


liMM 



f% «" 




cf\ / 



hlw 






•'ftiffii > I II— — I— »«»i< 



ir^ 



ir^^r^^f v«|5/ ?n?i 



I 



Mpi 



l»fcMbi.l .M l, IllJlM,. 



laiMHHMMHBaHf 

7 



*t?l' 





LIBRARY OF THE 


NEW YORK STATE COLLEGE 


OF HOME ECONOMICS 


CORNELL UNIVERSITY 


ITHACA, NEW YORK 




■•P>x®: 


m 


Hjl 


\M 


pP 


Gift of 


Miss Milicent Hathaway 





on 



:in 
1 00 

I CM 

so 

|0 

iCM 
= 0) 



u) oi 
f= 11 

>< 5" 




Cornell University 
Library 



The original of tliis book is in 
tine Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924003572850 



COMMON SENSE 



IN THE HOUSEHOLD; 



~A MAN17AI. 07 



PRACTICAL HOUSEWIFERY. 



BY 

MARION IIARLAND. 



" We go upon the practical .mode of teaching, Nicklety, When a boT tnom 
tUa out of book, he goea and duen it. ThiB la our syatcm. What do you think ]4 
It V—lfU-JuiUu aickUby. 



NEW YORK: 
8CRIBNER, ARMSTRONG k CO., 

1878. 



Ssi»r^ Moording to Act of OonsrraRS, In tb« yeer ISHi ^ 

CHA11U5P 'a';RTBWEK A CU, 
te tiia OfSoe of tho Libnn»j ^ Ccngiu» at Wai liMa^ea, 



Trow*s 

Printing and Bookbinding Co.j 

printers and nookbindkrs, 

so5~2j3 Rast 12/A St.f 

NEW YORK. 



•to MY 

rsixow-HocsEKEaFjffia, 

3B, EAST, SOUTH AKD WEST, TH«J TflirKS 
•gas GLEANINGS OF JMANY YEABfi. 
18 GOBDIAI.I.T 



INDEX OF GENEKAI. SUBJEC'IK 



PAQR 

Blanc-msmge 525 

Bread 269 

Brandied fniits 478 

Butter 263 

«akea 310 

Oandy 479 

Oanned fniita 473 

" yegetahlee^ 476 

Oatsups 193 

Clean, to, etc , 528 

Company 154 

Com bread 394 

•CreaniB 425 

iCustards 425 

Drinks 491 

Eggs 252 

Familiar talk 13 

Pish 50 

Fritters 415 

Fruit, ripe, for dessert 458 

Grame 160 

Gingerbread 343 

loes 443 

Ice-cream 443 

Idog 313 



pjai 

Jellies 425 

JellieSjfruit 47(1 

Meats 98 

Milk 263 

Nursery, the 532 

Pancakes 415 

Pickles 480 

Pies 349 

Preserves 473 

Pork 138 

Poultry 83 

Puddings 383 

Salads 300 

Sauces for fish and meat . 183 

' ' for puddings 419 

Servants 370 

Sick-room, the 503 

SheU-fish 70 

Soap ^.. 539 

Soups '. 37 

Sundries .' 538 

Tarts 363 

Vegetables 310 

YinegarSi flavored 193f 



lamillar ®alfe with my gt\Uw-'§f>ntiitttitx mi 



A TALK as woman to woman, in which each shall say, 
" 1 " and " you," and " my dear," and " you know," as free- 
ly as she pleases. It would not be a womanly chat if we 
omitted these forms of expression. An informal jirefacti to 
what I mean shall be an informal book — bijstJing with 
" I's " all the way through. If said bristles offond the 
r.ritic's touch, let him remember that this work is not pre- 
pared for the library, but for readers who trouble themselves 
little about editorial "we's"and the circumlocutions c: 
literary modesty. 

1 wish it were in my power to bring you, the prospec- 
tive owner of this volume, in person, as I do in spirit, to 
my side on this winter evening, when the bairnies are 
" folded like the flocks ; " the orders for breakfast com- 
mitted to the keeping of Bridget, or Gretchen, or Chloe, oi 
the plans for the morrow definitely laid in the bi-ain of that 
e^er-busy, but most independent of women, the housekeep- 
er who " does her own wor'k." I should perhaps summon te 
our cozy conference a very weary companion— weary of 
foot, of hand — and I should not deserve to be your confidant, 
did 1 not know how often heai-t-weary with discouragement ; 
with much producing of ways and means ; with a certain 
deispondent looking forward to the monotonous grinding of 
Jie household machine; to the certainty, proved by j)aKt ex 



14 COMMON SENSE. 

perience, that toilsome as lias been this day, the ocrro'w 
will prove yet more abundant in labors, in trials of strength, 
and nerves, and tempf^r. You would tell me what a dreary 
problem this of " woman's work that is never done " is to 
f«ur fainting soul how, try as you may and as you do to 
be systematic and diligent, something is always " turning 
up " in the treadmill to keep you on the sti'ain ; how you - 
often say to yourself, in bitterness of spii'it, that it is a mis- 
take of Christian civilization to ed^icate girls into a love of 
science and literature, and then condemn them to the routine 
of a domestic drudge. You do not see, you say, that years 
of scholastic training will make you a better cook, a better 
wife or mother. You have seen the time — nay, many times 
since assuming your present position — when you would have 
exchanged your knowledge of ancient and modern languages 
belles-lettres, music, and -natural science, for the skill of a 
competent kitchen-maid. The " learning how " is such hard 
woi'k ! Labor, too, uncheered by encouraging words from 
mature housewives, unsoftened by sympathy even from your 
husband, or your father or brother, or whoever may be the 
" one " to whom you " make home lovely." It may be that, 
In utter discouragement, you have made up your mind that 
you have " no talent for these things." 

I have before me now the picture of a wife, the mother 
of four children, who, many years ago, sickened me for all 
time with that phrase. In a slatternly morning-gown at 
four in the afternoon, leaning back in the laziest and most 
ragged of rocking-chairs, dust on the carpet, on the open 
piano, the mantel, the miri'ors, even on her own hai", she 
rubbed the soft palm of one haiid with the grimy fingers of 
the other, and with a sickly-sweet smile whined out — 

" Now, I am one of the kind who have no talent foi 
luch things ! The kitchen and house vvork and rsewiug are 
absolutely liatcfiJ to me — utterly uncongenial to my turn 



FAM1I.1AB TALK WITH MY KEAUEE. 15 

of uiind. The height of my earthly ambition is to have 
nolhiug to do but to paint on velvet all day ! " 

1 felt then, in the height of my indignant disgust, that 
there was propriety as well as wit in the " Spectator's " sug- 
gestion that every young woman should, before fijdng the 
wedding-day, be compelled by law to exhibit to inspectors a 
prescribed number of useful articles as her outfit — najiory 
bed-linen, clothing, etc., made by her own hands, and that 
it would be wise legislation which should add to these proofs 
of her fitness for her new sphere a practical knowledge of 
housework and cookery. 

If you have not what our Yankee grandmothers termed 
a " faculty " for housewifely — yet are obliged, as is the 
case with an immense majority of American women, to 
conduct the afiairs of a household, bills of fare included — 
there is tlie more reason for earnest application to your pro- 
fession. If the natural taste be dull, lay to it more strength 
of will — resolution born of a j ust sense of the importance 
of the knowledge and dexterity you would acquire. Do 
not scoff at the woi'd " ])rofession." Call not that commor 
and unclean which l^rovideuce- has designated as your life- 
work. I .speak ]iot now of the labors of the culinary de- 
paitruent alone ; but, without naming the other duties which 
voii and you only can perform, I do insist that upon method, 
skill, economy in the kitchen, depends so much of the well- 
being of the rest of the household, that it may safely be 
styled the root — the foundation of house\>ifery. I own it 
wovid be plea.santer in most cases, especially to those who 
have cultivated a taste for intellectual pursuits, to live 
above the heat and odor of this department. It must be 
very fine to have an efficient aide-de-camp in the person of 
ft French cook, or a competent sub-manager, or an accom- 
plished head-waiter who receives your orders for the day in 
Four boudoir or library, and executes the same with zca! 



16 COMHON SENSE. 

BTid discretion that leave you no room for anxiety orregml 
Sjch mistresses do not need cookery-books. The few — and 
it must be borne in mind that in this country these are very 
few — bom in an estate like this would not comprehend 
what I am now writing ; would not enter into the depths 
oi that compassionate yeaa-ning which moves me as I thiiJs 
of what I have known for myself in the earlier years of my 
wedded life, what I have heard and seen in other house- 
holds of honest iutention^brought to contempt ; of ill-di- 
rected toil ; of mortification, and the heavy, wearing sense 
of inferiority that puts the novice at such a woful disadvan- 
tage in a community of notable managers. 

There is no use in enlarging upon this point. You and 
I might compare experiences by the hour withoiit exhaust- 
ing our .store. 

" And then " — you sigh, with a sense of resentment 
upon you, however amiable your disposition, for the provo- 
cation is dire — " cookery-books and young housekeepers' 
assistants, and all that sort of thing, are such humbugs ! — 
dark lanterns at best — too often Will-o'-the-wisps." 

My dear, would you mind handing me the book which 
lies nearest you on the table there ? " Dickens ? " Of 
course. You will usually find something of liis in every 
room in this house— almost as surely as you will a Bible. 
It rests and refreshes one to pick him up at odd times, and 
dip in anywhere. Hear the bride, Mrs. John Kokesmith, 
upon our common grievance. 

" She was under the constant necessity of referring for 
ftdvice and support to a sage volume, entitled ' The Com- 
plete British Family Housewife,' which she would sit oon- 
Bulting, with her elbows \ipon the table, and lier ttmpleo in 
hor hands, like some perplexed enchantress poring over the 
Blcwk Art. This, principally because the Complete British 
Housewife, however sound a Briton at heart, was by n( 



KiMLIAR TALK WaTH MT REAPER. 17 

means an expert Briton at expressing herself with cleaniesi 
in the British tongue, and sometimes might have issued he- 
iiiectious to equal purpose in the Kaml<;hatkaii language.'' 

Don't interrupt me, my long-suifering sister ! There if 
more of the same sort to come. 

" There was likewise a coolness on the part of ' TLa 
Complete Bi'itish Housewife ' which Mrs. John Eokesmith 
found highly exasperating. She wpuld say, ' Take a sala- 
mander,' as if a general should command a piivate to catch 
a Tartar. Or, she would casually issue the order, ' Throw 
tu a handful ' of something entiiely unattainable. In 
these, the housewife's Jiiost glaring moments of unreason, 
Bella would shut her up and knock her on the table, apos- 
trophizing her with the compliment — ' you ARE a stupid 
old donkey ! Wliere am I to get it, do you think ? ' " 

When I took possession of my first real home, the pret 
tily furnished cottage to which I came as a bride, more fuH 
of hope and courage than if .1 had been wiser, five good 
friends presented me with as many cookery-books, each com 
plete, and all by ditierent compilers. One day's iuvestiga- 
tioxi of my vihiage convinced me that my lately-hii-ed 
servants knew no more about cookery than I did, or affected 
stiipidity to develop my capabilities or ignorance. Too 
proud to let them suspect tlie truth, or to have it bi-uited 
abroad as a topic for pitying or contemptuous gossip, I 
shut myself up with my " Complete Housewives," and in- 
clined seriously to the study of the same, comparing one 
with the other, and seeking to shape a theory which should 
grow into practice in accordance with the best avithority. 
I don't like to remember tliat time ! The question of dis- 
i^eeing ioctors, and the predicament of falling between 
t'To stools, are trivial perplexities when compared with mj 
itrife and failure. 

Swd the would-be studious countiyman to whom a mis 



18 COMMON SENSE. 

chievous acquaintance leni " Webster's Unabridged Dio 
tionavy " as an entertaining Toliunc, " I wi-astled, and ] 
wrastled, amd I wi'astled with it, but T couldn't get up mucli 
of an interest." 

My wrestling begat naught save pitiable confusion, hopfr 
teas distress, and a three-days' sick headache, during whic) 
season I am not sure that I did not darkly contemplate sui 
cide as the only sure escape from the meshes that girt me. 
At the height- -or depthr^of my despondency a friend, one 
with a great heart and steady brain, came to my rescue. 
Her cheerful laugh over my dilemma rings down to me 
now, through all these years, refresliingly as it then saluted 
my ears 

" Bless your innocent little heart ! " she cried, in her 
fresh, gay voice, " Ninety-nine out of a hundred cook-books 
■ire written by people who never kept house, and the hun- 
dredth by a good cook who yet doesn't know how to express 
herself to the enlightenment of others. Compile a receipt- 
book for yourself. Make haste slowly. Learn one thing at 
a time, and when you have mastered it, ' make a note on 
it,' as Captain Cuttle says — never lo.siiig sight of the ju-inci 
pie that you nwbst do it in mdcr to learn howP 

Then she opened to me her own ueatly-written " Man 
nal " — the work of years, recommending, as I seized it, 
that I should commence my novitiate with simple dishes. 

This was the beginning of the hoard of practical receipts 
I now offer for your inspection. For fifteen years, T have 
steadily pxirsxied this work, gleaning here and sifting there, 
and levying such remorseless contiibutions upon my friends 
that I fear the sight of my pajjcr and pencil has long since 
become a bugbear. For the kindness and courtesy which 
have been my invariable portion in this quest, I hereby re 
turn heart}- tjianks. For the encouraging words and good 
wislies that have evei answered the liint of my intention t< 



FiLMILIAK TALK WITH MY EKAI^JCK. ISl 

oollect what bad proved so valuable to me iiilo a jiriuted 
volume, I declaie myself to be yet m.ofe a debtor. I da 
uot claim for my conipeud tlie proud pre-emincuce of tk« 
'i Complete American Housewife." It is no boastful systeic 
of " Cookery Taught in Twelve Lessons." And I should 
w rite myself down a knave or a fool, were I to assert thai 
a raw cook or ignorant mistress can, by half-a-day's study 
of my collection, equal Soyer or Blot, or even approximate 
the art of a hsJf-taught scullion. 

We may as well start from the riglit point, if we hope 
to continue friends. You must learn the rudiments of the 
ai't for yourf»elf. Practice, and practice alone, will teach 
you certain fssontials. The management of the ovens, the 
requisite th'ckness of boiliag custards, the right shade of 
brown upon bread and roasted meats — these and dozens of 
other details are hints which cAnnot be imparted by written 
or oral instructions. But, once learned, they are never for- 
gotten, and henceforward your fate is in your own hands. 
You are mistress of yourself, though servants leave. Havp 
faith in your own abilities. You wiU be a better cook for 
the mental training you have received at school and from 
books. Brains tell everyT\rhere, to say notliing of intel- 
ligent observation, just judgment, a faithful memoiy, and 
orderly habits. Consider that you have a profession, as J 
Baid just now, and resolve to understand it in all its branches. 
My book is designed to help you. I believe it will, if for 
BO other reason, because it has been a faithful guide to my- 
self — a reference beyond value in seasons of doubt and need. 
I have brought every receipt to the test of common sens* 
Hid experience. Those which I have not tried myself were 
abtained from reliable housewives — the best 1 know. 1 
have enjoyed the task heartily, and from first to laat the 
persuasion has nover left mo that I was engaged in a good 
cause. Throughout I have had you, my dear sister, pte-ieul 



iO COMMON SENSE 

before me, ^vitL the little plait between your brows, tlit 
wistful look about eye aud mouth that reveal to me, at 
words could not, your desire to " do your best." 

" In a humble home, and in a humble way," I hear you 
»dd, perhaj)s : you " are not ambitious ; " you " only want 
to help John, and to make him aud the cluldien comfortablfi 
and happy." 

Heaven reward your honest, loyal endeavors ! Would 
you mind if I were to whisper a word in your car I don't 
care to have progressive people hear ? — although progress 
is a grand thing when it takes the light direction. My 
dear, John and the children, and the humble home, make 
your sphere for the present, you .say. Be sure you fill it — 
JWl I ' before you seek one wider and liigher. Tliere is no 
better receipt between these covers than that. Leave tlio 
rest to God. Everybody knows those four Hues of George 
Herbert's, which ought to be framed and hung up iu the 
work-room of every house : — 

" A servant, with this clause, 
Makes drudgery divine ; 
Who sweeps a room as for Thy laws 
Makes that and th' action fine.'' 

I wonder if the sainted poet knows — in that land where 
drudgery is one of the rough places forever overpast, and 
work is unmingled blessing — to how many sad and striving 
hearts those words have broaight peace? 

And bv way of helping John, not only by saving money 
and preparing palatable aud wholesome dishes for his table, 
but by sparing the wife he lo^'es many needless steps and 
much hvu-tful care, will you heed a homely hint or two re- 
ktive to the practice of your art? Study method, and 
»uonomy of time and strength, no less than of materials 
r take it for granted that you are too intelligent to share ia 
the vulgar prtjudico against labor-saving machines, i 



FAiOLLiK TaiK WITH MY EEADEB. 2i 

rtdsin aeeder costs a triflo in coinpaiison. witli tlie time and 
patioiice required to stone the fniit m the old way. A gooa 
egg-beater is a treasure. So with farina-kottles, syllabub 
ckurns, apple-corers, potato-peelers and slicers, clothes- 
wringers and sprinklers, and the like. Most of these are 
made of tin — are therefore cheap and easily kept clean. 
Let «ich article have its own place i)\ the closet and kit 
ohen, to which restore it so soon as you have done using it. 
Before undertaking the preparation of any dish, read ovei 
the receipt carefully, vmless you are thoroughly familiar 
with the manufaeturfc of it. Many excellent housewives 
have a fashion of saying loftily, when asked how such things 
*re made — " I carry all my receipts in my head. I neve* 
wrote out one in my life. " 

And you, if timid and self-distrustful, ai'e smitten with 
shame, keep yo\ir receipt-book out of sight, and cram your 
memory with ingredients and measures, times and weights, 
for fear Mrs. Notable should susj)ect you of rawness and 
anefiiciency. Whereas the truth is, that if you liavoaniind 
RTorthy of the name, its i)owers are too valuable to be laden 
«d.th such details. Master the general principles, as I said 
just now, and for particulars look to your marching-orders. 
Having refreshed your memory by this reference, ])ick out 
from your household .stores, and set in convenient order, 
within reach of your baud, everything you will need in 
maJ^ing ready the particidar comi)ouud under consideration. 
Then take j'our stand in the midst — or sit, if you can. It 
is common sense — oftentimes a jiious duty, to take judicious 
.Tare of your physical health. I lay it down as a safe and im 
pp.rative rule for kitchen use — Never stand when you can 
Jo yowr work as well while sitting. If I could have John's 
»ar for a minute, I would tell him that which would lead 
him to ^xatch you and exercise wholesome authority in thii 
regard. 



TSa COMMON SENSE. 

Next, j)re{jare each ingredient for mixing, thai the broad, 
cake, pudding, soup, or ragout may not be delayed wher 
half finished because the flour is not sifted, or the " shorton 
ing " warmed, the sugar and Ijutter are not creamed, the 
meat not cat up, or the herbs not minced. Don't begin 
until you are ready ; then go steadily forward, " without, 
haste, without rest," and think of what- you are doing. 

" Dickens again ? '■ 

Why not, since there is no more genial and pertinenl 
philosopher of common life and every-day subjects ? To 
quote, thou : — 

"It was a maxim of Captain Swosser's," said Mrs, 
Badger, " speaking in his figurative, naval manner, that 
when you make pitch hot, you cannot make it too hot, and 
that If you have only to swab a plank, you should swab it 
as if Davy Jones were after you. It appears to me that this 
maxim is appKcable to the medical as well as the nautical 
profession." 

" To all professions 1 " observed Mr. Badger. " It was 
admirably said by Captain Swossor ; beautifully said ! " 

But it will sometimes happen that when you have heated 
your pitch, or swabbed your deck, or made your pudding 
accoi'ding to the lights set before you, the result is a failure. 
This is especially apt to occur in a maiden effort. You 
have wasted materials and time, and suffered, moi-eover, 
acut« demoializatiou — are enwrapped in a wet blanket ol 
discouragement, instead of the seemly robe of coraplaoency. 
Yet no part of the culinary education is more useful, if 
turned to proper account, than this V3ry discipline of failure. 
It is a stepping- stone to excellence — sharp, it is true, bui 
often sure. You have learned how not to do it right, vvhiofc 
is the next thing to siiccess. It is pretty certain that yoi; 
will avoid, in your second essay, the rock 'ipon which you 
have split this tijxe. And, after all, there are few failunn 



FAMILIAE TALK WITH MY KEADEE. iiO 

wMch are utter and irremediable. Scorched soups ami 
custards, sour bread, biscuit yellow with soda, and caku 
heavy as lead, come under the head of " hopeless." Thej 
MB absolutely unfit to be set before civilized beings and 
educated stomachs. Shoidd such mishaps occur, lock the 
memory of the attempt in your own bosom, and do not vex 
or amuse John and your guests with the narration, stiU lesa 
with visible proof of the calamity. Many a partial failure 
would pass unobserved but for the clouded brow and earnest 
apologies of the hostess. Do not apologize except at the 
last gasp ! If there is but one chance in ten that a single 
person present may not discover the deficiency which has 
changed all food on the table to dust and gravel-stones ro 
you, trust to the one chance, and carry jfi' the mattar 
bravely. You ^v^ll be astonished to find, if you keep your 
wits about you how often even your husband will remain 
in blissful ignorance that aught has gone wrong, if you do 
not tell him. You know ro v/ell what should have been the 
product of your labor that you exaggerate the justice of 
others' perceptions. Console yourself, furthermore, with 
the reflection that yours is not the first failure upon record, 
nor the million-and-first, and that there wiU be as many to- 
morrows as there have been yesterdays. 

Don't add to a trifling contretemps the real discomfort 
of a discontented or fretful wife. Say blithely, if John 
not* your misfortune—" I hope to do better another time," 
and do not be satisfied until you have redeemed youi; 
pledge. Experience and your quick wit will soon teach you 
how to avert impending evils of this nature, how to snatch 
your preparations from immiuent destruction, and, by in- 
genious corre stives or concealments, to make them present- 
able, lliese you wiU soon learn for yourself if you keep 
before you the truism I have already written, to wit, th&i 
few failures are beyond repair. 



&i COMMON 8KN8E 

Never try experiments for the benefit of invited gueBts 
nor, when John is at home, risk the success of your meai 
upon a new dish. Have something wliich you know he 
can eat, and introduce experiments as by-play. But do not 
be too sliy of innovations in the sliape of untried dishes. 
Variety is not only pleasant, but healthful. The leas*, 
pampered palate will weary of stereotyped bills of fare. It 
Lg an idea which should have been exploded long ago, that 
plain roast, boiled, and fried, on Monday, Tuesday, Wednes- 
day, and Thursday, cod-fish on Friday, with pork-and-beans 
every Saturday, are means of grace, because economical 
And with this should have vanished the prejudice against 
warmed-over meals — or rechauffes, as our French friends 
term them. I have tried, in the following pages, to set 
forth the attractions of these, their claims to your attention 
as being savory, economical, nourishing, and often elegant. 
In preparing these acceptably, everything depends upon 
your own taste and skill. Season with judgment, cook 
just enough and not a minute too long, and dish nicely. 
The recommendation of the eye to the palate is a point no 
cook can aflbrd to disregard. If you can offer an unex- 
pected visitor notliing better than bread-and-butter and cold 
ham, he will enjoy the luncheon twice as much if the bread 
be sliced thinly and evenly, spread smoothly, each slice 
folded in the middle upon the buttered surface, and piled 
symmetrically ; if the ham be also cut tlvin, scarcely thicker 
than a wafer, and garnished with parsley, cresses, or curled 
lettuce. Set on mustard and pickles ; let the table-cloth 
and napkin be white and glossy ; the glass clear, and plate 
shining clean ; and add to these accessories to comfort a 
bright welcome, and, my word for it, you need fear no dis- 
satisfaction on his part, however epicurean may be hi* 
testes. Should your cupboard be bare of aught more sub 
stAiitial than crackers and cheese, do not yiel 1 to disr»ay 



FAMILIA.K TALK WriH MY EKADER. 25 

.i[)lit the crackers (if siilittable), toast the inside liglitly, 
Slid butter while hot. Grate your cheese into a i)Owdery 
mound, garnishing the edges of the plate. If you have no 
beverage except water to set before him, let this be cool, 
Bud pour it out for him yourself, into an irreproachable 
glass. A dirty table-cloth, a smeared goblet, or a sticky 
plate, will spoil the most luxurious feast. A table well set 
is half-spread. 

I have not said one-tentb of that which is pressing upon 
my heart and mind, yet 1 fear you may think me trite and 
tedious. One suggestion more, and we will proceed to the 
details of business. 

I believe that, so far as care can avail in securing sunh 
H res^ilt, my receipts are accurate. But in the matter of 
Nfcasofiing and other minor details, consult your judgment 
and John's taste. Take this liberty with whatever receipt 
fou think you can improve. If I chance to find in youi 
work-basket, or upon the kitchen dresser, a well-thimibec 
copy of my beloved " Common Sense," with copious anno 
tations in the margin, I shall, so far from feeling wounded, 
be flatt'jea in having so diligent a student, and, with yoni 
permif.; ion, shall engraft the most happy suggestions upon 
the second edition. 

For the speedy issue of which, the petitioner doth hum 

bly pray. 

Marion ILuii,AHi> 
2 



KOl'S. 

IH looxlBg ovei this book the roader will notice certain reoeipti 
jiiirked thus — >J«. I do not claim for these greater merit than should 
of right be accorded to many others. I merely wish to call the at- 
tention of the novice to them as certainly safe, and for the most 
part simple. Every one thus marked hae been tried by myself; 
luoat of them are in fi-equent, some in daily use, in my own family. 

My reason for thus singling out comparatively a small number of 
receipts from the rest, is the recollection of my own perplexities — 
che loss of time and patience to which I have been subjected in tha 
examination of a new cookery-book, with am eye to immediate unn 
of the directions laid dovsm for various dishes. I have often ami 
vainly wished for a finger-board to guide me in my search for thosi 
which were easy and sure, and which would result satisf aotorUj . 
Tills sort of directory I have endeavored to supply, taking care, 
however, to inform the reader in advance that, bo far an I knon 
there is not an unsafe receipt in the whole work. 

Of course it was not necessary or expedient to append the aAtov 
sign to piaiu " roast and boiled," which are in common tiae every 



SOUPis 

The case of yoitr soup should always b'j mcooked meai 
To this may be added, if you like, cracked bones of cooked 
game, or of underdone beef or mutton ; but for flavor and 
nourishment, depend upon the juices of the meat which 
was put in raw. Cut this into small pieces, and beat the 
bone until it is fractured at every inch of its length. Put 
Ihem on in cold water, without salt, and heat very slowly. 
Do not boil fast at any stage of the operation. Keep the 
pot covered, and do not add the salt until the meat is thor- 
oughly done, as it has a tendency to harden the fibres, and 
restrain the flow of the juices. Strain — always through a 
cullender, after which clear soups should be filtered througi- 
a hair-sieve or coarse bobbinet lace. The bag should not. 
be squeezed. 

It is slovenly to leave rags of meat, husks of vegetables 
and bits of bone in the tureen. Do not uncover until you 
are ready to ladle out the soup. Do this neatly and quickly, 
having your soup-plates heated beforehand. 

Most soups are better the second day than the first, un- 
less they are warmed over too quickly or left too long upon 
the fire after they are hot. In the one case they are apt 
to scorch; in the other they become insipid. 



OOMMON 6ENBB. 



VEGETABLE SOUPS. 
Green Pea. (No. !.)»}« 

4 lbs. beef — cut into small pieces. 
^ jjeck of green peas. 

1 gallon water. 

Boil the empty pods of the peas in the water one hoijt 
before putting in the beef. Strain them oait, add the beef, 
and boil slowly for an hour and a half longer. Half an hour 
before serving, add the shelled peas ; and twenty minutes 
later, half a cup of rice-flour, with salt and pepper. A 
little chopped parsley is an improvement. After adding 
the rice-flour, stir frequently, to prevent scorching. Strain 
Into a hot tureen. 

Gkeen Pea. (No. 2.) 

2 qts. of veal or beef broth. 
^ teaspoonful sugar. 

1 tablesi)oonful butter. 
1 qt. shelled peas. 

Bring the broth to a boil ; put in the peas, and boU for 
twenty minutes. Add the sugar, and a bunch of green 
mint. BoU a quarter of an hour more, and stir in the 
butter, with pepper and salt, if the broth be not sufficiently 
Baited already. Strain before serving, and send to table with 
nnall squares of toasted bread floating upon the top. 

Split Pea {dried), i^ 
1 gallon water. 

1 qt. split p^eas, which have been soaked over night, 
1 lb. salt pork, cut into bits an inch square, 
lib. beef, « « « 



VEGETABLE SOUPS. 29 

Put over the fire, and boil slowly for two hours, or until 
the quantity of liquor does not exceed two qixarts. Poui 
into a cu -lender, and press the peas through it with a wooden 
or silver spoon. Return the soup to the pot, adding a small 
hesid of celery, chopped up, a little parsley, or, if preferred, 
Bununer savory or sweet marjoram. Have ready three or 
four slices of bread (stale) which have been fried in butter 
until they are brown ; cut into slices and scatter them upon 
the surface of the soup after it is poui-ed into the tureen. 

Pea and Tomato. »J« 

This is made according to either of the foregoing receipts, 
in summer with green — in winter with dried and split 
peas. Just before straining the soup, add a quart of toma- 
toes, which have already been stewed soft ; let the whole 
come to a good boil, and strain as above directed. If the 
stewed tomato be watery, strain off the superfluous liqiiid 
before pouring iuto the pea soup, or it will be too thin. 

Bean (dried). 4* 

The beans used for this purpose may be the ordinary 
kidney, the rice or field bean, or, best of all, the French 
mock-turtle soup bean. Soak a quart of these over night 
in soft lukewarm water ; put them over the fire next morn- 
ing, with one gallon of cold water and about two pounds of 
salt pork. Boil slowly for three hours, keeping the pot 
well covered ; shred into it a head of celery, add pepper — 
cayenne, if preferred — simmer half an hour longer, strain 
through a cullender, and serve, with slices of lemon passed 
to each guest. 

Mock-turtle beans, treated in this way, yield a very fail 
gubetitute for the fine calf 's-head soup known by the same 
oame. 



80 common sense. 

Bean and Cokn. »J* 

n lis is a ■winter soup, aad is made of white beans pr& 
pared according to the foregoing receipt, but with the addi^ 
tion of a quai-t of dried or canned com. If the former ii 
used — and the Shaker sweet com is nearly as good for the 
purpose as the more expensive canned green com — soak it 
overnight in warm water — changing this early in the morn- 
ing, and pouring on more warm water, barely enough to 
cover the com, and keeping it in a close vessel until ready 
to put on the beans. Let ail boU together, with pork as in 
the bean soup proper. Strain out as usual. Some persona 
have a habit of neglecting the use of the cullender in mak- 
ing bean soup, and serving it like stewed beans which have 
been imperfectly drained. The practice is both slovenly 
and unwholesome, since the husks of the cereal are thus im- 
posed upon the digestive organs of the eater, with no addi- 
tional nutriment. To the beans and com may be added a 
pint of stewed tomato, if desired. 

Asparagus ( White soup), 

3 lbs. veal. The knuckle is best. 

3 bunches asparagus, as well bleached as you can 

procure. 
1 gallon water. 



Cut off the hard green stem, and put half of the tender 
heads of the asparagus into the water with the neat. Boil 
in a closely covered pot for three hours, until the meat ia 
in rags and the asparagus dissolved. Strain the liquor and 
return to the pot, with the remaining half of the asparagua 
heads. Let this boil for twenty minutes more, and add, be- 
fore taking up, a cup of sweet milTr (cream is better) in 
which has been stirred a tablespoonful of rice-flour, arrow- 
root, or corn-starch. When it has fairly boiled up, servf 



VKQETAllLE BOUPB. 31 

without farther straining, with small squares of toast in th« 
tureen. Season with salt and pepiier. 

AsFARAOus ( Green «ortp). 

3 lbs. veal — cut into small pieces. 

^ lb. salt pork. 

3 bunches asparagus. 

1 gallon water. 

Cit I j6 entire stalk of thtj asparagus into pieces an inch 
long, and rlien the meat has boOed one hoiu-, add half of the 
vegetable to the liquor in the pot. Boil two hours longer 
and straii , pressing the asparagus pulp very hard to extract 
till the gri.c^n coloring. Add the other half of the aspara- 
gus — (the heads only, which should be kept in cold water 
ontil you are ready for them), and boil twenty minutes more, 
rhen proceed as with the asparagus white soup, omitting 
the milk, thickening, and- salt. The pork will supply the 
tsit«r seasoning. 

Tomato ( Winter sowp). tj* 

3 lbs. beef. 

1 qt. canned tomatoes, 

1 gallon water. 

Let tLe meat and water boil for two hours, until the 
liquid is reduced to little more than two quarts. Then 
stir in the tomatoes, and stew all slowly for three-quaiten 
of an hour longer. Season to taste, strain, and serve. 

TouATO (jiSWnmer aovp), •{« 

2^ lbs. veal, or lamb. 

1 gallon water. 

2 qts. fresh tomatoes, peeled and cut up fine. 



OZ COMMON SENSE. 

Boil the meat to shreds and the water down to t-wo 
quarts. Strain the liquor, put in the tomatoes, stirring 
them very hard that they may dissolve thoroughly ; boil 
half an hour. Season mth parsley or any other green herb 
you may prefer, pepper, and salt. Strain again, and stir in 
a tablespoonful of butter, with a teaspoonful of white sugar, 
before pouring into the tureen. 

This soup is more palatable still if made with the breth 
in which chickens were boiled for yesterday's dinner. 

Turnip. • 

Knuckle of veal, well cracked. 
5 qts. water. 

Cover closely and stew gently for four hours, the day 
before tlie soup is wanted. On tlie morrow, skim off the 
fat and warm the stock gradually to a boil. Have ready 
an onion and six large winter or a dozen small summei 
turnips, sweet marjoram or thyme minced very finely. Pul 
these into the soup and let them simmer together for an 
hour. Strain ; return to the fire and add a cup of milk — 
in which has been stirred a tablespoonful of rice-flour or 
pther thickening — and a tablespoonful of butter. Season 
with salt and pepper, let it boil up once, Stirling all the 
time, as is necessary in all soups where milk is added a1 
the last, and remove instantly, or it will scorch. 

Potato. 
A dozen large mealy potatoes, 

2 onions. 

1 lb. salt pork. 

3 qts. water. 

Boil the pork in the clear water for an hour and a halfj 
than take it out. Have ready the potatoes, whiclij^ aftei 



VEGETABLE BOUPB. 38 

oeir-g peeled and sliced, should lie in cold water for half an 
hour. Throw them into the j)ot, with the chopped onion. 
Cover and boil three-quarters of an hour, stirring often 
Beat in a large tablespoonful of butter, and a cup of cream 
or inilV in which has been mixed a well-beaten egg. Add 
ihe latter ingredients carefully, a little at a time ; stir while 
it heats to a final boil, and then serve. 

This is a cheap and wholesome dish, and more palatable 
■•ban one would suppose from reading the receipt. 

( Gkaham Soup. »J« j 
3 onions. 

3 carrots. 

4 turnips. 

1 small cabbage. 

1 bunch celery. 

1 pt. stewed tomatoes. 

Chop all the vegetables, except the tomatoes and cablage, 
Very finely, and set them over the fire with rather over 
three quarts of water. They should simmer gently for half 
an hour, at the end of which time the cabbage must be added, 
having previously been parboiled and chopped up. In fif- 
teen minutes more put in the tomatoes and a bunch of sweei 
herbs, and give all a lively boil of twenty minutes. Rub 
through a cullender, return the soup to the fire, stir in a 
good tablespoonful of butter, pepper, and salt, half a cup of 
cream if you have it, tliickened with corn-starch ; let it boi 
np, and it is ready for the table. 

OcHKA, OR Gumbo. 
Oohra, or okra, is a vegetable little known except in the 
far South, where it is cultivated in large quantities an-l is 
very popular. A favorite soup is prepared from it iv thf 
following manner : — 
2* 



34 COMMON SWtBE. 

2 qts. of ochras, sliced thin. 

1 qt. of tomatoes, also sliced. 
4 tablespoonfuls of butter. 

2 lbs. of beef, cut into small pieces. 

^ lb. ham or pickled pork, also cut up. 

Put the meat and ochras together in a pot with a quart 
of cold water — just enough to cover them — and let them 
Stew for an hour. Then add the tomatoes and Wo quarts 
of boiling water — more if the liquid in the pot has boiled 
away so as to expose the meat and vegetables. Boil three- 
quaiters of an hour longer, skimming often with a silver 
tipoou. When the contents of the vessel are boiled to pieces, 
j)ut in the butter, with cayenne pepper and salt, if the ham 
has not seasoned it sufficiently. Strain and send up with 
«quari8 of light, crisp toast floating upon it. 

Corn. »J« 

1 large fowl, cut into eight pieces. 
I dozen ears green com. 

Boil the chicken in a gallon of water until tender^if 
tough, the boiling must be slow and long. Then cut the 
sorn froiD ^he cob and put into the pot, and stew an hour 
longer — still gently. Remove the chicken with a cupful 
of the liquid, if you wish to make other use of the meat. 
Set tliis aside, season the com-soup with pepper, salt, and 
parsley; thicken with rice or wheat flour, boil up once, 
and serve without straining, if the com be young and tender: 

A tolerable fricassee may be made of the chicken, unless 
(t has boiled to rags, by beating up an egg and a tables2)00u- 
fill of butter, adding this to the cupful of reserved liquor 
from which the com must be strained. Boil this for a 
moment, thicken with flour, throw in a little chopped pars- 
*y, pepper, ani salt, pour, while scalding, over the chickei^ 



MEAT SOUPS. 35 

w}iijh you have arranged in a dish ; garnish with circular 
ilicea of hard-boiled eggs and curled parsley. 



. ♦ 



MEAT SO TIPS. 
Beef Soup (a la Jkdienne). ^ 
6 lbs. of lean beef. The shin is a good piece for this pur- 
pose. Have the bones well cracked, carefully extracting 
the marrow, every bit of which should be put into the 
soup. 
6 qts. of water. 

The stock must be prepared the day before the soup is 
needed. Put the beef, bones and all, with the water in a 
close vessel, and set it where it will heat gradually. Let it 
boil very slowly for six hours at least, only uncovering the 
pot once in a great while to see if there is danger of the 
water sinking too rapidly. Should this be the case, replen- 
ish with boiling water, taking care not to put in too much. 
During the seventh hour, take off the soup and set it away, 
still closely covered, until next morning. About an hour 
before dinner, take out the meat, which you can use for 
mince-meat, if you wish ; remove the cake of fat from the 
surface of the stock, set the soup over the fire, and throw in 
a little salt to bring up the scum. When this has been 
tkiramed carefully off, put in your vegetables. These should 
be-- - 

2 carrots. 

3 turnips. 

Half a head of white cabbage. 

1 pt. green corn — or dried Shaker com, Boaked 

over night. 
1 head celery. 
1 qt. ioxaaiaea. 



86 COMMON SENSE. 

These slioiilJ be prepared for the soup by slicing them 
very small, and stewing them in barely enoiigh water to 
cover them, until they break to pieces. Cook the cabbage 
by itself in two waters — throwing the first away. The onlj 
exception to the general dissolution, is in the case of a single 
carrot, which should likewise be cooked alone and whole, 
untU thoroughly done, and set aside to cool, when the rest 
of the vegetables, with the water in which they were boiled, 
are added to the spup. Return the pot to the tire with the 
vegetables and stock, and boil slowly for half an hour from 
the time ebullition actually begins. Strain without pressing, 
only shaking and lightly stirring the contents of the cul- 
lender. The vegetables having been added with all theii 
juices already cooked, much boiling and squeezing are not 
needed, and only make the soup cloudy. Cut the reserved 
carrot into dice and drop into the clear liquor after it is in 
the tureen, — also, if you like, a handful of a ermiceUi, or 
jiacaroni which has been boiled tender in clear water. 

The seasoning of this excellent soup is a matter of taste. 
Some use only salt and white pepper. Others like witli 
this a few blades of mace, and boil in the stock a handful 
of sweet herbs. And others fancy that, in addition to 
these, a glass of brown sherry imparts a flavor that renders 
it peculiarly acceptable to most palates. Send to table very 
hot, and have the soup-plates likewise heated. 

Weal Soup with Macaroni. »J*) 

3 lbs. of veal knuckle or scrag, with the bones 

broken and meat cut up. 
3 qts. water. 
i lb. Italian macaroni. 

Boil the meat alone in the water for nearly three hours, 
tmiil it is reduced to shreds ; and the macaroni until ten 



MBAT BOnPB. 3^ 

der, in enougli water to cover it, in a vessel by itself. Tli« 
pieces should not be more than an inch in length. Add a 
little butter to the macaroni when nearly done. Strain th« 
meat out of the soup, season to your taste, put in the ma 
caroni, and the water in which it was boiled ; let it boil up, 
*nd serve. 

"Sou can make macaroni soup of this by boiling a pound, 
instead of a quarter of a pound, in the second vessel, and 
adding the above qnantity of veal broth. In this case, send 
on with it a plate of grated cheese, that those who cannot 
relish macaroni without this accompaniment may put it 
into their soup. Take care that the macaroni is of uniform 
length, not too long, and that it does not break while stew- 
ing. Add butter in proportion to the increased quantity of 
macaroni. >^ 

^^EEF Soup {bmon).) 

3 lbs. beef cut into strips. 
3 onions. 
3 qts. water. 

Put beef and water into the saucepan and boil for one 
hour. Meanwhile, slice the onions and fi-y them in butter 
to a light brown. Drop into the pot with a teaspoonful ol 
cloves, half as much pepper, same quantity of mace as pep- 
per, a pinch of allspice, and a teaspoonful of essence of celery, 
if you cannot get a head of fresh celery ; also half a tear 
spoonful of powdered savory or sweet maijoram, and a tea- 
spoonful of Worcestershire sauce. Stew all for two hours 
more, or untU the beef has boiled to pieces. Strain the 
soup and return to the fire. Salt to taste, and just before 
taking it off, pour in a glass of brown sherry or Madeira 
irina. 



88 COMMON SENSE. • 

MuTTOjf OB Lamb Brotu. »J« 

4 lbs. mutton or lamb — lean — cut into small pieces. 
1 gallon water. 
^ teao ipful rice. 

Boil tl.e unsuilted meat for two Lours, slowly, in a coyered 
vessel. Soak the rice in enough warm water to cover it, 
md at the end of this time idd it, water and all, to the boil- 
ing soup. Cook an hour longer, stirring watchfully from 
time to time, lest the rice should settle and adhere to the 
bottom of the pot. Beat an egg to a froth and stir into a 
3up of cold milk, into which has been rubbed smoothly a 
tablespoonful rice or wheat flour. Mix with this, a little at 
at a time, some of the scalding liquor, vmtU the egg is so fai 
cooked that there is no danger of curdling in the soup. 
Pour into the pot, when you have taken out the meat, 
season with parsley, thyme, pepper, and salt. Boil up fairly, 
and serve. If allowed to stand on the fire, it is apt to bum. 

This soup may be made from the liquor in which a leg 
of mutton has been boiled, provided too much salt was not 
put in with it. It is especially good when the stock is 
chicken broth. For the sick it is palatable and nutritious 
with the rice left in. When strained it makes a nice white 
table soup, and is usually relished by all. 

Vermicelli Soup. »{« 

4 lbs. lamb, from which every particle of fat has 

been removed. 
1 lb. veal. 

A slice of corned ham. 
6 qts. water. 

Cut up the meat, cover it with a quart of water, and 
let it back on the range to heat very gradually, keeping it 
oovered closelj'. At the end of an hour, add four quarti 



MEAl SOUPS. 33 

boiling water, and cook until the meat is in shreds. Season 
with salt, sweet herbs, a chopped shallot, two teaspoonfuls 
Worcestershire sauce, and when these have boiled in the 
soup for ten minutes, strain and return to the fire. Have 
ready about a thii'd of a pound of vermicelli (or macaroni), 
which has been boiled tender in clear water. Add this ; 
boil vip once, and pour out. 

In all receipts in which ham is mentioned as seasoning, 
reference is made to corned, not smoked pork. The smoke 
imparts an undisguisab'le, and, to many, an unpleasant 
flavor, especially to delicate soups and ragouts. 

Mock-Turtle or Calf's Head Soup. •J^ 

1 large calf's head, well cleaned and washed. 
4 pig's feet, « " « « 

This soup should always be prepared the day before it 
is to be served up. Lay the head and feet in the bottom of 
a large pot, and cover with a gallon of water. Let it boil 
"ihree hours, or until the flesh will slip easily from the 
bones. Take out the head, leaving in the- feet, and allow 
these to boil steadily while you cut the meat from the 
head. Select with care enough of the fatty portions which 
lie on the top of the head and the cheeks to fill a tea-cup, 
and set them aside to cool. Remove the brains to a saucer 
and also set aside. Chop the rest ■ of the meat with the 
tongue very fine, season with salt, pepper, powdered mar- 
joram and thyme, a teaspoonful of cloves, the same of mace, 
half as much allspice, and a grated nutmeg, and return to 
the pot. When the flesh falls from the bones of the pig's 
feet, take o-it the latter, leaving in the gelatinous meat, 
Let all boil together slowly, without removing the cover 
for two hours more ; take the soup from the fii-e and set H 
a'way until the next day. An hour before dinner, sot on 



iO COMMON SENSE. 

the stock to warm. Wlien it boils strain carefully, and 
drop in the meat you have reserved, which, when cold, 
should be cut into small squares. Have these all ready ax 
well as the force-meat balls. To prepare these, rub the 
yolks of five hard-boiled eggs to a paste in a Wedgewood 
mortar, or in a bowl, with the back of a silver tablespoon, 
adding gradually the brains to moisten them, also a little 
butter and salt. Mix with these two eggs beaten very 
light, flour your bands, and make this paste into balls about 
the size of a pigeon's egg. Throw them into the soup five 
minutes before you take it off the fire ; Stir in a largv' 
tablespoonful of browned flour rubbed smooth in a little 
cold water, let it boil up, and finish the seasoning by tho 
addition of a glass and a half of good wine — sherry or Ma • 
deira — and the juice of a lemon. It shoiild not boil morn 
than half an hour on the second day. Serve with slicec\ 
lemon. Some lay the slices upon the top of the soup, 
but the better plan is to pass to the guests a smiil dish 
containing these. 

This has been well called the " king of soups," and ia 
actually more delicious than the real turtle soup. It is 
hoped no one will be afraid to undertake the preparation 
of it on account of the apparently tedious and delicate mode 
I have described. If the directions be closely followed, the 
result is sure to be satisfactory, and the task is really much 
less troublesome than it appears to be. 

GiBLET Soup. 

Feet, neck, pinions, and giblets of three chickens, 

or of two ducks or two geese. 
l\ lb. veal. 
^ lb. ham. 
3 qts. water. 
Crack the bones into small pieces, chop the ^Ueta (not 



MEAT BOTJI'8. i\ 

rery fine) and cut the meat into strips. Put all togelhei 
over the fire, with a bunch of sweet hetbs and a pinch oi 
allspice. Ste-w slowly for two hours. Tick out the gibleti 
with a skimmer or fork, and set them aside in a pan -wheif 
they will keep warm. Take up a teacupful of the hot soup 
and stir into this a large tablespoonful of flour which has beer 
wet with cold water and rubbed to a smooth paste ; then, 
two tablespoonfuls of butter. Return to the pot and boil 
for fifteen minutes ; season at the last with a glass of brown 
sherry and a tablespoonful of tomato or walnut catsup. A 
little Worcestershire sauce is an improvement. Finally, 
add the giblets, and serve. 

(Brown Gbavy Soup.) 

3 lbs. beef. 

] caiTot. 

1 tiiniip. 

1 head of celery. 

6 onions, if small button-onions- —2, if large. 

3| qts. water. 

Have ready some nice drippiag in a frying-pan. Slioa 
the onions and fry them brown. Take them out and sel 
them by in a covered pan to keep warm. Cut the beef into 
bits an inch long and half an inch thick, and fry them brown 
also, turning frequently lest they should bum. Chop the 
vegetables and put them with the meat and onions into a 
covered pot. Pour on the water and let all stew together 
for two hours. Then throw in salt and pepper and boil one 
hour longer, skimming very carefully. Strain ; put back 
over the fire ; boU up once more to make the liquid per- 
fectly clear, skim, and add a handful of vermicelli that has 
been boiled separately and drained dry. The safest plan U 
to put in the vermicelli after the soup is poured into the 



t2 COMMON SENHJii. 

tiireeu, Dc not stir before it goes to table. The conteiiU 
of the tureen should be clear as amber. Some add half a 
glass of pale sherry. This is a fine show soup, and ver) 
popular. 

Veal and Saoo Soup. 

2} lbs. veal. 

J- lb. pearl sago. 

1 pt. mUk. 

4 eggs. 

3 qts. water. 

Put on the veal and water — the meat chopped finely — 
and boil for two hours until the liquid is reduced to abou< 
one-half the original quantity. Strain out the shreds of 
meat through a coarse cloth, and put the soup again over 
the fire. Meanwhile the sago should be washed in several 
waters, and soaked half an hour in warm water enough to 
cover it. Stir it into the strained broth and boil — stirring 
very often to prevent lumping or scorching — ^half an hour 
more. Heat the milk almost to boiling ; beat the yolks of 
the eggs very light ; mix with the milk gradually, as in 
making boiled custard, and pom" — stiixing all the while — 
into the soup. Season with pepper and salt ; boil up once 
to cook the eggs, and serve. Should the liquid be too thick 
after putting in the sago, replenish with boiling water. It 
should be about the consistency of hot custard. 

Tliis soup is very good, if chicken broth be substituted 
for the veal. It is very strengthening to invalids, and es- 
pecially beneficial to those suffering with colds or pulmontuy 
affections. 

Chicken Soup. »J* 

2 young fowls, or one full-grown. 

^ lb. ham. 

1 gallon of water. 



MEAT SOUPS. 43 

(Jut the fowls into pieces as for fiicassee. Pul these 
■ with the ham into the pot with a quart of water, or enough 
to cover them fairly. Stew foi an hour, if the fowls arr 
tendur • if tough, until you can cut easily into the breast 
Take out the breasts, leading the rest of the meat in the 
pot, and add the remainder of the water— boiling hot. Keep 
the soup stewing slowly while you chop up the white meat 
you have selected. Eub the yolks of four hard-boiled eggs 
smooth in a moi-tar or bowl, moistening to a paste with a 
few spoonfuls of the soup. Mix with these a handful of 
fine bread-crumbs and the chopped meat, and make it into 
small balls. ^V^len the soup has boiled, in all, two hours 
and a half, if the chicken be reduced to shreds, strain out 
the meat and bones. Season with salt and white pepper, 
with a bunch of chopped parsley. Drop in the prepared 
force-meat, and after boiling ten minutes to incorporate the 
ingredients well, add, a little at a time, a pint of rich milk 
thickened with flour. BoU up once and soi-ve. 

A chicken at least a year old would make better soup 
than a younger fowl. 

Venison Soup. ^ 

3 lbs. of venison. What are considered the in- 
ferior pieces will do. 

1 lb. ham or salt pork. 

1 onion. 

1 head of celer}'. 
Cut up the meat ; chop the vegetables, and put on with 
just en*" agh water to cover them, keeping on the lid of the 
pot aL the while, and stew slowly for one hour. Then add 
two quarts of boiling water, with a few blades of mace 
and a dozen whole peppers. Or, should you ])refer, a little 
cayenne. Boil two hours longer, salt, and strain, lietum 
the l"q-ior to the pot ; stir in a tablespoonful of butter 



i4 



COMMON SENSE. 



thicken with a tablespoonful of browned flour wet into a 
smooth thin paste with cold water; add a tablespoonfiii ■ 
walnut or mushroom catsup, a teaspoonful of Worcester 
Ehire or other pungent sauce, and a generous glass of Ma 
deira or brown sherry. 

Hare or Kabbit Soup, 

Dissect the rabbit, crack the bones, and prepare precisely 
as you would the venison soup, only putting in three smaU 
onions instead of one, and a bunch of sweet herbs. Hares 
which are too tough to be cooked in any other way, make 
excellent game soup. Also, the large gray squirrel of tha 
Middle and Southern States. 

I have eaten squirrel soup that was really delicious. 

Ox-Tail Soup. 

1 ox-tail. 

2 lbs. lean beef. 
4 carrots. 

3 onions. - 
Thyme. 

Out the tail into several pieces and fry brown in butter 
Slice the onions and carrots, and when you remove the ox- 
tail from the frj'ing-pan, put in these and brown also. 
When done, tie them in a bag with a bunch of thyme and 
drop into the souji-pot. Lay the pieces of ox-tail in the 
same; then the meat cut into small slices. Grate over 
them the two whole carrots, and add four quarts of cold 
water, with pepper and salt. Boil from four to six hours, 
in proportion to the size of the tail. Strain fifteen minutei 
before serving it, and thicken with two tablespoonfuls of 
browned fioui\ Boil ten minutes longer. 



FISH SOUPB. M 

FISH SOUPS. 
Otsteu Sou5/(No. 1). »{• 

2 qts. of oysters. 

1 qt. of milk. 

^ tablespoonfuls butter. 

1 teacupful water. 

Strain tlie liquor from the oysters, add to it the w-atei, 
Mi>1 sot it over the fire to heat slowly in a covered vessel. 
When it is near boiling, season with pej/per and salt, and 
stir in the mUk, after which stir constantly, unless, as is 
wisest, you heat the liquor in a vessel set in a pot of boil- 
tag water. When the soup again nears the boiling-point, 
add the oysters, and let them stew until they " ruffle " on 
the edge. This will be in about five minutes. Then put in 
the butter and stir well until it is melted, when the soup ia 
ready for use. 

Serve with sliced lemon and oyster or cream crackers. 
Some use mace and nutmeg in seasoning. The crowmng 
excellence in oyster soup is to have it cooked just enough. 
Too much stewing ruins the bivalves, while an underdone 
oyster is a flabby abomination. The plumpness of the main 
body and ruffled edge are good indices of their right con- 
dition. 

Oyster Soup (No. 2). 

2 qts. 01 oysters. 

2 eggs. 

1 qt. milk. 

1 teacupful of water. 

Strain the liquor from the oysters into a saucepan, pouj 
in with it the water. Season with cayenne pepper and a lit 
tie salt, a tcaspooiiful of mingled nutmeg, mace, and clo i^ea 



46 COMMON SENSE. 

When the liquor is almost boiling, add lialf the cyston 
chopped finely and boil five mimites quite brii?kly. Strain 
the soup and return to saucepan with the milk. Ila ve r«ady 
Bome force-meat balls, not larger than marbles, made of the 
yelks of the eggs boiled hard and rubbed to a smooth p«6st» 
with a little butter, then mixed with six raw oysters chop- 
ped very finely, a little salt, and a raw egg well beaten, to bind 
the ingredients together. Flour your hands well and roll the 
force-meat into pellets, laying them upon a cold plate, so aa 
not to touch one another, until needed. Then put tlie re- 
served whole oysters into the hot soup, and when it begins tc 
boil again, drop in the force-meat marbles. Boil imtil the 
oysters " ruffle," by which time the balls will also be done. 

Serve with sliced lemon and crackers. A liberal table- 
epoonful of butter stirred in gently at the last is an im- 
provement. /^ ~> 
(Clam SoupJ 
50 clams. 
1 qt. milk. 

1 pint water. 

2 tablespoonfuls butter. 

If you cannot buy the clams already opened, put them in 
a large pan or tray, and pour boiling water over them. This 
will open the shells. Take them out as fast as they unclose, 
that you may save all the Kquor they contain. Drain off this 
and put it over the fire with' a dozen whole peppers, a few 
bits of cayenne pods, half a dozen blades of mace, and salt to 
taste. Let it boil for ten minutes, then put in the clams and 
boil half an hour quite fast, keeping the pot closely covered 
If you dislike to see the whole spices in the tureen, strain 
them out before the clams are added. At the end of the 
half liour add the milk, which has-been heated to scalding. 
not boiling, in another vessel. Boil up again, taking car* 
the soup does not bum, and put in the butter. Then serve 



BIBB BOTJPB 41 

without delay. If you desire a thicker soup, etir a heaping 
tablespoonful of rice-flour into a little cold milk, and put in 
with the quart of hot. 

Cat-fish Soup. 4« 

Few persons are aware into what a variety of tempting 
dishes this much-abused fish can be made. Those who 
have only seen the bloated, unsightly creatures that play 
the scavengers about city wharves, are excusable for enter- 
taining a prejudice against them as an article of food. But 
the small cat-fish of our inland lakes and streams are alto- 
gether respectable, except in their unfortunate name. 

6 cat-fish, in average weight half a pound apiece. 
J lb. salt pork. 

1 pint milk. 

2 eggs. 

1 head of celery, or a small bag of celery-seed. 

Skin and clean the fish and cut them up. Choj) the 
pork into small pieces. Put these together into the pot, 
with two quarts of water, chopped sweet herbs, and the 
celery seasoning. Boil for an hour, or until fish and porl- 
are in rags, and strain, if you desire a regular soup for & 
first course. Return to the saucepan and add the mUk, 
which should be already hot. Next the eggs, beaten to a 
froth, and a hunp of butter the size of a walnut. Boil up 
once, and serve with dice of toasted bread on the top. 
Pass sliced lemon, or walnut or butternut pickles with it. 

Eel Soup 

Eel soup is made in precisely the same manner as cat- 
fish, only boiled longer. A chopped onion is no detriment 
t<> the flavor of either, and will removo the muddy taste 
which these fish sometimes acquire from turbid strewT'fj. 



M COMMON SENSE. 

LoBSTEB Soup. 

2 qta. veal or chicken broth, -well strained. 

1 large lobster. 

2 eggs — boiled hard 

Boi! the lobster and extract the meat, setting aside th. 
ooral in a cool place. Cut or chop up the meat found in 
the d»ws. Eub the yolks of the eggs to a paste with a 
teaspoonfuL of butter, Pound and rub the claw-meat in 
the same manner, and Tniy with the yolka Beat up a raw 
egg, and stir into the paste ; season with pepper, salt, and, 
if you like, mace ; make into force-meat balls, and set away 
with the coral to cool and harden. By this time the stock 
should be well heated, when put in the rest of the lobster 
meat cut into square bits. BoU fifteen minutes, which time 
employ in pounding the coral in a Wedgewood mortar, or 
earthenware bowl, i-ubbing it into a fine, even paste, with 
the addition of a few spoonfuls of the broth, gradually 
worked in until it is about the consistency of boiled starch. 
Stir very carefully into the hot soup, which should, in the 
process, blush into a roseate hue. Lastly, drop in the 
force-meat balls, after which do not stir, lest they should 
break. Simmer a few minutes to cook the raw egg ; but, 
if allowed to boil, the soup will darken. 

Crab soup may be made in the same way, excepting tiu 
OoiaUine process, crabs being destitute of that dainty. 

Q.™ T„,^ S.„$ 

A glass of Madeira. 
2 onions. 

Bunch of sweet heiba. 
Juice of one lemon. 
6 qts. of water. 



FISH SOUPS. 49 

Chop up the coaxser parts of the turtle-meat, with the 
w trails imd bones. Add to them four quarts of water, and 
stew four hours with the herbs, onions, pepper, and salt. 
Stew yery slowly, but do not let it cease to boU during this 
tiine. At the end of four hours strain the soup, and add 
the finer parts of the turtle and the green fat, which has 
been simmered for one hour in two quarts of water. 
Thicken with browned flour ; return to the soup-pot, and 
simmer gently an hour longer. If there are eggs in the 
turtle, boil them in a separate vessel for four hours, and 
throw into the soup before taking it up. If not, put in 
force-meat balls ; then the juice of the lemon and the wine , 
^eat up once and pour out. Some cooks add the finer 
laeat before straining, boiling aU together five hours ; then 
•train, thicken, and put in the green fat, cut into lumps an 
Inch long. This makes a handsomer soup than if the meat 
is left in. 

For the mock eggs, take the yolks of three hard-boiled eggs, 
and one raw egg well beaten. Rub the boiled eggs into a 
paste with a teaspoonful of butter, bind with the raw egg, 
roll into pellets the size and shape of turtle-eggs, and lay in 
h m'lin g water for two minutes before dropping into the 

soup. 

Force-meat halls for the above. 

Six tablespoonfuls turtle-meat chopped very fine. Hub 
vjO a paste with the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs ; table- 
spoonful of butter, and, if convenient, a little oyster-liquor. 
Season with cayenne, mace, and half a teaspoonful of white 
sugrr. Bind with a well-beaten egg; shape into balls 
dip in egg, then powdered cracker, fry in butter, and drop 
into the soup when it is served. 

Mock turtle for soups is now within the reach of every 
private feunily, being well preserved in air-tight cans. 
3 



60 COiiiUjS SENSE 

FISH. 
Boiled Codfish. {Fresh.) ^ 

Lay the fish in cold water, slightly salted, foi half aa 
hour before it is time to coot it. Wipe it dry and put it 
iuto the fish-kettle with water enough to co-ver it, in wliich 
Las been dissolved a little salt. Let it boil quite briskly. 
A piece of cod weighing three pounds will be cooked in half 
an hour from the time the water fairly boUs, if put in without 
a cloth. But by far the better plan is, when the cod haa 
been wiped free of the salt and water, to wrap it in a clean 
Unen cloth kept for such purposes. , The cloth should bo 
dredged with flour, to prevent sticking. Sew up the edges in 
such a manner as to envelop the fish entirely, yet have but 
one thickness of the cloth over any part. The wrapping 
should be fitted neatly to the shape of the piece to be cook- 
ed. Fish cooked thus wUl require twice as long to boil aa 
when put into the water without such protection ; but the 
flavor is better preserved, and when unwrapped, it will not 
present the sodden appearance and crumbling grain that 
disfigure most boUed fish. 

Have ready a sauce prepared thus : — 

To one giU boiling water add aa much milk, and when it is 
Bcalding-hot, stir in -leaving the sauce-pan on the fire — ^two 
tablespoonfuls of butter, a little at a time, that it may melt 
without oiling, a tablespoonful of flour previously wet with 
cold water, and, as this thickens, two beaten eggs. Season 
with salt and chopped parsley, and when, after one good boU, 
you withdraw it from the fii-e, add a dozen capers, or pickled 
nasturtium seeds, or, if you prefer, a spoonful of vinegar in 
which celery-seeds have been steeped. Put the fish into a 
hot dish, and pour the sauce over it. Some serve in a but- 
ter-boat ; but I fancy that the boiling sauce applied to tha 
rteaming fish imparts a richness it cannot gain later. Gar 



FISH. 51 

i\iah ■with sprigs of parsley and circles of hard-boiled eggs, 
Uid around the edge of the dish. 

EOCKFISH. 

Rockfish and river-bass are very nice, cools ed as above 
nt do not need to be boiled so long as codfish. 

Boiled Codfish. {Salt.) 

Put tlie fisli to soak over night in lukewarm water — at 
early as eight o'clock in the evening. Change this for more 
warm water at bed-time and cover closely. Change again 
in the morning and wash off the salt. Two hours before 
dinner take out the cod, examine to see that no crystals of 
salt adhere to the under part, and plunge into very cold 
watei'. This makes it firm. Finally, set over the fire witii 
enough lukewarm water to cover it, and boil for half an 
hour. Draki well ; lay it in a hot dish, and poiir over it 
egg-sauce prepared as in the foregoing receipt, only substi 
tuting the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs, rubbed to a paste 
with butter, for the beaten raw egg. 

This is a useful receipt for country housekeepers wh"« 
can seldom procure fresh cod. Salt mackerel, prepared iw 
the same way, will well repay the care and time requii-ed , 
BO superior is it to the Friday's dish of salt fish, as usually 
served. 

Should the cold fish left over be used for fish-balls- -an 
it should be — ^it will be found that the sauce which ha« 
■oaked into it while hot has greatly improved it. 

Codfish Balls. b|« 

Prepare the fish precisely as for boiling whole. C ut is 
pieces when it lias been duly washed and soaked, and boiJ 
twentj minutes. Tvirn off the water, and cover with {lesb 



13 COMMOU STINsa. 

from the boiling teorkettle. Boil twenty minutes more, 
dram the &sh very dry, and spread upon a dish to cooi, 
WTiOD perfectly cold, pick to pieces with a fork, remoTitu 
every vestige of skin and bone, and shredding very fina 
When this is done, add an equal bulk of mashed potato 
work into a stiff batter by adding a lump of butter and 
iweet milk, and if you w^ant to have them very nice, a beat- 
en egg. Flour your hands and make the mixture into balls 
or cakes. Drop them into boiling lard cr good dripping, 
»nd fry to a light brown. Plainer fish-cakes may be mada 
of the cod and potatoes alone, moulded round like biscuit. 
In any shape the dish is popular. 

It gives me great pleasure to recommend the desiccated 
T!od-fish put up in boxes by the Boston and Philadelphia 
Salt Fish Company. The fish is already cooked and shred, 
4nd the housekeeper is thiis saved the only disagreeable 
j,rart of the process ■ of making this delightful breakfast 
.elish — the boiling and the unsavory odor arising therefrom, 
«s well as the care of soaking and picking out the fish. The 
balls prepared from the desiccated fish are every whit equal 
in flavor to those made of the home-cooked, and can ba 
ready at half-an-hour's notice. The cost is not more — per- 
haps less, than when one buys the cod in bulk, bones and 
bU. 

Salt Codfish stewed with Eggs). 

Prepare the fish as fof balls. Heat almost to boiling 
a pint of rich, sweet milk, and stir into it, gradually and 
carefully, three eggs well beaten, a tablespoonful of butter 
R little chopped parsley and buttor, with peppor, lastly the 
fish. Boil up once and turn into a deep ccvercd dish, oi 
chafing-dish lined with buttered toast. Eat hot for breivk 
fast or supper. 



FISB. 53 

Codfish amd Potato Stew. •!« 

Soak, boil, and pick tlie fish, if salt, as for fish-balls. If 
fresh, boil and pick into bits. Add an equal quantity of 
mashed potatoes, a large tablespoonful of butter and milk^ 
enough to make it very soft. Put into a skillet, and add a 
very little boiling water to keep it from burning. Turn 
and toss constantly until it is smoking hot but not dry ; add 
pepper and parsley, and dish. 

Boiled Mackerel. (Fresh.) »J« 

Clean the mackerel and wipe carefully with a dry, clean 
cloth; wash them lightly with another cloth dipped in 
■vinegar ; wrap each in a coarse Unen cloth (floured) bas+ed 
closely to the shape of the fish. Put them into a pot with 
enough salted water to cover them, and boil them gently ibr 
half an hour. Drain them well. Take a teacupful of the 
water in which they were boiled, and put into a saucepan 
with a tablespoonful of walnut catsup, some anchovy paste 
or sauce, and the juice of half a lemon. Let this boU up 
well and add a lump of butter the size of an egg, with a 
tablespoonful browned flour wet m cold water. Boil up 
again and serve in the sauce-boat. This maltes a brown 
sauce. You can substitute egg-sauce if you like. Garnish 
with parsley and nasturtium blossoms. 

Broiijid Mackerel. {Fresh.) 

Clean the mackerel, wash, and wipe dry. Split it open, 
so that when laid flat the backbone will be in the middle. 
Sprinkle lightly with salt, and lay on a buttered gridiron 
over a clear fire, with the inside downward, until it begins 
to brown ; then turn the other. When quite done, lay on 
» hot dish and butter it plentifully. Turn another hot dist 



54 COMMON SENSE. 

over the lower one, aud let it stand two or tlueo minuMa 
before sending to table. 

Broiled Mackerel. (Scdt.) 

Soak OTer night in lukewarm water. Change this earl^ 
in the morning for very cold, and let the fish lie in this lu) 
til time to cook. Then proceed as with the fresh mackerel 

Boiled Halibut. ►J* 

Lay in cold salt and water for an hour. Wipe dry and 
score the skin in squares. Put into the kettle with cold 
*alted water enough to cover it. It is so firm in texture 
1 hat you can boil without a cloth if you choose. Let it heat 
jjradually, and boil from half to three-quarters of an hour, 
w proportion to the size of the piece. Four or five pounda 
"•'ill be enough for most private families. Drain and ac- 
company by egg-sauce — either poured over the fish, or in a 
f^uce-boat. 

Save the cold remnants of the fish and what sauce is left 
<>ntil next moi .ing. Pick out as you would cod, mix with 
an equal quantity of mashed potato, moisten with the sauce, 
yr with milk and butter if yoii have no sauce, put into a 
xkillet, and stir until it is very hot. Do not let it bum. 
Season -sv-ith pepper and salt. 

Baked ELalibut. »{« 

Tf4,ke a piece of halibiit weighing five or six pounds, 
and lay in salt and water for two hours. Wipe dry and 
•core the outer skin. Set in the baking-pan in a tolerably 
hot oven, and bake an hour, basting often with butter and 
water heated together in a saucepan or tin cup. When a 
fork will penetrate it easily it is done. It should be of a fine 
iBPOwn. Take the gravy in the di'ij ping-pan — add a iiltlf 



FIbH. 55 

boiling water sliould there not bo enough — stir in a table 
spoonful of walnut catsup, a teaspoonful of Worcestershire 
sauce, the juice of a lemon, and thicken with browned flow 
previously wet with cold water. Boil up once and put intc 
sauce-boat. 

There is no finer preparation of halibut than this, vhich 
L"3, however, comparatively little known. Those who have 
eaten it iisually prefer it to boiled and broiled. You can 
use what is left for the same purpose as the fragments of 
boiled halibut. 

Halibut Steak. »J« 

Wash and wipe the steaks diy. Beat up two or three 
'■ggs, and roll out some Boston or other brittle crackers 
.'pon the kneading-board until they are fine as dust. Dip 
•iach steak into the beaten egg, then into the bread crumbs 
(when you have salted the fish), and fry in hot fat, lard, or 
nice dripping. 

Or, you can broU the steak upon a buttered gridiron, 
over a clear fire, first seasoning with salt and pepper. When 
done, lay in a hot dish, butter well, and cover closely. 

Devilled Halibut. 

Mince a pound of cold boiled or baked halibut, or the 
fragments of halibut steak, and mix with it the follow- 
mg dressing : The yolks of three hard-boiled eggs rubbed 
smooth with the back of a sUver spoon, or in a Wedgewood 
moi-tar, and when there remain no lumps in it, work into 
a soft paste with a tablespoonful salad oil. Next beat in 
two teaspoonfuls white sugar, a teaspoonful made mustard 
It pinch of cayenne, teaspoonful salt, one of Worcestershire 
sauce, a Kttle anchovy paste if you have it, and finally _ 
a little at a time to prevent lumping, a small teacupful of 
TJnegar in which celery-seed have been steeped. It is easj 



B6 COMMON SENSE. 

to ieep a bottle of this on hand for salads and sauces. Stii 
all thoroughly into the niinced fish, garnish with a chain 
of the whites of the eggs cut into rings, ■B'ith a small round 
Blice of ])ickled beet laid within each link, and you have a 
piquant and pretty salad for the supper-table. 

Boiled Salmon. {I^esh.) •{« 

Wrap the fish, when you have washed and wiped it, 
in a clean linen cloth — not too thick — ^baste it up securely 
and p"t into the fish-kettle. Cover with cold water in 
whicT* has been melted a handful of salt. Boil slowly, al- 
lowing aboiit a quarter of an hour to each pound. When 
the time is u]), rijy open a corner of the cloth and test thf 
salmon with a fork. If it penetrate easily, it is done. If 
not, hastily pin up the cloth and cook a little longer. Skim 
off the scum as it rises to the top. Have ready in another 
sauce-pan a pint of cream — or half milk and half cream wiJi 
do — which has been heated in a vessel set in boiling watei ' 
stir into this a large spoonful of butter, a little salt an.'* 
cliopped parsley, and a half-gill of the water in which tho 
fish is boilod. Let it boil up once,, stirring all the while — 
or, what is better, do not remove from the inner vesset 
When the fish is done, take it instantly from the kettle, 
ay it an instant upon a folded cloth to absorb the drop- 
pings ; transfer with great care, for fear of breaking, to a 
hot dish, and pour the' boiled cream over it, reserving 
enough to fill a small sauce-boat. Garnish with curled 
parsley and circular slices of Jiard-boUed yolks — leaving oul 
the whites of the eggs. 

After serving boiled salmon with cream-sauce, you m\} 
never be quite content with any other. If you cannot gei 
cream, boil a pint of miik and thicken with arrow-root. It 
IS not so nice, but many will not detect the difference- -reai 
eream l)eing a rare commodity in town. 



FISH. 51 

Tou may pickle what is lef*., if it is in one piece. Or 
:ievil it, as I have directed you to treat cold halibut. Or 
mince, mix. with mashed potato, milk, and butter, anil stii 
into a sort of stew. Or, once again, mix with mashed po 
tatOj mUk, butter, and a raw egg well-beaten; make into 
cakes or balls, and fry in hot lard or drij ping. At any 
rate, let none of it be lost, it being at once one of our mos* 
expensive and most delicious fish. 

Bajled Salmon. •!« 

Wash and wipe dry, and rub with pepper and salt 
Some add a soup^on of cayenne and powdered mace. Lay 
the fish upon a grating set over your baking-pan, and roast 
or bake, basting it freely with butter, and, toward the last, 
with its own drijjpings only. Should it bi'own too fast, 
cover the top with a sheet of white paper until the whole 
is cooked. When it is done, transfer to a hot dish and 
cover closely, and add to the gravy a little hot water thick 
ened with arrow-root, rice, or wheat flour, — wet, of course, 
first with cold water, — a great spoonful of light tomato sauce, 
and the juice of a lemon. Boil up and serve in a sauce 
boat, or you can serve with cream sauce, made as for boiled 
salmon. Garnish handsomely with alternate sprigs of i)ars 
ley and the bleached tops of celery, with ruby bits of firm 
currant jelly here and there. This is a fine dish for a din- 
ner-party. A glass of sherry imj^roves the fi"st-named 

eauce. 

Saimon Steaks. »J« 

Dry well with a cloth, dredge with flour, and lay them 
npon a well-buttered giidiron, over clear hot coals. Turn 
with a broad-bladed knife slipped beneath, and a flat wira 
sggbeater above, lest the steak should break. When don« 
to a light brown, lay in a hot dish, butter each steak, sea 
loniug with salt and pepper, cover closely, and serve. 
3* 



58 COMMON 8ENBE. 

Pickled Salmon. {Fresh.) •{• 
Having ileaned your fish, cut into pieces of a con 
eenient size to go into the fish-kettle, and boil in salted 
water as for the table. Drain it very dry, wipe it with a 
clean cloth, and set it aside until next morning. 

Make pickle enough to cover it in the following propop 
tions : 2 quarts vinegar, a dozen blades of mace, dozen 
white peppers, dozen cloves, two teaspoonfuls made mus- 
tard, three tablespoonfuls white sugar, and a pint of the 
water ia which the fish was boiled. Let them boil up once 
hard, that you may skim the pickle. Should the spicej 
come away with the scum ia large quantities, pick them 
out and return to the kettle. Set the liquor away in an 
parthenware jar, closely covered to keep in the flavor. 
Next morning hang it over a brisk fire in a bell-metal 
Vettle (covered), and heat to boiling. Meanwhile, prepare 
/he salmon by cutting into pieces an inch and a half long 
imd haK an inch wide. Out cleanly and regularly with a 
Bbarp knife. When they are aU ready, and the liquor is on 
the boil, drop them carefuUy into the kettle. Let the 
pickle boil up once to make sure the sahnon is heated 
through. Have ready some air-tight glass jars, such as 
you iise for canning fruit and tomatoes. Take the salmon 
from the kettle, while it is stiU on the stove or range, with 
a wire egg-beater, taking care you do not break the pieces. 
Drop them rapidly into the jar, packing closely as you go 
on ; fiU with the boiling pickle until it overflows, screw on 
the top, and set away in a dark, cool place. Proceed in 
tlie same way with each can until all are full. Salmon 
thus put up will keep good for years, as I can testify from 
experience, and will weU repay the trouble of preparation. 
YoM can vary the seasoning to your tas'te, addiag a shallot 
ar two minced veiy fine, some celery and small pods of 
^.yenne pepper, which always looh well in vinegar. 



FISB. 59 

Be su?e that the contents of the kettle are boiling when 
Iransferred to the cans, that they are not allowed time tc 
cool in the transit, that the elastic on the can is properly 
adjusted, and the top screwed down tightly, and success it 
certain. I would call the attention of those who are fond 
of the potted spiced salmon, sold at a high price in gro 
eery-stores, to this receipt for making the same luxury at 
home. It costs less by one-half, is as good, and is always 
on hand. 

Pickled Salmon. (Scdt.) 

At certain seasons of the year fresh salmon cannot ba 
procured, even by the dwellers in cities, while those who live 
jn the country sometimes do not see it from one year's end 
uo the other. But dried salmon can always be had in any 
tolerably well-kept grocery, and a very nice relish prepared 
trom it. 

"Wash the salmon in two or three waters, rubbing it 
lightly with a coarse cloth to remove the salt-crystals. Then 
soak over night in tepid water. Exchange this in the morn- 
ing for ice-cold, and let the fish lie in the latter for three 
hours. Take it out, wipe dry, and cut in strips as directed 
in the foregoing receipt. Drop these, when all are ready, 
»Ki a saucepan of boiling water, placed alongside of a kettle 
eif pickle prepared as for fresh salmon. Beside these have 
your air-tight jars, covers laid in readiness, and when the 
salmon has boiled five minutes— fairly boiled, not simmered 
— fish out the pieces with your wire spoon, pack rapidly 
into your can; fill up with the boiling pickle from the 
other kettle, and seal instantly. In two days the pickled 
salmon wiU be fit for use, and is scarcely distinguishable 
from that made of fresh fish. It has the advantage of 
being always procurable, and of comparative cheapness, and 
in the country is a valuable stand-by in case of unexpected 
supper company. 



60 COMMON SENSE. 

Smoked Salmon. (JiroUed.) 

Take a piece of i-aw smoked salmon the nize of jou 
baud, or larger in proportion to the number who are to si^ 
down to supper. Wash it in two -waters, rubbing off ths 
salt. Lay in a skillet with enough warm — not hot — wate* 
to cover it; let it simmer fifteen minutes, and boU five, 
Remove it, wipe dry, and lay on a buttered gridiron to broil 
When it is nicely browned on both sides, transfer to a hot 
dish ; butter liberally, and pepper to taste. Garnish with 
hillocks of grated horse-radish interspersed with sprays cf 
fresh or pickled fennel-seed, or with parsley. 

Raw smoked salmon is in common use upon the supper^ 
Uible, out into smooth sti-ips as long as the middle finger, 
and rather wider; arranged neatly upon a garnished dish, 
and eaten with pepper-sauce or some other pungent condi- 
ment. 

Boiled Shad. {M-esh.) ^J* 

Clean, wash, and wipe the fish. A roe shad is best foi 
this purpose. Cleanse the roes tlioi-oughly, and having 
spiinkled both shad and eggs with salt, wrap in separate 
cloths and put into the fish-kettle, side by side.. Cover with 
salted water, and boil from half an hour to three-quarters, 
in proportion to the size. Experience is the best rule as to 
the time. Wlien you have once cooked fish to a turn, note 
the weight and time, and you will be at no loss thereafter. 
A good rule is to make a pencilled memorandum in the 
margin of the receipt-book opposite certain receipts. 

Serve the shad upon a hot dish, with a boat of drawn 
butter mingled with chopped egg and parsley, or egg-snuce. 
Lay the roes about the body of the fish. Gamiah witli 
tapers and slices of hard-boiled eggs. 



FI8H. 6i 

Boiled Shad. {Salt.) 

In those States where shad are plenty they are salte^^ 
»nd used freely, as are salt mackerel elsewhere. They form 
» delightful breakfast-dish, and are welcome on the supper 
table on winter nights. 

Soak the fish six or seven hours in warm watei', 
BLanging it several times; wipe off all the salt and immerse 
in ice-cold water. When it has lain in this an hour, put 
into a fish-kettle with enough fresh water to cover it, and 
boil from fifteen to twenty minutes, in proportion to the 
si/e. Serve in a hot dish, with a large lump of butter 
spread over the fish. 

Broiled Shad. {Fresh.) »|« 

Wash, wipe, and split the fish. Sprinkle with salt and 
pepper, and lay it upon a buttered gridiron, inside down 
ward. When the lower side is browned, turn the fish. 
One of medium size will be done in about twenty minutes. 
Serve upon a hot dish, and lay a good piece of butter upon 

the fish. 

Broiled Shad. {Salt.) 

Soak over night in lukewarm water. Take out in the 
morning and transfer to ice-cold for half an hour. Wipe 
very dry, and broil as you do fresh shad. 

Fried Shad. 

This is a popular dish upon Southern tables, and is good 
Miywhere. Clean, wash, and wipe a fine roe-shad ; split and 
cut each side into four pieces, leaving out the head, and re- 
mo 7ing fins and tail. Sprinkle with salt and pepper, and 
dredge with flour. Have ready i frying-pan of boiliag hot 
lard or drippings ; put in the fish and fry brown, turning at 
the end of five minutes to oook the other side. Fry the 



bZ COMMON 8EMSE. 

roe iu tlie same way ; lay the fish in the miiidle of the dish, 
and the roe outside of it; garnish with water-cresses and 
sprigs of pickled cauliflower, and eat with catsup. 

Baked Shad. »|< 

Clean, wash, and wipe the fish, which should be a !arg 
oni). Make a stuffing of grated bread-crumbs steeped in 
sweet milk, butter, salt, pepper, and sweet herbs, moistened 
with a beaten egg. Stuff the shad and sew it up. Lay it 
In the baking-pan, with a cupful of water to keep it from 
burning, ana bake an hour, basting with butter and water, 
•until it is tendei: throughout and well browned. Take it 
tip, put in a hot dish and cover tightly, while you boil up 
«he gravy with a great spoonftd of catsup, a tablesijoonful 
of browned flour which has been wet with cold water, the 
juice of a lemon, and, if you want to have it very fine, a glass 
of sherry or Madeira. Garnish with sliced lemon and 
water-cresses. You may pour the gravy around the fish, or 
►erve in a sauce-boat. Of course you take out the thread 
with which it has been sewed up before serving the fish. 

Boiled Sea-Bass. 

Clean and put the fish into the fish-kettle, with salted 
water enough to cover it when you have enveloped it in 
the fish-nloth. A medium-sized fish will be done in a little 
over half an hour. But do not boU too fast. When done, 
drain and serve in a hot dish. Lay sliced boiled eggs upon 
and about it, and serve with egg-sauce, mingled with capera 
or nasturtium seed. 

Fried Sea- Bass. 

Use smaller fish for this purpose than for boiling. 
Clean, wipe dty, inside and out, dredge with flour anci 
season with salt. Fry in hot butter or dripping. A mix 



KISH. 69 

mre, half batter, half lard, is good for frying fish. 'J?he baa« 
Bauuld be done to a delicate brown — not to a crisp. Th» 
fashion affected by some cooks of drying fried fish to a croa* 
is simply abominable. 

Fried bass are a most acceptable breakfast dish. 

Sturgeon Steak. 

Skin the steaks carefuUy and lay in salted water (cohl) 
for an hour, to remove the oily taste, so offensive to mosi 
palates. Then wipe each steak dry, salt, and broil over hot 
coals on a buttered gridiron. Serve in a hot dish when 
>ou have buttered and peppered them, and send up gai.- 
siished with parsley and accompanied by a small glass dish 
k.'ontaining sKced lemon. 

Or, 

Tou cm pour over them a sauce prepared in this way: — 

Put a tablespoonful of butter into a frying-pan, and stir 
antU it is brown — not burned. Add a half-teacupful of 
*»oilLag water in which has been stirred a tablespoonful of 
browned flovir previously wet with cold water. Add salt, 
a teaspoonful "Worcestershire sauce or anchovy, the juice of 
a lemon, and let it boil up well. Pour over the steaks when 
you have arranged them in the dish. 

Baked Stuegeon. 

A piece of sturgeon weighing five or six pounds is 
enough for a handsome dish. Skin it and let it stand iu 
salt and watei for half an hour. Parboil it to remove the 
oil. Make a dressing of bread-crumbs, minute bits of fat 
salt pork, sweet herbs, and butter. Gash the upper part ol 
the fish quite deeply, and rxib tliis force-meat well in; put 
in a baking-pan with a little water to keep it from burning, 
!Uid bake for an hour. 



64 COMMON SEI^SK. 

Serve with a sauce of drawn biitter, in ■whicli has beei 
iitirred a spoonful of caper sauce and another of catsup. 
This is a Virginia receipt, and an admirable one. 

Mayoitnaise. (Msh.) 

Take a pound or so of cold boiled fish (halibut, rock, ta 
cod), cut — not chop — into pieces an inch in length. Mix in 
a bowl a dressing as follows : the yolks of four boiled egga 
rubbed to a smooth paste with salad oil ; add to these salt, 
pepper, mustard, two teaspoonfuls white sugar, and, lastly, 
six tablespoonfuls of vinegar. Beat the mixture until 
light, and jtist before pouring it over the fish, stir in lightly 
the frothed white of a raw egg. Serve the fish in a glass 
dish, -svith six tablespoonfuls of vinegai' and half the dress- 
ing stirred in with it. Spread the remainder over the top, 
and lay blanched lettuce-leaves around the edges, to be eaten 
with it. 

Baked Salmon-Trout. »J« 

Those who have eaten this prince of game fish in \Aie 
Adirondacks, within an hour after he has left the lake, will 
fcgree with me that he never has such justice done hini at 
any other time as when baked with cream. 

Handle the beauty with gentle respect while cleaning, 
washing, and wiping him, and lay him at full length, still 
respectfully, in a baking-pan, with just enough water to 
keep him from scorching. If large, score the back-bone 
with a sharp knife, taking care not to mar the comehness 
of his red-spotted sides. Bake slowly, basting often with 
butter and water. By the time he is done — and he should 
be so well-looked after that his royal robe hardly shows a 
B»Bm or rent, and the red spots are still distinctly visible- 
have ready in a saucepan a cup of cream — diluted with . $ 
few spoonfuls of hot water, lest it should clot in heating- 



B18H. 6.1 

In wLicli has been stin-ed cautiously two tablespoonfiila o^ 
melted butter and a little chopped parsley. Heat this iu a 
vessel set within another of boiling water, add the gravj 
from the dripping-pan, boU up once to thicken, and whei 
the trout is laid — always respectfully — in a hot dish, poiu 
ehe sauce around him as he lies in state. He will take kind- 
ly to the creamy bath, and your guests wUl take kindly to 
hiin. Garnish with a wreath of crimson nasturtium^blooms 
and dainty sprigs of parsley, ai'ranged by your o-«ti hands 
on the edge of the dish, and let no sharply-spiced sauces 
come near him. They would but mar his native richness- - 
the flavor he brought with liim from' the lake and wild- wood. 
Salt him lightly, should he need it, eat and be happy. 

If the above savor of bathos rather than " common 
sense," my excuse is, I have lately eaten baked salmon- 
tiout with cream-gi-avy. 

Boiled Salmon-Trout. »J« 

Clean, wash, and diy the trout ; envelop in a thin cloth 
fitted neatly to the shape of the fish, lay within a fish-kettle, 
cover with salted water (cold), and boil gently half an hour 
or longer, according to the size. When done, unwrap and 
lay in a hot dish. Pour around it cream-sauce made as foi 
baked salmon-trout — only, of course, with the •pmission of 
the fish-gi'avy — and serve. 

Fried Trout. 

Brook trout are generally cooked in this way, and form 
» rarely delightful breakfast or supper dish. 

Clean, wash, and dry the fi.sh, roll lightly in flour, and 
fry in butter or clarified dripping, or butter and lard. Let 
ihe fat be hot, fry quickly to a delicate brown, and take up 
the inatant they are done. Lay for an inftant upon a ho< 



66 COMMON SENSE. 

folded iiapkm, to absorb whatever grease may cling to tlieh 
ri[)eckled sides; then range side by side in a heated dish, 
garnish, and send to table. Use no seasoning except salt, 
and that only when the fish are fried in lard or unsalted 
dripping. . 

Fried Pickerel. »J« 

The pickerel ranks next to trout among game-fish, and 
should be fried in the same manner. Especially — and 1 
urge this with groaning of spirit, in remembrance of the 
many times in which I have had my sense of fitness, not to 
say my appetite, outraged by seeing the gallant fish brought 
to table dried to a crisp throughout, all his juices wasted 
and sweetness utterly departed — especially, do not fry him 
slowly and too long ; and when he is done, take him out of 
the grease I 

Cream Pickerel. i-J* 

Reserve your largest pickerel — those over three pounds in 
■weight — for baking, and proceed with them as with baked 
salmon-trout — cream-gravy and all. If you cannot afforJ 
crean- , substitute rich milk, and thicken with rice or wheat 
flour. The fish are better cooked in this way than any 
other. 

Fried Perch, and other Pax-fish. 

Clean, wash, and diy the fish. Lay them in a large 
flat dish, salt, and dredge with flour. Have ready a frying- 
pan of hot dripping, lard, or butter ; put in as many fish as 
the pan will hold without crowding, and fry to a light 
brown. Send up hot in a chaling-dish. 

The many varieties of pan-fish — porgies, flounders, river 
bass, weak-fish, white-fish, etc., may be cooked in like man- 
ner, In serving, lay the head of each fish to the tcnl of tfu 
one next him. 



riBH. 61 

Stewed Cat-pish. •J* 

Bkia, clean, and cut off tlie horribly Pomely heads 
Bprinkle with salt, to remove any muddy taste thej may 
ha\re contracted from the fiats or holes in which they have 
fed, and let them lie in a cool place for an hour or stx 
Then put them into a saucepan, cover with cold water, aiid 
stew very gently for from half to three-quarters of an hour, 
according to their size. Add a chopped shallot or button- 
onion, a bunch of chopped parsley, a little pepper, a large 
tablespoonful of butter, a ta,blespnonful flour mixed to a 
paste with cold water ; boil up once, take out the fish care- 
I'ully, and lay in a deep dish. Boil up the gravy once 
aoi-e, and pour over the fish. Send to table in a covered 
«/ish. 

Fkied Cat-fish. »J« 

Skin, clean, and remove the heads. Sprinkle with salt, 
and lay aside for an hour or more. Have ready two or 
three eggs beaten to a froth, and, in a flat dish, a quantity 
of powdered cracker. Dip the fish first in the egg, then in 
the cracker, and fry quickly in hot lard or drippiiag. Take 
up as soon as done. 

Cat-fish cooked in this manner are sweet and savory — 
a trifle too rich for delicate persons, but very nice for those 
who are blessed with good digestions. 

Cat-fish Chowder. 

Skin, clean, and cut off the heads. Cut the fish into 
pieces t^o inches long, and put into a pot with some fat 
pork uut into shreds — a pound to a dozen medium-sized 
fish, two chopped onions, or half a dozen shallots, a bunch 
•>{ Bweet herbs, and pepper. The pork wUl salt it suffi- 
ciently. Stew slowly for three-qxiarters of an hour. Then 
stir in it cup of milk, thickened with a tablespoonful of 



68 _ COMMON SENSE. 

(lour ; take up a cupful of the hot liquor, and stir, a litde al 
a time, iato two well-beaten eggs. Eeturn this to the pot , 
tlu-ow in half a dozen Boston or butter crackers, split iu 
half; let all boil up once, and turn into a tuiren. Paai 
Bliced lemon, or cucumber pickles, also sliced, with it. Take 
out the backbones of the fish beforo serving. 

Stewed Eels. »{« 

Inquire, before buying, where they were caught, and 
give so decided a preference to country eels as to refuse 
those fattened upon the offal of city wharves. Nor are the 
largest eels the best for eating. One weighing a pound is 
better for' your purpose than a bulky fellow that weighs 
three. 

Skin and clean, carefully extracting all the fat from the 
inside. Cut into lengths of an inch and a half; put into a 
saucepan, with enough cold water to cover them ; throw in 
a little salt and chopped parsley, and stew slowly, closely cov- 
ered, for at least one hour. Add, at the last, a great spoon- 
ful of butter, and a little flour wet with cold water, also pep- 
per. Serve in a deep dish. The apjsearance and odor of 
this stew are so pleasing as often to overcome the preju 
dices of those who " Wouldn't touch an eel for the world ! 
They look so lik<» snakes ! " And those who have tasted 
once rarely enter a second demun er. 

Fried Eels. 

Prepare as for stewing ; roll in flour, and fry, in hoi 
lard or dripping, to a light brown. 

Chowder [No. 1). •{< 

Take a pound of salt pork, cut into strips, and soak is 
njt water five minutes. Cover the bottom of a pot with s 



FT8H 69 

layer of this. Cut four pounds of cbd or sea-lass Lite 
pieces two iuchos square, aud lay eiioug}i of these on th* 
pork to co^er it. Follow with a layer of chopped onions, 
B Utile parsley, summer savory, and pepper, either black oi 
sayenne. Then a layer of split Boston, or butter, or whole 
wream crackers, which have been soaked in warm water un- 
tdl moist through, but not ready to break. Above this lay 
A stratum of pork, and repeat the order given above — onions, 
seasoning (not too much), crackers, and pork, until your 
materials are exhausted. Let the topmost layer be buttered 
crackers, well soaked. Pour in enough cold water to cover 
all barely. Cover the pot, stew gently for an hour, watch- 
ing that the water does not sink too low. Should it leave 
the upper layer exposed, replenish cautiously from the 
boiling tea-kettle. When the chowder is thoroughly done, 
take out with a perforated skimmer and put into a tureen. 
Tliicken the gravy with a tablespoonful of flour and about 
the same quantity of butter. Boil up and pour over the 
chowder. Send sKced lemon, pickles, and stewed tomatoes 
to the table with it, that the guests may add, if they like 

Chowder (JVo. 2). 

Slice six large onions, and fry them in the gravy of fried 
Bait pork. Cut five pounds of bass or cod into strips three 
inches long and one thick, and line the bottom of a pot with 
them. Scatter a few slices of onion upon them, a little salt, 
half a dozen whole black peppers, a clove or two, a pinch ol 
thyme and one of parsley, a tablespoonful tomato or mush- 
room catsup, and six oysters ; then comes a layer of oystei 
crackers, well-soaked in milk and buttered thickly. Anothei 
layer of fish, onions, seasoning, and crackers, and so on until 
»1I are used up. Cover with water, boil slowly for an hour 
und pour out. Serve with capers and sliced lemon. A cxip oJ 
oyster -liquor add6*l»to the chowder while boiling imj)roves it 



70 COMJrOK SENSE. 

SHELL-FISH. 

To Boil a Lobster. 

Choose a lively one — ^not too large, lest he stcaid l 
kingh. Put a handful of salt into a pot of boiling watei , 
and having tied the claws together, if your fish-m^rchani 
has not already skewered them, plimge him into the pre 
pai-ed bath. He will be restive under this vigorous hydro- 
pathic treatment ; but allay your tortured sympathies by 
the reflection that he is a cold-blooded animal, destitute of 
imagination, and that pain, according to some philosophers, 
exists only in the imagination. However this may be, his 
suflFering will be short-lived. BoU from half an hour to an 
hour, as his size demands. When done, draw oiit the scai-lei 
Innocent, and lay him, face downward, in a sieve to dry 
When cold, split open the body and tail, and crack the clawn 
to extract the meat, throwing away the " lady-fingers " au • 
the head. Lobsters are seldom served without dressing, uj-- 
on private tables, as few persons care to take the trouble o* 
preparing their own salad after taking their seats at th« 
board. 

Devilled Lobster. 

Extract the meat from a boiled lobster, <is for salad, and 
mince it finely; reserve the coral. Season highly with 
mustard, cayenne, salt, and some pungent sauce. -Toss and 
stir until it is well mixed, and put into a porcelain sauce- 
pan (covered), with just enough hot water to keep it from 
burning. Rub the coral smooth, moistening with vinegai 
until it is thin enough to pour easily, then stir into the con 
touts of the saucepan. It is necessary to prepare the dress 
ing, let me say, before the lobster-meat is set on the fira 
£t ought to boil up but once before the coral and vinegai 
*re put in. Next stir in a heaping tablespoonful of butter 



BHELL-FISH. 71 

and when it boils again, take the pan from the fire. Too 
much cooking toughens the meat. This is a famous suppei 
dish for sleighing-parties. 

Lobster Ckoquettes. •{< 

To the meat of a well-boiled lobster, chopped fine, add 
pepper, salt, and powdered mace. Mix with this one-quartei 
as much bread-crumbs, ■well rubbed, as you have meat; 
make into ovates, or poiated balls, with two tablespoonfula 
of melted Imtter. RoU these in beaten egg, then in pulver- 
ized cracker, and fry in butter or very nice sweet lard. Serve 
dry and hot, and garnish with crisped parsley. 

This is a delicious supper dish or entree at dinner. 



Devilled Ceab.J»J« 

This is prepared according to the foregoing receipt- - 
substituting for the coral in the vinegar some pulverized 
cracker, moistened first with a tablespoonful of rich cream 
You can serve up in the back-shell of the crab if you like 
Send in with cream crackers, and stick a sprig of parslej 
in the top of each heap, ranging the shells upon a large fla* 
dish. 

Crab Salad. 

Mince the meat and dress as in lobster salad. Send in 
the back shell of the crab. 

Soft Crabs. •{• 

Many will not eat hard-shell crabs, considering them 
indigestible, and not sufficiently palatable to compensate 
foi the risk they run in eating them. And it must b« 
owned that they are, at their best, but an indifferent sub 
Btituto for the more aristocratic lobster. But in tlie morn 



12 UUMAION SKN8E. 

ing of life, for him so often renewed, his crabship is t 
different creature, and greatly utfected by epicures. 

Do not keep the crabs over night, as the shells harden 
in twenty-four hours. Pull off the spongy substance from 
Uie sides and the sand-bags. These are the only portions 
' shat are uneatable. Wash well, and wipe dry. Have ready 
a pan of seething hot lard or butter, and fry them to a fine 
brown. Put a little salt into the lard. The butter ■«-ill 
»eed none. Send up hot, garnished with parsley. 

"Water-Turtles, or Terrapins. 

Land-terrapins, it is hardly necessary to say, are uneat- 
able, but the large turtle that frequents our mill-ponds and 
divers can be converted into a relishable article of food. 

Plunge the turtle into a pot of boiling water, and lei 
him lie there five minutes. You can then skin the under- 
part easily, and pull off the horny parts of the feet. Laj 
bim for ten minutes in cold salt and water ; then put into 
more hot water — salted, but not too much. Boil until 
tender. The time will depend upon the size and age. 
Take him out, drain, and wipe dry ; loosen the shell carefully, 
not to break the flesh ; cut open also with care, lest yoa 
touch the gall-bag with the knife. Remove this with the 
entrails and sand-bag. Cut up all the rest of the animal 
into small bits, season with pepper, salt, a chopped onion, 
sweet herbs, and a teaspoonful of some spiced sauce, or a 
tablespoonful of catsup — walnut or mushroom. Save the 
juice that runs from the meat, and put all together into 
» saucepan with a closely-fitting top. Stew gently fifteeu 
ijninutes, stirring occasionally, and add a great spoonful of 
butter, or a teaspoonful browned flour wet in cold water, a 
glass of brown sherry, and lastly, the beaten yolk of an 
egg, mixed with a little of the hot liquor, that it mav not 



SHELL-FISn. 78 

vnrdle. BoU up once, and turn into a covered dish. Send 
around green pickles and delicate slices of dry toast with it. 

Drain the liquor from two quarts of firm, plump oysters; 
liiii with it a small teacupful of hot water, add a little salt 
and pepper, and set over the fire in a sancepan. When it 
comes to a boil, add a large cupful of rich milk. (Cream is 
better.) Let it boil up once, put in the oysters, let them 
boil for five minutes or less — not more. When they " ruf- 
fle," add two tablespoonfuls of butter, and the instant it is 
melted and well stirred in, take the saucepan from the fire. 
>Serve with oyster or cream crackers, as soon as possible. 
Oysters become tough and tasteless when cooked too much, 
or left to stand too long after they are withdrawn from the 
fire. A good and safe plan is, to heat the milk in a sepa- 
rate vessel set in another of hot water, and after it is 
mingled with the liquor and oysters, stir assiduously or it 
may " catch," as the cooks say — i. e., scorch on the sides cr 
bottom of the saucepan. 

Fkied Oysters. »J« 

Use for frying the largest and best oysters ■jaa. can find. 
Take them carefully from the liquor ; lay them in rows upon 
a clean cloth, and press another lightly upon them to absorb 
jthe moisture. Ha,ve ready several beaten eggs, and in an- 
other dish some crackers crushed fine. lu the frying-pan 
heat enough nice butter to cover the oysters entirely. Dip 
each oyster first in the egg, then into the cracker, rolling it 
over that it may become completely incrusted. Drop them 
carefully into the frying-pan, and fry quickly to a light 
brown. If the butter is hot enough they will soi.n be ready 
t«f take out. Test it by putting in one oyster before you 
4 



74 COMMON SENSE. 

lisk the rest. Do not let them lie in the pan an instant aftes 
they are done. Serve dry, and let the dish be warm. A 
oUafing'dish is best. 

Oystee Fritters. »}« 

Drain the liquor from the oysters, and to a cupful of thja 
udd the SAms quantity of milk, three eggs, a little salt, and 
flour enough for a thin batter. Chop the oysters and stir 
into the batter. Have ready in the frying-jian a few spoon- 
fuls of lard, or half lard, half butter ; heat very hot, and drop 
the oyster-batter in by the tablespoonful. Try a spoonful 
first, to satisfy yourself that the lard is hot enough, and that 
the fritter is of the right size and consistency. Take rapidly 
from the pan as soon as they are done to a pleasing yellow 
brown, and send to table very hot. 

Some fry the oyster whole, enveloped in batter, one in 
each fritter. In this case, the batter should be thicker than 
if the chopped oyster were to be added. 

Scalloped Oysters. ^J* 

Crush and roll several handfuls of Boston or other fri. 
able crackers. Put a layer in the bottom of a buttereii 
pudding-dish. Wet this with a mixture of the oyster Uquo- 
and milk, slightly warmed. Next, have a layer of oyster" 
Sprinkle with salt and pepper, and lay small bits of butter 
upon them. Then another layer of moistened ci-umbs, and 
to on until the dish is full. Let the top layer be of crumbs, 
thicker than the rest, and beat an egg iijto the milk you 
pour over them. Stick bits of butter thickly over it, coi-ei 
the dish, set it in the oven, bake half an hour ; if the dish 
Is large, remove the cover, and brown by setting it upon the 
upper grating of oven, or by holding a hot shovel over in. 



BHKLL-FIRH. 76 

(.BiiorLED Oysteiis.j»J" 
Chticee luige, fat oysters; wipe tliem very dry; sprinkle 
siJt and cayenne pepper upon tliem, and broil upon one oi 
tlie small gridirons sold for that puri;ose. You can dredge 
tJie oyster with flour if you wish to have it brown, ani soms 
fancy the juices are better kept in in this way. Othem 
dislike the crust thus formed. Butter the gridiron well, 
and let your fire be hot and clear. If the oyster drip, witli- 
draw the gridiron for an instant until the smoke clears 
away. Broil quickly and dish hot, putting, a tinj- piece ol 
butter, not larger tlian a pea, ui)on each oyster, 

CiiEAM Oysters on the Half-sheix. 

Pour into your inner saucepan a cup of hot water, an 
other of mUk, and one of cream, with a little salt. Set intc 
a kettle of hot water until it boils, when stir in two table- 
spoonfuls of butter and a little salt, with white pepper 
Take from the fire and add two heaping tablespoonfuls of ar 
row-root, rice-flour, or corn-starch, wet with cold milk. By 
tliis time your shells should be washed and bvittered, and b 
fine oyster laid within each. Of course, it is selon les reglei 
to use oyster-shells for this purpose ; but you will find clam- 
shells more roomy and more manageable, because more re- 
gular in shape. Range these closely in a large baking-pan, 
propping them with clean pebbles or fragments of shell, if 
they do not seem inclined to retain their contents. Stir the 
cream very hard and fill up each shell with a spoon, taking 
care not to spill any in the pan. Bake five or six minutetj 
in a hot oven after the shells become warm. Serve on tho 
shell. Some substitute oyster-liquor for the water in th« 
mixture, and use all milk instead of oream. 



Tt) COMMON SENSE. 

Oyster C'melet. »!• 

12 oysters, if large ; double the number of siia.1 ones. 

6 (iggs. 

1 cup milk. 

1 tablespoonful butter. 

Chopped parsley, salt, and pepper. 

Chop the oysters very finely. Beat the yolks and whiteg 
of the eggs separately as for nice cake — the white until it 
Btands in a heap. Put three tablespoonfuls of butter in a 
frying-pan, and heat while you are mixing the omelet. Stir 
the milk into a deep dish with the yolk, and season. Next 
|,'it in the chopped oysters, beating vigorously as you add 
them gradually. When they are thoroughly incorporated, 
pour in the spoonful of melted butter ; finally, whip in the 
whites lightly and with as few strokes as possible. If the 
oiitter is hot, and it ought to be, that the omelet may not 
Btaud uncooked, put the mixture into the pan. Do not stir 
it, but when it begins to stiffen — " to set," in culinaiy 
phrase, slip a broad-bladed, round-pointed dinner-knife 
around the sides, and cautiously under the omelet, that the 
butter may reach every part. As soon as the centre ia 
fairly " set," turn out into a hot dish. Lay the latter bot- 
tom upward over the frying-pan, which must be turned up 
Bide-down dexterously. This brings the browned side a' 
the omelet uppermost. This omelet is delicious and easily 
made. 

Oyster Pie. »J« 

M.Mke a rich puff-paste ; roll out twice as thick as for u 
truit 7 ie for the top-crust — about the ordinary thickness for 
the lo wer. Line a pudding-dish with the thinner, and fill 
with crusts of dry bread or light crackers. Some use a 
folded towel to fill the interior of the pie, but the above 
txpetliont ia preferable. Butter the edges of the dish, that 



8UEI.L FISH. 77 

you may be able to lift the upper cnist ^vithout breaking, 
Cover the mock-pie with the thick crust, ornamented heavily 
at the edge, that it may lie the more quietly, and bake. 
Cook the oysters as for a stew, only beating into them a< 
tlie last two eggs, and thickening with a spoonful of fin? 
cracker-crumbs or rice-flour. They should stew but five 
minutes, and time them so that the paste will be baksd just 
in season to receive them. Lift the top crust, poiu- in the 
smoking hot oysters, and send up hot. 

I know that many consider it unnecessary to prepare the 
oysters and crust separately ; but my experience and obser- 
vation go to prove that, if this precaution be omitted, the 
oysters are apt to be wofuUy overdone. The reader caa 
try both methods and take her choice. 

V Pickled Oysters.\»J« 

100 large oysters. 

1 pint white wine vinegar. 

1 doz. blades of mace. 

2 doz. whole cloves. 

2 doz. whole black peppers. 

1 large red pepper broken into bits. 

Put oysters, liquor and all, into a porcelain- or bell-metal 
kettle. Salt to taste. Heat slowly until the oysters are 
very hot, but not to boiling. Take them out with a perfo- 
rated skimmer, and set aside to cool. To the liquor which 
remains in the kettle add the vinegar and spices. Boil up 
fairly, and when the oysters are almost cold, pour over them 
scalding hot. Cover the jar in which they are, and put 
away in a cool place. Next day put the pickled oysteis into 
glass cans with tight tops. Keep in the dark, and wnere 
tliey are not liable to become heated. 

I, have kept oysters thus prepared for three weeks in th« 



78 CX3MM0N SENSE. 

winter. If yon open a can, use the contents up as s(.on 
BS practicable. The air, like the light, will turn thesio 
dark. 

It is little trouble for every housekeeper to put up the 
pickled oysters needed ia her family ; and besides the satis- 
faction she will feel in the consciousness that the materials 
used are harmless, and the oysters sound, she will save a* 
least one-third of the price of those she would buy ready 
pickled. The coloi-less vinegar used by " professionals " fot 
such purposes is usually sulphuric or pyroHgneous acid. li 
you doubt this, pour a little of the liquor from the pickled 
oysters put up by your obliging oyster-dealer into a bell- 
metal kettle. I tried it once, and the result was a liquid 
that matched the clear green of Niagara in hue. I cannot 
compare it justly with anything else. 

Roast Oysters. 

There is no pleasanter frolic for an Autumn evening, in 
the regions where oysters are plentiful, than an impiomptu 
" roast " in the kitchen. There the oysters are hastily 
thrown into the fire by the peck. You may consider that 
your fastidious taste is marvellously respected if they are 
washed first. A bushel basket is set to receive the empty 
shells, and the click of the oyster-knives forms a constant 
accompaniment to the music of laughing voices. Nor are 
roast oysters amiss upon your own quiet supper-table, when 
the " good man " comes in on a wet night, tired and hungry, 
and wants " something heartening.'' Wash and wipe the 
Bhell-oysters, and lay them in the oven, if it is quick ; upou 
the top of the stove, if it is not. When they open, thoy 
are done. Pile in a large dish and send to table. Remove 
the upper shell by a dextero\is wrench of the knife, season 
the oyster on the lower, with popper-sauce and butter, or 
poj.'jor, salt, and vinegar in lieu of the sauce, and you ha^t 



SHBLL-FISH. 7P 

khe yery aroma of tLis pearl of bivalves, piire and unde 
filed. 

Or, you may open while raw, leaving the oystei'S npor 
the lower shells ; lay in a large baking-pan, and roast in theL 
own liquor, adding pepper, salt, and butter before serving. 



Raw Oysters, 



It has become quite fashionable to serve these as one of 
the preliminaries to a dinner-party ; sometimes in smaU 
plates, sometimes on the half-shell. They are seasoned by 
each guest according to his own taste. 

Steamed Oysters. 

If you have no steamei, improvise one by the help of a 
•.ttUender and a pot-lid fitting closely into it, at a little 
'iListaDoe from the top. "Wash some shell oysters and lay 
khem in such a position in the bottom of the cullender that 
v.he liquor will not escape from them when the shell opens, 
-ihat is, with the upper shell down. Cover with a cloth 
=;f j-own over the top of the cullender, and press the lid hard 
'i ,wn upon this to exclude the air. Set over a pot of boil- 
ing water so deep that the cullender, which should fit into 
tlie mouth, does not touch the water. Boil hard for twenty 
iiiiniites, then make a hasty examination of the oysters. If 
tjioy are open, you are safe in removing the cover. Serve 
on the half-shell, or upon a hot chafing-dish. S[)rinkle a 
little salt over them and a few bits of butter; hxit be quick 
m whatever you do, for the glory of the steair ed oyster is it 
be eaten hot. ^ , 

[Oyster PATfis.j»}« 

1 qt. oysters. 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 
Pepper, and a pinch of salt. 



80 OOSCMON SENSK. 

Set the oysters, with enough liquor to cover them, in i 
sauceiiamiiion the range or stove; let them come to a boil; 
skim weU, and stir iii the butter and seasoning. Two oi 
three spoouf-iis or arearo •n'ili improve them. Have rea Ij 
small tins Uned with pulTpaste. Put three or four oysb-rt 
iji estch, according, to the size of tLc pdtf. ; cover with paste 
and bake in a quick oven twenty .tuiuuLes b''or ojjen pdtes, 
cut '}he paste into round "akes : .t'losc intended for the bot- 
ton-, cnist Jess than hflf a,n inch thick ; for the upper, a lit- 
tle tliicker With a smaller cutter, remove a round of pastt 
from \,he middle of the latter, leaving a neat ring. Lay 
tliis ••.arefuUy upon the bottom crust ; place a second ring 
upon' ihis, that ttie cavity may be deep enough to hold the 
oysters; lay the pieces you have extracted also in the 
pan with the rest, and bake to a fine brown in a quick oven. 
When done, wash over with beaten egg, around top and all, 
and set in the oven three minutes to glaze. Fill the cavity 
VI ith a mixture pi'epared as below, fit on the top lightly, and 
serve. 

Mixture. 

To half the liquor from a quart of oysters add an e4ua] 
quantity of milk, and let it come to a boil. Put in all the 
oysters, leaving out the uncooked liquor ; heat to boiling, 
and stir in — 

1 tablespoonful butter. 

2 tablespoonfuls corn-starch, wet with a little milk. 
A little salt. 

Boil four minutes, stirring all the time until it thirkena 
wid fill the cavity in tlie paste shells. These pdth are vorj 



BHEIL-jrJH. 81 



Scallops. 



The heart is the cnly part used. If you buy them ic 
the shell, boil and take out the hearts. Those sold iu o 'i 
markets are generally ready for frying or stewing. 

Dip them in beaten egg, then in cracker-crumbs, and 
67 ill hot lard. 

Or, 

You may stew like oysters. The fried scallops are gen 
eraUy preferred. 

ScALLorED Clams. 

Chop the clams fine, and season with pepp<>r and salt. 
Cavenne pepper is thought to give a finer flavor than black 
or white ; but to some palates it is insufierable. Mix in 
another dish some powdered cracker, moistened first with 
warm milk, then with the clam liquor, a beaten egg or two, 
and some melted butter. Stir in with this the chopped 
clams. Wash as many clam-shells as the mixture will fill ; 
%vipe and butter them ; fill, heaping up and smoothing over 
with a silver knife or tea-spoon. Range in rows in your 
baking-pan, and cook nntU nicely browned. Or, if you do 
not care to be troubled with the shells, bake in patty-pans, 
sending to table hot in the tins, as you would the scallop- 
shells. 

Clam Fritters. "J" 

12 clams, minced fine. 
1 pint of milk. 
3 eggs. 

Add the liquor from the clams to the milk ; beat up the 
Bi»gB and put to this, with salt and pepper, and flour enough 
for thin batter ; lastly, the chopped clams. Fry in hot lardj 
trying a little first to see that fa . and batter are right. A 
tablespoonful will make a fritter of moderate size. Or, yoi 
4* 



83 COMJION SENSE. 

3an liip the whole clams in batter and cook in like mannei 
Fry ijuickly, or they are apt to be too greasy. 

Clam Chowder. 

Fry five or six slices of fat pork crisp, and chop to 
pieces. Sprinkle some of th^se in the bottom of a pot; 
lay upon them a stratxim of clams ; sprinkle with cayenne 
or Mack pepper and salt, and scatter bits of bntter profuse- 
ly over all; next, have a layer of chopped onions, then one 
of small crackers, split and moistened with wai-m milk. On 
these -pour a little of the fat left in the pan after the pork 
is fried, and then comes a new round of pork, clams, onion, 
etc. Proceed in this order until the pot is nearly full, 
'vhen cover with water, and stew slowly — the pot closely 
covered — for three-quarters of an hour. Drain oft' all the 
Ucjuor that will flow fi-eely, and, when you have tiinied the 
uhowder into the tureen, return the gi"avy to the pot. 
Thicken with flour, or, better still, pounded crackers ; add 
u glass of wine, some cats\ip, and spiced sauce ; boil up, 
Add pour over the contents of the tureen. Send around 
walnut or butternut pickles with it. 



POULTRY, 



Poultry should never be eaten in less than six ov eight 
hours after it is killed ; but it should be picked and drawn 
as soon as possible. Tliere is no dii-er disgrace to our 
Noi'them markets than the practice of sending whole dead 
fowls to market. I have bought such from responsible 
poultry-dealers, and found them uneatable, from having re- 
maini-d undrawn until the flavor of the craw aird intestinei 
had impregnated the whole body. Those who are conver 
sant with the habit of careful country housewi%es, of keep 



PO0LTBT. 83 

ing ap a fowl withoac food for a day and niglit before kill 
ing aaJ dressing for their own eating, cannot but regard 
with disgust the surcharged crops and puffy sides of thosf 
Bold hy weight in the shambles. If you want to know what 
you really pay for poultry bought in these circumstances, 
weigh the offal extracted from the fowl by your cook, and 
dndiict from the market weight. " But don't you know it 
actually poisons a fowl to lie so long undressed ? " once ex- 
claimed a Southern lady to me. " In our markets they are 
offeied for sale ready picked and drawn, with the giblets — 
also cleaned — tucked under their wings." 

1 know nothing about the poisonous nature of the en- 
•rails and crops. I do asyjrt that the custom is unclean 
•lad unjust. And this I do without the remotest hope of 
■I'ousing my fellow-housekeepers to remonstrance against 
irttablished usage. Only it relieves my mind somewhat to 
RTumble at what I cannot help. The best remedy I can 
propose for the grievance is to buy Kve fowls, and, before 
Bonding them home, ask your butcher to decapitate them ; 
siie probabilities being greatly in favor of the supposition 
that your cook is too "tinder-hearted" to attempt the job. 

One word as to the manner of roasting meats and fowls. 
In tliis day of ranges and cooking-stoves, I think I am 
speaking within bounds when I assume that not one house- 
keeper in fifty uses a spit, or even a tin kitchen, for such 
[imposes. It is in vain that the writers of receipt-books 
Inform us with refreshing naivete that all our meats are 
baked, not roasted, and expatiate upon the siiperior flavor 
of those pre])ared upon the EngJisli spits and in old-fa*;h- 
ionod kitchens, where enormous wood-fires blazed from 
morning until night. I shall not soon forget my perplex- 
ity when, an inexperienced housekeeper and a firm beUevei 
In all " that was wiit " by older and wiser people, I stood 
before my neat Mott's " Defiance," a. fine siiloin of beef 



64 COMMON 8SNSB. 

ready to be cooked on the table behind me, and read front 
my Instruction-book that my " fire should extend at least 
eight inches beyond the roaster on either side ! " I am not 
denying the virtues of spits and tin kitchens — only regret- 
ting that they are not within the reach of every one. It 
view of this fact, let me remai-k, for the benefit of tho un- 
fortunate many, that, in the opinion of excellent judges, the 
practice of roastiRg meat in close ovens has advantages. 
Of these I need mention but two, to wit, the preservation 
of the flavor of the ai-ticle roasted, and the prevention of 
its escape to the ujjper regions of the dwelling. 

The directions hereafter given touching roasting will 
apply either to turnspit, " kitchens," or ovens. 

KoAST Turkey. 

After drawing the turkey, rinse out with several waters, 
and in next to the last mix a teaspoonful of soda. The in 
side of a fowl, especially if puichased in the market, is 
Bouietimes very sour, and imparts an unpleasant taste to the 
stuffing, if not to the inner part of the legs and sido bones. 
The soda will act as a coirective, and is moreover very 
cleansing. Fill the body with this water, shake well, empty 
it out, and rinse with fair water. Then prepare f- dressing 
of bread-crumbs, mixed with butter, pepper, salt, thyme or 
Bweet marjoram, and wet with hot water or milk. You 
may, if you like, add the beaten yolks of two eggs. A little 
chopped sausage is esteemed an improvement when well in- 
corporated ^^^.th the other ingredients. Or, mince a dozen 
oystei-s and stir into the dressing ; and, if you are partial to 
the taste, wet the bread-crumbs with the oyster-Hquor. 
The effect upon the turkey-meat, particularly that of the 
Ijieast, is very pleasant. 

Stufl' the craw with this, and tie a string tightly aboul 
the neck, to prevent the esoaj>e of the stuffing. Then fiU 



POULTEY. 8S 

thu body of the tmkey, and sew it up with strong tkiead 
This aud the neck-string are to be removed when the fowi 
is dished. In roasting, if your fire is brisk, allow about ten 
minutes to a pound ; but it will depend very much upon 
the turkey's age whether this rule holds good. Dredge it 
with flour before roasting, and baste often ; at first with 
butter and water, afterward with the gravy in the dripping- 
pan. If you roast in an oven, and lay the turkey in tho 
pan, put in with it a teacup of hot water. Many roast al- 
ways upon a grating placed on the top of the pan. In that 
case the boiling water steams the underj)art of the fowl, 
and prevents the skin from drying too fast, or cracking. 
Koast to a fine bro^vn, and if it threaten to darken too 
rapidly, lay a sheet of white paper over it until the lower 
part is also done. 

Stew the chopped giblets in just enough water to cover 
them, and when the turkey is lifted from the pan, add 
these, with the water in which they were boiled, to the 
drippings ; thicken with a spoonful of browned flour, wei 
with cold water to prevent lumping, boil up once, and pour 
into the gra\'y-boat. If the turkey is very fat, skim the 
drippings well before putting in the giblets. 

Serve with cranberry sauce. Some lay fried oysters in 
tjB dish ai-ound the turkey. 

Boiled Turkey. 

Chop about two dozen oysters, and mix with them a 
dressing compounded as for roast turkey, only with more 
butter, and wet with the oyster-liquor and a like quantity 
of milk. StufT the turkey as for roasting, craw and body, 
and baste about it a thin cloth, fitted closely to eveiy part. 
The inside of the cloth should be dredged with flour to pre 
rent the fowl from sticking to it. AUo^y fifteen minuteii U 
1 [loiind, and boil slowly. 



86 COMMON SEN S3. 

Serve witft oyster-sauce, made by adding to a cupful of 
the liquor in -vrhich the turkey was boiled, the same quAii 
fcity of milk ajid eight oysters chopped fine. Season with 
minced parsley, stir in a spoonful of rice or wheat flour, wef 
with cold milk, a tablespoonful of butter. Boil up once ano 
jioiir into an oyster-tureen. Send around celery with it. 

Turkey Scallop. ►{« 

Cut the meat from the bones of a cold boiled or roasted 
turkey left from yesterday's dinner. Remove the bits of 
skin and gristle, and chop up the rest very fine. Put in 
the bottom of a buttered dish a layer of cracker or bread- 
crumbs ; moisten slightly with milk, that they may not ab- 
sorb all the gravy to be poui-ed in afterward ; then spread a 
layer of the minced turkey, with bits of the stufiing, pep- 
per, salt, and small pieces of butter. Another layer of 
cracker, wet with milk, and so on until the dish is nearb 
fidl. Before putting on the topmost layer, pour in the 
gravy left from the tui-key, diluted — should there not be 
enough — with hot water, aL.d seasoned with Worcester 
shire sauce, catsup, and butter. Have ready a crust of 
cracker-crumbs soaked in warm milk, seasoned with salt 
and beaten up light with two eggs. It shoiild be just thick 
enough to spread smoothly over the top of the scallop. 
Stick bit? of butter plentifully upon it, and bake. Turn a 
deep plate over the dish until the contents begin to bub- 
ble at the sides, showing that the whole is thoroughly 
cooked ; then remove the cover, and brown. A large pud- 
ding-dish full of the mixture will be cooked ur three-quar- 
"j&ra of an hour. 

This, like many other economical dishes, will prove i?« 
savory as to claim a frequent appearance upon any t.^blo. 

Gold chicken may be prepared in the same way ; 



l-OULTKT. 81 

Or, 
The miQced turkey, dressing, and cracker-ci-umbs maj 
be wot with gravy, two eggs beaten into it, and the lorca 
meat thus made rolled into oblong shapes, dipped in egg 
and pounded cracker, and fried like croquettes, foi a side 
dish, to " make out " a dinner of ham or cold meat. 

RagoCt of Turkey. 

Tliis is also a cheap, yet nice dish. Cut the cold 
hirkey from the bones and into bits an inch long with knife 
and fork, tearing as little as possible. Put into a skillet oi 
saucepan the gravy left from the roast, with hot water to 
dilute it should the quantity be small. Add a lump of 
butter the size of an egg, a teaspoonful of pungent sauce, 
& half-teiis]ioonful of cloves, a large pinch of nutmeg, with 
R little salt. Let it boil, and put in the meat. Stew very 
slowly for ten minutes — not more — and stir in a table- 
Kpoonfiil of cranberry or currant jelly, another of browned 
•lour wliich has been wet with cold water ; lastly, a glass 
iii brown sliei ry or Madeira. Boil up once, and serve in a 
Rovered ilisli for breakfast. Leave out the stuffing entire- 
ly ; it is no improvement to the flavor, and disfigures the 
ajjpfiuance of the ragout. 

Roast Chickens. 

Having picked and drawn them, wash out well in two 
or thi'ee waters, adding a little soda to the last but one 
should any doubtful odor linger about the cavity. Prepax's 
a stuffing of bread-ciTuiibs, butter, pepper, salt, &c. Fill 
the bodies and crops of tlie chickens, which should be 
yomig and plump ; sew them up, and roast an hour or more, 
in proportion to their size. Baste two or three times with 
OHtter and water, afterward with their own giavy. 1/ 



88 OOMMVJN 8ENSE. 

laid flat wittin the dripping-pan, put in at the first a Iittl« 
hot water to prevent burning. 

Stew the giblets and necks in enough water to covei 
them, and, when you have removed the fowls to a hot dish, 
pour this into the drippings ; boil up once ; add the gib- 
lets, chopped fine ; thicken with browned flcur ; boil again, 
and send to table in a gravy-boat. 

Serve with crab-apple jelly or tomato sauce. 

Boiled Chickens. 

Clean, wash, and stufi' as for roasting. Baste a floured 
cloth around each, and put into a pot with enough boiling 
water to cover them well. The hot water cooks the skin at 
once, and prevents the escape of the juices. The broti- 
will not be so rich as if the fowls are put on in cold water 
but this is a proof that the meat will be more nutrition ■ 
and better flavored. Stew very slowly, for the first haU 
hour especially. . Boil an hour or more, guiding yoursell 
by size and toughness. 

Serve with egg or bread sauce. (See Sauces.) 

Fricasseed Chicken. (White.) »{• 

Clean, wash, and cut up the fowls, which need not be sc 
tender as for roasting. Lay them in salt and water for 
half an hour. Put them in a pot with enough cold water 
to cover them, and half a pound of salt pork cut into thin 
strips. Cover closely, and let them heat very slowly ; then 
Btew for over an hour, if the fowls are tender. I hav- 
used chickens for this purpose that required four hoursi 
stewing, but they were tender and good when done. Only 
put them on in season, and cook very slowly. If they hoil 
fast, they toughen and shiink into uneatableness. Whea 
tender, add a chopped onion or iwo, parsley, aiiJ pepper 



POITLTET. 89 

Cover closely again, and, when it has heated to bcilingj stii 
in a Ifiacupfiil of milk, to which have been added two beatea 
egga and two tablespoonfuls of flonr. Boil np fairly ; add a 
great spoonful of butter. Arrange the chicken neatly in a 
deep chafing-dish, ponr the giuvy over it, and serve. 

In this, as in all cases where beaten egg is added to hot 
liquor, it is best to dip out a few spoonfuls of the latter, 
and drop a little at a time into the egg, beating ai the 
wliUe, that it may heat evenly and gradually before it is 
put into the scalding contents of the saiJce])an or pot. 
Eggs managed in this way will not curdle, as they are apt 
to do if throiATi suddenly into hot liquid. 

Fkicasseed Chicken. {Brown.') •J^ 

Clean, wash, c\it up, and skin a pair of young chickens. 
Lay in clear water for half an hour. If they are old, you 
cannot brown them well. Put them in a saucepan, with 
enough cold water to cover them well, and set over the fire 
to heat slowly. Meanwhile, cut half a pound of salt pork, 
into strips, and fry crisp. Take them out, chop fine, and 
put into the pot with the chicken. Fry in the fat left in 
the frying-pan one large onion, or two or three small ones, 
cut into Slices. Let them brown well, and add them also 
to the chicken, with a teaspoonful of allspice and one of 
cloves. Stew all together slowly for an hour or more, tmtil 
the meat is very tender ; you car test this with a fork. 
Take out the pieces of fowl and put in a hot dish, covering 
closely until the gravy is ready. Add to this a grea< spoon- 
ful of walnut or other dark catsup, and nearly three tablo- 
gpoonfuls of browned flour, a little chopped parsley, and a 
glass of brown shen-y. Boil up once ; strain through a 
cullender, to remove the bits of pork and onion ; return to 
the pot, with the chicken ; let it come to a final boil, and 
serve, pouring the gi-avy over the pieces of fowl. 



toO COMMON SENSE. 

Broiled Chicken. 

It is possible to render a tough fowl eatable by Doiling 
ct stewing it with care. Never broil such ! An 1 evei. 
(vhen assured that your " broiler " is young, it is wise t-c 
make this doubly svire by laying it upon sticks extending 
from side to side of a dripping-pan fvUl of boiling water. 
Set this in the oven, invert a tin pan over the chicken, and 
let it steam for half an hour. Tliis process relaxes the 
muscles, and renders supple the joints, besides preserving 
the juices that would be lost in parboiling. The chicken 
'ihould be split down the back, and wijjed perfectly dry 
"oefore it is steamed. Transfer from the vapor-bath to a 
Duttered gridiron, inside downward. Cover with a tin pan 
lor common plate, and broil until tender and brown, turning 
(leveral times ; from half to three-quartei-s of an hour will 
be sufficient. Put into a hot chafing-dish, and butter very 
weU. Send to table smoking hot. 

Fried Chicken {No. 1). 

Clean, wash, and cut to pieces a couple of Spring chick- 
ens. Have ready in a frjdng-pan enough boiling lard or 
dripping to cover them well. Dip each jaece in beaten ogg 
when you have salted it, then in cracker-crumbs, iind fry 
until brown. If the chicken is large, steam it before fry- 
ing, as db'eoted in the foregoing receipt. When you have 
taken out the meat, throw into the hot fat a dozen sprigs 
of parslej', and let them i-emain a minvite — just long enough 
to cripp, but not tc dry them. Garnish the chicken by 
itr«wing these ove* it. 

Fried Chicken {No. 2). 

Cut up half a pound of fat salt pork in a frying-pan, 
Mid fry until tlie giease is extracted, but not until it 



pouLi^Br. 91 

browts. Wash and cut ijp a young cliicken (broiling size) ; 
soak in salt and water for half an hour ; wipe dry, season 
with pepper, and dredge with flour ; then fry in the hoi 
fat until each piece is a rich brown on both sides. Take 
up, drain, and set aside in a hot covered dish. Pour into 
the gravy left in the frying-pan a cuj) of milk — half eietici 
is better ; thicken with a spoonful of flour and a tal le- 
spoonful of butter ; add some chopped parsley, boil up, 
and pour over the hot chicken. This is a standard dish in 
the Old Dominion, and tastes nowhere else as it does when 
eaten on Virginia soil. The cream-gravy is often omitted, 
and the chicken served up dry, with bunches of fried pai'S: 
'ey djopped upon it. 

Chicken Pot-pie. 

Line the bottom and sides of a pot with a good rich 
paste, reserving enough for a top ci-ust and for the square 
bits to be scattered thi'ough the pie. Butter tlie pot very 
lavishly, or your pastry will stick to it and b\iru. Cut up 
a fine large fowl, and half a pound of hfun or salt pork. 
Put in a layer of the latter, pepper it, and cover with 
pieces of the chicken, and this with the paste dumphnga 
or squares. If you use potatoes, parboil them before put- 
ting them into the pie, as the first water in which they are 
boiled is rank and unwholesome. The potatoes should be 
sliced and laid next the pastry squares ; then another layer 
of pork, and so on until your chicken is used up. Cover 
with pastry rolled out quite thick, and slit this in the mid- 
dle. H'vat very slowly, and boil two hours. Turn into a 
!aigp iish, the lower crust on top, and the gi'avy about it. 

TJiis is the old-fashioned pot-pie, dear to the memory 
of men who were school-boys thirty and forty years ago. 
[f yon are not expeiienced in such manufactures, you had 
oetter omit tlm lowisr crust ; and, ha\iiig browned thi 



92 COMMON 6EN8E. 

upper, bj putting a hot pot-lid or stove-cover on top ol 
the pot for some minutes, remove dexterously without 
breaking. Pour out the chicken into a dish, and set th« 
crust above it. 

Veal, beef-steak, lamb (not mutton), hares, &c., may bi 
Eiibstituted for the chicken. The pork wiU salt it Buffi 
ciently. 

Baked Chicken Pie ►{» 

Is made as above, but baked in a buttered pudding-dish, 
and, in place of the potatoes, three hard-boiled eggs are 
chopped up and strewed among the pieces of chicken. If 
the chickens are tough, or even doubtful, parboil them be- 
fore making the pie, adding the water in which they were 
boiled, instead of cold water, for gravy. If they are lean, 
put in a few bits of butter. Omament with leaves cut out 
with a cake-cutter, and a star in the centre. Bake an hour 
— more, if the pie is large. 

Chicken Pudding "J* 

Cut up as for fricassee, and parboil, seasoning well with 
pepper, salt, and a lump of butter the size of an egg, to 
each chicken. The fowls should be young and tender, and 
divided at every joint. Stew slowly for half an hour, take 
them out, and lay on a flat dish to cool. Set aside the 
water in which they were stewed for your gravy. 

Miike a batter of one quart of mUk, three cups of fl;oT, 
three tablespoonfiils melted butter, half a teaspoonful unH^, 
and one spoonful of cream tartar, with four eggs well be.'tfln, 
and a little salt. Put a layer of chicken in tlie botto i of 
the dish, and pour about half a cupful of batter over it- 
enough to conceal the meat ; then, another layer of chit ken, 
and more batter, until the dish is full. The batter Jiiust 
form the crust. Bake one Lour, in a moderate ovea, ii tL< 
lUsh is large. 



rocLTKy. 9a 

Beat uji an egg, aiid stir into the gravy wliLuh was set 
wide ; tldcken with two teaspoonfuls of rice or wheat flour^ 
ttdd a little chopi^ed parsley ; boil up, and send it to table 
in a gi'avy-boat. 

Chicken and Ham. *{•» 

Draw, -wash, and stuff a pair of young fowls. Cut 
enough large, thick slices of cold boUed ham to envelop 
these entirely, wrapping them up carefully, and winding a 
string about all, to prevent the ham from falling off. Put 
into your dripping-pan, with a little water to prevent 
scorching ; dashing it over the meat lest it should dry and 
fihrink. Invei-t a tin pan over all, and bake slowly for one 
hour and a quarter, if the fowls are small and tender — 
longer, if tough. Lift the cover from time to time to baste 
with the drippings- — the more frequently as time wears on. 
Test the tenderness of the fowls, by sticking a fork through 
the ham into the breast. When done, undo the strings, 
lay the fowls in a hot dish, and the slices of ham about 
ihem. Stir into the dripjiing a little chopped parsley, a 
tablespoonful of browned flour wet in cold water ; pepper. 
Mid let boil up once. Pour some of it over the chickens — 
uot enough to float the ham in the dish ; serve the rest in 
B gravy-boat. /- \ 

[EoAST Ducks. ) 

Clean, wash, and wipe the ducks very carefully. To the 
usual dressing add a littli sage (powdered or green), and 
a minced shallot. Stuff, au'l sew up as usual, reserving the 
giblets for the gi'avy. If they are tender, thoy will not re- 
quire more than an hour to roast. Baste well. Skim the 
gi-avy before putting in the giblets and thickening. The 
giblets should be stewed in a very little water, then chopped 
fine, and added to the gi'avy in the dripping-pan, with a 
chopi>ed shallot and a sjioonful of browned flour 

Acsorapany with currant or grape jelly. 



M CUMMON SENSE. 

To Use up Cold Duck. »{< 

I may say, as preface, that cold duck is in itself an ex 
ce"Jent siii)per-dish, or side-dish, at a fi^mily dinner, and ia 
ofl en preferred to hot. If the duck has been cut into at all, 
di-\ide neatly into joints, and slice the breast, laying slices 
of dressing about it. Garnish with lettuce or parsley, and 
eat with jeUy. 

But if a warm dish is desired, cut the meat from the 
bones and lay it in a saucepan, with a little mmced cold 
ham ; pour on just enough water to cover it, and stir in a 
tablespoonful of butter. Cover, and heat gradually, until 
it is near boiling. Tlien add the gravy, diluted with a little 
hot water ; a gi-eat spoonful of catsup, one of Worcester- 
shire sauce, and one of currant or cranberry jelly, with a 
glass of wine alid a tablespoonful of browned flour. 

Or, 

You may put the gi'avy, with a little hot water and a lump 
of butter, in a fiying-pan, and when it is hot lay in the 
pieces of duck, and warm up quickly, stirring in at tho 
last a teaspoonful of Worcestersliii'e sauce and a table 
spoonful of jelly. 

Serve ui a hot chafing-dish. 

(For wild ducks, see Game.) 

Stewed Duck. 

This is a good way to treat an old and tough fowL 
Clean and divide, as you would a chicken for fricassee 
Put into a saucepan, with several (minced) slices of old 
ham or salt pork which is not too fat, and stew slowly foj 
at least an hour — keeping the lid on all the whUe. Then 
BTir in a large cliopped onion, a half-spoonful of powdered 
eage, or a whole spoonful of the green leaves cut fine, ha'f 



POULTRT. 95 

MS much parsley, a tablospooiifi.il eatsup, and black prjppei 
Stew another lialf-liDur, or until the duck is tender, and 
add a teaspoonfiil brown sugar, and a tablespoonful ol 
browned flour, previously wet with cold water. Boil up 
onoc, and serve in a deep covered dish, with green peas as 
an accompanimem;. 

Guinea Fowls. 

Many are not aware what an excellent article of food 
these speckled Arabs of the poultry-yard are. They are 
kept chiefly for the beauty of theii- plumage, and their deli- 
cious eggs, which are far richer than those of chickens. 

Unless young they are apt to be tough, and the dark 
color of the meat is objected to by those who are not fond 
of, or used to eating game. Cooked according to the fore 
goiug receipt they are very savory, no matter how old thev 
may be. Put them on early, and stew slowly, and goou 
management will bring the desired end to pass. There ia 
nothing in the shape of game or poultry that is not ame- 
nable to this process, providing the salt be omitted until th* 
meat is tender. 

But a pair of young Guinea fowls, stufied and roasted, 
basting them with butter until they are half done, deserv 
an honorable place upon our bill of fare. Season the gravy 
with a chopped shallot, parsley, or summer savory, not 
omitting the ininced giblets, and thicken with browned 
flour. Send around currant, or other tart jelly, with the 
fowL A little ham, minced iine, improves the dressing. 

Roast Goose. 

Clean and wash the goose — not forgetting to put a spoon- 
ful! of scda in next to the last water, rinse out well, and 
wipe the inside quite dry. Add to the usual stufiing of 
bread-crumbs, pepper, salt, etc., a tablespoonful melted but 



yQ COMMON 8ENBE. 

ler, a large-sized onion cliojiped fine, a tablefpojiiful ihop 
[>od sage, the yolks of two eggs, and some minute oits of fat 
[lorJi. Stuff body and craw, and sew up. It -mil takfc fully 
twc. hours to roast, if the fire is strong. Cover the breast 
!jn 111 it is half done with white paper, or a paste of flour and 
fster, removing this when you are ready to brown. 

Make a gi'avy as for roast duck, adding a glass of sherry 
ai Madeira, or (if you can get it) old Port. 

Send to table with cranberry or apple sauce. 

Goose Pie. 

An old goose is as nearly good for nothing as it is possi- 
ble for anything which was once valuable, and is not now 
absolutely spoiled, to be. The best use to put it to is tc 
make it into a j)ie, in the following manner. Put on the 
ancient early in the morning, in cold water enough to cover 
it, unsalted, having cut it to pieces at every joint. Warm it 
up gradually, and let it stew — not boil hard — for four or five 
hours. Should the water need replenishing, let it be done 
from the boiling kettle. Parboil a beef 's tongue (smoked), 
cut into slices nearly half an inch thick ; also slice six hard- 
boiled eggs. Line a deep pudding-dish with a good paste ; 
•ay in the pieces of goose, the giblets chopped, the sliced 
tongue and egg, in consecutive layers ; season with pepper, 
salt, and bits of bvitter, and proceed in this order until the 
dish is fuU. If the goose is large, cut the meat from the 
bones after stewing, and leave out the latter entirelj'. In- 
terspea-se with strips of paste, and fill up with the gravy in 
which the goose was stewed, thickened with floui. Covei 
with a thick paste, and when it is done, brush over the top 
Siith beaten white of egg. 

In cold weather this pie wiU keep a week, and is verf 
good. 



PODL'fRT. 97 

EOAST I'lGKONS. 

Clean, ■wash, and stuff as you would chickens. Lay them 
la rows, if roasted in the oveu, with a little waier ui the 
pan to prevent scorching. Unless they are very fat, baste 
irith butter until they are half done, afterwards with their 
own gra-vy. Thicken the gravy that drips from them, and 
boil up once ; then pour into a gi-avy-boat. The pigeon.i 
should He close together on the dish. 

Stewed Pigeons. 

Pick, draw, clean and stuff as above directed. Put the 
pigeons in a deep pot with enough cold water to cover them, 
and stew gently for an hour, or until, testing them with a 
ifark, you find them tender. Then season with pepper, salt, 
lA few blades of mace, a Kttle sweet maijoram, and a good 
(jiece of butter. Stew, or rather simmer, for five minutes 
*rtnger — then stir in a tablespoonfid of browned flour. Let 
It boil up once ; remove the pigeons, draw out the strings 
with which they were sewed up, and serve, pouring the hot 
gravy over them. A little salt j)ork or ham, cut into strips, 
is an impi'ovement. This should be put in when the pigeons 
have stewed half an hour. 

Broiled Pigeons ob Squabs. 

Young pigeons or " squabs " are rightly esteemed a great 
delicacy. They are cleaned, washed, and dried carefidly with 
a clean cloth ; then split down the back, and broiled like 
chickens. Season with pepper and salt, and butter liberally 
in dishing them. They are in great request in a convalesi 
cent's room, being peculiarly savory and nourishing. 

They may, for a change, be roasted whole, according to 
the receipt for roast pigeons. 
S 



98 COMMON SENBB. 

PiGEOs Pie 
la best made of wild pigeons. (See Game.) 



aiEATS, 
EoAST Beef. 



The best pieces for roasting are the sii-loin and rib piece*. 
The latter are oftenest used by small families. Make jom 
butcher remove most of the hone, and skewer the meat into 
the shape of a round. If you roast in an oven, it is a good 
plan to dash a small cup of hoUing water over the meat in 
first putting it down, letting it trickle into the pan. This, 
for a season, checks the escape of the juices, and aUows the 
meat to get warmed through befoi-e the top dries by said 
escape. If there is much fat upon the upper surface, cover 
with a paste of flour and water imtil it is. nearly done. 
Baste frequently, at first with salt and water, afterward with 
the drippings. Allow about a quarter of an hour to a 
pound, if you like your meat rare ; more, if you prefer to 
have it well done. Some, when the meat is almost done, 
dredge with flour and baste with butter — only once. 

Remove the beef, when quite ready, to a heated dish ; 
skim the drippings ; add a teacupful of boUing water, boil 
up once, and send to table in a gravy-boat. Many reject 
made gravy altogether, and only serve the red Jdquor thai 
runs from the meat into the dish as it is cut. This is th.a 
practice with some — indeed most of our best housekeepei-s. 
If you have made gravy in a sauce-boat, give your guest hi* 
(iioice between that and the juice in the dish. 

Serve with mustard, or scraped horse- radish and vinegar 



BESF. 99 

R0A.ST Beef, with Yorkshire Pudding. »J« 

Bel a piece of beef to roast upon a grating, or several 
Slicks laid across a dripping-pan. Three-quarters of a^ 
hour before it is done, mix the pudding and pour into tht 
pan. Continue to roast the beef, the dripping meanwldla 
falling upon the latter below. When both ai-e done, cut the 
pudding iuto squares, and lay around the meat when dished. 
If there is much fat in the dripping-pan before the pudding 
is ready to be put in, drain it off, leaving just enough to 
prevent the batter from sticking to the bottom. 

Receipt for Pudding. 

1 pint of milk. 

4 eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately. 

2 cups of flour. 

1 teaspoonful salt. 
Be careful, in mixing, not to get the batter too stiff 
This pudding, which the cook who introduced itintomji 
family persisted in calling "Auction pudding," is \«ry 
palatable and popular, and not so rich as would be though't 
from the manner of baking. It should be a yellow -biCvm 
when done. 

Beef-Steak. 

It is not customary to fry beef-steaks for people ■whc 
know what really good cookery is. To speak niore plainly, 
a steak, Mlled by heat and swimming in grease, is a culinary 
solecism, both vulgar and indigestible. 

Cut the steak thick, at least three-quarters of an inch in 
thickness, and if you cannot get tender meat for this pur- 
pose, it is best to substitute some other dish for it. Eat 
liuce tender meat is not ^.Iways to be had, if the piece you 
have purchased is doubtful, lay it on a clean cloth, take a 
blunt heavy carving-knife, if you have not a steak malldt, 



100 COJIHON BEN8E. 

Bnd back closely from one end to the other ; then turn and 
repeat the process upon the other side. The knife should 
be so dull you cannot cut with it, and the strokes not the 
sixtieth part of an inch apart. Wipe, but not wash, and 
ky on a buttered gridiron over a clear fire, turning ver^ 
often as it begins to drip. Do not season until it is done, 
wliich will be in about twelve minutes, if the fire is good 
and the cook attentive. Rub your hot chafing-dish with a 
split raw onion, lay in the steak, salt and pepper on both 
sides, and put a liberal lump of butter upon the upper, 
Then put on a hot cover, and let it stand five minutes to 
draw the juices to the svirface before it is eaten. If you 
have neither chafing-dish nor cover, lay the steak between 
two hot platters for the same time, sending to table without 
uncovering. A gridiron fitting under the grate is better 
than any other. If a gridiron is not at hand, rub a little 
butter upon the bottom of a hot, clean frying-pan, put in 
the meat, set over a bright fire, and turn frequently. This 
will not be equal to steak cooked upon a gridiron, but it is 
Infinitely preferable to the same fried. 

I shall never forget the wondering distrust with which 
my first cook, a sable " professional," watched me when 1 
undertook to show her how to prepare a steak for the third 
breakfast over which I presided as mistress of ceremonies. 
And when, at the end of twelve minutes, I removed the 
meat, " rare and hot," to the heated dish in readiness, her 
Bnifi" of lofty contempt was eloquent as indescribable. 

" Call dat cooked ! Folks 'bout here would 'a had dat 
steak on by day-break !" 

A remark that has been recalled to my mind hundreds 
of times since at the tables of so-called capital housewives. 

riie best — nay, the only pieces for steak are those known 
AS porter-house and sirloin. The former is the more highly 
esteemed by gourmands ; but a really tender sirloin is mort 



BBBF. 101 

Berviceable where there axe several persons in .he family, 
the porter-house having a narrow strip of extremely nic€ 
meat lying next the bone, while the rest is often inferior t* 
any part of the sirloin. 

Beef-steak and Onions. 

Prepare the steak as above directed. While it is broiling 
put three or four chopped onions in a frying-pan with a lit- 
tle beef-dripping or butter. Stir and shake them briskly 
until they are done, and begin to brown. Dish your steak 
and lay the onions thickly on top. Cover and let all stand 
five or six minutes, that the hot onions may impart the re- 
quired flavor to the hot meat. In helping your guests, in- 
quire if they will take onions with the slices of steak put 
upon their plates. I need hardly remind the sensible cook 
how necessary it is to withdraw the gridiron from the fire 
for an iustant, should the fat drip upon the coals below, and 
smoke or blaze. Yet those who have eaten steaks flavored 
with creosote may thank me for the suggestion. 

Beef A-i^a-mode. *J« 

Take a round of beef; remove the bone from the middle, 
and trim away the tougher bits about the edges, with such 
gristle, (fee., as you can reach. Set these aside for soup- 
stock. 

Bind the beef into a symmetrical shape by passing a 
strip of stout muslin, as wide as the round is high, about it, 
and stitching the ends together at one side. Have ready at 
least a pound of fat salt pork, cut into strips as thick aa 
your middle finger, and long enough to reach from top to 
bottom of *ne trussed round. Put a half pint of vinegar 
over the fire in a tin or porcelain saucepan ; season with 
tliree or four minced shallots or button onions, two tear 
snoonfils made mustard, a teaspoonful nutmeg, one ol 



102 COMMON SENSE. 

do-ses, half as much allspice, half- spoonful bkck pepper') 
with a bunch of s'weet herbs minced fine, and a tablespoon- 
fill brown sugar. Let all simmer for five minutes, then boil 
np once, and pour, while scalding hot, upon the strips of 
pork, which should be laid in a deep dish. Let all stand to 
gother until cold. Remove the pork to a plate, and mix with 
Hie liquor left in the dish enough bread-crumbs to makt 
a tolerably stiff force-meat. If the vinegar is very strong, 
dilute with a little water before moistening the crumbs. 
With a long, thin-bladed knife, make perpendicular incisions 
in the meat, not more than half an inch apart, even nearer 
is better; thrvist into these the strips of fat pork, so far 
down that the upper ends are just level with the surface, 
and work into the cavities with them a little of the force- 
meat. Proceed thus until the meat is fairly riddled and 
plugged with the pork. Fill the hole from which the bone 
was taken with the dressing and bits of pork ; rub the up- 
per side of the beef well with the spiced force-meat. Put 
iato a baking-pan, with a little water to prevent burning ; 
turn a large pan over it to keep in the steam, and roast 
slowly for five or six hours, allowing half an hour to each 
pound of meat. If the beef be tough, you had better stew 
the round by putting it in a pot with half enough water to 
cover it. Cover tightly and stew very slowly for six hours ; 
then set in the oven with the gravy about it, and brown 
half an hour, basting frequently. 

. If you roast the round, do not remove the cover, except 
to baste (and this should be done often), until fifteen min- 
utes before you draw it from the oven. Set away with the 
muslin band still about it, and pour the gravy over the meat. 
When cold, lift from the gravy, — which, by the rra.j, 
will be excellent seasoning for your soup-stock, — cut the 
stitches in the muslin girdle, and remov carefully and 
Bcnd the meat to table, cold, garnished with parsley and 



BKRy. lOS 

aasturtiuiu blossoms. CaiTe horizontally, iji slices thin as 
a shaving. Do not offer the outside to any one ; but th« 
second cut will be handsomely marbled with the whit* 
pork, which appearance should continue all the way down. 
I cannot too highly commend this as a side-dish at din 
ner, and a supper and breakfast stand-by. In winter it 
will keep a week and more, and as long in summer, if kepi 
in the refrigerator — except when it is on the table. 

Breakfast Stew of Beef. ►{« 

Cut up two pounds of beef — ^not too lean — into pieces 
a,n inch long ; put them into a saucepan with just enough 
water to cover them, and stew gently for two hours. Set 
away until next morning, when season with pepper, salt, 
sweet maijoram or summer savory, chopped onion, and 
parsley. Stew half an hour longer, and add a teaspoon- 
ful of sauce or catsup, and a tablespoonful of browned 
flour wet up with cold water ; finally, if you wish to have 
it very good, half a glass of wine. Boil up once, and pour 
into a covered deep dish. ■ 

This is an economical dish, for it can be made of the 
liommoner parts of the beef, and exceedingly nice for winter 
breakfasts. Eaten with corn-bread and stewed potatoes, it 
?vill soon win its way to a place in the " stock company " 
of every judicious housewife 

Another Breakfast Dish. 

Cut thin sUces of cold roast beef, and lay them In a tin 
laucepan set in a pot of boiling water. Cover them wil.h 
4 gravy made of three tablespoonfuls of melted butter, 
jne of walnut catsup, a teaspoonful of vinegar, a little sali 
and pepper, a spoonful of currant jelly, a teaspoonful mado 
mustard, and some warij) water. Cijver tightly, and steam 



104 a^MMON 6KKBE. 

for half an hour, keeping the water in the outer vessel ob 
a hard boil. 

If the meat is under-done, this is particularly nice. 

Beef Hash. 

To two parts cold roast or boiled corned beef, chopped 
fine, put one of mashod potatoes, a little pepper, salt, milk, 
and melted butter. Turn all into a fryiag-pan, and stir un- 
til it is heated through and smoking hot, but not until it 
browns. Put into a deep dish, and if stiff enough, shape 
as you would mashod potato, into a hillock. 

Or, you can cease stirring for a few minutes, and let 
a brown crust form on tlie under side; then turn out 
whole into a flat dish, the brown side uppermost. 

Or, mould the mixture into flat cakeS; dip these in 
beaten eggs and fry in hot drippings. 

The remains of beef it-la-mode are very good prepared 
in any of these ways. A little catsup and mustard are an 
improvement to plain cold beef, thus hashed. 

Beef-steak Pie. 

Cut the steak into pieces an inch long, and stew with 
the bone (cracked) in just enough water to cover the meat 
until it is half done. At the same time parboil a dozer, 
potatoes in another pot. If you wish a bottom crust — a 
doubtful question — line a pudding-dish with a good paste, 
made according to the receipt given below. Put in a layer 
of the beef, with salt and pepper, and a very little chopped 
onion; then one of sliced potatoes, with a little butter 
scattered upon them, and so on, until the dish is full 
Pour over all the gravy in which the meat is stewed, hav- 
ing first thrown away the bone and thickened with browned 
flour. Cover with a crust thicker than the lower, leaving 
« slit in the middle. 



BEET 106 

Crust for Meat-Pies. »J« 

1 quart of flour. 

3 tablespoonfuls of lard. 

2-J- cups milk. 

1 teaspoonful of soda wet with hot water, and 
stirred into the milk. 

2 teaspoonfuls of cream-tartar sifted into the dry 
flour. 

1 teaspoonful of salt. 

Work up very lightly and quickly, and do not get 
too stiff. 

Beef-Pie, with Potato Crust. ►{« 

Mince some rare roast beef or cold corned beef, if it ii 
not too salt ; season with pepper and salt, and spread a 
liyer in the bottom of a pudding-dish. Over this put one 
of mashed potato, and stick bits of butter thickly all over 
it ; then another of meat, and so on until you are ready 
for the crust. 

To a large cupful of mashed potato add two tablespoon- 
fuls of melted butter, a weU-beaten egg, two cups of nulk, 
and beat all together until very light. Then work in 
enough flour to enable you to roll out in a sheet — ^not toa 
stiff — and, when you have added to the meat and potato in 
the dish a gravy made of warm water, butter, milt, and 
catsup, with what cold gravy or dripping remains from the 
" roast," cover the pie with a thick, tender crust, cutting a 
Blit in the middle. 

You can use the potato crust, which is very wholesome 
and "ood, for any kind of meat-pie. It looks weU bruslied 
•vei with beaten white of egg before it goes to table. 
5* 



106 COMMON BSNBE. 



Beef's Heakt. 



Wash the heart well, and cut into sqnaies half an iiich 
long. Stew them for ten minutes in enough water to cover 
fchem. Salt the water slightly to di-aw out the blood, and 
throw it away as it rises in scum to the top. Take out the 
meat, strain the liquor, and return the chopped heart to it, 
with a sliced onion, a great spoonful of catsup, some pars 
ley, a head of celery chopped fine, and cayenne pejjpei, 
with a large lump of butter. Stew until the meat is very 
tender, when add a tablespoonfiil of browned flour to 
thicken. Boil up once, .and serve. 

To Corn Beef. 

Riib each piece of beef weU with salt mixed with one- 
tenth part of saltpetre, until the salt lies dry upon the sur- 
fcice. Put aside ia a cold place for twenty-four hours, and 
repeat the process, rubbing in the mixture very thorouglily. 
Put away again \mtil the next day, by which time the 
pickle should be ready. 

5 gallons of water. 

1 gallon of salt. 

4 ounces saltpetre. 

1^ lb. brown sugar. 

Boil this briue ten minutes ; let it get perfectly cold ; then 
pour over the beef, having wiped the latter entirely dry. 

Examine the pickle from time to time to see if it keeps 
well ; if not, take out the meat without delay, wipe it, and 
rub in dry salt, covering it well until you can prepare new 
and stronger brine. 

Boiled Cokned Beef. 

II your pijce is a round, skewer it well into shape, and 
tie it ap with stout tape or twine when you have washed i< 



BEEF. 107 

m three or four -waters and removed all the salt from tha 
outside. Put into a pot, and cover with cold water. Al- 
low, in boiling, about twenty minutes to a pound. Turn 
the meat three times while cooking. 

When done, draia very dry, and serve with drawn but- 
ter in a sauoe-boat. Send around mashed turnips with tha 
meat. They should be boiled ia a separate pot, howeverj 
or they will impart a disagreeable taste to the beef. 

The brisket ia a good piece for a family dinner. 

Beef Tongue, 

Soak over night in cold water when you have washed 
it well. Next morning put into a pot with plenty of cold 
water, and boil slowly until it is tender throughout. This 
you can determine by testing it with a fork. 

When it is cold, pare off the thick skin, cut in round 
slices, and dish for tea, garnishiag with fresh parsley. 

Tongue sandwiches are generally held in higher esteera 
than those made of ham. 

Dried Beef. 

The most common way of serving dried or smoked 
beef is to shave it into thin slices or chips, raw ; but a 
more savory relish may be made of it with little trouble. 

Put the slices of uncooked beef into a frying-pan with 
just enough boiling water to cover them ; set them over 
the fire for ten minutes, drain off all the water, and with s 
knife and fork cut the meat into small bits. Return to 
the pan, which should be hot, with a tablespoonful of but- 
ter «nd a little pepper. Have ready some well-beaten eggs, 
illowiag four to a half-pound of beef; stir them into the 
pan with the minced meat, and toss and stir the mixtura 
for about two minutes. Send to table in a covered dish. 



108 COMMON SENSE. 

MUTTON AJSB LAMB, 
Roast Motton. 

The parts which are usually roasted are :— < 

The shoulder, 

The saddle, or cMne, and 

The loin and hauuch (a leg and part of the loin). 

The leg is best boiled, unless the mutton is young and 
rery tender. Wash the meat well, and dry with a clean 
cloth. Let your fire be clear and strong ; put the meat on 
with a little water in the dripping-pan. If you think well 
of the plan (and I do), let this be a cupful of boiling water 
dashed over the meat when it is first put down to roast, 
and left to trickle into the pan. I have elsewhere explained 
the advantages of the method. Allow, in roastiilg, about 
twelve minutes per pound, if the fire is good. Baste often 
— at fii-st with salt and water, afterward with the gravy. 
If it is in danger of browning too fast, cover with a large 
sheet of white paper. Roast lamb in the same manner, 
but not so long. Skim the gravy well, and thicken very 
slightly with browned flour. Serve with currant jelly. 

Roast Muttov a la Venison. 

A Christmas saddle of mutton is very fine, prepared as 
follows : "Wash it well, inside and out, with vinegar. Do 
not wipe it, but hang it up to dry in a cool cellar. When 
the vinegar has dried off, throw a clean cloth over it, to 
keep out the dust. On Ihe next day but one, take down 
the meat and sponge it over again with vinegar, then put 
it back in its place in the cellar. Repeat this process thi^ec 
times a week for a fortnight, keeping the meat hung in a 
cold place, and covered, except while you are washing it, 
Whon you are ready to cook it, wipe it off with a drj 
doth, but do not wash it. Roast — ^basting for the firai 



MUTTON AKD LAMB. 109 

hour with butter and water; afterward with the gravy, 
and keeping the meat covered with a large tin pan for twc 
hours. A large saddle of mutton will require four hours to 
roast. When it is done, remove to a dish, and cover tc 
keep it hot. Skim the gravy, and add half a teacupful 
of waJnut, mushroom, or tomato catsup, a glass of Ma- 
deira wine, and a tahlespoonful of browned flour. Boil 
up once, and send to table in a sauce-boat. Always send 
around currant or some other tart jelly with roast mutton. 
If properly cooked, a saddle of mutton, prepared in accord- 
ance with these directions, will strongly resemble venison 
in taste. An old Virginia gentleman whom I used to 
know, always hung up the finest saddle his plantation 
could furnish six weeks before Christmas, and had it 
sponged off with vinegar every other day, untU the morn- 
ing of the important 25th ; and the excellence of his mut- 
ton was the talk of the neighborhood. It can certaiidy be 
kept a fortnight anywhere at that season. 

Boiled Mutton. 

"Wash a leg of mutton clean, and wipe dry. Do not 
leave the knuckle and shank so long as to be unshapely. 
Put into a pot with hot water (salted) enough to cover it, 
and boil until you ascertain, by probing with a fork, that 
it is tender in the thickest part. Skim off all the scum aa 
it rises. Allow about twelve minutes to each pound. Take 
from the fire, drain perfectly dry, and serve with melted 
butter, with capers, or nasturtium seed ; or, if you have 
neither of these, some cucumber or gherkin-pickle ttirred 
Into it. If you wish to use the broth for soup, put in very 
little salt while boiling ; if not, salt well, and boil th« meat 
in a cloth. 



110 common sense. 

Mutton Ste^. »{« 

Cut up from tbiee to four pounds of mutton, — the in- 
ferior portions will do as well as any other, — crack th« 
bones, and remove aU the fat. Put on the meat — the 
pieces not more than an inch and a half in length — ^in a poi 
with enough cold water to cover well, and set it where it 
will heat gradually. Add nothiTig else until it has ste^^ed 
an hour, closely covered ; then throw in half a pound of 
salt pork cut into strips, a chopped onion, and some pep- 
per ; cover and stew an hour longer, or until .ne meat ia 
very tender. Make out a little paste, as for the crust of 
a meat-pie ; cut into squares, and drop in the stew. Boii 
ten minutes, and season further by the addition of a little 
parsley and thyme. Thicken with two spoonfuls of flour 
stirred into a cup of cold milk. Boil up once, and serve 
in a tureen or deep covered dish. 

If green com is in season, this stew is greatly improved 
by adding, an hour before it is taken from the fire, the 
grains of half a dozen ears, cut from the cob. 

Try it for a cheap family dinner, and you will repeat 
the experiment often. Lamb is even better for your pur- 
pose than mutton. 

Mutton Chops. 

If your butcher has not done it, — ^and the chances aro 
that he has not, unless you stood by to see it attended to, — 
trim off the superfluous fat and skin, so as to give the 
chops a certain Ktheness and elegance of sbape. Dip each 
in beaten egg, roll in pounded cracker, and fry in hot lard 
or dripping. If the fat is unsalted, sprinkle the chops 
with salt before rolling in the egg. Serve up dry and hot. 

Or, 

You may omit the egg and cracker, and broil on a gridiron 
over a bright fire. Put a Kttle salt and pej-per upon each 



MUTTON AND LAMB. Ill 

(hop, and butter them before they go to table. Cook lamk 
chops in the same way. 

Mutton Cutlets, {^aked.) 

Cut them from the neck, and trim neatly. Lay aside 
the bits of bone and meat you cut off, to msike gravy. 
Pour a little melted butter over the cutlets, and let thom 
lie in it for fifteen minutes, keeping them just warm enough 
to prevent the butter from hardening ; then dip each in 
beaten egg, roll in cracker-crumbs, and lay them in your 
dripping-pan with a very little water at the bottom. Bake 
quickly, and baste often with butter and water. Put on 
ite bones, &c., in enough cold water to cover them; stew, 
and season with sweet herbs, pepjier, and salt, with a spoon- 
ful of tomato catsup. Strain when all the substance ia 
extracted from the meat and bones ; thicken with browned 
ftour, and pour over the cutlets when they are served. 

( Mutton Ham. i 

For a leg of mutton weighing 12 lbs., take — 

1 ounce of black pepper, or -J- ounce of cayenne, 
J lb. brown sugar, 
1 ounce saltpetre, 
li lb. salt. 

The day after the sheep is killed, mix the sugar, pepper, 
and saltpetre, and rub weU into the meat for nearly fifteen 
minutes, until the outer part of it is thoroughly impreg 
Dated with the seasoning. Put the ham into a large earth- 
enware vessel, and cover it with the. salt. Let it remain 
thus for three weeks, turning it every day and basting it 
with the brine ; adding to this, after the first week, a tear^ 
supful of vinegar. When . the ham is removed from th» 
pickle, wash with cold water, then with vinegar, and hang 



112 OOMMOIK SEKBE. 

It up in a cool cellar for a week, at least, before it ii 
used. 

Soak an hour in fair water before boiling. 

Or if you choose to smoke it for severEil days after it if 
corned, it can be chipped and eaten raw, like jerked ven- 
ison or dried beef. 

Most of the receipts aboTC given will apply as well to 
lamb as to mutton. There are several exceptions, however, 
which you will do well to note. Lamb should never be 
boiled except in stews. It is tasteless and sodden cooked 
in this manner, on account of its immaturity. But, on the 
other hand, a lamb-pie, prepared like one of beef or ven- 
ison, is excellent, while mutton-pies have usually a strong, 
tallowy taste, that spoils them for delicate palates. 

Eoast lamb should be eaten with mint sauce (if you 
fancy it), currant jelly, and asparagus or green peas. Let- 
tuce-salad is likewise a desirable accompaniment. 

Mutton or Lamb RECHAuPFfi. »J« 

Out some slices of cold underdone mutton or lamb ; put 
them in a frying-pan with enough gravy or broth to cover 
them. Or, if you have neither of them, make a gravy of 
butter, warm water, and catsup. Heat to boiling, and stir 
in pepper and a great spoonful of currant jelly. Send to 
table in a chafing-dish, with the gravy poured about the 
meat. 

Or, 

You can put a lump of the butter in the bottom of the 
pan, and when it boils, lay in the slices of meat, turning 
them before they have time to crisp. As soon as they are 
thoroughly heated take them out, lay upon a hot dish 
sprinkle with pepper and salt, and serve with a smaU spoon 
ful of jolly laid upon each. 



VEAJC. lis 



VEAL 



Despite the prejudice, secret or expressed, which p re- 
rails in many minds against veal, — one whioh the wise and 
witty "Country Parson" has as surely fostered amongi 
reading people, as did Charles Lamb the partiality foi 
roast pig, — the excellent and attractive dishes that own tlii* 
as their base are almost beyond number. For soups it is 
invaluable, and in entrees and rechauffes it plays a distin- 
guished part. From his head to- his feet, the animal that 
furnishes us with this important element of success in what 
should be the prime object of cookery, to wit, to please 
while we nourish, has proved himself so useful as an ally 
that it behooves us to lift the stigma from the name of 
"calf," provided he be not too infantine. In that case he 
degenerates into an insipid mass of pulpy muscle and gelar 
tine, and deserves the bitterest sneers that have been flung 

at his kind. 

Roast Veal. 

LOIN. 

Veal requires a longer time to roast than mutton oi 
lamb. It is fair to allow at least a quarter of an hour to 
each pound. Heat gradually, baste frequently — at first 
with salt and water, afterward with gravy. When the 
meat is nearly done, dredge lightly with flour, and baste 
once with melted butter. Skim the gra\7^ ; thicken with a 
teaspoonful of flour, boil up, and put into the gravy-boat. 

Should the meat brown too fast, cover with white paper. 
The juices, which make up the characteristic flavor of meat, 
%re oftener dried out of veal than any other flesh that comei 
to our tables. 

BREAST. 

Make incisions between the ribs and the meat, and fill 
with e force-meat made of fine bread-crumbs, bits of port 



114: COMMON SENSE. 

or liam chopped "exceeding small," salt, pepper, thyme, 
Bweet marjoram, and beaten egg. Save a little to thicken 
vhe gravy. Roast slowly, basting often, and the verdict of 
the eaters will differ from theirs who pronounce this th* 
coarsest part of the veal. Dredge, at the last, with flouT) 
and baste well once with butter, as with the loin. 

FILLET. 

Make ready a dressing of bread-crumbs, chopped thyme 
and parsley ; a little nutmeg, pepper and salt, rubbed to- 
gether with some melted butter or beef suet ; moisten with 
«nilk or hot water, and bind with a beaten egg. 

Take out the bone from the meat, and pin securely into 
a round with skewers; then pass a stout twine several 
times about the fillet, or a band of muslLa. Fill the cavity 
from which the bone was taken with this stufiing, and thrust 
between the folds of the meat, besides making incisions 
with a thin, sharp knife to receive it. Once in a while 
slip in a strip of fat pork or ham. Baste at first with salt 
and water, afterward with gi'avy. At the last, dredge with 
flour and baste with butter. 

SHOULDER. 

Stuff as above, making horizontal incisions near the 
bone to receive the dressing, and roast in like manner. 

Veal Outlets. 

Dip in beaten t-gg when you have sprinkled a little 
pepper and salt over them ; then roll in cracker-crumbs, 
and fry in hot dripping or lard. If you use buTter or drip- 
ping, add a little boiling water to the gravy when the meai 
Is dished ; thicken with browned flour, boil up once, send 
ing to table in a boat. 



VBAL. 118 

Or, 
You caii rub the cutlets well with melted butter, pejiper 
and broil on a gridiron Uke beef-steak, buttering very well 
aftei dishing. 

Veal Chops 

Are more juicy and less apt to be tough and solid than cut- 
lets. Trim the bone as with mutton chops, and fry, dip- 
ping in beaten egg and cracker-crumbs. Add a little pars- 
ley and a minced shallot to the gravy. 

Veal Steak. 

■rhis should be thinner than beef-steak, and be done 
chroughout. Few persons are fond of rare veal. Broil 
upon a well-greased gridiron over a clear fire, and turn fre- 
quently while the steaks are cooking. Put into a saucepan 
four or five young onions minced fine, a great teaspoonful 
of tomato cat^p, or twice the quantity of stewed tomato, 
a lump of butter the size of an egg, and a little thyme or 
parsley, with a small teacupful of hot water. Let them 
stew together while the steaks are broiling, thickening, be- 
fore you turn the gravy out, with a spoonful of browned 
dour. Add, if you please, a half-glass of wine. Boil up 
once hard, and when the steaks are dished, with a small bit 
of butter upon each, pour the mixture over and around 
them. 

Spinach is as natural an accompaniment to veal as are 
green peas to lamb. 

Veal Pies. 

Let your veal be juicy and not too fat. Take out all 
iLe bone, and put with the fat and refuse bits, such as fitin 
or gristle, in a saucepan, with a large teacupful of cold wa> 
ter to make gravy. Instead of chopping the veal, cut a 



116 COMMON SENSE. 

thin, even slices. Line a pndding-dish. with a good paste 
and put a layer of veal in the bottom ; then one of hard 
boiled eggs sliced, each piece buttered and peppered befor« 
it is laid upon the veal ; cover these with, sliced bam oi 
thin strips of salt pork. Squeeze a few drops of lemon- 
juice upon the ham. Then another layer of veal, and so 
on until you are ready for the gravy. This should have 
been stewing for half an hour or so, with Hhe addition of 
pepper and a bunch of aromatic herbs. Strain through a 
thin cloth and pour over the pie. Cover with crust and 
bake two hours. 

Or, 

Butter a large bowl very thickly, and line with sliced hard- 
boiled eggs. Then put in, in perpendicular layers, a lining 
of veal cut in thin slices, and seasoned with pepper. Next, 
one of sliced ham, each slice peppered and sprinkled with 
lemon-juice, more veal and more ham, until the dish ia 
packed to the brim. Cover with a thick paste made of 
flour and hot water, just stiff enough to handle with ease. 
Press this closely to the outside of the bowl, which should 
not be at all greasy. Let it overlap the rim about half an 
inch. Some cooks substitute a cloth well floured, but it 
does not keep ia the essence of the meats as woU as the 
paste. Set the bowl in a pot of hot water, not so deep that 
it will bubble over the top. It is better that it should not 
touch the paste rim. Boil steadily — ^not hard — for at least 
three hours. Remove the paste the next day, when bowl 
and contents are perfectly cold, and turn out the pie iuto a 
large plate or flat dish. Cut iu circular slices — thin as a 
wafer — ^beginning at the top, keeping your carver horizon- 
tal, and you have a delicious relish for the supper-table, oi 
side-dish for dinner. Set in a cool place, and ia winter il 
will keep several days. 

This is the " weal and hammer pie " endorsed by Mr 



TKAl. 117 

Wegg as a good thing " for mellering the oigan," and is a 
great favorite in England. It is a good plan to butter ths 
eggs as well as the dish, as much of tho success of the pia 
depends upon the manner in which it is turned out. Al^so, 
upon the close packing of the sliced meat. The sa.c ham 
prevents the need of other salt. 

Stewed Fillet op Veal. 

Stuff, and bind with twine as for roasting. Then cove» 
the top and sides with sliced ham which has been alreadj 
boiled, securing with skewers, or twine crossing the meal 
in all directions. Lay in a pot, put in two large cups o< 
boiling water, cover imn"idiately and closely, and stew 
gently — never letting it cease to boil, yet never boiling hard, 
for four or five hours. A large fillet will require nearly 
five hours. Remove the cover as seldom as possible, and 
only to ascertain whether the water has boiled away. If 
it is too low, replenish from the boiling kettle. Take off 
the strings when the meat is done ; arrange the ham about 
the fillet in the dish, and serve a bit with each slice of veal. 
Strain the gravy, thicken with flour, boil up once, and send 
In a boat. 

Serve with stewed tomatoes and spinach. 

Stewed Knuckle of Veal. 

Put the meat into a pot with two quarts of boiling wa 
ter, half a pound of salt pork or ham cut into strips, f 
carrot, two onions, a bunch of parsley and one of summer 
Bavory — all cut fine — two dozen whole pepper-corns, and 
»tew, closely covered, fcr three hours. When done, lake 
the meat from the pot and lay in the dish. Strain the 
grary, thicken wiih rice-flour, boil up onc«, and pour ovei 
tib« meat. 



118 common bbn81!. 

Veal Scallop. »{« 

(Thop some cold roast or stewed veal very fiue, pul i 
layer in the bottom of a buttered pudding-disli, and season 
with pepper and salt. Next have a layer of finely powder 
ed crackers. Strew some bits of butter upon it • and wel 
with a little milV ; then more veal seasoned a? before, and 
another round of cracker-crumbs, with butter and milk. 
When the dish is full, wet well with gravy or broth^ dilu- 
ted with warm water. Spread over all a thick layer of 
cracker seasoned with salt, wet into a paste with milk and 
bound with a beaten egg or two, if the dish be large. Stick 
butter-bits thickly over it ; invert a tin pan so as to cover 
all and keep in the steam, and bake — ^if small, half an hour • 
three-quarters will suffice for a large dish. Remove tha 
cover ten minutes before it is served, and brown. 

This simple and economical dish should be an acquaint- 
ance with all who are fond of veal in any shape. Children 
generally like it exceedingly, and I have heard more than 
one gentleman of excellent judgment in cuUnary affairs 
declare that the best thing he knew about roast veal v as 
that it was the harbinger of scallop on the second day. 

Try it, and do not get it too dry. 

Veal PAt^s. 

Mince the veal as above, and roll th?ee oi four eracL srs 
to powder. Also, chop up some cold ham and mix with 
the veal in the proportion of one-third ham and two-th:rd8 
veal. Then add the cracker, and wet well with gravy and 
a little milk. If you have no gravy, stir into a cup of hot 
milk two tablespoonfuls of butter and a beaten egg. Sea- 
son well to your taste, and bake in pat6 pans lined .vith 
puff-paste. If eaten hot, send to table in the tins. II jold, 
Blip the plltes out and pile upon a plate, with sprigs of par* 



VEAL. 119 

ley between, A litilu ovster-liquor is a marked iinprov» 
ment to the gravy. 

Stewed Oalf's-Head. 

Wash the head in several waters, and taking out the 
brains, se'^j them by in a cool place. Tie the head in a flour- 
ed cloth and boil it two hours in hot water slightly saltud, 
Wash the brains carefully, picking out all the bits of skin 
and membrane, cleansing them over and over until thej 
are perfectly white. Then stew in just enough water tc 
cover them. Take them out, mash smooth with the back 
of a wooden spoon, and add gradually, that it may not 
lump, a small teacupful of the water in which the head is 
boiled. Season with chopped parsley, a pinch of sage, pep- 
per, salt, and powdered cloves, with a great spoonful of but- 
ter. Set it over the fire to simmer in a saucepan until you 
are ready. When the head is tender, take it up and drain 
very dry. Score the top, and rub it well over with melted 
butter ; dredge with flour and set in the oven to brown. 
Or, you can use beaten egg and cracker-crumbs in place of 
the butter and flour. 

When you serve the head, pour the gravy over it. 

Never skin a calf's-head. Scald as you would that of 
a pig. A little lye in the water will remove the hair — as 
wiU also pounded rosin, applied before it is put into the water. 

Oalf'SjHead {Scalloped). ►{• 

Clean tne head, remove the brains, and set in a cool 
place. Boil the head until the meat slips easily from the 
bones. Take it out and chop fine, season with herbs, pep- 
per, and salt; then put iu layers into a buttered pudding- 
dish with bits of butter between each layer. Moisten well 
with the liquor in which the head was boiled. Wash the 
brains very thoroughly, removing all the membrane. Bea< 



120 COMMON SENSE. 

them into a smootli paste, season with pepper and salt, and 
stir in with them two eggs beaten very light. Spread this 
evenly over the scallop, dredge the top with a little flour, 
and bake to a delicate brown. Half an hour will be long 
onough, 

Sweet-Bheads {Fried). ►{« 

Wash very carefully, and dry with a linen cloth. Lard 
with narrow strips of fat salt poik, set closely together. Use 
for this piu-pose a larding- needle. Lay the sweet-breads in 
a clean, hot frying-pan, which has been well buttered oi 
greased, and cook to a fine brown, turning frequently until 
the pork is crisp. 

Sweet-Bkeads {Broiled). »J« 

Parboil, rub them well with butter, and broil on a clean 
gridiron. Turn frequently, and now and then roll over in 
a plate containing some hot melted butter. This will pre- 
vent them from getting too dry and hard. 

Sweet-Ekeads {Stewed). ►{« 

When you have washed them, and removed all bits of 
skin and fatty matter, cover with cold water, and heat to a 
boil. Pour off the hot water, and cover .with cold imtil the 
sweet-breads are firm. If you desire to have them very 
rich, lard as for frying before you put ia the second water. 
They are more delicate, however, if the pork be left out. 
Stew in a very little water the second time. "When they 
are tender, add for. each sweet-bread a heaping teaspoonful 
of butter, and a little chopped parsley, with pepper, and 
lalt, and a little cream. Let them sinmier in this gia'^y for 
five minutes, then take them up. Send to table ia a covered 
dlsli, with the gravy poured over them. 

If you lard the sweet-hi-eads, substitute for the cream in 



rsAii. 121 

the grayy a glass of good 'wine. In this case, ts<ko the 
s-weet-breads out before it is put into the grayy. Boil Rp 
once and pour over them. 

Sweet-Bkeads {lioasted). 

Parboil and throw into cold water, where let them stancl 
for fifteen minutes. Then change to more cold water for 
five minutes longer. Wipe perfectly dry. Lay them in 
your dripping-pan, and roast, basting with butter and water 
until they begin to brown. Then withdraw them for an 
instant, roll in beaten egg, then in cracker-crumbs, and re- 
tui-n to the fire for ten minutes longer, basting meanwhile 
«wice with melted butter. Lay in a chafing-dish while you 
iidd to the dripping half a cup hot water, some chopped 
parsley, a teaspoonful browned flour, and the juice of half 
I lemon. Pour over the sweet-breads' before sending to 
liable. • ^ T^-,^ 

f JeLLIEI VEAIi. j 

Wash a knuckle of veal, and cut it into three pieces. 
BoU it slowly until the meat will slip easily from the bones ; 
take out of the liquor ; remove all the bones, and chop the 
meat fine. "Season with salt, pepper, two shallots chopped 
dne as possible, mace and thyme, or, if you like, sage. Put 
Dack into the liquor, and boil until it is almost dry and 
can be stirred with difficulty. Turn into a mould until next 
day. Set on the table cold, garnish with parsley, and cut 
in slices. The juice of a lemon, stirred in just before it ia 
taken from the fire, is an improvement. 

Calf's-Head in a Mould. 

Soil a calfs-head until tender, the day before you wish 
tc- use it. When perfectly cold, chop — not too small — and 
season to taste 'with pepper, salt, mace, and the juice of a 



122 OOIOION SENSE. 

lemon. Prepare half as much cold ham, fat and lean — also 
minced — as you have of the chopped calf's-head. Butter a 
mould well, and lay in the bottom a layer of the calf n- 
head, then one of ham, and so on untU the shape is fuJUj 
pressing each layer hard, when you have moistened it with 
real gravy or the liquor in which the head was boiled, 
Pour more gravy over the top, and when it h<is soaked in 
well, cover with a paste made of flour and water. Bake 
one hour. Remove the paste when it is quite cold, and 
turn out carefully. Cut perpendicularly. 

This is quite as good a relish when made of cold roast or 
stewed veal and ham. It will keep several days in cool 
weather. 

Veal Olives with Oysters. 

Cut large, smooth slices from a fillet of veal, or vea^ 
chops will do quite as well. Trim them into a uniform 
shape and size, and spread each neatly 'with force-meat 
made of bread-crumbs and a little chopped poi-k, seasoned 
with pepper and salt. Over this spread some chopped 
oysters, about three to a good-sized slice of veal. Roll 
them up carefully and closmy, and pin each with two small 
tin or wooden skewers. Lay them in a dripping-pan ; dash 
a teaoupful of boiling water over them, and roast, basting 
at least twice with melted butter. When they are brown, 
remove to a chafing-dish, and cover, while you add a little 
oyster -liquor to the gravy left in the dripping-pan. Let 
this simmer for three or four minutes ; thicken with a tea- 
spoonful of browned flour, and boil up once. Withdraw 
the skewers cautiously, so as not to break the olives ; pour 
the gravy over and around them, and serve. If you hava 
RG skewers, bind the olives with pack-thread, cutting it, of 
course, before sending to table. 

Serve with cranberry jelly. 



TEAL. 123 

Minced Veal. 

lake the remains of a cold roast of veal fillet, shonlder. 
or breast, and cut all the meat from the bones. Put tlic 
latter, with the outside slices and the gristly pieces, into s 
saucepan, with a cup of cold water, some sweet lierbs, pe[v 
per, and salt. If you have a bit of bacon convenient, or a 
ham-bone, add this and omit the salt. Stew all together 
for an hour, then strain, thickeh with flour, return to the 
fire, and boil five minutes longer, stii-ring in a tabIesf)oon- 
ful of butter. 

Meanwhile, mince the cold veal, and when the gra"vy is 
ready put this in a little at a time. Let it almost boU, when 
add two tablespoonfuls of cream, or three of milk, stirring 
all the while. Lastly, squeeze in the juice of a lemon, and a 
moment later half a glass of sherry or Madeira wine. 

The miuce-meat should be diy enough to heap into a 
shape in a flat dish or chafing-dish. Lay triangles of bui- 
tered toast about the base of the mound, and on the top a 
poached egg. 

The remains of cold roast l^ef treated ia this mannei , 
substituting for the toast balls of mashed potato, will mak- 
a. neat and palatable dish. 

Send around spinach or stewed tomatoes ynth minccf* 
veal J scraped horseradish steeped in vinegar with the beef 

Veal Cutlets A la Maintenon. 

The cutlets should be nearly three-quarters of an inch 
thick, and trim in shape. DijD each in beaten egg, then 
into pounded cracker which has been seasoned with pow- 
dered sweet herbs, pepper, and salt. Wrap each cutlet in a 
Lalf-sheet oi note or letter paper, well buttered ; lay them 
upon a buttered gridiron and broil ovei a clear fire, turning 
often and dexterously. You can secure the papers ly fring 



124 COUMON SENSE. 

ing the ends, and twisting these after the cutlets are put ill 
this is neater than to pia them together. In trying this 
dish for the first time, have ready a sufficient number of 
duplicate papers in a clean, hot dish. If your envelojjes are 
much soiled or darkened while the cutlets are broiling, 
transfer quickly when done to the clean warm ones, twisi 
the ends, and serve. Cittlets prepared in this manner are 
sent to table in their cloaks, ranged symmetrically upon a 
hot chafing-dish. 

The expedient of the clean papers is a " trick of the 
trade," amateur housewives will observe with satisfaction. 
Epicures profess to enjoy veal cooked in covers far more 
than when the flavor and juices escape in broiling without 
Ihem. Empty eveiy drop of gravy from the soiled pape-^ 
into the clean over the cutlets. 

■Croquettes op Calf's Bkains. 

Wash the brains very thoroughly until they ai-e free from 
membranous matter and perfectly white. Beat them 
smooth ; season with a pinch of powdered sage, pepper, and 
Bait. Add two tablespoonfuls fine bread-crumbs moistened 
with milk, and a beaten egg. KoU into balls with floured 
hands, dip in beaten egg, then cracker-crumbs, and fry in 
butter or veal-drippings. 

These make a pleasant accompaniment to boiled spinach. 
Heap the vegetable in the centre of the dish, arrange the 
balls about it, and give one to each person who wishes 
spinach. 

Calf's Liver (Roasted). 

Boak the Hver in salt and water an hour to draw out tho 
oiood. Wipe perfectly dry, and stuff with a forcemeat 
made of bread-crumbs, two slices of fat salt pork, chopped 
smiill, a shallot, pepper, salt, and nutmeg; sweet marjoraiu 



VKAI.. 128 

and tliymo, and, if you choose, a little sage. Mofsten thii 
with butter melted in a very litt.e hot water, and two ratF 
eggs, well beaten. In order to get this into the liver, make 
an inci.sion with a narrow sharp knife, and without en- 
lai'ging the aperture where the blade entered, move thp 
point dexterously to and fro, to enlarge the cavity insidei 
Stuff this fuU of the forcemeat, sew or skewer up the outer 
orifice ; lard with strips of salt pork, and roast for an hour, 
basting twice with butter and water, afterward with the 
gi-avy in the dripping-pan. Pour the gravy over the liver 
when done. 

Boasted liver is very good cold, cut into slices like tongue 

Calf's Liver {Fried). 

Slice the liver smoothly, and lay in salt and water to 
draw out the blood. Lard each sUce, when you have wiped 
it dry, with slices of fat salt pork, drawn through at regular 
distances, and projecting slightly on each side. Lay in a 
clean frying-pan and fry brown. When done, take out the 
slices, arrange them neatly on a hot dish, and set aside to 
keep warm. Add to the gravy in the frying-pan a choppe(l 
onion, a half-cup of hllb^^^, pepper, the juice of a lemon, 
and thicken with brown ^pur. Boil up well, run through 
a cullender to remove the ■ onion and the bits of crisped 
pork that may have been broken off in cooking, pour over 
ihe liver, and serve hot. 

Pigs' Kvers can be cooked in the same way. 

Calf's Liver {Stewed). 

Slice the liver and lay in salt and water an hour. Then 
cut into dice and put over the fire, with enough cold water 
to cover it well. Cover and stew steadily for an hour, 
when ad 1 salt, ])op]iur, a little mace, sweet rniirjoram, pars 



126 CX)MMOS SEKSE. 

ley, and a teaspoonful Worcestershire sauce. Stew again 
steadily, not fast, for half an hour longer, when put in a 
table-spoonful of butter, two of browned flour — wet ^vitb 
cold water, a teaspoonful of lemon-juice and one of cur- 
rant jelly. Boil five minutes longer, and dish. A little 
wine is an improvement. 

Or, 
Put in with the liver-dice some of salt pork — say a li&^id- 
ful — and when you season, a chopped onion, and omit the 
jelly at the last, substituting some tomato catsup. 

Imitation PAifis de. Foie Gras. •{« 

Boil a calfs Uver nntil very tender in water that has 
been slightly salted, and in another vessel a nice calfa 
tongue. It is best xa do this the day before you make 
four pAte, as they should be not only cold, but firm when 
used. Cut the liver into bits, and rub these gi-adiially to a 
ksmooth paste in a "Wedgewood mortar, moistening, as you 
^tj on, with melted butter. Work into this paste, which 
should be quite soft, a quarter-teaspoonful of cayenne pep- 
per, or twice the quantity of white or black, half a grated 
nutmeg, a little cloves, a teaspoonful of Worcestershire 
Bauce, salt to taste, a full teaspoonful of made mustard, and 
a tsblespoonful of boiling water, in which a minced onion 
has been steeped until the flavor is extracted. . Work all 
together thoroughly, and pack in jelly-jars with air-tight 
covers, or, if you have them, in p&te-^zxs. They give a 
foreign air to the compound, and aid imagination in deceiv- 
ing the palate. Butter the inside of the jars well, and 
pack the p&te very hard, inserting here and there square 
and triangular bits of the tongue, which shotild be pared 
and cut up for this purpose. These simulate the truffles im 
beiic^d in the genuine pdtes from Strasbourg and elsewhere 



VKAL. 127 

WTien the jar is packed, and smooth as marble ou the sur- 
Dace, cover with melted butter. Let this harden, put or 
the liJ, and set away in a cool place. In winter it wiL 
keep for weeks, and is veiy nice for luncheon or tea. Make 
intd sandwiches, or set on in the jars, if they, aie neat and 
ornamental. 

The resemblance in taste to the* real p&U de foie (jrat 
is remarkable, and the domestic article is popular with the 
lovers of that deKcacy. Pigs' livers make a very hir pdte. 
If you can procure the livers of several fowls and treat as 
above, substituting bits of the inside of the gizzard for truf- 
fles, jou will find the result even more satisfactory. 

Veal Mabble. 

Boil a beef-tongue the day before it is to be used, and a 
tike number of pounds of lean veal ; or, the lean of a well- 
looked fillet will do as well. Grind first one, then thn 
other, in a sausage-cutter, keeping them in separate vessels 
until you are ready to pack. If you have no machine for 
this purpose, chop veri/ fine. Season the tongue with jjep- 
per, powdered sweet herbs, a teaspoonful of made mustard, 
a little nutmeg, and cloves — just a pinch of each ; the veal 
in like manner, with the addition of salt. Pack in alter- 
nate spoonfuls, irregularly as possible, in cups, bowls, or 
jars which have been well buttered. Press very hard as 
you go on, smooth the top, and cover with melted butter. 
When this cools, close the cans, and keep in a cool, djy 
place. Turn out whole, or cut in slices for tea. It is a 
pretty and savory relish, garnished with parsley or the 
blanched tops of celery. 

You can use ground ham instead of tongue. It is hard 
ly BO good, but is more economical. 



LS8 COMMON SENSB. 

PORK, 

At the Sfluth, where, in spite of the warm climate, tlw 
consumption of pork is double that of the North, the fall- 
grown hog is .seldom represented by any of his ■pturts at the 
table, fresh or pickled, unless it be during kilUng-time , 
then fresh spare-ribs, chine, and steak, -with other succu- 
lent bits, are welcome upon the choicest bills of fare. The 
rest of the animal — ham, shoulders, and middlings — is con- 
signed to the packing-barrel, and ultimately to the smoke- 
house. But,, in cool weather, "shoat"- — i. e., pig under 
six months of age — is abundantly displayed in market, and 
highly esteemed by all classes. The meat is fine and sweet 
and, unless too fat, nearly as delicate as that of chicken — 
a very different looking and tasting dish from the gross, 
oleaginous joints and "chunks" offered for sale in many 
other regions as " nice young pork." Those of my read- 
ers who can command " shoat " are to be heartily congratu- 
lated. Those whose butchers dispense only portions of the 
mature porker will do well, in my opinion, if they rarely 
admit him to their families before he has been salted, and 
been thereby purged of many unwholesome properties. 
Few stomachs, save those of out-door laborers, can digesl 
the fresh meat of a two or three, or even one year old hog. 
This is the truthful, biit, to unaccustomed ears, offensive 
name for him at the South and "West, where his qualitiea 
and habits are best known. 

The parts of a properly dissected hog are the hamS; 
shoulders, griskin or chine, the loin, middlings, spaie-ribs, 
head, feet, liver, and haslet. The choice portions are hams, 
Bhouliers, and, for roasting, the loin. All hogs should be 
kept up .and well fed for three weeks, at least, before they 
ftre killed ; their styes be frequently cleaned, and furnished 
with abundance of water, renewed every day Sir Gruntei 



POKK. ] 2i) 

would bo a more cleanly creature if he were allowed inoro 
extensive water privileges. If it were possible — and in 
the country this may sometimes be done — to buUd his pen 
on the bank of a running stream, he would speedily redeem 
his character from the stain cast upon it by the populai 
»erdict, and the superior quality of the meat repay the 
thoughtful kindness of his owner. It is a disgrace to 
humanity, hardly second to the barbarities of swiU-milk 
manufactories, this compulsory filth of any domestic ani- 
mal. Those who, like myself, have been loathing witnesses 
of the pig-pens upon the premises of well-to-do farmers—^ 
the receptacles of the vilest slops and offal, never cleaned 
except during the yearly removal of manure from barn- 
yard to fi.eld — cannot marvel at the growing prejudice 
against pork in all its varieties that pervades our best 
classes. "We feed the hog with the offscouriags (this ia 
literal) of house, garden, and table ; bed him in mire, and 
swell him with acetous fermentation, not to say active de 
composition, and then abuse him for beiiig what we have 
made him. I am persuaded — and wiser people than I de 
clare — that hog-scrofula and cholera, and the rest of th* 
train of fleshly ills that are the terror of pork-raisers, have^ 
one and allj their root in this \inseemly inhumanity. Er 
chew fresh pork we may, but we cannot dispense with hama, 
shoulders, and, most valuable of all to the cook, lard and 
pickled pork. Real sausage, porciae and home-made, is still 
sweet and j^leasant tc the unpampered palate ; and of roast 
pig, the gentlest and most genial of English essayists did 
not disdain to become the eulogist. In memory of his use- 
fnbiess, in belief of the healthfulness which should be his 
birthright, and the safeguard of his consumers, let us Ireat 
Bristle well — I do not say philosophically, but sensibly and 
kindly. 

A pig should not be allowed to eat anything fiw twenty. 
6* 



130 COMMON SENSE. 

four hours beff re he is killed. After lie is butchered, gieat 
care should be exercised to keep the pork from tainting j 
it spoils more readily, when fresh, than any other meat, 
Cook all kinds of pork thoroughly. When underdone it 
is not only unpalatable, but exceedingly unwholesome. 

VRoast Leg op Pokk.) 

One weighing about seven pounds is enough, even for a 
large family. If the pig is young, the leg will be even 
smaller. Score the skin in squares, or parallel liues run- 
ning from side to side, for the convenience of the carver. 
Put it down to roast with a very little water in the pan be- 
low. Heat gradually until the fat begins to ooze from the 
meat, when quicken the fire to a red, steady glow. Baste 
only with its own gravy, and do this often, that the skia 
may not be hard or tough. When done take it up, skim 
ihe gravy thoroughly, put in half a cup of boiling water, 
thicken with brown flour, add pepper, salt, and the juice of 
» lemon, and serve in a boat. 

Or, 

If the joint be that of a full-grown hog, rub into the top, 
after scoring it deeply, a force-meat of bread-crumbs season- 
isd with sage and chopped onion, wet with the juice of a 
?emon or a very little vinegar ; pepper and salt to taste. 
Rub this in hard until the cracks are filled. With a sharp 
knife make incisions close to the knuckle-bone, and stuff 
with the forcemeat, tying a string tightly about it afterwiurd, 
to prevent the escape of the seasoning. Rub over once with 
butter, when the meat is warm throughout ; then baste with 
the fat. Skim all the fat from the drippings that can be re- 
moved before making the gravy. 

Send ai-ound tomato or appl,e sauce, and pickles, with 
roast pork. 



POEK. 131 

Loin of Pork. 

Cook as you would a leg, aUowing twenty mimitea to i 
poun'l in roasting. This is a good rule for fresh pork, tli« 
meat being coarser and of closer grain than are more ddi 
ca+e meats. 

A shoulder is roasted in the same way. 

Roast Spake-Rib. 

When firat put down to the fire, cover with a greased 
paper until it is half done. Remove it then, and dredge 
with flour. A few minutes later, baste once with butter, 
and afterward, every little while, with its own gravy. This 
is necessary, the spare-rib being a very dry piece. Just 
*>efore you take it up, strew over the surface thickly with 
nne bread-crumbs seasoned with powdered sage, pepper, and 
Biilt, and a small onion minced into almost invisible bits. 
Let it cook five minutes and baste once more with biitter. 
Skim the gravy, add a half-cupful of hot water, thicken with 
brown flour, squeeze in the juice of a lemon, strain, and 
pour over the meat in the dish. 

Send tomato catsup around with it, or if you prefer, 
put a liberal spoonful in the gravy, after it is strained. 

Roast Chine. 

A chine is treated precisely as is the spare-rib, except 
that the strip of skin running along the back is scored close- 
ly. If you wish, you can omit the bread-crumb crust, the 
onion and sage. Li carving, cut thin horizontal slices from 
the ribs. Chine is best cold. The meat next the ribs is 
delicious when scraped off and made into sandwiches, oi 
laid upon buttered toast. 

Or, 

You can wash the chine over with beaten egg, dredge 
with cracker-crumbs, seasoned with salt and r«pper, and 



J 32 COMMON SENSE. 

roast, basting with butter and water once when the meat it 
heated through, afterward with its own gravy. This is a 
palatable supper-dish when cold. Garnish with cucumber 
j'ickles cut in round slices. 

E.OAST Pig. 

A month-old pig, if it be well-grown and plump, is bosl 
for this purpose. It is hardly possible that any lady-house- 
keeper will ever be called upon to do the butcher's work 
upon the bodies of full-grown hogs, or even " shoat " — a 
task that requires the use of hatchet or cleaver. It is well 
that she should know how to clean and dress the baby pig, 
which is not larger than a Thanksgiving turkey. 

As soon as it is really cold, make ready a large boiler of 
scalding water. Lay the pig in cold water for fifteen min- 
utes ; then, holding it by the hind leg, plunge it into the 
boiling water, and shake it about violently until you can 
pull the hair off by the handful. Take it out, wipe it dry, 
and with a crash cloth or whisk broom rub the hair off, 
brushing from the tail to the head, until the skiti is per- 
fectly clean. Cut it open, take out the entrails, and wash 
\ery thoroughly with cold water, then with soda and water, 
to remove any unpleasant odor ; next with salt and watei . 
Kinse with fair water and wipe inside. Then wrap in & 
wet cloth, and keep this saturated with cold water until 
you are ready to stuff it. If these directions be followed 
implicitly, the pig will be fair and white, as if intrusted to 
a professional butcher. 

For stuffing, take a cupful of bread-crumbs, half a 
(topped onion, two teaspoonfuls powdered sage, three ta- 
Wespoonfuls melted butter, a saltspoonful of pepper, half a 
grated nutmeg, half a teaspoonful of salt, two well-beaten 
eggs. Mlk aU these ingredients, except the egg, together, 
incorporating them well ; moisten with half a cup of wann 



FOBS 1 33 

water (or milk), beat in. the eggs, and stiiff the pig into hia 
natural size and shape. Sew him up, and bend his foi-e- 
feet back-»'ard, his hind-feet forward, under and close to th« 
body, an i skewering them into the proper position. Dry 
it well, and dredge with flour. Put it to roast with a little 
Lot water, slightly salted, ia the dripping-pan. Baste with 
butter and water three times, as the pig gradually warms, 
afterward with the dripping. When it begins to smoke oi 
steam, rub it over, every five minutes or so, with a cloth 
dipped in melted butter. Do not omit this precaution if 
you would have the skin tender and soft after it begins to 
brown. A month-old pig wiU require about an hour and 
three quarters or two hours — sometimes longer — to roast, 
if the fire be brisk and steady. 

Should you or your guests dislike onion, prepare your 
stuffing without it. The following is a good receipt for 
rich and savory force-meat for a pig : — 

One cup of bread-crumbs, an ounce of suet, a bunch of 
parsley minced fine, teaspoonful of powdered sage, pepper, 
Jialt, and nutmeg, a little thyme, half a glass Madeira or 
uherry, juice of a lemon, two tablespoonfuls melted butter, 
a cup of oyster-Uquor, and two well-beaten eggs. For a 
Christmas pig, it is worth one's while to take the trouble 
to prepare this stuffing. 

If your pig is large, you can cut off his head and split 
him down the back before sending to table. Do this with 
a sharp knife, and lay the backs together. But it is a 
pity ! I ha,ve before me now the vision of a pig I once 
eaw served whole on the table of a friend, that forbids me 
ever to mutilate the innocent beWe the guests have a 
ehance to feast their eyes upon tUe goodly picture. Ha 
was done to a turn — a rich, even hown, without a seam or 
crack from head to tail, and he kxielt in a bod of deep- 
green parsley, alternately with b'loches of whitish- green 



134 COMMON SENSB. 

selery tops (the inner and tender leaves) ; a garland of tin 
same was about his neck, and in his mouth was a tufl oi 
white cauliflower, surrounded by a setting of curled j)ara- 
ley. Very simple, you see; but I never beheld a more 
ornamental roast. 

Skim your gravy well ; add a little hot water, thicken 
with brown flour, boil up once, strain, and, when you have 
added half a glass of wine and half ths jtiice of a lemon, 
serve in a tureen. 

In carving the pig, cut ofi:' the head first; then split 
down the back, take off hams and shoulders, and separate 
the ribs. Serve some of the dressing to each person. 

I have been thus minute in describing the preparation 
of this holiday dish, because it is erroneously considered a 
difficult task. Any cook with a moderate degree of judg- 
Qient and experience can undertake it with a reasonablo 
expectation of success. 

(PoRK Steaks, j 

Those from the loin are best, but they can be cut from 
the ueck. ilemove the skin and trim neatly. Season with 
pe]iper and salt, and broU over a clear fire. Some excel- 
lent housewives broil without seasoning, adding pepper, 
salt, a pinch of sage, another of minced onion, and a lump 
of butter after they are put into the hot dish. Then cover 
closely and set in the oven for five minutes, \intil the aromf 
of the condiments flavors the meat. Try this methods 
You can cook spare-rib in the same manner, 

POKK CnoFS. 

E«move the skin, trim them, and dip first in beaten 
3gg, then in cracker-crumbs seasoned with salt, pepper, 
minced onion, and a little sage. Fry in hot lard or drip' 
pings twenty or thirty minutes, turning often. The giav^ 



POKK. 13S 

of this dish ia usually too lich or fat to accompauj ':be 
meat. 

Pork cutlets are cooked in like manner. Send apple- 
sauce to the table with them, and season with tomato cat- 

BUp. 

Stewed Pork. 

Take some tolerably lean slices from the leg, or biti 
left from trimming the various pieces into shape. Cut into 
dice an inch square, put into a pot with enough cold water 
to cover them, and stew gently for three-quarters of an 
hour, closely covered. Meanwhile parboil half a dozen Irish 
^lotatoes, cut in thick slices, in another vessel. When the 
pork has stewed the allotted time, drain off the water 
from these and add to the meat. Season with pepper, salt, 
a minced shallot, a spoonfid of pungent catsup, and a bunch 
ol aromatic herbs. Cover again, and stew twenty minutea 
iojQger, or until the meat is tender throughout. 

If your meat be not too fat, this stew will be very good, 
especially on a cold day. 

You can stew cutlets in the same way. 

Pig's Head (Hoasted). 

Take the head of a half-grown pig ; clean and split it, 
tftking out the brains and setting these aside in a cool place. 
I'arboil the head in salted water, drain off this, wipe the 
h ^ad dry, and wash all over with beaten egg ; dredge thickly 
with bread-crumbs, seasoned with pepper, sage, and onion, 
and roast, basting twice with butter and water ; then with 
the liquor in which the head was boiled ; at last with the 
jravy that runs from the meat. "Wash the brains in sev- 
eral waters until they are white ; beat to a smooth paste, 
idd one-quarter part fine bread-crumbs, pepper, and salt ; 
mike into balls, binding with a beaten egg ; roll in flour 
and fry in hot fat to a light brown. Arrange about th» 



136 COMMON SENSE. 

head when it is dished. Skim the gravy left in the drip 
ping- pan, thicken with brown flour, add the juice of « 
lemon, and boil up once. Pour it over the head. 

Pig's Head with Livee and Heakt {Stewed). 

Clean and split the head, taking out the brains and set- 
ting aside. Put the head in a pot with water enough to 
cover it and parboil it. Have ready another pot with the 
liver and heart, cut into inch-long pieces, stewed in just 
enough water to keep them from scorching. When the 
head is half done, add the entire contents of the second ves- 
sel to the first, and season wi^h salt, pepper, a little onion, 
parsley, and sage. Cover and iitfiw until the head is very 
tender, when take it out and lay in tne middle of a flat diih.. 
With a perforated skimmer remove the liver and heart and 
spread about the head, surrounding, but not covering It 
Strain the gravy and return to the pot, thicken with 
browned flour, squeeze in the juice of a lemon, and drop 
in carefully force-meat balls of the brains, prepared accord 
iag to the foregoing receipt and fried a light brown. Boil 
once and pour about the head, arranging the balls upon it, 
to cover the split between the two sides of the head. 

You may improve this dish, which is very savory, fcjr 
boiling a couple of pigs' feet with the head untU the mean 
will slip from the bones. Take them from the liquor, cui 
off and chop the meat, and put into the large pot when 
you add the Uver, etc. 

Souse op Pigs' Eabs and Feet. 

Clean the ears and feet well; cover them with cold 
Water slightly salted, and boil until tender. Pack in stone 
jars while hot, and cover while you make ready the picklo. 
To half a gallon of good cider vinegar allow half a cup oi 
vhito sugar, three dozen whole black pepper, a dozen blnda* 



POEK. 137 

of mace, and a dozen cloves. Boil tlxis one minute, taking 
care that it really boils, and pour while hot over the stil 
wann feet and ears. It will be ready to use in two daySj 
and will keep in a cool, dry place two months. 

If yo"! wish it for breakfast, make a batter of one egg, 
ooe cup of milk, salt to taste and a teaspoonful of butter, 
with enough flour for a thin muffin-batter ; dip each piece 
in this, and fry in hoi; lard or dripping. Or dip each in 
beaten egg, then in pounded cracker, before frying. 

Souse is also good eaten cold, especially the feet. 

Head-Cheese (or Souse). 

This is made of the head, ears, and tongue. Boil them 
in salted water until very tender. Strip the meat from the 
bones and chop fine. Season with salt, pepper, sage, sweet 
marjoram, a little powdered cloves, and half a cup of strong 
vinegar. Mix aU together thoroughly, taste to see that it 
is flavored sufficiently, remembering that the spice tends to 
keep it, and pack hard in moulds or bowls, interspersing the 
layers with bits of the tongue cut in oblongs, squares, and 
triangles not less than an inch in length. Press down and 
keep the meat in shape by putting a plate on the top of each 
mould (first wetting the plate) and a weight upon this. lo 
two days the cheese will be ready for use. Turn out fror« 
the shapes as you wish to use it ; or, should you desire to 
keep it several weeks, take the cheese from the moulds and 
immerse in cold vinegar in stone jars. This will preserve 
it admirably, and you have only to pare away the outside, 
should it be too acid for your taste. 

This is generally eaten cold for tea, with vinegar and 
mustard; but it is very nice cut in slices, seasoned slightlj 
with mustard, and warmed in a fiying-pan with enough bufc 
ter to prevent burning. Or, you may dip in beaten egg. 
Hen crack 3r-crumbs, and fry for breakfast. 



138 COMMON SENSE. 

If the tongue is arranged judiciously, the slices will be 
( lettily marbled. 

Pork Pot-pie. 

You can make this of lean pork cut from any part of 
Ihf pig, but the chine is best. Crack the bones well, and 
cnt up the chine into rihlettes two inches long. Line your 
pot, which should be round at the bottom and well greased, 
with a good light paste ; put in the meat, then a layer of 
parboiled potatoes, sjilit in half, seasoning with pepper and 
salt as you go on. When the pot is nearly fuU, pour in a 
[uart of cold water and put on the upper crust, cutting a 
.miall round hole out of the middle, through which you can 
add hot water should the gravy boil away too fast. Slips 
of paste may also be strewed among the meat and potatoes. 
Put on the pot-Kd, and boU from one hour and a half to 
two hours. When done, remove the upper crust carefully, 
turn out the meat and gravy into a bowl, that you may 
get at the lower. Lay this upon a hot dish, put the meat, 
etc., in order upon it, pour the gravy over it, and cover with 
the top crast. This can be browned with a red-hot shovel, 
or oven-lid. 

Cheshire Pork-pie. 

Cut two or three pounds of lean fresh pork into stripa 
as long and as wide as your middle finger. Line a buttered 
dish with puff-paste ; put in a layer of pork seasoned with 
pepper, salt, and nutmeg or mace ; next a layer of juicy ap- 
ples, sliced and covered with about an ounce of white sugar ; 
then more pork, and so on until you are ready for the pasta 
cover, when pour in half a pint of sweet cider or wine, ana 
stick bits of butter all over the top. Cover with a thick 
lid of puff-pasto, cut a slit in the top, brush over with 
beaten egg, and bake an hour and a half. 

This is an English dish, and is famous in th« region front 



roKK. 139 

whicli it takes its name. It is much Uked ty those who 
have tried it, and is considered by some to be equal to out 
mince-pie. 

Yorkshire pork-pie is made in the same way, vrith thj' 
omission of the apples, sugar, and nutmeg, and the addilioi 
of sage to the seasoning. 

Sausage (Ifo. 1). 

6 lbs. lean fresh pork. 
3 « fat « « 
12 teaspoonfuls powdered sage. 
6 " black pepper. 

6 « salt. 

2 teaspoonfuls powdered mace. 
2 « " cloves. 

1 grated nutmeg. 

Grind the meat, fat and lean, in a sausage-iaill, or chop 
Ft very fine. The mill is better, and the grinding does not 
occupy one-tenth of the time that choijping does, to say 
nothing of the labor. One can be bought for three or four 
dollars, and will well repay the purchaser. Mix the sea/- 
soning in with your hands, taste, to be sure all is right, and 
pack down in stone jars, pouring melted lard on top. An- 
other good way of preserving them is, to make long narrow 
bags of stout muslin, large enough to contain, each, enough 
sausage for a family dish. Eill these with the meat, dip in 
melted lard, and hang from the beams of the cellar. 

If you wish to pack in the intestines of the hog, they 
should oe carefully prepared as follows : Empty them, cut 
them in lengths, and lay for two days in salt and water. 
Turn them inside out, and lay in soak one day longer. Scrape 
thorn, rinse well in soda and water, mpe, and blow into one 
•^nd, having tied up the other with a bit of twine. If they 



140 COMMON SISNSE. 

are whole and clear, stuff mth the meat ; tie up and hang 
Ln the store-room or cellar. 

These are fried in the cases, in a clean, dry frying-pan, 
until brown. If you have the sausage-meat in bulk, make 
into small, round flat cakes, and fry in the same way. Some 
dip in egg and pounded cracker — others roll in flour before 
cooking. Their own fat will cook them. Send to table 
dry and hot, but do not let them fry hard. When one side 
is done, turn the other. The fire should be very brisk. 
Ten minutes, or twelve at the outside, is long enough to 
cook them. 

Sausage {JVb, 2). 

4 lbs. pork, lean. 
H " « fat. 

10 teaspoonfuls sage. 

5 " pepper. 
5 « salt. 

Grind and season as directed in No. 1. 
Thiij will not keep so long as that made according to vbt 
former retjeipt, but is very good for immediate family use. 

Sausage {JVo. 3). 

2 lbs. lean pork. 
2 " " veal. 

2 « beef suet. 
Peel of half a lemon 
1 grated nutmeg. 

1 teaspoonful black pepper. 
1 " ca3'enne. 

5 teaspoonfuls salt. 

3 " sweet marjoram and 
thyme mixed. 



FOBK. 141 

2 teaspoonfuls of sage. 
Juice of a lemon. 
Btuff in cases. This is very fine. 

BoLOGXA Sausage ( Uncooked), 

6 lbs. lean pork. 

3 " «' beef. 

2 " beef suet. 

4 ounces salt. 

6 tablespoonfuls black pepper. 

3 " cayenne. 

2 teaspoonfuls powdered cloves. 

1 " allspice. 

One minced onion, very finely 
chopped. 
Chop or grind the meat, and mix the seasonii. g well 
through it. Pack it in beef-skins (or entrails) prepared as 
vou do those of pork. In the city, you can have these 
cleaned by your butcher, or get them ready for use from a 
pork merchant. Tie both ends tightly, and lay them in 
biine strong enough to bear up an egg. Let them be in 
this for a week ; change the brine, and let them remain in 
this a week longer. Turn them over every day of the fort- 
night. Then take them out, wipe them, and send them to 
be smoked, if you have no smoke-house of your own. Wlien 
well smoked, rub them over with sweet oil or fresh butter, 
and hang them in a cool, dark place. 

Bologna sausage is sometimes eaten raw, but the dread 
of the fatal trichince should put an end to this practice, did 
not common sense teach us that it m ist be iinwholesoraf;, 
no less than disgusting. Out in round, thick slices, and 
toast on a gridiron, or fry in their own fat. If you mean 
to keep it some time, rub over the skins with pepper t« 
keep away insects. 



112 COMMON SENSE. 

Bologna Sausage (CookedS. 

2 Ibe. lean beef. 
2 « " veal. 
2 " " pork. 
2 " fat salt pork — not smoked. 

1 lb. beef suet. 

10 teaspoonfuls powdered sage. 
4 lbs. marjoram, parsley, savory, and thyitio — inXjeed 

2 teaspoonfuls cayenne pepper, and the same of 
black. 

1 gi-ated nutmeg. 

1 teaspoonful cloves. 

1 minced onion. 

Salt to taste. 
Chop or grind the meat and suet ; season, and stuff into 
bi^-ef-skins ; tie these up ; prick each in several places to af- 
low the escape of the steam; put into hot — not boiling 
water, and heat gradually to the boiling-point. Cook slowly 
for one hour ; take out the skins and lay them to dry in th<> 
Bun, upon clean, sweet straw or hay. Rub the outside ot 
the skins with oU or melted butter, and hang in a cool, di:<r 
cellar. If you mean to keep it more than a week, rub pep 
per or powdered ginger upon the outside. You can wash 
it off before sending to table. This is eaten without further 
3ooking. Cut in rotind slices, and lay sliced lemon around 
the edge of the dish, as many like to squeeze a few dropa 
upon the sausage before eating. 

Lard. 

Every housekeeper knows how unfit for really nic« 
cooking is the pressed lard sold in stores as the " best and 
cheapest." It is close and tough, melts slowly, and is some- 
times diversified by fibrous lumps. And ever when lard 



lOEK. 143 

has b(ien " tried out " by the usual process, it is often mixed 
with so much water as to remind us unpleasantly that it 
is bought by -weight. 

The best way of preparing the " leaf lard," as it is called, 
is to skin it carefully, wash, and let it drain ; then put it, 
out into bits, into a large, clean tin kettle or bucket, and 
set this in a pot of boiling watei\ Stir from time to time 
Until it is melted ; throw in a very little salt, to make Uie 
sediment settle ; and when it is hot — (it should not boil fast 
at any time, but simmer gently untU clear) — strain through 
a coarse cloth into jars. Do not squeeze the cloth so loug 
as the clear fat will run through, and when you do, press 
the refuse into a different vessel, to be used for commoner 
purposes than the other. 

Most of the lard in general use is, however, made from 
the fatty portions of pork lying next the skin of the hog, 
and are left for this puirpose by the butcher. Scrape from 
the rind, and cut all into dice. Fill a large pot, putting in 
a teacupful of water to prevent scorching, and melt very 
slowly, stirring every few minutes. Simmer until there 
remains nothing of the meat but fibrous bits. Remove 
these carefully with a perforated skimmer ; throw in a littlr 
salt, to settle the fat, and when it is clear, strain through r 
fine cullender, a sieve, or a coarse cloth. Dip the latter in, 
boiling water, should it become clogged by the cooling lard 
Observe the directions about squeezing the strainer. If 
your family is small, bear in mind that lard keeps longer in 
email than large vessels. Set away the jars, closely covered, 
in a cool, dry cellar or store-room. 

In trying out lard, the chief danger is of burning. Sim- 
mei gently over a steady fire, and give it your whole atten- 
teon until it is done. A moment's neglect wUl ruin all 
Stir very often — almost constantly at the last — and from 
the bottom, until the salt is throv/n in to settle it, wbui) 



144 COMMON SENSIC. 

withdraw to a less hot part of the fire. Bladders tied ovei 
lard jars are the best protection; next to these, paper, and 
outside of this, cloths dipped in melted grease. 

Bkawn (No. 1.) 

Pig's head weighing 6 lbs. 

1 lb. lean beef. 

1 teaspoonful salt. 

J teaspoonful pepper (black or white). 

^ teaspoonful cayenne pepper. 

^ teaspoonful mace. 

A pinch of cloves. 

A small onion minced very fine. 

Clean and wash the head, and stew with the beef in 
raiough cold water to cover. When the bones will slip out 
'Sasily, remove them, after draining off the liquor. Chop 
vhe meat finely while it is hot, season, and pour all into a 
iflould, wet inside with cold water. If you can have a tin 
mould made in the shape of a boar's head, your brawn will 
look well at a Christmas feast. 

Brawn (No. 2). 

Pig's head, feet, and ears. 

J- teaspoonful of black pepper, and same of cayenne. 

4 teaspoonfuls powdered sage. 

1 teaspoonful mace. 

An onion minced. 

Salt and saltpetre. 

Soak the head twelve hours, and lay in a strong brine, 
with a tablespoonful of saltpetre. Let it lie three days in 
this ; rinse ; then boil it until you can draw out the bones. 
Do this very carefully from the back and under-side of thii 
head, breaking tho outline of the top as little as possible 



FOBS.. 145 

GJhop the meat of the feet and ears, "wMch shotild have oeen 
boiled with the head, season to taste with the spices T have 
indicated (tastes vary in these mattters), beat in the brains, 
or two tablespoonfuls of melted butter. Fill up the hoUcws 
left by the removal of the bones wit'i this mixture. Tie in 
i Qannel cloth, sewing this tightly iato the shape of the 
bead ; boil an hour and a quai'ter, and set aside to drain 
»nd cool. Do not remove the cloth until next day. Thia 
vili be found very nice. 

Saveloys. 
8 lbs. pork. 

4 teaspoonfuls black pepper. 
1 teaspoonful cayenne. 
1 " cloves or mace. 

8 teaspoonfuls sage, sweet marjoram, and thyme, 

mixed. 
1 teacupful bread-crumbs. 

Lay the meat, which should be young pork, in a brine of 
ualt and water, with a tableapoonful of saltpetre, and leave 
it for three days. Dry and mince it, season, and add the 
grated bread. Stuff in skins, and bake, closely covered, in 
an oven for half an hour. Or, what is better, steam over 
boiling water one hour. 

Eat either hot or cold. 

To Pickle Poek. (No. 1.) 

Hams, shoulders, chines, and "middliags," are the parts 
of the hog which are usually pickled. This should be done 
u soon as may be after the meat is fairly cold — especially 
in moderate weather. When you can pack down pork 
twenty-four hours after butchering, it is best to do so, un 
less the cold be severe enough to preserve it longer. 



146 COMlklON BE^SE. 

i^ lbs. salt. 

1 lb. brown sugar. 

1 02. saltpetre in 3 gallons of -water 

Put into a large saucepan and boil for half an hour 
Bidiuming off tlie scojm. When cold, pour over the meat, 
and let it lie for a few days. 

This is intended to corn a small quantity of meat foi 
family use. 

(No. 2.) 
80 lbs. of meat. 

2 quarts and 1 pint of fine salt. 

4 lbs. sugar, or 1 quart best molasses. 

3 oz. saltpetre. 

Pulverize and mix the seasoning, vi'ith the exception of 
the two quarts of salt, using the one piat only. Rub the 
meat wdl all over, and lay upon boards on the cellar-floor 
for twenty-four hours. Then, put a few clean stones 
in the bottom of a barrel ; lay sticks across these, that the 
meat may not soak ia the liquor that drains from it. Pack 
the meat in layers, strewing between these the remaining 
two quarts of salt. Let it lie in the cask for fifteen or six- 
teen days, every day during this time tipping the cask to 
drain off the liquor, or dra-wing it through a bimg-hole near 
the bottom. Pour this back in cupfuls over the meat. 

If you do not mean to smoke the meat, take it out at 
the end of the fortnight, rub each piece well over -with dry 
salt, and return to the barrel. If the liquor does not cover 
it, make fresh brine ia the proportion of two pounds of salt, 
a quarter of an ounce of saltpetre, and a quart of water, and 
pour in when you have boiled it half an hour and let it cool 
Lay a round piece of board upon the upper layer and keejj 
this (lo-wn -with stones. Examine from time to time, to be 
iure the meat is kuej;ii)g well. Should it f\eem likely U 



roEK. 141 

taifit, throw away the pickle, rub each piece over with dry 
Bait, and pack anew. Pork pickled in this way will keep 
two years. 

To Cure Hams. 

Having pickled your hams with the rest of your pork 
as j ust directed, take them, after the lapse of sixteen days, 
from the packing barrel, with the shoulders and jowls. At 
the South they empty the cask, and consign the "whole 
hog " to the smoke-house. Wash off the pickle, and, wliUo 
wet, dip in bran. Some use saw-dust, but it is not so good. 
Others use neither, only wipe the meat dry and smoke. 
The object in dipping in bran or saw-dust is to form a crust 
which prevents the evaporation of the juices. Be sure thai 
it is well covered with the bran, then hang in the smoke, 
the hock end downward. Keep up a good smoke, by hav- 
ing the fire partially smothered with hickory chips and saw 
dust, for four weeks, taking care the house does not be 
come hot. Take down the meat, brush ofi" the bran, exam 
ine closely, and if you suspect insects, lay it ift^he hot sun 
for a day or two. <^». 

The various ways of keeping ham^PBa^ch. stronglj 
reconur'jnded by those who have practised it — are too nu 
merous to mention here. Some pack in wood ashes ; oth 
era, in dry oats ; others, in bran. But the best authoritiet 
discard packing altogether. I will name one or two meth- 
ods which I know have been successful. " I hang mine on 
hooks from wires, at the top of my granary, which is tigW 
and dai'k," says an excellent judge and manufacturer of 
hams. " They are good and sweet when a year old." A-n^ 
other admirable housekeeper covers with brown paper, 
then with coarse muslin stitched tightly and fitting close- 
ly, then whitewashes. But for the paper, the lime 'would 
b<) apt to eat away the gi-ease. Still another covers witl 



148 COMMON 8ENBK. 

musliii, axd coata ndth a mixture of bees- nrux and rosiu, 
There is no doubt that the covers are an excellent precau 
tion — provided always, that the insects have not already 
deposited their eggs in the meat. The bran coating tends 
to prevent this. ^ 

I havcj eaten ham twenty years old in Virginia, which 
had been kept sweet in slaked ashes. Unslaked will act 
like lime upon the &,t. 

Boiled Ham. 

Soak in water over night. Next morning wash hard 
with a coarse cloth or stiff brush, and put on to boil with 
plenty of cold water. Allow a quarter of an hour to each 
pound in cooking, and do not boil too fast. Do not remove 
the skin until cold ; it will come off easily and cleanly 
then, and the juices are better preserved than when it ia 
stripped hot. Send to table with dots of pepper or dry 
mustard on the top, a tuft of fringed paper twisted about 
rhe shank, and garnish with parsley. 

Cut very thin in carving. 

GrLAZED Ham. J^ ^ 

Brush the ham — a cold boiled one, from which the 
skin has been taken — ^well, all over with beaten egg. To 
H cup of powdered cracker allow enough rich millr or 
cream to make into a thick paste, salt, and work in a tea- 
spoonful of melted butter. Spread this evenly a quarter 
of an inch thick over the ham, and set to brown in a mod- 
erate even. 

Steamed Ham. 

This is by far the best way of cooking a ham. Lay in 
sold water for twelve hours ; wash very thoroughly, rnl> 
bing with a stiff brush, to dislodge the salt and smoke oi 



PORK. 146 

the outside. Put into a steamer, cover closely, and set il 
over a pot of boiling water. Allow at least twenty min 
utes to a pound. Keep the water at a hard boil 

If you serve ham hot, skin, and immediately strew 
thickly with cracker or bread-crumbs, to prevent the waste 
of the essence. Put a frill of paper about the knuckle. 

Send around cabbage or other green vegetables with it 

(Baked Ham. ) 

Soak for twelve hours. Trim away the rusty part from 
the under side and edges, wipe very dry, cover the bottom 
jyith a paste made of flour and hot water, and lay it upside 
down in the dripping-pan, with enough water to keep it 
from burning. Bake five hours, or allow fully twenty-five 
minutes to a pound. Baste now and then, to prevent the 
crust from cracking and scaling oif. When done, peel off 
this and the skin, and glaze as you would a cold ham. 

Put cut paper about the knuckle, and garnish with 
parsley and sliced red beet — ^pickled. 

Roast Ham. 

Soak for two days in lukewarm water, changing at leasl 
six times a day. Take it out, wash very well, scrubbing 
the under part hard, and trimming away the black and 
rusty edges. Skin with care, lest you mangle the meat 
and spoil the symmetry of the shape. Lay in a dish and 
sponge with a cloth dipped in a mixture of wine, vine- 
gar, sugar, and mustard — about a tablespoonful of white 
sugar, a saltspoonful of made mustard, and a glass of wiuf 
to half a gill of vinegar. Do this at intervals of an hour, 
washing every part of the ham well, all day and until bed 
time. Eenew the process next morning until sis hours b© 
fore you need the meat. Put it upon the spit or in tht 



150 COMMON SENSE. 

dripping-pan, with a cup of kot water to prevent burning 
Add to the mixture — or what is left of it in the dish — a 
cupful of boilLag water. Keep this on the stove and baste 
contiaually with it until the liquor flows freely from the 
ham as it cooks ; then substitute the gravy. When donp 
(you must test with a fork), cover with crackei'-crumbs, 
worked to a paste with milk, butter, and a beaten egg, and 
return to the oven to brown. 

Skim the gravy ; add a glass of good wine, a tablespoon- 
ful of catsup, — walnut, if you have it, — the juice of a lemon, 
and a little nutmeg. Boil up, and send to table in a 
boat. 

Troublesome as the mode of cooking it may seem, roast 
ham is so delicious — especially when cold — as fuUy to 
►ecompense the housekeeper who may be tempted to try it. 

Broiled Ham. 

Cut in slices. Wash well, and soak in scalding watei 
|tn a covered vessel for half an hour. Pour off the water 
and add more boiling water. Wipe diy when the ham has 
stood half an hour in the second water, and lay in cold for 
five minutes. Wipe again and broil over (or under) a 
(5 '.ear fire. 

Cold boiled ham, that is not too much done, is better 
for broiling than raw. Pepper before serving. 

Babbecued Ham. •!• 

If your ham is raw, soak as above directed ; tJhen lay 
the slices flat in a frying-pan ; pepper each and lay upon ii 
qiiarter of a teaspoonful of made rcustard. Pour about 
cLem some vinegar, allowing half a teaspoonful to each 
Blice. Fry quickly and turn often. When done to a fine 
brown, transfer to a hot dish ; add to the gravy in the pas 



POEK. 151 

half a glass of wiiie and a very small teasjoouful of whii4 
Bugar. Boil up and pour over the meat. 
Underdone ham is nice barbecued. 

Fkied Ham. 

If raw, soaik as for broiling. Cook in a hot frying-pan 
turning often until done. Serve with or without the gravy^ 
as you please. In some parts of the country it is custom 
ary to take the meat first from the pan, and add to the 
gravy a little cream, then thicken with flour. Boil up 
once and pour over the ham. A little chopped parsley ia 
a pleasant addition to this gravy. 

Or, 

You may dip some slices of cold boiled ham — cut rather 
thick — ^in beaten egg, then in cracker-crumbs, and fiy them 
in fat extracted from some bits of salt pork. Take the dry 
fried pork from the pan before putting in the ham. Gar- 
nish with crisped parsley. 

Ham Sandwiches. 

Cut some slices of bread in a neat shape, and trim otf 
the cnist, unless it is very tender. Butter them and lay 
between every two some thin slices of cold boiled ham. 
Spread the meat with a Kttle mustard if you like. 

Groimd ham makes delicious sandwiches. Cut the 
bread very thin, and butter well. Put in a good layer of 
liam, and press the two sides of the sandwiches firmly, but 
jjently, together. Then roll lengthwise, and pile in a plate 
M baskr-t. 

Ham and Chicken Sandwiches. 

Mince some cold roast cliicken, and a like quantity of 
eold boiled ham. Put the mixture into a saucepan, witlr 



152 OOltMON SEITSE. 

enough gravy — chicken or veal — to make a soft paste. If yo« 
have no gravy, use a Kttle hot water, a few spoonfuls of 
cream, and a fair lump of butter. Season with pepper t<> 
your taste. Stir while it heats almost to boiling, working 
it very smooth. In about five minutes after it begins tr 
smoko, take from the fire and spread in a dish to cool. 
With a good-sized cake-cutter, or a plain thin-edged tum- 
bler, cut some rounds of cold bread, and butter one side of 
each. Sprinkle the buttered sides with grated cheese, and, 
when the chicken is cold, put a layer between these. 
These sandwiches are simple and very good. 

Ham and Chicken Pie. 

Cut up and parboil a tender young chicken — a year old 
one is best. Line a deep dish with a good pie-crust. Cut 
some thin slices of cold boiled ham, and spread a layer next 
the crust ; then arrange pieces of the fowl upon the ham. 
Cover this, in turn, with slices of hard-boiled eggs, buttered 
and peppered. Proceed in this order iintil your material* 
are used up. Then pour in enough veal or chicken gravy 
to prevent dryness. Unless you have put in too mucn 
water for the size of the fowl, the liquor in which th« 
chicken was boiled is best for this purpose. Bake one houi 
and a quarter for a large pie. 

Ham and Eggs. 

Cut your slices of ham of a uniform size and shape. 
Fry quickly, and take them out of jhe pan as soon as thej 
are done. Have the eggs ready, and drop them, one at a 
time, in the hissing fat. Have a large pan for this purpose, 
that they may not touch and run together. In three min- 
ntes they will be done. The meat should be kept hoi, and 
whr'^ the eggs are ready, lay one upon each slice jf ham, 



POEK. 153 

which should have been cut the proper size for this. Do 
not use the gravy. 

Pork am) Beans. 

Parboil a piece of the middling of salt pork, and scoic 
the skin. Allow a pound to a quart of dried beans, which 
must be soaked over night in hikewarm water. Change 
this twice for more and warmer water, and in the morning 
put thefu on to boil iu cold. When they are soft, drain 
off the liquor, put the beans in a deep dish, and half-bury 
the pork ia the middle, adding a very little warm water. 
Bake a nice brown. 

This is a favorite dish with New England farmers and 
many others. Although old-fashioned, it still makes its 
weekly appearance upon the tables of hundreds of well-to- 
do families. 

Poke and Peas Pudding, 

Soak the pork, which should not be a fat piece, ovei 
uight in cold water ; and in another pan a quart of dried 
BpUt peas. In the morning put on the peas to boil slowly 
until tender. Drain and rub through a cullender ; season 
with pepper and salt, and mix with them two tablespoon 
fuls of butter and two beaten eggs. Beat all well togethei . 
Have ready a floured pudding-cloth, and put the pudding 
into it. Tie it up, leaving room for swelling ; put on in 
waim, not hot water, with the pork, and boil them together 
■n hour. Lay the pork in the centre of the dish, turn oat 
she piiddijig, sUce and arrange about the meat. 
7* 



154 OUHMOK SENSE. 



cn; KT tu IT » n if . 

Laying to your conduct the line and plninmet of th* 
<t olden Rule, never pay a visit (I use the word in contra- 
listinction to " call ") without notifying your hostess-elect 
of your intention thus to favor her. 

Perhaps once in ten thousand times, your friend — ba 
gne mother, sister, or intimate acquaintance — may be en- 
raptured at your unexpected appearance, travelling-satchel 
in hand, at her door, to pass a day, a night, or a month ; or 
may be pleasantly surprised when you take the baby^ and 
run in to tea in a social way. But the chances are so greatly 
in favor of the probability that you will upset her house- 
hold arrangements, abrade her temper, or put her to undue 
O'ouble or embarrassment, by this evidence of your wish to 
oave her feel quite easy with you, to treat you as one of 
(he family, that it is hardly worth your while to risk so 
oiuch in order to gain so little. 

Mrs. Partington has said more sUly things than any 
other woman of her age in this country ; but she spoke 
•visely in declaring her preference for those surprise-parties 
" when people sent word they were coming." Do not be 
ashamed to say to your nearest of kin, or the confidante of 
your school-days — "Always let me know when to look for 
you, that I may so order my time and engagements as to 
secure the greatest possible pleasure from your visit." If 
you are the woman I take you to be — methodical, indus- 
trious, and ruling your household according to just and 
Srm laws of order and punctuality, you need this notice. 
If you are likewise social and hospitable, your rules ara 
made with reference to possible and desirable interruptions 
of this nature. It only requires a little closer packing of 
eertaio duties, an easy exchange of times and seasons, and 



COMPANY. 15i 

leisuie is obtained for the right enjoyment of your friend's 
society. The additional place is set at table ; your spars 
bed, which yesterday was tossed into a heap that both mat- 
tresses might be aired, and covered lightly with a thin 
spread, is made up with fresh sheets that have not gath- 
ered damp and must from lying packed beneath blankets 
and coverlets for may be a month, for fear somebody might 
happen in to pass the night, and catch you with the bed in 
disorder. Towels and water are ready ; the room is bright 
and dustless ; the dainty dish so far prepared for dinner or 
tea as to be like Mrs. Bagnet's greens, " off your mind ; " 
John knows whom he is to see at his home-coming ; the 
children are clean, and on the qui vive — children's instincts 
are always hospitable. The guest's welcome is half given in 
the air of the house and the family group before you have 
time to utter a word. It may have appeared to her a use- 
5es3 formality to despatch the note or telegram you insisted 
upon. She knows you love her, and she would be wounded 
by the thought that she could ever " come amiss " to your 
home. Perhaps, as she lays aside her travelling-dress, shp 
smiles at your " ceremonious, old-maidish ways," and mar- 
vels that so good a manager should deem such forms necea 
sary with an old friend. 

If she had driven to your house at nightfall, to discovei 
that you had gone with husband and children to pass sev 
eral days with John's mother, in a Vown fifty miles away, 
and that the servants were out " a-pleasuring " in the mis- 
tress' absence ; if she had found you at home, nursing tliree 
cliildren through the measles, she having brought her 
youngest with her ; if you were yourself the invalid, bound 
hand and foot to a Procrustean couch, and utterly unable 
Bven to see her — John, meanwhile, being incapacitated from 
playing the part of agreeable host by wori-y and anxiety ; 
if, on the day before hei arrival, your chambermaid had 



156 COMMON SENSE. 

gone off in a " tiff," leaving you to do her work and to 
nurse youi' cook, sick in the third story ; if earlier comcm 
than herself had filled every spare mattress in the house ;— 
if any one of these, or a dozen other ills to which house- 
keepers are heirs, had impressed upon her the idea that her 
visit was inopportune, she might think better of yout 
" punctilio." 

But since unlooked-for visitors will occasionally drop 
in upon the best regulated families, make it your study to 
receive them gracefully and cordially. If they care enough 
for you to turn aside from their regular route to tarry a 
day, or night, or week with you, it would be churlish no* 
to show appreciation of the favor in which you are held. 
Make them welcome to the best you can offer at so short a 
notice, and let no preoccupied air or troubled smile bear 
token to your perturbation — if you are perturbed. If you 
respect yourself and your husband, the appointments of 
your table will never put yoij to the blush. John, who 
buys the silver, glass, china, and napery, is entitled to the 
every-day use of the best. You may have — I hope this is 
30 — a holiday set of each, put away beyond the reach of 
hourly accidents ; but if this is fit for the use of a lord, 
do not make John eat three hundred and sixty days in tl ,e 
year from such ware as would suit a ditcher's cottage. 1 f 
your children never see bright silver unless when "there 
is company," you cannot wonder, although you will I e 
mortified, at their making looking-glasses of the bowls of 
the spoons, and handling the forks awkwardly. Early im 
press upon them that what is nice enough for Papa, is nico 
enough for the President. I have noticed that where there 
is a wide difference between family and company table fur- 
niture, there usually exists a corresponding disparity b® 
tween every-day and company manners. 

Especially, let your welcome be ready and heartr wb « 



COMTANT. 157 

jrour husband brings home an unexpected guest. Tak6 
aire he understands clearly that this is his prerOjgalive ; 
that the mles by which you would govern the visits of 
your own sex are not applicable to his. Men rarely se< 
seasons for their visits. They snatch an hour or two with 
an old chum or new friend oiit of the hurry of business- 
life, as one stoops to pluck a stray violet from a dusty 
roailside. John must take his chances when be can get 
them. If he can walk home, arm in arm, with the school- 
fellow he has not seen before in ten years, not only fear- 
lessly, but gladly, anticipatory of your pleasure at the 
sight of his ; if, when the stranger is presentfd to you, you 
receive him as your friend because he is your husband's, and 
seat him to a family dinner, pl^in, but nicely served, and 
eaten in cheerfulness of heart; if the children are well- 
behaved, and your attire that of a lady who has not lost 
the desire to look her best in her husband's eyes — you have 
added to the links of steel that knit your husband's heart 
to you ; increased his affectionate admiration for the best 
little woman in the world. Many a man has been driven 
to entertain his friends at hotels and club-rooms, because 
he dared not take them home without permission from the 
presiding officer of his household. The majority of healthy 
men have good appetites, and are not disposed to be crit- 
ical of an unpretending bill of fare. The chance guest of 
this sex is generally an agreeable addition to the family 
group, instead of de Prop — always supposing him to ba 
John's friend. 

As to party and dinner-giving, your safest rule is to 
j>bey the usage of the community in which you live in 
minor points, letting common sense and your means guid» 
you in essentials. Be chary of undertaking what you can- 
aot caiTy through successfully. Pretention is the ruin of 
more entertainments than ignorance or lack of money. 1/ 



168 COMMON SENSE. 

you know how to give a large evening party (and ^hiiik ii 
a pleasant and remunerative investment of time and sev 
eral hundred dollars) — if you understand the machiuerj 
of a handsome dinner-party, • and can afford these lux 
uries, go forward bravely to success. But creep before you 
walk. Study established customs in the best managed 
houses you visit; take counsel with experienced frifcndsj 
aow and then make modest essays on your own resjjonsi 
bility, and, insensibly, these crumbs of wisdom will form 
into a comely loaf. There is no surer de-appetizer — to coin 
a word — to guests than a heated, over-fatigued, anxious 
hostess, who betrays her inoxpeiience by nervous glances, 
abstraction in conversation, and, worst of all, by apologies. 
A few general observations are all I purpose to offer as 
hints of a foundation upon which to build your plans for 
' company-giving." Have an abundance of clean plates, 
silver, knives, &c., laid in order in a convenient place, — 
Buch as an ante-room, or dining-room pantry, — those de- 
signed for each course, if your entertainment is a dinner, 
upon a shelf or stand by themselves, and make your wait- 
ers understand distinctly in advance in what order these 
are to be brought on. 

Soup should be sent up accompanied only by bread, and 
such sauce as may be fashionable or suitable. Before din- 
ner is served, however, snatch a moment, if possible, to 
inspect the table in person, or instruct a trustworthy fac- 
totum to see that everything is in place, the water in the 
goblets, a slice of bread laid upon a folded napkin at each 
plate, &c. Unless you have trained, professional waiters, 
this is a wise precaution. If it is a' gentleman's dinner, 
you can see to it for yourself, since you will not be obliged 
to appear in the parlor until a few minutes before they are 
summoned to the dining-room. If there are ladies- in the 
■jompany, you mtist not leave them. 



COMPANY. 15S 

To return, then, to our soup : It is not customary to 
offer a second plateful to a guest. When the table i» 
Bleared, the fish should come in, with potatoes — no othei 
vegetable, unless it be a salad or stewed tomatoes. Fish ia 
usually attended by pickles and sauces. After a thorough 
change of plates, &c., come the substantials. Game aud 
other meats are often set on together, unless the dinner ia 
a very protracted and formal one. Various vegetables are 
passed to each when he has been helped to meat. Jf wine 
be used, it is introduced after the fish. Pastry is the first 
relay of dessert, and puddings may be served from the 
-)ther end of the table. Next appear creams, jellies, char- 
lotte-russes, cakes, and the like ; then fruit and nuts ; lastly 
coiFee, often accompanied with crackers and cheese. Wine, 
of course, goes around during the dessert — if it flows at all. 

Evening parties are less troublesome to a housekeeper, 
because less ceremonious than dinners. If you can afford 
It, the easiest way to give a large one is to put the whole 
ousiness into the hands of the profession, by intrusting 
your order, not only for supper, but waiters and china, to a 
competent confectioner. But a social standing supper of 
oysters, chicken-salad, sandwiches, coffee, ice-cream, jellies, 
and cake, is not a formidable undertaking when you have 
bad a little praiCtice, especially if your own, or John's 
mother, or the nice, neighborly matron over the way will 
assist you by her advice and presence. 

We make this matter of company too hard a business 
in America ; are too apt to treat our friends as the Stras- 
burgers do their geese ; shut them up in overheated quai> 
tera, and stuff them to repletion. Our rooms would be 
bettor for more air, our guests happier had they mor(j 
Jiberty, and our hostess would be prettier and more spright 
ly were she not overworked before the arrivals begin, and 
full of trepidation after they come,— a woman cumbered 



160 COMMON SENSE. 

with many thoughts of serving, while she is supposed to \m 
enjoying the society of her chosen associates. It is so well 
understood that company is a weariness, that inquiries as to 
how the principal agent in bringing about an assembly ha,. 
" borne it," have passed into a custom. The tender sym- 
pathies manifested in such queries, the martyr-like air with 
which they are answered, cannot fail to bring to the satiri- 
cal mind the Chinaman's comment upon the British officeir' 
•lancing on ship-board in warm weather. 

" Why you no make your servants do so hard work^ 
and you look at dem ? " 

We- pervert the very name and meaning of hospitality 
when we pinch our families, wear away our patience, and 
waste away our nervous forces with our husbands' money 
in getting up to oi-der expensive entertainments for com. 
parative strangers, whose utmost acknowledgment of our 
efforts in their behalf will consist in an invitation, a year 
hence it may be, to a party constructed on the same plan, 
managed a Kttle better or a little worse than ours. This 
b not hospitality without grudging, but a vulgar system oi 
barter and gluttony more worthy of Abyssinians than 
Christian gentlefolk. 



VENISON. 



I ONCE received a letter from the wife of an Eastern 
man who had removed to the Great West, in which bitter 
complaints were made of the scarcity of certain comforts — 
ice-cream and candy among them — to which she had been 
accustomed in other days. " My husband shot a fine deei 
this morning," she Yrrote, " but I never could endure ven- 
eon. Can you tell me of any way of cooking it so as to 



VKNIBON. 161 

make it tolerab.y eatible ? " I did not think it very smgu 
lar that one whose chief craving in ihe goodly land in wliicl' 
Bhe had found a home was for cocoanut cakes and choc* 
late caramels, should not like the viand the name of which 
she could not spell. Nor did I wonder that she failed tc 
make it " eatible," or doubt that her cooking matched hei 
orthography. But I am amazed often at hearing really 
skilful housewives pronounce it an undesirable dish. Tn 
the hope of in some measure correcting this impression 
among Eastern cooks, who, it must be allowed, rarely taste 
really fresh venison, I have written out, with great care and 
particularity, the following receipts, most of which I have 
used in my own family with success and satisfaction. 

The dark color of the meat, — I mean now not the black, 
but rich reddish-brown flesh, — so objectionable to the unin- 
itiated, is to the gourmand one of its chief recommendations 
to his favor. It should also be fine of grain and well 
coated with fat. 

Keep it hung up in a cool, dark cellar, covered with a 
cloth, and use as soon as you can conveniently. 

Haunch of Venison. »J* 

If the outside be hard, wash off with lukewarm water ; 
then riib all over with fresh butter or lard. Cover it on 
the top and sides with a thick paste of flour and water, 
nearly half an inch thick. Lay upon this a large sheet of 
thin white wrapping-paper well buttered, and above this 
thick foolscap. Keep all in placo by greased pack-thread 
then put down to roast with a Kitle water in the dripping- 
pan. Let the fire be steady and strong. Pour a few ladle 
fuls of butter and water over the meat now and then, to 
prevent the paper from scorching. If the haunch is largo, 
It will take at least five hours to roast. About half an 
hour before you take it up, remove the papei-s and paste 



162 COMMON SENSE. 

and test with a skewer to see if it is done. If this pa,sse» 
easily to the bone through the thickest part, set it down ta 
a more moderate fire and baste every few minutes with 
claret wiue and melted butter. At the last, baste with but- 
ter, dredge with flour to make a light froth, and dish. It 
should be a fine brown by this time. Twist a frUl of fiinged 
paper around the knuckle. 

For gravy, put into a saucepan a pound or so of scraps 
of raw venison left from trimming the haunch, a quart oi 
water, a pinch of cloves, a few blades of mace, half a nut- 
meg, cayenne and salt to taste. Stew slowly to one-half the 
original quantity. Skim, strain, and return to the sauce- 
pan when you have rinsed it with hot water. Add three 
fcablespoonfuls of currant jelly, a glass of claret, two table- 
spoonfuls of butter, and thicken with browned flour. Send 
bo table in a tureen. 

Send around currant jelly with venison always. 

Neck. 

This is roasted precisely as is the haunch, allowing a 
quarter of an hour to a pound. 

Shoulder 

This is also a roasting-piece, but may be cooked without 
the paste and paper. Baste often with butter and water, 
and toward the last, with claret and butter. Do not let it 
get dry for an instant. 

To Stew a Shoulder. 

Extract the bones through the under-side. Make a 
stuffing of several slices of fat mutton, minced fine and 
seasoned smartly wilh cayenne, salt, allspice, and wine, and 
fill the holes from which the bones were taken. Bin J 
firmly in shape with broad tape. Put in a large saujepoD 



TENISON. L63 

wiih a pint of gravy made from tlie refuse bits of reiiison, 
Mid a glass of Madeira or port -wine, and a littk black pep 
per. Cover tightly and steve very slowly three or fout 
hours, according to the size. It should be very tender. 
Remove the tapes with care ; dish, and when you Lava 
strained the gravy, pour over the meat. 
This is a most savory dish. 

Venison Steaks. •{« 

These are taken from the neck or haunch. Have j oui 
gridiron well buttered, and fire clear and hot. Lay the 
eteaks on the bars and bi-oil rapidly, turning often, not to 
lose a drop of juice. They will take three or four minutes , 
Jonger to broil than beef-steaks. Have ready in a hot chafing- 
Jish a piece of butter the size of an egg for each pound of 
venison, a pinch of salt, a little pepper, a tablespoonful 
•;ur rant-jelly for each poimd, and a glass of wine for every 
four pounds. This should be liquid, and warmed by the 
boiling water under the dish by the time the steaks are dono 
to a turn. If yo\i have no chafing-dish, heat in a saucepan. 
Lay each steak in the mixttire singly, and turn over twice. 
Cover closely and let all heat together, with fresh hot water 
beneath — unless your lamp is burning — for five minutes 
before serving. If you serve in an ordinary dish, cover and 
get in the oven for the same time. 

Or, 

If you wish a plainer dish, omit the wine and jelly ; popper 
and salt %e steaks when broiled, and lay butter upon tLem 
in th5 proportion I have stated, letting them stand between 
two hot dishes five minutes before they go to table, turning 
them three times in the gravy that runs from them to min- 
gle with the melted butter. Delicious steaks correspond 
ing in shape to mutton chops are cut from the loin and rack 



164 common sense. 

Venison Cutlets. »{• 

Trim the cutlets nicely, and make gravy of the refaw 
bits in the proportion of a cup of cold water to half a pound 
of venison. Put in bones, scraps of fat, etc., and eet fm in 
a saucepan to stew while you make ready the cutlets. Lard 
with slips of fat salt pork a quarter of an inch apart, and 
projecting slightly on either side. When the gravy has 
stewed an hour, strain and let it cool. Lay the cutlets in a 
saucepan, with a few pieces of young onion on each. Allow 
one onion to four or five pounds. It should not be flavored 
strongly with this. Scatter also a little minced parsley 
and thyme between the layers of meat, with pepper, and a 
very little grated nutmeg. The pork lardoons will salt 
sufficiently. When you have put in all your meat, pour in 
She gravy, which should be warm — not hot. Stew steadily 
twenty minutes, take up the cutlets and lay in a frying-pan 
in which you have heated just enough butter to prevent 
them from^ burning. Fry five minutes very quickly, turn- 
ing the cutlets over and over to brown, without drying 
them. Lay in order in a chafing-dish, and have ready the 
gravy to pour over them without delay. This should be 
done by straining the liquor left in the saucepan and return- 
ing to the fire, with the addition of a tablespoonful of cur- 
rant jelly, a teaspoonful Worcestershire or other piquant 
sauce, and half a glass of wine. Thicken with browned 
flour, boil up well and pour over the cutlets. Let all stand 
together in a hot dish five minutes before serving. Venison 
which is not fat or juicy enough for roasting makes a relish- 
iible dish cooked after this receipt. 

■ Hashed Venison, i^ 

The remains of cold roast venison — especially a stuffed 
ihoulder — may be used for this dish, and will gi\e grea* 



VENISON. 1 65 

BxaBfaction to cook and consumers. Slice the meat from 
the boneB. Put these with the fat and other scraps in a 
saucepan, with a large teacupful of cold water, a small 
onion — one of the button kind, minced, parsley and tliyme, 
pepper and salt, and three or four whole cloves. Stew for 
an hour. Strain and return to the saucepan, with whatever 
gravy was left from the roast, a tablespoonful currant jelly, 
one of tomato or mushroom catsup, a teaspoonful of an- 
chovy sauce, and a Uttle browned flour. Boil for three 
minutes ; lay in the venison, cut into slices about an inch 
long, and let all heat over the fire for eight minutes, but do 
not allow the hash to boil. Stir frequently, and when it is 
Rmoking hot, t\im into a deep covered dish. 

EoAST Fawn. 

Clean, wash thoroughly; stufi" with a good force-meat 
made of bread-crumbs, chopped pork, pepper and salt, a little 
grated nutmeg, the juice of a lemon. Moisten with water 
and cream, bind with beaten egg and melted butter. Sew 
up the fawn, turning the legs under, and binding close to 
the body. Cover with thin slices of fat pork, bound on with 
pack-thread, crossing in every direction, and roast at a quick 
fire. Allow twenty-two minutes to a pound. Twenty min- 
utes before it is dished, remove the pork, and set down the 
fawn to brown, basting with melted butter. At the last, 
dredge with flour, let this brown, fi-oth with butter, and 
serve. 

Garnish with abimdance of curled parsley, dotted with 
drops of red currant jelly. A kid can be roasted in the same 
way — also hares and rabbits. 

Venison Pasty. 4" 

This is a name dear to the heart of the Englishmnx. 
glnce the days when Friar Tuck feasted the disguised Corut 



166 COJVOrlOH SENSE. 

de 7.ion npon it in the depths of Sherwooil Forest, imti3 
the present geaeration. In this country it is comparativolj 
little kno-wn ; but I recommend it to those who have ne^ea 
yet been able to make venison " tolerably eatable." 

Almost any part of the deer can be used for the purpose, 
but the neck and shoulders are generally preferred. 

Cut the raw verdson from the bones, and set aside these, 
with the skin, fat, and refuse bits, for gravy. Put them in- 
to a saucepan with a shallot, pepper, salt, nutmeg and sweet 
herbs, cover well with cold water, and set on to boil. 
Meanwhile, cut the better and fairer pieces of meat into 
squares an inch long, and cook in another saucepan until 
three-quarters done. Line a deep dish with good puff-paste. 
That for the lid should be made after the receipt appended 
io this. Put in the squares of venison, season with pepper, 
salt, and butter, and put in half a cupful of the liqvior in 
which the meat was stewed, to keep it from burning at the 
bottom. Cover with a lid of the prepared pastry an inch 
thick. Cut a round hole in the middle, and if you have not 
a small tin cylinder that will fit this, make one of buttered 
paper ; stiff writing-paper is best. The hole should be large 
enough to admit your thumb. Bake steadily, covering tb« 
top with a sheet of clean paper so soon as it is firm, to prevenii 
it from browning too-fast. While it is cooking prepare the 
gravy. When all the substance has been extracted from the 
bones, etc., strain the liquor back into the saucepan; let it 
come to a boil, and when you have skimmed carefully, add 
a glass of port wine, a tablespoonful of butter, the juice of 
a, lemon, and some browned flour to thicken. BoU up onoe, 
romove the plug from the hole in the pastry, and pour in 
through a small funnel, or a paper horn, as much gravy aa 
the pie will hold. Do this very quickly ; brush the crust 
over with beaten egg, and put back in the oven until it i» 
a delicate brown, or father, a golden russet. The pic shouiJ 



V1CNI80N. 16T 

only be drawn to the door of the ovei. flor these Dpei-aUons, 
«nd everything should be in readiness before it is taken 
out, that the crust may be light and flaky. If you have 
more gravy than you need for the dish, serve in a tureen 

Ckust of Pasty. 

H lb. of flour. 
12 oz. butter. 
3 eggs. 
Salt. 
Ice-water. 

Dry and sift the flour and cut up half the butter in it wixl 
a knife or chopper until the whole is fine and yellow ; salt, 
and work up with ice-water, lastly adding the eggs beaten 
very light. Work out rapidly, handling as little as pos- 
sible, roll out three times very thin, basting with butter, 
then into a lid nearly an inch thick, reserving a thin 
ner one for ornaments. Having covered in your pie, cut 
from the second sheet with a cake-cutter, leaves, flowers, 
Btars, or any figures you like to adorn the top of your crust. 
Bake the handsomest one upon a tin plate by itself and 
brush it over with egg when you glaze the pie. After the 
pasty is baked, cover the hole in the centre with this. 

If these directions be closely followed the pasty will be 
delicious. Bake two or three hours, guiding yourself by 
the size of the pie. It is good hot or cold. 

Venison Ham. 

These are eaten raw, and will not keep so long as otbei 
■moked meats. 

Mix together in equal proportions, salt and brow^ 
ingar, and rub them hard into the hams with your hand, 
Pank them in a cask, sprinkling dry salt between tbetu, 



Id8 common sense. 

and let them lie eight days, rubbing them over evury daj 
with dry salt and sugar. Next mi-x equal parts of fine salt, 
molasses, and a teaspoonful of saltpetre to every two hams. 
Take the hams out of the pickle, go over them with a brush 
dipped in cider vinegar, then in the new mixture. Empty 
the cask, wash it ouc with cold water, and repack the hams, 
dripping from the sticky bath, scattering fine salt over each. 
Let them lie eight days longer in this. Wash off the pickle 
first with tepid water, until the salt crystals are removed ; 
then sponge with vinegar, powder them with bran while 
wet, and smoke a fortnight, or, if large, three weeks. Wrap 
in brown paper that has no unpleasant odor, stitch a muslin 
cover over this, and whitewash, unless you mean to use at 
Ance. Chip or shave for the table. 

Venison Sausages. 

5 lbs. lean visnison. 

2 " fat salt pork, 

5 teaspoonfuls powdered sage. 

4 « salt. 

4 " black, pepper. 

2 " cayenne. 

1 small onion. 

Juice of one lemon. 

Chop the meat very small, season, and pack in skins or 
small stone jars. Hang the skins, and set the jars, tied 
down with bladders, in a cool, diy place. 

Fry as you do other sausages. 

RABBITS OR HARES. 

The tame rabbit is rarely if ever eaten. The wQd hai-u 
of the South — ^in vulgar parlance, " old hare," although the 
creature may be but a day old — exactly corresponds wit* 



BABBITS OB HABEB. 169 

the rabbit of the Northern fields, and when fat and tender 
may be made into a variety of excellent dishes. 

Hares are unfit for eating in the early spring. There ia 
thus much significance in " Mad as a March hare." The 
real English hare is a much larger animal than that which 
IM known in this country by this name. To speak correctly, 
all our " old field hares " are wild rabbits. 

Roast Rabbit. 

Clean, wash, and soak in water slightly salted for an 
hour and a half, changing it once during this time. It is 
best to make your butcher or hired man skin it before 
^ou undertake to handle it. Afterward, the task is easy 
enough. Parboil the heart and liver, chop fine, and mix 
with a slice of fat pork, also minced. Make a force-meat 
of bread-crumbs, well seasoned and quite moist, usiag the 
(yater in which the giblets were boiled, and working in the 
minced meat. Stufi" the body with this, and sew it up. 
Rub with butter and roast, basting with butter and water 
antil the gravy flows freely, then with the dripping. It 
should be done in an hour. Dredge with flour a few min- 
utes beibre taking it up, then froth with butter. Lay in a 
hot dish, add to the gravy a little lemon-juice, a young 
onion minced, a tablespoonful of butter, and thicken with 
browned flour. Give it a boil up, and serve in a tureen or 
boat. 

Garnish the rabbit with sliced lemon, and put a dot of 
currant jelly in the centre of each slice. Cut o£F the head 
befoj-e sending to table. 

Rabbits Stewed with Onions. 

dean a pair of nice rabbits ; soak in cold salt and watei 
for an hour, to draw out the blood ; put on in a large sauce- 



170 gOMMON SENSE. 

pan with cold water enough to cover them, salt sligL Hy, 
and stew until tender. Slice in another pot half a do^en 
onions, and boil in a very little water until thoroughly done. 
Drain off the water, and stir the onions into a gill of drawn 
butter, pepper to taste, and whpn it simmers, a(ld the juice 
of a lemon. Cut off the heads of the hares, lay in a hot 
dish and pour over them the onion-sauce. Let the dish 
stand in a warm place, closely covered, five minutes before 
sending to table. 

Fbicasseed Rabbit ( White). 4" 

Clean two young ralfbits, cut into joints, and soak in 
salt and water an hour. Put into a saucepan with a pint 
of cold water, a bunch of sweet herbs, an onion finely 
minced, a pinch of mace, one of nutmeg, pepper, and half a 
pound of fat salt pork, cut into sUps. Cover, and stew 
until tender. Take out the rabbits and set in a dish where 
they \i'ill keep warm. Add to the gravy a cup of cream (or 
milk), two well-beaten eggs stirred in a little at a time, and 
a tablespoonful of fcutter. Boil up once— when you have 
thickened with flour wet in cold milk — and take the saucepan 
from the fixe. Squeeze in the juice of a lemon, stirring all 
the while, and pour over the rabbits. Do not cook the head 
or neck. 

Fbicasseed Rabbit (JBrovm).. 

Cut off the head, — joint, and lay in soak for an hour. 
Season the pieces with pepper and salt, dredge with flour, 
and fry in butter or nice dripping until brown. Take fi oiu 
the fat, lay in a saucepan, and cover with broth made of 
bits of veal or lamb. Add a minced onion, a great spoonful 
of walnut cats\ip, a bunch of sweet herbs, a pinch of cloven 
and one of allspice, half a teaspoonful of cayenne. Covei 
closelv. and simmer for half an Kou' l.av the pieces of 



SABBITS 6e hares. 171 

late in order upon a hot dish and cover to keep warEo, 
Stiain the gravy, relurn to the saucepan, thicken with 
browned flour, put in a tablespoonfiil of butter, squeeze in 
the juice of a lemou, pour over the rabbits, and send tv 
table. 

Larded Rabbit. 

Cut off the head and divide the body into joints. Lard 
with slips of fat pork ; put into a clean hot frying-pan ana 
fty until half done. Have ready some strained gravy made 
of veal or beef — the first is better ; put the pieces of rabbit 
into a saucepan, with a bunch of sweet herbs, a minced onion, 
and some pepper. Stew, closely covered, half an hour, or 
unti] tender ; take out the rabbits and lay in a hot covered 
dish. Strain the gravy, add a tablespoonful of butter, the 
juice of a lemon, and thicken with flour. Boil up and poui 
over the meat. 

Fried Rabbit. 

They must be very tender for this purpose. Cut into 
joints ; soak for an hour in salt and water ; dip in beaten 
egg, then in powdered cracker, and fry brown in nice sweet 
lard or dripping. Serve with onion sauce. Garnish witl* 
sliced lemon. 

Barbecued Rabbit. ^ 

Clean and wash the rabbit, which must be plump and 
young, and having opened it all the way on the under-sido, 
lay it flat, with a smaU plate or saucer to keep it down, in 
Baited water for half an hour. Wipe dry and broil whole, 
■with the exception of the head, when you have gasl^id 
across the back-bone in eight or ten places that the neat 
may penetrate this, the tliickest part. Your fire should be 
hot and clear, the rabbit turned often. When browned and 
tender, lay upon a very hot dish, pepper and salt and buttei 
profusely, turning the rabbit over and over to soak ujj th» 



173 COMMON SENSE. 

melted butter. Cover and set in the oven for five mini ,tea, 
and heat in a tin cup two tablespoonfuls of vinegar season 
ed -with one of made mustard. Anoint the hot rabbit -well 
with this, cover and send to table garnished with crisped 
parsley. 

The odor of this barbecne is most appetizing, and the 
tflfite not a whit inferior. 

Rabbit Pie. 

Cut a pair of rabbits into eight pieces each, soak in salt- 
ed water half an hour, and stew until half done in enough 
water to cover them. Cut a quarter of a pound of fat pork 
into slips, and boil four eggs hard. Lay some bits of pork 
in the bottom of a deep dish and ujDon these a layer of the 
nibbit. Upon this spread slices of boiled egg, peppered and 
battered. Sprinkle, moreover, with a little powdered mace, 
and squeeze a few drops of lemon-juice upon each piece of 
meat. Proceed in this order until the dish is full, the top 
layer being pork. Pour in the water in which the rabbit 
■was boiled, when you have salted it and added some lumps 
of butter rolled in flour. Cover with puff-paste, cut a slit 
in the middle, and bake one hour, laying paper over the top 
should it brown too fast. 

SQUIRRELS. 

The large gray squiiTel is seldom eaten at the North, 
but in great request in Virginia and other Southern States. 
It is generally bajrbecued, precisely as are rabbits ; broiled, 
fricasseed, or — ^most popular of all — ^made into a Brunswick 
gtew. This is named from Brunswick County, Virginia, and 
is a famous dish — or was — at the political and social pic-nics 
feT.ov,Ta as barbecues. I am happy to be able to give a re- 
ceipt for this stew that is genuine and explicit, and fot 
v'ui'-h ( nrn indebted to a Virginia housekeeper. 



Brunswick Stew. J^ 

2 fc(\iiirrela — 3, if small. 

1 quart of tomatoes — peeled and sliced. 

1 pint butter-beans, or Lima. 

6 potatoes, parboiled and sliced. 

6 ears of green corn cut from the cob 

J- lb. butter. 

^ " fat salt pork. 

1 teaspoonful ground black pepper. 

Half a teaspoonful cayeime. 

1 gallon water. 

1 tablespoonful salt. 

2 teaspoonfuls white sugar. 
1 onion, minced small. 

Put on the water with the salt in it, and boil five mm 
Ltiss. Put in the onion, beans, corn, pork or bacon cut 
into shreds, potatoes, pepper, and the squirrels, which must 
first be cut into joints and laid in cold salt and water to 
draw out the blood. Cover closely and stew two and a 
half hours very slowly, stirring frequently from the bot- 
tom. Then add the tomatoes and svigar, and stew an hour 
longer. Ten minutes before you take it from the fire add 
the butter, cut into bits the size of a walnut, rolled in 
flour. Give a final boil, taste to see that it is seasoned tc 
your liking, and turn into a soup-tureen. It is eaten from 
Boup-plates. Chickens may be substituted for squirrela. 

Ragout of Squikkels. 

Skin, clean, and quarter a pair of fine young squirrels, 
imd soak in salt and water to draw out the blood. Slico a 
tolerably large onion and fi-y brown in a tablespoonful of 
butter. Stir into the frying-pan five tablespoonfuls of boil 
Jig water, and thicken with two teaspoonful^ of browned 



174 COMMON SENSE. 

£.our. Pul the squirrels into a saucepan, with a qaarttn 
of a pound of bacon cut into slips ; season with pepper and 
Bait to taste, add the onions and their gravy, and half a 
cupful of tepid water. Cover and stew for forty minutes, 
or until tender ; pour in a glass of wine and the juice i f 
half a lemon, shake around well, and turn into a deep coi 
ereJ dish, 

Bkoiled Squirrels. 

Clean and soak to draw out the blood. Wipe dry and 
liroil over a hot, clear fire, turning often. When done; lay 
i ft a hot dish and anoint with melted bxitter, seasoned with 
yepper and salt. Use at least a tablespoonful for each 
V juirrel, and let it lie between two hot dishes five minutea 
) efore sending to table. 

PHEASANTS, PARTRIDGES, QUAILS, GROUSE, 
ETC. 
The real pheasant is never sold in American markets. 
The bird known as such at the South is called a partridge 
at the North, and is, properly speaking, the ruffled grouspi. 
The Northern quail is the English and Southern pattridge. 
The wild fowls brought by the hundred dozen from the Far 
West to Eastern cities, and generally styled prairie-fowls, 
are a species of grouse. The mode of cooking aJl these ifl 
substantially the same. 

Roast. 

Clean, truss, and stuflF as you do chickens ; roast at a 
hot fire, and baste with butter and water until brown { 
Bprinkl> with salt, dredge lightly at the last with flour to 
froth the birds, and serve hot. Thicken ihe gravy with 
browned flour, boil up, and serve in a boat. Wash the in- 
»ide of all game — prairie-fowls in particular — with soda and 
Vatcr, nnsiag out carefully afterward with fair water. 



PHEjBAJiraS, PAKTKIDGES, QUAILS, ETC. 17S 

Broiled. 

Clean, wash, and split down the back. Lay in cold 
water half an hour. Wipe carefully, season with salt and 
pepper, and broil on a giidii-on over a bright fire. When 
done, lay in a hot dish, butter on both sides well, and ser\« 
at once. 

Broiled quails are delicious and nourishing fare for in 
valids. 

Grouse roasted with Bacon. >^ 

Cleafi, truss, and stuff as usual. Cover the entire bird 
with thin slices of corned ham or pork, binding all with 
buttered pack-thread. Roast three-quarters of an hour, 
casting with butter and water three times, then with the 
dripping. When quite done, dish with the ham laid about 
rhe body of the bird. Skim the gravy, thicken with 
browned flour, season with pepper and the juice of a lemon. 
Boil up once. 

Quails roasted with Ham. •{« 

Proceed as with the grouse, but cover the ham or pork 
with a sheet of white paper, having secured the slices of 
meat with pack-thread. Stitch the papers on, and keep 
them well basted with butter and water, that they may not 
bum. Roast three-quarters of an hour, if the fire is good. 
Remove the papers and meat before sending to table, and 
brown quickly. This is the nicest way of cooking quails. 

Salmi of Game. 

Cut cold roast partridges, grouse, or quails into joints 
tmd lay aside while you prepare the gravy. This is made 
of the bones, dressing, skin, and general odds and ends, 
«fter you have selected the neatest pieces of the birds. Put 
flieso — ^the scraps — into a saucepan, with one small onion, 



176 COMMON SENSE. 

minced, and a bunch of sweet herbs; pour in a pint ol 
water, and whatever gravy you may have, and stew, close- 
ly covered, for nearly an hour. A few bits of port should 
be added if you have no gravy. Skim and strain, returri 
to the fire, and add a little brown sherry and lemon-juioe, 
with a pinch of nutmeg ; thicken with brown flour, if th« 
stuffing has not thickened it sufficiently, boil up, and pout 
over the reserved meat, which should be put into another 
saucepan. Warm until all is smoking-hot, but do not .let 
it boil. Arrange the pieces of bird in a symmetrical heap 
upon a dish, and pour the gravy over them. 

Game Pie — ( Very fine). 

This may be made of any of the birds named in the 
foregoing receipts. Grouse and quails together make a de- 
lightful Christmas pie. Clean and wash the birds ; cut the 
quails in half, the grouse into four pieces. Trim ofi" bits 
of the inferior portions, necks, lower ribs, etC;, aud put 
them with the giblets into a saucepan, with a pint and a 
half of water, if your pie requires six birds. While this is 
stewing make a good puff-paste and line a large pudding- 
dish, reserving enough for a Ud at least half an inch thick. 
When the livers are tender, take them out, leaving the 
gravy to stew in the covered saucepan. Lard the breasts 
of the birds with tiny strips of salt pork, and mince a cou- 
ple of slices of the same with the livers, a bunch of parsley, 
sweet marjoram, and thyme, also chopped fine, the juice 
of a lemon, pepper, and a very small shallot. Make a force- 
meat of this, with bread-crumbs moistened with warm 
milk. Put some thin strips of cold corned (not smoked) 
ham in the bottom of the pie, next to the crust ; lay upon 
these pieces of the bird, peppered and buttered, then a layei 
of the force-meat, and so on, until you are ready for th< 
gravy. Sti-ain this, return to the fire, and season witfc 



PHEASAJSTS, PAKTKIDGES, QUAILS, ETC. ITT 

popper and a. glass of wine. Heat to a boil, pour into the 
pie, and cover with the upper crust, cutting a slit in the 
middle. Ornament with pastry leaves, vrranged in 8 
wreath about the edge, and in the middle a pastry bird, 
with curled strips of pastry about it. These last should be 
baked separately and laid on when the pie is done, to cove' 
the hole in the middle. 

Bake three hours if your pie is large, covering ■with pa 
per if it threaten to brown too fast. 

Quail Pie. 

Clean, truss, and stuff the birds. Loosen the joints with 
B penknife, but do not separate them. Parboil them for 
ten minutes, while you prepare a puff-paste. Line a deep 
dish with this ; put in the bottom some shreds of salt pork 
or ham ; next, a layer of hard-boiled eggs, buttered and 
peppered; then the birds, sprinkled with pepper and 
minced parsley. Squeeze some lemon-juice upon them, and 
lay upon the breasts pieces of butter roUed in flour. Cover 
with slices of egg, theii with shred ham ; pour in some of 
the gravy in which the quaUs were parboiled, and put on 
the Kd, leaving a hole in the middle. Bake over an hour. 

Wild Pigeons {Stewed). >^ 

Clean and wash very carefully, then lay in salt and wa- 
ter for an hour. Einse the inside with soda and water, 
shiiking it well about in the cavity ; wash out with fair 
water and stuff with a force-meat made of bread-crumbs and 
chopped salt pork, seasoned with pe^sper. Sew up the bivaa, 
and put on to stew in enough cold water to cover them, 
and allow to each a fair slice of fat bacon cut into narrow 
itrips. Season with pepper and a pinch of nutmeg. Boil 
slowly in a co'vered saucepan until tender ; take from th« 
gravy and lay in a covered dish lo keep warm. Strain thf 
8* 



178 COMMON 8ENBE. 

gravy, add the juice of a lemon and a tablespoonful of ciir> 
rant jelly, thickening with browned flour. Boil up and 
po ir over the pigeons. 

Wild-Pigeon Pie. ►{« 

This is made precisely as is quail pie, except that tha 
pigeons are cut into four pieces each, and not stuifed. Par- 
boil and lay in the dish in alternate layers with the bacon 
and boUed eggs. Make the gravy richer than for the quails, 
by the addition of a good lump of butter, rolled in flour, 
stirred in and boiled up to thicken before you put it on 
the fire. Wild pigeons are usually tougher and leaner than 
tame. 

WILD DUCKS. 

Nearly all wild ducks are liable to have a fishy flavor, 
and when handled by inexperienced cooks, are sometimea 
uneatable from this cause. Before roasting them, guard 
agaiust this by parboiling them with a small carrot, peeled, 
put within each. This wiU absorb the unpleasant taste. An 
onion will have the same effect ; but, unless you mean to 
use onion in the stuffing, the carrot is preferable. In my 
own kitchen I usually put in the onion, considering a sus- 
picion of garlic a desideratum in roast duck, whether wild 
or tame. 

Roast Duck ( WUd). 

Parboil as above directed ; throw away the carrot or 
»nion, lay in fresh water half an hour ; stuff with bread- 
crumbs seasoned with pepper, salt, sage, and onion, and 
roast until brown and tender, basting for half the time with 
butter and water, then with the drippings. Add to tha 
gravy, when you have taken xvp the ducks, a tablespoonful 
of currant jelly, and a pinch of cayenne. Thicken with 
browned flour and serve in a tureen. 



■WILD DUCKS WILD TUEKEY. 179 

Wild Ducks {Stewed). "J* 

Parboil ten minv+ies, when you have drawn them, and 
put in a raw carrot or onion. Lay in very cold water half 
bh hour. Cut into joints, pepper, salt, and flour them. 
Have ready some butter in a frying-pan, and fry them a 
light brown. Put them in a saucepan and cover with gravy 
made of the giblets, necks, and some bits of lean veal. Add 
a minced shallot, a bunch of sweet herbs, salt, and pepper. 
Cover closely and stew half an hour, or until tender. Take 
out the duck, strain the gravy when you have skimmed it ; 
put in a half-cup of cream or rich milk in which an egg haa 
heen beaten, thicken with browned flour, add a tablespoon- 
ful of wine and the juice of half a lemon, beaten in gradual- 
ly not to curdle the cream ; boU up and pour over the ducks. 
This is about the best way of cooking wild ducks. 

WILD TUEKEY. 

This stately stalker of Southera forests and Western 
prairies is eagerly sought after by the lovers of good eating 
m those regions. The dark meat and game flavor proclaim 
his birthright of lordly freedom as truly after he is slain 
and cooked, as did his lithe grace of figure, lofty carriage, 
and bright eye while he trod his native wilds. I have heard 
spoi-tsmen declare that when they have inveigled Mm up to a 
blind by imitating the call of his harem or younglings, they 
have stood in covert, gun at shoulder and finger on the 
trigger, spell-bound by pitying admiration of his beauty. 
But I have never seen that sensibility curbed appetite while 
they told the story at the table adorned by the royal bird , 
have noted, indeed, that their mouths watered rather than 
their eyes, as he crumbled, like a dissolving view, under the 
9lade of the carver. 

Draw and wash the inside very carefully, as with aL 



180 COMMON bESrSE. 

game. Domestit fowls are, or should be, kept ap wi thotit 
eating for at least twelve hours before they are killed ; but 
we must shoot wild when we can get the chance, and of 
course it often happens that their crops are distended by a 
recent hearty meal of rank or green food. Wipe the cavity 
with a dry soft cloth before you stuff. Have a rich force- 
meat, bread-crumbs, some bits of fat pork, chopped fine, 
pepper, and salt. Moisten with mUk, and beat in an egg 
and a couple of tablespoonfuls of melted butter. Baste with 
butter and water for the first hour, then three or four times 
with the gravy; lastly, five or six times with melted butter. A 
generous and able housekeeper told me once that she al- 
ways allowed a pound of butter for basting a large wild 
turkey. This was an extravagant quantity, but the meat 
is drier than that of the domestic fowl, and not nearly so 
fat. Dredge with flour at the last, froth with butter, and 
when he is of a tempting brown, serve. Skim the gravy, 
add a little hot water, pepper, thicken with the giblets chop- 
ped fine and browned flour, boil up, and pour into a tureen. 
At the South the giblets are not put in the gravy, but laid 
whole, one under each wing, when the turkey is dished. 
Garnish with small fried sausages, not larger than a dollar; 
crisped parsley between them. 

Send around currant jelly and cranberry sauce with it. 

SMALL BIRDS. 

Moast Snipe or Plovers. 

Clean and truss, but do not stuff. Lay in rows in the 
nnpping-pan, or tie upon a spit, sprinkle with salt, and baste 
Well with butter, then with butter and water. When they 
begin tc brown, which will be in about ten minutes, cut as 
aiany rounds of bread (without crust) as there are birds. 
Toast quickly, butter, and lay in the drippihg-pan, a bird 



SMALL BIRDS. 181 

apon each. Wlien the birds are don&, serve ipon the toasl^ 
with the gravy poured over it. The toast should lie under 
them whDe cooking at least five minutes, during which time 
Ihe bii-ds should be basted with melted butter seasoned 
with pepper. 

The largest snipe -will not require above twenty miautea 
to roast. 

Woodcock. 

This is the most delicious of small birds, and may be 
either roasted or broiled. 

Roast. 

The English do not dra-w woodcock, r»igarding the traU 
as a honrie houclie, and I have known American house- 
keepers who copied them in this respect. In this case, 
roast precisely as you would snipe or plover, only putting 
the toast under the birds so soon as they begin to cook, 
to catch the trail. 

To my taste, a better, and certainly to common sense 
people a less objectionable plan, is to fill the birds with a 
rich force-meat of bread-crumbs, peppered and salted, mois- 
tened with cream until it is very soft, and shortened with 
melted butter. Sew them up and roast, basting with bu+teir 
and water, from twenty minutes to half an hour. Wheir 
half done, put circular slices of buttered toast beneath, 
and serve upon these when you take them up. 

JBroUed. 

Split down the back, and broil over a clear fire. Butter, 
pepper, and salt when done, and let them lie between twr 
hot dishes for five minutes before sending to table. Small 
gnipe are nice broiled in this way ; also robins and loves. 



182 common bense. 

Salmi of Woodcock ok Snipe. 

Clean and half-roast the birds ; cut in quarters, and pul 
in a saucepan witli gravy made of tlie giblets, necks, and 
some bits of fat pork, stewed in a little water. Add a 
minced button onion, salt, and a pinch of cayenne, and ste« 
fifteen minutes or until tender, closely covered. Take out 
the birds, and pile neatly upon buttered toast in a chafing- 
disb. Straia the gravy and return to the fire, adding soma 
small pieces of butter rolled in flour, the juice of a lemon, 
and a little wine. Boil up, and pour over the salmi. 

Oktolahs, Reed-Birds, Kail, and Sora 

may be roasted or broiled. A good way is to roll an oyster 
in melted butter, then in bread-crumbs seasoned with pep- 
per and salt, and put into each bird before roasting. Baste 
with butter and water three times, put the rounds of toast 
underneath, and baste freely with melted butter. They 
will requii'e about twelve minutes to cook, and will be 
found delioious. 

To Keep Game fkom Tainting. 

Draw so soon as they come into your possession ; ring* 
with soda and water, then with pure cold water ; wipe dry, 
and rub them lightly with a mixture of fine salt and black 
pepper. If you must keep them some time, put in the 
cavity of each fowl a piece of charcoal ; hang them in a 
cool, dark place, with a cloth thrown over them. Small 
birds, unless there are too many of them, may be kept in 
a refrigerator after you have drawn, washed, and wiped 
them. 

The charcoal is an admirable prevontive of decompo 
lition. 



SAUCES FOE MEAT AND FISH. 183 



SAUCES rOE MEAT AND FISH. 

Tliese axe no longer the appendages of the rich man'i 
bill of fare only. A general knowledge of made sauces, 
as well as the more expensive ones imported from abroad 
and sold here at high prices, is a part of every intelligent 
Bousekeeper's culinary education. Few are so ignorant as 
to serve a fish sauce with game, or vice versA. From the 
immens«^ number of receipts which I have collected and 
examined, I have selected comparatively few but such aa 
I consider " representative " articles. The ingenious house- 
wife is at liberty, as I have said before, elsewhere, to modify 
and improve upon them. 

First, par excellence, as the most important, and because 
it is the groundwork of many others, 1 place 

"^ 
IMelted or Deawn Butter.] 

^ No. 1, 

2 teaspoonfuls flour. 
1^ ounce butter. 
1 teacupful water or milk. 
A little salt. 

Fut the flour and salt in a bowl, and add a little at a 
time of the water or mUk, working it very smooth as you 
go on. Put into a tin cup or saucepan, and set in a vessel 
of boiling water. As it warms, stir, and when it has boiled 
a minute or more, add the butter by degrees, stirring all 
the time untU it is entirely melted and incorporated with 
the floiir and water. Boil one minute. 

MiY with milk when you wish to use for puddings 
inth water for meats and fish. 



184 COMMON S£]<rSS. 

No. 2. 
1^ teaspoonful of flour, 

2 ounces butter. 

1 teacupful (small) hot water. 

Wet the flour to a thin smooth paste with cold wat«i, 
and stir iato the hot, which should be in the inner vessel 
When it boils, add the butter by degrees, and stir nntj] 
well mixed. BoU one muiute. 

No. 3. 
3 ounces butter. 
Half-piat water (hot). 
A beaten egg. 
1 heaping teaspoonful flour. 

Wet the flour to a smooth paste with a little cold milk, 
and add to the hot water in the inner vessel, stirring until 
thick. Have ready the beaten egg in a cup. Take a tea- 
spoonful of the mixture from the fire, and beat with this 
until light ; then another, and still another. Set aside the 
cup when this is done, and stir the butter into the con- 
tents of the inner saucepan gradually, until thorouglily 
mixed, then add the beaten egg in the same way. There is 
no danger of clotting the egg, if it be treated as I have 
described. 

Egg Sauce. •{« 

3 hard-boiled eggs, 

A good teacupful drawn butter, 
A Kttle salt. 

Chop the yolks only of the eggs very fine, and beat 
into the hot drawn butter, salting to taste. 

This is used fcr boiled fowls and boUed fish. For th« 
former, you can add some minced parsley ; for the latter 



SAUCES FOR MEAT AND FIBH. 185 

chopped pickles, capers, or nasttirtium seed. For boiled 
beef, a small shallot minced fine. 

Or, 
Omit the boiled eggs, and beat up two raw ones very dghi 
and put into the drawn butter instead, as directed in Ko. 3. 
For boiled beef or chicken, you may make the drawn b at- 
tei of hot liquor taken from the pot in which the meat ii 
cooking, having first carefully>kimmed it. 

I Sauce for Boiled or Based Fish./ 

4 ounces butter. 

1 tablespoonful flour. 

2 anchovies. 

1 teaspoonful chopped capers, or nasturtium seed, 
or green pickle. 

1 shallot. 

Pepper and salt to taste. 

1 tablespoonful vinegar. 

1 teacupful hot water. 
Put the water into the inner saucepan, chop the an 
chovies and shallot, and put in with the pepper and salt. 
Boil two minutes, and strain back into the saucepan when 
you have rinsed with hot water. Now add the flour wot 
smooth with cold water, and stir until it thickens ; put in 
the butter by degrees, and, when it is thoroughly melted 
and mixed, the vinegar ; lastly, the capers and a Uttle nut 
meg. 

White Sauce for Fish. »J« 

Make drawn butter by receipt No. 2, but with doubla 
the quantity of flour, and use, instj ad of water, the liqiioi 
in which the llsh was boiled. Add four tablespoonfuls of 
milk, in which ■* shallot and a head of cfelery or a pLndi of 



186 COMMON SENSE. 

celery seed has been boiled, then strained out Boil dim 
minute, and stir in a teaspoontul of chopped parsley. 

\ Oyster Sauce.J»J* 

1 pint oysters. 
Half a lemon. 

2 tablespoonfuls butter. 
1 teaspoonful flour. 

1 teacupful milk or cream. 
Cayenne and nutmeg to taste. 

Stew the oysters in their own liquor five minutes, and 
add the milk. When this boils, strain the liquor and re- 
turn to the saucepan. Thicken with the flour when you 
have wet it with cold water ; stir well in ; put in the but- 
ter, next the cayenne (if you like it), boil one minute ; 
squeeze in the lemon-juice, shake it around well, and pour 
out. 

Or, 

Drain the oysters dry without cooking at all ; make the 
sauce with the liquor and other ingredients just named. 
Chop the raw oysters, and stir in when you do the butter ; 
boil five minutes, and pour into the tureen. Some put in 
the oysters whole, considering that the sauce is handsomer 
than when they are chopped. 

Oyster sauce is used for boiled halibut, cod, and othei 
fish, for boiled turkey, chickens, and white meats generally, 



.^AB Sauce. 

1 crab, boiled and cold, 
4 tablespoonfuls of milk. 
1 teacupful drawn butter. 
Cayenne, mace, and salt to taate. 



8AU0BS rOB MEAT AUB FISH. 187 

Make the drawn butter as usvial, and stir in tlie milk. 
Pick the meat from the crab, chop very fine, season with 
cayenne, mace, and salt to taste ; stir into the drawn but- 
ter. Simmer three minutes, but do not boil. 

Lobster sauce is very nice made as above, with .he ad- 
dition of a teaspoonful of made mustard and the juice of 
half a lemon. This is a good fish sauce. 

Anchovy Sauce. 

6 anchovies. 

A teacupful drawn butter. 

A wine-glass pale sherry. 

Soak the anchovies in cold water two hoi rs ; pull them 
to pieces, and simmer in just enough water to cover them 
for half an hour. Strain the liquor into the drawn buttei 
(No. 3), boil a minute, add the wine ; heat gradually to a 
boil, and stew five minutes longer. 

Serve with boiled fish. 

Sauce for Lobsters. 

6 tablespoonfuls fresh butter. 

Teacupful vinegar. 

rialt and pepper to taste, with a heaping tea 

spoonful white sugar. 
1 teaspoonful made mustard. 
Minced parsley. 

Beat the butter to a cream, adding gradually the vine-' 
gar, sa] ' ^ and pepper. BoU a bunch of parsley five minutes, 
«hv>p eujall; beat into the butter; lastly the sugar anj 
tcuntard. The butter must be light as whipped egg, 



188 common sense. 

Bread Sauce. ! 

1 pint milk. 

1 cup bread-crumbs (yeiy fine). 

1 onion, sliced. 

A pinch of mace. 

Pepper and salt to taste. 

3 tablespoonfuls butter. 

Simmer the sKoed onion in the milk until tender ; strain 
the milk and pour over the bread-crumbs, ■vrhich should b« 
put into a saucepan. Cover and soak half an hour ; beat 
Bmooth with an egg-whip, add the seasoning and butter ; 
stir in well, boil up once, and serve in a tureen. If it ia 
too thick, add boiling water and more butter. 

This sauce is for roast poultry. Some people add soma 
of the gravy from the dripping-pan, fii'st straining it and 
beating it well in with the sauce. 

White Celery Sauce.) 

2 large heads of celery. 

1 teacupful of broth in which the fowl is boiled. 

1 " cream or milk. 

Salt and nutmeg. 

Heaping tablespoonful flotir, and same of butter. 

BoU the celery tender in salted water ; drain, and cut 
iijto bits half an inch long. Thicken the gravy from the 
fowl — a teacupful — ^with the flour ; add the butter, salt, and 
mitmeg, then the milk, Stir and beat until it is smooth; 
put in the celery ; heat almost to boiling, stirring all the 
widle ; serve in a tureen, or, if you prefer, pour it over thi 
boiled meat or fowls. 



6auces roe meat aot) f19h. 189 

Okion Sauce. 

4- white onions. 
1 teacupfiil hot milk. 
3 tablespoonfuls butter. 
Salt and pepper to taste. 

I*eel the onions, boil tender, press the water from 
them, and mince fine. Have ready the hot milk in a sauce- 
pan ; stir in the onions, then the butter, salt, and pepper. 
Boil up once. 

If you want to have it particularly good, make nice 
melted or drawn butter (No. 3) ; beat the mashed onion 
into it; add a teacupful of cream or new milk; season, 
boil up, and serve. 

MaItke d'II6tel Sauce, i^ 

1 teacupful drawn butter. 
1 teaspoonful minced pai'sley. 
1 lemon. 
Cayenne and salt to taste. 

Draw the butter (No. 2) ; boil the parsley three min- 
otes ; take it out and lay in cold water five minutes, to 
cool ; chop and stir into the butter ; squeeze in the lemon- 
juice, the pepper and salt; beat hard with an egg-whip, 
return to the fire, and boil up once. 

This is a " stock " sauce, being suitable for so manj 
dishes, roast or boiled. 

Mint Sauce for Roast Lamb. 

2 tablespoonfuls green mint, chopped fine. 
1 tablespoonful powdered sugar. 
Half a teacupful cider vinegar. 



190 COMMON SENSE. 

Chop the jniat, put the sugar and vinegai in a sauos 
boat, and stir in the mint. Let it stand in a cool plact 
Bfteen minutes before sending to table. 

MUSHEOOM SaDCB. 

1 teacupful young mushrooms. 

4 tablespoonfuls butter. 

1 teacupful cream or mUk. 

1 teaspoonful flour. 

Nutmeg, mace, and salt to taste. 

Stew the mushrooms in barely enough water to covei 
them until tender. Drain, but do not press them, and add 
the cream, butter, and seasoning. Stew over a bright fire 
stirring all the while until it begins to thicken. Add th« 
flour wet in cold milk, boil up and serve in a boat, or pouJ 
over boiled chickens, rabbits, etc. 

( Caulifloweb Sauce) 

1 small cauliflower. 

3 tablespoonfuls butter, cut in bits, and rolled in 

flour. 
1 onion. 

1 small head of celery. 
Mace, pepper, and salt. 
1 teacupful water. 
1 teacupful milk or cream. 

BoU the cauliflower in two waters, changing when about 
half done, and throwing away the first, reserve a teacupful 
of the last. Take out the cauliflower, drain and mince. 
Coo]^ in another saucepan the onion and celery, mincing 
them when tender. Heat the reserved cupful of watei 
again in a saucepan, add the milk ; when warm put in th« 



BAUCiS FOR MEAT AND FISH. 191 

eauliflower and onion, the butter and seasoning — coating 
the butter thickly with flour ; boil UDtU it thickens. 

This is a delicious sauce for boiled corned beef and 
lUiitton. 

AsPAEAGUs Sauce. 

A dozen heads of asparagus. 
2 teacupfuls drawn butter. 
2 eggs. 

The juice of half a lemon. 
Salt and white pepper. 
.BoD. the tender heads in a very little salted water. 
Drain and chop them. Have ready a pint of drawn but- 
ter, with two raw eggs beaten into it ; add the asparagus, 
and season, squeezing in the lemon-juice last. The buttei 
must be hot, but do not cook after putting in the asparagus 
heads. This accompanies boiled fowls; stewed fiUet of veal, 
or boUed mutton. 

Apple Sauce. 
Pare, core, and slice some ripe tart apples, stew in wi<,fce» 
enough to cover them until they break to pieces. Beat up 
to a smooth pulp, stir in a good lump of butter, and sugar 
to taste. 

Apple sauce is the invariable accompaniment of ro<ist 
pork — or fresh pork cooked in any way. K you wish, you 
can add a Uttle nutmeg. 

Peach Sauce. 
Soak a quart of dried peaches in water four houis. 
Wash them rubbing them against one another by stirring 
around with a wooden spoon. Drain, and put into a sauce- 
pan with just enough water to cover them. Stew until 
Siey break to pieces. Euh to a soft smooth pulp, sweeten 
io taste with white sugar. Send to iable cold, withi roast 
game or otltor meats. • 



192 COMMON SENBIC 



Okanbeery Sauce. 

Wash and pick a quart of ripe cranberries, and put kit* 
a saucepan with a teacupful of water. Stew slowly, stir 
ring often until they are thick as marmalade. They require 
at least an hour and a half to cook. When you take them 
from the fire, sweeten abundantly with white sugar. If 
sweetened while cooking, the color will be bad. Put them 
into a motdd and set aside to get cold. 

Or, 4- 

Ajid this is a nicer plan — strain the pulp through a cul- 
lender or .i?ieve, or coarse mosquito-net, into a mould wet 
with cold water. When firm, turn into a glass dish or saU 
ver. Be sure that it is sweet enough. 

Eat ■with roast turkey, game, and roast ducks. 

To Brown Flour. 

Spread upon a tin plate, set upon the stove, or in a vm-y 
aot oven, and stir continually after it begins to color, until 
It is brown all through. 

Keep it always on hand. Make it at odd minutes, and 
put away iii a glass jar, covered closely. Shake up every 
few days to keep it light and prevent lumping. 

To Brown Butter. 

Put a, lump of butter into a hot frying-pan, and toss it 
uround over a clear fire until it browns. Dredge browned 
flour over it, and stir to a smooth batter until it begins to 
boil. Use it for coloring gravies, such as brown fricassees, 
etc. ; or make into sauce for baked fish and fish-steaks, by 
beating, in celery or onion vinegar, a very little brown sugu 
and some q^yenne. 



CATSUPS AOT) FLA YOKED VDSBGAES. 193 

CATSUPS AND FLAVORED VINEGARS. 

Made Mustard. ►{« 

4 tablespoonfuls best Englisli mustard. 

2 toaspoonfuls salt. 

2 " white sugar. 

1 " white pepper. 

2 " salad oil. 

Vinegar to mix to a smooth paste — celery or Tarragon 

vinegar if you have it. 
1 small garlic, minced very small. 

Put the mustard in a bowl and wet with the oil, rub- 
bing it in with a silver or wooden spoon until it is absorbed. 
Wet with vinegar to a stiff paste ; add salt, pepper, sugar, 
and garKc, and work all together thoroughly, wetting little 
by little with the vinegar until you can beat it as you do 
cake-batter. Beat five minutes very hard ; put into wide- 
mouthed bottles — empty French mustard bottles, if you 
have them — pour a little oil on top, cork tightly, and set 
away in a cool place. It will be mellow enough for use in 
a couple of days. 

Having used tliis mustard for years in my own family, 
I can safely advise my friends to undertake the trifling labor 
of preparing it in consideration of the satisfaction to be de 
rived from the condiment. I mix in a Wedgewood mortar, 
with pestle of the same ; but a bowl is nearly as good It 
wiU keep for weeks. 

lIonSE-KADISH. 

Scrape or grind, cover with vinegar, and keep in wide- 
Diouibed bottlea. To eat with roast beef and cold moat«. 
9 



194 common sense. 

Walkut Catsup. 

Choose young ■walnuts! tender enough to be pierced with 
a pin or needle. Prick them in several places, and lay in a 
jar with a handful of salt to every twenty-five, and water 
enough to cover them Break them with a billet of wood 
or wooden beetle, and let them lie in the pickle a fortnight, 
Btirring twice a day. Drain off the liquor into a saucepan, 
und cover the shells with boiling vinegar to extract what 
juice remains in them. Crush to a pulp and strain through 
a cullender into the saucepan. Allow for eveiy quart an 
ounce of black pepper and one of gingei-, half an ounce of 
cloves and half an ounce of nutmeg, beaten fine. Put in a 
pinch of cayenne, a shallot minced fine for every two quarts, 
and a thimbleful of celery-seed tied in a bag for the same 
quantity. BoU all together for an hour, if there be a gal- 
lon of the mixture. Bottle when cold, putting an equal 
quantity of the spice in each fiask. Butternuts make de- 
lightful catsup. 

MusHKooM Catsup. 

2 quarts of mushrooms, 
J lb, of salt. 

Lay in an earthenware pan, in alternate layers of mush- 
rooms and salt; let them lie six hours, then break into bits. 
Set in a cool place three days, stirring thoroughly every 
morning. Measure the juice when you have strained it, 
and to every quart allow half an ounce of allspice, the same 
quantity of ginger, half a teaspoonful of powdered maco, a 
teaspoonful of cayenne. Put into a stone jar, cover closely, 
set in a saucepan of boiling water over the fire, arid boil 
five hoTTS hard. Take it off, empty into a porcelain kefr 
tie, and boil slowly half an hour longer. Let it stand all 
night in a cool jjlace, until settled and clear. Pour off 



OATBUPB AKD FLAVORED VINEGAEB. 195 

eaieflilly from the sediment, and bottle, filling the flasks tc 
tlie mouth. Dip the corks in melted rosin, and tie up with 
bladders. 

The bottles should be very small, as it soon spoils when 
ejiposed to the air. 

Imitation "Worcestekshibe Sa0oe. 

3 teaspoonfiils cayenne pepper. 

2 tablespoonfuls walnut or tomato catsup (strained 
through muslin). 

3 shallots minced fine. 

3 anchovies chopped into bits. 

1 quart of vinegar. 

Half-teaspoonful powdered cloves. 
Mix and rub through a sieve. Put in a stone jar, sei 
in a pot of boiling water, and heat until the liquid is so hot 
you cannot bear your finger in it. Strain, and let it stand 
in the jar, closely covered, two days, then bottle for use. 

Otster Catsup. 

1 quart oysters. 

1 tablespoonful salt. 

1 teaspoonful cayenne pepper, and same of mace. 

1 teacupful cider vinegar. 

1 " sherry. 

Chop the oysters and boil in their own liqxior with a 
teacupful vinegar, skimming the scum as it rises. Boil 
three minutes, strain through a hair-cloth ; return the 
liquor to the fire, add the wine, pepper, salt, and mace. 
Boil fifteer minutes, and, when cold, bottle for use, sealing 
the corks. 



196 common 8ensx. 

Tomato Catsup. •{• 

1 peck ripe tomatoes. 
1 oiuice salt. 
1 " mace. 

1 tablespoonful black pepper. 
1 teaspoonful cayenne. 
1 tablespoonful cloves (powdered). 
7 " ground mustard. 

1 " celery seed (tied in a thin muslin 

bag). 

Cut a slit in the tomatoes, put into a bell-metal or pcr^ 
.-ttlain kettle, and boil until the juice is all extracted and 
the pulp dissolved. Strain and press through a cullender, 
then through a hair sieve. Return to the fire, add the sea- 
Boning, and boU at least five hours, stirring constantly for 
the last hour, and frequently throughout the time it is on 
ihe fire. Let it stand twelve hours in a stone jar on the 
cellar floor. When cold, add a pint of strong vinegar. 
Take out the bag of celery seed, and bottle, sealing the 
ciorks. Keep in a dark, cool place. 

Tomato and walnut are the most useful catsups we have 
for general purposes, and either is in itself a fine aaiice for 
roast meat, cold fowl, game, etc. 

Lemc^. Catsup. 

12 large, fresh lem&ns. 
4 tablespoonfuls -vf^J^te mustard-seed. 
1 " tumeric. 

1 " white pepper. 

1 teaspoonful cloves. 
1 " mace. 

1 saltspoonful cayenne. 



CATSUPS AMD FLAVORED VtNEGAES. 19 1 

2 tablespooufiils white sugar. 

2 " grated horse-radish. 

1 shallot, minced fine. 
Juice of the lemons. 

2 tablespoonfuls table-salt. 

Grate the rind of the lemons; pound or gi'iiid the 
qices, and put all together, including the horse-radish, 
Strew the salt over all, add the lemon-juice, ^and let it 
fttand three hours in a cool place. Boil in a porcelain ket- 
tle half an hour. Pour into a covered vessel — china oi 
stone — and let it stand a fortnight, stirring well every day. 
Then strain, bottle, and seal. 

It is a fine seasoning for fish sauces, fish soups, an<^ 
game ragotlts. 

" EVEB-KEADY " CaTSUI-. ^ 

2 quarts cider vinegar. 

12 ancho^des, washed, soaked, and pulled to pieces. 
12 small onions, peeled and minced 

1 tablespoonful mace. 



3 


(C 


fine salt. 


3 


u 


white sugar. 


1 


(( 


cloves. 


3 


« 


whole black pepper. 


2 


« 


ground ^nger. 


1 


« 


cayenne. 



1 quart mushrooms, miitced, or 
1 " ripe tomatoes, sliced. 

Put into a preserving kettle and boil slowly four hours, 
or until the mixture is reduced to one-half the original quan 
tity. Strain through a flannel bag. Do not bottle uuti"i 
next day. Fill the flasks to t^ top, and dip the corks Lb 
beeswax and rosin. 



1U8 COMMON SENSE 

TLis catsup will keep for years. Mixed with drawn 
butter, it is used as a sauce for boiled fish, but is a fin* 
flavoring essence of gravies of almost any kind, 

A Good Store Sauce. 

2 tablespoonfuls horse-radish (grated). 

1 " allspice. 
A grated nutmeg. 

3 large pickled onions (minced fine). 

2 dozen whole black peppers. 
A pinch of cayenne. 

1 tablespoonful salt. 

1 " white sugar. 

1 quart vinegar from walnut or butternut pickle. 

Mis aU the spires well together ; crush in a stone jai 
with a potato-beetle or billet of wood ; pour over the vine- 
gar, and let it stand two weeks. Put on in a porcelain or 
clean bell-metal kettle and heat to boiling ; strain and set 
aside until next day to cool and settle. Bottle and cork 
very tightly. It is an excellent seasoning for any kiad of 
gravy, sauce, or stew. 

Mock Capeks. •{« 

Gather green nasturtium seed when they are fuU-grown, 
but not yellow ; dry for a day in the sun ; put into small 
jars or wide-mouthed bottles, cover with boiling vinegar, 
gUghtly spiced, and when cool, cork closely. In six weeks 
they will be fit for use. They give an agreeable taste to 
drawn butter for fish, or boiled beef and muttcm 

Celeky Vinegab. 

A bunch of fresh celery, or 

A quarter of a pound of celery seed. 



OATStJTS AiJD FLAVOIiEl) VINKGAKS. 199 

1 quart of best vinegar. 

1 teaspoonful salt. 

1 tablespoonful white sugar. 

Cut up the celery into small bits, or pour the seed into 
a jar ; scald the salt and vinegar, and pour over the celery 
stalks or seed ; let it cool, and put away in one large jai 
tightly corked. In a fortaiight strain and bottle in small 
flasks, corking tightly. 

Onion Yineoab. 

6 large onions. 

1 tablespoonful salt. 

1 " " white sugar. 

1 quart best vinegar. 

Mince the onions, strew on the salt, and let them stand 
five or six hours. Scald the vinegar in which the sugar 
has been dissolved, pour over the onions ; put in a jar, tie 
down the cover, and steep a fortnight. Strain and bottle. 

Elderberry Catsup. 

1 quart of elderberries. 

1 *' of vinegar. 

6 anchovies, soaked and pulled to pieces. 
Half a teaspoonful mace. 
A pinch of ginger. 

2 tablespoonfuls white sugar. 
1 teaspoonful salt. 

1 tablespoonful whole peppers. 

Scald the vinegar and pour over the berries, whiou 
must be picked from the stalks and put into a large stone 
jar. Cover with a pane of glass, and set in the hot sun 
two days. Strain off the liquor, and boil up with thf 



200 COMMON 6EN8E. 

other ingredients, stirring often, one hour, keeping coverea 
iinless while stirring. Let it cool ; strain and bottle. 

This is used for flavoring brown gravies, soups, aiid 
ragoiita, and, stirred into browned butter, makes a good 
piquant sau,ce for broiled or biiked fish. 

PePPEB VllTEGAK. 

6 pods red peppers broken up. 
3 dozen black pepper-corns. 
2 tablespoonfuls white sugar. 
1 quart; of best vinegar. 

Scald the vinegar ia which the sugar has been di» 
solved; pour over the pepper, put into a jar, and steep a 
fortnight. Straia and bottle. 

This is eaten with boiled fish and raw oysters, and is 
useful ia the preparation of salads. 

HOESE-EAPISH VlNEGAB. 

6 tablespoonfuls scraped or grated horse-radish. 
1 tablespoonful white sugar. 
1 quart vinegar. 

Scald the vinegar ; pour boiling hot over the horso- 
tadish. Steep a week, straia and bottle^ 

SALADS. 

" The dressing of the salad should be saturated with 
oil, and seasoned with pepper and salt before the vinegar 
is added. It restdts from this process that there nevei can 
be too much vinegar ; for, from the specific gravity of the 
vinegar compared with oil, what is more than useful will 
fell to the bottom of the bowl. The salt should not be 
dissolved in the vin^ar, but in the oil, by which means it 



SALADS. 201 

is moie equally distributed throughout the salad. '' — VlMp 
tod, a French chemist. 

Tlie Spanish proverb says, that "to make a perfed 
salad, there should be a miser for oil, a spendthrift foi 
vinegar, a wise man for salt, and a madcap to stir the in 
gredifints up and mix them well together." 

Sydney Smith's Receipt for Salad Drkssing. 

Two boiled potatoes, strained through a kitchen 

sieve. 
Softness and smoothness to the salad give ; 
Of mordant mustard take a single spoon — 
Distrust the condiment that bites too soon f 
Yet deem it not, thou man of taste, a fault. 
To add a double quantity of salt. 
Foxur times the spoon with oil of Lucca crown, 
And twice with vinegar procured from town ; 
True taste requires it, and your poet begs 
The pounded yellow of two well-boiled eggs. 
Let onions' atoms lurk within the bowl. 
And, scarce suspected, animate the whole ; 
And lastly, in the flavored compound toss 
A magic spoonful of anchovy sauce. 
Oh, great and glorious ! oh, herbaceous meat ! 
'Twould tempt the dying anchorite to eat. 
Back to the world he'd turn his weary soul, 
And plunge his fingers in the salad bowl. 

At least twenty-five years ago I pasted the above dog- 
gerel in my scrap-book, and committed it to memory. The 
Qrst salad I was ever trusted to compoimd was dressed in 
strict obedience to the directions of the witty divine, and 
to this day these seem to me pertinent and worthy of note, 
The ancliovy sauce can be oadtted if you like, and a spoon 
9* 



202 COMMON SESSB. 

ful of Harvey's or "Worcestershire substituted. This ii 
best suited for chicken or turkey salad. 

Lobster Salad. »J* 

Pick out every bit of the meat from the body and claw» 
irf a cold boiled lobster. Lay aside the coral for the dress 
Lag, and mince the rest. For the dressing you mil need — 

4 eggs, boiled hard. 

2 tablespoonfuls salad oil. 

1 teaspoonfal made mustard. 

1 « salt. 

2 " white sugar. 

^ " cayemie pepper. Yvnegwr at discretion, 

1 " of Harvey's, Worcestershire, or anchovj- 

sauce. 

Kub the yolks to a smooth paste in a mortar or bowl, 
Vrith a Wedgewood pestle, a silver or wooden spoon, until 
fi&rfecWy free from lumps. Add gradually, rubbing all the 
vrhile, the other ingredients, the coral last. This should 
ixave been worked well upon a plate with a silver knife or 
wooden spatula. Proceed slowly and carefully in the opera- 
tion of amalgamating the various ingredients, moistening 
with vinegar as they stilBFen. Licrease the quantity of this 
aB the mixture grows smooth, until it is thin enough to 
pour over the minced lobster. You will need a teacupful 
at least. Then stir long and well, that the meat may be 
thorouglily impregnated with the dressing. Some mix 
chopped lettuce with thp salad ; but unless it is to be eaten 
within a few minutes, the vinegar will wither the tender 
leaves. The better plan is to heap a glass dish -with the 
inner leaves of several lettuce-heads, laying poiinded ica 
unong them, and pass with the lobster, that the guests maj 
ftdd tho green salad to their taf>te. 



SALADS. 203 

When lettuce is out of season, the follo-wxiig dressing, 
the receipt for which -was given me by a French gourmand, 
maj be used. 

Prepare the egg and coral as above, with the condiments 
there mentioned, but mix with the lobster-meat four table- 
spoonfuls of fine white cabbage, chopped small, with two 
small onions, also minced into almost indivisible bits, a 
teaapoonful of anchovy or other sauce, and a tablespoonful 
of colery vinegar. 

All lobster salad should be eaten as soon as possible 
aftor the dressing is added, else it becomes unwholesome. 
If you use canned lobster, open and turn out the contents 
oi the can into a china dish several hours befote you mix 
th'j dressing, that the close, airless smeU may pass away. 

Gp.mish the edges of the dish with cool white leaves of 
rxirled lettuce, or with a chain of rings made of the whites 
of the boiled eggs. 

Chicken Salad. •$• 
The white meat of a cold boiled or roasted chicken 

(or turkey). 
Three-quarters the same bulk of chopped celery. 

2 hard-boiled eggs, 

1 raw egg, well beaten. 
1 teaspoonful of salt. 
1 " pepper. 

1 " made mustard. 

3 " salad oiL 

2 " white sugar. 
•J teacupful of vinegar. 

Mince the meat well, removing every scrap of fat, gri«H 
tie, and skin ; cut the celery into bits half an inch long, ot 
lest, mix. them, and set aside in a cold place while you pre- 
pare the dresaing. 



204 COMMON SENSE. 

Rub the yolks of the eggs to a fine powder, add the salt, 
pepper, and sugar, then the oil, grinding hard, and putting in 
but a few drops at a time. The mustard comes next, and let 
all Btaad together while you whip the raw egg to a froth 
Beat this into the dressing, and pour in the vinegar spoon 
fill by spoonful, whipping the dressing well as you do it 
Sprinkle a little dry salt over the meat and celery ; toss it 
up lightly with a silver fork ; pour the dressing over it, 
tossing and mixing until the bottom of the mass is as well 
saturated as the top ; turn into the salad-bowl, and garnish 
with white of eggs (boiled) cut into rings or flowers, and 
sprigs of bleached celery-tops. 

If you cannot get celery, substitute crisp white cabbage, 
and use celery vinegar in tie dressing. You can also, in 
this case, chop some green pickles, gherkins, mangoes, or 
cucumbers, and stir in. 

Turkey makes even better salad than chicken. 

You can make soup of the liquor in which the fowl ia 
cooked, since it need not be boiled in a cloth. 

VLettuce Salad) "J* 

Two or three heads white lettuce, 

2 hard-boiled eggs. 

2 teaspoonfuls salad oil. 

i " salt. 

1 " white sugar. 

^ " made mustard. 

1 " pepper. 

4 tablespoonfuls vinegar. 
Rub the yolks to a powder, add sugar, pepper, salt, 
mustard, and oil. Let it stand five minutes, and beat in the 
vinegar. Cut the lettuce up with a knife and fork, — a 
chopper would bruise it, — put into a bowl, add the dressing; 
trad mis by tossing with a silver fork. 



BAI^ASB. 203 

Or, 

Yen can dross on the table with oil and vinegar only- 
pulling the heart of the lettuce out with your fingers, and 
seasoning to taste. 

SumrBB SaiiAS. 

3 heads of lettuce. 

2 teaspoonfuls green mustard leaves. 
A handful of water-cresses. 

Four or five very tender radishes. 

1 cucumber. 

3 hard-boiled eggs. 

2 teaspoonfuls white sugar. 
1 t6aspoonful salt. 

1 •• pepper. 

1 " made mustard. 

1 teacupful vinegar. 

2 tablespoonfiils salad oil. 

Mix the dressing as for lettuce salad. Cut up the hea:rtfl 
of the lettuce, the radishes and cucumber, into very small 
pieces ; chop the mustard and cress. Pour over these the 
dressing, tossing very lightly, not to bruise the young leaves j 
heap in a salad-bowl upon a lump of ice, and garnish with 
fennel-heads and nasturtium-blossoms. 

This is a delightful accompaniment to boiled or baked 
fish. 

Water-Ckesses. 

"Wash and pick over the cresses carefully, pluck from 
the stems, and pUe in the salad bowl, with a dressing of 
dnegar, pepper, salt, and sugar, well stirred in. 



806 OOMMOJ»( SENSE. 

Cabbage Salad, or CoiiD Slaw. •{• 

1 head of fine white cabbage, minced fina 
3 hard-boiled eggs. 

2 tablespoonfuls salad oil. 
2 teaspoonfuls white sugar. 
1 teaspooufiil salt, 

1 " pepper. 

1 " made mustard. 

1 teacupful vinegar. 

Mix as for lettuce and pour upon the chopped cabbage 

Shred the head of cabbage fine, and dress with — 
1 cup vinegar. 
1 tablespoonful butter. 

1 sugar. 

2 tablespoonfuls sour cream. 

A piach of pepper, and the same of salt. 

Put the vinegar, with all the ingredients for the dr «s- 
ing, except the cream, in a saucepan, and let them come 
to a boU. Pour while scalding over the cabbage, and 
Bet away ^mtil perfectly cold. Add the cream just before 
serving, stirring in with a silver fork. 

This is a vory nice preparation of cabbage, and far mor< 
wliolesorae than the uncooked. Try it I 

Tomato Salad. •{« 

12 medium-sized tomatoes, peeled and sliced. 

4 hard-boiled eggs. 

1 raw egg, well beaten. 

1 teaspoonful salt. 

I spoonful cayenne pepper. 



BALAD8. 201 

1 teaspoonful white sugar. 

1 tablespoonful salad oil, 

2 teaspoonfuls made mustard. 
1 teacupful vinegar. 

Kul> the yolks to a smooth paste, adding by degrees tha 
■al*, pepper, sugar, mustard, and oil. Beat the raw egg to 
a froth and stir in, — lastly the vinegar. Peel the tomatoes, 
slice them a quarter of an inch thick, and set the dish on 
ice, while you are making ready the dressing. Stir a great 
lump of ice rapidly in this — ^the dressing — until it is cold ; 
take it ctat, cover the tomatoes with the zoixture, and set 
back on the ice until you send to table. 

This salad is delicious, especially when ice-oold. 

Celery Salad. •{« 

1 boiled egg. 

1 raw egg. 

1 tablespoonful salad oil. 

1 teaspoonful white sugar. 

1 saltspoonful salt. 

1 " pepper. 

4 tablespoonfiils vinegar. 

1 teaspoonful made mustard. 

Prepare the dressing as for tomato salad ; cut the celery 
into bits half an inch long, and season. Eat at once, liefon 
the vinegar injures the crispness of the vegetable. 

Salmon Salad. 4* 

Ij^ lb. cold boiled or baked salmon. 

2 heads white lettuce (or celery). 

3 hard-boiled eggs. 

3 tablespoonfuls salad oiL 



208 COMMON SENSE. 

1 tea8}ioonful salt, and same of cayenne. 

1 " white sugar. 

1 " Worcestershire or anchovy sauoe. 

1 " made mustard. 

1 teacupful vinegar. 

Mince three-quarters of the salmon, laying aside four oi 
five pieces half an inch wide and four or five long; cut 
smoothly and of uniform size. Prepare the dressing in the 
usual way, and pour over the minced fish. Shred the let- 
tuce, handling as little as possible, and heap in a separate 
bowl, with poimded ice. This must accompany the salmon, 
that the guests may help themselves to their liking. Or 
you may miY the lettuce with the fish, if it is to be eaten 
immediately. Celery, of course, is always stirred into the 
salad, when it is used. The reserved pieces of salmon 
should be laid in the dressing for five minutes before 
the latt-er is added to the minced fish, tlien dipped in 
vinegar. When you have transferred your salad (or ma- 
yonnaise) to the dish in which it is to be served, round it 
into a mound, and lay the strips upon it in such a manner 
as to divide it into triangular sections, the bars all meeting 
at the top and diverging at the base. Between these havo 
subdivisions of chain-work made of the whites »f the toiled 
eggs, each circle overlapping that next to it. 

You can dress halibut in the same way. 

CflBESE, Salad, or Mock Ceab. 

j lb. pickled shrimps. 

J lb. good old cheese. 

1 tablespoonful salad oil. 

1 teaspoonfol cayenne pepper. 

1 « salt. 

1 " white sugar. 



SAIiASB. 209 

1 teaspoonful made mustard. 

4 tablespoonfuls celery or onion vinegar. 

Mince the shrimps and grate the cheese. Work into 
the latter, a little at a time, the various condiments enu- 
merated above, the vinegar last. Let all stand together ten 
minutes before adding the shrimps. When this is done, 
stir ■well for a minute and a half and serve in a glass dish, 
garziished vrith lemon, or (if you can get one) in a clean 
orab-aheU. 

Or, 4. 

^ lb. old cheese, grated. 

1 hard-boUed egg. 

1 teaspoonful cayenne. 

1 " salt. 

1 " white sugar. 

1 " made mustard. 

1 tablespoonful onion vinegar. 

1 ** salad oil. 

Rub the yolk of the egg to a paste with the oil, adding 
in order the salt, pepper, sugar, and mustard, lastly the 
cheese. Work all well together before putting in the 
vinegar. Serve in a crab-shell. 

These mixtures bear a marvellous resemblance in taste 
to devilled crab, and make a good impromptu relish at tea 
or limcheon. Eat with crackers and butter. This is still 
better if you add a cupful of cold minced chicken. 

Use none but the best and freshest olive salad oil {not 
Bweet oil, falsely so called) in compounding your salad- 
dressing. If you cannot obtain tais, melted butter is thi 
best subatituto I know of. 



210 COMMON 8XNBB. 

VEGETABLES. 
RuiiBS Appiicable to the Cooking of all YEOETABLsa 

1. Have them as fresh as possible. Stale and 'withered 
ones are unwholesome and unpalatable. Summer vegeta- 
(files should be cooked on the same day they are gathered, if 
possible. 

2. Pick over and -wash well, cutting out aU decayed or 
miripe parts. 

3. Lay them, when peeled, in cold water for some time 
beforo cooking. 

4. If you boil them, put a little salt in the water. 

5. Cook them steadily after you put them on. 

6. Be sure they are thoroughly done. Hare Tegetablei 
are neither good nor fashionable, 

7. Drain wdl, 

8. Serve hot I 

POTATOES. 
Boiled Potatoes (v>ith the sMns on). 

Boil in cold water with a pinch of salt. Have them ol 
uniform size, and cook steadily until a fork will pierce easily 
to the heart of the largest. Then pour off the water, every 
drop ; sprinkle with salt and set back on the range, a Uttle 
to one side, with the lid of the pot off. Let them dry three 
or four Tninutes; peel very quickly and serve in an un- 
covered dish. 

Without the Skins. 

Pare very thin. The glory of a potato is its mealiness, 
jmd much of the starch, or meal, lies next the skin — conse- 
quently is lost by slovenly paring, which likewise defaces 
the shape. Lay in cold water for half an hour, have ready 
■ pot of boiling water slightly salted, drop in the potatoeiy 



POTATOES. 211 

and keep at a rapid boil until tender. Dr.ain off the water 
sprinkle with fine salt, and dry as just directed. 

And here comes a conflict of authorities. Says my kind 
friend and neighbor, Mrs. A., an excellent housewife — " I 
boU my potatoes in cold water always, — with a pinch ol 
salt, of course, and when half done, throw away the boiling 
water and fill up with cold, then boil again. This makes 
the potatoes mealy." Mrs. B., whose reputation as a house- 
keeper and cook is in every kitchen, interposes : — " I have 
tried both ways. My experience is that potatoes melt into 
a sort of starchy gruel when boiled in cold water. The 
philosophy of the operation is to heat quickly and thor- 
.»aghly, and, the instant they are done, to dry out every 
.Irop o' water. And — " with a touch of pardonable pride— 
" we generally have delightful potatoes." This is true, but 
remembering that Mrs. A.'s are Kke snow hillocks, ready to 
crumble at a breath, I come home and try the cold water 
'^lan. My cook, unlike most of her tribe, is too sensible to 
aoppose that she knows everything, and willingly abets me. 
The result of our experiments stands somewhat thus— Gar- 
net, White Mountain, and Early Rose potatoes are apt to 
dissolve in cold water, giving off their starch too readily, 
perhaps. We boil them in hot water. Peach Blows, Prince 
Alberts, and other late varieties are best cooked as Mrs. A. 
recommends — always pouring off the water the instant 
they are done and letting the potatoes dry for a few minutes. 
My housewifely friends can decide for themselves which 
method is preferable. 

Mashed Potatoes. 4« 

Old potatoes are best mashed. Pare, and let them lie) 
in cold water from half to three-quarters of an hour. A 
longer time will not hurt them. BoU in hot or cold water 
according to the toughness of texture. A coarse, ^axy 



212 COMMON SENSE. 

potato is best cooked in cold Trater. In either case, put in 
a pinch of salt. Drain thoroughly when done, sprinkle 
s^ith salt, and mash them in the pot ■with a potato-beetle, 
working in a tablespoonful of butter and enough milk to 
make the paste about the consistency of soft dough. Leave 
no lumps in it, and when smooth, dish. Form into a mounj 
with a wooden spoon, and leave dots of pepper here and 
there on the surface, as large as a half-dime. 

Or, 

Brown by setting in the oven until a crust is formed. 
Glaze this with butter, and serve. 

To Boil New Potatoes. 

If very young, rub the skin off with a rough towel. If 
almost ripe, scrape with a blunt knife. Lay in cold water 
an hour, cover with cold water slightly salted, boil half an 
hour. Drain, salt, and dry fcr two or three minutes, bend 
to table plain. 

Or, 

You may crack each by pressing lightly upon it with 
the back of a wooden spoon, lay them in a deep dish, and 
pour over them a cupful of cream or new milk, heated to a 
boil, in which a great spoonful of butter has been dissolved. 

To Stew Old Potatoes. 4* 

This is a good way to cook potatoes which are so rank 
and tough as hardly to be eatable in any other form. 

Pare and quarter, if large. Soak in cold water on« 
hour. Put into a pot with enough cold salted water to 
cover them. When almost done, turn off the water, add a 
like quantity of milk, and bring to a boil. Before taking 
up, stir in a heaping tablespoonful of butter, a little saUj « 



POTATOES. 313 

b(.ndfiil of chopped parsley, and thicken slightly with floiu 
previously wet in cold milk. Boil one minute, and pc or all 
int« a deep dish. 

Stewed Potatoes for Bkeaktast. ^ 

Pare, quarter, and soak in cold water half an hour. 
Stew in enough cold salted water to cover them. Befora 
taking up, and when they are breaking to pieces, drain off 
half the water, and pour in a cupful of milk. Boil three 
minutes, stirring well ; put in a lump of butter the size of 
an egg, a little salt and a pinch of pepper ; thicken slightly 
with flour, boU up well and turn into a covered dish. 

This is an excellent family dish. Children are usually 
fond of it, and it is very wholesome. 

Baked Potatoes. 

Wash and wipe some large ripe potatoes, and bake in a 
quick oven until tender, say from three-quarters of an hour 
to an houi", if of a good size. Serve in a napkin with the 
Bkins on. Tear or cut a hole in the top when you eat them, 
put in a bit of butter with salt and pepper. They are good 
for boys' cold fingers at supper-time on winter nights 

Potato Puff. •{« 

Take two cupfuls of cold mashed potato, and stir into 
it two tablespoonfuls of melted butter, beating to a white 
cream before adding attything else. Tlien put with this 
two eggs whipped very light and a teacupful of cream or 
milk, salting to taste. Beat aU well, pom- into a deep dish, 
and bake in a quick oven until it is nicely browned. If 
pro[ieily mixed, it will come out of the oven light, piifly 
end delectable. 



314 COMMON SBNSS. 

PorATOES Wakmed Over — alias au MaUre (Tlidtd. 

Slice cold boiled potatoes a quarter of an. incih thicli 
and put into a saucepan ■with four or five tablespoonfuls oi 
milk, tv^o or three of butter, pepper, salt, and some chopped 
{)arsley Heat quickly, stirring all the time untU ready to 
boil, when stir in the juice of half a lemon. This last in- 
gredient entitles the dish to the foreign title. Pour into & 
deep dish, and serve very hot. 



r: 



Potato Ckoquettes.) •{« 

Season cold mashed potato with pepper, salt, and nut- 
meg. Beat to a cream, with a tablespoonful of melted but- 
ter to every cupful of potato. Bind with two or three 
beaten eggs, and add some minced parsley. Roll into oval 
balls, dip in beaten egg, then in bread-crumbs, and fry in 
hot lard or drippings. 

Pile in a pyramid upon a flat dish, and serve. 

Fried Potatoes. •{« 

. Pare, wash, and slice some law potatoes as thin as wa- 
fers. This can be done with a sLarp knife, although thero 
is a little instrument for the piupose, to be had 'at the 
house-furnishing stores, which flutes prettily as well aa 
slices evenly. Lay in ice-water for hsUi an hour, wipe dry 
in two cloths, spreading them upon one, and pressing the 
other upon them. Have ready in the fryi:ig'pan some boil- 
ing lard or nice dripping, fry a light brown, sprinkle with 
salt, and serve in a. napkin laid in a deep dish !ii,nd folded 
over the potatfjes. To dry them of the fat, take from the 
frying-pan as soon as they are brown, with a, perforated 
skimmer, put into a cullender and shake for an inst^ant. 
They should be crisp and free from grease. 



FOTA'IOBS. 21fi 

Or, 
Chop oold boiled potatoes into bits, season with, peppei 
and salt, and fry ligttly in dripr,ing or butter, turning tliein 
soiiBtantly until nicely brownod. 

Potato Ribbon. 

Pare and lay in ice-water for an hour. Choose ths 
largest and soundest potatoes you can get for this dish. At 
the end of the hour, pare, ■with a small knife, round and 
round in one continuous curling strip. There is also an in- 
strument for this purpose, which costs but a trifle, and wiU 
do the work deftly and expeditiously. Handle with care, 
f^y — a few at a time, for fear of entanglement — in lard or 
clarified drippings, drain, and arrange neatly upon a hot 
flat dish. 

Potatoes A la CrJsie. >^ 

Put into a saucepan three tablespoonfuls of butter, a 
small handful of parsley chopped small, salt and pepper to 
taste. Stir up well until hot, add a small teacupful of cream 
or rich milk, thicken with two teaspoonfuls of flour, and 
stir until it boUs. Chop some cold boiled potatoes, put intr 
ihe mixture, and boil up once before serving. 

Stuffed Potatoes. »J» 

Take large, fair potatoes, bake until soft, and cut a 
round piece off the top of each. Scrape out the inside 
carefully, so as not to break the skin, and set aside the 
empty cases with the covers. Mash the inside very 
smoothly, working into it while hot some butter and cream 
— about half a teaspoonful of each for every potato. Sfia- 
8Cn with salt and pepper, with a good pinch of grated 
cheese for eacli ; work it very soft with milk, and put into 



2J6 COMMON BElfSE. 

a saucepjui to heat, stirring, to prevent bwming. 'When 
scalding hot, stir in one well-beaten egg for six large pota- 
toes Boil up once, fill the skins -with the mixture, repia 
ciag the caps, return them to the oven for three minutes ; 
I Taogo upon a napkin in a deep dish, the caps uppermost . 
xjvciT ■with a fold of the napkin, and eat hot. 

Or, 
Y<n may omit the eggs and put in a double quantity of 
cheese. They are very good. 

"Potato Scallops. 

BoU, and mash the potatoes soft with a little milk. 
Beat up light with melted butter — a dessertspoonful for 
every half-pint of the potato — salt and pepper to taste^ 
Fill some patty-pans or buttered scallop shells with the mix- 
ture, and brown in an oven, when you have stamped a pat- 
tern on the top of each. Glaze, while hot, with butter, and 
serve in the shells. 

If you like, you can strew some grated cheese over the 
top. 

Browned Potatoes — ( Whole). 

Boil and peel some large, ripe potatoes, and three-quar- 
ters of an hour before a piece of roast beef is removed from 
the fire, skim the fat from the gravy ; put the potatoes in 
the dripping-pan, having dredged them well with flour. 
Baste them, to prevent scorching, with the gravy, and 
when quite brown, drain on a sieve. Lay them about the 
laeat in tb.e dish. 

Browned Potato — {Mashed). 

This is also an accompaniment to roast beef or mutton. 
Mash some boiled potatoes smoothly with a little milk, pep- 



KJTAT0E9. 217 

per, salt, and a boiled onion (minced) ; make into smtJl 
cones or balls ; flour ■weU, and put under or beside tLa 
meat, half an tour or so before you take it up. Skim off 
aU the fat from the gravy before putting them in. Drain 
tksm drj when brown, and lay around the meat when 
dished. 

These are nice with roast spare-rib, or any roast pork 
that is not too fat. 

Broiled Potatoes. 

Cut whole boUed potatoes, lengthwise, into slices a 
quarter of an inch thick, and lay upon a gridiron oyer a 
hot, blight fire. Brown on both sides, sprinkle with pep- 
per and salt, lay a bit of butter upon each, and eat very hot. 

Potato Cakes. 

Make cold mashed potato into flat cakes ; flour and fry 
tn lord, or good sweet dripping, until they are a Hght-brown, 

lEoAST Sweet Potatoes.) 

Select those of uniform size, wash, wipe, and roast un- 
til you can tell, by gently pressing the largest between the 
finger and thumb, that it is mellow throughout. Serve in 
their jackets. 

Sweet, as well as Irish potatoes, are very good for pic- 
nic luncheon, roasted in hot ashes. This, it will be remem- 
bered, was the dinner General Marion set before the Brit- 
bh oflB.cer as " quite a feast, I assure you, sir. We don't 
often fare so well as to have sweet potatoes and salt." 

The feast was cleansed from ashes by the ijegro orderly's 
rihirt-sleeve, and served upon a natural trencher of pia&f 
bark. 

10 . 



318 OOUMOir BENBB. 

Boiled Sweet Potatoes. 

Have tliciu all as nearly the same size as possible ; pul 
into cold water, without any salt, and boil until a fork mS 
easily pierce the largest. Turn off the water, and lay them 
in the oven to dry for five minutes. Peel before sending 
to table. 

Or, ^ 

Parboil, and then roast until done. This is a wise plan 
when they are old and watery. Boiling is apt to render 
them tasteless. Another way stiU. is to boil until they are 
almost done, when peel and bake brown, basting them with 
butter several times, but draining them dry before they go 
to the table. 

Fried Sweet Potatoes. ^ 

Parboil them, skin, and cut lengthwise into slices $ 
quarter of an inch thick. Fry in sweet dripping or butter. 

Cold boiled potatoes may be cooked in this way. Or 
you can chop them up with an equal quantity of cold Irisli 
potatoes, put them into a &ying-pan with a good lump of 
butter, and stir until they are hot and slightly brown. 



CABBAGE. 
Boiled Cabbage. 



Pick off the outer green leaves, quarter, examine care 
fiilly to be sure there are no insects in it, and lay for an 
houi in cold water. Then put into a pot with plenty of 
toiling water; and cook fifteen minutes. Throw away the 
Water, and fill ivp the pot from the boiling tearkettle. Cook 
until tender all through. Three-quarters of an hour' will 
lo for a good-sized cabbage when young. T^ate in the sea- 



OABBAOX. 219 

■on jxm must bo guided by tlie tenderness of the stalk, 
Dnan well, cbop, £Uid stir in a tablespoonful of butter, pep- 
per, and salt. Serve very hot. I£ you boil corned beef oi 
pork to eat with cabbage, let the second water be taken 
from the pot in which this is cooking. It will flavor i' 
nicely. 

Always boil cabbage in two waters. 

Bacon and Cabbage. 

This, I need hardly say, is a favorite country dish at 
the South. The old-fashioned way of preparing it was to 
boil meat and cabbage together, and serve, reeking with 
fat, the cabbage in quarters, soaking yet more of the essence 
from the ham or middling about which it lay. In this shape 
it justly earned a reputation for gi-ossness and indigestibility 
that banished it, in time, from many tables. 

Yet it is a savory and not unwholesome article of food in 
winter, if the cabbage be boiled in two waters, the second 
being the " pot-liquor" from the boiling meat. Drain thoi - 
Dughly in a cullender, pressing out every drop of water tha* 
will flow, without breaking the tender leaves; and who" 
the meat is dished, lay the cabbage neatly about it, and upon 
each quarter a slice of hard-boiled egg. 

When you eat, season with pepper, salt, and vinegar. 

Stuffed Cabbage. 

Choose for this purpose a large, firm cabbage. Take oflf 
the outer leaves, and lay in boiling water ten minutes, then 
in veiy cold. Do this several hours before you are ready 
to stuff it. "When perfectly cold, bind a broad tape about it, 
or a strip of muslin, that it may not fall apart when the 
rtalk is taken out. Remove this with a thin sharp knife, 
leaving a hole alwut as deep as your middle finger. Wi'hou< 



%20 COMMON SENSS. 

widening the mouth of the aperture, excavate the centra 
until you have room for four or five tablespoonfuls of the 
force-meat — more, if the head be large. Chop the bits yov 
take out very small ; mix with some minced cold boiled pork 
or ham, or cooked sausage-meat, a ven-y little onion, pepper, 
salt, a pinch of thyme, and some bread-crumbs. Fill the 
cavity with this, bind a -wide strip of muslin over the hole in 
the top, and lay the cabbage in a large saucepan with a pint 
of "pot-liquor" from boiled beef or ham. Stew gently 
until very tender. Take out the cabbage, iinbind carefully, 
and lay in a dish. Keep hot while you add to the gravy, 
■when 3'ou have strained it, pepper, a piece of butter rolled 
in flour, and two or three tablespoonfuls rich milk or cream. 
B*h1 up, and pour over the cabbage. 

" OOLLARDS," OB CaBBAGE-SpEOUTS. 

Pick over carefully, lay in cold water, slightly salted, 
half an hour; shake in a ciJlender to drain, and put into 
boiling water, keeping at a fast boil tmtil tender. A 
piece of pork seasons them pleasantly. In this case put 
the meat en first, adding the gi'eens when it is parboiled, 
and cooking them together. Boil in an uncovered vessel. 
Drain very well ; chop and heap in a dish, laying the meat 
on top. 

Ladies' Cabbage; >{• 

Boil a firm white cabbage fifteen minutes, changing the 
water then for more from the boiling tea-kettle. When 
tender, drain and set aside until perfectly cold. Chop fine, 
and add two beaten eggs, a tablespoonful of butter, pepper, 
aoJ t, three tablespoonfuls rich milk or cream. Stir all well 
togother, and bake in a buttered pudding-dish until brown. 
Kat very hot. 

I can conscientiously recommend this dish even to thoM 



OABBAGB. 22] 

whr %re not fond of any of the ordinary preparations of ssib- 
Dage. It ia digestible and palatable, more nearly resent 
bling cauliflower iii taste than its coarser and commonot- 
cousin- German. 

Fried Cabbage. 

Chop cold boiled cabbage, and drain very dry, stirring 
in a little melted butter, pepper, and salt, with three or 
four tablespoonfuls of cream. Heat all in a buttered fry- 
ing-pan, stirring until smoking hot ; then let the mixture 
stand just long enough to brown slightly on the underside. 
It is improved by the addition of a couple of beaten eggs 
Turn out by putting a flat dish above the pan, upside-down, 
and reversing the latter. 

This IB a breakfast-dish. 

Sauerkraut. 

Shred or chop the cabbage fine. Line a barrel, keg, or 
jar with cabbage-leaves on the bottom and sides. Put in a 
layer of the cut cabbage, three inches in depth ; press down 
well and sprinkle with four tablespoonfuls of salt. When 
you have packed five layers in this way, press hard with a 
board cut to fit loosely on the inside of the barrel or jar 
Put heavy weights on this, or pound with a wooden beetle 
until the cabbage is a compact mass, when remove the board 
and put in more layers of salt and shred cabbage, repeating 
the pounding every four or five layers, until the vessel ia 
full. Cover with leaves, and put the board on the top of 
these with a heavy weight to keep it down. Set all away 
to ferment. In three weeks remove the geum, and if ne<id 
be, cover with water. Keep in a cool Iry -jellar. It can be 
eaten raw or boiled, and seasoned with pork. 

This is the mode simple if not pv/r of preparing this, to 
nostrils unacciisitomed to it, malodorous compound. Som« 



222 COMMON SENSE. 

add to the salt whdle black peppers, cloves, garlic, and mac* 
— " then put it away," as a mild, motherly Teuton dame 
once told me, " in the cellar to r — " — " Eot ! " interpolated a 
disgusted bystander, anticipating her deliberate utterance. 
* No, my dear," drawled the placid Frau, " to ripen." 



CAULIFLOWER. 
Boiled Cauliflower. 

Pick off the leaves and cut the stalk close to the bottom 
of the bunch of flowers. Lay in cold water for half an 
hour. Unless very large, do not cut it ; if you do, quarter 
it neatly. Tie a close net of coarse bobbinet lace or tarlar 
tan about it to prevent breaking or bruising; put into 
boiling water salted, and cook imtil tender. Undo and re- 
move the net, and lay the cauliflower in a hot dish. Have 
ready a large cupful of nice drawn butter and pour over it. 

Cut with a silver knife and fork in helping it out, and 
give a little of the sauce to each person. Take it out of the 
water as soon as it is done, serve qxiickly, and eat hot. It 
darkens with standing. 

Stewed Cauliflower. 
Use for this dish the smaller and more indifferent cauli- 
flowers. Cut them into small clusters ; lay in cold salt and 
water half an hour, and stew fifteen minutes in boiling 
water. Turn most of this off, leaving but half a teacupful 
in the saucepan. Add to this a half-cupful of milk thick 
ened with a very little rice or wheat flour, and two table 
spoonfuls of melted butter, pepper, and salt. Shake the 
■aucepan over the fire gently until it boils ; take out ULe 
cauliflowers with a perforated skimmer, lay in order upon a 
dish, and pour the sauce over them. 



tboetableb. 223 

Scalloped Caulifloweb. 

Boil until tender, clip into neat clusters, and pack — ^th€ 
Btdns downward — ^Ln a buttered pudding-dish. Beat up • 
onpful of bread-crumbs to a soft paste with two tablespoott 
fills of melted butter and three of cream or milk ; season 
with pepper and salt, bind with a beaten egg, and with thi« 
cover the cauUflower. Cover the dish closely and bake six 
minutes in a quick oven ; brown in five more, and serve 
very hot in the dish in which they wore baked. 

Bkoccoli and Brussels Sprouts. 

Pick over, wash carefully, cut off the lower part of the 
stems and lay in cold water, slightly salted, half an hour. 
Cook qiiickly in boiUng water, with a little salt, until tender. 
This will be in twelve or fifteen minutes. Cook in an un- 
covered saucepan. Drain well, lay in a neat pile lightly 
heaped in the centre of a dish, s ad pour drawn butter over 
them, or serve this in a tureen. 

Broccoli and Eggs. 

Boil two or three heads of broccoli imtil tender. Have 
ready two cupfuls of butter drawn in the usual way, and 
beat into it, while hot, four well-whipped eggs. Lay but- 
cered toast in the bottom of a hot dish, and on this the 
largest head of broccoli whole, as a centre-piece. Arrange 
close about this the others out into clusters, the stema 
downward, and pour the egg-sauce over all. 

Mashed Turnips. 

Peel and lay in cold water, slightly salted, untU the 
water boils in the saucepan intended for them. Put them 
m and boil until very tender. The time will depend upon 
sheir ag«. Drain and mash in the cullender with a wooden 



224 COMMON SENSE. 

Bpoon, stirring in at the last a tablespoonful of biittei 
with pepper and salt to taste, and serve hot. 

If eaten with boiled corned beef, you may take a littU 
of the liquor from the pot in which the meat is cooking J 
put it into a saucepan, boil up once to throw off th« 
Bcum, skim clean, and cook the turnips in this. 

Or, 

If the turnips are young, rub them when tender through 
the cullender ; add a little mUk, butter, pepper, and salt ; 
heat to boiling in a clean saucepan, and serve. 

Young Turnips Boiled "Whole. 

Pare smoothly, and trim all into the same size and 
shape. Lay in cold water half an hour. Put on in boiling 
water, with a tablespoonful of butter, and stew until tender. 
Drain dry, without crushing or breaking them ; pile in a 
deep dish, and cover with a white sauce made of butter 
drawn in mUk. Turnips should be eaten very hot always. 

Boiled Spinach. 

In respect to quantity, spinach is desperately deceitful 
I never see it drained after it is boiled without bethinking 
myself of a picture I saw many yeai-s since, illustrative of 
the perils of innocent simplicity. A small (lucky) boy and 
big (unlucky) one have been spending their holiday in fish- 
ing. While the former, well satisfied with the result of his 
day's jport, is busy putting up his rod and tackle, the do- 
signing elder dexterously substitutes his own string of Tn\-t\ 
no rtfs for the other's store of fine perch. The little fellow, 
turning to pick it up, without a suspicion of the cruel cheat, 
makes piteous round eyes at his fellow, ejaculating, "How 
they liave swhrvmh I " 

A ycing housekeeper of my acquaintance, ordering a 



VBGETABLES. 228 

spiiu^ dini.fir for herself and hiisbaiid, piirchased a quart 
of spinach. When it should have appeared upon the table, 
there came in its stead a platter of sliced egg, she having 
given out one for the dressing. " Where is the sjiinach ? " 
she demanded of the maid of all work. " Under the egg, 
ma'am ! " And it was really all there. 

Moral. — Get enough spinach to be visible to the naked 
eye. A peck is not too much for a family of four or five. 

Pick it over very carefully ; it is apt to be gritty. 
Wash in several waters, and let it lie in the last half an 
hour at least. Take out with your hands, shaking each 
bunch well, and put into boiling water, with a little salt. 
Boil from fifteen to twenty minutes. When tender, drain 
thoroughly, chop very fijie ; put into a saucepan with a 
piece of butter the size of an egg, and pepper to taste. Stir 
until very hot, turn into a dish and shape into a flat-topped 
mound with a silver or wooden- spoon; slice some hard- 
boiled eggs and lay on top. 

Or, 
Rub the yolks of the eggs to a powder ; mix with butte* 
and when your mound is raised, spread smoothly over thft 
flat top. Four eggs will dress a good-sized dish. Out tha 
whites into rings and garnish, laying them on the yellow 
surface. This makes a pleasant dressing for the spinach. 

Spinach A la CRftME. 
Boil and chop very fine, or rub through a cuUendei, 
Season with pepper and salt. Beat in, while warm, three 
tablospoonfuls melted butter (this is for a large dish). Put 
into a saucepan and heat, stirring constantlj . When smok- 
ing hot, add three tablespoonfuls of cream and a teaspoonfid 
white sugar. Boil up once, stiU stirring, and press firmly 
into a hot bowl or other mould. Turn into a hot dish anJ 
garnish with boiled eggs. 
10* 



226 COMMON BEirSB. 

Gbeen Peas. 

Shell and lay in cold water until you lire ready to cook 
them. Flit into salted boiling water, and cook from tweir 
ty minutes to half an hour. If young and fresh, the short- 
er time wiU siiffice. If just gathered from jaar own vines 
(,nd tender, season only with salt. Market peas are greatly 
improved by the addition of a small lump of white sugar. 
It improves taste and color. The English always put it in, 
also a sprig of mint, to be removed when the peas ara 
dished. Drain well, and dish, with a great lump of butter 
rtirred in, and a little pepper. Keep hot. 

Pea Fritters or Cakes. »^ 

Cook a pint or three cups more peas than you need for 
ttinner. Mash while hot with a wooden spoon, seasoning 
with pepper, salt, and butter. Put by until morning. Make 
H batter of two whipped eggs, a cupful of milk, quarter tea- 
spoonful soda, a half teaspoonf ul cream tartar, and half a 
cup of flour. Stir the pearmixture into this, beating very 
hard, and cook as you wotdd ordinary griddle-cakes. 

I can testify, from experience, that they make a delight- 
ful morning dish, and hereby return thanks to the unknown 
Mend to whom I am indebted for the receipt. 

AsPABAons (fioUed). 

Ciit your stalks of equal length, rejecting the woody cf 
Hwer portions, and scraping the white part wliich remains. 
ITirow into cold water as you scrape them. Tie in a bunch 
iriith soft strings — ^musUn or tape- — and put into boiling 
water slightly salted. If very young and fresh, it is well 
to tie in a piece of coarse net to protect the tops. Boil 
from twenty to forty minutes, according to the aga, Just 
Itflfore it is done, toast two or three slices of bread, jutting 



VEGETABLES. 227 

off I'Lo >*osi ; dip in the aaparagus liquor, bwtter, and lat 
in. a hot dish. When you take off the asparagus, drain, un 
bind the bundle, and heap it upon the toast, with bits of 
butter between the stalks. 

Asparagus and Eggs, 

Cut twenty-five or thirty heads of asparagus into biti 
half an inch long, and boil fifteen minutes. Have a cup- 
ful of rich drawn.butter in a saucepan, and put in the as- 
paragus when you have drained it dry. Heat together to 
a boil, seasoning with pepper and salt, and pour into a but- 
tered bake-dish. Break five or six eggs carefully over tha 
surface ; put a bit of butter upon each ; sprinkle with salt, 
and pepper, and put in the oven until the eggs are set. 

Or, 4. 

YovL may beat the eggs — yolks and whites separately-— 
to a froth ; season with butter, pepper, and salt ; stir them 
together, with the addition of three tablespoonfuls of milk 
or cream, and pour evenly over the asparagus mixture in 
the dish. This is decidedly the better way of the two, 
although somewhat more troublesome. 

Asparagus in Ambush, t^t 

Cut off the tender tops of fifty heads of asparagus ; boil 
and drain them. Have ready half a dozen (or moie) stale 
biscuit or rolls, from which you have cut a neat top slice 
and scraped out the crumb. Set them in the oven to crisp, 
laying the tops beside them that the cavities may be well 
dried. Meanwhile, put into a saucepan a sugarless custard 
made of a pint — ^if you need so much — of milk, and four 
well-whipped eggs. BoU the milk first, before beating in 
the eggs; set over the fire and stir until it thickens, whea 
tdd a great spoonful of butter, a little salt and pepper f 



238 COMUOK SEITBE. 

lastlj- the asptragus tops, minced fine. Do not let it bsilj 
but take from the fire so soon as the asparagus is fairly in^ 
till the rolls with the mixture, put on the tops, fitting them 
Bccurfitely ; set in the oven three minutes, and arrange on 
a dish, to be eaten hot. 

The number of rolls ■will depend iipon their size. It ii 
better to have them small, so that one can be served to ea3h 
person. They will be found extremely nice. 

Boiled Onions. 

C\it ofi" tops and tails, and skin them. Lay in cold 
water half an hour, then put into a saucepan with enough 
boiling water to cover them. Cook fifteen minutes and 
drain off the water, re-covering them with more from the 
boiliiig tea-kettle. Boil until a straw will pierce them ; 
drain and put into a dish with pepper, salt, and plenty of 
butter. Send around drawn butter with them. Never cook 
onions in an iron pot. 

Stewed Onions. »}• 

Young onions should always be cooked in this way . 
Top, tail, and skin them, lay them in cold water half an hour 
or more, then put into a saucepan with hot water enough 
to cover them. When half done, throw off all the water, 
except a small teacupful — less, if your mess is small ; add 
a like quantity of milk, a great spoonful of butter, with 
pepper and salt to taste. Stew gently until tender, and 
turn into a deep dish. 

If the onions are strong and large, boil in three waters, 
tftirowing away all of the first and second, and reserving ii 
very little of the third to mix with the milk. 

It ought to be more generally known that the disagree* 
bio odor left by any of the onion family upon the breath 
may be removed by chewing and swallowing a few graiiu 



ONiOTfs. 229 

of roasted eoffea No more nutritious vegetable ever find* 
its way to our tables, and it is greatly to be regretted iLal 
the unpleasant result just named should deter so many from 
eating it. It is especially beneficial to brain-workers and 
nervous invalids — the very people who are least likely to 
taste it. 

Baked Onions. 

The large Spanish or Bermuda onions are the only kinds 
which are usually baked. Wash clean, but do not remove 
the skins. Boil an hour — ^the water should be boiling 
when they are put in, and slightly salt. Change it twice 
during this time, always replenishing with more, boiling- 
hot. Turn off the water, take the onions out and lay upon 
a cloth, that aU the moisture may be absorbed or evaporate. 
Roll each in a round piece of buttered tissue-paper, twisting 
it at the top to keep it closed, and bake in a slow oven 
neai'ly an hour. When tender all through, peel them, put 
them into a deep dish, and brown slightly, basting with 
butter fi-eely. This will take perhaps a quarter of an hour 
more. Serve in a vegetable dish, and pour over the melted 
butter, when you have sprinkled with pepper and salt. 

Stuffed Onions. 

Wash and skin very large Bermuda onions. Lay in 
eold water an hour. Parboil in boiling water half an hour. 
Drain, and while hot extract the hearts, taking care not to 
break the outer layers. Chop the inside thus obtained very 
fine, with a little cold fat pork or bacon. Add bread 
crumbs, pepper, salt, mace, and wet with a spoonful ot two 
of cream. Bind with a well-beaten egg, and work into s 
smooth paste. Stuff the oni? as with this ; put into a drii.- 
ping-pan with a very little hot water, and simmer in the . 
o^en for an hour, basting often with melted butter, WheD 



S30 OOMUON BENBB. 

done, take the onioua up carefully, and arrange the opei 
ends uppermost in a vegetable dish. Add to the gravy in 
the dripping-pan the juice of half a lemon, four tablespoon- 
fuls of cream or milk, and a little browned flour wet with 
cold milk. Boil up once, and pour over the onions. 

Stewed Tomatoes. ^ 

Loosen the skins by poiiring scalding water upon them ; 
peel and cut them up, extracting the cores or hard part o* 
the stem-end, and removing all unripe portions. Stew in a 
saucepan (tin or porcelain) Aalf an hour, when add salt 
*nd pepper to taste, a teaspoonful of white sugar, and a 
tablespoonful of butter. Stew gently fifteen minutes longer, 
and serve. ^ 

Some cooks thicken the tomatoes with a little grated 
breiid. A minced onion — a small one — improves the flavoi 
Another pleasant variety is to put a quarter as much green 
corn as you have tomatoes into the saucepan when it is first 
set on the fire, and stew gently. 

Stuffed Baked Tomatoes. >J< 

Choose large, smooth tomatoes, and cut a thin slice 
from the blossom end of each, laying it aside for further 
use. Scoop out the inside, and chop fine with a little grated 
bread, some green com, salt, pepper, a teaspoonful white 
sugar, and a tablespoonful butter. Mix well, and stuff the 
hollowed tomatoes. Fit the top on neatly, place in circu- 
lar rows in a deep dish and bake three-quarters of an hour, 
to a light brown. Fill the interstices with the force-meat 
if you have any left, before you bake. Do not peel them. 

Scalloped Tomatoes. «}• 

Feel and cut in slices a quarter of an inch thick. Fack 
in a pulding-dish in alternate layers, with a force-meat mad< 



* TOMATOES. 231 

of bread •crumbs, butter, salt, pepper, and a little whit* 
sugar. Spread thickly upon each stratum of tomatoes, ar d 
when the dish, is nearly full, put tomatoes uppermost, a 
good bit of butter upon each sUce. Dust with pepper and 
a little sugar. Strew with dry bread-crumbs, and bake cot 
ered balf an hour ; remove the lid and bake brown. 

Scallop of Tomatoes and Green Corn. »J» 

This is made as above, substituting for the bread-crumbs 
in the force-meat, green corn cut from the cob, and season- 
ing with some fat pork chopped very fine, a minced shallot, 
pepper, salt, and sugar. Let the top layer be tomatoes, 
butter and season, and sift grated bread-crumbs over it to 
brown the scallop. Bake covered half an hour ; uncove* 
suid leave in the oven as much longer. This time is for a 
large dishful. 

Bkoiled Tomatoes. 

Select large, firm ones, and do not peel. Slice half an 
inch thick, and broU upon an oyster gridiron. A few 
minutes will suffice to cook them. Have ready in a cup 
some hot butter, seasoned with pepper, salt, a little sugar, 
and a half a teaspoonful of made mustard. As soon as the 
tomatoes are done, dip each piece in this mixture and lay 
upon a hot chafing-dish. When all are dished, heat what 
remains of the seasoning to a boil, pour upon them, and 
eerve at once. 

Broiled tomatoes are much Hked by those who hav« 
eaten them cooked in this manner. 

Baked Tomatoes (Plmn). 

Peel and slice a quarter of an inch thick. Pack in • 
pudding-dish, seasoning each layer with salt, pepper, butter, 
and a very little white sugar. Bake covered half an houi ' 



232 COMMON SENSE. 

remove the lid, and brown for fifteen minutes. Five min- 
ates before taking from the oven, pour over the top thre« 
or foTir tablespoonfuls of cream whipped up for a fev 
minutes with melted butter. 

Ra.W TOSIATOES. 

Do not loosen the skins with scalding water. It ki 
pairs the flavor and destroys the crispness. Pare with a 
keen knife, slice and lay in a glass dish. Season with 
pepper, salt, and vinegar, stirring a piece of ice rapidly 
around in the dressing before pouring it over the tomatoes, 
and setting the dish in the refrigerator until wanted. 

There is no salad, excepting, perhaps, lettuce and curuni' 
bers, that is more improved by the use of ice than tomatoes. 

Raw Cucumbess. 

Pare neatly from end to end, and lay in ice-water one 
hour. Wipe them and slice thin. Season with pepper, 
salt, and vinegar — and oil, if you wish — laying some bits of 
ice among them, with thin slices of onion. Cucumbers 
should be gathered while the dew is on them, and eaten the 
same day. Leave them in a cool place until you are ready 
to pare them. 

Fbied Cucumbers. »J< 

Pare and lay in ice-water half an hour. Cut length- 
wise into slices newrly half an inch thick, and lay in ice- 
water ten minutes longer. Wipe each piece dry with a 
soft cloth, sprinkle with pepper and salt, and dredge with 
flour. Fry to a delicate brovn in sweet clarified drippingj 
nice lard, or butter. 

Many declare that cucumbers are never fit to eat unlesi 
fried, and they are assuredly far more wholesome than 
«rhen served raw. 



GBEEN dOBN. 233 

Stewed Cucumbers. 

Pare, lay in ice-water an hour ; then slice a quartet of 
an inch thick. Pick out the seeds with a pen-knife, and 
put into a saucepan with enough boiling water to cover 
them. Stew fifteen minutes, and drain off the water. 
Add enough from the boiling tea-kettle to keep them from 
burning ; season with salt and pepper, and stir carefully 
in a tablespoonful of butter — or two, should the quantity 
of cucumber be large. Stew gently ten minutes, and add 
half a cupful of rich milk ; thicken with a little flour, 
boil up, and serve in a deep dish, squeezing some lemon- 
juice in at the last. 

This is a popular English dish, although it seems a 
strange onb to American ideas. 

Boiled Greek Corn. 

Choose young sugar-corn, full grown, but not hard ; 
test with the nail. When the grain is pierced, the milk 
should escape in a jet, and not be thick. Clean by strip- 
ping off the outer leaves, turn back the innermost cover- 
ing carefully, pick off every thread of silk, and recover 
the car with the thin husk that grew nearest it. Tie at 
the top with a bit of thread, put into boiling water salted, 
and cook fast from twenty minutes to half an hour, in 
proportion to size and age. Cut off the stalks close to the 
cob, and send whole to table wrapped in a napkin. 

Or, you can cut from the cob while hot, and reason 
with butter, pepper, and salt. Send to table in a root o» 
TBgetable iish. 

Corn and Tomatoes. 

Take equal quantities, of green com cut from the oob, 
■nd tomatoes sliced and peeled. Stew togrtber half as 



234 COMMON SXKSE. 

hoiir; season with pepper, lalt, and a very jttlis sugar, 
Stew fifteen minutes longer, and stir in a gieat lump of 
bvitter, Five minutes later, pour out and serve. 

Succotash. 

This is made of green corn and Lima beans, although 
yovL can substitute for the latter string or butter beans 
Have a third more com than beans, when the former ha« 
been cut from the cob and the beans shelled. Put intv 
boiling water enough to cover them — ^no more — and stew 
l{ently together until tender — perhaps half an hour — stir-- 
ring now and then. Poux off nearly all the water, and 
add a large cupful of milk. Stew in this, watching to pre- 
vent burning, for an hour ; then stir in a great himp of 
butter, a teaspoonful of flour wet with cold milk, pepper 
and salt to taste. Boil up once, and pour into a deep 
vegetable-dish. If you use string-beans, string and cut up 
into half-inch lengths before cooking. 

Green OoEif Pudding. J^ 

1 quart milk. 
5 eggs. 

,2 tablespoonfuls melted butter, 
1 " white (Sugar. 

1 dozen ears of com — large ones. 

Grate the com from the cob ; beat the whites and yolka 
of the eggs separately. Put the com and yolks together, 
Btir hard, and add the butter; then the milk gradually, 
beating all the while; next the sugar and a little salt; 
lastly the whites. Bake slowly at first, covering the dish, 
for an hour, Eemove the cover, and brown finely. 

This is a most delicious accompaniment to a mea* 
M'iTse, when properly mixed and baked. Warm up whal 



OBBEM COKS. ^35 

IS left from dinner for breakfast, by n Msteiiiug it with a 
little warm milk and stirring in a saucepan until smokinf 
hot. You can make this pudding from canned com in 
wifl'»r. 

Grben Cokx Fritters or Cakes. "J* 

Grate the com, and allow an egg and a half for every 
enpful, with a tablespoonful of milk or cream. Beat the 
eggs well, add the corn by degrees, beatiag very hard ; salt 
to taste; put a tablespoonful of melted butter to every 
pint of corn ; stir in the milk, and thicken with just 
enough flour to hold them together — say a tablespoonful 
for every two eggs. You may fry in hot lard, as you would 
fritters, but a better plan is to cook upon a griddle, Kke 
batter cakes. Test a little first, to see that it is of the 
right consistency. 

Eaten at dinner or breakfast, these always meet with a 
cordial welcome. 

Stewed Green Corn. 

Cut from the cob, and stew fifteen minutes in boUiug 
vater. Tiim oS most of this, cover with cold milk, and 
stew until very tender, adding, before you take it up, a 
large lump of butter cut into bits and rolled in flour. 
Season with pepper and salt to taste. Boil five minutes, 
and serve. 

Cold com left from dinner should be cut from the cob 
and stewed a few minutes in a little milk, adding seasoning 
as above. Or, you can mix it with chopped cold potatoes- 
Irish or sweet ; heat a piece of butter or beef-drippiag io 
ft frying-pan, and stir in the mixture until smckiiiig'bot, 
Never throw away a good e&y of sweet com. 



236 common sense. 

Roasted Green Corn. 

Turn back ilie huska upon the stalk, pick off the silk, 
recover ssiih the husks closely as possible, and roast iu tht 
hot ashes of a wood-fire. Eat with butter, salt, and pep 
per, out of doors, in the forest, or on the beach. 

Salsify or Oyster-Plant {StewecC). •{« 

Scrape the roots, dropping each into cold water as soon 
as it is cleaned. Exposure to the air blackens them. Cut 
in pieces an inch long, put into a saucepan with hot water 
enough to cover them, and stew until tender. Turn ofl 
learly all the water, and add a cupful of cold milk. 
»5tew ten minutes after this begins to boil ; put iii a great 
lump of butter, cut into bits, and rolled in flour ; pepper 
and salt to taste. Boil up once, and serve. The taste in 
curiously like that of stewed oysters. 

Fried Salsify, or Mock Oysters. »J« 

Scrape tne roots thoroughly, and lay in cold water ten 
or fifteen minutes. Boil whole until tender, drain, and 
when cold, mash with a wooden spoon to a smooth pastOf 
picking out all the fibres. Moisten with a little milk ; add 
a tablespoonful of butter, and an egg and a half for every 
cupful of salsify. Beat the eggs light. Make into round 
cakes, dredge with flour, and fiy brown. 

Fried Egg-Plant. •}• 

Slice the egg-plant at least half an inch thick ; pare each 
piece carefully, and lay in salt and water, putting a plate 
upon the topmost to keep it under the bruie, and let them 
alone for an hour or more. Wipe each slice, dip in beaten 
egg, then in cracker-crumbs, and fry in hot lard until weU 
done and nicely browned. 



vb6etableb. 237 

Stuffed Eqg-Plant. 

Parboil for ten minutes. Slit each down itie side, and 
Kttract tlie seeds. Prop opea the cut with a bit of clean 
wood or china, and lay in cold salt and water while you 
prepare the force-meat. Make this of bread-crumbs, minute 
bits of fat pork, salt, pepper, nutmeg, parsley, and a very 
little onion, chopped up together. Moisten with cream, and 
bind with a beaten egg. Fill the cavity in the egg-plant 
with this ; wind soft pack-thread about them to keep the 
aUt shut, and bake, putting a little water in the dripping- 
pan. Baste with butter and water when they begin to 
cook. Test with a straw when they are tender, and baste 
twice at the last with butter. Lay the egg-plants in a dish, 
add two or three tablespoonfnls of cream to the gi-avy 
thicken with a little flour, put in a teaspoonful of choppec, 
parsley, boil up once, and pour over the vegetable. 

Boiled Cahkots. 

Wash and scrape well, and lay in cold water half ai\ 
hour. If large, split them, or cut across in two or thren 
pieces. Put into boiling water, slightly salted, and boil 
until tender. Large ones will require nearly an hour and 
a half to cook. Young carrots should only be washed be- 
fore they are boiled, and the skin be rubbed off with a cloth 
afterward. Butter well, and serve hot. 

Stewed Cakrots. 

Scrape, and lay in cold water half an hour or more. 
Boil whole three-quarters of an hour, drain, and cut into 
round slices a quarter of an inch thick. Put on in a sauce • 
pan with a teacupful of broth — ^veal, or beef, or mutton ; 
pepper and salt to taste, and stew gently half an hour. Just 
before they are done, add four tablespoonfnls cream or milk, 



COMMON SENSE. 

and a good lump of butter cut into bits, and rolled in flovu 
Boil up and serve. 

If you have not the broth, use water, and put in a tablo 
spoonful of buttrr when the saucepan is set on the fire, in 
addition to the quantity I have specified. 

Another Way. 

Scrape and boil untU nearly done. Cut into small 
squares, and put into a saucepan, with two small onions 
minced ; a little chopped parsley, pepper and salt to taste^ 
anil half a cup of rather thin drawn butter. They will re- 
quire half an hour's simmering. Serve hot. 

Mashed Cakbots. 

Wash, scrape, and lay in cold water a while. Boil very 
tender in hot water, slightly salted. Drain, and mash 
with a beetle or wooden spoon, working in a large spoonful 
of butter, with pepper and salt. A little cream will im 
prove them. Mound as you would mashed potatoes, and 
stamp a figure upon them, or mark in squares with a knife. 

French, or String or " Snap " Beans. 

Break off the tops and bottoms and " string " carefully. 
TJien pare both edges with a sharp knife, to be certain that 
no remnant of the tough fibre remains. Not one cook in 
a hundred performs this duty as deftly and thoroughly as 
it should be done. I have heard several gentlemen say that 
they could always tell, after the first mouthful, whether the 
mistross or the hireling had " strung " the beans. It is a 
tedious and disagreeable business, this pulling bits of woody 
thread out of one's mouth when he wants to enjoy his dinner. 

Cut the beans thus cleared of their troublesome attnchei, 
in pieces an inch long, and lay in cold water with a li^tlf 



TEO£TABL£8. 

■alt for fifteen or twenty minutes. Drain them, and pu< 
into a saucepan of boiling water. Boil quickly, twenty 
minutes if well-gi-own — ^less if small — at any rate, until 
tonder. Drain in a cullender until the water ceases to drij 
from them. Dish with a great spoonful of butter stirred in. 
To my taste, beans need to have a bit of bacon boiled 
with them — whole, or chopped into bits that dissolve in the 
boiling. It mellows the rank taste you seek to remove hy 
boiling. ^ ^ 

(Lima and Butter Beans^ 

Shell into cold water ; let them lie a while ; put into a 
pot with plenty of boiling water and a little salt, and cooif 
fast until tender. Large ones sometimes require nearly an 
hoiu-'s boiling. The average time is forty minutes. Drain 
and butter well when dished, peppering to taste. 

Kidney am) other Small Beaks. 

Shell into cold water, and cook in boiling until tender 
A small piece of fat bacon boiled with them is an advan 
tage to nearly all. If you do this, do not salt tbem. 

Dkied Beans. 

"Wash and soak over night in lukewarm water, chang- 
ing it several times for warmer. If this is done they wiU 
require but two hours' boiling. Drain very thoroughly, 
pressing them firmly, but lightly, in the cuUender with a 
wooden spoon; mix in a great lump of butter when they 
are dished. 

Boiled Beets. 

Wash, but do not touch with a knife before they are 
boUod. If out while raw, they bleed themselvei: pale in 
the hot water Boil until tender — ^if full-grown at leasr 



240 COMMON BENSB. 

two hours. When done, rub off the skins, slice round if 
large, split if young, and butter well in the dish. Salt aiid 
pepper to taste. ' 

A nice way is to slice them upon a hot dish, mix a great 
six)onf ul of melted butter with four or five of vinegar, pep- 
per and salt, heat to boUrng, and pour over the beets. 

Instead of consigning the cold ones "left over" to th« 
gwill paU, pour cold vinegar upon them and use as picklea 
with cold or roast meat. 

Stewed Beets 

Boil young, sweet beets, until nearly done ; skin and 
idice. them. Put into a saucepan with a minced shallot and 
parsley, two tablespoonfuls melted butter, a like quantity 
of vinegar, some salt and pepper. Set on the fire and sim- 
mer twenty minutes, shaking the saucepan now and then. 
Serve with the gravy poured over them. ^^ 

Boii;ED Parsbips. 

If young, scrape before cooking. If old, pare carefully, 
and if large, split. Put into boiling water, salted, and boil, 
If small and tender, from half to three-quarters of an hour, 
If full-grown, more than an hour. When tender, drain and 
slice lengthwise, buttering well when you dish. 

Fried Parsnips. »J« 

Boil tuxtil tender, scrape off the skin, and cut in thick 
lengthwise slices. Dredge with flour and fry in hot drip 
|iing or lard, turning when one side is browned Dntin off 
«fery drop of fat; pepper, and serve hot. 



TllOETABLBB. 241 

Paksnip Fritters. •{• 

BoD tender, mash smooth and fine, picking out tha 
woody bits. For three large parsnips allow two eggs, one 
Clip rich milk, one tablespoonful butter, one teaspoonful 
salt, three taljlespoonfiils flour. Beat the eggs light, stir in 
tho mashed parsnips, beating hard; then the butter and, 
salt, next the milk, lastly the salt. Fry as fritters, or as 
griddle-cakes. 

Mashed Parsnips. 

Boil and scrape them, mash smooth with the back of a 
wooden spoon, or a potato-beetle, picking out the fibres ; 
mix in three or four spoonfuls of cream, a great spoonful 
of butter, pepper and salt to taste. Heat to boiling in a 
saucepan, and serve. Heap in a mound as you would po- 
tato cooked in the same way. 

' ' Buttered Parsnips. 

Boil tender and scrape. Slice a quarter of an inch thick 
lengthwise. Put into a saucepan with three tablespoonfuls 
melted butter, pepper and salt, and a little chopped parsley, 
bhake over the fire until the mixture boils. Lay the pars- 
nips in order upon a -dish, pour the sauce over them, and 
garnish with parsley. It is a pleasant addition to this dish 
to stir a few spoonfuls of cream into the sauce after the 
parsnips are taken out ; boil up, and pour upon them. 

Boiled Sea-kale. 

Tie up in bunches when you have picked it over care- 
fitlly, and lay in 3old water for an hour. Put into saltisd 
bailing water, and cook twenty or thirty minutes until ten- 
der. Lay some slices of buttered toast in the bottom of a 
lisb, uUp tho threads binding the stems of the sea^kale,-and 
11 



242 IJOUHON BBNBK. 

pile upon the toast, buttering it abundantly. Or, you c«v 
Bend axound with it a boat of drawn buLter. 

Stewed Sea-kat.k. 

Clip off th.e stems, wash well, tie in neat bunches, and 
when it has lain in cold water an hour or so, put into a 
saucepan of boiling water, slightly salted. Boil fifteen 
minutes, drain well, clip the threads, and return to the 
saucepan, with a little rich gravy if you have it. If not, 
pour in three or four tablespoonfuls of butter drawn in milk, 
pepper and salt, and simmer eight or ten minutes. 

Artichokes. 

Strip off the outer leaves, and cut the stalks close to 
the bottom. Wash well and lay in cold water two hours. 
Immerse in boUing water, the stalk-ends uppermost, with 
an inverted plate upon them to keep them down. Boil an 
hour and a half, or until very tender. Arrange in circles 
upon a dish, the tops up, and pour drawn butter over 
them. 

Summer Squash or Cymbling. 

There are many varieties of this vegetable, but the gen 
eral rules for cooking them are the same. Unless they arQ 
extremely tender, it is best to pare them, cutting away as 
little as possible besides the hard outer rind. Take out 
the seeds, when you have quartered them, and lay the 
pieces in cold water. Boil until tender throughout. Drain 
well, pressing Dut all the water ; mash soft and smooth, sea- 
Boning with batter, pepper, and salt. Do this quickly, that 
yon may serve up hot. 



teoetablbb. 24:3 

Winter Squash. 

Pare, take out the seeds, cut into small pieces, ari ste'W 
nntU soft and tender. Drain, press well, to lid it of all thp 
water, and mash with butter, pepper, and salt. It will 
take much longer to cook than the summer squash, and be- 
fore you pat it into hot water, should lie in cold at leasi 
two hours. 

Stewed Pumpkin. 

Cut in two, extract the seeds, slice, and pare. Cover 
with cold water for an hour ; put over the fire in a pot of 
boiling water and stew gently, stirring often, until it brea « 
to pieces. Drain and squeeze, rub through a cullender, 
then return to the saucepan with a tablespoonful of butter, 
pepper, and salt to taste. Stir rapidly from the bottom 
nntil very hot, when dish, rounding into a mound, with 
*' dabs " of pepper on the top. 

'Baked Pumpkin.] 

Choose the richest pumpkin you can find ; take out the 
seeds, cut in quarters or eighths, pare, and slice lengthwise 
half an inch thick. Arrange in layers — not more than twr 
or three slices deep — in a shallow but broad baking-dish 
Put a very little water in the bottom, and bake very slowly 
antU not only done, but dry. It requires a long time, 
for the heat should be gentle. Butter each strip on both 
sides when you dish, and eat hot with bread and butter for 
tea. 

I have been assured, by people who have tried it, that 
this is a palatable dish to those who are fond of the flavoi 
of pumpkin. ] insert it here upon their recommendation 
— ^not my own 



244 common sen8b. 

Poke Stalks. 
When the young stalks are not larger than a man's lit 
tie finger, and show only a tuft of leaves at top a feM 
inches aboTe ground, is the time to gather them. They avp 
unfit for table use when larger and older. Scrape the 
stalks, but do not cut off the leaves. Lay in cold water, 
with a little salt, for two hours. Tie in bundles, as you do 
asparagus, put into a saucepan of boiling water, and cook 
fast three-quarters of an hour. Lay buttered toast in the 
bottom of a dish, untie the bundles, and pile the poke 
p.venly upon it, buttering very well, and sprinkling with pep- 
j,er and salt. This is a tolerable substitute for asparagus. 

Mushrooms. 

ImpriTthis, — Have nothing to do with them until you 
are an excellent judge between the true and false. That 
Bounds somewhat like the advice of the careful mother to 
ner son, touching the wisdom of never going near the water 
wntil he learned how to swim — but the caution can hardly 
be stated too strongly. Not being ambitious of martyrdom, 
even in the cause of gastronomical enterprise, especially if 
the instrument is to be a contemptible, rank-smelling fun- 
gus, I never eat or cook mushrooms ; but I learned, years 
ago, in hill-side rambles, how to distinguish the real from 
the spurious article. Shun low, damp, shady spots in youi 
quest. The good mushrooms are most plenty in August 
and September, and spring up in the open, sunny fields or 
commons, after low-lying fogs or soaking dews. The top is 
a dirty white, — pa/r complaisance, pearl-color, — the under- 
side pink or salmon, changing to russet or brown soon after 
they are gathered. The poisonous sport all colors, and ara 
usually far prettier than their virtuous kindred. Those 
which are dead-white above and below, as well as the stalk 
are also to be let alone. 



MUSBB00M8. ^ii 

Cook a peeled white onion in the pot with your mush 
rooms. If it turn black, throw all away, and be properlj 
thankful for your escape. It is also deemed safe to reject 
the mess of wild pottage, if, iu stirring them, your silver 
spoon should blacken. But I certainly once knew a lady 
who did not discover untU hers were eaten and partially 
digested, that the silver had come to grief in the discharge 
of duty. It was very dark, and required a deal of rubbing 
to restore cleanliness and polish ; but the poison — if deatli 
were, indeed, in the pot — was slow in its effects, since she 
lived many years after the experiment. It is as well per 
haps, though, not to repeat it too often. 

To r5-capitulate. — The eatable ones are round wher 
they first show their heads in a critical world. As tliej 
grow, the lower part unfolds and reveals a lining of salmon 
fringe, while the stalk and top are dirty white. When the 
mushroom is more than twenty-four hours old, or within a 
few hours after it is gathered, the salmon changes to brown. 
The skin can also be more easily peeled from the edges than 
m the spurious kinds. 

Stewed Mushrooms. 

Choose button mushrooms of uniform size. Wipe clean 
and white with a wet flannel cloth, and cut off the stalks 
Put into a porcelain saucepan, cover with cold water, and 
Btew very gently fifteen minutes. Salt to taste; add a 
tablespooufiil of butter, divided into bits and roUed in 
flour. Boil three or four minutes ; stir in three table- 
gpconfuls of cream whipped up with an egg, stir two mui- 
ntes without letting it boil, and serve. 

Or, 

Bub them white, stew in water ten minutes ; strain par- 
dally, and cover with as much warm milk as you hav« 



246 OOMKUir SEKBS. 

poured off water ; stew five minutes in this ; salt., pepper 
and add some veal or chicken gravy, or drawn, butter 
Thicken with a little floor wet in cold milk, and a beates 

egg- 

Baked Mushhooms. 

Take fresh ones, — the size is not very important, — cul 
off nearly all the stalks, and wipe off the skin with wet 
flannel. Arrange neatly in a pie-dish, pepper and salt 
sprinkle a little mace among them, and lay a bit of buttei 
upon each, Bake about half an hour, basting now and 
then with butter and water, that they may not be too dry. 
Serve in the dish in which they were baked, with maitra 
,th6td sauce poured over them. 

Broiled Mushrooms. 

Peel the finest and freshest you can get, score the under 
Bide, and cut the stems close. Put into a deep dish and 
anoint well, once and again, with melted butter. Salt and 
)(<epper, and let them lie in the butter an hour and a half. 
UPhen broil over a clear, hot fire, using an oyster-gridiron, 
and turning it over as one side browns. Serve hot, well 
tuttered, pepper and salt, and squeeze a few drops of lemon- 
juice upon each. 

Celery. 

Wash and scrape the stalks when you have cut off the 
roots. Cut off the green leaves and reject the greenest, 
toughest stalks. Retain the blanched leaves that grow 
nearest the heart. Keep in cold water imtil you send to 
the table. Serve in a celery glass, and let each guest dip is 
■alt far himself. (/See Gdery Salad.) 



badishks okka. 241 

Radisb.es. 

A fiieud of mine, after many and ■woful trials with "tin 
greatest plague of life," engaged a supercilious young lady 
who " only hired out in the best of families as a professed 
cook." She arrived in the afternoon, and was told that tea 
would be a simple affair — ^bread-and-butter, cold meat, cake, 
and a dish of radishes, which .were brought in from the gar- 
den as the order was given. The lady was summoned tc 
the parlor at that moment, and remarked in leaving — " You 
can prepare those now, Bridget." Awhile later she peeped 
iinto the kitchen, attracted by the odor of hot fat. The 
trying-pan hissed on the fire, the contents were a half-pound 
of butter, and the " professional " stood at the table with a 
»d,dish topped and tailed in one hand, a knife in the other 
" I'm glad to see ye," thus she greeted the intruder. " la 
it paled or onpaled ye'll have them radishes ? Some of the 
quality likes 'em fried wid the skins on — some widout. T 
thought I'd wait and ask yerself." 

My readers can exercise their own choice in the matter 
of peeling, putting the frying out of the question. Wash 
and lay them in ice- water so soon as they are gathered. 
Cut off the tops when your breakfast or supper is ready, 
leaving about an inch of the stalks on ; scrape off the skin 
if you choose, but the red ones are prettier if you do not ; 
arrange in a tall glass or a round glass saucer, the stalks out- 
side, the points meeting in the centre ; lay cracked ice 
among them and send to table. Scrape and quarter the 
large white ones. 

Good radishes are crisp to the teeth, look cool, and tast 
oot. 

Okba. 

Boil the young pods, in enough salted hot water tc 
ooTer them, until tender. Drain thoroughly, and when 



248 COMMOK BENSE. 

dialled pour over them a sauce of three or four spooniult 
melted (not drawn) butter, a tablespoonful of vinegar, pep- 
per and salt to taste. Heat to boiling before covering Ihe 
okras with it. 

Boiled Homint. 

The large kinij, made of cracked, not groimd com, ii 
eiToneously termed " samp " by Northern grocers. This ii 
the Indian name for the fine-graiaed. To avoid confusion, 
w^e will call the one large, the other small. Soak the large 
over night in cold water. Next day put it into a pot 
with at least two quarts of water to a quart of the hominy, 
and boU slowly three hours, or' until it is soft. Drain in a 
cullender, heap in a root-dish, and stir in butter, pepper, and 
salt. 

Soak the small hominy in the same way, and boJ ia aa 
much water, slowly, stirring very often, almost constantly 
at the last. It should be as thick as mush, and is generally 
eaten at breakfast with sugar, cream, and nutmeg. It is » 
good and exceedingly wholesome dish, especially for chij 
dren. The water in which it is boiled should be slightly 
salt. If soaked in warm water, and the same be changed 
once or twice for warmer, it will boU soft in an hour. Boii 
in the last water. 

Fkied Hominy. 

If large, put a good lump of butter or dripping in the 
fijing-pan, and heat. Turn in some cold boiled hominy, 
and cook until the under-side is browned. Place a dish up 
side down on the frying-pan and upset the latter, that the 
brown rrust may be uppermost. 

Eat with meat. 

Cut the small hominy in slices and fry in hot lard oi 
drippings. Or, moisten to a soft paste with milk ; beat in 
some melted butter, bind with a beaten egg, form intc 



HOMmr UBOQUETTES BAKED HOMIST. 249 

round cukes with your hands, dredge with floar aud fry i 
light hrown. 

Hominy Ckoquettes. •{* 

To a cupf il of cold boiled hominy (small-grained) add i 
tablespoonful melted butter and stir hard, moistening, by 
degrees, 'with a cupful of milk, beating to a soft light pasta 
Put in a teaspoonful of white sugar, and lastly, a ■well" 
beaten egg. Roll into oval balls with floured hands, dip in 
beaten egg, then cracker-crumbs, and fry in hot lard. 

Very good ! 

Baked Homint. »J« 

To a cupful of cold boiled hominy (small kind) allow 
two cups of milk, a heaping teaspoonful of butter, a tea^ 
spoonful of white sugar, a little salt, and three eggs. Beat 
the eggs very light, yolks and whites separately. Work 
the yolks first into the hominy, alternately with the melted 
butter. When thoroughly mixed, put in sugar and saltj 
and go on beating while you soften the batter gradually 
with the milk. Be careful to leave no lumps in the hominy. 
Lastly stir in the whites, and bake in a buttered puddinij- 
dish until light, firm, and delicately browned. 

This can be eaten as a dessert, but it is a delightfoJ 
vegetable, and the best substitute that can be devised fof 
green com pudding. 

vEicE Ckoquettes.) A 

Half a cup of rice. 

1 pint milk. 

2 tablespoonfuls sugar. 

3 eggs. 

A little grated lemon-peeL 
1 tablespoonful melted butter, 
A saltspoonful salt. 
11* 



•250 OOMMON 8ENSK. 

Soak the rice three hours in warm water enough td 
cover it. Drain almost dry, and pour in the milk. Stew 
in a, farina-kettle, or one saucepan set in another of hoi 
water, until the rice is very tender. Add the siigar, butlrr 
ajid salt, and simmer ten minutes. "Whisk the eggs to a 
froth, and add cautiously, taking the saucepan from the fira 
while you whip them into the mixture. Return to the 
range or stove, and stir while they thicken, not allowing 
them to boil. Remove the saucepan, au 1 add the gntted 
lemon-peel ; then turn out upon a well-greased dish to 
cool. When cold and stiff, flour your hands and roll into 
)val or pear-shaped balls ; dip in beaten egg, then in fine 
sraoker-crumbs, and fry in nice lard. 

Or, 

Vou can make a plainer dish of cold boiled rice, mois- 
tened with milk and a little melted butter to a smooth 
paste. Add sugar and salt, bind with two or three beaten 
eggs ; make into cakes or balls, and proceed as directed 
ftbove. Eat hot with roast or boiled fowls. If you shape 
like a r^ar, stick a clove in the small end for the stem. 

Boiled Rice. 

Pick over carefully and wash in two waters, letting it 
stand in the last until you are ready to boil. Have ready 
some boiling water slightly salted, and put in the rice. 
Boil it just twenty minutes, and do not put a spoon in it, 
but sibake up hard and often, holding the cover on with tho 
other hand. When done, drain off the water, and set the 
sauce-pan itncovered upon the range, where the rioo will 
diy, nol bum, for five minutes. 

VaI with boiled rauiton or fowls. 



MACAKONl, 25'' 

Baked Macaroni. >^ 

Bteak half a pound of pipe macaroni in pieces an inch 
long, and put into a saucepan of boiling water slightly 
salted. Stew gently twenty minutes. It should be soft, 
but not broken or split. Drain well and put a layer in tha 
bottom of a buttered pie or pudding-dish ; upon this grate 
some mild, rich cheese, and scatter over it some bits ol 
butter. Spread upon the cheese more macaroni, and fiU 
the dish in this order, having macaroni at the top, but- 
tered well, without the cheese. Add a few spoonfuls of 
cream or milk, and a very little salt. Bake covered hali 
an hour, then brown nicely, and serve in the bake-dish. 

Stewed Macaroni — Italian Style. 

Break the macaroni into inch lengths, and stew twenty 
Piinutes, or until tender. Prepare the sauce beforehand. 
i;ut half a pound of beef into strips and stew half an hour, 
Ihe water should be cold when the meat is put in. At the 
e*id of that time, add a minced onion and a pint of toma- 
toes peeled and sliced. Boil for an hour, and strain 
through a cullender when you have taken out the meat. 
The sauce should be well boiled down by this time. You 
do not want more than a pint for a large dish of macaroni. 
Keturn the liquid to the saucepan, add a good piece ol 
butter, with pepper and salt, and stew until you are ready 
to dish the macaroni. Drain this well, sprinkle lightly 
with salt, and heap upon a chafing-dish or in a root-dish. 
Pour the tomato sauce over it ; cover and let it stand in a 
(Farm place ten minutes before sending to table. Send 
around grated cheese with it. The Italians serve the meat 
also in a separate dish as a ragoAt, adding some of the eauce, 
highly seasoned with pepper and other spices. 



852 COIfMON BEXBE. 

Macakoni X LA Cri^me. ^ 

Cock the macaroni ten minutes iii boiling water 
Diain this off, and add a cupful of milk, ■with a KM le salt. 
Stew until tender. In another saucepan heat a CTip oi 
tnilk to boiling, thicken with a teaspoouful of flour, stir in 
a tablespoonful of butter, and lastly, a beaten egg. Whun 
this thickens, pour over the macaroni after it is dished. 

This is a simple and good dessert, eaten with butter, 
sugar, and nutmeg, or sweet savice. If set on with meat, 
grate, cheese thickly over it, or send around a saucer of 
grated cheese with it. 

Eeas. 

To guess (I do not say determine) whether an egg ia 
good, shut one eye; frame the egg in the hollow of the 
hand, telescope-wise, and look at the sun through it with 
the open eye. If you can distinctly trace the outline 
nf the yolk and the white looks clear around it, the chances 
are in favor of the egg and the buyer. Or, shake it gently 
at yoxir ear. If addled, it will gurgle like water ; if there 
is a chicken inside, you may distinguish a slight " thud " 
against the sides of the egg. Or, still again, you may try 
f ggs from your own poultry-yard by putting them into a 
pan of cold water. The freshest sink first. Those that 
float are questionable — generally worse. 

The best plan is to break them. In making cake, or 
anything that requires more than one, break each over a 
saucer, that it may be alone in its condemnation, if bad. 
Reject doubtful ones without hesitation. Yield implicit 
trust, or none at all. 

■Keep eggs in a cool, not cold place. Pack in bran or 
Bait, with the small end downward, if you wish to use within 
two or three weeks; and furthermore, take the precaution 
k) grease them well with linseed oil, or wash thom over with 



X90S. 25S 

It weak solution of gum tragacanth or varnish. Tliis ex- 
cludes the air. Another way is to make some pretty strong 
lime-water, allowing a pound of lime to a gallon of boiling 
water. When perfectly cold, fill a large jar with, it in 
which you have packed the eggs, small end downward ; laj 
a light saucer upon the top to keep them under water, and 
keep in a cool place. Eenew the lime-water every threp 
weeks. You may add an ounce of saltpetre to it. 

Eggs for boiling may be " canned " as follows : So soon 
as they are brought in from the nests, put two or three 
dozen at a time in a deep pan ; pour scalding water over 
them ; let it stand thirty seconds, and turn it all off. Cover 
immediately with more scalding water, and repeat the pro- 
cess yet the third time. Wipe dry, and pack in bran oi 
salt when they cool. Tliis hardens the albumen into an 
air-tight case for the yolk. Of course, you cannot use these 
eggs for cake or syllabubs, or anything that is prepared 
ivith whipped eggs. Pack with the small end down. 

EoiLED Eggs. 

Put into a saucepan of boiling water with a tablespoon, 
not to break or crack them. Only a slovenly cook, or a 
careless one, drops them in with her fingers. BoU steadily 
three minutes, if you want them soft — ten, if hard. 

Another way is to put them on in cold water, and let it 
come to a boU, which will be in ten minutes. The inside, 
white and yolk, will be then of the consistency of custard. 
Many gourmands like them best thus. Still another is to 
put them in one of the silver egg-boilers used on the break- 
fast-table (a covered bowl will do as well) ; cover them 
with boiling water, and let them stand three minutea. 
Pour this off, and refill with, more, also boiling hot, and 
leave them in it five minutes longer. Wrap in a uapkic 
in a deep dish, if you have not a regular egg-dish. 



264 common sense. 

Dbopped or Poached Eggs. 

Strain some boiling water into a frying-pan, wLich must 
also bo perfectly clean. The least impurity -will mar the 
whiteness of the eggs. When the water boils, break the 
eggs separately into a saucer. Take the frying-pan off, and 
slip the eggs, one by one, carefuUj' upon the surface. When 
all are in, put back over the fire and boil gently three min- 
utes. Take out with a perforated skimmer, drain, and lay 
upon slices of buttered toast in a hot dish. Garnish with 
parsley, and dust with pepper and salt. 

Poached Eggs A la CEfeME. »J» 

Nearly fill a clean frying-pan with strained water boil- 
ing-Lot ; strain a tablespoonful of -vinegar through double 
muslin, and add to the water with a little salt. Slip your 
eggs from the saucer upon the top of the water (first tak- 
ing the pan from the fire). Boil three minutes and a half, 
drain, and lay on buttered toast in a hot dish. Turn the 
water from the pan and pour in half a cupful of cream or 
milk. If you use the latter, thicken with a very little 
corn-starch. Let it heat to a boil, stirring to prevent burn- 
ing, and add a great spoonful of butter, some pepper and 
salt. Boil up once, and pour over the eggs. A better way 
still is to heat the milk in a separate saucepan, that the 
eggs' may not have to stand. A little broth improves tha 
sauce. 

Ham and Eggs. 

Fry the eggs in a little very nice salted lard ; drain off 
every drop of grease, and lay them upon a hot dish, with 
neat slices of fried ham around the edges, half the size of 
the slice as first carved from the ham. Trim off the rough 
edges of the eggs, and cut the ham evenly in oblong pieces^ 
before dishing Garnish with parsley. • 



E608. 253 

Fried Eggs. 

Meit some butter in a frying-pan, and when it liissea. 
diiip ia tlie eggs carefully. Fry three minutes; dust witl' 
pepper and salt, and transfer to a hot dish. 

Fricasseed Eggs. ^ 

Boil the eggs hard, cut in half crosswise, and take ou 
the yolks. Chop these fine, or rub to a paste, with a littla 
ground tongue or ham or cold fowl, some minced parsley, 
some melted butter, and a verry little made mustard. Work 
well together and fill the whites with it, setting them close 
together in a deep covered dish, the open ends up. Have 
ready some veal gravy or chicken broth ; heat to boiling in 
a saucepan with a half teaspoonful chopped parsley, salt, 
pepper, and lastly three tablespoonfuls of cream to a cup 
of broth. Boil up; pour smoking hot over the eggs, let 
them stand five minutes, closely covered, and send to table. 

This is not an expensive dish. Eggs are always a 
sheaper breakfast-dish for a small family than meat, even 
at fifty cents a dozen. Sis wUl make a nice quantity of 
the fricassee, and it is_ a delicious relish. Always drop 
hard-boiled eggs into cold water as soon as they are done, 
to prevent the yolks from turning black. 

Breaded Eggs. ^ 

Boil hard, and cut in roimd thick slices. Pepper and 
salt ; dip each in beaten raw egg, then in fine bread-crumba 
or powdered cracker, and fry in nice dripping or butter, 
hissing hot. Drain off every drop of grease, and serve on 
a hot dish for breakfast, with sa-ice, like tbat for &ica8seei] 
eggs, poured over them. 



256 commoh bense. 

Baked Eggs. 

Break six or seven eggs into a buttered dish, takiug 
care that each is whole, and does not encroach npon ths 
others so much as to mix or disturb the yolks. Sprinkle 
with pepper and salt, and put a bit of butter upon each 
Put into an oven and bake antil the whites are well set. 
Serve very hot, with rounds of buttered toast, or sand 
wiches. 

SCKAMBLED EgGS. •}« 

Put a good piece of butter in a frying-pan, and when it 
is hot drop in the eggs, which should be broken whole into 
a bowl. Stir in with them a little chopped parsley, some 
pepper and salt, and keep stirring to and fro, up and down, 
without cessation, for three minutes. Turn out at once 
into a hot dish, or upon buttered toast, and eat without 
delay. 

Chinese Bird's-Nest of Eggs. 

Make' a white sauce as follows : Stew half a pound of 
lean veal, cut iuto strips, with a large sprig of parsley, in a 
quart of water, until the meat is in rags, and the liquor 
reduced one-half. Strain through tarlatan or lace, and 
return to the saucepan with half a cupful of milk. When 
it boils, thicken with a little rice or wheat flour, season 
with white pepper and salt, and the juice of half a lemOn. 
Set in the corner to keep hot. Have ready six, or eight, 
or ten hard-boiled eggs. Take out the yolks carefully, and 
cut the whites into thru shreds. Pile the yolks in the cen- 
tre of a round, shallow dish, arrange the shreds of white 
fcbout them in the shape of a bird's-nest ; give a final stii 
to the sauce, and pour carefully over the eggs. It should 
not rise higher in the dish than half way to the top of the 
nest, when it flows down to its leveL Garnish with para 
ley. 



KGGS. 257 

Scalloped Eggs. ^ 

Make a force-meat of chopped ham — grounil is better — 
fine bread-crumbs, pepper, salt, a little minced parsley, and 
som^e melted butter. Moisten with milk to a soft paste, 
and half fill some patty-pans or scallop-shells with the mix- 
ture. Break an egg carefuUy upon the top of each, dust 
with pepper and salt, and sift some very finely powdered 
cracker over all. Set in the oven, and bake until the eggs 
are wdl set — about eight minuteS. Eat hot. They are 
vary nice. You can substitute ground tongue for the ham, 

Poached Eggs, with Sauce. >^ 

Make the sauce by putting half a cupful of hot water 
in a saucepan, with a teaspoonful of lemon-juice, three 
tablespoonfuls of veal or chicken broth (strained), pepper, 
salt, mace, and a tablespoonful of butter, with a little 
minced parsley. Boil slowly ten minutes, and stir in a 
well-whipped egg carefully, lest it should curdle. Have 
ready some poached eggs in a deep dish, and pour the sauce 
over them. 

Eggs upon Toast. ^ 

Put a good lump of butter into the frying-pan. When 
it is hot, stir in four or five well-beaten eggs, with peppei, 
salt, and a little parsley. Stir and toss for three minutes. 
Have ready to your hand some slices of buttered toast (cut 
round with a tin cake-cutter before they are toasted) ; 
spread thickly with ground or minced tongue, chicken, or 
ham^ Heap the stirred egg upon these in mounds, and sel 
'n a bat dish garnished with parsley and pickled beets. 

Eggs au Lit {i/n bed). »{• 

Minoe some cold fowl — chicken, turkey, or duck (oi 
Bome cold boiled veal and ham in equal qiiintitieB) — veij 



258 



COMMON SENSE. 



fine, and rub in a Wedgewood mortar, adding by degreei 
some melted butter, pepper, salt, minced parsley, and two 
beaten eggs. Warm in a frying-pan when it is well mixedj 
stirring in a little hot water should it dry too fast. Cook 
five minutes, stirring to keep it from scorching or brown- 
ing. Form, on a hot platter or flat dish, into a mound, flat 
on top, with a ridge of the mixture running all aroimd. It 
is easily moulded with a broad-bladed knife. In the dish 
thus formed, on the top of the mince-meat, lay as many 
poached eggs as it will hold, sprinkling them with pepper 
and salt. Arrange triangles of buttered toast in such 
>rder, at the base of the mound, that they shall make a 
i>ointed wall against it. 

Devilled Eggs. 

Boil six or eight eggs hard ; leave in cold water until 
Ihey are cold ; cut in halves, slicing a bit oflT the bottoms 
«© make them stand upright, a la Columbus. Extract the 
volks, and rub to a smooth paste with a very little melted 
butter, some cayenne pepper, a touch of miistard, and just 
a dash of vinegar. Fill the hollowed whites with this, and 
send to table upon a bed of chopped cresses, seasoned with 
pepper, salt, vinegar, and a little sugar. The salad should 
be two inches thick, and an egg be served with a heaping 
tablespoonful of it. You may use lettuce or white cab- 
bage instead of cresses. 

Egg-Baskets. •{* 

Make these for breakfast the day after you have had 
roast chicken, duck, or turkey for dinner. Boil six egga 
hard, cut neatly in half and extract the yolks. Hub these 
to a paste -with some melted butter, pepper and salt, 
tad Bet aside. Pound the minced meat of the cold fow! 



£0O8. 259 

fiae in the same maimer and mix with the egg-paste, moist 
ening with melted butter as you proceed, or with a little 
gravy, if you have it to spare. Cut off a slice from the 
bottoms of the hollowed whites of the egg, to make them 
stand ; fill with the paste ; arrange close together upon a 
flat dish, and pour over them the gravy left from yester- 
day's roast, heated boiling hot, and mellowed by a few 
epoonfuls of cream or rich milk. 

Omelette (plain). »}« 

Eeat six eggs very light, the whites to a stiff froth that 
will stand alone, the yolks to a smooth thick batter. Add to 
the yolks a small cupful of milk, pepper and salt, lastly stir 
in the whites lightly. Have ready in a hot frying-pan a good 
wmp of butter. When it hisses, pour in your mixture gen- 
ily and set over a clear fire. It should cook in ten minutea 
at most. Do not stir, but contrive, as the eggs " set," to 
slip a broad-bladed knife under the omelette to guard against 
burning at the bottom. The instant " hiss " of the butter 
as it flows to the hottest part of the pan will prove the wis- 
dom and efficacy of the precaution. If your oven is hot, 
yoii may put the frying-pan in it as soon as the middle of 
the omelette is set. When done, lay a hot dish bottom up- 
ward on the top of the pan, and dexterously upset the latter 
to bring the browned side of the omelette uppermost. Eat 
soon, or it wiU fall. 

I know these directions to be worthy of note. I have 
never seen lighter or better omelettes anywhere thaji in 
hoTisebolds where these have been the rule for years in the 
maaufacture of this simple and delightful article of foci. 

Omelette with Ham, Tonoue, or Chicken. »J« 

Make precisely as above ; bat when it is done, scatter 
thickly over the surface some minced ham, tongue, cr sea 



2C0 COMMON SENSE. 

Goned chicken, slip your broad knife under one side of thi 
omelette and double in^lialf, enclosing the meat. Then up 
set the frying-pan upon a hot dish. 

Or, 

You can stir the minced meat into the omelette aftei 
all the ingi-edients are put together, adding, if you lik(% 
gome chopped parsley. 

Cauliflower Omelette. 

Chop some cold cauliflower very fine, and mix in when 
your omelette is ready to go into the pan. Season highly 
with cayenne pepper and salt. 

Asparagus Omelette 

Is made of the tops only, minced and seasoned, and stirred 
in as is the cauliflower. Tomato omelette has stewed 
tomato spread over the surface, and is then doubled in 
half. 

Egg-balls fob Soup, i^ 

Rub the yolks of three or four hard-boiled eggs to a 
smooth paste with a very little melted butter, pepper, and 
salt. To. these add two raw ones, beaten li^ht, and enough 
flour to hold the paste together. M)).).e into balls with 
floured hands and set in a cool place ur.til just before your 
soup comes off, when put in carefully a ad boil one minute. 

Omelette aux Fines Beebes. 

After the yolks and whites are mixed together with thi 
milk, stir in, with two or three strokes of the spoon oi 
whisk, two tablespoonfizls of chopped parslej , green thyme, 
Knd sweet marjoram, with pepper and salt, ifry instantlj 



sweet omelettes. 261 

Cheese Omelette. 

Grate some rich old cheese, and having mixed the on.e 
lotte as usual, stir in the cheese with a swift turn or two 
of tko whLsk, and at the same time some chopped parslej 
»nd tbyiae. If you beat long the cheese will separate th« 
Bulk trom the eggs. Cook at once. 

Sweet Omelettes. 

Omelette Soufflee — {Fried). 

6 eggs. 

4 tablespoonfuls sugar (powdered). 

1 teaspoonful of vanilla. 

2 tablespoonfuls butter. 

Beai ihe whites and yolks separately. Add the sugai 
to the yolks, a little at a time, beating very thoroughly, 
nntU they are smooth and thick. The whites should stand 
nlone. Put two tablespoonfuls of butter iu a fryiug-pan, 
heat to boiling, and when you have added the vanilla to 
the omelette, pour it iu and cook very quickly, as you 
would a plain one. Slip the knife frequently under it, to 
loosen from the sides and bottom. It is more apt to scorch 
than an omelette without sugar. Turn out upon a very 
not dish, sift powdered sugar over the top, and serve iu 
Btantly, or it will faU and become heavy 

Omelette Soufflee — (JBdked). 

6 eggs. 

6 tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar. 

Juice of a lemon and half the peel, grated. 

Beat yolks and whites separately and very well. Add 
to the yolks by degrees the powdered sugar, and beat until 
't ceases to froth, and is thick and smooth. The whitei 



262 COMMON SENSE. 

Bhculd be stiff enough to cut with a knife. Stir togethei 
lightly with the seasoning, pour into a well-buttered dish, 
and bake in a quick oven five or six minutes. Tho disk 
should be warmed when it is buttered, not to chill the 
eggs. Send around with a spoon, and let each one helj 
himself before it can fall, 

(Apple Omelette^ »J« 

6 large pippins. 

1 tablespoonful butter. 

3 eggs. 

5 or 6 tablespoonfuls sugar. 

Nutmeg to taste. 

1 teaspoonful rosewater. 

Btew.the apples, when you have pared and cored thorn, 
as for apple-sauce. Beat them very smooth while hot, ad 
ding the butter, sugar, and nutmeg. When perfectly cold, 
put with the eggs, which should be whipped light, yolks 
and whites separately. Put in the yolks first, then the 
rosewater, lastly the whites, and pour into a deep bak^ 
dish, which has been warmed and buttered. Bake in a 
moderate oven until it is delicately browned. Eat warns 
■ — ^not hot — for tea, with Graham bread. It is better foi 
ihildren — I say nothing of their elders — ^than cake and pr& 
serves. 

VOmelette with Jelly^ 

Ciirrant or other tart jelly. 

Five eggs. 

4 tablespoonfuls cream, or the same of milk, thick- 
ened with a teaspoonful of rice-fiour or arrow 
root. 

2 tablespoonfuls powdered sugar. 

1 teaspoonful bitter almond or vanilla flavoiing. 



MILK, BUTl'EE, CHEESE. ETC. '2C>3 

Beat whites and yolks separately, adding to tlie lattei 
the sugar and milk after they are thick and smooth. Next, 
choj) in the seasoning ; lastly, stir in the whites with a few 
Bwift strokes. Put a large spoonful of butter in the ft7- 
ing-pan, and, when it is hot, pour in the omelette. Spread 
upon it when done, which will be in a very few minutes, 
some nice jelly. Take the pan from the fire to do this, 
spread quickly, slip your knife or tin spatula under one- 
half of the omelette, and double it over. Turn over on a 
hot platter, sift powdered sugar upon it, and eat at once. 

Milk, Buttbr, Cheese, etc. 

A cool cellar is the De»t place in which to keep milk, 
if you have no dairy or milk-room. Straia it into broad 
shallow pans, which are lukewarm from recent scalding. 
You can get them made in one piece, with no. seams in 
which sour cream or dirt may lurk unsuspected. Set upou 
swing shelves, to avoid the possibilities of drowned mice, 
and keep the cellar dark to save it from flies. In twelve 
hours skim for the table, and, unless you have need of the 
milk, let it stand twelve hours more for the second rising 
of cream. Put this into the stone jar or crock in which 
the cream is kept for churning. Even in butter-making, I 
have found it a good plan to take off at night the creani 
clean from the morning churning, instead of letting it stand 
twenty-four hours, as is the usual custom. The " second 
rising " will repay one for the additional trouble. Churn 
as soon as convenient after the cream " loppers " or thick- 
8»xa. If it stand too long, it becomes bitter or ma-Aj. The 
churn should be well scalded and aired between the churn- 
Ings, Scrupulous cleanliness should be the unbending rule 
of dairy arrangements. All strongly-flavored substances 
must be kept from the neighborhood of milk and butter. 
They are ready absorbents, and when they contract odor oj 



264 COMMON SENSi 

taste, never get rid of it. Have earthan and tin milk-vea . 
sels, and never allow them to be put to any other use. 

Scald the churn, and cool with ice or spring water ; 
pour in the thick cream. Churn rather fast, until the but- 
ter-flakes, left by the dasher upon the top, show that the 
end to be gained is near — then more slowly. The motion 
should always be regular. In warm weather pour a little 
cold water into the churn, should the butter come slowly. 
Take it up with the perforated dasher, turning it dexter- 
ously just below the surface of the butter-milk, to catch 
every stray bit. Have ready some clean, very cold water, 
in a deep wooden tray,' and into this plunge the dasher 
rhen you draw it from the churn. The butter wUl float 
Vff, leaving the dasher free. Having collected every par- 
licle, gather behind a wooden butter-shovel and drain off 
the waterj squeezing and pressing the butter with the shovel. 
Set in a cool place for an hour to harden — a necessary meas- 
ure in summer — then work and knead it with a wooden ladle 
^altil hot another drop of water exudes, and the butter is like 
yellow marble in polish and closeness of pores. When you 
nave worked out the butter-milk, add by degrees fine salt, 
111 the proportion of a dessertspoonful to every pound. 
I'hen set aside for some hours, always in a cool place. The 
last working is a slight affair, comparatively. Still using 
the paddle, and never, from beginning, to end of the opera- 
tion, touching with your hands, mould into rolls or pound 
" pats." Mark with grooves or checkers with the ladle, 
or stamp with a print. Wrap each roU in a clean wet 
linen cloth, which has no touch of soap or starch about it, 
and pack in a stone jar, sprinkling a little salt between the 
layers. 

If you wish to keep it a long time, work with especial 
care, and pack down ha/rd in a perfectly clean stone jar. 
Do nol, above all things, take one that has ever been usetf 



MILE. BtlTTEB, OHEESE, ETC. 265 

for pickles. You may not detect the faintest odor linger- 
ing about it, but the butter will, and absorb it, too. Some 
cover the butter with strong brine, but a better way is to 
press a fine linen cloth closely to the surface, and cover 
this with a thick layer of clean fine salt. Set in a cool, 
dry place, and keep the cloth over it all the time ; also a 
tightly-fitting Hd. Wlien you begin to use it, take out 
enough to last a week, and re-cover. If you admit the air 
every day, it is apt to grow strong. A pretty plate of but- 
ter for the table is made of balls half the size of an egg, 
rolled in the little fluted paddles sold for the purpose. 

Bonny-Clabber, or Loppered Milk. •{« 

Set a china or glass dish of skimmed milk away in a 
warm place, covered. When it turns — i. e., becomes a 
smooth, firm, but not tough cake, like blanc-mange — serve 
in the same d^. Cut out carefully with a large spoon, 
and put in saucers, with cream, powdered sugar, aud nut- 
meg to taste. It is bettei', if set on the ice for an hour be- 
fore it is brought to table. Do not let it stand until the 
whey separates from the curd. 

Few people know how delicious this healthful and cheap 
dessert can be made, if eaten before it becomes tart and 
tough, with a liberal allowance of cream and sugar. There 
are not many jellies and creams superior to it. 

Rennet. 

Clean the stomach of a calf (or have your butcher do 
it tor you) so soon as it is killed, scouring inside and out 
with salt. When perfectly clean, tack upon a frame to dry 
in the sun for a day. Cut in squares, and pack down in 
salt, or keep in wine or brandy. When you wish to use 
flie salted, soak half an hour in cold water, wash well, and 
12 



266 OOMHON BKNSB. 

put into the milk i o be turned, tied to a string, that il 'naj 
be drawn out without breaking the ou--d. The liqaor tertr 
net sold by druggists is sometimes good, quite as often 
w^orthless. You can, however, get the dried or salted in 
iba markets, and often in the drug-stores. 

Mountain Custakd, or Junket. »J« 

Take a piece of rennet an inch long, or a teaspoonful 
of the wine in which rennet is kept, to each quart of milk. 
Season with vanilla or lemon, a little nutmeg, and a table- 
spoonful of sugar to each quart. More wiU retard the 
formation. Set in a warm place — near .the fire, or on the 
kitchen table — closely covered. Look at it from time to 
time, and if, in the course of an hour, there are no signs 
of stiffening, add more rennet. When it is firm, like blano 
mange, and before the whey separates from the curd, re- 
move the rennet, and set upon ice until it is wanted. Servt 
with powdered sugar and cream. 

Thickened Milk. 

Boil a quart of -milk, add a very little salt, and two 
tablespoonfuls of ricS" or wheat flour wet in cold milk. 
Stir in smoothly, and let it thicken in a vessel of boilin|( 
water, keeping the outer saucepan at a hard boil for half 
an hour. Eat with butter and supar, or with cream and 
Bugar. For invalids, or children who are suffering with 
Bvmmer disorders, boil at least an hour, stirring very often. 

Cheese. 

I have doubted the utility of inserting a receipt for 
TBgular cUftese-making. The apparatus necessary for the 
manufacture is seldom, if ever, found in a private family. 
while cheese can be had in every country store at one-third 
the exjwnse to an amateur of making it. But, remenil^er 



MILS, BUTTEB, CHEESE, ETC. 261 

ing that ii may be a pleasant, if not profitable expermieni^ 
for the inisti ess of many cows to make at her odd moments, 
'' have secured what purports to be an exact descriptiou of 
" cheese-maJdng on a small scale." 

To each gallon of mi]\^ warm from the cow, add a piece of 
rennet six inches long and three wide, or two tablespoonful* 
reniiet water — i. e., water in which rennet has been boiled. 
Cover, and set in a warm place until it becomes a firm curd ; 
this should be, at the most, not more than three-quarters of 
an hoar. When the whey has separated entirely, and looks 
clear and greenish, wash your "hands very clean, and with 
them gently press all the curd to one side of the pan or tub, 
while an assistant dips out the whey. Have ready a stout 
linen bag, pour the curd into it, and hang it up to dry 
until not another drop of whey can be pressed cat ; then 
put the curd into a wooden dish, and chop it fine. Empty 
into a finer bag, and put into a small cheese-box, or other 
circular wooden box with a perforated bottom, and a lid 
that slides down easily but closely on the inside. Your 
bag should be as nearly as possible the 5d.me shape and 
size as this box. Lay heavy weights upon the top, in lack 
of a cheese-press, and let it stand an hour. The clot)' 
should be wet inside as well as out, before you put th« 
curds in. At the end of the hour, take out the cheesi> 
and chop again, adding salt this time. Have ready a fresh 
wet cloth ; pack in the curd hard. There should be a cir- 
cular cover for this bag, which must be basted all around, 
and very smooth on top. Scald the box and cover, then 
rinse with cold water, and put tne cheese again under 
press for twelve hours. Next day, thie it out, rub alt 
over with salt, and fit on a clean wet cloth. Look at it 
iixteon hours later, pare off the rougn edges, and scrape 
the sides of inequalities before returning to the press for 
the last time. Let it remain under the weights for twenty 



268 OOMUGXI SENBB. 

four houjB. Strip off the cloth, rub the cheese well witfc 
butter, and lay upon a clean cloth spread on a shelf in a 
cool, dry place. A wire safe is best. "Wipe clean ; then 
rub every day with butter for a week, and turn also ovbrj 
twenty-four hours. At the end of the week, omit the 
greasing, and rub hard with a coarse cloth. Do this every 
day for a month. Your cheese will then be eatable, but 
it win be much finer six months later. 

Stilton cheeses — renowned over the world — are buried 
in dry heather when they are firm enough to remove from 
the shelves, and kept there a month. This is called 
" ripening." 

Cottage Cheese. 

Heat sour milk until the whey rises to the top. Pour 
it off, put the curd in a bag and let it drip six hours, with- 
out squeezing it. Put in a wooden bowl, chop fine with a 
wooden spoon, salt to taste, and work to the consistency of 
Boft putty, adding a little cream and butter as you pro- 
ceed. Mould with your hands into round " pats " or balls, 
oad keep in a cool place. It is best when fresh. 

Creaai Cheese. 

Stir a little salt into a pan of " loppered " cream. Pour 
Into a linen bag, and let it drain three days, changing the 
bag every day. Then pack into a wooden cup or mould 
with holes in the bottom, and press two hours. "Wet the 
mould with cold water before putting in the cream-curd, 
Wrapped in soft white paper — two or three folds of tissue- 
paper wiU do — to exclude the air, they will keep in a 
wol place for a week. 

This is the cheese sold in !hifl country under the nam* 
of Neu/chatd 



BSKil). 



BEEAD. 



If eminence of importance entitled a subje>jt to preciiii 
cence of position, tliat of which -we are now about to speak 
Bhonld have stood foremost in this work. It is not a pleas- 
ant thing to think or write about, but it is a stubborn fact 
that upon thousands of tables, in otherwise oomfortablp 
homes, good bread is an unknown phenomenon. I say pVie 
uomenon, because it would indeed be a marvellous estrange- 
ment of cause and effect were indifferent flour, unskilfuUj 
mixed with flat yeast, badly risen and negligently baked, to 
result in that pride of the notable housekeeper — light, sweet, 
wholesome bread. I know a household where sour, stifl 
bread is the rule, varied several times during the week by 
muffins scented and colored with soda, clammy biscuit, and 
leathery griddle-cakes ; another, where the bread is inva- 
riably over-risen, and consequently tasteless, sometimes 
slightly acid ; yet another in which home-made bread is not 
used at all, because it is " so troublesome and uncertain," 
the mistress preferring to feed her family, growing children 
. and all, upon the vari-colored sponges bought at the bakers 
— sponges inflated with sal volatile, flavorless, and dry aa 
chips when a day old, and too often betraying, in the dark 
streaks running through the interior of the loaf, want oi 
cleanliness in the kneader. Yet these are all well-to-do 
people, who submit to these abominations partly because 
■.hey do not know how badly off they are — chiefly because 
it is their way of doing, and they see no reason for chang- 
ing. " I have been a housekeeper for thirty years, and have 
always mixed my bread just so," retorted a mistress once, 
when I mildly set forth the advantages of " setting a sponge" 
over-night. "I put in flour, yeast, and milk if I have it, 
und give them a good stir ; then set the dough down to risa 
Our folks don't fancy very light bread. Thcie don't soea 



270 COMMON SENSE. 

to be any substance in it — so to speak. Mine generallj 
turns Dut pi'etty nice. It's all luck, after all, about bread." 

" I'm tfld you have a receipt fjv making bread," laugb 
ed another to me; "I never heard of such a thing in nij 
life> and I've been keeping house eightecai years. So 1 
thought I'd call and ask you fot it — just as a cuiiosity, 
yon know. I want to see what it is like." 

I wisely kept my thoughts to myself, and dictated the 
receipt, which sjie jotted down in a memorandum-booki 
laughint; all the while at the " excellent joke." 

" YoH really use this ? '' she demanded, when this wan 
done. 

" I do. I have used no other for many yea,rs." 

" And the bread I ate upon your table, the other night, 
was m<ide according to this? " 

Again an affirmative answer. 

" I guess your cook could tell another story," rejoined 
the skeptic. " You can't make me believe that bread is 
made by rule. I put my materials together anyhow, and I 
have as good luck as most of my neighbors." 

I regarded my visitor as an importinent simpleton ; but 
I have been amazed, in subsequent years, at finding that her 
creed is that of hundreds of housewives more or less sensi- 
ble. " Luck " rules the baking, and upon the shoulders of 
this Invisible are laid the deficiencies of the complacent 
cook. Cheap flour and laziness are at the bottom of mors 
mishaps in the bread line than any other combination of 
oircumstances. From the inferior grades of flour, it is [ os- 
Bible to make tolerable biscuit, crumpets, and muffins, plain 
pastry, and very good griddle-cakes. You cannot, by any 
itress pf art, produce excellent bread from poor flour. li 
b no economy to purchase it for this purpose. It ts judici 
0U8 to lay in two barrels at a time, and to use the best onl? 
fo: the semi- or tri-weekly bakiug. 



BREAD. 271 

Chisfest then among the conditions to good bread, J 
place good " family " flotir — dry, elastic, and odorlesa 
Whiteness is a secondary consideration, although, to Ameri- 
can eyes, this is a recommendation. A little experieno* 
will teach you to detect the signs that foretell satisfactory 
baking-days, and vice versd. If in handling the flour you 
discern a heaviness Uke that of ground plaster ; if in squeez 
ing a handful tightly you discover that it retains the im 
print of palm and iingers, and rolls back into the tray a 
compact ball or roll ; if it is in the least musty, or sour, 
use it very sparingly in your trial-baking, for the chancea 
are as ten to one that you will head the barrel up again 
*nd return it to your grocer. 

Sometimes new flour can be ripened for use by sifting 
•inough for each baking into a large tray, and exposing it to 
'he hot sun for some hours, or by setting it upon the kitch- 
f!n hearth for the same time. And it not unfrequently hap- 
j)ens that flour improves greatly after the barrel has been 
iypen for several days or weeks. It dries out and becomea 
lighter, more elastic. Next in importance to the qiiality 
of the flour is that of the yeast. This should be light in 
color and lively, effervescing easily when shaken, and emit- 
ting an odor like weak ammonia. If dull or sour, it is bad. 
In cities, it is easiest, perhaps cheapest, to buy yeast from 
a brewery or bakery, exercising your discrimination as to 
qucility ; unless yOu can satisfy yourself in this regard, you 
had better make your own. I can confidently recommend 
the receipts given in this work as easy and safe, having 
tried them in my own family. 

Novices in bread-making, and many who should havflj 
learned better by long experience, fall into a sad mistake 
in the consistency of the dough. It should be mixed as 
toft us it can be handled. Bread will rise Booner and high- 
»r be lighter and more digestible, and keep fresh much 



272 COMMON SENSE. 

longer, if this rule be followed. Stiff bread is close in tex 
ture, often waxy to the teeth, and after a day or so become! 
very hard. 

Set the dough to rise in. a moderately ■warm place, and 
keep it at an even temperature. There is force in the eld 
lament — " My bread took cold, last night." Cold arreafc* 
the process of fermentation. There is a chance, should thia 
occur, that a removal to a more genial atmosphere and car<>- 
ful nursing may cure the congestion, should it be only par- 
tial. Too much heat carries forward the work too rapi.lly. 
In this case, you wiU find your dough puffy and sour. Cor- 
rect the latter evil by dissolving a little soda or saleratua 
in hot water, and working it well in. 

Knead your bread faithfully and from aU sides, until 
it rebounds like india-rubber after a smart blow of the fist 
upon the centre of the mass. 

The oven should not be .too hot. If you cannot hold 
your bare arm within it while you count thirty, it is too 
quick. Keep the heat steady after the bread goes in. Too 
much fire at first, and rapid cooling, produce the effect upon 
the bread which is technically called " slack-baked," i. e., 
the inside of the loaf is never properly done. Practice and 
intelligent observation will, in time, make' you an adept 
in the management of your ovens. If the bread rises rapid- 
ly while baking, and the crust begins to form before the 
lower part of the loaf is baked, cover the top with clean 
paper until you are ready to brown it. 

Grate away the burned portions of the crust, should 
there be such. This is better than chipping with a knife. 
One of the best bread-makers I know bakes in round pans, 
each loaf by itself, and grates the whole outer surface, top, 
bottom, and sides, quickly and lightly, toning down tha 
brown to a uniform and pleasing tint. Tilt your loaves 
upon the edge, tlie lower part resting upon the table, tLe 



BB£AL. 273 

I Pier supported by the wall or other tpright nbje^t, and 
fchrov a coarse dry cloth over them until they cooL 
This position allows the air to get at all sides, and prevent* 
" sweating." A tin bread-box is best, with a cloth at bol 
torn and enwrapping the loaves. 

Yeast {Hop). »{• 

4 large potatoes, or six small. 
2 quarts col J water. 
Double-handful hops, tied in a coarse 

muslin bag. 
4 tablespoonfuls flour. 
2 white sugar. 

Peel the potatoes, and put them with the hop-bag into 
a saucepan containing two quarts cold water. Cover and 
boil until the potatoes break and fall apart. Take these 
out with a perforated skim.mer, leaving the water still boil- 
ing, mash them fine with a potato-beetle, and work in the 
flour and sugar. Moisten this gradually with the boiling 
hop tea, stiiTing it to a smooth paste. When all the tea 
has been mixed in, set it aside to cool. While still slightly 
warm, add four tablespoonfuls of lively yeast, and turn all 
into a large open vessel to " work." Keep this in a warm 
place until it ceases to bubble up, or until next day. In 
summer it will work well in a few hours. When quite 
light, put in earthen jars with small mouths, in which fit 
corks, or bottle it, and remove to ice-house or cellar. It 
will keep good for a fortnight — longer in winter. 

When you wish to use it for baking, send a smsLU vessei 
to the cellar for the desired quantity, and re-eo»-k at "once 
A half-1 our in a hot kitchen may spoil it. 
12* 



374 COSQKN 8ENSB. 

yEAST {Self-working) 
8 potatoes. 
2 oimces hops. 
4 quarts cold water. 
1 lb. flour. 
J lb. ■white sugar. 
1 tablespoonfiil salt. 

Tie tue hops iu a coarse muslia bag, and boil one hom 
in four quarts of water. Let it cool to lukewanoness be- 
fore removing the bag. Wet with the tepid liquor — a Uttla 
at a time — the flour, making to a smooth paste. Put in 
ths sugar and salt, beat up the batter three minutes before 
adding the rest of the tea. Set it away for two days in an 
open bowl covered with a thin cloth, in a closet which ia 
moderately and evenly warm. 

On the third day, peel, boil, and mash the potatops, and 
when entirely free from lumps and specks, stir in grad- 
"laUy the thickened hop-liquor. Let it stand twelve hours 
longer in the bowl, stirring often, and keeping it in the 
warm kitchen. Then bottle or put away in corked jars, 
which must be perfectly sweet and freshly scalded. This 
will keep a month in a cool cellar. It is more troublesome 
to make it than other kinds of yeast, but it needs no other 
" rising " to excite fermentation, and remains good longej 
fclian that made in the usual way. 

Yeast {Potato). <^ 

6 potatoes. 

2 quarts cold water. 

4 tablespoonfuls flour. 

2 " white sugar. 

Peel and boil the potatoes nntU they break. Leaving 
taa water on the fire, take them out and mash fine with the 



BEEAD. 27? 

fiour and sugar, wetting gradually -with the hot water until it 
is all ufied. When lukewarm, add a gill of good yeast, and 
Bet aside in an open vessel and warm place to ferment 
When it ceases to effervesce, bottle and set in ice-house. 

This yeast is very nice and white, and is preferred bt 
laany who disKke the bitter taste of hops. It is also con 
renient to make when hops cannot be obtained. 

Yeast Cakes. »{« 

2 quarts water (cold). 

1 quart pared and sliced potatoes. 

Double-handful hops, tied in coarse muslin bag. 

Flour to make stiff batter. 

1 cup Indian meal. 

Boil the potatoes and hop-bag in two quarts of water 
for three-quarters of an hour. Remove the hops, and while 
boiling hot, strain the potatoes and water through a cullen- 
der into a bowl. Stir into the scalding liquor enough floui 
to make a stiff batter. Beat all up well ; add two table- 
Bpoonfuls lively yeast and set in a warm place to rise. 
When light, stir in a cup of Indian meal, roll into a sheet 
a quarter of an inch thick and cut into round cakes. Dry 
these in the hot sun or in a v&ry moderate oven, taking 
care they do not heat to baking. It is best to put them in 
after the fire has gone down for the night, and leave them 
tn until morning. "When entirely dry and cold, hang them 
ajj in a bag in a cool, dry place. 

Use one cake three inches in diameter for a loaf of fair 
Hze ; soak in tepid water until soft, and add a pinch of soda 
01 saleratus, then mix. 

These cakes wiU remain good a month in sommer, two 
tn winter. 



276 common senbb. 

Baking Powders. 
1 otmce super-carbonate soda. 
7 draclims tartaric acid. 

Soil smoothly and mix thoroughly. Keep in a tight 
' glass jai or bottle. Use one teaspoonful to a quart of floiir, 

Or, 

12 teaspoonfuls carb. soda. 
24 " cream tartar. 

Put as above, and use in like proportion. 

Bread Sponge {^Potato). »J* 
6 potatoes, boiled and mashed fine while hot 
6 tablespoonfuls baker's yeast. 
2 " white sugar. 

2 « lard. 
1 teaspoonful soda. 

1 quart warm — not hot — water. 

3 cups flour. 

Mash the potatoes, and work in the lard an-» engar. 
Stir to a cream, mixing in gradually a quart of tw water 
in which the potatoes were boUed, which should L*-c-e been 
poured out to cool down to blood warmth. JB^t in the 
flour, already wet up with a little potato-water to prevent 
lumping, then the yeast, lastly the soda. Cover lightly ii 
the weather is warm, more closely in winter, and wet to !*«« 
iver night in a warm place. 

Bread' Sponge {Plain). J^ 

1 quart warm water. 

6 tablespoonfuls baker's yeast, 

2 " lard. 

2 " white su|;ar. 



BB£AD. 871 

1 teaspoonful soda. 

Flour to make a soft battel. 

Melt the Lard in the warm water, add the sugar, then th« 
flour by degrees, stirring in smoothly. A quart and a pint 
of flour will usually be sufficient if the quality is good. 
Next comes the yeast, lastly the soda. Beat up hard for 
several minutes, and set to rise as above. 

Bread mixed with potato-sponge is more nutritious, 
keeps fresh longer, and is sweeter than that made with the 
plainer sponge. But there are certain ■seasons of the year 
when good old potatoes cannot be procured, and new ones 
will not do for this purpose. 

The potato-sponge is safer, because surer for beginners 
in the important art of bread-making. After using it for 
fifteen years, I regard it as almost infallible — given the 
conditions of good flour, yeast, kneading, and baking. 

Family Bbead ( White). »J" 

Having set your sponge over night, or, if you bake late 
in the afternoon, early in the morning, sift dry flour into a 
deep bread-tray, and strew a few spoonfuls of fine salt over 
it. The question of the quantity of flour is a delicate one, 
requiring judgment and experience. Yarious brands of 
flour are so unequal with respect to the quantity of gluten 
they contain, that it is impossible to give any invariable mile 
on this subject. It will be safe, however, to sift two quarts 
and a pint, if you have set the potato sponge ; two quarts for 
the plain. This will make two good-sized loaves. Make a 
hole in the middle of the heap, pour in the risen sponge 
(which should be very light and seamed in many places op 
the top), and work down the flour into it with your hands. 
If too soft, add more flour. If you can mould it at all, it 
b not too soft. If stiff", rinse out the bowl in which th* 



278 



COMMON SENSE. 



sponge was set with a little lukewarm water, and work tLi« 
in. "When you have it in manageable shape, begin to knead 
Work the mass into a ball — your hands having, been weL 
floured from the first ; detach it from the tray, and lift it 
in your left hand, wliile you sprinkle flour with the righl 
thickly over the bottom and sides of the tray. Toss back 
the ball into this, and knead hard — always toward the 
centre of the mass, which should be repeatedly turned ovei 
and aroimd, that every portion may be manipulated. Brisk 
and long kneading makes the pores fine and regular. Gap- 
Lug holes of diverse sizes are an imerriag tell-tale of a care- 
less cook. Spend at least twenty minutes — half an hour ii 
better — ^in this kind of useful gymnastics. It is grand ex- 
ercise for arms and chest. This done, work the dough into 
a shapely ball in the centre of the tray, sprinkle flour over 
the top ; throw a cloth over all and leave it on the kitchen- 
table to rise, taking care it is not in a draught of cold air. 
In summer, it will rise in four or five houi's — ^in winter, six 
are often necessaiy. It should come up steadily until it at 
least trebles its original bulk and the floured surface cracks 
all over. Knead again for ten or fifteen minutes. Then, 
divide it into as many parts as you wish loaves, and put 
these in well-greased pans for the final rising. In a large 
household baking, it is customary to mould the dough into 
oblong rolls, three or four, according to the number of 
loaves you desire, and to lay these close together in one 
large pan. The second kneading is done upon a floured 
board, and should be thorough as the first, the dough being 
continually shifted and tvirned. Set the pans in a warm 
place for an hour longer, -witTn a cloth thrown over them to 
keep out the air and dust. Then bake, heeding the direc- 
tions set down in the article upon bread in general. If your 
ovens are in good condition, one hour should bake the aboVa 
•juantitj- of bread. But here again experience must b« 



BEEAE 27^ 

four guile. Note carefully for yourself how long a time 
is required for your first successful baking, as also hovi 
much dry flour you have worked into your sponge, and lei 
these data regulate future action. I have known a varia- 
tion of two quarts in a large baking, over the usual measure 
of flour. I need not teU you that you had better shun % 
brand that requires such an excessive quantity to bring the 
dough to the right consistency. It is neither nutritious nor 
economical. When you make out the loaves, prick the top 
with a fork. 

Do not make your first baking too large. Practice ia 
requisite, to the management of an unwieldy mass of dough. 
Let your trial-loaf be with say half the quantity of sponge 
and flour I have set down, and increase these as skill and 
occasion require, carefully preserving the proportions. Seven 
or eight quarts of flour will be needed for the semi-weekly 
baking of a family of moderate size. 

If I have seemed needlessly minute in the directions 1 
have laid down, it is because I wish to be a guide, not a 
t»etrayer, and because I am deeply impressed with the worth 
of such advice as may tend to diminish the number of those 
who know not for themselves the comfort and deUght of 
eAting fco" A day to day, and year to year, good femily bread. 

Family Bread {JBrovm). ►}« 

I wish it were in my power, by much and earnest 
aj^eaking and writing, to induce every housekeeper to 
make brown bread — that is, bread made of xmbolted, usu- 
allj called Graham flour — a staple article of diet in her fam- 
ily. I only repeat the declaration of a majority of our best 
oliemists and physicians when I say that our Ameiican 
fondness for fine white bread is a serious injury to our 
health. We bolt and rebolt our flour QntU we extract 
t-om it tl>re8-quarters of its nutritive qualities, leavinf 



280 COMMON BBNSE. 

little itrengtt in it except what lies in gluten or Htarch, 
and consign that which makes bone and tissue, which regu 
lates the digestive organs, and leaves the blood pui-e, th« 
braiu clear, to the lower animals. Growing children c-s- 
pecially should eat brown bread daily. It supplies the 
kueded phosphate to the tender teeth and bones. If prop- 
erly made, it soon commends itself to their taste, and white 
becomes insipid in comparison. Dyspeptics have long been 
familiar with its dietetic virtues, and, were the use of it 
more general, we should have fewer wretches to mourn 
over the destroyed coats of their stomachs. Jt is whole- 
some, sweet, honest, and should be popular. 

Prepare a sponge as for white bread, using potatoes 
or white flour. My rule is to take out a certain quantity 
of the risen sponge on baking day, and set aside for brown 
bread. Put into a tray two parts Graham flour, one-third 
white, and to every quart of this allow a handful of Ii^'lian 
meal, with a teaspoonful of salt. Wet this up witJ the 
Bponge, and when it is mixed, add, for a loaf of fair iize, 
half a teacupful of molasses. The dough should be very 
soft. If there is not enough of the sponge to reduce it to 
the desired consistency, add a little blood- warm ■«ater. 
Knead it diligently and long. It will not rise so rapidly 
as the white flour, having more " body " to carry. I^t it 
take its time; make into round, comfortable loaveri, and 
set down again for the second rising, when you have again 
kneaded it. Bake steadily, taking care it does not bum, 
and do not cut while hot. The result will well rep*./ you 
for your trouble. It will take a longer time to bake than 
white bread. Brown flour should not be sifted. 

BosToir Brown Bb£AD. 

Set a sponge over night, with potatoes or white Qoox, 
in the following proportions : — 



BBKiJ). 28i 

1 cup yeast. 

6 potatoes, lULshed fine with three cnps of flDur. 

1 quart warm water. 

2 tablespoonfuls lard (or, if ycu leave out the potatotii^ 
oue quart of warm water to three pints of flour). 

2 tablespoonfuls brown sugar. 

Bea^ up well, and let it rise five or six hours. 
When light, sift iato the bread-tray — 

1 quart rye-flour. 

2 quarts Indian meal. 
1 tablespoonful salt. 

1 teaspoonful soda, or saleratus. 

Mix this up very soft with the risen sponge, adding 
warm water, if needed, and working in gradually 
Half a teacupful of molasses. 

!Knead well, and let it rise from six to seven hours. 
Then -Wtrk over again, and divide into loaves, putting these 
in well-greased, round, deep pans. The second rising should 
last an hour, at the end of which time bake in a moderate 
oven about four hours. Rapid baking will ruin it. If 
put in late ia the day, let it stay in the oven all night. 

Eye Bbxad. 

Set a sponge, as above, but with half the quantity of 
water. 

In the morning mix with this : 
1 quart warm milk. 
1 tablespoonful salt. 
1 cup Indian meal. 
And enough rye flour to make it into pliable dough. 

Proceecl as with wheat bread, baking it a little longer 



282 COMMON SENSE. 

It is a mistake to suppose that acidity, greater or less^ 
Is t lie normal state of rye bread. If you find your dough 
in the slightest degree sour, correct by adding a teaspoon- 
ful of soda dissolved in warm water. It is safest to iidd 
this always in warm weather. 

Milk Bread. , 

1 quart of milk. 

^ teacupful of yeast. 

J lb. butter, one tablespoonftil white sugar. 

Stir into the milk, which should be made blood-Varm, 
a pint of flour, the sugar, lastly the yeast. Beat all to- 
gether well, and let them rise five or six hours. Then 
melt the butter, and add with a little salt. Work in flour 
enoiigh to make a stiff dough ; let this rise four hours, and 
make into small loaves. Set near the fire for half an hour, 
and bake. 

In warm weather, add a teaspoonful soda, dissolved in 
warm water, to the risen spnnge, as all bread mixed with 
milk is apt to sour. 

BUTTKRMILK BrEAB. 

1 pint buttermilk heated to scalding. 

Stir in, while it is hot, enough flour to make a tolerably 
thick batter. A.dd half a gill 'of yeast, and let it rise five 
01 six. hours. If you make it over night you need not add 
jhe yeast, but put in, instead, a tablespoonful white sugar. 
In the morning, stir into the sponge a teaspoonful soda 
dissolved in hot water, a little salt, and two tablespoonful^ 
nteltnd butter. Work in just flour enough to enable you 
to handle the dough comfortably ; knead well, make inta 
loaves, and let it rise until light. 

This mak )S very white and wholesome bread. 



BKEAD. aSa 

Bice Eread 
Make a sponge of — 

1 juart warm water. 
i teacupful yeast. 

1 tablespoOnful white sugar. 

2 " lard. 
1 quart wheat flour. 

Beat well together, and when it has risen, which wiU M 
in about five hours, add three pints of warm milk and three 
teicupfuls rice-flour wet to a thin paste with cold milk, 
and boiled four minutes as you would starch. This should 
he a little more than blood-warm when it is stirred into the 
hatter. If not thick enough to make out into dough, add a 
> Lttle wheat-flour. Rnead thoroughly, and treat as you would 
wheat bread in the matter of the two risings and baking. 

This is nice and delicate for invalids, and keeps weU. 
If you cannot procure the rice-flour, boil one cup of whole 
rice to a thin paste, mashing and beating it smooth. 

French Rolls. {Ho. 1.) •{* 

In kneading dough for the day's baking, after adding 
and working in the risen sponge, set aside enough for a loaf 
of tea-rolls. Work into this a heaping tablespoonful of lard 
or butter, and let it stand in a tolerably cool place (not a 
cold or draughty one) for four hours. Knead it again, 
and let it alone for three hours longer. Then make into 
rolls, by rolling out, veri/ lightly, pieces of the dough into 
round cakes, and folding these, not quite in the centre, like 
>um-overs. The third rising will be for one houi-, then 
bake steadily half an hour or less, if the oven is quick. 

Having seen these rolls, smoking, Ught, and delicioog 
apon my own table, at east twice a ^eek for ten years, 
»ith scarcely a failure in tb" wiixing or baking, I can cott 



284 COMMON BENSB. 

fidently recommend the receipt and the product. You can 
make out part of your Graham dough in the same maimer, 

Fkench Eolls. {No. 2.) 

1 quart milk ; new, warm milk is best. 

1 teacup yeast. 

1 quart and a pint flour. 

When this sponge is light, work in a well-beaten egg 
and two tablespoonfuls melted butter, with a teaspoonful of 
salt, half a teaspoonful soda dissolved in hot water, one 
tablespoonful white sugar and enough flour to make a soft 
dough. Let this stand four or five hours, roll out into 
round cakes and fold as in No. 1, or shape with your hands 
into balls. Set these closely together in the baking-pan ; 
let them rise one hour, and just before putting them into 
the oven, cut deeply across each ball with a sharp knife. 
This will make the cleft roll, so familiar to us in French 
restaurants. Bake half an hour. 

Risen Biscuit. »J« 

1 quart milk. 

J cup lard or butter — ^half-and-half is a good rule. 
|- cup of yeast. 

2 tablespoonfuls white sugar. 
1 teaspoonful salt. 

Flour to make a soft dough. 

Mix over night, warming the milk slightly amd melting 
the lard or butter. In the morning, roU out into a sheet 
three-quarters of an inch in thickness ; cut into round 
aakes, set these closely together in a pan, let them rise for 
twenty minutes, and bake twenty minutes. 

These delightful biscuits are even better if the above in- 
gredients be set with half as much flour, in the tbnn of a 



BBEAD. 285 

fliin sponge, and the rest of the flour be worked in five 
ttours later. Let this rise five hours more, and proceed aa 
already directed. This is the best plan if the biscuit are 
intonded for tea. 

SaujY Lunn. {JSTo. 1.) "J* 
1 quart of Hour. 
4 eggs. 

^ cup melted butter. 
1 cup warm milk. 
1 cup warm water. 
4 tablespoonfuls yeast. 
1 tPHspoonful salt. 
I " soda, dissolved in hot water. 

Beat the eggs to a stiff froth, add the milk, water, butter 
Boda, and salt ; stir in the flour to a smooth batter, and 
beat the yeast in well. Set to rise in a buttered pudding- 
dish, in which it must be baked and sent to table. Or, if 
you wish to turn it out, set to rise in a weW-buttered mould. 
It will not be light under six hours. Bake steadily three- 
quarters of an hour, or until a straw thrust into it cornea 
up clean. Eat while hot. 

This is the genuine old-fashioned Sally Lunn, and wU] 
hardly give place even yet to the newer and faster com 
pounds known under the same name. 

Sally Lunn. (Wo. 2.) •{• 
1 scant quart flour. 
4 eggs. 

1 teacupful milk. 

1 " lard and butter mixed. 
1 teagpoonful cream-tartar. 
^ " soda dissolved in hot water. 

1 " salt 



280 COMMON SENSE. 

Beat the eggs very light, yolks and vrhites separately , 
melt the Shortening, sift the cream-tartar into the floui 
add the whites the last thing. 

V Potato Biscuit. ^ 

8 potatoes of medium size, mashed very fine. 
4 tablespoonfuls butter, melted." 
2 cups milk, blood-warm. 

1 cup yeast. 

Flour to make a thin batter. 

2 tablespoonfuls white sugar. 

Stir all the above ingredients together except the but 
ter, and let the sponge rise until light — four or five houri 
will do ; then add the melted butter with a little salt and 
flour, enough to make soft dough. Set aside this for fou« 
hours longer, roll out in a sheet three-quarters of an inch 
thick, cut into cakes ; let these rise one hour, and bake. 

Mbs. E ^"s Biscuit {Soda). »{• 

1 quart flour. 

2 heaping tablespoonfuls of lard. 

2 cups sweet — if you can get it — new milk. 

1 teaspoonful of soda. 

2 " cream-tartar. 
1 saltspoonful of salt. 

Rub the soda arid cream-tartar into the flour, and sift 
all together before they are wet ; then put in the salt ; next 
the lard, rubbed into the prepared flour quickly and light- 
ly ; lastly, pour in the milk. Work out the dough rapidly, 
kneading with as few strokes as possible, since handling 
injures the biscuit. If properly prepared the dough will 
have a rough surface and the biscuit be flaky. Thg dough 
should also be very soft. If the flour stiflfen it two much, 



BBEAD. 287 

add more milk. Roll out ligktly, cut into cakes at least 
h«lf an inch thick, and bake in a quick oven. The biscuit 
made by the friend from -whom I had tliis receipt were 
mar^'els of lightness and sweetness. I have often thought 
i>f them since with regretful longing, when set down to ac 
sailed " soda biscuit,'* marbled with greenish-yellow streaks, 
and emitting, when, split, an odor whicli was ia itself an 
eloquent dissuasive to an educated appetite. Few cooks 
make really good, quick biscuit — why, I am unable to say, 
unless upon the principle of " brains will tell." I have 
had more than one in my kitchen, who, admirable in abnost 
every other respect, were absolutely unfit to be intrusted 
with this simple yet delicate manufacture. The common 
fault is to have too " heavy a hand " with soda, and to 
" guess at " the quantities, instead of measuring them. Eat 
while warm. 

Graham Biscuit. 4* 

3 cups Graham flour. 

1 cup white. 
3 cups milk. 

2 tablespoonfuls lard. 

1 heaping tablespoouiul white sugar. 
1 saltspoonful of salt. 

1 teaspoonful soda. 

2 teaspoonfuls cream-tartar. 

Mix and bake as you do the white soda-bisciil; (Mra 
B — ^"b). They are good cold as well as hot. 

Minute Biscuit. 

1 pint sour, or buttermilk. 

1 teaspoonful soda. 

2 teasj)Oonfuls melted butt«» 



288 COMKON BENSi:. 

Flour to make soft dougli — just stiiF enougli to handln, 
Mix, roll, and cut out rapidly, with as little handUng aa 
Kiay be, and bake iu a quick oven. 

Graham Wheatlets. 

1 pint Graham flour. 

Nearly a quart of boiling water or milk. 

1 teaspoonful salt. 

Scald the flour, when you have salted it, into as soft 
dough as you can handle. £.oU it nearly an inch thick, 
cut in round cakes, lay upon a hot buttered tin or pan, 
Mid bake them in the hottest oven you can get ready, 
Ev»!rything depends upon heat in the manufacture of theae. 
Some cooks spread them on a hot tin, and set this upon a 
red-hot stove. Properly scalded and cooked, they are light 
»a puffs, and very good ; otherwise they are flat and tongh. 
BpUt and butter while hot. 

Sweet Eusk. »{« 

1 pint warm milk. 
^ cup of butter. 

1 cup of sugar. 

2 eggs. 

1 teaspoonful of salt. 

2 tablespoonfuls yeast. 

Make a sponge with the milk, yeast, and enough floiii 
for a thin batter, and let it rise over night. In the morn- 
ing add the butter, eggs, and sugar, previously beaten up 
well together, the salt, and flour enough to make a soft 
dough, Mould with. the hands into balls of uniform size-, 
«et cF /B together iu a pan, and let them rise until very 
'j'gLt. After baking, wash the tops with a clean soft clotb 
dipped in molasses and wat3r. 



BBEAD. 

Dried Eusk. ^ 

1 pint of warm milk. 

2 eggs. 

J teacup of butter. 

Half a cup of yeast. 

1 teaspoonful salt. 
Set a sponge with these ingredients, leaving out the 
eggs, and stirring in flour until you have a thick batter. 
Eiirly- next morning add the well-beaten eggs, and flour 
enough to enable you to roll out the dough. Let this rise 
in the bread-bowl two hours. E.oU into a sheet nearly an 
inch thick, cut into round cakes, and arrange in your bak- 
ing-pan two deep, laying one upon the other carefully 
«let these stand for another half-hour, and bake. 

These are now very nice for eating, and you may, if 
jou Kke, reserve a plateful for tea ; but the rule for the 
ijiany, handed down through, I am afraid to say how many 
gieneratioris, in the family where I first ate this novel and 
iilelightful biscuit, is to divide the twins, thus leaving one 
■ide of each cake soft, and, piling them loosely in the pan, 
»et them in the oven when the fire is declining for the 
night, and leave them in until morning. Then, still obey- 
ing the traditions of revered elders, put them in a clean 
muslin bag, and hang them up in the kitchen. They will 
be fit to eat upon the third day. Put as many as you need 
in a deep dish and pour over them iced milk, or water, if 
you cannot easily procure the former. Let them soak un- 
til soft, take them out, drain them for a minuto in a shal- 
low plate, and eat with butter. Invalids and children 
crave them eagerly. Indeed, I have seen few refuse them! 
who had ever tasted them before. There is a pastoral flavor 
about the plea.sant dish, eaten with the accompaniment of 
frost berries, on a summer evening, that appeals to tho bet 
»r impulses of one's appetite. 
13 



290 COMMON SENSE. 

Try my soaked rusk — not forgettiDg to ice the milk — 
and you ffidll find out for yourself what I mean, but cannoi 
q lite express. 

Dried rusk will keep for weeks, and grow better every 
(<lay. The only risk is in their being eaten up before they 
aUain maturity. 

', Butter CbackeesJ 

1 quart of flour. 

3 tablespoonfuls butter. 

^ teaspoonful soda, dissolved in hot water. 

1 saltspoonful salt. 

2 cups sweet milk. 

Rub the butter into the flour, or, what is better, cut it 
up with a knife or chopper, as you do in pastry ; add the 
salt, mUk, and soda, mixing well. Work into a ball, lay 
upon a floured board, and beat with the rolling-pin half an 
uour, turning and shifting the mass often. Roll into an 
even sheet, a quarter of an inch thick, or less, prick deeply 
with a fork, and bake hard in a moderate oven. Hang 
them up in a muslin bag in the kitchen for two days t« 
dry. 

Waters. ►{« 

1 pound of flour. 

2 tablespoonfuls butter. 
A little salt. 

Mix with sweet milk into a stiff do\igh, roll out very 
thin, cut into roxind cakes, and again roU these as thin aa 
tliey can be handled. Lift them carefully, lay in a pan, 
and bake very quickly. 

These are extremely nice, especially for invalids. Tlioy 
should be hardly thicker than writing-paper. Elour fch« 
baking-pan instead of greasing. 



BKKAD 291 

Crumpets {Sweet). 
1 pint raised dougli. 
3 eggs. 

3 tablespoonfuls butter. 
J cup white sugar. 

When your bread has passed its second rising, work in- 
to the above-named qiiantity the melted butter, then th<, 
eggs and sugar,, beaten together until very light. Bake iri 
muffin-rings about twenty minutes. 

Crumpets {Plain). »{• 

3 cups warm milk, 

■J oup yeast. 

2 tablespoonfuls melted butter. 

1 saltspoonful salt, and the same of soda, dissolved in 

hot water. 
Flour to make good batter. 

Set these ingredients — leaving out the butter and so(« 
— ^as a sponge. When very light, beat in the melted bu - 
ter, with a very little flour, to prevent the butter froti 
thinning the batter too much; stir in the soda hard, fH 
pattypans or muffin-rings with the mixture, and let tha» 
ttand fifteen minutes before baking. 

This is aa excellent, easy, and economical rec-.lpt. 

VG-RAHAM MUFFINSJ«^ 

3 cui)8 Graham flour. 

1 " white flour. 

1 quart of milk. 

I cup yeast. 

1 tablespoonful lard or butter. 

1 teaspoonful salt. 

2 tablespoonfuls sugar. 



292 COMMON 8EN8TI. 

Set to me over night, and bake in muflSL ri '/p t'weutT 
miuutes in a quick oven. Eat liot. 

Queen Muffins. »{« 

1 quart of niilk. 
f cup of yeast. 

2 tablespoonfuls white sugar. 

1 " of lard or butter. 

1 teaSj)oonful salt. 

Flour to make a good batter. 

2 eggs. 

Set the batter — leaving out the eggs — ^to rise ovei 
kdglit. In the morning beat the eggs very ligli-s, stir into 
ihe batter, and bake in mufiin-rings twenty minutes ^o a 
nvdck oven. 

Cream Muffins. ^ 

1 quart sweet milk (half-cream, if you can get it). 
1 " flour — heaping. 
6 eggs. 

1 tablespoonful butter, and the same of lard — melted 
together. 
Beat the eggs light — th.< yolks and whites separately ; 
add the milk, with a little salt, then the shortening, lastly 
the flour, stii-ring in lightly. Bake immediately in well- 
greased rings half filled with the batter. Your oven she iild 
be hot, and the muffins sent to table so soon as they aro 
taken up. 

Buttermilk Muffins. 

. quart buttermilk, oi " loppered " sweet nulk. 

2 eggs. 

T teaspoonftd soda, dissolved in hot water. 

1 " salt. 

Flo HI- to make good batter. 



BBKAD. 293 

Beat the eggs well and stir them into the milk, bes'rlng 
hsid all the while; add the flonr and salt, and at the iMt. 
the soda. Bake at once in a quick oven. 

"MOTHEU'S" MUFFIKS. •J* 

1 pint milk. 

1 egg. 

1 tablespoonfiil lard. 

^ cnp yeast. 

Flour for stiff batter. 

1 teaspoonful salt. 

Set to rise over night. 

CnAHLOTTE Muffins. »J« 

1 quart of flour. 

3 eggs — the whites and yolks beaten separately ,»n«t 

until stiff. 
3 cups of milk. If sour, no disadvantage, if soda )i9 

added. 
A little salt. 
The excellence of these depends upon thorough beat- 
ing and quick baking. 

Rice Muffins. »J« 

1 cup cold boiled rice 

1 pint of flour. 

2 eggs. 

1 quart of milk, or enough to make thin baiter. 
1 tablespoonful lard or butter. 
1 teaspoonful salt. 

Beat hard and bake quickly. 



294 common 8enss. 

Hominy Muffins. »J« 

2 cups fine hominy — bt Ued and cold. 

3 eggs. 

3 cups sour milk. If sweet, add one teaspoonful cream 

tartar. 
^ cup melted butter. 
2 teaspooufuls Rait. 
2 tablespoonfuls white sugar. 
1 large cup flour. 
1 teaspoonful soda. 

Beat the hominy smooth; stir in the milk, then the 
butter, salt, and siigar; next the eggs, which should firsi 
Ve well beaten ; then the soda, dissolved in hot water j 
lastly tlie flour. 

There are no more delicious or wholesome muffins than 
these, if rightly mixed and quickly baked. 

Belle's MurriNS. 

3 pints of flour. 

1 quart of milk. 

2 eggs. 

2 tablespoonfuls cream-tartar. 
1 teaspoonful soda. 
1 « salt. 

Sift the cream-tartar with the flour. Beat the eggs 
Fery light. Dissolve the soda in hot water. Bake in rings 
uj a quick oven. • 

Corn Bread. 

There is a marked difference between the com-raeal 
ground at the South, and that which is sent out froro 
Northern mills. If any one doubts this, it is not she who 
has perse verjngly tiied both kinds, and demonstrated to 



BKEAD. 29.1 

hei own conviction that the same treatment will not da 
for them. An Lateiligent lady once told me that the shape 
of the particles composing the meal was different — the one 
being round and smooth, the other angular. I am inclined 
to believe this. The Southern meal is certainly coarser, 
and the bread made from it less compact. Moreover, there 
is a partiality at the North for yellow meal, which the 
Southerners regard as only fit for chicken and cattle-fee^. 
The yellow may be the sweeter, but I acknowledge that I 
have never succeeded in making really nice bread from it. 

Indian meal should be purchased in small quantities, 
tjxcept for a very large family. It is apt to heat, mould, 
!«id grow musty, if kept long in bulk or in a warm place 
If not sweet and dry, it is useless to expect good bread or 
cakes. As an article of diet, especially in the early warm 
days of spring, it is healthful and agreeable, often acting 
as a gentle corrective to bile and other disorders. In 
winter, also, it is always acceptable upon the breakfast 
or supper table, being warming and nutritious. In sum- 
«ner the free use of it is less judicious, on account of its 
iaxative properties. As a kindly variation in the routine 
of fine white bread and baker's rolls, it is worth the atten 
tion of every housewife. " Johp and the children " will 
like it, if it approximates the fair standard of excellence ; 
and I take it, my good friend — you who have patiently 
kepi company with me from our prefatory talk until now — 
that you iove them well enough to care for their comfort 
and likings. 

" My husband is wild about com bread," a wife re-' 
marked to me not a hundred years ago, " but [ wou't make 
it for him ; it is such a bolher ! And if I once indulgt 
him, he will give me no peace." 

Beloved sister, I am persuaded better things of you 
Good husbauds cannot be spoiled by petting. Bad oner 



296 



COMMON SENSE. 



cannot be made worse — ^they may be made better. It ^eeiiu 
a little thing, so trifling in its consequences, you need noi 
tire further your acliing back and feet to accomplish it — 
the preparation of John's favorite dish when he does noi 
expect the treat — to surprise him when he comes in cold 
and hungry, by setting before him a dish of hot milk-toast, 
or a loaf of corn-bread, brown and crisp without, yelloss 
and spongy within, instead of the stereotyped pile of cold 
slices, brown or white. If he were consulted, he would 
Bay, Kke the generous soul he is — " Don't take one needless 
Btep for me, dear." And he would mean it. But for all 
that, he will enjoy your little surprise — ay ! and love you 
the better for it. It is the " little by little " that makes 
up the weal and woe of life. 

May I make this digression longer yet, by telling you 
what I overheard a husband say to a wife the other daj, 
when he thought no one else was near enough to hear him ? 
He is no gourmand, but he is very partial to a certain kind 
of cruller which nobody else can make, he thinks, so weJ' 
as Ms little wife. It so chanced that in frying some of thes« 
she scalded her hand badly. After it was bandaged, bh" 
brought up a plate of the cakes for his luncheon. He lool" 
ed at them, then at her, with a loving, mournful smile. 

" I can .understand now," said he, " how David felt 
when his men-of-war brought him the water from the well 
■ of Bethlehem." 

Then he stooped and kissed the injured fingers, fet 
he has been married nearly twenty years. I wap nut 
iishamed that my eyes were moist. I honored him the mom 
that his were dim. 

This is my lesson by the wayside apropos to com bread 

And now again to business. 



BKEA.D. ii»7 

Receipts for JBread made of Northern Indian, Meed 

Nonpareil Cokn Bread. »J« 

2 heaping cups of Indian, meal. 
1 cup of flour. 

3 eggs. 

2^ cups milk. 

1 tablespoonful lard. 

2 " wliite sugar. 

1 teasjjoonful soda. 

2 " cream-tartar. 
1 « salt. 

Beat the eggs > ery thoroughly — ^whites and yolks sep 
tirately — melt the lard, sift the cream-tartar and soda into 
the meal and flour while yet dry, and stir tliis in at ihtt 
last. Then, to borrow the direction scribbled by a rattle- 
fcongued girl upon the above receipt, when she sent it lo 
me — " heat like mad I " Bake quickly and steadily in a 
buttered mould. Less than half an hour will usually suflic >. 
In cutting corn bread hold tlie hnife pei-pendicula/rly an 1 
cut toward you. 

Corn Meal Muffins. 

Mix according to the foregoing receipt, ( nly a little thin 
aer, and bake in rings or small pattypans. All kinds ol. 
Bom bread should be baked quickly and eaten -While hot. 

Risen Corn Bread. 

1 pint Indian meal. 

2 cups risen sponge, taken from your regular baking of 

wheat bi-ead. 
j cup molasses, or, what is better, 4 tablespoonfuls 
white sugar. 
13* 



298 COMMON 8EN8H. 

1 teaspoonfu] soda, dissolved in hot water. 

1 tablespoonful lard, meltedT 

1 cup flour, or enough for stiflf batcer. 

Mix well, put to rise in a buttered mould until verj 
U^bt. Bake ouc hour. It is well to scald the meal and 
stir ir while blood- warm. 

Steamed Corn Bread. 

2 cups Indian meal. 

1 cup flour. 

2 tablespoonfuls white sugar. 

2^ cups " loppered " milk, or buttermilk. 

1 teaspoonful soda. 

1 « salt. 

1 heaping tablespoonful lard, melted. 

Beat very hard and long, put in buttered mould, tie a 
coarse cloth tightly over it, and if you have no steamer, fit 
the mould in the top of a pot of boiling water, taking care 
it does not touch the surface of the liquid, l^ay a close 
cover over the cloth tied about the mould, to keep in all the 
heat. Steam one hour and a half, and set in an oven ten 
minutes. Turn out i^pon a hot plate, and eat while warm. 

This will do for a plain dessert, eaten with pudiliug-saiice. 

Corn-Meal Crumpets. 

1 qiiart Indian meal. 

1 " boiled milk. 

4 tablespoonfuls yeast. 

2 " white sugar. 
2 heaping tablespoonfuls lard 

or butter, or half and-half. 
1 saltspoonful salt. 

Scald the meal with the boiling milk, ana let it staad 



J3KEAU. 299 

ontil lukewarm.. Then stir in the sugaa-, yeas\,, aud salt, 
and leave it to rise five hours. Add the melted shortenina • 
beat well, put in greased muffin-riugs, set these near the 
fire for fifteen minutes, and bake. Half an hour in a quick 
oven ought to cook them. 

Never cut open a muffin or crumpet of any kind, least 
of all one made of Indian meal. Pass the knife lightly 
around it to pierce the crust, then break open with the 
fingers. 

Receipts for Com Bread made of Southern IruMcm Meal. 
Johnny Cake. 

1 teacupful sweet milk. 

1 " buttermilk, 

1 teaspoonful salt. 

1 " soda. 

1 tablespoonful melted butter. 

Enough meal to enable you to roll it into a sheet half 
tall inch thick. Spread upon a buttered tin, or in a shallow 
y»an, and bake forty minutes. As soon as it begins to brown, 
baste it with a rag tied to a stick and dipped in melted but- 
t-er. Repeat this five or six times until it is brown and crisp. 
Break — ^not cut it up — and eat for luncheon or tea, accom- 
panied by sweet or buttermilk. 

Aunt Jenny's Johnny Cake. 

Mix as above ; knead well, and bake upon a perfectly 
slean and sweet board, before a hot fire, with something at 
Uie back to keep it up. Incline at such an angle as will 
prevent the cake from slipping off, until it is hardened 
slightly by baldng, then place upright. Baste frequeiitlj 
with butter until nicely crisped. 



800 cmmmon 8kn8b. 

Batter Bread or ''Egg Bread." 4* 

Half a, cup of bread-crumbs soaked ia a pint of milk 

2 eggs. 

2 cups Indian meal. 

1 tablespoonful lard tt butter. 

1 t«aspoonful salt. 

Beat the eggs ligbt, and the soaked bread-crumbs to a 
Binooth batter. Melt the shortening. Stir all togcthei 
very hard, and bake in shallow tins very quickly. 

KiSEN Corn Bread. 

Mix a tolerably stiff dough of corn-meal and boiling 
water, a little salt, and a tablespoonful butter. Let it stand 
four or five hours until light ; make into small loaves and 
bake rather quickly. 

Corn-meal Pone. 

1 quart Indian meal. 

1 teaspoonful salt. 

A little lard, melted. 

Cold water to make a soft dough. 

Mould with the hands into thin oblong cakes, lay in a 
isreU-greased pan, and bake very quickly. 

The common way is to mould into oval mounds, higher 
in the middle than at the ends, shaping these rapidly and 
lightly with the hands, by tossing ths dough over and over, 
1 his is done with gi-eat dexterity by the Virginia cooks, 
nnd this corn-meal pone forma a part of every dinner, II 
tti broken, not cut, and eatijn very hot. 



gkiddle-oakes; wajtles, eto. 30] 

Ash Cake 
Is mixed as above. A clean spct is swept upon the Lot 
heiirth, the bread put down and covered with hot wood 
RsheSa It must be washed and wiped dry before it is eaten, 
A neater way is to lay a cabbage-leaf above and below the 
pone. The bread is thus steamed before it is baked, anil is 
made ready for eating by stripping off the leaves. 

Fbied Pone. 

Instead of moulding the dough with the hands, cut into 
slices with a knife. Try out some fat pork in a frying-pan, 
and fry the slices in the gravy thus obtained to a ligh"^ 
brown. 

Griddle-Cakes, Waffles, etc. 

If you have not used your gi-iddle or waffle-iron fo) 
some time, wash it off hard with hot soap and water; wipe 
and rub well with dry salt. Heat it and grease with a bit 
of fat salt pork on a fork. It is a mistake, besides being 
slovenly and wasteful, to put on more grease than is abso- 
lutely necessary to prevent the cake from sticking. A piece 
of pork an inch square should last for several days. Put 
on a great spoonful of butter for each cake, and before ILll- 
Lng the gi'iddle test it with a single cake, to be sure that aL 
is right with it as well as the batter. 

The same rules apply to waffles. Always lay hot caiim 
ajid waffles uj)on a hot plate as soon as baked. 

Buckwheat Cakes. •{« 

1 qiiari buckwhoiit (lour. 
4 tablespoonfuls yeast. 
1 teaspoonfiil salt. 

1 handful Indian meal. 

2 .tablespoonfids moliissi* -nui syrup 



6V2 COMMON BENBE. 

Warm watei enough, to make a thin batter. Beat v£tj 
well and set to rise in a warm place. If the batter is in the 
least sour in the morning, stir in a very little soda dissolv 
ed in hot water. 

Mix in an earthen crock, and leave some in the bottom 
each morning — a cupful or so — to serve as sponge for the 
next night, instead of getting fresh yeast. In cold weather 
this plan csm be successfully pursued for a week or ten days 
(ri-thout setting a new supply. Of course you add the usual 
quantity of flour, &c., evei-y night, and beat up well. 

Do not make your cakes too small. Buckwheats should 
be of generous size. Some put two-thii-ds buckwheat, one- 
third oat-meal, omitting the Indian. 

Flannel Cakes. »}« 

1 quart milk. 

3 tablespoonfuls yeast. 

1 tablespoonful butter, melted 

2 eggs, well beaten. 
1 teaspoonful salt. 

Flour to make a good batter, Set the rest of the ingre- 
ditrnts as a sponge over night, and in the morning add the 
D>eltcd butter and eggs. 

Corn-meal Flapjacks. 

1 quart sour or buttermilk. 

2 eggs, beaten light. 
1 teaspoonful salt. 

1 " soda dissolved in hot watoc. 

2 tablespoonfuls molasses. 

1 " lard, melted, 

^ cup flour. 

Meal to make a batter a trifle thicker than flannel cakes. 



GEIDPLE-CAKES, WAFFLES, ETC. 303 

GRAiiAii Cakes. »J« 

2 Clips brown flour, 
1 cup white " 

3 cups four or buttermilk. 

1 full teaspoonful soda, dissolved in hot water. 
J teaspoonful salt. 
1 heaping tablespoonful lard. 
3 eggs, beaten very light. 

[f you use sweet milk, add two teaspoonfula cream-tM 
tar Bake as soon as they are mixed. 

Auntie's Cakes {wiiltout Eggs), 

1 quai-t sour or buttermilk. 

2 teaspoonfuls soda (small ones). 
1 « salt. 

Flour to make a tolerably thick batter. 

Stir until smooth — no longer — and bake iramediateljt 

Egoless Flannel Cakes. 

1 quart milk. 

^ teacupful yeast. 

2 cups white flour. 
1 cup Indian meal. 

1 tablespoonful lard, melted. 
1 teaspoonful salt. 

Set over night, adding the lard in the momjug 

Grandpa's Favorites. •}« 

1 quart milk. 

2 cups stale bread-crumbs. 
1 good handful of flour. 

1 tablespoonful mflted butter. 



S04 COMMON SENSE. 

3 eggs, well beaten. 
1 teaspoonful salt. 

Work tlie bread and milk smooth, stir in the butter kr4 
eggs, then the salt, lastly just enough flour to bind th« 
mixture. If too thick, add milk. These are wholepomf 
and good. Take care they do not stick to the griddle. 

Risen Batter-Cakes. 

3 cups white Indian meal. 
1 cup white flour. 

1 tablespoonful butter, melted and added in the morn- 
ing. 
1 quart milk. 

4 tablespoonfuls of yeast. 

1 teaspoonful soda dissolved in hot water, and addi .i u 

the morning. 
1 teaspoonful salt. 

Mix over night. 

Rice Cakes. »{« 

One cup cold boiled rice. 
One pint flo\ir. 

1 teaspoonful salt. 
Two eggs beaten light. 

Milk to make a tolerably thick batt«r, 

Seat all together well. 

Hominy Cakes. »J« 

2 cups fine hominy, boiled and cold, 
1 cxvp white flour. 

1 quart milk. 

3 eggs, very well beaten. 
1 teaspoonful salt. 



QBIDDLH-CAKE8, WAFFLES, ETC. 306 

Beat smooth the hoiainy, work in the niilk and salt, 
then the flour, lastly the egga. Bake at once, and keep the 
mixture well stirred. 

Ckeam Cakes. »J« 

1 pint cream and same quantity of milk, slightly BOiU 

4 eggs, whites and yolks whipped separately. 

1 teaspoonfiil soda dissolved in boiling water. 

1 « salt. 

Flour to make a good batter, well beaten in. 

Velvet Cakes. 

1 quart new unskimmed milk — half cream and half 

milk is preferable. 
3 eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately and ver^ 

stiff. 
1 teaspoonful salt. 
Rice flour. 

Mix the beaten yolks with the milk, add the salt, then 
rice flour to make a batter thick as that for flannel cukes ), 
lastly, whip in the stifl'ened whites very Kghtly, and bake 
immediately. 

Risen Waffles. 

1 quart milk. 

1 heaping quart flour. 
6 tablespoonfuls yeast. 

2 eggs. 

1 tablespoonful melted butter. 
1 te,'ispoonful salt. 

Sot the mixture — minus the eggs and butt, a — orei 
night as a sponge ; add these in the morning, and bake is 
•vaflle irjns. 



SOe COMMON 8ENBB. 

" Mother's " Waffles. •{» 
2 cups milk. 

2 eggs. 

3 cups flour. 

1 teaspoonful cream-tartar. 

i " soda. 

1 saltspoonful salt. 

1 tablespoonful melted butter. 
Sjft tlie cream-tartar into the flour with the salt, Dis 
6cii\8 the soda in a little hot water. Beat the eggs verj 
well. Add. fclw, flour the last thing. If tho batter ia toe 
itiff, put >B iiaore mUk. 

fticE Waffles {No. 1). >{« 
1 cup boiled rice. 

1 pint milk. 

2 eggs. 

Lard, the size of a walnut 
^ teaspoonful soda. 
1 " cream-tartar. 

1 « salt. 

Flour for a thin batter. 

Rice Waffles {No. 2). 
1 quart milk. 
1 cup cold boiled rice. 
3 cups rice flour, or enough for thin batiier. 
1 tablespoonftil melted butter. 
3 eggs. 
1 teaspoonfid salt. 

Quick Waffles. 
1 pint milk. 

3 eggs, beaten very Ught. 



8HOBTOAKE, £T0. 301 

1 tablespoonful melted butter. 

1 teaspoonfiil cream-tartar sifted in tie flour, 

i " soda. 

1 " salt. 

A heaping pint of flour, or enough to make wift battel 

Rice and Co^n-Meal Waffles. 

1 cup cold boiled rice. 

^ cup white flour, and same of corn-meal. 

2 eggs well whipped, and milk to make soft batter. 
1 tablespoonful melted butter. 

^ teaspoonful soda, dissolved iu hot water. 

1 « of salt. 

Beat the mixture smooth before baking. 
Be especially careful in greasing your ii-ons for tness 
a alfles, as Inr all which contain rice. 

Shortcake, &c. 

Sunnyhanh Shortcake {^for fruii). »J« 

2 quarts flour. 

2 tablcspoonfuls lard. 

3 " butter. 

2^ cups sour or buttermilk. " Loppered " cream is 

stiU better. 
2 eggs, well beaten. 

1 teaspoonful soda, dissolved in hot water. 
1 « salt. 

Chop up the shortening in the salted flour, as for pastry^ 
Add the eggs and soda to the milk ; put all together, hand- 
ling as Uttle as may be. Roll lightly and quickly into tw« 
sheets, the one intended for the uj^per crust fully Jialf an 



308 COMMON SENSE. 

inch tliick, the lower less than this. Lay the lattei smooth 
ly in a ■weU-greased baking-pan, strew it ihicldy with rasp 
Lorries, blackberries, or, what is better yet, Imckleberriea 
eprinlde fovir or five tablespoonfuls of sugar over these, 
cover with the thicker crust, and bake from twenty to 
twenty -five miautes, until nicely browned, but not dried. 
Eat hot for breakfast with butter and powdered sugar. 

If sweet milk be used, add two tea-spoonfuls creaiu- 
tartar sifted into the dry flour. It should be mbced as soft 
as can be rolled. This shortcake is very nice made with 
the common " black-caps " or wild raspberries. 

Strawberry Shortcake. »J" 

1 quart flour. 

3 tablespoonfuls butter. 

1 Iwrge cup sour cream or very rich " loppered " milk. 

1 egg. 

1 tablespoonful white sugar. 

1 teaspoonful soda, dissolved in hot water. 

1 saltspoonful salt. 

Proceed, in mixing and baking, as with the Imckleberri' 
short-cake, except that, instead of putting the berries be- 
tween the crust, you lay one sheet of paste smoothly upon 
the other, and bake until done. While warm — not hot — 
separate these. They will come apart easily, just where 
they were joined. Lay upon the lower a thick coating, 
several deep, of strawberries; sprinkle powdered sugar 
among and over tliem ; cover with the upper crust, it 
is best to bake strawberry shortcake in round jelly-cake 
tins, or round pans a little deeper than these, as they 
should be sent to table whole, while the hot short-cake ia 
generally out into square slices, and piled upon a plate. 

Strawberry shortcake is esteemed a great delicacy ir 



BHOKTCAKE, ETO. 30$ 

iti season. It is eaten at tea, cut into triangles like pie 
ftDfi sweet cream poured over each slict, with more sugai 
lifted over it, if desired. 

ScoTcn Shokt-bread. 

2 lbs. flour. 

1 lb. best butter. 

^ lb. powdered sugar. 

Chop the flour and butter together, having made the 
1» ior quite soft by setting it near the fire. Knead in the 
Bu^^r, roll into a sheet half an inch thick, and cut in 
shapes with a cake-cutter. Bake upon buttered paper in a 
cfaajlow tin until crisp and of a delicate yellowish brown. 

Geandma's Shortcake. 

1 lb. flour, dried and sifted. 
J- lb. butter, and half as much lard. 
1 saltspoonful salt. 

A pinch of soda, thoroughly dissolved in just enougli 
vinegar to cover it, and well worked in. 

Enough ice-water to enable you to roll out into paste 
ViEif an inch thick. Cut into squares, prick with a fork, and 
bake light brown. Split, butter, and eat while hot. 

Eastek Buns {"Mot Cross"). »J« 

3 cups sweet milk. 

1 cup yeast. 

Flour to make thick batter. 

Set fclis 9£ a spongii over night. In the morning add— 
] cup sugar. 
f cup butter, melted. 
^ nutmng. 
1 saltspoonful salt. 



310 COMMON SENSE. 

Flour enough to roll out like biscuit. Knead well, ani 
set to rise for five hours. Eoll half an inch thick, cut into 
round lakes, and lay in rows in a buttered baking-pan 
When they have stood half an hour, make a cross upon 
each with a knife, and put instantly into the oven. Baks 
to a light brown, and brush over with a feather or soft 
bit of rag, dipped in the white of an egg beaten up stiff 
with white sugar. 

These are the " hot cross-buns" of the " London cries." 

Plain Buns 

Are made as above, but not rolled into a sheet. Knead 
them like biscuit-dough, taking care not to get it too stiff, 
and after the five-houi- rising, work in two or three hand- 
I'uls of currants which have been previously well washed 
and dredged with flour. Mould with your hands into 
round balls, set these closely together in a pan. that the • 
may form a loaf — " one, yet many " — when baked. Le 
them stand nearly an hour, or until very light ; then bak« 
from half to three-quarters of an hour until brown. Wasi 
them over while hot with the beaten egg and sugar. 

These are generally eaten cold, or bai'ely wai'm, and are 
best the day they are baked. 

Cake. 

Use none but the best materials for making cake. If 
you cannot afford to get good flour, dry white sugar, and 
the best family butter, make up your mind to go without 
vour cake, and eat plain bread with a clear conscience. 

There are no intermediate degrees of quality in eggs. 
I believe I have said that somewhere else, but it ought to 
be repeated just here. They should be, like Csosar's wife, 
above suspicion. A tin whisk or whip is best for beat- 
ing them. All kinds of cake are better for having the 



OAKE. 33 1 

whites ard yolks beaten sejiarately. Beat the forrner in a 
large shallow dish imtil you can cut through the froth with 
a knife, leaving as clear and distinct an iiicisic n as you 
would in a solid substance. Beat the yolks in an earthten- 
vrare bowl until they cease to froth, and thicken as if mixed 
with flour. Have the dishes cool — not too cold. It ia 
hard to whip whites stiff in a wann room. 

Stir the butter and sugar to a ci-eam. Cakes often fail 
because this rule is not followed. Beat these as faithfully 
as you do the eggs, warming the butter very slightly if 
hard. Use only a silver or wooden spoon in this as in 
other parts of your woi'k. I have heard of silver egg 
whips, but they are not likely to come into general use, ex- 
cept where the mistress makes all the cake, pudding, etc. 

Do not use fresh and stale milk in the same cake. It acts 
as disastrously as a piece of new cloth in an old garment. 
Sour milk makes a spongy cake ; sweet, one closer in grain 

Study the moods and tenses of your oven carefully be 
fore essaying a loaf of cake. Confine your early eflforts t" 
tea-cakes and the like. Jelly-cake, baked in shallow fla* 
tins, is good practice duiing the novitiate. Keep the heal 
steady, and as good at bottom as hot. 

Streaks in cake are caused by unskilful mixing, toij 
rapid or unequal baking, or a sudden decrease in heat bt 
fore the cake is quite done. 

Don't delude yourself, and maltreat those who are to 
eat your cake, by trying to make soda do the whole or most 
of the duty of eggs. Others have tried it before, with un- 
fortunate results. If curiosity tempt you to the experi- 
ment, you had better allay it by buying some sponge-cake 
%i the corner bakery. 

Tefit whether a cake is done by running a clean straw 
i.Qto the thickest part.. It should come up clean. 

Do not leave the oven-door open, or change the cake 



313 COMMON SENSE. 

front oue oven to tlie other, except in extienie cases. If it 
harden too fast on the top, cover with paper. It should 
rise to full height before the crust forms. 

Except for gingerbread, use none but white sugar. 

Always sift the flour. 

Be accurate in your weights and measures. 

There is no short rocul to good fortune in cdke-mahing 
Whai is worth doing at all is worth doing well. Tliere ia 
no disgrace in not having time to mix and bake a cake 
jTou may well be ashamed of yourself if you are too lazy, 
or careless, or hurried to beat your eggs, cream your butter 
md sugar, or measiire your ingredients. 

Yet, sometimes, when you believe you have left no 
KO.eans untried to deserve success, failure is your portion. 
What then ? 

If the cake be uneatable, throw it away upon the first 
heggar-boy who comes for broken meat, and say nothing 
ttbout it. If streaky or bui-ned, cut out the best parts, 
nake them presentable as possible, and give them to John 
.aid the cliildren as a " second-best " treat. Then keep up 
n brave heart and try again. You mat/ not satisfy your- 
xelf in a dozen trials. You certainly vnU not, if you never 
make another attempt. 

Cake should be wrapped in a thick cloth as soon as 
cool, and kept in tight tin boxes. Do not cut more at i 
time than you are likely to use, as it is not good when dry. 
Jelly-cakes are best set away upon plates, cloths wrapped 
closely about them, and a box enclosing all. 

Cream your sugar and butter, measure milk, spices, etc.. 
before beginning work. For fruit-cake it is best to pre- 
pare the materials the day before. Let your icing dry 
thoroughly before wrapping up the cake. 

Si/t ymur Jlowr before measitring, a*, all the following 
rcjjeipts are fjr siftetf floiu . 



CAKK. 31 3 

TciNG. »J« 

Whites of 4 eggs. 

1 pound powdered white sugar. 

Lemon, vanilla, or other seasoning, 

Break the whites into a broad, clean, cool dish. Throw 
■ amall handful of sugar upon them, and begin whipping it 
Iti with long, even strokes of the beater. A few minutes 
latar, throw in more sugar, and keep adding it at iatervals 
antil it is all used up. Beat perseveringly — always with a 
regular, sweeping movement of the whisk — until the icing 
is of a smooth, fine, and firm texture. Half an hour's 
Ijeating should be sufficient, if done well. If not stiff en- 
ough, put in more sugar. A little practice will teach you 
when your end is gained. If you season with lemon-juice, 
allow, in measuring your sugar, for the additional liquid. 
Lemon-juice or a very little tartaric acid whitens the icing. 
Use at least a quarter of a pound of sugar for each egg. 

Thi= method of making icing was taught me by a con- 
fectioner, as easier and surer than the old plan of beating 
the eggs first and alone. I have used no other since my 
first trial of it. The frosting hai-dens in one-fourth the 
time required under the former plan, and not more than 
half the time is consumed in the manufacture. I have 
often iced a cake but two hours before it was cut, and found 
the sugar dry all through. 

Pour the icing by the spoonful on the top of the cake 
and near the centre of the surface to be covered. If the 
loaf is of such a shape that the liquid wiU settle of itself to- 
its place, it is best to let it do so. If you spread it, use aj 
broad-bladed knife, dipped in cold water. If it is as thick 
with sugar as it should be, you need not lay on more than 
one coat. You may set it in a moderate oven foi tliree 
minutes, if you are in great haste. I'he better plan is to 
14 



314 



COMMOH SENSE. 



dry in a siiimy window, where the air can get at it^ and 
where there is no dust. 

Color icing yellow by putting the grated peel of a lemon 
or orange in a thin muslin bag, straining a little juica 
! brougli it, ai/.d squeezing it hard iato the egg and sugar. 

Strawberry -juice colors a pretty piuk, as does also oran- 
beny-syrup. /'"- "x 

\Almoisd Icing^ 

Whites of four eggs. 
1 pound sweet almonds. 
1 " powdered sugar. 
A little rose-water. 

Blanch the almonds by pouring boiling water over them 
and stripping off the skins. When dry, pound them to a 
paste, a few at a tinie, in a Wedgewood mortar, moistening 
it with rose-water as you go on. When beaten fine ami 
smooth, beat gradually into icing, prepared according to 
foregoing recei))t. 

Put on very thick, and, when nearly dry, cover with 
plain icing. 

This is very fine. 

Or, 

Mingle a few bitter almonds with the sweet. The blended 
flavor of these and the rose water is very pleasant. 

\Maetha's GassVFot Jelly). 4" 
3 eggs. ^ --/ 

1 cup sugar. 

Butter, the size of an egg. 
1 cup flour. 

1 teaspoonfvil cream -tartar, sifted in the flour. 
\ teasjjgDnfnl soda, dissolved in a tablespconfiil milk.. 

Bake in jelly-cake tins, and spread, when cold, witi 
&uit jelly. 



OA£E. 31S 

This is, although so simjile and mexpensive, an admira' 
ble foundation for the various ki'xds of jelly, cream, and 
meringue cake, -which are always T>opular. It seldom foils 
and when well mixed and baked, is very nice. 

Mrs. M.'s Cup Cake «J" 

1 cup butter. 

2 " sugar. 

3 cups flour 

4 eggs. 

1 cup sweet milk. 
1 teaspoonful soda. 
Bkke in a loaf, or as jelly-cake. 

Cream-Cake. ^ 

2 cups powdered sugar 
§■ cupful butter. 

4 eggs. 

■J- cupful milk. 

^ teaspoonful soda. 

1 " crea'ii-tartar. 

3 cups flour. 

Bake in thin layers as for jelly-cake, and spread b» 
tween them when cold the following mixture : — 
J pint of milk. 
2 small teaspoonfuls corn-starch. 

1 egg. 

1 teaspoonful vanilla. 

■J- cup sugar. 

Heat the milk to boUing, and stir in the com staroi 
wet with a little cold milk ; take out a Httle and mix grad- 
nally with the beaten egg and sugar ; return to the rest of 
the custard, and boil, stirring constantly until quite thick 



316 



COHMOH BENSB. 



Let it cool before you season, and spread on cake, Seasoa 
the icing also with vanilla. 

Jelly-Cakb. 
1 lb. sugar. 
1 « flour. 
i " butter. 
6 eggs. 
1 cup milk. 
•J- teaspoonful soda. 

1 " cream-tartar. 

Bake in shaUo-w tins, and, when cool, put jelly betw«ea 

CoOOAUtrT-CAKB. »J« 

2 cups powdered sugar. 
J cup butter. 

3 eggs. 

1 cup milk. 
3 cups flour. 

2 teaspoonfuls cream-tart»r. 

1 teaspoonful soda. 

Bake as for jeUy-oake. 

1 grated cocoanut. 

To one-half of this add whites of 3 eggs beaten co a 

froth, and 1 cup of powdered sugar. Lay this be» 

tween the layers. 

Mix with the other half of the grated cocoanut four 

iftblespoonfuls powdered sugar, and strew thickly on tcp 

»f cake. 

EOSIE'S CoCOAIfUT-CAKE. 

2 cups flour. 
1-J- " sugar. 



OAxs. 317 

^ cup butter. 

•J " sweet milk 

3 eggs. 

1 teaspoonful cream-tartar. 

J " soda. 

Sift cream -tartar and soda into the dry flour ; cream 
the butter and sugar ; add the beaten eggs, then the Tnillf ; 
lastly the flour. Bake in jelly-cake tins. 

Grate one cocoanut ; mix with it a cup and a half of 
white sugar, also the milk of the cocoanut. Set the mix- 
ture in the oven until the sugar melts; then spread be- 
tveen the cakes. 

Loaf Cocoantjt Cake. 
1 lb. sugar. 
i " butter. 
6egg^. 
i lb. flour. 

1 " finely grated cocoanut, stirred lightly in the last 
thing. 

Bake immediately. 

"One, Two, Theke, Fodb" Cocoaioit-Cake. 

1 cup butter. 

2 cups sugar. 

3 " flour. 

4 eggs (the whites only), 
1 cup milk. 

1 teaspoonful cream-tartax, 1 ^^^ ^^ ^^^ ^^^ 

J " soda, ) 

^ small cocoanut, stirred in at the last. 



818 COMMON SENSE. 

VCocoanttt-Cakes \&inaE). 

1 cocoanut, carefully skinneci and grated. 

Milk of the same. 

1^ lb. powdered sugar. 

As much water as you have cocoanut milk , 

Whites of three eggs. 

Dissolve one pound of sugar in the milk and water. 
Stew until it becomes a " ropy " synip, and turn out into 
a buttered dish. Have ready the beaten white of egg, 
with the remaining half-pound of sugar whipped into it ,' 
mix with this the grated cocoanut, ajid little by little, 
Seating all the while the boiled syrup, so soon as it cools 
sufficiently not to scald the eggs. Drop in tablespoonfuls 
upon buttered papers. Try one first, and if.it runs, beat 
In more sugar. Bake in a very moderate oven, watching 
to prevent scorching. They should not be sufiered to 
brown at all. 

These will keep some time, but are best quite fresh. 

r 

V Cocoanut Cones. j 

1 lb. powdered sugar. 
^ " grated cocoanut. 
Whites of 5 eggs. 

Whip the eggs as for icing, adding the sugar as you go 
Ml, until it will stand alone, then beat in the cocoanut. 

Mould the mixture with your hands into small cones, 
and set these far enough apart not to touch one another 
upon buttered paper in a baking-pan. Bake in a very mod» 
tate oven. 

Leb Cake. »J« 

10 eggs. 
1 lb, su(;ar. 



CAKE. 319 

i lb. flour. 
2 lemons. 

Bsat whites and yolks separately ; add to all the yolki 
and the ■whites of seven eggs the sugar, the rind of two 
lemoi.fi, and juice of one. Bake as for jelly-cake. 

To the whites of three eggs allow a pound and a quarter 
of powdered sugar ; beat stiff as for icing, take out enough 
to cover the top of the cake and set aside. Add to the rest 
the juice and half the grated rind of a large orange. When 
the cake is nearly cold, spread this between the layers. 
Beat into the icing reserved for the top a little lemon-juice, 
and, if needed, more sugar. It should be stiffer than that 
spread between the cakes. 

You can make a very delightful variation of this elegant 
cake, by spreading the orange icing between layers made ac- 
cording to the receipt given for " Martha's JeUy-Cake " 
several pages back, and frosting with lemon miiringue, a» 
above. 

White-Mountain Caes, 

3 cups sugar. 

1 cup butter. 

\ " sweet milk. 

Whites of ten eggs. 

1 " cream-tartar, J o u^/<ix. 

4J- cups flour. 

Flavor with essence of bitter almond. 

Icing, whites of 3 eggs, 1 lb. powdered sugar. FlavotJ 
with lemon-juice. Bake in jelly-cake tins, and fill with 
grated cocoanut, sweetened with a quarter of its weight ol 
powdered sugar, or with icing such as is made for Lee cako, 
i»alj flavored with lemon entirely. 



s20 common sense. 

Fkench Cake. 
1 lb sugar. 
I « batter. 
1 " currants, washed clean and dredged with flotu, 

3 cups flour. 

4 eggs. 

Nutmeg and cinnamon to taste. 

^ teaspoonful soda dissolved in three tablespoonfiih 
milk. 

Lemon-Cake {N'o. 1). 
1 lb. sugar. 

12 eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately. 
i lb. flour. 

Juice and rind of a lemon. 
Icing flavored with same. 
Baked in small square tins, and iced on sides and top, 
these are sometimes called biscuits glac&s. 

Lemon-Cake {Ifo. 2). 

1 cup of butter (packed). 

2 scant cups of sugar. 

10 eggs, yolks and whites beaten separately, 
1 small cup of milk. 
Juice and rind of a lemon. 
1 small teaspoonful soda. 
Flour to make tolerably thin batter (between two and 
three cups). Of some qualities of flour three cups will b« 
needed. 

Eake in a quick oven. 

Labt-Cake (JTo. 1). 

} lb. butter. 
1 « flour. 



OAKB. 821 

8 eggs. 

1 teaspoonful creamftarter. 

^ " Boda. 

1 lb. Bugar. 

^ pint milk. 

Lady-Cake {Ifo. 2). 4" 

1 lb. sugar. 

J " sifted flour. 

6 oz. butter. 

The wkipped whites of ten eggs. 

riavor witk bitter almond, and bake in square, not verj 
deep tins. Flavor the frosting with vanilla. The combiiuii' 
Hon is very pleasant. 

Sister Mag's Cake. 4* 

2^ cups powdered sugar. 
J cup of butter. 
1 " sweet milk. 

3 cups flour, 

4 eggs. 

1 lemon, juice and rind. 
1 small teaspoonful soda. 

Bake in a square or oblong tin, and frost with ffhitei 
of two eggs beaten stifi' with powdered sugar. 

Dover Cake. ^ 

1 lb. flour. 

1 " white sugar. 

^ " butter, rubbed with the sugar to • 

eery light cream. 
6 eggs. 
1 cup sweet milk. 



822 OOMMOBT SE^SE. 

1 teaspoonful soda d^solved in vinegar. 
1 " po'W^dered ciimamon. 

1 tablespoonful rose-water. 

Flavor the frosting -with lemon-juice. 

Chocolate Cake. »J« 

i cups of sugar. 

1 cup butter. 

The yoUss of five eggs and whites of two. 

1 cup of milk. 

3J- cups flour. 

i teaspoonful soda. 

1 " cream-tartar, sifted into the floor. 

Bake in jeUy-cake tins. 

Mhiture for fillAng. 

Whites of three eggs. 

1-J- cup sugar. 

3 tablespoonfuls grated chocolate. 

1 teaspoonful vanilla. 

Beat well together, spread between the layers %aA oi 
hip }f cake. 

Cabamel Caee. t^ 

3 cups sugar. 
\\ « butter. 

1 cup milk. 
4} cups flour. 
5 eggs. 

Small teaspoonfiil soda, 

2 teaspoonfuls cream-tartar. 



OAKS. 

Chocolate Icing (Simple). 

\ cake chocolate. 

^ cup sweet milk. 

1 tablespoonful corn-starch. 

1 teaspoonful vanilla. 

Mix together these ingredients, with the exception of 
the vanUla ; boil it two minutes (after it has fairly come to 
a boU), flavor, and then sweeten to taste with powdeied 
sugar, taking care to make it sweet enough. 

Caramels {Chocolate). 

2 cups brown sugar, 
1 cup molasses. 

1 tablespoonful (heaping) of butter. 

3 tablespoonfuls flour. 

Boil twenty-five minutes ; then stir in half a pound of 
i^ated chocolate wet in one cup of sweet milk, and boil 
until it hardens on the spoon, with which you must stir it 
fequently. Flavor with a teaspoonful of vanilla. 

Chocolate ISclaihs. 
4 eggs. 

The weight of the eggs in sugar. 
Half their weight in flour. 

^ teaspoonful soda, ) sifted well with the 

* " cream-tartar, f flour. 



If you bake these often, it will be worth your while to 
have made at the tinner's a set of small tins, about five 
Inches long and two wide, round at the bottom, and kept 
firm by strips of tin. connecting them. If you cannot get 
these, tack stiff writing-paper into the same shape, stitch- 
tog each of the little caaoes to its neighbor after the mag 



326 



COMMON SENSE. 



ner of a pontoon bridge. Have these made and buttered 
before you mix the cake ; put a spoonful of batter in each, 
and bake in a steady oven. When nearly cold, cover the 
rounded side with a caramel icing, made according to the 
foregoing receipt. ,r 

Those little cakes are popular favorites, and with a lit- 
tle piaTtice can be easily and quickly made. 



Ellie's Cake. *J« 
1 cup of sugar. 
\ " butter. 
3 eggs. 

^ cup sweet milk. 
1 teaspoonful cream-tartar, 
\ " soda, 

2^ cups flour. 

Bake in jelly-cake tins, and fill with jelly or chocolat«h 
A simple and excellent cake. 

\ Sponge Cake, i 

1 teacup powdered sugar. 

3 eggs. 

^ teaspoonful cream-tartar. 

J " soda. 

1 teacupful flour. 

Flavor with lemon — half the juice and half the rind of 
•ne. Bake twenty minutes in shallow tins. 

Mrs. M.'s Sponge-Cake. »J« 
12 eggs. 

The weight of the eggs in sugar. 
Half their weight in flour. 
1 lemon, juica <uid rind. 



OAKB. 327 

Beat yolks and whites very light, the sugar into the 
(Ormer when tl'.ey are smooth and stiff; next, the juice and 
grated peel of the lemon, then the flour ; lastly, the beaten 
whites, very lightly. 

The lady from whom I had this admirable receipt was 
solebratod among her acquaintances for her beautiful and 
lelicious sponge-cake. 

"Which should always be baked in tins like these," 
she said to me once, sportively, " or it does not taste just 
right." ■ 

The moulds were like a large brick in shape, with al- 
most perpendicular sides. 1 instantly gave an order for a 
couple precisely like them, and really fancied that cake 
baked in them was a little better than in any other form. 
But you can hardly fail of success if you prepare yours pre- 
cisely as I have directed, bake in whatever shape you will. 
Be careful that your oven is steady, and cover the cake 
with paper, to prevent burning. 

It is a good plan to line the pans in which sponge-cake 
is baked with buttered paper, fitted neatly to the side? 
and bottom. 

Pound Cake {N^o. 1). 
1 lb. sugar. 

1 " flour, 
f " butter, 
9 eggs. 

2 teaspoon^ jls cream-tartar. 
1 " soda. 

Cream the butter and sugar with great care ; beat the 
folks and whites separately ; sift the cream-tartar welt 
through the flour. Add the flour last. 



828 



COMMON SENSE. 



Pound Cake (No, 2). 

1 lb. Hour. 

1 « eggs. 

1 " sugar. 

I " butter. 

1 glass brandy. 

1 nutmeg. 

1 teaspoonful mace. 

Cream half the flour ■with the butter, and add brtindy and 
qpice. Bfcat the yolks imtil Hght, add the sugar, then the 
beaten ■whites and the rest of the flour alternately. When 
this is thoroughly mixed, put all together and beat steadilj 
for half an hour. 

If properly made and baked this is a splendid cake. 

Washington Oake. 

3 cups sugar. 
2 « butter. 
6 eggs. 

1 cup milk. 

4 cups flour. 

2 teaspoonfuls cream-tartar. 
1 teaspoonful soda. 

Mix as usual and stir in, at the last, 
■J- lb. currants ■well ■washed and dredged, 
J " raisius seeded and chopped fine, then floured. 
A handful of citron sliced fine. 
Cinnamon and nutmeg to taste. 

Fruit-cake takes lons;er to bake than plain, and the kea' 
most be kept steady, 

Lincoln Cake. 
1 lb, butter. 

1 " sugar. 



OXES. 329 

1 lb, floui, 
6 egga. 

2 cups sour cream or milk. 
1 grated nutmeg. 

1 teaspoonful powdered cinnamon. 

1 tablespoonful rose-water. 

1 teaspoonful soda dissolved in hoi water, and stirred 

into the TnilV just before adding the latter to the 

cake. 

Cream the butter and sugar, put with them the yolks 
whipped light, then the cream and spice, next the flour, 
then the rose-water, and a double-handful of citron cut in 
BUps and dredged ; finally, the beaten whites of the eggs. 
Stir aU well, and bake in a loaf or in a " card," using a 
square shallow baking-pan. 

This is a good cake and keeps well. 

Black or WEDDiiirG Cake. 

1 lb. powdered sugar. 

1 « butter. 

1 « flour. 

12 eggs. 

1 lb. currants well washed and dredged. 

1 " raisins seeded and chopped. 

J " citron cut into slips. 

1 tablespoonful cinnamon. 

2 teaspoonfuls nutmeg. 
1 " cloves. 
1 wineglass brandy. 

Cream the butter and sugar, add the beaten yolks of th« 
sggs, and stir all well together before putting in half of the 
flour. The spice should come next, then the whipped 



830 COMMON BENSB. 

whites stirred in alternately ■with the rest of the flow 
lastly the brandy. 

The above quantity is for two large cakes. Bake ai 
least two hours in deep tins lined with well-buttered pa- 
()er. 

Tlie icing should be laid on stiff and thickly. Thia 
cake, if kept in a cool, dry place, will not spoil in two 
months. 

I have eaten wedding-cake a year old. 

Test the cakes well, and be sure thef are quite dona 
before taking them from the oven. 

Fruit-Cake {plnmer). 

1 lb. powdered sugar, 
1 " flour. 
I « butter. 

7 eggs. 

■J- lb. currants — washed, picked over, and dredged. 
J " raisins — seeded and chopped, then dredged. 
^ " citron cut into sUps. 
1 teaspbonful nutmeg. 
1 « cinnamon. 

1 glass brandy. 

Cream butter and sugar ; add the beaten yolks, then 
the spice and the whipped whites alternately with th« 
flour ; the fruit and brandy last. 

Almond Cakx. 

1 lb. powdered sugar. 
1 « flour, 
i « butter. 

8 eggs. 



OAKE. 331 

1 Coffee-cupful s\»eet almonds, blanched by putting tbem 

into hot water, and, when stripped of their skinj 
and perfectly cold, beaten to a smooth paste in a 
Wedgewood mortar, with a little rose-water and half » 
teaspoonful essence of bitter almonds. 

Beat whites and yolks separately ; stir butter and sugar 
to a cream ; add to this the yolks ; beat very hard before 
putting in the flour ; stir in the almond-paste alternately 
with the whites. Put in the brandy last. 

Season the icing with rose-water. 

Nut-Cake. ^ 

2 cups sugar. 
1 cup butter. 

3 cups flour. 

1 cup cold water. 

4 eggs. 

1 teaspoonful soda. 

2 teaspoonfuls cream-tartar. 

2 cupfuls kernels of hickory-nuts or wLite walnuts, 
carefully picked out, and added last of all. 

(Gold Cake.j»J« 

1 lb. sugar. 

i « butter. 

1 « flour. 

Yolks of ten eggs — ^well beaten. 

Grated riud of one orange, and juice of two lemoDfk 

1 teaspoonful soda dissolved in hot water. 

Cream the butter and sugar, and stir in the yolksi 
Beat very hard for five minutes before putting in the flour. 
The soda next, and lastly the lemon-juice, in which the 
grated orange-peel should have been steeped and strained 



832 COMMON BEN8E. 

out in a piece of thin muslin, leaving the flayoring and 
coloring matter in the juice. 

Flavor the icing also with lemon. 

Silver Cake. 4* 
1 lb. sugar. 
} « flour. 
i " butter. 

Whites of ten eggs — ^whipped very stiflEl 
1 large teaspoonful essence bitter almonds. 

Cream butter and sugar ; put next the whites of the 
eggs ; then the flour, lastly the flavoring. 

Make gold and silver cake on the same day ; bake them 
in tins of corresponding size, and lay them in alternate 
slices in the cake-basket. Elavor the icing of silver cake 
with rose-water. 

AliMOND MaCAEOONS. 

Prepare the almonds the day before you make the cakes, 
by blanching them in boUing water, stripping ofi' the skins, 
and pounding them when perfectly cold — a few at a time — 
in a Wedgewood mortar, adding from time to time a little 
rose-water. When beaten to a smooth paste, stir in, to a 
pound of the sweet almonds, a generous tablespoonful of 
essence of bitter almonds ; cover closely, and set away in a 
cold place imtil the morrow. Then to a pound of the nuts 
allow : — 

1 lb. powdered sugar. ^ 

The beaten whites of eight eggs, and 
1 teaspoonful nutmeg. 

Stir the sugar and white of egg lightly together ; then 
*rLip in gradually the ahnond-paste. 

Line a broad baking-pan with buttered white paper; 



(D 
D) 
CD 
CL 



(0 






(Q 

Tl 

(Q 
CD 



(D 
D) 
CD 
CL 



(0 






(Q 

Tl 

(Q 
CD 



OOOEIES, BTO. 337 

with the hands into small cakes, and bake in a steadj rathei 
than quick oven, as thej are apt to burn. 

Qinoer-Snaps {No. 1). 
1 cup butter. 
1 " molasses. 
1 " sugar. 
} " sweet milk. 

1 teaspoonful saleratus. 

2 " ginger. 

Flour for tolerably stiff dough. 

Ginger-Snaps (iVb. 2). ^ 

1 large cup butter and lard mixed. 

1 coffee-cup sugar. 

1 cup molasses. 

^ " water. 

1 tablespoonful ginger, 

1 " cinnamon. 

1 teaspoonfid cloves. 

1 " soda dissolved in hot water. 

Flour for pretty stiff dough. 

Roll out rather thinner than sugai: cakes, and bake 
quickly. These ginger-snaps will keep for weeks, if loek4d 
up. 

Ginoer-Snaps {No. 3). 

1 pint molasses. 

1 teacup sugar. 

1 tablespoonful ginger. 

1 *■ " allspice. 

1 cup Dutter. 

6 cups flour. 

Roll thin and cut into smaU cakes. Bake in quick oren. 
15 



838 OOHMON SKETBX. 

AUKT MabGABET's JUUBUEg. 

1 cup butter. 

2 cups sugar. 
1 teacup luilk. 
5 eggs. 

1 teaspoouful soda dissolved in boiling water. 
1 " nutmeg. 

Sufficient flour to make soft dough. Eoll out, cut into 
ghapeSj and sift sugar over them before they go into the 
oven, 

Lehon Juhblhs. 
1 egg. 

1 teacupful sugar. 
\ " butter. 

3 teaspoonfuls milk. 

1 " cream-tartar. 
\ " soda. 

2 small lemons, juice of two and grated rind of one. 

Mix rather stiff. Boll and cut out with a cake-cutter, 

EiNO JUUBLES. 

1 lb. butter. 

1 " sugar. ^ 

4 eggs. 

1-J lb. flour, or enough to make out a soft dough. 

Wineglass (small) rose-water. 

Cream the butter and sugar, add the beaten yolks, then 
the rose-water, next half the flour, lastly the -whites, stirrod 
in very lightly, alternately with the remaining flour. Havo 
ready a pan, broad and shallow, lined on the bottom with 
battered paper. With a tablespoon form regular ring* cf 



JVHBLES, OASES, ETO. (39 

the dough upon this, leaving a hole in the centre of eack 
Hake quickly, and sift fine sagar over them as soon as the; 
are done. 

You loaj substitute lemon or vaniUa for the rose- water 

Mrs. M.'s Jdubles. 
1 cup sugar. ' 
1 " butter. 
J " sour cream. 
1 egg. 

1 teaspoonful soda, dissolved in hot water. 
Nutmeg to taste. 

Bake Jn rings, as directed in previous receipt. 

- .' ■♦ * 
' AiMOKD Jumbles. 
1 lb. sugar. 

1 « flour. 
} « butter. 

1 -teacup "loppered" milk. 
Sfggs. 

2 tablespoonfuls rose-water. 

J lb. almondfe, blanqhed and chopped small, but noi 
<^l pounded. « 

1 teaspoonful soda dissolved in boiling water. ^ -, 

Cream, Jitter, and sugar ; stir ia the beaien yolks, th« 
milk, the flour, and the rose-water, the almonds, lastly the 
beaten whites very lightly and quickly. 'Drop in rings or 
round cakes upon buttered paper, and bake immediately. 

You may substitute grate^ cocoanut, or the chopped 
kernels of white walnuts, for the almonds, in which caM 
■dl a little salt. 



S«0 OOMHOS BENBE. 

CuBKAin Cakxs. 
1 lb. flour. 
^ " butter. 
} " sugar. 
4 eggs, 

i lb. currants, well v/ashed aud dredged. 
y-^.teaspclinful soda dissolved r^ot water. •• 
^^-l^l^mon, grated rind and juice. 
1 ^teaspoonful cinnamon. 
.l>r jp from a spoon upon well-buttered paper, liimtg i 
lti»iing-«ftn. Bake quickly. '^h,*^*'.- 

Drop SpoirGE-ciW^*^^fc 

^ lb. powdered sugar, fgr 

i " flour. # • 

4 egs^s-Jtyolks and whites separate, and betten very 

stiir. ^ 

1 lemon — alfthe juice, and half the grated rind. 
Drop \mfi bifjtiered paper, not too near together. Tr 
tme, and l^^runs,'beat the' m^ure some minutes long( 
hard, addih^a very little flour. Jour oven should'be very 
quick, and^bfl|Cake3 a d^ijicate ye|ft)w brown. 

• • Laby's Fingers , ^ 

A re mSed like drop sponge-cakes, but disposed upon the 
paper in lon^ n^row cakes. They are ve^ll^B dipnea 

in chooolate icing, or caramel. T- 

* ^^ * 

Aunt SIarq^mt'b Ckullebs. 4* 1lf ' 

1 lb. butt^i-y^ 

IJ lb. i»®|red sugar. 

12 e^,^*" 

Mace and nulaiMig to tastier 
• Flour to roll oiit-^tiflF.: 




1 teaspc^emlbljxutmeg. "5>,, "-^i - 

^ " Aiimamon, 

Flour to roIi|}ut iu pretty soft dougk. 

Out into Bha^lli, tmd fiy in hot lard. 

O A BOt*r'€llNOEBBR£AD. *{• 

1 cup butter. 

1 " molasses. 

1 " sugar. 

X " sour or buttermilk. 

1 teaspoonful soda dissolved in boiling water. 

1 tablospoonful ginger. 

1 teaspoonful cinnamon. 

2 eggs. • ^ 

Aiout five cups of flour — enough to make it thick aji 
FUip-cake batter, perhaps a trifle thicker. Work in'fotu 
(.rups first, and add ^ery cautiously. '^-' i'^ , 4^ 

Stir butter, sugar, mplasses, and - spice together to a 
Ighi cream, set them £n the range until slightly warm; 
ueat the eggs light; add the miUc to the warmed mixture, 
then the eggs, the soda, ^d lastly the flour. Beat very 
^hard i>en miuuta^and bake afc^once in a loaf, or in HmaU 
rans. Half ar'jKnd raisins, seeded and cut in hjalf^ will 
jmpiove this excellent gingerbreaA Dredge^them weL 
befoi'4 putting them in, ' Add them at the last. 

Sfonoe Gingsrbbead {eggless). •{4 

6 cups flour. 

1 leaping tablespoonful butter. 

1 cup molasses. 

1 ' " sugar, >u 

1 " milk (sour is best). 

3 teaspoonfuls saieratus, not soda, dissolved in It'll water 



844 ' COMMON 

V'S fcaspjoiiluls ginger. 

1 ^ " cinnamon. 

Mix the molasses, sugar, biitteif, and spice together j 
warm them slightly, and beat untb they are lighter in col- 
or by many degrees than when yom begaji. Add the milk, 
then the soda, and having mixed all well^^put in the flour. 
Beat very Imrd five minutes, and bake in a. broad, shallo-w 
pan, 01 ^ pdtS-tina. Half a- pound of seeded raisins cut 
in pieces will be a pleasant addition. ' ♦• ' 

Try this gingerbread warm for tea or luncheon, with 
a cup of hot chocolate to accompany it, and you will soon 
repeat the experiment. 

Plain Ginci!^b^^ad. 

2 cups molasses. 
i " l^rd. 

• i " ^- * 

2 teaspoonfiils soda dissolved in hot water. 

2 tablcBpoonfuls ginger. 

1 cup sour ftiilk. 

Thicken with flour to a soft dou^. 

Warm the mplasses, lard, butter, aa^i^ger, and beat 
them ten minutes before adding th^ v^t''*' ^^^ flour. 
Roll out, cut into shapes, and'lSaifg ])>' ,||pdr^, but not 
too hot oven. Keep in a tight "trD box. xJrush^'ser with 
white of egg wliile Hot. 

Gingerbread Loat (No, 1). 

1 cup butter. 

1 " molasses. 

1 " sugar. 

^ " cold wat«r. 

1 tableapoonfdl ginger 



I 

' OOTOERBEEAD. 846 



1 teaspoonful (^tmamon. ^~~~^= ^L 

1 " soda, dissolved in boiliiig watei. 

Flour to make stiff batter. 
Melt the butter, slightly warm the molasses, spice, and 
eugar, and beat together ten minutes. Then put in thp 
water, soda, and flour. Stir very hard, and bake in three 
amall loaves. Brush them over with syrup while hot, and 
eat fresh. 

Loaf Gingeebkeab (No 2). 

1 cup butter. 

2 cups molasses. 

1 tablespoonful ginger. 

2 eggs, very well beaten. 
1 teaspoonful saleratus. 

1 cup milk, sweet or sour. If sour, heap your epoOB 
with saleratus. 

Flour to the consistency of pound-cake. 

Spiced Gingerbbeao. 

1 lb. flour. 
1 " sugar. 
i « butter. 

^ tea^ liui ^ % dissolved m hot w»ter. 

1 . I'^'-i ., creani-tai'tar. 

3 tablespoonful t. .veet milk. 

1 large tablespoonful ginger. 

1 teaspoonful cloves. 

1 " nutmeg. 

1 " cinnamon. 

Cieam the sugar and butter, stir in the beaten yolks, 
the inilk and spice, Ihe soda, and when these are well mixed 
thi flour. Bake in two square or round loaves. 
15* 




Ibo&fC GiNGEBBIffiia 

1 '^^ of butter. 

2 cups of sugar. 

1 cup sour cream or milk. 

3 egga. *. 

1 teaspoonfbl soda dissolved in hot water. 

2 tablespoonfuls ginger, 
1 teaspoonful cinnamon. 

6 J- cups of flour, or enough to roll out aofi. Cat ii 
shapes, brush over with white of egg whQe hot, and bake. 

Bread Cake. 

On baking-day, take from your dough, after its second 
rising — 2 cups risen dough. Have ready, also — 

2 cups white sugar. 

1 cup butter, creamed with the sugar." 

3 egga. 

1 teaspoonful soda, dissolved in hot water. 

2 tablespoonfuls sweet milk — cream is better. 
^ lb. currants, well washed and dredged. 

1 teaspoonful nutmeg. 

1 " cloves. 

Beat the yolks very light, add the creamed butter and 
BJgar, the spice, milk, soda, and dough. Stir until all are 
well mixed ; put in the beateln whites, lastly the fruit. 
Beat hard five minutes, let it rise twenty minutes in two 
ire]l-))uttered pans, and bake half an hour or until done, 

Fruii Ginqerbrkao, 

2 Us. flour. 
{ " butter. 
1 " sugar. 



1 lb. raisbi%jKeded and chopped. ^ ^ 

1 " currsaAwell 'vrashed. 

2 cups rndfifl^^ 
^ cup sour creapi. 
6 eggs. 

1 heaping j^spoonful soda dissolred in hot water. 

2 tablespoonfuli ginger. 
1 teaspoouful cinnamon. 
1 " cloves. 

Oi earn the butter and sugar, warm the molasses slightly, 
»nd beat these together ; then the beaten yolks, next the 
■nilk and spice, the soda, the flour and whites, well whip- 
i>ed ; lastly the fruit, which must be thickly dredged. Beat 
well before bakiug. 

A little citron, shred fine, is an improvement. Bake in 
(wo broad pans, in a moderate oven. This cake will keep 
u long time. 

Sweet Wafers. 

6 eggs. 

1 pint flour. 

2 oz. melted butter. 

IJ cup powdered sugar. 

1 cup milk. 

1 teaspoonful nutmeg. 

Beat whites and yolks separately and very stiff, rub the 
sugar and biitter together, and work in first the yolks, then 
the milk, then the flour and whites. Bake in well-but- 
tered wafer or waflfle irons, very qiiickly, browning as little 
as possible. Boll them while hot upon a smooth, rounc 
stick, not larger than your little finger, slipping it out care- 
fully •when the cake takes the right shape. 

Iheso little cakes are an acceptable addition to an;f 



348 COMMON 8EN8B.' 

tea. ^supper tableland look well au^ong fane; cakes in i 
basket, 

BosTOK Cream Cakes, >{• 

^ lb. butter. 
I " flour, 
8 eggB. 
1 pint water. 

Stir the butter into the water, which should be warm, 
eoi it on the fire in a saucepan, and slowly bring to a boU, 
stirring it often. When it boils, pvit in the flour, boil one 
minute, stirring all the while ; take from the fire, tiirn into 
a deep dish, and let it cool. Beat the eggs very light, and 
whip into this cooled paste, first the yolks, then the whites. 

Drop, in great spoonfuls, upon buttered paper, taking 
care not to let them touch or run into each other, and bake 
ten minutes. 

Cream for filing. 

1 quart milk. 

4 tablespoonfids corn-starch, 

2 eggs. 

2 cups sugar. 

Wet the com-starch with enough milk to work it iat« 
a smooth paste. Boil the rest of the milk. Beat the eggSi 
add the sugar and corn-starch to these, and so soon as the 
milk boils pour in the mixture gradually, stirring all the 
time until smooth and thick. Drop in a teaspoonful of but- 
ter, and when this is mixed in, set the custard aside to cool. 
Tlien add vanilla or lemon seasoning; pass a sharp knife 
lightly around the puffs, split them, and fill with the mix 
tiire. 

The best cream cakes I have ever tasted were made bj 
bhis somewhat odd receipt. 

Try it. 



PIBB. SM 



Nougat. 



1 lb.\sweot almonds. 

J " "fine white sugar. 

1 tabisspoonful rose-water. 

Blanch the ahuonds in boiling water. When stripped 
of their skins, throw them into ice-water for five minutes. 
Take them out and dry between two cloths. Shave with 
a small knife into thin slips. Put them into a slow oven 
until they are very slightly colored. Meanwhile, melt the 
sugar — without adding water — in a porcelain, kettle over 
the fire, stirring it all the while to keep it from burning. 
When it bubbles up and is quite melted take off the kettle 
and instantly stir in the hot almonds. Have ready a tin 
pan or mould, well buttered and slightly warmed. Pour 
In the nougat ; press it thin and flat to the bottom of the 
pan if you mean to cut it into strips ; to all sides of the 
mould if you intend to fill it with syllabub or macaroons. 
Let it cool in the mould, for the latter purpose, withdraw- 
ing it carefully when you want it. If you cut it up, do it 
while it is still warm — not hot. 

The syrup should be a bright yeUow before putting in 
the almonds. 



PIES, 

TJse none but the best butter in pastry. 

" Cooking butter is a good thing," said a grave epicure 
to me once, " an admirable thing — in its place, which is in 
the soap-fat kettle or upon wagon-wheels ! " 

It is certainly out of place in biscuits, cake, or in a/ij 
Bubstance destined for human palates and stomachs. It it 
never less in place than in pastry ; never betc\ys iis vile 
Bess more surely and odiously. 



3^0 ' tS&iZMON SENJIfc; 

BttkfeFinten3e3 :Kir -pafStay shoftlU ^ washed carefnilj 
ireral clear, cold waters, and koeaded while undei 
water, to a xtract the salt. Then 'v^pe it diy, and lay it in a 
eoli'. iilace jntil you are ready to work it in 

" Keep cool," is a cardinal motto for pastiy-makers. 
A Tuaj ble slab is a good thing to r^ out paste upon. Next 
to this, the best article is a clean bMtrd of hard wood, which 
is never used for any other purpose. It is harder to make 
good pastry in warm weather than eold, on account of the 
tendency of the butter to oil, and thus render the crust 
heavy and soUd. 

Few people know what really good pastry is. Fewer 
still can make it. It has no inevitable resemblance either 
to putty or leather. It is light, crisp, flaky, goodly to be- 
hold — ^goodlier to the taste, 

" Pork fat and pies kill more people yearly in the 
United States than do liquor and tobacco," said a popular 
lecturer upon conservatism. 

Perhaps so ; but I incline to the belief that bad pastry 
is answerable for a vast majority of the murders. Not that 
I recommend pies of any description as heaJthfui daily food 
- —least of all for children. But since they are eaten freely 
all over our land, let us make them as wl»-jle*a'me )»»d par 
latable as possible. 

Family Pie-Ckust (No. 1^ «f» 

1 quart flour. 

^ lb. lard, sweet and firm. 

I " butter. 

1 small teacup ice-water. 

Sift the flour into a deep wooden bow) Witb & Wo*!.*- 
bladed knife, or a stcbR keen " chopper,' aut up the lard 
into the flour until it is fine as dust. Wei witli ice 



PIEB. S51 



water into a stiff deiiigb, woCf^ilgt it^'W^ a wooder: Bj»on 
untU obliged to makf it into a roll or ball wjl^ your hands 
Flour tbese, and knead the paste into shape with as fefl 
strokes as will effeo^your end. Lay the lump upon a 
floured kneading-boq^d oMd roll it out into a thin, sheet, 
always rolling from you with q\iick, light action. When 
thin enough, stick bits of butter in regular close rows ali 
over the sheet, using a knife for this purpose rather than 
your hands. Roll up the paste into close folds as you 
woul.l a sheet of music. Flatten it that your rolling-pin 
can tcoke hold, and roll out again as thin as before. Baste, 
roll up and then out, until your butter is gone. It is a 
good plan to sprinkle the inside of each sheet with a littk 
flour after buttei-iiig it, before making it into a roll. Finally, 
make out your crust ; butter your pie-plates, lay the paste 
lightly within them, cut it off evenly about the edges after 
fitting it neatly ; gather up the scraps left from cutting, 
and make into another sheet. If the pies are to have a 
top crust,, fill the plates with fruit or whatever you have 
ready, lay the paste on this, cut it to fit, and press down 
the edges to prevent the escape of the juice, with a spoon, 
knife, or jagging-iron, ornamenting it in a regular figure. 

Bake in a moderate oven until a light brown. Be 
particularly careful to have your heat as great at the 
bottom as at the top, or the lower crust will be clammy 
and raw. 

Pastry is always best when fresh. 

It is well, when you can spare the time, to lay the roU, 
when all the butter is used up, in a very cold place for fif- 
teen minutes or so before rolling it into crust. Indeed, 
Bome good housewives let it stand on the ice an hour in hot 
veatLcr. They say it tends to make it flaky as well as firm 

Touch as little with yocr hards as may be practicablo. 



852 COMMON 8ENS£^ 

TiMfEY Pie-Ckust (iTo. 2). 4" 

1 lb. flour. 
i " butter. 

1 teaspoonfiil Boda. 

2 teaspoonfuls cream-tartar. 
Ice-water to make into a stiiF dough. 

Chap half the butter intO' the flour until it looks lika 
yellcw sand (sift the soda and cream-tartar with the flour, 
passing it through the sieve twice to make sure it is well 
mixed) ; work with ice-water into stiff dough ; roll into a 
thin sheet, baste with one-third the remaining butter, fold 
up closely into a long roU, flatten and re-roU, then baste 
again. Repeat this operation three times, until the butter 
is gone, when make out your crust. 

This is an easy and sure receipt, and the paste very 
fine. 

French Poff-Pastb. »J« 

1 lb. flour. 

f « butter. 

1 egg ; use the yolk only. 

Ice-water. 

Chop half the butter into the flour ; stir the beaten egg 
into half a cup ice-water, and work the flour into a stiff 
dough ; roll out tJdn, baste with one-tliird the remaining but- 
ter, fold closely, roU out again, and so on until the buttei ia 
used up. Roll very thin, and set the last folded roll in a 
very cold place ten or fifteen minutes before making out 
the crust. Wash witli beaten egg while hot. This paste if 
very nice for ayster-pdtes as well as for fruit- pies. 



FIEB. 369 

i PuPF-i'ASTE. 

1 pint floiir.! 

i lb. butter.\ 

1 egg, -well beaten. Use the yolk only. 

1 gill ice-water. 
Mix the flour, a tablespoonful of butter, the beaten egg 
•nd ice-water into a paste with a wooden spoon. Flout 
your pastry-board, and roll out the crust very thin. Put 
the rest of the butter, when you have washed it, in the 
centre of this sheet, in a flat cake. Turn the four comers 
of the paste over it, and roll out carefully, not to break the 
paste. Should it give way, flour the spot, that it may not 
stick to the roller. When very thin, sprinkle lightly with 
flour, fold up, and roll out four times more. Set in a cool 
place for an hour, roll out again, and cut into tartlet-shells 
or top crust for pies. 

The bottom crust of pies may often bo made of plalnei 
pastry than the upper. 

Tkassparent Chust. ( Very rich.) 

1 lb. flour. 

1 " butter. 

1 egg — the yolk only. 
Wash the butter, dry, and then melt it in a vessel set 
in another of boiling water, stirring gently all the while to 
prevent oiling. Take off the salty scum from the top, and 
when almost cold beat up the butter little by little with the 
egg, which should be previously whipped light. When 
these are thoroughly' incorjiorated work in the flour, roll 
out twice, sprinkling lightly with flour before you fold it 
np ; let it stand folded five minutes in a cold place, and 
wake out for tartlets cr pdtes. It is not suitable for larg« 
pies. Bake before you fiU theni, and brush over with i 
Veaten egg while hot. 



354 ^..^iioMMON m 



4 11)8. meat— t. e,, two-thirda a^pe, one-tliird meat. 
3 " raisins, seeded and cfaoppell. 

2 " currants, washed, pickefialkeT, and Iiied. 

3 quarts cider. 
1 pint brandy, 

1 heaping tablespoonful cinnamon. 

1 " " nutmeg. 

The same of cloves, and half the quantity of mace. 
Make very sweet with brown sugar. 

The meat should be a good piece of lean beef, boiled 
Jx' dbT' before it is needed. Half a pound of raw suet, 
ehoppea "^ne, may be added. Chop the meat, clean out 
bits of skjv and gristle, and mix with twice the quantity 
of fine juiiy apples, also chopped; then put in the fruit, 
next the sugar and spice, lastly the liquor. Mix very thor- 
oughly, cover closely, and let all stand together for twenty- 
fo ir hours before making the pies. 

Mince Piks (i\7b. 2). 4" 

2 lbs. lean &esh beef, boiled, and when cold, chopped 

fine. 

1 lb. beef-suet, cleared of strings and minced to powder, 

5 lbs. apples, pared and chopped. 

2 " raisins, seeded and chopped. 

1 lb. sultana idisins, washed and picked over. 

2 lbs. currants, washed and cmrefvUy picked 0T9r. 
f lb. citron, cut up fine. 

2 tablespoonfuls cinnamon. 

1 powdered nutmeg. 

2 tablespoonfuls mace. 
1 tablespoonful cloves. 
I " allspice. 




ass 

1 tablespoonfuli 
2^ lbs. brown si: 
1 quart brown 
1 pint best brandv.^ 

Mince-meat made by this receipt will keep all ■winter in 
• cool place. Keep in stone jars, tied over with double 
ccvers. Add a little more liquor (if it should dry out), 
when you make up a batch of pies. Let the mixture stand 
at least fcwenty-four hours after it is made before it is used. 

Lay strips of pastry, notched with a jagging-iron, in a 
cross-bar pattern, upon the pie, instead of a top-crust. 

I take this opportunity of warning the innocent reader 
■against placing any confidence whatever in dried currants. 
I years ago gave over trying to guess who put the dirt in 
'uhem. It is always there ! gravel-stones lurking imder a 
apecious coaling of curranty-looking paste, to ciiicify grown 
ipeople's neiires and children's teeth; mould that changes 
to mud in the mouth ; twigs that prick the throat, not to 
mention the legs, wings, and bodies of tropical insects — a 
curious study to one interested in the entomology of Zante. 
It is all dirt I although sold to us at currant prices. 

Wash your currants, therefore, first in warm water, 
rolling up your sleeves, and rubbing the conglomerate 
masses apart, as you would scrub a muddy garment. Drain 
them in a cullender, and pass them through three more 
waters — cold now, but cleansing. Then spread them upon 
a large dish, and enter seriously upon your geological and 
entomological researches. " Sultanas " — sweet and seed- 
less — are nearly as troublesome, but their specialty is mora 
harmless, being stickiness and stems. 

Nevertheless, since John has a weakness for mince-pies 
(1 never saw an un-dyspeptic man who had not), it is worth 
your while to make them, having this consolation, that if 



856 C!0MM01I.»gfflTfE). 

voa are wlise you need not engage in the manufacture of 
tener than onue, or at most, twice a, winter. But let th« 
children taste them sparingly, and I never at night, if you 
value their health and your own sound sIumberB, 

Apple Mince-Meat. 

2 lbs. apples — pared and chopped. 
|- lb. beef suet- — cleared of strings and powdered. 
1 " currants. 

^ " raisins, seeded and chopped. 
i " sultana raisins. 
^ " citron, cut into shreds. 
I lemon — -juice and grated rind. 
1 tablespoonful cinnamon. 
1 teaspoonful cloves. 
1 " mace. 

1 tablespoonful allspice. 

2 lbs. brown sugar. 
Half-pint best brandy. 
A glass of wine. 

2 teaspoonfuls sal'.. 

Pack down in a stone jar, with close cover and keep ia 
B cool place. 

Mock Mince-Meat, tj* 

6 soda- crackers — rolled fine. 

2 cups cold water. 

1 cup molasses. 

1 " brown sugar. 

1 " sour cider. 

1^ cup melted butter. 

1 cup raisins — seeded and chopped. 

I " currants 



^OEg; 851 

i «gg8 — beatenl light. 

1 tablespoonfulWumamon and allspice mLted. 

] teaspoonful uil^tmeg. 

1 " olives. 

1 « salt. 

1 " black pepper. 

1 wineglass of brandy. 

" Miace-pie in summer is a pleasant rarity," -was th» 
tiimark of a party of hungry travellers, in semi-apology foi 
tlie fact that every plate made a return joiu-ney to the 
comely landlady, who was dispensing generous triangles of 
. pie. She smiled gratifiedly, but said nothing in reply, un- 
til, when the gentlemen had stroUed off to the woods with 
their cigars, she came upon me, seated alone on the piazza, 
and grew confidential under the influence of that sort of 
frue-masoidc understanding housekeepers have with one 
another, almost at sight. 

" I had to laugh," said the good soul, " when they 
praised my mince-pies. They're healthfuller in summer- 
rime than the real thing." 

I took down the receipt on the spot from her Ups. If 
Kny one doubts the merits of the counterfeit, let her do as I 
did — trv it. 

Applb Pie (iVo. 1). »J« 

Pare, core, and slice ripe, tart winter apples — Pippins, 
Greenings, or Baldwins — line your dish with a good crust, 
put in a layei of fruit, then sprinkle light-brown sugar 
tMckly over it, scatter half a dozen whole cloves upon this 
lay on more apples, and so on, imtil the dish is well filled. 
Cover with crust and bake. Sift powdered sugar over th« 
top before sending to table. 



i|S oc 

Apple Pie {N^ih 1). 4" 

Stew green or ripe apples wMtt you have paied and 
cored them. Mash to a smooth cc^jMjte, sweeten to taste, 
and, while hot, stir in a teaspoonjjii Wtter for each pie. 
Season with nutmeg. When colft fiU jour crust, and 
either cross-bar the top with strips' oi paste, or bake with 
oat cover. 

Eat cold, with powdered sugar strewed over it. 

Apple Custabd Pie. ►£« 

"^3 cups stewed apple. 
Nearly a cup white sugar, 
6 eggs. 
1 quart milk. 

Make the stewed apple very sweet, and let it cool. Bodt 
the eggs light, and mix the yolks well with the apple, sea- 
soning with nutmeg only. Then stir in j,raduaUy the milk, 
beating as you go on ; lastly add the whites ; fiU your crust 
and bake without cover. 

Apple M^inoue Pies. >!« 

Stew and sweeten ripe, juicy apples, when you have' 
pared and sliced them. Mash smooth, and season with 
nutmeg. If yoh like the flavor, stew some lemon-peel with 
the apple, and remove when cold. Fill your crust, and 
bake until just done. Spread over the apple a thick 
m^ingue, made by whipping to a stiff froth the whites of 
three eggs for each pie, sweetening with a tablespoon ful 
of powdered sugar for each egg. Flavor tliis with rose- 
water or vanilla; beat until it will stand alone, and covei 
the pie three-quarters of an ingli thick. Set back in ths 
oven until the meringue is well " set." Should it coloi too 
darkly, sift powdered sugar over it when cold. Eat cold. 



PIB8. JS&9 

They are very fine^ 

Peach pies are even mo^e delicious, ma.Ie in this nianjneiv 

Pippin Pies. 

1 2 fine lipe pippins, pared and grated. 

1 lb. white sugap 

■J lb. butter 

6 eggs — whiles and yolks separately beaten. 

1 lemon — grated peel and juice, with nutmeg. 
Cream the butter and sugar, stir in the beaten yoUu, 
tben the lemon, nutmeg, and apple ; lastlJHSLe whites, yer ' 
lightly. Bake in paste, with cross-bars of the same on toj 

Pumpkin Pie (No. 1), ^ 

1 quart stewed pumpkin — pressed through a sieve. 
9 eggs — whites and yolks beaten separately. 

2 quarts milk. 

1 teaspoonful mace. 

1 " cinnamon, and the same of nutmeg. 

1^ cup white sugar, or very light brown. 
Beat all well together, and bake in crust without covet 

Pumpkin Pie (No. 2). 

1 quart pumpkin — stewed and strained. 
1 « milk, 
1 cup sugar. 

7 eggs — beaten very light. 

1 teaspoonfid .'finger, and same of mace and cinnamoB 
each. 

Squash Fie 

b made precisely like p-Qpipkin pie, except thati being 
less rich, it req'iirra one more egg for each pie. 



P> 



S6& OOMHON JENSS. 

SWEKT-POTATO PlE (Ko. 1). 

Parboil, skin, and slice cross-wise firm sweet potatoea, 
Line a dish with paste, put in a' layer of sliced potato, 
sprinkle thickly with sugar, scatter among them a tew 
whole cloves, and cover with more slices. Fill the dish in 
•ibis order ; put a tablespoonful of melted butter in each 
pie ; pour in a little water ; cover with crust, and bake. 

Eat cold. 

SwmT-PoTATO Pie (No. 2). ►{" 

1 lb. mealy sweet potatoes. The firm yellaw one« 

are best. 
^ cup butter. 
f " white sugar. 
1 tablespoonful cinnamon. 
1 teasjjoonful nutmeg. 

4 eggs — whites and yolks beaten separately. 
i lemon, juice and rind, and glass of brandy. 

J'twhoU the potatoes, and grate them when quite cold, 
if grated hot, they are sticky and heavy. Cream the but- 
ter and sugar ; add the yolk, the spice, and lemon ; beat 
&.e potato in by degrees and until all is light ; then the 
brandy, and stir in the whites. Bake in dishes lined with 
good paste— without cover. 

You may make a pudding of this by baking in a deep 
dish — well butteied, without paste. Cool before eating. 

Irish-Potato Pie {or Pudding). »J" 

1 lb. mashed potato, rubbed through a cullender. 

^ lb. butter — creamed with the sugar. 

6 e^s — ^whites and yolks separately. 

1 lomon — squeezed into 4 he potato while hot 



PIEB. 361 

1 teaspoonful nutmeg, and same of mace. 

2 cups white sugar. 

Mix as you do sweet potato pudding, and bak^ in open 
ihells of paste. To be eaten cold. 

Leuon Pie {or Transparent Pvdding). ►!« 

\ lb. butter. 

1 lb. sugar. 

6 eggs — whites and yolks separately. 

Juice of one lemon. 

#- 

Grated rind of two. 

1 nutmeg. 

\ glass brandy. 

Cream butter and sugar, beat in the yolks, the lemony ^ 
qiice, and brandy, stirring in the whites at the last. 

Bake in pie-crust, open. 

You may, if you wish to have these very nice, beat up 
the whites of but four eggs in the mixture, and whip the 
ifhites of four more into a meringue with four tablespoon- 
Tuls sugar and a Kttle lemon-juice, to spread over the top 
of each pie. 

Eat cold. They are very nice baked in pattypans. 

Lemon Pie {No. 2). 

1 apple, chopped fine. 
1 egg. 

"1 lemon, chop the inside very fine and grate the rind. 
1 cup sugar. 
Butter, the size of a walnut. 

This is just enough for one pie. Take the thick whit« 
riad off the lemon before you ohojt it. Take out the seeds 
carefully. 

16 



362, COMMON SENSE. 



Lemon Cream Pie. •{• 



jo'vrdered sugar, 
loonfcd butter. 




ton — juice and grated rind, removing the aeedn witli 



•e. 



iacupful boiling water. 
Htablespoonful corn-starch, diis8olye4 in cold water. 

.Stir the corn-starch into the water, cream the biittei 
a^di sugar, and pour over them the hot mixture. When 
^iite cool, add lemon and the beaten egg. Tako the inner 
rind off^e lemon and mince very small. 

^Bake in open shell. 

Lemon Pie (J^To. 3). 

3 eggs. 

1 great spoonfiil butter. 

■f- cup white sugar. 

Juice and grated peel of lemon. 

Bake in open shelis of paste. 

Cream the sugar and butter, stir in the beaten jolhii 
and the lemon, and bake. Beat the whites to a stiff me- 
ringue with three tablespoonfuls powdered sugar and »■ lit. 
tie rose-water. When the pies are done, take from the 
oven just long enough to spread the m6ringue over the top, 
and set back for three minutes. This mixture is enoTigli 
for two small, or one good-sized pie. 

Eat cold. 

Orange Pie. 
3 eggs. 

J cup of white sugar. 
2 tablespoonfuls butter. 



PIK8. 

1 orange— juice and Lalf the graced rind^ 
^ lemoD — juice and grated peel. 
Nutmeg to taste. • 

Cream the buttev and sugar, beating in the oran^ and 
iemon unti] very light; add the beaten yolks, fiirtwoyastry 
Eholls an i bake. Beat the whitiCS stiff with two tablespooufiils 
pcwdoreJ sugar, and when the pies are done, spread cvei 
tbem, returning to the oven for tliree or four midutes. 

Lemon Tart. 

1 cup sugar. 

2 lemons — all the juice, and a teaspoonful grated peei. 
|- teaspoonfu] corn-starch, dissolved in a little cold watej 
A dozen raisins stewed, cut -In two and seeded. 

Beat up well, and bake with upper and lower crust. 

Orakge Tartlets. 

2 fine Havana oranges, juice of both, and grated peel of 

one. 
J- cup of sugar — ^ cup if the oranges are very sweet. 
1 tablespoonful of butter. 
^ lemon — juice only, to wet 1 teaspoonful corn-starch. 

Beat all well together, and bake in tartlet shells witiion' 
oover. 

Chocolate Takts. 

4 eggs, whites and yolks 

I cake of Baker's chocolate, grated. 

1 tablespoonful corn-starch dissolved in water 

3 " milk. 

4 " white sugar^ 

2 t^aspoonfiils vanilla. 
1 ealtspoonful salt. 



364f COMMON SEHSB. 

it^MiOOUt'ul uinnamon. 

butter, melted. 

Eulithe clicScolate smooth in tlie milk and heat to l>(iUlng 
f|er Uie'fire, then stir in the corn-starch. Stir five ruin- 
ates pntil well thickened, remove from the fire, and pour 
into a bowl. Beat all the yolks and the whites of two 
egffl^'welllfith the sugar, and when the chocolate mixture 
is^mostt;old, put all together with the flavoring, and stir 
aitil Jight. Bake in open shells of pastry. "When done, 
SHP^^th' a meringue made of the whites of two eggs and 
Pl^llgH^poonfiils of sugar flavored with a teaspoonful of 
«iiaDn-juice. Eat cold. 
If* These are nice for tea, baked in pattypans. 

CocoA-injT Pie {I^o. 1). 

J lb. grated cocoa-nut. 
J " white sugar (powdered). 
■ 6 oz. butter. 

5 eggs — the whites only. 

1 glass white wine. 

2 tablespoonfuls rose-water. 
1 teaspoonful nutmeg. 

Cream the butter and sugar, and when well mised, beat 
rery light, with the wine and rose-water. Add the cocoa 
nut with as little and as light beating as possible ; finally, 
whip in the stiiFened whites of the eggs with a few skilfol 
strokes, and bake at once in open shells. Eat cold, wifeli 
jH)ivdered sugar sifted over them. 

These are vf ry pretty and delightfxd pies. 

CocoA-injT Pie {No. 2). 

1 lb. grated cocoarnut. «* 
\ " batter. 



PIES. 869 

) lb. powdered sugar. 

1 glans of brandy. 

2 teaispoonfuls lemon-jiiioa. 

4 eggs — white and yr>lks se^iarated. 
2 teaspoonfuls vanilla. 

Hub the butter and sugar together; beat light with Iha 
brandy and lemon-juice ; stir in the beaten yolks ; lastly tha 
Bocoa^nut and the whites, alternately. Bake in open shelll) 

Eat cold, with powdered sugar sifted oyer it. 

COCOA-ITDT CUSTAED PiK. 

1 lb. cocoa-nut, grated. 
^ " powdered sugar. 
1 quart milk, vnshimmed. 
6 eggs beaten to a froth. 

1 teaspoonful nutmeg. 

2 teaspoonfuls vanilla or rose-water. 

Boil the milk, take it from the fire, and whip in grad- 
ually the beaten eggs. When nearly cpld, season ; add the 
cocoa-nut, and pour into paste-shells. Do not boU the egg 
and milk together. Bake twenty minutes. 

Some put the ciistard quite raw into the pie-dishes, but 
the cocoa-nut is apt, in that case, to settle at the bottom. 

You may, however, poui* the raw mixture into cups, 
and bake by setting ia a pan of boiling water, stirring well 
once, as they begin to warm. This is cocoa-nut cnp-c\i» 
tar i, and is much Uked. 

OnOCOLATE CUSTAED-PIB. 

1 quarter-cake of Baker's chocolate, grated. 

1 pint boiling water. 

6 eggs. 

1 quart milk. 



866 COiSMOS SESBTL . 

■J- cup wLite sugar. 
2 teaspoonfuls vanilla. 

Dissolve the chocolate in a very little milk, stir into 
tlie boiling vrater, and boil three minutes. When nearly 
oold, beat up with this the yolks of all the eggs and tho 
whites of three. Stir this mixture into the milk, season, 
and pour into shells of good paste. When the custard is 
" set " — but not more than half done — spread over it the 
whites, whipped to a froth, with two tablespoonfuls sugar. 

You may bake these custards without paste, in a pud- 
'^g-dish or cups set in boiling water. 

Corn-starch Custard Pie. »{« 

6 eggs. 

3 pints milk. 

6 tablespoonfuls white sugar. 

2 " corn-starch. 

2 teaspoonfuls essence bitter almonds. 

Boil the milk, stir in the corn-starch wet in a little coli 
milk, and boil one minute. When nearly cold, stir in the 
sugar, tb i yolks of all the eggs, and the whites of two ; 
lavor, and pour into your paste-shells. Whip the remain- 
ing whites to a meringue, with two tablespoonfuls white 
sugar and a teaspoonful of vanilla, and when the custard 
is just " set," draw your pies to the edge of the oven to 
spread this over them. Do it quickly, lest the custard fall 
bj exposure to the air. 

You may bake this as a pudding by omitting the pastry, 
Eat cold. 

If you have not oom-starch, substitute arrow-root 31 
rice-flour 



Fixa. 867 

CUSTABD PiK. 

4 eggs. 

1 quart of milk. 

4 tablespoonfuls white sugar, 

Flavor with vaniUa or other essence. 

Beat the yolks and sugar Ught, and mix with the milk 
flavor, whip in the whites, which should be already a stiff 
froth, mix well, and pour into shells. Grate nutmeg upon 
the top. 

Bake this as cup-costard, or a custard pudding, in cupi 
OT a deep dish set in a pan of boiling water. 

Peach Pie. •}« 

Peel, stone, and slice the peaches. Line a pie-plate 
with a good crust, and lay in your fruit, sprinkling sugar 
liberally over them in proportion to their sweetness. Very 
ripe peaches require comparatively little. Allow three 
peach-kernels, chopped fine, to each pie ; pour in a very 
little water, and bake with an upper crust, or with cross- 
bars of paste across the top. 

Some simply pare the peaches and put in whole, pack- 
ing them well, and sweetening freely. In this case tliey 
should be covered entirely with crust. 

For one of the most delightful pies that can be made of 
any fruit, look for apple meringue pie, and substitute peach- 
es. I can peaches expressly to have peach m6iingues in 
winter-time. 

Chekrt Pie. 

Tine the dish with a good crust, and fill with ripe cher> 
ries, regulating the quantity of sugar you scatter over, theis 
by their sweetness. Cover and bake. 

Eat cold, with whit« sugar sifted over tho top. 



868 COMMON BHNBK. 

Blackbessy, Basfberby, Am) Fldm Pib8 
Are made in the same manner. 

CUBRANT AND KaSPBERBY TAET. »J« 

To three cups of currants allow one of raspberries. MU 
well together before you fill the crust, and sweeten abun 
(lantly. Cover with crust and bake. 

Eat cold, with white sugar sifted over it. 

CUEBANT TaBT 

Is made as above, with more sugar. The most common 
fault of currant pie is extreme sourness. Small fruits 
should be looked over carefully before they are cooked. 
Cun-ants are troublesome, but they must nevertheless be 
looked after warily on account of their extreme stem- 
miness. 

Gbeen Goosebesey Tart. »|>i 

Top and tail the gooseberries. Put into a porcelain ket 
tie with enough water to prevent burning, and stew slowlj 
until they break. Take them off, sweeten well, and set asid"* 
to cool. When cold potir into pastry shells, and bake with 
a top crust of puff-paste. Brush all over with beaten eg^ 
while hot, set back in the oven to glaze for three minutes. 

Eat cold. 

Ripe Gooseberby Pie. 

Top and tail the berries. Line your dish with crust, 
and fill with berries, strewing white sugar among them. 
Cover and bake. 

Damson Tabt. 

Pick over the frxiit, put in a dish lined with pastry, sweeten 
veiy freely, cover and bake. Brush with beaten egg when 
iouc, and return to the oven for a few minutes to glaze, 



PHES. 369 

Ceanbkrry Tart. 

Wash and pick over the berries. Put into a porcehun 
saucepan with a very little water, and simmer until they 
burst open and become soft. Run through a oiillender t«i 
remove the skins, and sweeten to taste. Bake in pastry 
ahells, witl a cross-bar of pastry over the top. 

Strawberry Pie. 

Cap and pick over the berries, arrange in layers, be- 
up rinkle with a good coating of sugar, in a shell of pastry. 
FiU it very full, as strawberries shrink verj much in cook- 
ing. Cover with crust and bake. 

Huckleberry pie is made in the same way. 

Cream Raspberry Tart. »J« 

Line a dish with paste and fill with raspberries, made 
very sweet with powdered sugar. Cover with paste, but do 
not pinch it down at the edges. When done, lift the top 
crust, which should be thicker than usual, and pour upon 
the fi-uit the following mixture : — 

1 small cup of mUk — half cream, if you can get it, heated 
to boiling. 

Whites of two eggs, beaten light and stirred into the 
boiling milk. 

1 tablespoonful white sugar. 

1 teaspoonfiil corn-starch wet in cold milk. 

Boil tbese ingredients three minutes ; let taem get per- 
fpstly cold before you put them into the tart. Replace th« 
top crust, and set the pie aside to cool. Sprinkle sugar ova 
iht) top before serving. 

You make strawberry creanj tart in the same manner 
16* 



370 COMMON BENSB. 

Ehubabb Tabt. (Opm.) 

Skin tlio stalks with care, cut into small pieces ; put into 
a saucepan with very little water, and stew slowly untL 
Boft. Sweeten while hot, but do not cook the sugar witli 
eke fruit. It injures the flavor, by making it taste like pre- 
serves. Have ready some freshly-baked shells. FiU up 
inth the fruit and they are ready to serve. 

Or— ^ 
You may, after sweetening the stewed rhubarb, stir in a 
lump of butter the size of a hickory-nut for each pie, also a 
well-beaten egg for each, and bake in pastry. Lay cross- 
bars of paste over the top. 

Rhubakb Pie. {Covered.) 

Skin the stalks, cut in lengths 6f half an inch ; strew 
wrishly with sugar, and fill the crusts with the raw fruit. 
Some scatter seedless raisins among the rhubarb. Cover, 
ftttd bake nearly three-quarters of an hour. Brush with 
egg while hot, and return to the oven to glaze. 

Ekt cold, as you do all fruit-pies. 



SERVANTS. 



Some years ago — more than I care to count o^er — I 
read a lively little book entitled, " The Greatest Plague of 
Life." I have forgotten who wrote it, if I ever knew. It 
was in the form of in autobiography ; the heroine called 
herself, with an amusing afiectation of disguise, " Mrs 
S-k-n-s-t-n," and it was illustrated by George Cruikshank. 
I read it aloud in my home-circle, and many a hearty laugh 
we had over the poor lady's perplexities and calamities. 

Regarding the history as a clever burlesque, I suffered 



SEEVAJSfTH. 371 

BO appreciable draught upon my sympathies until time and 
experience bi'ought me in contact with so many who echoed 
tier plaint, that I could not but rectir, now and then, with a 
half-Rad smile, to her siifferings under the rule of Norah, 
who chased her up-stairs with a carving-kaife ; with Mary,i 
who drank up the cherry-brandy, filled the bottle with cold 
weak tea, jmd kept her pitjdng employers up all night to 
pull her through an epileptic fit ; with John, who never an- 
swered the parlor bell " unless they persewered ; " whose 
stomach could not bear cold meat at dinner, but rallied 
bravely under a couple of pounds at supper. There was 
one nursery-maid who whipped Mrs. S-k-n-s-t-n's child, and 
unother who upset the perambulator in the park, and, too 
wauch absorbed in the suit of a whiskered Guardsman to 
taote what had happened, went on dragging the carriage 
upon its side until the taby's cheek was cruelly scarified by 
- ho gravel — besides a host of other WTiworthies set for the 
distress of Mrs. S-k-n-s-t-n's mind, body, antl estate. 

" Douglas Jerrold wrote that book," interruj)ted a friend 
itt my elbow. " And, apropos de boites, have you seen 
Vunch's recent article, ' Servautgalism ; or, What Shall 
Be Done With the Missusses ? ' " 

" The malady in America must bear another name," re- 
marks a lady, gayly. " We have no sei-vants— at least in 
this region. My cook is forty-seven years old, and my 
chambermaid a widow, who has buried two children ; yet 
they would be highly affronted were I to speak of them ex- 
cept as ' girls.' It is a generic term that belongs to the 
class ' who live out,' from sixteen up to sixty. I ha i a 
lesson on tliis head not a month since. My laimdross, 
who has lived with me six years, was thanking nie for a ser- 
tice I had done her brother. 

" ' I'll never forget you for it, mem,' she sobbed. ' I'll 
bless you for it, on nie knees, night and morning.' 



872 COMMON SENSE. 

" I ain glad I have been able to lielp yom fi-ionda, 
Katy," I said. " You have been a faithful servant to 
me " 

She cut my sentence in the middle by ■walking out of 
tho room — I s\ipposed, to conceal her emotions. I was Tm< 
deceived, five minutes later, when her angry tones reached 
me from the kitchen, the door of which she had left open. 

" I'll never beHeve a person has a good heart, or d»- 
eerves to be called a Christian, who names an honest, 
respectable girl who tries to do her duty, a servant / ' A 
faithful servant ! ' says she ; ' as if she was a queen and me- 
Bolf a beggar ! ' " 

" What did you say to the ungrateful wretch ? " asks a 
listener, indignantly. 

" Nothing. I went quietly out of hearing, reminded, 
foi ihe hundredth time, of Solomon's warning, ' Take no 
heed unto all words that are spoken, lest thou hear tjiy 
servant curse thee.' I recalled, too, the saying of a 
mightier than the Royal Preacher : ' Wliosoever will be 
greatest among yovi, let him be your servant.^ " 

" I thought you were one of the favored few who haa 
no trouble with them," says another housekeeper, sighingly. 
'' There is i-eal comfort, — excuse me, my dear Mrs. Ster- 
ling, — ^but it is refreshing to a wearied soul to know that 
you have felt some of our tribulations. It seems to me, at 
times, that there is no other affliction worthy the name 
when compared w'nAx what we endure from the ' Necessary 
Eril,' I have tried all sorts — the representatives from 
every nation under heaven, I verily believe — and they wrt 
nil alike ! They will wear me into an untimely grave yet.'' 

" I wouldn't let them, my dear Martha," replies Mrs. 
Sterling, with hei sunny smile. " If evils, they are Hurely 
minor afflictions. And, after all, I imagine 'they' are a 
good deal like the rest of roan and womankind — pretty 



SERVANTS. 878 

much as you choose to take them. The truth is, there u 
no justice in wholesale denunciation of any class. You 
recollect the Western orator's truism, ' Human natura^ 
Mr. President, nine cases out of ten, is human nature. 
When I consider the influences under which a majority of 
Jiir servants have been reared — ignorance, poverty, super 
stition, often evil example in their homes — my wonder is, 
not at the worthlessness of some, but that so many are 
>'irtuous, honest, and orderly. You will allow that, as a 
general thing, they are quite as industrious as their mis- 
tresses, and control their tempers almost as well. And we 
make so many mistakes in our dealings with them ! " 

My old fi-iend does not often lecture, but she has some- 
thing' to say now, and forgets herself in her subject. 

" We err so grievously in our management, that a sense 
of our failures should teach us charity. Do we understand, 
ourselves, what is the proper place of a hired ' help ' ia oui 
families ? If it is the disposition of Mrs. Shoddy to tram- 
ple upon them as soulless machines, Mrs. Kindly makes a 
sort of elder daughter of her maid ; indulges, consults, 
and confides in her, and wonders, by-and-by, to find herself 
under Abigail's thumb — her husband and childreu subject 
to the caprices of a pampered menial. I never hear a lady 
say of a valued domestic, ' I could not get along without 
her,' without anticipating as a certainty the hour when 
she shall annoimce, ' There is such a thing as keej)ing a 
servant too long.' The crisis comes, then, to Mrs. Kindly. 
In a moment of desperation she frees her neck from the 
yoke. Abigail packs her six trunks, having entered Mrs. 
Kindly's service, seven years before, with her worldly all 
done up in a newspaper, shakes the dust off the neat Bal- 
moral boots which have replaced her brogans, against the 
heartless tyrant who sits crying', in her own room up-slairs, 
over thoughts of how Abigail has been so clean, quick, and 



374 COMMON SENSE. 

devoted to ter interests ; Aow she has nursed her tliiougli 
a long and dangerous iUness, and had the charge of Emma 
and Bobby from their birth. She has prepared a handsome 
presont for her in memory of all this, and is hurt more 
than by anything else when she learns that the girl haa 
taken her final departure without even kissing the baby. 

" It is not strange that the deceived mistress should, from 
that day, write down Abigail a monster of ingratitude, and 
forget the faithful service of years in the smart of wounded 
feeling; when the truth is that she did the maid more 
injury by injudicious petting, than the latter coiild do hei 
mistress had she absconded with all the plate in the house. 
She has, as might have been expected, proved Abigail's un- 
d'ness to be her confidante and co-adviser; but, at the'samti 
time, she has filled her brain with notions of her superior- 
ity to her feUow-servants, her heart with burnings for the 
higher station she can never occupy. 

" I speak feelingly upon this subject," continues Mrs. 
Sterling, with a laugh ; " for I was once led into this 
very mistake myself, by the attractive qualities of a young 
woman who lived with me nine years as seamstress and 
chambermaid. She was so even-tempered, so sensible, in- 
dustrious, and respectful, that she gained upon the esteem 
of us all. One day, while we sat together at work, I told 
her of some family changes in prospect, prefacing the com- 
munication by the remark, 'I want to speak to you of 
Bometliing, Eliza, which you must not mention to any one 
else at present. The interests of an employer and a ser- 
vant should be the same.' 

" Then, very foolishly, I opened up my mind freely on 
the subject that engaged it^ She answered modestly, but 
Intelligently, entering into my plans with such cordial in- 
terest and pledges of cooperation, that I went to prepare 
for a walk, feeling really strengthened and cheered by th« 



BEBVAHTS. 375 

Jalk. A.t the front dcor I was met by a letter requiiing an 
Immediate reply. Returning to my chamber to lay off mj 
nat and shawl, I heard Eliza talking loudly and gleofully, 
in the adjoining sewing-room, with tie cook, whom she 
must have called up-staii's through the speaking-tube. You 
cannot imagine, nor I describe, my sensations at listening, 
against my will, to an exaggerated account of the inter- 
view which had just taken place. Not only my language, 
but my tones were mimicked with great gusto and much 
laughter by my late confidante — the phrase ' The interests 
of the employer and the servant should be the same ' 
occurring again and again, and forming, apparently, the 
cream of the joke. I was very angiy. But for the rule 
adopted early in my married life, never to reprove a ser- 
•rant when out of humor, I should instantly have ordered 
tlie treacheroiis creature — as I named her — from the house. 
1 sat down instead, to cool off and to think. "V7ith reflec- 
tion, common sense rallied to my aid. 

" ' The girl does well enough in her place, wliich is that 
of a hired chambermaid and seamstress,' said this monitor. 
' She knew her position, and would have kept it, but for 
your folly in dragging her up to temporary equality with 
yourself. You made yourself ridiculous, and she was 
shrewd enough to see it. Take the lesson to heart ; write 
it out in full for future guidance, and keep your own 
ccivtnsel.' 

" Eliza never suspected my discovery. She remained 
with me until her maniage a year afterward, and we parted 
upon good terms." 

I have quoted from my fi-iend at length, because I honor 
her excellent judgment and mature experience, and becaiise 
I agree so fully with her touching the evil of so-called con- 
fidential servants. TKe principle of acknowledged favorit- 
ism is ruinous to domestic comfort, let who may bo thf 



876 COMMON SENSE. 

object thus distinguished. Rely upon it, My dear lady, ai 
least one-third of home-wrangles and social scandal ari&ei 
from this cause. Be assured, also, that if you do not pei> 
ceive the impropriety of lowering yourself to tPie level ol 
your subordinates, i/jey will, and gauge their behavior ac- 
cordingly. The connection is an umiatural one, and, like 
all others of the kind, must terminate disastrously in time. 
Then the discarded favorite, aggrieved and exasperated, 
leaves your house to tattle in the ears of some other indis- 
creet mistress, of your sayings and doings. Show your 
servant that you resjject yourself and her too truly to for- 
get what is due to both. Be kind, pleasant, always reason- 
able and attentive to her needs, willing to hearken to and 
meet an}' lawful request. Make her comfortable, and, so 
far as you can, happy. 

Excuse one more quotation from Mrs. Sterling, whom, 
when I was much younger than I am now, I considted 
with regard to the just medium between familiarity and 
austerity. 

" Remember they are human beings, and treat them aa 
Buch," she said. " Not that you are likely to reap a large 
reward in their gratitude, but because it is right, and be- 
cause you find no exceptions to the practice of the Golden 
Rule laid down in the Bible. Be faithfuj in your obedience 
*» the law of kindness. With the return tide you have 
nothing to do. This is a safe and straight pith. I believe 
it to be also the smoothest. You vsdll be better and more 
cheerfully served than your neighbor, who, recognizing in 
every hireling a natural enemy, is always on the defensive." 

I have found the most seiious obstacle to a comfortable 
pursuance of her safe path, to lie in this same prejudice — 
rooted by" centuries of misunderstandings and caste-wars — 
the belief of necessary antagonism between employers and 
employed. Mrs. Sterling's Eliza only expressed the pre 



BEBVAIO'S. 371 

Tailing sentiment of her class, when she ridiouled her 
mistress' proposition that their interests ought to be identi- 
cal. I have failed so often and so signally in the endeavoi 
to impress the merits of this policy upon domestics, that I 
rarely attempt it now There is always a suspicion- -more 
or less apparent — that you have a single eye to self-interest 
in all your regulations and counsels. " What does she 
hope to gain ? What am I in danger of losing ? " are the 
queries that invariably preient themselves to the subordi- 
nate's mind. The arguments by which your plans are sup- 
ported are thrown away upon ignorant and illogical listen- 
ers — your array of facts totally disbelieved. Your auditor 
does not say this, but in divers and ingenious ways she 
contrives to let you know that she is not so silly as to Iw 
imposed upon by the specious array of evidence. 

For hot ^uch of this are mistresses responsible ? Has 
this creed of distrust been learned by experience of injustice 
or exaction, or is it one of the popular prejudices, which 
are harder to overthrow than sound and well-established 
principle ? Of one thing I am certain : Mistresses and 
maids would more speedily come to a right understanding 
of oneness of interest but for the influence exerted over the 
former by Mrs. Jones, Mrs. Robinson, and Mrs. Brown, 
who don't allc.w this, and cotildn't think of that, and never 
heard of the cither privilege or immunity being granted to 
servants. Before they would yield such a point, or submit 
to one syllable of dictation, they would do all their own 
work, etc., etc. Poor Mrs. Pliable, listening dumbly and 
meekly, goes home with a low-spirited sense of her own 
pusillanimity upon her, and tries to assert her authority 
and redeem past faults by a sudden tightening of the reina 
thai results in a runaway and general smash-up. 

Cannot we remember — ^you and I — my dear reader, that 
we may sometimes be as nearly right as those who talk mora 



378 COMMON BEN8E. 

loudly and strongly than we upon domestic economy, laying 
doim rules we never thought of suggesting; splitting into 
ninths a hair our short-siglited eyes cannot make out when 
whole, and annihilating our timid objections with a loi'dly 
".r always do so," which is equal to a decree of infallibility ? 
Cannot we make up our minds, once and for all, to be a law 
unto ourselves in all matters pertaining to our householdr. ? 
Mrs. Jones' lode may be good for her ; Mrs. Robinson's 
better than any other in her particular case, and Mrs. 
Brown's best of all for one in her peculiar circumstances ; 
yet any one or all of them be unsuitable for our use. 

Avoid talking about your domestic affairs with people 
whose gossip on these topics is incessant. You are angry 
»vhen a whiff of some such discussion as enlightened Mi's. 
Sterling, with regard to our mistake, is wafted to you 
through the dumb-waiter or register, an accident that will 
oociir while the tones of the plaintiffs are Ipud and ur train- 
fid by education or policy. It is mean and unkind — traitor- 
ous, in fact, you say, for them so to misrepresent and revile 
you — after all the kindness you have showed to them, too ! 
Bridget, Chloe, or Gretclien, passing the parlor-door and 
catching the sound of her name as roughly handled, may 
have her own sensations, and draw her own inferences — 
heinf/ hiiman like yowrself. It is tiresome and vulgar, this 
everlasting exchange of experiences about " my girl," and 
" your gill," and everybody else's " girl." It is time sensi- 
ble women ceased, in this resjiect, to imitate the fashion of 
the class they censure, and put down the bootless tattla 
with a strong will. Order your household, then, so far 
aright as you can by the help of common sense and grace 
from on high, and let Mesdames Jones, Robinson, and 
Brown look to the ways of their own, and expend theii 
turplus energies upon their neighbors' concerns — cciintiii| 
fou out. 



BEBYANTS. 378 

(I believe that is slang, but let it stand !) 

These worthy and fussy housewives act upon the sup 
position that all " girls " are cast in the same mould. Being 
human (do not let us forget that !), the probability is, that 
there are varieties of the species. 

But, if the mistresses are led by their associates, th« 
"girl's" "acqtiaintances" sway her yet more powerfully. 
Every conscientious, well-meaning housewife knows what a 
brake is this informal, but terrible " Union " upon her en- 
deavors to improve and really benefit those under her di- 
rection. I have been amazed and disgusted at the tyranny 
exercised by this irresponsible body over the best servants 
l£ have ever seen. 

" We would be hooted at, ma'am, if we didn't give in 
»( them," said one, when I represented how senseless and 
Jmost suicidal was the course recommended by these evil 
.«<ivLsers. " There's not a girl in town would speak to ua 
»f we didn't join in with the rest. It's like a stiike, you 
tife — awful upon them as holds back." 

Do not, then, my discouraged fellow-laborer, imagine 
iJiat I am ignorant of your trials, your doubts, your dis- 
heartening experiences. If I disagree with Mrs. S-k-n-s-t-n 
and do not pronounce our servants to be the greatest plague 
of life, inclining rather to the belief that — always allow- 
ing for human nature and the drawbacks I have enumer- 
ated — good mistresses are apt to make good servants, it 
is in consequence of long and careful study and observa- 
tion of the practical working of Mrs. Sterling's rule. Like 
begets like. Pleasant words are more likely to be an- 
swered by pleasant than are tart or hasty ones. If yoTi 
would have your servants respectful to you, be respectful 
to them. The best way to teach them politeness is by 
example. It should not cost you 'an effort to say, " Thank 
you," or " If you please." The habit exerts an unconsciou* 



380 OOMMOK SISNSK. 

refining influence upon them, and you dignify instead of 
degrading your ladyhoo4 by being pitiful and courteoui 
to all. If you can only maintain your position by haugh- 
tiness and chUling disregard of the feelings of inferior% 
your rank is false, or you unfit to hold it. 

To begin, then : Be mistress of yourself. Amid all 
your temptations to angry or sarcastic speech (and how 
many and how strong these are, you and I know), curb 
yourself with the recollection that it is despicable, no lesa 
than useless, to say cutting things to one who has no right 
to retort upon you in kind. 

" Ma'," says Miss Aurelia in Miss Sedgwick's admirable 
Btory, "Live and let Live" — "how can you let your help be 
BO saucy to you ? " 

Master Julius, who was standing by, took a different 
view of the matter. 

"If Ma' doesn't want her help to be Bwrcy to her," he 
said, " she hadn't ought to be sa/rcy to them." 

Teach your children the like forms of kindly speech 
and habits of consideration for the comfort and happiness 
of your domestics, chocking with equal promptness undue 
freedom and the arrogance of station. It is as graceful to 
bend as it is mean to grovel. 

Learn not to see everything, and, so soon as you can, 
put far from you the delusive hope that anybody else — 
unless it be dear old John — will ever serve you as well 
as you would serve yourself. This failure is attributable 
to some one of the nine-tenths we spoke of just now. She 
is a prudent housekeeper who can wink at trifling blemishes 
without effort or parade. There is one text which haa 
come into my troubled mind hundreds of times on such 
occasions, calming pertiu-bation into solemnity, and bring 
ing, I hope, charity with humility — 



BEBVAHT8. 381 

"If l^hou, Lord, Bhouldst mark iniquities, O Lcrd, 
who shaSl stand ? " 

Bi,t if your hold of the reiu be gentle, let it also b« 
lirm. Never forget that the house is yours, and that yo* 
—not hirelings — are responsible for the disposition of the 
(tores purchased ■with John's money. 

" I was much amused the other day," said an easy- 
tempered lady to me, " at a talk that passed under my win- 
dow between my new cook and one of her visitors. 

" ' And how are ye gitting along ? ' asked the guest. 

" ' Oh ! pretty well-ish, now,' was the reply. ' I was 
a-feard, when I first come, that she would bother me a-trot- 
ting down into the kitchen so constant. But I give her a 
iiint as how that wasn't the trick of a raal lady, and she's 
kep' out nicely sence then. You've got to stand up for 
your own rights in this wurrld, or you'll be trod upon.' " 

Now, it woiild be throwing away words to reason with 
B woman like that cook, or a mistress might show that in 
no other department of labor would such a priuciple be 
tolerated — that from the Secretary of State down to the 
scavenger who empties your ash-pan, every employe who 
draws wages has an overlooker, to whom he is accountable 
for the manner in which his work is done and his money 
earned ; and that the fact that she is an ignorant, high- 
tempered woman is no just cause of exerajjtion. Yet in 
how many families is this point tacitly yielded, and the 
mistress admitted upon suifei'ance to her own kitchen — the 
room furnished with her money, and in which she hardly 
dare touch or look at the articles intended for the consump- 
tion of her own family ? 

One often hears such remarks as, " It isn't every girl 
who will stand having the mistress popping in and out 
while she is at work." When, in any other situation, the 
very fact of this unwillingness to have the owner of the 



382 COMMON SENSE. 

materials used in that work present, would be sticng pre 
sumptive proof of negligence or dishonesty. The princi- 
ple is pernicious from beginning to end, and should not b« 
tolerated for an instant. 

It gives me pleasure to state here, that I know nothing 
personally of this curious reversal of the rights of employer 
and domestic. I am inclined to believe, if one-half I hear 
of other housewives' trials be true, that I have been highly 
favored among American women. My authority in the 
kitchen, as in other parts of the household, has never been 
disputed — ^in my hearing or presence, that is. I have 
always met with a cheerful reception below-stairs when I 
appeared there to direct or share the labors of my cooks ; 
have found them willing to undertake new dishes, and 
ready to learn my " way," however unlike it might be to 
their own. As a rule, also, — to which the exceptions have 
been few and very far between, — those employed by me 
have been cleanly, industrious, kind-hearted, and respect- 
ful; patient under inconveniences, and attentive in sick 
ness. I should not, therefore, do my duty, did I not lifl^ 
my voice in a plea for charitable judgment, just and gen. 
erous treatment of a class which, however faulty, hav- 
much to do and to endure. Mrs. Skinflint's grocer's ac- 
count may be less than yours, if you adopt this policy — 
Mrs. Sharp's coal-cellar be better dusted, and the paint iu 
her attic scrubbed oftener ; but I believe, ia the long run, 
you will be the most comfortable in body as in conscience. 
Yoiu- machinery will move with fewer jerks and less fric- 
tion. Your servants will remain with you longer, and '>a 
better-tempered while they stay, if you show that you tip 
predate the fact of a common humanity ; that 3'ou owe 
them duties you are resolved to fulfil during their sojouru 
under your roof, however mercenary may be theii' j'erfontt 
ance of those devolving upon t\em. 



F0DDINGS. 38S 

Finally, dear sister, do not add tc the real miseries of 
life by regarding tlie annoyance of a careless, slothful, oi 
impertinent domestic as a real trouble. Class it with petty 
\exations which are yet curable as well as endurable, and 
live above it — a noble, beneficent existence in the love of 
^Gur fellow-creatures and the fear of God — a life that can 
not suffer jieroeptiblo disturbance from such a contemptible 
rootlet of bitterness as tliis. It is only the feeble, the 
inefficient, or the indolent mistress whose peace of mind is 
dependent upon such casualties as a breeze, a hurricane, or 
& sudden vacancy in the department of the interior. 

Recollect, when the infliction is sharpest, that brier- 
pricks are disagi-eeable, but never serious, unless the blood 
be vei-y impure. 

♦ 

PUDDINGS. 

I have, for convenience sake, classed among pies all 
preparations baked in crust in a pie-dish. Many of these, 
however, are called puddings, such as custards of varioui 
kinds, lemon, cocoa-nut, and orange puddings. The readei 
will have no trouble in finding the receipts for these, if sh( 
will bear the above remark in mind. 

Baked Puddings. 

Beat your eggs very light — and, if you put in only one i 
or two, whip white and yolk separately, beating the lattei 
Inio the sugar before adding the whites. 

Fniit, rice, corn-starch, and bread puddings require a 
steady, moderate oven in baking. Custard and batter pud- 
liugs should be put into the dish, and this into the oven, 
st-s ixistant they are mixed, and baked quickly. Ifo pud- 
Jiag, unless it be raised with yeast, should be allowed to 



584 COMMON SENSE. 

Stand out. of the oven after the ingredients are put together 
Give one final hard stir just before it goes in, and be msrt 
iLe mould is well greased 

Apple M^kingue Pudding. 

1 pint stewed apples. 

3 eggs — ^white and yolk separate. 

J c|ip white sugar, and one teasjioonful butter,- 

1 %easpoonf ul nutmeg and cinnamon mixed. 

1 " essence bitter ahnond (for the meringue). 

Sweeten and spice, and, while the apple is still very 
hot, stir in the butter, and, a little at a time, the yolks. 
JBeat all light, pour into a buttered dish, and bake ten min- 
utes. Cover, without drawing from the ovenj with a me- 
ringue made of the beaten whites, two tablespoonfuls whits 
nugar, and the bitter almond seasoning. Spread smoothly 
»nd quickly, close the oven again, and brown very slightly. 

Eat cold, with white sugar sifted over the top, and send 
Around cream to pour over it instead of sauce. 

Baked Apple Pudding. 

6 large firm pippins (grated). 

3 tablespoonfuls butter. 
■§■ cup sugar. 

4 eggs — whites and yolks separate. 
Juice of one lemon, and half the peel. 

Beat butter and sugar to a cream, stir in the yolka, th« 
leeoon, the grated apple, lastly the whites. _ Grate nutmeg 
»var the top, and bake until nicely browned. 

Eat (yid with cream. i 



baked pttddinijb. s8s 

Sweet Apple Pudding. •}• 

1 quart milk. 

4 eggs. 

3 cups chopped apple. 

1 lemon — aU the juice and half the rind. 
Nutmeg and cinnamon. 

J teaspoonful of soda dissolved in a little vinc'gar. 
Flour for a stiff hatter. 

Beat the yolks very light, add the milk, seasoning, and 
flour. Stir hard five minutes, and beat in the apple, then 
the whites, lastly the soda, well mixed in. 

Bake in two square shallow pans one hour, and eat 
hot, with sweet sauce. Much of the success of tliis pudding 
depends upon the mixing — almost as much upon the baking. 
Cover with paper when half done, to prevent hardening. 

Pippin Pudding. "J* 

8 fine pippins, pared, cored, and sliced, breaking them 

as little as possible. 
^ cup very fine bread-crumbs. 

2 teasj)oonful8 butter — melted. 

6 eggs — whites and yolks separate. 

f cup sugar. 

1 oz. citron, shred finely. 

1 teasj)oonful nutmeg, and a dozen wLcle cloves. 

1 cup milk or cream. 

Soak the bread-crumbs in the mUk, cream the butter 
jir.d sugar, and beat into this the yolks. Next, adding the 
milk and soaked bread, stir until very smooth and light. 
Put in the nutmeg and citron, and whip , in the whites 
lightly. Butter a deep dish, and put in your sliced apple, 
gprinkUng each piece well with sugar, and scattering th« 



886 COMMON SE]5rSE. 

cloves among tliem. Pour the custard you have prepared 
OTor them, and bake three-quarters of an hour. 
Sift powdered sugar over the top, and eat cold 

Brown Betty. »J» 

1 cup bread-crumbs. 

2 cups cliopped apples — ^tart. 
^ cup sugar. 

1 teaspoonful cinnamon. 

2 tablespoohfuls butter cut into small bits. 

Butter a deep dish, and put a layer of the chopped 
apple at the bottom; sprinkle with sugar, a few bits of 
bvitter, and cinnamon ; cover with bread-crumbs ; then more 
apple. Proceed in this order until the dish is full, having 
a layer of crumbs at top. Cover clo-sely, and steam threes 
quarters of an hour in a moderate oven ; then ixncover and 
brown quickly. 

Eat warm with sugar and cream, or sweet sauce. 

This is a homely but very good pudding, especially ior 
the children's table. Serve in the dish in which il ia 
baked. 

Apple Battek Pudding. 

1 pint rich milk. 

2 cups flour. 
4 eggs. 

1 teaspoonful salt. 

J " soda, dissolved, in hot water. 

Peel and core eight apples carefully, and range them eloso- 
ly together in a d^ep dish. Beat the batter very HgLf. and 
pour over them. Unless the apples are very ripe and sweet 
(for tart apples), fill the centre of each with white ougai 
Bake an hour, and eat hot with sweet sauce. 



baked ptjddingb. 387 

Apple and Plum Pcddino. 

] lb fine tart apples, pared and chopped. 

I " sugar. 

I " flour. 

^ " beef suet, rubbed fine, 

I '■ raisins, seeded and chopped. 

e eggs. 

1 teuspoonful nutmeg and the same powdered cloves. 

1 « salt. 

^ glass brown sherry and the same of brandy. 

Stir the beaten yolks and sugar very light, add the suet 
End apples with the spice; then the raisins, well dredged 
•idth flour ; next the flour, and, when this is all in, the 
dquor; lastly, the whites beaten veri/ stiff. Bake in two 
buttered moulds, in a moderate oven, an hour and a half a< 
least. Eat hot, with sauce. 

You may boil this j)udding if you like. 

Apple and Tapioca Pudding. 4« 

1 teacupful tapioca. 

6 apples — juicy and well-flavored pippins — pared BnA 

cored. 
1 quart water. 
1 teaspoonful salt. 

Cover the tapioca with three cups of lukewarm water, 
and fcet it in a tolerably warm place to soak five or six 
hours, stirring now and then. Pack your ajDples in a deep 
dish, adding a cup of lukewarm water ; cover closely and 
stean. in a moderate oven until soft all tlu'ough, turning 
them as they cook at bottom. If the dish is more than a 
third full of liqviid, turn some of it out before you pour the 
soaked tapioca over all. Unless your apples are very sweety 



888 COMMON SENSE. 

fill the centre with sugar and stick a clove in each, just \» 
fore you cover with the tapioca. Indeed, I always do thif<. 
It softens the hard acid of the fruit. Bake, after the iapic 
<vi goes in, one hour. 

Eat wwm, with sweet hard sauce. 

Baked Apple Dcmplinqs. »J« 

1 quart flour. 

2 tablespoonfuls lard — or half butter is better. 
2 cups of milk, 

1 teaspoonful soda, dissolved in hot water. 

2 " cream-tartar sifted into the dry flour. 
1 saltspoonful salt. 

Chop the shortening into the flour after you have sifted 
this and the cream-tartar together ; put in the soda and wet 
.^p quickly — just stiff enough to roU into a paste less than 
naif an inch thick. Cut into squares, and lay in the centre 
of each a juicy, tarr; apple, pared and cored; bring the cor- 
ners of the square neatly together ami ])inch them slightly. 
Lay in a buttered baldng-pan, the joined edges downward, 
and bak(j to a fine brown. When done, brush over with 
beaten egg, and set back in the oven to glaze for two or 
three minutes. Sift powdei'ed sugar over them, and eat hot 
with rich sweet sauce. 

I greatly prefer the above simple crust for all kinds of 
dumplings, to the rich paste wliich becomes heavy so soon 
ta it begins to cool. It is also more quickly and easily made, 
uid far mora wholesome than pastry. 

Tapioca Pudding. »J« 

1 cup tapioca. 
1 quart milk. 
5 pggr, — whites and yolks beaten separately. 



BAKED PUDDINGS. 889 

2 taljlespoonfuls butter, molted. 
2 " sugar. 

Soak the tapioca, in enough cold water to cover ilj two 
hovii's; drain off the water, if it be not all absorbed; soak 
two hours longer in the milk, which should be slightlj' 
warmed. When the tapioca is qiute soft, beat the sugai 
find butter together; add the yolks, the milk and tapioca, 
lastly tlie whites. Stir very well, and bake in a buttered 
dish. Eat warm with sweet sauce. 

You may make a sago pudding in the same way. 

Corn-Starch Pudding. »J« 

4 tablespoonfuls com-starch. 

1 quart milk. 

4 eggs — whites and yolks separate. 

f cup sugar. 

Nutmeg and cinnamon. 

1 tablespoonful butter. 

Dissolve the com-starch in a little cold millc, and having 
heated the rest of the milk to boiling, stir this in ant' boi' 
three minutes, stirring all the time. Remove from the fin >,, 
and while still very hot, put in the butter. Set away untJ 
cold; beat the eggs veiy Light — the sugar and seasoning with 
them, and stir into the corn-starch, beating thoroughly to & 
Bmooth custard. Turn into a buttered dish, and bake half 
an boui. Eat cold, with powdered sugar sifted over it» 

Corn-Staech Meringue. •!« 

4 eggs. 

1 quart of milk,„^-^ 

} cup sugar. 

4 teaspoonfuls com-starch. 

J cup fruit-jelly or jam. 



390 COMMON SENSE 

Heat the milk to boiling, and stir in the com-staich, 
which has previously been dissolved in a little cold niUk, 
Boil fifteen minutes, stirring all the while. Remove from 
the fire, and while still hot, add gradually the yolks of the 
eggs beaten up with, the sugar and seasoned with vanilla, 
lomon, or bitter almond. Pour this into a buttered pud- 
ding dish and bake fifteen minutes, or until the custard 
begins to " set." Without withdrawing it further than 
the door of the oven, spread lightly and quioMy upon this 
B mdringue of the whites whipped up stiff with a half-cup 
jelly — add gradually. Use crab-apple j elly, if bitter almond 
has been put into the custard ; currant, for vanilla ; straw- 
berry or other sweet conserve, if you season the custard 
ffith lemon. Bake, covered, for five minutes. Then re- 
move the lid, and brown the meringue very slightly. 

Eat cold, with powdered sugar sifted thickly over the 

top. 

Akrow-koot Pudding 

Is made according to either of the foregoing receipts, 

substituting arrow-root for corn-starch. Farina puddings 

also. 

Bread Pudding. *^ 

1 quart of milk. 

2 cups of fiine bread-crumbs — always stale and dry. 
4 eggs. 

2 tablespoonfuls melted butter. 

Nutmeg to taste. 

\ teaspoonful soda dissolved in hot water. 

Beat the yolks very light, and having soaked the4>re&d' 
crumbs well in the milk, gtir these together ; then the butter 
Knd seasoning, with the soda ; lastly the whites. Bake to a 
fine brown, and eat hot with pudding-sauce. 

This, if well mixed and baked, is quite a different dial 



BAKED PUDDINGS. 391 

froio the traditional and much-despised bread-pudding 
of siingy housekeepers and boarding-house landladies. 
" Which," says an English Josh. Billings, " nothing can 
be more promiskus than a boarding-house bread-pudding." 
Try mine instead, putting all the sugar into the sauce, and 
enough there, and you wiU cease to sneer. 

You may boil this pudding, if you like, in a floured 
cloth or buttered mould. 

Fruit Bread Pudding. »J« 

1 quart mUk. 
5 eggs. 

DO 

2 tablespoonfuls melted butter. 

2 " (heaping) sugar. 

J lb. raisins, seeded and chopped. 

J " currants, well washed and picked over. 

Handful of shred citron, and 1 teaspoonful soda di». 

solved in hot water. 
2 acamt cups fine bread-crumbs, from a stale loaf. 

Seat the yolks light with the sugar, add the bread- 
cnmibs when they have been well soaked in the milk, and 
stir until smooth. Next put in the fruit well dredged with 
tlour, the soda, axd finally the whites whipped to a stiff 
froth. 

This wUl require longer and steadier baking than if the 
fruit were not in. Cover it if it threatens to harden too 
soon on top. Send to table hot in the dish in which it wai 
baked, or turn out very carefully upon a hot plate. Eat 
w«nn, with pudding-sauce. 

BBEAD-Ain)-£CTTER FuDDINQ. 

4 eggs. 

3 cups milk. * 



892 COMMON SENSB. 

J cup sugar. 

Vanilla or other extract. 
Nutmeg to taste. 
Bread and butter. 

Cut tliin slices of bread (stale), spread thickly witb 
butter, and sprinkle with sugar. Fit them neatly and 
closely into a buttered pudding-dish until it is half fuU 
Lay a small, heavy plate upon them to prevent them from 
floating, and satiu-ate them gi-adually with a hot custard 
made of the milk heated almost to boiling, then taken from 
the fire, and the beaten eggs and sugar stirred in -with, the 
seasoning. Let the bread soak in this fifteen minutes or 
so, adding by degrees all the custard. Just before you put 
the jiudding in the oven, take uji the plate gently. If the 
bread still rise to the top, keep down with a silver fork or 
spoon, laid ujiou it from the side of the dish, until the cus- 
tard thickens, when slip it out. Eat cold. 

Bkead-and-makmalade ruDDiKO »J« 

Is made precisely as above, except that each slice is spread 
with marmalade or jam besides the butter. 
Either of these puddings is good boiled. 

r Alice's Pudmng.j^ 

1 quart of mUk. 

4 eggs. 

1 cup very fine dry bread-crumbs. 

^ " strawberry or other sweet jam. 

^ " sugar. 

Butter a pTidding-dish ; sprinkle the bottom with Iread- 
crumbs; pour over these half a cup jam, and cover this 
well with the rest of the crumbs, wet with a very litt]« 
milk. Hesft the quart of milk luitil near boiling, take 11 



BAKED PITODINGB. 3'>3 

from the fire and add, gradually, the beaten yolks and 
swgar, stirring in the beaten whites Hghtly at the last. 
Htat tliis by degrees, stu-riug constantlj' imtil it begins to 
thicken; put it, spoonful by spoonful, upon the layer of 
bread crumbs, taking care not to disturb these, and wheT 
all is in, bake until well " set " and very slightly browned 
Eat cold. Cream is a delicious accompaniment to it. 

The Queen of Pitddings. »J< 

IJ cup ■white sugar. 

2 cups fine dry bread-crumbs, 

5 eggs. 

1 tablespoonful of butter. 

Vanilla, rose-water, or lemon seasoning. 

1 quart fresh rich milk, and one half cup jelly or jam. 

Rub the butter into a cup of sugar ; beat the yolks veiy 
light, and stir these together to a cream. The bread-ciumbs, 
soaked in milk, come next, then the seasoning. Bake this 
in a buttered pudding-dish — a large one and but two-thiida 
full — until the custard is " set." Draw to the mouth of 
the oven, spread over with jam or other nice fruit-conserve. 
Cover this ^vith a meringue made of the whipped white* 
and half a cup of sugar. Shut the oven and bake until th»« 
meringue begins to color. 

Eat cold, with cream. 

You may, in strawberry season, substitute the freak 
fruit for preserves. It is then truly delightfid. 

(Cracker PuddinoJ »J" 
1 quart milk. 

1 cup powdered cracker 
5 eggs. 

2 tablespoonfuls melted butter. 

^ teaspoonful soda — dissolved in boiling water. 
17* 



394 COMMON SENSE. 

Heat the milk slightly, and ijoiiring it over :Le cracker 
let tliem stand together fifteen minutes. Stir into this first 
the beaten yolks, then the butter and soda ; beat all smooth 
and add the whipped whites. 

Eat hot, with pudding-sauce. 

DoBCHESTEH Cracker Plum PuDDisa. 

2 quarts milk. 

6 Boston crackers — spUt and buttered. 

8 eggs — beaten very light. 

2 cups sugar. Nutmeg, cloves, and cinnamon to taste. 

1 teaspoonful of salt. 

1 lb. raisins, seeded and cut in two. 

Make a custard of the milk, eggs, and sugar, seasoned 
with tlie spices, by heating the milk almost to boiling, then 
taking it from the fire and adding gradually the yolks, 
jugar, seasoning, and whites. Do not boil it again. Butter 
a. pudding-dish ; put a layer of crackers in the bottom, 
moistening with a few spoonfuls of the hot custard. On 
this lay some of the raisins — a thick stratum ; cover with 
crackers — the buttered side downward ; moisten with the 
custard, and proceed in this order until your crackers and 
fniit are used up. Pour in custard until only the top of 
the upper layer is -iisiblo, but not enough to float them ; 
cover closely and set in the cellar over night. In the morn- 
ing add the rest of the custard, at ini«rvals of five or six 
minutes between the oupfuls. 

Bake two hours in a moderate oven. Cover with pipoi 
if it should seem likely to harden too fast. 

Eat hot, with sauce. 

Cracker Suet Pudding. »J« 

J lb. beef siiet, freed from strings, and powdered. 
1 cup fine cracker-crumbs. 



BAKED PUDDINGS. 



396 



2 tablespoonfula sugar. 
4 eggs. 

3 cups milk. 
I'mch of soda. 

1 teaspoonfiil salt. 

Beat the yolks with the sugar ; add to these the milli 
in which the cracker has been soaked for half an hrar; 
work into a smooth paste before putting in the suet and 
soda. Whip the whites in last, and bake nearly, if not 
quite an hour. Cover, should the crust form too rapidly. 
Eat hot, with wine sauce. 

You may also steam or boil this pudding. 

Fruit Crackek Puddino. 

1 cup powdered cracker soaked in one pint of milk. 
J lb. beef suet, cleared from strings and powdered. 
■^ " raisins, seeded and cut in two. 
J " currants, washed and dried. 
3 oz. almonds. 
6 eggs. 
■J- cup sugar. 

1 teaspoonful nutmeg, and same of cinnamon. Hose- 
water to taste, 

Blanch the almonds and cut with a sharp knife into thin 
shavings. Beat the yolks with the sugar until light and 
thick; miv in the cracker and milk ; the suet and the fruit, 
well dredged ; the spice and rose-water ; then the whipped 
whites, finally the almonds. 

Bake in a buttered mould one hour and a half. Turn 
out and eat with wine sauce. 

Or, 
Bcil in a well -buttered mould. In this case, blanch, but d> 



S96 COMMON SENSE. 

not cot the almonds, and do not stone the raisins. Buttei 
the mould so thickly that you can stick the almonds to the 
sides in regular rows, alternately with rows of whole raisina. 
Put in the mixture gently, not to disturb these ; cover :he 
mould and boil or steam three hours. Treated in tliig \ay, 
it makes a pretty-looking pudding. It is palatable ib any 
shape. 

Cracker and Jam Pudding. 

3 eggs. 

^ cup cracker-crumba. 

•J cup sugar. 

1 tablespoonful butter. 

1 teacup milk. 

^ lemon — juice and grated rind. 

3 tablespoonfuls jam. 

Soak the cracker in the milk ; rub the butter and nugai 
together, adding the lemon, and beating to a cream ; then 
Ktir in the beaten yolks ; next the cracker and milk ; lastly, 
the whites. Butter a deep dish, and put the jam, which 
should be pretty stiff, at the bottom. Fill up with the mix- 
ture, and bake about half an hour. 

Eat cold, with sugar sifted over the top. 

Rice Pudding {I'lain). ^J* 

1 coffee-cup rice. 

2 quai'ts milk. 

8 tablespoonfuls sugar. 

1 teaspoonful salt. 

Butter the size of an egg — melted. 

Nutmeg and cinnamon to taste. 

Wash and pick over the rice, and soak in one pint of 
the milk two hours. Then add the rest of th« milk, th* 



BAKED PUDDINGS. 39? 

ingar, salt, butter, and spice. Bake t'wo hours, and eai 
cold. 

KicE AND Tapioca Pudding. 

■J cup rice. 
i " tapioca. 
|- " sugar. 
3 pints milk. 
Cinnamon to taste. 

Soak the tapioca in a cup of the milk three hours ; -wasl! 
the rice ir several waters, and soak in another cup of milk 
as long as you do the tapioca. Sweeten the remaining 
quai-t of milk ; put all the ingredients together, and bake 
two hours in a slow oven. Eat cold. 

Rice Pudding with Eqgs. »J« 

i quart milk. 

4 eggs. 

J cup rice. 

f " sugar. 

] tablespoonful butter. 

Handful of raisins, seeded and cut in two. 

Soak the lice in a pint of the milk an hour, then set the 
saucepan containing it where it wiU slowly heat to a boil. 
Boil five minutes ; remove and let it cool. Beat the yolks, 
add the sugar and butter, the rice and the milk in ■p/hich it 
was cooked, wiih the pint of unboiled ; the be i*en whites, 
and finally the raisins. Grate nutmeg on the iop, and bake 
three-qnarterp of an hour, or until the custard i/j \*cU set 
»nd of a light brown. Eat cold. 

Rice-Flour Pudding 
2 qnarts of milk. 
f lb. t ice -flour. 



398 coMMon SEirsE. 

] cup sugar. 

6 eggs. 

1 tablesjioonful butter. 

1 small teaspoonful nutmeg. 

2 teaspoonfuls vanilla or rose-water. 

1 lemon — juice of the whole, and half the grated rind. 

Heat the milk to a boil, and stir in the rice-flour wet 
to a smooth paste with a Httle cold milk ; boil until well 
thickened, stirring all the time. Take from the fire, and 
wliile still hot stir in the butter, the yolks beaten light with 
the sugar, the lemon, nutmeg, and the whites of three eggs. 
Mix well, and bake in a buttered dish three-quarters of an 
hour. Just before you take it up, draw to the mouth of 
iLe oven and cover with a m6ringue of the remaining wliites, 
weaten stiff with two tablespoonfuls powdered sugar, and 
riavored with vanilla or rose-water. Bake until the m^rin- 
gne begins to brown. Sift sugar on the top and eat cold. 

Batter Pudding. »J« 

1 pint of mUk. 

4 eggs — whites and yolks beaten separately 

2 even cups flour. 
1 teaspoonful salt. 
1 pinch of soda. 

Bake in a buttered dish three-quarters of an hour. 
Serve in the pudding-dish as soon as it is drawn from the 
oven, and eat with rich sauce. 

Or 

You may boil it in a buttered mould or floured bag, flour- 
ing it very thickly. BoU two hours, taking care the boiUng 
does not cease for a moment until the pudding is done. 



BASiCD PUDDmOB. 399 

Batter Pudding (JVb. 2). 

I quart milk. 

10 tablespoonfuls flour. 

7 eggs. 

1 teaspoonful salt. 

^ " soda, dissolved in hot water. 

1 " cream-tartar, sifted iato the flour. 

Wet the flour gradually with the milk to a very smootb 
jwste ; next add the beaten yolks, then the salt and soda 
lastly the whites, whipped to a stiff froth. Bake in a but- 
• tered dish for an hour, and serve at once. Eat hot, with 
vauce. 

If you boil it, leave plenty of room to swell in the bag, 
Mod boil two hours. 

Cottage Pudding. >J« 

1 cup of sugar. 

1 tablespoonful of butter. 

2 eggs. 

1 cup sweet milk. 

3 cups flour, or enough to make a tolerably stiff battor, 
^ teaapoonful of soda. 

1 " cream-tartar, sifted with the flour. 

1 « salt. 

Rub the butter and sugar together, beat in the yolks, 
then thd milk and soda, the salt, and the beaten whites, al- 
ternately with the flour. Bake in a buttered mould ; tun> 
out upon a dish ; cut in slices, and eat with liquid sauce, 

Tbi<i is a simple but veiy nice pudding. 



too COMMON 8EN8B. 

Gersias Puffs. ►{• 
3 cups flonr. 
3 " niilk. 
3 eggs — whites and yolks beaten separately and nary 

light. 
3 teaspoonfiils melted butter. 
1 saltspoonful salt. 

Pour in nine well-buttered ciips of same size as tlial 
used for measuring, and bake to a fine brown. Eat as soon 
as done, with sauce. 

( Cup Puddings.) 
3 eggs. - -^ 

The weight of the eggs in sugar and in flour. 
Half their weight in butter. 
2 tablespoonfuls milk. 
J teaspoonful soda, dissolved in hot water. 

Rub the sugar and butter together ; beat the yolks light 
and add then the milk and soda; lastly the flour and beaten 
whites alternately. Fill six small cups, well buttered, and 
bake twenty minutes, or untU a nice brown. Eat warm, 



Lemon Pudding.) »J« 

1 cup of sugar, 
4 eggs. 

2 tables])oonfuls corn-starch. 

2 lemons — juice of both and rind of one. 

1 pint milk. 

1 tablespoonful butter. 

Heat the milk to boiling, and stir in the corn-starch, 
wot with a few spoonfuls of cold water. Boil five minutes, 
stirring constantly. While hot mix iu the butter and set it 
»way to cool. Beat the yolks light, and add the sugar, miir 



BAK.ED PUDJJINGS. 401 

ing very thoroughly before putting in tlie lemon-jitictf and 
grated rind. Beat this to a stiff cream and add gradually 
to the corn-starch milk, wlien the latter is cold. Stir aU 
uuooth, jmt in a buttered dish, and bake. Eat cold. 

(LeM03S^ MfiEINGUE PuDDiNGj(tJe»-y Mtce). 

1 quart milk. 

2 cups bread-crumbs. 

4 3gg8. 

^ cup butter. 

1 cup white sugar. 

1 large lemon — juice and half the rind, grated. 

Soak the bread in the milk ; add the beaten yolks, with 
the butter and sugar rubbed to a cream, also the lemon. 
Bake in a buttered dish until firm and slightly brown. Draw 
to the door of the oven and cover with a meringue of the 
whites whipjjed to a froth with three tablespoonfuls of pew 
dered sugar, and a little lemon-juice. Brown very slightly; 
sift powdered sugar over it, and eat cold. 

You may make an orange pudding in the same way. 

CocoAfruT Pudding. 

^ lb. grated cocoanut. 

■J- cup stale sponge cake, crumbed fine. 

1 cup sugar. 

1 large cup rich milk — cream, if you can get it. 
6 eggs. 

2 teaspoonfuls vanilla, or rose-water. 

Cream the biitter and sugar, and add the beaten yolks. 
When these are well mixed, put in the cocoanut ; stir well 
before adding the milk, cake-crumbs, flavoring ; and lastly, 
the whites of three eggs. Whip the other whites stiff with 
three tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar; flavor with vanilla. 



403 COMMON SENSE, 

and just before takii.g the puiding from tte oven, spread 
chis meringue over the top, and close the oven until the 
ii'ing is slightly browned. 

'l?ftke in all three-quarters of an hour. 

(Obangb Makmalade Puddino. ) 

1 cup fine bread-crmnba. 
i " sugar. 

1 " milk or cream. 
4 eggs. 

2 teaspoonfuls butter. 

1 cup orange or other sweet marmalade. 

R\,l» the butter and sugar together ; add the yolks well 
Oeaten, the milk, bread-crumbs, and the whites whipped to 
a froth. Put a layer of this in the bottom of a well-buttered 
mould, spread thickly with some pretty stiff marmalade — ■ 
orange is nicest — ^then another layer of the mixture, and so 
on until the mould is full, having the custard mixture at 
top. Bake in a moderate oven about an hour, turn out of 
the mould upon a dish and serve, with sweetened cream or 
custard. 

Macaroni Pudding. »J« 

1 cup macaroni broken into inch lengths. 

1 quart milk. 
4 eggs. 

1^ lemon — juice and grated peeL 

2 tablespoonfiils butter, 
f cup sugar. 

Simmer the macaroni in half the milk until tender. 
WTjile hot stir in the butter, the yolks, well beaten up with 
the sugar, the lemon, and lastlj the whipped whites. Bake 



BAKED PUDDINGS. 403 

in a battered mould about half an hour, oi untU niceh 
broMTied. 

Vermicelli Pudding 

May be made according to the foregoing receipt. 

Neapolitan Pudding. — ( Veryjine.) •{• 

1 large cup fine bread-crumbs soaked in milk. 

f cup sugar. 

1 lemon — juice and grated rind. 

6 eggs. 

^ lb. stale sponge-cake, 

^ " macaroons — almond. 

^ cup jelly or jam, and one small tumbler of sherry 

wine. 
J- cup milk poured upon the bread-crumbs. 
1 tablespoonful melted butter. 

Rub the butter and sugar together; put the beaten 
) ^Iks in next ; then the soaked bread-ciiimbs, the lemon, 
jaice, and rind, and beat to a smooth, light paste before 
adding the whites. Butter your mould very well, and put 
in the bottom a light layer of dry bread-crumbs ; upon this 
one of macaroons, laid evenly and closely together. Wet 
these with wine, and cover with a layer of the mixture ; then 
with slices of sponge-cake, spread thickly with jelly or jam ; 
next macaroons, wet with wine, more custard, sponge-cake, 
and jam, and so on until the mould is full, putting a layer 
of the mixture at the top. Cover closely, and steam in the 
oven three-quarters of an hour ; then remove the cover to 
brown the top. Turn out carefully into a disli, and poor 
over it a sauce made of currant jelly warmed, and t«aten 
np with two tablespoonfuls melted butter and a glass of 
pale sherry. 

A plain round mould ia best for the pudding, as muck 



404 COMinN SENSE. 

of its comeliness depends upon the manner in -wbicL th» 
cake and macaroons are fitted in. 

It is a pretty and good pudding, and -will well repay 
the trifling trouble and care required to manage it properlj. 

It is also nice boiled in a buttered mould. 

Ehubaeb Pudding. 

Prepare the stalks as for jJes ; cover the bottom of a 
buttered pudding-dish with slices of bread and buttei ; 
cover with the rhubarb cut into short pieces ; sprinkle 
abundantly ■with sugar ; then put on another layer of bread 
and butter, and so on until your dish is full. Cover and 
steam, while baking, for half an hour. Eemove the lid 
and bake ten minutes, or until browned. 

Eat hot \vith sauce. 

VGOOSEBEKRY PUDDING.J 

1 pint ripe or nearly rijie gooseberries. 

6 or 8 slices toasted stale bread. 

1 cup milk. 

J " sugar. 

1 tablespoonful butter, melted. 

Stew the gooseberries ten minutes — very slowly, not to 
break them. Cut your slices of bread to fit your pudding- 
dish, and toast to a light brown on both sides. (Cut ofi" 
all the crust before toasting.) Dip each slice, while hot, 
in milk, and spread with the melted butter. Cover the 
bottom of the dish with them; jjut next a layer of (he 
gooseberries, sprinkled thickly with sugar ; more icastj 
more berries, and so on, until the dish is folL Covei 
closely and steam in a moderate oven twenty or twenty- 
five minutes. Tuna out upon a hot dish and pour over il 
ft good pudding-sauce. 



BAKED rUDDINGS. iOt 

ThiH is considered a wholesome breakfast dish, and ii 
eeitainly good. In this case omit the sauce, sift powdered 
Hugar over the top, and eat with the same. 

Newark PuDDrjra. 

1 cn|) fine bread-crumbs soaked- in a pint of the milk. 

1 quiii( of milk. 
5 eggs. 

2 tablespoonfuls rice-flour. 

J- lb. raisins seeded, cut in two, and dredged with flour. 
Vanilla or bitter almond extract. 

2 tablespoonfuls melted butter, and a half-teaspoonful 
soda. 

Beat the yolks light ; add the soaked bread-crumbs and 
milk ; stir to a smooth batter, put in the rice-flour, wet up 
first with cold milk ; the reserved pint of milk, the season- 
ing, butter, the fruit, lastly the whites whipped stiff. Bake 
an hour in a buttered mould; turn out and pour sauce 
over it, serving hard sauce also with it. 

Or, 

You may boil the mixture two hours in a floured cloth or 
buttered mould. 

Baked Plum Puddiko. 

] ^ lb. of flour. 

1 lb. raisins seeded, cut in two, and dredged with flour, 

^ lb. suet, freed from strings and powdered. 

1 cup sugar. 

2 oz. citron, shred fine. 

5 eggs — whites and yolks beaten separately. 
Nutmeg, cinnamon, and cloves — one teasi)0onful each, 
Siilk to make a thick batter of the flour. Begin with 
two cups, and add more if necessary. 



406 COMMON SENSE. 

Beat the yolks and sugar together; add the swetanjl 
8pice, then the flour, moistening the mix ture • gradually 
with milk until you can move the spoon in it. Dredge 
the fruit and put in by degrees ; finally, stir in the beaten 
whites. Beat all very hard and long before baking in a 
b\ittered mould. It mil require at least an. hour and ■ 
half in a moderate oven. 

Turn out, and eat with rich sweet sauce. 

Belle's Dumplings. 

1 quart prepared flour. 

2-J tablespoonfuls lard and butter mixed. 

2 cups of milk, or enough to make a soft dough, 

Roll out a quarter of an inch thick, cut into oblong 
pieces, rounded at the comers ; pui a great spoonful damscn 
cherry, or other tart preserve in the middle and roll into a 
dumpling. Bake three-quarters of an hour, brush over 
with beaten egg while hot, set back in the oven three min- 
ates to glaze. 

Eat hot with brandy or wine sauce. 

Or, 

You may make a roll-pudding of it by rolling out the pasto 
into an oblong sheet, spreading thickly with the preserves, 
folding it up as one would a travelling-shawl to be put into 
a strap, pinching the ends together that the juice may not 
escape, and boiling in a floured cloth fitted to the shape of 
the " roley-poley." Boil an hour and a half. 

Boiled Puddings. 

You can boil puddings in a bowl, a mould, or a cloth. 
The mould should have a closely-fitting top and bo buttered 
well — top and all — before the batter or dough is put in, 



BOILED PtTDDINGB. 401 

These moulds are usxiaJly made with hasps or other fasten- 
ing. In lack of this, you had better tie down the co\ei 
securely. I once boiled a pudding in a tin pail, the top of 
which I made more secure by fitting it over a cloth floured 
on the inside, lest the pudding should stick. The experi- 
ment succeeded admirably, and I commend the suggestion 
to those who find, after the pudding is mixed, that their 
mould leaks, or the bowl that did duty as a substitute has 
been broken, and nothing said to "the mistress" about it. 
If you use a bowl, butter it, and tie a floured cloth tightly 
OTer the top. If a cloth, have it clean and sweet, and flout 
bountifully on the inside. In all, leave room for batter, 
bread, lice, and cracker puddings to swell. Tie the string 
very tightly about the mouth of the bag, which must be 
made with/eZW seams at sides and bottom, the better to 
pxclude the water. 

The water must be boiling when the pudding goes in, 
and not stop boiling for one instant until it is done. If it 
is in a bag, this must be turned several times, under water, 
to prevent sticking or scorching to the .sides of the pot. 
The bag must also be entirely covered, while the wate* 
should not quite reach to the top of a mould. If you us«" 
a basin, dip the cloth in boiling water before dredging with 
flour on the inside. 

When the time is up, take mould, basin, or cloth from 
the boiling pot, and plunge iiistan&y into cold water ; then, 
turn out without the loss of a second. This will prevent 
sticking, and leave a clearer impression of the mould upon 
the contents. 

Boiled puddings should be sor\-ed as soon as they are 
done, as they soon become heavy. 

Many of the baked puddings I have described are quit« 
u good boi'.ed. As a safe rule, double the time of baking 
if ytm boU. 



408 COMMON biaJSE. 

Berby Pudding. 

1 pint of milk, 

2 eggs. 

1 saltspoonful salt. 

^ teaspoonful soda dissolved in hot water. 

J " cream-tartar, sifted through a mp of flcux 

Mid added to enough flour to Biake a thick batter. 

1 pint blackberries, rasjjberiies, currants, or huckle 
berries, well dredged with flour — stiwed in at the last. 

Boil one hour in buttered mould. 

Huckleberry Pudding. »J" 

1 pint milk. 

2 eggs. 

1 quart floiir — or enough for tliick batter. 

1 gill baker's yeast. 

1 saltspoonful salt. 

1 teaspoonful soda dissolved in boiling water. 

Nearly a quart of berries — well dredged with flour. 

Make a batter of eggs, milk, flour, yeast, salt, and soda, 
and set it to rise in a warm place about four hours. When 
you are ready to boil it, stir in the dredged fruit quickly 
and lightly. Boil in a buttered mould or a floured cloth 
for two hours. 

This will be found lighter and more wholesome tluut 
boiled pastry. 

Eat hot with swest sauce. 

Fruit Valise Pudding. 
] quart flour. 
1 lablespoonful lard, and same of butter. 

1 K^asjjoonf il soda dissolved in hot water. 

2 " c!-eani-tartar — sifted through the floor. 



BOILED PUDDINGS. 408 

1 aaltspoonful salt. 

2 cups milk, or enough to make the flour into soft 

dough. 

3 quart berries, chopped apples, sliced j eaches, or othei 

fruit; jam, preserves, canned fruit, or marmalade may 
be substituted for the berries. 

Roll out the crust less than half an inch thick — indeed, 
A quarter of an inch -will do — ^into an oblong sheet. Cover 
thickly with the fruit and sprinkle with sugar. Begin at 
oi.e end, and roll it up closely, the fruit inside. In putting 
this in, leave a narrow margin at the other end of the roll, 
which should be folded down closely like the flap of a pocket- 
book. Pinch the ends of the folded roll together, to prevent 
the escape of the fruit, and baste up in a bag, the same size 
And shape as the " valise." Flour the bag well before put- 
ting in the pudding, having previously dipped it — the cloth 
. — into hot water, and wring it oxxt. 

Boil an hour and a half. Serve hot with sauce, and cut 
crosswise in slices half an inch thick. 

Boiled Apple Dumplings. (iVo. 1.) »J« 

Make a paste according to the above receipt ; cut in 
«juares, and put in the centre of each an apple, pared and 
cored. Bring the comers together ; enclose each dumjding 
in a small square cloth, tied up bag-wise, leaving room to 
swell. Each cloth shoidd be dipped in hot water, wrung 
aut and floured on the inside before the apple is put iu, 

P.oil one hour. 

Applb Dumplings. {^ITo. 2,) Jfp 

1 quart flour. 

\ lb. suet. 

1 teaspoonful salt. 



410 OOMMON BENBK. 

i teaapoonful soda dissolved in hot water. 

1 " cream-tartar sifted in the flour. 

Cold water enough to make into a tolerably stiff panto. 

Roll out, cut into sqiiares, put in the middle of each a 
fine, juicy apple, pared and cored. Fill the hole left by 
the core with marmalade, or with sugar, wet with lemon- 
juice. Stick a clove in the sugar. Close the paste, tie up 
in the Moths, when you have wet them with hot water and 
floured them, and boil one hour. 

A pleasing idea for dumpling cloths is to crochet them 
Ln a close stitch with stout tidy cotton. They are easily 
done, wash and wear well, and leave a very pretty pattern 
upon the paste when they are opened. Crochet them round, 
with a cord for drawing run into the outer edge. 

Boiled Fruit Pudding. 

Prepare a paste in accordance with either of the fore- 
going receipts, but roll into one sheet. Lay apples, peaches, 
or berries in the centre, paring and slicing the fruit ; spiin- 
kle with sugar, and close the paste over them as you would 
a dumpling. Dip a stout cloth in hot water, flour the in- 
side, put in the pudding, tie tightly, and boU two hours and 
ahalf. 

Eat hot with sauce. 

Rice Dumplings. 

1 lb. rice boiled without strrrrng, until soft, and at the 

top dry. 
12 pippins, pared and cored. 
Strawberry marmalade or crab-apple jelly, 

liSt the rice cool upon a sieve or coarse clotli, that \\ 
may dry at the same time. Dip your dumpling cloths in hot 
water ; wring them out and flour well inside. Pu*^ a han dfid 



BOILED PtTPDINGB. 4:1 i 

iif the cold rice upon each, spreading it out into a smooth sheet 
Lay in ihe centre an apple ; fill the hole left by the core witL 
marmalade or jelly; draw tip the cloth carefully to enclose 
the apple with a coating of rice ; tie, and boil one hour. 

Turn out with care ; povir sweet sauce or rich sweetened 
cream over ihem, and send around more in a boat with 
tiiem. 

Suet Dumplings {plain). 

2 cups fine bread-crumbs, soaked in a vei-y little milk. 
1 cup beef suet, freed from strings, and powdered. 

4 eggs, whites and yolks separated, and beaten verji 
light. 

1 tablcspoonful sugar. 

1 teaspoonful cream-tartar, sifted into the flour. 

^ " soda dissolved in boiling water. 

] « salt. 

Enough milk to mix into a stiff paste. 

Make into large balls with floured hands ; put into 
dumpling cloths dipped into hot water and floured inside: 
leave room to swell, and tie the strings very tightly. 

Boil three-quarters of an hour. Serve hot with wiuf 
sauce. 

Fkuit Suet Dumplings 

Are made as above, ^vith the addition of ^ lb. raisins, 
seeded, chopped, and dredged with floiir, and ^ lb. currants, 
washed, dried, and dredged. 
Boil one hour and a quarter. 

(Boiled Indian Meal Pudding.] 
1 quart mil^. 
1 " Indian meal. 

3 eggs. 

3 heaping tablespoonfuls sugar, and 1 teaspoonfiJ %dt 
J lb. beef suot, chopped into powder. 



412 COMMON SENSE. 

Scald the milk, and while boiling hot stir ia the me* 
and suet with the salt. When cold add the yolks, beaten 
light with the sugar, then the whites. Dip your bag in hoi 
water, flour it, and fill half full with the mixture, as it wil: 
swell very much. Boil five hoiu'S. - 

Eat very hot with butter and sugar. 

Cabinet Pudding. 
^Ib flour. 
I " butter, 
6 eggs. 
1^ lb. sugar. 

^ " raisins, seeded and cut in three pieces each. 
J " currants, washed and dried. 
^ cup cream or milk. 
•J lemon — juice and rind grated. 

Cream the butter and sugar ; add the beaten yolks, then 
the milk and the flour, alternately with the wliites. Lastly, 
Bor in the fruit, weU dredged with flour, turn into a but- 
nsred mould, and boil two hours and a half at least. 

Serve hot, with cabinet pudding sauce over ic. (Sm 
Sweet Sauces.) 

Eve's Pudding. 
1 heaping cup of fine dry bread-crum'os. 
■J lb. pared and chopped apples. 
•J- " raisins, seeded and chopped. 
6 oz. currants, washed and dried. 
6 eggs. 

1 teaspoonful nutmeg, and same of allspice. 
1 glass brandy. 

1 cup sugar, and 1 teaspoonful salt. 
J- lb. suet, chopped to powder. 
Work the sugar into the beaten yolks ; then the suet 
ftnd crumbs, with the chopped ipj)les; next tho brandy 



BOILED PDDDIHG8. 413 

wad spice, then the whipped whites ; lastly the fruit, weL 
dredged with flour. 

Boil in a buttered bowl or mould three hjurs. Rat ho< 
with, 'sauce. 

Tub Queen of Pldm Puddikgs. 

1 lb. butter. 

1 " of suet, freeii from strings and chopped fine. 

1 " of sugar. , 
2i lbs. of flour. 

2 " of raisins, seeded, chopped, and dredged wi:Ji 
flour. 

2 lbs. of currants, picked over carefully after they ar« 

washed. 
■J lb. of citron, shred fine. 
12 eggs, whites and yolks beaten se2>arately. 
1' pint of milk. 

1 cup of brandy. 
■J oz. of cloves. 

J " of mace. 

2 grated nutmegs. 

Cream the butter and sugar ; beat in the yolks when 
you have whipped them smooth and light ; next put in the 
milk; then the flour, alternately with the beaten whites] 
then the brandy and spice ; lastly the fruit, weU dredged 
with flotir. Mix all thorouglily ; wring out your pudding- 
cloth in hot water ; flour well inside, pour in the mixture, 
and boU five hours. 

I can confidently recommend this as the best plum pud- 
ding I have ever tasted, even when the friend at whose 
table I had fii-st the pleasure of eating it imitated the 
example of " good King Arthur's " economical B])oiise, and 
what we "couldn't eat that night," "next day fried," b-y 
heating a little butter in a frying-pan, and laying in s.'icei 



Hi COSOION SENSE. 

of her pudding, warmed them into almost their origina< 
excellence. It ■will keep a long time — ^in a locked closet oi 
safe. 

Obange Koley-Poley. 

Make a light paste as for apple dumplings or valise 
pudding, roll in an oblong sheet, and lay oranges (sweat 
ones), peeled, sliced, and seeded, thickly all over it. Sprin- 
kle with white sugar ; scatter a teaspoonful or two of the 
grated yellow peel over all and roll up closely, folding 
down the end tii secure the syrup. Boil in a pudding- 
ijloth one hour and a half. 

Eat with lemon sauce. 

Cherry or Currant Pyramid. 

Wash and stone the cherries, or pick the currants from 
their stems. Make some good light crust, roll it out a 
quarter of an inch thick, and cut for the bottom a round 
piece about the size of a tea-plate. You can use the top 
of a tin pail for a cutter. Spread your fruit upon this, 
and sprinkle with sugar, leaving a half inch margin all 
around. Roll out a second sheet an inch less in diameter 
than the first, lay it carefully upon the fruit, and turn up 
the margin of the lower piece over the edge of this. Spread 
this, in turn, with fruit and stigar, and cover with a thirc 
and lessening round ; proceeding in this order until the 
sixth and topmost cover is not more than three inches 
across. Have ready a conical cap of stout muslin adapted 
to the proportions and dimensions of your pile ; dip it in 
ooiling water, flour inside, and draw gently over all. Is 
Rhould be large enough to meet and lie imder the base 
trithout cramping the pyramid. 

Boil two hours, and eat with sweet sauce. 



raiTTEES, PANCAKBB, ETC. ilS 

FRITTEllS, PANCAKES, Etc. 

Have plenty of nice sweet lard in which to frj fril tor^ 
and test the heat by dropping in a teaspoonful before you 
risk more. If right, the batter will rise quickly to the sur- 
face in a puff-ball, spluttering and dancing, and will speedily 
tissume a rich golden brown. Take up, as soon as done, 
with a skimmer, shaking it to disloolge any drops of lard 
that may adhere ; pile in a ho* dish, sift sugar over them, 
and send instantly to the table. Fry as many at a time as 
the kettle will hold, and send in hot fresh ones while the 
batter lasts. A round-bottomed saucepan or kettle, rather 
■vide at top, is best for frying them. 

Use a frying-pan for pancakes ; heat it ; put in a tea- 
spoonful or two of lard and run it quickly over the bottom; 
Shen pour in a large ladleful of batter — enough to cover the 
ibottom of the pan with a thin sheet. Turn with a tin 
•spatula, very carefuUy, to avoid tearing it. The frying-pan 
•should be a small one. Have ready a hot dish; turnout 
The pancake upon it, cover with powdered sugar, and roll 
up dexterously like a sheet of paper. Send half a dozen to 
table at once, keeping them hot by setting the dish in the 
oven until enough are baked. 

I am thus explicit in these general instructions to save 
myself the trouble, and the reader the tedium, of a repetition 
under each receipt. 

In olden times it was a boast of notable cooks that they 
could toss a pancake from the pan out of the top of the 
chimney with such accuracy of calculation, that it would 
turn itself on the way back, and settle in its place, ready, 
like St. Lawrence, to have the other side fried. I never 
saw a pancake tossed, although in my childish days I saw 
hundreds fried by the honorable tribe-— now so fast passing 
»way- -of Old Virginia cooks, I dt> u(»t a.lvise this aero. 



416 COMMON SENSE. 

batic system of culinary exploit, especially for beginners 
Indeed, I doubt if the pancakes would be found equal to th« 
journey in these days of tight chimney-throats and cooking 
stoves. They must be out of practice as ■well as their nianii- 
facturers. Be careful not to have too much grease in fJi* 
pan. 

Fritters {No. 1). »J* 

1 pint flour. 

4 eggs. 

1 teaspoonful salt. 

1 pint boiling water. 
Stir the flour into the water by degrees, and stir until 
it has boiled three minutes. Let it get almost cold, when 
beat in the yolks, then the whites of the eggs, which must 
be previously whipped sti^. 

Fritters {No. 2). 
6 eggs. 
1 quart mUk. 
3 cups flour. 

■J teaspoonful soda dissolved in hot water. 
1 teaspoonful cream-tartar sifted into the flour. 
A little salt. 

Beat the yolks and whites sepai-ately, of course ; stir the 
tnilk in with the former, then the soda, the flour, and salt, 
finally the whites. Beat very hard, and fry at once, in 
great ladlefuls. 

Apple Fritters. »{• 

A batter according to the preceding receipt. 

6 large juicy apples, pared and quartered. 

1 glass brandy. 

1 tablespoouful white sugar. 

1 teasj)ooiLful ciu>>'j.mon. 



PEirrEES, PAXCAKEB, ETC. HI 

Piit the brandy, a very little water, the sugar, and the 
Bpice into a covered saucepan with the apples. Stir gently 
until half done ; drain ofl" the liqnor, every drop ; miu~^ 
the apple when cold, and stir into the batter. 

Or, 

You. may parboil the apples in clear water, Tith a verj 
little sugar, and proceed as just directed. 



Jelly Fritteus. 

1 scant cup sponge-cake crumbs — very fine and dry. 

1 cup boiling milk. 
4 eggs. 

2 tablespoonfuls powdered sugar. 

1 teaspoonfid corn-starch, wet in a little cold milk, 

2 tablespoonfuls currant or cranberry jelly. 

Soak the cake -crumbs in the boiling milk, and stir in 
the corn-starch. Heat all together to a boil, acii-ring all 
the time. Beat the yolks light, and add to this as it cools, 
with the sugar. Whip in the jelly, a little at a time, and 
put in the whites — beaten to a stiff froth — at tue last. 

Fry immediately. 

Bread Fritters. 

1 quart milk — boiling hot. 

2 cups fine bread cmmbs (aerated bread ia best). 

3 eggs. 

1 teaspoonful nutmeg. 
1 tablespoonful butter — molted. 

1 saltspoonful salt, and the same of soda, dissolved if 
hot water. 

Soak the bread in the boiling milk ten uiinates, in a 
oovered bowl. Beat to a smoDth paste ; add tiie rvUpped 
18" 



418 30MM0N SENSE. 

yolks, tlie buttui, salt, soda, and finally the whites, wLifpod 
stiff. 

Quken's Toast. 

Fry slices of stale baker's bread — aerated, if you can get 
it — in boiling lard to a fine brown. Dip each slice quickly 
in boiling water to remove the grease. S^jrinkle with ])ow- 
dered sugar, and pile upon a hot j)late. Before toasting, 
out out the slices with a round cake-cutter, taking off all tha 
crust. They look better when piled up. Pour sweet wine 
sauce over them when hot, and serve at once. 

Jelly-Cake Fritteks (wry nice). »{« 

Some stale sponge, or plain cup cake, cut into rounds 
«eith a cake-cutter. 

Hot lard. 

Strawbeny or other jam, or jelly. 

A little boiling milk. 

Cut the cake carefully and fry a nice brown. Dip each 
»lice for a second in a bowl of boiling milk, draining thia 
off on the side of the vessel ; lay on a hot dish and spread 
thickly with strawberry jam, peach jelly, or other delicate 
conserve. Pile them neatly and send around hot, with 
oream to pour over them. 

Tliis is a nice way of using uj) stale cake, and if rightly 
prepared, the dessert is almost equal to Neaj oUtan pudding. 

Pancakes. 
1 pint of flour. 
6 eggs. 

1 saltspoonful salt, and same of soda dissolved in 
vinegar. 

Milk to make a thin batter. Begin with two cups and 
add until the batter is of the right consistency. Beat the 



SWEET, OK PtTDDING SAUCES. 41 S 

yolka bgb-., add tte salt, soda, and two cups of milk, tliei 
the flciur Hiid beaten whites alternately, and thin with mor« 
milk. 

Jelly ok Jam Pancakes. 

A batter as above. When the pancakes are fried, lay 
upon a hot plate, spread quickly with nice jam or jelly, and 
roU up neatly ujjon the preserves. Sprinkle lightly with 
powdered sugar, and send arovmd with wine sauce or sweet- 
ened cream. 



SWEET, OE PUDDING SAUCES. 
Hakd Sauce. »{« 

Stir to a cream 1 cup of butter. 

3 cujjs of powdered sugar. 
When light, beat in f teacup o" Trine. 
Juice of a lemon. 
2 teaspoonfuls nutmeg. 

Beat long and hard until several shades lighter in colo/ 
vhaii at first and creamy in consistency. Smooth into slia]i8 
with a broad knife dipped in cold water, and stamp with a 
wooden mould, first scalded and then dipped in cold water 
Bet upon the ide until the pudding is served. 

BEE-.n:ivE Sauce. i»J« 

Mix a hard sauce according to the previous receipt, and 
*hen light, set aside three or four tablespoonfuls in a plate. 
To the larger quantity left add gradually, cheiTy, cuiTaiit, 
or cranberry juice enough to color it a good pink, lied 
jelly will do if beiTies are out of season. Beat the color- 
ing matter in thoroughly, and shape into a conical moiind 
Roll half a sheet of note-pajjcr into a long, narrow funuaL 



t20 COMMON SENSE. 

tie a string about it to keep it in snape, and fill witL tt» 
nncolored sauce. Squeeze it out gently tlirough the small 
end in a ridge, beginning at the base of the cone and wind 
ing about it to the top, filling your funnel as it is emptied, 
and guiding it carefully. The effect of the alternate whit© 
and-pink Unes is very pretty. 

If the pudding is one to which chocolate would be a 
pleasant addition, color with gi'ated chocolate, rubbed 
smooth in a little of the wine, and ridge with white. Sot 
uj)on the ice or upon the cellar-floor until firm. Stick a 
colored almond or other ornamental candy upon the top. 

This bee-hive is easily made, and will set off even a plain 
pudding handsomely. 

( Brandy Sauce j(7iar<Z), »J« 

^ cup butter. 

2 cups powdered sugar. 

1 wineglass brandy. 

1 teaspoonful mixed cinnamon and mace. 

Warm the butter very slightly, work in the sugar, and, 
when this is light, the brandy and spice. Beat hard — shape 
into a mould and set in a cold place until wanted. 

VWhite Wine BAvcvUliquid). "J* 

■J- cup butter. 

2^ cups powderod sugar. 

2 wineglasses pale sherry or white wine. 
^ cup boiling water. 

1 teaspoonful nutmeg. 

Work the butter into the sugar, moistening, as you go 
on, with boiling water. Beat long and hard until youi 
bowl is nearly full of a creamy mixture. Then add gradu 
■llf the wine aij.d nutmeg, still beating hard. Turn into » 



SWEET, OK PUDDING 8AUCEB. 421 

kin pail, set ■within a saucepan of toUing water, luid stu 
frequently until the sauce is hot, bat not until it boils. 
Take the saucepan from the fire and leave the pail f tand- 
Lng in the water, stirring the contents now and then, until 
joii are ready to serve the pudding. 

If rightly mide, this sauce will be nearly as white at 
milk. f-^ \ 

ILf.mon Sauce.) ►{« 

1 large cup of sugar. 

Nearly half a cup of butter, 

1 egg. 

1 lemon — all the juice and half the grated peeL 

1 teaspoonfui nutmeg. 

3 tablospoonfuls boiling water. 

Cream the butter and sugar and beat in the egg whipped 
light ; the lemon and nutmeg. Beat hard ten minutes, and 
add, a spoonful at a time, the boiling water. Put in a tin 
pail and set within th^ uncovered top of the tea-kettle, 
which you must keep boiling until the steam heats the 
Bauce very hot, but not to boiling. Stir constantly. 

Milk Pudding Sauce. 

2 eggs, beaten stiff. 

1 large cup of sugar. 

5 tablespoonfuls boiling milk. 

•J- teaspoonfui arrow-root or corn-starch, wet with cold 

milk. 
1 teaspoonfui nutmeg, or mace. 
1 tablespoonful butter. 

Rub the bvitter into the sugar, add the Veaten eggs, and 
»rork all to a creamy froth. Wet the corn-starch and put 
in next with the spice — finally, poxir in by the spoonful the 
bouing milk, beating well all the time. Set wltliin a sauce 



4-32 COMMOJS SENSE 

pan of bailing water five minutes, stirring all the while, b?j4 
do not let the sauce boil. 

This is a good sauce for bread and other simple pud 



dings. 



Cabinet Pudding Sauce. 



Tf oiks of four eggs, whipped very Kght. 

1 lemon — juice and half the grated peel. 

1 good glass of wine. 

1 teaspoonful of cinnamon. 

1 cup of sugar. 

1 tablespoonful of butter. 

Rub the butter into the sugar, add the yolks, lemon, and 
spice. Beat ten minutes and put in the wine, still stirring 
hard. Set within a saucepan of boiling water, and beav 
while it heats, but do not let it boil. 

Pour over the piidding. 

Fruit Pudding Sauce. »J« 
^ cup butter. 
2J cups sugar. 

1 dessert spoonful corn-starch wet in a litlte cold mUk. 
1 lemon — juice and half the grated peel. 
1 glass of wine. 
1 cup boiling water. 

Cream the butter and sugar well ; poixr the com starch 
Into the boiling water and stir over a clear fire until it is 
well thickened ; put all together in a bowl and beat five 
minutes before returning to the saucepan. Heat once, a) 
most U the boiling point, add the wine, and serve 

Custard Sauce, 

1 pint of milk. 

2 eggs, beaten very light. 



SWEBa', OE PODDING 8AIICE8. 

^ wineglass of brandy. 

1 cup poyrdered sugar, stirred into the eggs. 

Nutmeg to taste. 

1 teaspoonfiil vanilla. 

Heat the milk to boiling, and add by degrees to th« 
eeateu eggs and sugar ; put in the nutmeg, and set -witlun a 
gaucei)an of boiliag water. Stir until it begins to thicken. 
Take it off and add the brandy gradually. Set, until it il 
wanted, within a pan of boiling water. 

Pour over the pudding when it comes from the moiUd. 

Jelly Sauce. ►J" 

i cup currant jelly. 

1 tablespoonful butter, melted. 

^ dessert spoonful arrowroot or corn-starch ; wet with 

cold water. 
1 glass pale sherry. 
3 tablespoonfuls boiling water. 

Stir the an-owroot into the boiling water and heat, stir- 
ing all the time, until it thickens ; add the butter, and set 
aside until almost cool, when beat in, spoonful by spoonful; 
the jelly to a smooth pink paste. Pour in the wine, stir 
hard, and heat in a tin vessel, set within another of boiling 
water, until very hot. 

Pour over and around Neapolitan, bread-and-maim<* 
iaile puddings, cake-fritters, and Queen's toast. 

Sweetened Cbeam {cold). 

1 pint of cream. 

4 tablespoonfuls powdered sugar. 

1 teaspoonful of nutmeg. 

1 " vanilla. 



424 COMMON SEN8B. 

Mix all -well together, stirring until the sugar is dia 
solved. Eat with jam puddings, queen, of all puddinga 
Alice's pudding, and peach roley-poley. 

Cream Sauce (hot). 

1 pint cream. 

4 tablespoonfuls powdered sugar. 

Whites of two eggs, beaten stiff. 

Extract of vanilla or bitter almonds, one teaspoonful. 

1 teaspoonful niitmeg. 

Heat the cream slowly in a vessel set in a saucepan ol 
btiling water, stirring often. When scalding, but not toil- 
ing hot, remove it from the fire, put in the sugar and nut- 
meg ; stir three or four minutes and add the whites. Mix 
thoroughly and flavor, setting the bowl containing it in a 
pan of hot water untU the pudding is served, stirring now 
and then. 

Jelly Sauce {N^o. 2). ^ 

^ cup currant jelly. 

2 tablespoonfuls melted butter. 

1 lemon — juice and half the grated peel. 
J- teaspoonful nutmeg. 

2 glasses wine, and a tablespoonful powdered sugar. 

Heat the butter a Kttle- more than blood-warm ; beat 
the jelly to a smooth batter and add gradually the butter, 
the lemon, and nutmeg. Warm almost to a boil, stirring 
all the while ; beat hard, put in the sugar, lastly the wine. 
Set in a vessel of hot water stirring now and then, until it 
is wanted. Keep it covered to hinder the escape of thi 
wine flavor. Stir well before pouring out. 

This is a very fine sauce, particularly for cabin"* and 
Neapolitan puddings. 



OCBTAKDS, BLANCMANGES, KTO. iiii 

Custards, Blan'c-Manoe, Jkllies, and Ckeahs, 

A good rule for custard is five eggs to a quart of milk, 
uiil a tablespoonful of sugar to each egg, although a good 
plain custard can be made ■^'ith an egg for each cup of milk 
and four tablespoonfuls of sugar to the quart. Creams and 
custards that are to be frozen must have at least one-third 
more sugar than those which are not to undergo this 
process. 

In heating the milk for custard, do not let it quite boil 
before adding the yolks. My plan, which has proved a safe 
one thus far, is to take "^he scalduig milk from the fire, and 
instead of poiiring the beaten eggs into it, to put a spoonful 
or two of the milk to them, beating well all the while, add- 
ing more and more milk as I mix, until there is no longer 
danger of sudden curdling. Then, return all to the tire 
and boil gently until the mixture is of the right consistency. 
From ten to fifteen minutes shoidd thicken a quart. Stii 
constantly. 

Always boil milk and custard iji a vessel set within 
another of boiling water. If you have not a custard or 
fariaa kettle, improvise one by setting a tin pail inside of a 
pot of hot water, taking care it does not float, also that the 
water is not so deep as to bubble over the toj). Custards 
are better and lighter if the yolks and whites are beaten 
separately, the latter stirred in at the last. ^ 

Boiled Custakd. 

1 quart of milk. 

Tolks of five eggs and the whites of seven — (two foj 

the m6ringue), 
6 tablespoonfuls sugar. 
Vanilla flavoring — 1 teaspoonful to the i)int. 

Heat the milk almost to boiling ; beat the yolks ligkl 



426 COMMON SENSE. 

and stir in the sugar. Add the milk in the mamiBr d» 
scribed in "general directions" at head of this section) 
Btir in- five whites whipped stifl"; return to the fire and stii 
until thick, but not until it breaks. Season it with vauilla, 
pour into glass cups ; whip the whites of two eggs to a 
meringue with a heaping tablespoonful of powdered sugar, 
and when the custard is cold, pile a little of this upon the 
top of each cup. You may lay a preserved strawberry ot 
cherry, or a bit of melon sweetmeat, or a little bright jellj 
r pon each. 

Almond Custards. 

1 pint milk (half cream). 

J lb. almonds, blanched and pounded to a paste, a few at 
a time in a Wedgewood mortar, adding gradually — 

2 tablespoonfuls of rose-water. 

Yolks of three eggs and whites of four — (two for m^ 

ringue). 
4 tablespoonfuls sugar. 
1 teaspoonful extract bitter almond in m6ringue. 

Scald the milk, add the beaten yolks, the sugar, the 
al-nond paste, and the whites of two eggs. Boil, stirring 
constantly until it thickens. Stir up well when almost cold 
and pour into cups. Make a meringue of the wliites of 
t-wo eggs and two tablespoonfuls powdered sugar, flavored 
\r:th. bitter almond, and heap upon each cup. 

Quaking Custard. 4« 

3 cups milk. 

Yolks of four eggs — reserving the whites for m6 

ringue. 
j package Cooper's or Coxe's gelatine. 
6 tablespoonfuls sugar. 
Vanilla or lemon flavoring. Juice of a lenioji Ln mS 

ringue. 



0DSTARD8, BI AUC-MANGES, ETO. 427 

ScjJc tbe gelatine in a cup of the cold milk Uvo hours 
riien heat the rest of the milk to boiling, add that iu n'hick 
the gelatine is, and stir over the five until the latter is quit* 
dissolved. Take from the fire, and let it stand five minutes 
before putting in the beaten yolks and sugar. Heat slowly 
until it begins to tliicken perceptiljly, not boil — say seven 
or eight minutes, stirring constantly. When nearly coldj 
havuig stirred it every few minutes during the time, flavor 
it, wash out your mould in cold water, and without wiping 
it, pour in the custard and set on tho ice or in a cold place 
to harden. When quite firm, turn into a cold dish, loosen- 
ing it by wrapping about the mould a cloth wrung out in 
hot water, or dipping the mould for an instant iu warm, 
not boiling water. Have ready the whites whipped to a 
froth with three tablespoonfuls powdered sugar and juice 
of a-iemon. Heap neatly about the base of the moulded 
cnctard, like snow-drifts. If you like, you may dot this 
with minute bits of currant jelly. 

This is a pleasing dish to the eye and taste. 

Floating Is»-and. »f« 

1 quart of milk. 

4 eggs — whites and yolks beaten separately. 
4 tablespoonfuls (heaping) white sugar. 

2 teaspoonfuls extract bitter almond or vanilla, 
^ cup cnri'ant jelly. 

Beat the yolks well, stir in the stigar, and add the hot, 
aot boiling milk, a Kttle at a time. Boil mitil it begins to 
thicken. When cool, flavor and pour into a glass dish, firut 
stirring it up well. Heap upon it a meringiie of the white* 
into which you have beaten, graduaUy, half a cup of cur- 
rant, cranberry, or other bright tart jelly. Dot with bita 
of jelly out into rings or stars, or straight slips laid on in s 
pattern. 



428 common ben8e. 

( Spanish Ckeam.; 4« 

^ box of gelatine. 

1 quart of milk. 

Yolks of three eggs. 

1 small cup of sugar. 
8oak tLe gelatine an hour in tlie milk j put on thi fire 
and stir well as it warms. Beat the yolks very light \(ith 
the sugar, add to the scalding milk, and heat to boiliug 
point, stirring all the while. Strain through thin muslin 
or tarlatan, and when almost cold, put into a mould wet 
with cold water. Flavor with vanilla or lemon. 

VBavarian Cs:EJ^{Ve')-yJme). 

1 quart sweet cream. 

Yolks only of four eggs. 

J oz. of gelatine or isinglass. 

1 cup (small) of sugar. 

2 teaspoonfuls vanilla or bitter almond extract. 

Soak the gelatine in just enough cold water to cover it, 
for an hour. Drain, and s^ir into a pint of the cream 
made boiling hot. Beat the yolks smooth with the sugar, 
and add the boiling mixture, beaten in a little at a time. 
Heat until it begins to thicken, but do not actually boil ; 
remove it from the fire, flavor, and while it is still hot stij 
in the other yint of cream, whipped or chm-ned in a syll* 
bub chum to a stiff froth. Beat in this " whip," a spoon 
ful at a time, into the custard until it is the consistency of 
sponge-cake batter. Dip a mould in cold water, pom u 
the mixture, and set on the ice to form. 

Snow Custard. »J« 

•J package Coxe's gelatine. 
3 eggs. 



CUBTAKZJS, BLANO-MAJTGBa BTIU 429 

1 pint milk. 

2 cups of sugar 
Juice of one lemon. 

Soak tho gelatine one hour in a teacnpful of cold water 
5o this, at the end of this time, add one pint boiling -water, 
Slir until the gelatine is thoroughly dissolved ; add two- 
thirds of the sugar and the lemon-juice. Beat the whites 
of the eggs to a stiff froth, and when the gelatine is quite 
cold, whip it into the whites, a spoonful at a time, for at least 
an hour. "Whip steadily and evenly, and when all is stiff, 
pour into a mould, previously wet with cold water, and set 
in a cold place. In four or five hours turn into a glass 
nish. 

Make a custard of the tnilk, eggs, and remainder of the 
sHgar, flavor with vanilla or bitter almond, and when the 
meringue is turned out of the mould, pour this around the 
uaso. 

Baked Custard. 

1 quart of milk. 

■4 eggs, heedfm light — whites and yolks separately. 

5 tablespoonfuls sugar, mixed with the yolks. 

Nutmeg and vanilla. 

Scald but not boU the milk ; add by degrees to the 
beaten yolks, and when well mixed, stir in the wliites. 
Flavor, and pour into a deep dish, or custard-ciips of white 
BDcme-china. ^et these in a pan of hot water, grate nutmeg 
Upon each, and bake until firm. Eat cold from the cups, 

Fkench Tapioca Custakd. i^ 

6 dessert spoonfuls tapioca. 

1 quart of milk. 

1 jiint of cold \^ater. 

3 eggs. 



430 COMMON SENSE. 

1 ieaspDonful vaiiilla, or olLer esseuce. 
1 heaping cup of sugar, 
A pinch of salt. 

Soak the tapioca in the water five hours. Let the milk 
some to a boil ; add the tapioca, the water in which it was 
boilfid, and a good pinch of salt. Stir until boiling hot, and 
add gradually to the beaten yolks and sugar. Boil again 
{always m a vessel set within anotier of hot water), stir- 
ring constantly. Let it cook until thick, but not too long, 
Rs the custard will break. Five minutes after it reaches the 
boil will suffice. Pour into-a bowl, and stir gently into the 
mixture the wliites of the eggs, beaten to a stiff froth. 
Flavor, and set aside in a glass dish until very cold. 

Eat with an accompaniment of light cake and bnindied, 
Dr canned j)eaches or pears. This will be found a verv 
delightful dessert. 

Tapioca Bt -vnc-mangb. 

^ lb. tapioca, soaked in a cuj of cold water four hoxiis. 

1 pint rich now milk. 
J cup of sugar. 

2 teaspoonfuls bitter almond oi vanilla essence. 
A little salt. 

Heat the milk, and stir in the soaked tapioca. When 
it has dissolved, add the sugar. Boil s^owiy fifteen minutes, 
stirring all the time; take from the fire^ and beat untiJ 
nearly cold. Flavor and pour into a n-ould dipued ia 
cold water. Turn out, and pour cold swe^to>ied f«Wiii» 
around it. 

Sago Blanc-mange. 

Maj be made in the same way as tapioca. 



OtrSTAEDS, BLANO-MAITGEb, eto. 431 

Cobn-Stakch Blanc-manqe. >|» 
1 quart of milk. 
4 tablespoonftils corn-starch, wet in a little cold w» 

t«r. 
3 eggs, well beaten — whites and yolks separately, 
1 cup of sugar. 

Vanilla, lemon, or other essence. 
1 saltspoouful salt. 

Heat the milk to boiling ; stir in the com starch and 
Bait, and boU together five minutes (in a farina-kettle), then 
add the yolks, beaten light, with the sugar ; boil two min- 
utes longer, stirring all the while ; remove the mixture from 
tne fire, and beat in the whipped whites while it is boiling 
hot. Pour into a mould wet with cold water, and set in 9 
cold place. Eat with sugar and cream. 

Fauina Blanc-mange 

Is made according to the above receipt, but boiled fif 
teen minutes before the eggs are added. You may omit 
the eggs if you like, and only want a plain dessert. 

Arrowroot Blanc-manoe. >^ 

3 cups of new milk. 

2^ tablespoonfuls of arrowroot, wet up with cold m.ilk. 
f cup of sugar. 

Vanilla, lemon, or bitter almond flavoring, with a Uttlfl 
white wine. 

Mix the arrowroot to a smooth batter witu one cup of 
the milk. Heat the remainder to boiling ; add the arrow 
poot, stirring constantly. When it begins to thicken put 
in tho sugar, and cook ten minutes longer, still stirring it 
well from the sides and bottom. Take it oflF; beat well f ve 



432! COMMON SENSE. 

mill .iteB ; flav ar witli the essence and a small wineglass of 
wliite •wine. Give a hard final stir before putting it into a 
mould wet mth cold water. 

This is Yiirj nourishing for invalids and young children 
Fov the latter you may omit the wine. 

Almond Blanc-makoe. »{« 

1 quart of milk. 

1 oz. Cooper's gelatine. 

3 ozs. of almonds, blanched and pounded in a mortar, 

with 
1 tablespoonful of rose-water, added to prevent oiling. 
I cup Bvigar. 

Heat the milk to boiling, having previously soaked the 
gelatine in a cup of it for an liour. Turn in this when the 
fcoilk is scalding hot ; add the pounded almond-paste, and 
stir all together ten minutes before putting in the sugar. 
When the gelatine has dissolved, remove the blanc-mange 
rrom the vessel of boiling water in which you have cooked it, 
■nd strain through a thin muslin bag, pressing it well to get 
uut the flavor of the almonds. There should be three or 
toui V' iter ones among them. Wet a mould with cold 
water, aut in the blanc-mange, and set in a cold place until 
firm. 

Yol may make blanc-mange without the almonds, al- 
■ihough it will not be sc nice — and substitute vaniUa tot 
tho rose-water, 

NKArOLITAN ElANC-MANGE. •!« 

Make according ta the foregoing receipt, and, after strain 
big, separ.ate into four different portions, allowing about a 
Cupful of tlie mixture for each. Have ready 



OTJBTAKna. BLAN0-MANGE8, ETC. 433 

1 great tablespoonl'ul chocolate, wet ■with a very littla 
boiling water, and rubbed to a smooth paste, for tha 
brown coloring. 

Yolk of an egg beaten light for the yellow. 

1 great tablespoonful currant jelly for the pink. 

Beat the chocolate into one portion, mixing it well ; the 
jelly into another, the egg into a third, returning this and 
that, flavored with chocolate, to the fire, and stirring until 
very hot, but not boiling. Leave the fourth uncolored. When 
quite cold and a little stiff, pour carefully into a wet mould 
—the white first ; then the pink ; next the yellow; and tha 
chocolate last. Of course, when the blanc-mange is turned 
out, this order of colors will be reversed. Set in a cold 
jjlace. Loosen, when firm, by dipping the mould for a mo- 
knent in warm water, and working the top free from the 
wdge with a few light touches of your fingers. This is a 
ihandsome dish and easily managed. Currant juice or cron- 
uerry color a finer pink than jelly, but are apt to thin the 
nlanc-mange, unless used cautiously. A little vanilla im- 
proves the chocolate. 



[ Jauite-mange. j »}« 

1 oz. Coxe's gelatine, soaked in half a cup cold water 

une hour. 
1 cup of boiling water. 
Yolks of four eggs beaten very light. 
1 orange, juice and half the grated peel. 
1 lemon " and one-third the grated peel. 
1 cup white wine or clear pale sherry. 
1 cup powdered sugar and a good pincJi of cinnamon. 

Stir the soaked gelatine in the boiling water until dia- 
RolFcd ; take from the fire and beat, a little at a time, into 
the yolks; return to the inner saucepan with the sugar, 
19 



434 OOMMON SENSE; 

orange, lemon, and cinnamon. Stir over a ckar fire unlil ii 
is boiling hot ; put in the wine and strain through a hair • 
sieve or a piece of tarlatan. Set away in a mould wol 
with cold water. 

The success of this dish depends much upon the stirring 
and the watchfulness of the cook. The mixture should not 
be allowed to boil at any moment. 

Velvet Blano-mange. ej« 

2 cups of sweet cream. 

•J oz. Cooper's gelatine, soaked in a very little cold vrat^ 

one hour. 
^ half cup white sugar (powdered). 
] teaspoonful extract of bitter almonds. 
' glass white wine. 

Heat the cream to boiling, stir in the gelatine and sugai , 
and, so soon as they are dissolved, take from the fire. Bea • 
ten minutes, or, what is' better, churn in a syllabub-chum 
until very light ; flavor, and add by degrees the wine, mixing 
It in well. Put into moulds wet with cold water. 

Chocolatk Blanc-mange. 

1 quart of milk. 

1 oz. Cooper's gelatine, soaked in a cup of the milk one 

hour. 
4 heaping tablespoonfuls of grated chocolate, rubbed op 

with a little milk. 

3 eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately. 
f Dup sugar and 2 teaspoonfuls of vanilla. 

Heat the milk to boiling; pour in the gelatine and milk, 
amd stir until it is dissolved ; add the sugar to the beaten 
yolks and stir until smooth ; beat the chocolate into this. 



OtBTABDB, BLANC-MANGES, ETC. 433 

uid ponr in, spoonful by spoonful, the scalding milk upon 
the mixture, stirring all the while until all is in. Return 
to the inner saucepan and heat gently, stirring faithfully 
until it almost boils. Eemove from fire, turn into a bowl, 
nd whip in lightly and briskly the beaten whites with the 
aniUa. Set to form in moulds wet with cold water. 

( Chaklottk Russe^ ►{• 

i lb. of lady's-fingers. 

1 quart rich sweet cream. 
J cup powdered sugar 

2 teaspoonfuls vanilla or other extract. 

Split and trim the cakes, and fit neatly in the bottom 
and sides of two quart moulds. Whip the cream to a stiff 
froth in a syUabub-churn when you have sweetened and 
flavored it ; fill the moulds, lay cakes closely together on 
the top, and set upon the ice until needed. 

Or, 

You may use for this purpose a loaf of sponge-cake, cutting 
strips from it for the sides and leaving the crust for the bot- 
tom and top, each in one piece. 

A Tipsy Chahlotte. »J« 

1 large stale sponge-cake. 

1 pint rich sweet cream. 

1 cup sherry wine. 

\ oz. Cooper's gelatine, soaked in a cup of cold water two 

hours. 
1 teaspooaful vani]la or bitter almond extract. 
3 eggs, whites and yolks beaten together, but verf light 
1 pint mUk. 
1 Clip sugar. 



436 COMMON SENSE. 

Heat the cream almost to boiling; put in the soaked 
gelatine and half a cup of sugar, and stir until dissolved. 
Remove from the fire, flavor, and, when cool, beat or chum 
to a standing froth. Cut oif the top of the cake iu one 
piece, and scoop out the middle, leaving the sides and bottom 
three-quarters of an iuch thick. Over the inside of thesp 
pour the wine in spoonfuls, that all may be evenly moistened. 
Fill with the whipped cream, replace the top, which should 
also be moistened with wine and set iu a cold place until 
needed. 

Serve with it, or pour around it, a cxistard made of th« 
eggs, nulk, and the other half cup of sugar. 

Chocolate Chaslotte Kusse. 

^ oz. Cooper's gelatiue, soaked in a very little cold 
watpT. 

3 tablespoonfula grated chocolate rubbed smooth in a 

little milk. 
J cup powdered sugar. 

4 eggs. 

J lb. sponge-cake, 
1 teaspoonfiil vanilla. 
1 piat cream. 

Heat the cream to boiUng, slowly, stirring frequently ; 
add the sugar, chocolate, and gelatine, and, when these are 
dissolved, add, a spoonful at a time, to the beaten yolks. 
S'it back in the saucepan of boiling water, and stir five 
minutes, untU very hot, but do not let it boU. Take it ofl", 
flavor, and whip or chum to a standing froth, adding ths 
beatcin whites toward the last. Line a mould with sponge- 
taVOj fill witli the miiture, and set upon the ice. 



oustiedb, blano-manges, eiu 431 

Flummebt. 

2 oz. almonds — a few bitter among tliem. 

1 tablespoonful orange-flower or rose-water. 

1 pint cream. 

1 oz. Cooper's gelatine, soaked one hour in one cup cold 

water. 
1 cup milk. 
■J- " sugar. 

Blanch, the almonds, and, when cold, pound them to a 
paste in a Wedgewood mortar, adding orange-flower or rose- 
water to prevent oiling. Heat the milk to boiling, put in 
the gelatine, the sugar and almonds, and stir five minutes, 
or until they are thoroughly dissolved. Strain through 
thin muslin, pressing the cloth well. When cool, beat in 
the cream, a little at a time, with an egg-whip, or churn 
in a syUabiib-chum until thick and stiff. Wet your mould, 
put in the mixture, and let it stand seven or eight hours in 
a cold place. 

Gelatine Charlotte Kusse. ( Yery nwe.) 

1 pint of cream, whipped Ught. 
^ oz. gelatine, dissolved in 1 gill of hot milk. 
Whites of 2 eggs, beaten to a stiff froth. 
1 small tea-cup of powdered sugar. 
Flavor with bitter almond and vaniila. 

Miy the cream, eggs, and sugar ; flavor, and beat in the 
gelatine and milk last. It should be quite cold before i1 
is added. i 

Line a mould with slices of sponge-cake, or with lady's 
fingers, and fill with the mixture. 

Set upon the ice to cooL 



438 common ben8b. 

Whipped Syllabubs. 

1 pint of cream, rich and sweet. 

J cup sugar, powdered. 

1 glass of wine. 

Vanilla or other extract, 1 large teaspoonful. 

Sweeten the cream, and, when the sugar is thoroighlj 
dissolved, stir in the wiae carefuUy with the flavoring ez 
tract, and churn to a strong froth. 

Heap in glasses, and eat with cake. 

GOOSEBEKEY FoOL. 

1 quart of gooseberries, ripe. 

1 tablespoonful butter. 

1 cup of sugar. 

Yolks of four eggs. 

Meringue of whites, and 3 tablespoonfuls sugar. 

Stew the gooseberries in just water enough to cover 
cueui. When soft and broken, rub them through a sieve 
to remove the skins. While still hot beat in the butter, 
sugar, and the whipped yolks of the eggs. Pile in a glass 
aish, or in small glasses, and heap upon the top a meringue 
of the whipped whites and sugar. 

Gbeam M^bingues. 

4 eggs (the whites only), whipped stiff, -with 1 lb. pow- 
dered sugar. 
Lemon or vanilla flavoring. 

When very stiff, heap in the shape of half an egg upon 
«tiff letter-paper lining the 'bottom of your baking-pan. 
Have them half an inch apart. Do not shut the oven- 
door closely, but leave a space through which you can 
watoh them. When they are a light yellow-brown, takt 



CU8TA.ED8, BLANC-MA.VOES, KTO.' 439 

jhem out aud coo] quicklv. Slip a thin-bladed knife undei 
each ; scoop out the soft inside, and fill with cream wliippo** 
«s for Charlotte Russe. 

They are very fine. The oven should be very hot 

Calf's-Foot Jellt. 

4 calf's feet, cleaned carefully, 
4 quarts of water. 

1 pint of wine. 

3 cups of sugar — or sweeten to taste. 
Whites of 3 eggs, well beaten. 

2 teaspoonfuls of nutmeg. 

Juice of 1 lemon, and half the grated peel. 

Boil the calf's feet in the water until it is reduced one- 
naif; strain the liquor, and let it stand ten or twelve hours, 
eskim off every particle of the fat, aud remove the dregs 
melt slowly in a porcelain or bell-metal kettle, add the sea^ 
zoning, sugar, and the whipped whites of the eggs, and boil 
fiist about twelve minutes, skimming well. Strain through 
B, double flannel bag suspended between the four legs of an 
upturned high stool or backless chair, the bowl set beneath. 
Do not squeeze or shake it, tmtil the jelly ceases to run freely ; 
then slip out the bowl, and put under another, into which 
you may gently press what remains. The first will be the 
clearer jelly, although the second dripping will taste quite 
as well. Wet your moulds, put in the jelly, and set in 
a cool place. 

There are still some housekeepers who insist that the 
jellies made from the modern gelatine are not comparabls 
in beauty and flavor to those prepared from the genuine 
feet. Seeing means taste as well as beKef with them, and 
when they handle and behold the beloved feet, they kno'W 
wha,t they are about. Gelatine, they will darkly and dia 



440 ' COMMON SENSE 

guatfuUy assert., is tnado of horn-shavings and hoofs an^: th« 
like, and no more fit to be used for cooking purposes than 
BO much glue. 

Nevertheless, while gelatine is so clean, bright, and con' 
venient, housewives who fintl the days now but half a? 
long as did their mothers, despite labor-saving machines, 
will turn a deaf ear to thetie alarmists, and escape the 
tedious process above-described by using the valuable sub 
Btitute. ^ 

(WiNB Jelu.1»J« 
2 lbs. sugar. "^^""^ 

1 pint of wine — pale sherry or white. 
1 pint of cold water, 
1 package Coxe's gelatine. 
Juice of two lemons and grated peel of one 
1 quart of boUing water. 
1 good pinch of cinnamon. 

Soak the gelatine in the cold water one hour. Add to 
this the sugar, lemons, and cinnamon ; pour over all a quar» 
of boiling water, and stir until the gelatine is thoroughly 
dissolved. Put in the wiae, strain through a double flanne« 
bag, without squeezing, wet your moulds with cold watei, 
aad set the jelly away in them to cool. 

CiDEB Jelly. »J« 

Ulay be made by the" receipt just given, substituting a 
pint of clear, sweet cider for the wine. 

Fever jiatients may use cider jelly when wine is for 
bidden, and bhey will find this both refreshing and nutri 
tioaa. 



O0BTAED8, BLAJSrC-MAlTGES, EXa 44] 

Bird's Nest in Jelly. ^ 

I qaart of jelly, made according to either of the receiptt 
just given, but with a cup less of boiling water, that 
it may be very firm. 

3 cups of white blanc-mange. 

9 empty eggshells. 

Fresh rinds of two oranges. 

^ cup of sugar. 

Cut the rind from the oranges in long narrow strips, and 
Btew these gently in enough water to cover them until they 
are tender. Add to them half a cup of sugar, and simmer 
fifteen minutes longer in the syrup. Lay them out upon a 
dish to cool, taking care not to break them. If you have 
preserved orange-peel in the house, it wiU serve you the 
trouble of preparing this. 

The blanc-mange should be made the day before you want 
It, and the eggshells filled. The original contents, yolk and 
white, should be poured out through a hole, not larger than 
a half-dime, in the small end, and the interior washed with 
pure water, shaken around well in them. Then fill with 
blanc-mange and set in a pan of flour or sugar — the open end 
up — that they may not be jostled or overturned. 

Next morning fill a glass dish two-thirds full of the jelly, 
which should be very clear, reserving a large cupful. Break 
the shells from about the blanc-m<tnge, and lay the artificial 
eggs upon the jelly so soon as the latter is fijm enough to 
bear them. Pile them neatly, but not too high in the mid- 
dle bearing in mind that what is the top now will be the 
botU)m when the jelly is turned out. Lay the orange peel, 
which represents straw, over these and around them. Warm 
tho reserved jelly, so that it wiU flow readily, but do not 
get it hot ; pour over the straw and eggs, and set away ii 
19* 



442 COMMON SENSE. 

a cold jilace to form. When firm, turn out upon a glaai 
dish or salver. 

This pretty and fanciful dish is yet easily made. Tlie 
materials are so simple and inexpensive, aud the effect of the 
work, if deftly done, so pleasing, that I have no hesitation 
iu calling the attention even of novices to it. 

Wine Jell^ (boiled). 

1 box Ooxe's gelatine, soaked in 1 pint of cold water on* 
hour. 

1 quart of boiling water poured over this, and stirred 

until the gelatine is dissolved. 
1^ lb. white sugar. 

2 lemons — jjuice and peel. 

1 pint of wine. 

Put all over the fire, boil up once well, and strain through 
•I double flannel bag into moulds. 

\Okangb Jelly^ 

2 oranges — juice of both and grated rind of one. 
1 lemon — juice and peel. 

1 package Coxe's gelatine, soaked in a very little water, 

one hour. 
1 pint boiling water. 
1^ cup sugar, and 1 small cup of wine. 
1 good pinch of cinnamon. 

Squeeze the juice of the fruit into a bowl, and put with 
(hem the grated peel and the cinnamon. Pour over them 
the boiling water, cover closely, and let them stand half an 
bour. Strain, add the sugar, let it come to a boil, stir in 
tht) gelatine, and, when this is well dissolved, take tlio sauce- 
pan from the fire. Strain through a double flannel l)a2 iute 
moalds. 



lOE-OKEAM AKD OTHElt ICE8. 44S 

Vameqated Jelly. »J« 

1 quart of clear jelly. 

} teaspoonful prepared cochineal or red currant juice, 

1 cup white blanc-mange. 

Divide the jelly into two equal portions, and color one 
with a very little prepared cochineal, leaving the other as it 
is, of a pale amber. Wet a mould with cold water and pour 
in a little of the latter. Set the mould in the ice, that the 
jelly may harden quickly, and so soon as it is firm pour in 
carefully some of the red. Set back upon the ice to get 
ready for the amber, adding the two colors in this order 
until you are ready for the base, which should be wider 
Kflan the other stripes, and consist of the white blanc-mange. 
Keep both jelly and blanc-mange near the fire until you have 
filled the mould — I mean, of course, that intended for the 
latest layers. Let all get very firm before you turn it out. 

You may vary two moulds of this jelly by having the 
blanc-mange base of one colored with chocolate, a narrow 
vhite stripe above relieving the grave effecb of the brown. 

Ice-cream and other Ices. 

If you wish to prepare ice-cream at an hour's notice, you 
cannot do better than to purchase the best patent freezer 
you can procure. I had one once which would freeze cream 
admirably in half an hour. I have forgotten the patentee's 
Dame, and perhaps this is well for him, since trutli would 
oblige me to record an unlucky habit his machine had of 
(jetting out of order just when I wanted it to do its best. 
My earliest recollections of ice-cream are of the discordant 
grinding of the well-worn freezer among the blocks of ice 
packed about it — a monotone of misery, that, had it been 
onrelieved by agi-eeable associations of the good to which H 



444 COMMON SENSE. 

was "leading up," would not have been toleiated out of 
Bedlam. For one, two, tkree, sometimes four hours, it went 
on without otlier vai'iety than the harsher sounds of the fresli 
ice and the rattling " swash " as the freezer plunged amid 
the icj brine when these were nearly melted ; without ces- 
sation save when the unhappy operator nodded over hia 
work, or was relieved by another predestined victim of lux- 
ury and ennui — a battalion of the laziest juveniles upon the 
place being detailed for this purpose. I verily believed in 
those days that the freezing could not be facilitated by 
energetic action, and used to think how fortunate it was 
that small darkeys had a predilection for this drowsy em- 
ployment. I shall never forget my amazement at seeing a 
brisk Yankee housewife lay hold of the handle of the pon- 
derous tin cylinder, and whirl it with such wiU and celerity, 
back and forth, back and forth, that the desired end came 
to pass in three-quarters of an hour. 

That day has gone by. Time has grown too precious 
now even to juvenile contrabands for them to sit half the 
day shaking a freezer under the locust-trees on the old 
plantation lawn. Machines that will do the work in one- 
tenth of the time, with one-fiftieth of the labor, are sold 
lit every corner. But, so far as I know, it was reserved for 
a nice old lady up in the " Jersey " mountains — the tidiest, 
thriftiest, most cheerful bee I ever knew — to show her neigh- 
bors and acquaintances that ice-cream could be made to 
freeze itself. For five or six years I have practised her 
method, with such thankfulness to her, and such satisfaction 
tc my guests and family, that I eagerly embrace the op 
portunity of circulating the good news. 

Se-lf-fbee^ino Ice-obeam. •{• 

1 quart rich milk. 

8 eggs — whites and yolks beaten separately and very lighit 



lOB-CEEAM AOT) OTHEE ICES. 446 

4 cups sugar. 

3 pints rich sweet cream. 

6 teaspoonfuls vanilla or other seasoning, or 1 Tanill* 

bean, broken in two, boiled in the custard, and lef*. 

in until it is cold. 

Heat the milk almost to boUing, beat the yolks light, 
odd the sugar, and stir up well. Pour the hot mUk to this, 
little by little, beating all the while ; put in the frothed 
whites, and return to the fire — ^boiling in a pail or sauce- 
pan set within one of hot water. Stir the mixture steadily 
about fifteen minutes, or until it is thick as boiled custard. 
Pour into a bowl and set aside to cool. When quite cold, 
beat in the cream, and the flavoring, unless you have used 
the bean. 

Have ready a quantity of ice, cracked in pieces not larger 
than a pigeon egg — the smaller the better. You can manage 
this easily by laying a great lump of ice between two folds 
of coarse sacking or an old carpet, tucking it in snugly, 
and battering it, through the cloth, with a sledge-hammer or 
mallet until fine enough. There is no waste of ice, nor 
need you take it in your hands at all — only gather up the 
comers of the carpet or cloth, and slide as much as you 
want into the outer vessel. Use an ordinary old-fashioned 
upright freezer, set in a deep pail ; pack around it closely, 
first, a layer of pounded ice, then one of rock salt — common 
tali wUl not do. In this order fill the pail ; but before cov- 
ering the freezer-lid, remove it carefully that none of the salt 
may get in, and, with a long wooden ladle or flat stick (I had 
one made on purpose), beat the custard as you would batter, 
for five minutes, without stay or stint. Replace the lid, pack 
the ice and salt upon it, patting it dojjfn hard on top ; cover 
ikU with several folds of blanket or d^rpet, and lea re it tot 
•ne Lour. Then remove the cover of the freezer whea 



146 



COMMON SENSE. 



you liave -wiped it carefviUy outside. You will iir.d wiUiin i 
thick coating of frozen custard upon the bottom and sides 
Dislodge this with your ladle, which should be thin at the 
lower end, or witli a long carving-knife, working everj 
l)artiole of it clear. Beat again hard and long until the 
cusfcarl is a smooth, half-congealed paste. The smoothneae 
of the ice-cream depends upon your action at this juncture. 
Put on the cover, pack in more ice and salt, and turn off the 
brine. Spread the double carpet over all once more, having 
buried the freezer out of sight in ice, and leave it for three 
or four hours. Then, if the water has accumulated in such 
iTjuantity as to buoy up the freezer, pour it -off, fiU up with 
ice and salt, but do not open the freezer. In two hours 
iiaore you may take it from the ice, open it, wrap a towel, 
■•itTung out in boiling water, about the lower part, and turn 
i»at a solid column of cream, firm, close-grained, and smooth 
Its velvet to the tongue. 

Should the ice melt very fast, you may have to txim off 
the water more than twice; but this will seldom happen 
except in very hot weather. You need not devote fifteen 
minutes in all to the business after the custard is made. 
Tou may go into the cellar before breakfast, having made 
the custard overnight, stir in the eold cream and flavoring, 
get it into the freezer aind comfortably packed down before 
John is through shaving, and by choosing the times for 
your stolen visits to the lower regions, surprise him and 
the children at a one-o'clock dinner by the most delicious 
dessert in the world. I have often laughed in my sleeve at 
seeing mi/ John walk through the cellar in search of some 
mislaid basket or box, whistling carelessly, without a sus- 
picion that his favorite delicacy was coolly working out its 
own solidification under the inverted barrel on which I 
clianced to ^be leaning at his entrance. 

Any of the following receipts for custard ice-creanj maj 



ICECEEAM AOTJ OTHER ICES. 441 

be fro^sn ia like manner. Do not spare salt, and bo sure 
Toiir j'-.e is finely cracked, and after the second beating do 
not let the air again into the freezer. If you canjiot get dry 
rock salt, that which settles at the bottom of fish-barrels 
will do as well. Keep the freezer hidden, from first to last 
hy the ice heaped over it, except when you have to lift the 
Ud on the occasions I have specified. 

(Chocolate Ice-cream.] ►{« 

1 quart of cream. 

1 pint new milk. 

2 cups sugar. 

2 eggs beaten very light. 

5 tablespoonfuls chocolate rubbed smooth in a little mUk, 

Heat the milk almost to boiling, and pour, by degrees, 
In with the beaten egg and sugar. Stir in the chocolate, 
oeat well three minutes, and return to the inner kettle. 
ileat until it thickens well, stirring constantly; take from 
tlie fire and set aside to cool. Many think a little vanilla 
■n improvement. When the custard is cold, beat in the 
cream. Freeze. 

Almond Ice-cream. 

3 oz. sweet almonds and 1 oz. of bitter, blanched, and, 

when cold, pounded to a paste, a few at a time, 
in a Wedge wood mortar, adding 

2 tablespoonfuls of rosewater to prevent oiling. 

3 pints cream — fresh and sweet. 
Nearly 2 cups of sugar. 

1 tftblespoonful of arrowroot, wet up with cold milk. 

Heat one pint cream almost to boiling, add the sugai 
Vid when this is melted, the almonds. Simmer .en minutes, 
ttirring often, remove from the fire, and let all stand to 



448 COMMDN 8ENSB, 

gether ten mimite/s longer in a covered vessel. Strain oul 
the cream, pressing the bag hard to get the full flavor o{ 
the almonds, return to the inner saucepan and stir in th» 
arrowroot until the cream thickens — say five minutes, 
When cold, beat very light with an egg-whip, adding grad- 
ually the rest of the cream. It should be light in half an 
hour. Then freeze. 

If you wish to mould your creams in fancy shapes, open 
your freezer two hours after the second stirring and trans- 
fer the cream to a tight mould, having given it a third 
vigorous beating. Pack this down in ice and salt, and let 
it stand two hours longer than you would have done had 
it remained in the freezer. 



( Coffee Ice-cream. 

3 pints of cream. 

1 cup black coflFee — very strong and clear. 

2 cups sugar. 

2 tablespoonfuls arrowroot, wet up with cold milk. 

Heat half the cream nearly to boHtng, stir in the sugar 
and, when this is melted, the coffee; then the arrowroot. 
Boil all together five minutes, stirring constantly. When 
cold, beat up very light, whipping in the rest of the cream 
by degrees. Then freeze. 

I cannot say certainly that this can be frozen without 
turning, although I see no reason why it should not, sine* 
the arrowroot gives it the consistency of custard. 

^TALIAN CbEAM, 

2 pints of creaio. 

2 cups of sugar. 

2 lemons — juice and grated peeL 

2 tablespoonfulB of brandy. 



ICK-CEEAM AWa OTHEE ICES. 449 

Sweeten the cream and beat in the lemons gradually^ 
rot to curdle it; add the brandy and freeze in a patent 
freezer, or by tiu-ning quickly. In ttu-ning the freezer, open 
twice during the operation, to stir and beat the couteuti 
smooth. 

Lemon Ice-ckeam. »{« 

1 quart of cream. 

2 lemons — the juice of one and the grated peel of on* 

and-a-half. 
2 cups of sugar. 

Sweeten the cream, beat the lemon gradually into it, 
and put at once into the freezer. Freeze rapidly in a 
patent freezer, or the acid is apt to turn the milk. 

You may make orange ice-cream in the same way. 

( Pine-apple Ice-cream."^ 4" 

1 quart of cream. 

1 large ripe pine-apple. 

1 lb. powdered sugar. 

Slice the pine-apple thin, and scatter the sugar between 
the slices. Cover it, and let the fruit steep three hour? 
Then cut, or chop it up in the syrup, and strain it through 
a hair sieve or bag of double coarse lace. Beat gradually 
into the cream, and freeze as rapidly as possible. 

You may, if you like, reserve a few pieces of pine-apple, 
unsugared, cut into square bits, and stir them through the 
cr«am when half frozen. 

Peach Ice-cream •Ja 

Is very nice made after the preceding receipt, w'th two oi 
Shree handfuls of freshlj cut bits of the fruit sfci'red a 
when the cream is half frozen. 



450 



COMMON BEHBB. 



IUbI 'BERRY OE STRAWBERRY ICE-CRE^Jkl. ^J* 

1 quart ripe sweet berries. 

1 lb, sugar. 

1 quart fresh cream. 

Scatter half the sugar over the berries and let tliets 
Btaad three hours. Press and mash them, and strain them 
through a thin muslin bag. Add the rest of the sugar, 
and when dissolved beat in the cream little by httlo. 
Freeze rapidly, opening the freezer (if it is not a pateni 
one) several times to beat and stir. 

Or, 

You may have a pint of whole berries, unsugared, ready 
«o stir in when the cream is frozen to the consistency of 
«iff mush. In this case add a cup more sugar to the 
4uart of crushed berries. 

Frozen Custard with the Fruit ;Frozen in. »J« 

1 quart milk. 
1 quart cream. 

6 eggs, and 3 cups of sugar beaten up with the yolks. 
1 pint fresh peaches, cut up small, or fresh ripe ber- 
ries. 

Heat the quart of milk almost to boiling, and add 
gradually to the beaten yolks and sugar. "Whip in the 
frothed whites, return to the custard-kettle, and stir until 
it is a thick, soft custard. Let it get perfectly cold, beat iu 
iiie cream and freeze. If you let it freeze itself, stir in the 
ftuit after the second beating ; if you turn the freezer, when 
tihe custard is like osngealed mush. 



ICE-CKEAM AHD OTHBE 10E8. 451 

TuTTi Frutti Ice-ckeam. •{< 

1 pint of milk. 
1 quart of cream. 

Yolks of 5 eggs — ^beaten liglit with the sugar. 
3 cvips of sugar. 
1 lemon — juice and grated peel. 
1 glass of pale sherry, and ^ lb. crystallized fruiti^ 
chopped. 

Heat the milTr almost to boiling ; poiir by degrees over 
tl e eggs and sugar, beating all together well. Return to 
the fire, and boil ten minutes, or until set into a good cus- 
tard. When cold, beat in the cream, and half freeze befora 
you stir in half a pound of crystallized fruit — peaches, 
apricots, cherries, limes, etc., chopped very fine. Beat in 
with these the lemon and wine ; cover again, and freeze 
hard. 

In all fruit ice-creams the beating of the custard should 
be very hard and thorough, if you would have them smooth. 

Lemon Ice. »{« 

6 lemons — juice of all, and grated peel of three. 
1 large sweet orange — juice and rind. 
1 pint of water. 
1 " of sugar. 

Squeeze out every drop of juice, and steep in it the rind 
of orange and lemons one hour. Strain, squeezing the 
bag dry ; mix in the sugar, and then the water. Stir until 
dissolved, and freeze by turning in a freezer — opemng three 
times to beat all up together. 



a62 common senbb. 

VObangb IceJ^ 

6 oranges — juice of all, and grated peel of chree 

2 lemons — ^the juice only. 

1 pint of sugar dissolved in 1 pint of water. 

Prepare and freeze as you would lemon ice. , 



xPiNEAPPLE Icr) 



1 juicy ripe pineapple — peeled and cut smalL 

Juice and grated peel of 1 lemon. 

1 pint of sugar. 

1 " water, or a little less. 

Strew the siigar over the pineapple and let it B««tnd an 
hour. Mash all up together, and strain out the synif 
through a hair-sieve. Add the water and freeze. 

[ Cherbi Ice. ) 

1 quart cherries, with half tiie stones pounded in t 

Wedgewood mortar. 

2 lemons — the juice only. 

1 pint of water, in which dissolve 1 pint of sugar. 
1 glass of fine brandy. 

Squeeze out the bruised cherries and stones, in a bag 
over the sugar; add the water, then the brandy, and 
freeze. 

It will reqtiire a longer time to freeze than other ices, 
Dn account of the brandy. 

Currant and Kaspberby Ice (J'^jm). 

I quart red currants. 

1 pint raspberries — ^red or white. 



BIPE FKTJIT FOE DESSEET. 158 

1 pinf of water. 
IJ " of sugar. 

S(ineez8 out the juice; mix in tte sugar and water, and 

STRA.WBEBIIY OR EaSPBEERY IcB, 

1 quart berries. Extract the juice and strain. 
1 pint sugar — dissolved in the juice. 
1 lemon — juice only. 
■J pint of water. 



RIPE FRUIT FOR DESSERT. 

Oranges 

May be put on whole Lq fruit-baskets, or the skin be 
cut in eitjhths half way down, separated from the fruit and 
curled inward, showing half the orange white, the other 
yellow. Or, pass a sharp knife lightly around the fruit, 
midway between the stem and blossom end, cutting through 
the rind only. Slip the smooth curved handle of a tea- 
spoon carefully between the peel and body of the orange, 
and gently work it all around until both upper and lower 
halves are free, except at stem and blossom. Turn the 
rind, without tearing it, inside out, making a white cup at 
either end — the round white fruit between them. 

Salade d'Orange. 

Pare and slice large sweet oranges ; sprinkle powdered 
vngar thickly over each slice, and pour a couple of glasses 
of wine on the top. Sprinkle powdered sugar over all, 
and serve at once, or the fruit wiU lose its freshness. 

You may omit the wine if you Uke. 

Do not let any fruit intended to be eaten fresh for dea 



4^"* COMMON BEN8B. 

Bert lie in the sugar longer tliaii is absolutely necessaij 
It extracts the flavor and withers the pulp. 

Ajubkosia. 

8 fine sweet oranges, peeled and sliced. 
1^ grated oocoanut. 
i cup powdered sugar. 

Arrange the orange in a glass dish, scatter the gi-ated 
cocoanut thickly over it, sprinkle this lightly with sugar, 
and cover n^ith another layer of orange. FiU up the dish 
in this order, having cocoanut and sugar for the top layer. 
Serve at once. 

Apples. 

Wash and polish with a clean towel, and pile ia a china 
fruit-basket, with an eye to agreeable variety of color. 

Peaches and Pears. 

Pick out the finest, handliug as little as may be, and 
pile upon a salver or flat dish, with bits of ice between 
them, and ornament with peach leaves or fennel sprigs. 

One of the prettiest dishes of fruit I ever saw upon a 
dessert-table was an oppn silver basket, wide at the top, 
heaped with rich red peaches and yellow Bartlett pears, 
interspersed with feathery bunches of green, which few of 
those who admired it knew for carrot-tops. Wild white 
clematis wreathe! the handle and showed here and there 
among the fruit, while scarlet and white verbenas nestled 
jimid the green. 

Send around powdered sugar with the fruit, as many 
like to dip peaches and pears in it ifter paring and quw 
tering them. 



BIPK FEUIT FOE DESSEEf. iSH 

StBAWBERKIES, RiSPBEllEIES, AND BLACKBERRIES, 

Never wash strawberries or raspberries that are intended 
to be eaten as fresh friiit. If they are so gritty as to require 
this process, keep them ofl' the table. You will certainly 
ruiu the flavor beyond repair if you wash them, and as cer- 
iftUL.y induce instant fermentation and endanger the coats 
of the eaters' stomachs, if, after profanLag the exquisite deli- 
cacy of the fruit to this extent, you complete the evil work 
by covering them with sugar, and leaving them to leak their 
lives soui-ly away for one or two houi's. 

Put them on fhe table in glass dishes, piling them high 
and lightly, send around powdered sugar with them and 
cream, that the guests may help themselves. It is not eco- 
nomical perhaps, but it is a healthful and pleasant stylu of 
serving them — I had almost said the only decent one. 

" But I don't know who picked them ! " cries Mrs. 
Fussy, 

No, my dear madam ! nor do you know who makes the 
baker's bread, or confectioner's cakes, creams, jellies, salads, 
etc. Nor, for that matter, how the flour is manufactured 
out of which you conjure your dainty biscuit and pies. I 
was so foolish as to go into a flour-mill once, and having 
Been a burly negro, naked to the waist, with his trousers 
rolled up to his knees, stand in a bank of "fino family 
flour," a foot deep in the lowest part, on a July day, shovel- 
Hug it into barrels for the market, I rushed into the outer 
sir a sicker and a wiser woman. 

1 know God made strawberries. " Doubtless," Siiys 
Bishop Butler, " He could have made a better berry, but 
He never did ! " The picker's light touch cannot mar flavor 
or beauty, nor, W3re her fingers filthy as a chimney-sweep's, 
could the delicate fruit sufier from them as from your Dar- 
bnrouB baptisio. Yon would like to know who picked them. 



456 CXJMM<JN BBNSB. 

[ should inquire instead, " Who washed them, and ii. what ? * 
f recollect seeing a housekeeper, who was afflicted with 
jour inquiring turn of mind, wash strawberries in a wash 
baud basin I 

CUREANTS AND RaSPBEBRIES. 

Pick the currants from the stems, and mix with an equa 
quantity of raspberries. Put into a glass bowl, and eat with 
powdered sugar. 

Frosted Currants. 

Pick fine even bunches, and dip them, one at a time, into 
« mixture of frothed white of egg, and a very little cold 
'vater. Drain them until nearly dry, and roU in pulverized 
dugar. Hepeat the dip in the sugar once or twice, and lay 
vhem upon white paper to diy. They make a beautifid 
^rnish for jellies or charlottes, and look well heaped in a 
dish by themselves or with other fruit. 

Plums and grapes are very nice irosted in the sam« 
way. 

* 

I 

PRESERVES AND ERTJIT JELLIES. 

Use none but porcelain, or good bell-metal kettles for 
preserves and jellies K the latter, clean thoroughly just 
before you put in the syrup or fruit. Scour with sand, 
then set it over the fire, with a cupful of vinegar and a large 
handful of salt in it. Let this come to a boil, and scour the 
whole of the inside of the kettle with it. Do not let your 
pr-'.serves or anything else stand one moment in it after it 
k withdrawn from the fire; fill the emptied kettle instantly 
with water and wash it perfectly clean, although you maj 
mean to return the syrup to it again in five minutes. By 
observing these precautions, preserves an I pickles made in 



FBEBKBTES Am) FBUIT JKLLISS. 457 

bell-metal may be rendered as good and wholesome as if 
the frailer porcelain be used. ^ 

Use only fine sugar for nice preserves. Moist or jiark 
sugar cannot be made to produce the same effect as dry 
white. 

Do not huriy any needful step in the process of preserv- 
Jfig. Prepare your fruit with care, weigh accurately, and 
allDW time enough to do your work well. Put up the pi-e- 
serves in small jars in preference to large, and, when once 
made, keep them in a cool, dark closet that is perfectly 
dry. Keep jellies in small stone china jars, or glass tum- 
blers closely covered. You can procure at most china and 
glass stores, or house-furnishing establishments, metal 
covers with elastic rims for these, which can be used from 
year to year. 

Cover jellies and jams with tissue paper, double and 
wee with brandy, pressed closely to the conserve before you 
put on the lid, or paste on the thick paper. Examine your 
shelves frequently and narrowly for a few weeks to see if 
your preserves are keeping well. If there is the least sign 
of fermentation, boil them over, adding more sugar. 

If jellies are not so firm after six or eight hours as you 
would have them, set them in the sun, with bits of window 
glass over them to keep out the dust and insects. Remove 
these at night and wipe off the moisture collected on the 
under side. Repeat this every day until the jelly shrinks 
into firmness, filling up one cup from another as need re- 
quires. This method is far preferable to boiling down, 
which both injures the flavor and darkens the jelly. 

Preserved Peaches. 4« 

Weigh the fruit after it is pared and the stones ex- 
tracted, and allow a pound of sugar to every one of peaches, 
i/rack one quarter of the stones, extract the kernels, break 
20 



i&» 



C»MMON SENSE, 



them to pieces and boil in just enough water to cover Iheni, 
until soft, when set aside to steep in a covered vessel. Put 
a lajer of sugar at the bottom of the kettle, then one of 
fi-uitj and so on until you have used up all of both ; set it 
where it will warm slowly until the sugar is melted and the 
fruit hot through. Then strain the kernel-water and add 
it. Boil steadily until the peaches are tender and clear. 
Take them out with a perforated skimmer and lay upon 
large fat dishes, crowding as little as possible. Boil the 
Bjiup almost to a jelly— that is, until clear and thick, skim- 
ming off all the scum. Fill your jars two-thirds full of the 
peaches, pour on the boiling syrup, and, when cold, covei 
with brandy tissue-paper, then with cloth, lastly with thick 
paper tied tightly over them. 

The peaches should be ready to take off after half an 
hour's boiling; the syrup be boiled fifteen minutes longer, 
fast, and often stirred, to throw up the scum. A few slicea 
of pineapple cut up with the peaches flavor them finely. 

Preserved Peaks 

Are put up precisely as are peaches, but are only pared, not 
divided. Leave the stems on. 

Peach Majimalade. tj* 

Pare, stone, and weigh the fruit ; heat slowly to draw 
out the juice, stirring up often from the bottom with a 
wooden spoon. After it is hot, boil quickly, still stirring, 
three quarters of an hour. Add, then, the sugar, allowing 
three quarters of a pound to each pound of the fruit. Boi] 
np well for five minutes, taking off every particle of scum. 
Add the juice of a lemon for every three pounds of fruit, 
and the water in which one-fourth of the kernels have been 
boiled and steeped. Stew all together ten minutes, stirring 



P14KBKEVEB ASD FEUIT JELLIES. 459 

to a Bmoctb paste, and take frcm the fire. Put up hot in 
air-tight cans, or, -when cold, in small stone or glass jara, 
with brandied tissue-paper fitted neatly to the surface of the 
marmalade. 

A large, ripe pineapple, pared and cut up fine, and stir- 
I'ed with the peaches, is a fine addition to the flavor. 

Presebved Quinces. ►{• 

Choose fine yellow quinces. Pare, quarter, and core 
them, saving both skins and cores. Put the quinces over 
the fire with just enough ■water to cover them, and sinuner 
until they are soft, but not until they begin to break. Take 
them out carefully, and spread them upon broad dishes to 
cool. Add the parings, seed, and cores, to the water in 
which the quinces were boiled, and stew, closely covered, 
for an hour. Strain through a jelly-bag, and to every pint 
of this liquor allow a pound of sugar. Boil up and skim it, 
put in the fruit and boil fifteen minutes. Take all from the 
fire and pour into a large deep pan. Cover closely and let 
it stand twenty-four hours. Drain off the syrup and let it 
come to a boil ; put in the quinces carefully and boil another 
quarter of an hour. Take them up as dry as possible, and 
again spread out upon dishes, setting these in the hottest 
sunshine you can find. Boil the syrup until it begins to 
jelly ; fill the jars two-thirds full and cover with the syrup. 
The preserves should be of a fine red. Cover with brandied 
tissue-paper. 

Peeserved Apples. 

Firm, weU-flavored pippins or bell-flower apples make 
an excellent preserve, prepared in the same manner aa 
quinces. A few quinces cut up among them, or the juice 
of two lemons to every three pounds of ft'iit unpruvoi 
them. 



460 UOMMOK SlJlNSI). 

Quince MasmaiiAde. tj* 

Fare, core, and slice the quinces, stewiag the skint, eorea^ 
■nd seed in a vessel by themselves, ■with just enough watei 
to cover them. When this has simmered long enough to 
extract all the flavor, and the parings are broken to pieces, 
Btrain off the water through a thick cloth. Put the quince* 
into the preserve-kettle ■when this ■water is almost cold, poui 
it over them and boil, stirring and mashing the fruit ■with 
a ■wooden spoon as it becomes soft. The juice of t^wo 
oranges to every three pounds of the fruit imparts an agree- 
able flavor. When you have reduced all to a smooth paste, 
stir in a scant three-quarters of a pound of sugar for every 
pound of fruit; boU ten minutes more, stirring constantly. 
Take off, and ■when cool put into small jars, ■with brandied 
papers over them. 

Quince Cheese 

Is marmalade boiled do-wn very tkick, packed into small 
pots. It wUl turn out firm as cheese, and can be cut in 
slices for luncheon or tea. 

Apple Butter. 

This is generally made by the large quantity. 

Boil do-wn a kettlefiil of cider to t^wo-thirds the origi- 
nal quantity. Pare, core, and slice juicy apples, and put as 
many into the cider as it wiU cover. BoU slowly, stirring 
often ■with a flat stick, and when the apples are tender to 
breaking, take them out with a perforated skimmer, drain- 
ing well against the sides of the kettle. Put in a second 
supply of apples and stew them soft, as many as the cider 
win hold, Take from the fire, pour all together into a tub 
01 large crock ; cover and let it stand twelve hours. Then 
return to the kettle and boil down, stirring Ul the whila 



PBESEBVEB AHD FETJIT JELLIKS. 461 

nntil it is the conaisteacy of soft soap, and bro-wn in color 
You may spice to taste if you please. 

Keep in stone jars in a dry, cool place. It should keep 
all winter. 

Preserved Crab-appi;es. »J< 

The red Siberian crab is best for this purpose. Pick 
out those that are nearly perfect, leaning the stems on, and put 
into a preserve-kettle, ■with enough warm water to coveir 
them. Heat this to boiling, slowly, and simmer \intil the 
skins break. Drain and skin them ; then, with a penknife, 
extract the cores through the blossom ends. Weigh them ; 
allow a pound and a quarter of sugar and a teacupful of 
water to every pound of fruit. Boil the water and sugar 
together until the scum ceases to rise ; put in the fruit, cover 
the kettle, and simmer until the apples are a clear red, and 
tender. Take out with a skimmer ; spread upon dishes 
to cool and harden ; add to the syrup the juice of one lemon 
to three pounds of fruit, and boil until clear and rich. Fill 
your jars three-quarters fuU of the apples, pour the syrup 
in, and, when cool, tie up. 

Preserved G-reen-oages asd Large Purple Plums. ►}» 

Weigh the finiit and scald in boiling water to make 
bhe skins come off easily. Let them stand in a large bowl 
an hour after they are peeled, that the juice may exude. 
Drain this off; lay the plums in the kettle, alternately 
with layers of sugar, allowing pound for pound ; pour the 
juice over the top and heat slowly to a boil. Take out the 
plums at this point, very carefully, with a perforated skim- 
mer, draining them well through it, and spread upon broad 
dishes in the sun. Boil the syrup until thick and clear, 
Bkimming it faithfully. Return the plums to this, and boil 
ten minutes. Spread out again until cool and firm ; keep 



462 COMMON SENSE. 

ing the syrup hot on the fire, fill yotir jars three quarten 
full with the fruit ; pour on the scalding syrup, cover to 
keep in the heat, and, when cold, tie up. 

Or, 

If you do not care to take the trouble of peeling the 
■fruit, prick it in several places with a needle, and proceed 
as directed. 

Unique Preserves. 

Gather young cucumbers, a little longer than youi 
middle finger, and lay in strong brine one week. 
Wash them and soak a day and a night in fair water, 
changing this four times. Line a beU-metal kettle with 
vine-leaves, lay in the cucumbers, with a little alum scat- 
tered among them ; fill up with clear water ; cover with 
vine-leaves, then with a close lid, and green as for pickles. 
Do not let them boil. When well greened, drop lq ice- 
water. When perfectly cold, wipe, and with a small knife 
sKt down one side ; dig out the seeds ; stuffVith a mixture 
of chopped raisins and citron ; sew up the incision with 
fine thread. Weigh them, and make a syrup, allowing a 
pound of sugar for every one of cucumbers, with a pint 
of water. Heat to a lively boH, skim, and drop in the 
fruit. Simmer half an hour, take out and spread upon 
a dish in the sun while you boil down the syrup, with a 
few slices of ginger-root added. When thick, put in the 
cucumbers again ; simmer five minutes and put up in glass 
jars ; tying them up when cold. 

An odd, but also a singularly delicious swsetmeat. 

Dausons 

Are put up in the same manner as plums, but pricked. 
instead of skinned 



PRK8ERVE8 ANII FEUIT JEr.r.lTCB. 463 

Preserved Oeauge Peel. ( Very nice,) 

Weigh the oranges whole, and allow pound for poiind 
Peel the oranges neatly and cut the rind into narrow shruda 
Boil untU tender, changing the water twice, and replenislv 
ing with hot from the kettle. Squeeze the strained juice 
of the oranges over the sugar ; let this heat to a boil ; pul 
in the shreds and boil twenty minutes. 

Lemon peel can be preserved in the same way, allowing 
more sugar. 

Okauge Marmalade. 

Allow pound for pound. Pare half the oranges and cut 
the rind into slu-eds. Boil in three waters until tender, 
and set aside. Grate the rind of the remaining oranges ; 
take off and tlirow away every bit of the thick white inner 
skin ; quarter all the oranges and take out the seeds. 
Chop, or cut them into small pieces ; drain all the juice 
that will come»away, without pressing them, over the sugar ; 
heat this, stii'ring until the sugar is dissolved, adding a very 
little water, unless the oranges are very juicy. Boil and 
Bkim five or six minutes ; put in the boiled shreds, and 
cook ten minutes ; then the chopped fr' uit and grated peel, 
and boil twenty minutes longer. When cold, put into small 
jars, tied up with bladder or with paper next the fruit, 
cloths dipped in wax over aU. A nicer way still is to put 
away in tumblers with self-adjusting metal tops. Presa 
braudied tissue-paper down closely to the fruit. 

Lemon Marmalade. 

In made as you would prepare orange — allowing a pounj 
■nd a quarter of sugar to a pound of the fruit, and using 
but half the grated peeL 



164 



COMMON 8EI9:SB. 



(_Preserved PiiteappleJ t^ 

Pare, cut into slices, take out the core of each one, and 
weigh, allowing pound for pound of sugar and fruit. Tu* 
in alternate layers in the kettle and pour In water, allowing 
a teacupful to each pound of sugar. Heat to a boil ; take 
out the pineapple and spread upon dishes in the sud. 
Boil and skim the syrup half an hour. Return the pine- 
apple to the kettle and boil fifteen minutes. Take it out 
pack in wide-mouthed jars, pour on the scalding syrup ; 
cover to keep in the heat, and, when cold, tie up, first put- 
ting brandied tissue-paper upon the top. 

Pineapple Mabsialade. 

Pare, slice, core, and weigh the pineapple ; then cut 
into small bits. Make a syrup of a teacup of water to two 
pounds of sugar; melt, and heat to a boil. Heat the 
chopped pineapple in a vessel set within one of boiling 
water, covering it cl )sely to keep in the flavor. When it 
is smoking hot all through, and begins to look clear, add 
to the syrup. Boil together haK an hour, stirring all the 
while, or until it is a. clear, bright paste. 

Preserved Citron or Water-melon Rind. 

Pare off the green skin, and the soft, white, inner 
rind. Cut into strips or into fanciful shapes. Allow a 
pouni and a quarter of sugar to each pound of ruuL 
Line your kettle with vine-leaves and fill with the rind, 
scattering a little pulverized alum over each layer. Cove» 
with vine-leaves, three thick ; pour on water enough to reacb 
Hid wet these, and lay a close Hd on the top of the kettle 
Let aU steam together for three hours ; but the watei 
must not actually boil. Take out your rind, which 



rKESEEVES AND FKtTIT JELLIEB. 46E 

■hoiild be well greened by this process, and throw at once 
into vory cold water. It should lie in soak, changing th« 
water every hour, for four hours. 

For the syrup, allow two cups of water to a pound and 
A quarter of sugar. Boil, and skim it until no more scuir 
somes up ; put in the rind, and simmer gently nearly an 
hour. Take it out, and spread upon dishes in the sur 
nntil firm and almost cool. Simmer in the sjrrup for half 
an hour ; spread out again, and, when firm, put into a large 
bovl, and pour over it the scalding syrup. 

Twelve hours later put the syrup again over the fii'c, 
adding the juice of a lemon and a tiny strip of ginger-root 
for every pound of rind. BoU down until thick ; pack the 
rind ia jars and pour over it the syrup. Tie up when 
cool. 

A very handsome sweetmeat, although rather insipid in 
flavor. The reader can judge whether, as the charity boy 
said of the alphabet, and the senior Weller of mati-imony, 
it is worth while to go through so much and get so little. 

Preserved Ginger. »!« 

Pare the roots of green ginger and lay in cold water fif- 
teen minutes. Boil in three waters, changing the hot for 
cold every time, until very tender ; drain, and lay in ice- 
water. For the syrup, allow a pound and a quarter of 
sugar for every pound of ginger, and a cupful of water for 
each pound of sugar. Boil, and skim untU the scum ceases 
to rise. When the syrup is coldj wipe the ginger dry and 
drop it in. Let it stand twenty-four hours. Drain off and 
reheat the syrup. This time put the ginger in when blood 
warm. Do not look at it again for two days. Then reboil 
the syrup, and pour over the ginger scalding hot. In a 
urcek drain off once more, boil, and add again while hot tr 
20* 



466 



COMMON SENSE. 



the ginger; co^ei closely. It will be fit for use in a firt 
night. 

Pbeserved Cherbies. ►J* 

Stone the cherries, preserving every drop of juicp, 
Weigh the fruit, allowing pound for pound of sugar. PuJ 
a layer of fruit for one of sugar until all is used up ; poui 
over the juice and boil gently until the syrup begins to 
thicken. 

The short-stem red cherries or the Morellas are best foi 
preserves. Sweet cherries wUl not do. 

Pkeseeved Strawberries. »J« 

Pound for pound. Put them in a preserving kettle over 
a slow fire until the sugar melts. Boil twenty-five minutes, 
fast. Take out the fruit in a perforated skimmer and fill 
a number of small cans three-quarters full. Boil and skim 
the syrup five minutes longer, fill up the jars, and seal while 
hot. 

Keep in a cool, dry place. 

Strawberry Jam. ^ 

For every pound of fruit three-quarters of a pound of 
sugar. 

1 pint red currant juice to every 4 pounds strawber- 
ries. 

Boil t?ie juice of the currants with the strawberries ha'f 
an hour, stirring all the time. Add the sugar, and boU 
up rapidly for about twenty minutes, skimming carefully 
Put in small jars, with brandied tissue-paper over the top. 

You can omit the currant juice, but the flavor will no! 
be BO fine. 



pkeseeyes and fettit jellhcs. 4.61 

Easpberry Jam. »J« 

f lb. of sugar to every lb. fruit. 

Pnt the fruit on alone, or with the addition of a pint of 
Ci'JTant j\tice to every four pounds of fruit. ■ Bcil half an 
hour, mashing and stirring well. Add the sugar, and coolf 
twenty minutes more. Blackberry jam is very nice made 
as above, leaving ou^ the currant juice. 

Gooseberry Jam 

Is made in the same manner as raspberry, only the cur- 
rant juice is omitted, and the gooseberries boiled one hour 
without the fruit, and another after it is put in. The firuit 
must be ripe. 

Ripe Tomato Preserves. 4* 

7 lbs. round yellow, or egg tomatoes — peded. 
7 lbs. sugar, and juice of 3 lemons. 

Let them stand together over night. Drain off the syrup 
and boil it, skimming well. Put in the tomatoes and boil 
gently twenty minutes. Take out the fruit with a perfo- 
rated skimmer, and spread upon dishes. Boil the syrup 
down until it thickens, adding, just before you take it up, 
the juice of three lemons. Put the fruit into the jars and 
fill up with hot syrup. When cold, seal or tie up. 

Gkeen Tomato Preserves. {Good.) 

8 lbs. small green tomatoes. Pierce each with a fork. 

7 lbs. sugar. 

4 lemons — ^the juice only. 

1 oz. ginger and mace mixed. 

Heat all together slowly, and boil until the fimit ia 
•lo«r. Take it from the kettle in a perforated skimmer 



468 COMMON SKMSE. 

and Bpread upon dishes to cool. Boil tie syrup thick, Put 
the fruit into jars and cover yfith. hot synip. 

Preserved Figs. »J« 

The ■weight of ripe figs in sugar. 
Peel of one lemon and juice of two. 
A little ginger. 

Cover the figs with cold water for twelve hours. Then 
Bimmer in water enough to cover them until tender, and 
spread out upon a sieve to cool and harden. Make a syrup 
of the sugar, and a cup of cold water for every poimd. 
Boil until clear of scum ; put in the figs and simmer ten 
minutes. Take them out and spread upon dishes in the 
sun. Add the lemons and ginger ; boil the syrup thick ; 
give the figs another boil of fifteen minutes, and fill the 
jars three-quarters of the way to the top. FlU up with 
boiling syrup, cover, and, when cold, seal up. 

Baked Apples. «J« 

Cut out the blossom end of sweet apples — Campilelds oi 
Pound Sweets — with a sharp penknife ; wash, buo do not 
pare them ; pack them in a large pudding-dish ; poar a cup- 
ful of water in the bottom, cover closely with another dish 
or pan ; set in a moderate oven, and steam until tender aU 
through. Pour the liquor over them while hot, and repeat 
this as they cool. Set on the ice several hours before tea, 
and, when you are ready, transfer them to a glass dish, 
pouring the juice over them again. Eat with powdered 
Bugar and cream. Apples baked in this way are more ten- 
der and digestible, and better fla vored, than those baked ia 
an open vessel. Campfields are particularly good. 



PBEB£BV£S AKD FBUIT JELLIES. 469 

A.PPLES Stewed "Whole. »J« 

Pare, and •with a small knife extract the cores of fin« 
jnicy apples that are not too tart ; put in a deep dish with 
just enough water to cover them ; cover and bake, or stew, 
in a moderate oven, until they are tender and clear ; take 
out lJi° apples, put in a bowl, and cover to keep hot ; put 
the juice into a saucepan, with a cupful of sugar for twelve 
apples, and boil half an hour. Season with mace, ginger, 
or whole cloves, adding the spice ten minutes before you 
remove the syrup from the fire. Pour scalding over the 
apples, and cover until cold. 

Eat with cream. 

Basjed Peaks. 

Sweet pears may be baked just as sweet apples are — 
\ «., steamed without being pared or cored. 

Or, 

If large, cut in half, put into a deep dish, with a very 
little water; sprinkle them with sugar, and put a few 
cloves, or bits of cinnamon, or a pinch of ginger among 
them. Cover closely, and bake until tender. , 

Stewed Pears. ^ 

If small and ripe, cut out the blossom-end, without 
paring or coring ; put into a saucepan, with enough water 
to cover them, and stew until tender; add a half cupful 
of sugar for every quart of pears, and stew all together ten 
minutes ; take out the pears, lay in a covered bowl to keej 
warm; add to the syrup a little ginger or a few cloves 
boil fifteen minutes longer, and pour over the fruit hot. 



4:70 COMMON 8BN8E. 

Or, 

U the pears are not quite ripe, but hard and disposed 
to be tough, peel tiiem, cut out the blossom-end, leaving on 
the stems, and stew until tender in enough water to covei 
them. Take' them out, set by in a covered dish to keep 
warm ; add to the liquor in the saucepan an equal quantity 
of the best molasses and a little ginger ; boil half an hour, 
skim, and return the pears to the saucepan. Stew all to- 
gether twenty minutes, and pour out. 

These are very good, and will keep a week or more^ 
even in warm weather. I have canned them while boiling 
hot, and kept them sweet a whole year. 

Baked Quinces, 

Pare and quarter ; extract the seeds and stew the fruit 
in clear water until a straw will pierce them ; put iato a 
baking-dish with a half cupful of sugar to every eight 
quinces; poujr over them the liquor in which they were 
boiled; cover closely, and steam in the oven one hour ; take 
out the quinces, lay them in a covered bowl to keep warm ; 
return the syrup to the saucepan, and boil twenty minutes ; 
pour over the quinces, and set away covered to cool. 

Eat cold. 



ERTJIT JELLIES. 

CURBANT, BlACKBEKRT, StEAWBEEET, BTO. »J« 

Put the &Tiit into a stone jar ; set this in a kettle of 
tepid water, and put it upon the fire. Let it boil, closely 
eovered, until the fruit is broken to pieces; strain, pressing 
the bag (a stout coarse one) hard, putting in but a few 
tandfuls at a time, and between each squeezing turning it 



FBUn JBLLIEB. 471 

inside out to scald oflf the pulp and skins. To eacli pint of 
juice^.allow a pound of sugar. Set the juice. on alone to 
boil, and while it is •warming divide the sugar into several 
different portions, and put into shallow pie-dishes or pans that 
will fit in your ovens ; heat in these, opening the ovens now 
and then to stir it and prevent burning. Boil the juice 
just twenty minutes from the moment it begins fairly to boil. 
By this time the sugar should be so hot you cannot bear 
your hand in it. Should it melt around *"he edges, do not 
be alarmed. The burned parts will only form into lumps 
■ in the syrup, and C£in easily be taken out. Throw tne sugar 
into the boiling juice, stirring rapidly all the while. It 
rill "hiss" as it falls in, and melt very quickly. With- 
draw your spoon when you are sure it is dissolved. Let 
«he jelly just come to a boil, to make all certain, and take 
the kettle instantly from the fire. Roll your glasses or 
sups in hot water, and fill with the scalding liquid. If 
vhese directions be strictly followed, and the fruit is at the 
^)roper state of ripeness, there need be no dread of failure. 
[ have often had the jelly "form" before I fiUed the last 
)glass. 

I wish it were in my power, by making known the ad- 
vantages of the process I have described, to put an end to 
the doubts and anxieties attendant upon the old-fashioned 
method of boiling jelly into a preserve. This plan is so 
simple and safe, the jelly made so superior in flavor and 
color to that produced by boiling down juice and fruit, that 
no one who has ever tried both ways can hesitate to give it 
the preference. I have put up jelly in no other way for 
twelve years, and have never failed once. 

Strawberry jelly should have a little lemon-juice added 
to that of the fruit. Both it and blackberry, and very ripe 
raspberry jelly, are apt to be less firm than that made 
&om more tart fruits ; still, do not boil it. Set it in th« 



472 COMMON SENSE. 

Bun, as I have directed at the beginniiig of the section npoii 
preserves and fruit jellies, filling one cup from anotJ^er aa 
the contents shrink. The sun will boil it down with less 
waste, and less injury to color and taste, than the fire will 
Cooking jelly always darkens it. 

Put brandied tissue-paper over the top of each glasi 
when cold and firm, paste a thick paper over it, and keep 
in a dry place. 

E.ASPBEEKY AJSV CuREANT JeLLY. t^ 

To two parts red raspberries or " Blackcaps," put one 
of red currants, and proceed as with other berry jelly. 

The flavor is exquisite. This jelly is especially nice for 
cake. 

"Wild Cherry aot? Ccrbant Jelly. »{• 

Two-thirds wild cherries (stones and all) and one of red 
currants. A pound of sugar to a pint of juice, and make as 
you do plain currant jeUy. 

This, besides being very palatable and an excellent table 
jelly, is highly medicinal, good for coughs and any weak- 
ness of the digestive organs. I put it up first as an experi- 
ment, and because I chanced to have the cherries. Now I 
would not pass the winter without it, unless obliged to do 
BO by a failure of the fruit crop. 

Peach Jelly. »J" 

' ' Crack one-third of the kernels and put them in the jar 
with the peaches, which should be pared, stoned, and 
sliced. Heat in a pot of boiling water, stirring from time 
to time until the fruit is well broken. Strain, and to every 
pint of peach juice add the juice of a lemon. Measure 
again, allowing a pound of sugar to a pint of liquid. Heat 
tiie sugar very hot, and add when the juice has boilei 



OAITNED FEmrS AND VEGETABLES. 473 

t^^enty minutes. Let it come to a boil, and take instant-y 
from the fire. 

This is very fine for jelly-cake. 

Greek Fox Grape Jelly »J* 

1b made after the receipt for currant jelly, only allowinff 
a pound and a half of sugar to a pint of juice. 
Ripe grapes require but pound for piat. 

Quince Jelly. »J« 

Pare and slice the quinces, and add for every five pounfffl 
of fruit a cup of water. Put peelings, cores, and aU into a 
stone jar ; set this in a pot of boiling water, and, when th» 
fruit is soft and broken, proceed as with other jellies. 

Crab-apple Jelly. t|a 

Cut Siberian crab-apples to pieces, but do not pare or 
remove the seeds. The latter impart a peculiarly pleasant 
flavor to the fruit. Put into a stone jar, set in a pot of hot 
water, and let it boil eight or nine hours. Leave in the jar 
sll night, covered closely. Next morning, squeeze out the 
juice, allow pound- for pint, and manage as you do currant 
jelly. 

Should the apples be very dry, add a cup of water for 
every six pounds of fruit. 

There is no finer jelly than this in appearance and in 
taste. 



CAITNED FRUITS AM) VEGETABLES. 

Within a few years canned fruits have, in a great 
os^isure, roperaeded preserves. They are cheaper, more 
wholesome, azA far less difficult to prepare. Attention te 



*14: COMMON SENSE. 

a few general rules •will insure success to csery housekeei>ei 
who sensibly prefers to put up ter own season's supplj 
of these to purchasing those for double the cost, which aro 
not nearlj so good. 

First, examine cans and elastics narrowly before you 
begin operations. See that the screw is in order, the can 
without crack or nick, the elastic firm and closely fit- 
ting. 

Secondly, have the fruit boiling hot when sealed. Have 
upon the range or s^ove a pan in which each empty can ia 
set to be filled after it is rolled in hot water. Lay elastic 
and top close to your hand, fill the can to overflowing, re 
membering that the fruit will shrink as it cools, and that a 
vacuum invites the air to enter ; clap on the top without 
the loss of a second, screw as tightly as you can, and as the 
contents and the can cool, screw again and again to fit the 
contraction of metal and glass. 

Thirdly, if you use glass cans (and they are cheapest in 
the end, for you can use them year after year, getting new 
elastics when you need them) keep them in a cool, dark place, 
and dry as well as cool. The light wiQ cause them to fer- 
ment, and also change the color. 

Camned Berkies. 4* 

Heat slowly to boiling, in a large kettle. When they 
begin to boU, add sugar in the proportion of one tablespoon- 
ful to 'jach quart of fruit. Before doing this, however, 
if ther'j is much juice in the kettle, dip out the surplus with 
a dipper or cup. It will only increasp th« number of cans 
to be filled, without real advantage to you. Leave the berries 
almost dry before putting in the sugar. This wiU make 
gyrup enough. BoU all together fifteen minutes, and can. 

Huckleberries, grapes, blackberries, currants, raspber- 
m?s, cherries, and strawberries put up in this way aro very 



CAMNfiD FJiUrrS AUTl YEOETABLES. 475 

good eaten as you would preserves, and make pies wliich ar» 
Bcarcpily inferior to tliose filled with fresh, fruit. 

Canned Peaches. ^ 

Pare, cut in half and stone, taking care not to break 
the fruit ; drop each piece in cold water so soon as it ia 
pared. The large, white freestone peaches are nicest for 
this purpose. Firmness of texture is a desideratum. The 
fruit should be ripe, but not soft. Allow a heaping table- 
spoonful of sugar to each quart of fruit, scattering it 
'jetween the layers. Fill your kettle and heat slowly to a 
rtoU. Boil three minutes, just to assure yourself that every 
j»iece of fruit is heated through. Can and seal. It i? 
wafe to put a cupful of water in the bottom of the kettle 
before packing it with fruit, lest the lower layer should 
l)um. 

Canned Peaks. »fi 

For the finer varieties, such as the Eartlett and Seckel, 
prepare a syruji, allowing a pint of pure water and a quar- 
ter of a pound of sugar to a quart of fruit. While this ia 
heating, peel the pears, dropping each, as it is pared, into a 
pan of clear water, lest the color should change by exposure 
to the air. When the syrup has come to a fast boU, put in 
the pears carefully, not to bruise them, and boU until they 
look clear and can be easily pierced by a fork. Have the 
cans ready, rolled in hot water, pack with the pears and fill 
to overflowing with the scalding syrup, which must be kept 
on the fire all the while, and seal. 

The tougher and more common pears must be boUed is 
water until tender ; thrown while warm into the hot synip 
jhen allowed to boil ten minutes before they are canned. 

Apples may be treated ia either of the abov way* u 
their texture may seem to demand. 



i76 UOMMON SKNSE. 

Canned Plums. *i» 

Prick with a needle to prevent bui'sting; prepare i 
syrup allowing a gill of pure water and a quarter of a pound 
of sugar to every ttree quarts of fruit. Wien tL.e sugai 
is dissolved and tie water blood-warm, put in the plums. 
Heat slowly to a boil. Let them boil five minutes — ndt 
fast or they will break badly, fill up the jars with plums, 
pour in the scalding syrup until it runs down the sides, 
and seal. 

Greengages are very fine put up in this way; also dam 
sons for pies. 

Canned Tomatoes. 4* 

" I don't hold with any of these new-fangled notions," 
oaid an old lady to me, when I mentioned that my canning 
was over for the summer. " I was beguiled, two years ago, 
into putting up some tomaytesses in cans, and if I'm for- 
given for that folly I'U never tempt Providence in the 
same manner again." 

" They didn't keep, then ? " 

" Keep ! they sp'Ued in a week 1 'Twas no more'n 1 
expected and deserved for meddling with such a hum- 
bug." 

" Perhaps you did not follow the directions closely ? " 

" Indeed I did ! I cooked the tormented things, and 
seasoned 'em with butter and salt, all ready for the table, 
and screwed the tops down tight. But, in course, they 
Bp'iled ! " 

" Were you careful to put them into the cans boiling 
bot?" 

" 'Twould have cracked the glass ! I let 'em get nif* 
and cold first. I didn't suppose it made any difierence 
about such a trifle as that ! " 

Poor old lady I I think of her and her mighty tempt» 



OANNKD FEDITH AND VEGETABLES. il't 

Hon of Providence whenever I can tomatoes, foi" Leal doet 
make a difference — all the difference in the world ii. thia 
Boi-t of work. 

Pour boiling water over the tomatoes to loosen the 
«4iu8. Remove these; drain off aU the juice that will 
some away without pressing hard ; put them into a kettle 
and heat slowly to a boil. Your tomatoes will look much 
nicer if you remove aU the hard parts before putting 
them on the fire, and rub the pulp soft with your hands. 
Boil ten minutes, dip out the surplus liquid, pour the 
tomatoes, boiling hot, into the cans, and seal. Keep in a 
cool, dark place. 

CAifNED Tomatoes and Corn. >^ 

Boil the com on the cob, when it is in nice order for 
roasting, twenty minutes over a good fire, and cut off while 
hot. Have your tomatoes skinned and rubbed to a smooth 
pulp. Put in two measures of them for every one of the cut 
com ; salt as for the table, stirring it weU in, and bring to 
a hard boil. Then, can quickly, and as soon as they are 
cold set away in a cool, dark place. 

Preserved Green Corn. •{* 

Boil on the cob until the mUk ceases to flow when the 
grain is pricked. Cut off the corn and pack in stone jars 
in the following order: — A layer of salt at the bottom, 
half an inch deep. Then one of com two inches in depth, 
another half-inch of salt, and so on until the jar is nearly 
£Ued. Lot the topmost layer of salt be double the depth of 
the others, and pour over all melted — not hot — lard. Presi 
GpoQ this, when nearly hard, thick white paper, cut to fii 
the mouth of the jax. Keep in a cool place. Soak over 
night before using it 



*78 COMMON SENSE. 

Green com is dilEcult to can, but 1 know it will keey 
well if put up ia this way. And, strange to tell, be sc 
fresh after the niglit's soaking as to require salt when yov 
boU it for the table. Should the top layer be musty, dig 
lower still, and you will'probably be rewarded for the search 



BEANDIED FRUITS. 

Bransieo Peaches or Peaks. ^ 

4 lbs. fruit. 

4 lbs. sugar. 

1 pint best white brandy. 

Make a syrup of the sugar and enough water to dissolve 
it. Let this come to a boil ; put the fruit in and boil five 
minutes. Having removed the fruit carefully, let the syrup 
boil fifteen minutes longer, or until it thickens well ; add 
the brandy, and take the kettle at once from the fire ; pour 
the hot syrup over the fruit, and seal. 

If, after the fruit is taken from the fire, a reddish liquor 
oozes from it, drain this off before adding the clear syrup. 
Put up in glass jars. 

Peaches and pears should be peeled for brandying. 
Plums should be pricked and watched carefully for fear of 
bursting. 

Bbaitdied CnEBBiES OB Berries. 4* 

Make a syrup of a pound of sugar and a half gill of 
water for every two lbs. of fruit. Heat to boiling, stirriDg 
to prevent burning, and pour over the berries while warin 
•—Twt hot. Let them stand together an hour ; put all into 
K preserving-kettle, and heat slowly; boil five minutes, takt 
out the fi-uit with a perforate! skimmer, and boil the syrup 



CANDIKS. 479 

twenty minutes. Add a pint of brandy for eveiy five ponndi 
of fruit J pour over the berries hot, and seal. 



CANDIES. 
Molasses Canst. >{> 

1 quart good molasses. 

i cup vinegar. 

1 cup sugar. 

Buttet the size of an egg. 

1 teaspoonful saleratus. 

Dissolve the sugar in the vinegar, mix with the moIa»- 
ges, and boil, stirring frequently, lUitil it hardens when 
dropped from the spoon into cold water; then stir in the 
butter and soda, the latter dissolved in hot water. Flavor to 
your taste, give one hard final stir, and pour into buttered 
dishes. As it cools, cut into squares for " taffey," or, while 
soft enough to handle, pull white into sticks, using only the 
buttered tips of your fingers for that purpose. 

CSUGAB-CANDYJ i^ 

6 cups of sugar. 

1 cup of vinegar, 

1 cup of water. 

Tablespoonfiil of butter, put in at the last, with 

1 teaspoonful saleratus dissolved in hot water. 

Boil, toithout stirring, half an hour, or until it crisje iu 
oold water. Pull white with the tips of your fingers. 

Since children must eat oandy, this is the best you can 
give theui. It is very nice. Flavor to taste. 



480 COMMON SESm. 



PICKLES. 



Use none but tte best cider vinegar ; especially avoid 
the sharp colorless liquid sold under that name. It is weak 
l.'lphuris acid, warranted to riddle the coat of any stcmach, 
*Ten that of an ostrich, if that bird were so bereft of the 
instinct of self-preservation as to make a lunch of bright- 
green cucumber-pickle seven times a week. 

If you boil pickles in bell-metal, do not let them stand 
in it one moment when it is off the fire ; and see for yovur- 
self that it is perfectly clean and newly scoured before the 
rinegar is put iii. 

Keep pickles in glass or hard stoneware ; look them 
uver every month ; remove the soft ones, and if there are 
weveral of these, drain off and scald the vinegar, adding a 
cup of sugar for each gallon, and poiu- hot over the pickles, 
.[f they are keeping well, throw in a liberal handful of sugar 
tor every gallon, and tie them up again. This tends to 
|)reseirye them, and mellows the sharpness of the vinegar. 
Chis does not apply to sweet pickle. 

Pickle, weU made, is better when a year old than at the 
i>nd of six months. I have eaten walnut pickle ten year* 
idld that was very fine. 

Keep your pickles well covered with vinegar. 

If you use ground spices, tie them up in thin musUii 
bags. 

Cucumber or Gherkin Pickle, i^ 

Choose small cucumbers, or gherkins, for this purpose 
They are more tender, and look better on the table. Ke- 
joct all over a finger in length, and every one that is mis- 
shapen or specked, however slightly. Pack in a stone jar 
or wooden bucket, in layers, strewing salt thickly between 
tuese. Cover th(« top layer out of sight with salt, and vom 



FI0KT.E8. 481 

on cold water enougli to cover all. Lay a Bmall plate or 
roimd board upon them, with a clean stone to keep it down. 
You may leave them ia the brine for a week or a month, 
•iiiTing up from the bottom every other day. K the longer 
time, be sure your salt and water is strong enough to bear 
up an egg. If you raise your own cucumbers, pick them 
every day, and drop in the pickle. When you are ready to 
put them up, throw away the brine, with any cucumbers 
that may have softened under the process, and lay the rest 
in cold fresh water for twenty-four hours. Change the 
water then for fresh, and leave it for another day. Hav? 
a kettle ready, lined with green vine-leaves, and lay the 
pickles evenly within it, scattering powdered alum over th« 
layers. A bit of alum as large as a pigeon-egg will be 
enough for a two-gallon kettleful. Pill with cold water, 
oover with vine-leaves, three deep ; put a close Ud or in- 
serted pan over all, and steam over a slow fire five or six 
hours, not allowing the water to boU. When the pickles 
••re a fine green, remove the leaves and throw the cucumbers 
'into very cold water. Let them stand in it while you pre- 
pare the vinegar. To one gallon allow a cup of sugar, three 
dozen whole black peppers, the same of cloves, half as 
much allspice, one dozen blades of mace. Boil five minutes; 
put the cucumbers into a stone jar, and pour the vinegar 
over them scalding hot. Cover closely. Two days after- 
ward scald the vinegar again and return to the pickles. 
Repeat this process three times more, at intervals bf two, 
four, and six days. Cover with a stoneware or wooden 
«op ; tie stout cloth over this, and keep in a cool, dry place. 
They wiU be ready for eating in two months. Examine 
every few weeks. 



iSi OOMMON SSNBB. 

Pickled Mangoes. «J« 

Foung musk or nutmeg melons. 

Englisli mustard-seed, two handfulis, mixed with 

Scraped horseradish, one handful. 

Mace and nutmeg pounded, 1 teaspoonfuL 

Chopped garlic, 2 teas2}oonfuls. 

A little ginger. 

Whole pepper-corns, 1 dozen. 

^ tablespoonful of ground mustard to a pint of tkt 

mixture* 
1 tablespoonful sugar to the same quantity. 
1 " best salad oil to the same. 

1 teaspoonful celerj-seed. 

Cut a slit in the side of the melon ; inseiu your finger 
and extract all the seeds. If you cannot get them out in 
this way, cut a slender piece out, saving it to replacej, — but 
the slit is better. Lay the mangoes in strong brine for 
three days. Drain off the brine, and freshen in pure water 
twenty-four hours. Green as you would cucumbers, and 
lay ia cold water until cold and firm. Fill with the stuf- 
fing ; sew up the sUt, or tie up with packthread ; pack in 
a deep stone jar, and pour scalding vinegar over them. 
Repeat this process three times more at intervals of two 
days, then tie up and set away in a cool, diy place. 

They will not be " ripe " iinder four months, but are 
very fine when they are. They will keep several years. 

Pepper Mangoes. •J* 

Are put up in the .same way, usiug green peppers tha» 
aro fuU-grown, but not tiaged with red. 

They are very good, but your fingers will smart aftei 
thrusting them into the peppers to pull out the seeds. Vcn 
this purpose I have used, first, a small penknife, to cut the 



<■ pounded fina 



PICKLEB. 4:83 

co«) from its attachment to tlie stem-end of the pepper, 
then a smooth bit of stick, to pry open the slit in the side 
and woi'k out the loose core or biuich of seed. By tha 
exsrcise of a little ingenuity you may spare yourself all 
•uflbring from this cause. Should your fingers burn badly, 
•uoint them witli sweet-oil and wear gloves that night 
Cream will alwo allay the smai't. 

Pickled Cabbage ( YeUow). 

2 gallons vinegar. 

1 pint white mustard-seed. 
4 oz. ginger. 

3 oz. popper-corns. 

1 oz. allspice. 

2 oz. cloves. 
1 oz. mace. 

1 oz. nutmeg. 

2 oz. turmeric. 
1 large handful of garlic, chopped. 
1 handful serapoti horseradish. 

4 lbs. sugar. 

3 oz. celery seed. 

3 lemons, sliced thin. 

Mix all and set in the sun for three days. 

To prepare the cabbage, cut in quarters — leaving off ths 
outer and green leaves — and put in a kettle of boiling l;rine. 
Cook three minutes. Take out, drain, and cover thickly with 
«alt, Spread out in the sun to dry ; then shake off the salt, 
and cover with cold ^-inegar in which has been steeped enough 
turmeric to color it well. Leave it in this two weeks, to 
draw out tlio salt and to plump the cabbage. They ars 
then ready to pack down in the seasoned vinegar. Do no 
use under six weeks or two months. 



484 OOMlirM SENSB. 

Pickled Cabbage {JPurple). 

Quarter the cabbage. Lay in a wooden tray, sprinkli 
taickly with salt, and set in the cellar until next day 
Drain off the brine, wipe dry, lay in the sun two hour% 
and cover with cold vinegar for twelve hours. Prepare 
the pickle by seasoning enough vinegar to cover the cab- 
bage with equal quantities of mace, cloves, whole white 
peppers ; a cup of sugar to every gallon of vinegar, and a 
teaspoonful of celery seed for every pint. Pack the cab- 
bage in a stone jar; boil the vinegar and spices five min- 
utes and pour on hot. Cover and set away in a cool, dry 
place. 

This will be ripe in six weeks. 

PicKiiED Onions. 

Peel the onions, which should be fine white ones — ^not 
too large. Let tliem stand in strong brine for four days, 
whanging it twice. Heat more brine to a boil, throw in the 
xnions, and boil three minutes. Throw them at once into 
wold water, and leave them there four hours. Pack in jars, 
Interspersing with whole mace, white pepper-corns, and 
cloves. Fill up with scalding vinegar in which y du have 
put a cupful of sugar for every gallon. Cork while hot. 

They will be ready for use in a month, but will be better 
at the end of tliree months. 

Green Beans and Radish Pods. 

Take young French or " string " beans, and radish pods 
just before they change color; green and pickle as y!>u Ac 
encumbers and gherkins. 



PICKLKB. ISA 

Nastuutium-seed. i^ 

Take the green seed after the liower haa dried oflf. Tiaj 
in Bait ami water two days, in cold water one day ; pack 
in bottles and cover with scalding viaegar, seasoned wi( h 
mace and white pepper-corns, and sweetened slightly with 
white sugar. Cork, and set away four weeks before jox 
nse them. 

They are an excellen substitute for capers. 

Pickled Butternuts and Walnuts. *^ 

Gather them when soft enough to be' pierced by a pin. 
Lay them in strong brine five days, changing this twice 
in the meantime. Drain, and wipe them with a coarsft 
cloth ; pierce each by running a large needle through it, 
and lay in cold water for six hours. 

To each gallon of vinegar allow a cup of sugar, three 
dozen each of whole cloves and black pepper-coms, half as 
much allspice, and a dozen blades of mace. Boil five 
minutes ; pack the nuts in small jars and pour over them 
scalding hot. Repeat this twice within a week ; tie up and 
set away. 

They will be good to eat in a month^and very good 
too. 

Pickled Cauliflower. »J« , 

Pick the whitest and closest bunches. Out into small 
!q)rays or clusters. Plunge into a kettle of scalding brine 
and boil three minutes. Take them out, lay upon a sieve 
or a cloth, sprinkle thickly with salt, and, when dry, brush 
this off. Cover with cold vinegar for two days, setting the 
jar in the sun. Then pack carefully in glass or stoneward 
jars, and pour over them scalding vinegar seasoned thus: 

To one gallon allow a cup of white sugar, a dozen blado« 



4:86 COMMON SENSE. 

of mace, a tablespoonful of celery-seed, two dozen « hit* 
pepper-corns ond some bits of red pejjper pods, a tablespoon- 
ful of coriander-seed, and the same of whole mustard. Boil 
five minutes. Repeat the scalding once a week for three 
weeks ; tie u], and set away. Keep the cauliflowers undei 
the vinegar lay putting a small plate on top. 

Sliced Oucumber Pickle. ( Fery nice.) 

2 dozen !!arge cucumbers, sUced, and boiled in vincgai 
enoiigh to cover them, one hour. Set aside iii tin 
hot vinegar. 
To each gaUon of cold vinegar allow — 

1 lb. sugar. 

1 tablespoonful of cinnamon, 

I " gi]]gei-. 

1 " black pepper. 

1 " celery-seed. 

1 teaspoonful of mace. 

1 " allspice. 

1 " cloves. 

1 tablespoonful tiumeric. 

1 " horseradish, scraped. 

1 " garlic, sliced. 

^ teaspoonful Cayeime pepper. 

Put in the cucumbers and stew two hours. 

The pickle will be ready for use so soon as it is colli 

Pickled Water-melon Rikd. {Mxtremdy nice.) 

Equal weight of rind and white sugar. 
^ ounce white ginger to a gallon of pickie. 
1 pint vinegar to every pound of sugar. 
1 tablespoonful turmeric to a gallon of pickle. 
Mace, cloves, and cinnamon to taste, 



PICKLE8. 481 

Take tbo thickest rind you can get, pare off the hard 
green rind, also the soft inner pulp. Lay the pieces — ^nairo^ 
strips or fanciful cuttings — in brine strong enough to floal 
an egg, aaJ let them remain in it ten days. Then soak in 
fair water, changing it e'vpry day for ten days. Cover them 
with clear water in a preserving-kettle, heat slowly and 
b lil five minutes. Take them out and plunge instantly into 
ice-water. Leave them in this until next day. Give them 
another gentle boil of five minutes in strong alum-water 
Simmer carefully, as a hard boil will injure them. Change 
directly from the alum to the ice-water again, and do not 
'(isturb them for four hours. After a third boil of five 
-viinutes, let them remain all night in the last water to make 
-hem tender. Next day add to enough water to cover the 
••inds sufficient sugar to make it quite sweet, biit not a syrup, 
Simmer the rinds in this ten minutes, throw the water away, 
luid spread them upon dishes to cool.*' Meanwhile prepare 
m second syriy), allowing sugar equal in weight to the rind, 
■ad half an ounce of sliced white ginger to a gallon of 
t'le pickle, with a cup of water for every two pounds of 
tagar. When the sugar is melted and the syrup quite 
Lot, but not boiling, put in the rinds and simmer until they 
look quite clear. Take it o\it, spread upon the dishes again, 
while you add to the syrup a pint of vinegar for every pound 
of the sugar you have put in, one tablespoonful of turmoria 
to a gallon of pickle ; mace, cloves, and cinnamon to taste. 
Boil this up, return the rind to it, and simmer fifteen 
minutes. Put up in glass jars. It will be fit for use in two 
weeks. 

This is a very handsome and delicious pickle, although 
it may seem to be made upon the principle of the Froncb- 
loan's pebble-soup. 



*88 common sknbe. 

Green Tomato Soy. »J« 

2 gallons tomatoes, green, "and sliced mtliout peelbg 
12 good-sized onions, also sliced. 
2 quarts vinegar. 

1 quart sugar. 

2 tablespjonfuls salt. 

2 " ground mustard. 

2 " black pepper, ground. 

1 tablespoonful allspice. 
1 " cloves. 

Mix all together and stew until tender, stirring ofUa 
lest they should scorch. Put up in small glass jars. 

This is a most useful and pleasant sauce for aLDUosl 
every kind of meat and fish. 

Sweet Tomato Pickle. ( Yery good.) •{• 

7 lbs. ripe tomatoes, peeled and sliced. 

3^ " sugar. 

1 oz. Cinnamon and mace mixed. 

1 " cloves. 

1 quart of vinegar. 

Mix all together and stew hour. 

Ripe Tomato Pickle. {N'o. 2.) 

2 gallons tomatoes, peeled, but not sliced, 

1 pint vinegar. 

2 lbs. sugar. 

Mace, nutmeg, and cinnamon to taste. 

Put all on together, heat slowly to a boil, and Bimmei 
tno hour. Put up in glass jars. 



PICKLES. 489 

SwKXT PioKTiE- -Plums, Pears, Peaches', or otheb 
Fruits. >{« 

7 lbs. fruit, pared. 
4 " white sugar. 
1 pint strong vinegar. 
Mace, cinnamon, and cloves 

Pare peaches and pears ; prick plums and damsons, ta 
mcttoes, " globes " or husk-tomatoes (otherwise known a« 
ground-plums), put into the kettle with alternate layers of 
sugar. Heat slowly to a boil ; add the vinegar and spice ; 
boil five minutes ; take out the fruit with a perforated 
skimmer and spread upon dishes to cool. Boil the syrup 
tliick ; pack the fruit in glass jars, and pour the syrup on 
boiling hot. 

Examine every few days for the first month, and should 
it show signs of fermenting set the jars (uncovered) in a 
kettle of water, and heat until the contents are scald- 
ing. 

Husk-tomatoes — a fruit which looks like a hybrid be- 
tween the tomato and plimi- — are particularly nice put up 
In this way. 

Pickled Peaches. 

10 lbs. fruit — pared. 

4^ " sugar. 

I quart vinegar. 
Mace, cinnamon, and cloves to tast«. 

Lay the peaches in the sugar for an hour ; drain off 
every drop of syrup, and put over the fire with about a 
cup of water. Boil until the scum ceases to rise. Skim ; 
put in thfl^^t and boil five minutes. Take out the 
peaches with a perforated sUjj^ner, and spread upon dishes 
\o cool. Add the vine^ir ^K si'ices to the syrup. Boi' 
21* 



490 costaioN sense. 

fifteen miuutes longer, and pour over the fruit in glsa 
jaxs. 

Pickled Peaches (unpeeled). 

Rnb the fur off with a coarse cloth, and prick eaoTi 
peach with a fork. Heat in jitst enough water to covei 
them until they almost boil ; take them out, and add to the 
water sugar in the following proportions : — 
For every 7 lbs. of fruit 

3 lbs. of sugar. 
Boil fifteen minutes ; skim, and add — 
3 pints of vinegar. 

1 tablespoonful (each) of allspice,' mace, and cinnamoni 
1 teasj)oonful :!elery-seed. 
1 " cloves. 

Put the spices in thin muslin bags. BoU all together 
ten minutes, then put in the fruit, and boil until they can 
be pierced with a straw. Take out the fruit with a skim- 
mer, and spread upon dishes to cool. Boil the syrup until 
thick, pack the peaches in glass jars, and pour this over 
them scalding hot. 

Yon may pickle pears in the same way without peeling. 

Pickled Cherkies. •}« 

Morella, or large I'ed tart chenies, as fresh as you can 
get them. 'J'o every quart allow a large cup of vinegar 
and two tablespoonfuls of sugar, with a dozen whole cloves 
und half a dozen blades of mace. 

Put the vinegar and sugar on to heat with the spices. 
Boil live minutes; turn out into a covered stoneware ves- 
sel, cover, and let it get perfectly cold. Strain out tha 
»pices, fill small jars three-quarters of the :^SfU) the top 



cover tiglitly. Leave the s^H on the cherries. 



Miune 
i^K 01 



with fruit, and ])our the coUignegar over them. Cork oi 



PiCKLETTE. »J« 

4 ju^e crisp cabbages, chopped fine. 

1 quart onions, chopped fine. 

2 quarts of vinegar, or enough to cover the cabbage. 
2 lbs. broTim sugar, 

2 tablespoonfuls ground mustard. 



2 


(( 


black pepper. 


2 


<( 


cinnamon* 


2 


« 


turmeric. 


2 


(( 


celery-seed. 


1 


(( 


allspice. 


1 


c< 


mace. 


1 


« 


alum, pulverized. 



Pack the cabbage and onions in alternate layers, with a 
Kttle salt between them. Let them stand until next day. 
Then scald the vinegar, sugar, and spices together, and pout 
over the cabbage and onion. Do this three mornings in suc- 
cession. On the fourth, put all together over the fire and 
beat to a boil. Let them boil five minutes. When cold, 
pack. in small jars. 

It is fit for use as soon as cool, but keeps weU. 



DKINKS. 

Coffee. 



Never tnj ground cofiee if you can get any other. Tlib 
mere fact that after they have gone to the expense of the 
machinery and labor reqiiisite for grinding it, the manufac- 
turers can sell it sheaper per pound than grocers can tha 
whole grains, roasted or raw, should convince every sensibl« 
person that it is adulterated with other aiiJ loss e&peiuiiv4 



492 COMMON St^SE. 

substances. Be that as it may, coffee loses its aruma bg 
rapidly aftei it is ground that it is worth yoiir while to 
buy it whole, either in small quantities freshly roasted, or 
raw, and roast it yourself. You can roast in a pan in the 
oven, stirring every few minutes, or in the same upon :li* 
top of the range. Stir often and roast quickly to a Irighi 
bro^^^l — not a dull black. While still hot, beat up the white 
of an egg with a tablespoonful of melted butter and stir up 
well with it. This will tend to preserve the flavor. Grind 
just enough at a time for a single making. 

To MAKE Coffee (boUed). 

1 fiill coffee-cup (^ pint) of ground coffee. 
1 quart of boiling water. 
White of an egg, and crushed shell of same. 
^ cvip of cold water to settle it. 

Stir up the eggshell and the white (beaten) with th* 
coffee, and a very little cold water, and mix gradnally with 
the boiling water in the coffee-boiler. Stir from the side* 
and top as it boils up. Boil pretty fast twelve minutes ; 
pour in the cold water and take from the fire, setting 
gently upon the hearth to settle. In five minutes, pour it 
off carefully into your silver, china., or Britannia coffee-pot, 
which should be previously w'ell scalded 

Send to table hot. 

To Make Coffee without Boiling. 

There are so many patent coffee-pots for this purpose, 
Mid the directions sold with these are so minute, that 1 
need give only a few general rules here. Allow rather more 
coffee to a given quantity of water than if it were to he 
boiled, and have it ground very fine. Put the coffee in th« 
«p{)etmost compartment, pour on the water very slow]] 



DKmKS. 493 

antil the fine coffee is saturated, then more rapidly. Th* 
water should be boiling. Shut down the top, and the coffee 
ought to be ready when it has gone through the double ot 
treble set of strainers. Should it not be strong enough, 
rin it through again. 

CAFfi AU Lait. 

1 piut very strong-»»ade coffee — fresh and hot. 
1 " boiling milk. 

The coffee should be poured off the grounds through a 
fine strainer (thin mushn is the best material) into the 
table coffee-pot. Add the milk, and set the pot where it will 
keep hot for five minutes before pouring it out 

Tea. 

2 teaspoonfuls of tea to one large cupful of boiUng 
water. 

Scald the teapot well, put in the tea, and, covering close, 
set it on the stove or range one minute to warm ; pour on 
enough boiling water to cover it well, and let it stand ten 
minutes to " draw." Keep the lid of the pot shut, and set 
in a warm place, but do not let it boU. Fill up with as 
much boiling water as you will need, and send hot to the 
table, after pouring into a heated china or silver pot. 

The bane of tea in many households is unboiled water. 
It can never extract the flavor as it should, although it 
stesp for hours. The kettle should not only steam, but 
bubble and puff in a hard boil before you add water from 
It to the tea-leaves. 

BoiUng after the tea is made, injures the flavor, eithci 
bj deailening or making it rank and " herby " 



4 94 cx)mmon sense. 

Chocolate. »J< 

6 tablespoonfuls grated chocolate to each pint of water, 
As much milk as you have water. 
Sweeten to taste. 

Put on the water boiling hot. Rub the chocolate smootli 
is. a little cold water, and stis into the boiling water. Boil 
twenty minutes ; add the rnirg- and boil ten minute» moroj 
stirring frequently. You can sweeten upon the fire or is 
the cups 

Cocoa Nibs, os Shells. >{• 

1 quart of boiling water. 

2 ozs. of cocoa nibs. 
1 quart fresh milk. 

Wet the shells or nibs up with a little cold water ; add 
to the boiliug, and cook one hour and a half ; strain, pi; t in 
the milk, let it heat almost to boiling, and take from tha 
fire. 

'This is excellent for invalids. 

INepaked Cocoa. »J« 

1 quart of water, boiling. 

2 ozs. prepared cocoa — Baker's is best. 
1 quart of milk. 

Make as you do chocolate — only boil nearly an hour 
before you add the milk, afterward heating almost to boil- 
ing. Sweeten to taste. 

Milk Tea ^^for Children). 

1 pint, fresh milk and the same of boiling water. Sweeten 
to taata 



DBINE8. 493 

Raspbekry Royal. 

4 quarts ripe berries. 
1 quart best cider vinegar. 
1 lb. white sugar. 
1 pint fine brandy. 

Pttv che berries in a stone jar, pour the vinegar crei 
them, jwJd the sugar, and pound the berries to a paste with 
a wooden pestle, or mash with a spoon. Let them stand in 
the sun four hours ; strain and squeeze out all the juice, 
and put in the brandy. Seal up in bottles ; lay them on 
their sides in the cellar, and cover with sawdust. 

Stir two tablespoonfuls into a tumbler of ice- water when 
you wish to use it. 

Raspberry Yiiteoab. »{< 

Put the raspben-ies into a stone vessel and mash them 
to a pulp. Add cider-vinegar — no specious imitation, but 
the genuine article — enough to cover it well. Stand in the 
Buu twelve hours, and all night in the cellar. Stir up well 
occasionally during this time. Strain, and put as many fresh 
berries in the jar as you took out; pour the strained vinegar 
over them ; mash and set in the sun all day. Strain a sec- 
ond time next day. To each quart of this juice allow 

1 pint of water. 

6 lbs. of sugar (best white) for every 3 pints of thin 
Uquid, juice and water mingled. 

Place over a gentle fire and stir until the sugai is dis- 
wived. Heat slowly to boiling, skimming ofi' the scum' 
And as soon as it fairly boils take off and strain. Bottle 
while warm, and seal the corks with sealing-wax, or bees' 
traz and rosin. 

A most re&eshiiig and plea ant drink. 



jld6 COUMON SBSSJB!. 

.Blackbekry Vinegab 

Is made in the same mauner as raspberr allowing 5 J 
Iba. Rugar to 3 pints of juice and water. 

VBlackberby C0IIDIAL.J 

1 quart of blackberry juice 

1 lb. white sugar. 

i oz. grated nutmeg. 

i oz. powdered cinnamon. 

^ oz. allspice. 

J oz. cloves. 

1 pint best brandy. 

Tie the spices in thin muslin bags; boil juice, dtigai, and 
spices together fifteen minutes, skimming well ; add the 
brandy ; set aside in a closely covered vessel to cool. "\^ hen 
perfectly cold, strain out the spices, and bottle, sealing th«> 
corks. 

Elderberry Wine. 

8 quarts of berries. 

4 quarts of boiling water poured over the berries 

Let it stand twelve hours, stirring now and then. Sk.ruii 
well, pressing out all the juice. Add 

3 lbs. of sugar to 4 quarts of juice. 
1 oz. powdered cinnamon. 
■J- oz. powdered cloves. 

Boil five minutes, and set away to ferment in a aton« 
jar, with a cloth thrown lightly over it. When it hai^ done 
fermenting, rack it ofi" carefully, not to disturb tho lees 
Bottle and cork down well. 



DBINKS. 497 

Cranberry Wine. 

Mash ripe berries to a pulp ; ]fet into a stone jar. 
Add 1 quart of water to 2 quarts of barrios. 

Stir well and let it stand two days. Strain through • 
double flannel bag ; mash a second supply of hemes, equal 
in quantity to the first, and cover with this liqidd. Steep 
two days more ; strain ; add 

1 lb. sugar for 3 quarts of liquor, 

and boil five minutes. Let it ferment in lightly covered 
jars ; rack ofi" and bottle. 

This is said to be very good for scrofula. 

Strawberry Wine. 

3 quarts of strawberries, mashed and strained. To the 
juice (there should be about a quart, if the berries are ripe 
(tnd fresh) add 

1 quart of water. 

1 lb. of sugar. 

Stir up well and ferment in a clean, sweet cask, leaving 
the bung out. When the working subsides close tightly, or 
rack off into bottles. 

This is said by those who have tasted it to be very good. 

Currant Wine. 

Pick, stem, mash, and strain the currants, which phould 
fce very ripe. 

To 1 quart of juice add 
J lb. white sugar. 
J pint of water. 

Stir all together long and -w-ell ; put into a clean cask, 
leaving out the bung, and covering the whole with a bU 



498 COMMON SEN8K. 

ci laco or- mosquito net. Let it ferment about four week*— 
rack off wlien it is quite still, and bottle. 

Jamaica Gingeb-beer. 

1 bottle Jamaica Ginger Extract. 
1 oz. cream-tartar. 
6 quarts water. 
1 lb. sugar. 

Stir until the sugar is melted, then put in the gratod 
peel of a lemon, and heat until blood-warm. Add a table- 
spoonful of brewers' yeast; stir weU and bottle, wiring 
down the corks. It will be fit for use in four days. 

This is a refreshing and healthful beverage mixed with 
pounded ice in hot weather. 

Baisix "Wine. 

1 lb. white sugar. 

2 lbs. raisins, seeded and chopped. 

1 lemon — aU the juice and half the grated peeL 

2 gallons boiUng water. 

Put all into a stone jar, and stir every day for a week. 
Strain, then, and bottle it. It will be fit for use in ten 
days. 

Lemonade ok Sherbert. 

3 lemons to a quart of water, 
6 tablespoonfuls of sugar. 

Pare the yellow peel from the lemons, and, unless you 
mean to use the sherbert immediately, leave it out. P, 
gives a bitter taste to the sugar if left long in it. Slica 
and squeeze the lemons upon the sugar, add a Very little 
water, and let them stand fifteen mintites. Then fill up 
with water ; ice well, stir, and pour out. 



DKINK8. 499 

Orangeade 

Ib made in the same manner, substituting oranges foi 
lumons. , 

fSTRAWBERRY Sherbert. 1 {l>elioioui.) 

1 quart of strawberries. 

3 pints of water. 

1 lemon — the juice only. 

1 tablespoonful orange-flowor water. 

f lb. white sugar. 

The strawberries should be fresh and ripe. Criish to a 
smooth paste ; add the rest of the uigredients (except 
the sugar), and let it stand three hours. Strain over tli8 
sugar, squeezing the cloth hard ; stir until the sugar is dis 
solved ; strain again and set in ice for two hours or more 
before you use it. 

Regent's Punch. (Fine.) 

1 Ib. loaf-sugar or rock candy. 

1 large cup strong black tea — (made). 

3 wine-glasses of brandy. 

3 " " rum. 

1 bottle champagne. 

2 oranges — -juice only. 

3 lemons — " " 
1 large lump of ice. 

This receipt was given me by a gentleman of the old 
school, a connoisseur in the matter of beverages as of 
cookery. " Tell your readers," he writes, " that battel 
punch was never brewed." I give receipt and message 
together. 



600 common sense. 

Roman Punch. 

m 

8 coffee cvips of lemonade — (strong and sweei), 
1 glass champagne. 

1 " rum. 

2 oranges — juice only. 

2 eggs — ^whites only — well whipped. 
•J lb. powdered sugar, beaten into the stiffened whites 
You must ice abundantly — or, if you prefer, freeze. 

Sherry Cobbler. 

Several slices of pineapple, cut in quarters. 

A lemon, sliced thin. 

An orange, " 

■J cup of powdered sugar. 

1 tumbler of sherry wine. 

Ice- water. 

Pounded ice. 

Take a wide-mouthed quart-pitcher and lay the sliced 
fruit in order in the bottom, sprinkling sugar and pounded 
ice between the layers. Cover with sugar and ice, and let 
all stand together five minutes. Add then two tumblers of 
water and all the sugar, and stir weU to dissolve this. Fill 
the pitcher nearly full of paunded ice, pour in the wine, 
and stir up from the bottom until the ingredients ara 
thoroughly mixed. In pouring it out put a slice of each 
kind of fruit in each goblet before adding the liquid. 

It is best sucked through a straw or glass tube. 

Nectar. »J« 

Make as above, substituting a little rose-water for the 
pineapple, and squeezing out the juice of the orange and 



DBINK8. 50] 

lemon, instead of putting in the slices. Sprinkle nutmeg 
ou the top. 

This forms a delicious and refreshing drink for in 
tAlida. 

Claret Punch. 

1 bottle of claret. 

J the quantity of ice-water. 

2 lemons, sliced. 

■J- cup powdered sugar. 

Cover the sUced lemon with sugar and let it stand ten 
minutes. A dd the water ; stir hard for a whole minute, and 
pour in the wine. Put pounded ice in each glass befor« 
filling with the mixture. 

Egg Nogg. »J« 

6 eggs — whites and yolks beaten separately and very 

stiff. 
1 quart rich milk.' 
J cup of sugar. 
|- pint best brandy. 
Flavor with nutmeg. 

Stir the yolks into the milk with the sugar, which should 
first be beaten with the yolks. Next comes the brandy. 
Lastly whip in the whites of three eggs. 

Cherry Bounce. 

4 lbs. of sour and the same quantity of sweet cherries, 
2^ lbs. white sugar. 
1 gallon best whiskey. 

CJrzsh the cherries to pieces by pounding in a deep 
wooden vessel with a smooth billet of wood. Beat hard 
enough bo crack all the stones. Put into a deep stone jar^ 
mix in the sugar well, and cover with the whiskey. SJiakc 



602 COMMON SENSE. 

around brisklj and turn into a demijohn. Cork tightly 
and let it stand a month, shaking it every day, and anothet 
month without touching it. Then strain off and bottle. 
It is better a year than six months old. 

If the Maltese cross appears but seldom in the section 
devoted to drinks, it is because most of my information 
respecting their manufacture is second-hand. In my own 
family they are so little used, except in sickness, that I 
should not dare to teach others, upon my own authority, 
how to prepare them. Indeed, the temptation I felt to omit 
many of them reminded me of a remark made, introductory 
of preserves, by one of the " Complete Housewives," who, 
all five together, drove me to the verge of an attack of con- 
gestion of the brain, before I had been a housekeeper for a 
week. Said this judicious lady : — " Preserves of all kinds 
are expensive and indigestible, and therefore poisonous. 
Therefore " — again — " I shaU not give directions for theit 
manufacture, except to remai'k that barheiTies stewed in 
molasses are economical, and a degree less hurtful than 
most others of that class of compounds." 

Then I reflected that I might, upon the same principle, 
exclude all receipts in which cocoanut is used, because it ia 
rank poison to me ; while a dear friend of mine would aa 
soon touch arsenic as an egg. A large majority of the 
beverages I have named are highly medicinal, and deserve 
a place in the housekeeper's calendar on that account. 
Many, so far from being hurtful, are beneficial to a weak 
stomach or a system suffering under general debDity, 
None which contain alcohol in any shape sliculd be ttsea 
iaily, much less semi- or tri-daily hy a well person. 

This principle reduced to practice would prove the pre- 
ventive ounce which would cure, all over the land, the need 
foi Temperance Societies and Inebriate Asylums. 



THE 6ICK-E00M. 608 

THE SICK-KOOM. 

The Bick-chamber should be the most qiiiet and cheerfuJ 
in the house — a sacred isle past which the waves of domes- 
tic toil and solicitude glide silently. This is not an easy 
rule to obey. Whoever the invalid may be, whether the 
mother, father, or the sweet youngling of the flock, the 
foundations of the household seem thrown out of course 
while the sickjaess lasts. You may have good servants and 
kind friends to aid you, but the hitch in the machinery is 
not to be smoothed out by their effoi-ts. The irregularity 
does not annoy you : you do not notice it if the attack be 
severe or dangerous. All other thoughts are swallowed up 
Ln the all-absorbing, ever-present alarm. You count noth 
ing an inconvenience that can bring present relief, or possi- 
ble healing to the beloved one ; disdain for yourself rest oi 
ease while the shadow hangs above the pillow crushed by 
the helpless head. But when it passes, when the first 
transport of thankfulness has subsided into an abiding sonsa 
of safety, the mind swings back to the accustomed pivot, 
and your eyes seem to be suddenly unbound. You find, with 
dismay, that the children have run wild, and the comfort of 
the whole family been neglected dviring your confinement to 
the post of most urgent duty; with displeasure, that the 
servants have, as you consider, taken advantage of your 
situation to omit this task, and to slur over that ; — in 
fine, that nothing has been done well, and so many tnvngs 
left altogsther undone, that you are " worried out of your 
senses" — a phrase that too often signifies, out of your 
temper. 

And it is jist at this juncture — when you are called to 
fifty points of attention and labor at once, and are on the 
verge of despair at the conglomeration worse conglomerated 
Arising before vou ; fid getting to pick up dropped stitches in 



604 COMMOK SENSE. 

the web you were wont to keep so even — that the invalid 
becomes most exacting. " "Unreasonable," you name it to 
yourself, even though it be John himself who calls upon 
you every third minute for some little office of loving-kind- 
ness ; who wants to be amused and fed and petted, and 
made generally comfortable as if he were a six-months-old 
baby ; who never remembers that you must be wearied out 
with watoiiing and anxiety, and that everything below- 
Btairs is going to destruction for the want of a balance- 
wheel. The better he loves you the more apt is he to fancy 
*\hat nobody but you can do anything for him ; the more 
.ertain to crave something which no one else knows how to 
j<repare. And when you have strained muscle and patience 
<. little further to get it ready, and with prudent foresight 
laade enough to last for several meals, it is more than 
probable that his fickle taste will suggest something entire- 
ly different for " next time." " Just for a change, you 
know, dear. One gets so tired of eating the same thing so 
often ! " 

He might be more considerate — less childish — you 
stink, turning away that he may not see your change of 
countenance. When you have taken so much pains to 
suit him exactly I It is harder yet when he refuses to 
do more than taste the delicacy you hoped would tempt 
him.. 

" It is very nice, I suppose, my love," says the poor 
fellow, with the air of a martyr. " But it does not taste 
right, somehow. Maybe the children can dispose of it If 
I had a lemon ice, or some wine jelly such as my mother 
used to make, I am sure I could reUsh it. I always did 
dstest sick peoples' diet ! " 

If he is very much shaken as to nerves, he will be likely 
to Bay, " messes." 

" I am fairly wild ! " said a loving wife and mothi r, and 



THB SICK-ROOM. 508 

khrifly housekeeper, to me one day, \rhen I called to see 
her. 

She had just nursed her husband and three children 
through the influenza. All had been down with it at once. 
That form of demoniacal possession is generally conducted 
upon the wholesale principle. One of her servants had 
left in disgust at" the increased pressure of work; the 
weather was rainy, blowy, raw ; the streets were muddy, 
and there was no such thing as keeping steps and halls 
clean, while the four invalids were cross as only toothache 
or influenza can make human beings. 

" I am fairly wild ! " said the worthy creature, with 
tears in her eyes. " I cannot snatch a minute, from mom- 
•iig until night, to put tuings straight, and yet I am almost 
tired to death ! I was saying to myself as you came in, that 
c wouldn't try any longer. I would just sit still until the 
tdrt was piled up to my chin, and then J would get upon the 
table!" 

How often I have thought of her odd speech since ! 
■ometimes with a smile — more frequently with a sigh. But 
with all my pity for the nurse and housekeeper, I cannot 
conceal from myself — I would not forget, or let you for- 
get for a moment — the truth that the sick one is the greater 
safferer. It is never pleasant to be laid upon the shelf. 
The resting-place — falsely so-called — is hard and narrow 
and uneven enough, even when the tramp of the outer world 
does not jar the sore and jaded frame ; when there is no ap- 
parent need for the sick person to be upon his feet, and for 
aught that others can see, or he can say, he might just a? 
well stay where he is for a month or two. But when, the 
rack of j)ain having been removed, the dulled percei)tions 
of the mind re-awaken to sensitiveness, and there comes to 
his ear the bugle-call of duty — sharj>, imperative ; — when 
every idle moment speaks to him of a slain opportunity, 
22 



506 OOMMOU BEKSE. 

and the uo longer strong man shakes his fetttu-s with piteooa 
cries against fate, do not despise or be impatient with him. 
He is feverish and inconsiderate and capricious because he 
is not himself. You see only the poor wreck left by thf 
demon as he tore his way out of him at the Divine com- 
mand. Gather it up lovingly in your arms, and nui-se it 
back to strength and comeliness. The sick should always 
be the chief object of thought and care witli all in the 
household. If need be, let the dirt lie chin-deep every- 
where else, so long as it is kept out of that one room. 
There be jealous in your care that nothing offends sight 
and smell. 

There should be no smell in a sick-chamber. To avoia 
this, let in the air freely and often. Cologne-water will 
not dispel a foul odor, while disinfectants are noisome in 
themselves. Bathe the patient as frequently and thoi- 
oughly as prudence will allow, and change his clothing, 
with the bed- linen, every day. Do not keep the modicinoR 
where he can see them, nor ever let him witness the mi> • 
ing of that which he is to swallow. So soon as his meal* 
are over, remove every vestige of them from the roon . 
Even a soiled spoon, lying on table or bureau, may offena 
his fastidious appetite. Cover the stand or waiter froiu 
which he eats with a spotless napkin, and servo his food iia 
jovi daintiest ware. 

My heart softens almost to tearfulness wlien I recall the 
hours, days, weeks, I have myself spent in the chamber of 
languishing, and the ingenuity of tenderness that, from my 
babyhood, has striven to cheat the imprisonment of weari- 
ness, and make me forget pain and uselessness. The pretty 
Burjirises daily invented for my entertainment ; the exceed- 
ing nicety with which they were set out before me ; the 
loving words that nourished my spirit when the body wan 
faint unto death, — these are events, not slight incidents, ir 



THE BICK-EOOM. 501 

tbo book of memory When I cease to be grateful for tl.em, 
01 to learn from them how to minister unto others of the 
like consolation, may my heart forget to beat, my right haad 
lose her cunning ! 

Do not ask your charge what he would like to eat to 
iay. He will, of a surety, sicken with the effort at selection, 
and say, " Nothing ! " But watch attentively for the slight 
est intimation of a desii-e for any particular delicacy, and il 
you are assured that it cannot hurt him, procure it, if you 
can, without letting him guess at your intention. Feed him 
lightly and often, never bringing more into his sight chan 
he may safely eat. A big bowl of broth or jelly will either 
tempt him to imprudence, or discoxirage him. " Am I to 
be burdened with all that ? " cries the affitighted stomach, 
ind will have none of it. While he is very weak, feed him 
with your own hand, playfully, as you would a child, talk- 
ing cheerily of something besides his food, and coaxing liim 
into taking the needed nutriment as only a wife and mother 
can, or as nobody but John could beguile you to 'iffort in 
the same direction. 

Study all pleasant and soothing arts to wliilo away the 
time, and keep worry of every kind away from him. A 
trifle at which you can laugh will be a biirdon to the en- 
feebled mind and body, and he has nothing to do but lie 
still and roll it over until it swells into a mountain. When 
he can be removed without danger, let him have his meals 
Ln another room, changing the air of each when he is not 
in it. Every one who has suffered from long sicknesg 
knows the peculiar loathing attendant upon the idea that all 
tood is tainted with the atmosphere of the chamber in whieb 
\t is served, and if eaten in bed, tastes of the mattress aiid 
J Allows. The room and all in it may be clean, fresh, aiui 
sweet, but the fancy cannot be dismissed. And it is ythim 
to Uwijior than to reason with most sick fancies. 



508 COMMON SENSE. 

A hired muse is a useful, often a necessary thing, b:il 
while you are upon your Teet, and mistress of your own 
house, delegata to no one the precious task of catering for 
the dear sufferer. It is an art in itself. I hope a practical 
knowledge of it will be taught in Women's Medical CoUegeSj 
when they are an established " institution " with us. 

I wish it were proper to record here the name of one ol 
the kindest and beg*, family physicians I ever knew, who 
had charge of my not very firm health during my girlhoou. 
He owed much — I suppose no one ever knew really how 
much — of his success in his practice to his tact and skill in 
devising palatable and suitable nourishment for his patients. 
I well remember the childish pleasure with which I would 
hear him say when the violence of the attack had passed — 
" Now, my dear child, we must begin with kitchen physic !" 
nnd the glow of amused expectation with which I used to 
watch him, as, with an arch show of mystery, he would 
beckon my mother from the room to receive his " prescrip- 
tion ; " the impatience with which I awaited the result of 
the conference, and the zest with which I ate whatever he 
ordered. 

If I could have persuaded him to manage this depart- 
ment of my work, it would win for me the degree of M.D. 
with a new meaning — Mistress of Dietetics. 



THE SICK-ROOM. 

Beep Tea. »{« 

1 lb. lean beef, cut into small pieces. 

Put into ajar without a drop of water; cover tightly, 
uid set in a pot of cold water. Heat gradually to a boil, 
md contiaue this steadily for three or four hours, until th« 



THE SIOK-UOOM. 50li 

meat is like white rags, and the juice all drawn out. Sea- 
son with salt to taste, and when cold, skim. The patient 
will often prefer this ice-cold to hot. Serve with A-lbort 
biscuit or thin " wafers," unleavened, or made by a receipl 
given under the head of Bkead. 

Mutton Broth. »fi 

1 lb. lean mutton or lamb, out small. 
1 quart water — cold. 

1 tablespoonful rice, or barley, soaked in a very Uttk 

warm water. 
4 tablespoonfuls milk. 
Salt and pepper, with a little chopped parsley. 

Boil the me^t, unsaltod, in the water, keeping it closely 
sovered, until it falls to pieces. Strain it out, add tlie 
soaked barley or rice ; simmer half an hour, stirring often ; 
stir in the seasoning and the milk, and simmer five minutes 
after it heats up well, taking care it does not burn. 

Serve hot, with cream crackers. 

Chicken Broth. ■{« 

Is excellent made in the same manner as mutton, crach 
mg the bones well before you put in the fowl. 

Veal and Sago Bboth. 

2 lbs. knuckle of veal, cracked all to pieces, 

2 quarts of cold water. 

3 tablespoonfuls best pearl sago, soaked in a cup of cold 

water. 
1 cup cream, heated to boiling. 
Yolks of two eggs, beaten light. 

Boil the veal and water in a covered saucepan y»n 



510 COMMON SHNBE. 

slowly antil reduced to one quart of liquid ; strain, seasoa 
with salt, and stir in the soaked sago (having previously 
warmed it by setting for half an hour in a, saucepan of 
boiling water, and stirred from time to time). Simmei 
half an h:;ur, taking care it does not burn; beat in the 
cream and eggs ; give one good boil up. and turn out, 
Tliis is excellent for consumptives.. 

Beep and Saoo Bboth. 

2 lbs. of beef — cut up small. 

2 quarts of water. 

1 cup of sago, soaked soft in a little lukewarm water. 

Yolks of three eggs. 

Salt to taste. 

Stew the beef until it falls to pieces ; strain it out, salt 
hhe liquid and stir in the sago. Simmer gently one Lour, 
ftlining often. Add the beaten yolks; boil ug well and 
serve. 

This is a strengthening and nice soup. Eat with dry 
koast. 

Arrowroot Jelly {plain). •{" 

1 cup boiling waier. 

2 heaping teaspoonfuls of best Bermuda arrowroot. 

1 teaspoonful lemon ■•nice. 

2 teaspoonfuls of white sugar. 

Wet the arrowroot in a little cold water, and rub 
smooth. Then stir into the hot, which should be on Iho 
fire and actually boiling at the time, with the sugar aln.ady 
melted in it. Stir until clear, boiling steadily all the wliile, 
and add the lemon. Wet a cup in cold water, and pour in 
the j"illy to form. Eat cold with sugar and cream flavored 
with rose-vater 



THE 9I0K-KOOM. fill 

An invaluable preparation in cases where wine is for' 
bidden. *■ 

Aurowroot "Winb Jelly'. «J« 

1 cup boiling water. 

2 heaping teaspoonfula arrowroot, 
2 " white sugar. 

1 tablespuonful brandy, or 3 tablespoonfuls of winA. 

An excellent corrective to weak bowels. 

A-BROWKOOT BlANC-MANOE. »J« 

1 cupful boilinff milk. 

2 dessertspoonfuls best arrowroot, rubbed smooth is 

cold water. 
2 teaspoonfula white sugar. 
Vanilla or other essence. 

Boil until it thickens well, stirring all the whUe. Eat 
cold with cream, flavored with rose water, and sweetened to 
taste. 

Sago 

May be substituted for arrowroot in any of the forego- 
ing receipts, when you have soaked it an hour in water 
poured over it cold,, and gradually warmed by seti.Lng the 
cup containing it in hot water. Boil rather long >r tboB 
you do ^ihe arrowroot. 

Sago Gruel. »{• 
2 cups water. 

2 tablespoonfuls sago. 

3 teaspoonfuls white sug »r. 
1 glass of wine. 

] table.spoonful lemon j nice. 
Nutmeg to taste, and a pinch of salt. 



512 COMMON SENSE. 

Put the sago in the -water while cold, and wsirm bj 
Betting in a saucepan of bcWing ■water. Stir often, and lei 
it soften and heat for one hour. Then boU ten minutes, 
stirring all the while ; add the sugar, wine, and lemon, and 
pour into a bowl or mould to cool. Eat warm, if preferred. 
The wine and nutmeg should be omitted if the patient ui 
feverish. 

Indian Meal Gruel, tj* 

2 quarts of boiling water. 

1 cup of Indian meal, and 

1 tablespoonful flour, wet iip with cold water. 

Salt to taste — and, if you Hke, sugar and nutmeg. 

Wet the meal and flour to a smooth paste, and stir into 
the water while it is actually boiling. Boil slowly half an 
hour, stirring up well from the bottom. Season with salt 
to taste. Some sweeten it, but I like it better with a little 
pepper added to the salt. 

If a cathartic is desired, omit the wheat flour altogether, 

Oatmeal Gruel 
Is made in the same way, 

Milk and Rice Gruel. 

1 quart boiling milk. 

2 tablespoonfiils (heaping) of ground rice, wet witL cold 

milk. 
1 saltspoonful of salt. 

Stir in the rice-paste and boil ten minutes, stirring all 
the while. Season with sugar and nutmeg, and eat warm 
with cream. 

You may use Indian meal instead of rice-flour, orhicY 
b an istringent. In this case, boil half an hour. 



THE SIOK-EOOM. 513 

Dried Fi^oub fou TEKTUiira Ohildeen. 

1 cup of flour, tied in a stout muslia bag and dropped 
into cold water, then set over tlie fire. 

Soil three hours steadily. Turn o\it the flour baU 
and dry in the hot sun all day.; or, if you need it al oncq. 
diy in a moderate oven without shutting the door. 

To use it — 
Grato a tablospoonful for a cupful of boiling milk and 
water (half and half). Wet up the flour with a very little 
cold water, stir in and boil five minutes. Put in a little 
salt. 

TiPiocA Jelly. »J« ( Very good.) 

1 cup of tapioca. 

3 cups of cold water. 

Juice of a lemon, and a pinch of the grated peel. 

Sweeten to taste. 

Soak the tapioca in the water four hours. Set within 
a saucepan of boiling water ; pour more luke-warm water 
over the tapioca if it has absorbed too much of the liquid, 
and heat, stirring frequently. If too thick after it begins 
to clear, put in a very little boiling water. When quite 
clear, put in the sugar and lemon. Pour into moulds. Eat 
eold, with cream flavored with rosewater and sweetened. 

Tapioca Blanc-mange. »{« 

1 cup of tapioca soaked in 2 cups cold water. 

3 cups boiling milk. 

3 tablespoonfals white sugar, 

Rosewater or vanilla. 

Sjak the tapioca four hours, and stir, with the water in 
Brliich it was soaked, into the boiling milk. Sweeten and 
22* 



514 COMMON SENSE. 

boil slowly, stirring all the while, fifteen minutes. Tak* 
off, flavor and ponr into moulds. 

Eat cold with cream. Wash tapioca well before scoking, 

Arrowroot Custard. {Ifice.) 

2 cups of boiling milk. 

3 heaping teaspoonfuls arrowroot, wet up with a littl« 

cold milk. 
2 tablespoonfuls white sugar, beaten with the egg. 

1 egg, very well beaten. 

Mix the arrowTOot-paste with the boiling milk ; atii 
three minutes ; take from the fire and whip in the egg and 
lugar. Boil two minutes longer, flavor with vanilla oi 
rosewater, and pour into moulds. 

Rice-Floub Milk, 

2 cups of milk, boiling. 

2 tablespoonfuls rice-floiir, wet up with cold milk. 

2 " white sugar. 

Boil ten minutes, stirring all the while, and flavor to 
Uste. Eat warm with cream. 

Sago Milk. •{• 

3 tablespoonfuls sago, soaked in a large cup cold waiei 

one hour. 
3 cups boiling milk. 
S sweeten and flavor to taste. 

Bimmei slowly half an hour. Eat warm, 

Tapioca Milk 
U made in the same way. 



THB 8ICK-E00M. 616 

BoiLBD Rice. >{« 

I cup whole rice, boiled in just enough water to cover it 

1 " of miJk. 

A little salt. 

1 egg, beaten Kght. 

When the rice is nearly done, turn oif the water, add 
clie milk and simmer — taking care it does not scorch — until 
the m il k boils up well. Salt, and beat in the egg. 

Eat warm with cream, sugar, and nutmeg. 

Panada. •{« 

6 Boston crackers, spUt. 

2 tablespoonfuls wliite sugar. 

A good j)inch of salt, and a little nutmeg. 

Enough boiling water to cover them well. 

Split the crackers, and pile in a bowl in layers, salt and 
sugar scattered among them. Cover with boiling watei 
and set on the hearth, with a close top over the bowl, for 
at least one hour. The crackers shoidd be almost clear 
and soft as jelly, but not broken. 

Eat from the bowl, with more sugar spi-inkled in if you 
wish it, K properly made, this panada is very, nice. 

Bread Panada, or Jelly, ^ 

Pare some slices of stale baker's bread and toast nicely, 
without burning. Pile in a bowl, sprinkling sugar and a 
very little salt between ; cover weU with boiling water, 
ftnd set, with a tight lid upon the top, in a pan of boiling 
w&ter. Sinmier gently, until the contents of the bowl are 
ike jelly. Eat warm with powdered sugar and nutmeg. 



618 COMMON SENSE. 

Chicken Jelly. ( Veri/ nov/rishmff.) ej« 

Half a raw chicken, pouaded witli a mallet, bonos ao J 

meat together. 
Plenty of cold water to cover it well — about a quart; 

Heat slowly in a covered vessel, and let it simmer until 
the meat is in white rags and the Kquid reduced one-half. 
Strain and press, first through a cullender, then throiigh a 
coarse cloth. Salt to taste, and pepper, if you think best ; 
return to the fire, and simmer five minutes longer. Skim 
when cool. Give to the patient cold; — -just from the ice — 
■with unleavened wafers. Keep on the ice. You can make 
into sandwiches by putting the jelly between thin slices ol 
bread spread lightly with butter. 

Calves' Feet Broth. 

2 calves' feet. 
2 quarts cold water. 
.1 egg, beaten up with two tablespoonfuls minr for each 

cupful of broth. 
Pepper and salt. 

Boil the feet to shreds; strain the liquor through a 
double mnslui bag ; season to taste, and set by .for use, as 
you need it. Warm by the small quantity, allowing to 
each cupful a beaten egg and two tablespoonfuls of milk. 
Give a good boil up to cook these, and serve with thin, crisp 
toast. If the patient can take it, a dash of lemon-juice im- 
proves the broth. 

Toast Watek. »J« 

Slices of toast, nicely browned, without a symptom of 

burning. 
Enough boiling water to cover them. 



THE eiOK-KOOM. 



611 



CoTer closely, and let them steep until cold. Strain the 
water, sweeten to \aste, and put a piece of ice in each glass- 
ful. If tlie physician thinks it safe, add a Uttle lemon 
juice. 

Apple Water. ^ 

1 large juicy pippin, the most finely-flavored you can 
get. 

3 cups of cold water — 1 quart if the apple ia very 

large. 

Pare and quarter the apple, but do not core it. Put it 
on the fire in a tin or porcelain saucepan with the water, 
and boil, closely covered, until the apple stews to pieces. 
Strain the liquor at once, pressing the apple hard in the cloth. 
Strain this again through a fijier bag, and set away to cool. 
Sweeten with white sugar, and ico for drinting. 

It is a refresliing and palatable drink. 

f Jelly Water. '^ 

1 large teaspoonful currant or cranberry jelly, 
1 goblet ice- water. 

Beat up well for a fever-patient. 

Wild cherry or blackberry jelly is excellent, prepared 
in like manner for those suffering with summer complaint. 

Flax-seed Lemonade. ^ 

4 tablespoonfuls flax-seed (whole). 

1 quart boiling water poured upon the flax-seed. 
Juice of two lemons, leaving out the. peel. 
Sweeten to taste. 

Steep three hours in a covered pitcher. If too t^tok, 
put in cold water with the lemon-juice and sus^ar. Ice foi 
drinking. 

It is admirable for colda. 



618 COMMON SENSE. 

SiiippEKY-ELM Bark Tea. 

Break the bark into bits, pour boiling water over ib' 
co^'cr and let it infuse until cold. Sweeten, ice, and take 
for summer disorders, or add lemon-juice and drink for a 
bad cold. 

Apple Toddy. »{• 

Boil a large juicy pippin in a quart of water, and when 
it has broken to pieces strain off the water. While it is 
itill boiling-hot, add a glass of fine old whiskey, a little 
•^inon-juice, and sweeten to taste. 

Take hot at bed-time for influenza. 

Milk Punch. •}« 

1 tumbler of milk, well sweetened. 

2 tablespoonfuls best brandy, well stirred in. 

I have known very sick patients to be kept alive for days 
tt a time by this mixture, and nothing else, until Nature 
srnld rally her forces. Give very cold with ice. 

Egg and Milk Punch »J« 

Is made by the preceding receipt, with an egg beaten 
very light with the sugar, and stirred in before the brandy 
'is added. 

Iceland or Ibish Moss Lemonade. •J* 

1 handful Irish or Iceland moss, washed in five waters, 

2 quarts boiling water, poured upon the moss, and lefi 

until cold. 
2 lemons, peeled and sliced, leaving out the peel. 
Sweeten very well and ice. 

Do not strain, and if it thicken too mueh, add cole 
rater. 

Excellent for feverish colds and all pulmonary tronbles 



the siok-koom. 519 

Iceland or Irish M"oss Jelly. ►{• 

1 handful moss, washed in five waters, and soaked an 
hour. 

1 quart boiling water. 

2 lemons — the juice only. 
1 glass of wine. 

i teaspoonful cinnamon. (Measure scantily.) 

Soak the washed moss in a very little cold water ; stii 
Into the boOing, and simmer until it is dissolved. Sweeten, 
flavor, and strain into moulds. You may use two glasses 
of cider instead of one of wine for a fever-patient, putting 
in a little less water. 

Good for colds, and very nourishing. 

Sea-moss Blanomangb 

Is made in the same way, using boiling milk instead of 
water, and leaving out the lemons and wine. Flavor with 
ranilla or rose-water. 

Day Toast. 

Pare off the crust from stale light bread ; slice half an 
tnch thick and toast quickly. Graham bread is very nice 
toasted. 

Butter lightly if the patient can eat butter. 

Milk Toast. »|« 

Toast as just directed ; dip each slice, as it comes from 
the tjMSBter, in boiling water ; butter, salt slightly, and lay 
Is a deep covered dish. Have ready in a saucepan enough 
boiling milk to cover all well. When your slices are packed 
gait this very slightly ; melt in it a bit of butter and poui 
over them. Cover closely and let it- stand five minutes 



520 oosmoN sense. 

before using it. It is excellent when made of Grahan 
bread. 

This is a good dish for a family tea as well as for invar 

Uds. 

TJni^eavened Biscuit, or Wafeks. »J« 

Mix good, dry flour to a stiff dough with milk ; Balt^ 
and roll out thin. Cut into round cakes and roll these 
again almost as thin as letter-paper. Bake very quickly. 

They may also be mixed with water. These are very 
Bimplo and palatable, and go well with all kinds of broth, 
especially oyster-soup. 

Dried Busk. (See JBread.) 

Beef Steak aitd Muttok Cnops. 

Choose the teuderest cuts and broil over a clear hot fire 
with your wisest skill. Let the steak be rare — the chops 
well-done. Salt and pepper, lay between two hot plates 
thi-ee minutes, and serve to your patient. If he is very 
weak, do not let him swallow anything except the juice, 
when he has chewed the meat well. 

The essence of rai-e beef — roast or broiled — thus ex- 
pressed, is considered by some physicians to be more 
strengthening than beef-tea, prepared in the usual manner. 

Sakgaeee or Porteeeb. 

One-third wine or porter mixed with two-thirds cold 
water. Sweeten, grate nutmeg on the top, and ice. 

Serve dry toast with it. Taken hot, it is good for a sud- 

dan cold. 

Wine Whey, 

1 pint boiling milk. 

1 large glass pale wine, poured in when the milk ia 
Bcaliling hot. Boil up once, remove from tlie fire and let i' 



THE SICK-EOOM. 521 

cool. Do not stir jA after the ■wine is put in, Wlien th« 
curd forms, draw off the whey and sweeten. 

Herb Teas 

Are aa ie by infiTsing the dried or green leaves and stalkj 
in boiling water, and letting them stand until cold. Sweeten 
to taste. 

Sage tea, sweetened with honey, is good for a sore throat, 
used as a gargle, with a small bit of alum dissolved in it. 

Catnip tea is the best panacea for infant ills, in the way 
of cold and colic, known to nurses. 

Pennyroyal tea will often avert the unpleasant conse- 
quences of a sudden check of perspiration, or the evils in- 
duced by ladies' thin shoes. 

Chamomile and gentian teas are excellent tonics taken 
either cold or hot. 

The tea made from blackberry-root is said to be good foi 
summer disorders. . That from green strawberry leaves is an 
admirable and soothing wash for a cankered mouth. 

Tea of parsley-root scraped and steeped in boiling water 
taken warm, will often cure strangury and kindred affec- 
tions, as will that made from diied pumpkin-seed. 

Tansy and rue teas ai-e useful in cases of coHc, as are 
fennel seeds steeped in brandy. 

A tea of damask-rose leaves, dry or fresh, will usuaUy 
Bubdue any simple case of summer complaint in infants. 

Mint tea, made from the green leaves, crushed in cold 
or hot water and sweetened, is palatable and heahng to thi 
Btomach and bowels. 

Mint Julep. »{« 

Some sprigs of green mint, slightly bruised in a tumblei 
with a teaspoon. Put in a generous teaspoonful cf wbitf 



522 COMMON SENSK 

sugar ; add gradually, stirring and rubbing lightly, enougl 
water to fill tlie glass three-q\iarters of the way to the top 
Fill up -with pounded ice ; stir hard ; pour into a largei 
glass that you may shake up well, and put in two table- 
spoonfuls fine brandy. 

This is called a " hail-storm julep." 

Eau Sucr6, »{« 

Dissolve three or four lumps of loaf sugar in a glass of 
ice-water, and take a teaspoonful every few minutes for a 
" tickling in the throat," or a hacking cough. Keep it ice- 
cold. 

A simple, but often an efficacious remedy. 



THE NUKSERY. 

All food intended for infants should be very thoroughly 
tooked. The numerous varieties of farinaceous substances — 
biscotine, farina, rice-flour, arrowroot, etc., however nourish- 
ing may be their properties when rightly prepared, are harsh 
and drastic when underdone. Unless you have a nursa 
whom you know for yourself to be faithful and experienced, 
always superintend the cooking of baby's food. It can dc 
no harm — it may prevent much — if you examine it every 
day to see that it is right as to quality and quantity. Do 
not aim at variety in this branch of your profession. Con- 
fine a child under three years of age to a very limited bill 
of fare. His stomach is too delicate an organ to be tam- 
pered with. Let milk — scalded or boiled, as a rule — be 
the staple, mixed with farina, barley, or something of the 
»ort. Let biTn mimch Graham bread and light crackeri 
freely. BemoYS far from him hot bread and griddle-cak)3B 



THE NUESEST. 523 

Wlien lie has cut his carnivorous teeth, Nature says— 
'' This creature wants meat." And Nature's supply is seldom 
iu advance of the demand. If he did not need what the 
teeth are designed to chew, you may be sure they would not 
be given him. Grant him the novel food sparingly and with 
discretion as to kind. Rare beef and well-boiled mutton, 
tender roast or boiled chicken and turkey are safe. With- 
hold fried meats of every description. Do not let him touch 
veal or pork in any shape, ilince the meat very finely to 
save his digestive apparatus all unnecessary work. Mealy 
old potatoes — never new or waxy — young onions, boiled in 
two waters ; fresh asparagus, green peas, and diy sweet po- 
tatoes should sufBce for vegetables, with, of course, rice and 
hominy. For dessert, once in a while, a simple custard, 
« taste of home-made ice-cream, rice and farina puddings, 
»>-raham hasty pudding; the inner part of a well-roasted 
•.pple, and, in their season, ripe peaches and apples, wiU not 
nann him, taken in moderation, if he be well and strong. 

JP(we the fruit always. The skin of an apjjle is as bad for 
him as a bit of your kid gloves woiild be ; that of a grape 
more indigestible than sole-leather Raisins — "skins and 
ftU" — are unfit for anybody to eat. Pulp and pits, they 
are poisonotis for baby. Ditto, pickles, pastry, and pre- 
serves. Ditto, most kinds of cake and all sorts of fruit 
puddings. 

Give him light suppers, and put him to bed early in a 
dark room. He will not grow better in a glare of artificial 
light thaji will your camellias and azalias. 

Always see for yourself that his last waking thoughts are 
pleasant ; that he shuts his eyes at peace -with the world 
and in love with you; that his feet are warm, his slomaci 
easy, and his body not overloaded with blankets and quilts; 
also, that the nursery is clean and freshly aired. Tliese aro 
■setter preBcriptions for sound slumbei than all the o\i 



524 COMMON SENBE. 

wives' fables of the excellent properties of that {wmioioui 
drug — Soothing Synip. 

Farina. »J« 
1 cup hoiling water. 
1 " fresh milk. 

1 large tablespoonful Ilecker's Farina, wet up with ocid 

water. 

2 teaspoonfuls white sugar. 
A pinch of salt. 

Stir the farina into the boiling crater (slightly salted) in 
the fai-ina kettle (i. e., one boiler set within another, the 
latter filled with hot water). Boil fifteen minutes, stirring 
constantly until it is well-thickened. Then add the milk, 
stirring it in gradually, and boil fifteen minutes longer. 
.Sweeten, and give to the child so soon as it is cool enough. 

You may make enough in the morning to last all day; 
warming it up with a little hot milk as you want it. KSep 
in a cold place. Some of the finest children I have evor 
seen were reared upon this diet. Do not get it too sweet, 
and cook it well. Be sure the farina is sweet and dry. 

Bablet. 

It sometimes happens that milk disagrees with a delicate 
infant so seriously that it is necessary to substitute some 
other article of diet for a few days. I have known barley' 
tvaier to be used, in such cases, with great success. 

2 cuj)S boiling water. 

2 tablespoonfiils pearl barley — picked over and washed, 

A pinch of salt. 

2 teaspoonfuls white sugar — not heaping. 

Soak the barley half an hour in a very Hi lie lukewarm 
water, and stir, without draining, into the boiling witer, 



THE NURBEBT. 525 

aslwid very slightly. Simmer one hour, stirring often, and 
stiain before sweetening. 

Arhowtigot. «{« 

1 c«p of boiling water. y 

1 " fresh milk. 

2 teaspoonfuls best Bermuda arrowroot, wet with cold 

water. 

1 small pinch of salt. 

2 even teaspoonfuls white sugar, dissolved in the milk. 

Stir the arrowroot paste into the salted boiling water ; 
irtir and boil five minutes or until it is clear; add the 
sweetened milk, and boil ten minutes, slowly, still stirring. 

If the child has fever, or cannot digest milk, substitute 
hot water for it. It is, however, a dangerous experiment 
to forbid milk altogether for an infant. I should rather 
diminish the quanty}y, putting in, say, one-third or one- 
fourth as much as the receipt names, and filling up with 
boiling water. 

Rice Jelly. «^ 

i Clip whole rice, well-washed and soaked two hours in 
a little warm water ; then added, with the water, to 
that in the kettle. 

3 pints cold water. 

1 small pinch of salt, put into the water. 
Sweeten to taste with loaf sugar. 

Simmer the rice half an hour; then boil until it is a 
BBiooth paste, and the water is reduced one-half. Strain 
through double tarlatan, sweeten, and give to the child. 

Tliis is an admirable preparation for an infant sufiering 
mi\\ weakness of the bowels. If there is no fever, you may 
put one-third part milk, boiled with the rice. Give a ifM 
spoonfuls every hour or half hour. 



526 oouhon sehbe. 

Milk and Bread. ^ 

J- cup boiled milk. 

'1 tablespoonfuls stale Graham bread. 

A very little sugar. 

Crumble the bread into the boiled milk, sweetem, and 
when cool enough, feed to the child with a spoon. 

Wheatekt Grits. »J« 

4 tablespoonfuls grits (cracked wheat) soaked in a littla 
cold water one hour, and then put into the kettle. 
1 quart boiling water. 
1 cup milk. 
A pinch of salt. 

Boil the soaked grits in the quart of water one hour, 
stirring up often; add the milk and boil half an hour 
longer. Sweeten to taste, and if the child is well, poui' 
cream over it. This is designed for cliildren over a yeai 
old. It is slightly cathartic; especially if the milk be 
omitted, and is most useful in regulating the bowels. When 
thia can be done without drugs, it is far better. 

Hominy and Mile. >J« 

\ cup small hominy. 

1 scant quart of cold water. 

Pinch of salt. 

Boil one hour, stirring often. While hot, mix some 
Boft with new nulk, sweeten to taste and feed to baby wiih 
a spoon. 

This is also relaxing to the bowels, and shoiild not bt 
given if the child is disposed to summer complaint. 



the nttrsert. 527 

Graham Hasty Pudding. »J« 

I cup Graham flour, wet up with cold water. 

1 large cup boiling water and same quantity of milk. 

1 saltspoonful of salt. 

Stir the wet flour into the boiling water, slightly salted. 
Boil ten minutes, stirring almost constantly. Add tha 
milk and cook, after it has come again to a boil, ten min- 
utes longer. Give with sugar and milk for breakfast. 

Eaten with cream, nutmeg, and powdered sugar, this ia 
a good plain dessert for grown people as well as cliildren. 

Rice Flour Hasty PudDing 

Is made as above, substituting two heaping tablespoon 
fills rice flour for the Graham. 

Milk Porridge. 

1 tablespoonful Indian meal 1 wet to a paste with cold 

1 " white flour ) water. 

2 cups boiling water. 
2 " milk. 

A good pinch of salt. 

Boil the paste in the hot water twenty minutes ; add the 
milk and cook ten minutes more, stirring often. 
Eat with sugar and milk, stirred in while hot. 

Musii AND Milk. 

1 cup Indian meal, wet up with cold water. 

2 quarts cold water. 
Salt to taste. 

BoU twj hours ; stirring often with a wooden spooo as 
a stick. 

To be eaten hot with milk and sugar. 



528 ooMMOir sestsb. 



CONDEKSED MiLK. 

This is perhaps the safest substitute for the " good milk 
&OQ1 one caw," which few mothers in town san procure. 
Keep the can in a cool place and mix according to direo 



SUNDRIES. 
Cleaning Pots, Kettles, and Tins. 

Boil a double handful of hay or grass in a new iron pot; 
before attempting to cook with it ; scrub out with soap and 
sand ; then set on full of fair water, and let it boil half an 
nour. After this, you may use it without fear. As soon 
»s you empty a pot or frying-pan of that which has been 
^oked in it, fill with hot or cold water (hot is best) and 
aet back upon the fire to scald tlioroughly. 

New tins should stand near the fire with boiling water 
in them, in wldch has been dissolved a spoonful of soda, 
for an hour ; then be scoured inside with soft soap ; after- 
ward riused with hot water. Keep them clean by rubbing 
with sifted wood-ashes, or whitening. 

Oopper utensils should be cleaned with brickdust and 
flannel. 

Never set a vessel in the pot-closet without cleanicg and 
wiping it thoroughly. If grease be left in it, it will grow 
roncid. If set aside wet, it is apt to rust. 

Knives. 

Clean with, a soft flannel and Bath brick. If rusty, use 
•rwd-ashiis, rubbed on with a newly cut bit of Irish potato 
Tiiis w^ill i-emove spots when nothinsj else will. Keep yonr 



BUNORIES. 529 

best set wrapped in soft wkite paper ; then in linen, in : 
drawer out of damp and dust. 

Never dip the ivory handles of knives in hot water, 

Silver, 

Wash, after each meal, all that is soiled, in very hot soft 
water, with hard soap. "Wipe hard and quickly on a clean 
towel; then polish with dry flannel. If discolored with 
egg, mustard, spinach, or beans, or by any other means, 
rub out the stain with a stiff toothbrush (used only for this 
purpose), and silver soap. 

For years I have used no other preparation for cleaning 
silver than the Indexical silver soap, applied as I have 
described. After rubbing with a stiff lather made with 
this, wash off with hot water, wipe and polish while hot. 
There is no need for the weekly silver cleaning to be an 
event or a bugbear, if a little care and watchfulness be 
observed after each meal. Silver should never be allowed 
to grow dingy. If Bridget or Chloe will not attend prop- 
erly to this matter, take it in hand yourself. Have your 
own soap-cups — ^two of them — one with common soap, the 
other with a cake of silver soap in the bottom. Have for 
one a mop, for the other a stiff brush — a toothbrush is best. 
Use your softest towels for silver. 

Besides being clean and easy of application, the silver 
soap will not wear away the metal as will whiting or chalk, 
or plate-powder, however finely pulverized. 

China aijd Glass. 

There are few of the minor crooks in the lot of tha 
eareful housewife that cause her more anxiety and more 
discouragement than the attempt to teach domestics how tc 
wadi up dishes. 
23 



680 COMMON SENSE. 

"I've heard that Mrs. is very exact about soma 

things, such as washing up dishes and the likes of tha* 1 '' 
said a woman to me, with an affected laugh, having called 
to apply for the then vacant position of cook in my kitchen. 
She had high recommendations, a whine engrafced upon 
ner native brogue, and spoke of me in the third person— « 
trick of cheap (and bogus) gentiHty that tries my nerves 
and temper to the very marrow of my spine. "I was 

a-saying to myself, as I came along, that Mrs. must 

have been very onlucky in her girls if she had to '■ache 
tliem how to wash up dishes. I always thought that was 
one of the things that came kinder natural to every cook." 

" Mrs. 's" experience goes to prove that the wrong 

way of doing this must "come natural" to the class men- 
tioned, and that Nature is mighty in woman. The fact 
that the right way is noi to pile unrinsed dishes and 
plates in a big pan with a loose bit of soap on top, and 
pour lukewarm water over all ; then with a bit of rag to 
splash said water over each separately, and make another 
pile of them upon the kitchen-table, until the last is drawn, 
reeking with liqiiid grease, sticky and streaming, from the 
now filthy puddle of diluted swiU ; then to rub them lightly 
and leisurely with one towel — be they many or few — is a* 
difficult of comprehension to the scullionly mind as would 
be a familiar lecture upon the pons asinorum. 

Yet the right and only neat method is so simple and 
easy ! RLase the greasy plates, and whatever is sticky with 
sugar or other sweet, in hot water and transfer to a larger 
pan of very hot. Wash glass first ; next silver; then china 
— one article at a time, although you may put several in 
the pan. Have a mop with a handle ; rub upon the soap 
(over which the water should have been poured) until you 
have strong suds ; wash bo-'ih sides of plate and saucei , and 
wipe before putting it out of yoii/r hand. Draining leaves 



BUITOBIEB. 631 

Btieaka which can be felt by sonsitive finger-tips, if tot 
seen. If china is rough to the touch, it is dirty. Hot, 
clean suds, a dry, clean towel, and quick wiping leave it 
bright and shining. Roll your glasses around in the water, 
filling them as soon as they touch it, and you need never 
crack one. A lady did once explain the dinginess of hei 
goblets to me by saying that she was " afraid to put them 
in hot water. It rots glass and makes it so tender ! I 
prefer to have them a little cloudy." This is literally truf 
— that she said it, I mean. Certainly not that a year's soak 
in hot water could make glass tender. 

Washing Windows. 

Dissolve a little washing-soda in the water if thw glasa 
is very dim with smoke or dirt. Do not let it run on the 
sash, but wash each pane with old flannel; dry quickly 
with a soft, clean towel, wiping the corners with especial 
care. Polish with chamois skin, or newspapers rubbed «)ft 
between the hands. 

To Cleau Carpets. 

Sprinkle the carpet with tea leaves ; sweep well ; tboM 
use soap and soft, warm water for the grease and dirt spott 
This freshens up old carpets marvellously. Rub the wa'-f 
spots diy with a clean cloth. 

To Clean Paint. 

Scour with a flat brush, less harsh than that nsed for 
floors, using warm soft suds; before it dries wash off with 
old Bannel dipped in clean cold water, and wipe dry with a 
linen towel or cloth. Go thi-ough the whole process quickly, 
Gxti, the water may not dry upon and streak the paint. 



S33 OOMMOM SEWSK. 



To Keep Wooi.Eifs. 



Beat out all the dust, and Run for a day; shake ^erJ 
hard ; foil neatly and pin — or, what is better, sew up — closely 
in muslia or linen cloths, putting a small lump of gum 
eamphor in the centre of each bundle. Wrap newspapers 
about all, pinning so as to exclude dust and insects. 

These are really all the precautions necessary for the 
gafety even of furs, if they are strictly obeyed. But you 
may set moths at defiance if you can, in addition to these, 
secure, as a packing-case, a whiskey or alcohol barrel but 
lately emptied, and still strongly scented by the liquor. 
Have a close head, and fit it in neatly. Set away in the 
garret, and think no more of your treasures until next 
winter. 

To Wash Doubtful Calicoes. 

Put a teaspoonful of sugar of lead into a pailful of 
water, and soak fifteen minutes before washing. 

To Clean a Cloth Coat. 

Kub soap upon the wristbands and collar ; dip them in 
boiling-hot suds — and scrub mth a stiff clean brush. 
Treat the grease and dirt spots in the same way. Change 
the suds for clean and hot as it gets dirty. Wet and brnsh 
the whole coat, the right way of the cloth, with fresh suds, 
when you have scoured out the spots, adding three or four 
tablespoonfuls of alcohol to tlie water. Stretch the sleeves, 
pocket-holes, wristbands, and collar into shape, folding the 
deeves as if they had been ironed, also the collar. Lay 
apon a clean cloth, spread upon tlie table or floor, and let 
it get perfectly dry in the shade, turning over three or fooF 
iimes without disturbing the folds. 



STJKDBrES. 532 

To Olban Silk. 

To Remove Grease Spots. — Scrape Venetian or French 
chalk fiae; moisten to a stiff paste with soap-suds; make ii 
into flat cakes by pressing between two boai'ds, and dry in 
the sun or oven. Keep these for use. When you need 
them, scrape one to powder and cover the spot with it, lay- 
ing the silk upon a fine clean linen or cotton cloth. Lay 
two or three folds of tissue-paper upon the ch.alk, and 
press it with a hot iron for a minute or more, taking care 
it does not touch the silk. Baise the paper and scrape otf 
the grease with the chalk. Split a visiting-card, and rub 
the place where the spot was, with the inside, to restore the 
l\istre. The silk should be pressed on the wrong side. 

If the spot be discovered at once, simply rub the wrong 
side hard with powdered French chalk, and leave it to weai 
off. 

To Wash SUk—Mxs. together 

2 cups cold water. 
1 tablespoonful honey, 
1 " soft soap. 

1 wineglass alcohol. 

Shake up well ; lay the silk, a breadth at a time, on a 
table, and sponge both sides with this, rubbing it well in ; 
shake it about well and up and down in a tub of cold water; 
flap it as dry as you can, but do not wring it. Hang it by 
the edges, not the middle, until fit to iron. Iron on the 
wrong side while it is very damp. 

Black and dark or sober-colored silks may be sucooBft- 
fully treated it this way. 

To Smooth Wrinkled Silk. — Sponge on the right aide 
mth very weak gum-arabic water, and iron on the wrtng 
side. 



534 COMMON 6EI98Z. 

To Kenew Wbinkled Cbapk. 

Stretch over a basin of boiling water, holding it smooth, 

hut not tight, over the top, and shiftiug as the steam fairljj 

penetrates it. Fold, while damp, in the original creases^ 

and lay under a heavy book or board to dry. It wiU look 

. idiuost as well as new. 

To Kestoke the Pile op Velvet. 

If but slightly pressed, treat tis you would crape. Steam 
on the right side until heated through. If very badly 
crushed, wet on the wrong side ; let an assistant hold a hot 
iron, bottom upward, and pass the wet side of the velvet 
Blowly over the flat surface — a sort of upside-down ironing. 
'WTien the steam rises thickly through to the right side, it 
win raise the pile with it. Dry without handling. 

To CoRL Tumbled FEATnERS. 

Hold over the heated top of the range or stove, not near 
enough to burn ; withdraw, shake them out, and hold them 
over it again until curled. 

To Cleas Straw Matting. 

Wash with a cloth dipped in clean salt and water ; then 
wipe dry at once. This prevents it from turning yeUow. 

To Wash Lawn or Thik Muslin. 

Boil two quarts of wheat-bran in six quarts, or more, of 
water, half an hour. Strain through a coarse towel and 
tni-x in the water in which the muslin is to be washed. Use 
no soap, if you can help it, and no starch. Rinse lightly in 
fair water. This preparation both cleanses and stiffens the 
lawn. If you can tonveniently, take out all the gathers 
The skirt should always be ri[^)ped from the waist. 



eiTHIyBIES. 68& 

To Wash Wooljins. 

Wash in clean, hot soap suds ; rinse out in clear, hot 
* iter, and shake out the wet without passing through th« 
wringer. Worsted dress-goods should never be wrung when' 
washed. 

To Wash White, Lace Edging. 

Have a quart bottle covered with Hnen, stitched 
smoothly to fit the shape. Begin at the bottom and wind 
tlie lace about it, basting fast at both edges, even the 
minutest point, to the linen. Wash on the bottle, soaping 
^t well, rinse by plunging in a pail of fair water, and boil aa 
/ou would a white handkerchief, bottle and aU. Set iu the 
\iot sun to dry. When quite dry, clip the basting-threads, 
and use the lace without ironing. If neatly basted on, it 
•* iU look nearly as well as new — if not quite. 

Black Lace. 

^ cup rain water, or very soft spring water. 

1 teaspoonful borax. 

1 tablespoonful spirits of wine. 

SfjUeeze the tumbled rusty lace through this four times, 
then rinse in a cup of hot water in which a black kid glova 
has been boiled. Pull out the edges of the lace until almost 
dry ; then press for two days between the leaves of a heavy 
book. 

To Sponge Black Worsted Deesses. 

Sponge on the right side with a strong tea made of Jlff^ 
kaifea, and iron on the wrong. 

This process i-estores lustre and crispness to alpaca 
bombazine, etc. 



586 COMMON SENSE. 

To Olkan Very Dikty Black Dresses. 

2 parte soft water to 1 part alcohol, or if there be palnl 
spots upon the stuff, spirits turpentiae. Soap a spong* 
well, dip in the mixture, and rub, a breadth at a time, on 
both sides, stretching it upon a table. Iron on the wrong 
nide, or that which is to be inside when the stuff is made up. 
Sponge off with fair water, hot but not scalding, before you 
iron. Iron while damp. 

To Eemovb Stains fkom Mabblb. 

Make a mortar of unslacked lime and very strong lyo, 
Cover the spot thickly with it and leave it on for six weeks. 
Wash it off perfectly clean, and rub ha/rd with a brush dip- 
ped in a lather of soap and water. Polish with a smooth, 
hard brush. 

Iron Monuo 

Is as nearly ineradicable as it is possible for stain to be. 
Try moistening the part injured with ink, and while this 
Is wet, nib in muriatic acid diluted with five times its 
weight of water, I have heard that the old and new stain 
can sometimes be removed together by this operation. 

Mildew 

Is likewise obstinate. If anything will extract it, it is 
lemon-juice mixed with an equal weight of salt, powdered 
starch, and soft soap. Hub on thickly and lay upon tlie 
grass in the hot sun ; renewing the application two or three 
(times a day until the spot fades or comes out. 

I have also used salt ■>»«■( with tomato-juice, often re- 
newed, laying the article s-'ained upon the grass. Some 
times the Btaii> was taken out, sometimes not. 



BUBDIUfiE. 637 

Ink. 

Wtile the stains are yet wet upon the carpet, spongt 
them with skim-milk tliorougldy. Then wash out the milk 
vith a clean sponge dipped again and again in fair w^ater, 
cold. Exchange this presently for warm ; then rub dry 
with a cloth. If the stain is upon any article of clothing, 
or table, or bsd linen, wash in the milk well, afterward in 
the water. 

Dry ink stains can be removed from white cloth by 
oxalic acid, or lemon-juice and salt. 

Staiks of Acids and Alkalies. 

Treat acid stains with hartshorn ; alkaUne with acida, 
For instance, if the color be taken out of cloth by whito- 
wash, wash with strong vinegar. 

Grease Spots. 

1 quart boiling water. 
1 02. pulverized borax. 
J oz. of gum camphor. 

Shake up well and bottle. It is excellent for removing 
grease spots from woolens. 

Cure for Burns. 

One-third part linseed oil. 
Two-thirds Ume water. 

Shake up well ; apply and wrap in soft linen. 

Until you can procure this keep the part covered with 
wood-toot mixed to a soft paste with lard, or, if jou hav« 
not these, with common molasses. 
23* 



538 COMMON 8KMBK. 



To Stop the Flow op Blood. 

Bind the cut with cobwebs and brown sugar, pressed os 
like lint. Or, if you cannot procure these, with the fin* 
dust of tea. When the blood ceases to flow, apply laudai« 
num. 

To Relieve AstHiMA. 

Soak blotting or tissue paper in st/rong saltpetre water. 
Dry, and burn at night in your bed-room. 
1 hnow this to be an excellent prescription. 



Antidotes to Poison. 

For amy poison swallow instantly a glass of cold watei 
with a heaping teaspoonful of common salt and one of 
ground mustard stirred in. This is a speedy emetic. 
'"Vhen it has acted, swallow the whites of two raw eggs. 

If you have taken corrosive sublimate take half a 
liozen raw eggs besides the emetic. If laudanum, a cup 
of very strong coflfee. If arsenic, first the emetic, then 
balf a. cup of sweet oil or melted lard. 

Cologne Water. (J?^m«.) (JVb. 1.) 

1 drachm oU lavender. 

1 " " bergamot. 

2 " « lemon. 

2 " " rosemary. 
60 drops tincture of musk. 
8 " oil of cinnamon. 
8 " " cloves. 

1 pint of alcohoL 



SCI^DItXES. 5S9 

GoLoowE Water, {N'o. 2.) 

60 drops oil of lavender. 
6C " " bergamot. 
60 « « lemon. 
60 " orange-flower water. 
1 pint of alcohol. 

Cork and shake weU. 

Habd Soap. 

6 lbs. washing soda. 
3 " unslaked lime. 

Pour on i gallons boiling water. 

Let it stand until perfectly clear, then drain oB, Fai 
in 6 lbs. clean fat. 

BoU until it begins to harden — about two hours — stir- 
ring most of the time. 

While boiling, thin with two gallons of cold water, 
which you have poured on the alkaline mixture after 
draining off the four gakons. ItMa must also settle clear 
before it is drawn off. Add it when there is danger of 
Jioiling over. 

Try the thickness by cooling a little on a plate. Put 
in a handfiU of salt just before taking from the fire. 
Wet a tub to prevent sticking ; turn in. the soap and let 
it stand until solid. Cut into bars ; put on a board and 
let it dry. 

This will make about forty pounds of nice soap ; much 
better for washing (when it has dried out for two or thre« 
months) than yellow turpentine soap. 



&40 cxjmmon benbe. 

Bab Soap. 

Buy a box at a time ; cut into small squares and la^ 
upon the garret-floor to dry for several weeks before it il 
tijsed. 

Sorr Soap. 

10 lbs. grease. 
6 " soda (washing). 
8 gallons hot water. 

Let it stand for several days luitil the grease is eatei 
Kp. If too_ thick, add more water. Stir every day. If 
mmd-ashes are used instead of soda, boil the miztara. 



THE END. 



INDEX. 



FASB 

rUSILIAB. TALK.. 13 

SOXIPS. 27 

Vegetable Soups 88 

Asiaragiis sonp (white) 30 

" " {green) 31 

Bean " (dried) 29 

Bean and com soup 80 

Com " 84 

Graham " 33 

Green Pea " (Ifo. 1). . 28 

" " (iTo. 2). . 28 

Gumbo, or okra " 33 

Pea and tomato " 29 

Pea (split amd dried) sonp. . 1^ 

Potato " .. 33 

Tomato (v/inter) " . . 31 

" (mmmer) " . . 31 

Turnip " .. 32 

Meat Soups 35 

Serf soup 'I la Julienne. ... 35 

" (brown) 37 

Brown gravj soap 41 

riiicken " 42 

'•ihht " 10 

i'lr^- or rabliit " ;. 41 

Muck turtle " 30 

Mutton or lamb broth 38 

Oxtail sonp 4 t 



Veal and macaroni soap 3fl 

Veal and sago " .... 44 

Vermicelli " 38 

Venison " .... 43 

Fish Soups 45 

Catfish Boup 47 

Clam " 46 

Eel " 47 

Green turtle " 48 

Lobster " 48 

Oyster " (JUTo. 1) 45 

" " (iVo. 2).... 45 

FISH 50 

Bass (««a) boiled 63 

" fried 63 

Catfish, stewed 67 

" fried 07 

" chowder 67 

Chowder, clam 83 

(No. I) 08 

(No. 2) 69 

Cotlfish balls 51 

" (freuli), boiled 50 

(sail). hoileil 51 

unci (xitiitci Slew ... 58 
" (siM), stewed wi(h 

esprs 53 

Eels, fried 6S 



542 



mi)Ex. 



PAOE 

Belfl, stewed 68 

Fiph, mayonnaise of 64 

Hiilibut, baked 54 

" boiled 64 

' devilled 05 

steak 55 

Mackerel (fi'eali), boilsd 53 

" (saJK), broUed 64 

" {fresh), » 53 

Perch and other pan-fish. ... 66 

Kokerel, fried 66 

" bated with cream . 66 

Rockfish and river bass 51 

Salmon, baked 67 

" boiled 56 

" (fresh), pickled ... 58 

" (salt), " ... 59 

" {sviiokecC), brotted.. 60 

" steak 57 

Salmon-trout, baked with 

cream 04 

Salmon-trout, boiled 65 

" fried 05 

Shad, baked 63 

" (/res^i), boiled 60 

" (saii), " 61 

" (fresh), broUed 61 

« (salt), " 61 

" fried 61 

Sturgeon, baked 63 

" steak 63 



Shea-Jigh 70 

(Slam chowder 82 

" fritters 81 

" BcaUop 81 

Urab, devilled 71 

" lalod 71 



PASS 

Crabs, soft 71 

Lobster, to boil 70 

" croquettes 71 

« devilled 70 

" salad. (See Salads.) 803 

Oysters, cream on half shell. 73 

" broUed 75 

fried 73 

" fritters 74 

" omelette 76 

" pdte 79 

" pie 76 

" pickled 77 

" raw 79 

" roast 78 

" scalloped 74 

" steamed 79 

" stewed 78 

Scallops 81 

Terrapin or turtle 73 

POULTRY 88 

Chicken, boiled 88 

" broiled 90 

" fricassee (brown). , '89 

" » (white).. 88 

" fried {JVb.1) 90 

" " (No. 2). 90 

" and ham 93 

Chicken-pie (baked) 92 

" pot-pie 91 

" pudding 93 

" roast 87 

Ducks, roast OB 

" stewed 94 

Duck, cold, to use np 94 

Goose-pie 9fl 

" roast 96 



DO) EX. 



543 



FAOB 

,. . 95 
97 

, .. 98 

... 97 

,. . 97 

rnrkey boiled 85 

" ragfifttol 87 

" roast 84 

" BoaUop of 80 



Qninea-fowl, roast. 
Pigeons, broiled . . . 

Pigeon-pie 

Pigeons, roast 

" stewed. . . 



MEATS. 



98 



Beif. 98 

Bee/ d la mode 101 

" breakfiist stew of 103 

" (corned), boUed J07 

" hashed 104 

'* heart, stewed 106 

" (diied) 107 

Beef-steak 99 

" and onions 101 

" pie 104 

Beef, roast 98 

" tongue, boiled 107 

" to com 106 

" roast, with Yorkshire 
pudding 99 

Beef-pie, potato-crust 105 

Mutton and LaTnb 108 

Hiitton d la venison 108 

" boUed -. . 109 I 

" orlambchop 110 

" ■' cutlets.baked 111 j 

Mnttos-haa Ill | 

" or lamb rechauffe. . . 112 
" " roast 108J 

MutlGu-stow 110, 



PAGl 

Veal 113 

Calf's head in a mould 121 

" scalloped 119 

" stewed 119 

Calf a brains, croquettes of. . 134 

" Uver, fried 185 

" " roast 124 

" " stewed 135 

Imitation pdte de foie gra,s. . 136 

Sweetbreads, broiled 120 

" fried 120 

" roasted 181 

" stewed 120 

Veal, breast of (roast) 113 

" chops 115 

" cutlets <ifo Main tenon. 133 

" cutlets (plain) 114 

" fiUet of (roast) 114 

" jeUied 121 

" loin of (roast).. 113 

" marbled 127 

" minced 133 

" olives with oysters 133 

" pa,t6 118 

" pie 115 

" shoulder of (roast).. .. 114 

Veal steak 115 

" stewed 117 

Veal, knuckle of (stewed).. 117 

Pork 128 

Brawn (iVo. 1) 144 

" (No. 3) 144 

Chine, roast 131 

Chops 134 

Ham, to cure 147 

" baked 149 

<> barbecued 15C 



544 



IKDEX. 



PAOR 

Hani, boUed 148 

" broiled 150 

" glazed 148 

" fried 151 

" roast 149 

" sandwiches 151 

" and chicken sandwich- 
es 151 

" and chicken pie 153 

" and eggs 153 

" steamed 148 

Lard 142 

Leg of pork, roast 130 

Loin " " 131 

Pig's head, roast 135 

Pig's " with Hver and 

heart 136 

Pig, roast (whole) 132 

Pork-steak 134 

" stewed 185 

Pot-pie of pork 138 

" Cheshire 138 

Pork, to pickle (No. 1) 145 

" " (M. 2) 146 

" and heans 153 

Pudding, pork and pease. .. . 153 

Bpare-rib, roast 131 

Sausage, Bologna (cooked). . 142 
" " ^uncooked) 141 

Sausage (No. 1) 139 

" (No. 2) 140 

" (No. 3) 140 

Saveloys 145 

Souse, or- head-cheese 137 

Boose of pig's feet and ears 136 

COMl'AIfY 154 

SAKE 100 



Venison. 160 

Cutlets of venison , , , . 164 

Fawn, roast 166 

Ham — venison 167 

Hash " 164 

Haunoh " 161 

Neck " 163 

Pasty " 165 

Sausage " 1C8 

Shoulder. " of, roast 163 

" " of, stewed... 163 

Steak ■ " 163 

BabMU or Hares 108 

Barbecued rabbit 171 

Fried " 171 

Fricassee of rabbit (brown) . . 170 
" " (white)... 170 

Larded rabbit 171 

Pie of rabbit 172 

Babbit roast 169 

" stewed with onions . . 169 

Squirrels 172 

Broiled squirrel 174 

Brunswick stew 173 

Ragout of squirrel 173 

Pheasants., partridges, ^uaili, 
grouse, etc 174 

Grouse, broEed , 17E 

" roast 174 

" " withbaocn 17S 

Quails broiled ITS 

" roast 174 

" " with ham 178 



INDEX. 



54S 



PAUS 

Qnaa-|ie 177 

Pheasant and paitiidge, roast 174 

Pie of game 176 

Salmi of game 175 

WUd ducks 178 

'= " roast 178 

• " Btewed 179 

VS ild pigeon pie 178 

" " Btewed 177 

Wild turkey 179 

Smattbirds 180 

Game, to keep from taint jig 182 
Ortolans, reed-birds, rail, and 

sora 182 

Salmi of woodcock or snipe. 182 

Snipe, roast 180 

Woodcock, roast 181 

" broUed 181 

SAUCES FOR MEAT AND 
FISH. 183 

Anchovy sauce 187 

Apple " 191 

Asparagus " 191 

Bread " 188 

Butter, to brown 192 

Cauliflower sauce 190 

Crab sauce _. . . 180 

Cranberry sauce 193 

Drawn batter (iVo. 1) 183 

" " {No. 2). 184 

" ' {No. 3) 184 

Egg sani e 184 

Flonr, to brown 192 

M?iitro d'hotel sauco 189 

Mint " 189 



PAOI 

Mushroom sauce , 190 

Onion " 189 

Oyster " 18« 

Peach " 101 

Sauce for boiled or baked fish 185 

" lobster 187 

White celery sauce 188 

" sauceforfish 180 

CATStTPS AND FliAVOEED 
VINEGARS 193 

A good store sauce 199 

Celery vinegar 198 

Elderberry catsup 199 

"Ever-ready" catsup 197 

Horse-radish " 200 

" scraped 193 

Imitation Worcestershire 

sauce , . 195 

Lemon catsup 198 

Made mustard 193 

Mock capers 198 

Mushroom catsup 194 

Onion vinegar 199 

Oyster catsup 19f[ 

Pepper vinegar J» 2(Hl 

Tomato catsup. . . 19(1 

Walnut " 194 

SALADS 200 

Cabbage salad, or cold slaw. 206 

Celery " 207 

Chicken " 208 

Lettuce " 204 

Lobster " 20::! 

Mockcrab 208 

S/almon salad 201 



U6 



UfUBX. 



PAGE 

Byviucy Smith's salad dress- 
ing 201 

Snminei salsid 205 

lomato " 206 

Water oressea 205 

VEGETABLES 310 

Artichokes 243 

Aspara^^, boiled , . . . . 336 

" in ambush 327 

" and eggs 337 

Beans, batter, or Lima 339 

" (dried) 339 

" French, string or 

"snap" 238 

" kidney, and other 

small 239 

Beets, boiled 339 

" stewed 240 

Broccoli and Brussels sprouts 333 

Cabbage, boiled 318 

" fried 331 

" ladies' 320 

Cabbage and bacon 319 

" sprouts, or "col- 
lards',' 220 

* stuffed 319 

Carrots, boiled 237 

" mashed 238 

" stewed 237 

Cauliflower, boUed 233 

" BcaUoped 323 

" stewed 233 

Calery 246 

Ojsm igrem), boiled 233 

" " fritters, or 

cakes 335 

»• " pudding 334 



Com (grem), roatit 33d 

" " stewed S35 

" " and tomatoes. 233 
" " and beans (buo- 

cotash) 284 



Cucum^beis, fried . 



333 

" raw 233 

" stewed 333 

Cymblrngs (summer squash). 343 

E^-plant, fried 336 

" stuffed 337 

Hominy croquettes. 349 

" boiled 348 

" baked 349 

" fried 248 

Macaroni d la creme 253 

" baked : 351 

" stewed, Italian 

style 251 

Mushrooms 344 

" baked 246 

" broUed 346 

" stewed 345 

Okra 247 

Onions,, bated 239 

" stewed 238 

" Btufeed 239 

Parsnips, boiled 340 

" buttered 341 

" fried 240 

" fritters 241 

" mashed 841 

Peas {green), fritters or caike« 236 

" green ^36 

Poke-stalks 844 

Potatoes, baked. .... 213 

" boiled with skins on 310 

" boiled without " 21 C 

(»«w),boUed 81» 



GTDES:. 



641 



PotaroeR, browned {wMe) .. 216 
" " (mashed). 216 

" broUed 217 

" d la oreme 215 

CtKato t»ikes " 217 

" aroquettes 214 

Potatoes, fried , 214 

" mashed 311 

" maltre d'h6tel. . . . 214 

Potato-puff 213 

" ribbon 215 

" scaUop 210 

Potatoes (stewed for break- 
fast) 213 

Potatoes (old), stewed 212 

" stuffed 215 

" (sweet), boiled 217 

" " fried 218 

" " roast 317 

Pumpkin, baked 243 

," stewed 243 

Radishes 247 

Eice, loiled 250 

" croquettes. 249 

Salsify (or oyster-plant), 

fried 330 

Salsify (or oyster-plant), 

stewed 236 

Sea-kale, boiled 341 

" stewed 243 

Squash (summer) 243 

" (winter) 243 

(Uaeikiant 231 

Spinach d la erkna 325 

" boiled 224 

Saocotaah. . . 234 

TomstoeB, baked 231 

" broiled 231 

" raw 332 



PASI 

Tomatoes, scalloped 23Q 

" and com scaUop. . 231 

stewed 230 

" stuffed and baked. 280 

Turnips, boiled (whole) 834 

" mashed 22A 

EGGS 352 

Eggs au lit (in bed) 257 

" baked 356 

Egg-baskets. 258 

Eggs, boUed 253 

" breaded 355 

" Chinese bird's nest of. 353 

" devilled 358 

" dropped or poached, .. 354 

" fried , 355 

" fricasseed 355 

" with ham 2.)4 

" poached d to oreme. . . . 254 

" " with sauce... 357 

" scalloped 257 

" scrambled 256 

" upon toast 357 

Egg-balls for soup 360 

Omelette, asparagus 360 

" aitcc fines herbes. .. 360 

" cauliflower. 360 

" cheese 261 

" plain 359 

" with ham,chicken, 

or tongue 359 



Sweet omelettes. . . 



201 



Omelette, apple 263 

" jelly 363 

' ooufflee, baked, . 301 
" " fried... B83 



54S 



DTDKX. 



FAOE 

MUX, BVTTEB, CHEESE, 
ErO 263 

Bonny clabber, or " loppered 

milk" 265 

Butter (to make) 263 

Cheese 266 

Cottage cheese 268 

Cream " 868 

Junket, or mountain custard 266 

Rennet 265 

Thickened milk 269 

BREAD 569 

Bread, Boston brown 280 

" (famUy), brown 279 

" " white 277 

Butter-milk bread 282 

Bread, milk 282 

" rice 283 

" rye 281 

Biscuit, Graham 287 

" minute 287 

Mrs. K'b {soda).... 286 

" risen 284 

" potato 286 

Crackers, butter 290 

Crnmpete (plain) 291 

" (sweet) 391 

Muffins, Belle's 294 

" buttennUk. 292 

' Charlotte 293 

« cteam 292 

» Graham 291 

« hominy 294 

" queen 292 

" "Mother's" 293 

» rice 293 



PowdeiB, baking 879 

Rolls, French (JVo. 1) 283 

" " {M.2) 284 

Rusk(diied) 389 

" (sweet) .,, 28? 

SaUy Lunn (JVo. 1) ....... , 285 

" " (M. 2) 285 

Sponge for bread (potato) . . 276 

" " " (plain)... 276 

Wafers 290 

Wheatlets, Graham 288 

Yeast cakes 275 

" (hop) 273 

" (potato) 274 

" (self-working) 274 

Corn bread 294 

Ash-cake 301 

Batter-bread, or egg-bread. . 309 

Corn-bread, nonpareil 297 

" risen (iVb. 1)... 897 

" " (Jfo. 2)... 300 

" steamed 298 

Crumpets, Indian-meal 298 

Johnny-cake 29? 

" Aunt Jenny's... 299 

Muf&ns, Indiau-meai 297 

Pone 300 

" fried 301 

Oriddle-cakes, waffiet, eta 801 

Cakes, Auntie's (loitTiout epgs) 303 

" buckwheat 301 

" batter (risen) 301 

" cream 805 

" flannel 308 

" " (egglese).... 30i 



INDEZ. 



549 



CUcM Qiaham 803 

" Grandpa's favorite.., 303 

" hominy 804 

" rice 304 

" velvet 804 

F!ftj<iacka corn-meal. 302 

Waflles, "Mother's" 30G 

" rice(iVo. 1) 806 

" " (No. 2) 306 

" " and corn-meal. 307 

" risen 305 

•' quick 306 

Sfutrtcake, etc 307 

Buns, Easter ("hot cross"). 809 

" plain 310 

•ihortcake, Grandma's 309 

" Scotch 309 

" strawberry 308 

•' Sunnybank 307 

CAKE. 

Almond cake 830 

Black cake 339 

Caramel cake 832 

Chocolate cake 333 

' ' caramels 835 

" Eclairs 825 

Ocooannt cake 816 

" " (Rosie's) 316 

" cakes (small) 318 

" cake (loaf) 317 

«' cones 318 

OuTD -starch cake 338 

tlieaui cake 815 

Dover " 331 

BUie'» " 326 



FAas 

French cake 320 

Fruit " 830 

Gold " 331 

Huckleberry cake 833 

JeUy " ....... .. 818 

Lady " (2fb. 1) . 330 

" " (JSTo. 2)... 331 

Lee " 318 

Lemon " {No. 1)... 320 

" " (M. 2)... 330 

Lincohi " 838 

Marble " 323 

Marbled " 334 

Martha's " 314 

Mrs. M.'scup " 315 

Mrs. M.'s sponge-cake 326 

Macaroons, almond 332 

Nut-cake 331 

"One, two, three, four" cake 

(cocoauut) 817 

Pound cake {No. 1) 327 

" " (No. 3) 828 

SUver " 332 

Sister Mag's cake 33.1 

Sponge " 336 

Washington " 328 

White " 334 

White Mountain cake. 819 

ImTig 813 

Almond icing , 311 

Chocolate icing , 325 

Plain icing 313 

SmaU Cakes, OookUt, e$e, , 334 

Boston cream cakes. . . ., , 348 
Cakes, bread ...346 



550 



raoEX. 



Cahea, currant 340 

" New Year's 335 

" email sugar 334 

" {drop), epojige 340 

Oookies, Mrs. B.'s 334 

" coriander 336 

" molasses 336 

» "Mother's" 335 

" rice-flour 336 

Jslmllejcs, Annie's 343 

" Aunt Margaret's... 340 

" Katie's 341 

" "Mother's" 341 

Doughnuts, quick 342 

" risen 342 

Gi;\ger snaps (JVo. 1) 337 

" " (JVo. 2) 337 

" " (No. 3) 337 

Jumbles, almond 339 

" Aunt Margaret's... 338 

" lemon 338 

Mis. M.'s 339 

" ring 338 

Lady's fingers 340 

Macaroons, almond 332 

Nougat 349 

Wafers (sweet) 347 

Oingerbread 843 

Gingerbread fruit 346 

" loaf (iVo. 1). .. . 344 

" " (Wo. 2). . . . 345 

plain 344 

" soft 343 

" spiced 345 

" sponge 343 

" Bogar . 346 



PASl 

PIES 348 

Apple pie (JTo. 1) 857 

" " (No. 2) 358 

Blackberry pie 368 

Cherry " 361 

Coooanut " (No. 1} 364 

" "(No. 2) 364 

Crust for pies (iVo. 1) 350 

" " " (No. 2) 353 

" " " transparent... 85c 

Custard pie 367 

" apple pie. 358 

" chocolate pie 365 

" corn-starch pie. . . . 366 

" coooanut " 365 

" peach " . . . . 358 

Huckleberry pie 368 

Lemon pie (No. 1) 361 

" " (No. 2) *... 361 

" " (No. 3) 362 

" cream pie 362 

Meringue a^ple - pie (and 

peach) 358 

Mince-meat, apple, for pies.. 35ft 

Mince pie (No. 1) 354 

" " (No. 2) 354 

Mock mince-meat 858 

Orange pie 862 

Paste, French puff 852 

" puff 353 

Poach pie 367 

Pippin " 359 

Potato " Irish 360 

" " sweet (JTo. 1)... . 360 
" " " (No.2).. .. 360 

Plum " 368 

Pumpkin pie (No. 1) , 859 

" (No.2) 358 



mDBX. 



55! 



PASI 

Raepbcrry pie 368 

Eipe gooseberry pie 368 

Ecabarb * " 370 

Squaah " 359 

Strawberry " 369 

Tarts. 

Tart, chocolate 363 

" cream raspbeny 369 

" cranberry 369 

" currant 368 

" currant and raspber- 
ry 868 

" damson 868 

" green gooseberry 368 

" lemon , 363 

'/artlets, orange 363 

" rhubarb 370 

SERVANTS 870 

PUDDINGS 383 

Baked Puddings 883 

Alice's pudding 893 

Apple, pudding, baked 384 

" dumplings " 388 

" batter jjuddiug o86 

" m6ringue " 384 

" and plum " 886 

" sweet " 385 

" and tapioca pudding.. 387 

Arrowroot pudding. 390 

Rattej pudding (No. 1) 398 

" " (No. 2) 399 

Srssd " 390 

" ej/d batter padding. . . 391 

" faaH " ... 391 



Bread and marmalade pad- 
ding 393 

"BrownBetty" 380 

Coooanut pudding 401 

Corn-starch " 389 

" " meringue pud- 
ding 38B 

Cottage pudding. 399 

Cracker " 39? 

" Dorchester plum pud- 
ding 394 

" fruit pudding 395 

" and jam" 396 

" suet " 394 

Cup puddings 400 

DnmpUngs, apple (baked) . . . 38<) 

" Belle's 4Ca 

German puSs 40<J 

Gooseberry pudding 4C^ 

Lemon " 400 

" meringue pudding. .. 401 
Macaroni " ... 403 

NeapoUtan " ... 403 

Newark " ... 40P 

Orange marmalade " ... 401* 
Pippin " ... 385 

Plum " ... 405 

Queen of puddings 893 

Rhubarb pudding 404 

Rice " (plain)... 396 

" and tapioca puddiag, . 397 

Rice-pudding with eggs. .... 397 

Rice-Dour pudding 3ff1 

Tapioca " 888 

Vermicelli " .^. 408 

Soiled puddings 406 

Berry pudding 408 

Cabinet " 41J 



i)52 



QTDSX. 



PASS 

Oheiiy, or •mrrant pyramid. . 414 

Oumpliug apple (iVf- 1).... 409 

' (iVo.3).... 409 

" imit =uet... ... 411 

'' n(,-e 410 

" raxt 411 

Rye'* pudding 413 

Prait " 410 

" valise puddiijjj 408 

Huokleberry " 408 

Indian meal puddia^ 411 

Orange roley-poley 414 

v^ueeu oil plum-puddi-igi!,. , . 413 

FRlT'i'KRS, PANCAiv«S, 

ETC ;. 415 

Flitters (Nx 1) 415 

" (No. 'iN 416 

" applo 416 

" br^ad. 417 

" jeUy-eaka 418 

•'" jeUy. 417 

Pancakes 418 

" Jelly or jam 419 

Qaeen> toast 418 

SWEET, OR PUDDING 

SAUCES 419 

Bee-Uive sauce 419 

Brandy " (Iiard)... .. 420 
Cabinet pudding sauce . . . . 433 

Ore am sauce {lu/t) 424 

Oream, sweetened (poil). . . . 433 

OiHtard sauce 428 

!? II lit-pudiling sauce 433 

JeUf 'sauce {M 1) 433 

" " (Jfo. 2) 424 



MSI 

Hard sanoe 419 

Lemon" 421 

Mili " • 421 

White wine sauce {Uquid). . . 430 

CUSTARDS, BLANC-MANGE, 
JELLIES AND CREAMS. 4'i5 

Blanc-mange, almond 433 

" arrowroot. 431 

" chocolate 434 

" farina 431 

" Neapolitan . . . 432 

" velvet 434 

Charlotte Russe, chocolate.. 436 
~ " '• gelatine.. . . 437 

" " crei^ 435 

■i" ' " tipsey 435 

r'jeam, Bavarian 428 

•' Spanish 438 

Custard, almond 436 

'• baked 439 

" boiled 435 

" French tapioca. . . . 439 

" quaking 130 

" snow. 428 

Floating Island 427 

Flummery. 437 

Gooseberry fool 438 

Jaune mange 433 

JeUy, oalf's-foot 439 

" bird's nest in 441 ' 

" cider 440 

" orange . 443 

" wine {boikd) ~, 443 

" (cold) no 

" variegated 143 

Meringue, oream 438 

Whipped syUabub, 439 



DTDKX. 



5S3 



PAGE 

ICE-CHEAM AKD OTHER 

ICES 443 

Cnatard, frozen with fruit. . 450 

loe-cteam, ahuond 447 

" chocolate 447 

" coffee 448 

" Italian 448 

• " lemon 449 

" peach. 449 

" pine-apple 441 

" laspberry or 

strawberry. . . . 450 
" self -freezing .... 444 

" tutti frutti 451 

Tee, cherry 452 

currantand raspberry. . . 452 

lemon 451 

orange 452 

" _piue-apple 452 

strawbeny or raspberry. 453 

RIPE FRUIT FOR DESSERT. 

Ambrosia. . ^-. 454 

Apples '. 454 

Blackberries 455 

Currants 556 

" frosted. 456 

Oranges 453 

Peaches and Pears 454 

Raspberries 455 

Salade d' orange. 158 

S^wberries 455 

^U!:SERVES AND FRUIT 

JELLIES 472 

Freserves. 

Apples buked. 468 

34 



Applebutter. ,, 4fi0 

Apples, preserved 459 

" stewed whole , , 469 

Blackberry jam 467 

Cherries, preserved 468 

Crab apple 461 

Damson, preserved 462 

Figs, " 468 

Ginger, " 465 

Gooseberries," 467 

Greengage, " 461 

Lemon. " 463 

Orange marmalade 463 

" peel, preserved 463 

Peach marmalade 458 

" preserves. 458 

Pears, baked 469 

" preserved. 458 

" stewed 463 

Fine-apple marmalade 464 

" preserved. 464 

Quinces, baked. 47C 

Quince cheese 460 

" marmalade 460 

Quinces, preserved 459 

Raspberry jam 467 

Strawberry. 466 

Strawberries, preserved 406 

Tomato, " (green). 407 

" ' " {ripe).. 407 

Unique preserves 462 

Water-melon rind, cr citron. . 404 

Fniit Jellies 478 

Blackberry jelly 474 

Cherry (wild) and currant 

jeUy i72 \ 

Crab-apple jelly UTi 



£51 



DTDBX. 



P^SB 

Cnmuit jelly.. 470 

Fox giape (ffreen) •' . 473 

Grape (Hpe) " . . 473 

Peiui " .. 472 

Quince " .. 473 

Baspbeny and curraot " . . 473 

Strawberry " . 470 

CAJSTNTED FETJITS AND 
VEGETABLES 473 

Berries (bramdied) 478 

" (canned) 474 

Com and tomatoes (canued). 477 

Green com (preserved in salt) 477 

Peaches (brandied) 478 

*' (canned) 475 

Peais (brandied) 478 

" (canned) 475 

Plums (brandied) 478 

" (canned) 476 

Tomatoes " 476 

Oand}/. 

Molasses candy 479 

Sugar " 479 

PICKLES 480 

Beans (green), and radish- 
pods 484 

Cabbage, purple 484 

" yeUow. 483 

Cauliflower, picklec 485 

Cherries, " 490 

iiucQinbers or gherkins, pick- 
led 480 

C^icnmbers, sliced pickle. . . , 486 
Haogoes. melau " . . • . 488 



tAOt 

Mangoes, pepper pickle , . , . 483 
Nasturtii;m seed, " .. 48S 
Onion, " . . . 4S1 

Peache (sweet), " . . . 4S9 
" (unpeeled) " ... 490 
Pear (sweet), " ... 489 

Picklette 491 

Plums, pickled 469 

Tomato (green), pickle 488 

" " soy 488 

" ripe, pickle 488 

Walnut or butternut pickle 485 
Water-melon rind pickle. . . . 486 

DRINKS 491 

Blackberry cordial 496 

" Tinegar 486 

Cafd au bit 493 

Claret punch 501 

Cherry bounce 501 

Chocolate 494 

Cocoa-nibs, or shells 404 

" prepared.....'. 494 

Coffee (JoteZ) 492 

Coflcee 491 

" (without boiling) 493 

Cranberry wine 497 

Currant, " 497 

Egg-nogg 501 

Elderberry wine 496 

Jamaica ginger-beer 498 

Lemonade, or sherbet. 498 

Milk tea for children 484 

Nectar 500 

Orangeade 4P9 

Kaisin wine 49f 

Easpbeny royal 403 

" vinegar 4ee 



INDEX. 



555 



PAOE 

Begect^i ponch 499 

Roman " 500 

Shei-ry cobbler 500 

Strawberry sherbet 499 

" wine 497 

Tea 493 

THE «ICK-UOOM... 503 

Blanc mange, arrowroot. . . . 401 

•' sea-moss 519 

•' tapioax. 518 

Beef -steak and mutto i-phop3 530 

Biscuit or wafers , 530 

Broth, beef and sago 510 

" calf-foot 510 

" chicken 509 

" mntton 509 

" veal and sago 509 

Cnstaid, arrowroot 514 

Dried rusk 520 

Dried flour for teething chil- 
dren 51 3 

Eau Buori^ 533 

Grniel, Indian-meal 513 

" milk and rice 513 

" oatmeal 513 

" sago 511 

Jelly, arrowroot (plain) 510 

" " (wine) 511 

" chicken 516 

" Iceland, or Irish moss 518 

" tapioca 513 

Lemonade, flaxseed 517 

" Iceland, or Irish 

moss 518 

Milk • rice-flour 514 

" aa^go 514 



PJBll 

Hilk, tapioca 51 4 

Mint julep , 621 

Panada 515 

"■ bread, or jelly . . . . 515 
Punch, egg and milk 518 

" milk 518 

Rice, boiled 515 

Sangaree, or parteree 520 

Tea, beef 508 

Teas, herb 531 

Tea, slippery-elm bark 518 

Toast, dry 519 

" milk 519 

Toddy, apple 518 

Water, " 517 

" jelly 517 

" toast 518 

Wine-whey 520 

THENURSiatT. ... 583 

Arrowroot 535 

Barley 524 

Farina 524 

Hominy and milk 536 

Jelly, rice 525 

Milk and bread 536 

" condensed 538 

" porridge ., .. 537 

Mush and milk , . 537 

Pudding, Graham 527 

" rice-flour ., ., 527 

Wheaten grits 52« 

SUNDRIES...... 538 

Antidotes fjr poison 538 

Asthma, to relieve 538 

Blood, to Htop the flow of . . . 538 

Burns, to cure 68? 



556 



INDEX. 





PAGB 


Clesn, carpets to 


. 631 




fias 


" kettles, pots, and tins 528 


" china and glass 


. 529 


" cloth coat, a 


. 533 


'• black worsted dress . 


. 535 


" dirty hlack dress 


. 536 


" pamt 


. 531 


" silk 


533 


" straw matting 


. 534 




nm 


" windows 


. 531 


Ciape, wrinkled, to renew. 


. 434 


Feathers, tumbled, to civl. 


. 534 


Biease-spots, to remc ve . . . 


. 537 


Sosp, bar 


540 


" bacd 


. 538 



PA 

Soap, soft 5 

Stains, acids and alkalies. . 5 

" ink, to remove 5 

" iiou-mould, to re- 
move 5 

' from marble to re- 
move 9 

" mildew, to remove. . 6 

Velvet, to restore the pile of. 5 

Wash, doubtful calicoes to . . 5 

" lace, black to 5 

" " white to 5 

" lawn, or thin muslin 5 
' ' woollens 5: 

Water, cologne {Wo. t) 5i 

(Wo. 2).... 5: 

Woollens, to keep Si 



•• The very best, the most sensible, tt\e most practica., 
l^ie most honest book oa tl:\is matter of getting up good 
dinners, and liviryg iix a decer\t Cl\ristian 'wa.y, tl\at has yet 
rour\d its way ir\ our household." — Walchman and Reflector . 



COMMON SENSE 

In the Household. 

A Manual of Practical Housewifery, 

By MARION HARLANB, 

Author of "Alone," "Hidden Path," "Nemesis," A«., 4o. 

One vol. i2mo, doth. Price $i. 75 



SSR IVffA TTHE CRITICS, AND PRA CTICAL HOUSEKEEPERS, say of Hi 

*' An^l now we h?ve from j.nothcr popular novelist a cookery book, whereof our hoii«» 
keeper (this literary recorder is not a bachelor) speaks most enthusiastically. She saya 
that simxiHcit>- and clearness of expression, accuracy of detail, a regard to economy ci 
material, and certainty of good results, are requisites in « useful receipt-book for the 
kitchen, and Marion Harland has comprehended all these. That she has by experienoQ 
provcil the unsatisfactoriness of housekeepers* helps in general is shown by the arrange' 
ment of hei book. She has appended a star to such recipes as, after having tried them 
herself, she can recommend as safe and generally simple. Such a directory will be a 
gn-at help to one who goes to the book for aid in preparing a pleasant and savory tceal 
without much experience in cooking. The language is so simple, and the directions so 
plain, that a riRasonably intelligent cook might avail herself of it to vary her manner «i 
preparing even ordinary dishes The introduction to the book should bn printed as s 
tract and put in every lionse. The simple advice for the management of servants, the 
general directions it the head of each department of cooking, and the excellent pages on 
the sick-room, make as complete aa aid to housekeepers as can well be desired." — Himt*- 
fer's Monthly. 

" In the hands of the ai:thor, whose name is well known in another department orf 
literature, the subject has been treated with thoroughness and skill, showing that a tittle 
oumiiion sense may be as successful in tlie concoction of a toothsome viand as in tlie cum- 
poaition of \ romauce." — N, V. Daily Tribune. 

*' It iiiaptres us with a great respect for the housewiftiry of a literary lady, and w« 
cannot err in predicting for it a wide popularity." — N". Y. Evening Post. 

'*Uniles the merits of a trustworthy receipt-book with the freshness of a familu!' 
talk on household affairs." — Albany Evening yournal. 

" Tlie directious are clear, practical, and so good in their way that tl'^ only wonder i% 
Ihtw Atttj one head could hold so many pots, kettles, ard pans, and such a world of ^as- 
ta-momic good things. " — Hearth and Home, 

" The recipes are clearly expressed, easy to follow, and not at all expensive, TIl, 
sa^scstions about household affairs are chic. On ^ test comparison with three onaw 
AdiKrican cookbooks, it comes out ahead upon every count. Beyond this exj^erio ctsM 
jWft^sas niore nwd be SMd,"~- Christian Union. • 

<7V*" f€Htj fcst-paid, on receipt of the price, hv 

SCRIBNER, ARMSTRONG & CO., 

Xmu- 7W-A 



POPULAR AND STANDARD BOOKS 

PUBLISHED BY 

SCRIBNER, ARMSTRONG & CO., 

743 & 745 B It O -A. 3=) "W Ji-TT , 3Sr E "W "ST O la IC , 
111 ISTT. 

Bagehot ( Walter). Lombard Street. Neiv Edition, 1 2mo $ i 25 

Bowen (Prof. Francis). Modern Philosophy. Svo 3 '■■'^ 

Burnett (Mrs. F. H.) Thai Lass o' Lowrie's. Illus, i2mo, paper, 90c. ; cloth,, i sn 

Surly Tim, and Other Stories. Sq. i2ino ^ 25 

Bushnell. (Uniform Rdition of the Select Works of Horace Bushnelly D.D,) 

Grod in Christ. i2mo. Nature and the Supernatural. lamo. Sermons on 

Living Subjects. i2mo- The Vicarious Sacrifice. Two vols., i2mo. Each, i 50 

Oook (Clarence), The House Beautiful. Illus. 410, extra cloih 7 5° 

De Quincey. Thomas De Quincey : His Liie and Writings. By H. A. Page- 

With Portrait. Two vols., lanio 4 00 

Epochs of Modern History. Edited hy E. E. Mokris, M.A„ and others. 

Morris's Age of Anne. With Seven Maps. Sq. izmo 100 

Epochs of Ancient History. Edited by G. W. Cox, M.A., and others. 

Merivale's Roman Triumvirates. With Mafs and Tables. Sq. i2mo. i 00 

Brckmann-Ohalrian. Friend Fritz. i2mo i 25 

Field (Dr. Henry M.) From Egypt to Japan. i2mo 2 00 

Fisher (Prof. G-eo. P.) The Beginnings of Christianity. Cr, Svo 300 

Forsyth (Wm., Q. O.) Life of Cicero. New Edition. Cr. Svo 2 30 

Froude (J. A.) Short Studies on Great Subjects. Third Series. Cr. 8vo.. 250 

G-ould (J. M.) How to Camp Out. i6mo i 00 

Harry, Hy the author of " Mrs. Jerningham's Journal." Sq. i2mo., cloth. .... 50 

Holland (Dr. J. G-.) Nicholas Mlnturn. lamo 175 

Kingsley (Charles). His Letters and Memories of his Life. Cr. Svo 2 50 

Klunzinger(Dr.C.B.) Upper Egypt: Its People and Products. Illustrated. Svo. 3 00 

Lamb (Charles and Mary). Poetry for Children. i2mo i 25 

Lange's Commentary. Dr. Philip Schaff, General Editor. Each one vol., Svo. 

Samuel I. and II, One vol., Svo 5 00 

Macdonald (Dr. J. M.) The Life and Writings of St. John. Illustrated. Svo 5 00 

Memoir of Norman Macleod, D.D, Illus. Two vols, in one. Cr. Svo 2 50 

MarshCG-.P.) The Earth as Modified by Human Action, Neiv Edition. Svo 300 
Mitchell, D. G-. About Old Story-Tellers. By Ik Marvel. Illus. Small 4to. 2 00 

Perry (Prof. A. L.) An Introduction, to Political Economy. i2mo i 50 

Reid (T. W.) Charlotte Bronte. A Monograph. i2mo . 50 

Schliemann (Dr. Henry). Ancient Mycense. Discoveries and Researches 

on the Sites of Mycenie and Taryns. With Preface by Rt. Hon. W. E. . 

Gladstone, M.P. lilus. with Maps, Plates, Views, and Cuts. 410, ex. clo.. .12 00 

Shedd(Dr. W. 3-. T.) Theological Essays. Cr. Svo 2 50 

Shields (Prof C. W.) The Final Philosophy. Svo 3 00 

Smith(Dr, H. B.) Faith and Philosophy, Introduction by Dr,G. L.Prentiss. Svo. 3 50 

Smyth (Rev. Newman). The Religious Feeling. i2mo 1 25 

Stanley (Dean). Life of Arnold, New ICdition. One vol., cr. Svo 250 

History of the Jewish Church. Third Series. New Edition, i2mo 250 

Stephens (Rev. W. S. W.) Christianity and Islam. i2mo i 75 

TuUoch (Principal). The Christian Doctrine of Sin, i2mo i 50 

Verne (Jules). Hector Servadac. Profusely Illustrated. Svo 300 

Woolsey (Dr. T. D.) Political Science. Two vols., Svo. $3.50 each 700 

Afiy of tJie above iviJl be sent, post or exfress rhnrtfes jiaid, on 
receipt of the price by the ptihlisficra. 



