






^"fi"^^^ \%-^ —^^ ^^^ :mf^- <^^^. 



o N o 
c 




XI ' ^^ TV 'i ° 









in 






^.^ 







* 

«(?: 







o 
' o 



c/* 









'<^, O^ o " o -^^^ 




0- .^^ O 



'^' O^ "^ • / -• 



. ^. 



M- 












.',-'. ^^ 



A 






, V „ « o -^^ A V 



'Sy' 



-^^ .^>?% 










0- ^^ 




» / 1 









;ii&:^v ^^ ^ ^>%^v. % .s^' 







"^ 



> 



WM li;MI GTS 



/ "%»: 



>! 



v\ 



j||fjlii|j|ii;f'e^S 



I'liiiiij 






7i^:fv^-*"-^|ftiH 



^i'-^'S- 






i^m 



H?r 



Ir ^ 



■•^^ 



=^i 



^^<g^^^^ 



-x*^- 



A 



ir 





^ 



NEW YORK : 

M. YOUNG, PUBLISHER, 

173 GREENWICH STREET. 



/^WBC/RA/S^, 



Mi' YOUNG'S 



v • 



a-p^s.A.T 



BOOK of SECRETS 



CONTAININQ 



Recipes, with Full Instructions fob Manufacturing Many Popular 

AND Saleable Goods. Trade and Mechanical Secrets, Money 

Making Inventions, &c., &c., with the Paul Brothers' 

Secret, Turkish Perfumes, Cheng "Weng, Starch 

Polish, &c. 






NEW YORK 



M/ YOUNG, PUBLISHER, 

lENWICH STRE 



173 GREENWICH STREET. 

-1 



^ 



^74, 







\ 



Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1878, by, 

M. Young, in the Office of the 

Librarian of Congress at Washington, D. 0. 



07-5-3(^)7 



YOUNG'S 

GEEAT. 

. BOOK OF SECRETS. 

Header — In publishing this Book of Secrets, we do it with the 
firm belief that it will be the means of doing much good to the thou- 
sands that have never before had an opportunity to obtain them. 
Many of these Secrets have already been put in the market, and 
are now having very large sales. They are, of course, sometimes 
called by different names than those given in this book. Who- 
ever puts any of these valuable Medicines in market can give 
them such names as they think most attractive, or that might 
have a tendencj' to add to their sales. From the sales of some 
of these Secrets hundreds of thousands of dollars have been 
made, and they are now so firmly established in this country, 
and also in Europe, that they will probably be sought after as 
long as time lasts. 

If yoif desire to commence business for yourself, select from 
this Book one of these Secrets, one that you think would be the 
most saleable in your locality, and manufacture it in small quan- 
tities at first. As your sales imi^rove, and you see your way 
more clear to increase your business, invest more largely in 
goods. Sell to families and stores, and if you have the means at 
your command, leave it on commission and advertise it in every 
way that you can. Talk about your goods whenever you have 
an opportunity, and by so doing you will get others inquiring 
about them, and 3-ou will soon have a business started, with an 
income from it that will surprise you. The Patent Medicine 
business is the most profitable, and the surest return, (if properly 
advertised), of any business that you can engage in. If you are 
unable to put uj) any of these valuable Eemedies, but have the 
desire to do so, we would suggest that yon write out the Kecipe 
for making the Centennial Gold Medal Prize Vinegar and take a 



8 



lOUXGS BOOK OF SECIIETS. 



Bample of vinegar with yon in a bottle to show to storekeepers and 
families, and sell them the Secret of mnnufactinng this excellent 
vinegar for 50 cents. Any person tasting this article will will- 
ingly pay you the price yon charge for the Kecipe. Persons 
keeping provision stores will make money by purchasing this 
article from you. You can sell 20 Eecipes a day, at 50 cents each, 
($10 a day, all profit). If some object to paying j'our price, do 
not refuse to take less, rather than not sell to them. You can 
use any other Secret that you wish in the same manner, but we 
mention the vinegar Kecipe because that is an article that can 
be sold to almost everybody. 

We call especial attention to the Secret of the Paul Brothers, 
Violet Ink, published in this Book. Any industrious man or 
woman, boy or girl, can make money wiihout Capital to start with, 
if they follow closely the Instructions we give in relation to the 
gale of this valuable Secret. There are many Private Ptccipes, 
and Mechanical Secrets given in this Book, that have been man- 
ufactured very largely during the past few years. Fortunes have 
"been made in the manufacture of a Single Eecipe. We will not 
attempt to advise out of the many Secrets here given, just the 
one for the reader to establish a business i'rom, we leave you to 
judge for yourself what article would be the most suit^Jole and 
saleable. The manufacture of the Phosphorous Paste has been 
built up to a stupendous business. Dr Parkers Diarhoja Cure, 
is now one of the established Medicines of the world, and yon 
cannot do better than to manufacture this Bemedy. The Starch 
Polish is ft standard article. The Egyptian Perfume Secret is 
worth a hundred dollars. It has had most extensive sale. 

If you do not wish to leave home, sell all you can in your own 
town, and then advertise in your local newspaper, telling them 
what you have for sale, and what it will do. The medicines will 
always sell. Invalids abound in all communities, and the Eeme- 
dies you have in this Book of Secrets are the best the world ever 
produced. After you have got a little start advertise more large- 
ly, and yon will find your profits steadily increasing, and by 
continued exertion, and constant effort, you will establish your- 
self in a permanent and profitable business. 



t®T7Ng's book or seckets. 9 

EECIPES. 

Xlie I'aiil Bi'otliei-s Triolet Ink.— In 1871, 
1872, and 1873, two young men, (twin Brother's), Frenchmen, 
were often met in different parts of France and England, dressed 
{dike, and by closely wai^ching them they were seen to enter 
counting houses, banks, insurance offices, green grocers, mer- 
chants, and stores and shops of every kind. They carried no 
luggage or large sample cases like commercial travellers or drum- 
mers. They had the a^^pearance of young men with some det» r- 
mined object in view, and as they flitted swiftly by the br.sv 
throng, oxi the crowded thoroughfares, little or no comment was 
made on them except by those that noticed the remarkable re- 
semblance each bore to the other. These two j'oung men were 
the celebrated PAUL BEOTHERS, that made clear in three years, 
between them, over One Hundred Thousand Pounds SteViing, 
without one cent of capt|ul 1o start with. Previous history does 
not record a similar case. They stood alone up to 1871. Their 
method of making a fortune was not known to the general pub- 
lic until they had finished their successful tour over France and 
England. They did not advertise or manufacture goods. They 
did not force their wares on those they met. They had deter- 
mined on a Plan, (successful as it proved to be), and they fol- 
lowed it until victory crowned them with financial success. In 
1870 they made the discovery of a very rich VIOLET WKITIL'G 
INK. They put it up in bottles, and sold it for Two Shillings 
English currency. But they were very poor and could not ad- 
vertise or commission it, and they struggled hard, but could not 
get ahead. They walked from shop to shop, every day, occasion- 
ally selling a bottle. One dark, bleak Saturday night, in the 
City of Paris, out of money, foot sore, dishearten and hunffry, 
they entered a Cafe to trade a bottle of their Violet Ink, (if they 
could), for their su])per. The keen proprietor tested their great 
discovery and was amazed. He offered them five francs to learn 
him their Secret, so that he could make his own ink, and never 
have to buy any more. The Paul Brothers faltered. It was 
hunger on one side, and the parting with their Secret on the 
other. They decided to accept the Frenchman's paltry five franc 
piece, and made the Violet Ink in his presence. They then de- 
termined to sell that Secret to all France and England. The five 
francs carried them over 'till Monday morning. From that day 
fortune never failed them. They each took a pint bottle of the 
Violet Ink in their pocket, and visited stores, banks, offices, and 
everywhere that Ink is used or sold. They asked a moment's 
time of the storekeeper to show him their writing done with this 
Ink. Then they told him hn could make that Ink for a trifle per 
gallon. He could sell it in his store, or use it for his own busi- 



10 "Toung's book of secrets 

ness purposes. Five francs was their price to give the Secret. 
They found hundreds of thousands ready to buy Their fortune 
was niiide. Thi-ee years they worked selling this Secret in this 
way. Very many days they made five and six hundred francs, 
and in England they were known to make even more than that 
sum in a single day. The}' retired in the fall of 1873, worth over 
half a million dollars, every dollar of which was made selling the 
Secret for making their elegant Violet Ink. 

We purchased that Secret in Paris from the Paul Brothers, and 
we will now send it to you FllEE when you order Young's Great 
Book of Secrets. You can make the Violet Ink in five minutes 
in vour own home. It cost next to nothing to manufacture. 
Any storekeeper will pay you 50 cents for the Secret after you 
have shown him your sample. Anybody that writes will buy 
tbis Secret from you, for it is something of great value. Any 
morning, after breakfast, you can sell it to thirty storkeepers at 
50 cents each — $15 a day clear profit. If you are smart and ac- 
tive you can teach fifty every day. Y''oung ladies can easily sell 
50 a day. Y''ou can commence at once and each day your income 
will increase. It is not peddling, as you are dealing entirely 
with business men, teaching them the Secret to manufacture use 
or sell the Paul Brothers Violet Writing Ink, and you will be 
heartil}" welcomed. 

ORIGINAL RECIPE OF THE PAUL EKOTHERS 
VIOLET WRITIISrG INK. 

USED IN THE GO^TSKNIMENT BUILDINGS IN FRANCE, ENGLAND AND 

GERMANY. 

TO MAKE ONE GALLON.— Take an ounce of Violet Aniline. 
Dissolve it in one gill of hot Alcohol. Stir it a few moments. 
When thoroughly dissolved, add one gallon boiling water, and 
the ink is made. This ink is usually sold in cities at $2 per pint 
bottles, $1 for half pints, and 50 cents for gill bottles. This is 
the original recipe that was bought by us from the Paul Brothers 
in Paris, It is worth, to an enterprising man or woman. One 
Thousand Dollars. Do not bury it— use it, and make money 
out of it. 

Caution. — As the Aniline Colors of Commerce vary a great deal 
in quality, the amount of dilution must vary with the sample 
used, and the shade determined by trial. The above recijte is 
for the very best first quality Violet Aniline. In some localities 
it may not be easily obtained. If you desire to make one gallon 
from the best Violet Aniline, we will got it for you from an Im- 
porter of Colors in New York. It costs us 50 cents an ounce. 
That makes one gallon. Wo will send it to you at 50 cents an 
ounce, by mail. 

To Orn-o Bleeclinqr nucl lilincl T?ileH.— 
This is the celebrated French Surgeon (Dr Chevazzi's) groat cure 
for Piles. If the piles be vary hot and painful, they should be 



YOtTNo'S BOOK OF SECRETS. 11 

"weil fomented by means of a sponge, with hot camomile and 
poppj'^-head tea, three times a da)', for half an lionr each time, 
and at bed-time a hot white bread poultice should be a])plied. 
If the heat be not great, and if tlie pain be not intense, the fol- 
lowing ointment will be found efficacious; powdered opium one 
scruple; camphor, (powdered by means of a few drops spirits of 
wine), half a drachm; powdered galls one drachm: spermaceti oint- 
ment, three drachms. Mix — To be applied night and nicrning. 
The bowels shoul.l be kept gently opened by one or two tea- 
spoonfuls of compound confection of senna, take everj' morning. 
The tea is made from four poppy heads and four oz. camomile 
blows, boiled in two quarts water half an hour. This is a valu- 
able Recipe. 

To Ou.i"e J*»iol£ Hea.<lnche. — Gather sumacleavea 
in the Summer, and spread them in the sun a few days to dr}'. 
Tlien powder them fine, and smoke, morning and evening for 
two weeks, also whenever there are symptoms of approaching 
headache. Use a new clay pipe. If these directions are adhered 
to this medicine will surely effect a permanent cure 

To Oii-i^G ri Ooii{«iiiiiipti>'0 Ooiig-li. — Take 
three pints ruia water, half pound raisins chopped tine, three 
tablespoonfuls flax seed, sweeten to a syrup with honey, and boil 
down to a quart. Add three teaspoonfuls of extract of anise. 
Take a tablespoonful eight times a day. 

To Oiivo BfildiiesH. — Colonge water two ounces; 
tincture of cantharides two drachms; oil of lavender or rosemary, 
of each ten drops. These applications must be used twice a day 
for three or foiir weeks, but if the scalp become sore, they must 
be discontinued for a time, or used at longer intervals. 

When the hair falls o{f from diminished action of the scalp, 
preparations of cantharides are excellent. The following will 
cause the hair to grow faster than any other preparation: beef 
marrow soaked in several waters, melted and strained, half a 
pouml; tincture of cantharides (made b}' soaking for a week one 
drachm of powdered cantharides in one ounce of proof spirit), 
one ounce; oil of barganut twelve drops. 

Wliooj>iTi.<y OonLj2rli. — Dissolve a scruple of salt of 
tartur in a gill of water; add to it ten grains of cochineal; sweeten 
it M'ith sugar. Give to an infant a quarter teaspoonful four times 
a day; two years old half spoonful; from four years a tablesi:)oon- 
ful.. Great care is required in the administration of medicines to 
infants. We can assure paternal inquirers that the foregoing may 
be depended upon. 

Li<][iii<l O-l no.— Dissolve one ounce of borax in a pint 
of boiling w:iter: add two ounces of shellac, and b(;il in a covered 
vessel until the lao is dissfdved. This forms a very useful and 
cheap cement, an;l withstands damp much better than the com- 
mon glue. Tills is superior to any Prepared Glue in market. 



12 tOFNG's BOOK OF SECRETS. 

niospixorou-S P*aj*Jte for I>eJsti*oyiiig' 
li^ats a.iicl !M!ioe. — Melt one pound of lard, with a very- 
gentle heat, in a large mouthed bottle or other vessel plunged 
into warm water ; then add half an ounce of phosphorous, and 
one pint of proof spirit; cork the bottle securely, and a!« it cools 
shake it frequently, so as to mix the phosphorous uniformly; 
when cold pour otf the spirit (which may be preserved for the 
same purpose), and thicken tha njixture with flour; Small por- 
tions of this paste may be placed near the rat holes, and being 
luminous in the dark it attracts them, is eaten greedily, and is 
certainly fatal. Put it up in small tin boxes, and sell at 25 cents 
each. There is a firm in this city that has made over thirty 
thousand dollars manufacturing this article. 

I>i'. I?ai*l«:<3i''s Gri'eat Oiir*e fox* X>iax— 
rhoea and Oraiiips in J^itoiiiacli. — Two parts 
tincture camphor, tincture opium, tincture African Cayenne, 
essence peppermint, one part tincture rhubarb, Mix. Dose — 
Half teaspoonful for an adult, and from five to ten drops for a 
child. liepeat the dose in fifteen minutes if the patient is not 
relieved. Bathe the bowels with strong vinegar. This is one of 
the most valuable Secrets that this book contains. It has saved 
hundreds of lives. If you manufacture this article and sell a few 
bottles in any locality, its great virtues will soon spread far and 
wide, and you will have orders from families, druggists, and 
others. Put it up to retail for 25 cents. 

I>i'Oj>s^.— Take one pint of bruised mustard seed, two 
handfuls of bruised horseradish root, eight ounces of lignum- 
vitce chips, and four r.uncea of bruised Indian hemp root. Put 
all the ingredients in seven quarts of cider, and let it simmer 
over a slow tire until it is reduced to four quarts. Strain the 
decoction, and take a wineglassful four times a day, for a few days, 
increasing the dose to a small teacupful three times a day. After 
which use tonic medicines. This remedy has cured cases of 
dropsy in one week's time which had baffled the skill of many 
eminent physicians. For children the dose should be smaller. 

Iiicielil>le lyTai^-liiiig- Iiili ^W^itlioiit a 
I'l'epai'atioii. — Dissolve separately one ounce of nitrate 
of silver, and one and a half ounces of sub-carbonate of soda, 
(best washing soda) in rain water. Mix the solutions, and col- 
lect and wash the precipitate in a filter; while still moist rub 
it up in in a marble or hard wood mortar with three drachms of 
tartaric acid; add two ounces of rain water, mix six drachms 
white sugar, and ten drachms of powdered gum arable, half an 
ounce of archil and water to make up six ounces in measure. 
It should be put up in short drachm bottles, and sold at 25 cents. 
This is the best ink for marking clothes that has ever been dis- 
covered. There is a fortune in this recipe, as a good marking ink 
is very saleable. 



young's eook of eeceets. 13 

-(^.vistiii's DPei'siaii SsJtai-oli Enamel. — 

Melt over a slow fire live pounds reiined parrafine, and when it 
is all melted add two hundred drops oil of citronelli. Place sev- 
eral new round pie pans, well oiled with lard oil or sweet oil, on 
a level table, and pour about six tablespoonfuls of the Polish into 
each pan. Let them stand until they are cool enough to lift into 
a pail or basin of water; let the pan float on the water a moment 
so as to cool the bottom, and then submerge or press the pan 
into the water, until it is cool enough to stamp the Polish out 
into cakes. This must be done before it gets too hard, and there- 
IbrS it will requii-e close watching. Have a round tin stamp 
made to cut cakes about the size of a candy lozenge. Stamp 
them out, and let them cool well before taking them out of the 
pans. Put it up in square paper boxes, (nine cakes in each, 
retail at 5 cents a box). Thirty cakes in oval boxes, 25 cents. 
The cost of the 25 cent boxes, filled, ready for market, is about 
5.] or G cents; the small size boxes about Ik cents. They are also 
put up in 10 cent boxes which is a very saleable size. Directions 
— To a pint of boiling starch stir in two of the cakes or tablets, 
or three cakes to a quart. This gives an elegant lustre to linen 
or muslin, and imparts a splendid perfume to the clothes, and 
makes the iron pass very smoothly over the surface. It requires 
but half the ordinary labor to do an ironing. It is admired by 
every lady. It prevents the iron from adhering to the surface, and 
the clothes remain clean and neat much longer than by any other 
method known. Over six thousand storv3s are selling this article 
in New York and Brooklyn. For Ladies, we know of no busi- 
ness so suitable and pleasant to engage in. If j-ou desire futher 
information write your questions briefly and we will answer 
them at once. 

To ileiiio^ e Oi*ea^e oi' stains ii*om 
Olotliiiig". — Ordinary benzine is as good a grease cradicator 
as is now used. Put up in four ounce bottles and label it "The 
Nation's Grease Extractor," and sell for 20 or 25 cents. Benzine 
generally costs about 15 cents a gallon. Dip the corks in wax, 

IPosixtitiiMUs!. — For making pomatums, the lard, fat, suet, 
or marrow used, must be carefully prepared by being melted with 
as gentle a heat as possible, skimmed and cleared from the dregs 
•which are deposited on standing. Take mutton suet, prepared 
as above, one pound; lard three pounds; carefully melted togeth- 
er, and stirred constantly as it cools, two ounces oil bergamot 
being added just after lifting the pomade from the fire. Hard 
Pomade. — Mutton suet and lard each one pound; white mmx, four 
ounces; oil of berg:imot one ounce. Put up in short, large 
mouthed bottles, and sell at 15 or 20 cents. 

Oeiiiciit loi' IJi-olceii China, Olass, «S,ie. 
• — The foUoM'ing recipe, from experience, we know to be a good 
one, and, being nearly colorless, it possesses advantages which 



14 YOr»G''9 BOOK or SECRETS. 

liquid ghie and other cements do not: Dissolve half an onnce 
of gum acacia in a wineglass of boiling water; add plaster of 
Paris sufficient to form a thick paste, and apply with a brush to 
the parts required to be cemented together. 

^oi'e tiiicl "Weiilc E^^t?^.— Sulphate of zinc three 
grains; tincture of opium ten drops, water two ounces. To be 
applied three or four times a day. 

Another. — Dissolve five grains acetate of morphia, ten grains 
BUgar of lead, and six grains sulphate of zinc, in five ounces 
rose-water. Bathe the eyes freely three times a day. For Scrof- 
ulous Sore Eyes, take blue violets, dig them up, top and root, 
wash clean, dry them, and make a tea. Drink several times a 
day, wetting the eyes each time, and it will soon effect a cure. 

Out ox* !Oi*iiiso. — A]iply the moist surface of the in- 
side coating or skin of the shell of a raw egg. It will adhere of 
itself, leave no scar, and heal without pain. 

"Wons. — Take the yolks of eggs, beat up, and add as much 
fine salt as will dissolve, and apply a plaster to the "Wen every 
ten hours. It cures without pain or any inconvenience. 

l^l>i'aiii.ocl ^nlilo ox* Wi-ist.— Wash the ankle 
very frequently with cold salt and water, which is far better than 
warm vinegar or decoctions of herbs. Keep the foot as cool as 
possible to prevent inflammation, and sit with it elevated on a high 
cushion. Live on low diet, and take every day some cooling 
medicine such as Epsom salts. It cures in a few days. 

Best BlacliiBi^ ioi- Boots aiici }!5<lioes. — 
Ivory black one and ii half ounces, molasses one and a half ounces 
sperm oil three drachms, strong oil of vitriol three drachms, 
common vinegar half a pint. Mix the ivory black, molasses and 
vinegar together, then mix the sperm oil and oil of vitriol sepa- 
rately, and add them to the other mixture. 

Fjfeoltles. — Muriate of ammonia half a drachm, lavender 
water two drachms, rain water half a pint. Api^lied with a sponge 
two or three times a day. 

To take ]>Xai'l£iii«: Iiili: out of Linen. — 
A saturated solution of cyanuret of j)otassium, applied with a 
camel's hair brush. After the marking ink disappears, the linen 
should be well washed in cold water. 

Hail* I>^^i5.— This preparation has held the market in 
Europe for several years, nnd gives entire satisfaction. Solution 
No. 1. — Hydrosulphuret of ammonia one ounce, solution of pot- 
ash three drachms, distilled or rain water one ounce, (all by 
measure). Mix, and put into small bottles, labeling it No. 1. 
Solution No. 2. — Nitrate of silver one drachm, rain w'ater two 
ounces. Dissolved and labeled No. 2. Directions. — The solution 
No. 1. is first applied to the hair with a tooth brush, and the 
application continued for fifteen or twenty minutes. Then let 
the hair dry a short time. The solution No. 2. is then brushed 



YOUNa'a BOOK OF SECRETS. 15 

over ft. comb beinpj used to separate the hairs and allow the liquid 
to come in contact with every part. Care must be taken that the 
liquid does n(^t come in contact with the skin, ns the solution 
No. 2. produces a ver^^ permanent dark stain on all substances 
with which it comes in contact. If the shade is not siifficieutly 
deep, the operation may be repeated. The hair should be cleans- 
ed from grease before losing the dye. This can be easily done 
by washing the head in clear water, adding thereto about two 
tablespoonfals of ordinary washing soda. Dry the hair well with 
a towel. Tins Dye (No. 1. and No. 2. put up in a box together), 
is sold at 50 cents. A fine business can be built up by manufact' 
uring and selling this Hair Dye. 

S!^oi'e Tlii-oa^t.— Pour a pint of boiling water upon 
twenty or thirty leaves of common sage, let the infusion stand for 
half an hour. Add vinegar sufficient to make it moderately acid, 
and honey according to tlie taste. It must bo used several times 
a day. Another excellent remedy is a strong solution of salt and 
water. Gargle every hour. A wet towel worn on the throat at 
night will assist in affecting a cure. For a Putrid Sore Throat 
use a gargle of brewers' yeast six times a day, also bind thin 
slices of salt pork on the throat. 

I>2^''«;pop«ia. — One of the first things to be attened to is 
to regulate the bowels, which in this disease are always in a cos- 
tive state. The best means of keeping them loose is the eating of 
a handful of clean wheat bran, once or twice a day. This is the 
most simple and efficacious method of cleansing the stomach. 
It may be eaten from the hand with a few swallows of water to 
wash it down, also use, to regulate the stomach and bowels, the 
daily use of common salt, in teaspoonful doses, dissolved in a 
half" tumblerful of water, taken in the morning fasting. Avoid 
rich diet, and use brown bi-ead instead of that made of superfine 
flour. 

Tlie Best Pill in tUe 'Woi'ld.— Two pounds 
of aloes, one pound of gamboge, four oxinces of the extract of 
colocynth, half a pound of castile soap, two fluid ounces of oil of 
peppermint, and one fluid drachm of cinnamon. Mix and ioi*m 
into pills. These pills are the most celebrated of any in tho 
world, and the fortunate manufacturer has accumulated over a 
million dollars from their sale. 

To<>tlisi<:?lio. — Take equal parts of camphor, sulphuric 
ether, ammonia, laudaniim, tincture of cayenne, and one-eight 
part oil of cloves. Mix well together. Saturate with the liquid 
ft small piece of cotton, and apply to the cavity of the diseased 
tooth, and the pain will cease immediately. Put up in long 
drachm bottles. Ptelail at 25 cents. This is a very saleable prep- 
aration, and affords a large pi-otit to the manufacturer. 

Oi.ii*e ot'W^a,i'ts. — The easiest way to get rid of warts is 
to pare oft" the thickened skin which covers tho prominent wart; 
cut it off by suG«QS8ive layers, and shave it till you «ome t* tho 



16 young's book or secrets. 

surface of the slcin, and till you draw blood in two or three places. 
Then rub the part thoroughly over with lunar caustic, and one 
effective operation of this kind will generally destroy the wart; 
if not, you cut off the black spot Avhich has been occasioned by 
the caustic, and apply it again; or you may apply acetic acid,! 
and thus you will get rid of it. Care must be taken in applying 
these acids, not to rub them on the skin around the wart. 

Dye ^iilc Lilao. — For every pound of silk take one 
and a half pounds of archil, mix it well with the liquor, make it 
boil a quarter of an hour, dip the silk quickly, then let it cool, | 
and wash it in river water, and a fine half violet, or lilac, more 
or less full, will be obtained. 

— Put a few droi:)S of spirits of nitre in a teaspoonful of water,' 
touch the spot with a feather dipped in the mixture, and on the, 
ink disappearing, rub it over immediately with a rag wet in cold 
watei', or there will be a white mark which will not be easily, 
effaced. 

To Olcaix IVTarfele. — Take two parts common soda.i 
one part of pumice-stone, and one part of finely powdered chalk; 
sift it through a fine sieve, and mix it with water; then rub it 
well over the marble, and the stains will be removed; then washj 
the marble over with soap and water, and it will be as clear as it 
was at first. 

Paint. — To get rid of the smell of oil paint plunge a hand- 
ful of hay into a pail of water, and let it stand in the room newly' 
painted. 

To Iiemo>^e OiTensive Bi^eatli. — ior this' 
purpose almost the only substance that should be admitted at the' 
toiletts is the concentrated solution of chloride of soda. From 
six to ten drops of it in a wineglassful of spring water, taken 
immediately after the operations of the morning are completed. 

In some cases, the odor arising from carious teeth is combined 
with that or the stomach. If the mouth be well rinsed with a tea- 
spoonful of the solution of the chloride in a tumbler of water,' 
the bad ordor of the teeth will be removed. 

"Wliito J^Xctal. — This is a splendid article for spoons; 
castors, ornaments, and in short articles of everj"^ descrij)tion.. 
It closely resembles silver, and may be used with great profit by 
the manufa'-iture of an infinite variety of commercial articles of 
almost every description. 

The alloy is ten ounces of lead, six ounces of bismuth, four 
drachms of antimony, eight ounces of brass, and ten oimces of 
block tin, all melted together. This can be run into moulds or 
hammered into any shape, as it is perfectly malleable. 

Iiiii^"\^on:»i. — The head is to be washed twice a day 
with soft soap and warm soft water; when dried, the places to be 
rubbed with a piece of linen rag dipped in ammonia from gas tar; 
the patient should take a little sulphur and molasses, or some 



young's boos of sercets. 17 

other genuine aperient, every morning: brushes and combs should 
be washed ev^ry day. and the ammonia kept tightlv corked. 

Imitation r»iii-e ?«^il ver.— So perfect in its resem- 
blance th.it no chemist living can detect it from pure virgin silver. 
It IS all melted together in a crucible. Quarter of an ounce of 
copper, two ounces of brass, three ounces of pure silver, one 
ounce of bismuth, two ounces of saltpetre, two ounces of common 
salt, one ouuce of arsenic, one ounce of potash. Add a little 
borax to make it run easy. 

Ai\^iiiasoi' S?;oap.— This is made with lard. In France 
they use lard with a i)ortion of olive or bleached palm oil It is 
made with one part of olive oil to nine of tallow. But a great 
part ot %/hat is sold is only curd (tallow) soap, and scentedwith 
oil of caraway and bergamot. The brown is color with burnt 
sugar, or umber. 

,- Honej^ J*Joap.— White cured soap 1^ pounds, brown 
Wmdsor soap half pound. Cut them into thin shavings, and 
bquety as directed above for scented soap; then add four ounces 
ot lioney, and keep it melted till most of the water is evaporated- 
then remove from the fire, and when cool enough add any essen-' 
tial oil. According to Piesse the honey soap usuallv sold con- 
sists of fine yellow soap, perfumed witli oil of citronella 

Maitin's JfiJpleiiclid I51aoli IiilK.-Eoillo-. 
wood twenty-two pounds, in enough water to yield fourteen 
gallons decoction. To a thousand parts cf this decoction, when 
cold, add one part chromate of potash. The mixture is to be 
well stirred. The proportions are to be carefully observed, and 
tlie yellow chromate, not the birchromate, employed. This ink 
possesses some great advantages, to adhere strongly to paper so 
that It can neither be washed off by water, nor even altered 'by 
wea^ acids, to form no deposit, and not be in the least acted upon 
by steel pens. ^ 

R-ecl Wi-itiniry Iiili.— Best ground Brazil wood four 
ounces, diluted acetic acid one pint, alum half an ounce. Boil 
them slowly in a covered tinned copper or enamelled saucepan 
lor one hour, strain, and add one ounce gum. 

Uff^^^^^'^T J»iJ^--<^^imboge triturated with water, and a 
little alum added. 

GJ-i-eeJi Iiilc.-Rub three and a half drachms Prussian 
Blue, and three drachms of gamboge, with two ounces of mucil- 
age, and add half a i)int of water. 

r.offo'^.^'n ^*^^^^^l-^^i-.I»il^.-Fine Bronze powder, or 
gold o silver leaf, ground with a little sulphate of potash, and 

tity of uT ' ' '" "" ^'"^ '''^^ ''"''^^'' ^^'^ "" sufficient quan- 

^V^7'^P^***^*^^ ^** ►*^eci-ot Iillt^j.— The solutions 
used should be so nearly colorless that the writing canno bo seTn 
till the agent is applied to render it visibte 

Boil oxide of cobalt in acetic acid. If a little common salt bo 



18 young's book of 3ECKET3. 

added, the writing becomes green -when lieated; bnt witli nitre it 
becomes a pale rose color. 

A weak solution of sulphate of copper. The writing becomes 
bine when exposed to the vapor of ammonia. 

]>iIariifol<i I*a j>oi'. — A process by which several letters 
can be written at one time. It i.s commonly known as coi'>ying 
paper. Mix lard with black lead or lamp-black into a stiff jmste, 
rub it over tissue paper with flannel, and wipe off the sui^erfluous 
quantity with a soft rag. These sheets alternated with black 
carbon paper, and written with a hard pencil, will produce sever- 
al cojiies of a letter at once. 

To M:ali:e tt Bsii-rel oF Ooocl ^oap.— 
Dissolve fifteen pounds of bar soap in fifteen gallons boiling water, 
and let it get cold. Cut up the soap in slices. When cold it 
will be thick like jelly. 

Dissolved fifteen pounds of sal-soda in fifteen gallons more of 
boiling water, which will take three minutes, then add to this 
composition six j^ounds of unslacked lime; let these articles boil 
together twenty minutes. When cold and settled, turn off this 
fluid, and stir it up with the soap, be careful not to disturb the 
sediment, then add three pints of alcohol, and stir all the articles 
together. 

W^a«li Equal to T*niixt. — Take a half bushel of 
nnslacked lime, and slack it with boiling water, cover it during 
the process. Strain it, and add a peck of salt dssolved in warm 
water, three pounds of ground rice boiled to a thin paste put in 
boiling hot, half pound of Spanish whiting, and one pound of 
clear glue dissolved in warm water. Mix and let it stand several 
days. Keep it in a kettle, and put it on as hot as possible with 
a brush. 

The above is the receipt used for the President's house at 
Washington. It is said to look as well and last as long as oil 
paint, on wood, brick or stone. 

To Olean Iti<l d-loves. — Make a strong lather 
■with curd soap and warm water, in which steep a small piece of 
new flannel. Place the glove on a flat unyielding surface — such 
as the bottom of a dish, and having thoroughly soaped the flannel 
(when squeezed from the lather), rub the glove till all dirt be re- 
moved, cleaning and re-soaping the flannel from time to time. 
Care must be taken to omit no part of the glove, by turning the 
fingers, etc. The gloves must be dried in the sun, or before a 
moderate fire, and will present the appearance of old parchment. 
When quite dry, they must be gradually pulled out, and will 
look new. 

Ooi'iis. — Boil a potato in its skin, and after it is boiled take 
the skin and put the inside of it to the corn, and leave it on for 
about twelve hours; at the end of that period the corn will ba 
nearly cured. ... 



toung's book or seckets. 19 

To X>e«ti.*ov I<^lie» isi a Itoom.-Tuke half a 
tciispooiiful of black'^peitper, one teaspoonlul of brown sugiir, 
and one tablespoonful of cream; mix them well together and 
place them in a room on a plate, where the flies are troublesome 
and they will soon disappear. 

Fi'e^ei'^'iiig,* JdUg-g-^.— The following mixture was 
patented several years ago by Mr. Jayne of Sheffield, England. 
He alleged that by means of it he could keep eggs two years. 
A part of his composition is often made use of — perhaps the 
whole of it would be better. Put into a tub or vessel one bushel 
of quick lime, two pounds of salt, half a pound of cream of 
tartar, and mix the same together, with as much water as will 
reduce the composition, or mixture to that consistence that it 
will cause an egg put into it to swim with its top just above 
the liquid. Then i)ut and keep the eggs therein. 

JTi-eiieli. l^olisli Ibi* I3ootj^ mi<l ^lioes. — 
Mix together two pints of the best vinegar and one pint of wat- 
er, stir into it a quarter of a pound of glue, broken up, half a 
pound of logwood chips, a quarter of an ounce of finely pow- 
dered indigo, a quarter of an ounce of the best soft soap and a 
quarter of an ounce of isinglass. Put the mixture over the fire 
and let it boil ten or fifteen minutes. Then strain the liquid, 
and bottle and cork it. When cold it is fit for use. The polish 
should be applied with a clean sponge. 

Oi'iijx^.— Wliea a drop of water falls on a black crape veil or 
collar, it leaves a conspicuous white mark. To obliterate this, 
spread the crape on a ttible (laying it on a large book or jniper to 
keep it steady), and place underneath the stain a piece of old 
black silk. With a large camel's hair brush, dipped in common 
ink, go over the stain, and then wipe ofi: the ink with a small 
piece of old soft silk. It will dry immediately, and the white 
mark will be seen no more. 

To Oiii-o r*tiiiis in. tlio Feet: Ooen- 
S?iioiiecl \)y^ "Walliiiig:.— If your feet become p-iinful 
from walking or standing too long, put them into warm salt and 
water mixed in the proportion of two large handfuls of salt to a 
gallon of water.. Sea watermade warm, is still better. Keep 
your feet and ankle in the w-ater until it begins to feel cool, 
rubbing them well with your hands. Then wipe them dry 
and rub them long and hard with a coarse towel. Where the 
feet are tender and easily fatigued, it is an excellent practice to 
go through this practice regulary every night, also on coming 
home from a walk. With perseverance this has cured neuralgia 
iu the feet. 

l^^e^'ei* mid -A.j>*iie. — First clear the bowels wath the 
fluivl extract of senna and jalep two drachms, infusion of cloves 
two ounces; mix. To be tukeu at a drauujht. In the cold stage 



20 young's booe of seckets. 

give hot drinks nud try to excite warmth. In the hot ague give 
cooling drinks. Then give quinine one scruple, alcohol four 
ounces, sulphuric acul live clrop's; n)ix— in two tablespoonlul 
doses, every hull' hour, at the same time give live drop doses of 
tincture or fluid extract of veratum and rub the patient with dry 
towels. In the intermission give three grain doses, unce in four 
hours, and continue it a lormight alter the cessation of the at- 
tacks. 

The following is known as the Cuban Eemedy for chills and 
fever. Just before the api)roach of the fever spread two plas- 
ters about two inches wide composed of black pepper, bruised 
fine ^,not ground \ luixed into a paste with tije white ot an egg. 
Immediatelj" before the fever comes bind them on the inside of 
thn wrists, and lie down. Do not remove them until the fever 
has })assed oit". If the fever is not entirely broken bj' the first 
application, apply fresh plasters ot the same the next time the 
fever comes on. 

To ]>Xal<e "i'oiii* Teotli as T"^^liite as 
^iio'w. — Take one part chloride of lime and fifteen parts of 
prepared chalk, adding half an ounce of pulverized Peruvian 
bark and a few drops of otto of roses. Use it thoroughly morn- 
ing and evening. 

To iiisilie 01isiiiipa<i'iie Oiclei* ioi* TToiii* 
Oeiitss SI Oalloii. — Take five gallons lukewarm water, 
add one gallon common molasses, three pounds of brown su- 
gar, one gallon ot vinegar, one gallon of yeast quarter of a 
pound of tataric acid. Let all stand m the warm water to dis- 
solve one hour, then add cold water. Let stand forty-eight 
hours to work, with bung out. This makes forty-two gallons. 
In all cases the barrel should be full. To keep for a length of 
time add one pound of mustard. Bottle and seal it well. 

To Di'i^'e Ooclvi'oac'lies IVoiii "i'oiix* 
I>»'Olliii45"as». — Strew pulverized hellebore root on the 
hearth, tioor, or places they frequent at night. In the morning 
the roadies will be found either dead or dying, for such is 
their avidity for this plant, that they never fail to eat it when 
they can get it. Black pulverized hellebore may be had at all 
herb shops. Put up in. small tin boxes and retail at twenty- 
five cents. 

To Oiii^o Doaiiioss. — Obtain pure pickerel oil »ind 
ap})ly four drops morning and evening to the ear. Great care 
sh.uiM be takiii to obtain oil that is ]ierfectly pure. 

T4> Olosiii "5l'oiii* l)>\'elliEij>-s ii-oii« I^eil 
I3ii*>-S5j. — Corrosive sublimate and the white of an egg, beat 
togetUer and laid \\ith a feather nround the crevices of the bed- 
steads and the Siicking is very etfectual in destroying bugs in 
them. Tansy is also said to be very effectual in keeping them 
away. Strew it under the sacking bottom. The best txttrmin- 



T0UNG*5 BOOK OF S^ICEETS. 21 

fttor is black pulverized hellebore root, it destroys them. Placo 
it Avhere the bngs will be likely to crawl. 
To 3Xfil£e I*aiiit loi* One Oeiit a, I*oixiT<il. 

— To one gallon of soft hot water add four pounds sulphate of 
zinc (crude). Let it dissolve perfectly', and a sediment will 
settle at the bottom. Turn tha clear solution into another ves- 
sel. To one gallon of paint (lead and oil), mix one gallon cf 
the compound. Stir it into the paint slowly for ten or fifteen 
minutes, and the compound and paint will perfectly combine. 
If too thick thin it with turpentine. This recipe has been 
B0I4 to painters as high as $100 for the privilege to use the 
same in their business. 

To 3Xali:e Hens I^ay tlie T\^Iiole "^eai-. 
— Give each hen half an ounce of fresh meat every day, and 
mix a small amount of red pepper with their food during the 
winter, (xive them pl'^nty of grain, water, gravel and lime and 
allow no cocks to run with them. 

Irlo^v to Hai«e a IMu-Staelie. — Tincture 
of benzoin compound two drachms, tincture of Spanish 
flies two dr.ichms, castor oil six ounces, oil bergamot 
one drachm, oil of verbena fifteen drops, strong alcoliol nine 
ounces. Circulation should be stimulated first by friction with 
a rough towel, apply to the whiskers and mustache morning 
and evening. 

To 3Xali:e Ovicini:il>er' "Vines l^eai:- ITive 
Oi'Oj3S. — When a cucumber is taken ^'rom the vine let it be 
cut witu a knife, leaving about the eighth of an inch of the cu- 
cumber on the stem, then slit the stem with a knife from its end 
to the vine leaving a small portion of the cucumber on each di- 
vision, and on each separate slit there will be a new cucumber 
as large as the first. 

Sil>^ei- Plating" Flviiil.— Take one ounce of pre- 
cipitate silver to half an ounce of cynate of potash and a quar- 
ter of an ounce of hyposulphite of soda, put all in a quart of 
water, add a little whiting, and shake before using. Apply 
•with a soft rag. Put up in ounce bottles, and retail at twenty- 
five cents. This secret is worth $103 to an agent to sell to families. 

Oliappecl Hands and Lips.— One quarter 
pound of honey, and one quarter pound sal-soda with one pint 
of water. Apply often. 

Pnlmonic ^Vafei-s for Oong-lis.— White 
sugar three and a half jDounds, tincture or syrup of ipecac two 
ounces, antimonial wine one ounce, morphine five grains, dis- 
solved in a tablespoonful of water; with ten drops sulphuric 
acid, half an ounce tincture blood root, one ounce syrup of 
tolu. Add these to the sugar, and mix the whole mass as the 
confectioners' do for lozenges, and cut into lozenges of the or- 
dinary size. Use from six to twelve of these in twenty-four 



22 young's book of secrets. 

hours. These -wafers are equal to any made and are generally 
sold at high prices. 

IVei'voxis Henclaclie. — Extract hyocyrnus five 
grains, pulverized camphor five grains; Mix. Make lour pills, 
one to be taken ^vhen the pain is most severe in nervous head- 
ache. Or three drops tincture nux-vomica in a spoonful of wat- 
er, two or three times a day. 

Folon*.— One tablespoonful of red lead, and one tahle- 
spoonful of Castile soap and mix them with as much weak lye 
as will make it soft enough to spread like a salve, and ajiply 
it on the first appearance of the felon, and it will cure 
in ten or twelve days. 

liestoi'e E^-esigrlit:. — Let there he an occasional 
pressure of the finger on the l;all of the eye. Let the pressure 
always be from the nose and towards the temples, and wash the 
eyes three times a day in cold water. If this simjile advice is 
followed the day is not far distant Avhen partial blindness shall 
disappear from tlie world. 

Eiilax'g-ocl T^eiiis of* tlie L-eg*. — Apply firm- 
ly strii)s of leather spread with soap plaster. "' Generally it is 
better to support the whole limb with a strong calico bandage 
which should be applied before getting cut of bed, It is well 
to use friction in connection with iodine ointment. 

<Oos"ti~^^eiie»!!S.— Common charcoal is highlv recom- 
mended for costiveness. It may be taken either in tea or table- 
spoonful, or even larger doses according to the exigencies of the 
case, mixed with molasses, repeating it as often as necessary. 
Bathe the bowels with pepper and vinegar. Or take two ounces 
of rhubarb, add one ounce of rust of iron, infuse m one quart 
of wine. Haifa wineglassful every morning. Or take pulver- 
ized blood root one drachm, pulverized rhubarb one drachm, 
Castile soap two scruples. Mix and roll into thirty-two pills. 
Take one morning and night. Bj^ following these directions it 
may perhaps save you from a severe attack of piles or some other 
kindred disease. 

"Wasliiii^ ]>i;n€lo Easy. — To save your linen and 
your labor pour on half a pound of soda two quarts of boiling 
water, in an earthenware pan; take half a jjound of soap, shred 
fine, put it into a saucepan wath two quarts of cold water, 
stand it on a fire till it boils, and when perfectly dissolved and 
boiling add it to the former. Mix it well, and let it stand till 
cold, when it has the appearance of a strong jelly, Let your 
linen be soaked in water, the seams and anj' other dirty part 
rubbed in the usual way and remain till the follo^Ying morning. 
Get your wash boiler ready, and add to the M'ater about a pint 
basin full. When lukewarm put in your linen and allow it to 
boil twenty minutes. Hinse it in the usual waj', and that is all 



young's book of secrets. ' 23 

•s\-liich is necessary to get it clean, and to keep it in good color. 
The above receipt is invaluable to housekeepers. Give it a 
trial. 

]>Xiii"t ^in.eg'Sir .— Put into a wide-mouthed bottle fresh 
nice clean ruint leaves enough to lill it loosely, then fill up the 
bottle with good vinegar, and after it has been stopped close for 
two weeks it is to be poured off clear into another bottle, and 
kept well corked for use. Serve with lamb when mint cannot 
be obtained. 

Excellent Ha.ii' TVash.— Take one ounce of 
borax, half an ounce of camphor, powder these ingredients very 
fine and dissolve them in one quart boiling water; when cool 
the solution will be ready for use; damp the hair frequently. 
This wash effectually cleanses, beautifies and strengthens the 
hair, preserves the color and prevents early baldness. The 
camphor will form into lumps after being dissolved, but the 
water will be sufficiently impregnated. 

Oliilfelainss*, ^prtiiiis, etc.— One raw egg, well 
beaten, half a pint of vinegar, one ounce spirits of turpentine, a 
quarter of an ounce of spirits of wine, a quarter of an ounce of 
camphor. These ingredients to be beaten well together, then 
put in a bottle and shaken lor ten minutes, after which to be 
corked down tightly to exclude the air. In half an hour it is tit 
for use. To be well rubbed in, two, three or lour times a day. 
For rheumatism, in the head, to be rubbed at the back of the 
neck and behind the ears. In chilblains, this remedy is to be 
used before they are broken. 

Tlie 'Elg;yjyt\a.iM. IPei'tTune.— In manufactur- 
ing this article, follow the same directions, and use the 
same ingredients as are used in Austin's Starch Enamel pub- 
lished on another page of this book, with the simple alteration 
of using the oil of jassemine instead of the oil of citronella. In 
perfuming use one ounce of oil of jassemine to every pound and 
a half of parratine. Stamp out in cakes one inch long, half 
an inch wide, and one-eighth of an inch in thickness. 
Put each cake into a small sliding box, and sell at ten 
cents each. It is very saleable and you can make money fast 
by putting this up. It is new and has not been introduced 
as yet in many localities, and if you are first in the field you 
are sure to do a large business at it. Give it a trial. 

Glimmer Oliiii-npai^ne.— To four parts of seltzer 
water add one ounce of Moselle wine, or hock, and put a tea- 
spoonful of powdered sugar into a wineglassful ot this mixture; 
an ebullition takes place and you have a sort of champagne 
which is more wholesome in hot weather than the genuine wine 
known by that name. 

Deafness.— Take three drops of a sheep's gall, warm, 
and drop it into the oar before going to bed. Th« ear must be 



24 toung's book or secrets. 

Bj'ringed with warm soap and water in the morning. The gall 
must be applied for three successive nights. It is only efficaci- 
ous when the deafness is produced by cold. The most conven- 
ient way of warming the gall is by holding it in a silver spoon 
over the flame of a light. The above remedy has been frequently 
tried with perfect success. 

GrOiil:. — This is Col. Birch's receipt for rheumatic gout or 
acute rheumatism, commonly called in England the "Chelsea 
Pensioner." Half an ounce of nitre (saltpetre), half an ounce 
of sulphur-, half an ounce of flower of mustard, half an ounce of 
Turkej' rhubarb, quarter of an ounce of powdered guaicum. 
Mix, and take a teaspoonful every other night for three nights, 
and omit three nights, in a wineglassful of cold water, water 
which has been previously well boiled. 

Life Belts. — An excellent and cheap life belt, for per- 
sons proceeding to sea, bathing in dangerous i^laces, or learning 
to swim, may be thus made: — Take a yard and three-quarters of 
strong jean, double, and divide it into nine compartments. Let 
there be a space of two inches after each third compartment. Fill 
the compartments with very fine cuttings of cork, which can be 
had at any cork-cutting establishment. Work eylet holes at ihe 
bottom of each compartment to let the Mater drain out. Attach 
a neck-band and waist strings of stout boot web, and sew them 
on strongly. 

Bleedings fi'oiii tlie ISTo^e.— From whatever 
cause, may generally be stopped by putting a plug of lint into 
the nostrils; if this does not do, a]:)ply a cold lotion to ihe fore- 
head; raise the head, and place both arms over the head, so that 
it will rest on both hands; dip the lint plug, slightly moistened, 
into some powdered gum-arabic, and plug the nostrils again; or 
dip the plug into equal parts of joowdered gum-arabic and alum. 
An easier and simpler method is to place piece of writing paper 
on the gums of the upper jaw, under the upper liii, and let it 
remain there for a few minutes. 

{*4o5ix*lot; JFeT^ei*. — It is unnecessary for a child to die 
of scarlet fever as it is that it should be blind with cataract. Let 
us see. At any time before the body has finished its inifectual 
struggle we are able to help it, not by wonderful medicine, but 
by the knowledge of anatomy and the apjdication of a little com- 
mon sense. We consult the symiDathetic nerve, and do what it 
commands us to do. We must give this child salt when it wants 
it. We must give it acid when it has a fever and anxiously craves 
it — not vinegar, but lemon juice, because the first coagulates 
albiamen and the latter does not, on account of the amount of 
oxygen it contains. To imitate the soothing mucus in the intes- 
tines, which is now wanting, and to give some respiratory food 
at the same time, we add some gum arable. To restore aad relieve 
the injured nerve, we apply mcist warmth. 



young's book of srCRETS. 2o 

In practice we can fulfil all this with the following manipula- 
tions: — Undress the child and bring it to bed at the very first 
signs of sickness. Give it, if it has already fever, sourish warm 
lemonade, with some gum-arabic in it. Then cover its abdomen 
with some dry flannel. Take a well-folded bed sheet and put in 
boiling hot v/ater; wring it out by moans of dry towels and put 
this over the whole and wait. The hot cloth will perhaps require 
repeated heating. According to the severity of the case and its 
Btage of progress, perspiration will commence in the child, in 
from ten minutes to two hours. The child then is .saved; it then 
falls asleep. Soon after the child awakes, it shows slight incli- 
nation for food; help its bowels, if necessary, with injections of 
soap, oil and water, and its recovery will be as steady as the 
growth of a plant in the green-house if well treated. 

Of course if the child w^ere already dying nothing could save it, ' 
or if it has effusions in the lining of the heart or brain, it is much 
better that it should die. But if the above is applied in due time, 
under the eyes and directions of a com]ietent physician, I will 
guarantee that not one in a hundred children will ever die of . 
scarlet fever. I know this v/ill startle some of my readers, especi- 
ally those who have already lost children, but I shall go still 
further. I maintain that a child will never get scarlet fever if 
properly treated. If the child has correctly mixed blood it will 
never catch the scarlet fever if put in bed with a sick child. 
This is still more startling, but nothing easier got rid of. 

iPoisoiis. — As a general rule, give emetics after poisons 
that cause sleepiness and raving; chalk, milk, butter, and warm 
water, or oil, alter poisons that cause vomitings and pain in the 
stomach and bowels, vvith purging; and when there is no infla- 
mation about the throat, tickle it with a feather to excite vomiting. 
Always send immediately for a medical man. 

l^Xotlis. — A very pleasant perfume, and also preventive 
against moths, may be made of the following ingredients: — Take 
of cloves, carraway seods, nutmeg, mace, cinnamon, and Tonquin 
beans, of each one ounce; then add as much Florentine orris-root 
as will equal the other ingredients put together. Grind the whole 
well to powder, and then put it in little bags, among your 
clothes, etc. 

IE3iil<l Xlcacls. — A most valuable remedy for promoting 
the growth of the hair, is an application once or twice a day, of 
wild indigo, and alcohol. Take four ounces of wild indigo, and 
steep it about a week or ten days in a pint of alcohol, and a pint 
of hot water, when it will be ready for use. The head must be 
thoroughly washed with the liquid, morning and evening, appli- 
cation being made with a sponge or soft brush. Another excellent 
preparation is composed of three ounces of castor oil, with just 
enough alcohol to cut the oil, to which add twentj' drops tincture 
of cautharides, and perfume to suit. This not only softens and 



26 toung's book of seceets. 

imparts a gloss to the hair, but also invigorates and strengthens 
the roots of the hair. 

I>i'^^ Ooiigrli. — Take of powdered gum-arabic half an 
ounce I'liqiiorice-iince half an ounce. Dissolve ihe gum first in 
warm water, squeeze in the juice of a lemon, then add of paregoric 
two drachms; syrup of squills one drachm. Cork all in a bottle, 
and shake well. Take one teaspoonlul when the cough is 
troublesome. 

Blaclt Jf??illi !Revi^'er.— Boil logwood m water 
half an hour, then simmer the silk half an hour, take it out and 
put into the Vive a little bine vitriol, or green copperas; cool it 
and simmer the silk for half an hour. Or, boil a handful of fig 
leaves in two quarts of water until it is reduced to one pint; 
squeeze the leaves, and bottle the liquor for use. When wanted 
spoiige the silk with it. 

Boils-!!.— These should be brought to a head by warm poul- 
tices of camomile flowers, or boiled white lily root, or onion root 
by fermentation with hot water, or by stimulating plasters. 
When ripe they should be destroyed by a needle or lancet. But 
this should not be attempted until they are fully proved. 

Bullions!. — May be checked in their early development 
by binding the joint with adhesive plaster, and keeping it on as 
long as any uneasiness is felt. The baudaging should be perfect, 
and"it might be well to extend it round the foot, An intiamed 
bunion should be poulticed, and larger shoes be w^orn. Iodine 
twelve grains, lard or spermaceti ointment half an ounce, makes 
a eaptial ointment for bunions. It should be rubbed on gently 
twice or three times a day. 

Oaiitioii!*! ill Vi>5iitiii£>: tlie ^iels:.— Do net visit 
the sick when you are fatigued, "or in a state of perspiration, or 
vnih. the stomach empty- for in such conditions you are liable 
to take the infection. When the disease is very contagious, take 
the side of the patient which is near to the window. Do not 
enter the room the first thing in the morning before it has been 
aired; and when you conie away take some food, change yoiu* 
clothing immediately, and expose the latter to the air for some 
days. Tobacco smoke is a fine preventive of malaria. 

To Bejscti-oy tlie Ta^te oi' ]>le<lieiiie.— 
Have the medicine in a glass as usual, and a tumbler of water by 
the side of it, then take the medicine and retain it in the mouth, 
which should be kept closed, and if you then commence drinking 
the water the tas^te of the medicine is washed awaj'. Even the 
bitterness ot quinine and aloes, may be prevented by this means. 
Olaeap aiicl Ooocl Viiie^ai*.— To eight gallons 
of cle:ir rain wat» r, add three quarts of molasses; turn the mix- 
ture into a clean tight cask, shake it well two or three times, and 
add three spoonfuls of good yeast, or two yeast cakes, place the 
cask in a warm place, and in ten or twelve days add a sheet of 



young's book of seceets. 27 

common brown wrapping paper, smeared with molasses, and torn 
into narrow strips, and you will soon have good vinegar. The 
paper is necessary to form the "mother " or life of the vinegar. 

Oonoei*. — The following is said to be a sure cure for can- 
cer: — A piece of sticking plaster is put over the cancer, with a 
circular piece cut out of the centre, a little larger than the cancer, 
BO that the cancer and a small circular rim of healthy skin next 
to it is exposed. Then a plaster, made of chloride of zinc, blood 
root and wheat flour, is spread on a piece of muslin, the size of 
this circular opening, and applied to tlie cancer for twenty-four 
bouVs. On removing it, the cancer will be found burned into 
and appear of the color and hardness of an old shoe sole, and 
the circular rim outside of it will appear white and parboiled, as 
if scalded by hot steam. The wound is now dressed, and the 
outside rim soon separates, and the cancer comes out in a hard 
lump, and the place heals up. The plaster kills the cancer, so 
that it sloughs like dead flesh, and never grows again. The 
remedy was discovered by Dr. King, of London, and has been 
used by him for several years with unfailing success, and not a 
case has been known of the reappearance of the cancer when this 
remedy has been applied. 

J?iootliiiijy j!!»yi*Ti.j>. — Alcohol, oil of peppermint castor 
oil, of each one ounce; mix, add oil of anise, half drachm; mag- 
nesia, sixt}'- grains; pulverized ginger, fourty grains; water, two 
ounces; white sugar to form a syrup. 

S^ootliiii^ {!?43"viiX>. — Take one pound of honey; add 
two tal)lespoonfuis of paregoric, and the same of oil of anise seed; 
add enough water to make a thick syrup, and bottle. For child- 
ren teething, dose, teaspoonful occasionally. 

JBsili^i of l:5eai:i1:,y. — Pure soft water, one quart; 
pulverized Castile soap, four ounces; emulsion of bitter almonds, 
six ounces; rose and orange flower water, of each, eight ounces; 
tincture of benzoin, two drachms; borax, one drachm; add five 
grains bichloride of mercury to every eight ounces of the mixture. 
To use, apply on a cotton or linen cloth to the face, etc. 

Liqiiicl tor Forcing- tlie I5eai*<l.— Colonge, 
two ounces; liquid hartshorn, one drachm, tincture cantharides, 
two drachms; oil rosemarj^ twelve drops; lavender twelve drops. 
Apply to the face daily and await results. Said to be reliable. 

To Incretise tlie I^^Iotv of Mlillc in. 
Oo^WS. — Give your cows three times a day, water slightly 
warm, slightly salted, in which bran has been s'tirred at the rate 
of one quart to two gallons of water. You will find if you have 
not tried this daily practice, that the cow will give twenty-five 
per cent more milk, and she will become so much attached to 
the diet that she will refuse to drink clear water unless very 
thirsty, but this mess she will drink at almost any time, and ask 
for more. The amount of this drink necessary is an ordinary 



28 young's book of secrets. 

water-pail full each time, morning noon and night. Avoid giv- 
ing cows " slops," as they are no more fit for the animal than 
they are for the human. 

]>Jiiclx Biittex- fVom JL.ittle IVXilli.— Take 
four ounces pulverized alum, half an ounce pulverized gum- 
arabic, fifty grains of pepsin ; place it in a bottle for use as re- 
quired. A teaspoonful of this mixture added to one pint of new 
milk, will upon churning make one pound of butter. Agents 
are selling this secret for $5. 

To I^emove Orease.— Aqua ammonia, two 
ounces, soft water one quart, saltpetre one teaspoonful; shaving 
soap in shavings, one ounce; mix all together; dissolve the soap 
well, and any grease or dirt that cannot be removed with this 
preparation, nothing else need be tried for it. 

Il.eiiiecl>^ lx>i- nVeixi-alo'ia.— Hypophosphite of 
Boda taken in one drachm doses three times a day in beef tea is a 
good remedy for this painful affection. So is the application of 
bruised horseradish, or the application of oil of peppermint ap- 
plied lightly with a camel hair pencil 

•Tooltey 01ii.l>. — Spirits of wine five gallons orange- 
flower water one gallon, balsam of Peru, foiir ounces, essence of 
bergamot eight ounces, essence of musk eight ounces, essence of 
cloves four ounces, essence of neroli two ounces. 

Oeiitenraial Oolcl ]^Xe<lsil ^^iiiejsrar IVo. 
1. — Mix twenty-tive gallons of warm rain water, with four gal- 
lons molasses and one gallon of yeast, and let it ferment; you 
will soon have the best of vinegar; keep adding these articles in 
these proportions as the stock is sold. Use brewer's yeast. 

iF'oi' Gri'ooei's $*»alo. — Take three barrels; let one 
of them be your vinegar barrel; fill this last up before it is quite 
empty, with molasses, two gallons; soft water, eleven gallons; 
yeast, one quart; keeping these proportions in filling up the 
whole three barrels; sell the vinegar out of your old vinegar bar- 
rel as soon as it is ready, which will be in a short time; when 
nearly empty, fill it up with the fluid as before, and pass on to 
sell out of the next bai-rel; by the time it is disposed of go on to 
the last; then go back to the first, filling up your barrels in every 
case when nearly empty, and you will always keep a stock of 
good vinegar on hand unless your sales are very large; in which 
case, follow the next process. Have the bung-holes open in the 
barrels to admit air. The free admission of warm air hastens 
the ]irocess. Use brewers' yeast. 

V'iiiejLJrai* ill Tlii-ee !Oa:^^s.— Get a quantity of 
maple, beech, or basswood chips or shavings, and soak these in 
good vinegar, for two or three days. With these chips you will 
fill a barrel, which has been pierced with a large number of inch 
holes all around the sides for the free admission of air among 
the chips (the more holes in the barrel the better, for the more 



young's book of seceets. 29 

air the sooner tlio vinegar will be made); cut .another barrel in. 
fv/o halves, place one half below the barrel with tlie chips, and 
the other half above it. The top tub must have its bottom pier- 
ced with a number of gimlet holes, in which are placed several 
threads of twine, to conduct the vinegar evenly over the chips. 
The liquid drains down slowly through the chips and out of a 
faucet near the bottom of the barrel into the lower tub. It 
should run through every four hours, a^d then be baled or 
pumped back. Directions to make vinegar from sugar: Use 
one'an half pounds to each gallon of water; of the dregs of mo- 
lasses barrels, use two pounds to each gallon of water; small beer 
lager beer, ale, etc., which have become sour, make good vinegar 
by being reduced with water; small beer needs but little water, 
lager beer as much water as beer; to two gallons of cider, add 
half gallon of water; you can also make excellent vinegar out of 
the artificial cider mention below. Use, iuevery case, soft water 
to make vinegar, and use two quarts yeast to every barrel. It 
makes much quicker if the fluid is slightly lukewarm. Leach 
either of these preparations through the shavings. 

This process should be attended to during warm weather, or 
in a room where a pretty high temperature is kept up, as it will 
not work otherwise, 

Wlxite Wiiio Vinegrai*. — Mash up twenty pounds 
raisins, and add ten gallons of water; let it stand in a warm place 
for one month, and you will have pure white wine vinegar. The 
raisins may be used a second time the same way. 

Sicli Oaixax*ies. — Baker's sponge *cake dipped in 
sherry wine is strongly recommended for sick canary birds that 
have been moulting. The bird will no doubt eat sparingly of 
it, but the remedy is excellent. It has been known in many in- 
stances to restore the voice and health of canaries after shedding 
eighteen months and two years. Birds often continue moulting 
from weakness, and a short time feeding them on the cake and 
sherry, in connection with their seed, soon shows a beneficial 
effect. I woiald also advise not to give the bird any greens to 
eat, nor apples, while in the condition described. Canaries 
having asthma are relieved, and sometimes cured, by giving 
them a pap made of baker's bread boiled in sweet milk. In very 
bad cases, remove their seed for a few days and let them feed 
entirely upon it. The following treatment completely restored 
a fine singer which I had quite despaired of, as he had been 
sick and silent for months : Leave off seed entirely. Make a 
paste of sweet milk and bread crumbs, throwing the crumbs into 
the milk while boiling, and stir until quite smooth ; add a pinch 
of cayenne pepper, varied occasionally by some finely-minced 
clove or gaidic ; dissolve in the drinking water a little black cur- 
rant jelly, a bit of tig, or half a potash lozenge. I used all of 
these and my bird is well ; so to which the preference should be 



30 young's book of secrets. 

given I know not, though I incline to the jelly. It may take a 
long time to cure the bird, and if the troxible arises from hard- 
ness of the tongue, it must be painted daily with strong borax 
water. If he sneezes, a little olive-oil must be gently put \ip the 
nostrils. He should have plenty of tepid water to bathe in, 
celery, sweet apple, or lettuce. But by no means hang him close 
to the window, the cold is too severe, even in a moderately warm 
room, for a bird in delicate health. Paste must be fresh daily. 

To ]>l!eiicl Oi'ocliei'y.— No. 1. Four pounds of 
white glue, one and a half pounds dry white lead, one-half 
pound isinglass, one gallon soft water, one quart alcohol, one- 
lialf pint white varnish ; dissolve the glue and isinglass in the 
water by gentle heat if preferred ; stir in the lead, put the alco- 
hol in the varnish, and mix the whole together. 

S5icx"e>"V ill Plastoi*. — It often becomes desirable to 
insert screws into plaster walls without attaching them to any 
wood-work ; but when we turn them the plaster give«-way, and 
our effort is vain ; and yet a screw may be inserted in plaster, 
so as to hold light pictures, etc., very lirmly. Enlarge the hole 
to about twice the diameter of the screw, till it with plaster of 
Paris, such as is used for fastening the tops of lamps, etc., and 
bed the screw in the soft plaster. "SVhen the plaster has set the 
screw will hold like iron. 

Ctii'« ±oi' ITever niicl Ag-iie. — One-half ounce 
spirits nitre, one-half ounce tincture pepper, thirty-live grains 
quinine, one pint of brandy. Take a wineglassful three times a 
day, one-half hour before meals. If for a child, give only half 
the quantity. 

Extii'patioii of OoelvT-oaolxes.— Common 
red wafers, to be found at any stationer's, will answer the pur- 
jiose. The cockroaches eat them and die. Also, sprinkle jpoio- 
dered 6ora.c plentifully around where " they most do congregate," 
and renew it occasionally ; in a short time not a roach will be 
seen. This is a safe and most effectual exterminator. 

To Oleaii Old Bin civ JsJillt.— Grate two pota- 
toes into a quart of water ; let it stand to settle, and then drain 
it off clear. Lay a breadth of the silk— from which you have 
wiped off all the dust with a flannel rag— outside upward on a 
clean cloth spread over an ironing blanket. Sponge it across 
the breadtli well ; fold it up, taking care to keep the wetted side 
upward. Do all the breadths, laying them each aside ; then iron 
them with a hot iron, having a thin piece of linen, or an old 
handkerchief, spread over the silk under the iron ; this will pre- 
vent the silk from shining. Chloroform will cleanse the finest 
silks, and remove spots without injury to the fabric. 

To HeiioA-ate Blacit "!5*illi:.— Two ounces soap 
bark (to be had at an^' drug store) soaked over night in one qwart 
of rain-water. Pour off the water from the bark in the morning 



YOtJNG S BOOS: OF SlICi^iiTS. 31 

and sponge the silk thoroughlj'- on both sides, and Imng smoothly 
on a clothes-horse to dr3% Do not iron. Ohl and soiled black 
silks have been made to look somewhere ai)proaching to new- 
ness and more than respectable by this process. 

A. JHLeiixecl;^^ ioi* I^lieuLiiititij^iii. — Four ounces 
saltpetre m one pint ot alcohol ; shake well and bathe parts 
affected ; wetting red flannel with it ; lay it on. It does not 
cure, but takes away the redness, reduces the swelling, and re- 
lieves the torment and agonj". 

1?o Oi'ive -A.>-v«y A-rtts. — Put red pepper in tho 
places the ants frequent the most, and scrub the shelves or 
drawei'S with strong carbolic soap. 

To T2-eiTio>"e "I^ed ]>Xites" fi-osn Oaii- 
ax^ios. — Put into the cage as a perch one or more hollow 
sticks, with holes cut into them at short distances as in a cane 
pipe. The insects crawl into these, and can easily be knocked 
or shaken out, or destroyed by letting hot water run through 
the sticks. This should be done every day till the bird is re- 
lieved. Hang a piece of new white flannel in the cage at night 
next the perch so that it shades the bird from the light. In the 
morning you will find the mites on the flannel ; wash, or put in 
a new piece the following night, and continue doing so until 
they are all removed. It is also well to scald the cage. The 
perches should be of red cedar wood. 

Ho^v to OiiT^e X>i*-Bi.iili:oiiiiess. — Sulphate of 
iron, five grains ; peppermint water, eleven drachms ; spirit of 
nutmeg, one drachm ; one tablespoonfiil twice a day. This 
preparation acts as a stimulant and tonic, and supplies the place 
ot tlie accustomed liquor. 

To I^estore T^el>'et. — "Where velvet has been 
crushed, hold the wrong side over a basin of quite boiling water, 
^nd the pile will gradually rise. Do not lose patience, for it 
takes a considerable time, but tlie result is marvellous. 

Hail* liiestorative. — A tea made by pouring one 
pint of boiling water on two tablespoonfuls of dried rosemary 
leaves, with a wineglassful of rum added, is excellent. 

To Molten -tlie Jrla-iids.— Before retiring, take a 
large pair of old gloves and spread mutton tallow inside, also all 
over the hands. Wear the gloves all night, and wash the hands 
with olive-oil and white castilo soap the next morning. 

To U/eiiiove Wliite S5»t?xins fr-oiii I^ur- 
nitiii'O.— Have ready three pieces of woolen cloth, with one 
wx'U dipped in lamp oil (or if that is not convenient linseed oil), 
rub the spot briskly, wet the second with alcohol and apply to 
oily surface, rubbing quickly, as too much alcohol will destroy 
the varnish, and finally polish with the third cloth, moistened 
with oil or furniture polish. 



32 young's book of sEcnExa. 

J*»oa.x> !M!a,iiiifliet"XE.i'o. — Whon wood ashes cannot 
conveuieutly be bad it is ustual for soap manufactures to use 
equal quantities of recently slacked lime, and sal-soda, soda ash 
or caustic soda, using water enough to give the ley sufi&cient 
strength to support a fresh egg. It must be very strong. The 
solution can be effected by heut, or stirring, or by both methods, 
finally drawing off, or bailing out the liquid clear of sediment, 
previously throwing in salt and giving time for the sediment to 
settle; one ton of yellow soap will require about a thousand 
pounds tallow and three hundred an tifty poiinds resin, with 
ley sufficient. The same quantity of white soap will require 
nearly thirteen hundred pounds tallow, boiling in every case 
with the proper quantity of ley, until it forms a perfectly hom- 
ogeneous mass by a perfect blending of the component parts all 
together, when it is poured out into suitable frames to harden 
and cool. It is afterward cut up into proper sized bars by means 
of wires to which handles are attached and then piled up to dr3^ 

5*4oliil OiVii<llo55» li'oiii Lin'cl.— Dissolve quarter 
pound alum, and quarter pound saltpetre, in half pint water on a 
slow fire; then take three pounds of lard cut into small pieces, 
and put into the pot with this solution, stirring it constantly 
over a very moderate fire until the lard is all dissolved; then let 
it simmer until all steam ceases to rise and remove it at once 
from the fire. If you leave it too long it will get discolored. 
These candles are harder and better than tallow. 

To FliiA'Oi* Toi>s;vc*<?o. — This is done by means of 
a mixture of one part each of lemon peel, orange peel, tigs, 
corriander seed and sassafras; halt part each of elderflowers, 
elderberries, and cinnauiou ; two parts of saltpetre, three of salt, 
and four of sugar. This mixture most be digested in fifty parts 
of water, and, before applying it flavor with an alcoholic solution 
of gum benzion, mastic, and n)yrrh. It is said that this decoc- 
tion gives a flavor to common leaves resembling Porto liico, but 
to this end the leaves must be well dried, about a year old, well 
permeated with the preparation, kept in a pile for eight days, 
turned daily, and finally dried. 

navoi" loi' Oi*»'iiV 3Xuli:ei*s. — Take two ounces 
Tonqua beans, and one ounce cinnamon; bruise and pulverizs 
them to a powder, and put tlunn into one pint of Santa Cruze 
rum; let it stand for a few days to macerate; stir all together, 
and with this liquid siiriuklo your common or inferior tobacco. 
Dry out of the sun, and the flavor will be unequalled. 

XJiiei'i'iii^j To«t loi" g'ood noiir*.— Good 
flour is white, with a j^ellowish or straw-color tint. Squeeze some 
of the flour in your hand; if good, it will retain the shape given 
by pressure. Knead a little between your fingers; if it works 
soft and sticky, it is poor. Throw a little against a dry perpen- 
dicular surface; if it fall like powder, it is bad. 



TOTING S BOOK OF SECRETS. 33 

TiTnisparent J^oai>.~Slice six pounds nice vellow 
bc-ir-so.ip into shavings; put into a brass, tin or copper kettle, 
witii alcoliol, half gallon; heating gradually over a slow fire, stir- 
ring till all is dissolved; then add one ounce sassafras essence, 
and stir until all is mixed; now pour into pans about one an half 
inches deep, and when cold cut into square bars the length or 
width of the pan, as desired. 

To Oorrect Mliist^- Floui-.— Carbonate of 
magnesia, three pounds; flour, seven hundred an sixty-five 
pounds; mix. This improves bad flour, causing it to become 
more wholesome, producing lighter and better bread than 
wl^ alum is used, and absorbs and dissipates the musty smell. 

Patent J^ielf-K^aisiiijo: JTlonr.— Kiln-dried 
flour, one cwt. ; tartaric acid, ten ounces; mix thoroughly. After 
two or three days, add, of bicarbonate of soda, twelve ounces; 
lump sugar half pound; common salt one an half pounds. Mix 
and pass through the " dressing machine." Have all the articles 
perfectly dry, and separately reduced to fine powder before add- 
ing to the flour. Mix with cold water, and bake at once. It 
produces light and porous bread. 

To Oixi'e Bwttei-.— Take two parts of fine salt; one 
part loaf sugar; one part saltpetre; mix completely. Use one 
ounce of this mixture to each pound of butter; work well. Bury 
your butter firkins in the earth in your cellar bottom, tops near- 
ly level with the ground, or store away in a very cool place 
covering the butter with a clean cloth and a strong brine on the 
top, and It will keep two years if desired. 

To Keep Bixtter clui-ing^ Hot \^eatli- 
ei'.— A simple mode of keeping butter in Avarm weather is to 
invert a large crock of earthen, or a flour pot if need be (varyin^y 
witb the size of the vessel containing the butter), over the dish 
or firkin in which the butter is held. The porousness of the 
earthenware will keep the butter cool, and all the more so if the 
pot be wrapped in a wet cloth, with a little water in the dish 
with the butter. Not the porosity of the earthenware, but the 
rapid absorption of heat by external evaporation causes the but- 
ter to become hard. 

Pi-eiiiimii 3Ietlio<l oF Iceepiii^ Hams 

ete.— io tour gallons of water, add eight pounds coarse salt- 
quarter ounce potash; two ounces saltpetre; two pounds brown 
sugar. Boil together, skim when cold, put on the above quanti- 
ty to one hundred pounds meat; hams to remain in eight weeks, 
beef, t_hree weeks. Let the hams drv several days before smokl 
mg. Meat of all kinds, saliiion and other fish, lobsters, etc 
may be i)reserved for years by a light application of pyroligneous 
acid applied with a brni3h, sealiug up in cans as usual. It im- 
parts a splendid flavor to the meat, is very cheap, an and 
ettectual preservative against loss. 



34 young's book of secrets. 

-ZEi'atecl !Oi*ca.cl. — une pound flonr, one bun^Jrod 
grains carbonate of soda; sixty grains common salt; one teaspoon 
powdered sugar; bundred an twenty grains muriatic acid, more 
or less, according to its strengtb; one wine pint of water, inferior 
flour will require less. Well mix tbe flour, soda, salt, and sugar 
in a eartben vessel, tben add tbe acid mixed witb tbe water, stir 
witb a wooden spoon. Bake in one loaf about one bour. Bake 
in tin or iron pans, but avoid tbe use of metallic vessels or spoons 
wbile mixing. 

To tie»tox-e I^aiicicl 13 utter". —Use one pint 
water to eacli pound of butter, previously adding twenty grains 
cbloride of lime to eacb pint of water; wasb well tbe butter in 
tbis mixture, afterward re-wasb in cold water and salt; or melt 
tbe butter in a water batb witb animal cbarcoal, coarsely powd- 
ered and previously well sifted to free it from dust; skim, remove, i 
and strain tbrougb flannel; tben salt. 

Tomato Osrtssnii>.— Boil one busbel of tomatoes till 
tbey are soft, squeeze tbeiu tbrougb a line wii-e sieve; add one an 
balf pints of salt, two ounces cayenne pepper, and five beads of i 
onions, skinned and separated; mix togetber, and boil till reduced 
one balf; tben bottle. 

Tlie TVoi-tlieni-X^ig-lit I3iii'iiiiig' ITlviicl- 
— Get good deodorized benzine, sixty to sixty-five gravity, and 
to eacb barrel of fortj^-two gallons, add two pounds pulverized 
alum, tbree an balf ounces gum campbor, and tbree an balf 
ounces oil of sassafars, or two ounces oil bergamot; stir up and 
mix tborougbly togetber, and it will soon be ready for use. 
N. B. — As tbis fluid creates a mucb larger volume of ligbt and 
flame tban carbon oil, it is necessary to use eitbera bigb burner, 
sucb as tbe sun burner, to elevate tbe flame away from tbe lamp 
in order to keep it cool, or instead tbereof, to use a burner pro- 
vided witb a tube for tbe escape of tbe gas generated from tbe 
fluid, sucb, for instance, as tbe Meriden burner. 

"iToLing-'s Olieiisr WiiitS" ^tai*clx r*olijs:li. 
— Tliis article bas undoubtedly bael a more extensive sale 
tbrougb agents tban any otber article used in tbe bousebold. It 
is a meritorious one, and will always find sale if our directions 
are followed. Care miist be taken to procure tbe ingredients 
marked as%e give it. 

DIKECTIONS AND RECIPE. 

Procure from your druggist an article of commerce called and 
marked A 1 (not B 1), but A 1 parafiine wax. It must be tbe 
bardest wax made. If an inferior grade is used it will not pro- 
duce the same result as tbe best A 1 wax. Please buy no otber. 
Place your parailine in a tin boiler or pan, or pail, or kettle, as is 
most convenient. INIelt it over a slow fire. Use care in melting. 
Wben melted tborougbly remove tbe vessel from tbe fire ; cover 
it to keep tbe liquid bot. Take some round tin pie pans, and 



YOUNGS BOOK OF SECEETS. 3o 

oil them with sweet oil as j^ou would for pie baking, but do not 
use lard. Put these pans on a level table, and pour in enoni^h 
of the hot wax to make a depth in each pan equal to about the 
thickness of one-eighth of an inch. While hot glance over the 
pans to see that they are level. As this is very essential, please 
remember it. If the pans are not level, the cakes will be all 
thicknesses, which should not be so. Let them cool, but not 
too fast. Watch them closely, and have a tin stamp ready to 
stamp the cakes out about the size of an ordinary' candy lozenge. 
This stamp should be about eight inches long, larger at the top 
than at the bottom, so that the cakes can pass up through the 
stamp as you are cutting them out of the pans. Lay the cakes 
in another pan to cool. Before they become very hard separate 
them from each other ; if not it will be difficult to do so Avhen 
they become very hard. Do not neglect this. Have boxes made 
at any paper box makers in any large city. They cost about 
from one to two cents each ; sliding Ijoxes are the best. Have 
your labels printed, and commence business at once. This is a 
staple article. Wholesale grocers throughout the United States 
generally have it in stock. You can wholesale it to them, or re- 
tail it to families. This one Secret is worth one hundred times 
the price of this book. It has been manufactured by the pub- 
lisher of this book since 1863, and there has been a constant de- 
mand for it. 

■yoiiiijir'.s Tiii'lcisli ox* Fi-oz:eix DPei— 
fn.ii:ie.S.— This is a saleable, cheap, and meritorious Solidihed 
Perfume. Perhaps no article of luxury has had such a con- 
tinuous sale. The demand has never "diminished. In 1863 — 
simultaneous with the introduction of the Starch Polish— we in- 
troduced this novelty— Solidified Ferfame. The sales have been 
simply enormous. We are selling this perfume as fast as ever, 
and we feel that the world is wide, and room for all, and have 
determined to publish the correct Recipe in this hook, and M^e 
vouch for its reliability, as any one can test by calling on the 
publisher of this book, at his manufactory, 173 Greenwich street, 
New York, where this perfume is made nearly every day to fill 
orders. It is easily and cheaply made. The U. S. Revenue De- 
partment requires every person manufacturing this article to 
place a one cent proprietary stamp on every box sold. Please re- 
member this. 

RECIPE AND DIRECTIONS. 

Procure A 1 Paraffine wax from any wholesale druggist. Be 
sure to get the hard A 1 wax. Melt it over a slow fire in an}'- tin 
vessel ; care should be taken not to let it burn. Be particular 
about this. When melted remove it from the fire, and cover the 
top of the vessel. Now, you must remember that Solidified Per- 
fumes cannot be successfully made while hot, but they must be 
warm. The heat drives out the perfume, and counteracts The 



36 young's book or seceets. 

eflfects of the essential oils used for perfuming purposes. For 
the perfume you must use only the strongest essential oils. Light 
extracts are worthless. Take two ounces oil lemon grass, and 
one-half ounce oil cloves, and one-quarter ounce oil lavender 
flowers ; mix them well together. For this amount of perfume 
you require about four quarts of the liquid paraffine. Pour the 
oils into the melted paraffine while warm, stirring it well while 
pouring. Have ready round pie pans, well oiled with olive oil. 
Pour in the perfumed wax until you have about one quarter inch 
in depth of the melted liquid Perfume in each pan. Be sure to 
have your pans level on the table. Have a tin stamp ready to use 
to cut the cakes out at the proper time. This stamp should be 
made larger at the top than at the bottom. It should be square. 
The stamp that w^e use is one and three-eighths inches long, and 
one iiich wide at the stamping point. It is a little larger at the 
top. The edges are filed sharp as a knife, and kept so constantly. 
Stamp the cakes out when they are cooling, before they get too 
hard to cut. You must use your eyes, your hands, and common 
sense and good judgment at this stage of its maniifacture. If it 
is too cold and hard you cannot cut it. If too soft your punch 
will stick to the soft wax. Watch it closely, and you cannot 
fail to have the best results. Lay the square cakes in pans to 
cool, or if your punch does not draw them up from the pan you 
are stamping, let them remain in the original pan until cold 
enough to box up. Use gilt boxes the size of the cake. Put 
your own price on them. They are worth 15 to 25 cents retail. 
Reckon your cost of manufacture, and regulate your wholesale 
price accordingly. We consider this information worth one 
thousand dollars to any smart, active man or woman. We mean 
just what we say. One thousand dollars is a mere song for this 
recii)e. We have kept one man stamping out this solidified 
perfume for six consecutive years. Any child of good common 
sense can make it. Although we introduced it in 1863, we have 
not manufactured it continually during that time. We made it 
for six years, and then laid it aside. We have now commenced 
its manufacture again. It sells well now. We are making it 
from the above recipe. You have the right and privilege to do 
the same. But remember we do not give you the privilege to 
publish this recipe for sale. We give you the right to manu- 
facture the goods and sell ihem. If the recipe is sold, you must 
buy this book and sell them this book containing the recipe. 
We own the copyright for this article, and we will protect it. The 
books we will sell you at a liberal discount from the retail price. 
But manufacturing the goods for market is the business you 
should give your attention to. 



young's book of SECEET3. 87 

ADVERTISED SECRETS. 



We here publish some of the advertised Secrets which we our- 
selves have bought from time to time during the past twenty 
years. Some of these Secrets we have sent $5.00 for, many we 
have paid $1.00 for, and others we have sent 50 cents to the 
sSlf-styled " owners " for a coj)y. "We do not claim that fortunes 
can be made from them, neither do we say that there cannot. 
We publish them as we received them. For what has cost us 
about $290 to collect from the different parties advertising these 
Secrets we give for a mere trifle, and these Secrets are now as 
much yonr property to manufacture or use as the particular in- 
dividuals from whom they were purchased by us. 

Ai¥iei*iean. Grin. ^witHoul: I>istillatioii. 
at S*iixteen Oeiits i^er IPint-. — To make this com- 
pound it is necessary to procure clean rectified spirit, either 
proof or in one five under proof, which can be procured at any 
of the distillers. Procure one gallon of proof spirit, and one 
ounce of juniper berries, and let them steep together for a 
week, then take a quarter of an ounce of the oil of juniper 
berries, and with this add ten drops of the oil of turpentine and 
five drops of the oil of sweet fennel seeds. Rub these three 
oils together with a sufficient quantity of loaf sugar to absorb 
the oils, after which add gradually the eighth of a pint of recti- 
fied spirits of wine. Stir it till the whole is thoroughly incor- 
por/'rted and mix it well in the proof spirits. The next day add 
half a pint of clean lime-water and fine it with a bit of rock 
alum the size of a pea. Strain off when clear — add two or three 
quarts of sweetened water to bring it to the strength of what is 
termed extra strong or strong ; this will produce twelve or four- 
teen pints of American Gin, at a cost of little more than 16 cents 
per pint. 

I*i*oiiiin.iii ]>Xea<l. ^Fermented mead is made in the 
proportion of one pound of honey to three pints of water, or by 
boiling over a moderate fire till the quantity is reduced one 
third, three parts water and one part honey. The liquor is then 
skimmed and casked, care being taken to keep the cask full 
while fermenting, diiring which process the cask is left un- 
stopped and exposed to the sun, or in a warm room, until the 
working cease. The cask is then bunged, and in a few months 
the cellar rendei*s it fit for use. Mead is rendered more vinous 
and pleasant by the addition of cut raisin, or other fruits, boiled 



38 young's ecok of seceets. 

in the proportion of half a pound of raisins to six pounds of 
honey, with a toasted crust of bread ; an ounce of salt of tartar 
in a glass of brandy being added to the liquor when casked, to 
which some add five or six drops of the essence of cinnamon ; 
others pieces of lemon peel, with various syrups. This is not 
only a splendid beverage for home consumption, but will sell 
readily at any public resort. 

Ale >vi"tlxoii.'t ]>I]o.lit ov Hox:>s. — No production 
in this country abounds so much with saccharine matter as the 
shells of green peas. A strong decoction of them so much re- 
sembles, in odor and taste, an infusion of malt (termed wort), as 
to deceive a brewer. This decoction, rendered slightly bitter 
with the wood sage, and afterward fermented with yeast, affords 
a verj' excellent beverage. The method employed is as follows : 
Fill a boiler with the green shells of peas, pour on water till it 
rises half an inch above the shells, and eimmer for three hours. 
Strain off the liquor, and add a strong decoction of the wood 
sage, or the hop, so as to render it pleasantly bitter ; then fer- 
ment in the usual manner. The wood sage is the best substitute 
for hops ; and being free from any anodyne property is entitled 
to a preference. Boil a fresh quantity of shells in the decoction, 
and when cold, it may be thoroughly impregnated with saccha- 
rine matter, as to afford a liquor, when fermented, as strong as 
ale. 

J^iniple U-emody fbi* Astl:aiiia.— The Reper- 
toire de Fharniacie gives the following simple remedy for the 
Asthma : Take a strong saturated solution of nitrate of potassa ; 
dip tinder into it, and then allow it to dry. Procure a wide- 
mouth phial, the cork of which has an aperture in the centre, so 
as to admit anj'' hollow tube wliatever— a pipe closed at the end 
for example. Light the piece of tinder and place it in the phial. 
Then cause the patient to inhale the gases that are disengaged, 
either through the mouth or nostrils. At the end of a lew respi- 
rations he will find relief which will augment. In regard to an 
explanation of this mode of treatment, it is supposed that a small 
portion of oxygen, disengaged by the combuf^tion of the nitrate 
of potassa, is inhaled by the patient. It is known that m asth- 
matic patients the sanguinous circulation is incomplete in the 
lungs, and the blood is imperfectly regenerated, that it is black, 
and does not burn its excess of carbon. By the oxygen absorbed, 
therefore, combustion may be facilitated. 

OlT^'cei'iiie Oeiiieiit.— Professor Hirzel has dis- 
covered an important use of glycerine. When glj'^cerine is 
mixed with fine and well dried litharge, it yields a cement that is 
capable of a large number of applications. All metals and nearly 
all solid bodies can be bound together by this cement ; it is said 
to harden under wat-^r as readily as in the air, and to resist a 
temperature of 500 deg. It is especially lecommended for such 



young's book of secrets. 39 

pieces of apparatus as are exposed to the action of clilorine ; 
hydrochloric acid, sulphuric acid, sulphurous acid, and nitric 
acid ; also the vapor of alcohol, ether, and bisulphide of carbon, 
as none of these agents act upon it. The cement can be used in 
Bteam engines, pumps, foundations for machinery, and finally, 
as a substitute for plaster in galvano-plaster and electro-plating. 
The preparation of glycerine and litharge to be taken must de- 
pend somewhat upon the consistency of the cement, and its pro- 
posed uses. An excess of glycerine would retard the setting, as 
it does not readily evaporate. 

TSoi-cleaiix: TV'ine Iniitateil. — Take a quart of 
tine American cider, and an equal quantity of port wine, mix 
and shake them, put the mixed liquor in bottles, and cork them 
well, and let the bottles be laid on their sides. In one month it 
will be a \evy good imitation of foreign Bordeaux wine. 

Gri'eat J\.r*t of Watei'pi'ooliiig' Oloth. — 
For many years I have worn India rubber waterproof ; but I 
will buy no more, for I have learned that good Scottish tweed 
can be made completely impervious to rain, and, moreover, I 
have learned how to make it so ; and for the benefit of the 
jifiblic I have been led to sell this recipe, which is as follows : 
In a pail of soft water piit half a pound of sugar of lead (the 
acetate of lead), and half a pound of alum ; stir this at intervals 
until it becomes clear ; then pour it off into another pail, and 
put the garments therein, and let it be in for twenty-four hours, 
and then hang it "^p to dry w'ithout wringing it. Two of my party 
— a lady and gentleman — have worn garments thus treated in the 
wildest storm of wind and rain without getting wet. The rain hangs 
upon the cloth in globules ; in short, they are really waterproof. 
A fortnight ago I walked nine miles in a storm of wind and rain, 
such as yoiij^-arely see, and when I slipped oflf my overcoat my 
unilerclothls were as dry as w'hen I put them on. This is, I 
think, a secret worth knowing ; for cloth, if it can be made to 
keep out wet, is in every way better tban what we know as water- 
proof. 

Ho^w to I^aij*;e the "Vinegrii' X*laiit. — 
"SVhat is popularly known as the vinegar plant is only a form of 
the "mother of vinegar," which is, again, only a state of common 
mold. The manner of obtaining it is as follows : Leave a little 
vinegar in a small bottle to become stale (during hot, close 
weather is best), till a film appears on the surface. This film is 
the spciwn or mycelium of a species of mildew, and is th.e in- 
cipient state of the vinegar plant proper. If a few fragments of 
coarse brown sugar be now added, it will somewhat aid ita 
growth ; but when the film has attained the thickness of parch- 
ment, it is ready for transfer to syrup, where it soon becomes 
the housewife's normal vinegar plant. Procure a largo jar or 
botitle, and to two quarts of boiling water add half a pound of 



40 young's BOOIt OF SECKBTS. 

molasses, and half a pound of the commonest browii sugar ; stir 
all these ingredients well together, and when cool transfer the 
film from the surface of the vinegar to the surface of the syrup ; 
cover up to exclude air, and keep in a warm cupboard. This 
film will rapidly grow and form a thick, slippery gelatinous 
mass all over the surface of the syrup, and in course of six weeks 
or so the liquid will be changed to excellent vinegar. The vine- 
gar plant can now be taken and divided into layers, or cut up 
into fragments, each piece of which if placed upon fresh syrup 
will rajndly grow and change the liquor into vinegar. The vine- 
gar should be allowed to settle and be strained before it is used. 

Fisli Oxilture. — How to Secuee nearly Double the 
USUAL Product in Fish Raising, — I have closely observed the 
habits of many of the fishes that inhabit our southern streams, 
and among others the trout. Here they are migratory, or at 
least they leave the small streams in October, and return to them 
in March. They spawn in April, and the young brood are hatched 
out in a few days. Now my plan for increasing the yield is to 
have the eggs of the trout and other fishes well protectedan 
their natural bed, where deposited by the mother, by placing 
over it a frame of fine wire net or cloth. But little attention is 
needed to find the nest of the trout or other fish ; then as soon 
as the eggs are all deposited you have only to put the wire net 
over the nest and it will keep off nearly all of the fish and in- 
sects that pray on the eggs. In this way I think you may be 
sure of 75 per cent, of the eggs producing young trout, and as 
these reniain near the nest till old enough to escape from most of 
the dangers of their infant state, the wire net will save nearly 
all of them. 

'* IMad isJtoii.es." — How to Find, How to Prepare, and 
How TO Use the Great Natural Eemedy for Brw of Poison- 
ous OR Rabid Animals. — There are several possessors of what 
are called "mad stones," and each of these persons is regarded 
as peculiarly fortunate to possess the article, which has, in many 
cases, been handed down irom generation to generation, or has 
been purchased at a high price. The wonders achieved by such 
stones have many witnesses in their respective sections, and a 
single little stone has yielded its onvs-ner a handsome income, as 
persons bitten by snakes, mad dogs, etc., will readily pay $2 to 
$10 merely to be allowed to apply the marvelous stone to the 
wound. The finding of these stones has been so far mere chance. 
I propose to tell how they can be obtained with greater certainty. 
In nearly every section there is what is known as "red shale" 
or "red shell," and also of a darker color, a nearly black variety 
of similar rocks. Among si^ecimens of both these minerals will 
be found occasionally one very porous or absorbent. Try one 
of these on the tongue ; when one is found that will adhere 
strongly it is suitable to use. Grind down to convenieE* shape, 



young's book of secrets. 41 

■with a flat surface. In this way several Rpecimens have been 
found which on comparison proved exactly like the famous one 
owned by the Pointer tamily, of Halifax Coiinty, Virginia, for 
fifty years, and performing many cures. Should you have any 
difficulty in finding anj- of these natural "mad stones," I have 
learned how artificial ones may be manufactured, possessing 
equal value ; indeed, such is the secret of the great East Indian 
" i:)amboo-kaloo " remedy in cases of wounds by venomous ser- 
pents, of which are given many well authenticated instances of 
its virtue when the patient was bitten by the deadly cobra di 
capello. The stone is intensely black and highly polished, and, 
being porous, rapidly imbibes the blood and with it the poison. 
Tlip stone adheres for a few minutes, like the " mad stone," 
then drops off. Analj'sis of one of these has shown it is a piece 
of charred bone, evidence of which is afforded both by the aper- 
ture of cells or tubes on its surface and by the fact that it ex- 
hibits an organic structure within. When heated, water and 
ammonia escape, and finally the carbon burns away, leaving a 
white ash which is phosphate of lime. The snake charmers 
from the coast also visit Ceylon proper to prepare the snake 
stones themselves, and to preserve the composition a secret ; the 
manufacture of them is a lucrative trade carried on by the monks 
of Manilla, who supply the merchants of India. The Mexicans 
also have a snake stone, piedra ponsona, which is substantially 
the same as those above mentioned. To make it, it is only ne- 
cessary to procure a sound, solid piece of horn, hart's horn is 
considered best, and roast slowly until thoroughly charred 
throughout. This is the whole secret of making, and the pro- 
duct will be found to have all the merits possessed by any 
already celebrated for their cures. In using either the natiiral 
or artificial, the wood must be slightly moistened with water or 
spittle, or what would be even better, a little spirits of harts- 
horn. The stone is to be then pressed into the wound and 
allowed to adhere until it drops off. Cures are reported in even 
severe cases in from eight to twelve hours. One, to my own 
knowledge, applied in a case of bite by a copperhead snake and 
effected a complete cure in twelve hours. The patient was very 
sick and delirious. 

Miag-ical DPfiint: Oleanei*.— Provide a plate with 
some of the best whiting to be had, and have ready some clean 
warm water and a piece of flannel, which dip into the water and 
squeeze nearly dry; then take as much whiting as will adhere to 
it, apply it to the painted surface, when a little rubbing will 
instantly remove any dirt or grease. After which wash the part 
well with clean water, rubbing it dry with a soft chamois. Paint 
t-lius cleaned looks as well as when first laid on, without any 
injur}' to the most delicate colors It is far better than using 
sorvp, and does not require more than half the time and labor. 



42 young's book of secrets. 

Oai^tfiiiTL ^iiie Hall's*; Heinedy fbs- 
"LiOT^e of Hti'oiig" Di'iiili.— Sulphate of iron, five 
grains ; peppermint water, eleven drachms ; spirit of nutmeg, 
one drachm. To be taken tM*ice a da,y in doses of about a vv'ine- 
glassful or less, with or without water. This recipe is not only 
an inestimable boon to the victim of strong drink, but properly 
''pushed "is capable of yielding a handsome income from its 
manufacture. This remedy is prepared by different persons 
under different titles, and sold at from $1 to $5 per bottle. 

Exicelsioi- A-xle GS-i-easc— Take one part good 
plumbago (black lead) sifted through a coarse muslin so as 
to be perfectly free from grit, and stir it into five quarts 
of lard, warmed so as to be stirred easily without melting. 
Stir vigorously until it is smooth and uniform. Then raise 
the heat until the mixture melts. Stir constantly, remove 
Irom the fire, and keep stirring until cold. Apply cold 
to the axle or any other bearing with a brush. If intended 
for use where the axle or bearing is in a warm apartment, as 
the interior of mills, etc., two ounces of hard tallow or one 
ounce of beeswax, may be used to every ten pounds of the mix- 
ture. This grease is cheaper in use than oil, tallow or tar, or 
any compound of them, and can be sold at a good profit in any 
thickly settled country. 

I^o^^al I5viti^lx ^Vasliing: PoA^^dei*, 
Hai'cl Wfitei* l^Xacle Holit.— The Laundresses' 
Assistant, warranted not to injure the finest fabric. No acid, no 
potash. In the wash room it saves time, labor, expense, muscle, 
temper and hands. The clothes will come out clean and white, 
without wear or tear, or rubbing on wash-boards, therefore will 
last twice as long. For house cleaning it is unequaled. One 
girl can wash more clothes, paint, walls, windows or floors in a 
day with perfect ease, with this powder, than she could in tonr 
days with hard labor, soap and scru.bbing brush; and the paint 
will look new and bright. It only requires to be tested to be 
appreciated. If it does not give satisfaction, we will refund the 
money. 

Eecipe,— Mix any quantity of soda ash with an equal portion of 
carbonate of soda, (ordinary soda) crushed into coarse grains. 
Have a thin solution of glue, or decoction of linseed oil ready, 
into which pour the soda until quite thick. Spread it out on 
boards in a warm apartment to dr^^ As soon as dry, shake up 
well so that it will pack easily into nice square packages. Label 
neatly. Pound packages ought not to cost over seven cents, 
ready for market; these retail readily for thirty-five cents 

Iwxpei-ial Fly I'aii^ei', or- "Oateli 'Eiix 
A.li>^e Oil ! "—You must take linseed oil, no other will do, 
and put it into a strong iron pot. The pot must be third full 
only, and must have a lid that fits closely. You bring the oil to 



young's book of seceets, 43 

n boil and then set fire to it on top as well. This operation can only- 
he carried on out doors. When it has been afire about forty min- 
utes put on the lid to quench it and then take a little out on a 
stick and cool it to see whether it is thick enough. If not boil 
and burn again twentj'' minutes more, and so on until it is thick 
enough. Some oil requires long as four or five hours, some 
longer yet and some less.. When of the right consistency, about 
like thick New Orleans molasses, it can be brushed on stout 
manilla (brown) paper. When rigiitly made it v>'ill remain sticky 
for six months. It can be made cheaper and quicker if some 
common ronin, cracked up into coarse powder, is put into it (one 
pound rosin to a gallon of oil) but it dries up quicker; still this 
kind is good enough for general use. The sheets of paper should 
be about the size of letter paper and with a crease in the middle, 
and when covered with the compound should be folded so that 
the covered parts come together. They can then be packed and 
carried without injury to anything else. When wanted they can 
be easily pulled apart. The sheets are a ready sale at five cents 
apiece. Two hundred and fifty can be made fi'om one gallon of 
linseed oil which costs about one dollar, the paper costs about 
eighty cents, it ought to be good and strong and tlie boiling 
would bring the cost to about a cent a sheet. Mine costs me 
rather less, but I make it in larger quantities. 

GJ-reat Ejaj^-lisli Harness Blacliiiig". — 
Three ounces turpentine, two ounces white wax, to be dissolved 
together over a slow fire; then add one ounce of ivory -black and 
one drachm of indigo, to be well pulverized and mixed together. 
When the wax and the turpentine are dissolved, add the ivovy- 
black and the indigo, and stiriill cold. Apply very thin; brush 
afterward, and it will give' a^'beautiful polish. This blacking 
keeps the leather soft, and, properly applied, gives a good polish. 
It is excellent for buggy tops, harness, etc. Old harness, if hard 
may be washed in warm water, and when nearly dry, grease it 
with neatsfoot oil. 

Fii'o liiiKilers. — To make very nice fire kindlers, 
take resin any quantity, and melt it, j^utting in for each pound 
b^ing used, from two to three ounces of tallow, and when all is 
hot, stir in pine sawdust to make very thick; and, while yet hot, 
spread it out about one inch thick, upon boards which have fine 
sawdust sprinkled upon them, to prevent it from sticking. When 
cold, break up into lumps about one inch square. But if for 
sale, take a thin board and press upon it, while yet wai-m, to lay 
it off into inch squares; this makes it break regularly, if you 
press the crease sufficiently deep, grease the marked board to 
prevent it from sticking. 

To lieep Oicier s^^veet, stud S^weeteii 
SOur Oidlei'. — To keep cider perfect, take a keg and bore 
holes in the bottom of it; spread a piece of woollen cloth at the 



44 toung's book of secrets. 

bottom: then fill with clean sand closely packed; draw your 
cider from a barrel just as fast as it will run through the sand; 
after this, put in clean barrels which have had a piece of cotton 
or linen cloth two by seven inches dipped in melted sulphur 
and burned inside of them, thereby absorbing the sulphur fumee 
(this process will also sweeten sour cider) ; then keep it in a 
cellar or room where there is no fire, and add half pound white 
mustard seed to each barrel. If the cider is long made, or sour- 
ing when you get it, about one quart of hickory ashes (or a little 
more of other hard wood ashes) stirred into each barrel will 
sweeten and clarify it nearly equal to rectifying it as above; but 
if it is not rectified, it must be racked off to get clear of the 
pomace, as with this in it, it will sour. Oil or whiskey bar- 
rels are best to put cider in, or half pint sweet oil to a barrel, or 
a gallon of whiskey to a barrel, or both, may be added with 
decidedly good effects; isinglass, four ounces to each barrel, 
hepls to clarify and settle cider that is not to be rectified, 

I^iqiiid Blacltii*^.— Ivory black two pounds; mo- 
lasses, two pounds; sweet oil, one pound; rub together till well 
mixed; then add oil vitrol, three quarters of a pound; add coarse 
sugar, half pound; and dilute with beer bottoms; this cannot be 
excelled. 

Hunter's Secrets and I*rivate GJ-nicle 
"to Ti:*aj>j>oi'S.— The following secret applies to all ani- 
mals, as every animal is attracted by the peculiar odor in a 
greater or less degree , but it is best adapted to land animals, 
such as foxes, minks, sables, martens, wolves, bears, wild-cats, 
ete., etc. Take one half pound strained honey, one quarter 
drachm oil of lavender, and four pounds of tallow, mix the 
whole thoroughly together, and make it into forty pills, or balls, 
and place one of these pills under the pan of each trap when 
setting it. The above preparation will most wonderfull)'^ attract 
all kinds of animals, and trappers and others who use it will be 
sure of success. 

To Catch Foxes. — Take oil of amber, and beaver's oil, each 
equal parts, and rub them over the trap before setting it. Set 
in the usual way. 

To Catch Mink. — Take oil of amber, and beaver's oil, and rub 
over the trap. Bait with fish or birds. 

To Catch Muskkats. — In the female muskrat near the vagina, 
is a small bag which holds from 30 to 40 drops. Now all the 
trapper has to do is to procure a few female muskrats and 
squeeze the contents of a bag into a vial. Now when in quest 
of muskrats, sprinkle a few drops of the liquid on the bushes 
over and around the trap. This will attract the male muskrats 
in large numbers, and if the traps are properly arranged, large 
numbers of them may be taken. In trapping muskrats steel 
traps should be used, and they should be set in the paths and 



young's book or seceets. 45 

runs of the animals, where they come upon the banks, and in 
every case the trap should be set under the water, and carefully 
concealed ; and care should be taken that it has sufiacient length 
ot chain to enable the animals to roach the water after being 
caught, otherwise they are liable to escape by tearing or gnawint^ 
off their legs. " 

To Catch Beaver.— In trapping for beaver, Bet the trap at the 
edge of the water or dam, at the point where the animals pass 
from deep to shoal water, and always beneath the surface, and 
fasten it by means of a stout chain to a picket driven in the bank, 
or to a bush or tree. A flat stick should be made fast to the 
trap by a cord a few feet long, which, if the animal chanced to 
carrj' away the trap, would float on the water, and point out its 
position. The trap should then be baited with the folio win rr 
preparation, called the "Beaver Medicine." This is prei:>ared 
from a substance called castor, and is obtained from the glan- 
dulous pouches of the male animal. The contents of five or six 
of these castor bags are mixed with a nutmeg, twelve or fifteen 
cloves, and thirty grains of cinnamon in fine powder, and the 
whole well stirred together with as much whiskey as will give it 
the consistency of mixed mustard. This preparation must be 
left closely corked up, and in four or five days the odor becomes 
powerful ; and this medicine smeared upon the bits of wood, 
etc., with which the traps are baited, will attract the beaver from 
a great distance, and wishing to make a close inspection, the 
animal puts its legs into the trap and is caught. 

The same caution in regard to length of chain should be ob- 
served for beaver as for otters, muskrats, etc., for unless they 
can reach the water they are liable to get out of the trap and 
escape. 

A^Pple Bixttei- -witlioTit A.pi>les.-Take 
one-halt pint of the very cheapest black molasses (good molasses 
won't do) and one-half pint of good vinegar, mix well together 
put It over the fire until it boils, then take it off, and take one- 
eighth pint of wheat flour and cold water enough to make a thin 
batter, and mix well ; then pour all these together, and boil until 
It gets as thick as you want it. Stir all the time. Put in cinna- 
mon or allspice to suit your taste. You will then have splendid 
apple butter. -^ 

Ho^v to IVTalte Old Orcliards IVotv.— 

Aainite. or Tree Medicine.— It is very well known that the rea- 
son why peach, apple, quince and pear orchards gradually grow 
poorer and poorer until they cease to produce at all. is because 
tne potash is exhausted from the soil by the plant. This potash 
must be restored, and the most effective way to do it is to use 
the following compound, discovered by a distinguished German 
caemist : Thirty parts of sulphate of potash ; fifteen parts sul- 
phate of magnesia ; thirty-five parts salt ; fifteen parts gypsum 



46 young's book of seckets. 

(plaster-of-paris) ; five parts chloride of magnesia. This shonld 
be roughly powdered and mixed and then mingled with barn- 
yard manure, or dug in about the roots of the trees. From ten 
to twenty pounds to a tree are quite enough. 
Ho>v to I£eei> A.i3ple5Si r'rejsjii. and 
J^onixd all ^Wiii'tei*. — I discovered a very superior 
way of preserving ajDples until spring. By it any apple in good 
condition \vhen packed will be equally good when unpacked, 
and even those rotting because not in good condition when piTt 
away will not injure any others. Take fine dry sawdust, prefer- 
ably that made by a circular saw from well seasoned hard wood, 
and i:)lace a thick layer on bottom of a barrel. Then place a 
layer of apples, not close together and not close to staves of the 
barrel. Put sawdust liberally over and around, and proceed 
until a bushel and a half (or less) are so packed in each barrel. 
They are to be kept in a cool i:)lace. I kept some in an open 
garret, the thermometer for a week ranged close to zero. No 
bruised or mellow aj^ples will be preserved, but they will not 
communicate rot to their companions. There is money in this, 
applied to choice apples. 

-A^rt of Itat lillliniif >vitlxoiit Ti-aps or 
I*oij^oii, — Take common sponge, dried, cut into small 
pieces, soak in lard, melted tallow or meat gravy. Place these 
pieces within easy access to the rats. They will eat greedily, and 
the moisture of the stomach will cause the pieces to swell and 
kill the rat. "Water may be placed within reach, and will hasten 
results by expanding the sponge. 

I. X. L. Bal<iiig- I'oTvdei:'.— Many large for- 
tunes have been made in this country and England by the 
manufacture and sale of baking powders. These powders are 
specially well adapted to all the western parts of our country, 
where peo])le must bake often in a hurry, and always without 
the means that are to be had in the east; and notwithstanding 
the many objections raised against the use of anything but yeast 
as a rising, these powders, if projaerly made, are perfectly whole- 
some. It only requires that the powders should be made of jiure 
material, exactly as laid down in the recipe. It is very true that 
the competition as to pi-ice tempts manufacturers to cheapen the 
stuff in their powders until the bread baked from them tastes as 
if it were made of soap. But a good article will acquire a repu- 
tation which will secure it a steady and profitable sale. 

Eecipe. -Take 1 pound tartaric acid in crystals, 1\ pounds of 
bi-carbonate of soda and 1^ pounds of potato sta'rch. Each 
must be powdered separatel5% well dried by a slow heat, well 
mixed through a sieve. Pack hard in tinfoil, tin or paper glazed 
on the outside. The tartaric acid and bi-carbonate of soda can 
of course be bought cheaper of wholesale druggists than you 
can make them iinless you are doing things on a very large 



TOUNGS 



'- BOOK OF SECItETS. 47 



scale, but potato starch any one can make ; it is only necessary 
to peel the potatoes and to grate them up fine into vessels of 
water, to let them settle, pour off the water and make the 
settlings in balls and to dry them. With these directions any 
one can make as good a baking powder as is sold anywhere ; if 
he wants to make it very cheap, he can take cream of tartar and 
common washing (carbonate) of soda, instead of the articles 
named in the recipe, but this would be advisable only where 
customers insist on excessively low prices in preference to qual- 
ity »f goods. 

"To l^Xjilie 3\Iaple ►^iig-ar -v^itKoiit 
lUCaple Ti*<ees. — Though the secret I am about to reveal 
may seem very simple (when explained), I believe there are few 
who would discover it of their own accord. The value of the 
maple sugar crop is considerable, and there is ready sale for all 
that can be made. I was led by curiosity to boil down a little 
butternut sap one time with an equal quantity of maple sap, and 
the result was, a sugar which I could not distinguish from pure 
maple. I experimented further and found that if a little com- 
mon (cane) sugar was added to the sap of the Ijutternut it. would 
do as well as and addition of maple sap. I found tliat the sap, 
of birch and several other trees would also make, when a very 
little cane sugar was added, a sugar which in looks and taste 
exactly resembled maple. To be able to make "maple" sugar 
from trees not heretofore deemed valuable for the purpose is 
^'just so much clear profit. 

Gring'ev ■Wine.— "Water, ten gallons; lump sugar 
twenty pounds; bruised ginger, eight ounces; three or four eggs. 
Boil well and skim ; then pour hot on six or seven lemons cut in 
slices, macerate for two hours; then rack and ferment; next add 
spirit two quarts, and afterward finings, one pint; rummage welL 
To make the color, boil half ounce saleratus and half ounce alim 
in one pint of water till you get a bright red color. 

Grin^ei' Beer.— Take five an half gallons water, three 
quarters of a pound ginger root bruised, tartaric acid, half ounce; 
white sugar, two an half pounds; whites of three eggs well beaten, 
ten small teaspoonfuls of lemon essence, yeast, one gill; boil the 
root for thirty minutes in one gallon of the water; strain ofi', and 
put the essence in while hot; mix, make over night; in the morn- 
ing, skim and bottle, keeping out the sediments. 

Older >vitlioiit A-pples.— Water one gallon; 
common sugar, one pound; tartaric acid, half ounce; yeast, one 
tablespoonful ; shake well, make in the evening, and it will be fit 
to use next day. 

Fox- Bottling".— Put in a barrel, five gallons hot water; 
thirty pounds common sugar; three quarters poimd tartaric aci,l : 
twenty-five gallons of cold water; three pints of liop or brewers' 
yeast, worked into paste with one pint of water and one pound 



48 young's book of secrets. 

flour. Let ifc work in the barrel forty-eight hours, the yeast run- 
ning out of the bunghole all the time, putting in a little sweet- 
ened water occasionally to keep it full; then bottle, putting in 
two or three broken raisins to each bottle; and it will nearly 
equal champagne. 

Oliosip Oiclei*.— Put in ft cask five gallons hot water; 
fifteen pounds brown sugar; one gallon molasses; half gallon 
hop or brewers' yeast; good vinegar, six quarts; stir well, add 
twenty-five gallons cold water, ferment as the last. 

Anotlxei.' Oidei'.— Cold water, twenty gallons; brown 
sugar, fifteen pounds; tartaric acid, half pound; rummage well 
together, and add, if you have them, three or four pounds of 
dried sour apples, or boil them and pour in the expressed juice. 
This cider will keep longer than the others. 

SfiJpi'xioe aiicl Oiiig'ei* Beer*. — Cold water, ten 
gallons; boiling water, eleven gallons; mix in a barrel; add 
molasses, thirty pounds, or brown sugar, twenty-four pounds; 
oil of spruce or any oil of which you Avish the flavor, one ounce; 
add one pint yeast, ferment, bottle in two or three days. If you 
wish white spruce beer, use lump sugar; for ginger flavor, use 
seventeen oun-^es ginger root bruised, and a few hops; boil for 
thirty minutes in three gallons of the water, strain and mix well; 
let it stand two hours and bottle, using yeast, of CMDurse. as 
before. 

Hop IBeex', >^ei*j^ ITiiio. — Mix fourteen pounds 
of molasses and eleven gallons water well together, and boil them 
for two hours with six ounces hops. When quite cool, add a 
cupful of yeast, and stir it well by a gallon or two at a time. 
I/et it ferment for sixteen hours, in a tub covered with a sack, 
then put it in a nine-gallon cask, and keep it filled up; bung it 
down in two days, and in seven days it will be fit to drink, and 
will be stronger than London porter. 

I^oiiioii Boei'. — To make twenty gallons, boil six 
ounces of ginger root bruised, quarter pound cream of tartar, for 
twenty or thirty minutes, in two or three gallons of water; this 
will be strained in thirteen pounds coffee sugar, on which you 
have put half an ounce oil of lemon, and six good lemons squeez- 
ed up together, having warm water enough to make the whole 
twenty gallons just so hot that you can hold your hand in it 
without burning, or about seventy degrees of heat; piit in one 
an a half pints of hop or brewei's' yeast worked into paste with 
five or six ounces flour. Let it work over night, then strain and 
bottle for use. 

Hop Booi'. — Hops six ounces; molasses five quarts; boil 
the hops till the sti-ength is out, strain them into a thirty-gallon 
barrel; add the molasses and one teacupful of yeast, and fill up 
with water; shake it well, and leave the bung out till fermented 



young's book of geckets, 49 

wliicli ■will be in about twenty-four liours. Bung uj), and it will 
be fit for use in about three days. 

]>Xolfissos5 Boer*. — Hops one ounce; water one gallon; 
boil for ten minutes, strain, add molasses, one jjound; and when 
luke-warm, yeast, one spoonful. Ferment. 

IJ/OOt; 13oei*.— Water ten gallons, heat to sixty degrees 
Fahrenheit, then add three gallons of molasses; let it stand two 
hours, pour it into a bowl add powdered or bruised sassafras and 
wintergreen bark, of each half pound; yeast one pint; bruised 
sarsiiparilla i'oot, half pound; add water enough to make twenty- 
five gallons in all. Ferment for twelve hours, then bottle. 

Otta^wa Beei', sxiitl Griiis;*er Ale. — Ottawa 
bc-er is made by using eight ounces of a fluid extract which con- 
tains the concentrated stength of four pounds of thirteen different 
roots and barks, added to one gallon of syrup which is mixed 
with fourteen gallons water, into which carbonic acid gas is forced 
at a pressure of eighty pounds to the square inch. Ginger Ale is 
made in the same way except that four ounces of extract is suffi- 
cient. When the ginger is really used, an extract deprived of 
resinous impurities is made use of, which gives a clear amber 
colored drink. 

J^odix J!s4^"i*"Bi|3S. — Loaf or crushed sugar, eight pounds; 
pure water, one gallon; gum-arabic, two ounces; mix in a brass 
or copper kettle. Boil until the gum is dissolved, then skim 
and strain through white flannel, after which add tartaric acid, 
five an a half ounces; dissolve in hot water; to flavor, use extract 
of lemon, orange, vanilla, rose, sarsasparilla, strawberry, etc., etc., 
half ounce, or to your taste. If you use juice of lemon, add two 
an a half pounds of sugar to a pint, you do not need any tartaric 
acid with it; now use two tablespoonfuls of syrup to three quart- 
ers of a tumbler of water, and one third teaspoonful of super- 
cabonate of soda, made fine; drink quick. For soda fountains, 
one ounce of super-carbonate of soda is used to one gallon of 
water. For charged fountains no acids are needed in the syrups. 

liladctJei'i'^ Wiiio. — Wash the berries and' i:»our 
one quart of boiling water to each gallon. Let the mixture stand 
twenty -four hours, stirring occasionally ; then strain and meas- 
ure into a keg, adding two pounds sugar, and good rye whiskey 
one pint, or best alcohol, one half pint to each gallon. Cork 
tight and put away for use. The best wine that can be made. 

{^i!iI><3x*ioi» I2.siif«;iii "W^iiie. — Take thirty pounds 
of chopped raisins iree from stems and dust ; put them in a 
large keg, add to tliem ten gallons soft water ; let them stand 
two weeks unbunged, shaking occasionally (warm place in 
winter), then strain througli woolen, or filter ; color with burnt 
sugar ; bottle and cork Avell for use. The more raisins the bet- 
ter the wine, not exceeding five pounds to each gallon. 



50 young's book of secrets. 

I^aisiix ^Viiie, Eqixal to J551xei»ir v.— Boil the 
proper quantity of water and let it stand till cold. To each gal- 
lon of this add four pounds of chopped raisins, previously well 
w;>shed, and freed from stalks ; let the whole stand for one 
month, stirring frequently ; then remove the raising, and bung 
up closely for one month more ; then rack into another vessel, 
leaving all sediment behind, and repeat till it becomes fine ; 
then to every ten gallons add six pounds of fine sugar and one 
dozen of good oranges, the rinds being pared thin and in- 
fused in two quarts of brandy, which should be added to the 
liquor at its last racking. Let the whole stand three months in 
the cask, then bottle. It should ren^ain bottled twelve months. 
To give it the flavor of Madeira, when it is in the cask put in 
a couple of green citrons, and let them remain till the wine is 
bottled. 

^iiiei'icaii 01iniiii>n«rtio. — Good cider (cr.^b- 
apple cider is the best), seven gallons ; best fourth-i^roof bran- 
dy, one quart ; genuine champagne wine, five pints ; milk, one 
gjallon ; bitartrate of potassa, tv>o ounces. Mix, let stand a 
Bhort time, bottle while fermenting. An excellent imitation. 

I5viti«lfc OliUMipti'S'^i^- — Loaf sugar, fiftj'-six 
pounds ; brown sugar (pale), forty-eight pounds ; water (warm), 
forty-five gallons ; white tartar, four ounces ; mix, and at a 
proper temperature add yeast, one quart ; and afterward sweet 
cider, five gallons ; bruised wild cherries fourteen or fifteen 
ounces ; pale spirits, one gallon ; orris powder, one half ounce ; 
bottle while fermenting. 

London J?iliorr^''. — Chopped raisins, four hundred 
pounds ; soft water, one hundred gallons ; sugar, forty-five 
pounds ; white tartar, one pound ; cider, sixteen gallons. Let 
them stand together in a close vessel one month ; stir frequent- 
ly. Then a Id of spirits eight gallons ; wild cherries bruised, 
eight pounds. Let them stand one month longer, and fine with 
isinglass. 

Criii-jji^oi* "Wine. — Put one ounce of good ginger root 
bruised in one quart ninety-five per cent alcohol ; let it stand 
nine days and strain ; add four quarts water, and one pound 
white sugar dissolved in hot water, color with tincture of San- 
ders to siiit 

Otirtimol is made by boiling clarified sugar till it is very 
brittle, then pouring it on an oiled slab or sheet of tin, and as 
Boon as it is cool enough to receive an impression with the finger, 
Btamping it in small squares, about an inch in size, with a cara- 
mel mould; then turning over the mass, \viping the bottom to 
remove any oil that may have adhered from the slab, and putting 
it m a dr\'' ]ilace to harden. If you have no caramel mould, yon 
n\iiy score it on the slab with a common case knife, after which 
tliey are glazed with anotlier coating of sugar. Keep them tightly 
closed from the air after they are made. 



547 






5^ 



^ 



'^0 







H^ "^fcrt^ ^'\ '^^wf^ ^'% ' 




- <^ 




Ho^ 
















L < e 




^^ ^'^ 










^ t^ 



, '^^m'=% 













3=" 









y^wy '^^ "*^ '•> 

.0 



^^ sj It^ 



-^^ 



£> W O 



-. ^^ 



"^^..^^ 






« . S 



A* ^ ^ ->^^<* ^^' ^ 




fillT M.MANCMtfJIkH; 

^^^■••^ INDIANA 






