LIBRARY OF CONGRESS. 




:Slielf...S5.^8-A 



UNITED STATES OF AMERICA. 



RELIABLE 

Cook Book, 



COMPILED BY 



MISS WILLIE SILLECK, 



IN AID OF 



4'- 



lusiiia School aii( Home lor 



Idreo. 






" We may live without poetry, music and art; 
We may live without conscience, and live without heart; 
We may live without friends, we may live without books ; 
But civilized man cannot live without cooks. 
He may live without books — what is knowledge but grieving? 
He may live without hope — what is hope but deceiving? 
He may live without love — what is passion but pining ? 
But where is the man that can live without dining? ' 

LCCILE. 



' 7 



NEW YOKE : 
D. H. GILDERSLEEVE & CO., PRINTERS, 101 CHAMBERS STREET, 






A^ ^<^ 



A-t->' 



/ 



Entered, according to Act of Congress, in the year 1878, in the OfiQce of 
the Librarian of Congress, at Washington, D. C. 



\ 




INDUSTRIAL SCHOOL AND HOME FOR DESTITUTE CHILDREN, 

BUTLER ST., near YANDERBILT AVE., 

BROOKLYN, N. V. 



PREFACE, 



A double interest manifests itself in offering this work 
to the generous public. First, the proceeds will aid in pro- 
moting the welfare of a most praiseworthy charitable insti- 
tution, known as the " Industrial School Association and 
Home for Destitute Children of Brooklyn." 

Secondly, as " willful waste makes woful want," and 
every housekeeper is on the alert for tried recipes, these, 
through the kindness of many Brooklyn ladies, have been 
furnished. Feeling assured that in this case "too many 
cooks will not spoil the broth," we submit the work to the 
hearty approbation of all. 



CONTENTS. 



SOUPS. 



stock for Soup— Stock for Soup No. 2— Corn— Wine— Potato— 
Okra Gumbo — French— Tomato — Tomato No. 2 — Mullagaitaw- 
ny— Cream of Spinach — Scotch Broth— Crab— Cheap Green 
Pea — Black Bean — Strengthening Broth — Oyster — While^ 
Ch icken — Beef — Vermicelli— Soup a la Julienne — Calves' Head — 
MockBisquit 1-7 

FISH, OYSTERS, CLAMS, ETC. 

Baked Shad— Lobster Salad —Pickled Shad— Scallops— Scalloped 
Lobster or Salmon— Lobster Croquettes— Turbot a la Creme— 
Fish Cakes — Roast Clams — Scalloped Oysters— Fried Oysters — 
Oysters Baked in Shells— Hard-Shell Crabs- Soft-Shell Crabs 
—Scalloped Clams— Stewed Eels— Jellied Eels— Pickled Clams 
-Frying Fish— To Broil Mackerel— Oyster Pie— Fish Chowder 
—Boiled Salmon — Fi'ied Smelts— Steamed Oysters — Pickled 
Oysters — Clam Fritters — Potted Shad— Cream Fish — Stewed 
Terrapin — Clam Chowder 8-16 

MEATS. 

Fillet of Veal — Sweetbreads — Roast Beef — Roast Lamb or Mutton 
— Stufifed Lamb— To Corn Beef— Corned Mutton— Sugar Cured 
Hams— Ham, Hartford Gluh Style— liisiked Ham— Spiced Beef- 
Pressed Tongue and Ham— Dish for Tea— Stewed Beef— Force 
Meat Balls — Kidney Omelette— Venison Steaks— To Make Cro- 
quette—Beef's Heart — To Boil Corned Beef— Meat Loaf— An . 
Excellent Stew— Baked Calves' Liver— Veal Pate— Nice way to 
use Cold Meat-Ham and Chicken Pie — Lamb Stew— Collared Pork 
— Calves' Head Pie— Ropa Alieja— Roast Sweetbreads- Larded 
Sweetbreads — Beefsteak— Veal Olives— Curing Beef— Beef a la 
Mode— Yorkshire Pudding— To Dress a Pig's Head— Curried 
Dishes— French Cutlets— Stewed Tripe— To Bake a Pig— Beef a 
la Royal -Ham Sandwiches 17-28 

POULTRY, GAME, ETC. 

Boned or Pressed Turkey— Directions for Choosing Fowl— Chicken 
Salad— Chicken Salad No. 2— Boned Chicken— Chicken Cro- 
quettes— Potage a la Reine— Jellied Chicken— Potted Pigeons-^- 
Stewed Pigeons— Quail or Squab Pie — Prairie Chicken— Quail 
— Fried Chicken— A Fricassee of Chicken— Turkey— To Boil a 
Turkey— Chicken Pot Pie 29-35 



vi CONTENTS. 



SALADS, SAUCES, ETC. 

Carrot Sauce— Lettuce Salad— Cold Slaw— Dressing for Chopped 
White Cabbage— Mint Sauce — Pepper Sauce — Chili Sauce — Hot 
Slaw — Sauce for Mushroom Pates — Mayonnaise Sauce — Egg 
Sauce for Fish— Chicken Salad Dressing— Oyster Stufi&ng for 
Poultry— Essence of Celery— Stuffing for Turkey— Goose Stuffing 
-Drawn Butter— Potato Salad— Anchovy Sauce— Caper Sauce. 3G-41 

EGGS. 

Omelette— Omelette, No. 2— Omelette Souffle— Salad Eggs— Baked 
Omelette— Omelette Souffle— Poached Eggs— Boiled Eggs— To 
Test Eggs— To Preserve Eggs 42-44 

VEGETABLE'. 

White Potatoes — Sweet Potatoes— To Cook Potatoes under Meat — 
Corn Chowder — Potato Chips — Corn and Tomatoes — Potato Cro- 
quettes—Cauliflower — To Cook Egg Plant— Escalloped Toma- 
toes — Asparagus — Green Peas — Spinach — Onions — Turnips — 
Macaroni — Saratoga Potatoes — String Beans— Stewed Tomatoes 
- -New England Baked Beans — Mushrooms — Lima Beans — Green 
Corn — Succotash— Stuffed Tomatoes 45-50 

DRINKS, 

Coffee — Tea — Chocolate — Cocoa — Choca 51-52 

BREAKFAST AND SIDE DISHES. 

Fondee— Rice Waffles— Rice Croquettes— Dainty Side Dish— Corn 
Oysters— Hominy — Oatmeal— German Toast— Maple Syrup for 
Hot Cakes— Boiled Rice— Oyster Macaroni : . . . 53-5(i 

' BREAD, ETC. 

To prepare Potatoes for making into Bread— Home-made Yeast — 
Bread— To use Compressed Yeast — Steamed Brown Bread — 
Graham Bread— Steamed Graham Bread — Boiled Indian Bread 
—Corn Bread— Corn Bread No. 2— Muffins— Third Bread Muffins 
— Raised Biscuits— Corn Muffins — Parker House Rolls — Rice Pan- 
cakes—Muffins—Breakfast Rolls — Vienna Pocket-books— Corn 
Balls— Wheat Puffs— Breakfast Cakes — Light Tea Biscuit- - 
Johnny Cake— Crumpets— Soda Biscuit— Soda Biscuit No. 2 — 
Indian Pone— Queen Muffins — Rice Muffins— Pop-Overs — Rice 
Cakes — Indian Cakes — Rye Pancakes — Rusk — Rye Cakes — Oat- 
meal Cakes — Graham Puffs— Waffles— Currant Buns— Bran Muf- 
fins—French Rolls— Rye Drop Cakes— Puffs— Straws — Squash 
Biscuit — Buckwheat Cakes — Soft Waffles — Puflet— Farina Grid- 
dle Cakes 57-68 

PUDDINGS AND SAUCES. 

Suet — Indian— Chocolate — Delmonico — Baked Blackberry — Cot- 
tage — Batter —Tapioca — Randall — Back- About — English Plum 
—Boiled —German Puffs— Graham— Chocolate— Brown Betty- 
Apple Slump— English Plum— Sponge— Fried Bread— Kiss- 
Orange— Cracker— Batter— Whitpot — Whortleberry- Boiled Suet 
—Orange Fritters— Creme Frite— Peach or Apple Fritters— Web- 
ster — Cocoanut— Evening Post— Puff— Green Corn— Apple or 



CONTENTS. vii 



Fruit— Scotch — Poor Man's — Neapolitan — Queen of Puddings — 
Bread— Dandy — Cider— Quaking— Cabinet — Fig — Carrot — Ice — 
Lemon — Bice. SAUCES.— Sauce — Wine — Pudding Sauce — 
Another— Mock Cream— Lemon— Farina Jelly Sauce 69-83 

PASTRY AND PIES, 

Pie Crust — Another— Puflf Paste — Mince Meat for Pies— Another 
— Cocoanut Pie— Eastern Shore Potato— Cream— Another Apple 
— Lemon Cheesecakes — Cracker Apple — Lemon —Another — 
Lemon Custard — Raisin — English Apple — Nice — Cheese- 
cakes — Pumpkin — Fruit— Orange Custard — Summer— Mince- 
Peach Dumplings- Potato — Cherry , 84-96 

CAKES. 

Remarks on Cake— Vanity — Spice Cakes— Anise-Seed Caksb- Choc- 
olate— Delicate— Rich— Coffee — Ocean— French Loaf— Delicate— 
Jenny Lind — Cream — Another — Orange — Citron — Measured 
Pound — Cream Puffs— Another— Choct 'late Eclairs— Hickory Nut 
-Cocoanut— Fruit— Rich Molasses— Marbled— Jelly Roll— White 
Spouge—Spouge— Crullers— New Year's Cakes— Cake Waffles- 
Lady— Cocoanut— Hermit's— Jessie— Nameless — Crullers- Spice 
—Gold and Silver— Cocoanut Drops— Hickory Nut— Sponge— Gin- 
gerbread — Kisses —Harrison— Lemon — Coffee — Lady Jb'ingers — 
Almond— Jelly Cakes— Pound— Watermelon— Brown Stone Front 
— Mountain Ice— Old Lady— Election— Christmas Cakes— Hard 
Gingerbread— Aunt Lincoln's — Loaf— Soft Jumbles — Plum — Nut 
-Delicate- Almond Macaroons — Jelly— Cocoanut Cones— Spice 
—Feather— Lady— Queen — Jackson Jumbles— Quaker — Walnut — 
Cream Puffs — Lemon JeUy — Imperial — Sr-^ar Gingerbread— 
Orange— Snow— Custard— Bims-Molasses-Dfied Apple— Lemon 
—1, 2, 3, 4— Doughnuts— Camp Meeting— Kisses— The Alphistera 
or Variety— Summer Pound— Jackson— Corn Starch— Cinnamon — 
Buns— GingerSnaps — Cream Sponge— Albany— Cinnamon Wafers 
—Chocolate Cakes — Strawberry Short— Black— Fancy— Leopard 
—La African— Fig— White Fruit— Soft Waffles— Almond Sand— 
Molasses— Sponge— Strawberry Short Cake 91-117 

PICKLES AND CATSUPS, 

Pickles— Geiman Pickles— To Pickle Onions— To Pickle CauHflower 
—Cucumber Pickles— To Pickle Peaches, Plums or Pears- - 
Peach Mangoes— Pickled Tomatoes- Tomato Catsup-^Another 
—Pickle Sauce— Chow Chow— Piccalilli— Cucumber Catsup— Wal- 
nut Catsup— Cantilope Pickle— Tomato Condiment 118-122 

SPICED FRUIT. 

Spiced Currants — Spiced Plums— Pickled Peaches— Another— Sweet 
Pickles— Spiced Cherries 123-124 

PRESERVES AND JELLIES. 

Jelly— Crab Apple Jelly— Currant and Raspberry Jam— Orange 
Marmalade— Peach Jam— Cherry Sweetmeats— Lemon Jelly- 
Wine Jelly — Orange Jelly— Marmalade— Fruit Jelly— Brandy 
Peaches— Lemon Butter— Coffee Jelly— To Make a Hen's Nest- 
Gelatine Apples— Ambrosia— Strengthening Jelly— Cherry Jam— 



viii CONTENTS. 



Currant Jelly— To Can Peaches— Chipped Pears —Raspberry Jelly 
—To Preserve Plums— To Cook Apples— Wine Jelly— Calves' Feet 
Jelly— To Preserve Watermelon Rinds— Fox Grape Jelly— To 
Preserve Clingstone Peaches— Cranlierrv Jelly— Ale Jelly- Rule 
for Canning Fruit— NeapoUtan Jelly— Brandy and Preserved 
Pine-apples 125-134 

CUSTARDS, CREAMS, ICES, ETC. 

Bavarian Cream— Charlotte Russe— Velvet Cream— Apple Souffle- 
Floating Island of Apples— Pistachio Cream— Charlotte Russe— 
Fairy Apples— Apple Snow— Dutch Flummery— Spanish Cream- 
Flummery— Almond Custard— Floating Island— Pink Coloring 
tv.r Icing— Chocolate Icing— Angelic Fodder— Egg Cream— Del- 
monico Ice Cream— Charlotte Russe— Souffler de Russe— Choco- 
late Cream— Orange Souffle- Rice Cups— Chocolate Blanc Mange 
—Boiled Custard— Oeam Glace - Tapioca Cream— Coffee Custard 
—Brandy Cream— Caledonia Cream— Carragreen Blanc Mange- 
Ice Cream— Cream or Boiled Custard— Spanish Cream— Snow and 
Ice Pudding— Apple Foam— Lemon Cream— Chocolate Custard- 
Italian Cream— Floating Island— To Whip Cream— A Trifle- 
Barley Cream— Cream a la Yanilla—Almondlcing— Cream Choco- 
late—Orange Float — Chocolate Meraugue — Chocolate Ice- 
Lemon Ice 131-14:6 

CANDY. 

Chocolate Caramels— White Sugar— Molasses— Maillard's Choco- 
late Caramels— Cocoanut — Chocolate Cream Drops— Toffy— 
Cocoanut Cream— Lemon Drops— Chocolate Cream Drops- 
Walnut Candv— Pop Corn Cakes— Vanilla Caramels— Crystallized 
Pop Corn... * 14(M48 

BEVERAGES, 

Mead— Currant W^ine— Whipped Cream and Wine— Milk Punch- 
Cream Soda— Egg-Nog— Pie Plant Wine— Apple Jack— Punch- 
Lemonade— Gum Arabic Water— Apple Water— Cherry Bounce- 
Claret Cup 149-152 

MISCELLANEOUS. 

To Wash Blankets— To Take out Iron Rust-To Clean Gold Chains 
—Chapped Hands— Flaxseed Poultice— Poultice— Asthma Cure 
—For Cleaning Silver— To Wash Hair Brush- To Clean a Fine 
Tooth Comb— An Excellent Wash for the Hair— Java Water— 
Cologne— Cleaning Gloves— To Remove Grease from Silk— To 
Cure a Felon— Something Worth Knowing— Insects in Cages— To 
Wash Navy-blue Woolen Stockings— To Crystallize Grasses and 
Twigs— Borax for Washing- Polish for Walnut Furniture- 
Wash for the Hair— Toilet— For Cleaning Paint— To Make Linen 
Glossy— Tooth Powder— Compress for Sprains— Antidote to 
Poison— To Stop the Flow of Blood— Eau Sucre— White Lini- 
ment—Items for Housekeepers— Earache — For Roaches— Cure 
for Small-pox and Scarlet Fever— To Clean Marble 153-160 

DINNER, LUNCH AND TEA 161-162 

BILLS OF FARE 16>-164 



RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 



SOUPS. 



To Make Stock for White Soup and Gravies. 

Put two knuckles or shins of veal, two onions, two table- 
spoonfuls of salt, into eight qts. of water. Boil this six 
hours ; strain it into a stone jar, and keep it in a cold place. 
When it is cold, take off the fat. 

To Make Stock for Brown Soup. 

Take two shins of beef, a shin of veal, eight qts. of 
water, one doz. cloves, and one doz. pepper-corns. Boil 
this eight hours; strain it into a stone jar, and when it is cold, 
remove the fat. This is a very nice stock to use instead of 
water in making gravies for any kind of dark meat, such as 
beef, mutton, venison and all kinds of wild fowl. 

Corn Soup. 

Mrs. Hulbert. 

Twelve ears of corn cut from the cob, boil corn and cob 
together in water enough to cover them. Take out most of 
the corn and add one qt. of milk, boil, half hour, thicken 
with butter, flour, pepper and salt. Have two eggs well beaten 
in the soup tureen, pour in the soup, stirring fast all the time. 



RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 



Wine Soup. 

Mrs. C. L. T. 

Boil quarter of a lb. of pearl barley or sago in a qt. of 
water, some stick cinnamon, lemon rind and quarter of lb. of 
seedless raisins or currants for two hours; sugar to taste, then 
add one pt. of claret and allow it to boil up once. Fresh 
ripe cherries can be used in place of the raisins. 

Potato Soup. 

Mrs. Churchman. 
One qt. milk, when boiling add five potatoes cooked and 
rubbed through a sieve, two onions, add three beaten eggs 
when boiled up once, butter size of egg, stir well. 

Okra Gumbo Soup. 

A. W. 

One onion cut in small pieces, three lbs. veal cutlet cut 
in small pieces, one lb. of ham cut in small pieces, fifty 
okra cut small, one pt. browned fiour, two qts, tomatoes 
stewed, put some lard in a frying-pan, when hot put in the 
okras and onion, when browned take up, and put in the pan 
the ham and veal to brown ; then stir very gradually on the 
fiour six qts. of boiling water, add the browned veal, ham, 
okra onion, then add the tomatoes, season very high with 
red pepper and salt, boil three hours stirring often, strain before 
serving. 

French Soup. 

Miss Cripps. 
Take a sheep's head and pluck, cut into pieces and boil 
gently in a gallon of water till reduced to half the quantity; 
add a small teacupful of pearl barley, an onion, turnips, carrots, 
a bunch of sweet herbs and a few cloves; thicken with fiour 
rubbed in butter and add a little mushroom ketchup. Boil 
the head the day before the soup is needed, boiling it suf- 
ciently for the bones to separate. 



SOUPS. 3 

Tomato Soup. 

Miss Ada Maxwell. 
Four or five large tomatoes cut up small, into one and one- 
half pts. of water, stew ten minutes, then add' four soda 
crackers broken up in small pieces, half cup butter, one pt. 
milk, salt and pepper to taste; let all boil up once. 

Tomato Soup No. 2. 

Mrs. Churchman. 

Two qts. sliced tomatoes, six qts. water, two lbs. beef, boil 
three hours, tablespoonful butter, season and serve with bits of 
toast, celery improves it. 

Mulligatawny Soup. 

Mrs. F. Taylor. 

Cut a chicken in small pieces and put in a stew-j)an, with a 
little butter, half a chopped onion, onept., very scanty of curry 
powder, and let them brown. Then add two qts. of chicken, 
veal and beef stock ; if you have not these use hot water. Let 
it boil half hour or more, slowly, until it begins to be tender ; 
skim off the fat, and add quarter of a lb. of rice, season with 
salt and a little pepper. Cook about one hour. 

Cream of Spinach Soup. 

Mrs. F. Taylor. 

Half peck of spinach thoroughly washed, put into a large pot 
of boiling water with a handful of salt. Cook until tender 
enough to break in your fingers; drain and chop, then pass it 
through a coarse sieve. Boil two qts. milk, when boiled stir 
the spinach into it, and add a tablespoonful of corn starch wet 
in cold water,- and quarter teaspoonful of nutmeg. Cook five 
minutes and serve hot. Asparagus, lettuce and fresh peas are 
good in the place of spinach and make a nice soup. 



RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 



Scotch Broth. 

Mrs. F. Taylor. 
Take from a shoulder of mutton two lbs. of the lean meat. 
Cut this with your vegetables in medium size dice shape, using 
one turnip, one carrot, one small onion. Put into a sauce-pan 
two ozs. of butter, add the lean meat and brown it; put in a 
tablespoonful of dry flour and add the vegetables, then fill up 
the sauce-pan with three qts. of stock and hot water, add half 
lb. barley which has been soaked in cold water, and season with 
pepper and salt. Let it simmer one hour. 

Crab Soup, very rich. 

Fry three onions brown in butter, slice a dozen large tomatoes, 
and cook together; season with red pepper, salt and nutmeg 
to your taste ; pick out a dozen crabs, add two qts. of water. 
Simmer until thick. 

Noodles for Soup. 

Mrs. Thomas. 
One cup flour, one egg, eggshellful of water, a little salt; 
make a hole in the cup of flour, pour in the egg and water ; 
mix very stiff, roll thin, and cut in thin strips. 

Black Bean Soup. 

Mrs. C, Ide. 
Soak one qt. of black beans in one qt. of water over night ; 
boil them in the morning till thoroughly cooked, and then 
strain through a wire sieve ; when ready to prepare the soup for 
dinner, put over the fire with beef stock, two onions, four whole 
sticks of celery (the latter to be taken out before serving), salt 
and pepper ; when served, pour in a glass of wine and the whole 
yolks of several hard boiled eggs. This makes a very delicious 
soup, both as to taste and appearance. 



SOUPS. 5 

Cheap Green Pea Soup. 

Two qts. of green peas, piece of lean ham, some bones from 
roast meat, two onions sliced, a few sprigs of parsley, a bunch 
of sweet herbs. Put them to stew in two qts. of cold water, 
let simmer gently. When quite tender strain it, and pulp the 
peas and other vegetables through a sieve. Put it on the fire 
again, with pepper and salt, and about a pt. of milk. Serve 
with fried bread cut into small dice. 



Strengthening Broth for Invalids. 

w. s. 

Cut raw beef in squares one inch thick, place in soup-plate 
with just enough cold water to cover the meat, cover with 
another plate, and allow it to stand twelve hours. Refuse the 
meat, as it will have then lost all nutriment, heat the blood thus 
extracted and season with pepper and salt. 

Oyster Soup. 

One qt. of oysters, separated from the liquor, washed thor- 
oughly in about a pt. of water. Strain the liquor and add one 
qt. of milk, nutmeg and pepper, with three crackers pounded* 
fine; add quarter of a lb. of butter to the liquor. Boil all 
together five minutes. Add the oysters and boil a few minutes. 

White Soup. 

A large knuckle of veal, four qts. of water, a little celery seed^ 
two onions, two carrots, two turnips; boil down to two qts., 
strain the liquor and let it stand until it is cold. Take oS. all 
the fat, add one pt. of new milk or cream, the beaten yolks of 
three eggs, and a little vermicelli. Let it come to a boil. It is 
well to prepare the broth the day before it is wanted. 



^ RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 

Chicken Soup. 

After boiling tender, skim off the fat, and put in a cupful of 
rice and a head of celery ; pepper and salt to taste. 

Beef Soup, 

Boil a shin of beef the day before it is wanted ; if that is not 
-convenient, have the shin cracked up well ; put to boil in five 
or six qts. of water, boil five or six hours, skim it very often ; 
cut up very fine half a white cabbage, chop two turnips, three 
carrots, and three onions ; put them into the soup, with pepper 
and salt, boil it two hours ; half an hour before serving take out 
bone and gristle. N^ver hurry soup, the meat should boil long 
and slowly, and put on in cold water after rubbing it thor- 
oughly with salt to draw out the juice. Skim just before it 
€omes to a boil. 

Vermicelli Soup. 

Miss C. Shively. 
Six lbs. of beef or veal, place in water enough to cover it, and 
boil until tender ; remove the meat, and to three or four qts. of 
the liquid sprinkle a half lb. of vermicelli, letting the vermi- 
celli boil fifteen or twenty minutes, season with a little salt, . 
when it is ready for the table. 

Soup a la Julienne. 

Mrs. Haxtun. 

Make a gravy soup and strain it before you put in the vege- 
tables, cut some turnips and carrots in ribbons, and some 
onions and celery into lozenges, boil them separately; when the 
vegetables are thoroughly boiled, put them in the tureen with 
the soup, and lay gently on the top some small squares of 
toasted bread without crust, taking care they do not tumble 
down and disturb the brightness of the soup. 



SOUPS. 7 

Calves' Head Soup. 

Mrs. Haxtun. 

Boil a calf's hea^, take the water after the head is sufficiently 
cooked to take the bones out, put it in a stew-pot, then put in 
a few whole cloves and allspice, season well with pepper and 
salt ; take a tablespoonf ul of butter and the same of browned 
flour, mix thoroughly, add thyme, jDarsley, and two onions, let 
it boil long and slowly; strain it, return it to the pot, stir in 
tlie liour and butter, let it continue boiling; make force-meat 
balls of veal chopped fine, mix with bread crumbs, season with 
pepper and salt, fry a light brown ; boil two eggs hard, slice 
them into the tureen, put the fried force-meat balls in and a 
few slices of lemon, and a cup of wine and catsup mixed. 
(Walnut is preferable.) 

Mock Bisquit Soup. 

Miss M. Moore, New York. 

Take a can of tomatoes and strain, add a pinch of soda, then 
in another sauce-pan boil three pts. of milk thickened with a 
tablespoonful of corn starch mixed with a little cold milk ; add 
butter size of an egg, salt and pepper to taste, mix with tomatoes, 
let come to a boil and serve. 



RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 



FISH, OYSTERS, CLAMS, ETC. 



Baked Shad. 

Mrs. Thomas. 
Take a large shad, and fill it with a stuffing of grated bread 
made with sweet milk, butter, pepper, salt and one egg beaten 
up. Lay the fish in a pan with a little water and bake an hour, 
basting with butter and water. 

Lobster Salad. 

Mrs. Silleck. 
Take the meat from the body and claws of a large, well 
boiled lobster, and mash the coral with a wooden spoon ; chop 
not very fine. To one cup of meat lise two of chopped celery 
or lettuce. For dressing use " Durkee's " salad dressing, gar- 
nish with eggs and lettuce. Previously to garnishing place 
salad back in the shell and arrange claws as though it had 
not been opened. 

Pickled Shad, nice relish. 

Mrs. Silleck. 

Take a large shad cut in about eight pieces, wash well and 
rub plenty of salt on them, lay them in a stone jar, add twenty 
pepper-corns, ten whole allspice, ten cloves, a few pieces of 
whole mace, lump of butter size of an egg, cover with good 
vinegar, stand it on the back of the range and let it remain 
twenty-four hours; be sure it does not boil or even simmer. 

Bluefish and fresh mackerel are excellent prepared in the 
same manner, only adding more butter. 



FISH, OYSTERS, CLAMS, ETC. 9^ 

Scallops. 

Swell them in saltwater over night; in the morning dry them 
on a cloth, dip in egg, then in cracker crumbs, and fry brown. 

Scalloped Lobster or Salmon. 

S. B. D. 

Two ounces of butter put in a saucepan, when melted add. 
one large teaspoon of flour, stir until it becomes yellow, add 
one cup of milk, stirring till it becomes creamy, salt and pepper 
to taste. Chop the lobster or salmon fine, stir in till it 
becomes very hot, then take from the range and add the juice 
of one lemon. Put in a dish or into the lobster shell, sprinkle 
on top bread crumbs and a little butter. Place in oven andi 
brown half hour. 

Lobster Croquettes. 

Mrs. Chandler. 

Chop meat fine, mix with salt and pepper. One-fourth part 
bread crumbs. Make into balls with melted butter, dip in egg, 
then in bread crumbs. Serve with parsley. 

Turbot a la Creme. 

Miss Thurston. 

For five lbs. of halibut, boil an onion and a bunch of 
parsley in a pt. of milk. Thicken a pt. of cream with four 
tablespoonfuls of flour, then take out the onion and parsley and 
boil the milk and cream together, add a spoonful of butter, a 
little mace, salt and pepper. The fish must be picked up 
fine after it is boiled. Then put some of the sauce in the dish, 
then a layer of fish, alternating until the dish is full. Put fine 
cracker crumbs on the top and bake. 



10 RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 



Fish Cakes. 

Mrs. Churchman. 

A large salt fish, picked fine, a qt. raw potatoes, put both in. 
cold water and boil until done; when cool, mash with silver 
fork, butter size of an egg, tablespoonful of milk, two eggs, 
pepper and salt. When cold, make into cakes, drop into boil- 
ing fat, and fry as doughnuts. 

Roast Clams. 

Mrs. Silleck. 

Have a hot fire, remove lids and center piece, place clams, 
previously washed clean, on top of the coals. When the shells 
-^open they are done. Serve in shells. 

Scalloped Oysters. 

Misc Susie Boyd, Boston. 

Grate a stale loaf of bread; crackers will answer, but bread 
3s much better. Butter a deep dish, sprinkle in a layer of 
crumbs with a little salt, pepper and bits of butter, then a layer 
of oysters with a little liquid and salt, pepper and butter, layer 
■of bread crumbs, one of oysters, seasoning each layer, until the 
dish is filled, having the crumbs on top, moisten the last layer 
well. A medium size dish will bake in twenty or thirty 
minutes. 

Fried Oysters. 

Miss C. Shively. 

Select the largest and drain them well on a cloth, then dip 
them in rolled crackers ; fry in either butter or lard until they 
are a nice brown, and season with pepper and salt. 



FISH, OYSTERS, CLAMS, ETC. 11 

Oysters Baked in Shells. 

Mks. W. B, Kendall. 

Make a thick batter of flour, milk and butter, cook well in a 
saucepan. Scald a few small oysters, after which wash in cold 
water. Drain off the water and mix the oysters with the batter, 
season with nutmeg, pepper and salt. Put in clam shells, 
sprinkle over with bread crumbs and put a small bit of butter 
on top. Bake until brown. 

Hard-Shell Crabs. 

Miss L. Parker. 

Wash them in cold water and j)ut them, alive, in boiling hot 
water, just enough to cover them. Boil from twenty to thirty 
minutes with the pot tightly covered. Should be eaten cold. 

Soft-Shell Crabs. 

Miss L. Parker. 

Wash them clean in cold water, cut out their mouths and lift 
up the pointed corners of the shell, taking out the "dead men.'^ 
Flour well, and fry in boiling lard and butter after seasoning. 

Scalloped Clams. 

M. E, W. 

Chop the clams fine, season with pepper and a little salt; mix 
in another dish some powdered cracker moistened with a little 
warm milk, part of the juice of the clams, a beaten egg or two, 
a small spoonful melted butter. Now stir into this the chopped 
clams; bake in small patty-pans, send to table in tin-pans; or 
wash, wipe and butter some of the large clam shells, fill them 
with the mixture and bake. 



12 RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 

Slewed Eels. 

Miss Cjiipps. 
Two lbs. of eels, one pt. of good stock, one onion, three 
or four cloves, pieces of lemon-peel, one glass of port or Ma- 
deira wine, three tablespoonfuls of cream, a thickening of flour, 
Cayenne pepper and lemon juice to taste. Wash and skin the 
eels, cut them in pieces, pepper and salt them and put in a 
stew-pan with the stock. Add the onion, cloves, lemon-peel 
and wine. Stew gently for half an hour. Keep the eels hot 
on a dish, strain the gravy, thicken the cream with a little flour. 
Mix all together and boil two minutes, having added a little 
Cayenne and lemon juice. Pour the gravy over the eels and 
serve. 

Jellied Eeis. 

Mrs. T. 

Boil for fifteen minutes six large well-cleaned eels cut in 
finger-length pieces, in three parts w^ater and one part wdne- 
vinegar, some salt, whole cloves, pepper, three bay leaves and 
three shallots; drain through a sieve, replace the eels in the 
liquid, when cold remove the fat, then take out the eels; ^^our 
the liquid with the strained jelly of six calves' feet previously 
boiled, from which the fat has been gathered, allow this to come 
to a boil ; then add the whites of six well-beaten eggs ; skim the 
same, pour several times through a jelly-bag, if not sufficiently 
sour add the juice of two lemons; pour a quantity of the liquid 
in a mold, then some sliced lemon, then eels, then liquid, and 
alternate until all is used ; wiien jellied it is ready for use. 

Steamed Oysters. 

w, s. 

Drain the oysters well, place in pan with large jjiece of butter, 
season with salt and pepper, cover closely, shake them occasion- 
ally. Toast bread and place on dish nicely ; when oysters are 
cooked, turn on toast and serve immediately. 



FISH, OYSTERS, CLAMS, ETC. 13 



Frying Fish. 

Wash and wipe them perfectly dry, rub over lightly with a 
little flour, and cover them with bread crumbs and the yolk of 
an egg] then place in a pan of boiling dripping or lard 
sufficient to completely cover them, and when done place on a 
disli before the kitchen fire. The most inexperienced hand will 
thus be able to send them to table crisp and of a beautiful 
brown color; but if the fat be insufficient or not quite hot 
when the fish is put in the pan, they will be flabby and greasy. 
Too small quantity of fat is the common error. 

To Broil Mackerel. 

Clean and split them open, wipe dry, lay them on a clean 
gridiron, rubbed with suet, over a very clear slow fire ; turn ; 
season with pepper and salt and a little butter. 

Oyster Pie. 

Mrs. Thomas. 
One hundred oysters ; pick them out carefully and strain the 
liquor. Put them on to plump in their own liquor, then take 
them off and season with pounded mace, cloves, pepper and salt 
if required, season to taste. Three hard boiled yolks of eggs 
cut up fine with a slice of grated bread crumbs, mix well and 
strew over the tops of the oysters, and about two ozs. of butter 
€ut into small bits. Put the crust on and bake in a quick oven. 

Boiled Salmon. 

Salmon should be well cleansed but not soaked in water; rub 
•a little salt into the body, flour a cloth and pin it up, and put 
it into boiling water. For a piece weighing six lbs., after it 
begins to boil, let boil about half an hour. Serve it with 
drawn butter and eggs or fish sauce. 



14 RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 

Fish Chowder ("Com. Stevens.") 

Mrs. Oatman, 

Four tablespoonfuls of onion fried with pork, one qt. boiled 
potatoes well mashed, one pilot bread and a half, broken, one 
tablespoonful summer savory and thyme, mixed, quarter bottle 
of catsup, half bottle of port or claret wine, half a nutmeg, 
grated, half a teaspoon each of cloves, mace and allspice, one 
teaspoonful red pepper, three teaspoonfuls black pepper, salt, 
six lbs. of bass or cod cut in slices. Put the whole in a kettle 
togetlier, with water enough to cover two or three inches. Boil 
one and a half hours, stirring gently. 

Fried Smells. 

Split them just far enough to clean them, lay them in salt and 
water for one hour, wash, clean and wijie them dry. Have 
ready two eggs well beaten in a plate, and some cracker crumbs 
in another plate. Put two lbs. of lard into the frying-pan, 
set it on the lire until very hot, dip the smelts into the egg, roll 
them in the crumbs and put into the boiling fat. Fry a light 
brown ; serve with drawn butter. 

Pickled Oysters. 

Mrs. Ducker. 

Boil the oysters nearly done, then drain on a dish until cold. 
Add juice and vinegar according to taste, whole peppers and 
cloves. For six hundred oysters slice six lemons very thin ; put 
the lemons in the day they are to be used. Don't make them 
too sour with vinegar, it is apt to eat them; add salt. 

Pickled Clams. 

Add whole pepper, cloves, mace and vinegar to boiled clams. 



FISH, OYSTERS, CLAMS, ETC. 15 

Pickled Oysters. 

Mrs. Silleck. 

Buy fine large oysters, take them out of their liquor, lay them 
in a kettle, sprinkle well with salt, pour boiling water over 
them, and allow them just to come to a boil. Have ready a pan 
of ice water with a lump of ice remaining in it, take oysters out 
of the hot and place them immediately in ice water; this pro- 
cess makes them white and plump; when cool, spread on mar- 
ble or between cloths dipped in cold water, boil and strain the 
liquor; with every pt. add one pt. of good vinegar, one gill of 
lemon juice, a few blades of mace, one tablespoonful of whole 
cloves, same of whole black pepper; let it boil, and pour over 
the oysters while boiling hot. 

Clam Fritters. 

Mrs. Ward. 

Drain thoroughly twenty-five middle-sized clams. Beat up 
with four or five eggs, fry in equal parts of butter and lard. 

Cream Fish, splendid. 

Mrs. Haxtun. 
Two lbs. of haddock or rock fish, a pt. of cream, an eighth 
of a lb. of butter, a tablespoonful of flour. Put a little salt in 
the water and boil your fish well; when done skin it, take out 
all the bones and flake it with a fork. Then take your dTream 
or very rich milk and boil it, and after beating your butter and 
flour to a cream, stir it in the hot cream, which must be seasoned, . 
and if you like put the heart of a small onion in it. You then 
butter a dish and put a layer of fish and one of dressing until 
the dish is filled, but be sure to make the dressing come last. 
Cover the whole with a layer of bread crumbs and bake in the 
oven. 



16 RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 

Potted Shad. 

Mrs. Doubleday. 

Clean the shad and cut it in small pieces, put it in a small 
stone crock, and sprinkle with whole peppers, salt and mace ; 
fill the jar with vinegar, cover over with a piece of muslin and 
bread dough, and bake in a very moderate oven twenty-four 
hours. The bones will be found entirely dissolved. 

Stewed Terrapin. 

Mrs. Haxtun. 
Boil the terrapins. In opening the animals save the juice that 
comes from them. Sprinkle with Cayenne pepper and salt that 
have been previously mixed, put on the fire some cream with 
butter and flour nicely mixed, boil, then put in the terrapins, 
boil again without boiling to pieces. Put wine in just before 
serving. 

Clam Chowder. 

Mrs. Walz. 

To fifty medium sized clams add one gallon of cold water. 
Stand them over the fire until the shells open, then take them 
up and chop them fine, add to the water in which the clams 
were boiled one lb. of salt pork cut in small pieces, about one 
dozen good sized potatoes, then tomatoes, onions and seasoning 
to taste. Place in dish with alternate layers of bread crumbs^ 
haviiig chopped clams for top layer. 



MEATS. 17 



MEATS. 



Filet of Veal. 

Remove the bone ; fill the cavity with dressing, made same 
as for Tur'key. Skewer the veal tight, to keep the dressing in. 
Make deep incisions all over the surface of the meat and fill 
closely with the dressing ; baste often, A piece weighing eight 
lbs. requires about three hours to bake. Pickled Ham with 
the bone removed is excellent baked in the same manner. 

Sweetbreads. 

Soak in salt and water. Fry them a nice brown ; season with 
Cayenne pepper and salt. For the gravy, half a teacup of the thin 
part of cooked tomatoes, two tablespoonfuls of wine; thicken 
with butter and flour, season with cloves, pepper and salt. 



Roast Beef. 

"Wash the joint and wipe thoroughly; place in oven; remem- 
ber never to season meat until it begins to brown. Then 
dredge with salt, pepper and flour, and baste often. When 
done place on a hot dish. To the gravy remaining in the pan 
add one gill of water, a little flour, pepper and salt. 

For Roast Lamb and Mutton — see Roast Beef. 



Corned Mutton. 

Miss Moffat. 

Two small cups of salt, a little lump of saltpeter, one tea- 
spoonful of sugar. Boil three hours. 



18 RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 

Stuffed Lamb. 

Mils. Thomas. 

From three to four lbs. breast or fore-quarter of lamb. 
Wash with cold water, rub well with salt inside and out. Stuff 
with a dressing made of dry bread, pepper, salt, butter and a 
little hot water. Sprinkle with pepper, salt and flour and bake 
in a quick oven about two hours. 

To Corn BeeC 

Mrs. L. Thomas. 

Put salt in cold water until it will bear up an egg, and add 
about one tablespoonful of brown sugar. Leave some salt in 
the bottom of a stone crock. Rub your beef well with dry- 
salt and put it in the brine with a weight to keep it under ; a 
piece of the brisket or cross rib is best. It takes from three 
days to one week, according to size. 

Sugar-Cured Ham, Virginia Style. 

Mrs. J. Moore. 
Ham one year old, ten to fourteen lbs., half hour to a 
lb., simmer in warm water. Keep until cold, then skin. 
Spread over top of ham one egg beaten with large tablespoon- 
ful of brown sugar, two of vinegar, one small teaspoonful of dry- 
mustard and thickened with cracker-dust. Sprinkle with vine- 
gar. Bake one hour. Baste constantly one hour with its own 
essence. 

Ham, Hartford Club. 

Mrs. J. Moore. 
Soak ham four days, changing the water twice a day. Then 
put on to simmer four hours in cider and a handful of new- 
mown hay. After it is done take off the skin and pour sherry 
or claret over it, and a little fine sugar. Then brown in the 
oven. 



MEATS. 19 

Baked Ham. 

Mrs. W. B, Kendall. 
Soak the ham twenty-four hours in cold water. Make a 
paste of flour and water, stiff enough to roll. Cover the ham 
entirely, bone and all, with the paste. Put in a pan, on two 
or three muffin-rings or anything that will keep it an inch or so 
from the bottom of the pan. Bake in a hot oven. A twelve-lb. 
ham requires four hours' baking. Tlie paste forms a hard crust 
around the ham, and the skin comes off with it. 

Spiced Beef. 

Miss Mecham. 
Three lbs. beef chopped fine, three eggs well beaten, 
one tablespoon milk, one of salt, one teaspoonful pepper, cloves 
and nutmeg to taste, two soda-crackers powdered, mix all well 
together, cover with pieces of butter, baste well. Bake one 
hour and a quarter. Then press with weight, cut cold in 
slices. 

Dish for Tea. 

Mrs. Churchman. 

One lb, of beef, one lb. of veal chopped, boil in a very little 
water, when done season. Put into a mold, cut in slices when 
cold. 

Slewed Beef. 

S. B. D. 

Put a piece of butter size of an egg into a pan, when very 
hot have ready a choice piece of solid meat and put in raw and 
let it fry until nice aud brown, then pour over a pt. of water 
and cover tight and let cook two hours or until done. Have 
nice little onions or carrots cooked separately (or with it), and 
cut in slices and put on the meat just before taking up, wet a 
little flour and mix into your gravy, cook a minute or so and 
pour over the whole. 



30 RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 



Pressed Tongue or Ham. 

Mrs. Silleck. 

Remains of tongue and ham chopped fine, with this mix a 
little made mustard. Have ready one cup of gelatine prepared 
without sweetening, after wetting mold with cold water, pour 
in first a little gelatine, lay on top of this sliced lemons and 
hard boiled eggs, so that your design may be visible when 
turned out. Then add layer of meat, then gelatine, and so 
on till the mold is full. 



Force Meat Balis, nice. 

Miss L. Middleton. 

Mix with one lb. of chopped veal (other meat can be 
used) one egg, a little butter or raw pork chopped fine, one 
cup of bread crumbs, the water from stewed meat, season with 
salt and pepper, make into small balls and fry brown. 



Beef's Heart. 

If not already open, cut it on the side, boil about fifteen or 
twenty minutes; then fill with nice dressing and bake until 
tender. 

Kidney Omelette. 

Remove all skin, fat and sinew from a fresh kidney, whether 
fiheep's or calf's. Cut it small, season well, fry in hot butter. 
Beat six eggs together with a glassful of white wine ; heat a 
little butter in a frying-pan, pour in the eggs, and before they 
are regularly set place the kidney in the middle ; turn in the 
ends of the omelette and serve; garnish with thin slices of 
lemon. 



MEATS. 21 

Venison Steaks. 

Season with pepper and salt. When the gridiron has been 
well heated over a bright bed of coals, grease the bars, and 
lay the steaks upon it. Broil them well, turning only once, and 
taking care to save as much of the gravy as possible. Serve 
with currant jelly laid on each steak. 

To make Croquelles. 

Take cold fowl or fresh meat of any kind, with slices of 
ham, fat or lean; chop together very fine, add half as much 
stale bread grated, some salt, pepper, nutmeg, a teaspoonful of 
made mustard, tablespoon of catsup and a lump of butter; 
knead all well together until it resembles sausage meat ; make 
up in cakes or balls size of a walnut, dip in yolks of eggs 
(beaten), cover thickly with grated bread and fry a light brown. 

To Boil Corned Beef. 

Wash it thoroughly and put in a pot that will hold plenty of 
w^ater. The water should be foiling ; the same care is neces- 
sary in skimming it as for fresh meat. Allow half an hour to 
every lb. of meat after it has commenced to boil. Much 
depends on its being boiled gently and long. If to be eaten 
cold, lay it when boiled into a coarse earthen dish or pan, and 
over it a piece of board size of the meat. Upon this put a clean 
stone or a couple of flat-irons. Salt meat is much improved by 
being pressed; it presents a marble-like appearance. 

Baked Calves' Liver. 

S. p. F. 
Take a calf's liver, season very highly with pepper and salt, 
lay thin slices of salt pork over it ; put in a dripping-pan with 
some water, set in the oven to bake, baste occasionally with a 
little butter, bake for one hour and a half, serve with the 
gravy from the pan. 



32 RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 

Meat Loaf. 

Mrs. J. Raymond. 

One and a half lbs. of raw veal or beef, one quarter lb. salt 
pork, one lb. grated bread crumbs, three eggs, quarter lb. of 
butter. Season very high with pepper and salt, bake in a loaf 
and eat when cold, if salt pork is not liked, use two lbs. of 
meat, and instead of bread use eight small butter crackers 
(rolled), four eggs and a little more than half a cup of butter. 
A little nutmeg is an improvement. 

An Excellent Stew. 

Mrs. Voorhies, 

Two and a half lbs. of mutton cut in small pieces, nine pota- 
toes and two onions sliced thin; one and a half cups of flour 
and half a cup of lard or suet, rubbed together, as for pastry. 
Put a layer of mutton in bottom of sauce-pan, then a layer of 
potatoes and onions, with salt, pepper, thyme, and sage to 
taste, then a layer of mutton, etc. Cover the last layer with 
the flour. Close tightly and set where it will cook slowly for 
two hours. The steam and fat make moisture. 

Ham and Chicken Pie. 

Marion Harland. 
Cut up and parboil a tender young chicken. Line a deep 
dish with good pie-crust. Cut some thin slices of cold boiled ham 
and spread a layer next the crust, then arrange pieces of fowl 
on the ham. Cover this in turn with slices of hard-boiled 
eggs, butter and pepper. Proceed in this order until your 
materials are used up, then pour in enough veal or chicken 
gra^y to prevent dryness. Unless you have put in too much 
water for the size of tlie fowl, the liquor in which the chicken 
was boiled is best for this purpose. Bake one hour and a 
quarter for a large pie. 



MEATS. 23 

Veal Pate. 

S. B. D. 
Three and a half lbs. of the finest part of a leg of veal 
cliOj3ped fine; six crackers rolled fine; two eggs well beaten; 
piece of butter size of an egg\ good slice of salt pork chopped 
fine, one tablespoon of salt, one teaspoonful of pepper, one 
grated nutmeg ; mix all well together, then put in a dripping pan 
with a little water; press into a long shaped loaf, cover with 
rolled cracker, adding small bits of butter thickly over it. 
Bake two hours, basting often. 

Nice Way of Using Cold Meat. 

Mrs, Silleck. 
Take any kind of cold meat you may happen to have in the 
house, chop it, season well with salt and pepper, butter 
a baking dish, have ready some mashed potatoes, put first a 
layer of meat, adding a little butter or stock if you have it, 
then a layer of potatoes, next meat, proceed in this manner 
until dish is full. Let the last layer be of potatoes, strew 
small lumps of butter over it and bake brown. 

Lamb Stew. 

Miss C. Shivei^y. 
Four lbs. of the fore-quarter of lamb, cut up in small pieces, 
boiled until tender in water enough to cover it, wdien done sea- 
son wdth pepper, salt, butter and a little thickening made of 
flour and water. Take bread and toast it a nice brown, then 
cut it into squares and cover the platter with it, then turn the 
stew over it. Cold meat left from the day before may be 
used. 



24 RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 

Collared Pork. 

Mrs. Taylor. 

A leg of fresh pork, two tablespoonfuls powdered sage, two 
of sweet marjoram, quarter of an oz, of mace powdered, half 
oz. clo/es, two nutmegs, one bunch pot-herbs, chopped fine, a 
loaf of stale bread, grated fine, half lb. butter, two eggs, 
one tablespoonful salt, pepper to taste. Mix all with grated 
bread and egg, take out the bone of the leg of pork, rub 
the meat on both sides well with salt, spread the seasoning- 
thick in the hole made by taking out the bone, and tie up 
tightly and in good shape, and skewer well, put in a dripping- 
pan with water and bake two hours, basting well. 

Ropa Aiieja. 

Mrs. Haxtun. 

Take a piece of the boiled shin of beef, cut it small and flour 
it well. Fry in butter, add a sliced onion and cover with 
tomatoes. The secret of making this delicious is to boil the 
meat to rags, and reducing the liquor as nearly as possible to a 
jelly around it. 

Roast Sweetbreads. 

Mrs. Haxtun. 
Take four fine sweet-breads, trim and parboil them, lay them 
in cold water till cool, afterward dry them with a 
cloth. Put some butter in a saucepan, melt and skim it, 
when clean take it off, skewer each sweet-bread and fastej 
them on a spit, then glaze them over with beaten eggs and 
sprinkle with bread crumbs, spread on some of the clarified 
butter, and then another coat of crumbs. Roast before a clear 
fire at least quarter of an hour. Have ready some nice veal 
gravy flavored with lemon juice, and pour it round the sweet- 
breads before sending to the table. 



MEATS. 25 

Calves' Head Pie. 

Mrs. Haxtun. 

Boil the head one hour and a half, or rather more ; after din- 
ing from it cut the remaining meat off in slices, boil the bones 
in a little of the liquor for three hours, then strain it off, and 
let it remain till the next day. To make the pie, boil two eggs 
hard and put in the pie with alternate layers of meat, eggs, 
jelly and chopped lemon. Season with pepper and cover over 
with bread crumbs or rich crust and bake it. 

Beefsteak. 

Purchase either porterhouse or tenderloin half an inch 
thick. The gridiron must be hot and well greased when the 
steak is placed on it, when nicely browned on one side turn it 
over, watch carefully that it does not burn, do not stick your 
fork into the center of the steak as so much juice will be 
wasted. Season with pepper and salt and butter, and place in 
oven a few minutes before serving. 

Veal Olives. 

Mrs. Haxtun. 

Cut large slices from a leg of veal, put a layer of force-meat 
and one of stuffing made of bread, butter and egg, then roll them 
up tight and tie them, and cover them with bread crumbs, put 
them in an oven and put onions, salt and pepper with a few 
cloves, when done make a rich gravy. 

For Curing Beef. 

Mrs. Haxtun. 

To eight gals, of water add two lbs, of brown sugar, one qt. 
of molasses, four ozs. niter, and fine salt till it will float an egg. 
This is enough for two common quarters of beef. Has been re- 
peatedly tried and found very fine. 



26 KELIABLE COOK BOOK. 

Larded Sweetbreads. 

Mrs. Haxtun. 
Half boil them, then lay them in cold water, prepare a force- 
meat of grated bread, lemon-peel, butter, salt, pepper and 
nutmeg mixed with beaten yolk of an egg. Cut open the 
sweetbreads, stuff them, and fasten them up wath a skewer or 
pack-thread, have ready some slips of bacon fat and slips of 
lemon-peel, cut as tine as small straw^s, lard the sweet-breads 
in alternate rows of bacon and lemon-peel, do it regularly, then 
put them in a Dutch oven and bake them brown. Serve w-ith 
veal gravy, add a glass of Madeira and the yolk of an egg at 
the last. 

Beef a la Mode. 

Round of beef w^eighing six lbs., make a stuffing of bread, 
sweet-herbs, pepper, salt, cloves and allspice, cut holes in the 
meat and fill. Tie in a cloth and stew^ gently two hours with 
only enough water to cover it. Then place it in a dripping, 
pan, with some of the liquor it was stewed in, put in the 
oven, baste often and bake two hours. Serve with gravy 
around it. 

Yorkshire Pudding. 

Three-fourths of a pt. of flour, three eggs, one and a half pts. 
milk, pinch of salt, one and a half teaspoonfuls Roj^al Baking 
Powder. Sift the flour and powder together, add the eggs, 
beaten with the milk, stir quickly into a rather tliinner batter 
than for griddle cake, pour it in a dripping pan well dut- 
tered ; rest the meat on skewers two inches above the pudding, 
allowing the juice to drip on it; if not enough fat on the meat 
to prevent its burning, place small pieces of butter on it. 

French Cutlets. 

Mrs, Hobart. 
Dip cutlets first in beaten raw egg, then in bread crumbs, fry 
in Jwt lard. (Have the chops trimmed by the butcher.) 



MEATS. 27 

To Dress a Pig's Head. 

Mrs. Haxtun. 
Boil the head, liver, lights and feet till done, chop them very- 
fine, make a brown gravy with butter, pepper, salt, and all- 
spice to your taste, add a little wine, mix it well with the 
mince, and put that and the feet round the head and bake it 
brown. 

Curried Dishes. 

Mrs. Haxtun. 

Veal and chicken are the best for curry. Boil the meat till 
tender, and separate the joints. Put a little butter in the 
stew-pan with the cliickens, pour on a part of the liquor in 
which the meat was boiled, nearly enough to cover it, and let 
it stew twenty minutes more. Prepare the curry thus: for 
four lbs. of meat, one tablespoonful curry powder, one tea- 
cup boiled rice, one tablespoonful flour, same of melted butter, 
teacup of liquor, half teaspoon of salt, mix and pour over the 
meat, and let it stew ten minutes more. Boiled rice as an ac- 
companiment. 

Stewed Tripe. 

Mrs. W. Kendall. 
Tripe cut in small pieces, two onions cut in slices, and fried 
in half a lb. of lard. Put in the tripe, and cook a little 
and then add one cup vinegar, one bowl beef broth, salt, pep- 
per, three tablespoonfuls flour. Let the whole stew about fif- 
teen minutes. 

Ham Sandwiches. 

Chop the ham rather fine, season with made mustard, a little 
butter and pepper. Cut very thin slices of (sandwich) bread, 
take off the crust, butter each slice, lay on dressed ham, and 
cover with another slice. Turkey chopped and seasoned with 
pepper, salt and celery seed are very nice. 



28 RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 

To Bake a Pig. 

Take a pig four or five weeks old, have the butcher clean it 
thoroughly, fill it with a stuffing made of onions, sage and 
bread crumbs, sew up and tie the feet, place a stick of wood in 
the mouth to keep it open, put in pan well buttered, with a 
little water, butter the pig to prevent its blistering ; it will re- 
quire about three hours to bake. When done take out the 
wood and put an ear of corn in its mouth. Skim off the fat 
from the dish it was baked in, and some good gravy will re- 
main at the bottom. Add a little butter rolled in flour and 
boil it up with the brains, pour it into a dish and serve. 

Beef a la Royal. 

Take all the bones out of a brisket of beef, and make holes 
in it about an inch apart. Fill one hole with fat bacon, a sec- 
ond with chopped parsley and a third with chopped oysters. 
Season these stuffings with pepper, salt, and nutmeg. When the 
beef is stuffed, put it into a pan, pour over it a pt. of wine boil- 
ing hot, dredge well with flour and place in oven, let it remain 
three hours, when taken out skim off fat, put the meat into 
your dish and strpin the gravy over it. Garnish with pickles. 



POULTRY, GAME, ETC. 29 



POULTRY, GAME, ETC. 



Boned or Pressed Turkey. 

Mrs. Silleck. 

One knuckle of veal weighing two lbs., one slice of lean 
ham, one shallot or onion, sprig of thyme, parsley and celery, 
one carrot, teo pepper-corns, and one teaspoonful of salt, three 
pts. cold water, boil all these gently until the liquor is reduced 
to one pt,, then strain without squeezing and let stand until 
next day, it will then be a firm jelly; scrape off every particle 
of fat. One package of gelatine soaked in one pt. of cold 
water half an hour, two tablespoonfuls lemon juice and one of 
currant jelly dissolved in cold water, nearly one qt. boiling 
water poured over the gelatine, stir softly, add the jellied 
stock, then lemon, etc., stir all together, and strain through a 
flannel bag, have ready four or five hard boiled eggs. The re- 
mains of cold roasted or boiled turkey, chicken, beef or veal, 
jointly or alone, chopped not too fine and well seasoned with 
celery; Charlotte Russe pans are nice to use ; dip in cold water, 
do not wipe; when the jelly begins to congeal, pour a very 
thin layer in your pan, cut the whites of your eggs in pretty 
shapes, arrange them on this lower stratum of jelly ; if you de- 
sire you can add sliced lemon, pickle, etc. Pour in a little 
more jelly, then a layer of meat, another of jelly, proceed until 
you have used up all your meat, last layer must be jelly. Set in 
a cool place, when cold turji out on a flat dish, garnish with 
parsley or lettuce. You will have a dish as pleasing to the eye 
as to the palate. 



30 RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 

Chicken Salad. 

Mrs. J. Hebert, 

The white meat of a cold boiled or roasted chicken or turkey, 
three-quarters the same bulk of chopped celery, two hard- 
boiled eggs, one raw egg well beaten, one teaspoonful of salt, 
one of pepper, one of made mustard, three of salad oil, two of 
white sugar and half a teaspoonful of vinegar. Mince the meat 
well, removing every scrap of gristle and skin; cut the celery 
into bits half an inch long or less, mix them and set aside in 
a cold place while you prepare the dressing. Rub the yolks 
of the eggs to a fine powder, add the salt, pepper and sugar, 
then the oil, grinding hard and putting in but a few drops at a 
time. The mustard comes next, and let all stand together while 
you whip the raw egg to a froth. Beat this into the dressing, 
and pour in the vinegar spoonful by spoonful, whipping the 
dressing well as you do it. Sprinkle a little dry salt over the 
meat and celery, toss it up lightly with a silver fork, pour the 
dressing over it, tossing and mixing until the bottom of the 
mass is as well saturated as the top; turn into the salad bowl 
and garnish with white of egg (boiled) cut into rings or flowers 
and sprigs of bleached celery tops. If you cannot get celery, 
substitute crisp white cabbage, and use celery vinegar in the 
dressing. You can also in this case chop some green pickles, 
gherkins, mangoes or cucumbers and stir in. 

Chicken Salad. 

Mrs. Titus. 

Boil a chicken, when cold cut in small bits; cut the white 
part of a bunch of celery into small pieces. For dressing rub 
the yolks of hard-boiled eggs smooth, and to each yolk half a 
teaspoon of mustard, some suet, one tablespoon sweet oil and a 
wine-glass of vinegar ; mix the chicken and celery in a dish and 
pour the dressing over just before using. 



POULTRY, GAME, ETC. . 31 

Choosing Fowl. 

Select a goose with a clean and white skin, plump breast, 
and yellow feet, if these latter are red the bird is old. Tur- 
hey. — If the bird has been long killed, the eyes will appear 
sunk, and the feet very dry ; if fresh the contrary will be the 
case. 

Boned Chicken. 

S. B. D. 

Boil one chicken till it falls in pieces, boil with it a smalt 
piece of lean salt pork. Take the meat off the bones, pound the 
bones, and put them back into the liquor in which the chicken 
was boiled; add a pinch of gelatine (after dissolving it) ; when 
ready for the molds, cut hard-boiled eggs in pieces and place 
on the bottom and sides of the molds; the meat the same, 
white and dark alternating. Fill the mold with the liquor 
strained. 

Chicken Croqueltes. 

S. B, D. 

Take cold veal or chicken, chop fine, and about one-third cold 
ham chopped fine ; pepper, nutmeg and salt to taste ; make 
quite thin by adding milk, make stiff again with rolled 
cracker, add melted butter and a little chopped parsley, roll in 
balls, dip in egg and cracker dust and fry in boiling lard. 



Potted Pigeon. 

After picking, drawing and washing well, cut off the pinions, 
dry well with a cloth, season with pepper and salt, roll a lump 
of butter in chopped parsley and put it into the pigeons, sew 
them up, place in a pot, cover them with butter, bake in a. 
moderately heated oven ; when done, put them in potting pots, 
and pour clarified butter over them. Keep in a dry place. 



33 RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 

Polage a la Reine, 

Mrs. Taylor. 
Put one chicken, one pound of rice, three cloves and a small 
•onion, one carrot, in cold water enough to cover them, adding 
a little salt. Boil three and a half hours slowly ; the chicken 
should boil up and skim it before you put in the vegetables. 
Strain through a sieve. Pound the white meat of the chicken 
and press that through a coarse sieve. Add veal stock or 
chicken stock if you have them ; but if you have neither, add 
boiling water ; season with pepper, salt and nutmeg. After you 
have prepared it thus you must not put it over the fire only as 
you place it in a pan of hot water, else it will curdle. Add 
half pt. of cream or rich milk. 

Jellied Chicken. 

Mrs, H. Forker. 
Boil a pair of chickens, covering them entirely with water ; 
boil till the meat falls from the bone, put it on a dish to cool, 
leaving the bones to boil about twenty minutes longer ; strain 
the liquid and let it cool. Next morning cut the chicken in 
pretty small pieces, take the fat from the jelly, warm the jelly, 
season it with salt, black pepper, a little mace and allspice; 
add two tablespoonfuls of walnut catsup and one or two of 
Worcestershire sauce. Stir the chicken in the liquor while hot ; 
line the bowl with slices of hard-boiled egg and sliced lemon, 
eight eggs to a pair of chickens ; cool in a refrigerator. If 
more jelly is required dissolve a little of Cox's gelatine. 

Slewed Pigeons 

Mrs. Wilder. 
Slice eight onions and fry in butter a nice brown, clean 
pigeons whole; put in each little salt, pepper, thyme and 
parsley ; take the onions from the butter, fry the birds a nice 
brown, add water and the onions, thicken and stew them about 
one hour and a half or two hours. 



MEATS. 33 

Quail on Squab Pie. 

Mrs, Sumner. 

Half doz. birds, one aud a half lbs. steak cut thick, half lb. 
salt fat pork, six sprigs of parsley, two onions. Put pepper 
and salt inside each bird, cut the steak into dice, one inch 
square or less ; chop the pork, onions and parsley fine, separately. 
Line the sides of a deep dish with paste ; put the steak in the 
bottom of the dish, with pepper and salt to taste ; then the birds, 
the pork, the onions and the parsley in layers in the order 
named. Fill with water, cover with paste, and bake from one 
to one and a half hours. 

Prairie Chicken. 

Mrs. Parrott, Keokuk. 

Fill the birdfi with bread or potato stuffing, and roast same 
as other fowl. 

Quail. 

Mrs. Parrott, Keokuk. 

Stuff them with oysters, or some prefer chestnuts, boiled, 
peeled and mashed and used for stuffing instead of oysters. 
Another way to cook quail. — Split them open at the back and 
broil them, the inside must invariably be broiled first. Serve 
on toast. 

Fried Chicken. 

Mrs. Haxtun. 

Cut the chicken up one hour before cooking and lay it in salt 
and water, fry in lard with a little butter, after dipping in a 
batter made of two eggs, flour, pepper and nutmeg. Make a 
gravy of half a cup of cream, butter, pepper and nutmeg, put 
the gravy in the pan after the lard is poured off and let it 
boil. Dredge in flour. 

2 



34 RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 



A Fricassee of Chicken. 

Mrs. Silleck. 

Cut a pair of chickens into pieces, place in stew-pan with 
water enough to cover them (cold water), let them boil till ten- 
der, season with pepper and salt. The gravy or sauce — Two 
teaspoonf uls flour, mixed with cold water, to make it like a thin 
batter, stir until free from lumps, add to it half a pt. of boiling 
milk and quarter of a lb. of butter. Have ready toasted bread 
on a platter, place the chicken on this ; pour the gravy over the 
whole and serve. 

Baked Turkey. 

Mrs. Taylor. 

Put the turkey in a baking-pan (after it is cleaned, stuffed 
and trussed), with half cup of cold water ; baste often and when 
about half done season well with pepper and salt and butter, 
also dredge with flour ; requires about two hours to bake a tur- 
key. Serve with cranberry sauce. 

Chicken Pot Pie. 

Mrs. Hobart. 

Cut the chicken small, with some thin slices of salt pork, 
cover with cold water, boil until tender, turn it out in a dish, 
grease your vessel well, then alternate layers of sliced raw pota- 
toes with the chicken, using plenty of seasoning, salt and pep- 
per ; make a soda-biscuit crust (about one qt. of flour makes 
plenty), with very little shortening ; line the sides of vessel, 
cover the top with a crust about half an inch thick, cutting 
a hole in the middle. Pour the broth over with enough boiling 
water to cover ; boil about ten minutes, then slide it in the oven 
and bake until brown (about ten minutes), thicken the gravy 
with flour. Veal done the same way is excellent. 



MEATS. 35 

Boiled Turkey. 

Mrs. Haxtun. 

Make a stuffing of chopped bread and butter, cream, oysters 
and yolks of eggs. Sew it in and dredge flour over the turkey ; 
put it to boil in cold water, with a spoonful of salt in it, and 
enough water to cover well, simmer for two hours and a half, 
less time if small ; skim while boiling. It will present a better 
appearence if wrapped in a cloth dredged with flour ; serve with 
drawn butter, in which put some oysters. Always draw poultry 
six hours before cooking, or longer. 



36 RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 



SALADS AND SAUCES. 



Carrot Salad. 

Mrs, VooiiHis. 
Take four large carrots, one onion, handful of parsley, a 
small head of lettuce; boil the carrots and slice them or cut in 
small pieces if preferred, the onion chop raw, with part of the 
parsley or lettuce, leaving the other part for the side of the 
salad bowl ; boil one egg and rub it to paste, then add teaspoon- 
ful salt, half teaspoonful of pepper, heaping teaspoonful mus- 
tard and three of oil or butter, cup of vinegar ; mix all together 
and serve in salad bowl. 

Lettuce Salad. 

Mrs. Thomas. 
Chop three heads of white lettuce, rub the yolks of two hard- 
boiled eggs to a powder and add one teaspoonful of white 
sugar, one of pepper, one half teaspoon salt, same of made 
mustard and teaspoonful of salad oil; let it stand live minutes, 
then beat in four tablespoonfuls vinegar. Put the lettuce in a 
bowl and add the dressing thus made, tossing it through with 
a fork. Decorate with the whites of the boiled eggs and put 
a piece of ice in the bottom of your bowl. 

Dressing for Chopped While Cabbage. 

Half cup vinegar, half cup cold water, small piece of butter; 
let boil, beat one egg and stir into it; take one teaspoonful of 
mustard, one of flour, half teaspoon of salt, a pinch of 
sugar, stir into the boiling vinegar, and let boil a few minutes. 
Pour over the cabbage and let cool before eating. 



SALADS AND SAUCES. 37 

Gold Slaw. 

Miss Sweet. 

For one cabbage take two eggs, lialf a cup of vinegar, piece 
of butter size of an egg ; beat eggs up light, pour vinegar over 
eggs, heat the butter and then pour eggs and vinegar into it. 
Let it cook till it thickens, stirring all the time ; when cooked 
pour it hot over the cold cabbage, which must be nicely cut; 
add a little salt and pepper, sprinkle on it. 

Mint Sauce. 

Mrs. Thomas. 

Two cents' worth of spear mint, chopped fine ; add sugar, 
vinegar and a little cold water. 

Pepper Sauce. 

Mrs. Thomas. 

One large head of cabbage cut fine, about twenty-five cents' 
worth of celery, also cut fine ; half a dozen small red peppers 
cut fine, half a dozen green peppers and three or four carrots, 
also cut fine ; mix well together and season with salt, ground 
mustard and mustard seed ; pour over cold vinegar enough to 
cover it. 

Chili Sauce. 

Mrs. Sumner. 

Nine big tomatoes chopped fine, two large green peppers 
(take out seeds), one onion, chop together. Two cups vinegar, 
one and a half tablespoonf uls salt, one tablespoonf ul brown sugar, 
one teaspoonful nutmeg, one of cloves, one of cinnamon, one of 
ginger, one of allspice. Boil one and a half hours. 



38 KELIABLE COOK BOOK. 



Hot Slaw. 

One head of red cabbage cut fine; pla^elu a porcelain kettle 
one cup of vinegar, two tablespoonfuls butter, pepper and salt 
to taste. Simmer fifteen minutes. 

Sauce for Mushroom Pdtes. 

S. B. D. 

Aj)iece of butter size of a lemon, melted slowly; stir in 
afterward a heaping tablespooaful of flour until quite creamy; 
add salt and pepper to taste, then a little milk, addiog last half 
a pt. of real cream until it thickens on the fire. It can be put 
aside until time to cook the mushrooms in the sauce, which 
should only be for a few minutes; warm the pates in the oven 
and pour the sauce and mushrooms in. 

Mayonnaise Sauce. 

Mrs. Ruland. 

Mix in a two-qt. bowl, to allow room for beating, one even 
teaspoonful ground mustard and oae of salt, with one and a 
half of vinegar; beat in the yolk of a raw egg, then add grad- 
ually from the measure, holding it in the left hand, half a pt. 
of pure olive oil; pour it in the smallest^ thread-like stream 
while with the other hand the beating is brisk and uninterrupt- 
ed. The mixture will become a very thick batter. Flavor 
with vinegar or fresh lemon juice. 

Egg Sauce for Fish. 

Miss Sweet. 

One quarter of a lb. of butter mixed with three tablespoon- 
fuls of flour, stir into a pt. of water ; chop three hard-boiled 
eggs, season with salt, pepper and parsley ; boil until thick. 



SALADS AND SAUCES. 39 



Chicken Salad Dressing. 

Mrs. Ide, 

Four eggs, small teaspoonf ul mustard, half a teaspoon of salt, 
same of Cayenne pepper, or less if hot dressing is not liked ; 
half a teacupful of sweet oil, one to two tablespoonfuls vinegar, 
one of cream or milk, piece of butter size of a walnut, boil three 
eggs hard ; when cold mash the yolks with butter, mustard, salt 
and pepper till they are smooth and light ; add a little of the oil 
as you mash, which will make it easier, add cream, open the 
other egg, separating the yolk from white ; throw the yolk into 
a bowl and beat with a fork till it becomes thick, then add few 
drops at a time, mix the oil, beating all the while. If properly 
. done it will become thick like paste ; then pour in the vinegar 
and beat thoroughly, mix the two finally well together. This 
dressing will keep for a week, the oil never separating. If it 
is a little too thick thin the cream or milk, but do it carefully. 
This amount is generally sufficient for three and a half lbs. 
of chicken and celery. Should the oil be put in too fast or too 
much at a time it becomes thin, and does not become thorough- 
ly incorporated with the egg. 



Oyster Stuffing for Poultry. 

Two doz. oysters, strain the liquor off, add one pt. of bread 
crumbs, two ozs. of butter, season with pepper, salt and mace ; 
wet the stuffing with the liquor from oysters and stuff the bird. 



Essence of Celery. 

Mrs, Haxtun. 

Steep an oz. of celery seed in half a pt . of vinegar. A few 
drops of this gives a fine flavor to soup and sauce for fowls. 



40 RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 

Stuffing for Turkey. 

Take a loaf of bread (cut the crust off), soak it in water, 
when thoroughly soaked squeeze dry, add one onion chopped 
fine, one egg, season with pepper, salt and summer savory. 

Goose StufTing. 

Slice of pork (chopped), two large onions, bread crumbs and 
a teaspoonful each of^'pepper, salt and sage. Potatoes^may be 
used if preferred to bread. To|[destroy the fishy taste of wild 
duck (for which this stuffing may also be used), parboil^them 
with a carrot cut in pieces in each, after which remove the car- 
rot and stuff. 

Drawn Butter. 

Four ozs, of butter, two tablespoonfuls flour, mix tlie flour 
with one pt. of water to a smooth paste, place on the stove 
in a saucepan, adding the butter and salb to taste; boil three 
minutes, stirring one way that it may not become lumpy. 
Capers may be added to this sauce ; cut them, do not chop, and 
add one half teaspoon of pepper and some anchovy essence. 

Potato Salad. 

Boil a doz. large potatoes, peel them, and when nearly cold 
slice thin or chop, add'two large onions (raw) chopped, salt and 
pepper to taste, one cup vinegar, half cup melted butter or four 
tablespoonfuls of salad oil. 

Anchovy Sauce. 

Put an anchovy into half a pt. of gravy, with a quarter of a lb. 
of butter rolled in a little flour, stir together until it boils; you 
may add at your discretion a little lemon juice, red wine 
or walnut liquor. 



SALADS AND SAUCES. 41 

Caper Sauce. 

Take some capers, chop half of them very fine and put the rest 
in whole ; chop also some parsley with a little grated bread and 
some salt, put them into butter melted very smooth, let them 
boil up and then pour it into your sauce-boat. 



42 RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 



EGGS. 



Omelette. 

Mrs. a. D. French, M.D, . 

Take the yolks of six eggs, beat them light, have ready one 
even teaspoonful of corn starch flour mixed thoroughly in six 
tablespoons of milk, one teaspoonful salt, mix this together; 
heat pan and have it hot, then beat the whites of the eggs, and 
stir quickly to the yolks, then pour into the pan, but do not 
stir it ; when done it will be about an inch in thickness, fold it 
in halves when you put it on the plate. You can, for dessert, 
sprinkle sugar on and drop on currant jelly. 

Omelette Souffle. 

Miss L. Middleton. 

One pt. boiled milk, three spoonfuls flour, yolks of seven 
eggs beaten with the flour. Season with pepper and salt. Add 
piece of butter size of an egg, mix well, then add the whites 
well beaten. Bake twenty minutes. 

Salad Eggs. 

Mrs. Silleck. 

Boil ten eggs hard, take off shells, cut in halves, and place 
on dish garnished with whole lettuce leaves. Pour over the 
eggs Durkee's Salad Dressing and j-ou will have a nice little 
dish for luncheon. 



EGGS. 43 

Omelette. 

Mks, Walz. 

Four eggs, beat whites and yolks separately, half cup 
of milk, half (scant) teaspoon corn starch, fold in halves. 

Omelette Souffle. 

Fannie. 

Take as many even tablespoonfuls sugar as you do eggs, beat 
the yolks, then stir in the sugar, add lemon juice or vanilla to 
flavor ; when the whites are beaten to a froth, stir them in with 
the yolks. Heat in the oven the dish it is to be baked in ; 
when all is ready grease the tin with butter, turn the mixture 
in and bake six or eight minutes. 

Poached Eggs. 

Have a skillet on the fire with boiling water, break the 
eggs, taking care that the yolks are not broken, pour them 
gently in the boiling water, three at a time, season with pepper 
and salt. Toast bread (after cutting the crust off) a delicate 
brown ; when the eggs have simmered two minutes take up and 
place one on each slice of toast, a teaspoonf ul of vinegar added 
to water will prevent eggs from breaking. 

Boiled Eggs. 

The water must be toiling when the eggs are put in, to boil 
soft requires three minutes, hard five minutes. 

To Test Eggs. 

Place in a pan of water (cold), the fresher the egg is the 
sooner it will sink to the bottom. 



44 RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 

Baked Omelelle. 

Mrs. Hulburt. 

Six eggs, one tablespoon of melted butter, little salt, and on« 
gill of milk. Beat the whites and yolks of the eggs separately, 
mix all together and bake about fifteen minutes. 

To Preserve Eggs. 

The best method is to keep them in meal or bran; if necessary 
to keep them a long while, it is better to bury them in salt, 
which will preserve them in almost any climate. 



VEGETABLES. 45 



VEGETABLES. 



While Potatoes. 

Wash clean, put in saucepan with just enough water to cover 
them, take about twenty minutes to cook, when done pour olf 
water, throw in some salt, leave cover off and allow steam to 
evaporate, remove skins and serve, or mash, adding a little but- 
ter, pepper and salt, and milk, and smooth top nicely, add a 
few bits of butter, and place in oven to brown, or put in scol- 
lop shells, score with knife and brown. 

Sweet Potatoes. 

Same as white^ or parboil them, peel, cut in halves, place in 
pudding dish, season with pepper and salt, plenty of butter, 
and a i:ery little boiling water, brown nicely, and serve in same 
dish. 

To Cook Potatoes under Meat. 

Wash clean, peel, cut in halves (lengthwise), put in dripping- 
pan under meat, and season and baste same as meat. 

Potato Chips. 

Wash and peel some potatoes, cut ribbon-like, into long 
lengths, put them into cold water to remove strong potato 
flavor, drain them, and throw them into a pan with a little but- 
ter, and fry them a light brown. Take them out and place 
close to fire on a sieve to dry before serving, sprinkle a little salt 
over them. 



46 RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 

Corn Chowder. 

Mrs. Churchman. 

Six onions chopped fine, cook in a cup of butter until ten- 
der, then add six ears of corn cut from the cob, six potatoes 
peeled and sliced thin, six crackers, two qts, of water. Boil 
all together until potatoes are done, one qt. of milk boiled 
separately, add it last, and boil all together for a few moments. 
Do not stir while cooking, as it spoils the appearance of the 
dish. In winter use canned corn. 

Corn and Tomato. 

Com boiled on the cob, then cut off and canned with toma- 
toes, in the usual manner of canning tomatoes, it will keep 
well and be an excellent dish. Have twice as much tomato as 
corn. 

Potato Croquettes. 

H. S. G. 

Season cold mashed potatoes with pepper and salt. Beat to 
a cream with a tablespoonful of melted butter to every cupful 
of potato. Beat two or three eggs light, mix them in. Add 
some parsley chopped fine, roll into oval balls, dip in beaten 
egg, then in bread crumbs, fry in hot lard. 

Cauliflowers. 

Choose those that are close and white, take off the green 
leaves, look carefully that there are no caterpillars about 
stalk. Soak an hour in cold water, then boil in milk and 
water, skim several times. Take about twenty-five minutes to 
cook. 

Green Peas. 

Shell them and wash, boil twenty minutes in water just 
enough to cover them, season with pepper, salt and butter. 



VEGETABLES. 47 



To Cook Egg Plant. 

Miss Cripps. 

Take the fruit fully ripe, cut in slices about a quarter of an 
inch thick and soak in cold salted water for two hours. Then 
dry the slices on a cloth, dip them in white of egg, and fry in 
boiling hot butter till nicely browned. 

Escalloped Tomatoes. 

Mrs. Hulbert. 

Put a layer of tomatoes in an earthen dish, then one of bread 
or rolled cracker crumbs, with a little butter, pepper and salt, 
another of tomatoes, another of bread, till the dish is full. 
Bake three-quarters of an hour. 

Asparagus. 

Mrs. Silleck. 

Scrape the stalks of two bundles of asparagus, wash in cold 
water and tie up again in bunches, place in pot with plenty of 
boiling water, a little salt and boil about twenty minutes. 
Then take out and drain it, cut off about two inches of the 
white part. Have ready toast laid on a dish, place asparagus 
tops on. Make nice fis^ sauce, only using the ^ca^er in which 
the asparagus was boiled, instead of plain boiling water. 

Spinach. 

Pick spinach clean and wash in two or three waters. 
Place in saucepan with mry little water, season with salt and 
pepper, when tender drain thoroughly in a sieve, chop fine, add 
a little butter, and garnish with hard-boiled eggs cut in 
slices. 



48 RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 

Turnips. 

Peel, cut in halves, boil until tender, then drain, mash and 
season with butter, pepper and salt. 

Onions. 

Peel and boil in water just enough to cover them, when 
nearly done throw off water, pour on one pt. of milk, a little 
butter, pepper and salt; when tender serve. 

Macaroni. 

Miss L. Silleck. 

Quantity of macaroni desired, break in small pieces, soak 
until tender on the range (put on in cold water). Place in 
pudding dish. Have ready grated cheese, milk and salt mixed 
together, pour on top of macaroni and set in oven to bake 
brown. Put bits of butter on top. 

Saratoga Potatoes. 

Peel and cut raw potatoes as thin a possible, fry in boiling 
lard until nearly done, take out for a few moments, then throw 
back into tlie hot lard and finish browning. This makes them 
swell. Season with salt. 

String Beans. 

String them, boil until tender, drain; add pepper, butter 
and salt and a little milk. 

Stewed Tomatoes. 

Place in a pan, pour boiling water over them, let stand until 
cool, when the skins will come off readily, after which put in 
saucepan, add butter, pepper and salt. Stew half-hour. 
Thicken with bread oi' cracker crumbs. 



VEGETABLES, 49 



New England Baked Beans. 

Mrs. Mason. 

One pt. beaus, small ones are best, soak over night, in the 
morning drain off the water and put in cold water to parboil, 
letting them stand about twenty minutes. On no account let 
them boil. Strain through a colander, and put in a deep 
brown earthen bean pot, allow half a lb. of fat pork put in 
the middle of the beans, one tablespoonful molasses, then 
cover with cold water, and bake seven hours, replenishing with 
cold water as it boils away. 

Mushrooms, 

Cut nice tender mushrooms in pieces, put in a saucepan and 
boil ten minutes, mix a little flour and butter together and 
stir in with mushrooms, add pepper and salt; boil once and 
serve. 

Lima Beans. 

Place in saucepan with water enough to cover them. When 
tender drain, season with pepper, salt, butter, and a very little 
milk, heated. 

Green Corn. 

Boil corn, unhiisked, in salt water enough to cover (makes the 
corn more tender) ; when cooked remove husks and send to the 
table. 

Succotash. 

Take equal quantities of lima beans and corn cut from the 
cob, put in saucepan, cover with water, adding small piece of 
salt pork, cook half-hour, add small piece of butter, season 
with pepper and salt. 



50 RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 



Stuffed Tomatoes. 

Take nice large tomatoes ; do not skin them, but scoop out a 
piece from the top of each, make a stuffing of bread crumbs, 
salt, pepper and raw egg-^ fill the tomatoes, heaping a little 
mound on each. About three-quarters of an hour to bake. 



DRINKS. 51 



CofTee, Tea, Chocolate and Cocoa. 

It is much better to buy coffee whole, roast and grind it 
yourself; while liot stir in two eggs and a small piece of butter; 
put away in a tin canister foe use. 

Boiled Coffee. 

Three tablespoonfuls of ground coSee to one pt, of 'boiling 
water; mix the coffee with cold water to a paste, add a well 
beaten egg to clear it ; pour on boiling water ; let it boil two 
minutes. 

French Coffee. 

Put the required quantity in a French coffee-pot, pour over 
boiling water, use the water at its first boil. Use Borden's con- 
densed milk. 

Tea. 

Allow one teaspoonful of tea for each person ; pour water on 
at its boiling point, let steep ; never boil tea. 

Chocolate. 

Three heaping tablespoonfuls grated chocolate (Baker's plain), 
mix chocolate to a paste with cold water, then pour on one 
pt. of boiling water, boil twenty minutes; to this add one 
pt. of boiling milk, one tablespoonful whipped cream, sweet- 
ened to taste and flavor with vanilla, place on top of chocolate 
in each cup. 



52 RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 

Cocoa. 

Prepared nearly same as chocolate; directions on wrapper. 

Choca. 

New York Times. 

Grate two ounces of chocolate, put it on the fire with a gill of 
water, stir it, when melted and rather thick add slowly half a 
pt. of boiling milk ; do not allow it to boil a|ter the milk is 
added; have ready one pt. of cafe au lait, made by mixing one 
teacupf ul of very strong coffee with one cupful boiling milk ; 
now take the vessel containing the chocolate in one hand and 
the coffee in the other, and pour them slowly in a bowl from 
the ''height of about eighteen inches; add sugar, and serve 
instantly. Coffee renders the chocolate less heavy. 



BREAKFAST AND SIDE DISHES.. 53 



Breakfast and Side Dishes 



Fondee. 

Mrs. Ludlow Thomas. 

Two ozs. of butter, four ozs. bread crumbs, eight ozs. cheese, 
one cup sweet milk, three eggs. Cut the butter and cheese 
into small pieces and place them in a large bowl with the 
bread; on this pour scalding milk, after which add the yolks 
well beaten and also a little salt; mix well together, cover 
and place on the back of the range, stirring occasionally un- 
til all is dissolved, when add the whites of the eggs beaten 
to a stiff froth, place in a buttered dish and bake in a quick 
oven about twenty minutes. Serve the moment it is taken 
out. Many eat mustard on this. 

Rice Waffles. 

Miss Kumbell. 

Take a large coffee cup of well boiled rice, stir in two 
eggs and a large tablespoonful corn starch, a teaspoonful salt, 
one qt. milk, a tablespoonful melted butter and self-raising 
flour enough to make a thick batter; if the flour is not self-rais- 
ing put in a teaspoonful cream tartar and half teaspoon of soda; 
see that your waffle irons are well heated and greased. 

Corn Oysters. 

Mrb. Silleck, 

One doz. ears of sweet corn grated, six eggs well beaten, 
two tablespoonfuls of flour, salt and pepper to taste, drop in 
boiling lard and fry brown ; they should not be larger than an 
oyster when done. 



54 RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 

Rice Croquettes. 

Mrs. Hulbert. 

One cu^) of rice boiled in one pt. of milk and one of water 
till tender, while boiling add butter size of an egg, two spoon- 
fuls sugar, three eggs, juire and g'-ated peel of one lemon, mix 
well. Make tliis into rolls about a finger long, and dip them 
first into the yolks of two eggs well beaten, then into cracker 
crumbs, and frj^ in hot lard. 

Dainty Side Dish, 

Mrs. Berge, 

Grate six parsnips, add one egg, one half teacup of flour, a 
little salt, dip up with a spoon and fry in a generous quantity 
of hot fat. 

Hominy. 

There are three sizes of hominy; large hominy (or samp) re- 
quires to be boiled from four to five hours over a gentle fire. 
It should be washed c^e?o, and pat in stew-pan with jtist enough 
water to cove*; if. It is eaten as a vegetable. Smaller iiominy 
wash in two waieis; ihen to one tencnpful of hominy add one 
qt. of water and one teaspoonful salt and place the dish that 
contains it m a kettle of boiling water to pres^ent it from burn- 
ing, else cook over a very gentle fire. Let it boil one hour, 
stirring it well with a spoon. It is generally eatea for break- 
fast. It is excellent sliced and fried after it has became cold. 



Oatmeal. 

One heaping cupful oatmeal, one qt. boiling water, one tea- 
spoonful salt. Have the salted water boiling when you add the 
oatmeal, when mixed well do not stir more than is required to 
prevent it from burning to the bottom of the pot. 



BREAKFAST AND SIDE DISHES. 55 

Oatmeal Porridge. 

Mrs. Merwin. 

Stir into a qt. and a pt, of boiling water or milk, half a lb. 
or one pt. of Heckers' oatmeal ; add a little salt, and boil half 
an hour. Serve hot or cold, with milk, cream, syrup or sugar. 

Breakfast Cakes. 

Mrs. Merwin, 

Take oatmeal porridge when cold, cut in slices, and dip into a 
batter made with eggs and flour, and brown. Serve with syrup 
or sugar. 

German Toast. 

Mrs. Wilcox. 

Take a loaf of bread, slightly stale, and after cutting off all 
the crustj cut it in pieces about three inches long, and one inch 
thick and wide. Soak these pieces for twenty minutes in a 
qt. of milk into which one egg has been beaten ; then fry them 
in boiling lard, until they are a crisp brown. Serve with 
liquid wine sauce. 

Boiled Rice. 

New York Times. 

Wash the rice well, put it on a quick fire with plenty of cold 
water, let it come to a boil, then pour off the water and add 
fresh cold water; do this a second time and then let it boil 
four or five minutes until the rice is tender, but not soft, then 
pour it into a colander and throw over it a qt, of cold water in 
which you hav-e dissolved one teaspoonful of salt, drain 
thoroughly, set the colander over a saucepan of boiling water 
to steam uncovered for twenty or twenty-five minutes ; never 
fails. 



56 RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 



Maple Syrup for Hot Cakes. 

Oue lb. of maple sugar, one lb. and a half of lump sugar, 
three qts. of water; break the maple sugar in small pieces, boil 
together five or ten minutes, skim and cool it; put a,wa,Y for 
use. 

Oyster Macaroni. 

New York Times. 

Put one quarter lb. macaroni (broken in pieces) in 
salted boiling water; boil till quite tender, place a layer of 
macaroni in the bottom, then layer of oysters ; repeat until the 
dish is full ; pour over one halfcupf ul milk and juice, and put 
small pieces butter on top, and cover with bread crumbs and 
beaten egg. Baked in the oven and garnished with boiled eggs 
and parsley. 



BREAD, ETC. m 



BREAD, ETC. 



To Prepare Potatoes for Making into Bread. 

Mrs. Hoyt. 

Boil four or live potatoes of medium size iu a qt. of water 
until they are thoroughly clone. Drain off the water and add 
to it three tablespoonfuls of flour and beat them well together. 
Pass the potatoes through a colander and mix them well 
together with the flour and water. When sufficiently cool add 
a teacupful of yeast and stir down several times during the 
rising, and let it stand over night. Wet four qts. of flour 
with warm water and add to the above; when light mold 
down and let it rise again before making it into loaves. 

Home- Made Yeast. 

Mrs. Silleck. 

Double handful of hops, tied in a thin lace bag, boiled in two 
qts. of water with eight large peeled potatoes, one penny's 
worth of bakers' yeast and one teaspoonful salt. When cold 
stir in two teacupfuls of wheat flour. 

Bread. 

Mrs. Thomas. 

Put the quantity of flour you need in a pan, make a hole in 
the middle and pour in luke-warm water. Beat thoroughly 
with an iron spoon, add one-half or the whole of the potato 
yeast and let it stand to rise ; then knead well and let it stand 
to rise again. Make into loaves and let it rise in the pans. 
Bake in a quick oven one hour. 



58 RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 



To Use Compressed Yeast. 

Half cake of compressed yeast, dissolved in about half pt. of 
lukewarm water, make a hole in the flour and mix thoroughly ; 
this quantity of yeast will make five small loaves. 



Steamed Brown Bread. 

Mrs. Greene. 

Two cups Graham flour, two yellow corn meal, two of rye 
meal (not flour), four cups of water and one of molasses ; two 
teaspoonfuls soda; steam four hours. By adding raisins and 
making a nice sauce, it makes a very nice and simple pudding 
that one need not be afraid to have children eat heartily of. 

Graham Bread. 

Mrs. Ruland. 

Six teacups of Graham flour, one teacup wheat flour, one 
teacup molasses, one teacup yeast ; stir to a thin batter and 
leave to rise over night; when light add salt and a little 
Graham flour to thicken, leaving it to rise again, not putting 
the hands in until molding. This makes one loaf. 

Parker House Rolls. 

Mrs. J, Parker. 

One pt. new milk (scald it). Put in a pan one qt, of flour, 
one tablespoonful of sugar, two of melted lard, half cup of 
yeast ; cool the milk sufficiently, then mix all together. Let it 
rise, then add one qt. of flour, stir all together, add a little 
soda, let them rise again, then roll, cut and turn in roll shape, 
put in pans to rise again ; when raised bake in a quick oven ten 
minutes. 



BREAD, ETC. 59 



Boiled Indian Bread. 

Mrs. Packek. 

Fonr Iti^cuus lodJaa meaL two of wheat flour, thiee and a 
half of souj mUK, two tcaspoonfuls soda, two of salt. Boil in 
a weM ^leasfd fa^ma toller e'gnt lioar'?; afrer bo^Ung four 
hours ccia the biead out on a plate, and put the top o1 the loaf 
in the boriom o-" ^ae bo";er. 

Corn Bread. 

Mrs. Swalm. 

One and a half cups of Indian meal, ooe egg, two table- 
spoonfuls flour, two tab'espooDruls molasses, one < ablespoonf ul 
cream tartar, half tab^.espoonful soda, the least bit of butter or 
lard. Bake ia quick oven. 

Corn Bread. 

Mrs. Smith, 

Two cups Indian meal, one of flour, rwo eggs, one pt. of 
sweet milk, two teaspoonfu^s cream tartar, one of soda, two 
tablespoon fuls sugar, o-je large tab'espconful butter; make it 
so it will pour in pan. Bake in quick oven. 

Raised Biscuit. 

Mrs. Packer. 

Two qts. flour, half teacup of butter, same of lard rubbed 
into the flour, two tablespoonfuls of yeasl, one pt. warm milk, 
a little salt. Mix all together with as little kneading as possi- 
ble; when light roll and cut out with very little flour on the 
board ; let stand in the pan about an hour and bake in quick 
oven. 



60 RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 

Muffins. 

Mrs. Cone. 

One tablespoonful sugar, two of butter, one cup milk, half 
cup water, three cups flour, two and a half teaspoonfuls baking 
powder. Hot roll pans and. hot oven. 

Steamed Graham Bread. 

Mrs. Ruland. 

Three cups Glraham flour, two cups Indian meal (yellow), 
two cups sour milk, one cup molasses, two teaspoonfuls soda, 
one teaspoonful salt. Mix the milk, molasses and soda together, 
then add the meal and flour ; mix all the ingredients thoroughly. 
Steam four hours in a mold. 

Breakfast Rolls. 

Mrs. Packer. 

Rub one oz. of butter in a qt. of flour, one egg well 
beaten, two tablespoons of yeasty a little salt, one pint of milk, 
mix together in a soft dough. Roll out in the morning with- 
out adding any flour, let stand about half an hour to rise, 
then bake in a quick oven. 

Corn Muffins. 

s. c. 

Two cups of yellow corn meal, one cup cold boiled rice, one 
egg, one tablespoonful lard, two cups milk, a little salt, two 
teaspoonfuls cream tartar, one of soda. Rub the lard well in 
the dry meal, then the rice, then the milk, egg well beaten, salt 
and soda and cream tartar. Bake in cup pans from half to 
three-quarters of an hour. 



BREAD, ETC. 61 



Third Bread Muffins. 

Mrs. Wilder. 

One cup Indian meal, two of rye meal, three of flour, one pt. 
milk or water, half cup of yeast, same of molasses. Just before 
baking add one teaspoonf ul soda , must be well raised to be 
good. 

Rice Pancakes. 

Mrs. Hobart. 

One qt. of milk, five eggs, thicken with half rice flour and 
half wheat, about three teaspoonf uls yeast powder; do not add 
the powder until just before baking. 

Muffins. 

Mrs. Packer. 

One qt. milk, two qts. flour, three eggs, half teacup yeast, 
half teaspoon salt ; when raised add half teaspoon soda just 
before baking. Bake in muffin rings in quick oven. 

Corn, Balls. 

Mrs. Churchman. 
One qt. Indian meal well scalded, one egg, teaspoonful 
salt, tablespoonful molasses. Fry in very hot lard. 

Wheat Puffs. 

Mrs. Churchman. 
Stir together a pt. of cold milk and a pt. and a quarter of 
flour, teaspoonful of salt. Take gem pans, heat them very hot 
on the top of the stove, put a small piece of butter in each pan, 
and while it is sizzling pour in the batter. Bake twenty 
minutes ; the last ten minutes set the pan on the top of the 
grating of the oven. 



62 RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 

Breakfast Cakes. 

Mrs. Avila. 

One cup of Graham flour, one cup of wheat flour (or two cups 
of wheat and no Graham), one pt. milk, one egg and little 
salt. Stir the egg when beaten into the milk, then into the 
flour, after it is well beaten together bake in a hot oven in hot 
gem pans. 

Light Tea Biscuit. 

One qt. sifted flour, add two teaspoonfuls Royal Baking 
Powder and one tablespoonful butter, mix with one pt. of milk 
or water, with one half teaspoon salt dissolved in it ; roll out 
one half -inch thick, cut with plain cutter, set on buttered pans 
close together, bake in hot oven. 

Johnny Cake. 

Mrs. Titus. 
One qt. sour milk, two tablespoonfuls sugar and piece of 
butter size of an egg^ two teaspoons soda. Made about as 
thick as pound cake. 

Crumpets. 

Mrs. J. Moore. 

One pt. sweet milk, one tablespoon of yeast, a very little 
sugar, small piece of butter, make them quite thick, let them 
stand over night ; in the morning add two eggs. Bake in rings 
on a griddle, turn when done on one side. 

Indian Cake. 

Mrs. Allen. 
Half cup of Indian meal, one cup flour, half cup sugar, one 
cup milk, one egg, salt, one teaspoonful of soda. 



BREAD, ETC. 63 



Vienna Pocket-Books. 

Have ready in a bowl a tablespoonful of butter, warm it a 
little to make it soft, stir around with spoon. One qt. un- 
sifted flour, add two heaping teaspoonfuls Royal Baking 
Powder, mix and sift thoroughly together, place in a bowl 
with the butter, milk enough to form a dough of usual stiffness 
according to the flour (about three-quarters of a pt.), half tea- 
spoon of salt, put into milk, then stir in flour with a spoon, 
form into dough, turn out on board, knead suflSciently to make 
smooth. Roll out half an inch thick and cut Math a large 
round cutter. Fold over in shape of a pocket-book, wetting a 
little between the folds to make them keep together. Place on 
buttered pans, do not allow them to touch, wash the top of 
each with milk. Bake immediately in hot oven twenty 
minutes. 

Queen MufTins. 

Mrs. J. Hebert. 

One qt. milk, three-fourths of a cup of yeast, two table- 
spoonfuls white sugar, one tablespoonful of lard or butter, 
one teaspoonful salt, flour to make a good batter, two eggs ; 
let the batter (leaving out the eggs) rise over night. In the 
morning beat the eggs very light, stir into the batter and bake 
in muffin rings twenty minutes in a quich oven. 

Soda Biscuit. 

Mrs. Thomas. 

Three pts. of flour, one pt. milk, one half cup butter rubbed 
into the flour, with salt and two teaspoonfuls cream tartar, 
one of soda, dissolved in the milk. Corn meal can be made in 
the same manner, by taking half the quantity of flour and the 
rest of the corn meal. 



64 RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 



Indian Pone. 

Mrs. Thomas. 

One qt. of corn meal, piece of butter size of an egg, scalded 
with one qt. of boiling milk. When cold add four eggs beaten 
very light, salt, two tablespoonfuls of brewers' yeast. Let it 
stand until light, then bake. 

Soda Biscuit. 

Mks, Silleck. 
One qt. of flour, one tablespoonful butter, same of lard, 
teaspoonful salt, two teaspoonfuls Royal Baking Powder and 
one pt. of milk; cut in finger-lengths and about two inches 
thick. 

Rice Muffins. 

Mks. .Hebeht. 

One cup boiled rice, one pt. flour, two eggs, one qt. milk, 
or enough to make a thin batter, one tablespoonful lard or 
butter, one teaspoonful salt. Beat hard and bake quickly. 

Pop Overs. 

Mks. J. Moore. 
Two cups milk, two cups flour, two eggs, a small piece of 
butter melted and put in the last thing, a little salt. Fill the 
cups half full and bake in a quick oven. Use earthenware 
cups. 

Rice Cakes. 

Mrs. Wilder. 

Half pt. rice boiled and mashed smooth, add one cup of milk, 
three eggs beaten separately and flour to make a stiff batter, 
one spoonful sugar, salt. Bake in rings or gem pans. 



BREAD, ETC. 65 



Rye Pan Cakes. 

Mrs. Robbins. 
One pt. milk, one qt. line rye flour,^two cups wheat flour, 
one cup sugar, two eggs, two large spoonfuls of molasses, 
one teaspoonful of salt, same of soda. Drop from a spoon 
into hot lard. 

Rusk. 

Mrs. Titus. 
Take one cup of unbaked bread, when light thoroughly mix 
in half cup of butter and half cup of sugar and a little soda. 
Make out and bake when very light. 

Rye Cakes. 

Mrs. Wilder. 

Two cups of milk, half cup of sugar, one egg, one teaspoon- 
ful soda, two of cream tartar. Rye or Graham flour, make a 
stiff batter to drop, not roll out, bake in gem pans. 

Oatmeal Cakes. 

Miss L. Parker. 
Two cups of oatmeal, mixed with a pint of sour milk (or 
sweet), one cup of flour, a little salt and one egg. Bake like 
any griddle cakes. 

Currant Buns. 

Mrs. Palmer. 
Mix together half cup of butter with one cup of sugar, stir 
in half cup of milk and half cup of yeast, after stirring very 
thick with flour set to rise over night. In the morning mix 
in two eggs and one cup of currants, with a little lemon essence 
or other flavoring. Work stiff enough with flour to mold into 
buns. When very light bake in a hot oven, and when done 
wash over the top a little white of egg and molasses. 
3 



66 RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 

Graham Puffs, Mohican House, Lake George. 

Miss Sweet. 
One pt, sour milk, one egg, one teaspoonful saleratus, one 
teaspoonful sugar. Quite a thick batter. 

Waffles. 

Mes, Thomas. 
One qt. of milk, three eggs, two-thirds of a cup of lard, a 
pinch of salt, some brewers' yeast, flour to make as thick as 
flannel cakes. Simmer the milk, then take it off the Are and 
add the shortening, let it stand till cool, then pour into the 
flour, beating it all the time. Add the eggs and beat again ; 
lastly the yeast and let rise about four hours. 

Bran Muffins. 

Mrs. Thomas. 
Two cups of sour milk, one cup of sweet milk, three eggs, 
two-thirds of a cup of sugar, one large teaspoonful soda, a 
lump of butter size of a walnut, melt it, bran flour to make it 
thick enough to drop off the spoon. Bake in muflin rings. 

French Rolls. 

Mrs. Ide. 
One qt. of flour, one pt. of yeast, half f)t. of milk, one cup 
of butter and lard, one teaspoonful sugar, a little salt, set to 
sponge, when light make into a loaf (not stiff), when very light 
roll out and cut into cakes. Spread with melted butter and 
make like turn-overs. Bake ten minutes in a hot oven. 

Rye Drop Cakes. 

Mrs. Kendall. 
Two cups rye meal, one egg, one cup yellow Indian meal, 
one tablespoonful molasses, one teaspoonful cream tartar, half 
teaspoonful soda. Mix to the consistency of pound cake, and 
drop a tablespoonful of the mixture in boiling lard. Fry 
brown. 



BREAD, ETC. G7 



Puffs. 

Miss Thukston. 
Olio pt. of new milk, six eggs, half cup butter. Boil the milk, 
leaving out a little with which to wet the flour, make a thin 
batter as for starch. Mix this with the milk, wliile it boils. 
Then add flour, dry, stirring it all the time, until the paste is 
thick enough for a spoon to stand up in while boiling. Be 
careful to have the paste thick, and not burn in the cooking. 
Add the butter, stirring it in; when cool add the eggs oiieat a 
time, beating each well in until the six are mixed in. It should 
then be of the color and consistency of pound cake. If it is 
not add flour until thick enough. Drop a small tablespoonful 
into boiling lard as you would doughnuts, cooking them twice 
as long. Take the puffs out with a skimmer and while hot 
sprinkle freely with cinnamon and sugar. 

Sljraws. 

Mrs. Sij^leck. 

One qt, HecKers' prepared flour, add one pt. of milk, one 
tablespoonful butter, one egg, roll out as for biscuit, cut in 
diamond shape, fry in boiling lard. Eat with butter same as 
biscuit. 

Squash Biscuit. 

Mrs. Haxtun. 

One small bowl of marrow squash cooked, one teacup white 
sugar, three tablespoonfuls of melted butter, three of yeast, 
three of milk, a little salt, and as much flour as can be stirred 
in with a spoon (until it comes off dry from the sides of the 
bowl). Mix all^at night, and in the morning dissolve a small 
teafepoonful of saleratus and put it through the biscuit with your 
fingers, then roll, cut in biscuit and bake, they need a pretty 
hot fire. Add no more flour in the morning except what is 
necessary to roll out . 



68 RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 

Buckwheat Cakes. 

Mrs. Mason. 

One qt. buckwheat flour, half a cup of yeast, one tablespoon- 
ful salt, warm water enough to make a batter not very thick, 
beat it well with a large spoon, and set it to rise about eight 
hours, heat the griddle, and rub it hard with a coarse cloth, 
have a piece of pork about four inches square on a fork, rub the 
griddle with it, and turn the batter on in small cakes while hot. 

Soft Waffles. 

p. 

Three pts. of milk, one coffee cup of yeast, same of butter 
(scant), eight eggs, a little salt, not very stiff with flour, like a 
thin batter. 

Puffet. 

I. 

One qt. of milk, two tablespoonfuls brewers' yeast, same of 
sugar, one of butter. As much flour as you can stir in with a 
spoon. 

Farina Griddle Cakes'. 

Mrs. Merwin. 
Cook the farina as directed for ice pudding; dilute with 
milk to the consistency of a batter, add two eggs well beaten, 
salt to taste. Bake on a hot griddle. 



Marion Harland, in her "Breakfast, Luncheon and Tea," says 
of Heckers' self-raisicg flour: " Heckers' flour I have found 'in- 
valuable in cake making. Indeed, I have never achieved any 
thing short of triumphant success when I have used it." 



PUDDINGS AND SAUCES. 69 



PUDDINGS AND SAUCES. 



Suet Pudding. 

Miss B. Johnes. 
One cup of raisins, one cup currants, one cup suet chopped 
fine, one cup milk or water, one cup bread crumbs soaked, two 
apples chopped fine, one cup molasses, two eggs, two teasjDoon- 
fuls cloves, two tea^oonfuls cinnamon, one of allspice, two of 
soda, four cups sifted flour. Boil three hours. 

Delmonico Pudding. 

Mrs. Pakrott, Keokuk. 
One qt. of milk, three tablespoonfuls corn starch mixed with 
a little of the milk, put into the qt. of milk just before it boils; 
boil three minutes, then stir in the yolks of five eggs beaten 
with six tablespoons of sugar; flavor with lemon or vanilla. 
Place in pudding dish, spread on top the beaten whites of the 
five eggs, put into the oven until it is a delicate brown. Eaten 
cold with sweetened cream. 

Chocolate Pudding. 

Mrs. Sumner. 

One qt. of milk, two cups sugar, six tablespoonfuls of corn 
starch, the yolks of three eggs, quarter lb. of chocolate, one 
tablespoonful of vanilla and a little salt ; mix all the ingredients 
together with a little of the cold milk, scald the rest and pour 
into it the mixture, stirring constantly till it thickens. Use a 
farina kettle. Make a merangue of the whites of the eggs for 
the top. 



70 RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 

Indian Pudding. 

Mrs. Sumner. 
Boil one qt. of milk, stir seven tablespooafuls of corn meal 
into nearly one cup of molasses, pour the boiling milk over it, 
stir thoroughly, add a little salt and one pt. of cold milk. 
Bake in a moderate oven four hours, the last hour with 
decreasing heat. 

Baked Blackberry Pudding. 

Miss F. Silleck. 

One qt. of milk, three eggs, half lb. M suet chopped fine, 
Hed-ers* x^'^'eiJared flour, enough to make a stiff batter, add two 
qts. of berries (flour to prevent sinking). Bake one hour in a 
moderate oven. 

Cottage Pudding. 

Mrs^ Walz. 

With two cups of flour mix two teaspoonfuls baking 
powder, one ^gg^ one tablespoonful of butter, three-quarters of 
a cup of sugar, half cup of milk ; flavor to taste. Bake 
quickly. To be eaten with liquid sauce. 

Batter Pudding. 

Mrs. Reynolds. 

One pt. of milk, four eggs beaten separately, two cups of 
flour, one teaspoonful salt, one pinch of soda. Bake three- 
(^uarters of an hour. (Pinch must mean very little). 

Tapioca Pudding. 

Mrs. Quirk. 
One cup of tapioca dissolved in cold water, six eggs, two qts. 
of milk, sweeten to taste, nutmeg and a little wine. 



PUDDINGS AND SAUCES. 71 



Randall Pudding. 

Miss Ada Jennison. 
Quarter lb. of carrots, same of potatoes, grated raw, 
same of suet and flour, half lb. currants, some citron, a little 
nutmeg and some cinnamon. Boil three hours, serve with 
wine sauce. 

Back-About Pudding. 

Mrs. Wilder. 

To one tumbler tapioca add one tumbler cold water, soak 
over night, in the morning add three more tumblers cold 
water, set on the range, stir, when transparent stir in one 
tumbler sugar and one tumbler currant jelly until dissolved ; 
turn into jelly mold. To be eaten cold with cream and 
sugar. 

English Plum Pudding. 

Mrs. Major. 

One bowl raisins, same of currants, same of suet, one and a 
half bowls bakers' bread crumbs, half lb. citron, one teaspoonful 
cinnamon, same of allspice, ten eggs, one cup of brandy ; make 
into two puddings, boil five hours, be sure to keep covered 
with water and keep boiling. Eat with wine sauce. 

Chocolate Pudding. 

Mrs. Swalm. 

Boil one qt. of milk with one oz. of grated chocolate, 
sweeten and flavor with vanilla or lemon. When thoroughly 
boiled let it cool fifteen minutes, then stir in the yolks of six 
eggs well beaten. Bake in a pudding dish until it hardens 
like custard. Have the whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff 
froth, stir into it six tablespoonf uls of pulverized sugar, spread 
over the top of the pudding, and brown in the oven. It should 
be eaten perfectly cold. 



72 RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 

German Puffs. 

Mrs. Smith. 
Two cups flour, two cups milk, two eggs, salt. Bake in 
cups, quick oven. This quantity will make ten pufiEs. 

Boiled Pudding. 

Mrs. Swalm. 

One cup molasses, same of chopped suet, same of chopped 
raisins, one and a half cups currants, same of milk, one tea- 
spoonful soda in the milk, one teaspoonful salt, flour to make 
it the thickness of cake. Put in pudding boiler and boil 
steadily three hours. Sauce made of butter and sugar to eat 
on it. 

Brown Betty,. 

Mrs. Parrott, Keokuk. 
Put a layer of tart apples into a pudding-dish, sprinkle a 
little sugar and cinnamon over the apples, then add a layer of 
bread-crumbs and some little pieces of butter, proceed with 
layers of apple and bread-crumbs until the dish is full, then 
set in oven and bake about one hour. To be eaten with boiled 
sauce or cream ; if the latter, it is nice cold. 

Apple Slump. 

Mrs. Cone. 
Two qts. of apples, one pt. molasses, one tablespoonful cin- 
namon, same of butter. Make a crust same as for short biscuit, 
line the sides only of a porcelain pot with the crust about half 
an inch thick, quarter the apples without peeling and place 
them in the pot, and pour the molasses over them with the cin- 
namon and butter. Cover with top-crust and let it simmer 
three hours on the back of the range. One half hour before 
serving place in the oven and let brown. 



PUDDINGS AND SAUCES. 73 



Graham Pudding. 

Mrs. Cone. 

One half coffee cup Graham flour, half cup molasses, quarter 
of a cup melted butter, half a cup of sweet milk, one egg, one 
even teaspoon soda, salt, half cup raisins, same of currants, one 
teaspoon cloves, half a teaspoon cinnamon, quarter of a nut- 
meg. Steam two and a half hours. 

English Plum Pudding. 

Mrs. Silleck. 

One loaf of bakers' bread soaked in milk, one lb. of chopped 
suet, five eggs, half teaspoon of cloves, two teaspoonfuls mace, 
three of cinnamon, one small cup of molasses, one teaspoonful 
baking powder dissolved in molasses, little salt, one and a half 
lbs. of raisins, one lb. currants, half lb. citron (roll fruit in a 
little of the flour). Place in pudding form and boil four hours. 
Will keep three months. 

Sponge Pudding. 

Mrs. Swalm. 

Take four eggs and weigh them, take their weight in butter, 
flour and sugar, mix the butter and sugar to a lig^ht froth, add 
the eggs and flour. Boil two hours in a pudding-boiler. Beat 
sugar and butter to a light froth, to that add warm milk, and 
you have a sauce to eat on the pudding when served. Must be 
eaten warm. 

Fried Bread, or " Le Pain-Perdu." 

Mrs. Churchman. 
Sliced bakers' bread dipped in heated, and one or two eggs 
beaten, fry in hot lard. Before serving pour over this sauce : 
Yolk of one egg, one cup of sugar, one tablespoonful butter, 
when mixed pour in three quarters of a cup of boiling water, 
beat the white of the egg and stir in a very little pinch of cin- 
namon. 



74 RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 

Kiss Pudding. 

Miss L. Middleton. 
One qt. milk, three tablespoonfuls corn starch, yolks of four 
eggs, half cup sugar, a little salt. Put part of the milk, salt 
and sugar on the stove and let it boil. Dissolve the corn 
starch in the rest and stir into the milk ; while it is boiling 
add the yolks and then tlour to suit, flavor with vanilla. Frost- 
ing flavored with lemon spread on the top, then put in the oven 
to brown, saving a little to put on top after having taken it 
from the oven, and put cocoanut on the whole. 

Orange Pudding, 

Mrs. L. Smith. 
Take four good-sized oranges, peel, seed and cut into small 
pieces, add a cup of sugar and let it stand. Into one qt. of 
nearly boiling milk stir two tablespoonfuls of corn starch mixed 
with a little water and the yolks of three eggs, when done let 
it cool and then mix with the oranges. Make a frosting of the 
whites of the eggs and half a cup of powdered sugar, spread 
over the pudding and set in the oven to brown. It is excel- 
lent. 

Cracker Pudding. 

Mrs, Packer. 

One qt. milk, four eggs well beaten, four tablespoonfuls 
rolled cracker, two tablespoonfuls melted butter. Bake one 
hour. 

Batter Pudding. 

Mrs. Packer. 

Twelve tablespoonfuls flour, nine eggs, one teaspoon salt, 
one qt. milk. Beat the yolks of the eggs thoroughly, stir in 
the flour and add the milk slowly. Beat the whites of the 
eggs to a stiff froth and add just before putting in the oven. 
Bake an hour. 



PUDDINGS AND SAUCES. 75 

Whilpot. 

Mrs. Cone. 

Scald one qt. milk, take the yolks of four eggs and three 
tablespoonfuls of Indian meal and four tablespoonfuls molasses, 
spoonful salt, beat all together. When thoroughly beaten 
pour in the boiling milk and then boil twenty minutes. Serve 
hot, and just before serving grate in a little nutmeg. 

WhorUeberry Pudding. 

Mrs. Packer. 

One pt. flour, one and a half pts. of whortleberries stirred 
carefully in the flour, half teaspoon salt, one teaspoon soda, 
sifted in dry, one teacup molasses. Mix all carefully together 
so as not to break the berries, and boil in a tin pudding-boiler 
two hours. 

Boiled Suet Pudding. 

]Mrs. Packer. 

One lb. bread crumbs, one lb. sugar, six ozs. suet chopped 
fine, rind and juice of two lemons, three eggs, one cup milk, 
half lb. raisins, half lb. currants. Boil three hours in tin pud- 
ding-boiler. 

Orange Fritters. 

Mrs. F. Taylor. 
Quarter lb. of flour, one large or two small eggs, two oranges 
cut in about five slices each. Put the yolks of the eggs in the 
flour and mix, adding half cup milk (or more if needed), beat 
into a batter, and add half spoonful salt, one teaspoonful melted 
butter. Beat the whites of the eggs to a froth and add to the 
batter just as you are going to fry, mix slowly. Drop the 
oranges into the batter and fry in hot lard. Serve on a napkin 
with powdered sugar. 



76 RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 

Creme Frite. 

Miis. F. Taylor. 

Three eggs to a quarter lb. of sugar and quarter lb. flour. Mix 
them thoroughly, add half pt, milk; put it upon the fire and boil 
five minutes, stirring it all the time ; flavor with a teasjDOonful of 
vanilla. Grease a platter with melted butter, pour your cooked 
batter upon it, and smooth it flat, and put it away to cool. 
AYlienit is firm, cut in any shape you please, and roll it in bread 
or cracker crumbs and egg, and fry in hot lard. 

Peach or Apple Fritters. 

Mrs. Maxwell. 
One qt. flour, two teaspoon fuls yeast powder rubbed dry 
through the flour, a little salt, one egg, water enough to make 
a stiff batter, peaches or apples sliced very thin, fry in very hot 
lard and plenty of it, as the more lard and hotter it is, the 
the lighter and drier will be the fritters, 

Webster Pudding. 

X Miss L. Middleton. 
One cup molasses, one cup milk, one cup of suet, half cnp 
brandy or wine, if you like, one teaspoon saleratus, one tea- 
spoon cloves, one teaspoouful cinnamon, one half nutmeg, two 
cups of currants, one teaspoonful salt. Mix as soft as pound 
cake and steam two hours; serve with wIdc sauce. 

Evening Post Pudding. 

Miss B, Joiines. 
One pt. grated bread crumbs, one qt. milk, two tablespoon- 
fuls sugar, yolks of four eggs, Initter size of an egg, grated 
lemon rind. Top after baking ; four .whites beaten with four 
tablespoonfuls powdered sugar, juice of a lemon. „ Put jelly 
(any kind) between the pudding and meringue. 



PUDDINGS AND SAUCES. 77 

Cocoanut Pudding. 

Mrs, Valentine. 

One grated cocoanut, one pt. milk, three eggs. Sweeten to 
taste. Bake slowly. 

PufT Pudding. 

Mrs, Middleton. 

One tablespoon of flour, one egg^ one tablespoon of milk, one 
teaspoon melted butter. 

Green Corn Pudding. 

Mrs. Middleton. 
Twelve ears of green corn, grate it, one qt. sweet milk, 
quarter lb. of fresh butter, four eggs well beaten, pepper and 
salt to taste, stir well together, bake in a buttered dish. By 
adding quarter lb. of sugar, and eating with sauce makes a nice 
dessert. 

Apple or Fruit Pudding. 

M. L. T. 
Beat to a cream a lump of butter size of an egg, with a cup 
of sugar, the yolks of three eggs, two slices of bread previously 
soaked in milk, then add two apples finely sliced, a little lemon 
rind, when mixed stir in the whites of the eggs lightly. Boil 
in a mold for one hour steady, serve with wine or hard sauce, 
cherries or blackberries may be used instead of apples. 

Scotch Pudding. 

Mrs. Koberts. 

One cup of cream, same of milk, one egg, one teaspoon ful 
saleratus, a little salt, and flour enough to make a stiff batter. 
Fill a pudding dish about two-thirds full of sliced apples (first 
butter the dish), pour the batter over the apples and bake one 
hour. 



78 REUABLE COOK BOOK. 

Poor Man's Pudding. 

Mrs. Corwin. 
One cup suet chopped fine, same of raisins chopped, one 
cup molasses, same of milk, three cups wheat flour, one tea- 
spoonful soda. Boil in pudding mold one and a half hours. 

Neapolitan Pudding. 

Mrs. J. Hebert. 

One large cup fine bread crumbs soaked in milk, three-quarters 
cup of sugar, one lemon, juice and grated rind, six eggs, half 
lb. stale sponge cake, half lb. almond macaroons, half cup of 
jelly or jam, and one small tumbler of sherry wine, half cup of 
milk poured upon the bread crumbs, one tablespoonful melted 
butter. Rub the butter and sugar together, put the beaten 
yolks in next, then the soaked bread crumbs, the lemon juice 
and rind, and beat to a smooth light paste before adding the 
whites. Butter your mold very well and put in the bottom a 
light layer of dry crumbs; upon this one of macaroons laid 
evenly and closely together. Wet these with wine and cover 
with a layer of the mixture, then with slices of sponge oak e 
spread thickly with jelly or jam, next macaroons wet with 
wine, more custard, sponge cake and jam and so on until the 
mold is full, putting a layer of the mixture on top; cover 
closely and steam in an oven three-quarters of an hour, then 
remove the cover to brown the top. Turn out carefully into a 
dish and pour over it a sauce made of currant jelly warm ed 
and beaten up with two tablespoonfuls melted butter and a 
glass of pale sherry. 

Cabinet Pudding, 

Mrs. Mason. 
Make a sheet of cake, cut in halves ; cut up peaches and la y 
between and on top. Serve with sweet sauce. 



PUDDINGS AND SAUCES. 79 

Queen of Puddings. 

Mrs, C. Ide. 
One qt. of new cold milk poured over one pt. of bread 
crumbs. Beat a piece of butter the size of an egg and a cup of 
sugar to a cream ; add the yolks of eggs, flour and grated rind 
of a lemon. Beat this up with the bread and milk and bake 
forty minutes. When done put aside to cool, and when cool 
spread over it fresh fruit or any kind of preserves. (It is delicious 
made with strawberries, but makes a very nice pudding even if 
the fruit be omitted altogether.) Beat the whites of the eggs, 
adding three tablespooufuls of fine sugar and juice of lemon, 
spread over tlie whole and brown slightly in oven. To be 
served cold. 

Bread Pudding. 

Miss Kumbel. 

One pt. bread crumbs, one qt. milk, yolks of four eggs, 
one cup sugar, one tablespoonful butter, grated rind of one 
lemon, let it cool. Meringue — beat up the whites, one cup of 
sugar, the juice of the lemon, spread over the pudding, put in 
the oven a few minutes, and make a wine sauce if you choose 
for it. 

Cider Pudding. 

Mrs. Baker. 
One pt. of cider, one cup molasses, same of chopped suet, 
four cups sifted flour, one teaspoonful salt, same of soda, 
raisins and currants. Boil three hours. 

Carrot Pudding. 

Mrs. Haxtun. 
Quarter lb, of suet chopped fine, same of flour, same of 
grated carrot, same of grated raw potatoes, same of currants, 
one cup of molasses, salt. Boil it three hours and a half. 



80 RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 

Dandy Pudding. 

Miss Kumbel. 

One qt. milk, four eggs, four tablespoonfuls sugar, one table- 
spoonful flour or corn starch ; beat yolks, sugar and flour together. 
Boil milk and throw on the custard, put on the fire, stirring 
constantly until thick as soft custard, then put into dish. 
Beat the whites to a froth with four tablespoonfuls sugar, 
flavor with vanilla, put on custard and place in the oven a few 
minutes. Makes eight cups when baked. 

Quaking Pudding. 

Mrs. Mason. 

Scald one qt. cream, when almost cold add to it four eggs 
well beaten, one and a half spoonfuls of flour, some nutmeg 
and sugar, tie it close in a buttered cloth, boil it one hour and 
turn it out with care lest it break. Sauce — melted butter, 
wine and sugar. 

Fig Pudding. 

Mrs. Haxtun. 
Half lb. of figs, same of flour, two eggs, half lb. suet, a little 
sugar, a little wine. Boj.1 in a tin form four hours. 

Lemon Pudding. 

Miss Carrie. 
Take two large lemons, one lb. of loaf sugar, one pt. of 
cream or one pt. of milk, with three ozs. of butter, nine 
eggs, two tablespoonfuls of flour, grate the yellow rind of one 
lemon, the juice of both, mix the butter and sugar thoroughly 
together, beat the eggs well and add them, then the cream and 
flour, add the juice of the lemons the last thing. Line the 
dish with a rich paste, bake three-quarters of an hour in a 
moderate oven. 



PUDDINGS AND SAUCES. 81 

Ice Pudding. 

Mrs. Merwin. 

Boil in farina boiler three pts. of milk or one qt. of water; 
while boiling sprinkle in slowly one quarter of a lb., or four 
large tablespoonfuls of farina; continue a brisk boiling for 
about half an hour, when done turn into jelly molds, and place 
it in ice or in cold water to stiffen. It thus becomes a beautiful 
ornament for the table, and may be eaten with wine or other 
sauce, pulverized sugar or any condiment more pleasing to the 
taste. This pudding, even when a day or so old, may be 
sliced and fried brown, and forming an excellent dish for 
breakfast. 

Rice Pudding without Eggs. 

Six large tablespoonfuls rice well washed, to one qt. of milk, 
five tablespoonfuls sugar, quarter of a lb. of raisins, stoned ; 
flavor with vanilla. 

Sauces for Puddings. 

S. B, D. 

White of one egg beaten very stiff, then sweeten and flavor 
with wine. 

Wine Sauce. 

Half cup of butter, one cup of sherry wine, two cups sugar. 
Beat the butter and sugar to a cream, add a little water, let it 
come to a boil, take it off the fire and add the wine. 

Pudding Sauce. 

Mrs. Quirk. 
One cup of white sugar, one cup butter, one egg, one wine 
glass of wine or brandy, one nutmeg. When all is well heaten 
add two tablespoonfuls foiling water. Then beat it well and 
it is ready for use. 



82 RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 



Spice Sauce. 

Boil three-quarters of a pt. of water, one cupful of sugar, 
twenty minutes, remove from the fire and add one teaspoonful 
each extract of mace, cloves and ginger. 



Mock Cream Sauce. 

Miss M. Moore. 

One qt. of milk boiled, one cup sugar, two eggs, one tea- 
spoonful vanilla, same of corn starch, stir together and put in 
the milk when it boils. 

Lemon Sauce. 

Miss M. Moore. 
One large cup sugar, nearly half cup butter, one egg, one 
lemon, all the juice, half the rind grated, one teaspoonful nut- 
meg, three tablespooufuls boiling water; cream the butter and 
sugar, beat in the egg and nutmeg, beat hard ten minutes, and 
add a spoonful at a time the boiling water, put in a tin pail and 
set within the uncovered top of the tea kettle, whicli you must 
keep boiling until the steam heats the sauce very hot, but not 
to boiling; stir constantly. 

Farina Jelly Sauce. 

Mrs. Merwin. 
Beat one fresh egg fine, and mix it with two qts. of good 
milk; add half alb. of granulated or other white sugar, one 
teaspoonful of extract of bitter almond, and one teaspoonful ex- 
tract of vanilla, and one tablespoonful alcohol ; stir all together 
and it is fit for immediate use. The alcohol may be omitted and 
any other spirit subtituted, or two teaspoonf uls of either kind of 
flavoring, or other flavoring may be used as taste or fancy may 
prefer. Alcohol prevents rapid souring in warm weather. 



PUDDINGS AND SAUCES. 83 

Another. 

Mks. Avila. 
One cup sugar, one egg beaten to a stiff froth, one small cup 
water. Stir in a teaspoonful flour, let it come to a boil, then 
drop in a piece of butter the size of a walnut. Let it stand until 
about milk warm, then pour into the egg and sugar. Flavor 
as you please. 



Having used Borden's Condensed Milk in puddings and 
sauces over twenty years^ I take much pleasure in recommend- 
ing it. , Mrs. I. U. Silleck. 



84 RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 



PASTRY, PIES, ETC. 



Pie Crust. 

Mrs, Valentine. 
Four heaping cups flour, good half cup of lard, one full 
cup of ice water, a little salt. Rub the shortening in the flour, 
then add ice water and salt. 

Another. 

Mrs. Walz. 

One qt. plain flour, two cups shortening, half lard and half 
butter, little salt, one cup ice w^ater. Rub the shortening 
tlirough the flour dry before wetting it. 

PuiT Paste. 

Mrs. Thomas. 

One and a quarter lbs. of flour, one lb. of washed butter, 
weigh half a lb. of flour out to roll in. Cut your butter into 
four pieces, cut one quarter very fine and mix it with the re- 
mainder of your flour with half a pt. of very cold water. Roll it 
out and put in one-quarter of the butter and a little flour, roll 
again and so on till it is done. Secret of puff paste is keeping 
it very cold. 

Eastern Shore Potato Pie. 

Cousin Vinnie, 

Three lbs. of prepared sweet potato, six eggs, half pt, of 
milk, two cups sugar, half lb. of butter, two tablespoonfuls 
essence of lemon. Bake in bottom crust only. 



PASTRY, PIES, ETC. 85 

Mince Meat for Pies. 

Mrs. Cone. 
One lb. raw meat chopped very fine, Ijalf lb. suet, one lb. 
apples, half lb, raisins, same of currants, quarter lb, of citron, 
one teaspoonful of cinnamon, same of cloves, same of nut- 
meg, same of allspice, one lb, sugar, half cup of molasses, 
one tablespoonful salt, one gill brandy, cider enough to 
moisten. Chop all together excepting the meat, add that last. 

Mince Pies. 

Mrs. Valentine. 
Three gals, cider, three lbs. currants, one lb. citron, one 
lb. orange peel, six lb. raisins, cloves, cinnamon and nutmeg to 
taste, one lb. suet, tw«lve lbs. meat, nearly as much more of 
apples. Boil all together and put it in a stone jar, sprinkle 
brown sugar over it, sweeten to taste. Add brandy when you 
make the pies. 

Cream Pie. 

Miss Ada Maxwell. 

Make a good pie crust, line the pie pans and bake. The 
cream — one pt, milk, half cup flour, yolks of two eggs, juice 
and grated rind of a large lemon, salt and sugar to taste, prepare 
as for corn starch, smooth the flour with a little of the cold milk, 
take the remainder of the milk, add the sugar and salt, place it 
over the fire and when nearly boiling stir in the flour and stir 
continuall}^ until it thickens, then pour it over the yolks of the 
eggs, which have been previously well beaten, flavor with the 
lemon, and pour the mixture on to the pie crust, be sure that it 
is thoroughly cooked so as not to have a raw taste. Beat the 
the whites of the eggs to a very stiff froth, add a tablespoonful 
powdered sugar and a little lemon juice; spread it, over the pie 
with a knife, then set it in a T)ery very hot oven for a minute 
and let it become a delicate brown. The oven must be very 
hot else it will make it tousrh. 



EELIABLE COOK BOOK. 



Cocoanut Pies. 

Mrs. Valentine. 

One qt. milk, four eggs, one large cocoanut, a spoonful of 
flour. 

Cream Pie. 

Mrs. Roberts. 

One pt. of milk, half cup sugar, one heaping tablespoonful 
corn starch, yolks of two eggs, a little salt. Mix the corn 
starch with a little cold milk, adding the sugar, egg and salt ; 
boil the rest of the milk and stir in the igredients while boil- 
ing. Have a single crust baked ready for the cream. For 
frosting beat the whites of two eggs, after beating add two 
tablespoonfuls powdered sugar, spread it on the pie and brown 
it in the oven. * 

Apple Pie. 

Mrs, Cone. 

Peel and slice apples in a baking j^late, cover with a rich 
crust, add a very little water, place in the oven and bake 
until apples are done. Then remove the crust and turn over 
on a clean plate ; mash the apples and season with sugar, but- 
ter and cinnamon and place on the crust again. 

Lemon Clieesecakes. 

Mrs. L. Thomas. 

Boil tender the peel of two large lemons pared as thinly as 
possible, changing the water two or three times. Take out 
the hard pieces and pound very fine. Beat half lb. of blanched 
almonds also, very fine, add one lb. of sugar, the yolks of 
eight eggs, and the whites of four and a lb. of butter, and 
mix all together. Line your tins with puff paste and bake in a 
slow oven. 



PASTRY, PIES, ETC. 87 

Cracker Apple Pie. 

Miss M. Mookb. 
Break in pieces one and a half soda crackers, or one Boston 
cracker, turn into a teacup of cold water, let it stand while 
making the paste. Put it in a pie plate with a little nutmeg, 
add a cup of sugar and juice of a lemon. 

Lemon Pie. 

Mrs. Walz. 

The grated rind and juice of one or two lemons, three eggs 
beaten separately, one and a half cups sugar, two teaspoonfuls, 
flour, two-thirds cup of water. Beat the whites to a stiff froth, 
add three spoonfuls sugar, pour over the pie when baked and 
let it stand three minutes in the oven. 

Another. 

Mrs. Swalm. 
Two lemons, two cups sugar, half cup molasses, half cup 
water, two eggs, two tablespoonfuls flour, piece of butter size 
of an egg. Crust with strips across. 

English Apple Pie. 

J. A. M. 

Half peck greening apples, or sour apples, peeled and quar- 
tered, one pt. of sugar, half pt. cold water, twenty-four whole 
cloves. Line the sides of a deep pudding-dish with pie paste, 
invert a cup with a hole in the bottom, place in the middle of 
the dish, put in some of the apples, sprinkle some of the sugar, 
some of the cloves, then the apples, and so on; when all are in 
put in little pieces of butter over the top, then the water, cover 
the whole with pie-paste. Bake one hour and a half; serve 
hot. 



88 RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 

Lemon Custard Pie. 

Mrs. Thomas. 
The grated rind and juice of one lemon, six tablespoonfnls 
sugar, one cup milk, one tablespoonful flour, yolks of four 
eggs and a little salt. Beat all together well and bake in a 
crust. While this is baking beat the whites to a stiff froth, 
add three tablespoonfuls pulverized sugar and a few drops of 
the lemon juice. When the pie is done, spread this on top in 
a merangue and set it back in the oven to harden and brown 
a little. Makes one pie. 

Nice Cheesecakes. 

Miss Cripps. 

Three small dry sponge cakes soaked in a very little milk. 
Beat till quite smooth, and add three ozs. of butter (melted), 
the rind of a lemon grated, the yolks of two eggs and some 
currants, sugar to taste. Bake in pastry in small tart tins. 

Pumpkin Pie. 

Mrs, Thomas. 
Pare and cut pumpkin in pieces of equal size, add half pt. 
of cold water and boil until perfectly soft. Put it through 
the sieve while hot. To one pie — one teacupful pumpkin, one 
egg^ sugar and ground ginger to taste, sweet milk to give the 
proper consistency. 

Fruit Pies. 

Mrs. Sumner. 
Squeeze a large lemon, boil the outside till tender enough to 
beat to a mash; add to it three large apples chopped, quarter 
lb. of suet, chopped, half lb. currants, quarter lb, sugar. Put 
in the juice of the lemon and candied fruits as for other pies. 
Make a puff paste and bake in patty pans. 



PASTRY, PIES, ETC. 89 

Raisin Pie. 

J. D. 

One cup chopped or stoned raisins, one cup sugar, one cup 
water, two lemons, the juice and grated rind, two yolks of 
eggs. Bake and add merangue as for lemon pie. 

Orange Custard Pie. 

Mrs, Thomas. 

Take one-quarter and one-half quarter of washed butter, the 
same quantity of sugar and beat together to a light cream, four 
eggs beaten very light. Boil the peel of an orange and pound 
it, and add the juice with half a glass of brandy, stir it well. 
Add a tincupful of bread and milk boiled together, beat well. 
Bake in crust. 

Summer Mince Pies. 

Mrs. Mason. 

Four crackers, one cup chopped raisins, one cup hot water, 
same of cider, same of molasses, one and a half cups sugar, two- 
thirds cup of butter, one teaspoonful cloves, same of allspice, 
same of cinnamon, two eggs beaten and stirred in the last 
thing. 

Peach Dumplings. 

Mrs. Silleck. 

Make as much good biscuit dough as you may require, cut in 
pieces as large as an egg^ roll thin, have good juicy peaches 
washed and dried (not pared), lap the dough around them, sew 
in cloth and boil twenty minutes ; the water must be boiling 
when you put them in. 



90 RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 

Potato Pie. 

One pt. mashed potatoes (prepared as for table), one qt. 
milk, one cup butter, two cups sugar, four eggs, nutmeg to 
taste. This will make two pies. 

Cherry Pie. 

Three cupfuls cherries, stemmed, one cupful sugar. Line 
a pie plate with paste, wet the edges, add the cherries, cover 
and bake in steady quick oven for twenty-five minutes. 



CAKES. 91 



CAKES. 



Remarks. 

Making cake accuracy in proportioning the ingredients is in- 
dispensable. It is equally indispensable for the success of the 
cake that it should be baked as soon as prepared. It is useless 
to attempt making it light unless the eggs are perfectly fresh 
and the butter good. To insure success the following rule 
should be strictly adhered to, except lohen directions are given to 
the contrary. Cream the butter and sugar together, beat the 
eggs separately, then beat the yolks in milk, add to butter and 
sugar; sift flour and rub the baking powder through dry (or if 
cream tartar and soda are preferred, mix the former through 
flour, and dissolve the latter in milk), next add flour and bak- 
ing powder, and lastly the whites beaten to a stiff froth, beat 
all the ingredients together thoroughly. Fruit must be well 
dredged with flour before putting into the cake to prevent its 
settling. To blanch almonds, pour boiling water over them 
and rub off the skins. To ascertain if a large cake is perfectly 
done plunge the blade of a knife iato the center ; for a small 
one insert a straw or the whisp of a broom ; if in the least 
moist it should be left in the oven. If convenient to allow 
cakes to cool somewhat before removing from the oven it is 
better, ai* it prevents their falling. Molasses cakes should be 
baked in pans three inches deep. 

Ocean Cake. 

Mrs. Walz. 

Whites of five eggs, half cup butter, two cups powdered 
sugar, one cup milk, three cups flour, one teaspoonful soda, two 
of cream tartar. Flavor to taste. 



92 RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 

Vanity Cake. 

Miss E. Dorscheimer, 
Five eggs one cup sugar, half cup butter, one and a half 
cups flour; scant quarter of a teaspoon of baking powder. 
The jelly — Grate one lemon, two apples, add half cup sugar 
and two eggs. Beat the ingredients together, boil one 
minute, and spread between the layers of the cake. 

Anise-seed CaHe. 

Miss Cripps. 

Take one quarter lb. of fine flour, same quantity of corn- 
starch, not quite half lb. of powdered sugar, five eggs and a 
tablespoonful of well cleaned anise-seeds. Beat the whites of 
the eggs to a froth, add to it the well beaten yolks, then the 
sugar mixed with the anise-seeds, at last flour and corn starch. 
Use white wax for your tins instead of butter, take a teaspoon- 
ful of batter at a time, forming small cakes, and fill your tins, 
leaving a little space between them for raising. Bake in a very 
moderate oven. These cakes are delicious if baked rightly. 

Rich Coffee Cake, 

#Miss Cripps. 
Four cups sifted flour, three eggs, one cup milk, half cup of 
butter, one cup good yeast, and one cup of powdered sugar. Melt 
the butter, add the milk to it, have your flour ready in a bowl, 
put the three eggs into the flour, gradually add the butter and 
milk lukewarm^ and lastly the yeast. Let the batter raise over 
night and early in the morning add the sugar, a small teaspoon- 
ful salt, one cup of currants, same of raisins, the rind of a 
lemon, one teaspoonful essence of bitter almonds and some 
citron cut fine. Put the batter in a well "buttered round cake 
form, cover it over and let it raise again for one hour and a 
quarter. Bake one hour in a moderate oven. This cake keeps 
fresh for two weeks. 



CAKES. 93 

Spice Cake. 

Miss Cripps. 
One lb. of flour, a quarter of a lb. of butter, three eggs, three 
quarters lb. of sugar, one teaspoonful of baking powder, saroe 
of ground cloves, same of ginger, same of cinnamon. Stir the 
butter to a cream, add the eggs, then the sugar. Mix the spices 
and the baking powder with the flour and gradually put it to the 
butter, eggs and sugar. Roll it out on the pastry board, form 
into small cakes and bake immediately. 

Chocolate Cake. 

Miss W. Silleck. 

Three eggs, two cups granulated sugar, one cup milk, half cup 
butter, three cups flour, three teaspoonfuls Royal Baking 
Powder. Beat the yolks in milk, add the butter and sugar 
beaten to a cream, then the flour and baking powder, lastly the 
whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth. The chocolate — One 
and a half lbs. Exposition chocolate {Baher''s sioeet), mix with a 
little hot water and the white of an egg, boil almost once. This 
quantity makes twelve thifi layers ; four to a cake. 

French Loaf. 

Mrs. Sharpe. 
Two cups sugar, half cup of butter, one cup sweet milk, three 
cups flour, three eggs, one teaspoonful soda, two of cream 
tartar. 

Jenny Lind Cake. 

Mrs. Smith, 
Two cups sugar, three-quarters of a cup of butter, two eggs, 
three cups flour, one cup of milk, one teaspoonful cream 
tartar, half teaspoon soda. Take out enough for two cakes, 
and add to the remainder of the cake, half cup raisins, two 
tablespoonfuls molasses, cinnamon, nutmeg, cloves. Make 
three cakes. Put together with jelly. 



94 RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 



Delicate Cake. 

Miss Ckipps. 



The whites of eight eggs well beaten, two cups powdered 
sugar, one half cup of milk, half cup butter, three cups fine 
flour, one teaspoon ful cream tartar, same of soda. Sift the 
cream tartar and soda with the flour, add the eggs the last 
thing. For the icing take three-fourths cup of Baker's choco- 
late grated fine, three-fourths cup of powdered sugar, one table- 
spoonful vanilla, same of milk mixed together. Put this on 
the stove in a kettle of boiling M^ater till thoroughly heated. 
Spread on the cake while warm. 

Measure Pound Cake. 

Mrs. J. Raymond. 

Three cups sugar, two and a half cups butter, eight eggs, 
four cups flour, one teaspoouf ul saleratus. Stir the butter and 
sugar well together, add the eggs and flour well mixed, a little 
citron or mace may improve it. This cake if made light__^is 
very delicate. 

Cream Cake. 

Mrs. Smith. 

Two cups powdered sugar, two-thirds cup of butter, ^four 
eggs, half cup of milk, half teaspoon soda, one teaspoonful 
cream tartar, three cups flour. Bake in layers, when cold 
spread the mixture between them. The tilling — Half pt. 
milk, two small teaspoonfuls corn starch, one egg, 
teaspoonful vanilla, half a cup sugar. Heat the milk 
to boiling, stir in the corn starch wet with a little cold 
milk. Take out a little and mix gradually with beaten egg 
and sugar, return to the rest of the custard and boil, stirring 
constantly until quite thick. Let it cool before you season and 
spread on cake ; flavor the icing with vanilla. 



CAKES. 95 

Delicate Cake. 

Mrs. Chandler. 
Whites of six eggs, half cup of butter, one and a half cups 
sugar, same of flour, half cup of corn starch, same of milk, one 
teaspoonful cream tartar, half teaspoon soda. Flavor with 
lemon or vanilla. 

Cream Cake. 

Miss DORSCHEIMER. 

The cake — Three eggs beaten separately, one cup of 
sugar, one and a half cups flour, two tablespoonfuls 
cold water, two tablespoonfuls baking powder, essence 
to taste. Bake in two pie pans and split while hot. 
The cream — One pt. sweet milk come to a boil, two eggs, 
tvvo tablespoonfuls (small) corn starch, let it boil until thick, 
stir all the time; when nearly done put in a small cup of sugar, 
and a small cup of butter, essence to taste. 

Orange Cake. 

Mrs. J. Raymond. 
Half cup butter, one cup sugar, one and a half cups flour, 
half cup of ^milk, two eggs, two teaspoonfuls Sea Foam. Mix 
butter and sugar to a cream, add the eggs, then the milk, mix 
flour and Sea Foam together, and add it to the other and 
cook in layers. Jelly for the cake — Grate the rinds of two 
oranges and a lemon and add the juice of each. One cup 
sugar, same of water, one and a half tablespoonfuls corn starch. 
Boil the jelly, stirring continually. Get Messina oranges if 
possible. 

Citron Cake. 

Mrs. J. Raymond. 
One lb. butter, one and a quarter lbs. sugar, two lbs. sifted 
flour, two lbs. raisins (pitted), half lb. citron, a wine glass of 
brandy, one teaspoonful saleratus, one pt. sweet milk and 
seven eggs. This makes two large cakes. 



96 RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 

Cream Puffs. 

Mrs. Reynolds. 
Boil one-half lb. butter in one pt. of water, while boiling 
stir in three-quarters lb. of flour, then take it from the fire and 
stir in gradually ten eggs (not beaten), till quite smooth, add 
half teaspoonful soda. To be dropped on the sheets half the 
size you wish them when baked. Bake half hour. The 
cream — Boil one half pt. of milk ; while boiling add four 
eggs well beaten in two cups of sugar and one cup of flour, 
this to be cooked together as boiled custard. Flavor with 
lemon, when cold drop into the forms for cakes. 

Cream Puffs. (Blot.) 

Two oz. of butter in a saucepan, with one and one-half gills 
of cold water. At first boiling throw in four oz, of flour and 
stir fast half a minute or so; then add four eggs, one at a time, 
or five if the eggs are small. Butter a tin, drop with a spoon 
one and a half inches apart, glaze with egg and bake. When 
done, cut — not quite through — and fill with cream. Tlie cream 
—Two tablespoonfuls sugar in a saucepan with one of flour, 
three yolks of eggs, one-half pint of milk. Mix well cold, set 
on the fire, stir constantly five minutes and flavor. 

Chocolate Eclairs. 

Paste same as above for cream cakes, dropped on buttered 
tins lengthwise. When baked and cold cut through one 
side and fill with cream. The cream — One oz. of chocolate, 
melt it, add six spoonfuls sugar, yolks of eight eggs and two 
spoonful flour. Mix well cold, then add six gills of milk, 
place on the fire, stirring it continually till thick, flavor with 
vanilla; add a very little water to the chocolate, add to the 
cream, mix thoroughly. For the top — Grate four oz. of choco- 
late, four spoonfuls cold water, eight oz. sugar, stir on the fire, 
when a little thick dip the top of the cake in. 



CAKES. 97 

Hickory-Nut Cake. 

Mrs. Silleck. 
One lb. butter, same of sugar, same of prepared flour, Ave 
eggs, one gill rose water, one qt. hickory nuts shelled^ one qt. 
English wahiute shelled. 

Cocoanut Cake. 

Mrs. Quirk. 

Six eggs, one lb. of sugar, half lb. butter, three-quarters lb. 
of flour and one cocoanut grated. 

Fruit Cake. 

Mrs. Silleck. 
One lb. butter, one and a quarter lb. sugar, same of flour 
twelve eggs, wine glass of brandy, same of molasses, teaspoon- 
ful Royal Baking Powder dissolved in the molasses, one tea- 
spoonful of cloves, two of mace, four of cinnamon ; four lbs. 
raisins, three lbs. currants, two lbs. citron. Bake three hours 
in a slow oven. 

Rich Molasses Cake. 

Miss Sweet, 
One cup New Orleans molasses, half cup butter, one egg^ one 
teaspoonful soda dissolved in half cup of boiling water, two 
and a half cups of flour. 

Marbled Cake. 

Miss Sweet. 

One cup butter, two cups sugar, three cups flour, four eggs, 
one cup milk, two teaspoon fuls baking powder. When cake 
is mixed take out one cup of batter, stir into it one large 
spoonful grated chocolate wet with milk. Fill pan an inch 
thick with yellow, drop in the dark. A little lemon added to 
the yellow is an improvement. 
4 



98 KELIABLE COOK BOOK. 

Jelly Roll. 

Miss C. Middleton. 
One cup flour (teacup), one cup (scant) of coffee A sugar, 
three eggs, one teaspoonful cream tartar, half teaspoon soda. 
Milk enough to wet the soda and a little salt. Beat the whites 
and yolks together. Spread jelly on as soon as baked and roll 
the cake on a cloth. 

While Sponge Cake. 

Miss C. Middleton. 

Whites of five eggs, one cup of sugar, half a cup of flour, 
one large spoonful more of flour, half teaspoon cream tartar. 
Beat the whites of the eggs to a froth, then stir it in with the 
flour, next add yolks, then mix cream tartar with flour, beat 
lightly and bake in a quick oven. 

Sponge Cake. 

Mrs. Quikk. 

One lemon, one cup sugar, one cup sifted flour, four eggs, 
yolk and sugar well beaten, then add the whites, then the 
lemon, little of the rind last, stir, not heat, put in the flour. 

Crullers. 

Mrs. Quirk. 

Half lb. butter, three-quarters of a lb. of sugar, four eggs, 
one wine glass of brandy, same of milk, one nutmeg, and made 
stiff with flour to roll and cut in shapes. 

New Year's Cake. 

Mi{s. Quirk. 

Three lbs. sugar, two lbs. butter, one qt. cream, one wine 
glass of wine and one of brandy, caraway seeds and a small 
piece of soda ; flour to make up, and stamp them with a print. 



CAKES. 99 

Cake Waffles. 

J. A. M. 

One lb. of butter, same of sugar, one and a quarter lbs. 
of flour, eight eggs, quarter teaspoonful soda, half teaspoon 
cream tartar, half of a grated nutmeg, a little salt. Cream the 
butter, then add the sugar, when well beaten to a cream add 
the yolks of eggs which have been well beaten, then the flour 
with soda and cream tartar sifted into it, the nutmeg and salt 
then the whites of the eggs which have been beaten to a stiff 
froth. Bake in waffle irons on top of the range. 

Spice Cake. 

Mus. Major. 
Two cups sugar, one and a half cups butter, five of flour, one 
of milk, one of molasses, two teaspoonfuls cloves, two of cin- 
namon, two of nutmeg, one of soda, two of cream tartar, two 
cups chopped raisins, same of currants, 

Cocoanut Cake. 

Mrs. Avila. 
Bake pound cake on long tins the thickness of jelly cake, 
spread each one with icing made rather softer than for a loaf, 
strew thickly with grated cocoanut and place one above 
another, four in all, drop in occasionally a spot of icing above 
the cocoanut on all except the top one, to make the cakes 
adhere better. 

Hermits. 

Mrs. Wilder, 
Three eggs, one and a half cups of sugar, one cup of butter, 
same of chopped raisins, same of currants, one teaspoonful 
each of cinnamon, allspice, cloves and soda. Flour enough to 
roll out and cut like cookies. 



100 RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 

Lady Cake. 

Mrs. Avila. 

One and a half cups sugar, half cup of butter, same of milk, 
two cups of flour, whites of six eggs, one teaspoonful cream 
tartar, half teaspoonful soda. 

Jessie Cake. 

Miss J. Crowell. 

Three eggs, one and a half cups powdered sugar, half cup ot 
butter, same of milk, two cups flour, two teaspoonfuls baking 
powder, one te^ispoonful of almond extract or essence of lemor. 

Nameless Cake. 

Mrs. Reynolds. 
One cup sugar, same of molasses, same of butter, same of 
milk, four cups of flour, two eggs, one teaspoonful soda, one 
tablespoonful cloves and cinnamon mixed, one teaspoonful 
saleratus, one lb. of raisins. 

Gold and Silver Cake. 

Whites of three eggs, one cup powdered sugar, half cup of 
butter, two cups flour, half a cup of milk, one teaspoonful 
cream tartar, half teaspoon soda. Flavor with almond. Gold 
with another flavor and yolks. 

Jelly Cakes. 

Mrs. Howard. 

Purchase sugar calces at the baker's, select nice brown ones, 
spread the under sides very lightly with jelly and stick to- 
gether. These are quickly prepared and must not be spread 
until about a half hour before eating, else they will become 
heavy. 



CAKES. 101 

Cocoanut Drops. 

Mrs. QuiiiK. 

One lb. of cocoanut grated, one lb. of flour, the whites 
of three eggs, three tablespoonfuls white sugar, the juice 
and rind of one lemon. 

Hickory-Nut Cake. 

Mrs. Swalm. 
Half cup butter, two cups sugar, three cups sifted flour, four 
€ggs well beaten, one cup milk, teaspoonful of soda in the 
milk, the meats of six qts. of nuts added when ready to bake. 

Sponge Gingerbread. 

Mrs. Swalm. 

"One cup butter, one cup molasses, two cups brown sugar, 
three and a half cups of flour, one cup water, four eggs, one 
teaspoonful soda, two of cream tartar, little salt and cinnamon. 

Coffee Cake. 

Miss J. Crowell. 
One cup of brown sugar, one cup of molasses, half cup e&ch 
of butter and lard, one cup of cold coffee, two eggs, one table- 
spoonful of cinnamon, same of cloves, same of grated nutmeg, 
two teaspoonfuls baking powder, one lb. each of currants 
and raisins. 

Harrison Cake. 

Miss Jennisok. 
One cup of butter, same of sugar, same of milk, half cup 
molasses, three eggs, one small teaspoon of soda, one lb. of 
raisins and flour enough to make as stiff as soft gingerbread, 
all kiuds of spices. 



103 RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 

Kisses. 

Miss W. Silleck. 
Follow directions for boiled icing, malce half the quantity^ 
place in small buttered tins for this purpose, and bake slowly. 

Lemon Cake. 

Miss J. Crowell. 

Five eggs, three cups of sugar, one cup of butter, same of 
milk, four cups of flour, juice and rind of one lemon, one tea- 
spoonful baking powder. 

Crullers. 

Mrs. Wilder. 
Two cups sugar, three eggs, three tablespoonfuls melted lard, 
one and a quarter cups of milk, nutmeg and salt, two teaspoon- 
fuls baking powder, flour to roll out soft, and fry in hot lard. 

Almond Cake. 

Mrs. Howard. 
One lb. butter, same of sugar, same of flour, two lbs. of 
sweet almonds blanched and pounded, half a lb. of desiccated 
cocoanut, the juice and grated rind of one large lemon, ten 
well-beaten eggs and a gill of wine or brandy. 

Watermelon Cake. 

Mrs. Howard, 

Take two cupfuls sugar, one of butter, one of milk, the 
whites of eight eggs, two cupfuls flour, one of corn starch and 
two teaspoonfuls baking powder. Take one-third of the batter 
and mix half a cupful of currants with it, take another third 
and add to it a little cochineal and a lump of alum the size of a 
pea dissolved in a little water. Flavor to taste and arrange in 
your pan as marble cake. 



CAKES. 103 

Lady Fingers. 

Rub half a lb. of butter into a lb. of flour, add half a lb. of 
sugar, grate in the rinds of two lemons and squeeze in the 
juice of one; then add three eggs; make into a roll size of the 
middle finger ; it will spread in the oven to a thin cake ; dip 
outside in chocolate icing. 

Pound Cake. 

Mrs. Reynolds. 
One lb. of butter worked back to a cream, while beating: 
add slowly one lb. of powdered sugar, ten eggs beaten to a 
froth, add gradually half a glass of brandy, one glass of wine 
and one lb. of flour, after which beat all well together for half 
an hour. Bake with an even heat. 

Brown Slone Front Cake. 

Mrs. L. Smith. 

One large cup of sugar, two-thirds of a cup of butter, four 
eggs, leaving out the wliites of two for frosting, two cups of 
flour, two-thirds cup of milk, one cake of German chocolate 
(grated), one tablespoonful vanilla. Mix the chocolate in one 
half of the cake. Bake in separate pans and put together with 
frosting. 

Old Lady Cake. 

Mrs. H. Zaitm. 

One cup butter, one and a half cups sugar, three eggs, three 
cups sifted flour, one cup milk, half teasj^oonful soda, 
one teaspoonful cream tartar. Beat the butter and 
sugar to a cream, then add the rest. Raisins can be put in 
if liked, if so, rub them in tlie flour; spice with cinnamon, just 
before putting it in the oven sprinkle sugar over tlie top. Bake 
in a slow oven. 



104 RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 

Mountain Ice Cake. 

Mrs. Chandler. 
One cup of butter, two cups sugar, half cup sweet milk, three 
cups flour, whites of eight eggs, two teaspoonfuls baking 
powder in the flour. Bake as for jelly cake, in four layers. 
Icing— Whites of four eggs, eight teaspoonfuls sugar to one 
egg, one grated cocoauut. 

Election Cake. 

Mrs. Jackson, Boston. 
Three full cups of dough, one full cup butter, two cups 
sugar, spice to taste, one and a half cups of raisins, stoned and 
chopped, two eggs, quarter teaspoon of saleratus, quarter of a 
cup of molasses. 

Christmas Cakes. 

Mrs. C. L. T. 

Heat three qts, of molasses, one and a quarter lbs. of 
butter, mix well, then add quarter of an oz. of ground cinna- 
mon, half oz. anise-seed, one teaspoouful cloves, same of 
allspice, three of baking soda dissolved in a little rose water, 
stir in by degrees four lbs. of sifted flour free from lumps, six 
ozs. of coarsely cut sweet almonds ; when this mixture becomes 
too solid to be stirred it must be beaten with a wooden spoon 
for one hour, allow it to stand in a cool place for one week, 
then knead in enough flour to roll out as thin as pie paste, cut 
with small fancy pastry tins ; bake a deep brown in greased 
pans in not too hot an oven ; will keep crisp for months in a dry 
warm place in cake drums. 

Hard Gingerbread. 

Mrs. Kendall. 
One cup of butter, two of sugar, three eggs, one teaspoonful 
soda, two of ginger, flour to make a stiff paste. Roll thin and 
bake. 



CAKES. 105 

Aunt Lincoln's Cake. 

Mks. Zahm. 

One qt. of flour, one cup of sugar, half cup of butter, one 
egg, two tablespoonfuls yeast, cinnamou, allspice and cloves; 
mix stiff enough to knead well, when risen knead again, then 
put it into the pans and let it rise again. Bake a little longer 
than bread. When taken out rub over with a little milk and 
molasses or cream. Some like this baked in buns. 

Loaf Cake. 

Mrs. Cone. 
Two lbs. of flour, one and a quarter lbs. sugar, one lb of 
butter, two eggs, half pt. yeast, one lb. raisins, nearly one pt. 
of milk. Spice to taste. 

Plum Cake. 

Mrs. F. Taylor. 

One and a half lbs. of flour, three lbs. of raisins, two lbs. 
cuTrauts, one and a half lbs. sugar (brown), one and a quarter 
lbs. butter, quarter of a lb. of citron, two wine glasses of 
brandy, one teacupful molasses, same of milk, five eggs, two 
nutmegs, half oz. cinnamon, quarter oz, of cloves, one tea- 
spoonful saleratus. Bake in round loaves in oven with heat 
suitable for bread tliree hours. Frost when cold. This cake 
will keep for months and improve by keeping. 

Nut Cake. 

Mrs. Roberts. 

One lb. flour, same of sugar, three-quarters lb. butter, six 
eggs, two teaspoonfuls cream tartar, one teaspoonful soda, half 
cup sweet milk. Mix all the ingredients in the usual way ; 
then stir in a qt. bowl of hickory nuts or English walnuts and 
a coffee cup of raisins. 



lOG RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 

Soft Jumbles. 

Mrs. Hebert. 
One qt. of flour, one teacup of butter, two teacupfuls sugar, 
three eg^s, one teaspoonful soda, lialf cup sweet milk. Roll 
them out in sugar. 

Delicate Cake. 

Mrs. Hebert, 

Seven ozs. of butter stirred to a cream, one bl. sugar stirred 
to a cream. The whites of fourteen eggs beaten ,liits eleven 
ozs. of flour, one teaspoonful baking powder rubbed in the 
flour, quarter teaspoon tartaric acid dissolved in a teaspoon- 
ful of warm water, and put in just before the cake goes into 
the pan. Measure out the flour and add the baking powder, 
putting in the eggs little at a time until all is mixed. Flavor- 
ing — Juice of a lemon. 

Almond Macaroni. 

Scald one lb. of almonds, take off skins and throw into 
cold water until all are done, pound them with two table- 
spoonfuls essence of lemon until a smooth paste, then add equal 
weight of powdered sugar aud whites of six eggs, ]\[ix 
well together with a spoon, dip fingers in cold water, form 
the mixture into small balls, dip fingers in cold water again, 
and pass over the tops, place in cool oven three-quarters of an 
hour. 

Cocoanut Cones. 

Mrs. Hebert. 
One lb. powdered sugar, half grated cocoanut, whites of 
five eggs, whip the eggs as for icing, adding the sugar as 
you go on until it will stand alone, then beat in the cocoanut. 
Mold the mixture with your hands into small cones aud set 
them far enough apart not to touch each other, place upon but. 
tered paper in a baking pan. Bake in a moderate oven. 



CAKES. i07 

Jelly Cake. 

Mrs. Hebert. 
One lb. sugar, same of flour, half lb. butter, six eggs, 
QUO cup milk, half teaspoon soda, one teaspoonful cream 
tartar. 

Spice Cake. 

Miss C. Shirely. 
One cup sugar, third of a cup of butter, one egg, one cup 
of buttermilk, one cup of raisins, one teaspoonful soda, three 
tablespoonfuls molasses, one tablespoonful each of cinnamon, 
allspice and cloves. 

Feather Cake. 

Miss L. Parker. 
One cap of sugar, one tablespoonful butter, one egg, one 
and a half cups milk, same of flour (prepared), or one tea- 
spoonful soda, and half teaspoon cream tartar, in plain flour. 

Lady Cake. 

Mrs. Valentine. 
Two cups sugar, one cup butter, two cups flour, whites of 
eight eggs, ten teaspoonfuls of milk, one teaspoonful essence 
of almonds or the rind of two lemons, and not quite the juice 
of one. Stir the butter and sugar together, then add the milk, 
then flour, lastly the eggs and flavoring. 

Walnut Cake. 

S. B. D. 
One lb. of flour, same of sugar, half lb. butter, five eggs, 
one cup milk, one teaspoonful cloves, two teaspoonfuls brandy, 
one tablespoonful baking powder rubbed into the flour, three 
large cups of walnut meats. 



108 RELIABLi: COOK BOOK. 

Queen Cake. 

Miss Sweet. 

Five Clips flour, three cups sugar, one cup butter, three wine 
gluhscs of milk, five eggs, one tcapoonful soda. 

Jackson Jumbles. 

Miss Sweet. 

Three cups sugar, one cup butter, five cups flour, one tea- 
spoon soda, one cup of cream or milk, two eggs. 

Quaker Cake. 

Miss Sweet. 

Six ozs. of butter, twelve ozs. sugar, one lb. flour, half pt. 
milk, five eggs, two teaspoonfuls baking powder. 

Cream Pufls, excellent. 

S. B. D. 

One pt. water, half lb. butter, three quarters lb. of flour, 
ten eggs. Boil the water and butter together, then stir 
in the flour, let it boil for five minutes, cool thoroughly, then 
stir in the eggs, one at a time without beating. Drop into a 
])an and bake from fifteen to twenty minutes. Center mixture 
— One qt. of milk, two coffeecups of sugar, one of flour, 
four eggs. Boil the milk, beat the sugar and eggs and 
flour together, stir with the milk and boil five minutes, flavor 
to taste, let it cool, cut open your puffs when cool, and put 
in the mixture. This makes forty-six cakes. 

Imperial Cake. 

Mks. Pakrott, 
One lb. butter, one lb. flour, one lb. blanched almonds, 
one lb. raisins, same of citron, one nutmeg, ten eggs, one 
wine glass of brandy. 



CAKES. 109 

Sugar Gingerbread, 

Mrs. Palmer. 

Three eggs, two cups brown sugar, one cup butter, same of 
milk, ground ginger and a littla lemon essence, salt. Mix stiff 
with flour and roll into sheets or cookies. 

Orange Cake. 

Mrs. Hulbert. 

Four cups of powdered sugar, same of flour, one cup of 
water, ten eggs, two teaspoonfuls cream tartar, one teaspoon- 
ful soda, the grated rinds and juice of two oranges. Take out 
the whites of two eggs and put them with the grated rinds and 
juice of two other oranges for icing. Beat the eggs and sugar 
very light, add the water, then the orange rind and juice. 

Snow Cake. 

Mrs. Hulbert. 
One tumbler of flour, one and a half of sugar, one small 
teaspoon of cream tartar, the \vhites of ten eggs. Beat the 
whites very light, sift the flour, sugar and cream tartar to- 
gether and stir gradually to the eggs. Bake in a round pan 
(put paper in the bottom) about three-quarters of an hour. 
About ten minutes after it is baked, frost it with the white of 
an egg and three spoonfuls sugar well beaten, and cover with 
giated cocoanut. 

Custard Cake. 

Mrs. Valentine. 
Two cups sugar, one of butter, one of sweet milk, one of 
cornstarch, two of flour; four eggs, two teaspoonfuls cream 
tartar, one teaspoonful soda, flavor to taste. Make a soft cus- 
tard and spread between the layers when cold. Stir the butter 
and sugar together, dissolve the soda in the milk, add the eggs 
and flour with cream tartar stirred in the flour. 



110 RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 

Lemon Jelly Cake. 

Mrs. Palmer. 

Cake — Half cup butter, one cup sugar, two eggs, two cups 
sifted flour, two small spoons baking powder, water enough 
to make a moderately stiff batter. This makes three layers. 
Filling — Put into a bowl half cup sugar, one egg beaten, juice 
and grated rind of one lemon, small piece of butter. Set 
the bowl in boiling water and stir frequently till the 
mixture is about the thickness of honey, when cold spread 
on the cake. Frost the top layer with white of one egg 
beaten to a stiff frotli^ and nine teaspoonfuls pulverized 
sugar. 

Buns. 

Miss B. Johnes. 
One cup molasses, one of sugar, one of butter, one of water, 
one and a half teaspoonfuls salcratus, two eggs, five cups flour. 
Drop from spoon into pan, one and a half teaspoonfuls cinna- 
mon, same of ginger. 

Molasses Cake. 

Miss L. Middleton. 
Three cups molasses, one of suet or butter (suet is best), one 
of sour milk or boiling water, six of flour, two tablespoonfuls 
ginger, two teaspoonfuls soda. Beat well. This will make 
three tins. 

Dried Apple Cake. 

Mrs. Royce. 

Three cups dried apples soaked all night in cold water, chop, 
put on stove with three cups molasses, boil until soft, then 
beat three eggs, one cup butter, three of flour, stir in molasses 
when cool, one teaspoonful soda, some salt and spice. 



CAKES. Ill 

Lemon Cake. 

Miss Oakley. 
One and a half cups sugar, butter size of an egg, two eggs, 
yolk of another, one cup milk, two cups flour, two teaspoon- 
fuls baking powder, rind of one lemon. Bake in jelly pans. 
Icing — One cup sugar, juice of a lemon, white of one egg. 

Doughnuts. 

Mrs. Thomas, 

One qt. milk, one lb. sugar, half lb, lard, five eggs, one 
teaspoonful soda, one pt. potato yeast. Mix all the ingre- 
dients together in a sponge in the evening and let it rise over 
night. In the morning knead it up and let it rise again. 
Then roll it into thick sheets, cut into strips with a jagging iron, 
twist them up and let them lie on a cloth well sprinkled with 
flour to rise again. Fry in hot lard and sprinkle with hot 
pulverized sugar. 

Summer Pound Cake. 

Mrs. Thomas, 

One lb. sugar, half lb. butter, one lb. flour, five eggs, yolks 
and whites beaten separately, one teacup of milk, one tea- 
spoonful cream tartar, one and a half teaspoonfuls soda, nut- 
megs, currants or raisins may be added, or it may be baked for 
jelly cake. 

The Alphislera, or Variety. 

Mrs. Thomas, 

One lb. flour, half lb. sifted white sugar, four fresh eggs well 
beaten together, work it well into a paste, roll it out very thin, 
divide it into squares, cut it into strips and fry in hot lard of a 
delicate brown. The more the strips are curled and twisted 
the better, they should look like bunches of ribbons. Powder 
them over witli white sugar. 



112 RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 



Ginger Snaps. 

Mrs. Thomas. 
One teacup melted butter, two cups New Orleans molasses, 
three teaspoonfuls soda. Put the soda and molasses into the 
butter, add two tablespoonfuls ginger and flour to make a stiff 
paste. Roll thin and bake quickly. 

Kisses. 

Mrs. Thomas. 
Stir together ten ozs, of loaf sugar, six ozs. of butter, spice to 
taste, a little sour cream and one and a quarter lbs. of flour. 
Roll very thin, cut out and bake, one teaspoonful soda dis- 
solved in the sour cream. These are delicious. 

Camp Meeting Cake. 

Mrs. Thomas. 

One pt. molasses, half pt. sour milk, half cup of li^rd or 
butter, one egg, one'tablespoonful saleratus, spice to taste, 
flour to make a stiff batter. Bake in shells of pie crust. 

Jackson Cake. 

Mrs. Thomas. 
Eight eggs, weight of eggs in sugar, weight of four in Ijutter, 
weight of six in flour. Beat the butter and sugar to a cream, 
then add one egg nt a time and beat thoroughly with the hand 
until all are in and it is very light. No flavoring. 

Corn Starch Cakes. 

Mrs. Kimball. 

Half cup sugar, same of flour, quarter cup of butter, same of 
milk, one-eighth cup corn starch, one egg^ three-quarters tea- 
spoon of baking powder. This quantity will make eight small 
cakes. They will not keep long. 



CAKES. 113 

Cinnamon Bun. 

Mrs. Thomas. 
One cup mashed potatoes, one cup of the water in which they 
were boiled, two cups sugar, one cup butter and lard mixed, 
one teaspoonful salt, one cup potato yeast, one egg, flour to 
make a dough. At night set the sponge thus — one cup of 
mashed potato, one cup of the water, one cup of sugar, one 
cup of yeast (no flour). In the morning add the other cup of 
sugar (brown), one cup of butter and lard, one teaspoonful 
salt, one egg and flour to make a dough ; when perfectly light 
cut slices off large enough to cover pie plates, by rolling with 
the roiling pin to the proper size without cutting around the 
"edges. They should be less than an inch thick. Let them rise 
very light, then wash them well with melted butter and 
sprinkle thickly with sugar, cinnamon, and a little flour 
rubbed together. Bake in a moderate oven about twenty 
minutes. These are delicious for tea or luncheon, cold or fresh. 

1, 2, 3, 4 Cake. 

Miss Parker. 

One cup butter (scant), two cups sugar, three cups prepared 
flour, four eggs. 

Cream Sponge Cake. 

Mrs. Ide. 

Three-quarters of a lb, of white sugar, three tablespoonfuls 
water, boil together; seven eggs, two whites left out for icing 
and one yolk for custard. Beat whites and yolks separately, 
then together, then pour the boiling sugar over the eggs, beat- 
ing all the time; beat this till cool, then add the juice of one 
lemon; stir in slowly half lb. of sifted flour. Cream to go 
between the layers — One tumbler milk, one tablespoonful corn 
starch, yolk of one egg, two tablespoonfuls sugar, flavor with 
vanilla. 



114 RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 

Albany Cakes. 

Mrs. Ide. 

One and a lialf lbs. flour, one lb. sugar, half lb. of butter, or 
less, two tablespoonf uls rose water, one teaspoonful saleratus in 
a cup of milk. Bake like jumbles. 

Cinnamon Wafers. 

Mrs. MlDDLETON. 

One lb. sugar, half lb. butter, three eggs, one cup milk, one 
teaspoonful saleratus. 

Chocolate Cakes. 

Beat the whites of two eggs with a^quarter of a lb. of pounded 
sugar iuto a frothy cream, add the juice of half a lemon and 
six ozs. of finely grated chocolate. Drop this mixture m spoon- 
fuls on a flat tin, and bake them slowly. 

Strawberry Short Cake. 

Miss Gr. Hawkins. 

Four eggs, reserve the whites of two for meringue, one and 
a half cups sugar, one cup milk, pt. prepared flour. Make in 
two layers like jelly cake, only thicker, leave the last one. in the 
pan after it is cooked, then put in your strawberries well 
mixed with sugar, put on the other -layer, then the meringues, 
the whites of eggs and one cup of sugar, place in oven and 
brown for a few moments. 

Black Cake. 

Miss Thayer. 
One lb. each of butter, sugar and flour, one cup molasses, 
ten eggs, one lb. citron, two lbs. currants, three lbs. raisins 
(stoned), one lb. almonds (broken small), one teaspoonful 
cloves, two of cinnamon, one nutmeg (grated), half tumbler 
brandy. Bake four hours. 



CAKES. 115 

Fancy Cakes. 

Miss Ducker. 

White part— Half cup of butter, two and a half cups sugar, 
same of flour, half cup milk, whites of eight eggs, flavor this 
with almond. Yellow part and brown — One cup butter, two 
cups sugar, one cup milk, three and a half cups flour, yolks of 
eight eggs. To half of this mixture add three-quarters of a 
cup of Baker's chocolate. Red part — Half a cup butter, one 
cup red sugar, half cup milk, two cups flour (prepared flour 
use),, whites of four eggs. Put in a pan alternate spoonfuls. 

Leopard Cake. 

Miss Ducker. 

Half lb. powdered sugar, half lb. butter, the whites of eight 
eggs, half lb. flour. Dark part — Same quantity of butter, 
brown sugar and flour with the yolks of eight eggs, half lb. 
currants, four ozs. raisins stoned and chopped, one teaspoonful 
of cinnamon, same of cloves. Bake in alternate spoonfuls. 

La Africaine. 

Miss Ducker. 
One cup sugar, one and a half cups flour, one tablespoonful 
milk, three eggs. Split the above and put this inside : Two 
and a half cups scalded milk, one cup of sugar, two tablespoon- 
fuls corn starch, two eggs, piece of butter; flavor with vanilla. 
Cover top with chocolate icing. 

Soft Waffles. 

Mrs. Haxtun. 

One qt. flour, one teaspoonful salt, one qt. milk, one 
tablespoonful melted butter, three tablespoonfuls yeast ; when 
raised add three eggs. 



116 RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 

Fig Cake. 

Mrs. Mason. 

Ono and a half cups sugar, two-thirds cup butter, whites of 
three eggs, one cup milk, three cups flour, one teaspoonful 
cream tartar, half teaspoon of soda; di^iide the mixture, and 
to one pt. add one tablespoonful molasses, all kinds of spices, 
one lb. flgs cut up very tine. 

While Fruil Cake. 

Mrs. Mason. 

Make up batter for a white or silver cake, strew llour and 
stir into it two grated cocoanuts, two lbs. of almonds blanched 
and cut up, and one lb. citron cut up in small pieces. 

Almond Sand Cakes. 

Mrs. Haxtun. 

Ten ozs. butter, twelve ozs. sugar, yolks of two eggs, the white 
of one, a little cinnamon, one lb. flour, stir together and roll 
out like cookies, put blanched almonds on top, spread the 
other white over with a feather, then strew sugar mixed with 
cinnamon on top and bake. Delicious. 

Sponge Cake. 

Miss W. Silleck. 

Five eggs, the weight of eggs in sugar, the weight of half 
the eggs in flour, beat the yolks and whites separately. Beat 
the yolks and sugar together till creamy, then the whites, 
when very light add flour, one teaspoonful (scant) of Royal 
Baking Powder mixed in the flour; do not Je^ti after adding 
flour, mix gently. Bake in a very moderate oven. 



CAKES. 117 

Molasses Cake. 

Mrs. Baker. 

One cup of butter, two of molasses, one of water, one tea- 
spoonful salt, same of ginger, one tablespoonful soda. 

Snow Cake. 

Mrs. Peet. 

One and a half tumblers of granulated sugar, whites of ten 
eggs, one tumbler of flour, one teaspoonful cream tartar. Beat 
the whites to a stiff froth, sift the sugar in slowly, flour the 
same, cream tartar in the flour. Flavor with lemon, add a 
little salt. 

Strawberry Shorl Cake. 

Mrs. Jarman. 
Three tablespoonfuls melted butter, one cup sugar, one cup 
milk, yolks of two eggs, one pt. of flour, two teaspc-onfuls 
cream of tartar and one of soda; when baked beat the whites 
to a froth, put on top of cake and place in oven to brown 
slightly. 



118 RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 



PICKLES AND CATSUPS. 



Pickles. 

Miss Moffat. 
Make the brine of boiling water and salt sufficiently strong 
to bear up an egg, while hot pour over the pickles. Leave 
this on them a day and night, dry them on a waiter. Take a 
gal. of vinegar, one qt, of water, one oz. cloves, one of all- 
spice, two roots of ginger, one oz. mustard seed. Let all this 
come to a boil, then add the pickles and let come to a second 
boil. 

German Pickles. 

Mrs. Wilder. 
Two hundred and fifty gherkins, one oz. allspice, half oz. 
cloves, one oz. mustard seed, one bunch of dill, one oz. cori- 
ander seed, three or four garlics, fifteen cents' worth bay leaves, 
six qts. cider vinegar, one bunch red peppers. Pour the brine 
boiling hot over the gherkins and let stand twenty-four hours. 
Then heat the vinegar with the spices and pour on pickles after 
wiping them out of the brine. 

To Pickle Onions. 

Peel and boil them in milk and water a few minutes, put 
cloves, spice, pepper and salt into your vinegar, boil them in 
brass, turn it on your onions and cover them tight. 

To Pickle CauUnowers. 

Mrs. Middleton. 

Scald a small bunch in salt and water, put in a jar and cover 
with vinegar. 



PICKLES AND CATSUPS. 119 



Cucumber Pickles (never fails). 

Miss Maxwell. 
For one hundred cucumbers (small ones), take one pt. of 
salt and scald it in enougli water to cover the cucumbers and 
let it stand twenty-four hours, tlien take from this brine, 
wiping each cucumber dry. Then take two-thirds vinegar and 
one-third water, scald it and pour over the cucumbers, let them 
stand ten days or two weeks, drain it all off and throw it away, 
as it has drawn out all the slime from them. Put on a fresh 
supply of clear vinegar which has been spiced, and have it 
scalding hot, add a piece of alum the size of a peach pit to 
make the pickles crisp. These will keep (as Marion Harland 
says, under lock and key) for any length of time. 

To Pickle Peaches, Plums and Pears. 

Mrs. F. Taylor. 

Seven lbs. of fruit, three lbs. sugar, one pt. water, 
one qt. vinegar, one oz, cloves, one oz, cinnamon. Boil 
these ingredients, and pour over the fruit four mornings in 
succession, and the last morning boil the fruit until tender. 
Peaches and pears are always nicer for having the skin 
removed. 

Peach Mangoes. 

Miss Sweet, 

Procure large, white, free stone peaches, rub them with 
coarse towel, and remove the stones. Have prepared grated 
horse-radish, mustard seed, black and white (whole) pepper. 
Fill the peaches and tie the halves together with stout string. 
Put them in a stone jar, pour the liquor over them, cover 
lightly with flannel. Liquor — One lb. light brown sugar, one 
pt. vinegar, and a little stick cinnamon. Let it come to a 
boil; stand ten minutes before pouring over the peaches. To 
one pk. of peaches about two qts. vinegar, four lbs. sugar, 
two ozs. cinnamon. 



120 RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 

Tomato Catsup. 

Mrs. Swalm. 

One bush, tomatoes, half gal, vinegar, one pt. salt, two 
ozs, black pepper, two ozs. ground cloves, two of all- 
spice. Wash, boil and mash tomatoes, then pass through a 
sieve, being careful to keep the skins and seeds in the sieve. 
To the liquor that passes through add the vinegar and other 
ingredients. Evaporate it half away ; then bottle. 

Tomato Catsup, No. 2. 

Bruise the tomatoes with the skins on, and boil them two 
hours. Strain through a colander, measure them, and to each 
gal. add four tablespoonfuls salt, four of whole cloves, four 
of allspice, two of cinnamon, two of ground pepper, and 
one half teaspoon of ground mustard mixed with some 
of the catsup, and put in just before it is done, and add 
half a cup of vinegar scalded in, at the last. Boil the 
whole steadily ten hours, or until it is of the proper con- 
sistence ; you can try it by cooking a little in a saucer. When 
done strain out the spices tiirough colander, and bottle tightly. 
This will keep for any length of time. 

Pickle Sauce. 

Mrs. Ide. 
One lb. of mustard, one oz. of turmeric (ground), one 
and a half ozs. allspice, one and a half ozs. whole pep- 
per, one gal. vinegar, one qt. kept out to mix mustard 
and turmeric. The spice boiled in the vinegar must be tied in 
a thin cloth. The mustard and turmeric must be mixed smooth 
before adding to the rest of the vinegar. Then boil all to- 
gether, stirring constantly to prevent settling. Add celery 
seed. This sauce is the perfect counterpart (if properly made) 
of the sauce resembling Crosse and Blackwell's Pickles, both 
in consistency and taste. 



PICKLES AND CATSUPS. 121 



Pickled Tomatoes. 

Mrs. Middleton. 

One pk. of green tomatoes, slice tliem, reject end pieces, 
sprinkle freely with salt, let stand one day; add two ozs. 
of mustard seed, one of cloves, one oz, allspice, one of cin- 
namon bark, put all together, cover with vinegar and simmer 
awhile. 

Chow Chow. 

]\[rs. Doubleuay. 

One half pk. green tomatoes, fifteen large onions, two large 
heads cabbage, twenty-five green cucumbers, one half lb. wJiite 
mustard seed, one ounce celery seed, one half teacup ground 
black pepper, same of turmeric, same of cinnamon, one qt. 
small white silver onions (whole). Cut the large onions, 
cucumbers, tomatoes and cabbages into small pieces and pack 
down in salt over night. Drain off next morning and put the 
mixture to soak two days in vinegar and water ; then drain and 
mix in the spices. Scald one and a half galls, vinegar with 
three and a half lbs. brown sugar and pour over the mixture, 
while hot. Do this for three successive mornings, using the 
same vinegar each time. On the third day mix one lb. of 
English mustard with one half pt. salad oil and stir it well 
through the whole. Put it in jars and close tightly. 

Piccalilli. 

Miss Ducker. 
One gal. fine chopped green tomatoes, four onions, mix 
the onions with tomatoes, and add one cup of salt, let this 
stand one night, in the morning squeeze them in a cloth dry as 
possible, then add one tablespoonful of ground pepper, same of 
cloves, same of allspice; half a pt. of white mustard seed, 
four teaspoonf uls ground mustard, six green peppers (not large) 
chopped fine, mix well, put in a pan with good vinegar to wet 
it nicely. 



122 RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 

Cucumber Catsup. 

Mrs. Haxtun. 
To three large cucumbers peeled and grated put one onion 
chopped very fine, one pt. of vinegar seasoned with horse- 
radish, pepper and salt. Shake it up and bottle tight until 
you wish to use it. 

Walnut Catsup. 

Mrs. Haxtun. 

Forty walnuts, one gal. of vinegar, two spoonfuls allspice, 
same of pepper, ninety cloves, two spoonfuls salt, one nutmeg, 
two spoonfuls whole pepper and same of horse-radish. Boil 
all fifteen minutes. 

Canteiope Pickles. 

Miss G. Hawkins. 

Take fine ripe cantelopes, pare and quarter them, cover with 
viuegar, let them stand twenty-four hours ; then measure the 
vinegar, leaving out one qt., add three lb. of brown 
sugar, cloves, cinnamon and mace to taste, put vinegar and 
spices on the fire, when it boils up drop in the fruit. Cook 
from twenty to twenty-five minutes. 

Tomato Condiment. 

' Miss Hawkins. 

Eight lbs. ripe tomatoes peeled, four lbs. brown sugar, put 
them in a kettle, stir and boil to the consistency of molasses. 
It will take from four to six hours to boil it. One qt. of cider 
vinegar, four teaspoonfuls mace and nutmeg, two lemons. 
Boil five or ten minutes, then put in jars. 



SPICED FRUITS.* 123 



SPICED FRUITS. 



Spiced Currants. 

Mrs. Titus. 
Ten lbs. currants, eight lbs. sugar, powdered cloves and 
cinnamon to suit the taste, half cup cider vinegar. Boil an 
hour over a quick fire. Blackberries, raspberries and cherries 
are very good prepared in this way. 

Spiced Plums. 

Miss Sweet. 

One pt, vinegar, three lbs. sugar, seven lbs. plums, one table- 
Bpoon cloves, same of allspice. 

Pickled Peaches. 

Mrs. Chandler. 

Beven lbs. sugar, ten lbs. of peaches, one qt. of vinegar; all 
kinds of spices. Pare peaches, put sugar and vinegar with 
spices, and just enough peaches to cover till cooked. Boil 
syiup until tliick. 

Pickled Peaches. 

Mrs, Wilder. 

To seven lbs. peaches, three and a half lbs. white sugar, one 
pt. best vinegar, put vinegar and sugar in the kettle, when hot 
put in peaches and cook soft, stick three or four cloves in each 
peach. Plums in the same way. 



124 RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 

Sweet Pickles, 
p. 

Four lbs. sugar, seven lbs. of fruit, one qt. of vioegar, use 
cinnamon, mace and cloves to taste. Make syrup of sugar and 
vinegar, with spice (whole), scald for three mornings and 
pour it over the fruit, and then put them in jars and cork up 
tightly and they are ready for use. 

Spiced Cherries. 

Take half a lb. of sugar to two qts. of cherries; boil vinegar, 
sugar, mace, allspice and cinnamon tog:jther, let it cool, then 
pour it over the cherries. 



PRESERVES AND JELLIES. 135 



PRESERVES AND JELLIES. 



Jelly. 

Mrs. Reynolds. 
To a package of Cox's gelatine add one pt. cold water anrl 
the juice of three lemons, let it stand one hour, then add two 
pts. of boiling water, one pt. of wine, from one and a lialf to 
two lbs. of sugar. Strain and pour into moids. 

Crab Apple Jelly. 

Stem the desired quantity of crab apples, put in kettle 
and barely cover with cold water, let boil until quite tender, 
after which strain through a bag, and to every pt. of the juice 
add one lb. of sugar, let it boil twenty minutes. Pour into 
tumblers after having first rinsed them with cold water. 

Wine Jelly. 

Mrs. Packer. 

Put two ozs. of gelatine into a pt. of cold water witli a doz. 
cloves and the rind of one lemon cut thin, let it stand half an 
hour, then add onept. of wine, one pt, of boiling water, juice of 
tliree lemons, one and a half lbs. sugar; stir until thoroughly 
dissolved. Strain through a flannel bag into molds. 

Currant and Raspberry Jam. 

To every lb. of fruit add three-quarters of a lb. of sugar, 
boil about two hours, letting the currants boil half hour before 
adding the raspberries. 



126 RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 

Orange Marmalade. 

For this the Sicily or any sour oranges should be used. Peel 
the oranges very thin, and soak the peels twenty-four hours 
in salt and water (salt enough to taste quite salt). The next 
morning boil the peels until tender in fresh water, changing the 
water once or twice. Peel the oranges closely, throwing away 
the white skin, cut up the oranges into very small pieces, 
taking out the seeds. Cut the peels in small narrow strips. 
Weigh peel, oranges and juice, to every lb. allow one lb, or 
a little less of granulated sugar. Boil twenty minutes. 

Orange Jelly. 

Mrs. Chandler. 

Soak in about a pt. of cold water one oz. of gelatine until 
soft, add the juice of six or eight sour oranges and the peel of 
four taken off very thin, and juice of one lemon, one lb. of 
sugar (or less if you like it quite sour), one qt. boiling 
water, and stir until the gelatine and sugar are dissolved, 
strain through muslin. Will make three molds. 

Warmalade. 

One pk. of quinces and two pks. of apples, pare and stew 
separately, take one lb. of sugar to a lb. of fruit, mix well and 
cook for one hour, stirring constantly. 

Peach Jam. 

-Mrs. J. C. Smith. 

Take ripe fine-flavored peaches, pare and cut them up, add 
one lb. of peaches to one lb. of sugar, or measure equally in a 
bowl, let the mixture stand over night and in the morning 
simmer it over a slow fire two hours or more until it is quite 
thick. Crack the peach stones, take out the meats, pour 
boiling water over them, rub off the skin, chop them fine, 
stir them in just before the jam is done. 



PRESERVES AND JELLIES. 127 

Lemon Jelly. 

Mrs. Swalm. 

To one package of Gooi}er\ gelatine add onept. of cold water, 
let it soak two hours, to that add a qt. and a pt. of hoiling 
water, two lbs. of sugar, the juice of four lemons. Strain 
through a coarse towel into jelly molds and set away to cool. 

Cherry Sweetmeats. 

A. W. 

Take fresh, sour, bright red cherries, stone tlieni and keep 
them as whole and perfect as possible, weigh them, and to 
every lb. of cherries allow one lb. of the very best white 
crushed sugar, make the syrup with just enough water to 
dissolve the sugar. When it has boiled clear put in the cher- 
ries an<l boil three minutes, then take all up, spread on large 
platter, syrup and cherries, and put in the sun for three days, 
or until the syrup is thick, take in each day before the dew 
falls, tlien put in jars for use. 

Lemon Butter for Tarts. 

Miss Sweet. 
One lb. pulverized white sugar, whites of six eggs, yolks of 
two, three lemons, including grated rind and juice. Cook 
twenty minutes over a slow fire, stirring all the time. 

Gelatine Apples. 

Miss Sweet. 
Peel and core apples, cut in halves, put in a kettle with one 
pt. water, sugar to taste, sliced lemon and green ginger, a lit- 
tle whole mace, boil tender. Then remove apples; put in the 
syrup one tablespoonful gelatine, boil five minutes, pour over 
apples. 



128 RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 



Fruit Jelly, ' 

Mrs. Silleck. 
Have ready jelly prepared the same as fir^t recipe for jelly, 
wet a mold with cold water, pour in a little jcUj^, next, on top 
of this, place either a bunch of grapes or bunches of currants, 
after which fill your mold ^\ ith remainder of the jelly. When 
turned out the fruit forms a pretty contrast to the jelly. 

Goffee Jelly. 

Miss C. Middleton. 
Four tablespoonfuls ground coffee to one qt. of boiling- 
water, let it boil w^ell (full ten minutes) ; enough water to 
cover half a box of Cox's gelatine, pour it over the gelatine and 
add one coffee cup of sugar ; put in an egg-shell to clear the 
coffee, -strain through a cloth into a mold ; cream sauce flavored 
with vanilla. Use Borden's Condensed Milk in sauce. 

To Make a Hen's Nesl. 

Miss W. Silleck. 
Three large eggs, boil hard, take off shells, but do not cut 
them. Pare the yellow rind from six lemons, boil them in 
water till tender, then cut them in thin strips to resemble straw 
and preserve them with sugar. Fill a glass dish (a small and 
deep one) half full of nice jelly; when it is set put the strips of 
lemon on iu form of a nest and lay the eggs in it. 

Ambrosia. 

Mrs. Meriiiam. 
Have ready a grated cocoanut and some oranges peeled and 
sliced. Put a layer of orange in your dish, strew sugar over it, 
then a layer of cocoanut, then orange and sprinkle sugar, and so 
on till the dish is full, having cocoanut for the last layer. Pre- 
pare it two hours l)efore you wish to use it. Pineapple can be 
substituted for orange. 



PRESERVES AND JELLIES. 129 



Brandy Peaches. 

Make a lye sufficiently strong to bear an egg, let the peaches 
scald in this a few seconds only, then put them into cold 
water for a few moments, rub off the skin with a towel. Make 
a weak syrup, weigh the peaches and boil them a few at a 
time in this syrup, until they soften a little, but not until they 
are entirely cooked ; then put them on dishes to drain, while 
you add to the syrup sugar in the proportion of half a lb. to 
every lb. of fruit. Add only sufficient water to make the 
syrup, and boil a few peaches at a time in it. When you can 
pierce each peach to the pit with a broom splinter, take them 
out and put them into the jars. After all are done boil the 
syrup a few minutes and pour it out to cool a little; wlien it is 
cool enough have ready a bowl or pitcher in which to mix the 
syrup and brandy, allow half a pt. of brandy (white) to every 
lb, of fruit, mix thoroughly and taste the syrup ; if not strong- 
enough of the brandy to suit your taste add more. Pour the 
syrup over the peaches and close the jars tightly. Do not mix 
any more syrup and brandy than you have use for. In making 
the syrup be careful not to use too much water, as the juice of 
the peaches and the brandy thins it. 

Strengthening Jelly. 

Two ozs. of white sugar-candy, one oz. of isinglass, one oz. 
of gum arabic. Put these ingredients into a basin, cover them 
with cold water and let it stand all night ; the next morning 
put it on the fire and let it simmer until all is dissolved. Then 
add one pt. of port wine and boil it all together half an hour, 
strain it and take a tablespoonful three times a day. 

To Can Peaches. 

Mrs. Ward. 
Pare and halve the fruit ; fill cans ; dissolve quarter of a lb. 
of sugar in enough water to fill cans. Pour over fruit. Set 
cans in a large pan of cold water ; put in oven and bring to a 
boil ; if the fruit shrinks take one of the cans to fill the others. 
Cherries and all kinds of berries may be done in the same 
way. 



130 RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 



Cherry Jam. 

Mrs. Haxtun. 
Three lbs. of stoned cherries, add one lb. sugar, let them 
stand three or four hours, then boil them about one hour, take 
them out and let your syrup boil till it is very rich, then put 
your cherries in and boil them down. 

Currant Jelly. 

Mrs. Haxtun. 
Wash the currants and let them simmer in a preserving 
Kettle until the juice is entirely extracted, then strain it. Take 
oue lb. sugar to one pt. juice. Put the juice after straining 
into the kettle and let it hoilfive minutes^ remove the scum, pour 
it on the sugar, as soon as the sugar is dissolved put the jelly in 
cups. Let it remain unsealed three days. 

Chipped Pears. 

Mrs. Lea V ITT. 
Eight lbs. of pears sliced thin, eight lbs. of sugar, juice of 
three good sized lemons, and tlie peel cut iu small pieces, 
one pt. cold water, quarter lb. green ginger parboiled first, as 
it is too pungent. Boil till the fruit is clear. 

Raspberry Jelly. 

Mrs. Thomas. 

Dissolve two ozs. of tartaric acid in two qts. of cold water, 

pour it over twelve lbs. of picked raspberries and let it stand 

forty-eight hours, then strain it, taking care not to bruise the 

fruit. To every pt. of clear juice add one and a-half lbs. of 

superfine sugar, and when thoroughly melted stir it well and 

let it stand till a froth and scum rise to the top, which must 

be taken off before it is bottled. It must all be done cold, and 

kept in a cold place with bladders over the bottles, which had 

better be the wide gooseberry bottles, as if any scum rises it 

can be taken off. When used, dissolve one and a quarter ozs. 

of gelatine in a very little water, and add a qt. bottle of 

liquid jelly to it. Pour it free from sediment, stir it well and 

pour into molds. In summer it requires rather more gelatine. 

Strawberries do equally well, or any other fruit. 



PRESERVES AND JELLIES. 131 

To Preserve Plums. 

Pick over fruit; make syrup of brown sugar, clarify it when 
boiling hot and pour over plums. Allow them to remain 
in the syrup two days, drain it off, heat it to boiling, skim 
it and pour over again; let them remain in two days; then put 
syrup and plums together in a preserving kettle, and let sim- 
mer gently till syrup is rich. One lb. sugar to one lb. plums. 
Cherries or any other fruit may be preserved in the same 
manner. Put them in pots or jars. 

Wine Jelly. 

Mrs. Whitney. 
One package of Cox's gelatine dissolved in one pt. of cold 
water. Let it stand ten minutes. Squeeze into it the juice of 
two lemons, strain out the seeds, one pt. of wine, add one qt, 
of boiling water, stir while pouring in, one and a-quarter lbs. 
white sugar, the white of an egg beaten light, and let it come 
to a boil. Strain through flannel; rinse the mold in hot 
water first, then in cold; wring the bag out of very hot water; 
do not squeeze it, but allow it to drip. In summer rub the 
white of an egg on the mold, that it may turn out smoothly. 
If these directions are followed your wine jelly will always 
be a success. 

Calves' Feet Jelly. 

Mrs. Mason. 
Take four feet well cleaned, add eight qts. of water to 
them, boil till reduced to three pts., strain it through a flan- 
nel bag, when cold skim off fat from top and bottom. Then 
put the jelly into a kettle with one and a-half pts. white 
wine, three-quarters of a lb. of loaf sugar, one teacup of lemon 
juice, and the whites of eight eggs beat to a froth with the 
shells, mix all the above ingredients and let them boil one 
or two minutes, strain through a flannel bag until clear. If 
you want to color it take the syrup of violets, put in enough 
to make it blue, cochineal to make it red, tincture of saf- 
fron a yellow, and juice of spinach, green. 



132 llELIABLE COOK BOOK. 



To Cook Apples. 

Mrs. Mason, 
Fill a qt, bowl with alternate layers of thinly sliced apples 
and sugar, and half a teacup of water, cover with a saucer, 
held in place by a weight, bake slowly three hours, let it stand 
until cold and it will turn out a rounded mass of clear and red 
slices, imbedded in firm jelly. 

To Preserve Watermelon Rinds. 

Pare off the green rind and the inner pulpy part, leaving 
nothing but the clear firm part. Have ready cold water, to a 
gal. add lump of alum size of an egg. Cut rind in pieces, 
according to fancy, throw into the alum water, cover with 
peach leaves, let stand in cool place till next day, turn off 
water, wash them clean, weigh them, to each lb. of fruit 
add half a lb. of white sugar, allow a qt. of water to each 
five lbs. of sugar, simmer over a slow fire until perfectly clear 
and tender, take off and fiavor with extract of lemon and 
ginger. 

For Grape Jelly. 

Mrs. Haxtun. 

Coddle your grapes, then take a pt. of the water to every 
lb. of sugar, and fresh lemon peel enough to make it taste. Boil 
until it is a jelly. 

To Preserve Clingstone Peaches. 

Mrs. Haxtun. 

Get the finest yellow clingstones, pare them and lay them in 
a bowl, have their weight in sugar pounded and sprinkle it 
over them as they are put in, let stand two or three hours, put 
them together with sugar in a pan, add a little water, let the ' 
peaches remain until thoroughly scalded, take out with ladle, 
draining off syrup. Should there not be enough to cover 
peaches add more water, boil and skim it, return peaches, let 
simmer gently till quite clear. Have some stones cracked, 
blanch kernels and 2:>reserve them with peaches. 



PRESERVES AND JELLIES. 183 

Canned Green Gooseberries. 

Mrs. Ward. 
Pick dried blossoms from the berries, place in cans and pour 
boiling water over, if the fruit turns white close cans, but if 
not, put the cans in boiling water and leave until the berries 
become white. These make pies equally as good as fresh 
fruit. 

Cranberry Jelly. 

Boil the fruit soft, strain it and add three-quarters of a lb, of 
sugar to one lb. of the juice or pulp. 

Ale Jelly. 

Mrs. Hobart. 

One box of Cooper's gelatine dissolved in one pt. of cold 
water with juice of three lemons. Let it stand one hour, add 
three or four sticks of cinnamon ; then pour on two pts. of boil- 
ing water, one and a half lbs. of sugar, three-quarters of a pint 
■of ale. Strain into molds. 

Rule for Canning Fruit. 

Mrs. M. 

Boil peaches eight minutes, 4 ozs. of sugar to one lb. of fruit. 

Blackberries boil ten minutes, '' " " " 

Raspberries boil six minutes, " " " *' 

Cherries boil five minutes, 6 " '' " " 

Pears boil twenty minutes, G " '' '' '' 

Plums boil ten minutes, 8 " " " " 

(irapes boil ten minutes, 8 " " '' " 

Gooseberries eight minutes, 8 " " " " 

Neapolitan Jelly. 

Make a qt. of jelly, separate in three parts, color one with 
cochineal, another with chocolate, the third with lemon, wet 
the mold, pour in a little lemon, then a little boiled icing, 
next a layer of chocolate, next icing, red on top of this alter- 
nate, until the mold is filled. Wait until the jelly is rather cool 
or it will run toirether. 



134 RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 



Brandy and Preserved Pine-apple. 

Mrs. Silleck. 
Pare them, taking out all the little black spots; slice and 
core them; put the nice whole ones in a jar, first a layer of 
pine-apple, then a layer of powdered sugar, alternate with 
fruit and sugar, until jar. is filled, cover with best white 
brandy, seal and they are ready for use. Take the broken 
pieces and cores, chop rather fine, add half lb. of sugar to 
each lb. of fruit, simmer till clear as amber, then fill jars. 



Custards, Creams, Ices, etc. 



Bavarian Cream. 

Mrs. Titus. 
One qt. of sweet cream, the yolks of four eggs, half oz. of 
gelatine, one small cup sugar, two teaspoonfuls vanilla or 
almond flavoring. Soak the gelatine in enough cold water to 
cover it for one hour, strain and stir into a pt. of the cream 
made boiling hot. Beat the yolks smooth with the sugar and add 
slowly to the boiling mixture. Heat again until it thickens, 
but not boil ; remove and flavor. While still hot, stir in other 
pt. of cream, already whipped in a syllabub, churn to a stifl" 
froth. The cream to be added one teaspoonful at a time and 
the mixture beaten to the consistency of sponge cake batter 
Put in molds and place on ice to form. 

Apple Souffle. 

Miss Jennison. 
Cover the bottom of a dish with nice stewed apples, sweet- 
ened and flavored to taste, pour over it a custard made of the 
yolks of eggs and milk ; whip the whites with a little 
sugar to put over the custard and set in a moderate oven to 
brown. 



CUSTARDS, CREAMS, ICES, ETC. 135 



Velvet Cream. 

Miis. Walz. 
One oz. of gelatine, soak in one qt. of milk until soft, then 
place in farina boiler to scald, wlien thoroughly dissolved add 
one cup sugar and the beaten yolks of three eggs, with half 
cup cold milk, stir until it thickens and set away to cool, then 
add the whites of eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Flavor to taste, 
pour into molds. 

Charlotte Russe. 

Mrs. C. Vogt. 
Take one qt. of cream and beat to a stiff froth. Previously 
to this put to soak half a package of Cooper's gelatine; add a 
pt. of cold water, then put on stove to dissolve, remove in a 
few minutes, and when cold beat to very stiff frotli. Mix cream 
and gelatine together; sweeten with powdered sugar to taste, 
and flavor with brandy or vanilla. Set in a cool place. 

Floating Island of Apples. 

Bake or scald eight large apples, when cold pare them and 
pulp them through a sieve. Beat up this pulp with sugar and 
add to it the whites of four or five eggs previously beaten 
with a small quantity of rose water. Mix this into the pulp a 
little at a time, beat until quite light, heap it up on a dish with 
a rich custard or jelly around it. 

Chocolate Icing. 

Miss Sweet. 
Quarter cake of chocolate, half cup sweet milk, one table- 
spoonful corn starch. Boil two minutes, remove from fire, 
flavor with one teaspoonful vanilla, add sugar. 

Another. 

Mrs. J. Moore. 
Two squares Baker's chocolate, three-quarters of a cup of 
sweet milk, one and a half cups sugar. Pound chocolate and 
dissolve it on fire in milk. Then add sugar and boil slowly 
fifty minutes. 



136 RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 



Pistachio Cream. 

Take half a lb. of pistachio nuts, extract the kernels and 
beat them in a mortar with a spoonful of brandy, then put 
them into a pan with a pt. of good cream, and the yolks of 
two eggs beat light, stir it gently over a very slow fire until 
it becomes thick, then put it into a deep china plate, and 
when it grows cold stick it all over with small pieces of nut 
and serve it up. 

Charlotte Russe. 

Miss L. Middleton. 
One pt. of cream, one pt. of milk, quarter lb. fine sugar, 
four eggs, one paper gelatine. Dissolve the gelatine in the 
milk on the stove. Beat the yolks of the eggs and sugar 
together and mix them with the milk when cool. Beat up the 
cream and sweeten it, flavor with vanilla and mix with the rest. 

Fairy Apples. 

Have some tin molds about the size and shape of half a small 
orange, prepare some stiff cornstarch, blancmange, color half 
of it with pink sugar to a bright color, flavor the white with 
sherry wine and the pink with rose extract ; dip the molds in 
cold water and fill half of them with the white and the others 
with pink, when cold turn them out and with a little gum 
water or sugar and gum water stick a white and pink 
together, thus making solid balls. Arrange in a pyramid on a 
glass dish. 

Floating Island. 

Mrs. Smith. 

Boil one qt. of milk, stir into it the beaten yolks of six 
eggs, flavor with lemon or vanilla and sweeten to taste, whip 
the whites to a strong froth, when the custard is thick put in 
a deep dish and heap the frothed eggs upon it. Serve cold. 

Pink Coloring for Icing. 

Ten grs. of cochineal, same of cream tartar, same of alum, 
half gill of soft water, scald it, do not boil, strain and bottle 

it for use. A very small quantity is needed to color icing, 

« 



CUSTARDS, CREAMS, ICES, ETC. 137 



Apple Snow. 

Miss Cripps. 
Six ozs. of the pulp of baked apples, six ozs. of pow- 
dered sugar, the grated rind and juice of a lemon and the 
whites of two eggs, add a small pinch of powdered alum and 
whip together for one hour. Serve on sliced sponge cake or 
alone. 

Dutch Flummery. 

Miss Cripps. 
Soak two ozs. of Cox's gelatine in a pt. of cold water. Boil 
till it dissolves. Strain and add one pt. of sherry or Madeira 
wine, add the juice and peel of two lemons. Beat eight 
eggs (yolks very thoroughly), and add sugar to taste. Boil 
all up together, stirring well, being careful not to overcook 
the egg. Pour into molds when almost cold, keeping it stirred 
previously. 

Spanish Cream. 

Mrs. Walz. 
Half box of gelatine, three eggs, four tablespoonfuls sugar, 
three half pts. milk. Soak gelatine in milk, allow it to scald, 
then beat yolks and sugar together hard, stir both together, 
scald again. Beat the whites to a stiff froth, stir to the above, 
flavor and pour into molds. Make a jelly with the remainder 
of the gelatine and three lemons. 

Flummery. 

Half hour before dinner lay sponge cake or macaroons in 
the bottom of a glass bowl, pour over white wine until quite 
moist, make a rich custard with the yolks of eggs, pour 
over the above when cold; beat the whites of the eggs to a 
stiff froth and place on top. 

Boiled Icing. 

Mrs. Haxtun. 
One and a half lbs. sugar, half pt. water boiled till it ropes 
have ready whites of seven eggs beaten to a stiff froth, pour the 
syrup into a bowl and stir until milk-warm, then put in the 
eggs and beat for one hour. 



138 RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 

Almond Custard. 

Miia. Ludlow Thomas. 
Put a qt. of cream into a stew pan with a stick of cinna- 
mon and a blade or two of mace, boil and set it to cool ; blanch 
two ozs. of sweet almonds, beat them fine in a marble mortar 
with rose water and a few bitter almonds, if you like these 
flavorings. Add these to your cream, and after sweetening to 
your taste, set it on the fire, stir it till it is pretty thick, but do 
not let it quite boil. 

Icing. 

Mrs. Thomas. 
Whites of three eggs beaten to a stiff froth, juice of one 
lemon, one teaspoonful of starch made fine, a small lump of 
gum arable dissolved in tlie lemon juice, one lb. pulverized 
sugar. 

Icing without Eggs. 

Three teaspoonfuls gelatine soaked in water, just enough to 
cover it, when dissolved add powdered sugar and beat until it 
is the right consistency. 

Angelic Fodder. 

Miss B, Johnes. 
One qt. milk, six eggs, six tablespoonfuls sugar, one glass of 
wine, a little more than half a box of gelatine, dissolve gelatine 
in qt. of milk, warm milk till gelatine is dissolved. Beat the 
yolks with sugar and pour the warm mixture over them. Heat 
to the consistency of boiled custard, let it stand to cool for 
eight minutes. Add wine and whites of eggs, cool, in a 
mold. 

Souffle de Russe. 

Mrs. J, Moore. 
One qt. and a half pt. of milk, one oz. of Cox's gelatine. 
Boil one minute four tablespoonfuls sugar, three eggs, yolks 
well beaten. Stir into milk wliile boiling. Stir well and boil 
one minute, then stir in the whites of three eggs well beaten, 
take it up quickly, flavor with vanilla. Pour into a mold. 
Serve with cream and sugar. 



CUSTARDS, CREAMS, ICES, ETC. 139 

Egg Cream. 

Mrs. Parrott, Keokuk. 
To three pts, of new milk use nine eggs, leaving out the 
whites of five, sweeten to taste, set the bucket containing 
cream in boiling water and let it remain until it comes to the 
right consistency, then let it become perfectly cold ; when 
ready to serve take the whites of five eggs, four dessertspoonfuls 
of pulverized sugar and two of currant jelly, beat until it 
becomes perfectly thick and place on top of prepared cream. 
Tablespoonful at a time. 

Delmonico Ice Cream. 

Mrs. Parrott, Keokuk. 
To two qts. of new milk use nine eggs and sweeten very 
sweet and cook in same manner as egg cream (see above). 
When ready to freeze add one qt. of purp cream and flavor to 
taste. 

Charlotte Russe. 

Mrs. Weaver, Utica. 
Bake thin sponge cake cut in squares and place in molds 
or one large one hollowed out, which fill with a layer of wme 
jelly and currant jelly and stack up with whipped cream. 

Rice Cups. 

Miss Sweet. 
Boil one teacup rice quite soft, sweeten with powdered sugar, 
place in small cups, when cold turn out, make a little hollow 
in top of each, whip the whites of five eggs with a little 
sugar, pour some over each rice cup^ and spot on top and around 
the edge with currant jelly. 

Chocolate Cream. 

Miss Sweet. 
One qt. sweetened milk, three tablespoonfuls of grated 
chocolate, tw^o tablespoonfuls corn starch, when milk is scalding 
hot, add the corn starch and chocolate dissolved in cold milk. 
Boil five minutes, flavor with vanilla. Serve cold. 



140 RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 



Orange Souffle. 

Miss Sweet. 
Slice five oranges and pour over them a cold custard made of 
one pt. of milk, yolks of tive eggs, sweetened to taste, beat 
whites of eggs to a froth. Brown carefully. 

Chocolate Blanc Mange. 

Miss L. Middleton. 
Half box Cox's gelatine dissolved in half pt. cold water, one 
and a-half pts. of milk put over to boil with half cup grated 
French chocolate. When the milk is just scalded pour in 
gelatine, sweeten to taste, cook twenty minutes, flavor with 
vanilla, pour into molds. To be eaten with cream, sweetened 
and flavored with vanilla. 

CofiTee Custard. 

Mrs. Thomas. 
Mix the white of one egg with one cup of fresh ground coffee 
and pour on it one pt. boiling water and let it stand ten min- 
utes. Pour it off clear into a saucepan, add one pt. of cream 
and boil. Beat from five to eight eggs with one and a-half 
cups of sugar, and pour the boiling mixture over this, stirring- 
it well. Set the whole in boiling water, and stir till it thickens. 
Eat cold. 

Cream Glace. 

Miss M. Moore. 
One-third of a box of Cox's gelatine, let it dissolve in one 
pt. of milk on the fire, but not boil, then take the yolk of 
three eggs, half pt. milk, sugar to taste, beaten together and 
put in the milk after the gelatine is all melted, let it thicken 
as for custard, and separate in the spoon. Then take off the 
fire, cool a few minutes, strain it through a sieve, flavor to 
taste with vanilla and stir in the three whites of eggs (beaten 
stiff), just lightly, turn into wet mold. The jelly should be 
clear and go to the top and the rest to the bottom, if done cor- 
rectly. It will fill two medium sized molds. 



CUSTARDS, CREAMS, ICES, ETC. 141 



Tapioca Cream. 

Miss M. Moore. 
Soak one small teacup of tapioca over night. Put one qt, 
of milk to boil, take three yolks well beaten with one cup 
white sugar, and stir into tapioca, flavor to taste. When the 
milk boils stir the whole in, and when it boils second time, 
have ready the whites of eggs beaten to a froth, and stir in 
gently, pour off, set in cool place. 

Boiled Custard. 

M. L. T. 

Boil one pt. milk with sugar and lemon, rind to taste, beat 
up three eggs, the yolks and whites separately, pour the whiter 
into the yolks, then the boiling milk into the eggs, place the 
dish containing this (in which it is to be served) in a pan of 
boiling water and boil for three-quarters of an hour. The dish 
must be covered while boiling. 

Brandy Cream. 

One pt, of cream, the juice of two lemons, sugar to taste, 
two ozs. of isinglass dissolved in a teacup of water; whisk 
the cream a little by itself, then whisk in the lemon juice and 
sugar, then the brandy (a large wine-glassful), then the isin- 
glass, strained and cool. If put in too warm it will turn the 
cream. This will fill two molds. 

Caledonian Cream, 

Two ozs. of raspberry jam or jelly, same of red currant jelly, 
same of sifted loaf sugar, the whites of two eggs beaten to a 
5^i^ froth, then beat the whole together and place on sliced 
sponge cake. 

Carragreen Blanc Mange. 

Mrs. Thomas. 
A very nice blanc mange for summer use may be made by 
soaking a small handful of carragreen or Irish moss for a few 
hours in cold water, then Ijoil it in a qt. of rich milk or cream; 
run it through a sieve, sweeten and flavor with vanilla or any 
thing preferred. Pour into molds and cool. 



143 RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 

Ice Cream. 

Mrs. Thomas, 
To every two qt8. of cream allow one well beaten egg and 
three-quarters of a lb. of sugar and two teaspoonfuls extract 
of vanilla, or any flavoring you like better. If the cream is 
not very good, the number of eggs may be increased and a 
little flour may be boiled in some milk to thicken the whole. 
Cream ought to double itself in freezing if well beaten. 

Cream or Boiled Custard. 

Mrs. Thomas. 
One qt. new milk, one qt. cream, six eggs, one lemon. Beat 
^he yolks of the eggs and three of the whites well. Let your 
cream and milk come to a boil, and stir in one full tablespoon- 
ful of flour mixed in a little cold milk. When it has boiled 
take it off the fire and stir in eggs and sugar. Grate in the 
rind and juice of the lemon. 

Spanish Cream. 

Mrs. Ide. 
Half box of gelatine, one qt. milk, yolks of three eggs, one 
small cup of sugar. Soak the gelatine one hour in the milk, 
put it on the fire and stir well as it warms. Beat the yolks very 
light with the sugar, add to the scalding milk and heat to 
boiling, stirring all the while. Flavor with lemon or vanilla, 
cool it before turning into mold. Beat the whites just before 
serving^ to a stiff froth, add half a cup of wine and one cup of 
sugar. This makes a light froth to be poured over the mold. 
The whites will keep over niglit in a cool place in good con- 
dition, to be beaten up next day. 

Apple Foam. 

Miss Thayer. 
Six good-sized apples, bake soft, take the jiulps and put 
with it one teacup of granulated sugar and the white of one 
egg. Beat together until white apd foaming, and the spoon 
will stand upright. It is improved with boiled custard poured 
over it. 



CLTSTARDS, CREAMS, ICES, ETC. 148 

Snow and Ice Pudding, 

Mrs. Cokwin, 
In one pt. of boiling water dissolve one-third of a package 
of Cox's gelatine, three-fourths of a teacup of sugar, juice of 
two lemons, when nearly formed into jelly stir in lightly the 
whites of two eggs, beaten to a stiff froth, then place in a 
mold and serve with a boiled custard poured over it. Custard 
— Yolks of two eggs, one pt. of milk, two tablespoonfuls sugar, 
little vanilla. 

Lemon Cream, 

Mrs. Mason. 
Beat the yolks of eight eggs, then put to them one pt. of boil- 
ing water, the rind of one lemon grated and the juice of two, 
sweetened to taste ; stir it until it begins to thicken over the 
fire, and when a little cool put in glasses. 

Chocolate Custard. 

Mrs. Mason. 
Dissolve gently by the side of the fire an oz. and a-half of 
the best chocolate in rather more than a wine-glassful of water, 
then boil it until it is perfectly smooth; mix with it apt. of 
milk, well flavored with lemon peel or vanilla and two ozs. 
of fine sugar, when the wliole boils stir to it five well beaten 
eggs that have been strained. Put the custard into a jar or 
jug, set it into a pan of boiling water, stir without ceasing 
until thick. Do not pur it iu glasses or a dish till nearly or 
quite cold. These, as well as all other custards, are infinitely 
finer when made of the yolks of eggs only. 

Barley Cream. 

Mrs. Haxtun. 
Take two teaspoonfuls of pearl barley, boil it in milk and 
water till tender, strain the liquor from it, put the barley into 
a pt, and a-half of cream and let it boil a little; then take 
the whites of five eggs and the yolk of one, beat in with a 
spoonful of flour and two of rose water. Take the cream off 
the fire, mix in the eggs by degrees and set it over the fire again 
to thicken ; sweeten to taste, pour it iu cups and when cold serve. 



144 RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 

Italian Cream. 

Mrs. Mason. 
Mix one pt. of rich cream with half a pt. of milk; sweeten 
to taste, add two gills of Madeira wine, one gill of rose water. 
Beat these ingredients thoroughly. Dissolve in boiling water 
one and a half ozs. of isinglass, strain it through a sieve and 
stir it into the cream ; fill the molds, when firm turn out. 

Floating Island. 

Mrs. Mason. 
Take one pt. of thick cream, sweeten with fine sugar, grate 
in the peel of one lemon and add a gill of sweet white wine ; 
whisk it well till you have raised a good froth, then pour one 
pt. of thick cream into a china dish, take one French roll, 
slice it thin and lay it over the cream as lightly as possible, 
then a layer of clear calves' fee jelly, or currant jelly, then 
whip up your cream and lay on the froth as high as you can, 
and what remains pour into the bottom of the dish. Garnish 
the rim with sweetmeats. 

To Whip Cream. 

Sweeten a bowl of cream WMth loaf sugar and flavor it w4th any 
juicy fruit, or lemon or orange, by rubbing sugar on peel; set 
another bowl near the above, with a sieve, cover it, then whip 
the cream with a whisk, and as it rises in a froth take it off with a 
skimmer and put it into the sieve to drain, whip also tlie 
cream which drains off and when done ornament with lemon 
raspings. This cream may be used before it is set, upon cus- 
tards, trifle or syllabub. 

A Trifle. 

Mrs. Mason. 
Whip cream as directed above, adding a little brandy and 
sweet wine, then lay in a glass dish, sponge cakes and maca- 
roons, wet thoroughly with brandy and wine, on top of this 
place a rich custard, grated nutmeg and lemon peel, next a 
layer of red currant jelly, upon the whole a very high whip. 



CUSTARDS, CREAMS, ICES, ETC. 145 

Cream a la Vanilla. 

Mrs. Haxtun. 
One oz. of isinglass, five ozs. of sugar, three pts. milk. Boil 
the isinglass in the milk till it is dissolved, then take the yolks 
of four eggs well beaten and mix the whole, put it into molds, 
and when it is cold turn it out, it is better to be made the 
day before using it. Flavor it with vanilla. 

Almond Icing. 

Mrs. Haxtun. 
Beat the whites of three eggs to a froth ; beat one lb. 
almonds very fine with rose water; mix the almonds lightly 
with the eggs, and put in by degrees one lb. loaf sugar. 

Cream Chocolate. 

Mrs. Haxtun. 
Take a little more than half a lb. of chocolate, grate and 
put in a kettle with three pts. of milk. Stir it over a fire 
gently until it looks smooth (only use part of the milk at a 
time), then add a little more milk and stir again over the fire. 
Continue this until it becomes the consistency of cream, 
sweeten to taste. Dissolve one box of gelatine, let it all boil 
about five minutes, strain, put in molds. 

Orange Float. 

One qt. of water, the juice and pulp of two lemons, one 
coffee cup of sugar, when boiling add to it four tablespoonfuls 
of Duryea's Improved Corn Starch mixed in water ; let it boil, 
stirring it fifteen minutes; when cool pour it over four or 
five sliced oranges ; over the top spread the beaten whites of 
three eggs sweetened, and a few drops of vanilla. Eaten with 
cream. 

Chocolate Merangue. 

Boil four ozs. chocolate in one and a-half pts. cream or milk, 
add three and a-half ozs. Duryea's Improved Corn Starch dis- 
solved in milk; add four eggs beaten light with six ozs. sugar; 
when coolins: flavor with vanilla. To be eaten with cream. 



146 RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 



Chocolate Ice. 

Mix two cakes of grated chocolate to a paste in milk; one 
c]t. of milk while boiling, add the chocolate and sweeten with 
sugar to taste. Let it cool, then add one teaspoonful vanilla. 
Freeze as ice cream. 

Lemon Ice. 

Whites of six eggs beaten to a stiff froth; add the juice of 
five small lemons, qt. and a pt. of water, and very little more than 
two teacupfuls of sugar; stir until the sugar is dissolved. 
Fill mold and set in freezer. 



CANDY. 



Chocolate Caramels. 

Miss L. Ivins. 
Half lb. Baker's chocolate, two lbs. brown sugar, one cup of 
milk, quarter lb. of butter. Put all on together and stir con- 
stantly till it becomes grainy. Have pans buttered and pour in, 
when partly cool cut in squares with knife. 

While Sugar Candy. 

Miss L. Ivins. 
One qt. of coffee sugar, half a pt. of water, dessertspoonful 
vinegar, lump of butter size of an egg. Boil one hour without 
stirring. 

Wolasses Candy. 

H. W. 

One qt. of molasses, a piece of butter the size of a walnut, 
grease the pot well and if any butter is left let it remain in the 
pot. Use a pot that will hold a gal., put in the molasses, boil 
over a hot fire, stir constantly when it begins to thicken; it is 
cooked when some dropped from a spoon will lay on a glass of 
ice water, take from the fire and stir in half teaspoonful soda. 
Pour in unbuttered fliat tins. 



CANDY. 147 

Maillard's Chocolate Caramels. 

Mrs. B. Johnes. 
One cup boiled milk, one cup molasses or syrup, two cups 
brown sugar, half a cup chocolate, one tablespoonful flour. 
Cut the chocolate in fine pieces and when the other ingredients 
are well heated put in the chocolate. 

Cocoanut Candy. 

Miss Sweet. 
One cocoanut grated, two lbs. finely sifted white sugar, 
whites of two eggs, milk of one cocoanut. Mix together, 
make into cakes. When dry it is as good as though boiled. 

TofTy. 

Mrs. Leavitt. 
One cup sugar, same of molasses, half a cup sweet milk, 
one teaspoonful vinegar, one teaspoonful water, butter size of 
a small egg. Boil twenty minutes and when almost done put 
in half a teaspoon of soda. Turn into buttered pans. 

Cocoanut Cream Candy. 

Mrs. Taylor. 

One cocoanut, one and a-half lbs. granulated sugar, milk 
of the cocoanut. Heat the sugar and milk rather slowly; 
when the sugar is dissolved boil rapidly five minutes, then 
add cocoanut finely grated, boil ten minutes longer, 
stir continually to keep from burning. When it becomes a 
rather firm paste on a cold plate it is done. Have ready 
buttered paper, lay buttered pieces of wood in form of a square, 
pour the mixture in, it will be soft at first, but will harden in 
two days if left in a warm dry place. 

Lemon Drops. 

Take the juice of three lemons, strained fine, and mix with 
it one lb. of fine sugar, beaten and sifted. Beat them one 
hour; it will make them white and bright; then drop them 
up«m writing paper and dry them before the fire. 



148 RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 

Chocolate Cream Drops. 

Miss C. Shively. 
Boil together two cups of sugar and one cup of water until 
it can be poured on a plate and beaten stiff; before removing 
from the stove flavor it with -vaniUa. After it has been beaten 
stiff roll it into little balls. Then grate part of a cake of 
French chocolate and moisten it a little with water, allow it to 
melt by placing the vessel which holds it in a pail of hot water, 
then drop the balls in, taking care they are well covered 
before removing them. Place them on a platter to dry. 

Chocolate Cream Drops. 

Miss Sweet. 
Three tablespoonfuls water in a teacup, fill the cup with 
milk, two cups of granulated sugar; boil fifteen or twenty 
minutes, flavor with teaspoon of vanilla, remove from fire, beat- 
ing it all the time until cool enough to roll into little balls. 
Grate two ounces of Baker's chocolate in a bowl, melt it over 
a teakettle of boiling v.-ater, roll the balls in, place on buttered 
paper and put in front of fire to dry. 

Walnut Candy. 

Make same as molasses, when done stir in either black wal- 
nuts or hickory nuts, or ground nuts. 

Pop Corn Cakes. 

Make good molasses candy, before pouring into pans add 
plenty of freshly popped corn, place in buttered tins and press 
down flat. Boil sugar to candy pop corn. 

Vanilla Caramels. 

New York Times. 
Boil clarified sugar flavored with the essence of vanilla until 
it is very brittle, and then pour it out on a very carefully 
oiled sheet of tin. When sufficiently cool to receive an impres- 
sion of the finger, mark it out in squares an inch in size, after 
which glaze them with another coat of sugar; then place them 
out in a dry place to harden. 



BEVERAGES. 149 



To Crystallize Pop Corn. 

New York Times. 
Put into au iron kettle one tablespoonful butter, three table- 
spoonfuls "vvater, and one teacupful of white sugar; boil 
until ready to candy, then throw in three qts. of corn nicely 
popped; stir briskly until the candy is evenly distributed over 
the corn ; set the kettle from the fire, and stir until it is cooled 
a little^ and you have each grain separate and crystallized witii 
the sugar; care should be taken not to have too hot a fire lest 
you scorch the corn when crystallizing. Nuts of any kind pre- 
pared in this way are delicious. 



BEVERAGES. 



Mead. 

Mrs, Titus. 
Three lbs. sugar, one and a-half pts. molasses, quarter of a 
lb. tartaric acid, two qts. boiling water. When cold add one 
oz. checkerberry, one oz. sarsaparilla. Dissolve one teaspoonful 
soda in one qt. ice water; when poured in goblet add mead 
until it foams. 

Whipped Cream and Wine. 

Mrs. Middleton. 
Beat the whites of as many eggs as you need to a stiff froth r 
sweeten with sugar to taste and drop in glasses of wine. 

Cream Soda. 

Three lbs. of sugar, two ozs. of tartaric acid, the juice of one 
lemon, three pts. of water. Boil together for five minutes; 
when nearly cold add the whites of three eggs, mixing with 
them half a cup of flour, and beating the eggs well; add also 
half oz. of essence of wintergreen. For use — Put a small wine- 
glassful into half a tumbler of water, and add a small teaspoon- 
ful of carbonate of soda. When carefully bottled, this will 
keep for months. 



150 RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 

Currant Wine. 

Miss Cripps. 
To every qt. of currant juice three qts. of water and three lbs. 
of white sugar. Put all in a small cask and mix well. Do not 
bung it up, but put in the cork lightly. About half a pt. of 
brandy or whisky to five gals, of wine. Let it work for three 
or four weeks, then bung the cask tight, and keep for one 
year. An extra qt. of currant juice to every five gals, is an 
improvement. The cask must be sufiiciently full for the work- 
ing of the wine to come out at the top. 

Milk Punch. 

Mrs. Hebert. 
One wine glass of brandy, two teaspoonfuls sugar, two-thirds 
goblet of milk, quantity of chopped ice. Put the contents 
into a tin muddier, and shake thoroughly for three minutes. 
The glass must fit the muddler tightly to exclude the air. 

Blackberry Brandy, 

Miss Sweet. 
To one pk. of berries, well mashed, add two ozs. allspice, 
one oz. cinnamon, one oz. cloves; mix and boil slowly until 
well cooked; then strain the juice through flannel and add to 
each pt. of juice one lb. loaf sugar. Boil again for some time 
and while cooking add one qt. best Cognac 'brandy. 

Egg-Nogg. 

Beat six eggs separately, stir the yolks into one qt. of milk, 
or thin cream, half lb. of sugar, mix in half pt. rum or brandy; 
flavor with a grated nutmeg; lastly stiria the beaten whites of 
three eggs. Mix in a china bowl. 

Pie-Plant Wine. 

Mrs. Middleton. 
Chop the plant fine, put in a jar, cover it with water, let it 
stand twenty-four hours, then strain. Then put to a gal. of 
juice three and a-half lbs. of white sugar, put in a jug until it 
sinks, then strain it off and cork tight. 



BEVERAGES. 151 



To Make Rennet Wine. 

Mils. Leavitt. 
Half a rennet cut in small line pieces and put in a qt, of 
wine, one oz. stick cinnamon, one grated nutmeg. Shake 
occasionally for a few days, when it will be fit for use. 

Raspberry Vinegar. 

Miss Cripps. 
To three lbs. of raspberries add one pt. and a-half of the 
best vinegar. Let the vinegar stand on the berries for three or 
four days; then stir them well together and strain. To every 
pt. of juice add one and a-half lbs. of white sugar. Boil 
three-quarters of an hour. 

Orange Lemonade. 

Take three oranges, one large lemon and two or three ozs. 
of sugar ; rub off some of the peel on to the sugar, squeeze on 
the juice and pour on two pts. of boiling water; mix the whole 
and strain. 

Measure for Liquids. 

Sixteen large tablespoonfuls are half a pt. ; eight large 
tablespoonf uls are one gill ; four large tablespoonfuls are half a 
giU; two gills are half apt.; two pts. are one qt. ; four qts. 
are one gal.; a common sized tumbler holds half a pt. ; a 
common sized wine-glass holds half a gill; four teaspoonfuU 
are one tablespoonful. 

Apple Jack. 

Mrs. Haxtun. 
Eight apples baked, two lbs. white sugar, one pt. brandy, 
half pt. Jamaica rum, two qts. hot water, one nutmeg, one 
lemon, sliced thin. Bake the apples and mash them skin and 
all, add the sugar and pour on the hot water ; when cold add 
the liquor, nutmeg and lemon. Improve by keeping a few 
days. 



152 RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 

Punch. 

Mrs. Haxtun. 
Half gal. of cold green tea, three pts. Jamaica rum, ODe pt. 
of brandy, one pt. of sherry wine, one qt. of water, two cups 
of white sugar to one of currant jelly. Cut crosswise six 
lemons. 

Lemonade. 

Dissolve sugar in lemon juice, at little at a time, dilute with 
water to suit the taste, add a large piece of ice, a few slices of 
lemon, berries and small pieces of pine-apple if desired. 

Gum Arabic Water. 

Mrs. Annan. 
Two ozs. gum arable, same of rock candy, six lumps of 
block sugar, juice of two lemons, one pt. of boiling water; 
stir occasionally until dissolved. Will be enough for two days. 

Apple Water. 

Mrs. Annan. 

Six nice apples sliced thin without peeling, juice of one 
lemon and one qt. of boiling water, sweeten to taste and let 
it stand until cold. This is a very refreshing drink in cases of 
fever. 

Cherry Bounce. 

Add three lbs. loaf sugar, two ozs. bitter almonds to six lbs. 
of cherries ; two qts. best brandy poured over this, let it steep, 
then bottle. Can either strain or leave the cherries in. 

Claret Cup. 

New YojiK Times. 
Six tablespoonfuls sherry, two tablespoonfuls brandy, one 
and a half ozs. sugar, a few shreds lemon peel ; to these add 
one bottle claret and one bottle soda-water. Keep in a cool 
place and only open before drinking. 



MISCELLANEOUS, 153 



MISCELLANEOUS. 



To Wash Bankets. 

Mrs. Leavitt. 
Take a pt. of soft soap, put into it a desertspoonful of 
powdered borax, pour boiling water upon it until the soap is 
dissolved, then mix it well in a tub of cold water, enough 
to cover the blankets well, let them soak for one hour of 
more and occasionally pull the blankets up and down to stir 
them, but do not rub them. After they have been in the water 
until it looks as if the dirt was out, put them into a tub of 
cold clear water without wringing them, then after soaking 
and moving about a little put them into a tub of clean cold 
w^ater and let them soak a while, then lay then over a double 
line in the yard; do not wring them, let them d-rip and tliey 
will be soft and white when dried. This quantity will wash 
one pair of small blankets, or one large one. 

Taking out Iron-Rust. 

Miss C. Middleton. 
Place cream tartar on spot, moisten with water. 

To Clean Gold Chains. 

Miss Carrie Shively. 
Put the chain in a small glass bottle with water, a little 
tooth-powder and some soap, Cork the bottle and shake it 
violently. The friction against the glass polishes the gold, and 
the soap and powder extract dirt from the chain. Rinse in 
clear cold water, wipe with towel and the polish will surprise 
you. 

Flaxseed Poultice. 

If a flaxseed poultice is required to heal, add a few drops of 
laudanum; if to draw, use cream tartar instead. 



154 RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 



Chapped Hands. 

Mrs. Middleton. 
Ten cents' worth of glycerine, live cents' worth of borax, 
dissolved in one pt. of hot water and perfumed with rose- 
water. 

Asthma Cure. 

Mrs. J. Hebert. 
Twenty grains tartar emetic, forty grains pulverized opium, 
four ozs. spirits sweet niter, two ozs, liquorice, twelve table- 
spoonfuls honey, one pt, best whisky. A dessertspoonful to 
be taken three times a day. 

For Cleaning Silver. Poison. 

Mrs. J. Hebert. 
Dissolve one-half lb. cyanide of potassium and one half lb. 
salts of tartar in one gallon soft water. Di}) the article in the 
solution for a few seconds only. Wash with clean hot water, 
wipe dry with soft towels and chamois skin. 

To Wash Hair Brush. 

Washing soda dissolved in w^ater, place bristles of brush in 
(careful not to allow the watei*to reach the wood or ivory), let 
stand a few moments. Dip in clean water and dry in the 
sun. 

To Clean a Fine Tooth Comb. 

Fasten several lengths of strong silk or cotton to a bureau 
handle; hold the comb in the left hand, pass the thread 
between the teeth of the comb. Wash well and dry with' soft 
towel. 

An Excellent Wash for the Hair. 

One handful of bran in one qt. of water, cool and strain, 
when milk-warm rub in a little white soap (castile), wash the 
hair thoroughly, part the hair to reach the roots; beat the 
yolk of an egg and with your lingers rub into the roots well, 
ullow it to remain a few minutes; then rinse your hair in clear 
water, wipe dry. Use the above once a fortnight. 



MISCELLANEOUS. 155 



Poultice, which will not blister. 

Mrs. Middleton. 
Beat the white of an egg, mix mustard with it. 

Java Water, for Removing Mildew. 

Miss B. Johnes. 
Take two gals, rain water, pour it boiling hot upon one lb. 
sal-soda and half lb. chloride of lime and let it stand over 
night. Then pour off the water clear and bottle it for use. 
Use one and a-half pts. to one gal. of water. The article may 
remain in this one hour or more. 

Cologne. 

Miss Moffat. 

One oz. oil of bergamot, one oz. oil of lemon, two drachms 
oil of neroly, one drachm oil or ottar of roses, two drachms of 
musk, sixteen drops oil of cinnamon, twelve drops oil of 
cloves. The musk powder must be put in a gill of alcohol ; 
after a few weeks the decoction can be poured off and alcohol 
again applied. This will make one gal. 

The odor may be prevented from escaping by keeping the 
cork and neck of the bottle covered with the finger-end or 
thumb of an old kid glove cut off for that purpose. 

• Cleaning Gloves. 

Miss L. Silleck. 
Fill a glass half full of clear benzine, immerse the glove, 
squeeze it gently once or twice, then draw on the hand (or 
place on a cloth), rub quickly and softly with clean white towel. 
When clean place near register to dry, as the heat destroys 
the obnoxious odor. {Never taJce bemine in a room where there 
is an openjire.) This quantity will clean two pairs. 

Insects in Cages. 

Put a piece of linen once or twice doubled over the top and 
let hang down the sides of the cage every night, you will find 
it full of insects in tlie morning. Wash the linen each day in 
hot water to kill the insect?. 



156 RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 

To Remove Grease from Silk. 

Miss L. Middleton. 
Wash soiled part with ether. 

To Cure a Felon. 

Cranberries (raw) mashed and applied as a poultice to a felon, 
will in almost all cases prove effective. 

Something Worth Knowing. 

If after having bruised some sprigs of parsley in your hands 
you attempt to rinse glasses, they will suddenly snap or break. 

To Wash Navy-Blue Woolen Stockings. 

Soak them ten minutes, before v/ashing them, in a pail of 
cold water containing one teaspoonful of sugar of lead, wash 
in weak borax water. Never use much soap in washing, it 
hardens the wool. 

To Crystallize Grasses and Twigs. 

Twelve ozs. of alum dissolved in two qts. of boiling water, 
tie grasses in a bunch and place in solution while hot, let it re- 
main without touching it until cold, then separate grasses; 
cover a twig by wrapping some loose wool or cotton round the 
branches, tie it on with worsted. Suspend this in a basin or 
jar, dissolve alum in boiling water and pour it over. Allow it 
to stand twelve hours; wire baskets can be covered in the 
same manner. If the crystals are too large make the solution 
weaker. 

Billiousness, 

Oranges ward off billions attacks: eat three oranges a day and 
the doctors would lose their most profitable cases. 

Borax for Washing. 

Mrs. Haxtun. 
Woolens washed in cold water with a little borax will not only 
be well cleaned but there will be no shrinkage. The women 
of Holland, so noted for their white clothes, use borax in the 
proportion of a large handful to about ten gals, of boiling 
water. 



MISCELLANEOUS. 157 

To Clean Black Lace. 

An even teaspoon of borax in a pint of warm water, place 
lace on clean black cloth, sponge with black kid glove, cover 
with black silk and iron while damp. 

For Ivies. 

Mks. Mason. 
Put rusty nails into the earth, water once a week with tobac- 
co water, put a sweet potato in the water. 

For Chest and Lung Complaints. 

Mrs. Mason. 
Take one qt. of freshly skimmed milk, boil in it one oz. of 
manna, drinking this quantity cool in small draughts at inter- 
vals through the day. 

For Sickness at Stomach. 

Pop corn freshly popped and salted ; sometimes a glass of 
kissengen will ward oS. a sick-headache. 

Polish for Walnut Furniture, 

Mrs. Haxtun. 
One pt. of shellac, half a pt. of French varnish and a very 
little boiled oil. Shake the mixture well before using it, 
dampen a piece of soft cloth or cotton, rub the furniture; then 
rub dry with another piece of cloth. (This is used only for 
walnut furniture.) 

Wash for the Hair. 

^^Three pts. of -bay rum, half pt. spirits of wine, half pt, of 
wat'.T, quarter of an oz. of tincture of cantharides, quarter of an 
oz. carbonate of ammonia, half oz. salt of tartar, rub it on the 
head after washing with water. 

Toilet. 

Glycerine well rubbed in with the hand, then magnesia, wipe 
with fine towel. 

For Cleaning Paint. 

Use ammonia and water. 



158 RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 

To Make Linen Glossy. 

Take the solid mutton fat, render it and add one teaspoonful 
susar, throw it into cold water, and use it instead of butter or 
wax in starch. 

Tooth Powder. 

Use prepared chalk. 

Compress for Sprains. 

Wet a cloth thoroughly with ice water, bind it around the 
sprain closely ; wrap outside of this flannel (dry). Apply until 
relief is found. 

Antidote To Poison. 

For any poison swallow instantly a glass of cold water with 
a heaping teaspoonful of common salt, and one of ground 
mustard stirred in. This is a speedy emetic. When it has 
acted swallow the whites of two raw eggs. If you have taken 
corrosive sublimate take half a dozen raw eggs besides the 
emetic. If laudanum, a cup of very strong coffee. If arsenic, 
first the emetic, then half a cup of sweet oil or melted lard. 

To Stop the Flow of Blood. 

Marion Harland. 
Bind the cut with a cobweb and brown sugar pressed on 
like lint, or if you cannot obtain these, with the fine dust of 
tea. Apply laudanum when the blood ceases to flow. 

Eau Sucre. 

Marion Harland. 
Dissolve three or four lumps of loaf sugar in a glass of ice 
water, and take a teaspoonful every few minutes for a tickling 
in the throat. Keep it ice cold. 

White Liniment for Rheumatism. 

Mrs. Haxtun, 
The yolk of one egg, a wine-glass of vinegar, same of water, 
wine-glass and a-half of turpentine, put them into a bottle, 
as they are put doicn and shake them well. 



MISCELLANEOUS. 159 

Items for Housekeepers. 

Mrs. Haxtun. 
Alum or vinegar is good to set colors of red, green, or yel- 
low. A hot shovel held over burnished furniture will take 
out white spots. A bit of glue dissolved in skimmed milk 
and water, will restore rusty old crape. If your flat irons 
are rough, rub them with fine salt and it will make them 
smooth. Soap rubbed on the hinges of doors will prevent 
their creaking. Scotch snuff put on the holes where crickets 
come out will destroy them. Wood ashes and common salt, 
wet with water, will stop the cracks of a stove, and prevent 
the smoke from escaping. 

Cure for Small-Pox and Scarlet Fever. 

New York Tijmes 
Sulphate of zinc, one gr. ; foxglove (digitalis), one gr. ; half 
teaspoon of sugar; mix with two tablespoonfuls water. When 
thoroughly mixed add four ozs. of water. Take a spoonful 
every hour. Either disease will disappear in twelve hours. 
For a child smaller doses, according to age. A correspondent 
of the Stockton (Cal.) ^^^ra^cZ claims to have personally known of 
hundreds of cases of the successful use of this receipt for small- 
pox, and says that it will prevent or cure the disease though 
the pitting be filling. It is harmless if taken by a well person. 

For Roaches. 

Mrs. Mason. 
Boriix powder sprinkled plentifully around the kitchen 
closets will almost completely exterminate roaches. It is per- 
fectly harmless in case it should accidentally come in con 
tact with food. 

To Clean Marble. 

New York Times. 
Take two parts common soda, one part pulverized pumice- 
stone, one part finely-powdered chalk ; sift the mixture through 
a fine sieve and then mix with water; rub it thoroughly over 
the surface of the marble, and the stains will be removed ; 
then wash the marble over with soap and water. 



160 RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 



Earache. 

There is scarcely any ache to which children are subject so 
hard to bear and difficult to cure as the earache. But this 
remedy is said never to fail. Take a piece of cotton batting, 
p ut upon it a pinch of black pepper, gather it up and tie it, 
dip in sweet oil and insert into the ear. Put a flannel band- 
age over the head to keep it warm. It will give immediate 
relief. 



DINNER, LUNCH AND TEA. 161 



DINNER, LUNCH AND TEA. 



Remarks. 



Only a housekeeper can appreciate the annoyance of the ever- 
recurring query, " What shall we have for breakfast, dinner 
and tea? " The inventive genius of the household head is 
exercised in varying dishes for every meal ; in this and in other 
respects the intention has been to compile a work for practical 
use ; also giving hints for setting table, etc. The custom of 
having a waiter or waitress retire after the first wants are 
attended to at breakfast, lunch and tea insures privacy and 
sociality at those comfortable meals. Waiting at dinner is 
far ihe most important matter connected with a servant's duty, 
upon it depends not only the comfort of the host and hostess 
but that of the guests. What sooner will produce an ill-at- 
ease feeling than a nervous exchange of glances between 
hostess and servant ? Avoid it ! Laying a cloth is the first 
thing done; a baize placed underneath gives a richer and 
heavier look to the tablecloth ; that it may not present a 
tumbled appearance care is required in opening it. What 
more inducive to a good appetite than a prettily arranged 
table? Flowers add very materially to the beauty of. it, and 
when used as a center-piece is oftentimes surrounded by fancy 
dessert dishes. A plate, knife and fork to each person, a 
folded napkin on each plate, on this a piece t>f bread about a 
finger in length and one inch thick, glasses for water and 
wine — the former should be filled just before the guests enter 
the room. Fancy spoons placed at either end of the table; at 
the side of these, salt and pepper stands. Plates should be 
arranged for each course ; on dessert plate fold a fruit nap- 
kin, a finger bowl (on top of napkin) half full of water with 
a slice of lemon in it. Guests being announced, place soup 
tureen and soup plates in front of hostess; then follow the 
different courses. It is not essential to use the crumb-brush 
until after the course preceding dessert. Coffee is served 
either with or directly after dessert. The hostess gives the 
signal for retiring. 
6 



162 RELIABLE COOK BOOK. 



Breakfast Parties 

Vary but little from dinner-giving; silver service remains on 
table during entire meal. The fashionable time is between 
the hours of ten and twelve. 

Lunch Parties 

Are rapidly becoming formal affairs. Differ from dinner in so far 
as having meats and poultry already carved and placed on plat- 
ters garnished with lettuce leaves; entrees on china or glass 
shells. It is not incumbent to delay any meal for an invited 
guest longer than ten minutes. 



BILLS OF FARE. 



BREAKFAST (without invited guests). 

WINTER BREAKFAST. 

Chocolate — Tea — Coffee. 

Oatmeal Porridge — Rice Croquettes. 

^^eefsteak — Saratoga Potatoes. 

^ Fried Oysters — Omelette. 

Parker House Rolls — Corn Muffins. 

Griddle Cakes. 

SUMMER BREAKFAST. 

Melons — Peaches. 

Coffee — Tea — Cocoa. 

Boiled Rice — Hominy. 

Broiled Chicken — Stewed Potatoes. 

Lamb Chops — Corn Oysters. 

Pop Overs — Biscuit. 

Waffles. 



BILLS OP FARE. 163 



TEA. 

WINTER TEA. 

Coffee— Tea. 

Soda Biscuit. 

Veal Loaf— Lobster Salad— Raw Oysters. 

Brandy Peaches— Coffee Jelly — Cream. 

Cake. 

SUMMER TEA. 

Coffee— Tea. 

Pickled Salmon — Chicken Salad. 

Pressed Tongue. 

Tea Biscuit— Waffles. 

Berries — Cream — Cake. 

DINNER. 

"WINTER DINNER. 

Mullagatawny Soup. 

Turbot a la Creme. 

Roast Beef — Chicken Croquettes — Roast Turkey. 

Cranberry Sauce — Celery. 

Mashed Potatoes — Sweet Potatoes. 

Stewed Tomatoes — Macaroni. 

Boiled Onions. 

DESSERT. 

Chocolate Pudding. 

Mince Pie — Cheese, 

Charlotte Russe — Fruits. 

Nuts— Coffee. 

SUMMER DINNER. 

Vermicelli Soup, 

Scalloped Lobster or Salmon — Green Corn Pudding. 

Roast Lamb — Boiled Chicken — Baked Ham. 

Mint Sauce — Currant Jelly — Lettuce. 

Asparagus — Green Peas. 

Succotash — Mashed Potatoes. 

Scalloped Oysters. 

DESSERT. 

Lemon Pudding — German Toast. 

Cherry Pie — Cheese. 

Cream Glace — Wine Jelly. 

Ices — Fruit — Coffee. 



164 RELIAIJLE COOK BOOK. 



LUNCH PARTIES. 

WINTER LUNCH. 

Oyster Stew. 

Sliced Turkey (garnished with Parsley)— Qnail on Toast. 

Scalloped Oysters. 

Salad Egg — Celery— Stuffed Toniatoes. 

English Plum Pudding (Wine Sauce). 

Chocolate Cream — Vanilla Cream. 

Orange Ice. 

Fancy Cake — Chocolate. 

SUMMER LUNCH. 

Mock Bisquit. 
Cold Sliced Tongue — Jellied Chicken. 
Lobster Croquettes. 
Pickled Shad — Sardines (with Lemon Pigs). 
Sliced Tomatoes — Lettuce. 
Sponge Pudding — Lemon Pie. 
Ice Cream — Frozen Peaches. 
Fancy Cake — Coffee. 
Cut a slit underneath one end of a lemon; this represents the 
snout of a pig, two small cloves above for eyes, four matches 
for feet ; hold over sardines, squeeze the sides of lemon, the 
juice will ooze from mouth. 

SMALL EVENING COMPANY. 

Pickled Oysters. 

Lobster Salad — Chicken Salad. 

^ Ham Sandwiches — Tongue Sandwiches. 

Frui t — Creams — Ices. 

Jelly —Cake. 

Coffee — Lemonade. 

LARGE EVENING COMPANY. 

OYSTERS. 

Stewed — Pickled — Fried. 

Ham Sandwiches— Tongue Sandwiches, — Chicken Sandwiches. 

Boned Turkey — Chicken Salad — Lobster Salad. 

Charlotte Russe— Wine Jelly. 

Creams (in shapes of small birds). 

Creams and Ices, in forms of Bricks. 

Fancy Cakes — Bananas — Grapes — Oranges. 

Coffee — Lemonade. 



r\ 



y^ 



GERS 



) 



i JjIj 1 



J 



y^ 



T7ie JLeading 



CLOTHIERS. 



Boys' Clothing 



A. SrBCIJ^LTY. 



402 & m FULTON ST.. cor. Gallatin Place, Broollp. 



487 BROADWAY; cor. Brooflie Street, M Yorl 



E. R. Durkee & Co/s Salad Dressing. 

This is universally pronounced in the clubs, by connoisseurs and all who 
have used it, the most delicious mayouaise dressing ever put on the market. It 
is adapted to every variety of meat and vegetable salads, to raw tomatoes, cab- 
bage, pickled salmon, cold meats, &c , &c. It is prepared with extreme care ; 
all its ingredients are of the purest and best. It is cheaper than home-made 
dressings, and will keep good for years. 

E. R. Durkee & Co 's Select Spices. 

With T/ade-niark of the Gauntlet. 

Under this brand we put up, in tin cans of various sizes, absolutely pure 
Spices, which, being ground from the very choicest varieties, cannot possibly be 
excelled in strength or flavor. Those who want pure and fine-flavored spices 
should buy our brand of Select Spices. They are the cheapest, and will prove to 
be by far the most satisfactory. To avoid deception, buy them only in unopened 
cans or packets, and see that our trade-mark of the gauntlet and signature is on 

E. R. Durkee & Co.'s Baking Powder. 

The analysis of this article by a United States Government chemist, in 1876 
and 1877, showed that it contained a larger per centum of carbonic acid gas, and 
consequently greater leavening power, than any other powder presented for 
examination. It was pronoun«ed, in all essentials, the best, and the Government 
ordered it in preference to any other. In yi, h, and 1 lb. full- weight cans. 

E. R. Durkee & Co.'s Flavoring Extracts. 

Made from selected materials and with the greatest possible care to preserve 
the true fruit flavor, that they may really take the place of the fruit for which 
they are substituted. They are of great strength— a single t'^aspoonful being 
equal to half a bottle of some kinds. They contain no poisonous oils or acids, 
are perfectly pure, and uniform in quality. 

E, R. Durkee & Co.'s Pastry Spice. 

A combination of Spices for pies, custard, puddings, sweet sauces, hot 
drinks, &c. ; designed for those who either find it difficult to get the right pro- 
portions when several Spices are used, or inconvenient to keep on hand all those 
most suitable for the purpose. 

E. R. Durkee & Co.'s Golden Starch. . 

For Dark Prints, Mourning Goods, etc. 

Common laundry starch is insoluble in water, and it is well known that when 
very dark goods are starched with it they have a soiled and dirty appearance, and 
never look as well as at first. The Golden Starch is perfectly soluble in cold or 
hot water, and the darkest goods — even crape— when starched with it, look as 
bright and clear as when new. With it almost an3' desired degree of stiffness may 
be given to goods, and they will retain their stiffness much longer than when 
common starch is used. 

E. R. Durkee & Co.'s Laundry Blue. 

In powder, in pepper-box style. The intense coloring power of this bluing, 
its ready solubility in hard or soft water, the low price at which it is sold, its 
neat an! convenient shape, make it the cheapest and most desirable of all bluings. 

E. R. Durkee & Co.'s Sewing Machine Oil. 

Under our trade-mark of the gauntlet, we put up an oil refined and prepared 
from the best lubricator known, expressly for the purpose ; it never corrodes, 
gums, or heats, and will far outwear the oils usally sold. 

E. R. DURKEE &L CO.'S Manufactures 

Are sold nearly everywhere by dealers most particular in the quality of their 
goods. If your grocer cannot supply you, go elsewhere for them. 

PRINCIPAL OFFICE, 135, 137 & 139. WATER STREET, NEW YORK. 



DURYEAS' 

IMPROfEDCOEI STARCH, 

Is an entirely pure and delicate preparation, from the best 
varieties of Maize. It affords many delicate and 
nourishing dishes. The process of its man- 
ufacture is the latest and 
most Improved. 

DURYEAS' 



l0ii itar 



rn 



f 



IN SIX-POUND BOXES AND ONE-POUND PAPEES. 



Try it. Gives a beautiful white and glossy finish, besides iendei"s fabrics 
very durable. No other Starch so easily used, or so economical. 

Use it Once and You Will Use no Other, 

DUEYEAS' STARCH, 

In every instance of competition, has received tiie highest award. 

In addition to Medals many Diplomas have been received. The 
following are a few of the characterizing terms of award : 

At London. 1862, for quality " EXCEEDINGLY EXCELLENT." 

" Paris. 1867, for "PERFECTION OF PREPARATION." 

" Centennial, 1876, for "NOTABLE OR ABSOLUTE PURITY." 

Franklin Institute, Penn., "FOR BEING THE BEST 
KNOWN TO EXIST IN THE MARKET OF AMERICAN PRODUCTION." 

FOR SALE BY GROCERS GENERALLY. 
Be Sure " DURYEAS' " is on Every Package. 

Our new Recipe Book will be sent post-paid to any one 
sending us their address. 

General Depot, 29, 31 and 33 Park Place, New York. 




BORDEN'S 



ONDENSED 



Is applicable to all purposes for which other fresh milk is used, and 
for many purposes is superior. 




Four parts of water to one part Condensed Milk makes richer milk than the 
fluid milk ordinarily sold. 

Condensed to the standard suited to city use, it will remain sweet two or three 
times as long as common milk, with the same care. 



THE COMPANY CLAIMS THAT IT GIVES MORE REAL MILK FOR THE 

SAME AMOUNT OF MONEY THAN IS SOLD IN NEW 

YORK, BROOKLYN OR VICINITY. 



As a healthful diet for In'ants and Children, hundreds of the patrons of this Company 

have testified. 

Bordei^'s Preserved Milk, 

GAIL BORDEN EAGLE BRAND. 

Borden's Extract of Coffee. 

Prepared from the finest grades of coffee, combined with refined sugar and Borden's 

Condensed Milk. 

BORDEN'S PURE COCOA, 

In combination with Borden's Condensed Milk and Refined Sugar. 

Office, g8y loo, 102, 104 & 106 Sterling Place, 



The Excelsior Wringer, 

FOR STATIONARY TUBS. 




This Wringer possesses all the excellencies of any round 
tub machine, and in addition has a Patent Reversible 
Water Board for conducting the water into either division 
of the stationary tub desired, thus saving the time and la- 
bor of changing the Wringer from one partition of the tub 
to the other — a very important advantage, which belongs 
exclusively to the " Excelsior." 

Please send for an illustrated circular and price list to 

BAILEY WEINGING MACHINE CO., 

99 Cliambers St., New York. 



HECKERS' SUPERLATIVE SELF-RAISIN& FLOUR, 

Is constantly becoming more popular with those willing to pay for an article 
that will make tLe finest bread ever put upon a table, with unfailing certainty, 
if the few simple directions for baking be properly observed. 

A delicious article of food, a beautiful ornament for the table, it is very agree- 
able, light and nutritious. A superior article for puddings and jellies. 

0±' Special Impox'tance. 

Heckers' Self-Raising Griddle CakelFlour. 




Although it is only three years since this article was introduced to the public 
it has become as popular as the other well-known brands of Hecker's Self- 
Eaising Flour, which have been so extensively used for making Bread, Biscuit, 
Cakes, etc. , for the past twenty-seven years. "^3 

It is decidedly the cheapest and best preparation known for making Griddle 
Cakes, Wheat Cakes, or Pan Cakes, Muflaus, Fritters, etc., producing at a mo- 
ment's notice, by the addition only of cold water or milk, most delicious, light 
and wholesome Cakes, which, unlike those made with yeast, may be eaten while 
hot without detriment. 

• The Griddle Cake Flour is used by many in preference to Buckwheat. 

Recipe foe Griddle Cakes. — One and a half pounds of the Griddle Cake 
Flour, one piut of cold milk, and one pint of cold water— or all water maybe 
used. Have the griddle liot before you mix the batter. Mix the flour with 
two-thirds of the liquor, stir thoroughly, then add the balance. This is sufficient 
for about thirty-five ordinary sized Cakes. 

Put up for the convenience of families, hotels and restaurants, in 3 and 6 lb. 
packages, 24 ig lb. bags, barrels and half barrels, with all directions for use. 

HECKERS^ SELF-KAISING BUCKWHEAT, 

Will be found decidedly the cheapest, when the saving of time and trouble is 
con.sidered. It is always ready, always reliable, and perfectly healthy. Dys- 
peptics and persons that cannot eat Buckwheat Cakes made by the old process 
with yeast, can use the Self- liaising Buckwheat without detriment. 

No more " mixing Buckwheat over night," but in the morning, when the 
griddle is hot, to 3 pounds of 

Heckers' Self-Raising^ Buckwheat, 

add 5 pints of water or milk, or part each, and bake immediately. Keep the bat- 
ter in a cool place if not wanted for immediate use. This will produce seventy 
light and delicious Cakes, preferred by many to those made with yeast. 

Put up for the convenience of families, hotels and restaurants, in 3 and 6 lb. 
packages, 24 }^ lb. bags, barrels, half barrels, with full directions for use. 

CEO. V. HECKER & CO. 

203 oi3:ei^:e=ly- st., uste^tv ^^oi=li^. 



Baking Powder. 

For over fifteen years Retllxead's Baking Po-wder has been before 
the Brooklyn public, and has met with a continually increasing demand. lis 
superior quality gained for it a prize medal in competition with others, and its 
general excellence has merited a preference from all who have used it, as may be 
seen by the following gratuitous notice : 

" Redliead's Baking Po-wder has attained an extensive sale in some 
sections of Brooklyn, and many people would have no other." — Housekeeper's 
Companion. Editor's answer to the question, "Who makes the best Baking 
Powder? " 

ASK YOUR GROCER FOR IT. 

Manufactory, 280 Pearl Street^ New York. 



^hm fmltoiffi At^# ^-mm Mmwiketi 



¥1. S. CARLISLE, 



Wholesale and Eetail 



Tea il Coffee Dealer aBl Geaeral Grocer, 

493 FULTON ST., BROOKLYN, N. Y. 



Specialties i Teas, Coffees, Sugars and Flour. 

CATALOGUES 3IAILED FREE ON APPLICATION. 

Goods deUvered to any part of the City or Wharves or Railroad Depots in 
New York or Brooklyn, free of charge. 



HOUSE FURNISHING EMPORIUM 

SAfflUlL B, MASBA, 



China, Glass, Cutlery, 

WOODEN AND TIN WARES. 

Childreti*s Carriages. 

991 & 993 Fulton Street, Brooklyn. 



/^L' 



"imwim 






Artistic Furniture, 

FB0M MBDI^YAi ©fiSfSWS. 

Interior Decorations. 

HARDWOOD MANTLES, PIER AND MANTLE 

MIRRORS. 



ItfSit, Ifaaklp, I. I. 



CHARLES M. JACOBSON, 

Manufacturer, 
4.25 Fulton St., (near Pearl) BR.OOKLYN. 



11. 

Derby Hats, Soft Felt Hats, Opera Hats, 

Traveling Hats and Caps, 

AT POPULAR PRICES. 

HATS FOR YOUTHS, BOYS and CHILDREN. 

The Latest Styles. Fine Hats for Dress. 

Durable Hats for School; &c., &e, 
LOGKITT^S 

GOLDEN CANISfEE TEA WAREHODSES, 

Established 1852. 

Wholesale and Retail Dealers in 



Teas, Coffees k Fancj Groceries 



FULTON STREET, COR. ORANGE, 

559 FULTON STREET, 

14, 16 & 18 DE KALB AVENUE, 



185 MYRTLE AVENUE, 

DE KALB AVE. COR. NOSTRAND, 

89 ATLANTIC AVENUE. 



RANDEL, BAREMORE & CO. 



Diamonds 



Cor. IJaiden Lai]e & Nassau St., 



No. 29 MAIDEN LANE, ) 
& 58 NASSAU STREET, } 



No. 51a conduit STREET. 



JVi:W YORK. 
LO^DOM, W. 



CHAS. B. YALE. 



G. SELDEN YALE. 



SiPSON, HAIL. MILLER k CO., 



Maijufacturers of tlje Finest Quality 



\ 



ly V jjii i 



D 



ATE 




iLLJ 



{ 



Factories, WallingH, Conn. 



676 Broadway, 

NEW YORK, 



HOA^'ARD 

ft IRE JnSURANCE (^O. 

Of nSTE'W -Y-CDFLl^. 
CHARTERED 1825. 

Cas/i Capital, .... $^00,000. 

Office, 66 Wall Street, New York. 



SAMUEL T. SKIDMORE, Prest. 
CHARLES A. HULL, Sec'y. 



HENRY A. OAKLEY, Vice-Prest. 
RICHARD W. CLARK, Asst. Sec'y 



DAISY CREAM. 



1 1 P. 0. 




for Sale Ijy Irs 



4589. ^^mFjr clmDiwsts. 

TRA 

Certain ani Harniless Cure for all Stin Diseases. 

THE FOLLOWING FROM A BROOKLYN LADY. 

Brooklyn, Jan. 21st, 1877. 
For the sake of benefiting others, I consent to give my testimony in regard to 
" Daisy Cream." A physician of well acknowledged standing advised me to use 
your lotion, — he having known of several cases that had been cured by its use, other 
means having failed. At his suggestion, I bought it, and a few bottles have made 
my complexion perfectly clear. My entire face had been covered with a most 
repulsive eruption, my health was seriously affected, and great expense^ad been 
incurred for physicians' fees, amounting to hundreds of dollars. The irritating cause 
having been removed, my health is restored. 



ODRNEAY k BORNHAM, 




126 & 128 ATLANTIC ST. 



BROOKLYN. 



€. m. WEST 



9 



Successor to IDIOI^EIISrsOIsr c&: "WEST, 

251 & 253 Fulton Street, 

BROOKLYN. 

Dry Goods 

AT 3?OI?XJLA.Xi PK^ICEJ^. 



Goods marked down. Black Silks at astonishingly low prices. One invoice 
Guinet's Black Silks at $1.25 per yard— a great bargain. Headquarters for Black 
Cashmeres. Mourning Goods a specialty. 



J. GILDERSLEEVE, 



DEALER IN 



n 




lis. 




L/lli' 



L' 







354 Fulton St., cor. Red Hook Lane, 



BROOKLYN. 



A. & E. HOBBIITS, 

DEALERS IN 

POULTRY & GAME 



of all 'hinds, 



Nos. 125 & 127 FULTON COUNTRY MARKET. 



nsr:E:i-W" "^oi^k:. 



N. B.— Ships and Parties supplied at the shortest notice. 



STJLNnjLMD 



Wl INSDRANCE bOMPANY, 






Office, 62 Liberty Street, 

NEW YORK. 

Insurance Against Fire. 
SAFETY FUND POLICIES ISSUED. 



WM. M. St. JOHN, 

Vice-Pres't & Sec'y. 



WILLIAM CRIPPS, 

President. 



Ii\^tifki|de Co. of ^ew Yofk, 

C:?A;X^itA.l, - - - - J^200,000- 



ASSETS, JANUARY 1st, 1878. 

Cash on hand and in Bank, _ _ _ 

United States Bonds, nriarket value. 
Loans on Call, Good Stocks Collateral, 
Bonds and Mortgages on Briek Dwellings, 
BilJs ReeeivableYor Inland Prenaiums, 
Premiums in course of collection, 
ISew York Bank Stocks, market value. 



Liabilities, including Re-Insurance, 
Surplus over Capital and Liabilities, 



$ 16,S60.07 

268,700.00 

9,300.00 

77,400.00 

83S.OO 

10,390.06 

15,120.00 

$398,805.13 



$71,386.01 
$1^6,919.12 



ISAAC R. ST. JOHN. Pres't. A. R. FROTHINCHAM* Vice-Pres't. 
WM. R. MACDIARMID, Sec'y. 



Baker & Clark's 
PREMIUM HAM, 

THE WORLD'S BEST. 

This HAM excels all others. Cured with Granulated 
Sugar. Mild and of Delicious Flavor. Carefully Selected. 
Are put up in Attractive Style. 

These HAMS are recommended to every family as the 
choicest in the nnarket. Address, 

BAKER & CLARK, 

335 & 337 Greenwich St., N. Y. 



Oswego Baking Powder. 

Warranted strictly pure and healthy. Keeps good in any climate. 
Once tried always used. Full weight exclusive of can. Triple 
strength. Is invaluable where economy, health, and delicious cooking 
are appreciatad. It is perfectly white and pure. JManufactured by an 
entirely new process, and is as much superior to Baking Powder 
made after the old process as patent new process flours are to those 
made the old way. It is not subject to atmospheric influences ; will 
not lose its strength or become lumpy ; and when used according to 
directions, most satisfactory results are sure to follow. For sale by 
all first-class grocers. 

BAKER & CLARK, Agents, 
NE\V YORK. 



Hazelton Brothers, 

Manufacturers of 



M PIAIO-EORTES. 

These Pianos have always received the First Premium whenever they have 

been exhibited, for 

Elastx Touch, Singing (juality, Delicacy and Power of Tone. 

GREAT DURABILITY. 

WAREROOMS: 

34 & 36 University Place, bet. 10th & 11th Sts., 

NEW YOKIC. 



UPHOLSTERER, 

96 Orange St., near Fulton St., Brooklyn. 

Gold Band and Holland Shades and Fixtures, 

IN EVERY VARIETY, MADE TO ORDER, AT LOWEST PRICES. 
HAIR, HUSK, STRAW and SPRING BEDS. 

Moss, Tow, Excelsior and other MATTRESSES. 

LACE CURTAINS cleaned equal to new. OLD MAT- 
TRESSES re-pieked and nnade over equal to new. 
CARPETS re-fitted and laid, all at the 
MOST MODERATE PRICES. 



GROSSMAN & BERGEN, 

LOWEST fK^ICE, 

FINE BOOTS & SHOES. 

Complete Assortment for 

Gents, Boys, Ladies, Misses and Children, 

599 FULTON STEEET, 

Opposite Flatbush Ave., BROOKLYN. 

HEALTH FOOD COMPANY, 

EstaUished 187 4. 

INTRODUCERS OF 

Perfect Assimilative Food, 

FOR THE 

Presemtion of Healtti & tlie AlleyiatioQ & Cnre of Disease, 

Through the agency of simple and unmysterious preparations of 

Wheat, Barley, Oats, Eye, Oorn, Pruit, Meats, etc. 

Manufactured by new and superior processes, freed from all objectionable 
admixtures, and containing all those essential food constituents demanded for 
the relief of Disorders of the Digestive, Nervous, Biliary, Urinary and Circula- 
tory Systems that are now so prevalent and fatal in this conntry, the natural 
results of excessive mental and physical labor, accompanied by an unpardonable 
ignorance or carelessness in reference to all Hygienic principles. 

Brooklyn Office, No. 9 Clinton St., Brooklyn, N. Y. 

CIRCUILiAIlS FREE. 

HOME OFFICE, 74 FOURTH AVE., NEW YORK CITY. 
3 



S. O. BURNETT, 



DEA.LER IN 



HARDWAR 




^ ^ 



House-Furnishing Goods, 

FAlf^CY BASKETS, &c., 

No. 288 FULTON STREET, 



IBI^OOIiL^^IV. 



It consists of, first, a SCROLL-SAW, with Tilting- 
Table for inlaid wdro ; arms 18 inches in the clear; 
clamps which will hold saws of any length or 
width, and face tliem in four difierent directions; 
cutting lumber from one-sixteenth to one inch in 
thicline-s; speed, l,00iJ stmkes per minute. 

Second, a CIRCULAR SAW, two and one-half 
inches in diameter, which will cut lumlDer one- 
half inch and less; with an iron table, four by 
five inches. 

Third, a DRILLING ATTACHMENT, with six 
Stubs' Steel Drills, of various sizes, for wood or 
iron work. 

Fourth, an EMERY WHEEL, with wide and 
narrow rim. 

Filth, a TURNING-LATHE, with iron ways and 
rest, steel centres, and three best steel turning 
tools; length of ways, 15 inches; distance between 
centres, 9 inches; swing, 3 inches; length of slide- 
rest, 4>ii inches; number of revolutions per min- 
ute, 7,010. 

Also, with each machine, six Saw-blades, a 

Wrench, Screw-driver, extra Belt, and two sheets 

., of De.-i^ns, with a nice box for the small tools, 

h and a box for the wliole machine. It is taken 

W apart when shiiiped, and packed in a box, but the 

working parts are all left in place, and tlie frame 

is put togetlier agam by a single bolt. W^j 

Price for every tliini;; above named, 
$8; the same, vt'ithout the lathe and 
circular saw, $6. 
When desired, we furnish with the Lathe a very nice Drill-Chuck, for working metal, 
and a Tail-Stock, with a screw centre, for $2 extra. 

MILLEKS PALLS CO., 74 Chambers St., N. Y. 




SHELDON & WADSWORTH, 



ERS AND BROKE! 





No. 10 WALL STREET, 

Will give careful attention to the Purcliase and Sale of 

STOCKS, BONDS OR GOLD, 



on commission, making advances on same when desired. 



EDWARD MILLER & CO. 



B 



5 



No. 35 WARREN STREET, 



Cor. Church Street, 



NEW YORK. 




Paint Works : Horatio and Jane Streets, New York. 

ARTISTS' 



MATERIALS. 



F. 



& CO.. 



Oor* Fulton a.n«l WilliaiiB «tsi«, New ITork, 

manUVacturees of 
ARTISTS' OIL COLORS, IN TUBES; 

CANVAS, ACADEMY BOARDS, MILLBOARDS, AND 
OIL-SKETCHING PAPERS ; 

Fine Brushes for Oil and Water Color Painting. 

Varnishes, Water Color Liquids, Oils, Etc. 

Drawiiig Papers, Sketching Books and Blocks, Pencils, 

Mathematical Instruments, 

Charcoal and Crayon Drawing Materials, 

Illustrated Books on Art, Folding and Studio Easels, 
Drawing Boards, Studies, Manikins and Lay- 
Figures, Out-of-door Sketching Boxes. 
WINSOR & NEWTON'S 
CAKE AN» MOIST AVATER COLORS, 
Tube Colors, Canvas, etc. ; also, French and German 
Goods. 
SCULPTORS' TOOLS, MODELING WAX AND CLAY. 

PLASTER CASTS FOR MODELS. 
ANTIQUE POTTERY AND PORCELAIN TILES, 

with materials for Pottery and China Decoration. 
Fresco Desigus aud Colora, aud Brushes for Fresco 

aud Scenic rainting. 

WAX FLOWER SUPPLIES : COLORS, TOOLS, MOULDS 

AND BRUSHES. 

Manufacturers of WHITE LEAD, ZINO WHITE, 

COLORS and VARNISHES. 

Factories — Hoiatio and Jane streets. 



Fbed'k W. Devoe, James F. Drummond. Fred'k Saunders, Jr., J. 

THOS. HANSON, 98 Myrtle Ave., Brool 



PIII2E MEDAL, PAUIS MARITIME E1IHIBITI0N, 1875. 



Xi^SviJ'^ s'oof) 



FOR 



lIlMf S Ml IlfAHiS. 



1^ pre-eminently rich in albumeuoids and phosphates, and the starch 
which it contains is in a state readily assimilated by the infantile diges- 
tion. This desirable result is obtained by a judicious selection of farinas, 
and by very careful manipulation in the process of cooking. 

Neave's Food has received the high and unqualified approval of 
eminent medical men for many years past. Amongst those who recom- 
mend it are : Drs, Cameron, M. P., Hassall, Barker, Bartlett, etc., etc., 
and the late eminent Drs. Lankester, Euddock, and Letheby. 

Neave's Foo«i commands a ready sale where once introduced, for it 
is strongly recommended by mothers to the notice of their lady friends ; 
and infants often give it a preference, refusing other foods. As a nat- 
ural result the sale has extended rapidly, especially during the past 
three years, necessitating the erection of extensive premises, where the 
preparation is carried on under the personal supervision of Mr. Neave. 

Neavc's Food is sent in large quantities to the Colonies and to the 
United States. It is prepared with special reference to exportation. 

Neavti's Food is gold in tins and tinfoil packets, by chemists and 
storekeepers at home and abroad. 

For terms, apply to any wholesale or export house, or to the manu- 
facturers, 

JOSIAH R. HEAVE & CO., 

Fordingbridge, England. 



AGENT FOR THE STATES, 



No. 80 IRVING PLACE, near Fulton St., Brooklyn, N. Y. 




Particlar Attention Paid to Grooming. Clarences and Coaches To Let at All 
Hours. Wedding, Shopping and Visiting Ca'ls Pronnptly Attended To. 

C. E. EARL, Proprietor. 
BRANCH OFFICE— No. 3 Putnam Ave., near Fulton St. 






m% 






FURNISHING UNDERTAKER, 




3 PUTNAM AVE., opp. Fulton Street. 

FUNERALS ATTENDED TO IN FIRST-CLASS ORDER. 

SEXTON of Dr. Duryea's Classen Ave. Presbyterian^.Church. 



THE LlGHTl 
RUNNING 



DOMEiSTIC 



(Possesses all tke exoellenoies of all ot]:er 
Sewing J^aohines, without their defects. It 
ma'hes the cest stitoh, is most readily oj)erated, 
has the widest range. of work, does not fatigue, 
and is almost noiseless. Home Offioe, (Broad- 
way and lliih Street, JTew Yor'k. 



PAPER 



DOMESTIC 



(Retain their j) ovular ity and reputation as the 
BEST of patterns for ladies' wear. The 
styles are the most recent and elegant, and the 
excellent system^ cy which they are cut insures 
a -perfectly ftting garment. 




The IMost P2ema,i*kal>le curative reme- 
dies ever given to the public are the Centaur Liniments. 
They have already acquired a sale greater than that 
of any other Liniment, Ointment, Extract, Pain-Killer, 
Embrocation or Salve. A list of the ingredients accompanying each 
bottle. A pamphlet containing a history of the Centaurs, the discovery 
of these recipes, and several hundred testimonials of the marvelous 
results of the Liniments, from well-known physicians and public 
men, will be sent upon application. The Centaur Liniments are of 
two kinds : the White is for family use, delicate and pleasant ; the 
Yellow is for horses and animals. They always Subdue swellings and 
alleviate jDain. They heal scalds and burns without a scar. They 
cure Rheumatism, Neuralgia, Sciatica, Strains, Sprains, Stiff Joints, 
Bruises, Ulcers, Nervous Headache, Caked Breasts, Sore Nipples, etc. 
The White Liniment exterminates Pimples and removes Freckles. It 
extracts the poison from the stings and bites of insects and reptiles. 
As an external remedy for Bronchitis, Sore Throat, Quinsey, Croup 
and Mumps, its effects have never been equaled. The Yellow Centaur 
Liniment is a certain, quick and cheap remedy for Spavin, Sweeny, 
Scratches, Strains, Wounds, etc., upon horses and other animals. It 
is absolute death to Screw- Worms in sheep. It is worth its weight in 
gold to planters, farmers, liverymen and owners of animals. The 
Centaur Liniments are sold for 50 cents and $1.00, by every drug- 
gist in America. Full directions are around each bottle. The fifty 
cent and dollar bottles contain three times and eight times the 
quantity of the 25 cent trial bottles. Address 

THE CENTAUE COMPANY, 46 Ley Street, New York. 



Castoria, a substitute for Castor Oil, after the recipe of Dr. 
Samuel Pitcher, Hyannis, Mass., is the only preparation for 
babies and children suffering from Wind Colic, Stomach Ache, Teeth- 
ing, Loss of Sleep, Worms, etc., which does not contain Morphine or 
some kind of narcotic drug. Pitcher's Castoria neither gripes nor 
gags. It is as pleasant to take as honey, and is as harmless as farina. 
It assimilates the food in the stomach, and by causing natural diges- 
tion and evacuation, affords quiet to the child, and rest to the mother. 
It is warranted to contain neither mineral, morphine nor alcohol. The 
price is 35 cents, in large bottles, covered by full directions. It is sold 
by all druggists everywhere. 



AVILA & BARKER, 






ii< 



PAINTERS AND PAPER HANGERS, 



14:5 Fulton Street^ 



WM.\'^ BARKER. B RO O K L. Y N 



Window S5»liades. 



STEV^^ART & CO., 

Importers and Dealers iu 

CARPETING. 

Oil Cloth & Upholstery Goods, 

174 FULTON, AND 53, 56 & 57 HENRY 8TS, 



jBI^OCDKIZLj^Z'nNr. 



Druggets, Mattings, Eugs, Stair Rods, Shades, Mattresses, &c., 55C. 
FVRKITURE TAKEM OJV STORAGE. 

S. B. STEWART. L. V. D. HARDENBERGH. 



concave: cast-iron galvanized 

CHIMNEY TOP AND VENTILATOR, 

Warranted to Cure Sniohij Chhnneys. 

NO CURE! NO PAY! 

^Ve ofl'er our new Cast-Irou Chimney Top 
and Ventilator to the public, as the Cheap- 
est, most Efficient, Durable and Ornameu- 
tal Ventilator yet invented, and claim for 
it advantages over all others, 
AS FOLLOWS : 

1st. It is made entirely of Cast-Iron, and 

Galvanized. 
2ud. Costs less than a Sheet-Iron Top and 

Base. 
3rd. Durability guaranted. 
4th. Forms, unlike all others, its own base, 

saving time and expense. 
5th. .\ flue may vary from 8x8 to 12x12 in. 

and the same top will fit. 
6th. Is an ornament to any building. 
7th. If painted and sanded resembles a 

heavy brown stone cap. 
8th. No rain or moisture can enter the flue. 
0th. Is so constructed that outside currents 

of air increase the draft. 
10th. \o downward drafts possible, 
lltli. Protects the brick-work of the chim- 
ney. 
12th". The top of the Ventilator is easily 

removed to clean the flue. 
13th. Are made to cover from one to five 

flues, under one top. 
14th. AVhen one flue is in use the top is 

heated, which increases the draft of all. 
15th. As a Ventilator for Churches, Hotels, 

Schools, Breweries, Factories and Pri\ate 

Houses they are unsurpassed. 

The Following is Offeresl a>. a Saiiipic R«>fVi'eiice : 
MR. M. C. HULL. 100 Fourth Avenue, New York, Sept. 19th, 1877. 

Dear Sir : — The success of your Patent Cast-iron Chimnej- Top now in use on my house. No. 316 
Madison Avenue, is all that can be desired. 1 have tried several other kinds all to" no purpose, and 
I am agreeably surprised to find your Patent Top is a success. Please put fourteen more on same 
house, enough to cover every flue, at vour earliest convenience, and oblige. 

Yours, very respectfully, MALTBY' G. LANE. 




Fulton Street, near Flatbush Avenue, Brooklyn, 

AGENTS rOK LONG ISLAM). 









Sra & 374 Fulton. Street, Brooklyn, 
ARE SELLING 



YARD. 

Best White Piques 5|c. 

Beet Standard Prints 4ic. 

Beautiful Colored Silks 75c. 

Ex. Cashmere Silks (Blk.).$1.00 
Colored Cashmeres 14:|c. 



YARD. 

Bl'k F'ch Cashmeres 50c. worth 75c. 
2-But. Lisle Thr'd Gloves,25c." 60c. 
3-But. " " " 30c."C5c. 

•i-But. " " " 35c."70c. 



iF'oi^LTEi^L cSc t'P3:o:e=i:btj:f\j>t. 



N? 2 FRENCH ffOSOM. 




Sign ofthefl Gold Shirt. 
ITHAMAR DU BOIS, 

Filtfli Street, Broollp, 

FINE 



AND 



Men's Furnisher. 



JOSEPH O'BRIEN & CO. 

Importers, Manufacturers and Dealers in 

Dry Goods 

Carpets, Clothing, 
141 & 143, 151 to 159 ATLANTIC AVE., 



Joseph O'Brien, 
Julius Meyeb, 
W. E. Capen. 



BROOKLYN 



^/V. S. LISTER, 



DEALER IN 



7/ & 13 CONCORD STREET, 

NEAS rULTON STEEET, BROOKLYN. 



FIS'H, OYSTERS. VEGETABLES AND GAME, 

IN SEASON. 

Every article warranted of the choicest quality. 

MARKETING SENT TO ALL PARTS OF THE CITY. 



F. W. PFANNKUCHEN, 

Wholesale and Retail Dealer in 

|oreiiii aM |oiestic |riiits, 

238 & 242 FULTON ST, 

Cor. Clark, BROOKLYN, 



FAMILY FLOUR. 

S. VALENTINE'S SONS, 

169 & 171 Cherry St., 

EBtablkhed 1822. COR. MARKET SLIP, 

NEW YORK. 

Flour delivered in any part of Brooklyn or New York 
City free of charge. Special attention given to selecting 
the choicest qualities for family use. 



C. MOLLENHAGEN, 



^M Mn 




j^isriD 



Fartcy Cake Ba'k.ery, 

ICE CREAM AISTD ICES, 

Fancy Cream, Charlotte Hiisse, Jellies, Pyramids,|etc., 
No. 197 ATLANTIC AVENUE, 

Between Court and Clinton Streets, BROOKLYN. 

♦ ♦ « 

All orders attended to at shortest notice. 






lat, 139, 141 & 143 i^Ui^^oX gY., 



Sf^OOKI<YK. 



F, A. BALDWIN, E. PEARCE TAYLOR. WM, A. DAVIS. 




65E3SiiI.1< 



212 ^ 214 PULT0[J ST., coi^. PlNE^rpLE Sj., 



China, Crockery, Glassware, Lamps, eye., (fc. 



James Armstrong, 

Of the late firm 

ARMSTRONG & BLACKLIN, 

349 COURT STREET, near Union, 
:BiF!.ooK:ij"2"asr. 

Having had twenty-three years' experience in all branches of the trade, 
offers his services to householders and builders. 

SANITARY PLUMBING A SPECIALTY. 

CONFECTIONERY 



AND 



LAB IE 8' 8 A LOOM, 
Cor. Fulton & Clinton Streets, Brooklyn. 

Wedding, Dinner, and Evening Parties furnished entire with Silver, 
China, Bridal and Fancy Cakes ; also, Ice Cream, Ices, Charlotte de 
Bussc, Jelly, etc., in every variety. 

s.A.i_iOOiNr 

OjDoia TJicLt±'l IDviEi<:a.3alglat. 



ASK YOUR GROCER FOR 



000000000000000000000000000000000000000 
000000000000000000000000000000000000000 



00 

00 H H II GGG GGG II NN N 

00 H H II G G G G II NN N 

00 HHHH II G G II N N N 

00 H H II G GG G GG II N N N 

II II 



s^^^s i," 



'sss 



00 H 

00 

00 ' 

00 

00 

00 

00 

00 

00 



GGG GGG II N NN 
GERMAN LAUNDRY 



'SSS 



qSSSSq 



'ssss 



'ssss 



0000 

o o 
o o 
o o 

0000 



A 

AA 

A A 

AAAA 



PPPP 
P P 
PPPP 
P 



A 



A P 



00 
00 
00 
00 
00 
00 
00 
00 
00 
OO 
00 
00 
00 
00 



000000000000000000000000000000000000000 

ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo 



THE BEST IN USE. 



ACKER, MERRALL & 




m 



IMPORTERS OF 



Jfine 'iiines and 




lavana ^.igars, 

DEALERS IN 

Nos. 130 & 132 CHAMBERS ST., 

And Cor. Broadway and Jf2d St., 



39 RUE DE LAFAYETTE, PARIS. 




1840. 



Thirty-eight Years Experience. 



1878. 




C2^ 13 H. XJ C3- C31- 1 S T,^^ 

CLdiSSOK, CO'R. OF G^EEKE ^VEXlfE, SfiOOKLYX. 

Only Articles of FIRST QUAI.ITY Sold or Dispensed. 

Physicians' Prescriptions and Family Recipes a Specialty. 
A Great Variety of Goods pertaining to the Toilet and Nursery. 

Tooth, Hair, Nail and Flesh Brushes, 

Dressing and Ivory Fine Combs and Rubber Goods, 

Whitman's Fine Confectionery. 
The Purest and Best Foreign Brandies and Wines. 

BourLon and other Whiskies, California and other native Wines, Scotch Ale, London Porter, 
Natural and Artificial Mineral Waters of all kinds, in Siphons and Bottles. 
Sparkling and Cold Soda Water, with Choice Fruit and Cream Syrups. 

HOlVTHJOFATHia BOOKS J^NID M:fiJI>ICINES, 

TINCTURES, TRITURA TIONS, SUGAR OF MILK, PELLETS, DILUTIONS, a^c. 
Also, "Humphreys' Homeopathic Specifics" and Witch-Hazel. 





' f'OR pHAPPED J^ANDS, ^ACE, AND J.IPS. 

FROSTENA is most deliciously perfumed, contains no oil or grease, and 
will not soil the clothes. Frostena makes the face and hands soft. Gentle- 
men should use it after shaving. Frostena re??ioves Tan and Sunburn. 



KCKLER, Printer, 35 Kulton St., N. Y. 





For Cleaning' and Polisliing 

SLlvei- ^LcttedL ^ NicJ^el^ Lett eel WcLi-e. 

Prepared expressly for and Warranted Pure "by 

Joseph G. Underhill, 
mmAfft, M. f. 



In offering this article to the public, I do not claim it to be a new dis- 
covery, but simply what it is represented *to be, viz : 

A Pure Silver Whiting, 

free from grit or any impurity and capable of imparting a finer,, more brilliant 
and permanent lustre, than any article ever offered for the cleaning of Silver 
or Plated Ware, 

The vast superiority of a pure quality of Silver Whiting over all other 
preparations in the market for cleaning and polishing Silver and Plated 
goods has always been known ; but in many instances the public has been 
induced by high sounding or foreign names to use chemically prepared 
Poisonous Compounds, unfit, to say the least, if not dangerous for family 

use. 

PRICE, lO CENTS A PACKAGE. 



-»> — ♦ — *4 



SILVER WHITING will be found superior to Soap for Cleaning all kinds 

of Glassware. 



Mrs. Disb^ows 



A Soothing Cordial for 



.^ 



Jnfants and (qhildren (Seething. 



A safe and pleasant medicine for infants and children teething, and for 
all diseases incident to the infantile system; and is a SPEEDY CURE FOR 
Cholic, Cramps, and Wixdy Pains. It as of excellent use to children that 
are of a restless and fretful habit ; and to those who are greatly troubled with 
Griming, Vomiting, or Looseness, a few doses of the cordial will give 
immediate ease. CHILDREN CUTTING THEIR TEETH HARD, and 
thereby suffering intense pain, may be considerably relieved by applying a 
small portion of the Anisett to the finger, and rubbing the gums gently for 
a short time. The collection of wind in the stomach often causes and gives 
rise to the most intense and excruciating pain, which a timely dose of the 
Anisett will remove almost immediately. 

Mothers ! this Anisett will give you rest and make your children cheer- 
ful and happy. Don't let them cry for the want of it. 

retailed by 

Price, Twenty-five Cents. 



fe^ 



J^ttl|j||alf of Sroii, 

(COPPERAS.) 

For use as a disinfectant, dissolve 
one pound in a gallon of water. A 
pint of solution should l)e poured 
into the water-closet pans night and 
morning. 
In Packages with full Directions. 
PRICE, 10 CENTS. 



QUII,I,SY, 

or 

iOiiy flgf SJiC 



This Bark is well adapteJ to the 
cleansing of soiled Silks and other 
fabrics, the colors or gloss of which 
are destroyed by soaps. It is also 
much used in the tropics as a wash for 
the hair and skin. 
In Packages with full Directions. 
PRICE, 10 CENTS. 




The Cosmetic qualities of this exquisite Soap are such, that by its constant 
use not only are chaps prevented, but all roughness and excoriations of the 
Skin are entirely removed, rendering it an indispensable requisite to the toilet 
of Ladies, and those of tender skin. 

^^** Mothers should use it for their Infants.,^^ 




THE ONLY CHEMICALLY PURE BORAX OFFERED FOR SALE. 

It may be useful to some of our readers to learn that refined borax is now 
generally substituted for soda, as a washing powder, in the proportion of a 
large handful to about ten gallons of boiling water ; thus saving half the 
usual quantity of soap employed. All large washing establishments adopt 
this method, and it is used extensively in Holland and Belgium, where the 
laundresses are famous for the beautiful whiteness of their linen. For laces 
and cambrics an extra quantity of the powder is used, and for crinolines (re- 
quired to be made very stiff) a strong solution is necessary. Borax being a 
neutral salt does not in the slightest degree injure the linen ; its effect is to 
soften the hardest water ; and, therefore, it should be kept on every toilette 
table. To the taste it is rather sweet, is used for cleansing the hair, is an ex- 
cellent dentrifice, and in hot countries^is used in combination with tartaric 
acid and bicarbonate of soda, as a cooling beverage. Good tea cannot be 
made with hard water ; all water may be made soft by adding a teaspoonful of 
borax powder to an ordinary sized kettle of water, in which it should boil. 
The saving in the quantity of tea will be, at least, one-fifth. To give to black 
tea the flavor of green tea add a single leaf from the black currant tree. • 



ARE YOU USING 

POISONOUS OR ADULTERATED 

BAKING POWDER? 

-^ 

In view of the immense amount of adulterated baking 
powders now sold all over the country, we call the atten- 
tion of consumers to a few facts that may enable them to 
judge for themselves. 

SHORT WEIGHT BAKING POWDERS 

are usually adulterated — the heavier true materials 
being taken out and replaced by some cheap, bulky 
adulterant to fill the cans, thus giving the consumer 
bulk instead of weight and purity. 

POISONOUS BAKING POWDERS. 

These are usually made from Alum, Phosphates, 
Lime, and other substitutes, instead of pure Grape 
Cream of Tartar. These powders are usually caked and 
lumpy, but it requires a chemical analysis to detect 
their injuriousness ; they are usually sold loose or in 
bulk, and not in cans under label and trade-mark of a 
responsible manufacturer. 

^^W^ ^^ is i^ot safe to ]nirchase any baking powder 
loose or in bulk. 

CAKED OR LUMPY BAKING POWDERS. 

A powder that is found to be caked, may at once be 
considered defective — they may be composed of substi- 
tutes or poisonous adulterants, such as are usually em- 
ployed in the short weight baking powders — at any rate 
they are dangerous to use, and should in all cases be re- 
turned to the grocer^ and not allowed to go into the kitchen. 

The Royal Baking Powder has been before the 
public nearly 20 years, and not a single pound of it 
has ever been known to cake, except through exposure 
to water in shipment, or some unusual damage not 
within the power of the manufacturer to prevent. 

The Royal Powder is made of absolutely pure ma- 
terials, and may be relied upon for purity, strength, 
and wholesomeness. Sold by the best Grocers. 
3 



BLANCHARD 



Concentrated 



BLOOD & NERVE 




n 



yj 



OR 



■X^oi^ici ivxttket of Wl^eat. 



A LIQUID FOOD, 



Which INVIGORATES and SUSTAINS witliout stimiilatiiig. It contains, in 
every quart, the vital nutritfvp elements of a bushel ot wheat, the Brain build- 
ing elements of which are, in this preparation, concentrated so that for every 
disease where Nervous debility is present (and this is the cause of most chronic 
diseases) this article of Food is a sure and permanent cure. 

Having the Vital Nutritive properties of the Wheat, we call it Food, as it 
really is a FOOD TONIC; it feeds and vitalizes the Nervous tisKicC, and regulates 
the digestive organs. By its assimilable properties it is readily absorbed into 
the circulation, and at once invigorates the imjiaii-pd faculties. 

Every disease associated with an impovfirishep state of the Blood and 
general nervous prostration, will receive from this preparation an immediate 
and permanent benefit. 

All cases of Brain Waste are restored ; Sleeplessness overcome; in fact 
the whole nervous system re-invigorated and restored. 

This Food is adapted to the wants of young or old, male or female; it cnres 
because it is a natural remedy, and has no drug element, being purely and 
Bimply a Wheat Tonic. 



Sold hy authorized Agents and' Drngdists generally. 

BLANCHARD FOOD CURE CO., 

27 Union Square, iV. Y. 



3J:rs. lizzie: ©. IITJBI5AIX13, Agent, 

284 Fulton Street, Brooklyn. 



Testimonials of leadin.:; physicians of this city furnished on application. 
Circulars sent free. Lady Physicians in attendance. 

Having used the " Blanchard Food " in my family, and finding it all that it 
is represented to be, I take pleasure in recommending it. 

Mbs. Merwin, First Directress of the " Home," 




WATERS' ORCHESTRION chime ORGANS 

are the most beautiful in style and perfect 
in tone ever made. Having the celebrated 
Concerto stop^which is a fine imitation of the 
Human Voice, and two and a half Oct- 
aves of bells tuned in perfect harmony 
with the reeds, their effect is mugical 
and electrifying. WiVTKRS' CLARIDJVA, 
ORCHESTRAL. BKL.L., COWCERTO,VES-i 
PER, CEKTEIVIVIAL. Chimes, CHAPEl., 
FAVORITE, SOUVENIR and BOUOOIU 
ORGAiVSj in Unique French Cases com- 
bine PURITY of VOICING with great vol- 
ume of tone; suitable for PARLOR or 
CHURCH. 

WATERS' PIANOS, ^.^ri;°i.l?,"^S'^^ 

ARE THE UESr MADE. The Tone, Tt/uch, AV'^orkmanship^ 
and Durability Unsurpassed. Warranted for SIX YEARS. 

PRICKS EX TREMEL.Y LOW for cash. Monthly Installments 
received . Instruments to let until paid for as per contract. 
A Liberal Discount to Teachers, Ministers, Churches, Schools, Lodgres, etc 
AGENTS WANTED. Illustrated Catalogues Mailed, ^i^econdo 
hand Pianos and Organs at GREAT BARGAINS, HORACE 
WATERS <St SONS, Manufacturers and Dealers, 40 E. i4th St. 

It is a question often aisked '"Hovr is it that HORACE W^ATERS 
«Si SON"* have attained the Front Rank ^vhile so many othei* 
houses are at a stand still 1 " In ans^ver to this we would say 
that during our business experience of over '45 years, w^e have 
given our customers in every instance «he value of their mon- 
ey. Call and see us before purchasing an ORGAN or PIANO 
HORACE WATERS «& ?^O\S,40 E. I4:th St., W. of Broadway, N.v! 



CONSUftlPTION, Weak Lungs, Throat Diseases, General Debility, 
Dyspepsia or Indigestion, Scrofulous Affections, and all Diseases 
caused by an Impaired Vigor of the Brain, Loss of Nervous Power and 
Energy, or Poverty of the Blood, speedily and radically cured, by 

WiBCliester'sHFBfliiliflsiteofLieiiSola. 

Established 20 Years, 

Has performed most wonderful cures, and accomplished results which 
no other remedy, preparation or treatment has ever equaled or even 
approached. TRY IT ! 

I^'i-ioes, SI £^i:lc3. S2 :p)Oi^ I^ottlo. 
Prepared only by 

WINCHESTER & CO., Chemists, 

Sold by Druggists. No. 36 JOHN STREET, NEW YORK, 







WHY, WHATACHANGE! I have my, 
COMPLEXION OF SEVENTEEN 



BLOOMOF/ 

For removing Tan, Freckles, Blemishes, and Imparting Beauty and 

Freshness to the Complezion, Clearness, Deftness and 

Smoothness to the Skin. 

Read the Testimonial from Signora Adelaide Ristori. 

Fifth Aremie Hotel, New York, 1874. 
Mr. Geo. W. Laird:— \ have received and used, with great pleasure 
and delight, the "BLOOM OF YOUTH," and find It superior to any 
Cosmetin or Toilet Preparation in Europe. It imparts to the complexion 
beautv and brilliancy. With manv thanks. 

Yours, with great esteem, SIGNORA RISTORI. 

The " Bloom of Youth '" has heen iu use nearly twenty years, 
and has been used by over a million of ladies, includini^ the 
opera singers, actresses and professional ladies generally, and 
always gives the utmost satisfaction. The proprietor could pub- 
lish a book of testimonials, but secrecy forbids. 

This delightful preparation has been chemically analyzed by 
tl'.e Board of Health, and declared harmless and in no way in- 
jurious to tlie skin or liealth. 

Beware of Counterfeits. The genuine has the United 
States Internal Revenue Stamp eygraved on the front label, 
and the name, G. W. LAIRD, blown in the glass on the back of 
each bottle. For sale by all Druggists everywhere in the United 
States and Canada. 



Depot, 83 John Street, New York. 



YOU SEE IN OUR PROFESSION WE HAVE TO USE SOME- 
THING, AND THIS PREPARATION I CONSIDER T-O YOU DOWE 0W& ALQNGLEASt 
THE BEST FOR THE COMPLEXION. ZZJZZ LUSMGLtASI 

OF 1EDIITH ARO BEAUTY AND 

YDU Oa WETHANMLON 
OUR KNEES 




iJMRD's 
BLOOM 

OUTH 




WECHSLER. ABRAHAM & CO. 

IMPORTERS AND DEALERS IN 

Dry Goods 

2JU 2U Hta SI, uJ 2« * M fcliiijlijii St, 

BROOKLYN. 

S. YOUNG'S POPULAR STORE, 

349 Myrtle Avenue, near Adelphi, 

Sole Importer of the Celebrated ''Carrie" Kid, 

PRICE, $1.19. 

Mamifactiirer of Ladies' and Infants' lliislin Onlfils and Corsets. 

IMMENSE STOCK OF HOSIERY, EMBROIDERIES AND LACES, 

We take pleasure m inviting you to an inspection of a fine line 
of the very popular English and Other Styles of Wall Papers 
and Inferior Decorations, comprising Fillinffs, Dados, 
Friezes, Borders, Mouldings, etc, 'J'hese goods cannot be 
excelled for richness of design or harmony of coloring. 

In our Upholstery Department will be found a Complete 
Assortment of Lace Curtains, Fui^niture Coverings, 
Window Shades, Fier and Mantle Mirrors, Pole Cor- 
nices, Cretonnes, Tassels, Fringes, Gimps, etc., etc, 

W. & H. MUMFORr), 

N. E.— Agents far the Long Island Lacs Curtain Bleachery. 390 & 392 FULTON ST. 
NOTED FOR QUAI^ITY AND CI^KANUN ESS. 



•£F GBNUMB COCk 

FOR 



In purchasing ask for " SCHEPP'S " COCOANUT, and see that the package has a 
fresh appearance. A trial will prove its merits. 



LYMAN A. GILL. PRIOR F. PURDY. 

GILL & PURDY, 
d^f pet Wcif elpu^e, 

257 FULTON ST., 

Opposite. Clinton St., BROOKLYN, N. Y. 

STANDASD MAKES OF OARPETINGS. 

The tendency among merchants and manufacturers to meet the de- 
mand for lower prices has resulted in the ottering, by not a few of the 
cirpet dealers, of large lines of carpetings at apparently low prices, 
which so far as durability is considered, are almost worthless. These 
goods are sold upon the manufacturer's reputation earned in better times, 
but who have now reduced the quality rather than be content with small 
profits. Messrs. Gill & Pukdy, Carpet Warehouse, 257 Fulton St., opp. 
Chnton, late Foster Bros., offer those of manufacturers only who have 
maintained the standard of their goods. 



KNICKERBOCKER 

I(ife Ii)^ui^kt^de Coiupkiiy^ 

239 BROADWAY, N. Y. 

CHARTERED IN 1853. 
JOHN A. NICHOLS, President. 



AccwmtiJated Assets^ over - - $6^000^000.00 

Surplus, over _ . » 500,000,00 

EVERY DESIRABLE FORM OF POLICY ISSUED. 

SAYINGS BANK POLICIES A SPECIALTY. 

<» _ 

GEO. F, SNIFFEN, Secretary. CHAS. M, HIBBARD, Actuary. 

E. W, DERBY, M.D., Medical Examiner. HENRY W.JOHNSON, Counsel. 

JOHN F. NICHOLS, Cashier. 



GROCERIES. 



All goods leaving our name are guar- 
anteed to de of good guality, and dealers 
are autliorized to refund fhe puronase jirioe 
in any case where oonsum-ers have oause for 
dissatisfaction. LooJo for the nair^e, 

THURBERS. 

ESTABLISHED 1844. 

D.LBlIClEEHO. 

^'-. \l k ii Fulton Street, 
BROOKLYN 

FiBB Crackers and Biscnils, 

EVERY VAUIETY FOR FAMILY USB. 

Wholesale and Retail Hepot, 42 k 44 Fulton St. 

Sold 1)1/ Grocers and dealers universally. 
FINE GRADES OF FAMILY FLOUR. 




William Berrfs 




(ESTABLISHED 1848.) 



CARPETING 



526 FULTON STREET, 



E. D. BERRI, 
WM. BERRI. 



BROOKLYN. 



REDERICK 




OESER k CO. 



Fulton, Tillarj and v__^/ Washington Streets, 
OUK LEADING MEROHANTS. 

^rv ^oods, Fancy O-oodo, 

LADIES' AND CHILDREN'S 

Fine Boots AND Shoes. 



BEST QUALITIES ! LOWEST PRICES ! 






DJ,(;ii 

MANUFACTURING 



M 



STATIONEES. 



BlanU Receipts, 
Drafts, Notes, 
BroKers' Pads, 
BlanK Bool[s, 
Bill and Receipt 
Bodies, 

Letter Books, 
etc., etc, 

Bill anil Legal 
Cap. 




Pens, Pencils, 
Pen- racks. Inn 
stands, and all 
MsoIInliand 
Wntmg Flnlds. 

Mnciiage in all 
i Sizes. 
Elastic Bands. 

Letter and Note 
Papers. 



BLANK Books 

OF ANT PATTEEN 

Manufactured to Order. 

BILL HEADS, NOTE HEADS, AND LETTER HEADS, 

CHECK BOOKS, BANK PASS BOOKS, DRAFT BOOKS. 
101 CHAMBERS STREET, NEW YORK. 



The Vegetable Pain Destroyer and Invaluable Family Remedy. 

FOR BURNS AND SCALDS IT IS WITHOUT AN EOUAL. 

Healing. Comforting, It Cures all Inflammatory Diseases. 




P A TTTIOM Some unscrupulous trades- 
UiiUllUrli men, desirous ol making a 
large profit, are in the habit of selling crude 
imilations of POND'S EXTRACT, repre- 
senting them as being made from Witch 
Hazel, and the same as our Remedy. The 
appearance and odor being fairly counterfeit- 
ed they are enabled to do this more readily. 
Beware of all such impositions. Ask f. r 
POND'S EXTRACT. Take no other. Be 
sure the name 

Pond's Extract 

is blown in the bottle, and our trade-mark 
is on surroundmg wrapper. 

FOR SALE BY ALL DRUGGISTS. 

Frice, 50 Cents for small, $1.00 for me- 
dium and $1.75 for large size. 

List of Specialties adapted to Sensitive 
cntdpecnliar Cases, aitd largely containing 
the essential properties of the Extract. 

I'umi'8 Extract Toilet Cream is Pond's 
Extract in a condensed form, combined with 
other ingredients of rare and absolute purity. 
Price, $1.00 per bottle. 
Pond's Kxtract Ueiilil'rice, or 'Joulb 
Wash. — Delightful as a dentifrice, or com- 
bined with three parts water as a month 
wash, will strengthen tender gums and stop 
all bleeding therelrom. trice, 60c. per hot. 
Pond's Kxtracl Lip Salve. — Price, •-?5c. 
per box. 

Poud's Kxlract So.ip. — Peculiarly fresh- 
ening to the complexion, and invigcratng to 
the person. Price, per box, 3 cakes, 50c. 

Pond's Kxlract UintnienI contains all the 
healing qualities of Pond's Extract. 

Price, 60c. 

Pond's Extract Catarrh Preparation for 

seriouslr sensitive and obstinate cases. It is pleasant, cooling and soothing in its application, and con- 
tains in'tUeir lull strength, all the healing properties oi the Extract. Price 75c. 
Pond's Extract Plasters affords quick relief from pain, and is very strengtheniLg. Price, 15c. 
Pond's Extract Vasal Syringe tor use in Catarrh, Ac. Price, 26c. 
Inhaler, superior in quality. Price, $1.00. 

Til F01B llTSACf CO., Iiw Tsfk mi Imim. 

For use of other diseases, and further directions, consult POND'S EXTRACT 
BOOK, supplied by any Druggist gratis. 



lissrsjiMat 



The above Trade-DIark is on (he surrounding wrap 
per of bottle, none genuine without il. 



WEDDING STATIONERY, 



ID- I^- OirjXDE:E=LsrjEE3-\rE c^ <:Dc:>., 

101 CHAMBERS STREET, NEW YORK. 



^1 



