LIBRARY OF CONGRESS. 

Tims . 

shoif.J-l 7 74 

rNITED STATES OF AMERICA. 



Sood'^ 



dock 



Sook 






C. 1. HOOD & CO., 

APOTHECARIES, - - - BARRISTERS' HALL 

LOWELL, MASS. 



ONE WORD IN RELATION TO 

HOOD'S Sarsaparilla, 

And its proper place in the Confidence of the Public. 



We are aware that there is a justifiable distrust of remedies put 
up in patent medicine style, owing to the worthlessness of a large 
majority of such medicines. Frequent calls over our counter for a 
reliable BLOOD PURIFIER, alterative, tonic and restorative med- 
icine, was the motive power which set us to work to compound an 
article which we could use in our own family, among our friends, 
and could conscientiously advise our customers to use whom we 
meet face to face. So eminently successful has HOOD'S SARSA- 
PARILLA been, thatoiu- most worthy citizens furnish us with tes- 
timonials of cures effected which seem miraculous, and would 
hardly be believed were it. not for the abundance of proof and its 
unquestionable reliability. 

A Trial Bottle, for 50 Cents, 

Will convince the most skeptical of tlie real merit of HOOD'S SAR- 
SAPARILLA, and enables everybody to test its wonderful power 
in restoring and invigorating the whole system, in renovating and 
enriching the blood, in giving an appetite and tone to the stomach, 
and in eradicating and curing all diseases arising from impurities 
in the blood. 



MAYOR'S OFFICE, ) 

Lowell, Massachusetts, j 

We are personally acquainted with C. I. Hood & Co., and regard 
them as worthy the confidence of the public. 

CHAS. A. STOTT, Mayor. 
W. H. CLEMENCE, Chief of Police. 
October, 1877. 

PREPARED ONLY BY 

€, I. Hood & Co., Apothecaries, 

Barristers' Hall, Lowell, Mass. 



HOOD^S 



Cook ^^ ook. 






These receipts inclutlc those published in Mrs. Mayor Stott's famous 
" Practical Cook Book," she having kindly allowed us to use them. 
Other valuable ones have been added, together with much useful 
matter. The hlanlc pages and index will commend themselves 
to every one, as new receipts can be added and all be easily 
found, thus making Hood's Cook Book the most desirable one 
that has ever been given away. Given to every housekeeper on 
application at our store, or sent on receipt of address. 



COMPLIMENTS OF 
I. HOOD &; CO., J«k.potlTieoa,i-ies, 

Barristers' Hall, Lowell, Mass. 



infi 



TkOlijectofHooi's Cook Bool x^^'. 



^^""^ 



In the publishing of this book we desire to accomplish 
two things. First, to put into the hands of housekeepers 
receipts of such value that they will be in constant use. 
Second, to place in every family the unquestionable proof 
of the real value of Hood's Sarsaparilla. It will be noticed 
that this proof comes from the worthiest citizens in our 
immediate vicinity. Any one wishing to confer with them 
in regard to the wonderful eflects of Hood's Sarsaparilla, 
can do so. 

SCROFULOUS HUMORS of the worst possible types, 
whose cure by Hood's Sarsaparilla seem hardly less than 
miracles, will be found on pages 9, 13, 16, 23, 38, GO. 
Some other cures noted are — 

SALT RHEUM, page 48, 59. 

APPETITE SHARPENED, pages 16, 25. 

LOSS OF FLESH, page 25. 

DEBILITY, pages 9, 25, 41, 44. 

INDIGESTION, page 44. 

SORE NOSE, page 44. 

SORE ON THE LEG, page 54. 

CANCEROUS HUMOR, page oS. 

SCROFULOUS BUNCH IX THE NECK, page 38. 

If your famil}'- druggist does not keep Hood's Sarsapa- 
rilla, he will gladly get it for you ; if not we will send it to 
you on receipt of price. We guarantee satisfaction every 
time, and our agents are authorized to do the same. 
Very truly, your obti servants, 

O. X. XXOOXD C&; OO., 

Lowell, ]Ma.ss. 



IVe will send Hood'* a Cook Booh to nny address, if distinctly written. 
If you can not obtain our preparations at any store in your toion we 
will send them to you, express paid, on receipt of retail price. 

C. i. HOOD k CO., Apothecaries, Lowell, Mass. 



RECEIPTS 



SOUPS. 



Of all the operations of cookery, none is more impor- 
tant, nor usually more negligently executed, than the pre- 
paration of soups. Setting aside the consideration of 
economy, to begin dinner with a light soup is decidedly' 
wholesome, and serves to divert tlie danger of eating too 
heavily of solid meat; for it is an ernn- lor any one to 

'fancy that when he has eaten heartily of roast beef only, 
he has necessarily made a wholesome dinner. 
The richest soups are made hy boiling several kinds of 

"meat together, as beef, mutton and \eal. 

-Hood's Tooth Powder whitens the teeth. 

BEEF SOUP STOCK. 

Take a shank of beef and cut the meat in line pieces; 
"take out the marrow and with a piece of butter put into 
;a kettle, put over the fire and when hot add the meat and 
cook till brown, then add the bones and suflicient hot 
water ,to cover, boil four hours, strain and set away to 

'COOl. 

BEEF SOUP. 

Take sufliicient soup stock, boil onion, carrot, potatoes 
and vegetables to suit taste, in a little water, and strain 
iinto the soup stock ; add pepper, salt, etc., to suit. 

TOMATO SOUP. 

iPut three pints -of .tomatoes, stewed, strained and 
•sweetened, to two guarts of beef stock, add an oMon, 
• salt and pepper. 

Incest 25 cents in a bottle of Hood's Tooth Powder. 



PEA SOUP. 

Take a pint of split peas, aud when carefully picked 
over anrl washed, put them into a pint of water, soak in 
morning-, three hours before dinner put them into a pot 
witli a quart more water and about half a pound of pork 
(less if you wish tlie soup not very rich), boil it steadily 
and be careful to stir it often lest it should burn. It may 
need more water before dinner and can be made of what- 
CA^'er thickness you prefer. If you prefer to have the soup 
without pork, iisc the liquor in which the beef or other 
fresh meat has been boiled instead of water and use no 
pork. 



HOOD'S 

SAPONACEOUS TOOTH POWDER 

Has proved itself the most efficient dentifrice for pre- 
serving, cleansing and beautifying the teeth, hardening 
the gums, and giving to them a beautiful, bright, healthy 
color. No other preparation leaves such a cool, refi'esh- 
ing sensation in the mouth, or gives to the breath such' 
a peculiar sweetness. 

Sold everywhere, in large bottles, with neat metallic 
cap, which avoids waste and retains its fragrance, at 25 
ceiats : mammoth size, 50 cents. 



PREPARED ONLY BY 

C. I. HOOD & CO., Apothecaries, 

Barristers' Hall, Lowell, Mass. 
Hood's Sarsaparilla Purifies the Blood. 



YEAST, No. 1. 

One and a half cups of raw grated potatoes, one cup of 
wliito sugar, two-thirds of a cup of salt, pour on four 
quarts of Ijoiliug water, stir while pouring in. Steep a 
handful of hops and stir in the yeast; when cold add one 
and a half cups of yeast. 

Hood's Tooth Powder hardens the gums. 

YEAST, No. 2. 

Take six good-sized potatoes, wash and pare them and 
put to boil in two quarts of water, and with them a small 
handful of hops in a small bag tightly tied. When the po- 
tatoes are quite soft take them out and mash them line, 
pouring upon them the water in which they were boiled, 
adding a little water to make up for what they have boiled 
away ; half a cup of salt and the same quantity of sugar. 
Wheu cooled to a lukewarm temperature add one cup of 
yeast to ferment it. Keep in a cool place. 

BROWN BREAD, No. 1. 

One quart of meal, two-thirds of it rye, one-third Indian, 
a cup of molasses, a teaspoonful of salt. Mix it very soft 
with a pint and a half of sour milk, in which is dissolved 
a teaspoonful of saleratus. Boil three and a half hours. 

Hood's Sarsaparilla purifies the blood. 

BROWN BREAD, No. 2. 

One pint of sour milk, two teacups of molasses, three 
cups corn meal, one and a half cups of flour, one-half tea- 
spoonful of salt, two teaspoonfuls of soda. Steam three 
hours. 

BROWN BREAD, No. 3. 

One and a half pints of sweet milk, one cofl"ee cup of 
molasses, stir in a thin batter of one-half Indian meal and 
one-half Graham, one small teaspoonful of soda. Steam 
it two hours with the cover on, one hour uncovered. 



Hood's Sarsaparilla restores and renovates the loJiole system. 



Erysipelas or Salt-RheUTii^ 

Mkssus. C. I. Hood & Co. Lowell, June 20, 1878. . 

Dkau Sirs — Allow ine to tell you my story for the benefit of 
others. My nu)ther and sister have been troubled with the Salt- 
Kheuni a good many years. I never had a blotch on mrj face until 
May, 187G. when three hard purple bunches came on my chin, the 
size of llie end of my finger. One doctor told me it was Salt-Rheum, 
another Erysipelas, wliile a third said it was caused by eating fruit. 
These iihysiciuns gave mo medicine, but n(me of it did" mo anv good. 
This run along till the following January, when it got so bad I was 
ashamed to go out. My nurse Inially persuaded me to try HOOD'S 
SAKSAPAlilLLA, Although the tirst bottle made me feel sick, 
still 1 nad confidence in it and persisted in taking it. This sick 
feeling was undoubtedly caused by my being very bilious. AVhen I 
had taken about half of the sooond bottle 1 began to feel decidedly 
bettor, and attor this my oliin seemed to improve every day. AVhen 
I liad finished the second bottle 1 felt like a new person; my appe- 
tite had been very poor, but has been splendid ever since. I tell 
my friends 1 con'do tiro days' uork in one now. 

Some of my friends toUf me they did not think it was going to 
do me any good, and I must admit 1 was discouraged a good many 
times, for 1 had faithfullv tried so manv things without receiving 
anv permanent good; still I hung on. and HOOD'S SARSAPA- 
KILLA has li\ed my chin almost as good as new, and I am only 
too hapi)y to testify to its value. I used one box of your Olive Oint- 
ment— vo'u don't praise it half enough. With much gratitude, I am 
verv triilv vours. MRS. A. D. ALLEN. South Street. Lowell. 

(At Mr. John Nichols's.) Read pages 48 and 59. 

The letter which follows adds another to the long list of grate- 
ful ones who are to-day doing their utmost to extend the knowledge 
of this wonderful remedy among their friends. 

CAXKEli AXD nirHTHEBIA. 

"Winchester. Mass.. Sept. 27. 1878. 

Messrs. C. I. Hood & Co.. Lowell. Mass. Dear ^irs— Will 
} jini please send me two more bottles of your Sarsaparilla? I en- 
close postal order for $2. i\Iy little boy had the Diphtheria a few 
years ago, and has had trouole with numor and abscesses ever 
since; have not had anything do him any good until I tried your 
Sarsaparilla. He is" beginning to get better, and I think one 
more bottle will cure hinu As for myself I feel that I cannot rec- 
ommend Ho<^i>"s Sarsaparilla too highly, for I have been troub- 
led with Canker now for a number of years, and I can begin to see 
that vour medicine is curing me. I do not feel that I can be with- 
out it. so please send as soon as possible. MRS. E. F. METCALP\ 

Hood's Sarsaparilla is sold by all Druggists. 

Si.iK> a bottle, or six large bottles for ;?5.00. Trial size 50 cts. 

C. I. HOOD & CO., Apothecaries, Lowell, Mass. 
Hood's Tooth Powder preserves the teeth. 



MRS. II.'S BREAD. 

Sift eight quarts of flour into the kneading tray, put in 
a pint of yeast, mixed Avith a pint of lukewarm water, and 
work up this with surrounding flour till it makes a thick 
batter. Then scatter a handful of flour over the batter, 
lay a warm cloth over the whole, and set in a warm place. 
This is called sponge. When the sponge is risen so as to 
make cracks in the flour over it, scatter over it two table- 
spoonfuls of salt, and put in two quarts of wetting, warm 
but not hot enough to scald the yeast. Knead the whole 
thoroughly for as much as half an hour, form into around 
mass, scatter a little flour over it, cover it, set it to rise in 
a warm place. In winter it is best to put the bread to rise 
over night, keeping it warm, in summer in the morning. 

ANOTHER BREAD. 

Eive quarts of flour, piece of butter size of an egg worked 
i»n, one large spoonful of sugar, one small spoonful of salt, 
one quart of water or milk, tAvo-thirds of a cup of yeast, 
let it rise over night, knead thoroughly in the morning and 
let it rise again in the bread tins. Bake an hour and a 
quarter in a moderate oven. 

Hood's Sarsaparilla restores the whole system. 

THIRD BREAD. 

One quart l)olted Indian meal, scalded with boiling 
water; when cool add one cup of yeast, one quart of 
flour, one quart rye meal, two or three spoonfuls of 
molasses, a little salt ; mix with lukewarm water. Mould 
with the hand and put to rise over night ; in the morning 
add one-half teaspoonful of soda. Bake in biscuit or in 
loaves. 

RYE CAKES. 

One pint scalding hot milk, one-half cup Indian meal, 
one-half cup sugar, one cup rye meal, two cups of flour; 
cool and then add a little salt, and one-half cup of yeast. 
Let this rise over night. In the morning add one-half 
teaspoonful of saleratus and two eggs. 



ff nod's Tooth Poinder whitens the teeth. 



BREAKFAST CAKE. 

One cup of sugar, two cups of milk, tvv-o-tbirds of a 
cup of melted 1)utter, three eggs, one quart of tlour, two 
teaspooufuls of cream tartar, cue teaspooufal of soda. 
Bake twenty minutes. 

MUFFINS, No. 1. 

One quart of milk, one c^g, one spoonful of butter, two 
spoonfuls of lard, one-half cup of yeast, and flour enough 
to make a batter a little thicker than griddle cakes. Put 
to rise over night. 

MUFFINS, No. 2. 

One pint of new milk, four eggs, one teaspoonful of 
salt, flour enough for a batter. 

CORN CAKE, No. 1. 

Two cups of white Indian meal, one cup of flour, one 
pint of water, one egg, two-thirds cup of sugar, two 
teaspooufuls cream tartar, one teaspoonful of soda, a 
small piece of butter and a little salt. 

Hood's Tooth Powder preserves and beautifles the teeth. 

JENNIE LUNGES. 

Half a cup of melted butter, two tablespoonfuls of 
sugar, one cup of sweet milk, two teaspooufuls of cream 
tartar, one teaspoonful soda, two eggs, three cups flour, 
and a little salt. Bake in small cups twenty minutes- 

PARKER HOUSE ROLLS. 

One quart of cold boiled milk, two quarts of flour, one 
large tablespoonful of lard rubbed into the flour; make a 
hole in the middle of the flour; take one full cup of yeast, 
one-half cup of sugar, add the milk and pour into the 
flour with a little salt; let it stand as it is until morning, 
then knead it hard and let it rise; knead again at four in 
the afternoon ; cut out ready to bake and let it rise again. 
Bake twenty minutes. 

HoQcTs Sarsaparilla costs only one xw.nny a dose. 



Hereditary Scrofula. 

Are you aware that iu your 'bloocl llie taint of Scrofula has a 
proDuineht phice? This is true of every one. It is liable at any 
time, on the slightest provocation, to develop itself in some insidi- 
ous disease. Consumption and many other diseases are outgrowths 
of this impurity of the blood. 

While a sinaile bottle of Hood's Saesaparilla has repeatedly 
effected wonderful cures, it is hardly reasonable that one should 
ex])ect to be cured in a short time of a disease tl.Mt may h.ave cov- 
ered months and years. All we ask is a fair trial, and we besr those 
wlio are sufterina; to extend to Hood's Sarsaparilla one-tenth the 
patience they have exercised in endurinp; the misery inflicted by 
their disease, and a small fraction of persistency like that with 
which the disease lias cluno; to them. Kelief has followed this 
course in every instance from which we have heard. 

37 SCROFULOUS SORES CURED. 

Messrs. C. I. Hood & Co.: Gentlemen— In November last 
an itching sensation under my arms resulted in two abscesses. 
One of these extended up on my shoulder and became a very deen 
running sore, larger than the palm of my liand. In P'ebruary fol- 
owing a bunch grew on my knee as big as my fist. I had it lanced 
in April. This also b.ecame a running sore. No one can know how 
much I suffered. At tiiis time I had thirty-seven sores— one on my 

head almost as large as the palm of my hand. Dr. of Westford 

feared this would affect my brain, as it was a very ugly tiling. 1 
was living in Manchester, N. H.. at the time these sores came. My 

physician, Dr. , wrote my mother that I could not possibly get 

well, and although he thought I would die on the May, he advised 
her to take me home. I reached Westford and was put under 
medical treatment, but kept failing. 

Wiien I began to take Hood's Sarsaparilla (eight months 
ago) these sores had completely prostrated me. I was conlined 
to my bed. and no one thought it possible for me to get well. My 
very life was exhausted; I had no appetite, and the only thing j 
could eat was a little cracker and v/ater. Anything else seemed to 
choke me. The doctor gave me everything he^could think of 
to give me an appetite, but without success, and at last told moller 
lie didn't know of anything more he could do for me. Oise day 
mother read one of your circulars to me about Hood's Saiisai-a- 
RiLLA. I said to her, " I want some of that medicine." And 1 am 
glad to tell you that in eight days after I began to take it. my ap- 
petite came to me and has been good ever since. JMy sores are 
nearly all healed; I am almost as strong and v/ell as before I had 
this awful lime, and now I am going to do my o^^^l work. I cannot 
over-express niy gratitude, because I cannot help feeling that 
Hood's Sarsaparilla has saved my life. I know four persons 
who are now taking the Sarsaparilla, and it 's doing them all good. 
I know it is a wonderful medicine. Very truly yours. 

MES. LlZZIE J. COLE. 

Westford. IMass. 
[Now living in Windham, N. H.; daughter of Mrs, Isaac Green, of 

Westford.] 

C. I. HOOD & CO., Apothecaries, Lowell, Mass. 
HoocVs Tooth Powder sweetens the breath. 



10 

BUCKWHEAT CAKES 

One quart buckwheat flour, one teaspoonful of salt, stir 
in water to make a thin batter ; beat thoroughly four table- 
spoonfiils home-brewed yeast. Set the batter in a warm 
place; let it rise over night; add one teaspoonful of soda 
in the morning. 

JOKERS. 

Two cups Graham meal, one cup of Hour, a little salt, 
two eggs, well beaten, added after flour and milk are 
mixed to a batter thick as pound cake. Bake in a quick 
oven. 

GRAHAM ROLLS, No. 1. 

Two cups Graham meal, one-half cup of flour, one 
egg, two teaspoonfuls of cream tartar, one teaspoontlil of 
soda, one-half cup of sugar and a little salt. 

Hood's Sarsaparilla eradicates scrofula. 

GRAHAM ROLLS, No. 2. 

One quart Graham flour, 1 cup sugar, 1 cup yeast, 1 table- 
spoonful butter rubbed in the flour; mix as hard as you 
can stir with a spoon, let it rise over night and bake in 
roll pans ; do not sift the flour. 

ROLLS. 

Take two quarts of flour and work in a large spoonful 
of lard ; half a pint of milk boiled and cooled, add it to 
the flour and work thoroughly; add one-half cup of yeast 
and a little sugar. If for breakfast mix at noon and let 
rise until bedtime, then roll out and lay on the cake board 
until time to bake for breakfast. If for tea mix at night 
and roll in the morning. Bake flfteen or twenty minutes. 

NEWPORT CAKES. 

Two cups of milk, three eggs, one great spoonful of 
sugar, one of butter, one teaspoonful of cream tartar, 
one-half teaspoonful of soda. Make a thin batter. 

Hood's Sarsaparilla makes tfie weak strong. 



11 



JENNIE'S SALLIE LUND GEMS. 

One egg, two tablespoonfuls of melted butter, one cup 
of sweet milk, two tablespoonfuls .sugar, two cups flour. 
one teaspoonful cream tartar, one-half teaspoonful salera- 
tus. Bake fifteen minutes. 

JENNY LIND DROP CAKES. 

Two and a half cups of flour, a small piece of butter, 
one cup of sweet milk, one-half cup of sugar, one table- 
spoonful of cream tartar, oue-half teaspoonful of soda, a 
little salt, one egg broken in after the rest is put together. 

Hood's Tooth Powder sweetens the breath. 

OATMEAL CAKES. 

One cup of cream, two cups of sour milk, two table- 
spoonfuls of sugar, one large teaspoonful of soda, oat- 
meal sufficient to make a thick batter. 

RYE BREAKFAST CAKES. 

Two cups of rj^e meal, one-half cup molasses, a little 
salt, a cup and a half of sweet milk to mix it very soft. 
and one teaspoonful of saleratus. Bake at once in a roll 
pan or muffin rings. 

COCOANUT CAJKE, No. 1. 

Two well-beaten eggs, two tablespoonfuls of butter, two 
cups prepared cocoanut, one cup sugar, one-half cup of 
milk, one teaspoonful cream tartar, oue-half teaspoonful 
soda ; soak the cocoanut in milk. 

COCOANUT CAKE, No. 2. 

Three-fourths of a pound of flour, half a pound of but- 
ter, mixed together; one pound of sugar and the yolks of 
five eggs mixed together ; mix these with one large cocoa- 
nut ; beat the Avhites of the eggs to a froth, and put in 
half a teaspoonful of soda and one of cream tartar. This 
is sufficient for two loaves. 

Hood's Sarsaparilla cures indigestion. 



12 



GEMS. 

Two cups of flour, one cup of milk, one cup water, a lit- 
tle salt, mix well and pour into iron-clan pans that have 
been healed very hot iuileed, lirst putting apiece of butter 
in each partition. Bake quickly in a very hot oven. 

Plood's Tooth Powder is only 25 cents a bottle. 

APPLE FRITTERS. 

Quarter and slice your apples, make a batter of two 
eggs, one cup of milk, a little salt and flour, or the same 
as lor fried oysters ; put in your npples and fry in hot fat 
the same as oysters. Very nice for l^reakfast. 

POP-OVERS. 

Three, cnps of milk, three cups of flour, three eggs. 
Bake half an hour in a quick oven in cups. 

MARY ANN'S CREAM CAKE. 

One pint of water, one pint of flour, one-half pint of 
butter ; wlien the water boils put in the butter to m.elt, and 
stir in the flour. Set away to cool and then mix in seven 
eggs. Drop in a tin and bake in a quick oven. Cream for 
same — one pint of milk, four eggs, two cups of sugar, one 
cup of flour; beat sugar, eggs and flour together and stir 
in the milk while boiling. Flavor to taste. 

PLAIN DARK CAKE. 

One and one-half cups of sugar, two spoonfuls of mo- 
lasses, one cup butter, one-half cup sour milk, one spoon- 
ful of soda, two eggs, two and one-half cups of flour, a 
little of all kinds of spice, currants and raisins. 

GOLD CAKE. 

Two cups not quite full of flour, the yolks of four eggs, 
one cup of sugar, one-half cud of butter, one-half cup of 
sweet milk, one-half teaspoonful of soda, one teaspoonful 
cream tartar. Flavor to taste. 



JIoocVs tSarsaparilla is delicate to take. 



13 



Spring Medicine, 

AVhat will convince you of the wonderful curative properties 
combined inHOOD'SSAESAPAiaLLAi^her^^^^^^^^ 



that have been effected by its use fail to impress upon your mmd 
tins repeatedly proven fact? Thousands are usmg it, and all de- 
clare that it is a medicine possessing all and even more than we 
claim for it. My friend, if you are sick or in that condition that 
vou caamot call vourself either sick or well, go and get a bottle of 
HOOD'S SAKSArAKILLA and realize yourself how this 



Clare that It is a mcuicme pusbt^MUJi cui any c»t^i ii^v^xv. .x..... ..^ 

claim for it. My friend, if you are sick or in that condition that 
vou caamot call vourself either sick or well, go and get a bottle of 
HOOD'S SAKSATAKILLA and realize yourself how this medicine 
hits the right spot, and puts all the machinery of your body into 
working order. 

One of our prominent business men said to us the other day— 
"In the spring my wife got all r"" ^t^wn a^.^ coukl not e^t an^^ 
thing; passingyour store 1 saw a pile of HOOD S SAESAPAhlLLA 
in the window, and I got a bottle. After she had been taking it 
a week she had a rousing appetite, and it did her everything. She 
took three bottles, and it was the best three dollars I everinvested. 

The following testimonial from a reliable gentleman, who has 
especiallv observed the effects resulting from the use of more than 
fifty bottles of PIOOD'S SAESAPAKILLA by different persons, is 
only one of many at our disposal, and proves the following to be a 
fact, namely: that HOOD'S SARSAPARILLA is superior to all 
other preparations as a speciffc remedy for Scrofula and the nu- 
merous diseases springing from this taint in the blood, the extent 
of which must be realized, when statistics show that a large major- 
ity of our population arc suffering from its influence, either directly 
or indirectly. ^^^^^^^ ^. ^ ^^^ ^^^^^ ^3^^ 

Messrs. C. I. Hood & Co., Lowell, Mass. 

Gkxts: The little girl for whom I procured your Sarsaparilla 
was so badly afflicted with Scrofula that the side of her nt^ck ex- 
tending all over the ear and up into the hair, was one complete 
mass of matter. At this stage of the eruption I gave her a part of 
a bottle of Hood's Sarsaparilla, and before sue had taken all of 
that it bcii-an to h.eal. I then get one bott e more and tliat cuied 
her completely, leaving no scar to show that she had eyei been 
troubk d by that terrible disease. Scrofula. The beneficial efiect 
derived from the use of Hood's Sarsaparilla by those for whom I 
have procured it, has in every instance been more speedy and pos- 
itive than I have ever found to be the case from the use of any 
other preparation of the kind. Very ^^^^yj^'Og^^^yooDMAN. 

Hood's Sarsaparilla is sold by all Druggists. . 

61.00 a bonie, or six large bottles for ^5.00. Trial size, oO cts. 

C. I. HOOD & CO., Apoth ecaries, Lowell, Mass. 
MooiVs Tooth Poicder preserves the teeth. 



14 



SILVER CAKE. 

Two cups of flour, the whites of four eggs, one cup of 
sugar, oue-half cup of sweet inilk, one teaspoonful cream 
tartar, one-half teaspoonful of soda. Flavor to taste. 

Hood's Sarsaparilla cleanses the blood of humors. 

ANNIE'S CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

One full cup of butter, two cups of flour, two cups of 
sugar, one cup — not quite full — milk, oue-half teaspoonful 
of soda, one teaspoonful cream tartar, live eggs, leaving 
out the whites of two; rub butter and sugar together, 
add eggs, two-thirds of the milk, then flour, then the 
rest of the milk in which 3^ou have dissolved the soda; 
while hot, spread with an icing made of the whites of 
eggs, one and a half cups of pulverized sugar, two tea- 
spoonfuls essence vanilla and six tablespoonfuls of vanilla 
chocolate. 

MARBLE CAKE. 

For the white cake — one cup of butter, three cups of 
white sugar, tive cups of flour, even full, one-half cup of 
sweet milk, one-half teaspoonful of soda, whites of eight 
eggs ; flavor with lemon. For the dark cake — one cup of 
butter, two cups brown sugar, one cup of molasses, one 
cup of sour milk, one teaspoonful of soda, four cups of 
flour, yolks of eight eggs and one whole egg, spices of all 
sorts ; put in pans, flrst a laj^er of dark, then a layer of 
white, and so on, finishing with a dark layer. Bake iri a, 
hot oven. 

WHITE MOUNTAIN CAKE, No. 1. 

Three cups of sugar, one cup of milk, two cups of but- 
ter, four eggs, six cups of flour, two teaspoonfuls cream 
tartar, one teaspoonful of soda ; flavor with lemon. 

AVHITE MOUNTAIN CAKE, No. 2. 

Three eggs, one cup of sugar, one-half cup of milk, 
one-half cup of butter, two cups of flour, one teaspoon^ 
ful of soda, two teaspoonfuls cream tartar; flavor to taste. 

JffoocVs Tooth Powder Uav-s. a delightful taste in the movf^- 



15 

ANOTHER CHOCOLATE CAKfi. 

*Two cups of sugar, one cup of butter, one cup of sweet 
milk, three and a half cups of flour, three whole eggs and 
the yolks of two more, one teaspoouful of cream tartar, 
one-half teaspoouful of soda. Frosting for same — whites 
of two eggs beaten with sugar quite stiff, three table- 
spoonfuls grated chocolate, teaspoouful of vanilla. 

Hood's Tooth Powder contains nothing injurious. 

HERMIT CAI^ES. 

One-half cup of butter, one and a half cups of sugar, 
three eggs, one teaspoonful of all kinds of spice, one-half 
teaspoouful of soda dissolved in a little water ; mix up 
stiff and roll. 

LILY CAKE. 

Two cups of sugar, one cup of butter, mixed together; 
one cup of sweet milk, one-half teaspoonful of soda, one^ 
cup of corn starch, two cups of flour, one teaspoonful of 
cream tartar, whites of five eggs. Flavor, and frost witk 
chocolate frosting. 

QUEEN'S CAKE. 

One and three-quarters pounds flour, one and a half 
pounds of sugar, three-quarters of a pound of butter, six 
eggs, one pint of milk, one pound of raisins, one glass of 
brandy, one nutmeg, one teaspoonful soda dissolved in 
the milk. 

D ANBURY, OR GOLD AND SILVER CAKE. 

Gold cake— three cups of sugar, one cup of butter, five 
cups of flour, one and a half cups of sweet milk, one tea- 
spoonful of cream tartar, half a teaspoonful of soda, the 
yolks of twelve eggs. Flavor with vanilla. Silver cake 
— Whites of twelve eggs, three cups of sugar, one cup of 
butter, one cup of sweet milk, one teaspoonflil of cream 
tartar, one-half teaspoonful of soda. Flavor with almond. 
Five cups of flour. 

Hood^s SaYmparUla sharpens the. appetite. 



That Extreme Tired Feeling. 

" The first bottle has done my daughter a great deal of good; her 
food does not distress her now nor does she suffer from that extreme 
tired feelimj which she did before taking Hood's Sarsaparilla." 

Other Blood Turifiers ruin the appetite. Hood's Sarsaparilla 
stimulates and sharpens it. 



A Severe Case of Scrofulous Humor Cured. 

Lowell. j\rass., May 15, 1877. 
Messrs. C. I, Hood & Co. Gentlemen — Allow me to tell you how 
very valuable your Sarsaparilla has proved itself in my family. My 
youngest son has always been troul)led with Scrofulous Humor, 
sores in his head discharging from liis ears, a running sore on the 
back of his ear for two years, his eyelids would fester and ulcerate, 
discharging so that I was obliged to wash tliem open every morn- 
ing, his eyelashes nearly all coming out; he was exceedingly dainty, 
most of the time eating but two slight meals a day. We were una- 
ble to find anything that had the least efi'ect upon him till last 
spring (1S76> we gave him two bottles of Hood's Sarsaparilla. 
His appetite improved at once, and it was a real pleasure to see 
him eat with tlie keen relish of a little pig. The back of his ear 
healed up without a scar, and not a sore in his head since. "Truth 
is stranger than fiction." The above are facts, and you are at lib- 
erty to use them as you please. Sincerely yours, 

Mrs. >s\ C. SANBORN. 

108 East j\Ierrimack St. 

Hood's Sarsaparilla strengthens and builds up the system 
while it eradicates disease. 

A young lady tells us, *' Hood's Sarsaparilla is doing won- 
ders. I haven't' felt so well before for six months." Hundreds 
have reported the same and are telling it to their friends, who iu 
turn get a bottle, try it, and so it keeps repeating itself. A thing 
possessinfj real- merit, as Hood's Sarsaparilla iindoubtedli/ does, is 
bound to meet general use. Satisfaction guaranteed every time. 
fVe mean this.' 

Ajypefite Restored. 

92 Church Street, Lowell, May IG, 1877. 
Messrs. C. I. Hood & Co. 

Gents — Three months since I found myself very much re- 
duced, had no aiipetite, no strength and was feeling as mean as 
anv one couM and be about my work. As soon as I began taking 
Hood's Sarsaparilla my food relished and seemed to do me 
some good, which it did not before. I felt myself growing stronger 
every day, and am now feeling better than I'have for a long time. 
I thoroughly believe in the value of Hood's Sarsaparilla. 

Yours, etc. WM. H. MUNGAN. 



prepared only by 

C. I. HOOD & CO., Apotlaecaries, 

Sarr-lster.s' Hall, Loivell, lifass. 

Sold by all druggists. 



17 

PvAISED CAKE. 

Three Clips of light dough, three eggs, two heaping 
cups of sugar, one cup of butter, one cup of chopped 
raisms ; put i;i a dish together and Avoric with hand till 
well mixed, spice to taste. Put in pans and balie imme- 
diately. 

Hood's Sarsaparilla gives an appetite. 

CHEAP SPO]S^GE CAKE. 
Three eggs, one cup of sugar, one cup of flour, into 
which mix one teaspoonful of cream tartar, and one-half 
teaspoonful of soda dissolved in three teaspoonfuls of 
warm Mater. The last thing add a dessert spoonful of 
vinegar, stirring briskly. Bake about twenty-five minutes 
in not too hot an oven. The batter will be very thin. 

MRS. S.'S SPONGE CAKE. 
Eleven eggs, four cups of sugar, four cups of flour; 
beat the yolks and sugar together, add the whites well 
beaten, stir the flour in last as lightly as possible. 

CORN STARCH CAKE. 

The whites of three eggs, one-half cup of corn starch, 
one-half cup of butter, one-half cup of milk, one-half 
teaspoonful of cream tartar, one- fourth teaspoonful of 
soda, one cup of sugar, one cup of flour. Flavor with 
lemon. 

Hood's Tooth Powder should be used l)y ev(;ry one. . 

ELECTION CAKE. 
One pound of sugar, three-fourths of a pound of butter, 
four eggs, one-half pint of yeast, two and a half pounds 
of flour, one pint of milk, spices and raisins, one teacup 
of moli-.sses ; mix the yeast with the milk and part of the 
flour and let it stand over night ; in the morning work the 
butter and sugar together, then add the eggs and work 
the dough Avith the rest of the ingredients; rise again 
before baking. 

Hood's Sarsaparilla incajorates the nervous system. 



DELICIOUS CAKE. 

Two cups of white sugar, one cup of butter, one cup of 
milk, three eggs, half teaspoonful of soda, one teaspoon- 
ful of cream tartar, three cups of flour ; beat butter and 
sugar together, add the j'olks of the eggs, then the beaten 
whites ; dissolve the soda in milk, rub the cream tartar in 
flour and add last. 

Hood's Sarsaparilla imparts new life to all the functions' 
of the body. 

CIRCLE CAKE. 

One egg, one cup of sugar, two cups of flour, one-third 
of a cup of butter, one-half cup of sweet milk, one tea- 
spoonful of cream tartar, one-half teaspoonful of soda. 
Flavor with rose or lemon. 

PANCAKES. 

One pint of milk, three eggs, one teaspoonful of salt; 
mix to a very thin batter, drop in hot lard. To be eaten 
with wine and sugar. 

CHAPIN CAKE. 

Six cups flour, one cup of butter, three cups of sugar, 
two cups of milk, two eggs, one teaspoonful of soda, one 
pound of chopped raisins. 

Hood's Tooth Powder prevents the accumrlation of 
tartar. 

BUTTERMILK CAKE. 

Three cups of pulverized sugar, one cup of butter, one 
cup of buttermilk, six eggs, one teaspoonful of soda, three 
cups of flour. 

COFFEE CAKE. 

Five cups of flour, one cup of butter, one cup of coffee, 
one cup of molasses, one cup of sugar, one cup of raisins, 
and a teaspoonful of soda. 



Hood's SarsapartUa cures dyspepsia. 



TUSSANO. 

TUS-SA-NO, 
From the Latin words Tussis, Covan — Sano, Cure. 

COUGH CURE. 

The cures effected by the use of Tussano prove conchisively 
that it contains vahiable medicinal agents for the relief and perma- 
nent cure of Coughs. Colds, Hoarseness. Bronchitis, Sore Throat. 
Ministers' Sore Throat, Asthma, and all affections of the Throat and 
Lungs, including that dread destroyer of human life, Consumption, 
when it has not advanced beyond the reach of medicine. It loosens 
a cough and causes free and easy expectoration, removes inflamma- 
tion, and by its wonderful soothing properties heals and strength- 
ens the lungs. Tussano is composed of medicinal agents long and 
favorably known by all and held in the highest esteem by the most 
eminent men in the medical faculty in the treatment of these dis- 
eases. In exhausting the active properties from Wild Cherry, 
Thoroughwort and other ingredients of which Tussano is made, we 
employ the best methods known to Pharmacy and offer as a result 
a preparation of unsurpassed beauty, flavor and excellence, which 
make it the most desirable Cough Medicine ever offered to the peo- 
ple and adapt it particularly to the requirements of every family, 
especially where there are children. Official reports show the alarm- 
ing facts that nearly one-fourth of the whole number of deaths are 
caused by Consumption and Pneumonia. These diseases are al- 
ways preceded by a cough, which Tussano invariably cures, if it is 
used in season. Remember that " A stitch in time saves nine." 

We challenge the world to produce a remedy equal to Tussano 
for the purposes for which it is designed. By long and careful study 
we have succeeded in compounding a purely vegetable preparation, 
combining rare curative properties in such proportion as to secure 
the positive effect of each. It is safe to use in all cases, and has 
proved itself an efficient remedy for all diseases of the Throat and 
Lungs from a slight Cold or Cough to Consumption in its incipient 
or advanced stage, affording great relief and permanently curing 
when it is possible for medicine to do so. 

PREPARED BY 

C. I. HOOD & CO., Apothecaries, Lowell, Mass. 



Hood's Tooth Powder recommended hy Dentists, 



20 



JELLY CAKE. 

Three eggs, one cup of sugar, one cup of flour, small 
teaspoonful of cream tartar, lialf a teaspoonfsil of soda 
dissolved in two tablespooufuls of milk; ho.)t all well 
together. When baked spread with jelly. 

Hood's Sarsaparilla cures dyspepsia. 

TUMBLER CAKE. 
Three tuml)lers of sugar, one tumbler of butter, one 
tumbler of sweet milk, four eggs, five tumblers of tlour, 
one teaspoonful cream tartar, one-half teaspoonful soda, 
a tumbler of citron. Flavor with lemon. 

PARK STREET CAKE. 
Whites and yolks of four eggs beaten separately, two 
cups of white sugar, one cup ofniilk, three cups of flour, 
one-half cup butter, two teaspooufuls of cream tartar, 
one teaspoonful of soda. Flavor to taste. 

HICKORY NUT CAKE. 

One cup of sugar, one-half cup butter, one-half cup 
milk, two cups flour, one teaspoonful cream tartar, one- 
half teaspoonful soda, one large cup raisins, one cup nuts 
broken up, two eggs. 

Worthy of notice : Hood's Tooth Powder. 

DELICATE .CAKE. 
Nearly three cups flour, two cups of sugar, three- 
fourths of a cup of sweet milk, wliites of six eggs, one 
teaspoonf.il of cream tartar, half a teaspoonful of soda, 
half a cup of butter. Lemon for flavoring. 

SKELETONS. 
Two eggs, three tablespooufuls of sugar and one table- 
spoonful of butter, flour to make very stitt'. Koll very 
thin and cut in fancy shapesj. 

Hood's Sarsaparilla tones and strengthens the digestive 
organs* 



RAISIN CAKE. 

One-half cup of butter, one-half cup of sugar, t^N'o eggs, 
one-half cup of sweet milk, three cups of flour, one eup of 
raisins, one-half teaspoonful of sorta, one teaspoonful of 
cream tartar. 

Hood's Tooth Powder neutralizes the offensive secre- 
tions of the mouth. 

MOLASSES GINGERBREAD, No. 1. 

Two cups of Orleans molasses, one cup of sugar, one 
cup of sour milk, one-half cup of butter, one egg, one tea- 
spoonful of soda, tablespoonful of ginger, sufficient flour 
for a thick batter. 

MOLASSES GINGERBREAD, No. 2. 

Two cups of molasses, one-half cup of butter, one cup 
of sour cream, one teaspoonful of ginger, two teaspoon- 
fuls of soda, five and a half cups of flour. 

HARD GINGERBREAD. 

One cup of butter, two cups of sugar, three eggs, one 
teaspoonful of cream tartar, one -half teaspoonful soda. 
Season with ginger and nutmeg. Flour enough to roll. 

GINGER SNAPS. 

Bring to a scald one cup of molasses, and stir in one 
tablespoonful of soda, pour it, while foaming, over one 
cup of sugar, one egg, one tablespoonful of ginger, beaten 
together; then add one tablespoonful of vinegar. Flour 
enough to roll stirred in as lightly as possible. 

Hood's Sarsaparilla works wonders in the blood. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

One quart flour, one egg, one-half cup sugar, one cup 
sweet milk, six teaspoonfuls melted lard, two even spoon- 
fuls cream tartar, one even spoonful soda. 



Invest 25 cents in a bottle of TloorVs Tooth Fovxler 



22 



KAISED DOUGHNUTS. 

Two cups of milk, half cup of yeast, flour enough tc 
malvo a bucLer; make this batter at noou, set it in a warn 
place and let it rise until night; if light add tablespoon 
ful of butter, same of salt, one eg^, cup of sugar and s 
little cinnamon, half teaspoonful of soda, and let it rise 
until morning. 

DOUGHNUTS, No. 2. 

One cup of sour milk, one cup of sugar, one egg, one 
teaspoonful of soda, two tablespoonfuls melted butter, a 
little salt and spice. Mix very soft. 

Hood's Tooth Powder should be used every night and 
morning. 

COOKIES, No. 1. 

Two cups of sugar, one cup of butter, two eggs, one 
half cup of milk, one teaspoonful of cream tartar, oue-lial] 
teaspoonful of soda, flour to roll stift'. 

COOKIES, No. 2. 

One and a half cups of brown sugar, one cup of butter 
two eggs, one cup of currants, two great spoonfuls o 
sweet milk, small teaspoonful of soda; cinnamon, cloves 
nutmeg to taste. 

BUNS. 

Three cups new milk, one cup of sugar, one-half cup o 
yeast; make a stiff batter at night; in the morning mij 
one-half cup of butter and one and a half cups of sugar 
and mix with the batter, flour to roll out, add currants, 
Cut out as biscuit, and raise them light before baking. 

To build up the system use Hood's Sarsaparilla. 

CURRANT WINE PIE. 

One cup currant wine, one cup sugar, one spoontui oi 
flour. Two crusts. 



Bead page 36, 



^ 
CORROBORATED FACTS. 

The Worst Case of Scrofulous Humor on Record Cured, 

Messrs. C. I. Hood & Co. Lowell, Mass., Sept. 25, 1877. 

My Dear Sirs:— If any one doubts what lias been done forme by 
Hood's Sarsaparilla, I ^vould like to have them call and see me. 1 take 
no stock in testimonials away off, but wluit has been done here is 
Avorlh looking at. Jb'or nearly ten years past 1 have had scroiulous 
sores, from which I have suflered more than 1 can possibly tell. For 
nearly two years (previous to my taking Hood's Sarsaparilla) I have 
not been out of the house, as they came out on my limbs, arid during 
the six months previous to May 1 v.as obliged to use crutches to get 
round my room. These sores seemed to be real ulcers, and were so 
called by doctors who examined them. One of them was so deep 
that it caused the muscles of my leg to contract so that I could not 
touch my heel to the lloor. I had thirteen of these sores on me at one 
time. My health was very poor, appetite fastidious, thin in flesh and 
could not sleep nights on account of pain and nervousness. Mr. 
Moses Whittier urged me to try Hood's barsaparilla, and was so san- 
guine of its merit that 1 luially, with more faith in him than in the 
medicine, sentfor a bottle. Am now taking the fourth bottle. Befoi*e 
I had taken the first bottle there was a great change in me, which was 
spoken of by others in the house. Eefore I had taken the third, the 
sores, six in numbex', and one very large one which the children said 
was a terrible sight, were nearly healed. My appetite lias been bet- 
ter ever after I commenced taking the Sarsaparilla, am stronger, am 
regaining my flesh, sleep well and am in better health than I have 
been for years. Don't use crutches, can put my foot square upon the 
floor, and have been upon the street several times. Others are now 
taking the Sarsaparilla on my recommendation, and all are being 
benefited by it. Am Avilling you should publish these facts, for if 
others are s uttering as I have, 1 would like lliem to know how much 
I have been relieved, for all of which I am sincerely grateful. 

SARAH C. WHITTIER, No. G Tremont Corporation. 

AlEssKS. C. I. Hood & Co. Lowell, Mass., Oct. 9, 1877. 

Gentlemen:— In reply t,^ your inquiry as to Miss Sarah Whittier, I 
would say, I have known her for more than twelve years. During the 
few years just passed she has been a constant suflerer from scrofu- 
lous sores, and was obliged to leave her work about tliree years ago 
on account of these sores. Late last spring I did not think it possible 
for her to live many months, at the longest. She was a mere skele- 
ton, had scrofulous sores on her ear and limbs, and could put but one 
heel to the floor on account of a terrible sore on her leg, which had 
drawn up the muscles and cords. She could not get about her room 
except with the aid of crutches. I advised her to use Hood's Sarsa- 
parilla. I saw her a few days since and found her very much im- 
proved; has regained her flesh, walks out on the street, without 
crutches; her changed condition is very remarkable. She has used 
four bottles Hood's Sarsaparilla. I give you this confirmation of her 
statement of the wonderful efiect of Hood's Sarsajiarilla upon her, 
h at others suffering may have reason to believe in the ttlicacy of this 
very excellent medicine. Respectfidly vours, 

MOSES WHITTIER, No. 3^ Kirk Street. 



u 



WAFERS. 

One quart of flour, four ounces of lard or butter, a little 
salt. Wix Avitli cold \vater; pound with a rolling pii 
tAvcnty minutes. To 1:g rolled out very thin, and cut witl 
a doughnut cutter. To be eaten ^vith jelly. 

Hood's Tooth Powder gives the gums a bright, health; 
color. 

FRUIT CAIvE. 

Two eggs, one and a half cups of molasses, one cup o 
butter, one teaspoonful of cloves, one teaspoonful of ciu 
namou, one-half teaspoonful of saleratus, three cups o 
flour, one pound currants or raisins — improved by citron 
Bake two hours rather slowly. 

CHEAP FRUIT CAKE. 

One-half cup of butter, two cups of flour, three-fourth; 
of a cup of sugar, one-half cup of milk, less than one-hal 
cup of molasses, two eggs, one-half teaspoonful of sod; 
in molasses to foam, one cup of chopped raisins, a littli 
cloVe and cinnamou. 

LEMON CAKE. 

One cup of butter, three cups of sugar rubbed to t 
cream ; stir into it the yolks of Ave well-beaten eggs, dis 
solve a teaspoonful of soda in a teacup of milk, then adc 
the milk and the grated peel of one lemon, the whites o 
Ave eggs, sifting iu as lightly as possible four teacupful; 
of flour. This will make four long tins full. 

To invigorate the aged use Hood's Sarsaparilla. 

CLOVE CAKE. 

Two cups of flour, one-half cup of molasses, one-hal 
cup of butter, one-half cup of milk, two eggs, two cupt 
or more of raisins, one teaspoonful of soda, one-half tea 
spoonfid each of cloves, cinnamon and alspice, one-half i 
nutmeg. 

Hood's Sarsaparilla cures constipation. 



A REAL BLOOD PURIFIER. 



The Lowell Weekly Journal of May 11, says: " We do not as a 
rule allow ourselves to use our editorial columns to speak of any 
remedy we advertise, but we feel warrantetl in saying a word for 
Hood's Sausapakilla. Sarsaparilla has been known to mnteria 
medica as a remedial agent for centuries, and is recommended by 
all schools of practice as a valuable blood-purifier. It is put up iii 
forms of almos inflnite variety; but Messrs. Hood & Co. who are 
thoroughly reliable pharmacists, seem to have hit upon a prepara- 
tion of unusual value. Certainly they have vouchers for cures 
which we knoiv to be most extraordinary." 



Lost Tiventy-Five Pounds. 

A gentleman tells us: "Tefore T commenced taking Hood's 
Sarsapajiilla I had fallen in weight from 10.5 to 140 pounds. 
With the first bottle my appetite has returned, my strength is re- 
stored and I am rapidly regaining my flesh." 



Gained Ten Pounds. 

Another gentleman who has been suffering from the dehility 
and /a/iv wo/' peculiar to this season, says: ''Hood's Sarsapa- 
rilla is putting new life right into me. I have gained ten pounds 
since I began to take it." Has taken two bottles. 



No other Sarsaparilla has such a sharpening effect upon the 
appetite. No other preparation tones and strengthens the diges- 
tive organs like Hood's Sarsaparilla. 

Hood's Sarsaparilla Avorks through the blood, regulating, 
toning and invigorating all the functions of the body. 

Wonderful cases of Scrofulous Humor cured prove more than 
we ever claimed for Hood's Sarsaparilla. 

An ex-alderman 0£ this city says of Hood's Sarsaparilla, 
" It is the strongest Sarsaparilla I ever saw." 

Persistent cases of Scrofula have yielded to Hood's Sarsa- 
parilla. 

Sold by all druggists. 



prepared only by 

C. I. HOOD & CO., Apothecaries, 

barristers' Hall, Zowellj Mass, 



26 

WEDDING CAKE. 

Two pounds each of brjtter, sugar and flour, six pounds 
of currants, live of r<iisJns, and two of citron, and nine- 
teen eggs, two tablespoonfuls of cloves, six nutmegs, 
wineglass of brandy. 

ICE CREAM CAKE. 

Whites of live eggs, one and a half cups of sugar, one- 
half cup of butter, one cup of milk, one-half tea^poo'.iful 
of soda, one teaspoouful of cream tartar, three cups flour. 
Separate this mixtuie and color half with strawberry col- 
(jring. Flavor this with vanilla, the Avhite with lemon. 
Put in the white, then the pink. Bake slowly. 

Invest 25 cents in a bottle of Hood's Tooth Pov der. 

NEW YORK CUP CAKE. 

Take four eggs, four tumblers of sifted flour, three tum- 
blers of powdered white sugar, one tumbler of butter, one 
tumbler of ricli milk, one glass of white wine, a grated 
nutmeg, a teaspoonful of powdered cinnamon, and a small 
teaspoonful of saleratus. AVarm the milk and cut in the 
butter, keeping it by the Are until the butter is melted : 
stir into the milk the eggs beaten very light, in turn with 
the flour; add the spice and wine, and lastly, the saleratus 
dissolved in a little vinegar. Stir it all verj' hard. Bake 
in a loaf, in a moderate oven. 

This is a good time to take Hood's Sarsaparilla. 

QUEEN OF PUDDINGS. 

One pint of nice bread crumbs, one quart of milk, one 
cup of sugar, the j'olks of four eggs, the grated rind of 
one lemon, a piece of butter the size of an egg. Baked 
like a custard. When baked spread over the top slices of 
jelly of any kind, and cover the whole with the whites of 
the eggs beaten to a stiff froth, with one cup of sugar and 
t;he juice of the lemon. Brown lightly in the oven. 



Jfoo^rs Tooth Powder sv^eetens the breath. 



iPOUR FRUIT PUDDING. 

JButter thin slices of baker's bread on both sides. Stew 
together raspberries, blueberries, blackberries and cur- 
rants, and sweeten to taste. Fill the pudding dish with a 
layer of bread and a layer of fruit, alternately, and cover 
the top with a frosting of whites of eggs beaten with 
sugar. Set it in the oven long enough to brown the frost- 
ing delicately. This is best prepared the day before it is 
to be eaten. It is to be served with cream if convenient. 

To remove all humors of the blood use Hood's Sarsa- 
parilla. 

ORANGE PUDDING. 

Six oranges pared and cut fine, strew over them one cup 
of sugar, beat the yolks of six eggs with four spoonfuls of 
corn starch, strain into one quart of boiling milk, put the 
starch over the oranges when hot. Beat the Avhites of the 
eggs with two spoonfuls of sugar, and pour them over the 
starch. Brown in the oven. To be eaten cold. 

Decorate your mouth with pearly teeth by using Hood's 
Tooth Powder. 

LEMON PUDDING. 

The yolks of three eggs, beaten with nine spoonfuls of 
white sugar, the juice of two lemons, a tablespoonful of 
flour, two spoonfuls of melted butter, a small tumbler of 
sweet milk. Make a batter for a pie, after it is baked and 
ready, beat to a froth the whites of three eggs, with three 
spoonfuls of white sugar, spread it over the top and return 
to the oven and brown lightly. 

DELMONT PUDDING. 

Set one quart of milk into water and let it boil, beat the 
yolks of five eggs with four tablespoonfuls of corn starch, 
one cup of sugar. Cook in the milk and flavor to taste. 
Beat the whites of the five eggs with one-half cup of sugar, 
flavor and pour over the top. Set in the oven till lightly 
browned. 

Hood's Sarsaparilla restores and renovates the whole system. 



28 

SUET PUDDING. 
One cup of chopped raisins, two cups of suet, one cup 
of sweet milk, two-thirds of a- cup of molasses, one tea- 
spoonful of soda, four cups of flour. Steam two hours. 
Vv ine sauce. 

COTTAGE PUDDING WITH SAUCE. 

One coffee cup of sugar, one tablespoonful butter, two 
eggs, three cups flour, one cup milk, two even spoonfuls 
or cream tartar, one even spoonful soda. 
Trial bottle Hood's Sarsaparilla 50 cts. Large bottles $1.00. 

PEACH PIE. 

Select mellow, juicy peaches ; wash and place them in a 
deep pie plate lined with paste; strew a thick layer of 
sugar over each of the peaches, adding a spoonful of water 
and yprmkliug of flour over the top of each layer; cover 
with a thick crust, and bake about an houi-. 

CKEAM PIES. 

One quart of milk, the volks of three eggs, two cups of 
sugar, two spoonfuls of flour; boil this until it begins to 
thicken. Make a rich crust, put in the cream, flavor with 
lemon, and bake in a quick oven. Beat the whites of the 
eggs stiff, and frost. Put in the oven and color a little. 

]\Iakc your children clean their teeth with Hood's Tooth 
Powder. 

CREAM OR COCOANUT PIES. 

Two eggs, one cup of sugar, one-half cup of water, one- 
half teaspoonful of soda dissolved in the water, one tea- 
spoonful cream tartar, one and a half cups of flour, a small 
lump of butter. Cream— oue-haif cup of suijar, one-half 
cup of flour, one cg'^; beat the e-:g, stir in the sugar and 
flour, then stir in one-half pint' boiling milk, and two 
spoonfuls cocoanut. Make a frostiu- for the outside, 
sprinkle thickly with cocoanut before diT. The Die will 
be delicious. 



Head page 23; it may save a friend's life. 



29 



A'dentist who has had a large practice in our city 
for many years, writes us regarding 

Hood'8 Tootli Powder. 



LowEJLL, Mass., Sept. 25th, 1877. 
Messes. C. I. Hood & Co. 

Gentlemen:— Since you began to manufacture Hood's Sapona- 
ceous Tooth Powder I liave used it in my family and have recom- 
mended it in mypiactice extensively. 1 re card it as one of the 
best dentifrices in tlie market, and knowinp; the materials and the 
careful manner in which it is made, I can assure the public that it 
contains nothin.g that can possibly injure the teeth or gums, but 
if used constantly will cleanse and preserve them, and its neutral- 
izing properties will keep the mouth sweet. 
Yours truly, 

A. T. JOHNSON, Dentist. 



Wonderful Stories are told over our counter of what 
Hood's Sarsaparilla has done and is doing. 

A lady full of aniiuation said to us. "I have not been able to 
work constantly during the hot weather for many years. This 
summer I have taken three bottles Hood's Sarsaparilla, and have 
been vigorous and strong through the hot weather, and have 
worked every day, and feel as smart and active now as can be." 

This is only one of many. 

Hood's Sarsajianlla eradicates scrofula. 



80 

liOXBURY PATENT CREAM PIE. 

Due aud oue-half cups sugar, one and one-half cups flour,- 
five eggs and a little lemon. Beat the yolks and sugat 
Avell, then add the whites previously beaten to a stiff froth 
with the Hour. Fill with the following : to a pint of boil- 
ing milk add oue-half cup sugar and one- half cup of flour. 
Beat with two eggs and a little lemon. Let it boil two or 
three minutes, and set in a cool place. 

LEMON PIE, No. 1. 

Two lemons, two cups sugar, Ave eggs, two tablespoon- 
fuls of corn starch, one pint of milk ; grate the lemons, 
add the juice, stir together. Scald the corn starch with 
milk. This will make two pies, which must be baked in 
rich pufl' paste. 

Hood's Sarsaparilla is the best, strongest and cheapest. 

LEMON PIE, No. 2. 

Grate the rind of one lemon for spice, press out the 
juice and add to it one cup of powdered sugar, the yolks 
of two eggs, and. one whole eii;ix, one teaspoonfhl of corn 
starch scalded in oue-half cup of milk. Line a deep 
plate witli pastry, and pour in the mixture ; bake like a 
custard pie. While this is baking beat the whites of two 
eggs with three tablespooufuls of sugar to a stiff froth. 
Wiiou the pie is done pour on the frosting, return to the 
oven and brown lightly. 

RAISIN PIE. 

Boil one pound raisins an hour covered with water, add 
one lemon, one cup white sugar, two tablespooufuls of 
flour. For three pies. 

A Georgia girl says Hood's Tooth Powder Is the best. 

SAUCE. 
Two cups sugar, one cup butter, wine glass wine, two 
eggs. Pour over boiling water ; to be well beaten. 

Hood's Sarsaparilla has cured salt rheum. 



31 

APPLE PUFFS. 

Pare and slice six tart apples, stew them and strain them 
through a cullender, sweeten and add a pinch of salt ; let 
this cool while you make your paste, of two spoonfuls of 
butter worked into eight spoonfuls of flour ; add ice water 
to make consistency of bread dough, put on the molding 
board and roll quite thin, scatter small pieces of butter 
over this, and dredge with flour, then fold it up and roll 
quite thin again, repeat this operation any number of times, 
always rolling the paste iuto something like a square form. 
Cut the paste into pieces four inches square, put a small 
spoonful of sauce on one-half of the square, moisten the 
paste around it with water, and fold the other half over 
onto it. Make the edges perfectly smooth. Bake in a 
dripping pan lined with paper in a quick oven. When you 
take them from the oven sift a little powdered sugar over 
each pufl". 

It is delightful to cleanse the teeth with Hood's Tootli 
Powder. 

GOLD AND SILVER PUDDING. 

One quart of milk, one cup of sugar, six eggs, leaving 
out the whites of four ; scald the milk ; add sugar and 
dissolved corn starch, and one wineglass of Sherry wine ; 
bake for half an hour ; when cold cover with a frosting 
made of the whites of the four eggs, a cup of pulverized 
sugar, and flavoring ; brown in a hot oven. 

Scrofula and salt rheum have been cured by Hood's 
Sarsaparilla. 

RICE PUDDING. 

One cup of rice boiled soft in water ; add a pint of cold 
milk and a piece of butter size of an egg, yolks of four 
eggs, rind of lemon grated. Mix and bake half an hour. 
Beat the whites of four eggs ; stir in a pint of sugar, the 
juice of a lemon. After the pudding is baked and cooled 
a little, pour this over and brown in oven. Eat ccld. 
Will keep several days. 



TT,oo(Vs Tooth Poioder removes tartar from the teetf\. 



32 



The Loivell Daily Courier of June 3rcl, 1870, says ITood's Sarsa- 
parilla " is fast growing into use, and doing nuich good. Tliis is 
no 'jiatent medicine,' but a piepavation of a standard article lor 
specific diseases, and its eliect is said to l)e very marked. Tlie 
testimonials which they give are bona f.de from parties who have 
used the preparation, and clieerfully give their testimony as to its 
worth. Those afflicted with Scrofula, biliousness or general de- 
bility should try this remedy. Hood & Co. are careful and ex- 
perienced pharmacists, and tlieir preparations can be relied on." 



Dyspepsia and Sich Headache. 

Lov.'ell, Mass., June 10, 1878. 
Messrs. C. I. Hood & Co. 

Gentlemen — For over a year I have suffered constantly from 
sick headache and dyspepsia; have tried remedies without benefit. 
Before I liad taken two bottles of Hood's Saksaj'akilla I was 
much better. I am rarely troubled with headache now, and my 
food does not distress me as it did. It has done me good, and 1 
cheerfully recommend it. Very truly yours, 

HELEN J. MORRILL, No. 133 Cross Street. 

SCIATICA IIHEU3IATISM. 

Lowell, June, 1878. 
Messrs. C. I. Hood & Co. 

Gentlemen — Two years ago this fall I had an attack of Sciatica 
Rheumatism, v/hich conlined me to the house three months, but 
really kept about me a v.liole year, wiien I was taken down again. 
This time it hung on for five weeks. Then 1 connnenced taking 
Hood's Saksapakilla. Tlie first two bottles didn't seem to do 
me auy good, excepting my appetite; but v.b.en I commenced on 
the thiml found it was fixing me all rigbt. Tlie]>ain left my leg 
entirely, but a strip two inches wide from my hip to my heel con- 
timied'nunib. This has all gone exce])1iug on the heel and side of 
my foot, which is so slight 1 hardly notice it. I had no appetite 
till I took your Sarsaparilla. In the morning I had a faint feeling 
at my stomach, and before noon I wcnild be nearly exhausted. 
Hood's saksapakilla has entireh" overcome all tiiese troubles 
and given me such an appetite tb.at "I can eat anytiiing. ]\ly folks 
are fearful I shall have it again this fall, but 1 tell tliem 1 shall 
bridge it over with Hood's Saksapakilla. I know where 18 
bottles of your Sarsaparilla have been used, and every one 
given perfect satisfaction. 

"Wjth mv best wishes for the success of your valuable medicine, 
I am very truly yours. AARON JACOBS, 31 Congress Street. 

Hood's Sarsaparilla is sold by all Drugsrists. 

$:i.00 a bottle, or six large bottles for !?5.on. Trial size, 50 cents. 

C. I. HOOD & CO., Apothecaries, Lowell, Mass. 
HoocVs Tooth Poicder preserves the teeth. 



33 



GERMAX TOAST. 

Cut ioto slices a loaf of baker's bread, soak them ten or 
fifteen minutes in a pint of milk, two eggs and a little salt. 
Fry in equal parts of lard and butter till they are a light 
brown on both sides. This dish is quickly prepared for a 
dessert and may be eaten with a pudding sauce. 

COTTAGE PUDDING. 

One cup of sugar, one cup of milk, butter the size of an 
egg, three eggs — reserving the whites of two for frosting — 
one pint of hour, one teaspoonful of cream tartar, one-half 
teaspoonful soda. When balj:ed frost at once, with a cup 
of sugar added to the whites of the two eggs. 

Por your children use Hood's Sarsaparilla. 

PLUM PUDDING. 

Beat four eggs ; stir to them half a pound of flour, and 
half a pint of milk, half a pound of chopped suet, half a 
pound of stoned raisins, well floured, and a few currants, 
a teaspoonful of salt. Boil the pudding four hours, briskly. 
Serve with wine sauce. 

ENGLISH PUDDING. 

One cup of molasses, one-half cup of butter, one cup of 
sweet milk, a teaspoonful of soda, a teaspoonful of difler- 
ent spices, one cup of chopped raisins, three and a half 
cups of flour. Steam two or three hours. 

Thousands use Hood's Tooth Powder, and praise it. 

VICTORIA FRITTERS. 

Slice a loaf of baker's bread into pieces an inch thick ; 
cut the slices in the center, trinnning ofi" the crust, and 
place them on a flat dish. Take a quart of rich milk, one 
salt-spoonful of salt, eight beaten eggs. Stir tiie whole 
together and pour over the bread several hours before 
dinner, that it may be equally moistened. Fry in hot 
butter a delicate brown, and eat with sweet wine sauce. 



HoocVs Sarsaparilla gives tone to the stomaclu 



84 
H OOD'S 

VEGETABLE PILLS. 

25 CTS. A BOX; 5 BOXES FOR $1.00. 

Sent by Mail to any Address on Receipt of Price. 
PKEPAKED ONLY IJY 

C. I. HOOD & CO., Apothecaries, 

LO^A/'ELL, MASS. 

Hood's VrxjETAitLK Tills arc made to meet a legitimate 
doinand for a I'aiiiily physic tliat is jierfectly safe and can 
bo relied ui)(>n to do its woik thorou^ihly. It is customary, 
and a wise custom it is, and, in fact, actually necessary, for 
every one to liave on hand apliysic of some kind, ready for 
immediate nse. The necessity which so often compels all 
to resort to a medicine of this kind, renders it the most 
importont one in the medicine-closet. 

A fetter in tf/yrii irardvd off htj the thnrly use of an ejficicnt 
lafharticlike JIOOD'S VEGETABLE riLLS. 

A cold is often annihilated in a single flight h;/ n dose of 
ilOOJt'S VEGETABLE PILLS, which might otherwise con- 
tinue fur daijs. 

Hood's Vegetable Fills are a mild, efficient cathartic, 
actiuic with certainty npou the liver, removing all obstruc- 
tions from the alimentary canal and preventing all diseases 
arising from derangements of the liver and bowels. 

C AUTIOX. —A\'ok\ all pills containinjr calomel, mercury or any 
mineral subsUvnce, as they are liable to do harm. 

Hood'« Pills are a purely vegetable combination, and con- 
tain no calomel, mercpry or mineral substance of any kind. 
AVe ])elieve they are the best family i^hysic that can be made, 
and offer them with perfect confidence, lielieving that when- 
ever used it will he with the happiest results. Try them, 
and judge for yourself. Sent by mail to any address. 

C. I. noOD & CO., Apothecaries, loweH, Mass. 



HooiVs Sarsapar\lla eradicates scrofula. 



35 



COCOANUT PIE. 

One-half cup of butter, one and a half cups of white 
sugar, yolks of four eggs, and one whole egg, one-half cup 
of sweet milk, one-half teaspoonful of soda, one teaspoon- 
ful of cream tartar, two cups of flour ; bake in thin pie 
pans. After beating the white to a stiff froth, stir in a 
cupful of sugar and a cupful of dessicated cocoanut. 
Put this between the layers of cake. Frosting improves it, 

SALEM PUDDING. 

One cup of suet chopped fine, one cup molasses, a little 
salt, one cup of milk, two teaspoonfuls cream tartar, one 
cup of raisins, one teaspoonful of soda, three and a half 
cups of flour. Steam three hours. 

Hood's Tooth Powder is praised by everybody, 

PUDDING SAUCE, No. 1. 

One cup of sugar, one-half cup of butter, beaten to a 
cream ; then add the yolk and white of one egg, beaten 
separately ; flavor Avith a little lemon or vanilla ; set to 
cool. 

PUDDING SAUCE, No. 2. 

Two eggs, one cup of sugar, one-half cup of butter, one 
cup of boiling wine, to be poured on the mixture thor-- 
oughly. 

PUDDING SAUCE, No. 3. 

Take the yolks of two eggs and a cup of sugar ; beat 
five minutes and set over a teakettle to dissolve. When 
sufldciently thin for sauce, place in the dish ready to serve ; 
then add thewiiites beaten to a stiff' froth, and a wineglass 
of sherry. 

A reliable and remarkable medicine : Hood's Sarsaparilla. 

EGG SAUCE. 

One egg, one cup of sugar well beaten with the egg, one- 
half cup'boiliug water, just before serving. Season to taste. 



Hood's Sarsaparilla enriches the l>lood, 



36 



CARAMELS, No. 1. 

Equal quantities of milk, sugar, molasses and chocolate. 
Put a little butter into a kettle and boil it like candy. 

CARAMELS, No. 2. 

One-half cup of molasses, one cup of sugar, one-half 
cup of milk, one-half spoonful of Hour, butter one-half size 
of an egg, one-fourth of a pound of chocolate. Boil until 
liard, turn it into a jjan, mark into squares. 

If you expect to save your teeth, use Hood's Tooth 
Powder. 

ENGLISH GELATINE. 

To one paper of gelatine containing an ounce and a half, 
put a pint of cold water, after lit'tecn minutes add one quart 
of boiling water and stir until tlie gelatine is dissolved; 
then add a coifec cup of sugar, juice of lemon, or any spice 
or essence })referred, and boll it a minute. If the jelly is 
for an invalul, omit the lemon and use two gills of wine 
alter it is boiled, 

ORANGE GELATINE. 

One ounce Cox's gelatine dissolved in one pint of hot 
water. When cool, add the juice of six oranges and two 
lemons. Strain the whole through a line sieve and let it 
partially harden, then beat up the whites of tv.'o eggs, add 
them to the mixture and beat the whole live minutes or 
more, till stitf. Then put in a mould. 

Hood's Sarsaparilla is the best, strongest and cheapest. 

WINE JELLY, No. L 

To one paper Cox's gelatine add one pint of cold water, 
the juice and grated rind of two lemons, one pounded nut- 
meg and two or three sticks of cinnamon. Allow this to 
stand one hour, then add one quart of boiling Avater, one 
pint of wine — Sherry is much the best — one wineglass of 
brandy, two pounds of white sugar. A7hen all is dissolved 
strain through a flannel jelly bag. 



Children like Hood's Sarsapa7'iUa. 



37 

WINE JELLY, No. 2. 

One-third of a package of gelatine dissolved in a little 
cold water; to this add a jDint of hot water and let it come 
to a boil ; then put in two cups of sugar, one-half cup of 
Aviue or boiled cider, and nearly one tablespoonful of es- 
sence of lemon. Let cool till the next day. 

COFFEE CUSTARD. 
One pint of strong coftee, one pint of milk, boiled td- 
gether; six eggs, beaten with a cup and a half of sugar. 

An agreeable remedy to take : Hood's Sarsaparilla. 

CHOCOLATE CUSTARD. 

One quart of milk, two eggs, two and a half heaping 
tablespoonfuls of corn starch or maizena, two tablespoon- 
fuls of grated chocolate, six tablespoonfuls of sugar. Heat 
the milk almost to boiling —same as for soft custard. Beat 
the eggs, then add the corn starch and work it in till free 
from lumps; then add the chocolate, then sugar, and wet 
the whole with cold milk — take sufficient milk besides the 
quart to have it thin enough to pour — then pour the whole 
into the hot milk and stir until about as thick as soft cus^ 
tard. Let it cool a. little and pour into glasses. 

CHOCOLATE CANDY. 

One cup grated chocolate, one cup milk, one cup molas^ 
ses, butter size of an egg, one cup of sugar. Boil an hour. 
Have you ever trie,d Hood's Tooth Powder? 

TAPIOCA CREAMS, No. 1. 

"Wash and soak over night two ta])lespoonfuls of tapioca 
in cold water, drain off the water in the morning ; beat the 
yolks of three eggs, mix them and the tr^piocr. with a quart 
of milk, put onl^he stove and stir it, boil about two min- 
utes. Sweeten and flavor to taste. When nearly cold, 
add the whites of the eggs, beaten stifl", stir in lightly and 
well. Serve in glass custard cups. 



ffoocVs Sarsaparilla, the best spring medicine. 



ARE YOU AWARE 

That in your bloocl the taint of scrofula has a prominent 
place? This is true of every one. It is liable at any time, 
on the slifijhtest provocation, to develope itself in some 
insidious disease. (Consumption and many other diseases 
are outi^rowths of this impurity of the blood. HOOD'S 
SARSAPARILLA has a wonderful power over all scrofu- 
lous troubles, as the remarkable testimonials published 
unmistakably prove. 

Scrofulous Bunch In the Neck Removed. 

Dracut Centre, Oct. 13th, 1877. 
Messrs. C. I. Hood & Co. 

Dear Sirs :— About the first of last June I began to be troubled 
with a scrofula bunch on my neck, which so rapidly increased in size 
that I became alarmed. Knowing of a bad case of scrofula that had 
been cured with Hood's Sarsaparilla, I determined to give it a ti-ial. 
I commence<l taking the Sarsaparilla, and at the end of a week 1 
found the bunch very much reduced. I continued usin<^ the Sarsapa- 
rilla until the bottle was finished, and by that time the bunch had 
almost entirely disappeared— being about the size of a pea. I think 
one more bottle will entirely cure me. I take great pleasure in add- 
ing my testimonial to the many remarkable ones you are receiving. 
Si-ncerely yours, MARIA S. KIMBALL. 

"We are All Going to Take It." 

Lowell, July 24, 1S77. 
Messrs. C. I. Hood & Co. 

Gentlemen :— Last May my attention was called to the remarkable 
cures of Hood's Sarsaparilla. My daughter at that time was suffer- 
ing with the worst case of scrofulous humor I ever saw. For several 
months she had a sore on her side as large as a good-sized dinner 
plate, which discharged a watery matter, which would dry and form 
a crust during the night. She was obliged to protect it by linen 
pinned to her clothing. Some nights it would itch so intensely she 
could not sleep. I got a bottle of Hood's Sarsaparilla and a box of 
Hood's Olive Ointment, and gave her half a teaspoonful of the Sarsa- 
parilla three times a day, after eating, and applied the Ointment at 
night. We followed this course faithfully ; in ten days it began to 
improve, and in five weeks it was entirely healed. The Ointment 
relieved the itching instantly. The dose being so small, it did not 
prove an expensive remedy, as one bottle performed tlie above cure. 
She will continue to take it through the summer and fall. I want 
two bottles; one for my sister, the other for mvself and daughter, for 
we are all going to take it. Yours, &c., Mrs. J. II. CONANT, 

144 3Ierrimack Corporation, Colburn Street. 



HoocTs Tooth powder presei'ves the teeth. 



BO 

TAPIOCA CREAMS, No. 2. 

tJover three tablespoonfals of tapioca over night with 
water; pour off the water, if any, and put into one quart 
of milk over the fire ; when it boils stir in the yolks of 
three eggs, two-thirds cup of sugar, a little salt, stir till it 
begins to thicken. Make a frosting of the whites of the 
eggs and spread over the top, sprinkle a little sugar over 
it and brown in the oven. 

A Georgia girl says Hood's Tooth Powder is the best. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE, ^No. 1. 

One-half pint of thick cream whipped to a froth, the whites 
of two eggs beaten to a froth, one cup of water with two 
spoonfuls of gelatine dissolved in it; sweeten to taste and 
flavor with vanilla or lemon. One loaf sponge cake, take 
a deep dish, line the dish with small strips of this cake, and 
pour the cream into the middle of the dish, put writing 
paper on the bottom of the dish. Let it remain until 
hardened, turn it out on a flat dish. 

This is a good time to take Hood's Sarsaparilla. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE, No. 2. 

Add six eggs well beaten to one quart boiling milk, one 
coffee cup of sugar, a bit of salt ; flavor to suit the taste 
with vanilla and a little brandy, then add one box of gela- 
tine dissolved in a pint of water. Set it away to cool and 
when it becomes the consistency of thick custard, add a 
pint of cream well beaten to a light froth. The gelatine 
must be warm when added to the custard, otherwise the 
jelly Avill be in lumps. Line the mould with small pieces 
of sponge cake, fill and put in a cool place. 

VELVET CREAM, No. 1. 

One box of gelatine with a teacup of wine poured over it ; 
set this over a teakettle of boiling water until dissolved ; one 
quart of cream sweetened with a coffee cup of sugar, into this 
pour dissolved gelatine, strain and pourinmoulds to harden. 



Mood's Sarsaparilla restores and renovates the whole system. 



40 

VELVET CREAM, No. 2. 

Put one-half box of gelatine in one quart of milk, with 
ths yolks of three eggs, on the stove ; stir until it comes 
to a soft Gu.stard. When cold beat the whites of the eggs 
to a froth, add six tablespooufuls of white sugar, one of 
flavoring, and stir in the mixture. 

Make your children clean their teeth with Hood's Tooth 
Powder. 

LEMON JELLY. 

One quart of water, four tablespooufuls of corn starch, 
one cotlee cup white sugar, flavor to taste with lemon. 
Dissolve tlie sugar in the lemon, also the starch ; cook as 
you would for boiled custards ; when cooked turn into an 
earthen dish ; let cool and then slip it into a platter. Beat 
the white of one egg with two tablespooufuls of sugar, 
spread this over the top of the jelly, put in the oven and 
brown slightly. Serve with cream and sugar. 

CHOCOLATE CREAMS. 

Take half a cake of unsweetened chocolate, grate and 
set over the teakettle ; while hot, drop in the cream moulds, 
which are made of two cups of sugar and half a cup of 
water ; boil three minutes ; after it begins to bubble remove 
from the stove and flavor M'ith vanilla, stir until cold 
enough to make into moulds ; alter the chocolate is added 
put them on buttered paper to harden. 

Hood's Sarsaparilla cures scrofulous humors. 

A DISPI OF SNOW. 

Select very juicy apples, pare and core them, stew them 
in clear water until soft ; strain through a sieve, sweeten 
to tase with powdered sugar. Spread this when cold in a 
deep glass dish. To every apple allow the white of one 
egg; beat the whites — with a tablespoouful of powdered 
sugar to one egg — to a stiff froth, and pour it over the 
apples. Any flavoring may be used. 



Thousands 2}raise Hood's Sarsaparilla. 



41 

THE PROSTRATION WHICH FOLLOWS 

DipJitJieria and Scarlet Fever, 

And the persistenc}"- -with which thcj- cling to the patient, are well 
known to all wlio have had any experience with these terrible dis- 
eases. The following letters show how the restoring and invigor- 
ating proi>erties of Hood's Sarsaparilla ■ overcome them, and 
how by vitalizing and enriching the blood it neutralizes and eradi- 
cates the poisoned matter from it, bringing to the convalescent the 
color, life and vigor of robust health. (See page 46.) 



A new use has been found for Hood's Sarsaparilla, or rather 
its application as a blood-purifier has been made in a new sort of 
cases. It is well known that diphtheria is a disease of a poisonous 
nature, and it frequently leaves the system of its victims tainted 
Avith its virus. As will be seen by a testimonial elsewhere (see page 
46) , the Sarsaparilla has l)een found to work a radical cure in a sys- 
tem debilitated and poisoned by this disease. The statement is a 
reasonable one and deserves attention.— Zotre/Z DmVv/ Courier. 

Scarlet Fever. 

Lowell, Mass., March 16, 1878. 
Messrs. C. I. Hood & Co. : 

Gentlemen— Allow me the pleasure of saying one word in favor of 
Hood's Sarsaparilla for the benefit of those suflering. Two 
years ago my daughter Mabel had scarlet fe-ver in its worst form, so 
bad that sonie of her finger-nails came oir. Her physician gave her 
lip, saying he had done ail he could for her; but she finally 
pulled "through. It left her in a very prostrated condition, with a 
running sore on her left ear, tlie discharge being very oflensive, also 
a difliculty of breathing through her nose, which disturbed her 
sleeping, waking her Irequently during the night and annoying her 
very life out of her. She continued in about this way up to'tlie time 
we tried your Sarsaparilla. We used various medicines, but nothing 
seemed to hit her case. Seeing Mi's. Sanborn's testimonial, and be- 
ing acquainted with the circumstances, we thought possibly Hood's 
Sarsaparilla might do Mabel good. I bought a bo'ttle, and 
she began to use it. Her appetite, Avhich had been dainty, im- 
proved at once, and she ate with a decided relish; the offensive dis- 
charge stopped; the sore healed; the trouble in the nose has 
entii-ely disappeared so that she sleeps like a log and breathes without 
difficulty. It has produced a complete renovation in her health. We 
are exceedinarly happy to see her growing positively better everj' 
day. The child's appi-eciation of the merlicine is quite reiMrkable; 
as for our own, we leave it for you and others to judge. 
Yerv trulv vours, 

ALBERT E. LIBBY, 

32 Third, cor. Rend St. 
C. I. noon & CO., Ai^otliecaries, Zowell, Mass. 

Trial bottle, .')0 cents; large bottle, $1.00; six bottles for $5.00. 

The Best family physic — Hood's Vegetable Fills.. 



42 

ICE CREAM, No. 1. 

One quart of new milk, one quart of cream, four eggs, 
three-fourths of a pound of sugar. Boil the milk, and add 
eggs and sugar well beateu together. When cold add 
flavoring and freeze. 

ICE CREAM, No. 2. 

One quart of cream, one pint of milk, one cup of sugar; 
flavor to taste. Beat the cream to a froth ; stir in the milk 
and sugar thoroughly and freeze. 

Worthy of notice : Hood's Tooth Powder. 

FliOSTING. 

Whites of two eggs beaten to a froth; add a cup of 
sugar and tablespoonful of powdered starch. 

CHOCOLATE FROSTING. 

Two squares of chocolate, one and a half cups of sugar, 
one-half cup of boiling water. Let it boil fifteen minutes. 

SPANISH CREAM. 

Dissolve one-third of a box of gelatine in three-fourths 
of a quart of milk for one hour, then put on the stove, 
and when boiling, stir in the yolks of three eggs beaten 
with three-fourths of a cup of sugar; wheu it is boiling 
hot remove from the fire, and stir in the whites of three 
eggs well beaten. Flavor to taste ; pour in moulds. 

Hood's Tooth Powder neutralizes the ofiensive secre- 
tions of the mouth. 

FRICANDELLES. 

Take c#d beef, veal, or any other meat, the more variety 
the better, hash it fine, and mix with it two eggs, a little 
grated onion, melted butter, two crackers pounded, pep- 
per, salt. Form into balls and fry in butter. Serve with 
drawn butter flavored with lemon. 



Invest 25 cents in a bottle of Hood's Tooth Powder, 



4§ 

SPICED BEEF. 

t'ive pounds of the shank, boiled five hours, with celery 
seed. Drain off the gelatine then, and chop the meat very 
fine, add pepper and salt to taste, and put it into a cloth, 
on a platter. Cover it with the cloth and press it. 

Hood's Sarsaparilla works wonders in the blood. 

SPICED BEEF, To Serve Hot. 

Fry three or four slices of pork a light brown ; then lay 
in the beef (the round is good for this purpose) in one 
piece. Let it brown a little on both sides ; then cover it 
with water, and let it stew over a moderate fire four or 
five hours in a covered kettle. Add water when it boils 
away to make gravy. About half an hour before it is 
done, salt and pepper it to taste ; add one teaspoonful of 
sweet marjoram, and if agreeable, one-half of an onion 
sliced. Pour the gravy over the beef when serving it. 

BAKED OMELET. 

Heat three gills of milk with a dessert spoonful of butter 
in it ; beat thoroughly four or five eggs ; wet a tablespoon- 
ful of flour and a teaspoonful of salt in a little cold milk. 
Mix the eggs with the flour and cold milk, then add the 
hot milk, stirring fast. Bake in a quick oven fifteen or 
twenty minutes. 

Hood's Tooth Powder prevents the accumulation of 
tartar. 

VEAL LOAF. 

Take three and one-half pounds of veal, fat and lean, 
one thick slice of fat salt pork ; chop the whole raw ; take 
six common crackers pounded fine, two eggs, one-half 
cup of butter, one tablespoonful of pepper, a little clove, 
and any herb to suit the taste. Mix all well together, and 
make into a loaf like bread ; put iuto a shallow baking pan 
with a little water, cover with bits of butter, and dredge 
flour over it; bake slowly two hours, basting it as you 
would meat. This is nice cut in thin slices for a tea dish, 
and it will keep good for some time. 

Mood*s Sarsaparilla invigorates the aged. 



44 

laflipstiflfl U DeMlitf Perinaneatly Cnrel 

Messrs. C. I. HOOD & CO. 

Gentlemen:— Seriously opposed to all patent medicines, it was 
after a great tleal of talk that 1 was persuaded to try Hood's Sarsa- 
parilla for my wife, who has been trouljled with indigestion and 
debility for several years, whicli had reallv rendei-ed her feeble. 
Finally I was induced, faithlesslv, to try one "bottle of Hood's Sarsa- 
parilla. Before she had taken all of this her health commenced to 
improve. She is now Uiking the fourth bottle, and her health has 
steadily and permanently improved, and 1 tirmly believe Hood's 
Sarsaparilla is entitled to the credit, and I most cheerfully and con- 
fidently recommend it to anv and all suflerinL;:. 

GEO. W. BOSWORTH. 

Amherst, X. H., Sept. IS, 1S77. 

^^^ HOOD'S SARSAPARILLA is a combiuatioii of 
remedies whose special ada>)tatioii to the cure of scrofula 
and cleansing the blood of impurities has been thoroughly- 
proven by time and trial. 

HUMOR IN TH^NOSE CURED. 

"DPlo£\,S£t3a.t to T^lsie." 

Lowell, Mass., Oct. 1, 1S77. 
Messrs. C. I. HOOD & CO. 

Dear Sirs:— Last fall my boy had a humor develop itself around 
his fingernails which would fester up, become very sore and the nail 
come olf; finally it left his fingers and went to his nose, first inside, 
and at last reaching down on the outside of the nostril, near the lip. 
We used various remedies without benefit. His general health be- 
came very much impaired. 1 went to my family physician (Dr. 
Green), and he ordered sarsapardla. I got a bottle of your make 
(Hood's Sarsaparilla) and.in five or six weeks it began to heal and 
continued to steadily till entirely well, and his sickly, puny look 
changed to one of vigor and health. He has taken it most of the 
tnne since, as I am desirous of eradicating this humor entirely from 
his blood. It is exceedingly commendatory of your Sarsaparilla 
that it is so pleasant to take that he really likes it and will call for it. 
Very truly yours, 

JOHN G. ROGERS. 

(Firm of Stiles, Rogers & Co., Flour, Grain, &c., Market Street.) 

Hood's Tooth Poioder is perfectly safe. 



45 



OMELET. 

Six eggs; beat the yolks and whites separately, one 
table-spoonful flour, mix smoothly with a little milk, a 
little salt, one small teacup sweet milk. Beat all thor- 
oughly together, adding the whites last. Pour into a 
buttered spider ; when partly done, double it like a turn- 
over. 

OMELET SOUFFLE. 

One pint sweet milk, made boiling hot, one cup of flour, 
mixed very smoothly in a little cold milk, one spoonful 
sugar, piece of butter size of a walnut. Stir all into the 
boiling milk till it is quite stifi" (this can be done early in 
the morniug.) When cool stir in the yolks of five eggs, 
thoroughly beaten, adding the whites last, also thoroughly 
beaten. Bake half an hour. 

Hood's Sarsaparilla gives, an appetite. 

HODGE PODGE. 

Four quarts chopped green tomatoes, one quart chopped 
onions, one coffee cup chopped green peppers, one coffee 
cup white mustard seed, one coffee cup salt. Put tlie salt 
on the tomatoes and let stand over night ; drain them and 
add the other ingredients. Cover the whole with cold, 
sharp vinegar. 

FOR CURING TONGUE OR BEEF. 

One-half ounce of potash, one-half ounce saltpetre, one 
pound brown sugar, one and a half pounds of rock salt. 
For twenty-five or thirty pounds. 

Hood's Tooth Powder should be used by every one. 

PICKLE FOR HAM. 

Four gallons water, six pounds salt, two and a half 
pounds of sugar, two and a half ounces saltpetre. Boil 
aud skim the pickles ; put the hams in when perfectly 
cold; let them remain in the pickle six weeks. This is 
suflicient for fifty or sixty pounds. 



Hood's Sarsaparilla vjorks wonders in the blood. 



46 

DIPHTHERIA, 



Messrs. C. I. Hood & Co., Lowell, Mass. : 

Gentlemen— My little girl had the diphtheria last April. The dis- 
ease left her verj' weak, blood poor, Avith no appetite, and she could 
not seem to rally from its efl'ects. Hood's Saksaparilla was 
recommended by a neighbor. Alter she had been taking it a few 
days we noticed a change for the better— she began to eat with a 
rel'ish. It seemed to take out the poison the disease had left in her 
blood, the change being veiy noticeable in her face. She took it two 
months and fully regained her health, much to our delight. Wc now 
recommend Hood's Sarsaparilla with a great deal of pleasure. 
Very truly yours, 

J. R. SMITH, 

19 Butterlield St., Lowell, Mass. 



KIDNEY COMPLAINT. 

Dracut, Mass., March 18, 1878. 
Messrs. C. I. Hood & Co., Lowell, Mass. : 

Dear Sirs— I have suffered from kidney complaint and biliousness 
for" fifteen years. Have tried everything and never got any good. 
Last January, before I commenced taking Hood's Sarsaparilla, 
everything Tate liloated me all up ; pain in my chest and arms, back- 
ache, dizzy. I could not get up without feeling weary and all 
lagged out." ISlany mornings I was obliged to lie down on the lounge. 
To do any work seemed almost impossible. Have taken two bottles. 
That backache, dizziness, pain in the chest and arms, and that feel- 
ing of intense Avearinoss, are all gone. I can eat anything, and it 
does not press me at all. Feel just like work — in fact, like a new 
man. Can heartily recommend Hood's Sarsaparilla, and hope 
all who desire to know anything about it, will come to me and ask 
what I think of it. Very truly vours, 

JONATHAN J. COBURX. 



Hood's Sarsaparilla is 50 Cts. Trial Size ; $1 Regular 
Size ; Sis Bottles for $5. 

C. I, JBCOOD i& CO., Apothecaries, 

LO^ATELL, MASS. 
Try HooiVs Vegetable Pills, a purely vegetable cathartic. 



\ 



47 

TO STUFF AND BAKE FI^H. 

Soak bread in cold water until soft ; drain it, mash it fine, 
and mix the bread with a spoonful of drawn butter, a little 
salt and pepper (two raw eggs make the dressing cut 
smoother), and some spices if liked. Fill and sew up the 
fish ; put a teacup of water in a bake pan, and a little but- 
ter ; place in the fish and bake about forty or fifty minutes. 
Bass, shad and fresh cod are good fish for baking. 

Hood's Sarsaparilla builds up the system while it eradi- 
cates disease. 

STEWED OYSTERS. 

Put one quart oysters and one-half pint water Into a tin 
pail and set it into a kettle of boiling water ; let it boil till 
the oysters are cooked, then strain, putting the oysters 
into a soup tureen and the liquor back into the pail, and 
add to it one pint milk, set in water as before, and heat 
boiling hot, seasoning with salt and pepper. Add to the 
oysters a piece of butter the size of an e<f^g', lastly pour 
the hot liquor on the oysters. 

LOBSTER SALAD. 

Four eggs, one tablespoonful of sugar, two of butter, 
one of salt, two of vinegar, one of mustard; beat the 
whites of the eggs separately and add last. Cook in a 
bowl set in a kettle of water, stirring until it thickens. 
When cold add cream enough to make as thin as boiled 
custard. Add salt and red pepper to the chopped lobster 
and lettuce. 

Invest 25 cents in, a bottle of Hood's Tooth Powder. 

STEWED LOBSTER. 

Cut the lobster in pieces about an inch square. Place 
them in a stew pan, and over them pour a cup of water; 
put in butter the size of an egg, pepper and salt to the 
taste. Mix also with it the green dressing of the lobster, 
and stir it about ten minutes over the fire. Just before 
taking off* add two wineglasses of port or sherry. Let it 
scald, but not boil. 



True testimonials on another ^age as to HoocVs Sarsaparilla^ 



48 



Why Suffer with Salt Rheum? 



Messrs. C. I. HOOD & CO., Lowell, Mass. 

Gentlemen :— I was a gi'cat sufferer from Salt Rheum on my limbs, 
for a dozen j-ears previous to the summer of 1S76, at which time 1 was 
cured by Hood's Sarsaparilla. The skin Avould become dry, chap, 
crack open, bleed and itch intensely, so that I could not help scratch, 
ing, which of course made tliem worse. At the time I commenced 
taking Hood's Sarsaparilla (in the summer of 187G), they were so 
bad that they discharged, and I was obliged to keep them bandaged 
with linen cloths. The skia -was drawn so tight by the heat of the 
disease that if I stooped over tliey would crack open and actually 
bring tears into my eyes. The first bottle benefited me so much that 
I continued taking it till I was cured. I used one box of Hood's Olive 
Ointment, to relieve the itching. Hoping many others may learn the 
value of Hood's Sarsaparilla and receive as much benefit as I have,, 
I am, A'ery truly yours, 

MKS. S. S. MOODY, 

Lowell, Mass., January 15th, 1878. No. 75 Broadway. 



FROM THE 

^^ Jjowell Daily Citizen and News,^^ 



"The enterprising firm of Hood & Co. are doing a 
rushing business in HOOD'S SARSAPARILLA and 
HOOD'S TOOTH POWDER, both well known and ap- 
preciated by thousands who -have tested their efficacy 
The Sarsaparilla has effected wonderful cures, not only 
in this city, but in various parts of New England, where 
its merits are as well known as here." 

flood's Tooth Powder is in everybody's mouth. 



49 



LOBSTER SAUCE. 

three minutes ; mix with them a tea- 
spoonful of water and the spawn of the lobster; rub 
smooth and stir in a teaspoonful of mustard, six spoon- 
fuls of drawn butter or salad oil, a little pepper and salt, 
and live spoonfuls of vinegar. Cut the Lobster into A^ery 
small pieces, and stew it till tender. 
Hood's Sarsaparilla gives tone to the stomach. 

PICKLED PEACHES. 

One-half peck peaches, two pounds brown sugar, one 
ounce stick cinnamon, one pint vinegar. Boil sugar and 
vinegar together twenty minutes. Put peaches in hot 
water for an instant, and on taking them out rub the fur 
off with a coarse towel; now stick four cloves in each 
peach, then put them in the syrup and boil till tender. 

SCALLOPED OYSTERS. 

Sprinkle a buttered dish with bread or cracker crumbs, 
then put in a layer of oysters, some bits of butter, a little 
pepper and very little salt, and so on until the dish is full, 
leaving crumbs and butter on the top. Pour over the top 
a little wine. Bake until a light brown. 

Hood's Tooth Powder gives the gums a bright, healthy 
color. 

PRIED OYSTERS. 

Select the largest, dip them in beaten egg, and then in 
bread or cracker crumbs ; fry in equal parts of butter and 
lard until they are brown. They are very good dipped in 
corn meal instead of crumbs. 

PICKLED OYSTERS. 

One quart vinegar, one ounce of allspice, one-half ounce 
of cinnamon, one ounce of cloves, one ounce of mace ; 
scald all together ; when cold put in the oysters ; next 
day scald together. 

. Noio is the time to try Hood's Sarsaparilla^ 



50 

CHICKEN SALAD- 

Boil, bone and chop fine three chickens; use chopped 
ccleiy ; take equal quantities of meat and salad and mix 
with the following dressing : yolks of three esirs, stir 
them with a fork, then stir in slowly a cup of melted but- 
ter; do not put in taster than will mingle nicely. Salt to 
taste, and add a teaspoonful of powdered sugar, a cup of 
vinegar and a pinch of red pepper. 

Hood's Sarsaparilla cures scrofulous humor. 

SALAD CREAM DRESSING. 

Two even tablespoonfuls dry mustard, one teaspoonful 
salt, one teaspoonful powdered sugar; scald with hot 
water enough to mix. Pour in the oil slowly, beating all 
the time, drop in all the oil it will contain, put in three 
unbeaten eggs and beat all together ; now add one-half cup 
of vinegar and then two-thirds cup milk ; put over the fire 
and bring to a boil, stirring constantly. Strain if you 
wish. 

COFFEE. 

The best coffee is made from Mocha and Java, mixed. 
To a pint of coftee add a gallon of water and three eggs. 

Decorate your mouth with pearly teeth by using Hood's 
Tooth Powder. 

MEAD. 

Three pounds of white sugar ; pour three pints of boil- 
ing water over it, one pint of molasses, one-fourth pound 
tartaric acid, one ounce of sassafras. To be bottled and 
used as a syrup with soda. 

FLAX SEED TEA. 

Put to two tablespoonfuls whole flax seed a pint of 
boiling water, and boil fifteen minutes ; cut up one lemon 
and put in a pitcher with two tablespoonfuls of sugar. 
Strain the tea boiling hot through a wire strainer into the 
pitcher and stir together. Good for cough and sore throat. 

Jlood's Tooth Powder removes tartar from the teethe 



51 

BOILED CIDER, 
l^ake four gallons of cider and boil it to one galloii. 
SHAI^ER, OR BOILED CIDER APPLE SAUCE. 

Eor one bushel of sweet apples use one gallon of boiled 
cider; put the cider into a brass or tin boiler, wash and 
drain the apples, then put them into the boiler and cover 
tight. If the boiler will hold one bushel of apples, two 
hours should be given for cooking. Care should be taken 
that they do not cling to the boiler or scorch ; cook very 
slow over a moderate heat, but steady ; do not stir them 
while cooking. 

To remove all humors of the blood use Hood's Sarsa- 
parilla. 

HOOD'S RASPBERRY VINEGAR 

Should be used at every picnic, in every sick room, and on 
every sideboard, because it quenches tliirst at once. It 
forms with ice water a refreshing, healthful beverage, and 
its delicious flavor is especially appreciated by invalids. 
Physicians prescribe it. Prepared only by C. I. Hood & 
Co., opposite Postoffice, Lowell, Mass. 

RIPE CUCUMBER PICKLE. 

Take large yellow cucumbers, pare them, take out the 
cores and soak in salt water two days. Then take them 
out of the brine, pour over them boiling water, and let 
them stand over night. Pour oflT this water and they are 
ready for the pickle, which prepare thus : For each quart 
of sharp vinegar, take one pint of hot water, two large 
cups of sugar, and one tablespoonful each of the follow- 
ing spices : cinnamon, cloves, allspice, black pepper, mace 
or nutmeg. Add a handful of raisins or ripe grapes. 
Scald all together and boil until the cucumbers are easily 
penetrated with a fork. Use as little of the vinegar as 
possible to boil them in, and pour the rest over them when 
done. 

SWEET PICKLE. 

Seven pounds of fruit, two pounds of sugar, one quart 
of vinegar, two ounces of cassia buds or cloves. 



We know Hood's Sarsaparilla is worth your trial. 



5f2 
THOSE PEOPLE 

Who are suffering from scrofulous sores are 
specially requested to read 3Iiss Whittier's tes- 
timonial on i>age 123 of Hood's Cook Book, 



A FARMER IN VERMONT 
Who had a CAXCER CUT OUT some years 
ago, tells us that he can do double the work 
when he takes IIood"'s Sarsaparilla. 



"EAT, SLEEP AND WORK." 
A carpenter out of health and seriously 
troubled with blood-shot eyes and intiamed lids, 
tells us: "Hood's Sarsaparilla has done every- 
thing for me ; can eat, sleep and work now, 
and my eyes are nearly well."' 



Hood's Sarsaparilla is prepared only by 

C. r. HOOD & CO., Apothecaries, 

LOWELL, MASS. 

Trial Size, 50 cents ; large bottles, Sl.OO. 

Hood's Tooth Poicder lohitens the teeth. 



58 

GREEN CUCUMBER PICKLEg. 

For a half bushel cucumbers, take a pint of coarse saltj 
dissolve iu water enough to cover the cucumbers, pour it 
boilin,i^ hot upon them, let them stand twenty-four hours, 
pour the brine off, and reheat two successive mornings. 
The fourth morning drain off the brine, and pour on Iwiling 
water; let them stand twenty-four hours, then if the 
cucumbers are not filled out plump, pour in boiling water 
again. When the cucumbers are all filled out plump the.y 
are ready for the vinegar. Place them in the jar in which 
they are to be kept, and as they are packed place in little 
bags containing whole allspice, cloves, cinnamon and 
mustard. Put a little horse-radish root among the cucum- 
bers. Heat vinegar enough to cover the cucumbers, with 
a piece of alum dissolved in it, pour it over them boil- 
ing hot. Cover tight. 

Hood's Sarsaparilla imparts new life to all the functions 
of the body. 

SPICED CURRANTS. 

Seven pounds currants, four pounds sugar, one pint 
vinegar (if of average strength), one tablespoonful of 
cinnamon, one tablespoonful of cloves, one teaspoonful 
allspice. Give it two hours or more slow boiling. 

PICKLED APPLES. 

One quart vinegar, six cups brown sugar, one teaspoon- 
ful each of cloves, cinnamon, allspice ; boil vinegar and 
sugar together, skim it, then add the spices. Boil iu this 
syrup sweet apples cut in halves and not pared, till soft, 
but not till they break. 

TOMATO KETCHUP. 

Eight quarts of strained tomato, six tablespoonfuls of 
black pepper, six tablespoonfuls of salt, four tablespoon- 
fuls mustard, one tablespoonful ground cloves, ouq table- 
spoonful yellow ginger, one quart vinegar, one~haif cup 
of brown sugar, one tumbler of brandy. Boil very slowly 
imtil the quantity is reduced nearly one-half. Put into 
bottles. 

Hood's Sarsaparilla gives life and vigor to the toeak. 



64 

The j^rdi^i-ietors bf Hood's Sarsaparilla take 
great pleasure in hearing of the remarkable cures 
effected by the use of their Sarsaparilla. Yester- 
day we were told of a young lady who had 
been a great sufferer for several years with a 

terhible scnoFULous sore on 

HER LEG, Six bottles Hood's Sarsaparilla has 
entirely cured it ; and any one having a similar 
affliction can appreciate how happy she is now. 
An elderly lady who has been and is still a 
great sufferer from one of these awful scrofulous 
sores or ulcers on her leg, which seems more like 
a cancer than anything, tells us that she has used 
half a bottle — in one-half teaspoonful doses — her 
general health is very much better, the discharge 
from her sore has not been so offensive since the 
first week after taking Hood's Sarsaparilla ; 
sleeps better nights; her food does not distress 
her as before, and when the sore bleeds the 
blood has a bright, healthy color, and before it 
was verv black and thick. 



Hood's Sarsaparilla is prepared only b}' 

C. L HOOCb & CO., = ^ Apothecaries, 

Trial size, 50 cents ; large bottles, $1.00. 

Hood's Tooth Powder is delightful to use. 



66 

TOMATO CHOW CHOW. 

Slice one peck green tomatoes, six green peppers, four 
onions ; stir in a cup of salt and let them remain over 
night. Then pour ofi' the water, put them in a kettle with 
vinegar enough to cover them. Add one cup of grated 
horse-radish, one tablespoonful of cloves, one tablespoon- 
ful of cinnamon, one tablespoonful of allspice, one cup of 
sugar ; cook until soft. 

Scrofula and salt rheum have been cured by Hood's 
Sarsaparilla. 

TOMATO PICKLE. 

One gallon sliced tomatoes, the greener the better ; salt 
them ia layers, and let them stand over night ; in the morn- 
ing drain them well ; slice four large onions ; put a layer 
of tomatoes in the vessel, then a few slices of onion ; pro- 
ceed in this manner until they are all put in ; cut six green 
peppers very fine and spread over the top ; take one table- 
spoonful black pepper, one tablespoonful allspice, two 
tablespoon fuls of cloves, three tablespoonfuls mustard; 
put in a bag and boil in the vinegar till the strength is 
extracted, then put the bag on the top of the pickles, pour 
on boiling vinegar enough to cover them. Cover the ves- 
sel tightly and let it stand three weeks without opening, 

CITRON PICKLE. 

Pare and cut citron into such pieces as you like ; boil in 
water with a very small piece of alum, until tender, then 
drain ; boil together for ten minutes three quarts of vin- 
egar, four pounds of sugar and one-fourth pound of cassia 
buds ; put in the citron and boil five minutes. 

Hood's Tooth Powder is praised by everybody. 

CHILI SAUCE. 

Six large, ripe tomatoes, four green peppers, one onion, 
one tablespoonful of sugar, one tablespoonful of salt, one 
and a half cups strong vinegar ; chop peppers and onions ; 
boil one hour. 



Uood's Sarsaparilla sharpens, the appetite^ 



56 

Chelsea, Vt., Sept., 1877. 
Messrs, C. I. Hood & Co., Lowell. 

Dear Sirs :— I have used Hood's Saponaceous Tooth Powder 
in my practice fur several years and can assure the public that it is 
an article Avorthy their entire confidence. It combines all the 
materials rcf|uisite for a safe ai;d efllcacious dentifrice, put together 
in sucli a manner as to cleanse the teeth thoroughly, harden the 
gums, and give them a bright color, and its di liglitful fragrance 
leaves a peculiar, refreshing sweetness in the mouth, 
llespectfully yours, 

O. M. EICE, Dentist. 



SCIENTIFIC EXAMINATIONS PROVE 

Hood's Stipoiiaceoiis Tool Powder 

The most effectual in destroying the animal and vegetable 
parasitic animalcuhe, Avhich are the cause of decay audare 
found to exist on nearly all teeth. 

Hood's Tooth Powder is so happily put up as to offer 
to every one the means for cleansing, beautifying and pre- 
serving their teeth and gums, at small expense. The 
l)eculiar sweetness it imparts to the breath, and the 
delightful cool sensation it leaves in the mouth, render its 
use exceedingly pleasant. The assurances of its entirely 
harmless nature, which we give from eminent men, should 
be sufficient to satisfy any reasonable mind. 

Hood's Tootii Powder receives the sanction and 
patronage of the most eminent of the dental and medical 
faculty. 

Hood's Tooth Powder should be used by every man, 
woman and child, for good health depends upon cleanli- 
ness, and A^ilere is its necessity more apparent than in the 
mouth ? 

Hood's Tooth Powder is sold everyw^here iu large 
bottles at 25 cents. 



FKEPARED OKLY V.r 

C, I. HOO(b & CO., = - Apothecaries^ 



67 

CLARA'S CORN CAKE— NICE. 

JSutter size of an egg, tablespooiiful sugar, two eg^s, 
beat to a cream ; not quite a quart of milk ; flour to make 
as tliick as sponge cake, then add a large handful of 
Indian meal ; two teaspoonfuls yeast powder in the flour 
before mixing. 

IMPERIAL CAKE. 

One pound sugar, one pouud butter, one pound flour, 
One pound raisins, one-half pound almonds, one-half 
pound citron, A^ery little soda, eight eggs, mace to taste, 
wineglass of wine. 

FRUIT CAKE— EXTRA. 

One pound butter, one pound sugar, one pound flour, 
two pounds currants, two pounds raisins, one-half pound 
citron, eight eggs, one-half cup molasses, soda size of 
pea dissolved in molasses, mace, nutmeg, cinnamon and 
cloves to suit taste, wineglass of brandy. 

HEARTS AND ROUNDS. 

One cup butter, two cups sugar, one cup milk, three cups 
flour, five eggs, two even teaspoonfuls cream tartar, one 
even teaspoonful soda, citron. Flavor with lemon or vanilla. 
RIBBON CAKE. 

Two cups of sugar, three eggs, two-thirds of a cup of 
butter, one cup of sweet milk, three cups of flour, one 
teaspoonful of saleratus dissolved in the milk, add a little 
salt and flavor with essence of lemon or almond. Put 
half the above in two square oblong pans. To the 
remainder add one tablespoonful of molasses, one large 
cup of raisins stoned and chapped, a quarter of a pound 
of citron sliced, one teaspoonful cinnamon, half a tea- 
spoonful each clove and allspice, grate in a little nutmeg 
and add one spoonful of flour. Put into two pans of the 
same size and shape as those above. Put the sheets 
together while warm, alternately, with a little jelly or 
raspberry jam between. Cut in thin slices for the table. 
It will cut most easily the day after it is baked. It may 
be baked in one large pan without the fruit, pouring in the 
dark and light in alternate layers. AVhen baked thus it is 
a handsome marble cake. 

Hood's Sarsaparilla restores and renovates the whole system. 



58 

A lady having a CAXCEROUS HUMOR IN 

THE STOMACH is using Hood's Sarsaparilla, 
and tells us she is \qvj much encouraged, and 
thinks it is doinor her a cfreat deal of jjood. She is 
now taking the second bottle. A young lady who 
had been a great sufferer from PAIN IX THE 
BOXES of her arm and shoulder and through her 
lungs, her general health yery poor, no appetite, 
and her friends feared she was going into a decline, 
as her family haye died of consum^Dtion, has taken 
nearly two bottles Hood's Sarsaparilla ; has no pain 
now, has a good apj^etite and is steadily improying. 
"We could add to these, remarkable as they may 
seem, almost an infinite number, if we would note 
them do^^•n as one after another, in their gratitude 
for the relief and benefit receiyed, tell us their 
story. 



Hood's Sarsaparilla is prepared only by 

C. I. HOOD & CO., Apothecaries, 

LOWELL, MASS. 
Trial size, 50 cents; large bottles, $1.00. 

HoocCs Sarsaparilla restores flesh ; see page 25. 



50 

What Lowell Dentists say of 

Hood's Tooth Powder. 



Lowell, Mass., Jan. IS, 1878. 

Gentlemen : — ^Ye have made a critical examination of 

Hood's Saponaceous Tooth Powder, and can assure the 

public that it docs not contain anything that can possibly 

injure the teeth, cither mechanically or chemically. 

Very truly yours, 

G. A. GEKRY, Five Cent Savings Bank Block. 

A. T. JOHNSON, Wentworth's Bl®ck. 
G. A. W. VINAL, Wentworth's Block. 
C. T. CLIFFORD, Stott's Block. 

W. H. DOWNS, Fiske's Block. 

B. HEALD, o2}4 Merrimack Street. 
E. M. NELSON, 84 Merrimack Street. 

To Messrs. C. I. Hood & Co., Lowell, Mass. 



Hands that Crack Open and Bleed Cured. 



A few days since a lady, while buying her third bottle of Hood's 
Sarsaparilla, remarked : "Without any cxijcctation that your Sar- 
saparilla -would help my hands, from which 1 have suflered exceed- 
ingly for many years, of Salt Rheum, whicli would cause them to 
itch terribly, dry up, finally crack open and bleeil, I bought a bottle 
at the eai'nest solicitation of my husband, Avho had known of Mrs. 
Moody's wonderful cure. (See page 48.) You can hardly imagine 
my delight when they began to heal. Before 1 commenced the 
second bottle they were entirely well, and have not troubletl me 
since. I shall continue to t;ike it till I have used six bottles, for I 
want to purify my blood thoroughly, and 1 have an immense amount 
of faith in Hood's Sarsaparilla now, and with good reason." 



Jlood's Tooth Fowder removes tartar from the teeth* 



60 



You should gladly send a testimonial of the benefits 
you have received from the use of Hood's Sarsaparilla to 
C. I. Hood & Co., Lowell, Mass. 

First, because it is a duty you owe to others who are 
now suffering as you were before you found relief in this 

valuable remedy. 

• 

Second, because there are so many worthless remedies 
puffed up by bogus certificates, that the fact that there is 
one of real worth is of great importance to the public. 



135 Howard St., Lowkll, Mass., Jan. 17, 1878. 
Messrs. C. I. IIood & Co. 

Gentlemen :— I liave used Hood's Sarsaparilla in my family for 
Scrofulous Humor with wonderful suceess and am very happy to tell 
j'on that it is the bestmeiJicine we ever used. 1 do t-incerely advise 
any one who is troubled with .Scrofula to give this valuable remedy 
a trial and assure them they will not be disappointed. 

\'ery truly yours, 
(Coburn Shuttle Co.) C. C. PICKERING. 



Piiiiples on tlie Ftice Reiiioved 

Mt. Washington St., Jan. 17th, 1S7S. 
Gextlemex :— 

Last summer I got a bottle of Hood's Sarsaparilla for my 
son, who has been very much troubled with pimples on his fiice, 
which came to a white fester on the top. While using this bottle 
they came freer, but before he had finishetl it they entirely disap- 
peared and have not returned. I cheerfully recommend" Hood's 
Sarsaparilla as a reliable medicine. 

Very truly yours, 

AI.EXANDER ANDERSON, 



NO T ICE. —If you have Hood's Cook 
Book, please give this to your neighbor, 

INDEX. 



YEAST AND BREAD. 

Yeast, 5 

Brown Bread, 5 

Bread, 7 

BREAKFAST & TEA CAKES, 

Breakfast Cakes, 8 

Muffins, 8 

Corn Cake, 8 

Jokers, 10 

Jennie Lunges 8 

Buckwheat Cakes 10 

Rye Cakes, 7 

Barker House Rolls, 8 

Scrofula, 23 

Graham Rolls, 10 

Rolls, 10 

Jennie's Sally Lund Gems, 11 

Newport Cakes, 10 

Jenny LindDrop Cakes, 11 

Pop ()ver.<, 12 

Oat Meal Cakes, 11 

Rye Breakfast Cakes, 11 

Gems, 12 

Apple Fritters, 12 

Appetite, 16, 25 

Clara's Corn Cake, 57 

CAKE. 

Mary Ann's Cream Cakes, 12 

Plain Dark Cake, 12 

Gold Cake, 12 

Salt Rheum (hands itch),.. .48, 59 

Silver Cake, 14 

Chocolate Cake, 14, 15 

White Mountain Cake 14 

Hermit Cakes, 15 

Cocoanu tCake, 11 



Marble Cake, 14 

Lily Cake 15 

Queen's Cake, 15 

Danbury, or Gold and Silver 

Cake,." 15 

Indigestion and Debility, 

9, 25, 41, 44 

Raised Cake, 17 

Sponge Cake, 17 

Corn Starch Cake, 17 

Jelly Cake, 20 

Buttermilk Cake, 18 

Delicious Cake 18 

Circle Cake, 18 

TMolasses Gingerbread 21 

Hard Gingerbread 21 

Ginger Snaps, 21 

Doughnuts 21,22 

Pancakes, 18 

Skeletons, 20 

Raisin Cake, 21 

Election Cake, 17 

Buns ,22 

Delicate Cake, 20 

Cookies, 22 

Hickory Nut Cake, 20 

Chapin Cake, 18 

Park Street Cake, 20 

Coffee Cake, 18 

Ai-e vou Aware, 38 

Tumbler Cake, 20 

Wafers, 24 

Fruit Cake, 24, 57 

Clove Cake, 24 

Lemon Cake,. 24 

Hands Itch, 48 

I ce Cream Cake, 26 

New York Cup Cake 26 

Imperial Cake 57 

Heai'ts and Rounds, 57 

Ribbon Cake, 57 

Wedding Cake, 26 



Mood's Tooth Powder, the cheapest and best. 



62 




Laiipor, Lassitude, 



And that low state of the system peculiar to the 
spring season, are relieved by the 

Jtestoring^ 

Renovating^ 

Invigorating, 

Enriching f 

Appetizing and 

Toning Properties 

OF 

HOOD'S Sarsaparilla ! 

Trial Size, Fifty Cents. 

Ladies, when you need a remedy to vitalize and enrich 
your blood, to tone up your system, to renovate and 
restore all the functions of your body, use Hood's Sarsa- 
parilla. It has been eminently successful in all such 
cases, and will not disappoint you if you give it a fair 
trial. 

50 cents and $1,00 a Bottle, 



TKEPARED ONLY BY 

C. I. HOOD & CO., APOTHECARIES, 

Barristers* Hall, Lowell, Mass, 

Hood's Tooth Powder gives to the teeth a pearly lohiteness^ 
and, to the gums a bright^ healthy color. 



63 



PIES AND PUDDINGS. 

Peach Pie 28 

Crejim Pies, 28, 30 

Cream or Cocoanut Pie, 28, 35 

Currant Wine Pie, 22 

Queen of Puddings, 20 

Four Fruit Pudding, 27 

Suet Pudding, 28 

Orange Pudding, 27 

Lemon Pudding, 27 

Lemon Pie, 30 

Raisin Pie, 30 

Delmont Pudding 27 

Apple Puffs ; I 

Gold and Silver Pudding, ."U 

Plum Pudding, 3.J 

German Toast, oJ 

Cottage Pudding, 28, 33 

Puddi !ig Saucc, 30 

Rice Pudding 31 

English Pudding 33 

Salem Pudding, 3"i 

Cocoanut Pie, 3 > 

Victoria Fritters 33 

Pudding Sauce, 30, 35 

Ess Sauce 35 

FANCY DISHES. 

Caramels, 3G 

English Gelatine, 3G 

Oran ge Gelatine 30 

Coffee Custard 37 

Chocolate Cust ird 37 

Chocolate Candy 37 

Wine Jelly 36, 37 

Lemon Jelly, 40 

Charlotte liusse, 30 

Tapioca Cream 37, 39 

Velvet Cream, 39, 40 

Spanish Cream, 42 

A Dish of Snow, 40 

Ice Cream, 42 

Frosting, 42 

Chocolate Frosting 42 

Chocolate Creams, 40 

Hood's Sarsaparilla, 

23, 29, 38, 44, 48, 52, 54. CO, G2 



MISCELLANEOUS. 

Soups, 3,4 

Spiced Beef, 43 

Spiced Beef— to serve hot, 43 

Fricandelles, 42 

Baked Omelet, 43 

Omelet, 4- 45 

Omelet Souflle, 45 

To Stuff and Bake Fish 47 

Veal Loaf, 43 

For Curing Tongue or Beef,. . .45 
See what Lowell Dentists say,. 59 

Pickle for Ham, 45 

Chicken Salad, 50 

Lobster Salad, 47 

Stewed Lobster, 47 

Lobster Sauce, 49 

Scalloped Oysters 49 

P'ried Ovsters, 49 

Pickled Oysters, 49 

Stewed Oysters, 47 

Salad Cream Dressing 50 

Boiled Cider, 51 

Shaker Apple Sauce 51 

DRINKS. 

Coffee 50 

Mead, 50 

Flax Seed Tea 50 

Raspberry Vinegar 51 

PICIiLES. 

Pickled Peaches, 49 

Ripe Cucumber Pickles, 51 

Green Cucumber Pickles, 53 

Spiced Currants, 53 

Pickled Apples 53 

Tomato Ketchup, 53 

Tomato Chow Chow, 55 

Tomato Pickle, 55 

Sweet Pickle 51 

Citron Pickle, 55 

Chili Sauce, 55 

Hodge Podge, 45 

Hood's Tooth Powder, 

4, 29, 56, 59, 64 



Ladies, remember that HoocVs Sarsaparilla vitalises and 
enriches the blood. 



64 

What leading Dentists say oj 
Hood^s Tooth Powder. 



The following from Dr. Gerrj^ one of our leading den- 
tists, a graduate of the Boston Dental College, M'itb 
twenty-fi\e years of practical experience, is worthy oi 
consideration : 

Lowell, Mass., Sept. 2.5, 1877. 
Gentlemen :— I have made a critical examination of Hood's Sapo- 
naceous Tooth I'owder, and can assure the public that it does not 
contain anythini? that can possibly injure the teeth, either mechani- 
cally or chemically. 

Very truly yours, 

G. A. GERRY, D. D. S. 
To Messrs. C. I. Ilood & Co., Lowell, Mass. 

One of the most successful dentists in Boston writes ".s 
as follows : 

Boston, Mass., Oct. 15, 1S77. 
Messrs. C. I. HOOD & CO., Lowell, Mass. 

My Dear Sirs :— I have used Hood's Tooth Powder in my family 
T\r\<^ recommended it to my patients for several years with excellent 
satisfaction to them and to myself. As a preserver and cleanser of 
thf teeth it can not be siu'passed. My knowledge of the materials of 
which it is made enables me to a.ssure the public that it is inipossil)le 
for it to do any injury to the teeth or gums. It aflords me much 
pleasure in commending it to all as a safe aud effective dentifrice. 
Very truly yours, 

THOMAS COGSWELL, D. D. S., 
Lawrence's Building, Tremout Street. 

This letter from Dr. Gerrish affords us much satisfaction, 
aud will inspire in the minds of all who have tlie 
pleasure of his acquaintance perfect confidence in Hood's 
Tooth Powder : 

Exeter, X. H., September, 1877. 
Messrs. C. L HOOD & CO., Lowell. 

Gentlemen :— It gives me much pleasm-e to commend Hood's Sapo- 
naceous Tootli Powder to the public. In my profession it has worked 
like a charm ; in my family and among my friends it has proveditself 
satisfactory in the highest possible degree. Delightful to use and so 
eflicacious in cleansing the teeth and hardening the gums that I pre- 
dict for you a sale that will rapidly increase as its real worth becomes 
more generally known. 

Very truly, 

CHARLES H. GERRISH, D. D. S. 

Every one having humors should try Hood's SarsaparUla. 



fioo(i'>< ^kf^kpkfiim 

CUKES SCEOFULA, 

CUKES SCKOFULOUS HUMOK. 
CURES SALT-KHEUM, 

CURES CANCEROUS HUMOR, 

CURES SCALD HEAD, 

CURES BOILS. 

CURES SYPHILITIC AFFECTIONS, 
CURES PAIN IN THE BONES, 
CURES GENERAL DEBILITY. 

CURES FEMALE WEAKNESSES. 
CURES COSTIVENESS, 

CURES HEADACHE. 

Hood's Sarsaparilla purifies the Blood of all Humors. 

Hood's Sarsaparilla vitalizes and enriches the Blood. 

Hood's Sarsaparilla restores and renovates the whole 
system. 

Hood's Sarsaparilla stimulates and invigorates all the 
functions of the body. 

A peculiar point in Hood's Sarsaparilla is that it strengtliens 
and builds up the system, while it eradicates disease, and as 
Nature's great assistant proves itself invaluable as a protection 
from diseases that originate in changes of the seasons, of climate 
and of life. 

I'KKPARED OXLY BY 

C. I. HOOD & CO., Apothecaries, 

Barristers' Hall, Lowell, Mass. 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 




014 485 480 9 f 




