
This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 
to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 
to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 
are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other marginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 
publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we have taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 

We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain from automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attribution The Google "watermark" you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liability can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 



at |http : //books . google . com/ 




I 




IN MEMOmAJA 
Prof e ssor J^ Heniy Senger 




Digitized by 



Google 



Digitized by 



Google 



JMT 



Digitized by 



Google 



-THE 



WORKSHOP COMPANION. 



A COLLECTION OF 



tSEPUL Am RELIABLE RECIPES, RULES, PROCESSES, 
METHODS, WRINKLES, AND PRACTICAL HINTS 



For tke Housekold and tte Stop. 



NEW YOBK: 
THE INDUSTKIAL PUBLICATION COMPANY. 

1887. 
Ckwvriolit secured according to Act of Congress, 1879. 



Digitized by 



Google 



r^ IN MENIORIAM 



'ffAtfs^cv -^ VNe^-vvA 



Digitized by 



Google 



PBE)ir»ACE. 



The following pages have been prepared with very great 
care, the chief aim being to give none but recipes which 
will not disappoint those who attempt to use them. Sev- 
eral of the recipes here given are original, the formulae 
having been worked out or improved by the author after 
much labor and experiment. In searching for really good 
formulae, we have been astonished at the errors which 
have crept into many of our standard books of recipes. 
For example, in one case the two separate operations of a 
well-known process for staining wood are given as distinct, 
and, of course useless recipes ! In a seemingly favorite re- 
cipe for a washing fluid, the reader is directed to add vine- 
gar to the ammonia employed, thus entirely neutralizing it. 
In the same way we find a recipe for transferring printed 
engravings to wood, in which the alkali (potash) is neutral- 
ized with vitriol ! We suppose that in the last case, the 
author of this recipe thought that two strong liquids must 
be better than one, forgetting or not knowing the fact that 
one destroys the effect of the other. A very slight knowl- 
edge of technological science would have enabled the com- 
l>ilers of these books to avoid such blunders. In addition 
to these defects, however, most of our large books of re- 
cipes contain so much that is entirely useless to the 
practical man, and so many mere repetitions of the same 
recipe in different language and terms, that their cost is 
greatly increased while their value instead of being en- 
hanced, is actually lessened. We have, therefore, en- 
deavored to combine in the following pages all that is 
really of practical value to the professional or amateur 
mechanic, and at the same time by giving only one or two 

iVll S2394 D 9' -^ ^v Google 



TV ~ PREFACE. 

of the best recipes under each head, we have not onlyjsim- 
plified the work, but we have brought it to sucb a size and 
price that every one can afford to buy it. 

The subjects treated of in this work are arrarged alpha- 
betically, so as to avoid the necessity of constant reference 
to the index. A few words in regard to the method pursued 
in arranging the matter may, however, not be out of place. 
As we believe that the greatest advantage will be derived 
from bringing together at one place not only the special 
instructions in regard to particular processes, but the 
general information relating to the materials, etc., em- 
ployed, we have in most cases collected all such matter 
together under one head. Thus, under the head of " Steel " 
will be found not only a description of the different kinds 
of steel, but directions for forging, tempering, etc., but as 
most persons who consult this book would most likely look 
under the head ** Tempering " for information on that par- 
ticular subject, we have entered the word '* Tempering " 
and under it give a cross-reference to " Steel. " This is the 
reason why we have introduced so many cross references, 
every one of which was put in after the book was written, 
so that the reader'will not be disappointed when he turns 
to the heading to which he is directed. Many of our read- 
ers, doubtless, know that in too many volumes of this kind, 
cross references are inserted merely for the purpose, of 
swelling the apparent amount of information contained in 
the volume, and very often when the reader turns to the 
heading to which he is directed, he finds that the subject 
which he is looking for has been omitted. In the present 
case, the utmost care has been taken to prevent disappoint- 
ment of every kind, and whenever information is promised 
we have endeavored to give it fully, accurately, and in the 
simplest possible language. 

New York, Nov. 1879. , 



Digitized by 



Google 



THE 

WORKSHOP COMPANION. 



Abyssinian Gold. 

This compound was so called because it was brought out 
in England during the recent war with Abyssinia. It consists 
of copper, 90*74 ; zinc, 8*33. This aUoy, if of good materials 
and not heated too highly, has a fine yellow color, resembling 
gold, and does not tarnish easily. 

Accidents. 

As those who are engaged in mechanical pursuits are pecu- 
liarly liable to accidents, we have introduced under the proper 
heads (Bums, Eye, Fires, Poisons) such brief suggestions as 
we thought might prove valuable to our readers. For more 
minute directions in regard to drowning, severe cuts, gunshot 
wounds, sprains, dislocations, etc., we must refer the reader 
to some one of the numerous treatises which have been pub- 
lished on this subject*. The following genei*al rules will be 
found useful in all cases : 

General Rules. 1. The first thing to be done in all cases 
is to send for a physician. While the messenger is gone, 
endeavor to make the patient as comfortable as possible, and 
save him from all exertion, remembering that he needs all his 
strengtli. 2. If there be any severe bleeding, stanch the 
blood by means of compresses applied to the veins or arteries, 
as the case may be. 3. If the patient be insensible, place him 
on the ground or floor, lying rather over to or directiy on one 
side, and with the head slightly raised. Remove necktie, 
collar, etc., and unbutton or split open any clothing pressing 

*One of the best is that issued by the publishers of this volume. It 
is entitled " Wiu*t to Po ail4 Uow tg Po it w Case of Accident." Priw 
Wc^ots. ^ . 

-. - CrOOgle 



tightly upon the neck, chest, or abdomen. 4. As a restora- 
tive, sprinkle the face with cold water, and then wipe it dry. 
Some cold water may be given to drink, if the power of swal- 
lowing be present, but do not pour stimulants down the 
throat, unless there be clear evidence that they are needed. 
5. Do not move the patient, unless to get him to a place of 
shelter, and when he has reached it, make him lie down and 
seek quiet. 6. Allow no useless talking, either to the x^atient^ 
or in his presence. 7. Cause the bystanders to move back 
and leave a clear space of at least ten feet in every direction 
around the patient. One of the best restoratives is fresh air, 
and a crowd cuts this off completely. 

Stimulants should be avoided, except in cases urgently de- 
manding their administration, but they are agents of much 
value in the treatment of that condition of collapse and faint- 
ness which very commonly occurs after some physical injur- 
ies. The symptoms may be briefly sketched : The face is 
pale and bedewed with cold or clammy perspiration ; the 
surface of the body generally cold ; the pulse flickering, per- 
haps hardly perceptible ; the patient complains of the feeling 
of faintness, and may have nausea, or even actual sickness ; 
the breathing is sighing and irregular, and for a time there 
may be actual insensibility. Now under such conditions 
there can be no question as to the propriety of inducing re- 
action by the administration of stimulants. 

Coffee given hot and strong, and in small quantities, is a 
safe and useful remedy. 

Spirituous liquors are more potent in their effects, and the 
good effect is produced more speedily. Brandy is the best 
spirit, given in more or less diluted form ; failing this, rum 
or wine may be given. If the spirits can be obtained only 
from some low grog shop, then whiskey is to be preferred to 
brandy or wine, as being less liable to adulteration. In ad- 
ministering these articles the best practical rule is to give a 
small quantity at first and watch the effect ; if the surface 
becomes warmer, the breathing deeper and more regular, and 
the pulse at the wrist more perceptible, then there can be no 
question as to the advantage of giving even a little more ; but 
if these signs of improvement are wanting — if there be in- 
crease of insensibility, and deepening of color about the face, 
with access of heat of skin — ^withhold alcohol entirely ; it will 
but add to the mischief. 

Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



THE WORKSHOP COMPANION. 11 

/• 

Alabaster. 

This material is so common and yields such beautiful re- 
sults when worked, that a few hints in regard to working and 
mending it may not be out of place. 

There are two distinct chemical compounds to which the 
name of alabaster has been applied, the most common being 
the sulphate of lime, while that known as orientrd alabaster is 
a stalagmitic carbonate of lime, compact or fibrous, generally 
white, but of all colors from white to brown, and sometimes 
veined with colored zones ; it is of the same hardness as 
marble, is used for similar purposes, and is wrought by the 
same means. 

Of the common alabaster (sulphate of lime) there are several 
varieties. The finest white alabaster is obtained from Italy, 
but very excellent specimens are found near Derby in Eng- 
land. (They must not, however, be confounded with Derby- 
shire or fluor spar which is a calcic fluoride. ) The variegated 
kinds are turned into pillars, vases and various ornamental 
forms, the tools used being very simple, namely, points for 
roughing out, flat chisels for smoothing, and one or two 
common firmer chisels, ground convex and concave for 
curved lines. After being brought to the proper shape, the 
work is polished as follows : T^e a piece of very fine, soft 
Bandstone, and apply it with water to the work while in quick 
motion, moving the stone all over until there is worked up a 
body of mud. Then take a clean rag and work this sludge 
well on the alabaster, after which wash the work clean. 
Apply a rag charged with putiy powder and water until there 
is a gloss upon the work, after which apply another rag 
charged with a mixture of putty powder, soap and water for 
a short time, and wipe the alabaster dry. If carefully per- 
formed the polish will be very beautiful. 

Alabaster readily absorbs grease and dirt, and as it is dif- 
ficult to clean, great care should be taken to prevent it from 
coming in contact with anything that will stain it. Dust, 
etc., may be removed by means of pure water to which a little 
ammonia has been added. Grease and similar stains may be 
removed by allowing the alabaster to lie for some time in 
contact with a paste of powdered chalk moistened with a solu- 
tion of potash or soda. Soap should never be used for clean- 
ing alabaster, as it leaves a greasy stain. Unlike marble. 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



12 THE WORKSHOP COMPANION. 

alabaster is not affected by common acids, and therefor© they 
may be used for extracting stains of common ink, etc. 

The proper cement for uniting pieces of alabaster is plaster 
of paris made into a cream with water as for making ordinair 
casts. The surfaces to be joined must ))e moistened with 
water. 

Alcohol. 

This familiar liquid reqtdres no description, but it may not 
be out of place to caution our readers that failure in the mak- 
ing of varnishes, etc., very often arises from the use of alcohol 
which by standing has lost its strength. Ordinary alcohol is 
a mixture of alcohol and water, and as the alcohol evaporates 
more readily than the water, when the mixture is allowed to 
stand for any length of time it becomes reduced in strength, 
that is to say the proportion of alcohol becomes less and that 
of the water more. 

Alloys. 

In making alloys, especially where the component metals 
vary greatly in fusibility and volatility, the following rules 
must be observed : 

1. Melt the least fusible, oxidable and volatile first, and 
then add the others heated to their point of fusion or near it. 
Thus if we desire to make an alloy of exactly one part copper 
and three zinc, it will be impossible to do so by putting these 
proportions of the metals in a crucible and exposing the 
whole to heat. Much of the zinc would fly off in vapor be- 
fore the copper was melted. First melt the copper and add 
the zinc which has been melted in another crucible. The 
zinc should be in excess, as some of it will be lost anyway, 

2. Some alloys, as copper and zinc, copper and arsenic, 
may be formed by exposing heated plates of the least fusible 
metal to the vapor of the other. In making brass in the 
large way, thin plates of copper are dissolved as it were in 
melted zmc until the proper proportions have been obtained. 

3. The surface of all oxidable metals should be covered 
with some protecting agent, as tallow for very fusible ones ; 
resin for lead and tin ; charcoal for zinc, copper, etc. 

4. Stir the metal before casting, and, if possible, when 
casting, with a whitewood stick ; this is much better for the 
purpose tha» an iron rod, 

, Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



THE WORKSHOP COMPANION. 13 

5. If possible, add a small portion of old alloy to the new 
one. If the alloy is required to make sharp eastings, and 
strength is not a very great object, the' proportion of old alloy 
to the new should bo increased. In all cases a new or 
thoroughly well cleaned crucible should be used. 

AJbata. — Known also as "British plate," "electrum," etc. 
It is a favorite material for making articles that are to be 
electrotyped. The best proportions of the ingredients are 
-^opper, 20 ;. nickel, 4 ; zinc, 16. 

AUoy for filling holes in Iron, — ^Lead, 9 ; antimony, 2 ; bis- 
muth, 1. This alloy is sometimes called ** mock iron;" it 
expands in cooling, so that when a hole is filled with the 
melted alloy, the plug is not loose when it is cold. 

AUoy for Uniting Iron, Steel and Brass. — The following com- 
position may be cast on steel or iron, and will adhere firmly 
thereto. Its rate of expansion is nearer that of iron and steel 
than any similar compound. When cast around iron or steel 
therefore, it closes firmly around them and does not become 
loose by alternate expansion and contraction. It consists of 
tin, 3 ; copper, 39^ ; zinc, 7 J. Since the last metal is pai*tly 
converted into vapor at a high temperature, the above jjro- 
portion may be slightly increased. 

Aluminium Bronze. — Copper, 90 ; aluminium, 10. Resem- 
bles gold in color, and is very strong and durable. 

Aluminium Silver. — Copper, 70 ; nickel, 23 ; aluminium, 7. 
Has a beautiful color and te.kes a high polish. 

Amalgam for Silvering the insides of Globes^ etc. — 1. Lead, 
2 oz. ; tin, 2 oz. ; bismuth, 2 oz. ; mercury, 4 oz. Melt the first 
three and add the mercury. The glass being well cleaned, 
is carefully warmed and the melted amalgam is poured in and 
the vessel turned round until all parts are coated. At a cer- 
tain temperature this amalgam adheres readily to glass. 

2. Bismuth, 8 ; lead, 5 ; tin, 3 ; mercury, 8. Use as directed 
for No. 1. i 

Amalgam far JE^edrical Machines.^-l. Tin, 1 oz. ; zinc, 1 oz. ; 
mercury, 2oz. i 

2. BoeUger's Am^am. — Zinc, 2 oz. ; mercury, 1 oz. At a 
certain temperature (easily found by experiment) it powders 
readily, and shoiUd be kept in a tightly corked bottle. Said 
to be very good. 

Cock jfeto/.— Copper, 10 ; lead, 4. Used for casting cocks. 

Copper Amalgam, — ^Dissolve 3 oz. sulphate of copper iu 



Digitized by 



Google 



14 THE WORKSHOP COMPANION* 

water and add 1 055. sulphtiHc acid. Hang clean iron scraps in 
the solution until the copper has fellen down in fine J)owdo]'. 
^VaBh this powder^ moisten it with a solution of J)rotonitrate 
of mercury > and then to each ounce of the powder add 2^ oz. 
mercury, and rub Ui) in a mortar. When thoroughly mixed, 
>vash wtall with hot water. This amalgam is easily moulded, 
adheres readily to glass, porcelain and some metals, takes iv 
line polish, and in 10 to 12 hours it becomes so hard that it 
will scratch gold or tin. When heated it softens, and may bo 
easily moulded. As it docs not contract on cooling, it has 
been Used by dentists for filling teeth, and it might be used 
to good advantage for inlaying lines in dark wood. 

ftt>konitrate of mercury is easily made by dissohing 
inei*onry in nitric acid. 

BabhUt's AiUi-AUrition Metal for lining Boxes. — ^Tirst melt 
four pounds of copper, and, when melted, add, by degrees^ 
twelve pounds best quality Banca tin ; then add eight pounds 
regulus of antimony, and then twelve pounds more of tin, 
while the composition is in a melted state. After the copper 
is melted and four or five pounds of tin have been added, 
the heat should be lowered to a dull red heat, in order to 
l)revent oxidation ; then add the remainder of the metal. 
In melting the composition it is better to keep a smaD 
quantity of powdered charcoal in the pot, on the surface of 
the metal. 

The above composition is made in the first place, and is 
called hardening ; for lining work take one pound of the 
hardening and melt with two pounds Banca tin, which pro- 
duces the very best lining metal. So that the proportions 
for lining metal are four pounds copper, eight regulus of anti- 
mony and ninety -six pounds tin. 

The object in first preparing the hardening is economy, for 
when the whole is melted together there is a great waste of 
metal, as the hardening is melted at a much less degree of 
heat than the copper and antimony separately. 

Belgian Antifriction Metals. — ^For work exposed to great 
heat : Copper, 17 ; zinc, 1 ; tin, 0*5 ; lead, 0*25. 

For parts liable to much concussion ; Copper, 20 ; zinc, 6 ; 
tin, 1. 

For parts exposed to much friction : Copper, 20 ; tin, 4 ; 
antimony, 0*5 ; lead, 0'25. 

Cheap Antifriction Metal, — ^Equal parts of zinc and lead 



Digitized by 



Google 



THE WORKSHOP COMPANION. 15 

melted together, and well stirred at the time of pouring into 
the box or bearing. 

Fusible Mekds. — These are chiefly used as a means of amub> 
ment, spoons formed of them melting readily in hot tea or 
coffee. Thej have also been used to make plugs for steam 
boilers, the intention being that they should melt and aUow 
the steam to escape when the pressure became too great. No. 
4 has been used for making casts of coins and medals, and the 
beautiful French cliche moulds were made of it. 

1. Newton's fusible metal : Bismuth, 8 ; lead, 5 ; tin, 3. 
Melts with the heat of boiling water. 

2. Onion's metal : Lead, 3 ; tin, 2 ; bismuth, 5. Melts at 
197 degrees, Fahrenheit. 

3. Wood's fusible metal : Bismuth, 15 ; lead, 8 ; tin, 4 ; 
cadmium, 3. Melts between 150 and 160 deg. Fahr. 

4. Cliche metal : Bismuth, 8 ; tin, 4 ; lead, 5 ; antimony, 1. 
The metals should be repeatedly melted together and poured 
into drops or granulated, until they are well mixed. 

Pewter. — Tin, 4 ; lead 1. Old articles of pewter form 
therefore, a very fine metal for solder. 

Queen's Metal. — Tin, 100 ; antimony, 8 ; copper, 4 ; bis- 
muth, 1. Resembles silver in appearance. 

Speculum Metal. — Copper, 32 ; tin, 15 ; arsenic, 2. First 
melt the copper, and then add the tin which should have 
l)een melted in a separate crucible. Mix thoroughly and add 
the arsenic. 

Type Meted. — ^Lead, 44 ; antimony 8 ; tin, 1. 

Amber. 

Amber is principally obtained from the shores of the Baltic, 
but it is also found in other parts of Europe. The most es- 
teemed is the opaque variety, resembling the color of a lemon, 
and sometimes called fat amber ; the transparent pieces are 
very brittle and vitreous. The German pipe makers, by 
whom it is principally used, employ thin scraping tools, and 
they bum a small lamp or place a uttle pan of burning char- 
coal beneath the amber to warm it slightly whilst it runs in 
the lathe. This prevents it from chipping out, but if it is too 
highly heated by friction it is apt to fly to pieces. 

The finer specimens of amber, which are sometimes formed 
into gems and ornaments, are ground on lead plates made to 
revolve in the lathe, any of the usual abraaive substances 



Digitized by 



Google 



16 THE WOEKSHOP COMPANION. 

(sand or emery) being nsed. The facets are then finished by 
means of a whetstone, and polished with chalk mixed with 
w ater or vegetable oil. The final finish is given by means of 
flannel. During the polishing process the amber becomes 
very warm and highly electric, and if this heating goes too 
far it will fly in. pieces. The workmen, therefore, cool it off 
every now and then- 

Amber, to Unite Broken Pieces. — Coat with linseed oil the 
surfaces that are to be joined ; hold the oiled parts carefully 
over a charccal fire, a few hot cinders or a gaslight, being 
careful to cover up all the rest of the object loosely with 
X)aper. When the oiled parts have begun to feel the neat so 
as to be sticky, press and clamp them together and keep them 
so until nearly cold. Only that part where the edges are to 
be united must be warmed, and even that with care lest the 
form or polish of the other parts should be disturbed ; the 
part where the joint occurs generally requires to be repolished. 

Imitaiio7i Amber. — ^Of late, an imitation of amber, which 
cannot be distinguished f?;om the genuine article by inspec- 
tion, has made its appearance on the market. It contains 
copal, camphor, turpentine, and other ingredients, becomes 
electric by friction, and is used for manufacturing mouth- 
pieces for pipes, cigar-holders, ornaments, etc. The com- 
Cition may be distinguished from genuire amber by its 
er melting point, as it quickly softens and melts when laid 
on a hot plate, while amber requires a comparatively high 
heat ; and further by the action of ether, which softens the 
imitation until it may be scraped awav with the finger-nail, 
while true amber is absolutely insoluble in cold ether. 

Annealing and Hardening. 

For the best methods of annealing, hardening and temper- 
ing steel, see article steel in this volume. Several valuable 
facts in regard to glass are else given under glass. 

Copper, brass, German silver and similar metals are hard- 
ened by hammering, rolling or wire drawing, and are softened 
by being heated red hot and plunged in water. Copper, by 
being alloyed with tin, may be made so hard that cutting in- 
struments may be made of it. This is the old process of 
hardenuig copper, which is so often claimed to be one of the 
Iwt arts, and which would be very useful if we did not hftVQ 



Digitized by 



Google 



THE WOBKSHOP COMPAl^IOl^. 17 

in steel a material which is far less costly and far better fitted 
for the making of edge tools. 

Antiseptic Preparations. 

Specimens of natural history intended for subsequent ex- 
amination and dissection are best preserved in alcohol, but as 
this is expensive, a saturated solution of 100 parts of alum 
and 2 parts of saltpetre may be used with good effect. For 
preserving stuffed specimens the following are generally 
used : 

Arsenical Soap. — This is the most powerful preservative in 
use. It is a strong poison, but is invaluable for preserving 
skins of birds and beasts that are to be stuffed. It is made 
thus : Powdered arsenic, 2 oz. ; camphor, 5 oz. ; white soap, 
2 oz. ; salt of tartar (sub-carbonate of potash), 6 drachms ; 
powdered lime, 2 drachms. Cut the soap in very thin slices 
and heat gently with a small quantity of water, stirring all 
the time with a stick. When thoroughly melted add the salt 
of tartar and the lime. When these are well mixed together 
add the arsenic, which must be carefully incorporated with 
the other ingredients. Take the mixture off the fire, and while 
cooling add the camphor, previously reduced to powder by 
rubbing it with a little alcohol. Wlien finished the soap 
should be of the consistence of thick cream and should be 
kept in a tightly stopped bottle. 

Arsenical Preservative Powder. — This is dusted over moist 
skins and flesh, and preserves almost any animal matter from 
putrefaction. It is thus made : Arsenic, 4 oz. ; burnt alum, 
4 oz. ; tanner's bark, 8 oz ;. mix and grind together to a very 
fine powder. 

Beeswax. 

Beeswax is obtained by washing and mel'^Ing the honey- 
comb. The product is yellow and is freed from its impurities, 
and bleached by meltmg it with hot water or steam, in a 
tdnned copper or wooden vessel, letting it settle, running it 
off into an oblong trough with a line of holes in its bottom, 
so as to distribute it upon horizontal wooden cylinders, made 
to revolve, half immersed in cold water, and then exposing 
the thin ribbons or films thus obtained, to the blanching 
action of air, light, and moisture. For this purpose the rib- 
bons are laid upon long webs of canvas stretched horizontally 
between standards, two feet above the surface of a sheltered 



Digitized by 



Google 



13 ME WOUKSHOP COMPANION. 

field, having a free exposure to the STinbeams. Kete they 
are frequently turned over, then covered by nets to prevent 
their being blown away by winds, and watered from time to 
time, like linen upon the grass field in the old method of 
bleaching. Whenever the color of the wax seems stationary, 
it hi collected, re-melted, and thrown again into ribbons upon 
the wet cylinder, in order to expose new surfaces to the bleach- 
ing operation. By several repetitions of these processes, i/ 
the weather proves favorable, the wax becomes quite white. 

Black-boards. 

Various kinds of so-called " liquid slating " have been sold 
for converting any smooth board or wall into a black-board 
for school or other purposes. The following give very good 
results; No. 1 is probably the best, but is somewhat expen- 
sive. 

1. Take alcohol (95 per cent.), 4 pints; shellac, 8 ounces;, 
lamp-black, 12 drachms; ultramarine blue, 20 drachms; pow- 
dered rotten stone, 4 ounces; powdered pumice stone, 6 
ounces. First dissolve the shellac in the alcohol, then add 
the other ingredients, finely powdered, and shake welL To 
apply the slating, have the surface of the board smooth and 
perfectly free from grease. Shake well the bottle containing 
the preparation, pour out a small quantitv only into an old 
tofi-cup, and apply it with a new flat varnish brush as rapidly 
as possible. Keep the bottle well corked, and shake it up every 
time before pouring out the liquid. 

^. Instead of alcohol take a solution of borax in water; dis- 
solve the shellac in this and color with lamp-black. 

3. Dilute silicate of soda (water-glass) with an equal bulk 
of water, and add sufficient lamp-black to color it. The lamp- 
black should be ground with water and a little of the silicate 
before being added to the rest of the liquid. 

Brass. 

Next to iron, brass is probably the most generally useful 
metal, and as the varieties of this alloy are almost infinite, the 
range of purposes to which it may be applied is very ^eat. 
The color of the alloy inclines to red when the proportion of 
zinc is small, gradually changing to yellow, and ultimately 
white, when the proportion of zinc is very large. The duc- 
tility and malleability of the alloy increase with the quantity 
pf copper. Ordinary brass may be hammered, rolled iaUf 



Digitized by 



Google 



THE WORKSHOP COMPAKIOK. 19 

sheetd or drawn to wire while cold, provided it is occasionally 
annealed by heating it' to a very low red heat. When worked 
hot it crumbles to pieces under the hammer or between the 
rolls. But the so-called yellow metal, or Muntz metal, an 
alloy of 40 parts of zinc and 60 of copper, may be wrought 
while red hot, rolled into sheets and forged into bolts. Brasd 
is not so readily oxidized as copper, being harder, tougher, 
more easily fusible and more fluid when molten. It solidilie;* 
without becoming honey-combed, and hence is suited for 
making all kinds of castmgs; while simply by the addition 
of from 1 to 2 per cent, of lead, it is capable of being readily 
worked on the lathe, and may then be filed without, as it 
otherwise does, clogging the teeth of the file. 

Finishing Brass. — The article having been brought to 
proper shape by means of the lathe, file, grindstone or other 
means, the surface must be rendered smooth and free from 
lumps, utters, or scratches. If finished in the lathe, emery 
paper and oil may be used to smooth the surface, the final 
polish being imparted by rouge. In all cases where brass or 
other metals are polished by means of abrasive materials, gre^it 
care must be taken that all corners are left sharp and well- 
defined, since nothing looks so badly as a comer which ought 
to be square but which is worn and rounded in the process 
of polishing. 

Ill finishing brass work (and the same remark applies to 
the polishing of other materials) great care must be taken to 
avoid making any scratches which are deeper than the other 
marks left by the material employed. Such scratches are 
very difficult to remove by very fine files or by polishing 
powders, and therefore, whenever the work shows such 
scratches it is necessary to go back to the coarse file or scrai)cr 
and begin anew. (See articles on Polishing Metals and Polish- 
hig Powders.) 

Coloring and Varnishing Brass. — ^To prevent the everyday 
rusting of brass goods, the trade has long resorted to means 
for protecting the surface from the action of the atmosphere, 
the first plan of which is* to force a change to take place. 
Thus, if brass is left in damp sand, it acquires a beautiful 
brown color, which, when polished with a dry brush, remains 
permanent and requires no cleaning. It is also possible to 
impart a green and light coating of verdigris on the surface 
of the brass by means of dilute acids, allowed to dry spon- 



Digitized by 



Google 



2rt "THE WOBKSHOP COMPANION. 

taneonsly. iTie antique appearance thus given is very pleaiS" 
ing, and more or less permanent. But it is not always pos- 
sible to wait for goods so long as such processes require, and 
hence more speedy methods became necessary, many of which 
had to be frirther protected hj a coat of varnish. Before 
bronzing, however, all the requisite fitting is finished, and the 
brass annealed, pickled in old or dilute nitric acid, till the 
scales can be removed from the surface, scoured with sand 
and water, and dried. Bronzing is then performed according 
to the color desired; for although the word means a brown 
color, being taken from the Italian " bromiTw," signifying 
burnt brown, yet in commercial language it includes all 
colors. (See article on Bronzing.) 

Browns of all shades are obtained by immersion in solu- 
tions of nitrate or the perchloride of iron; the strength of 
the solutions determining the depth of the color. Violets are 
produced by dipping in a solution of chloride of antimony. 
Chocolate is obtained by burning on the surface of the brass 
moist red oxide of iron, and polishing with a very small 
quantity of blacklead. 

OHve-green results from making the surface black by means 
of a solution of iron and arsenic in muriatic acid, the details 
of the process being as follows: 

Make the articles bright, then dip in aqua fortis, which 
must be thoroughly rinsed off with clean water. Then make 
the following mixture: Hydrochloric acid, 6 lbs. ; sulphate of 
iron, i lb. ; white arsenic, i lb. Be careful to get aU the in- 
gredients pure. Let the articles lie in the mixture till black; 
take out and dry in hot sawdust, polish with blacklead, and 
lacquer with green lacquer composed of one part lac varnish, 
four of turmeric, and one of gamboge. 

A steel-gray color is deposited on brass from a dilute boil- 
ing solution of chloride of arsenic; and a blue by careful 
treatment with strong hyposulphite of soda. 

Black is much used for optical brass work, and is obtained 
by coating the brass with a solution of platinum, or with 
chloride of gold mixed with nitrate of tin. The Japanese 
bronze their brass by boiling it in a solution of sulphate of 
copper, alum and verdigris. " 

Success in the art of bronzing greatly depends on circum- 
stances, such as the temperature of the alloy or of the solu- 
tion, the proportions of the metals used in forming the alloy. 



Digitized by 



Google 



THE WORKSHOP COMPANION. 21 

and the quality of the materials. The moment at which to 
withdraw the goods, the drying of them, and a hundred little 
items of care and manipulation, reqiiire attention which ex- 
perience alone can impart. 

To avoid giving any artificial color to brass, and yet to pre- 
serve it from becoming tarnished, it is usual to cover properly 
cleaned brass with a varnish called " lacquer." To prepare 
the brass for this, the goods, after being annealed, pickled, 
scoured and washed, as abready explained, are either dipped 
for an instant in pure commercisd nitrous acid, washed in 
clean water, and dried in sawdust, or immersed in a mixture 
of one part of nitric acid with four of water, till a white curd 
covers the surface, at which moment the goods are withdrawn, 
washed in clean water, and dried in sawdust. In the first 
case the brass will be bright; in the latter, a dead flat which 
is usually relieved by burnishing the prominent parts. THeri 
the goods are dipped for an instant in commerci^ nitric acid, 
and well washed in water containing some argol (to preserve 
the color till lacquered), and dried in warm sawdust. So pre- 
pared, the goods are conveyed to the lacquer room, where 
they are heated on a hot plate and varnished. 

The varnish used is one of spirit, consisting, in its smiple 
form, of one ounce of shellac dissolved in one pint of alcohoL 
To this simple varnish are added such coloring substances as 
red Sanders, dragon's-blood, and annatto," for imparting rich- 
ness of color. To lower the tone of color, turmeric, gamboge, 
saflfron, Cape aloes, and sandarao are used. The first group 
reddens, the second jrellows the varnish, while a mixture of 
the two gives a pleasmg orange. (See article on Lacquer,) 

To Whiten Brass. — Small articles of brass or copper may 
be whitened by boHing them in a solution of | lb. cream of 
tartar, 2 quarts of water, and 1 lb. grain tin or any pure tin 
finely divided. The tin dissolves in the cream of tartar and 
is again precipitated on the brass or copper. 

Depositing Brass hy Electricity. — ^The first step is to ti^or- 
ou^hly cleanse the articles, either by means of emery, or hj 
laymg them overnight in a weak bath of sulphuric acid. 
They are then washed off with water, a weak soda solution, 
and then immersed as the cathode of a bath consisting of 2^ 
parts of sulphate of copper, 20 parts sulphate of zinc, and 45 
parts cyanide of potassium, in 300 parts of water. The anode 
should be two plates of zinc and copper of equal size. The 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



22 . THE WORKSHOP COMPANION. 

color of ihe resulting brass coating may be modified by 
varying the depth of immersion of one or the other of the 
plates. The galvanic current should be a strong one, and 
the liberation of hydrogen bubbles on the object to bo 
brassed should be plentiful. It is important, however, to 
note that the objects should be first coppered to insure a 
strong attachment of the brass coating. 

Coating Brass with Copper. — The following valuable process 
for coating brass with copper, is given by Dr. C. Puscher: 
Dissolve ten parts, by weight, of sulphatie of copper, and five 
of sal-ammoniac, in one hundred and fifty parts, by weight, 
of water. Place the brass, well cleaned and free from £tty 
matter on its surface, into this mixture ; leave it in it for a 
minute; let the excess of liquid drain off first, and heat the 
metal next over a charcoal fire, until the evolution of am- 
mioniacal vapors ceases, and the coppery film appears per- 
fect. Wash with cold water and dry. The coating of cop- 
per adheres firmly. 

Cleaning Brass. — ^Large arucles of brass and copper which 
have become very much soiled may be cleaned by a mixture 
of rotten-stone powder (or any hnarp polishing powder) with 
a strong solution of oxalic acid. Aft^r being thoroughly 
cleaned, the metal should bo wiped ofi' with a cloth moistened 
with soda or potash, and a very light coating of oil should bo 
applied to prevent the further corroding action of the acid. 

A more powerful cleaning agent, because very corrosive, 
is finely powdered bichromate of potash mixed with twico 
its bulk of strong sulphuric acid and diluted (after standing 
an hour or so) with an equal bulk of water. This will in- 
stantiy clean tne dirtiest brass, but great care must be taken 
in handling the liquid, as it is very corrosive. 

Brass which has been lacquered should never be cleaned 
with polishing powders or corrosive chemicals. Wiping 
with a soft cloth is sufficient, and in some cases washing with 
weak soap and water may be admissible. Dry the articles 
thoroughly, taking care not to scratch them, and if, after 
this, tiiey show much sign of wear or corrosion, send them to 
the lacquerer to be refimshed. 

Brazing and Soldering. 

The term soldering is generally applied when fusible alloys 
of lead and tin are employed for uniting metals. When hard 

Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



THE WOEKSHOP COMPANION. 23 

metals, such as copper, brass or silver are nsed, tlie term 
brazing ^derived from brass) is more appropriate. 

In uniting tin, oopper, brass, etc., -with any of the soft 
soldera, a copper soldering-iron is generally nsed. This tool 
and the manner of using it are too Well known to Heed de- 
scription. In many oases, however, the Work inay be dono 
more neatly without the soldering-iron, by filing or turning 
the joints so that they fit closely, moistening them with tho 
soldering fluid described hereafter, placing a piece of smooth 
tin-foil between them, tying them together with binding wire, 
and heating the whole m a lamp or tire till the tin-foil melts. 
We have often joined pieces of brass in this Way so that tho 
joints were quite invisible. Indeed, with good soft solder 
almost all work may be done over a spirit lamp or even a 
candle, without the use of a soldering-iron. 

More minute directions may be found in the Young Scien- 
tist, Vol. I, page 56. 

Advantage may be taken of the varying degrees of fusi- 
bility of solders to make several joints in the same piece of 
work. Thus, if the first joint has been made with fine tin- 
ner's solder, there would be no danger of melting it in mak- 
ing a joint near it with bismuth solder, composed of load, 4 ; 
tin, 4; and bismuth, 1; and the melting pomt of both is fur 
enough removed from that of a solder composed of lead, '2 ; 
tin, 1; and bismuth, 2; to be in no danger of fusion durin^j 
the use of the latter. * 

Soft solders do not maKb malleable joints. To join brass, 
copper or iron so as to have the joint very strong and malio- 
able, hard solder must be used. For this purpose equal 
parts of silver and brass will be found excellent, though for 
iron, copper, or very infusible brass, nothing is better than 
silver coin rolled out thin, which may be done by any silver- 
smith or dentist. This makes decidedly the toughest of all 
joints, and as a little silver goes a long way, it is not vory 
expensive. 

For most hard solders borax is the best flux. It dissolves 
any oxides which may exist on the surface of the metal, and 
protects the latter from the further action of the air, so that 
the solder is enabled to come into actual contact with tho 
surfaces which are to be joined. For soft solders tho best 
flux is a soldering fluid which may be prepared by saturating 
hydrochloric acid (spirit of salt) with zinc. The addition of 



Digitized by 



Google 



U THE WORKSHOP COMPANIOl^. 

r 
& little sal ammoniac) Improves n,. It Is Sftid tliat & solution 
of phosphoric acid in alcohol makes an excellent soldering 
fluid, which has some advantages over chloride of zinc. 

In using ordinary tinner's solder for uniting surfaces that 
are already tinned — such as tinned plate and tinned copper — 
resin is the best and cheapest flux, but vhen surfaces of iron, 
brass or copper that have tiot been tinned are to be joined by 
boft Solder, the soldering fluid is by far the most convenient. 
Kesin possesses this important advantage over soldering fluid, 
that it does Hot induce subsequent corrosion of the article to 
which it is applied. When acid fluxes have been applied to 
anything that is liable to rust, it is necessary to see that they 
are thoroughly washed off with clean warm water and the 
articles carefully and thoroughly dried. •» 

on and powdered resin mixed togetht* mane a good flux 
for tinned articles. The mixture can be applied with a small 
brush or a swab tied to the end of a stick. 

In preparing solders, whether hard or soft, great care is 
requisite to avoid two faults — a want of uniformity in the 
melted mass, and a change in the proportions of the con- 
stituents by the loss of volatile or oxidable ingredients. Thus, 
where copper, silver, and similar metals are to be njixcd with 
tin, zinc, etc. , it is necessary to molt the more infusible metal 
first. When copper and zinc are heated together, a largo 
portion of the zinc passes off i-i fumes. In preparing soft 
solders, the material should bo melted under tallow, to pre- 
vent waste by oxidation; and in melting hard solders, the 
same object is accomplished by covering them with a thick 
layer of powdered charcoal. 

To obtain hard solders of uniform composition, they are 
generally granulated by pouring them into water through a 
wet broom. Sometimes they are cast in solid masses and 
reduced to powder by filing. Silver solders for jewelers are 
generally rolled into thin plates, and sometimes the soft 
solders, especially those that are very fusible, are rolled into 
sheets and cut into narrow strips, which are very convenient 
for small work that is to be heated by a lamp. 

The following simple mode of making solder wire, which 
is very handy for small work, will be found useful. Take a 
sheet of stiff writing or drawing paper, and roll it in a coni- 
cal form, rather broad in comparison with its length. Make 
A ring of stiff wire, to hold it in, attaching a suitable handle 



Digitized by 



Google 



THE WORKSHOP COMPANIOK. ^ 

to the ring. The point of the cone may first of all be cut off, 
to leave an orifice of the size required. When filled with 
molten solder it should be held above a pail of cold water; 
and the stream of solder flowing from the cone will congeal 
as it runs, and form the wire. If held a little higher, so that 
the stream of solder breaks into drops, before striking the 
water, it will form handy, elongated " tears " of metal; but, 
by holding it still higher, each drop forms a thin concave 
cup or shell, and, as each of these forms have their own 
peculiar uses in business, many a mechanic will find this hint 
very useful. 

Hard solders are usually reduced to powder either by 
granulation or filing, and then spread along the joints after 
being mixed with borax, which has been fused and powdered. 
It is not necessary that the grains of solder should be placed 
between the pieces to be joined, as with the aid of the borax 
they will " sweat " into the joint as soon as fusion takes place. 
The same is true of soft solder applied with soldering fiui J. 
One of the essential requisites of success, however, is that 
the surfaces be clean, bright, and free from all rust. 

The best solder for platinum is fine gold. The joint is not 
only very infusible, but it is not easily acted upon by common 
agents. For German-silver joints, an excellent solder is 
composed of equal parts of silver, brass, and zinc. The proper 
flux is borax. 

Bronzing. 

Two distinct processes have had this name applied to them. 
The first consists in staining brass work a dark brown or 
bronze color and lacquering it; the second consists in par- 
tially corroding the brass so as to give it that greenish hue 
which is peculL,r to ancient brass work. The first is gen- 
ei-ally applied to instruments and apparatus, the second to 
articles of ornament. 

Bronze for Brass Instruments. — 1. The cheapest and sim- 
plest is undoubtedly a light coat of plumbago or black lead. 
After brushing the article with plumbago place it on a clear 
fire till it is made too hot to be touched. Apply a plate 
brush as soon as it ceases to be hot enough to bum the brush. 
A few strokes of the brush will produce a dark brown polish 
approaching black, but entirely distinct from the well known 
appear^uxce of bls^k lead. Lacquer with any desired tot» 



Digitized by 



Google 



26 THE WORKSHOP CX)MPANION. 

2. Plate powder or ron^ maj' be used instead of plum- 
bago, and gives very beautiful effects. 

3. Make the articles clean, bright and free from oil or 
grease, then dip in aqua fortis, which must be thoroughly 
rinsed off with clean warm water. Then make the following 
mixture: Hydrochloric acid, 6 lbs.; sulphate of iron, J lb.; 
white arsenic, i lb. Be careful to get all the ingredients 
pure. Let the articles lie in the mixture till black, take out 
and dry in hot sawdust, polish with black lead, and lacquer 
with green lacquer. 

Antique Bronze. — Dissolve 1 oz. sal-ammoniac, 3 oz. cream 
tartar, and 6 oz. common salt in 1 pint of hot water; add 2 
oz. nitrate of copper dissolved in \ pint of water; mix well, 
and, by means of a brush, apply it repeatedly to the article, 
which should be placed in a damp situation. 

Bronzing Liquids — Dissolve 10 parts of fuchsine and 5 parts 
of aniline-purple in 100 parts of 95 per cent, alcohol on a 
water bath; after solution has »aken place, add 5 parts of 
benzoic acid, and keep the whole boiling for 5 or 10 minutes, 
until the green color of the mixture has given place to a fine 
light bronze-brown. This liqui*! may be applied to all 
metals, as well as many othe* ^abstances, yields a very 
brilliant coating, and dries quickie. It is applied with a 
brush. 

Bronzing Wood, Leather, Paper, eec.^-1. Dissolve gum lao 
in four parts by volume of pure alcolipl, and then add bronze 
or any other metal powder in the proportion of one part to 
three parts of the solution, The surface to be covered must 
be very smooth. In the case of wood, one or several coats of 
]\Iendon or Spanish white are given, und the object is care- 
fully polished. The mixture is painted on, and when a suf- 
ftrieiit number of coats have been given, the object is well 
rubbed. A special advantage of this process is that the 
coating obtained is not dull, but can be bumished, 

2. Another method is to coat the object with copal or 
other varnish, and when this has dried so far as to become 
** tacky " dust bronze powder over it. After a few hours the 
bronzed surface should be burnished with a burnisher qI 
steel or agate. 

Srowning Cmo Sfirr^is, (See Qum.) 

Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



THE WOBJ^iO^ OOMPANIOK. 27 

Burns. 

Those who work in red-hot metals, glass blowing, etc., are 
sometimes apt to bum their fingers. It is well to know that 
a solution of bicarbonate of soda (baking soda) promptly and 
permanently relieves all pain. The points to be observed 
are : 1. Bicarbonate of soda must be used; washing soda 
and common soda are far too irritant to be applied if the 
bum is serious. 2. The solution must be saturated. 3. The 
solution must be ice-cold. 

A laboratory assistant in Philadelphia having severely 
burned the inside of the last joint of his thumb while bend- 
ing glass tubing, api)lied the solution of bicarbonate of soda, 
and not only was the pain allayed, but the thumb could be 
at once freely used without inconvenience. 

Case-Hardening. (See Iron,) 
Catgut. 

This material is so valuable for many purposes that many 
mechanics will find it useful to know how to make it, as they 
can then provide themselves with any size and length that 
may be needed. The process is quite simple. Take the en- 
trads of sheep or other animals, remembering that fat animals 
aflbrd a very weak string, while those that are lean produce 
a much tougher article, and thoroughly clean them from all 
impurities, attached fat, etc* The animal should be newly 
killed. Wash well in clean water and soak in soft water for 
two days, or in winter for three days; lay them on a table or 
board and scrape them with a smaU plate of copper having a 
semicircular hole cut in it, the edges of which inust be quite 
smooth and not capable of cutting. After washing put them 
into fresh water and then let them remain till the next day, 
when they are to be well scraped. Let them soak again in 
water for a night, and two or three hours before they are 
taken out add to each gallon of water 2 oz. of jiotash. They 
ought now to scrape quite clean from their inner mucous 
coat, and will consequently be much smaller in dimensions 
than at first. They may now be wiped dry, slightly twisted, 
and passed through a hole in a piece of brass to equalize their 
size; as they dry they are passed every two or three hours 
through other holes, each smaller than the last. When dry 
they will be round and well polished, and after being oiled 
are fit for use. 



Digitized by 



Google 



83 THE WOBKSHOP COMPANION. 

Cements. 

General Rules, — Some years a^ the writer called attention* 
to the fact that quite as much depends upon the manner in 
which a cement is used as upon the cement itself. The best 
cement that ever* was compounded would prove entirely 
worthless if improperly applied. The following rules must 
be vigorously SMlhered to if success would be secured: 

1. Bring the cement into intimate contact with the sur- 
&ces to be united. This is best done by heating the pieces 
to be joined in those cases where the cement is melted by 
heat, as in using resin, shellac, marine glue, etc. Where 
solutions are used, the cement must be well rubbed into the 
surfaces either with a soft brush (as in the case of porcelain 
or glass), or by rubbing the two surfaces together (as in mak- 
ing a glue joint between two pieces of wood. J 

2. Sb little cement «» possible should be allowed to remain 
between the united surfaces. To secure this the cement 
should be as liquid as possible (thoroughly melted if used 
with heat), and the surfaces should be pressed closely into 
contact (by screws, weights, wedges or cords) until the cement 
has hardened. 

Where the cement is a solution (such as gum in water) and 
the surfaces are very absorbent (such as porous paper), the 
surfaces must be saturated^ih. cement before they are brought 
together. 

4. Plenty of time should b:^ allowed for the cement to dry- 
er harden, and this is particularly the case in oil cements 
such as copal varnish, boiled oil, white lead, etc. When two 
surfaces, each half an inch across, are joined by means of a 
layer of white lead placed between them, six months may 
elapse before the cement in the middle of the joint has be- 
come hard. In such cases a few days or weeks are of no 
account; at the end of a month the joint will be weak and 
easily separated, while at the end of two or three years it may 
be so firm that the material will part anywhere else than at 
the joint. Heiice, where the article is to be used immediately, 
the only safe cements are those which are liquified by heat 
and which become hard when cold. A joint made with 
marine glue is firm an hour after it has been made. Next 
to cements that are liquified by heat, are those which consist 

♦Tecbnologist, Vol I (1870), pa*;e 188, 

Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



THE WOE SHOT? COMPANION. M 

of substances dissolved in water or alcohol. A glue joint sets 
firmly in twenty-four hours; a joint made witli shellac var- 
nish becomes dry in two or three days. Oil cements, which 
do not dry by evaporation, but harden by oxidation (boiled 
oil, white lead, red lead, etc.), are the slowest of all. 

Aquarium Cement. — ^Litharge; fine, white, dry sand and 
plaster of paris, each 1 gill; finely pulverized resin, i gill. 
Mix thoroughly and make into a paste with boiled linseed 
oil to which dryer has been added. Beat it well, and let it 
stand four or five hours before using it. After it has stood 
for 15 hours, however, it loses its strength. Glass cemented 
into its frame with this cement is good for either salt or 
fresh water. It has been used at the Zoological Gardens, 
London, with great success. It might be useful for con- 
structing tanks for other purposes or for stopping leaks. 

Annenian Cement. — The jewellers of Turkey, who are 
mostly Armenians, have a singular method of ornamenting 
watch cases, etc., with diamonds and other precious stones 
by simply gluing or cementing them on. The stone is set in 
gold or silver, and the lower part of the metal made flat or 
to correspond with that part to which it is to be fixed. It is 
then warmed gently and the glue applied, which is so veiy 
strong that the parts thus cemented never separate. This 
glue, which will firmly unite bits of glass and even polished 
steel, and may, of course, be applied to a vast variety of useful 
purposes, is thus made : Dissolve five or six bits of gum 
mastic, each the size of a large pea, in as much alcohol as 
will suffice to render it liquid; in another vessel dissolve as 
much isinglass, previously a little softened in water, (though 
none of the water must bo used,) in good brandy or rum, as 
will make a two-ounce phial of very strong glue, adding two 
£mall bits of gum galbanum, or ammoniacum, which must 
be rubbed or ground until they are dissolved. Then mix 
the whole with a sufficient heat, keep the glue in a phial 
«losely stopped, and when it is to be used set the phial in 
6oiling water. To avoid the cracking of the phial by ex- 
posure to such sudden heat, use a thin green glass phial, and 
hold it in the st«am for a few seconds before iT^mersin^, it in 
the hot water. / 

BucklancTs Cement. — ^Finely powdered white sugar, 1 jz.; 
finely powdered starch, 3 oz. ; finely powdered gum arable, 
4 Q?. Bub well together in a dry^ mortar j then little by littl© 



Digitized by 



Google 



80 THE WORKSHOP COMPANION. 

add cold water nntil it is of the thickness of melted glne; put 
in a wide mouthed bottle and cork closely. The powder, 
thoroughly ground and mixed, may be kept for any length of 
time in a wide mouthed bottle, and when wanted a little may 
l>e mixed with water with a stiff brush. It answers ordinarily 
for all the purposes for which mucilage is used, and as a 
cement for labels it is specially good, as it does not become 
brittle and crack off. 

Casein Miicilage. — Take the curd of skim-milk (carefullj^ 
freed from cream or oil), wafih it thoroughly and dissolve it 
to saturation in a cold concentrated solution of borax. This 
mucilage keeps well, and as regards adhesive power far sur- 
passes the mucilage of gum arabic. 

Casein mul Soluble Glnas. — Casein dissolved in soluble 
silicate of soda or potassa, makes ^ very strong cement for 
glass or porcelain. 

CIteese CemeiU for menfJing Cluaa, etc. — Take skim milk 
cheese, cut it in slices and boil it in water. Wash it in cold 
water and knead it in warm water several times. Place it 
warm on a levigating stone and knead it with quicklime. It 
will join marble, stone or earthenware so th^t tlie joining is 
scarcely to be discovered. 

Chinese Ceinent (Schio-liao). — To three parts of fresh beaten 
blood are added four parts of slaked lime and a little alum; 
a thin, pasty mass is produced, which can be used imme- 
diately. Objects which are to be made specially water-proof 
are painted by the Chinese twice, or at the most three times. 
Dr. Scherzer saw in Pekin a wooden box which had travelled 
the tedious road via Siberia to St. Petersburg and back, 
which was found to be perfectly sound and water-proof. 
Even baskets made of straw became, by the use of this 
cement, perfectly serviceable in the transportation of oil. 
Pasteboard treated therewith receives the appearance and 
strength of wood. Most of the wooden public buildings of 
China are painted with schio-liao, which gives them an un- 
l>leasant reddish appearance, but adds to their dui-abilitj^. 
This cement was tried in the Austrian department of Agri- 
culture, and by the " Vienna Association of Industry," and 
in both cases the statements of Dr. Scherzer were found to 
be strictly accurate. 

Cliinese Glue. — Shellac dissolved in alcohol. Used for 
joining wood, earthenware, glass^ etc. This cement re(juircs 



THE WORKSHOP COMPANION. 81 

considerable time to become thoroughly hard, and even then 
is not as strong as good glue. Its portability is its only 
recommendation. 

Faraday's Gap Cement. — EledricaU Cement. — ^Besin, 5 oz.; 
beeswax 1 oz. ; red ochre or Venetian red in powder, 1 oz. 
Dry the earth thoroughly on a stove at a temperature above 
212°. Melt the wax and resin together and stir in the - 
powder by degrees. Stir until cold, lest the earthy matter 
settle to the bottom. Used for fastening brass work to glass 
tubes, flasks, etc. 

Olass, Earthenware, etc.. Cement f<yr. — Dilute white of egg 
with its bulk of water and beat up thoroughly. Mix to the 
consistence of thin paste with powdered quicklime. Must 
be used immediately. 

Glass Cement. — Take pulverized glass, 10 parts; powdered 
fluorspar, 20 parts; soluble silicate of soda, 60 parts. Both 
glass and fluorspar must be in the finest possible condition, 
which is best done by shaking each, in fine powder, with 
water, allowing the coarser particles to deposit, and then to 
pour off the remainder which holds the finest particles in 
suspension. The mixture must be made very rapidly, by 
quick stirring, and when thoroughly mixed must be at once 
applied. This is said to yield an excellent cement. 

Glue is undoubtedl;5r the most important cement used in 
the arts. Good glue is hard, clear (not necessarily light- 
colored, however,) and free from bad taste and smell. Glue 
which is easily dissolved in cold water is not strong. Good 
glue merely swells in cold water and must be heated to the 
boiling point before it will dissolve thoroughly. 

Good glue requires more water than poor, consequently 
you cannot dissolve six pounds of good glue in the same 
quantity of water you can six pounds of poor. The best glue, 
which IS clear and red, will require from one-half to more 
than double the water that is required with poor glue, and 
the quality of which can be discovered by breaking a piece. 
If good, it will break hard and tough, and when broken 
'^ill be irregular on the broken edge. If poor, it will break 
lipmparatively easy, leaving a smooth, straight edge. 

In dissolving glue, it is best to weigh the glue, and weigh 
or measure the water. If not done there is a liability of get- 
ting more glue than the water can properly dissolve. It is a 
good plan, when once the qjuantity of water that any sample 

Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



82 THE WORKSHOP COMPANION. 

of glue will take up has been ascertained, to put the glue and 
water together at least six hours before heat is applied, and 
if it is not soft enough then, let it remain longer in soak, for 
there is no danger of good glue remaining in pure water, even 
for forty-eight hours. 

From careful experiments with dn^ glue immersed for 
twenty-four hours in water at 60° Fall., and thereby trans- 
formed into a jelly, it was found that the finest ordinary glue, 
or that made from white bones, absorbs twelve times its 
weight of water in twentjr-four hours; from dark bones, the 
glue absorbs nine times its w^eight of water; while the ordi- 
nary glue made from animal refuse, absorbs but three to five 
times its weight of water. 

Glue, being an animal substance, it must be kept sweet; 
to do this it is necessary to keep it cool after it is once dis- 
solved, and not in use. In all cases keep the glue-kettle clean 
and sweet, by cleansing it often. 

Great care must be taken not to bum it, and, therefore, it 
should always be prepared in a water bath. 

Carpenters should remember that fresh glue dries more 
readily than that which has been once or twice melted. 

The advantage of frozen glue is that it can be made up at 
once, on account of its being so porous. Frozen glue of 
same grade is as strong as if dried. 

If glue is of first-rate quality, it can be used on most kinds 
of wood work very thin, and make the joint as strong as the 
original. White glue is only made white by bleaching. 

Glue, Liquid. — 1. A very strong glue may be made by dis- 
solving 4 oz. of glue in 16 ounces of strong acetic acid by the 
aid of heat. It is semi-solid at ordinary temi)eratures, but 
needs onlj" to be warmed, by placing the vessel containing it 
into hot water, to be ready for use. 

2. Dilute officinal phosphoric eeid with two parts, by 
weight of water, and saturate with carbonate of ammonia; 
dilute the resulting liquid, which must be still somewhat 
acid, with another part of distilled water, warm it on a water- 
bath, and dissolve in it enough good glue to form a thick, 
syrupv liquid. It must be kept in well-closed bottles. 

3. A most excellent form is also Dumoulin^s Liquid cmd 
Unalterable Glue, This is made as follows : Dissolve 8 oz. of 
best glue in i pint of water in a wide-mouthed bottle, by 
beating the botUe in a water-bath. Then add slowly 2J oz, 



Digitized by 



Google 



THE WORItSHOP COMPANION. 83 

of nitric acid, spec. gr. 1330, btirring constantly. Effer- 
vescence takes place under escape of nitn. "'s acid gas. When 
aU the acid has been added, the liquid is allowed to cooL 
Keep it well corked, and it will be ready for use at any 
moment. It does not gelatinize, or putrefy or ferment. It 
is applicable to many domestic uses, such as mending china, 
wood, etc. 

Glue, Mouth. — Good glue, 1 lb.; isinglass, 4 02^ Soften in 
water, boil and add ^ lb. fine brown sugar. Boil till pretty 
thick and pour into moulds. 

Glue, Portable. — Put a pinch of shredded gelatine into a 
wide-mouthed bottle; put on it. a very little water, and about 
one-fourth part of glacial acetic acid; put in a well-fitting 
cork. If the right quantity of water and acid be used, the 
gelatine will swell up into worm-like pieces, quite elastic, but 
at the same time, firm enough to be handled comfortably. 
The acid will make the preparation keep indefinitely. When 
required for use, take a small fragment of the swelled gela- 
tine, and warm the end of it in the fiame of a match or candle; 
it will immediately "run " into a fine clear glue, which can 
be applied at once direct to the article to be mended. The 
thing is done in half a minute, and is, moreover, done well, 
for the gelatine so treated makes the very best and finest glue 
that can be had. This plan might be modified by dissolving 
a trace of chrome alum in the water used for moistening the 
gelatine, in which case, no doubt, the glue would become 
insoluble when set. But for general purposes, there is no 
need for subsequent insolubility in glue. 

Gutta-Perclin Cement. — This highly recommended cement 
is made by melting together, in an iron pan, 2 parts common 
pitch and 1 part gutta-percha, stirring them well together 
until thoroughly incorporated, and then pouring the liquid 
into cold water. When cold it is black, solid, and elastic; 
but it softens with heat, and at 100° Fahr. is a thin fluid. 
It may be used as a soft paste, or in the liquid state, and 
answers an excellent purpose in cementing metal, glass, 
porcelain, ivory, &c. It may be used instead of putty for 
glazing windows. 

Iron Cement for closing the Joints of Iron Pipes. — Take of 
coarsely powdered iron borings, 5 pounds; powdered sal ^ 
ammoniac, 2 oz. ; sulphur, 1 oz. ; and water suflScient to 
moisten it This composition hardens rapidly; but if timo 



Digitized by 



Google 



84 THE WORKSHOP COMPANION. 

can be allowed it sets more firmly without the sulphnl'. It 
must be used as sc Ji as mixed and rammed tightly into the 
joints. ^ 

2. Take salrammx/moio, 2 oz. ; sublimed sulphur, 1 oz. ; cast- 
iron filings or fine turnings, 1 lb. Mix in a mortar and keep 
the powder dry. When it is to be used, mix it with twenty 
times its weignt of clean iron turnings, or filings, and grind 
the whole in a mortar; then wet it with water until it becomes 
of convenient consistence, when it is to be applied to the 
joint. After a time it becomes as hard and strong as any 
part of the metal. 

Japanese Cement. — ^Faste made of fine rice flour. 

Kerosene Oil Lamps, — The cement commonly used for 
fastening the tops on kerosene lamps is plaster of paris, 
which is porous and quickly penetrated by the kerosene. 
Another cement which has not this defect is made with three 
parts of resin, one of caustic soda and five of water. This 
composition is mixed with half its weight of plaster of paris. 
It sets firmly in about three-quarters of an hour. It is said 
to be of great adhesive power, not permeable to kerosene, a 
low conductor of heat and but superficially attacked by hot 
water. 

Labels, Cement for.—\. Macerate 5 parts of good glue in 
18 parts of water. Boil and add 9 paiis rock candy and 3 
parts gum arabic. 

2. Mix dextrine with water and add a drop or two of 
glycerine. 

3 A mixture of 1 part of dty chloride of calcium, or 2 parts 
of the same salt in the crystallized form, and 36 parts of gum 
arabic, dissolved in water to a proper consistency, forms a 
mucilage which holds well, does not crack by drying, and 
yet does not attract sufficient moisture from the air to become 
wet in damp weather. 

4. For attaching labels to tin and other bright metallic 
surfaces, first rub the surface with a mixture of muriatic acid 
and alcohol; then apply the label with a very tliin coating of 
the paste, and it will adhere almost as well as on glass. 

5. To make cement for attaching labels to metals, take ten 
parts tragacanth mucilage, ten parts of honey, and one part 
flour. The flour appears to hasten the drying, and rendem 
it less susceptible to damp. Another cement that will resist 
the damp still better, but will not adhere if the surface is 



Digitized by 



Google 



THE WOEKSHOP COMPANION. 85 

greasy, is made by boiling together two parts shellac, one 
part borax, and sixteen parte water. Flour paste to which a 
certain proportion of nitric acid has been added, and heat 
applied, makes a lasting cement, but the acid often acts 
upon the metals. The acid converts the starch into dextrine. 

6. The Archives of Pliarmacy gives the following recipe for 
damp-proof mucilage for labels: Macerate five parts of good 
glue in eighteen to twenty parts of water for a day, and to 
8ie liquid add nine parts of rock candy and three parts of 
gum arabic. The mixture can be brushed upon paper while 
lukewarm; it keeps well, does not stick together, and, when 
moistened, adheres firmljr to bottles. For the labels of soda 
or seltzer-water bottles, it is well to prepare a paste of good 
rye flour and glue, to which linseed-oil, varnish, and turpen- 
tme have been added, in the proportion of half an ounce each 
to the pound. Labels prepared in the latter way do not fall 
off in damp cellars. 

Leather and Metals Cement for Uniting. — ^Wash the metal 
with hot gelatine; steep the leather in an infusion of nut 
galld (hot) and bring the two together. 

Leather Belting, Cement for, — One who has tried everything 
says that after an experience of fifteen years ho has found 
nothing to equal the following: Common glue and isinglass, 
equal parts, soaked for 10 hours in just enough water to 
cover them. Bring gradually to a boiling heat and add pure 
tannin until the whole becomes ropy or appears like the 
white of eggs Buff off the surfaces to be joined, apply this 
cement warm, and clamp firmly. 

Litharge and Glycerins Cement. — ^A cement made of very 
finely powdered oxide of lead (litharge) and concentrated 
glycerine, unites wood to iron with remarkable efficiency. 
The composition is insoluble in most acids, is unaffected by 
the action of moderate heat, sets rapidly, and acquires an 
extraordinary hardness. 

Marine Glue. — ^The true maiine glue is a combination of 
shellac and caoutchouc in proportions which vary according 
to the purposes for which the cement is to be used. Some is 
very hard, others quite soft. The degree of softness is also 
regulated by the proportion of benzole used for dissolving 
the caoutchouc. Marine glue is more easily purchased than 
made, but where a small quantity is needed the following re- 
cipe is said to give very good results: Dissolve one part of 



Digitized by 



Google 



% THE WOUKSHO? COMPANION. 

India-ruLLor in 12 parts of benzole, and to the solntion add 
20 parts of povrdered shellac, heating the mixture catdiously 
X over the fire. Apply with a bmsh. 

The following recipe, taken from New Remedies j is said to 
yield a strong cement: 10 parts of caoutchouc or India-rub- 
fcer are dissolved in 120 parts of benzine or petrolenm (?) 
naphtha with the aid of a gentle heat. "When the solntion is 
complete, which sometimes requires 10 to 14 days, 20 parts 
of asphalt are melted in an iron vessel, and the caoutchouc 
solution is poured in very slowly, in a fine stream, and under 
continued heating, until the mass has become homogeneous, 
and nearly all of the solvent has been driven off. It is then 
poured out and cast into greased tin moulds. It forms dark- 
brown or black cakes, which are very hard to break. This 
cement requires considerable heat to melt it; and to prevent 
it from being burnt, it is best to heat a capsule containing a 
piece of it first on a water-bath, until the cake softens and 
begins to be liquid. It is then careftdly wiped dry, and 
heated over a naked flame, under constant stirring, up to 
about 300° r. The edges of the article to be mended should, 
if possible, also be heated to at least 212° P., so as to permit 
the cement to be applied at leisure and with care. The 
thinner the cement is applied, the better it binds. 

Meial, Cement far attaching to Glass. — Copr«l varnish, 15; 
drying oil, 5; turpentine, 3. Melt in a w^ater-ba^h and add 
10 parts slaked lime. 

Paris Cement far mending SJiells and other, ^^m^ns. — Gum 
arabic, 5; sugar candy, 2. White lead, encragh to color. 

Paste. — The best paste is made of good flowr, well boiled. 
Besin, etc.^ do more harm than good. 

2. An excellent white paste may be made by dissolving 2\ 
oz. gum arabic in 2 quarts hot water and thickening with 
wheat flour. To this is added a solution of alum and sugar 
of lead; the mixture is heated and stirred till about to boil, 
when it is allowed to cool. 

3. Four parts, by weight, of glue are allow ^ -A to ooften in 
15 parts of cold water for some hours, and then moderately 
heated till the solution becomes quite clear. 65 parts of 
boiling water are now added with stirring. In another vessel 
30 parts of starch paste are stirred up with 20 parts of cold 
water, so that a thin milky fluid is obtained without lumps. 
Cnto this the boiling glue solution is poured, with constant 



Digitized by 



Google 



THE WORKSHOP COMPANION. 87 

Btirrmg, and the ^rhole is kept at the boiling temperature. 
After cooling, 10 drops of carbolic acid ar^add^ to the 
paste. This paste is of extraordinary adhesive power, and 
may be used for leather, paper, or cardboard with great suc- 
cess. It must be preserved in closed bottles to preveni 
evaporation of the water, and will, in this way, keep good 
for years. 

4. Bice flour makes an excellent paste for fine paper work. 

5. Gum tragacanth and water make an ever reaidy paste. 
A few drops of any kind of acid should be added to the water 
before putting in the gum, to prevent fermentation. This 
paste will not give that semi-transparent look to thin paper, 
that gum arabic sometimes gives, when used for mucilage. 

Porcelain Cement. — ^Add plaster of pans to a strong solu- 
tion of alum till the mixture is of the consistency of cream. 
It sets readily, and is said to unite glass, metal, porcelain, 
etc. , quite firmly. It is probably suited for cases in which 
large rather than small surfaces are to be united. 

Soft Cement. — Melt yellow beeswax with its weight of tur- 
pentine and color with finely powdered Venetian red. When 
cold it has the hardness of soap, but is easily softened and 
moulded with the fingers, and for sticking things together 
temporarily it is invaluable. 

Soluble Glass Cements. — ^When finely-pulverized chalk is 
stirred into a solution of soluble glass of 30° B until the 
mixture is fine and plastic, a cement is obtained which will 
harden in between six and eight hours, possessing an ex- 
traordinary durability, and alike applicable for domestic and 
industrial purposes. If any of the following substances be 
employed besides chalk, differently-colored cements of the 
same general character are obtained : — 1. Finely pulverized or 
levigated stibnite (grey antimony, or black sulphide of anti- 
mony) will produce a dark cement, which, after burnishing 
with an agate, will present a metallic appearance. 2. Pulver- 
ized cast iron, a grey cement. 3. Zinc dust (so-caUed zino 
grey), an exceedingly hard grey cement, which, after burnish- 
ing, will exhibit the white and brilliant appearance of metallic 
zinc. This cement may be employed with advantage in 
mending ornaments and vessels of zinc, sticking alike well to 
metals, stone, and wood. 4. Carbonate of copper, a bright 
green cement. 5. Sesquioxide of chromium, a dark green 
cement. 6. Th^nard's blue (cobalt blue), a blue cement. 



Digitized by 



Google 



88 THE WORKSHOP COMPANION. 

7. Minium, an orange-colored cement. 8. Vermilion, 
splendid red cement. 9. Carmine red, a violet cement. 

SoreTs Cement. — Mix commercial zinc white with i its bulk 
of fine sand, adding a solution of chloride of zinc of 1"26 
specific gravity, and rub the whole thoroughly together in a 
mortar. The mixture must be applied at once, as it hardens 
very quickly. 

Steam Boiler Cement. — ^Mix two parts of finely powdered 
litharge with one part of very fine sand, and one part of 
quicklime which has been allowed to slack spontaneously 
by exposure to the air. This mixture may be kept for any 
length of time without injuring. In using it a portion is 
mixed into paste with linseed oil, or, still better, boiled lin- 
seed oil. Ill this state it must be quickly applied, as it soon 
becomes hard. 

Transpareni Cement for Glass. — Fine Canada balsam. 

Turner's Cement. — Melt 1 lb. of resin in a pan over the fire; 
and, when melted, add a i of a lb. of pitch. While these 
are boiling add brick dust until, by dropping a little on a 
cold stone, you think it hard enough. In winter it may be 
necessary to add a little tallow. By means of this cement a 
piece of wood may be fastened to the chuck, which will hold 
when cool; and when the work is finished it may be removed 
by a smart stroke with the tool. Any traces oi the cement 
may be removed from the work by means of benzine. 

WoUaston's Wldte Cement for large objects. — ^Beeswax, 1 oz.; 
resin, 4 oz. ; powdered plaster of paria, 5 oz. Melt together. 
To use, warm the edges of the specimen and use the ceme^it 
warm. 

Copper. 

Copper is probably the most difiicult of all the metals to 
work by the file or lathe, but pure copper may be cut like 
cheese with a graver, and consequently it is extensively used 
for plates where the number of impressions required is not 
very large. In filing copper the file should be well chalked, 
and in cutting it in the lathe use plenty of soapy water, and 
let the solution of soap be pretty strong. In polishing coi>per 
it will be found that owing to its softness, it burnishes easily 
(see article on polishing metals), but where it is polished by 
means of abrasive processes, that is, by the use of powders 
which grind it or wear it down, great care must be taken to 



Digitized by 



Google 



THE WORKSHOP COMPANION. 3d 

have the powders free from particles which are larger than 
the average, as these would be sure to scratch the metal, 
o>ving to its softness. For polishing copper by abrasion, 
only the softer polishing powders should be used, such as 
rotten stone, prepared chalk, rnd soft rouge. These are used 
with oil at first, but the last touches are given dry. 

Copper may be welded by the use of proper fluxes. The 
best compound for this pui*pose is a mixture of one part of 
phosphate of soda and two parts of boracic acid. This weld- 
ing powder should be strewn on the surface of the copper at 
a red heat; the pieces should then be heated up to a full 
cherry red, or yellow heat, and brought immediately under 
the hammer^ when they may be as readily welded as iron 
itself. For instance, it is possible to weld together a small 
rod of copper which has been broken; the ends should be 
beveled, laid on one another, seized by a pair of tongs, and 
placed together with the latter in the fire and heated; the 
welding powder should then be strewn on the ends, which, 
after a further heating, may be welded so soundly as to bend 
and stretch as if they had never been broken. It is necessary 
to carefully observe two things in the course of the operation. 
First, the greatest care must be taken that no charcoal or 
other solid carbon comes into contact with the points to be 
welded, as otherwise phosphide of copper would be formed, 
which would cover the surface of the copper and effectually 
prevent a weld. In this case it is only by careful treatment 
in an oxidizing fire and a plentiful application of the welding 
powder that the copper can again be welded. It is, there- 
fore, advisable to heat the copper in a flame, as, for instance, 
a gas flame. Second, as copper is a much softer metal than 
iron, it is much softer at the required heat than the latter at 
its welding heat, and the parts welded can not offer any great 
resistance to the blows of the hammer. They must, there- 
fore, be so shaped as to be enabled to resist such blows as 
well as may be, and it is also well to use a wooden hammer, 
which does not exercise so great a force on account of its 
lightness. Mr. Rust, the inventor of this process, states that, 
as long ago as 1854, he welded strips of copper plates to- 
gether and drew them into a rod; he also made a chain, the 
links of which had been made of pretty thick wire and 
welded. 

Coppering Iron or Steel, — The following process is said tp 



Digitized by 



Google 



40 THEWORKSHOx ^OMPANION. 

^ve very good results: First make the ai-ticlo entirely bright 
by file, scratch brush, or any of the usual modes. Apply to 
the surface a coating or cream of tartar, thon sprinkle the 
surface with a saturated solution of sulphate of copper, and 
rub with a hard brush. The coating of copper deposited on 
the iron is said to be very even and durable. 

Coral, Artificial. 

Twigs, raisin stalks, and any objects having the general 
outline of branched coral, may be made to resemble that 
material by being dipped in a mixture of 4 parts resin, 3 
parts beeswax and 2 parts vermillion, melted together and 
thorouglily mixed. The effect is very pretty, and for orna- 
mental work such imitation coral is very usejful. 

Cork. 

Corks are so important in many operations, that a little 
knowledge of the best methods of- working them is indispen- 
sable. They form the best material for a holder for sand- 
paper in rubbing down flat surfaces, and they afford the 
simplest and most effectual means of closing bottles in many 
cases. Cork is easily cut by means of a thin, sharp knife, 
which should not have a smooth edge, however, but one set 
on a dry stone, moderately fine. After having been cut to 
nearly the right form, corks are easily worked to the proper 
size and shape by means of files. Holes are easily made 
through corks by means of tin or brass tubes, which must be 
thin and well sharpened on the edge by means of a file. The 
sharp edge being slightly oiled, is pressed against the cork 
and at the same time turned round, when it quickly cuts a 
smooth straight hole through the material. 

When it is desired to make corks air-tight and water-tight, 
the best method is to allow them to remain for about five 
minutes beneath the surface of melt^^d paraflfine in a suitable 
vessel, the corks being held down either by a perforated lid, 
wire screen, or similar device. Corks thus prepared can be 
easily cut and bored, have a perfectly smooth exterior, may 
be introduced and removed from the neck of a flask with 
ease, and make a loerfect seal. 

Crayons for Black-Boards. 

Spanish white, which is simply very fine chalk, is mixed 
with water and just enough flour paste to cause the pai-ticles 



Digitized by 



Google 



THE WORKSHOP COMPANION. i3 

to adhere when dry. If too much paste is used^ the crayons 
will bo too hard and will not mark well; if too soft, they will 
crumble. The proper proportions should be found by ex- 
periment, as different qualities of flour possess different 
adhesive properties. The wet chalk may be formed into 
proper shape by means of paper moulds, or it may be roUea 
out to the required shape and cut into suitable lengths. 

For making drawings of objects of natural history, etc., it 
is frequenely desirable to use colored crayons, the most use- 
ful colors being green, red and yellow. A little cheap, dry 
paint mixed with the chalk will give the desired tints. 

Crayons which are not too hard to make a good clear mark, 
are very apt to be brittle and unable to stand any pressure 
on the point when they are of sufficient length to be handled 
easily. If the crayons are made true cylinders, they may be 
covered with paper, which will serve the same purpose as the 
wood in the common lead pencil, and may be cut away as 
wanted. The common crayons, being conical, are not so 
easily covered, but may, nevertheless, be wrapped with a 
long, narrow slip of paper so as to be strong and durable. 

Curling. 

A method of finishing such metals as brass, German silver, 
etc., which if well done, gives a very handsome appearance 
to the work. The work must first be carefully finished so as 
to have no scratches, as these would shpw through the curl- 
ing and destroy the effect. After the metal has been finished 
with fine files, emery paper, Water-of-Ayr stone, and finally 
the finest rotten stone applied by means of a buff, the curliag 
is produced by means of a stick of charcoal moved in circular 
sweeps over the surface, which should be kept well moistened 
with water. After the desired effect has been produced, the 
metal is lacquered. 

We have seen "curling" applied to surfaces of considera- 
ble extent, but in such cases the effect never seemed to us as 
good as in the case of very small articles. If the sweeps are 
large they give a coarse appearance to the work, while a 
largo surface covered with small sweeps has a confused 
appearance. 

Cuticle, Liquid. ^' 

Collodion, or gun cotton dissolved in sulphuric ether, has 
no equal as a covering for protecting bums, cuts or wounds^ 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



42 THE WORKSHOP COMPANION. 

from the air. It soon dries, and forms a skin-like protection 
that adheres with great tenacity. 

Etching. 

Etching is the art of cutting lines in anjr material by means 
of some corrosive agent. Thus, since nitric acid dissolves 
copper, if we confine the action of the acid to certain lines, 
we can cut grooves of considerable depth in the copper, and 
these grooves may be used either as lines from which we may 
print, or as marks similar to writing. Iron, brass, steel, 
silver, ivory, glass, marble, and many other materials may be 
cut in the same way, by the action of suitable acids. As a 
simple and easily learned method of forming engraved plates 
from which to print, the art of etching is one of the most 
eligible for young persons. The materials required are few 
and simple, great freedom of outline may be secured, and the 
results are very pleasing. 

Copper is the metal usually employed for etching draw- 
ings. It is furnished by the dealers in plates perfectly smooth 
and flat, and of anj desired size. The surface is first coated 
with a wax or varnish, for which there are many recipes, the 
following being probably the best: Take of beeswax and 
asphalt, 2 parts each; Burgundy pitch and black pitch, 1 
part each. Melt the wax and the pitch in an earthen vessel 
and add the asphalt by degrees in fine powder. Expose to 
heat until a drop which has been cooled, breaks by bending 
back and forth two or three times in the fingers. 

A second, which is simpler and said to be very good, is com- 
posed of asphalt, 2 oz. ; Burgundy pitch, 1 oz. ; beeswax, Ij oz. 
A transparent varnish may be composed of resin, 1 oz. ; 
beeswax, 2 oz. Melt together. 

The plate having been polished and burnished, is grasped 
by one comer in a hand-vice and warmed over a spirit lamp 
until it will melt the varnish or etching ground, which is 
then spread over its surface very thinly by means of a ball or 
pledget of cotton tied in a piece of silk. Before the ground 
has quite cooled and solidified, it is blackened^by the smoke 
of a lamp or candle. The blackening is necessary so that *Ke 
design may be clearly seen as it is drawn in. 

The design may he either drawn directly on the plate, or 
transferred by means of transfer paper. Or it may be first 
drawn on the etching ground by means of a veiy finely 

Digitized by VjOOQI^ 



THE WORKSHOP COMPANION. 43 

pointed camel-hair pencil, nsing, of course, a white color dis- 
solved in some medium which will adhere to the ground, 
"^ater is useless. Turpentine answers very well. 

In whatever way the design is drawn on "the sni-face of the 
ground, it must next be cut in by means of a steel point, 
good sewing needles making excellent 0:103, and different 
sizes being used according to the strength of the lines required. 
The lines having been traced through the varnish so as to 
expose a bright copper surface, the next step is to make a 
border of wax around the plate so that the acid will not run 
off. The wax used for making tho border is a mixture of 
beeswax, resin and tallow, of such a consistency that it will 
be easily moulded by the fingers. The border should be 
nearly half an inch nigh, thus converting the plate into a 
shallow diah. This dish is half filled with a mixture of one . 
part of nitric acid and throo parts of water. After this plate 
has been exposed for a few minutes to this liquid, the acid is 
poured off, the plate waslnMl with pure water and allowed to 
dry. All the yery delicate lines are then ** stopped " out, as 
it IS called, by being coated by means of a camel-hair pencil 
with varnish dissolved in turjjentine. When this has dried, 
the acid is poured back again and allowed to act on the coarser 
linos, and the more frequently this process is introduced, the 
more perfect will be the ultimate result. 

When the lines have all been etched to the required depth, 
the varnish is removed by warming the plate and washing 
with turpentine. A copper-plate press is used to take off the 
impressions. 

The process of etching is very simple, and the results very 
satisfacibory. As an artistic recreation, it is capable of affor<£ 
ing a great deal of pleasure. 

The art of cutting names, etc., on steel tools and other ob- 
jects, is very simple and useful. The following givt^ ^ood 
results: 

Etching Liquid for Steel. — Mix 1 oz. sulphate of copper, i 
oz. of alum, and J a teaspoonful of salt reduced to powder, 
with 1 gill of vinegar and 20 drops of nitric acid. This liquid 
may be used either for eating deeply into the metal or for 
imparting a beautiful frosted appearance to the surface, 
according to the timiB it is allowed to act. Cover the parts 
you wish to protect from its influence with beeswax, taIloW| 
or some similar substance. 



Digitized by 



Google 



a THE WORKSHOP COMPANION. 

Mchivg on Glass. — Fancy work, ornamental figures, letlier- 
ing and monograms, are most easily and neatly cut into glass 
by the sand blast process, a simple api:)aratns for which will 
be found described in the You7ig Scleniist. Lines and figures 
on tubes, jars, etc., may be deeply etched by smearing the 
surface of the glass with beeswax, drawing the lines with a 
steel point, and exposing the glass to the fumes of hydro- 
fluoric acid. This acid is obtained by putting powdered 
fluorspar into a tray made of sheet lead and pouring sulphuric 
acid on it, after which the tray is slightly warmed. 

The proportions will, of course, vary with the i^urity of 
the materials used, fluorspar (except when in crystals) being 
generally mixed with a large quantity of other matter, but this 
point need not afl*ect the success of the operation. Enough 
acid to make a thin paste with the powdered spar will bo 
about right. Where a lead tray is not at hand, the powdered 
spar may be poured on the glass, and the acid poured on it 
and left for some time. As a general rule, the marks are 
opaque, but sometimes they are transparent. In this case, 
cut them deeply and fill up with black varnish, if they are 
required to be very plain, as in the case of graduated vessels. 

Liquid hydrofluoric acid has been recommended for 
etching, but as it leaves the surface on which it acts ti-ans- 
parent, it is not suitable. 

The agent which corrodes the glass is a gas which does 
not remain in the mixture of fluorspar and sulphuric acid, 
but passes off in the vapor. To mix fluorspar and sulijhurio 
acid and keep it in leaden bottles under the idea that the 
mixture is hydroflum^ add, is a gross mistake. Such an 
idea could enter into the head of none but the compiler of a 
cyclopaedia of recipes. 

Eye, Accidents to. 

Those who are engaged in mechanical operations run great 
risk of accidents to the eye, and therefore a few hints in re- 
gard to this subject may be valuable to our readers. 

Minute particles of dust, sand, cinders, small flies, etc., 
are best removed by means of a camel-hair brush or pencil, 
moistened but not wet, and drawn to a fine point. The brush 
will absorb the moisture of the eye and with it will take up 
the mote, provided the latter has not been driven into the 
eyeball. Where a brush is not at hand, a thin strip of soft 



Digitized by 



Google 



THE WORKSHOP COMPANION. 45 

paper, rolled spirally so as to form a fine point, is the best 
thing. 

The ragged chips and splinters which are separated during 
the processes of turning and chipping off, often find their 
way into the eye, and are sometimes very difficult to remove. 
The use of magnets has been recommended, but even the 
strongest magnet is entirely inefficient, if the splinters bo 
imbedded. In such a case, if the operator be gifted with a 
steady hand and firm nerves, the best instrument for remov- 
ing the offending paiticle is a good, sharp pen-knife. Indeed, 
we prefer it in every case as being far superior to softer 
articles. In simple cases let the patient stand up with his 
head firmly held against a door-post; turn back the eyelids 
. with the fingers; find the speck, and by passing the knifo 
gently but firmly over the ball, you may sweep it up. Where 
the splinter is actually imbedded in the eye, lay the patient on 
his back on a table; turn the eyelids back, and fix them by . 
means of a ring, and then you will find yourself free to 
operate without danger of interference from the patient's 
winking. A suitable ring may be found in most bunches of 
keys, or any mechanic can make one in two minutes out of a 
piece of stiff iron wire. Iron splinters always have ragged 
edges, and can be caught on the fine, sharp edge of a knifo 
and lifted out. But although we recommend the use of a 
sharp knife, it must be remembered that no cutting of the 
eyeball is to be permitted in any case, excei^t by an ex- 
perienced occulist. 

Where the person who is operating is at all nervous or 
timid, it will not do to use a knife. In this case, take some 
soft, white silk waste and wind it round a splinter of wood 
so as to completely cover the end and form a little brush of 
looped threads. Tie it fast. When such a brush is swept 
over that part of the eyeball where the offending substance 
is imbedded, the latter will soon be entangled in the threads 
and may be easily drawn out. 

In all such cases a good magnifier will be found of great 
assistance. The best form is perhaps a good watchmaker's 
glass. 

When corrosive chemicals, such as oil of vitriol, nitric acid, 
corrosive salts, etc., find their way into the eye, the best 
application is abundance of pure cold water. The eye should 
be A^W open and well washed out. When any irritating sub- 



Digitized by 



Google 



46 THE WORKSHOP COMPANION. 

stance gets into the eye, the lid is apt to close spasmodically, 
and it* allowed to remain so, no water can get in. 

In the case of lime, however, the action of water would 
only increase the diiiiculty. A little vinegar and water forma 
the best wash for lime, potash, soda, or ammonia. 

Fires. 

Most of the fires that occur might be avoided by proper 
care, and the following hints, if carefully observed, will aid 
materially in avoiding such accidents: 

1. Never leave matches where they can be reached by 
children, and if one should fall on the floor, be careful and 
search for it until you find it. A match, v/hen trodden on, 
readily ignites, and if unobserved may cause a serious fire, or 
what IS more likely, set a lady's dress in flames. Rais and 
mice have a great fondness for matches, and often caiTy tliem 
oil* to their holes, where, by nibbling, they set them on fire. 
Always keep matches in tin boxes, and never in paper i^ack- 
agcs. 

2. Children should be strictly prevented trom playing witli 
fire, and severely punished if caught so offending. It is far 
better that they should undergo the inconvenience of a little 
wholesome chastisement than either set the house on fire, 
disfigure themselves for life, or be burnt to death, from the 
want of being severely punished for disobedience. 

3. Never leave a lamp or candle burning at your bedside 
on a table when you go to bed, and avoid reading in bed; 
this is a most fruitful cause of loss of life and property. 

4. If a piece of paper is used to light a lamp, see that it is 
properly extinguished before leaving it, as it will sometimes 
burst out on fire after it is supposed to have been completely 
extinguished. 

6. If there be an escape of gas, so that the smell of it is 
very apparent, open the door and windows immediately to 
allow its escape, and facilitate the entrance of fresh air; and 
above all things avoid coming any way near with a light of 
any description. As soon as you can, shut off the gas at the 
meter. 

6. Be careful about stove-pipes passing through lath pai- 
titions; about kindling wood left in the oven over night to 
dry, and about the ash-box. Never keep ashes in a wooden 
vessel under any circumstances whatever, and never go to 



Digitized by 



Google 



THE WORKSHOP COMPANION. 47 

bed at night without seeing that eveiy possible cause for an 
accidental lire has been removed. Allow no linen or cotton 
clothes to hang neai' a stove over night lor the purpose of 
drying them. 

7. There never yet was a fire which a single pail of water, 
if applied in time, would not have quenched, therefore never 
go to bed without having a few pails of water at hand, and a 
dipper with which to throw it on the fire. Water can never 
be so well applied if thrown from the pail itself. Spontaneous 
combustion is no imaginary danger, therefore never leave 
heaps of oiled rags and similar rubbish lying around. 

As most of us are liable to be caught in a burning build- 
ing, it would be well for us to impress the following hints 
upon the mind, as they may stand us in good stead if a firo 
should occur: 

1. Every householder should make each person in hLs 
house acquainted with the best means of escape, whether the 
fire breaks out at the top or at the bottom. In securing the 
street door and lower windows for the night, avoid compli- 
cated fastenings or impediments to an immediate outlet in 
case of fire. 

2. Inmates, at the first alarm, should endeavor to reflect 
what means of escape there are in the house; if in bed at the 
time, wrap themselves in a blanket or bedside carjiet; open 
neither windows nor doors more than necessary; shut every 
door after them. This is most important to observe. 

3. In the midst of smoke it is comparatively clear toward 
the ground, consequently progress through the smoke can 
be made on the hands and knees. A silk handkerchief, 
worsted stockings, or other flannel substance wetted and 
drawn over the face, permits free breathing, and excludes, to 
a great extent, the smoke from the lungs. A wet sponge is 
alike efficacious. 

4. In the event of being unable to escape, either ?)jr vhe 
street door or roof, the persons in danger should immediately 
make their way to a front room window, taking care to close 
the door after them, and those who have charge of the house- 
hold should ascertain that every individual is there assembled. 

6. Persons thus circumstanced should never precipitate 
themselves from the windows while there remains the least 
probability of assistance; and even in the last extremity a 
plain rope is invaluable, or recourse may be had to joining 

Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



43 THE WORKSHOP COMPANION. 

sheets or blankets together, fastening on^ end round the bed- 
post or other furniture. This will enable one person to 
lower all the others separately, and the last may let himself 
down with comparatively little risk. Select a window over 
the doorway rather than over the area. 

Clothes mt Fire. — So many accidents are daily occurring 
from broken kerosene lamps, and clothes taking fire from 
gas lights and open fire-places, that it is very important to 
know what to do under such circumstances. Three persons 
out of four would rush right up to the burning individual, 
and begin to paw with their hands without any aim. It is 
useless to tell the victim to do this or that, or call for water. 
In fact it is generally best not to say a word, but seize a 
blanket from a bed, or a cloak, or any woolen fabric — ^if none 
is at hand, take any heavy material — hold the comers as far 
apai-t as you can, stretch them higher than your head, and 
running boldly to the person, make a motion of clasjung in 
the arms, just about the shoulders. This instantly smothers 
the tire and saves the face. The next instant throw the un- 
fortunate person on the floor. This is an additional safety 
to the face and breath, and any remnant of flame can be put 
out more leisurely. When the person whose clothes take fire 
is alone, the dafiger is not unfrequently increased by the 
sufferer running about in a state of alarm; whereas it would 
be better for him to roll on the floor until the fire is extin- 
guished, or better still, to cover himself with a loose carpet, 
rug, or blanket, to exclude the air, till a sufficient supply of 
water is obtained to throw over him. In either case, after the 
fire has been put out, the individual should be placed on a 
bed, and the clothes removed piecemeal by cutting them o£F; 
much caution is required in taking away the body linen 
without tearing off the skin, and where the linen sticks, so 
much only should be cut off as can be detached readily. 

Fire Proof Dresses. — Some years ago Queen Victoria ap- 
pointed a commission to investigate this subject. It was 
found that there were but four salts which were applicable 
to light fabrics: 1, Phosphate of ammonia; 2, a mixture of 
phosphate of ammonia and chloride of ammonia; 3, sulphate 
of ammonia; 4, tungstate of soda. Of these, the best was 
fcungstate of soda, a salt which is not by any means expensive. 
Sulphate of ammonia is objectionable, from the fact that it 
acts on the irons and mould « the fabric. The tungstate of 



Digitized by 



Google 



THE WOKKSHOP COMPANION. 49 

soda is neither injurious to the texture or color, or in any 
'legree difficult of application in the washing process. The 
iron passes over the material quit« as smoothly as if no solu- 
tion had been employed. The solution increases the stiffnass 
of the fabric, and its protecting power against fire is perfect. 
This salt offers only one difficulty, viz: the formation of a 
bitungstate, of little solubility, which crystallizes from the 
solution; but it was found that a very small percentage of 
phosphate of soda rendered the tungstate quite stable. The 
best method of applying these salts is to take one ounce of 
tungstate of soda and a quarter of an ounce of phosphate of 
soda, and dissolve them in a quart of water. The goods aro 
moistened with this solution before being starched, and they 
may be afterwards ironed and finished without the least 
difficulty. 

Articles prepared in this way are perfectly uninflammable. 
They may be charred by exposure to fire, but they do not 
burQ readily unless there is some extraneous source of heat, 
and they can not be made to burst into flame. By the aid of 
this discovery, a lady dressed in the lightest muslin might 
walk over a row of footlights, and the only result would be 
that the lower part of her dress would be injured. Unless 
her person actually came in contact 'with the gas flames, she 
hersQlf would suffer no injury. In country places, where 
tungstate of soda cannot be procured, a mixture of three 
parts borax, and two and a half parts sulphate of magnesia, 
in twenty parts of water, may be used with good effect. 

Fly-Papers. 

sticky or adhesive fly-papers are to be discouraged, as 
it is a cruelty to subject even flies to the long struggles and 
slow death caused by it. Such papers, however, are occa- 
sionally sold, and are prepared by coating paper with fac- 
titious bird-lime. Or the bird-lime is smeared upon wooden 
sticks standing in a base, for instance, a flower-pot, when 
they will adhere to it. A better plan is to mix some poison 
with the adhesive mass, but care should be taken lest chil- 
dren get at it. Cooley gives the following formula: Treacle^ 
honev, or moist sugar mixed with about l-12th of their 
weight of orpiment (yellow tersulphide of arsenic) . Redwood's 
formula is: Small quassia chips, i oz. ; water, 1 pint; boil 10 
minutes, strain, and add 4 oz. of treacle. Flies will drink 
this with avidity, and are soon destroyed by it. 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



60 THE WORKSHOP COMPANION. 

Freezing Mixtures. 

The temperatures here given are Fahrenheit. When ice ot 
anow are not to be had and it is desii-ed to cool any solid, 
liquid or gas, a good freezing mixture is the simplest method 
of accomplishing the object. The following mixtures are the 
moHt convenient and eflicient: 

1. Nitrate of ammonia, carbonate of soda and water, equal 
parts by weight. The thermometer sinks 57"^. 

2. Phosphate of soda, 9 parts; nitrate of ammonia, 6 parts; 
diluted nitric acid, (acid 1 part, water 2 parts,) 4 parts. 
Keduces the temperature 71° or from 50° to — 21°. 

3. Sal ammoniac, 5 parts; nitrate of potash, 5 parts; sul- 
phate of soda, 8 parts; water, 16 parts. Reduces the tem- 
perature 46° or from 70° to 24°. This is one of the cheapest, 
most readily procured, and most convenient of mixtures. 

Freezing mixtures are often used when it is required to 
produce a greater degree of cold than can be obtained by 
the mere application of ice. When ice is at hand, as it gen- 
erally is in this country, the following should be used: 

1. Finely pounded ice, 2 parts; salt, 1 part. This mixture 
reduces the temperature to 5°. 

2. Finely pounded ice, 2 parts; crystallized chloride of 
calcium, 3 parts. Reduces the temperature from 32° to — 40°. 

3. Finely pounded ice, 7 parts; diluted nitric acid, 4 parts. 
Reduces the temperature from 32° to — 30°. 

In every case the materials should be kept as cool as pos- 
sible. Thus the ice should be pounded in a cooled mortar 
with a c(5oled pestle, and the mixture should be made in ves- 
sels previously cooled. By attention to these particulars it 
is easy to freeze mercury at any time by means of these 
simple and easily practiced methods, though, of course, the 
modern laboratory is provided with agencies of far greater 
cooling power. 

Fumigating Pastils. 

For the purpose of deodorizing a room in which there is 
an offensive smell, common coffee berries, and even rags or 
brown paper, if properly burned, will serve admirably. The 
smoke from these substances not only neutralizes the odors, 
but really acts as a disinfectant to a slight extent. In burn- 
ing coffee, paper or rags for this purpose, care must be taken 
to prevent them from burning too freely. If they burn with 



Digitized by 



Google 



THE WORKSHOP COMPANlOl^. fil 

a free, bright flame, the proper effect will not be produced. 
They should be allowed to smoulder quietly, and they do 
this best when they are thrown on hot coals, or a hot shovel 
and set on fire. 

An excellent substitute for pastils is heavy brown paper, 
which has been dipped in a solution of nitre and then dried. 
This burns freely without flame, and if it be dipped in a 
solution of benzoin, the odor is very pleasant. The best 
thing, however, is pastils. They are easily made as follows: 

1. Paris Fa)vnuki. — ^Benzoin, 2 oz. ; balsam of tolu and 
yellow sandal wood, of each 4 drachms; nitre, 2 dmchms; 
labdanum, 1 drachm; charcoal, 6 oz. Reduce to powder, mix 
thoroughly and make into a stiff paste with gum tragacanth. 
Form into small cones and dry them in the air. 

2. Formula of Henri/ and Gruibourt. — Powdered benzoin, 16 
parts; balsam of tolu and powdered sandal wood, each 4 

Earts; charcoal powder, 48 parts; powdered tragacanth and 
kbdanum, each 1 part; powdered nitre and gum arabic, each 
2 parts; make into a paste with 12 parts cinnamon water, form 
into cones and dry. 

3. The following formula is somewhat complex, but gives 
very fine results: Take the charcoal of any fight wood, 200 
parts; gum benzoin, 100 parts; powdered sandal wood, 50 
parts; balsam of tolu, 50 parts; Storax (Styrax calamita), 50 
parts; gum olibanum, 50 parts; cascarilla bark, 100 parts; 
cloves, 40 parts; cinnamon (Ceylon), 40 parts; potassium 
nitrate, 75 parts. Reduce the ingredients to powder, and 
mix them with oil of Ceylon cinnamon, 5 parts; oil of cloves, 
5 parts; oil of lavender, 5 parts; balsam of Peru, 10 pai*ts; 
camphor, powdered, 1 part. Then add mucilage of traga- 
canth sufficient to make a mass which is to be formed into 
conical cylinders about | to 1 inch high, and ending at the 
bottom in three projections. Dry them in a warm place. 

Gilding. 

A covering of gold, when judiciously applied to the proper 
parts of any object adds greatly to its beauty, and in the case 
of metals, such as steel, copper, silver, etc., the gold, being 
capable of resisting the action of most chemical agents, proves 
a very perfect protector against corrosion. Metals are now 
generally gilt by means of the electrotype process, though 
(he old method by means of an amalgam, is still used in some 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



62 THE WORKSHOP COMPANION. 

cases. Stamped goods, snch as cheap jewelry, are also 
made out of slieete of metal which, after being heavily gilt, are 
lolled out thin, the gold being thus spread over an astonisli- 
ing extent of surface. For gilding leather, wood, etc., gold 
in the form of leaf or powder is generally used. 

Gilding with Gold-Lea/, — There are various methods appli- 
cable, according to the diflferent circumstances and the 
character of the objects to be gilded. Book-binders use gold- 
leaf in two ways — ^to gild on the edge, and to place gold let- 
ters on the binding. To gild on the edge, the edge is smoothly 
cut, put in a strong press, scraped so as to make it solid, and 
the well- beaten white of an egg or albumen put on thinly; 
the gold-leaf is then put on before the albumen is dry; it is 
pressed down with cotton, and when dry polished with an 
agate polisher. To put on the lettering, the place where the 
letters are to appear is coated with albumen, and after it is 
dry, the type to be used is heated to about the boiling point 
of water, the gold-leaf put on, either on the book or on the 
type, and then placed on the spot where the lettering is 
desired, w^hen the gold-leaf will adhere by the heat of the 
type, while the excess of gold-leaf loosely around is rubbed 
off with a tuft of cotton. 

To do printing with gold-leaf, the sheet to be printed on is 
pinned to the tympan of a hand-press, and it is first printed 
with ink of any color, or with varnish, and then the type is 
covered with a large sheet of paper, the gold-leaf laid on, 
and the tympan laid down agedn, slowly and carefully, so as 
not to disturb the gold-leaf by motions of the air; then the 
pressure is again applied, when the gold-leaf will stick to 
the printed sheet, and the surplus can be rubbed off with a 
tuft of cotton. Ordinary printing in gold, silver and bronze, 
however, is done with powdered metal and not with leaf. 
The printing is rfirst done with a varnish specially made for 
the jjurpose; after the impression has been taken, the sheets 
are allowed to lie a short time so as to dry a little, but not 
completely, and while still tackj/ the gold, silver or bronze 
powder is sprinkled over the letters. The powder adheres 
to the varnish, and the surplus is easily removed by means 
of a tuft of cotton. 

In gilding picture-frames with gold-leaf there are two 
methods; one with the ordinary gold size, the other with 
varnish. The latter method does not allow polishing, but is 



Digitized by 



Google 



THE W0EF8H0P COMPANION. 63 

water-proof; the former is not. Tlie main point is to have a 
well prepared gronnd-work of say white lead and drying oil, 
smoothed down properly; thon follow several coats of cal- 
cined white lead in linseed oil and tnrpentine, with intervals 
of at least twenty-fonr hours between each coat, which must 
be carefully smoothed off with pumice-stone and fine emery- 
paper. Then the gold size is applied, which may be made from 
the sediment that collects at the bottom of the pot in which 
painters wash their brusheg; this is thoroughly ground and 
strained. When the gold size coat is sufficienuy dry so as to be 
a little sticky, apply the gold-leaf and press it on with cotton 
or a soft brush; after a few davs' hardening it is varnished 
with spirits or oil varnish. This gives a water-proof gild- 
ing, but ordinarily picture-frames are gilded with a gold size 
containing no oil. It is made of finely ground sal ammoniac, 
to which is added a very little beef suet; this is mixed with 
a pallet-knife, with parchment size dissolved in water, so as 
to flow from the knife when hot. The frame may be pre- 
pared first with a few coats of Paris white and glue-water, 
rubbed down smoothly, and finally apply the size, which 
must not be too thick, as then it will chip oflF, and if too thin 
it will not have sufficient body. The most difficult part in 
all these operations of gold-leaf gilding, is the application of 
the gold-leaf, which requires much practice, judgment, and 
great care, but with some attention to little details it can be 
easily learned. There ought to be no draught at the place 
of operation and the operator ought to avoid allowing his 
breath to blow upon the gold leaves, as they are so thin and 
light that the least breath of air causes them to fly about — 
worse than feathers. Turn the gold leaves — one at a time — 
out of the book upon the leather cushion; with the gilding- 
knife you may lift any leaf and carry it to a convenient place 
to cut it into the sizes required. !6low gently on the center 
of the leaf, and it will at once spread out and lie flat without 
any wrinkles, then cut it by passing the edge of the knife 
over it until divided. Place the work to be gilded as near as 
practicable in a horizontal position, and with a long camela*- 
hair pencil, dipped in a mixture of water with a little brandy, 
go over as much surface as the piece of gold is to cover; then 
take up the gold from the cushion with a tip. Drawing it 
over the forehead and cheek will dampen it sufficiently to 
make the gold adhere. This must then be carefully trans- 



Digitized by 



Google 



54 THE WORKSHOP COMPANION. 

ferred to its place on the work, and by gently breathing on 
it, it will adhere. Take care that the part to which it is 
applied be sufficiently wet, so that the gold-leaf will not 
crack. Proceed in this way, a little at a time, not attempt- 
ing to cover too much at once. K any cracks or flaws 
appear, immediately applv another piece of gold-leaf over 
it— large enough to cover the crack. If occasionally the gold 
does not appear to adhere, on account of the ground having 
become too dry, run a wet pencil close to the edge of the 
gold, so as to allow water to penetrate under the gold-leaf. 
When the work is dry (say in ten or twelve hours), it may be 
burnished with an agate tool, taking care to firet remove all 
the dust from the tool as well as from the gilded surface. 

Ornamental lines of gilding may be painted on wood and 
other articles by means of a fine camel-hair brush, using 
shell gold, which may be had at the artists' supply stores. 
This forms a very good method of ornamenting work done 
by the scroll ?aw, or carved work, such as frames, etc. 

Gilding Steel. — ^Polished steel may be beautifully gilded by 
means of the ethereal solution of gold. Dissolve pure gold 
in aqua regia, evaporate gently to diyness, so as to drive ofl 
the superfluous acid, re-dissolve in water and add three times 
its bulk of sulphuric ether. Allow to stand for twenty-four 
hours in a stoppered bottle and the ethereal solution of 
gold will float at top. Polished steel dipped in this is at 
once beautifully gilded, and by tracing patterns on the sur- 
face of the metal with any kind of varnish, beautiful devices 
in plain metal and gilt will be produced. For other metals 
the electro process is the best. 

Glass Working. 

Glass is usually brought into shape by being moulded or 
blown. Simple and complete directions for blowing small 
articles may be found in the Young Scientist^ vol. I, p. 37. 

There are a few other operations, however, which are con 
stantly needed by the amateur and which we will describe. 

Cutting Glass. — For cutting flat glass, such as window- 
panes, and for cutting rounds or ovals out of flat glass, the 
diamond is the best tool; and, ii the operator has no diamond 
it will always pay to carry the job to a glazier rather than 
waste time and make a poor job by other and inferior means. 
"When, however, it is required to cut off a very little from a 



Digitized by 



Google 



circle or Oval, the diamond is not available, except in vert 
skilful hands. In this casse a pair of pliers softened by heat- 
ing, or very dull scissors is the best tool, and the cutting i- 
best performed under water. A little practice will enable 
the oi)erator to shape a small round or oval with great 
rapidity, ease and precision. When bottles or flasks are to 
be cut) the diamond is still the best tool in skilful hands; 
but ordinary operators will succeed best with pastils, or a 
red hot poker with a pointed end. We prefer the latter, as 
being the most easily obtained and the most efficient; and we 
have never found any difficulty in cutting off broken flasks 
so as to make dishes, or to carry a cut spirally round a long 
bottle so as to out it into the form of a corkscrew. And, by 
the way, when so cut, glass exhibits considerable elasticity, 
and the spiral may be elongated like a ringlet. The process 
is very simple. The line of the cut should be marked by 
chalk or by pasting a thin strip of paper alongside of it; 
then make a file mark to commence the cut; apply the hot 
iron and a crack will start; and this crack will follow the 
iron wherever we choose to lead it. In this way jars aro 
easily made out of old bottles, and broken vessels of different 
kinds may l>e cut up into new forms. Flat glass may also 
bo cut into the most intricate and elegant forms. The red 
hot iron is far superior to strings wet with turpentine, fric- 
tion, etc. 

IhnUing Glass. -For drilling holes in glass, a common sto'^^ 
drill, well made and well tempered, is the best tool. The 
steel should be forged at a low temperature, so as to be sure 
not to bum it, and then tempered as hard as possible in a 
bath of salt water that has been well boiled. Such a drill 
will go through glass very rapidly if kept well moistened 
with turpentine in which some camphor has been dissolved. 
Dilute sulphuric acid is equally good, if not better. It is 
stated, that at Berlin, glass castings for pump-barrels, etc., 
aro drilled, planed and bored, like iron ones, and in the same 
lathes and machines, by the aid of sulphuric acid. A little 
practice with these different plans will enable the operator to 
cut and work glass as easily as brass or ii*on. 

Turning Glass in tlie LalJie. — ^Black diamonds are now so 
easily procured that they are the best tools for turning, 
planing or boring glass where much work is to be dona 
With a good diamond a skilful worker can turn a lens roughly 



Digitized by 



Google 



% THE WORKSHOP COMPANION. 

out of a piece of flat glass in a few seconds^ so that it will be 
very near the right shape. 

A splinter of diamond may be very readily fastened in the 
end of a piece of stont brass wire so that it may be used for 
drilling or turning glass. Bore a hole the size of the splinter 
and so deep that the diamond may be inserted bevond its 
largest part, but leaving the point projecting. Then, by 
means of a pair of stout pliers, it is easv to press the end of 
the brass so that it will ml in around the diamond and hold 
it tight. Diamonds are sometimes cemented in such holes 
by means of shellac, or even solder run around them. This 
answers for some purposes, but not for drilling or turning. 

Fitting Glass Stoppers. — ^Very few stoppers fit properly the 
bottles for which they are intended. The stoppers and bot- 
tles are ground with copper cones, fed with sand and made 
to revolve rapidly in a lathe, and the common stock are not 
specially fitted. To fit a stopper to a bottle ttiat has not been 
ground, use emery or coarse sand kept constantly wet with 
water, and replaced with fresh as fast as it is reduced to 
powder. When all the surface has become equally rough, it 
is considered a sign that the glass has been ground to the 
proper shape, as-until that time the projecting parts only 
show traces of erosion. This is the longest and hardest part 
of the work, as after that the pla-ss simply needs finishing 
and polishing. For that purjjose emery only can be used, 
owing to the fact that the material can be obtained of any de- 
gree of fineness, in this respect differing from sand. Other- 
wise the operation is the same as before, the emery being 
always kept moistened, and replaced when worn out. The 
grinding is continued until both the neck of the bottle and 
the stopper acquire a uniform finish, of a moderate degree of 
smootlmess, and until the stopper fits so accurately that noi 
shake can be felt in it, even though it be not twisted in 
tightly. * 

Glass Stoppers. — To remove glass stoppers when tightly 
fixed, it has been recommended to apply a cloth wet in hot 
water. This is an inconvenient and frequently unsuccessful 
method. The great object is to expand the neck of the 
bottle so as to loosen it on the stopper. If, however, the 
latter bo heated and expanded equally with iiie fonner, the 
desired effect is not produced; and this is often the case in 
applying hot water. By holding the neck of the bottle about 

_.tized by Google 



THE WOBKSJOP COMPANION. ^1 

halt an inch above the flame of a L).mp or candle, for a fe^ 
seconds, we have never failed in the most obstinate cases. 
The hands should be wrapped in a towel, and great care 
should be taken not to let the flame touch the glass, as this 
might cause it to crack. The bottle should be kept rapidly 
turning, during the operation, so as to bring all parts of the 
neck equally under the influence of the heat, when it will be 
rapidly expanded and the stopper may be withdrawn by a 
steady pull and twist. Sometimes it is necessary to tap the 
stopper lightly with a piece of wood; the jar is very apt to 
loosen the stopper. To twist the stopper, make, in a piece 
of wood, an oblong hole into which the stopper will just tit. 

Glass, To Powd&r. — ^Powdered glass is frequently used in- 
stead of paper, cloth, cotton or sand for filtering varnishes, 
acids, etc. It is not soluble or corrodible. gand, if purely 
silicious, would be better, but such sand is difficult to get; 
it too often contains matters which are easily con-oded or 
dissolved. Powdered glass when glued to paper is also used 
for polishing wood and other materials. It cuts rapidly and 
cleanly, and is better than sand for most purposes. Glass is 
easily pulverized after being heated red hot and plunged into 
cold water. It cracks in everv direction, becomes hard and 
brittle, and breaks with keenly cutting edges. After being 
pounded in a mortar it may be divided into powders of dif- 
ferent degrees of fineness by being sifted through lawn sieves. 

Glass, Imitation Ground— Put a piece of putty in muslin, 
twist the fabric tight, and tie it into the shape of a pad; well 
clean the glass first, and then putty it all over. The putty 
will exude sufficientlv through the muslin to render the stain 
opaque. Let it dry hard, and then varnish. If a pattern is 
required, cut it out in paper as a stencil; place it so as not 
to slip, and proceed as above, removing the stencil when 
finished. If there should be any objection to the existence 
of the clear spaces, cover with slightly opaque varnish. In 
this way very neat and cheap signs may be painted on glass 
doors. 

^Glass Ware, Packing. — ^Every one has this duty to perfor:f 
occasionally, and it is well to know how it should be done. 
The safety of glass articles packed together in a box does not 
depend so much upon the quantity of packing material used, 
as upon, the fact that no two pieces of glass come into actual 
CQBtect In packing plates^ a single straw placed bet^e^j:| 

ogle 



63 THE WORKSHOP COMPANION. 

two of them wiU prevent them from breaking each other. In 
packing bottles in a case, such as the collecting case of the 
microscopist, and the test case of the chemist, rubber rings 
slipped over each, will be found the best and handiest pack- 
ing material. They have this great advantage that they do 
not give rise to dust. 

Washing Glass Vessels. — In many operations where glass 
vessels are used, success will depend upon having the glass 
perfectly clean. Upon this subject a correspondent of the 
Chemical News says: Such a subject may seem too simple, but 
yet the more I see students at their work, the more I am im- 
pressed with the fact that but few know how to wash a beaker- 
glass clean. Some time since I took beakers from various 
students in my laboratory (which they had washed and put 
away), and held them under a'powerful stream of water until 
they were thoroughly wet. On taking them from under the 
spout, in almost every case the water ran off the glass in 
spots, showing that the glass was greasy. The best thing to 
wash beakers, etc., with, according to my experience, is sand- 
soap. Naturally, the sand must not be sharp. The soaps 
containing infusorial earth are most excellent for this pur- 
pose. Borax soap is also very efficacious. A piece of board 
about 20 cm. long, 15 cm. wide, and 4 cm. thick, should bo 
screwed on to the right (inside) of the sink. In this block a 
rectangular hole, about 2 cm. deep and 1 cm. smaller than 
the section of the soap when stood on its long end, is to be 
cut. The bottom of the cake of soap is then whittled away 
so that it fits tightly in the hole. It is now moistened and 
pushed into the aperture, where it remains tightly lixed. Uy 
wetting the right hand thoroughly, and rubbing on this soap 
ridge, a good lather is made. With the soapy hand the glass 
is rubbed and washed until, on taking it from under the 
stream, no oily spots appear, the glass appearing wet all over. 
The beaker is then dried with a good towel ('* glass towel "), 
wwA finally polished with a piece of chamois or kid leather. 
The final polish with kid is necessary, since the best towel 
leaves fibres on the glass. In cleaning test tubes, it is onlv 
necessarv to rub the probang on the soap. 

For cleaning flasks and bottles which have been soiled 
with varnishes or resins, or for cleaning the glass slides used 
for microscopic objects, proceed as follows: Remove all the 
bfils^gi, resi^, vw-ftisL etc., possibly by me^s o| hoft^, 



Digitized by 



Google 



THE WORKSHOP COMPANION. 69 

scraping, and a solntion of soda or potash. Wlien the article 
is as clean as possible, place it in strong sulphuric acid, to 
which must be added as much powdered bichromate of 
potassa. 

The chromic acid will quickly destroy all organic matter, 
and the article when washed in pure water will be found per- 
fectly clean. 

Grass. ^ 

Ch'ass, To Stain Dried. — There are few prettier ornaments, 
and none more economical and lasting, than bouquets of 
dried grasses mingled with the various unchangeable flowers. 
They have but one fault, and that is this, the want of other 
colors besides yellow and drab or brown. To vary their 
shade artificially, these flowers are sometimes dyed green. 
This, however, is in bad taste and unnatural. The best effect 
is produced by blending rose and red tints together, and with 
a very little pale blue with the grasses and flowers as they 
dry naturally. The best means of dyeing dried leaves, flow- 
ers and grasses, is to dip them into the alcoholic solution of 
the various compounds of aniline. Some of these have a 
beautiful rose shade; others red, blue, orange and puri:>fe. 
The depth of color can be regulated by diluting, if necessary, 
the original dyes, with alcohol, down te the shade desired. 
When taken out of the dye, they should be exposed to the 
air to diy ojff the alcohol. They then require arranging or 
cotting into form, as, when wet, the petals and fine filaments 
have a tendency to cling together. A pink saucer, as sold 
by most druggists, will supx)ly enough rose dye for two 
ordinary bouquets. The pink saucer yields the best rose dye 
by washing it off with water and lemon juice. The aniHne 
dyes yield the best violet, mauve and purple colors. 

Guns. 

The excellence of a gun depends very' much upon the form 
and finish of the interior of the barrels, and as the owner 
may, if he chooses, work the inside of his gun over so as to 
improve it, we give a few directions. 

' Freeing. — ^It has been found that a perfect cylindrical tuoe 
is not the bast form for a gun barrel. Guns shoot most 
closely and strongly when ths bore is vefiy slightly enlarged 
towards the muzzle. This enlargement is easily effected by 
paeans of verjr fine emery paper wrapped about a round roJa 



Digitized by 



Google 



eo THE WOEKSHOP C50MPANI0N. 

and -Qsed witli a little oil. The freeing may extend to about 
one-third of the length of the barrel, and the gun should be 
tested from time to time during the process, so as to get the 
very best results. The testing is done by firing a standard 
chM-ge of powder and shot at a sheet of brown paper and . 
noting the number of pellets that are put into a circle of 
given size, and also the force with which they are driven into 
a board. For ordinary bird guns, a 30-inch circle at forty 
yards, makes a good target. 

To Keep Barrels from Busting. — One of the great difficulties 
which the sportsman has to contend against is the rusting of 
his barrels, even when protected by the best browning. The 
alkaline matter existing in snow and in rain, under certain 
conditions of the atmosphere, works through the best coat- 
ings, and reaches the iron. Varnish, as ordinarily laid on, 
is objectionable, as it gives a gun a "Brummagem" look. 
The best plan is the foUowing: Heat the barrels to the tem- 
perature of boiling water (not any hotter, or you may injure 
them), and rub them with the best copal varnish, giving them 
a plentifid coating. Let them remain hot for half an hour, 
and then wipe them clean with a soft rag. In this way you 
can get enough of the varnish into the pores of the metal to 
act as a preservative, and, at the same time, no one would 
suspect that the barrels had ever been touched with varnish. 
We have applied boiled oil, beeswax, paraffin, and some 
other substances, in the same way, and obtained good results; 
but on the whole, we find nothing better than good copal 
varnish. 

Browning Gun BarreIs,-^To obtain a handsomely browned 
barrel, we must not only nse a first rate recipe, but we must 
apply a good deal of skill and no small amount of hard work. 
When barrels are imperfectly browned, the fault lies more 
frequently in defective work than in the use qf a poor recipe. 

The foUpwing are the directions given in the United 
Staifjs Ordnance Manual, and, it is to be presumed that 
these are the directions that are followed in the government 
armories. 

Materials for Browning Mixture. — Spirits of wine, Ij oz.; 
tincture of steel, 1^ oz.; corrosive sublimate, 1^ oz.; sweet 
spirits of nitre, 1^ oz. ; blue vitriol, 1 oz. ; nitric acid, 2 oz. 
To be mixed and dissolved in one 'quart of warm water, the 
^^ixtxire t9 be kept in glass bottles and not in earthen jugs. 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



THE WOEIiSHOP COMPANION. 61 

Pre'^ons to commencing the operation of browning, it is 
necessary that the barrel or other part should be made quite 
bright with emery or a fine smooth file (but not burnished), 
after which it must be carefully cleaned from all greasiness; a 
small quantity of powdered lime rubbed well over every part 
of the barrel, is the best for this purpose, but in the case of 
old work, which is very oily or greasy, or when the oil or 
grease has become dried or gummed on the surface, the bar- 
rels must be first washed with a strong solution of potash in 
warm water. After this the lime may be applied. Plugs of 
wood are then to be put into the muzzle of the barrel and 
into the vent, and the mixture applied to every part with a 
clean sponge or rag. The barrel is then to be exposed to the 
air for twenty-four hours, after which time it is to be well 
rubbed over with a steel scratcfi-card or scrcdch-hrush, until 
the rust is entirely removed; the mixture may then be ap- 
plied again, as before, and in a few hours the barrel will be 
sufficiently corroded for the operation of scratch-brushing to 
be repeated. The same process of scratching off the rust and 
applying the mixture is to be repeated twice or three times a 
diay for four or five days, by which time the barrel wiU be of 
a very dark brown color. 

When the barrel is sufficiently brown, and the rust has 
been carefully removed from every part, about a quart of 
boiling water should be poured over every part of me bar- 
rel, in order that the action of the acid mixture upon the 
barrel may be destroyed, and the rust thereby prevented 
from rising again. 

The barrel, when cold, should afterwards be rubbed over 
with linseed oil or sperm oil. It is particularly directed thai 
the steel scratch-card or scratch-brush be used in the placQ 
of a hard hair-brush, otherwise the browning will not \y^ 
durable nor have a good appearance. 

If the work be handled with unclean or grcQisy hands, im-; 
perfectly browned places will show v^^ere the hands Jiave 
touched the barrels. 

Vamislifor Browned Iron. — Shellac, 1 oz.; dragon's blood, 
3-16ths of anoz.; alcohol, 1 quart. ^ 

Very complete directions for browning gun-barrels rmsj 
be found in a little book called ** Shooting on the Wing, 
which may be obtftine^ frQuj tlie publishers of this yol- 
W9. 



Digitized by 



Google 



62 THE WOEKSHOP COMPANION, 

Handles, To Fasten. 

The handles of knives, forks, and similar articles, that 
have come off by being put in hot water, may be fastened on 
in the following manner: 

1. Take powdered resin and mix with it a small quantity 
of powdered chalk, whiting or slaked lime. Fill the hole 
in the handle with the mixture, heat the tang of the knife or 
fork and thrust in. When cold it will be securely fastened. 

2. Take one lb. resin and 8 oz. sulphur, melt together, 
form into bars, or when cold reduce to powder. One part of 
the powder is to be mixed with half a part of iron filings, 
brick dust or fine sand; fill the cavity of the handle with the 
mixture and insert the tang, previously heated. 

3. Brick dust and powdered resin, make a very good com- 
position. It may be melted and poured into the handle, or 
powdered and then put in, and the tang inserted warm. 

4. Chopped hair, flax, hemp or tow, mixed with powdered 
resin and applied as above. 

5. One pound colophony, 8 oz. sulphur; melt, and when 
cool reduce to powder. Mix with this some fine sand or 
brick dust, and use as stated. 

6. Take a portion of a quill, put it into the handle, warm 
the tang and insert it into the quill in the handle, and press 
it firmly. This is a simple method, and answers the purpose 
required very well. ^ 

Ink. 

The varieties of writing-fluids that have been devised and 
introduced are almost innumerable, but for practical pur- 
poses the inks in common use may be divided into thrt?o 
classes, viz: 1. Those which consist of a powder mechanic- 
ally divided and suspended in water by means of mucilage. 
2. Those which consist of chemical precipitates held in sus- 
pension in the same way. 3. Those ^vhicli consist of a true 
solution of some coloring matter, such as aniline or carmine. 
Of the first class, Indian or China ink is the gi-eat type. It 
consists of carbon in the form of very fine lamp-black, ground 
to a state of impalpable fineness in water, and mixed with 
some j)ure form of gelatine. Its use is wholly restricted to 
draughtsmen, who prefer it for several reasons. In the first 
place, it gives the finest and clearest black of any ink known; 
eeCQiid, it is unchangeable J m(l in th§ third place, it (loea 



Digitized by 



Google 



THE WORKSHOP COMPANION. eS 

not eorrotJe the fine and expensive steel instruments with 
which it is used. A reallv good article of Indian ink is some- 
what difficult to find. Much of the ink in market is gritty, 
and instead of being a fine jet black, it is of a blueish-gray 
color. Moreover, notwithstanding all the grinding that the 
artist can give it, the particles are always coarse, and it does 
not readily sink into the paper. With such ink it is difficult 
to draw fiiie, clear, black lines, and utterl;^ impossible to 
produce a soft D^ellow tint in shading. It is probable that 
the quality of tho ink depends not only upon the materials 
from which it is m\de, but upon the method pursued in its 
manufacture, and in regard to both these points we are as yet 
wholly in the dark. When good Indian ink is wanted, there- 
fore, the only method of securing it is to test carefully the 
various samples, until vre get a good one, and then secure a 
supply that will last indefinitely. Fortunately the last is not 
a difficult thing to do, when we have found a sample that 
suits us; for a single stick of Indian ink, if carefully used, 
will last many years, even in the hands of a professional 
draughtsman. Of late years i\ liquid Indian ink has been in- 
troduced, and has given good SL\tisfaction, but it is scarce and 
expensive. Since the ordinary Indian ink is made up with a 
fine animal glue, instead of mucilage made of vegetable gum, 
it very soon decomposes when groand up i;vdth water. lienco 
it can not be kept in bottles like ordinary ink, but must be 
prepared fresh whenever it is needed. As an ink for ordinary 
writing it is worthless, for the simj^le reason that it does not 
flow well, though for i^urjjoses where an absolutely indelible 
ink is needed — as, for instance, in wriding out deeds and 
rocords — nothing l)etter can be obtained. When used for 
this purjjose, the addition of a veri/ small quantity of caustic 
alkali— or, what Ls better yet, of ox-gall — causes it to flow 
freely and to sink deeply into the paper or other material 
uscv"* to receive it, provided the latter be not too heavily 
sized. When properly applied, neither heat, moisture, acids, 
alkfidies, nor chemicals of any kind, affect it; and it might 
therefore be properly used to write those records which are 
placed under the corner-stones of important buildings, and 
which are expected to endure for an indefinite period. 

The second class of inks comprises all those black inks and 
writing fluids that are commonly employed for commercial 
9pjT«?3j)o»d9nce and yecpj-ds. Jlie differei^tJ fprm^^l^P fpy tU© 



Digitized by 



Google 



64 THE WOEKSHOP COMPANION. 

preparation of ink that have been pnblished, would 'fill a 
good sized volume; but most of the inks and writing fluids in 
market consist of a precipitate of gallate or tannate of iron, 
held in suspension by means of mucilage. Since iron m&j 
be used in either one of two distinct conditions when it is 
employed for the manufacture of ink, it follows that two dis- 
tinct kinds of ink may be made from it. In one of these the 
iron is fully oxidated, and the ink is of a deep jet black. The 
precipitate of iron which exists in such ink seems to assume 
a coarse and heavy form, with a strong tendency to sink to 
the bottom of the containing vessel. It therefore requires a 
large proportion of mucilage to keep the coloring matter in 
suspension. The advantage which it possesses, is, that the 
ink is, from the very first, of a deep black ; but on the other 
hand, the objections are quite as important, and consist in 
the fact that it can not be made to flow freely, and that it 
does not sink weU into the paper, and is consequently easUv 
removed. On the other hand, ink made with salts in whicn 
the iron exists as protoxide, is always pale at first, but after- 
wards assumes a dark hue; it flows freely and sinks well yjto 
the fibre, so that it is difficult to remove marks made by it. 
This character it is apt to lose, however, when exposed to 
the air, as we shall note when speaking of the pifeservation of 
ink. 

In some cases a compromise is made, and the ink is pre- 
pared from materials, part of which oi^y are in a state of 
complete oxidation. An attempt is thus made te secure an. 
ink, which, while black from the first, will flow freely and. 
sink well into the paper, and some very good inks are thus; 
compounded. 

Most of the inks known as violet, mauve, blue, red, car-, 
mine, etc., consist of true chemical solutions, generally 
nowadays of aniline, though the finest red ink is stiU made, 
•from carmine dissolved in ammonia. From the fact that, 
there is no solid material to be kept in supension, these inks; 
do not require mucilage in their composition provided they^ 
^re used on paper that has a good deal of size in it; they con-, 
^equently flow freely, do not leave a heavy streak of liquid 
behind the pen, and the streak that they do leave sinks 
almost instantly intQ the paper and disappears. In using 
them, no blotter is required; and they are, therefore, great 
foy9rite9 ydih authors and those persons whQ pay less regard 



Digitized by 



Google 



_ -' THE WORKSHOP OOMPANIOK. «9 

to £he color of their writing than to the ease with which the 
work is done, and the clearness and unblotted appearance 
which it presents. Bisit from the fact that no really good 
black ink of this class has yet been produced, they have not 
<5ome into general use amongst book-keepers and commercial 
men, and it must be acknowledged that on the whole a good 
black ink gives a better appearance to a set of books than ink 
of any other color. ' 

Ink used for copying letters by means of the press, requires 
to be thicker than that used for ordinary writing, and there- 
fore it is less pleasant to use; but the great advantage which 
attends the mechanical process of copying letters will always 
keep up the demand for it. 

Such being the peculiar character of the inks in common 
use, it may be well to say a few words concerning the best 
inethods of preserving them in good condition. The great 
enemies of all inks are evaporation, dust, and decomposition, 
and, in the case of iron inks, oxidation. The first difficulty 
can only be avoided by keeping the ink from exposure to the 
air, and this is best effected by adopting an inkstand in which 
the ink exposes a very small surface to the air. Many of 
the inkstands in use are made large at the base, for the pur- 
pose of rendering them difficult to overturn. In such stands 
the ink is spread out in a thin, wide layer, and not only 
evaporates rapidly, but where ordintiry black ink is used, the 
iron oxidates, and the ink consequently det(iriorates. A very 
common practice on the part of those who use ink, is to leave 
the mouth of the stand uncovered, in which case the ink 
becomes in a short time reduced to mud. All these diffi- 
culties may be in a measure avoided by using a heavy stand, 
liaving a small well or ink-holder, which should be kept well 
covered when not in use, and ought to be frequently cleaned, 
the old ink being thrown away. The supply of ink should 
be kept in a bottle, securely corked, and when the stand is 
filled, the new ink ought never to be poured into the old, as 
is generally done. Throw the old ink away; wash out tho 
«tand carefully, and fill it up with new fluid, and then you 
can enjoy the luxury of writing with ink that flows freely, 
and does not take half a minute to moisten the paper at each 
stroke that you attempt to make. To keep ink in good 
order, the stand should be washed out every two or throo 



Digitized by 



Google 



6(5 TflE WORKSHOP OOMtANlON. 

Many inks, especially those made with iron and gaUs, aM 
liable to mould and decompose. The formation of mould 
may, to a certain extent, be prevented by the use of creosote, 
carbolic acid, or cloves, and most of the better class of inks 
in market are prepared so as to resist this evil. 

In the recipes generally given for making ink, it is recom- 
mended to boU the ingredients. A much better plan is to 
powder the galls and macerate them in cold water. By this 
latter process, more time is of course necessanr to make it; 
but then the ink is very superior, and entirely free from 
extractive matter which has no inky quality, and which 
only tends to clog the pen and to turn the ink ropy and 
mouldy. 

Black Ink. — 1. In 1 gallon of water macerate 1 lb. of finely 
powdered Aleppo galls for two weeks, and strain off the 
liquid. Dissolve b\ oz. sulphate of iron and 5 oz. gum arable 
in as little water as is necessary, and mix the two liquids with 
constant stirring. Keep in a tall bottle, allow it to settle for 
some days, and it will be ready for use. 

2. Take gall nuts, broken, one pound; sulphate of iron, 
half a pound; gum acacia and sugar candy, of each, a quarter 
of a pound; water, three quarts. Place the whole of these 
ingredients in a vessel where they can be agitatod once a 

^day; after standing for a foi-tnight or three weeks the ink is 
ready for use. Logwood and similar materials, are often 

- advised to be used in conjunction with the gall nuts, but 
they serve no good purpose unless it be to make a cheaper 
article which fades rapidly. 

3. It is said that the juice of elder'k enies to which sul- 
phate of iron has been added, makes a good ink. The best 
formula is said to be 12^ pints juice and i oz. each sulphate 
of iron and crude pyroligneous acid. 

Runge's Black Ink. — 1. The original recipe of the inventor 
is as follows: Digest i lb. logwood in chips for 12 hours in 3 
pints boiling water. Simmer down gently to 1 quart, filter 
and add 20 grains yellow chromate of potassa. 

2. The following modification of the above is more easily 
prepared: Dissolve 16 parts of extract of logwood in 1,000 
parts of water, and add 1 part of neutral potassium chronmte 
(yellow chromate of potassa). 

" Blue Ink. — Take 6 drachms pure Prussian blue and 1 
drachm oxalic acid. Grind in a mortar with a little water 



Digitized by 



Google 



l^HE WOEKSHOP 00MI>AK10K. 67 

nntil they form a perfectly smooth paste. Dissolve a suf- 
ficient quantity of this paste in water to give the proper tint. 

Cwmine Ink, French Process, — Take 22 grammes (4 grains) 
of the best carmine, add to it sixty-five grammes (2 ounces) 
of caustic ammonia, add one gramme (15^ grains] of white 
gum arabic. Leave the mixture until the gum is entirely 
dissolved. This ink is undoubtedly dearer than that pre- 
pared in the ordinary way, but it is incomparably more 
beautiful and more durable, for experience has proved thn.t 
letters written with this ink, have for forty years been pre- 
served without the slightest alteration. 

Red Ink. — ^Boil i lb. of Brazil wood, \ oz. of gum, J oz. 
of sugar, and ^ oz. of alum in a sufficient quantity of vinegar. 

Aniline Inks. — The following formulae for aniline inks are 
from recent authorities, and are said to give superior results : 

Alcoholic Solutions. — 1. General Formula: Dissolve 15 
parts of aniline color in 150 parts of strong alcohol in a ves- 
sel of glass or enamelled iron for three hours; then add 1,000 
parts distilled water; heat gently for some hours, — in fact, 
till the odor of the alcohol has quite disappeared; then add 
a solution consisting of 60 parts of powdered gum arabic in 
250 parts of water. 

2. Special Formula for Violet: Digest i oz. aniline violet 
in 1 oz. alcohol in a suitable vessel, as above, for three hours; 
then add 1 qt. of distilled water, and heat gently till odor of 
spirit is dissipated. Then add 2 drachms gum arabic dis- 
solved in i pt. water, and allow the whole to settle. This 
will bear dilution, if desired, with an additional quantity of 
distilled water. 

3. Special Formula for Blue: Dissolve 15 grains aniline 
blue in 1 oz. alcohol, and add 6 oz. in distilled water. Boil 
in proper vessel, as above, until odor of alcohol has dis- 
appeared. Then add 3 drachms powdered gum arabic dis- 
solved in 4 oz. distilled water. Finally filter. It will be 
l>erceived that there is considerable difference in the above 
special formulae, but there can be no haim in making it too 
strong, as it is no difficult matter to dilute with distilled 
water to taste. 

Aqueous Solutions. — 1. Magenta, 1 oz. to the gallon of 
boiling distilled water. 2. Violet: \ oz. to a gaUou ditto. 
3. Blue: lo&i^'^^ pts. ditto. 4. Green: 1 oz. to 5 ptB. 
ditto. 



Digitized by 



Google 



68 THE WORKSHOP COMPANION. 

The addition of a small quantity of vinegar will consideis 
ably improve the color of blue aniline fluid. These aqueous 
solutions are very enduring, though not exactly permanent, 
as they give way to long-continued exposure to sunlight. 
They are very limpid, dry quickly, and never clog. They . 
should of course be filtered. 

Gold Ink. — ^Grind gold-leaf with honey in a mortar until ii: 
is reduced to a fine powder. Wash out the honey with hot 
water and add mucilage of gum arable. A cheap article may 
be made by using yellow bronze powder. 

Silver Ink, — Prepared in the same way as gold ink, using 
BUver leaf or silver bronze powder. 

Marking Ink for Linen. — ^Dissolve \ oz. nitrate of silver in 
1 oz. water and add strong liquid ammonia ontil the precipi- 
tate which is at first formed is redissolved. Add 1\ drachms 
gum mucilage and enough coloring ma er to render the 
writing clearly visible. The writing is r jide black and in- 
delible by passing a hot iron over it. Keep in the dark. 

IndelW \ Aniline Ink. — ^Triturate If grammes of aniline- 
black with 60 drops of strong hydrochloric acid and 42 or 43 
grammes strongest alcohol; then add to it a hot solution of 
2i grammes gum arable in 170 grammes of water. 

This ink attacks steel pens but little. It is not destroyed 
either by strong mineral acids or by strong lye. 

If the first alcoholic solution of aniline black be diluted 
with a solution of 2^ grammes of shellac in 140 grammes of 
alcohol (instead of ^m arable in 170 grammes of water) an 
ink is produced which may be employed for writing on wood, 
brass or leather, and which is remarkable for its deep black 
color. 

Indelible Indian Ink. — ^Draughtsmen are well aware of the 
fact that lines drawn on paper with good India ink which 
has been well prepared, can not be washed out by mere 
sponging or washing with a brush. Now, however, it is 
proposed to take advantage of the fact that glue or g^tine, 
when mixed with bichromate of potassa, and exposed to the 
light, becomes insoluble, and thus renders India ink, which 
always contains a little gelatine, inddible. Eeisenbichler, 
the discoverer, calls this kind of ink "Harttusch," or "hard 
India ink ;" it is made by adding to the common article, when 
making, about one per cent., in a very tine powder, of 
bichromate of potash This must be mixed with the ink in 



Digitized by 



Google 



THE WORKSflOP COMPANION. 69 

a dry state; otherwise, it is said, the ink could not be ground 
up easily in water. Those who can not provide themselves 
with ink prepared as above in the cake, can use a dilute 
solution of bichromate of potash in rubbing up the ink; it 
answers the same purpose, though the ink should be used 
thick, so that the yellow salt will not spread. 

Indestructible Ink.. — ^An ink that can not be erased with 
acids is obtained by the following recipe: Ta good gfidl ink 
add a strong solution of fine soluble Prussian blue in dis- 
tilled water. This additiDu makes the ink, which was pre- 
viously proof against alkalies, equally proof against acids, 
and forms a writing fluid which cannot be erased without 
destroying the paper. The ink writes greenish blue, but 
afterwards turns black. 

Ink that will not Freeze. — ^It is said that a mixture of equal 
parts of concentrated glycerine, alcohol and water, deeply 
colored with aniline black, does not freeze in the coldest 
weather, flows freely from the pen, and does not spread. 
Our only fear would be that such ink would not dry thor- 
oughly. 

Sympatkdic Ink or Secret Ink. — ^Write with thin solution of 
starch, and let the correspondent wash with solution of 
iodine. 

2. Write with milk, onion juice or lemon juice, and let 
the correspondent expose to heat. 

3. Write with solution of tartar emetic and wash with any 
alkaline sulphuret. 

4. Brown. — On dissolving 1 part of potassium bromide, 
and 1 part of copper sulphate in 20 parts of water, and 
writing with the solution on paper, very carefvl heating will 
turn the writing brown. 

5. Yellowish-green. — ^Writing done with a solution of 2 
parts of potassium chromate, 2 of nitric acid, 2 of sodium 
chloride in 40 parts of water, turns yellowish-green on gentle 
warming. 

6. Blue. — ^A solution of equal parts of sodium chloride 
and cobalt chloride in 20 tunes the amount of water pro- 
duces lines which turn blue on gentle warming. 

Letters may be written on postal cards with these inks, 
and will remain invisible until washed with the appropriate 
solution or exposed to heat. To prevent the letters from 
being seen by close scrutiny the solutions should be very 



Digitized by 



Google 



70 THE WOBKSHOP COMPANION. , 

dilute, and to distract the attention of those not in the 
secret, write some unimportant matter, in lines far apaift, 
and between them write the private matter in secret or sym- 
pathetic ink. 

Inks for Rubber Stamps and Stencils. — 1. Black. Bub to- 
gether one part of finest lampblack and 2 parts of Prussian 
blue with a little glycerin, then add 1 part powdered gum 
arable, and enough glycerin to form a thin paste. 

2. Carmine. — ^Dissolve 24 grains of carmine in 3 fl. oz. of 
water of ammonia, then add 2 fl. drachms of glycerin. 
Incorporate with this i oz. of powdered gum arabic. 

3. Blue. — Rub together 6 parts of pure Prussian blue and 
1 part oxalic acid with a little water, to a perfectly smooth 
paste. Let it stand in a rather warm place over night, then 
rub it with more water, and with 1 part of gum arabic to a 
thin paste. 

4. Aniline inks may be made of any desired shade in the 
same manner. The best way of using these inks is by ap- 
plying them, by means of a small pad, uniformly to a little 
cushion, on which the stamps are then inked. 

The above formulae have been tested by experience, and 
are said to give good results. Another set of formulae, also 
highly recommended, is the following: 

5. Black. — Finest lampblack, 10 parts ; powdered gum 
arabic, 4 parts ; glycerin, 4 parts ; water, 3 parts. Dissolve 
the gum arabic in the water, add the glycerin, then rub the 
lampblack with the mixture in a mortar. 

6. Colored. — Replace the lampblack in the above formula 
by the appropriate color ; chrome-yeUow for yellow ; red 
lead or red ochre for red ; green, ultramarine, or chrome- 
green for green ; indigo or Prussian blue, or blue ultramarine 
for blue ; umber for brown, etc. 

Ink Eraser. 

A good ink eraser is thus made : Take of chloride of lime, 
one pound, thoroughly pulverized, and four quarts of soft 
water. The above must be thoroughly shaken when fii-st put 
together. It is required to stand twenty-four hours to dis- 
solve the chloride of lime ; then strain through a cotton cloth, 
after which add a teaspoonful of acetic acid to every ounce 
of the chloride of lime water. The eraser is used by revers- 
ing the penholder into the fluid, and applying it, withoat 



Digitized by 



Google 



THE WORKSHOP COMPANION, 71 

mbbing, to the word, figure, or blot required to be erased. 
When tlie ink has disappeared, absorb the fluid with a blot- 
ter, and the paper is immediately ready to write upon again. 
ChloHde of lime has before been used with acids for the 
l>nri)ose as above proposed ; but in all previous processes thc3 
chloride of lime has been mixed with acids that burn and 
destroy the paper. 

Inlaying. 

Inlaying is a teim applied to work in which certain figures 
which have been cut out of one kind of material are filled up 
with another of a different color. Such work is known as 
marquetry, and also as Boule work, and Beisner work, from 
the names of two famous French artists. 

The simplest method of producing inlaid work in wood, is 
to take two thin boards, of wood or veneers, and glue them 
together with paper between, so that they may be easily sep- 
arated again. Then, having drawn the required figures on 
tliem, cut along the lines with a very fine, hair-like saw. 
This process is known as counterpart sawiiig, and by it the 
pieces removed from one piece of wood, so exactly corres- 
pond with the perforations in the other piece, that when 
the two colors are separated and interchanged, the one mate- 
rial forms the ground and the other the inlay or pattern. If 
the saw be fine and the wood very dry when cut, but after- 
wards slightly damped when glued in its place, the joint is 
visible only on very close inspection, and then merely as a fine 
line. After being cut, the boards or veneers are separated 
(which is easily done by splitting the paper between them), 
and then glued in their places on the work which they are to 
ornament. 

Imitation Inlaying. — Suppose an oak panel with a design 
inlaid with walnut is wanted. Grain the panel wholly in oil. 
This is not a bad ground for walnut. When the oak is dry, 
grain the whole of the panel in distemper. Have a paper 
with the design drawn thereon, the back of which has been 
rubbed with whiting, place it on the panel, and with a 
pointed stick trace the design. Then with a brush and quick 
vamish trace the whole of the design. When the varnish is 
dry, with a sponge and water remove the distemper, where 
the varnish has not touched. This, if well executed, pre- 
sents a most beautiful imitation of inlaid wood« Marbles 
are executed in a similar manner. 



Digitized by 



Google 



72 THE WORKSHOP COMPANION. 

Iron. 

This is undoubtedly the most important metal used in the 
arts. Directions for working it, such at least as woijld be 
valuable to professional blacksmiths, would occupy more 
space than we can aflford, and we therefore content ourselves 
with a few hints for amateurs. 

Forging. — ^As a general rule, those who are not practical 
blacksmiths had better take their work to a smith's shop. 
Cases may, however, arise where it is necessary to forge 
some little job, and the following hints may prove of use. 

In working iron a great deal depends upon the degree of 
heat to which it is raised. Blacksmiths distinguish five 
degrees, which they name as follows : 

1. The black-red heat, just visible by daylight. 

2. The low-red heat. 

3. The bright red heat, when the black scales may be seen, 

4. The white heat, when the scales are scarcely visible. 

5. The welding heat, when the iron begins to bum with 
vivid sparks. 

Of these temperatures the 1st, 2nd and 3rd are easily at- 
tained in a common stove or grate. It requires good man- 
agement to secure the 4:th in a common stove, and the 5th 
can hardly be obtained without a blast. The higher the 
temperature the softer and more easily worked the metal 
becomes, and the less liable to crack or split ; and as good 
iron is not easily spoilt, like steel, by a high heat, it is always 
best to get the metal pretty soft. 

Welding, — This operation requires considerable skill. The 
two great points to be attended to in making a perfect weld 
are that the metal shall be brought to a proper temperature, 
and that the surfaces to be united shall be perfectly clean. 
The latter point can only be secured by protecting the iron 
from the action of the air by means of some iiux. Sand is 
generally used by blacksmiths and answers very well-. Whea 
sand is brought into contact with oxide of iron at a high 
temperature, it combines with it and forms a fusible glass 
which flows over the surface of the iron and is easily driven 
out of the joint by pressure. Borax makes a still more fusi- 
ble flux and may be successfully used by amateurs, but is too 
expensive for common use. 

When two surfaces of iron, which have been cleansed by 
xaeans of sand or borax, are brought together at a high heat 



lized by 



Google 



THE WORKSHOP COMPANION. , 73 

and forcibly pressed into contact by hammering or pressure, 
they unite to form a solid mass. Bearing these principles in 
mind, a little practice will soon enable any one to make a re- 
spectable joint by welding. 

Ccise-hardei/img. — This process is simply the conversion of 
the surface of a piece of iron into steel. Case-hardened arti- 
cles, when plunged into cold water while highly heated, be- 
come as hard as the hardest steel, but they may be annealed 
and softened so as to be easily worked with files and turning 
tools, and afterwards hardened again so as to be as durable 
as ever. There are several processes for performing this op- 
eration. The following have been tested by experience : 

1. Where it is desired that the articles should be hardened 
to a considerable depth : Char a quantity of bones, just 
enough (and- no more) to enable you to powder them with a 
hammer. Lay a layer of this bone dust over the bottom of 
an iron traj^ or box, which may be easily made by bending 
heavy sheet iron into form. Lay the articles to be hardened 
on tne bone dust, taking care that they do not touch each 
other. Cover with bone dust and fill up the tray with spent 
dust, charcoal or sand. Expose to a bright cherry red heat 
for half an hour or an hour, and then turn the entire contents 
of the tray into a vessel of cold water. We have seen beau- 
tiful results obtained by this process when carried out in a 
common kitchen stove. 

Even raw bone dust, such as is sold for farming purposes, 
may be used with good -results. Pieces of gas pipe make 
good receptacles to hold the work, the ends being stopped 
with iron plugs. Wlien packing the articles in the tubes or 
trays, see that they do not touch each other. 

Bone black or ivory black may also be used, and, as they 
may be purchased ready prepared, we may avoid the disa- 
greeable process of roasting the raw material. 

As this roasting of bones, leather, etc., gives rise to most 
abominable odors, the author of this manual some years ago 
devised the following preparation, wliich was found to give 
very excellent results. Prepare a strong solution of prussiate 
of potassa, boil in it as much coarsely-powdered wood char- 
coal as can be mixed with it. Drain off the superfluous 
liquid, spread the charcoal on a board, and dry by exposure 
to the air. When dry, roast it at a temperature just below 
that of ignition, the object being to drive off all moisture^ 



Digitized by 



Google 



74 xHE WORKSHOP COMPANION. 

but not to decompose the prussiate, which, at a red heat, is 
converted into cyanide of potassium and some other com- 
pounds. The charcoal thus prepared, and afterwards re- 
duced to a moderately fine powder, will be found to answer 
quite as well as animal charcoal, and no difficulty will be 
found in case-hardening to a depth which will allow of a good 
deal of polishing before the soft metal underneath is reached. 

2. Where mere superficial hardening is required, heat the 
article to be hardened to a bright red ; sprinkle it liberally 
with powdered prussiate of potash. The salt will fuse, and 
if the piece of iron is small and gets cooled, heat it again and 
plunge into cold water. 

Bust and Corrosion. — ^Iron is easily corroded by even the 
weak acids. Sulphuric acid, nitric acid, and hydrochloric 
acid all act on it quickly and powerfully. Air and moisture 
also quickly corrode it. It is a curious fact that carbonate 
of soda protects iron very perfectly from rust. We have 
seen a piece of iron that had been kept in a solution of soda 
for twenty years, and yet was quite bright. 

There are several methods of protecting iron from rust. 
Painting, varnishing, tinning, zincing, etc., have all been 
tried with good effect. Painting and varnishing need no re- 
marks. Where bright work is to be temporarily protected, 
however, a paint of white lead and tallow may be used. 
This will not dry, and may be easily and quickly removed 
with a little turpentine. 

Zincing Iron. — The following is an excellent and chuip 
method for protecting from rust, iron ai-ticles exposed to the 
atmosphere, such as cramp-irons for stone, etc. : They are to 
be first cleansed by placing them in open wooden vessele, in 
water containing three-fourths to one per cent, of common 
sulphuric acid, and allowed to remain in it until the surface 
appears clean, or may be rendered so by scouring with a rag 
or wet sand. According to the amount of acid, this may re- 
quire from six to twenty-four hours. Fresh acid must be 
added according to the extent of use and of the liquid ; when 
this is saturated with sulphate of iron, it must be renewed. 
After removal from this bath, the articles are rinsed in fresh 
water, and scoured untU they acquire a clean metallic surface, 
and then kept in water in which a little slaked lime has been 
stirred, until the next operation. When thus freed from rust, 
they are to be coated with a thin film of zinc, while cold, by 

Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



THU WOBKSHOP CX)MPANION. 75 

means of chloride of zinc, which may be made \.j filling a 
glazed earthen vessel, of about two-thirds gallon' capacity, 
three-fourths full of muriatic acid, •.id atMing zinc clippings 
until effervescence ceases. The liquid Ls tlion to be turned 
off from the undissolved zinc, and preserved in a glass vessel. 
For use, it is poured into a sheet-zinc vcsst^l, of suitable size 
and shape for the objects, and about. i;3l) i)er cent, of its 
weight of finely powdered sal ammoniac a Ided. The articles 
are then immersed in it, a scum of lino bubbles forming on 
the surface in from one to two minutes, indicative of the 
completion of the operation. The articles ai*e next drained, 
so that the excess may flow back into the vessel. The iron 
articles thus coated with a fine film of zinc are placed on' 
clean sheet iron, heated from bjneath, and perfectly dried, 
and then dipped piece by piece, by means of tongs, into verjr 
hot (though not glowing) raoltan zinc, for a short time, until 
they acquire the temperature of the zinc. They are then 
removed and beaten, to cause the excess of zinc to fall off. 

Cold Process for Zinchtff Iron. — The metal is first cleaned 
bv being placed in a batii made up of water, 1,000 litres : 
chlorhydric acid, 550 litres ; sulphuric acid, 50 litres ; glycer- 
ine, 20 litres. On being removed from this bath, the metal 
is placed in a bath containing 10 per cent, of carbonate of 
potassa, and is next transferred to a metallizing bath, consist- 
ing of water, 1,000 litres ; chloride of tin, 5 kilos. ; chloride 
of zinc, 4 kilos. ; bitartrato of potassa, 8 kUos. ; acid sulphate 
of alumina, 4 kilos. ; chloride of aluminum, 10 kilos. The 
metal is to be left in this mixture for from three to twelve 
hours, according to the thickness of the layer of zinc to be 
desired. 

Tinning Iron. — The surface of the iron is cleaned from scale 
by vitriol or sulphuric acid, and then scoured with sand. It 
is now coated with a strong solution of chloride of zinc, and 
dipped into melted tin. The tin will instantly adhere t^ 
every spot that is clean. 

Tinning Iron in tJie Gold, — The chief point which requires 
attention in this matter is that the tinning of iron in the cold 
cannot succeed at all, unless the bath contains, in solution or 
suspension, an organic substance like starch or glucose, 
although no precise scientific explanation of this indispensi- 
ble condition has been hitherto given. To 100 litres of 
water are added 3 kilos, of rye meal ; this mixture is boiled 



Digitized by 



Google 



76 THE WOBKSHOP C50MPAKI0N. 

for half an hour, and next filtered through cloth ; to the 
rlear but thickish liquid are added 106 kilos, of pyrophos- 
p!iate of soda, 17 kilos, of protochloride of tin in crystals (so- 
called tin-salt), 67 kilos, of neutral protochloride of tin, 100 
to 120 grms. of sulphuric acid ; this liquid is placed in well- 
inade wooden troughs, and serves more especially for the 
tinning of iron and steel wire (previously polished) for the 
use of carding machines. When instead of the two sorts of 
tin just nam&, cyanide of silver and cyanide of potassium 
are taken, the iron is perfectly silvered. 

BrigJUening Iron. — A Bavarian serial contains a method of 
brightening iron recommended by Boden. The articles to 
be brightened are, when taken from the forge or the rolls, in 
the case of such articles as plates, wire, etc., placed in dilute 
BxQphuric acid (1 to 20), cleansing the articles, which are 
then washed clean with water and dried with sawdust. They 
are then dipped for a second or so in nitrous acid, washed 
carefully, dned in sawdust and rubbed clean. It is said that 
iron goods thus treated acquire a bright surface, having a 
white glance, without undergoing any of the usual polishing 
opei*ations. This is a process that those interested can easily 
test for themselves. Boden states that the action of the sul- 
phuric acid is increased by the addition of a little carbolic 
acid, but it is difficult to see what effect this can have, and it 
may very well be dispensed with. 

To Remove the Blue Color Imparted to Iron and Steel by ex- 
posure to Heat, — ^Rub lightly with a sponge or rag dipped in 
diluted sulphuric, nitnc, or hydrochloric acid. When the 
discoloration is removed, carefully wash the j^rticle, dry it 
by rubbing, warm it and give a coat of oil or it will rapidly 
rust. 

Ivory. 

Ivory is obtained from the tusk of the elephant, and 
although material nearly resembling it may be obtained from 
other animals, yet the true ivory stands unequalled as a ma- 
terial for ornamental turning and carving. It is not so brittle 
as bone, neither does it splinter so much when broken, and 
as it is entirely free "from the vessels or pores which permeate 
all bone, the finished articles have a much more solid and 
even appearance. Although distinctly fibrous it cannot be 
torn up in filaments like bone or divided into thin leaves. 



Digitized by 



Google 



THE WORKSHOP COMPANION. 77 

except by the saw. It is in all respects the most suitable 
Inaterial for ornamental turning, as it is capable of receiving 
the most delicate lines and of being cut in the most slender 
Jn'oportions. But while it is thus vahiable as a material for 
Ornamental work, it is useless for any article requiring ac- 
curacy in its dimensions— -such for example as the scales of 
draughtsmen and the graduated arcs of instruments for mea- 
suring angles. Owing to the great alterations which it sus- 
tains under slight atmospheric changes it cannot be relied 
upon, and has been condemned officially by the survey com- 
missioners of almost all countries. 

It is imagined by some that ivory may be softened so as to 
admit of being moulded like horn or tortoise shell. Its 
different analysis contradicts this expectation ; thick pieces 
suffer no change in boiling water, thin pieces become a little 
more flexible, and thin shavings give off their jelly, which sub- 
stance is occasionally prepared horn them. It is true that the 
caustic alkali will act upon ivory as well as upon most animal 
substances, yet it only does so by decomposing it. Ivory, 
when exposed to the alkalies, first becomes unctuous or saj^o- 
naceous on its outer surface, then soft, if in thin plates, and 
it may be ultimately dissolved provided the alkali be concen- 
trated ; but it does not in any such case resume its first con- 
dition. 

Working and Polishing Ivory, — ^As a material to be worked 
oy the mechanic, ivory stands midway between wood and 
brass, and is turned and cut by tools having more obtuse 
angles than those employed for wood, and yet sharper than 
those used for brass. It may be driven at a fair speed in the 
lathe, and is easily sawed by any saw having fine teeth. 

The tools used for cutting and turning ivory should have 
their edges very finely finished op an oil stone so that they 
may cut smoothly and cleanly. 

l\imed works with plain surfaces may in general be left so 
smooth from the tool as to require but very little polishing^ a 
point always aimed at with superior workmen by tlie employ- 
ment of sharp tools. In the polishing of turned works very 
fine glass paper or emery paper is first used, and it is rendered 
still finer and smoother by rubbing two pieces together face 
to face ; secondly, whiting and water as thick as cream is 
then applied on wash leather, linen, or cotton rag, which 
should be thin that the fingers may the more readily feel and 



Digitized by 



Google 



7b THE WORKSHOP COMPANION. 

avoid the keen fillets and edges of the ivory work, that would 
be rounded by excessive polishing ; thirdly, the work is 
washed with clean watcu', applied by the same or another 
rag ; fourthly, it is rubbed with a clean, dry cloth until all 
the moisture is absorbed, and, lastly, a very minute quantity 
of oil or tallow is put on the rag to give a gloss. 

Scarcely anv of the oil remains behind, and the apprehen- 
Bion of its being absorbed by the ivory and disposing it to 
turn yellow may be discarded ; indeed the quantity of oil 
used is quite insignificant, arid its main purpose is to keep 
the surface of the ivory slightly lubricated, so that the rag 
may not hang to it and wear i t into rings or groovy marks. 
Putty powder is sometimes used for i^olishing ivory work, 
but it is more expensive and scarcely l)etter suited than 
whiting, which is sufficiently hard for the purposa 

The polishing of irregular surfaces is genei'ally done with 
a moderately hard nail brush, supplied with whiting and 
water, and lightly applied in all directions, to penetrate every 
interstice ; after a period the work is brushed with plain 
water and a clean brush, to remove every vestige of the 
whiting. The ivory is dried i>y wiping and i)re8sing it with 
a clean linen or cotton rag, auil is afterwards allowed to dry 
in the air, or at a good distance from the tire ; when dry a 
gloss is given with a clean brush on which a minute drop of 
oil is first applied. 

It is l)etter to do too l^^fTp polishing at fii-st, so as to need 
a repetition of the proceed.,, either than by injudicious activity 
to round and obliterate all the delicate points and edges of 
the works, upon the preservation of which their beauty 
mainly depends. 

Bleaching and Cleaning Ivory. — In reply to the question. 
What means there are of bleaching ivory which has become 
discolored ? Holtzapffel, the great authority on such subjects, 
tells us that he regrets to be obliged to say that he is unac- 
quainted with any of value. It is recommended in various 
popular works to scrub the ivory with Trent sand and water, 
and similar gritty materials ; but these would only produce 
a sensible effect by the removal of the external surface of the 
material, which would be fatal to objects delicately carved by 
hand or with revolving cutting instruments applied to the 
lathe. 

It is a well known fact that ivoiy suffers the least chuigQ 



Digitized by 



Google 



THE WORKSHOP OOMPANIOK. 79 

of color when it is exposed to the light and closely covered 
with a glass shade. It assumes its most nearly white condi- 
tion when the oil with which it is naturally combined is re- 
cently evaporated ; and it is the custom in some thin works, 
Buch as the keys of pianofortes, to hasten this period, hy 
• placing them for a few hours in an oven heated in a very 
moderate degree, although the more immediate object is to 
cause the pieces to shrink before they are glued upon the 
wooden bodies of the keys. Some persons boil the transpa- 
rent ivory in pearl-ash and water to whiten it ; tliis appears 
to act by the superficial extraction of the oily matter as in 
bone, although it is very much better not to resort to the 
practice, which is principally employed to render that ivory 
which is partly opaque and partly transparent, of more nearly 
uniform appearance. It is more than proljable, however, 
that the discoloration of ivory is due to the oil which it con- 
tains or has absorbed, and which becomes yellow and rancid, 
and every eflfort should be made to prevent oily or greasy 
bodies from coming in contact with ivory. Thus the keys 
of a pianoforte should be kept clean by carefully washing 
from the fingers the natural grease which all skin gives out. 
When ivory keys become very yellow they may be consider- 
ably whitened by allowing a paste of whiting, slightly 
moistened with potash, to lie on them for twenty-four hours. 
The potash extracts the oil which is absorbed by the chalk 
and may be thus removed. 

It is a well known fact that most oils and resins may bo 
bleached by exposure to sunlight. It is by this means that 
opticians render Canada balsam clear and transparent. It 
has been found that pieces of apparatus made of ivory, such 
as rules, etc., which have become yellow by age, may bo 
bleached by dipping them in turpentine and exposing them 
to sunlight. 

The fumes of sulphur, chloride of lime, etc., though fre- 
quently recommended, are of no value as bleachers of ivory. 

Javelle Water. 

This name was derived from the town of Javelle, in France, 
where a manufactory sold a liquor which had the property 
of bleaching cloth by an immersion of some hours only. The 
following is the original recipe given by Gray in his ** Oper- 
Jtiive Chemist": 2^ lbs. common salt, 2 lbs of sxQphurio 



Digitized by 



Google 



80 THE WORKSHOP COMPANION. 

acid, and | lb. of black manganese are mixed in a retort and 
heated, and the gas which comes over is condensed in 2 
gallons of water in which 5 lbs. of potash have been dissolved. 
This liquor is diluted with twelve times its bulk of water. 

This process is available only by chemists, however. The 
following gives good results : Take 4 lbs. carbonate of soda, 
and 1 lb. chloride of lime ; put the soda into a kettle, add 1 
gallon of boiling water and boil for from 10 to 15 minutes ; 
then stir in the chloride of lime, breaking down all lumps 
with a wooden spatula or stirrer. Pour into lai'ge glass 
bottles ; when cold and settled it will be ready for use. 

This forms a very efficient bleaching liquid and one which 
it is not difficult to remove from the bleached fabric. Old 
and stained engravings and books, as well as linen and cotton 
goods that have become yellow with dirt and age, may be 
rendered snowy white by the ajiplication of this liquid 

Jewelry and Gilded Ware. 

Ordinary gold jewelry may be effectually cleansed by wash- 
ing with soap and warm water, rinsing in cold water and 
drying in warm boxwood sawdust. Plain, smooth surfaces 
may be rubbed with chamois leather charged either with 
rouge or prepared chalk, but the less rubbing the better. 

Silver is liable to tarnish by the action of sulphur, and 
where there is fine chased or engraved work the extreme 
delicacy of the lines may be injured by much rubbing. In 
such cases the articles may be cleaned by washing with a 
solution of hyposulphite of soda. Cyanide of potassium is 
a more powerful cleansing agent but is very poisonous. 

In cleaning gilded ware, different processes must be 
used for articles gilded by fire or by the galvanic process, 
and articles gilded by gold leaf, such as frames, etc. For 
cleaning articles gilded by the first-named methods, one part 
of borax is dissolved in sixteen parts of water. With this 
solution the article is carefully rubbed by means of a soft 
sponge or brush, then rinsed with water, and finally dried 
with a linen rag, or if small, such as a piece of jewelry, with 
boxwood sawdust. If at all convenient, the article is warmed 
previously to being rubbed, by which means the brilliancy 
of it-is greatly increased. In cleaning gilded frames of the 
last named order, pure water only must be employed, and the. 
rubbing off of the impurities must take place by means of a 



Digitized by 



Google 



THE WORKSHOP COMPANION.. tl 

very slight pite^aura Wares of imitation gilt are generally 
covered with f shellac or resin varnish, which would be dis- 
solved by the application of soap water, alkaline solutions, 
or spirits of wine. Were the varnish rubbed oflf, the exceed- 
ingly thin layer of gold or silver leaf beneath would also 
disappeai*. Jjo. our experience we have seen hundreds of once 
valuable but now worthless frames, they having become thus 
simply by the application of soap water. 

Lacquer. 

Lacquer is so called because it usually contains gum lac, 
either shellac or seed lac. Seed lac is the original form of 
the gum or resin ; after being purified it is moulded into tiiin 
sheets, like shell, and hence is called sheUac, Shellac is 
frequently bleached so as to become quite white, in which 
state it forms a colorless solution. Bleached shellac is never 
as strong as the gum in its natural condition, and unless it 
be fresh it neither dissolves well in alcohol nor does it 
preserve any metal to which it may be applied. 

There are many recipes for good lacquer, but the success 
of the operator depends quite as much upon skill as upon 
the particular recipe employed. The metal must be cleaned 
perfectly from grease and dirt, and in lacquering new work 
it is always best to lacquer as soon after polishing as possible. 
Old lacquer may be removed with a strong lye of potash or 
soda, after which the work should be well washed in water, 
dried in fine beech or boxwood sawdust and polished with 
whiting, applied with a soft brush. The condition of the 
work, as to cleanliness and polish, is perhaps the most im- 
portant point in lacquering. 

The metal should be heated and the lacquer applied evenly 
with a soft camel hair brush. A temperature of about that 
of boiling water wiU be found right. 

The solution of lac or varnish is colored to suit the require- 
ments or taste of the user. 

A good pale lacquer consists of three parts of Cape aloes 
and one of turmeric to one of simple lac varnish. A full 
yellow contains four of turmeric and one of annatte to one of 
lac varnish.. A gold lacquer, four of dragon*s-blood and one 
of turmeric to one of lac varnish. A red, thirty-two parts of 
annatto and eight of dragon's-blood to one of lac varnish. 

A great deal depends, also, upon the depth of color im- 



Digitized by 



Google 



82 THE WORKSSO? COMPANIOK. 

parted to the lacquer, and as tLis may require to be varied, 
a very good plan is to make up a small stock bottle, holding, 
say, half a pint, according to any good recipe, and add as 
much of it to the varnish as m^y be required for the desired 
tint. 

The following are a few favorite recipes : 

Beep Gold Lacquer. — ^Alcohol, ^ pint ; dragon's-blood, 1 
drachm ; seed lac, 1^ oz. ; turmeric, \ oz. Bhaie up well for 
a week, at intervals of, say, a couple of hours ; then allow to 
settle, and decant the clear lacquer ; and if at all dirty filter 
through a tuft of cotton wool. This lacquer may be diluted 
with a simple solution of shellac in alcohol and will then give 
a paler tint. 

BHght Gold Lacquer, — ^1. Turmeric, 1 oz..; saflS^on I oz. ; 
Spanish annatto, i oz. ; alcohol, 1 pint. Digest at a gentle 
heat for several days ; strain through coarse linen ; put the 
tincture in a bottle and add 3 oz. good seed lac coarsely 
powdered. Let it stand for several days, shaking occasion- 
ally. Allow to settle and use the clear liquid. 

2. Take 1 oz. annatto and 8 oz. alcohol. Mix in a bottle 
by themselves. Also mix separately 1 oz. gamboge and 8 oz. 
alcohol. With these mixtures color seed lac varnish to suit 
yourself. If it be too red add gamboge ; if too yellow add 
annatto ; if the color be too deep, add spirit. In this manner 
you may color brass of any desired tint. 

P(de Gold Lacquer. — ^Best pale shellac (picked pieces), 8 oz. ; 
sandarac, 2 oz. ; turmeric, 8 oz. ; annatto, 2 oz. ; dragon's-blood, 
i oz. ; alcohol, 1 gaUon. Mix, shake frequently till the gums 
are dissolved and the color extracted from the coloring 
matters and then allow to settle. 

Lacquer u^edhy A. Ross. — 4 oz. shellac and \ oz. gamboge 
are dissolved by agitation, without heat, in 24 oz. pure pyro- 
acetic ether. The solution is allowed to stand 'until tlie 
gummy matters, not taken up by the spirit, subside. The 
clear liquor is then decanted, and when required for use is 
mixed with 8 times its quantity of alcohol. In this case the 
pyro-acetic ether is employed for dissolving the shellac in 
order to prevent any but the purely resinous portions being 
taken up, which is almost certain to occur with ordinary 
alcohol ; but if the lacquer were made entirely with pyro- 
acetic ether, the latter would evaporate too rapidly to allow 
time for the lacquer to be equally applied. 



Digitized by 



Google 



THE WORKSHOP COMPANION. 83 

Lacquers suflfer a chemical change by heat and light, and 
must, therefore, be kept in a cool place and in dark vessels. 
The pans used should be either of glass or earthenware, and 
the brushes of camel's hair with no metal fittings. 

Laundry Gloss. 

Various recipes have been given for imparting a fine gloss 
to linen. Gum arable, white wax, spermaceti, etc., have all 
been highly recommended, and are, no doubt, useful to a 
certain extent, but the great secret seems to lie in the quality 
of the iron used and the skill of the laundress. If the iron is 
hard, close grained and finely polished, the work will be 
much easier. Laundresses always have a favorite smoothing 
iron with which they do most of their work, and many of 
them have the front edge of the iron rounded so that great 
pressure can be brought to bear on a very small spot instead 
of being spread over a space the size of the whole face of the 
iron. If smoothing irons have become rough and rusty it 
will pay to send them to a grinder to have them not only 
ground but huffed (see aritcle on Polishing Metals). The 
greatest care should be taken not to allow them to get 8potte<l 
with rust, and they should never be **brighteaed *' with 
coarse sand, ashes, emery, etc. If it is necessary to polL^h 
them, rub them on a board, or preferably a piece of leather 
charged with the finest flour of emery, obtained by washing, 
or better still, jeweller's rouge. 

Leaves— Skeleton. 

The following is a simple method of preparing skeleton 
leaves, and is decidedly preferable to the old and tedious 
method of maceration, as it is quite as efficient and not at all 
offensive. First dissolve four ounces of common washing 
soda in a quart of boiling water, then add two ounces of 
slaked quicklime and boil for about fifteen minutes. Allow 
the solution to cool : afterwards pour off all the clear liquor 
into a clean saucepan. When this liquor is at its boiling 
heat place the leaves carefully in the pan, and boil the whole 
together for an hour, adding from time to time enough waU^r 
to make up for the loss by evaporation. The epidermis and 
parenchyma of some leaves will more readily separate than 
others. A good test is to try the leaves after they have been 
gently boiling for an hour, and if the cellular matter does not 
aasily rub off betwixt the finger and thumb beneath coUl 



Digitized by 



Google 



U THE WOmtSHOP COMPANION. 

water, boil them again for a short time. When the fleshy 
matter is found to be sufficiently softened, rub them sepa- 
rately but very gently beneath cold water until the perfect 
skeleton is exposed. 

The skeletons, at first, are of a dirty white color ; to make 
them of a pure white, and therefore more beautiful, all that 
is necessary is to bleach them in a weak solution of chloride 
of lime — ^a large teaspoonful of chloride of lime to a quart of 
water ; if a few drops of vinegar are added to the solution it 
is all the better, for then the free chlorine is liberated. Do 
not allow them to remain too long in the bleaching liquor, 
or they will become too brittle, and cannot afterwards be 
handled without injury. About fifteen minates will be suf- 
ficient to make them white and clean looking. Dry the speci- 
mens in white blotting paper, beneath a gentle pressure. 
Simple leaves are the best for young beginners to experiment 
on ; the vine, poplar, beach and ivy leaves make excellent 
skeletons. Care must be exercised in the selection of leaves, 
as well as the period of the year and the state of the atmo- 
sphere when the specimens are collected ; otherwise, failure 
will be the result. The best months to gather the specimens 
are July and August. Never collect specimens in damp 
weather, and none but perfectly matured leaves ought to be 
selected. 

Lights— Signal and Colored. 

The following recipes are from the United States Ordnance 
Manual, and may be considered reliable. The composition 
for signal lights is packed in shallow vessels of large diame- 
ter so as to expose considerable surface. Where the burning 
surface is large, the light attains great intensity, but the ma- 
terial burns out rapidly. In arranging the size and shape of 
the case, therefore, regard must be had to the time the light 
is expected to burn and the brilliancy that is wanted. [See 
caution at end of this artideJ] 

Bengal LiglU. — ^Antimony, 2 ; sulphur, 4 ; mealed powder, 
4 ; nitrate of soda, 16. 

Bliie, — Black sulphuret of antimony, 1 ; sulphur, 2 ; pure 
nitre, 6. Grind to a very fine powder and mix thoroughly. 
See that the nitre is perfectly dry. This composition gives 
a bluish white light ; a deeper blue may be had by the addi- 
tion of a little finely pulverized zinc. 



Digitized by 



Google 



THE WORKSHOP COMPANION. 85 

t 

Red, — 1. Saltpetre, 5 ; sulphtir, 6 ; nitrate of strontia, 20 ; 
lampblack, 1. 

2. Nitrate of strontia, 20 ; chlorate of potassa, 8 ; Sulphnr, 
6 ; charcoal, 1. 

White. — Saltpetre, 16 ; stilphur, 8 ; mealed powder, 4. 
Grind to a very fine powder and mix well 

The following have been very highly recommended : 

OiHmson Fire. — Sulphide of antimony, 4 ; chlorate of po- 
tassa, 5 ; powdered roll brimstone, 13 ; dry nitrate of strontia^ 
40 parts. 

A very little charcoal added to the above makes it bnm 
quicker. 

Green Fire. — ^Fine charcoal, 3 ; sxQphur, 13 ; chlorate of 
potassa, 8 ; nitrate of baryta, 77. 

White. — 1. Nitrate of potassa (saltpetre), 24 ; sulphur 7 ; 
charcoal, 1. 

2. Nitre, 6 ; sulphur, 2 ; yellow sulphuret of arsenic, 1. 
[Note. — This light is a very brilliant one and a very pure 
white, but the fumes are highly poisonous. It should be 
used only in the open air and the wind should blow the 
vapors away from the spectators — not towards them.] 

3. Chlorate of potash, 10 ; nitre, 5 ; lycopodium, 3 ; char- 
coal % 

4. Metallic magnesium in the form of ribbon or wire. This 
is the best and most easily used. It may be purchased of 
most dealers in chemicals. A few inches of magnesium rib- 
bon coiled into a spiral (like a spiral spring) and ignited by 
means of a spirit lamp, or even by a litfle tuft of cotton 
soaked in alcohol and fired with a lucifer match, makes a 
light of surpassing brilliancy and power. It requires a slight 
knack to ignite the ribbon. Hold the end of it steadily in 
the order edge of the flame and it will soon take fire. The 
light given out by a small ribbon of magnesium is clearly 
visible at a distance of thirty mUes. 

Lights for Indoor lUumincUums. — ^Many of the above are 
unfit for indoor exhibitions owing to the amount of sul- 
phurous gas given off. For tableaux in churches, schools 
and private houses, the best light is undoubtedly magnesium 
or, where it can be had, the lime light (sometimes, though 
erroneously, called the calcium light). Both of these lights 
are very powerful, and any color may be obtained by the 
use of pieoes of differently colored glass. A very effective 



Digitized by 



Google 



86 THE WORKSHOP COMPANION 

arrangement consists of a dn box, which may be made out 
of one of those cases in which crackers are imported. Pro 
cure good-sized pieces of red and blue glass, the red being a 
soft, warm tint, such as will add a richness to the complex- 
ions of those upon whom the light is tlirown. Arrange one 
end of the tin box so that these glasses may be slipped over 
a large hole in it. The opposite end of the box should be 
highly polished so as to act as a reflector, and a hole should 
be cut in one side so as to allow of the introduction of the 
magnesium. 

Ijtt every case the burning matter should be so shaded 
that it may not be seen by the audience. If the direct light 
from the burning body meets the eyes of the spectators the 
reflected light from tide objects composing the tableau will 
have no effect. 

Where arrangements for lime or magnesium lights cannot 
be made, the following may be used. 

White. — Chlorate of potash, 12 ; nitre, 5 ; finely powdered 
loaf sugar, 4 ; lycopodium 2. 

Qreen. — ^Nitrate of baryta, shellac and chlorate of potassa, 
all finely powdered, equal parts by bulk. 

Red. — ^Nitrate of strontia, shellac and chlorate of potassa, 
all finely powdered, equal parts by bulk. 

The brilliancy of these fires will depend largely upon the 
thoroughness with which the materials are finely powdered 
and mixed. [See caution at end of this article.'^ 

Braunschweizer recommends the followmg formulae as 
giving excellent results, tiie lights being good without pro- 
ducing injurious fumes : 

Red. — ^Nitrate of strontia, 9 ; shellac, 3 ; chlorate of pot- 
assa, 1^. 

Gfreen. — ^Nitrate of baryta, 9 ; shellac, 3 ; chlorate of pot- 
assa, 1^. 

"Blue. — Ammoniacal sulphate of copper, 8; chlorate of 
potassa, 6; shellac, 1. 

The Pharmajdst gives the following formula for "Red 
Fire," which will not evolve sulphurous acid during com- 
bustion : nitrate of strontia, 1 lb. ; chlorate of potassa, i lb. ; 
shellac, i lb. 

These ingrediein<3 must be thoroughly dried, powdered 
separately, and carefully mixed by gentle stirring. 

Ghosts, Demons, Spectres and Murderers, — ^To give a ghaatly 



THE WOBKSHOP COMPANION. ^1 

hue to the faces of the actors, the best light is that produced 
by some salt of soda, common salt being very good. We 
have succeeded well in this way : A piece of wire gauze such 
as ash-sifters are made of, and about a foot square, was sup" 
ported at a height of about a foot from the floor, which was 
protected by a sheet of iron. On the wii*e gauze were laid 
twenty-five wads of cotton waste which had been soaked in a 
Solution of common salt, dried and dipped in alcohol just 
before being laid on the wire. When these were ignited we 
had twenty-five powerful flames all tinged with sodium and 
burning freely, as the air rose readily among them through 
the wire grating. Such a flame produces quite a powerful 
light and gives a death-like appearance to even the most 
rosy-cheeked girl. 

The following give a strong light and produce a most 
ghastly effect: 

1. Nitrate of soda, 10 ; chlorate of potash, 10 ; sulphide of 
antimony, 3 ; shellac, 4. The materials must be warm and 
dry, and as the nitrate of soda attracts moisture rapidly, it 
must be well dried, then finely powdered as quickly as pos- 
sible and kept in well-corked bottles. As this gives off a 
good deal of sulphurous fumes, the folloAving may be pre- 
ferred where the ventilation is not good : 

2. Nitrate of soda, 10 ; chlorate of x^otassa, 15 ; white 
sugar finely powdered, 5 ; lycopodium, 2. 

CAUTION. 

In using chlorate of potassa the greatest care is necessary. 
It may be powdered and otherwise handled safely whon 
alone, but when combustible matter of any kind is added to 
it, the mixture becomes higlily explosive and must be very 
gently handled. It must therefore be powdered separate/}/ 
and only mixed with the other ingredients after they have 
been powdered. The mixing should be done on a large sheet 
of paper, very gently, but very thoroughly, with a thin, 
broad-bhkded knife. 

Mixtures of chlorate of potash with sulphur, sulphurets, 
and especially phosphorous, are liable to explode spontane- 
ously t^ter a time, and should never be kept on hand. They 
should be made as wanted. 

Flowers of sulphur are very liable to contain a traue of 
BulphurLo or sulphurous acid, which, acting upon chlorate of 



Digitized by 



Google 



88 THE WOKKSHOP COMPANION. 

potash causes spontaneous ignition* This may be obviated 
by pouring a few drops of liquid ammonia on the sulphur, 
mixing it up thoroughly and allowing it to stand for some 
time. A safe way also is to use powdered roll brimstone 
instead of flowers of sulphur. 

Phosphorous lAghJt, — One of the most brilliant lights known 
is produced by burning phosphorous in oxygen. The appa- 
ratus usually employed for this purpose is bulky and expen- 
sive, but the following is a very simple method of producing 
a very intense light by the combustion of phosphorous : 
Take an amount of nitre proportional to the desired intensity 
and duration of the light required, dry it thoroughly, powder 
it and pack it solidly in an earthen vessel, leaving a small 
cup-like hollow in its upper surface. In this hollow place a 
piece of phosphorous which has been carefully dried with 
soft paper or rags and set it on fire. As the phosphorous 
burns, the nitre melts, decomposes and furnishes it with pure 
oxygen, and the resulting light is very brilliant. 

Note. — ^In handling phosphorous be very careful. Do not 
touch it with the hands or ruh it Avith the article used to 
dry it, as it takes fire very easily, and the burns produced by 
it are very severe. It should always be cut under water. 

Photographic Light. — A light of intense photographic 
power is produced by burning bisulphide of carbon in an 
argand lamp and passing a stream of nitric oxide through the 
centre of the flame Nitric oxide is easily produced as 
wanted by allowing nitric acid to act on scraps of copper. 

The following specific dir?<*.tions will enable the reader to 
produce this light in a less simple but more ejffective manner : 
A quart bottle with a somewhat large mouth, has a cork 
with two openings. Through one of these a tube passes to 
near the bottom of the bottle ; through the second a large 
tube packed with iron scale issues. Fragments of pumice 
till the bottle, and on these carbon disulphide is poured. A 
current of nitric oxide gas, prepared by Deville's method — 
by the action of nitric and sulphuric acids on metallic iron 
contained in a self-regulating reservoir — ^is passed through 
the bottle, where it takes up the vapor of the disulphide. It 
is then led through the safety-tube, packed with iron-scale, to 
a gas burner of the required capacity Excellent i)hoto- 
graphs have been taken in five seconcfe with this light, the 
object being six feet distant. In photographic power th« 



Digitized by 



Google 



THE WORI iHOP COMPANION. 80 

light is asserted to be superior to the magnesium or calcium 
light, and even to surpass the electric light itself. The 
products of combustion are noxious and must be gotten 
rid of. 

Chatham Light. — This is a most intense flash-light used for 
military signals. Three parts finely powdered resin are 
mixed with one part magnesium dust, and blown by means 
of a tube through the flame of a spirit lamp. The flame should 
be large so as to insure the ignition of all the dust. The dis- 
tance at w^hich such a flame can be seen is extraordinary. 

Some years ago the author devised a method of producing a 
light of marvellous brilliancy by the use of magnesium 
powder. A rude argand spirit lamp was constructed in such 
a way that the central tube could be connected in an air-tight 
fashion with a reservoir of oxygen. A small stopcock, with 
the hole of the plug closed at one side so as to leave a cup 
instead of a hole, was fitted into the tube leading from the 
oxygen reservoir to the lamp. When turned upward this 
cup wa^ easily filled with magnesium powder, and when 
turned down it of course dropped its charge into the stream 
of oxygen, which carried it at once to the lamp, there to be 
consumed in a flash of extraordinary brilliancy. 

Looking Glass. {See Mirrors,) 

Lubricators. 

In selecting a lubricator for any rubbing surfaces, care must 
be taken to adapt the character of the lubricating material to 
the nature of the rubbing surfaces and the weight which they 
have to sustain. A fine, thin oil is useless for heavy bearings, 
and a hard, stiff soap, which would be excellent for such 
bearings, would be a poor article for a very light piece of 
machinery. In the case of heavy bearings, such as railway 
<?,xles, when they once begin to heat and cut, it will be found 
impossible to prevent heating by the mere application of oiL 
The surfaces of the metal must be worked over either by 
grinding or the turning tool. Thus, when journals heat at 
sea, the usual custom is to use sulphur, black-lead, or water ; 
but the relief they afford is only temporary. The following 
is a method that gives permanent relief : When you find the 
journals getting hot, slack back the nuts on the cap from 
pae-quart^r to pue-third of a turn, and supply the jouni^ 

_llzed by Google 



90 THE WOEKSKOP COMPANION. 

freely with dust procured by rubbing two Bath bricks to- 
gether, mixed in oil to a consistency a little thinner than 
cream. After a short time begin cautiously to set up on the 
nuts ; and before finally bringing the nuts to their oiiginal 
j)Osition, give a copious supply of oil alone to wash out the 
j<3umal ; then bring the nuts into position, and you will have 
no further trouble. This plan has also been tried on railway 
journals, and it has been found that a handful of clay or 
gravel has effected that which gallons of oil and water could 
not do. 

In addition to the usual oils and grease the following lu- 
bricators deserve attention : ^ 

1. Plumbago. — ^This material liT gradually coming into use, 
and when properly selected and applied it never fails to give 
satisfactory restdts. It may be used on the heaviest planers 
and ocean steamers, or on the lightest watchwork. WIiqu 
applied to delicate machinery the surfaces should be very 
lightly coated with the plumbago by means of a brush. In 
this way all danger of grit is avoided. Plumbago seems to 
l)e specially adapted to diminish the friction between porous 
sui*faces, such as wood and cast iron. For the cast iron beds 
of heavy planers it is a specific. 

2. A7iti'Attrition, — Mix 4 lbs. tallow or soap with 1 lb. 
finely ground plumbago. The best lubricator for wood 
working on wood. Excellent for wooden screws where great 
power is required. 

3. Fine Lubricating OiL — ^Put fine olive oil in a bottle with 
scrapings of lead and expose it to the sun for a few weeks. 
Pour off the clear oil for use. Another method is to free25e 
fine olive oil, strain out the liquid portion and i^reserve for use. 

Booth's Axle Greasie. — Dissolve i lb. washing soda in 1 
gallon water and add 3 lbs. tallow and 6 lbs. palm oil. Heat 
to 210' Fahr., and keep const^mtly stirring until cooled 
to 60^ or 70''. 

Marblep 

Marble is a compact carbonate of lime which varies in color, 
some specimens being pure white, others perfectly black, 
while others are green, red, veined, mottled, etc. The famous 
Mexican onyx, so-called, is also a carbonate of lime, and not- 
withstanding its hardness and beauty is liable to injury frpffl 
the sf^i^e pauses tliat ftff^ct ordinary marbl©, " 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



THE WORKSHOP COMPANION. 91 

Marble is easily dissolved, with escape of carbonic acid 
gas, by the mineral acids, sulphuric, nitric, hydrochloric, 
etc., and it is also acted upon, though more slowly by vinegar, 
the acids of fruit, etc. It is also soluble in water containing 
an excess of carbonic acid, and therefore dissolves rapidly in 
the ordinary *' soda " water that is so generally sold as a 
beverage, for this fluid, in its pure state, consists solely of 
water holding a large amount of carbonic acid in solution. 
Consequently bottles and glasses of this liquid should not be 
placed where there is any danger of spilling it on mantel 
pieces, table '^v>ps, etc., as it will infallibly destroy the ex- 
quisite polish upon which the beauty of such articles of 
furniture depends. 

Finely carved articles of marble, when exposed to the rain 
of our northern climates, are apt to suffer corrosion, and the 
delicate tracery of the sculptor is soon lost. Therefore, 
while marble answered very well in the comparatively dry 
climates of Greece and Egypt, itisunsuited for statues, etc., 
exposed to the open air, in England and America, the rainfall 
in these countries being very great, and the moisture heavily 
charged with carbonic and sulphurous acids. 

In cleaning marble ornaments, etc., great care must be ex- 
ercised to use nothing corrosive like acids, chlorides, or 
metallic salts, such as are usually recommended for removing 
stains of inks and dyes from wood and textile fabrics. When 
marble has been stained by ink or vegetable coloring matter, 
the only way to remove it is to apply warm water abundantly 
and for a long time. If the marble is very compact, and the 
stain consequently quite superficial, the article may be 
scraped and repolished, but of course this is applicable only 
to objects which have plane surfaces, or those with simple 
curves. Elaborately carved or sculptured objects could not 
be so treated. 

Greasy stains may be removed by covering them with a 
paste of chalk and potash or soda. The alkali will convert 
the grease into soap, which will be gradually absorbed by the 
chalk and thus removed. In such cases, however, the stains, 
especially if old, may require a long time and several repeti- 
tions of the process. Alkalies (potash, soda and ammonia) 
may be applied to marble without injuring it, and any stains 
which they can remove may be taken out by their means. 

JJarble i» e^^ily worked either on the bench or in the latho 



Digitized by 



Google 



92 THE WORKSHOP COMPANION. 

In the latter case, however, great care mnst be taken to avoid 
anything like a heavy cut, since marble is so rigid and brittle 
that if the cut be heavy the article is apt to be broken. The 
only tool that can be used is a steel point, tempered to a 
straw color. The tool requires frequent grinding, and when 
it gets broad it must be forged over again, as a S&t tool will 
not turn marble at all. 

For working and finishing marble on the bench the follow- 
ing is the process : After the marble is sawn into slab, the 
first operation is to grind it down with a flat coarse sandstone 
and water, or with an iron plate, fed with fine sand and water, 
until all the marks of the saw are perfectly removed ; 
secondly, a fine sandstone is used with water until the 
marks made by the first stone are removed; thirdly, a 
finer sandstone is applied to work out the marks of the 
former ; fourthly, pumice stone with water, and fifthly, snake 
stone is used, and this last finishes what is called the 



Next comes the polishing, which is principally performed 
with rollers of woolen cloth or list made to the size of about 
three inches diameter. As the sixth process, a rubber is 
charged with flour emery and a moderate degree of moisture ; 
this rubber is worked uniformly over every part until the 
marble acquires a kind of greasy polish; seventhly, the work 
is completed with a similar roll of cloth charged with putty 
powder and water. Some prefer, as the polisher, an old 
cotton stocking not made into a rubber, and in some few of the 
more delicate works crocus is used intermediately between 
the emery and the putty powder. It is necessary to wash 
the marble after each operation, so that not a particle of the 
previous polishing material may remaiQ, otherwise the work 
will be scratched. 

The dull parts of sculpture are finished in four different 
manners, or rather the complete process of smoothing is dis- 
continued at various stages so as to form four gradations, 
which may be described as follows : 

First. — The marble is sometimes left from the long and 
very slender statuary's chisel, the reverse end of which is 
formed with a sharp circular edge or ridge, just like a hollow 
centre, in order that the metal hammer, which is of soft iron, 
tin or zinc, may be slightly indented by the chisel, so as to 
^void its glancing off ; the chisel marks leave the sur^^ 



Digitized by 



Google 



THE WORKSHOP COMPANION. 93 

somewhat rongh and matted, intermediate between the 
granular and crystalline character. 

Secondly, — ^For surfaces somewhat smoother, rasps are used 
to remove the ridges left by the chisel ; the rasps leave a 
striated or lined effect suitable for draperies, and which is 
made more or less regular according to the uniformity of the 
strokes, or the reverse. 

Thirdly, — ^Files are employed for still smoother surfaces of 
the same character ; and it is to be observed that the files 
and rasps are generally curved at the ends, to adapt them to 
the curvilinear forms of the sculpture. 

Fourthly. — ^For the smoothest of the dull or unpolished 
surfaces, the faint marks left by the file are rubbed out with 
Trent sand or silver sand and water, applied by means of a 
stick of deal cut to a point, and rubbed all over the work in 
little irregular circles, as a child would scribble on a slate, 
and if the end of the stick is covered with two or three 
thicknesses of cloth the marble receives a still rounder or 
softer effect than from the naked stick, for which the cabbage 
wood or partridge wood is sometimes used, and the end of the 
stick is slightly bruised, so that the fibres of the wood may 
assume the character of the stiff brush, known by artists as a 
scrub. 

Mr. Thomas Smith tells us that he has successfully copied 
the minute roughness or granulation of the skin, by a kind of 
etching which he was induced to try, by imagining that he 
could trace such a process to have been used in some of the 
most perfect of the ancient marbles that had not been exposed 
to the open air. The work having been smoothed with sand, 
as above, he takes a hard, stubby brush and therewith dots 
the marble with muriatic acid, and which quickly, yet par- 
tially, dissolves the surface. The strength of the acid, which 
must not be excessive, is tested upon a piece of waste marble; 
the brush is hastily dipped in the acid, applied to the work, 
quickly rinsed in water, and then used for removing the acid 
from the marble. It is obvious the process calls for a certain 
admixture of dexterity and boldness, and sometimes requires 
sevei-al repetitions, the process occlipying only a few minutes 
each time. 

Fifthly. — ^The bright parts of sculpture. Few of the works 
in sculpture are polished, and such as are, are required in the 
first instance to pass through the four stages already explained 



Digitized by 



Google 



94 THE WORKSHOP COMPANION. 

for prodneing the smooth but dull surface ; after which, 
slender square pieces of the second gritstone and of snake- 
stone are used with water as a pencil, and then fine emery 
and putty powder on sticks of wood ; but the work is exceed- 
ingly tedious, and requires very great care, that the artistical 
character of the work, and any keen edges that may be re- 
quired are not lost in the polishing. 

Metals— Polishing. 

Metals are polished either by burnishing or buffing. The 
process ot burnishing consists in rubbing down all the minute 
roughnesses by means of a highly polished steel or agate 
tool — none of the metal being removed. 

The action of the burnisher appears to depend upon two 
circumstances ; first, that the harder the material to be 
polished the gi'eater lustre it will receive ; the burnisher is, 
therefore, commonly made of hardened steely which exceeds in 
hardness nearly every metallic body. And secondly, its 
action depends on the intimacy of the contact betwixt the 
burnisher and the work ; and the pressure of the brightened 
burnisher being, in reality, from its rounded or elliptical 
section, exerted upon only one mathematical line or point of 
the work at a time, it acts with great pressure and in a man- 
ner distinctly analogous to the steel die used in making coin; 
in which latter case the dull but smooth blank becomes in- 
stantly the bright and lustrous coin, in virtue of the intimate 
contact produced in the coining press between the entire 
surface of the blank and that of the highly polished die. 

It by no means follows, however, that the burnisher will 
produce highly finished surfaces, unless thev have been pre- 
viously rendered smooth, and proper for tlie application of 
this instrument, as a rough surface, having any file marks or 
scratches, will exliibit the original defects, notwithstanding 
that they may be glossed over with the burnisher which 
follows every irregularity ; and excessive pressure, which 
might be expected to correct the evil as in coining, only fills 
the work with furrows, or produces an irregular indented 
surface, which by workmen is said to he full ^ uUers, 

Therefore, the greater the degree of excellence that is re- 
quired in burnished works, the more carefully should they 
be smoothed before the application of the burnisher, and this 
tool sUoul4 ik9 ]S?e clep.»e4 oii ^ biiff stick with crocus ioi' 



Digitized by 



Google 



THE WORKSHOP COMPANION. 96 

mediately before use ; and it should in general be applied 
with the least degree of friction that will suffice. Cutlers 
mostly consider that burnishers for steel are best rubbed on 
a buff stick with the finest flour emery ; for silver, however, 
they polish the burnisher with crocus as usual. Most of the 
metals, previously to their being burnished, are rubbed with 
oil to lessen the risk of tearing or scratching them, but for 
gold and silver the burnisher is commonly used dry, unless 
soap and water or skimmed milk are employed ; and for 
brass furniture, beer or water, with or without a little vinegar, 
is preferred for lubricating the burnisher. 

Buffing is performed by rubbing the metal with soft leather, 
which has been charged with verv fine polishing powder. 
The rubbing is sometimes done by hand, but more frequently 
the buff is made into a wheel which revolves rapidly in a 
lathe and the work is held against it. 

The polishing powder that is selected must be chosen with 
8X>ecial reference to the metal that is to be buffed. Thus, for 
steel and brass the best polishing powder is crocus or rouge, 
which may be purchased of any dealer in tools, or may be 
made by exposing very clean and pure ciystals of sulphate of 
iron to heat, according to the directions given hereafter under 
the head of Polishing Powders. The hardest part of the 
rouge must be selected, and great care must be taken to have 
it clean and free from particles of dust and sand, which would 
inevitably scratch the article to be polished and render it 
necessary to again repeat all the previous processes of filing, 
grinding, etc. 

Soft metals like gold and silver may be polished with com- 
l^aratively soft powders, such as prepared chalk or putty 
powder (oxide of tin). 

When metak are to be polished in the lathe the process is 
very simple. After being turned or filed smooth the article 
is still further polished by means of fine emery and oil, ap- 
plied with a stick, and in the case of rods or cylindera, a sort of 
clamp is used so that great pressure can be brought to bear 
on the part to be pcSished. The work must be examined 
from time to time to see that aU parts are brought up equally 
to the greatest smoothness and freedom from scratches, and 
as fast as this occurs polishing powder of finer and finer 
quality is used, until the required finish is attained. 

lo poliehiixg met^ or anjr other li«^r4 ^ubstaacei? bjr 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



96 THE WORKSHOP COMPANION. 

abrasion, the great point is to bring the whole surface tip 
equally. A single scratch will destroy the appearance of the 
finest work, and it cannot be removed except by going back 
to the stage to which it corresponds, and beginning again 
from that point. Thus, if in working with a smooth file we 
make a scratch as deep as the cut of a bastard file, it is of 
no use to try and remove this scratch with the smooth file, 
we must go back, and taking a bastard file make the surface 
as even as possible with it, and afterwards work forward 
through fine files and polishing powders. 

Mirrors- 

Ajs it is frequently convenient to be able to silver a piece of 
glass for a special purpose, we quote from Faraday's work on 
Chemical Manipulation; the following directions for perform- 
ing this operation : 

A piece of clean, smooth tinfoil, free from holes, is to be 
cut to the same size as the glass and laid upon a couple of 
sheets of filtering or blotting paper folded into quarters. A 
little mercury is to be placed on the foil, and rubbed over it 
with a hare*s foot, or with a ball of cotton slightly greased 
with tallow, until the whole of the upper surface of the leaf 
be amalgamated and bright. More mercury is then to be 
added, until the quantity is such as to float over the tinfoil. 
A piece of clean writing paper, with smooth edges, is to be 
laid upon the mercury, and then the glass surface, previously 
well cleaned, is to be applied to the paper. The paper is to 
be drawn out from between the mercury and the glass, while 
a slight but steady pressure is to be applied to the latter. 
As the paper recedes it can-ies all air and dirt with it from 
between the glass and the metal, which come into perfect 
contact. 

The mirror is now made, and may be used for an experi- 
ment ; but there is still much more mercury present than is 
required to make the definite and hard amalgam of tin con- 
stituting the usual reflecting surface. If it be desired to re- 
move this excess, the newly-formed mirror must be put under 
the pressure of a flat board, in a slightly-inclined position, 
and loaded with weights. 

The success of this operation will be found to depend 
chiefly upon the care exercised in cleaning the glass. 

SUvmng Glass Mh^ors^or Optical Furpos^, — This i§ b^t 



Digitized by 



Google 



THE WORKSHOP COMPANION. 97 

feifected by depositing pnre silver on the glass. The light 
reflected from a mirror made thus has somewhat of a yellowish 
tinge, but photometric experiments show that from 25 to 30 
per cent, more light is reflected than from the old mercurial 
mirrors. 

Where ammonium aldehyde can be obtained, there is no 
doubt that this is the best and most economical process, 
whether used on a large or a small scale. But those who 
have not had considerable experience in the laboratory can- 
not always prepare this compound. 

The next bast process is based upon the reduction of 
metallic silver from its ammoniacal solution by salts of tartar. 
After a trial of several formulae of this kind, all of them more 
or less simple, as well as eliicacious, the following has been 
found to yield the best results in the shortest time. 

Silvering Solution. — In 1 ounce of distilled or pure rain 
water, dissolve 48 grains of crystalized nitrate of sQver. 
Precipitate by adding strongest water of ammonia, and con- 
tinue to add the ammonia drop by drop, stirring the solution 
with a glass rod, until the brown precipitate is nearly, but 
not quite redissolved. Filter, and add distilled water to 
make 12 fluid drachms. 

Keducing Solution.— ^Dissolve in 1 ounce of distilled or 
very clean rain water, 12 grains of potassium and sodium 
tartrate (Rochelle or Seignette salts). Boil, in a flask, and 
while boiling add 2 grains crystalized nitrate of silver dis- 
solved in 1 drachm of water. Continue the boiling five or 
six minutes. Let cool, filter, and add distilled water to make 
12 fluid drachms. 

To Silver. — ^Provision must be made for supporting the 
glass in a perfectly horizontal position at the surface of the 
liquid. Tliis is best done by cementing to the face of the 
mirror three nice hooks by which it may be hung from a 
temporary framework — easily made out of a few sticks. 

The glass to be silvered must be cleansed by immersing 
it in strong nitric acid, washing in liquor potassse, and thor- 
oughly rinsing with distilled water. If the glass has had 
mercurial amalgam on it, it will probably be necessary to 
clean the back with rouge. On having this surface per- 
fectly, chemically clean, depends in a great measure the suc- 
cess of the operation. 

Having arranged the contrivance for suspending the glass 



Digitized by 



Google 



«8 THE WORKSHOP C0MPANI05J. 

8o that it may be at exactly tlio right height in the vessel 
that is to receive the solution, remove this vessel and pour 
into it enough of equal quantities of the two solutions to fill 
it exactly to the previously ascertained level. Stir the solu- 
tions so that they will become thoroughly mixed, and replace 
the glass to be silvered, taking great care that the surface to 
be silvered shall come in contact with the silvering fluid ex- 
actly at all points. The glass plate should be rinsed carefully 
before replacing, and should be put in while wet. Great care 
should be taken that no air bubbles remain on the surface of 
the solution, or between it and the surface to be sUvered. 

Now set the vessel in the sun for a few minutes, if the 
weather be warm, or by the fire, if it be cold, as a tempera- 
ture of 45° to 50° C. (113° to 122° Fah.) is most conducive 
to the rapid deposition of a brilliant, firm and even film of 
silver. The fluid in the sunlight soon becomes inky black, 
gradually clearing as the silver is reduced, until when ex- 
hausted it is perfectly clear. The mirror should be removed 
before this point is reached, as a process of bleaching sets 
up if left after the fluid is exhausted. From 20 to 80 minutes, 
according to the weather, purity of chemicals, etc., is re- 
quired for the entire process. 

When the min'or is removed from the bath, it should bo 
carefully rinsed with distilled water from the wash bottle, 
and laid on its edge on blotting paper ko dnr. When per- 
fectly dry, the back should be varnished with some elastio 
varnish and allowed to dry. The wires and cement can now 
be removed from the face, and the glass cleaned with a little 
fledget of cotton and a minute drop of nitric acid, taking 
great care that the acid does not get to the edges or under 
the varnish. Rinse, dry and the mirror is finished. 

Silver Amalgam for MvTors. — The great objections to 
mirrors coated with pure silver are the yellow character of 
the reflected light, and the fact that such mirrors are apt to 
be affected by sulphur. M. Lenoir has invented a process 
which is said to avoid these difficulties. The glass is first 
sHvered by means of tartaric acid and ammoniacal nitrate of 
silver, or by the process described in the preceding section, 
and is then exposed to the action of a weak solution of double 
cyanide of mercury and potassium. When the mercurial 
solution has spread uniformly over the surface, fine zinc dust 
is powdered over it, which promptly reduces the quicksilver. 



Digitized by 



Google 



THE WORKSHOP COMPANION. 99 

And permits it to form a white and brilliant silver amalgam, 
adhering strongly to the glfiiss, and which is affirmed to be 
free from the yellowish tint of ordinary silvered glass, and 
not easily affected by sulphurous emanations. 

Care of Lookhig Ulasses. — ^Wlien looking glasses are ex- 
posed to the direct rays of the sun or to very strong heat 
from a fire the amalgam is apt to crystallize anipL the mirror 
loses its brilliancy. If a mirror is placed where tiie rays of 
the sun can strike it, it should be covered in that part of the 
day during which it is exposed. 

The best method of cleaning looking glasses is as follows : 
Take a newspaper, fold it small, dip it into a basin of clean 
cold water. When thoroughlv wet squeeze it out as you do 
a sponge ; then rub it pretty hard all over the surface of the 
glass, talking care that it is not so wet as to run down in 
streams ; in fact, the paper must only be completely moist- 
ened or dampened all through. Let it.restafew minutes, 
then go over the glass with a piece of fresh newspaper till it 
looks clear and bright. The insides of windows may be 
cleaned in the same way; also spectacle-glasses, lamp-glasses, 
etc. White paper that has not been printed on is better; 
but in the absence of that, a very old newspaper, on which 
the ink has become thoroughly dried, should be used. 
Writing paper will not answer. 

Nickel. 

This is by far the most valuable metal that has been 
brought into notice during the past few years. It has been 
long familiar to chemists, and as a component of German 
silver, electrum, and similar alloys, it has been in common 
use, but as an unalloyed coating for other metals it has only 
been employed for about ten years. 

It is hard, not easily corroded by acids, and, unlike silver, 
it is entirely unaffected by sulphur. In addition to these 
valuable qualities it has one of special importance in some 
cases, and that is the ease with which a nickel surface slides 
over any other smooth body. Hence, for the sliding parts of 
telescopes, microscopes, etc., it has come into very general 
use, and it is not improbable that it will prove of great value 
in the case of slide valves, pistons, etc. 

Nickel is almost always applied as a coating by the electro- 
plating process, for instructions in which ai-t we must refer 



Digitized by 



Google 



100 THE WORKSHOP COMPANION. 

onr reaaers to any good work on the art of electro-metal- 
lurgy. 

A foreign journal gives the following directions for nickel 
plating without a battery : To a solution of five to ten per 
cent, of chloride of zinc, as pure as possible, add sufficient 
sulphate of nickel to produce a strong green color, and bring 
to boiling in a porcelain vessel. The piece to be plated, 
which must be perfectly bright and free from grease, is in- 
troduced so that it touches the vessel as little as possible. 
Ebullition is continued from 30 to 60 minutes, water being 
added from time to time to replace that evaporated. During 
ebullition nickel is precipitated in the form of a white and . 
brilliant coating. The boiling can be continued for hours 
without sensibly increasing the thickness of this coating. 
As soon as the object appears to be plated it is washed in 
water containing a little chalk in suspension, and then care- 
fully dried. This coating may be scoured with chalk, and is 
very adherent. The chloride of zinc and also the suli)hate of 
nickel used must be free from metals precii)itable by iron. 
If during the precipitation the liquor becomes colorless, 
sulphate of nickel should be added. The spent liquor may be 
used again by exposing to the air until the contained iron is 
precipitated, filtering and adding the zinc and nickel salts 
as above. Cobalt also may be deposited in the same manner. 

Noise— Prevention of. 

To those who carry on any operations requiring much ham- 
mering or pounding, a simple means of deadening the noise 
of their work is a great relief. Several metiiods have been 
suggested, but the best are probablv these : 

1. Rubber cushions under the legs of the work-bench. 
CJiamber*s Journal describes a factory where the hammering 
of fiftv coppersmiths was scarcely audible in the room below, 
their benches having under each leg a rubber cushion. 

2. Kegs of sand or sawdust applied in the same way. A 
few inches of. sand or sawdust is first poured into each keg ; 
on this is laid a board or block upon which the leg reste, 
and round the leg and block is poured fine dry sand or saw- 
dust. Not only all noise, but all vibration and shock, is 
prevented ; and an ordinary anvil, so mounted, may be used 
in a dwelling house without annoying the inhabitants. To 
amateurs, whose workshops ore almost always located in 



Digitized by 



Google 



THE WORKSHOP CX)MiPAl^pN: . r ^, ; my: 

dwelling houses, tMs deyice affords a cheap and simple relie{ 
from a very great annoyance. 

Painting Bright Metals. 

When paint is applied to bright metals like tin or zinc, it 
is very apt to peel off. This difficulty is greatly lessened if 
the metal be hot when the paint is applied, but in many 
cases this cannot be done. In such cases the surface of the 
metal should be corroded, for which purpose a solution of 
sulphate of copper, acidulated with nitric acid answers well. 
The metal should be washed with the solution, allowed to 
stand a couple of hours, and then washed with clean water 
and dried. 

Fainting the Hours on Metal Dials. — ^The black coloring 
matter is the soot obtained by holding a clean copper or 
sheet metal plate over the flame of an oil or petroleum lamp 
(a glowing tool serves the purpose very well). As soon as a 
sufficient deposit is produced it is collected on a piece of 
glass, care being taken not to mix any foreign substance with 
it. A few drops of essence of lavender are then poured on 
the soot and the mixture pounded with a spatula. This done, 
just sufficient copal varnish is added to give the composition 
a proper thickness, so as to prevent it spreading when ap- 
plied. The varnish thus prepared is put on by means of a 
very fine brush. To secure brilliancy the dial is drieJL at a 
slow heat, by passing it lightly over a spirit flame, the reverse 
side of the dial being, of course, the only part exposed to the 
flame. This composition must be made in quantities large 
enough for. present use only, as it dries very rapidly and 
cannot be utilized -afterwards. To secure good results this 
process requires some experience, which can only be obtained 
by careful experiments. The painting especially requires a 
certain aptitude and lightness of hand, which may, however, 
soon be attained by strict attention. 

This process, which gives very excellent results, is evi- 
dently applicable to a great variety of purposes. 

Paper. 

There are so many purposes to which paper is applied that 
a small volume might be filled with a description of them. 
The following are those which will probably prove most 
useful to the amateur : 

Adhesive Paper, — ^Paper in sheets, half of which are 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



• • • 
. •• • • 



'• :ilte? ;%.• '; ; . *Brr{\ir()&KSHOP COMPANlOir. 

gummed on both sides, and the other half on one side, and 
divided into strips and squares of different sizes by perfora- 
tions, like sheets of postage stamps, are very convenient in 
many ways — ^the doubly-gummed answering for fixing draw- 
ings in books, labels on glass, etc. It is stated that the 
mixture by which it is coated is prepared by dissolving six 
parts of glue, previously soaked for a day in cold water, two 
parts of sugar, and three parts of gum arabic, in twenty-four 
parts of water, by the aid of heat. 

Barometer Paper, — This is paper impregnated with a so- 
called sympathetic ink, which alters its color by a change of 
temperature. The most delicate substance to accomplish 
this is sulphocyanide of cobalt, originally proposed by Grotthus. 
This is prepared by adding an alcoholic solution of potassium 
sulphocyanide to an aqueous solution of cobaltous sulphate, 
until no more potassium sulphate sepai-ates. The whole is 
transferred to a filter, and the residue on the filter (potassium 
sulphate) washed with alcohol. The dilute filtrate may be 
used as it is, for impregnating paper, or it may be concen- 
trated by very careful evaporation at as low a temperature as 
possible. The salt may be obtained crystalline by removing 
the alcoholic menstruum in the vacuum of an air-pump. It 
forms violet columns, soluble in water with red color. Paper 
impregnated with the alcoJiolic solution, or on which tracings 
have been made with the latter, turns reddish in dfy air, but 
assumes a blue color at the slightest elevation of temperature. 

Creases, To Take out (/ Drawirig Paper m* Engravings. — ^Lay 
the paper or engraving, face downwards, on a sheet of smooth, 
unsized white paper ; cover it with another sheet of the same, 
very slightly damped, and iron with a moderately warm flat 
iron. 

Ih^awing Paper, To Mount. — Sometimes it is difficult to get 
a drawing on a sheet of paper of the ordinary sizes when 
titretched upon a board, by reason of the waste edges used to 
secure the paper firmly ; and again, in stiff papers, such as 
the "EggsheU," so called, ordinary mucilage does not pos- 
sess sufficient strength, and glue has to be substituted, to the 
annoyance of the draughtsman. The following is a very 
simple way of obviating these difficulties : First moist«n the 
paper thoroughly ; then lay it upon the board in proper 
position, and, with blotting paper, remove most of the moist- 
ure for a distance of half an inch or thereabouts from the 



lized by 



Google 



THE WORKSHOP COMPANION. lOS 

edged ; tlien take strips of Manila paper (not too stiff) about 
one and a half inches wide, covered on one side with mucil- 
age, and paste them down on both paper and board, allowing 
them to la}) on the edges of the sheet about half an inch. 
Koiip the middle of the sheet thoroughly Vet until the 
mucilage on. the edges has set, when the whole sheet may be 
allowed to dry gi-adually. It will be found that this method 
is quicker and surer than any other, and is of great use where 
it is necessary to color on mounted paper. 

GUtss- Paper. — ^Paper coated with glass is known by this - 
name just as papeir coated with fine sharp sand is called sand- 
paper, and pa^er coated with emerj is called emery paper. 
Paper or a cheap cloth is coated with thinnish glue, dusted 
heavily and evenly with glass-powder of the proper fineness, 
and allowed to become nearly dry. The superfluous powder 
is then shaken off, the sheets are pressed to make them even, 
and afterwards thoroughly dried. 

The objection to ordinary glass-paper is that it is easily 
injured by heat and moisture. If the glue be mixed with a 
little bichromate of potassa before it is applied to the cloth, 
and exposed for some time to strong bright sunshine while it 
is drying, it will become insoluble in water. 

The glue may also be rendered insoluble by the process of 
tanning. The paper or cloth is first soaked in a solution of 
tannic acid and dried. The glue is then applied, the 
powdered glass dusted on, and over it is dusted a little tannic 
acid. If the glue be not very moist, it should be damped by 
means of an atomiser, a very cheap form of which is figured 
in The Young Sdentisty voL 2. The sheets are then slowly 
-ili'ied and will be found to resist moisture very thoroughly. 

Paper f To Prepare for Varnishing. — To prevent the ab- 
sorption of varnish, and injury to any color or design on the 
paper, it is necessary to first give it two or three coats of 
size. The best size for white or delicate colors is made by 
dissolving a little isinglass in boiling water, or by boiling 
some clean parchment cuttings until they form a clear solu- 
tion ; then strain through a piece of clean muslin. It may be 
applied with a clean soft paint brush, the first coat, especially, 
very lightly. The best brush for this purpose is the kind 
used by vamishers for giving the finishing flow coats of 
varnish, wide, flat and soft ; or where there is much danger 
of injuring a design, and the paper article will allow of it, it 

ogle 



104 THE WORKSHOP COMPANION. 

Is a good plan for the first coat, to pour the solution into a 
wide, flat dish, and pass the paper through it once, and back 
Again, and then hang it up to dry. For less delicate pur- 
poses, a little light'Colored glue, soaked over night in enough 
"Water to cover it, and then dissolved by heat, adding hot 
■water enough to dilute it sufficiently, will make an excellent 
sizing. 

Pcilen Powder, or Paper Powder. — ^Boil white paper or 
paper cuttings in water for five hours. Pour off the water, 
pound the pulp in a wedgwood mortar, and psuss through a 
fine sieve. This powder is employed by the bird stuffers to 
dust over the legs of some birds, and the bills of others, to 
give them a powdery appearance ; also to communicate the 
downy bloom to rough-coated artificial fruit, and other pur- 
poses of a similar nature ; it makes excellent pounce. 

Tracing Paper, — Tracing paper may be purchased so 
cheaply that it is hardly worth while to make it ; and there 
is a very fine, tough kind now in market which may be 
mounted and colored almost like drawing paper. Those who 
desire to prepare some for themselves will find that the follow* 
ing directions give a good result. The inventor of the pro- 
cess received a medal and premium from the Society of Arts 
for it. 

Open a quire of tough tissue paper, and brush the first 
sheet with a mixture of equal parte of mastic varnish and oil 
of turpentine. Proceed with each sheet similarly and dry 
them on lines by hanging them up singly. As the process 
goes on, the under sheets absorb a portion of the varnish, and 
require less than if single sheete were brushed separately. 
The paper, when dry, is quite light and transparent, and may 
readily be written on with ink. 

Transfer paper. — This is useful for copying patterns, draw- 
ings, etc. Designs for scroll saws may be copied very neatly 
by means of it. It is easily made by rubbing a thin but 
tough unglazed paper with a mixture of lard and lampblack. 
The copy is made by laying a sheet of the transfer or, as it 
is sometimes called, manifold paj^er, over a clean sheet of 
drawing or writing paper, and over it the drawing to he 
copied. The lines of the drawing are then carefully traced 
with a fine but blunt point, and the pressure along the lines 
transfers to the clean paper underneath a perfect copy. To 
keep the under side of the drawing or pattern clean, a sheet 



Digitized by 



Google 



THE WORKSHOP C50MPANI0N. 105 

of ilssne paper may be placed between it and the transfer 
paper. 

Water StaitiSy To Remove from Engravings or Paper. — ^Fill a 
large vessel with pure water and dip the engraving in, waving 
it backward and forward until thoroughly wet. Then spread 
a shoot of clean white paper on a drawing board, lay the en- 
graving on it and fasten both to the board with drawing pins. 
Expose it to bright sunshine, keeping it moist until the stains 
disappear, which will not be long. This is simply a modifi- 
cation of the old system of bleaching linen. 

Waxed Papei\ — ^Paper saturated with wax, paraffin or 
stearin is very useful for wrapping up articles which should 
be kept dry and not exposed to the air. Place a sheet ' of 
stout paper on a heated iron plate, and over this place the 
sheets of unglazed paper — tissue paper does very well — that 
are to be waxed. Enclose the wax or paraffin in a piece of 
muslin, and as it melts spread it evenly over the paper. 

Patina. 

An imitation of patina for brpnze objects of all kinds can 
be produced by preparing a paint of carbonate of copper 
and any light alcoholic varnish, and applying it to the object 
with a brush. . This green color penetrates the smallest re- 
cesses, and has, when dry, the appearance of patina. Car- 
bonate of copper gives a blue patina, verdigris a light green, 
and intermediate shades of color can be obtained by mixing 
the two. 

Patterns— To Trace. 

There are various methods of making copies of patterns on 
paper, the simplest perhaps being the use of the ti'acing 
paper described on another page. 

When a few duplicates of patterns for embroidery are re- 
quired, they may be very easHy made by hand as follows : 

The drawing is made upon paper ; then lay the drawing 
upon an even cloth, and perforate all the lines with a fine 
needle, close and even. Then take finely powdered charcoal, 
three parts, resin one part in fine powder ; mix and tie it in 
a piece of porous calico, so that it forms a dusting bag. Lay 
the perforated drawing upon your material, hold down with 
one hand, rub the dusting-bag over the drawing ; the dust 
will fall through the holes and form the drawing on the ma- 
teriid. Bemove the paper drawing, lay blotting-pap^ over 



106 THE WORKSHOP COMPANION. 

the dast pattern, and go over it with a warm flat iron 
The heat will melt the resin and fix the drawing on the 
material 

Pencils as a Substitute for Ink. 

Aniline pencils have been in use for some time, and have 
given good satisfaction, but the following is said to give even 
better results. Pencils made after the following formula 
give a very black writing, capable of being reproduced by 
the copying machine, and which does not fade on exposure 
to light. The mass for these pencils is prepared as follows : 
10 pounds of the best logwood are repeatedly boiled in 10 
gallons of water, straining each time. The nquid is then 
evaporated down till it weighs 10 pounds, and is then 
allowed to boil in a pan of stoneware or enamel. To the 
boiling liquid, nitrate of oxide of chrome is added in small 
quantities, until the bronze-colored precipitate formed at first 
is redissolved with a deep blue coloration. This solution is 
then evaporated in the water bath down to a sirup, with 
which is mixed well kneaded clay in the proportion of 1 part 
of clay to 3i of extract. A little gum tragacanth in also 
added to obto.in a proper consistence. 

It is absolutely necessary to use the salt of chrome in the 
right proportion. An excess of this salt gives a disagreeable 
appearance to the writing, while if too litfle is used the black 
matter is not sufficiently soluble. 

The other salts of chrome cannot be used in this prepara- 
tion, as they would crystallize, and the writing would scale 
off as it dried. 

The nitrate of oxide of chrome is prepared by precipitating 
a hot solution of chrome alum with a suital)le quantity of 
carbonate of soda. The precipitate is washed till the filtrate 
is free from sulphuric acid. The precipitate thus obtained 
is dissolved in pure nitric acid, so as to leave a little still 
undissolved. Hence the solution contains no free acid, 
which would give the ink a dirty red color. Oxalic acid and 
caustic alkalies do not attack the writing. Dilute nitric 
acid reddens, but does not obliterate the characters. 

Pencil Marks— To Fix. 

To fix Pencil Marks so they will not rub out, take well- 
skimmed milk and dilute with an equal bulk of water. 
"Wash the pencil marks (whether writing or drawing) with 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



THE WOBKSHOP COMPANION. 107 

tills liquid, ufiing a soft, flat camel-hair bmsh, and avoiding 
all rubbing. Place upon a flat board to dry. 

Pewter. 

The principal constituents of pewter are lead and tin ; the 
proportions of the two metals deijcnding somewhat on the 
use to which the alloy is put. The best contains but 16 
to 20 per cent, of lead. Of this plates aud dishes are made, 
-which look like block tin, q,nd can be brightly polished by 
rubbing. The addition of more lead cheapens the com- 
modity, and gives it a dull bluish ai)pearance. In France 
pewter vessels for wine and vinegar contain 18 per cent, of 
lead. It has been found that a larger i^roportion of that 
metal in utensils for this purpose \i liable to result in the 
formation, in the liquid, of the jioisonous acetate or sugar of 
lead. 

A little copper added in making pewter hardens the com- 
pouiid and renders it sonorous, so that toy trumpets and 
other rude musicral instniments can be made of it. If the 
copper is replaced by antimony, hardness and a silvery lustre 
are the result. If the contents of the melting pot are stirred 
with a strip half of zinc and half of tin, or if a lump of zinc 
is allowed to float on the melted metal during the casting, 
the vaporized spelter seems to protect the fluid mass from 
oxidation, and prevents the formation of dross. Hence it is 
said to ** cleanse " the mass. 

Jewellers use polishers and laps of pewter, and sheets of 
the article are to some extent used for cheap engraving, 
music notes, or other figures being stamped upon it instead 
of being cut with a burin or graver. The ease with which it 
melts causes it to be employed by tinsmiths and tinkers for 
solder. Care must be taken not to set pewter dishes, mugs, 
spoons, lamps, etc., on stoves or other hot bodies, as, if left 
for any time, they are liable to settle* into shapeless lumps. 

Pillows for the Sick Room. 

Save all your scraps of writing paper, old envelopes, old 
notes of no use for keeping, old backs of notes, etc. Cut 
them in strips about one-half inch wide and two inches long, 
and curl them well with an old penknife. Make a pillow case 
of any materials you have ; fill it with your curled paper mixed 
with a few shreds of flannel. Stuff it quite full, sew up the 
end and cover as you please^ These pillows are invaluably 



Digitized by 



Google 



108 THE WORKSHOP CX)MPANION. 

in cases of fever, as they keep constantly cool and allow a 
circnlation of air. 

Plaster of Paris. 

Plaster of Paris is a well known material, obtained by ex- 
posing the purer varieties of gypsum or alabaster to a heat 
a little above that of boiling water, when it becomes a fine, 
white dry powder. Sometimes the gypsum is first reduced 
to a fine powder and then heated in iron pans, and in this 
case the operation is sometimes called "boiling" plaster, 
because the escape of the water, with which crystalline gyp- 
sum is always combined, gives to the fine powder the appear- 
ance of boiling. Plaster of Paris, after being boiled, rapidly 
deteriorates when exposed to the air, consequently when 
plaster is required for making cements or for other purj^oses 
for which a good article is needed, care must be taken* to 
secure that which is good and freshly boiled. The Italian 
image makers always use a superior quality of plaster, and it 
may generally be obtained from them in small quantity. 

The employment of gyi^sum in casting, and in all cases 
where impressions are required, is very extensive. A thin 
pulp of 1 part gypsum and 2\ parts water is made ; this pulp 
hardens by standing. The hardening of good, well-burnt 
gypsum is efiected in one to two minutes, and m5re quickly 
in a moderate heat. Models are made in this substance for 
galvano-plastic purposes, for metallic castings, and for ground 
works in porcelain manufacture. The object from which the 
cast is to be taken is first well oiled to prevent the adhesion 
of the gypsum. When greater hardness is required a pmall 
quantity of lime is added ; this addition gives a very marble- 
like appearance, and the mixture is much employed in archi- 
tecture, being then knoWn as gypsum-marble or stucco. 
The gypsum is generally mixed with lime water, to which 
sometimes a solution of sulphate of zinc is added, After 
drying, the surface is rubbed down with pumice stone, 
colored to represent marble, and polished with Tripoli and 
olive oil. Artificial scagliola work is largely composed of 
gypsum. 

There are several methods of hardening gypsum. One of 
the oldest consists in mixing the burnt gypsum with lime- 
water or a solution of gum arable. Another, yielding V017 
good results, is to mix the gypsum with a solution of 20 



Digitized by 



Google 



THE WORKSHOP COMPANION. 109 

ounces of alum in 6 pounds of water ; this plaster hardens 
completely in 15 to 30 minutes, and is largely used under 
the name of marble cement. Parian cement is gypsum 
hardened by means of borax, 1 part borax being dissolved in 
9 parts of water, and the gypsum treated with the solution. 
Still better results are obtamed by the addition to this solu- 
tion of 1 part of cream of tartar. 

The hardening of gypsum with a water-glass solution is 
found difficult, and no Ibetter results are obtained than with 
ordinary gypsum. Fissot obtains, artificial stone from gyp- 
sum by burning and immersions in water, first for half a 
minute, after which it is exposed to the air and again for two 
to three minutes^ when the block appears as a hardened stone. 
It would seem from this method that the augmentation in 
hardness is due to a new crystalization. Hardened gypsum, 
treated with stearic acid or with paraffine, and polished, 
much resembles meerschaum ; the resemblance may be in- 
creased bj a coloring solution of gamboge and dragon's 
blood, to mipart a faint red-yellow tint. The cheai^ artificial 
meerschaum pipes are manmactured by this method. 

Poisons. 

Many of the substances used in the arts are highly poison- 
ous. Indeed, some of the most virulent poisons are em- 
ployed in very common operations. Thus arsenic is used for 
coloring brass ; the strong acids are used in every machine 
shop and foundry, and even prussic aci& may be occasionally 
produced during the employment of prussiate of x)otash. 
The extremely poisonous cyanide of potassium is used by 
every photographer and electroplater. Even into the house- 
hold, poisons too frequently find their way. Our matches are 
tipped with a strong poison, and housekeepei-s are often too 
ready with poison for the destruction of vermin. Phos- 
phorous, arsenic and corrosive sublimate, are too frequently \ 
thus used. Pai-is green also we have actually seen used for ! 
the destruction of cockroaches in pantries, and corrosive 
sublimate is in Common use as a poison for bed-bugs. As a 
bug poison it is generally dissolved in alcohol or whiskey, 
and the odor and taste have sometimes proved a strong 
temptation to persons who did not fully realize its dangerous 
character. All bottles containing such mixtures should 
therefore be carefully labelled, ** POISON," in large letters. 



Digitized by 



Google 



110 THE WORKSHOP COMPANION. 

and \ixien emptied they should either be broken, or very 
carefully cleansed, since accidents have arisen from careless 
l)3i*sons pouring drinkable liquids into bottles that have 
c mtained solutions of corrosive sublimate, which solutions, 
after drying up have left the bottle apparently empty, but in 
r ality containing an amount of poison sullicient to destroy 
several lives. 

In all cases where poisons have been swallowed, the prof)Rr 
course is first to neutralize the deleterious agent, and thru to 
procure its rejection by means either of the stomach-pump 
or an emetic. The stomach-pump is, of course, the best and 
most expeditious agent. It requires but a few moments to 
insert it and remove the contents of the stomach ; fresh sup- 
plies of water and the proper antidotes can then be poured 
into the organ, so that in a few minutes the last traces of the 
poison can be removed* But as the stomach-pump is to bo 
found in the possession of physicians only, reliance must in 
general be j^laced upon emetics, of which the best is, un- 
ci uestionably, mustard — an article which is to be found in 
almost every household. It is generally conceded by physi- 
cians that mustard is the mildest, most rapid, and most 
efficient emetic known. It is prepared for use as follows : 
Take about a plump dessert-spoonful of genuine flour of 
mustard (if it be mixed with wheat flour or turmeric, more 
will be needed), and mix it rapidly in a cup with water to 
the consistency of thin gruel, and let this be swallowed 
without delay or hesitation. In a very few seconds the con- 
tents of the stomach will be ejected. Before the emetic 
action has entirely ceased, a little lukewarm water, or stiU 
bitter, warm milk, should be forced down. This will be 
thrown off immediately, and will serve to rinse out the 
stomach and remove the last tmces of deleterious matter. 

By the time the operation of the emetic has ceased, a phy- 
sician will probably be in attendance, and to his care the 
patient should be at once confided. 

The following notes on special poisons will prove useful : 

Strong Acid, — ^Where nitric, sulphuric or hydrochloric 
acid has been swallowed, it is well to administer carbonate 
of soda before giving the emetic. 

Oxalic Add. — This acid is often found among the articles 
provided for household use, being used for cleaning brass 
and various metals, as well as for removing stains of ink and 



Digitized by 



Google 



THE WORKSHOP COMPANION. Ill 

iron mould. In former times it W8« used for cleaning boot 
tops and for some other purposes. In appearance it re- 
sembles epsom salts so closely that even experienced chemists 
might be deceived, if it were not for the taste, for while tho 
acid is intensely sour the salts are as intensely bitter. 

The proper a*^fcidote to oxalic acid is some form of lime, 
and the best method of administering it is to mix finely 
pulverized chalk with water to the consistency of cream and 
swallow it. It is a singular fact that when oxalic acid is 
largely diluted with water, it acts very rapidly and energeti- 
calr^, destroying life almost with the rapidity of prussio 
acid. Hence to administer soapy water, or any other very 
diluted remedy, would be almost fatal. And yet this course 
was actually recommended by a popular scientific journal. 

Prussic Acid. — ^As this is one of the most rapid of all 
poisons in its action, prompt and energetic measures are de- 
manded. Cold affusion to the head and spine has been found 
the most efficacious mode of treatment. Internal remedies 
appear to be of no service. The vapor of ammonia may be 
cautiously applied to the nostrils, and stimulating liniments 
by friction to the chest and abdomen, but unless the dose is 
small, and the patient is seen early, there can be little hope 
of benefit from any treatment. Certain chemical substances 
(cyanides) from which prussio acid is slowly evolved by the 
action of the air, are used in electro-plating and in photo- 
gi*aphy. These substances are themselves very strong poisons, 
and if accidentsJly swallowed they cause death with such 
rapidity that there is scarcely any time to apply any remedies. 
Green copperas (sulphate of iron) dissolved in water and ad- 
ministered would decompose and neutralize the poison, after 
which the directions given for prussic acid should be followed. 
When poisoning occurs from breathing the vapors arising 
fi'om these salts, it is caused by prussic acid, and should be 
treated accordingly. 

Arsenic — PmHs Green, — ^By arsenic is generiilly meant tha 
white oxide of the metal ai'senic. It is also k^own as arsenious 
acid. Paris green is well known and owes its deadly proper- 
ties to arsenic. In all cases in which poisonous doses of 
arsenic have been swallowed, our great dependance must be 
placed upon emetics and purgatives. Persons who take 
arsenic upon a full stomach frequently escape its effects, and 
therefore it is always well to give copiouB draughts of milk« 



Digitized by 



Google 



112 THE WORKSHOP COMPANION. 

or, if more convenient, raw eggs, beaten np. Then, as soon 
as possible, administer an emetic (mustard is as good as any) 
and keep up its action by giving milk during the intervtdii 
of the paroxysms of vomiting. When the stomach no longer 
rejects what is swallowed, give a good dose of castor oil. 

Corrosive Stiblimale.r— When corrosive sublimate has been 
swallowed, the first thing to be done is, if possible, to get 
rid of it, either by means of emetics or the stomach-pump. 
If the poison has been taken on a full stomach, an emetic or 
the pump is the first thing in order ; if the stomach be emi)ty, 
it will be better to administer, in the first place, as much 
white of eggf or milk, or mixture of both, as the patient can 
be made to ^wallow, and immediately afterwards give an 
emetic. The white of eggs is the great antidote for corrosive 
sublimate, but it is of no use where the poison has been ab- 
sorbed into the system, and if, after administering white of 
eggs, we neglect to procure its rejection, the compound that 
is formed may be destroyed by the action of the gastric juice, 
and left free to act with all its original virulence. 

Phosphorous. — There is no efficient antidote or remedy for 
poisoning by phosphorous. Taylor recommends the admin- 
istration of emetics, and of albuminous or mucilaginous 
drinks, holding hydrate of magnesia suspended. The exhibi- 
tion of oil woidd be decidedly injurious, as this dissolves and 
tends to diffase the poison. Salme purgatives should there- 
fore be preferred. 

Opium. — ^When a poisonous dose of opium has been taken, 
the first object should be to remove the poison, and this must 
frequently be accomplished by the stomach-pump, as emetics 
are of little service wljen the patient has lost the power of 
swallowing. Dashing cold water on the head, chest, and 
spine, has been adopted with great success ; in the treatment 
of infants, the plunging of the body into a warm bath, and 
suddenly removing it from the water into the cold air, has 
been found a most effectual method of rousing them. Severe 
whipping on the palms of the hands and soles of the feet or 
the back has also been successfully employed. A common 
plan for rousing an adult is to keep him in continual motion, 
by making him walk between two assistants. Above all things, 
the tendency to fall into a state of lethargy must be prevented. 
A strong decoction of coffee has been frequently employed as 
ft stimulant to promote recovery, and apparently with benefit* 



Digitized by 



Google 



THE WOBKSHOP COMPANION. 113 

i^ychnine. — ^When this poison has been absorbed and con- 
veyed into the blood there is no known antidote to its action. 
3)ut if spasms have not already set in so as to close the jaws, 
we should, by the stomach-pump or by emetics, endeavor to 
remove the poison. In a case in which six grains of strychnine 
were taken, the life of the person appears to have been saved 
by the early use of the stomach-pump. It has been supposed 
that emetics would not act in these cases ; but this is an 
error based on imperfect observation. In one case a man 
took three grains of strychnine, dissolved in rectified spirits 
and diluted sulphuric acid. He went to bed and slept for 
about an hour and a half, when he awoke in a spasm, utter- 
ing loud cries, which alarmed the household.. Free vomiting 
was brought on by the use of emetics, and this, combined 
with other treatment, led to his recovery, Th@ first step, 
therefore, in every case, should be to induce vomiting. 

Ivy Poisoning. — -The best remedy for ivy poisoning Is said 
to be sweet spirits of nitre. Bathe the parts affected freely with 
this fluid three or fonr times during the day, and the next 
morning scarcely any trace of poison will be found. If the 
blisters be broken, so as to allow the spirits to penetrate the 
cuticle, a single application will be sufficient. 

Stings. — Extract the sting, which is always left behind by 
bees, and bathe the parts with cold water, or apply a good 
poultice of common clay mud. Liquid ammonia mixed either 
with the water or the mud, will prove of service. All lini- 
ments which require rubbing are bad, as tending to irritate 
the part and diffuse the poison. Above all, avoid sci-atching 
the wound. 

Polishing Powders. 

Nothing is more necessary to the successful use of polish- 
ing powder than equality in the grain. Fine dust clogs the 
action of coarse grinding powders, and prevents them from 
cutting with rapidity the object to be ground ; coarse parti- 
cles mixed with fine polishing powder scratch the article to 
be polished, and render grinding and polishing necessary 
again. To secure fineness and uniformity no process equals 
that of elutriation, which is thus performed : Suppose it 
were desired to separate the ordinary flour of emery into 
three different degrees of fineness. Take three vessels (such as 
tin pails or glass jars) and mix the emery with a large 



Digitized by 



Google 



114 TnE WORKSHOP COMPANION. -_^ - 

quantity of "water — say a quart of water to Ij 655. of emery. 
Stir the mixture until the emery is thoroughly diflFased 
through the liquid, and allow to stand five minutes. By this 
time all the heavier particles will have settled, and on pour- , 
iiii^ the fluid into a second jar only the finer portion will bo 
carried over. So continue to wasli the first residuum until 
nearly all the particles have subsided at the end of five 
minutes, and the water is left comparatively clear. You will 
now have the coarse portion, No. 1, by itself. 

So, from the sediment collected from the washings of No. 1, 
you may collect a portion. No. 2, having a second degree of 
coarseness. The last and finest will be obtained by letting 
the final wasliings stand ten or fifteen minutes, poui'ing off 
the liquid and allowing it to settle. 

The principal polishing powders are chalk or whitings 
crocus or rouge, emery, oilstone powder, and putty or tutty, 
which latter consists chiefly of oxide of tin. Other powdei*s, 
such as tripoli, bath-brick, sand, etc., are rarely used for tlio 
finer kinds of work. Emery is so well known that it docs 
not need description. 

Clicdk or Whiting, — Chalk is a native carbonate of lime, 
consisting of the remains of minute creatures known as/o7'- 
nminiferay and when simply scraped or crushed under a 
hammer or runner, it is sometimes used for polishing such 
soft Substances a»3 bone, ivory, etc. As it contains particles 
of silica of varying size, it cuts freely, but is apt to scratch. 
To remove the gritty particles, the chalk is ground, and the 
finer parts separated by washing. It then becomes whiting, 
which is generally sold in lumps. Whiting has very poor 
cutting qualities, and it is therefore used chiefly as plate . 
powde?' for cleaning gold, silver, glass, etc., and for absorb- 
ing grease from metals which have been polished bv other 
means. 

Prepared Chalk. — This is a manufactured article, pre- 
pared by adding a solution of carbonate of soda to a solution 
of chloride of calcium (both cheap salts), so long as a precip- 
itate is thrown down. The solutions should be carefully 
filtered through paper before being mixed, and dust should 
be rigorously excluded. The white powder which falls 
down is carbonate of lime, or chalk, and when carefully 
washed and dried, it forms a most excellent polishing powder 
for the softer metals. The particles are almost impalpablei 



Digitized by 



Google 



THE WORKSHOP COMPi^IOK. 115 

but seem to be crrstalline, for tliey polish quickly and 
smoothly, though they seem to wear away the material so 
little that its form or sharpness is not injured to any per- 
ceptible degree. 

Ch^ocus or Rouge. — These articles are manufactured at 
Liverpool, by pei-sons who make it their sole occupation, in 
the following manner : 

They take crystals of sulphate of iron (green vitriol or 
copperas), immediately from the crystallizing vessels, in the 
copperas works there, so as to have them as clean as possible ; 
and instantly put them into crucibles or cast iron pots, and 
expose them to heat, without suffering the smallest pai-ticle 
of dust to get in, which would have a tendency to scratch 
the articles to be polished. Those portions which are least 
calcined and are of a scarlet color, are fit to make rouge for 
polishing gold or silver, while those which are calcined or 
have become red-purple or bluish-purple, form crocus fit for 
polishing brass or steel. Of these, the bluish-purple colored 
parts are the hardest, and are found nearest to the bottom of 
the vessels, and consequently have been exposed to the 
greatest degree of heat. 

Mr. Andrew Boss's mode of preparing Oxide of Iron. — 
Dissolve crystals of sulphate of iron in water ; filter the 
solution to separate some particles of silex which ai*e gen- 
erally present, and sometimes are abundant ; then precipitate * 
from this filtered solution the protoxide of iron, by the addi- 
tion of a saturated solution of soda, which must also be 
filtered. This grey oxide is to be repeatedly washed and 
then dried ; put it in this state into a crucible, and very 
gradually raise it to a dull red heat; then pour it into a 
clean metal or earthen dish, and while cooling it will absorb 
oxygen from the atmosphere, and acquire a beautiful dark 
red color. In this state it is fit for polishing the softer 
metals, as silver and gold, but will scarcely make any impres- 
sion on hardened steel or glass. For these latter purposes I 
discovered that it is the black oxide that affected the polish 
(and this gives to the red oxide a purple hue, which is used 
as the criterion of its cutting quality in ordinary), therefore 
for polishing the harder materials the oxide must be heated 
to a bright red, and kept in that state until a sufficient 
quantity of it is converted into black oxide to give the mass 
a deep purple hue when exposed to the atmosphera ^I have 

_^ /Google 



lie THE WORKSHOP COMPAKIOK. 

converted the whole into black oxide ; but this is liable to 
scratch, and does not work so pleasantly as when mixed with 
tlie softer material. The powder must now be levigated 
with a soft wrought iron spatula, upon a soft iron slab, and 
afterwards washed in a very weak solution of gam arable, as 
recommended by Dr. Green in his paper on specula. The 
oxide prepared in this manner is almost impalpable, and 
free from all extraneous matter, and has the requisite quality 
in an eminent degree for polishing steel, glass, the softer 
gems, etc. 

L(yrd Bosses Mode of preparing the Peroxide of Iron, — 
**I prepare the peroxide of iron by precipitation with water 
of ammonia from a pure dilute solution of sulphate of iron ; 
the precipitate is washed, pressed in a screw press till nearly- 
dry, and exposed to a heat wluch in the dark appears a dull 
low red. The only points of importance are, that the sul- 
phate of iron should be pure, that the water of ammonia 
should be decidedly in excess, and that the heat should 
not exceed that I have described. The color will be a bright 
crimson inclining to yellow. I have tried both soda and 
potash, pure, instead of water of ammonia, but after washing 
with some degree of care, a trace of the alkali still remained, 
and the peroxide was of an ochrey color tiU overheated, and 
did not polish properly." 

* Oilstone Powdei\ — The Turkey oilstone can hardly be con- 
sidered as a hone slate, having nothing of ^ lamellar or schis- 
tose appearance. As a whetstone it surpasses every other 
known substance, and possesses, in an eminent degree, the 
property of abrading the hardest steel, and is, at the same 
time, of so compact and close a nature bja to resist the 
pressure necessary . for sharpening a graver or other small 
instmment of that description. Little more is known of its 
natural history than that it is found in the interior of Asia 
Minor, and brought down to Smyrna for sale. The white 
and black varieties of Turkey oilstone differ but little in 
their general characters ; the black is, however, somewhat 
harder, and is imported in larger pieces than the white. 

Fragments of oilstone, when pulverized, sifted and washed, 
are much in request by mechanicians. This abrasive is 
generally preferred for grinding together those fittings of 
mathematical instruments and machinery, which are made 
wholly or in part of brass or gun metal, for oilstone being 



Digitized by 



Google 



THE WORKSHOP COMPANION. 117 

^* 
Bofter and more pnlvemlent than emery, is less liable to bo- 
eome embedded in the metal than emery, which latter is then 
apt continually to grind, and ultimately damage the accuracv 
of the fittings of brass works. In modem practice it is usual, 
however, as far as possible, to discard the grinding together 
of surfaces, with the view of producing accuracy of form, or 
precision of contact. 

Oilstone powder is preferred to pumice-stone powder for 
polishing superior brass works, and it is also used by the 
watchmaker on rubbers of pewter in polishing steel. 

Pumice-stone Powder. — ^Pumice-stone is a volcanic product, 
and is ob^ined principally from the Campo Bianco, one of 
the Lipafi islands, which is entirely composed of this sub- 
stance. It is extensively employed in various branches of the 
arts, and particularly in the state of powder, for polishing 
the various articles of cut glass ; it is also extensively used 
in dressing leather, and in grinding and polishing the surface 
of metallic plates, etc. 

Pumice-stone is gix/ttnd or crushed under a runner, and 
sifted, and in this state it it^ used for brass and other metal 
works, and also for japanned, varnished and painted goods, 
for which latter purposes it is generally appUed on woolen 
cloths with water. 

Putty Powder is the pulverized oxide of tin, or generally 
of tin and lead mixed in various proportions. The process 
of manufacture is alike in all cases — ^the metal is oxidized in 
an iron muffle, or a rectangular box, close on all sides, 
except a square hole in the front side. The retort is sur- 
rounded bv fire, and kept at a red heat, so that its contents 
are partially ignited, and they are continually stirred to 
expose fresh portions to the heated air ; the process is com- 
plete when the fluid metal entirely disappears, and the 
upper paii; of the oxide then produced, sparkles somewhat 
like particles of incandescent charcoal. The oxide is then 
removed with ladles, and spread over the bottom of large 
iron cooling pans and allowed to cool. The lumps of oxide 
which are as hard as marble, are then selected from the 
mass and ground dry under the runner ; the putty powder 
is afterwards carefully sifted through lawn. 

As a criterion of quality it may be said that the whitest 
putty powder is the purest, provided it be heavy. Some of 
the common kinds are brown and yellow, while others, from 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



118 THE WOKKSHOP COMPANION. 

the intentional admixture of a little ivory black, are known 
as grey putty. The pure white putty which is used by mar- 
ble workers, opticians and some others, is the smoothest and 
most cutting ; it should consist of the oxide of tin alone, but 
to lessen the difficulty of manufacture, a venr little lead (the 
linings of tea chests), or else an alloy called shruff (pre- 
pared in ingots by the pewterers) is added to assist the 
oxidation. 

The putty powder of commerce of good fair quality, is 
made of about equal parts of tin and lead, or tin and shiruff ; 
the common dark colored kinds are prepared of lead only, 
but these are much harsher to the touch, and altogether 
inferior. 

Perhaps the most extensive use of putty powder, is in glass 
and marble works, but the best kind serves admirably as 
plate powder, and for the general purposes of polishing. 

Putty powder for fine optical purposes is prepared by 
Mr. A. Boss by the following method, which is the result of 
many experiments. Metallic tin is dissolved in nitra-muriatio 
acid, and precipitated from the filtered solution by liquid 
. ammonia, both fluids being largely diluted with water. The 
peroxide of tin is then washed in abundance of water, col- 
lected in a cloth filter, and squeezed as dry as possible in a 
piece of new clean linen ; the mass is now subjected to 
pressure in a screw-press, or between lever boards, to make it 
as dry as possible. When the lump thus produced has been 
broken in pieces and dried in the air, it is finally levigated 
while dry on a plate of glass with an iron spatula, and after- 
wards exposed in a crucible to a low white heat. 

Before the peroxide has been heated, or while it is in the 
levigated hydrous stat«, the putty powder possesses but little 
cutting quality, as under the microscope, the particles then 
appear to have no determined form, or to be amorpliotis, 
and, on being wetted, to resume the gelatinous condition of 
the hydrous precipitate, so as to be useless for polishing ; 
whereas, when the powder is heated, to render it anhydrous, 
most of the particles take their natural form, that of lamelhrr 
crystals, and act with far more energy (yet without scratch- 
ing) than any of the ordinary polishing powders. The whole 
mass requires to be washed or elutriated in the usual manner 
after having been heated, in order to separate the coarser 
particles. 



Digitized by 



Google 



THE WORKSHOl* COMPANION. 119 

Mr. Ross TisTially adds a little crocus to the pntty powder 
by way of coloring matter, as it is then easier to learn the 
quantity of powder that remains on the polishing tool, and 
it may he added that this is the polishing powder employed 
by Mr. Boss in making his improved sbchromatio object- 
glasses for astronomical telescopes. 

Vienfia Lime. — Vienna lime and alcohol give a beautiful 
polish to iron or steel. Select the soft pieces of lime, such 
as will be easily crushed by the thumb and "Qnger, as thoy 
are the most free from gritty particles. Apply with a cork, 
piece of soft pine wood, leather, chamois, etc. 

Resins. 

The resins are so frequently employed in the arts that a 
knowledge of the action of different solvents upon them is of 
great value. 

Dr. Sac, of Neuenberg, Switzerland, has made an extensive 
inquiry into the nature of different resins. The following 
results, as obtained by him, are given in Dingler'a Pdi/- 
technic Journal : — The resins spoken of are copal, amber, 
dammar, common resins, shellac, elemi, sandarach and 
mastic. All these resins can be reduced to powder. 

The following will become pasty before melting : Amlier, 
shellac, elemi, sandarach and mastic ; the others wiU becoma 
liquid at once. 

In boiling water common resin will form a semi-fluid mass ; 
dammar, shellac, elemi and mastic will become sticky ; while 
copal, amber and sandarach will remain unchanged. 

Dammar and amber do not dissolve in alcohol ; copal Ikv 
comes pasty ; elemi dissolves with difficulty, while resin, 
shellac, sandarach and mastic dissolve easily. 

Acetic acid makes common resin swell ; on all the others 
it has no effect. 

Caustic soda dissolves shellac londily ; resin partly ; but 
has no influence on the others. 

Amber and shellac do not dissolve in sulphide of carbon ; 
copal becomes soft and expands ; elemi, sandarach and mastic 
dissolve slowly ; while resin and dammar dissolve easily. 

Oil of turpentine dissolves neither amber nor shellac, but 
swells copal ; dissolves dammar, resin, elemi and sandarach 
easily, and mastic very easily. 

Benzol does not dissolve copal, amber and shellac, bul 



Digitized by 



Google 



120 THE WORKSHOP COMPANION. 

does elemi and sandaracli to a IJnited extent ; while dammar, 
t^esin and mastic offer no difficulty. 

Petroleum ether has no effect on copal, amber and shellac ; 
it is a poor solvent for resin, elemi and sandarach, and a good 
one for dammar and mastic. 

Concentrated sulphuric acid dissolves all resins, imparting 
to them a dark brown color, excepting dammar, which takes 
a brilliant red tint. 

Boiling linseed oil has no effect on copal and amber ; 
shellac, elemi and sandarach dissolve easily. 

Nitric acid imparts to elemi a dirty yellow color ; to mastic 
and sandarach a light brown ; it does not affect the others. 

Ammonia is indifferent to amber, dammar, shellac (?) and 
elemi ; copal, sandarach and mastic become soft, and finally 
dissolve ; while resin will dissolve at once. 

Saws. 

The grand secret of putting any saw in the best possible 
cutting order, consists in filing the teeth at a given angle to 
cut rapidly, and of a uniform length, so that the points will 
all touch a straight-edged rule without showing a variation 
of a hundredth part of an inch. Besides this, there should 
be just enough set in the teeth to cut a kerf as narow as it 
can be made, and at the same time allow the blade to work 
freely without pinching. On the contrary, the kerf must not 
be so wide as to permit the blade to rattle when in motion. 
The yery points of the teeth do the cutting. If one tooth is 
a twentieth of an inch longer than two or three on each side 
of it, the long tooth will be required to do so much more 
cutting than it should, that the sawing cannot be done well. 
Hence the saw goes jumping along, working hard and cutting 
slowly. If one tooth is longer than those on either side of 
it, the shoit ones do not cut, although the points may be 
sharp Then putting a cross-cut saw in order, it wiU pay 
well io dress the points with an old file, and afterwards 
sharpen them with a fine whetstone, Much mechanical skill 
is requisite to put a saw in prime order. One careless thrust 
with a file will shorten the point of a tooth so much that it 
wiU be utterly useless, so far as cutting is concerned. The 
teeth should be set with much care, and the filing should be 
done with great accuracy. If the teeth are uneven at the 
points a large flat file should be secured to a block of wood 



Digitized by 



Google 



THE WOEKSHOP COMPANION. 121 

in sncli a manner that the very points only may be jointed, 
«o that the cutting edge of the same may be in a complete 
line or circle. Every tooth should cut a little as the saw is 
worked. The teetli of a handsaw, for all sorts of work, 
should be filed fleaming, or at an angle on the front edge ; 
while the back edge»s may be filed fleaming, or square across 
the blade. The bent way to file a circular saw for cutting 
wood across the grain, is to dress every fifth tooth square 
across and about ov 3-twentieth of an inch shorter than the 
othei-s, which should be filed fleaming at an angle of about 
forty degrees. 

Sieves. 

It is often desirable to sift powders into different degrees 
of fineness, and very fine sieves are not always to be easily 
had. Those made of hair and wire answer well, but the 
finest may be made out of the bolting cloth used by millers. 
It may be sewed over a hoop of tin or brass, or even a ring 
made of iron wire, or a piece of flexible wood bent into form 
may answer to hold the cloth. 

Shellac. 

Shellac or lac is a resinous substance which, in India, 
flows from certain trees in the form of lucid tears, in conse- 
5[uence of punctures made upon their branches by a small 
insect. 

It is found in commerce in three forms — stick lac, seed lac 
and shellac. Stick lac is the substance in its natural state in- 
vesting the small twigs of the trees, which are generally 
broken off in collecting it. When sei)arated from the twigs 
and partially cleansed it is known as seed lac. Shellac is the 
seed lac after it has been melted, purified and formed into 
thin cakes. 

Shellac is very apt to be adulterated with common resin, 
and hence, unless when a pale lacquer is required, most 
artisans prefer seed lao. When lac is mixed with a little 
resin and colored with vermillion or ivory black it forms 
sealing wax. 

Shellac is soluble in alcohol but not in turpentine. It is 
also soluble in alkaline solutions, including ammonia. A 
solution of borax in water dissolves it readily, and the result- 
ing solutipQ bft9 b^Q used as 9. cenjent, as a v^nish^ an4 aaj^ 

_.ized by Google 



IM THE WOBKSHOP COMPANION. 

basi^ for indelible ink. It is much used by hatters as an in- 
soluble cement. 

Clarifying SJieUac J^tUions. — ^Much trouble is generally ex- 
perienced in obtaining clear solutions of shellac. If a mixture 
of 1 part shellac with 7 parts of alcohol of 90 per cent, is 
heated to a suitable temperature, it quickly clears, but as 
quickly becomes turbid again on cooling. The only pi-actical 
method of freeing the solution from what some writers call 
** wax," and others *' fatty acid," which is present in shellac 
in the proportion of 1 to 5 per cent., and is the cause of the 
turbidity, has hitherto been the tedious process of repeated 
filtration. M. Peltz recommends the following method : 
Shellac 1 part is dissolyed in alcohol 8 parts, and allowed to 
stand for a few hours. Powdered chalk is then added in 
quantity equal to half the weight of shellac in the solution, 
and the latter is heated to 60° B. The greater portion of the 
solution clears rapidly, and the remainder may be claiified 
by once filtering. Carbonate of magnesia and sulphate of 
baryta were tried in the same way, but were not found equally 
efficacious. 

Bleached SkeUac. — ^When bleached by the ordinary process, 
shellac affords a polish for light woods, etc., that is brittle 
and liable to peel off, while the presence of a trace of chlorine 
causes metallic inlawing to become dim. These defects may 
be avoided by a different mode of bleaching, namely, by 
adding fine granulated bone-black to the solution of shellac 
in 90 per cent, alcohol, until a thin, pasty mass is formed, 
and exposing this for several days to direct sunlight, occa- 
sionally shaking it thoroughly and filtering when sufficiently 
bleached. 

Silver. 

Pure silver is quite soft, and is, therefore, genei-ally alloyec( 
with copper to harden it. 

Silversmiths' wori, after having been filed is generally 
rubbed, firstly, with a lump of pumice-stone and water; 
secondly, with a slip of water-of-Ayr stone and water; 
thirdly, a revolving brush with rottenstone and oil ; fourthly, 
an old black worsted stocking with oil and rottenstone, and 
fifthly, it is finished with the hand alone, the deep black 
]}\»\xe being given with rouge of great fineness. The cpn^^^ 

_.tized by Google 



THE WOBKSHOP COMPANION. 123 

ftnd edges are often burnished with a steel burnisher, which 
is lubricated with soap and water if at all. 

In this case and in all others of polishing with the naked 
hand, it is generally found that women succeed better than 
men, and that some few, from the peculiar texture and con- 
dition of the skin, greatly excel in the art of polishing. The 
skin should be soft and yery slightly moist, as the polishing 
powder then attaches itself conveniently, and there is just 
sufficient adhesion between the hand and work to make the 
operation proc^od rapidly. A dry hand becomes hard and 
horny, and ic V *ble to scratch the work, and excess of moist- 
ure is alsc obj ctionable, as the hand is then too slippery. 

The plated reflectors for light-houses are cleaned with 
rouge, which is dusted on from a muslin bag, and rubbed 
over them with a clean dry wash-leather. 

A thin film of oxide will nevertheless occasionally form on 
the surface of the reflector, and this is removed with a piece 
of leather, with rouge moistened with spirits of wine, which 
dissolves the oxide, after which the dry rubber is applied as, 
above. 

Oxidized Silver. — This is not an oxidization, but a combi- 
nation with sulphur or chlorine. Sulphur, soluble sulphides, 
and hydrosulphuric acid blacken silver, and insoluble silver 
salts, and particularly the chloride of silver, rapidly blackens 
'oy solar light. Add four or five thousandths of hydrosul- 
phate of ammonia, or of quintisulphide of potassium, to 
ordinary water at a temperature of 160^ to 180° Fahr. When 
the articles are dipped into this solution an iiidescent coating 
of silver sulphide covers them, which, after a few seconds 
more in the liquid, turns blue-black. Remove, rinse, scratch- 
brush, and burnish yfhen desired. Use the solution when 
freshly prepared, or the prolonged /leat will precipitate too 
much sulphur, and the deposit will be wanting in adherence ; 
besides, the oxidization obtained in freshly-prepared liquors 
is always brighter and blacker than that produced in old 
solutions, which is dull and grey. If the coat of silver is too 
thin, and the liquor too strong, the alkaline sulphide dissolves 
the silver, and the underlying metal appea^t. In this case 
cleanse and silver again, and use a weaker blac'i nning solu- 
tion. Oxidized parts and gilding may be put upon the same 
article by the foUowing method : After the whole surface has 
been g;ilt certain portions aro covered with the resist varnish ; 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



124 . THE WORKSHOP COMPANION. 

silver the remainder. Shonld the process of silvering by- 
paste and cold rubbing be employed, the gilding shonld be 
very pale, because it is not preserved, and is deeply reddened 
by the sulphur liquor. When this inconvenience occurs 
from a too concentrated liquor, it is partly remedied by 
rapidly washing the article in a tepid solution of cyanide of 
potassium. ^ 

A very beautiful effect is produced upon the surface of 
silver articles, technically termed oxidizing, which gives the 
surface an appearance of polished steel. This can be easily 
effected by tsiing a little chloride of platinum, heating the 
solution and applying it to the silver where an oxidized sur- 
faee is required, and allowing the solution to dry upon the 
silver. Tne darkness of the color produced varies according 
to the strength of the platinum solution from a light steel 
gray to nearly black. The effect of this process, when com- 
bined with what is termed dead work, is very pretty, and 
may be easily applied to medals, and similar objects. 

The high appreciation in which ornaments in oxidized 
silver are now held, renders a notice of the following pro- 
cesses interesting. There ai*e two distinct shades in use — 
one produced by a chloride and which has a brownish tint, 
and the other produced by sulphur, which has a bluish- black 
tint. To produce the former it is necessary to wash the 
article with a solution of sal ammoniac ; a much more 
beautiful tint may, however, be obtained by employing a 
solution composed of equal parts of sulphate of copper and 
sal ammoniac in vinegar. The fine black tint may be pro- 
duced by a slightly warm solution of sulphuret of potassium 
or sodium. 

The chloride of platinum mentioned above is easily pre- 
pared as follows : Take 1 part nitric aoid and 2 parts hydro- 
chloric (muriatic) acid ; mix together and add a little 
platinum ; keep the whole at or near a boiling hea.^. ; the 
metal is soon dissolved, forming the solution required. , 

Old Silvering. — To imitate old artistic productions made 
of solid silver, the groundwork and hollow portions not 
subject to friction are covered with a blackish-red^ earthy 
coat, the parts in relief remain with a bright lead lustre. 
Mix a thin paste of finely powdered plumbago with essence 
of turpentine, to which a small portion of red ochre may be 
ftdded to imitate the copper tinge of certain old silverware ; 



Digitized by 



Google 



THE WOrvKMOP COMPANION. 125 

smear tliis all over the articles. After drying, gently rub 
with a soft brush, and the reliefs are set off by cleaning with 
a rag dipped in spirits of wine. 

To give the old silver tinge to small articles, such as 
buttons and rings, throw them into the above paste, rub in a 
bag with a large quantity of dry boxwood sawdust until the 
desired shade is obtained. 

Gleaning Silver. — Silver being a comparatively soft metal, 
should never be rubbed with polishing powders capable of 
cutting or grinding, fis the delicate siurface, especially if 
engraved or ornamented, will be sure to have the delicate 
lines and work injured. In cleaning silver there are but two 
things that ever require to be removed — dirt and the sulphuret 
of silver. The latter appears as a coating on all silver articles 
exposed to the air, and especially on silver spoons etc., which 
have come in contact with sulphur or the yolk of eggs. 
Sulphuret or sulphide of silver is soluble in several salts, 
especially cyanide of potflflsium, hyposulphite of soda, and 
several salts of ammonia. Therefore, to clean silver which 
has been blackened with sulphur, the best plan is to dissolve 
off the sulphide by means of some of the chemicals named. 

For the ordinary purposes of cleansing silver the best 
material is a thin paste of alcohol, 2 parts ; ammonia, 1 part ; 
and wliiting enough to make a liquid like cream. This 
should be smeared or painted over the silver and allowed to 
stand until dry. If then brushed off with a very fine brush 
the silver will appear clear and bright. The alcohol and 
ammonia dissolve all dirt and sulphide, which are then ab- 
sorbed by the whiting and removed with it. 

Where really good whiting, that is to say, an article that is 
soft or free from grit, cannot be procured, starch may be 
used. 

Ink Stains, To Remove from Silver — The tops and other 
portions of silver inkstands frequently become deeply dis- 
colored with ink, which is difficult to remove by ordinary 
means. It may, however, be completely eradicated by making 
a little chloride of lime into a paste with water, and rubbing 
it upon the stains. ^ 

7h Dissolve the Silver off old Plated Goods. — ^Mix 1 oz. of 
finely powdered saltpetre with 10 oz. sulphuric acid, and 
steep the goods in this mixture. If diluted with water it 
fwts on copper and other metals, but if very strong it dig- 



Digitized by 



Google 



126 THE WORKSHOP COMPANION. 

solves the silver only, and may be used to dissolve silver off 
X>lated goods without affecting the other metals. 

Silvering. 

Leather, cloth, wood and similar materials are silvered 
by processes similar to those used for gilding, silver leaf 
being substituted for gold leaf. Metals may be silvered 
either by brazing a thin sheet of silver to the surface, or by 
electro-plating. Frequently, however, it is desired to lightly 
silver a metal surface, such as brass or copper, so as to make 
any figures engraved thereon appear more distinct. Clock 
faces, dials and the scales of thermometers and barometera 
are cases in point, and if the surface be well lacquered with 
white lacquer after being silvered, such a coating is very 
durable. Silvering fluids or powders containing mercury 
should never be used unless the articles are to be afterwards 
exposed to a red heat so as to drive off the mercury. A 
silvering fluid which is very commonly sold to housekeepers 
under the name of NovargerU or Plate Renovator, consists 
merely of nitrate of mercury or quicksilver. When rubbed 
on a copper cent or a brass stair-rod it give^ it at once a 
bright silvery surface, but the brightness soon fades and the 
article, if brass, becomes black and dirty, while if it should 
be a piece of plated ware it will be ruined. Stair-rods and 
similar articles, if well silvered with powder No. 1, and then 
lacquered with good lacquer, will present a white silvery ap- 
pearance for a long time. Plated goodp should be re-coated 
by the electro-plating process. 

iSilveri7ig Powder. — 1. Nitrate of silver, 30 grains ; com- 
mon salt, 30 grains ; cream tartar, 200 grains. Mix. Moisten 
with water and rub on the article with wash leather. Gives 
a white silvery appearance to brass, copper, etc. 

2. Novargent. — Add common salt to a solution of nitrate 
of silver until the silver has all been precipitated. Wash the 
wliite precipitate or chloride of silver and add a strong solu- 
tion of hyposulphite of soda until the white chloride is 
dissolved. Mix the resulting clear liquid with pipe-clay 
which has been finely powdered and thoroughly washed. 

3. 1 oz. of nitrate of silver dissolved in 1 quart of rain 
or distilled water. When thoroughly dissolved, add a few 
crystals of hyposulphite of soda, which will, at firat fonn a 
VrpTyn precipitate, but ^ych j-^disspjves if sufficient hjrpQr 



THE WORKSHOP OOMPANIOlH. 127 

sulphite has been employed. The solution may be used by 
simply dipping a sponge*^in it, and rubbing it over the article 
to be coated. A solution of gold may be made and used in 
the same manner. 

4. Silvering Amalgam. — ^A coating of silver, heavier than 
can be obtained b^ the above, may be given by the follow- 
ing process: Precipitate silver from its solution in nitric 
acid by means of copper. Take of this powder ^ oz, ; common 
salt, 2 oz. ; sal ammoniac, 2 oz. ; and corrosive sublimate, 1 
drachm. Make into a paste with water. Having carefully 
cleaned the copper surface that is to be plated, boil it in a 
solution of tartar and alum, rub it with the above paste^ 
heat red hot and then polish. 

Size. 

The size used for filling the pores of plaster, wood, cloth, 
paper, etc., for the purpose of preparing it to receive paint 
or varnish, is usually made from glue. Where large quanti- - 
ties are used the size is obtained in barrels from the glue 
factory, and as the trouble and expense of concentrating it 
into cakes is thus avoided, it may be obtained at a very cheap 
rate. Size may be made by any one from clippings of skins, 
tendons, etc., boiled down to jelly and carefully freed from 
fat. Very fine size is prepared from parchment clippings. 
Where size is made from glue the following directions will 
prove useful : \ 

Sizing fm" Window Shades. — Stretch the muslin well upon 
the frame. Soak over night one-half pound of the best white 
glue in 4 gallons water ; in the morning turn it off and boil 
the glue. It must be very thin. Add a small piece of castile 
soap soi-aped fine. To have it more transparent add 2 oz. 
powdered alum. It must be put on quick, while warm. 
Gamboge for painting shades must be dissolved in alcohol; 
carmine in spirits of hartshorn. 

Size for Improving Poor Drawing Paper.^-TBke 1 oz. of 
white glue, 1 oz. of white soap, and^ oz. of alum. Soak the 
glue and the soap in water until they appear like jellv ; then 
simmer in 1 quart of water until the whole is meltea. Add 
the alum, simmer again and filter. To be applied hot. 

GM Size. — This is an entirely different article, and is in 
reality a very strong drying oil colored to resemble gold, and 
H8^4 fPT ^^Jftenting gold leaf to aitipjes that 9fXe to be pit. 

_.ized by Google 



128 THE ^.VORKSHOP COMPANION. 

To prepare it, drying or boiled oil is thickened with yellow 
ochre or calcined red ochre, and carefully reduced to the 
utmost smoothness by grinding. It is thinned with oil of 
turpentine. It improves by age. 

Skins— Tanning and Curing. 

Curing Fur Skins. — The following are the directions given 
in the ** Trapper's Guide," by Newhouse, an experienced trap- 
per and hunter. 1. As soon as possible after the animal is 
dead, attend to the skinning and curing. The slightest taint 
of putrefaction loosens the fur and destroys the value of the 
skin. 2. Scrai)e off all superfluous flesh and fat, but be 
careful not to go so deep as to cut the fibre of the skin. 
3. Never dry a skin by the lire or in the sun, but in a cool, 
shady place, sheltered from rain. If you use a bam door for 
a stretcher, nail the skin on the inside of the door. 4. Never 
use ** preparations" of any kind in curing skins, nor even 
wash them in water, but simply stretch and dry them as they 
are taken from the animal. In drying skins it is important 
that they should be stretched tight like a drum-head. 

To prepare Slieep Skins for Mats. — 1. Make a strong soap 
lather with hot water and let it stand till cold ; wash the 
fresh skin in it, carefully squeezing out all the dirt from the 
wool ; wash it in cold water till all the soap is taken out. 
Dissolve a pound each of salt and alum in 2 gallons of hot 
water, and put the skin into a tub sufiicient to cover it ; let 
it soak for 12 hours and hang it over a pole to drain. When 
well drained, stretch it carefully on a boaid to diy, and 
stretch sevei*al times while drying. Before it is quite dry 
sprinkle on the flesh side 1 oz. each of tinely pulverized alum 
and saltpetre, rubbing tliem in well. Try if the wool be firm 
on the skin ; if not, let it remain a day or two, then rub again 
with alum ; fold the flesh sides together and hang in the 
shade for two or three days, turning them over each day till 
quite dry. Scrape the flesh side with a blunt J nife and rub it 
with pumice or rotten stone. Very beautiful mittens can be 
made of lambs' skins prepared in this way. . 

2. The following process has been found to succeed ^ety 
well with sheeji skins, dog skins and similar hides : Tack 
the skin upon a board with the flesh side out, and then scrape 
with a blunt knife ; next rub it over hard with pulverized 
phalk, until it wiU absprb hq wor^. Th^fi i^^ tU^ skiu pff 



Digitized by 



Google 



THE WORKSHOP COMPANION. 129 

from die board and corer it.witii pnlTenzed alum ; double 
ludf-waT over, with the flesh side in contact ; then roll tight 
together and keep dry for three dajs, after which unfold and 
stretch it again on a board or floor, and dry in the air, and it 
will be ready for nse. 

Skins (f 'Babbils, Cats and smaB Animals. — ^Lay the skin 
on a smooth board, the for side nndermost, and &sten it 
down with tinned tacks. Wash it over first with a solution 
of salt ; then dissolve 2} oz. of alum in 1 pint of warm water, 
and with a sponge dip|>ed in this solution, moisten the sur^ 
face all over ; repeat tlus every now and then for three dajs. 
When the skin is quite dry take out the tacks, and roUmg 
it loosely the long way, the hair side in, draw it quickly 
backwards and forwards through a large smooth ring until 
it is quite soft, and then roll it in the contrary way of the 
skin and repeat the operation. Skins prepared in this way 
are useful in many experiments, and they make good gloves 
and chest protectors. 

Stains. 

Stains of different kinds are removed either by dissolving 
the offensive matter out of the material which it has soiled 
or by destroying it. Ordinary washing is a good example of 
the first method ; the removal of fruit stains by means of 
chloride of lime illustrates the second. Sometimes it is 
necessary to combine both methods. In practice it is of 
course necessary to avoid the use of any solvent or bleaching 
agent that can injure the material from which the stain is to 
be removed. The following is a list of the stains which most 
frequently occur, and also of the best methods of removing 
them : 

Aciils. — Most acids produce red stains in all black or blue 
colors of vegetable origin. Wliere the acid has not been so 
strong as to injure the texture of the fabric, such stains may 
be easily removed by the use of a little potash, soda or am- 
monia. Nitric acid, however, not only turns red, but bleaches 
the goods, and it is very difficult to remove stains caused by 
this acid. It is said that the yellow stains formed on brown 
or black woolen goods by nitric acid can be removed, when 
freshly formed, by moistening them repeatedly with a con- 
centrated solution of permanganate of potash, and tlien 
rinsing with vater. Yellow stains on the hands may be 



Digitized by 



Google 



190 THE WORKSHOP COMPANION. 

treated in the same way, and the dark brown coloration prO" 
duced may then be removed by treating with aqueous solution 
of sulphurous acid. 

Aniline Dyes, — ^A solution of common sodium sulphite will 
rapidly remove the stains of tcmsX of the aniline dyes from 
the hands. 

FruU Stains, — ^Most fruits yield juices which, owing to the 
acid they contain, permanently injure the tone of the dye ; 
but the greater part may be removed without leaving a stain, 
if the spot be rinsed in cold water in which a few drops of 
aqua ammonise have been placed, before the spot has dried. 
Wine stains on white materials may be removed by rinsing 
with cold water, applying locally a weak solution of chloride 
of lime, and again rinsing in an abundance of water. Some 
fruit stains yield only to soaping with the hand, followed 
by fumigation with sulphurous acid ; but the latter process 
is inadmissible with certain colored stuflfe. If delicate colors 
are injured by soapy or alkaline matters, the stains must be 
treated with colorless vinegar of moderate strength.* 

Gfrease. — 1. Where the fabric will bear it, the best method 
of removing grease spots is simple washing with soap and 
water. No ordinary grease spot will resist this. 

2. Chalk, fuller's-earth, steatite or "French chalk." These 
should be merely diffused through a little water to form a 
thin paste, which is spread upon the spot, allowed to dry, 
and then brushed out. 

3. Ox-gall and yolk of t^^g, which have the property of 
dissolving fatty bodies witliout affecting prrceptibly the 
texture or colors of cloth. The oxgall should be purified, to 
prevent its greenish tint from degi*ading the brilliancy of 
dyed stuffs, or the purity of whites. Thus prepared it is the 
most effective of all substances known for removing this kind 
of stains, especially for woolen cloths. It is to be diffused 
through its own bulk of water, applied to the spots, rubbed 
well into them with the hands till they disappear, after which 
the stuff is to be washed with soft water. 

4. The volatile oil of turpentine. This will take out only 
recent stains ; for which purpose it ought to be previously 
purified by distillation over quicklime. 

5. Benzme or essence of petroleum is commomy used for 
removing grease spots ; but these liquids present the incon- 
venience of leaving, in most oases, a brownish Hureola, To 



Digitized by 



Google 



THE WOBKSHOP COMPANION. , 131 

avoid this, it is necessary, whilst the fabric is still saturated, 
and immediately the stain has disappeared, to sprinkle gyp- 
sum or lycopodium over the whole of the moistened surface. 
When dry, the powder is brushed away. 

5. Bsdls for removing grease spots are made as follows : 
Take fuller *s-earth, free from all gritty matter ; mix with half 
a pound of the earth, so prepared, half a pound of soda, as 
much soap, and eight yolks of eggs well beaten up with half 
a pound of purified ox-gall. The whole must be triturated 
upon a porphyry slab ; the soda with the soap in the same 
manner as colors are ground, mixing in gradually the eggs 
and the ox-gall previously beaten together. Incorporate next 
the soft earth by slow degrees, till a uniform thick paste be 
formed, which should be made into balls or cakes of a con- 
venient size, and laid out to dry. A little of this detergent 
being scraped off with a knife, made into a paste with water, 
and applied to the stain, will remove it. 

Ink and Iron Mould. — ^Fresh ink and the soluble salts of 
iron produce stains which, if allowed to dry, and especially 
if afterwards the material has been washed, are difficult to 
extract without injury to the ground. When fresh, such 
stains yield rapidly to a treatment with moistened cream. of 
tartar, aided by a little friction, if the material or color is 
delicate. If the ground be white, oxalic acid, employed in 
the form of a concentrated aqueous solution, will effectually 
remove fresh iron stains. 

A concentrated solution of pyrophosphate of soda removes 
many kinds of ink from delicate fabrics without altering the 
coloiing matters printed upon the tissues, or in any way 
injuring them. 

Mildew. — ^Make a very weak solution of chloride of lime in 
water (about a heaped-up teaspoonful to a quart of water) ; 
strain it carefully, and dip the spot on the garment into it ; 
and if the mildew does not disappear immediately, lay it in 
the sun for a few minutes, or dip it ag)»in into the solution. 
The work is effectually ani si)eedily doue, and the chloride 
of lime neither rots the cloth nor removes ^delicate colors, 
when sufficiently diluted, and thd articles well rinsed after- 
ward in clear water. 

Another method is to wet the spot in lemon juice, then 
spread over it soft soap and chalk mixed together, and spread 
where the hottest rays of the sun will beat upon it for half 



Digitized by 



Google 



132 THE WORKSHOP COMPANION. 

c 
an hour ; if not entirely removed repeat the same. Or wet 
in clear lemon juice and la^ in the son; or soak for an 
hour or two, and then spread in the snn. 

Nitrate of Silter. — ^Nitrate of silver, it will be remembered, 
is the base of most of the so-called indelible inks used for 
marking linen in almost every household. Stains or marks 
of any kind made with silver solution or the bath solution of 
pliotographers may be promptly removed from clothing bjr 
simply wetting the stain or mark with a solution of bi- 
chloride of mercury. The chemical result is the change of 
the black-looking nitrate of silver into chloride of silver,^ 
which is white or invisible on the cloth. Bichloride of mer- 
cury can be had at the drug stores. It is slightly soluble in 
water, is a rank poison, and we would not advise anybody to 
keep it about one's house. 

The immediate and repeated application of a very weak 
solution of cyanide of potassium (accompanied by thorough 
rinsings in clean water), will generally remove tnese stains 
without injurjr to the colors. 

Paint — Stains of oil-paint may "be removed with bisulphide 
of carbon ; many by means of spirits of turpentine ; if dry 
and old, with chloroform. For these last, as well as for tar- 
spots, the best way is to cover them with olive oil or butter. 
When the paint is softened, the whole may be removed by 
ti'eatment, iirst, with spirits of turpentine, tlien with benzine. 

Tar, — Tar and pitch produce stains easily removed by suc- 
cessive applications of spirits of turpentine, coal-tar naphtha, 
and benzine. If they are very old and hard, it is well to 
soften them by lightly rubbing with a pledget of wool 
dipped in good olive oil. The softened mass will then easily 
yield to the action of the other solvents. Kesins, varnishes 
and sealing wax may be removed by warming and applying 
strong alcohol. Care must always be taken that, in rubbing 
the material to remove the stains, the friction shall be ap- 
plied the way of the stuff, and not indifferently backwards and 
forwards. 

Steel— Working and Tempering. 

Most workmen find themselves, at times, compelled to 
forge and temper their o^vn tools, such as diills, cold chisels, 
ete. The following hints will be of service : 

Forging Steel. — ^Beware of over-heating the piece to be 



Digitized by 



Google 



THE WOEKSHOP COMPANION. 183 

forged, and also be careful that the fire is free from stdphur. 
Small drills are easily heated in the flame of a lamp or 
candle ; a Bnnsen burner will heat sufficiently quite a good 
sized tool. Charcoal makes the best fire for all kinds of tools. 
If you are compelled to use common bituminous coal let the 
fire bum until most of the sulphur has been driven off. Do 
not hammer with heavy blows after the steel has cooled. By 
tapping it lightly, however, until it becomes black, the close- 
ness of the grain is increased. 

To Restw^e burnt Cast Sted. — Heat it to a bright cherry red 
and quench it in water. Do this a few times and then forge 
it carefully, and it will be nearly as good as before. The 
various recipes for mixtures for restoring burnt steel are 
worthless. 

Hardening and Tempering Steel, — Heat the steel to a bright 
cherry fed and plunge it in water that has been thoroughly 
boiled and then allowed to cool. It will then be ** as hard as 
fire and water will make it," and too hard for anything 
except hardened bearings, or tools for cutting and billing 
glass and very hard metals. 

Where very hard tools are required, as, for example, for 
cutting steel or glass, mercurv is the best liquid for harden- 
ing stoel tools. The best steel, when forged into shape and 
hardened in mercury, will cut almost anything. We have 
seen articles made from ordinary steel, which have been 
hardened and tempered to a deep straw color, turned with 
comparative ease with cutting tools, from good tool steel 
hardened in mercury. 

To make it stand work without breaking, it must be 
tempered To do this, polish the surface on a grindstone or 
with emery paper, so that any change in the color of the 
metal may be easily seen. Then heat the tool until the cut- 
ting edge shows the proper color, as given below. Large 
drills and cold chisels are hardened and tempered at one opera- 
tion, the cutting edge being cooled and hardened while the 
upi>er part is left hot. When taken from the water the heat 
from the shank passes towards the cutting edge and brings 
it to the right degree of softness. Small drills may be best 
tempered in the flame of a lamp. A spirit lamp is best, 
and the neatest plan is to heat the drill a short distance 
fi-om the point and allow the heat to flow towards the cutting 
edge. As soon as the right color is seen on the edge, the 

Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



134 THE WORKSHOP COMPANIOK. 

entire tool is plunged in water and cooled. In this -way the 
shank is kept soft and the tool is not so apt to snap off. 

The following are the degrees of heat (Fahrenheit) and 
corresponding colors to which tools for different purposes 
should be brought ; 

Temperature, Color, Temper. 

430° Very faint yellow. ) Very hard ; suitable for hammer 

460° Pale straw color. J faces, drills for stone, etc. 

470° Full yeUow. ^^^^ ^^^. ^''^^f^' 5 .suitable for 

490° Bro\ra C ^^®*^» scissors, turning tools for 

) hard metal, etc. 
510° Brown with purple ) Suitable for tools for cutting 
spots. >-wood and soft metals, such as 

538° Purple. ) plane irons, knives, etc. 

(For tools requuing strong cut- 
ting edges without extreme hard- 
ness; as cold chisels, axes,cutlei'y, 
etc. 

^ ^'Stn^^r^" } Spring temper ; saws, swords. 

To Temper Steel on one Edge. — ^Red hot lead is an excellent 
thing in which to heat a long plate of steel that requires 
softening or tempering on one edge. The steel need only to 
be heated at the part required, and there is little danger of 
the metal warping or springing. By giving sufficient time, 
thick portions may be heated equally with thin parts. . The 
ends of wire springs that are to be bent or riveted may be 
softened for that purpose by this process, after the springs 
have been hardened or tempered. 

Blazing Off. — Saws and springs are generally hardened in 
various compositions of oil, suet, wax and other ingredients, 
which, however, lose their hardening property after a few 
weeks constant use ; the saws are heated in long furnaces, 
and then immersed horizontally and edgewise in a long trough 
containing the composition ; two troughs are commonly used, 
the one until it gets too warm, then the other for a period, 
and so on alternately. Part of the composition is wiped oil 
the saws with a piece of leather, when they are removed 
from the trough, and they are heated, one by one, over a 



Digitized by 



Google 



THE WOBKSHOP CX)MPANION. 1^ 

clea^ coke fire, until the grease inflames ; this iu called 
"bLzingoff." 

The comi>osition used by an experienced saw maker is two 
j)<)iin(ls of suet and a quarter of a pound of beeswax to eveiy 
pillon of whale oil ; these are boiled together, and will serve 
f«>i' thin works and most kinds of steel. The addition of 
black resin, to the extent of about one pound to the gallon, 
makes it serve for thicker pieces, and for those it refused to 
harden before ; but the resin should be added with judgment, 
or the works will become too hard and brittle. The compo- 
sition is useless when it has been constantly employed for 
about a month ; the period depends, however, on the extent 
to which it is used, and the trough should be thoroughly 
cleansed out before new mixture is placed in it. 

The following recipe is recommended : Twenty gallons of 
spermaceti oil ; twenty pounds of beef suet, rendered ; one 
gallon of neatsfoot oil ; one pound of pitch ; three pounds 
of black resin. 

These last two articles must be previously melted together, 
and then added to the other ingredients ; when the whole 
must be heated in a proper iron vessel, with a close cover 
fitted to it, until the moisture is entirely evaporated, and the 
composition will take fire on a flaming body being presented 
to its surface, but which must be instantly extinguished 
again by putting on the cover of the vessel. 

Whexx the saws are wanted to be rather hard, but little of 
the grease is burned off; when milder, a larger portion ; 
and for a spring temper, the whole is allowed to bum away. 

When the work is thick, or irregularly thick and thin, as 
in some springs, a second and third dose is burned off, to 
insure equality of temper at all parts alike. 

Gun-lock springs are sometimes literally fried in oil for 
a considerable time over a fire in an iron tray ; the thick 
pai*ts are then sure to be sufficiently reduced, and the thin 
parts do not become the more softened from the continuance 
of the blazing heat. But for ordinary steel articles which 
are requu*ed to be soft, tough and springy, the usual plan is 
to harden and then dip them in any coarse oil, and heat 
tJiem over the fire until the oil blazes. 

Springs and saws appear to lose their elasticity, after 
hardening and tempering, fi-om the reduction and friction 
they undergo in grinding and polishing. Toward the oonolu- 



Digitized by 



Google 



13fi THE WORKSHOP COMPANION. 

sion of the mamifacture, the elasticity of the saw is restored) 
principally by hammering, and partly by heating it over a 
clear coke fire to a straw color ; the tint is removed by veiy 
diluted mui-iatic acid, after which the saws are well washed 
in plain water and dried. 

Welding Steel. — ^As we have already stated in the article on 
IroTif welding is in reality a species of autogenous soldering. 
And, as in soldering or brazing, it is necessary to keep the 
surfaces that are to be united, free from dirt and oxide, so in 
welding, the surfaces must be perfectly clean or the joint will 
be imperfect. In welding common iron, sand is thfe flux 
genersdly used. When it is required to weld steel to iron, 
the steel must be heated to a less degree than the iron, as it 
is the most fusible. The surfaces should be thoroughly 
cleaned before they are brought together. Sal ammoniac 
cleans the dirt from the steel, and borax causes the oxide to 
fuse before it attains that heat which will burn the steel ; 
consequently, a mixture of these two substances forms one of 
the best materials for welding. 

The best mode of preparing this mixture is as follows : 
Take ten parts of borax and one part of sal ammoniac and 
grind them together. Then melt them together, and when 
cold reduce the mbcture to fine powder, and preseirve in a 
well-stopped jar or bottle. 

To Blue Steel. — The mode employed in bluing steel is 
merely to subject it to heat. The dark blue is produced at a 
temperature of 600°, the full blue at 500°, and the blue at 
550°. The steel must be finely polished on its surface, and 
then exposed to a uniform degree of heat. Accordingly, 
there are three ways of coloring ; first, by a flame producing 
no soot, as spirits of wine ; secondly, by a hot plate of iron ; 
and thirdly, by wood ashes. As a very regular degree of heat 
is necessary, wood ashes for fine work are to be prefeiTed. 
The work must be covered over with them, and carefully 
watched ; when the color is sufficiently heightened, the \7ork 
is perfect. 

To Blue Small Steel Articles. — Make a box of sheet iron ; 
fill it with sand and subject it to a steady heat. The articles 
to be blued must be finished and well jjolished. Immerse 
the articles in the sand, keeping watch of them until they 
are of the right color, when they should be taken out aaSl 
immersed in oil. 



Digitized by 



Google 



THE WORKSHOP COMPANION. 137 

Sulphur. 

Sulpliur or brimstone is a well-known yellow substance 
largely used in the manufacture of matches, gunpowder and 
sulphuric acid. Aside from these uses, which are of interest 
only to large manufacturers, sulphur is employed for bleach- 
ing, disinfecting, making moulds for plaster casts, and as a 
cement for fastening iron bars in stone sockets. 

Sulphur, when burned, produces sulphurous acid, a gas 
which des^oys most vegetable colors and the germs of most 
diseases. As a bleaching agent it is sometimes to be prefen*ed 
to chlorine, as it does not injure the fabrics so much. The 
method of using it is to hang the articles to be bleached in 
a large box or closet in which the sulphur is afterwards 
burned. The easiest way to bum the sulphur is to dip 
heavy brown paper in melted sulphur, and bum the matches 
thus produced. In this way the sulphur is exposed to the 
air sufficiently to cause it to continue to burn when once 
ignited. Another very good plan is to place the sulphur on 
a block of iron or brick which has been previously heated to 
above the melting point of sulphur. The sulphur, if then 
ignited, will continue to burn freely, but it is almost im- 
possible to get a cold mass of sulphur to bum freely. 

The same method answers for disinfecting rooms, and 
sulphurous acid vapors are the least injurious and most easily 
procured of all our disinfectants. The National Board of 
Health, in their recent "Instructions for Disinfection," say 
that ** fumigation with sulphur is the only practicable method 
for disinfecting the house. For this purpose the rooms to 
be disinfected must be vacated. Heavy clothing, blankets, 
bedding, etc., should be opened and exposed during the 
fumigation. Close the rooms as tightly as possible, ignite the 
sulphur, and allow the room to remain closed for twenty-four 
hours. For a room about ten feet square at least two pounds of 
sulphur should be used ; for larger rooms, proportionally in- 
creased quantities. " Of course in making arrangements for 
burning the sulphur great care must be exercised so as not to 
set the floor on fire. Safety is best secured by placing the 
burning sulphur over a- tub of water or a considerable heap 
of sand or soil. 

In making moulds for taking plaster casts, the sulphur 
must be rendered plastic. This is an extraordinary properiy 
possessed by this material, and one known only to chem^'^ 

ogle 



138 THE WORKSHOP COMPANION. 

and experts. When sulphur is melted and poured into water, 
instead of becoming hard it remains quite soft like dough, 
and in this state it may be pressed into the most minute 
crevices of a medal or other object, so as to take a perfect 
mould of it. From this mould plaster casts or electrotypes 
may be taken. After a short time the siUphur returns to its 
original hard, yellow, brittle condition. 

As a cement for fastening iron rods in the holes sunk in 
stones, as in the gratings of windows and the iron work of 
fences, sulphur is now extensively lised instead of lead. To 
pure sulphur, however, there is this very strong objection that 
it is exceedingly brittle and is readily fractured, and even 
reduced to coarse powder by sudden changes of temperature. 
We have seen a huge roll of sulphur broken simply by the 
heat of the hand. This may be avoided, in a measure, by 
mixing the melted sulphur with some inert powder like sand. 
Iron filings have also been mixed with it for the purpose. 

Tin. 

Tin is a brilliant, silvery-white metal. It is very malleable, 
but its power to resist tensile strains is so small that it is not 
very ductile. When bent it emits a peculiar crackling sound, 
arising from the destruction of cohesion amongst its particles. 
When a bar of tin is rapidly bent backwards and forwards 
several times successively, it becomes so hot that it cannot 
be held in the hand. 

Tin is acted upon by caustic alkalies (potash and soda), 
but resists the acids of fruit, etc. ; hence its use for coating 
iron so as to prevent corrosion and rust. Tin plate is sheet 
iron which has been coated with tin. To apply the tin the 
iron must be heated, and this is apt, in some cases, to injure 
the articles to be tinned, as it softens the iron, or in other 
words draws its temper. The process described under the 
head "Iron," page 70, enables us to avoid this difficulty. 

Tin forms alloys with various metals, those of lead and 
copper being best known. That with lead is known as solder 
and pewter (see under these heads^; that with copper is 
bronze, gun metal or "composition. 

Tin and iron may be fused together in all proportions, 
forming apparently homogeneous alloys. Berthier describes 
one containing 35-1 per cent, of tin, and another containing 
50 per cent, of tin, both being very brittle and capable of 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



THE WORKSHOP COMPANION. 189 

being reduced to an impalpable powder. The affinity of iron 
for tin is also well illusti*ated in common tin plate, which is 
nothing more than sheet iron superficially combined with 
tin, to which a further quantity adheres v.ithout being in 
combination. The alloy of tin and iron upon the plate, how- 
ever, is so thin that it can easily be remove<l by mechanical 
friction, and the amount of tin thus alloyed is i)robably not 
much larger than one-half of one per cent. Tin, when added 
to pig iron, imparts to it a steel-like texture of fine grain and 
great hardness without very great brittleness. Such iron is 
easily fused, and gives a sound like a bell. Indeed, in the 
Great International Exhibition of 1851, there was a large 
bell of cast iron stated to be alloyed with a small proportion 
of tin. According to Karsten, pig iron with one per cent, of 
tin yields a somewhat cold-short wrought iron with about 
0*19 per cent, of tin. Such iron, it is stated, works well 
under the hammer, but at a white heat white vapors escape. 
With more tin, the iron in welding gave much waste and 
produced cold-short iron, with a fine, white and dull grain. 
For specific purposes, however, especially where great hard- 
ness is required, iron with a small amount of tin, not exceed- 
ing 0*3 per cent, seems to be well adapted. Sterling, in 
England, hardens the tops of rails with tin, and according to 
a repoi-t of the English Commission for testing iron in regard 
to its adaptability for railroad purposes, the best Dundyvan 
bar iron, if alloyed with 0*22 per cent, of tin, supported, 
without breaking, a weight of 23*39 tons to the square inch. 
Ott fused wrought iron with 5 per cent, of tin, and arrived 
at results similar to those of Karaten. Whilst at a welding 
heat it worked very well, the smith stating that it was some 
of the toughest iron he had ever worked. The grain was 
found to be fine and steel-like, with strong lustre and bright 
color. 

Varnish. 

It is in general more economical to buy varnishes than to 
make them on tha small scale. Occasionally, however, our 
readers may find themselves in a situation where a simple 
recipe for a good varnish will prove valuable. We give a few 
recipes which are easilv followed, and which will undoubtedly 
prove useful in special cases. 

Basket Ware^ Varnish for, — The following viw:iuah for 



Digitized by 



Google 



140 THE WORKSHOP COMPANION. 

basket iTork is said to dry raj)idly, to possess sufficient 
elasticity, and to be applicable with or without admixture of 
color : Heat 375 grains of good linseed oil on a sand bath 
until it becomes stringy, and a drop placed on a cold, 
inclined surface does not run ; then add gradually 7,500 
grains of copal oil varnish, or any other copal varnish. As 
considerable efiEervescence takes place, a large vessel is neces- 
sary. The desired consistency is given to it, when cold, by 
addition of oil of turpentine. 

Black Varnish for Optical Work. — The external surfaces 
of brass and iron are generally blacked or bronzed with 
compositions given under the head of lacquers. The insides 
of the tubes of telescopes and microscopes should be coated 
with a dead black varnish so as to absorb the light and pre- 
vent any glare. The varnish that is generally used for this 
purpose consists of lampblack, made liquid by means of a 
very thin solution of shellac in alcohol, 'but such varnish, even 
when laid on warm metal, is very apt to scale off and thus 
produce two serious evils — the exposure of the bright metal- 
lic surface and the deposit of specks on the lenses. It will 
therefore be found that lampblack, carefully ground in tur- 
pentine, to which about a fifth of its volume of gold size or 
boiled linseed oil has been added, will adhere much more 
firmly. The metal should be warm when the varnish is ap- 
plied. Care must be taken not to use too much gold size, 
otherwise the effect will be a bright black instead of a dead 
black. 

Black Vamish for Cast Iron. — 1. For those objects to 
which it is applicable one of the best black varnishes is ob- 
tained by applying boiled linseed oil to the iron, the latter 
being heated to a temperature that will just char or blacken 
the oil. The oil seems to enter into the pores of the iron, 
and after such^n application the metal resists rust and cor- 
rosive agents very perfectly. 

2. Fuse 40 oz. of asphaltum and add i a gallon of boiled 
linseed oil, 6 oz. red lead, 6 oz. litharge, and 4= oz. sulphate 
of zinc, dried and powdered. Boil for two hours and mix in 
8 oz. fused dark amber gum and a pint of hot linseed oil, 
and boil again for two hours more. When the mass has 
thickened withdraw the heat and thin down with a gallon of 
turpentine. 

Gfreen V(tmish, — ^There is a most beautiful transparent 



Digitized by 



Google 



THE WORKSHOP COMPANION. 141 

green varnish employed to give a fine glittering color to gilt 
or other decorated works. As the preparation of this varnish 
is very little known, an account of it may in all probability 
prove of interest to many of our readers. The process is as 
follows ; Grind a small quantity of a peculiar pigment called 
"** Chinese blue," along with about double the quantity of 
finely-powdered chromate of potash, and a sufficient quantity 
of copal varnish thinned with turpentine. The mixture re- 
.;juires the most elaborate grinding or incorporating of its 
ingredients, otherwise it will not be transparent, and there- 
fore useless for the purpose for which it is intended. The 
** tone" of the color may be varied by an alteration in the 
proportion of the ingredients. A preponderance of chromate 
of potash causes a yellowish shade in the green, as might 
have been expected, and vice ve7^sa with the blue under the 
same circumstances. This colored varnish will produce a 
very striking effect in japanned goods, paper hangings, etc., 
and can be made at a very cheap rate. 

Ii'on Work, Brigld Varnish for. — ^Dissolve 3 lbs. of resin in 
10 pints boiled linseed oil, and add 2 lbs. of turpentine. 

Map Varnish. — Clear Canada balsam, 4 oz.; turpentine, 
8 oz. Warm gently and shake until dissolved. Maps, draw- 
ings, etc., which are to be varnished with this solution, 
should be first brushed over with a solution of isinglass and 
allowed to dry thoroughly. 

Mastic. — Mastic, 6 ozr; turpentine, 1 quart. Tough, hard, 
biilliant and colorless. Excellent for common woodwork. 

Metals — Bright, Varnish for. — In order to make alcoholic 
varnish adhere more firmly to polished metallic surfaces, A. 
Morell adds one part of pure crystallized boracic acid to 200 
parts of the varnish. Thus prepared it adheres so firmly to the 
metal that it cannot be scratched off with the finger nail ; it ap- 
pears, in fact, like a glaze. If more boracic acid is added than 
above recommended the varnish loses its intensity of color. 

Paintings, Varnish for. — A good varnish can be made as 
follows : Mastic, six ounces ; pure turpentine, one-half 
ounce ; camphor, two drachms ; spirits of turpentine, nine- 
teen ounces ; add first the camphor to the turpentine. The 
mixture is made in a water-bath, and when the solution is 
effected, add the mastic and the spirits of turpentine near 
fche end of the operation, then filter through a cotton dpflu 
Ihe varnish shoiild be laid on very carefully. 



Digitized by 



Google 



142 THE WORKSHOP COMPANION. 

Rust, Varnish for Preventing. — A vamisli for this pui*posG 
may l)o made of 120 parts resin, 180 sandarac, 50 giimlac. 
They should be heat(Hl giadually until melted, and thor- 
oughly mixed, then 120 parts turpentine added, and sub- 
sequently, after further heating, 180 parts rectified alcohol. 
After careful liltration, it should be put into tightly-corked" 
bottles. 

Shelldc Varnish. — ^Dissolve good shellac or seed lac in 
alcohol, making the varnish of any consist-en ce desired. 
Note. — Shellac gives a pale cinnamon colored varaish. 
Varnish made with seed lac is deeper colored and redder. 
If colorless varnish is desired use bleached shellac, an article 
which is to be had at most drug stores. 

Toi'toise Shell Japan. — Take good linseed oil, one gallon ; 
amber, one-half pound ; boil together until the fluid is brown 
and thick. Then strain through a cloth and boil again until 
of consistency of pitch, when it is fit for use. Having i^re- 
l)ared this varnish well, clean the article to be japanned, and 
then brush the parts over with vermillion mixed with shellac 
varnish, or with drying oil diluted with turpentine. Wh(ai 
this coat is dry, brush the whole with the amber vamisli 
diluted fco a proper consistency with turpentine, and then, 
when set firm, put the article into a hot stove to undergo heat 
for as long a time as required to produce the desired effect. 
In some instances as much as two weeks may be required, 
after which finish in an annealing oven. 

Turpentine Varnish. — Clear pale resin, 5 lbs.; turpentine, 
7 lbs. Dissolve in any convenient vessel. 

Vofrnishfor Violins and simikn* articles. — Sandarach, 6 oz. ; 
mastic, 3 oz. ; turpentine varnish, one-half pint ; alcohol 1 
gallon. Keep in a tight tin can in a warm place until the 
gums are dissolved. 

Varnish for Replacing Turpentine and Linseed Oil Paints. — 
Fr. Theis, of Bissendorf, prepares a varaish consisting of 100 
parts of resin, 20 parts of crystallized carbonate of soda, and 
50 parts of water, by heating these substances together and 
mixing them with a solution of 24 parts of strong liquor 
ammonia in 250 parts of water. With the mass thus obtained 
the pigments are levigated without the addition of linseed 
oil or turpentine ; the paint dries readily without the aid of 
a drier and looks veiy well, especially when varnished. The 
paint keeps well, even under water, and becomes very hafd^ 



Digitized by 



Google 



THE WORKSHOP OOMPANION. ' 143 

The cost is said to be about one-third that of ordinary oil 
paints. 

WJtitej Hard Varnish for Wood br Metal. — Mastic, 2 oz.; 
sandarach, 8 oz. ; elemi, 1 oz. ; Strasbourg or Scio turpentine, 
4 oz. : alcohol, 1 quart. 

White Varnish for Paper, Wood or Linen, — Sandarach, 
8 oz. ; mastic, 2 oz. ; Canada balsam, 4 oz. ; alcohol, 1 quart. 

White Spirit Varnish. — Bectified spirit, 1 gallon ; gum 
sandarach, 2 J lbs. Put these ingredients into a tin bottle, 
warm gently and shake till dissolved. Then add a pint of 
pale turpentine varnish. 

Wood, Parisian Varnish for. — To prepare a good varnish 
for fancy woods, dissolve one part of good shellac in' three to 
four parts of alcohol of 92 per cent, in a water-bath, and 
cautiously add distilled water until a curdy mass separates 
out, which is collected and pressed between linen; the liquid 
is filtered through paper, all the alcohol removed by distilla- 
tion from the water bath, and the resin removed and dried at 
100' centigrade until it ceases to lose weight ; it is then 
dissolved in double its weight of alcohol of at least 96 
per cent., and the solution perfumed with lavender oil. 

Wood — trained. Varnish for. — ^A solution of four ounces of 
sandarac, one ounce gum mastic, and four ounces shellac, in 
one pound of alcohol, to which two ounces oil of turpentine 
is added, can be recommended as a varnish over stained 
woods. 

Varnishing. 

Before beginning to varnish, it is necessary that the 
surfftce to which it is to be applied, should be perfectly 
free from all grease and smoke stains, for it will be found 
if this is not attended to, the varnish will not dry hard. 
If the varnish is to be applied to old articles, it is necessary 
to wash them very carefuUy with soap and water before ap- 
plying it. When it is wished that the varnish should dry 
quickly and hard, it is necessary to be careful that the var- 
uisli should always be kept as long a time as possible before 
being used ; and also that too high a temperature has not 
been used in manufacturing the varnish employed. It is 
likewise customary, when it can be done, to expose the article 
to the atmosphere of a heated room. This is called stoving 
it, and is found to greatly improve the appearance of the 

Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



144 THE WORKSHOP CX)MPANION. 

work, as well as io cause the varnish to dry quickly. After 
the surface is varnished, to remove all the marks left by the 
bjrush, it is usually carefully x>olished with finely-powdered 
pumice stone and water. Afterwards, to give the surface the 
greatest polish it is capable of receiving, it is rubbed over 
with a clean soft rag, on the surface of which a mixture of 
very finely powdered tripoli and oil has been applied. The 
surface is afterwards cleaned with a soft rag and powdered 
starch, and the last polish is given with the palm of the hand. 
This method is, however, only employed when those varnishes 
are used which, when dry, become sufficiently hard to admit 
of it. 

A good surface may be produced on unpainted wood by 
the following treatment : Glass-paper the wood thoroughly as 
for French polishing, size it, and lay on a coat of varnish, 
veiy thin, with a piece of sponge or wadding covered with a 
piece of linen rag. When dry, rub down with pumice dust, 
and apply a second coat of varnish. Three or four coats 
should produce a surface almost equal to French polish, if 
the varnish is good and the pumice dust be well applied 
between each coat. The use of a sponge or wadding instead 
of a brush aids in preventing the streaky appearance usually 
caused by a brush in the hands of an unskilled person. 

When varnish is laid on a piece of cold furniture or a cold 
carriage-body, even after it has been spread evenly and with 
dispatch, it will sometimes "crawl" and roll this way and 
that way as if it were a liquid possessing vitality and the power 
of locomotion. It is sometimes utterly impossible to varnish 
an article at all satisfactorily during cold weather and in a 
cold apartment. In cold and damp weather a carriage, chair 
or any other article to be varnished should be kept in a clean 
and warm apartment where there is no dust flying, until the 
entire woodwork and iron-work have been warmed through 
and through, to a temperature equal to that of summer heat- 
say eighty degrees. That temperature should be maintained 
day and night. If a fire is kept for only eight or ten hours 
during the day, the furniture will be cold, even in a warm 
paint-room. Before any varnish is applied, some parts of the 
surface which may have been handled frequently, should be 
rubbed with a woolen cloth dipped in spirits of turpentine, 
so as to remove any greasy, oleaginous matter which may 
have accumulated. Table-beds, backs of chairs, and fronts 



Digitized by 



Google 



THE WORKSHOP OOMPANIOK. U5 

of btLrean drawers are sometimes so thoroughly glazed over 
that varnish will not adhere to the surface, any more than 
water will lie smoothly on recently painted casings. Tha 
varnish should also be warm — ^not hot — and it should bo 
npread quickly and evenly. As soon as it flows from the 
brush readily and spreads evenly, and before it commences 
to set, let the rubbing or brushing cease. Oae can always 
do a better job by laving on a coat of medium heaviness, 
rather than a very light coat or a covering so heavy that the 
varnish will hang down in ridges. Varnish mustbe of the 
proper consistency, in order to flow just right and to set 
with a smooth surface. If it is either too thick or too thin 
one cannot do a neat job. 

When it is wished to varnish drawings, engravings, or 
other paper articles, it is usual to give them a coat of size 
before applying the varnish. For the preparation of Size see 
article under that head. 

To Restore Spotted Varnish. — ^If the varnish has been 
blistered by heat or corroded by strong acids, the only 
remedy is to scrape or sandpaper the article and revamisli. 
Spots may often be removed by the following process : Make 
a mixture of equal parts of linseed oil, alcohol and turpentine, 
sligkUy moisten a rag with it, and rub the spots until they 
disappear. Then polish the spot with ordinary blotting 
paper. Varnish injured by heat can hardly be restored in 
any other way than by removing it and applying a fresh 
coat. 

Voltaic Batteries. 

In every kind of battery it is essential that the connections 
be bright, and that the metal surfaces which are to be united 
should be brought together under considerable pressure. 
Those batteries which depend for contact upon light springs, 
and the mere placing of wires in holes, lose a great deal of 
available power. The surfaces ought invariably to be filed 
bright and pressed together by means of screws. We have 
frequently seen the action of the batteries used for medical 
purposes entirely stopped by a thin film of oxide. 

The zincs also should always be thoroughly amalgamated to 
prevent waste. When the zincs are new and uncorroded, 
amalgamation is an easy process. Dip the zincs in dilute 
gxdphuho acid (8 parts water and 1 of acid), and rub them 



Digitized by 



Google 



14B THE WOEKSttO^ tJOMPAKlON. 

with mercury. The mercury will adhere quite readily and 
render the entire surface brilliant and silvery. But when the 
zincs are old and corroded it will be found that the mercuiy 
does not adhere to some parts. In such cases wash the sur^ 
face of the zinc with a solution of nitrate of mercury and it 
will become coated with amalgam. Once the surface is 
touched, it is easy to add as much mercury as may be desired 
by simply rubbing on the liquid metal. 

The coating of mercury adds greatly to the durability of 
the zincs, as when so prepared the acid will not act on them 
except when the current is passing, and from the excellent 
condition of the entire surlftce the power of the battery is 
greatly increased. 

Watch— Care of. 

1. Wind your watch as nearly as possible at same hour 
every day. 2. Be careful that the key is in good condition, as 
there is much danger of injuring the works when the key is 
worn or cracked ; there are more main springs and chains 
broken through a jerk in winding than from any other cause, 
which injury will sooner or later be the result if the key be 
in bad order. 3. As all metals contract by cold and expand 
by heat, it must be manifest that to keep the watch as nearly 
as possible at one temperature, is a necessary piece of att<3n- 
ti >ii. 4. Keep the watch as constantly as possible in one 
position, that is, if it hangs by day let it hang by night, 
against something soft. 5. The hands of a pocket chronom- 
eter or duplex watch should never be set backwards ; in other 
watches this a matter of no consequence. 6. The glass 
should never be opened in watches which set imd regulate at 
the back. One or two directions more it is of vital importance 
that you bear in mind. On regulating a watch, should it be 
fast, move the regulator a trifle towards the slow ; and if 
going slow, do the reverse ; you cannot move the regulator 
too slightly or too gently at a time, and the only inconven- 
ience that can arise is having to perform the operation more 
than once. On the contrary, if you move the regulator too 
much at a time, you will be as far, if not further than ever, 
from attaining your object, so that you may repeat the move- 
ment until quite tired and disappointed, stoutly blaming 
both watch and watchmaker, whUe the fault is entirely yoni- 
own. Again, you cannot be too careful in respect oi the 



Digitized by 



Google 



THE WOUKSHOP COMPANION. lil 

nature and condition of your watoh-pocket ; see that it bo 
made of something soft and pliant, such as wash-leather, 
which is the best, and also that there be no line or nap that 
may be torn off when taking the watch out of the pocket 
Cleanliness, too. is as needful here as in the key before wind- 
ing ; for, if there be dust or dirt in either instance, it will, 
you may rely upon it, work its way into the watch, as well 
as wear away the engine-turning of the case. 

Waterproofing. 

Porous goods are made waterproof according to two veiy 
distinct systems. According to the first the articles are made 
absolutely impervious to water and air by having their pores 
filled up with some oily or gummy substance, which becomes 
stiff and impenetrable. Caoutchouc, paints, oils, melted wax, 
etc. , are of this kind. The other system consists in making 
the fabric repellent to water, while it remains quite porous 
and freely admits the passage of air. Goods so prepared 
will resist any ordinary rain, and we have seen a very porous 
fabric stretched over the mouth of a vessel and resist the 
passage of water one or two inches deep. The following 
recipes have been tried and found good. Most of those found 
in the recipe books are worthless. 

To Render Leallier Waterproof, — 1. Melt together 2 oz. of 
Burgundy pitch, 2 oz. of soft wax, 2 oz. of turpentine, and 1 
pint of raw linseed oil. Lay on with a brush while warm. 

2. Melt 3 oz. lard and add 1 oz. powdered resin. This 
mixture remains soft at ordinary temperatures, and is an ex- 
cellent application for leather. 

WcUei^-proqf Canvas far Covering Carts, etc. — ^9^ gallons 
linseed oil, 1 lb. litharge, 1 lb. umber, boiled together for 24 
hours. May be colored with any paint. Lay on with a 
brush. 

To Make Sailcloth Impervious to Waler, and yet Pliant 
and Durable. — Grind 6 lbs. English ochre with boiled oil, and 
add 1 lb. of black paint, which mixture forms an indifferent 
black. An ounce of yellow soap, dissolved by heat in half a 
pint of water, is mixed while hot with the paint. This com- 
position is laid upon dry canvas as stiff as can conveniently 
be done with the brush. Two days after, a second coat of 
ochre and black paint (without any soapj is laid on, and, 
allowing this coat time to dry, the canvas is finished with a 



Digitized by 



Google 



148 THE WORKSHOP COMPANION. 

coat of any desired color. After three days it does not stick 
together when folded up. This is the formula used in the 
British navy yards, and it has given excellent results. We 
have seen a portable boat made of canvas prepared in this 
wav and stretched on a skeleton frame. 

Metallic Soap for Canvas. — The following is highly recom- 
mended as a cheap and simple process for coating canvas for 
wagon tops, tents, awnings, etc. It renders it impermeable 
to moisture, without making it stiff and liable to break. 
Soft soap is to be dissolved in hot water, and a solution of 
sulphate of iron added. The sulphuric acid combines with 
the potash of the soap, and the oxide of iron is precipitated 
with the fatty acid as insoluble iron soap. This is washed 
and dried, and mixed with linseed oil. The soap prevents 
the oil from getting hard and cracking, and at the same time 
water has no effect on it. 

The following recipes are intended to be applied to woven 
fabrics, which they leave quite pervious to air but capable 
of resisting water. 

1. Apply a strong solution of soap, not mere soap suds, to 
the wrong side of the cloth, and when diy wash the other 
side with a solution of alum. 

2. The following recipe is substantially the same as the 
preceding, but if carefully followed in its details gives better 
results : 

Take the material successively through baths of sulphate 
of alumina, of soap and of water ; then dry and smother or 
calender. For the alumina bath, use the ordinaiy neutral 
sulphate of alumina of commerce (concentrated alum cake), 
dissolving 1 part in 10 of water, which is easily done without 
the application of heat. The soap is best prepared in this 
manner : Boil 1 part of light resin, 1 part of soda crystals, 
and 10 of water, till the resin is dissolved ; salt the soap out 
by the addition of one-third part of common salt ; dissolve 
this soap with an equal amount of good palm oil soap (navy 
soap) in 30 parts of water. The soap bath should be kept 
hot while the goods are j^assing through it. It is best to have 
three vats along side of each other, and by a special arrange- 
ment to Jceep the goods down in the baths. Special care 
should be taken to have the fabric thoroughly soaked in the 
alumina bath. 

3. Prs. Hager and Jacobsen remark that auring the last 



Digitized by 



Google 



. TEE WOBKSHO^ COMPANION. 149 

few years very good and cliv>f»p waterproof goods of this de- 
Bcription have been manufactured in Berlin, which they 
believe is effected by steeping them first in a bath of sulphate 
of alumina and of copper, and then into one of water-glass 
and resin soap. 

Whitewash. 

The process of whitewashing is known by various names, 
such as "calcimining." ** kalsomining," etc., most of them 
derived evidently from the latin name for lime, which was 
the principal ingredient of all the older forms of white- 
wash. 

Professors of the "Art of Elalsomining " affect a great 
• deal of mysterjr, but the process is very simple. It consists 
simply in making a whitewash with some neutral substance 
which is made to adhere by means of size or glue. It contains 
no caustic material like lime. Several substances have been 
used with good results. The best is zinc white. It gives the 
most brilliant effect but is the most expensive ' The next is 
Paris white or sulphate of baryta. This, when pure, is nearly 
equal to zinc white, but, unfortunately, common whiting is 
often sold for it, and more often mixed with it. It is not 
difficult, however, to detect common whiting either when 
alone or mixed with Paris white. When vinegar, or better 
still, spirits of salt, is poured on whiting, it foams or effer- 
vesces, but produces no effect on Paris white. Good whiting, 
however, gives very fair results and makes a far better finish 
than common lime as ordinarily used. When well made, 
however, good lime whitewash is very valuable for out-houses, 
and places where it is desirable to introduce a certain degree 
of disinfecting action. One of the best recipes for lime 
whitewash is that known as the ** White House " whit-ewash, 
and sometimes called "Treasury Department*' whitewash, 
from the fact that it is the recipe sent out by tht, Lighthouse 
Board of the Treasury Department. It has been found, by ex- 
perience, to answer on wood, brick and stone, nearly as well 
as oil paint, and is much cheaper. Slake one-half bushel 
unslaked lime with boiling water, keeping it covei-ed during 
the process. Strain it and add a peck of salt, dissolved in 
warm water ; three pounds ground rice, put in boiling water 
and boiled to a thin paste ; one-half pound powdered Spanish 
whiting and a pound of clear glue, dissolved in warm water ; 



Digitized by 



Google 



150 THE WORKSHOP COMPANION. 

mix these well together and let the mixture stand for several 
days. Keep the wash, thus prepared in a kettle or portable 
furnace, and, when used, put it on as hot as possible with 
painters' or whitewash brushes. 

Kalsomine, as distinguished from lime whitewash, is best 
suited for the interior of rooms in the dwelling house. To 
kalsomine a good sized room with two coats, proceed as 
follows : 

Select some veiy clear colorless glue and soak i lb. in water 
for 12 hours. Then boil it, taking great care that it does not 
bum, and this is best done by setting the vessel with the glue 
in a pan of water over the fire. Wlien completely dissolved 
add it to a large pail of hot water, and into any desired 
quantity of this stir as much of the white material used as 
will make a cream. The quality of the resulting work Will 
depend on the skill of the operator, but we may remark that 
it is easier to get a smooth hard finish by using three coats 
of thin wash than by using one coat of thick. If you have 
time for but one coat, however, you must give it body enough, 
In giving more than one coat let the last coat contain less 
glue than the preceding ones. 

Kalsomine, such as we have described, may be colored 
by means of any of the cheap coloring stuffs. 

The following is recommended as a good kalsomining fluid 
for walls : White glue, 1 pound ; white zinc, 10 pounds ; 
Paris white, 5 pounds ; water, sufficient. Soak the glue over 
night in three quarts of water, then add as much water again, 
and heat on a water bath till the glue is dissolved. In another 
pail put the two powders, and pour on hot water, stirring all 
the time, until the liquid appears like thick milk. Mingle 
the two liquids together, stir thoroughly, and apply to the 
wall with a whitewash brush. 

It is often desirable to ** kill " old whitewash, as it is called, 
as otherwise it would be impossible to get new whitewash 
or paper to stick to the walls. After scraping and washing 
off all lose material give the walls a thorough washing with 
a solution of sulphate of zinc (2 oz. to 1 gallon of water). 
The lime will be changed to plaster of Paris, and the zinc 
will be converted into zinc white, and if a coat of kalsomine 
be now given it will adhere very strongly and have g^eat 
body. < 



Digitized by 



Google 



THE WOItKSHOI^ COMPANION* ISl 

Wood— FlOOrs- 

Tlie following tnethod of staining floors in oak or walnut 
colors is liighly commended by the London Furniture Gazette i 
Put 1 oz. Vandyke brown in oil, 8 oja« pearlash, and 2 drmsi 
dragon's blood, into an earthenware pan or large pitcher | 
pour on the mixture 1 quart of boiling water J stin with a 
piece of wood* The stain may be used hot or coldi Thd 
boards should be smoothed with a plane and glass-papered j 
fill up the cracks with plasfer of Paris ; the brush should not 
be rubbed across the boards, but lengthwise. Only a small 
piece should be done at a time. By rubbing on one place 
more than another an appearance of oak or walnut is more 
apparent ; when quite dry, the boards should be sized with 
glue size, made by boiling glne in water, and brushing it in 
the boards hot. When this is dry, the boards should bo 
papered smooth and varnished with brown hard varnish or 
oak varnish ; the brown hard varnish will wear better and 
dry quicker ; it should be thinned with a little French polish, 
and laid on the boards with a smooth brush. 

Wax for Polishhig Floori's. — To prepare this, 12^ pounds 
yellow wax, rasped, are stiiTed into a hot solution of 6 pounds 
good pearlash, in rain water. Keeping the mixture well 
stirred while boiling, it is lirst quiet, but soon commences to 
froth ; and when the effervescence ceases, heat is stopi)e4l, 
and there are added to the mixture, while still stining, G 
pounds dry yellow ochre. It may then be poui*ed into tin 
cans or boxes, and hardens on cooling. When wanted for 
use, a pound of it is diffused into 5 pints boiling hot water, 
and the mixture well stirred, applied while still hot to the 
floor by means of a paint brush. It dries in a few houi*s, 
after which the floor is to be polished with a large floor brash 
and afterwards wiped with a coarse woolen cloti) A coat of 
this wax will last six months. 

Wood— Polishing- 

Knotted or cross-grained wood cannot be planed with the 
planes used for deal, but with a special tool, of which the 
iron is placed at a more obtuse angle. These planes can be had 
in wood or metal, and are in general use by cabinet-makei's. 
They are named according to the angle at which the iron is 
placed. For deal and soft wood this is 45 degrees, or York 
pitch ; while the iron set at 55 degrees, middle pitch, or 60 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



162 THE WORKSHOP COMPANION. 

degrees, half pitch, is tlsed for molding planes for soft and hard 
wood. When the latter is, however, very knotty, it is worked 
over in all directions with a toothing plane, so as to cut across 
the fibres and reduce the surface to a general level. It is 
then finished by the scraper, often a piece of freshly broken 
glass, but more properly a thin plate of steel set in a piece of 
wood, and ground off quite squai-e. The edge is then often 
nibbed with a burnisher, to turn Up a slight wire edge. 
This will scrape down the surface of the wood until it is 
teady for ** papering," i. e., being further smoothed by glass 
or sandpaper. This is to be rubbed in all directions, until 
the work has an even surface, and the lines thus produced 
are further reduced by the finest sandpaper, marked 00. 
After this it is rubbed over with a bit of flannel, dipped in 
linseed oil, and allowed to dry. This oiling is then repeated, 
and the work again set aside for a day or more, until the oil 
is fairly absorbed. 

If the wood be porous it must first heJiUed, as it is called, 
and for this nothing is better than whiting colored so as to 
resemble the wood and kept dry. Rub the wood with linseed 
oil and then sprinkle it with whiting. Bub the latter well in, 
wipe it off carefully and give time to dry. This is far su- 
perior to size. 

The polish — ^French polish — is made by dissolving shellac 
in alcohol, methylated spirits, or even naphtha. This is 
facilitated by placing the jar or bottle in a warm place, on 
a stove or by the fire. Other gums are often added, but are 
not generally necessary. In short, no two polishers use pre- 
cisely similar ingredients, but shellac is the base of all of 
them. The following recipes have been collected from various 
. sources more or less reliable : 

1. Shellac, 4 oz. ; alcohol, 1 pi;*!. ... .2. Shellac, 4 oz. ; sand- 

arac, i oz.; alcohol, 1 pint 3. Finishing polish : Alcohol 

(95 per cent.), i pint ; shellac, 2 dr.; gum benzoin, 2 dr.; 
put into a bottle, loosely corking it, and stand it near a i^Y^\ 
shaking it occasionally. When cold, add two teaspoonfnls 
of poppy oil, and shake well together. 

These^ it must be remembered, are polishes to be applied 
by means of rubbers, and not by a brush. Those used in the 
latter way are varnishes, such as are applied to cheap wan a 
and also to parts of furniture and such articles as are carved 
and cannot in consequence be finished by rubbing. 



Digitized by 



Google 



THE WOEKSHOP C50MPANI0N. 153 

The polisher generally, consists of a wad of list rolled 
spii*ally, tied with twine and covered with a few thick- 
nesses of linen rag. Apply a little varnish to the middle of 
the rubber and then enclose the latter in a soft linen rag 
folded twice. Moisten the face of the linen with a little raw 
linseed oil applied to the middle of it by means of the finger. 
Pass the mbber quickly and lightly over the surface of the 
work in small circular strokes until the varnish becomes 
nearly dry ; charge the rubber with varnish again and 
repeat the rubbing till three coats are laid on, when a little 
oil may be applied to the rubber and two more coats given 
it. Proceed in this way until the varnish has acquired some 
thickness ; then wet the inside of the linen cloth, before ap- 
plying the varnish, with alcohol, and rub quickly, lightly 
and uniformly, the whole surface. Lastly, wet the linen 
cloth with a little oil and alcohol, without varnish, and rub 
as before till dry. Each coat is to be rubbed until the ra/j * 
appears dry, and too much varnish must not be put on the 
rag at one time. Be also very particular to have the rags 
clean, as the polish depends in a great degree unon keeping 
everything free from dust and dirt. 

To insure success the work must be .done in a warm room, 
free from dust. 

Turned articles must be brought to a fine smooth surface 
with the finest sandpaper, and the direction of the motion 
should be occasionally reversed so that the fibres which are 
laid down by rubbing one way may be raised up and cut off. 
To apply the polish, which is merely a solution of shellac in 
alcohol, take three or four thicknesses of linen rag and place 
a few drops of polish in the centre ; lay over this a single 
thickness of linen rag and and a drop or two of raw linseed 
oil over the polish. The rubber is then applied with light 
friction over the entire surface of the work while revohdng 
in the lathe, never allowing the hand or mandrel to remain 
still for an instant, so as to spread the varnish as evenly as 
possible, especially at the commencement, and paying par- 
ticular attention to the internal angles, so as to prevent 
either deficiency or excess of varnish at those parts . The 
oil, in some degree, retards the evaporation of the spirit 
from the varnish and allows time for the process ; it also 
presents a smooth surface and lessens the friction against 
^e tender gum. Whe» the varnish appears dry, a secp^id, 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



154 THE WOEKSHOP C50MPANI0N. 

tliird and even further quantities are applied in the same 
manner, working, of course, more particularly upon those 
pai-ts at all slighted in the earlier steps. 

Wood— Staining. 

In preparing any of the tinctures used for staining, it is of 
importance to powder or mash all the dry stuffis previous to 
dissolving or macerating them, and to purify all the liquids 
by filtration before use. Their coloring powers, which 
mainly depend on very accurate combinations of the re- 
quisite ingredients, should always be carefully tested before 
a free use is made of them, and the absorbent properties of 
the materials intended to be stained should be tested like- 
wise. It will be better for inexperienced hands to coat twice 
of three times with a weak stain than only once with a very 
strong one, as by adopting the first mode a particulai* tint 
may be gradually effected, whereas, by pursuing the latter 
course, an irremediable discoloration may be the result. 
Coarse pieces of carving, spongy end, and cross-grained 
woods, should be previously prepared for the reception of 
stain ; this is best done by putting on a thin layer of varnish, 
letting it dry, and then glass-papering it completely off 
again. Fine work merely requires to be oiled and slightly 
rubbed with the finest glass-paper. Thus prepared, the 
woody fibre is enabled to take on the stain more regularly, 
and to retain a high degree of smoothness. When stain i^ 
put on with a flat hog-hair tool, it is usually softened by a 
skilful but moderate application ♦ of a badger-hair softener. 
The steel comb is chiefly employed for streaking artificial 
oak, and the mottler is used for vai-iegating and uniting the 
shades and tints of mahogany. Flannels and sponges are 
often used instead of brushes, but the implements most ser 
viceable for veining or engraining purposes are email badger 
sash tools and sable pencils. The effect produced by a coat 
of stain cannot be ascertained until it has been allowed suf- 
ficient drying period. 

This process may be used either for improving th** natural 
color of wood or for changing it so completely as to give it 
the appearance of an entirely different kind of timber. Thus 
a light mahogany may be greatly improved by being made 
barker, an4 feeye are man^ othe^' kinds of t4mb^? tfef^t W^ 

Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



THE WOEKSHOP COMPANION. 155 

greatly improved by a slight ciiange in their color. The fol- 
lowing notes will be of use in the latter direction : 

A solution of asphaltum in spirits of turpentine, makes 
a good brown stain for coarse oaken work, which is only in- 
tended to be varnished with boiled oil. 

When discolored ebony has been sponged once or twice 
with a strong decoction of gall-nuts, to which a quantity of 
iron filings or rust has been added, its natural blackness 
becoTues more intense. 

Tbe naturally pale ground and obscure grain of Honduras 
mahogany is often well brought out by its being coated first 
with spirits of hartshorn, and then with oil, which has been 
tingod with madder or Venetian red. 

Grayish maple may be whitened by carefully coating it 
with a solution of oxalic acid to which a few drops of nitric 
acid have been added. 

Half a gallon of water in which i lb. of oak bark and the , 
same quantity of walnut shells or peels have been thoroughly 
boiled, makes an excellent improver of inferior rosewood ; it 
is also far ^fore' any other of its kind for bringing out 
walnut. 

Baw oil, mixed with a little spirits of turpentine, is 
universally allowed to be the most ejficacious improver of 
the greater number of materials. Beautiful artificial grain- 
ing may be imparted to various specimens of timber by 
means of a camel-hair pencil, with raw oil alone, that is, 
certain portions may be coated two or three times very taste- 
fully, so as to resemble the rich varying veins which con- 
stitute the fibril figures ; while the common, plain parts, 
which constitute the ground shades, may only be once 
coated with the oil, very much diluted with spirits of tur- 
pentine. The following are a few useful stains : 

Mahogany. — 1. Water, 1 gallon ; madder, 8 oz. ; fustic, 
4 oz. Boil. Lay on with a brush while hot, and while wet 
streak it with black to vary the grain. This imitates Hon- 
duras mahogany. 

2. Madder, 8 oz. ; fustic, 1 oz. ; logwood, 2 oz.; water, 
1 gallon. Boil and lay on while hot. Besembles Spanish 
mahogany. 

3. A set of pine shelves, which were brushed two or three 
times with a strong boiling decoction of logwood chips, and 
yamished with solution of shellac in alcohol, appear almost 

-. - Google 



156 THE WOEKSHOP COMPANION. 

like mahogaiiy both in color and hardness. After washing 
with decoction of logwood and drying thm^oughly^ they re- 
ceived two coats of varnish. They were then carefully sand- 
papered and polished, and received a fnal coat of shellac 
varnish. 

Imitation Ebony. — There are two processes in use for giving 
to very fine grained wood the appearance of ebony. One is 
a mere varnish, and mav be applied in a few minutes, as it 
dries very rapidly. Either French polish, made black with 
any fine coloring matter, or good ** air- drying black varnish," 
may be applied. This, however, gives only a superficial 
coloring, and when the edges and comers of the work wear 
off, the light-colored wood shows. The other method is as 
follows : Wash any compact wood with a boiling decoction 
of logwood three or four times, allowing it to dry between 
each application. Then wash it with a solution of acetate of 
iron, which is made by dissolving iron filings in vinegar. 
This stain is very black and penetrates to a considerable 
depth into the wood, so that ordinary scratching or chipping 
does not show the original color. Some recipes direct the 
solutions of logwood and iron to be mixed before being ap- 
plied, but this is a great mistake. 

BlcKik Walnut Stain. — 1. Take asphaltum, pulverize it, 
place it in a jar or bottle, pour over it about twice its bulk 
of turpentine, put it in a warm place, and shake it from time 
to time. When dissolved, strain it and apply it to the wood 
with a cloth or stiff brush. If it should make too dark a 
stain thin it with turpentine. This will dry in a few hours. 
If it is desired to bring out the grain still more, apply a 
mixture of boiled oil and turpentine ; this is better than oil 
alone. Put no oil with the asphaltum mixture or it will 
dry very slowly. When the oil is dry the wood can be 
polished with the following : Shellac varnish, of the usual 
consistency, 2 parts ; boiled oil, 1 part. Shake it well before 
using Apply it to the wood by putting a few drops on a 
doth and ruobing briskly on the wood for a few moments. 
Tbis polish works well on old varnished furniture, 

2. The appearance of walnut may be given to white woods 
by painting or sponging them with a concentrated warm 
solution of permanganate of potassa. The effect is different 
on different kinds of timber, some becoming stained very 
yapidly, others requiring more time for the result The pey» 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



THE WORKSHOP COMPANION. 157 

manganate is decomposed by the woody fibre ; brown per- 
oxide of manganese is precipitated, and the potash is after- 
wards removed by washing with water. The wood, when 
dry, may be varnished. 

Brown Stain, — ^Paint over the wood with a solution made 
by boiling 1 part of catechu (cutch or gambier) with 30 parts 
of water and a little soda. This must be allowed to dry in 
the air, and then the wood is to be painted over with another 
solution made of 1 part of bichromate of potash and 30 parts 
of water. By a little difference in the mode of treatment 
and by varying the strength of the solutions, various shades 
of color may be given with these materials, which will be 
permanent and tend to preserve the wood. 

Staining Oak. — According to Neidling, a beautiful orange- 
yellow tone, much admired in a chest at the Vienna Exhibi- 
tion, maj be imparted to oak wood by rubbing it in a warm 
room with a certain mixture until it acquires a dull polish, 
and then coating it after an hour with thin polish, and re- 
peating the coating of polish to improve the depth and 
brilliancy of the tone. The ingredients for the rubbing 
mixture are about three ounces of tallow, three-fourths of an 
ounce of wax, add one pint of oil of turpentine, mixed by 
heating together and stirring. 

Darketiinq Oak Framing. — Take one ounce of carbonate of 
soda, and dissolve in half pint boiling water ; take a sponge 
or piece of clean rag, saturate it in the solution and pass 
gently over the wood to be darkened, so that it is wet evenly 
all over ; let it dry for 24 hours. Try first on an odd piece 
of wood to see color ; if too dark, make the solution weaker 
by adding more water ; if not dark enough, give another 
coat. This may always be kept ready for use in a bottle 
corked up. 

Imitation EoseiDood. — Boil one-half ^jound of logwood in 
three pints of water till it is of a very dark red ; add one-half 
ounce of salt of tartar. Stain the work with the liquor while 
it is boiling hot, giving three coats ; then, with a painter's 
graining brush, form streaks with the following liquor : Boil 
one-half-pound of logwood chips in two quarts of Winter j ad4 
one ounce of pearlash, (knd apply hot, 



Digitized by 



Google 



158 THE WOEKSHOP COMPANION. 

Zinc. 

Zinc, when cast into plates or ingots, is a brittle metal, 
easily broken by blows' from a hammer. In this state it is 
evidently somewhat porous, as its specific gravity is only 6*8, 
while that of rolled zinc rises as high as 7*2. Zinc, when 
heated to 212° Fah., or over, becomes nialleable and ductile, 
and when rolled into sheets it becomes exceedingly tough and 
does not regain its brittle character on cooling. Hence, sheet 
zinc has come into very extensive use in the arts. 

To Pulverise Zinc. — Zinc becomes exceedingly brittle when 
heated to nearly its melting point. To reduce it to powder, 
therefore, the best plan is to pour melted zinc into a dry and 
warm cast-iron mortar, and as soon as it shows signs of 
solidifying pound it with the pestle. In this way it may be 
reduced to a very fine powder. 

Black Varnish fw Zinc. — ^Professor Bottger prepares a 
black coating for zinc by dissolving two parts nitrate of cop- 
per and three parts ciystallized chloride of copper in sixty- 
four parts of water, and adding eight jmrts of nitric acid. This, 
however, is quite expensive ; and in some places the copper 
salts are very difficult to obtain. On this account Puscher 
prepares black paint or varnish with the following simple 
ingredients : Equal parts of chlorate of potash and blue 
vitriol are dissolved in thirty-six times as much waim water, 
and the solution left to cool. If the sulphate of copper used 
contains iron, it is precipitated as a hydrated oxide, and can 
be removed l3y decantation or filtration. The ' zinc castings 
are then immersed for a few seconds in the solution until 
quite black, rinsed off with water, and dried. Even before it 
is drjr, the black coating adheres to the object so that it may 
be wiped dry with a clotii. A more economical method, 
since a much smaller quantity of the salt solution is required, 
is to apply it repeatedly with a sponge. If copper-colored 
spots appear during the operation, the solution is ai^plied to 
them a second time, and after a while they turn black. As 
soon as the object becomes equally black all over, it is 
washed with water and dried. On rubbing, the coating ac- 
quires a glittering appearance like indigo, which disapi)eai-s 
on applying a few drops of linseed-oil varnish or ** wax 
milk," and the mc b^ theA a deep black color p^nd ^lo98, 



Digitized by 



Google 



IN^DEX 



Aby!«sinian gold, o. 

Accidents, general rules in case of, 9. 

Acids, stains of, to remove, 130. 

Adhesive paper, loi. 

Alabaster, 11, xo8. 

to work, XI. 

to polish, II. 

to clean, 11. 

cement for, la. 
Mbata, composition of, 13. 
Alcohol for making varnish, 12. 

as a stimulant m cases of accident, xa 
Alloy for filling holes in cast iron, 13. 

for uniting iron, steel and brass, 13. 

general rules for making, 12. 
Aluminium, bronze, 13. 

silver, 13. 
Amalgam, Eloettger's, 13. 

copi>er, 13. 

for silvering globes, etc., 13. 

for electrical machines, 13. 

nlver, for mirrors, 9S. 
Amber, working and polishing, 15. 

cement for, 16. 
' imitation, 16. 

solvents for, 119. 
Aniline inks, 67. 

stains, to remove, 130. 
Annealing copper, brass, etc., x6. 

Anti-attrition lubricator, 9a 

metal. Babbitt's, 14. 
Anti-friction metais, Belgian, 14. 

cheap, 14. 
Antique bronze, 26. 
Antiseptic preparations, 17. 
Aquarium cement, 29. 
Armeni-jn cement, 29. 
Arsenic, antidote for, xix. 
Arsenical soap, 17. 

powder, 17. 
Axle grease. Booth's, 90. 
B tbbitt metal, how to make and apply, 14. 
Balls for removing grease, 131. 
Barometer paper, 102. 
Itasketware, varnish for, 139. 
Batteries, voltaic, 145. 

zincs for, 146. 

connections for, 145. 
Beeswax, to bleach, 17. 
Belgian antifriction metals, 14. 
Beliine, leather, cement for, 35. 
Penpal Ji^ht, 8j. 



Blackboards, to make, 18. 

crayons for, 40. 
Blazing off steel springs, 134. 
Bleaching by means of sulphur, 137. 

ivory, 78. 

shellac, 122. 

skeleton leaves, 84. 
Blue color, to remove -from iron and 

steel, 76. 
Blue light, 84f 8& 
Bluing of steel, 136. 
BootlTs axle grease, 9a 
Boxes, metal for lining, 14. 
Brass,. 18.^ 

to finish, iQ. 

to color and varnish, 19. 

to bronze, 19, 25. 

to blacken, 20. 

to whiten, 21. 

to deposit by electricity, ax. 

to coat with copper, 22. 

to coat with silver, 126. 

to clean, 22. 

to lacquer, 32. 
Brazing, 22. 
Brightening iron, 76. 
British plate, composition of^ 13 
Bronze, aluminium, 13. 
Bronze for brass, 25. 

antique, 36, X05. 
Bronzing, 25. 
Bronzing liquid, 26. 
Bronzing wood, leather, paper, etc, 2d. 
Browning gun barrels, 60. 
Browning mixture for gun barrels, 60. 
Buckland's cement, 29. 
Huffing metals, etc., 94, 95. 
Burnishing metnls, 94. 
Burns, cure for, 27. 
Calcimine, 149. 
Canvas, to make waterproof, 147. 

metallic soap for, 148. 
Cap cement, Faraday's, 31. 
Carmine ink, French process for mak- 
ing, 67. 
Ca.se-liardening iron, 73. 
Casein and soluble glass cement, 30. 
Casein Mucilage. 30. 
Cast steel— see steel. ' 

Catgut, how to make, 97. 
Cats, to cure skins of, 129. 
Cement for alabaster, Z2, 

a<^uarium, 3^ 



Digitized by 



Google 



160 



INDEX. 



Cement, Armenian, 29. 

Buckland's, 29. 

cheese, 30. 

Chinese (schio-liao), 30. 

Faraday's cap, 31, 

electrical, 31. 

for glass, earthenware, etc., 31. 

glass, 31. 

gutta percha, 33. 

iron, for pipes, etc., 33. 

Japanese, 34; 
. for kerosene oil lamps, 34. 

labels, 34. 

for uniting leather and metal, ^ *. 

for leather belting, 35. 

litharge and glycerine, 75. 

for attaching metal to glass, 36. 

Paris, for shells, etc., 36. 

porcelain, 37. 

soft, ^7. 

soluble g1ass» 37. 

Sorel's, 38. 

Steam boiler, 38. 

transparent, 38. 

turner's, 38. 

Wollaston's, 38. 

sulphur, 138. 
Cements, general rules for using, 28. 
Chalk for polishing, xiy 

prepared, 114. 
Chatham light, 89. 
Cheese cement, 30. 
Chinese cement, 30. 

glue, 30. 
Chlorate of potassa, caution, 87. 
Cleaning engravings, etc., Z05. 

glass, 57. 

glass for mirrors, 97. 

looking glasses, 99. 

ivory, 78. 

marble, 91. 

silver, 125. 
Clich6 metal, 15. 
Cloth, to make waterproof, 147. 
Clothes on fire, what to do, 48. 
Cock metal 13. 

Coffee as a stimulant in case of acci- 
dent, 10. 
Cold process for zincing iron, 75. 

tinning iron, 75. 
Color of tempered steel, 134. 
Connection's for voltaic batteries, 145. 
Copal, solvents for, 119. 
Copper, 38.* 

amal^m, how to make, 13. 
'•■ to polish, 38. 

to weld, 39. 
(^lptrin^ iron Qr steel, 39. 



Coral, artificial, 4a 
Cork, to cut, 40. 

to make airtight, 40. 
Corrosive sublimate, antidote for, zia. 
Crayons, for blackboards, 40. 

to preserve, 41. 
Creases, to take out of engraving^ 

etc., 102. 
Crocus martis, forpolishing, X15. 
Curing and tanning skins, 228. 
Curling metal surfaces, 41. 
Cuticle, liquid, 41. 
Dammar, solvents for, 119. 
Demons, tableaux light for, 86. 
Dials, paindng hours on, lox. 
Diamond for drilling glass, 56. 
Disinfecting by sulphur vapots, 137, 

by pastils, etc.. 50. 
Drawing paper, size for, 127. 

to mount, 102. 
Dresses, how to make fire-proof, 48. 
Drilling glass, 55. 
Dumoulin's liquid glue, 32. 

Ebony, imitation, 156. 
Electrical amalgam, 13. 

Boettger's, 13. 
Electrical cement, 31. 
Electrum, composition of, 13. 
Elemi, solvents for, 119. 
Elutriation, how to perform, X13. 
Engravings, to take creases out of, xoau 

to take water stains out of, X05. 
Eraser for ink; 70. 
Etching copper, 42* 

varnish for, 42. 

acid for, 42. 

steel, liquid for, 43. 

glass, 44. 
Eye, accidents to, 44. 

to remove particles from, 45 

lime in, 46. 

Faraday's cap cement, 31. 
Fire-proof dresses, 48. 
Fire, clothes on, 48. 
Fires, to prevent, 46. 

what to do in case of^ 47. 
Fluxes for solders, 24. 
Fly i)apers, to make, 49. 
Forging iron, 72. 
French polish, 152. 
Freezing mixtures, various kinds, 50. 
Freezing, to prevent ink from, 69. 
Fruit stains, to remove, 130. 
Fuller's earth for scouring, 131. 
Fumigating pastils, how to make w^ 

use, 50, ' 

Furs, skins, curing, is9; 



Digitized by 



Google 



INDEX. 



161 



fusible metals, how to make and use, 15. 

Ghosts, tableaux li^ht for, 86. 

Gilded ware, cleanmg, 80. 

Gilding metals, best methods, 51. • 

with gold leaf, 52. 

picture frames, 53. 

Vood, 54. 

steel, 54. 
Glass, soluble, cement, 30. 

cement, 31. 

earthenware, etc., cement for, 31. 

working, 54. 

culling, 54. 

cutting without a diamond, 55. 

drilling, 55. - 

how to turn and bore in a lathe, 55. 

stoppers, fitting, 56. 

stoppers, to remove, when tight, 56. 

to powder, 57. 

grotmd, to imitate, 57. 

vessels, to cleanse, 57. 

paper, 103. 

paper, waterproof, 103. 
Glassware, to pack, 59. 
Glue, how to choose, 31. 

how to prepare, 3a. 

Chinese, 30. 

liquid, 33. 

marine, 35. 

mouth, 33. 

portable, 33. 

Gold, Abyssinian, 9. 

gilding with, 52. 

mk, 63. 

lacquer, 82. 

size, preparation of, 137. 
Grass, dried, to stain, 59. 
Grease stains, to remove, 130. 
Green light, 85, 86. 
Ground glass, to imitate, 57. 
Guns, to improve the shooting of, 59. 

to keep barrels from rustmg, 60. 

to brown the barrels of, 60. 

varnish for barrels, 61. 
Gutta percha cement, 33. 
Gypsum, 108. 

Handles of knives to fasten, 62. 

Hard solder, 23. 

Hardening copper, brass, etc., 16. 

steel, 133. 
Heat used in forging iron, 72. 
Hygrometric or barometer paper, 102. 

Indelible aniline ink, 68. 

Indian ink, 68. 
Indestructible ink, 60. 
tadian ink, how to choose, 63. 



Ink. different kinds of, 62. 

rules for selecting and using, 63. 

black, recipe for, 66. ^ 

Runge's black ink, 66. 

blue ink, 66. 

carmine ink, French process, 6f, 

xed ink, 67. 

aniline inks, general formula, 67. 

aniline ink, violet, 67. 

aniline ink, blue, 67. 

aniline inks, aqueous solutions, 67. 

gold, 68. 

silver^ 68. 

marking ink for Itnetti 63. 

indelible aniline, 68. 

indelible Indian, 68. 

indestructible, 69. 

that will not freeze, 69. 

sympathetic or secret, 69. 

eraser, 70. 

pencils, 106. 

stains, to remove from silver, 135. 

stains, to remove, 131. 
Inks for rubber stamps and stencils, 70W 
Inlaying, simple method of, 71. 

imitation, 71. 
Iron cement for joints, 33. 

forging, different heats employed 
for, 72. 

welding, 72. 

case hardening, 73. 

rust, to prevent 74. 

zincing, 74. 

cold process for zincing, 75. 

tinning, 75. 

tinning in the cold, 75. 

brightening, 76. 

to remove blue color from, 76. 

mould, to remove, 131. 

and tin, alloys of, 139. 
Ivory, character of as regards work, 76. 

working and polishing, methods 
for, 77. 

bleachmg and cleaning, 78. 
Ivy, poisoning with, remedy, 1x3. 

Japanese cement, 34. 
Javelle water, 79. 
Jewelry, cleaning, 80. 

Kalsomine, 149. 

Kerosene oil lamps, cement for, 34. 

Labels, cement for, 34. 

Lac, different kinds of, i3X. 

Lacquer, method of using, Si- 

deep gold, 82. 

bright gold, 83. 

pale gold, 83. 

used oy A. Ross, 83, 



Digitized by 



Google 



m 



IKDEX. 



Lacqner, preservation of, 83. 

Laundry gloss, 83. 

Leather belting, cement for, 35. 

Leather and metal, cement for, 35« 

I/eather, to make waterproof, 147. 

leaves, skeleton, 83. 

Lights, signal and colored, 84. 

Bengal, 84. 

blue, 84, 86. 

red, 85, 86. 

white, 8<; 86. 

crimson nre, 85. 

green, 85, 86. 

Tot indoor illumination, 85. 

phosphorous, 88. 

photographic, 88. 

Chatham, 89. 
litharge and glycerine cement, 35. 
Looking glasses, care of, 99. 

how to clean, 99, 
Lubricators, rules for selecting, 89. 

plumbago, 90. 

anti-attntion, 90. 

fine lubricating oil, 90. 

Booth's axle grease, 90. 
Magnesium light, 85. 
Mahogany, to improve, 155. 

artificial, 155. 
Maple, to whiten, 155. 
Maps, vaniLsh for, 141. 
Marble, composition of, 90. 

method of working, 91. 

method of polishing, 92. ^ 

substances wliich injure it, 91. 

to clean, 91. 

sculpture, how finished, 93. 
Marine glue, 35. 
Marking ink, 68. 
Mastic, solvents for. 1x9. 
Mats, skins cured for, 128. 
Mercury, bichloride or corrosive sub- 
limate, 112. 
Metal, fusible, 15. 

anti-friction, 14. 

Babbitt, 14. 
Metal, to attach to glass, 36. 
Metallic soap for canvas, 148. 
Metals, to polish, 94, 95, 96. 
Metals, bright, pamting, lox. 
Mexican onyx, 90. 
Mildew, to remove, 131- 
Mirrors, to make, 96. 

for optical purposes, 96. 

silver amalgam for, 98. 

care of, 99. 
Mono-chromatic light, 86. 
Moulds made of sulphur, 138. 
. Mouth glue, 33. 



Mucilage, cai^ein, 30. 
Murderers, tableaux, light for, 86. 
Newton's fusible metal, 15. 
Nickel, characters of, 99. 

^ to deposit without battery, too. 
Noise, prevention o( 100. 
Novargent, 126. 

Oak, to stain, 157. 
to darken, 157. 
Oil, fine, for lubricating, 90. 
Oilstone powder for polishing xx6. 
Onion's fusible metal, 15. 
Opium poisoning, remedy for, xxd* 
Oriental alabaster, i^ 
Oxidized silver, X23. 

Paint, to remove stains of, X33. 
Painting bright metals, xox. 
Painting metal dials, xoi. 
Paper, various uses of, xox. 

adhesive, xoz. 

barometer, 102. 

creases, to take out of, xoa. 

drawing, to moun^ 102. 

glass paper, 103. 

to prepare for vamuhing, xoi. 

pollen powder or paper powder, 

tracing, 104. 

transfer, 104. 

to remove water stains from, ^05. 

waxed, 105. 

fur pillows, 107. 

size for, 127. 
Paris cement for shells, etc., 36 
Paris green, antidote for, 11 1. 
Paste, recipes lor, 36. 
Pastils, fumigating, 50. 
Patina or artificial bronze, 105. 
Pattcnis, to trace, 105. 
Pencil marks, to fix, 106. 
Pencils, ink, to make, 106. 
Peroxide of iron for (Ktlishing, xx6. 
Pewter, 15, 107. 

hardened, X07. 

for caps and polishing tools, 107. 
Phosphorous light, 88. 
Phosphorous as poison, antidote, xx3. 
Photographic light, 88. 
Pillows for sick room, 107. 
Plaster-of- Paris, preparation of, xo8. 

to harden, 108. 

to cast, xc8. 
Plate renovator, X26. 
Plating without battery, X36. 

nickel, 100. 
Platinum, solder for, 25. 
Plumbago as a lubricator, 9a 
Poisons, cautions in regard to^ X09, 



104. 



Digitized by 



Google 



IKDEX. 



led 



Poisons, acids, no. 

oxalic acid, no. 

Prussic acid, ixx. 

arsenic or Pans green, tit, 

corrosive sublimate, xia. 

phosphorous, 1x2. 

opium, 112. 

.strychnine, 1x3. 

ivy poisoning, X13.' 

stings, 113- . 
Polishing smoothing iron.s, 83. 

metals, 94. 

powders, selection of, 1x3. 

elutriation of, X13. 

chalk or whiting, 1x4. 

prepared chalk, 1x4. 

crocus or rouge, 1x5. 

Andrew Ross's mode of prepar- 
ing, 1x5. 

oilstone powder, xx6. 

pumice-stone powder, zx6. 

putty powder, 117. 

Vienna lime, 118. 
Polishing powder. Lord Ross's mode of 

preparing, 116. 
Polishing powders, oilstone powder, xi6. 

pumice-stone powder, 117. 

putty powder, X17. 

Vienna lime, 118. 
Polishing wood, X51. 

in the lathe, X53. 
Pollen powder or paper, X04. 
Porcelain cement, 37. 
Powders, polishing, 1x3. 
Printing in gold, silver and bronze, 51. 
Prussic acid, antidote for, xii. 
Pumice-stone powder, 117. 
Putty powder forpoUshing, X17. 
Queen's metal, composition of, X5. 
Rabbits, to cuxe skins of, X29. 
Red ink, 67. 
Red light, 85, 86. 
Resins, characters of, X19. 
Rosewood, imitation, X57. 
Ross, Andrew, lacquer used by, 82. 

method of preparing rouge for polish- 
ing, XX 5. 

method of preparing putty pow- 
der, 1x8. 
Ross, Lord, method of preparing rouge 

for polishing, xi6. 
Rouge tor polishing, 1x5. 
Rust and corrosion of iron, to prevent 74. 

Sailcloth, to make impervious to water, X4 7. 
Sandarach, solvents for, 1x9. 
Saws, how to put in order, 120. 
Saws, tempering, 135. 



Secret writing, ink for, 69. 

Seed lac, X2i 

Sheep skins for mats, curing o^ xaS. 

Shelikc, character of, X2X. 

adulteration of, xaz. 

solvents for, xx^, zax. 

clarifying solutions of, Z39. 

bleaching, laa. 

varnish, 142. 
Sieves, very fine, to make, zaft 
Silver, aluminium, 13. 

characters of, zaa. 

for solder, 23. 

ink, 68. 

amalgam for mirrors, 9ft. 

how hardened, 122. 

oxidized, X23. 

to clean, 125. 

to imitate old, xa^ 

to remove ink stains fix)m, 125. 

to dissolve off plated ware, 125. 

to work and polish, 122. 

nitrate, to remove .stains of, X3«. 
Silvering mirrors, amalgam for, 06. 

inside of globes, etc., 13. 

leather, etc, 126. 

powder, T26. 

solution, X27. 

amalgam for metals, 127. 
Silversmiths' work, how finished, X2» 
Size, glue, how to make, X27. 

for window shades, X29. 

for drawing paper, X27. 

gold, X27. 
Sizing for window shades, 127. 
Skeleton leaves, 83, 
Skins, tanning and curing, 128. 
Skins, sheep, curing for mats, X28. 

of rabbits, cats, etc., to cure, xa^i 
Soft cement, 37. 
Solder, soft, composition of, 23. 

hard, how to make, 24. 

flux for, 24. 

wire, 2^ 

for platinum, 25. 

German silver, 25. 
Soldering, aa 
Soldering fluid, 23. 
Soluble glass cement, 37. 
Sorel's cement, 38. 
Speculum metal, how to make, 15. 
Spirituous liquors as a stimulant, la 
Spotted varnish, to restore, 145. 
Springs, to temper, X35. 
Staining wood, 154. 
Stains, how removed, 139. 

acids, X29. 

aniline dyes, 13a 



Digitized by 



Google 



164 



INDEX. 



Stains, fruit, 130. 

^rcasc,i30. 

ink and m>n mould, 131. 

mildew, 131. 

nitrate of silver, 132. 

paint, 132. 

tar, 13a. 
Stamps, ink for, 70. 
Steam boiler cement* 38. 
St«el, forging, 133. 

burnt) to restore, 133. 

to gild, 54* 

to Harden, 133* 

to temper, 134. 

blazing off, X34. 

welding, 136. 

to blue, 136. 

springs, to temper, 135. 
Stencils, ink for, 70. 
Stick lac, X2I. 

Stimulants, use of in ca^e of accident, xo. 
Stings of insects, temedy for, 113. 
Stoppers, glass, to fit, 56. 

to remove tight, 56. 
Stiychnine as a poison, antidote for, 13. 
Sulphur, 137. 

bleaching by means of, 137. 

disinfecting by means of, 137. 

as a cement, 138. 

for making moulds, 138. 
Sympathetic ink, 69. 
Tanning and curing skins, 128. 
Tar, to remove stains of, 132. 
Tempering steel on one edge, 134. 

steel, color indications, 134. 

steel springs, 135. 

steel saws, 135. 
Tin, 138. 

how corroded, 138. 

alloys of, 138. 

and iron, 139. 
Tinning iron, 75. 
Tracing paper, 104. 
Transfer paper, 104. 
Transparent cement for glass, 38. 
Turner's cement, 38. 
Tutty powder or putty powder, iijl 
Type metal, 15. 
Varnish, 139. 

for browned iron, 6x. 

for basket ware, 139. 

black, for optical work, X4a 

black, for cast iron, X40. 

green, 140. 

tor bright iron work, 141. 

for maps, X4X. 

mastic, X4X. 



Vambh for bright metals, 141. 

for paintings, 141. 

for preventing rust, 149. 

shellac, 142. 

tortoise shell, Japan, 14^. 

turpentine, X42. 

for violins and similar articles, 143. 

for replacing turpentine and linseed 
oil paints. X4*. 

white, hard, for wood or metal, i4> 

white, for paper, 143. 

white spirit, 143. 

Parisiftn, for wood, Z43. 

for stained wood, 143. 

to restore spotted, 145. 

black, for zmc, X58. 
Varnishing paper, 103* 

directions for, X44* 
Vienna lime for polishing, zx8. 
Violins, varnish for, X42. 
Voltaic batteries, X45. 

zincs for, X46. 

Walnut, black, to imitate, 156. 
Washing glass vessels, 58. 
Watch, care of, 146. 
Waterproof glass paper, X03. 
Waterproofing, methods used for, X47. 

for leather, 147. 

for canvas, X47. 

for sailcloth, 147. 

ordinary goods, 148. 
Water stains, to remove from engnu 

vings, X05. 
Wax for poUshing floors, xsx. 
Waxed paper, 105. 

Weather paper or barometer paper, xos* 
Welding copper, 39. 

iron, 72. 

steel, 136. ^ 
Whiting for polishing, 114. 
White light, 85, 86; 87. 
Whitewash, Treasury Department recipe 

for, 149. 
Whitewash, to "kill," 150. 
Window shades, sizing for, X27. 
Wollaston's white cement, 38. 
Wood's fusible metal, X5. 
Wood floors, 151. 

pohshing, 15X. 

staining, X54. 

Zinc, characters of, 158. 

to pulverize, X58. 

black varnish for, X58. 
Zincing iron, 74. 

iron by cold process, 75. 
Zincs for batteries, amalgamating, X46 



Digitized by 



Google 



A. NBW 8KRIE8 OF PBACTJCAJD nOOK»* 

WORK MANUALS. 

The intention of the publishers is to give in this Series a number of small books which 
will give Thorough and Reliable Information in the plainest possible language, upon the 
ARTS Oin ■E:V:E:TtYl^A.'Y LIFE. 

E^h volume will be by some one who is not only practically familiar with his subject, 
but who has the ability to make it clear to others. I'he volumes will each con^n from 
50 to 75 pages , will be neatly and clearly printed on good paper and bound in tough 
and durable binding. The price will be ifS c^nts each, or five far <H%e Dollar, 

The following are the titles of the volumes already issued. < Hhers will follow at 
short intervals. 

I. Cements and Glue. 

A Practical Treatise on the Preparation and Use of All Kinds of Cements, Glue 
and Paste. By John Phin, Editor of the Youngs Scientist and i\i^ Atnertca.^ 
younial of Microscopy 
Every mechanic and householder will find this volume of almost everyday use. It 

contains nearly soo recipes for the preparation of Cements for aXiiost every conceivable 

purpose 

II. The Slide Bole, and How to Use It. 

This is a compilation of Explanations, Rules and Instructions suitable for mechnnics 
and vlhers interested m the industrial arts. "Rules are given for the measuremeui of 
all kinds of boards and planks, timber 11 the round or square, glaziers' work and paint- 
ing, brickwork, paviors work, tiling and .slating, the measureuient of vessels ol various 
shapes, the wedge, inclined planes, wheels and *xles, levers, the \*eighing and meas- 
uretnent of metals and all solid bodies, cylinders, cones, globes, (m tagon rules and 
formula:, the measurement of circles, and a comparison of French and Kn.j;li>.h measures, 
with much other inforaiatiun, useful to builders, carpenters, bnckbycrs, glaziers, 
pnviors. slaters, machinists and other mechanics. 

Possessed of this little Book ai.d a good Siide Rule, mechanics mic:ht carry m their 
pockets some hundreds ol times the po.ver of calculation that they now liave in the- 
heads, and the use of the instrument la \^x^ easily acquired 
HI. BUnts for Painters* DcMsorators and l*aperhan{;ers. 

Being a selection of Usefid Ri.les, Data, Memoraid^, Meth ds and Suggestions 
for House, Sliip, and Furniture I'ai. ting, J'aperl«nging, Uildink', Col-jr Mixing, 
and other matters Useful and Iii-tructi\e to Painters »nd Dcc(*r:rors. Prepared 
with Special Reference tj the W iits of Amateurs. By an Old iiand. 
IT. CoMt» traction. Use and Care of Drawinjc Instruments. 

Being a Trcausc on Draughting Instnin.cnts, with Rules for their Use and Care, 
Explanations of Scale ;, Sectors and Protractors. Together with M emoranda for 
Lrraughtsiuen, Hints on Purchasing Paper, Ink, Instruments, Pencils, etc. Also a 
Price List of all materials required by Draughtsmen. Illustrated with tvventy-foiur 
Explanatory Illustrations. By Fkeu. T. Hodgson. 
v. The Steel Square. 

Some Difficult Problems in Carpentry and Joinery Simplified and Solved by the 
aid of the Carpenters' Steel Square, together with a Full Description of the Tool, 
and Explanationsof the Scales, Lines and Figures on the Blade and Tongue, and 
How to Use them in Everyday Work. Showing how the Square may be Used 
in Obtnitiing the Lengths and ^veis of Rafters, Hips, Oroins, Hraceb, Bmckeis, 
Purlins, Coilar- Bedims, and Jack-Rafieis. Also, its Application in Obtaining 
the Bevels and Cuts for Hoppers, Spring Mouldings, Octagons, Diminished 
Styles, etc, etc. Illustrated by Numerous Wood-cu-s By Fred. T. Hudcsom, 
Author of the ' Carpenters' Stce Square." ^rvTr> 

NoU. — This work is intended j.s an elementary introdnctioa for the u^e of those who ^'^^ 
have not time to study Mr. Hodgson's larger work on the «am« subject. 



THE WORKSHOP COMPANION. 



Part II. 



A Coljfciioii of Useful an<l Reliable Recipes, Eules, Processes, 
MhiIhxIs. Wrinkles, and Practical Hints, for tlie House- 
hoM and the Shop. — Paper, o5 cents; cloth, 60 cents. 

This is till extension of the First Part. Jind contains subjects which have 
not been disfiissed in the earlier voluuie. These two volumes are not a 
mere collection of ne wspjiper (•lipi>iug>i. like most of the books of "Recipes." 
but a series of thorongli articles on practical matters in regard to wliicli 
information is constantly desired in tlie shop, the house, and on the fann. 

The two parts are also issued in one volnme, i)rinted on extra paper, and 
handsomely bound in cloth, under the title of The Pbactical ASSISTANT. 
Price $1. 



THE STEEL SQUARE AND ITS USES.-By Fred. T. 

lIoix.soN'. — Third edition, cidarged and improved, witli 
100 engravings.— Just issned.— Cloth $1.00 

The most v-aluable, practical, and simple work for mechanics ever pub- 
lished. 



STEEL SQUARES AND THEIR USES.— Being a De- 

sciiption of tiie various Steel Squares jind Their Uses in 
Solving a large number of Meehunieal Problems in Con- 
structive Carp«Mi try. Joinery, Sheet -metal Work, Cut-Stone 
and Brick Work. Also showifig bow many geometrictil 
and other problems may be solved by the use of the ste<d 
square. — By FiiED. T. HoDnsoN. editor of "The Buibbr 
and Woodworker." — Finely illustrated. — Cloth. . $1.(('' 

This forms Part IT of "The Steel Square and Its Uses." It gives new 
problems, new methods, and new wrinkles for shortening work. 

With these two volumes in his possession the workman is prepared :<• 
lay out any piece of work more easily, quickly, and accurately than it < j.h 
be done by any other method. 

Sent by mail on receipt of price. Address 

THE INDUSTRIAL. PUBLICATION CO., 

9 Barclay Street, New York. 

Send for our Complete Catalogue. 



Digitized by 



Google 



SUCCESS WITH RECIPES. 
A Practical Guide to Success in the use of Re- 
cipes, Formulee, &c.— With Hints on Chemical and 
Mechanical Maniimlaiioii. — Intended as a Supplement to 
all Books of Recipes.— By John Phin. — Paper, 25 cents. 

While it is an untloubted fact that inuiiy of the recipes published in the 
ovdiiiary oolleetions are erroneous, eitlier fron: original blunders on the 
parr of the autlioi-s or from mistakes in copying, failure in the use of others 
frequently arises from defective infonnati(m and vicious methods on tlie 
part of liiose who atie.ppt to put them in practice. The object of the 
present book is to «ive such hints and cautions as will enable the worker to 
secure success where success is possible; and where the products are in- 
tended for sale it jjives special s n<l valuable advice in regard to the best 
methods of putting them ou the market. 



ELECTRICIANS' POCKET COMPANION. 

Electrical Rules, Tables, Tests, and Formulae. 

By Andrew Jamieson, C.E., F.R.S.E.— Fully illustrated. 
]2in<). clorii .75 cents. 

Tills is the most compact and thorough work in the market for the 
practical electrician. It contains minute directions for all calculations. 
tests. &(-.. with clear engravings of the apparatus employed. The following 
list of contents will give an idea ol its scojje: — 

Fonnaljo of the .Vbsolute Units. — Practical, Electrical, Mechanical. Heat 
and Liglit Units. [tion. ' 

Electro cliemi'-al Equivalents, Electrolysis. Heat and Energj' of Combus* 

Practical Methods of Electrical Measurements. 

Eb'ctric Uon<luctors: Copper. &c.— insulators: Guttapercha, &c. 

Subnnirine Cibh's. — Aerial Laud-liiies. 

Electric Lighting, and Transmission of Power. 



COMMON SENSE IN THE POULTRY-YARD. 
A Full Account of 1,000 Hens, and wliat tliey did. 

With m:inv new wrinkles and economical dodges. — Bv 

J. P. HAiG. — Illiistrat(Hl.— Cloth $1.(0 

The most tliorgughly practical book on poultry in market. 

SHOOTING ON THE WING. 

Plain Directions for Acquiring; tliis Art.— Wit ii 

several Valuable and hitherto Secret Recipes of Gn at 

Practical Iraportance to the Sportsman. — Finely illiistr'd. 

Cloth 75 cents. 

Sent by mail on receipt of price. Address 

THE INDUSTRIAL. PUBLICATION CO., 

9 Barclay Street, New York. 

Srufl for our Complete Catalogue. 



Digitized by 



Google 



NETT DESiaisrs 



FOB 



Eret or Scroll Sawyers. 



MR. F. T. HODGSON, whose admirable series of articles on the USE OF THE 
SCROLL SAW are now in course of publication in the Young Scikntist, has pre- 
joared for us a series of 

of which the following is a list: 

No. X. — ^I'his shows one side, back, and bottom, of a pen rack. It may be made 
of ebony, walnut, or other dark wood. 

No. a. — Design for inlaying drawer fronts, table tops, box lids, and many other 
things. It is a sumach leaf pattern. 

Na 3. — Design for a thermometer stand. It may be made of any hard wood or 
alabaster. The method of putting together is obvious. 

No. 4. — This shows a design for a lamp screen. The open part may be covered 
with tinted silk, or other suitable m.iterial, with some appropriate device worked on 
with the needle, or, if preferred, ornaments may be painted on the silk, etc. 

No. 5. — A case for containing visiting cards. Will look best made of white holly. 

No. 6. — A placque stand, it may be made of any kind of dark 01 medium wood. 

No. 7. — \ design for ornaments suitable for a window cornice. it should be 
made of black walnut, and overlaid on some light colored hard wood. 

No. &— A design for a jewel casket This will be very pretty made of white holly 
and lined with blue velvet It also looks well made of ebony lined with crimson. 

No. 9. — Frame. Will look well made of any dark wood. 

No. xo. — Frame. Intended to be made in pairs. Looks well made of white holly, 
with leaves and flowers painred on wide siile. • 

No. XI. — Horseshoe. Can be made of any kind of wood and used for a pen rack. 
When decorated with gold and colors, looks very handsome. 

No. 12. — Design for a hinge strap. If made of black wabut, and planted on a 
white or oaken door, will look well. 

No. 13. — Design for a napkin ring. May be made of any kind of hard wood. 

No. 14. — Hinge strap for doors with narrow stiles. 

No. 15. — Centre ornament for paneL 

No. x6. — Corner ornament for paneL 

No. X7. — Key-hole escutcheon. 

These designs we have had photo-lithographed and printed on good paper, so that 
the outlines are sharp, and the opposite sides of each design symmetrical. Common 
designs are printed from coarse wooden blocks, and are rough and unequal, so that 
it is often impossible to make good work from them. 

The series embraces over forty different pieces, and designs of equal quality cannot 
be had for less than five, ten or fifteen cents each. We offer them for twenty-five 
cents for the set, which is an average price of only one cent and a half each. 

Mailed to any address on receipt of price. ^-^ I 

Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



Digitized by 



Google 



Digitized by 



Google 



Digitized by 



Google 



14 DAY USE 

RETURN TO DESK FROM WHICH BORROWED 

LOAN DEPT. 

This book is due on the last date stamped below, or 

on the date to which renewed. 

Renewed books are subject to immediate recall. 



4fiHg9^Q^^ '^ 



RECEIVED 



JAN 9 ' 6 7 -1 Pff 



^MH 



CAN DEPT. 



IQ94 



sipifriA 



AUTODISCCIRC SEP 1 



5*94 



LD 21A-60m-7,'66 
(G4427sl0)476B 



,_ . V ,piniti7ftd hv 

General Library 

University of California 

Berkeley 



e 



CM) 



gle 



U. C. BERKELEY LIBRARIES 




C0M7A350M5 




M1S2394 



PS 



THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA LIBRARY 



Digitized by 



Google 



