Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 



FOOD AND HOME COOKERY 



I.OHI>ON : PSIKTKD BT 

SPOmSWOODB AKD CO., KKW-8TBXBT BQUABS 

ASD PARLTAKEVT 8TBBBT 




FOOD 



AND 



HOME COOKEKY 



A COUBSE OP IKSTEUCTION IN PRACTICAL COOKERY 

AND CLEANING, POR CHILDREN IN ELEMENTARY 

SCHOOLS, AS FOLLOWED IN THE SCHOOLS 

OF THE LEEDS SCHOOL BOARD 



BY 

CATHERINE M. BUCKTON 

UEMBRR OF THE LEEDS SCHOOL BOARD : AUTHOR OF * HEALTH IN THE HOUSE ' 




LONDON 
LONGMANS, GREEN, AND CO. 

t • 1 .- . I. < _ ..<«.••• V t it 



'I 

1-. 

.e 

I 



PREFACE. 



When public money is used, an account should be rendered 
to the public of bow it is spent. I have therefore thought 
it well to publish the following Scheme of Cookery, which, 
as the only lady member of the Leeds School Board, I have 
drawn up on behalf of my colleagues and myself. The aim 
of this Scheme was to induce a love of cleanliness, personal 
neatness, and order ; fco give jpractical instruction ; and to offer 
every aid to the girls and their parents to practise the les- 
sons thus taught them, in their own homes. In order to 
accomplish this, printed receipts easy to read were presented 
to the girls, to prevent their taking home illegible ones written 
down during the delivery of the lesson, when their attention 
ought to be given to observiug all that the cook is doing. 
It has been found that the interest of the parents is much 
aroused by their being able to purchase at cost price small 
portions of the provisions which their children have helped 
to prepare. 

The food collection, diagrams, &c., make the instruction 
easy and popular. Printed questions, answered at home, draw 
attention to the most important facts in the lesson, and are 
read aloud at the commencement of the lesson. Each. ^^V 
is to provide herself with a ^Y\\ivn^.\iooV, SxvVo -^\^^^2^ '^'^ 



VI PREFACE. 

teacher gums both, the printed receipts and the questions. 
The teacher also requests the pupil to give an account of any 
attempt at home cookery made during the intervening fort- 
night. This book may prove of great value through life, and 
serve as a testimonial for those girls who desire to enter 
domestic service. The lessons are given fortnightly, and last 
for one hour and a half, the course consisting of seventeen 
lessons, extending over one year. As forty hours are allowed 
during the year by the Code for * Lessons on Food and its 
Preparation,' the cook may divide any of the seventeen lec- 
tures that she finds too long, and repeat twice those that are 
difficult. Girls attending School Board classes of cookery may 
have the great advantage of being able to attend them for 
two or three years. Lessons in cooking ought to follow in- 
struction in the ' Laws of Health,' information on the struc- 
ture of the human body, and the kinds of food necessary to 
preserve it in health. I cannot but hope that such instruc- 
tion as I gave to our boys and girls during play hours* may 
ere long be systematically taught by a paid teacher in our 
Board Schools ; in which case the one set of models and com- 
plete apparatus, used by me when giving the lectures in 
* Health in the House,' would be sufficient. Our experience 
during the last ten months shows that the best teacher of 
cookery is an intelligent person who has been trained to cook, 
who thoroughly understands a .kitchen-maid's work, and is 
ready to impart information drawn up for her, as in the fol- 
lowing lessons. 

I beg to draw the attention of my readers to the fact 
that, though in Leeds eight cookery centres will soon be pro- 
vided, in no case is any special building to be erected, nor is 
any room expressly set apart for the purpose. The instruc- 
tion is given once a fortnight in a class-room. 

' Health in the House. Longmans, Green, & Co. 



PREFACE. Vll 

On page 11 a full statement is furnished of the cost in- 
curred by the fitting up of each centre. It is not, I think, 
much to be regretted that we have no special rooms or 
kitchens, because the great care necessary to preserve cleanli- 
ness, neatness, and order in so small a space will teach lessons 
that must be learnt if a working-man's home, which, alas^ 
sometimes consists of only one room, is to be kept in order 
and comfortable. It most be remembered that Board Schools 
are happily compelled to receive the poorest of the popula- 
tion, the class above all others that need instruction and 
belp. 

A movable gas-stove is used in our Board Schools, so 
placed that the cook can stand behind it, and face her large 
class ; but in a village cooking school, where gas is not to be 
bad, an open kitchen-range would do, provided it were fitted 
up witb a recon and the other conveniences provided by the 
gas-stove. 

Ventilation being so very important where gas is nsed^ 
every care has been taken in our Leeds schools to secure a 
free circulation of air through the cupboards in which the 
utensils and stove are locked up. The class-room is lofty^ 
well ventilated, has an open fireplace, and a window left open 
at the top. As the gas is burnt on the bunsen burner prin- 
ciple, tbe combustion is perfect. During the lesson, which 
only lasts for one hour and a half, the stove is placed near 
the open grate. Whenever a gas-stove is used in a living- 
room, a flue ought to be attached to the large hole at the 
back of the oven, and carried into the chimney. Every one 
should be made to understand how one gas-light uses as much 
fresh air as a man requires. I have lately heard of a large 
cooking-house in the west end of London, where between 
sixty and eighty gas-burners were alight witkoxsL^ «s^ ^iSi>a\R» 
carry off the bad air ! No wonder t\ie ^ot CiOc?«. ^otk^ww^^^*^ 



VIU PREFACE. 

being giddy and ready to fall down, and looked pale and ill. 
Her mistress said she could not think what was the matter 
with her. 

In conclusion, I have to offer my warmest thanks to Dr. 
Chambers for the information and tables I found in his most 
Tsluable book on ' Diet in Health and Disease,' of which, by 
his permission, I have made very liberal use. 

The lectures on Clothing and Diet, Yeast and Ferment- 
ation, added at the end, do not belong to the course of seven- 
teen lectures, but contain information bearing on Foods and 
Cookery. 

Catherine M. Buckton. 

Leeds. 



TABLE OF CONTENTS 



OB 



An Abstract of Piulctical Lbssons to bb gitbn dxjrino Owb Ybab's 

COUBSB OF GOOXBBT IlfSTBUCTION IX THB LbEDS BoABD SCHOOLS. 



Lesson 



4 
5 
6 

7 

8 

9 

10 

11 
12 



Subjects of each Lesson 



Kitchen arrangements and 
utensils suitable for a 
cottage. Kequisites in a 
kitchen-maid or cook. Di- 
rections how to lay and 
light a fire. Effect of 
good and bad air. Explain 
the use of a damper, and 
how oven flues should be 
cleaned . . - . - . 

Cleaning wooden utensils, 
dinner and tea service, 
glass, mincing machine . 

Cleaning tin and iron uten- 
sils, knives and forks, cop- 
per, brass, and metal ware, 
sink 

Bread making, yeast, and 
weighing. 

Bread baking, buns, teacakes, 
currant loaf. 

Heat to be used in cooking . 



Boasting. Best method of 

beating an egg. 
Foods called ' Body-warmers * 

and ' Flesh-formers.' 

Pastry, clarifying dripping . 



Foods, called * Mineral Foods ' 

Frying. .... 

Cookery for sick people, who 
. are not allowed to take 
/ BoUd foods. 



Foods to be cooked at each Lesson 



Bread, each girl making a 

small loaf 
Buns, teacakes, currant loaf. 

Eggs boiled and poached, 
grill mutton chop, boil po- 
tatoes, sandwich 

Boast beef, Yorkshire pud- 
ding, green vegetables 

Baked haddock, suet, raisin 
or currant pudding, baked 
potatoes .... 

Boiled tripe and onions, or 
roast pork and savoury 
pudding, jam pasties 

Cornish pasties, scattered 
nee • • I . . 

Plaice, baked rice puddviv% » 

Beet teck, ^groL^O^^-^^^ -^^iJyst ^ 
\emomae, tdS^ 



Page 



U 



17 

21 
26 



30 

36 

41 
46 




2 FIRST LESSON. 

things, so that they may be all right when we come again. 
Doors would not be necessary in your houses. If you look 
on this large upper shelf you will see a row of brown jars, on 
which white pieces of paper have been pasted with the names 
written of what each jar contains. I bought them just large 
enough to hold what we shall use in a month. Flour, oat- 
meal, rice, (fee, ought not to be kept too long, or mites will 
grow in them. The jars have lids to keep out dust as well as 
mites. > Soap is better for keeping, so I have cut some up 
into pieces, and put them in that box which stands on the 
top of the shelf, lest it should cause the cupboard to have an 
unpleasant smell. I cannot now name all the utensils and 
foods ; in time you will know them all. A list of everything 
is written on this piece of paper, which is pasted on the 
inside of the door. Meat, butter, milk ought not to be kept 
in such a place as this ; they should stand in a cool place, 
through which a good draught of &esh air is constantly 
passing. Meat, if bought very fresh, and of the heat quality, 
can be kept several days in such a larder, even in the sum- 
mer, if it is washed well directly the butcher brings it, wiped 
very dry, and hung up in the draught; it should also be 
wiped carefully every day with a clean cloth. Green vege- 
tables and potatoes should lie on a clean dry stone floor, 
where frost cannot come to kill tbem. You must examine 
the little sink and wooden rack, as it is called, just above it, 
where we put the plates to dry without wiping them, so that 
they may have a brigbt polish. When our saucepans are 
clean and very dry, we put them, without their lids, on to 
these wooden rails, with their faces down, so that fresh air 
can get into them and keep them sweet. Cooks often put 
their saucepans down on a flat shelf, so that no air can 
enter ; the cleanest saucepan in which food has been cooked 
smells fusty if left with its lid on or placed in the way I have 
just mentioned. 

Nearly all the saucepans we use are iron, without any 

paint on the outside or tinning inside. These pans are much 

cheaper than any other kind, because they are so strong that 

^Aejr ffi/j Jast for a gre&t many years, and if scrubbed with 

O^hus sand look better every year because ttvey ^lewjitoft ^\|X)^ 



SAUCEPANS. 3 

polished. It is true that if a careless cook puts them by 
damp, the iron rust does not look nice, bnt it is not in the least 
nnwholesome, the worst thing it can do is to make potatoes 
boiled without their skins look dark. An excellent cook, who 
had lived a great many years in a house where every kind of 
pan was kept, told me her favonrite pans were two iron ones. 
A French cook in Paris, who had a kitchen full of bright 
copper pans, told me the same thing. Saucepans that are 
generally used are tinned inside ; now these pans are light 
and soon wear out, and the tinning often contains lead 
which poisons any food allowed to stand and get cold in 
them. Should the cook only half fill one of these pans and 
leave it on the fire to boil, the tin comes ofE the sides and runs 
down to the bottom in lumps. After a time it all comes ofi*, 
and the pan is then used untinned if the person is poor. 
Enamelled pans that look as if they were lined with white 
china, though they appear so clean, may contain substances 
that, like lead, poison the food if allowed to grow cold in them. 
For this reason large manufacturers, like Messrs. Kenrick, 
of Birmingham, and others, have their pans examined by a 
good chemist, who is then able to tell the public that there 
is nothing poisonous in their enamel. Brass and copper 
pans, which last for generations, are dangerous because a 
poison called verdigris forms when the food in them grows 
cold. Do you not think it is wisest to buy iron saucepans, 
which are the cheapest, can poison no one, and last for a great 
many years ? Every kind of pan is safe when used by a good 
clean cook, but unfortunately cooks are often ignorant and 
not clean. Nearly all our iron pans have bright lids. Some 
are to have long handles, and some have lips with round 
handles, so that the contents can be easily poured out and 
the pan hung on a recon.^ A pan should never be put down 
flat on to a fire when it contains food. In country villages 
the cottage fireplaces generally have a recon. I went into 
one near Scarborough, and there I found both a recon and 

' A recon is a hook which can be raised or lowered by putting it iiLt<s 
the holes in a piece of iron that is attached to ^ «rw\Tk!giTk%\i«£ ^^^^^"^^ 
the side of the fireplace. A recon sometimeB onVj cowsvaXa ^^ ^ ^^sv^se^-^^^ 
bar, on which hang some large and smaWeT YlooVb. 

b2 



4 FIRST LESSON. 

an iron pan,^ and every fireplace ought to have one, or a 
brig* upon which a pan can rest. 

Though we are obliged to cook by a gas stove, it is made 
so that we can roast meat in front of the fire as you do at 
home ; it has an oven like yours to bake in, a recon, and an 
iron brig. If coals are used, nothing, I think, is so good as 
our open fireplaces. Some say that they also bum less coals 
than closed grates called kitcheners. 

I will now pull the gas-stove out of the cupboard. As it is 
placed on rollers it comes out very easily ; we will put it so 
that I can easily get behind it if necessary and face you all. 
Here are all the things I said our stove possessed, recon, brig, 
and oven. You can cook, as I have just said, quite as well 
by your own fires as by this large stove. Now that I have 
shown you our little kitchen, I should like to tell you how I 
think a little kitchen-maid or cook may manage to be clean 
and tidy all day long, though she has to light fires, sweep 
and clean the floors, and do other dirty work. You cannot 
be good cooks unless you are very clean and tidy. She 
should get up early, wash herself thoroughly, plait her hair 
neatly, and put it up so very firmly that it will remain tidy 
the whole day. Do not use coloured ribbons, as they soon get 
dirty; wear good thick shoes or boots, an apron with a bib, and 
a dress with sleeves that can be made short ; do not have the 
skirt long. While cleaning the fires or sweeping, cover the 
hair with a clean duster, or, better still, a cotton hood. A per- 
son who does all this will be well repaid for her trouble, because 
by simply washing her hands, when they are dirty, she will 
look nice and respectable to the end of the day. You must 
always come to these lessons with neat hair and clean hands. 
You will always find towels and soap ready where you hang 
your cloaks. Eemember a cook's nails must also be very 
clean ; by pressing the nails into the soap, and then taking 
the soap out by a nail on the other hand, you can keep your 
hands clean without a brush. Never forget to push the skin 

> Iron pans to be bought of Messrs. Waters and Woodhouse. 
^ A brig consists of two or three iron bars, sometimes fastened by 
hjng^es to the side of the gr&tet or free, so that they can be placed across 
\ the Sre when required. 



CLEANLINESS. 5 

down gently at the bottom of the nails with the towel eveiy 
morning, and then you will never suffer from those sore little 
bits of skin called * stepmother's blessings ; ' onr nails grow a 
little every day, and if the skin grows fast to them the nail 
tears the skin in trying to get free and grow. Directly your 
hands begin to chap, buy a small bottle of glycerine, rub 
some of it over your hands just before you go to bed, and 
then put some flour over them. In the morning you will 
find that they feel smooth and comfortable. You must do 
this before your hands get sore. 

A cook and her kitchen may be very clean, but still the 
food sbe cooks will not be clean and wholesome unless the 
air that fills the kitchen is also very pure and clean. The air 
that we breathe, and that fiUs the room, enters all the food 
that is in the room ; if the fresh air outside cannot get in, the 
room soon becomes filled with tbe poisonous air that comes 
out of our mouths every instant, called carbonic acid gas. 
This bottle is filled with this gas. If any living animal or 
human being could be put into that air, they would instantly 
die, and a lighted candle would go out directly. We cannot 
Uve in air where a candle will not bum. 

[Here show how a burning candle goes out,"] 

Our bodies are wearing out every instant ; the parts that 
wear out and die pass out of our mouths and through our 
skin in perspiration. 

The bad air when it comes out of our mouths is hot, and 
is so light that it goes up to the top of the room, like the 
steam that comes out of the spout of a tea-kettle. Look at the 
steam coming out of that kettle, and watch if it does not go 
up. Now if you want to make bad air go out of the room, 
you must open the top of the window and out it will fly ; it is 
better not to open the bottom of the window until you leave 
the room, because the cold wind that would come in might 
give you cold. Fortunately we take fresh air into our mouths 
every instant, which gives us health and makes our blood pure 
and warm. This wonderful gas that is in fresh air wliich 
makes us warm is called oxygen gas. Here \^ ^^jy!<^i\a^*i*^^^ 
filled with oxygen gas, and tiiouglQ.it\LaaTLo\asX»"£^^"^^°^'^^'*,. 
j'tf will make a tiny spark of lieat burst mto ^V05» ^aas^^ 



6 FIRST LESSON. 

fire. If we cannot get this air every instant, we first faint, 
and then we die and become as cold as marble. Yon see this 
piece of black staff which looks like coal ; it is called carbon. 
I will make a corner of this piece of carbon red hot by holding 
it in the flame of this candle. Now I will put this tiny spark 
of heat into this bottle of oxygen gas. Just see how the tiny 
spark has burst into a bright flame and made the bottle very 
hot. The carbon and oxygen which were in the bottle joined 
together and made the light and heat. There is a great 
deal of carbon in coal, wood, paper, and everything that will 
burn. The reason we put wood and paper under the coal is 
because they contain carbon and burn much more quickly 
than coal, and set fire to the coal ; a fire will not burn well in 
a room unless it is full of fresh air, and the paper and wood 
will not burn unless a great deal of oxygen gas can get into 
the grate between the paper, wood, and coal. I will lay a 
fire with these pieces of paper, wood, and coal in this grate, so 
that no air can get between them, and then you will see that 
I shall not be able to make even the wood and paper bum. 

The grate was used yesterday, and is full of cinders and 
ashes. I will not take them out, but do everything as an igno- 
rant person would do who was going to lay a fire ; put the 
pieces of paper flat on the top of them, and then the pieces of 
wood flat on the paper, and the coal flat over them on the 
top. Now we will put a light to the paper ; it will only bum on 
the outside edge, but it will not burn under the wood and set 
fire to it. I might try all day, and for ever, but neither the 
wood, paper, nor coal would bum because I have not placed 
the paper, wood, and coal so that oxygen can get in between 
them. A great many people try to make fires in this way, 
and wonder why they will not bum. I will now lay a fire 
properly; the first thing I shall do is to clear out all the ashes 
and cinders, so that air can get through these open bars at the 
bottom of the grate, made on purpose to let in air. I must just 
put a few cinders on the bars, or the paper would lie quite 
flat, I shall use the same paper we had before, only I will 
crumple it up gently, so that some air can get between the 
JbJds o£ the paper. Now I will put the pieces of wood one 
across the other like basketwork, so ttial i\ier© "w^ \iek Vq\^^ 



LIGHTING A FIBE. 7 

between the wood for air to get in, and now I will put some 
fresh coal and a few big cinders over the paper and wood. I 
need not be afraid of putting a good deal, if I do not put the 
pieces down flat. You will find that this fire will bum up 
beautifully ; we will now separate the cinders from the ashes. 
The ash is a soft powdery substance, and contains some 
mineral substances, like the iron in the grate, that will not 
bum, only put the fire out, therefore the ashes must always 
be thrown away into the ashpit; but the cinders must be put 
on the fire, as they contain a great deal of carbon, and will 
bum and make a hot fire ; too much paper puts the fire out, 
as it contains hard substances that will not bum, like iron. 
It is wasteful and wicked to throw cinders into the ashpit. 
I am afraid cinders are often wasted in this way. Ignorant 
people sometimes waste their time in trying to make ashes 
bum, but they might just as well try to make the iron bars 
of the grate bum and take fire. 

Directions about the Use of a Damper and the 

Cleanmg of Oven Fhues. 

A great deal of food, as well as time, is often wasted because 
people do not understand how to manage or regulate the 
heat of an oven and clean the oyen flues. I hope by means 
of this coloured picture of a common kitchen grate and oven, 
to teach you how to do this. Of course you have all seen 
your motiiers push hot coals under the oven from the kitchen 
fire through a hole at the side of the oven, when they wanted 
to make it hot for baking bread or any food. You can see 
the hole in this picture marked h, the red-hot coals lying 
under the oven, and flames of fire coming from them passing 
up the side and over the top of the oven into a chimney at 
the back of the oven, which is hidden, but dots are drawn 
to show where it is. This small chimney is called a flue, 
and makes the back of the oven hot. In the picture you can 
also see the flames passing up this flue from the hot coals 
until they come to a hole in the side of the kitchen chimney^ 
marked o, through which they pasa to \om \Jaft ^xosSsa ^sssci. 
the big kitchen fire, and fly up m«Q. \V» o\x\» \si\» "^^ '^^'^ 



8 FIRST LESSON. 

air. Yon must particularly notice in the picture that the 
coals under the oven are burning red and making no 
smoke; they do so because plenty of fresh air is entering 
by the hole at the side of the oven to feed the fire and 
flames. An oven such as we are looking at is a square iron 
box, placed or set in a bigger square box, so that a space 
is left under the oven for a fire, and at the side and top for 
plenty of air and the flames to pass round. These places are 
called flues. The fire and flames would die out directly if no 
fresh air could get into the bigger box, just as the flame of a 
candle would go out if put into a box or bottle that was 
covered up to keep out the air. A cook can put out the oven 
flames and fire by shutting this little door that is just above 
the oven in the flue, marked d. This door in the picture is 
pulled out as far as it will come, so that the flames can 
escape into the kitchen chimney. This door is called a damper, 
and when pushed quite in reaches across the chimney and 
prevents any air from passing to the fire and round the oven. 
When a cook wishes to make the heat of the oven less, or 
damp it, she pushes the damper in a little way, so that there is 
less room in the chimney for air to pass through, and there- 
fore less heat is made and the oven grows cooler. By 
experience she learns how to manage the damper and make 
the oven just the heat she wishes. If the flues are not kept 
clean, soot of course would fill them and keep out the air. 
When the oven is no longer wanted for baking, the damper 
should be quite pushed in, and the little door shut at the 
side of the oven through which the hot coals are sent. In 
some ovens this hole is closed by putting a piece of iron over 
it, called an end-iron. When this door and the damper are 
lefb open the kitchen fire will often not bum bright, because 
the fresh air in the kitchen rushes in round the oven and up 
through the open flue instead of going into the kitchen fire to 
mix with the cools and fan the flames. 

I must now tell you how to clean the Httle chimneys or 

flues round the oven, and the flue behind the oven, because 

they ought to be cleaned once a week, particularly in cottage 

houses, as these £nea are often made very narrow. The most 

diWcalt Eae to clean ia the one at the back vAvete VJba ^aoq^^ 



CLEANING OVEN FLUES. 9 

is. The damper, must, of conrse, be pulled out before you 
begin to clean, or you could not get anything to pass down 
to the bottom under the oven where the fire will be. If a 
brush is used it must be very long and narrow like a bottle- 
brush, and have a long bent handle so that the brush can be 
put through the hole at the side of the kitchen chimney, and 
be puUed up and down by the handle. An old servant of 
mine who has a nice cottage home, says she cleans this fine 
by a long chain tied to a stick. She puts the chain through 
the hole at the side of the grate and pulls it up and down 
by the handle, and finds she can send the chain into all the 
comers, as weU as hear when it touches the bottom. The 
soot fells, of course, where the hot coals wiU lie under the 
oven, and must be raked together and sent out through the 
hole that goes into the kitchen fire. An old toasting fork 
with a string and a weight at one end, surrounded by straw, 
does very well. 

The flue at the top of the oven is cleaned by pushing a 
stick or iron rake through a little door in front of the oven, 
marked s. Now we have to clean the side flue farthest from 
the fire. There is a hole on the top or at the side of the oven 
through which an iron can be put to clean this part. A woman 
told me the other day that while cleaning this flue the iron 
fell down and she never expected to see it again, but to her 
surprise she raked it out when she was removing the ashes 
and cinders from under the oven ; these ought always to be 
cleaned out every morning when the grate is cleaned, and 
before the kitchen fire is lighted. 

I will now show you a real oven and grate in a kitchen 
belonging to the school-keeper's house, and then I hope you 
will understand all I have said. 

I wish you would all save your pennies by putting them 
into a penny bank until you have saved enough money to 
buy a complete set of under clothes, cotton dresses, shoes, and 
all that you would require to keep yourselves neat, either at 
home or in service. I have a list of all these things^ the 
price and patterns of the cheapest ina.ieM^a^%»^^^»»*^^ ^^&»- 
tema of the beat shapes in paper \o lenflL ^wx> ^la^^ssi ^ssi^ ^ 



10 FIRST LESSON. 

each of these articles which I have had made, so that you might 
see how nice they look. The French girls, even the poorest, 
possess, by the time they go out, a large stock of under- 
clothing; they consider it a disgrace to have a torn petticoat 
and poor shoes and stockings. I think the plain strong shoes 
I have chosen are far the best. Laced boots or button boots 
take a long time to fasten, and boots with elastic are very 
bad indeed, because the elastic soon wears out, and then they 
look very slatternly ; unless a person has tidy feet she cannot 
look nice, however good her clothes may be. I hope soon to 
see every girl in our Board Schools at Leeds devoting her 
sewing hours to preparing such an outfit, instead of employ- 
ing her time in making small doll specimens for the annual 
examination by the Government Lispector. 

Things required for Fi/rst Lecture. 

Bottle of carbonic acid gas. 

Bottle of oxygen gas. 

Piece of charcoal, called carbon, fastened to a mre, to put into the 

oxygen. 
Large piece of charcoal. 
A candle. 
Kettle with boiling water to show how steam or hot air goes up to the 

top of the room. 
No. 9 Sheet. — Carbonic acid gas. 
No. 10 Sheet. — Oxygen gas. 

Girls to copy the names of these two gases. 

Questions^ for First Lesson. 

1. How do you think a kitchen-maid or cook could dress, so that she 
might keep herself neat and respectable all day in the midst of 
her work ? 



> Printed copies of Questions are placed in the hands of the children 
after every lecture. Answers to these questions are brought by the chil- 
dren at their next lesson, the following week, in their stiff-cover exercise 
books, sufficiently large for their answers over the whole course ; and are 
examined and marked by the Instructress, and returned to the school for 
the children the following day. The marks are cast up and small prizes 
are 3 warded at the end of the year. 
Awted copies of the receipts are also giyeu to the ©lU as they occur 
9i the fourth and Bubeequont lectures, and are paB\Adi m\o ^XiQ «xwi\w 



OUTFIT. 



11 



2. How would you lay a fire so that it would burn up quickly when 

you wanted to light it? 

3. Before laying the fire what would you do with the cinders and ashes 

left in the grate ? Would ashes burn if you were to throw them 
on the fire ? 

4. Why do the flames made by the burning coals that are poked under 

the oven fly up the side and over the top, and up into the kitchen 
chimney directly the little door called a damper is pulled out, and 
why do the fiames and the heat in the hot coals die out when the 
damper is shut or quite pushed in ? 

5. How would you take out the ashes and cinders that are pushed 

under the oven from the fire, and how would you clean out the 
soot that collects in the side, the top of the oven, and the small 
chimney through which the fiames pass into the brick kitchen 
chimney ? Why must the oven shelf which takes out be well 
scrubbed with sand like a saucepan? 



The following is the sample outfit recommended to the girls in the 
lecture, with the price and quantity of material required for each 
article : — 



Dress, 7 yards at 6ld, per yard 

Lining 

Buttons 

Tucker 

Best twill piping, ^ yard at Is, per yard 

Total cost of dress 



One Woollen skirting 

Flannel petticoat, 2 J yards at Hid, per yard 
Band got off calico 

Chemise, 2J yard at d\d, per yard . 
Drawers, If yard at d^d. per yard . 
Flannel vest, 1^ yards at Is.^d. per yard 
Apron with bib, fiax or harding {5d.) . 
Holland apron, | yard at 7id. per yard 
Hood, 1 yard of print and piping cord . 

Stays 

pair of Stockings, woollen . 
„ Shoes, hand-made 



it 

n 
it 
it 
ti 
it 
it 
if 
it 
it 



£ 


8, 


d. 





3 


H 








H 








4 








^ 








3 


£0 


4 


H 





2 








2 


4 








H 








6 





1 


7i 








5 








6 








6 





2 


6 





1 


6 





6 


6 



£1 3 4^ 



books along with the questions. In t\ii» -wai^ ^ t«^^1 ^^^ -^^sswsv'as^^^^ 
record of the complete course of inatrucXAOiiSs^TtaTv^^^^'t «w2a.^^s«^ ^"^^ 
reference by her frf future years. 



12 



FIRST LESSON. 



The following is a detailed enumeration of the Cookery Apparatus with 
cost of first outfit for one centre : — 

One cooking stove, two ovens, and roasting fire- 
place, complete with all necessary fittings and 

roasting jack 

Other Cookery utensils, including baking boards, 
pans, store tins, and pots, &c., for keeping 

cookery materials 

Cost of cupboard 



£ 8, d. 



14 



2 
8 



11 









£24 11 



In addition there is cost of bringing to class-room water and gas, 
fitting up of sink lined with lead, and repairs to room, varying from £b 
to £\0f according to arrangement of room, &c. 

Dimensions of Cupboard, 

From fioor to top 7 feet. 

"Width for store 4 feet 9 inches 1 * r i. o • i. 

jf •i.ori./i-i. /■=' feet 3 inches. 

„ for sink 2 feet 6 inches J 

Three shelves 22 inches broad. 

Tables 2 feet 4 inches broad, 3 feet 6 inches long, 2 feet 4 inches high. 

last of Utensils required at each Centre contained in Cupboard, 



One soup pan. 


One hastener. 


Three saucepans. 


„ dripping tin. 


One gridiron. 


„ Yorkshire pudding tin. 


„ frying-pan. 


Four wood and iron spoons. 


„ iron kettle. 


Ten knives. 


„ bottle jack. 


Four forks. 


„ stand and wheel. 


One knife box. 


„ strainer. 


„ milk jug. 


„ colander. 


„ salt cellar. 


„ dredging box. 


Ten basins, yellow. 


„ flour box. 


» jars. 


„ pepper box. 


Three tumblers. 


„ grater. 


Two washing-up bowls. 


Three bread tins. 


One zinc pail. 


Four paste boards. 


„ soap box. 


„ rolling pins. 


„ roller, for towels. 


One potato crusher. 


Four kitchen cloths. 


Four metal teaspoons. 


Six dishcloths. 


„ „ forks. 


Two blacklead brushes. 


One thermometer. 


„ scrubbing brushes. 


„ feeding bottle. 


One hand brush. 


„ sma,]} steamer. 


Two baking sheets. 


2hro meat dishes. 


One wooden bowl. 


^ix dinaer plates. 


„ B\lg^\9&«aii. 



OUTFIT. 13 



List of Utensils (continued). 



Six pie dishes. 

„ pastry dishes. 
One teapot and tray. 
Three teacups and saucers. 
One slop basin. 
One China cup and saucer. 



One tray cloth. 

„ flower vase, 

„ tray. 

„ small coffee pot. 
Scales and weights. 
Mincing machine (lent). 



Teaching Apparatus. 

Diagrams, being tables of foods, general directions, salient &ct8, &c., 
in large type on mounted sheets, which are to be used at all the centres, 
6/. Ids. 

List of the above, 

1. Drawing of yeast plant. 

2. „ starch cell. 

3. Coloured drawing of oven, flues, and grate. 

Sheets, 

4. Directions about clean hands. 

5. Table of the substances in the juices of flesh. 

6. Carbonaceous foods called * body warmers.* 

7. Nitrogenous foods called ' flesh formers.* 

8. "Wet foods, green vegetables and fruit. 

9. Table of digestibility of eggs. 

10. Carbonic acid gas. 

1 1. Oxygen gas. 

Component parts of foods, in stoppered bottles, which are used at all 
the centres, 21. Ids, 

List and Prices, 

s. d. 

Components of Beer 4 6 

„ Flour 6 

„ Beef 8 6 

Tea 8 6 

„ Cocoa 8 6 

Milk 7 

„ Potato . . . .76 

Egg 4 6 

Teacher's salary is 90/. per annum, which will be diyided over the 
various centres, at first probably 10 in number, subsequently 20. 

The gas stove burns about 100 feet of gas per hour when every burner 
is alight. The average quantity burnt at each lesson, which lasts for two 
hours, is 100 feet, and costs %d,, because gas is 3(2. per 100 feet in Leeds. 

The teacher can give every week one lesson at each of 10 centres. The 
cooked foods are readily bought by the children, or bj \«6j;5ckSJsa"^J*siSi ^jjsoife 
some distance to school, at about tlia coat ^laftft oS. Vicift TaaX»»^* ^ ^ 
weekljr loss on the food for the 10 lesBOiva ^ow xiot «%5i»'i^^*» 



14 SECOND LESSON. 



SECOND LESSON. 

CLEANING. 

LIST OF OOOKEBT UTENSILS TO BE WASHED AT THE LESSON. 

Wooden Tlteimls, — Table tops, pasteboard, rolling-pin, wooden 

spoons, and bowls. 
China, — Dinner plates, dishes, and milk jugs. 
Tea-things, tray, glass, meat-mincing machine, and iron kettle. 

I HAVE written the names of the kitchen utensils we are 
going to clean to-day on the large slate over the mantel- 
piece. A cooking utensil means anything that will hold food, 
such as a basin ; or anything upon which we prepare food, 
such as the top of the table ; or anything that helps us to 
prepare food, such as a rolling-pin or mincing machine. 

For cleaning all these things we only use plenty of hot 
and cold water, a scrubbing-brush, and some Calais sand that 
costs about 2d per pound (a pound lasts a long time). Our 
dishcloths, tea-cloths, and dusters are all made of the same 
material, harding, which only costs 5d. per yard ; three quar- 
ters of a yard makes a towel. We never use soap to clean 
any kind of cooking utensil. I hope you will never do so ; 
becaase though soap is a very good thing to take away dirt 
from our hands and clothes, it is a very nasty thing to eat. 
Now, when soap is used to wash a table top or any sort of 
cooking utensil, it is almost impossible to wash it all ofP so 
completely that not a bit shall remain in any comer. Wood 
sucks up a great deal of water and the soap too that is in 
the water; if you make paste or chop parsley, Ac. on the 
wood, the soap will surely come off and get into the food. 
We use soda instead of soap. Soda, like soap, is very fond 
of grease and sucks it all up directly it touches it. We always 
put some soda into the water in which we wash tea-things, 
or any utensil that has contained milk, or any kind of food, 
Jbeaanse there is some grease in every food, though we cannot 



CLEANING COOKING UTENSILS. 15 

Soda would take off gold, but none of our china has any 
gold, I am glad to saj; if it had we should have to use a little 

soap. 

Directly we have used a dishcloth, pudding-cloth, or any 
cloth, we wash it in clean hot soda and water, rinse it well 
with plenty of cold water, and then pull it out straight and 
hang it out to dry, so that every part of the cloth can get 
plenty of fresh air or oxygen gas. Oxygen gas makes every- 
thing pure and sweet. You know how much sweeter clean 
clothes smell that have been hung out to dry in fresh air than 
those which have been dried in the house. You must re- 
member that unless every utensil a cook uses is perfectly 
clean and sweet, the food that has been cooked in it will not 
be wholesome or taste nice. I have seen a dirty cook in a 
good house wash all her plates, dishes, and dishcloth ip only 
one water, without rinsing them at all. 

Now here you will have to wash everything in at least 
two waters, and be taught that nothing can be clean unless it 
has been well rinsed in clean water. 

As there are twenty girls, I have arranged five separate 
places at each of which four girls will stand and do their work. 
You will each clean one wooden utensil, one or two china plates 
belonging to a dinner-service, some china that belongs to a 
tea-service, also an utensil that has held milk. When you 
have been taught how to clean one wooden utensil you will 
know how every wooden utensil should be cleaned. If you 
know how to clean a china plate you will understand how to 
clean a whole dinner-service; if you can clean a cap and 
saucer you will know how to clean glass and all that belongs 
to a tea-service, because glass is cleaned in the same way. 
If you can clean any utensil that has held milk you will know 
how to keep every dairy utensil sweet and clean. 

All our wooden utensils are cleaned as follows : — About 
a tablespoonful of crushed soda is put into the hot or cold 
water that is to be used, to wet the table-top, pasteboard, 
rolling-pin, or whatever the utensil may be ; some Calais sand 
must then be sprinkled all over the table, and then scruhbe.d. 
well with a scrubbing-brush. After >u\v& \«^ o\. 'ODaHa^^^sasa. 
been well washed and rinsed, eyer^ \5v^ oi ^x«^^ -^jR=^>af5k 



16 SECOND LESSON. 

removed, the wood will look white and be so sweet that any 
food can be prepared upon it. 

"We wash a dinner-service in the following way: — First put 
about a tablespoonfol of crashed soda into a tin bowl, pour 
boiling water over it, put in a dirty plate, wash it well with 
a very clean and sweet dishcloth, and then put it into another 
tin bowl of hot or cold water. Should you have no second 
bowl, hold the plates one after another under the tap, put 
them into a rack like ours (which is over the sink), or let 
them rest one against another until they are dry ; you will 
then find they have a beautiful bright polish. Never wipe a 
dinner-plate, or it will look greasy and not clean and bright. 

The tea-things must be washed in soda and water as hot 
as the hand can bear, and washed by the hand, particularly 
round, the outside where we drink ; they should then be well 
rinsed in cold water and wiped dry with a clean cloth. Glass 
is washed in the same way, and wiped dry and rubbed until 
it is very bright. The commonest plate, cup, or glass is an 
ornament to a room when it is perfectly clean. 

Now about milk jugs. Every utensil or feeding bottle 
that has held milk requires to be most carefully washed. 
Directly the milk is taken out boiling water should be poured 
in and allowed to stand in it for at least five minutes. Little 
germs that float in the air are very fond of milk, and get into 
it, feed upon it, and turn it sour. These little germs are too 
small to be seen by the naked eye. A thousand of them can 
live in a single drop of water or milk. They like warm or 
cold water, but water that quite boils at 212° kills them 
directly. Now this is the reason why I said that the boiling 
water must stand a few minutes in the jug so that it may kill 
any germs that are in the corners. Babies who drink sour 
milk die of bowel complaints, because these little living germs 
in the sour milk get into their blood and poison it. 

At the end of the lesson you shall watch and see how 

I clean a mincing machine and a feeding bottle. Every part of 

a mincing machine must be taken to pieces when it is cleaned, 

and it must be cleaned directly it has been used ; if the least 

morsel of old meat is left in a little comer all the fresh food 

fFiT/ be quite spoiled. The best feeding "bolW'ft \a \Jaa old* 



CLEANING METAL UTENSILS. 17 

fashioned one, like this, that has a short teat over the mouth 
when the infant sucks. This teat can be taken off and put 
into boiling water, and the bottle can have a little soda and 
boiling water poured into it. It is impossible to clean a 
feeding bottle with a long pipe, because boiHng water cannot 
get inside the pipe and into every corner to kill the germs 
that live in nodlk. 

Directions. — Questions to be read aloud before the lesson. 

Each girl should find her place and work arranged. 

One table ought to be kept quite free to receive each utensil when it is 
cleaned. 

All dirty utensils are to be sorted and kept quite distinct in one part of 
the room. 

Questions for Seco^id Lesson. 

1. How would you clean milk-jugs, basins, or any utensils in which 

milk has been kept ? 

2. How would you wash dinner plates and dishes that had no gold 

upon them, so that they should have a bright polish ? 

3. How would you wash tea-things which have no gold, and glass ? 

4. What is the cheapest and sweetest way of cleaning tablo-tops, paste- 

boards, rolling-pins, and all wooden utensils ? Why ought a cook 
never to use soap ? 



THIRD LESSON. 

CLEANING-— continued. 



Tin and iron utensils. — Saucepans and lids, gridirons, spoons, 
dripping pans, cake-tins, oven-shelves, colanders, tin milking 
pans, fiour dredgers. 

Clean sink, brass tap. 

Knives and forks, brass and copper pans, and tea-kettles. 

Metal tt;ar«.— rSpoons and forks. 

We will read over the list of the utensils we are going to 
clean to-day. Tin and iron utensils are all cleaned with hot 
water, soda, and Calais sand ; soap should never be used. 
Copper and brass pans and kettles ate c\e».Tiek^ ^^^^^ ^^asssa 
materiala that are used in polishing 'kwie^ ^sA ^^'^%— ^^ 





18 THIRD LESSON. 

brick and a leather. German silver ntensils are made bright 
by whitening and a leather. One of our pans is new ; I will 
show yon what mnst be done to it before it can be nsed. I 
shall fill the pan with cold water, then put in two tablespoon- 
fuls of bran and hang the pan on the recon, or place it 
where it can gradually come up to boiling point, then let 
the bran and water simmer for two hours ; the inside of the 
pan will by that time have become beautifully smooth and 
ready for use. Some cooks have a dirty habit of letting soup or 
the water in which meat has been boiled remain in their pans ; 
this water should never be wasted or thrown away, but poured 
directly, before it is cold, into a perfectly clean jar and kept 
until the next day, to be used as soup or broth. If any kind 
of food remains in a brass or copper pan, a poison forms, called 
verdigris, and whole families have been poisoned by eating 
this food; it is even dangerous to allow food to remain in 
saucepans that are tinned inside, because lead is sometimes 
mixed with the tin, and the lead mixes with the cold food and 
forms a poisonous substance. 

Before you begin to clean anything I wish to show you 
why it is necessary to clean the outside of all saucepans as 
well as the inside. Saucepans often get covered with soot, 
and so become dirty and make the cook dirty too. Soot also 
prevents the heat of the fire from passing quickly through 
the pan into the water or food. The water in a kettle that is 
clean on the outside boils more quickly than one covered with 
soot. I will prove this by putting some soot over the centre 
of my hand and a small boiling tea-kettle on the top of it. 
You will find I shall be able to hold the boiling kettle there 
for a minute, because the soot will not let the heat in the 
kettle pass through into my hand. I hope you will not try 
this little experiment yourselves, because it requires great 
care and my kettle is very small and light ; I could not hold a 
large, heavy one. 

We will now wash the inside of the pans. Pour boiling 

water into them, with a little soda ; if there is any burnt fat 

at the bottom you must rub it off with a small piece of flannel 

and Calais sand ; never scratch it off with your nails as 

^ome little JcitcL eh- maids do, and bo wear t\io\x 'u«ii\& ^o\<\x\» 



CLEANING PANS AND SINKS. 19 

the quick. Now you must wash the outside, and then put 
the pan under the tap and rinse it well both inside and out ; 
do not wipe it, only turn it down and place it over these 
rails, where plenty of air can enter it. The lids must be 
washed, just as we washed the pans, in hot water and soda, 
and then rinse them well under the tap. Do not wipe them, 
only hang them upon a hook or nail, and you will find that 
when they are dry they will not only be very clean, but have 
a bright polish. 

A sink should be very carefully cleaned with a scrubbing 
brush, hot water, and soda; you must remember that the 
opening through which the water runs goes into the large 
drain, and that a short way down the pipe there is a little 
bend which holds about a cupful of water. The water in 
this cup gets quite bad and impure if bits are allowed to go 
down through the hole into the pipe. The first thing to be 
done, therefore, is to collect all the little bits on the sink, put 
them into a basin with all the potato parings and any tops of 
vegetables there may be, and neatly throw them on to the hot 
ashes wndev the grate. Cover them over the top with the hot 
ashes, so that the heat from them may bum the bits. By the 
time you have washed up, and want to make up the fire and 
clean the hearth, these bits will not smell when you throw 
them with the cinders on to the back of the fire, but will bum 
like cinders. People should never keep a swill-tub unless they 
have an outhouse. K a wooden tub is used for washing up 
it ought to be put in fresh air, and not under the sink ; tin 
bowls are the best for washing up in, as the grease does not 
sink into them as it does into wood. I sometimes see dish- 
cloths, and brushes, and pots put under the sink ; but that is 
not the place for them. Living germs, that are always floating 
in the air, though we cannot see them, settle in anything that 
is damp or greasy, and make it smell fusty, and cause a mould 
to grow. Mould is a collection of living germs. 

We are now going to clean knives. If great care is not 
taken in washing knives and forks, the handles come ofP. Care- 
less cooks will put the handles into boiling yro.tA'c ^&^^3?S.'««. 
the blades ; the blades only b1io\xMl te ^^3aJC«^5iLm^^S|>^'^^^^ 
water and soda, just deep enongVi to co^ct ^« \3^%^^n 



20 THIRD LESSON. 

handles should afterwards be dipped into some clean warm 
water and be well wiped. When the knives have been made 
bright on a knif eboard, the handles should be nicely wiped, so 
that all dast is removed ; nothing is more disagreeable than a 
dusty or dirty knife-handle. CofiTee pans and kettles should 
be washed inside and out with soda and water as the knives 
are, and then be polished on the outside with a piece of 
leather and Bath brick powdered very fine. German silver 
utensils should be well washed with plenty of hot water and 
soda, and polished with leather and whitening. A very good 
cleaner uses very little whitening, Bath brick, or any polishing 
powder, as it gets into the corners and makes the utensil look 
dirty instead of clean. 

It will be seen by the list given of the utensils at each centre that it is 
impossible to have a suiBcient supply of dirty utensils for twenty girls to 
clean. The cook rubs a little grease inside the cleaned part and some soot 
on the outside if she has not a sufficient number. 

Kequired — A sm^U kettle of boiling water. 

Questions for Third Lesson. 

1. All the following cooking utensils are cleaned in the same way : — 

Iron and tin saucepans, gridirons, dripping pans, cake tins, oven 
shelves, iron spoons, colanders, tin milking pans, saucepan lids, and 
flour dredgers. Describe how you would clean them. 

2. Why must the outside as well as the inside of a saucepan always be 

cleaned? 

3. How ought a sink to be cleaned ? Where must any bits of food be 

put ? Why is it very unhealthy to keep a swill tub under a sink, 
or in any living room ? 

4. How would you make knives and forks quite clean, and aftem'ards 

give them a bright polish, and prevent the handles £rom being 
dusty? When you know how to clean and polish knives you will 
know how to polish brass and copper pans and kettles, as they 
are cleaned with the same materials. 



BKEAD-MAEINQ. 21 



FOURTH LESSON. 

t 

COOKERY. 

Bread Making, — The use of scales, and how to measure certain 
quantities by kitchen utensils instead of scales — Dough to be 
baked into cakes and bought by the girls. 

This is onr first lesson in which we begin to cook food. Yon 
must remember that it is only by practice that yon can learn 
to do anything perfectly. It is impossible for you to get 
sufficient practice at school to make yon perfect ; this practice 
I hope you will get in your homes, as all the foods prepared 
here ought to be eaten in every family, if the members of the 
family are to be strong and healthy. In order to help you to 
practise at home, receipts will be given yon of what you have 
cooked, so that your parents may understand them and 
provide you with all you require for cooking. I hope you. 
will always answer the questions, which are to be given you 
after each fresh lesson. 

Whenever you have been able to practise at home any of 
the cleaning or cooking taught at the class, give a £Etithful 
account of how you succeeded, or if you failed in your at- 
tempts. I can assure you that such answers will be read with 
the greatest interest by the Members of the Leeds School 
Board. The food you cook during your lesson is to be 
divided into portions that will be sold to you at the end of the 
lesson for 1(2., 2d,, and Sd, I told you at the last lesson on 
cleaning that at your lesson afber this one, you would makd 
bread and buns, so that to-day you can tell me whether you 
would like to buy any. I shall by this means know how much 
bread to make, and how many buns will be required. There 
will then be no waste and you will have more practice. 

I recommend you to try and keep a cheap little basket like 
this, which costs only 2d, K a piece of felt, suck ^a "klcaa^^ 
which is half-a-yard, is doubled and ^tw^^^ ^cj^isi^ *^^^ 
boBin, the food it contMns ^mil \>© 'te^X^ tj^'^ «^^ -wwss^O^' 



22 FOURTH LESSON. 

cause felt will not let the heat escape. Felt is very cheap — 
Is. 2d, a yard. A quarter of a yard will be enough. 

Let ns now read what is written on the slate over the 
mantelpiece, and then yon will know what we are going to 
learn to-day Brdad-maki]jg — ^Yeast — Weighing. 

Eead also what is said about clean hands and nails. I see 
your hands are very nice indeed. "We will now make the 
dough, and while it is rising I will give you some information 
about yeast, flour, and weighing. In each of the ten bowls 
that are placed round the table there are 6 oz. of flour, and in 
the piece of brown paper by each basin there is ^ oz., rather 
less than half a teaspoonful, of brewer's yeast or German 
yeast (the same quantity is required of either kind). Make 
a little hole in the middle of the flour (not quite to the bot- 
tom, or the china is seen, and the yeast would stick to it) ; 
sprinkle a very little salt round the dry flour, put the yeast 
into the cup or mug by your side, and mix a tablespoonful 
and a half of the water that is placed in the two jugs on the 
table. First feel the water with your finger, and if it is luke- 
warm, like new milk, it is the right heat. Watch what I do 
and then copy me. Mix the water and yeast together, then 
pour it into the hole just a little at a time, so that you can 
mix the water and flour together gradually until it has all been 
made into dough. Now knead the dough well, and keep turn- 
ing the outer edges into the middle ; it is almost impossible to 
knead dough too much. When none of the dough sticks to 
your fists, you may give up kneading. Cover the top of the 
basin with a clean cloth and put it near the fire, but not so 
near as on the fender, where there is a draught. After about 
an hour the top of the dough will begin to separate and look 
like honeycomb ; it will then be ready to make into a loaf and 
put into the oven to bake. Cooks often let the dough stand 
until it separates a second time on the top, when the weather 
is not very hot. Dough sucks in air, just as a sponge sucks 
in water. The air in this room, which has entered the dough, 
is pure because our windows are open at the top and the room 
is sweet and clean. Bakehouses are often filthy places, and 
^Aff bread will also be very dirty, though it looks aJl right to 
^Ae ejre. At the next lesson the ten yoxxngeaV* ^\^ ^«Nl 




YEAST. 23 

make the same quantitj of dongh. The quarter of a pound 
of flour will make a little roll that we mean to sell for a 
halfpenny ; it would be a penny at the shops. A quarter of 
a pound just makes a tea-cake. Now the dough is rising. 

Yeast is a most wonderful substance. Every cook ought to 
know its history ; some of you may know it. Lest there should 
be any here who do not, I must describe it as shortly as I can. 
German and brewer's yeast are the same substances ; the only 
difference between them is that the German ^^^ ^ 

is. dried and comes from Holland, and the 
brewer's is fresh and is bought at any brewery 
in Leeds. Yeast is a plant, and looks like a 
little bag when seen through a magnifying 
glass. You may fancy how tiny it is when 
30,000 will only cover a square inch; no 
wonder we cannot see them, though the air Yeast Pianv 
is full of them. In this picture you can see 
them. They grow one out of another like the soap bubbles 
that you blow out of a pipe. In one teaspoonful of brewer's 
yeast there will be several thousand little yeast plants. They 
cannot grow without food ; they grow very quickly on sugar 
and water ; and while they are growing they make a great 
deal of air, which we call carbonic acid gas. When the yeast 
is mixed up in the flour it feeds on the sugar there is in the 
flour, and fills the dough with air bubbles, that lift (or rise, 
as we say) every part of the dough. When the yeast ^lant 
has eaten up all the sagar it can find in the flour or dough, 
the dough becomes sour. In the winter the dough can be 
allowed to rise twice, but in the summer once is enough and 
then the dough should be baked. The little yeast plant is 
quite still and will not work in cold weather. Boiling water 
kills it, but warm water, such as you mixed with it, makes it 
grow very quickly. You must look through the little window 
in the oven door. Directly the dough is put in you will see 
how the little plant enjoys the heat and grows so fast that 
the top of the dough rises and swells up. In about five or 
ten minutes the poor little thing will be killed by the heat in 
the oven, which to bake bread well ou^\i\» Vo \i^ ^& ^igt^'sji^ ^ 
boiling water, and it will tlien ce«kS^ \/c> ^otV— ^^§^^2^*^^^=^^^ 

c Z* 



24 



FOUBTH LeasoB. 



too, or the bread would be fnll of air-holee. Yoa shall be 
taught how to bake bread in the lesson after next. The yeast 
plant is like a tiny little egg which is spoiled if it is crashed. 
Cooks can keep the yeast plant alive by feeding it on sugar in 
the Bummer time when it is scarce. Just look at tbe brewer's 
yeast in that jug, how it is growing and working. If yon 
were to put it into a bottle and cork it np, it would soon 
push the cork out and send it flying to the other side of the 
room, or it would burst the bottle. This dried yeast is also 
working away beoanse it has found something to feed on in 
the warm wat«r. 

I will now ten you which kind of flour is the most 
nonriBhing and the best to buy, and mention the names of 
some of the principal things flour contains ; they are clearly 
written down on the sheet on the wall : — 

' Albnmen makes oar flesh, nerves, and muaclea. 

' Starch only makes our fat. 

* Phosphorus, lime, and gelatine. These three things are 
the only snbstences that will make our bones hard and 
strong.' 




The bottles which ore placed on this stand conbun the 
water and the quantity of each of the principal substances 
that could be taken out of one pound of flour. We will 
examine them. Here is albumen or gluten, that makes onr 
Seah, zauacleB, and aervea ; here is the starch which nu^es our 
Ai/ ^e liaje, pbospboraa, a^d gelatine w\fl<^u«JiB o^^Ksuea 



BEST AND SECONDS FLOUR. 25 

grow strong and hard. All children (except babies) who 
have cat all their teeth should eat a great deal of bread daily, 
because it will make their bones grow hard. If a child's bones 
are not quite hard before it is se^en years old, they will never 
be strong, and its legs will be crooked and weak. 

The starch in flour is exactly the same starch your mothers 
use to stiffen your fathers' shirt collars and fronts. I wish 
you to notice that starch is a very white substance. The 
whitest and dearest of flour, called best, costs 2^d. per pound ; 
this flour is chiefly starch, and though the bread that is made 
of it looks very white it is not very nourishing, because the 
starch only makes fat. Albumen, phosphorus, gelatine, iron, 
and lime, which feed our muscles and nerves, and make our 
bones strong, are dark-coloured substances, and make the flour 
less white. This darker flour is called seconds, and costs only 
2d, per pound. You can see the difference in their colour, as 
I have some of each kind in these two bottles. 1 hope you 
will always buy seconds, because it is not only more nourish, 
ing, but it has a sweeter flavour. Flour is the most nourishing 
of all vegetables ; flour is a vegetable food because it comes 
from wheat that grew in the ground. Every food that has 
grown in the ground is called a vegetable. You must remem* 
ber this fact, or you will not understand what I shall tell you 
during the cookery lessons about the different kinds of food. 

I shall beg^ the next lesson by showing you how to 
weigh out the exact quantity of flour and yeast you require 
for the dough. 

There are si^en ounces in a pound, eight ounces in half a 
pound, and four ounces in a quarter of a pound. Every pound 
of flour requires one gill of water to mix it into dough of the 
right stiffness, and half an ounce of yeast to make it rise, and 
a quarter of a teaspoonful of salt. You must always put the 
salt in when the flour is quite dry. All families do not possess 
a pair of scales, but a cook can manage without them if she 
takes the trouble to find basins, mugs, and spoons that 
hold certain quantities. For instance, this basin exactly holds 
a pound of flour, this basin half a pound, and this cup a 
quarter. This jug holds one pint, Wid^S»&«aisK^TS5s^%'«^^S^' 
A tableepoon holds one ounce« 



26 FIFTH LESSON. 

Articles required. 

No. 4 Sheet.— Clean handS) &c. 
No. 6 Sheet. — Principal component parts of bread. 
Food collection of component parts of one pound of flour. 
No. 1 Sheet. — ^Picture of yeast plant. 
Samples of the whitest flour. 
„ of the seconds flour. 
German and brewer's yeast, in two tumblers. 
Kettle of boiling water. Pour some of the water into on« of the tumblers 

of yeast, to prove that the yeast plant is killed by that degree of heat. 

Pour a little tepid water into the other tumbler, to show how that 

heat makes the plant ^/row. 

Questions for Fourth Lesson. 

1. How would you know when your dough had risen enough before 

putting it into the oven to bake ? Why ought bread to be made in 
a clean room fllled with good air? 

2. Every kind of food that grows in the ground is called a * vegetable.' 

Is flour a ' vegetable * ? 

3. There are two kinds of flour. One kind is very white, the other is 

not so white, and is called * seconds.' In which kind of flour do 
we flnd the most of the following things :— Albumen, that makes 
our flesh, muscles, and nerves ; starch, that makes our fat ; lime, 
phosphorus, and gelatine, which are the only three things which 
make our bones grow strong and hard ? 

4. How can you tell the yeast plant ? 

Receipt for Fourth Lesson. 

Bread Cakes. — 6 oz. of flour or 6 tablespoonftils, ^ oz. or half a tea- 
spoonful of German yeast, a pinch of salt, about two tablespoonfuls of 
either water or milk just lukewarm, then let it rise for J hour, and bake 
i hour. 



FIFTH LESSON. 

COOKERY— cofUimied. 

USE OF THEBMOMBTEB — BBBAD-BAXING TBACAICBS, BUNS, 8BBD 

AND CUBBANT CAKE. 



As your lesson only lasts for an honr atid a half, it is not 

possible to teach you how to make bread and how to bake it 

-^ one Jesson. I have, thereforey brought a amfiAi ^\vx»cii\»\\,^ ot 



USE OF THE THEBMOMETEB. 27 

dough wbioli I made at home, that is nearly ready for baking. 
I kept it as warm as possible in my little basket with this 
piece of felt ; still, for fear that the little yeast plant may have 
been ohiUed by being carried through the cold air, I will cover 
the basin over with a clean cloth and place it on a chair near 
the fire, where there will be sufficient warmth to make the 
yeast grow. 

While the yeast plant is working I will try and explain to 
you the use of the thermometer which I hold in my hand. 
By this instrument we can find out how many degrees of 
heat there are in the water or food when it is being boiled 
on the fire, or how many degrees of heat the oven contains. 
You see we measure heat by degrees, not by pownds or oimce^, 
as we measure fiour and food. If we apply too much heat or 
hot air to food we bum it ; and if we apply too little, the food 
is not cooked enough. Bakers in Paris and Vienna, where 
the best bread in the world is made, have thermometers in 
their ovens which tell them exactly how much heat the oven 
contains. The air in an oven ought to be at 410^ of heat when 
the dough is put in. We have a thermometer in each of our 
oven doors. The thermometer I have in my hand is for 
putting into water or any food. It is, you see, a long glass tube 
with figures on it, the bottom figure is 1° and the top 500®. 
Between each figure there are little dark lines ; the space 
between these lines is called a degree. At the bottom of the 
pipe there is a glass ball filled with a white substance called 
quiolcaihery because it looks like silver and moves very quickly 
directly any heat touches it. My hand is warm. I will, 
therefore, put it over the ball of quicksilver, and you will see 
how the heat from my hand will get into the quicksilver and 
make it warm, cause it to swell, and rise up very quickly 
through the pipe. When the quicksilver stops I shall look 
at the figure on the dark line opposite to which it stops, and 
then I shall know how hot my blood is, or how many de- 
grees of heat it contains. 

We will look at the thermometer on the oven door. The 
ball with the quicksilver is placed inside the oven^ea ^Jasi^ 
the hot air in the oven can toudo. \!t, ^Y!\itb\i«e^'a ^\^XxMb ^ 
quickailver has risen up, you ae^, to AsV^^ > ^"^^ ^^^ ^ ^ 



28 FIFTH LESSON. 

We must now put our dough in directly, or the oven will 
get hotter and spoil our bread. Before we put it in I must 
teach you how to find out the heat of the oven for baking 
bread without a thermometer, as very few ovens possess 
one, I am sorry to say. I shall sprinkle this pinch of flour 
on the bottom of the oven ; if it becomes a nice brown colour 
in a minute, the oven would be just the right heat ; but if 
the flour turns black, the oven is too hot, and if it does not 
become a nice brown, then there will not be heat enough to 
bake the bread. You see this flour has browned very nicely 
in a minute. I wonder whether you would put the bread on 
the top or the bottom shelf of the oven. As the air is the 
hottest at the top, the dough would be quite spoiled if you 
put it there, because the heat would fall down on the top of 
the dough and bake the top so hard that the dough would not 
rise. At the end of ten minutes you will find by looking 
through this glass window that the heat in the bottom shelf 
has entered the bottom of the dough, made the yeast plant 
grow, the starch cells in the flour swell, and sent the water 
which was in the dough out through the holes we pricked 
with a fork on the top of the dough. Water weighs very 
heavy, and, if not driven out, would make the bread when 
baked very heavy ; dishonest bakers know this, and put their 
loaves on the top shelf first to harden the top crust and pre- 
vent the water from getting opt, and so get more money, as 
they sell the loaves by weight. Directly a loaf of bread is 
taken out of the oven it should either be placed down on its 
side or on the top crust, so that the water or steam that still 
remains can get out at the bottom of the loaf, which is not so 
hard as the crust. As the loaf we have just put into the oven 
is only a small one, it must be put on the top shelf in ten 
minutes. A pound loaf should remain a rather longer time. 

We are now going to make some currant buns, seed buns, 
and teacakes. To make all these we must have four pounds 
of flour, half a teaspoonfal of salt, four ounces of dripping, one 
egg, German yeast ^ ounce, half a pint of milk, which must 
be lukewarm, a small teaspoonful of carraway seeds, a 
ygaar^r of a pound (or four tablespoonfuls) of currants, four 
^Tnees of sugar. Currants ouglit to be 'very coiefeiiXVy ^«j^^, 



CURRANT BUNS. 



29 



as they are very dirty, and have little bits of stone which 
might break the teeth ; they must also be very dry before 
they are put into the flour, or the water if left in will make 
the cakes heavy. I should wash raisins, dates, figs, and all 
dried fruits, because they often contain mites, and are very 
dirty. Cooks wash a pound of currants or more at a time, 
and put them when clean and dry into the jar, so that they 
may be ready when they are wanted. I have divided one 
pound into ten portions, so that ten girls can learn how to 
wash them at this lesson, and ten at the next. They must be 
washed in two cold waters, then made as dry as possible, and 
put by the fire. Now eight girls shall have half a pound of 
flour. The salt must first be sprinkled into the dry flour, 
then the diipping be rubbed in, and sugar and currants or 
seeds added ; the Qgg ought to be broken into a basin first, 
to see whether it is a good one. After it has been well beaten, 
the yeast and milk should be added, and all mixed gradually 
with the flour until a smooth paste is made, which must be 
well kneaded and allowed to rise for twenty minutes ; the 
cake should then be made into either buns, teacakes, or cur- 
rant loaf, and put on a tin. Before the cakes are put to 
bake in the oven, they must stand before the fire to rise again 
for a few minutes. The tins in which the loaf or teacakes 
are baked must first have a little dripping rubbed in them to 
prevent the cake from sticking to the sides. 

Required — A thermometer. 





Ck)st 


8, d. 


Monday 




. 1 


Tuesday 




. 1 


Wednesday . 




. 1 


Thursday 




. 1 


Friday 




. 1 
5 



BREAD, BUNS, TEACAKES. 



Monday 

Tuesday 

Wednesday 

Thursday 

Friday 



Sold. 



s. 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 

6 



d. 










d. 




Bought and sold for one week ; the folioN«\Ti% 'v^^ \?aft %»!bcl^« ^«*wi^ ^®^^ 
had uponoy bun, wliich just coveted \iie ^x^ea^i^ o^ ^^ ^wst^'^^J*'*^'^'^ 



Money expenses 
Money received 



8, 

5 
5 



30 SIXTH LESSON. 

milk. They were very much larger than those sold in the shops. In the 
second week of bread-making, we put in for a change currants, seeds, and 
one egg, with a little lard. These buns were also sold for a penny each. 

Questions for Fifth Lesson. 

1. How would you find out when an oven was the right heat for baking 

bread if you had no thermometer ? 

2. Why will a loaf of bread be sad or heavy if it is first put on the top 

shelf in an oven, instead of being first put for about ten minutes 
on the bottom shelf? 

3. How would you make a bun or teacake with or without currants, 

also a seed or currant loaf? 

Receipts for Fifth Lesson. 

CuBBANT Bt7NS, Sekd Bt7MS or Teacakbs. — 2 lbs. of fiour, ^ a tea- 
spoonful of salt, 2 oz. of dripping, 1 egg; German yeast ^ oz. ; half pint 
of milk (lukewarm) ; small teaspoonful of carraway seed or 3 oz. of cur- 
rants ; 3 oz. of sugar. 

The currants should be very carefully washed and dried. 

Rock Buns. — Melt in a basin 3 oz. of butter or dripping (do not make 
it too hot), stir in 1 lb. of fiour, i lb. sugar (3 oz. of currants or an ounce of 
seeds, which yon like best), 1 oz. of candied peel. Whisk 2 eggs to a fix>th, 
mix half a gill of milk with the eggs, then work the whole together and 
bake in a moderate oven. 



SIXTH LESSON. 

COOKERY^continued, 

BOIL ASD POACH AN BGG — GBILL A MUTTON CHOP OB BEBF STEAK — 

BOIL POTATOES — BGQ SANDWICHES. 

To-DAT you are to learn how to cook an egg in its shell, and 
how to poach one, so that the white part shall be soft and 
well done, without a clock to tell yon how many minutes 
these eggs have been in the water ; how to grill a mutton 
chop on a gridiron so that none of the flavouring matter, 
called osmazome, shall escape, or any of the gravy or juices 
jvn oat; and how to boU some potatoes. 

T/i0 egga and mutton chop are "both, auimsl iocA^ wi^ V^aa 



BOILING WATER. 31 

potato is a vegetable food. There are some people who think 
that they only take animal food when they eat beef, mutton, 
pork, poultry, game, or fish, but they also eat and drink 
animal foods when they take eggs, milk, butter, cream, 
cheese, dripping, suet, lard, cod-liver oil, because all these 
foods are taken from animals, and are therefore animal foods. 
There are also persons who think that they only take vege- 
tables when they eat potatoes, cabbages, or any green stuff 
that grows in a garden ; but a vegetable is anything that 
grows in the earfch, such as com (which is ground into flour 
and made into bread), oatmeal, rice, sugar, &o. When you 
have been taught how to cook one kind of animal food you 
will soon learn by practice how to cook all animal foods ; and 
when you have learned how to cook a potato you will soon 
learn in the same way how to cook every kind of vegetable. 
The great art of cooking is not to let any of the good things 
that each food contains get out and be wasted during the cook- 
ing, and to make the food tender, so that our teeth can chop 
it up. Before we cook an egg we will find out what the 
principal things are which an egg contains by examining the 
contents of these bottles that are placed in tins stand. Albu- 
men, &c. 

As these substances are dried you must not expect to find 
that they will have the same colour as they would if they 
were in the fresh food, or be as large in quantity ; the most 
important substance is albumen, because it nourishes our 
nerves, flesh, and muscles. It is made hard and indigestible 
for delicate stomachs when cooked in boiling water. Water 
boils when the quicksilver in the thermometer rises to 212°, as 
I will prove to you by putting this thermometer into a kettle 
of boiling water. You know that a kettle is boiling when the 
steam pours out through the spout as it is now doing. If we 
were to let the kettle boil a little longer, all the water would 
be changed into steam and fly up the chimney, and the kettle 
would be left empty and bum. Remember that all foods 
when they really boil at 212° are being changed into steam 
and fly up the chimney. The French people are the hee.i %ss.^ 
most economical cooks ia the worVd \ SkL% ^T«\»\«e»Rk\i.^'^^««2^'^ 
girl 18 taught by Jior mistrosB is io gooV e^«t^ ^^^ ig^^xsJGs.^ ^^as^^ 



32 SIXTH LESSON. 

well. The English are the most wasteful and worst cooks in 
the world, because they do not understand anything about the 
nature of the food they cook, and because they think that if a 
saucepan with food is put on the fire and boils away they have 
done all that is necessary. If you read what is written on 
that sheet on the wall, you will learn at what degree of heat 
food should be cooked, which is about 180°. 

We will now put the thermometer into a kettle of boiling 
water. You see the quicksilver has risen to 212°, called 
boiling point. The quicksilver will never rise any higher in 
boiling water, because water cannot be made any hotter than 
boiling heat. We will now put the thermometer into this 
pan of water that is hanging on the hook, or recon, over the 
fire. You see the quicksilver rises and stands till opposite 
the figure 180°, that is called simmering heat, and is the 
right heat at which animal and vegetable foods should be 
cooked. Now we will put the thermometer into this little 
pan of water that stands on the brig ; it is, you see, also at 
simmering heat, 180°. You would find that if you were to 
let a pan of water boil on the fire and then put it on the hob 
or on the top of your oven at home, the food in the pan 
would keep simmering at the right heat, 180°. Two or three 
pans with food can be safely cooking at the same time when 
they are put on the hob, or where the food will not boil and 
spoil. A cook need not then be in a fright or fuss lest her 
dinner should be spoiled, because she is not obliged to watch 
the saucepans every instant. I have seen a very large dinner 
beautifully cooked by a fireplace exactly like those in your 
houses, which had only a small open grate, an oven on one 
side, a small boiler on the other, and a recon over the fire on 
which a large saucepan with a round handle like ours could 
hang. The food in these pans was first boiled on the fire for 
about ^ve minutes before the pans were put on the difierent 
places I have named to simmer. The cook began to prepare 
the dinner early, and therefore allowed nearly twice the time 
for cooking each food. 

Before we cook an egg I will show you a raw one, so that 

j^on majr see how the albumen, or white part, looks before it 

js cooked, and then you pball see a hard \>o\\ed ^^^ \»Wi V^aa 



EGGS. — MUTTON CHOPS. 38 

been boiled for five minutes in boiling water, so that you may 
compare it with an egg that is properly cooked without being 
boiled at 212°. 

I will put this pan of water on the fire to boil. Directly it 
really boils I shall take the pan off, and instantly put this fresh 
egg into the water, cover the pan with a lid to keep in the 
steam, and put the pan on the fender. When the egg has 
remained in the water for about five minutes, as far as I can 
guess, I shall take it out, because you remember we are not to 
look at a clock. A stale or a bad egg, like bad meat, cannot 
be made to look right, however you may cook it. As about 
five or six minutes have now passed, I will take the egg out 
and just break the top for you to see how creamy and nice the 
white looks, and that it is just stiff enough. The white part 
of an underdone egg looks slimy and disagreeable. 

We must also poach an egg in the same way, that is cook 
one without its shell. I have an egg all ready in this cup. 
Directly the water quite boils I will take the pan off the fire, 
slip the egg in, put on the lid, and let the pan stand for about 
five or six minutes on the fender, which is not quite cold ; a 
hob, recon, or brig would be too hot. An egg cannot be 
cooked in this way by guess, unless the saucepan has a lid to 
cover up the top and keep in the heat and steam. 

The mutton chop and potatoes we are going to cook are for 
a delicate person who has a poor appetite, and wants a very 
tempting little dinner that can easily be digested. If every- 
thing is not very hot, our little dinner will be spoiled. A 
mutton chop or beefsteak ought to be carried straight frorn^ 
the fire to the person who is to eat it ; the plates must there- 
fore be put where they can get hot, and we must get the 
tray ready, cover it with this little white cloth, see that the 
salt-cellar is clean and filled with clean salt, and that the 
tumbler is very bright, the water fresh, and everything as 
nice as it can possibly be. As a mutton chop will be cooked 
in a much shorter time than the potatoes, I put two pota- 
toes into this saucepan just before you all arrived, so that 
they might be ready when the chop was done. Before w^ 
cook the mutton chop I must tell ^otjl \!bai(» tdco^Jwsb- Ssa^ ^sasas^ 
food and contains albumen and ttie «»x[i<& ^oJaeNftSvfifc^ ^Qoai^ 



34 . SIXTH LESSON. 

to be fonnd in an egg, I mast also remind yon that the great 
art of cooking is not to let any of the good things that each 
food contains get out and be wasted, and to make the food 
tender so that our teeth can chop it np. This fine chop is full 
of juice and albumen. We must let the heat of the fire be so 
great that it will instantly harden the albumen that is on the 
outside of the meat so that the juices cannot run out. The fire 
must be very hot and the coals all red, not black and smoky ; 
a black fire sends out too little heat to harden the albumen 
quickly, and the smoke that comes from it would make the 
chop taste of soot. Our gridiron, which is only a thick iron 
one, must be put on the fire to get warm before the chop is 
put on to it, or the raw meat would stick to the cold iron bars. 
Some cooks have a dirty habit of rubbing grease over the 
bars, but you must never do this, only make them warm. We 
will now put the chop on the gridiron with a spoon and knife ; 
take care never to stick a fork into a chop or beefsteak, or 
the juices will run out of the holes made by the fork. A fine 
large chop will be well cooked in twelve minutes if it is 
turned every two minutes, and eighteen minutes if it is turned 
every minute; a small chop will take about ten minutes if 
turned every two minutes; at the famous chop house at 
Bamsley the chops are turned every minute and take twenty 
minutes. A. chop when properly cooked in this way will be 
fall of gravy and ought to be eaten with a hot potato and a 
little pepper and salt ; never put butter on a chop or gravy in 
the dish. If any of you would like to buy a chop next week, 
and two potatoes cooked in their skins, I could let you cook 
the chop and also prepare the potatoes yourselves ; the chop 
and potatoes will cost 4d, 

Now that our chop and potatoes are done, I will teach 
you how to wash potatoes and cook them. Potatoes and all 
vegetables must be washed in cold water, but not allowed 
to stand in it ; great care should be taken that all the dirt is 
got out of the holes ; a clean old scrubbing brush takes it 
out best. Two potatoes were all we wanted to-day; never 
bdl^ as some careless cooks do, more than are wanted. Pota- 
^es should alwBjB he boiled in their skins, because there is a 
^^arkyr substance in the skin of a potato 'vrtac\i y^n^tA^ ««? 



CHOPS AND POTATOES. 35 

water from entering the potato, and also prevents any of the 
juices and good things from getting out. The two potatoes 
must be the same size, because a large one would take more 
time to cook than a small one, and they would not be ready 
at the same time. They should be put into a pan of boiling 
water, and affcer they have boiled for about five minutes on 
the fire, the pan should hang on the recon and the potatoes 
cook until they are tender ; the potatoes should have plenty 
of room in the saucepan and be well covered over with 
water. 

I will now boil the two soft-boiled eggs I cooked at the 
beginning of the lesson, until they are hard, and then make 
sandwiches, as we must not waste them. Hard-boiled eggs 
make excellent sandwiches for people who have a strong 
digestion, prepared in the following way : cut some slices of 
bread and butter, chop up the white and yolk of the hard 
eggs into very small pieces, and add salt and pepper to taste ; 
when all is well mixed up spread the egg with a spoon over 
the bread and butter, and then put a slice of bread and butter 
over the minced egg. 

Egg sandwiches are very good and nourishing food for 
people who go long journeys, and for teachers to take as part 
of their lunch. 

Required for Lesson. 

Component parts of an egg. 

Sheet "with the efSdct of heat on albumen and the proper heat for 

cooking. 
A thermometer. 
Kettle with boiling water. 
Fan with water at 180°. 



Questwns for Sixth Lesson. 

1. How would you cook a fresh egg, or poach one, so that the white 

part (called albumen) should be soft and well done, if you had no 
dock to tell you how long the egg had remained in the water ? 

2. How would you cook a mutton chop or beefsteak on the gridiron so 

that all the gravy and juices should be ke^t va.^ ^sA'^^ -oaRR^N^^ 
tender and tempting for a de\\c&V.e «\AT[i«j(^^ 
S, How would you boil a potato or any Negje^a^^^'^ 



36 SEVENTH LESSON. 



Receipts for Sixth Lesson, 

How TO COOK AN Egg WITHOUT BOILING IT. — ^Let a pan of warm water 
thoroughly boil. As the pan is lifted from the fire have an egg ready in 
the hand to put in, and instantly cover the pan to keep in the steam, place 
it on the warm fender and let it remain for four or five minutes, when the 
egg will be done. A poached egg is done in exactly the same way. 

Geill a. Mutton Chop ob Bbefsteak. — Place the chop on a clean 
warm gridiron, with a knife and spoon, so that no holes are made in the 
flesh to let out the gravy ; the gridiron must first be warmed or the chop 
will stick to the bars ; the fire ought to be very bright and red, and the chop 
turned once every two minutes. A large chop takes twelve minutes and 
a thin one about ten. A beefsteak is cooked in the same way. 

Egg Sandwiches. — Boil an egg until it is quite hard, chop fine, add a 
little pepper and salt to taste, cut two slices of bread and butter, put the 
chopped egg on one slice and cover over witli the other, then cut the 
slices into convenient sizes. 



SEVENTH LESSON. 

/ 

COOKESY--continued, 

boast beef — TOEKSHIBB PUDDING CABBAGE OR CAULIFLOWBB. 

Before we roast beef I must let you look at the contents of 
these six bottles, which contain the principal substances to be 
found in one pound of beef — albumen, osmazome or flavouring 
matter, &c. 

We will now weigh the little joint, which is a piece of thin 
flank. As it weighs 1^ lbs. it will take three quarters of an honr 
to roast, because we allow nearly half an hour for each pound 
when there is a great deal of gristle and bone in the joint (a 
quarter of an hour is the usual time). People do not gene- 
rally consider this a good joint, nor many others that have a 
good deal of bone and gristle, but they would not think so if 
they had once eaten such joints when they had been well 
cooked. Our butcher tells me that it is quite sad to see how 
fvomcn come in a great fuss and ask for something that can 
^ cooked quickly before their huBbandfi coma "ViOTCkft^ wA 



JSMji 




KU?T I^KF. S7 



tlkerefciie caniic*! bsT the c\xd, cbekp joiii*^ iLai aJ-^-iad Latc 
been cookmz for him for a Tierr ItSixff tixoe. so ihiX they mielit 
be tihor D TighlT done. A buBAstt and sbcvnlder of m^inoin onrfit to 
baxe ti>e sMne tade. asd iben tber are exeelkait, Xow that 
the meat has been wedghod. we viH wash it hy dapping it into 
ibas pan of le r n hot water, and then dry it- AH bntcber's 
meat should be washed in the same wax befos^ it is cooked. 
becansie it often ootdcs from a dirty slaaachter-honae and is car- 
ried in dirtr carts cr on the heads of butchers* bors. The meat 
is also saraedmBs wrapped in newspaper, and the newspaper 
- g*a<*V^ BO fast to the meat that it cannot be aD removed nnlfss 
it is washed off. Newspaper is covered over with ink. which 
eootaixis some poisonous substances, and iherefoi^ onght never 
to be used to wrap np or cover any kind of focd. A finend of 
mine told me that he once bad a calf s head for dinner upon 
^wbicb he fonnd small pieces of newsjwper. Butchers are 
Boznedmes injured by even handling: diseased meat. Thongh 
Bonie profisaacd cooks will tell yon never to wash meat, they 
do wash it themselves with the drippinir with which they 
baste the joint while it is r^MLStinxr, If the meat is boikd it 
is made clean by the water in which it is cooked. This 
-water is kept and made into sonp. for it shonld never be 
tiirtrirn away and wasted. 

Dripping onght to be vety clean, as it is nsed for p*strr. 
frying. Ac., and a Yorkshire pndding is always placed nnder 
the meat to receive some of the dipping. Before we bang 
the joint in front of the fire we must see that our fine is 
bngbt and red, so that it will seoid out a great deal of beat to 
harden the albumen on the ontside of the flesh, and so keep 
in aU the jnioes. gravy, ic. The joint shonld be pWed very 
near the fire for the first ten minutes, and then be nemoved 
to about a foot, with a sci^cen pnt partlv aionnd it to pxevent 
the cold air from carryinir off the heat. I wish you pardca- 
larly to notice that raV beef has none of the good odoar or 
smell which comes out while it is loastinir. fills the air of the 
Ititeben^d makes y oxxr mouth water if wu an? vwy^^^gry 
The substance tbat cs^xis^ this peculiar odour is calkd 

^^P^'^^^J a certain ^^^Y^d-LSa 



38 SEVENTH LESSON. 

it out. This flavouring matter helps people to digest their 
food. Boasting is the most vfholesome v^ay of cooking meat, 
because if it is properly done the outside of the meat can be 
hardened so that the juices and osmazome cannot escape ; 
and if a kitchen is well ventilated, has plenty of fresh air 
brought in from the top part of an open window, so that there 
will be no draught at the hoUom of the room, the oxygen in 
the fresh air will constantly pass into and through the meat 
which is roasting, mix with any burnt fat on the outside, and 
change it so that it will not be unwholesome and indigestible 
when eaten. You see how important it is that a kitchen oven 
or any place where food is cooked should have a good supply 
of &esh air. The fat on the outside of our joint is beginning 
to melt ; we must therefore baste it by pouring the melted 
fat or dripping over the meat. The hot fat will help to cook 
the meat, prevent the meat from burning, and keep in the 
juices, &c. 

It is now time we washed the cabbage. The outer leaves 
which do not look quite fresh must be taken off, a piece cut 
off the stem, and two deep cuts made in the shape of a cross 
down into the heart of the leaves, so that the cold water 
and salt it is washed in can get among the leaves. The salt 
will kill any grubs, and they will fall out into the water. 
Children have had tapeworm from eating raw or unwashed 
greens. After the cabbage has remained in the water and 
salt for about five minutes it must be rinsed in another cold 
water or be held under the tap. We will not crush the cab- 
bage up in a small saucepan, but put it into one that is suffi- 
ciently large, filled with boiling water and a little salt and 
soda to keep the green colour. The cover of the pan can be 
left on. When the pan with the cabbage has boiled about five 
minutes on the fire, it shall hang on the recon and remain 
there until the cabbage is quite tender. 

After the Yorkshire pudding has been made I will tell you 

why all vegetables grow bigger while they are being cooked. 

We do not cook our vegetables half long enough in England, 

and they are therefore considered indigestible foods. The 

French and Q-ermanB eat nearly double the quantity of vege- 

tabJea that the Engliab people do, and tiie^ 4o "aoV. ^^y&c qe 



YORKSHIRE* PUDDING. — VEGETABLES. 39 

much as we do from stomach complaints. When a vegetable 
is taken out of the saucepan, it ought to have aU the water 
squeezed out by being put into a basin called a colander, and 
a plate should be placed on the top to press your hands on 
to squeeze out the water. If a colander is not to be got, the 
cabbage can be put into a potato -steamer, with a plate on the 
top to press out the water. The water must be got out by 
some means. Take care never to throw the water in which a 
cabbage has been boiled down the sink, because the house will 
then be filled with a bad smell, which tells directly that the 
cook is a very careless person. Cabbage-water should be 
thrown on to the ash-pit. 

Receipt for Yorkshire Pvdding — Ingredients, — 1 gill of milk; 
2 tablespoonfuls of flour ; 1 egg and a pinch of salt. Put 
the flour and salt into a basin as for bread, make a hole in 
the centre, and gradually stir enough of the gill of milk to 
make the flour into a very smooth paste ; break the egg into a 
basin ; when it has been well beaten, add it to the paste and 
the remainder of the milk. The whole pudding should then 
be mixed up very quickly together, and poured into the hot 
greased tin and put on the bottom of the oven for three 
minutes; then place it under the roast meat for one hour. 
About 1 oz. of dripping should be put into the tin and 
left to bubble, when it will be the time to pour in the batter. 

The lightness of the pudding depends a good deal on 
this. 

Boast meat that is of good quality ought to contain 
enough gravy, and should not be sent to the table with any 
made gravy in the dish. (3ravy is good to the Yorkshire 
pudding, and can be sent by itself.* 

While the dinner is cooking I will tell you why all green 
vegetables swell when they are cooked. I have brought all 
the principal substances that are found in one pound of pota- 
toes, and amongst them you see this large bottle filled with 
starch. This starch is like common starch used to stiffen 
linen. If you could see a little of it through a microscope 
you would find that it was made of little bags or cells such as 
you see drawn in this picture. Directly these liitXsk ^jsx^:3^ 
cells become hot they sweU aaA gcwi TKQ.OcL^s^^ei|?^t^ ^^ "^"^^ 



42 EIQUTU LESSOK. 

with currants, and baked potatoes. The children shall each 
have a large piece of good bread, and then I think they will 
all have foods that will nonrish their flesh, noiake them fat, and 
strengthen their bones. . I always go to the most respectable 
shopkeepers and buy the best, because the best contains the 
most nourishment, and therefore is the cheapest. The best 
foods are also the cheapest, because they are in season, and 
therefore very plentiful. There is a proper time of year for 
every kind of animal and vegetable food — for instance, eggs are 
very dear in winter, because hens don't lay at that time ; they 
begin to lay in the spring, and then they are very good and 
plentiful. Oranges are cheap and good in the early spring, but 
in the autumn they are bad and dear. Fishmongers can sell 
any flsh cheap when it is in season. Salmon is so scarce at 
Christmas time that people have paid as much as lO^r. per 
pound for it, and after all it would not taste as good as it does 
in the spring, when it is only Is. 6d, per pound. Haddocks 
are now in season, and I therefore bought this large one for 
6d, The flesh of fish, though it is white, will turn into flesh, 
nerves, and muscles in the body, just as red meat, beef, and 
mutton, do. As there is not so much fat in a fish as there 
is in butcher's meat, I bought suet, which is an animal's fat, 
and is suitable for those who are working hard. I shall 
make a stuffing with the suet, as well as use it for the pudding. 
The sugar in the pudding will turn into fat; children like 
sugar, but cannot eat much animal fat ; children should eat a *' 
good deal of sugar at their meals. The bread will feed their 
flesh and bones and also make fat, because of the starch 
there is in bread, which turns into fat. We must always 
have a fresh vegetable to make the blood pure, as I will ex- 
plain at another lecture. 

Now we will begin to prepare the foods which are all ready 
so that we can see them. As the suet pudding will take the 
longest time, we will now begin to chop the suet ; but first 
we must take off* any bits of skin. You must learn to chop 
food properly ; hold the handle of the knife in your left hand 
quite steady, and lift the blade with the other in this way. 
Snet should he very finely chopped ; a little flour should be 
epiinkled over it wMle it is being chopped to ^g^K5^en^»^i5ckB^\s«.«R 



SUET PUDDING AND BAKED HADDOCK. 43 

from sticking together. If they do the paste will be sad, not 
light. The currants must be washed. I have arranged that 
half of you should wash currants, and the other half chop suet ; 
as we have so many cooks the pudding will soon be ready. 

Suet Fudding tvith either Ourrants or Raisins. — 3 oz. of 
finely chopped suet, \ lb. of flour, \ lb. of clean, dry raisins or 
currants, 2 oz. of sugar, pinch of salt. All these ingredients 
are to be mixed together with sufficient cold milk or water to 
make into a rather stiff paste ; tie up in a cloth which has 
been dipped in hot water and then sprinkled over with flour ; 
boil at least two hours. A plate should be put under the 
pudding, and the pudding be kept well coyered with boiling 
water. 

Directions for pudding cloth on page 44. 

Now that our pudding is on the fire we must clean the 
fish. I have placed, you see, a piece of paper over the table, 
so that there may be no mess made ; we must not only bo 
very clean, but very orderly. I shall notice which of you do 
your work the best. Fish not thoroughly well washed has 
been known to make people very ill. When the inside has 
been taken out, wash the fish well, particularly about the 
mouth and head, as the mouth may contain some bad food 
that the fish has been eating ; eels and crabs eat anything they 
find. Give fish at least two waters. In fresh fish the eyes 
look full and bright ; the eyes of stale fish look dull ; the gills 
must be a bright pink, not a dark dull red. I will tell you 
more about fish when you learn to fry it. Before we prepare 
any other food we will wash our hands. The stufl&ng must 
now be made, just enough to till the inside of the fish ; look 
well at the space to be filled that we may not make too 
much stufiing. We chopped enough suet when we made the 
pudding, so we shall only have to chop the parsley ; it should 
be well washed in cold water. No vegetables should stand in 
water for more than two or three minutes. Then chop the 
parsley as you were taught to chop the suet. 

Stuffing for Baked Haddock, — 2 oz. of suet, 3 oz. of 
bread crumbs, 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley, pepper and 
salt to taste ; 1 egg is to be well beaten, to ^\i\sJx ^^^ "^^^ovii^* 
2 tahlespoonfuh of either miVk ot Yja^er^^'etixxM^^iSS.*^^ ^a^ 



» 



44 EIGHTH LESSON. 

gredients together. Fill the haddock with this stuffing and 
close the opening with a skewer (some people sew it up) ; 
bake one honr, baste well with dripping. 

Fill the inside of the fish with the stuffing, and put it into 
the dish, the inside of which must be greased with a little 
dripping. The haddock will be well cooked in about an 
hour. 

The potatoes we require for baking. A baked potato must 
never be cooked in a cold oven, as when cooked it should be 
quite crisp but not burnt. The oven should be so hot that 
flour will turn brown as it did for bread-baking. The potato 
skin contains cork, such as you put in bottles to prevent water 
from coming out. A small piece of cork swells very big in 
the stomach. You must never eat the potato skin. A baked 
potato is more digestible than if boiled ; it digests in much 
less time than a boiled one. A roasted potato digests in two 
hours, a boiled one in three hours and a half. The corky 
skin keeps in aU the juices (like the egg shell), and the juices 
help the food to digest. 

We shall now wash up very quickly, as we can divide 
the work. First, take the inside of the fish, except the liver, 
which will feed the cat, the skin off the suet, and the potato 
peelings, and put them under the grate ; cover them over ivith 
hot ashes, and brush them quite to the back ; after an hour 
the hot ashes will have taken away any smell, so that when 
you make up the fire you can throw these things on the back 
.of the fire, when they will burn and feed the fire as coals do. 
I shall only let you bum what cannot be eaten, or thrown into 
the swill-tub. People should never keep a swill-tub unless 
they have a pig, and an outhouse. 

Directions for Boiling a Pudding and the best method 
of washing and drying a Pudding Cloth. 

A pudding should always be put into boiling water, and 

then only allowed to simmer ; the water must be some inches 

above the top of the pudding, lest it should simmer away and 

Jeave the pudding uncovered ; an old plate chipped at the 

e(^8 should he kept to place at the bottom o^ >i)aft ^g«SL\ft ^t^- 



PUDDING CLOTHS. 



45 



vent the pudding from sticking. Directly the clotli is taken 
off it should be put to soak in water, then well washed in hot 
water and soda (never soap), well rinsed in clean water, 
and put out of doors, whether it be wet or dry, as no cloth 
will be quite sweet unless it has had plenty of fresh air ; care 
must be taken to keep it in a dry place when it is folded up 
ready to put by. A pudding cloth will stick to the pudding 
unless, just before it covers the pudding, it is first dipped into 
boiling water, squeezed dry, and sprinkled over with a little 
flour. Harding is the best material for a pudding cloth, 
it costs 6d. per yard ; a yard will make two good-sized ones. 

Notes^ — Girls can be chopping small quantities of suet and 
parsley, as the methods are the same. 

As the girls like to buy the food, they should be told the 
previous week what the dinner of the following week is to be, 
and then they can bring baskets and their money, &c. 



Ingredients Required, 



Fish. 
Suet. 
Parsley. 
Salt. 



Flour. 
Currants. 
Sugar. 
Potatoes. 



Appa7*atus, 

Slat©, on which the dinner for the day is written. 
No. 5 Sheet, about working-men and * body-warmers.' 
No. 6 Sheet, with ' body- warmers ' and ' flesh-warmers.' 
Bought and sold for one week ; following week the same. 
The haddock was divided into three twopenny worths for each girl that 
wanted to buy, and two potatoes roasted and a little brown sauce. This 
was sold to three girls; the same girls had each one pennyworth of 
pudding ; what was left of the pudding was sold in pennyworths with a 
little sugar sprinkled over. 



Baked Stuffed Haddock, Currant and Suet Puddiv{f. 



Cost. 


8. d. 


Monday , , 


. 1 2 


Tuesday 


. 1 1 


Wednesday . 


. 1 


Thursday . 


. 10 


Friday 


. 10 




4 11 



Sold. 



Monday 

Tuesday 

Wednesday 

Thursday 

Friday 



\ 



8. d, 
10 
8 
8 
8 
a 



46 NINTH LESSON. 

a. c2. 

Money expenses 4 II 

Money received .36 

Balance due 15 

Questiond for Eighth Lesson. 

1. "Why do men and boys who work hard require a good deal of food 

that makes fat, called,' body- warmers ' ? 

2. The suet pudding and stuffing contain the following foods — suet, 

sugar, flour. Tell me which of these foods will make fat, called 
* body warmers' ? Why will flour make fat, flesh, and bone ? 

3. How would you clean a pudding cloth, and where would you put it 

when it was washed ? 

4. What would you do with the inside of the fish, the skin off the suet, 

and the baked skins of the potatoes ? 

Receipts for Eighth Lesson. 

Suet Pudding with eithbb Cubeants or Raisins. — 3 oz. of 
finely-chopped suet, i lb. of flour, J lb. of clean, dry raisins or currants, 
2 oz. of sugar, pinch of salt. All these ingredients are to be mixed to- 
gether with sufficient cold milk or water to make into a rather stiflT paste; 
tie up in a cloth which has been dipped in hot water and then sprinkled 
over with flour ; boil at least two hours. A plate should be put under the 
pudding and the pudding be kept well covered with boiling water. 

Stuffing fok Bailbd Haddock. — 2 oz. of suet, 3 oz. of bread crumbs, 
1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley, pepper and salt to taste. 1 egg is to be 
well beaten, to which add about 2 tablespoonfuls of either milk or Vater, 
then mix all the ingredients together. Fill the haddock with this stuffing 
and close the opening with a skewer (some people sew it up) ; bake one 
hour, baste well with dripping. 



NINTH LESSON. 

CO OKER Y-^continued, 

boiled TBIPB, onion sauce — FRE8EBVE TUBNOVBBS — CLABIFY DRIFPIKO. 

Teipb is very digestible animal food if it is quite fresh, the 

coarse fat cut oflP, and the tripe thoroughly well cooked. I have 

bought' one pound ready dressed, which we will first weigh 

And then wash. As we wish to keop ^la. eiXV ^e ^-^cyoLT %sA 



TRIPE. 47 

juices, and make the meat look white, we must pnt it into 
boiling water, with a cup of skim milk ; the milk will make 
the tripe white, and by boiling five minntes the albumen on 
the outside will be hardened and the juices kept in; after 
that time the pan must hang on the recon, where it will be 
kept simmering until the meat is well done, which will be in 
about an hour and a quarter. Tripe that has not been dressed 
requires nearly double that time. When the onions for the 
sauce are peeled they shall be put into a pan well covered 
over with boiling water, a little salt added, and allowed to 
cook slowly for an hour until they are tender. Remember an 
old knife must be kept entirely for peeling onions. A cook is 
both dirty and careless who uses a knife to cut any kind of 
food after it has once cut an onion, and who does not wash 
her hands before she touches any other food. 

Onurn Sauce, — First boil 3 onions, then chop finely, 
add 1 pint of boiling milk that has been thickened with a 
teaspoon^l of flour, flavour with pepper and salt, and simmer 
altogether for five minutes. 

Clarifying Dripping. — Pour boiling water into the basin 
that contains the dripping, and stir the water and dripping up 
well together, then let it remain until cold. Then take off the 
cake, and put into a jar just to melt in the oven. When the 
dripping cake is cold it will be very clean, and keep for some 
time, as the second melting down, or rendering, as it is called, 
has sent out all the water. Fat that rises on water in which 
beef, mutton, or veal has been boiled, should be clarified in the 
same way. 

Savoury Puddi/ng. — 3 oz. of bread, 3 oz. of oatmeal, 3 oz. 
of suet, 1 teaspoonf ul or 6 leaves of sage, 3 large onions, 1 egg^ 
and 1 gill of milk. Soak the bread in the milk until quite 
soft, boil the onions in plenty of water; when tender chop 
them up very fine ; the suet also must be chopped very fine ; 
then add them to the soaked bread with the oatmeal. Mix all 
the ingredients well together. Just before putting the pudding 
into the oven, add the egg well beaten, pepper and salt to 
taste. Put an ounce of dripping into the pudding tin, make 
it hot before you pour the pudding m*, >ad.\L<& >2ccc«fe-^5^^>2«?^»'"s^^'^ 
an boar. 



48 NINTH LESSON. 

Yon are now going to learn how to make and bake 
dripping pastry. Watch all I do, and try and remember all 
I say, as I intend that each of yon shall make a jam tnmover 
at the next lesson. It is mnch more difficult to make light 
pastry in hot than in cold weather, because the cook's hot 
hands and the hot air of the room melt the fat, whether it be 
dripping, saet, or butter, so that it sticks to the flour and 
makes a gluey heavy substance instead of a light paste. The 
cook's hot hands, the rolling pin and paste-board, all get sticky, 
and are constantly obliged to be sprinkled over with fresh 
flour ; the paste then becomes too stiff. A cook always makes 
her pastry in a cool room, and if her master is rich will make 
it on a marble instead of a wooden paste-board. A large clean 
slate or a tile o& a house does as well. The quantities of flour, 
dripping, and water we shall require must now be measured. 
To one pound of flour we put four ounces of dripping, and 
always rni^ one pound of flour with rather less than a gill of 
cold water. This basin you remember just holds one pound 
of flour, this mug one gill, and this tablespoon one ounce. 
Lest the flour should not be quite dry I put it in a basin on 
the top of the oven for a short time ; if the flour were the 
least damp the pastry could not be light. This dripping looks ' 
very white because it has been nicely clarified, and it will taste 
as sweet as it looks. Bub the flour and dripping gently toge- 
ther, when this is done make a little hole in the centre, pour 
the water in gradually, and mix all together with the cool 
blade of a very clean knife. Before the paste is put on the 
pasteboard just sprinkle a little flour over it, and the rolling 
pin as well ; knead the paste lightly, and do not press heavily 
on the rolling pin. When the paste is rolled out to the thick- 
ness of an inch cut it out into round shapes with a small plate ; 
the jam should then be put on half the round cake, the edges 
just wetted with a little water, and the other half be turned 
over the jam, and the edges be pressed together. The lightest 
and best pastry will be made heavy if the heat of the oven is 
not exactly right ; if too cold the paste won't rise up, and if 
too hot it will be burnt. If there is no thermometer in the 
oren, sprinkle a pinch, of flour on the bottom shelf, as you did 
-M? bread-baking: if the flour turns a mce \iTQrwcL m «* ^«erw 



DEIPPING PASTRY. 49 

seconds the heat will do ; 400° should be the heat by a ther- 
mometer. Bemember to put the paste on the bottom shelf for 
five minutes, and then put it on the top one to get brown, as 
you did with the bread. 

We wiU now clarify this dripping. Clarify is a long word, 
which means to make clear or clean. Dripping which drops 
from clean meat which has been washed will not contain dirt, 
only bits of the outside of the meat or cinders that have fallen 
into it, because the dripping pan was put too near the fire. 
Dripping is made clear* by pouring boiling water over it in a 
basin, and by stirring the water and dripping together with a 
spoon. When the dripping has become quite cold, it forms a 
hard cake and rises to the top of the water, because dripping 
is £Ett, and fat or oil is much lighter than water, and will 
therefore float on the top of it, just as a piece of wood will 
float. I have some oil and water in this bottle, and you can 
see how the oil rests on the top. You might try and mix 
them together for ever, but they would separate when the 
bottle had remained still for a short time. 

The little bits of dirt or cinder are heavier than the fat or 
water, and therefore sink to the bottom of the water in the 
basin. The dripping cake must be put into a jar in the oven 
until melted, to send out the water in the fat, or it will not 
keep. Dripping should be kept in a cool place, and it will 
then be good for some time. Dripping prepared in the way 
directed is the most nourishing fat next to butter. 

The following information is to be given when tripe is not 
to be got. A small joint of pork should be roasted, and a 
savoury pudding made. Pork, and all flesh of the pig, requires 
to be cooked very slowly and well, because sometimes a little 
creature lives in the flesh called ' Trichina.' The German 
and Russian people suffer very much from a dreadful com- 
plaint because they have the bad custom of eating pork and 
ham that has not been cooked, only salted, dried and smoked. 
These creatures are killed by boiling water, or the heat of an 
oven which is 400°, or by roasting the meat thoroughly and 
slowly before a fire. We are going to roast a small joint 
of pork and make a savoury pudding. "W^ n«^ ^jcc^ ^^g^si^ 
the pork, that weighs 2 Iba., -very ^o^ \iO ^iJc^a ^^ ^^^s^ "^^^ 



60 NINTH LESSON. 

minutes, and then draw it away and let it have half an boor 
for each pound. 

Questions for Ninth Lesson. 

1. Why is a pie-crust or any kind of pastry very sad and tough when 

it is made in a hot room and by a cook who has hot hands ? 

2. "Why is pastry not light when it is made by a cook who presses the 

rolling pin down heavily on to the paste ? 

3. How would you find out that the oven was the right heat for 

baking pastry? 

4. When a cook cleans or clarifies dripping she puts it into a basin 

and pours boiling water over it, and stirs the water and dripping 
weU together. Tell me why the dripping rises to the top of . the 
water, and the dirt &lls to Uie bottom of the basin. 



Receipts for Ninth Lesson. 

Onion Sauce. — First boil 3 onions, or about 1 lb., in sufficient water 
until tender, then chop finely; make a sauce of 1 pint of boiling milk 
thickened with a tablespoonful of flour, season with pepper and Salt ; add 
the onions to the sauce, and simmer altogether for five minutes. 

CiAEiFYiNG Dedpping. — Pour boiling water into the basin that contains 
the dripping, and stir the water and dripping up well together, then let it 
remain until cold. Then take off the cake, and put it into a jar just to 
melt in the oven. When the dripping cake is cold it will be very clean, 
and keep for some time, as the second melting down, or rendering, as it is 
called, has sent out all the water. Fat that rises on water in which beef, 
mutton, or veal has been boiled should be clarified in the same way. 

Savouey Pudding. — 3 6z. of bread, 3 oz. of oatmeal, 3 oz. of suet, 1 tea- 
spoonful or 6 leaves of sage, 3 large onions, 1 egg, and 1 gill of milk. 
Soak the bread in the milk until quite soft, boil the onions in plenty of 
water; when tender chop them up very fine ; the suet also must be chopped 
very fine ; then add them to the soaked bread with the oatmeal. Mix all 
the ingredients well together. Just before putting the pudding into the 
oven, add the egg well beaten, pepper and salt to taste. Put an ounce of 
dripping into the pudding tin, make it hot before you pour the pudding in, 
bake three-quarters of an hour. 



MINERAL FOODS. 51 



TENTH LESSON. 

COOKING— conUnued. 

DINNBB TO-DA.T: — MEAT AND POTATO FIB — CORNISH PASTIB8 — SCATTBIUED 

BICE. 

I HAYB often told yon that we most eat every day foods called 
' body- warmers ' and ' flesh-formers ' that will make the &t 
and flesh which cover our bones. Animal foods and vege- 
table foods contain the same things> bnt certain things are 
found in much greater quantities in one than in the other 
for instance, all animal foods have water and some minerals, 
but green vegetables, such as potatoes, cabbages, &c. have a 
great deal more water and minerals. These bottles contain the 
quantity of water, minerals, and other substances which there 
are in a pound of meat. In this row of bottles you will see 
the quantity of water, minerals, and other substances which 
there are in a pound of potatoes. Potatoes, you see, have 
nearly twice the quantity of both water and minerals. Iron, 
lime, phosphorus, and potassium are minerals. Minerals are 
hard substances which are dug out of the earth ; men and 
animals cannot eat them ; but vegetables grow in the earth, 
and their little roots suck up water that contains minerals. 
Harrogate water contains a great deal of iron, sulphur, and 
other minerals; people go to EEarrogate who suiEer from 
scurvy and skin diseases to drink these waters. We boil 
potatoes with their skins on to keep in the water and all the 
good things which are mixed up in the water ; but, however 
carefully we cook meat and vegetables, the heat that comes oulk 
in steam takes away some of them. We cannot eat any kind 
of meat, except an Qgg or an oyster, without cooking ; but we 
can eat some vegetables raw, such as lettuce, water-cresses, 
radishes, onions, celery, and mustard and cress ; fruit of all 
kinds, oranges, apples, lemons, &c., — all these contain nearly 
the same quantity of water and minerab that the potato 
does, and keep the blood pure. Oux «aa\oi^^^ ^i5Qo^\5^'^ ^^Rct-e^ 
ago, used to die of scurvy by tiioiifiaai&& \«\i«sa. ^«^ -^t«^VsG» 

s2 



52 TENTH LESSON. 

voyages and had no potatoes or any fresh vegetables or fruit. 
Now the Government oblige the captains of all vessels to take 
lemon-juice, that contains a great deal of a mineral food called 
'potash,' which sailors take daily; of course potatoes, fresh 
vegetables, or fruit are much better than lemon juice. You 
may fancy how terribly sailors suffered by the following ac- 
count, written by Dr. Guy of London : — 

* Bound blotches came under the skin, called " purples." 
The blood ran into the flesh and made the limbs painful and 
stiff. The blood-vessels were so weak that they broke with a 
touch. The gums swelled and became dark, the teeth grew 
loose and fell out of their sockets. The breath was bad, and 
blood poured from the nostrils and eyes. The poor sufferer 
became so weak that he fainted at the least exertion, and fell 
down dead in sight of his native land.' 

Dr. Chambers says he considers that the working people 
of England who live in large towns have bad teeth and 
breath and pale faces because they eat so little fruit and 
fresh vegetables. The French people eat nearly twice as 
much fruit and vegetables as we do, and they manage to get 
a salad nearly all the year round. Any uncooked vegetables 
mixed together make what is called a salad. Onions chopped 
up fine and put on bread and butter are very good. In the 
winter everyone might get onions, and have a good quantity 
of pickled cabbage stored up ; nothing is better when water- 
cresses are not to be had. A cold caulifiower, slightly boiled, 
is good with a salad sauce over it. 

Receipt for Salad Sauce, — Put the yoke of a hard-boiled 
egg in a basin, break it up fine with a wooden spoon, adding 
a pinch of salfc and a pinch of pepper, then keep stirring 
J briskly while you pour in slowly two tablespoonfrils of milk, 
cream, or sweet oil, then add one tablespoonful of vinegar 
and half a teaspoonful of mustard ; add a little sugar if liked 
instead of mustard. 

The French people cook their vegetables very well, and 

never let them be hard ; they also wash them with great care. 

The leaves of all vegetables contain more mineral matter than 

anjr other p&rt. Vegetables should never "be allowed to soak 

n water; they a&onld be gently and quicVAy v?b«^g^ ycl ^^^ 



VEGETABLES. 53 

water, the leaves must not be the least crashed. The French 
people put their vegetables into a wire basket when cleaned, 
with holes to let ont the water, and hang it up, as it has a 
handle. Stale old vegetables are quite as unwholesome and 
dangerous to eat as putrid meat, but, unfortunately, they do 
not smell so badly ; a fresh vegetable does not feel soft and 
flabby. Qurdeners can give old vegetables a fresh appearance 
by sprinkling water over them to make them swell out. 
People soon get to know the difference between these bad 
vegetables and fresh ones. There are some places in Oxford- 
shire where the labourers have a habit of eating lettuce un- 
washed, and they suffer from the round worm. A little salt 
kills slugs, &c. Cabbages and cauliflowers should be washed 
in salt and water, as slugs hide themselves between the leaves 
and cannot be got out. 

The dinner to-day is a potato pie and cold boiled rice ; the 
rice may be eaten with treacle, sugar, or preserved fruit and 
some cold milk, or with meat or gravy. This is a dinner I 
could prepare the night before, because I could warm the 
pies up again. I mean to make some small pies called ' Cor- 
nish pasties,' which will contain just what the big one does ; 
these pies will be ready for my son and daughter to take with 
them to school to-morrow, as they are teachers 5 I hope they 
will be able to warm them up somewhere. I bought these 
scraps of meat last night for 6d, per pound. The butcher 
cut them off the outside of the best joints that had been 
hanging a few days. Butchers cut scraps off ham, pork, and 
all their good joints to make them a nice shape; they are 
quite good and can be bought at 6d. per pound. Just dip 
them in hot water and make them clean ; you see the meat is 
both fat and lean, so that the pie shall contain * body- warmers,' 
* flesh- formers,' and * mineral foods ; ' the potatoes and onions 
will be the mineral food ; the crust will have flour and drip- 
ping. You learned how to make the pastry we are going to 
use for these pies at the last lesson. 

Beceipt for Cornish Pasties. — Rub 2 oz. of clarified drip- 
ping into 4 oz. of flour, mix them together "^w^Vsl ^^^ \sbi^^- 
tablespoonfnls or ^ of a gill ot coW ^Wwtcn Vxvr».^ ^c^ 
a paste, then roll it out untU \\> \s >acs© ^vS^aw?. ^\ 



54 TENTH LESSON. 

an inch, and line a small plafce, tin, or sancer that has been 
rabbed with a little dripping. Toast a thin slice of either 
ham or lean bacon very slightly, only enongh to take away 
any raw taste, cut it up into pieces of half an inch ; next beat 
np one whole egg in a basin, then add two teaspoonfnls and a 
half of either skim milk, new milk, or cream to the egg, with 
a little pepper and Bait, and then pat in the pieces of bacon ; 
mix all np well together, and fill the sancer with the mixture, 
and cover it over with a lid of the paste. Potatoes might 
be nsed instead of the ham, or mixed with it, or meat might 
be nsed offish, flesh, or fowl. 

Preserve or fresh fmit Cornish pasties are very good. 

All these little pies will contain the three kinds of food 
we mnst eat daily to keep ns strong and onr skin healthy. 
The milk and eggs are most nourishing animal flesh-formers, 
the dripping is an animal body-warmer. The flour is a 
most nourishing vegetable flesh-former and body-warmer, as 
it contains starch and albumen. The potato is a mineral 
food because it has a great deal of potash. In the summer 
Cornish pasties, filled with fresh fruit, would be very nou- 
rishing and good for this blood ; the flour in the crust would 
be a * flosh-former,' and the dripping put into it a * body- 
warmer.' All 'fresh fruits contain a great quantity of the 
mineral food, potash. 

Receijpt for Scattered Bice. — Boil until tender in boiling- 
water, then pour the water and rice into a sieve, shake the 
rice about for a short time on the sieve, and stir it with a fork 
to prevent the rice from sticking together. 





Ingredients Required. 




Meat. 

Egg. 
Suet. 


Flour. 
Dripping. 


Rice. 
Salad 



Apparatm. 

Food collection, showing component parts of 1 lb. of flour, 1 lb. of meat, 
and 1 lb. of potatoes. 

^o. ,5 Sheet, with Juices and component parts of meat. 



COBNISH PASTIES. — SCATTERED RICE. 55 



Questions for Tenth Lesson, 

1. In the winter, when there is no lettuce, mustard and cress, celery, 

water-cresses, &c., sometimes called 'mineral foods* because they 
contain minerals such as iron, lime, phosphorus, potassium, what 
uncooked vegetables could you eat that would do instead of these ? 

2. Why did an immense number of our poor sailors die of scurvy when 

they went long voyages about a hundred years ago ? 

3. Tell me how you could make either a meat, vegetable, or fruit 

Cornish pasty so that it should contain 'body-warmers,* 'flesh- 
formers,' and ' mineral ' foods. 

4. How would you cook rice or macaroni so that it could be eaten 

with any kind of meat, or with milk and sugar, or with treacle 
alone ? 

Receipts for Tenth Lesson. 

Cornish Pasties, No. 1. — Rub 2 oz. of clarified dripping into 4 oz. of 
flour, mix them together with 2^ tablespoonfuls of cold water, knead 
into a paste, then roll it out until it is the thickness of half an inch, 
and line a small tin plate or saucer that has been rubbed with a little 
dripping. Toast a thin slice of either ham or lean bacon very slightly, 
only enough to take away any raw taste ; cut it up into pieces of half an 
inch. Next beat up one whole egg in a basin, then add 2| tablespoonfuls 
of either skim milk, new milk, or cream to the egg, with a little 
pepper and salt, and then put in the pieces of bacon ; mix all up well 
together, and fill the saucer with the mixture and cover it over with a lid 
of the paste. Potatoes may be used instead of the ham or bacon or mixed 
with it, or the meat of fish, flesh, or fowl might be used. These pasties 
can be made the same shape as turnovers if less liquid be used. 

CoBNiSH Pasties, No. 2. — To 1 lb. of flour, rub in J lb. of dripping, 
any kind will do, then mince a little bacon or ham along with any other 
kind of meat, and mix with the meat a little potato and onion ; season 
with pepper and salt to taste. Roll out the paste, put in the above, then 
place on a paste cover, and bake in a slow oven for twenty minutes. 

Scattered Rice. — 2 oz. of rice well washed in cold water, then add 1 
quart of water, simmer until tender in boiling water, then pour the rice 
and water into a sieve ; shake the rice about for a short time on the sieve, 
and stir it with a fork to prevent the rice from sticking together. 



9 

56 ELEVENTH LESSON. 



I 



ELEVENTH LESSON. • 

COOKING— continued, 

DINNEB: — FRIED FISH, PLAICE — ^HASHED POTATOES — BAKED BICE PUDDING. 

EvEET cook ought to know that when bnmt fat is eaten, 
directly it enters the stomach it makes the most unwholesome 
of all acids called * bntyric acid,' which canses a gas or bad 
air to form that gives heartburn, pains under the shoulder- 
blades, and palpitation of the heart. . Fat is a very difficult 
food to cook because it can be made twice as hot as boiling 
water ; water boils when the quicksilver rises up in the ther- 
mometer to 212°, but fat does not boil until it rises up to 
about 600® or 700°. When fat really boils it would bum a 
piece of fat or meat to ashes in a second, and yet all cookery 
books will tell you to take great care to make the fat boil in 
the frying-pan before you put in the fish or any food. The 
right heat that fat should be for frying any kind of food is 
350°. I hope that cooks will soon use the thermometer to 
find out the proper heat. The best way to find out without a 
thermometer is to put a piece of bread into the fat; if it 
becomes nicely browned in rather less than a minute, it will 
brown the food too. When fish, potatoes, or veal cutlets are 
put into the fat, let the fat remain at that heat (350°) for 
about five minutes, until both sides of the fish have become a 
good brown colour; then either hang the frying-pan on the 
recon over the fire, or put it on the brig, or oven-top, when 
the fish can cook gradually in the fat ; find out if it is done 
enough by lifting the flesh with a knife — if ifc leaves the bone 
readily it is done. Veal cutlets should cook slowly, as veal is 
very indigestible unless very well cooked. A frying-pan 
should be constantly moved about so long as the fat is 350° 
to prevent the food from sticking to the bottom of the pan, 
which it will instantly do if the pan is thin. The burnt fat in 
the pan will, of course, gradually sink into every part of 
^^0 £sh, veal, or potsbtoeSy and make them 'very indigestible. 
-4 matton chop or beefsteak ouglit uevex to \>e Y°^t vclVo ^ 



FRIED FISH. 57 

frying-pan. These two meats contain a great deal more fat 
than fish or veal ; if cooked in a frying-pan the feA covers the 
outside and gets into the middle and makes the meat very fat 
and greasy ; no wonder that an invalid or a person with a 
weak digestion is made ill by sach dishes. When a chop or 
beefsteak is put on a gridiron the outside gets hardened, all 
the juices are kept in, and the burnt fat drops into the fire. 
A frying-pan should be like ours, a thick iron one, and perfectly 
clean ; if the least speck of either old or burnt fat is left in, the 
fresh fat will be spoiled. 

The fish we are going to fry is a piece of plaice that costs 
4(2. to 6d. per pound ; it is good because it smells sweet and 
feels very firm when pressed with my finger. After it has 
been washed in this cold water it must be well wiped and 
have a little time to get perfectly dry ; unless it is quite dry 
it will not brown when it is fried. We will put two ounces of 
dripping into the pan and watch it carefully until it is the 
right heat ; the thermometer is up at 350°, and you see this 
piece of bread has become a beautiful brown. Just sprinkle a 
little flour over the fish before you put it into the fat ; when 
the underside is brown we will turn it over ; now that both 
sides are sufl&ciently browned, the pan shall stand on the brig 
until the fish is done. Cooks generally beat up a whole egg, 
dip a brush into the egg and put it all over the fish or veal 
cutlets, then sprinkle fine bread crumbs over it ; the egg and 
bread crumbs stick together and get brown, if the fish is quite 
dry and fresh, but not without, though the fat is the right 
heat. 

Baked Bice Pudding. — We will now measure all the quan- 
tities we want for our baked rice pudding. Two tablespoon- 
fuls of rice (the same as 2 oz.), 1 pint of either milk or water, 
or half milk and water, 1 tablespoonful full of finest chopped 
suet (1 oz.), 1 tablespoonful of brown sugar (1 oz.) ; the rice 
must be twice well washed in cold water, and then put into a 
pie- dish ; the milk, sugar, and suet can then be added to the 
rice, and all be well stirred up together ; the pudding ought 
to be baked very slowly, three hours is not too much ; the 
heat of the oven ought not to be niate ^^MMa.'^ilV^ • 

Nothing ia more indigeatWAe iox ^ ^e^^i^i^ %\iatfiSrf^ *^is»!»aD. 



58 ELEVENTH LESSON. 

eggs which have been pnt into a pndding and baked, becaiise 
the albnmen in the egg gets very hard and is said to be as 
difficult to digest as leather. When new milk can be got to 
put into the pndding, neither suet nor bntter need be added ; 
snet is added when water is mixed with the milk. 

Mashed Potatoes. — We wiU now measure what we want to 
make one dish of mashed potatoes. 1 lb. of mashed potatoes 
require 1 oz. of dripping, 2 tablespoonfuls of milk (the milk 
is not necessary). Boil the potatoes in their skins, when 
done take them out of the pan, let them stand by the fire just 
to get dry, then peel them, put them back into the pan and 
beat them well up with a potato-crusher or large fork ; the 
dripping and a little salt can then be added, and when all has 
been well mixed up together, and become very hot, put the 
mash into a dish, and just draw the fork lightly across the 
top to make it look rough. 

The dinner to-day will give my family plenty of animal 
and vegetable body-warmers, flesh-formers, and mineral foods. 

Questions for Eleventh Lesson. 

1. How would you find out the proper heat of fat to fry either fish, 

veal, or potatoes, so that they should have a beautiful brown 
colour ? Ought the fat to boil ? 

2. Why is fried mutton chop or beefsteak very unwholesome and in- 

digestible for an invalid or a person who has a weak stomach ? 
Why ought these two meats to be cooked on a gridiron ? 

3. Why are eggs indigestible in a baked rice pudding ? 

Receipts for Eleventh Lesson. 

Baked Rick Pxtdding. — 2 tablespoonfuls of rice (2 oz.); 1 pint of 
either milk or water, or half water and half milk ; 1 teaspoonful of finest 
chopped suet; 1 tablespoonful of brown sugar (1 oz.). The rice must be 
twice well washed in cold water, and then put into a pie-dish ; the milk, 
sugar, and suet can then be added to the rice, and all well stirred up 
together ; the pudding ought to be baked very slowly, three hours is not too 
much ; the heat of the oven ought not to, be more than 212°. Nothing 
is more indigestible for a .weak stomach than eggs which have been put 
into a pudding and baked, because the albumen in the egg gets very h{u*d, 
a/?d js said to he as difScult to digest as leather. When new milk can 
begot to put into the pvdding, neither suet noT "butter T\ee3L\>e ftM^^%«vji^\ 
is&difed wfyen water is mixed with the milH: 



MILK. 59 

Full directions are given for frying fish and veal cutlets at page 57. 

Fey Plaicb without Bbbad-csvhbs JlND Egg. — Dip in clean cold 
water and wipe very dry, and hang up in a current of fresh air if there is 
time, sprinkle it over with a little ilour, put 2 oz. of dripping into the clean 
fiying-pan and melt until a piece of bread turns a nice brown in about a 
minute, or the thermometer rises to 350° ; the fish should then be put in 
the pan, and tamed when the under part looks brown ; when the two sides 
are brown the frying-pan must be put on the hot oven-top, where the fish 
can cook slowly until the fiesh leaves the bone when a knife is put between 
the fiesh and bone. 

Mashbd Potatoes. — 1 lb. of potatoes, J oz. of dripping or butter, 2 
tablespoonfuls of milk (the milk is not necessary). Boil the potatoes in 
their skins ; when done take them out of the pan, let them stand by the 
fire just to get dry, then peel them and put them back into the pan; beat 
them up with a potato-crusher or large fork ; the dripping and a little salt 
can then be added, and when all has been well mixed up together, and 
become very hot, put the mash into a dish, and just draw the fork lightly 
across the top to make it look rough. 



TWELFTH LESSON. 

COOKERY— continued, 

FOODS FOB AN INVALID WHO IS NOT ALLOWKD TO TAKR SOLID FOOD OB IS 
SUFFEBING FBOM A FEVEB : MILK — BEEF-TBA — GBUEL — BABLRT WATEB. 

If yon are nnrsing patients snflfering from the following com- 
plaints, called fevers — small-pox, chicken-pox, measles, scar- 
latina, typhns, enteric or gastric fever, yellow fever, relapsing, 
remittent, cholera, mnmps and inflnenza, you may give them 
the following foods : milk, beef tea, &c. 

Milk is an animal food, and is the most nonrishing of all 
foods, becanse it contains every snbstance that is to be fonnd 
in animal or vegetable foods. 

Li these bottles there are exact quantities of the principal 
substances contained in one pint of new milk. Starch and all 
those things that make fat are placed together and called 
' body-warmers.' Albumen and all that Ynake flesh, nerves, 
and muscle, are all put together and called ' fleah-focmfis^^ 
and iron, potash, <fec., which are c821e^TKai<&T^lQSi^,«x^ ^ 
arranged in the/se small botttea. T&Qt\\^T'^ tdS^ «^ ^^"^ 



60 TWELFTH LESSON. 

milk are almost exactly the same ; though milk contains snch 
a great variety of foods, the most delicate infant can Kve 
entirely upon it, because the right proportions of all these dif- 
ferent substances have been mixed together with the right 
quantity of water, and because when the little infant takes it 
from its mother it is properly cooked by about 100® of 
heat. 

An ignorant cook would boil milk at 212° and spoil the 
delicate flavour, harden the albumen, and send out some of the 
substances in the steam. Grown-up people suffering from 
fever, or who have a delicate stomach, can sometimes drink 
cold or new milk, when any other food would directly make 
them sick. 

Doctors now consider it is more important to give their 
patients milk than any other food ; they often order a nurse 
to give a quart and a half in a day to persons who are 
suffering from any of the following complaints called fevers — 
small-pox, chicken-pox, measles, scarlatina, typhus, enteric or 
gastric fever, yellow fever, relapsing, remittent, cholera, 
mumps, influenza. They also order a nurse to give the 
strongest beef- tea, which you are going to prepare to-day. 
Beef is the butcher's meat always chosen to make tea for 
people who are very weak and have delicate digestions and 
nerves, because it contains more flavouring matter called 
osmazome than any other meat. There is very little 
osmazome in white meat, such as veal, lamb, fish. Mutton has 
a good deal, but not so much as beef. I will suppose that 
some one is ill and requires the strongest beef -tea as quickly 
as possible. The tea must therefore be made of the same 
weight of beef and water. As I want a pint of tea I bought one 
pound of the best lean beef. After I have taken off every bit of 
fat and skin, and cut it up into pieces of about an inch square, 
I shall let it stand one hour in the pint of water, which must 
be cold, because I know cold water can draw out all the juices 
from the meat if it remains in long enough. I also know 
that I must not let the tea boil at 212° or the flavour is 
spoiled and the albumen hardened. How can 1 cook so that 
I shall be sure it cannot boil (for I am a poor 'wote^ssi^ ^t Wi 
ha/fjr to pyatcb the pot the whole time it \a otv t\\e ^t^ at 'm 



BEEF-TEA. 61 

the oven) ? Fortunately, I know that if I cover the jar of 
beef-tea and put it into a pan of boiling water, which is 
either boiling on the fire or in the oven, the beef-tea in the jar 
cannot boil if it is left there for ever, only cook gently or 
simmer at about 180°. 

The only thing I must do is to take care to keep the water 
which surrounds the jar boiling, and keep putting in more 
water, lest the water should aU boil away and the pan get 
burnt, either on the fire or in the oven. Everybody should be 
taught this scientific fact, that no food can be brought up to 
boiling point in a pan or jar that is surrounded by boiling 
water. Double saucepans are sold on purpose for cooking 
custards, because a custard is spoiled directly it boils. A little 
pan or jar put into a larger one serves the same purpose. 
There is in this bottle some beef -tea that I made this morning ; 
it contains the same quantity of meat and water that we have 
just used. The beef stood for an hour in cold water, and 
then it was put into a pan of boiling water for one hour. 
Beef tea ought never to form a jelly when it is cold ; this is 
cold, but quite clear and thin. Here is some beef-tea in 
another bottle that was made at the same time, with the same 
quantity of meat and water. The only difference is, that the 
meat was put into boiling water and boiled for one hour ; you 
see what a small quantity, only a third as much as there is in 
the other bottle, and the flavour is very poor. 

Dr. Chambers says that if sick persons during their illness 
were given plenty of milk, one quart and .a half during the 
day, and some good beef-tea, they would not die while they 
are in the fever from starvation, nor after they had lost the 
fever from weakness, because they had become too thin to 
recover. During the fever the blood is not only much hotter 
than it is when we are in health, but it flies much more 
quickly to every part of the body, and gradually bums up 
the fat and causes the flesh, nerves and muscles to waste 
away. Some nurses think that people who have fevers should 
not have much food, and that strong beef-tea that has been 
boiled and become a stiff jelly is all the food that ought to be 
given them. They would not tlaiiik. ^2kL\^M ^^-^ ^oi^^^c'^^R^ 
that the beef-- tea. only feeda the ftedx, axA ^3tois» ^^^ \s;p^ 



62 TWELITH LESSON. 

is dying because the other parts of the body are being burned 
np. Milk contains a great deal of mineral food which purifies 
the poisoned blood, and also feeds the fat. 

A nurse should always write down on a piece of paper 
the exact quantity of food she has given the patient during 
the day, and mention the exact time when she gave it, so 
that the doctor can quickly gain a clear account of aJl that 
has been done during his absence. The air of a sick room, 
however well ventilated, will contain a great deal of the 
breath of the sick person, in which there must be some of the 
horrid germs that are causing the fever or any disease. If 
water, milk, or any food is left uncovered, the bad air mtist 
get into it. Germs grow quickly in milk. Take care always 
to cover water and everything with a plate or a saucer, and do 
not keep more food than you want in the room, and do not let 
anyone in the house eat the food when it is taken out of the 
room. If the persons are very weak, do not let them sit up in 
bed to eat the food, but give it them in a little covered cup 
like this, which can be put into the mouth without letting the 
food run over the bed-clothes ; wash it and every utensil 
directly it has been used in a little boiling water. Every sick- 
room ought to have a little kettle. Be sure never to give the 
medicine out of the feeding- cup, A nurse should think the day 
before how much beef- tea and milk she will require. If a pine 
or gill, she will require the same weight of beef. The beef 
ought to be cut up and put into the cold water, so that the 
juices will all come out during the night, and be ready to cook 
in the morning. 

We will now learn how to make barley water. Two ounces 
of pearl barley is enough to make one quart of barley water 
as a drink to quench thirst, for which only is it given, as it is 
not a nourishing food. The two ounces should be washed in 
cold water, then they should be boiled for five minutes in 
another water, which, like the first, must be thrown away. 
Two quarts of boiling water must then be added, and the 
barley allowed to boil until the water is reduced to only one 
quart ; cut some very thin shoes off the outside of a lemon to 
£avour the barley water, squeeze out Bome ^uice through 
eWier a piece of znofih'n or a ai^ve to preveiut ^^ y^^ ^^wixcL 



BEEF-TEA, BARLEY WATEB, OBUEL. 63 

falling in, and add sugar to taste. The barley water ought 
not to be strained unless the sick person particularly wishes 
this to be done. 

Milk Orvsl, — As gruel is much more nourishing made with 

milk, I will give the receipt used in the Children's Hospital. 
Grits are the best. Grits, ^ oz. } water, | oz. ; milk, ^ pint ; 
sugar, ^ oz. 

Water Orml. — Mix 1 large tablespoonful of oatmeal into 
a smooth paste with a little cold water, pour in (mixing all the 
time) a pint of boiling water, boil for ten minutes, stirring as 
before, and strain. It may be eaten with salt or sugar, according 
to taste. 

Questions for Ttvelfth Lesson. 

1. Why do doctors order a nurse to give new milk and beef-tea to a 

person who is s offering from a fever, or any of the following com- 
plaints, which are all called fevers — small-pox, chicken-pox, 
measles, scarlatina, typhus, enteric or gastric fever, yellow fever, 
relapsing, remittent, cholera, mumps, and influenza ? 

2. Why-would a person in a fever be starved or pined if the nurse only 

gave him beef-tea ? 

3. The strongest beef-tea is made with the same weight of water and 

beef. How would you make a pint of beef-tea so that none of its 
juices and flavouring matter called osmazome should be wasted ? 

4. By what means could you cook food in a saucepan or jar and pre- 

vent the food from ever boiling at 212 degrees ? 

Receipts for Twelfth Lesson. 

BfiEF Tea, the Strongest. — 1 lb. of lean beef, remove all skiu and 
gristle, cut up to the size of an inch, cover over in jar with! pint of cold 
water and a pinch of salt ; let it stand for one hour, then put the jar into a 
pan of boiling water, either on the fire or in the oven, for one or two hours ; 
the water in the pan must be kept boiling. If an egg is ordered tu be 
added to the beef-tea, it must be beaten up and added when the tea is taken 
off the fire ; if put in and allowed to boil, the egg would crack. 

Bablbt Watbb. — 2 oz. of pearl barley to be well washed in cold 
water, then boiled for five minutes in another water ; this water must be 
thrown away; 2 quarts of boiling water must then be added, and the barley 
allowed to simmer until the water is reduced to 1 quart ; cut some very 
thin slices off the outside of a lemon to flavour the barley water, squeeze 
out some of the juice through either a sieve or a piece of muslin. ; o^ifl ^x^s^^sc^ 
to taste. The barley water ought not to \ift «\xAl\Xi&^ -^t^'bw^ ^2aa >s^<S«.^^g«»5s«i^ 
particularly wiaheB this to be done. 



(>4 THIKTEENTH LESSON. 

Milk Grukl. — ^ oz. of grits, ^ pint of water, f pint of milk (the milk 
and water together makes a pint), ^ oz. of sugar. 

Watbb Gruel. — Mix 1 large tablespoonful of oatmeal into a smooth 
paste, with a little cold water. Pour in (mixing all the time) a pint of 
boiling water, boil for ten minutes, stirring as before, and strain. It maybe 
eaten with salt or sugar, according to taste. 



THIRTEENTH LESSON. 

COOKERY— contintied, 

FOODS TO BE COOKED *. WHOLE BEEF-TEA — POTATO SURPRISE — FRESH MUTTON 
MINCE — AN EGG WHIPPED AND MIXED WITH MILK OR WINE — BOILED 
BATTER PUDDING WITHOUT AN EGG BOILED CUSTARD. 

We are going to-day to cook a few dishes for sick persons who 
are recovering from a fever, or who have delicate digestions 
and have been ordered by the doctor to take some of the solid 
foods that are named on the slate: — * Whole beef- tea,' 
* potato surprise,' an e^g whipped and then mixed with either 
milk Or wine and a boiled custard. We will first make three 
gills or one and a half pints of whole beef- tea, for which we 
shall only require half the weight of fresh-killed meat. The 
strongest beef-tea, such as you made at the last lesson, had, 
you remember, one pound of beef to one pound of water, that 
is, equal weights of both water and beef. I shall remove all 
fat and skin and cut the beef up into pieces of about an inch 
square, as we did in making the strongest beef-tea, but I shall 
not put the meat to stand in the three gills of cold water, only in 
one giU, which will be a third of it. When all the juices of the 
beef have been drawn out into the gill of water, the beef must 
be put into a jar or saucepan with the remaining pint of 
water. When it has simmered for two hours it must all be 
poured into the cold raw juice ; the pieces of beef are again to 
he taken out and either chopped up very fine or pounded in 
B mortar or wooden bowl witb tlie end oi ai to^xh^-y^ ^'^ 



BEEF-TEA. 65 

potato. crasher, and added, to the hot beef- tea. A wholesome 
flavouring for beef-tea is a piece of green celery stalk, or a 
small onion, and a few cloves may also be pnt into it. A little 
Worcester Sauce is a safe flavouring. The beef for this tea 
ought to stand in the cold water all night, and be made in 
the morning. When beef or any food has been cooked it 
loses its flavour or osmazome, because as the meat is cooking 
the steam carries it off. Invalids who have weak digestion 
must not eat cold meat, or much worse still, cold meat warmed 
up. However carefully a cook may warm or hash up cold 
meat, the heat she is obliged to use will draw out all the 
flavouring matter and juices that may have been left in the 
meat. Cold meat you know has not the flavour it has when 
hot and fresh-cooked. 

I am now going to teach you how to make a little dish 
called a ' potato surprise.' We must first ehoose a very good 
and large potato and wash it well, cut a hole, but take care not 
to destroy the skin, as it must be left on to cover the hole up 
when we have scooped out the inside and filled it with fresh, 
juicy, lean, uncooked mutton that has been minced up fine, with 
a little pepper and salt. When the potato is baked, a little 
fresh gravy can be poured in if there is any, and the meat 
appears dry. 1 have bought a fine lean mutton chop. The 
fat must be cut off before I chop or mince the meat. The 
bone shall be put into a small pan with two tablespoonfuls of 
water to stew, ready to be made into a little gravy to pour into 
the potato when it is cooked. The chop might be minced, 
and gravy made from the bone and sent up on a dish with 
little pieces of toasted bread put round in the gravy, instead of 
putting it into the potato. 

Doctors always ask whether eggs agree with their patients 
before they order them to eat them, as some people cannot 
digest eggs in any form, even when they are in good health. 
It is a pity when this is the case, as an egg is a most nourishing 
food. A great deal depends upon the way an egg is cooked. 
Dr. Chambers has drawn up the following list to show the 
best way of cooking an egg for an invalid or a peraou ^iNs^Vts^ 
a weak stomach. 



66 THIBTEENTH LESSON. 

Dige$tibUity of Eggs} 

Tdcb to Digest. 

Hours. 

Eggs whipped and mixed with milk or wine . I ^ 

Eggs, fresh raw 2 

„ Soft-boiled 3 

„ Hard-boiled 3^ 

„ Fried 3J 

We sliall find by stndjring this list that an e^gy like bee^ 
milk, and all other foods, is most nourishing and digests in 
the shortest time when the albamen has not been hardened 
and the flavour and juices have not been carried off bj too 
mnch heat. Heat cooks onr food by making it tender, and by 
separating it so that the teeth can chop it np, and the saliva 
in the month can completely mix with it. After an e^ has 
been beaten up or whipped, it is not a raw egg^ because it has 
been cooked by the heat made in beating it, and the beating 
has separated every part so that the saliva can mix with it. 
If I had a very delicate thermometer I could show you how- 
many degrees of heat had been made by the force used in 
beating the e^^, because the quicksilver would rise several 
degrees when it was put into the beaten e^^. As you were 
taught at a previous lesson how to beat an egg properly, I 
will beat this Qgg and mix it with two tablespoonfuls of new 
milk and half a teaspoonful of sugar, just to show you how 
to prepare an egg in the most digestible way, according to 
Dr. Chambers's egg list. Wine can be used instead of the 
milk when ordered. 

You see that a perfectly raw egg digests more quickly 
than a soft-boiled one, because none of the juices have been 
taken B,way, nor the albumen hardened. A hard-boiled egg 
and a fried one are equally indigestible, and take the same 
long time to digest — ^three hours and a half ! 

I taught you how to cook an egg so that ifc should never 
boil, at the third lesson. Baked puddings with eggs are very 
indigestible, because the whole of the egg becomes very much 
hardened hy heing baked for so long a iame. I will now 

' Dr. Ciiambers's Diet in HealtH and Dueaw. 



EGGS. &7 

make a small batter pudding 'withont eggs. I shall require 
three teaspoonfnls of flour, one pint of new milk, one pinch of 
salt, and flavour it with ginger and nutmeg. A custard can 
be eaten with this pudding or a little wine used as sauce. A 
custard if properly made is a very nourishing and digestible 
dish, because neither the e^^ nor the milk are allowed to boil. 
We will make a custard in this little white preserve jar, and 
put it into this large saucepan, so that it cannot come up to 
boiling point. Though the custard in the jar cannot boil, it 
would be spoiled if we do not watch very carefully and take 
the jar out of the boiling water directly we feel by stirring that 
the custard is growing thick. Directly a custard becomes 
lumpy it is spoiled, because it shows that the e^g has sepa- 
rated from the milk. Quantities : the yolks of two eggs, one 
gill of milk, one teaspoonf ul of sugar, and a bay-leaf. 

A potato surprise, batter pudding, and custard would be 
a nice little dinner to send up to an invalid. I shall arrange 
the tray for carrying it as prettily as possible, with a little 
flower or a few green leaves placed in a little pot of some kind 
to stand in the centre. 

Apparatus, 
No. 9 Sheet, Digestibility of Eggs. 

Questions for Thirteenth Lesson. 

1. Why ought invalids or delicate people not to eat cold meat, or 

cold meat that has been warmed up or hashed ? 

2. Why is an egg that has been beaten or whipped a cooked egg ? 

3. Why is a whipped egg very easily digested ? 

4. How woidd you arrange a little tray upon which you were going to 

carry a dinner to an invalid ? 

Receipts for Thvrteenth Lesson. 

Wholb Bebf Tea.. — f of a pound of lean beef. Bemove all skin and 
gristle, and cut up into pieces an inch square, place in a basin with 
1 gill of cold water, and let them stand for about 1 hour, until the cold 
water has drawn out all the juices. The pieces of beef should then be taken 
out of this water and put into ajar with 1 pint of cold water, and tk^ik ^jb».\^ 
put into a pan of boiHng water for 2 hoxuea, '^'Viwa. VJaa ^^^ v^ ^V-^S^^'xa- 
which the beef stood must be poured \iA.o \\va \i^\. ^q^^^Aavw, S>b» "^^^^ 
of beef taken out and pounded well in a moTUac* otM >i)s«fs» \sk-ofti»»*»** 



68 THI&TEENTH LESSON. 

in a clean wooden bowl, with the end of a rolling-pin or potato-cruaher; 
then add them to the hot beef-tea, flavour with a little salt, and a stalk of 
green celery or a small onion and a few cloves. 

Custard. — Yolks of 2 fresh eggs beaten up well and mixed with 1 gill 
of new milk, 1 teaspoonfal of sugar, and 1 bay leaf. Put all into a jar, which 
should stand in a saucepan of boiling water. Stir the custard the whole 
time. Directly it begins to thicken, take the jar out of the boiling water and 
keep stirring for five minutes. 

An Egg bbatbn up with Milk or Wine. — ^First beat up a whole fresh 
egg, and then add either 2 tablespoonfuls of new milk, or sherry wine if 
ordered. Some people may like a little sugar. 

MiNCBD Mutton. — Take a firesh mutton chop or any fresh lean mutton. 
Eemove all fat and flesh from bone, chop the lean very finely, flavour to 
taste with pepper and salt. Cook the mince in a little jar covered over for 
half an hour in a pan of boiling water, let the bone with 2 tablespoonfuls 
of water be simmering to make a little gravy to add to the mince. When 
served up, little pieces of toasted bread can be put round the dish in the 
gravy. 

Potato Subfbisb, taken from Dr. Chambers's book on ' Diet in Health 
and Disease.' — Choose a large potato, brush and wash quite clean, scoop out 
the inside, taking care to leave a piece of skin on to cover the hole. Take 
a fine mutton chop, cut off all the meat, mince the lean very fine, and flavour 
with pepper and salt ; then fill the potato with the mince, cover up the 
hole and bake the potato. If the mince is dry, a little gravy can be 
added. 

Boiled Batter without Egg. — ^Three tablespoonfuls of flour, 1 pint of 
new milk, 1 pinch of salt ; flavour with ginger and nutmeg. 

Boiled Batter Pudding with Eggs. — Whisk 2 eggs to a froth, then 
add 3 tablespoonfuls of flour and 2 tablespoonfuls of milk. Beat the batter 
until it is perfectly smooth ; then add 1 pint of milk and a pinch of salt. 
Boil in a buttered basin or floured cloth one hour. 

Dry Toast. — Cut a slice of bread, at least half-an-inch thick, off a loaf 
of very light bread that is neither quite new nor stale. Toast it very 
quickly before a hot, bright fire, then cut off the crust, divide it if the 
slice is large, and place the pieces upright. If they lie flat the toast 
becomes tough and indigestible, because the moisture cannot get ont 
through the toasted part — only through the soft sides. Toast should be 
eaten directly it is made or it is not good. Thin hard toast contains 
very little nourishment, and like a hard biscuit is indigestible. When 
bread is toasted slowly before a poor fire it always becomes hard and flinty, 
though the slices are not cut thin. 



GELATINB. — MEAT STOCK. 69 



FOURTEENTH LESSON. 

COOKERY^-cmitinued, 

MEAT STOCK — TBOBTABLB SOUP MADE OF MBAT STOCK — SOTTP W1TH0X7T 
butcher's MBAT — BAKBD BOLL TREACLE PUDDING. 

Before we begin to cook I wish yoa again to examine the 
contents of these five bottles, which hold all the principal 
substances to be found in beef or butcher's meat. If I were 
to boil beef or any butcher's meat for a very long time I could 
boil away all the good substances except one, which is the 
toughest and least digestible, called * gelatine,' — here it is in 
this bottle. The gelatine we buy in packets to make jelly op 
to stiffen any dish like blanc-mange is the same substance. 
Some meats contain more gelatine than others. There is a 
great deal of gelatine in bone ; the gelatine in this packet 
is made from bone. Gelatine is nourishing when mixed up 
with different substances, as we find it in meat ; but it is not 
nourishing when eaten by itself, and only takes away the 
appetite ; for this reason do not give delicate patients jelly 
which is almost entirely made of gelatine. I shall try and 
show you how a great deal of the best food is wasted and 
made very indigestible because cooks do not understand what 
kind of a substance gelatine really is. 

The first food to be prepared to-day is called stock. Meat- 
stock is only the water in which meat has been boiled. As 
this water must contain some of the flavouring matter, juices, 
<fec., that have come out of the meat, and also some fat that is 
melted during the cooking, a good cook never throws this 
water away, but pours it directly y while it is hot, into a clean 
pan. When it is cold she takes off the fat that rises to the 
top and uses it for making cakes, Ac, after clarifying it accord- 
ing to the following directions : — Put the fat, when cold, into 
a jar in the oven until melted, then pour it off into a clean 
jar. The top part will be clean, tba ^%.\«t «aA >»^\i»2TOi% 
Mien to the bottom. The cook u%oa t\i^ ^^\«c \sl^>s«3b.*^? 
meat was eooked as a stock oi food Teej^j ^ tdsSs^^^^^^^ 



} 



70 FOURTEENTH LESSON. 

or into soap, by adding vegetables, &c. Soups are mucli 
more nourishing when made with vegetables ; the vegetables 
ought to be well done, and, if possible, cooked separatelj, 
and then put into the meat-stock. If the meat-stock and 
the vegetables are cooked together some of the stock is wasted, 
because it simmers away while the vegetables are cooking. 
I prepared some stock yesterday. The stock in this glass jar 
was made with a pound of meat and three pints of water. 
1 put the stock when made into a glass jar that you might see 
how clear the jelly is, and that a pint of good stock has been 
made. This stock is clear because I washed the meat and 
bones quite clean in hot water, and put them into a perfectly 
clean saucepan, with cold water of course, as the juices have 
to be brought out into the soup. This stock is very nourish- 
ing, because the meat was never allowed to boil. If sonp boils 
the albumen in the meat becomes hardened and rises in little 
white bits to the top and makes what is called scum. Even 
if the soup does not boil a scum will rise if the meat and 
saucepan are not spotlessly clean, for any bits of food that 
were sticking to the sides and bottom of the pan come off, 
stick to the albumen, and rise with it to the top. 

I will now show you some stock made with exactly the 
same quantity of meat and bone, cooked according to a receipt 
given by a professed cook, which was that the meat was to 
BOIL (212°) for two hours. During some of the time the 
saucepan lid was to be removed, in order that the scum might 
be taken off to make the stock clear. At the end of the two 
hours which I had spent by the hot fire in watching the pot 
and in skimming the top to remove the albumen, I found I had 
only made this little piece of gelatine that just covers the ' 
palm of my hand, instead of aU this clear, nourishing stock, 
which fills this glass jar. An ignorant cook would tell you 
that this stiff stock is very strong and nourishing, but a doctor 
would .tell you that if a man, woman, child, or dog, were to 
be fed on nothing else for some time, they would first suffer 
from diarrhoea and then die of starvation. I should recom- 
mend all cooks who wish to make their stock, soups, or any 
dis£ rerf stiff, to buy some gelatine ao\d m ^«j5^«^ ^ai^ ^^iAl 
y^ iv the stock, or saiy food they wisla io Toak© «^aS, ydsX^a^ 



BOILING MEAT. 71 

of rainiug the meat and wasting their time in trying to send 
away all the other good snbstances it contains np the chimney 
in order to make a small quantity of gelatine that can be 
bought cheap in packets. Everyone, and cooks particularly, 
ought to read the following directions gpiven this year about 
soup-making, and the proper meat that should be used for 
cooking, as it shows how much the poor suffer in public insti- 
tutions owing to the ignorance of cooks. When bones are 
used to make soup they ought to be cooked for some time 
alone, and then be added to the meat, as the gelatine in the 
bone requires a long time to dissolve, and greater heat. 

* Meat. — ^As a general rule, beef is the most economical 
form of animal food, when its price is considered in relation 
to the nourishment which it affords. It is richer in osmazome 
than mutton, and the fact that, as a general rule, it is more 
satisfying to the stomach, is one which should not be over- 
looked. Mutton is, on the whole, more digestible than beef, 
and is better adapted to the requirements of invalids. We 
therefore recommend beef for healthy prisoners at labour, and 
mutton for the sick in hospital. 

' It appears to be overlooked at some of the prisons that 
good soup and good cooked meat cannot be prepared by the 
same process. 

* When the object of " boiling " meat is not to make soup 
but to retain the utmost amount of nutriment in the meat 
itself, large pieces of it should be plunged for a few minutes 
into boiling water, so as quickly to produce a cortex of hard- 
ened animal fibre, and it should then be cooked as slowly 
as possible at a temperature never exceeding 160° or 165° 
Fahrenheit. If the temperature be much lower than 160° 
the albuminoid substances do not coagulate, and the meat is 
not cooked. When the temperature is kept above 170° the 
muscular tissue shrinks^ and the meat is rendered hard and 
indigestible. 

' As the quantity of meat issued to a prisoner should not 
be more than is absolutely necessary, it is of the highest im. 
portance that it should be turned to the be&t^A/o^^sa^^'^ic^^^&si^ 
the "ounces " in the diet taUe ahoTx\ii\i«^ w\K>aJ\l T«^s«af^^ 
bjr properly cooked and d\geBti\A© Tn©a.\i m >2Bfe ^c«s»s» 



72 FOURTEENTH LESSON. 

'A prevalent fisinlt in prison kitchens is, tliat exoessiye 
heat is used and the meat converted into a condensed shrunken 
mass of little or no nutritive value. We think it right to ex- 
press ourselves strongly on this subject, on account of its 
great importance, and we must point out that it is useless to 
provide good meat unless such care be taken in cooking as to 
retain its nutritive properties in the highest possible degree.^ 

' But whatever care may be taken in cooking meat, a por- 
tion of its juices and salts will escape into the broth, and we 
recommend that this be served up with the meat to which it 
belongs. When the meat is served up on one day and the 
broth on another, as is sometimes done, the organism is de- 
prived for a time of a portion of those principles which it is 
the object of the meat ration to supply. The " salts " of the 
meat are as essential to nutriment as it's nitrogen or carbon.' ' 

The two soups we are going to make to-day shall contain 
all the three foods we must eat daily to be strong — ^viz., 
* body- warmers,' * flesh-formers,' and * mineral foods.' One 
soup will be made of meat-stock and vegetables, and the other 
will be made with vegetables and no butcher's meat. We 
will now wash the vegetables and cut them up ; the quantities 
of vegetables to be added to the meat-stock will be six ounces. 
The vegetables we shall use will be carrots, turnips, onions, 
and celery. The stock I have prepared was made of two 
pounds of meat and bone (shin of beef or brisket), and four 
pints of water, simmered for four hours. The vegetable soup 
will be made as follows : — Two pints of water, two ounces of 
green peas (carrots or any vegetable will do), one onion, one 
lettuce. All the vegetables must be cut up fine. If carrots 
are used they should be scraped (carrot soup is the nicest of 
all vegetable soups). To this must be added two cold pota- 
toes, or uncooked ones, one tablespoonful of flour or oatmeal, 
mixed up with two ounces of dripping, half a teaspoonfal of 
sugar, some salt and pepper, half a pint of mUk ; the milk to 

> The thermometer will be found oseM in showing the cooks that the 
temperature is often much higher than they suppose. 

' Taken from a copy of the Keport of the Committee appointed to in- 
qaire into the Dietaries in Prisons in England and 'WaXea, \^*l^. V^\sii<»^ 
Sir Selwyn Ihhotaon, 



SOUP. — PRESBBYE OB TBEAOLE BOLT POLT. 73 

be added when the vegetables are done.^ Milk is not necessary 
for the sonp, only it makes it more nourishing. These must 
all simmer gently for nearly an honr, and then the soup will 
be quite ready to be eaten. Split or dried peas require a 
much longer time — about two hours — and this is the most 
nourishing soup of all. 

As there are so many cooks we shall soon prepare the 
vegetables. Remember when you clean the carrot you must 
. scrape very little off, as the most nutritious part lies under the 
thin skin. The turnip has a very thick skin, so you must take 
off about one eighth of an inch, or the thickness of two 
pennies. The first meat-soup is the famous pot-au-feu that 
the French make. They put the meat and vegetables all on 
together very early in the morning into a strong stewpan 
with a good lid, and let the soup cook slowly for four hours, 
so that it is ready when they come home to their dinners. 
They put it on a stove, not on a fire, so that it can be safely 
lefb, as it never boils as our pans do. The French, Germans, 
and Russians, rich and poor, have some kind of soup every day. 

x To-day we are going to make a baked treacle roly poly. 
We say l^eacle, but of course we use golden syrup, which is 
treacle that has been made clean and clear. It is often more 
convenient to bake or steam rather than boil a pudding, be- 
cause these puddings do not require a cloth. At our next 
lesson we will steam a fruit pudding and make a baked rhu- 
barb or apple pudding. 

The great secret of making a good baked pudding is to 
have fresh juicy fruit, put plenty of sugar in, and let the 
pudding be well baked for about two hours in an oven the 
right heat, such as pastry requires. If properly done the 
pudding should turn out of the basin or mould very brown, 
and covered with a thick, rich juice. A baked fruit pudding 
should never be sent to table dry and a light colour. The 
crust is often made too thick, and baked too quickly. 

Beceij[>t for Preserve or Treacle Boly Poly. — ^Mix 3 oz. of 
finely chopped suet with half a pound of dry flour, about two 
tablespoonfuls of cold water, and a pinch of salt^iK^ll^"^^^ 

' Dr. Chambers's BUt in HeoUli OftA Diaww*. 



74 FOUBTBENTH LESSON. 

the thickness of about half an inch. A tablespoonfol of fine 
bread-crambs to be mixed with as mnoh treacle as will thickly 
cover the paste. If the treacle is spread alone oyer the paste, 
being thin or liquid, it runs out ; a few bread-crumbs make 
the treacle thick enough to spread about a quarter of an imck 
deep over the paste. Wet the edge of the paste with cold 
water, roll it up, and press the edges firmly together ; lay it 
in a dripping tin, and bake slowly for about one hour and 
a half. Some people prefer the crust to be made of dripping. 
Receipt for Baked Fruit Fuddmg, — Suet crust made exactly 
like the above, and rolled out to the same thickness. Rub a 
basin inside with either dripping or butter, sprinkle wiiih 
sugar, and then line with paste, and fill it to the top with 
either rhubarb or apples, cut to the size of an inch. Add two 
tablespoonfuls of sugar, cover over with a crust wetted 
round the edge with cold water, and press it to the lining. 
Bake for about two hours in a moderate oven. A boiled or 
steamed pudding is made in exactly the same way. In the 
csbse of the steamed pudding, care must be taken to keep the 
water under the steamer constantly boiling, and, of course, the 
water must boil before the pudding is put into the steamer, 
In making either a boiled or steamed pudding, the cook must 
remember not to put any sugar in the bottom of the basin, as 
is done in a baked pudding. A baked pudding, like a loaf of 
bread, should first be put on the bottom part of the oven, and 
then lifted on to the top shelf to brown. 

Apparatus and Articles Required. 

Component parts of beef. 

Glass jap with clear stock. 

Stock prepared so that only the gelatine is left. 

Stock enough for the meat soup. 

Packet of gelatine. 

Questions for Fourteenth Lesson, 

1. Why ought the water or stock in which any fresh butcher's meat op 
vegetables have been boiled (except potatoes in their skins) never 
to be thrown away, but pomred while it is hot into a clean jug or 
basin? 

il What is the white substance called scum, aa.^ 'WVrj ^o«!>^ Sx. T«fe Va tha 
top of the water in which hntchex*B meat ot '^eg^\>Ts\i\^^ «ca>a^^t 



SOUPS. — PEBSBEVK OR TBBACLE ROLY POLY. 7 



r 



3. Why do doctors seldom allow a nurse to give jelly to patients, 

who are very weak or have delicate stomachs ? 

4. Tell me how you would make a soup with meat so that it should con- 

tain ' body-warmers/ * flesh-formers,* and * mineral foods ; ' also a 
soup that should contain these three things without any meat? 

Receipts for Fourteenth Lesaooi. 

« 

Meat Soup. — Stock made of 2 lbs. of fresh meat and bone ; shin of beef 
is suitable, or brisket, and 4 pints of water, simmered 4 hours ; 6 oz. in all of 
the following vegetables — carrots, turnips, onions, and celery. 

VBaETABLE Soup. — Two piuts of water, 2 oz. of green peas (carrots or 
any^vegetables will do), 1 onion, 1 lettuce. All these vegetables must be 
cut up fine ; if carrots are used, they should be scraped (carrot soup is the 
nicest of all vegetable soups). To this must be added 2 cold potatoes, or 
uncooked ones, 1 tablespoonful of flour or oatmeal, mixed up with 2 oz. of 
dripping, half a teaspoonful of sugar, some salt and pepper, half a pint of 
milk. The milk to be added when the vegetables are done. Milk is not 
necessary for the soup, only it makes it more nourishing. These must all 
simmer gently for nearly an hour, and then the soup will be quite ready to 
be eaten. Split or dried peas require a much longer time (about 2 hours), 
and this is the most nourishing soup of all. 

Full directions about making stock on page 69. 

Pbeskrve or Treacle Kolt Poly. — Mix 3 oz. of finely-chopped suet 
with half a poimd of dry flour, about 2 tablespoonfuls of cold water, and a 
pinch of salt. KoU out to the thickness of about half an inch. A table- 
spoonful of fine bread-crumbs to be mixed with as much treacle as will 
thickly cover the paste. If the treacle is spread alone over the paste, being 
thin or liquid, it runs out ; a few bread-crumbs make the treacle thick 
enough to spread about a quarter of an inch deep over the paste. Wet 
the edge of the paste with cold water, roll it up, and press the edges firmly 
together ; lay it in a dripping tin and bake slowly for about one hour and a 
half. Some people prefer the crust to be made of dripping. 

Baked Fruit Pudding. — Suet crust made exacUy like the above, 
and rolled out to the same thickness. Eub a basin inside with either 
dripping or butter, sprinkle with sugar, and then line witli paste, and fill 
it to the top with either rhubarb or apples cut to the size of an inch. Add 
two tablespoonfuls of sugar, cover over with a crust wetted round the edge 
with cold water, and press it to the lining. Bake for about two hours in 
a moderate oven. A boiled or steamed pudding is made in exactly the 
same way. In the case of the steamed pudding, care must be taken to 
keep the water under the steamer constantly boiling, and, of course, the 
water* must boil before the pudding is put into the steamer. In making 
either a boiled or steamed padding the cook must remember not to put any 
sugar in the bottom of the basin, as is done in a baked ^^ddx^d^, ^N^^S^i^^ 
pudding, like a Joaf of bread, should ftiBt\» ^gofc otwVJaa'Vsi^^K.Qisi.^^pa^.^^'^ 
oven, and then lifted on tx> the top BJidE io\ytoirQu 



76 FIFTEENTH LESSON. 



FIFTEENTH LESSON. 

COOKEBY— continued, 

PKA SOTJP — ON BOILING — BOILED BABBIT AND ONION SAUCE, OB BOILSD 
MEAT OB BACON — HASTT FUDDINa AND TBEACLB — CLEAN AND TBT7SS A 
FOWL. 

Peas are a most nourishing food because they contain a great 
many substances that form flesh. As they do not contain 
many substances that contain fat, called * body-warmers,* 
they ought to be cooked with some fat meat, either pork or 
bacon. The stock we are gomg to make our pea soup of 
to-day is the water some bacon was boiled in yesterday. When 
peas and fat are cooked together they make an excellent hot 
dinner for people who are working hard out of doors in winter 
time. Split peas are the best kind ; they should be soaked 
overnight in cold water. The bad peas will float on the top of 
the water like bad eggs, and should be removed. It is better 
to cook the peas by themselves until they are tender, and then 
add the peas and the water they have been boiled in to the 
stock and the other vegetables, and simmer together for two 
hours. The peas and bacon can, of course, be cooked together 
for three or four hours if there is no time to soak the peas 
overnight. The soup to-day will be made of the following 
ingredients: — Two quarts of stock, one quart of split, peas, 
one head of celery, four onions, two carrots, and two turnips ; 
all to be chopped flne. As our peas have soaked overnight 
the soup will be ready when it has simmered for one and a 
half or two hours. 

You are now going to learn how to boil any kind of animal 
food so that all its juices shall be kept in and not brought 
out into the water. To-day we are going to boil a rabbit, that 
you may know how to clean one, and how to tell an old one 
from a young one. A young rabbit has smooth sharp claws ; 
if the rabbit is unskinned and has not been opened, you must 
cut it open and take out all that is inside, then skin it in the 
following way: — 

Rabbits, dressed or undressed, aboxilS. «i\^a5%"V» ^Y^^ ^ 



RABBITS AND FOWLS. 11 

hot water before they are cooked. When skinned, wash the 
rabbit well in cold water and let it soak for a quarter of an 
hour in warm water to draw out the blood. Then bring the 
head round to the side of the body and fasten it there by 
means of a skewer run through the head and into the body. 
The rabbit must then be put into a pan and quite covered over 
with boiling water, and let it simmer until tender, which will be 
in about an hour, or three quarters of an hour. When put on 
the dish to send to table, it ought to be quite covered over 
with onion sauce. The boiling water into which the rabbit was 
put will harden the outside and keep in all the juices. 

A fowl with black legs is not so white when boiled as one 
with white ones. In order to find out whether the fowl is 
young, press the breast-bone of a fowl just at the end where 
the opening is made to clean out the inside. If this part is 
very soft like gristle, and not hard like bone, you may be sure 
that the fowl is a young one. 

First pluck off the feathers and pull out all the hard 
pointed quills called pens, which are very numerous in young 
fowls. Then singe off the long hairs with a piece of lighted 
paper ; take out the inside. Great care must be taken not to 
break the gall bladder, which is very bitter, and if broken 
would cause the fowl to have a bitter taste and be spoiled. 
Wash the fowl well in cold water ; cut off the neck, leaving 
skin enough to skewer back ; cut the feet off to the first joint, 
tuck the stumps into a slit made on each side of the belly, twist 
the wings over the back of the fowl, and fasten the top of the 
leg and the bottom of the wing together by running a skewer 
through the wings and the body. This is called ' trussing a 
fowl.' I should always dip a fowl, ready dressed, in warm 
water before either roasting or boiling it, as poultry, like 
butcher's meat, is handled by dirty hands and put on dirty 
places, though some cooks will tell you that a fowl ought not 
to be washed at all. 

Qv^tiona for Fifteenth Lesson. 

1. Why 18 pea soup a good dish for cold weather ? 

2. How would yon skin and dean a xabbiX.^ ^^ 

3. How would you prepare afo^l lot eooV\T^^V3Mw\.Vft^^^^.\«^^ 

nor bad its feathers phifikn^t 



78 SIXTEENl'H LESSON. 



Receipts for Fifteenth Lesson. 

Pba Sotjp.t—Two quarts of stock from boiled bacon, or any stock "writh 
a little bacon, 1 lb. or pint of split peas, 1 head of celery, 4 onions, 2 cairots, 
and 2 turnips. All to be chopped fine and simmered. If the peas have 
soaked overnight, an hour and a half or two hours are sufficient. Pepper 
and salt to taste, and when served, add a little dried mint. 

Hasty Puddinq. — ^Boil 1 pint of milk ; a pinch of salt. Sprinkle 
gradually into the milk about 4 tablespoonfiils of flour, beating the mixture 
all the time with a fork while it is simmering, until it is rather thicker 
than batter. Then let it simmer for five minutes. 



SIXTEENTH LESSON. 

COOKERY— continued, 

sheep's head — SUET DUMFLXNGS — PICKLED CABBAGE AND OKIONS DBIBD 

HEBBS, PABSLET, MINT, MABJOBAM, SAGE, THTME. 

The sheep's bead has been washed thoroughly as yon can see ; 
it has also soaked for two hours in warm water, so as to get 
rid of the blood. It must be put into this saucepan and 
completely covered over with cold water. Directly it boils we 
will put in these vegetables when they have been cut up : 
thi-ee carrots, three turnips, three onions, sprig of parsley, a 
teaspoonf ul of salt, a teaspoonful of pepper. Mix two table- 
spoonfcds of Scotch oatmeal smoothly with a little stock out 
of the pan, and then gradually stir it into the pan and keep 
stirring until the broth boils. The pan should then be taken 
off the fire and placed where it can only simmer for one and 
a half or two hours. Care must be taken to fasten the lid of 
the saucepan down tight. 

Suet dumplings are excellent cooked in the sheep's head 

broth. I have brought all the things ready mixed so that we 

shall only have to make the paste into dumplings and put 

^Jiem into the broth as quickly as poBeible, «a ^^y mil take 

^s hn^ ss the broth to cook. The dumpAmga ate xosAa oi M^aa 



PICKLED GAB6AQE AND ONIONS. 79 

following quantities : 1 lb. of flour, 6 oz. of snet, very finely 
chopped, a pinch of salt, and a gill of either milk or water. 
A snet pndding made like this is very good boiled in a long 
roly-poly shape, and when done cnt into slices and put into 
the dripping pan for a minnte or two, and then browned 
before the fire ; children like this very much with roast meat 
or gravy. At our next lesson we will prepare the sheep's 
head and everything we have cooked to-day for the broth, for 
you to see how to make it yourselves. 

While the broth is cooking I will show you how to pickle 
red or white cabbages, for they are the same in every way 
except in colour. We will take off the outside leaves of this 
fresh cabbage, cut it into four quarters, take away the stalk, 
and then cut the quarters into shreds very fine, lay them on 
this dish, and cover with plenty of salt. Some people let the 
cabbage lie in the salt for twenty-four hours, but I think two 
or three hours are plenty, as the salt draws out all the juices 
and spoils the colour. I shall let it stand in the salt until I 
have boiled half-a-pint of vinegar and 1 oz. of black pepper, 
and a little sugar. I shall then squeeze the cabbage quite dry 
to get out the salt, put it into a jar, and pour the vinegar 
over it when it is cold. 

This cabbage can be eaten the next day, or it will keep, if 
the jar is covered over, for several weeks. 

Fichled Onions. — 1 lb. of small pickling onions, 1 pint of 
vinegar, \ oz. of pepper, a little ginger. Take care the onions 
are quite ripe ; the stalks are then dry and fall off. Ripe 
onions when pickled will keep for a year, but unripe ones not 
for more than a short time. Peel the onions and wash in cold 
salt and water, in which they must stand for one hour. Half 
fche quantity of vinegar is to simmer for half an hour with the 
pepper and ginger, then to be poured through a sieve, and 
added to the cold vinegar, and poured over the onions. Cover 
up the jar, and do not use for three months. 

It is now the time of year for storing up dried herbs such 
as thyme, marjoram, sage, parsley, and mint, for winter use. 
I have taken care that the herbs are quite fresh o^ad t?c^^ 
just rinsed in a little cold water. "Wieii ^ '"Saa Va.-^^^ ^m>?*^ 
been stripped off the stems tlaey iaTX&\i \» Y^^ ^'^ ^e^'w^* 



80 SIXTEENTH LESSON. 

pieces of white paper in tbe oven, or on the top of the oven, 
and left there until all the leaves have become crisp and dry, 
so that they can be rubbed through a sieve. Should there 
be no sieve the leaves may be rubbed between the hands 
into a fine powder, if the hands are very clean and quite dry. 
The bottles are labelled ready to receive four kinds of herbs. 
If the bottles are corked their contents will keep for a year. 
Some people have an untidy habit of keeping dried herbs 
wrapped up in paper. 

At the end of this lesson I shall give you some questions 
which I am sure you will be able to answer, as you have been 
learning daring the last year the use of the different kitchen 
utensils that are mentioned in the questions. I will now tell 
you how you can keep bread so that the crust shall not 
become soft. Afber the bread has been baked and become 
quite cold, it ought to be kept in an earthenware pan that 
stands in a dry cool place, covered with a lid that has holes in 
it ; a wooden lid is best, because china ones so easily break. 
If the earthenware pan is not glazed, air will pass through 
the pan. Flour is a food that is eaten by germs that are always 
floating in the air and ready to fall into any food they like, 
particularly if the food is a little damp. If flour were kept in 
a damp cupboard it would soon become very damp and full of 
mites and living germs. We must therefore take great care 
that the jar that holds the flour shall stand in a dry place and 
shall keep out the air and the little living germs in the air. 
The jar should be covered with glaze outside, because the 
glaze prevents the air from getting in, and the lid should have 
no holes. An earthenware jar prevents the flour from sinking 
into any holes or comers, as it does into the comers of a 
wooden box or a tin box. A jar can also be easily washed oat 
once a week, and above all be easily made perfectly dry. 
If the bread is kept in a wooden box, when it is washed the 
water runs into the comers and into the wood, and takes a 
very long time to get perfectly dry. I am glad that we have 
found during our lessons that the cheapest utensils are the 
best and sweetest. 



COOKING UTEKSILS. 



81 



Questions for Sixteenth Lesson. 

1. Tell me how many of the following cooking utensils a working man's 
wife ought to have. The price of each utensil is given. How 
much money would it take to buy all you think she would want ? 



Price each. 




Price each. 




8. 


d. 






8, 


d. 


Iron saucepans from ls.9d. 






Paste-board 




1 


2 


to .... 


. 3 





Pepper-box 







4 


Thick iron frying-pan 


. 1 


6 


Hand brush 







6 


Thick gridiron . 


. 3 





Scrubbing brush 







6 


Iron kettle 


. 4 


6 


Soap box 







6 


Bottle-jack 


. 10 


6 


Black-lead brush 







8 


Dripping-pan . 


. 1 


3 


Earthenware bread-pan, 






Yorkshire pudding tin 


. 


8 


with wooden lid with holes 


1 


6 


Wooden spoons . 


. 


2 


Earthenware pan 


for flour, 






Iron spoons 


. 


3 


glazed, with wooden lid 






Knife-box 


. 2 





without holes 


• • 


1 


4 


Colander (tin) . 


, 1 


6 


Brown jars for 


holding 






Dredging-box . 


. 1 





sugar, rice, and all gro- 






Wooden bowl . 


2 


4 


ceries 


• • 





4 


BoUing-pin 


. 


4 


Steamer . 


• • 


2 






2. What kind of saucepans do you think are the safest, strongest, and 

most easily kept sweet and clean? 

3. What is the best material for making the kitchen cloths and dusters 

that are required in a cottage home ? How many would a yard 
make ? What number would be wanted for a week's use and a 
change, and how much would they all cost? 

4. Why is an earthenware pan the best to keep bread so that the crust 

shall not become soft ? Why should the lid (made of wood) 
always be kept on, and have some holes in it ? A pan like this is 
also the best for keeping cheese. 

5. Why is an earthenware jar that is glazed inside, and has a tight- 

fitting lid without holes, the best for keeping flour ? 



Receipts for Sixteenth Lesson. 

Pickled Onions. — 1 lb. of small pickling onions, 1 pint of vinegar, 
^ oz. of pepper, a little ginger. Take care the onions are quite ripe ; the 
stalks are then dry and fall off. Bipe onions when pickled will keep for a 
year, but not if unripe for more than a short time. Peel the onions and 
wash in cold salt and water, in which they must stand for one ha\a. "^^iS. 
the quantity of vinegar is to simmer for lia\i «tt YLcnoa ^>LJEL>i?Ra^'^^'^ '^'^ 

Q 



82 SBVENTKENTH LESSON. 

ginger, then tu be poured through a sieve and added to the cold vinegar 
and poured over the onions. Cover up the jar, and do not use for three 
months. 

Shebp's Hem) Bboth. — The sheep's head to be washed thoroughly, and 
to soak for 2 hours in warm water to get rid of the blood, then put into a 
saucepan and completely cover with cold water. Directly it boils put in 
the following vegetables, when they have been cut up: 3 carrots, 3 turnips, 
3 onions, sprig of parsley, a teaspoonful of salt, a teaspoonful of pepper. 
Mix 2 tablespoonfuls of Scotch oatmeal smoothly with a little stock out of 
the pan, then gradually stir it into the pan, and keep stirring until the 
broth boils. The pan should then be taken off the fire and put where it 
can only simmer for one and a half or two hours. Care must be taken to 
£isten the lid of the saucepan down tight. 

SuBf Dumplings. — 1 lb. of flour, 6 oz. of suet, very finely chopped, a 
pinch of salt, and a gill of either milk or water. Dumpling to be boiled in 
the sheep's head broth. 



SEVENTEENTH LESSON. 

COOKERY— continued. 

MACCARONI WITH CHBE8B — ^A MOULD OF SJEMOLINA— COCOA — COFFBB 

POBBIDGB. 

Before we cook the maccaroni we will again look at the 
principal substances contained in a ponnd of flour. Gluten 
and all the flesh-formers are, you see, placed together. 
Gluten is the same substance as albumen. Maccaroni is 
made chiefly of gluten that has been taken out of wheaten 
flour, and is a very nourishing flesh-former. It is very easily 
cooked, and not expensive, because a small quantity swells 
very much with cooking. Two ounces make a good-sized 
dish. The best kind is sold in straight sticks, and is eight- 
pence per pound. We will break these two ounces of long 
sticks into pieces of about four inches, and put them into this 
saucepan of boiling water, with a little salt, wherQ they will 
have plenty of room to swell. Place the pan where the mac- 
caroni can simmer, and cook gently. "WVieiL \V. \& ^\\a Vaiidj^r 
I shall take it out, spread it on a Bat d\a\x^ «A^ ^VA.V\a ^^^^^t 



TEA, COCOA, COFFEE. 83 

and salt, scrape two onnces of new Cheshire cheese all over 
the top, and put it in front of the fire to brown. This dish is 
very nourishing, as cheese is also a flesh-former. 

Semolina is ronghly-groond wheat of a hard kind that 
contains a great deal of gluten and is very nntritions, because 
besides gluten it has all the other good things which wheat 
possesses. I shall put one tablespoonful into half a pint of 
milk, sweeten with two tablespoonfuls of sugar, and let it 
simmer very gently on the top of the oven for half an hour. 
It must be well stirred for the first ten minutes. As soon as 
it is ready I shall pour it into this basin that has been well 
rinsed out with cold water. When the semolina is cold it will 
turn out, and be very nice eaten with treacle, sugar, or pre- 
serve. Semolina is also very good eaten hot. In the summer 
time cold moulds made in the same way of whole or ground 
rice are very nice. 

Bevalenta arabica is ground lentils, and is very nutritious. 

I have brought the substances contained in one pound of 
tea and one pound of cocoa to show you, so that you may see 
how much more nourishment there is in cocoa than there is 
in tea. Coffee contains the same substances as tea, except 
caffeine, which is the flavouring matter of coffee. Cocoa 
contains two body-warmers — cocoa-butter and some starch, 
also some flesh-formers — gluten, Ac. 

Theobromine is the flavouring matter that soothes people's 
nerves, just as the theine and caffeine do in tea and coffee. 
Like all flavouring matter it is very delicate, and is spoiled if 
boiled ; for this reason we never allow tea, coffee, or cocoa to 
be put on the fire ; only pour boiling water over them. The 
best cocoa is Epps's cocoa nibs, and should be made in the 
following way. 

Oocoa.— Nibs are Is, 4d. per lb. (this cocoa is of course 
quite genuine). 1 oz. of nibs to 3 pints of water ; stew gently 
in a jar in the oven 1^ hours, or on the top of the oven to 
simmer for 3 or 4 hours. It is very good taken with half 
the quantity of boiling milk, or less if preferred ; sweeten to 
taste. Some people will put the Jar oi cQ(OQ^\i^'*Qaa ^s^^sa. ^^^^ 
night to bo ready for brealrfoat. ^^iotl w»q»^ *^ ^o^s^'^ ^^^ 

Q 2 



84 SEVENTEENTH LESSON. 

the packet which is gronnd cocoa a teaspoonfnl is pnt into the 
cup and boiling water is poared on to it and well stirred. 
Milk is added to taste. 

Ton all know how to make a cup of tea, but not many 
English people can make a good cup of coffee. I will teach 
you how to make it as it is made in France, Germatrj, and 
Bussia, where rich and poor take it instead of tea for their 
breakfast. They never put it on the fire to boil any more 
than tea, but lukve a coffee-pot like this, which has a little 
strainer in the middle upon which the coffee rests. The 
boiling water that is poured into it passes over the coffee 
and falls into the bottom part. You can take off the top part 
where the coffee dregs are, and put the lid over the under 
pan and send it to table. 

The very best coffee is spoiled and disagreeable if it is not 
very hot. The first thing will be to take care that the coffee 
pot is made very hot by pouring boiling water into it. When 
it has been poured out I shall put in two tablespoonftils of 
coffee, and then take care to pour boiling water over the 
coffee and place the pot, while the water is running through, 
on the top of the oven, or where it can be kept very hot. 
The milk must also be very hot, though not boiling. The 
French half fill the cup with milk and then pour in the coffee. 
This with sugar is a very nourishing drink. This coffee-pot 
cost 28. , and can be bought at any respectable tinman's 
shop. 

This is your last lesson of the course, which has lasted a 
year. During these lessons I have endeavoured to teach yon 
that even strong people who have done growing cannot be 
healthy unless they eat three kinds of food daily — ^viz., ' body- 
warmers,' * flesh- formers,' and * mineral foods ' — and that 
these different foods will not nourish every part of the body 
unless they are cooked so that all the substances they contain 
are kept in and the food is made tender. If food is cooked 
with too little heat the food is tough and indigestible, and if 
too much heat be uJ3ed the food is also made tough and the 
osmazome or flavouring matter is carried away, which is the 
substance that tempts an invalid or a d^\c»\» ^et^i^. Va 
eat, and gives him the power to digest t\i^ioo^\i^ V%» \»«iv 



DIFPBBENT KINDS OF POODS. 86 

tempted to eat. All kinds of food are best eaten fresh, be- 
cause the air, or the oxygen gas in the air, soon gets into 
them and spoils their flavonr and changes their nature. 

All foods, as you have seen by examining the contents of 
milk, flour, eggs, beef, potatoes, coffee, tea, and cocoa, contain 
some water — just the quantity of course that is required 
to mix all the different substances together. You will find 
that the foods that change or go bad the most quickly are 
those that have the greatest quantity of water. For instance, 
milk, butcher's meat, fresh vegetables and fruit, very soon go 
bad, and contain an immense quantity of water. Wheat, oats, 
tea, cofEee, or cocoa have very little water — only from 1 oz. to 
1^ oz. in a pound. When some foods are preserved the water 
is sent out in steam by great heat, and the flavouring matter 
and some of the juices must go out with the steam. Butcher's 
meat is made to keep by rubbing salt over it, which draws 
out the water and juices. Salt beef, ham, bacon, &c., will 
keep for a long time, because the water, juices, &o,, run out 
into the salt brine, which is thrown away. Yery salt meat is 
a dear food, because when it is eaten it does not make good 
pure blood that can feed and strengthen every part of the 
body. Salt meat should always be eaten with a good quan. 
tity of potatoes, or any fresh vegetables or fruit, all of which 
contain the mineral foods that have been dravim out by the 
salt. Our sailors still suffer from scurvy on long voyages, 
because they are obliged to eat salt meat without potatoes or 
any fresh vegetables or &uit. It is not the salt that gives 
the scurvy : it is the meat without its juices and minerals 
which causes this terrible disease. 

Milk is preserved in tins by using great heat, that drives 
out the steam or water. A great quantity of white sugar is 
put into the Swiss milk, which makes it thick and prevents 
it from going bad. A mother's milk contains some stlgar, but 
it is quite a different kind of sugar from that we make. The 
sugar that is manufactured sometimes ferments in the stomach 
and turns sour, but the sugar in a mother's milk does not. 
Children who are fed on this preserved miI!t''w\Sl^ws«!fi^QcsBss6. 
grow very fat, because the sugar taTii<a VnV^ 1^ ^si. ^^isia Xsj"^^- 
CbUdren grow fat that are fed on ftie fe^io^Ti"^^^^^^'*^'^''*^ 



86 SEVENTEENTH LESSON. 

contain nothing bnt starch, and starch, like sngar, is oliaiiged 
into fat : — 



Oswego. 
Maizena. 
Corn-flour. 
Arrowroot. 
Cassava meal. 
Potato-starch. 
Sago. 
Sago meal. 



Salep. 

Tdcca starch or Otaheite 

arrowroot. 
T&pioca. 
Tapioca meal or Brazilian 

Arrowroot. 
TouB-le-mois (West Indian). 



Thongh the infant or child looks fat, and the nurse is 
very prond of its great size and very mnch astonished that 
such a fine child cannot walk when it gets to be a year Old, 
directly the doctor sees the poor fat baby he knows it has 
been starved or pined by being fed on only one kind of food, 
that could not make bone, muscle, flesh, or nerves, only fot. 
He then tells the mother that her child has a complaint called 
'rickets,' which may make it a cripple for life, or leave it 
with poor, weak, crooked legs. If people who have done 
growing cannot be strong and healthy unless they eat daily 
* body-warmers,' 'flesh-formers,* and mineral foods, how is 
it possible for a growing infant to be strong unless it has all 
these foods to feed its fat'and flesh and n[iake its bones strong? 
Until a child is seven years old its bones are not quite hard. 
New milk has every substance to be found in animal and 
vegetable foods. If mother's milk cannot be got, the baby 
should have daily three pints of new cow's milk until it has 
cut some teeth. Though flour and bread is such a nourishing 
food for children, an infant would suffer agonies of pain and 
be soon pined to death if fed on it, because the saliva in its 
mouth cannot digest the starch in the flour and turn it into 
sugar. When it begins to cut its teeth the saliva becomes 
quite different, just like the saliva which grown-up people 
have. Children ought to have nothing but milk until they 
are nine months old. 

Dr. Ferguson, who examines and weighs factory children 
evaiyr week to see if they are strong enough to go to work, 
jsajv that he Ends that young people "beWeen ^^ %i^^ ^ 
^M-t^fl ^nd ffj^teeji who ar^ fe^i ou wWi iox \sit«»Jfe.^^'^ w.^ 



MILK. — OATMEAL PORRIDGE. 87 

supper, grow twice as fast as those fed on tea and coffee. I 
am very glad to think that children are now not allowed to 
go to work until a medical man considers they are fit to 
labour. 

Oatmeal porridge is excellent food for breakfast if it is 
properly made, but it is generally too little cooked, burnt, 
and lompy. Coarsely-ground Scotch oatmeal is the best. I 
will now show you how to make it. I shall mix two table- 
spoonfuls of oatmeal with a teacupfcd of cold water until it is 
quite smooth in this basin ; then pour in a pint of boiling 
water, and keep frequently stirring. The pan should either 
be put on the hob or hung on the recon for nearly three- 
quarters of an hour. A great many people cook oatmeal in a 
double pan, or by putting the pan with oatmeal into a larger 
one filled with boiling water. 

Apparatus, ^c. Required, 

Component parts of flour. 
„ „ of milk. 

„ „ of tea. 

„ „ of cocoa. 

„ of 1 lb. of potatoes, to show the great quantity of 
water in fresh vegetables. 



Receipts for Seventeenth Lesson. 

Maccaboni and Ohkese. — 2 oz. of maccaroni. The straight sticks must 
be broken into small pieces of about four inches, or to suit the saucepan. 
Boil in water until tender ; then place in a dish, a little salt and pepper 
added, and some cheese grated over the top ; then put into a hot oven until 
it is nicely browned. 

Mould of SsHOLmA. — 1 tablespoonful of semolina ; ^ pint of milk ; 
sweeten with 2 teaspoonfuls of sugar. Stir for ten minutes, and then sim- 
mer for 1 hour or more. Pour it into a basin that has been well rinsed 
with cold water. (Pull directions given at p. 83.) 

Cocoa. — Nibs are Is. 4(2. per lb. (this cocoa is of course quite genuine). 
1 oz. of nibs to S pints of water. Stew gently in ajar in the oven labours, 
or on the top of the oven to simmer for 3 or 4 hours. It is very good taken 
with half the quantity of boiling milk, or less if "gTOfwcwd.*, «^««SyiscL\si\».^i«k. 
Some people wiU put the jar of cocoa m t\ift o-^wa. «KL\sv^gD^»\»'*^^J^'**«^ '^^'*' 
breakfast. When cocoa is made from VXiftiBaidlM^,,^\&^*>»^EP«^^^*^ 



»» 



88 EIGHTEENTH LESSON. 

a teaspoonfol is put into the cup, and boiling water is poured on to it ud 
well stirred. Milk is added to taste. 

FoBBiDOB. — Mix 2 tablespoonftils of coarsely ground Scotch oatmeal 
with a teacupful of cold water until it is quite smooth, and then pour in a 
pint of boiling water, and keep frequently stirring it in the pan, whieh 
must be either on the hob or hung on the recon, or put into a jar in 
boiling water, where it can simmer without fear of burning for three- 
quarters of an hour. Some prefer to use a double saucepan for making 
porridge, as it must be well and slowly done, or it is not wholesome. 



EIGHTEENTH LESSON. 
LECTURE ON DIET, WARMTH, AND CLOTHING. 

Whenevee we hear of wonderful cases in which people have 
been able to live without solid food for ten days like the poor 
Welsh miners, or for a year Hke the Welsh * fasting.g^l ' in 
1868, we shall find that the people who had to undergo this 
privation had three things, namely, water, warmth, and quiet; 
that is to say, they had no work to do and no exercise. In 
the case of i^e Welsh ' fasting-girl,' she always remained in 
bed ; directly the doctors who were sent down to watch the case 
saw that she really had no solid food or water she gradually 
sank, and died at the end of about a week. When the fat in 
the body is reduced to a certain quantity death occurs; for 
instance, if a man weighs 100 pounds, he will die when he 
weighs only 60 pounds. The fat pig that was buried for 160 
days under three feet of chalk came out very thin but alive ; 
he had taken the water which had trickled down the rocks, 
the close little room kept him warm. 

Invalids who have become very thin afber a severe illness 
ofben owe their lives to being kept very quiet. A knowledge 
of the facts I have mentioned has proved very valuable to 
persons who have been shut up in times of siege ; they knew 
that their lives depended upon warm clothing and quiet. 

Doctors know directly when a person is dying of starva- 



STABVATION. 89 

tiou. Sad cases soznetiines occur because people do not know 
certain signs which are nnmistakeable. Starving people 
become very tliin ; their faces grow very pale and livid ; their 
lips white, because the red corpuscles in the blood grow daily 
fewer; their eyes have a dreadful expression, look bright, 
stare, and never seem to wink ; the limbs move very slowly, 
the voice is feeble, they stagger like drunken men. It is in 
this stage of starvation policemen sometimes mistake the poor 
sufferer for a drunkard, and carry him off to the lock-up. 
The little blood they have flies to the brain; that organ, sad to 
say, works night and day, because in starvation the power of 
sleep dies away. They picture the most delicious foods, and 
fancy they are eating them ; after a time the desire for food 
goes, the juices that digest the food disappear, digestion 
becomes more and more difficult, until at last the appetite goes 
altogether and the breathing is very slow. Dr. Chambers 
gives this terrible description of starvation, and says that 
some of these signs may be seen by watching a half-starved 
London needlewoman as she enters her poor home. 

There was a very fine picture in the Royal Academy in 
1874, called the ' Casual Ward ;' a man asking to be taken in 
at a workhouse. Dr. Chambers says that the wonderful effect 
which that picture had upon all who saw it arose from the 
fact that the artist who painted it knew perfectly all the 
signs of starvation. The same authority says that want of 
food injures and weakens the brain as well as the body, and 
that whenever famine appears crime and brutolity inune- 
diately break out. 

Erasmus Wilson, the distinguished ' skin doctor,' speaks 
very strongly, in his book on the skin, about the necessity of 
good food for young people. The diet of children cannot, he 
says, be too varied. Change of food to the stomach is what 
change of air is to the general health. This he considers 
so rational a view that he wonders how anyone can 'hold a 
different opinion ; yet, he declares, * I have met with parents 
who come to me and boast that their children are fed exclusively 
on mutton.' Another mania is to give them only a certain 
quantity, not allowing the children to satisfy their hunger. 
On one occasion he was consulted for era^ionaot ^3^5^ ^kp" 



90 EIGHTEENTH LESSON. 

and, after pnHing certain qaestions, lie fonnd, as he expected, 
that the eruptions were caused by starvation. Direotlj these 
children had plenty of food and a proper variety of it, their 
heads recovered. Dr. Chambers says that a deficient diet 
would also cause the following symptoms : — a glazed appearu 
ance in the eyes, an ulcer in the cornea, and finally blindness. 
When these symptoms are met with in reformatories, orphan 
asylums, and all other public institutions, they ought, he 
says, to be closely watched, for people are apt to think these 
cases must be treated by lowering the quantity of food, 
whereas that treatment soon takes away all chance of re- 
covery. T have frequently been told myself, by rich and poor 
mothers, that it was strange that their children had these 
breakings-out, as they had given them several doses of opening 
medicine. 

Doctors often find that they can restore the insane by 
giving them good food. Brain diseases, it is said, cause 81 
per cent, of all deaths in London before the age of ten ; 92 
per cent, before the age of fifteen. I cannot understand how 
children can grow up strong, either morally, mentally, or 
bodily, who go to schools where they are not only frightened 
by the brutality of bigger boys or girls, but are underfed, over- 
worked, and breathe bad air at an age when they are least 
able to bear these hardships. 

The following are two dietaries drawn up by Dr. Chambers 
and Dr. Smith for children in the nursery, and for boys and 
girls at school : — 



Diet for School Boys and OirU. 

There should be four meals daily. 
Breakfast. — Porridge, treacle, new milk half-a-pint. 
Girls the same, or caf6 au lait (cofiee with half-a-pint of 
new milk), butter and bread without limit. 

DmNEE. — Joints of meat, always hot and always fresh ; 
salt meat never oftener than once a week, and so lightly 
I salted that the liquor can be used for \>Tot\i «A. V^v^ «».t£l^ tqs«\, 
Md»t nnJ/mited* A variety of fresh ^egetaiJcAft^-. ^^«5% ^V»r 



DIET. — CLOTHING. 91 

toes ; Split peas ; Frencb. beans and rice boiled in meat liquor. 
Padding daily after meat: rice and other farinaceous pud- 
dings made of milk ; tifber them come suet puddings, boiled 
or baked, made also of milk; and roly-poly preserve pud- 
dings and similar puddings made with suet. On days when 
soup is given, the pudding might be supplied by bread and 
cheese. 

Tba. — ^Half-a-pint of warm or cold new milk ; bread and 
butter in unlimited quantity. Tea for girls if required ; large 
quantity of milk. 

SuppBB. — Bread and cheese, if bread and milk have been 
given for tea. 

ChUd/ren^s Diet in Nursery. 

Children should have four meals a day, but meat only 
at one, or at most two ; the latter when a small portion is 
allowed. YHien in health they should have no wine or beer, 
no coffee, strong tea, or other exciting drinks. Once cooked 
succulent meat, without sauces or condiments, eggs, plenty of 
farinaceous pudding, mealy potatoes, carrots, spinach, French 
beans, rice, bread, fresh butter, porridge, roast apples, and 
oranges should form the staple of the nursery commissariat. 

A great many parents and guardians hold as ignorant 
ideas about clothing their children as they do about feeding 
them ; clothing is of as much importance to young children as 
their food. Every part of an infant should be covered up but 
its head. If a baby's head is kept hot it will dream and be 
feverish and restless ; it is not intended that its brains should 
work. For that reason great care ought to be taken to keep 
its head cool. A baby has generally no hair on its head when 
it is bom, and the effect of this is to keep it cool. Nurses 
won't believe this. They will cover the head both by day 
and when it is in bed, in spite of all the doctors say. Every 
other part of its body ought to be kept very warm, or the 
blood will not be able to pass through the c&^ill&xv^^^^^^ 
the Besh. What is the use of fee^an^ «b <3k^^ ^«VQcl ^g^j^^s^ 
Jf the foodf when it is inade iatoUood, cnmbksX. ^\» cs^^ 



92 EIGHTEENTH LESSON. 

capillaries to feed the body ? Gold shuts np these wonderful 
little blood-vessels; therefore a child will starve iinless its 
limbs are covered up. • 

The heat of the blood of grown-up people is about 100^ 
but for the first four months of an infant's life its heat is only 
95°. Doctors have found that when young puppies or kittens 
are allowed to remain in their proper place by their mother's 
side their heat is only one degree lower, but if removed their 
heat soon sinks to the temperature of the air. You must know 
that we die when the heat of our blood is only 70®. I believe 
that many a young in^EUit's life is lost by being put during the 
winter or cold weather into a smart bassinette. A baby's life 
really depends upon its being hept warm, as it has very little 
power of making its own heat ; and yet our babies in England, 
a civilised country, are doomed to wear a dress that would 
chill the blood of a strong man or woman ; a cotton frock, 
made like a ball dress with short sleeves and cut low so as to 
expose its delicate little chest. And this is the slyle in which 
a poor little girl is got up for six or seven years of her life. 
Boys are better off, because mothers put them into jackets 
and trousers at a very early age, because they like to see 
them look manly. A sensible young mother, a friend of mine, 
determined to get a dress for her infant that should leave no 
part uncovered. She found, to her surprise, when she applied 
to friends who lived in London, Paris, and Germany, that 
they could not furnish her with such an unusual garment; 
fortunately an American lady she knew in Leeds possessed 
one, and I have brought the curiosity to show you. I am 
rejoiced to think that in one country at least children are 
properly clothed. In spite of all doctors can say, old nnrses 
persuade mothers that a baby can bear more cold than a 
strong man or woman, and that it is good to harden them. 
These very children, who are to be hardened as they call it, 
are generally those who spend most of their time in hot 
nurseries. 

One cold winter's day at Scarborough I followed two 
nurses who had the care of a little girl of about six, dressed 
m a velvet bat and feathers, w\nA« iuT \w^<e^.,\A3M^ ^^Vret 
/rock that only came to her knees. Ka ^^ ^^^^'^i^a ^wf^SaD^ 



CLOTHING. 98 

I spoke to the nurses, and told them it was no wonder the 
poor little girl was cold with her legs uncovered on such 
a day. They both smiled at my want of knowledge, and said 
that the only way to make her strong was to leave her legs 
bare. A very stout mother wrapped up in for once told me 
that she always let her little children go bare-legged so that 
the oxygen conld enter the skin. 

Directly old or young feel cold, you may be sure the blood 
is not circulating properly and feeding all the organs. When 
the blood does not reach the outer skin chilblains come. 
Chilblains are only diseased flesh which may break and leave 
a sore. Cold has the effect of stupifying the brain. The 
blood when we are cold circulates so slowly that very little 
reaches the brain, and still you will find that schoolrooms 
where children are obliged to sit still for hours and use their 
brains to learn their lessons, are often very cold. No sitting- 
room ought to be colder than 65® or 60°. 

Perfect clothing ought to be light and warm. The great 
amount of heavy clothes that some women wear is said to 
cause serious complaints. Clothes have no warmth in them- 
selves ; we wear them in order to prevent the heat that is in 
our bodies from escaping. The great point then is to choose 
materials that are light, warm, and keep in the heat. It 
would be well if mothers would study and see how beautifoUy 
the bodies of animals are protected ; their bodies are covered 
with either for, feathers, or wool. All these are made of 
animal substances, as they are a part of an animal. Everyone 
should know that animal substances are non-conductors, that 
is, will allow very little heat to pass through them. I have 
brought you an eider duck, which is considered to have the 
lightest and warmest covering. It comes from the Shetland 
Isles, where the cold is very great during the winter ; though 
this bird is so large, and weighs about four pounds, it can fly 
eighty or ninety miles an hour. Let us examine its covering. 
The most delicate part, you see, the chest, is covered with 
something beautifully white and soft; it is down ; and though 
so light and soft, down has a greater power, some say^ of i^\si.. 
venting heat from leaving the body t\iQbii wkj ^NiJaRSt «o^3«ei^»5w». 
You can see what an immenBe numV^t ol l^»J2!QKt%^^^s^^***^ 



94 KIQHTEEHTH LEBSOIT. 

tiaa ; each feather contains a little air, and there is aUo an 
immense quantity of air between eaah row of feathers. 

Yon will perhaps be sarprieed to hear that very little heai 
can pass throagh air, as it is a non-condnctor. In Bnssii, 
where the winters are very serere, houses are built with 
double windows, so that there shall he a space bet^reen them 
which, of conrse, is filled with air. This wall of air prevents 
the heat that is in the room from going oat. Feriiaps jm 
hare noticed a poor little canary, that has been, left all 
night in a cold room, how lai^ its feathers hare become 
dnring the night, they spread ont so that it» head becomes 
nearly buried in them. By spreading out the feathers in this 
way room was made for more air to get in between them and 
the feathers, and the air prevented the heat from escaping. 

We oonld not very well use feathers to cover ns as clothes, 
bat we can wear animal toztnreB, snoh as far, or clo^ and 
flannel, which are ma|de from wool. 

Here is some wool that has come from a sheep's back. 
It looks and feels very light, becanse it contains a great deal 
p,„ „ of air. When this wool is woven into 

fiannel or cloth there will foe a great 
many little spaces between each thread, 
snch as yon see in this magnified piece 
of cloth. All these spaces will be filled 
with air, so that the olotb and the air 
will protect ns from the cold. 

People shonld be very carefnl to air 
Tciture of cioth~ woollcD clothes that bavo been hnng ap in 
(mBgnifled), damp rooms or passages ; the air that is 

contained in the clothes will be damp and give them o<dd. 
Woollen clothes are light and warm like fefttbers, and allow 
the perspiration to pass throngh them, which makes them very 
healthy. Loose clothes are much warmer than tight clothes, 
as yon well know if yon have ever worn a pair of tight boots, 
for yoor feet, if it is cold weather, will always be cold in 
them. A man's dress is much warmer than a womui's, not 
only because his clothes are woollen bat becanse they ore 
made bo much looBer, so that a great dtei of aix can remain 
lieiivcen them. A man who weata a BsawaA atoi^^ * A^^ 



■ 1 ■ a 9 s « 3 

■ 1 1 It c B X i? 



WOOL, COTTON, LINEN. 



95 



waistcoat, and cloth coat has three walls of air to protect his 
body. No wonder women can bear so mnch less cold than 
men when we think that very often they are clothed entirely 
in cotton or linen, and that these cold mate- no. 4. 

rials are bound close to their bodies by tight 
stays, which prevents the blood from circula- 
ting. If you could see a thread or fibre of 
wool you would find it has scales ; these scales 
give wool a rough feeling. Wool also feels 
very warm to the touch, because it sucks up 
the heat from your hand instead of letting it 
pass through it. If you cannot teU by the 
touch whether a material is made of wool or a fibre of wool, mag- 
cotton, you should unravel a bit of the mate- Jj^^^o^si- 
rial and you will soon see how hairy it is if it ^ *^« ordinary 

•^ ... scaly character of 

is made of wool. The hair of all animals is hair. 
scaly, like wool. Government inspectors expect girls to 
know the dilEerence between woollen, cotton, and linen mate- 
rials. 

AU clothes which are made from vegetable structures, such 
as linen and cotton, are very cold, because they do allow the 
hot air to pass through them, but hold a great deal of water 
or perspiration, as they are porous. They are also more closely 
woven together and therefore 




Fig. 5. 



FiQ. 6. 



allow very little air to collect 
in the spaces between the 
threads. When you get into 
bed don't you find the sheets 
very cold ? The linen or cotton 
that the sheets are made of lets 
the heat of your body pass 
through into the blankets ; but 
if you get into the blankets 
you soon find yourself very 
warm because the wool and 
the air in the blankets pre- 
vent your heat from escaping. 

Here is a drawing of a cotton Mid «» \ai«G. >2!Kt'5»^* ''^^ 
linen thread ia round and smoo^ VJaa osAte*^ >a ^^ "^ 



A fibre of linon, 
magnified 155 
times. 



A fibre of cotton, 
magnified 155 
times. 



96 EIGHTEENTH LESSON. 

twisted and has sharp edges. Linen, therefore, feels and is a 
mnch sofber material than cotton, and for that reason is nsed 
to cover wounds. 

Yon must examine the drawing of a linen thread (fig 5.), 
and compare it with the cotton one (fig. 6). The cotton 
material does not feel so smooth, but I think you will say that 
cotton feels warmer than linen. You are right; the cotton 
feels warmer to the touch, because it does not let the heat 
from your hand pass away too quickly, and it also does not 
hold as much water or perspiration. However much you 
perspire in a flannel-shirt it never sticks like a cold plaster 
to your skin, as a linen one does after violent perspiration. 
Doctors say flannel should be worn both summer and winter, 
so that when we perspire the skin may not be chilled. Fur- 
nace men and all persons who work in warm rooms ought 
to be covered with flannel. Linen cannot be worn, Erasmus 
Wilson says, in hot climates, because the perspiration it holds 
soon gets very cold and chills the body very quickly. 

I must say a few words about clothing that is made of 
fur, leather, and feathers. Nothing can be warmer than a 
far cloak. It also has the same property as wool in allowing 
the perspiration &c., to pass away. The only place where fur 
is not a safe clothing is when worn round the throat, as it 
keeps that part so warm that it becomes very tender and, the 
fur-covering cannot be done without. You will find that 
people cease to sufier from sore-throats when they merely 
wear a silk tie, which is sufficiently warm, silk being an 
animal texture. The reason it feels so smooth is because the 
fibres are round. Silk comes next in warmth to cotton ; it 
does not hold so much moisture. Professor Tyndall says 
that the hairs of a hare are the most perfect non-conductors. 
Down covers are delightfully warm and light, and healthy 
too, as they do not retain the perspiration. You must re- 
member what I said about the eider duck. 

Mackintosh is a very dangerous clothing, as no perspira- 
tion can pass through it. I have a bag here which is made 
of it. Ton see it can hold water as perfectly as if it were a 

This piece of felt is made of "hair wcl^ ^oo\ «sA >aa& ^ 



CLOTHINO« 



97 



wonderfnl power of keepinf anytliing hot op eold that it 
covers. I will tell you more about this curious material 
another time. All materials that are made of animal structure 
require to be kept very clean, because germs of disease can 
live for a long time in them, as they feed on the material ; 
for instance, moths multiply rapidly in fur and cloth. The 
human hair also requires to be kept clean for the same 
reason. Unfortunately people have an idea that a flannel 
shirt can be worn longer than a linen one, but 
this is a great mistake. The hair of our heads 
is very nearly the same substance as wool, fea- 
thers, and fur. Some people have such tender 
skins that they cannot bear flannel, or even silk 
shirts, to touch them. In these cases, which are 
raie, linen must be worn next the skin and the 
silk or woollen over that. 

You will perhaps wonder, after what I have 
said about air having the power to prevent heat 
from escaping through it, why it is necessary we 
should wear clothes at all. You must remember 
the air that surrounds our bodies is made up of little par- 
ticles of matter; these warm particles are constantly being 
carried off by the wind, and cold ones come to fill their places. 



Txa. 7. 



wm 







•i^m 




A human hair 
(magnified). 



NINETEENTH LESSON. 

LECTUBE ON BREWERS' YEAST, GERMAN YEAST, PLANTS 
CALLED FUNGI, AND FERMENTATION. 

This tumbler is filled with the brewers' yeast which your 
mothers use in making bread. It only looks, as you can see, 
like a brown froth or foam. For hundreds of years learned 
men did aJl they could with their naked eyes to find out what 
this wonderful yeast could be which kept constantly working 
and growing more instead of less. With all their looldss^^ 
they could discover nothing moi^ \^bBS!L ^ctql ^»2cl %^Ri> -^iajac^ 
magnifying glaaaeB were invemted oboroLt ^^ ^eax^ ^^ff^* 



98 NINETISENTH LBSSON. 

a Dutchman called Leeuwenhodk took one of these glasses, 
examined a small quantity of yeast, and to his great astonish, 
ment discovered that it consisted of thousands of little bags 
or cells called torulad. It was no wonder that the learned 
men who had no magnifying glasses could not see these little 
bags, as they are so smiJl that 3,000 of them will only cover 
a square inch. Soon after this discovery a Frenchman — 
Gaguiard de la Tour — made some more experiments, and 
found that each of these little bags was a plant which grew 
very, very quickly, one out of another, when put into sugar 
and water, just as soap-bubbles come one out of another in a 
chain when blown through a tobacco-pipe. If you look at 
this picture, sheet I and fig. 1, you can see a single yeast 
plant, and also a chain of them fiAstened together. The 
Frenchman Gagniard de la Tour next found out that these 
little plants not only grew very quickly in sugar and water, 
but that they changed the sugar and water into two new 
substances — carbonic acid gas and the spirit called alcohol, 
which makes people tipsy when they take beer, wine, brandy, 
or any drinks called fermented drinks. You all know, of 
course, that every plant is a living creature, and therefore 
cannot live unless it has air to breathe called oxygen gas, as 
well as food to eat. Helmholtz, another scientific man, deter- 
mined he would discover how the little yeast plant managed 
to get oxygen gas when it was buried in sugar and water. 
After watching for a long time he found the wonderful little 
creature had the power of separating the sugar, which is 
made of three things — carbon, a hard substance, and two 
gases, hydrogen and oxygen. The yeast plant breathed as 
much of the oxygen as it required, and all that was left of the 
oxygen joined again directly with the carbon and hydrogen 
gas and made two new substances — alcohol and carbonic acid 
gas — because there was not enough of the three things- 
oxygen, hydrogen, and carbon — left to form into sugar again. 
I will now tell you how the spirit, or alcohol an4 carbonio 
acid gas, which is in beer is made. The brewer first makes a 
juice called sweet wort by mashing up malt and hops together 
in a boiler, Wh-Qn this juice is ^uat Inke^o^rm it is poured 
into a big, open tab called a vat, andi ^ «ma^ o^TiXaXi^ ^ 



YEAST, 99 

brewers' yeast is poared in. The yeast grows very quickly- 
first, because it finds plenty of sugar to feed on that comes 
out of the malt ; and secondly, because the sweet wort was 
luke-warm, which is just the heat in which the plant can 
work best. Great heat, 150°, kills it. Cold does not kill, 
only stupefies and shrivels it up so that it cannot work. 
You must remember these facts. 

The yeast is very light, and therefore floats and coviers 
the top of the vat. As it rises the brewer skims it oflf and 
sells it to any one who wants any. After a certain time the 
sugar is all eaten up, so that the yeast plant gives up working, 
or fermenting as it is called. The sweet wort has then been 
changed into beer, which contains a great deal of carbonic 
acid gas and spirit. The beer after a short time is poured 
into barrels and corked up. The white foam that rises to the 
top of a glass of beer is not yeast, but little bubbles of air 
filled with carbonic acid gas. It is this gas that makes ginger- 
beer, lemonade, champagne, &c., taste sharp, and forces the 
corks out of the bottles. Carbonic acid gas is often made by 
mixing soda and tartaric acid together in water. I will now 
make some of this gas in this way, and you will see how thQ 
water in this tumbler will be filled with air bubbles of car- 
bonic acid gas, which will rise up and fall over the sides of 
the tumbler. 

Bakers who make bread without yeast mix soda and tar- 
taric acki in some way in the water with which theyip^^he 
flour into dough. The air-bubbles of carbonic acid gas flf)|*ead 
through the dough, raise it up, and make it light. This is 
called aerated or unfermented bread. Bread is called fer- 
mented when yeast is used. The yeast is mixed with luhe- 
warm water and stirred up in the flour, which contains sugar 
that the yeast feeds upon and changes into alcohol and the 
carbonic acid gas that spreads through the dough and makes 
it light. When all the sugar in the flour is eaten up the 
yeast gives up working. When dough is put into the oven 
it rises up for the first few minutes, because warmth makes 
the yeast grow, but the heat soon becomes so great that it 
kills it. You must watch the neiLt V»&DiTk%-^JK5 vusA^aRfc^^ss^ 
dough riaea and puffs up on fccEt \i«m% ^xi^» VoStf^ "^^ 



100 KINETE8VTH LESSON. 

and then remains still. The alcohol or spirit is sent out of 
the dough bj the heat into the oven. 

German yeast is the same as brewers* yeast, only it has 
been dried. Thongh it is called German yeast it is made at 
Botterdam, a town in Holland, in the following way. The 
yeast is spread with a brush over a wooden board. When 
this layer is dry another layer is placed over the top of it 
until a thick cake is formed. If kept in a very cool, dry 

. place, it is said that German yeast will keep for two years. 
It is very difficult to get good German yeast in the summer 
time, because the great heat kills it during the voyage, and 
then it becomes bad like any other dead and rotten v^etable. 
Cooks use a great deal more German yeast in the sammer, 
because it often happens that only half of the yeast they put 
into the flour is living; the dead part of course gives the 
bread a disagreeable taste. I should think if fresh Overman 
yeast were put in a very clean jar surrounded by ice it could 
be preserved for some time during the summer, as cold sta- 
pefles the plant and prevents it from working. Yeast can be 
kept for a short time in a thick syrup of sugar, but we found 
it was necessary to take a large jar, because the yeast grew 
so quickly that it would soon have come out of the top or 
have burst the jar had it been corked up. 

The air we breathe is full of the yeast plant. We know 
this to be a fact by the way wine is made. When all the 
juice has been squeezed out of the grapes it is put into a big 
open vat or tub, such as brewers use in making beer. The 
grape juice soon begins to ferment and contain a greal deal 
of spirit and carbonic acid gas, though no yeast or anything 
else has been put in. The yeast falls into it from the air, as 
the vat is open. The juice in hot countries is just the heat 
the plant likes, and contains a great deal of sugar. 

Plants like the yeast plant are called fungi, and it is said 
there are no less than 150,000 different kinds. The largest 
are mushrooms, which we eat and pickle. Thousands that 
float in the air are much smaller than even the yeast plants ; 
24,000 will only cover a square inch 1 They float about in 
the air when it becomes damp, and contains the kind of food 

ihejr like. Some live in streama, oftieTa m\>«i^^w^\Kt^TDSSk.^ 



FUNGI. 101 

or foods of any kind, and make them ferment, and toni 
sour, mouldy, or patrid. Professor Tyndall and many other 
learned men say that if we could prevent the air we hreathe 
from getting into our meat or foods they would never go bad, 
as cooks say, or have an unpleasant smell, only crumble away 
in time, like a mummy that has been wrapped up so well that 
no air could get to the flesh. Preserved meats keep as long 
as the tin cover is iastened down, but directly it is opened the 
meat becomes unwholesome and putrid. 

You would not think that these plants could get through 
&^ egg-shell, but they do. An egg-shell is covered with 
thousands of tiny holes, through which the fresh air enters 
for the little chicken to breathe. Well, through these holes 
the fungi send some long threads, and soon change the good 
egg into a rotten one filled with bad gases, which are light. 
A bad egg will for this reason float if put into water, and a 
good egg will sink to the bottom. If you want to keep eggs 
for some months in the winter you must either cover over the 
shell with grease, so that nothing can enter the holes, or put 
them into lime-water. A piece of quick lime is used for this 
purpose. f; 

Preserves often ferment and sometimes burst the bottles, 
owing to the carbonic acid gas made by the fungi that were 
in the air in the bottles when the preserves were poured in. 
Our bottled fruit keeps perfectly, because our cook takes 
great care to use very hot, clean, dry bottles, fills them quite 
to the top, and covers them instantly with a bladder, or pours 
hot grease over the top or oil. We only use one pound of 
sugar to three pounds of fruit, and boil them for twenty 
minutes. Of course no preserves will keep unless the fruit is 
freshly gathered in dry weather. 

Fungi cannot grow unless they have some water or mois- 
ture. Dry pure air shrivels them up. Preserves grow 
mouldy because they are put in a cupboard through which 
no dry air can pass. Bread grows mouldy if shut up in a 
damp pantry or in a jar through which air cannot pass. 
There is a great deal of moisture in bread, which 6.ha^^VaRk 
able to pass out through a lid mtti \io\b%^ «hA VXi^ XstRft^-^ 
should be kept very clean and dry, axA^o^ ^02a^gk»j«&.\ ^^^o*^ 



»>- 



102 NINETEENTH LESSON. 

air can get through the pot and cany away the damp thai 
rises from the hread. Damp walls are soon covered with the 
same kind of mould made by fungi. 

How Tery different are these small invisible plants from 
the plants we can see, which bear green leaves and flowers 
that delight our eyes, purify the air in our houses, and live 
upon food they find in the earth, air, and water ; while fongi 
feed on the foods we eat, called organic foods, and make them 
Unwholesome and poisonous. It is a comfort to know that if 
our houses are very clean, have no dirty comers, and the 
windows are kept open and bright, so that plenty of sunshine 
and fresh air can enter, we shall not be troubled with fungi, 
because fresh, dry air contains a great deal of oxygen gas, 
and oxygen gas seems to kill or shrivel them up. If cooks 
xmderstood the nature of these plants, they woiQd take care 
to have very clean pans, leave no food in them, and make 
their larders and kitchens very sweet. Housemaids would 
also take care to remove all dust from the furniture, &o., and 
constantly shake the dusters out of the window, as dust is a 
favourite place for fungi. Professor Tyndall not long ago 
proved by a beautiful experiment that the air in crowded, 
unventilated rooms was full of organic matter and living 
things which feed on it. 



INDEX 



••o^ 



Abb 

AEEATED bread, 99 
Air, a non-conductor of heat, 
94, 97 

— germs infesting the. See Germs. 

— presence of the yeast plant in, 
100 

— pure, a reqitisite for the kitchen, 5 
Albumen, nutritive qualities of, 

24, 31 

— indigestibility of, 31, 67, 66 

— effect of heat on, 33, 34, 68 
Alcohol, how produced, 98 
America, clothing of children in, 

92 
Animal foods, 30 

— constituents of, 61 

— way of boiling so as to keep all 
the juices in, 76 

Arrowroot, 86 



BAKERS, dishonest use of the oven 
by, 28 
Baking of bread, 28 

— of pastry, 48 
Barley-water, directions for making, 

62 

Basting, 38 

Batter pudding without eggs, re- 
ceipt for, 68 

Beef, economical character of, as 
food, 71 

— directions for roasting, 37 
Beefsteak, directions for cooking, 

34, 66 
Beef-tea, * strongest,' directions for 
making, 60 

— 'whole,* directions for making, 
64,67 

Blood, action of, in /erers, 61 



csi 

Blood, purity of, derived from vege- 
table foods, 42, 61 

— temperature of, 92 

' Body- warmers,' 41, 64, 76 
Boiling, art of, 77 

— effects of, on food, 81, 70 
Bones, boiling of, for soup, 71 
Bottle, feeding, 16 

Brass utensils, danger of using, 3 
Bread, nutritive value of, 42 

— directions for baking, 28 

— proper way of keeping, 80, 101 

— aerated or unfermonted, 99 

— cakes, receipt for, 26 
' Brig,' explanation of, 4 

Broth, sheep's head, receipt for, 82 
Buns, currant, seed, and rock, re- 
ceipts for, 30 

— directions for making, 28 
Butyric acid, 66 



CABBAGE, how to wash and cook, 
38 

— directions for pickling, 79 
Caf^-au-lait, the French, 84, 90 
Caffeine, 83 
Cagniard de la Tour, experimenta 

on the yeast plant made by, 98 
Cakes, bread, receipt for, 26 
Carbon, 6 
Carbonic acid gas, 6, 98, 99 

— produced by yeast, 23 

— artificial production of, 99 
Carrot soup, 72 
Cassava meal, 86 
' Casual Ward,' the picture so eall«l^ 

89 



106 



INDEX. 



XIL 

Milk, the kind of, suitable for chil- 
dren, 86 

— gruel, receipt for, 63, 64 

— preserved, 86 

— jugs, particular directions for 
washing, 16 

Minerals, relative amount of, in 
animal and vegetable foods, 51 

Mint, dried, 79 

Mushrooms, 100 

Mutton, greater digestibility of, than 
beef, 71 

— chop, how to cook, 34, 56 

— minced, receipt for, 68 



VrURSE, duties of the, 62 
-ll Nursery, diet for the, 91 



OATMEAL porridge, directions 
for making, 87, 88 
Onion sauce, receipt for, 47, 60 
Onions, receipt for pickling, 79, 81 
Osmazome, 37, 60, 84 
Oswego corn-flour, 86 
Oven, explanation of the, 7 

— use of the damper in, 8 

— how to clean the flues in, 8 

— degree of heat required in, for 
bread and pastry baking, 27, 49 

— dishonest use of the, 28 
Oxygen gas, 5, 16, 38, 85, 102 

PAESLEY, dried, 79 

X Pasties, Cornish, receipts for, 
63,55 

Pastry, light, directions for making 
and baking, 48 

Peas, nutritive value of, 76 

Pea soup, directions for making, 76, 
78 

Perspiration, removal ofi by woollen 
clothing, 94 

Phosphorus, nutritive properties of, 
24 

Pickled cabbage, directions for mak- 
ing, 79 

— onions, receipt for, 79, 81 
Pie, potato, 53 

Poaching eggBy 38 
' Pork, directions for roasting, 40 
— diMeaae occasioned by eating, 49 



BIO 

Porridge, oatmeal* directions tat 

making, 87, 88 
Potau-feu, the French, 73 
Potash in fruits and vegetables, 52, 

54 
Potato pie, 53 

— surprise, directions for making, 
65,68 

— starch, 86 

Potatoes, greater digestibility of 
baked than boiled, 44 

— necessity of eating "with salt 
meat, 86 

— how to wash and cook, 34 
bake, 44 

— mashed, receipt for, 58, 59 
Poultry, how to tell old from young, 

77 

Preserve (or treacle) roly-poly, re- 
ceipt for, 73, 75 

Preserves, prevention of fermenta* 
tion in, 101 

Prisons, faults of cooking in, 72 

Pudding, directions for boiling a, 44 

— baked, the great secret of making, 
73 

— baked fruit, receipt for, 74, 76 

— baked rice, receipt for, 67, 58 

— batter, without eggs, receipt for, 
68 

— currant, receipt for, 43, 46 

— hasty, receipt for, 78 

— savoury, receipt for, 47, 60 

— suet, with either currants or 
raisins, receipt for, 43, 46 

— treacle, 73 

— Yorkshire, receipt for, 39 

— steaming, 74 

— cloth, proper way of washing, 45 



QUICKSILVER, expansion of, by 
heat, 27 



T) ABBITS, directions for boiling, 

Kecon, explanation of, 3 
Bevalenta arabica, 83 
Bice, moulds of, 83 
— p\i.d.d\n%t b&ked, receipt fo^, 67, 
6ft 



INDEX. 



107 



Bickets due to faulty nutrition, 86 
Boasting, the most wholesome way 

of cooking meat, 38 
— time required for, 36, 50 
Boly-poly, treacle, receipt for, 78» 

76 



SAGE, dried, 79 
Sago, 86 
Sailors, former sufferings of, frmu 

scurvy, 51 
dalad sauce, receipt for, 52 
Salmon, 42 

Salt, its destructive effects on grubs, 
slugs, &c., 38, 53 

— meat, deficient nourishing power 
of, 86 

Sand, Calais, 14 
Sandwiches, egg, 36 

— receipt for, 36 

Sauce, onion, receipt for, 47, 50 

— salad, receipt for, 62 
Saucepans, brass and copper, danger 

of using, 3 

— enamelled and tinned, objections 
against, 2 

— iron, advantages of, 2 

— method of cleaning, 18 

— proper way of stowing, 2 
Schools, diet for children in, 90 
Scurvy, former sufferings of sailors 

from, 61 

— cause of, 85 

Semolina, mould of, directions for 

making, 83, 87 
Sheep's head, directions for boiling, 

78 
Sick, food for the, 59-68, 71 
Silk, properties of, as a clothing 

material, 96 
Simmering, 32 
Sink, how to dean, 1 9 
Sitting-room, temperatiire of, 93 
Skin, diseases of, due to stan'ation, 

89 
Soap, impropriety of cleaning cook- 
ing utensils with, 14 
Soda, UHc of, in cleaning cooking 

utensils, 14 
Soot, heat-retarding properties of, 

18 
Soup, boiling injxaiona to, 70 



TBI 

Soup, carrot, 72 

— meat, receipt for, 76 

— pea, directions for making, 76, 
78 

— vegetable, directions for making, 
72, 76 

Starch, nutritive qualities of, 24, 42 

— presence of in vegetables the 
cause of their swelling when 
cooked, 39 

— list of substances composed of^ 
86 

Starvation, Dr. Chambers's descrip- 
tion of, 89 
Stock, uses of, 18, 69 

— preparation of, 70 

Stomach, acid in the, caused by eat- 
ing fat, 66 
Stuffing for baked haddock, 43 
Suet, nutritive value of, 42 

— pudding with either currants or 
raisins, receipt for, 43, 46 

— dumplings, directions for making, 
78, 82 

Sugar, nutritive value of, 42 

— use of, in preserving milk, 85 
Swill-tubs, 19, 44 



TAPEWOBM in children from 
eating raw or unwashed greens, 
38 
Tapioca, 86 
Tea, nutritive value of, as compared 

with cocoa, 83 
Teacakes, how to make, 28 

— receipt for, 30 
Tea-things, how to wash, 1 6 
Theobromine, 83 

Thermometer, use of, in bread bak- 
ing, 27 

— in frying, 56 

Throat, sore, obviated by wearing a 

silk neck-tie, 96 
Thyme, dried, 79 
Tin, danger of, as a coating for 

utensils, 3, 18 
Toast, dry, receipt for, 68 
Toruls of yeast, 98 
' Tous-les-mois, 86 



\ 



108 



INDEX, 



TBU 



Trussing, ^ultry, 77 
Tumover, jam, oirectionB for mak- 
ing, 48 



UTENSILS, kitchen, lists of, 12 
-— cost of, 12, 81 

— best materials for, 2, 3 

— method of cleaning, 14, 20 



VEAL cutlets, how to fry, 66 
Vegetable foods, explanation 
of, 25, 31 

— constituents of, 39, 51 
Vegetable soup, directions for 

making, 72, 75 
Vegetables, need of, for the preser- 
vation of health, 52 

— why considered indigestible foods 
in England, 38 

— how to tell stale from fresh, 63 

— French way of cleaning, 63 

— reason why they swell when 
cooked, 39 

Ventilation, necessity of, in the 

kitchen, 5 
Verdigris, 3, 18 



W 



ATEB, presence of, in fbod, 
the cauie of deoompoeitioD, 

86 
Weighing by measure, 26 
Welsh 'fasting-girl,' the, 88 
Wine, fermentation of, 100 
Women, clothing of, 95 
Wool, utility of, as a elothing 

material, 94 
Working people, most suitable food 

for. 41 
— unhealthy appearance of, dna 

to abstention from fruit and 

vegetables, 52 
Worm, round, produced by eating 

lettuce unwashed, 53 
Wort, sweet, of beer, 98 



YEAST, nature and properties of, 
23, 97 

— proportion in which to be vaed, 
25 

— preservation of in summer, S4, 
100 

— torulae of, 98 

— manufacture of, 100 
Yorkshire pudding, receipt for, 39, 

41 



L05D09 : PRINTRD BT 
SPOTTI8WOODB A5D CO., ^SXVT-WtWtWt W^TSkMk 



Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on Hbrary shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http : //books . google . com/| 



) 




\ITI 



FOOD AND HOME COOKEEY 




^wtV'V 



ov^ 






I i I 



IiOKDON X PBZHTXD BT 

OPOTTIBWOODB ASD CO., VXW-STftUST SQUABS 

ASD PAELXAHBNT 8TBMBS> 



-y" 1 -—•■■r ' 



THE NEW YORK 

PUBLIC LIBRARY 
Aanro^i lenox anp 

TILDEN FOUNDATiONt, 



A 



"_" 








hI^^^^^I 




ll 


mm^m 


1 




^^"''^^^^^^^^^^"V^^MV^^^^ 




Jd-^ 


k — J, 







/ / 



FOOD 



AND 



HOME OOOKEBY 



A OOUBBE OP IHSTRITCTION IN PRACTICAL COOKERY 

AJTD CLEANING, POR CHILDREN IN ELEMENTARY 

SCHOOLS, AS POLLOWED IN THE SCHOOLS 

OP THE LEEDS SCHOOL BOARD 



• BY 

CATHERINE M. ^UCKTON 

MSMBBB OF THB LSBD8 SCHOOL BOARD : AUTHOR OP ' HEALTH IN THB HOUSB \ 



^^ 



THIRD EDITION 



LONDON 

liONGMANS, GREEN, AND CO. 

1879 

All right* reserved 



I THE NEW YORK 

PUBLIC LIBRARY 

104775 

A8T0R, LENOX AND 
TILDEN FOUNDATIONS. 
1899, 



PEEFACE. 



Whbn pnblic money is used, an account should be rendered 
to the public of how it is spent. I have therefore thought 
it well to publish the following Scheme of Cookery, which, 
as the only lady member of the Leeds School Board, I have 
drawn up on behalf of my colleagues and myself. The aim 
of this Scheme was to induce a love of cleanliness, personal 
neatness, and order ; fco give practical instruction ; and to offer 
every aid to the girls and their parents to practise the les- 
sons thus taught them, in their own homes. In order to 
accomplish this, printed receipts easy to read were presented 
to the girls, to prevent their taking home illegible ones written 
down during the delivery of the lesson, when their attention 
ought to be given to observing all that the cook is doing. 
It has been found that the interest of the parents is much 
aroused by their being able to purchase at cost price small 
portions of the provisions which their children have helped 
to prepare. 

The food collection, diagrams, <fec., make the instruction 
easy and popular. Printed questions, answered at home, draw 
attention to the most important facts in the lesson, and are 
read aloud at the commencement of the lesson. Each girl 
is to provide herself with a writing-book, into which the 



i 



VI PRBPAOB. 

teacher gmns both, the printed receipts and the questions. 
The teacher also requests the pupil to give an account of any 
attempt at home cookery made during the intervening fort- 
night. This book may prove of great value through life, and 
serve as a testimonial for those girls who desire to enter 
domestic service. The lessons are given fortnightly, and last 
for one hour and a half, the course consisting of seventeen 
lessons, extending over one year. As forty hours are allowed 
during the year by the Code for * Lessons on Food and its 
Preparation,' the cook may divide any of the seventeen lec- 
tures that she finds too long, and repeat twice those that are 
difficult. Girls attending School Board classes of cookery may 
havQ the great advantage of being able to attend them for 
two or three years. Lessons in cooking ought to follow in- 
struction in the ' Laws of Health,' information on the struc- 
ture of the human body, and the kinds of food necessary to 
preserve it in health. I cannot but hope that such instruc- 
tion as I gave to our boys and girls during play hours^ may 
ere long be systematically taught by a paid teacher in our 
Board Schools ; in which case the one set of models and com- 
plete apparatus, used by me when giving the lectures in 
* Health in the House,' would be sufficient. Our experience 
during the last ten months shows that the best teacher of 
cookery is an intelligent person who has been trained to cook, 
who thoroughly understands a kitchen-maid's work, and is 
ready to impart information drawn up for her, as in the fol- 
lowing lessons. 

I beg to draw the attention of my readers to the &ct 
that, though in Leeds eight cookery centres will soon be pro- 
vided, in no case is any special building to be erected, nor is 
any room expressly set apart for the purpose. The instruc- 
tion is given once a fortnight in a class-room. 

* HsdUh in the House, Longmans, Q-reen, & Oo. 



PBBPACB. Vll 

On page 11 a full statement is famished of the cost in- 
curred by the fitting np of each centre. It is not, I think, 
much to be regretted that we have no special rooms or 
kitchens, because the great care necessary to preserve cleanli- 
ness, neatness, and order in so small a space will teach lessons 
that must be learnt if a working-man's home, which, alas, 
sometimes consists of only one room, is to be kept in order 
and comfortable. It must be remembered that Board Schools 
are happily compelled to receive the poorest of the popula- . 
tion, the class above all others that need instruction and 
help. 

A movable gas-stove is used in our Board Schools, so 
placed that the cook can stand behind it, and face her large 
class ; but in a village cooking school, where gas is not to be 
had, an open kitchen-range would do, provided it were fitted 
up with a recon and the other conveniences provided by the 
gas-stove. 

Ventilation being so very important where gas is used, 
every care has been taken in our Leeds schools to secure a 
free circulation of air through the cupboards in which the 
utensils and stove are locked up. The class-room is lofty, 
well ventilated, has an open fireplace, and a window left open 
at the top. As the gas is burnt on the bunsen burner prin- 
ciple, the combustion is perfect. During the lesson, which 
only lasts for one hour and a half, the stove is placed near 
the open grate. Whenever a gas-stove is used in a living- 
room, a flue ought to be attached to the large hole at the 
back of the oven, and carried into the chinmey. Every one 
should be made to understand how one gas-light uses as much 
£resh air as a man requires. I have lately heard of a large 
cooking-house in the west end of London, where between 
sixty and eighty gas-burners were alight without any flue to 
carry ofl* the bad air ! No wonder the poor cook complained of 



VUl PREFACE. 

being giddy and ready to fall down, and looked pale and ill. 
Her mistress said she could not think what was the matter 
with her. 

In conclusion, I have to o£fer my warmest thanks to Dr. 
Chambers for the information and tables I found in his most 
valuable book on ' Diet in Health and Disease,' of which, by 
his permission, I have made very liberal use. 

The lectures on Clothing and Diet, Yeast and Ferment- 
ation, added at the end, do not belong to the course of seven- 
teen lectures^ but contain information bearing on Foods and 
Cookery. 

Catherine M. Bugeton. 

Leeds. 



TABLE OF CONTENTS 



OB 



An Abstiuct of Practical Lbssons to bb orrwx during Onb YbaVs 

COTTBSB of CoOXBBT INSTRUCTION IN THE LbEDS BoARD SCHOOLS. 



Lesson 



2 
3 



4 
5 
6 

7 

8 

9 

10 

11 
12 



Subjects of each Lesson 



1 



Kitchen arrangements and 
ntensils suitable for a 
cottage. Requisites in a 
kitchen-maid or cock. Di- 
rections how to lay and 
light a fire. Effect of 
good and bad air. Explain 
the use of a damper, and 
how oven flues should be 
cleaned .... 

Cleaning wooden utensils, 
dinner and tea service, 
glass, mincing machine 

Cleaning tin and iron uten- 
sils, knives and forks, cop- 
per, brass, and metal ware, 
sink 

Bread making, yeast, and 
weighing. 

Bread baking, buns, teacakes, 
currant loaf. 

Heat to be used in cooking . 



Boasting. Best method of 

beating an egg. 
Foods called ' Body-warmers * 

and * Flesh-formers.' 

Pastry, clarifying dripping . 



Foods, called * Mineral Foods ' 

Frying 

Cookery for sick people, who 

are not allowed to take 

solid foods. 




Foods to be cooked at each Lesson 



Page 



Bread, each girl making a 

small loaf 
Buns, teacakes, currant loaf. 

Eggs boiled and poached, 
grill mutton chop, boil po- 
tatoes, sandwich . . 

Roast beef, Yorkshire pud- 
ding, green vegetables 

Baked haddock, !»uet, raisin 
or currant pudding, baked 
potatoes .... 

Boiled tripe and onions, or 
roast pork and savoury 
pudding, jam pasties 

Cornish pasties, scattered 
rice 

Plaice, baked rice pudding . 

Beef tea, gruel, barley-water, 
lemonade, milk. 



U 



17 

21 

26 



3(» 
86 

41 

46 

61 
66 

69 



a 



CONTENTS. 
Table op Contbnts — canHnued, 



Leaaon 


SabjectB of each LesBon 


Foods to liie cooked at each Leaaon 


Page' 


18 


Cookery for invalidfl, recover- 


Whole beef tea, with eggs, 


1 




ing firom illness, allowed to 


potato surprise, boiled cus- 


1 
1 




taiie solid foods. 


tard, batter pudding. 


64 


U 


Soup and stock . 


Meat soup and soup without 


1 






meat .... 


69 


15 


Feasoup, cleaning and trass- 


Feasoup, boiled rabbit and 


1 




ing poultry. This lesson is 


onion sauce, or a joint of 




* 


also to teach the proper 


meat, hasty pudding, pluck 






method by which meat 


and truss a fowl 


76 




should be boiled, so that 






• 


all the juices can be kept 
in the meat. 




1 

1 


16 


Sheep's-head broth and pick- 


SheepVhead and. dumplings, 


1 




ling. 


pickled cabbage and onions 


78 


17 


Foods, salted meat, &c Dry- 


Macaroni and cheese, pars- 






ing herbs. 


ley, mint, thyme, marjo- 








ram, sage, COCOA, coffee, 


r 






porridge • • • . 


82 


18 


Lecture on diet, warmth and 








clothin&r .... 




88 


19 


Lecture on brewers* yeast, 
German yeast, plants 




^#^* 




called Fungi, and fermen- 


• 




■ 


tation .... 




97 


^r^m^ «r V ^^ ^"^^ V V V V 




^^ w 



lil'oTBS. — No girl can gain a Govemment Grant in an Elementary School 
for any specific subject unless she is also examined in Domestic Eoonomy, 
which includes a knowledge of foods and their preparation. The Code 
allows 40 school hoiuns to be devoted during the year to acquiring the 
knowledge relating to foods and their preparation when girls have passed 
the fourth standaid. In order to gain a practical knowledge of cooking, 
the eame lesson should be repeated two or three times. If one hour and a 
half be devoted (once a fortnight during the year) to each lesson, some 
of the 17 lessons described above might be repeated twice. 



L 



ILLUSTRATIONS. 

FIG. PAOB 

CooxEBT Gttfboabd AMD ITS CONTENTS. (Ffom Photograph) Frontispiece. 
Kitchen Gbatb and Oybn, 'with Flubs and Damper . to face 7 

CoOXHSr CUFBOABD, BEING OPENED TO SHOW HOW THREE TaBLBB 

ABB MADE BT THE LOWBB DOOBS .... tO fOCC 21 

CooxEBY Lesson. Girls at wobx. {From Photograph) . „ 36 

1. Thb Yeast Plant 28 

2. Stand, with component parts of 1 lb. of Flour . . .24 

3. Textubb of Cloth 04 

4. A FiBBE OF Wool 95 

5. A FiBBE OF Linen 95 

6. A Fibre of Cotton 95 

7. A HtTMAN Haib 97 



FOOD AND HOME COOKERY. 



FIRST LESSON. 

KITCHBN ABBANOEHEirrS FOB A COTTAOB — BBQUISITE8 IN A KITCHBK MAID 
OR COOK — DIBBCnONS ABOUT HOW TO LAT AND UOHT A FIBK, AND 
GLBAN THB OBATE AND OVEN FLT7E8. 

These cooking lessons which you are going to attend will, I 
hope, not only teach yon how to cook, bnt how you may take 
care of yonr homes, give yonr fe.ther, brothers and sisters, 
comfortable meals, and nurse your mother or any member of 
your family when sick. I think you will be surprised to see 
how many things we manage to keep in that comer of the 
room, where the cupboard stands. As this room is used every 
day as a class-room, except when it is given up to us for our 
cooking lessons, we are obliged to make the most of every 
little bit of space, be very clean, and have a place for every- 
thing, and keep everything in its place, so that all shall be 
neat when the children come next day. 

We manage, you see, just as a good mother does who has 
only one room for cooking and living in. I will now open 
the cupboard doors and point out where everything is kept, 
so that you may either fetch them out or put them by. You 
will find that every utensil is just what you use at home, and 
the cheapest that could be bought good in the market. A 
cupboard like this would be very useful in a cottage, and 
very ornamental, because everything, even a spoon or cup, 
however common, looks pretty when it is clean and of a good, 
useful shape. We are obliged to have doors to lock up our 

B 



2 FIRST LESSON. 

tbingg, so that tbey may be all rigbt wben we come again. 
Doors would not be necessary in your bonses. If you look 
on tbis large upper sbelf you will see a row of brown jars, on 
wbicb wbite pieces of paper bave been pasted witb tbe names 
written of wbat eacb jar contains. I bougbt tbem just large 
enougb to bold wbat we sball use in a.montb. Flour, oat- 
meal, rice, &c., ougbt not to be kept too long, or mites will 
grow in tbem. Tbe jars bare lids to keep out dust as well as 
mites. Soap is better for keeping, so I bave cut some np 
into pieces, and put tbem in tbat box wbicb stands on tbe 
top of tbe sbelf, lest it sbould cause tbe cupboard to bave an 
unpleasant smell. I cannot now name all tbe utensils and 
fooda ; in time you will know tbem all. A list of everytbing 
is written on ibis piece of paper, wbicb is pasted on the 
inside of tbe door. Meat, butter, milk ougbt not to be kept 
in sucb a place as tbis; tbey sbould stand in a cool place, 
tbrougb wbicb a good draugbt of fresb air is constantly 
passing. Meat, if bougbt very fresb, and of tbe best qualitij^ 
can be kept several days in sucb a larder, even in tbe sum- 
mer, if it is wasbed well directly tbe butcber brings it, wiped 
very dry, and bung up in tbe draugbt; it sbould also be 
wiped carefully every day witb a clean clotb. Gbeen vege- 
tables and potatoes sbould lie on a clean dry stone floor, 
wbere frost cannot come to kill tbem. You must examine 
tbe little sink and wooden rack, as it is called, just above it, 
wbere we put tbe plates to dry witbout wiping tbem, so tbat 
tbey may bave a brigbt polisb. Wben our saucepans are 
clean and very dry, we put tbem, witbout tbeir lids, on to 
tbese wooden rails, witb tbeir faces down, so tbat fresh air 
can get into tbem and keep tbem sweet. Cooks often put 
tbeir saucepans down on a flat sbelf, so tbat no air can 
enter ; tbe cleanest saucepan in wbicb food bas been cooked 
smells fusty if left witb its lid on or placed in tbe way I bave 
just mentioned. 

Nearly all tbe saucepans we use are iron, witbout any 
paint on tbe outside or tinning inside. Tbese pans are much 
cbeaper than any otber kind, because tbey are so strong tbat 
tbey will last for a great many years, and if scrubbed with 
Calais sand look better every year because tbey become quite 



SAUCEPANS. 3 

poHslied. It is tnie that if a careless cook puts them by- 
damp, the iron rast does not look nice, but it is not in the least 
onwholesome, the worst thing it can do is to make potatoes 
boiled withont their skins look dark. An excellent cook, who 
had lived a great many years in a honse where every kind of 
pan was kept, told me her favourite pans were two ii*on oaes. 
A fVench cook in Paris, who had -a kitchen Ml of bright 
copper pans, told me the same thing. Saucepans that are 
generally used are tinned inside ; now these pans are light 
and soon wear ont, and the tinning often contains lead 
which poisons any food allowed to stand and get cold in 
them. Should the cook only half fill one of these pans and 
leave it on the fire to boil, the tin comes ofE the sides and mns 
down to the bottom in lumps. After a time it all comes off, 
and the pan is then used untinned if the person is poor. 
Enamelled pans that look as if they were lined with white 
china, though they appear so clean, may contain substances 
that, like lead, poison the food if allowed to grow cold in them. 
For this reason large manufacturers, like Messrs. Kenrick, 
of Birmingham, and others, have their pans examined by a 
good chemist, who is then able to tell the public that there 
is nothing poisonous in their enamel. Brass and copper 
pans, which last for generations, are dangerous because a 
poison called verdigris forms when the food in them grows 
cold. Do you not think it is wisest to buy iron saucepans, 
which are the cheapest, can poison no one, and last for a great 
many years ? Every kind of pan is safe when used by a good 
clean cook, but unfortunately cooks are often ignorant and 
not clean. Nearly all our iron pans have bright lids. Some 
are to have long handles, and some have lips with round 
handles, so that the contents can be easily poured out and 
the pan hung on a recon.^ A pan should never be put down 
fiat on to a fire when it contains food. In country villages 
the cottage fireplaces generally have a recon. I went into 
one near Scarborough, and there I found both a recon and 

> A recon is a hook which can be raised or lowered by putting it into 
the holes in a piece of iron that is attached to a swinging bar fastened to 
the side of the fireplace. A recon sometimes only consists of a swinging 
'bait on which hang some large and smaller hooks. 

b2 



i 



4 FIRST LESSON. 

an iron pan,^ and every fireplace ought to have one, or a 
brig* upon which a pan can rest. 

Though we are obliged to cook by a gas stoye, it is made 
80 that we can roast meat in front of the fire as you do at 
home ; it has an oven like yours to bake in, a recon, and an 
iron brig. If coals are used, nothing, I think, is so good as 
our open fireplaces. Some say that they also bum less coals 
than closed grates called kitcheners. 

I will now pull the gas-stove out of the cupboard. As it is 
placed^ on rollers it comes out very easily ; we will put it so 
that I can easily get behind it if necessary and face you all. 
Here are all the things I said our stove possessed, recon, brig, 
and oven. You can cook, as I have just said, quite as well 
by your own fires as by this large stove. Now that I have 
shown you our little kitchen, I should like to tell you how I 
think a little kitchen-maid or cook may manage to be clean 
and tidy all day long, though she has to light fires, sweep 
and clean the floors, and do other dirty work. You cannot 
be good cooks unless you are very clean and tidy. She 
should get up early, wash herself thoroughly, plait her hair 
neatly, and put it up so very firmly that it will remain tidy 
the whole day. Do not use coloured ribbons, as they soon 
get dirty; wear good thick shoes, an apron with a bib, and a 
dress with sleeves that can be made short; do not have the 
skirt long. While cleaning the fires or sweeping, cover the 
hair with a clean duster, or, better still, a cotton hood. A per- 
son who does all this will be well repaid for her trouble, because 
by simply washing her hands, when they are dirty, she will 
look nice and respectable to the end of the day. You must 
always come to these lessons with neat hair and clean hands. 
You will always find towels and soap ready where you hang 
your cloaks. Remember a cook's nails must also be very 
clean ; by pressing the nails into the soap, and then taking 
the soap out by a nail on the other hand, you can keep your 
hands clean without a brush. Never forget to push the skin 

> This iron pan was bought of Messrs. Waters andWoodhonae, Scar 
borough. 

* A brig consists of two or three iron bars, sometimes fastened by 
hinges to the side of the grate, or free, so that they can be placed acrotf 
the fire when required. 



CLEAKLIKESS. 5 

down gently at the bottom of the n^s with the towel every 
morning, and then yon will never suffer from those sore little 
bits of skin called ' stepmother's blessings ; ' our nails grow a 
little every day, and if the skin grows fast to them the nail 
tears the skin in trying to get free and grow. Directly your 
hands begin to chap, buy a small bottle of glycerine, rub 
some of it over your hands just before you go tabed, and 
then put some flour over them. In the morning you will 
find that they feel smooth and comfortable. You must do 
this before your hands get sore. 

A cook and her kitchen may be very clean, but still the 
food she cooks will not be clean and wholesome unless the 
air that fills the kitchen is also very pure and clean. The air 
that we breathe, and that fills the room, enters all the food 
that is in the room ; if the fresh air outside cannot get in, the 
room soon becomes filled with the poisonous air that comes 
out of our mouths every instant, called ca/rhonic add gas. 
This bottle is filled with this gas. If any living animal or 
human being could be put into that air, they would instantly 
die, and a lighted candle would go out directly. We cannot 
live in air where a candle will not bum. 

[Kere show how a hurnmg candle goes ouf] 

Our bodies are wearing out every instant ; the parts that 
-wear out and die pass out of our mouths and through our 
skin in perspiration. 

The bad air when it comes out of our mouths is hot, and 
is so light that it goes up to the top of the room, like the 
steam that comes out of the spout of a tea-kettle. Look at the 
steam coming out of that kettle, and watch if it does not go 
up. Now if you want to make bad air go out of the room, 
you must open the top of the window and out it will fiy ; it is 
better not to open the bottom of the window until you leave 
the room, because the cold wind that would come in might 
give you cold. Fortunately we take fresh air into our mouths 
every instant, which gives us health and makes our blood pure 
and warm. This wonderful gas that is in fresh air which 
makes us warm is called osM/g&n gas. Here is a little bottle 
fiUed with oxygen gas, and ihough it has no taste nor smell, 
it will make a tiny spark of heat burst into a hot flame of 



b FIRST LESSON. 

fire. If we cannot get this air every instant, we first faint, 
and then we die and become as cold as marble. You see this 
piece of black stuff which looks like coal ; it is called carbon. 
I will make a comer of this piece of carbon red hot by holding 
it in the flame of this candle. Now 1 will put this tiny spark 
of heat into this bottle of oxygen gas. Just see how the tiny 
spark has burst into a bright flame and made the bottle very 
hot. The carbon and oxygen which were in the bottle joined 
together and made the Ught and heat. There is a great 
deal of carbon in coal, wood, paper, and everything that will 
burn. The reason we put wood and paper under the coal is 
because they contain carbon and burn much more quickly 
than coal, and set fire to the coal ; a fire will not bum well in 
a room unless it is full of fresh air, and the paper and wood 
will not burn unless a great deal of oxygen gas can get into 
the grate between the paper, wood, and coal. I will lay a 
.fire with these pieces of paper, wood, and coal in this grate, so 
that no air can get between them, and then you will see that 
I shall not be able to make even the wood and paper bum. 

The grate was used yesterday, and is full of cinders and 
ashes. I will not take them out, but do everything as an igno- 
rant person would do who was going to lay a fire ; put the 
pieces of paper flat on the top of them, and then the pieces of 
wood flat on the paper, and the coal flat over them on the 
top. Now we will put a light to the paper ; it will only bum on 
the outside edge, but it will not burn under the wood and set 
fire to it. I might try all day, and for ever, but neither the 
wood, paper, nor coal would bum because I have not placed 
the paper, wood, and coal so that oxygen can get in between 
them. A great many people try to make fires in this way, 
and wonder why they will not bum. I will now lay a fire 
properly; the first thing I shall do is to clear out all the ashes 
and cinders, so that air can get through these open bars at the 
bottom of the grate, made on purpose to let in air. I must just 
put a few cinders on the bars, or the paper would lie quite 
flat. I shall use the same paper we had before, only I will 
crumple it up gently, so that some air can get between the 
folds of the paper. Now I will put the pieces of wood one 
across the other like basketwork, so that there will be holes 



*8NOiJLVQNnod Mxrni 

QNV XONai 'UOiflV 



AHvnan onand 

MHOA M3N 3HX 



LIGHTING A FIRE. 7 ' 

between the wood for air to get in, and now I will put some 
fresh coal and a few big cinders over the paper and wood. I 
need not be afraid of patting a good deal, if I do not pnt the 
pieces down flat. Yoa will And that this fire will burn up 
beaatifolly ; we will now separate the cinders from the ashes. 
The ash is a soft powdery sabstance, and contains some 
mineral sabstances, like the iron in the grate, that will not 
bam, only put the fire out, therefore the ashes must always 
be thrown away into the ashpit; bat the cinders must be put 
on the fire, as they contain a great deal of carbon, and will 
born and make a hot fire ; too much paper puts the fire out, 
as it contains hard substances that will not bum, like iron. 
It is wasteful and wicked to throw cmdera into the ashpit. 
I am afraid cinders are often wasted in this way. Ignorant 
people sometimes waste their time in trying to make ashes 
bum, but they might just as well try to make the iron bars 
of the grate bum and take fire. 

Directions ahovi the Use of a Damper a/nd the 

Olecmmg of Oven Fhiea. 

A great deal of food, as well as time, is often wasted because 
people do not understand how to manage or regulate the 
heat of an oven and clean the oven flues. I hope by means 
of this coloured picture of a commpn kitchen grate and oven, 
to teach you how to do this. Of course you have all seen 
your mothers push hot coals under the oven from the kitchen 
fire through a hole at the side of the oven, when they wanted 
to make it hot for baking bread or any food. You can see 
the hole in this picture marked h, the red-hot coals lying 
under the oven, and flames of fire coming from them passing 
up the side and over the top of the oven into a chimney at 
the back of the oven, which is hidden, but dots are drawn 
to show where it is. This small chimney is called a flue, 
and makes the back of the oven hot. In the picture you can 
also see the flames passing up this flue from the hot coals 
until they come to a hole in the side of the kitchen chimney, 
marked o, through which they pass to join the smoke from 
the big kitchen fire, and fly up with it out into the fresh 



8 FIRST LESSON. 

air. Yon mnst particularly notice in the picture that the 
coals under the oven are burning red and making no 
smoke; they do so because plenty of fresh air is entering 
by the hole at the side of the oven to feed the fire and 
flames. An oven such as we are looking at is a square iron 
box, placed or set in a bigger square box, so that a space 
is left under the oven for a fire, and at the side and top for 
plenty of air and the flames to pass round. These places are 
called flues. The fire and flames would die out directly if no 
fresh air could get into the bigger box, just as the flame of a 
candle would go out if put into a box or bottle that was 
covered up to keep out the air. A cook can put out the oven 
flames and fire by shutting this little door that is just above 
the oven in the flue, marked d. This door in the picture is 
pulled out as far as it will come, so that the flames can 
escape into the kitchen chimney. This door is called a damper, 
and when pushed quite in reaches across the chimney and 
prevents any air from passing to the Are and round the oven. 
When a cook wishes to make the heat of the oven less, or 
damp it, she pushes the damper in a little way, so that there is 
less room in the chimney for air to pass through, and there- 
fore less heat is made and the oven grows cooler. By 
experience she learns how to manage the damper and make 
the oven just the heat she wishes. If the flues are not kept 
clean, soot of course would fill them and keep out the air. 
When the oven is no longer wanted for baking, the damper 
should be quite pushed in, and the little door shut at the 
side of the oven through which the hot coals are sent. In 
some ovens this hole is closed by putting a piece of iron over 
it, called an end-iron. When this door and the damper are 
left open the kitchen fire will often not bum bright, because 
the fresh air in the kitchen rushes in round the oven and up 
through the open flue instead of going into the kitchen fire to 
mix with the coals and fan the flames. 

I must now tell you how to clean the little chimneys or 
flues round the oven, and the flue behind the oven, because 
they ought to be cleaned once a week, particularly in cottage 
houses, as these flues are often made very narrow. The most 
difficult flue to clean is the one at the back where the damper 



CLEANING OVEN FLUBS. 9 

is. The damper must,* of coarse, be pulled out before you 
begin to clean, or you oould not get anything to pass down 
to the bottom under the oven where the fire will be. If a 
brush is used it must be very long and narrow like a bottle- 
brush, and have a long bent handle so that the brush can be 
put through the hole at the side of the kitchen chimney, and 
be pulled up and down by the handle. An old servant of 
mine who has a nice cottage home, says she cleans this flue 
by a long chain tied to a stick. She puts the chain through 
the hole at the side of the grate and pulls it up and down 
by the handle, and finds she can send the chain into all the 
comers, as well as hear when it touches the bottom. The 
soot falls, of course, where the hot coals will lie under the 
oven, and must be raked together and sent out through the 
hole that goes into the kitchen fire. An old toasting fork 
with a string and a weight at one end, surrounded by straw, 
does very well. 

The flue at the top of the oven is cleaned by pushing a 
stick or iron rake through a little door in front of the oven, 
marked s. Now we have to clean the side flue farthest from 
the fire. There is a hole on the top or at the side of the oven 
through which an iron can be put to clean this part. A woman 
told me the other day that while cleaning this flue the iron 
fell down and she never expected to see it again, but to her 
surprise she raked it out when she was removing the ashes 
and cinders from under the oven ; these ought always to be 
cleaned out every morning when the g^te is cleaned, and 
before the kitchen fire is lighted. 

I wiU now show you a real oven and grate in a kitchen 
belonging to the school-keeper's house, and then I hope you 
will understand all I have said. 

I wish you would all save your pennies by putting them 
into a penny bank until you have saved enough money to 
buy a complete set of under clothes, cotton dresses, shoes, and 
all that you would require to keep yourselves neat, either at 
home or in service. I have a list of all these things, the 
price and patterns of the cheapest materials, as well as the pat- 
terns of the best shapes in paper to lend you, and also one of 



10 FIEST LB3S0N. 

each of these articles which I have had made, so that you might 
see how nice they look. The French girls, even the poorest, 
possess, hy the time they go out, a large stock of under- 
clothing; they consider it a disgrace to have a torn petticoat 
and poor shoes and stockings. I think the plain strong shoes 
I have chosen are far the best. Laced boots or button boots 
take a long time to fasten, and boots with elastic are very 
bad indeed, because the elastic soon wears out, and then they 
look very slatternly ; unless a person has tidy feet she cannot 
look nice, however good her clothes may be. I hope soon to 
see every girl in our Board Schools at Leeds devoting her 
sewing hours to preparing such an outfit, instead of employ- 
ing her time in making small doll specimens for the annual 
examination by the Government Lispector. 

Things requvred for First Lecbwre. 

Bottle of carbonic acid gas. 

Bottle of ozTgen gas. 

Piece of charcoal, called carboa, fastened to a wire, to put into the 

oxygen. 
Large piece of charcoal. 
A candle. 
Kettle with boiling water to show how steam or hot air goes up to the 

top of the loom. 
No. Sheet. — Carbonic acid gas. 
No. 10 Sheet. — Oxygen gas. 

Girls to copy the names of these two gases. 

Questional for Fvrat Lesson. 

1. How do yon think a kitchen-maid or cook could dress, so that she 
might keep herself neat and respectable all day in the midst of 
her work? 



* Printed copies of Questions are placed in the hands of the children 
after every lecture. Answers to these questions are brought by the chil- 
dren at their next lesson, the following week, in their 8tiff<sover exercise 
books, sufficiently large for their answers over the whole course ; and are 
examined and marked by the Instructress, and returned to the school for 
the children the following day. The marks are cast up and small prizeii 
are awarded at the end of the year. 

Printed copies of the receipts are also given to the girls as they occur 
at the fourth and subsequent lectures, and are pasted into the exercise 



OUTFIT. 11 

2. How would you lay a fire so that it would burn up quickly when 

you wanted to light it? 

3. Eefore laying the fire what would you do with the cinders and ashes 

left in the grate ? Would ashes burn if you were to throw them 
on the fire ? 

4. Why do the flames made by the burning coaU that are poked imder 

the oven fly up the side and over the top, and up into the kitchen 
chimney directly the little door called a damper is pulled out, and 
why do t}ie flames and the heat in the hot coals die out when the 
damper is shut or quite pushed in ? 
6. How would you take out the ashes and cinders that are pushed 
under the oven from the fire, and how would you clean out the 
soot that collects in the side, the top of the oyen, and the small 
chimney through which the flames pass into the brick kitchen 
chimney ? Why must the oven shelf which takes out be well 
scrubbed with sand like a saucepan? 



The following is the sample outfit recommended to the girls in the 
lecture, with the price and quantity of material required for each 
article: — ' 

£ 8, d. 
Bress, 7 yards at b\d, per yard . . . .0*32^ 

Lining 3J 

Buttons .004 

Tucker 2i 

Best twill piping, \ jtadi at 1«. per yard . . .003 

Total cost of dress . . . . £0 ^ ^ 

One WooUen skirting 2 

Flannel petticoat, 2^ yards at ll^d, per yard .024 
Band got off calico 
„ Chemise, 2^ yard at Sid. per yard . . .008^ 
Drawers, If yard at Z^d, per yard . . .006 
Flannel vest, 1^ yards at U. ^d, per yard . . 1 7^ 
Apron with bib, flax or harding (5d,) . . .005 
Holland apron, f yard at 7^. per yard . .006 
„ Hood, 1 yard of print and piping cord . . .006 

Stays . .026 

pair of Stockings, woollen 16 

Shoes, hand*made 6 6 

£1 3 4^ 



t» 

99 
» 

99 
99 
» 

» 



books along with the questions. In this way a ready and permanent 
record of the complete course of instruction is provided for each pupil for 
reference by her in future years. 



12 



FIBST LESSON. 



The following is a detailed ennineration of the Cookery ApparatuB with 
cost of first outfit for one centre : — 

One cooking stove, two ovens, and roasting fire- 
place, complete with all necessary fittings and 

roasting jack 

Other Cookery utensils, including baking boards, 
pans, store tins, and pots, &c., for keeping 

cookery materials 

Cost of cupboard 



£ 8, d. 



14 



2 
8 



11 









£24 11 

In addition there is cost of bringing to class-room water and gas, 
fitting up of sink lined with lead, and repairs to room, varying firom £b 
to £10, according to arrangement of room, &c. 

IHmennons of Cupboard, 
From floor to top 7 feet. 
Width for store 4 feet 9 inches 1 _ 7 fp^* o • -u 

„ for sink 2 feet 6 inches J " 
Three shelves 22 inches broad. 
Tables 2 feet 4 inches broad, 3 feet 6 inches long, 2 feet 4 inches high. 

JList of UtmsUs required at each Centre contained in Cupboard, 



One soup pan. 
Three saucepans. 
One gridiron. 

frying-pan. 

iron kettle. 

bottle jack. 

stand and wheel. 

strainer. 

colander. 

dredging box. 

flour box. 

pepper box. 

grater. 
Three bread tins. 
Four paste boards. 

„ rolling pins. 
One potato crusher. 
Four metal teaspoons. 

„ „ forks. 

One thermometer. 

„ feeding bottle. 

„ small steamer. 

Two meat dishes. 

Six dinner plates. 



*» 



I* 



}t 



>» 



•> 



»» 



»i 



» 



»» 



I) 



I* 



t) 



It 



n 



One hastener. 

dripping tin. 

Yorkshire pudding tin. 
Four wood and iron spoons. 
Ten knives. 
Four forks. 
One knife box. 

milk jug. 

salt cellar. 
Ten basins, yellow. 

» jars. 
Three tumblers. 
Two washing-up bowls. 
One zinc pail. 
„ soap box. 
„ roller, for towels. 
Four kitchen cloths. 
Six dishcloths. 
Two blacklead brushes. 
„ scrubbing brushes. 
One hand brush. 
Two baking sheets. 
One wooden bowl. 

sugar basin. 



»i 



OUTFIT. 13 



lAit of UtennU (continued). 



Six pie dishes. 

,, pastry dishes. 
One teapot and tray. 
Three teacups and saucers. 
One slop basin. 
One China cup and saucer. 



One tray doth. 

„ flower vase. 

„ tray. 

„ small co£fee pot. 
Scales and weights. 
Mncing machine (lent). 



Teackmg Appa/ratus. 

Diagrams, being tables of foods, general directions, salient feicts, &c., 
in large type on mounted sheets, which are to be used at all the centres, 
61. 168. 

lAst of the above. 

1. Drawing of yeast plant. 

2. „ starch cell. 

3. Coloured drawing of oven, flues, and grate. 

Sheets, 

4. Directions about dean hands. 

5. Table of the substances in the juices of fiesh. 

6. Carbonaceous foods called ' body warmers.' 

7. Nitrogenous foods called ' flesh formers.' 

8. Wet foods, green vegetables and fruit. 

9. Table of digestibility of eggs. 

10. Carbonic acid gas. 

11. Oxygen gas. 

Component parts of foods, in stoppered bottles, which are used at all 
the centres, 21. 15a. 

Lkt and Prices, 

s, d. 

Components of Beer 4 6 

„ Flour 6 

„ Seef 8 6 

„ Tea 8 6 

„ Cocoa 8 6 

Milk 7 

„ Potato . . . .76 
}f Egg 4 6 

Teacher's salary is 90/. per annum, which will be divided over the 
Tarious centres, at first probably 10 in number, subsequently 20. 

The gas stoye bums about 100 feet of gas per hour when every burner 
is alight. The average quantity burnt at each lesson, which lasts for two 
hours, is 100 feet, and costs 8<2., because gas is Zd, per 100 feet in Leeds. 

The teacher can give every week one lesson at each of 10 centres. The 
cooked foods are readily bought by the children, or by teachers who come 
some distance to school, at about the cost price of the material. The 
weekly loss on the food for the 10 lessons does not exceed 2s, 



i 



14 SECOND LESSON. 



SECOND LESSON. 

CLEANING. 

LIST OF COOXEBT UTENSIU TO BB WASHED AT THE LESSON. 

Wooden Utensils, — Table tops, pasteboard, polling-pin, vooden 

spoons, and bowls. 
CMna. — Dinner plates, dishes, and milk jngs. 
Tea-things, tray, glass, meat-mincing machine, and iron kettle. 

I HAVE written the names of the kitchen utensils we are 
going to clean to-daj on the large slate over the mantel- 
piece. A cooking utensil means anything that will hold food, 
such as a basin ; or anything upon which we prepare food, 
such as the top of the table ; or anything that helps us to 
prepare food, such as a rolling-pin or mincing machine. 

For cleaning all these things we only use plenty of hot 
and cold water, a scrubbing-brush, and some Calais sand that 
costs about 2(2. per pound (a pound lasts a long time). Our 
dishcloths, tea-cloths, and dusters are all made of the same 
material, harding, which only costs hd. per yard ; three quar- 
ters of a yard makes a towel. We never use soap to clean 
any kind of cookiDg utensil. I hope you will never do so; 
because though soap is a very good thing to take away dirt 
from our hands and clothes, it is a very nasty thing to eat 
Now, when soap is used to wash a table top or any sort of 
cooking utensil, it is almost impossible to wash it all off so 
completely that not a bit shall remain in any bomer. Wood 
sucks up a great deal of water and the soap too that is in 
the water; if you make paste or chop parsley, &c. on the 
wood, the soap will surely come off and get into the food. 
We use soda instead of soap. Soda, like soap, is very fond 
of grease and sucks it all up directly it touches it. We always 
put some soda into the water in which we wash tea-things, 
or any utensil that has contained milk, or any kind of food, 
because there is some grease in every food, though we cannot 
see it. 



CLEANING COOKINa UTENSILS. 15 

Soda would take off gold, but none of onr china has any- 
gold, I am glad to say; if it had "we should have to use a little 
soap. 

Directly we have used a dishcloth, pudding-cloth, or any 
cloth, we wash it in clean hot soda and water, rinse it well 
with plenty of cold water, and then pull it out straight and 
hang it out to dry, so that every part of the cloth can get 
plenty of fresh air or oxygen gas. Oxygen gas makes every- 
thing pure and sweet. You know how much sweeter clean 
clothes smell that have been hung out to dry in fresh air than 
those which have been dried in the house. You must re- 
member that unless every utensil a cook uses is perfectly 
clean and sweet, the food that has been cooked in it will not 
be wholesome or taste nice. I have seen a dirty cook in a 
good house wash all her plates, dishes, and dishcloth in only 
one water, without rinsing them at all. 

Now here you will have to wash everything in at least 
two waters, and be taught that nothing can be clean unless it 
has been well rinsed in clean water. 

As there are twenty girls, I have arranged five separate 
places at each of which four girls will stand and do their work. 
You will each clean one wooden utensil, one or two china plates 
belonging to a dinner-service, some china that belongs to a 
tea-service, also an utensil that has held milk. When you 
have been taught how to clean one wooden utensil you will 
know how every wooden utensil should be cleaned. If you 
know how to clean a china plate you will understand how to 
clean a whole dinner-service ; if you can clean a cap and 
saucer you will know how to clean glass and all that belongs 
to a teei-service, because glass is cleaned in the same way. 
If you can clean any utensil that has held milk you will know 
how to keep every dairy utensil sweet and clean. 

All our wooden utensils are cleaned as follows : — About 
a tabldspoonful of crushed soda is put into the hot or cold 
water that is to be used, to wet the table-top, pasteboard, 
rolling-pin, or whatever the utensil may be ; some Calais sand 
must then be sprinkled all over the table, and then scrubbed 
well with a scrubbing-brush. After the top of the table has 
been well washed and rinsed, every bit of grease will be 






16 SECOND LESSON. 

remoyed, the wood will look white and be so sweet that any 
food can be prepared upon it. 

We wash a dinner-service in the following way: — First pnt 
abont a tablespoonfnl of crushed soda into a tin bowl, pour 
boiling water over it, put in a dirty plate, wash it well with 
a very clean and sweet dishcloth, and then put it into another 
tin bowl of hot or cold water. Should you have no second 
bowl, hold the plates one after another under the tap, put 
them into a rack like ours (which is over the sink), or let 
them rest one against another until they are dry ; you will 
then find they have a beautiftil bright polish. Never wipe a 
dinner-plate, or it will look greasy and not clean and bright. 

The tea-things must be washed in soda and water as hot 
as the hand can bear, and washed by the hand, particularly 
round the outside where we drink ; they should then be well 
rinsed in cold water and wiped dry with a clean cloth. Q-lass 
is washed in the same way, and wiped dry and rubbed antU 
it is vexy bright. The commonest Vte/cnp, or gla^ is an 
ornament to a room when it is perfectly clean. 

Now about milk jugs. Every utensil or feeding bottle 
that has held milk requires to be most carefully washed. 
Directly the milk is taken out boiling water should be poured 
in and allowed to stand in it for at least five minutes. Little 
genua that float in the air are very fond of milk, and get into 
it, feed upon it, and turn it sour. These little germs are too 
small to be seen by the naked eye. A thousand of them can 
live in a single drop of water or milk. They like warm or 
cold water, but water that quite boils at 212^ kills them 
directly. Now this is the reason why I said that the boiling 
water must stand a few minutes in the jug so that it may kill 
any germs that are in the comers. Babies who drink sour 
milk die of bowel complaints, because these little living germs 
in the sour milk get into their blood and poison it. 

At the end of the lesson you shall watch and see how 
1 clean a mincing machine and a feeding bottle. Every part of 
a mincing machine must be taken to pieces when it is cleaned, 
and it must be cleaned directly it has been used ; if the least 
morsel of old meat is lefb in a little comer all the fresh food 
wlU be quite spoiled. The best feeding bottle is the old- 



CLEANING METAL 0TENSILS. 17 

fasliioned one, like this, that has a short teat over the month 
when the infieuit sncks. This teat can be taken off and pnt 
into boiling water, and the bottle can have a little soda and 
boiling water poured into it. It is impossible to clean a 
feeding bottle with a long pipe, because boiling water cannot 
get inside the pipe and into every corner to kill the germs 
that live in milk. 

Directions. — Qnestioiis to be read aloud before the lesson. 

Each girl shoidd find her place and work arranged. 

One table ought to be kept quite free to receive each utensil when it is 
cleaned. 

All dirty utensils are to be sorted and kept quite distinct in one part of 
the room. 

Questions for Second Lesson, 

1. How would you clean milk-jugs, basins, or any utensils in which 

milk has been kept ? 

2. How would you wash dinner plates and dishes that had no gold 

upon them, so that they should have a bright polish ? 

3. How woidd you wash tea-things which have no gold, and glass ? 

4. What is the cheapest and sweetest way of cleaning table-tops, paste- 

boards, rolling-pins, and all wooden utensils ? Why ought a cook 
never to use soap ? 



THIRD LESSON, 

CLEANlNG-^continued, 

Jin and iron uteTuHs. — Saucepans and lids, gridirons, spoons, 
dripping pans, cake-tins, oven-shelves, colanders, tin milking 
pans, flour dredgers. 

Clean sink, brass tap. 

Knives and forks, brass and copper pans, and tea-kettles. 

Metal ware. — Spoons and forks. 

We will read over the list of the utensils we are going to 
dean to-day. Tin and iron utensils are all deemed with hot 
water, soda, and Calais sand ; soap should never be used. 
Copper and brass pans and kettles are cleaned with fche same 
materials that are used in polishing knives and forks — Bath 

c 



18 T^IBD LESSON. 

brick and a leather. Grerman silver utensils are made bright 
by whitening and a leather. One of our pans is new ; I will 
show yon what mnst be done to it before it can be used. I 
shall fill the pan with cold water, then put in two tablespoon- 
fuls of bran and hang the pan on the recon, or place it 
where it can gradually come up to boiling point, then let 
the bran and water simmer for two hours ; the inside of the 
pan will by that time have become beautifully smooth and 
ready for use. Some cooks have a dirty habit of letting soup or 
the water in which meat has been boiled remain in their pans : 
this water should never be wasted or thrown away, but poured 
directly, before it is cold, into a perfectly clean jar and kept 
until the next day, to be used as soup or broth. If any kind 
of food remains in a brass or copper pan, a poison forms, called 
verdigris, and whole families have been poisoned by eating 
this food; it is even dangerous to allow food to remain in 
saucepans that are tinned inside, because lead is sometimes 
mixed with the tin, and the lead mixes with the cold food and 
forms a poisonous substance. 

Before you b^in to clean anything I wish to sho^r you 
why it is necessary to clean the outside of all saucepans as 
well as the inside. Saucepans often get covered with soot 
and so become dirty and make the cook dirty too. Soot also 
prevents the heat of the fire from passing quickly through 
the pan into the water or food. The water in a kettle tbat is 
clean on the outside boOs more quickly than one covered with 
soot. I will prove this by putting some soot over the centre 
of my hand and a small boiling tea-kettle on the top of it. 
You will find I shall be able to hold the boiling kettle there 
for a minute, because the soot will not let the heat in tl.e 
kettle pass through into my hand. I hope yon will not try 
this little experiment yourselves, because it requires great 
care and my kettle is very small and light ; I could not hold a 
large, heavy one. 

We will now wash the inside of the pans. Pour bofling 
water into them, with a little soda ; if there is any burnt fat 
at the bottom you must rub it off with a small piece of flannel 
and Calais sand ; never scratch it off with your nails as 
some little kitchen-maids do, and so wear their nails down to 



GLEANINQ PANS AND SIN£S. 19 

the quick. Now you xxmst wash the outside, and then pat 
the pan under the tap and rinse it well both inside and out ; 
do not wipe it, only turn it down and place it over these 
rails, where plenty of air can enter it. The lids must be 
washed, just as we washed the pans, in hot water and soda, 
and then rinse them well under the tap. Do not wipe them, 
only hang them upon a hook or nail, and you will find that 
when they are dry they will not only be very clean, but have 
a bright poHsh. 

A sink should be very carefully cleaned with a scrubbing 
brush, hot water, and soda; you must remember that the 
opening through which the water runs goes into the large 
drain, and that a short way down the pipe there is a little 
bend which holds about a cupful of water. The water in 
this cup gets quite bad and impure if bits are allowed to go 
down through the hole into the pipe. The first thing to be 
done, therefore, is to collect all the httle bits on the sink, put 
them into a basin with all the potato parings and any tops of 
vegetables there may be, and neatly throw them on to the hot 
ashes under the grate. Cover them over the top with the hot 
ashes, so that the heat from them may bum the bits. By the 
time you have washed up, and want to make up the fire and 
clean the hearth, these bits will not smell when you throw 
them with the cinders on to the back of the fire, but will bum 
like cinders. People should never keep a swill.tub unless they 
have an outhouse. If a wooden tub is used for washing up 
it ought to be put in fresh air, and not under the sink ; tin 
bowls are the best for washing up in, as the grease does not 
sink into them as it does into wood. 1 sometimes see dish- 
cloths, and brushes, and pots put under the sink ; but that is 
not the place for them. Living germs, that are always floating 
in the air, though we cannot see them, settle in anything that 
is damp or greasy, and make it smell fusty, and cause a mould 
to grow. Mould is a collection of living germs. 

We are now going to clean knives. If great care is not 
taken in washing knives and forks, the handles come off. Care- 
less cooks will put the handles into boiling water as well as 
the blades ; the blades only should be placed in a jug of hot 
water and soda, just deep enough to cover the blade, the 

c2 



20 THIED LESSON. 

handles shonld afterwards be dipped into some clean warm 
water and be well wiped. Wben the knives have been made 
bright on a knif eboard/ the handles shonld be nicely wiped, so 
that all dast is removed ; nothing is more disagreeable thsji a 
dasty or dirty knife-handle. Coffee pans and kettles shonld 
be washed inside and out with soda and water as the knives 
are, and then be polished on the ontside with a piece of 
leather and Bath brick powdered very fine. German silver 
ntensils should be well washed with plenty of hot water and 
soda, and polished with leather and whitening. A veiy good 
cleaner uses very little whitening, Bath brick, or any polishing 
powder, as it gets into the corners and makes the utensil look 
dirty instead of clean. 

It will be seen by the list given of the utensils at each centre that it is 
impossible to have a sufficient supply of dirty utensils for twenty girls to 
clean. The cook rubs a little grease inside the cleaned part and some soot 
on the outside if she has not a sufficient number. 

Bequired — ^A small kettle of boiling water. 

Questions for Thi/rd Lesson, 

1. All the following cooking utensils are cleaned in the same way: — 

Iron and tin saucepans, gridirons, dripping pans, cake tins, oven 
shelves, iron spoons, colanders, tin milking pans, saucepan lids, and 
flour dredgers. Describe how you would clean them. 

2. Why must the outside as well as the inside of a saucepan always be 

cleaned ? 

3. How ought a sink to be cleaned ? Where must any bits of food be 

put ? Why is it very unhealthy to keep a swill tub under a sink, 
or in any living room ? 

4. How woidd you make knives and forks quite clean, and afterwards 

give them a bright polish, and prevent the handles from being 
dusty? When you know how to clean and polish knives you will 
know how to polish brass and copper pans and kettles, as thej 
are cleaned with the same materials. 



THE NEW YORK 

PUBLIC LIBRARY 



A8T0R, LFNOX AND 
TILDEN FGUN'D^TiOrJS. 



BREAD-MAKINa* 21 



FOURTH LESSON. 
COOKERY. 

Bread Making, — The use of scales, and how to measure certain 
quantities by kitchen utensils instead of scales — Dough to be 
baked into cakes and bought by the girls. 

Tms is our first lesson in whicli we begin to cook food. Yon 
maBt remember that it is only by practice that yon can learn 
to do anything perfectly. It is impossible for yon to get 
sufficient practice at school to make yon perfect ; this practice 
I hope yon will get in your homes, as all the foods prepared 
here ought to be eaten in every family, if the members of the 
family are to be strong and healthy. In order to help yon to 
practise at home, receipts will be given yon of what yon have 
cooked, so that your parents may understand them and 
provide you with all you require for cooking. I hope you 
will always answer the questions, which are to be given you 
after each ^sh lesson. 

Whenever you have been able to practise at home any of 
the cleaning or cooking taught at the class, give a faithful 
account of how you succeeded, or if you failed in your at- 
tempts. I can assure you that such answers will be read with 
the greatest interest by the Members of the Leeds School 
Board. The food you cook during your lesson is to be 
divided into portions that will be sold to you at the end of the 
lesson for 1(2., 2(2., and 3(2. I told you at the last lesson on 
cleaning that at your lesson after this one, you would make 
bread and buns, so that to-day you can tell me whether you 
would like to buy any. I shall by this means know how much 
bread to make, and how inany buns will be required. There 
will then be no waste and you will have more practice. 

I recommend you to try and keep a cheap little basket like 
this, which costs only 2(2. If a piece of felt, such as this, 
which is half-a-yard, is doubled and wrapped round the 
basin the food it contains will be kept nice and warm, be- 



22 FOURTH LBSSONI 

cause felt will not let the beat escape.' Felt is very cheap- 
ly. 2d, a yard. A qnarter of a yard will be enongb. 

Let ns now read wbat is written on tbe slate over the 
mantelpiece, and then yon will know wbat we are going to 
learn to-day Bread-making — ^Yeast — Weighing. 

Bicad also what is said about clean hands and nails. I see 
yonr hands are very nice indeed. We will now make the 
dongh. and while it is rising I will give yon some information 
abont yeast, flonr, and weighing. In each of the ten bowls 
that are placed round tbe table there are 6 oz. of flonr, and in 
the piece of brown paper by each basin there is ^ oz., rather 
less than half a teaspoonfnl, of brewer's yeast or Oerman 
yeast (the same quantity is required of either kind). Make 
a little hole in the middle of the flour (not quite to the bot- 
tom, or the china is seen, and the yeast would stick to it) ; 
sprinkle a very little salt round the dry flour, put the yeast 
into the cup or mug by your side, and mix a tablespoonful 
and a half of the water that is placed in tbe two jugs on the 
table. First feel the water with your finger, and if it is luke- 
warm, like new milk, it is the right beat. Watch wbat I do 
and then copy me. Mix the water and yeast together, then 
pour it into the hole just a little at a time, so that you can 
mix the water and flour together gradually until it has all been 
made into dough. Now knead the dough well, and keep tm'n- 
ing the outer edges into the middle ; it is almost impossible to 
knead dough too much. When none of the dough sticks to 
your fists, you may give up kneading. Cover the top of the 
basin with a clean cloth and put it near the fire, but not so 
near as on the fender, where tiliere is a draught. After abont 
an hour the top of the dough will begin to separate and look 
like honeycomb ; it will then be ready to make into a loaf and 
put into the oven to bake. Cooks often let the dough stand 
until it separates a second time on the top, when the weather 
is not very hot. Dough sucks in air, just as a sponge sucks 
in water. The air in this room, which has entered the doagh, 
is pure because our windows are open at the top and the room 
is sweet and clean. Bakehouses are often filthy places, and 
the bread will also be very dirty, though it looks all right to 
the eye. At the next lesson the ten youngest girls shall 



TEAST. 



23 



Fig. 1. 




Teast Plant 
(magnified). 



make tiie same quantity of dongh. The quarter of a pound 
of flour will make a little roll that we mean to sell for a 
halfpenny ; it would be a penny at the shops. A quarter of 
a pound just makes a tea-cake. Now the dough is rising. 

Yeast is a most wonderful substance. Every cook ought to 
know its history ; some of you may know it. Lest there should 
be any here who do not, I must describe it as shortly as I can. 
Grerman and brewer's yeast are the same substances ; the only 
difference between them is that the German 
is dried and comes from Holland, and the 
brewer's is fresh and is bought at any brewery 
in Leeds. Yeast is a plant, and looks like a 
little bag when seen through a magnifying 
glass. You may fiincy how tiny it is when 
30,000 will only cover a square inch; no 
wonder we cannot see them, though the air 
is full of them. In this picture you can see 
them. They grow one out of another like the soap bubbles 
that you blow out of a pipe. In one teaspoonful of brewer's 
yeast there will be several thousand little yeast plants. They 
cannot grow without food ; they grow very quickly on sugar 
and water ; and while they are growing they make a great 
deal of air, which we call carbonic acid gas. When the yeast 
is mixed up in the flour it feeds on the sugar there is in the 
flour, and Alls the dough with air bubbles, that lift (or rise, 
as we say) every part of the dough. When the yeast plant 
has eaten up all the sugar it can find in the flour or dough, 
the dough becomes sour. In the winter the dough can be 
allowed to rise twice, but in the summer once is enough and 
then the dough should be baked. The little yeast plant is 
qnite still and will not work in cold weather. Boiling water 
kiUs it, but warm water, such as you mixed with it, makes it 
grow very quickly. You must look through the little window 
in the oven door. Directly the dough is put in you will see 
how the little plant enjoys the heat and grows so fast that 
the top of the dough rises and swells up. In about five or 
ten minutes the poor little thing will be killed by the heat in 
the oven, which to bake bread well ought to be as great as 
boiling water, and it will then cease to work — a good thing 



u 



FOUBTH LESSON. 



too, or the bread would be full of air-lioleB. Yon shall be 
taught how to bake bread in the lesson after next. The yeast 
plant is like a tiny little egg which is spoiled if it is cmshed. 
Cooks can keep the yeast plant alive by feeding it on sugar in 
the summer time when it is scarce. Just look at the brewer's 
yeast in that jug, how it is growing and working. If you 
were to put it into a bottle and cork it up, it would soon 
push the cork out and send it flying to the other side of the 
room, or it would burst the bottle. This dried yeast is also 
working away because it has found something to feed on in 
the warm water. 

I will now tell you which kind of flour is the most 
nourishing and the best to buy, and mention the names of 
, some of the principal things flour contains ; they are clearly 
written down on the sheet on the wall : — 

' Albumen makes our flesh, nerves, and muscles. 

' Starch only makes our fat. 

' Phosphorus, lime, and gelatine. These three things are 
the only substances' that will make our bones hard and 
strong.' 

FlQ. 2. 




^tctacA 






dy Warmers I Welter I Flesh Formens iMlaeiMls. 



Componeiits of 1 pound o^ Flour . 



The bottles which are placed on this stand contain the 
water and the quantity of each of the principal substances 
that could be taken out of one pound of flour. We will 
examine them. Here is albumen or gluten, that makes our 
flesh, muscles, and nerves ; here is the starch which makes onr 
fet ; the hme, phosphorus, and gelatine which make our bones 



BEST AND SECONDS FLOUR. 25 

grow strong and hard. All children (except babies) who 
have cat all their teeth should eat a great deal of bread daily, 
becaiLBe it wiU make their bones grow hard. If a child's bones 
are not qnite hard before it is seven years old, they will never 
be strong, and its legs will be crooked and weak. 

The starch in flour is exactly the same starch your mothers 
use to stiffen your fathers' shirt collars and fronts. I wish 
yon to notice that starch is a very white substance. The 
whitest and dearest of flour, called best, costs 2^(2. per pound ; 
this flour is chiefly starch, and though the bread that is made 
of it looks very white it is not very nourishing, because the 
starch only makes fat. Albumen, phosphorus, gelatine, iron, 
and lime, which feed our muscles and nerves, and make our 
bones strong, are dark-coloured substances, and make the flour 
less white. This darker flour is called seconds, and costs only 
id. per pound. You can see the difference in their colour, as 
I have some of each kind in these two bottles. I hope you 
will always buy seconds, because it is not only more nourish- 
ing, but it has a sweeter flavour. Flour is the most nourishing 
of all vegetahles] flour is a vegetable food because it comes 
from wheat that grew in the ground. Every food that has 
grown in the ground is called a vegetable. You must remem- 
ber this fact, or you will not understand what I shall tell you 
during the cookery lessons about the different kinds of food. 

I shall begin the next lesson by showing you how to 
weigh out the exact quantity of flour and yeast you require 
for the dough. 

There are sixteen ounces in a pound, eight ounces in half a 
pound, and four ounces in a quarter of a pound. Every pound 
of flour requires one gill of water to mix it into dough of the 
right stiffness, and half an ounce of yeast to make it rise, and 
a quarter of a teaspoonful of salt. You must always put the 
salt in when the flour is quite dry. All families do not possess 
a pair of scales, but a cook can manage without them if she 
takes the trouble to And basins, mugs, and spoons that 
hold certain quantities. For instance, this basin exactly holds 
a pound of flour, this basin half a pound, and this cup a 
quarter. This jug holds one pint, and this small mug a gill. 
A tablespoon holds one ounce. 



26 FIFTH LESSON. 

Articlea required. 

No. 4 Sheet.— Clean hands, &c. 
No. 6 Sheet. — ^Principal component parts of bread. 
Food collection of component parts of one pound of flour. 
No. 1 Sheet. — ^Picture of yeast plant. 
Samples of the whitest flour. 
„ of the seconds flour. 
German and brewer's yeast, in two tumblers. 
Kettle of boiling water. Four some of the water into one of the tumblers 

of yeast, to prove that the yeast plant is killed by that degree of heat. 

Four a little tepid water into the other tumbler, to show how that 

heat makes the plant fftmu. 

Questions for Fourth Lesson. 

1. How would you know when your dough had risen enough before 

putting it into the oven to bake ? Why onght bread to be made in 
a clean room filled with good air? 

2. Every kind of food that grows in the ground is called a * vegetable.' 

Is flour a * vegetable ' ? 

3. There are two kinds of flour. One kind is very white, the other is 

not so white, and is called ' seconds.' In which kind of flour do 
we flnd the most of the following things : — Albumen, that makes 
our flesh, muscles, and nerves; starch, that makes our fat; lime, 
phosphorus, and gelatine, which are the only three things which 
make our bones grow strong and hard ? 

4. How can you tell the yeast plant? 

Receipt for Fourth Lesson. 

Bbbai) Cakes.— 6 oz. of flour or 6 tablespoonfuls, i oz. or half a tea- 
spoonful of German yeast, a pinch of salt, about two tablespoonfiils of 
either water or milk just lukewarm, then let it rise for ^ hour, and bake 
J hour. 



FIFTH LESSON. 

COOKERY— -continued. 



USB OF THBBMOUBTBB — BBBAD-BAXING — TBACAKSS, BUK8, 8MSD 

AND CUBBAirr CAKB. 

As yonr lesson only lasts for an hour and a half, it is not 
possible to teach yon how to make bread and how to bake it 
in one lesson. I have^ therefore^ brought a small (jnanti^ of 



USB OF THE THEBMOMETEB. 27 

dongh which I made at home, that is nearly ready for baking. - 
I kept it as warm as possible in my little basket with this 
piece of felt ; still, for fear that the little yeast plant may have 
been chilled by being carried throngh the cold air, I will cover 
tbe basin over with a clean cloth and place it on a chair near 
the fire, where there will be sufficient warmth to make the 
jeast grow. 

While the yeast plant is working I will try and explain to 
you the nse of the thermometer which I hold in my hand. 
By this instrument we can find out how many degrees of 
heat there are in the water or food when it is being boiled 
on the fire, or how many degrees of heat the oven contains. 
You see we measure heat by degrees, not by pownda or otmces, 
as we measure flour and food. If we apply too much heat or 
hot air to food we bum it ; and if we apply too little, the food 
is not cooked enough. Bakers in Paris and Vienna, where 
the best bread in the world is made, have thermometers in 
their ovens which tell them exactly how much heat the oven 
contains. The air in an oven ought to be at 410° of heat when 
the dough is put in. We have a thermometer in each of our 
oven doors. The thermometer I have in my hand is for 
patting into water or any food. It is, you see, a long glass tube 
with figures on it, the bottom figure is 1° and the top 500°. 
Between each figure there are little dark lines ; the space 
between these lines is called a degree. At the bottom of the 
pipe there is a glass ball filled with a white substance called 
quichsiher, because it looks like silver and moves very quickly 
directly any heat touches it. My hand is warm. I will, 
therefore, put it over the ball of quicksilver, and you will see 
how the heat from my hand will get into the quicksilver and 
make it warm, cause it to swell, and rise up very quickly 
through the pipe. When the quicksilver stops I shall look 
at the figure on the dark line opposite to which it stops« and 
then I shall know how hot my blood is, or how many de- 
grees of heat it contains. 

We will look at the thermometer on the oven door. The 
ball with the quicksilver is placed inside the oven, so that 
the hot air in the oven can touch it. The little white line of 
qnickailver has risen up, you see, to 410°, and there it stands. 



28 FIFTH LESSON. 

We must now put our dough in directly^ or the oven will 
get hotter and spoil our bread. Before we put it in I must 
teach you how to find out the heat of the oven for baking 
bread without a thermometer, as very few ovens possess 
one, I am sorry to say. I shall sprinkle this pinch of flour 
on the bottom of the oven ; if it becomes a nice brown colour 
in a minute, the oven would be just the righi^ heat ; but if 
the flour turns black, the oven is too hot, and if it does not 
become a nice brown, then there will not be heat enough to 
bake the bread. You see this flour has browned very nicely 
in a minute. I wonder whether you would put the bread on 
the top or the bottom shelf of the oven. As the air is the 
hottest at the top, the dough would be quite spoiled if yon 
put it there, because the heat would £all down on the top of 
the dough and bake the top so hard that the dough would not 
rise. At the end of ten minutes you will And by looking 
through this glass window that the heat in the bottom shelf 
has entered the bottom of the dough, made the yeast plant 
grow, the starch cells in the flour swell, and sent the water 
which was in the dough out through the holes we pricked 
with a fork on the top of the dough. Water weighs very 
heavy^ and, if not driven out, would make the bread when 
baked very heavy ; dishonest bakers know this, and put their 
loaves on the top shelf flrst to harden the top crust and pre- 
vent the water from getting out, and so get more money, as 
they sell the loaves by weight. Directly a loaf of bread is 
taken out of the oven it should either be placed down on its 
side or on the top crust, so that the water or steam that still 
remains can get out at the bottom of the loaf, which is not so 
hard as the crust. As the loaf we have just put into the oven 
is only a small one, it must be put on the top shelf in ten 
minutes. A pound loaf should remain a rather longer time. 

We are now going to make some currant buns, seed buns, 
and teacakes. To make all these we must have four pounds 
of flour, half a teaspoonful of salt, four ounces of dripping, one 
^gS* G^erman yeast ^ OTince, half a pint of milk, which must 
be lukewarm, a small teaspoonful of carraway seeds, a 
quarter of a pound (or four tablespoonfuls) of currants, four 
ounces of sugar. Currants ought to be very carefully washed. 



CUBRA.NT BUNS. 



29 



as thej are very dirty, and have little bits of stone whicli 
might break the teeth ; they must also be very dry before 
they are put into the flonr, or the water if lefb in will make 
the cakes heavy, I should wash raisins, dates, figs, and all 
dried fruits, because they often contain mites, and are very 
dirty. Cooks wash a pound of currants or more at a time, 
and put them when clean and d/ry into the jar, so that they 
may be ready when they are wanted. I have divided one 
pound into ten portions, so that ten girls can learn how to 
wash them at this lesson, and ten at the next. They must be 
washed in two cold waters, then made as dry as possible, and 
put by the fire. Now eight girls shall have half a pound of 
fiour. The salt must first be sprinkled into the dry flour, 
then the diipping be rubbed in, and sugar and currants or 
seeds added ; the egg ought to be broken into a basin first, 
to see whether it is a good one. After it has been well beaten, 
the yeast and milk should be added, and all mixed gradually 
with the flour until a smooth paste is made, which must be 
well kneaded and allowed to rise for twenty minutes ; the 
cake should then be made into either buns, teacakes, or cur- 
rant loaf, and put on a tin. Before the cakes are put to 
bake in the oven, they must stand before the fire to rise again 
for a few minutes. The tins in which the loaf or teacakes 
are baked must first have a little dripping rubbed in them to 
prevent the cake from sticking to the sides. 

Beqnired — ^A thermometer. 





Cost 


«. d. 


Mooday 
Tuesday 
Wednesday , 
Thursday 
Friday 


1 • • 1 


1 
. 1 
. 1 
. 1 
. 1 

5 



BREAD, BUNS, TEACAKES. 



Monday 

Tuesday 

Wednesday 

Thursday 

Friday 



Sold. 



«. d. 



1 
1 
1 
1 
1 











5 



8, 

b 
6 








Money expenses .... 

Money received .... 

Bought and sold for one week ; the following week the same. Each girl 
had a penny bun, which just covered the expense of the flour, yeast, and 



80 SIXTH LESSOK. 

znilk. They were very much larger than those sold in the shops. In tlie 
second week of bread-making, we put in for a change currants, seeds, and 
one egg, with a little lard. These buns were also sold for a penny each. 

Questions for Fifth Lesson. 

1. How would you find out when an oven was the right heat for baking 

bread if you had no thermometer? 

2. Why will a loaf of bread be sad or heavy if it is first put on the top 

shelf in an oven, instead of being first put for about ten minutes 
on the bottom shelf? 

3. How would you make a bun or teacake with or without currants, 

also a seed or currant loaf? 

Receipts for Fifth Lesson. 

GuKEiANT Bt7NS, Sebd Buns or Tbacaxbs. — 2 lbs. of flour, ^ a tea- 
spoonful of salt, 2 oz. of dripping, 1 egg ; G-erman yeast J oz. ; lulf pint 
of milk (lukewarm) ; small teaspoonful of carraway seed or 3 oz. of cur- 
rants ; 3 oz. of sugar. 

The currants should be very carefully washed and dried. 

EocK Buns. — Melt in a basin 3 oz. of butter or dripping (do not make 
it too hot), stir in 1 lb. of flour, \ lb. sugar (3 oz. of currants or an ounce of 
seeds, which yon like best), 1 oz. of candied peel. Whisk 2 ^ggs to a &oth. 
mix half a gill of milk with the eggs, then work the whole together and 
bake in a modezste oyen. 



SIXTH LESSON. 

COOKERY-^cmtinued. 

BOIL AXD POACH AN BGG — QBELL A ITOTTON CHOP OB BBBF 8TBAX — 

BOIL POTATOES — BGO . SANDWICHES. 

To-day yon are to learn how to cook an eg'g in its ^ell, and 
how to poach one, 8o that the white part shall be sofb and 
well done, withont a clock to tell yon how many minntes 
these eggs have been in the water; how to grill a mutton 
chop on a gridiron so that none of the flavouring matter, 
called osmazome, shall escape, or any of the gravy or juices 
run oat ; and how to boil some potatoes. 

The eggs and mutton chop are both animal foods, and the 



BOILING WATEB. 31 

potato is a vegetable food. There are some people who think 
that they only take animal food when they eat beef, mutton, 
pork, poultry, game, or fish, but they also eat and drink 
animal foods when they take eggs, milk, butter, cream, 
cheese, dripping, suet, lard, cod-liver oil, because all these 
foods are taken from animals, and are therefore animal foods. 
There are also persons who think that they only take vege- 
tables when they eat potatoes, cabbages, or any green stuff 
that grows in a garden ; but a vegetable is anything that 
grows in the earth, such as com (which is ground into flour 
and made into bread), oatmeal, rice, sugar, <fec. When you 
have been taught how to cook one kind of animal food you 
will soon learn by practice how to cook all aninml foods ; and 
when you have learned how to cook a potato you vrill soon 
learn in the same way how to cook every kind of vegetable. 
The great art of cooking is not to let any of the good things 
that each food contains get out and be wasted during the cook- 
ing, and to make the food tender, so that our teeth can chop 
it up. Before we cook an egg we will find out what the 
principal things are which an egg contains by examining the 
contents of these bottles that are placed in this stand. Albu- 
men, &c. 

As these substances are dried you must not expect to find 
that they will have the same colour as they would if they 
were in the fresh food, or be as large in quantity ; the most 
important substance is albumen, because it nourishes our 
nerves, flesh, and muscles. It is made hard and indigestible 
for delicate stomachs when cooked in boiling water. Water 
boils when the quicksilver in the thermometer rises to 212^, as 
I will prove to you by putting this thermometer into a kettle 
of boiling water. You know that a kettle is boiling when the 
steam pours out through the spout as it is now doing. If we 
were to let the kettle boil a little longer, all the water would 
be changed into steam and fly up the chimney, and the kettle 
would be left empty and bum. Bemember that all foods 
when they really boil at 212^ are being changed into steam 
and fly up the chimney. The French people are the best and 
most economical cooks in the world ; the first lesson a French 
girl is taught by her mistress is to cook every food gently and 



32 SIXTH LESSON. 

well. The English are the most wastefal and worst cooks in 
the world, because they do not understand anything about the 
nature of the food they cook, and because they think that if a 
saucepan with food is put on the fire and boils away they have 
done all that is necessary. If you read what is written on 
that sheet on the wall, you will learn at what degree of heat 
food should be cooked, which is about 180*^. 

We will now put the thermometer into a kettle of boiling 
water. You see the quicksilver has risen to 212°, called 
boiling point. The quicksilver will never rise any higher in 
boiling water, because water cannot be made any hotter than 
boiling heat. We will now put the thermometer into this 
pan of water that is hanging on the hook, or recon, over the 
fire. You see the quicksilver rises and stands till opposite 
the figure 180°, that is called simmering heat, and is the 
right heat at which animal and vegetable foods should be 
cooked. Now we will put the thermometer into this little 
pan of water that stands on the brig ; it is, you see, also at 
simmering heat, 180°. You would find that if you were to 
let a pan of water boil on the fire and then put it on the hob 
or on the top of your oven at home, the food in the pan 
would keep simmering at the right heat, 180°. Two or three 
pans with food can be safely cooking at the same time when 
they are put on the hob, or where the food will not boil and 
spoil. A cook need not then be in a fright or fuss lest her 
dinner should be spoiled, because she is not obliged to watch 
the saucepans every instant. I have seen a very large dinner 
beautifully cooked by a fireplace exactly like those in your 
houses, which had only a small open grate, an oven on one 
side, a small boiler on the other, and a recon over the fire on 
which a large saucepan with a round handle like ours could 
hang. The food in these pans was first boiled on the fire for 
about five minutes before the pans were put on the different 
places I have named to simmer. The cook began to prepare 
the dinner early, and therefore allowed nearly twice the time 
for cooking each food. 

Before we cook an egg I wiU show you a raw one, so that 
you may see how the albumen, or white part, looks before it 
is cooked, and then you shall see a hard boiled egg that hi*8 



EGGS. — MUTTON CHOPS. 33 

been bofled for five minutes in boiling water, so that jon may 
compare it with an egg that is properly cooked without being 
boiled at 212^ 

I will pat this pan of water on the fire to boil. Directly it 
really boils I shall take the pan ofi*, and instantly put this fresh 
egg into the water, cover the pan with a lid to keep in the 
steam^ and pnt the pan on the fender. When the egg has 
remained in the water. for about five minutes, as far as I can 
guess, I shall take it out, because you remember we are not to 
look at a clock. A stale or a bad egg^ like bad meat, cannot 
be made to look right, however you may cook it. As about 
five or six minutes have now passed, I tfiU take the egg out 
and just break the top for you to see how creamy and nice the 
white looks, and that it is just stiff enough. The white part 
of an underdone egg looks slimy mA disagreeable. 

We must also poach an egg m tibe same way, that is cook 
one without its shell. I have an egg all ready in this cup. 
Directly the water quite boils I will take the pan off the fire, 
slip the egg in, put on the lid, and let the pan stand for about 
five or six minutes on the fender, which is not quite cold ; a 
hob, recon, or brig would be too hot. An egg cannot be 
cooked in this way by guess, unless the saucepan has a lid to 
cover up the top and keep in the heat and steam. 

The mutton chop and potatoes we are going to cook are for 
a delicate person who has a poor appetite, and wants a very 
tempting little dinner that can easily be^digested. If every- 
thing is not very hot, our little dinner will be spoiled. A 
mutton chop or beefsteak ought to be carried straight from 
the fire to the person who is to eat it ; the plates must there- 
fore be put where they can get hot, and we must get the 
tray rdady, cover it with this little white cloth, see that the 
salt-cellar is clean. and filled with clean salt, and that the 
tumbler is very bright, the water fresh, and everything as 
nice as it can possibly be. As a mutton chop will be cooked 
in a much shorter time than the potatoes, I put two pota- 
toes into this saucepan just before you all arrived, so that 
they might be ready when the chop was done. Before we 
cook the x£utton chop I must tell you that mutton is animal 
food and contains albumen and the same substances that are 

n 



34 SIXTH LESSON. 

to be found in an egg. I mast also remind yon that the great 
art of cooking is not to let any of the good things that each 
food contains get ont and be wasted, and to make the food 
tender so that onr teeth can chop it np. This fine chop is fall 
of jnice and albumen. We must let the heat of the fire he so 
great that it will instantly harden the albumen that is on the 
outside of the meat so that the juices cannot run out. The fire 
must be very hot and the coals all red, not black and smoky ; 
a black fire sends out too little heat to harden the albumen 
quickly, and the smoke that comes from it would make the 
chop taste of soot. Our gridiron, which is only a thick iron 
one, must be put on the fire to get warm before the chop is 
put on to it) or the raw meat would stick to the cold iron bars. 
Some cooks have a dirty habit of rubbing grease over the 
bars, but you must never do this, only make them warm. We 
will now put the chop on the gridiron with a spoon and knife ; 
take care never to stick a fork into a chop or bee&teak, or 
the juices will run out of the holes made by the fork. A fine 
large chop will be well cooked in twelve minutes if it is 
turned every two minutes, and eighteen minutes if it is tamed 
every minute ; a ismall chop will take about ten minutes if 
turned every two minutes; at the famous chop honse at 
Bamsley the xihops are turned every minute and take twenty 
minutes. A chop when properly cooked in this way wHl be 
full of gravy and ought to be eaten with a hot potato and a 
little pepper and salt ; never put butter on a chop or gravy in 
the dish. If any of you would like to buy a chop next week, 
and two potatoes cooked in their skins, I could let yon cook 
the chop and also prepare the potatoes yourselves ; the chop 
and potatoes will cost 4(2. 

Now that our chop and potatoes are done, I will teach 
you how to wash potatoes and cook them. Potatoes and all 
vegetables must be washed in cold water, but not allowed 
to stand in it ; great care should be taken that all the dirt is 
got out of the holes ; a clean old scrubbing brush takes it 
out best. Two potatoes were all we wanted to-day ; never 
boil, as some careless cooks do, more than are wanted. Pota- 
toes should always be boiled in their skins, because there is a 
corky subbtanoe in the skin of a potato which prevents any 



CHOPS AND POTATOES. 35 

water from entering the potato, and also prevents any of the 
juices and good things ^m getting out. The two potatoes 
mnst be the same size, becanse a large one would ti^e more 
time to cook than a small one, and they would not be ready 
at the same time. They should be put into a pan of boiling 
water, and after they have boiled for about five minutes on 
the fire, the pan should hang on the recon and the potatoes 
cook until they are tender ; the potatoes should have pleniy 
of room in the saucepan and be well covered over with 
water. 

I will now boil the two soft-boiled eggs I cooked at the 
beginning of the lesson, until they are hard, and then make 
sandwiches, as we must not waste them. Hard-boiled eggs 
make excellent sandwiches for people who have a strong 
digestion, prepared in the following way : cut some slices of 
bread and butter, chop up the white and yolk of the hard 
eggs iuto very small pieces, and add salt and pepper to taste ; 
when all is well mixed up spread the egg with a spoon over 
the bread and butter, and then put a slice of bread and butter 
over the minced egg. 

Egg sandwiches are very good and nourishing food for 
people who go long journeys, and for teachers to take as part 
of their lunch. 

Required for Lesson, 

Component parts of an egg. 

Sheet with the effect of heat on- albumen and the proper heat for 

cooking. 
A thermometer. 
Kettle with boiling water. 
Pan with water at 180^, 

Questions for Sixth Lesson* 

1. How would you cook a firesh egg, or poach one, so that the white 

part (called eUbumen) should be soft and well done, if you had no 
dock to tell you how long the egg had remained in the water? 

2. How would you cook a mutton chop or bee&teak on the gridiron as 

that all the gravy and juices should be kept in, and the meat be 
tender and tempting for a delicate stomach ? 

3. How would you boil a potato or any vegetable ? 

D 2 



36 SEVENTH LESSON. 



Receipts for Sixth Lesson* 

How TO COOK AK £oo WITHOUT BoiLjNO IT. — Let a pan of warm water 
thoroughly boil. As the pan is lifted from the fire have an ^g ready in 
the hand to put in, and instantly cover the pan to keep in the steam, place 
it on the warm fender and let it remain for four or five minutes, when the 
egg will be done. A poached egg is done in exactly the same way. 

Gbill a. Mutton Chop ob Bbefstbak. — Plsu^e the chop on a clean 
warm gridiron, with a knife and spoon, so that no holes are made in the 
flesh to let out the gravy ; the gridiron must first be warmed or the chop 
will stick to the bars ; the fire ought to be very bright and red, and the chop 
turned once every two minutes. A large chop takes twelve minutes and 
a thin one about ten. A beefsteak is cooked in the same way. 

Eqo Sakdwichbs. — Boil an egg until it is quite hard, chop fine, add a 
little pepper and salt to taste, cut two slices of bread and butter, put the 
chopped egg on one slice and cover over with the other, then cut the 
slices into convenient sizes. 



SEVENTH LESSON. 
COOKEBY—contifmed. 

BOAST BEBF — TOBKSHIBB PXTDDING — CABBAOB OB CAUUTLOWHR. 

Befobe we roast beef I must let you look at the contents of 
these six bottles, which contain the principal substances to be 
found in one pound of beef — albumen, osmazome or flavouring 
matter, &c. 

We will now weigh the little joint, which is a piece of thin 
flank. As it weighs 1^ lbs. it will take three quarters of an hoar 
to roast, because we allow nearly half an hour for each pound 
when there is sT great deal of gristle and bone in the joint (a 
quarter of an hour is the usual time)^ People do not gene- 
rally consider this a good joint, nor many others that hare a 
g^od deal of bone and gristle, but they would not think so if 
they had once eaten such joints when they had been well 
cooked. Our butcher tells me that it* is quite sad to see how 
women come in a great fuss and ask for something that can 
be cooked quickly before their husbands come home,, and 



ItHE new YORK 

PUBLIC LIBRARY 



A8T0R, LENOX AND 
TILDEN FOUNDATIONS. 



ROAST BEEF. 37 

1 N 

therefore cannot huj the good, cheap joints that should have 
been cooking for him for a very long iime, so that they might 
be thoroughly done. A breast and shoulder of mutton ought to 
have the same time, and then they are excellent. Now that 
the meat has been weighed, we will wash it by dipping it into 
this pan of very hot water, and then dry it. All butcher's 
meat should be washed in the same way before it is cooked, 
because it often comes from a dirty slaughter-house and is car- 
ried in dirty carts or on the heads of butchers' boys. The meat 
is also sometimes wrapped in newspaper, and the newspaper 
sticks so fast to the meat that it cannot be all removed unless 
it is washed off. Newspaper is covered over with ink, which 
contains some poisonous substances, and therefore ought never 
to be used to wrap up or cover any kind of food. A friend of 
mine told me that he once had a calf's head for dinner upon 
which he found small pieces of newspaper. B'atchers are 
sometimes injured by even handling diseased meat. Though 
some professed cooks will tell you never to wash meat, they 
do wash it themselves with the dripping with which they 
baste the joint while it is roasting. If the meat is boiled it 
is made clean by the water in which it is cooked. This 
water is kept and made into soup, for it should never be 
thrown away and wasted. 

Dripping ought to be very clean, as it is used for pastry, 
frying, <fec., and a Yorkshire pudding is always placed under 
the meat to receive some of the dripping. Before we hang 
the joint in front of the fire we must see that our fire is 
bright and red, so that it will send out a great deal of heat to 
harden the albumen on the outside of the flesh, and so keep 
in all the juices, gravy, &c. The joint should be placed very 
near the fire for the first ten minutes, and then be removed 
to about a foot, with a screen put partly around it to prevent 
the cold air from carrying ofE the heat. I wish you particu- 
larly to notice that raw beef has none of the good odour or 
smell which comes out while it is roasting, fills the air of the 
kitchen, and makes your mouth water if you are very hungry. 
The substance that causes this peculiar odour is called osma- 
zome : it is a very delicate substance, because too much heat 
spoils it, and a certain quantity of heat is necessary to bring 



38 SEVENTH LBSSOK. 

• * 

it ont. This flayonring matter helps people to digest their 
food. Boasting is the most wholesome way of cooking meat, 
beoause if it is properly done the outside of the meat can be 
hardened so that the juices and osmazome cannot escape ; 
and if a kitchen is well ventilated, has plenty of fresh air 
brought in from the top part of an open window, so that there 
will be no draught at the hoUom of the room, the oxygen in 
the fresh air will constantly pass into and through the meat 
which is roasting, mix with any burnt fat on the outside, and 
change it so that it will not be unwholesome and indigestible 
when eaten. You see how important it is that a kitchen oven 
or any place where food is cooked should have a good supply 
of fresh air. The fat on the outside of our joint is beginning 
to melt ; we must therefore baste it by pouring the melted 
fat or dripping over the meat. The hot fat will help to cook 
the meat, .prevent the meat from burning, and keep in the 
juices, &c. 

It is now time we washed the cabbage. The outer leaves 
which do not look quite fresh must be taken o£P, a piece cut 
o£E the stem, and two deep cuts made in the shape of a cross 
down into the heart of the leaves, so that the cold water 
and salt it is washed in can get among the leaves. The salt 
will kill any gprubs, and they will fall out into the water. 
Children have had tapeworm from eating raw or unwashed 
greens. After the cabbage has remained in the water and 
salt for about five minutes it must be rinsed in another cold 
water or be held under the tap. We will not crush the cab- 
bage up in a small saucepan, but put it into one that is suffi- 
ciently large, filled with boiling water and a little salt and 
soda to keep the green colour. The cover of the pan can be 
left on. When the pan with the cabbage has boiled about five 
minutes on the fire, it shall hang on the recon and remain 
there until the cabbage is quite tender. 

After the Yorkshire pudding has been made I will tell you 
why all vegetables grow bigger while they are being cooked. 
We do not cook our vegetables half long enough in England, 
and they are therefore considered indigestible foods. The 
French and Germans eat nearly double the quantity of vege- 
tables that the English people do, and they do not suffer as 



YORKSHIRE PUDDING. — VBGBTABLBS, 39 

maoh as we do £rom stomach complamts. When a vegetable 
is taken out of the saucepan, it onght to have all the water 
squeezed out by being put into a basin called a colander, and 
a plate should be placed on the top to press your hands on 
to squeeze out the water. If a colander is nc^ to be got, the 
cabbage can be put into a potato -steamer, with a plate on the 
top to press out the water. The water must be got out by 
some means. Take care never to throw the water in which a 
cabbage has been boiled down the sink, because the house wiU 
then be filled with a bad smell, which tells directly that the 
cook is a very careless person. Cabbage-water should be 
thrown on to the ash-pit. 

Beceijf^tfor TorJesMre Pudding — Ingredients. — 1 gill of milk; 
2 tablespoonfuls of flour ; 1 egg and a pinch of salt. Put 
the flour and salt into a basin as for bread, make a hole in 
the centre, and gradually stir enough of the gill of milk to 
make the flour into a very smooth paste ; break the egg into a 
basin ; when it has been well beaten, add it to the paste and 
the remainder of the milk. The whole pudding shoold then 
be mixed up very quickly together, and poured into the hot 
greased tin and put on the bottom of the oven for three 
minutes ; then place it under the roast meat for one hour. 
About 1 oz. of dripjping' should he put into the tin and 
left to bubble, when it will be the time to pour in the batter. 
The lightness of the pudding depends a good deal on 
this. 

Boast meat that is of good quality ought to contain 
enough gravy, and should not be sent to the table with any 
made gravy in the dish. Gravy is good to the Yorkshire 
pudding, and can he sent by itself. 

While the dinner is cooking I will tell you why all green 
vegetables swell when they are cooked. I have brought aU 
the principal substances that are found in one pound of pota- 
toes, and amongst them you see this large bottle filled with 
starch. This starch is like common starch used to stifEen 
linen. If you could see a little of it through a microscope 
you would find that it was made of little bags or cells such as 
you see drawn in this picture* Directly these little starch 
cells become hot they swell and grow much bigger, as you 



•40 SEYBNTH LESSON. 

can see hy this picture, wliich shows you the comparatiye size 
of a cooked and nncooked starch cell. When yon have seen 
how much starch there is to be f onild in one pound of pota- 
toes, yon will know how much there is to be found in cabbages 
and aU green vegetables. 

jipparattu, ^c, Required. 

Oomponent parts of 1 lb. of beef. 
Component parts of 1 lb. of potatoes. 
No. 2 Sheet, picture of starch cells. 

Foods to be Cooked* 
Joint. . Cgg. 



Flour. 
Milk. 



Cabbage, 
Dripping. 



SvGOBSTiONS TO THB Coox. — ^If there is too much information for one 
lesson, some part of it could be reserved for the practice lesson the follow- 
ing week. 

The Cost of Dinner and how it was Sold, 

9. d. 

Cost of meat, 1} lb. . • .10 

Do. pudding . . . . • . . -.0 Ij^ 

Do. cabbage 1 

TT\ 

Sold for four girls' dinners, at Zd. each-— meat, pudding, cabbage 
divided into equal portions. 

The girls were very much pleased with their dinners. 



Queationa for Seventh Lesson. 

1. Why ought all meat to be dipped into hot water and wiped dry 

before it is either roasted or boiled? Why is it both dirty and 
dangerous to wrap up food in newspaper? 

2. How would you roast meat so that fJl its juices and flavouring 

matter, called osmazome, should be kept in the meat and not rufi 

out into the dripping pan ? 
8. A Yorkshire pudding is made of flour, eggs, and milk. TeU m» 

which of these foods are animal and which are vegetable foods? 
4. Whenever you have been able to practise any of the cooking taught 

at the lesson, give me a faithful account of how you succeeded, 

and also how you failed in your attempts. 



BODY WAfiMEBS AND FLESH FOKMEBS. 41 



ItBceipts for Seventh Lesson. 

YoBXSHiBB PuDDiKO. — 1 gill of milk ; 3 tablespoonfals of flonr ; 1 egg, 
and a pinch of salt. Put the salt and flour into a basin as for bread, make 
a hole in the centre, and gradually stir enough of the gill of milk to make 
the flour into a very smooth paste ; break the egg into a basin. When it 
has been well beaten, add it to the paste and the remainder of the milk. 
The whole pudding should then be mixed up very quickly together, and 
poured into the hot greased tin and put on the bottom of the oven for 
three minutes ; then place it under the roast meat until cooked. 



EIGHTH LESSON. 

COOKING—coniinued, 

BAKED 6TUFFBD HADDOCK, — SUBT PUDDIKa WITH CUBRANTS OB BAISHTS 
AUD BAKBD POTATOES — DIBBCTIONS AB0X7T PUDDING OLOTE, BODY 
WABMEBS AND ELE8H FOBKEBS. 

The last dinner we cooked consisted of roast beef and York- 
shire pndding and a cabbage. That dinner cost le, 2^. We 
will have a cheaper one to-day ; a baked staffed haddock, snet 
padding, and baked potatoes. I bongbt everything yesterday ; 
I also considered for some time before I went to the market. 
First, I remembered that it is winter time, and that I mast, 
therefore, have a hot dinner, and take care that the foods I 
am going to cook shall contain animal and vegetable * body- 
warmers,* that will make &>t to keep the body warm. We 
are working people, and my boys want as much food as their 
&ther, if not more. A working-man onght to eat more ' body- 
warmers * than * flesh-formers,' becanse he gets hot by work- 
ing, and the heat he makes in his body will melt a good deal 
of the fat that covers his bones. It is said that a working- 
man will bam seven ounces of this &t in a day ; if he melts 
too mach he will grow cold, very weak, and thin. The fat he 
melts passes off throagh his skin in sweat. Of coarse he most 
also have a good quantity of food that will make this flesh, 
nerves, and mascle. 

The dinner I fixed on is a baked haddock, snet padding, 



42 EIGHTH LESSON. 

with ctutants, and baked potatoes. The children shall each 
have a large piece of good bread, and then I think they wiU 
all have foods that will nonrish their flesh, make them fat, and 
strengthen their bones. I always go to the most respectaUe 
shopkeepers and buy the best, because the best contains the 
most nourishment, and therefore is the cheapest. The best 
foods are also the cheapest, because they are in season, and 
therefore very plentiful. There is a proper time of year for 
every kind of animal and vegetable food — for instance, eggs are 
very dear in winter, because hens don't lay at that time ; thej 
begin to lay in the spring, and then they are very good and 
plentiM. Oranges are cheap and good in the early spring, but 
in the autunm they are bad and dear. Fishmongers can sell 
any fish cheap when it is in season. Salmon is so scarce at 
Christmas time that people have paid as much as lOs. per 
pound for it, and after all it would not taste as good as it does 
in the spring, when it is only l^. 6d. per pound. Haddocks 
are now in season, and I therefore bought this large one for 
6(2. The flesh of fish, though it is white, will turn into flesh, 
nerves, and muscles in the body, just as red meat, beef, and 
mutton, do. As there is not so much fisbt in a fish as there 
is in butcher's meat, I bought suet, which is an animal's fat, 
and is suitable for those who are working hard. I shall 
make a stuffing with the suet, as well as use it for the pudding. 
The sugar in the pudding will turn into fskt; children like 
sugar, but cannot eat much animal fisbt ; children should eat a 
good deal of sugar at their meals. The bread will feed their 
flesh and bones and also make fat, because of the starch 
there is in bread, which turns into fat. We must always 
have a fresh vegetable to make the blood pure, as I will ex- 
plain at another lecture. 

Now we will begin to prepare the foods which are all ready 
so that we can see them. As the suet pudding will take the 
longest time, we will now begin to chop the suet ; bat first 
we must take off any bits of skin. You must learn to chop 
food properly ; hold the handle of the knife in your left hand 
quite steady, and lift the blade with the other in tliis viray. 
Suet should be very finely chopped ; a little flour should be 
sprinkled over it while it is being chopped to prevent the pieces 



St£T PUDDING AKD BAKED HADDOCK. 43 

from sticking together. If they do the paste will be sad, not 
light. The currants mnst be washed. I have arranged that 
half of jon should wash currants, and the other half chop suet ; 
as we have so many cooks the pudding will soon be ready. 

Srtet Pvddmg with either Gurrants or Baisi/ns, — 3 oz. of 
finely chopped suet, ^ lb. of flour, ^ lb. of clean, dry raisins or 
currants, 2 oz. of sugar, pinch of salt. All these ingredients 
are to be mixed together with sufficient cold milk or water to 
make into a rather stiff paste ; tie up in a cloth which has 
been dipped in hot water and then sprinkled over with flour ; 
boil at least two hours. A plate should be put under the 
pudding, and the pudding be kept well covered with boiling 
water. 

Directions for pudding cloth on page 44. 

Now that our pudding is on the fire we must clean the 
fish. I have placed, you see, a piece of paper over the table, 
so that there may be no mess made ; we must not only be 
very clean, but very orderly. I shall notice which of you do 
your work the best. Fish not thoroughly well washed has 
been known to make people very ill. When the inside has 
been taken out, wash the fish well, particularly about the 
mouth and head, as the mouth may contain some bad food 
that the fish has been eating ; eels and crabs eat anything they 
find. Give fish at least two waters. In fresh fish the eyes 
look full and bright ; the eyes of stale fish look dull ; the g^ls 
must be a bright pink, not a dork dull red. I will tell you 
more about fish when you learn to fry it. Before we prepare 
any other food we will wash our hands. The stuffing must 
now be made, just enough to fill the inside of the fish ; look 
well at the space to be filled that we may not make too 
much stuffing. We chopped enough suet when we made the 
pudding, so we shall only have to chop the parsley ; it should 
be well washed in cold water. No vegetables should stand in 
water for more than two or three minutes. Then chop the 
parsley as you were taught to chop the suet. 

Stuffing for Baked Haddock. — 2 oz. of suet, 3 oz. of 
bread crumbs, I teaspoonfnl of chopped parsley, pepper and 
salt to taste ; 1 egg is to be well beaten, to which add about 
2 tablespoonf uls of either milk or water, then mix all the inr 



44 filQHTH LSSSON. 

gredients together. Fill the haddock with this staffing and 
close the opening with a skewer (some people sew it up) ; 
bake one hour, baste well with dripping. 

Fill the inside of the fish with the stuffing, and put it into 
the dish, the inside of which must be greased with a little 
dripping. The haddock will be weU cooked in about an 
hour. 

The potatoes we require for baking. A baked potato must 
never be cooked in a cold oven, as when cooked it should be 
quite crisp but not burnt. The oven should be so hot that 
flour will turn brown as it did for bread-baking. The potato 
skin contains cork, such as you put in bottles to prevent water 
from coming out. A small piece of cork swells very big in 
the stomach. You must never eat the potato skin. A baked 
potato is more digestible than if boiled ; it digests in much 
less time than a boiled one. A roasted potato digests in two 
hours, a boiled one in three hours and a half. The corky 
skin keeps in all the juices (like the egg shell), and the juices 
help the food to digest. 

We shall now wash up very quickly, as we can divide 
the work. First, take the inside of the fish, except the liver, 
which will feed the cat, the skin o£P the suet, and the potato 
peelings, and put them under the grate ; cover them over with 
hot ashes, and brush them quite to the back ; after an hour 
the hot ashes will have taken away any smell, so that when 
you make up the fire you can throw these things on the back 
of the fire, when they will burn and feed the fire as coals do. 
I shall only let you bum what cannot be eaten, or thrown into 
the swill-tub. People should never keep a swill-tub nnless 
they have a pig, and an outhouse. 

Directions for Boiling a Pudding and the beat msthod 
of washing amd drying a Pvdding Cloth. 

A pudding should always be put into boiling water, and 
then only allowed to simmer ; the water must be some inches 
above the top of the pudding, lest it should simmer away and 
leave the pudding uncovered ; an old plate chipped at the 
edges should be kept to place at the bottom of the pan to pre- 



PUDPINO CLOTHS. 



45 



vent the pudding from sticking. Directly the clotli is taken 
off it should be pnt to soak in water, then well washed in hot 
wafcer and soda (never soap), well rinsed in clean water, 
and pnt out of doors, whether it be wet or dry, as no cloth 
will be qnite sweet unless it has had plenty of fresh air ; care 
must be taken to keep it in a dry place when it is folded up 
ready to put by, A pudding cloth will stick to the pudding 
unless, just before it covers the pudding, it is first dipped into 
boiling water, squeezed dry, and sprinkled over with a little 
flour. Harding is the best material for a pudding cloth, 
it costs 5(2. per yard ; a yard will make two good-sized ones. 

Notes, — Girls can be chopping small quantities of suet and 
parsley, as the methods are the same. 

As the girls like to buy the food, they should be told the 
previous week what the dinner of the following week is to' be, 
and then they can bring baskets and their money, &c. 



Ingredients JReqwred, 



Fish. 
Suet. 
EEirsley. 
Salt. 



Floup. 
Currants. 
Sugar. 
Potatoes. 



Apparatus. 

Slate, on which the dinner for the day is written. 
No. 5 Sheet, about working-men and * body-warmers.' 
No. 6 Sheet, with * body- warmers ' and * flesh-warmers.' 
Bought and sold for one week ; following week the same. 
The haddock was divided into three twopenn3rworths for each girl that 
wanted to buy, and two potatoes roasted and a little brown sauce. This 
was sold to three girls; the same girls had each one pennyworth of 
pudding ; what was left of the pudding was sold in pennyworths with a 
little sugar sprinkled over. * 

Baked Stuffed Haddockj Currant and Suet Pudding, 





Cost 


8, d. 


Sol( 


L «. d. 


Monday 




. 1 2 


Monday 


. 10 


Tuesday 




. 1 1 


Tuesday 


. 0. 8 


Wednesday 




. 1 


Wednesday . 


. 8 


Thursday . 




. 10 


Thursday . 


. 8 


Friday 




, 10 
4 11 


Friday 


. 8 
3 6 



46 NINTH LESSON. 

8, d. 

Money expenses 4 11 

Money receired 8 6 

Balance due 15 

Questions for Eighth Lesson, 

1. Why do men and boys who work hard require a good deal of food 

that makes fat, called ' body-warmers * ? 

2. The suet pudding and stuffing contain the following foods — suet, 

sugar, flour. Tell me which of these foods will make &t, called 
' body warmers' ? Why will flour make &t, flesh, and bone ? 

3. How would you clean a pudding cloth, and where would you put it 

when it was washed ? 

4. What would you do with the inside of the fish, the skin off the suet 

and the baked skins of the potatoes? 

Receipts for Eighth Lesson. 

SUBT PUDDIKO WITH EITHBB CuBRANTS OB BAISINS. 8 01. of 

finely-chopped suet, | lb. of flour, ^ lb. of dean, dry raisins or currants, 
2 oz. of sugar, pinch of salt. All these ingredients are to be mixed to- 
gether with sufficient cold milk or water to make into a rather stiflT paste; 
tie up in a doth which has been dipped in hot water and then sprinkled 
over with flour ; boil at least two hours. A plate should be put under the 
pudding and the pudding be kept well coyered with boiling water. 

SrxjFFiNa FOR Baxed Haddock. — 2 oz. of suet, 3 os. of bread crumbs, 
1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley, pepper and salt to taste. 1 egg is to be 
well beaten, to which add about 2 tablespoonftils of either milk or water, 
then mix all the ingredients together. Fill the haddock with this stuffing 
and dose the opening with a skewer (some people sew it up) ; bake one 
hour, baste well with dripping. 



NINTH LESSON. 

CO OKER Y— continued. 

BOIUID TBXFB, ONIOM 8AX7CB — ^PBBSBBTB TUBNOTSBS — CLABIFT DJUPPIXO. 

Tbipe is very digestible animal food if it is quite fresh, the 
coarse fat cut o£P, and the tripe thoroughly well cooked. I have 
bought one pound ready dressed, which we will first weigh 
and then wash. As we wish to keep in all the flayour and 



TEIPB. 47 

juices, and make the meat look white, we must put it into 
boiling water, with a enp of skim milk ; the milk will make 
the tripe white, and by boiling five minutes the albnmen on 
the ontside will be hardened and the juices kept in; after 
that time the pan must hang on the recon, where it will be 
kept simmering until the meat is well done, which will be in 
about an hour and a quarter. Tripe that has not been dressed 
requires nearly double that time. When the onions for the 
sauce are peeled they shall be put into a pan well covered 
over with boiling water, a little salt added, and allowed to 
cook slowly for an hour until they are tender. Bemember an 
old hnife must be kept entirely for peeling onions. A cook is 
both dirty and careless who uses a knife to cut any kind of 
food after it has once cut an onion, and who does not wash 
her hands before she touches any other food. 

Onion Sauce, — First boil 3 onions, then chop finely, 
add 1 pint of boiling milk that has been thickened with a 
teaspoonfol of flour, flavour with pepper and salt, and simmer 
altogether for five minutes. 

Olarifying Driving, — Pour boiling water into the basin 
that contains the dripping, and stir the water and dripping up 
well together, then let it remain until cold. Then take ofE the 
cake, and put into a jar just to melt in the oven. When the 
dripping cake is cold it will be very clean, and keep for some 
time, as the second melting down, or rendering, as it is called, 
has sent out all the water. Fat that rises on water in which 
beef, mutton, or veal has been boiled, should be clarified in the 
same way. 

Sofliov/ry Fvddmg, — 3 oz. of bread, 3 oz. of oatmeal, 3 oz. 
of suet, 1 teaspoonful or 6 leaves of sage, 3 large onions, 1 eggy 
and 1 gill of milk. Soak the bread in the milk until quite 
soft, boil the onions in plenty of water ; when tender chop 
them up very fine ; the suet also must be chopped very fine ; 
then add them to the soaked bread with the oatmeal. Mix all 
the ingredients well together. Just before putting the pudding 
into the oven, add the egg well beaten, pepper and salt to 
taate. Put an ounce of dripping into the pudding tin, make 
it hot before you pour the pudding in ; bake three-quarters of 
an hour. 



48 NINTH LESSON. 

Yoa are now going to learn how to make and bal^e 
dripping pastry. Watch all I do, and try and remember all 
I say, as I intend that each of you shall make a jam turnover 
at the next lesson. It is mnch more difficult to make light 
pastry in hot than in cold weather, because the cook's hot 
hands and the hot air of the room melt the fat, whether it be 
dripping, suet, or butter, so that it sticks to the flour and 
makes a gluey heavy substance instead of a light paste. The 
cook's hot hands, the rolling pin and paste-board, all get sticky, 
and are constantly obliged to be sprinkled over with fresh 
flour ; the paste then becomes too stiff. A cook always makes 
her pastry in a cool room, and if her master is rich will make 
it on a marble instead of a wooden paste-board. A large clean 
slate or a tile ofE a house does as well. The quantities of flour, 
dripping, and water we shall require must now be measured. 
To one pound of flour we put four ounces of dripping, and 
always mix one pound of flour with rather less than a gill of 
cold water. This basin you remember just holds one pound 
of flour, this mug one gill, and this tablespoon one ounce. 
Lest the flour should not be quite dry I put it in a basin on 
the top of the oven for a short time ; if the flour were the 
least damp the pastry could not be light. This dripping looks 
very white because it has been nicely clarified, and it will taste 
as sweet as it looks. Bub the flour and dripping gently toge- 
ther, when this is done make a little hole in the oentre, pour 
the water in gradually, and mix all together with the cool 
blade of a very clean knife. Before the paste is put on the 
pasteboard just sprinkle a little flour over it, and the rolling 
pin as well ; knead the paste lightly, and do not press heavily 
on the rolling pin. When the paste is rolled out to the thick- 
ness of an inch cut it out into round shapes with a small plate ; 
the jam should then be put on half the round oake» the edges 
just wetted with a little water, and the other half be turned 
over the jam, and the edges be pressed together. The lightest 
and best pastry will be made heavy if the heat of the oven is 
not exactly right ; if too ccUd the paste won't rise up, and if 
too hot it will be burnt. If there is no thermometer in the 
oven, sprinkle a pinch of flour on the bottom shelf, as yon did 
in bread-baking: if the flour turns a nice brown in a f^^ 



DSIPPING PASTRY. 49 

seconds the heat will do ; 4/00^ shotdd be the heat by a ther- 
mometer. Remember to put the paste on the bottom shelf for 
five minutes, and then put it on the top one to get brown, as 
jou did with the bread. 

We will now clarify this dripping. Clarify is a long word, 
which means to make clear or clean. Dripping which drops 
from clean meat which has been washed will not contain dirt, 
only bits of the outside of the meat or cinders that have fallen 
into it, because the dripping pan was put too near the fire. 
Dripping is made clear*by pouring boiling water over it in a 
basin, and by stirring the water and dripping together with a 
spoon. When the dripping has become quite cold, it forms a 
hard cake and rises to the top of the water, because dnpping 
is &it, and fat or oil is much lighter than water, and will 
therefore float on the top of it, just as a piece of wood will 
float. I have some oil and water in this bottle, and you can 
see how the oil rests on the top. You might try and mix 
them together for ever, but they would separate when the 
bottle had remained still for a short time. 

* The little bits of dirt or cinder are heavier than the &bt or 
water, and therefore sink to the bottom of the water in the 
basin. The dripping cake must be put into a jar in the oven 
until melted, to send out the water in the fat, or it will not 
keep. Dripping should be kept in a cool place, and it will 
then be good for some time. Dripping prepared in the way 
directed is the most nourishing fat next to butter. 

The following information is to be given when tripe is not 
to be got. A small joint of pork should be roasfced, and a 
savoury pudding made. Pork, and all flesh of the pig, requires 
to be cooked very slowly and well, because sometimes a little 
creature lives in the flesh called 'Trichina.' The German 
and Russian people suffer very much from a dreadful com- 
plaint because they have the bad custom of eating pork and 
ham that has not beeu cooked, only salted, dried and smoked. 
These creatures are killed by boiling water, or the heat of an 
oven which is 400°, or by roasting the meat thoroughly and 
slowly before a Are. We are going to roast a small joint 
of pork and make a savoury pudding. We will first put 
the pork, that weighs 2 lbs., very close to the fire for ten 

s 



50 NINTH LESSON. 

minates, and then draw it away and let it have half an hour 
for each ponnd. 

Questions for Ninth Lesson. 

1 Why is a pie-cru8t or any kind of pastry very sad and toiyh vhen 
it is made in a hot room and by a cook who has hot hands ? 

2. Why is pastry not Ught when it is made by a cook who presses the 

rolling pin down heavily on to the paste? . ^, . , , 

3. How Wd yon find out that the oven was the right heat for 

baking pastry? , . .^ . ^ • - 

4 WhenT^k deans or clarifies dripping she puts it into a basin 
■ and pours boiUng water over it, and stirs the water and dnpping 
weU together. TeU me why the dripping rises to the top of the 
water, and the dirt fells to the bottom of the basin. 

Receipts for Ninth Lesson. 

OKiOK SAUdc-Pirst boil 3 onions, or about 1 lb. in suffident water 
until under, then chop finely; make a sauce of 1 pint of boihi^ milk 
^i^kened with a tablespoonful of flour, season witii pepper and wdt; add 
hlonions to the sauce, and simmer altogether for five minntes. 

CilEiFnNO DBiPPiKO.-Pour boiling water into the basm that contuns 
the dripping, and stir the water and dripping up weU together, then let it 
reLin unS cold. Then take off the cake, and put it mto a jar just to 
"St in the oven. When the dripping cake is cold it will be very dean. 
Td keep for some time, as the second melting down, or rendering. a« rt .* 
wiled L> sent out aU the water. Fat that rises on water in which beef, 
muttok or veal has been boiled should be darifled in the same way. 

SAVOUKY P1IDDIK0.-3 o^ of bread, 3 oz. of oatmeal, 3 o». of suetj 1 tea- 
spoonftd or 6 leaves of sage, 3 large onions, 1 egg and 1 giU of mlk 
&^ the bread in the milk until quite soft, boil the onions in pl««tyof 
wTter- when tender chop them up very fine ; the suet also must be dbopped 
reXT^^n «ld them to the soaked bread with the oatmeaL M« all 
^ingredients wdl together. Just before putting the pudding into the 
c^en. Sd the egg weU beaten, pepper and salt to taste. Put an ounce of 
S-g i»to the pudding tin, make it hot before you pour the pudding ,n. 
bake three-quarters of an hour. 



MINERAL FO0D& 51 



TENTH LESSON. 

CO OKING—coniinued. 

DINNBB TO-DAT: — ^MEAT AMD POTATO FIB — COBNISK FASTIBS— SCATTERKD 

BICB. 

I HAVE often told yon that we mnst eat every day foods called 
^ body-warmers ' and ' flesli-f ormers ' that will make the &t 
and flesh which cover onr bones. Animal foods and vege- 
table foods contain the same things, bnt certain things are 
f onnd in much greater quantities in one than in the other ; 
for instance, all animal foods have water and some minerals, 
bnt green vegetables, snch as potatoes, cabbages, Ac. have a 
great deal more water and minerals. These bottles contain the 
quantity of water, minerals, and other substances which there 
are in a pound of meat. In this row of bottles you will see 
the quantity of water, minerals, and other substances which 
there are in a pound of potatoes. Potatoes, you see, have 
nearly twice the quantify of both water and minerals. Iron, 
lime, phosphorus, and potassium are minerals. Minerals are 
hard substances which are dug out of the earth ; men and 
animab cannot eat them ; but vegetables grow in the earth, 
and their little roots suck up water that contains minerals. 
Harrogate wat^r contains a great deal of iron, sulphur, and 
other minerals; people go to Harrogate who suffer from 
scurvy and skin diseases to drink these waters. We boil 
potatoes with their skins on to keep in the water and all the 
good things which are mixed up in the water ; but, however 
carefully we cook meat and vegetables, the heat that comes out 
in steam takes away some of them. We cannot eat any kind 
of meat, except an egg or an oyster, without cooking ; but we 
can eat some vegetables raw, such as lettuce, water-cresses, 
radishes, onions, celery, and mustard and cress ; fruit of all 
kinds, oranges, apples, lemons, &c., — all these contain nearly 
the same quantity of water and minerals that the potato 
does, and keep the blood pure. Our sailors, about 100 years 
ago, used to die of scurvy by thousands when they went long 

b2 



bi .TENTH LESSON. 

voyages and liad no potatoes or any fresh vegetables or fruit. 
Now the Government oblige the captains of all vessels to take 
lemon-juice, that contains a great deal of a mineral food called 
'potash/ which sailors take daily; of course potatoes, fresh 
vegetables, or fruit are much better than lemon juice. Yon 
may fancy how terribly sailors suffered by the following ac- 
count, written by Dr. Guy of London : — 

' Bound blotches came under the skin, called " purples." 
The blood ran into the flesh and made the limbs pamfdl and 
stiff. The blood-vessels were so weak that they broke with a 
touch. The gums swelled and became dark, the teeth grew 
loose and fell out of their sockets. The breath was bad, and 
^lood poured from the nostrils and eyes. The poor sufferer 
became so weak that he &,inted at the least exertion, and fell 
down dead in sight of his native land.' 

Dr. Chambers says he considers that the working people 
of England who live in large towns have bad teeth and 
breath and pale face^ because they eat so little fruit and 
fresh vegetables. The French people eat nearly twice as 
much fruit and vegetables as we do, and they manage to get 
a salad nearly all the year round. Any uncooked vegetables 
mixed together make what is called a salad. Onions chopped 
up fine and put on breads and butter are very good. In the 
winter everyone might get onions, and have a good quantity 
of pickled cabbage stored up ; nothing is better when water- 
cresses are not to be had. A cold cauliflower, slightly boiled, 
is good with a salad sauce over it. 

Receipt /or Salad Sauce. — Put the yoke of a hard-boiled 
egg in a basin, break it up fine with a wooden spoon, ad^ix^g 
a pinch of salt and a pinch of pepper, then keep stirring 
briskly while you pour in slowly two tablespoonfiilsof milk, 
cream, or sweet oil, then add one tablespoonful of vinegar 
and half a teaspoonful of mustard ; add a little sugar if liked 
instead of mustard. 

The French people cook their vegetables very well, and 
never let them be hard ; they also wash them with great care. 
The leaves of all vegetables contain more mineral matter than 
any other part. Vegetables should never be allowed to soak 
in water ; they should be gently and quickly washed in cold 



VEGETABLES. 53 

water, tlie leaves must not be the least crashed. The French 
people pnt their vegetables into a wire basket when cleaned, 
with holes to let ont the water, and hang it up, as it has a 
handle. Stale old vegetables are quite as unwholesome and 
dangerous to eat as putrid meat, but, unfortunately, they do 
not smell so badly ; a fresh vegetable does not feel soft and 
flabby. Gardeners can give old vegetables a fresh appearance 
by sprinkling water over them to make them swell out. 
People soon get to know the difference between these bad 
vegetables and fresh ones. There are some places in Oxford- 
shire where the labourers have a habit of eating lettnco nn- 
washed, and they suffer fr^m the round worm. A little salt 
kills sings, &o. Cabbages and cauliflowers should be washed 
in salt and water, as sings hide themselves between the leaves 
and cannot be got out. 

The dinner to-day is a potato pie and cold boiled rice ; the 
rice may be eaten with treacle, sugar, or preserved fruit and 
some cold milk, or with meat or gravy. This is a dinner I 
could prepare the night before, because I conld warm the 
pies up again. I mean to make some small pies called ' Gor^' 
nish pasties,' which will contain jnst what the big one does ; 
these pies will be ready for my son and daughter to take with 
them to school to-morrow, as they are teachers ; I hope they 
will be able to warm them up somewhere. I bought these 
scraps of meat last night for 6d. per ponnd. The batcher 
cut them off the outside of the best joints that had been 
hanging a few days. Batchers cut scraps off ham, pork, and 
all their good joints to make them a nice shape; they are 
qnite good and can be bought at M. per pound. Just dip 
them in hot water and make them clean ; you see the meat is 
both fat and lean, so that the pie shall contain ' body. warmers,' 
' flesh-formers,' and ' mineral foods ; ' the potatoes and onions 
will be the mineral food ; the crust will have flour and drip, 
ping. You learned how to make the pastry we are going to 
use for these pies at the last lesson. 

Receipt for Oomish Pasties, — Rub 2 oz. of clarified drip- 
ping into 4 oz. of floar, mix them together with 2^ table- 
tablespoonfuls or ^ of a gill of cold water; knead into 
a paste, then roll it out until it is the thickness of half 



54 TENTH LESSON. 

an inch, and line a small plate, tin, or saacer that has been 
mbbed with a little dripping. Toast a thin slice of either 
ham or lean bacon very alighHyj only enough to take away 
any raw taste, cut it np into pieces of half an inch ; next beat 
np one whole egg in a basin, then add two teaspoonfnls and a 
half of either skim milk, new milk, or cream to the egg, with 
a little pepper and salt, and then pat in the pieces of bacon ; 
mix all np well together, and fill the sancer with the mixture, 
and cover it over with a lid of the paste. Potatoes might 
be used instead of ^the ham, or mixed with it, or meat might 
be used of fish, flesh, or fowl. 

Preserve or fresh fruit Cornish pasties are very good. 

All these little pies will contain the three kinds of food 
we must eat daily to keep us strong and our skin healthy. 
The milk and eggs are most nourishing animal flesh-formers, 
the dripping is an animal body-warmer. The flour is a 
most nourishing vegetable flesh-former and body- warmer, as 
it contains starch and albumen. The potato is a mineral 
food because it has a great deal of potash. In the summer 
Cornish pasties, filled with fresh fruit, would be very non- 
rishing and good for the blood ; the flour in the crust would 
be a 'flesh-former,' and the dripping put into it a 'body- 
warmer.' All fresh fruits contain a great quantity of the 
mineral food, potash. 

Beceipt for Seattered Rice. — Boil until tender in boiling- 
water, then pour the water and rice into a sieve, shake the 
rice about for a short time on the sieve, and stir it with a fork 
to prevent the rice from sticking together. 



Meat. 
Suet. 



Ingredients Required, 

Flour. 
Dripping. 



Rice. 
Salad. 



Apparatus, 

Food collection, showing component parts of 1 lb. of flour, 1 lb. of meat, 
and 1 lb. of potatoes. 

No, 5 Sheet, with juices and component parts of meat, 



CORNISH PASTIES. — SCATTEBBD BICE. 55 



Questions for Tenth Lesson. 

1. In the winter, when there is no lettuce, mustard and cress, celery, 

water-cresses, &c., sometimes called ' mineral foods * because they 
contain minerals such as iron, lime, phosphorus, potassium, what 
uncooked vegetables could you eat that would do instead of these ? 

2. Why did an immense number of our poor sailors die of scurvy when 

they went long voyages about a hundred years ago ? 

3. Tell me how you could make either a meat, vegetable, or fruit 

Oomish pasty so that it should contain < body-warmers,' 'flesh^ 
formers,' and * mineral ' foods. 

4. How would you cook rice or macaroni so that it could be eaten 

with any kind of meat, or with milk and sugar, or with treacle 
alone? 

Receipts for Tenth Lesson. 

GoBNiSH Pasties, No. 1. — Bub 2 oz. of clarified dripping into 4 oz. of 
flour, mix them together with 2^ tablespoonfuls of cold water, knead 
into a paste, then roll it out until it is the thickness of half an inch, 
and line a small tin plate or saucer that has been« rubbed with a little 
dripping. Toast a thin slice of either ham or lean bacon very slightly, 
only enough to take away any raw taste ; cut it up into pieces of half an 
inch. Next beat up one whole egg in a basin, then add 2| tablespoonfuls 
of either skim milk, new milk, or cream to the egg, with a little 
pepper and salt, and then put in the pieces of bacon ; mix all up well 
together, and fill the saucer with the mixture and cover it over with a lid 
of the paste. Potatoes may be used instead of the ham or bacon or mixed 
with it, or the meat of fish, fiesh, or fowl might be used. These pasties 
can be made the same shape as turnovers if less liquid be used. 

CoBNiSH Pasties, No. 2. — ^To 1 lb. of flour, rub in J lb. of dripping, 
any kind will do, then mince a little bacon or ham along with any other 
kind of meat, and mix with the meat a little potato and onion ; season 
with pepper and salt to taste. Boll out the past^, put in the above, then 
place on a paste cover, and bake in a slow oven for twenty minutes. 

ScATTEBED EiCE. — 2 OZ. of ricc wcU Washed in cold water, then add 1 
quart of water, sinmier until tender in boiling water, then pour the rice 
and water into a sieve ; shake the rice about for a short time on the sieve, 
and stir it with a fork to prevent the rice from sticking together. 



56 BLIYENTH LESSON. 



ELEVENTH LESSON. 

COOKING'-continued. 
DimnsB: — ^fbied fish, plaicb — mashed potatoes — ^baked bice puddinq. 

Eyebt cook ought to know that when burnt fat is eaten, 
directly it enters the stomach it makes the most unwholesome 
of all acids called ' butyric acid,' which causes a gas or bad 
air to form that gives heartburn, pains under the shoulder, 
blades, and palpitation of the heart. Fat is a very difficult 
food to cook because it can be made twice as hot as boiling 
water ; water boils when the quicksilver rises up in the ther- 
mometer to 212°, but fat does not boil until it rises up to 
about 600*^ or 700°. When fat really boils it would bum a 
piece of fat or meat to ashes in a second, and yet all cookery 
books will tell you to take great care to make the fat boil in 
the frying-pan before you put in the fish or any food. The 
right heat that fat should be for frying any kind of food is 
350^. I hope that cooks will soon use the thermometer to 
find out the proper heat. The best way to find out without a 
thermometer is to put a piece of bread into the fat; if it 
becomes nicely browned in rather less than a minute, it will 
brown the food too. When fish, potatoes, or veal cutlets are 
put into the fat, let the fat remain at that heat (350^) for 
about five minutes, until both sides of the fish have become a 
g^d brown colour ; then either hang the frying-pan on the 
recon over the fire, or put it on the brig, or oven-top, when 
the fish can cook gradually in the fibt ; find out if it is done 
enough by lifting the flesh with a knife— if it leaves the bone 
readily it is done. Veal cutlets should cook slowly, as veal is 
very indigestible unless very well cooked. A frying-pan 
should be constantly moved about so long as the fat is 350° 
to prevent the food from sticking to the bottom of the pan, 
which it will instantly do if the pan is thin. The burnt &t in 
the pan will, of course, gradually sink into every part of 
the fish, veal, or potatoes, and make them very indigestible. 
A mutton chop or beefsteak oueht never to be put into a 



FBIED FISH. 57 

frying-pan. These two meats contain a great deal more fat 
than fish or veal ; if cooked in a frying-pan the fat covers the, 
outside and gets into the middle and makes the meat very fat 
and greasy ; no wonder that an invalid or a person with a 
weak digestion is made ill by snoh dishes. When a chop or 
beefsteak is put- on a gpridiron the outside gets hardened, all 
the juices are kept in, and the burnt &t drops into the fire. 
A frying-pan should be like ours, a thick iron one, and perfectly 
clean ; if the least speck of either old or burnt fat is left in, the 
fresh &t will be spoiled. 

The fish we are going to fry is a piece of plaice that costs 
4(2. to 6d. per pound ; it is good because it smells sweet and 
feels very firm when pressed with my finger. After it has 
been washed in this cold water it must be well wiped and 
have a little time to get perfectly dry ; unless it is quite dry 
it will not brown when it is fried. We will put two ounces of 
dripping into the pan and watch it carefally until it is the 
right heat ; the thermometer is up at 350°, and you see this 
piece of bread has become a beautiful brown. Just sprinkle a 
little fiour over the fish before you put it into the fat ; when 
the underside is brown we will turn it over ; now that both 
sides are sufficiently browned, the pan shall stand on the brig 
until the fish is done. Cooks generally beat up a whole egg, 
dip a brush into the egg and put it all over the fish or veal 
cutlets, then sprinkle fine bread crumbs over it ; the egg and 
bread crumbs stick together and get brown, if the fish is quite 
dry and fresh, but not without, though the fat is the right 
heat. 

Baked Bice Pudding. — ^We will now measure all the quan- 
tities W6 want for our baked rice pudding. Two tablespoon- 
fuls of rice (the same as 2 oz.), 1 pint of either milk or water, 
or half milk and water, 1 tablespoonful frill of finest chopped 
suet (1 oz.), 1 tablespoonful of brown sugar (1 oz.) ; the rice 
must be twice' well washed in cold water, and then put into a 
pie-dish ; the milk, sugar, and suet can then be added to the 
rice, and all be well stirred up together ; the pudding ought 
to be baked very slowly, three hours is not too much ; the 
heat' of the oven ought not to be more than 212°. 

Nothing is more indigestible for i^ weali^ stoiqacb thm 



58 ELEVENTH LESSON. 

eggs which have been put into a pudding and baked, because 
the albnmen in the egg gets very hard and is said to be as 
difficult to digest as leather. When new milk can be got to 
put into the pudding, neither suet nor butter need be added ; 
suet is added when water is mixed with the milk. 

Mashed Potatoes, — We will now measure what we want to 
make one dish of mashed potatoes. 1 lb. of mashed potatoes 
require 1 oz. of dripping, 2 tablespoonfuls of milk (the milk 
is not necessary). Boil the potatoes in their skins, when 
done take them out of the pan, let them stand by the fire just 
to get dry, then peel them, put them back into the pan and 
beat them well up with a potato-crusher or large fork ; the 
dripping and a little salt can then be added, and when all has 
been well mixed up together, and become very hot, put the 
mash into a dish, and just draw the fork lightly across the 
top to make it look rough. 

The dinner to-day wUl give my family plenty of animal 
and vegetable body- warmers, flesh-formers, and niineral foods. 

Questions for Eleventh Lesson, 

1. How would you find out the proper heat of fiit to fry either fish. 

veal, or potatoes, so that they should have a beautiful brown 
colour ? Ought the fat to boil ? 

2. Why is fried mutton chop or beefsteak very unwholesome and in- 

digestible for an invalid or a person who has a weak stomach ? 
Why ought these two meats to be cooked on a gridiron ? 

3. Why are eggs indigestible in a baked rice pudding ? 

Receipts for Eleventh Lesson. 

Baked Bicb FxTDDma. — 2 tablespoonfuls of rice (2 oz.); 1 pint of 
either milk or water, or half water and half milk ; 1 teaspoonful of finest 
chopped suet; 1 tablespoonful of brown sugar (1 oz.). The rice must be 
twice well washed in cold water, and then put into a pie-dish ; the milk, 
sugar, and suet can then be added to the rice, and all well stirred up 
together ; the pudding ought to be baked very slowly, three hours is not too 
much; the heat of the oven ought not to be more than 212°. Nothing 
is more indigestible for a weak stomach than eggs which have been put 
into a pudding and baked, because the albumen in .the egg gets reiy hud. 
and is said to be as difficult to digest as leather. When new milk can 
be got to put into the pudding, neither suet nor butter need be added ; snel 
is added when water is mixed with the milkf 



MILK. 59 

Full directions are given for frying flsh and real cntlets at page 67. 

Fbt Plaicb without Bbhad-crumbs and Ego. — Dip in clean cold 
water and wipe very dry, and hang up in a current of fresh air if there is 
time, sprinkle it over with a little fiour, put 2 oz. of dripping into the clean 
frying-pan and melt until a piece of bread turns a nice brown in about a 
minute, or the thermometer rises to 850° ; the fish should then be put in 
the pan, and turned when the under part looks brown ; when the two sides 
are brown the frying-pan must be put on the hot oven-top, where the fish 
can oook slowly until the flesh leaves the bone when a knife is put between 
the flesh and bone. 

Mashbd Potatoes. — 1 lb. of potatoes, ^ oz. of dripping or butter, 2 
tablespoonfuls of milk (the milk is not necessary). Boil the potatoes in 
their skins ; when done take them out of the pan, let them stand by the 
fire just to get dry, then peel them and put them back into the pan ; beat 
them up with a potato-crusher or large fork ; the dripping and a little salt 
can then be added, and when all has been well mixed up together, and 
become very hot, put the mash into a dish, and just draw the fork lightly 
acrofig the top to make it look rough. 



TWELFTH LESSON. 

CO OKER Y—^xmtinued, 

FOODS FOB AN INVALID WHO IS NOT ALLOWED TO TAKE SOLID FOOD OB IS 
8UFFEBINO FBOM A FEVBB : MILK — BBBF-TBA — GBIJEL — BARLEY WATER. 

If you are nursing patients suffering from the following com- 
plaints, called fevers — small-pox, chicken-pox, measles^ scar- 
latina, typhns, enteric or gastric fever, yellow fever, relapsing, 
remittent, cholera, mumps and influenza, you may give them 
the following foods : milk, beef tea, &c. 

Milk is an animal food, and is the most nourishing of all 
foods, because it contains every substance that is to be found 
in aninial or vegetable foods. 

In these bottles there are exact quantities of the principal 
substances contained in one pint of new milk. Starch and all 
those things that make fat are placed together and called 
' body-warmers.' Albumen and all that make flesh, nerves, 
and muscle, are aU put together and called ' flesh-formers,' 
and iron, potash, &c., which are called mineral foods, are all 
arranged in these small bottles. Mother's milk and cow's 



60 TWELFTH LESSON. 

milk are almost exactly the same ; thongh milk contains snch 
a great variety of foods, the most delicate infant can live 
entirely npon it, because the right proportions of all these dif- 
ferent substances have been mixed together with the right 
quantity of water, and because when the little infant takes it 
from its mother it is properly cooked by about 100** of 
heat. 

An ignorant cook would boil milk at 212^ and spoil the 
delicate flavour, harden the albumen, and send out some of the 
substances in the steam. Grown-up people suffering from 
fever, or who have a delicate stomach, can sometimes drink 
cold or new milk, when any other food would directly make 
them sick. 

Doctors now consider it is more important to g^ve their 
patients milk than any other food ; they often order a nurse 
to give a quart and a half in a day to persons who are 
suffering &om any of the following complaints called f overs— 
small.pox, chicken-pox, measles, scarlatina, typhus, enteric or 
gastric fever, yellow fever, relapsing, remittent, cholera, 
mumps, influenza. They also order a nurse to g^ve the 
strongest beef-tea, which you are going to prepare to-day. 
Beef is the butcher's meat always chosen to make tea for 
people who are very weak and have delicate digestions and 
nerves, because it contains more flavouring matter called 
osmazome than any other meat. There is very little 
osmazome in white meat, such as veal, lamb, fish. Mutton has 
a good deal, but not so much as beef. I will suppose that 
some one is ill and requires the strongest beef -tea as quickly 
as possible. The tea must therefore be made of the same 
weight of beef and water. As I want a pint of tea I bonght one 
pound of the best lean beef. After I have taken off every bit oi 
fat and skin, and cut it up into pieces of about an inch sqnaret 
I shall let it stand one hour in the pint of water, which must 
be cold, because I know cold water can draw out all the juices 
from the meat if it remains in long enough. I also know 
that I must not let the tea boil at 212*^ or the flavour is 
spoiled and the albumen hardened. How can I cook so that 
I shall be sure it cannot boil (for I am a poor woman, lar too 
busy to watch the pot the whole time it is on the fire or in 



BEEF-TBA. 61 

the oyejx) P< Fortanatelj, I know that if I coyer the jar of 
beef-tea and put it into a pan of boiling water, which is 
either boiling on the fire or in the bven, the beef- tea in the jar 
cannot boil if it is left there for ever, only cook gently or 
simmer at abont 180°. 

The only thing I mnst do is to take care to keep the water 
which snrromids the jar boiling, and keep pntting in more 
water, lest the water should all boil away and the pan get 
burnt, either on the fire or in the oven. Everybody shonld be 
tanght this scientific fact, that no food can be brought up to 
boiling point in a pan or jar that is surrounded by boiling 
water. Double saucepans are sold on purpose for cooking 
castards, because a custard is spoiled directly it boils. A little 
pan or jar put into a larger one serves the same purpose. 
There is in this bottle some beef -tea that I made this morning ; 
it contains the same quantity of meat and water that we have 
just used. The beef stood for an hour in cold water, and 
then it was put into a pan of boiling water for one hour. 
Beef tea ought never to form a jelly when it is cold ; thi^ is 
cold, but quite dear and thin. Here is some beef-tea in 
aoiother bottle that was made at the same time, with the same 
quantity of meat and water. The only difEerenoe is, that the 
meat was put into boiling water and boiled for one hour ; you 
see what a small quantity, only a third as much as there is in 
the other bottle, and the flavour is very poor. 

Dr. Chambers says that if sick persons during their illness 
were given plenty of milk, one quart and a half during the 
day, and some good beef -tea, they would not die while they 
are in the fever from starvation, nor after they had lost the 
fever from weakness, because they had become too thin to 
recover. During the fever the blood is not only much hotter 
than it is when we are in health, but it flies much more 
quickly to every part of the body, and gradually bums up 
the £ftt and causes the flesh, nerves and muscles to waste 
away. Some nurses think that people who have fevers should 
cot have much food, and that strong beef-tea that has been 
l)oiled and become a stiff jelly is all the food that ought to be 
^yen them. They would not think this if they understood 
that the beef-tea only feeds the flesh and that the poor patient 



62 TWELFTH LESSON. 

is dying because the other parts of the body are being burned 
np. Milk contains a great deal of mineral food which pnrifies 
the poisoned blood, and also feeds the fat. 

A nurse should always write down on a piece of paper 
the exact quantity of food she has given the patient dnring 
the day, and mention the exact time when she gave it, so 
that the doctor can quickly gain a clear account of all that 
has been done during his absence. The air of a sick room, 
however well ventilated, will contain a great deal of the 
breath of the sick person, in which there must be some of the 
horrid germs that are causing the fever or any disease. If 
water, milk, or any food is left uncovered, the bad air viust 
get into it. Germs grow quickly in milk. Take care always 
to cover water and everything with a plate or a sancer, and do 
not keep more food than you want in the room, and do not let 
anyone in the house eat the food when it is taken out of the 
room. If the persons are very weak, do not let them sit up in 
bed to eat the food, but give it them in a little covered cup 
like this, which can be put into the mouth without letting the 
food run over the bed-clothes; wash it and every utensil 
directly it has been used in a little boiling water. Every sick- 
room ought to have a little kettle. Be sure never to give the 
medicine out of the feedmg'Cup, A nurse should think the day 
before how much beef -tea and milk she will require. If a pine 
or gill, she will require the same weight of beef. The beef 
ought to be cut up and put into the cold water, sa that the 
juices will all come out during the night, and be ready to cook 
in the morning. 

We will now learn how to make barley water. Two ounces 
of pearl barley is enough to make one quart of barley water 
as a drink to quench thirst, for which only is it given, as it is 
not a nourishing food. The two ounces should be washed in 
cold water, then they should be boiled for five minutes in 
another water, which, like the first, must be thrown away. 
Two quarts of boiling water must then be added, and the 
barley allowed to boil until the water is reduced to only one 
quart ; cut some very thin slices off the outside of a lemon to 
flavour the barley water, squeeze out some juice through 
either a piece of muslin or a sieve to prevent the pips from 



BEEF-TEA, BABLET WATEB, GBUEL. 63 

falliiig in, and add sugar to taste. The barley water ought 
not to be strained unless the sick person particxilarly wishes 
this to be done. 

MiVc Oruel, — As gruel is much more nourishing made with 

milk, I will give the receipt used in the Children's Hospital. 
Gidts are the best. Grits, ^ oz. ; water, | oz. ; milk, ^ pint 
sugar, ^ oz. 

Water Oruel. — Mix 1 large tablespoonful of oatmeal into 
a smooth paste with a little cold water, pour in (mixing all the 
time) a pint of boiling water, boil for ten minutes, stirring as 
before, and strain. It may be eaten with salt or sugar, according 
to taste. 

Questions for Twelfth Lesson. 

1. Why do doctors order a nurse to gire new milk and beef-tea to a 

person who is saffering from a fever, or any of the following com- 
plaints, which are all called fevers — small-pox, chicken-pox, 
measles, scarlatina, typhus, enteric or gastric fever, yellow fever, 
relapsing, remittent, cholera, mumps, and influenza ? 

2. Why would a person in a fever be starved or pined if the nurse only 

gave him beef-tea ? 

3. The strongest beef-tea is made with the same weight of water and 

beef. How would you make a pint of beef-tea so that none of its 
juices and flavouring matter called osmazome should be wasted ? 

4. By what means could you cook food in a saucepan or jar and pre- 

vent the food from ever boiling at 212 degrees? 

Receipts for Twelfth Lesson. 

BiSBF Tea, the Stbonoest. — 1 lb. of lean beef, remove all skin and 
gristle, cut up to the size of an inch, cover over in jar with 1 pint of cold 
water and a pinch of salt ; let it stand for one hour, then put the jar into a 
pan of boiling water, either on the fire or in the oven, for one or two hours ; 
the water in the pan must be kept boiling. If an egg is ordered to be 
added to the beef-tea, it must be beaten up and added when the tea is taken 
oflT the fire ; if put in and allowed to boil, the egg would crack. 

Babuet Water. — 2 oz. of pearl barley to be well washed in cold 
water, then boiled fDr five minutes in another water ; this water must be 
thrown away; 2 quarts of boiling water must then be added, and the barley 
allowed to simmer until the water is reduced to 1 quart ; cut some very 
thin slices off the outside of a lemon to flavour the barley water, squeeze 
out some of the juice through either a sieve or a piece of muslin ; add sugar 
to taste. The barley water ought not to be strained unless the sick person 
partioularly wishes this to be done. 



64 THIBTEENTH LESSON. 

Mux Gbuel. — i OB. of grit8» i pint of water, } pint of milk (the milk 
and water together makes a pint), ^ oe. of sugar. 

Watbb Gruel. — Mix 1 laige tablespoonfdl of oatmeal into a smooth 
paste, with a little cold water. Pour in (mixing all the time) a pint of 
boiling water, boil for ten minutes, stirring as before, and strain. It maybe 
eaten with salt or sugar, according to taste. 






THIRTEENTH LESSON. 

COOKERY— continued, 

FOODS TO BB COOXBI) '. WHOLE BEEF-TEA — ^POTATO STTBFBISB — FBBSH MUTTOX 
UDXCK — AN BGO WHIFFBD AND MIXED WITH MILK OB WINE — ^BOILID 
BATTBB PUDDING WITHOUT AN BOG — ^BOILED CU8TABD. 

We are going to-day to cook a few dishes for sick persons who 
are recovering from a fever, or who have delicate digestions 
and have been ordered by the doctor to take some of the sohd 
foods that are named on the slate : — ' Whole beef-tea,' 
* potato surprise/ an egg whipped and then mixed with either 
milk or wine and a boiled custard. We will first make three 
gills or one and a half pints of whole beef-tea, for which we 
shall only require half the weight of fresh-killed meat. The 
strongest beef-tea, such as you made at the last lesson, had, 
you remember, one pound of beef to one pound of water, that 
is, equal weights of both water and beef. I shall remove all 
fat and skin and cut the beef up into pieces of about an inch 
square, as we did in making the strongest beef-tea, but I shall 
not put the noeat to stand in the three gills of cold water, only in 
one gill, which will be a third of it. When all the juices of the 
beef have been drawn out into the g^ of water, the beef must 
be put into a jar or saucepan with the remaining pint of 
water. When it has simmered for two hours it must aU be 
poured into the cold raw juice ; the pieces of beef are again to 
be taken out and either chopped up very fine or pounded in 
a mortar or wooden bowl with the end of a rolling-pin or 



BEEF.TEA. 65 

potato-crosher, and added to the hot beef-tea. A wholesome 
flavoarmg for beef-tea is a piece of greeti celery stalk, or a 
small onion, and a few cloves may also be put into it. A little 
Worcester Sauce is a safe flavouring. The beef for this tea 
ought to stand in the cold water all night, and be made in 
the morning. When beef or any food has been cooked it 
loses its flavour or osmazome, because as the meat is cooking 
the steam carries it off. Invalids who have weak digestion 
must not eat cold meat, or much worse still, cold meat warmed 
up. However careftdly a cook may warm or hash up cold 
meat, the heat she is obliged to use will draw out all the 
flavouring matter and juices that may have been left in the 
meat. Cold meat you know has not the flavour it has when 
hot and fresh^cooked. 

I am now going to teach you how to make a little dish 
called a ' potato surprise.' We must first choose a very good 
and large potato and wash it well, cut a hole, but take care not 
to destroy the skin, as it must be left on to cover the hole up 
when we have scooped out the inside and filled it with fresh, 
juicy, lean, uncooked mutton that has been minced up fine, with 
a little pepper and salt. When the potato is baked, a little 
fresh gravy can be poured in if there is any, and the meat 
appears dry. I have bought a fine lean mutton chop. The 
&t must be cut off before I chop or mince the meat. The 
bone shall be put into a small pan with two tablespoonfuls of 
water to stew, ready to be made into a little gravy to pour into 
the potato when it is cooked. The chop might be minced, 
and gravy made from the bone and sent up on a dish with 
little pieces of toasted bread put round in the gravy, instead of 
putting it into the potato. 

Doctors always ask whether eggs agree with their patients 
before they order them to eat them, as some people cannot 
digest eggs in any form, even when they are in good health. 
It is a pity when this is the case, as an egg is a most nourishing 
food. A great deal depends upon the way an egg is cooked. 
Dr. Chambers has drawn up the following list to show the 
best way. of cqokiiig an egg for an invalid or a person who has 
a weak stomach. 



66 THIBTEBNTH LESSON. 

Diffestibility of Eggs} 

TiMB TO Digest. 

Honrs. 

Eggs whipped and mixed with milk or wine . \\ 

£|ggs, fresh raw 2 

„ Soft-hoiled . ... . . . 8 

,; Hard-boiled 3| 

„ Fried 8J 

We shall find by studying this list that an egg, like beef, 
mUk, and all other foods, is most nourishing and digests in 
the shortest time when the albumen has not been hardened 
and the flavour and juices have not been carried off by too 
much heat. Heat cooks our food by making it tender, and by 
separating it so that the teeth can chop it up, and the saliva 
in the mouth can completely mix with it. After an egg has 
been beaten up or whipped, it is not a raw eggy because it has 
been cooked by the heat made in beating it, and the beating 
has separated every part so that the saliva can mix with it. 
If I had a very delicate thermometer I could show you how 
many degrees of heat had been made by the force used in 
beating the egg, because the quicksilver would rise several 
degrees when it was put into the beaten egg. As you were 
taught at a previous lesson how to beat an egg properly, I 
will beat this egg and mix it with two tablespoonfuls of new 
milk and half a teaspoonf ul of sugar, just to show you how 
to prepare an egg in the most digestible way, according to 
Dr. Chambers's egg list. Wine can be used instead of the 
milk when ordered. 

You see that a perfectly raw egg digests more quickly 
than a soft-boiled one, because none of the juices have been 
taken away, nor the albumen hardened. A hard-boiled egg 
and a &ied one are equally indigestible, and take the same 
long time to digest — ^three hours and a half! 

I taught you how to cook an egg so that it should never 
boil| at the third lesson. Baked puddings with egg^ are very 
indigestible, because the whole of the egg becomes very much 
hardened by being baked for so long a time. I will now 

* Dr. Chamben's Diet in Health and Disease. 



EGGS. 67 

xnaJce a small batter pudding without eggs. I shall require 
three teaspoonfuls of flour, one pint of new milk, one pinch of 
salt, and flavour it with ginger and nutmeg. A custard can 
1)0 eaten with this pudding or a little wine used as sauce. A 
custard if properly made is a very nourishing and digestible 
dish, because neither the egg nor the milk are allowed to boil. 
We will make a custard in this little white preserve jar, and 
put it into this large saucepan, so that it cannot come up to 
boiling point. Thoagh the custard in the jar cannot boil, it 
would be spoiled if we do not watch very ca/refuUy and take 
the jar out of the boiling water directly we feel by stirring that 
the custard is growing thick. Directly a custard becomes 
lumpy it is spoiled, because it shows that the egg has sepa- 
rated from the milk. Quantities : the yolks of two eggs, one 
gill of milk, one teaspoonf ul of sugar, and a bay-leaf. 

A potato surprise, batter pudding, and custard would be 
a nice little dinner to send up to an invalid. I shall arrange 
the tray for carrying it as prettily as possible, with a little 
flower or a few green leaves placed in a little pot of some kind 
to stand in the centre. 

Apparatus, 
No. 9 Sheet, Digestibility of Eggs. 

Queationa for Thirteenth Ledsoru 

1. Why ought invalids or delicate people not to eat cold meat, or 

cold meat that has been warmed up or hashed ? 

2. Why is an egg that has been beaten or whipped a cooked egg ? 

3. Why is a whipped egg veiy easily digested ? 

4. How would you arrange a little tray upon which you were going to 

carry a dinner to an invalid ? 

Receipta for Thirteenth Lesson* 

Whole Bkbf Tba.. — f of a poimd of lean beef. Remove all skin and 
gristle, and cut up into pieces an inch square, place in a basin with 
1 gill of cold water, and let them stand for about 1 hour, until the cold 
water has drawn out all the juices. The pieces of beef should then be taken 
out of this water and put into ajar with 1 pint of cold water, and the jar be 
pat into a pan of boiling water for 2 hours, when the cold gill of juice in 
which the beef stood must be poured into the hot beef-tea, the pieces 
of beef taken out and pounded well in a mortar, or if there is no mortar, 

f2 



Do THIBTE£NTH LESSON. 

in a clean wooden bowl, with the end of a rolling*pin or potato-eroBher ; 
then add them to t|ie hot beef-tea, llaTour with a little salt, and a stalk of 
green celery or a small onion and a few cloves. 

Custard. — ^Yolks of 2 fresh eggs beaten np well and mixed with 1 gill 
of new milk, 1 teaspoonfal of sugar, and 1 bay leaf. Put all into a jar, which 
should stand in a saucepan of boiling water. Stir the custard the whole 
time. Directly it begins to thicken, take the jar out of the boiling water and 
keep stirring for fiye minutes. 

Ax Egg bbatbn up with Milk ob Wink. — First beat up a whole fresh 
egg, and then add either 2 tablespoonfuls of new milk, or sherry wine if 
ordered. Some people may like a little sugar. 

MiNCBD Mutton. — Take a fresh mutton chop or any fresh lean mutton. 
Remove all fat and flesh from bone, chop the lean very finely, flavour to 
taste with pepper and salt. Cook the mince in a little jar covered over for 
half an hour in a pan of boiling water, let the bone with 2 tablespoonfuls 
of water be simmering to make a little gravy to add to the mince. When 
served up, little pieces of toasted bread can be put round the dish in the 
gravy. 

Potato Surfbisb, taken from Dr. Chambers's book on ' Diet in Health 
and Disease.' — Choose a large potato, brush and wash quite clean, scoop out 
the inside, taking care to leave a piece of skin on to cover the hole. Take 
a flue mutton chop, cut off all the meat, mince thelean very flne, and flavour 
with p^per and salt ; then fill the potato with the mince, cover up the 
hole and bake the potato. If the mince is dry, a little gravy can be 
added. 

Boiled Batter without Egg. — Three tablespoonfuls of fiour, 1 pint of 
new milk, 1 pinch of salt ; fiavour with ginger and nutmeg. 

Boiled Batter Pudding with Eggs. — Whisk 2 eggs to a froth, then 
add 3 tablespoonfuls of fiour and 2 tablespoonfuls of milk. Beat the batter 
until it is perfectly smooth ; then add 1 pint t>f milk and a pinch of salt. 
Boil in a buttered basin or fioured doth one hour. 

Dry Toast. — Cut a slice of bread, at least half-an-inch thick, off a loaf 
of very light bread that is neither quite new nor stale. Toast it very 
quickly before a hot, bright fire, then cut off the crust, divide it if the 
slice is large, and place the pieces upright. If they lie fiat the toast 
becomes tough and indigestible, because the moisture cannot get out 
through the toasted part — only through the soft sides. Toast should be 
eaten directly it is made or it is not good. Thin hard toast oontaius 
very little nourishment, and like a hard biscuit is indigestible. When 
bread is toasted slowly before a poor fire it always becomes hard and flinty, 
though the slices are not cut thin. 



1 



GBLATINB. — MEAT STOCK. '69 



FOURTEENTH LESSON. 

COOKEBY'-cfyiUiwued. 

VBAT STOCK — YBGBTABLB SOUP MADB OF MBAT STOCK — SOU? WITHOUT 
BUTCHEB's MBAT — BAKBD BOLL TRBACLB FDDDIKO. 

Befobb we begin to cook I wish yoa again to examine the 
contents of these five bottles, which hol4 all the principal 
substances to be fonnd in beef or batcher's meat. If I were 
to boil beef or any butcher's meat for a very long time I conld 
boil away all the good substances except one, which is the 
toughest and least digestible, called ' gelatine,' — here it is in 
this bottle. The gelatine we buy in packets to make jelly or 
to stiffen any dish like blanc-mange is the same snbstance. 
Some meats contain more gelatine than others. There is a 
great deal of gelatine in bone ; the gelatine in this packet 
is made from bone. Gelatine is nourishing when mixed up 
with different substances, as we find it in meat ; but it is not 
nourishing when eaten by itself, and only takes away the 
appetite ; for this reason do not give delicate patients jelly 
which is almost entirely made of gelatine. I shall try and 
show you how a great deal of the best food is wasted and 
made very indigestible because cooks do not understand what 
kind of a substance gelatine really is. 

The first food to be prepared to-day is called stock. Meat- 
stock is only the water in which meat has been boiled. As 
this water must contain some of the flavouring matter, juices, 
(fee., that have come out of the meat, and also some fat that is 
melted during the cooking, a good cook never throws this 
water away, but pours it directly, while it is hot, into a clean 
pan. When it is cold she takes off the fat that rises to the 
top and uses it for making cakes, &c., after clarifying it accord- 
ing to the following directions : — Put the fat, when cold, into 
a jar in the oven until melted, then pour it off into a clean 
jar. The top part will be clean, the water and bits having 
fallen to tlie bottomi. The cook uses the water in which the 
meat was cooked as a stock of food ready to make into gravy, 



70 FOURTEENTH LESSON. 

or into soap, by adding vegetables, &o. Soups are mnch 
more nonrishing when made with vegetables ; the vegetables 
ought to be well done, and, if possible, cooked separately, 
and then pat into the meat-stock. If the meat-stock and 
the vegetables are cooked together some of the stock is waated, 
because it simmers away while the vegetables are cooking. 
I prepared some stock yesterday. The stock in this glass jar 
was made with a pound of meat and three pints of water. 
I put the stock when made into a glass jar that you might see 
how clear the jelly is, and that a pint of good stock has been 
made. This stock is clear because I washed the meat and 
bones quite clean ip hot water, and put them into a perfectly 
clean saucepan, with cold water of course, as the juices have 
to be brought out into the soup. This stock is very nonrish- 
ing, because the meat was never allowed to boil. If soup boils 
the albumen in the meat becomes hardened and rises in Httle 
white bits to the top and makes what is called scum. Even 
if the soup does not boil a scum will rise if the meat and 
saucepan are not spotlessly dean, for any bits of food that 
were sticking to the sides and bottom of the pan come off, 
stick to the albumen, and rise with it to the top. 

I will now show you some stock made with exactly the 
same quantity of meat and bone, cooked according to a receipt 
given by a professed cook, which was that the meat was to 
BOIL (212°) for two hours. During some of the time the 
saucepan lid was to be removed, in order that the scum might 
be taken off to make the stock clear. At the end of the two 
hours which I had spent by the hot fire in watching the pot 
and in wViTnTwiTtg the top to remove the albumen, I found I had 
only made this little piece of gelatine that just covers the 
pahn of my hand, instead of all this clear, nourishing stock, 
which fills this glass jar. An ignorant cook would tell you 
that this stiff stock is very strong and nourishing, but a doctor 
- would tell you that if a man, woman, child, or dog, were to 
be fed on nothing else for some time, they would first suffer 
from diarrhoea and then die of starvation. I should recom- 
mend all cooks who wish to make their stock, soups, or any 
dish very stiff, to buy some gelatine sold in packets and add 
it to the stock, or any fisod they wish to make stiff, instead 



BOILING M£AT. 71 

of mixiiiig the meat and wasting their time in trying to send 
away all tbe other good substances it contains np the chimney 
in order to make a small quantity of gelatine that can be 
bought cheap in packets. Everyone, and cooks particularly, 
ought to read the following directions given this year about 
Boup-making, and the proper meat that should be used for 
cooking, as it shows how much the poor suffer in public insti- 
tutions owing to the ignorance of cooks. When bones are 
used to make soup they ought to be cooked for some time 
alone, and then be added to the meat, as the gelatine in the 
bone requires a long time to dissolve, and greater heat. 

* Meat — As a general rule, beef is the most economical 
form of animal food, when its price is considered in relation 
to the nourishment which it affords. It is richer in osmazome 
than mutton, and the fact that, as a general rule, it is more 
satisfying to the stomach, is one which should not be over- 
looked. Mutton is, on the whole, more digestible than beef, 
and is better adapted to the requirements of invalids. We 
therefore recommend beef for healthy prisoners at labour, and 
mutton for the sick in hospital. 

' It appears to be overlooked at some of the prisons that 
good soup and good cooked meat cannot be prepared by the 
same process. 

* When the object of " boiling ** meat is not to make soup 
but to retain the utmost amount of nutriment in the meat 
itself, large pieces of it should be plunged for a few minutes 
into boiling water, so as quickly to produce a cortex of hard- 
ened animal fibre, and it should then be cooked as slowly 
as possible at a temperature never exceeding 160° or 165° 
Fahrenheit. If the temperature be much lower than 160° 
the albuminoid substances do not coagulate, and the meat is 
not cooked. When the temperature is kept above 170° the 
muscular tissue shrinks, and the meat is rendered hard and 
indigestible. 

^ As the quantity of meat issued to a prisoner should not 
be more than is absolutely necessary, it is of the highest im- 
portance that it should be turned to the best account, and that 
the " ounces " in the diet table should be actually represented 
by properly cooked and digestible meat in the dinner tin. 



72 FOURTEENTH LESSON. 

'A prevalent fault in prison kitchens is, that excessiTe 
heat is nsed and the meat converted into a condensed shranken 
mass of little or no nutritive value. We think it right to ex- 
press ourselves strongly on this subject, on account of its 
great importance, and we must point out that it is useless to 
provide good meat unless such care be taken in cooking as to 
retain its nutritive properties in the highest possible degree.' 

' But whatever care may be taken in cooking meat, a por- 
tion of its juices and salts will escape into the broth, and we 
recommend that this be served up with the meat to which it 
belongs. When the meat is served up on one day and the 
broth on another, as is sometimes done, the organism is de- 
prived for a time of a portion of those principles which it is 
the object of the meat ration to supply. The "salts " of the 
meat are as essential to nutriment as its nitrogen or carbon.' ' 

The two soups we are going to make to-day shall contain 
all the three foods we must eat daily to be strong — viz., 
* body- warmers,* * flesh-formers,' and * mineral foods.' One 
soup will be made of meat-stock and vegetables, and the other 
will be made with vegetables and no butcher's meat. We 
will now wash the vegetables and cut them up ; the quantities 
of vegetables to be added to the meat-stock will be six oxmces. 
The vegetables we shall use will be carrots, turnips, onions, 
and celery. The stock I have prepared was made of two 
poimds of meat and bone (shin of beef or brisket), and four 
pints of water, simmered for four hours. The vegetable soup 
will be made as follows : — Two pints of water, two ounces of 
green peas (carrots or any vegetable will do), one onion, one 
lettuce. All the vegetables must be cut up fine. If carrots 
are used they should be scraped (carrot soup is the nicest of 
all vegetable soups). To this must be added two cold pota- 
toes, or uncooked ones, one tablespoonful of flour or oatmeal, 
mixed up with two ounces of dripping, half a teaspoonfol of 
sugar, some salt and pepper, half a pint of milk ; the milk to 

' The thermometer will be found useful in showing the cooks that the 
temperature is often much higher than they suppose. 

' Taken from a copy of the Report of the Committee appointed to in* 
quire into the Dietaries in Prisons in England and WaleSi 1S78. (Signed) 
Sir Selwyn Ibbotson. 



SOUP. — PBESEBTE OB TREACLE SOLT POLT. 73 

be added when the yegetables are done.^ Milk is not necessary 
for the soup, onlj it makes it more nourishing. These must 
all simmer gentlj for nearly an hoar, and then the soup will 
be quite ready to be eaten. Split or dried peas require a 
much longer time— about two hours — and this is the most 
nounshing soup of all. 

As there are so many cooks we shall soon prepare the 
vegetables'. Remember when you clean the carrot you must 
scrape very little off, as the most nutritious park lies under the 
thin skin. The turnip has a very thick skin, so you must take 
off about one eighth of an inch, or the thickness of two 
pennies. The first meat-soup is the famous pot-au-feu that 
the !French make. They put the meat and yegetables all on 
together very early in the morning into a strong stewpan 
with a good lid, and let the soup cook slowly for four hours, 
so that it ifi ready when they come home to their dinners. 
They put it on a stove, not on a fire, so that it can be safely 
left, as it never boils as our pans do. The French, Germans, 
and Russians, rich and poor, have some kind of soup every day. 

To-day we are going to make a baked treacle roly poly. 
We say treacle, but of course we use golden syrup, which is 
treacle that has been made clean and clear. It is often more 
convenient to bake or steam rather than boil a pudding, be- 
cause these puddings do not require a cloth. At our next 
lesson we will steam a fruit pudding and make a baked rhu- 
barb or apple pudding. 

The great secret of making a good baked pudding is to 
have fresh juicy fruit, put plenty of sugar in, and let the 
pudding be well baked for about two hours in an oven the 
right heat, such as pastry requires. If properly done the 
pudding should turn out of the basin or mould very brown, 
and covered with a thick, rich juice. A baked fruit pudding 
should never be sent to table dry and a light colour. The 
crust is often made too thick, and baked too quickly. 

Beceipt for Preserve or Treade Roly Poly, — ^Mix 3 oz. of 
finely chopped suet with half a pound of dry flour, about two 
tablespoonfuls of cold water, and a pinch of salt ; roll out to 

* Dr. Chambers's Diet in Health and Disease, 



74 FOURTEENTH LESSON. 

the thickness of abont half an inch. A tablespoonfal of fine 
bread-crumbs to be mixed with as mnch treacle as will thickly 
cover the paste. If the treacle is spread alone oyet the paste, 
being thin or liqnid, it runs ont ; a few bread-crumbs make 
the treacle thick enough to spread about a quarter of an inch 
deep over the paste. Wet the edge of the paste with cold 
water, roll it up, and press the edges firmly together ; lay it 
in a dripping tin, and bake slowly for about one hour and 
a half. Some people prefer the crust to be made of dripping. 
Bec&iptfor Baked Fruit Fuddmg, — Suet crust made exactly 
like the above, and rolled out to the same thickness. Rub a 
basin inside with either dripping or butter, sprinkle with 
sugar, and then line with paste, and fill it to the top with 
either rhubarb or apples, cut to the size of an inch. Add two 
tablespoonfuls of sugar, cover over with a crust wetted 
round the edge with cold water, and press it to the lining. 
Bake for about two hours in a moderate oven. A boiled or 
steamed pudding is made in exactly the same way. In the 
case of the steamed pudding, care must be taken to keep the 
water under the steamer constantly boiling, and^ of course, the 
water must boil before the pudding is put into the steamer, 
In making either a boiled or steamed pudding, the cook must 
remember not to put any sugar in the bottom of the basin, as 
is done in a baked pudding. A baked pudding, like a loaf of 
bread, should first be put on the bottom part of the oven, and 
then lifted on to the top shelf to brown. 

Apparatus and Artidea Itequired. 

Component parts of beef. 

Glass jar with clear stock. 

Stock prepared so that only the gelatine is left. 

Stock enough for the meat soup. 

Packet of gelatine. 

Qiieationa for Fourteenth Lesson. 

1. Why ought the water or stock in which any fresh butdi«r*8 meat or 

vegetables have been boiled (except potatoes in their skins) never 
to be thrown away, but poured while it is hot into a dean jug or 
basin? 

2. What is the white substance called scum, and why does it rise to the 

top of the water in which butcher*s meat or vegetables arebmled? 



SOUPS. — PEESBEVB OR TREACLE ROLY POLT. 75 

3. Why do doctors seldom allow a nurse to give jelly to patients, 

who are very weak or haye delicate stomachs ? 

4. Tell me how you would make a soup with meat so that it should con- 

tain 'body-warmers/ 'flesh-formers,' and 'mineral foods;' also a 
soup that should contain these three things without any meat? 

Beceipta for Fourteenth Lesson. 

Meat Sottf. — Stock made of 2 lbs. of fresh meat and bone ; shin of beef 
is suitable, or brisket, and 4 pints of water, simmered 4 hours ; 6 oz. in aU of 
the following vegetables — carrots, turnips, onions, and celery. 

Veqbtablb Soup. — Two pints of water, '2 oz. of green peas (carrots or 
any vegetables will do), 1 onion, 1 lettuce. All these vegetables must be 
cut up fine ; if carrots are used, they should be scraped (carrot soup is the 
nicnst of all vegetable soups). To this must be added 2 cold potatoes, or 
uncooked ones, 1 tablespoonful of flour or oatmeal, mixed up with 2 oz. of 
dripping, half a teaspoonfhl of sugar, some salt and pepper, half a pint of 
milk. The milk to be added when the vegetables are done. Milk is not 
necessary for the soup, only it makes it more nourishing. These must all 
simmer gently for nearly an hour, and then the soup will be quite ready to 
be eaten. Split or dried peas require a much longer time (about 2 hours), 
and this is the most nourishing soup of all. 

Full directions about making stock on page 69. 

Pbbsbbve ob Trbaclb Eoly Folt. — Mix 3 oz. of finely-chopped suet 
with half a pound of dry fiour, about 2 tablespoonfuls of cold water, and a 
pinch of salt. EoU out to the thickness of about half an inch. A table- 
spoonful of fine bread-crumbs to be mixed with as much treacle as will 
thickly cover the paste. If the treacle is spread alone over the paste, being 
thin or liquid, it runs out ; a few bread-crumbs make the treacle thick 
enough to spread about a quarter of an inch deep over the paste. Wet 
the edge of the paste with cold water, roll it up, and press the edges firmly 
together ; lay it in a dripping tin and bake slowly for about one hour and a 
half. Some people prefer the crust to be made of dripping. 

Baked Ebxht Puddinq. — Suet crust made exactly like the above, 
and rolled out to the same thickness. Rub a basin inside with either 
dripping or butter, sprinkle with sugar, and then line with paste, and fill 
it to the top with 'either rhubarb or apples cut to the size of an inch. Add 
two tablespoonfuls of sugar, cover over with a crust wetted round the edge 
with cold water, and press it to the lining. Bake for about two hours in 
a moderate oven. A boiled or steamed pudding is made in exactly the 
same way. In the case of the steamed pudding, care must be taken to 
keep the water under the steamer constantly boiling, and, of course, the 
water must boil before the pudding is put into the steamer. In making 
either a boiled or steamed pudding the cook must remember not to pat any 
sugar in the bottom of the basin, as is done in a baked pudding. A baked 
pudding, like a loaf of bread, should first be put on the bottom part of the 
oven, and then lifted on to the top shelf to brown. 



> 



76* FIFTEENTH LESSON. 



FIFTEENTH LESSON. 
COOKEBY— continued, 

FBA SOVF — ON BOHIMG — BOILED BABBIT AND ONION SAUCB, OB BOILED 
MEAT OB BACON — HASTT PUDDING AND TBEACLB — CLEAN AND T&U88 A 
FO"WL. 

Peas are a most nonrishing food because they contain a great 
many substances that form flesh. As they do not contain 
many substances that contain fat, called ' body- warmers/ 
they ought to be cooked with some fat meat, either pork or 
bacon. The stock we are going to make our pea soup of 
to-day is the water some bacon was boiled in yesterday. When 
peas and fat are cooked together they make an excellent hot 
dinner for people who are working hard out of doors in winter 
time. Split peas are the best kind ; they should be soaked 
overnight in cold water. The bad peas will float on the top of 
the water like bad eggs, and should be removed. It is better 
to cook the peas by themHelves until they are tender, and then 
add the peas and the water they have been boiled in to the 
stock and the other vegetables, and simmer together for two 
hours. The peas and bacon can, of course, be cooked together 
for three or four hours if there is no time to soak the peas 
overnight. The soup to-day will be made of the following 
ingredients: — Two quarts of stock, one quart of split peas, 
one head of celery, four onions, two carrots, and two turnips ; 
all to be chopped fine. As our peas have soaked overnight 
the soup will be ready when it has simmered for one and a 
half or two hours. 

You are now going to learn how to boil any Idnd of animal 
food so that all its juices shall be kept in and not brought 
out into the water. To-day we are going to boil a rabbit, that 
you may know how to clean one, and how to tell an old one 
from a young one. A young rabbit has smooth sharp claws ; 
if the rabbit is unskinned and has not been opened, you must 
cut it open and take out all that is inside, then skin it in the 
following way : — 

Babbits, dressed or undressed, should always be dipped in 



RABBITS AND FOWLS, 77 

hot water before they are cooked. When skinned, wash the 
rabbit well in cold water and let it sqak for a quarter of an 
honr in warm water to draw out the blood. Then bring the 
head round to the side of the body and fasten it there by 
means of a skewer run through the head and into the body. 
The rabbit must then be put into a pan and quite coyered over 
with hoilvng water, and let it simmer until tender, which will be 
in about an hour, or three quarters of an hour. When put on 
the dish to send to table, it ought to be qnite covered over 
with onion sauce. The boiling water into which the rabbit was 
put will harden the outside and keep in all the juices. 

A fowl with black legs is not so white when boiled as one 
with white ones. In order to find out whether the fpwl is 
young, press the breast-bone of a fowl just at the end where 
the opening is made to clean out the inside. If this part is 
very soffc like gristle, and not hard like bone, you may be sure 
that the fowl is a young one. 

First pluck off the feathers and pull out all the hard 

points quills called pens, which are very numerous in young 

fowls. Then singe off the long hairs with a piece of lighted 

paper ; take out the inside. Great care must be taken not to 

break the gall bladder, which is very bitter, and if broken 

would cause the fowl to have a bitter taste and be spoiled. 

Wash the fowl well in cold water ; cut off the neck, leaving 

skin enough to skewer back ; cut the feet off to the first joint, 

tuck the stumps into a slit made on each side of the belly, twist 

the wings over the back of the fowl, and fasten the top of the 

leg and the bottom of the wing together by running a skewer 

through the wings and the body. This is called * trussing a 

fowl.' I should always dip a fowl, ready dressed, in warm 

water before either roasting or boiling it, as poultry, like 

butcher's meat, is handled by dirty hands and put on dirty 

places, though some cooks will tell you that a fowl ought not 

to be washed at all. 

Questiona for Fifteenth Lesson, 

1. Why is pea soup a good dish for cold weather ? 

2. How would you skin and clean a rabbit ? 

3. How would you prepare a fowl for cooking that had not been cleaned^ 

nor had its feathers plucked ? 



78 SIXTEENTH LESSON. 



Receipts for Fifteenth Lesson. 

Pba Soup. — ^Two quarts of stock from boiled bacon, or any stock with 
a little bacon, 1 lb. or pint of split peas, 1 head of celery, 4 onions, 2 carrots, 
and 2 turnips. All to be chopped fine and simmered. If the peas have 
soaked overnight, an hour and a half or two hours are sufficient. Pepper 
and sa)t to taste, and when served, add a little dried mint. 

Hasty Fuddino. — Boil 1 pint of milk ; a pinch of salt. Sprinkle 
gradually into the milk about 4 tablespoonfuls of flour, beating the mixture 
all the time with a fork while it is simmering, until it is rather thicker 
than batter. Then let it simmer for five minutes. 



SIXTEENTH LESSON. 

COOKESY—continued. 

SHSBF^S HEAD — SUET BTTMPLINGS — PICKLED CABBAGE AND ONIONS — DBIBD 
HBBBS, PABSLBT, lONT, MABJOBAM, SAOE, THTMB. 

The sheep's bead lias been washed thoroughly as you can see ; 
it has also soaked for two hours in warm water, so as to get 
rid of the blood. It must be put into this saucepan and 
completely covered over with cold water. Directly it boils we 
will put in these vegetables when they have been cut up : 
three carrots, three turnips, three onions, sprig of parsley, a 
teaspoonful of salt, a teaspoonful of pepper. Mix two table- 
spoonfuls of Scotch oatmeal smoothly with a little stock out 
of the pan, and then gradually stir it into the pan and keep 
stirring until the broth boils. The pan should then be taken 
off the fire and placed where it can only simmer for one and 
a half or two hours. Care must be taken to fasten the lid of 
the saucepan down tight. 

Suet dumplings are excellent cooked in the sheep's head 
broth. I have brought all the things ready mixed so that we 
shall only have to make the paste into dumplings and put 
them into the broth as quickly as possible, as they will take 
as long as the broth to cook. The dumplings are made of the 



PIOKLBD CABBAGE AND ONIONS. 79 

following quantities : 1 lb. of flour, 6 oz. of suet, very finely 
chopped, a pinch, of salt, and a gill of either milk or water. 
A snet padding made like this is very good boiled in a long 
roly-poly shape, and when done cut into slices and put into 
the dripping pan for a minute or two, and then browned 
before the fire ; children like this very much with roast meat 
or gravy. At our next lesson we will prepare the sheep's 
head and everything we have cooked to-day for the broth, for 
you to see how to make it yourselves. 

While the broth is cooking I will show you how to pickle 
red or white cabbages, for they are the same in every way 
except in colour. We will take off the outside leaves of this 
fresh cabbage, cut it into four quarters, take away the stalk, 
and then cut the quarters into shreds very fine, lay them on 
this dish, and cover with plenty of salt. Some people let the 
cabbage lie in the salt for twenty-four hours, but I think two 
or three hours are plenty, as the salt draws out all the juices 
and spoils the colour. I shall let it stand in the salt until I 
have boiled half-a-pint of vinegar and 1 oz. of black pepper, 
and a little sugar. I shall then squeeze the cabbage quite dry 
to get out the salt, put it into a jar, and pour the vinegar 
over it when it is cold. 

This cabbage can be eaten the next day, or it will keep, if 
the jar is covered over, for several weeks. 

Pickled Onions, — 1 lb. of small pickling onions, 1 pint of 
vinegar, ^ oz. of pepper, a little ginger. Take care the onions 
are quite ripe ; the stalks are then dry and fall off. Ripe 
onions when pickled will keep for a year, but unripe ones not 
for more than a short time. Feel the onions and wash in cold 
salt and water, in which they must stand for one hour. Half 
the quantity of vinegar is to simmer for half an hour with the 
pepper and ginger, then to be poured through a sieve, and 
added to the cold vinegar, and poured over the onions. Cover 
np the jar, and do not use for three months. 

It is now the time of year for storing up dried herbs such 
as thyme, marjoram, sage, parsley, and mint, for winter use. 
I have taken care that the herbs are quite fresh and ripe, 
just rinsed in a little cold water. When all the leaves have 
been stripped off the stems they must be put on separate 



80 SIXTEENTH LESSON. 

pieces of white paper in the oyen, or on tlie top of the oven, 
and left there until all the leaves have become crisp and diy, 
so that they can be rabbed throngh a sieve. Shonld there 
be no sieve the leaves may be mbbed between the hands 
into a fine powder, if the hands are very clean and quite dry. 
The bottles are labelled ready to receive four kinds of herbs. 
If the bottles are corked their contents will keep for a year. 
Some people have an untidy habit of keeping dried herbs 
wrapped up in paper. 

At the end of this lesson I shall give you some questions 
which I am sure you will be able to answer, as you have been 
learning daring the last year the use of the different kitchen 
utensils that are mentioned in the questions. I will now tell 
you how you can keep bread so that the crost shall not 
become soft. After the bread has been baked and become 
quite cold, it ought to be kept in an earthenware pan that 
stands in a dry cool place, covered with a lid that has holes in 
it ; a wooden lid is best, because china ones so easily break. 
If the earthenware pan is not glazed, air will pass through 
the pan. Flour is a food that is eaten by germs that are always 
floating in the air and ready to fall into any food they like, 
particularly if the food is a little damp. If flour were kepi in 
a damp cnpboard it would soon become very damp and full of 
mites and living germs. We must therefore take great care 
that the jar that holds the flour shall stand in a dry place and 
shall keep out the air and the little living germs in the air. 
The jar shonld be covered with glaze outside, because the 
glaze prevents the air from getting in, and the lid should have 
no holes. An earthenware jar prevents the flour from wnlriiig 
into any holes or comers, as it does into the oomeis of a 
wooden box or a tin box. A jar can also be easily washed out 
once a week, and above all be easily made perfeethf dry. 
If the bread is kept in a wooden box, when it is washed the 
water runs into the comers and into the wood, and takmi a 
very long time to get perfectly dry. I am glad that ire have 
found during our lessons that the cheapest utenala are the 
best and sweetest. 



COOKING UTENSILS. 



81 



Questions for Sixteenth Lesson. 

1. Tell me how many of the following cooking utensils a working man's 
wife onght to have. The price of each utensil is given. How 
much money would it take to buy all you think she would want? 



Price each. 




Price each. 




8. 


d. 






8, 


d. 


Iron saucepanfl from la.9d. 






Paste-board 




1 


2 


to .... 


. 3 





Pepper-box 







4 


Thick iron frying-pan 


. 1 


6 


Hand brush 







6 


Thick gridiron . 


. 3 





Scrubbing brush 







6 


Iron kettle 


. 4 


6 


Soap box 







6 


Bottle-jack 


. 10 


6 


Black-lead brush 







8 


Dripping-pan . 


. 1 


3 


Earthenware bread-pan, 






Yorkshire pudding tin 


. 


8 


with wooden lid with holes 


1 


6 


Wooden spoons . 


, 


2 


Earthenware pan 


for flour. 






Iron spoons 


. 


3 


glassed, with wooden lid 






£nife-boz 


. 2 





without holes 


• • 


1 


4 


Colander (tin) . 


1 


6 


Brown jars for 


holding 






Dredging-boz . 


. 1 





sugar, rice, and all gro- 






Wooden bowl . 


2 


4 


ceries . 


• • 





4 


Boiling-pin 





4 


Steamer . 


• . 


2 






2. What kind of saucepans do you think are the safest, strongest, and 

most easily kept sweet and clean ? 

3. What is the best material for making the kitchen cloths and dusters 

that are required in a cottage home ? How many would a yard 
make ? What number would be wanted for a week's use and a 
change, and how much would they all cost? 

4. Why is an earthenware pan the best to keep bread so that the crust 

shall not become soft ? Why should the lid (made of wood) 
always be kept on, and have some holes in it ? A pan like this is 
also the best for keeping cheese. 

5. Why is an earthenware jar that is glazed inside, and has a tight- 

fitting lid without holeSf the best for keeping flour ? 



Receipts for Sixteenth Lesson, 

FicKJMD Onions. — 1 lb. of small pickling onions, 1 pint of vinegar, 
^ oz. of pepper, a little ginger. Take care the onions are quite ripe ; the 
stalks are then dry and fetll off. Bipe enions when pickled will keep for a 
year, but not if unripe for more than a short time. Peel the onions and 
wash in cold salt and water, in which they must stand for one hour. Half 
the quantity of vinegar is to simmer for half an hour with the pepper and 

O 



82 SEVENTEENTH LESSON. 

ginger, then to be poured through a sieve and added to the cold vinegar 
and poured over the onions. Cover up the jar, and do not use for three 
months. 

Sheep's He/ld Bboth. — The sheep^s head to be washed thoroughly, and 
to soak for 2 hours in warm water to get rid of the blood, then put mto a 
saucepan and completely cover with cold water. Directly it boils put in 
the following vegetables, when they have been cut up: 3 carrots, 3 turnips, 
3 onions, sprig of parsley, a teaspoonful of salt, a teaspoonful of pepper. 
Mix 2 tablespoonfals of Scotch oatmeal smoothly with a little stock out of 
the pan, then gradually stir it into the pan, and keep stirring until the 
broth boils. The pan should then be taken off the fire and put where it 
can only simmer for one and a half or two hours. Care must be taken to 
fasten the lid of the saucepan down tight. 

SuEX Dumplings. — 1 lb. of flour, 6 oz. of suet, very finely chopped, a 
pinch of salt, and a gill of either milk or water. Dumpling to be boiled in 
the sheep's head broth. 



SEVENTEENTH LESSON. 
COOKERY— contmuecL 

ICACCABONI WITH CHEESE — A. MOULD OF SEMOLINA— COCOA. — COFFSE — 

POBBIDOB. 

Before we cook the maccaroni we will again look at the 
principal substances contained in a ponnd of flour. Qluten 
and all the flesh-formers are, you see, placed together. 
Gluten is the same substance as albumen. Maooaroni is 
made chiefly of gluten that has been taken out of wheaten 
flour, and is a very nourishing flesh-former. It is very easily 
cooked, and not expensive, because a small quantity swelL 
very much with cooking. Two ounces make a good-sized 
dish. The best kind is sold in straight sticks/ and is eight- 
pence per pound. We wiU break these two ounces of long 
sticks into pieces of about four inches, and put them into this 
saucepan of boiling water, with a little salt, where thej wilh 
have plenty of room to swell. Place the pan where the mac ( 
cai'oni can simmer, and cook gently. When it is quite tende 
I shall take it out, spread it on a flat dish, add a little pepp* 



TEA, COCOA, COFFEE. 83 

and salt, scrape two ounces of new Cheshire cheese all over 
the top, and put it in front of the fire to brown. This dish is 
very nourishing, as cheese is also a flesh.former. 

Semolina is roughly-ground wheat of a hard kind that 
contains a great deal of gluten and is very nutritious, because 
besides gluten it has all the other good things which wheat 
possesses. I shall put one tablespoonful into half a pint of 
milk, sweeten with two tablespoonfuls of sugar, and let it 
simmer very gently on the top of the oven for half an hour. 
It must be well stirred for the first ten minutes. As soon as 
it is ready I shall pour it into this basin that has been well 
rinsed out with cold water. When the semolina is cold it will 
turn out, and be very nice eaten with treacle, sugar, or pre- 
serve. Semolina is also very good eaten hot. In the summer 
time cold moulds made in tiie same way of whole or ground 
rice are very nice. 

Bevalenta arabica is ground lentils, and is very nutritious. 

I have brought the substances contained in one pound of 
tea and one pound of cocoa to show yop, so that you luay see 
how much more nourishment there is in cocoa than there is 
in tea. Coffee contains the same substances at tea, except 
caffeine, which is the flavouring matter of coffee. Cocoa 
contains two body-warmers — cocoa-butter and some starch, 
also some flesh-formers — glutep, &c. 

Theobromine is the flavouring matter that soothes people's 
nerves, just as the theine and caffeine do in tea and coffee. 
Like aU flavouring matter it is very delicate, and is spoiled if 
boiled ; for this reason we never allow tea, coffee, or cocoa to 
be put on the fire ; only pour boiling water over them. The 
best cocoa is Epps's cocoa nibs, and should be made in the 
following way. 

Oocoa.— Nibs are 1«. 4d. per lb. (this cocoa is of course 
quite genuine). 1 oz. of nibs to 3 pints of water ; stew gently 
in a jar in the oven 1^ hours, or on the top of the oven to 
simmer for 3 or 4 hours. It is very good taken with half 
the quantity of boiling milk, or less if preferred ; sweeten to 
', taste. Some people will put the jar of cocoa in the oven all 
th night to be ready for breakfast. When cocoa is made from 

o 2 



84 SEVENTEENTH LESSON. 

the packet which is gronnd cocoa a teaspoonfol is put into the 
cup and boiling water is poared on to it and well stirred. 
Milk is added to taste. 

Yon all know how to make a cnp of tea, bnt not many 
English people can make a good cnp of cofPee. I will teach 
yon how to make it as it is made in France, Germany, aod 
Russia, where rich and poor take it instead of tea for their 
breakfast. They never put it on the fire to boil any more 
than tea, but have a coffee-pot like this, which has a little 
strainer in the middle upon which the coffee rests. The 
boiling water that is poured * into it passes over the coffee 
and falls into the bottom part. You can take off the top part 
where the coffee dregs are, and put the lid over the under 
pan and send it to table. 

The very best coffee is spoiled and disagreeable if it is not 
very hot. The first thing will be to take care that the coffee 
pot is made very hot by pouring boiling water into it. When 
it has been poured out I shall put in two tablespoonfiils of 
coffee, and then take, care to pour boiling water over the 
coffee and place the pot, while the water is running through, 
on the top of the oven, or where it can be kept very hot. 
The milk must also be very hot, though not boiling. The 
French half fill the cup with milk and then pour in the coffee. 
This with sugar is a very nourishing drink. This coffee-pot 
cost 2«., and can be bought at any resectable tinman's 
shop. 

This is your last lesson of the course, which has lasted a 
year. During these lessons I have endeavoured to teach you 
that even strong people who have done growing cannot be 
healthy unless they eat three kinds of food daily — ^viz., * body* 
warmers,* * flesh-formers,* and * mineral foods ' — and that 
these different foods will not nourish every part of the body 
unless they are cooked so that all the substances they contain 
are kept in and the food is made tender. If food is cooked 
with too little heat the food is tough and indigestible, and if 
too much heat be used the food is also made tough and the 
osmasome or flavouring matter is carried away, which is the 
substance that tempts an invalid or a delicate persoii to 
eat, and gives him the power to digest the food he has been 



> DIFFERENT KINDS OF FOODS. 85 

tempted to eat. All kinds of food are best eaten fresh, be- 
cause the air, or the oxygen gas in the air, soon gets into 
them and spoils their flavour and changes their nature. 

All foods, as you have seen by examining the contents of 
milk, flour, eggs, beef, potatoes, coffee, tea, and cocoa, contain 
some water — jnst the quantity of course that is required 
to mix all the different substances together. You will find 
that the foods that change or go bad the most quickly are 
those that have the greatest quantity of water. For instance, 
milk, butcher's meat, fresh vegetables and fruity very soon go 
bad, and contain an immense quantity of water. Wheat, oats, 
tea, coffee, or cocoa have very little water— only from 1 oz. to 
1^ oz. in a pound. When some foods are preserved the water 
is sent out in steam by great heat, and the flavouring matter 
and some of the jaices must go out with the steam. Butcher's 
meat is made to keep by rubbing salt over it, which draws 
out the water and juices. Salt beef, ham, bacon, &c., will 
keep for a long time, because the water, juices, &c., mn out 
into the salt brine, which is thrown away. Very salt meat is 
a dear food, because when it is eaten it does not make good 
pure blood that can feed and strengthen every part of the 
body. Salt meat should always be eaten with a good quan- 
tity of potatoes, or any fresh vegetables or fruit, all of which 
contain the mineral foods that have been drawn out by the 
salt. Oar sailors still suffer from scurvy on long voyages, 
because they are obliged to eat salt meat without potatoes or 
any fresh vegetables or fruit. It is not the salt that gives 
the scurvy : it is the meat without its jaices and minerals 
which causes this terrible disease. 

Milk is preserved in tins by using great heat, that drives 
oat the steam or water. A great quantity of white sugar is 
pat into the Swiss milk, which makes it thick and prevents 
it fix>m going bad. A mother's milk contains some sugar, but 
it is quite a different kind of sugar from that we make. The 
sugar that is manufactured sometimes ferments in the stomach 
and turns sour, but the sugar in a mother's milk does not. 
Children who are fed on this preserved milk will sometimes 
grow very fat, because the sugar turns into fat in the body. 
Children grow fisbt that are fed on the following foods, which 



86 SEVENTEENTH LESSON. 

contain nothing but starch, and starch, like sugar, is changed 
into fat : — 



Oswego. 
MaJzena. 
Com-floTip. 
Airowroot. 
Cassaya meal. 
Potato-starch. 
Sago. 
Sago meal. 



Salep. 

Tacca starch or Otaheite 

arrowroot. 
Tapioca. 
Tapioca meal or Brazilian 

Arrowroot. 
Tous-le-mois (West Indian). 



Though the infant or child looks fat, and the nurse is 
yexy proud of its great size and very much astonished that 
such a fine child cannot walk when it gets to be a jear old, 
directly fhe doctor sees the poor fat baby he knows it has 
been starved or pined by being fed on only one kind of food, 
that could not make bone, muscle, flesh, or nerves, only &t. 
He then tells the mother that her child has a complaint called 
'rickets,' which may make it a cripple for life, or leave it 
with poor, weak, crooked legs. If people who have done 
growing cannot be strong and healthy unless they eat daily 
'body- warmers,' 'flesh-formers,' and mineral foods, how is 
it possible for a growing infant to be strong unless it has all 
these foods to feed its fat and flesh and make its bones strong? 
Until a child is seven years old its bones are not quite hard. 
New milk has every substance to be found in animal and 
vegetable foods. If mother's milk cannot be got, the baby 
should have daily three pints of new cow's milk until it has 
cut some teeth. Though flour and bread is such a nourishing 
food for children, an infant would suffer agonies of pain and 
be soon pined to death if fed on it, because the saliva in its 
mouth cannot digest the starch in the flour and turn it into 
sugar. When it begins to cut its teeth the saliva beoomes 
quite different, just like the saliva which grown-up people 
have. Children ought to have nothing but milk until they 
are nine months old. 

Dr. Ferguson, who examines and weighs factory children 
every week to see if they are strong enough to go to work, 
says that he finds that young people between the ages of 
thirteen and eij^t^en who are fed on milk for bre^k&st and 



MILK. — OATMEAL POBRIDGB. 87 

supper, grow twice as fast as those fed on tea and coffee. I 
am very glad to think that children are now not allowed to 
go to work nntil a medical man considers they are fit to 
labonr. 

Oatmeal porridge is excellent food for breakfast if it is 
properly made, bnt it is generally too little cooked, bnmt, 
and lompy. Goarsely-gronnd Scotch oatmeal is the best. I 
will MOW show you how to make it. I shall mix two table- 
spoonfnls of oatmeal with a teacnpfal of cold water nntil it is 
quite smooth in this basin ; then pour in a pint of boiling 
water, and keep frequently stirring. The pan should either 
be put on the hob or hung on the recon for nearly three- 
quarters of an hour. A great many people cook oatmeal in a 
double pan, or by putting the pan with oatmeal into a larger 
one filled with boiling water. 

Apparatus, ^c, Required. 

Component parts of flour. 
„ „ of milk. 

„ „ of tea. 

of cocoa. 



r* »» 



of 1 lb. of potatoes, to show the great quantity of 
water in fresh vegetables. 



Receiptafor Seventeenth Lesson. 

Maccaboni and Ohbbse. — 2 oz. of maccaroni. The straight sticks must 
be brokeii into small pieces of about four inches, or to suit the saucepan. 
Boil in water until tender ; then place in a dish, a little salt and pepper 
added, and some cheese grated over the top ; then put into a hot oven until 
it is nicely browned. 

MoiTiO) OF Sbholina. — 1 tablespoonful of semolina ; ^ pint of milk ; 
sweeten with 2 teaspoonfiils of sugar. Stir for ten minutes, and then sim- 
mer for 1 hour or more. Pour it into a basin that has been well rinsed 
with cold water. (Full directions given at p. 83.) 

Cocoa. — ^Nibs are Is. 4(2. per lb. (this cocoa is of course quite genuine). 
1 oz. of nibs to 3 pints of water. Stew gently in ajar in the oven labours, 
or on the top of the oven to simmer for 3 or 4 hours. It is very good taken 
with half the quantity of boiling milk, or less if preferred ; sweeten to taste. 
Some people will put the jar of cocoa in the oven all night to be ready for 
breakfast. When cocoa is made from the packet, wliich is ground cocoa, 



dS EIGHTEENTH LESSON. 

a teaspoonfol is put into the eap, and boiling water is poured on to it and 
well stirred. Milk is added to taste. 

FoBBZDGB. — ^Mix 2 tablespoonfnls of coarsely ground Scotch oatmeal 
with a teacnpfhl of cold water until it is quite smooth, and then pour in a 
pint of boiling water, and keep frequently stirring it in the pan, which 
must be either on the hob or hung on the recon, or put into a jar in 
boiling water, where it can simmer without fear of burning for three- 
quarters of an hour. Some prefer to use a double saucepan for making 
porridge, as it must be well and slowly done, or it is not wholesome. 



EIGHTEENTH LESSON. 
LECTURE ON DIET, WARMTH, AND CLOTHING, 

Whenever we hear of wonderful cases in which people have 
been able to live without solid food for ten days like the poor 
Welsh miners, or for a year like the Welsh * fiebsting-girl ' in 
1868, we shall find that the people who had to undergo this 
priyation had three things, namely, water, warmth, and quiet; 
that is to say, they had no work to do and no exercise. In 
the case of the Welsh * fasting-girl,' she always remained in 
bed ; directly the doctors who were sent down to watch the case 
saw that she really had no solid food or water she gp»dually 
sank, and died at the end of about a week. When the fat in 
the body is reduced to a certain quantity death occurs; for 
instance, if a man weighs 100 pounds, he will die wlien he 
weighs only 60 pounds. The fat pig that was buried for 160 
days under three feet of chalk came out very thin but alive ; 
he had taken the water which had trickled down the rocks, 
the close little room kept him warm. 

Invalids who have become very thin after a severe illness 
often owe their lives to being kept very quiet. A knowledge 
of the facts I have mentioned has proved very valuable to 
persons who have been shut up in times of siege ; they knew 
that their lives depended upon warm clothing and quiet. 

Poctors know directly when a person is dying of starva* 



STARVATION. 89 

V 

tion. Sad cases sometimes occur because people do not know 
certain signs wliich are unmistakeable. Starving people 
become very thin ; their faces grow very pale and livid ; their 
lips white, because the red corpuscles in the blood grow daily 
fewer; their eyes have a dreadful expression, look bright, 
stare, and never seem to wink ; the limbs move very slowly, 
the voice is feeble, they stagger like drunken men. It is in 
this stage of starvation policemen sometimes mistake the poor 
sufferer for a drunkard, and carry him off to the lock-up. 
The little blood they have flies to the brain; that organ, sad to 
say, works night and day, because in starvation the power of 
sleep dies away. They picture the most delicious foods, and 
fancy, they are eating them ; after a time the desire for food 
goes, the juices that digest the food disappear, digestion 
becomes more and more difficult, until at last the appetite goes 
altogether and the breathing is very slow. Dr. Chambers 
gives this terriblo description of starvation, and says that 
some of these signs may be seen by watching a half-starved 
London needlewoman as she enters her poor home. 

There was a very fine picture in the Boyal Academy in 
1874, called the ' Casual Ward ;' a man asking to be taken in 
at a workhouse. Dr. Chambers says that the wonderful effect 
which that picture had upon all who saw it arose from the 
&ict that the artist who painted it knew perfectly all the 
signs of starvation. The same authority says that want of 
food injures and weakens the brain as well as the body, and 
that whenever &jnine appears crime and brutality imme- 
diately break out. 

Erasmus Wilson, the distingnished ' skin doctor,' speaks 
very strongly, in his book on the skin, about the necessity of 
good food for young people. The diet of children cannot, he 
says, be too varied. Change of food to the stomach is what 
change of air is to the general health. This he considers 
so rational a view that he wonders how anyone can hold a 
different opinion ; yet, he declares, ' I have met with parents 
who come to me and boast that their children are fed exclusively 
on mutton.' Another mania is to give them only a certain 
quajitity, not allowing the children to satisfy their hunger. 
Ou on^ ocQasioA h^ w^ cons^lt^d for eruptions of the scalp, 



90 EIGHTEENTH LESSON. 

and, after putting certain questions, he fonnd, as he expected, 
that the eruptions were caused by starvation. Directly these 
children had plenty of food and a proper variety of it, their 
heads recovered. Dr. Chambers says that a deficient diet 
wonld also canse the following symptoms : — a glazed appear- 
ance in the eyes, an nicer in the cornea, and finally blindness. 
When these symptoms are met with in reformatories, orphan 
asylums, and all other public institutions, they ought, he 
says, to be closely watched, for people are apt to think these 
cases must be treated by lowering the quantity of food, 
whereas that treatment soon takes away all chance of re- 
covery. I have frequently been told myself, by rich and poor 
mothers, that it was strange that their children had these 
breakings-out, as they had given them several doses of opening 
medicine. 

Doctors often find that they can restore the insane by 
giving them good food. Brain diseases, it is said, cause 81 
per cent, of all deaths in London before the age of ten ; 92 
per cent, before the age of fifteen. I cannot understand how 
children can grow up strong, either morally, mentally, or 
bodily, who go to schools where they are not only frightened 
by the brutality of bigger boys or girls, but are underfed, over- 
worked, and breathe bad air at an age when they are least 
able to bear these hardships. 

The folio wii.g are two dietaries drawn up by Dr. Chambers 
and Dr. Smith for children in the nursery, and for boys and 
girls at school : — 



Diet for School Boys and CH/rU, 

There should be four meals daily. 

Breakfast. — Porridge, treacle, new milk half-a-pint. 

Girls the same, or caf6 au lait (coffee with half-a-pint of 
new milk), butter and bread without limit. 

Dinner. — Joints of meat, always hot and always fresh ; 
salt meat never oftener than once a week, and so lightly 
salted that the liquor can be used for broth at the same meal. 
Meat unlimited. A variety of fresh vegetables; always pota- 



DIET. — CLOTHING. 91 

toes ; split peas ; French beans and rice boiled in meat liqnor. 
Padding daily after meat: rice and other farinaceous pud- 
dings made of milk ; after them come suet paddings, boiled 
or baked, made also of milk; and roly-poly preserve pud- 
dings and similar puddings made with suet. On days when 
soup is given, the pudding might be supplied by bread and 
cheese. 

Tea. — ^Half-a-pint of warm or cold new mOk ; bread and 
butter in unlimited quantity. Tea for girls if required ; large 
quantity of milk. 

SUPPEB. — Bread and cheese, if bread and milk have been 
given for tea. 

ChUd/ren's Diet in Nursery. 

Children should have four meals a day, but meat only 
at one, or at most two ; the latter when a small portion is 
allowed. When in health they should have no wine or beer, 
no oofiee, strong tea, or other exciting drinks. Once cooked 
succulent meat, without sauces or condiments, eggs, plenty of 
farinaceous pudding, mealy potatoes, carrots, spinach, French 
beans, rice, bread, fresh butter, porridge, roast apples, and 
oranges should form the staple of the nursery commissariat. 

A great many parents and guardians hold as ignorant 
ideas about clothing their children as they do about feeding 
them ; clothing is of as much importance to young children as 
fcheir food. Every part of an infant shonld be covered up but 
its head. If a baby's head is kept hot it will dream and be 
feverish and restless ; it is not intended that its brains should 
work. For that reason great care ought to be taken to keep 
its head cool. A baby has generally no hair on its head when 
it is bom, and the effect of this is to keep it cool. Narses 
won't beHeve this. They will cover the head both by day 
and when it is in bed, in spite of all the doctors say. Every 
other part of its body ought to be kept very warm, or the 
blood will not be able to pass through the capillaries to feed 
the flesh. What is the use of feeding a child with good food 
if the food, when it is m^Ae into blood, cannot get out of the 



92 EIGHTEENTH LESSON. 

capillaries to feed the bodj P Gold shuts up these wonderful 
little blood-vessels; therefore a child will starve unless its 
limbs are covered up. 

The heat of the blood of grown-up people is about 100^, 
but for the first foar months of an infant's life its heat is only 
95°. Doctors have found that when young puppies or kittens 
are allowed to remain in their proper place by their mother's 
side their heat is only one degree lower, but if removed their 
heat soon sinks to the temperature of the air. You must know 
that we die when the heat of our blood is only 70°. I believe 
that many a young in&nt's life is lost by being put during the 
winter or cold weather into a smart bassinette. A baby's life 
really depends upon its being kept warm, as it has very little 
power of making its own heat ; and yet our babies in England, 
a civilised country, are doomed to wear a dress that would 
chill the blood of a strong man or woman ; a cotton frock, 
made like a ball dress with short sleeves and cut low so as to 
expose its delicate little chest. And this is the style in which 
a poor little girl is got up for six or seven years of her life. 
Boys are better off, because mothers put them into jackets 
and trousers at a very early age, because they like to see 
them look manly. A sensible young mother, a Mend of mine, 
determined to get a dress for her infant that should leave no 
part uncovered. She found, to her surprise, when she applied 
to friends who lived in London, Paris, and Germany, that 
they could not furnish her with such an unusual garment; 
fortunately an American lady she knew in Leeds possessed 
one, and I have brought the curiosity to show yon. I am 
rejoiced to think that in one country at least children are 
properly clothed. In spite of aU doctors can say, old nurses 
persuade mothers that a baby can bear, more cold than a 
strong man or woman, and that it is good to harden them^ 
These very children, who are to be hardened as they call it, 
are generally those who spend most of their time in hot 
nurseries. 

One cold winter's day at Scarborough -I followed two 
nurses who had the care of a little girl of about six, dressed 
in a velvet hat and feathers, white fur jacket, black velvet 
frock that only came to her knees. As the child was crying 



CLOTHING. 98 

I Spoke to the nurses, and told them it was no wonder the 
poor little girl was cold with her legs nnoovered on such 
a day. Thej both smiled at my want of knowledge, and said 
that the only way to make her strong was to leave her legs 
bare. A very stout mother wrapped up in fur once told me 
that she always let her little children go bare-legged so that 
the oxygen could enter the skin. 

Directly old or young feel cold, you may be sure the blood 
is not circulating properly and feeding all the organs. When 
the blood does not reach the outer skin chilblains come. 
Chilblains are only diseased flesh which may break and leave 
a sore. Cold has the effect of stupifying the brain. The 
blood when we are cold circulates so slowly that very little 
reaches the brain, and still you will find that schoolrooms 
where children are obliged to sit still for hours and use their 
brains to learn their lessons, are often very cold. No sitting- 
room ought to be colder than 55° or 60°. 

Perfect clothing ought to be light and warm. The great 
amount of heavy clothes that some women wear is said to 
cause serious complaints. Clothes have no warmth in them- 
selves ; we wear them in order to prevent the heat that is in 
our bodies from escaping. The great point then is to choose 
n^iaterials that are light, warm, and keep in the heat. It 
would be well if mothers would study and see how beautifully 
the bodies of animals are protected ; their bodies are covered 
with either fur, feathers, or wool. All these are made of 
animal substances, as they are a part of an animal. Everyone 
should know that animal substances are non-oonductors, that 
is, will allow very little heat to pass through them. I have 
brought you an eider duck, which is considered to have the 
lightest and warmest covering. It comes from the Shetland 
Isles, where the cold is very great during the winter ; though 
this bird is so large, and weighs about four pounds, it can fly 
eighty or ninety miles an hour. Let us examine its covering. 
The most delicate part, you see, the chest, is covered with 
something beautifully white and soft; it is down ; and though 
so light and soft, down has a greater power, some say, of pre- 
venting heat from leaving the body than any other substance. 
YotL can see what an immense number of feathers this bird 



94, 



XIOHTEEHTB LESSON. 



has ; each feather contains a little air, and there is also an 
inunenae qnantity of air between each row of feathers. 

Toa will perhaps be snrprised to bear that very little heat 
can pass throagh air, as it is a non-cot) dnctor. In Bassia, 
where the winters are very severe, honses are bailt with 
donbie windows, so that there shall be a space between them 
which, of course, is filled with air. This wall of air preventB 
the heat that is in the room &om going out. Perhaps yon 
have noticed a poor little canary, that has been left all 
night in a cold room, how large its feathers have become 
during the night, they spread ont so that its head becomes 
nearly bnried in t^em. By spreading ont the feathers in this 
way room was made for more air to get in between them and 
the feathery and the air prevented the heat &om escaping. 

We could not very well use feathers to cover us aa clothes, 
bat we can wear aninal textores, snob as far, or cloth and 
6annel, which are made from wool. 

Here is some wool that has come &om a sheep's back. 
It looks and feels very light, because it contains a greai deal 
p,„ J, of air. When this wool is woven into 

flannel or cloth there will be a great 
many httle spaces between eaoh thread, 
anoh as you see in this magnified piece 
of cloth. AU these spaces will be filled 
I with air, so tbat the cloth and the air 
ill protect us from (be cold. 

People should be very oarefiil to air 

woollen clothee that have bees bung up in 

ifDMgt^M). damp rooms or passt^ee; the air (b^ is 

contained in the clothes will be damp and give them oold. 
Woollen clothes are light and warm like feathers, and allow 
the perspiration to pass through them, which makes them very 
healtiiy. Loose clothes are mnoh warmer than tight clothes, 
as you well know if yon have ever worn a pair of tight boots, 
for yonr feet, if it is cold weather, will always be oold in 
them. A man's dress is much warmer than a woman's, not 
only because his clothes are woollen bat because thej arc 
made so much looser, so that a great deal of air can remain 
between theiu. A man who wears a flannel shirt, a cloth 



J ' 


•*•'--. 


s , , 


' '.\ ■ 


5 ' 


' ■ ■ . 






= , , 1 


i i ! ; 



WOOL, COTTON, LIHEN. 95 

waistcoat, and cloth ooat has tbree walla of air to protect bis 
body. No wonder women can bear ao much Jeas cold tban 
men wben we think that very often they are clothed entirely 
in cotton or Itnen, and that theae cold mate- Fra.' i. 

rials are bound close to their bodies by tight 
atays, which prevents the blood &om circala- 
ting. If Ton conld eee a thread or fibre of 
wool yon woold find it has scales ; theae acales 
give wool a rongh feeling. Wool also feels 
very warm to the tonch, beoanae it sacks up 
the heat from yonr hand instead of letting it 
pass through it. If yon cannot tell by the 
toach whether a material ia made of wool or ^ 
cotton, yoa ahoald unravel a bit of the mate- 
rial and yoa will soon see how hairy it is if it 
is made of wool. The hair of all animab is taii' """"""^ " 
BCaly, like wool. Qovemment inapectors expect girls to 
know the difference between woollen, cotton, and linen mate- 
rials. 

All clothea which are made &om vegetable stmctnrea, snch 
as linen and cotton, are very cold, because they do ^ow the 
hot air to paea through them, bnt hold a great deal of water 
or perspiration, as they are poroos. They are also more closely 
woven t(»rether and therefore 

1. .-..1 ■ , 1. . Fig. 6. Fio. tt. 

allow very little air to collect 

in the spaces between t^e 

threads. Wben yoa get into 

bed don't you find the sheets 

very cold? The linen or cotton 

that the sheets are made of lets 

the heat of your body pass 

through into the blankets; but 

if yon get into the blankets 

you, soon find yourself very 

warm becanse the wool and ^ ^^^ ^^ ^^^ ^ g^^ ^ ^^ 

the air in the blankets pre- magnMsd i«i mognued iiis 

vent yonr heat from escaping. 

Here is a drawing of a cotton and a liiica thread. The 
linen thread ia round and smooth, the cotton is flat and 



96 EIGHTEENTH LESSON. 

twisted and has sharp edges. Linen, therefore, feels and is a 
mnch sofber material than cotton, and for that reason is used 
to cover woands. 

Yon must examine the drawing of a linen thread (fig 5.), 
and compare it with the cotton one (fig. 6). The cotton 
material does not feel so smooth, but I think you will say that 
cotton feels warmer than linen. You are right; the cotton 
feels warmer to the tonch, becanse it does not let the heat 
from your hand pass away too quickly, and it also does not 
hold as much water or perspiration. However much yon 
perspire in a flannel-shirt it nev.er sticks like a cold plaster 
to your skin, as a linen one does after violent perspiration. 
Doctors say flannel should be worn both summer and winter, 
so that when we perspire the skin may not be chilled. Fur- 
nace men and all persons who work in warm rooms ought 
to be covered with flannel. Linen cannot be worn, ErasmoB 
Wilson says, in hot climates, because the perspiration it holds 
soon gets very cold and chills the body very quickly. 

I must say a few words about clothing that is made of 
fur, leather, and feathers. Nothing can be warmer than a 
far cloak. It also has the same property as wool in allowing 
the perspiration &c., to pass away. The only place where fup 
is not a safe clothing is when worn round the throat, as it 
keeps that part so warm that it becomes very tender and the 
far-covering cannot be done without. You will find that 
people cease to suffer from sore-throats when they merely 
wear a silk tie, which is sufficiently warm, silk being an 
animal texture. The reason it feels so smooth is because the 
fibres are round. Silk comes next in warmth to cotton ; it 
does not hold so much moisture. Professor Tyndall says 
that the hairs of a hare are the most perfect non-conductors. 
Down covers are delightfally warm and light, and healthy 
too, as they do not retain the perspiration. You must re- 
member what I said about the eider duck. 

Mackintosh is a very dangerous clothing, as no perspira- 
tion can pass through it. I have a bag here which is made 
of it. You see it can hold water as perfectly as if it were a 

jag. 

This piece of felt is made of hair and wool, and has a 



diOTHisa. 97 

wonderftil power of keeping anythiog hot or ixtld that it 
covera. I will tell yon more about this cnriona material 
another time. AE materials that are made of animal strtiotnre 
require to he kept very olean, beoaiiBe germs of disease caa 
live for a long time in them, aa they feed on the material ; 
for instance, moths mnltiply rapidly in fkr and cloth. The 
hnman hair also reqnires to be kept clean for the same 
reason. Unfortunately people have an idea that a Simnel 
shirt can be worn longer than a linen one, bnt 
this is a great mistake. The hair of onr heads 
is very nearly the same sabetance as wool, fea- 
thers, and ftir. Some people hare Bnoh tender 
skins that they cannot beu- flannel, or even silk 
shirts, to toooh them. In these cases, which are 
rare, linrai mnst be worn next the sHn and the 
silk or woollen over that. 

Ton will perhaps wonder, after what I have 
said about ab having the power to prevent heat 
from escaping throngh it, why it is necessary we A. bomaa luir 
sbonld wear clothes at all. You must remember 
the air that surroands our bodies is made up of httle par- 
ticles of matter ; these warm particles are constantly being 
carried off by the wind, and cold ones come to fill their places. 



NINETEENTH LESSON. 



This tumbler is filled with the brewers' yeast whloh your 
mothers use in making bread. It only looks, as you can see, 
like a brown froth or foam. For hundreds of years learned 
men did all they could with their naked eyes to find ont what 
thie wonderfol yeast could be which kept constantly working 
and growing more instead of less. With all their looking 
they could discover nothing more than yon can see, uutU 
magnifying glasses were invented about 2(X) years i^. Then 



98 NniTETEENTH LESSON, 

a Butclonaii called Leeawenlioek took one of these gbfiaee, 
examined a small quantity of yeast, and to his great astonish- 
'ment disoovered that it consisted of thousands of little bags 
or cells called tomlsB. It was no wonder that the learned 
men who had no magnifying glasses oonld not see these little 
bags, as they are so smiJl that 3,000 of them will only cover 
a sqnare inch. Soon after this discovery a Frenclunan — 
Gagniard de la Tour — made some more experiments, and 
fonnd that each of these little bags was a plant which grew 
very, very quickly, one out of another, when put into sugar 
and water, just as soap-bubbles come one out of another in a 
chain when blown through a tobacco-pipe. K you look at 
the illustration on page 23, you can see a single yeast 
plant, and also a chain of them fastened together. The 
Frenchman Gagniard de la Tour next found out that these 
little plants not only grew very quickly in sugar and water, 
but that they changed the sugar and water into two new 
substances— carbonic acid gas and the spirit called alcohol, 
which makes people tipsy when they take beer, wine, brandy, 
or any drinks csdled fermented drinks. You all know, of 
course, that every plant is a living creature, and therefore 
cannot live unless it has air to breathe called oxygen gas, as 
well as food to eat. Helmholtz, another scientific man, deter- 
mined he would discover how the little yeast plant managed 
to get oxygen gas when it was buried in sugar and water. 
Afber watching for a long time he found the wonderful little 
creature had the power of separating the sugar, which is 
made of three things— carbon, a hard substance, and two 
gases, hydrogen and oxygen. The yeast plant breathed as 
much of the oxygen as it required, and all that was left of the 
oxygen joined again directly with the carbon and hydrc^n 
gas and made two new substances — alcohol and carbonic acid 
gas — because there was not enough of the three things — 
oxygen, hydrogen, and carbon — left to form into sugar agair. 
I will now tell you how the spirit, or alcohol and carbonio 
acid gas, which is in beer is made. The brewer first makes u 
juice called sweet wort by mashing up malt and hops together 
in a boiler. When this juice is just lukewarm it is pounv 
into a big, open tub called a vat^ and a small quantity cf 



TEA8T. 99 

brewers' yeast is poured in. The yeast grows very qnickly — 
first, because it finds plenty of sagar to feed on that comes 
out of the malt ; and secondly, because the sweet wort was 
luke-warm, which is just the heat in which the plant can 
work best. Oreat heat, 150^ kills it. Cold does not kill, 
only stupefies and shrivels it up so that it cannot work. 
You must remember these facts. 

The yeast is very light, and therefore floats and covers 
the top of the vat. As it rises the brewer skims it off and 
sells it to any one who wants any. After a certain time the. 
sugar is all eaten up, so that the yeast plant gives up working, 
or fermenting as it is called. The sweet wort has then been 
changed into beer, which contains a great deal of carbonic 
acid gas and spirit. The beer after a short time is poured 
into barrels and corked up. The white foam that rises to the 
top of a glass of beer is not yeast, but little bubbles of air 
filled with carbonic acid gas. It is this gas that makes ginger- 
beer, lemonade, champagne, &c., taste sharp, and forces the 
corks out of the bottles. Carbonic acid gas is often made by 
mixing soda and tartaric acid together in water. I will now 
make some of this gas in this way, and you will see how the 
water in this tumbler will be filled with air bubbles of car- 
bonic acid gas, which will rise up and fall over the sides of 
the tumbler. 

Bakers who make bread without yeast mix soda and tar- 
taric acid in some way in the water with which they mix the 
flour into dough. The air-bubbles of carbonic acid gas spread 
through the dough, raise it up, and make it light. This is 
called aerated or unfermented bread. Bread is called fer- 
mented when yeast is used. The yeast is mixed with luke- 
warm water and stirred up^in the flour, which contains sugar 
that the yeast feeds upon and changes into alcohol and the 
carbonic acid gas that spreads through the dough and makes 
it light. When all the sugar in the flour is eaten up the 
yeast gives up working. When dough is put into the oven 
it rises up for the first few minutes, because warmth makes 
the yeast grow, but the heat soon becomes so great that it 
kills it. You must watch the next bakiug-day and see how 
dough rises and puffs up on first being put into the oven, 

104775 



100 NINETEENTH LESSON. 

and then remains still. The alcohol or spirit is sent oat of 
the dough by the heat into the oven. 

German yeast is the same as brewers' yeast, only it has 
been dried. Thongh it is called German yeast it is made at 
Rotterdam, a town in Holland, in the following way. The 
yeast is spread with a brush over a wooden board. When 
this layer is dry another layer is placed over the top of it 
until a thick cake is formed. If kept in a very cool, dry 
place, it is said that German yeast will keep for two years. 
It is very difficult to get good German yeast in the summer 
time, because the great heat kills it during the voyage, and 
then it becomes bad like any other dead and rotten vegetable. 
Cooks use a great deal more German yeast in the summer, 
because it often happens that only half of the ^east they put 
into the flour is living ; the dead part of course gives the 
bread a disagreeable taste. I should think if fresh Gkrman 
yeast were put in a very clean jar surrounded by ice it could 
be preserved for some time during the summer, as cold sta- 
pefies the plant and prevents it from working. Yeast can be 
kept for a short time in a thick syrup of sugar, but we found 
it was necessary to take a large jar, because the yeast grew 
so quickly that it would soon have come out of the top or 
have burst the jar had it been corked up. 

The air we breathe is full of the yeast plant. We know 
this to be a foot by the way wine is made. When all the 
juice has been squeezed out of the grapes it is put into a big 
open vat or tub, such as brewers use in making beer. The 
grape juice soon begins to ferment and contain a greal deal 
of spirit and carbonic acid gas, though no yeast or anything 
else has been put in. The yeast falls into it from the axr, as 
the vat is open. The juice in hot countries is just the heat 
the plant likes, and contains a great deal of sugar. 

Plants like the yeast plant are called fungi, and it is said 
there are no less than 150,000 different kinds. The largest 
are mushrooms, which we eat and pickle. Thousands that 
float in the air are much smaller than even the yeast plants ; 
24,000 will only cover a square inch ! They float about in 
the air when it becomes damp, and contains the kind of food 
they like. Some live in drians, others in bad water, milk. 



FUNGI. 101 

or foods of any kind, and make them ferment, and tnm 
sonr, mouldy, or putrid. Professor Tyndall and many other 
learned men say that if we could prevent the air we breathe 
firom getting into our meat or foods they would never go bad, 
as cooks say, or have an unpleasant smell, only crumble away 
in time, like a mummy that has been wrapped up so well that 
no air could get to the flesh. Preserved meats keep as long 
as the tin cover is &stened down, but directly it is opened the 
meat becomes unwholesome and putrid. 

You would not think that these plants could get through 
an egg-shell, but they do. An egg-shell is covered with 
thousands of tiny holes, through which the fresh air enters 
for the little chicken to breathe. Well, through these holes 
the fungi send some long threads, and soon change the good 
egg into a rotten one filled with bad gases, which are light. 
A bad egg will for this reason float if put into water, and a 
good egg will sink to the bottom. If you want to keep eggs 
for some months in the winter you must either cover over the 
shell with grease, so that nothing can enter the holes, or put 
them into lime-water. A piece of quick lime is used for this 
purpose. 

Preserves often ferment and sometimes burst the bottles, 
owing to the carbonic acid gas made by the fungi that were 
in the air in the bottles when the preserves were poured in. 
Our bottled firuit keeps perfectly, because our cook takes 
great care to use very hot, clean, dry bottles, fills them quite 
to the top, and covers them instantly with a bladder, or pours 
hot grease over the top or oil. We only use one pound of 
sugar to three pounds of fruit, and boil them for twenty 
minutes. Of course no preserves will keep unless the fruit is 
freshly gathered in dry weather. 

Fungi cannot grow unless they have some water or mois- 
ture. Dry pure air shrivels them up. Preserves grow 
mouldy because they are put in a cupboard through which 
no dry air can pass. Bread grows mouldy if shut up in a 
damp pantry or in a jar through which air cannot pass. 
There is a great deal of moisture in bread, which should be 
able to pass out through a lid with holes, and the bread-pan 
should be kept very clean and dry, and be unglazed ; then the 



102 HINET£EHTH LBSSQH. 

air can get through the pot and carry away the damp tliat 
rifles from the bread. Damp walls are soon c o vered with the 
same kind of moold made by fongL 

How Tery different are these small invisible plants horn 
the plants we can see, which bear green leaves and flowers 
that delight our eyes, purify the air in oor honses, and Hye 
upon food they find in the earth, air, and water ; while fimgi 
feed on the foods we eat, called organic foods, and make them 
unwholesome and poisonous. It is a comfort to know that if 
our houses are very clean, have no diriy comers, and the 
windows are kept open and bright, so that plenty of sunshine 
and fresh air can enter, we shall not be troubled with fnngi, 
because fresh, dry air contains a great deal of oxygen gas, 
and oxygen gas seems to kOl or shrivel them up. If cooks 
understood the nature of these plants, they would take care 
to have very clean pans, leave no food in them, and make 
their larders and kitchens very sweet. Housemaids would 
also take care to remove all dust from the furniture, Ac^ and 
constantly shake the dasters out of the window, as dust is a 
favourite place for fungi. Professor Tyndall not long ago 
proved by a beautiful experiment that the air in crowded, 
unventUated rooms was full of organic matter and Hving 
things which feed on it. 



INDEX 



AERATED bread, 99 
Air, a non-condnctor of heat, 
94.97 

— germs infesting the. See Germs. 

— presence of the yeast plant in, 
100 

— pulre, a requisite for the kitchen, 5 
Albumen, nntritiye qualities of, 

24, 31 

— indigestibility of, 31, 57, 66 

— effect of heat on, 33, 34, 58 
Alcohol, how produced, 98 
America, clothing of children in, 

92 
Animal foods, 30 

— constituents of, 51 

— waj^ of boiling so as to keep all 
the juices in, 76 

Arrowroot, 86 



BAKERS, dishonest use of the oven 
by, 28 
Baking of bread, 28 

— of pastry, 48 
Barley-water, directions for making, 

62 

Basting, 38 

Batter pudding without eggs, re- 
ceipt for, 68 

Beef, economical character of, as 
food. 71 

— directions for roasting, 37 
Beefsteak, directions for cooking, 

34,56 
Beef-tea, ' strongest,' directions for 
making, 60 

— 'whole,' directions for making, 
64,67 

Blood, action of, in fevers, 61 



CHI 

Blood, purity of, deriyed from vege- 
table foods, 42, 51 

— temperature of^ 92 

* Body-warmers,* 41, 54, 76 
Boiling, art of, 77 

— effects of, on food, 31, 70 
Bones, boiling of, for soup, 71 
Bottle, feeding, 16 

Brass utensils, danger of using, 3 
Bread, nutritive value of, 42 

— directions for baking, 28 

— proper way of keeping, 80, 101 

— aerated or unfermcnted, 99 

— cakes, receipt for, 26 
' Brig,' explanation of, 4 

Broth, sheep's head, receipt for, 82 
Buns, currant, seed, and rock, re- 
ceipts for, 30 

— directions for making, 28 
Butyric acid, 56 



CABBAGE, how to wash and cook, 
38 

— directions for pickling, 79 
Caf6-au-lait, the French, 84, 90 
Caffeine, 83 

Cagniard de la Tour, experiments 

on the yeast plant made by, 98 
Cakes, bread, receipt for, 26 
Carbon, 6 
Carbonic acid gas, 5, 98, 99 

— produced by yeast, 23 

— artificial production of, 99 
Carrot soup, 72 

Cassava meal, 86 

* Casual Ward,' the picture so called, 

89 
Chapped hands, remedy for, 5 
Chilblains, cause of, 93 



104 



INDEX. 



CHI 

Children, rales for the diet of, 89-91 

— effects of a ' starch diet ' in, 86 
Chopping or mincing, 42, 45, 65 
Cinders, utility of, 7 
Clarifying, 49 

Cleaning, 14-20 

Cleanliness, need of^ in the kitchen- 
maid or cook, 4 
Cloth, woollen, texture of, 94 
Clothing, need of, 97 

— prevalent errors concerning, 91- 
93 

— choice of materials for, 93 

— cotton and linen, 95 

— fur, leather, and feather, 96 

— woollen, 94 

Cloths, kitchen, best material for, 
14, 45 

— washing of, 15 

Cocoa, directions for making, 83, 87 
Coffee, nutritive value of, as com- 
pared with tea and cocoa, 88 

— the proper way of making a cup 
of, 84 

Cold, effects of, on the blood-vessels, 
92 

— effects of, on the brain, 93 
Cooking, the art o^ 31, 34, 84 
Cooks, outfit recommended for, 11 

— rules for cleanliness in, 4 
Cooks, French, superiority of, 31, 52 

— English, faults of, 32 
Com-fiour, 86 

Cornish pasties, receipts for, 53, 55 
Copper utensils, danger of using, 3 
Cotton, properties of^ as a clothing 

material, 95 
Cupboard, arrangement of the, 1 

— dimensions of the, 12 

— ut«nsils required in the, 12 
Currant buns, receipt for, 30 
Currant pudding, receipt for, 43, 46 
Custard, directions for cooking, 67 

— receipt for, 68 

DAMPER, use of the, 8 
Decomposition, cause of, in 
food, 100 
Dinner service, how to wash, 16 
Dinners, lessons on, 36, 41, 46, 51, 56 
Dough, making of, 22 

— ingredients o^ and their propor- 
tion, 25 



FOO 

Dough, reason of the rising produced 

by ;^east in, 23, 99 
Dripping, 37 

— how to clarify, 47, 49, 50 ' 

— pastty-making with, 48 
Drunkenness, mistakes made by the 

police with regard to, 89 
DumpUngs, suet, directaons for 
making, 78, 82 



EARTHENWARE, utility of, 80 
Eggs, digestibility of, 66 

— preservation of, 101 

— proper way of cooking, 33 

— poaching, 33 

— how to cook without boiling, 36 

— hard-boiled, for sandwichee, 35, 
36 

— beaten up with milk or wine^ 66, 
68 

Eider duck, skin of, 93 
Enamel, danger of, as a coating for 
utensils, 3 



FACTORY children, Dr. Fergu- 
son's statement ooncemin^ §6 
Fasting, long, conditions explaining, 

88 
Fat, insolubility of, in water, 49 

— difficulty of cooking, 56 

— consumption of, in the body, 41 
Feeding bottles, 16 

Felt, heat-preserving properties of, 

22,97 
Fermentation, 99, 100 
Fevers, diet in, 61 
Fire, proper way of laying a, 6 
Fish, nutritive value of, 42 

— directions for washing, 43 

— how to know fresh from stale, 43 

— directions for frying, 67 
Flannel, advantage of wearing next 

to the skin, 96 
Flesh-formers, 54 
Flour, constituents of, 24, 82 

— best kind of, 25 

— proper way of keeping, 80 
Flues, oven, how to dean, 8 
Foods, animal, 80 

— mineral, 51, 53, 62, 72 

— vegetable, 25, 31 



INDSX. 



105 



FOO 

Foods, * body-vapming,' or fat- 
formers, 41 

— digestibilitj of, 38, 44, 46, 66, 66, 
69,71 

— seasons o^ 42 

— for children, 85, 89 

— for invalids, 33, 59-68, 71 
Fowls, tmssing of, 77 

French, saperiority of the, as cooks, 
31,52 

— servant girls^ 10 

Fruit pnddjng, baked, receipt for, 

74,75 
Fruits, dried, importance of washing 

before nse, 28, 29 

— preserved, 101 
Frying, the art of, 56. 
Fungi, 100 

Fur, properties of, as a clothing 
material, 96 

GAS-STOVE, cooking by, 4 
— consumption of gas in, 13 
Gelatine, nutritive qualities of, 24, 69 

— employment of, in soups, &c., 70 
German silver, cleaning of, 20 
Germs, atmospheric, 16, 19, 62, 80, 

100, 102 

— degree of heat required for kill- 
ing. 16 

Golden syrup, explanation of, 73 
Gravy, 39 
Grilling, art of, 34 

— receipt for, 36 

Gruel, milk, receipt for, 63, 64 

— water, receipt for, 63, 64 

EADDOCK, baked, 41 
— stuffing for, 43 
' Hardening/ so called, of children, 

92 
Hardinfr, for making kitchen cloths, 

14, 45 
Hasty pudding, receipt for, 78 
Heartburn, cause of, 56 
Helmholtz, his observations on the 

yeast plant, 98 
Herbs, dried, directions for storing, 

79 

INDIGESTION, symptoms of, due 
to food, 56 j 



MIL 



Infants, clothing of, 91 

— food of, 86 

Insanity cured by good food, 90 

Invalid, dinner for an, 67 



JAM turnover, directions for mak- 
ing, 48 
Jelly, 69 



KITCHEN, ventiUtion of the, 5 
— apparatus required for, 12 
Kitcheners, 4 
Kitchenmaids, rules for cleanliness 

in, 4 
— outfit recommended for, 11 
Knives, cleaning of, 19 



LEEUWENHOEK, discovery of 
the torulse of yeast by, 97 
Lemon-juice, employment of, as a 

remedy for scurvy on board ships, 

52 
Lettuce, round worm occasioned by 

eating, 53 
Lime, nutritive properties of, 24 
linen, properties of, as a clothing 

material, 95 



MACARONI, directions for cook- 
ing, with cheese, 82, 87 
Mackintosh, dangerous nature of, as 

a clothing material, 96 
Maizena, 86 

Mashed potatoes, receipt for, 58, 59 
Marjoram, dried, 79 
Meat, way of keeping, 2 

— buying of, 36, 53 

— necessity of washing before cook- 
ing, 37 

— the most wholesome way of 
cooking, 38 

— cold, unsuitability of for in- 
valids, 65 

— salted, injurious effects of, 85 

— soup, receipt for, 75 
Meats, preserved, 85, 101 
Milk, nutritive value of, 59, 61 

— injurious effects of boiling on, 60 

— protection of, from germs, 62 



106 



INDEX. 



MIL 

Milk, the kind of, suitable for chil- 
dren, S6 

— gruel, receipt for, 63, 64 

— preserved, 86 

— jugs, particular directions for 
washing, 16 

Hinerals, relative amount of, in 
animal and vegetable foods, 51 

Mint, dried, 79 

Mushrooms, 100 

Mutton, greater digestibility of, than 
beef, 71 

— chop, how to cook, 34, 66 

— minced, receipt for, 68 

NURSE, duties of the, 62 
Nursery, diet for the, 91 

OATMEAL porridge, directions 
for making, 87, 88 
Onion sauce, receipt for, 47, 60 
Onions, receipt for pickling, 79, 81 
Osmazome, 37, 60, 84 
Oswego corn-flour, 86 
Oven, explanation of the, 7 

— use of the damper in, 8 

— how to clean the flues in, 8 

— degree of heat required in, for 
bread and pastry baking, 27, 49 

— dishonest use of the, 28 
Oxygen gas, 6, 16, 38, 86, 102 

PARSLEY, dried, 79 
Pasties, Cornish, receipts for, 
63, 66 
Pastry, light, directions for making 

and baking, 48 
Peas, nutritive value of, 76 
Pea soup, directions for making, 76, 

78 
Perspiration, removal of, by woollen 

clothing, 94 
Phosphorus, nutritive properties of, 

24 
Pickled cabbage, directions for mak- 
ing, 70 

— onions, receipt for, 79, 81 
Pie, potato, 63 

Poaching eggs, 33 

Pork, directions for roasting, 49 

— disease occasioned by eating, 49 



BIG 

Porridge, oatmeal, directions for 

making, 87, 88 
Pot-au-feu, the French, 73 
Potash in fruits and vegetables, 62, 

64 
Potato pie, 63 

— surprise, directions for making, 
66,68 

— starch, 86 

Potatoes, greater digestibility of 
baked than boiled, 44 

— necessity of eating with salt 
meat, 86 

— how to wash and cook, 34 
bake, 44 

— mashed, receipt for, 58, 59 
Poultry, how to tell old from young, 

77 

Preserve (or treacle) roly-poly, re- 
ceipt for, 73, 76 

Preserves, prevention of fermenta- 
tion in, 101 

Prisons, faults of cooking in, 72 

Pudding, directions for boiling a, 44 

— baked, the great secret of making. 
73 

— baked fruit, receipt for, 74, 75 

— baked rice, receipt for, 57, 58 

— batter, without eggs, receipt for. 
68 

— currant, receipt for, 43, 46 

— hasty, receipt for, 78 

— savoury, receipt for, 47, 50 

— suet, with either currants or 
raisins, receipt for, 43, 46 

— treacle, 73 

— Yorkshire, receipt for, 39 

— steaming, 74 

— cloth, proper way of washing, 45 



QUICKSILVER, expansion of, bj 
heat, 27 



RABBITS, directions for boiling 
76 
Reoon, explanation of, 3 
Reyalenta arabica, 83 
Rice, moulds of, 83 
— pudding, baked, receipt for, 67. 
I 68 
1 — scattered, receipt for, 54, 55 



INDBX. 



107 



BIG 

Bickets due to faxltj nutrition, 86 
Soasting, the most vholesome way 

of cooking meat, 38 
— time required for, 36, 50 
Boly-poly, treacle, receipt for, 78, 

76 



SAGE, dried, 79 
Sago, 86 
Sailors, former sufferings of, from 

scurvy, 51 
Salad sauce, receipt for, 52 
Salmon, 42 

Salt, its destructave effects on grubs, 
slugs, &c., 38, 58 

— meat, deficient nourishing power 
of, 85 

Sand, Calais, 14 
Sandwiches, egg, 35 

— receipt for, 36 

Sauce, onion, receipt for, 47, 50 

— salad, receipt for, 52 ' 
Saucepans, brass and copper, danger 

of using, 3 

— enamelled and tinned, objections 
against, 2 

— iron, advantages o^ 2 

— method of cleaning, 18 

— proper way of stowing, 2 
Schools, diet for children in, 90 
Scurry, former sufferings of sailors 

from, 51 

— cause of, 85 

Semolina, mould of, directions for 

maJdng, 83, 87 
Sheep's head, directions for boiling, 

78 
Sick, food for the, 59-68, 71 
Silk, properties of, as a clothing 

material, 96 
Simmering, 32 
Sink, how to dean, 19 
Sitting-room, temperature of, 93 
Skin, diseases of, due to starvation, 

89 
Soap, impropriety of cleaning cook- 
ing utensils with, 14 
Soda, use of, in cleaning cooking 

utensils, 14 
Soot, heat-retarding properties 

18 
♦Soup, boiling injurious to, 70 



TRI 

Soup, carrot, 72 

— meat, receipt for, 75 

— pea, directions for making, 76, 
78 

— vegetable, directions for making, 
72,75 

Starch, nutritive qualities of, 24, 42 

— presence of m vegetables the 
cause of their swelling when 
cooked, 39 

— list of substances composed of, 
86 

Starvation, Dr. Chambers's descrip- 
tion of, 89 
Stock, uses of, 18, 69 

— preparation of, 70 

Stomach, acid in the, caused by eat- 
ing fat, 56 
Stuf&ig for baked haddock, 43 
Suet, nutritive value of, 42 

— pudding with either currants or 
raisins, receipt for, 48, 46 

— dumplings, directions for making, 
78,82 

Sugar, nutritive value of, 42 

— use of, in preserving milk, 85 
SwiU-tubs, 19, 44 



TAPEWORM in children from 
eating raw or unwashed greens, 
38 
Tapioca, 86 
Tea, nutritive value of, as compared 

with cocoa, 83 
Teacakes, how to make, 28 

— receipt for, 30 
Tea-things, how to wash, 16 
Theobromine, 83 

Thermometer, use of, in bread bak- 
ing, 27 

— in frying, 56 

Throat, sore, obviated by wearing a 

silk neck-tie, 96 
Thyme, dried, 79 
Tin, danger of, as a coating for 

utensils, 3, 18 
Toast, dry, receipt for, 68 
Torulse of yeast, 98 
Tous-les-mois, 86 
Treacle pudding, 73 
* Trichina ' in pork, 49 
Tripe, directions for cooking, 46 



108 



INDEX. 



TBU 



Trnssmg, poultry, 77 
Tumover, jam, dizections for mak- 
ing. 48 



TTTENSILS, kitchen, lists of, 12 
U — cost of, 12, 81 

— best materials for, 2, 3 

— method of .cleaning, 14, 20 



T7EAL cutlets, how to fry, 56 
Y Vegetable foods, explanation 
0^ 25, 31 

— constituents of, 39, 51 
Vegetable soup, directions for 

making, 72, 75 
Vegetables, need of, for the preser- 
vation of health, 52 

— why considered indigestible foods 
in England, 38 

— how to tell stale firom fresh, 53 

— French way of cleaning, 53 

— reason why they swell when 
cooked, 39 

Ventilation, necessity of, in the 

kitchen, 5 
Verdigris, 3, 18 



W 



TOB 



ATEB, presence of, in food, 
the cause of decompositicm, 

85 
Weighing by measure, 25 
Welsh < fasting-girl,' the, 88 
Wine, fermentation of, 100 
Women, clothing of, 95 
Wool, utili^ o^ as a dothing 

material, 94 
Working people, most suitable food 

for, 41 
— uxihealthy appearance of, due 

to abstention from firuit and 

vegetables, 52 
Worm, round, produced by eating 

lettuce unwashed, 58 
Wort) sweet, of beer, 98 



YEAST, nature and properties of, 
23, 97 

— proportion in which to be used, 
25 

— preservation of in summer, 24, 
100 

— torulse of, 98 

— manufacture of, 100 
Yorkshire pudding, receipt for, 39. 

41 



LONDON I PUHTKD BT 

SPOTTI8W0ODN AND 00., NBW-8TBKET SQUABX 

AKO PABLZAXBNT BTBBXT 



I 



\X 



• •*> 



^ 



^L 7 - W9 





