E3 |J< MfS 

|]Sducational ^efies 




r 



HEALTH IN THE HOUSE 
Birckton. 




/&s 



^C' 



W\\Uv & tfo '$ tf (Utcatioual ^cym. 



HEALTPI IN THE HOUSE 



TWENir-FIVE LECTURES ON ELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY 
IX ITS APPLICATION TO THE DAILY WANTS OF 
MAN AND ANIMALS, DELIVERED TO THE 
WIVES AND CHILDREN OF WORK- 
ING-MEN IN LEEDS AND 
SALTAIRE. 



CATHERINE M. BUCKTON, 

MEilEEH OF Ta£ LEEDS SCHOOL EOAr.D. 



AUl-TORIZED BY THE MINISTER OF EDUCATIOlf. 



TENTH EDITION. 



TORONTO: 
ADAM MILLER & Co 
1870. 



Entered according to Act of the Pavliampnt of Canndn, in tlip year one 
thousand eight hundred and scvenly-seven, hy Adam Milled i<. 
Co., in the Ofliee of the Minister of Agriculture. 




PREFACE 



THE SIXTH EDITION. 



It ii now six months since this little book was first issued, ana 
in that time it has attained a success beyond my most sanguine 
expectations. In preparing this new edition I have availed, 
myself of the criticisms sent me by several of the scicntiSc 
men whose books I studied, and I have also benefited by 
reading the numerous reviews which have appeared. I am 
glad to be permitted to mention that Mr. ■\Iai:siiall, F.R.S., 
who kindly gave me his advice during the revision of the 
original manuscript, has rendered me still farther indebted to 
him by carefully reading tbrou.^h the book for the purpose of 
this edition ; and by these means it has, I hope, been much 
improved. The present edition is published in a cheaper form, 
in accordance with numerous suggestions which have been 
made to me for extending its influence. I hope that my 
Lectures will, therefore, now come within the reach o£ those 
for whom they were originally written. 



CATHERINE M. BUCKTON. 



4 Moorland Terrace : 
Feb. Ath. 1876. 



Digitized by tine Internet Arciiive 
> in 2009 witii funding from 
Ontario Council of University Libraries 



http://www.archive.org/details/1879healthinhouse00buck 



PREFACE 



THE FIRST EDITION 



Haying had two -winters' experience in giving Lectures on 
Physiology and the Laws of Health to the wives and daughters 
of working-men in Leeds and Saltaire, I ventured to hope I 
might be able to make the same instruction interesting and 
intelligible to boys and girls in our Board schools, from the 
ages of ten to twelve. With the aid and concurrence of my 
colleagues on the School Boaixl, about ninety children of both 
sexes, in Standards IV., V., and YL, were collected into one 
centre during the winter of 1874. As I wished to find out 
whether the children were really interested in my Lectures, 1 
fixed upon an hour in the afternoon when their schooltime 
was over, and explained clearly that I only desired to have 
those who were anxious to come and could understand what I 
told them. 

The following Lectures contain the substance of my 
teaching. 

I must claim the indulgence of the educated public for the 
extreme simplicity of my style, and for the tautology which so 
frequently appears. They must kindly remember that my 
whole endeavour was to tell my story in language that would 
be understood by artisan children from the ages of ten to 
thirteen. 

During five months the attendance averaged fifty. Several 
half-timers were obliged to discontinue coming on account of 



X PREFACE TO THE 

their work. Without one exception, the children proved 
most attentive and polite, and, I am told, looked forward with 
great pleasure to the lectures. The answers sent in weekly 
to my printed questions proved that the most important part 
of the instruction was understood — namely, the necessity for 
fresh air, cleanliness, good food, and the great harni that 
spirits do to the different organs. The germ theory enabled 
me to show^ very clearly the danger of infection. By the aid 
of Anatomy, and F/iysioloji/ or Anatomy in connection with 
Structure, I described the beautiful structure and marvellous 
life of man and animals ; and showed the awful amount of 
suffering that is caused by the cruel and ignorant practices 
of men and women. Physiology, Avhen practically applied, 
becomes a most interesting study to persons of all ages, but 
when taught alone is, I believe, uninteresting, and soon for- 
gotten by all except medical students. 

The boys enjoyed the lectures on food and cooking equally 
with the girls, and it appears to me to be equally important 
that they should understand the properties of foods, and the 
principles on wliich they ought to be cooked. 

To soldiers, sailors, and emigrants, such knoAvledge must 
be of vital importance. I cannot see bow real success can 
attend any scheme for teaching cuuking, unless this inform- 
ation has been previously given. Even a professed cook may 
prove a most extravagant poor man's wife, and a lady may 
attend lectures on cuisine for ever, and still be unable to rear 
a healthy family, and make small means go far. 

During my lectures, I determined to plead the canse of 
dumb animals as well as little children. Great interest was 
taken in all that was related about them. I was pleased to 
observe the strong expressions of disapproval written and 
expressed, when instances were given of the cruel and ignorant 
way in which they were often treated I believe the dreadful 
brutality now practised hj human beings upon each other and 



FIRST EDITION. XI 

upon dumb animals, will not bo reallj diminished until joung 
people are reverently taught how Avonderfullj their bodies are 
made, and the great care that is needed to preserve them in 
hcallh. Xo schools require this instruction so much, as our 
elemcntarj schools, for it is from them we draw our supply 
of nurses, grooms, farm-servants, and butchers. The following 
circumstance shows that instruction of this kind exerts a 
humanising influence. A missionary told me he knew a 
woman who used to beat her children in a very brutal manner, 
Kothing that was said appeared to touch her heart, or change 
her wavs, until she learned from the lectures how delicately 
and wonderfully a child is made ; then her past cruelty pre- 
sented itself in its true light, she was filled with sorrow, and 
ceased to treat her little ones unkindly. 

My lectures were concluded by a visit to our Museum. 
Sevent^y-tlirec of the children met me there, and they all 
locked with great interest at the animals I had described. 
Museums are essentially places for working-men and their 
children, therefore every effort ought to be made to enable 
masters and mistresses to follow up their lessons on natural 
history by visits to these places. At the end of my course of 
twenty-five lectures, I presented to each child fourteen ques- 
tions, which bore on the information I had given respecting 
animals. These will be found in the Appendix, p. 109. Five 
prizes arc to be awarded for the best answers by the Leeds 
branch of the Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Ani- 
mal.-!, at their annual meeting. 

I attributed my success in arousing the interest of my 
hearers to the pains I took to make the matter intelligible and 
attractive, by having models, illustrations, and experiments, 
and by giving the information orally. I was also very 
anxious to impress tlie children with con6dence, so that 
they might come and ask questions id the close of the lecture, 
Prizea, I told them, would be given to those who showed by 



XU PREFACE TO THE 

their answers that they had endeavoured to understand and 
rememher -what I said. This encouraged those who wrote 
and spelt badly to show their intelligence and do their best. 
I always read over the questions before I began the lecture, 
in order to draw attention to the most important facts, and I 
repeated the information which I found from the written 
answers I had failed to make clear in the previous week. My 
only regret was that I had not a larger supply of models, and 
a greater nr.mber of experiments ; for instance, a model of 
+he head and brain, and an experiment to show how water 
can be decomposed by a galvanic current into oxygen and 
hydrogen, and other illustrations which will readily occur to 
experienced teachers. 

Instruction of such vital importance ought only to be 
given by persons who are specially fitted for the work, and 
can be provided with every appliance which science and skill 
can furnish. Directly the people are educated and under- 
stand that fresh air, good water, and cleanly habits, are 
necessary for their health and happiness, they will demand 
model dwellings, and also those sanitary reforms which 
ignorant corporations and thoughtless masters find mistresses 
□ ow withhold from them. 

Mr. Stansfeld expressed this opinion publicly a few weeks 
since at Halifax in the following words : — ' Legislation will 
never make people clean, nor can any sanitary reform be ac- 
complished until the masses are taught the Laws of Health.' 
Saltaire is well known as a model manufacturing town, where 
Sir Titus Salt and his family have done all that sanitary skill 
and money can accomplish. 

Mrs. Titus Salt induced me, last winter, to give a course 
of lectures to their people, as she assured mo that they were 
very anxious to receive the same information I had given in 
Leeds. Experience bore out this statement. My audience 
varied during six winter nights from two to five hundred 



FIRST EDITION. XIU 

working-Tvoinei* .md their daugliters, who received all I had 
to say, as my Leeds friends had done, with the greatest grati- 
tude and eagerness. On. all sides I heard the strongest 
regrets expressed that they had not been taught early in life 
what Gvery woman ought to know. 

My warmest thanks are due to all my fnends in Leeds 
and elsewhere, who have so kindly helped me, either person- 
ally or by their writings, to cull the information contained in 
tliis little volume. 

I should like to express my obligation to Mr. MiRsnALL, 
F.R.S., the distinguished surgeon and physiologist, for the 
advice he was always ready to give during the revision of 
the manuscript. This kindness was doubly appreciated by 
me, as it was rendered voluntarily to the work of a perfect 
stranger. 

I cannot conclude without also mentioning the name of 
Mr. TVheelhodse, F.R.C.S., one of our leading medical men. 
[n the midst of his large practice he has always been ready to 
clear up difficulties which books failed to make plain. From 
the first he gave me his sympathy, and encouraged me to 
carry out my work by the assurance that the efforts made by 
the medical profession to hinder the loss of life and suffering 
caused by preventible diseases will ever prove unavailing 
until ignorant prejudices have been removed by sanitary 
knowledge. 



CONTENTS. 



LECTURE I. 



TUF. AIK WE HKEATUE. 



PAOK I FAGS 

The EequisUes for Good Ileailh 1 S-vrcat and Sweat-glands . . 6 

Oxygen . . . . 2 ! Ntcessiry for using Soap and 

Carbonic Acid . . . . 3 i AVuter 7 



LECTURE II. 



IMTUUE AIR AND Vli.N-TILATIO>'. 



Causes of Fever 
'xreatment of Fever Cases 



Ventilation 
Directions for Sickness 



LECTURE III. 



THE SKELETON. 



Fresh Air needed for Dumb 
Auinals . . .• . 



The Skfletoa 
Tlie Skuil 



LECTFRE IV 



The Skeleton 
Tl-e Spir.e 
The Uip-joint 



SKKLETO.V-JoINTS AXD MUSCLES. 



The Foot 
The Muscles 



31 



LECTURvE V. 



Substances in tlie I'lo^jd . 
Circulation of the lilood . 



TIIK CIRCULATION. 

. 3G I The Arteries 



38 



LECTURE VL 
THE cmcxjLATiON (continued). 



The Capillaries . 
Arteries and Veins 



43 I Varicose Veins . 

45 1 Circulation of Aiiinia's 



XVI 



Carbon 
The Lungs 
The Windpipe 



CONTENTS. 


LECTURE VIL 


KESPIRATION. 


PAGE 
. 49 
. 51 

. 61 


The Heat of the Blood 
The Thermon.eter 



. 53 
. 53 



The Windpipe 
Consuniptiou 
Bronchitis , 



LECTURE VIIL 
RESPIRATION {continued). 



56 
58 
68 



Croup 59 

Treatment ot Drowning Persons 61 



LECTURE IX. 

THE BRAIN AND NERVOUS SYSTEM. 



The Brain . 
^'ertebrate Animals 



The Nervuns S^'stem of a Ilorse 71 
Ihe Horse's Hoof ... 73 



Organs of Digestion 
The Teeth 



LECTURE X. 

DIGESriON, 

. , 76 I The Salivary Glands 
. 76 I The Stoniach . 



Cremation . 
Solid Foods 



LECTURE XL 

DIGESTION [continued). 

. . 82 I The Bile . 

. 82 I The Blood Corpuscles 



84 
85 



LECTURE XII. 

DIQESTION AND CARUONACEOUS FOODS. 



Animal and Vegetable Foods 
Vegetable Body-wai meis . 



The GHstric Juice 
Infant Digestion 



90 
91 



LECTURE XIII. 

CARBONACEOrS AND NlTKOGENOUS FOODS. 



Body-warmers 
Sugar 



Flesh-formers 
The Liver 



xvu 



LECTURE XIV. 

MTEOGEXOTJS AND LIQUID FOODS. 



Bid Effects ot Spirits 
Water and Milk 



PAGE 
. 98 

. 101 



Drink for Animals 



PAGB 

102 



LECTURE XV. 

HULK AND MINERAL FOODS. 



Milk . 
Salts . 


. 104 
. . 106 


Scurvy .... 
Potassium .... 


. 107 
. 108 




LECTURE XVI. 






MLN'EBAL FOODS. 




Soda 

Salts .... 

Water in Food 


. 109 Importance of Water for Aci 
. .110 mals .... 
.112 French Cooking 


114 

116 




lECTURF XVII. 

FOODS. 




riesh-formers 
13ody-warmprs 
Different Effects of Food 


. . 117 1 Cheap Soup . 

119 1 Beef Tea .... 
. . 119 1 

. LECTURE X\^TT 
COOKINO {boiling). 


121 
123 


Vegetable Cooking . 
Potatoes , 


. 124 Boiled Eggs . . . . 
. . 125 Poached Eggs . . . . 

LECTURE XIX. 
COOKING (continued). 


128 

128 


Cooking Apparatus . 
Roasted Joints . 
Rice .... 


. 130 
. . 131 
. . 132 


Macaroni . . . . 
Vegetable Preparations . . 


133 
134 



Vegetable Soup 
Importance of Solid Foods 
Tea .... 



LECTURE XX. 

cooKiNO (continued). 

. 135 I Coffee. 
. . 139 ^ Cocoa 
.141 i Chocolate 



143 
144 
144 



XVUl 



CONTENTS. 



Organs of Plants 
Organic Matter , 



LECTURE XXI. 
cooKixo {concluded). 



PAGE 

145 

146 



Importance of Cleanliness 
Baking 



PAOB 

150 
152 



LECTURE XXII. 

THE NEBVES AXD THE SEXSE OF HEARI.VO. 



The Organs of Hearing . . 1 54 

Fear 155 

Weak Nerves . . . .156 
Evil I-lffects of Laudanum . .157 



Quack Doctors . . .158 
Etfects of Lead-poisoning . . 159 
The Sense of Ilearing . .159 
The Ear lo'J 



LECTURE XXIII. 



TheOra:an of Sight, 
The Eye . 



SIGHT AXD SUXSIIIXE. 



, 164 I Importance of Sunshine 
. 165 ' Day and Night . 



J69 
171 



LECTURE XXIV. 



The Larynx 
Gentle Speech 



THE VOICE. 

. 172 I The Larynx of a Ilorse 
.174 I The Dear ing-Rcin 



176 
170 



LECTURE XXV. 

THE TREATMENT OF AXIIIALS. 



The Elephant . 
Cruelty lo Animals 



178 I Invertebrate Animals 

179 1 CrUL'lty and Kindness , 



. 181 
. 185 



APPENDIX L 



Food Table . . . .187 

Drv Foods 189 

Wet Foods . . . .190 
Foods most Suitable for Health 192 
How to Dress a Scald . . 195 



How to Treat a Person Appa- 
rently Drowned . . IC6 
Directions for Dathing • 196 
Disinfectants . . . . 197 



APPENDIX XL 
Books, Diagrams, and Models 198 



APPENDIX ILL 
Questions on Cruelty to Animals 



199 



LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS. 



Front view of the inside of chest and abdomen. {Marshall) 

VegptiiLle germ — Yeast plant .... 

Microscopic Animal — AmccLa .... 

A front view of the human skeleton. (^Marshall) 

Tho bones of the head. {Dr. Southwood Smith) 

Human skull in a natural state, {Dr. Southuood Smith) 

The skull of a North American Indian. {A. Bidlar) 

The different bones of the spine. {Marshall) . 

The spine. {Marshall) ..... 

Back riew of tho bones of the left hand. (Marshall) . 

Side view of the bones of the left foot. {Marshall) 

Natural foot . ' . 

Chinese foot. (A. Bullar) ..... 

Position of the heart, lungs, liver, and stomach. {Madame 

Bodichoii) ....... 

Tho organs pushed out of their places by tight lacing. {Madame 

Bodichon) ...... 

Tho aorta separated from the heart. {Marshall) 

View of the chest and abdomen. {Marshall) 

View of the heart and its arteries 

The lungs. {Dr. IV. B. Carpenter) 

The top part of the great brain or cerebrum. {Marshall) 

Half the brain. {Marshall) 

Front view of tho contents of tho skull and the spinal column 

{Marshall) ....... 



FAOa 

4 

10 
10 
20 
21 
22 
23 
25 
27 
28 
30 
31 
32 

33 

34 
39 

40 
42 
52 
64 
Go 

66 



LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS. 



FIG. 

23. 
24. 



25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 
36. 
37. 



40. 
41. 
42. 



View of the nerves. (Marshall) .... 
Different shapes of some of the bones that are joined together 

make the spine. {Marshall) 
Organs of a vertebrate animal. {Milne Edu-ar(h) 
Organs of a fish. {Milne Edwards) 
Bony skull and backbone of an ostrich. {B' Alton) 
Skeleton of a horse. (Stulbs) .... 
Side view of the trunk of the body. {Marshall) . 
Diagram showing the stomach and the bowels. (Marshall) 
Blood corpuscles. {Marshall) .... 

Starch grains. ( F. Smith) .... 
Magnified slic^ of a young potato. (S.W.Johnson) 
Vegetable germ — Yeast plant 

Microscopic animal — Amoeba. (Br. W. B. Carpenter) 
View of the larynx. (Marshall) 
The larynx of a horse. (Mayhcw) 
A lobster. (Dr. IF. B. Carpenter) 

An insect. (Br. W. B. Carpenter) , , . 

An oyster. (Br. W. B. Carpenter) 
A st^irfish. (Br. W. B. Carpenter) 
Amoeba. (Br. W. B. Carpenter) , , , 



PAOB 

. 67 



. 68 
. 69 
. 70 
. 71 
. 72 
. 77 
. 83 
. 86 
. 89 
. 126 
. 146 
. 146 
. 173 
. 177 
. 181 
. 182 
. 183 
. 183 
. 186 



HEALTH IN THE HOISE. 

r,i;cTURE I. 

THE A Hi WE BREATHE. 

T HOPE that the instrnction I am going to give yon daring 
these lectures will soon be given to every boy and girl. Mj 
first reason for desiring this is becan^e T know that there 
IS so much sickness, suffering, and death that is entirely 
caused by ignorance about physiology and the laws of 
health. You will see I have written down on this big sheet 
a series of 

Facts that every Man and Woman in Leeds ought to Jnioic. 

NumWr of men and women who died in Leeds in the year 1872, 
from preventible causes, such as Scarlet Fever. Typlius Ferer. 
Small-Pox, &c 1,538 

Number of Children who died in Leeds in 1872, from Fevers, 
Croup, &c., and more especially from the want of a mother's 
care 1.170 

Total number of deaths from all causes . . . . .6,881 

TO ENSURE GOOD HEALTH 
We must have 

Fresh Air, I Good Drains, 

Pure Water, Proper Clothing, 

Wholesome Food, Temperance, 

Clean Houses, Cleanly Habits. 

Clean Streets, 1 

It is \ery sad to think that 1,538 grown-up people and 
i,170 little children died last year in Leeds, and die every 



year, whose lives might have been saved ; bat it is mnch more 
dreadful to know that nearly as many people who partly re- 
covered from these complaints are srill living and suffering 
from diseases left by fevers, small-pox, &c. 

Many fathers and mothers with large families, who werq 
able to work and support them comfortably before they had 
these illnesses, arc now obliged to live in the workhouse. 
Poor little babies grow up to be miserable weak men and 
women, unable to gain their own living, obliged to be de- 
pendent on charity, because their mothers either neglected 
them when they were infants, or were too ignorant to under- 
stand how to bring them up. 

My second reason lor wishing to give you these lectures 
is because I am so grieved to see how cruelly and unkindly 
L-aman beings treat each other, and also how cruelly poor 
dumb animals are used. I feci quite sure that young people 
would not be cruel if they were made early to understand how 
beautifully and wonderfully our bodies are made. I shall 
sliow you that dumb animals, though they cannot tell us how 
much they suH'er, do suffer when they are hurt, because a 
great many of them are made very much like we are, and can 
feel like ourselves. 

You see the tirst thing; I have mentioned as essentially 
necessary, if we are to secure health, is good air. I will tell 
yoa why— because we could live about a week without either 
water or Ibod, but we could not live two minutes without 
air. If a pillow were placed over your mouth and nose, yon 
would be dead in two minutes, because no air could get into 
your lungs. We first draw in a breath of air, and then we send 
out a breath of air. This we do every instant of our lives, 
unless sve have been crying, and then we sob and take in 
two or three breaths of air without letting one out, in this 
manner. 

We breathe so gently and easily when we are well and 
have no cold, that we never think about how we breathe. 
The air we take into our mouths ought to be pure air and 
contain a great deal of the gas that is in this bottle. It is 
called oxygen gas. Kow, this is the most wonderful gas in 
the world, and I shall have a great deal to tell you about it 



UUNV Wh, IJiCb-AlHt. 



b( fore I l;ave done my lectures Yon wonld not think there 
was anything wonderful in this bottle ; it has neither taste 
colour, nor smell ; but it is the gas in this bottle which makes 
onr bodies warm and keeps us alive. Directly we can't have 
any of it we die ; and then you know oar bodies become 
quite cold, like a piece of marble. At the end of my lecture 
I will put this match, with just a tiny spark of light at the 
end of it, into this bottle ; then it will burst into a bright 
flame. 

I must now explain the wonderful effect oxygen gas has 
on our blood. You all know you have a heart, but I dare 
say you 'don't know what it is like, nor where it is placed in 
your bodies. I am glad to tell you I can show you a beau- 
tiful model of a heart; here it is. It is placed nearly in the 
middle of the chest, between the two lungs, as you will see by 
this picture. This wonderful little heart can send the blood 
to eveiy part of our body, from the top of our head to the 
ends of our toes, in less than one minute. The blood is car- 
ried in thousands and thousands of little tubes, or pipes, 
to every part of the body. You know that if you prick 
yourself in any part with a needle, blood comes out. Directly 
we take in a breath of fresh air, the oxygen that is in it turns 
the blood into a beautiful bright red. I have written down 
oxygen uas here in red letters, becau.se it n'akes the blood such 
a beautiful red colour. Look how it is spelt. 

I will now tell you about the air which comes out of our 
mouths. It is as deadly as any poison you could buy at a 
druggist's shop. On a cold day you can see the breath 
coming out of your mouths, and it looks like steam. Breathe 
on a pane of glass, and you will see directly a white film. If 
you were to sit in a room that had no windows, and the door 
was shut fast, so that no fresh air could come in, you would 
soon die. The name of the poisonous gas that comes out 
from our mouths is carbonic acid ; it is written down here in 
black letters, because it turns all our blood dark and thick, 
and this dark blood jioisons the brain, spinal cord, nerves, 
and heart, and so we die. I have got some here in this bottle, 
and I will show you at the end of the lecture how heavy this 
gas is. Like air. it cannot be seen, but T can ponr some of 

u2 



THK AIR WE BKEATHE. 




Fi-ort view of the inside of the cheFt (fTiorox) 7\ti-. aoromm, laid oren by takingr awcy 
their outs, de coTrrings the libs in front of the chest haying heen removed. Tlietip of 
the brenst-bi ne (stennivi) find ffirt of the caitilrges ol the sereiith and U llowing rib?, 
aie liei't. as the diaj'hrngm. which Sfpai ales thee tvo hollcn- paits of the trink. is 
fixed to th(n:. In the chest are seen the right aid leit kings / I : and between them 
tl e Lag ot the heart (periiaidivm), laid'opfn to siiow a ]'art of th;,t organ //. Passing 
np Jrom the henrt to the sid» s of the neck r.re the great blocd-vessels, th^^ aoiia. the 
vein i". tetween which are seen tlie wind-pipe and the hirynx. lelow the diaphragm, 
and therefore in the abdomen, is se^n, proiecting 1 tlow the riglit ril s, a pa t of tlie 
\\\QX <i. Frc m a nrtch low d. wn pojects the gall-bladd.T. Under the li .-er. and to the 
let, is the Ft( mach s at the left < nd of w hich is seen a piece of the spleen ; ! e'ow is the 
great bowel c. cr intestine, vljich goes nearly ronr.d th" snail liowels, cr intestines, 
th:;t lie twisted about in the middle. Lowest of all lies the bladder. M hen ycti lode 
at a diagram in a I ook. yon musr remember that you are standing cppcsite to the 
fictire which has its back to ;h^ jinge. Yonr lighi hand therefore vill be on the left 
in the figure ; w hat is on your liuht in the figure, will te on yonr lelt side really. 



it from that bottle into this bottle, because it is heavier thau 
air. I Avill put a lighted candle into it, and out it will go. 
Kext week I will let one of the boys or girls fill a bottle with 



OXYGEN AND CARBONIC ACID GAS, 6 

tlie air that comes out of their months, and yon will see that 
it contains some carbonic acid gas, for it will pnt out a candle 
jnst in the same waj that tin's gas will put out a light. 

There was an emigrant ship that sailed from Liverpool a 

few years ago. This vessel was going to . The men 

and women and children on board were going to leave old 
England to work in a strange land. They were emigrants 
One night a dreadful storm arose. The ship tossed about so 
much that the captain ordered tlie sailors to send all the men 
and women and childi-en down into a large room nnder the 
deck, because he was afraid they might be in the way. The 
sailors fastened the door so that they could not get out. The 
storm went down in a few hours, when the captain told the 
sailors tliey might op^n the door, or hatches as they were 
called. The sailors took a candle, because the room where these 
poor creatures were put was quite dark. When they entered, 
the candle went out. They lighted it again, and it went out 
a second time. This was done several times. At last it 
remained alight, and so they were able to descend. And what 
do you think they found ? Nearly all the men and women 
and little children lying on the ground. Some were dead, 
others unconscious. The only air they had had to breathe was 
the air that had come out of their mouths. No oxygen had 
been able to get in, so they had been poisoned by carbonic 
acid gas. 

I must toll you that all dumb animals which have a heait 
like ours also die if they cannot have good air containing a large 
quantity of oxygen. About a year or two ago a ship brought 
over a large number of sheep from Holland. Thry were fas- 
tened down in a room such as the poor emigrants were placed 
in, where no pure air could enter. When the hatches wen- 
opened, it was found that six hundred and forty-six wetc 
dead, and had to be thrown overboard. When animals have 
been cruelly treated, deprived of good air and good food, tli' y 
have fevers, consumption, and other complaints. Soa.e 
butchers kill them in this diseased state, and sell their flesls, 
which is unhealthy, and must do harm to the human bein'-s 
who eat it. 

Owing to our ignorance, we often have to sit in rooms 



(5 THI-: AlK WE HKKATBK. 

which are filled with this impure air, which poisons onr 
blood. Fortunately, some of this poison is able to get out 
through onr mouths in the breath and through our skins in 
sweat. You know on a summer's day, when yon have run or 
walked quickly, how the water runs down your face and you 
feel wet all over. Now, this sweat contains some of the same 
gas that comes out of your mouth. It is deadly poison. Even 
during the winter, when our hands feel quite cold, there is a 
great deal of this steam coming out of our skin. It is called 
invisible perspiration or sweat, because you cannot see it. 
"WTien it rnns down your face, it is called visible perspiration, 
because you can see it. I think yon will be astonished when 
I tell you that in winter as well as summer, if we are in health, 
more than two pints of perspiration ought to come out daily 
through our skin. There are thousands and thousands of little 
holes in our skin, smaller than the point of a needle. Each 
of these little holes leads into a little pipe of twisted skin, 
like this model of 'a sweat gland, made of glass, Avhich I hold 
in my hand. It is through these little pipes that the sweat 
is carried and runs out through the little holes in the skin. 
It is said that if all these little pipes of flesh, called sweat 
glands, which are in one person could be pulled out straight, 
and fastened together, thej would reach a distance of twenty- 
eight miles. Now, supposing that all these thousands and 
thousands of little glands were shut up, so that the two pints 
and mole of sweat could not get out, what do you think 
would haopen ? Why, you would die, as the following story 
will prove. 

A long while ago, in Rome, there was a grand feast or 
festival. People were drawn about in carriages ornamented 
with flowers. Somebody thought that one of these carriages 
would look most beautiful if a little boy, dressed like an 
angel, could be placed in the middle of it. They covered 
the whole of his body with gold, and fastened on to his 
shoulders a pair of gold wings. The little fellow was con- 
sidered to look very lovely. When his mother went to see 
how the little angel looked next morning asleep in bed, she 
found he was dead. The gold had completely closed all 
the pores, or little holes, in h-s skin, and therefore he had 



THE SK'IN. 

been poisoned by the sweat and carbonic acid that could not 
get out. 

All four-footed animals have pores and sweat glands, just 
as we liavc, except those which have a bony covering. If you 
were to varnish a guinea-pig — that is, cover it all over with 
paint — it would die for the same reason that the little Roman 
boy died. The sweat could not get out. 

Ifc is very important to know that both air and liquids can 
enter these holes in our skin as well as come out of them. 
Sailors who have been cast on a rock for three or four 
days have been prevented from dying of thirst by knowing 
that, if they kept wetting their clothes in the sea Avater, the 
water would <xet througfh these holes into their blood. It 
would have been impos.sible f )r them to drink the sea water 
because the salt in it would only have made them more 
thirsty. Fortunately the salt does not enter the skin, only 
the water without the salt. 

A gentleman was once so ill tha^ he could neither eat nor 
drink anything, and must iherefoi-e have died. The doctors 
managed to keep him alive for two or three days by putting 
him frequently into milk baths. The milk got through the 
poies of his skin and nonrislied his body. After this time he 
was able to eat and drink, and soon recovered. 

A great deal of oily matter likewise comes ov.*- of tlie skin, 
and it is owing to this oily matter that it is quite impossible 
to get the dirt off" your liands and face unless you use soap. 

Soap mixes wirh oil, but water will not. A working- 
woman who attended some of my lectures last winter told 
me that she had often been 'fair capped ' to find that she 
could not get off the dirt unle=s she used soap, " but now,' 
she said, 'I understand the reason why, and am very much 
obliged to you for telling mc.' I h(jpe you will never forget 
to wash yourselves well eveiy morning and night with plenty 
of soap and water. 

T/niujs jirocided for tJm Lni:tarf.. 

.Vfarshali's diagram of the he;irt and lungs, and Auzoux's model of the 

heart. 
A hirge tiheet upon whioli the death-roll and the laws of healtii wire printer] 



8 THE AIR WE BREATHE. 

A drawing of ji small piece of the palm of the hand, with three sweat p ^nds 

blown in white glass suspended from the pores. 
The words ' Oxygen Gas ' written in large red letters, ' Carbonic Acid las' 

written in bluish-black letters on two sheets of calico. 
Two glass bottles filled with oxygen pas. 
Two glass bottles filled with cjirbonic acid gas. 
Common matches and a candle. 

A high tumbler into which to pour the carbf)nic acid gas. 
Experiments with carbonic acid gas, to show how it extinguishes lighv and 

is so heavy a gas that it can be poured from one vessel into anothev and 

if poured over a lighted candle will extinguish it. 
All difficult words to be written large on a sheet, and the children / be 

told to copy them at every lecture. 

Questions for the First Lecture. 

1. What is the name of the good air that gives heat and life tc our 

bodies? 

2. "What is the name of the bad air that comes out of our mouths? 

3. AVhy do human beings and dumb animals die if they are shut up in a 

room where no fresh air can come in? 

4. If .-^n the sweat glands that are in our bodies were joined together 

how far would they reach, and how much perspiration cames out oi 

them daily ? 
o. "Whv is it necessary that wo should wash ourselves daily with soap as 

well us water? 
6. If you were in a boat on the sea without any fresh water to driiil;, 

how would you prevent yourself from dying of thirst? 



LECTURE n. 

IMPURE AIR AXD VEI^TILATIOy. 

I TOLD yon last \Yednesday that many thousands vf people 
now die in England every year from complaints they would 
not have if the laws of health were understood, and that 
thousands and thousands of people live to suffer all their 
lives because they have had fevers and other preventible 
diseases. Three or four hundred years ago a great many 
more people died of even more dreadful complaints than those 
we have now. I don't think yovi will be surprised at this 
when I tell von what dirtj^ houses people lived in, and what 



WHY WE HAVE FEVERS. V 

dirtj habits they had. London, which is now such a grand 
city, in those days had only narrow little streets like Fleece 
Lane in Leeds. Fleece Lane, you know, is so uarrow that the 
sign of a sheep which is hung up just reaches from one side 
of the street to the other. In London they used to have a 
great many simiiar signs, which were suspended across the 
.streets and prevented the fresh air from passing through 
these dark places. To make matters worse, the streets also 
contained pigsties and middens. They had no fireplaces ; the 
wood was burnt in the middle of the room, and the smoke 
escaped as it could. Carpets they had none, only straw, 
which was allowed to remain for more than ten years ; every 
now and then a fresh quantity was put over the old straw, 
and at last it was all thrown out into the narrow dirty streets 
I have already described. 

Fevers are caused by some poisonous matter which floats in 
the air, or which has got into the water we drink. It is only 
about a hundred years since Dr. Priestley discovered this 
wonderful ox j gen gas of which there is so much in the air we 
breathe. He was a very scientitic man, and lived for some 
years in Leeds, where he had previously discovered carbonic 
acid gas. Most people thoaght, before that time, there was 
nothing in the air, because they could not see anything. I am 
thankful to tell you that at this present time in England some 
of onr cleverest m:n are spending their whole time in trying 
to find out all about the air we breathe. Tliey have already 
discovered so much about it that they can weigh air in a pair 
of scales just as you would weigh sugar or tea. They have 
such powerful magnifying glasses that by looking through 
them they can see the things that are floating in it. They 
have long been able to look into water and discover what it 
contains. 

Now, in this little bottle of water there are a great many 
living things. Neither you nor I can see them now ; but if 
you look through this magnifying glass, which is called a 
microscope, you will see them, and will find among them 
creatures like that drawn on this sheet called the Amoeba. 

These very small thing's called 'germs' are the beginning 
of life in all plants and animals. There are animal germs and 



10 THE AIR WE DKEAIHE. 

vegetable germs. Toa all know German yeasfc, or brewer's 
yeast, which yonr mothers put into the flour to make the bread 
rise.^ I7ow, if you could look at that yeast through a micro- 
Eccpe, you v/ouli Hiid it is made Tip of millions and millions of 





Microscopic Plant— Yeast Plant. llic-oscopic Animal— A mrpba. 

little germs, or seeds, like this. A thousand of them will 
grow in a minute from only one seed. 

The very simple microscopic animal of which I have 
showed you a drawing, is called the Araceba ; it grows quite as 
quickly as the yeast plant. I must tell you that the yeast 
plant and the Amoeba are both harmles.^ to mnn. There is 
life in everything we ent or drink and in the air we breathe. 
I could show you that there is life in sugar, vinegar, 
cheese, &c. 

There are g^'rrns and little creatures of two kinds. Some 
are wholesome, like the germ in yeast and like the Amoeba ; 
others are unwholesome. The germs that are in good air and 
good water are wholesome germs, but those that are in bad air 
and bad water are poi.«onous, and when they get into our blood 
they give us fevers, cholera, &c.. The air that cumes from 
drains and middens is full of poisonous germs : they breed also 
in any dirt that is allowed to stand for a long time. I am 
glad to tell you that directly the oxygen which is in frt;sh 
air mixes with them, and the foul air which is their food is 
removed, they die. 

You see I have a grey substance in this bottle which is 
called permanganate of potash. It i.s very cheap, though it 
has such a long name. Xow, this stuff contains a great deal 

' Here I showed some yeast. 



WHY WK HAVE FEVKi:S. 11 

itf oxygeu. If you were to put any clothes irom a person 
who liad had a fever into a tub of water with some per- 
manganate of potash in it, all the poisonous germs that had 
come from the body of the sick person would be killed. Here 
1 have some water which has some permanganate of potash in 
it. You see that its colour is a beautiful deep purple, and I 
will put some of it into this pui-e water. The colour remains 
as bright as ever. Now I will put it into some water that 
contains a poisonous substance, and you will see that the 
colour immediately flies, and the water will look a dirty 
yellow. What a blessing it is we can get this wonderful 
oxygen gas without paying for it ! All we have to do is to 
open our windows and doors and let it rush in, and then it will 
drive away and kill all the fever germs. 

During those times I have just told you about, when 
people had such dirty habits and suffered from dreadful fevers 
in England, how do you think they treated a poor man, or 
wouian, or cliild, who had a fever ? They used to shut them 
up in a room, and close the windows, so thnt not a breath of 
fresh air could come in. The bed clothes were never changed ; 
all the poisonous matter that came out through the skin as 
sweat and oily matter was allowed to remain and collect, so it 
again entered the blood through the pores of the skin and 
I'oisoned it more and more. Blankets were put upon them 
to make tliem sweat. When the unfortunate person becauie 
mad with the fever and the treatnicnt, he was tied down to the 
bed. No wonder he died. Even the doctors, as a rule, in 
those times did not understand anything about the laws of 
health. They used to treat people in the small-pox just in 
the same way. 

In 1731, more than a hundred years ago, small-pox was 
very bad at a place called Blandford. There were 150 persons 
ill in one hospital. One rrigiit — it was summer-time — a fire 
broke out. All the sick people were carried out and put into 
the fields under bridges, under hedges, anywhere, and there 
they remained three days and three nights. Everybody ex- 
pected they would die directly, but instead of that they all 
,r^ot well, except one poor girl, who was nearly dying when the 
fire broke or.t. How delisrhtfui it must have been for the 



12 



IMPURE AIR AND VENTILATION. 



[)Oor creatures to have plenty of fresh air blowing npon them, 
instead of being shut up in close rooms. 

It is most important that no clothes should be kept in a 
room ^vhere anyone has a fever. If I were a poor woman with 
six children, and had only two rooms to live in, and found one 
of my children was sickening for a fever, I should immediately 
take all the clothes out of the drawers, bundle them up in a 
parcel, put them into the other room where I lived, remove 
evavj bit of curtain and carpet, open the window at the top 
about two inches, or break a top pane of glass if it would not 
open, see that the fireplace was open, or, if it was not very 
hot weather, light a small fire. Then I should warm the bed 
give the child something hot, and send fur the doctor. 

Germs float in the air, settle upon the furniture and the 
walls, and get caught in articles of furniture, carpets, bed- 
clothes and wearing apparel; they live best in woollen 
materials, which seem to keep them warm and feed them. 
Cobwebs are of a silky natui-e, and cases have been known 
where one cobweb has held sufficient germs to give a fever 
over again. It is right on this account that a nurse should 
wear a cotton dress. 

I will tell you a story that will prove how well wooller 
material will retain the germs of a disease. During those 
ignorant, dirty times in England long ago a dreadful com- 
plaint, called the Plague, used to rage. It visited England 
many times in the course of several hundred years. Directly 
it was known that anyone had this complaint, no one would 
go near him ; he was allowed to die alone — so great was 
the dread of it. In a village called Eyam in Derbyshire, in 
1666, a tailor lived, named George Vicars. One day he 
received a box of clothes from London, containing snch 
articles of clothing as coats, trousers, &c., all made of wool. 
He opened the box, and spread these things out to air before 
the fire. As he stood watching the clothes dry he felt sick. 
The heat of the fire no doubt brought the germs to life, and 
they floated about in the air, and he breathed or swallowed 
them. The next day he was worse, and on the third day a 
black spot appeared on his breast. Then he knew that he 
had the Plague. He died that night. No doubt people went 



WHY WE HAVE FEVEKS. lb 

to bis funeral and iuto the liouse to see llie corpse. Those 
clothes, too, which had come from London, as well as his own, 
would be worn by different members of his family. In a fiiw 
weeks after the funeral the Plague broke out in this beautiful 
little village. The people became so terrified that they wanted 
to run away to other towns, but the clergyman, a good and 
brave man, Mr. ^Eonpesson, persuaded them to remain, so that 
the Plague might not spread to other towns, Nearly all the 
people died. Still Mr. Monpesson remained and did all he 
could. At last he lost his wife. The churchyard became so 
full of graves that no one dared to enter it or tlic church, so 
it was closed. On a Sunday the people used to pray out in 
the fields. If you ever go to Eyam, you will see a little 
cave in a rock which is all covered over with ivy. It was 
there that Mr. Monpesson used to perform tlic service to the 
few whose lives had been spared. Though nearly two hun- 
dred years have passed since those dreadful days, there are 
people at Eyam who will tell the story I have told, and a great 
many other most interesting facts about the Plague. 

The germs or poison of scarlet fever can live in woollen 
materials for several years. A little girl died of this fever ; 
ncr favourite doll was put by in a woollen dress. Three or 
four years afterwards a little cousin came to pay a visit at the 
house, and the mother^ to amuse the little girl, brought out 
the doll. Not more than a week elapsed before the poor 
child v,'as seized with scarlet fever. It is very wrong of 
mothers and fathers to send their children to school when 
they are recovering from scarlet fever. During that time the 
skin peels off, and that skin is full of germs, and one boy or 
girl in this state can spread the fever through the whole 
school. The hair of the head, being of a woolly nature, may 
hold the germs for a considerable time, unless it be well 
washed with hot noap and water and permanganate of potash. 

I am now going to tell you how we can ventilate a room — 
that is, make the air fresh and free from all infection. You 
will perhaps think that you could make the air fresh by open- 
ing a window, I will show you that you catmot make the 
air fresh unless you have an open fireplace as well as an open 
window. 



14 I.Ml-UKE AIR A.VI" V'KXTILATlUX. 

You sec this little kettle with tlic steam coming- out of the 
spout. Why doos the steam rise up instead of falling down ? 
Because hot air is much lighter than cold air. Our breath 
also rises like steam, because it is warmer than the air about 
us. If you remember, I told you that if I had anyone ill 
in a fever I should open the window at the top or break a hole 
in a top pane of glass, unless it was very cold, but in any case 
if there was no chimney in the room and the room was small ; 
that was because I wanted to allow the carbonic acid gas, which 
is light when it is warm, though very heavy when it is cold, to 
fly through the opening in the top of the window, or, at all 
events, to mix it with fresh air. Cold air is always running 
after hot air, for as the hot air rises cold air rushes in to take 
its place. If you heat the air in a room by means of a fire, the 
warm air will go up the chimney, and cold air will come in to 
CU up the gap ; so hot and cold air are always chasing each 
other. Do you not know, when you are sitting by a fire on 
a cold winter's night, how the wind whistles through the key- 
holes, pushing its way under the door ? It is only because the 
cold air is rushing after the hot air escaping from the room. 

I dare say you have all been at home on a washing-day, 
and seen the room full of steam. You will find that if you 
open the bottom part of the window the steam Avill not go 
out of the room, but if you open the top about two inches 
it will fly out quickly enough. Tell your mothers about 
this. Directly the steam gets cold at the top of the room, 
it falls down like rain, and covers the furniture and clothes, 
so that they become wet. A mother told me once that 
her little boy often suffered from bronchitis after a washing- 
day, but on following my directions about opening the top 
of the window the child did not suffer from his old attacks. 
It is dangerous to sit in a room with the bottom part of 
a window open, as it often causes a draught to blow directly 
upon yon ; but yon do not feel the air when it comes from 
a window that is open a little at the top. In our house 
we all sleep with our windows open at least an inch at the 
top both summer and winter, and we never take cold. The 
room feels so fresh when we awake in the morning because 
the carbonic acid gae has been able to make its escape. 



'AllY WE HAVt FLVblUS. 15 

I will now tell you a story wLich will prove that there 
ought to be a fireplace in every bed-room as well as sitting- 
room. In 1782 seventy-three pauper children, between 
seven and fourteen years of age, were sent to a new house 
in Golden Square, London. Twenty of these children (girls) 
slept in a room together. In fourteen days ihey began to 
have dreadful pain, were sick, and became delirious. The 
doctor could not imaaine what caused the illness, as there 
were eighteen girls who slept in the next room, and they 
were all well. The doctor ordered that the sick girls should 
be moved into a much larger room, where they recovered. 
Thej found out that the chimney of the room in which 
the girls had first slept w^as quite closed up with bricks. 
The window and door being also closed, the carbonic acid 
gas could not escape, and the air had become so bad that 
it had poisoned their blood. Now, do remember, all of yon, 
to take care and see that the chimneys of your rooms are not 
stuffed up with bags. 

When we take lodgings at the sea-side, directly we go 
into our bed-rooms we look up the chimneys. I am sorry 
to say we generally find they are quite filled up. They say 
it is to prevent the dirt from coming in. Then we have to 
order that the bags be taken away. If you have no fireplace 
in your room, be sure yon have the window a little open at 
the top. You now understand why it is good to have a tire 
in a bed-room where there is sickness, because it causes the 
cold fresb air to rush in through the room after the warmer 
air that is escaping up the chimney. 

Directions Jiow to attend to a sick person s room, so thai the 
germs of in/ection muy not escape into tlie next room, or he 
spread hij sendinj tht dirty lied linen and chthes (,v.t to he 
uashed. 

Remove the carpets :i7id all the furniture that is not quite 
necessary. 

Keep an earthenware pan in the room filled with clean 
water that contains a proper quantity of permanganate of 
potash. Directly any bed linen or clothes requiie to bo 
washed, put them into this water for five or ten minutes, or 



16 IMPURE AIR AXI> VENTILATION. 

into boiling water, if there is no permanganate? of potash, as 
no poison germs can live long in boiling water. If water is 
only warmed it makes them grow more quickly. Wa.sher- 
women and their families often lose their lives by fe%'ers taker, 
from clothes that have come straight from the body or bed of 
an invalid. I cannot understaii'l how people can do so 
wicked and so cruel a thing :is +<> send poor washer womer 
clotlies in this dangerons state. 

Instead of sweeping the floor, use a damp mop. A 
great deal of woolly matter collects under all beds : so take it 
all away with the mop. Dust the furniture with a clean 
damp duster that has been wrnng out of the pan of water. 
If you dust any room with a diy duster, and do not very often 
shake it out of the window, you had much better not dust at 
all, for you only make the dust fly about in the air you breathe; 
after a little time it will all settle on the furniture. A packet 
of permanganate of potasli that costs one shilling will make 
twenty gallons of water sufficiently strong to destroy all germs 
of disease. One teaspoonful will make two gallons. Great 
care must be taken to mix the powder until it is quite dissolved. 
It is sold by all druggists. 

X.B. After a fever or any infectious complaint, all bedding 
can be purified free of expense, if a post-card be sent to the 
Inspector of Nuisances. He will be only too glad to send for 
the things immediately, and place them in the hot-air appa- 
ratus, which will kill all germs of di sense, without injuring 
the bedding. They will be safely returned directly they have 
been purified. 

Things provided for the Lecture. 

A picture of a micro.scopic animal and a vegetable germ. 

Some German yea?t, to show what the yeast plant is lika. 

A bottle of water containing life which is invisi Lie to us. 

A microstope. 

A bottle containing a solution of permanganate of potash. 

A bottle containing some decomposed organic matter. 

One bottle of oxygen gas. 

Questions for the Second Lecture. 
1 AAHigt are germs, and how can you kill them? 

2. AVhy is it dangerous to send a child to school when it has had 
scarlet fever and the skin is peeling off? 



THE SKELETON. 17 

3. If a room were full of steam, how would you send it out? 

4. How would you bring fresh air into a room and send the bad air 

out; that means, ventilate a room? 

5. Why did people have dreadful fcvers and the plague 200 years ago ? 

ExjJeriments. 

Pour some of the solution of permanganate of potash into pure water; 
the purple colour will remain bright. 

Pour some into the bottle containing organic matter; the colour will be 
changed to a dirty yellow. 

Fill a bottle with water and place it with its mouth dowuwards on a stand 
in a tub of water. Then put a glass tube to the mouth, and ask a child 
to come and breathe through it. The water will be soon displaced by 
the air charged w^th c;irbonic acid gas that comes from his lungs. Put 
a cork into the bottle while it is quite under water. Now take the 
bottle out, remove the cork, and put in a lighted taper ; it will be 
immediately extinguished. 

Put a taper with a spark of light into the bottle of oxygen gas, and it will 
instantly burst into bright flame. 



LECTURE III. 

THE SKELETON. 



Before I begin my lecture to-day I must tell you about a 
society tliere is in Leeds for the prevention of cruelty to 
animals. Several ladies and gentlemen who cannot bear to 
see dumb animals unkindly treated, give their money and 
engage men whose duty it is to go about and see that horses, 
donkeys, and all dumb animals are well used. This society 
has heard that I am going to give you some information 
about dumb animals, and they have offered to present three 
prizes for the best answers to twelve questions I intend to 
give you when I have finished this course oP lectures. 

After my last lecture about impure air you will see that it 
is impossible for human beings to be healthy and strong 
unless they have plenty of fresh air. I will try to-day to 
make you understand why good air is equaliy necessary for 
dumb animals. Horses, cows, sheep, dogs, birds, and all 
animals except man were made to live night and dayin the 





18 ' THE SKELETON. 

open air, and wander abont in search of food. Birds, for 
instance, flj many hundreds of miles in a day in search of 
food. We take them and shut them up in cages so small 
that there is scarcely room in them to move, much less flj. 
These cages are often hung up in close rooms or by a window 
where the sun shines so strongly that the poor birds pant for 
air and long to fly into their shady woods, where it is cool 
and dark. I think it is yery cruel and selfish to keep any 
animal shut up just for the pleasure of looking at it, or in 
order to hear it sing. Even men who are considered to be 
educated do not understand that all animals will die in air 
that has no oxygen. This I will prove by the following 
Gtory. 

In the Zooloo'ical Gardens in London are to be seen 
animals which haye been brought from foreign countries ; 
monkeys among the rest. They are yery delicate, as they 
come from hot countries, where they live out in the woods. 
A great number used to die every winter, because our climate 
was too cold for. them. Some gentlemen determined that 
they would build new monkey-houses, and make them so 
warm that it would be impossible for them to feel the cold. 
To their great surprise, more monkeys died than ever in these 
snug abodes. At last it was discovered that, as every little 
hole was filled up, no fresh air could enter. The poor creatures 
had been poisoned by their own breath — overcharged with 
carbonic acid gas. 

I told you in my first lectnre that an immense number of 
people die every year owing to our ignorance of the laws of 
health. For the same reason you will find that an immense 
number of animals most yaluable to man die every year — the 
cow, for instance. Let us see how many different kinds of 
food we get from the cow alone : milk, cream, butter, cheese, 
and beef ; yeal comes from the calf, or young cow. Butcher's 
meat and all these kinds of meat are very dear. The farmers, 
who ought to take care of their cows, don't understand that 
they require as much care as hnman beings. Cows die by 
thousands of consumption every year in the British Islands. 
Consumption is very often caused by breathing bad air. A 
veterinary surgeon in Leeds (that means a doctor who tries to 



THE SKELETON. 19 

cure cattle) told me the other day that whenever he was sent 
for to see cows that were ill of fever or consumption, he found 
them living in horribly dirty stables, and when he told the 
farmers that they must clean the place by taking out the dung 
and whitewashing the walls, &c., they only laughed at him. 
The greatest care, of course, ought to be taken of all animals 
who furnish us with food. If they are not healthy when the 
butchers kill them, their iiesh will of course be bad for us 
to eat. 

Pigs have a dreadful complaint called measles. People 
who have eaten their flesh, which, you know, is pork, ham, 
and bacon, have taken this disease, and died after suffering 
great agony. Pigs get this disease owing to their not having 
been kept clean and properly fed. Sheep also die by thousands 
of measles aiid all kinds of diseases. All this ignorance has 
helped, in a great measure, to make butcher*s meat very dear, 
because the cattle have become so scarce. We s.re now obliged 
to fetch them from foreign countries. 

You have all heard of the cattle-plague ; it was brought 
from Russia. There they treat their animals just as we do. 
For a long part of their journey these poor creatures are 
carried by railway in dirty carriages, so closely packed that 
they can scarcely move, and then they are driven and 
huddled together on board vessels, and suffer terribly at sea. 
Very little food or water is given them on the journey and 
voyage. Even healthy animals so treated would become 
unhealthy during their long journey. Don't you think it is 
quite right that we should suffer for our ignorance and 
cruelty, as we do, by having to eat diseased meat, and also by 
losing our own cattle, to say nothing of what they have 
to undergo ? This is all I shall say about dumb animals 
to-day. 

I shall now describe the human skeleton. You see I hav3 
a picture of the skeleton of a man here. 

Our bones are the foundation, or frame, on which our flesh 
is supported. You see by this outer line where the fiesli 
ought to come.' There are more than two hundred bones in 

' Marshall's diagram, No. 1, page 20. 
c 2 



20 



THE SKELETON. 



the skeleton. Our frames consist of three parts : the head, 
the body or trunk, and the arms and legs. 



Fig. 4 




A front view cf the human skeleton. The line that is dra^i round the skeleton slxoWB 
where the flesh would come in a life figt-re. 



THE SKULL. 



I will first tell you all I can about the Head. When I say 
the head, I mean the head and the face also. The bones of 
the head and face are twenty-two in number, and thej form 
.the skull. This is a very strong box of bone ; I hold one in 
my hand. It is the skull of a young man. You see that the 
top of it is round, not flat ; it is in the shape of an arch. Xow, 
an arch is the strongest shape in which the skull could bo 
made, just as an arched bridge is the strongest shaped bridge 
which can be made to bear the heavy loads that have to pass 




The bones of the head, ■which consists of the cranium, and face : 1, frontal bone ; 2, left 
parietal bone ; 3. left tcmpf ral bone ; 4, right upper jawbone ; 5, lower jawbone ; 6, right 
cheeklx)ne. This figure also shows the two eye-sockets, or orbits, the opening leading 
into the right and le.t nasil or no>e-ca\itie3. and the arrangem-nt of the t«etti in tbo 
jawbones. The htad has eight, and the face lourteen bones. (From Mature.) 



over it. You know that men can carry very heavy things on 
the top of their heads. Why do you think our skulls are so 
strongly made ? Let us see what they contain — our eyes 
with which we see, our cars witli which we hear, our mouths 
where we eat our food, the nose which enables us to smell, 
and then our brains. Without brains we should have no 
reason or power of thinking. Our skuUs therefore hold 
our senses of seeing, hearing, taste, and smell. It is a very 
precious bos, I think. There are, as I have just said, twenty- 



22 



THE SKELETON 



two bones from the face to the back of the head. If you were 
to see the skull of a baby, you would be able to find out where 
the bones join, and you could see how curiously many of them 
fit into each other, like two saws that joiners use to saw wood 
with. These bones are either gristly or membranous for some 
time ; at about four years of age they become firm ; at seven 
they are quite hard and well joined together. A new-born 
infant has a very soft and imperfectly matured brain ; it can 
neither see distinctly, walk, nor talk ; all it can do for a great 
many weeks is to eat, sleep, and cry. Very few animals are 
born so helpless as a baby. By the time it is a year old its 
brain has grown to twice the size it was at its birth. What a 



Fig. G. 




Ejoman skull in a natural state. 

"wonderful little creature it is then ! It begins to walk, talk, 
and do a great many wonderful things, if it has a good and 
wise mother. A bit of brain grows every day, and then just 
enough bone grows to cover the new brain ; this is the reason 
why the bones of the skull are neither hard nor joined together 
when it is born. You will always find there is a wise reason 
for all the changes that take place as we grow older. 

I dare say you have heard of the Xorth American Indians. 
They are a wild race of men ; they do not live in houses nor 
wear clothes, as we do ; they think a baby's head ought to be 
made flat, and not left as God made it. So they put the little 
child into a kind of long tub and place a hard piece of stuff 
over its forehead, and then they squeeze it down tight with 
strings for some time, until it grows to be like this picture. 
The eyes nearly jump out of its head and are horrible to look 



THE SKULL. 28 

at. By beginniDg directly the children are born, the shape 
can easily be changed, as the bones are soft. 

1 am. sorry to tell yon that in England, where we think we 
arc so clever and civilised, little babies are not mnch better 
treated than those of the ^orth American Indians. A great 
many English nurses have the same silly notions. They too 
think they can make the shape better ; so they often press the 



Fig. 7. 




The skull of a North American Indian flattened in infancy by means of pads pl?jced oa 
the top and held dovm by strings fastened to the sides of a tiab in which the child was 
placed. 



bones of the baby's head together. They must fancy it is a 
mistake that the bones are separated. Doctors do not knoTy 
half the ignorant things which are done when their backs aro 
tnrned. 

I hope, after my description of the skull and all it contains, 
yon will be careful and never strike each other on the head. 
A hard blow on the top of the head may take away both your 
mernory and your sight. People have often been blinded by 
such a blow, A severe box on the ears may make you deaf 
all the rest of your life. My youngest brother, many 3'ears 
ago, tried to defend a poor woman who was being struck by 
her husband. The blow that was aimed at the wife fell on my 
brother's ear, and to this day his hearing has not been perfectly 
restored. 

Remember it is equally cruel to strike dumb animals on 
the head ; I constantly see horses, donkeys, and all cattle 
struck on the head by their masters, who want to make the 
poor tired animals go faster. This is not the way to increase 
their s^ieed, for the- blow only stuns and stupefies them, so 



24 SKELETON — JOINTS AKD MUSCLES. 

that they neither know where they are going nor what they 
are doing. 

Tkwgs 2>^'ovided for the Lecture. 
A human skull. 

Marshall's diagram of the skeleton. 

A picture of the deformed head of an American Indian, and h picture 
of a naturally-formed head. 

Questiuiis for the Third Lecture. 

1. Why do dumb animals require as much fresh air as human beings? 

2. Tell me some of the reasons why butcher's meat is very dear. 

3. What does the skull contain ? 

4. Why is it very dangerous to press the bones of a new-born infant'w 

head together? 
6. Wliy is it very cruel and dangerous to strike a human being or a 
dumb animal over the head? 



LECTURE IV. 

SKELETOX— JOINTS ASB MUSVLES. 

To-day I am going to finish my account of the skeleton. I 
have still something more to say about the sknll. Under this 
bony covering there is a tongh membrane ; ^ beneath this is a. 
very thin, smooth, moist membrane, and underneath this is the 
brain, which is itself closely covered by a third membrane, 
chiefly composed of blood-vessels. The skull is covered by 
the skin, on which the hair grows ; under this are muscles 
and tendons, and under these is a membrane which is closely 
connected with the bones. I am very anxious you should 
understand and remember that the bones of the head and 
their coverings afford a very good protection to the brain, 
because some mothers and nurses who have unfortunately 
never been taught physiology say that it is dangerous to 
wash a baby's head, because, if you do, the water will cer- 
tainly run through into the brain, and give the child the 
disease called wate? on the brain. You will now understand 

' A membrane is a kiad of skin. 



THE HEAD. 2o 

that it Tvonld be quite impossible that such a thing shonld 
happen. 

In Poland there is a dreadful disease called 'plica 
Polonica,' which is generally caused by allowing the head to 
be very dirty. The hair becomes matted together and sticky 
and grows to a great length. 

A baby's head requires to be wnshed with soap and 
water more than any other part of its body. I will tell you 
the reason why. You know there is a great deal of oily 





<^- 





« is the first bone or vertebra in the spin'^. It is a smooth T\r,^, and is Ta=t<'no<:l to the 
bottom of the sknll ju?t round the hole through which the spinal cord comes out ; / is 
a side view of this vertebra. 6 is the ?econ 1 vertebra ; it has a curious piece of bone 
that stands up in the front : j'ou cm seo it in c mark*-d a. c is the PF.me bone seen 
from the side. We can turn our head both to the ripht side and to the left, because the 
top rinjr can move about on the second rin;?, and the pieco of bone that stnnds up ke^ps 
the head in its place. It Ls very danperous to lift a child up from th^ pround by its 
head, for the top rin? mieht be pulled off the tooth, and then a child or man would 
instantly die. d and e are th':- two first bones I have described placed one upon the 
other, y is the piece of bone comin.-T through the top ring. 

matter in our hair, and a great deal of this oily matter comes 
out, to nourish it, from the pores in the skin of the head. 
As we wear no covering to our heads unless we are out of 
doors, the dirt and dust in the air mix with the oily matter 
and form a kind of black paste. A baby's head requires to 
be kept cool ; for that rcas<m it has generally no hair. The 



26 SKELETOX — JOIISTS AND MUSCLES. 

sweat carries off the heat through the nores ; but if all tho 
pores are shnt up, the sweat cannot get out, and the child's 
head grows hot and feverish. 

In England, Wales, and on the Continent, particularly in 
Italy and France, I have very often seen children with per- 
fectly black heads. By trying to remove this dirt when they 
get older, the mothers frequently give their children very sore 
heads. Now, if plenty of soap and water had b^eu used from 
the first day, all this suffering would have been saved. 

The head rests on the spine, or backbone, which you see 
in this picture.' There are twenty-six bones in the spine. 
I have brought the seven bones that form the neck to show 
you. This is the top one, on which the head rests, and here 
is the second one, on which the head turns. This second 
bone has a kind of tooth or little spike. People should never 
lift a child up by its head, as by so doing they might perhaps 
lift the head partly off this little spike, and then the child 
would die instantly. 

There is, you see, a hole through esfccii gi the bones that 
form the spine. It is through these holes that the spinal 
cord goes, and it passes all down the backbone, or spine. 
Between each of these curious strong bones there is a little 
cushion of a substance something like gristle. You have 
seen the buffers that are placed between railway carriages. 
The railway buffers prevent the carriages from knocking 
hardly against each other. The little buffei-s between the 
bones of the spine also prevent them from knocking against 
each other and from shaking the spii^al cord, wiiic^ pazsci 
down from the brain. It is such a very delicate substance 
that even a violent shake has been known to injure it for 
life. You see there are twelve ribs on each side of the spine ; 
they begin below the neck, which is made of these seven 
bones, and, together with the narrow flat bone in front of the 
chest, called the sternum, cover the heart and the two lungs. 
AU this part of the body is called the trunk. ^ 

I will describe what a joint is. A joint is the place where 
two bones join together. On the left side of the figure of the 
skeleton you see that the bones are all fastened together by 
' Marshall's diagram, p. 27, fig. 9- ' Marshall's diagram, No. 1, p. 20. 



WHAT A JOINT IS. 



27 



strong bands, called ligaments. Usnallj the end of a bone 
which forms a joint with another bone is covered over with a 

Ftg. 9. 




Half the skull and baok- 
bone, to show how 
safely guarded both the 
brain and spinal cord 
are by their bony cover- 
ings, a, big brain ; b, 




little brain ; e, the spinal 
?ord. This picture shows 
the different bones of the 
spine, and how it is 
curved to make it very 
strong. 



28 SKELETON — JIXTS AND MUSCLES. 

piece of gristle, called cartilage, and in those joints wliicli we 
can move there is a bag between the two bones which con- 
tains a fluid like the white of an egg, improperly called joint- 
oil. This joint-oil makes the movement between the bones 
more easy. Each of onr fingers has three joints. The thumb 
has only two joints, as you can see, if you look at your hands. 
We have twentj-.seven bones in each of our hands. When a 

Fig. 10. 




Back view of the bones of the left hand, showing the (8) small bones next to the wrist 
joint. (9) the bones of the palm of the hand, and (10) the tones of the fingeis, and the 
distinct portion and length of the thumb. 

person breaks a finger, and it cannot be used for some time, it 
becomes stiff; the so-called joint-oil too has almost all gone 
away. And this is the case with all our joints ; if they are not 
used the joint-oil gradually gets less and less, and they become 
stifi". Now, between certain joints of each of the bones of the 
spine there is joint-oil, a little of which comes out every time 
we move our backs. The top bone of the arm fits into the 
shoulder-blade, and forms what is called the cup-and-bail 
joint. There is a good deal of joint-oil in the bag that covers 
the top of these bones. It is easy to pull the ball out of the 
cup, and this accident often happens to little children. It is 



THE HIP-JOINT. 29 

called dislocation. The ball is kept in the cup bj bands of 
tough membrane called ligament, that pass from the shoulder- 
blade to the arm. These bands are soft and flexible, and so 
they enable ns to move onr arms freelj, as in skipping oi 
turning the handle of a grinding-machine. 

Nurses ought to be very careful not to drag children along 
by one arm, or hold them up by their arms, as they fre- 
quently do. A doctor told me that he has often stopped 
his carriage to beg a nurse not to drag the child by its arm. 
His trouble was all in vain, for the nurse, he said, evidently 
thought that he knew nothini? about it ; and did not attend to 
him. He saw his own nurse swinging his little girl by her 
arm, and told her that by doing so she might put it out of 
joint. This did at last happen. When his family were away 
at the sea-side he received a telegram from his wife to beg he 
would come to her directly. When he arrived he found that 
the accident which he had often foreseen had at last happened. 
The nurse had been swinging the child by its arms, and had 
pulled the ball out of the cup. 

Let us next take the hip-joint. This joint is just like the 
cup-and-ball joint in the arm ; the only difference is that there 
is a strong ligament which passes across from the ball of the 
thigh-bone and is fastened to the cup of the hip-bone. This 
joint is plainly shown, in this diagram of the skeleton.^ The 
thifjh-bone is the longfest, laro^est, and heaviest bone in the 
body. The bands or ligaments which bind the bones of the 
hip together are immensely strong, because all the weight of 
our trunk rests upon this joint. It is very difficult to cure 
any disease of the hip, as it is not allowed any time to heal, 
because we cannot move our bodies without moving the hip. 
It is very sad to see so many little children in our Leeds 
Infirmary who are suflfering from hip complaints, and they do 
suffer most dreadfally. Doctors say children often get hip 
complaints from sitting on cold stones or damp grass, so that 
you must take care not to let your little brothers and sisters 
sit on anything damp or cold. 

I shall never forget going to the Leeds Infirmary once, 
when I saw a boy of about twelve who was suffering from a 

' Marshall's diagram, No. 1, page 20. 



30 SKELETON — JOINTS AND MUSCLES. 

hip complaint. I weni up to hira and asKed him what had 
caused it. He told me that one day, when he was playing at 
marbles in the streets, a big boy came np and wanted to 
tease the little boys and take their marbles from them. At 
last they qnarrelled, and a number of lads took this boy by 
his arms and legs, and dragged him over the road. When he 
tried to get up and walk home he found he could not move. 
After suSering a long time at home he was taken by his father 
to the Infirmary, and then the doctors found his hip-joint was 
injared, his spine hurt, and his ankle-joints had been twisted. 
No boy, I am sure, would have been so cruel as to do this if 
he had only understood the dreadful sufferings his thoughtless 
conduct might cause. 

In diseases of the hip-joint people cannot bear the 
slightest shake. I had a dear little friend who died from a 

Fig. U. 




Side view of thp bon^s of the left foot, showinor the projection of th" heel at 2. the arch 
•wliich the bones make at 3 ; th- strength of the bones of the great toe (9. 10. 11, 12) ; 
a is where the 1 g-Vone joins the ankle. In the ankle, as in the wrist of the hand, 
there are several bones. 

complaint in the hip. If anyone walked .across the room in 
the very gentlest manner, she was thrown into an agony of 
pain. Mr. Wheelhouse told me it was no wonder she suffered 
so dreadfully, because the top of the ball, which is covered in 
health with a very soft covering, had come away and left the 
hard bone to scratch against the cup, in which there was an 
abscess. Nurses who don't understand about the hip-joint 
often scold children for crying when they are moved. 

The knee-joint ' has a little bone that is placed over the 
front of it ; it is called the knee-cap : it guards the knee- 
joint. Little children constantly fall, and they would often 
be hurt if the little cushion which there is on the front of 
* ^Marshall's diagram, No. 1, page 20. 



THE FOOT. 31 

this knee-cap did not save them when they fall. In women 
who kneel to scrub floors or stone steps this little cushion 
often becomes very much inflamed. They ought to get a 
towel or some straw, and make it round, so that a hole is left 
in the middle for the knee-cap to drop into. 

I must now tell you how wonderfully our feet are made. 
There are a great number of bones and joints in the foot. The 
feet have to bear all the weight of our bodies. Very often you 
will see dancers stand on one foot, or even on the tips of their 
longest toes. The foot is made in the form of an arch, because, 

Fig 12. 




Natural foot. 

as I told you, an arch is the strongest form we can make. I 
hope you will never wear tight boots nor high heels, but those 
which have good broad soles ; and take care the soles are thick. 
I dare say you have often heard your mothers say to one of your 
little brothers, 'Now stand like a man.' It is a fact that no 
animal can stand erect upon its feet like a man. The ourang- 
outang can stand upright nearly, but it always stands on the 
outer edge of its feet, supporting itself in walking andrunning 
with its long arms touching the ground. Shoes ought to be 
made very wide at the bottom, so that we can stand firmly in 
them, and have plenty of room to move our joints about. Tlie 
Chinese think it very vulgar for ladies to be useful and have 
natural-sized feet, so they bind a baby's feet, if it is a girl, 
with strong bands, to prevent it from growing. When they 
grow up, these poor ladies are scarcely able to move about. 
I must now describe the muscles. You see these bundles 



32' SKELETON — JOINTS AND MUSCLES. 

of flesh, in this drawing ; ^ they seem to be plaited over th.e 
bone of the arm. Each of these bundles of muscles contains 
perhaps three hundred little fibres, or threads, of flesh. 'When 
I use my arm I sometimes wish to stretch it out and make it 
long, and then I want to pull it up and make it short. The 
reason why I can do this is because all these little threads of 
flesh are both elastic and able to contract ; that is, thej can 
stretch out and go together again, like this piece of india/- 
rubber. We all ought to know how to make these muscles 
strong and firm, because, unless thej are strong, we can do 
no work. There is onlv one way of making them strong, and 

Fi-. 13. 




Cliinese foot, that has been pressed into this strange shape by bandage 
■«u:n the child was an infant. 

that is by using them. You have all seen a blacksmith work- 
ing in his shop. A blacksmith has to use his arms a great 
deal when he hammers out the hot iron. !N^o man has stronger 
muscles in his arm than the blacksmith. Just ask one to let 
YOU feel his arm, and you will find that he can make it nearly 
as hard as the iron he hammers all day. In countries where 
there are no telegraph, wires men carry the messages and run 
great distances, and the consequence is the muscles of their 
legs grow very strong. There is a very strong muscle that 
passes down the back part of the spine, and others which 
go down the front part of it. They keep all the twenty- six 
bones of the spine together, and they enable us to bend up 
and down, because they can stretch and go together again. 
If we don't use these muscles, our spines grow weak. When 
these muscles and ligaments are weak, or very often in conse- 

' MarshalTs dingrara, Xo. 4, page 40. letter M. 



THE MUSCLES. do 

quence of a fall, tbe bones get ont of tlieir places, the spine 
becomes weak, and the back curved and twisted. In other 
cases, the bones become diseased, and then the back becomes 
bent or ' humped.' 

I dare say yoa have heard of a conntry called Greece. 
About two thousand years ago the Greek people were the 

Fig. \i. 




This picture shows htnr the heart, lungrs. liver, and stomach, are placed in the body. On 
the next pape is a picture which shows how these organs are pushed out oi their places 
Ly tight lacing. 



handsomest and cleverest people in the world ; they made 
all the boys and girls learn a great deal, but they also made 
them run, walk, and play a great deal, because they said it 
was quite impossible to have a healthy mind if the body was 
weak. Perhaps you have been to what is called a gym- 
nasium, a place where people jump and do all kinds of 
wonderful things. "VVe have no doubt learnt how to perform 
many wonderful feats by reading Greek books that told us 
how to do them. 

Boys are much better off than girls, for they play at some 



34 



SKLLETON — JOINTS A>TD MUSCLES. 



good game every day, either cricket or foot-ball. Girls have 
jnst ttie same muscles as boys, which cau oi^ly bo made strong 
by constant use, and yet they are scarcely ever allowed to 
exercise them. The consequence is that women more fre- 
quently have spinal complaints than men, which make them 
helpless and causes them great suffering. 2^ot only are girls 

Fig. 15. 




The orgtins pushed out of their places by tight lacing-. 



made to sit for hours every day in one position, at school ct? 
when sewing, without any rest to their spines, but they are 
made to wear stavs, which prevent their muscles from moving 
about. Grecian women had beautiful figures, but they were 
not allowed to wear such barbarous things as stays. Their 
dresses were loose, and consequently very elegant. Here is a 
picture of a person who has worn tight stays (Madame Bodi- 
chon's drawing enlarged). You see the heart and lungs, and 



THE JiCSCLES. 85 

other organs, are completely pnshed out of their places. A 
great many tailors and dressmakers die of consumption 
becanse they have to sit still so many hours, stooping over 
their work in bad air. I trust tailors will soon become too 
intelligent to think it is necessary they should sit on a board 
with their legs crossed and their backs bent. While going over 
a public institution the other day I was extremely sorry to see 
a master teaching little boys of ten and upwards to sit in this 
way. It is bad enongh for men to sit with their lungs and 
other organs crushed np, but it must be much worse for grow- 
ing lads to have to remain in such a position for several hours. 
Not long ago an English doctor travelled through a part 
of Africa where he found that the women did all the hard 
work, and the men stayed at home and took care of the houses 
and minded the children. The women's muscles had become 
by this means much stronger than those of the men. This 
oxperience made him believe that women after all are not born 
weaker than men. It is only becanse they are brought up less 
sensibly than men that their frames are so much more delicate. 

Tilings provided fur the Lecture. 

A. piece of whalebone and elastic to show the difference between the 
stretching of the muscles and bending of the ligaments. 

Marshall's diagram of the skeleton. 

Marshall's diagram of the muscles. 

Madame Bodichon's enlarged picture of the organs distorted by tight 
stays, and her picture of them in their natural state. 

A picture of a Chinese foot altered by having been bound up. 

A picture of a well-formed foot from nature. 

Vertebrae of the neck, with a thick skein of white wool run through the 
holes to represent the spinal cord. 

Questions for the Fourth Lecture. 

1. How many coverings are there to the brain ? 

2. Why is it more necessary to wash an infant's htad with soap than 

any other part of its body ? 

3. Why is it dangerous to swing a child round by its arnis? 

4. What must we do to make our muscles strong ? Why do more girla 

BXiffer from spinal complaints than boys? 



y 



36 THE CLKCULATION, 



LECTURE V. 

THE CIRCVLATIOX 

Before I begin to describe the circulation of the blood I should 
like you to understand what an organ is. No donbt yon hare 
often heard people speak of the organs of the body. An organ 
is an instrnment which does something. 

The organ of the body I am going to tell yon abont to-day 
is the heart.* I have brought you the same beantiful model of 
one which I had at my first lecture. This wonderful little organ, 
or instrument, has to do a very great deal of hard work, as 
you will think, I am sure, when I tell you that it sends blood 
to every part of our body in about half a minute. TVe have 
at least forty organs, or places, in the body whei'e something 
is done, and the active part of each of these forty organs 
ought to be entirely re-made in about forty days. 

The forty difierent organs are made of difierent substances. 
Our blood also contains at least forty ditferent substances, I 
have in these bottles some of those substances. I have chosen 
a few whose names you will all know — salt, soda, fat and 
other substances rich in sugar, iron, lime, phosphorus, albumen, 
and carbon. Perhaps you have never heard before the name 
of the last substance. I shall have a great deal to tell you 
about carbon in all my lectures. Charcoal is almost pure car- 
bon. I have written on this sheet that coal, fat, sugar, starch, 
all contain a great quantity of carbon. The purest carbon is 
the diamond. The ring I have on my finger is made of pure 
carbon, because it is a diamond. If I were to put my ring 
into a very hot furnace indeed, it would bum as a piece of 
coal or fat will. It is mixed with no other substance ; and for 
that reason it is called an element, which means that it is made 
of only one thing. Carbonic acid gas sounds a little like car- 
bon, but they are very different things, as you will soon learn. 

Our bones are surrounded by two things — flesh and fat. 

Eere I showed Auzoux's modeL 



SUBSTANCES IN THE BLOOD, 37 

^ov flesh and fat are entirely different snbstances, and this 
I hope to make yon clearly understand before I finish my lec- 
tures. You see I have three bottles all standing in a row 
together. They contain lime, gelatine, and phosphorns. Here 
is a common match, that has some phosphorus at the end of it. 
Gelatine, which is glue, is made from bones by boiling them. 
Lime you often see your mothers use when they whitewash 
the walls or ceilings of your houses. Our bones are made 
almost entirely of these three things. All the 206 bones in 
the body ought to be firm and strong when a child is seven 
years old ; but if a child has not been fed on food that contains 
the three things 1 have just mentioned — lime, phosphorus, 
and gelatine — its bones will not be firm, and it will grow up a 
poor miserable little ricketty creatnre : its legs will be crooked ; 
its little frame will be too weak to support the flesh ; the bones 
.n the spine will give way, and it will be deformed. You have 
all seen poor little men and women with big heads and small 
bodies. They are called dwarfs. A lady in Leeds not long 
ago counted the number of cripples, dwarfs, and ricketty chil- 
dren who pELSsed by her house as they were coming from the 
mills. I dare not say how many she counted. 

It is no use to buy lime, gelatine, and phosphorus in a 
druggist's shop ; these three things must be in the food we 
eat, or else they will not make bone. There is only one kind 
of food that contains these three things, and all the many 
substance;? that the blood requires. It is milk. 

Here is the blade-bone robbed of its earthy matters, that 
is, of its lime and phosphorus, by soaking it in an acid, so that 
it appears somewhat as it would be if a child had not been fed 
un milk. You see it is quite soft. I can bend it any way, 
because it only contains the animal matter which gives us 
in boiling the gelatine, no lime nor phosphorus. It is said 
that for every rich man's child that dies poor men lose three, 
because their wives go out to work, or to nurse those rich 
men's children, and do not give their own babies the milk God 
intended they should have. 

I will now describe the circulation of the blood. When 
anything circulates it must set off from a certain spot, and it 
must return to that same spot again. Now I will prove that all 



38 THE CIRCrLATION. 

our blood leaves a spot, the bottom part of the left side of ib*^ 
heart, and returns to exactly the sanae spot after it has nonrishei' 
nearly every part of our bodies ; therefore it will have circu- 
lated. I wish to tell jon that the heart can do this won dor fa 1 
work in about three minutes. The heart of a man is about the 
size of his fist ; the heart of a baby is also the size of its fist. 
Our hearts, which are made chiefly of contractile flesh or 
muscles, are divided down the middle by a strong wall of flesh ; 
the good clean blood is all kept on the left side ; all the dirty 
blood is on the right side. Some big tubes, called arteries, 
carry all the good blood from the left side of the heart to every 
part of the body. I have written the word artery on this 
sheet, and painted it a bright red, because the good blood 
is a bright red, as it contains a great deal of oxygen 
gas. The arteries are very strong tubes ; they have three 
coats. In the outer coat there are some elastic fibres 
which permit the artery to stret^^h out lengthways. The coit 
underneath this has muscles which go round the arteries, and 
make them come together or contract. By this means the 
arteries keep stretching out and pulling in, and so force the 
blood on, so that it flies about to every part very faf3t. There 
is a third coat inside those I have described ; it is beautifully 
smooth, so that the blood may easily pass over it. 

I will now point out to you the large arteries in the lower 
part of the body. There are thousands and thousands of 
little arteries which spread out from the larger arteries to every 
spot of the body. Though the good blood flies along so 
quickly, it finds time to feed the forty organs with fresh stufi', 
and also to carry away the parts of the organs that liave be- 
come worn out. I will tell you how this is done in the next 
lecture. Don't you think it is very wonderful ? Of course the 
blood at last becomes very dirty. Dirty blood would not feed 
the organs ; it would only make them unhealthy and diseased. 
How is the dirty blood to be carried away and made clean ? 

I will tell you how it is managed. Every artery has a 
servant that carries away the dirty blood up to the right side 
of the heart, through which all the dirty blood is sent on to 
the lungs. This servant is called a vein. It is a strong pipe 
of membrane, but not so strong as an artery, though it has 



ARTERIES AND VEIIvS 

three skins. I told yon that there were thousands of little 
arteries ; there ninst also be thousands of little veins, because 
every arrery must have a vein fastened to the end of it in a 
very peculiar way, to carry away the dirty blood. A l l the 

Fio. 16. 



S.. 



t 



This diaptam shot»? the frrent arten* called the aorfa separated hnm the h^a-t. 1 is thft 
part of the artery that is fastened to the left side of the hear*-, where all the gond blo-'d 
is held. 2 and 2 are the arteries that carry tlie goo I blood into the amis ; 3 and 3, 
those that carry the blood into the head ; 4 art^rj- which divides into three hrnnches to 
feed the strmach, liver, and spleen ; 5, arteries that go to the kidnej's ; 8 8, aiterics 
that carry the good blood into the lower parts of the body and legs. 

veins in the body join together and make two big veins. 
Tliey are to be seen in this picture (fig. 18, page 42, marked 
1).^ This upper vein, called the superior or upper vena cava, 
brings all the dirty blood from tho head and upper limbs, and 
^his other below it, marked 2, called the inferior or lower vena 

' ^Marshall's diagram, fig. 16. 



-fir 



THE CIRCULATION 

Fig. 17. 




View of the chest (or thorax) and the abdomen. The front part of the diaphragrn has 
been cut away to show the organs in the abdomen. The lungs have L een taken away 
from the chest ; only the heart h is left ; the bag (or pericardium) which holds the 
heart has also been removed. The heart is held by some large blood-vessels— namely, 
p, the pulmonary artery, that takes the bad blood into the lungs to be cleaned ; a, the 
great artery called the aorta, that carries the good blood to all parts of the body from 
the left side of the heart ; c, the gceat vein (superior or upper vena cava) that brings all 
the dirty blood into tli > top room the right si Je of the heart from the upper parts of the 
body, and the other vein (inferior or lower vena cava) , marked v, which brings all the dirty 
blood from the organs in th^ abdomen and the lower parts of the body also up into the 
top room of the right side of the heart. This vein is seen going through the diaphragm 
marked d. The left kidney (right in the picture) n, is s-en in its natural position with 
its arteries and veins going into and out of it. Th • pipe or duct u, which carries the 
wat«r from t'le kidnev to the bladder, can be seen fastened to the bladder, which lies 
nearly concealed in the pelvis. The right kidney has been taken away ; it has also a 
pipe like the left kidney. I, the bladder, m, muscles. 



COURSE OF THE BLOOD. 41 

cava, is carrying all the dirty blood from the lower part of the 
body up to the heart. These two veins ponr all the black 
dirty blood into the top part of the right side of the heart, 3. 
Remember there is a very strong wall of flesh that goes down 
throngh the middle of the heart, 6. Not a drop of blood can 
run from the right side into the left side of the heart. In the 
right side of the heart there are two rooms or chambers, 2 
and 3, and in the left side of the heart there are also two 
rooms, 10 and 11. All these rooms have most curious little 
doors, called valves, which open and shut. About three 
ounces of blood will flow into each room at a time, and then 
the little door will shut and not allow any more to pass in. 
We will now suppose that three ounces of dirty blood enter 
into the top room on the right side. When the door from 
the vein is shut behind it, the blood will flow through the 
other door, which will close in the same way. Directly the 
three ounces of blood get into the bottom room the wonderful 
little heart will pump it all through particular pipes, called 
pulmonary arteries, into the lungs, where it is made clean and 
of a beautiful bright red colour by the oxygen which the lungs 
ought to contain. The clean blood will then be carried by 
other pipes called pulmonary veins, to the top room on the 
left side of the heart. Three ounces will flow through the top 
door, which will then shut ; the blood will then pass through 
the second door, which will then instantly close. Directly it 
reaches the bottom room the heart will pump it into this large 
red artery, called the aorta (p. 30), which will carry it by 
many branches to every part of the body. You see I have now 
brought the clean blood back to exactly the same spot it set 
off from ; therefore it has circulated over every part of the 
body. I will show you the four rooms and the doors, or 
valves, in this model when the lecture is over. 

Before I conclude my lecture I will explain why it is that 
we hear our hearts beat. You see the heart comes to a point 
at the lowest part, where the two rooms are placed which 
pump up the blood. Now, the heart in pumping out the bJood 
from these two rooms forces this pointed part against the ribs, 
and so makes that sonnd or noise which we call the beating 
of the heait. 



42 THE CIRCULATION. 

Fk:. 18. 




View of the heart with its several chambers exposed, and the large blood-vessels that 
either carry away the Hood from these charnlers or brings blood into thtm. 1, superior 
or upper vena cava ; 2, inferio • or lower vena cava : 3, the upper chamber called the 
right auricle ; 4, the lower chamber called the right ventricle ; 5, the line marking the 
separation between the two chambers ; 6, the wall of flesh that separates the two sides 
of the heart, called the sei^tum ; 7, the pipe which carries away the dirty blood from 
the lowfr chamber, on the right side marked 4. into the lungs, "and is therefore calleJ 
the pulmonary arieni; at 8. the artery divides and sends one branch into the right' 
hmg and the other into the left lung ; 9. the four pipes called pulmonary veins, because 
thsy bring the good blood back into the heart and into the upper chamber marked 10 ; 
12, the great artei-y called the aorta which carries away the good blood to feed ererr 
part of the body, from the left lower chamber, marked 11. 

Things provichd for the Lecture. 

Marshall's diagram showing the circulation. 
Aiizouxs papier-mache model of the heart. 
Bottles of some of the forty substances contained in the blood. 
A sheet with all the difficult words used during the lecture. 
A blade-bone deprived by means of an acid of its earthy matter, ind. one 
properly nourished. 

Questions for the Fifth Lecture. 

1. What is an organ ? 

2. About how many different things does our blood contain ? "What is 

the name of the only food that contains the substances necessary 
to feed the blood ? 

3. Name the three things that almost entirely make our bones ? 
^-. W'hat are the names of the pipes that carry our good blood ? 
6. What are the pipes that carry our bad blood ? 

6. Describe the heart and all you can remember about the circulation. 



4;> 

LECTURE YI. 

TEE CIRCVLATIOy {continued). 

1 ONLY described to yon in mv last lecture how the blood cir- 
culates through the body, or trunk, and the lower limbs. I 
must now tell you how it circulates through the head and arms. 

I will first point out the large arteries that take the blood 
up to the head. Of course, close by their side will be the veins, 
their servants, as I have called them, to carry away the bad 
blood. Ton all know how many precious organs the skull con- 
tains — the organs of sight, hearing, taste, and smell. We must 
not forget the brain, which gives us the power of thinking 
and doing what we wish to do. All these organs require a great 
deal of good blood. Directly the heart cannot pump up blood 
into the head the brain stops working, and then we lose our 
senses, faint away, and cannot remember anything. 

When the good blood is pumped from the bottom chamber 
of the left side of the heart some part goes up into the arteries 
that branch off into the arms and head and neck, whilst the 
other part goes into the trunk and lower limbs. After it has 
nourished the different organs in the head the veins carry 
away the dirty blood, and bring it all back into this large 
vein that is on the right side of the heart. Then, as you will 
remember, three ounces of it will flow through into the top 
chamber, or room, of the right side of the heart. Then it will 
pass through the little door, or valve, into the bottom room, 
from which it will be pumped into the lungs, where it will be 
made clean, and the colour will become a bright red. The 
Jolood will then be taken by arteries into the top room of the 
left side, where the good blood is kept, flow through the little 
door into the bottom chamber, where it will be squeezed or 
pumped out into the big artery called the ' aorta,' when it 
will fly along to every part of the body at a tremendous rate. 
This wonderful little organ will keep on working day and 
night. Should it cease its work for one minute we should die. 

I said I would tell you in this lecture where the blood run? 
out of the blood-vessels to feed the body and all the organ? 
(every pipe that carries blood is called a blood-vessel). You 



44 THE CIRCULATION. 

will be astonished to hear that not a drop of blood can pass 
through the walls or skin of either an artery or a vein. There 
are most wonderful little pipes called capillaries : they come 
between every small artery and vein and join them together 
by a sort of network of pipes. It is throngh the sides of 
these small pipes that the blood rnns out to feed the body and 
all the organs. The capillaries have only one skin, and are 
finer than a single hair of our head. 

You see these two glass pipes which are intended to repre- 
sent an artery and a vein, and between them there is a small 
twisted pipe. Now, it is the twisted pipe which represents a 
single capillary, through the coat of which the blood escapes. 
Though these little capillaries are very often much twisted 
about, there is always a passage or road through them, so 
that the blood from an art-ery can run through them to a vein. 
T will now pour into the artery what we will suppose to be 
pure blood. You see that the blood continues a beautiful bright 
red until it comes to the vein, when it becomes a dark bluish- 
black colour : the reason of this is that the oxygen gas and 
some of the good blood have run through the walls of the 
capillary into the flesh to feed the body and organs, and the 
dirty blood, which is fall of carbonic acid gas and worn-out 
stuflP of the body, has come into the capillary and passed up 
into the vein. Certain materials in the good blood and the 
bad blood have changed places, because the good blood was 
light and the bad blood was heavy. A capillary won't allow 
two things that have the same weight to exchange places with 
each other through its skin. I will now show you a little 
experiment to illustrate this. Here is a pipe filled with some 
water that has sugar and a little red colouring matter in it. 
This end of the pipe is covered over with the same kind of 
skin that a capillary is made of. When I hold this end down 
no water runs through the skin. I will now put the pipe into 
this tumbler of clear water that has no sugar in it ; therefore 
the water in the tumbler will not weigh so heavy as the water 
in the pipe, because there is sugar in the pipe- water, and for 
that reason the capillary skin will allow the heavy sugar-and- 
water to run through into the tumbler, and the clear water to 
pass up into the pipe. I should like a little boy or girl to 



THE CAFiLLARIES. 45 

come up and taste the tumbler- water before I put the pipe in, 
just to be sure that there is no sugar in the tumbler. We 
shall soon see whether any of the pipe- water has run through 
the skin, because it is red and will make the tumbler-water 
red. This other pipe contains some sugar-and- water, and there 
is also sugar-and- water in this tumbler ; you will find neither 
of them will change places. A heavy gas and a light gas will 
change places with each other through the skin of a capillary. 
This balloon, which is made of the same kind of skin as a 
capillary, is filled with the heaviest gas — carbonic acid gas. 
In a short time you will see that the balloon will become nearly 
empty, because the carbonic acid gas will have passed through 
the skin into the air in the room, and the air in the room, 
which, is light, will have entered the balloon. 

As it is only through the coat of the capillaries that the 
blood can pass out to feed the body, it is necessary that we 
should have an immense number of them, and they mnst be 
in every spot in our bodies. Directly the blood gets hot 
these little tubes grow bigger and swell with the heat of the 
blood, and so do the little arteiies and veins between which 
they are placed. 

I will now explain to you why onr faces grow red — that 
is, why we blush. When we are ashamed or angry our faces 
grow hot. Then all these little pipes swell and more blood than 
usual runs through them into the flesh and skin, and so makes 
our faces appear very red. When we are frightened we grow 
cold. Cold makes nearly everything become smaller ; and all 
these little tubes, whether veins, arteries, or capillaries, grow 
smaller, very little blood can get into them and run through 
the flesh and skin, and our faces must naturally grow white, 
because there is scarcely any blood to be seen through the skin. 

It is much more dangerous to cut an artery than a vein, 
for yon see that the blood pours from the heart into the arte- 
ries. If an artery was cut and you could not stop it, all the 
blood in the body would soon be drawn out. A string should 
immediately be tied very tightly above the cut in this way, 
that is, nearer to the heart,' to prevent the blood escaping 
through the cut. 

' Showed a red leather pipe with a cut in it and a black string tied above. 



4«6 THE CIRCULATION. 

A man was once reaping in a field, and cut the large artery 
in his leg. The blood jnraped out in jerks, so much at a 
time. Doctors can tell at once, by the way the blood is jerked 
out, that it is an artery, and not a vein, that is cut, for the 
blood passes much more slowly and evenly through the veins. 
Now, the other reapers in the field crowded round him and 
began to cry out for help, which unfortunately did not stop the 
bleeding. A girl ran up to him, took ofi" her garter, and tied 
it tightly round the part above the cut in this way, and it very 
soon stopped the bleeding. She saved the man's life, as he 
would have died before a doctor could have reached him. 
Every man and woman ought to learn how to act in case of 
such an accident. 

The blood in the veins runs more slowly than in the arte- 
ries, about one-half or one-third more slowly, for in the veins 
the blood has much wider channels to travel through than in 
the arteries. At certain distances there are little doors in the 
veins which shut directly a certain quantity of blood has 
passed througli them, just as the door in a mouse-trap closes 
when a mouse has passed in. These little doors sometimes 
become weak, and will not shut and open as quickly as they 
ought to do, so that the blood collects in the veins. Veins in 
this state are called varicose veins ; and washerwomen and men 
who, like them, have to stand a great deal, sufier very much 
from this complaint. These veins are placed near the skin. 
The arteries are placed much deeper down, to prevent their 
being injured. Large arteries are very near the bones in a 
kind of httle gutter. The best thing to do when anyone has 
a complaint called varicose veins is to keep the limb up as 
much as possible, and to rub the blood up, and help it to get 
through the little doors on its way to the heart. 

A maid-servant of ours had a very had leg caused by these 
varicose veins. A doctor told me to let her wear some elastic 
stockings, that would keep the veins up, and she found they 
did her a great deal of good. In such cases you can sec the 
veins with their black blood spreading out under tho skin like 
the branches of a tree. 

Xow, it is very dangerous for a person with a weak heart 
— that is, when those little doors in the heart do not open and 



AKTF.rwl£S AND VEINS. 47 

shnt very perfectly — to run to catch, a train, or to go quickly 
either up a hill or up a flight of stairs. The muscles which 
surround the veins move very quickly when we run, and they 
work the blood up towards the heart just as we do when we 
press the veins up with our hands. Blood then gets too 
quickly to the heart. The doors cannot open fast enough to 
let it pass through to the bottom rooms, where it is pumped 
into the lungs to be cleaned, and into the big artery to be carried 
all over the body. 

For many hundred years doctors were trying to discover 
how the blood was carried over the body. It was generally 
thought, I believe, that the arteries only carried a spirit or 
air. About two hundred years ago a doctor named William 
Harvey discovered the circulation of the blood — that the ar- 
teries carried the good blood from the left side of the heart, 
and the veins brought back the dirty blood to the right side 
of the heart, and so on. But he did not know anything about 
the capillaries ; he thought the blood ran out through the 
arteries and veins to feed the organs. In those times there 
were no magnifying glasses or microscopes which were power- 
ful enough to enable him to see the capillaries, which you 
know are too fine to be seen by the naked eye. When Harvey 
had been dead several years, very powerful microscopes were 
invented, and Malpighi was then able, with their help, to see 
that at the end of every small artery there is a network of 
fine little pipes, or capillaries, as they are called, which is also 
united at the other end to a vein. 

Quadrupeds, or four-fuoted animals, and birds, have hearts 
like ours ; but in reptiles there are only three rooms in the 
heart, and in fishes only two. By means of a heart their blood 
is also carried through arteries, veins, and capillaries. The 
skin in a frog's foot is very transparent, and so thin and clear 
that you can see through' it, and watch the blood flying 
through the capillaries that are twisted about. Blood looks 
white, not red, in them. Doctors often place the foot of a 
live frog under the microscope. Of course you could not 
see the circulation unless you looked through very powerful 
glasses. There is only one skin to a capillary, and therefore 
WQ can see through it. It would be impossible to see 



4)8 THE CIRCULATION. 

through au artery or a vein, because they have three 
skins. 

I will now show you a model of the chest containing the 
two lungs, and the heart lying between them. I will point 
out the large artery called the aorta, and I will show you the 
two large veins that bring the dirty bloDd back to the left side 
of the heart, called the upper vena cava and the lower vena 
cava. This time I will open the heart, and let you see the 
doors or valves that lead into the bottom rooms. 

Things provided for the Lecture. 

Marshall's diagram showiiifr the circulation. 
Glass artery, vein, and capillary. 
Auzoux's paper-mache model of a heart. 
A spirit lamp. 

1. To show what is called osmosis, I had a small glass tube which con- 
tained pink-coloured water with some sugar in it, the top of the tube 
being covered with a thin membrane. This I first placed in a tumbler 
of water which also had sugar in it, with tlie top of the tube downwards : 
the liquids being of the same density, no exchange took place. I next 
placed it in a tumbler of clear water, when both sugar and colouring 
matter came through the skin which covered the top of the tube, and 
sweetened the water in tne tumbler, whilst water also passed into the 
tube. 

2. To show that an exchange takes place between gases of diflferent densi- 
ties I have a small balloon made of a thin membrane filled with carbonic 
acid gas. The gas escapes through the membrane and leaves the balloon 
with a f-mall quantity of ordinary air. 

To show how to stop au artery I tied a string above a :ut that was made 

in a soft red leather tube. 
A sheet with all difficult words written large for children to copy. 

Questio)is for the Sixth Lect%re. 

1. As no blood can run through the coats or sides of an artery or vein, 

how does the blood get out to feed the body and the forty organs' 

2. Why do our faces become very red when we are ashamed, or white 

when we are frightened ? 

3. If an artery was cut, how would you stop it from bleeding? 

4. Why is it dangerous for people who have heart complaints to run to 

aitch a train or to go quickly up a hill or up a Hight of stairs ? 



49 



LECTURE VII. 
RESPIRATIOy. 



i AM going to-day to explain how the heat in our bodies is 
made, and how the blood is cleaned in the Inngs. 

I told you that charcoal is nearly pure carbon, and that 
fat contains a large quantity of it. Here is some charcoal in 
tliis bottle ; you see it is a black substance. I have a candle 
here ; there is a great deal of fat all round tbe wick. The 
wick of a candle is only made of cotton. I will now turn 
some of the fat which is in the candle into carbon — a black 
substance. I must have heat first, or I could not make the 
candle change at all : nothing can be changed without heat. You 
must all of you remember this. The candle is now lighted and 
very hot, and I will hold a white plate over the top of it, and 
you will see that the plate will become very black. If I held 
it long enough all the candle would have burnt away, and I 
should have a great deal of this black substance. You will 
say that that black stuff is only smoke, the same that comes 
I'rom all the chimneys in Leeds when coal is burnt ; and so it 
is exactly the same substance as the smoke and the soot that 
sweeps come and carry away in large sacks when they have 
swept our chimneys. It is very wrong that so much carbon 
should be wasted, for it is not at all necessary. A careful 
engine-driver will not allow any smoke to come out of his 
chimney ; he burns every bit of coal he puts on his fire. 
Watch and see the next engine that is passing by, and you 
will find that only steam, which is water turned into gas or 
vapour, not smoke, comes out of the chimney. ^Yliat a plea- 
sant town Leeds would be if we had no smoke ! We should 
be more healthy, and also save our money as well as use less 
coal. Coal, it is said, is growing very scarce. 

I have a spirit-lamp here. Pure spirit contains only a 
little carbon. You see the wick of this lamp is much larger 
than the wick of a candle. You will find when I light it, that 
the wick will not grow black like the wicl: of a candle, nor 

E 



50 RESPIRATION. 

will the white plate become covered with smoke when I hold 
it over the lamp, because I have not been burning fat, but 
spirit, or alcohol. 

When yon burn anything I dare say yon think the thing 
you have burnt is quite destroyed — that it is no longer to be 
found in the world — but you must never think that any more. 
God does not allow us either to destroy or to waste any of the 
matter that He has made. By burning we only change the 
thing we burn into something else. I have now burnt about 
an inch of this candle — that is, I have turned a great part of 
that inch of fat into this black stuff, and I have also made 
some carbonic acid gas. Carbon is very fond of oxygen gas. 
Directly they come together hot, they make a great deal more 
heat, and very often a flame of fire. 

Here is a bottle of oxygen gas, and here is a piece of char- 
coal which is nearly all made of carbon. The charcoal is hot, 
you observe ; I will put it into the oxygen, and you will see 
what a bright flame and what a great deal of heat is made. 
This candle has just a little spark of light on it. I will put it 
into this other bottle of oxygen, and it will also burst into a 
flame, and cause great heat. This bottle, you know, was full 
of oxygen a minute ago, and made the lighted candle bum so 
brightly ; but the oxygen and carbon have joined together, 
and have made a new substance, carbonic acid gas. There is 
no free oxygen left. The bottle is now full of carbonic acid 
gas ; this I will prove to you, for directly I put a lighted 
candle into it the light wiU go out. If a great many candles 
are burning in a room they will fill the air Nvith carbonic acid 
gas, because the carbon in the candle will join with the oxygen 
that is in the air of the room and make carbonic acid gas. The 
flame of one candle will require as much oxygen as a man 
aeeds to keep his blood pure, and the candle will also make 
.^,n equal quantity of carbonic acid gas. There is a great deal 
of carbon in gas. One gas-light will use as much oxygen as- 
three men, and make three times as much carbonic acid gas. 
No wonder that people feel very sleepy and faint in theatres, 
workshops, and churches, which are crowded, badly ventilated, 
and hghted by gas or by a great many candles In nurseries 
where children sleep, or in bedrooms — particularly where in- 



THE LIIN-GS AXD WINDPIPE. 51 

valids are placed — gas ought not to be used, unless the room 
is large and very well ventilated. 

Nearly all the heat there is in the world, and nearlj all the 
heat we have in our bo- lies, is made by oxygen and carbon 
joining together. Our b^ood contains a great deal of carbon 
and an immense quant'"*;y of oxygen. I will now explain 
where the oxygen ineeln the carbon in our bodies, and how 
the blood is made clean ?,nd hot in the lungs. 

First of all I must iell you about the lungs and wind- 
pipe. We have two lings ; one lies on each side of the 
heart. This is a mer'^ful arrangement, as, in case one lung 
becomes diseased, the/-e is another left. People with only 
one healthy lung hav: been known to live for a long time. 
Each lung is covered, by a bag of membrane, which is always 
kept moist, so that it can move easily about. The heart, that 
lies between them, is also held in a moist bag of membrane. 
The lungs and heart are protected and covered by the ribs 
and the breast-bone. The back and front of the chest are 
lined by the same membrane or skin which covers the lungs. 
It is called the ' pleura.' You have heard, perhaps, of a com- 
plaint called ' pleurisy.' This complaint is caused by an in- 
flammation of the skin that lines the chest and covers the 
lungs. Sometimes only one of the two bags Avhich hold the 
lungs becomes inflarned, occasionally both. When both are 
affected it is, of course, much more serious. The two lungs 
are quite separated from each other. 

Next I must describe the windpipe. By the word wind- 
pipe I mean the pipe that leads down from the mouth into 
the lungs. The windpipe is wonderfully made. Here is a 
picture of it.' There are strong rings of gristle that nearly 
go round the pipe ; they are fastened to a band composed of 
flesh that runs down the back of the windpipe. If there were 
not these firm little rings to keep the windpipe stretched out, 
the sides of the pipe might fall together, and then no air could 
get into the lungs. A windpipe is a very good name for this 
tube, for it carries all the wind, or air, through the nose and 
mouth down into the lungs. When this curious pipe gets 

' See diagram, page 52. 



52 



liESriRAIION. 



down some way, it divides into two tubes, one of wliieli, called 
the right bronchns, goes into the right lung, and the other, 
called the left bronchus, into the left lung, and then from 
each of these thousands of little pipes, called bronchial tubes, 
branch out like the branches of a tree, only the branches 
gradually get smaller and smaller, until they become very 
tine, but not so fine as the hairs of our head. They end in 

Fig. 19. 




<r larvnx. the box ■s\-here ilic voice is made ; b. windpipe (or trachea). I i? a long in 
its natural state. On the other side is seen a lung, c, that has had the fleshy part (vrhich 
is hke a piece of sponge with thousands of little holes) taken away, so that the air-pipes, 
or bronchial tubas, which carry the air into the little holes, may be seen. 



fine little pipes, to which are fastened little cells or air- 
bladders.^ Each one of these air-bladders looks like a small 
white grape. There are, it is calculated, about six million 
^ittle air-cells in the two lungs. 

You have all seen a piece of honeycomb ; I have a piece 
here. It is said that the lungs are very like a honeycomb. 
J^ow all round the out.side of these air-cells there are very fine 
little pipes, the capillaries of the lungs, into which the dirty 



I here showed a fine glass pipe which had a glass Lall at the end 



of it. 



HEAT OF THE BLOOD. 53 

{Jood comes to be made pure. It is said that if all the little 
pipes, or capillaries, that are placed close together round the 
air-bladders were fastened together, they would reach, across 
to America and back — fire thousand miles. So you may 
fancy ^vhat an immense quantity of dirty blood can be put 
into them, though they are so fine and small. 

I told you there was a great deal of carbon in the blood. 
Every time we take in a breath of good air oxygen flies down 
through oar nose, and mouth too, if it is open, into the wind- 
pipe, and then into these little pipes (called bronchial tubes), 
and then enters into these little air-bubbles at the end of each 
tube. The air, especially the oxygen, gets through the coats 
of the air-bladders into the blood — that is, into the capillaries 
which lie all round the outside of the air-bladders. As this 
oxygen goes into the blood from the air-cells, carbonic acid gas 
passes from the blood into the air-cells : and so the blood is 
made pure and bright. When, again, this oxygen meets 
with carbonaceous matters in the blood or in the body, it and 
the carbon meet, join together and make a great deal of heat 
and vapour, but not a flame, or we should be burnt up. So 
that th« oxygen that runs down our windpipe not only makes 
a great heat when it unites with the carbon of the blood, and 
of all the tissues of the body, by which the heat of the body is 
kept up, but it turns the dirty dark blood into a bright red 
colour, and makes it pure and clean. There is a great deal 
of oxygen in the arterial blood in the body. When this 
oxygen flies through the coats of the capillaries it meets with 
its dear friend carbon in every spot, for there is a great deal 
everywhere. They join together and make a great heat, and 
produce carbonic acid gas. 

The heat in our bodies is almost always the same, summer 
and winter. The hands and feet and face are all much colder 
in winter than in summer ; the blood gets colder just in those 
parts of the body which are not covered over with clothing. 
The cold air makes the capillaries very small, so that less 
blood can get into them. Doctors find out by this little 
instrument which I hold in my hand, called a thermometer 
that the blood has always the same heat, summer and winter, 
if we are well — that is, about 98 degrees and a half. It is a 



54 RESPIRATION. 

little hotter in some parts of the body than in others. The 
word ' thermometer ' means a measurer of heat. Yon see 
that there is a little glass pipe running down the middle df 
this thermometer. By the side of the pipe are dark lines, 
and each of the spaces between these lines is called a degree ; 
and there are figures which mark the number of degrees. At 
the end of the pipe you see a little glass ball. It is full 
of a substance called mercury, which looks like silver. 
I have often told you that heat makes nearly everything grow 
bigger, and cold makes nearly everything smaller. Now, 
mercury is a substance which grows hot and cold very 
quickly. Let us see where the mercury now stands. It is, I 
see, opposite 60°. The air in this room is therefore sixty 
degrees. Kow I will put the thermometer into boiling water, 
which is much hotter than this room, and you will see that 
the mercury grows so big that it will run up through the 
little pipe nearly to the top, and stay by a figure that is 
marked 212° ; and you will see written opposite to that figure 
' Boiling-point.' The mercury tells you how hot or how cold 
the air of a room is, or any substance we put it into ; it tells 
us the water is at boiling-point. When we give anyone a hot- 
water bath, we always ought to have a thermometer and put 
it into the water to tell ns the proper heat. If the mercury 
goes beyond the proper heat for a hot bath, it w-iU. be too hot. 
Children are often put into water a great deal too warm. 
They are not only nearly scalded, but very much weakened, 
by the great heat, all because the nurse trusted to finding out 
by her hand instead of using a thermometer. Some hands 
that are accustomed to be a great deal in hot water become so 
much hardened that they are quite unable to tell the heat 
that a bath ought to be. The doctors, when they want to 
find out the heat of the blood, don't put the thermometer ol 
the hands or face, but they put the little ball filled with 
mercury under the tongue or on some part of the body which 
is well covered up, and where the cold air cannot get to chill 
the blood. It is most important you should understand about 
a thermometer, for unless you do you will not be able to 
understand when I tell you how to cook food. 



THK THERMOMETER — HEAT OF THE BLOOD. 55 

Things provided for the Lecture. 

A thermometer. j Some pieces of charcoal. 

A. candle. | A glass windpipe and bronchial 

A spirit lamp. tube with air-bubble. 

A white plate. Stodmann's model of the chfst. 

Diagram of windpipe. i page 59. 

Two bottles of oxygen gas. A piece of honeycomb. 

Questions for the Seventh Lecture. 

1. Why do people feel sleepy and faint who sit in a room where tbert- 

are a great many candles or gaslights burning? 

2. What is the name of the pipe that carries all the air we breathe 

into our lungs? Tell me all you can remember about it. 

3. If all the blood-vessels or capillaries of the lungs were joined 

together, how far would they reach ? 

4. How is the blood made clean in the lungs ? 

5. What are the names of the two things that join together in our 

bodies and make our blood warm and give us all our heat ? 

6. How do doctors find out the heat of the body ? What is the right 

way to find out the proper heat that a hot bath should be into 
which you are going to put a little child ? 



LECTURE VIII. 
RESPIRA TI ON {continued). 

You learnt from what I told you in my last lecture that our 
blood is the same heat both in summer and winter. It is a 
curious fact that, if we were even to breathe air as hot as 
boiling water, our blood would still be exactly the same heat. 
Some years ago there was a man — Chabert — who was 
called the Fire King. He could go into an oven, the air of 
which was from 400° to 600°. He would stand in the oven 
five minutes, and it was found that when a thermometer was 
put under his tongue while he was in the oven, the heat of 
his blood was very nearly the same as when he entered it. J 
must tell you that he perspired immensely ; no doubt a great 
deal of the heat was carried off by tlie sweat which came out 
of his skin. Young girls are accustomed in France to go 
into large bakers' ovens when ^hey are at 183°, in order to 
attend to the loaves of bread. Though a great many animals 



56 RESPIRATION. 

have the same organs, and are made exactly like hnmao 
beings, no other animal but man could perform this feat. 
Why ? Simply because he has reason, and has learnt by the 
use of his reason that as the bottom and sides of the oven are 
hot. he must wear thick shoes, or his feet would be burnt by 
standing on the hot iron. The same reason and intelligence 
enable men and women to live in very hot countries, such as 
India. There they find they must wear much lighter clothing 
than they put on in England, and that they must also eat 
different foods. Men, you know, can live in countries -where 
the cold is so great that for nine months there is nothing to 
be seen but ice and snow, and the air is much colder than 
frozen water. There a man has to cover himself with skins 
of animals, which are the warmest coverings that it is possible 
to get. Very little cold can pass through them into the body, 
or heat inside escape from them. A man finds that there, 
too, he must eat and drink very different food from what he 
would do in a hot country. In cold countries people are 
obliged to eat a greater quantity of fat, which contains a 
great deal of carbon, as you know. There is more oxygen in 
the same bulk of cold than of warm air. Do you not know 
how much more hungi^y you feel on a cold winter's day than 
you do when it is very hot on a summer's day ? For instance, 
when you have been out skating on the ice, have yon, not felt 
after a little time so hungry that you could eat anything ? In 
Russia it is said that a boy has been known to drink two quarts 
of train oil and eat several pounds of tallow candles in a day. 
I will now tell you something more about the windpipe. 
You see that this pipe (a glass one)' which I hold in my hand 
is intended to represent the windpipe. At the entrance to it, 
at the back of the mouth, there is a little door. Wlienever we 
swallow any food, the little door falls down over the windpipe 
and prevents any food from getting into it. Whenever we 
are not swallowing the door is open, so that air may pass down 
into it. Now, all down the inside lining of the windpipe there 
are rows of exceedingly small little hair-like bodies, that sei-ve 
as brushes, called cilia. These cilia cannot be seen except with 

' I showed a glass model. 



THE WINDFIPK 57 

a microscope. They are always waving down and np. These 
little cilia in the windpipe serve to send np the moist secretion 
of the air-passages into the mouth. When we have a cold, 
yon know, we cough ; these little brushes keep sending up the 
phlegm that collects in the windpipe. It is very dangerous to get 
anything into the windpipe, for there is no way to get it out 
but through the mouth. The windpipe only leads do\\Ti into 
the lungs, and it could not pass through them. Many years 
ago Brunei, the celebrated civil engineer, while playing with 
his children, pretended to swallow half-a-sovereign. Unfor- 
tunately the half-sovereign really did drop down his windpipe, 
and there it remained for two or three weeks. Durinor that 
time, the leading doctors in London tried to take it out in vain. 
As he was a very clever man, and had plenty of time for re- 
flection, he decided that he would use the following means to 
extract it : A plank of wood was brought, on to which he was 
strapped. He and the plank were turned very quickly upside 
down ; he kept his mouth open, and, as he expected, the quick 
motion made the half-sovereign fly out of his mouth. In case 
a child should get anything into its windpipe, one plan is to 
turn it with its head down, clap it on the back, and shake it 

The lungs of a large man can hold above eight pints of air. 
Of course the more fresh air we can get into our lungs the better 
our blood will be. When we walk or run we take in a much 
greater quantity of air than when we are still, because we 
breathe more frequently. We also become much warmer with 
exercise, because there is so much more oxygen to unite v/ith 
the carbon. Girls sufi'er very much more than boys do from 
cold hands and cold feet, because they sit still a great part of 
the day. I am sorry to say that a great many more women 
and girls die of consumption than men. Dressmakers, milliners, 
and school-girls not only sit still for hours together, but they 
frequently sit in bad damp air which gets no sun. Everybody 
ought to know a most important fact, that when the air is 
damp the sweat, which is poisonous matter, cannot get freely 
out of the skin, as the damp air prevents evaporation and also 
shuts up the pores. This is why people have rheumatic fevers 
after sleeping in damp beds or damp sheets. The damp bed- 
ding prevents the sweat from getting out; the sweat must 



58 RESPIRATION. 

therefore remain in the blood, and causes the fever or cold. 
If the lungs are weak, the poison settles on them, and con- 
sumption is brought on. Damp shoes and stockings or damp 
clothes have the same effects ; thej prevent the sweat from 
coming out of the feet. We little know how much rheumatism 
and suffering is caused by wearing thin-soled boots and damp 
stockings. This is how children who sit on damp grass or 
earth often get hip complaints. People who live in damp 
situations or damp houses are constantly having colds or ailing 
in some way. There is very little oxygen in da.mp air. 

Doctors now send some consumptive people to cold 
countries where the air is very dry and contains plenty of 
oxygen. In Iceland, it is said, people do not have consump- 
tion, though there they have only three months' summer and 
nine months' winter. Damp, impure air is equally bad for 
dumb animals. This is the reason why horses and cows which 
are kept in dirty damp stables die of consumption. The doc- 
tors say that the best way to prevent consumption is to wear 
warm clothing, take a great deal of exercise in good fresh air, 
and to eat plenty of fat food, such as butter, oil, cream, bacon, 
and fat. By these means the appetite will grow better, the 
organs be made more healthy, and the general health improve. 
When people understand this, they will give up buying quack 
mediciues, send for a medical man, and carefully follow his 
orders. A doctor knows directly by listening to the breathing 
which lung is unhealthy. The great thing is to have advice 
before the disease has gone too far. When a person is suffer- 
ing from bronchitis, some of the little pipes, properly called 
bronchial tubes, that carry the air into the lungs, become in- 
flamed and partly closed, from cold or from checked perspira- 
tion. The air, therefore, cannot easily pass down through the 
tubes, and then the breathing becomes difficult. Directly any- 
one has this complaint, he ought to breath warm pure air, 
because warm air will make the pipes grow bigger, and then 
allow more air to pass down them. Cold air, you know, makes 
them small, and then the breathing becomes more difficult, 
because less air can get down. There ought to be a fire in. the 
room night and day ; the air in the room ought not to fall 
lower than 60° nor be higher than 70"^. Deaths occur from 



THE LUyGS, 59 

allo.wing the fire to go out at night. It is possible to keep the 
air in a sick-room both warm and pure. It is very necessaiy 
that the air should be kept pure in bronchitis and in all capes 
of illness. I told you in the last lecture what pleurisy is. In 
consumption the lungs, which are like a honeycomb and hav6 
six millions of air-cells, become disea-sed and waste away. 
Some of the air-cells close up, so that no air can get into them: 
then people suffer from shortness of breath. I should like to 
make you in some degree understand the difference between 
consumption, bronchitis, and pleurisy. I have written down 
the names of these three different complaints, which you must 
copy. 

I hope by means of this model, ^ which I showed you last 
time, to make you clearly understand that the chest, called the 
' thorax,' which contains the two lungs and the heart, is en- 
tirely separated from the lower part of the body, called the 
'abdomen,' by a very strong muscle. When the lungs are 
filling with air, the ribs rise up like the sides of a pair of bel- 
lows, and make a great deal of room, so that the lungs may 
swell out. The ribs cannot, like the bellows, however, press 
out all the air. The lungs always contain a great quantity of 
air. There is a skin that lines the back and front of the chest. 
It is this skin which is called the ' pleura,' and which be- 
comes painful when people have ' pleurisy.' Here are the 
two lungs, which are each placed in bags of the same moist 
skin that lines the chest, and is called the ' pleura.' They are 
quite separated from one another, and the little heart lies 
snugly between them in a bag also. Here is the strong band 
of muscles called the diaphragm, which completely separates 
the lungs and heart from the abdomen, and which sinks down 
directly we take in a breath, so as to make more room for the 
lungs. 

A great many children lose their lives every year from 
' croup.' If taken in time, this complaint would not be sc 
fatal. A child who is going to have the ' croup ' is generally 
seized about ten o'clock at night (that is, when it has been in 
bed a few hours) with a difficulty of breathing, and the child 

• Messrs. Stodmann's model of the chest ; natural size. 



60 RESriRATlON. 

soon makes an odd sound in its throat, like the crowing of a 
cock. A piece of membrane grows in the windpipe, and 
prevents the air from getting into the Inngs. The only thing 
to be done is to send instantly for a doctor, and light a fire if 
it is cold weather. If a doctor is sent for in time he may be 
able to prevent this piece of membrane from growing in the 
windpipe. If yon wait at all, it will be too late, for the mem- 
brane grows so very quickly. 

An infant breathes very qnickly, and its heart beats very 
rapidly, because the blood has to be pumped up very often 
into the lungs, to be made pure and warm by the oxygen it 
finds in tbem. There are three things that help to keep the 
blood warm — exercise, thought, and fat. We know that a 
baby has not much real fat on its bones, it cannot take any 
exercise, and it has not the power of thinking. When we 
think and study the blood goes more rapidly to our brains, as 
it always does to every organ of the body that is working. 
If a baby's head is kept hot it will dream and be feverish and 
restless ; it is not intended that its brains should work. For 
that reason great care ought to be taken to keep its head cool. 
A baby has generally no hair on its head when it is born, and 
the effect of this is to keep it cool. IS'urses won't believe 
this. They will cover the head both by day and when it is in 
bed, in spite of all the doctors say. Every other part of its 
body ought to be kept very warm, or the blood will not be 
able to pass through the capillaries to feed the flesh. What is 
the use of feeding a child with good food if the food, when 
it is made into blood, cannot get out of the capillaries to 
feed the body ? Cold shuts up these wonderful Httle blood- 
vessels ; therefore a child will be pined ' unless its limbs are 
covered up. 

It is very sad to see what ignorant ideas the richest and 
poorest people alike have about the way in which infants and 
children should be treated, I constantly meet the children of 
the rich and educated classes on a cold winter's day walking 
out very smartly dressed— hats covered with feathers and 
ribbons. Then I look down and see their poor little legs quite 

' ' Pined ' is a Yorkshire -word for starved. 



WARMTH — FliLbU AIK. *M 

bare. These poor children are generall}^ not allowed to mn 
and keep themselves warm, lest they should fall and injure or 
dirty their fine clothes. The nurse is often cross, and the 
children are cross, and the little things return home very cold 
and very unhappy. A beggar's boy, with his bare head and 
his naked legs and feet, is much better off after all, because 
he is able to run and enjoy himself, and by that means keep 
warm. 

More little girls die than boys every year. Mothers put 
their little boys into jackets and trousers at a very early age, 
because they like to see them look manly. The girls are left 
with bare arms and necks, because they are considered to look 
tnuch prettier dressed in this way. The skin that is exposed 
to the cold air gets chilled, and then the pores become closed, 
and the sweat is thrown in and poisons the blood and brings 
on illness. Every part of the body should be covered up, 
except the face and the hands, with some light woollen ma- 
terial which will not easily take fire. Fresh air is more 
necessary for a baby than for a grown-up person ; yet you 
constantly see mothers carrying their infants with a thick 
shawl put over their faces and mouths. If the blood becomes 
tilled with carbonic acid gas it will not move ; and directly the 
blood cannot get to the head all our senses fail, and we faint, 
or a baby will perhaps have convulsions. The only way to 
restore the senses is to take the persons into fresh air, and 
place them flat on their backs, with their head a little raised; 
the oxygen will then fly into the lungs and make the blood 
pure and alive. 

A person who falls into water is suffocated, or drowned, 
because the water has filled his mouth and shut the little door 
down over the windpipe, so that no air can get into the lungs. 
The blood will not move from the lungs into the heart when 
it cannot have any oxygen; therefore the brain can get no 
blood and will not work ; then the drowning person loses his 
memory and senses. The great thing is to get all the water 
out of his mouth. See that he has nothing tight round his neck 
or chest. Turn him instantly on his face, and place your hand 
under his forehead, and let the water run out which has gone 
down his throat; then turn him round; catch hold of his 



02 RESPIRATION. 

tongtie with \ oar fingers— do not be afraid of hurting him — 
and pull it out as far as ever you can. Then tie a string, if 
you hare one — or tear off a strip of your pocket-hand- 
kerchief — across the tongue and round the lower jaw, to 
prevent the tongue from falling back into the throat. If it 
does, it Avill shut up the opening into the windpipe, and no 
air will be able to get down. Until he can breathe it is not 
only nseless but dangerous to try and warm his body. Turn 
him again on his face, to be quite sure that all the water has 
come out and the air-passages are all free. Then, when he is 
on his back, the head slightly raised, lift his arms up and down, 
because when the arms are up the ribs stretch out, and the 
lungs can hold more air. Do this several times, till you see 
he tries to breathe himself. Of conrse do not let people 
crowd round ; give him all the oxygen and fresh air you can. 
Then, if a house is near, carry him, with his head slightly 
raised, into it, and try to restore heat gradually by rubbing 
and hot blankets. Ignorant people always think the fir.'<t 
thing they must do is to make the person warm. I^ow this 
is a very dangerous thing to do, because the blood cannot 
circulate nntil fresh air can get into the lungs. People have 
been known to come to life when they have been in the water 
for some time, because the heart may continue to beat very 
softly long after the senses and memory have failed. 

Directions about bathing will be found in Appendix I. 

Things vrovided for the Lecture. 

Stx)dmann's model of the chest contiiining the lungs and heart, 

A thermometer. 

Glass -windpipe vr'iih epiglottis and bronchial tubes. 

Questions for the Eighth Lecture. 

1. Is the heat of our blood always the same jn summer and -winter? 

2. Why do damp beds, damp clothes, vret feet, and damp, impure air 

give people rheumatism, fevers, colds, consumption, and other 
complaints? 

3. "Why do more liit^e girls than boys die every year from chest com- 

plaint? 

4. "What -would you do it a person fainted? 

5. How would you try and bring back life to a dro-wning person ? 



68 



LECTURE IX. 

THE BRAIN AND NERVOUS SYSTEM. 

The first part of mj lecture to-day will be npon the brain, 
wbich lies in the skull, and also about the nerves, which come 
from the brain. I shall tell jou more abont the nerves when 
I tell yon abont the senses. 

The sknll, yon know, is a very strong box made of twenty 
two bones, which are fixed together in the form of an arch 
above, as you see in this picture of a human skull. It rests 
on the top of the spine, or backbone. Here is a picture of the 
top part of the brain; you see it is divided into two equal 
parts. These two divisions are called the big brain. They may 
well be called the big brain, because they fill up the forehead, 
and the top of the head, and extend to the back of the skull. 
The proper name for this part is the cerebrum. You would 
not think, by looking at the picture of the big brain, that it is 
only one mass of brain, but it is possible to take the big brain 
and make it lie flat in one whole piece. 

I will just try and crumple up my pocket-handkerchief 
into folds, to try and make you understand why the brain 
appears as it does. These folds are called convolutions. A 
doctor could tell you a great deal about them. It is said that 
clever people have a great many more convolutions than 
stupid people. If you were to pinch or press the big brain you 
would cause no pain, as it contains no nerves of feeling; but a 
bloiL would do it great injury, because it would take away all 
power of memory and thought. You know how a blow or a 
fall on the head will stun either a human being or a dumb 
animal, so that it forgets for a time all that has happened. A 
sailor once fell from the rigging of a ship on to the deck, and 
was taken up insensible. He remained insensible for several 
months at a hospital in Gibraltar. Apparently his body was 
healthy all the time, for he ate and drank and slept well ; the 
only motion observed was the constant moving of his lingers, 



64 



THE BRAIN AND NERVOUS SYSTEM. 



and of bis tongne and lips when lie required food. At last I13 
■was hrongrht over to Encjland. Mr. CHne, a celebrated London 
surgeon, examined bis skull, aud found tbat a piece of the 
bone bad been pusbed in, and was pressing upon tbe big 
brain. Tbe sailor bad now been unconscious for thirteen 
months. Directly Mr. Clinf^ lifted up the piece of bone, and 
all pressure was quite taken away, the man ceased to move 
his finders. A few hours after tbe operation he was able to 
sit np in bed. At the end of seven or eight days he walked 

Fig. 20. 




Diagram of the top part of the big brain, or cerebrum, showinjr how it is divided into 
two parts, also that the brain do^ not lie flr.t. hut is crumpled up into what are called 
convolutions. 

about and conld remember and tell of all tbat happened before 
the accident, but he could not recall a single thing that had 
happened dnring his illness. 

I tbink if nnrses could bear what I have just told you about 
tbe brain, they wonld never again venture to press the bones 
of a baby's head together. The part of the brain which looks 
in this picture like the branches of a tree, and is placed under 
the great brain, is called tlie little brain, or cerebelltim, d. 
It also is incapable of feehng pain, but may be injnred in the 
same way as the big brain by pressure. Tbe nerves of feeling 
come from this strange- looking pai't, e, which is placed nnder 
the little brain. ^ A part of this nerve-substance passes down 

' Marshall's diagram, No. 7. 



THE BRAIN AXD SPIXAL CORD. 



Go 



from the head through the middle of the baekboDe like a 
white cord. It is called the spinal cord. /. You can see two 
small nerves that look like threads come out between the 
bones on both sides of the spine, in the neck, back, and loins. 
There are thirtj^-one pairs of nerves ; they spread out like a 
fine network and reach every spot in the body.^ When you 
prick yourself with a pin it causes you pain, because the 
needle has touched a nerve. We have two skins. This outer 
one has no nerves in it, as you will find by rubbing it, or by 

Fig. 21. 




Half the brain, c. inside view of the big brain, showing tTie convohitions, or how the 
brain is crumpled up ; c is the i>art where the two halves of the brain are joined to- 
g-ether ; d, half the little brain, showing the curious white threads, like a tree {arbor- 
riite). that run tlirough the grey matter of which the little brain is made ; e, medulla 
oblongata ; /, part of the spinal cord. 



scratching it very gently with a pin. Directly the pin passes 
through it you feel the pain, because the nerves are placed in 
the second skin, called the true skin, under the first. Then 
in some parts of the body there are no nerves ; for instance, 
the tips of our nails, which are not fastened to the flesh, do 
not feel pain when we cut them. The hair on our head has 
not any ; that is why it can be cut like the nails and feel no 
pain. 

We have a great many more nerves in some parts of our 

' Marshall's di.igrani, No. 7, fig 22, page 66. 



66 



THE ^.RAI^' AND NERVOUS SYSTEM. 



bodies than in others, as the lips, tongne, feet and hands ; the 
tips of onr fingers are very sensitive ; they are provided vrith 



Front view of the con- 
tents of the skuH 
and the spinal cord, 
■nlth aH the nerves 
that go from the 
bottom of the brain 
up into tho head, 
Euch as the nerves 
of sight, hearing-, 
taste. smdl, anJ 
the nerves that 
come out of th& 
spinal cord as it 
passes down 

through the back- 
bone, callei als-> 








the vertebral 

column. a a, the 
two halves of the 
big brain (cere- 
brmn) ; b, little 
brain (cerebellum) ; 
1 to 9, the nerves 
of smell, sight, hear- 
ing, taste, Lc. ; n*, 
medulla oblongata. 
All the other ner»-es 
pass out to difierent 
parts of the body 
between the bones, 
or vQi;etn£, of tba 
spine. 



SPINAL CORD AND NERVES. 
Fig. 23. 



^1 




View of the nerves. They look like fine wiiu.- inivuus. and spread like network over 
every part of the body. They can be seen going to every organ ami muscle to make 
them move and do their work. h. the heart ; 5. part o! the stomach ; 1, piece of the 
liowels , k, kidney. This kkli.ey is the right kidney, tlioiiL,'h in the picture it appears 
to the left. 



68 



THE BRAIN AND XERVOUS SYSTEM. 



a great many little nerves. It is by this means that blind 
people are taught to read with their fingers. The sense of 
touch is so delicate in the tips of the fingers that blind people 
have been known to distinguish difi'erently coloured materials, 
and to do many very wonderful things, by the sense of touch. 



Fia. 24. 




This diagrram shows the different shapes of some of the bones that are joined together 
and make the backbone or spine. Each of these bones is called a vertebra, a and b 
are the same bone, only a is seen sideways and b from the top ; it is one of the seven 
bones that make the neck, c and d, seen in the same way, represent a vertebra taken 
from the middle of the backbone, e and/, seen in the same way, show a vertebra from 
the middle part of the loin. The pointed part that stands out in all the bones is placed 
outside ; the round smooth part lies inside the body, as will be seen by looking at fig. 9, 
page 27. 

It is said that tho most intelligent animals are those whose 
sense of touch is the finest. The parrot is the cleverest bird, 
the pads of its toes are so sensitive. The elephant is the most 
sagacious of quadrupeds ; the end of its trunk is so sensitive 
that it can feel and handle objects almost as well as we can. 

All animals which have a bony or cartilaginous skull have 
brains and a backbone, or vertebral column. It is called a 
vertebral column because each of these little bones by which - 
it is made is called a vertebra.' All animals which have » 

' I showed two or three of these bones. 



VERTEBRATE ANIMALS. 



69 



vertebral colnmn are called vertebrate animals, and many of 
them have organs like those of a human being, though they are 
not all placed in the same way. In some animals, however, 
certain organs are absent ; in others they are represented by 




Yerte'-rate animals have the f-ame organ< as hmnan beings. This picture shows how th3 
different organs are placed in a weasel, rn. mouth ; 6. brain ; t, windpipe ; p, lungs ; 
h, the heart ; /, liver ; i, intestines and stomach ; s, spinal cord. 



organs performing a similar oflBce, but having a different 
structure. Fish, for example, breathe by means of gills ; they 
have no lungs. 

I have brought pictures of the skeleton of a horse, a bird, 
a fish, and a reptile, and you will see that they all have a 
vertebral column, or backbone, and a bony skull. ^ Here is a 
frog. You can see its heart and other organs, and its foot, 
that doctors often put under a microscope to show the circula- 
tion of the blood through the capillaries. The frog is a most 
useful and curious creature, but I cannot now tell you more 
about it. When I take you to the Museum you shall see all 
the animals I have talked about. 

The animals I am going to say something about to-day 
are the horse and the donkey. Look at the horse's skull, and 
you will see that it has a very different shape from the skull 
of a man. 2 The horse's skull is flat at the top, and has a very 
small 'great brain.' All animals except man have a very 
small quantity of brain at the top of the head. You know it 



' Skeleton of a horse, page 72. 

' Show a human skull, or picture of one, page 21. 



70 



THE BRAIN AND NERVOUS SYSTEM. 

Fig. 26. 
Gills. 



Heart. 



Intestirw^.- 




— Kidn-y*, 



Tertebrale anrmal, because it has a bony skull and backbone. 



is that part of the brain which gives ns the power of reason- 
ing, and ought to make ns superior to all other animals 

Horses are very intelligent and have excellent memories. 
They never forget those who are kind to them, and can be 
made to do anything by a master they love. On the other 
hand^ a horse does not forget those who have treated him 



VERTEBRATE ANIMALS. 



71 



cmelly, and will refuse as long as he can to obey them. He 
is courageous, and will do his best to defend a friend who is 
weaker than himself. There was once a small dog that had lived 
a great deal in a stable. One day a big mastiff attacked him. 
Directly the horse saw this he went up, kicked the mastiff 
away, and sent him flying, and then walked by the side of his 
little friend till he considered him quite safe. They were in a 
field when this happened. 

Fig. 27. 




Birds are vertebrate animals. 

This is a picture of an ostrich ; it has a bony sknU and a backbota& 



Horses have so much affection that they have been known, 
it is said, to die of grief on losing a kind master or an old 
companion. They are very timid and nervous animals ; there- 
fore we know their bodies are well provided with nerves. A 
thunderstorm has made them tremble all over like a leaf. The 
reason why horses shy at objects on the road is because they 



/- THE BRAIX AND NERVOUS SYSTEM. 

arc afmid of them. Directly they nnderstand ^vhat the object 
is their fear passes away. 

The nerves of the horse, like the nerves of a human being, 
come out from between the bones of the spine, and spread into 
every part of the body. 

Fig. 28. 




Skeleton of a horse, -Rhich 15 a vertebra ? animal, because it lias a bony skull d, and 
backbone, or vertebra, .column, marked b. c, d, e. 



I told you that we had a great many more nerves in some 
parts of the body than in others The soles of our feet have 
so many that we can scarcely hear to have them touched. 
People have been tickled to death ■ in some countries this has 
been one way criminals were put to death. I am now going 
to tell you how wonderfu.lly a horse's foot, called a hoof, is 
made. If you look at the feet of a horse you will see they 
are no bigger than our feet^ though they have to bear so great 



NERVOUS SYSTEM OF A HORSE. 73 

a weiglit. I will now show you the model of one which I 
have in this box.^ You see it has not five toes as we have ; it 
has only one toe, ending in a solid piece, which supports the 
hoof. There are only three other animals that have a foot in 
one piece. They are the donkey, the zebra, and the quagga. 

Horses and donkeys live wild in hot countries where there 
are great plains of sand, as well as in countries where there 
are wide tracts of grass. Our roads in England are so very 
hard and stony that it is considered necessary to put iron shoes 
on their feet to prevent them from being injured. They do 
not wear shoes in their own countries, such as Arabia, Persia, 
and America. 

The poor donkey is a beautiful animal in its own country. 
The Persians bring up the little foals upon milk, and let them 
live in their tents as the Arabs do their horses. A donkey is 
said to be more sensible and gentle than a horse before it has 
been made stupid by cruel treatment. The more tense an ani- 
mal has the harder it is to manage after it has been unkindly 
treated. Donkeys are sold for more than a hundred crowns 
in the East, where princes and nobles ride on them. The 
Prince of Wales had a beautiful one sent him from Egypt. 
In Spain they grow tall — fifteen hands high — and are some- 
times sold for a hundred guineas. It is said that five hundred 
pounds was once given for an ass in Rome. 

You see by this model of a horse's hoof that all the front 
part of the foot is covered by a homy substance, the same 
kind of substance that our nails are made of. The horse's 
hoof is really like our middle toe, much enlarged. This horny 
substance is nearly an inch thick ; it grows as quickly as our 
nail does, because at the top of the hoof there are a great 
many arteries and capillaries that feed this horn with blood 
and make it grow quickly. It grows downwards. It is 
smooth and bright, and looks as if it had been polished ; this 
polish prevents any water from getting through. The under 
part of the foot is called the sole, as we call the under part of 
our foot a sole, only a horse has two soles instead of one. This 
that you first see is the horny sole ; it sinks in a little, so that 

' I showed Anzonx's model of ;i horse's foot. 



74 THE BRAIN AND NERVOUS SYSTEM. 

the nail that projects round the edge of it can protect it. To- 
wards the back part there is this raised part like a cushion ; 
it is called the 'frog.' The frog is a most wonderful and 
nseful part, for when it rests constantly on anything hard it 
becomes so tough and hard that even a piece of glass will not 
hurt it. By this means the horse is able to pass over the most 
stony roads in its own country, where it is not shod. Some 
people think it would be better not to shoe them at all ir 
England. 

I will now take off the hard poUshed hoof, or nail, and thv. 
homy sole and frog, in which there are no nerves, and show 
you how delicately the under sole is made. You see it is 
covered with nerves, arteries, and veins. The whole of the 
front of the hoof has these little white lines, like the leaves of 
a book, which run from the top of the hoof to the bottom, 
called laminae. There are no less than three hundred of them ; 
they are all made of a soft substance, containing many nerves. 
This is that part in our toes and fingers which we call the 
quick, which lies under the nail, and hurts so dreadfully if 
anything sharp runs down the nail. 

Now you must look and see how beautifully these three 
hundred laminas are guarded by the horny covering, or shoe. 
Each of the laminas is placed in a little horny groove to protect 
it. Under them you can see the bone of the foot, which is 
called the coffin bone. There are a great many little holes in 
the coffin bone for the arteries and veins to pass through, so 
that they may not be hurt by any pressure. Here is the tender 
sole, where there are so many nerves. 

Eveiything is done by nature to guard the foot. I am 
sorry to say there are ignorant blacksmiths and grooms who 
do their best to spoil all that God has done. First they put 
on iron shoes of an immense weight, and then they fasten 
them on by too many nails, which are sent in too far, till they 
touch some of the tender parts. Sometimes they make the 
foot fit the shoe by cutting away the homy part till it has the 
same shape as the iron shoe. Some people consider it an im- 
provement to scrape the polished hoof with a knife ; then the 
wet gets in, and the nail becomes rotten and breaks away, so 
that there is verv little horiw substance to fasten the nails to. 



THE horse's hoof. 75 

There are knives made on purpose to shave off some of the 
frog, or soft cushion ; then the horse, having nothing to pro- 
tect the tender sole, becomes lame. Cracked heels are often 
caused by cutting awaj the little tnft of hair that is placed 
at the back of the foot to guard that part. 

Exercise is necessary for horses ; the feet are very much 
injured by standing still in a hot, damp stable. The feet then 
grow tender, and the frog and horny sole grow smaller, so that 
the nerves and blood-vessels get squeezed together, and grow 
small and weak. 

The donkey's foot is very like the horse's ; the only difference 
is, that the donkey's hoof is longer and the sole more hollow. 
It is by this means that it can walk in rough and steep places 
better than the horse, because its hoof digs into the earth, and 
gets a better hold of it. 

Things provided for the Lecture. 

Marshall's diagram of the nerves, No. 7. 
Drawings of the skeleton of a horse, dog, bird, fish. 
Drawings of the organs of a frog. 
Auzoux's model cf the horse's hoof. 

The words Vertebral Column and Vcrtebrcs were written up in larpe 
letters en the blackboard. 



Questions fm' the Ninth Lecture. 

1. Describe all yon can remember about the brain. 

2. Should we suffer pain if we had no nerves ? 

3. Name some of the parts of the body that have no nerves and those 

parts that have the most nerves. 

4. Do you remember why all animals who have a bony skull are called 

vertebrate animals? 
6. Tell me all you can remember about the horse's hoof, and how it ifl 
injured by ignorant blacksmiths and grooms. 



76 DIGESTION. 

LECTURE X. 

DIGESTION. 

To-DAY we are goirig to hear about the way in which the food 
we eat is digested — that means, how it is changed by the 
different organs of digestion, and made into blood, 

I will first point out where some of the largest organs of 
digestion are placed in this part of the body called the abdo- 
men. The abdomen is separated from the chest by a large 
muscle called the diaphragm.* Here is the stomach, lying 
nearly in the middle, close under the ' diaphragm.' The liver 
is above and to the right of the stomach, and the intestines, 
or bowels, are beneath the stomach. This muscle called the 
diaphragm is a very important part, and I will try and explain 
how curiously it moves. 

Wlien you take in a deep breath of air, your ribs swell out, 
and so do the lungs. The diaphragm, instead of rising up at 
the same time that the ribs do, sinks down, and so makes room 
for the lungs to grow as big as they can. Draw in a good 
breath, and you ^vill see that this is the case. 

Our blood, as I have before said, contains at least forty 
different substances. The food is first changed in the mouth. 
The mouth is a strong box of bone which contains the 
tongue and thirty-two teeth, sixteen at the top and sixteen 
at the bottom. A learned man would at least give you one 
lesson entirely about teeth. I can only tell you enough about 
fchem to make you understand that God has given us different 
kinds of teeth, so that we may be able to eat both animal and 
vegetable food. 

Animals which live on nothing but flesh — that is, by eating 
other animals — have very different teeth from those who eat 
nothing but grass. I have brought the skull of a lion. A lion, 
yon know, eats nothing but animal food. You see he has four 
enormous teeth, two on each jaw, called canine teeth, for 
holding the prey, besides numerous molar teeth. Between 
these canine teeth the flesh is caught and pierced and torn, 

• Marshall's cliacfram. No. 3, page 4. 



THE TEEJH. 



n 



whilst the molar teeth cut it to pieces as knives would, because 
tiieii- edges are very sharp like knives. The lion can only 

Fig. 29. 




Side view oj ^he trunk of the body, showng how the diaphragm d divides the chest or 
thorax /, fttmi the abdomen a, where the stomach, hver, Ixjwels, and ihe other organs 
of digestior ; are placed. The ribs in the picture are spread out as far as they will go, 
because the lungs are full of air ; 6 is the breast-bone, or sternum. 

move his lower jaw up and down, like a chopping-machine, 
not from side to side. 

It is impossible for man or any quadruped to move 
the upper jaw, as the upper teeth are placed in those bones of 
the face which cannot move. I have brought the same human 
skull you saw at another lecture,^ as it has a very perfect set 

' I showed a liuman skull, and Low tho lower jaw moves. 



7b DIGESTION. 

of teeth. A human being can, you see, move hifc> lower jaw not 
only upwards and downwards, but backwards and forwards 
and from side to side. 

A cow is an animal that eats nothing bat gra^-i, with certain 
plants growing in it. Have you ever noticed a cow eating 
or chewing its cud in a field ? If not, watch one, and you 
will see how much it moves its lower jaw about—upwards and 
downw^ards, backwards and forwards, and froiLi side to side. 
The cow does not chop its food as the lion docM ; it grinds it 
as the mill does corn. The teeth used for grinding food are 
called mill or molar teeth ; a very good name foi* them. 

I have brought you a single tooth of an elephant. I 
should like to have brought you the skull of an elephant, 
but I found it would require four strong men to carry it. 
When we go to the Museum, I will show you all the dificr- 
ent animals and their skeletons that we have talked about 
together. Though the elephant is the largest and strongest 
quadruped that now lives on the earth, he is also one of the 
gentlest with those who treat him kindly. Mothers have 
left their children to his care for some hours. They were 
perfectly safe ; no one was allowed to touch them until the 
mothers' return. 

Animals who feed on vegetable food are always more 
gentle than those who feed on flesh-meat. If a lion has once 
killed and eaten a man, he never rests uritil he has found 
another. An Indian gentleman, who came from Bengal, told 
me last winter that he had seen a tiger who had eaten at least 
two hundred men. English gentlemen and native gentlemen 
in India enjoy hunting and shooting lions and tigers. Work- 
ing-men who are natives are not allowed to kill them. The 
consequence is that there are so many tigers that they roam 
about and kill and eat up great numbers of people. Travel- 
lers frequently find villages quite deserted. Directly the 
people hear that these animals are approaching they fly to 
other places for safety. 

Now we must examine the teeth in the human skull, to 
see what teeth we have. There are eight smaU cutting teeth, 
four in the upper jaw and four in the bottom jaw ; they come 
in the front. Between them and the three double teeth there 



THE SAi^IVA GLANDS. 79 

ai*e three other teeth on each side iu both the upper and the 
lower jaw-bone ; they cnt up the butcher's meat we eat. The 
double teeth are molar teeth ; thej grind the vegetable food. 
It is therefore intended we should eat both animal and 
vegetable food, as we have teeth that will chop up foods of 
every kind. 

Our food is first changed, as I told you, in the mouth. But 
before we put any food into it I should like you to fancy your- 
selves standing before a pastry-cook's shop, feeling very hungry. 
Wliat would happen directly you saw all the good things ? 
Your mouths would begin to water. Where did that water 
come from ? You have taken nothing to drink for some time. 
This water came from some wonderful little organs called 
salivary glands. You see this little glass ; it is of the shape of 
an almond.' It has a little pipe at the end of it. This almond- 
shaped bulb is something like the simplest form of a ^land ; 
but the glands which make the saliva consist of numbers of 
little sacs opening into the ends of a branched tube called a 
duct. We have six of these in the mouth — one in each cheek, 
and one under the tongue on each side, and one below each 
side of the lower jaw. Three and a hal^ pints of saliva are 
said to pour out of them daily into the mouth, '^o organs 
seem to me more wonderful than the glands. There are a 
great many of them in different parts of the body. 

We will now take a mouthful of meat into our mouths, and 
see what happens to it. The teeth will first cut it up into 
small pieces ; the saliva will make it soft, and the tongue 
will roll it into a ball, and send it to the back of the mouth. 
At the back of the mouth there is a little door of tlesh that 
hangs from the upper jaw. Directly the ball of food touches 
this little door it will be lifted up and cover an opening 
there is into the nose, to prevent any food from getting into 
this opening. The little door that covers the windpipe will 
close at the same time, and the ball will roll over the door 
into the gullet. Here are two glass tubes placed together 
as the windpipe and gullet are placed ; the red pipe is in- 
tended to represent the windpipe, and the yellow pipe is the 

' I showed a glass bulb in the shape of an almond. 



80 DIGESTION. 

gallet.' The gullet is the tnbe that carries the food into the 
stomach. Remember it lies behind the ^vindpipe, nearest to 
the backbone. 

The ball of food that Las just been made in the mouth' 
will not run or fly down the gullet as we think it does. The 
food will pass gi^adually downwards. It is first held bj the 
muscular fibres at the upper part ; then these muscular fibres 
press it on until, step by step, it reaches the door that opens 
into the stomach. It is not, then, because you are standing 
up that your food goes down into your stomach ; it would go 
down just as well if you stood on your head. I dare say you 
have seen a juggler perform the wonderful feat of drinking a 
glass of water when he was standing on his head. The water 
goes dow^n step by step, just as the solid food does. Cows and 
horses and all four-footed animals eat and drink with their 
heads down. They have no difficulty, because their food 
passes along a gullet made like ours. 

Xow I must tell you something about the stomach. No 
doubt you have all seen and heard a bagpipe that men play in 
the streets. It is an instrument which Scotchmen make with 
the stomach of a pig. The stomach of a man is of exactly the 
same shape. ^ It has three layers of muscular fibres. In the 
outside one there are fibres which pass downwards over 
the stomach ; in the middle one they go round it ; in the 
inner one they pass down obliquely. The fibres which pass 
downwards shorten the bag ; those which go round it make 
it narrower, and the inner fibres draw the sides of the bag 
over the food. By this means the stomach keeps moving 
the food that is in it up and down, just as a churn moves 
the milk about to make it into butter. Inside this is another 
thin skin, which is very smooth and has a beautiful pink 
colour. This is all I shall tell you about the organs of diges- 
tion to-day. 

Before I finish my lecture I should like to tell you some- 
thing which I dare say a great many of you already know 
about water. "Water is made of two gases, oxygen and 

' I sho-wed two glass pipes (the •windpipe was red, the gullet yellow) 
the J were fastened together to show the position of the two pipes. 
* I showed Ramm and Stodmann's model of a human stomach. 



ELEMENTS OF WATER. 81 

hydrogen. Yon have already heard from me a great deal 
about oxygen gas. Hydrogen is the lightest of all gases, and 
for that reason balloons .have been filled with it. A balloon, 
though it looks so large when it is filled with this gas, is 
lighter than the air about it, and therefore rises up. This 
balloon is full of hydrogen ; it will therefore float up to the 
top of the room. 

Yon must copy down w^hat is written about water on the 
blackboard : — In nine pounds of water, eight pounds of the 
whole weight wonld consist of oxygen ; only one ponnd of 
that quantity would be hydrogen. Oxygen is sixteen times 
heavier than hydrogen. 

Tilings provided for the Lecture. 

Marshall's diagram of the viscera, No. 3. 

A picture of the gullet and intestines. 

Two pipes to represent the gullet and ■svindpipe in glass. 

A little glass bladder and pipe to represent a simple gland. 

A balloon filled with hydrogen gas. 

A bottle of oxvgen gas. 

Questions for the Tenth Lecture. 

1. How are the lungs and heart kept quite separate from the stomach, 

bowels, and other organs which lie in the abdomen ? 

2. Tell me something about our teeth, and why we can eat all kinds of 

food. 

3. "What happens to our food when we put it in our moiiths, and ho"w 

does it get down into the stomach? 

4. What is the name of the pipe that carries our food to our stomach? 
6. What are the names of the two gases that form water ? 



LECTURE XL 

DIGESTION (covtinued). 



Yoa must all li.sten very attentively to what I am going to 
tell you. It is this, that unless the food we eat will mix with 
water, it cannot be turned into blood. We have a great deal 
of water in our bodies. If a person weighs 154 pounds, 111 





82 DIGESTION. 

pounds of that weight will be water, and that only leaves 4'J 
pounds of solid matter. 

In some conntries it is the cnstom to burn dead bodies 
instead of burying them. This custom is called cremation. 
There are now a great many doctors and clever good people 
in England who much approve of this plan, as they consider 
the air that comes from a cemetery very unhealthy. It may 
cause fever, diarrhoea, or common cholera; therefore dead 
bodies ought to be burned, and not put into the earth. A great 
part of our bodies turns into different gases, when we are 
burnt ; the part left, that would not burn, is called ashes. 
The ashes are made of mineral substances, such as phos- 
phorus, lime, and iron. A French gentleman was once burnt. 
Enouoh iron was found amongst his ashes to make into a 
rmg, which a friend wore. 

At my last lecture I described how the food, when it is put 
into the mouth, is chopped up by the teeth and made soft by 
the saliva. The tongue then rolls it into a ball and sends it 
to the back of the throat. The ball passes over the wind- 
pipe into the gullet, down which pipe it gradually descends 
until it gets to the opening through which it passes into the 
stomach. I described the shape of the stomach, and the 
coats it has, but I did not tell you what happened to the food 
when it got into the stomach. To-day I intend to tell you 
how a wholesome dinner of potatoes and roast beef is turned 
into good blood. The beef must consist of fat as well as lean 
meat. I shall take no liquid ; that means, neither water nor 
beer. 

The beautiful smooth pink skin that lines the stomach is 
all covered with small spots, the openings of the gastric glands. 
Directly the food has passed down the gullet, and entered the 
little opening on the left side of the stomach, these glands 
pour out a fluid called ' gastric juice.' This juice will change 
the food into a thick fluid called chyme, about the thickness of 
pea-soup. As the stomach is constantly contracting and 
moving about, the food is rolled about, as I before said, as if 
it were being churned. The gastric juice helps to dissolve it 
and changes it into this thick fluid, chyme. This chyme then 
passes down to the door at the other end on the right side, to 



SOLID FOODS. 



83 



try to get out. If the ^uid is thin enough, and the food has 
been sufficiently churned or reduced into small pieces by the 
constant movement of the stomach, this door will open and 
let it pass through, but if it is not properly diirested the door 
will not open. It is sent back to be moved about until it is 
made into a proper state. 

It is said that fourteen pints of gastric juice are poured 



Fig. 30. 









Diaeram showin;? the Ft^ma-.h s nnrl the bowels, or intf^tines : o, the door into the 
stoniadi from "the piill-t : p. pyio,u>, or door ttirouprn wt.ich ih3 food goes iiit^ the 
second stomach, call d the duodenum, which is joined to the small intjstin^s. that ar? 
♦ Aisted about and marked J; i is where t'.io small intestine U lasten^d to the larg; 
intestine, markc«i c o. co, co. This larpe iiitestm^ or bo.vel, goei up tlien across, 
orfr the second stomach, and then it comas down and enJs in the part called the 
rectum, marked r. \ 

daily into the stomach. This juice contains a very powerful 
acid; it can dissolve metals, ^nch as iron and silver, ^"t it 



84 DIGESTION. 

cannot change fat. Fat is only melted in the stomach; but 
yoa know it must be changed by sovie organ, so that it will 
mix with water, or it cannot be made into blood. Fat and 
water won't mix together. 

Directly the food passes this little door on the right side 
of the stomach it enters the first part of the small intestines, 
named the duodenum, which has been sometimes called the 
second stomach. There is, you see, a pictnre of this part of 
the intestine in this diagram, marked d. You see that a small 
tube comes from the liver and goes into the duodenum.' 
This tube is called the bile-duct, and brings the bile from the 
liver. There is a great deal of soda in the bile. 

Soda and fat, or oil, will mix together directly, and they 
make a soap. Soap, yon know, will mix with water. The 
soda which is in the soap we use to wash ourselves with mixes 
with the oil on our skins, and then the water takes the dirt off. 
Soap is usually made by putting soda and fat together. Here 
is some oil in this tnmbler. I will put some soda into it, and 
then I will add some water. You. will see after a little time 
that they have both mixed together. I will pour some oil 
into this tumbler of water, which has no soda, and you will 
find that the oil and water would never mix. The oil ^ will 
keep quite separate, floating on the top like this, because it is 
lighter than water. I must tell you what happens to the fat 
which is in the chyme when it gets into the second stomach. 
The compound of soda that is in the bile joins with the fat and 
turns it into the soapy substance which you know mixes so 
well with water. The bile and the sweet-bread juice change 
the chyme into a milky substance called chyle. There are 
mnscles in the duodenum and all along the bowels, which push 
the chyle slowly on, and squeeze a great part of it into little 
pipes, called lacteals, which cover the inside coat, or skin, of 
the bowels. These little pipes caiTy ofi" the milky fluid to a 
great many httle glands that are placed at the back of the 
bowels. These glands are called the ' mesenteric glands.' 

Now T must tell you what a curions thing happens to the 
chyle when it enters these wonderful little organs called the 
' Marshall's diagram, page 83. 
' I showed a tumbler of -water -with the oil on the top. 



THE CHYLE. 



85 



mesenteric glands. About half of the chyle is gradually 
changed into little round bodies, called corpuscles, and they 
float along in the rest of the white milky fluid through pipes 
which take it to a kind of bag that is placed in front of the 
spine, or backbone. To this bag a pipe is fastened which goes 
up by the backbone. The little white bodies go along swim- 
ming up this pipe in the white milky fluid until they come to 
the neck, where two veins meet.^ In one of the veins there is 
a little door, and the fluid passes through this door into the 
vein. 

Now we have turned the beef and potatoes into blood, but 
remember it is dirty blood, because it is in a vein, not an 
ai-tery. Before it can be made into good blood, and alive, it 
must be carried by the veins to the right side of the heart, 
through which all the dirty blood has to pass, flow through 
into the top room, and then run through the valve into the 
bottom room, where it will be squeezed or pumned through the 
pulmonary arteries into the lungs. When it gets to the lungs, 
if there is plenty of good air in the lungs, as there ought to 
be, some of the little corpuscles will be charged with oxygen, 
and away they will fly in the blood through the pulmonary veins 
to the left side of the heart, through which all the good blood 
has to pass, flow through into the top chamber, and pass 
through into the bottom room, where the blood will be pumped 
op into the big artery, the aorta, which will carry it to every 
part of the body in about half a minute. In the lungs, then, 
the last and most important part of digestion, or rather of the 
conversion of food into blood, takes place ; for unless the lungs 
contain plenty of pure air, the chyle which comes from the 
food cannot be changed into good blood that will nourish the 
body. This is seen in a case of consumption when disease has 
injured the lungs. The patient may have a good appetite and 
eat the most nourishing food and still daily grow thinner and 
weaker. If people understood this important fact they would 
take care and have plenty of fresh air when they are taking 
their meals, instead of eating in hot crowded rooms filled with 
an atmosphere that has been breathed over and over again. 

I must tell you a little more about these corpuscles. They 

' I showed the veins in Marshall's diagram, No. 4, p. 40. 



86 



DIGESTION. 



are to be found in tlie blood of all animals, but tlieir sbape is 
different in many animals. Onr red corpuscles are round like 
a sixpence, but they are pressed down in the middle like an 
air-cushion. You can see them on this diagram.^ The white 
corpuscles are muck less numerous. I must take care to let 
you know how very small these little bodies are. You must 
remember they have to pass through those little hair-like 
tubes called capillaries, which are so hue that they cannot Lo 
seen without very powerful magnifying glasses. In a drop of 
blood there would be, it is said, about three million corpuscles 
— the same number as there are people in London, which is 
the largest city in the world. The corpuscles of a hen, fish, 
or reptile are oval, like that.- 

FiG. 31. 




G, three red Mood -corpuscles from a fropr -. h, tvro red nood-corrnscleg from the moiikfi?h, 
one pcen edf,eways ; c, t-wo rrd blood-corpu>cles cf the common fowl ; rf, three mimite 
red blood-corpusde- of the poat ; e, human capillarj' vessel from the brain, showing its 
transpaent skin, s s: and also seven red ard two white blood-corpuscles insice the 
capillary tube ; the white corpuscles are marked ic. 

When a murder has been committed, if a doctor examines 
a stain of blood on any clothes belonging to the murdered 
person, he may sometimes be able to tell by the size or shape 
of the corpuscles which he finds in the blood, whether it is 
blood that has come from a human being or a dumb animal. 
An old woman came to a hospital one day, and asked to bo 
taken in, as her nose, she said, had been bleeding most 
violently. The doctor examined the handkerchief, and found 
it was covered with hen's blood. It proved that she was ver/ 
^ Marshall's diagram, No. 4. ^ Marshall's diagram. No. 4. 



DIGESTION AND CARBONACEOUS FOODS. 8' 

poor, wanted to gain admittance to the hospital, and so hac* 
killed a hen and dipped her handkerchief in its blood. 

Tilings provided for the Lecture. 

A bottle of sweet oil. 
One bottle witli water and oil. 
Some soda. 

Marshall's diagram which showed the corpuscles and the organs of diges- 
tion, No. 4. 
A picture of the stomach, bowels, and gullet (Marshall's diagram, Xo. 6). 
On the blackboard I wrote Mcaentcric Glands, Corpuscles, Chyme, Chyle. 

Questioibs for the Eleventh Lecture. 

1. If a person weighed 154 pounds, do you remember how much of that 

weiglit would be water ? 

2. Can any kind of food be digested or turned into blood unless it will 

mix with water? 

3. Describe all you can remember about the way in which a dinner of 

solid food — \jeof and potatoes — is digested and turned into good 
blood. 



LECTURE XII. 

DIGESTIOy AND CARBOXACEOUS FOODS 

To-DAT I will first explain what is meant bj animal and 
vegetable food. You will often meet people who will say, 
* We are vegetarians ; we never eat meat.' If you ask them 
if they never eat eggs, butter, milk, cream, cheese, they will 
say, ' Oh, certainly we do.' They forget that all these foods 
are most nonri.shing animal foods. The eggs we chiefly eat in 
England are those laid by hens and ducks ; milk, butter, 
cheese, and cream we get from that most useful animal the 
cow. These are therefore all animal foods. Animal food 
means any food that has come from an animal. 

Wbat is vegetable food ? It is anything that grows in 
the ground — grass, com (which is ground into flour and made 
into bread), oatmeal, rice, potatoes, sugar, &c. Sugar is a 
vegetable food. In France they make all their sugar from 
beetroot ; the sugar I hold in my hand is some I brought from 
France last autumn, which was made from beetroot.' 
' I showed a b«^etroot. 



88 DIGESTION KSD CAKBONACEOUS FOODS. 

There are, hov^^ever, some animals which may properly call 
themselves vegetarians, such as the horse, cow, sheep, and 
elephant, because they never do touch animal food, and only 
eat vegetable food, such as grass, com, or hay. When they are 
very young, it is true, they take animal food, because they 
take their mothers' milk. All animals which are fed by their 
mothers' milk when they are young are called mammals. 

Young fish, directly they are born, eat what they can find 
in the water ; many young birds eat insects. A chicken, the 
moment after it has stepped out of its shell, picks up anything 
it sees on the ground that takes its fancy, and eats it. 

Don't you think it is very wonderful that an elephant, 
which is one of the strongest and largest animals that we 
know of, should be able to gain all its strength from vegetable 
food — grass and green twigs or boughs of trees — and that a 
child can also grow strong and have all its organs well nour- 
ished by only drinking milk ? Milk is the only food an infant 
ought to have for the first nine months of its life. 

Our bones are surrounded by two things, flesh and fat. 
We must therefore eat foods called ' flesh-formers,' that wiU 
make flesh, and nourish our organs ; and foods that will turn 
into fat, called ' body -warmers.' Here is a list of our ' body- 
warmers.' They are called ' body- warmers ' because they con- 
tain carbon, which joins with oxygen and makes the heat that 
keeps our bodies warm. 







Body -warmers. 


Animal. 




Vegetable. 


Butter. 






Sugar. 


Dripping. 






Treacle. 


Suet. 






Starch, ^hich is in bread and 


Lard. 






all vegetables. 


Cod-liver 


Oil. 




Olive Oil. 



I want to show you in my next two lectures that the same 
substances that are found in animal foods can be found in 
vegetable foods. To-day I will try and prove that vegetables 
contain carbon. 

Here is a piece of bread. In bread and all vegetables there 
is a great deal of starch. You all know what starch is, 
because you must have seen your mothers use it very often to 



VEGETABLE EODV-WARMEKS. 



-89 



make your fathers' shirts and collars stiff. If you could look 
at some starch through a magnifying glass you would see that 
it was made up of little grains. I have a picture here of one 
of the starch grains that are in bread. ^ In this tumbler there is 
some starch which our cook got from this wheat.^ I will now 
pour some sulphuric acid on the starch, and you will soon see 

Fig. 32. 




a, Starch grain nncooked, 



Cooked and burst. 



that the starch will become black like the carbon that is in 
this bottle. 

I told you that no food we eat could be made into blood 
unless it would mix with water. Now, starch won't mix with 
water unless it nearly boils, and the water in our bodies is 
only warm — about 90° when people are well — while water does 
not boil till it reaches a temperature of 212°. Here is some 
starch.3 It won't mix, you see ; it falls to the bottom directly 
it is still. Sugar will mix perfectly or dissolve in water, as I 
will prove to you.'' I will put this lump of sugar into this 
water. In a minute or two you would not be able to tell, 
unless you tasted the water, that there was any sugar in it. 
Fortunately the saliva, or spittle, in our mouths can also 



' I showed a single cell. 

*> I showed some starch in water. 



' I showed the wheat in a tumbler. 
* I put some lumpis of sug.ar in water. 



.-)0 DIGESTION' AND CAKUONACEOL'S FOODS. 

change starch into sugar, which, I have jnst shown you, will 
mix with water. 

Have you not often found a very sweet taste in your 
mouth while you were chewing some bread ? Tou will now 
know the reason, because the saliva, or spittle, that is in 
your mouth changes the starch which is in the bread into 
sugar. Try a mouthful of bread this evening — don't eat any 
butter with it — and you will find that what I have told you 
is true. 

The gastric juice that is in the stomach, and which I shall 
presently tell you more about, does not digest starch or oily 
substances. It digests the animal food we eat. When bread 
or any vegetable gets into the stomach, it will be churned, 
and gently moved about, until it is broken into little pieces, 
and the gastric juice will turn it into that substance called 
chyme. Only when the food is broken into very small pieces 
will it be allowed to pass through the little door on the right 
side, which leads into the intestine. 

There is, as I said in my last lecture, an organ called the 
sweetbread, or pancreas. It lies here, behind the stomach. 
A great quantity of juice is made daily in this organ. This 
juice is carried, as already stated, by a tube which opens with 
the bile-duct into the duodenum. It is something like the 
spittle, or saliva, that is in the mouth, because it turns starch 
into sugar and helps to digest the vegetable food when it gets 
into the bowels. A great deal of the same kind of juice runs 
out of the glands of the intestines, so that the vegetable food 
continues to be digested the whole way as it passes through 
the bowels. The bowels of a man are about six times as long 
as his body. It seems scarcely possible that so long a pipe 
could take up so small a space as it does. Look at this 
picture.^ Remember, the bowels are only one long pipe. 
Ail our organs are packed in the same beautiful way, so that 
not the smallest space is wasted. 

Animals that eat only flesh, like the lion, have a very 

small stomach and very short intestines, or bowels : the lion's 

bowels are only three times the length of its body. A sheep 

has bowels twenty-eight times as long as its body ; a horse, 

' Marshall's diagram. See p. 83. 



Ab^TMAL AND VEGETABLE FOODS. 91 

twenty times as long as its body. These animals only eat 
vegetables. 

The reason of this is that a greater quantity of vegetable 
food is required to nourish the body. For instance, here is 
a pound of beef and a pound of bread, A hungry man could 
eat two pounds of bread. Two pounds of bread -would make 
a very large quantity when digested. A pound of beef would 
go into a very small space. 

Infants have only an imperfectly-formed saliva until they 
begin to cut some teeth. Very little juice comes out of the 
sweetbread or bowels of an infant. Let us see what will 
happen if a nurse gives an infant bread, or any vegetable 
food. As there are no teeth in the mouth to chop it up, and 
no very active saliva to turn the starch into suirar, the 
stomach must churn the bread about for an immense time 
in order to break it into small pieces, so that the little door 
on the right side of the stomach will open to let it pass 
through. When it reaches the bowels there will not be juice 
to digest it. All these organs will have worked in vain, be- 
cause the bread, or the starch which is in all vegetables, will 
not have been changed or digested by them. The poor little 
creature will have suffered agony for nothing, as no blood 
will have been made to nourish its little frame. 

Not long since I saw a child about a year old lying in a 
cot. Its face looked like that of a little withered old man, 
and its painful expression haunted me for a long time. I 
said to the grandfather, ' That poor little thing never gets any 
milk.' ' No; it doesn't like milk; it scarcely cats anything. 
This morning it had a good breakfast, because it fancied a bit 
of bacon, and took a good sup of raspberry tea.' It is true 
that if infants do not have milk they do not like it as they 
grow older, which is a very sad thing. 

Mothers often say that they give their babies just what 
they take themselves. ' May-be soms bread-and-butter or a 
potato.' "When an infant is only two hours old many nurses 
even in this day will put a mouthful of butter and sugar 
into its mouth. Some years ago at St. George's Workhouse, 
London, it was said that every infant died before it had been 
in the house a year. All the children were taken care of by 



92 DIGESTION AND CARBONACEOUS FOODS. 

an old pauper woman. They were fed on bread — worklioiisft 
bread — soaked in water just coloured with milk The 
children were placed in a row ; then the old woman used to 
go along the row, and put into each child's mouth a spoonful 
of this soaked bread. In a very short time they all died. 
Indeed, they went into the ' house ' to die. 

Dr. Bednar, who lives in Vienna, was the surgeon to a 
foundling hospital some years ago, where poor little charity 
children are taken in. Dr. Bednar examined the dead bodies 
of fifteen of these poor little infants. He found that they had 
all been ' pined,' or starved, to death. There was scarcely 
any fat or flesh to cover their bones. The oxygen had burnt 
it all up. All he found was a great deal of starch lying 
along the bowels, which of course had not been digested. 
They too had been fed on bread-and- water. 

This is the way babies are tortnred and starved to death 
when mothers put their children out to nurse. The women, 
or baby-farmers, who earn a small sum of money for taking 
care of these children, cannot afford to buy milk, which is 
very dear, so they give them a great deal of bread-and- water. 
How dreadful it is to think that while these poor little 
creatures are suffering and dying by inches, or living to grow 
np miserable cripples who must work hard for their bread, 
their mothers are feeding rich women's children, and making 
them fat and happy. I do not consider that a poor ignorant 
mother who forsakes her child for money is half so cruel 
as the rich educated mother who, for the sake of ease and 
pleasure, refuses to feed and cherish her little one. Until 
mothers will be really mothers to their own infants, and 
give up the fashionable and unnatural practice of engaging 
wet nurses, a country, though it may be called civilised, will 
never produce a moral and healthy people. It is stated 
that the more civilised a country becomes, the more infants 
die every year. In England about half the children born die 
before they reach five years. Milk, and only milk, is the food 
for children for the first six or nine months. If there is no 
mother's milk, an infant, with care, may be brought up very 
well on cow's milk, not skimmed milk. After eight or nine 
months the milk may be thickened with a little baked floui 



INFANT DIGESTION. 93 

(not corn-flour). Bake the flour in a cloth until it is hard, 
not burnt, and then scrape off" as much as is required to 
thicbsn the milk. A great deal of milk should be given 
to every child until it is seven years old, mixed with fl.our, 
rice, tapioca, semolina, &c. Some milk should be given at 
every meal. Swiss milk suits some infants, but it cannot be 
VI good as milk that has come fresh from a cow or an ass. 

Tilings provided for the Lecture. 

A picture of a starch cell. 

Some starch got from wheat and the wheat from which it 

was taken. 
Sugar and water. 

Marshall's diagram of the viscera, No. 3. 
A piece of beef and a piece of bread. 
Experiment to turn the starch into carbon. 

Questions for the Twelfth Lecture. 

1. Write down the names of some of the animals which hare all the 

organs a human being has, and which eat nothing but vegetables. 

2. There is a great deal of starch in bread and all vegetables. Into 

what does the spittle that is in the mouth change the starch ? 

3. Are vegetables changed, or digested, in the stomach ? 

4. Why are the bowels of a sheep twenty-eight times longer than its 

body, and a lion's only three times longer than its body? 

5. Why is it impossible for a baby to change bread or any vegetable 

food into good chyle and blood until it has cut some teeth? 



LECTURE XIII. 
CARBONACEOUS AND NITROGENOUS FOODS. 

I COULD not tell you in my last lecture all I wished to say 
& out carbonaceous foods, which I called ' body- warmers.' 
'V ou had better write down the long new name, as you will 
find it is the name generally used in books. The reason they 
are called carbonaceous foods is because they all contain a 
great deal of carbon. Sugar and treacle contain a great deal 
of carbon. This I will prove to you by two little experiments. 
Here are two tumblers ; one contains treacle, the other sugar. 
L will pour some sulphuric acid into both the tumblers. You 



94 CARBONACEOUS AND NITROGENOUS FOODS. 

mnst r.otico that the sugar and treacle are quite cold before 
1 put ill the acid. A little boy and girl had better come to 
me and feel how cold the tumblers are. I v.-ill j)our some of 
this acid into both the tumblers. You see both the treacle 
and the sugar have become as black as a piece of charcoal or 
this carbon 1 have in this bottle, and a verv great amount cf 
heat is made. 

Sugar and treacle contain three things — oxygen, hydro- 
gen, and carbon. All this great heat which you see is made 
because the sulphuric acid has joined chtmicoAhj with the 
oxygen and hydrogen that are in the sugar and treacle. 
Sulphuric acid does not like carbon, so the carbon is left all 
alone in the tumbler. 

Heat, you must remember, is always made when two 
things join chemically together. Sugar and water do not 
join chemically. The sugar is only melted in the water ; it 
does not join with either the oxygen or hydrogen that the 
water is made of. 

The reason why I am so anxious to make you understand 
that sugar and treacle are ' body- warmers ' is because these 
two kinds of food are very good for children. They ought 
to have plenty of them at their meais, if they like them. 
Little children have to grow tall as well as strong ; this they 
cannot do unless they have plenty of fat to cover their bones. 
It often happens that children do not like the fat that comes 
from an animal, such as mutton and beef fat ; but they nearly 
always like sugar and treacle. These two things turn into 
fat when they are digested in the body. They can eat them 
instead of animal fat. I do not believe that children would 
all have so great a longing for sweet things unless sweet 
things were good for them. 

It has been generally thought that sugar is not wholesome, 
and that it injures the teeth. To prove that this is a mistake 
we have only to go to the West Indies, where the sugar-cane 
grows, and see how healthy and fat the little black children 
are. It is not possible to see children w^ho have whiter or 
stronger teeth than they have. Fortunately sugar is now very 
cheap in England, as the tax has just been taken off It is, 



FLESH-FOEMEES. 95 

uo donbt, a very bad thing to let children eat a great many 
bought sweets, or goodies, because they are very often not 
made of good sugar, and are coloured by poisonous matter. 
These goodies are generally eaten between meals, and spoil 
the appetite Eating between meals is a very bad habit for 
persons of all ages. I have only one thing more to tell you 
about carbonaceous food. It is that all body- warmers, both 
animal and vegetable — namely, starch, fat, sugar, treacle- 
are made of only three things : carbon, oxygen, and 
hydrogen. 

You are now going to hear about the foods which make 
our flesh and forty organs. A list of them is written down on 
that sheet. I will read them over to you.* 

Flesh-formers. 

Animal. Vegetable. 

Meat. Game. Flour. Eice. 

Fish. Eggs. Oatmeal. Peas. 

Poultry. Cheese. i Barley, Eye. Lent Is. 

All these foods contain four things - oxygen, hydrogen, 
carbon, and nitrogen. 

Nitrogen is a gas I have never told you about before, 
because all the foods called ' body- warmers,' that make fat, 
Lave none of this gas. There is a great deal of it, however, 
in the air. The air is chiefly made up of nitrogen mixed with 
oxygen, of which you have already heard so much. All foods 
that make flesh must have nitrogen, and are therefore called 
' nitrogenous foods.' ^ All animal and vegetable flesh-formers 
contain a substance called albumen. This is a most important 
substance, as it is with the help of albumen that all our nerves, 
as well as our flesh or muscles, are made. 

I will first show you some animal albumen : the ^yhite of 
an e^g is albumen ; an egg is auimal food. I have broken an 
Ggg and put it unboiled into this glass bottle, so that you may 
all be able to see, when I hold it up, that it contains a white 

• I showed a table of flesh-formers. 
2 I wrote this on the blackboard. 



96 CARBONACEOUS AND NITflOGENOUS FOODS. 

and a yellow part. The white part is a sticky, glnej substance. 
I Avill stick these two pieces of paper together with this white 
of eg^. Here is another bottle, in which there is some 
vegetable albumen. It has come from the same flour you saw 
at the last lecture, out of which our cook got the starch. It 
is also very sticky. I will stick these two pieces of paper 
together with it. The albumen that is got out of vegetables 
is called by another name, though it is the same substance — 
viz., gluten — from its sticky nature. 

When a person cuts his flesh, the variety of albumen, called 
fibrin, that is in the blood comes out of the wound, makes a 
clot of blood, and fastens its sides together. If there was no 
fibrin in the blood, the cut or wound would never stop bleed- 
ing. I will tell you more about albumen and fibrin in my 
next lecture. 

So far I have only described the way in which solid foods 
are digested, because liquid foods — such as wine, and spirits, 
and water — are not digested in the stomach or bowels ; they 
all only pass through the stomach to the liver. The liver is 
the largest organ of the body. It weighs from fifty to sixty 
ounces. When you drink any liquid, it goes down the gullet 
and into the stomach. It then runs through the coats of the 
stomach into little pipes, which carry it to a big vein which 
opens into the liver. All the blood that goes to the liver is 
dirty blood, and it is out of this dirty blood that the liver 
ilaakes a great many things, the most important of which are 
bile and sugar. Sugar is one of the forty things that the 
blood, to be healthy, must contain, and the liver makes the 
greater part of the sugar the blood requires. 

In the liver the liquids get taken into the blood, and the 
blood is poured into the great vein, called the lower vena cava, 
which carries all the dirty blood to the heart. Thus the 
liquids which we drink reach the heart very quickly. This is 
the reason why a cup of wine immediately revives a person 
whose heart is weak. Solid food, such as meat and vegetables, 
generally take about three hours to digest. 

I dare say you often hear your parents or friends say that 
they feel bilious. Biliousness is often caused by taking too 
much fat or carbonaceous food. Fat is not, as you know, 



THE LIVER. 97 

digested in the stomach ; it is digested in the intestine 
called the duodenum. If there is not bile enough there 
to change the fat into a soapj substance, the fat remains in 
tlio liver. 

There is a most expensive dish sold in Germany called 
pate de foie gras, the English of which ij ' patty of fat liver.' 
I will tell you how it is made. A live goose is fastened 
doiivn to a board, and put very near a fire or stove. It is fed 
on cily food, and it is allowed no fresh air or exercise. After 
a time its liver grows big and fat and diseased. Then the 
poor goose is killed, and the liver is made into a pie, or potted. 
A small pot is sold for three or four shillings, and is con- 
sidered a great treat. I am very glad to say that this dish, 
svhich is so cruelly procured, is most indigestible stuff. 

Doctors say that plenty of fresh air and exercise is the 
best way to prevent biliousness. Good water helps the liver 
to make bile. Footmen — gentlemen's servants who live in 
grand houses, sit a great deal in warm rooms, eat rich, fat 
food, drink beer instead of water, and do very little work 
each as strong men ought to do — suffer very much from Liver 
complaints. 

There is a dreadful complaint called a nutmeg liver The 
liver all shrinks up and becomes like a nutmeg. This is the 
kind of liver a man has who drinks spirits ; this is called a 
drunkard's liver.' I will tell you in the next lecture the bad 
effect that spirits have upon the liver. 

Tldngs provided for the Lecture. 
Sugar. 
Treacle. 

A bottle of carbon. 
Some sulphuric acid. 
A raw egQ in a large clear glass bottle. 
Some pieces of paper to stick together. 
Some gluten in a bottle. 
Two experiments, turning sugar and treacle into carbon. 

Questions for the Thirteenth Lecture. 
1. Why are all kinds of oil, fat, sugar, treacle, and starch called 'car- 
bonaceous foods,' or ' bodv-warmers? ' 



I showed a picture of a nutmeg liver. 
H 



98 CARBONACEOUS AND NITROGENOUS FOODS. 

2. "Why is it good to give children sugar or treacle at their meals if 

they like these foods? 

3. "What is the name of the gas that must be in all foods called ' flesh- 

formers,' which make our forty organs and strengthen our muscles 
and nerves ? 

4. "When we drink anything, through what organ must that drink pass? 

5. Why do drunkards and footmen suffer very much from liver com- 

plaints ? 



LECTURE Xiy. 



NITROGENOUS AND LIQUID FOODS, AND THE HARM 
SPIRITS DO TO OUR ORGANS. 

My lecture to-day will again be about liquid foods. I had better 
mention that I am not a pledged teetotaller. I do not take 
wine or any stimulants, because I think it is not right to do 
50, as I am strong and well. I shall now try to explain some 
of the harm that spirits do to our organs, and to that substance 
wliich feeds our nerves called 'albumen.' Great heat also 
injures albumen. For instance, here is an egg that has been 
cooked in boiling water. You see the white part, which is 
albumen, has become very hard. When it is in this state it 
will take more than three hours before it can be digested. 
This other egg has not been cooked in boiling water ; the 
albumen, you see, is soft and creamy, very different from that 
bard albumen. It will digest in two hours, and will strengthen 
the nerves much better than the albumen would do which is 
in that hard-boiled egg. 

There is something written down on the blackboard about 
albumen, which you must copy. It is as follows : — 'Albumen 
becomes hard and indigestible when it is cooked in water that 
is at 212°, which is boiling-point.' At the end of the lecture 
I will send this thermometer round, for you to examine it and 
see that 212° is the boiling-point. 

I am now going to tell you abont the injury spirits do to 
our diff'erent organs. Drunkaids sufif'r very much from 
stomach as well as from liver complaints, because all the 
liquids that we take have to pass through the stomach before 
they get to the liver. 



BAD KFFECTS OF SPIEITS. 99 

YoTL will perhaps wonder bow it is that doctors have been 
able to find out how food is digested in the stomach, and 
how they know the number of hours different foods take to 
digest. They gained a great deal of this information by an 
accident that happened in America to a Canadian, called 
Alexis St. Martin, about forty years ago. He was shot by a 
buck shot ; the shot went through his stomach, and left a 
hole so large tliat Dr. Beaumont, the celebrated physician 
who attended him, could see all that went on in his stomach 
for several years. The accident happened on June 6, 1832. 
Alexis St. Martin would not allow the opening to be closed, 
as it did not affect his health. He enjoyed excellent health, 
and his digestion Avent on as regularly as if no oj)ening had 
ever been made. He remained as a domestic servant with 
Dr. Beaum-ont for some years. Directly he took brandy, or 
any kind of spirit entered the stomach, the beautiful pink 
membrane lining the stomach, which I have described 
to you, became very red. When spirits had been taken 
for a few days sore boils appeared. The gastric juice seemed 
dried up, so that the meat could not be digested. The 
albumen, or gluten, became hardened, just as if it had 
been cooked in boiling water. Directly St. Martin gave 
up spirits the boils went away, the proper quantity of gastric 
juice came out of the stomach, and his digestion was all 
riorht aa:ain. 

I will now tell you all I know about the harm spirits do to 
different parts of the body. I told 3'on it injured the liver and 
made its substance very hard ; and spirits also cause a fatty 
change in the muscles, so that the healthy substance of 
the liver and the fibres of the muscles gradually become 
changed into a kind of fatty substance, and are thus rendered 
useless. When spirits enter those wonderful little hair-like 
tubes called capillaries, it is said that after a time their 
delicate coats are thickened. Of course this prevents the good 
blood from passing freely through them into the surrounding 
parts to feed the flesh and different organs ; and the old 
materials from entering the capillaries, to be carried by the 
veins to the right side of the heart, that holds the dirty blood. 
For a short time, it is true, the blood is made hotter by 

H 2 



100 NITKOGENOCS AND LIQCID FOODS. 

spirits. This heat makes the heart woik more quickly and 
send blood to every part of the body more rapidly. But 
this heat soon dies away, and the blood becomes colder than 
it was before the spirits were taken. We lea in this fact from 
Arctic travellers — men who have spent many months in 
countries where there is nothing but ice and snow. They 
dare not take spii-its there, because it makes them colder after 
a time. They find they can only keep up the heat in their 
bodies by eating foods that contain a great deal of carbon, 
such as oil or fat, which are very properly called body- 
warmers. There is a complaint called fatty degeneration of 
the heart. In this disease the muscles of the heart turn into 
fat, and therefore cannot do their work. 

The albumen and fibrin are also hardened by spirits. I 
dare say you have seen men who drive brewers' carts, loaded 
wdth barrels of beer, which they leave at people's houses. 
These men are called draymen. They are generally very fine, 
fat-looking men. In Loudon, as a rule, they drink an im- 
mense quantity of beer, which contains spirit. Though 
they look so healthy they are really not so, because if they 
cut their flesh very slightly the wound will not heal, and they 
often die in a few hours after the accident. A woman who 
came to hear my lectures told me that a friend of hers had 
married a drayman. He came home one evening with a small 
cut on his arm. The place began to swell, and he was dead 
by the morning. 

You see I have some blood in this bottle that came 
from an ox ; it is the same as human blood. The blood 
has separated into two substances ; the thick part is called a 
clot, and the thin white part is called serum. The clot, 
wliich is the thick part, contains albumen, fibrin, and red 
corpuscles, those little bodies that carry the oxygen gas. 
After a bad fever — typhus, for instance— the blood becomes 
poor ; it w^ll not form into a clot. When the blood is in this 
state, should the nose or any part bleed, the bleeding cannot 
be stopped. 

This hard substance in this bottle is a clot of blood that 
has been preserved in spirits. It has become almost as tough 



MILK AXD WATER. 101 

and hard as a piece of leather. The doctor at the School of 
Medicine kindly lent it me. 

Persons who drink hard often suffer from delirium 
tremens, which is the most awfal complaint that can befall a 
human being. The nerves of those who have this disease 
are so weakened that thev tremble like a leaf at the slightest 
sound. The mind becomes full of dreadful thoughts. They 
see, or fancy they see, horrid sights. Sleep brings no rest 
or comfort, only fearful dreams, from which they awake 
in sach an agony of fear, that though they are afraid to liv^e, 
they are still more afraid to die. Hunger they never know, 
only a constant thirst for the poisonous drink that has 
reduced thera to a state much lower than that of the beasts 
in the field. 

If spirits have such a fearful effect on the nerves of a 
strong man, what must their effect be on the delicate nerves 
of an infant ? I am grieved to say that it is a common 
practice of mothers to give their babies gin. This spirit 
causes a constant thirst. A mother could not, therefore, 
choose a more cruel drink, because an infant cannot say it 
js thirsty. It is believed that gin stops the growth of all the 
organs. I dare say you have seen at the Leeds fairs, or feasts, 
little boys and girls dancing in front of shows, or tumbling 
Kud doing, all kinds of wonderful feats in a ring. Their 
iiasters, it is said, give them gin to keep them small and 
3-oung-looking. They also keep them up late at night, which 
is another sure way of making children small, delicate, and 
unhealthy. 

I have told you a great deal about the drinks which man 
1-as invented for himself, such as wine and spirits. I will 
I'.ow tell you something about the two drinks that God has 
provided for man : they are milk and water. Water is the 
most important of all foods. A man might be kept alive 
for weeks if he took plenty of water and no food, but he 
\^'ould die in a few days if all water were withheld from 
L\m. 

A cup of cold water is the most cooling and refreshing 
dfink you can L^ive a person who is suffering from the thirst 



102 ■ NITROGENOUS AND LIQUID FOODS. 

of fever ; the blood then becomes too thick, because the 
great heat has dried up the water the blood ought to contain. 
The water we drink soon grows as hot as the blood, and turns 
into vapour, which opens the pores of the skin and carries 
off the heat in perspiration. Spirits dry the skin and shut up 
the pores. Dr. Edward Smith says that a man while he is 
drunk' does not perspire. No wonder he becomes so mad and 
delirious. I hope you will explain how water cools the blood 
to anyone who thinks it is a bad thing to give water in case 
of fever. 

I have been often told that parents do not think it safe 
to give their children as much water as they want when they 
have a fever or are thirsty. It is always a safe drink ; even 
a baby would not be hurt by it. The blood will only con- 
tain a certain amount of water, however much you drink. It 
is dangerous to drink cold water after violent exercise ; but 
not at all dangerous to drink it during the exercise before the 
body has begun to cool. If you have been running very hard 
on a hot summer's day, and feel very thirsty, then you had 
better take a little water from time to time until your thirst 
is gone. "When people suffer from a continued thirst, tepid 
water lessens it better than cold water. A piece of ice in 
the mouth is a good thing. Snow, unless it is melted first, 
increases the thirst ; this is a very strange fact. 

Now I must say a few words for poor dumb animals, who, 
like little babies, cannot speak for themselves. I am afraid 
they suffer dreadfully from our cruelty and ignorance. It is 
considered by many people very bad to let a horse drink when 
it is thirsty, as they say that it should only be allowed to take 
water at certain times. All sensible masters and grooms 
place water in the stables, and let the horses drink when 
they feel inclined. A horse, donkey, dog and cat require 
a little water often, as they have smaller stomachs for theii 
size than we have. A donkey is very particular that the 
water he drinks should be clean and pure, because in the 
country he comes from he is accustomed to drink from clear 
running streams. Drinking-fountains, I am glad to say, are 
generally put up in all large towns, so that horses, if their 
masters will let them, can drink when they are thirsty. 



DRINK FOR ANIMALS. iO'S 

Every fountain ought to have a place put low down, so that 
sheep, dogs, cats, and other small animals may be able to 
satisfy their thirst. It; is a very cruel practice to put muzzles 
on dogs, that shut up their mouths and prevent them from 
drinking and from putting out their tongues. 

Dogs perspire chiefly through their tongues and mouths ; 
very little sweat comes out of the pores of their skins. You 
must all have noticed on a hot day that dogs let their tongues 
hang out. When they are running fast they only breathe 
freely when the mouth is open and the tongue out, as their 
nostrils are rather small. When muzzles are considered neces- 
sary, they should be made of wire, and large, so that the 
mouth can open. The best way to make a dog go mad is to 
strap up its mouth with the kind of muzzle generally used 
in England. 

Thinjs provided for the Lecture, 

fresh clot of an ox's blood. 

A clot that has been kept in spirits, from the School of Medicine. 

A bard-boiled pgg and a soft-boiled egg. 

Questime for the Fourteenth Lecture. 

1. What part of an egg is albumen ? 

2. Tell me all you cau remember about the harm spirits do to the fol- 

lowing organs: stomach, gastric juice, liver, capillaries, heart, 
muscles, nerves ; and why it is very cruel to give a baby any 
kind of spirits, particularly gin. 

3. Why is watf-r tlie most cooling of all drink";, and may be safelj 

given to children and dumb animals, particularly dogs and cits? 

4. Why is it dangerous and cruel to put a muzzle on a dog that wiL' 

prevent it from drinking and from opening ts mouth ? 



iC)4 MILK XSD MINERAL FOODS. 

LECTURE XV. 
MILK a:s'd misef.al foods. 

New milk is a bod v- warmer and a flesh-former, and contains 
everything the body requires. It is digested in two hours. 

The following things are contained in one pint of cow's 
milk and in one pint of mother's milk ; — 





Cow's Milk. 


^foiker's MUk. 


Water 


13 oz. 


14 oz. 


Flesh-former 


foz. .. 


less. 


Body-warmer 


li oz. 


more. 


Phosphate of lime, potash, 'I 
and other salts / 


ioz. . 


same. 



Before I sav anything about the wonderful properties of 
milk, I must tell you that our forty organs are like forty 
machines, which will get out of order unless they are used 
regularly. The gastric juice that comes out of the stomach, 
the pancreatic juice that comes out of the sweetbread, the 
intestinal juices — that is, the juices that come out of the skin 
lining the bowels — the bile, are all fluids by means of which 
solid foods are digested. 

If we do not eat solid food, these fluids will gradually 
become less and less, just as the so-called joint-oil slowly goes 
away from joints which are not used. If, on the other hand, 
we take too much liquid food, we shall giye the organs tliat 
digest liquid food too much work to do, and they will get 
out of order, and will soon be worn out. 

It is yery bad for grown-up people to take only liquid 
food ; you will wonder how it is possible that a baby can 
live on nothing but milk for the first year of its life, for milk 
appears to be a liquid food. 1 will explain how some of the 
milk we drink -always becomes a solid food in the stomach. 
Here is some gastric juice which was taken from the lining 
skin of a calf's stomach after it was killed. It is exactly the 
same kind of gastric juice as that which comes out of the 
stomach of a human being. T will put some into this tumbler. 
and you w^ll see at the end of my lecture that anorit half the 



MILK. 105 

milk Las been turned into a solid substance called ' curd,' and 
the other half into a liquid called ' whey.' The curd, or thick 
part, is the same substance as cheese. Farmers make cheese 
by putting some of this gastric juice, called 'rennet,' into 
milk. The curd is pressed by weights until it becomes a 
solid cheese, and the whey .runs out. Cheese is a niti-o- 
gcnous food and an animal flesh-former. If cheese is m^ide 
from new milk, it contains less water and more nourishment 
than beef and mutton. New milk is milk, you know, that 
has had none of the cream taken away from it. 

Some people make cheese of skimmed milk — that is, milk 
that has had all the cream taken from it. This is very poor 
cheese — so poor that dogs, when they see it, bark at it, pigs 
grunt at it, but neither the dog nor the pig will bite it. This 
kind of cheese is made in Suffolk and Wales. 

A mother's milk is new milk. If a baby gets its mother's 
milk, its rightful food, the curd that forms the solid food in 
its stomach will be of the richest. 

An infant's liver is very large when it is bom, but after- 
wards, as the child grows older, and takes more sohd food, it 
does not grow so fast as many other parts of the body. 
Nurses have a practice of bandaging a baby very tightly 
round its body. This squeezes up the liver. Several work- 
ing-women have told me that they have gone into a cottage 
where a baby was screaming, and found that the poor little 
creature had been bound up so tightly that the flesh was all 
in wrinkles. The crying ceased when the bandage was made 
loose. Here is a picture showing the organs that are thrown 
out of place when the body is bound tight in that way.^ A 
piece of flannel put once round and tied with strings is quite 
enough. 

I have proved to you that milk contains a solid nitro- 
genoTis food, which forms flesh, muscles, &c. I have still to 
prove to you that milk contains carbonaceous foods, or ' body- 
warmers,' that will form fat. The cream that stands at the 
top of milk is of an oily nature, and is therefore light and 
floats on the top.^ You know how butter is made : the cream 

' I showed Madame Bodichon's diagram. See p. 33. 
' I fhowei a glass of new milk. 



106 MILK AND MINERAL fOODS. 

is taken off and put into a round barrel, called a churn, and 
moved about until it is made into butter. Butter contains 
a great deal of carbon, and is therefore a body- warmer. 
If you were to feed a baby only on cream, it would soon pine 
to death. All its organs would waste away. When dogs 
have been fed on nothing but fat, they have died after a few 
weeks. If you were to feed a baby on skimmed milk it would 
also probably pine to death in time, because, though skimmed 
milk retains all the sugar of the milk, which is a body- 
warmer, that would not be sufficient, and the fat in its body 
would be burnt away by the oxygen that passes into the 
blood through the lungs. Some mothers and nurses think 
they are giving a baby the best and most nourishing food 
when they let it drink cream ; instead of nourishing the 
child, they are starving it to death. ISTothing but new milk 
will nourish it properly. 

We must all eat body-warmers and flesh-formers. One 
kind of food will not feed us. It is curious to think that a 
human being or a dumb animal may be pined to death 
though they are eating food all day long. The men who 
went to discover the great plains of South America were 
pined to death in this way. They could get plenty of food of 
one sort, but they died off one by one because they could not pro- 
cure both body- warmers and flesh-formers. You will now have 
learnt by my lectures that it is necessary that we should take 
both solid and liquid foods, and that we should also eat foods 
that contain nitrogen gas and a substance called carbon. 

There is still another kind of food which I have to descnbe, 
that we must have to purify our blood, called mineral food. 
I have written down on the blackboard some of the principal 
mineral substances blood ought to contain — iron, sodium, 
lime, potassium. Minerals include all solid bodies found in or 
on the earth that are neither animal nor vegetable. You 
will often read in books and hear people talk about the 
salts that are in the blood. These salts always contain a 
mineral and a gas. These two substances must be united 
chemically, not just mixed as sugar is mixed in water. 

I am going to tell you a great deal about salts, as there 
are several in the blood. To-day I shall only tell you about 



SALTS. 107 

one which is called potash. I have some in this bottle, which 
you see is a white substance. It is composed of a metal 
called potassium and oxygen gas. I will make a small 
quantity of this salt at the end of the lecture. At my next 
lecture I will make another salt, called soda. Tou all know, 
I am sure, the name of this salt, and must often have seen 
some at home. 

A hundred years ago there was a dreadful complaint 
called the scurvy, that killed nearly all our sailors who took 
long sea- voyages. In those days the voyages were very long, 
for they had only sailing-vessels, no steamers. It took six 
months to go to India (now it takes six weeks) by sea. The 
food these poor men had to eat and drink for nine months 
at a time consisted of salt meat, hard biscuits called sailor's 
biscuits, no bread, bad water, and plenty of spirits. They never 
touched fresh vegetables, such as potatoes. Now, in potatoes 
and all green vegetables there are salts of potash and lime, 
and several others, which the blood must contain to be pure. 

Before the Irish famine, which was caused by the failure 
of the potato crops, the Irish people used to live almost 
entirely on potatoes. During that time, as they ate plenty of 
potatoes, they did not know what it was to suffer from this 
dreadful complaint called the scurvy, but directly they had to 
eat salt meat without any vegetables they had this complaint 

Dr. Guy, a physician who, I am glad to say, is now living, 
has written a most interesting book,^ in which he gives the 
following description of the dreadful sufferings our sailors had 
to endure when they were so shamefully fed at sea 100 years 
ago : — ' Round blotches came under the skin, called " purples." 
The blood ran into the flesh and made the limbs painful and 
stiff. The blood-vessels were so weak that they broke with 
a touch. The gums swelled and became dark. The teeth 
grew loose and fell out of their sockets. The breath was bad, 
and blood poured from the nostrils and eyes. The poor suf- 
ferer became so weak that he fainted at the least exertion, 
and fell down dead in sight of his native land.' 

A ship under the charge of Captain Anson left England 
with a great many sailors. When Captain Anson returned 
' ' Public Health : a Popular Introduction to Sanitarv Science,' p. 142. 



108 MILK AND MINERAL FOOI'?!. 

from his voyage in nine months, he had lost 626 of his men. 
I hope you have all heard of Captain Cook, who was the first 
man to sail round the world, I am delighted to tell you he 
was a Yorkshire man. He lived at the same time as Captain 
Anson. His father was a labourer, and resided at Whitby. 
You see he was the son of a working-man. Captain Cook 
was not only very clever, but very kind-hearted and good. 
He could not bear to see men suffer : he therefore determined 
to find out how scurvy could be prevented or cured. He soon 
saw that where people had plenty of fresh vegetables they did 
not have scurvy. He could not take enough potatoes on 
board his ship to last a great many months, but he could take 
lemon juice, which happens to contain a great deal of potash. 
He also sent the sailors on shore whenever it was possible, so 
that they might eat any fruit or vegetables they could find. 
By this means he kept his sailors in good health. After a 
voyage of three years he returned to England, having only 
lost four of his men. I hope you will all some day read the 
life of this good man. There is a small Life sold for a penny, 
which you can get at "Wood's, the hor^kseller in Market Street, 
Leeds. 

I will now show the experiment by which the salt called 
potash is made. This salt is made of a metal called potassium 
and a gas called oxygen. I have some water in this tumbler. 
Water, you know, is made of two gases, oxygen and hydro- 
gen. I will take a small piece of potassium out of this 
bottle and put it into the water. The potassium is so fond of 
oxygen that it will join chemically with the oxygen that is in 
the water, and burst into a flame. You may always know 
when two or more substances have joined chemically, because 
heat is made and also a new substance is formed. When the 
oxygen gas and the metal potassium united, a great deal of 
heat was made — because you saw the flame. If we look at 
the bottom of the glass, we shall find that a new substance has 
been made — potash. Here it is. This white stuff is potash, 
the salt that is found in the greatest quantity in potatoes. 
There is also a great deal of it in all grreen vegetables, such as 
lettuce, cabbages, and in all kinds of fruit — oranges, &c. 
licmons contain the most potash, and that is the reason why 



SALTS. 109 

the lemon juice Captain Cook took in his vessel, and gave to 
his sailors, did them so much good. 

Thinrjs provided for the Lecture, 
Some gastric juico from a calf's stomach. 
Two tumblers of new milk. 
A small packet of soda. 
Some potassium. 
ALadame Bodichon's picture cf the organs of digestion displaced by 

lacing. 
Some water. 
Some potash in a bottle. 

Questions for the Fifteenth Lecture. 

1. Why would aninfjint, a grown-up person, or an} ai.imal be pined 

to death if they were fed on nothing but cream cr any of the 
carbonaceous foods called ' body-warmers,' and why would they 
also be pine4 to death if fed only on ' flesh-formers,' or nitro- 
genous food ? 

2. Why is it necessary that some of the food we eat daily shonld be 

solid food ? 

3. Why is it very wrong to bind an infant's body with anything that is 

in the least tight ? 

4. What dreadful complaint did our sailors suffer from about a hundred 

years ago, and who was the man who discovered how to cure it? 

5. Name some of the chief vegetables that contain the most potash. 



LECTURE XVI. 
MLSEEAL FOODS (continued). 
I PROMISED at my last lecture that to-daj I would make a salt 
called soda. I have a piece in my hand ; you see it is the 
same soda your mothers use on washing-days. There is a 
great deal of soda in soap ; that is the reason why washer- 
women use a great quantity when the clothes are very du'ty. 
Soda takes out the dirt directly ; but, as it also takes out the 
colour of clothes, it ought only to be used in washing coarse 
white materials, or materials that soda does not spoil, for it 
does not spoil all coloured things. 

Soda is composed of a metal called sodium and oxygen 
gas. I have some sodium in this bottle ; I will put a small 
piece of it into this tumbler of water. Directly it touches the 



110 MLRERAL FOODS. 

water, which yon know is partly made of oxygen gas, it will 
unite chemically with that oxygen, and there will be a great 
amount of heat given off. A new substance will, of course, be 
made by this union, and it will fall to the bottom of the 
tumbler. I am afraid there will be so small a quantity that 
it will be scarcely visible. Soda is, like potash, an alkali. I 
must now explain what an alkali is. I have some water in 
this glass which is very acid. I should like one or two of you 
to come and taste it. If the water is acid, it will make this 
piece of blue paper turn red, because all acids turn certain 
vegetable bine colours red. Now I will put .«3ome soda into 
this acid water, and you will find afterwards that no acid 
taste will remain, because the soda is an alkali, and takes 
away the acidity. Some salts are alkalies. 

When our food is being digested in the stomach it is all 
made very acid by the gastric juice. After this acid food 
passes a good distance down the intestine, it is said that it be- 
comes alkaline, partly owing to the pancreatic juice, and partly 
to its admixture with the bile, but chiefly owdng to the juices 
from the intestine itself. 

I will just mention a few salts whose names you know. 
Salt that we eat is a salt. It is made of a gas and a mineral. 
Sodium is the mineral, the same one that is in soda. The 
name of the gas you have never heard ; it is called chlorine 
gas. There are many different kinds of gases. I have only 
told you during my lectures about four gases — oxygen, hydro- 
gen, nitrogen, and carbonic acid gas. People cannot live 
unless they can have the salt called salt. In some countries 
persons used to be tortured to death by not being allowed to 
have any salt either in their food or to eat. 

The hard part of all our bones consists almost entirely of 
a salt called phosphate of lime. I have some of the phosphate 
of lime in this bottle. This soft bone I hold in my hand • is 
so soft because all the phosphate and carbonate of lime have 
been taken out of it ; all that is left of the blade-bone is only 
gelatine, the same stuff we make jelly of. Here is some gela- 
tine in this packet. Bread contains more of this salt — phos- 
phate of lime — than any other food. That is why boys and 
' I showed a blade-bone from the School of Medicine. 



SALTS. Ill 

girls who are growing ought to eat a great deal of bread. 
Farmers put all the old bones they can get on those fields in 
which they sow wheat. The heat of the sun separates the 
lime and phosphorus, which with oxygen make the salt called 
phosphate of lime, from the gelatine. The lime and phos- 
phorus then sink into the earth, and nourish the wheat while 
it is growing, and we eat these two substances again when 
the wheat is ground into flour. 

Tou must remember that heat makes things join together 
chemically, and that heat can also separate them. Great care 
should therefore be taken by the cook to prevent the heat 
being so great that it will injure the substances contained in 
food. I told you that vegetables and fruit contained a great 
quantity of potash. We can eat a great deal of fruit without 
cooking it, such as apples and oranges, and also a great many 
green vegetables which we make into salad, such as lettuce, 
mustard and cress, onions, &c. In France they eat a great 
quantity of salad all the year round. Water in which vege- 
tables have been boiled contains a great deal of saline matter. 
This water ought to be used for soups, and not thrown away. 

During the next few lectures I intend to tell you how food 
ought to be cooked. So you must remember all I have just 
been saying to you. Our blood requires a great many mine- 
rals as well as salts, such as iron and magnesium. One 
reason why people lose their colour, and grow very pale and 
white, is because they do not get enough iron. We get o 
great deal of mineral food in the water we drink. This water 
comes from rivers and springs, and as it runs along over and 
through the earth it dissolves the minerals that are in the soil, 
just as sugar dissolves in water. The clearest water often 
contains a great many substances, both good and bad, which 
we cannot see with the naked eye. Some iron has been dis- 
solved in this water, though it looks quite clear. 

I dare say some of you have been to Harrogate and 
tasted the Harrogate waters. There are iron and sulphur 
wells there. People who suffer from skin complaints go to 
Harrogate on purpose to drink these waters, to make their 
blood pure. Very likely if these invalids had understood 
what the blood requires, and had eaten the right kind of 



112 



MINERAL FOODS. 



foods, they would never have suffered from an unhealthy 
skin. 

It is just a hundred years since Dr. Priestley discovered 
oxygen gas. Before that time everybody thought that water 
was an element — that is to say, one thing only. They did 
not dream that it was made of two gases. They also thought 
the air we breathe was an element. 

Our bodies, I have before told you., contain an immense 
quantity of water. You know, if a man weighs 154 pounds, 
111 pounds of that weight will be water. "Wliere do we get 
this great quantity of water from ? No wise person in health 
drinks more than from two to three pints daily of any liquid. 
A pint is equal to a pound and a quarter. I wiU read over 
this food table, and then you will know where we get nearly 
all this great quantity of water from. 

The following list will show how much water there is in 
animal and vegetable foods. 

(Sixteen ounces make one pound.) 









CtoXTADfS OF 


i 


\h 


OXE 








1 


Pound of 








. i 


B^ 


Body- warm ere 


Flesh-fonnere 


Water 


Ashes 


3J 


Bre.u) . . . 


atont 10 oz. 


about 2 oz. 


about 4 o2. 


about j^ oz. 


4 


Meat . 


. I 


,. 3 .. 


„ 3 ,. 


„ 10 ,. 


.. i ,. 1 


3i 


Cheese . 






, 4^„ 


„ 5i., 


„ 5i,. 


„ i „ i 


2 


Milk. . 








„ I.. 


„ 13i„ 


M 2 <. 


3 


Egop . . 






', u" 


.. 2i., 


„ 12 „ 






Butter . 


; 


\ 


14 


None 


,, 2 „ 






Suet . . 






14 ,'. 


A trace 


,. 2 „ 






Drippixg 




1 


14 ',', 


None 


„ 2 „ 






Oils . . 


■ 


'. 


14 ). 




» 2 „ 






Laku 




^ 


. 14 >» 




„ 2 „ 






Loaf Sugar . 




J 14 „ 




„ 2 „ 






Arrowroot . 


/ 


' ^^ " 




„ 2 „ 


i 



DRY FOODS. 
(Grains, Sethis, &c.) 
Peas. 



Semolina. 
Macaroni. 



Wheat. 

Oats. Rice 

Iti one pound of these there are about H oz. of water. 

12 „ ,. fat. 
2 to 3 ,, ,. flesh- formers. 

\ ,, „ salts and minerals 



WATER IN FOOD 112 

WET FOODS. 

(All Green Vegetables aud Fruits.) 

Potatoes. Apples. 

Turnips. Oranges. 

Carrots. Gooseberries. 

Onions. Currants, &c. 

Lettuce and all kinds of salad. Lemons. 

Khubarb. Pumpkin. 

Chiefly given to feed Dumb Animals. 

Linseed. Grass. 

Rape seed Clover. 

Lentils. 

In on© pound of these ther'i are about 

12 oz. to 14 oz. of water. 

2 „ fat. 

1 „ flesh-formers. 

i „ salts and minerals. 

You see that every kind of food contains a great deal oi 
water. The reason we suffer from thirst is because our blood 
does not contain enough water, or else contains too much 
saJine matter ; we must either have eaten very dry salt foodr 
or have perspired a great deal. In hot countries people pel 
spire much more than they do in cold countries. They must 
either drink a great deal of liquid or they must eat food that 
contains a great deal of water. Taking a bath relieves thirst. 
There is a great deal more water in moist vegetable foods, 
Ruch as potatoes, fruit, &c., than there is in animal food. 
People eat a great deal more vegetable food in hot countries 
than they do of butcher's meat and other animal food. 
Pumpkins contain a great deal of water, as much as fifteen 
ounces in every pound. They grow in very hot countries in 
the middle of sandy deserts where water is seldom to be 
found. A gentleman who had both seen and tasted a 
pumpkin told me that it looks like a big melon, and that 
when you open it nothing but clear water runs out. How 
thankful travellers must be to find this fruit growing in the 

I 



Il4 MINERAL FOODS. 

middle of a desert. Grains and seeds, yon see, have very 
little water compared with vegetables and frnit. 

I have in this bottle the quantity of water — 1^ onnce — • 
that can be taken out of a pound of wheat. In this bottle I 
have the quantity of water — 14 ounces — that can be taken 
out of a pound of potatoes. No wonder the poor Irish people 
were not thirsty when they lived chiefly on potatoes. When 
the potato crops failed they were obliged to eat bread, and 
they were also obliged to drink tea and coffee. They never 
took tea and coffee before the famine. 

Bread, as I have said before, is a very dry food ; we are 
always obliged to take some liquid with it. I have no doubt 
that dumb animals suffer dreadfully, simply because those who 
have the care of them do not understand about food. They 
ought to live out of doors, where they can eat fresh green 
grass, &c., which contains so much water ; and as they are 
out in the fields at night as well as day, they drink the dew 
that falls on the grass, and when it rains they get a great deal 
of moisture in that way. Animals that live on green vege- 
tables may not require as much liquid as those animals do 
which live on dry foods, such as barley and oats. It is, how- 
ever, wrong to suppose that they do not require any water 
Shee|i, cows, and other animals are often taken long journeys 
by land and water, and are driven along dusty roads, without 
having any water given to ^hem. Two persons I know have 
seen sheep trying to drink the most filthy water as they were 
driven along. The cattle-drivers only laugh when you say 
they are thirsty. 

A gentleman who went to buy a young rabbit from a 
rabbit dealer, a few weeks since, told me that he found the 
man out. His wife showed him a fine rabbit which had a 
large brood of young ones ; the rabbit was feeding them en- 
tirely with her own milk. The poor animal was eating some 
kind of dry food — barley, 1 think. She was not allowed any 
water. My friend begged hard that the woman would give it 
something to drink. ' I dare not, sir ; my husband would be 
so angry ; he says they must not have any water.' A gentle- 
man once fed a rabbit entirely on barley. In three weeks it 
leas dead A great many animals, such as parrots, are treated 



IMPORTANCE OF WATER FOR ANIMALS. 115 

very cmellj in some zoological gardens, because tlie keepers 
have these ignorant ideas. 

No wonder there is so mnch diseased butcher's meat in 
the markets, when we know the cruelty that is practised 
towards animals, and it will ever be so until those who have 
the management of them are less ignorant. I am thankful to 
think we can eat animal and vegetable food, which will make 
us strong and healthy, without being obliged to eat much 
butcher's meat. 

The late Sir William Fairbairn, of Manchester, paid a 
visit to several foreign countries on purpose to learn how the 
working-people in those countries were fed. Ho found that 
the strongest men were the Turkish rowers. They eat bread, 
fruit, very little meat, and drink no wine or spirits. It is not 
wholesome to eat a great deal of meat, and I will now explain 
to you why. 

The stomach must be nearly filled, so that the bag is 
stretched out, or the food cannot be properly digested. On 
the other hand, if the stomach is quite full, the food has no 
room to be moved from side to side ; therefore it will remain 
undigested, because it cannot be broken up into small pieces. 
Half a pound of butcher's meat is considered enough for a 
man at one meal. Even a pound would not fill his stomach ; 
he can therefore easily eat more than is good for him. People 
feel a craving until the stomach is sufficiently filled. In some 
countries earth and clay are mixed with the food to give it 
greater bulk, so that it may satisfy the stomach. Horses fed 
with oats, or any kind of grain which takes up little room, 
have straw, shavings, sawdust, mixed up with it for the same 
reason. People who eat a great quantity of meat daily often 
suffer from most, dreadful complaints — the stone, and gout. 
If they get a slight cut or wound it often will not heal 
quickly. The Americans in the United States, rich and poor, 
eat as much butcher's meat as they like. No English people 
suffer so much from stomach complaints, nor are more un- 
healthy. It is said that the working people in Ireland, who 
live chiefly on vegetables (the potato), are not afflicted with 
gout. The French rarely suffer from disorder of the stomach. 
They eat at least a third less meat than we do, twice as much 

1 2 



11 G MINERAL FOODS. 

bread, and a great quantity of vegetables and fruit. Oui 
blood, to be healthy, must contain at least forty different sub- 
stances. These forty different things can ouly get into the 
blood through the food we eat. The French understand what 
foods contain, and they are determined that they will cook 
their food in such a manner that all these substances shall be 
carefully preserved. All flavouring matters are spoiled by 
too much heat. Beef does not taste like mutton. Vegetable 
foods, also, have each their different flavour : an onion does 
not taste like an apple. This flavouring matter is much 
weakened by heat. Albumen I showed you was also spoiled 
by being put into boiling water. The French never boil any 
good wholesome food. The first lesson a young French girl 
learns is to cook gently. The food in France is cooked for a 
much longer time than ours ; in fact, it is always thoroughly 
tender and digestible. We are in such a hurry and fuss ; and 
think that if the saucepan is only put on a good fire, and the 
contents boil, all is right. I will try and show you, during 
my lectures on cookery, that boiling is a most extravagant 
process, that we waste coal, burn our saucepans and faces, and 
injure our tempers, all for very little purpose, because the 
food upon which we have spent our time is spoilt. We are 
said to be among the worst of cooks. More butcher's meat is 
eaten in England than in any other country. The French are 
the best cooks in the world. Though they are less wealthy 
than we are, their poor people are better nourished than ours. 
I am not a vegetarian, but I believe in living as the French 
do, on a great variety of the most nourishing, simple, and 
well- cooked foods, and that butcher's meat is not the only food 
by which we can make flesh and strengthen our nerves and 
muscles. Fortunately, the most nourishipg foods are the 
cheapest, as I intend to show in the next lecture. 

Things provided for the Lecture. 

Three bottles containing the quantities of water taken respectivelj 

from a pound of potatoes, a pound of rice, and a poiind of wheat. 
One pound of potatoes. 

„ „ rice. 
A softpnfld blade-bone from the School of Medicine. 



IMPORTANCE OF DIFFERENT KINP? OF FOOD. 117 

A bottle containing phosphate of lime. 

„ „ ,, sodium. 

„ „ „ iron-water, to show how minerals may be dissolved 

and not seen by the naked eye. 
Someljlue litmus-paper. 

Experiment. — Made some soda and prt-ved it was an alkali. 

Questions for the Sixteenth Lecture. 

1. K a human being or a dumb animal weighs 15-i lbs., Ill lbs. 

of that weight will be water. How does all that water enter 
the body ? 

2. Wliy is it cruel not to give water to sheep, rabbits, and all other 

animals en long journeys, or when they are not finding their own 
food in fields ? 

3. "Why is it good to eat fruit and uncooked regptables, such as 

oranges, mustard and cress, and all kinds of salad ? 



LECTURE XVIL 

FOODS {continued). 



After all I have told you about foods, I hope jou will 
clearly nnderstand that it is impossible for us to be healthy 
and strong unless we eat every day three entirely different 
kinds of food — nitrogenous, carbonaceous, and mineral foods. 
We will now read over some parts of the food table that I did 
not read over last time. I then only pointed out to you that 
there is, of course, much more water m wet foods, such as 
green vegetables and fruits, than there is in dry foods, such as 
grain — wheat and barley. 

We will now compare the principal vegetable flesh-formers 
with the principal animal flesh-formers, to see if we could live 
on animal and vegetable nitrogenous foods, that would make 
our neives and muscles strong, without eating much butcher's 
meat, as butcher's meat is very dear. 



118 FOODS. 



Nitrogenous Foods called Flesh-formers. 

Vegetable. 



Animal 
Meat. 
Fish. 
Poultry. 
Game. 
Eggs. 
Cheese. 



Flour. 

Oatmeal. 

Rice (very weak). 

Peas. 

Barley, &c. n 

Eevalenta Arabica (ground 

lentils). 
Macaroni. 
Semolina. 

Tlie two principal vegetable flesli- formers eaten in Eng- 
land and Scotland are bread and oatmeal. 

Time to Digest. 
Hours. 
3^ 2 lbs. of bread cost od., and contain 3 oz. flesh -former, 

20^ oz. body-warmer, ^ oz. ashes, 8 oz. water. 
3^ 2 lbs. of oatmeal cost 6d., and contain 4 oz. flesh- 

former, 24 oz. body-'warmer, ^ oz. ashes, 3 oz. water 
(uncooked). 

The principal animal flesh-formers are beef, mutton, and 
rich cheese. 

Time to Digest. 
Hours. 
3^ 2 lbs. of beef or mutton cost \s. lOd., and contain 7 oz. 

flesh-former, 4^ oz. body-warmer, \ oz. ashes, 20 oz. 
water. 

Component parts of rich Cheddar cheese in 2 lbs. : — Flesh- 
former, 9^ oz. ; fat, 9| oz. ; ashes, 1^ oz. ; water, ^ oz. 

Flour, oatmeal, ground rice, ground peas — 1 lb, of any 
(^ne of these vegetable flesh -formers will give a man as much 
strength as 3 lbs. of lean beef, or 3 lbs. of veal, or 8 lbs. of 
ham, boiled, or nine bottles of Bass's pale ale, or six bottles 
of Guinness's stout, lOd. per bottle. There is also as much 
nourishment in 1 lb. of double Gloucester cheese as there is 
in the above quantities of animal food and drink. 

We will now see whether there are not a great many- 
animal carbonaceous foods, besides the fat that comes from 
butcher's meat, which are very nourishing. There are also 
many vegetable carbonaceous foods. 



DIFFERENT EFFECTS OF FOODS. 119 



Garhonacemts Foods, Body-warmers. 



Animal- 
Butter. 
Dripping. 
Suet. 
Oil. 
Lard. 
Tat. 



Vegetable. 

"Sugar. 

J'reacle. 

Starch, which is in 
bread and all vege- 
tables. 



A fall-grovni man requires daily 10 oz. of body-warmers 
and 5 oz. of flesh-formers. Water and ashes are not in- 
cluded in these quantities. These 15 oz. of solid food can 
be got either from animal or vegetable food. But some 
vegetables contain a smaller proportion of solid matter, be- 
cause they have so much more water ; we must therefore 
eat more of them. They take a longer time to digest than 
meat. 

Ton see that a working-man, it is said, ougtit to eat 
10 oz. of carbonaceous food daily, and only 5 oz. of flesh- 
formers. It is also said that 7 oz. of that food will be burnt 
in his body in 1A<. hours. That means that the carbon in 
these foods will join chemically with the oxygen in his body, 
and make the heat, strength, or force (for they are the same 
thing) he wants. Scientific men can tell how much fat will 
be burnt in a man's body when he lifts a heavy weight from 
the ground. The harder a man works, and the hotter he 
grows, the more fat he burns. He will not burn all the 
ten ounces of carbonaceous foods he eats in the day. Three 
ounces of the fat must be kept to lie between his muscles 
and cover his bones. 

Animal carbonaceous foods, such as suet, butter, and all 
animal fats, are stronger body. warmers than vegetable fats or 
oils, because they contain more carbon. These animal fats 
are therefore the best kind for a working-man to eat who 
works out in the fresh air, where he will get plenty of oxygen 
gas. People who take very little exercise should be careful 
not to eat much carbonaceous food, or they will become fat. 
There was a French baker who grew to be so enormously fat 
that be did not like to go out of doors, because people stared at 



120 FOODS. 

him, and mde little children in the streets made fan of him. 
He could not even raise his arm to pnt on his hat or stoop 
to draw on his boots. He thought perhaps he should grow 
thinner if he lived on slops, such as gruel, &c. But, alas ! 
this food onlv made him grow fatter and weaker. Fortu- 
natelv he met some one who understood the nature of foods, 
and who persuaded him to take nitrogenous foods, that make 
muscle, not fat, such as butcher's meat, cheese, eggs, &c., and 
also to take plenty of exercise. By following this sensible 
advice he soon became of moderate size. 

It is very unwise of people to persevere in eating anything 
that they do not like or that does not agree with them, and 
it is cruel as well as unwise to force a child to take food that 
it does not fancy. Some people cannot eat hard-boiled eggs ; 
others do not like them when they are boiled soft, and some 
cannot eat them at all. To some people shell-fish are 
occasionally very indigestible. I know a lady whose fa'je 
becomes covered with large red spots if she eats oysters or 
any kind of shell-fish. I have heard of a man who was very 
fond of crabs, though they disagreed with him dreadfully. 
He determined he would try and make them agree, so he ate 
one every day for a week. Each day he became worse ; at 
last he was so very^ ill that his family were obliged to send for 
a doctor. The medical man directly enquired about the food he 
had been eating. The reply was, 'Nothing but crabs.' 'Do 
they generally agree with you ? ' ' Oh, no ; that is why 
I eat them. I was determined that my stomach should not 
master me.' The medical man assured him that it was only 
wonderful that he was alive, and that the crabs had not 
killed him. 

Some men and women are so fortunate as to be able to 
eat and enjoy all kinds of food. A gentleman in Leeds told 
me the other day he had often eaten three-quarters of a pound 
of rich Cheddar cheese at a meal, and only felt stronger and 
better for it. Cheese is cheaper and contains less water and 
more nutr'-^nt solids than butcher's meat. 

Healthy working-men who labour hard in fresh air can 
eat anything that is wholesome aud well cooked. If we 
want good digestions, we must work hard too and earn on" 



SOUP. 121 

bread. Idle people who us*^ neither body nor mind suffer 
a great deal from indigestion As a mle they eat too mnch, 
because they have nothing else cO think abont but what they 
shall have for their dinners. 

As I have said before, we should all try and eat every day a 
variety of food. The English people are so ignorant about the 
nature of foods that they are afraid of eating anything but just 
what they are accastomed to eat, and they often cook these 
few things very badly. If English people instead of French 
had been shut up in Paris for six months during the Prussian 
war, thousands of English would have died from starvation, 
because they would not have known how to make the best use 
of the little food they possessed. The French people are 
accustomed to eat nearly every herb and vegetable that grows 
which is palatable and not poisonous. By their freedom from 
prejudice, their knowledge of foods and cookery, they were 
able during the siege of Paris to make the best use of every 
bit of animal and vegetable food they could get hold of. 

In France, Germany, and Russia both rich and poor take 
soup every day. It is the cheapest and most nourishing hot 
dish a poor woman can make for her family. 

When I was in Russia, eleven years ago, I called to see a 
very poor widow with a large family who lived in Riga. 
Though it was winter time her little room looked very comfort- 
able and clean. Her children were sitting round a table enjoy- 
ing hot soup, which looked very good. 

We were in Germany the year before last, anrl stayed at a 
beautiful town called Baden-Baden. I fortunately met a Ger- 
man lady there who knew a great deal about the poor and how 
they lived, because she used to go among them with money 
and other charities sent through her by the Princess Hohcn- 
lohe, who was a half sister to our Queen Victoria. This good 

princess was very much beloved. Miss , the German lady, 

took me to an infant school established by the Princess Hohen- 
lohe. I also visited a school where poor children had a dinner 
every day, as well as their ^hooling. This dinner consisted 
of soup and a small loaf, or cake, of beautiful bread. I had 
some of this soup, which I found so good that I asked the 
matron if she would kindly tell me how it was made. ' Wo 



122 FOODS. 

getup early,' she said — *at four o'clock — and cut some beef up 
into small pieces, put it into the oven, and stew it gently for 
four hours. Then we add milk, flour, and vegetables, which 
we stew very gently together, and the children have the soup 
about twelve o'clock with the loaf of bread.' 

This soup, you se^^ contained the three kinds of food which 
make all the forty things our blood requires. The bread that 
the children put into the soup would make it nourishing and 
digestible, so that the organs would by this means have both 
liquid and solid food to work upon. The soup was also hot 
food. Hot food is much more digestible than cold food for 
people of all ages, but it is particularly necessary for the 
young and old. Their circulation is not very strong. Hot 
food enters the blood more quickly, and makes the heart beat 
faster, so that the blood circulates more rapidly. Directly an 
organ works hard more blood is required to repair that organ, 
for you know they are constantly wearing out. If you have 
eaten a good dinner you feel sleepy ; the blood leaves thebrain 
and flies to the stomach, where it is wanted. Invalids who 
cannot sleep ought to have food in the night ; then the blood 
leaves the brain to help the stomach, and the patient falls asleep. 
It is a bad habit to work either with the head or the hands 
directly after a heavy meal. 

During my next four lectures I intend to teach you the 
principles of cooking. Before we begin to cook I think we 
ought to know all about the good things contained in the 
food we are going to cook. As I intend to show you how to 
make very strong beef-tea, I will read over to you the names of 
the juices and the diS'ercnt solid substances that beef contains. 

Table of fhe Substances contained in the Juices of Flesh. 



Albumen. 
Caseine. 
Sarcine. 
Lactic Acid. 
Butyric Acid. 



Common salt and other salts. 
Red odouring matter. 
More potash than soda. 
Osmazome, fla-^-onring matter. 



You see albumen is put first, as it is one of the most impor- 
tant substances. If albumen, as I told you before, is cooked 
in boiling water (212°) it is so far affected that it becomes 



BEEF-TEA. 123 

hard, and is then much less easily digestible. The savoury 
essences will also be separated by that heat and pass away in 
the steam 

We will snppose that there is a person ve:y ill, whose nerves 
are very weak, and we want to make some strong beef- 
tea as quickly as possible, that .will very soon be digested and 
made into blood, so as to nourish the weak nerves. WTiat we 
must do is to try and get out all the good things that are in 
this piece of beef. Beef is the most nourishing animal food. 
Raw meat always feels wet ; it is because the juices rnn out. 
Remember that the juices contain albumen, which is of a sticky 
nature. If I were to put this piece of meat just as it is into 
boiling water, the boiling water would harden the albumen 
that has run out with the juices and make it feel wet, just as 
if I were to take some glue and put it all over the meat. But 
I do not want to ke^p the juices in ; I want to get them all 
out as quickly as possible. The cook will therefore cut the 
raw meat up into small pieces of about an inch in size, and 
put them into cold water. This meat weighs two ounces ; I 
shall add Exactly two ounces of water and a little salt. Take 
care and only put in a very small quantity, because salt hardens 
the flesh, just as boiling water wotdd do. I will let the meat 
stand in the cold water for an hour or two if I have time ; 
then I will put the jar which contains the meat into an 
oven moderately hot, and let it remain there for at least half- 
an hour. 

Here is some beef-tea that our cook made this morninir ; 
it contains the same quantity of meat and water that we have 
just used. It stood for half-an-honr in cold water, and then 
it was stewed gently in the oven for the same time. Just see 
how good it looks. Here is some beef-tea in another jar that 
was made at the same time with the same quantity of meat 
and water. The only difference is that it was put into boiling 
water and boiled for half-an-hour. You see how poor this 
beef-tea looks, and what a small quantity there is of it. The 
steam which is made when water boils carries off a great 
many good things and wastes the beef-tea. This beef-tea 
would not strengthen the poor invalid nearly as well as that 
which has been properly made. 



124 COOKING. 

Things provided for the Lecture. 
Food table. 

Names of the substances contained in the juices of meat. 
Two glass jars of beef-tea, made from 2 oz. of beef and 2 oz. of water, 
according to the receipts given in the lecture. 

Questions for the Seventeenth Lecture. 

1 . Name the three kinds of food we must eat daily that will keep u? 

warm, make our forty organs grow and be strong, and keep our 
blood and skin healthy. 

2. What dish containing these three kinds of food do the French, 

Germans, and Russians, rich people and poor people, give 

their children every day ? How would you make this dish of 

food? 
?•. "Wliy is hot food more digestible than cold food, particularly for 

children .and old people ? 
4. How would you get all the juices out of meat, and how would you 

make the strongest and most digestible beef-tea ? 



LECTURE XYin. 

COOKING {BOILING), 



Last Wednesday I told you liow yon must cook any kind of 
animal food so that you might get all the juices out of it 
without hardening the albumen. To-day I am going to show 
you how you must cook animal and vegf'table foods so that 
all their juices may be kept in. At the last lecture I read over 
the names of the different substances that there are in ths 
juices of animal foods. 

Vegetable foods, you know, contain substances which are 
very much like those of animal foods, only they have more 
minerals and salts. 

All animals, except man, eat their food raw (uncooked). 
They eat the same things as we do. Why, then, do we take 
the trouble to cook our food ? Because we find from expe- 
rience that some foods have a much better flavour when they 



VEGETABLE COOKING. 



are cooked. For instance, if jou tried to eat a piece of raw 
beef, JOU would find it had a very different flavour from that 
of the roast beef you eat on Christmas Day. A raw potato 
does not taste at all like a boiled one. 

In every kind of food there is a substance that makes that 
particular food taste unlike any other food. The flavouring 
matter that is in butcher's meat, poultry, and game is called 
by a long name — osmazome. Like all flavouring matter it is 
very delicate and is injured by great heat. We eat fruits and 
salad uncooked because we find their flavour is spoilt when 
they are boiled. If you look at the food table you will see 
that some vegetables take a longer time to digest than animal 
food. I believe they would digest much more quickly if we 
understood how to cook them properly. 



Hoars to 
Digest 


One Pound of 


Hours to 
Digest 


One Pound of 


3 

I' 

3 
4 
4 

4 

1 


Meat. 
I Cheese. 1 
Milk. ! 

Veal. 
Fowls. 
Pork. 
Tripe. 


4 

2 

^1 


Bread. 

Potatoes boiled. 
Potatoes roasted. 
Cabbage. 

Kidney or Ilaricot 
Beans. 



You see that a roasted potato only takes two hours to 
digest, a boiled potato three hours and a half. One reason, 
I think, is because the roasted potato has lost none of its 
salt.s, as it does when it is boiled. The salts and juices all 
help digestion. 

Here is the picture of a slice of a potato. You see that 
the starch grains are held between cells or spaces, which look 
like a network. The sub.stance that makes that network is 
chiefly cellulose gluten. In young potatoes, and particularly 
iu all young fruit and vegetables, there is a great deal more of 
this network, which is called cellular tissue. Animal foods 
contain a cellular tissue, which forms a sort of framework in 
the organ, but it is not like the vegetable tissue, a8 it gives 
gluten when it is boiled. One reason why we cook food is 



.26 



COOKING. 



to make the tissues tender. We cannot do so if we harden 
the albumen of which thej are principally made. I think 

Fig. 33. 






^^^g^^^^Mj'^^^U 



^ 

^i;!/ 







Highly magnified slice of a young potato, a is the rind, an-l is like cork on the ontside 
skin ; the inner skin is albuminous and makes flesh. The grains in the many-sided 
spaces or cells are starch grains ; the network that holds them is called cellular tissue. 

you must be curious to know with what degree of heat you 
are to cook, as 1 have told you never to cook meat or 
vegetables in boiling water. 

You see I have written down this information, and you 
must copy it carefully, as it is very important you should be 
able to remember it when you have to cook for your.-elves. 
Every kind of animal and vegetable nitrogenous food will be 
thoroughly well cooked if allowed to remain long enough in 
water that is at 180°. The albumen becomes solid at that 
heat, but it will become hard and less easily digestible, like 
the albumen in a hard-boiled egg, if it is cooked in boiling 
water, which requires a temperature of 21*2°. 

I am now going to show you how to boil a potato. Re- 
member, if you know how to cook a potato, you will know 
how to boil any fresh green vegetable. First of all, the potato 
must be nicely washed in cold water, as this has been. Next 
you must take out all the earth that rests in the little holes. 
Some people use a knife to do this, but a knife may cut the 
skin. A brush, such as our cook has in her hand, is much 
better. You must not let any vegetables stop more than a 
few minutes in cold water (of course you would never wash 
any vegetable in warm water), or it will make the skin soft 
and the juices will come out. The skin of a potato is made 
of a corky substance. You know people put corks into 
bottles to prevent the liquids from running out. Well, this 



VEGETABLE COOKING. 127 

outside skin of the potato, being of a corkv nature, will pre- 
vent the juices from running out. That is whj the skin of a 
potato ought never to be taken off before it is cooked. The 
Irish, who nearly live on potatoes, do not take off the skins. 
If you look at the picture of the slice of potato, you will see 
this corky skin. The next skin contains a little albumen. 
N'ow I will put this potato into boiling water and let it 
remain there for a few minutes, just to allow the boiling 
water to harden the albumen in the second skin. Its salts 
and juices will then all be fastened up, and the boiling water 
will not have had time to go far into the potato to harden the 
tissues and juices. It has now remained a few minutes (which 
is quite long enough) on the fire. I will take the saucepan 
cff and place it on this hob, as the heat of this hob is great 
enough to keep the water at 180°. Here it must remain for 
three-quarters of an hour. It is not necessary to keep watch- 
ing how hot the water is, for you will soon learn from expe- 
rience tha^ a hot hob near a warm fire or a moderate oven 
will keep the water at the right heat. A saucepan onght 
never to be left at the edge of the fire, for then the sides 
would get burnt and the food also. You see that the 
eancepan has its cover on ; this is a most important part of 
cooking. The cover should be instantly put on when the 
food is put in. No food should be put into a saucepan that 
has no lid, because the steam will then take away the heat 
and the flavours. 

Vegetables cooked in the proper way require a longer 
time, it is true, but surely it is worth while to give them 
more time, if by so doing they are made more nourishing and 
digestible. Less fire will also do when the pot need not be 
kept ' a-boiling ' — a most favoarite English expression. Our 
kitchen grates are old-fashioned ones. When our cook 
thought she ought to let the saucepans boil she often found 
it was necessary to have two fires. Now she finds one enough 
•even when she has a large dinner to prepare, and she tells 
ine she never feels in a hurry, as she used to do, nor afraid lest 
the food should be burnt or underdone. 

I am very anxions that you should understand that it is 
very bad — indeed, dangerous to some people — to eat the skin 



128 COOKIN'G. 

of a roasted potato. Now tliat you know tlic skin is like cork, 
you will understand why it is unwholesome. 

Wo will now boil an egg, so that the albumen shall become 
solid, but not hard, and the yolk shall be soft. 1 will put 
this egg into boiling water, but I will not let the saucepan 
remain an instant on the fire. I only wish it to be put into 
boiling water. The cover, you see, is on, I will now put it on 
this hob, which is warm, and there I will let it remain live 
minutes; a minute or two longer will not make it hard, it 
is very important to keep on the lid ; indeed, an egg could 
uot be cooked in this way unless the saucepan was covered, 
because it is cooked a great deal by tlii- stc-am. 

I will now poach an egg. The egg which is taken out of 
its shell will be put into this boiling water. Jt is really 
boiling water, as you see by this thermometer. You will find 
from experience that water docs not always boil directly it 
be<T^ins to bubble. The safe plan, tlievefore, is to let it boil for 
some minutes before you put anything into it. Directly I 
put the egg into the boiling water, 1 put the cover on, and 
instantly remove the saucepan from the fire. It shall remain 
on the hob about the same time that I let the other egg 
remain — from five to ten minutes, just as it suits mo. No 
doubt it woula be quite done in five minutes, but it would not 
be spoilt if loft a little longer. By cooking an egg in this way 
we do not require a clock or a thermometer, and if it is a 
good fresh egg it will be beautifully cooked. I have found 
that stale or bad cggi^ can never be cooked well by any heat, 
however much trouble you may take with them. Of coursi 
it will be the same with all stale or bad meat and vegetables. 
An eg'^ is animal food; if you know how to cook it well, y(jn 
^wili know that the same heat will cook any kind of anini;il 
fooa. Here is a hard-boiled egg; it has been boiled in 
boiling water for ten minutes. Let us compare it with the 
poached and soft-boiled egg. The albumen, or white part, in 
both of them is creamy, and the yolks are soft. Though I 
did put these two eggs into boiling water they never boiled, 
because the eggs, being cold, cooled, the boiling water, the 
temperature of which went down quickly from 212° to 180° 
The first time I cooked an egg in this way T put the egg into 



EGGS BOILED AND POACHED. 129 

•water at 180° instead of patting it into boiling water. The 
consequence was that the egg was not done enough, for the 
cold egg had made the water much colder than 180^. Hard- 
boiled eggs are excellent things to take on a long journey, 
when you cannot get any animal food, as they take a long 
time to digest, and so prevent your feeling hungry. Sand- 
wiches made of bread and batter, with hard-boiled eggs 
chopped up finely and put between the bread, are excellent. 
The yolk of an egg contains a great deal of carbonaceous food. 
In Russia they take the oil out of the yolks of eggs and sell it 
as a medicine. There are two drachms of oil in each yolk of a 
hen's egg. 

I will now show you a very wonderful box called a 
Norwegian self-acting cooking apparatus. If you look into it 
you will see that it is lined with a kind of cloth called felt. 
Felt is a material made of hair and wool that allows scarcely 
any heat to pass through it. There is a saucepan in the centre. 
This saucepan has four divisions. Come and touch the pan 
and you will find that it is very hot. You must look and see 
what there is in these four places. The first contains a 
rolled jam padding ; the second a rice pudding ; the third 
an egg. In the fourth there is a stew. This stew contains 
a piece of beef beautifully done, also a suet dumpling, 
carrots, turnips, celery, onions, and potato. Not only is the 
etew well cooked, but it tastes excellent. There has been no 
steam to carry off the flavouring matter. The pans are quite 
full, so that there has been no waste. Our cook had very little 
trouble. She merely prepared these three dishes and in\t the 
pan into the oven until the puddings and stew began to boil, 
then she instantly put the pan into the box, which was aired 
by the fire, placed this felt cover over the lid, shut it up, 
and put it in a place free from draught for seven hours. 
The working people in Norway use them constantly. I wish 
I could tell colliers, mill hands, working men and women, 
about this wonderful box. The Prince of Wales has taken 
one oat to India. I am glad that this apparatus proves I am 
right in saying that foods are injured and wasted by being 
boiled at 212° for more than a few minutes after they have 
been placed in the saucepan. Full directions will be found in 

E 



130 COOKING. 

the Appendix (p. 195). The Norwegian Cooking Apparatus 
can be bonofht in aU sizes from 12.s, to 3Z., at Silver's, 66 
Cornhill, Lonuon. The box you have seen to-day is a 
travelling ore, marked B. As I wished to show jon several 
dishes at one time. I had the sancepan fitted up with four 
small pans, which have answered very nicely. When not used 
the box and saucepans had better be left open. This rule 
ought to be carried out witli every cooking utensil. 
Tlunrjs provi'lml for the Lecture. 

A bottle -ndth a cork in it. Two small saucepans. 

A picture of the slice of a potato. An old and a new potato. 

Three eggs. A brush to clean potatoes with 

A Bunsen burner. A blice of a potato cut like the 

A thermometer. picture. 

Questiotis for the Eigldeenth Lecture. 

1 . Why do -we cook our food ? 

2. How would you boil a potato, or any fresh vegetable ? 

.3. Why is a roa-sted potjito more easily digested than a potato 
cooked in any other way ? (It is digested in one hour less time.) 

4. Why must a cover always be put on a saucepan all the time the 

food is being cooked, unless the pan is a copper one not tinned inside ? 

5. now would you cook a fresh soft-boiled egg, or a poached one, if 

you had neither a clock nor a thermometer-^in fact, had to do it 
by guess ? 

LECTURE XIX 
COO KIN G {coiitinued). 
TVe intend, if there is time to-day, to cook the following tilings: 
— A mutton chop, so that all the juices shall be kept in, and 
the meat be tender and tempting for a delicate stomach ; some 
rice and macaroni, so that it can be eaten with any kind of 
meat, or with milk and sugar, or with treacle alone. 

Before the cooking begins I must ask you to examine 
the fireplace we have brought to cook with. Mr. Wilson, the 
tinner in Woodhouso Lane, has taken great pains to make it 
exactly like the fireplace that every English working-man has 
in his own home. It has not got an oven, only a place where 
an oven ought to be, as it was necessary to make the whole thing 
as small and light as possible. I am obliged to bum charcoal. 



A MUTTON CHOP. 131 

as coal would make a great dsal of smoke, and we have no 
chimney to carry it away. We will now put a plate to warm 
before the fire, so that it may be ready for the chop when it is 
cooked. We shall only use the same sancepans and cooking 
utensils that you are accustomed to see used. 

Here is the gridiron ; you see it is very clean. If it were 
not very clean, the flavour of the mutton chop would be quite 
spoilt. As the fire has now burnt up bright and clear, we will 
put the gridiron over it for a few minutes to get the bars hot, 
for then the chop will not stick to the bars ; some people rub 
grease on the bars, but that is not a good way. The chop 
must not be put on with a fork, as the fork would make holes 
in the meat and let out the juices. By means of a spoon and 
a knife it is easily put on. As we want to keep all the juices 
in, we will put the gridiron very near the hot coals, and then 
the red heat will directly harden the albumen that is on the 
outside of tjie chop, and so fasten in all the juices. 

A fine chop will take twelve minutes to cook thoroughly ; 
a very thin one, a minute or two less. Remember, it must be 
turned six times — that is, once in every two minutes. No per- 
son ought to cook a chop without a clock or a watch to look 
at, as great care is required to cook it well. Directly the chop 
is ready, it must be put upon a nice hot plate ; if the plate is 
cold, the chop will be spoilt, however well it has been cooked. 
The next thing is to eat it directly ; a chop should be carried 
from the fire to the dinner table. Do not put butter or any- 
thing on the chop. It is best eaten with a little salt and a 
good potato A person with a very delicate digestion could 
eat a chop cooked in this way when he could eat nothing else. 
Now I will cut this chop open, to show yon how nicely it is 
ione. The flesh is not at all red, only full of juice. A beef 
jteak ought to be cooked in exactly the same way. 

I will now show you how to roast a joint of meat. You 
4iust have the same clear, bright, red fire to roast by which 
^ou require to cook a mutton chop with. We will suppose 
iliat this is a loin of mutton ; it is really only two chops cut 
from a loin of mutton. As we want to keep all the juices in 
this joint, we must let it hang as close to the fire as possible 
for t-cn rainutes. Then the great heat that comes from a clear 



1 32 COOKING. 

hot fire will in that time harden all the outside of the meat, 
and so fasten up the juices. When this is done, we must move 
the meat to a great distance, and let it cook verygeutlv. The 
fire must never be allowed to burn low ; it must continue 
clear and hot until the meat is done. The meat must also be 
constantly basted ; that is, the melted fat that falls into the 
dripping-pan must constantly be poured over it with a spoon, 
because the fat keeps in the juices and prevents the meat from 
burning and being cooked too quickly. Take care to keep the 
dripping-pan a good distance from the fire, so that no pieces 
of coal can fall into the dripping and make it dirty. 'No fat 
ought to be more highly prized than dripping, for it is almost 
the most nutritious fat that can be eaten. Dripping is much 
nicer than lard for frying fish, &c. ; it also makes excellent 
short crust for fruit pies. If any coal should fall into the drip- 
ping-pan, the dripping, when cold, must be put into boiling 
water. When it is melted, the bits of cinder and dust will 
fall to the bottom, and the di-ipping will rise to the top in a 
large white cake. It is not at all an easy thing to roast a joint 
of meat propeily, for it takes one person's time nearly to look 
after it and to keep the fire bright. 

A mother who has a large family and a baby to look at\er 
cannot be expected to roast meat very often. A friend of mine 
told me that her mother, who was a working- woman, never 
could give them roast meat when they were children, unless it 
was on a feast cay, when one of her elder children was at 
home (as it was a holiday), and could attend to the fire 
and baste the meat. The old-fashioned way of roasting meat 
was to place it at some distance from a black new-made fire ; 
it was considered the best plan to let the meat and the fire 
grow warm together ! As we have very little time left, I must 
take away the meat. I think you will have learnt from what 
you have seen bow to roast a joint of meat before the fire. 

We will now cook some rice and macaroni so that they may 
be eaten with any kind of meat, like a vegetable, or with milk 
and sugar, or with treacle alone. The rice has been well 
washed two or three times in cold water, but was not allowed 
to stand in it. Macaroni must never be washed. We shall 
cook them both exactly as we cooked a potato. As the water 



RICK AND MACARONI. 133 

is now boiling in this saucepan, we will put the rice into it. 
As the saucepan is very small, we must put very little rice in, 
or the rice will not have enough room to swell out. There is 
a great deal of starch in rice and all vegetables, you know. 
Each starch grain swells very much.' Here is a picture of one 
before it is boiled, and here is the same grain when it has been 
cooked.^ You see it has grown three times as big. Vege- 
tables are very often spoilt by being put into too small a sauce- 
pan with too small a quantity of water. We will now put on 
the macaroni. Like rice, it also will require a very great deal 
of room. These three little pipes which I am going to put in 
will become very much larger when they are cooked. As tho 
rice and macaroni have now boiled for a few minutes, we will 
put a saucepan on each hob and let them cook gradually. 
While they are cooking I will tell you a little about rice and 
macaroni, and the countries they come from. In China and 
India the natives live chiefly on rice. The Hindoos are now 
suffering frodi a famine because the rice crops failed last year. 
Though rice is a very good food, it is a dreadful thing that the 
Hindoos will eat hardly anything else — first, because their 
bodies and minds would be stronger if they ate different kinds 
of food, and another reason is that it is a fearful thing for any 
people to depend on one food, for when that food fails there 
must hv a famine. People died by thousands and thousands 
in India during a famine of this kind some years ago, and as 
many more had fevers and all kinds of complaints owing to 
their not havingr had half enounfh to eat. 

In Ireland, you know, there was a famine several years ago, 
too, because the Irish people lived mainly on one thing — pota- 
toes. I fear they still eat very little else in many parts of 
Ireland. 

The working people in the south of Italy live almost 
entirely on macaroni. Macaroni is a most nutritious food, 
because it is made chiefly of vegetable albumen — that is, gluten, 
that substance wh^ch makes our flesh, nerves, and muscles, 
and is called nitrogenous food. I am sure your mothers would 

' I showed a drawing of two starch grains, f>. 8'J. 
^ Page 89. 



134 COOKING. 

often give jou both rice and macaroni if they knew how easily 
these foods are cooked. Rice, yon know, is very cheap. The 
rice we are cooking to-day only costs threepence a ponnd ; 
two ounces would make a good- sized pudding. Two ounces 
of macaroni would also make a large dish ; therefore it is a 
very cheap food, although it costs eightpence a pound, because 
it is very nutritious and swells out so much when cooked. 
The straight sticks are better than the twisted. The sticks 
must be broken into small pieces about four inches long, or to 
suit the saucepan. The macaroni you see in this dish ' was 
first boiled in water, like a potato or any green vegetable ; it 
was then placed in the dish ; a little pepper and salt were 
added, some cheese was grated over the top, and it was put 
into a hot oven until it was nicely browned. Here is a rice 
pudding that is made of skimmed milk, with a little suet 
chopped up very fine in it. You see how good it looks, quite 
rich. The goodness of all puddings, particularly those made 
of rice or tapioca, depends on their being cooked very slowly 
and on their having jplenty of room to swell out. Dripping 
does as well as suet in case the milk is poor. 

Semolina costs eightpence a pound. It is made chiefly of 
gluten, and is therefore a most nourishing food. Semolina is 
eaten in great quantities by the Italians ; they call it polenta. 
In Algeria it is the national dish called couscousou. Fermenty 
is a dish eaten in Yorkshire at Christmas time. It is made of 
wheat and water, which are cooked in the oven until the wheat 
is tender, and then currants and milk are added. This is a 
most nourishing food, and not indigestible if the wheat is 
crushed. The Americans call it mush. The Syrians live 
almost entirely upon- it. It is their daily national food. 

Revalenta Arabica is only ground lentils. Lentils are 
stronger food than grain ; they are much given to cattle, 
but they are also very good when put into soup. There is a 
food called corn-flour which, I am sorry to say, is given in great 
quantities to infants. Corn-flour, like arrowroot, is almost 
entirely made of starch, which you know produces fat in the 
body. The babies fed on corn-flour grow fat, and because they 
grow fat the nurse or mother concludes that the child is doing 

' I sho-wed a small dish of cooked macaroni. 



yKQETABLK I'REPAEATIONS. 



135 



splendidly, -when all the time the poor little thing is being 
* pined ' to death, becanse it has no food to feed its muscles, 
nerves, and bones. 

Things jyrovided for the Lecture. 



A picture of h starch grain, cooked 

and uncooked. 
A gridiron. 
Two saucepans. 
One knife. 
, metal spoon. 
,, ounce of rice to boil. 
„ „ ,, show ho"w much 

it had swelled -when boiled. 



One ounce of macaroni to boil. 

„ „ macaroni cold. 

One chop to grill. 
Two chops to represent a joint. 
A dinner plate. 
A small rice pudding. 
A small dish of macaroni prepared 
with cheese grated over the top. 
A small model kitchen range. 



Questions for the Nineteenth Lecture. 

1. How would you cook a mutton chop or a beef steak, so that all the 

juices should be kept in, and the meat be tender and tempting 
for a delicate stomach ? 

2. IIow ought a joint of meat to be roasted before a fire ? 

3. Why will all vegetable food, such as rice, flour, potatoes, and all 

green vegetables, be made sad or hea^vy if they do not have plenty 
of room to swell out in the saucepan while they are being 
cooked ? 

4. How would you cook rice so that it could be eaten with any kind 

of meat, or with milk and sugar, or with treacle alone ? 

5. How would you cook macaroni so that you could eat it with any 

kind of meat, cheese, or with milk and sugar, or with treacle? 



LECTURE XX. 

COO KIN G (continued). 

The French are not only excellent cooks, but they are most 
economical with their food. They waste nothing. For 
instance, if they boil any kind of food, no matter whether it is 
fish, flesh, fowl, or vegetable, they always take care of the 
water in which these foods have been cooked, and make soup 
of it, except that water in which potatoes have been boiled 
with their skins on. The French people evidently know what 
you know now — that every kind of food contains a great many 
good things, and that some of those good tilings must come 



136 COOKING. 

out into the water, however carefnllj the food may have beei 
cooked. 

Sonps made from the liquid in which fish has been boile» 
are very good, unless the fish has been salted. In the sam' 
way, you cannot make soup of the water in which salt mea* 
has been cooked. For this reason salt meat is an extravagant 
food, because the water in which it is cooked is useless 
Another reason why salt meat is extravagant is, that whe^ 
salt is put on any meat the salt draws out its juices. Th« 
brine that comes from salted meat is the part that contains" 
most of the juices, and that part is thrown away. This i.'^ 
done in England even with the water in which fresh meat ha? 
been boiled. It is only a very few years ago that several o* 
our soldiers who lived in some London barracks were nearlj 
starved to death. They became very thin and weak. It wafs 
considered very strange, as the best fresh meat was bought 
for them, and they had some of it every day. At last an en- 
quiry was made. It was then found that they never had 
anything but boiled meat, which was boiled to a rag, and the 
cook always threw away the liquid in which it was boiled. 
This story proves very clearly that even English cooks do not 
understand anything al)out the different properties of foods 
and the principles of heat by which they should be cooked. 
No person ought to call himself a cook who does not know 
these things. 

I will now tell you how to make clear stock for soup from 
butcher's meat. Here is some meat stock in this glass jar. 
You see it is quite clear. The reasons why this stock is so 
clear are, first, because the meat and the bones with which it 
was made were put into a perfecihj clean saucepan, with cold 
water, of course, as the juices had to be brought out of tho 
meat. Secondly, because the meat was never allowed to boil, 
only to simmer. If soup boils the albumen in the meat 
becomes hardened and rises in little bits to the top and makes 
what is called ' scum.' Even if the soup does not boil a scum 
will rise if the saucepan is not spotlessly clean, for any old 
bits of food that were sticking to the sides and bottom of tlie 
pan will come off and rise to the top ; then the soup will taste 
disagreeable and it will be thick. English professed cooks will 



aoup. 137 

ieh fotx that soup cannot be clear unless it hoils for a quarter of 
an hour, and that during this quarter of an hour you should 
throw in a little cold water to make the ' scum' rise, and keep 
taking it off with a spoon. All the time the scum is being 
removed the cover is kept oflT, and the steam is carrying off 
the flavouring matter, injuring the juices, hardening the 
albumen, and wasting the soup. The stock in this bottle was 
allowed to boil, and the scum was removed ; but it is not 
clearer than the stock in this other bottle, which never boiled 
and had no scum removed. There is, you see, a great deal 
more of the soup that only simmered than of the boiled soup, 
to say nothing of its being more nourishing. 

The most nourishing beef-tea for invalids is of ten prepared 
by putting the beef into a jar which is placed in a pan of 
boilinET water. Custards, milk, and other foods are often pre- 
pared in the same way. Xo food can be brought up to boiling 
point in a pan which is merely surrounded by boiling water. 
This is a scientific fact that all ought to know. Captain bar- 
ren's famous cooking pot is constructed on this principle — the 
steam that is made by the boilingr water in the outer pan 
passes into the lid, which is double, or into a steamer which, if 
wanted for vegetables or puddings, can be put over the cooking 
pan. It is quite impossible that any steam can enter the 
middle pan : here the food is cooked by hot air so that it loses 
none of its flavouring matter, and scarcely any of its weight. 
When soup is wanted, water, of course, is used. We have 
cooked several kinds of food with the greatest success in 
Captain Warren's ' Everybody's Cooking Pot.' A few days since 
an article appeared in the Times describing this apparatus, from 
which I give the following extract : — ' The heat to which the 
food is subjected cannot be greater than 210 deg. Fahrenheit ; 
and the closure of the vessel, and the consequent gentle stew- 
ing of the meat or fish in its own juices, is attended by a 
very remarkable prevention of waste and preservation of 
flavour. It is estimated that the loss of meat by ordinary 
methods of cooking is about one-third by roasting, or 5^ 
oz. in the pound, about 4^ oz, in the pound by boiling, and 
about 3| oz, by baking ; while the loss by Captain Warren's 
process is altogether insignificant. Thus, Captain Harrison, 



138 COOKING. 

R.X,, records an experiment tried under his supervision on 
beard tlie Shannon mail-boat, in which a leg of mutton 
weighing 12 lb. was cooked in the ship's oven, and when con- 
sidered well done was found to weigh 8 lb. On the following 
day the other leg of the same sheep was cooked in one of 
Warren's pots, was placed in the ship's oven for a few 
minutes to be browned, and when taken out was found to 
weigh Hi lb.' 

My cook will now make a nourishing cheap soup that shall 
contain both animal and vegetable food without using any 
butcher's meat. Before she begins to make the soup, pray 
notice how clean the saucepan is. She will put in a pint of 
cold water. When it boils, the following vegetables will be 
added. All green vegetables should be put into boiling water, 
though they are not to be boiled, or else they will lose their 
colour. A little sugar also keeps them green. Soyer, the 
celebrated cook, never made a soup without putting in some 
sugar, as it is very nutritious. 1 will now tell you what the 
quantity of vegetables, &c., ought to be for this soup: two 
pints of water, two ounces of green peas (carrots or any vege- 
table will do), one onion, one lettuce. All the vegetables must 
be cut up very fine ; if carrots are used, they should be scraped 
(carrot soup is the nicest of all vegetable soups). To this 
must be added two cold potatoes, or uncooked ones, one table- 
spoonful of flour or oatmeal mixed up with two ounces of 
dripping, half a teaspoonful of sugar, some salt and pepper, and 
half-a-pint of milk — the milk to be added when the vegetables 
are done. Milk is not necessary for the soup, only it makes 
it more nourishing. These must all simmer gently for nearly 
an hour, and then the soup will be quite ready to be eaten. 
Split or dried peas require a much longer time — about two 
hours — and this is the most nourishing soup of all. 

iS'ow we will just see how it is that this soup is made of 
animal and vegetable food, although it contains no butcher's 
meat. Well, the dripping is animal food, and so is the milk. 
What a good nourishing meal this would make if some biead 
were eaten with it on a cold winter's day. It is also so easily 
prepared. A m.other might make it in the morning early, so 
that her husband or children could take it with them to the 



SOUP WITHOUT MEAT STOCK. 139 

mi]], where they could warm it up, or she could get it readj 
after breakfast and put it into a slow oven, so that ii she was 
obligeQ to go out in the ra.orning it would be rcadj for din- 
ner when she returned. This is what the French women 
always do. 

At the end of the lecture you shall taste some soup which 
was made this morning at home. It is made exactly like 
the one we have just prepared for cooking. An immense 
number of soups can be made without butcher's meat. 

Remember the stomach must have a solid, or else the 
organs which digest solid food will get out of order, and the 
person will grow weak. Doctors say that many lives have 
been lost because nurses have given sick people nothing but 
beef-tea after they have become much reduced by a severe 
illness. The different essences of meat, like beef-tea, do not 
feed and strengthen, but only stop the waste of the nerves 
and muscles. 

The following extract from Dr. Edward Smith's remarks 
made at a meeting of the British Association in 1872, will 
prove the truth of what I have just said: — 'Then we shall 
no longer have sick and dying men, women, and children fed 
with Liebig's extracts of meat under the delusion that it is 
nutriment in the ordinary sense. Liebig's extract is meat 
flavour, a nervous stimulant, and has good qualities, but it is 
not food.' 

Another extract from a publication called ' Land and 
Water' bears on this subject: — 'How many a recoverino- 
patient has sunk under the stimulating beef-tea which suited 
his period of prostration, but which starved his returning 
strength. How many a weakening frame has been lost by 
the attractive but worthless jellies which pious and lovin"- 
bands had carefully prepared.' The same authority says that 
batter and eggs should be added as soon as possible to the 
beef-tea, or to the food in some way. These two foods, 
butter and eggs, contain body-warmers, and will therefore 
make fat. Fat burns away in the body very quickly 
when anyone has a fever. It is an important fact that no 
one can live unless his body contains a certain quantity of 
fau 



140 COOKING. 

Cold meat, you know from what I have told yea in one 
of my lectures, is not so nourishing as hot meat ; it w there- 
fore rery necessary that we should learn how to make a crood 
hot dish with cold meat. Whether we hash or minw cold 
meat, we must take gi-eat care and make a good jrravy to 
warm it up in, and cook the meat very httle the second time. 
The gravy must also have a pleasant taste and a good flavour, 
because the meat will have lost a great deal of its flavouring 
matter, called osmazome, while it was being cooked the day 
before. This is why there is scarcely any flavour in cold 
meat. You know that hot meat and cold meat taste quite 
diflerently. It is a fact that a nice taste or a good smell 
makes our mouths water — that is, causes the saliva to flow.' 
When the saliva flows into the mouth, the gastric juice also 
comes into the stomach. As the saliva and the gastric juice help 
our food to digest, it is very important that what we eat should 
taste, smell, and look good. A dirty tablecloth, dirty knives 
and forks, dirty plates, take away the appetite of even strong 
people ; while poor invalids and delicate persons are often 
prevented from eating the food they so much need, and upon 
which their very lives may depend, because it does not look or 
smeU tempting, and is brought to them in a dirty and untidy 
manner. 

The following is a receipt for making gravy for a hash or 
a mince without meat stock: — 

Put a teaspoonful of flour, a little dripping, and an onion 
into a saucepan ; hold the saucepan over the fire until the 
onion is nicely browned ; do not let the onion burn, or the 
flavour of the gravy will be quite spoilt ; add half-a-pint oi 
boiling water, pepper, salt, and a little nutmeg ; instead of 
nutmeg any sauce can be used that is liked, such as ketchup 
Let these things simmer a short time ; then put in the colct 
meat, cut into small slices. Put on the cover, and let the 
hash simmer gently on the hob for ten or fifteen minutes, 
until the meat is quite hot. 

When we stew we ought to use fresh uncooked meat ; a 
stew is therefore very difierent from a hash. We stew meat 
in order to make the flesh or tissues tender. We also want 
to keep in all the juices : we must therefore take care and 



A STEW. 141 

see that the water or gravy ^^hich the meat is put into is 
boiling. The meat must then be stewed for a long time in a 
moderately hot oven. Tough meat should always be stewed. 
The following is the most simple receipt I know for stewing 
a beef steak or any meat in a way that would suit an invalid 
wdth a delicate stomach : — 

Take off all the fat and skin from a rump steak nearly an 
inch thick ; just dip it into boiling w^ater, sprinkle a little 
pepper, and then flour it on both sides rather thickly. Wash 
out the stew-pot with boiling water : put in the meat with 
about a tablespoonful of water, and let it stew gently until it is 
tender. The salt brings out the juice; therefore put it in at 
the last. A thick slice of mutton is very good stewed in this 
way. 

As there is an immense quantity of tea drunk m England 
by both rich and poor, I am going to tell you the good and 
the harm it does to our health. Here is a list of the sub- 
stances there are in tea. 

In one pound of tea are to be found the following sub- 
stances : — 

OZ. GRAINS. 

Water 350 

Theine AO 

Caseine ....... 2 175 

Aromatic Oil ') 52 

Gum 2 385 

Siig.r u 211 

Fat J 28'J 

Tannic Acid ....... 4 87 

Woody Fibre . . . . . o 87 

Miuural Matter 350 

Theine is the nutritious substance. The volatile oil gives 
the flavour of tea. The latter, like all flavouring matter, is a 
most delicate substance, and would all fly away if the tea 
were boiled. This is the reason why we only pour boiling 
water on tea when we make it. Theine has a great effect 
upon the nerves ; for this reason, when tea is taken very 
strong, it often keeps people awake the whole night. 

Tannic acid, which you see the tea contains, i.s the same stuff 
which tanners use to tan leather. This acid hardens albumen 



142 COOKING. 

In the stomach ; that is why it is not a good thing to take 
meat with tea. Theine stops the gastric juice from flowing 
freely into the stomach. Cold bread and butter are the most 
wholesome foods to take with tea. 

I will now try and describe the effect a cup of tea has 
upon our bodies. We will suppose that a poor woman feels 
faint from want of food. She has nothing in her stomach, 
and takes a cup of tea. It is cold weather. For a short time 
the tea warms her, and she feels happier and more cheerful, 
for the theine in the tea has supported her nerves. It always 
does this if taken in moderation and not too strong. After a 
little time, the woman begins to feel colder and weaker than 
she was before she took the tea. There is scarcely any nou- 
rishment in tea except that which is got from the sugar and 
milk. Tea has a very powerful effect on the skin ; it opens 
the pores and makes us perspire. The poor woman will there- 
fore be thinner and weaker after her cup of tea, because the 
perspiration will have carried oflP some of the wasted or used- 
up substances of her body, and she had none to spare. 

It has now become the fashion for ladies to take a cup of 
strong tea at four o'clock, after a good meat lunch, and before 
they take a good dinner at seven o'clock. Their cup of tea 
will no doubt do them good, because they will be all the 
better for the waste that the cup of tea will cause. I am very 
anxious to give this information about tea, because I am quite 
sure the mothers and daughters of the working- classes in 
England injure themselves very much by taking too much 
tea. Many wives and mothers used to come and talk to me 
at the end of the lectures I gave last winter, and I was very 
sorry to find from what they told me how much they suffered 
from bad health. Face-ache, tic, rheumatism, and bronchitis 
were very common complaints. I found that nearly all of 
them were in the habit of taking a great deal of tea. Mill- 
girls, who work in close rooms, become unhealthy, and then 
they easily take cold. Tea makes them more tender, because it 
opens the pores of their skins and makes them perspire, so 
that when they come out of the close warm rooms on a cold 
day, or at night, they easily take cold. 

No persons except doctors work harder than the indns- 



TKA AND COFFEE. 143 

triouH wives of working-men, and they are your mothers. 
They not only work all day, bnt they arc often obliged to 
work all night if they have a sick child. No women require 
more nourishing food. They ought to take very little tea, 
unless they can have the best food. 

Wc will now learn all we can about coITco. This list 
w»n tell us wliat it contains. 

(n a pound of coDTcc there will be : — 

OZ. CHAINS. 

Water 1 4(i7 

Sugjir 1 17 

Fat 1 4U2 

Caseino ....... J 3o 

Ciifffine, or theine 122 

Aromatic Oil 1^ 

Caifeic Acid (with Potash) .... 280 

Gum 1 192 

Woody Fibre 5 2G2 

Saline Matter 1 31 

Tou see there is no tannic acid in conbe ; but there is a 
substance called cafleino, whicli is the same in nature with 
theine, having the same cheniica] composition. It al.so aflccts 
the nerves, and keeps people awake if they take it too strong, 
bnt will soothe and cheer them if they only take a moderate 
quantity. The peculiar taste of coffee is also due to a volatile 
oil. Like all flavouring matter, it is very delicate, and is 
spoilt by boiling. No one ever thinks of boiling cofTee ; it 
ought to be made exactly as tea is made, by pouring boiling 
water upon it. Coffee can be kept for a long time hot en a 
hob, where the heat will be about 180 degrees, and will not ho 
spoilt. Cold coffee is very disagreeable. Coffee does not 
open the pores of the skin as tea docs ; on the contrary, it is 
said to shut them up, and therefore it does not waste the 
body, it only makes the blood hot. 

In Fi-ancc and Germany very little tea is taken. Every 
poor person takes coffee for breakfast and tea. They make 
it a very nou'.'isiiing drink, becaii.se they only half (ill the cup 
with coflee ; the ether half is hot new milk or skinmied milk, 
and tiien they add a great deal of sugar. Coffee is said to 
prevent. people fi'om having gout and rheumatism. I know 



144 



COOKING. 



that when I nursed a friend who had a dreadful attack of 
gout, his pain was always relieyed,when I gave him a hot cup 
of coffee and hot milk in the middle of the night. Remember 
the milk should always be made very hot that is taken with 
coffee. Milk should never be boiled, because the albumen grets 
hardened and rises to the top, and makes the skin you have 
often seen on the top of a cup of milk. 

Kow we are going to learn about cocoa and chocolate. 
Perhaps you do not knovsr they are both made from exactly 
the same kernel of the tree called Theohroma cacao, which 
grows in America and the West Indies. Chocolate and cocoa 
are prepared in a great many ways. Cocoa or chocolate is very 
good for people who can eat fat food, such as children and 
young people, but it does not suit all bilious people. 

One pound of cocoa or chocolate contains : — 

OZ. GRAINS. 

Water 3.J0 

■Aiburaen or Gluten 3 85 

Theobromine . , . . . . 1 140 

Cocoa Butter 8 

Gum 426 

Starch 1 63 

Woody Fibre 280 

Colouring Matter ...... l4t» 

Mineral Matter 280 

You see that there is a great deal of fat in it. Cocoa ought 
to be cooked gently and allowed to simmer for half-an-hour 
or more, and have a great deal of milk, which should simmer 
with it. It is a great pity mill-girls do not take it in-stead of 
tea. Cocoa-nibs ought to simmer for two or three hours ; 
they cannot be done well in less time. 

Things 'provided for the Lecture. 

A glass bottle of soup made of vegetables, like the soup we made at the 

lesson for the children to taste. 
Two pints of water, two oz. green peas, a cold potato, one tabbspoonful of 

flour, two oz. of dripping, half a teaspoonful of sugar, pe,'per, salt. 
One gill of milk. 



COCOA, 145 



Questions for the Tiuentieth Lecture. 

How could, you make a great many most nourishing soups, which 

should contain both animal and vegetable food, thcatih you had 

no butcher's meat to put into them ? 
Why would a sick person be pined to death in a very short time if 

the nurse g tvp no other tood but the strongest beef-tea ? 
If you had sjme cold meat, how would you hash it? 
Why is tea a very bad thing for old or young people who cannot get 

plenty of good fojd? 
Why is cofiVe, as the French and Germans tak- it, more nourishing 

than tea ? 



LECTURE XXI. 

COOKING {concluded). 

I HAVE tolr1 you that tlie food we eat must be of different 
kinds — animal, vegetable, and mineral. We will read what 
is written on this sheet and see what it tells us about animals 
and plants. 

A germ is the beginning of life in all plants and animals. 

Plants have organs ; animals have organs. 

Tliej are both made of organic matter. 

Botli germs contain exactly the same substances — oxygen, 
hydrogen, nitrogen, and carbon. 

You all by this time understand that animals have organs, 
but I do not think you all know that plants have organs. An 
organ is an instrument or a place where something is done. 
I will now show you that plants have organs. I hold in my 
hand a young potato-plant ; here are the potatoes, the leaves, 
the stems, and the roots. It has just been taken out of the 
earth. You see there is some earth sticking to these little 
roots. These roots, which look like fine little white threads, 
go down into the earth and suck out of it the water and 
mineral substances upon which the plant lives. These 
little roots are little pipes, and carry the water and 
minerals up into the stems and then into the leaves, and to 
eveiy part of the plant to feed it, just as our blood is carried 
to pvery part of the body by the arteries, 

L 



140 COOKING. 

There are thousands of little holes, or pores, in every leaf, 
like the pores in oar skin. If you had a raicroscope, yoa 
could see them : remember they are generally found on tiiQ 

Fi_'. 34. Fig. 35. 





Yeait Plant.' Amoeba — th^ most simpl? form of animal life. 

under side of the leaf. Plants are said to breathe through 
these holes. They take in one kind of gas and send out 
mother, as we do through our mouths. You will be surprised 
:o hear that they take in carbonic acid gas, and they send 
3ut into the air oxygen gas. If plants did not make use of 
carbonic acid gas, we and all dumb animals should soon be 
poisoned, because the air we breathe would become quite 
fall of it. The Almighty allows nothing to be wasted; Ho 
has good use for everything He has made. 

You see that plants have organs, for I have just named 
three— the roots, stems, and the pores that cover principally the 
under part of the leaf. I should like to tell you a great deal 
nbout plants, as they are so wonderfully and beautifully made. 
I should like you all to have window-gardens, as cliildren 
have in London, and receive prizes for the boxes of fiowers 
that have been most carefully nursed. They require great 
care and soon die if they are not watered. When any part of 
a plaut dies, it turns to corruption, just as the dead part of an 
animal would ; and while it is dying, it gives off very poisonous 
gases. At last it returns into oxygen, hydrogen, nitrogen, and 
carbon ; these are the four substances that both animal and 
vegetable germs are made of. 

' I- must be remiinbered tli it these figures represent the ^.bject3 very 
much ma^nitied. 



ORGANIC ilATTEPw. 147 

I hope you will never eat any fruit like these jj^ooseherries, 
which are decaying, or, as you. would say, going bad. The 
poisonous gases that are in these dying gooseberries closely 
resemble tliose made in an animal ^Yhen in is dying or 
turning into corruption. These gases and the poisonous germs 
that live in corruption will give you diarrhopa or cholera. If 
people understood that it is as dangerous to breathe the air 
that comes from a decaying plant as it is to breathe the air 
that comes from a dead animal, they would not put dead vege- 
tables, such as potato- peelings, old cabbages, &c., into a pail 
and let them stand in the kitchen under the sink, or anywhere 
in the house i>Iiddens, or refuse heaps, are dreadful places, 
for on to them fish-bones, vegetables, and all kinds of dead 
organic matter are thrown. A delicate person might catch a 
fever by even passing near such a place. The saiae might 
happen in passing a cesspool or a river in which there is or- 
ganic matter. It is disgraceful to see some parts of our river 
and canal in Leeds. If you venture to stand a rao^nent, and 
look at them, you will see gases bubbling up that '.'ome from 
dying organic matter that is slowU floating down, making the 
air unbearable. Even in lovely country places, wbere the air 
ouglit to be so fresh and sweet, fevers break cat, because 
people have middens, pig-styes, and dung-heaps close to their 
cottages. Farm-hotrses are often unhealthy because the farm- 
yard, stables, and cow-houses are kept dirty. The manure 
atid other dtad organic matter becomes liquid, and runs all 
about, and often finds its way into the well which supplies 
the house with water. Streets that are badly paved or are 
not paved at all have deep holes in them: these holes become 
filled with dead organic matter made liquid by rain. Such 
streets are a great reflection on any town council, as they cause 
fevers by filling the houses near them with poisonous gases. 
Courts and alleys are very unhealthy places, and ought not to 
be allowed, because fresh air cannot pa.ss through them 
and kill the poisonous germs that always collt-ct wherever 
dirt exists. 

I must now mention a very dirty and disagreeable habit 
that children have in schools of washing their slates with their 
own saliva. Spittle, or saliva, you know onntains organic 

I. 2 



148 COOKING. 

matter as it comes from our bodies. ]\lauy children have 
caught diseases by this practice. The shite you used to-day, 
and cleaned in this dirty manner, will be used by some one 
else to-morrow, and if yoa were recovering from scarlet fever, 
the child who used your slate would catch the same fever. 
Sore eyes, as well as fevers, have been spread throughout a 
whole school by this dirty habit. I liope soon to see in all our 
Board schools that sponges and water are fastened to every 
desk, and that the children will be obliged to use them. 

Sweat is dead organic matter. People ought never to 
sleep in clothes they wear by day. Night-clothes should 
always have fresh air during the day. At our house we always 
sleep with our windows open about an inch or two at the top. 
Directly we get up, we have the bed-clothes turned down and 
the windows opened wide. Then the oxygen comes in and 
gets into the bed-clothes and purifies them. 

Do you not know how much sweeter clean clothes smell 
that have been put out of doors to dry than those that have 
been dried' indoors ? I am surprised to see in many houses 
that the beds are made directly we leave the bedroom. They 
ought never to be made until the beds and the clothes have 
been well aired. Feather beds are dirty things ; they ought to 
be frequently exposed to fresh air, bec.iuse a gn^at deal of 
dead organic matter is often left on the feathers when they 
are put into the bed-ticking. Remember that the organic 
matter that is in dirty beds, bed-clothes, or wearing-apparel 
returns into the blood through the pores of the skin as well as 
through the lungs when we breathe. Carbonic acid gas, you 
know, kills us by sending us into a sleep from which we never 
wake, as it did the two sailors belonging to the French 
schooner 'Jeanne Roberts' about a month ago. These men, 
finding the night very cold, determined to keep themselves 
warm by shutting up the chimney and every hole, so that no 
fresh air could enter. In the morning they were found dead ; 
they had been killed by breathing the carbonic acid gas that 
had come out of their mouths. 

The poison from decaying organic matter destroys life and 
health much more slowly than carbonic acid gas, and in a 
much more dreadful way, because it injures the brain. People 



OHGANIC MATTER. 149 

become miserable, and sometimes mad. The\ lose their appe- 
tites and long for drink, which only makes them worse. 
Courts of justice like those in our townhall, where the assizes 
are held, are filled with crowds of human beings, many of 
whom have on dirty clothes. Architects, p^entlemen who build 
these courts of law and other grand buildings, do not yet 
understand how to ventilate such places. Judges and stipen- 
diary magistrates often snffer very much from bad health 
because they are obliged to sit day after day and month after 
month breathing air poisoned by organic matter. About a 
year ago a celebrated judge, it is supposed, lost his life from 
this cause. His brain became diseased ; he lost liis senses, 
and killed himself. If gentlemen who only spend a part of 
their days in grand buildings are killed by bad air, what is to 
become of poor men, women, and children who have to liveniLrht 
and day in air much worse than that which is to be found in 
a court of justice '^ One sleeping-room sometimes holds three 
or four families. A respectable cobbler or tailor in London will 
carry on his trade in the only room which he and his family — 
perhaps seven children — have to live in by day as well as by 
night. Just fancy for a moment how dreadful the air In that 
room must become by the morning. Even should the pai'crit.s 
wish to open the window at the top, they cannot do so, for in 
the miserable dwellings for the poor windows are seldom made 
to open in this way. We cannot wonder there is always so 
much fever, scrofula, and preventible disease, when we know 
how people are crowded together. Fathers and mothers will 
not put up with these miserable homes when they know what 
I have told you during my lectures. The air at the bottom 
and top of all rooms is the least pure ; for this reason people 
should neither sleep on the floor nor allow a baby's cot to 
stand on the floor ; it should always be put on a table or raised 
in some way. 

Germs grow quickly in all organic matter, but they fjrpw 
the quickest in liquids. Milk, you know, is organic matter; 
it is therefore very dangerous to leave milk, or any solid or 
liquid food, in a sick person's room, for the germs ihat are in 
the air may fall into this food. Should anyone eat this food, 
they would very likely take the fever, or whatever the com- 



150 COOKING. 

plaint might be. Last antnmn, in London, in the parishes of 
St. George, Hanover Square, Marylubone, and Paddington, 
there were no less than 104 families who were seized with 
typhoid fever. It was found that ninetj-six of those families 
had all had their milk from one dairy. When the health 
inspector went to examine the dairy, he found that typhoid 
fever had been in the farm-house where the milk came from, 
and all these cases of typhoid fever had been caused therefore 
by drinking this milk. Very often milk, as we know, is mixed 
with water. Should this water have been poisoned by organic 
matter from a drain or farmyard, the milk with which it is 
mixed may give disease. 

Jugs, or any utensils that hold milk, particularly feeding- 
bottles for infants, ought always to be washed out with boiling 
water, because boiling water kills all animal and vegetable germs 
Warm water only makes them grow. It is sad to think how 
many little children suffer and die in the summer from bowel 
complaints, because they have drunk sour milk. Whenever 
milk is sour, you know directly that germs are growing in it. 
The feeding-bottle which I fear is most used is the one that 
has a long india-rubber tube. Some of the milk, in passing 
through this tube, is changed into a poisonous gas called sul- 
phuretted hydrogen. In addition to this, the milk sticks to 
the inside of the tube and becomes sour and full of poisonous 
matter. No nurse, however careful, can clean out this tube, 
for if boiling water were poured thiough it, the india-rubber 
of which the tube is made would be spoiled. In 1871, 471 
little infants died in Leeds under a year old of diarrhoea. Mr. 
Wheelhouse believes these tubes to be the cause of hundreds 
of cases of dian-hoea and of many deaths every year. The 
only safe feeding-bottle is the old-fashioned one that has a 
teat over the glass mouth, and no tube. The teat can be put 
into boiling water, and thus made quite sweet. 

It is quite impossible to cook well unless all the saucepans 
and utensils you use are perfectly clean. Every saucepan 
ought to be washed cut wdth boiling vrater ; and the water 
ought to have some soda in it, because you know soda will 
take away all the grease that may be in the saucepan. Spoons, 
forks, basins, dripping-pans, gridirons, must also be as care- 



IMPORTANCE OF CLEANLINESS. 151 

fully washed as the saucepan. Some people -will tell you that 
it is not right to wash a dripping-pan or a gridiron very often, 
as they ought to be greasy. On the contrary, they ouo;ht to 
be washed directly they have been used, or the drippiiig will 
be very bad and unwholesome. A little bit of dead organic 
matter left in a saucepan will spoil the flavour of any food 
that is put into it. Grease is organic matter. My cook tells 
me that she never uses a saucepan without putting her hand 
into it, because she can tell certainly by that means whether 
it is quite free from grease. 

The outside as well as the inside of a saucepan ought to 
be washed, or the smoke and soot will cover the outside, and 
prevent the heat from passing through to heat the food. This 
pan, you see, is a clean, bright tin one. The water in it is 
boiling. You could not bear to keep your finger one instant 
upon any part of it ; but just cover it with soot, or put a thick 
coat of soot on your hand, and you will find that you could 
then hold the saucepan on your hand very well for some 
minutes. This will show you how soot keeps out the heat ; 
and you can therefore understand that a saucepan covered 
with soot will not receive as much heat as a clean saucepan, 
and the water in it will not boil so quickly. With a bright 
kettle, and a very little bit of bright, hot fire, you could boil 
some water very quicklv. 

Dirty saucepans make dirty hands, and dirty shelves and 
walls which they hang by or rest upon. A cook who keeos 
everything she uses clean, saves time, her own clothes, her 
master's coals, and the food she cooks. The bad and wasteful 
English plan of putting a saucepan filled with food on a fire, 
to boil away for a long time, not only spoils the food, but 
spoils the saucepan. The food gets burnt, and sticks to the 
bottom and sides, and is mo-st difficult to scrape ofi". I once 
saw a kitchen-maid whose nails were quite worn down to the 
quick by trying to scrape it off. If any of the old burnt food 
is left in the saucepan, which it must often be, when put on 
tbe fire, tlien the fresh food will take the flavour of the burnt 
grease and be spoilt. 

I once heard a professed cook say to her pupils, ' When 
you want to fry fi.sh you must first let the fat boil, and mor.? 



152 COOKING. 

ihp.u boil.' Now, if fish or any food were cooked in boiling 
fat, it -would be spoiled and burnt to a cinder. Fat is a 
diSBcnlt substance to cook. Burnt fat is very difiGcult to 
digest ; pancakes and fried fish are considered trying to a 
delicate stomach. Water boils at 212°, but fat does not boil 
until at 600° or 700°. Fish, veal cutlets, and all kinds of food 
will be beautifully browned when the fat is at 350°. 

The cook will now fry this piece of fish, called a fillet of 
sole, in this fat ; you will see by the thf rmometer that the 
heat of the fat is what I have already named — 350°. Directly 
the fish is nicely browned she will put the frying-pan on to 
the hot hob, and let the fish remain there until it is done. 
Fried fish, like all other food, ought to be gradually cooked, 
not fried in boiling fat. 

I have told you that the Paris and the Vienna bakers 
make the bei?t bread. The simple reason why they sur- 
pass the bakers of all other countries is because they use 
a thermometer, and find out by it when the oven is at the 
exact heat it ought to be before they put in their bread. 
In this countr}', bakers gain this information by many little 
guess-work schemes, such as our cook, who is an excellent 
bread-maker, employs. She puts her hand into the oven 
to feel how hot the air is. As her hand is gometimes veiy 
hot, and at other times very cold, she cannot always find out 
the exact heat of the oven. When her hand is very hot, the 
oven will not seem as hot as it really is ; if her hand is very 
cold, the contrast with the hot oven will make the heat seem 
greater than it really is ; and in this way she may fail to judge 
the heat of the oven rightly, and then her bread will be spoilt. 
Wlien the dough is put into the oven, the heat ought to be 
about 570° Fahr, In about five minutes the heat should 
gradually grow less, to between 480° and 420°. When you 
put the dough into a properly heated oven — 570° Fahr — the 
starch grains swell in the dough and the yeast plant continues 
to grow, until the heat in the air in the oven has spread 
throughout all the dough, and then the yeast plant is killed. 
It will take about five minutes to do this. Then the oven 
should be made cooler by a great many degrees ; let the heat 
go down until it is about 420° ; then tbe bread may bakp <«• 



USE OF THE xHEKilOMETER. 158 

cook gradnally. If the oven is not hot eiiongh at first (570''), 
the yeast goes on rising or growing, and the bread becomes 
fall of holes like a honeycomb. Directly we see such bread 
we say it has not been well baked. 

Every oven ought to have a special arrangement for the 
use of a thermometer. It is very difficult now to place one 
conveniently. When I was in Paris this autumn I was kindly 
taken through the kitchens of the Louvre Hotel ; there I saw 
the oven was provided with a thermometer attached to the 
outside. The maker of this oven is A. M. Lesobre, 17, Hue 
de la Vieille-Estrade, Paris. I also found that all the meat 
was roasted at a splendid open fire. No meat can be properly 
roasted in an oven. The fresh air that surrounds the meat, 
has a peculiar and healthy effect. 

Home-made bread is more wholesome than bought bread, 
because bakers often add alum to make bad flour appear white 
and good. Bakehouses are too frequently dirty, unventilated 
cellars, in which the air is most impure. 

This is my last lecture on cooking. I hope you have all 
learnt by this time the value of the thermometer. It is not at 
all an expensive instrument. Messrs. Harvey & Reynolds, 
Commercial Street, Leeds, sell some, like this I have used, at 
3s., which go up to nearly 700^. With one of these a 
cook could boil and fry every kind of food. I hope that there 
will soon be one in every kitchen, and that all young girls will 
be taught to use them. A thermometer that goes up to G00° 
will answer all cooking purposes. 

JVihigs provided for the Lecture. 
A fryini,'-pan. 

Some dr pr'ing for trying the fish. 
Fillet of sole (wilh eeusoned bread crumbs and egg all ready prepared). 

Quediuns for the Tive)dij-first Lecture. 

1. C u you tell m-? what > rganic matter is? 

2. "VVhy is it dangerous to drink or eat any fo )d that has remained in 

the room of a s (k person who has had a fever or any contagious 
complaint? 
t How -would you clean a gridiro-i, dripping-pan, or any saucepan so 
that it should not be thw l^Hst (greasy ? 



54 TUE XEKVES. 

4. Why is it necessary to clean a saucepan outside as -vrell as inside? 



0. 



Ilow would you find out the proper heat to fry fi>h or any food in sc 

as to m:ike it a beautiful brown colour? 
Why do the Paris bakers and the bakers in Vienna make the best 

bread ? 



LECTURE XXII. 

THE NERVES ASD THE SESSE OF HEABIXG. 

To-day I am g-oing to explain the organ of hearing. Before I 
do so I must tell you a little more about the nerves. Thev 
may be compared to the springs in a Avatch, When a watch- 
maker has made all the wonderful parts or organs of a watch, 
they would not move unless be put some springs which keep 
the organs going. Our nerves are the springs which are 
fastened to all our muscles, and by this means our limbs are 
made to move. Those nerves that spread through our bodies 
come out from the spinal cord, which passes down the backbone, 
or spinal column. There are, you know, twenty-nine bones in 
the spine. At every joint a pair of nerves come out, one on 
each side of the spine between the vertebrae. These nerves 
spread out all over the body like a fine white network. Look 
at this diagram (page 67),' and you will see them. In tliis 
picture of the spinal column (page 66)^ you may see how they 
come out between each pair of vertebrae. Each spinal nerve 
is really made up of two sets of cords wrapped up side by side 
in a sort of sheath. One set of these cords forms the nerve of 
feeling, the other the nerve of motion. 

The spinal cord, you know, is also connected with the 
brain. When anything happens to the outside of the body, 
the nerve of feeling takes the news of it up to the brain ; and 
then the nerve of motion carries back directions what to do, 
and puts our limbs into action. 

For instance, if you put your hand on anything hot, the 
nerve of feeling in the hand sends a message up to the brain 
to say that touching this hot thing hurts your hand. If it is 
burning hot, the brain sends back a message by the nerve of 

' Marshall'f; dicigiam. No. 7. ^ Hid. 



NERVES OF FEELING AND MOTION. 155 

motion to take the hand off. Sometimes it happens that the 
nerves of motion become killed or paralysed for a time by a 
stroke or a tit of paralysis, while tb.e nerves of feeling are not 
at all injured by the fit. This once happened to a man. He 
could not move any limb, not even his tongue to speak, bnt all 
the time he coald hear, see, and understand what the people 
did and said who were standing round his bed. In a few day.s 
his nerves of motion recovered their power, and then he told 
all those who had been in the room how dreadful it had been : 
for he had understood all they had said, and they had talked 
about a great many things of which they would not have spoken 
had they known that he could understand. Nurses and 
friends should be veiy careful not to talk before paralysed 
people when they have lost their speech. 

We have some nerves that are called voluntary nerves — 
that is, nerves which give us the power to move the limbs to 
which tliey go ; for instance, the nerves in my hand and 
tongue are voluntary nerves. I call these nerves into action 
when I determine to move my hand, but I do not of ray own 
accord excite the nerves that make my heart beat so regularly. 
If it stopped beating for a few seconds I should die. Lest I 
should forget to excite these nerves upon which my life de- 
pends, the Almighty does it for me. Great fear makes us 
grow very cold. Sometimes the muscles become quite para- 
lysed by fear, and they cannot move. The heart then ceases 
to bent, and we die. This is how people are killed by fear. 

How very cruel it is to frighten a little child or any dumb 
animal ! It is also very silly to try and make a child or a 
dumb animal do anything by fear ; for we all know that when 
we are very much afraid we lose our senses and the power of 
doing anything. Nurses who frighten children are not only 
very cruel but very silly, for in the end they have much 
more trouble with the children than if they had treated them 
kindly and sensibly. 

Mr. Wheelhouse, the doctor, was once sent for to a little 
boy who had the croup. His nurse or parents had been in 
the habit of telling him that if he was a naughty boy ths 
doctor would com.e and cut him' up. When the doctor did 
come, and perhaps might have saved his life, the child screamed 



156 THE NERVES. 

SO fearfully thafc Mr. Wheelhonse was obliged to remain in 
another room while the child was dying. I am afraid that 
a great many children are made idiots or weak in mind by 
fear. 

When the mind is troubled and weakened, all the organs 
become weakened too. It has often happened that a person 
who was just going to sit down to a good dinner received bad 
T-ews, Instantly after hearing such news even the smell and 
sight of the good things became disagreeable to him. This 
is the reason why people grow thin when they are unhappy. 
They lose their appetite and cannot eat. When our minds 
are troubled, and we are unhappy, riches and ease bring us no 
comfort. The only way to cure unhappiness is to work. 
Try to do something that will help other people ; get plenty 
of fresh air and exercise. A poet has said that our nerves 
are like a stringed instrument called a harp. He says — 

Strange that a harp of thousand strings 
Should keep in tu;.e so long. 

You must often have heard people say, ' I am quite un- 
strung; my nerves are shaken.' It is quite true that the 
nerves of people who sit in bad air, such as is to be found in 
crowded schoolrooms, workshops, theatres, and courts of 
justice, become very irritable and shaky; though these people 
feel very weak, nervous, and cross, they cannot bear to bo 
quiet. This is the state of mind that leads people to drink 
and take spirits. Alas ! by doing so they only add one poison 
to another; for spirits, you know, at last make the nerves so 
weak that the whole frame trembles from head to foot. Bad 
air, again, is very trying to little children. They are often 
required to sit still with their arms crossed for a long time 
together. This position contracts their lungs, while the bad 
air in the crowded schoolroom, where they have spent several 
hours, naturally makes them restless and irritable. This bad 
air has the same effect upon teachers, who are not then dis« 
posed to be very gentle to the children under their care. 

Toothache and tic are complaints sometimes caused by 
weak nerves. You know there is a nerve in every one of our 
leeth. Little children who live in bad air RuiYev dreadfully 



EFFECTS OF NERVOUS IRKITATION. 157 

vhiJe tliej are cutting their teeth, but children who live in the 
.onntry and have good air do not suffer half so much. If 
(jroperly i'ed and nursed, they ought scarcely to suffer at all. 
-Ooctors say that a great many more children die in large 
towns than in the country. The nerves in their teeth, being 
weak from bad air and bad food, cannot bear the pressure of 
the gum, which becomes very much swollen and inflamed. 
Directly a doctor lances the gum and lets out the blood the 
pain goes away, because the gum no longer presses on the 
nerves. It is a pity that so many mothers are afraid to let 
their childfen's gums be lanced, for this simple operation 
prevents convulsions and a great deal of suffering. 

Oxygen strengthens and tightens the nerves just as the 
tuning-key tightens the strings of a harp and puts it in tune. 
Don't you know how cheerful and good-tempered you feel 
when you. have been out for h long walk in the country, and 
how quickly you fall asleep when you go to bed ? What a 
pity it is that mothers do not try and give their childijen fresh 
air, instead of buying soothing syrups to make them sleep ! 
There are hundreds of these dreadful syrups, and in every one 
of them there is laudanum. It is nothing but the laudanum 
that sends the children to sleep. Only a few weeks ago a 
friend of mine heard a lecture that was given by a celebrated 
doctoi in a lunatic asylum, a place where mad people are kept. 
He said that people now drink a great deal of laudanum, or 
swalkiw opium, from which laudanum is made, and that this 
driven them mad. Worse than this, the quantity given to 
little children by their mothers is something immense. Lau- 
danum deadens the nerves, so that they can scarcely move. 
The appetite goes, and the child who has continually taken 
laudanum is pined to death. 

A fi-iend of mine went into the house of a poor neighbour 
-ome months since, "and saw a poor little infant in its mother's 
irms trembhng like a leaf. She said, ' Oh dear, the poor little 
thing is going to have a fit.' ' Oh, no,' replied the mother; 
'it only does this because it wants to go to sleep.' Another 
day she went in and found it just in the same dreadful state; 
this time she saw the mother give it some soothing syrup, and 
it soon fell asleep. TIjc; mother said, ' Oh, it will nevei- sleep 



15y THE ^EE\ES. 

without that staft\' The poor little child was onlv skin and 
bone ; it has since died. I am afraid that thousands are killed 
in the same horrible way. I will tell you the following facts 
to prove the immense quantity of these soothing syrups that 
are sold. A respectable druggist of Manchester once told 
Dr. Lyon Playfair that he sold, every week, five gallons of 
'quietness' and half-a-gallon of ' Godfrey's soothing cordial.* 
In Preston it was found that the chemists sold, every week, 
701. worth of ' Grodfrey's cordial,' 'quietness,' 'child's pre- 
server,' ' s3-rup of poppies,' and laudanum. 

My father was a doctor. He gave us, his children, very 
little medicine, and begged us never to take any unless a 
doctor had ordered it. It is only men and women who are 
ignorant of physiology who will venture to give medicine to 
their children, or to children who have been committed to 
their care. I liave often heard ladies say, ' My nur.-e under- 
stands all about a baby, and she knows when to give it 
medicine.' If mothers themselves took care of their children 
when they were young, neither a doctor nor medicine would 
often be needed. I perhaps know more than a nurse. } et I 
should not venture to give medicine to anyone, much less to 
a child. 

It is sad to know that thousands of quack doctors grow 
rich by selling their pills and lotions, while the people who 
buy and swallow them grow poorer and more unhealthy. It 
is a pity that they do not keep their money and spend it on 
a trip to the country, where fresh air and change of scene 
might really do their health good. I do hope you will never 
buy any medicine that is advertised in a newspaper or on a 
wall ; for, j-cu may believe me, no really good and clever 
doctor will ever advertise the pills and lotions he has made, 
and say that they will cure all kii ds of complaints, with- 
out ever having seen the person who was going to take 
them. How is a person to know what is the matter with 
himself or his child if he is not a doctor ? Even the cleverest 
doctors say that it is difficult for those of them who live in 
the house with their patients and see them, every day, to find 
out which of the forty organs is diseased or out of order. The 
quack medicine you have paid so dearly for may be the very 



EFFKCIS OF LKAr> POISONINCi. LVJ 

one that you ought not to take, and may hurt the organ that 
is weak. 

People are very foolish to buy hair- washes. They gene- 
rally contain lead, which is a dreadful j)oison, and often 
causes paralysis, I have a friend who used a hair-wash — 
fortunately only for a short time — and she became slightly 
paralysed. Lead which is in paint, and sometimes in drink- 
ing-water, &c., injures the nerves very much, and gives many 
painful complaints. Dr. Guy says that early in the eighteenth, 
century there was a dreadful disease in Devonshire. People 
were first taken ill with a painful colic, next their hands be- 
came paralysed, and lastly they were delirious or epileptic, 
and they died in convulsions. Devonshire is a county where 
cider is made and the people drink a great deal of it. Sir 
George Baker, a celebrated physician, determined to find out 
the cause of this disease. The cider was chemically ex- 
amined, and it was found to contain lead. The next point 
was to discover how the lead had got into the cider. It was 
found that the following things were done by those who 
made the cider : — The presses in which the apples (cider is 
made of apples) w^ere put were mended by iron cramps fixed 
by melted lead. If the^'e was a crack in the press, this crack 
was covered over by a sheet of lead. A leaden weight was 
put into the cider to prevent the liquor from turning sour, 
and lastly the cider was carried from the press in leaden pipes. 

Lead can enter the blood through the pores of the skin ; 
that is why hair- washes containing lead paralyse people. 
Painters, plumbers, type-founders, and all who work with 
substances that contain lead, should wash their skin frequently, 
and always wash their hands and faces before eating any- 
thing. Some persons are made very ill by remaining in a 
house while it is being painted, or by sleeping in a freshly 
painted bedroom. 

The sense of hearing, which I am now going to explain, is 
called a special sen.se. When wo hear any noise, the sound 
of it comes tiirongh the air and strikes our ears. You know 
that if you stop your ears you will not hear anything; but I 
will also show you that without the air }T»u would be equallv 
unable to hear. 



ioO THE NERVES. 

The air uboiit ns is made up of very tiny particles ot 
matter ; matter means something you can feel or touch. 
We cannot, it is true, see the air that fills this room, but vre 
often feel it when we are out of doors on a windy day ; then 
it knocks against us so roughly that it nearly throws us 
down. Tl^e air helps us to hear, for when anything makes 
a noise it knocks these little particles against each other, and 
they carry on the sound to our ears. 

You have all thrown stones into a pond of water, and 
seen that directly the stone struck the water little rings were 
made all round the place where the stone fell in. These little 
rings round the hole spread out one after another like small 
waves, until they reached the edge of the pond. Every time 1 
speak the air is forced out of my lungs and pushes the air in 
this room, and little rings or waves of sound are made, that 
spread out one after another until they reach the walls. 

If there was no air, there would be nothing to make a 
sound, and everything would be silent. You see this glass, 
and inside it there is a little bell. All the air has been pumped 
out of the glass. We can pump out air just as we can pump 
out water, Now I will ring this little bell. Do you hear any 
sound ? Xo, not any, because there are no particles of air 
inside the glass to make the waves of sound. When a noise is 
made waves of sound go through the air in all directions, and 
some of them get into your ears. You have a great many 
nerves of sound in your ears ; the rings or waves strike these 
nerves, and they carry the sound to the little centre of white 
and grey matter that holds the sense of hearing, placed in the 
back part of the head under the little brain. We have two 
centres of hearing, one for each ear. We have an outer ear 
and an inner ear. You can only see the outer ear ; it is this 
curled or twisted piece of flesh. It is twisted because the 
waves or rings of sound can get into the ear more easily 
through these curved places. Human beings generally cannot 
move the outer ear, but a great many animals can do so. A 
horse pricks up its ears, so does a donkey. 

All animals who have to escape from their enemies by 
muring away can 'fortunately hear very quickly, such as a 
hare or a rabbit. Sporting dogs have very large outer ears. 



THK EA.R. 161 

The dogs called rat-catcliers have very large outer ears, because 
they have to listen at the mouth of the liole where the rat 
lives, to hear whether the rat is at home. If the dog hears a 
certain noise, he knows the rat is inside, and then goes into 
the hole to try and catch liim. Rat-catchers also want these 
long ears to prevent the earth that they scratch out of the hole 
from getting into the ear. 

A great many people cut dogs' ears ; it is a most ignorant 
and cruel practice. It is done to improve their beauty. Do 
you think that animals would have long ears but for some wise 
purposes, or that men can improve their beauty f 

Landseer, the celebrated painter of animals, was walking 
down a street in London, and met a man who was selling 
dogs. To his great surprise and delight, none of the dogs 
bad their ears cut. He asked the man the reason why. 
' Uon't you know that Landseer, the great painter of dogs, says 
they ought never to be cut, and he will not paint any dogs 
whose ears are cut?' Landseer told the man that he was 
speaking to that painter, and they were both equally pleased 
to have seen each other. 

Now, there is a passage, about an inch long, that goes from 
the outer ear to what is called the middle ear: this middle ear 
is placed inside the bone of the skull which is called the tem- 
poral bone. You can feel this l)one l)ehind vour outer ear; it 
is very strong. The end of this passage is covered by a little 
piece of skin, so that nothing can go through it. Inside this 
passage there are a great many hairs and a good deal of wax. 
These hairs and wax prevent little insects and dust from 
getting in. You must never pick your ears with anything. 
Motliers, I hear, clean their children's ears with a pin, which 
is a most dangerous practice, as the pin might burst that little 
skin, called the drum, that covers the end of the passage. If 
you could look behind the drum, you would see a little room, 
called the middle ear, which is filled with air. In this room 
there are three curious little bones. These bones are connected 
together by little joints. One little bone is like a hammer, 
another is like an anvil, and the third is like a stirrup into 
which you put your foot when you ride on horseback. One 
of the bones, the hammer, is fastened to the dram or skin that 

M 



162 THE NERVLS. 

covers the end of the passage, and the last bone, the stirrup, 
is fastened to another little skin that covers a most wonderful 
winding passage in the inner ear. One part of this second 
passage is called the labyrinth, because it twists about ; and 
the other part of the passage is called the shell, because the 
passage winds about in the shape of a snail's shell. In these 
passages there is a liquid like water, and then there is a bag 
which is filled with the same fluid, and floats in the watery 
passage. A great many nerves of sound, that look like fine 
threads, cover the floating bag, and go along inside the pas- 
sages until they reach the collections or centres of white and 
grey matter which are placed in the back part of the head. 
The nerves of sound are placed in water, because water carries 
sound much more quickly than air. 

Now I have only to describe liow the air mores these 
nerves of hearing. When the waves of sound rush into the 
first passage, they strike against the piece of skin that covers 
that passage, called the drum, and make a noise just as if yon 
struck a drum with a stick. This skin moves and pushes 
those curious little bones that lie in the little room that is 
filled with air on the other side of the drum. They all l>egin 
to shake and tremble until they make the air knock against 
the other little piece of skin, called the oval window, that 
covers the enti-ance into that curious winding passage in the 
inner ear ; and then all the little nerves that are in the bag of 
water begin to tremble, and they tremble so much thai they 
shake the nerves which pass from them, until this shaking 
reaches the 'centre' of hearing under the big brain. The 
brain then feels the shaking, listens, and beg-ins to think about 
what it hears, and then finds out what the sound means. 

We all know that children suffer veiy much from earache. 
There is no doubt that a great deal of their suffering is caused 
by the way in which those who have the care of them clean 
their ears. The only part of the ear that ought to be washed 
with soap and water is the outside ear which twists about. 
Great care should be taken to dry ijentlij all these twisted 
parts, and to let no water get into the little hole that leads into 
the first passage. If the ear is healthy, this passage is never 
dirty. Nature cleans it out by means of the wax, which 



THE EAR. 163 

EfTows very dry and falls out in fine powder. If water gets 
in, the wax is spoilt. People often squeeze np the end of a 
towel, and push it into the hole ; this presses the wax down 
upon the skin, or drum, that covers the end of the passage. 
Air cannot then get into the ear, and the lump of wax gets 
hard and injures the drum, or causes inflammation, so that 
the child may become hard of hearing or deaP. An earpick or 
a pin is sometimes used to take out the wax, and these may 
also break the drum. A loud and sudden noise has broken 
the drum, such as the going off of a gun close to the ear. No 
one ought to be allowed to box a child's ears, because the blow 
forces the air against the drum just as a loud noise does, and 
the membrane of the drum may be injur> d A doctor tells 
the following sad story to show how cruel this practice is : — 

A boy who had been troubled with sore ears became hard 
of hearing. His father was in the habit of boxing his ears, 
because his son appeared stupid and inattentive. The boy 
died, and it was then fonnd that his ears were diseased. The 
doctor thought the death might have been caused by the 
blows the boy had received. 

If a child cries when its ears arc washed, or does not 
generally attend to what is said to it, let a doctor look at its 
ears, for very often this inattention is not the child's fault. 
When a child has sore ears, or is suffering from ear-acbe, apply 
hot flannels. People often put hot onions, figs, &c., into the ear 
for tooth-ache as well as ear-ache. No one but a doctor ought 
to put anything into the ear. Cotton- wool collects in the 
ear and injures the hearing. When a person is exposed to a 
draught or cold wind, a handkerchief should be tied over the ear. 

I will now let you see and examine this beautiful model of 
an ear, and I think you will find that all the parts I have 
described are there. 

Things provided for the Lecture. 
A diagra:n of the brain, spinal cord, and nerves. 
Auzoux's model of the ea . 

Questions for the Ticenfy -second Lecture, 
1. Why is it very dangerous to friqht^n a child? 

JJ. Why do a great many more children die in large towns every yaai 
while culling their teeth than in the country ' 



164 THE NERVES. 

3. Why are all kinds of soothini^ syrups very dangerous, and sure be 

•weaken the nerves of a baby? 

4. Why is it very unwise to take any quack medicines, particularly 

those which are advertised in newspapers or on the walls? 

5. Why is it very cruel and foolish to cut off the ears of a dog ? 

6. Describe all you can remember about the sense of hearing. 

7. Why is it dangerous to box a child's ears ? 



LECTURE XXIII. 
SIGHT AND SUNSH2XE. 



The sense of hearing, which I described in my last lecture, is 
called a special sense, because the nerves of hearing are only, 
or specially, made to receive and carry the waves of sound. 
The sense of sight is also called a special sense, because the 
nerves of sight are only, or specially, made to carry the waves 
of light. We cannot see with the nerves of hearing, or hear 
with the nej*ves of sight. The nerves of sight and hearing 
have no feeling, like the nerves that are spread all over other 
parts of our bodies ; even the slightest touch hurts these 
nerves of feeling, but someone might cut your nerves of sight 
and your nerves of hearing, and you would feel no pain. 

I am now going to explain the organ of sight. When I 
showed you the human skull, you must all have noticed what 
very deep holes there were in the place where the eyes ought 
to be. Those holes are called sockets : they are filled with 
cushions of fat, that have a hole in the middle of them. In 
these holes the eyeballs rest. The eyeball is round ; it has 
three coverings. I have a .large model of the eye, which I 
will now show you. I can take this model to pieces and show 
you how wonderfully the eyeball is made, but before I do so 
let us see what the front part of the eyeball, that we can see. 
looks like. First, there is the part called the white of the 
eye, then in the centre of the white there is a clear glass-like 
part, behind which is seen a coloured ring. In some people 
this ring is blue, in others it is black, and in others grey or 
brown ; but we all have a little hole exactly in the middle of 
this coloured ring which always looks black. As all the light 



THE EYE. 165 

that enters the eye passes through this dark hole, it is called 
the window or pupil of the eye. If you can't see this model, 
look into each other's eyes, and you will see that your eyes 
nave what I have described. I will now take the eyeball to 
pieces. It has three coverings. The first one outside is 
white, and we can see it because a part of this cover comes to 
the front, and is called the white of the eye. The second 
covering is black. And now we come to the third or inside 
covering, which I shall explain first. 

The third covering is called the retina, and consists of a 
transparent nervous substance as clear as glass ; but as the 
eyeball is also transparent like glass, the gentleman who made 
the model has made the retina look white like ground glass, in 
order to show how much of the eyeball is covered or lined bv 
the retina. This retina consists of an immense number of 
threads, which are the nerves of sight. These nerves all join 
together into this large nerve of sight which you see at the 
back of the eyeball. This large nerve of sight goes to the 
portion of the brain devoted to sight, that lies between the 
great and the little brain. As we have two eyes, we have two 
such portions of brain. They are called the centres or ganglia 
of sight. When rays of light have entered into the eyeball 
through the window, or pupil, they fir H pass through some 
clear parts, called the humours, and then strike and go 
through the retina, and then they all sink into the second 
black covering, which I will now place over the retina. 
Directly all the rays of light have sunk into this black cover- 
ing, a perfect picture will appear on the retina, at the back of 
the eyeball, of all that stands in front of the eye. For in- 
stance, at this moment there is a pei-fcct picture painted on the 
retina of my eye, as on a looking-glass, of this room and every 
boy and girl before me. The nerves of sight of which the 
retina is made are very delicate ; they cannot bear too much 
light all at once. What do we do when too much light 
comes into a room ? Do we not draw a curtain, to keep out 
some of the light ? A beautiful little curtain is also drawn 
for ns directly too much light tries to pass through the window 
of the eye. This little coloured ring 1 showed you that is 
placed round the window or pupil of the eye is the curtain, 



166 SIGHT AND SUNSHINE. 

and is called the iris. We have all different coloured ejes, as 
T said, because we have all different coloured curtains ; some 
are blue, some brown, some black. When the light is not 
too strong, the window or hole in the centre of the eye 
becomes large ; but when the light is very strong the curtain 
draws together and makes this hole very small. Have you 
ever seen a cat's eyes in a dark room, how bright they are, 
and how large the window, or pupil, looks ? A cat can see 
much better than we can in the dark, because her window 
can be made much larger than ours, and so lets moie light 
go in. 

I will now say a few words more about the first two cover- 
ings of the eyeball. The black one, or second covering, is 
called the choroid, and is filled with veins, arteries, and capil- 
laries. It must therefore be carefully guarded. It is well 
protected, you see, by the white or first covering, which is 
called the sclerotic, for it is very tough and strong. I will 
place it over the black covering. The black covering makes 
the picture on the retina look more distinct, and it also makes 
the window, or pupil, of the eye look so black. Over the 
front part of the eye, where the curtain and window are 
placed, there is a transparent covering like the glass face of 
a watch, called the cornea. It also bulges out like a watch- 
glass, and is fitted into a little groove that runs all round the 
edge of the white coat, or sclerotic. 

I will now explain why we have eyebrows, eyelashes, and 
eyelids. Insidf» the eyelids there is a very tender coat or 
skin, which is quite transparent. The same skin passes over 
the whole of the front part of the eye. If a bit of dust has 
ever got into your eye or under the eyelid, you will know, 
from the pain it gave you, how delicate this coat is. The 
smallest piece of any hard substance would injure the eye 
if it remained in it ; this skin is therefore made so sensitive 
and tender that we cannot rest until the hard stufi' has been 
taken out. 

Everybody ought to know how to take out anything that 
has entered the eye. You have only to press a knitting 
needle or something hard across the outside of the lid at the 
top, take hold of the upper eyelashes and make the lid turn 



THE ETE. 167 

over the hari needle. Then you will easily discover the sub- 
stance, if it is sticking, as it often does, to the delicate 
membrane. A clean quill pen is a good thing to get it out 
with, if it cannot be gently washed or rubbed oiF. 

On the outside of the eye, in this corner farthest from 
the nose, are placed our tear-glands. These little tear-glands 
and other little glands on the inside of the eyelids are con- 
stantly forming and sending the watery fluid known as the 
tears over the front of the eye. The lid moves this water 
about and washes the cornea with it, so that there may be no 
dust on it to prevent the light from passing through the 
window, or pupil. This is what happens when we wink. 
Perhaps you do not know that you wink your eyes a great 
many times in a minute. The dirty water runs out into two 
little holes ; one is on the top lid and the other on the bottom 
lid. In the corner of the eye near the nose tliere is a little 
tube that passes down into the nose : this tube, or pipe, 
carries the water away through it. "When we cry we always 
blow our nose ; as the tear-glands then send out too much 
water for the pipes to carry along into the nose, the tears then 
run down over the cheeks also. 

The eyelashes are little brushes that sweep away all 
the dast that might otherwise get into the eye. The eye- 
brows also keep off the dust. Grooms, and ignorant people 
who have the care of horses, sometimes cut their eyelashes. 
A horse has no hands to rub his eyes with when anythincr 
gets into them, as we have. Eyelashes are therefore even 
more necessary for a horse than for us. This cruel practice 
makes their eyes inflame. The little red piece of flesh at the 
corner of our eyes is much bigi^^er in a horse, and is called a 
' haw,' This haw grows big and inflamed when the eyelashes 
have been cut. The same ignorant people who cut away the 
eyelashes cut the haw too when it becomes inflamed, as they 
do not understand its us3. This piece of flesh in a horse has 
the power of moving over a great part of the eye, and so rubs 
off any dust or hard bits that may get into it. Fancy what 
the poor horse will have to suffer who has been deprived of 
both eyeliujhfs and haw, when he lias to travel over dusty 
roads on a windv dav. 



\^^ SIGHT AND SUNSH.NE. 

Bad air injares the eves of buman beings and all animals 
Little children who live in bad air have a very painful diseass 
of the eves. Stables where horses are kept are often very 
dirty. Out of the dead organic matter v/hich often lies in a 
stable comes a gas called ammonia; this gas makes the eves 
very sore. Dark stables are also very bad for horses. 

I mnst not forget to point ont the six muscles which are 
fastened to the back and sides of the eyeball ; the eye by 
means of these muscles can turn to the right and left, up and 
down, and in other directions. You can see these muscles in 
this model. I have not told you nearly all 1 should like 
to tell yon about the eye. I hope when you are older some 
one will explain the use of this transparent body or humour 
inside, called the crystalline lens, and many other wonderful 
things. I do not think I could explain thera so that you 
would be able to understand them yet. 

Parents and teachers are not aware that children often 
suffer from imperfect %'ision, or are short-sighted. At music 
lessons, or when they have to read what is written on a black- 
hoard, or distinguish the colour of an object, they sometimes 
appear stupid, and are punished for want of attention. Some- 
times, too, they are accused of not speaking the truth when 
they say they did not see something that everyone else saw. 
Instead of scolding and punishing, it would be better to be 
gentle and watch the case, and take the child to a doctor who 
understands the eye. 

The wonderful organs of sight which I have just tried to 
describe to you would be useless unless there was a sun to 
rrive us liofht. In the dark we can see nothings. I am now 
going to mention some more of the wonderful things we owe 
to the Fun. Without the sun we should have neither light, 
heat, the air we breathe, the food we eat, the water we drink, 
nor the coals that burn and make our fires. No animal or 
plant can live without the sun. I will first explain why 
plants must have sunshine. Before I do so, I had better 
remind you that carbonic acid gas is made of oxygen and 
carbon. I told you that the under part of every little leaf is 
covered over with organs called pores, or mouths, through 
which a plant givts off" oxygen gas and takes in the carbonic 



WHAT LIGHT DOES. 169 

acid gas we send out of our mouths, which poisons us and 
all animals. The plant does not like the carbonic acid ga-? 
any more than we do, but it likes the carbon that is in the 
carbonic acid gas. If the sau shines on the leaf, some of the 
rays of the sun separate the carbon from the oxygen, and 
the leaf then sends out all the oxygen it does not want into 
the air for us to breathe, and keeps the carbon for itself to 
help to make the grains of starch or the sugar which pro- 
duce fat when we eat vegetables. All plants, or yegetables, 
which are the same things, die when there is no sun to change 
or separate the carbonic acid gas into oxygen and carbon. 

When human beings live in dark places where the sun 
cannot come, their minds grow weak, and their bodies 
become unhealthy, and they fade like plants. Switzerland is 
a country where the mountains are sometimes so high that 
the valleys, or places that lie between two high mountains, 
get very little sunshine, and the air in them is often very close. 
Some of the Swiss people who live in these deep valleys 
have large swellings in their throats, and they lose their 
senses and become idiots. For a long time doctors could not 
find out why these poor people were so much afflicted in body 
and mind. At last it struck them that these diseases came 
because they had not enough sunshine to purify the air. 
Hospitals were therefore built high up on the mountain sides, 
where plenty of sun could shine upon them and get into the 
rooms. When the idiots and people with swollen throats had 
been in these hospitals for some time, both body and mind 
grew much stronger, and they were able to work like other 
people. 

The Rev. J. H. F. Kendall, of Leeds, told me he once 
suffered from a sore throat for several months ; no medicine 
did him any good. At last it occurred to him that tl)e room 
he always sat in got no sun. He removed into another room 
upon which the sun was constantly shining. In a very short 
time he lost his sore throat. Florence Nightingale, who wont 
out to nurse our poor wounded j^oldiers in the Crimea, found 
that the sick and wounded recovered very quickly on the 
sunny side of the hospital, but a great many of the poor 
fallows died who were obliged to lie on that which had very 



l,Kj SIGHT AND SU-NSHLNE. 

little sun. It is very an wise of people to pull down their 
blinds to ?ave their cnrtains and carpets, and to shut up their 
snnnv sitting-rooms and only use them for grand parties, and 
live in dismal rooms every day that get no sun. No carpets, 
curtains, or furniture can be sweet and wholesome unless the 
sun can get to them. That is the reason why best rooms 
that are only used for parties smell so fusty and disagreeable 
when you go into them. 

I must now explain how it is that the sun gives us the 
water we drink and the air we breathe. This instrument, 
called an 'orrery,' which I have before me, represents our 
earth and the sun. This small round ball is our earth, and 
the large one is the sun. You see, if you look at our earth, 
that there is a great deal more water than land upon it. The 
heat of the sun strikes on to our earth and warms both the 
sea and land. The sun's rays pass into the sea and make the 
top of it very warm, so warm that some of the water is 
turned into vapour. The vapour being light, floats up into 
the air for a very great distance, many, many miles ; some 
of it then becomes cold, and falls down in rain. If the 
rain falls in a very cold country, like Russia, the vapour 
turns into snow and ice, and rests upon the mountains. 
Some of the ice and snow is constantly melting, and the water 
thus formed runs down the mountains in little streams. These 
little streams unite together and make a river. The river 
runs on until it reaches the I'^west level — that is, the sea from 
which it came. There is not \ drop more water on the earth 
or in the sea or the air than when the world was made, 
because the water that is taken up from the sea into the air 
is always falling down again and finding its way back to the 
place it came from. It is therefore said to circulale. 

The rain that comes down in England upon :he moun- 
tains does not often become frozen on their summits, as our 
climate is not a very cold one. Some of the water as it runs 
down the hill-sides gets into the earth and runs on till it 
meets with a piece of clay, which will not let it pass through, 
but holds it as if it was in a basin, and this basin is called a 
well. Well-water is generally very pure water ; but take 



RAIN AND SPRINGS. J 71 

care you never drink water out of a well which is placed near 
a large town, a drain, or a churchyard, for sometimes the 
dead organic matter from the churchyard and the poisonous 
gases get into it. This happened in London at the time of the 
cholera, twenty years ago. The water of a well in Go'den 
Squai-e looked so bright and s{)arkling that the people 
thought it must be very pure water. When Di-. Lankester 
examined it he found a kind of fungus or yeast plant growing 
in it, and a great deal or" dead organic matter that had come 
from the churchyard. It was shown that all the people who 
drank water out of this well suffered from cholera. Whenever 
you have the least feeir that water is not pure, boil it well. 
A filter only cleans the water ; ' it cannot kill any germs. 
Nothing but boiling water will kill them. 

Before I conclude my lecture I will just wind up this 
orrery; it goes by clockwork. Our earth turns quite round 
on its own axis in twenty-four hours. That half of the earth 
which is turned towards the sun will have daylight ; the 
other half which is turned away will be in the dark, and 
therefore it will be night. ♦ 

You also see that our earth moves round the sun. As we 
look into the sky it seems as if the sun moved round the 
earth. We are all taught at school to say that the sun rises 
and the sun sets; but this is an untrue statemep.t, and mis- 
leads children very much. It is the earth we live on that 
may be said to rise and set, because it turns round so as to 
present any given part to the sun, and then from the sun once 
in every twenty-four hours. I was very anxious to bring this 
orrery on purpose to make you understand this fact. 

Things provided for the Ltctiire. 

An orrery. 

Auzoux's papier-m4che model of the eye. 

Questions for the Tiventij-third Lecture. 

1. Dei^cribe all you can remember about the special organ of sight, and 
explain why the eyelishes of a horse ought never to be cut, nor 
that part in the eye called the havr. 



172 SIGHT AND SUNSHINE. 

2. Name some of the complaints that human beings suffer from -who 

live much in phices where very little sunshine can come to them. 
"Wlien Florence Nightingale nursed our poor soldiers in the Cri- 
mean war, wliat happened to the men who lay on that side of the 
hospital where they got scarcely any sun ? 

3. How dots the sun give us the carbon from which thr- fat is made 

that burns in our bodies, and how is ii that the sun's heat helps 
to give u- the water we drink ? 

4. Why is it dangerous to drink water that has been got out of a well 

that is placed in a town, or from a well that is near a churchyard 
or any drains? 



LECTURE XXIV. 

THE VOICE. 



I SHALL begin mj lecture to-daj by describing the beautiful 
little musical instrument or organ bj which the voice is 
made. 

At the top of the windpipe, just at the back of the tongue, 
there is a small box, made chiefly of cartilages and muscles, 
called the larynx. Here is a picture of the larynx. Tt looks 
like a Jew's harp, only that it has two strings instead of one. 
I daresay ycu have noticed that men have a lamp in their 
throats. This lump is called Adam's apple, and it is made by 
this pointed part of the box, which comes to the front of 
the throat. These two strings or cords in the interior of the 
larynx, which go from the front to the back, are called vocal 
cords. 

Men have made a great many different kinds of stringed 
instruments, such as the harp and fiddle. Here is a harp. 
A liarp has a great many cords or strings, and they are all of 
different lengths, and each cord has a different tone or sound. 
I will first strike the longest one; the tone you hear is a low- 
one. Now I will strike the shortest one, and you will hear 
that it makes a high tone. The musical instrument in our 
throats, I told you, has only two strings. The strings are 
both of the same length, and yet we can make almost every 
different tone that a harp or any instrument that has ever been 
made can produce. Don't you think this is very wonderful r 



THE LARYNX. 173 

I will now explain to yoa how we are able to make our two 
strings either short or long. I told yoa that the box, or larynx, 
across which the two vocal cords are placed is made up chiefly 
of muscles and cartilages. Some of these muscles are fastened 
to the cartilages and to the vocal cords, and they can draw 
the vocal cords out and so make them long, or shorten them 
by pulling them in, just in the same way that the cords or 
strings of a harp can be made tight or loo3e by turning these 
screws. When we sing a high note we stretch out our throats 
and hold up our chins ; by that means we help to tighten or 

Fig. 36. 



"h-^^m. 




View of the larynx, as if yon were looking do-mi through the mouth into the windpipe, 
'ihe back of tlie larynx, or musical box, is that ] art marked b : the pointed part comps 
to the front of the throat, and is calli d Adam's apple a. 7 and 6 are two cords called 
the vocal cords ; betwern tho.-:e two cords there is an opening called the glottis f/. It 
is through this hole that the air enters and passes out from the lungs. Tlje muscles 
that are in the larynx make the vocal corels come close together or draw them apart, 
make them loose or tight. 

screw up and shorten the cords. Look at a little bird when 
it is singing high notes, or a cock when it is crowing, and you 
will also see how much they stretch out their throats. A 
Avoman who is singing a high note or scolding some one across 
a room or street does just the same thing. When we speak 
low, we let our chins f\ill ; the cords then become longer, and 
the opening between them is larger. 

When we play on a harp or fiddle we strike the strings 
with our fingers to make them shake or vibrate, and then a 
sound comes from them. What strikes against our vocal 
(•ords ? It is the air, as it comes out of our lungs, that strikes 
against them and makes them shake or vibrate, and cause a 
sound. The air does not make the cords vibrate as it goes 
into the mouth, for while we ao^e taking in air and fillino- our 



174 THE VOICE. 

lungs, our vocal cords are wide apart, and make an opening in 
tlie shape of the letter V. The wide part is at the back of 
the throat. It is impossible to speak or sing properly unless 
there is plenty of air in the lungs to come out and strike 
against the cords. 

Great fear takes away the breath. People who stammer 
!iro nervons. They are afraid they will not be able to speak, 
;iii(l this fear takes away their breath and their presence of 
mind. They either try to speak when their Inngs are empty 
ni- when they are taking in breatli ; then of course they 
stammer, or fail to speak their words as they ought to do. It 
is very necessary that everybody should learn to speak well 
and distinctly, for men and women often want to make a large 
number of people hear what they have to say. It will be 
impossible for them to do so unless they have been taught 
how to pronounce their words well, and where they ought tr» 
take in breath. I have heard men with loud voices speak in 
our town hall, but with all their eflforts only those tolerably 
near could hear them. Shouting will not do ; shouting only 
injures the lungs and gradually the vocal cords. Clergymen 
and teachers often suffer from throat complaints, because they 
were not taught early how to manage their voices. A friend 
of mine, who was the cleverest and kindest teacher I have 
ever known, comjiletely lost her voice because she had thought 
it necessary to speak loudly. For a year she was obliged to 
give up teaching. When her voice returned she came back 
to the school, and ever after spoke in a low tone. She told 
me she found the children could hear her better than they 
used to do, were much more attentive, and the school alto- 
gether was in better order. 

To speak distinctly and with a pleasant voice you must 
know how to pronounce the vowels a, e, i, o, u. For instance, 
do not you think it sounds much better to say ' No, I won't,' 
than ' Na, ar wearnt ' ? To say ' Na, ar wearnt,' you are 
obliged to make an ugly face and an ugly sound, and your 
voice cannot be heard at so great a distance as if you had said 
' No, I" won't.' The last letter of a word, ii it is a consonant, 
ought to be distinctly pronounced. Breath should be taken 
in at all the stops ; and, above all, the reader must not stoop, 



GENTLE SPEECH. 175 

because then the Inngs are squeezed together, and they cannot 
hold all the air that is necessary. Children who live with 
people who are gentle and speak softly, learn to speak softlj 
too. It is true that some voices are sweeter than others ; but 
every voice can be trained to give out pleasant tones. Angry 
tones spoil the dehcate vocal cords, and put them out of tune, 
and by the time a child has grown up their sweetness has 
gouG for ever. 

Mothers have the power of teaching their children to play 
on the most perfect/instrument that has ever been made. No 
instrument invented by man can produce such sweet tones as 
those which come from the human voice ; you will often hear 
people say, after hearing a woman sing, that her voice was 
divine. In a sick room a sweet voice will often soothe suffer- 
ing when no medicines can bring relief. A little infant, who 
cannot understand a word that is spoken, can understand and 
be comforted by the sound of its raotlier's gentle voice. I 
believe the most hardened criminal can only be made to feel 
really sorry for his cruel deeds through the gentle tones of a 
voice that will tell him they come from a heart that is equally 
soft and tender. 

Two or three years since, when I was going over a public 
institution for certified children in this town, I wished to see 
the cell where naughty children were put. When the door 
opened, I saw a poor little deformed hnrap-backed girl of ten. 
I only said two or three words to her, and she burst into tears, 
and cried as if her heart would break. I never felt more 
unhappy than when the key was turned in the lock, and I liad 
to leave this poor little creature to spend the rest of the day 
all alone in a small room which did not even contain a ch:iir. 
It appeared that she had broken a medicine bottle, and had 
denied having done so. The matron said she was a most 
hardened and wicked child ; she had been in the institution 
for three months ; up to that time she had usually spent her 
nights on door-steps! Poor little creature, I thought; after 
all your evil training and hard life, your little heart is 
softer than the matron's. 

A kind heart, gentle manner and voice, are to my mind 
indispensable qualifications in those who undertake the care 



176 THE VOICE. 

and edacalion of young people. Unless a child can dare to Rhow 
its failings and ask questions, it maj appear good and pass 
every standard, but it will go out into the world morally 
weak, possessing nothing worthy of the name of education in 
its trae and highest sense. 

The fiercest animals have been known to grow calm on 
hearing the voice of a person who had been kind to them. 
Horses are so gentle and affectionate that they can be perfectly 
managed if addressed gently. For that reason it is said that 
women ought to take care of them. A groom's work is 
not hard compared with the work that many women have 
to do. 

A great many vertebrate animals have the wonderful little 
instrument in the windpipe called the larynx, which make3 
the voice. It is a most delicate organ, and if the throat is 
forced into an unnatural position, it is soon injured. This is 
easily seen in the case of horses. Some spirited horses 
naturally hold their heads up, and arch their necks. Ladies 
and gentlemen admire horses that do this, and try to make 
their horses do the same by putting on a bearing-rein, which 
fastens the head back. By pressing the head back in this 
way the shape of the larynx is quite altered. Here is a picture 
of the larynx of a horse that had been injured by a bearing- 
rein, and here is one as it ought to be, taken from the 'Illus- 
trated Horse Doctor,' by Mayhew. In this cramped position 
some of the muscles cannot work ; they therefore grow weak, 
and at last die away. The opening between the vocal cords 
grows small, so that a proper quantity of air cannot get down 
into the lungs. But horses have to go quickly, and they 
therefore require all the air they can get, so that whatever 
prevents their getting as much air as possible distresses them 
very much. If you look at a horse that is dragging a cart up 
a hill, you will see that it stretches out its neck, as it does 
aearlv all its work by the help of the muscles in its shoulders. 
A bearing-rein entirely prevents the use of these muscles, and 
must cause great suffering to the horse. From this cruel 
practice of using the bearing-rein, the horse after a time 
breathes very badly, and then it is called a 'roarer.' The 
very people who have caused it so much suffering and have 



THE BEARING-KEIX. 



177 



spoilt it, often sell it to be worked very hard in a tram-car, 
cab, or cart. Surely tbis is not the way to treat a faithful 
servant whom, we have ruined. I am glad to say that carters 
and cabmen very rarely use a bearing-rein. We must hope 
that gentlemen and ladies will soon become equally wise and 
humane. Some coachmen make their horses go by jerking 
the reins continually. This practice, like that of suddenly 
pulling up when they are going at a great speed, hardens tho 
mouth and injures the throat. 

A Fig. 37. 





A is the picture of the larj-nx of a horse in a healthy state, b is the larjiix of a horse 
after it has been drivLn with a bearing-rein. 

I trust that it will soon be considered necessary that all 
those who have the care of children and animals should first 
'understand pliysiology and the laws of health. Rich and 
poor people are now so ignorant about these two subjects, that 
they think any uneducated boy or girl may have the charge 
of a child or dumb animal. 

Things provided for the Lecture. 
Marshall's diagram of the larynx, 
A small toy harp. 

Questions for the Twenty fourth Lecture. 

1. "Write all you can remember about the organ by which the voice is 

made. 

2. Why is it cruel to drive a horse with a bearing-r^in ? 



178 TUE TKEATMENT OF ANIMALS. 

LECTURE XXV. 

THE TEEATMEST OF AXIMALS. 

DrniN'O these lectures you Lave seen that vertebrate animals 
have mdi-y organs similar to those of human beings, and 
therefcrc require very kind treatment and care. 

"When we go next week to the Museum, I will first show 
you tlio animals that have a backbone and a bony skull, 
of which I liave told you there are four great types. First, 
I\lammals, tliose animals which suckle their younjr : then 
bii-ds, next reptiles, and lastly fishes. Between these last two 
stand the smaller group of Amphibia. The elephant is the 
strongest, and perhaps the most intelligent of all known 
animals. You must read all you can about this huge vege- 
tarian, for you will i-emember that he eats nothing but vegetable 
food. If I had time I should like to tell yon a great many 
interesting onccdotes that would prove how clever he is. The 
most wonderful part of an elephant is its trunk; though the 
trur.k only looks like a largo ro"nd pipe of flesh, the clei)hanb 
can with this organ pick up a single blade of gtas.s, pluck 
flowers one by one, and then tie them up into a bouquet, just 
as well as you or I could do, who have two hands and icn 
fingers. It is said that the cleverest nnimals are tliose that 
have the finest sense of touch. The ele[)hant is unlike the 
ciofTf, who fin'gives his enemies. If anyone ofTends him, he will 
not rest: till lie has been revenged. A man once promised an 
elephant that he would give him some beer to drink if he 
would push a heavy load up a hill. When the work was 
done, the man, instead of fulfilling his promise, only laughed. 
Directly the elephant saw this, he killed the man. 

Dogs are the most faithful and affectionate of all animals ; 
they will die sooner than forsake their master ; they are also 
very coui-ageous. A small dog has been known to attack 
a tiger, and make it run awa}'. Yon will find endless inter- 
esting sto:-ies about dogs, horses, and cats in natural history 
books. ^ Cats, too, are very clever and aflectionate. I cannot 

' Seo esp ci.illy a Look called 'Man and Least.' by the Eev. J. G 
Wood. 



CRUELTY TO ANIMALS. 179 

think why people are often so cmel to them. It is thought 
that they only love places and not people, bat this is a great 
mistake. 

All animals were made for some wise purpose, and it is 
intended that they should enjoy life. A great many people 
seem to think that animals were only made for their selfish 
amu.sement. 

I think it very cruel to keep pets ; that is, to shut up 
animals or birds who ought to be constancy moving from 
place to place, just for the pleasure of looking at them occa- 
sionally, or hearing them sing for a few minutes during the day. 

I hope ere long that no person will be allowed to carry 
wild animals all over the country in shows, called travelling 
menageries, that are now to be seen at nearly every feast or 
fair. It is dreadful to think of the sutfcrings these animals 
must undergo from being shut np in small cages ; but this is 
nothing to the tortures they are put through in order to make 
them entirely change their nature, and bear any amount of 
brutjfl tieatmcut. I cannot think how men and women can 
bear to see a woman put her head into, the mouth of a lion 
or tiger ; and to watch poor animals being teased and beaten 
until they are nearly driven mad. "Wo learnt from a sad 
case that was tried in Leeds last ytar, how inhumanly animals 
are tortured before they can be made to bear all I have de- 
scribed, and to jump through rings which are all blazing with 
fire. The animals who were made to do this last horrid feat 
were hyienas belonging to ' Edmonds' travelling menagerie.' 
Surely these performances are almost as disgraceful to the 
spectators as to the performers. Sad to say, little children 
are often taken to see these dreadful sights. 

Bird-catchers have many cruel practices ; amongst others, 
they sometimes put out the eyes of birds in order to inakei 
them sing, and keep hundreds of them packed together in 
tiny cages ju.st big enough to. hold them. Birds are accus- 
tomed to find shade in the woods during the hot part of the 
day ; instead of that you find them placed in caL:CS which are 
hung in windows where the blazing sun shines upon them for 
hours, and they are to be seen panting for air. Pigeon-shoot- 
ing is a most cruel sport. This sport used to be cfirried on 

N 2 



180 THE TREATMENT OF ANIMALS. 

until last year in the Leeds Royal Park, and is still carried on 
in grand places near London. Pigeons are the most domestic 
and affectionate of all birds. People, \vhen speaking of a 
gentle person, often say she is as gentle as a dove (a dove is 
the common wild pigeon). At a pigeon match men stand at 
a certain distance from little boxes, in each of which a pigeon 
is put. When the men who are going to shoot have got 
their gans pointed ready, the boxes are opened, so that the 
pigeons can fly away. Very often they are too tame, and 
will not move. In order to make them fly the feathers are 
plucked from the breast, so that the pain they will then suffer 
may make them fly. Pins are stuck into them for the 
same purpose. On September 22, ]874, my brother-in- 
law, ]\Ir. George Buckton, saw the following case : 
' On the 22nd ult., about five o'clock in the afternoon, 
Mr. George Buckton, North Hill, was in his garden near 
the gates of Roundhay Park, when he heard an explo- 
sion, and looking around he saw a pigeon flying over the 
garden, and noticed flashes of light proceeding from its* tail, 
and simultaneously Eiccompanied by a loud crack. It then 
strnck him that fireworks were attached to the bird's tail, 
and lookinir over the garden wall he saw the two defendants, 
Elijah Walls and John Hunt. He and his gardener followed 
them, and the defendants were apprehended at the gates of 
Roundhay Park. In a box which they carried were found 
two pigeons with crackers tied to their tails. The two 
defendants, who were boys, stated that the other defendants. 
Walls and Heaton, had asked them to let off the pigeons at 
five minutes' intervals. Inspector Peet was communicated 
with, and found all the defendants together. The elder 
defendants expressed sorrow for what they had done, and 
were each fined 5s. and costs. The younger defendants were 
dismissed with a caution.' 

A lady friend of mine who lives close to the Royal Park, 
after hearing a constant firing for two or three hours, put on 
her bonnet and went out to get away from this unpleasant 
noise, as she knew that at every shot a poor little pigeon was 
either being killed or injured. She met a man coming out 
of the park, and asked him how many pigeons had been 



CRUELTY TO AXIMALS. 



181 



sliot ; he thought about 300. ' What is done with them all ? ' 
she said. ' I'll show jou,' he replied ; and putting his hand 
into his pocket he pnlled out two pigeons which, were half 
alive ; his pockets were fall, and no doubt the rest were in 
the same state. No man can call this sport ; it is only cruelty 
and butchery. 

Rabbit-hunting is equally a very cruel and unmanly 
amusement. Rabbits are naturally very timid creatures. 
They are kept in a dark place until the minute they arc 
wanted, and then let loose into a small space, with dogs 
ready to fly after them. The light so dazzles them that they 
are caught directly, and torn to pieces. 

Birds are of the greatest use to man. They eat insects 
and the eggs and grubs of insects which injure our fruit trees, 
kill our crops of wheat, barley, and oats, the vine, and other 
plants. In an exhibition in the garden of the Tuileries in 

Fig. 38. 




Invertebrate, a is the heart, h the lungs or gillsj b and <• arteries. 

Paris I saw last summer a large collection of stuffed birds in 
glass cases, with a bit of the tree that they kept healthy 
fastened round their necks. The insects and eggs that they 
killed were also shown. 

Sen-o-nlls are birds that live in the holes of rocks by the 
sea. They often save ships from being shipwrecked because 
sailors can hear their screams when the fog is too thick for 
them to see even the light from a lighthoupo. A few years 
ago it was the custom to shoot great numbers of ihc^c biids 
to trim ladies' hats with ; but so many shipwrecks occurred, 



182 THE TREATMENT OF ANIMALS. 

that a lavr was made to forbid their being killed at certain 
times. 

So far I have only told you about animals which have a 
backbone and a bony skull, called vertebrate animals. I am 
now going to tell you a little about the fonr types of animals 
that have neither a backbone nor a bony skull, called Inver- 
tebrate. Here are pictures of them, represented by a lobster 
an oj'ster, a starfish, and an amoeba. 

First there is the lobster ; yon. see it has neither a back- 
bone nor a bony fckull. It has a great many legs that are all 
jointed. 

A bee has the same kind of body and legs. All 
insects — such as the bee, butteifly, cockchafer, giasshoppcr, 

Tig. 39. 




All Insect. 

or flea — are made in the same way, and are called jointed ani- 
mals, as they have a number of joints. We owe a great deal 
to insects. For instance, there is the honey we get from bees. 
All poor people who live in the country ought to keep bee- 
hives. In an answer which T received from one of you it was 
said that only animals which have a backbone and a bony 
skull had nerves and could feel pain. This picture (fig. 89) 
will show 3'ou that even an insect has nerves which spread all 
over its body, so that it must be capable of feeling pain. 

Here is the picture of an oyster, which represents the 
second type of animals without a backbone and a bony 
sknll. Thty have soft bodies, nerves, and several organs. 



IN'VEETEDRATE A^'I1IALS. 



183 



Their bodies are commonly covered with shells that are either 
divided into two parts, like thos3 of an oyster and a cockle, 
or with shells that are all in one, like a peT-iwinkle. 

I shall now say something to you about the wonderful 
little animals that belong to the two lowest types. You see 
this picture of a creature that looks like a star. It is called a 




starfish. There are a great many diflerent kinds, which havo 
most curious shapes and colours. They are found both in 
fresh and salt water. If you ever go to 
Blackpool you can see plenty of them. Besides 
the starfish there are other kinds of very small 
animals, called zoophytes. Creatures of this 
type Lave only one organ, a stomach, placed 
in the centre. Sometimes there are little holes 
or rooms all round this stomach. The walls 
of these little rooms are made of a stony sub- 
stance by the little jelly-fish. Sometimes 
these creatures live together in great numbers, and form them- 
selves into most curious and beautifal shapec-, like the branches 
of trees. When you go with me to the Museum I will 
show you a beautifal collection of jijlass representations of 




Stirflsh. 



184 LHE TREATMENT OF ANIMALS. 

them. Their stems are made of coral or lime, or of some 
horny matter. There are large coral islands in the Pacific 
Ocean that have been made during tens of thousands of 
years Y>j these little animals. The red coral beads that are 
made into necklaces are made by another kind of jelly-fish or 
zoophyte. 

One of the lowest types of life is the amoeba — our old 
friend that I showed you at my second lecture, and which I 
told you was one of the most simple forms of life. It has no 
organs, but can put out an arm-like or a leg-like process when 
it wants to seize food or move along. Here is a picture of an 
amoeba putting out its limb-like process (fig. 42). Some of 
this kind are so very small that they can only be seen through 
a microscope, and are covered over with a beautiful little sheD 
that is either made of lime or chalk. They have a long name 
— Foraminifera. They, like the animals which make the coral 
islands, live together in large colonies, and after tens of 
thousands of years their shells have grown up into rocks or 
cliffs. The white cliffs of Dover Jiave been made by these 
little creatures. The sponge we use to wash ourselves with is 
made by a kind of amceba. Here is a piece.' They, too, live 
together in large numbers, and when they die their frames — 
which are made of this spongy substance — are left. These 
holes in the sponge are the places the animals live in. There 
are a great many different kinds of sponges, which you will 
see on Tuesday. Even the amoeba must have some sort of 
feeling, as is shown by the way in which it catches its prey. 
Directly any organic substance touches it, the mass of jelly 
called an amceba spreads itself over the object, and covers it 
entirely over, and so takes it into its inside. After a little 
time a small part of the food that the amoeba could not digest 
is squeezed through the jelly, and comes out perhaps tlirougb 
the side opposite to the one it entered. 

I hope, after all I have told you, you will be able to writ© 
answers to the questions which I shall give you at the end of 
this lecture. I am anxious to tell you on what part of its 
body an animal ought to be struck when it is necessary that 
it should be slaughtered. No animal can live when its neck 

' I sliowed a large piece of sponge. 



INVEKIEBRATE ANIMALS. 



185 



is broken. The limbs sometimes move, but the animal is quite 
unconscious. 

Ignorant people will always be superstitious — that is, 
believe any silly thing that they hear. A gentleman not long 
ago saw a crowd of people on Hounslosv Heath collected 
round a snake which two men were beating. He asked them 
why they did not kill the poor creature at once. ' We are 
snake-killers,' they said, ' and know all about it ; it would be 
no use to try and kill a snake before the sun goes down.' 'Give 
me the stick,' said the gentleman, 'and I will show you that 
the sun has nothing to do with it.' With this he hit the snako 

Fig. 42. 




a hard blow on the back of its neck, just where the head joins 
the spine. The body of the snake continued to wriggle about ; 
and thouo^h the prentleman knew tha!: the animal could no 
longer feel, and would soon cease to move, still, to satisfy the 
crowd, he struck the snake all down the spine ; after doing 
this it was still, and they were satisfied that it was dead. 

It is dreadful to think of the cruelty that goes on in 
slauerhter-housf^s. Some butchers think it is unnece?sarv to 
give food and drink to animals who are going to be killed in a 
day or two, or to keep them in clean stables. We pay very 
dearly for this cruelty, because the meat of animals so treated 
is not good. Inrnorance and cruelty are very extravagant 
things. I do not wonder people become vegetarians wlien 
they know all that animals have to endure from long journeys 
and brutal drovers, before they are slaughtered by ignorant 
and cruel butchers, or their laua. 



18G THE TREATMENT Ot ANIMALS. 

Yon ranst read all the books yon can find on nataral 
bistoiy. 1 have written down the names pf sorae, wliicli jour 
masters and mistresses will lend yon. When yonr pnrents 
have a holiday, I hope they will often take yon to the ^luseum, 
for then yon will be able to tell them all yon know about the 
collection of animals you will see there. I am very sorry to 
say good-bye to you, for yon have all been so poUte and atten- 
tive that I have looked forward with great pleasure to seeing 
yon every week. In a few years yon will all be gaining your 
livelihood in different ways — as laboarers and artitjans, 
teafdiers, nurses, cooks, grooms, butchers, and emigrants; and 
some of you may become ricli men, and become masters your- 
selves. Whatever your calling in life may be, I hope the 
information you have gained during the last five months may 
prove valuable to you. I have desired above all things to 
prove to you that, owing to our ignorance, we bring upon 
our.selves and tho.-e about us a great deal of the sicknes;^, 
sorrow, and suflTering which spoil this beautiful world. It is 
therefore our first duty to study and understand the laws of 
God, to obey them, and to be just, kind, and humane to all 
He has created, especially to young children and dumb ani- 
mals, who are weak and defenceless, and depend upon us for 
protection and care. 



APPENDICES. 



ArrEXDix I. 

The contents of this Appendix were printed in tlie form of a little 
tract, a copy of wliicli was given to every scholar who attended mj 
If-ctiirea. My hearers were thus enabled to recall some of the facts on 
which I had laid special stress. 

The iuformation here jriven will be found in an expanded form in 
the lectures which treat of food and cookini^ ; but the tract is reprinted 
in the hope that it may suprg^est to any ladies who may undertake the 
same work a simple method of communicating" important knowledge. 
I may add that the tract was g-ratefully received, and those who were 
not present eag^erly sent to fisk me for copies. 

FOOD TABLE. 
A human body which weighs 15-4 lbs.,, or 11 stoaes, ought to 
have about — 

111 lbs. of v.iiter — 90 lbs. of this water is oxygen, the rest is hydro- 
gen. 
1 2 lbs. of fat (body-warmer). 
24^ lbs. of albumen and fibrin (flesh-formers). 
6| lbs. of phosphate of lime. 
S lb. of i-oda, potash, and magnesia ashes. 

Oxygen is the chief means by which the food we eat is changed 
into at least 40 different substances to nourish our ditierent organs. 
"When we are in health the active parts of the.<«e organs ought to be 
completely changed in about 40 days. AVhen oxygen meets with 
carbon in any one of the 40 substances mentioned, and combines with 
it in the body, heat is for;ued. Oxyg-en purifies the blood. 



DOr)Y-\VAUMEl;S 


FI.E.SII-FOI1JIEI1S 


Animal 


Vegetable 


Animal 


Vegetable 


I^itter 

Dripping 

Suet 

Oil 

Lard 


vS.igar 

Treu.le 

Starch, in TJre.nd 

and all Vege- 

tibles 
Oil 


]-i>h 

I'diiltry 

Tiaiwe 

K-gs 

Chouse 


Flour 
Oatmeal 
Rice 
IVis 
Barlev, &c. 



188 APPENDIX I. 

The foljowiug salts and many others are found in the hlood 
therefore food must be eaten that contains them : — 

Common Salt Carbonate of Potash Salts of Mngnesia 

Carbonate of Soda ,. Lime Phosphate of Iron 

Phosphate of Lime. 

Bread contains a great deal of this latter salt. 

Potash prevents scurvy. It is in all fresh vegetables, most in 
potatoes ; in all fruit, most in lemons. 

New milk is a body-warmer and a flesh-former, and contains every- 
thing the body requires. Digests in two hours. 

There are contained in one pint of — 

Cr.ws ^nlk. Mothers MUk. 

Water 1.3 oz. 14 oz. 

Flesh-former . . . . . | ,, less. 

Body- warmer . . . • H » more. 

Phosphate of Lime. 

Potash, and other \ . . . \ „ same. 

Salts . 

The t-wo principal vegetable flesh-formers are bread and oatmeal. 

Time to digest. 
Hours. 

3^ 2 lbs. of bread cost ofZ., and contain 3 oz. flesh-former, 1 lb. 

4.^ oz. body -warmer. ^ oz. ashes. 8 oz. water. 
Z\ 2 lbs, of oatmeal cost 6(/., and contain 4 oz. flesh-former, 24 oz. 

bod}'- warmer, ^ oz. ashes, 3 oz. water (uncooked). 

Tlie principal animal flesh-formers are beef, mutton, and rich 
cheese. 

Time to digest. 
Uoure. 
3^ 2 lbs. of beef or mutton cost Is. \0d.. and cont;iin 7 oz. of flesh- 
former, 4^ oz. of boily-warmer, \ oz. ashes, 20 oz. water. 
Component parts of rich Cheddar cheese, in 2 lbs. — flesh-former, 9^ 
oz. ; fat, 9 J oz. ; ashes, 1 i oz, ; water, ^ oz. 

Flour, oatmeal, ground rice, ground peas — 1 lb. of any oneof these 
\egetable flesh-formers will give a man as much strenprth as 3 lbs. of 
lean beef, or 3 lbs. of veal, or 3 lbs. of ham boiled, or nine bottles of 
Bass's pale ale, or six bottles of Guinness's stout, ]0r/. per tottle. 
There is al.^o as much nourishment in 1 lb. of double Gloucester cheese 
as there is in the above quantities of animal food and diink. 

A full-grown man requires daily 10 oz. of body- warmers and 5 oz. 
of flesh-formers. AVater and ashes are not included in these quanti- 
ties. These lb oz. of solid food can be got either from animal or 
vegetable food. But some vegetables contain a smaller proportion of 



FOODS. 



189 



solid matter, because 
fore eat more of them 
we eat dry food, such 
liquid, as tea or milk, 
and feed them on dry 
ought to give them { 
the fields. 

The following list 
and vegetable foods :- 



thev have so much more water ; we must there- 
, They digest more slowly than meat. When 
as bread, oatmeal, Sec, we require to take some 
Masters, when they shut up dumb animals 
food, such as linseed, rapeseed, lentils, &c., 
I larger quantity of water than they have in 

will show how much water there is in animal 



(Sixteen ounces make one pound.) 



^^ 


OS-B 


O J3 




Co'taixs of 




£ c 
















■^ fe 










5 2 




^^ 


Body-warmers 


Flesh-formers 


Water 


Ashes 


1 3i 


Bread . . . 


2W. 


about 10 oz. 


about 2 oz. 


about 4 oz. 


about i oz. 


* 


Meat . 






11</. 


3 „ 


,. 3 „ 


.. 10 „ 


j» i !> 


34 


Cheese . 






lid. 


4i.. 


„ 5i„ 


„ -H „ 


). i .1 


2 


illLK . 








H „ 




„ 14 „ 




1 ' 


EcfiS 
Bl-tfeu 
Sl-kt . 
DRn-PixG 
Oius . . 
Lard . 








li-, 


.• 2i „ 

None 
A trace 
Kone 


,, 12 ., 
„ 2 „ 
,. 2 „ 
„ 2 „ 
„ 2 „ 
„ 2 „ 


i 




Loaf Sugar 










,, 2 „ 




1 


Arrowroot 






„ 14 „ 




„ 2 „ 


__ i 



DRY FOODS. 
(Grains, Seeds, &c.) 



^Tieat 

Oats 

Peas 



Eice 

Semolina (costs 8d. per lb.) 

Macaroni „ Sd. ,. 



In one pound of these there are about 

H oz. of wnter. 
12 oz. fat-formers. 
2 to 3 oz. flesh-formers. 
J oz. h;dis and minerals. 

Chiefly given to feed Dumb Animals. 

Linseed Grass 

Rapeseed Lentils 

Clover. 



The last is the most nutritious of all grains. It is ground, and 
sold under the name of Ilevalenta Arabica. Unground, it is vei^ good 
put into soups. 



190 APPENDIX 1. 



WET FOODS. 
(All Green Vegetables and Fruits.) 

Potatoes I Rhul.arb 

Turnips I Apples 

Carrots I ran ires 

Onions Goo.seberriP8 

Lettuce and all kinds [ Currants, &c. 

of Sabid 1 Lemons. 

Li one pound there are about 

12 oz. to 1-i oz. of -water. 

2 oz. fat-formers. 

1 oz. flesh formers. 

^ oz. salts and minerals. 

Macaroni and semolina are most nourishing foods. They are both 
cliiedy made from that part of wheat \\-hich makes flesh, muscle, and 
bone. A tahlespoonful of semolina will thicken a pint of milk: it 
makes a delicious puddinir. One ounce of macaroni will make a good 
pudding when boiled in milk. When boiled in water, it is very good 
with clieese, grated or scraped fine over the top, and browned either 
be 'ore the fire or in the oven, with pepper and salt. Eice and maca- 
roni can be eaten ^\'ith meat, gi*avy, or with sweets, such as treack; 
i?ii'r!ir, S:c. Cook them exactly as you would cook a potato or any 
fresh vegetable ; put them into boiling water, and let them simmer 
until quite tender. Don't boil any kind of food. Simmering takes a 
longer time to make the food tender, but when it is done all the good 
things will have l)een kept in it. Never wash macaroni. Corn-flour, 
like arrowroot, is very poor food, particularly for children, as it makes 
very little bone and muscle, and only malces fat. 

T]ie stomach digests a variety of food better than only one kind. 
Nature intended us to mix foods together ; that is the reason we eat — 

Vcgctahle Food. Animal Food. 
Bread . . . \rith . . . Cheese 
Bread . .• . „ ... Butter 

Bread Milk 

Potatoes ... ,. ... Meat 

Tliere is very little fat in fowls, therefore we eat bacon with them. 
There is very little fat in veal, therefore we eat ham with it. Salt 
meat has had the juices and ashes taken out by the salt, therefore we 
must eat cabbages and bacon, or potatoes and bacon together. 

People ea,t a great deal of animal fat in cold countries, because 
vVy want heat. There is more oxygen in cold air than in hot air tc 



FOODS. 



191 



attack the carbon. In hot countries veg-etable lats are more used. 
There is much more Hydrogen and Oxygen in vegetable than in 
animal lats, and therefore they are more easily digested. Fruit con- 
tains a great deal of sugar and water. We perspire more in hot 
countries and hot weather, so require more water. 

A child's digestion is more delicate than that of a grouTi-up 
person ; therefore children like vegetable fat-^brraers, such as sugar or 
treacle, better than animal fat, and they are better for them. Sugar 
also helps to dissolve the ashes that make bone, and purities the blcod. 

Hot food is more digestible than cold. 

A great quantity of hot liquids taken daily, particularly of tea, 
is bad for the process of digestion, and tends greatly to weaken the 
power of the stomach. 

In one pound of either tea, coffee, cocoa or chocolate (which are 
both the same thing, as they come from the same berry), are to be 
found the followiuy: substances : — 



Tea. 





oz. 


GnAixs, 




oz. 


GRAINS 


Water 


. 


3oO 


Sugar 


. 


211 


Theine 


. 


210 


Rit 


. 


2S0 


Ciu^nne . 


2 


175 


Tannic ;icid 


. 4 


87 


iArom;iLic oil 


. 


52 


"WuOily libre 


. 3 


87 


Qura . 


. 2 


38J 


Mineral matter 


. 


850 



CoFfTE. 





oz. 


GRAPCS. 




oz. 


GnALS-S. 


Water 


1 


407 


Caffeic acid (with 


pot- 




Sugar 


1 


17 


ash) . 


. 


280 


Fat 


1 


402 


Gum 


1 


192 


Casfino . 


2 


35 


Woody fibre . 


. 5 


262 


Catteir.e, or theine 


G 


122 


Saline matter . 


. 1 


31 


Aromatic oil 





Cocoa, ou 


Chocolate, 








oz. 


OnAIN'S. 




oz. 


GRAIN'S. 


Water 


. 


350 


Starch 


. 1 


c3 


All)umen or glutf n 


:) 


85 


Wo(xly fibre 


. 


280 


Theobromine 


1 


140 


C(jl(mririg matter 


. 


HO 


CiiCoa-buLtcr 


8 





Mineral matter . 





280 


Gum 


. 


^CfS 









192 APPENDIX I, 



rOODS MOST SUITABLE TOR HEALTH. 
Our Body- Warmers 
Are butter, dripping, suet, any kind of oil or fat, and also sugar and 
starch. 

If you lived on these alone, you would be pined. 

Our Flesh-Formers 

Are bread, oatmeal, and all kinds of flour, eggs, cheese, and meat. 

If you lived entirely on these foods, you would have scurvj' and 
skin diseases. 

Oatmeal requires to be very well cooked. Cooks as a rule do not 
give it a sutHcient time. Porridge is best made of the coarsely-ground 
Scotch oatmeal. — Mix two tablespoonfuls of it with a small tea-cup of 
cold water till it is all one thickness, then pour a pint of boiling 
water, and keep stirring it frequently for forty minutes over a fire or 
on a hot hob ; it is then lit to eat, but will be much more digestible if 
it is kept simmering for a much longer time. Should the porridge 
become toj thick a little water can be added. It should be served in 
a hot soup-plate and milk added. This is the most noimshing food a 
man or child can eat. In some parts of Scotland the people eat a 
preparation of oatmeal called brose or stirabout. Boiling water is 
poured upon the oatmeal, which is well stirred, and then eaten without 
any more cooking. This is a most indigestible food, and causes a com- 
plaint called pyrosis. 

Potash will prevent our having Scurvy. 

The potash bought at a druggist's shop won't serve. You must 
eat food in which it is contained. All green vegetables have a little ; 
also ripe fruit, oranges and lemons particularly. Potatoes and all 
floury vegetables are nearly all starch ; therefore, let the water be 
boiling when you put them in the pan, then the skin hardens directly, 
and all the potash is kept in. Dried grains, such as split peas, &c., 
must be soaked in cold water (rice in milk) for several hours. 

Li7}ie and Phosphorus. 

These two substances, which form the hard part of our bones, are 
to be found in the largest quantities in bread and oatmeal. No doctor 
or druggist can give you these mixed as nature mixes them in these 
two kinds of food. 

An infant cannot digest bread until it has cut its teeth. 



FOODS. 193 

Milk 

Is tbe only out food that contains all the forty things that can 
nouiish the body. It is the only safe food for an infant until it is 
a year old. Every child ought to take a great deal of it daily, in 
puddings, with porridge at breakfast, and at tea-time, until it is eight 
years old, or it will be in danger of having rickets or soft bones, for 
the bones are not hard under that age. An infant fed on cream, 
which is fat, would be pined; for it is only a body-warmer. 
Sldmmed milk is also a flesh-former. New milk is both a bodv-warmer 
and a flesh-fonner. Xew milk from a cow or goat is the only proper 
Ibod for an inlimt until it is about eight months old, when it cannot 
£iave its mother's milk. Th« milk must be warmed, and a little wate? 
iidded should it prove too rich for the stomach. 

Nouiishing Soup fur Children and Working-Men. 

Soup is good food for old and yoimg; first, because it is a warm 
dish, and secondly, because it can be made to contain the 
three kinds of food we must eat to nourish oiu- bodies, viz., bodv- 
warmers, flesh-formers, and minemls. An immense number of soups 
cau be made of animal and vegetable food without butcher's meat. 
Di-ipping, bacon, milk, or eggs will do as well, as they are all animal 
t<Kids. The first of the following receipts will make a good soup for 
children and worldng-men ; it is made wnth bufcher's me&t. The 
second is also most nourishing ; it ha^J no butcher's meat. 

IiRST Receipt. — Some meat (beef is best) should be cut into 
pieces and stewed for two hours. Then add to the meat and broth 
flour of any kind to thicken it, and put as much milk as you can. Let 
it stew for an hour, and flavour with salt. 

Second Receipt. (Soup w-ithout butcher's meat.) — 1 quart of 
water ; ^ gill of green peas or split peas (the latter take much longer 
to cook) ; two potatoes, old ones of yesterday are the best ; 1 onion ; 
1 head of lettuce ; 1 sprig of mint ; 4 teaspoonful of sugar (sugar keeps 
the colour of the peas and vegetables) ; 1 oz. of dripping ; 1 table- 
^poonful of either flour or oatmeal ; pepper and salt to taste. When 
it has simmered until all is quite tender, add ^ gill of milk. If this 
soup is made wdth green peas or any fresh vegetables, it will be quite 
ready in half-an-hour. 

Soyer, the ".elebrared c-ook, almost alw%'iys used brown sugar and 9 
little vinegar in making his soup. Soup is a most economical food 
«nd digestible if bread is eaten with it. 

When we make soup or beef-tea, we want to get all the juices and 
ashes out in the water ; therefore cut the meat up into small pieces, 
fad put a little salt on it, and let it stand in cold water one hour or 
i;.ore. Don't let it quite boil, only simmer, for the steam carries off 

o 



194 APPENDIX 1. 

the lifivours aud juices. An equal weight of meat and water makes 
verv strong' l>ee 1-1 ea. A person led on the stronrrest beef- tea, or on 
any hind of extracts or essence of meat, \vould soon be pined to death ; 
tJ:ey only form llesh. Flour, rice, pearl bai'ley, cream, eg-jrs, or new 
mi.k ouirht to be added. 

A\'hen we roast meat we want to keep in all its juices, therefore 
we must harden the outside shin by placinj^ the joint near a hot fire 
for the first ten minutes, then it ought to be roasted \ery gradually by 
removing it to a much «2Teater distance, as meat quickly cooked is never 
good. When meat is baked, there ought to bo a ventilator in the oven 
to let out the steam. 

To keep the juices in boiled meat, place it in boiling water for ten 
minutr'S. and thou cook it very gratlually. 

If meat cannot be got, cheese is as nourishing for people who work 
hird or tike much exei'cise, and, if well masticated, is not dillicult to 
digest, as some people think it is. 

T:ille of Uic Conatitacnts (<f the Juices of Flesh. 



Albiunpn | Jlutyric ncid 

C;iSfirio I Coninioii salt 

vS.ircino I Kod colouring matter 

Lactic acid . S dts 



!More potnsh than socta 
OsmaJiome. flavouring 
matter 



The Patent Xorwcgian Self-act'mr) Coohlng Apparatits. 

The following are the directions for the use of the Patent Nor- 
wegian Self-acting Cooking Apparatus: — Put the joint of meat, or 
other viands intended to be cooketl, with the boiling water or other 
llnid, 3LS the case may be, into the saucepan of the Apparatus, and 
place it on the (ire. Allow the boiling to continue for a quarter to 
half an hour, taking care that the Kd of the saucepan is firmly down ; 
then take the saucepan oil" the tire and put it, M-ithout opening it, 
into the Appanitu.s. Cover it carefully with the cushion, and fasten 
the lid of the c;Lse lirmly down. In this state the cooking will com- 
plete itself in rather longer time than the i)rdinary mode takes, say 
from .3 to G hours accordhuf 1o ihe vicat to be cooked. 

The time required lor boilin^r must not be reckoned from the 
moment the liquid bo'rins to simmer, but from the time strong jets of 
stea-.ij are seen escaping from underneath the lid. 

Care must be tiken not to squeeze too large a piece of meiit into a 
;mall saucepan, thereby leaving too little space for the necessary cold 
water, and not to use a large sau.cepan for a small quantity of food. 
J he saucepan should never be less than two-thirds tilled either with 
food or water. 



SELF-ACTING COOKING APPARATUS. 



195 



If an Apparatus with two saucepans be used, it may at any timo 
b8 opened while cooking is going on iu one pan, to add another with 
hoiled-up water or food, but the box must not be left open for moro 
than a minute or two. 

If required to cook in one saucepan only, and the apparatus holds 
two or more, till the saucepans not in use with boiling «ater. 

The bottom of the saucepan should be greased before being put on 
the lire, and wiped with a cloth previously to being placed in the 
Apparatus. 

X.B. — The food must be cooked in the pans belonging to the 
Apparatus, and when used for boiling, the water is not to be poured 
away when the pan is taken otf the Ike. 




When it is dgsired to keep meat or other food, which has been 
previously cooked, hot, u?b one of the saucepans fitted with a jacket, 
which should be lilled with boiling water, and the dry chamber of the 
Apparatus used for the hot meat. Any kind of viands may be kept 
hot for hours in this manner, and when eaten will be found quite as 
palatable as if only just cut from the joint. 



now TO DEESS A SCALD OR BURX. 



Everylx)dy should know how to manage a scald or a burn. Doctors 
8ay that the most distressing cases that are brought 1o an infirmary 
are those caused by scalds and burns, because the parents have not 
unleratood how to treat them. I once called at a house where a little 
girl h.id burnt her arm. The mother showed me the place, and toreott' 
the linen rag, saying, It ought to be better, for I wash it regular 
twice a dav.' 



196 APPENDIX r. 

The air must be kept out instantly, as the germs that fly in the air 
will settle in the raw surface. Cover the place all over with a piece 
of linen rag- that has been dipped in any sweet oil, or melted fat that 
has no salt in it ; then wrap it up with a good deal of cotton wool, or 
a piece o'^ old blanket ; don't remove these for seven davs, as a new 
skin will form in that time, and then dress again in the same way. 
If the skin is not broken and there is no blister, you may put on cold 
bandages or place the limb in cold water, and so keep out the air. 
The great thing is to keep out the air and not to break the skin. If 
the scald or burn is a bad one, send immediately for a doctor. 

HOW TO TREAT A PERSOX APrAREXTLY DPOWXED 

The first thing is to try and bring back the breathing by turning the 
fr.ce down for a moment, so that the water may run out and the tongue 
fall into its place. Draw out the tongue as far as possible, and keep it 
out b}' tying a string over it and round the jaw. If no string is at 
hand, a piece torn off a pocket-handkerchief will answer the purpose. 
If the tongue falls back, it covers the windpipe through which the air 
passes to the lungs. When the tongue is safe, you may place the 
person on his back ; take care the shoulders and head are raised a little. 
Lift the arms up from the side and pass them down again, to open the 
chest, drawing them well up by the side of the bead and pressing them 
forcibly against the chest when you. bring them down. "When the 
breathing has returned, dry clothes and warm things can be put on. 
Plentv of fresh air must get into the lungs ; bad close air thickens the 
blood and prevents it from circulating. People must not crowd round 
tlio patient. It is dangerous to use great heat suddenly, such as a hot 
bath. Pubbing and warmth should be continued for two hom-s at least. 

DIPECTIOXS FOP BATIIIXg'. 

If people are strong enough, a cold bath should be taken every day 
\vhen the weather is warm. "When the cold water touches the surface 
of the body the shock drives the blood to the heart, and makes the 
heart beat quicker, and send the warm blood back to the surface of 
the body. I told you that there were an immense niunber of blood- 
vessels and nerves in the second skin; the warm, fresh blood flushes 
and stimulates these, and this is why we feel a glow all over the body 
after a bath, and are stronger and fresher. If a cold wet sponge <.t 
towel is rubbeJ all over the body, and then the skin is made perfectly- 
dry bv using a rouirh, dry towel, the same good will be done as if the 
person had taken a cold bath. It is very unhealthy to allow tne body 
to remain the least damp. Before a person takes a regular bath 
he must be careful not to enter the water directly after a meal, 
because the crgans of digestion are then busy, and want all the waim 



HINTS F<)R EMERGENCIES. 197 

blood to help them to do their work. That is why the surface of the 
body feels cold after dinner. It is dangerous to eater the sea or auy 
bath when the person is cold and tii-ed. About two hours after a 
meal is a good time, and when a short walk has increased the heat 
of the lx)dy. Mr. AVheelhouse tells me that there is a popular belief 
that it is bad to enter the water when the body is warm or perspir- 
ing-, but in truth there is no harm ia doing this. The real danger anses 
from waiting until the glow has passed, and entering the water when 
the body has already begun to cool. Very much depends on the length 
of time that is spent in the water. To some pei-sons three minutes is 
suilicieat time, and if they can swim, ten minutes may be taken. When 
the body is warm and all in a glow en coming out of the water, you 
may be sure that the bath has done no harm, but good. On the other 
hand, those who feel cold and shivering after a cold bath are advised 
to take tepid baths in preference. Little children are often forced into 
the water ia a state of great teiTor. If those who have the care of 
them are sensible and patient, they can make them enjoy their bath ; 
and unless they do enjoy it, they will be injured instead of benefited, 
for fear, as I have told you, chills them, and weakens instead of 
strengthening the nerves. A friend of mine, who is now an elderly 
lady, was Iwtbed by her father when she was five years old, and from 
that time to this she has been afflicted with a dilliculty in speaking. 

DISIXFECTAXTS. 

Next to fresh air, the best and cheapest disinfectant is perman- 
ganate of potash. A packet that makes twenty gallons can be bought 
for a shilling of any druggist, A teaspoontul is to be mixed with two 
gallons of water. You can wash the body with it safely, as well as 
furniture, clothes, and floors. 

The air in a bedroom where there is fever is full of poisonous 
germs. Open the window at the top, or break a hole in the top pane 
of glass. This will let in the fresh air. A pound of fresh air con- 
tains about a quarter of a pound of oxygen ; and the oxygen will burn 
up the poisonous matters in the air. 

After a fever or any infectious complaint, all articles of bedding 
can be purihed free of any expense. If a post-card be sent to the 
Inspector of Nuisances, whose salary is paid out of the rates, he will 
Immediately send for the above articles and place them in the hot-air 
apparatus, which will kill all germs of disease. 



198 APPENDIX II. 



APPEXDIX 11. 

BOOKS. 

As I am often asked bv ladies to mention the "books wkich I found 
useful in the preparation of my lecitires, I append a list of those which 
proved most valuahle to me. The list does not profess to be complete, 
but it mav serve lo suggest sources of information to others -who are 
desirous of working- in the same held, 

' Animal Physiology,' by Dr. "W. B. Carpenter. 
'Physiology of Common Life,' by G. II. Lewes. 

• Elementary PhysiologA',' by T. II. Iltixley 
'Pliysiology for Practical Use/ edited l-y James Ilinton. 
'Philosophy of Health,' by Dr. Southwood Smith. 

' Heat Considered as a Mode cf Morion.' by Prof TyndalL 

' A Handy Book on Health/ by C. A. Cameron, M.D. 

' Public Health/ by Dr. Guy. 

' Health.' by Dr. E. Smith. 

'Practical Dietary for Fjtniilies, &c./ by Dr. E. Smith. 

' Foods/ by Dr. E. Smith. 

' Food/ by Dr. Lankester. 

' Food/ by Dr. Letheby. 

' Air and Rain,' by Dr. Angus Smith. 

• The Chemistry of Common Life/ by Prof. Johnston. 

• How Crops Grow,' by S. W. Johnson. 

' Management of Infancy,' by Andrew Combe. 

' Every-Day Wonders,' by Anne Bulhir. 

' Notes on Nursing,' by Florence Nightingale. 

• Dust and Disease,' by Prof. Tyndall. 
' Yeast,' a Lecture, by Prof. Huxley. 
'French Home Life.' 

' Illustrated Horse Doctor,' by !Mayhew. 

' Horse Management,' by Mayhew. 

' Shoeing/ by G. Fleming. 

'Healthy Skin.' by Erasmus AMlson, F.P.S. 

I used Mr. Marshall's diagrams ; they are the best, and large 
enouoh for anv lectiue-room. The small edition of these diagrams and 
a kev are nect'ssary for private study. The best plan is to order the 
small edition first, from Smith, Elder, & Co., 15 Waterloo Place, 
lx)ndon. and then select the large diagrams that wiU best illustrate 
the lectures. 

The following beautiful mrdels by Auzoux. which Leeds, strange 
to sav, ioes not possess, were lent to me from Keighley liy Mr. Sw;w 



BOOKr. AND DIAGRAMS. 199 

Smith, one of the Honorary Secretaries of the admirabh Mechanics' 
Institute of that town : — 

Ileart of Adult, 50 francs. 
Eiir (not the largcirt size), 100 francs. 
Half the Eye, 75 francs. 
Horse's Foot, 50 francs. 
They must be ordered direct from the maker. Address — An 
Docteur Auzou.v, Paie Antoiue-Duhois, Paris. 

Very good anatomical casts are also prepared bv Messrs. TJamme 
& Stodaiaun, Ilamburg. Enjjlish agents, B. W. Iledley & Co., 70 
Mount Plea-sant, Liverpool. 

The following are those I have used. The catalogue contains a 
great many more of diH'ereut sizes : — 

Iso. JO. Organ of 11 caring, to be opened . 

Ko. 19. 'J'he Heart, to be opened 

Ko. 21. Contents of Che.st, natural .'^ize 

No. 26. Contents of Abdomen, natural size, and < 

tirely divitiLle .... 
No. 32. Foot, with Ligaments . 



£ 


s. 


d. 


1 


2 


G 


1 


2 


6 


2 


10 





4 











11 






'The Ladies' Council of the Yoilcshire Board of Lducalion ' are 
most anxious to render any as.sistancs to ladies who are desirous cf 
giving Sanitary Lectures. 

To them is due the initiation of these lectures. Mrs. Daily, Mrs. 
Fenwick, myself, and our late talented townswoman, Mrs. James 
Kitson, were invited throe years ago by this body to ^ive some 
sanitaiT lectures to the working-women of Leeds. The Council 
find rooms, issue notices, provide diagi-ams, and do all that is pos.vible 
to i-elieve ladies of any unuece.^sary trouble. The two pamphlets 
written respectively by Mr.«i. J. Kitson and myself were published by 
them. Their ollice is at Tower Bui!din«.'s, Leeds. Any ajplicaticn 
directed to the general Honorary Stcrelary (Mrs, Fiancis Lupton) 
will be immediately attended to. It is to be hoped that every town 
and village will soon possuss a similar organisation. 



APPLXDIX TIL 

QUESTIONS OX CRUELTY TO AXIMALS. 

The following questions were set at the close of my lectures, and 
prizes were ofiered ibr the best answers, by tli'^ Society for the Pre- 
vention of Cruelty to Animals. 



200 APPENDIX lU. 

1. How have a great number of cattle been killed and injared in 

vessels that have brought them from foreign lands ? Why do 
animals that are carried from place to place in dirty railway 
carriages or trucks become diseased? 

2. Why do you think dumb animals require as much pure fresh air as 

human beings ? Name some of the complaints they suffer from 
when they have been shut up in dirty stables. 

3. Why do you think it is not only very cruel but very silly of men 

who drive cattle, and who want them to go faster, to strike them 
on the head ? 

4. ^Vhe^e would you strike an animal if you wanted to kill it as 

quickly as possible ? 

5. Describe the horse's hoof, and tell some of the mistakes which 

ignorant men make when they shoe a horse. Do you think 
a horse ought to have water in its stable, so that it can drink 
whenever it is thirsty? Would you beat a horse if it shied 
at any object it felt afraid of? What would you do to make 
horses or any animals less timid and nervous ? 

6. Describe the reason why horses which are driven with a bearing-- 

rein become what are called ' roarers.' What harm is done by 
bad drivers who keep constantly jerking the reins, and pulling Up 
the liorse's hs:\d ? 

7. Why do you think that a dog might be driven mad if it had a 

muzzle on its mouth that would prevent it from drinking water 
and from putting cut its tongue? 

8. Why is it cruel not to give water to sheep, rabbits, parrots, and 

all animals on long journeys, or when they are shut xip and not 
allowed to find their own foo.l in the fields or woods ? 

9. Why is it a very cruel and fooli>h practice to cut the ears of any 

kind of dog? 
10 Which of the vertebrate animals do yoti think have the most 
courage, sense, affection, understand best what is said to them< 
and never forsake an oM friend? Tell anv stories you can 
remember about dumb animals. 

11. Why do you consider that pigeon-shoot-'ng and rabbif-htintir.g, 

wlr-h -i&-^, *" '^' done ir the Leeds Royal Park, and are still 
done in grand places near London, ought not to be calJeil sporty 
but butchery and cruelty ? 

12. Give some of tne reasons why it i3 selfish to make pets of birds 

and wild animals. 

13. Why are travelling menageries, in which wild animals are trained 

to perform unnatural tricks, cruel places, wliich ought not to be' 
allowed? 

14. Why do we suppose that even one of the lowest animals, called \.h0 

amoeba, has some sort of feeling? 



INDEX. 



ABC 

ACDOMEX, the, 59 
Air, how to obtain good air, 2 
•=- impnre, S 

— dilfereiice betTveen cold and hot air, 
14 

^- effects of bad air, 1 4 
-=— danger of damp air, 57 

— desirability for fresh air while eat- 
ing meals, '?5 

^— necessity for fresh air, 148 

*^ poisoning by organic matter, 148 

^ bad air injurious to the nerves, 156 

Air-bladders, 52 

Albumen, animal and vegetable, 95 

— its effect on digestion, 98 
•«— liardened bv spirits, 100 
Alkali, what i't is, 110 
Americans, unhealthiness of, 115 
Amoeba, the, 10, 184 

Animal albumen, 95 

•■— germs, 10, 145 

•>— nitrogt-nous foods, 1 18 

— carbonaceous foods, 119 
Animals, fresh air needed for, 17 
^ cruelty to, 18, 179 

— with vertebral column, 68 
'— the teeth of, 76 

— drink for, 102 

•"— importance of water for, 114 

— «»rf:ans of, 145 

*— dangorons to fri^^hten them, 155 

— vertebrate, the larynx of, 170 
^ the treatment of, 1*78 

*— sufferings of ca<,^ed animals, 179 
*— their sufferings in menageries, 179 

— invertebrate 1 82 

- the slaughterm;: of. 184 

— cruelty to, questions on, 199 
Aorta, tlie, 43 

Apparatus for cooking, Norwegian, 129 

— SVarren's, 137 

Apples, the quantity of water in, 113 
Arrowroot, the quantitv of water in, 

112 
Arteries, the, 38 

— danger of cutting them, 45 



nul) 

BABY, a, skull of, 22 
— necessity for washing its hfei^ 
with sonp and water, 26 

— spirits injurious to, 101 
Baliy-farmers. 92 
Backbone, the, 26 

Bakers, Paris and Vienna, 152 
Bath, hot-Water, proper heat for, 54 
i Batbinir, directions for, 196 
Bediling, puritied free of expense, Ifi 

— '.'.amp, danger of, 57 

Beds, feather, organic matter in, 148 

Bee, the, 182 

IJeef. ouf- of the principal anij-nnl flesh 

formers. 118 
Beet-steak, receipt for stewing, 141 
Beef-tea, composititm of, 123 

— insufficient for sick people, 139 
Bile, the, 84 

Biliousness, cause of, 96 
Birds, 178 

— CMged, 18 

— circulation in, 47 
Bird-catchers, cruel practices of. I7f/ 
Blacksmith, th', his muscles, 32 
Blood, the, effect of oxygen on, 3 

— substances in, 36, 76 

— circulation of, o7 

— course of, 08 

— its circulation through the he.Tl 
and ariris, 43 

— change of colour in, 43 

— expHiiinent illustrative of the cir' 
culation of, 44 

— carbon in. 53 

— heat of, 53 

— metho t of findinir its heat, 54 

— uniform heat of, 55 

— importance of keeping it watiti. Ov» 

— turnin:,' of food into, ^1 

— albumen in. 96 

— effect of sj)irit3 on, IdO 
Blood-corpusclns, the, 85 

— their shape in human beings, 80 
Mlushing, cause of, 45 

ii(dv warmers, list of. 88 



202 



Body-warmers, necessary- to life, lOG 

— tlie principal animal and vegetable, 
119 

Boilinpr-point, 54 

Bones, of human bein;r, 19 

— formation of, oG 

Books used in preparing tliese Lec- 
tures, 198 
Bowels, the, 90 
Brain, tlie, f)3 

— position of, 24 

— result of irjury to, 04 
Bread, starcli "iii,>;8 

— tlie quantity of vafer in, 112, 114 

— tlie princii)al vei^eiable llesli-formcr. 
118 

— time takfn to digest it, 12.*) 

— home-made, 1;;3 
Bronchial tubes, 52 
Broncliitis, ."8 

Brunei, the civ.l enijinecr, T)? 
Burn. a. hoAv to dress it, 195 
Butchers meat, reason whv it i^ ~o 

dear, 18 
— the quantity eaten in England, 1 15 
^Uiter, jOo 

— the Quantity of water in, 1 12 



CABBAGE, potash in, 108 
— time taken to digest it, 125 
CafTeinr. 14;t 
Cjandl. s, formation of carbonic acid 

gas bv, 50 
Capillaries, th^ 44 
Carbnn, SC, 49 

— change by mixing it with oxyg< n 
gas. 50 

Carbonaceous foods, 88 

— r*ason for their being so called, 03 

— tlie principal, 118 
Oaiboiiic acid g s. 3, 50 

— illustration of its dcadliness, 5 

— suli'ocaiion caused by it. 1 18 
Carrots, the quaniity of water in, ] 13 
Cattle plaj,Mie, the, cause of, J9 
Cerebellum, tiie, (!l 

CerKbniin, the. (".3 
Chabcrt, the fire king, 55 
Charcoal. 50 
Cheese, 105 

— the quinlity of water in, 112 

— the principal animal flcsh-foniicr, 
118 

— time taken to digest it, 125 
Chest, tl;e, 48, 59 

Children, the'r treatment when put 
cut to nurse. 92 

— dangerous to frighten them, 155 



DIG 

Children, cutting of teeth of. 157 

— the danger of boxiiig th.eir ears 
103 

Chimneys, necessity of haying iherr, 

in eycry room, 15 
Chinese foot, a, 31 
Chlorine gas, 110 
Chocolate, composition of. 144 
Choroid, the. 100 
Chyle, 81 

Ci'ier, effect of le.ad in, 159 
Cilia, 50 

Circulation of the blood, 37 
Cleanliness, importance of, 150 
Clothes, dirty, injuriou.s to health, 

148 
Clover, the quantity of water in, 113 
Cocoa, composition of, 144 
Cocoa-nibs, 144 
Co(Toe, composition of, 142 

— its nourishment, 143 

— more nourishim: than tea. 143 
Cold, it.; oflects on the ftppetite, 56 
Consumpticn, 58 
Convolutions of the brain, 03 

Cook, Captain, tne aiscoverer of n 

cure for scurvy, 108 
Cooking, vegetable, 125 

— degree of heat required for, 120 

— Norwegian apparatus for, 129 

— V\'arren's fur, 137 

— the w.iv to cook a notalo, 127 

an egi:, 128 ' 

a mutton ciiop, 131 

a joint cf meat, 131 

rice, 132 

macaroni. 132 

— importance of cleanliness in, 150 
Cords in the hirynx, 173 
Corn-flour, 134 

Corpuscles, blood, the, 85 
Cows, consumption among, 18 

— digestion of, 78 

— ingredients of the milk of, 104 
Cremation, 82 

Cn>up, directions in case of, 59 
Cruelry to animals, 178 

— questions on, 199 
Cunis, 1U5 

Currants, the quantity of water in, 
113 



Di^LlBTETM tremer^s, 101 
Diiphragm, the, 76 
Diarrhoea caused bv using feeding 

bottle, 150 
Digestion, the organs of, 76 
— of animals. 76 



INDEX. 



203 



DIO 

Diprestion. course of, 70 

— how (liscovcred, 99 

— efl'ect (if spirits on, 99 

— ti>n iniicli meat l)n(l for, 115 
Dinner, ilii^ost inn of, 82 
Directions fi.r bathin.<r, 19G 
Diseases caused bv the Avant of sun- 

siiinc. 1(;9 
nisinfectants, 197 
Doctors, .|uack, ITS 
Doj^s, (l;in_u''er of nuizzlincr, 103 

— cruelty of < uiting their ears, IGl 

— saijaciiy of, 178 

Dorkey, the, sensibleness of, 73 

— value of, 7.i 

Draymen, unliealthiness of, 100 
Drink for human beings, 101 

— for animals, lOl' 

Drippings the (juantitj of water in, 

11-2 
Drowning persons, treatment of, Gl, 

19G 
Drunkards, why they suffer from 

liver complaints, 98 
Drv fuuds, 189 



E 



Al\, the, nerves of sound in, IGO 
— formation of, IGl 

— dangerous to box chililren's ears, 
1(53 

— danger of cleiining the inside of, 
IGi 

Kar-adie, cause of, 1G2 
Kggs, the allmmen of, 98 

— the (jiiantity of water in, 1 1"2 

— (he Avav to boil and poach them, 
1-28 

— time taken to digest, 125 
Klei)hant, the, 78 

— intelligence of, 178 

England, amount of butcher's meat 
eaten in, compared to that in other 
countries, 1 15 

Exercise, the necessity of, 32 

I'vam, the jilague in. 12 

Eye, the. KM- 1(18 

— how to extract anything that 
has entered it, IGG 

— muscles of, 1G8 
Eveball, the, 1G4 
Evebn.ws, the, 1C7 
Evelasiies, the, 167 
Eyelids, the, IGG 

FACTS that ought to be known, 1 
Faintiufcc j>ersons, the best 
method for restoring them, 61 
Fat in cocoa, 144 

— digestion of. ]nl, 152 



Fear, (he means of causing death, 155 
Feather beds, organic matter in, 148 
Feeding-bottles, danger of, 150 
I'eet, sensitiveness of the, 72 
Fermety, 134 
Fever, cause of, 9 

— treatment in oMen times. 11 
Fibres, muscular, SO 

Fibrin in the l.-lood. 96 

— hardened by spirits, 10") 
Fincer, the, nerves in, GG 
Fire king, the, 55 

Fi.-<h, their means of breathing, G9 

— the pri>])er way to fry li-^h, 151 
Flesh, table of t lie juices of, 122 
Flesh-f..rmers, 88, l"92 

— composition of, 95 

'— the princijial animal and vegeta- 
ble, 118 

— necessarv (o life, 106 

— nourishment in, 1 18 
Food, digestion of, 7G. 79 

— digested and turned into go<^d 
blood. 81 

— fiKid that will not digest, 82 

— solids, 82 

— the reason we cat solids, 104 

— the reason Ave should not t-k" 
liquids only, 104 

— salt in, 1 10 

— qiiantitv of Avater in drv and wet 
foods, ir2 

— nitrogenous, 118 

— carbonaceous, 1 19 

— dillerent ellects, 119 

— re.ison for eating a A-ariety of, 121 

— hot food more di;;estible than 
cold. 122 

— cooking of, 124 

— im|>oitance <if solids, 140 

— table of, 187 

— drv f(KKls, 189 

— Avet foods, 1 90 

— foods most suitable for health, 
192 

Foot, the, 31 

— of the Chinese, 31 

Fowls, time taken to digest, 125 
Fiench cooking, 1 15 
Fright, cau>c of. 45 

— danirer of frightening cliildron, 155 

— death by, 155 

Frog, the, structure of, G9 
Fruit, potasd in, 108 



G 



AN(;L1A of sight, 1C5 

Ga, formation of carbonic acid 
gas b\ . 5(1 



204 



flAS 

Gastric jnioe, 82, 00 
Gelatine, 37 
Germs, 9 

— poisonotis, 147 

— veiu'etaltle a.r\<\ animal, 145 

— in liquid.-*, 149 

Gin injurious to babies, 101 

Girls, reason Avliy more die than 

bnys, Gl 
Glanrli, sweat, 6 
-^ salivary, 70 

— .c^astric, 82 

— mesenteric, 82 

Gooseberries, the quantity of water in, 

113 
Grass, the quantity of water in, 113, 

114 
Gravv, receipt for, 140 
(iullet, the, .9 
Guy, Dr., on sufferinjrs of sailors a 

hundred years ago, 107 

HAII.'-WASHES, lead in, loO 
Hands, joints in, 26 
Har\-py, the discoverer of circulation 

of the blood, 47 
Hashed cold meat, receipt for gravv, 

140 
Head, the, descrifMon of, 21 

— dangerous to strike it, 23 

— reasons foi keeping it clean, 24 
Health, good, rei|uisites for, 1 

■ — heahli in the o'den times. 8 
*— foods most suitable for, 192 
Hearing, the nerves of, 1^4 
'^- th§ sense of, 159 
Heart, the, 36 

— situation of, 3 

— size of, 38 

^ beating of, 41 

Heat to bake bread, 152 

Hip-joint, 29 

— disease of, 30 

H<<of, a, structure of, 72-7o 
Horse, the, intelligence of, 70 

— affection of, 7 

— ner\'ous system of, 71 

— its foot, 72-75 

'— reason why its evelashes and 

liaw ought never to be cut, 167 
*— the larvnx of, 176 

— why it is cruel to drive it with a 
bearing-rein, 176 

Hydrogen, 81 

ICELAND, raritv of consumption 
in, 58 
Infants, importance of keeping their 
blood warm, 60 



Infants, ignorant ideas of people re- 
gar.linir. 60 

— hints regarding the clothing of, 60 

— digestion of, 01 

— feeding of, 01 

— tight bandaging injurious to, 105 
Infection, retention of, in woollea 

materials, 12 

— directions for, 15 
Insects, nerves of, 182 
Invertebrate animals, 182 
Iron in water. Hi 



JOINTS, 26 



the way to roast them, 131 
Joint-oil, 28 
Juices of the flesh, 122 



KINDNESS, effect of, on cri- 
minals, 175 
Knee-joints, oO 



LACING, tight, effects of, 34 
Lamina ot the iiorse's f-iot 74 
* Land and Water,' extract from, 13S 
Landseer, anecdote rrgardinir. 161 
Lard, the (juantity oi" water in, 112 
Larynx, the, 1 72-^1 i4 
Laudanum, evil elfecls of, 157 
Lead-poisoning, effects of, 159 

— injurious to tiie nerves, 159 
Leeds mortality in, 1 

— uidiealthiness in, 147 
Lemons, potash in, 108 

— the quantity of water in, 113 
Lentils, the quantity of water in, 113 
Lettuce, potash in, 108 

— tiie quantity of water in, 113 
Ligaments, 20 

Lime, 37 

Linseed, the quantity of Avater in, 

113 
Lion, the digestion of, 76 

— the length of its bowels compared 
with those of the sheep, 90 

Liquids, the rea>on Ave should not 
take liquid food only, 104 

— germs in, 149 
Liver, the, 96 

— a nutmeg liver, 07 

— those who suffer most from li-^er 
complaints, 97 

Lobster, the, 182 
Lungs, the, 51 

— capillaries of, 52 

— quantity of air in, 57 



INDEX. 



205 



MACARONI, the quantity of 
■water in, 11 2 
-- tlie wav it sliould be cooked, 

132 
Mumnials, 178 
Mattir, oifianic, 147 
Me.it, the quantity of water in, 112 

— not wiiultsome to eat too much, 
llo 

— time it takes to difrest, 125 

— the wav it should be roasted, 
I'M 

— hashed, UO 

— mimed, 140 

Me<liciiies, quack danger of taking, 
157 

— reason why people should not buy 
them, 158 

Menageries, sufferings of animals in, 

179 
^'e^;enteric glands, the, 84 
Mi<hlens, 147 
Milk, 37 

— ingredients of the milk of a cow 
and a motlicr, 104 

— com posit inn of, 105 

— tlie quantity of water in, 112 

— tiniH it tal;es i»> digest, 125 

— L^erms of infeoiious diseases in, 
149 • 

— danger of sour milk, 150 
Mi need meat, 140 
Min.-ral foods, 106, 109 
^lonkf^ys, treatment of, 18 
Morqiesson. Mr., 13 

Mother's milk, ingredients of, 104 
Motion, nerves of, 154 
Muscles, the, 31 

— injury of spirits to, 99 

— of the eye, 1G8 

Mutton, one of the principal animal 

fle.sii-fnrmers, 118 
Mutton-chop, the wav to cook one, 

131 



NERVES, the, 65 
— effect of spirits on, 101 

— of hearing, 154 

— voluntary, 155 

— of motion, 155 

— bad air injurious to, 156 

— of sound, 'lUO, 1C2 

— of }ii;iht, IG5 
Nitrogen, 95 
Nit.rn^ienous foods, 95 

— liif^ prinijii.al, l\>i 

North American Indian, skull of, 
22 



Norwegian self-acting cooking appa- 
ratus, 129 
— directions for its use, 194 
Nurses, caution to, 29 
Nutmeg liver, the, 97 



OATMEAL, nourishment in, 118 
— I he {irincipai vegetkble flesh • 
former, 118, 192 
Oats, the qnantit}' of water in, 112 
Oil>, the f|uaiitity of water in, U2 

— elements of waters, 80 

Onions, the quantitv of water in, 

113 
Oranges, potash in, 108 

— the quantit}' of water in, 113 
Organs of the body, 36 

— of plants an-l animals, 145 

— of sight, IC4 
Organic matter, 147 

— organic matter in wells, 170 
Orrery, an, 170 
Osmazome, 125 

Oven, proper heat to hake bread. 

152 
Oxvgen gas, its effect on the blood 

32 

— result of Its combination witii car- 
bon, 50 

Ovster, the, 182 



PANCREAS, the, 90 
Paris bakers, 152 
Pat^ de foie gras, composition of, 

97 
Peas, the quantitv of water in, 
112 

— nourishment in, 118 
Permang:inate of potash, 10 
I'er-|)irinion, G 

Pets, cruelty of keeping them, 179 
Phosphate of lime, 110 
IMiosphorus, 37 
Pigcon-shooiing, cruelty of, 179 

— an instance of its cruelty, 180 
Pi;:s, measles among, 19 

Plague, tiie, an instance of infection 

during, 12 
Plants, organs of, 145 

— decayed, 147 

— etVect of sunshine on, 168 
Pleura, the, 61 
Pleurisv,51 

Plica Polonica, 25 
poisonous germs, 147 
Pores of tiie skin, 6 

— effect of stoppages in. 6 



206 



INDEX. 



l^)^e^^. absurption bv, 7 

— of plants, 146 

Turk, time taken to dii^est it, TJo 
J'oi ridge, how to make it, 192 
Potash, composition of, 107 

— expeiiineut by wbicli it is made, 
108 

— in vej^etables, 108 
Totassimn. 108 

Potatoes, the quantity of water in, 
118, li-i 

— boded, time taken to digest, 125 

— roasted, time taken to digest, 
1 •_'.=) 

— the way to boil them, 120 
Priest ley,' Dr., 9 
Pulmonary yeius, 41 

Piimiikia, the quantity of water in, 
113 

QUACK doctors, 158 
— medicines, danger of 
i;.king, 158 

— tiie reason why people should not 
buy tiiem, 158 • 

Quadrupeds, circulatiou in, 47 



RAP.RITS, importance of water 
fur, 114 
Pabbit-huuting, cruelty of, 181 
li;il>" setd, the quantity of water in, 

113 
Reptiles, 178 

— circulation in, 47 
Iie>pratit)ii, 41) 
Peiiua, the, 1(15 
lieyalenta Arabic.i, l.M 
PlieuMiatism, cause of, 57 
Pluiliarb, the quantity of water in, 

IIJ 
It«-e, the quantity of water in, 112 

— uoiirislimcnt in, 1 18 

— the way it shotdd be cooked, 
132 

Uojisting, 131 
Uoots of plants, 145 



OAILOnS, sufFerings of, from 
O scurvy, along time ago, 107 
Siiliv.i, bad practice of cleaning 

slates with, 147 
S:iliyarv glands, 79 
Salts in th- bloi.d, 106 
Salt, common, 110 
Salt meat, 136 
Sauce^.ans the way they should be 

cleaned, I.'.O 



Scald, a, how to dress it, 195 

Scarlet feyer germs in woollen 

materials, 13 
Sclerotic, the, 166 
Scurvy, suH'erings of sailors from, a 

long time ago, 107 

— cure for, discovered by Captain 
Cook, 108 

Sea-- nils, 181 

Semolina, the quantity of water in, 
112 

— the way it should be cooked, 
134 

Sense of hearing, the, 159' 

— of sight, the, 164 
Sheep, diseases among, 19 

— the length of their bowels, 90 
Sickue.-s, directions for, 15 
Sight, sen>e of, 164 

— nerves of, 165 
Skeleton, human, the, 19 
Skin, the, 5 

— its pores, 6 

— hints to people who suffer irom 
skin com|daints, HI 

— etiecf of tea upon. 142 
Skull, the, 63 

— natural state of, 21 

— of a baby, 22 

— of a Nortli American Indian, 22 
Slates, bad practice of cleaning 

tliem with saliya, 147 
Small-pox, curious cure of, 11 
Soap, necessity for using it with 

water, 7 

— soda in, 109 

Society for Prevention of Cruelty to 

Animals, 17 
Soda, composition of, 109 
So.lium, 110 

Sole, a, the way to cook it, 152 
>olid foods, importance of, 140 
S(K)thing syrups, danger of, 157 

— deatii from taking, 158 
Sound, cause of, 160 
Soup, nourishmeni in, 121 

— receijjts for making it with and 
without butcher s meat, 136-138 

Speech, necessity for learning, 174 

— gentleness of, 174 
S|)inal cord, the, 65 

— its connei tion with the braui, 154 
Spine, 26 

Spirits, etPect on digestion, 99 

— bad efb cts of, 98 
Stammering, cau>e of. 174 
Stare*' in bread. 88 
Starfish, the, 183 

Stems of plants, 145 



207 



STB 

Stewed beof-steak, receipt for, 141 

Sti.ck, ine;it. loU 

StKiuacI), the, 80 

Siil'stanct s in tlie l.lood, oG, 76 

Suet, till" quantity of water in, 112 

SiiiJDcatiuii, Gl 

Sui;ar, ooniiiosition of, 93 

— wliiilesonicne-^s of, 1)4: 

— not iiijuriiuis to the tepth, 91 

— the <|uantity of warer in, 1 12 
Sun. tlie, ihe means of our o!):ainiu_:j: 

drink and air, 170 
Sun>hine, iinpo'tan' e of, 1C8 

— diseases caused by the want of, 
1G9 

Sxrups. soothin?, danger of, 157 

— death fniiu takings 168 
Sweat, G, 148 
Sweat-<rlands G 
Sweetl.n-ad, llse. 90 

bweets. injurious to children, 95 



'^pAXNICacid, 141 
X Tea, conipositit)n of, 141 

— its etrt-ct on our hoilies. 142 

— its olU'ct on tlieskin, 142 

— best time to be t.iken, 142 

— ba«l fur pi'ople wlio do not get 
plenty of fuod, 143 

1>ar-<;lands, IG/" 
Te^-tli. ihf, 7G 

— of animals, 7G 

— use of, 78 

— reason why there are more deatlis 
in town than country durin;^ cut- 
linj: of tectii, l.'>7 

Teuiporal bone of the ear, IGl 
Tlieine, 141 
'I'lieobioma cacao, 144 
Thermometer, the, explanation of, 

Thirst, the best drink to quencli it, 

102 
Thorax, the, .',0 
Throat, the musical instrument in, 

17J 
Ticcauscil by weak nerves, 15G 
Tooth-ache caused bv weak nerves, 

Touch, sense of, Gg 

Trtacle, cumjiosition nf, 93 

i'ripp. time taken to di-^est it, 125 

'Irunk, tlie, 2G 

Turnips, the quantity of water in, 

113 
Typhoid fever caused by drinking 

impure milk, 150 



TT-ARICOSE veins, 46 
> Veal, time taken to digest it, 
125 
Veget bles, germs in, 10, 145 

— iligestion of, 87 

— startli in, 88 

— body-w.irni' rs, 88 

— al'iumen of, 95 

— nitrogenous footl-?. 118 

— carbonaceous foods, 119 

— ]>repa rations from, 134 

— cookin_^ of. 125 
Veins, thf, 38 

— siipi-riiir vena cava, 39 

— inti-rior vena cava, 31) 

— pulmonary, 41 

— \aricosc, JG 

— circulation of lilood through, 46 
Vena cava, suptrior, 39 

— inferior, 39 
Ventilation, 13 
Vertebral column. G8 
Virtebnte animals, C8 

— tlie larynx of, 176 
Vienna bakers, 152 
Vocal cords, 172 

Voice, the, gentleness of, 174 

— I fleet of, on criminaLi and fierce 
animals, 175 

Voluntary nerves, 155 



WARTiRX'S apparatus for cook- 
ing. i;>7 
W iter, (•omp..sition of, 80 

— safety of drinking. 102 

— immense quantity in tlip body. 1 12 

— er^Miiic matter in well-water, 170 
Well-water, organic matter in, 170 
\V. t f<K)ds, 191) 

Wheat, ti»e quantitv of water in, 112. 

113 
Whev, 105 
W indpipp, tlie. 51. 5G 

— danger of gett'iig anything into, 57 
Woii'cn, their want of exer ise, S3 

— elVect of tii:ht l.-cing on, 34 

— tlieir strength. 35 

Woollen maerials, retention of genus 

«if .tisease in. 12 
Working-men, best food for, 119 



Y^*' 

Z'^" 



VST, 10 



IMIVTKS. 183 



■;.v f.^ 





. filler fp-J 



1 






f i 



i 



HEALTH IN THE HOUSE 

Buckton, 



-.^u^ 
^ 



^%^ 



'-U' 



<^ 



/r. 



Piller v^ W^ M\uix\i$Ml ^txitfj. 



HEALTH IN THE HOUSE 



TWENTY-FIVE LECTURES ON ELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY 
IN ITS APPLICATION TO THE DAILY WANTS OF 
MAN AND ANIMALS, DELIVERED TO THE 
WIVES AND CHILDREN OF WORK- 
ING-MEN IN LEEDS AND 
SALTAIRE. 



BY 

CATHERINE M. BUCKTON, 

MEMBER OF THE LEEDS SCHOOL BOAr.D. 



AUTIIOJIIZED BY THE MINISTER OF EDUCATION. 



TENTH EDITION. 



TORONTO: 

ADAM MILLER & Co 

1879. 



Entered acoording to Act of the Parliament of Canniln, in lli^ year on 
thousand eiglit hundred and sevcnly-seyen, Ly Adam Miller » 
Co., in the Oflice of the Minister of Agriculture. 




^^d^ 



PREFACE 



THE SIXTH 2DITI0N. 



It ii now six montlis sinco this little book was first issued, and 
in that time it has attained a success beyond my most sanguine 
expectations. In preparing this new edition I have availed 
myself of the criticisms sent me by several of the scicntiSc 
men whose books I studied, and I have also benefited by 
reading the numerous reviews which have appeared. I am 
glad to be permitted to mention that Mr. Marshall, F.R.S., 
who kindly gave me his advice during the revision of the 
original manuscript, has rendered me still further indebted to 
him by carefully reading throuT^h the book for the purpose of 
this edition ; and by these means it has, I hope, been much 
improved. The present edition is published in a cheaper form, 
in accordance with numerous sus-erestions which have been 
made to me for extending its influence. I hope that my 
Lectures will, therefore, now come within the reach o£ those 
for whom they were originally written. 



CATHERINE M. BUCKTON. 



4 MoonLA>rD Teruack : 
Fib. Aih. 1876. 



PREFACE 

TO 

THE FIRST EDITION 



Having had two winters' experience in giving Lectures on 
Physiology and the Laws of Health to the wives and daughters 
of working-men in Leeds and Saltaire, I ventured to hope I 
might be able to make the sam.e instruction interesting and 
intelligible to boys and girls in our Board schools, from the 
ages of ten to twelve. With the aid and concurrence of my 
colleagues on the School Board, about ninety children of both 
sexes, in Standards IV., V., and VI.,' were collected into one 
centre during the winter of 1874. As I wished to find out 
whether the children were really interested in my Lectures, 1 
fixed upon an hour in the afternoon when their schooltime 
was over, and explained clearly that I only desired to have 
those who were anxious to come and could understand what I 
told them. 

The following Lectures contain the substance of my 
teaching. 

I must claim the indulgence of the educated public for the 
extreme simplicity of my style, and for the tautology which so 
frequently appears. They must kindly remember that my 
whole endeavour was to tell my story in language that would 
be understood by artisan children from the ages of ten to 
thirteen. 

During five months the attendance averaged fifty. Several 
half-timers were obliged to discontinue coming on account of 



X PREFACE TO THE 

their work. Without one exception, the children proved 
most attentive and polite, and, I am told, looked forward with 
great pleasure to the lectures. The answers sent in weekly 
to my printed questions proved that the most important part 
of the instruction was nnderstood — namely, the necessity for 
fresh air, cleanliness, good food, and the great harm that 
spirits do to the dilferent organs. The germ theory enabled 
Hie to show very clearly the danger of infection. By the aid 
of Anatomy, and Fhysiolnijy or Anatomy in connection with 
Structure^ I described the beautiful structure and marvellous 
life of man and animals ; and showed the awful amount of 
suffering that is caused by the cruel and ignorant practices 
of men and women. Physiology, vrhen pi-actically applied, 
becomes a most interesting study to persons of all ages, but 
when taught alone is, I believe, uninteresting, and soon for- 
gotten by all except medical students. 

The boys enjoyed the lectures on food and cooking equally 
with the girls, and it appears to me to be equally important 
that they should understand the properties of foods, and the 
principles on which they ought to be cooked. 

To soldiers, sailors, and emigrants, such knowledge must 
be of vital importance. I cannot see how real success can 
attend any scheme for teaching couking, unless this inform- 
ation has been previously given. Even a professed cook may 
prove a most extravagant poor man's wife, and a lady may 
attend lectures on cuisine for ever, and still be unable to rear 
a healthy family, and make small means go far. 

During my lectures, I determined to plead the cause of 
dumb animals as well as little children. Great interest was 
taken in all that was related about them. I was pleased to 
observe the strong expressions of disapproval written and 
expressed, when instances were given of the cruel and ignorant 
way in which they were often treated I believe the dreadful 
brutality now practised by human beings upon each other and 



FIRST EDITION. D 

upon dumb animals, will not bo really diminished until young 
people are reverently taught how wonderfully their bodies are 
made, and the great care that is needed to preserve them in 
health. No schools require this instruction so mucli as our 
elementary schools, for it is from them we draw our supply 
of nurses, grooms, farm-servants, and butchers. The following 
circumstance shows that instruction of this kind exerts a 
humanising influence. A missionary told me he knew a 
woman who used to beat her children in a very brutal manner. 
Nothing that was said appeared to touch her heart, or change 
her ways, until she learned from the lectures how delicately 
and wonderfully a child is made ; then her past cruelty pre- 
sented itself in its true light, she was filled with sorrow, and 
ceased to treat her little ones unkindly. 

My lectui-cs were concluded by a visit to our Museum. 
Seventy-three of the children met mo there, and they all 
locked with great interest at the animals I had described. 
Museums are essentially places for working-men and their 
children, therefore every effort ought to be made to enable 
masters and mistresses to follow up their lessons on natural 
history by visits to these places. At the end of my course of 
twenty-five lectures, I presented to each child fourteen ques- 
tions, which bore on the information I had given respecting 
animals. These will be found in the Appendix, p. 109. Five 
prizes ai-e to be awarded for the best answers by the Leeds 
branch of the Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Ani- 
mals, at their annual meeting. 

I attributed my success in arousing the interest of my 
hearers to the pains I took to make the matter intelligible and 
attractive, by having models, illustrations, and experiments, 
and by giving the information orally. I was also veiy 
anxious to impress the children with confidence, so that 
they might come and ask questions id the close of the lecture. 
Prizes, I told them, would be given to those who showed by 



Xll PREF4CE TO THE 

their answers that they had endeavoured to understand and 
remember what I said. This encouraged those who wrote 
and spelt badly to show their intelhgence and do their best. 
I always read over the questions before I began the lecture, 
in order to draw attention to the most important facts, and I 
repeated the information which I found from the written 
answers I had failed to make clear in the previous week. My 
only regret was that I had not a larger supply of models, and 
a greater nnmber of experiments; for instance, a model of 
the head and brain, and an experiment to show how water 
can be decomposed by a galvanic current into oxygen and 
hydrogen, and other illustrations which will readily occur to 
experienced teachers. 

Instruction of such vital importance ought only to be 
given by persons who are specially fitted for the work, and 
can be provided with every appliance which science and skill 
can furnish. Directly the people are educated and under- 
stand that fresh air, good water, and cleanly habits, are 
necessary for their health and happiness, they will demand 
model dwellings, and also those sanitary reforms which 
ignorant corporations and thoughtless masters and mistresses 
now withhold from them. 

Mr. Stansfeld expressed this opinion publicly a few weeks 
since at Halifax in the following words : — ' Legislation will 
never make people clean, nor can any sanitary reform be ac- 
complished until the masses are taught the Laws of Health.* 
Saltaire is well known as a model manufacturing town, where 
Sir Titus Salt and his family have done all that sanitary skill 
and money can accomplish. 

Mrs. Titus Salt induced me, last winter, to give a course 
of lectures to their people, as she assured me that they were 
very anxious to receive the same information I had given in 
Leeds. Experience bore out this statement. My audience 
varied during six winter nights from two to five hundred 



FIRST EDITION. XIU 

working-womei* <nid their daughters, who received all I had 
to say, as my Leeds friends had done, with the greatest grati- 
tude and eagerness. On all sides I heard the strongest 
regrets expressed that they had not been taught early in life 
what every woman ought to know. 

My warmest thanks are due to all my friends in Leeds 
and elsewhere, who have so kindly helped me, either person- 
ally or by their writings, to cull the information contained in 
this little volume. 

I should like to express my obligation to Mr. MiRsnALL, 
F.R.S., the distinguished surgeon and physiologist, for the 
advice he was always ready to give during the revision of 
the manuscript. This kindness was doubly appreciated by 
me, as it was rendered voluntarily to the work of a perfect 
stranger. 

I cannot conclude without also mentioning the name of 
Mr. WH5ELH0USE, F.R.C.S., one of our leading medical men. 
En the midst of his large practice he has always been ready to 
clear up difficulties which books failed to make plain. From 
the first he gave me his sympathy, and encouraged me to 
carry out my work by the assurance that the efforts made by 
the medical profession to hinder the loss of life and suffering 
caused by preventible diseases will ever prove unavailing 
until ignorant prejudices have been removed by sanitary 
knowledge. 



CONTENTS. 



LECTURE I. 

TUP. AIR WK BUKATIIB. 



PAOK 

The Requisites for (rood Health 1 

Oxygen 2 

Carbouic Acid . . . . 3 



TAGK 

SxTcat and Sweat-glands . . 6 
Kecessity for usiug Soap and 
AVater 7 



LECTURE II. 

IMPURE AIR AND VENTILATION. 



Causes of Fever 
Vreutmeut of Fever Cases 



Ventilation 
Directions for Sickness 



LECTURE III. 



THE SKELETON. 

Fresh Air needed for Dumb I The Skeleton 

Animals . . . . 17 I The Skull 



. 17 
. 2J 



LECTURE IV. 



The Skeleton 
Ti\e Spine 
The llip-joint 



SKELETON-JOINTS AND MITSCLES. 



The Foot 
The Muscles 



. 3! 
. 31 



Substances in tlie ]^)lood . 
Circulation of the Elood . 



LECTURE V. 

THE CIRCULATION. 



30 



The Arteries 



LECTURE VL 
THE CIRCULATION [contimied). 



Thb Capillaries . 
Arteries and Veins 



43 
46 



Varicose Veins . 
Circulation of Animals 



46 

47 



XVI 



Carbon 
The Lungs 
The Windpipe 



CONTENTS. 


LECTURE VII. 


UESPI RATION. 


PACK 

. 49 
. 51 
. 61 


The Heat of the Blood 
The Thermometer 



PACT? 

, 53 
53 



The Windpipe 

Consumption 

Bronchitis 



LECTURE VIII. 
RESPiRATiox {continued). 



56 
58 
68 



Croup 59 

Treatment ot DrowningPersons 61 



LECTURE IX. 

THE BRAIN AND NERVOUS SYSTEM. 



The Brain . 
^'ertebrate Animals 


. . G3 The Nervous System of a Ilorse 71 
. 69 The Horse's Hoof ... 73 




LECTURE X. 




UIGESTION. 


Organs of Digestion 
The Teeth 


. .,76 The Salivary Glands . . . 79 
. 76 The Stomach .... 80 




LECTURE XI. 




DIGESTION {continued). 


Cremation . 
Solid Foods . 


. . 82 The Bile 84 

. 82 The Blood Corpuscles . . 85 



LECTURE XII. 

DIOESTION AND CARUONACEOUS FOODS. 



Animal and Vegetable Foods 
Vegetable Body-warmeis . 



The Gnstric Juice 
Infant Digestion 



LECTURE XIII. 

CAEBONACEOUS AND NlTKOGENOtTS FOODS. 



Body- warmers 
Sugar 



93 
94 



Flesh-formers 
The Liver 



CONTKM'S. 



xvu 



LECTURE XIV. 

NITHOGKNOUS AND LIQUID FOODS. 



Bad Effects ot Spirits 
Water and Milk 



PAOB 

. 98 
. 101 



Drink for Animals 



PAQB 

102 



LECTURE XV. 

MILK AND MINERAL FOODS. 



Milk . . . . 
Salts . 


. 104 
. . 106 


Scurry . . . . . 
Potassium 


107 
lOfi 




LECTURE XVI. 






MINERAL FOODS. 




Soda . . . . 
Salts .... 
Water in Food 


. 109 Importance of Water for Ani- 

. .110 mals 

.112 French Cooking 


114 
116 


• 


lECTURF XVII. 

FOODS. 




Flesh-formers 
Body -warmers 
Different Effects of Food 


. . 117 

119 

. . 119 


Cheap Soup . . . . 
BeefTea 


121 
123 



LECTURE XVm. 
COOKING {boiling). 



Vegetable Cooking . 
Potatoeg . 


. 124 
. . 125 


Boiled Eggs . 
Poached iSgga . 


. 128 

. . 128 




LECTURE XIX. 






COOKING {continued). 




Cooking Apparatus , 
Roasted Joints . 
Rice . . I . 


. 130 
. . 131 
. . 132 


Macaroni 

Vegetable Preparations 


. 133 

. . 134 




LECTURE XX. 






COOKING {continued). 




Vegetable Soup 
Importance of Solid Foods 
Tea .... 


. 135 

. . 139 

. 141 


Coffee. 

Cocoa .... 

Chocolate . 


. . 143 

. 144 

. . 144 



XVUl 



CONTENTS. 



LECTUEE XXI. 
cooKixo (concluded). 



- 


PACK 




PAOB 


Orj>ans of Plants 


. 145 


Importance of Cleanliness 


. 150 


Organic Matter . 


. . 146 


Baking . . . . 


. 152 



LECTURE XXII. 

THE NEUVES AND THE SEXSE OF HEARIN^Q. 



The Organs of Ilearing . 


. 154 


Quack Doctors 


. 158 


Fear 


. 155 


Effects of Lead-poisoning . 


. 159 


Weak Nerves . 


. 156 


The Sense of Ilearing 


. 159 


Evil I']iFects of Laudanum . 


. 157 


The Ear . . . . 


. lii'J 



LECTUEE XXIII. 



SIGHT AXD StJNSniXE. 



The Or^ran of Sight . 
The Eye . 


. 1G4 1 Importance of Sunshine . 
. . 165 ' Day aud Night . 

• 

LECTUEE XXIV. 

THE VOICE. 


. 1C9 
. . 171 


The Larynx . 
Gontie fcjpeech 


. 172 The L-xrynx of a Horse . 
. . 174 The iJcahug-Ecin 


. 176 
. 176 



LECTUEE XXV. 

THE TREATMENT OF ANllTALS. 



The Elephant . 
Cruelty to Animals 



178 
179 



Invertebrate Animals 
Cruelty and Kindness . 



181 
185 



Food Table 
Dry Foods . 
AVet Foods 



APPENDIX L 



187 
189 
190 



FvK)ds most Suitable forllealth 192 



ILow to Dress a Scald 



195 



IIow to Treat a Person Appa- 
rently Drowned . .196 
Directions for Bathing . 196 
Disinfectants . . . . 197 



APPENDIX II. 
Books, Diagrams, and Models 198 



APPENDIX m. 
Questions on Cruelty to Animals 



199 



LIST OF ILLUSTEATIONS. 



no. ^ TAon 

1. Front view of the inside of chest and abdomen. (Marshall) . 4 

2. Vegetable germ — Yeast plant . . . . . . 10 

3. Microscopic Animal — Amoeba . . . . . 10 

4. A front view of the human skeleton. {^farshaU) . . . 20 

6. The bones of the head. {Dr. Southwood Smith) . . . 21 
61 Human skull in a natural state. {Dr. Southwood Smith) , . 22 

7. The skull of a North American Indian. {A. Bullar) . . 23 

8. The dilFercnt bones of the spine. {Marshall) . . . . 25 

9. The spine. {Marshall) . . . . . . 27 

10. Back view of the bones of the left hand. (Marshall) . . . 28 

11. Side view of the bones of the left foot. (Marshall) . . 30 

12. Natural foot . . . . . . . . 31 

13. Cliinese foot. (A. Bullar) . . . . . . 32 

14. Position of the heart, lungs, liver, and stomach. (Madame 

Bodichon) . . . . . . . . 33 

15. The organs pushed out of their places by tight lacing. (Madame 

Bodichon) . . . . . . . 34 

1 6. The aorta separated from the heart. (Marshall) . . . 39 

17. View of the chest .and abdomen. (Marshall) ', . .40 

18. View of the heart and its arteries . . , . . 42 

19. The lungs. (Dr. W. B. Carpenter) . . . .52 

20. The top part of the great brain or cerebrum. (Marshall) . . 64 

21. Ilalf the brain. (Marshall) . . . .65 

22. Front view of the contents of the skull and the spinal column 

(Marshall) . . . . . . . . 66 



LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS. 



FIG. 

23. 
24. 



25. 

26. 

27. 

28. 

29. 

30. 

31. 

32. 

33. 

34. 

35. 

36. 

37. 

38. 

39. 

40. 

41. 

42. 



View of the nerves. (Marshall) .... 
Different shapes of some of the bones that are joined together 

make the spine. (Marshall) 
Organs of a vertebrate animal. (Milne Edwards) 
Organs of a fish. (Milne Edwards) 
Bony skull and backbone of an ostrich. (D'Mlon) 
Skeleton of a horse. (Stubbs) .... 
Side view of the trunk of the body. (Marshall) . 
Diagram showing the stomach and the bowels. (Marshall) 
Blood corpuscles. (Marshall) .... 
Starch grains. (E. Smith) . . . . 

Magnified slicf of a young potato. (S.W.Johnson) 
Vegetable germ — Yeast plant 

Microscopic animal — Amoeba. (Dr. W. B. Carpenter) 
View of the larjTix. (Marshall) 
The larynx of a horse. (Mayhcw) 
A lobster. (Dr. W. B. Carpenter) 

Au insect. (Dr. W. B. Carpenter) , , , 

An oyster. (Dr. W. B. Carpenter) 
A sbirfish. (Dr. W. B. Carpenter) , , 

Amoeba. (Dr. W. B. Carpenter) , , , 



PAOI 

67 



. 68 
. 69 
. 70 
. 71 
. 72 
. 77 
. 83 
. 86 
. 89 
. 126 
. 146 
. 146 
. 173 
. 177 
. 181 
. 182 
. 183 
. 183 
. 186 



HEALTH IN THE HOl^SE. 

LECTURE I. 

77/2: AIR WK BREATHE. 

I HOPE that the instrnction I am going to give you daring 
these lectures will soon be given to every boy and girl. My 
first reason for desiring this is beeanse I know that there 
IS so much sickness, suffering, and death that is entirely 
caused by ignorance about physiology and the laws of 
health. You will see I have written down on this big sheet 
a series of 

Facts that every Man and Woman in Leeds ought to know. 

Number of men and women who died in Leeds in the year 1872, 
from preventiblo causes, such as Scarlet Fever, Typhus Ferer, 
Small-Pox, &c 1,538 

Number of Children who died in Leeds in 1872, from Fevers, 
Croup, &c., and more especially from the want of a mothers 



care ..... 






. 1,170 


Total number of deaths from all causes 




. 6.881 


TO ENSURE GOOD 


HEALTH 




We must have 








Fresh Air, 




Good Drains, 




Pure Water, 




Proper Clothing, 




Wholesome Food, 




Temperance, 




Clean Houses, 




Cleanly Habits. 




Clean Streets, 









It is very sad to think that 1,538 grown-up people and 
i,170 little children died last year in Leeds, and die every 

B 



6 THK All; \VK HUEATIIE. 

year, vvliose lives might have been saved ; bat it is nmeh iiiO)-u 
dreadful to know that nearly as many people who partly re- 
covered from these complaints arc still living and safi'ering 
from diseases left by fevers, small-pox, &c. 

Many fathers and mothers with large families, who werq 
able to work and support them comfortably before thoy had 
these illnesses, are now obliged to live in the workhonse. 
Poor little babies grow up to be miserable weak men and 
women, unable to gain their own living, obliged to be de- 
pendent on charity, because their mothers either neglected 
them when they were infants, or wore too ignorant to under- 
stand how to bring them up. 

My second reason for wishing to give you these lectures 
is because I am so grieved to see how cruelly and unkindly 
Lun^an beings ti^eat each other, and also how cruelly poor 
dumb animals are used. I feel quite sure that young people 
would not be cruel if they were made early to understand how 
beautifully and wonderfully our bodies are made. I shall 
show 3'ou that dumb animals, though they cannot tell us how 
much they sull'er, do sutler when they are hurt, because a 
great many of them are made very much like we are, and can 
feel like ourselves. 

You see the first thing i have mentioned as essentially 
necessary, if we are to secure health, is good air. I will tell 
you why---because we could live about a week without either 
water or food, but we could not live two minutes without 
air. If a pillow were placed over your mouth and nose, you 
would be dead in two minutes, because no air could get into 
your lungs. We first draw in a breath of air, and then we send 
out a breath of air. This we do every instant of our lives, 
unless we have been crying, and then we sob and take in 
two or three breaths of air without letting one out, in thia 
manner. 

We breathe so gently and easily when we are well and 
have no cold, that we never think about how we breathe. 
The air we take into our mouths ought to be pure air and 
contain a great deal of the gas that is in this bottle. It is 
called oxygen gas. Now, this is the most wonderful gas in 
the world, and I shall have a great deal to tell you about it 



iiuw wi'j iJia-iAiHii. 



brfore I liave done my lectures You would not. think there 
was anything wonderful in this bottle ; it has neither taste 
colour, nor smell ; but it is the gas in this bottle which makes 
our bodies warm and keeps us alive. Directly we can't have 
any of it we die; and then you know oar bodies become 
quite cold, like a piece of marble. At the end of my lecture 
I will put this match, with just a tiny spark of light at the 
end of it, into this bottle ; then it will burst into a bright 
flame. 

I must now explain the wonderful effect oxygen gas has 
on our blood. Yon all know you have a heart, but I dare 
say you 'don't know what it is like, nor where it is placed in 
your bodies. I am glad to tell you I can show you a beau- 
tiful model of a heart ; here it is. It is placed nearly in the 
middle of the chest, between the two lungs, as you will see by 
this picture. This wonderful little heart can send the blood 
to every part of our body, from the top of our head to the 
ends of our toes, in less than one minute. The blood is car- 
ried in thousands and thousands of little tubes, or pipes, 
to every part of the body. You know that if you prick 
yourself in any part with a needle, blood comes out. Directly 
we take in a breath of fresh air, the oxygen that is in it turns 
the blood into a beautiful bright red. I have written down 
oxygen gas here in red letters, because it U'akes the blood such 
a beautiful red colour. Look how it is spelt. 

I will now tell yon about the air which comes out of our 
mouths. It is as deadly as any poison you could buy at a 
druggist's shop. On a cold day you can see the breath 
coming out of your mouths, and it looks like steam. Breathe 
on a pane of glass, and you will see directly a white film. If 
you were to sit in a room that had no windows, and the door 
was shut fast, so that no fresh air could come in, yon would 
soon die. The name of the poisonous gas that comes out 
from our mouths is carbonic acid ; it is written down here in 
black letters, because it turns all our blood dark and thick, 
and this dark blood poisons the brain, spinal cord, nerves, 
and heart, and so we die. I have got some here in this bottle, 
and I will show you at the end of the lecture how heavy this 
gas is. Like air, it cannot be seen, but T can pour some of 

b2 



THE AIR WE BREATHE. 



Fig. 1. 




Frort view of the inside of the cliept (ffiomx) rwi-. anromm, laid open hy taking away 
their onts de coTcrings the lib;? in frciit ot thechest haying deeii removed. Tlietip of 
the brenst-bi ne (stemnni) and rart of the caitilapos oi the screiith and fclIoMiiiP ribs, 
are keiit. as tlie riiaphrapTn, whicli srpaiates tliese tvo hollow paits of thetnnk.is 
fixed to th( m. In the chest are seen the rif.>ht ard lelt Inngs / i ; and between them 
tl e bag ol the heart (pericorihvm), laid'opc n to show a part of tlii.t organ fi. Tasfing 
up from the heart to the sides of the neck are the great blocd-vessels, th^ ooria. Ihe 
vein i. letween which are seen the wind-pipe and the larynx. lelow the diaphragm, 
and therefore in the Hbdomen, is seen, projecting below the right ribs, a pa t of the 
liver <(. Fnm a notch low d< wn p- ejects the gall-bladder. Under the li ;er. and to the 
le>'t, is the pt( mach x at the left end of which is seen a piece of the spleen ; 1 e'ow is the 
great bowel c, cr intestine, vhich goes nearly ronr.d th" snail liowels, cr intestines, 
thiit lie twisted abont in the middle. LovACst of all lies the bladder. M hen you lo(.k 
at a diagram in a I ook. yon must remember that you are standing rppusite to the 
Cs-nire which has its back'to the i)age. Your iii;ht hand therefore vill be on ihe left 
iu the figure ; ^\ hat is on your riuht in the figure, v\ ill l-e on your leit side really. 



it from that bottle into this bottle, because it is heavier than 
air. I Avill put a lighted candle into it, and out it will go. 
Next week I will let one of the boys or girls fill a bottle with 



OXYGEN AND CARBONIC ACID GAS, b 

the air that comes out of their months, and yon will see that 
it contains some carbonic acid gas, for it will pnt out a candle 
jnst in the same way that tliis gas will put out a light. 

There was an emigrant ship that sailed from Liverpool a 

few years ago. This vessel was going to . The men 

and women and children on board were going to leave old 
England to work in a strange land. They were emigrants 
One night a dreadful storm arose. The ship tossed about so 
much that the captain ordered the sailors to send all the men 
and women and children down into a large room nnder the 
deck, because he was afraid they might be in the way. The 
sailors fastened the door so that they could not get out. The 
storm went down in a few hours, when the captain told the 
sailors they might op^n the door, or hatches as they were 
called. The sailors took a candle, because the room where these 
poor creatures were put was quite dark. When they entered, 
the candle went out. They lighted it again, and it went out 
a second time. This was done several times. At last it 
remained alight, and so they were able to descend. And what 
do you think they found ? Nearly all the men and women 
and little children lying on the ground. Some were dead, 
others unconscious. The only air they had had to breathe was 
the air that had come out of their mouths. No oxygen had 
been able to get in, so they had been poisoned by carbonic 
acid gas. ^ 

I must tell you that all dumb animals which have a heart 
like ours also die if they cannot have good air containing a large 
quantity of oxygen. About a year or two ago a ship brought 
over a large number of sheep from Holland. They were fas- 
tened down in a room such as the poor emigrants were placed 
in, where no pure air could enter. When the hatches were 
opened, it was found that six liundred and forty-six were 
dead, and had to be thrown overboard. When animals have 
been cruelly treated, deprived of good air and good food, th' y 
have fevers, consumption, and other complaints. Son.e 
butchers kill them in this diseased state, and sell their flesh, 
which is unhealthv, and must do harm to the human being's 
who eat it. 

Owing to our ignorance, we often have to sit in rooms 



6 THE AIK WE BKEATHK. 

which are filled with this impure air, which poisons onr 
blood. Fortunately, some of this poison is able to get out 
through our mouths in the breath and through our skins in 
sweat. You know on a summer's day, when you have run or 
walked quickly, how the water runs down your face and you 
feel wet all over. Now, this sweat contains some of the same 
gas that comes out of your mouth. It is deadly poison. Even 
during the winter, when our hands feel quite cold, there is a 
great deal of this steam coming out of our skin. It is called 
invisible perspiration or sweat, because you cannot see it. 
When it runs down your face, it is called visible perspiration, 
because you can see it. I think you will be astonished when 
I tell you that in winter as well as summer, if we are in health, 
more than two pints of perspiration ought to come out daily 
through our skin. There are thousands and thousands of little 
holes in our skin, smaller than the point of a needle. Each 
of these little holes leads into a little pipe of twisted skin, 
like this model of 'a sweat gland, made of glass, which I hold 
in my hand. It is through these little pipes that the sweat 
is carried and runs out through the little holes in the skin. 
It is said that if all these little pipes of flesh, called sweat 
glands, which are in one person could be pulled (mt straight, 
and fastened together, they would reach a distance of twenty- 
eight miles. Now, supposing that all these thousands and 
thousands of little glands were shut up, so that the two pints 
and mdVe of sweat could, not get out, what do you think 
would happen ? Why, you v/ould die, as the following story 
will prove. 

A long while ago, in Rome, there was a grand feast or 
festival. People were drawn about in carriages ornamented 
with flowers. Somebody thought that one of these carriages 
would look most beautiful if a little boy, dressed like an 
angel, could be placed in the middle of it. They covered 
the whole of his body with gold, and fastened on to his 
shoulders a pair of gold wings. The little fellow was con- 
sidered to look very lovely. When his mother went to see 
how the little angel looked next morning asleep in bed, she 
found he was dead. The gold had completely closed all 
the pores, or little holes, in his skin, and therefore he had 



THE SK'IN. 

been poisoned by the sweat and carbonic acid that could not 
get out. 

All four-footed animals have pores and sweat glands, just 
as we have, except those which have a bony covering. If you 
were to varnish a guinea-pig — that is, cover it all over with 
paint — it would die for the same reason that the littif Roman 
boy died. The sweat could not get out. 

It is very important to know that both air and liquids can 
enter these holes in our skin as well as come out of them. 
Sailors who have been cast on a rock for three or four 
days have been [)reventcd from dying of thirst by knowing 
that, if they kept wetting their clothes in the sea watei", the 
water would get through these holes into their blood. It 
would have been impossible for them to drink the sea water 
because the salt in it would onl}'- have made them more 
thirsty. Fortunately the salt does not enter the skin, only 
the water without the salt. 

A gentleman was once so ill that he could neither eat nor 
drink anything, and must therefore have died. The doctors 
managed to keep hirji alive for two or three days by putting 
him frequently into milk baths. The milk got through the 
pores of his skin and nonrislied his body. After this time ho 
was able to eat and drink, and soon recovered. 

A grewt deal of oily matter likewise comes ovA of the skin, 
and it is owing to this oily matter that it is quite impossible 
to get the dirt off your hands and face unless you use soap. 

Soap mixes with oil, but water will not. A working- 
woman who attended some of my lectures last winter told 
me that she had often been ' fair capped ' to find that she 
could not get off the dirt unless she used soap, ' but now,' 
she said, 'I understand the reason why, and au) very much 
obliged to you for telling me.' I hope you will never forget 
to wash yourselves well every morning and night with plenty 
of soap and water. 

T/ii'iKjs prodded for tJio Lucturn. 

Marshall's diagram of tlie heart and lungs, and. Auzoux's model of the 

heart. 
A large sheet iipon which the death-roll and the laws of health were printed 



8 THE AIR WE BREATHE. 

A drawing of u small piece of the palm of the hand, with threesweatp \nrl? 

blown in wliite glass suspended from the pores. 
The words ' Oxygen Gas ' written in large red letters, ' Carbonic Acid Jas' 

written in bluish-black letters on two sheets of calico. 
Two glass bottles filled with oxygen ^as. 
Two glass bottles filled with airbonic acid gas. 
Common matches and a candle. 

A high tumbler into which to pour the carbonic acid gas. 
Experiments with carbonic acid gas, to show how it extinguishes lighx and 

is so heavy a gas that it can be poured from one vessel into another And 

if poured over a lighted candle will extinguish it. 
All difficult words to be written large on a sheet, and the children • > be 

told to copy them at every lecture. 

Questions for the First Lecture. 

1. What is the name of the good air that gives heat and life to our 

bodies? 

2. What is the name of the bad air that comes out of our mouths? 

3. Why do human beings and dumb animals die if they are shut up in a 

room where no fresh air can come in? 

4. If .»n the sweat glands that are in our bodies were joined together 

how far would they reach, and how much perspiration comes out of 

them daily ? 
o. Wliy is it necessary that wo should wash ourselves daily with soap as 

well as water? 
6. If you were in a boat on the sea without any fresh water to drinh, 

how would you prevent yourself from dying of thirst? 



LECTURE ir. 

IMPURE AIR AND VENTILATIONS. 

I TOLD you last Wednesday that many thousands vf people 
now die in England every year from complaints they would 
not have if the laws of health were understood, and that 
thousands and thousands of people live to suffer all their 
lives because they have had fevers and other preventible 
diseases. Three or four hundred years ago a great many 
more people died of even more dreadful complaints than those 
we have now. I don't think yoti will be surprised at this 
when I tell you what dirty houses people lived in, and what 



WHY WE ilAVE FEVERS. V 

dirty habits they had. London, wliich is now such a grand 
city, in tlioso days had only narrow little streets like Fleece 
Lane in Leeds. Fleece Lane, you know, is so uarrow that the 
sign of a sheep which is hung up just reaches from one side 
of the street to the other. In London they used to have a 
great many similar signs, which were suspended across the 
streets and prevented the fvesh air from passing through 
these dark places. To make matters worse, the streets also 
contained pigsties and middens. They had no fireplaces ; the 
wood was burnt in the middle of the room, and the smoke 
escaped as it could. Carpets they had none, only straw, 
which was allowed to remain for more than ten years ; every 
now and then a fresh quantity was put over the old straw, 
and at last it was all thrown out into the narrow dirty streets 
I have already described. 

Fevers are caused by some poisonous matter which floats in 
the air, or which has got into the water we drink. It is only 
about a hundred years since Dr. Priestley discovered this 
wonderful oxygen gas of which there is so much in the air we 
breathe. He was a very scientiHc man, and lived for some 
years in Leeds, where he had previously discovered carbonic 
acid gas. Most people thoaght, before that time, there was 
nothing in the air, because they could not see anything. I am 
thankful to tell you that at this present time in England some 
of our cleverest men are spending their whole time in trying 
to find out all about the air we breathe. They have already 
discovered so much about it that they can w^eigh air in a pair 
of scales just as you would weigh sugar or tea. They have 
such powerful magnifying glasses that by looking through 
them they can see the things that are floating in it. They 
have long been able to look into water and discover what it 
contains. 

Now, in this little bottle of water there are a great many 
living things. Neither you nor I can see them now ; but if 
you look through this magnifying glass, which is called a 
microscope, you will see them, and will find among them 
creatures like that drawn on this sheet called the Amoeba. 

These very small things called 'germs' are the beginning 
of life in all plants and animals. There are animal germs and 



10 THE AIR WE miEAIHE. 

vegetable germs. You. all know German jeast, or brewer's 
jeast, whiclij'our mothers put, into the flour to make the bread 
rise.^ Kow, if j-ou could look at that yeast through a micro- 
scope, yon Vv'ould Cud it is made up of millions and millions of 

Tia. 2. Fig. 3. 




Microscopic Tlant— Yeast Plant. llicroscopic Animal— Amrpbn,. 

little germs, or seeds, like this. A thousand of them will 
grow in a mimite from only one seed. 

The very simple microscopic animal of which I have 
showed you a drawing, is called the Amoeba ; it grows quite as 
quickly as the yeast plant. T must tell you that the yeast 
plant and the Amoeba are both harmles.^ to man. There is 
life in everything we ent or drink and in the air we breathe. 
I conld show you that there is life in sugar, vinegar, 
cheese, &c. 

There are germs and little creatures of two kinds. Some 
are wholesome, like the germ in yeast and like the Amoeba ; 
others are nnwliolesome. The germs that are in good arr and 
good water are wholesome germs, but those that are in bad air 
and bad water are poi.^onous, and when they get into our blood 
they give ns fevers, cholera, &c. The air that comes from 
drains and middens is full of poisonous germs : they breed also 
in any dirt that is allowed to stand for a long time. 1 am 
glad to tell you that directly the oxygen which is in fr^^sh 
air mixes with them, and the Ibnl air which is their food is 
removed, they die. 

You see I have a. grey substance in this bottle which is 
called permanganate of potash. It is very cheap, though it 
has such a long name. Now, this stuff contains a great deal 

' Here I showed some vcast. 



WHY WK HAVE FKVIJRS. H 

of oxygeu. If you were to put any clothes IVom a person 
who had had a fever into a tub of water with some per- 
manganate of potash in it, all the poisonous germs that had 
come from the body of the sick person would be killed. Here 
1 have some water which has some permanganate of potash in 
it. You see that its colour is a beautiful deep purple, and I 
will put some of it into this pure water. The colour remains 
as bright as ever. Now I will put it into some water that 
contains a poisonous substance, and you will see that the 
colour immediately flies, and the water will look a dirty 
yellow. What a blessing it is we can get this wonderful 
oxygen gas without paying for it ! All we have to do is to 
open our windows and doors and let it rush in, and then it will 
drive away and kill all the fever germs. 

Daring those times I have just told you about, when 
people had such dirty habits and suffered from dreadful fevers 
in England, how do you think they treated a poor man, or 
woman, or child, who had a fever ? They used to shut them 
up in a room, and close the windows, so that not a breath of 
fresh air could come in. The bed clothes were never changed ; 
all the poisonous matter that came out through the skin as 
sweat and oily matter was allowed to remain and collect, so if 
ngain entered the blood through the pores of the skin and 
poisoned it more and more. Blankets were put upon them 
tt> make them sweat. When the unfortunate person became 
mad with the fever and the treatment, he was tied down to the 
bed. No wonder he died. Even the doctors, as a rule, in 
those times did not understand anything about the laws of 
health. They used to treat people in the small-pox just in 
the same way. 

In 1 731, more than a hundred years ago, small-pox was 
very bad at a place called Blandford. There were 150 persons 
ill in one hospital. One night — it was summer-time — a fire 
broke out. All the sick people were carried out and put into 
the fields under bridges, under hedges, anywhere, and there 
they remained three days and three nights. Everybody ex- 
pected they would die directly, but instead of that they all 
r^ot. well, except one poor girl, who was nearly dying when the 
fire broke out. How delig:htful it must have been for the 



12 IMPURE AIR AND VENTILATION. 

poor creatures to have plenty of fresh air blowing npon tbcm, 
instead of being shut np in close rooms. 

It is most important that no clotlies should be kept in a 
room where anyone has a fever. If I were a poor woman with 
six children, and had only two rooms to live in, and found one 
of my children was sickening for a fever, I should immediately 
take all the clothes out of the drawers, bundle them up in a 
parcel, put them into the other room where I lived, remove 
every bit of curtain and carpet, open the window at the top 
about two inches, or break a top pane of glass if it would not 
open, see that the fireplace was open, or, if it was not very 
hot weather, light a small fire. Then I should warm the bed 
give the child something hot, and send for the doctor. 

Germs float in the air, settle npon the furniture and the 
w^alls, and get caught in articles of furniture, carpets, bed- 
clothes and wearing apparel; they live best in woollen 
materials, which seem to keep them warm and feed them. 
Cobwebs are of a silky nature, and cases have been known 
where one cobweb has held sufficient germs to give a fever 
over again. It is right on this account that a nnrse should 
wear a cotton dress. 

I will tell you a story that will prove how well wooller 
material will retain the germs of a disease. During those 
ignorant, dirty times in England long ago a dreadful com- 
plaint, called the Plague, used to rage. It visited England 
many times in the course of several hundred years. Directly 
it was known that anyone had this complaint, no one would 
go near him ; he was allowed to die alone — so great was 
the dread of it. In a village called Eyam in Derbyshire, in 
1666, a tailor lived, named George Vicars. One day he 
received a box of clothes from London, containing snch 
articles of clothing as coats, trousers, &c., all made of wool. 
He opened the box, and spread these things out to air before 
the fire. As he stood watching the clothes dry he felt sick. 
The heat of the fire no doubt brought the germs to life, and 
they floated about in the air, and he breathed or swallowed 
them. The next day he was worse, and on the third day a 
black spot appeared on his breast. Then he knew that he 
had the Plague. He died that night. No doubt people went 



WHY WE HAVE FEVEUS. lb 

to his funeral and into the house to see the corpse. Those 
clothes, too, which had come from London, as well as his own, 
would be worn by different members of his family. In a few 
w^eeks after the funeral the Plague broke out in this beautiful 
little village. The people became so terrified that they wanted 
to run away to other towns, but the clergyman, a good and 
brave man, Mr, Monpesson, persuaded them to remain, so that 
the Plague might not spread to other towns. Nearly all the 
people died. Still Mr. Monpesson remained and did all he 
could. At last he lost his wife. The churchyard became so 
full of graves that no one dared to enter it or the church, so 
it was closed. On a Sunday the people used to pray oiit in 
the fields. If you ever go to Eyam, you will see a little 
cave in a rock which is all covered over with ivy. It was 
there that Mr. Monpesson used to perform the service to the 
few whose lives had been spared. Though nearly two hun- 
dred years have passed since those dreadful days, there are 
people at Eyam who will tell the story I have told, and a great 
many other most interesting facts about the Plague. 

The germs or poison of scarlet fever can live in woollen 
materials for several years. A little girl died of this fever ; 
ner favourite doll was put by in a woollen dress. Three or 
four years afterwards a little cousin came to pay a visit at the 
house, and the mother, to amuse the little girl, brought out 
the doll. Not more than a week elapsed before the poor 
child vv'as seized with scarlet fever. It is very wrong of 
mothers and fathers to send their children to school when 
they are recovering from scarlet fever. During that time the 
skin peels off, and that skin is full of germs, and one boy or 
girl in this state can spread the fever through the whole 
school. The hair of the head, being of a woolly nature, may 
hold the gerrns for a considerable time, unless it be well 
washed with hot aoap and water and permanganate of potash. 

I am now going to tell you how we can ventilate a room — 
that is, make the air fresh and free from all infection. You 
will perhaps think that you could make the air fresh by open- 
ing a window. I will show you that you cannot make the 
air fresh unless you have an open fireplace as well as an open 
window. 



14 l.Ml'UHE Alll AX1> VENTILATION. 

You see this little kettle with the steam coming out of the 
spout. Why does the steam rise up instead of falling down ? 
Because hot air is much lighter than cold air. Our breath 
also rises like steam, because it is warmer than the air about 
us. If you remember, I told you that if I had anyone ill 
in a fever I should open the window at the top or break a hole 
in a top pane of glass, unless it was very cold, but in any case 
if there was no chimney in the room and the room was small ; 
that was because I wanted to allow the carbonic acid gas, which 
is light when it is warm, though very heavy when it is cold, to 
fly through the opening in the top of the window, or, at all 
events, to mix it with fresh air. Cold air is always running 
after hot air, for as the hot air rises cold air rushes in to take 
its place. If you heat the air in a room by means of a fire, the 
warm air will go up the chimney, and cold air will come in to 
fill up the gap ; so hot and cold air are always chasing each 
other. Do you not know, when you are sitting by a fire on 
a cold winter's night, how the wind whistles through the key- 
holes, pushing its way under the door ? It is only because the 
cold air is rushing after the hot air escaping from the room. 

I dare say you have all been at home on a washing-day, 
and seen the room full of steam. You will find that if you 
open the bottom part of the window the steam will not go 
out of the room, but if j'ou open the top about two inches 
it will fly out quickly enough. Tell your mothers abont 
this. Directly the steam gets cold at the top of the room, 
it falls down like rain, and covers the furniture and clothes, 
so that they become wet. A mother told me once that 
her little boy often suffered from bronchitis after a washing- 
day, but on following my directions about opening the top 
of the window the child did not suffer from his old attacks. 
It is dangerous to sit in a room with the bottom part of 
a window open, as it often causes a draught to blow directly 
vipon you ; but you do not ieel the air when it comes from 
a window that is open a little at the top. In oijr house 
we all sleep with our windows open at least an inch at the 
top both summer and winter, and we never take cold. The 
room feels so fresh when we awake in the morning because 
the carbonic acid gaa has been able to make its escape. 



WHY WE UAVI-: FEVliHS. 15 

1 will now tell you a story which will prove that there 
ought to be a fireplace in every bed-room as well as sitting- 
room. In 1782 seventy-three pauper children, between 
seven and fourteen years of age, were sent to a new house 
in Golden Square, London. Twenty of these children (girls) 
slept in a room together. In fourteen days ihey began to 
have dreadful pain, were sick, and became delirious. The 
doctor could not imagine what caused the illness, as there 
were eighteen girls who slept in the next room, and they 
were all well. The doctor ordered that the sick girls should 
be moved into a much larger room, where they recovered. 
They found out that the chimney of the room in which 
the girls had first slept was quite closed up with bricks. 
The window and door being also closed, the carbonic acid 
gas conld not escape, and the air had become so bad that 
it had poisoned their blood. Now, do remember, all of yon, 
to take care and see that the chimneys of your rooms are not 
stuffed up with bags. 

When we take lodgings at the sea-side, directly we go 
into our bed-rooms we look up the chimneys. I am sorry 
to say we generally find they are quite filled up. They say 
it is to prevent the dirt from coming in. Then we have to 
order that the bags be taken away. If you have no fireplace 
in your room, be sure you have the window a little open at 
the top. You now understand why it is good to have a fire 
in a bed-room where there is sickness, because it causes the 
cold fresli air to rush in through the room after the warmer 
air that is escaping up the chimney. 

Directions hoiu to attend to a sick person's room, so that the 
germs uf infection may nut escape into the next room, or he 
spread hy sendinij the dirty bed linen and clothes (>ut to he 
Hashed. 

Remove the carpets and all the furniture that is not quite 
necessary. 

Keep an earthenware pan in the room filled with clean 
water that contains a proper quantity of permanganate of 
potash. Directly any bed linen or clothes requiie to be 
washed, put them into this water for five or ten minutes, or 



16 IMPURE AIR AND VENTILATION. 

into boiling water, if there is no permanganate of potash, as 
no poison germs can live long in boiling water. If water is 
only ivarmed it makes them grow more quickly. Washer- 
women and their families often lose their lives by fevers taken , 
from clothes that have come straight from the body or bed of 
an invalid. I cannot understand how people can do so 
wicked and so cruel a thing us to send poor washerwomor 
clothes in this dangerous state. 

Instead of sweeping the floor, use a damp mop. A 
great deal of woolly matter collects under all beds : so take it 
all away with the mop. Dnst the furniture with a clean 
damp duster that has been wrung out of the pan of water. 
If you dust any room vvilli a dry duster, and do not very often 
shake it out of the window, you had much better not dust at 
all, for you only make the dust fly about in the air you breathe ; 
after a little time it will all settle on the furniture. A packet 
of permanganate of potash that costs one shilling will make 
twenty gallons of water sufficiently strong to destroy all germs 
of disease. One teaspoonful will make two gallons. Great 
care must be taken to mix the powder until it is quite dissolved. 
It is sold by all druggists. 

N.B. After a fever or any infectious complaint, all bedding 
can be purified free of expense, if a post-card be sent to the 
Inspector of Nuisances. He will be only too glad to send for 
the things immediately, and place them in the hot-air appa- 
ratus, which will kill all germs of disease, without injuring 
the bedding. They will be safely returned directly they have 
been purified. 

Things provided for the Lecture. 

A picture of a microscopic animnl and a vegetable germ. 

Some German yeast, to show what the yeast plant is like. 

A bottle of water containing life which is invisi Lie to us. 

A microscope. 

A bottle containing a solution of permanganate of potash. 

A bottle containing some decomposed organic matter. 

One bottle of oxygen gas. 

Questions for the Second Lecture. 
1 What are germs, and how can you kill them? 

2. Why is it dangerous to send a child to school when it has had 
scarlet fever and the skin is peeling off? 



THE SKELETON. 17 

3, If a room were full of steam, how would you send it out ? 

4. How would you bring fresh air into a room and send the bad air 

out; that means, ventilate a room? 
6. Why did people have dreadful fevers and the plague 200 years ago ? 

Expenments. 

Pour some of the solution of permanganate of potash into pure water; 
the purple colour will remain bright. 

Pour some into the bottle containing organic matter; the colour will be 
changed to a dirty yellow. 

Fill a bottle with water and place it with its mouth downwards on a stand 
in a tub of water. Then put a glass tube to the mouth, and ask a child 
to come and breathe through it. The water will be soon displaced by 
the air charged with carbonic acid gas that comes from his lungs. Put 
a cork into the bottle while it is quite under water. Now take the 
bottle out, remove the cork, and put in a lighted taper; it will be 
immediately extinguished. 

Put a taper with a spark of light into the bottle of oxygen gas, and it will 
instantly burst into bright flame. 



LECTURE III. 

THE SKELETON. 



Before I begin my lecture to-day I must tell you abont a 
society there is in Leeds for the prevention of cruelty to 
animals. Several ladies and gentlemen who cannot bear to 
see dumb animals unkindly treated, give their money and 
engage men whoso duty it is to go about and see that horses, 
donkeys, and all dumb animals are well used. This society 
has heard that I am going to give you some information 
about dumb animals, and they have offered to present three 
prizes for the best answers to twelve questions I intend to 
give you when I have finished this course of lectures. 

After my last lecture about impure air you will see that it 
is impossible for human beings to be healthy and strong 
unless they have plenty of fresh air. I will try to-day to 
make you understand why good air is equally necessary for 
dumb animals. Horses, cows, sheep, dogs, birds, and all 
animals except man were made to live night and dayin the 



18 THE SKELETON, 

open air, and wander abont in search of food. Birds, for 
instance, fly many hundreds of miles in a day in search of 
food. We take them and shut them up in cages so small 
that there is scarcely room in them to move, much k-ss fly. 
These cages are often hung up in close rooms or by a window 
where the sun shines so strongly that ihe poor birds pant for 
air and long to fly into their shady woods, where it is cool 
and dark. I think it is very cruel and selfish to keep any 
animal shut np just for the pleasure of looking at it, or in 
order to hear it sing. Even men who are considered to be 
educated do not understand that all animals will die in air 
that has no oxygen. This I will prove by the following 
story. 

In the Zoological Gardens in London are to be seen 
animals which have been brought from foreign countries ; 
monkeys among the rest. They are very delicate, as they 
come from hot countries, where they live out in the woods. 
A great number used to die every winter, because our climate 
was too cold for. them. Some gentlemen determined that 
they would build new monkey-houses, and make them so 
warm that it would be impossible for them to feel the cold. 
To their great surprise, more monkeys died than ever in these 
snug abodes. At last it was discovered that, as every little 
hole was filled up, no fresh air could enter. The poor creatures 
had been poisoned by their own breath — overchargeni with 
carbonic acid gas, 

I told you in my first lecture that an immense number of 
people die every year owing to our ignorance of the laws of 
health. For the same reason you will find that an immense 
number of animals most valuable to man die every year — the 
cow, for instance. Let us see how many difierent kinds of 
food we get from the cow alone : milk, cream, butter, cheese, 
and beef; veal comes from the calf, or young cow. Butcher's 
meat and all these kinds of meat are very dear. The farmers, 
who ought to take care of their cows, don't understand that 
they require as much care as human beings. Cows die by 
thousands of consumption every year in the British Islands. 
Consumption is very often caused by breathing bad air. A 
veterinary surgeon in Leeds (that means a doctor who tries tc 



THE SKELETON. 19 

cure cattle) told me the other day that whenever he was sent 
for to see cows that were ill of fever or consumption, he found 
them living in horribly dirty stables, and when he told the 
farmers that they must clean the place by taking ont the dung 
and whitewashing the walls, &c., they only laughed at him. 
The greatest care, of course, ought to be taken of all animals 
who furnish us with food. If they are not healthy when the 
butchers kill them, their flesh will of course be bad for us 
to eat. 

Pigs have a dreadful complaint called measles. People 
who have eaten their flesh, which, you know, is pork, ham, 
and bacon, have taken this disease, and died after suffering 
great agony. Pigs get this disease owing to their not having 
been kept clean and properly fed. Sheep also die by thousands 
of measles and all kinds of diseases. All this ignorance has 
helped, in a great measure, to make butcher*s meat very dear, 
because the cattle have become so scarce. We are now obliged 
to fetch them from foreign countries. 

You have all heard of the cattle-plague ; it was brought 
from Russia. There they treat their animals just as we do. 
For a long part of their journey these poor creatures are 
carried by railway in dirty carriages, so closely packed that 
they can scarcely move, and then they are driven and 
huddled together on board vessels, and suffer terribly at sea. 
Very little food or water is given them on the journtjy and 
voyage. Even healthy animals so treated would become 
unliealthy during their long journey. Don't you think it is 
quite right that we should suffer for our ignorance and 
cruelty, as we do, by having to eat diseased meat, and also by 
losing our own cattle, to say nothing of what they have 
to undergo ? This is all I shall say about dumb animals 
to-day. 

I shall now describe the human skeleton. You see I hav3 
a picture of the skeleton of a man here. 

Our bones are the foundation, or frame, on which our flesh 
is supported. You see by this outer line where the flesh 
ought to come.' There are more than two hundred bones in 

' Marshall's diagram, No. 1, page 20. 
c 2 



20 



THE SKELETON. 



the skeleton. Our frames consist of three parts : the head, 
the body or trunk, and the arms and legs. 



Fig. 4. 




A front view of the himnan skeleton. The line that is dra\\ai round the skeleton shOWB 
where the flesh would come in a life figft.re. 



THE SKULL. l[ 

I will first tell you all I can about the head. When I say 
the head, I mean the head and the face also. The bones of 
the head and face are twenty-two in number, and they form 
:the skull. This is a very strong box of bone ; I hold one in 
my hand. It is the skull of a young man. You see that the 
top of it is round, not flat ; it is in the shape of an arch. Now, 
an arch is the strongest shape in which the skull could bo 
made, just as an arched bridge is the strongest shaped bridge 
which can be made to bear the heavy loads that have to pass 




The bones of the head, •which consists of the cranium, and face : 1, frontal bone ; 2, left 
parietal bone ; 3, left tcmpciral bone ; 4, right upper jawbone ; 5, lower jawbone ; 6, right 
cheekbone. This figure also shows the two eye-sockets, or orbits, the opening leading 
into the right and leit nasil or nose-cavities, and the arrangement of the teeth in tho 
jawbones. The head has eight-, and the face fourteen bones. {From Nature.) 

over it. You know that men can carry very heavy things on 
the top of their heads. Why do you think our skulls are so 
strongly made ? Let us see what they contain — our eyes 
with which we see, our ears with which we hear, our mouths 
where we eat our food, the nose which enables us to smell, 
and then our brains! Without brains we should have no 
reason or power of thinking. Our skulls therefore hold 
our senses of seeing, hearing, taste, and smell. It is a very 
precious box, I think. There are, as I have just said, twenty- 



22 



THE SKELETON. 



two bones from the face to the back of the head. If you were 
to see the skull of a baby, you would be able to find out where 
the bones join, and you could see how curiously many of them 
fit into each other, like two saws that joiners use to saw wood 
with. These bones are either gristly or membranous for some 
time ; at about four years of age they become firm ; at seven 
they are quite hard and well joined together. A new-born 
infant has a very soft and imperfectly matured brain ; it can 
neither see distinctly, walk, nor talk ; all it can do for a great 
many weeks is to eat, sleep, and cry. Very few animals are 
born so helpless as a baby. By the time it is a year old its 
brain has grown to twice the size it was at its birth. What a 



Fig. 6. 




Haiman skull in a natural state. 

■wonderful little creature it is then ! It begins to walk, talk, 
and do a great many wonderful things, if it has a good and 
wise mother. A bit of brain grows every day, and then just 
enough bone grows to cover the new brain ; this is the reason 
why the bones of the skull are neither hard nor joined together 
when it is born. You will always find there is a wise reason 
for all the changes that take place as we grow older. 

I dare say you have heard of the I^orth American Indians. 
They are a w^ld race of men ; they do not live in houses nor 
wear clothes, as we do ; they think a baby's head ought to be 
made flat, and not left as God made it. So they put the little 
child into a kind of long tub and place a hard piece of stuff 
over its forehead, and then they squeeze it down tight with 
strings for some time, until it grows to be like this picture. 
The eyes nearly jump out of its head and are horrible to look 



THE SKULL. 23 

at. By beginning directly the children are born, the shape 
can easily be changed, as the bones are soft. 

1 am sorry to tell yoa that in England, where "we think we 
arc so clever and civilised, little babies are not mnch better 
treated than those of the North Americaa Indians. A great 
many English nurses have the same silly notions. They too 
think they can make the shape better ; so they often press the 

Fig. 7. 




The sknll of a Korth American Indian flattened in Infancy by means of pads placed oa 
the top and held down by strings fastened to the sides of a tub in which the child wa« 
placed. 

bones of the baby's head together. They must fancy it is a 
mistake that the bones are separated. Doctors do not kno'T 
half the ignorant things which are done when their backs aro 
tnrned. 

I hope, after my description of the skull and all it contains, 
yon will be careful and never strike each other on the head. 
A hard blow on the top of the head may take away both your 
mernory and yonr sight. People have often been blinded by 
such a blow. A severe box on the ears may make you deaf 
all the rest of your life. My youngest brother, many j-ears 
ago, tried to defend a poor woman who was being struck by 
her husband. The blow that was aimed at the wife fell on my 
brother's ear, and to this day his hearing has not been perfectly 
restored. 

Remember it is equally cruel to strike dumb animals on 
the head ; I constantly see horses, donkeys, and all cattle 
struck on the head by their masters, Avho want to make tho 
poor tired animals go faster. This is not the way to increase 
their £x»eed, for the. blow only stuns and stupefies them, so 



t^4 SKELETON — JOINTS AND MUSCLES. 

that they neither know where they are going nor what they 
are doing. 

Things ^irovided for the Lecture. 
A human skull. 

Marshall's diagram of the skeleton. 

A picture of the deformed head of an American Indian, and h picture 
of a naturally-formed head. 

Questions for the Third Lecture. 

1. Why do dumb animals require as much fresh air as human beings? 

2. Tell me some of the reasons why butcher's meat is very dear. 

3. What does the skull contain ? 

4. Why is it very dangerous to press the bones of a new-born infant'M 

head together? 

5. Why is it very cruel and dangerous to strike a human being or a 

dumb animal over the head? 



LECTURE IV. 

SKELETON— JOINTS AND MUSCLES. 

To- DAT I am going to finish my acconnt of the skeleton, I 
have still something more to say about the sknll. Under this 
bony covering there is a tongh membrane ; ' beneatli this is ti 
very thin, smooth, moist membrane, and underneath this is the 
brain, which is itself closely covered by a third membrane, 
chiefly composed of blood-vessels. The skull is covered by 
the skin, on which the hair grows ; under this are muscles 
and tendons, and under these is a membrane which is closely 
connected with the bones, I am very anxious you should 
understand and remember that the bones of the head and 
their coverings afford a very good protection to the brain, 
because some mothers and nurses who have unfortunately, 
never been taught physiology say that it is dangerous to 
wash a baby's head, because, if you do, the water will cer- 
tainly run through into the brain, and give the child the 
disease called wate? ."m the brain. You will now understand 

' A membrane is a kind of skin. 



THE HEAD. 



25 



that it would be quite impossible that such a thing shonld 
happen. 

In Poland there is a dreadful disease called 'plica 
Polonica,' which is generally caused by allowing the head to 
be very dirty. The hair becomes matted together and sticky 
and grows to a great length. 

A baby's head requires to be washed with soap and 
water more than any other part of its body. I will tell yon 
the reason why. You know there is a great deal of oily 




<:^^ 





c is the first bono or vertebra in the spin". It is a smooth ring, and is Tastenod to the 
bottom of the sknll just round the hole trhrough which tlie spinal cord comes out ; /is 
a side view of this vertebra, b is the second vertebra ; it has a curious piece of bone 
that stands up in the front : you cm sco it in c marlvPd a. c is the same hone seen 
from the s^ide. We can turn our head both to the riglit side and to the left, because the 
top ring can move about on the second ring, and the piece of bone that stands up keeps 
the head in its place. It is very dangerous to lift a child up from the gronn'i by its 
head, for the top ring might be pulled oflf the tooth, and then a child or man would 
instantly die. d and e are the two first bones I have described placed one upon the 
other, g is the piece of bone coming through the top ring. 

matter in onr hair, and a great deal of this oily matter comes 
out, to nourish it, from the pores in the skin of the head. 
As we wear no covering to our heads unless we are out of 
doors, the dirt and dust in the air mix with the oily matter 
and form a kind of black paste. A baby's head requires to 
be kept cool ; for that reason it has generally no hair. The 



i^G SKELETON — JOINTS AND MUSCLES. 

sweat carries off the heat through the nores ; but if all tho 
pores are shut up, the sweat cannot get out, and the child's 
head grows hot and feverish. 

In England, Wales, and on the Continent, particularly in 
Italy and France, I have very often seen children with per- 
fectly black heads. By trying to remove this dirt when they 
get older, the mothers frequently give their children very sore 
heads. Now, if plenty of soap and water had b^en used from 
the first day, all this suffering would have been saved. 

The head rests on the spine, or backbone, which you see 
in this picture.' There are twenty-six bones in the spine. 
I have brought the seven bones that form the neck to show 
you. This is the top one, on which the head rests, and here 
is the second one, on which the head turns. This second 
bone has a kind of tooth or little spike. People should never 
lift a child up by its head, as by so doing they might perhaps 
lift the head partly off this little spike, and then the child 
would die instantly. 

There is, you see, a hole through each of the bones that 
form the spine. It is through these holes that the spinal 
cord goes, and it passes all down the backbone, or spine. 
Between each of these curious strong bones there is a little 
cushion of a substance something like gristle. You have 
seen the buffers that are placed between railway carriages. 
The railway buffers prevent the carriages from knocking 
hardly against each other. The little buffers between the 
bones of the spine also prevent them from knocking against 
each other and from shaking the spii^al cord, whicJi pa££jC3 
down from the brain. It is such a very delicate substance 
that even a violent shake has been known to injure it for 
life. You see there are twelve ribs on each side of the spine ; 
they begin below the neck, which is made of these seven 
bones, and, together with the narrow flat bone in front of the 
chest, called the sternum, cover the heart and the two lungs. 
All this part of the body is called the trunk. ^ 

I will describe what a joint is. A joint is the place where 
two bones join together. On the left side of the figure of the 
skeleton you see that the bones are all fastened together by 
' Marshall's diagram, p. 27, fig. 9- ' Marshall's diagram, No. 1, p. 20. 



WHAT A JOINT IS. 



27 



strong bands, called ligaments. Usnally the end of a bone 
which forms a joint with another bone is covered oyer with a 

Ftg. 9. 



^f/-\ 



K 



Half the skull and back- 
bone, to show how 
safely guarded both the 
brain and spinal cord 
are by their bony cover- 
ings, a, big brain ; 6, 



little brain ;*c, the spinal 
cord. This picture shows 
the different bones of the 
spine, and how it is 
curved to make it very 
strong. 



( 



TV 



28 



SKELETON — JOINTS AND MUSCLES. 



piece of gristle, called cartilage, and in those joints which we 
can move there is a bag between the two bones which con- 
tains a fluid like the white of an eg^, improperly called joint- 
oil. This joint-oil makes the movement between the bones 
more easy. Each of our fingers has three joints. The thnmb 
has only two joints, as yon can see, if you look at your hands. 
We have twenty-seven bones in each of our hands. When a 

Fia. 10. 




Back view of the bones of the left hand, showing the (8) small bones next to the wrisfc 
joint, (9) the bones of the palm of the hand, and (10) the bones of the fingeis, and the 
distinct portion and length of the thumb. 

person breaks a finger, and it cannot be used for some time, it 
becomes stiff"; the so-called joint-oil too has almost all gone 
away. And this is the case with all our joints ; if they are not 
used the joint-oil gradually gets less and less, and they become 
stiff". Now, between certain joints of each of the bones of the 
spine there is joint-oil, a little of which comes out every time 
we move our backs. The top bone of the arm fits into the 
shoulder-blade, and forms what is called the cup-and-ball 
joint. There is a good deal of joint-oil in the bag that covers 
the top of these bones. It is easy to pull the ball out of the 
cup, and this accident often happens to little children. It is 



THE HIP-JOINT. 29 

called dislocation. The ball is kept in the cup by bands of 
tough membrane called ligament, that pass from the shoulder- 
blade to the arm. These bands are soft and flexible, and so 
they enable us to move our arms freely, as in skipping oi 
turning the handle of a grinding-machine. 

Kurses ought to be very careful not to drag children along 
by one arm, or hold them up by their arms, as they fre- 
quently do. A doctor told me that he has often stopped 
his carriage to beg a nurse not to drag the child by its arm. 
His trouble was all in vain, for the nurse, he said, evidently 
thought that he knew nothing about it; and did not attend to 
him. He saw his own nurse swinging his little girl by her 
arm, and told her that by doing so she might put it out of 
joint. This did at last happen. When his family were away 
at the sea-side he received a telegram from his wife to beg he 
would come to her directly. When he arrived he found that 
the accident which he had often foreseen had at last happened. 
The nurse had been swinging the child by its arms, and had 
pulled the ball out of the cup. 

Let us next take the hip-joint. This joint is just like the 
cup-and-ball joint in the arm ; the only difference is that there 
is a strong ligament which passes across from the ball of the 
thigh-bone and is fastened to the cup of the hip-bone. This 
joint is plainly shown in this diagram of the skeleton.^ The 
thigh-bone is the longest, largest, and heaviest bone in the 
body. The bands or ligaments which bind the bones of the 
hip together are immensely strong, because all the weight of 
our trunk rests upon this joint. It is very difficult to cure 
any disease of the hip, as it is not allowed any time to heal, 
because we cannot move our bodies without moving the hip. 
It is very sad to see so many little children in our Leeds 
Infirmary who are suffering from hip complaints, and they do 
suffer most dreadfully. Doctors say children often get hip 
complaints from sitting on cold stones or damp grass, so that 
you must take care not to let your little brothers and sisters 
sit on anything damp or cold. 

I shall never forget going to the Leeds Infirmary once, 
when I saw a boy of about twelve who was suffering from a 

^ Marshall's diagram, No. 1, page 20. 



30 SKELETON — JOINTS AND MUSCLES. 

hip complaint. I went up to liira and asKed him what had 
caused it. He told me that one day, when he was playing at 
marbles in the streets, a big boy came np and wanted to 
tease the little boys and take their marbles from them. At 
last they quarrelled, and a number of lads took this boy by 
his arms and legs, and dragged him over the road. When he 
tried to get up and walk home he found he could not move. 
After suffering a long time at home he was taken by his father 
to the Infirmary, and then the doctors found his hip-joint was 
injured, his spine hurt, and his ankle-joints had been twisted. 
No boy, I am sure, would have been so cruel as to do this if 
he had only understood the dreadful sufferings his thoughtless 
conduct might cause. 

In diseases of the hip-joint people cannot bear the 
slightest shake. I had a dear little friend who died from a 

Fig. U. 




12 



Side view of the bnnps of the left foot, showing the projection of the heel at 2, the arch 
■vv'liich the bones make <at 3 ; th-^ strength of the bones of the great toe (9, 10. 11, 12) ; 
a is where the l<^g-l one joins the ankle. In the ankle, as in the wrist of the hand, 
there are several bones. 

complaint in the hip. If anyone walked .across the room in 
the very gentlest manner, she was thrown into an agony of 
pain. Mr. Wheelhouse told me it was no wonder she suffered 
so dreadfully, because the top of the ball, which is covered in 
health with a very soft covering, had come away and left the 
hard bone to scratch against the cup, in which there was an 
abscess. Nurses who don't understand about the hip-joint 
often scold children for crying when they are moved. 

The knee-joint '■ has a little bone that is placed over the 
front of it ; it is called the knee-cap : it guards the knee- 
joint. Little children constantly fall, and they would often 
be hurt if the little cushion which there is on the front of 
* Marshall's diagram, No. 1, page 20. 



THE FOOT. ^i 

this knee-cap did not save them when tliey fall. In women 
who kneel to scrub floors or &tone steps this little cushion 
often becomes very much inflamed. They ought to get a 
towel or some straw, and make it round, so that a hole is left 
in the middle for the knee-cap to drop into. 

I must now tell you how wonderfully our feet are made. 
There are a great number of bones and joints in the foot. The 
feet have to bear all the weight of our bodies. Very often you 
will see dancers stand on one foot, or even on the tips of their 
longest toes. The foot is made in the form of an arch, because, 

Fig 12. 




Natural foot. 

as I told you, an arch is the strongest form we can make. I 
hope you will never wear tight boots nor high heels, but those 
which have good broad soles ; and take care the soles are thick. 
I dare say you have often heard your mothers say to one of your 
little brothers, ' Now stand like a man.' It is a fact that no 
animal can stand erect upon its feet like a man. The ourang- 
outang can stand upright nearly, but it always stands on the 
outer edge of its feet, supporting itself in walking and running 
with its long arms touching the ground. Shoes ought to be 
made very wide at the bottom, so that we can stand firmly in 
them, and have plenty of room to move our joints about. The 
Chinese think it very vulgar for ladies to be useful and have 
natural-sized feet, so they bind a baby's feet, if it is a girl, 
with strong bands, to prevent it from growing. When they 
grow up, these poor ladies are scarcely able to move about. 
I must now describe the muscles. You see these bundles 



32' SKELETON — JOINTS AND MUSCLES. 

of flesh in this drawing ; ' they seem to be plaited over the 
bone of the arm. Each of these bundles of muscles contains 
perhaps three hundred little fibres, or threads, of flesh. When 
I use my arm I sometimes wish to stretch it out and make it 
long, and then I want to pull it up and make it short. The 
reason why I can do this is because all these little threads of 
flesh are both elastic and able to contract ; that is, they can 
stretch out and go together again, like this piece of india- 
rubber. We all ought to know how to make these muscles 
strong and firm, because, unless they are strong, we can do 
no work. There is only one way of making them strong, and 

Fn 13. 




Chinese foot, that has been pressed into this strange shape by bandages 
when the child was an infant. 

that is by using them. You have all seen a blacksmith work- 
ing in his shop. A blacksmith has to use his arms a great 
deal when he hammers out the hot iron. No man has stronger 
muscles in his arm than the blacksmith. Just ask one to let 
you feel his arm, and you will find that he can make it nearly 
as hard as the iron he hammers all day. In countries where 
there are no telegraph wires men carry the messages and run 
great distances, and the consequence is the muscles of their 
legs grow very strong. There is a very strong muscle that 
passes down the back part of the spine, and others which 
go down the front part of it. They keep all the twenty-six 
bones of the spine together, and they enable us to bend up 
and down, because they can stretch and go together again. 
If we don't use these muscles, our spines grow weak. When 
these muscles and ligaments are weak, or very often in conse- 

' MarshalTs dingram, No. 4, page 40, letter M. 



THE MUSCLES. 



83 



quence of a fall, the bones get out of their places, the spine 
becomes weak, and the back curved and twisted. In other 
cases, the bones become diseased, and then the back becomes 
bent or ' humped.' 

I dare say you have heard of a country called Greece. 
About two thousand years ago the Greek people were the 

Fig. M. 




This picture shows how the heart, lungs, liver, and stomach, are placed in the body. On 
the next pape is a picture which shows how these organs are pushed out of their places 
by tight lacing. 



handsomest and cleverest people in the world ; they made 
all the boys and girls learn a great deal, but they also made 
them run, walk, and play a great deal, because they said it 
was quite impossible to have a healthy mind if the body was 
weak. Perhaps you have been to what is called a gym- 
nasium, a place where people jump and do all kinds of 
wonderful things. We have no doubt learnt how to perform 
many wonderful feats by reading Greek books that told us 
how to do them. 

Boys are much better off than girls, for they play at some 



34 



SKELETON — JOINTS A2^ID MUSCLES. 



good game every day, either cricket or foot-ball. Girls have 
just the same muscles as boys, which cau only be made strong 
by constant use, and yet they are scarcely ever allowed to 
exercise them. The consequence is that women mor9 fre- 
qnentiy have spinal complaints than men, which make them 
helpless and causes them great suffering. J^"ot only are gir-ls 

1^'lG. 15. 




The organs pushed out of their places by tight lacing-. 



made to sit for hours every day in one position, at school cr> 
when sewing, without any rest to their spines, bnt they are 
made to wear stays, which prevent their muscles from moving 
about. Grecian women had beautiful figures, but they were 
not allowed to wear such barbarous things as stays. Their 
dresses were loose, and consequently very elegant. Here is a 
picture of a person who has worn tight stays (Madame Bodi- 
chon's drawing enlarged). You see the heart and lungs, and 



THE MUSCLES. 85 

other organs, are completely pushed ont of their places. A 
great many tailor3 and dressmakers die of consumption 
because they have to sit still so many hours, stooping over 
their work in bad air. I trust tailors will soon become too 
intelligent to think it is necessary they should sit on a board 
with their legs crossed and their backs bent. While going over 
a public institution the other day I was extremely sorry to see 
a master teaching little boys of ten and upwards to sit in this 
way. It is bad enough for men to sit with their lungs and 
other organs crushed up, but it must be much worse for grow- 
ing lads to have to remain in such a position for several hours. 
Not long ago an English doctor travelled through a part 
of Africa where he found that the women did all the hard 
work, and the men stayed at home and took care of the houses 
and minded the children. The women's muscles had become 
by this means much stronger than those of the men. This 
oxperience made him believe that women after all are not born 
weaker than men. It is only because they are brought up less 
sensibly than men that their frames are so much more delicate. 

Things ^iruvided fur the Lecture. 

A. piece of whalebone and elastic to show the difference between the 
stretching of the muscles and bending of the ligaments. 

Marshall's diagram of the skeleton. 

Marshall's diagram of the muscles. 

Madame Bodichon's enlarged picture of the organs distorted by tight 
stays, and her picture of them in their natural st<ate. 

A picture of a Chyiese foot altered by having been bound up. 

A picture of a well-formed foot from nature. 

Vertebrae of the neck, with a thick skein of white wool run through the 
holes to represent the spinal cord. 

Questions for the Fourth Lecture. 

1. How many coverings are there to the brain? 

2. Why is it more necessary to wash an infant's head with soap than 

any other part of its body ? 

3. Why is it dangerous to swing a child round by its arms? 

i. What must we do to make our muscle.s strong ? Why do more girl* 
suffer from spinal complaints than boys ? 



^ 



36 THE CLKCULATION. 



LECTURE V. 

THE CIBCULATIOK 



Before I begin to describe the circnlation of the blood I shonld 
like you to understand what an organ is. No doubt yon hare 
often heard people speak of the organs of the body. An organ 
is an instrument which does something. 

The organ of the body I am going to tell you about to-day 
is the heart.* I have brought you the same beautiful model of 
one which I had at my first lecture. This wonderful little orgau, 
or instrument, has to do a very great deal of hard work, as 
you will think, I am sure, when I tell you that it sends blood 
to every part of our body in about half a minute. We have 
at least forty organs, or places, in the body whei'e something 
is done, and the active part of each of these forty organs 
ought to be entirely re-made in about forty days. 

The forty different organs are made of different substances. 
Our blood also contains at least forty different substances. I 
have in these bottles some of those substances. I have chosen 
a few whose names you will all know — salt, soda, fat and 
other substances rich in sugar, iron, lime, phosphorus, albumen, 
and carbon. Perhaps you have never heard before the name 
of the last substance. I shall have a great deal to tell yon 
about carbon in all my lectures. Charcoal is almost pure car- 
bon. I have written on this sheet that coal, fat, sugar, starch, 
all contain a great quantity of carbon. The purest carbon is 
the diamond. The ring I have on my finger is made of pure 
carbon, because it is a diamond. If I were to put my ring 
into a very hot furnace indeed, it would bum as a piece of 
coal or fat will. It is mixed with no other substance ; and for 
that reason it is called an element, which means that it is made 
of only one thing. Carbonic acid gas sounds a little like car- 
bon, but they are very different things, as you will soon learn. 

Our bones are surrounded by two things — flesh and fat. 

' Eere I showed Auzoux's modeL 



SUBSTANCBS IN THE BLOOD. 37 

Xov flesh and fat are entirely different substances, and this 
I hope to make yon clearly understand before I finish my lec- 
tures. You see I have three bottles all standing in a row 
together. They contain lime, gelatine, and phosphorus. Here 
is a common match, that has some phosphorus at the end of it. 
Gelatine, which is glue, is made from bones by boiling them. 
Lime you often see your mothers use when they whitewash 
the walls or ceilings of your houses. Our bones are made 
almost entirely of these three things. All the 206 bones in 
the body ought to be firm and strong when a child is seven 
years old ; but if a child has not been fed on food that contains 
the three things 1 have just mentioned — lime, phosphorus, 
and gelatine — its bones will not be firm, and it will grow up a 
poor miserable little ricketty creature : its legs will be crooked ; 
its little frame will be too weak to support the flesh ; the bones 
Ln the spine will give way, and it will be deformed. You have 
all seen poor little men and women with big heads and small 
bodies. They are called dwarfs. A lady in Leeds not long 
ago counted the number of cripples, dwarfs, and ricketty chil- 
dren who passed by her house as they were coming from the 
mills. I dare not say how many she counted. 

It is no use to buy lime, gelatine, and phosphorus in a 
druggist's shop ; these three things must be in the food we 
eat, or else they will not make bone. There is only one kind 
of food that contains these three things, and all the many 
substance^ that the blood requires. It is milk. 

Here is the blade-bone robbed of its earthy matters, that 
is, of its lime and phosphorus, by soaking it in an acid, so that 
it appears somewhat as it would be if a child had not been fed 
on milk. You see it is quite soft. I can bend it any way, 
because it only contains the animal matter which gives us 
in boiling the gelatine, no lime nor phosphorus. It is said 
that for every rich man's child that dies poor men lose three, 
because their wives go out to work, or to nurse those rich 
men's children, and do not give their own babies the milk God 
intended they should have. 

I will now describe the circulation of the blood. When 
anything circulates it must set off from a certain spot, and it 
must return to that same spot again. Now I will prove that all 



38 THE CIRCULATION. 

onr blood leaves a spot, the bottom part of the left side of the 
heart, and returns to exactly the same spot after it has nourished 
Ti early every part of our bodies ; therefore it will have circu- 
lated. I wish to tell you that the heart can do this wonderful 
work in about three minutes. The heart of a man is about the 
size of his fist ; the heart of a baby is also the size of its fist. 
Our hearts, which are made chiefly of contractile flesh or 
muscles, are divided down the middle by a strong wall of flesh ; 
the good clean blood is all kept on the left side ; all the dirty 
blood is on the right side. Some big tubes, called arteries, 
carry all the good blood from the left side of the heart to every 
part of the body. I have written the word artery on this 
sheet, and painted it a bright red, because the good blood 
is a bright red, as it contains a great deal of oxygen 
gas. The arteries are very strong tubes ; they have three 
coats. In the outer coat there are some elastic fibres 
which permit the artery to stretch out lengthways. The coat 
underneath this has muscles which go round the arteries, and 
make them come together or contract. By this means the 
arteries keep stretching out and pulling in, and so force the 
blood on, so that it flies about to every part very fast. There 
is a third coat inside those I have described ; it is beautifully 
smooth, so that the blood may easily pass over it. 

I will now point out to you the large arteries in the lower 
part of the body. There are thousands and thousands of 
little arteries which spread out from the larger arteries to every 
spot of the body. Though the good blood flies along so 
quickly, it finds time to feed the forty organs with fresh stuff, 
and also to carry away the parts of the organs that have be- 
come worn out. I will tell you how this is done in the next 
lecture. Don't you think it is very wonderful ? Of course the 
blood at last becomes very dirty. Dirty blood would not feed 
the organs ; it would only make them unhealthy and diseased. 
How is the dirty blood to be carried away and made clean ? 

I will tell you how it is managed. Every artery has a 
servant that carries away the dirty blood up to the right side 
of the heart, through which all the dirty blood is sent on to 
the lungs. This servant is called a vein. It is a strong pipe 
of membrane, but not so strong as an artery, though it has 



ARTERIES AND VEIKS .^j 

three skins. I told yon that there were thousands of little 
arteries ; there must also be thousands of little veins, because 
every artery must have a vein fastened to the end of it in a 
very peculiar way, to carry away the dirty blood. All the 

Fig. 16. 



'1 






!rhis"dia^am sho\»'? the prent artery called the aorta separated from the h-^a-t. 1 is tha 
part of the artery that is fastened to the left side of the hear*-, wliere all the good blood 
is held. 2 and 2 are the arteries that carry the gool blood into the amis; 8 and 3, 
those that carrj' the blood into the head ; 4. artsry which divides into three brunches to 
feed the stnmach, liver, and spleen ; 5, arteries that go to the kidneys ; 8 8, aiteries 
that carry the good blood into the lower parts of the body and legs. 

veins in the body join together and make two big veins. 
They are to be seen in this picture (tig. 18, page 42, marked 
1).^ This upper vein, called the superior or upper vena cava, 
brings all the dirty blood from tho head and upper limbs, and 
this other below it, marked 2, called the inferior or lower vena 

* Marshall'* diagram, %. 16. 



4cr 



THE CIRCULATION 

Fia. 17. 




View of the chest (or thorax) and the abdomen. The front part of the diaphragm has 
been cut away to show the organs in the abdomen. The lungs have leen taken away 
from the chest ; only the heart h is left ; the bag (or pericardium) which holds the 
heart has also been removed. The heart is held by some large blood-vessels— namely, 
p, the pulmonary artery, that takes the bad blood into the lungs to be cleaned ; a, the 
great artery called the aorta, that carries the good blood to all parts of the body from 
the left side of the heart ; c, the gceat vein (superior or upper vena cava) that brings all 
the dirty blood into th 3 top room the right side of the heart from the upper parts of the 
body, and the other vein (inferior or lower vena cava), marked v, which brings all the dirty 
blood from the organs in th'f abdomen and the lower parts of the body also op into the 
top room of the right side of the heart. This vein is seen going through the diaphragm 
marked d. The left kidney (right in the picture) n, is seen in its natural position with 
its arteries and veins going into and out of it. Th ■ pipe or duct u, which carries the 
water from the kidney to the bladder, can be seen fastened to the bladder, which hes 
nearly concealed in the pelvis. The right kidney has been taken away ; it has also a 
pipe like the left kidney, i, the bladder, m, muscles. 



COURSE OF THE BLOOD. 41 

cava, is carrying all the dirty blood from the lower part of the 
body up to the heart. These two veins pour all the black 
dirty blood into the top part of the right side of the heart, 3. 
Remember there is a very strong wall of flesh that goes down 
through the middle of the heart, 6. Not a drop of blood can 
run from the right side into the lefb side of the heart. In the 
right side of the heart there are two rooms or chambers, 2 
and 3, and in the left side of the heart there are also two 
rooms, 10 and 11. All these rooms have most curious little 
doors, called valves, which open and shut. About three 
ounces of blood will flow into each room at a time, and then 
the little door will shut and not allow any more to pass in. 
We will now suppose that three ounces of dirty blood enter 
into the top room on the right side. When the door from 
the vein is shut behind it, the blood will flow through the 
other door, which will close in the same way. Directly the 
three ounces of blood get into the bottom room the wonderful 
little heart will pump it all through particular pipes, called 
pulmonary arteries, into the lungs, where it is made clean and 
of a beautiful bright red colour by the oxygen which the lungs 
ought to contain. The clean blood will then be carried by 
other pipes called pulmonary veins, to the top room on the 
left side of the heart. Three ounces will flow through the top 
door, which will then shut; the blood will then pass through 
the second door, which will then instantly close. Directly it 
reaches the bottom room the heart will pump it into this large 
red artery, called the aorta (p. 39), which will carry it by 
many branches to every part of the body. You see I have now 
brought the clean blood back to exactly the same spot it set 
ofi" from ; therefore it has circulated over every part of the 
body. I will show you the four rooms and the doors, or 
valves, in this model when the lecture is over. 

Before I conclude my lecture I will explain why it is that 
we hear our hearts beat. You see the heart comes to a point 
at the lowest part, where the two rooms are placed which 
pump up the blood. Now, the heart in pumping out the blood 
from these two rooms forces this pointed part against the ribs, 
and so makes that «3onnd or noise which we call the beating 
of the heai t. 



42 THE CIRCULATION. 




:4 



View of the heart with its several chambers exposed, and the largre hlood-vessels that 
either carry away the hlood from these chambers or brin? blood into Lhtm. 1, superior 
or upper vena cava ; 2, inferio" or lower vena cava ; 3, the upper chamber called the 
right auricle ; 4, the lower chamber called the ripht ventricle ; 5, the line marking the 
separation between the two chambers ; 6, the wall of flesh that separates the two sides 
of the heart, called the se[)tum ; 7, the pipe which carries away the dirty blood fiom 
the lower chamber, on the riglit side marked 4, into the lungs, and is therefore calle-J 
the pulmonary artery; at 8, the artery di\ddes and sends one branch into the right- 
Inng and the other iiito the left lung ; 9. the four pipos called pulmonary veins, because 
they bring the good blood back into the heart and into the upper chamber marked 10 ; 
12, the .sToat artery calle:l the aorta which carries away the good blood to feed ererr 
part of the body, from the left lower chamber, marked 11. 



Things 'provided, for the Lecture. 

Marshall's diagram showing the circulation. 
Auzoux"s papier-mA,chc model of the heart. 
Bottles of some of the forty substances contained in the blood. 
A sheet with all the difficult words used during the lecture. 
A blade-bone deprived by moans of an acid of its earthy matter, and on© 
properly nourished. 

Questions for the Fifth Lecture. 

1. What is an organ ? 

2. About how many different things does our blood contain ? What is 

the name of the only food that contains the substances necessary 
to feed the blood? 

3. Name the three things that almost entirely make our bones ? 
4:. What are the names of the pipes that carry our good blood? 
6. What are the pipes that carry our bad blood ? 

6. Describe the heart and all you can remember about the circulation. 



4;:; 

LECTURE YI. 

THE CIECULATION {contimted). 

1 ONLY described to you in my last lecture how the blood cir- 
culates through the body, or trunk, and the lower limbs. I 
must now tell you how it circulates through the head and arms. 

I wnll first point out the large arteries that take the blood 
up to the head. Of course, close by their side will be the veins, 
their servants, as I have called them, to carry away the bad 
blood. You all know how many precious organs the skull con- 
tains — the organs of sight, hearing, taste, and smell. We must 
not forget the brain, which gives us the power of thinking 
and doing what we wish to do. All these organs require a great 
deal of good blood. Directly the heart cannot pump up blood 
into the head the brain stops working, and then we lose our 
senses, faint away, and cannot remember anything. 

When the good blood is pumped from the bottom chamber 
of the left side of the heart some part goes up into the arteries 
that branch off into the arms and head and neck, whilst the 
other part goes into the trunk and lower limbs. After it has 
nourished the different organs in the head the veins carry 
away the dirty blood, and bring it all back into this large 
vein that is on the right side of the heart. Then, as you will 
remember, three ounces of it will flow through into the top 
chamber, or room, of tlie right side of the heart. Then it will 
pass through the little door, or valve, into the bottom room, 
from which it will be pumped into the lungs, where it will be 
made clean, and the colour will become a bright red. The 
blood will then be taken by arteries into the top room of the 
left side, where the good blood is kept, flow through the little 
door into the bottom chamber, where it will be squeezed or 
pumped out into the big artery called the ' aorta,' when it 
will fly along to every part of the body at a tremendous rate. 
This wonderful little organ will keep on working day and 
night. Should it cease its work for one minute we should die. 

I said I would tell you in this lecture where the blood run? 
out of the blood-vessels to feed the body and all the organ? 
(every pipe that carries blood is called a blood-vessel). You 



44 THK CIRCULATION. 

will be astonished to hear that not a drop of blood can pass 
through the walls or skin of either an artery or a vein. There 
are most wonderful little pipes called capillaries : they come 
between every small artery and vein and join them together 
by a sort of network of pipes. It is throngh the sides of 
these small pipes that the blood rnns out to feed the body and 
all the organs. The capillaries have only one skin, and are 
finer than a single hair of our head. 

You see these two glass pipes which are intended to repre- 
sent an artery and a vein, and between them there is a small 
twisted pipe. Now, it is the twisted pipe which represents a 
single capillary, through the cout of which the blood escapes. 
Though these little capillaries are very often much twisted 
about, there is always a passage or road through them, so 
that the blood from an artery can run through them to a vein. 
T will now pour into the artery what we will suppose to be 
pure blood. You see that the blood continues a beautiful bright 
red until it comes to the vein, when it becomes a dark bluish- 
black colour : the reason of this is that the oxygen gas and 
some of the good blood have run through the walls of the 
capdlary into the flesh to feed the body and organs, and the 
dirty blood, which is full of carbonic acid gas and worn-out 
stuff of the body, has come into the capillary and passed up 
into the vein. Certain materials in the good blood and the 
bad blood have changed places, because the good blood was 
light and the bad blood was heavy. A capillary won't allow 
two things that have the same weight to exchange places with 
each other through its skin. I will now show you a little 
experiment to illustrate this. Here is a pipe filled with some 
water that has sugar and a little red colouring matter in it. 
This end of the pipe is covered over with the same kind of 
skin that a capillary is made of When I hold this end down 
no water runs through the skin. I will now put the pipe into 
this tumbler of clear water that has no sugar in it ; therefore 
the water in the tumbler Avill not weigh so heavy as the water 
in the pipe, because there is sugar in the pipe- water, and for 
that reason the capillary skin will allow the heavy sugar-and- 
water to run through into the tumbler, and the clear water to 
pass up into the pipe. I should like a little boy or girl to 



THE CAPILLARIES. 46 

come up and taste the tumbler- water before I put the pipe in, 
just to be sure that there is no sugar in the tumbler. We 
shall soon see whether any of the pipe- water has run through 
the skin, because it is red and will make the tumbler-water 
red. This other pipe contains some sugar-and- water, and there 
is also sugar-and- water in this tumbler ; you will find neither 
of them will change places. A heavy gas and a light gas will 
change places with each other through the skin of a capillary. 
This balloon, which is made of the same kind of skin as a 
capillary, is filled with the heaviest gas — carbonic acid gas. 
In a short time you will see that the balloon will become nearly 
empty, because the carbonic acid gas will have passed through 
the skin into the air in the room, and the air in the room, 
which is light, will have entered the balloon. 

As it is only through the coat of the capillaries that the 
blood can pass out to feed the body, it is necessary that we 
should have an immense number of them, and they must be 
in every spot in our bodies. Directly the blood gets hot 
these little tubes grow bigger and swell with the heat of the 
blood, and so do the little arteries and veins between which 
they are placed. 

I will now explain to you why onr faces grow red — that 
is, why we blush. When we are ashamed or angry our faces 
grow hot. Then all these little pipes swell and more blood than 
usual runs through them into the flesh and skin, and so makes 
our faces appear very red. When we are frightened we grow 
cold. Cold makes nearly everything become smaller ; and all 
these little tubes, whether veins, arteries, or capillaries, grow 
smaller, very little blood can get into them and run through 
the flesh and skin, and our faces mnst naturally grow white, 
because there is scarcely any blood to be seen through the skin. 

It is much more dangerous to cut an artery than a vein, 
for you see that the blood pours from the heart into the arte- 
ries. If an artery was cut and you could not stop it, all the 
blood in the body would soon be drawn out. A string should 
immediately be tied very tightly above the cut in this way, 
that is, nearer to the heart, ^ to prevent the blood escaping 
through the cut. 

' Showed a red leather pipe with a cut in it and a black string tied above. 



46 THE CIRCULATION. 

A man was once reaping in a field, and cut the large artery 
in his leg. The blood jumped out in jerks, so much at a 
time. Doctors can tell at once, by the way the blood is jerked 
out, that it is an artery, and not a vein, that is cut, for the 
blood passes much more slowly and evenly through the veins. 
Now, the other reapers in the field crowded round him and 
began to cry out for help, which unfortunately did not stop the 
bleeding. A girl ran up to him, took off her garter, and tied 
it tightly round the part above the cut in this way, and it very 
soon stopped the bleeding. She saved the man's life, as he 
would have died before a doctor could have reached him. 
Every man and woman ought to learn how to act in case of 
such an accident. 

The blood in the veiris runs more slowly than in the arte- 
ries, about one-half or one-third more slowly, for in the veins 
the blood has much wider channels to travel through than in 
the arteries. At certain distances there are little doors in the 
veins which shut directly a certain quantity of blood has 
passed througli them, just aft the door in a mouse-trap closes 
when a mouse has passed in. These little doors sometimes 
become weak, and will not shut and open as quickly as they 
ouofht to do, so that the blood collects in the veins. Veins iu 
this state are called varicose veins ; and washerwomen and men 
who, like them, have to stand a great deal, suffer very much 
from this complaint. These veins are placed near the skin. 
The arteries are placed much deeper down, to prevent their 
being injured. Large arteries are very near the bones in a 
kind of little gutter. The best thing to do when anyone has 
a complaint called varicose veins is to keep the limb up as 
much as possible, and to rub the blood up, and help it to get 
through the little doors on its way to the heart. 

A maid-servant of ours had a very bad leg caused by these 
varicose veins. A doctor told me to let her wear some elastic 
stockings, that would keep the veins up, and she found they 
did her a great deal of good. In such cases you can see the 
veins with their black blood spreading out under the skin like 
the branches of a tree. 

Now, it is very dangerous for a person with a weak heart 
— that is, when those little doors in the heart do not open and 



ARTERIES AND VEINS. 47 

slint very perfectly — to run to catch a train, or to go quickly 
either up a lull or up a flight of stairs. The muscles which 
surround the veins move very quickly when we run, and they 
work the blood up towards the heart just as we do when we 
press the veins up with our hands. Blood then gets too 
quickly to the heart. The doors cannot open fast enough to 
let it pass through to the bottom rooms, where it is pumped 
into the lungs to be cleaned, and into the big artery to be carried 
all over the body. 

For many hundred years doctors were trying to discover 
how the blood was carried over the body. It was generally 
thought, I believe, that the arteries only carried a spirit or 
air. About two hundred years ago a doctor named William 
Harvey discovered the circulation of the blood — that the ar- 
teries carried the good blood from the left side of the heart, 
and the veins brought back the dirty blood to the right side 
of the heart, and so on. But he did not know anything about 
the capillaries ; he thought the blood ran out through the 
arteries and veins to feed the organs. In those times there 
were no magnifying glasses or microscopes which were power- 
ful enough to enable him to see the capillaries, which you 
know are too fine to be seen by the naked eye. When Harvey 
had been dead several years, very powerful microscopes were 
invented, and Malpighi was then able, with their help, to see 
that at the end of every small artery there is a network of 
fine little pipes, or capillaries, as they are called, which is also 
united at the other end to a vein. 

Quadrupeds, or four-footed animals, and birds, have hearts 
like ours ; but in reptiles there are only three rooms in the 
heart, and in fishes only two. By means of a heart their blood 
is also carried through arteries, veins, and capillaries. The 
skin in a frog's foot is very transparent, and so thin and clear 
that you can see through' it, and watch the blood flying 
through the capillaries that are twisted about. Blood looks 
white, not red, in them. Doctors often place the foot of a 
live frog under the microscope. Of course you could not 
see the circulation unless you looked through very powerful 
glasses. There is only one skin to a capillary, and therefore 
wo can see through it. It would be impossible to see 



4j8 the circulation. 

throagli au artery or a vein, because they Lave throe 
skins. 

I will now show yon a model of the chest containing the 
two lungs, and the heart lying between them. I will point 
out the large artery called the aorta, and I will show you the 
two large veins that bring the dirty blood back to the left side 
of the heart, called the upper vena cava and the lower vena 
cava. This time I will open the heart, and let you see the 
doors or valves that lead into the bottom rooms. 

Things 'provided for the Lecture. 

Marshall's diagram showiiip; the circulation. 
Grlaes artery, vein, and capillary. 
Auzoux's paper-mAcli«^ model of a heart. 
A spirit lamp. 

1. To show what is called osmosis, I had a small glass tube which con- 
tained pink-coloured water with some sugar in it, the top of the tube 
being covered with a thin membrane. This I first placed in a tumbler 
of water which also had sugar in it, with the top of the tube downwards : 
the liquids being of the same density, no exchange took place. I next 
placed it in a tumbler of clear water, when both sugar and colouring 
matter came through the skin which covered the top of the tube, and 
sweetened the water in tne tumbler, whilst water also passed into the 
tube. 

2. To show that an exchange tiikes place between gases of different densi- 
ties I have a small balloon made of a thin membrane filled with carbonic 
acid gas. The gas escapes through the membrane and leaves the balloon 
with a .'^mall quantity of ordinary air. 

To show how to stop au artery I tied a string above a ^ut that was made 

in a soft red leather tube. 
A sheet with all difficult words written large for children to copy. 

Questions for the Sixth Lect%re. 

1. As no blood can run through the coats or sides of an artery or vein, 

how does the blood get out to feed the body and the forty organs ' 

2. Why do our faces become very red when we are ashamed, or white 

when wo are frightened ? 

3. If an artery was cut, how would you stop it from bleeding? 

4. Why is it dangerous for people who have heart complaints to run tc 

CJitch a train or to go quickly up a hill or up a flight of stairs ? 



49 

LECTURE VII. 

RESPIRATION. 

i AM going to-day to explain how the heat in our bodies is 
made, and how the blood is cleaned in the Inngs. 

I told you that charcoal is nearly pare carbon, and that 
fat contains a large quantity of it. Here is some charcoal in 
this bottle ; you see it is a black substance. I have a candle 
here ; there is a great deal of fat all round the wick. The 
wick of a candle is only made of cotton. I will now turn 
some of the fat which is in the candle into carbon — a black 
sabstance. I must have heat first, or I could not make tlie 
candle change at all : nothing can be changed without heat. You 
must all of you remember this. The candle is now lighted and 
very hot, and I will hold a white plate over the top of it, and 
you will see that the plate will become very black. If I held 
it long enough all the candle would have burnt away, and I 
should have a great deal of this black substance. You will 
say that that black stuflp is only smoke, the same that comes 
I'rom all the chimneys in Leeds when coal is burnt ; and so it 
is exactly the same substance as the smoke and the soot that 
sweeps come and carry away in large sacks when they have 
swept our chimneys. It is very wrong that so much carbon 
shoald be wasted, for it is not at all necessary. A careful 
engine-driver will not allow any smoke to come out of his 
chimney; he burns every bit of coal he puts on his fire. 
Watch and see the next engine that is passing by, and you 
will find that only steam, which is water turned into gas or 
vapour, not smoke, comes out of the chimney. What a plea- 
sant town Leeds would be if we had no smoke ! We should 
be more healthy, and also save our money as well as use less 
coal. Coal, it is said, is growing very scarce. 

I have a spirit-lamp here. Pure spirit contains only a 
little carbon. You see the wick of this lamp is much larger 
than the wick of a candle. You will find when I light it, that 
the wick will not grow black like the wick of a candle, nor 

E 



50 RESPIRATION. 

will the white plate become covered with smoke when I hold 
it over the lamp, because I have not been burning fat, but 
spirit, or alcohol. 

When you burn anything I dare say you think the thing 
you have burnt is quite destroyed — that it is no longer to be 
found in the world — but you must never think that any more. 
God does not allow us either to destroy or to waste any of the 
matter that He has made. By burning we only change the 
thing we burn into something else. I have now burnt about 
an inch of this candle — that is, I have turned a great part of 
that inch of fat into this black stuff, and I have also made 
some carbonic acid gas. Carbon is very fond of oxygen gas. 
Directly they come together hot, they make a great deal more 
heat, and very often a flame of fire. 

Here is a bottle of oxygen gas, and here is a piece of char- 
coal which is nearly all made of carbon. The charcoal is hot, 
you observe ; I will put it into the oxygen, and you will see 
what a bright flame and what a great deal of heat is made. 
This candle has just a little spark of light on it. I will put it 
into this other bottle of oxygen, and it will also burst into a 
flame, and cause great heat. This bottle, you know, was full 
of oxygen a minute ago, and made the lighted candle bum so 
brightly ; but the oxygen and carbon have joined together, 
and have made a new substance, carbonic acid gas. There is 
no free oxygen left. The bottle is now full of carbonic acid 
gas ; this I will prove to you, for directly I put a lighted 
candle into it the light will go out. If a great many candles 
are burning in a room they will fill the air ^v^th carbonic acid 
gas, because the carbon in the candle will join with the oxygen 
that is in the air of the room and make carbonic acid gas. The 
flame of one candle will require as much oxygen as a man 
needs to keep his blood pure, and the candle will also make 
.-in equal quantity of carbonic acid gas. There is a great deal 
of carbon in gas. One gas-light will use as much oxygen as- 
three men, and make three times as much carbonic acid gas. 
No wonder that people feel very sleepy and faint in theatres, 
workshops, and churches, which are crowded, badly ventilated, 
and lighted by gas or by a great many candles. In nurseries 
where children sleep, or in bedrooms — particularly where in- 



THE LUNGS A\D VVINDPIl'E. 51 

>ralids are placed — gas onglit not to be used, unless the room 
is large and very well ventilated. 

ISTearlj all the heat there is in the world, and nearly all the 
heat we have in our bo4iea, is made by oxygen and carbon 
joining together. Our b^ood contains a great deal of carbon 
and an immense quanl'^y of oxygen. I will now explain 
where the oxygen jneeln the carbon in our bodies, and how 
the blood is made clean ?.nd hot in the lungs. 

First of all I must tell you about the lungs and wind- 
pipe. We have two Inngs ; one lies on each side of the 
heart. This is a merciful arrangement, as, in case one lung 
becomes diseased, there is another left. People with only 
one healthy lung hav'i been known to live for a long time. 
Each lung is covered by a bag of membrane, which is always 
kept moist, so that it can move easily about. The heart, that 
lies between them, is also held in a moist bag of membrane. 
The lungs and heart are protected and covered by the ribs 
and the breast-bone. The back and front of the chest are 
lined by the same membrane or skin which covers the lungs. 
It is called the ' pleura.' You have heard) perhaps, of a com- 
plaint called ' pleurisy.' This complaint is caused by an in- 
flammation of the skin that lines the chest and covers the 
lungs. Sometimes only one of the two bags which hold the 
lungs becomes inflamed, occasionally both. When both are 
affected it is, of course, much more serious. The two lungs 
are quite separated from each other. 

Next I must describe the windpipe. By the word wind- 
pipe I mean the pipe that leads down from the mouth into 
the. lungs. The windpipe is wonderfully made. Here is a 
picture of it.* There are strong rings of gristle that nearly 
go round the pipe ; they are fastened to a band composed of 
flesh that runs down the back of the windpipe. If there were 
not these firm little rings to keep the windpipe stretched out, 
the sides of the pipe might fall together, and then no air could 
get into the lungs. A windpipe is a very good name for this 
tube, for it carries all the wind, or air, through the nose and 
mouth down into the lungs. When this curious pipe gets 

' See diagram, page 52. 



bZ ILESri RATION. 

down some way, it divides into two tubes, oneof svliieli, called 
tbe right bronchns, goes into the right lung, and the other, 
called the left bronchus, into the left lunpf, and tlien from 
each of these thousands of little pipes, called bronchial tubes, 
branch out like the branches of a tree, only the branches 
gradually get smaller and smaller, until they become very 
fine, but not so fine as the hairs of our head. They end in 




«r larynx, the tox -where the voice is made ; b, windpipe (or trachea), i i? a long in 
its natural state. On the other side is seen a lung, c, that has had the fleshy part (vrhich 
is like a piece of sponge with thousands of little holes) taken away, so that the air-pipes, 
or bronchial tubes, which carry the air into the little holes, may be seen. 

fine little pipes, to which are fastened little cells or air- 
bladders.^ Each one of these air-bladders looks like a small 
white grape. There are, it is calculated, about six million 
^'ittle air-cells in the two lungs. 

You have all seen a piece of honeycomb ; I have a piece 
here. It is said that tlie lungs are very like a honeycomb. 
Now all round the outside of these air-cells there are very fine 
little pipes, the capillaries of the lungs, into which the dirty 

' I here showed a fine glass pipe whieli had a glass ball at tbe end 
of it. 



HEAT OF THE BLOOD. ^ 53 

filood comes to be made pure. It is said that if all the little 
pipes, or capillaries, that are placed close together round the 
air-bladders were fastened together, they would reach across 
to America and back — five thousand miles. So you may 
fancy what an immense quantity of dirty blood can be put 
into them, though they are so fine and small. 

I told you there was a great deal of carbon in the blood. 
Every time we take in a breath of good air oxygen flies down 
through our nose, and mouth too, if it is open, into the wind- 
pipe, and then into these little pipes (called bronchial tubes), 
and then enters into these little air-bubbles at the end of each 
tube. The air, especially the oxygen, gets through the coats 
of the air-bladders into the blood — that is, into the capillaries 
which lie all round the outside of the air-bladders. As this 
oxygen goes into the blood from the air-cells, carbonic acid gas 
passes from the blood into the air-cells : and so the blood is 
made pure and bright. When, again, this oxygen meets 
with carbonaceous matters in the blood or in the body, it and 
the carbon meet, join together and make a great deal of heat 
and vapour, but not a flame, or we should be burnt up. So 
that th« oxygen that runs down our windpipe not only makes 
a great heat when it unites with the carbon of the blood, and 
of all the tissues of the body, by which the heat of the body is 
kept up, but it turns the dirty dark blood into a bright red 
colour, and makes it pure and clean. There is a great deal 
of oxygen in the arterial blood in the body. When this 
oxygen flies through the coats of the capillaries it meets with 
its dear friend carbon in every spot, for there is a great deal 
everywhere. They join together and make a great heat, and 
produce carbonic acid gas. 

The heat in our bodies is almost always the same, summer 
and winter. The hands and feet and face are all much colder 
in winter than in summer ; the blood gets colder just in those 
parts of the body which are not covered over with clothing. 
The cold air makes the capillaries very small, so that less 
blood can get into them. Doctors find out by this little 
instrument which I hold in my hand, called a thermometer 
that the blood has always the same heat, summer and winter, 
if we are well — that is, about 98 degrees and a half. It is a 



54 RESPIRATION. 

little hotter in some parts of the boclj than in others. The 
word ' thermometer ' means a measurer of heat. Yon gee 
that there is a little glass pipe running down the middle df 
this thermometer. Bj the side of the pipe are dark lines, 
and each of the spaces between these lines is called a degree : 
and there are figures which mark the number of degrees. At 
the end of the pipe you see a little glass ball. It is full 
of a substance called mercury, which looks like silver. 
I have often told you that heat makes nearly everything grow 
bigger, and cold makes nearly everything smaller. Now, 
mercury is a substance which grows hot and cold very 
quickly. Let us see where the mercury now stands. It is, I 
see, opposite 60°. The air in this room is therefore sixty 
degrees. Now I will put the thermometer into boiling water, 
which is much hotter than this room, and you will see that 
the mercury grows so big that it will run up through the 
little pipe nearly to the top, and stay by a figure that is 
marked 212° ; and you will see written opposite to that figure 
' Boiling-point.' The mercury tells you how hot or how cold 
the air of a room is, or any substance we put it into ; it tells 
us the water is at boiling-point. When we give anyone a hot- 
water bath, we always ought to have a thermometer and put 
it into the water to tell us the proper heat. If the mercury 
goes beyond the proper heat for a hot bath, it will be too hot. 
Children are often put into water a great deal too warm. 
They are not only nearly scalded, but very much weakened, 
by the gre^t heat, all because the nurse trusted to finding out 
by her hand instead of using a thermometer. Some hands 
that are accustomed to be a great deal in hot water become so 
much hardened that they are quite unable to tell the heat 
that a bath ought to be. The doctors, when they want to 
find out the heat of the blood, don't put the thermometer ol 
the hands or face, but they put the little ball filled with 
mercury under the tongue or on some part of the body which 
is well covered up, and where the cold air cannot get to chill 
the blood. It is most important you should understand about 
a thermometer, for unless you do you will not be able to 
understand when I tell you how to cook food. 



THR THBRMOMETER — HEAT OP THE BLOOD. 55 



Things provided for the Lecture. 



A thermometer. 

A candle. 

A spirit lamp. 

A white plate. 

Diagram of ■windpipe. 

Two bottles of oxygen gas. 



Some pieces of charcoal. 

A glass windpipe and bronchial 

tube with air-bubble. 
Stodmann's model of the chest, 

page 59. 
A piece of honeycomb. 



Questions for the Seventh Lecture. 

1. Why do people feel sleepy and faint who sit in a room where there 

are a great many candles or gaslights burning? 

2. What is the name of the pipe that carries all the air we breathe 

into our lungs? Tell me all you can remember about it. 

3. If all the blood-vessels or capillaries of the lungs were joined 

together, how far would they reach ? 

4. How is the blood made clean in the lungs ? 

6. What are the names of the two things that join together in our 
bodies and make our blood warm and give us all our heat ? 

6. How do doctors find out the heat of the body ? What is the right 
way to find out the proper heat that a hot bath should be into 
which you are going to put a little child ? 



LECTURE VIII. 

RESPIRATION {con tinned). 

You learnt from what I told you in my last lecture that our 
blood is the same heat both in summer and winter. It is a 
curious fact that, if we were even to breathe air as hot as 
boiling water, our blood would still be exactly the same heat. 
Some years ago there was a man — Chabert — who was 
called the Fire King. He could go into an oven, the air of 
which was from 400° to 600°. He would stand in the oven 
five minutes, and it was found that when a thermometer was 
put under his tongue while he was in the oven, the heat of 
his blood was very nearly the same as when he entered it. I 
must tell you that he perspired immensely ; no doubt a great 
deal of the heat was carried off by the sweat which came out 
of his skin. Young girls are accustomed in France to go 
into large bakers' ovens when ^hey are at 183°, in order to 
attend to the loaves of bread. Though a great many animals 



66 RESPIRATION. 

have the same organs, and are made exactly like human 
beings, no other animal bnt man could perform this feat. 
Why ? Simply because he has reason, and has learnt by the 
use of his reason that as the bottom and sides of the oven are 
hot. he must wear thick shoes, or his feet would be burnt by 
standing on the hot iron. The same reason and intelligence 
enable men and womep. to live in very hot countries, such as 
India. There they find they must wear much lighter clothing 
than they put on in England, and that they must also eat 
different foods. Men, you know, can live in countries where 
the cold is so great that for nine months there is nothing to 
be seen lyit ice and snow, and the air is much colder than 
frozen water. There a man has to cover himself with skins 
of animals, which are the warmest coverings that it is possible 
to get. Very little cold can pass through them into the body, 
or heat inside escape from them. A man finds that there, 
too, he raiust eat and drink very different food from what he 
would do in a hot country. lu cold countries people are 
obliged to eat a greater quantity of fat, which contains a 
great deal of carbon, as you know. There is more oxygen in 
the same bulk of cold than of warm air. Do you not know 
how much more hungry you feel on a cold winter's day than 
you do when it is very hot on a summer's day ? For instance, 
when you have been out skating on the ice, have you not felt 
after a little time so hungry that you could eat anything ? In 
Russia it is said that a boy has been known to drink two quarts 
of train oil and eat several pounds of tallow candles in a day. 
I will now tell you something more about the windpipe. 
Tou see that this pipe (a glass one)' which I hold in my hand 
is intended to represent the windpipe. At the entrance to it, 
at the back of the mouth, there is a little door. Whenever we 
swallow any food, the little door falls down over the windpipe 
and prevents any food from getting into it. Whenever we 
are not swallowing the door is open, so that air may pass down 
into it. Now, all down the inside lining of the windpipe there 
are rows of exceedingly small little hair-like bodies, that sei"ve 
as brushes, called cilia. These cilia canuot be seen except with 

' I showed a glass model. 



THE WINDFIPK 57 

a microscope. They are always waving down and up. These 
little cilia in the windpipe serve to send up the moist secretion 
of the air-passages into the mouth. When we have a cold, 
you know, we cough ; these little brushes keep sending up the 
phlegm that collects in the windpipe. It is very dangerous to get 
anything into the windpipe, for there is no way to get it out 
but through the mouth. The windpipe only leads down into 
the lungs, and it could not pass through them. Many years 
ago Brunei, the celebrated civil engineer, while playing with 
his children, pretended to swallow half-a-sovereign. Unfor- 
tunately the half-sovereign really did drop down his windpipe, 
and there it remained for two or three weeks. During that 
time, the leading doctors in London tried to take it out in vain. 
As he was a very clever man, and had plenty of time for re- 
flection, he decided that he would use the following means to 
extract it : A plank of wood was brought, on to which he was 
strapped. He and the plank were turned very quickly upside 
down ; he kept his mouth open, and, as he expected, the quick 
motion made the half-sovereign fly out of his mouth. In case 
a child should get anything into its windpipe, one plan is to 
turn it with its head down, clap it on the back, and shake it 

The lungs of a large man can hold above eight pints of air. 
Of course the more fresh air we can get into our lungs the better 
our blood will be. When we walk or run we take in a much 
greater quantity of air than when we are still, because we 
breathe more frequently. We also become much warmer with 
exercise, because there is so much more oxygen to unite with 
the carbon. Girls sufi'er very much more than boys do from 
cold hands and cold feet, because they sit still a great part oP 
the day. I am sorry to say that a great many more women 
and girls die of consumption than men. Dressmakers, milliners, 
and school-girls not only sit still for hours together, but they 
frequently sit in bad damp air which gets no sun. Everybody 
ought to know a most important fact, that when the air is 
damp the sweat, which is poisonous matter, cannot get freely 
out of the skin, as the damp air prevents evaporation and also 
shuts up the pores. This is why people have rheumatic fevers 
after sleeping in damp beds or damp sheets. The damp bed- 
ding prevents the sweat from getting out ; the sweat nmst 



58 RESPIRATION, 

therefore remain in the blood, and causes the fever or cold. 
If the lungs are weak, the poison settles on them, and con- 
sumption is brought on. Damp shoes and stockings or damp 
clothes have the same effects ; they prevent the sweat from 
coming out of the feet. We little know how much rheumatism 
and suffering is caused by wearing thin-soled boots and damp 
stockings. This is how children who sit on damp grass or 
earth often get hip complaints. People who live in damp 
situations or damp houses are constantly having colds or ailing 
in some way. There is very little oxygen in damp air. 

Doctors now send some consumptive people to cold 
countries where the air is very dry and contains plenty of 
oxygen. In Iceland, it is said, people do not have consump- 
tion, though there they have only three months' summer and 
nine months' winter. Damp, impure air is equally bad for 
dumb animals. This is the reason why horses and cows which 
are kept in dirty damp stables die of consumption. The doc- 
tors say that the best way to prevent consumption is to wear 
warm clothing, take a great deal of exercise in good fresh air, 
and to eat plenty of fat food, such as butter, oil, cream, bacon, 
and fat. By these means the appetite will grow better, the 
organs be made more healthy, and the general health improve. 
When people understand this, they will give up buying quack 
medicines, send for a medical man, and carefully follow his 
orders. A doctor knows directly by listening to the breathing 
which lung is unhealthy. The great thing is to have advice 
before the disease has gone too far. When a person is suffer- 
ing from bronchitis, some of the little pipes, properly called 
bronchial tubes, that carry the air into the lungs, become in- 
flamed and partly closed, from cold or from checked perspira- 
tion. The air, therefore, cannot easily pass down through the 
tubes, and then the breathing becomes difficult. Directly any- 
one has this complaint, he ought to breath warm pure air, 
because warm air will make the pipes grow bigger, and then 
allow more air to pass down them. Cold air, you know, makes 
them small, and then the breathing becomes more difficult, 
because less air can get down. There ought to be a fire in the 
room night and day ; the air in the room ought not to fall 
lower than 60° nor be higher than 70°. Deaths occur from 



THE LTTNGS. 69 

allo.wiDg the fire to go out at night. It is possible to keep the 
air in a sick-room both warm and pure. It is very necessary 
that the air should be kept pure in bronchitis and in all capes 
of illness. I told you in the last lecture what pleurisy is. In 
consumption the lungs, which are like a honeycomb and have 
six millions of air-cells, become diseased and waste away, 
Some of the air-cells close up, so that no air can get into them; 
then people suffer from shortness of breath. I should like to 
make you in some degree understand the difference between 
consumption, bronchitis, and pleurisy. I have written down 
the names of these three different complaints, which you must 
copy. 

I hope by means of this model, ^ which I showed you last 
time, to make you clearly understand that the chest, called the 
' thorax,' which contains the two lungs and the heart, is en- 
tirely separated from the lower part of the body, called the 
' abdomen,' by a very strong muscle. When the lungs are 
filling with air, the ribs rise up like the sides of a pair of bel- 
lows, and make a great deal of room, so that the lungs may 
swell out. The ribs cannot, like the bellows, however, press 
out all the air. The lungs always contain a great quantity of 
air. There is a skin that lines the back and front of the chest. 
It is this skin which is called the ' pleura,' and which be- 
comes painful when people have ' pleurisy.' Here are the 
two lungs, which are each placed in bags of the same moist 
skin that lines the chest, and is called the ' pleura.' They are 
quite separated from one another, and the little heart lies 
snugly between them in a bag also. Here is the strong band 
of muscles called the diaphragm, which completely separates 
the lungs and heart from the abdomen, and which sinks down 
directly we take in a breath, so as to make more room for the 
lungs. 

A great many children lose their lives every year from 
' croup.' If taken in time, this complaint would not be so 
fatal. A child who is going to have the ' croup ' is generalljr 
seized about ten o'clock at night (that is, when it has been in 
bed a few hours) with a difficulty of breathing, and the child 

' Messrs. Stodmann's model of the chest ; natural size. 



60 RESriRATlON. 

soon makes an odd sound in its throat, like the crowing of a 
cock. A piece of membrane grows in the windpipe, and 
prevents the air from getting into the Inngs. The only thing 
to be done is to send instantly for a doctor, and light a fire if 
it is cold weather. If a doctor is sent for in time he may be 
able to prevent this piece of membrane from growing in the 
windpipe. If yon wait at all, it will be too late, for the mem- 
brane grows so very quickly. 

An infant breathes very quickly, and its heart beats very 
rapidly, because the blood has to be pumped up very often 
into the lungs, to be made pure and warm by the oxygen it 
finds in them. There are three things that help to keep the 
blood warm — exercise, thought, and fat. We know that a 
baby has not much real fat on its bones, it cannot take any 
exercise, and it has not the power of thinking. When we 
think and study the blood goes more rapidly to our brains, as 
it always does to every organ of the body that is working. 
If a baby's head is kept hot it will dream and be feverish and 
restless ; it is not intended that its brains should work. For 
that reason great care ought to be taken to keep its head cool. 
A baby has generally no hair on its head when it is born, and 
the effect of this is to keep it cool. Nurses won't believe 
this. They will cover the head both by day and when it is in 
bed, in spite of all the doctors say. Every other part of its 
body ought to be kept very warm, or the blood will not be 
able to pass through the capillaries to feed the flesh. What is 
the use of feeding a child with good food if the food, when 
it is made into blood, cannot get out of the capillaries to 
feed the body ? Cold shuts up these wonderful little blood- 
vessels ; therefore a child will be pined ^ unless its limbs are 
covered up. 

It is very sad to see what ignorant ideas the richest and 
poorest people alike have about the way in which infants and 
children should be treated. I constantly meet the children of 
the rich and educated classes on a cold winter's day walking 
out very smartly dressed — hats covered with feathers and 
ribbons. Then I look down and see their poor little legs quite 

' • Pined ' is a Yorkshire word for starved. 



WARMTH — FRESH AlK. HI 

bare. These poor children are generally not allowed to mn 
and keep themselves warm, lest they shonld fall and injure or 
dirty their fine clothes. The nurse is often cross, and the 
children are cross, and the little things return home very cold 
and very unhappy. A beggar's boy, with his bare head and 
^is naked legs and feet, is much better oflf after all, because 
ke is able to run and enjoy himself, and by that means keep 
warm. 

More little girls die than boys every year. Mothers put 
their little boys into jackets and trousers at a very early age, 
because they like to see them look manly. The girls are left 
with bare arms and necks, because they are considered to look 
much prettier dressed in this way. The skin that is exposed 
bo the cold air gets chilled, and then the pores become closed, 
and the sweat is thrown in and poisons the blood and brings 
on illness. Every part of the body should be covered up, 
except the face and the hands, with some light woollen ma- 
terial which will not easily take fire. Fresh air is more 
necessary for a baby than for a grown-up person ; yet you 
constantly see mothers carrying their infants with a thick 
shawl put over their faces and mouths. If the blood becomes 
tilled with carbonic acid gas it will not move ; and directly the 
blood cannot get to the head all our senses fail, and we faint, 
or a baby will perhaps have convulsions. The only way to 
restore the senses is to take the persons into fresh air, and 
place them flat on their backs, with their head a little raised ; 
the oxygen will then fly into the lungs and make the blood 
pure and alive. 

A person who falls into water is suffocated, or drowned, 
because the water has filled his mouth and shut the little door 
down over the windpipe, so that no air can get into the lungs. 
The blood will not move from the lungs into the heart when 
it cannot have any oxygen ; therefore the brain can get no 
blood and will not work ; then the drowning person loses his 
memory and senses. The great thing is to get all the water 
out of his mouth. See that he has nothing tight round his neck 
or chest. Turn him instantly on his face, and place your hand 
under his forehead, and let the water run out which has gone 
down his throat ; then turn him round ; catch hold of his 



G2 RESPIRATION. 

tongue with yonr fingers— do not be afraid of hurting him — 
and pull it out as far as ever you can. Then tie a string, if 
you have one — or tear off a strip of your pocket-hand- 
kerchief — across the tongue and round the lower jaw, to 
prevent the tongue from falling back into the throat. If it 
does, it will shut up the opening into the windpipe, and no 
air will be able to get down. Until he can breathe it is not 
only useless but dangerous to try and warm his body. Turn 
him again on his face, to be quite sure that all the water has 
come out and the air-passages are all free. Then, when he is 
on his back, the head slightly raised, lift his arms up and down, 
because when the arms are up the ribs stretch out, and the 
lungs can hold more air. Do this several times, till you see 
he tries to breathe himself. Of course do not let people 
crowd round ; give him all the oxygen and fresh air you can. 
Then, if a house is near, carry him, with his head slightly 
raised, into it, and try to restore heat gradually by rubbing 
and hot blankets. Ignorant people always think the first 
thing they must do is to make the person warm. Now this 
is a very dangerous thing to do, because the blood cannot 
circulate until fresh air can get into the lungs. People have 
been known to come to life when they have been in the water 
for some time, because the heart may continue to beat very 
softly long after the senses and memory have failed. 

Directions about bathing will be found in Appendix I. 

Things vrovided for the Lecture. 

Stodmann's model of the chest containing the lungs and heart. 

A thermometer. 

Glass windpipe with epiglottis and bronchial tubes. 

Questions for the Eighth Lecture. 

1. Is the heat of our blood always the same jn summer and winter? 

2. Why do damp beds, damp clothes, wet feet, and damp, impure air 

give people rheumatism, fevers, colds, consumption, and other 
. complaints? 

3. Why do more little girls than boys die every year from chest com- 

plaint? 

4. What would you do it a person fainted? 

5. How would you try and bring back life to a drowning person? 



68 



LECTURE IX. 

THE BRAIN AND NERVOUS SYSTEM. 

The first part of my lectnre to-day will be npon the brain, 
which lies in the skull, and also about the nerves, which come 
from the brain. I shall tell you more about the nerves when 
I tell you about the senses. 

The skull, you know, is a very strong box made of twenty 
two bones, which are fixed together in the form of an arch 
above, as you see in this picture of a human skull. It rests 
on the top of the spine, or backbone. Here is a picture of the 
top part of the brain; you see it is divided into two equal 
parts. These two divisions are called the big brain. They may 
well be called the big brain, because they fill up the forehead, 
and the top of the head, and extend to the back of the skull. 
The proper name for this part is the cerebrum. You would 
not think, by looking at the picture of the big brain, that it is 
only one mass of brain, but it is possible to take the big brain 
and make it lie flat in one whole piece. 

I will just try and crumple up my pocket-handkerchief 
into folds, to try and make you understand why the brain 
appears as it does. These folds are called convolutions. A 
doctor could tell you a great deal about them. It is said that 
clever people have a great many more convolutions than 
stupid people. If you were to pinch or press the big brain you 
would cause no pain, as it contains no nerves of feeling ; but a 
blou would do it great injury, because it would take away all 
power of memory and thought. You know how a blow or a 
fall on the head will stun either a human being or a dumb 
animal, so that it forgets for a time all that has happened. A 
sailor once fell from the rigging of a ship on to the deck, and 
was taken up insensible. He remained insensible for several 
months at a hospital in Gibraltar. Apparently his body was 
healthy all the time, for he ate and drank and slept well ; the 
only motion observed was the constant moving of liis fingers, 



64 



THE BRAIN AND NERVOUS SYSTEM. 



and of liis tongue and lips when lie reqaired food. At last lie 
was brought over to England. Mr. Cline, a celebrated London 
surgeon, examined his skull, and found that a piece of the 
bone had been pushed in, and was pressing upon the big 
brain. The sailor had now been unconscious for thirteen 
months. Directly Mr. Clin« lifted up the piece of bone, and 
all pressure was quite taken away, the man ceased to move 
his fingers. A few hours after the operation he was able to 
sit up in bed. At the end of seven or eight days he walked 

Fig. 20. 




Diagram of the top part of the big brain, or cerebrum, showing how it is divided into 
two parts, also that the brain does not lie flat, hut is crumpled up into what are called 
convolutions. 

about and could remember and tell of all that happened before 
the accident, but he could not recall a single thing that had 
happened during his illness. 

I think if nurses could hear what I have just told you about 
the brain, they would never again venture to press the bones 
of a baby's head together. The part of the brain which looks 
in this picture like the branches of a tree, and is placed under 
the great brain, is called the little brain, or cerebellum, d. 
It also is incapable of feeling pain, but may be injured in the 
same way as the big brain by pressure. The nerves of feeling 
come from this strange- looking pai^t, e, which is placed under 
the little brain. ^ A part of this nerve-substance passes down 

' Marshall's diagram, No. 7. 



THE BRAIN AND SPINAL CORD. 



Go 



from the head ilirough the middle of the backbone like a 
white cord. It is called the spinal cord,/. You can see two 
small nerves that look like threads come ont between the 
bones on both sides of the spine, in the neck, back, and loins. 
There are thirty-one pairs of nerves ; they spread out like a 
fine network and reach every spot in the body.^ When you 
prick yourself with a pin it causes you pain, because tbe 
needle has touched a nerve. We have two skins. This outer 
one has no nerves in it, as you will find by rubbing it, or by 

Tig. 21. 




Half tlie brain, o, inside view of the big brain, showing the convohitions, or how the 
brain is crumpled up ; o is the part where the two halves of the brain are joined to- 
gether ; d, half the little brain, showing the curious white threads, like a tree {arbor- 
viue), that run through the grey matter of which the little brain is made ; e, medulla 
oblongata ; /, part of the spinal cord. 



scratching it very gently with a pin. Directly the pin passes 
through it you feel the pain, because the nerves are placed in 
the second skin, called the true skin, under the first. Then 
in some parts of the body there are no nerves ; for instance, 
the tips of our nails, which are not fastened to the flesh, do 
not feel pain w^heu w^e cut them. The hair on our head has 
not any ; that is why it can be cut like the nails and feel no 
pain. 

We have a great many more nerves in some parts of our 

• Marshall's diagram, No. 7, fig- 22, page 66. 



66 



THE BRAIN AND NERVOUS SYSTEM. 



bodies than in others, as the lips, tongne, feet and hands ; the 
tips of our fingers are very sensitive ; they are provided v/ith 



Fig. 22. 



Front view of the con- 
tents of the skull 
and the spinal cord, 
with an the nerves 
that go from the 
bottom of the brain 
up into the head, 
Buch as the nerves 
of Bight, hearing, 
taste, smell, an J 
the nerves that 
come out ©f the 
spinal cord as it 
passes down 

through the back- 
bone, called als^ 



^;| 



the vertebral 

column. a a, the 
two halves of the 
big brain (cere- 
brum) ; b, Utile 
brain (cerebellum) ; 
1 to 9, the nerves 
of smell, sight, hear- 
ing, taste, Sic ; n», 
medulla oblongata. 
All the other nerves 
pass out to different 
parts of the body 
between the bones, 
or vertebrae, of tba 



Mi 



!^J 



SPINAL CORD AND NERVES. 
FlQ. 23. 



67 




View of the nerves. They look like fine white threads, and spread like network over 
every part of the body. They can be seen going to every organ and muscle to make 
them move and do their work. A, the heart ; ,i, part of the stomach ; i, piece of the 
bowels , k, kidney. This kidney is the right kidney, tliougli in the picture it appears 
to the left. 



68 



THE BRAIN AND NERVOUS SYSTEM. 



a great many little nerves. It is by this means that blind 
people are taught to read with their fingers. The sense of 
touch is so delicate in the tips of the fingers that blind people 
have been known to distinguish difierently coloured materials, 
and to do many very wonderful things, by the sense of touch. 



Fia. 24. 




This diagram shows the different shapes of some of the bones that are joined together 
and n)ake the backbone or spine. Each of these bones is called a vertebra, a and 6 
are the same bone, only a is seen sideways and b from the top ; it is one of the seven 
bones that make the neck, e and d, seen in the same way, represent a vertebra taken 
from the middle of the backbone, e and/, seen in the same way. show a vertebra from 
the middle part of the loin. The pointed part that stands out in all the bones is placed 
outside ; the round smooth part lies inside the body, as will be seen by looking at fig. 9, 
page 27. 

It is said that tho most intelligent animals are those whose 
sense of touch is the finest. The parrot is the cleverest bird, 
the pads of its toes are so sensitive. The elephant is the most 
sagacious of quadrupeds ; the end of its trunk is so sensitive 
that it can feel and handle objects almost as well as we can. 

All animals which have a bony or cartilaginous skull have 
brains and a backbone, or vertebral column. It is called a 
vertebral column because each of these little bones by which 
it is made is called a vertebra.^ All animals which have » 

' I showed two or three of these bones. 



VERTEBRATE ANIMALS. 



69 



vertebral colnmn are called vertebrate animals, and many of 
them have organs like those of a human being, though they are 
not all placed in the same way. In some animals, however, 
certain organs are absent ; in others they are represented by 



Fig. 




Vertehrate animals have the same organs as human beinga. This picture shows how tha 
different organs are placed in a weasel, m, mouth ; b, brain ; t, windpipe ; p, Inngs ; 
h, the heart ; /, liver ; i, intestines and stomach ; s, spinal cord. 



organs performing a similar office, but having a different 
structure. Fish, for example, breathe by means of gills ; they 
have no lungs. 

I have brought pictures of the skeleton of a horse, a bird, 
a fish, and a reptile, and you will see that they all have a 
vertebral column, or backbone, and a bony skull.* Here is a 
frog. You can see its heart and other organs, and its foot, 
that doctors often put under a microscope to show the circula- 
tion of the blood through the capillaries. The frog is a most 
useful and curious creature, but I cannot now tell you more 
about it. When I take you to the Museum you shall see all 
the animals I have talked about. 

The animals I am going to say something about to-day 
are the horse and the donkey. Look at the horse's skull, and 
you will see that it has a very difierent shape from the skull 
of a man.2 The horse's skull is flat at the top, and has a very 
small ' great brain.' All animals except man have a very 
small quantity of brain at the top of the head. You know it 



* Skeleton of a horse, page 72. 

* Show a human skull, or picture of one, page 21. 



70 THE BRAIN AND NERVOUS SYSTEM. 

Fig. 26. 

Gills. 



Heart. 



Intestinc-s 




" Kidnqn. 



Vertebrate anTmal, because it has a bony skull and backbone. 

is that part of the brain which gives us the power of reason- 
ing, and ought to make ns superior to all other animals 

Horses are very intelligent and have excellent memories. 
They never forget those who are kind to them, and can be 
made to do anything by a master they love. On the other 
hand., a horse does not forget those who have treated hin^ 



VERTEBRATE ANIMAL;^. 



71 



cmelly, and will refuse as long as lie can to obey them. He 
is courageous, and will do his best to defend a friend who is 
weaker than himself. There was once a small dog that had lived 
a great deal in a stable. One day a big mastiff attacked him. 
Directly the horse saw this he went up, kicked the mastiff 
away, and sent him flying, and then walked by the side of his 
little friend till he considered him quite safe. They were in a 
field when this happened. 

Fig. 27. 




Birds are vertebrate animals. 

This is a picture of an ostrich ; it has a bohv skull and a backbohSk 



Horses have so much affection that they have been known, 
it is said, to die of grief on losing a kind master or an old 
companion. They are very timid and nervous animals ; there- 
fore we know their bodies are well provided with nerves. A 
thunderstorm has made them tremble all over like a leaf. The 
reason why horses shy at objects on the road is because they 



71 



THE BRAIN AND NERVOUS SYSTEM. 



firc afmid of them. Directly they nnderstand what the object 
is their fear passes away. 

The nerves of the horse, like the nerves of a human being, 
come out from between the bones of the spine, and spread into 
every part of the body. 

Fig. 28. 




Skeleton of a horse, -which is a vertebra t animal, because it has a bony skull d, and 
backbone, or vertebra, jolumn, marked b, c, d, k. 



I told you that we had a great many more nerves in some 
parts of the body than in others The soles of our feet have 
so many that we can scarcely bear to have them touched. 
People have been tickled to death ^ in some countries this has 
been one way criminals were put to death. I am now going 
to tell you how wonderfully a horse's foot, called a hoof, is 
made. If you look at the feet of a horse you will see they 
are no big^.er than our feet^ though they have to bear so great 



NERVOUS SYSTEM OF A HORSE. 73 

a weight. I will now show you the model of one which I 
have in this box.^ You see it has not five toes as we have ; it 
has only one toe, ending in a solid piece, which supports the 
hoof. There are only three other animals that have a foot in 
one piece. They are the donkey, the zebra, and the qnagga. 

Horses and donkeys live wild in hot countries where there 
are great plains of sand, as well as in countries where there 
are wide tracts of grass. Our roads in England are so very 
hard and stony that it is considered necessary to put iron shoes 
on their feet to prevent them from being injured. They do 
not wear shoes in their own countries, such as Arabia, Persia, 
and America. 

The poor donkey is a beautiful animal in its own country. 
The Persians bring up the little foals upon milk, and let them 
live in their tents as the Arabs do their horses. A donkey is 
said to be more sensible and gentle than a horse before it has 
been made stupid by cruel treatment. The mors tense an ani- 
mal has the harder it is to manage after it has been unkindly 
treated. Donkeys are sold for more than a hundred crowns 
in the East, where princes and nobles ride on them. The 
Prince of Wales had a beautiful one sent him from Egypt. 
In Spain they grow tall — fifteen hands high — and are some- 
times sold for a hundred guineas. It is said that five hundred 
pounds was once given for an ass in Rome. 

You see by this model of a horse's hoof that all the front 
part of the foot is covered by a horny substance, the same 
kind of substance that our nails are made of. The horse's 
hoof is really like our middle toe, much enlarged. This horny 
substance is nearly an inch thick ; it grows as quickly as our 
nail does, because at the top of the hoof there are a great 
many arteries and capillaries that feed this horn with blood 
and make it grow quickly. It grows downwards. It is 
smooth and bright, and looks as if it had been polished ; this 
polish prevents any water from getting through. The under 
part of the foot is called the sole, as we call the under part of 
our foot a sole, only a horse has two soles instead of one. This 
that you first see is the horny sole ; it sinks in a little, so that 

' I showed Auzoux's model of a horse's foot. 



74 THE BRAIN AND NERVOUS SYSTEM. 

the nail that projects ronnd the edge of it can protect it. To- 
wards the back part there is this raised part Hke a cushion ; 
it is called the 'frog.' The frog is a most wonderful and 
useful part, for when it rests constantly on anything hard it 
becomes so tough and hard that even a piece of glass will not 
hurt it. By this means the horse is able to pass over the most 
stony roads in its own country, where it is not shod. Some 
people think it would be better not to shoe them at all ir 
England. 

I will now take off the hard poHshed hoof, or nail, and thv. 
homy sole and frog, in which there are no nerves, and show 
you how delicately the under sole is made. You see it is 
covered with nerves, arteries, and veins. The whole of the 
front of the hoof has these little white lines, like the leaves of 
a book, which run from the top of the hoof to the bottom, 
called laminae. There are no less than three hundred of them ; 
they are all made of a soft substance, containing many nerves. 
This is that part in our toes and fingers which we call the 
quick, which lies under the nail, and hurts so dreadfully if 
anything sharp runs down the nail. 

Now you must look and see how beautifully these three 
hundred laminae are guarded by the horny covering, or shoe. 
Each of the laminae is placed in a little horny groove to protect 
it. Under them you can see the bone of the foot, which is 
called the coffin bone. There are a great many little holes in 
the coffin bone for the arteries and veins to pass through, so 
that they may not be hurt by any pressure. Here is the tender 
sole, where there are so many nerves. 

Everything is done by nature to guard the foot. I am 
sorry to say there are ignorant blacksmiths and grooms who 
do their best to spoil all that God has done. First they put 
on iron shoes of an immense weight, and then they fasten 
them on by too many nails, which are sent in too far, till they 
touch some of the tender parts. Sometimes they make the 
foot fit the shoe by cutting away the homy part till it has the 
same shape as the iron shoe. Some people consider it an im- 
provement to scrape the polished hoof with a knife ; then the 
wet gets in, and the nail becomes rotten and breaks away, so 
that there is very little horny substance to fasten the nails to. 



THE horse's hoof. 75 

There are knives made on purpose to shave off some of the 
frog, or soft cushion ; then the horse, having nothing to pro- 
tect the tender sole, becomes lame. Cracked heels are often 
caused by cutting awaj the little tuft of hair that is placed 
at the back of the foot to guard that part. 

Exercise is necessary for horses ; the feet are very much 
injured by standing still in a hot, damp stable. The feet then 
grow tender, and the frog and horny sole grow smaller, so that 
the nerves and blood-vessels get squeezed together, and grow 
small and weak. 

The donkey's foot is very like the horse's ; the only difference 
is, that the donkey's hoof is longer and the sole more hollow. 
It is by this means that it can walk in rough and steep places 
better than the horse, because its hoof digs into the earth, and 
gets a better hold of it. 

Things provided for the Lectii/re, 

Marshall's diagram of the nerves, No. 7. 
Drawings of the skeleton of a horse, dog, bird, fish. 
Drawings of the organs of a frog. 
Auzoux's model cf the horse's hoof. 

The words Vertebral Column and Vertebra were written up in lar^e 
letters en the blackboard,. 

Questions for the Ninth Lecture. 

• 1. Describe all yon can remember about the brain. 

2. Should we suffer pain if we had no nerves ? 

3. Name some of the parts of the body that have no nerves and those 

parts that have the most nerves. 

4. Do you remember why ajl animals who have a bony skull are called 

vertebrate animals ? 
6. Tell me all you can remember about the horse's hoof, and how it is 
injured by ignorant blacksmiths and grooms. 



76 DIGESTION. 

LECTURE X. 

DIGESTION. 

To-DAY we are going to hear about the way in which the food 
we eat is digested — that means, how it is changed by the 
different organs of digestion, and made into blood. 

I will first point out where some of the largest organs of 
digestion are placed in this part of the body called the abdo- 
men. The abdomen is separated from the chest by a large 
muscle called the diaphragm.' Here is the stomach, lying 
nearly in the middle, close under the ' diaphragm.' The liver 
is above and to the right of the stomach, and the intestines, 
or bowels, are beneath the stomach. This muscle called the 
diaphragm is a very important part, and I will try and explain 
how curiously it moves. 

When you take in a deep breath of air, your ribs swell out, 
and so do the lungs. The diaphragm, instead of rising up at 
the same time that the ribs do, sinks down, and so makes room 
for the lungs to grow as big as they can. Draw in a good 
breath, and you will see that this is the case. 

Our blood, as I have before said, contains at least forty 
different substances. The food is first changed in the mouth. 
The mouth is a strong box of bone which contains the 
tongue and thirty-two teeth, sixteen at the top and sixteen 
at the bottom. A learned man would at least give you one 
lesson entirely about teeth. I can only tell yon enough about 
them to make you understand that God has given us differ »nt 
kinds of teeth, so that we may be able to eat both animal and 
vegetable food. 

Animals which live on nothing but flesh — that is, by eating 
other animals — have very different teeth from those who eat 
nothing but grass. I have brought the skull of a lion. A lion, 
you know, eats nothing but animal food. You see he has four 
enormous teeth, two on each jaw, called canine teeth, for 
holding the prey, besides numerous molar teeth. Between 
these canine teeth the flesh is caught and pierced and torn, 

' Marslmll's diagram, No. 3, page 4. 



THE TEETH. 



whilst the molar teeth cat it to pieces as knives would, because 
their edges are very sharp like knives. The lion can only 

Fig. 29. 




Side view oj *,he trunk of the body, showing how the diaphragm d divides the chest or 
thorax /, fttmi the abdomen a, where the stomach, liver, bowels, and ihe other organs 
of digestioi: are placed. The ribs in the picture are spread out as far as they will go, 
because the lungs are full of air ; b is the breast-bone, or sternum. 

move his lower jaw up and down, like a chopping-machine, 
not from side to side. 

It is impossible for man or any quadruped to move 
the upper jaw, as the upper teeth are placed in those bones of 
the face which cannot move. I have brought the same human 
skull you saw at another lecture,^ as it has a very perfect set 

^ I showed a human skull, and how the lower jaw moves. 



7b DIGESTION. 

of teeth. A human being can, you see, move his lower jaw not 
only upwards and downwards, but backwards and forwards 
and from side to side. 

A cow is an animal that eats nothing but gratis, with certain 
plants growing in it. Have you ever noticed a cow eating 
or chewing its cud in a field ? If not, watch one, and you 
will see how much it moves its lower jaw about^ --upwards and 
downwards, backwards and forwards, and from side to side. 
The cow does not chop its food as the lion do^ ; it grinds it 
as the mill does corn. The teeth used for grinding food are 
called mill or molar teeth ; a very good name for them. 

I have brought you a single tooth of an elephant. I 
should like to have brought you the skull of an elephant, 
but I found it would require four strong men to carry it. 
When we go to the Museum, I will show you all the differ- 
ent animals and their skeletons that we have talked about 
together. Though the elephant is the largest and strongest 
quadruped that now lives on the earth, he is also one of the 
gentlest with those who treat him kindly. Mothers have 
left their children to his care for some hours. They were 
perfectly safe ; no one was allowed to touch them until the 
mothers' return. 

Animals who feed on vegetable food are always more 
gentle than those who feed on flesh-meat. If a lion has once 
killed and eaten a man, he never rests uutil he has found 
another. An Indian gentleman, who came from Bengal, told 
me last winter that he had seen a tiger who had eaten at least 
two hundred men. English gentlemen and native gentlemen 
in India enjoy hunting and shooting lions and tigers. Work- 
ing-men who are natives are not allowed to kill them. The 
consequence is that there are so many tigers that they roam 
about and kill and eat up great numbers of people. Travel- 
lers frequently find villages quite deserted. Directly the 
people hear that these animals are approaching they fly to 
other places for safety. 

Now we nmst examine the teeth in the human skull, to 
Bee what teeth we have. There are eight small cutting teeth, 
four in the upper jaw and four in the bottom jaw ; they come 
in the front. Between them and the three double teeth there 



THE SAJ.IVA GLANDS. 79 

are three other teeth on each side in both the upper and the 
lower jaw-bone ; they cnt up the butcher's meat we eat. The 
double teeth are molar teeth ; they grind the vegetable food. 
It is therefore intended we should eat both animal and 
vegetable food, as we have teeth that will chop up foods of 
every kind. 

Our food is first changed, as I told you, in the mouth. But 
before we put any food into it I should like you to fancy your- 
selves standing before a pastry-cook'sshop,feelingveryhungry. 
What would happen directly you saw all the good things ? 
Your mouths would begin to water. Where did that water 
come from ? You have taken nothing to drink for some time. 
This water came from some wonderful little organs called 
salivary glands. You see this little glass ; it is of the shape of 
an almond. • It has a little pipe at the end of it. This almond- 
shaped bulb is something like the simplest form of a ^land ; 
but the glands which make the saliva consist of numbers of 
little sacs opening into the ends of a branched tube called a 
duct. We have six of these in the mouth — one in each cheek, 
and one under the tongue on each side, and one below each 
side of the lower jaw. Three and a hal^ pints of saliva are 
said to pour out of them daily into the mouth. No organs 
seem to me more wonderful than the glands. There are a 
great many of them in different parts of the body. 

We will now take a mouthful of meat into our mouths, and 
see what happens to it. The teeth will first cut it up into 
small pieces ; the saliva will make it soft, and the tongue 
will roll it into a ball, and send it to the back of tho mouth. 
At the back of the mouth there is a little door of Heah. that 
hangs from the upper jaw. Directly the ball of food touches 
this little door it will be lifted up and cover an opening 
there is into the nose, to prevent any food from getting into 
this opening. The little door that covers the windpipe will 
close at the same time, and the ball will roll over the door 
into the gullet. Here are two glass tubes placed together 
as the windpipe and gullet are placed; the red pipe is in- 
tended to represent the windpipe, and the yellow pipe is the 

' I showed a glass bulb in the shape of an almond. 



80 DIGESTION. 

gullet.' The gullet is the tube that carries the food into the 
stomach. Remember it lies behind the windpipe, nearest to 
the backbone. 

The ball of food that Las just been made in the mouth' 
will not run or flj down the gullet as we think it does. The 
food will pass gradually downwards. It is first held by the 
muscular fibres at the upper part : then these muscular fibres 
press it on until, step by step, it reaches the door that opens 
into the stomach. It is not, then, because you are standing 
up that your food goes down into your stomach ; it would go 
down just as well if you stood on your head. I dare say you 
have seen a juggler perform the wonderful feat of drinking a 
glass of water when he was standing on his head. The water 
goes down step by step, just as the solid food does. Cows and 
horses and all four-footed animals eat and drink with their 
heads down. They have no difficulty, because their food 
passes along a gullet made like ours. 

Now I must tell you something about the stomach. No 
doubt you have all seen and heard a bagpipe that men play in 
the streets. It is an instrument which Scotchmen make with 
the stomach oi a pig. The stomach of a man is of exactly the 
same shape. ^ It has three layers of muscular fibres. In the 
outside one there are fibres which pass downwards over 
the stomach ; in the middle one they go round it ; in the 
inner one they pass down obliquely. The fibres which pass 
downwards shorten the bag ; those which go round it make 
it narrower, and the inner fibres draw the sides of the bag 
over the food. By this means the stomach keeps moving 
the food that is in it up and down, just as a churn moves 
the milk about to make it into butter. Inside this is another 
thin skin, which is very smooth and has a beautiful pink 
colour. This is all I shall tell you about the organs of diges- 
tion to-day. 

Before I finish my lecture I should like to tell you some- 
thing which I dare say a great many of you already know 
about water. Water is made of two gases, oxygen and 

' I showed two glass pipes (the windpipe was red, the gullet yellow) 
they were fastened together to show the position of the two pipes. 
* I showed Eamm and Stodmann's model of a human stomach. 



ELEMENTS OF WATER. 81 

bjdrogen. Yon have already heard from me a great deal 
about oxygen gas. Hydrogen is the lightest of all gases, and 
for that reason balloons .have been filled with it. A balloon, 
though it looks so large when it is filled with this gas, is 
lighter than the air about it, and therefore rises up. This 
balloon is full of hydrogen ; it will therefore float up to the 
top of the room. 

Yon must copy down what is written about water on the 
blackboard : — In nine pounds of water, eight pounds of the 
whole w^eight wonld consist of oxygen ; only one pound of 
that quantity would be hydrogen. Oxygen is sixteen times 
heavier than hydrogen. 

Things provided for the Lecture. 

Marshall's diagram of the viscera, No. 3. 

A picture of the gullet and intestines. 

Two pipes to represent the gullet and windpipe in glass. 

A little glass bladder and pipe to represent a simple gland. 

A balloon filled wnth hydrogen gas. 

A bottle of oxygen gas. 

Questions for the Tenth Lecture. 

1. How are the lungs and heart kept quite separate from the stomach, 

bowels, and other organs which lie in the abdomen ? 

2. Tell me something about our teeth, and why we can eat all kinds of 

food. 
8. What happens to our food when we put it in our moiiths, and how 

does it get down into the stomach? 
4. What is the name of the pipe that carries our food to our stomach? 
6. What are the names of the two gases that form water ? 



LECTURE XI. 

DIGESTION (continued). 



YoD must all listen very attentively to what I am going to 
tell yon. It is this, that nnless the food we eat will mix with 
water, it cannot be turned into blood. We have a great deal 
of water in our bodies. If a person weighs 154 pounds, 111 

G 



82 DIGESTION. 

pounds of that weight will be water, and that only leaves 49 
pounds of solid matter. 

In some countries it is the custom to burn dead bodies 
instead of burying them. This custom is called cremation. 
There are now a great many doctors and clever good people 
in England who much approve of this plan, as they consider 
the air that comes from a cemetery very unhealthy. It may 
cause fever, diarrhoea, or common cholera ; therefore dead 
bodies ought to be burned, and not put into the earth. A great 
part of our bodies turns into different gases, when we are 
burnt ; the part left, that would not burn, is called ashes. 
The ashes are made of mineral substances, such as phos- 
phorus, lime, and iron. A French gentleman was once burnt. 
Enough iron was found amongst his ashes to make into a 
rmg, which a friend wore. 

At my last lecture I described how the food, when it is pub 
into the mouth, is chopped up by the teeth and made soft by 
the saliva. The tongue then rolls it into a ball and sends it 
to the back of the throat. The ball passes over the wind- 
pipe into the gullet, down which pipe it gradually descends 
until it gets to the opening through which it passes into the 
stomach. I described the shape of the stomach, and the 
coats it has, but I did not tell you what happened to the food 
when it got into the stomach. To-day I intend to tell you 
how a wholesome dinner of potatoes and roast beef is turned 
into good blood. The beef must consist of fat as well as lean 
meat. I shall take no liquid ; that means, neither water nor 
beer. 

The beautiful smooth pink skin that lines the stomach is 
all covered with small spots, the openings of the gastric glands. 
Directly the food has passed down the gullet, and entered the 
little opening on the left side of the stomach, these glands 
pour out a jQ.uid called ' gastric juice.' This juice will change 
the food into a thick fluid called chyme, about the thickness of 
pea-soup. As the stomach is constantly contracting and 
moving about, the food is rolled about, as I before said, as if 
it were being churned. The gastric juice helps to dissolve it 
and changes it into this thick fluid, chyme. This chyme then 
passes down to the door at the other end on the right side, to 



SOLID FOODS. 



83 



try to getoufc. If the^nid is thin enough, and the food has 
been sufficiently churned or reduced into small pieces by the 
constant movement of the stomach, this door will open and 
let it pass through, but if it is not properly diirested the door 
will not open. It is sent back to be moved about until it is 
made into a proper state. 

It is said that fourteen pints of gastric juice are poured 

Fig. 30. 




Diagram showin,!? the stomat;h 5 and the howcls, or intestines : o, the door into the 
stomach from the giillt-t ; p, pyioru*, or door tlirouf^ti wnich the food goes into the 
second stomacli, call d the daodenum, which is joined to the small int3stin;3, that ar3 
twisted about and marked >; i is where the small intestine is lastenod to the larg,? 
intestine, marked c o, c o, c o. This larpe intestine or bowel, goes up then across, 
over the second stomach, and then it comes down and ends in the part called the 
rectum, marked r. \ 

daily into the stomach. This juice contains a very powerful 
acid : it can dissolve metals, snch as iron and silver, ^"t it 



84 DIGESTION. 

cannot change fat. Fat is only melted in the stomach; but 
jou know it must be changed by some organ, so that it will 
mix with water, or it cannot be made into blood. Fat and 
water won't mix together. 

Directly the food passes this little door on the right side 
of the stomach it enters the first part of the small intestines, 
named the duodennm, which has been sometimes called the 
second stomach. There is, yon see, a picture of this part of 
the intestine in this diagram, marked d. You see that a small 
tube comes from the liver and goes into the duodenum.' 
Tliis tube is called the bile-duct, and brings the bile from the 
liver. There is a great deal of soda in the bile. 

Soda and fat, or oil, will mix together directly, and they 
make a soap. Soap, you know, will mix with water. The 
soda which is in the soap we use to wash ourselves with mixes 
with the oil on our skins, and then the water takes the dirt off. 
Soap is usually made by putting soda and fat together. Here 
is some oil in this tumbler. I will put some soda into it, and 
then I will add some water. Yon will see after a little time 
that they have both mixed together. I will pour some oil 
into this tumbler of water, which has no soda, and you will 
find that the oil and water would never mix. Tlie oiP will 
keep quite separate, floating on the top like this, because it is 
lighter than Avater. I must tell you what happens to the fat 
which is in the chyme when it gets into the second stomach. 
The compound of soda that is in the bile joins with the fat and 
turns it into the soapy substance which you know mixes so 
well with water. The bile and the sweet-bread juice change 
the chyme into a milky substance called chyle. There are 
mnscles in the duodennm and all along the bowels, which push 
the chyle slowly on, and squeeze a great part of it into little 
pipes, called lacteals, which cover the inside coat, or skin, of 
the bowels. These little pipes carry off the milky fluid to a 
great many little glands that are placed at the back of the 
bowels. These glands are called the ' mesenteric glands.' 

Now T must tell you what a curions thing happens to the 
chyle when it enters these wonderful little organs called the 
' Marshall's diagram, page 83. 
' I showed a tumbler of -water with the oil on the top. 



THE CHYLE. 85 

mesenteric glands. About half of the chyle is gradually- 
changed into little round bodies, called corpuscles, and they 
float along in the rest of the white milky fluid through pipes 
which take it to a kind of bag that is placed in front of the 
spine, or backbone. To this bag a pipe is fastened which goes 
up by the backbone. The little white bodies go along swim- 
ming up this pipe in the white milky fluid until they come to 
the neck, where two veins meet.^ In one of the veins there is 
a little door, and the fluid passes through this door into the 
vein. 

Now we have turned the beef and potatoes into blood, but 
remember it is dirty blood, because it is in a vein, not an 
artery. Before it can be made into good blood, and alive, it 
must bo carried by the veins to the right side of the heart, 
through which all the dirty blood has to pass, flow through 
into the top room, and then run through the valve into the 
bottom room, where it will be squeezed or pumped through the 
pulmonary arteries into the lungs. When it gets to the lungs, 
if there is plenty of good air in the lungs, as there ought to 
be, some of the little corpuscles will be charged with oxygen, 
and away they will fly in the blood through the pulmonary veins 
to the left side of the heart, through which all the good blood 
has to pass, flow through into the top chamber, and pass 
through into the bottom room, where the blood will be pumped 
up into the big artery, the aorta, which will carry it to every 
part of the body in about half a minute. In the lungs, then, 
the last and most important part of digestion, or rather of the 
conversion of food into blood, takes place ; for unless the lungs 
contain plenty of pure air, the chyle which comes from the 
food cannot be changed into good blood that will nourish the 
body. This is seen in a case of consumption when disease has 
injured the lungs. The patient may have a good appetite and 
eat the most nourishing food and still daily grow thinner and 
weaker. If people understood this important fact they would 
take care and have plenty of fresh air when they are taking 
their meals, instead of eating in hot crowded rooms filled with 
an atmosphere that has been breathed over and over again. 

I must tell you a little more about these corpuscles. They 

' I showed the veins in Marshall's diagram, No. 4, p. 40. 



86 



DIGESTION. 



are to be found in the blood of all animals, but their shape is 
different in many animals. Our red corpuscles are round like 
a sixpence, but they are pressed down in the middle like an 
air-cushion. You. can see them on this diagram.^ The white 
corpuscles are much less numerous. I must take care to let 
you know how very small these little bodies are. You must 
remember they have to pass through those little hair-like 
tubes called capillaries, which are so line that they cannot bo 
seen without very powerful magnifying glasses. In a drop of 
blood there would be, it is said, about three million corpuscles 
— the same number as there are people in London, which is 
the largest city in the world. The corpuscles of a hen, fish, 
or reptile are oval, like that.^ 

^ Fig. 31. 



^ . cf^ 1 




a, three red Wood -corpuscles from a frop : b, tvro red Mood-corrnscles from the monkfish, 
one pcen edf,ewaj's ; c, two red blood -corpu<cles vt the common fowl ; d, three rainnte 
red blood-corpuscle? of the froat ; e, human capillary A-epsel from the brain, showing its 
transpa-ent skin, ss: and also seven red and two white blood-corpuscles inside the 
capillary tube ; the white corpuscles are marked ic. 

When a murder has been committed, if a doctor examines 
a stain of blood on any clothes belonging to the murdered 
person, he may sometimes be able to tell by the size or shapo 
of the corpuscles which he finds in the blood, whether it is 
blood that has come from a human being or a dumb animal. 
An old woman came to a hospital one day, and asked to bo 
taken in, as her nose, she said, had been bleeding most 
violently. The doctor examined the handkerchief, and found 
it was covered with hen's blood. It proved that she was verj 
* Marshall's diagram, No. 4. ^ Marshall's diagram, No. 4. 



DIGESTION AND CARBONACEOUS FOODS. 8' 

poor, wanted to gain admittance to the hospital, and so had. 
killed a hen and dipped her handkerchief in its blood. 

Tilings provided for the Lecture. 

A bottle of sweet oil. 

One bottle with water and oil. 

Some soda. 

Marshall's diagram which showed the corpuscles and the organs of digps- 

tion, No. 4. 
A picture of the stomach, bowels, and gullet (Marshall's diagram, No. 6). 
On the blackboard I wrote Mesenteric Glands, Corpuscles^ Chyme, Chyle. 

Questions for the Eleventh Lecture. 

1. If a person weighed 154 pounds, do you remember how much of that 

weight would be water ? 

2. Can any kind of food be digested or turned into blood unless it will 

mix with water? 

3. Describe all you can remember about the way in which a dinner of 

solid food — beef and potatoes — is digested and turned into good 
blood. 



LECTURE XII. 

DIGESTION AND CARBONACEOUS FOODS 

To-DAY I will first explain what is meant hj animal and 
vegetable food. You will often meet people who will say, 
* We are vegetarians ; we never eat meat.' If you ask them 
if they never eat eggs, butter, milk, cream, cheese, they will 
say, ' Oh, certainly we do.' They forget that all these foods 
are most nourishing animal foods. The eggs wo chiefly eat in 
England are those laid by hens and ducks ; milk, butter, 
cheese, and cream we get from that most useful animal the 
cow. These are therefore all animal foods. Animal food 
means any food that has come from an animal. 

What is vegetable food ? It is anything that grows in 
the ground — grass, corn (which is ground into flour and made 
into bread), oatmeal, rice, potatoes, sugar, &c. Sugar is a 
vegetable food. In France they make all their sugar from 
beetroot ; the sugar I hold in my hand is some I brought from 
France last autumn, which was made from beetroot.' 
' I showed a beetroot. 



»b DIGESTION AND CARBONACEOUS FOODS. 

There are, however, some animals which may properly call 
themselves vegetarians, such as the horse, cow, sheep, and 
elephant, because they never do touch animal food, and only 
eat vegetable food, such as grass, com, or hay. When they are 
very young, it is true, they take animal food, because they 
take their mothers' milk. All animals which are fed by their 
mothers' milk when they are young are called mammals. 

Young fish, directly they are born, eat what they can find 
in the water ; many young birds eat insects. A chicken, the 
moment after it has stepped out of its shell, picks up anything 
it sees on the ground that takes its fancy, and eats it. 

Don't you think it is very wonderful that an elephant, 
which is one of the strongest and largest animals that we 
know of, should be able to gain all its strength from vegetable 
food — grass and green twigs or boughs of trees — and that a 
child can also grow strong and have all its organs well nour- 
ished by only drinking milk ? Milk is the only food an infant 
ought to have for the first nine months of its life. 

Our bones are surrounded by two things, flesh and fat. 
We must therefore eat foods called ' flesh-formers,' that will 
make flesh and nourish our organs ; and foods that will turn 
into fat, called ' body-warmers.' Here is a list of our ' body- 
warmers.' They are called ' body- warmers ' because they con- 
tain carbon, which joins with oxygen and makes the heat that 
keeps our bodies warm. 







Body-warmers. 


Animal. 




Vegetable. 


Butter. 






Sugar. 


Dripping. 






Treacle. 


Suet. 






Starch, which is in bread and 


Lard. 






all vegetables. 


Cod-liver 


Oil. 




Olive Oil. 



I want to show you in my next two lectures that the same 
substances that are found in animal foods can be found in 
vegetable foods. To-day I will try and prove that vegetables 
contain carbon. 

Here is a piece of bread. In bread and all vegetables there 
is a great deal of starch. You all know what starch is, 
because you must have seen your mothers use it very often to 



VEGETABLE BODV-WARMERS. 



"89 



make your fathers' shirts and collars stiff. If you could look 
at some starch through a magnifying glass you would see that 
it was made np of little grains. I have a picture here of one 
of the starch grains that are in bread. ^ In this tumbler there is 
some starch which our cook got from this wheat. ^ I will now 
pour some sulphuric acid on the starch, and you will soon see 

Fig. 32. 




a, Starch grain uncooked. 



h, Cooked and burst. 



that the starch will become black like the carbon that is in 
this bottle. 

I told you that no food we eat could be made into blood 
unless it would mix with water. Now, starch won't mix with 
water unless it nearly boils, and the water in our bodies is 
only warm—about 90° when people are well — while water does 
not boil till it reaches a temperature of 212°. Here is some 
starch.3 It won't mix, you see ; it falls to the bottom directly 
it is still. Sugar will mix perfectly or dissolve in water, as I 
will prove to you."* I will put this lump of sugar into this 
water. In a minute or two you would not be able to tell, 
unless you tasted the water, that there was any sugar in it. 
Fortunately the saliva, or spittle, in our mouths can also 



• I sho-vred a single cell. 

* I showed some starch in water. 



* I showed the wheat in a tumbler. 

* I put some lump^ of sug.ar in water. 



.^0 DIGESTION AND CAKiiONACEOUS FOODS. 

change starch into sugar, which, I have jnst shown you, will 
mix with w'atcr. 

Have you not often found a very sweet taste in your 
mouth while you were chewing some bread ? You will now 
know the reason, because the saliva, or spittle, that is in 
your mouth changes the starch which is in the bread into 
sugar. Try a mouthful of bread this evening — don't eat any 
butter with it — and you will find that what I have told you 
is true. 

The gastric juice that is in the stomach, and which I shall 
presently tell you more about, does not digest starch or oily 
substances. It digests the animal food we eat. When bread 
or any vegetable gets into the stomach, it will be churned, 
and gently moved about, until it is broken into little pieces, 
and the gastric juice will turn it into that substance called 
chyme. Only when the food is broken into very small pieces 
will it be allowed to pass through the little door on the right 
side, which leads into the intestine. 

There is, as I said in my last lecture, an organ called the 
sweetbread, or pancreas. It lies here, behind the stomach. 
A great quantity of juice is made daily in this organ. This 
juice is carried, as already stated, by a tube which opens with 
the bile-duct into the duodenum. It is something like the 
spittle, or saliva, that is in the mouth, because it turns starch 
into sugar and helps to digest the vegetable food when it gets 
into the bowels. A great deal of the same kind of juice runs 
out of the glands of the intestines, so that the vegetable food 
continues to be digested the whole way as it passes through 
the bowels. The bowels of a man are about six times as long 
as his body. It seems scarcely possible that so long a pipe 
could take up so small a space as it does. Look at this 
picture.' Remember, the bowels are only one long pipe. 
All our organs are packed in the same beautiful way, so that 
not the smallest space is wasted. 

Animals that eat only flesh, like the Hon, have a very 

small stomach and very short intestines, or bow^els : the lion's 

bow^els are only three times the length of its body. A sheep 

has bowels twenty-eight times as long as its body ; a horse, 

' Marshall's diagram. See p. 83. 



A1<TMAL AND VEGETABLE FOODS. 91 

twenty times as long as its body. These animals only eat 
vegetables. 

The reason of this is that a greater quantity of vegetable 
food is required to nourish the body. For instance, here is 
a pound of beef and a pound of bread. A hungry man could 
eat two pounds of bread. Two pounds of bread would make 
a very large quantity when digested. A pound of beef would 
go into a very small space. 

Infants have only an imperfectly-formed saliva until they 
begin to cut some teeth. Very little juice comes out of the 
sweetbread or bowels of an infant. Let us see what will 
happen if a nurse gives an infant bread, or any vegetable 
food. As there are no teeth in the mouth to chop it up, and 
no very active saliva to turn the starch into sugar, the 
stomach must churn the bread about for an immense time 
in order to break it into small pieces, so that the little door 
on the right side of the stomach will open to let it pass 
through. When it reaches the bowels there will not be juice 
to digest it. All these organs will have worked in vain, be- 
cause the bread, or the starch which is in all vegetables, will 
not have been changed or digested by them. The poor little 
creature will have snfFered agony for nothing, as no blood 
will have been made to nourish its little frame. 

Not long since I saw a child about a year old lying in a 
cot. Its face looked like that of a little withered old man, 
and its painful expression haunted me for a long time. I 
said to the grandfather, ' That poor little thing never gets any 
milk.' ' No ; it doesn't like milk ; it scarcely cats anything. 
This morning it had a good breakfast, because it fancied a bit 
of bacon, and took a good sup of raspberry tea.' It is true 
that if infants do not have milk they do not like it as they 
grow older, which is a very sad thing. 

Mothers often say that they give their babies just what 
they take themselves. ' May-be some bread-and-butter or a 
potato.' When an infant is only two liours old many nurses 
even in this day will put a mouthful of butter and sugar 
into its mouth. Some years ago at St. George's Workhouse, 
liOndon, it was said that every infant died before it had been 
in the house a year. All the children were taken care of by 



92 DIGESTION AND CARPONACEOUS FOODS. 

an old pauper woman. They were fed on bread — workhonsft 
bread — soaked in water just coloured with milk The 
children were placed in a row ; then the old woman used to 
go along the row, and put into each child's mouth a spoonful 
of this soaked bread. In a very short time they all died. 
Indeed, they went into the ' house ' to die. 

Dr. Bednar, who lives in Vienna, was the surgeon to a 
foundling hospital some years ago, where poor little charity 
children are taken in. Dr. Bednar examined the dead bodies 
of fifteen of these poor little infants. He found that they had 
all been 'pined,* or starved, to death. There was scarcely 
any fat or flesh to cover their bones. The oxygen had burnt 
it all up. All he found was a great deal of starch lying 
along the bowels, which of course had not been digested. 
They too had been fed on bread-and-water. 

This is the way babies are tortnred and starved to death 
when mothers put their children out to nurse. The women, 
or baby-farmers, who earn a small sum of money for taking 
care of these children, cannot afford to buy milk, which is 
very dear, so they give them a great deal of bread-and-water. 
How dreadful it is to think that while these poor little 
creatures are suffering and dying by inches, or living to grow 
np miserable cripples who must work hard for their bread, 
their mothers are feeding rich women's children, and making 
them fat and happy. I do not consider that a poor ignorant 
mother who forsakes her child for money is half so cruel 
as the rich educated mother who, for the sake of ease and 
pleasure, refuses to feed and cherish her little one. Until 
mothers will be really mothers to their own infants, and 
give np the fashionable and unnatural practice of engaging 
wet nurses, a country, though it may be called civilised, will 
never produce a moral and healthy people. It is stated 
that the more civilised a conntry becomes, the more infanta 
die every year. In England about half the children born die 
before they reach five years. Milk, and only milk, is the food 
for children for the first six or nine months. If there is no 
mother's milk, an infant, with care, may be brought up very 
well on cow's milk, not shimmed milk. After eight or nine 
months the milk may be thickened with a little baked floui 



INFANT DIGESTION. 93 

(not corn-flour). Bake the flour in a cloth until it is hard, 
not burnt, and then scrape off as much as is required to 
thicken the milk. A great deal of milk should be given 
to every child until it is seven years old, mixed with flour, 
rice, tapioca, semolina, &c. Some milk should be given at 
every meal. Swiss milk suits some infants, but it cannot be 
v> good as milk that has come fresh from a cow or an ass. 

Things provided for the Lecture. 

A picture of a starch cell. 

Some starch got from wheat and the wheat from which it 

was taken. 
Sugar and water. 

Marshall's diagram of the viscera. No. 3. 
A piece of beef and a piece of bread. 
Experiment to turn the starch into carbon. 

Questions for the Twelfth Lecture. 

1. Write down the names of some of the animals which have all the 

organs a human being has, and which eat nothing but vegetables. 

2. There is a great deal of starch in bread and all vegetables. Into 

what does the spittle that is in the mouth change the starch? 

3. Are vegetables changed, or digested, in the stomach ? 

4. Why are the bowels of a sheep twenty-eight times longer than its 

body, and a lion's only three times longer than its body? 
6. Why is it impossible for a baby to change bread or any vegetable 
food into good chyle and blood until it has cut some teeth ? 



LECTURE XIII. 
CARBONACEOUS AND NITROGENOUS FOODS. 

\ tfOULD not tell you in my last lecture all I wished to say 
a out carbonaceous foods, which I called ' body- warmers.' 
"V ou had better write down the long new name, as you will 
find it is the name generally used in books. The reason they 
are called carbonaceous foods is because they all contain a 
great deal of carbon. Sugar and treacle contain a great deal 
of carbon. This I will prove to you by two little experiments. 
Here are two tumblers ; one contains treacle, the other sugar. 
I will pour some sulphuric acid into both the tumblers. You 



1)4 CARBONACEOUS AND NITROGENOUS FOODS. 

must r.otico that the sugar and treacle are quite cold before 
1 put in the acid. A little boy and girl had better come to 
me and feel how cold the tumblers are. I will j)onr some of 
this acid into both the tumblers. You see both the treacle 
and the sugar have become as black as a piece of charcoal or 
this carbon 1 have in this bottle, and a very great amount cf 
heat is made. 

Sugar and treacle contain three things — oxygen, hydro- 
gen, and carbon. All this great heat which you see is made 
because the sulphuric acid has joined chemically with the 
oxygen and hydrogen that are in the sugar and treacle. 
Sulphuric acid does not like carbon, so the carbon is left all 
alone in the tumbler. 

Heat, you must remember, is always made when two 
things join chemically together. Sugar and water do not 
join chemically. The sugar is only melted in the water ; it 
does not join with either the oxygen or hydrogen that the 
water is made of. 

The reason why I am so anxious to make you understand 
that sugar and treacle are ' body- warmers ' is because these 
two kinds of food are very good for children. They ought 
to have plenty of them at their meais, if they like them. 
Little children have to grow tall as well as strong ; this they 
cannot do unless they have plenty of fat to cover their bones. 
It often happens that children do not like the fat that comes 
from an animal, such as mutton and beef fat ; but they nearly 
always like sugar and treacle. These two things turn into 
fat when they are digested in the body. They can eat them 
instead of animal fat. I do not believe that children would 
all have so great a longing for sweet things unless sweet 
things were good for them. 

It has been generally thought that sugar is not wholesome, 
and that it injures the teeth. To prove that this is a mistake 
we have only to go to the West Indies, where the sugar-cane 
grows, and see how healthy and fat the little black children 
are. It is not possible to see children who have whiter or 
stronger teeth than they have. Fortunately sugar is now very 
cheap in England, as the tax has just been taken off It is, 



FLESH-FORMERS. 95 

uo donbt, a very bad thing to let children eat a great many 
bought sweets, or goodies, because they are very often not 
made of good sugar, and are colou;^ed by poisonous matter. 
These goodies are generally eaten between meals, and spoil 
the appetite Eating between meals is a very bad habit for 
persons of all ages. I have only one thing more to tell you 
about carbonaceous food. It is that all body- warmers, both 
animal and vegetable — namely, starch, fat, sugar, treacle — 
are made of only three things : carbon, oxygen, and 
hydrogen. 

You are now going to hear about the foods which make 
our flesh and forty organs. A list of them is written down on 
that sheet. I will read them over to you.^ 

Flesh-formers. 

Animal. Vegetable. 

Meat. Game. Flour. Rice. 

Fish. Eggs. I Oatmeal. Peas. 

Pouhry. Cheese. | Barley, Rye. Lent Is. 

All these foods contain four things - oxygen, hydrogen, 
carbon, and nitrogen. 

Nitrogen is a gas I have never told you about before, 
because all the foods called ' body- warmers,' that make fat, 
have none of this gas. There is a great deal of it, however, 
in the air. The air is chiefly made up of nitrogen mixed with 
oxygen, of which you have already heard so much. All foods 
that make flesh must have nitrogen, and are therefore called 
' nitrogenous foods. '^ All animal and vegetable flesh-formers 
contain a substance called albumen. This is a most important 
substance, as it is with the help of albumen that all our nerves, 
as well as our flesh or muscles, are made. 

I will first show you some animal albumen : the white of 
an e^g is albumen ; an egg is animal food. I have broken an 
egg and put it unboiled into this glass bottle, so that you may 
all be able to see, when I hold it up, that it contains a white 

' I showod a table of flesh-ibrniers. 
' I wrote this on the blackboard. 



96 CARBONACEOUS AND NITROGENOUS FOODS. 

and a yellow part. The white part is a sticky, glney substance. 
I will stick these two pieces of paper together with this white 
of egg. Here is another bottle, in which there is some 
vegetable albumen. It has come from the same flour you saw 
at the last lecture, out of which our cook got the starch. It 
is also very sticky. I will stick these two pieces of paper 
together with it. The albumen that is got out of vegetables 
is called by another name, though it is the same substance — 
viz., gluten — from its sticky nature. 

When a person cuts his flesh, the variety of albumen, called 
fibrin, that is in the blood comes out of the wound, makes a 
clot of blood, and fastens its sides together. If there was no 
fibrin in the blood, the cut or wound would never stop bleed- 
ing. I will tell you more about albumen and fibrin in my 
next lecture. 

So far I have only described the way in which solid foods 
are digested, because liquid foods — such as wine, and spirits, 
and water — are not digested in the stomach or bowels ; they 
all only pass through the stomach to the liver. The liver is 
the largest organ of the body. It weighs from fifty to sixty 
ounces. When you drink any liquid, it goes down the gullet 
and into the stomach. It then runs through the coats of the 
stomach into little pipes, which carry it to a big vein which 
opens into the liver. All the blood that goes to the liver is 
dirty blood, and it is out of this dirty blood that the liver 
thakes a great many things, the most important of which are 
bile and sugar. Sugar is one of the forty things that the 
blood, to be healthy, must contain, and the liver makes the 
greater part of the sugar the blood requires. 

In the liver the liquids get taken into the blood, and the 
blood is poured into the great vein, called the lower vena cava, 
which carries all the dirty blood to the heart. Thus the 
liquids which we drink reach the heart very quickly. This is 
the reason why a cup of wine immediately revives a person 
whose heart is weak. Solid food, such as meat and vegetables, 
generally take about three hours to digest. 

I dare say you often hear your parents or friends say that 
they feel bilious. Biliousness is often caused by taking too 
much fat or carbonaceous food. Fat is not, as you know, 



!> 



THE LIVER. 97 

digested in the stomach ; it is digested in the intestine 
called the duodennm. If there is not bile enough there 
to change the fat into a soapy substance, the fat remains in 
tlio liver. 

There is a most expensive dish sold in Grermany called 
pate de foie gras, the English of vsrhich ij ' patty of fat liver.' 
I will tell you how it is made. A live goose is fastened 
down to a board, and put very near a fire or stove. It is fed 
on oily food, and it is allowed no fresh air or exercise. After 
a time its liver grows big and fat and diseased. Then the 
poor goose is killed, and the liver is made into a pie, or potted. 
A small pot is sold for three or four shillings, and is con- 
sidered a great treat. 1 am very glad to say that this dish, 
which is so cruelly procured, is most indigestible stuff. 

Doctors say that plenty of fresh air and exercise is the 
best way to prevent biliousness. Good water helps the liver 
to make bile. Footmen — gentlemen's servants who live in 
grand houses, sit a great deal in warm rooms, eat rich, fafc 
food, drink beer instead of water, and do very little work 
ftuch as strong men ought to do — suffer very much from liver 
complaints. 

There is a dreadful complaint called a nutmeg liver. The 
liver all shrinks up and becomes like a nntmeg. This is the 
kind of liver a man has who drinks spirits ; this is called a 
drunkard's liver.^ I will tell yon in the next lecture the bad 
effect that spirits have upon the liver. 

Tilings provided for the Lecture. 
Sugar. 
Treacle. 

A bottle of carbon. 
Some sulphuric acid. 
A raw egg in a large clear glass bottle. 
Some pieces of paper to stick together. 

Some gluten in a bottle. ^ 

Two experiments, turning sugar and treacle into carbon. 

Questions for the Thirteenth Lecture. 
Why are all kinds of oil, fat, sugar, treacle, and starch called 'car- 
bonaceous foods,' or * body-warmers ? ' 



' I showed a picture of a nutmeg liver. 
F 



98 CARBONACEOUS AND NITROGENOUS FOODS. 

2. Why is it good to give children sugar or treacle at their meals if 

they like these foods ? 

3. What is the name of the gas that must be in all foods called ' flesh- 

lormors,' which make our forty organs and strengthen our muscles 
and nerves ? 

4. When we drink anything, through what organ must that drink pass? 

5. Why do drunkards and footmen suffer very much from liver com- 

plaints ? 



LECTURE Xiy. 



NITROGENOUS AND LIQUID FOODS, AND THE HARM 
SPIRITS DO TO OUR ORGANS. 

My lecture to-day will again be about liquid foods. I had better 
mention that I am not a pledged teetotaller. I do not take 
wine or any stimulants, because I think it is not riglit to do 
so, as I am strong and well. I shall now try to explain some 
of the harm that spirits do to our organs, and to that substance 
wliich feeds our nerves called * albumen.' Great heat also 
injures albumen. For instance, here is an egg that has been 
cooked in boiling water. You see tbe white part, which is 
albumen, has become very hard. When it is in this state it 
will take more than three hours before it can be digested. 
This other egg has not been cooked in boiling water ; the 
albumen, you see, is soft and creamy, very different from that 
hard albumen. It will digest in two hours, and will strengthen 
the nerves much better than the albumen would do which is 
in that hard-boiled egg. 

There is something written down on the blackboard about 
albumen, which you must copy. It is as follows : — 'Albumen 
becomes hard and indigestible when it is cooked in water that 
is at 212°, which is boiling-point.' At the end of the lecture 
I will send this thermometer round, for you to examine it and 
iee that 212° is the boiling-point. 

I am now going to tell you about the injury spirits do to 
our diff"crent organs. Drunkards suff**r very much from 
stomach as well as from liver complaints, because all the 
liquids that we take have to pass through the stomach before 
they get to the liver. 



BAD EFFECTS OF SPIRITS. 99 

Yon will perhaps wonder how ifc is that doctors have been 
able to find oat how food is digested in the stomach, and 
how they know the number of hours different foods take to 
digest. They gained a great deal of this information by an 
accident that happened in America to a Canadian, called 
Alexis St. Martin, about forty years ago. He was shot by a 
buck shot ; the shot went through his stomach, and left a 
hole so large that Dr. Beaumont, the celebrated physician 
who attended him, could see all that went on in his stomach 
for several years. The accident happened on June 6, 1832. 
Alexis St. Martin would not allow the opening to be closed, 
as it did not affect his health. He enjoyed excellent health, 
and his digestion went on as regularly as if no ojjening had 
ever been made. He remained as a domestic servant with 
Dr. Beaumont for some years. Directly he took brandy, or 
any kind of spirit entered the stomach, the beautiful pink 
membrane lining the stomach, which I have described 
to you, became very red. When spirits had been taken 
for a few days sore boils appeared. The gastric juice seemed 
dried up, so that the meat could not be digested. The 
albumen, or gluten, became hardened, just as if it had 
been cooked in boiling water. Directly St. Martin gave 
up spirits the boils went away, the proper quantity of gastric 
juice came out of the stomach, and his digestion was all 
right again. 

I will now tell you all I know about the harm spirits do to 
different parts of the body. I told you it injured the liver and 
made its substance very hard ; and spirits also cause a fatty 
change in the muscles, so that the healthy substance of 
the liver and the fibres of the muscles gradually become 
changed into a kind of fatty substance, and are thus rendered 
useless. When spirits enter those wonderful little hair-like 
tubes called capillaries, it is said that after a time their 
delicate coats are thickened. Of course this prevents the good 
blood from passing freely through them into the surrounding 
parts to feed the flesh and different organs ; and the old 
materials from entering the capillaries, to be carried by the 
veins to the right side of the heart, that holds the dirty blood. 
For a short time, it is true, the blood is made hotter by 

H 2 



100 NITROGENOUS AND LIQUID FOODS. 

spirits. This heat makes the heart woik more quickly and 
send blood to every part of the body more rapidly. But 
this heat soon dies away, and the blood becomes colder than 
it was before the spirits were taken. "We loat n this fact from 
Arctic travellers — men who have spent many months in 
countries where there is nothinp^ but ice and snow. They 
dare not take spirits there, because it makes them colder after 
a time. They find they can only keep up the heat in their 
bodies by eating foods that contain a great deal of carbon, 
.such as oil or fat, which are very properly called body- 
warmers. There is a complaint called fatty degeneration of 
the heart. In this disease the muscles of the heart turn into 
fat, and therefore cannot do their work. 

The albumen and fibrin are also hardened by spirits. I 
dare say you have seen men who drive brewers' carts, loaded 
with barrels of beer, which they leave at people's houses. 
These m.en are called draymen. They are generally very fine, 
fat-looking men. In London, as a rule, they drink an im- 
mense quantity of beer, which contains spirit. Thongh 
they look so healthy they are really not so, because if they 
cut their flesh very slightly the wound will not heal, and they 
often die in a few hours after the accident. A woman who 
came to hear my lectures told me that a friend of hers had 
married a drayman. He cam.e home one evening with a small 
cut on his arm. The place began to swell, and he was dead 
by the morning. 

You see I have some blood in this bottle that came 
from an ox ; it is the same as human blood. The blood 
has separated into two substances ; the thick part is called a 
clot, and the thin white part is called serum. The clot, 
which is the thick part, contains albumen, fibrin, and red 
corpuscles, those little bodies that carry the oxygen gas. 
After a bad fever — typhus, for instance — the blood becomes 
poor ; it will not form into a clot. When the blood is in this 
state, should the nose or any part bleed, the bleeding cannot 
be stopped. 

This hard substance in this bottle is a clot of blood that 
has been preserved in spirits. It has become almost as tough 



k 



MILK AND WATER. 101 

and hard as a piece of leather. The doctor at the School of 
Medicine kindly lent it me. 

Persons who drink hard often suffer from delirium 
tremens, which is the most awfal complaint that can befall a 
human being. The nerves of those who have this disease 
are so weakened that they tremble like a leaf at the slightest 
sound. The mind becomes full of dreadful thoughts. They 
see, or fancy they see, horrid sights. Sleep brings no rest 
or comfort, only fearful dreams, from which they awake 
in such an agony of foar, that though they are afraid to live, 
they are still more afraid to die. Hunger they never know, 
only a constant thirst for the poisonous drink that has 
reduced them to a state much lower than that of the beasts 
in the field. 

If spirits have such a fearful effect on the nerves of a 
strong man, what must their effect be on the delicate nerves 
of an infant ? I am grieved to say that it is a common 
practice of mothers to give their babies gin. This spirit 
causes a constant thirst. A mother could not, therefore, 
choose a more cruel drink, because an infant cannot say it 
is thirsty. It is believed that gin stops the growth of all the 
organs. I dare say you have seen at the Leeds fairs, or f(?asts, 
Hittle boys and girls dancing in front of shows, or tumbling 
Kud doing, all kinds of wonderful feats in a ring. Their 
iiasters, it is said, give them gin to keep them small and 
young-looking. They also keep them up late at night, which 
is another sure w^ay of making children small, delicate, and 
nnhealthy. 

I have told you a great deal about the drinks which man 
l^as invented for himself, such as wine and spirits. I will 
I'.ow tell you something about the two drinks that God has 
provided for man : they are milk and water. Water is the 
n\ost important of all foods. A man might be kept alive 
for weeks if he took plenty of water and no food, but he 
\^'ould die in a few days if all water were withheld from 
him. 

A cup of cold water is the most cooling and refreshing 
drink you can give a person who is suffering from the thirst 



102 • NITROGENOUS AND LIQUID FOODS. 

of fever ; the blood then becomes too thick, because the 
great heat has dried up the water the blood ought to contain. 
The water we drink soon grows as hot as the blood, and turns 
into vapour, which opens the pores of the skin and carries 
off the heat in perspiration. Spirits dry the skin and shut up 
the pores. Dr. Edward Smith says that a man while he is 
drunk does not perspire. No wonder he becomes so mad and 
delirious. I hope you will explain how water cools the blood 
to anyone who thinks it is a bad thing to give water in case 
of fever. 

I have been often told that parents do not think it safe 
to give their children as much water as they want when they 
have a fever or are thirsty. It is always a safe drink ; even 
a baby would not be hurt by it. The blood will only con- 
tain a certain amount of water, however much you drink. It 
is dangerous to drink cold water after violent exercise ; but 
not at all dangerous to drink it during the exercise before the 
body has begun to cool. If you have been running very hard 
on a hot summer's day, and feel very thirsty, then you had 
better take a little water from time to time until your thirst 
is gone. When people suffer from a continued thirst, tepid 
water lessens it better than cold water. A piece of ice in 
the mouth is a good thing. Snow, unless it is melted first, 
increases the thirst : this is a very strange fact. 

Now I must say a few words for poor dumb animals, who, 
like little babies, cannot speak for themselves. I am afraid 
they suffer dreadfully from our cruelty and ignorance. It is 
considered by many people very bad to let a horse drink when 
it is thirsty, as they say that it should only be allowed to take 
water at certain times. All sensible masters and grooms 
place water in the stables, and let the horses drink when 
they feel inclined. A horse, donkey, dog and cat require 
a little water often, as they have smaller stomachs for theii 
size than we have. A donkey is very particular that the 
water he drinks should be clean and pure, because in the 
country he comes from he is accustomed to drink from clear 
running streams. Drinking-fountains, I am glad to say, are 
generally put up in all large towns, so that horses, if their 
masters will let them, can drink when they are thirsty. 



DEINK FOR ANIMALS. 108 

Every fonntain ought to have a place put low down, so that 
sheep, dogs, cats, and other small animals may be able to 
satisfy their thirst. It is a very cruel practice to pnt mnzzles 
on dogs, that shut np their months and prevent them from 
drinking and from putting out their tongues. 

Dogs perspire chiefly through their tongues and mouths ; 
very little sweat comes out of the pores of their skins. You 
must all have noticed on a hot day that dogs let their tongues 
hang out. When they are running fast they only breathe 
freely when th^ mouth is open and the tongue out, as their 
nostrils are rather small. When muzzles are considered neces- 
sary, they should be made of wire, and large, so that the 
mouth can open. The best way to make a dog go mad is to 
strap up its mouth with the kind of muzzle generally used 
in England. 

Things provided for the Lecture, 

Fresh clot of an ox's blood. 

A clot that has been kept in spirits, from the School of Medicine. 

A hard-boiled egg and a soft-boiled egg. 

Questions for the Fourteenth Lecture. 

1. What part of an egg is albumen ? 

2. Tell me all you can remember about the harm spirits do to the fol- 

lowing organs: stomach, gastric juice, liver, capillaries, heart, 
muscles, nerves ; and wliy it is very cruel to give a baby an^ 
kind of spirits, particularly gin. 

3. Why is water the most cooling of all drinks, and may be safelj 

given to children and dumb animals, particularly dogs and cats? 

4. Why is it dangerous and cruel to put a muzzle on a dog that wiL' 

prevent it from drinking and from opening its mouth ? 



X04 MILK AND MINERAL FOODS. 

LECTURE XV. 

MILK AND MINERAL FOODS. 

New j?iilk is a body- warmer and a flesh-former, aud contHins 
everything the body requires. It is digested in two hours. 

The following things are contained in one pint of cow's 
milk and in one pint of mother's milk : — 





Cow's Milk. 


Mothers MUk. 


Water 


13 oz. 


U oz. 


Flesh -former 


foz. .. 


less. 


Body-warmer 


1} oz. 


more. 


Phospl-.ate of lime, potash, 'I 
and other salts / 


ioz. . 


same. 



Before I say anything about the wonderful properties of 
milk, I must tell you that our forty organs are like forty 
machines, which will get out of order unless they are used 
regularly. The gastric juice that comes out of the stomach, 
the pancieatic juice that comes out of the sweetbread, the 
intestinal juices — that is, the juices that come out of the skin 
lining the bowels — the bile, are all fluids by means of which 
solid foods are digested. 

If we do not eat solid food, these fluids will gradually 
become less and less, just as the so-called joint-oil slowly goes 
away from joints which are not used. If, on the other hand, 
we take too much liquid food, we shall give the organs that 
digest liquid food too much work to do, and they will get 
out of order, and will soon be worn out. 

It is very bad for grown-up people to take only liquid 
food ; you will wonder how it is possible that a baby can 
live on nothing but milk for the first year of its life, for milk 
appears to be a liquid food. 1 will explain how some of the 
milk we drink*always becomes a solid food in the stomach. 
Here is some gastric juice which was taken from the lining 
skin of a calf's stomach after it was killed. It is exactly the 
same kind of gastric juice as that which comes out of the 
stomach of a human being. I will put some into this tumbler, 
and you will see at the end of my lecture that ahont half the 



MILK. 105 

milk Las been turned into a solid substance called ' curd,' and 
the otber half into a liquid called ' whey.' The curd, or thick 
part, is the same substance as cheese. Farmers make cheese 
by putting some of this gastric juice, called ' rennet,' into 
milk. The curd is pressed by weights until it becomes a 
solid cheese, and the whey. runs out. Cheese is a nitio- 
gcnous food and an animal flesh-former. If cheese is made 
from new milk, it contains less water and more nourishment 
than beef and mutton. New milk is milk, you know, that 
has had none of the cream taken away from it. 

Some people make cheese of skimmed milk — that is, milk 
that has had all the cream taken from it. This is very poor 
cheese — so poor that dogs, when they see it, bark at it, pigs 
grunt at it, but neither the dog nor the »pig will bite it. This 
kind of cheese is made in Suffolk and Wales. 

A mother's milk is new milk. If a baby gets its mother's 
milk, its rightful food, the curd that forms the solid food in 
its stomach will be of the richest. 

An infant's liver is very large when it is born, but after- 
wards, an the child grows older, and takes more solid food, it 
does not grow so fast as many other parts of the body. 
Nurses have a practice of bandaging a baby very tightly 
round its body. This squeezes up the liver. Several work- 
ing-women have told me that they have gone into a cottage 
where a baby was screaming, and found that the poor little 
creature had been bound up so tightly that the flesh was all 
in wrinkles. The crying ceased when the bandage was made 
loose. Here is a picture showing the organs that are thrown 
out of place when the body is bound tight in that way.^ A 
piece of flannel put once round and tied with strings is quite 
enough. 

I have proved to you that milk contains a solid nitro- 
genous food, which forms flesh, muscles, &c. I have still to 
prove to you that milk contains carbonaceous foods, or ' body- 
warmers,' that will form fat. The cream that stands at the 
top of milk is of an oily nature, and is therefore light and 
floats on the top.'^ You know how butter is made : the cream 

' I showed Madame Bodichon's diagram. See p. 33. 
' I showed a glass of new milk. 



106 MILK AND MINERAL FOODS. 

is taken off and put into a round barrel, called a churn, and 
moved about until it is made into butter. Butter contains 
a great deal of carbon, and is therefore a body-warmer. 
If you were to feed a baby only on cream, it would soon pine 
to death. All its organs would waste away. When dogs 
have been fed on nothing but fat, they have died after a few 
weeks. If you were to feed a baby on skimmed milk it would 
also probably pine to death in time, because, though skimmed 
milk retains all the sugar of the milk, which is a body- 
warmer, that would not be sufficient, and the fat in its body 
would be burnt away by the oxygen that passes into the 
blood through the lungs. Some mothers and nurses think 
they are giving a baby the best and most nourishing food 
when they let it drink cream ; instead of nourishing the 
child, they are starving it to death. Nothing but new milk 
will nourish it properly. 

We must all eat body-warmers and flesh-formers. One 
kind of food will not feed us. It is curious to think that a 
human being or a dumb animal may be pined to death 
though they are eating food all day long. The men who 
went to discover the great plains of South America were 
pined to death in this way. They could get plenty of food of 
one sort, but they died off one by one because they could not pro- 
cure both body- warmers and flesh-formers. You will now have 
learnt by my lectures that it is necessary that we should take 
both solid and liquid foods, and that we should also eat foods 
that contain nitrogen gas and a substance called carbon. 

There is still another kind of food which I have to describe, 
that we must have to purify our blood, called mineral food. 
I have written down on the blackboard some of the principal 
mineral substances blood ought to contain — iron, sodium, 
lime, potassium. Minerals include all solid bodies found in or 
on the earth that are neither animal nor vegetable. You 
will often read in books and hear people talk about the 
salts that are in the blood. These salts always contain a 
mineral and a gas. These two substances must be united 
chemically, not just mixed as sugar is mixed in water. 

I am going to tell you a great deal about salts, as there 
are several in the blood. To-day I shall only tell you about 



SALTS. 10 r 

one which is called potash. I have some in this bottle, which 
yon see is a white substance. It is composed of a metal 
called potassium and oxygen gas. I will make a small 
quantity of this salt at the end of the lecture. At my next 
lecture I will make another salt, called soda. You all know, 
I am sure, the name of this salt, and must often have seen 
some at home. 

A hundred years ago there was a dreadful complaint 
called the scurvy, that killed nearly all our sailors who took 
long sea- voyages. In those days the voyages were very long, 
for they had only sailing-vessels, no steamers. It took six 
months to go to India (now it takes six weeks) by sea. The 
food these poor men had to eat and drink for nine months 
at a time consisted of salt meat, hard biscuits called sailor's 
biscuits, no bread, bad water, and plenty of spirits. They never 
touched fresh vegetables, such as potatoes. Now, in potatoes 
and all green vegetables there are salts of potash and lime, 
and several others, which the blood must contain to be pure. 

Before the Irish famine, which was caused by the failure 
of the potato crops, the Irish people used to live almost 
entirely on potatoes. During that time, as they ate plenty of 
potatoes, they did not know what it was to suffer from this 
dreadful complaint called the scurvy, but directly they had to 
eat salt meat without any vegetables they had this complaint 

Dr. Guy, a physician who, I am glad to say, is now living, 
has written a most interesting book,^ in which he gives the 
following description of the dreadful sufferings our sailors had 
to endure when they were so shamefully fed at sea 100 years 
ago : — ' Round blotches came under the skin, called " purples." 
The blood ran into the flesh and made the limbs painful and 
stiff. The blood-vessels were so weak that they broke with 
a touch. The gums swelled and became dark. The teetb 
grew loose and fell out of their sockets. The breath was bad, 
and blood poured from the nostrils and eyes. The poor suf- 
ferer became so weak that he fainted at the least exertion, 
and fell down dead in sight of his native land.' 

A ship under the charge of Captain Anson left England 
with a great many sailors. When Captain Anson returned 
' ' Public Health : a Popular Introduction to Sanitary Science,' p. 142. 



108 MILK AND MINERAL FOODS. 

from liis voyage in nine months, he had lost 626 of his men. 
I hope you have all heard of Captain Cook, who was the first 
man to sail round the world. I am delighted to tell you he 
was a Yorkshire man. He lived at the same time as Captain 
Anson. His father was a labourer, and resided at Whitby. 
You see he was the son of a working-man. Captain Cook 
was not only very clever, but very kind-hearted and good. 
He could not bear to see men suffer : he therefore determined 
to find out how scurvy could be prevented or cured. He soon 
saw that where people had plenty of fresh vegetables they did 
not have scurvy. He could not take enough potatoes on 
board his ship to last a great many months, but he could take 
lemon juice, which happens to contain a great deal of potash. 
He also sent the sailors on shore whenever it was possible, so 
that they might eat any fruit or vegetables they could find. 
By this means he kept his sailors in good health. After a 
voyage of three years he returned to England, having only 
lost four of his men. I hope you will all some day read the 
life of this good man. There is a small Life sold for a penny, 
which you can get at Wood's, the h'u>kseller in Market Street, 
Leeds. 

I will now show the experiment by which the salt called 
potash is made. This salt is made of a metal called potassium 
and a gas called oxygen. I have some water in this tumbler. 
Water, you know, is made of two gaseis, oxygen and hydro- 
gen. I will take a small piece of potassium out of this 
bottle and put it into the water. The potassium is so fond of 
oxygen that it will join chemically with the oxj-gen that is in 
the water, and burst into a flame. You may always know 
when two or more substances have joined chemically, because 
heat is made and also a new substance is formed. When the 
oxygen gas and the metal potassium united, a great deal of 
heat was made — because you saw the flame. If we look at 
the bottom of the glass, we shall find that a new substance has 
been made — potash. Here it is. This white stuff is potash, 
the salt that is found in the greatest quantity in potatoes. 
There is also a great deal of it in all green vegetables, such as 
lettuce, cabbages, and in all kinds of fruit — oranges, &c. 
liemons contain the most potash, and that is the reason why 



SALTS. 109 

the lemon juice Captain Cook took in his vessel, and ^ave to 
his sailors, did them so much good. 

Things provided for the Lecture, 
Some gastric juico from a calf's stomach. 
Two tumblers of new milk. 
A small packet of soda. 
Some potassium. 
Madame Bodichon's picture of the organs of digestion displaced by 

lacing. 
Some water. 
Some potash in a bottle. 

Questions for the Fifteenth Lecture. 

1. Why would an infant, a grown-up person, or an} ai.imal be pined 

to death if they were fed on nothing but cream cr any of the 
carbonaceous foods called ' body-warmers,' and why would they 
also be pineci to death if fed only on ' flesh-formers,' or nitro- 
genous food ? 

2. Why is it necessary that some of the food we eat daily should be 

solid food ? 

3. Why is it very wrong to bind an infant's body with anything that is 

in the least tight ? 

4. What dreadful complaint did our sailors suffer from about a hundred 

years ago, and who was the man who discovered how to cure it ? 
6. Name some of the chief vegetables that contain the most potash. 



LECTURE XVI. 

MINERAL FOODS {continued). 
T PROMISED at my last lecture that to-day I would make a salt 
called soda. I have a piece in my hand ; you see it is the 
same soda your mothers use on washing-days. There is a 
great deal of soda in soap ; that is the reason why washer- 
women use a great quantity when the clothes are very dirty. 
Soda takes out the dirt directly ; but, as it also takes out the 
colour of clothes, it ought only to be used in washing coarse 
white materials, or materials that soda does not spoil, for it 
does not spoil all coloured things. 

Soda is composed of a metal called sodium and oxygen 
gas. T have some sodium in this bottle ; I will put a small 
piece of it into this tumbler of water. Directly it touches the 



110 MUIERAL FOODS. 

water, which yon know is partly made of oxygen gas, it will 
unite chemically with that oxygen, and there will be a great 
amount of heat given off. A new substance will, of course, be 
made by this union, and it will fall to the bottom of the 
tumbler. I am afraid there will be so small a quantity that 
it will be scarcely visible. Soda is, like potash, an alkali. I 
must now explain what an alkali is. I have some water in 
this glass which is very acid. I should like one or two of you 
to come and taste it. If the water is acid, it will make this 
piece of blue paper turn red, because all acids turn certain 
vegetable blue colours red. Now I will put some soda into 
this acid water, and you will find afterwards that no acid 
taste will remain, because the soda is an alkali, and takes 
away the acidity. Some salts are alkalies. 

When our food is being digested in the stomach it is all 
made very acid by the gastric juice. After this acid food 
passes a good distance down the intestine, it is said that it be- 
comes alkaline, partly owing to the pancreatic juice, and partly 
to its admixture with the bile, bnt chiefly owing to tho juices 
from the intestine itself. 

I will just mention a few salts whoso names you know. 
Salt that we eat is a salt. Tt is made of a gas and a mineral. 
Sodium is the mineral, the same one that is in soda. The 
name of the gas you have never heard ; it is called chlorine 
gas. There are many different kinds of gases. I have only 
told yon during my lectures about four gases — oxygen, hydro- 
gen, nitrogen, and carbonic acid gas. People cannot live 
unless they can have the salt called salt. In some countries 
persons nsed to be tortured to death by not being allowed to 
have any salt either in their food or to eat. 

The hard part of all our bones consists almost entirely of 
a salt called phosphate of lime. I have some of the phosphate 
of lime in this bottle. This soft bone I hold in my hand • is 
so soft because all the phosphate and carbonate of lime have 
been taken out of it ; all that is left of the blade-bone is only 
gelatine, the same stuff we make jelly of. Here is some gela- 
tine in this packet. Bread contains more of this salt — phos- 
phate of lime — than any other food. That is why boys and 
' I showed a blade-bone from the School of Medicine. 



SALTS. Ill 

girls who are growing ought to eat a great deal of bread. 
Farmers put all the old bones they can get on those fields in 
which they sow wheat. The heat of the sun separates the 
lime and phosphorus, which with oxygen make the salt called 
phosphate of lime, from the gelatine. The lime and phos- 
phorus then sink into the earth, and nourish the wheat while 
it is growing, and we eat these two substances again when 
the wheat is ground into flour. 

You must remember that heat makes things join together 
chemically, and that heat can also separate theru. Great care 
should therefore be taken by the cook to prevent the heat 
being so great that it will injure the substances contained in 
food. I told you that vegetables and fruit contained a great 
quantity of potash. We can eat a great deal of fruit without 
cooking it, such as apples and oranges, and also a great many 
green vegetables which we make into salad, such as lettuce, 
mustard and cress, onions, &c. In France they eat a great 
quantity of salad all the year round. Water in which vege- 
tables have been boiled contains a great deal of saline matter. 
This water ought to be used for soups, and not thrown away. 

During the next few lectures I intend to tell you how food 
ought to be cooked. So you must remember all I have just 
been saying to you. Our blood requires a great many mine- 
rals as well as salts, such as iron and magnesium. One 
reason why people lose their colour, and grow very pale and 
white, is because they do not get enough iron. We get o 
great deal of mineral food in the water we drink. This water 
comes from rivers and springs, and as it runs along over and 
through the earth it dissolves the minerals that are in the soil, 
just as sugar dissolves in water. The clearest water often 
contains a great many substances, both good and bad, which 
we cannot see with the naked eye. Some iron has been dis- 
solved in this water, though it looks quite clear. 

I dare say some of you have been to Harrogate and 
tasted the Harrogate waters. There are iron and sulphur 
wells there. People who suffer from skin complaints go to 
Harrogate on purpose to drink these waters, to make their 
blood pure. Very likely if these invalids had understood 
what the blood requires, and had eaten the right kind of 



112 



MINERAL FOODS. 



foods, they would never have suffered from an unhealthy 
skin. 

It is just a hundred years since Dr. Priestley discovered 
oxygen gas. Before that time everybody thought that water 
was an element — that is to say, one thing only. They did 
not dream that it was made of two gases. They also thought 
the air we breathe was an element. 

Our bodies, I have before told yon, contain an immense 
quantity of water. You know, if a man weighs 154 pounds, 
111 pounds of that weight will be water. Where do we get 
this great quantity of water from ? No wise person in health 
drinks more than from two to three pints daily of any liquid. 
A pint is equal to a pound and a quarter. I will read over 
this food table, and then you will know where we ^et nearly 
all this great quantity of water from. 

The following list will show how mmch water there is in 
animal and vegetable foods. 

(Sixteen ounces make one pound.) 



1 

5^ 






COKTAINS OP 


1 


Onk 










K^ 


Pound op 








., 


Body- warm ere 


Flesh-formers 


Water 


Ashes 


3i 


Bhe.vd . . . 


about 10 oz. 


about 2 oz. 


about 4 oz. 


about i oz. 


4 


Meat . 




1 


, 3 „ 


» 3 ,. 


„ 10 „ 


„ j „ 


H 


Cheese . 




i » 


. 4J „ 


„ 5J„ 


„ 5*,. 


.. i „ 


2 


Milk. . 




1 




i . 


» 13i„ 


>i 2 »• 


3 


Eggs . . 






I h" 


'. nl. 


» 12 ,, 






Butter . 




\ , 




None 


„ 2 „ 






Suet . . 






. ^4 » 


A trace 


„ 2 „ 


i 




Dripping 






14 j] 


None 


,. 2 „ 






Oils . . 




r 


14 


" 


„ 2 „ 






Lahu . 






14 




„ 2 „ 






Loaf Sugar . 




» 14 „ 


„ 


,, 2 „ 






AUROWROOT . 


[ ' 


' ^^ " 


" 


„ 2 „ 





DRY FOODS. 
(Grains, Setxis, &c.) 

Wheat. Peas. Semolina. 

Oats. Rice Macaroni. 

lu one pound of these there are about 1^ oz. of water. 

12 „ „ fat. 
2 to 3 ,, „ flesh- formers. 

I „ „ salts and minerals. 



WATER IN FOOD 112 





WET FOODS. 






(All Green Vegetables aud Fruits.) 




Potatoes. 


V 


Apples. 




Turnips. 


\ 


Oranges. 




Carrots. 


] 


Gooseberries. 


Onions. 


J 


Currants, 


&c. 


Lettuce and al 


1 kinds of salad. 


Lemons. 




Khubarb. 




Pumpkin. 





Chiefly given to feed Dumb Animals. 

Linseed. Grass. 

Rapt! seed Clover. 

Lentils. 

In on© pound of these ther'i are about 

12 oz. to 14 oz. of water. 

2 „ fat. 

1 „ flesh-formers. 

^ „ salts aud minerals. 

You see that every kind of food contains a great deal oi 
water. The reason we suffer from thirst is because our blood 
does not contain enough water, or else contains too much 
saHne matter ; we must either have eaten very dry salt foodr 
or have perspired a great deal. In hot countries people pei 
spire much more than they do in cold countries. They must 
either drink a great deal of liquid or they must eat food that 
contains a great deal of water. Taking a bath relieves thirst. 
There is a great deal more water in moist vegetable foods, 
such as potatoes, fruit, &c., than there is in animal food. 
People eat a great deal more vegetable food in hot countries 
than they do of butcher's meat and other animal food. 
Pumpkins contain a great deal of water, as much as fifteen 
ounces in every pound. They grow in very hot countries in 
the middle of sandy deserts where water is seldom to be 
found. A gentleman who had both seen and tasted a 
pumpkin told me that it looks like a big melon, and that 
when you open it nothing but clear water runs out. How 
thankful travellers must be to find this fruit growing in the 

I 



Il4 MINERAL FOODS. 

middle of a desert. Grains and seeds, yon see, have very 
little water compared with vegetables and fruit. 

I have in this bottle the quantity of water — 1^ ounce — 
that can be taken out of a pound of wheat. In this bottle I 
have the quantity of water — 14 ounces — that can be taken 
out of a pound of potatoes. No wonder the poor Irish people 
were not thirsty when they lived chiefly on. potatoes. When 
the potato crops failed they were obliged to eat bread, and 
they were also obliged to drink tea and coffee. They never 
took tea and coffee before the famine. 

Bread, as I have said before, is a very dry food ; we are 
always obliged to take some liquid with it. I have no doubt 
that dumb animals suffer dreadfully, simply because those who 
have the care of them do not understand about food. They 
ought to live out of doors, where they can eat fresh green 
grass, &c., which contains so much water ; and as they are 
out in the fields at night as well as day, they drink the dew 
that falls on the grass, and when it rains they get a great deal 
of moisture in that way. Animals that live on green vege- 
tables may not require as much liquid as those animals do 
which live on dry foods, such as barley and oats. It is, how- 
ever, wrong to suppose that they do not require any water 
Sheep, cows, and other animals are often taken long journeys 
by land and water, and are driven along dusty roads, without 
having any water given to ^hem. Two persons I know have 
seen sheep trying to drink the most filthy water as they were 
driven along. The cattle- drivers only laugh when yon say 
they are thirsty. 

A gentleman who went to buy a young rabbit from a 
rabbit dealer, a few weeks since, told me that he found the 
man out. His wife showed him a fine rabbit which had a 
large brood of young ones ; the rabbit was feeding them en- 
tirely with her own milk. The poor animal was eating some 
kind of dry food — barley, I think. She was not allowed any 
water. My friend begged hard that the woman would give it 
something to drink. ' I dare not, sir ; my husband would be 
so angry ; he says they must not have any water.' A gentle- 
man once fed a rabbit entirely on barley. In three weeks it 
^as dead A great many animals, such as parrots, are treated 



IMPORTANCE OF WATER FOR ANIMALS. 115 

very cruelly in some zoological gardens, because the keepers 
have these ignorant ideas. 

No wonder there is so much diseased butcher's meat in 
the markets, when we know the cruelty that is practised 
towards animals, and it will ever be so until those who have 
the management of them are less ignorant. I am thankful to 
think we can eat animal and vegetable food, which will make 
us strong and healthy, without being obh'ged to eat much 
butcher's meat. 

The late Sir William Fairbairn, of Manchester, paid a 
visit to several foreign countries on purpose to learn how the 
working-people in those countries were fed. Ho found that 
the strongest men were the Turkish rowers. They eat bread, 
fruit, very little meat, and drink no wine or spirits. It is not 
wholesome to eat a great deal of meat, and I will now explain 
to you why. 

The stomach must be nearly filled, so that the bag is 
stretched out, or the food cannot be properlj digested. On 
the other hand, if the stomach is quite full, the food has no 
room to be moved from side to side ; therefore it will remain 
undigested, because it cannot be broken up into small pieces. 
Half a pound of butcher's meat is considered enough for a 
man at one meal. Even a pound would not fill his stomach ; 
he can therefore easily eat more than is good for him. People 
feel a craving until the stomach is sufiBciently filled. In some 
countries earth and clay are mixed with the food to give it 
greater bulk, so that it may satisfy the stomach. Horses fed 
with oats, or any kind of grain which takes up little room, 
have straw, shavings, sawdust, mixed up with it for the same 
reason. People who eat a great quantity of meat daily often 
suffer from most* dreadful complaints — the stone, and gout. 
If they get a slight cut or wound it often will not heal 
quickly. The Americans in the United States, rich and poor, 
eat as much butcher's meat as they like. No English people 
suffer so much from stomach complaints, nor are more un- 
healthy. It is said that the w^orking people in Ireland, who 
live chiefly on vegetables (the potato), are not afflicted with 
gout. The French rarely suff'er from disorder of the stomach. 
They eat at least a third less meat than we do, twice as much 

I 2 



116 MINERAL FOODS. 

bread, and a great quantity of vegetables and fruit. Our 
blood, to be healthy, must contain at least forty different sub- 
stances. These forty different things can only get into the 
blood through the food we eat. The French understand what 
foods contain, and they are determined that they will cook 
their food in such a manner that all these substances shall be 
carefully preserved. All flavouring matters are spoiled by 
too much heat. Beef does not taste like mutton. Vegetable 
foods, also, have each their different flavour : an onion does 
not taste like an apple. This flavouring matter is much 
weakened by heat. Albumen I showed you was also spoiled 
by being put into boiling water. The French never boil any 
good wholesome food. The first lesson a young French girl 
learns is to cook gently. The food in France is cooked for a 
much longer time than ours ; in fact, it is always thoroughly 
tender and digestible. We are in such a hurry and fuss ; and 
think that if the saucepan is only put on a good fire, and the 
contents boil, all is right. I will try and show you, during 
my lectures on cookery, that boiling is a most extravagant 
process, that we waste coal, burn our saucepans and faces, and 
injure our tempers, all for very little purpose, because the 
food upon which we have spent our time is spoilt. We are 
said to bo among the worst of cooks. More butcher's meat is 
eaten in England than in any other country. The French are 
the best cooks in the world. Though they are less wealthy 
than we are, their poor people are belter nourished than ours. 
I am not a vegetarian, but I believe in living as the French 
do, on a great variety of the most nourishing, simple, and 
well- cooked foods, and that butcher's meat is not the only food 
by which we can make flesh and strengthen our nerves and 
muscles. Fortunately, the most nourishing foods are the 
cheapest, as I intend to show in the next lecture. 

Things provided for the Lecture. 

Three bottles containing the quantities of water taken respectivelj 

from a pound of potatoes, a pound of rice, and a pound of wheat. 
One pound of potatoes. 
„ „ „ rice. 
A softenml blade-bone from the School of Medicine. 



IMPORTANCE OF DIFFERENT KINDS OF FOOD. 117 

A bottle containing phosphate of lime, 

„ ,, „ sodium. 

„ „ „ iron-water, to show how minerals may be dissolved 

and not seen by the naked eye. 
SoKie*olue litmus-paper. 

Experiment. — Made some soda and prcved it was an alkali. 

Questions for the Sixteenth Lecture. 

1. If a human being or a dumb animal weighs 154 lbs., Ill lbs. 

of that weight will be water. How does all that water enter 
the body ? 

2. Why is it cruel not to give water to sheep, rabbits, and all other 

animals en long journeys, or when they are not finding their own 
food in fields ? 

3. "Why is it good to eat fruit and uncooked vegetables, such as 

oranges, mustard and cress, and all kinds of salad ? 



LECTURE XYIL 

FOODS {continued). 



After all I have told you about foods, I hope you will 
clearly understand that it is impossible for us to be healthy 
and strong unless we eat every day three entirely different 
kinds of food — nitrogenous, carbonaceous, and niineral foods. 
We will now read over some parts of the food table that I did 
not read over last time. I then only pointed out to you that 
there is, of course, much more water m wet foods, such as 
green vegetables and fruits, than there is in dry foods, such as 
grain — wheat and barley. 

We will now compare the principal vegetable flesh-formers 
with the principal animal flesh-formers, to see if we could live 
on animal and vegetable nitrogenous foods, that would make 
our neives and muscles strong, without eating much butcher's 
meat, as butcher's meat is verv dear. 



118 FOODS. 



Nitrogenous Foods called Flesli-formers. 

Vegetable. 



Flour. 

Oatmeal. 

Rice (very weak). 



Animal. 
Meat. 
Fish. 
Poultry. 
Game. 

Eggs. Barley, &c. , 

Cheese. Revalenta Arabica (ground 

lentils). 

Macaroni. 

Semolina. 

The two principal vegetable flesli-formers eaten in Eng- 
land and Scotland are bread and oatmeal. 

Time to Digest. 
Hours. 

3^ 2 lbs. of bread cost 5d., and contain 3 oz. flesh-former, 

20^ oz. body-warmer, ^ oz. ashes, 8 oz. water. 

3^ 2 lbs. of oatmeal cost 6d., and contain 4 oz. flesh- 

former, 24 oz. body-Trarmer, j^ oz. ashes, 3 oz. water 
(uncooked). 

The principal animal flesh-formers are beef, mutton, and 
rich cheese. 

Time to Digest. 
Hours. 
3^ 2 lbs. of beef or mutton cost Is. lOd., and contain 7 oz. 

flesh-former, 4^ oz. body-warmer, | oz. ashes, 20 oz. 
water. 

Component parts of rich Cheddar cheese in 2 lbs. : — Flesh- 
former, 9^ oz. ; fat, 9| oz. ; ashes, 1^ oz. ; water, ^ oz. 

Flour, oatmeal, ground rice, ground peas — 1 lb. of any 
one of these vegetable flesh-formers will give a man as much 
strength as 3 lbs. of lean beef, or 3 lbs. of veal, or 8 lbs. of 
ham, boiled, or nine bottles of Bass's pale ale, or six bottles 
of Guinness's stout, lOd. per bottle. There is also as much 
nourishment in 1 lb. of double Gloucester cheese as there is 
in the above quantities of animal food and drink. 

We will now see whether there are not a great many- 
animal carbonaceous foods, besides the fat that comes from 
butcher's meat, which are very nourishing. There are also 
many vegetable carbonaceous foods. 



DIFFERENT EFFECTS OF FOODS. 119 



Carbonaceoiis Foods. Body -warmers. 



AnimaL 
Butter. 
Dripping. 
Suet. 
Oil. 
Lard. 
Fat. 



Vegetable. 

'Sugar. 

J"reacle. 

Starch, which is in 
bread and all vege- 
tables. 



A. fall-grown man requires daily 10 oz. of body-warmers 
and 5 oz. of flesh-formers. Water and ashes are not in- 
cluded in these quantities. These 15 oz. of solid food can 
be got either from animal or vegetable food. But some 
vegetables contain a smaller proportion of solid matter, be- 
cause they have so much more water ; we must thei-efore 
eat more of them. They take a longer time to digest than 
meat. 

Tou see that a working-man, it is said, ought to eat 
10 oz. of carbonaceous food daily, and only 5 oz. of flesh - 
formers. It is also said that 7 oz. of that food will be burnt 
in his body in 24 hours. That means that the carbon in 
these foods will join chemically with the oxygen in his body, 
and make the heat, strength, or force (for they are the same 
thing) he wants. Scientific men can tell how much fat will 
be burnt in a man's body when he lifts a heavy weight from 
the ground. The harder a man works, and the hotter he 
grows, the more fat he burns. He will not burn all the 
ten ounces of carbonaceous foods he eats in the day. Three 
ounces of the fat must be kept to lie between his muscles 
and cover his bones. 

Animal carbonaceous foods, such as suet, butter, and all 
animal fats, are stronger body-warmers than vegetable fats or 
oils, because they contain more carbon. These animal fats 
are therefore the best kind for a working-man to eat who 
works out in the fresh air, where he will get plenty of oxygen 
gas. People who take very little exercise should be careful 
not to eat much carbonaceous food, or they will become fat. 
There was a French baker who grew to be so enormously fat 
that he did not like to go out of doors, because people stared at 



120 FOODS. 

him, and rude little children in the streets made fan of him. 
He could not even raise his arm to put on his hat or stoop 
to draw on his boots. He thought perhaps he shoald grow 
thinner if he lived on slops, such as gruel, &c. But, alas ! 
this food only made him grow fatter and weaker. Fortu- 
nately he met some one who understood the nature of foods, 
and who persuaded him to take nitrogenous foods, that make 
muscle, not fat, such as butcher's meat, cheese, eggs, &c., and 
also to take plenty of exercise. By following this sensible 
advice he soon became of moderate size. 

It is very unwise of people to persevere in eating anything 
that they do not like or that does not agree with them, and 
it is cruel as well as unwise to force a child to take food that 
it does not fancy. Some people cannot eat hard-boiled eggs ; 
others do not like them when they are boiled soft, and some 
cannot eat them at all. To some people shell-fish are 
occasionally very indigestible. I know a lady whose face 
becomes covered with large red spots if she eats oysters or 
any kind of shell -fish. I have heard of a man who was very 
fond of crabs, though they disagreed with him dreadfully. 
He determined he would try and make them agree, so he ate 
one every day for a week. Each day he became worse ; at 
last he was so very ill that his family were obliged to send for 
a doctor. Th« medical man directly enquired about the food he 
had been eating. The reply was, 'Nothing but crabs.' * Do 
they generally agree with you ? ' * Oh, no ; that is why 
I eat them. I was determined that my stomach should not 
master me.' The medical man assured him that it was only 
wonderful that he was alive, and that the crabs had not 
killed him. 

Some men and women are so fortunate as to be able to 
eat and enjoy all kinds of food. A gentleman in Leeds told 
me the other day he had often eaten three-quarters of a pound 
of rich Cheddar cheese at a meal, and only felt stronger and 
better for it. Cheese is cheaper and contains less water and 
more nutri'^nt solids than butcher's meat. 

Healthy working-men who labour hard in fresh air can 
eat anything that is wholesome and well cooked. If we 
want good digestions, we must work hard too and earn on-' 



SOUP. 121 

bread. Idle people who usf* neither body nor mind suffer 
a great deal from indigestion As a rule they eat too much, 
"oecanse they have nothing else vO think about but what they 
shall have for their dinners. 

As I have said before, we should all try and eat every day a 
variety of food. The English people are so ignorant about the 
nature of foods that they are afraid of eating anything but just 
what they are accustomed to eat, and they often cook these 
few things very badly. If English people instead of French 
had been shut up in Paris for six months during the Prussian 
war, thousands of English wonld have died from starvation, 
because they would not have known how to make the best use 
of the little food they possessed. The French people are 
accustomed to eat nearly every herb and vep:etable that grows 
which is palatable and not poisonous. By their freedom from 
prejudice, their knowledge of foods and cookery, they were 
able during the siege of Paris to make the best use of every 
bit of animal and vegetable food they could get hold of. 

In France, Germany, and Russia both rich and poor take 
soup every day. It is the cheapest and most nourishing hot 
dish a pool woman can make for her family. 

When I was in Russia, eleven years ago, I called to see a 
very poor widow with a large family who lived in Riga. 
Though it was winter time her little room looked very comfort- 
able and clean. Her children were sitting round a table enjoy- 
ing hot soup, which looked Very good. 

We were in Germany the year before last, and stayed at a 
beautiful town called Baden-Baden. I fortunately met a Ger- 
man lady there who knew a great deal about the poor and how 
they lived, because she used to go among them with money 
and other charities sent through her by the Princess Hohcn- 
lohe, who was a half sister to our Queen Victoria. This good 

princess was very much beloved. Miss , the German lady, 

took me to an infant school established by the Princess Hohen- 
lohe. I also visited a school where poor children had a dinner 
every day, as well as their schooling. This dinner consisted 
of soup and a small loaf, or cake, of beautiful bread. I had 
some of this soup, which I found so good that I asked the 
matron if she would kindly tell me how it was made. ' Wn 



122 FOODS. 

getup early,' she said — *at four o'clock — and cut some beef up 
into small pieces, put it into the oven, and stew it gently for 
four hours. Then we add milk, flour, and vegetables, which 
we stew very gently together, and the children have the soup 
about twelve o'clock with the loaf of bread,' 

This soup, you sec, contained the three kinds of food which 
make all the forty things our blood requires. The bread that 
the children put into the soup would make it nourishing and 
digestible, so that the organs would by this means have both 
liquid and solid food to work upon. The soup was also hot 
food. Hot food is much more digestible than cold food for 
people of all ages, but it is particularly necessary for the 
young and old. Their circulation is not very strong. Hot 
food enters the blood more quickly, and makes the heart beat 
faster, so that the blood circulates more rapidly. Directly an 
organ works hard more blood is required to repair that organ, 
for you know they are constantly wearing out. If you have 
eaten a good dinner you feel sleepy ; the blood leaves the brain 
and flies to the stomach, where it is wanted. Invalids who 
cannot sleep ought to have food in the night ; then the blood 
leaves the brain to help the stomach, and the patient falls asleep. 
It is a bad habit to work either with the head or the hands 
directly after a heavy meal. 

During my next four lectures I intend to teach you the 
principles of cooking. Before wo begin to cook I think we 
ought to know all about the good things contained in the 
food we are going to cook. As I intend to show you how to 
make very strong beef-tea, I will read over to you the names of 
the juices and the different solid substances that beef contains. 

Tabic of the Substances contained in (he Juices of Flesh. 



Albumen. 
Caseine. 
Sarcine. 
Lactic Acid. 
Butyric Acid. 



Common salt and other salts. 
Red ccloiiring matter. 
More potash than soda. 
Osmazome, flavouring matter. 



You see albumen is put first, as it is one of the most impor- 
tant substances. If albumen, as I told you before, is cooked 
in boiling water (212°) it is so far affected that it becomes 



BEEF-TEA. 123 

hard, and is then much less easily digestible. The savoury 
essences will also be separated by that heat and pass away in 
the steam 

We will suppose that there is a person verj ill, whose nerves 
arp very weak, and we want to make some strong beef- 
tea as quickly as possible, that .will very soon be digested and 
made into blood, so as to nourish the weak nerves. What we 
must do is to try and get out all the good things that are in 
this piece of beef. Beef is the most nourishing animal food. 
Raw meat always feels wet ; it is because the juices run out. 
Remember that the juices contain albumen, which is of a sticky 
nature. If I were to put this piece of meat just as it is into 
boiling water, the boiling water would harden the albumen 
that has run out with the juices and make it feel wet, just as 
if I .were to take some glue and put it all over the meat. But 
I do not want to ke§p the juices in ; I want to get them all 
out as quickly as possible. The cook will therefore cut the 
raw meat up into small pieces of about an inch in size, and 
put them into cold water. This meat weighs two ounces ; I 
shall add exactly two ounces of water and a little salt. Take 
care and only put in a very small quantity, because salt hardens 
the flesh, just as boiling water would do. I will let the meat 
stand in the cold water for an hour or two if I have time ; 
then I will put the jar which contains the meat into an 
oven moderately hot, and let it remain there for at least half- 
an hour. 

Here is some beef-tea that our cook made this morning ; 
it contains the same quantity of meat and water that we have 
just used. It stood for half-an-hour in cold water, and then 
it was stewed gently in the oven for the same time. Just see 
how good it looks. Here is some beef-tea in another jar that 
was made at the same time with the same quantity of meat 
and w^ater. The only difference is that it was put into boiling 
water and boiled for half-an-hour. You see how poor this 
beef-tea looks, and what a small quantity there is of it. The 
steam which is made when water boils carries off a great 
many good things and wastes the beef- tea. This beef- tea 
would not strengthen the poor invalid nearly as well as that 
which has been properly made. 



124 COOKING. 

Things provided for the Lecture. 
Food table. 

Names of the substances contained in the juices of meat. 
Two glass jars of beef -tea, made from 2 oz. of beef and 2 oz. of water, 
according to the receipts given in the lecture. 

Questions for the Seventeenth Lecture. 

1. Name the three kinds of food we must eat daily that will keep u? 

warm, make our forty organs grow and be strong, and keep our 
blood and skin healthy. 

2. What dish containing these three kinds of food do the French, 

Germans, and Russians, rich people and poor people, give 

their children every day ? How would you make this dish of 

food? 
?,. Why is hot food more digestible than cold food, particularly for 

children and old people ? 
4. How would you get all the juices out of tfaeat, and how would you 

make the strongest and most digestible beef-tea ? 



LECTURE XVin. 

COOKING (BOILING). 



Last Wednesday I told you how yon must cook any kind of 
animal food so that you might get all the juices out of it 
without hardening the albumen. To-day I am going to show 
you how you must cook animal and veg*»table foods so that 
uU their juices may be kept in. At the last lecture I read over 
the names of the different substances that there are in ths 
juices of animal foods. 

Vegetable foods, you know, contain substances which are 
very much like those of animal foods, only they have more 
minerals and salts. 

All animals, except man, eat their food raw (uncooked). 
They eat the same things as we do. Why, then, do we take 
the trouble to cook our food ? Because we find from expe- 
rience that some foods Imve a much better flavour when they 



VEGETABLE COOKING. 



ilO 



ai-e cooked. For instance, if jou tried to eat a piece of raw 
beef, you would find it had a very different flavour from that 
of the roast beef you eat on Christmas Day. A raw potato 
does not taste at all like a boiled one. 

In every kind of food there is a substance that makes that 
particular food taste unlike any other food. The flavouring 
matter that is in butcher's meat, poultry, and game is called 
by a long name — osmazome. Like all flavouring matter it ia 
very delicate and is injured by great heat. We eat fruits and 
salad uncooked because we find their flavour is spoilt when 
they are boiled. If you look at the food table you will see 
that some vegetables take a longer time to digest than animal 
food. I believe they would digest much more quickly if we 
understood how to cook them properly. 



Hours to 
Digest 


One Pound of 


Hours to 
Digest 


One Pound of 


3 

I' 

3 

4 
4 

4 

1 


Meat. 
Cheese. 

Milk. 

l^ggs- 

Veal. 

Fowla. 

Pork. 

Tripe. 


P 

2i 


Bread. 

Potatoes boiled. 
Potatoes roasted. 
Cabbage. 

Kidney or Ilaricot 
Beans. 



You see that a roasted potato only takes two hours to 
digest, a boiled potato three hours and a half. One reason, 
I think, is because the roasted potato has lost none of its 
salts, as it does when it is boiled. The salts and juices all 
help digestion. 

Here is the picture of a slice of a potato. You see that 
the starch grains are held between cells or spaces, which look 
like a network. The substance that makes that network is 
chiefly cellulose gluten. In young potatoes, and particularly 
in all young fruit and vegetables, there is a great deal more of 
this network, which is called cellular tissue. Animal foods 
contain a cellular tissue, which forms a sort of framework in 
the organ, but it is not like the vegetable tissue, as it gives 
gluten when it is boiled. One reason why we cook food is 



126 



COOKING. 



to make the tissues tender. We cannot do so if we harden 
the albumen of which they are principally made. I think 




Highly majTriified slice of a young potato, a is the rind, and is like cork on the outside 
skin ; the inner skin is albuminoiis and makes flesh. The grains in the many-sided 
spaces or cells are starch grains ; the network that holds them is called cellular tissue. 



you must be curious to know with what degree of heat you 
are to cook, as 1 have told you never to cook meat or 
vegetables in boiling water. 

You see I have written down this information, and yon 
must copy it carefully, as it is very important you should be 
able to remember it when you have to cook for yourselves. 
Every kind of animal and vegetable nitrogenous food will be 
thoroughly well cooked if allowed to remain long enough in 
water that is at 180°. The albumen becomes solid at that 
heat, but it will become hard and less easily digestible, like 
the albumen in a hard-boiled egg, if it is cooked in boiling 
water, which requires a temperature of 212°. 

I am now going to show you how to boil a potato. Re- 
member, if you know how to cook a potato, you will know 
how to boil any fresh green vegetable. First of all, the potato 
must be nicely washed in cold water, as this has been. Next 
3'ou must take out all the earth that rests in the little holes. 
Some people use a knife to do this, but a knife may cut the 
skin. A brush, such as our cook has in her hand, is much 
better. You must not let any vegetables stop more than a 
few minutes in cold water (of course you would never wash 
any vegetable in warm water), or it will make the skin soft 
and the juices will come out. The skin of a potato is made 
of a corky substance. You know people pat corks into 
bottles to prevent the liquids from running out. Well, this 



VEGETABLE COOKING. 127 

outside skin of the potato, being of a corky nature, will pre- 
vent the juices from running out. That is why the skin of a 
potato ought never to be taken off before it is cooked. The 
Irish, w^ho nearly live on potatoes, do not take off the skins. 
If you look at the picture of the slice of potato, you will see 
this corky skin. The next skin contains a little albumen. 
Now I will put this potato into boiling water and let it 
remain there for a few minutes, just to allow the boiling 
water to harden the albumen in the second skin. Its salts 
and juices will then all be fastened up, and the boiling water 
will not have had time to go far into the potato to harden the 
tissues and juices. It has now remained a few minutes (which 
is quite long enough) on the fire. I will take the saucepan 
off and place it on this hob, as the heat of this hob is great 
enough to keep the water at 180°. Here it must remain for 
three-quarters of an hour. It is not necessary to keep watch- 
ing how hot the water is, for you will soon learn from expe- 
rience that a hot hob near a warm fire or a moderate oven 
will keep the water at the right heat. A saucepan ought 
never to be left at the edge of the fire, for then the sides 
would get burnt and the food also. You see that the 
sancepan has its cover on ; this is a most important part of 
cooking. The cover should be instantly put on when the 
food is put in. No food should be put into a saucepan that 
has no lid, because the steam will then take away the heat 
and the flavours. 

Vegetables cooked in the proper way require a longer 
time, it is true, but surely it is worth while to give them 
more time, if by so doing they are made more nourishing and 
digestible. Less fire will also do when the pot need not be 
kept ' a-boiling ' — a m.ost favourite English expression. Our 
kitchen grates are old-fashioned ones. When our cook 
thought she ought to let the saucepans boil she often found 
it was necessary to have two fires. Now she finds one enough 
leven when she has a large dinner to prepare, and she tells 
me she never feels in a hurry, as she used to do, nor afraid lest 
the food should be burnt or underdone. 

I am very anxious that you should understand that it is 
very bad — indeed, dangerous to some people — to eat the skin 



128 



COOKING. 



of a roasted potato. Now that yon know tlic skin is like cork, 
you will understand why it is unwholesome. 

Wo will now boil an egg, so that the albumen shall become 
solid, but not hard, and the yolk shall be soft. 1 will put 
this egg into boiling water, but I will not let the saueepau 
remain an instant on tlie fire. 1 only wish it to bcpnt iuto 
boiling water. The cover, you see, is on. 1 will now put it on 
this hob, which is warm, and there I will let it remain five 
minutes; a minute or two longer will not make it hard. It 
is very important to keep on the lid ; indeed, an egg could 
not be cooked in this way unless f ho .saucepan was covered, 
because it is cooked a great deal b}- the steam, 

I will now poach an egg. The egg which is taken out of 
its shell will be put into this boiling water. It is really 
boiling water, as yon sec by this thermometer. You will find 
from experience that water docs not always boil <lirectly it 
begins to bubble. The safe plan, therefore, is to let it boil for 
some minutes before you put anything into it. Directly I 
put the egg into the boiling water, I put the cover on, and 
instantly remove the saucepan from the fire. It shall remain 
on the hob about the same time that I let the other egg 
remain — from five to ten minutes, just as it suits me. No 
doubt it woula be quite done in five minutes, but it would not 
be spoilt if left a little longer. By cooking an egg in this way 
we do not require a clock or a thermometei*, and if it is a 
good fresh egg it will bo beautifully cooked. I have found 
that stale or bad eggs can never be cooked well by any heat, 
however much trouble yon may take with them. Of courst 
it will be the same with all stale or bad meat and vegetables. 
An egg is animal food ; if you know how to cook it well, yon 
Svil I know that the same heat will cook any kind of animal 
fooa. Here is a hard-boiled egg; it has been boiled in 
boiling water for ten minutes. Let us compare it with the 
poached and soft-boiled egg. The albumen, or white part, in 
both of them is creamy, and the yolks are soft. Though I 
did put these tw^o eggs into boiling water they never boiled, 
because the eggs, being cold, cooled, the boiling water, the 
temperature of which went down quickly from 212° to 180° 
Tlio first time I cooked an egg in this way T put the egg into 



EGGS BOILED AND POACHED. 129 

water at 180° instead of patting it into boiling water. The 
consequence was that the egg was not done enough, for the 
cold egg had made the water much colder than 180^. Hard- 
boiled eggs are excellent things to take on a long journe^, 
when you cannot get any animal food, as they take a long 
time to digest, and so prevent your feeling hungry. Sand- 
vs'iches made of bread and butter, with hard-boiled eggs 
chopped up finely and put between the bread, are excellent. 
The yolk of an egg contains a great deal of carbonaceous food. 
In Russia they take the oil out of the yolks of eggs and sell it 
as a medicine. There are two drachms of oil in each yolk of a 
hen's egg. 

I will now show you a very wonderful box called a 
Norwegian self-acting cooking apparatus. If you look into it 
you will see that it is lined with a kind of cloth called felt. 
Felt is a material made of hair and wool that allows scarcely 
any heat to pass through it. There is a saucepan in the centre. 
This saucepan has four divisions. Come and touch the pan 
and you will find that it is very hot. You must look and see 
what there is in these four places. The first contains a 
rolled jam pudding ; the second a rice pudding ; the third 
an egg. In the fourth there is a stew. This stew contains 
a piece of beef beautifully done, also a suet dumpling, 
carrots, turnips, celery, onions, and potato. Not only is the 
etew well cooked, but it tastes excellent. There has been no 
steam to carry off the flavouring matter. The pans are quite 
full, so that there has been no waste. Our cook had very little 
trouble. She merely prepared these three dishes and put the 
pan into the oven until the puddings and stew began to boil, 
then she instantly put the pan into the box, which was aired 
by the fire, placed this felt cover over the lid, shut it up, 
and put it in a place free from draught for seven hours. 
The working people in Norway use them constantly. T wish 
I could tell colliers, mill hands, working men and women, 
about this wonderful box. The Prince of Wales has taken 
one out to India. I am glad that this apparatus proves I am 
right in saying that foods are injured and wasted by being 
boiled at '212° for more than a few minutes after they have 
been placed in the saucepan. Full directions will be found in 

E 



130 COOKING. 

the Appendix (p. 195). The Norwegian Cooking Apparatii3 
can be bought in all sizes from 12s, to 31., at Silver's, 66 
Cornhill, London. The box yon have seen to-day is a 
travelling ore, marked B, As I wished to show yon several 
dishes at one time, I had the sancepan fitted np with fonr 
small pans, which have answered very nicely. When not nsed 
the box and saucepans had better be left open. This rule 
ought to be carried out witli every cooking utensil. 

Things provided for the Lecture. 

A bottle ■with a cork in it. Two small saucepans. 

A picture of the slice of a potato. ' An old and a new potato. 

Three eggs, ' A brush to clean potatoes with 

A Bunsen burner. [ A slice of a potato cut like the 

A thermometer, ; picture. 

Questions fur the Eighteenth Lecture. 

1. Why do we cook our food ? 

2. How would you boil a potato, or any fresh vegetable ? 

.3, Why is a roasted potato more easily digested than a potato 
cooked in any other way ? (It is digested in one hour less time.) 

4, Why must a cover always be put on a saucepan all the time the 

food is being cooked, unless the pan is a copperone not tinned inside ? 

5. IIow would you cook a fresh soft-boiled egg, or a poached one, if 

you had neither a clock nor a thermometer-i-in fact, had to do it 
by guess ? 



LECTURE XIX 

COOKING {co7ttinued). 
We intend, if there is time to-day, to cook the following things : 
— A mutton chop, so that all the juices shall be kept in, and 
the meat be tender and tempting for a delicate stomach ; some 
rice and macaroni, so that it can be eaten with any kind of 
meat, or with milk and sugar, or with treacle alone. 

Before the cooking begins I must ask you to examine 
the fireplace we have brought to cook with. Mr. Wilson, the 
tinner in Woodhouso Lane, has taken great pains to make it 
exactly like the fireplace that every English working-man has 
in his own home. It has not got an oven, only a place where 
an oven ought to be, as it was necessary to make the whole thing 
as small and light as possible, I am obliged to burn charcoal. 



A MUTTON CHOP. 131 

as coal would make a great dsal of smoke, and we have no 
chimney to carry it away. We will now pnt a plate to warm 
before the fire, so that it may be ready for the chop when it is 
cooked. We shall only nse the same sancepans and cooking 
utensils that you are accustomed to see used. 

Here is the gridiron ; you see it is very clean. If it were 
not very clean, the flavour of the mutton chop would be quite 
spoilt. As the fire has now burnt up bright and clear, we will 
put the gridiron over it for a few minutes to get the bars hot, 
for then the chop will not stick to the bars ; some people rub 
grease on the bars, but that is not a good way. The chop 
mast not be put on with a fork, as the fork would make holes 
in the meat and let out the juices. By means of a spoon and 
a knife it is easily put on. As we want to keep all the juices 
in, we will put the gridiron very near the hot coals, and then 
the red heat will directly harden the albumen that is on the 
outside of the chop, and so fasten in all the juices. 

A fine chop will take twelve minutes to cook thoroughly ; 
a very thin one, a minute or two less. Remember, it must be 
turned six times — that is, once in every two minutes. No per- 
son ought to cook a chop without a clock or a watch to look 
at, as great care is required to cook it well. Directly the chop 
is ready, it must be put upon a nice hot plate ; if the plate is 
cold, the chop will be spoilt, however well it has been cooked. 
The next thing is to eat it directly ; a chop should be carried 
from the fire to the dinner table. Do not put butter or any- 
thing on the chop. It is best eaten with a little salt and a 
good potato A person with a very delicate digestion could 
eat a chop cooked in this way when he could eat nothing else. 
Now I will cut this chop open, to show you how nicely it is 
ione. The flesh is not at all red, only full of juice. A beef 
jteak ought to be cooked in exactly the same way. 

I will now show you how to roast a joint of meat. You 
4iust have the same clear, bright, red fire to roast by which 
rou require to cook a mutton chop with. We will suppose 
that this is a loin of mutton ; it is really only two chops cut 
from a loin of mutton. As we want to keep all the juices in 
this joint, we must let it hang as close to the fire as possible 
for ten minutes. Then the great heat that comes from a clear 



1 32 COOKING. 

hot fire will in that time harden all the outside of the meat, 
and so fasten up the juices. When this is done, we must move 
the meat to a great distance, and let it cook very gently. The 
fire must never be allowed to burn low ; it must continue 
clear and hot until the meat is done. The meat must also be 
constantly basted ; that is, the melted fat that falls into the 
dripping-pan must constantly be poured over it with a spoon, 
because the fat keeps in the juices and prevents the meat from 
burning and being cooked too quickly. Take care to keep the 
dripping-pan a good distance from the fire, so that no pieces 
of coal can fall into the dripping and make it dirty. No fat 
ought to be more highly prized than dripping, for it is almost 
the most nutritious fat that can be eaten. Dripping is much 
nicer than lard for frying fish, &c. ; it also makes excellent 
short crust for fruit pies. If any coal should fall into the drip- 
ping-pan, the dripping, when cold, must be put into boiling 
water. When it is melted, the bits of cinder and dast will 
fall to the bottom, and the dripping will rise to the top in a 
large white cake. It is not at all an easy thing to roast a joint 
of meat propei iy, for it takes one person's time nearly to look 
after it and to keep the fire bright. 

A mother who has a large family and a baby to look after 
cannot be expected to roast meat very often. A friend of mine 
told mo that her mother, who was a working- woman, never 
could give them roast meat when they were children, unless it 
was on a feast day, when one of her elder children was at 
home (as it was a holiday), and could attend to the fire 
and baste the meat. The iDld-fashioned way of roasting meat 
was to place it at some distance from a black new-made fire ; 
it was considered the best plan to let the meat and the fire 
grow warm together ! As we have very little time left, I must 
take away the meat. I think you will have learnt from what 
you have seen how to roast a joint of meat before the fire. 

We will now cook some rice and macaroni so that they may 
be eaten with any kind of meat, like a vegetable, or with milk 
and sugar, or with treacle alone. The rice has been well 
washed two or three times in cold water, but w^as not allowed 
to stand in it. Macaroni must never be washed. We shall 
cook them both exactly as we cooked a potato. As the water 



RICE AND MACARONI. 133 

is now boiling in this saucepan, we will put the rice into it. 
As the saucepan is very small, we must put very little rice in, 
or the rice will not have enough room to swell out. There is 
a great deal of starch in rice and all vegetables, you know. 
Each starch grain swells very much.^ Here is a picture of one 
before it is boiled, and here is the same grain when it has been 
cooked.^ You see it has grown three times as big. Vege- 
tables are very often spoilt by being put into too small a sauce- 
pan with too small a quantity of water. We will now put on 
the macaroni. Like rice, it also will require a very great deal 
of room. These three little pipes which I am going to put in 
will become very much larger when they are cooked. As the 
rice and macaroni have now boiled for a few minutes, we will 
put a saucepan on each hob and let them cook gradually. 
While they are cooking I will tell you a little about rice and 
macaroni, and the countries they come from. In China and 
India the natives live chiefly on rice. The Hindoos are now 
suffering from a famine because the rice crops failed last year. 
Though rice is a very good food, it is a dreadful thing that the 
Hindoos will eat hardly anything else — first, because their 
bodies and minds would be stronger if they ate different kinds 
of food, and another reason is that it is a fearful thing for any 
people to depend on one food, for when that food fails there 
must be a famine. People died by thousands and thousands 
in India during a famine of this kind some years ago, and as 
many more had fevers and all kinds of complaints owing to 
their not having had half enough to eat. 

In Ireland, you know, there was a famine several years ago, 
too, because the Irish people lived mainly on one thing — pota- 
toes. I fear they still eat very little else in many parts of 
Ireland. 

The working people in the south of Italy live almost 
entirely on macaroni. Macaroni is a most nutritious food, 
because it is made chiefly of vegetable albumen — that is, gluten, 
that substance whjch makes our flesh, nerves, and muscles, 
and is called nitrogenous food, I am sure your mothers would 

' I showed a drawing of two starch grains, p. 89. 
2 Page 89. 



134. COOKING. 

often give you both rice and macaroni if they knew how easily 
these foods are cooked. Rice, yon know, is very cheap. The 
rice we are cooking to-day only costs threepence a pound ; 
two ounces would make a good- sized pudding. Two ounces 
of macaroni would also make a large dish ; therefore it is a 
very cheap food, although it costs eightpence a pound, because 
it is very nutritious and swells out so much when cooked. 
The straight sticks are better than the twisted. The sticks 
must be broken into small pieces about four inches long, or to 
suit the saucepan. The macaroni you see in this dish ' was 
first boiled in water, like a potato or any green vegetable ; it 
was then placed in the dish ; a little pepper and salt were 
added, some cheese was grated over the top, and it was put 
into a hot oven until it was nicely browned. Here is a rice 
pudding that is made of skimmed milk, with a little suet 
chopped up very fine in it. You see how good it looks, quite 
rich. The goodness of all puddings, particularly those made 
of rice or tapioca, depends on their being cooked very slowly 
and on their having plenty of room to swell out. Dripping 
does as well as suet in case the milk is poor. 

Semolina costs eightpence a pound. It is made chiefly of 
gluten, and is therefore a most nourishing food. Semolina is 
eaten in great quantities by the Italians ; they call it polenta. 
In Algeria it is the national dish called couscousou. Fermenty 
is a dish eaten in Yorkshire at Christmas time. It is made of 
wheat and water, which are cooked in the oven until the wheat 
is tender, and then currants and milk are added. This is a 
most nourishing food, and not indigestible if the wheat is 
crushed. The Americans call it mush. The Syrians live 
almost entirely upon- it. It is their daily national food. 

Revalenta Arabica is only ground lentils. Lentils are 
stronger food than grain ; they are much given to cattle, 
but they are also very good when put into soup. There is a 
food called corn-flour which, I am sorry to say, is given in great 
quantities to infants. Corn-flour, like arrowroot, is almost 
entirely made of starch, which you know produces fat in the 
body. The babies fed on corn-flour grow fat, and because they 
grow fat the nurse or mother concludes that the child is doing 

• I showed a small dish of cooked macaroni. 



VEQETABLK I'REPARATIONS. 135 

splendidly, when all the time the poor little thing is being 
* pined ' to death, becanse it has no food to feed its muscles, 
nerves, and bones. 

Things provided for the Lecture. 



A picture of a starch grain, cooked 

and uncooked. 
A gridiron. 
Two saucepans. 
One knife. 
, metal spoon. 
,, ounce of rice to boil. 
,, „ „ show how much 

it had swelled when boiled. 



One ounce of macaroni to boil. 

„ „ macaroni cold. 

One chop to grill. 
Two chops to represent a joint. 
A dinner plate. 
A small rice pudding. 
A small dish of macaroni prepared 
with cheese grated over the top. 
A small model kitchen range. 



Questions for the Nineteenth Lecture. 

1. How would you cook a mutton chop or a beef steak, so that all the 

juices should be kept in, and the meat be tender and tempting 
for a delicate stomach ? 

2. How ought a joint of meat to be roasted before a fire ? 

3. Why will all vegetable food, such as rice, flour, potatoes, and all 

green vegetables, be made sad or hea^vy if they do not have plenty 
of room to swell out in the saucepan while they are being 
cooked ? 

4. How would you cook rice so that it could be eaten with any kind 

of meat, or with milk and sugar, or with treacle alone ? 
6. How would you cook macaroni so that you could eat it with any 
kind of meat, cheese, or with milk and sugar, or with treacle ? 



LECTURE XX. 

COOKING {continued). 

The French are not only exceHent cooks, but they are most 
economical with their food. They waste nothing. For 
instance, if they boil any kind of food, no matter whether it is 
fish, flesh, fowl, or vegetable, they always take care of the 
water in which these foods have been cooked, and make soup 
of it, except that water in which potatoes have been boiled 
with their skins on. The French people evidently know what 
you know now — that every kind of food contains a great many 
good things, and that some of those good things must come 



136 COOKING. 

out into the water, however carefnlly the food may have beei 
cooked. 

Sonps made from the liquid in which fish has been boiler 
arc very good, unless the fish has been salted. In the sam^ 
way, you cannot make soup of the water in which salt mea^ 
has been cooked. For this reason salt meat is an extravagant 
food, because the water in which it is cooked is useless 
A.nother reason why salt meat is extravagant is, that whe*^ 
salt is put on any meat the salt draws out its juices. Thw 
brine that comes from salted meat is the part that containf 
most of the juices, and that part is thrown away. This if* 
done in England even with the water in which fresh meat har 
been boiled. It is only a very few years ago that several ol 
our soldiers who lived in some London barracks wei-e nearlj 
starved to death. They became very thin and weak. It wars 
considered very strange, as the best fresh meat was bought 
for them, and they had some of it every day. At last an en- 
quiry' was made. It was then found that they never had 
anything but boiled meat, which was boiled to a rag, and the 
cook always threw away the liquid in which it was boiled. 
This story proves very clearly that even English cooks do not 
understand anything about the different properties of foods 
and the principles of heat by which they should be cooked. 
No person ought to call himself a cook who does not know 
these things. 

I will now tell you how to make clear stock for soup from 
butcher's meat. Here is some meat stock in this glass jar. 
You see it is quite clear. The reasons why this stock is so 
clear are, first, because the meat and the bones with which it 
was made were put into a perfecthj clean saucepan, with cold 
water, of course, as the juices had to be brought out of the 
meat. Secondly, because the meat was never allowed to boil, 
only to simmer. If soup boils the albumen in the meat 
becomes hardened and rises in little bits to the top and makes 
what is called ' scum.' Even if the soup does not boil a scum 
will rise if the saucepan is not spotlessly clean, for any old 
bits of food that were sticking to the sides and bottom of the 
pan will come off and rise to the top ; then the soup will tast« 
disagreeable and it will be thick. English professed cooks will 



aoup. 137 

ieh fsjd ihat soup cannot be clear unless it boils for a quarter of 
an bonv, and that during this quarter of an hour you should 
throw in a little cold water to make the ' scum' rise, and keep 
taking it off with a spoon. All the time the scum is being 
removed the cover is kept off, and the steam is carrying off 
the flavouring matter, injuring the juices, hardening the 
albumen, and wasting the soup. The stock in this bottle was 
allowed to boil, and the scum was removed ; but it is not 
clearer than the stock in this other bottle, which never boiled 
and had no scum removed. There is, you see, a great deal 
more of the soup that only simmered than of the boiled soup, 
to say nothing of its being more nourishing. 

The most nourishing beef-tea for invalids is of ten prepared 
by putting the beef into a jar which is placed in a pan of 
boiling water. Custards, milk, and other foods are often pre- 
pared in the same way. No food can be brought up to boiling 
point in a pan which is merely surrounded by boiling water. 
This is a scientific fact that all ought to know. Captain War- 
ren's famous cooking pot is constructed on this principle — the 
steam that is made by the boiling water in the outer pan 
passes into the lid, which is double, or into a steamer which, if 
wanted for vegetables or puddings, can be put over the cooking 
pan. It is quite impossible that any steam can enter the 
middle pan : here the food is cooked by hot air so that it loses 
none of its flavouring matter, and scarcely any of its weight. 
When soup is wanted, water, of course, is used. We have 
cooked several kinds of food with the greatest success in 
Captain Warren's ' Everybody's Cooking Pot.' A few days since 
an article appeared in the Times describing this apparatus, from 
which I give the following extract : — ' The heat to which the 
food is subjected cannot be greater than 210 deg. Fahrenheit ; 
and the closure of the vessel, and the consequent gentle stew- 
ing of the meat or fish in its own juices, is attended by a 
very remarkable prevention of waste and preservation of 
flavour. It is estimated that the loss of meat by ordinary 
methods of cooking is about one-third by roasting, or 5^ 
oz. in the pound, about 4^ oz. in the pound by boiling, and 
about 3^ oz. by baking ; while the loss by Captain Warren's 
process is altogether insignificant. Thus, Captain Harrison, 



138 COOKING. 

R.N., records an experiment tried under his supervision on 
board the Shannon mail-boat, in which a leg of mutton 
weighing 12 lb. was cooked in the ship's oven, and when con- 
sidered well done was found to weigh 8 lb. On the following 
day the other leg of the same sheep was cooked in one of 
Warren's pots, was placed in the ship's oven for a few 
minutes to be browned, and when taken out was found to 
weigh 11:^ lb.' 

My cook will now make a nourishing cheap soup that shall 
contain both animal and vegetable food without using any 
butcher's meat. Before she begins to make the soup, pray 
notice how clean the saucepan is. She will put in a pint of 
cold water. When it boils, the following vegetables will be 
added. All green vegetables should be put into boiling water, 
though they are not to be boiled, or else they will lose their 
colour. A little sugar also keeps them green. Soyer, the 
celebrated cook, never made a soup without putting in some 
sugar, as it is very nutritious. I will now tell you what the 
quantity of vegetables, &c,, ought to be for this soup: two 
pints of water, two ounces of green peas (carrots or any vege- 
table will do), one onion, one lettuce. All the vegetables must 
be cut up very fine ; if carrots are used, fchey should be scraped 
(carrot soup is the nicest of all vegetable soups). To this 
must be added two cold potatoes, or uncooked ones, one table- 
spoonful of flour or oatmeal mixed up with two ounces of 
dripping, half a teaspoonful of sugar, some salt and pepper, and 
half-a-pint of milk — the milk to be added when the vegetables 
are done. Milk is not necessary for the soup, only it makes 
it more nourishing. These must all simmer gently for nearly 
an hour, and then the soup will be quite ready to be eaten. 
Split or dried peas require a much longer time — about two 
hours — and this is the most nourishing soup of all. 

Now we will just see how it is that this soup is made of 
animal and vegetable food, although it contains no butcher's 
meat. Well, the dripping is animal food, and so is the milk. 
What a good nourishing meal this would make if some bread 
were eaten with it on a cold winter's day. It is also so easily 
prepared. A mother might make it in the morning early, so 
that her husband or children could take it with them to the 



SOUP WITHOUT MEAT STOCK. 139 

mill, where they could warm it up, or she could get it ready 
after breakfast and put it into a slow oven, so that il she was 
obligea to go out in the morning it would be ready for din- 
ner when she returned. This is what the French women 
always do. 

At the end of the lecture you shall taste some soup which 
was made this morning at home. It is made exactly like 
the one we have just prepared for cooking. An immense 
nnmber of soups can be made without butcher's meat. 

Remember the stomach must have a solid, or else the 
organs which digest solid food will get out of order, and the 
person will grow weak. Doctors say that many lives have 
been lost because nurses have given sick people nothing but 
beef-tea after they have become much reduced by a severe 
illness. The different essences of meat, like beef-tea, do not 
feed and strengthen, but only stop the waste of the nerves 
and muscles. 

The following extract from Dr. Edward Smith's remarks 
made at a meeting of the British Association in 1872, will 
prove the truth of what I have just said: — 'Then we shall 
no longer have sick and dying men, women, and children fed 
with Liebig's extracts of meat under the delusion that it is 
nutriment in the ordinary sense. Liebig's extract is meat 
flavour, a nervous stimulant, and has good qualities, but it is 
not food.' 

Another extract from a publication called ' Land and 
Water ' bears on this subject : — ' How many a recovering 
patient has sunk under the stimulating beef-tea which suited 
his period of prostration, but which starved his returning 
strength. How many a weakening frame has been lost by 
the attractive but worthless jellies which pious and loving 
hands had carefully prepared.' The same authority says that 
butter and eggs should be added as soon as possible to the 
beef-tea, or to the food in some way. These two foods, 
butter and eggs, contain body-warmers, and will therefore 
make fat. Fat burns away in the body very quickly 
when anyone has a fever. It is an important fact that no 
one can live unless his body contains a certain quantity of 
fat. 



140 COOKING. 

Cold meat, you know from what I have told you in one 
of my lectures, is not so nourishing as hot meat ; it ifl there- 
fore v^ery necessary that we should learn how to make a good 
hot dish with cold meat. Whether we hash or mmc-e cold 
meat, wo must take gi'eat care and make a good jrravy to 
warm it up in, and cook the meat very little the second time. 
The gravy must also have a pleasant taste and a good flavour, 
because the meat will have lost a great deal of its flavouring 
matter, called osmazome, while it was being cooked the day 
before. This is why there is scarcely any flavour in cold 
meat. You know that hot meat and cold meat taste quite 
differently. It is a fact that a nice taste or a good smell 
makes our mouths water — that is, causes the saliva to flow,' 
When the saliva flows into the mouth, the gastric juice also 
comes into the stomach. As the saliva and the gastric juice help 
our food to digest, it is very important that what we eat should 
taste, smell, and look good. A dirty tablecloth, dirty knives 
and forks, dirty plates, take away the appetite of even strong 
people ; while poor invalids and delicate persons are often 
prevented from eating the food they so much need, and upon 
which their very lives may depend, because it does not look or 
smell tempting, and is brought to them in a dirty and untidy 
manner. 

The following is a receipt for making gravy for a hash or 
a mince without meat stock : — 

Put a teaspoonful of flour, a little dripping, and an onion 
into a saucepan ; hold the saucepan over the fire until the 
onion is nicely browned ; do not let the onion burn, or the 
flavour of the gravy will be quite spoilt ; add half-a-pint oi 
boiling water, pepper, salt, and a little nutmeg ; instead of 
nutmeg any sauce can be used that is liked, such as ketchup 
Let these things simmer a short time ; then put in the cola 
meat, cut into small slices. Put on the cover, and let the 
hash simmer gently on the hob for ten or fifteen minutes, 
until the meat is quite hot. 

When we stew we ought to use fresh uncooked meat ; a 
Btew is therefore very different from a hash. We stew meat 
in order to make the flesh or tissues tender. We also want 
to keep in all the juices ; we must therefore take care and 



A STEW. 141 

see that the water or gravy ^vhich the meat is put into is 
boiiiiig. The meat must then he stewed for a long time in a 
moderately hot oven. Tough meat should always be stewed. 
The following is the most simple receipt I know for stewing 
a beef steak or any meat in a way that would suit an invalid 
with a delicate stomach : — 

Take off all the fat and skin from a rump steak nearly an 
inch thick ; just dip it into boiling water, sprinkle a little 
pepper, and then flour it on both sides rather thickly. Wash 
out the stew-pot with boiling water : put in the meat with 
about a tablespoonful of water, and let it stew gently until it is 
tender. The salt brings out the juice; therefore put it in at 
the last. A thick slice of mutton is very good stewed in this 
way. 

As there is an immense quantity of tea drunk m England 
by both rich and poor, I am going to tell you the good and 
the harm it does to our health. Here is a list of the sub- 
stances there are in tea. 

In one pound of tea are to be found the following sub- 
stances : — 

OZ. GRAINS. 

Water 350 

Theine :10 

Caseine ....... 2 176 

Aromatic Oil 52 

Gum 2 385 

Sugir 211 

Fat 280 

Tannic Acid 4 87 

Woody Fibre o 87 

Miueriil Matter 350 

Theine is the nutritious substance. The volatile oil gives 
the flavonr of tea. The latter, like all flavouring matter, is a 
most delicate substance, and would all fly away if the tea 
were boiled. This is the reason why we only pour boiling 
water on tea when we make it. Theine has a great efiect 
upon the nerves ; for this reason, when tea is taken very 
strong, it often keeps people awake the whole night. 

Tannic acid, which you see the tea coutaiiis, is the same stulf 
which tanners use to tan leather. This acid hardens albumen 



14)2 COOKING. 

in the stomach ; that is why it is not a good thing to take 
meat with tea. Theine stops the gastric juice from flowing 
freely into the stomach. Cold bread and butter are the most 
wholesome foods to take with tea. 

I will now try and describe the effect a cup of tea has 
upon our bodies. We will suppose that a poor woman feels 
faint from want of food. She has nothing in her stomach, 
and takes a cup of tea. It is cold weather. For a short time 
the tea warms her, and she feels happier and more cheerful, 
for the theine in the tea has supported her nerves. It always 
does this if taken in moderation and not too strong. After a 
little time, the woman begins to feel colder and weaker than 
she was before she took the tea. There is scarcely any nou- 
rishment in tea except that which is got from the sugar and 
milk. Tea has a yevj powerful effect on the skin ; it opens 
the pores and makes us perspire. The poor woman will there- 
fore be thinner and weaker after her cup of tea, because the 
perspiration will have carried off some of the wasted or used- 
up substances of her body, and she had none to spare. 

It has now become the fashion for ladies to take a cup of 
strong tea at four o'clock, after a good meat lunch, and before 
they take a good dinner at seven o'clock. Their cup of tea 
will no doubt do them good, because they will be all the 
better for the waste that the cup of tea will cause. I am very 
anxious to give this information about tea, because I am quite 
sure the mothers and daughters of the working- classes in 
England injure themselves very much by taking too much 
tea. Many wives and mothers used to come and talk to me 
at the end of the lectures I gave last winter, and I was very 
sorry to find from what they told me how much they suffered 
from bad health. Face-ache, tic, rheumatism, and bronchitis 
were very common complaints. I found that nearly all of 
them were in the habit of taking a great deal of tea. Mill- 
girls, who work in close rooms, become unhealthy, and then 
they easily take cold. Tea makes them more tender, because it 
opens the pores of their skins and makes them perspire, so 
that when they come out of the close warm rooms on a cold 
day, or at night, they easily take cold. 

No persons except doctors work harder than the indue- 



TKA AND COFFEK. 143 

trious wives of working-men, and they are your mothers. 
They not only work all day, bat they arc often obliged to 
work all night if they have a sick child. No women require 
more nourishing food. They ought to take very little tea, 
unless they can have the best food. 

We will now learn all wc can about coITco. This list 
w»n tell us what it contains. 

(n a pound of coffee there will be : — 

OZ. OIJAIXS. 

Water 1 407 

Sugar 1 17 

Fat 1 402 

Caseino 2 ^o 

Caifeine, or theine 122 

Aromatic Oil 1| 

Caffeic Acid (with Potash) .... 280 

Gum 1 192 

Woody Fibre 5 2G2 

Saline Matter 1 31 

You see there is no tannic acid in coffee ; but there is a 
substance called caffeine, which is the same in nature with 
theine, having the same chemical composition. It also affects 
the nerves, and keeps people awake if they take it too strong, 
bnt will soothe and cheer them if they only take a moderate 
quantity. The peculiar taste of coffee is also due to a volatile 
oil. Like all flavouring matter, it is very delicate, and is 
spoilt by boiling. No one ever thinks of boiling coffee ; it 
ought to be made exactly as tea is made, by pouring boiling 
water upon it. Coffee can be kept for a long time hot on a 
hob, where the heat will be about 180 degrees, and will not bo 
spoilt. Cold coffee is very disagreeable. Coffee does not 
open the pores of the skin as tea does ; on the contrary, it is 
said to shut them up, and therefore it does not waste tho 
body, it only makes the blood hot. 

In France and Germany very little tea is taken. Every 
poor person takes coffee for breakfast and tea. Tiiey make 
it a very nourishing drink, because they only half (ill the cup 
with coffee ; the other half is hot new milk or skinmied milk, 
and then they add a great deal of sugar. Coffee is said to 
prevent.people from having gout and rheumatism. I know 



144 COOKING. 

fchat when I nursed a friend who had a dreadful attack of 
gout, his pain was always relieyed,when I gave him a hot cup 
of coffee and hot milk in the middle of the night. Remember 
the milk should always be made very hot that is taken with 
coffee. Milk should never be boiled, because the albumen gets 
hardened and rises to the top, and makes the skin you have 
often seen on the top of a cup of milk. 

Now we are going to learn about cocoa and chocolate. 
Perhaps you do not know they are both made from exactly 
the same kernel of the tree called Tlieohroma cacao^ which 
grows in America and the West Indies. Chocolate and cocoa 
are prepared in a great many ways. Cocoa or chocolate is very 
good for people who can eat fat Ibod, such as children and 
young people, but it does not suit all bilious people. 

One pound of cocoa or chocolate contains : — 

OZ. GRAINS. 

Water 3oO 

•Albumen or Gluten 3 85 

Theobromine 1 140 

Cocoa Butter 8 

Gum 426 

Starch . . , 1 53 

Woody Fibre 280 

Colouring Matter 140 

Mineral Matter 280 

You see that there is a great deal of fat in it. Cocoa ought 
to be cooked gently and allowed to simmer for half-an-hour 
or more, and have a great deal of milk, which should simmer 
with it. It is a great pity mill-girls do not take it in-stead of 
tea. Cocoa- nibs ought to simmer for two or three hours ; 
they cannot be done well in less time. 

Things provided for the Lecture. 

A glass bottle of soup made of vegetables, like the soup we made at the 

lesson for the children to tjiste. 
Two pints of water, two oz. green peas, a cold potato, one tabU spoonful of 

flour, two oz. of dripping, half a teaspoonful of sugar, pe^'per, salt. 
One gill of milk. 



COCOA. 145 



Questio7is for the Tiventieth Lecture. 

1. How could, you make a great many most nourishing soups, which 

Bhould contain both animal and vegetable food, thcai^h ycfu had 
no butcher's meat to put into them ? 

2. Why would a sick person be pined to death in a very short time if 

the nurse givf no other lood but the strongest beef-tea? 

3. If you had sjme cold meat, how would you hash it? 

4. Why is tea a very bad thing for old or young people who cannot get 

plenty of good fojd? 

5. Why is coffee, as the French and Germans tak ; it, more nourishing 

than tea ? 



LECTURE XXI. 

COOKING (concluded). 



I HAVE told you that tlie food we eat must be of different 
kinds — animal, vegetable, and mineral. We will read what 
is written on this sheet and see what it tells ns about animals 
and plants. 

A germ is the beginning of life in all plants and animals. 

Plants have organs ; animals have organs. 

They are both made of organic matter. 

Both germs contain exactly the same substances — oxygen, 
hydrogen, nitrogen, and carbon. 

You all by this time understand that animals have organs, 
but I do not think you all know that plants have organs. An 
organ is an instrument or a place where something is done. 
I will now show you that plants have organs. I hold in my 
hand a young potato-plant ; here are the potatoes, the leaves, 
the stems, and the roots. It has just been taken out of the 
earth. You see there is some earth sticking to these little 
roots. These roots, which look like fine little white threads, 
go down into the earth and suck out of it the water and 
mineral substances upon which the plant lives. These 
little roots are little pipes, and carry the water and 
minerals up into the stems and then into the leaves, and to 
eveiy part of the plant to feed it, just as our blood is carried 
to pvery part of the body by the arteries. 

L 



liO 



COOKING. 



There are thousands of little holes, or pores, in every leaf, 
like the pores in oar skin. If you had a raicroscope, yoa 
could see them : remember they are generally found on tua 

Fi,^ 34. Fig. 35. 




Yeast Plant.' Amoeba — tha most simpb form o? animal Ufa. 

nnder side of the leaf. Plants are said to breathe ihrongh 
these holes. They take in one kind of gas and send oufc 
mother, as we do through our mouths. You will be surprised 
i:o hear that they take in carbonic acid gas, and they send 
3ut into the air oxygen gas. If plants did not make use of 
carbonic acid gas, we and all dumb animals should soon be 
poisoned, because the air we breathe would become quite 
full of it. The Almighty allows nothing to be wasted ; Ho 
has good use for everything He has made. 

You see that plants have organs, for I have just named 
three — the roots, stems, and the pores that cover principally the 
under part of the leaf. I should like to tell you a great deal 
about plants, as they are so wonderfully and beautifully made. 
I should like you all to have window-gardens, as cliildren 
have in London, and receive prizes for the boxes of flowers 
that have been most carefully nursed. They require great 
care and soon die if they ai^e not watered. When any part of 
a plant dies, it turns to corruption, just as the dead part of an 
animal would ; and while it is dying, it gives off very poisonous 
gases. At last it returns into oxygen, hydrogen, nitrogen, and 
carbon; these are the four substances that both animal and 
vegetable germs are made of. 

' I- must be remombered th.it these figures iffpresent tlio ^.bjects very 
much magnitied. 



ORGANIC MATTER. 147 

I hope you will never eat any fruit like these gooseberries, 
which are decaying, or, as yoa would say, going bad. The 
poisonous gases that are in these dying gooseberries closely 
resemble those made in an animal when in is dying or 
turning into corruption. These gases and the poisonous germs 
that live in corruption will give you diarrhoea or cholera. If 
people understood that it is as dangerous to breathe the air 
that comes from a decaying plant as it is to breathe the air 
that comes from a dead animal, they would not put dead vege- 
tables, such as potato-peelings, old cabbages, &c., into a pail 
and let them stand in the kitchen under the sink, or anywhere 
in the house Middens, or refuse heaps, are dreadful places, 
for on to them fish-bones, vegetables, and all kinds of dead 
organic matter are thrown. A delicate person might catch a 
fever by even passing near such a place. The sa?Qe might 
happen in passing a cesspool or a river in which there is or- 
ganic matter. It is disgraceful to see some parts of our river 
and canal in Leeds. If you venture to stand a rao.nent, and 
look at them, you will see gases bubbling up that '^ome from 
dying organic matter that is slowh floating down, making the 
air unbearable. Even in lovely country places, where the air 
ouglit to be so fresh and sweet, fevers break cut, because 
people have middens, pig-styes, and dung-heaps close to their 
cottages. Farm-hottses are often unhealthy because the farm- 
yard, stables, and cow-houses are kept dirty. The manure 
and other dead organic matter becomes liquid, and runs all 
about, and often finds its way into the well which supplies 
the house wjth water. Streets that are badly paved or are 
not paved at all have deep holes in them: these holes become 
filled with dead organic matter made liquid by rain. Such 
streets are a great reflection on any town council, as they cause 
fevers by filling the houses near them with poisonous gases. 
Courts and alleys are very unhealthy places, and ought not to 
be allowed, because fresh air cannot pass through them 
and kill the poisonous germs that always collect wherever 
dirt exists. 

I must now mention a very dirty and disagreeable habit 
that children have in schools of washing their slates with their 
own saliva. Spittle, or saliva, you know contains organic 

L 2 



148 COOKING. 

matter as it comes from our bodies. ^lauy children have 
caught diseases by this practice. The slate you used to-day, 
and cleaned in this dirty manner, will be used by some one 
else to-morrow, and if you were recovering from scarlet fever, 
the child who used your slate would catch the same fever. 
Sore eyes, as well as fevers, have been spread throughout a 
whole school by this dirty habit. I hope soon to see in all our 
Board schools that sponges and water are fastened to every 
desk, and that the children will be obliged to use them. 

Sweat is dead organic matter. People ought never to 
sleep in clothes they wear by day. Night-clothes should 
aUvays have fresh air during the day. At our house we always 
sleep with our windows open about an inch or two at the top. 
Directly we get up, we have the bed-clothes turned down and 
the windows opened wide. Then the oxygen comes in and 
gets into the bed-clothes and purifies them. 

Do you not know how much sweeter clean clothes smell 
that have been put out of doors to dry than those that have 
been dried indoors? I am surprised to see in many houses 
that the beds are made directly we leave the bedroom. They 
ought never to be made until the beds and the clothes have 
been well aired. Feather beds are dirty things ; they ought to 
be frequently exposed to fresh air, bec;inse a grn^at deal of 
dead organic matter is often left on the feathers when they 
are put into the bed-ticking. Remember that the organic 
matter that is in dirty beds, bed-clothes, or wearing-apparel 
returns into the blood through the pores of the skin as well as 
through the lungs when we breathe. Carbonic acid gas, you 
know, kills us by sending us into a sleep from which we never 
wake, as it did the two sailors belonging to the French 
schooner 'Jeanne Roberts' about a month ago. These men, 
finding the night very cold, determined to keep themselves 
warm by shutting up the chimney and every hole, so that no 
fresh air could enter. In the morning th{?y were found dead ; 
they had been killed by breathing the carbonic acid gas that 
had come out of their mouths. 

The poison from decaying organic matter destroys life and 
health much more slowly than carbonic acid gas, and in a 
much more dreadful way, because it injures the brain. People 



ORGANIC MATTER. 149 

become miserable, and sometimes mad. They lose their appe- 
tites and long for drink, which only makes them worse. 
Courts of justice like those in our townhall, where the assizes 
are held, are filled with crowds of human beings, many of 
whom have on dirty clothes. Architects, gentlemen who build 
these courts of law and other grand buildings, do not yet 
understand how to ventilate such places. Judges and stipen- 
diary magistrates often suffer very much from bad health 
because they are obliged to sit day after day and month after 
month breathing air poisoned by organic matter. About a 
year ago a celebrated judge, it is supposed, lost his life from 
this cause. His brain became diseased ; he lost his senses, 
and killed himself. If gentlemen who only spend a part of 
their days in grand buildings are killed by bad air, what is to 
become of poor men, women, and children who have to live night 
and day in air much worse than that which is to be found in 
a court of justice ? One sleeping-room sometimes holds three 
or four families. A respectable cobbler or tailor in London will 
carry on his trade in the only room which he and his family — 
perhaps seven children — have to live in by day as well as by 
night. Just fancy for a moment how dreadful the air in that 
room must become by the morning. Even should the parents 
wish to open the window at the top, they cannot do so, for in 
the miserable dwellings for the poor windows are seldom made 
to open in this way. We cannot wonder there is always so 
much fever, scrofula, and preventible disease, when we know 
how people are crowded together. Fathers and mothers will 
not put up with these miserable homes when they know Avhat 
I have told you during my lectures. The air at the bottom 
and top of all rooms is the least pure ; for this reason people 
should neither sleep on the floor nor allow a baby's cot to 
stand on the floor ; it should always be put on a table or raised 
in some way. 

Germs grow quickly in all organic matter, but they grpw 
the quickest in liquids. Milk, you know, is organic matter; 
it is therefore very dangerous to leave milk, or any solid or 
liquid food, in a sick person's room, for the germs that are in 
the air may fall into this food. Should anyone eat this food, 
they would very likely take the fever, or whatever the com- 



150 COOKING. 

plaint might be. Last antamn, in London, in the parishes of 
St. George, Hanover Square, Marjleboue, and Paddington, 
there were no less than 104 famihes who were seized with 
typhoid fever. It was found that ninety-six of those families 
had all had their milk from one dairy. When the health 
inspector went to examine the dairy, he found that typhoid 
fever had been in the farm-house where the milk came from, 
and all these cases of typhoid fever had been caused therefore 
by drinking this milk. Very often milk, as we know, is mixed 
with water. Should this water have been poisoned by organic 
matter from a drain or farmyard, the milk with which it is 
mixed may give disease. 

Jags, or any utensils that hold milk, particularly feeding- 
bottles for infants, ought always to be washed out with hoiUng 
water, because boiling water kills all animal and vegetable germs 
Warm water only makes them grow. It is sad to think how 
many little children suffer and die in the summer from bowel 
complaints, because they have drunk sour milk. Whenever 
milk is sour, you know directly that germs are growing in it. 
The feeding-bottle which I fear is most used is the one that 
has a long india-rubber tube. Some of the milk, in passing 
through this tube, is changed into a poisonous gas called sul- 
phuretted hydrogen. In addition to this, the milk sticks to 
the inside of the tube and becomes sour and full of poisonous 
matter. No nurse, however careful, ca7i clean out this tube, 
for if boiling water were poured thiough it, the india-rubber 
of which the tube is made would be spoiled. In 1871, 471 
little infants died in Leeds under a year old of diarrhoea. Mr. 
Wheelhouse believes these tubes to be the cause of hundreds 
of cases of diarrhoea and of many deaths every year. The 
only safe feeding-bottle is the old-fashioned one that has a 
teat over the glass mouth, and no tube. The teat can be put 
into boiling water, and thus made quite sweet. 
^ It is quite impossible to cook well unless all the saucepans 
and utensils you use are perfectly clean. Every saucepan 
ought to be washed out with boiling water ; and the water 
ought to have some soda in it, because you know soda will 
take away all the grease that may be in the saucepan. Spoons, 
forks, ba>sins, dripping-pans, gridirons, must also be as caro- 



IMPORTANCE OF CLEANLINESS. 151 

fully washed as the saucepan. Some people will tell you that 
it is not right to wash a dripping-pan or a gridiron very often, 
as they ought to be greasy. On the contrary, they ought to 
be washed directly they have been used, or the dripping will 
be very bad and unwholesome. A little bit of dead organic 
matter left in a saucepan will spoil the flavour of any food 
that is put into it. Grease is organic matter. My cook tells 
me that she never uses a saucepan without putting her hand 
into it, because she can tell certainly by that means whether 
it is quite free from grease. 

The outside as well as the inside of a saucepan ought to 
be washed, or the smoke and soot will cover the outside, and 
prevent the heat from passing through to heat the food. This 
pan, you see, is a clean, bright tin one. The water in it is 
boiling. You could not bear to keep your finger one instant 
upon any part of it ; but just cover it with soot, or put a thick 
coat of soot on your hand, and you will find that you could 
then hold the saucepan on your hand very well for some 
minutes. This will show you how soot keeps out the heat ; 
and you can therefore understand that a saucepan covered 
with soot will not receive as much heat as a clean saucepan, 
and the water in it will not boil so quickly. With a bright 
kettle, and a very little bit of bright, hot fire, you could boil 
some water very quickly. 

Dirty saucepans make dirty hands, and dirty shelves and 
walls which they hang by or rest upon. A cook who keens 
everything she uses clean, saves time, her own clothes, her 
master's coals, and the food she cooks. The bad and wasteful 
English plan of putting a saucepan filled with food on a fire, 
to boil away for a long time, not only spoils the food, but 
spoils the saucepan. The food gets burnt, and sticks to the 
bottom and sides, and is most difficult to scrape off*. I once 
saw a kitchen-maid whose nails were quite worn down to the 
quick by trying to scrape it off. If any of the old burnt food 
is left in the saucepan, which it must often be, when put on 
the fire, then the fresh food will take the flavour of the burnt 
grease and be spoilt. 

I once heard a professed cook say to her pupils, ' When 
you want to fry fish you must first let the fat boil, and more 



162 COOKING. 

than boil.' Now, if fish or any food were cooked in boiling 
fat, it would be 'spoiled and burnt to a cinder. Fat is a 
difficult substance tO cook. Burnt fat is very difficult to 
digest ; pancakes and fried fish are considered trying to a 
delicate stomach. Water boils at 212°, but fat does not boil 
until at 600° or 700°. Fish, veal cutlets, and all kinds of food 
will be beautifully browned when the fat is at 350°. 

The cook will now fry this piece of fish, called a fillet of 
sole, in this fat ; you will see by the thermometer that the 
heat of the fat is what I have already named — 350°. Directly 
the fish is nicely browned she will put the frying-pan on to 
the hot hob, and let the fish remain there until it is done. 
Fried fish, like all other food, ought to be gradually cooked, 
not fried in boiling fat. 

I have told you that the Paris and the Vienna bakers 
make the besft bread. The simple reason why they sur- 
pass the bakers of all other countries is because they use 
a thermometer, and find out by it when the oven is at the 
exact heat it ought to be before they put in their bread. 
In this country, bakers gain this information by many little 
guess-work schemes, such as our cook, who is an excellent 
bread-maker, employs. She puts her hand into the oven 
to feel how hot the air is. As her hand is sometimes veiy 
hot, and at other times very cold, she cannot always find out 
the exact heat of the oven. When her hand is very hot, the 
oven will not seem as hot as it really is ; if her hand is very 
cold, the contrast with the hot oven will make the heat seem 
greater than it really is ; and in this way she may fail to judge 
the heat of the oven rightly, and then her bread will be spoilt. 
When the dough is put into the oven, the heat ought to be 
about 570° Fahr. In about five minutes the heat should 
gradually grow less, to between 430° and 420°. When yon 
put the dough into a properly heated oven — 570° Fahr — the 
starch grains swell in the dough and the yeast plant continues 
to grow, until the heat in the air in the oven has spread 
throughout all the dough, and then the yeast plant is killed. 
It will take about five minutes to do this. Then the oven 
should be made cooler by a great many degrees ; let the heat 
go down until it is about 420° ; then the bread may bakp <«• 



USE OF THE niEKMOMETER. 153 

cook gradaally. If the oven is not hot enongh at first (570°), 
the yeast goes on rising or growing, and the bread becomes 
full of holes bke a honeycomb. Directly we se(^ such bread 
we say it has not been well baked. 

Every oven ought to have a special arrangement for the 
use of a thermometer. It is very difficult now to place one 
conveniently. When I was in Paris this autumn I was kindly 
taken through the kitchens of the Louvre Hotel ; there I saw 
the oven was provided with a thermometer attached to the 
outside. The maker of this oven is A. M. Lesobre, 17, Hue 
de la Yieille-Estrade, Paris. I also found that all the meat 
was roasted at a splendid open fire. No meat can be properly 
roasted in an ov^en. The fresh air that surrounds the "meat, 
has a peculiar and healthy effect. 

Home-made bread is more wholesome than bought bread, 
because bakers often add alum to make bad flour appear white 
and good. Bakehouses are too frequently dirty, unventilated 
cellars, in which the air is most impure. 

This is my last lecture on cooking. I hope you have all 
learnt by this time the value of the thermometer. It is not at 
all an expensive instrument. Messrs. Harvey & Reynolds, 
Commercial Street, Leeds, sell some, like this I have used, at 
3s., which go up to nearly 700°. With one of these a 
cook could boil and fry every kind of food. I hope that there 
will soon he one in every kitchen, and that all young girls will 
be taught to use them. A thermometer that goes up to G00° 
will answer all cooking purposes. 

Thiitgs provided for the Lecture. 
A frying-pan. 

Some dr pping for trying the fish. 
Fillet of sole (with seasoned bread crumbs and egg all ready prepared). 

Questions for the Twenty-first Lecture, 

1. C n you tell me what (-rganic matter is? 

2. Why is it dangerous to drink or eat any fo)d that has remained in 

the room of a s'ck person who has had a fever or any contagious 
complaint ? 
?. How would you clean a gridiron, dripping-pan, or any saucepan so 
that it should not be thw Ifvast cjreasy ? 



.54 TUE NERVES. 

4. Why is it necessary to clean a saucepan outsicle as well as inside? 

5. Ilow would you find out the proper heat to fry fi>h or any food in 5C 

as to make it a beautiful brown colour? 

6. Why do the Paris bakers and the bakers in Vienna make the best 

bread ? 



LECTURE XXII. 

THE NERVES AND THE SENSE OF HEARING. 

To-day I am going to explain the organ of hearing. Before I 
do so I must tell you a little more about the nerves. Thej 
may be compared to the springs in a watch. When a watch- 
maker has made all the wonderful parts or organs of a watch, 
they would not move unless ho put some springs which keep 
the organs going. Our nerves are the springs which are 
fastened to all our muscles, and by this means our limbs are 
made to move. Those nerves that spread through our bodies 
come out from the spinal cord, which passes down the backbone, 
or spinal column. There are, you know, twenty-nine bones in 
the spine. At every joint a pair of nerves come out, one on 
each side of the spine between the vertebrae. These nerves 
spread out all over the body like a fine white network. Look 
at this diagram (page 67),^ and you will see them. In this 
picture of the spinal column (page 66)"^ you may see how they 
come out between each pair of vertebrae. Each spinal nerve 
is really made up of two sets of cords wrapped up side by side 
in a sort of sheath. One set of these cords forms the nerve of 
fieeling, the other the nerve of motion. 

The spinal cord, you know, is also connected with the 
brain. When anything happens to the outside of the body, 
the nerve of feeling takes the news of it up to the brain ; and 
then the nerve of motion carries back directions what to do, 
and puts our limbs into action. 

For instance, if you pu.t your hand on anything hot, the 
nerve of feeling in the hand sends a message up to the brain 
to say that touching this hot thing hurts your hand. If it is 
burning hot, the brain sends back a message by the nervo of 

' Marshall' .s diagi-ain. No. 7. ^ Hid. 



NERVES OF FEELING AND MOTION. 155 

motion to take the hand oif. Sometimes it happens that the 
nerves of motion become killed or paralysed for a time by a 
stroke or a fit of paralysis, while the nerves of feeling are not 
at all injured by the fit. This once happened to a man. He 
could not move any limb, not even his tongne to speak, but all 
the time he could hear, see, and understand w^hat the people 
did and said who were standing round his bed. In a few days 
his nerves of motion recovered their power, and then he told 
all those who had been in the room how dreadful it had been : 
for he had understood all they had said, and they had talked 
about a groat many things of which they would not have spoken 
had they known that he could understand. Nurses and 
friends should be very careful not to talk before paralysed 
people when they have lost their speech. 

We have some nerves that are called voluntary nerves — 
that is, nerves which give us the power to move the limbs to 
which they go ; for instance, the nerves in my hand and 
tongue are voluntary nerves. I call these nerves into action 
when I determine to move my hand, but I do not of my own 
accord excite the nerves that make my heart beat so regularly. 
If it stopped beating for a few seconds I should die. Lest I 
should forget to excite these nerves upon which my life de- 
pends, the Almighty does it for me. Great fear makes us 
grow very cold. Sometimes the muscles become quite pai*a- 
lysed by fear, and they cannot move. The heart then ceases 
to beat, and we die. This is how people are killed by fear. 

How very cruel it is to frighten a little child or any dumb 
animal ! It is also very silly to try and make a child or a 
dumb animal do anything by fear ; for we all know that when 
we are very much afraid we lose our senses and the power of 
doing anything. Nurses who frighten children are not only 
very cruel but very silly, for in the end they have much 
more trouble with the children than if they had treated them 
kindly and sensibly. 

Mr. Wheelhouso, the doctor, was once sent for to a little 
boy who had the croup. His nurse or parents had been in 
the habit of telling him that if he was a naughty boy tha 
doctor would come and cut him' up. "When the doctor did 
come, and perhaps might have saved his life, the child screamed 



156 THE NERVES. 

SO fearfully that Mr. Wheelhonse was obliged to remain in 
another room while the child was dying. I am afraid that 
a great many children are made idiots or weak in mind by 
fear. 

When the mind is troubled and weakened, all the organs 
become weakened too. It has often happened that a person 
who was just going to sit down to a good dinner received bad 
T'Gws. Instantly after hearing such news even the smell and 
sight of the good things became disagreeable to him. This 
is the reason why people grow thin when they are unhappy. 
They lose their appetite and cannot eat. When our minds 
are troubled, and we are unhappy, riches and ease bring us no 
comfort. The only way to cure unhappiness is to work. 
Try to do something that will help other people ; get plenty 
of fresh air and exercise. A poet has said that our nerves 
are like a stringed instrument called a harp. He says — 

Strange tliat a barp of thousand strings 
Should keep in tui.e so long. 

You must often have heard people say, ' I am quite un- 
strung; my nerves are shaken.' It is quite true that the 
nerves of people who sit in bad air, such as is to be found in 
crowded schoolrooms, workshops, theatres, and courts of 
justice, become very irritable and shaky ; though these people 
feel very weak, nervous, and cross, they cannot bear to bo 
quiet. This is the state of mind that leads people to drink 
and take spirits. Alas ! by doing so they only add one poison 
to another; for spirits, you know, at last make the nerves so 
weak that the whole frame trembles from head to foot. Bad 
air, again, is very trying to little children. They are often 
required to sit still with their arms crossed for a long time 
together. This position contracts their lungs, while the bad 
air in the crowded schoolroom, where they have spent several 
hours, naturally makes them restless and irritable. This bad 
air has the same effect npon teachers, who are not then dis- 
posed to be very gentle to the children under their care. 

Toothache and tic are complaints sometimes caused by 
weak nerves. You know there is a nerve in every one of our 
leeth. Little children who live in bad air sufftn- dreadfully 



EFFECTS OF NERVOUS IRKITATION. 157 

v^hile they are cutting their teeth, but childreu who Uve in the 
.ountry and have good air do not suffer half so much. If 
properly fed and nursed, they ought scarcely to suffer at ali. 
Doctors say that a great many more children die in large 
towns than in the country. The nerves in their teeth, being 
weak from bad air and bad food, cannot bear the pressure of 
the gum, which becomes very much swollen and inflamed. 
Directly a doctor lances the gum and lets out tlie blood the 
pain goes away, because the gum no longer presses on the 
nerves. It is a pity that so many mothers are afraid to let 
their childi-en's gums be lanced, for this simple operation 
prevents convulsions and a great deal of suffering. 

Oxygen strengthens and tightens the nerves just as the 
tuning-key tightens the strings of a harp and puts it in tune. 
Don't you know how cheerful and good-tempered you feel 
when yoD.have been out for a long walk in the countrj-, and 
how quickly you fall asleep when you go to bed ? What a 
pity it is that mothers do not try and give their children fresh 
air, instead of buying soothing syrups to make them sleep ! 
There are hundreds of these dreadful syrups, and in every one 
of them there is laudanum. It is nothing but the laudanum 
that sends the children to sleep. Only a few weeks ago a 
friend of mine heard a lecture that was given by a celebrated 
doctoi in a lunatic asylum, a place where mad people are kept. 
He sa/d that people now drink a great deal of laudanum, or 
swalkrw opium, from which laudanum is made, and that this 
driven them mad. Worse than this, the quantity given to 
little children by their mothers is something immense. Lau- 
danum deadens the nerves, so that they can scarcely move. 
The appetite goes, and the child who has continually taken 
laudanum is pined to death. 

A friend of mine went into the house of a poor neighbour 
jsome months since, knd saw a poor little infant in its mother's 
irms trembling like a leaf. She said, ' Oh dear, the poor little 
thing is going to have a fit.' ' Oh, no,' replied the mother; 
* it only does this because it wants to go to sleep.' Another 
day she went in and found it just in the same dreadful state; 
this time she saw the mother give it some soothing syrup, and 
it soon fell asleep, TIh; mother said, ' Oh, it will never sleep 



158 THE J^EE-VES. 

without that stafl:\' The poor little child was only skin and 
bone ; it has since died. I am afraid that thousands are killed 
in the same horrible way. I will tell you the following facts 
to prove the immense quantity of these soothing syrups that 
are sold. A respectable druggist of Manchester once told 
Dr. Lyon Playfair that he sold, every week, five gallons of 
'quietness' and half-a-gallon of ' Godfrey's soothing cordial.* 
In Preston it was found that the chemists sold, every week, 
701. worth of ' Godfrey's cordial,' ' quietness,' ' child's pre- 
server,' ' syrup of poppies,' and laudanum. 

My father was a doctor. He gave us, his children, very 
little medicine, and begged us never to take any unless a 
doctor had ordered it. It is only men and women who are 
ignorant of physiology who will venture to give medicine to 
their children, or to children who have been committed to 
their care. I have often heard ladies say, ' My nur.-e under- 
stands all about a baby, and she knows when to give it 
medicine.' If mothers themselves took care of their children 
when they were young, neither a doctor nor medicine would 
often be needed. I perhaps know more than a nurse, }et I 
should not venture to give medicine to anyone, much less to 
a child. 

It is sad to know that thousands of quack doctors grow 
rich by selling their pills and lotions, while the people who 
buy and swallow them grow poorer and more unhealthy. It 
is a pity that they do not keep their money and spend it on 
a trip to the country, where fre.sh air and change of scene 
might really do their health good. I do hope you will never 
buy any medicine that is advertised in a newspaper or on a 
wall ; for, you may believe me, no really good and clever 
doctor will ever advertise the pills and lotions he has made, 
and say that they will cure all kinds of complaints, with- 
out ever having seen the person who was going to take 
them. How is a person to know what is the matter with 
himself or his child if he is not a doctor ? Even the cleverest 
doctors say that it is difficult for those of them who live in 
the house with their patients and see them every day, to find 
out which of the forty organs is diseased or out of order. The 
quack medicine you have paid so dearly for may be the very 



EFFEC'IS OF LEAr> POISONING. 161) 

one that you ought not to take, and may hurt the organ that 
is weak. 

People are very foolish to buy hair- washes. They gene- 
rally contain lead, which is a dreadful poison, and often 
causes paralysis. I have a friend who used a hair-wash — 
fortunately only for a short time — and she became slightly 
paralysed. Lead which is in paint, and sometimes in drink- 
ing-water, &c., injures the nerves very much, and gives many 
painful complaints. Dr. Guy says that early in the eighteenth 
century there was a dreadfal disease in Devonshire. People 
were first taken ill with a painful colic, next their hands be- 
came paralysed, and lastly they were delirious or epileptic, 
and they died in convulsions. Devonshire is a county where 
cider is made and the people drink a great deal of it. Sir 
George Baker, a celebrated physician, determined to find out 
the cause of this disease. The cider was chemically ex- 
amined, and it was found to contain lead. The next point 
was to discover how the lead had got into the cider. It was 
found that the following things were done by those who 
made the cider : — The presses in which the apples (cider is 
made of apples) were put were mended by iron cramps fixed 
by melted lead. If there was a crack in the press, this crack 
was covered over by a sheet of lead. A leaden weight was 
put into the cider to prevent the liquor from turning sour, 
and lastly the cider was carried from the press in leaden pipes. 

Lead can enter the blood through the pores of the skin ; 
that is why hair- washes containing lead paralyse people. 
Painters, plumbers, type-founders, and all who work with 
substances that contain lead, should wash their skin frequently, 
and always wash their hands and faces before eating any- 
thing. Some persons are made very ill by remaining in a 
house while it is being painted, or by sleeping in a freshly 
painted bedroom. 

The sense of hearing, which I am now going to explain, is 
called a tipecial sense. When we hear any noise, the sound 
of it comes through the air and strikes our ears. You know 
that if you stop your ears you will not hear anything; but I 
will also show you that without the air }T)u w uuld be equally 
unable to hear. 



ioO THE NERVES. 

The air about ns is made up of very tiny particles ot 
matter ; matter means something you can feel or touch. 
We cannot, it is true, see the air that fills this room, but we 
often feel it when we are out of doors on a windy day ; then 
it knocks against us so roughly that it nearly throws us 
down. The air helps us to hear, for when anything makes 
a noise it knocks these little particles against each other, and 
they carry on the sound to our ears. 

You have all thrown stones into a pond of water, and 
seen that directly the stone struck the water little rings were 
made all round the place where the stone fell in. These little 
rings round the hole spread out one after another like small 
waves, until they reached tlie edge of the pond. Every time 1 
speak the air is forced out of my lungs and pushes the air in 
this room, and little rings or waves of sound are made, that 
spread oat one after another until they reach the walls. 

If there was no air, there would be nothing to make a 
sound, and everything would be silent. You see this glass, 
nnd inside it there is a little bell. All the air has been pumped 
out of the glass. We can pump out air just as we can pump 
out water. Now I will ring this little bell. Do you hear any 
sound ? No, not any, because there arc no particles of air 
inside the glass to make the waves of sound. When a noise is 
made waves of sound go through the air in all directions, and 
some of them get into your ears. You have a great many 
nerves of sound in your ears ; the rings or waves strike these 
nerves, and they carry the soand to the little centre of white 
and grey matter that holds the sense of hearing, placed in the 
back part of the head under the little bvuin. We have two 
centres of hearing, one for each ear. We have an outer ear 
and an inner ear. You can only see the outer ear ; it is this 
curled or twisted piece of flesh. It is twisted because the 
waves or rings of sound can get into the ear more easily 
through these curved places. Human beings generally cannot 
move the outer ear, but a great many animals can do so. A 
horse pricks up its ears, so does a donkey. 

All animals who have to escape from their enemies by 
runring away can 'fortunately hear very quickly, such as a 
hare or a rabbit. Sporting dogs have very large outer ears. 



THK E4.R. 161 

The dogs called rat-catchers have very large outer ears, because 
they have to listen at the mouth of the hole where the rat 
lives, to hear whether the rat is at home. If the dog hears a 
certain noise, he knows the rat is inside, and then goes into 
the hole to try and catch him. Rat-catchers also want these 
long ears to prevent the earth that they scratch out of the hole 
from getting into the ear. 

A great many people cut dogs' ears ; it is a most ignorant 
and cruel practice. It is done to improve their beauty. Do 
you think that animals would have long ears but for some wise 
purposes, or that men can improve their beauty ? 

Landseer, the celebrated painter of animals, was walking 
down a street in London, and met a man who was selling 
dogs. To liis great surprise and delight, none of the dogs 
had their ears cut. He asked the man the reason why. 
* Don't you know that Landseer, the great painter of dogs, says 
they ought never to be cut, and he will not paint any dogs 
whose ears are cut ? ' Landseer told the man that he was 
speaking to that painter, and they were both equally pleased 
to have seen each other. 

Now, there is a passage, about an inch long, that goes from 
the outer ear to what is called the middle ear; this middle ear 
is placed inside the bone of the skull which is called the tem- 
poral bone. You can feel this bone behind your outer ear; it 
is very strong. The end of this passage is covered by a little 
piece of skin, so that nothing can go through it. Inside thit^ 
passage there are a great many hairs and a good deal of wax. 
These hairs and wax prevent little insects and dust from 
getting in. You must never pick your ears with anything. 
Mothers, I hear, clean their children's ears with a pin, which 
is a most dangerous practice, as the pin might burst that little 
skin, called the drum, tliat covers the end of the passage. If 
you could look behind the drum, you would see a little room, 
called the middle ear, which is filled with air. In this room 
there are three curious little bones. These bones are connected 
together by little joints. One little bone is like a hammer, 
another is like an anvil, and the third is like a stirrup into 
which you put your foot when you ride on horseback. One 
of the bones, the hammer, is fastened to the drum or skin that 



162 THt: NERVLS. 

covers the end of the passage, and the last bone, the stirrup, 
is fastened to another little skin that covers a most wonderful 
winding passage in the inner ear. One part of this second 
passage is called the labyrinth, because it twists about ; and 
the other part of the passage is called the shell, because the 
passage winds about in the shape of a snail's shell. In these 
passages there is a liquid like water, and then there is a bag 
which is filled with the same fluid, and floats in the watery- 
passage. A great many nerves ctf sound, tliat look like fine 
threads, cover the floating bag, and go along inside the pas- 
sages until they reach the collections or centres of white and 
gr-oy matter which are placed in the back part of the head. 
The nerves of sound are placed in water, because water carries 
sound much more quickly than air. 

Now I have only to describe how the air moves these 
nerves of hearing. When the waves of sound rush into the 
first passage, they strike against the piece of skin that covers 
that passage, called the drum, and make a noise just as if yon 
struck a drum with a stick. This skin moves and pushes 
those curious little bones that lie in the little room that is 
filled with air on the other side of the drum. They all begin 
to shake and tremble until they make -the air knock against 
the other little piece of skin, called the oval window, that 
covers the entrance into that curious winding passage in the 
inner ear ; and then all the little nerves that are in the bag of 
water begin to tremble, and they tremble so much thai they 
shake the nerves which pass from them, until this shaking 
reaches the 'centre* of hearing under the big brain. The 
brain then feels the shaking, listens, and begins to think about 
what it hears, and then finds out what the sound means. 

Wo all know that children suffer very much from earache. 
There is no doubt that a great deal of their suffering is caused 
by the way in which those who have the care of them clean 
their ears. The only part of the ear that ought to be washed 
with soap and water is the outside ear which twists about. 
Great care should be taken to dry ijenthj all these twisted 
parts, and to let no water get into the little hole that leads into 
the first passage. If the ear is healthy, this passage is never 
dirty. Nature cleans it out by means of the wax, which 



THE EAR. 163 

e^rows very dry and falls out in fine powder. If water gets 
in, the wax is spoilt. People often squeeze up the end of a 
towel, and push it into the hole ; this presses the wax down 
upon the skin, or drum, that covers the end of the passage. 
Air cannot then get into the ear, and the lump of wax gets 
hard and injures the drum, or causes inflammation, so that 
the child may become hard of hearing or deaf. An earpick or 
a pin is sometimes used to take out the wax, and these may 
also break the drum. A loud and sudden noise has broken 
the drum, such as the going off* of a gun close to the ear. No 
one ought to be allowed to box a child's ears, because the blow 
forces the air against the drum just as a loud noise does, and 
the membrane of the drum may be injuri d A doctor tells 
the following sad story to show how cruel this practice is : — 

A boy who had been troubled with sore ears became hard 
of hearing. His father was in the habit of boxing his ears, 
because his son appeared stupid and inattentive. The boy 
died, and it was then fonnd that his ears were diseased. The 
doctor thought the death might have been caused by the 
blows the boy had received. 

If a child cries when its ears are washed, or does not 
generally attend to what is said to it, let a doctor look at its 
ears, for very often this inattention is not the child's fault. 
When a child has sore ears, or is suffering from ear-ache, apply 
hot flannels. People often put hot onions, figs, &c., into the ear 
for tooth-ache as well as ear-ache. No one but a doctor ought 
to put anything into the ear. Cotton-wool collects in the 
ear and injures the hearing. When a person is exposed to a 
draught or cold wind, a handkerchief should be tied over the ear. 

I will now let you see and examine this beautiful model of 
an ear, and I think you will find that all the parts I have 
described are there. 

Tliivgs provided for tJie Lecture. 
A diagram of the brain, spinal cord, and nerves. 
Auzoux's model of the ea . 

Questions for the Twenty -second Lecture. 
1. "Why is it very dangerous to frighten a child? 

3. Why do a great many more children die in large towns every yeai 
while cuiting their teeth than in the country • 



164 THE NERVES. 

3. Why are all kinds of soothing syrups very dangerous, and sure tc 

weaken the nerves of a baby? 

4. "Why is it very unwise to take any quack medicines, particularly 

those which are advertised in newspapers or on the walls? 

5. "Why is it very cruel and foolish to cut off the ears of a dog ? 

6. Describe all you can remember about the sense of hearing. 

7. Why is it dangerous to box a child's ears ? 



LECTURE XXIII. 
SIGHT AND SUNSHINE. 



The sense of hearing, which I described in my last lecture, is 
called a special sense, because the nerves of hearing are only, 
or specially, made to receive and carry the waves of sound. 
The sense of sight is also called a special sense, because the 
nerves of sight are only, or specially, made to carry the waves 
of light. We cannot see with the nerves of hearing, or hear 
with the nerves of sight. The nerves of sight and hearing 
have no feeling, like the nerves that are spread all over other 
parts of our bodies ; even the slightest touch hurts these 
nerves of feeling, but someone might cut your nerves of sight 
and your nerves of hearing, and you would feel no pain. 

I am now going to explain the organ of sight. When I 
showed you the human skull, you must all have noticed what 
very deep holes there were in the place where the eyes ought 
to be. Those holes are called sockets : they are filled with 
cushions of fat, that have a hole in the middle of them. In 
these holes the eyeballs rest. The eyeball is round ; it has 
three coverings. I have a .large model of the eye, which I 
will now show you. I can take this model to pieces and show 
you how wonderfully the eyeball is made, but before I do so 
let us see what the front part of the eyeball, that we can see. 
looks like. First, there is the part called the white of the 
eye, then in the centre of the white there is a clear glass-like 
part, behind which is seen a coloured ring. In some people 
this ring is blue, in others it is black, and in others grey or 
brown ; but we all have a little hole exactly in the middle of 
this coloured ring which always looks black. As all the light 



THE EYE. 165 

tliat enters the eye passes through this dark hole, it is called 
the window or pupil of the eye. If you can't see this model, 
look into each other's eyes, and you will see that your eyes 
nave what I have described. I will now take the eyeball to 
pieces. It has three coverings. The first one outside is 
white, and we can see it because a part of this cover comes to 
the front, and is called the white of the eye. The second 
covering is black. And now we come to the third or inside 
covering, which I shall explain first. 

The third covering is called the retina, and consists of a 
transparent nervous substance as clear as glass ; but as the 
eyeball is also transparent like glass, the gentleman who mode 
the model has made the retina look white like ground glass, in 
order to show how much of the eyeball is covered or lined by 
the retina. This retina consists of an immense number of 
threads, which are the nerves of sight. These nerves all join 
together into this large nerve of sight which you see at the 
back of the eyeball. This large nerve of sight goes to the 
portion of the brain devoted to sight, that lies between the 
gi-eat and the little brain. As we have two eyes, we have two 
such portions of brain. They are called the centres or ganglia 
of sight. When rays of light have entered into the eyeball 
through the window, or pupil, they first pass through some 
clear parts, called the humours, and then strike and go 
through the retina, and then they all sink into the second 
black covering, which I will now place over the retina. 
Directly all the rays of light have sunk into this black cover- 
ing, a perfect picture will appear on the retina, at the back of 
the eyeball, of all that stands in front of the eye. For in- 
stance, at this moment there is a perfect picture painted on the 
retina of my eye, as on a looking-glass, of this room and every 
boy and girl before me. The nerves of sight of which the 
retina is made are very delicate ; they cannot bear too much 
light all at once. What do we do when too much light 
comes into a room ? Do we not draw a curtain, to keep out 
some of the light ? A beautiful little curtain is also drawn 
for us directly too much light tries to pass through the window 
of the eye. This little coloured ring 1 showed you that is 
placed round the window or pupil of the eye is the curtain, 



166 SIGHT AND SUNSHINE. 

and is called the iris. We have all different coloured ejes, aa 
I said, because we have all different coloured curtains ; some 
are blue, some brown, some black. When the light is not 
too strong, the window or hole in the centre of the eye 
becomes large ; but when the light is very strong the curtain 
draws together and makes this hole very small. Have you 
ever seen a cat's eyes in a dark room, how bright they are, 
and how large the window, or pupil, looks ? A cat can see 
much better than we can in the dark, because her window 
can be made much larger than ours, and so lets moie light 
go in. 

I will now say a few words more about the first two cover- 
ings of the eyeball. The black one, or second covering, is 
called the choroid, and is filled with veins, arteries, and capil- 
laries. It must therefore be carefully guarded. It is well 
protected, you see, by the white or first covering, which is 
called the sclerotic, for it is very tough and strong. I will 
place it over the black coverinor. The black covering makes 
the picture on the retina look more distinct, and it also makes 
the window, or pupil, of the eye look so black. Over the 
front part of the eye, where the curtain and window are 
placed, there is a transparent covering like the glass face of 
a watch, called the cornea. It also bulges out like a watch- 
glass, and is fitted into a little groove that runs all round the 
edge of the white coat, or sclerotic. 

I will now explain why we have eyebrows, eyelashes, and 
eyelids. Insidf* the eyelids there is a very tender coat or 
skin, which is quite transparent. The same skin passes over 
the whole of the front part of the eye. If a bit of dust has 
ever got into your eye or under the eyelid, you will know-; 
from the pain it gave you, how delicate this coat is. The 
smallest piece of any hard substance would injure the eye 
if it remained in it ; this skin is therefore made so sensitive 
and tender that we cannot rest until the hard stuff has been 
taken out. 

Everybody ought to know how to take out anything that 
has entered the eye. You have only to press a knitting 
needle or something hard across the outside of the lid at the 
top, take hold of the upper eyelashes and make the lid turn 



THE EIE. 167 

over the hard needle. Then you will easily discover the sub- 
stance, if it is sticking, as it often does, to the delicate 
membrane. A clean quill pen is a good thing to get it out 
with, if it cannot be gently washed or rubbed off. 

On the outside of the eye, in this corner farthest from 
the nose, are placed our tear-glands. These little tear-glandn 
and other little glands on the inside of the eyelids are con- 
stantly forming and sending the watery fluid known as the 
tears over the front of the eye. The lid moves this water 
about and. washes the cornea with it, so that there may be no 
dust on it to prevent the light from passing through the 
window, or pupil. This is what happens when we wink. 
Perhaps you do not know that you wink your eyes a great 
many times in a minute. The dirty water runs out into two 
little holes ; one is on the top lid and the other on the bottom 
lid. In the corner of the eye near the nose tliere is a little 
tube that passes down into the nose ; this tube, or pipe, 
carries the water away through it. "When we cry we always 
blow our nose ; as the tear-glands then send out too much 
water for the pipes to carry along into the nose, the tears then 
run down over the cheeks also. 

The eyelashes are little brushes that sweep away all 
the dust that might otherwise get into the eye. The eye- 
brows also keep off the dust. Grooms, and ignorant people 
who have the care of horses, sometimes cut their eyelashes. 
A horse has no hands ta rub his eyes with when anything 
gets into them, as we have. Eyelashes are therefore even 
more necessary for a horse than for us. This cruel practice 
makes their eyes inflame. The little red piece of flesh at the 
corner of our eyes is much bigger in a horse, and is called a 
' haw.' This haw grows big and inflamed when the eyelashes 
have been cut. The same ignorant people who cut away the 
eyelashes cut the haw too when it becomes inflamed, as they 
do not understand its us3. This piece of flesh in a horse has 
the power of moving over a great part of the eye, and so rubs 
off any dust or hard bits that may get into it. Fancy what 
the poor horse will have to suffer who has been deprived of 
both eyelashes and haw, when he has to travel over dusty 
roads on a windy day. 



IH* SIGHT AND SUNSHiJJE. 

Bad air injures the eyes of human beings and all animals 
Little children who live in bad air have a very painful diseasK 
of the eyes. Stables where horses are kept are often very 
dirty. Out of the dead organic matter which often lies in a 
stable comes a gas called ammonia ; this gas makes the eyes 
very sore. Dark stables are also very bad for horses. 

I must not forget to point out the six muscles which are 
fastened to the back and sides of the eyeball ; the eye by 
means of these muscles can turn to the right and left, up and 
down, and in other directions. You can see these muscles in 
this model. I have not told you nearly all I should like 
to tell you about the eye. I hope when you are older some 
one will explain the use of this transparent body or humour 
inside, called the crystalline lens, and many other wonderful 
things. I do not think I could explain them so that you 
would be able to understand them yet. 

Parents and teachers are not aware that children often 
suffer from imperfect vision, or are short-sighted. At music 
lessons, or when they have to read what is written on a black- 
board, or distinguish the colour of an object, they sometimes 
appear stupid, and are punished for want of attention. Some- 
times, too, they are accused of not speaking the truth when 
they say they did not see something that everyone else saw. 
Instead of scolding and punishing, it would be better to be 
gentle and watch the case, and take the child to a doctor who 
understands the eye. 

The wonderful organs of sight which I have just tried to 
describe to you would be useless unless there was a sun to 
give us light. In the dark we can see nothing. I am now 
going to mention some more of the wonderful things we owe 
to the Fun. Without the sun we should have neither light, 
heat, the air we breathe, the food we eat, the water we drink, 
nor the coals that burn and make our fires. No animal or 
plant can live without the sun. I will first explain why 
plants must have sunshine. Before I do so, I had better 
remind you that carbonic acid gas is made of oxygen and 
carbon. I told you that the under part of every little leaf is 
covered over with organs called pores, or mouths, through 
which a plant givt s off oxygen gas and takes in the carbonic 



WHAT LIGHT DOES. 169 

acid gas we send out of our mouths, which poisons us and 
all animals. The plant does not like the carbonic acid ga"? 
any more than we do, but it likes the carbon that is in the 
carbonic acid gas. If the sun shines on the leaf, some of the 
rays of the sun separate the carbon from the oxygen, and 
the leaf then sends out all the oxygen it does not want into 
the air for us to breathe, and keeps the carbon for itself to 
help to make the grains of starch or the sugar which pro- 
duce fat when we eat vegetables. All plants, or vegetables, 
which are the same things, die when there is no sun to change 
or separate the carbonic acid gas into oxygen and carbon. 

When human beings live in dark places where the sun 
cannot come, their minds grow weak, and their bodies 
become unhealthy, and they fade like plants. Switzerland is 
a country where the mountains are sometimes so high that 
the valleys, or places that lie between two high mountains, 
get very little sunshine, and the air in them is often very close. 
Some of the Swiss people who live in these deep valleys 
have large swellings in their throats, and they lose their 
senses and become idiots. For a long time doctors could not 
find oat why these poor people were so much afflicted in body 
and mind. At last it struck them that these diseases came 
because they had not enough sunshine to purify the air. 
Hospitals were therefore built high up on the mountain sides, 
where plenty of sun could shine upon them and get into the 
rooms. When the idiots and people with swollen throats had 
been in these hospitals for some time, both body and mind 
grew much stronger, and they were able to work like other 
people. 

The Rev. J. H. F. Kendall, of Leeds, told me he once 
suffered from a sore throat for several months ; no medicine 
did him any good. At last it occurred to him that the room 
lie always sat in got no sun. He removed into another room 
upon which the sun was constantly shining. In a very short 
time he lost his sore throat. Florence Nightingale, who went 
out to nurse our poor wounded soldiers in the Crimea, found 
that the sick and wounded recovered very quickly on the 
sunny side of the hospital, but a great many of the poor 
fellows died who were obliged to lie on that which had very 



170 SIGHT AND SUNSHINE. 

little sun. It is very unwise of people to pull down their 
blinds to save their curtains and carpets, and to shut up their 
sunny sitting-rooms and only use them for grand parties, and 
live in dismal rooms every day that get no sun. No carpets, 
curtains, or furniture can be sweet and wholesome unless the 
snn can get to them. That is the reason why best rooms 
that are only used for parties smell so fusty and disagreeable 
when you go into them. 

I must now explain how it is that the sun gives us the 
water we drink and the air we breathe. This instrument, 
called an 'orrery,' which I have before me, represents our 
earth and the sun. This small round ball is our earth, and 
the large one is the sun. You see, if you look at our earth, 
that there is a great deal more water than land upon it. The 
heat of the sun strikes on to our earth and warms both the 
sea and land. The sun's rays pass into the sea and make the 
top of it very warm, so warm that some of the water is 
turned into vapour. The vapour being light, floats up into 
the air for a very great distance, many, many miles ; some 
of it then becomes cold, and falls down in rain. If the 
rain falls in a very cold country, like Russia, the vapour 
turns into snow and ice, and rests upon the mountains. 
Some of the ice and snow is constantly melting, and the water 
thus formed runs down the mountains in little streams. These 
little streams unite together and make a river. The river 
runs on until it reaches the I'^west level — that is, the sea from 
which it came. There is not v drop more water on the earth 
or in the sea or the air than when the world was made, 
because the water that is taken up from the sea into the air 
is always falling down again and finding its way back to the 
place it came from. It is therefore said to circulate. 

The rain that comes down in England upon :he moun- 
tains does not often become frozen on their summits, as our 
climate is not a very cold one. Some of the water as it runs 
dow^n the hill-sides gets into the earth and runs on till it 
meets with a piece of clay, which will not let it pass through, 
but holds it as if it was in a basin, and this basin is called a 
well. Well-water is generally very pure water ; but take 



RAIN AND SPRINGS. J 71 

care you never drink water out of a well which is placed near 
a large town, a drain, or a churchyard, for sometimes the 
dead organic matter from the churchyard and the poisonous 
gases get into it. This happened in London at the time of the 
cholera, twenty years ago. The water of a well in Go'den 
Square looked so bright and sparkling that the people 
thought it must be very pure water. When Dr. Lankester 
examined it he found a kind of fungus or yeast plant growing 
in it, and a great deal or' dead organic matter that had come 
from the churchyard. It was shown that all the people who 
drank water out of this well suffered from cholera. Whenever 
you have the least fear that water is not pure, boil it well. 
A filter only cleans the water ; ' it cannot kill any germs. 
Nothing but boiling water will kill them. 

Before I conclude my lecture I will just wind up this 
orrery ; it goes by clockwork. Our earth turns quite round 
on its own axis in twenty-four hours. That half of the earth 
which is turned towards the sun will have daylight; the 
other half which is turned away will be in the dark, and 
therefore it will be night. ♦ 

You also see that our earth moves round the sun. As we 
look into the sky it seems as if the sun moved round the 
earth. We are all taught at school to say that the sun rises 
and the isun sets; but this is an untrue statement, and mis- 
leads children very much. It is the earth we live on that 
may be said to rise and set, because it turns round so as to 
present any given part to the sun, and then from the sun once 
in every twenty-four hours. I was very anxious to bring this 
orrery on purpose to make you understand this fact. 

Things provided for the Lecture. 

An orrery. 

Axizoux's papier-mdche model of the eye. 

Questions for the Twenty-third Lecture. 

1. Dei^cribe all you can remeniber abouh the special organ of sight, and 
explain why the eyelashes of a horse ought never to be cut, nor 
that part in the eye called the haw. 



172 STGHT AND SUNSHINE. 

2. Name some of the complaints that human beings suffer from who 

live much in places where very little sunshine can come to them. 
"When Florence Nightingale nursed our poor soldiers in the Cri- 
mean war, what happened to the men who lay on that side of the 
hospital where they got scarcely any sun? 

3. How does the sun give us the carbon from which thr- fat is made 

that burns in our bodies, and how is ii that the sun's heat helps 
to give u~ the water we drink ? 

4. Why is it dangerous to drink water that has been got out of a well 

that is placed in a town, or from a well that is near a churchyard 
or any drains? 



LECTURE XXIV. 
THE VOICE. 



I SHALL begin my lecture to-daj by describing the beautiful 
little musical instrument or organ by which the voice is 
made. 

At the top of the windpipe, just at the back of the tongue, 
there is a small box, made chiefly of cartilages and muscles, 
called the larynx. Here is a picture of the larynx. It looks 
like a Jew's harp, only that it has two strings instead of one. 
I daresay ycu have noticed that men have a lamp in their 
throats. This lump is called Adam's apple, and it is made by 
this pointed part of the box, which comes to the front of 
the throat. These two strings or cords in the interior of the 
larynx, which go from the front to the back, are called vocal 
cords. 

Men have made a great many different kinds of stringed 
instruments, such as the harp and fiddle. Here is a harp. 
A liarp has a great many cords or strings, and they are all of 
different lengths, and each cord has a different tone or sound. 
I will first strike the longest one ; the tone you hear is a low 
one. Now I will strike the shortest one, and you will hear 
that it makes a high tone. The musical instrument in our 
throats, I told you, has only two strings. The strings are 
both of the same length, and yet we can make almost every 
different tone that a harp or any instrument that has ever been 
made can produce. Don't you think this is very wonderful? 



THE LARYNX. 



173 



I will now explain to yon how we are able to make our two 
strings either short or long. I told you. that the box, or larynx, 
across which the two vocal cords are placed is made up chiefly 
of muscles and cartilages. Some of these muscles are fastened 
to the cartilages and to the vocal cords, and they can draw 
the vocal cords out and so make them long, or shorten them 
by pulling them in, just in the same way that the cords or 
strings of a harp can be made tight or loose by turning these 
screws. When we sing a high note we stretch out our throats 
and hold up our chins ; by that means we help to tighten or 

Fig. 36. 




View of the larynx, as if you were looking down through the mouth into the windpipe. 
The back of the larynx, or musical box, is tliat j art marked b ; the pointed part comes 
to the front of the throat, and is callrd Adam's apple a. 7 and G are two cords called 
the vocal cords ; between these two cords there is an openin? called the glottis g. It 
is through this hole that the air enters and passes out from the lungs. The muscles 
that are in the larynx make the vocal cords come close together or draw them apart, 
make them loose or tight. 

screw up and shorten the cords. Look at a little bird when 
it is singing high notes, or a cock when it is crowing, and you 
will also see how much they stretch out their throats. A 
woman who is singing a high note or scolding some one across 
a room or street does just the same thing. "When we speak 
low, we let our chins fall ; the cords then become longer, and 
the opening between them is larger. 

When we play on a harp oi* fiddle we strike the strings 
with our fingers to make them shake or vibrate, and then a 
sound comes from them. What strikes against our vocal 
(.•ords ? It is the air, as it comes out of our lungs, that strikes 
against them and makes them shake or vibrate, and cause a 
sound. The air does not make the cords vibrate as it goes 
into the month, for while we are taking in air and filling our 



174 THE VOICE. 

lunga, our vocal cords are wide apart, and make an opening in 
tlio shape of the letter V. The wide part is at the back of 
the throat. It is impossible to speak or sing properly unless 
there is plenty of air in the lungs to come out and strike 
against the cords. 

Great fear takes away the breath. People who stammer 
Mro nervous. They are afraid they will not be able to speak, 
iind this fear takes away their breath and their presence of 
mind. They either try to speak when their lungs are empty 
()!• when they are taking in breath ; then of course they 
stammer, or fail to speak their words as they ought to do. It 
is very necessary that everybody should learn to speak well 
and distinctly, for men and women often want to make a large 
number of people hear what they have to say. It will be 
impossible for them to do so unless they have been taught 
how to pronounce their w^ords well, and where they ought to 
take in breath. I have heard men with loud voices speak in 
our town hall, but with all their efforts only those tolerably 
near could hear them. Shouting will not do ; shouting only 
injures the lungs and gradually the vocal cords. Clergymen 
and teachers often suffer from throat complaints, because they 
were not taught early how to manage their voices. A friend 
of mine, who was the cleverest and kindest teacher I have 
ever known, com[>letely lost her voice because she had thought 
it necessary to speak loudly. For a year she was obliged to 
give up teaching. When her voice returned she came back 
to the school, and ever after spoke in a low tone. She told 
me she found the children could hear her better than they 
used to do, were much more attentive, and the school alto- 
gether was in better order. 

To speak distinctly and with a pleasant voice you must 
know how to pronounce the vowels a, e, i, o, u. For instance, 
do not you think it sounds much better to say ' No, I won't,' 
than * Na, ar wearnt ' ? To say ' Na, ar wearnt,' you are 
obliged to make an ugly face and an ngly sound, and your 
voice cannot be heard at so great a distance as if you had said 
' No, I' won't.' The last letter of a word, ii it is a consonant, 
ought to be distinctly pronounced. Breath should be taken 
in at all the stops ; and, above all, the reader must not stoop, 



GENTLE SPEECH. 175 

because tlicn the Inngs are squeezed together, and they cannot 
hold all the air that is neicessary. Children who live with 
people who are gentle and speak softly, learn to speak softly 
too. It is true that some voices are sweeter than others ; but 
every voice can be trained to give out pleasant tones. Angry 
tones spoil the delicate vocal cords, and put them out of tune, 
and by the time a cnild has grown up their sweetness has 
gone for ever. 

Mothers have the power of teaching their children to play 
on the most perfect/ instrument that has ever been made. No 
instrument invented by man can produce such sweet tones as 
those which come from the human voice ; you will often hear 
people say, after hearing a woman sing, that her voice was 
divine. In a sick room a sweet voice will often soothe suflfer- 
ing when no medicines can bring relief. A little infant, who 
cannot understand a word that is spoken, can understand and 
be comforted by the sound of its mother's gentle voice. I 
believe the most hardened criminal can only be made to feel 
really sorry for his cruel deeds through the gentle tones of a 
voice that will tell him they come from a heart that is equally 
soft and tender. 

Two or three years since, when I was going over a public 
institution for certified children in this town, I wished to see 
the cell whore naughty children were put. When the door 
opened, 1 saw a poor little deformed hump-backed girl of ten. 
I only said two or three words to her, and she burst into tears, 
and cried . as if her heart would break. I never felt more 
unhappy than when the key was turned in the lock, and I had 
to leave this poor little creature to spend the rest of the day 
all alone in a small room which did not even contain a cbjiir. 
It appeared that she had broken a medicine bottle, and had 
denied having done so. The matron said she was a most 
hardened and wicked child ; she had been in the institution 
for three months ; up to that time she had usually spent her 
nights on door- steps ! Poor little creature, I thought; after 
all your evil training and hard life, your little heart is 
softer than the matron's. 

A kind heart, gentle mariner and voice, are to my mind 
indispensable qualifications u» those who undertake the care 



176 THE VOICE. 

and edacal/ion of young people. Unless a child can dare to rHow 
its failings and ask questions, it may appear good and pass 
every standard, but it will go out into the world morally 
weak, possessing nothing worthy of the name of education in 
its true and highest sense. 

The fiercest animals have been known to grow calm on 
hearing the voice of a person who had been kind to them. 
Horses are so gentle and affectionate that they can be perfectly 
managed if addressed gently. I'or that reason it is flaid that 
women ought to t^ke care of them. A groom's work is 
not hard compared with the work that many women have 
to do. 

A great many vertebrate animals have the wonderful little 
instrument in the windpipe called the larynx, which makes 
the voice. It is a most delicate organ, and if the throat is 
forced into an unnatural position, it is soon injured. This is 
easily seen in the case of horses. Some spirited horses 
naturally hold their heads up, and arch their necks. Ladies 
and gentlemen admire horses that do this, and try to make 
their horses do the same by putting on a bearing-rein, which 
fastens the head back. By pressing the head back in this 
way the shape of the larynx is quite altered. Here is a picture 
of the larynx of a horse that had been injured by a bearing- 
rein, and here is one as it ought to be, taken from the 'Illus- 
trated Horse Doctor,' by May hew. In this cramped position 
some of the muscles cannot work ; they therefore grow weak, 
and at last die away. The opening between the vocal cords 
grows small, so that a proper quantity of air cannot get down 
into the lungs. But horses have to go quickly, and they 
therefore require all the air- they can get, so that whatever 
prevents their getting as much air as possible distresses them 
very much. If you look at a horse that is dragging a cart up 
a hill, you will see that it stretches out its neck, as it does 
nearly all its work by the help of the muscles in its shoulders. 
A. bearing-rein entirely prevents the use of these muscles, and 
must cause great suffering to the horse. From this cruel 
practice of using the bearing-rein, the horse after a time 
breathes very badly, and then it is called a 'roarer.' The 
very people who have caused it so much suffering and have 



THE BEAEING-EEIN. 



177 



spoilt it, often sell it to be worked very liard in a tram-car, 
cab, or cart. Surely this is not the way to treat a faithful 
servant whom we have ruined. I am glad to say that carters 
and cabmen very rarely use a bearing-rein. We must hope 
that gentlemen and ladies will soon become equally wise and 
humane. Some coachmen make their horses go by jerking 
the reins continually. This practice, like that of suddenly 
pulling up when they are going at a great speed, hardens the 
mouth and injures the throat. 

A Fig. 37. 





A is the pictui-e of the larjnx of a horse in a healthy state, b is the larjiix of a horse 
after it has been driven with a bearing-nin. 

I trust that it will soon be considered necessary that all 
those who have the care of children and animals should first 
^understand physiology and the laws of health. Rich and 
poor people are now so ignorant about these two subjects, that 
they think any uneducated boy or girl may have the charge 
of a child or dumb animal. 

Things provided for the Lecture. 
Marshall's diagram of the larynx. 
A small toy harp. 

Questions for the Twenty fourth Lecture. 

1. Write all you can remember about the organ by "which the voice is 

made. 

2. Why is it cruel to drive a horse with a bearing-rein ? 



178 THE TREATMENT OF ANIMALS. 

LECTURE XXV. 

THE TliEATMEyr OF AXIMALS. 

DuRixa these lectures you have seen that vertebrate animals 
have mai-y organs similar to those of human beings, and 
therefore require very kind treatment and care. 

When we go next week to the Museum, I will first show 
you tlio animals that have a backbone and a bony sknll, 
of which I have told you there are four great tj'pes. First, 
I\lamma!s, tliose animals which suckle their young; then 
biids, next reptiles, and lastly fishes. Between these last two 
stand the smaller group of Amphibia. The elepliant is the 
strongest, and perhaps the most intelligent of all known 
animals. You must lead all you can about this huge vege- 
tarian, for you will remember that ho eats nothing but vegetable 
food. If I liad time I should like to tell yon a great many 
interesting onecdotcs that would prove how clever he is. The 
most wonderful part of an elephant is its trunk; though the 
trunk only looks like a largo rocnd pipe of flesh, the elephant 
can with this organ pick up a single blade of gjass, pluck 
flowers one by one, and then tie them up into a bouquet, just 
as well as you or I could do, v>'ho have two hands and ten 
fingers. It is said that the cleverest animals are tho.se that 
have the finest sense of touch. The elej)hant is unlike the 
dog, who forgives his enemies. If anyone offends him, he will 
not rest till he has been revenged. A man once promised an 
elej)hant that he would give him some beer to drink if he 
would push a heav.y load up a hill. When the work was 
done, the man, instead of fulfilling his promise, only laughed. 
Directly the elephant saw this, he killed the man. 

Dogs are the most faithful and affectionate of all animals ; 
they will die sooner than forsake their master; they are also 
very coui-ageous. A small dog has been known to attack 
a tigor, and make it run away. You will find endless inter- 
esting sto!-ies about dogs, horses, and cats in natural history 
books. ^ Cats, too, are very clever and aflectionate. I cannot 

' Seo esp ciMlly a book called 'Man and Eeast,' by the Rev. J. G, 
Wood. 



CRUELTY TO ANIMALS. 179 

think why people are often so crnel to them. It is thought 
that they only love places and not people, but this is a great 
mistake. 

All animals were made for some wise purpose, and it is 
intended that they should enjoy life. A great many people 
seem to think that animals were only made for their selfish 
amusement. 

I think it very cruel to keep pets ; that is, to shut up 
animals or birds who ought to be constantly moving from 
place to place, just for the pleasure of looking at them occa- 
sionally, or hearing them sing for a few minutes during the day. 

I hope ere long that no person will be allowed to carry 
wild animals all over the country in shows, called travelling 
menageries, that arc now to be seen at nearly every feast or 
fair. It is dreadful to think of the sufferings these animals 
must undergo from being shut up in small cages ; but this is 
nothing to the tortures they are put through in order to make 
them entirely change their nature, and bear any amount of 
brutffl treatment. I cannot think how men and women can 
bear to see a woman put her head into, the mouth of a lion 
or tiger ; and to watch poor animals being teased and beaten 
until they are nearly driven mad. . We learnt from a sad 
case that was tried in Leeds last ytar, how inhumanly animals 
are tortured before they can be made to bear all I have de- 
scribed, and to jump through rings which are all blazing with 
fire. The animals who were niade to do this last horrid feat 
were hyaenas belonging to ' Edmonds' travelling menagerie.' 
Surely these performances are almost as disgraceful to the 
spectators as to the performers. Sad "to say, little children 
are often taken to see these dreadful sights. 

Biid-catchers have many cruel practices ; amongst others, 
they sometimes put out the eyes of birds in order to maka 
them sing, and keep hundreds of them packed together in 
tiny cages just big enough to. hold them. Birds are accus- 
tomed to find shade in the woods during the hot part of the 
day ; instead of that you find them placed in ca^es which are 
hung in windows where the blazing sun shines upon them for 
hours, and they are to be seen panting for air. Pigeon-shoot- 
ing is a most cruel sport. This sport used to be carried on 

N 2 



180 THE TREATMENT OF ANIMALS. 

until last year in the Leeds Royal Park, and is still carried on 
in grand places near London. Pigeons arc the most domestic 
and affectionate of all birds. People, ^vhen speaking of a 
gentle person, often say she is as gentle as a dove (a dove is 
the common wild pigeon). At a pigeon match men stand at 
a certain distance from little boxes, in each of Avhich a pigeon 
is put. When the men who are going to shoot have got 
their guns pointed ready, the boxes are opened, so that the 
pigeons can fly away. Very often they are too tame, and 
will not move. In order to make them fly the feathers are 
plucked from the breast, so that the pain they will then suffer 
may make them fly. Pins are stuck into them for the 
same purpose. On September 22, 1874, my brother-in- 
law, j\Ir, George Bnckton, saw the following case: 
' On the 22nd ult., abont five o'clock in the afternoon, 
Mr. George Buckton, North Hill, was in his garden near 
the gates of Roundhay Park, when he heard an explo- 
sion, and looking around he saw a pigeon flying over the 
garden, and noticed flashes of light proceeding from its' tail, 
and simultaneously accompanied by a loud crack. It then 
strnck him that fireworks were attached to the bird's tail, 
and looking over the garden w^all he saw the two defendants, 
Elijah Walls and John Hunt. He and his gardener followed 
them, and the defendants were apprehended at the gates of 
Roundhay Park. In a box which they carried were found 
two pigeons with crackers tied to their tails. The two 
defendants, who were boys, stated that the other defendants. 
Walls and Heaton, had asked them to let off the pigeons at 
five minutes' intervals. Inspector Peet was communicated 
with, and found all the defendants together. The elder 
defendants expressed sorrow for what they had done, and 
were each fined Ss. and costs. The younger defendants were 
dismissed with a caution.' 

A lady friend of mine who lives close to the Royal Park, 
after hearing a constant firing for two or three hours, put on 
her bonnet and went out to get away from this unpleasant 
noise, as she knew that at every shot a poor little pigeon was 
either being killed or injured. She met a man coming out 
of the park, and asked him how many pigeons had been 



CRUELTY TO ANIMALS. 



181 



sliot ;, he thonglit about 300. ' Wliat is done with them all ? ' 
she said. ' I'll show you,' he replied ; and putting his hand 
into his pocket he pulled out two pigeons which, were half 
alive ; his pockets were fall, and no doubt the rest were in 
the same state. No maji can call this sport ; it is only cruelty 
and butchery. 

Rabbit-hunting is equally a very cruel and unmanly 
amusement. Rabbits are naturally very timid creatures. 
They are kept in a dark place until the minute they arc 
wanted, and then let loose into a small space, with dogs 
ready to fly after them. The light so dazzles them that they 
are caught directly, and torn to pieces. 

Birds are of the greatest use to man. They eat insects 
and the eggs and grubs of insects which injure our fruit trees, 
kill our crops of wheat, barley, and oats, the vine, and other 
plants. In an exhibition in the garden of the Tuilci^ies in 

Fio. 38. 




Invertebrate, a is the heart, h the kings or gills,' b and c arteries. 

Paris I saw last summer a largo collection of stuffed birds i:i 
glass cases, with a bit of the tree that they kept healthy 
fastened round their necks. The insects and eggs that they 
killed were also shown. 

Sea-o-nlls are birds that live in the holes of rocks by the 
sea. They often save ships from being shipwrecked because 
sailors can hear their screams when the fog is too thick for 
them to see even the light from a lighthouse. A few years 
ago it was the custom to shoot great numbers of IheFO birds 
to trim ladies' hats with ; but so many shipwrecks occurred, 



182 



THE TREATMENT OF ANIMALS. 



that a law was made to forbid their being killed at certain 
times. 

So far I have only told you abont animals which have a 
backbone and a bony skull, called vertebrate animals. I am 
now going to tell you a little about the fonr types of animals 
that have neither a backbone nor a bony skull, called Inver- 
tebrate. Here are pictures of them, represented by a lobster 
an oyster, a starfish, and an amoeba. 

First there is the lobster ; yon see it has neither a back- 
bone nor a bony fckull. It has a great many legs that are all 
jointed. 

A bee has the same kind of body and legs. All 
insects — such as the bee, butteiflj^, cockchafer, grasshopper, 

Fig. 39. 




An Insect. 

or flea — are made in the same way, and are called jointed ani- 
mals, as they have a number of joints. We owe a great deal 
to insects. For instance, there is the honey we get from bees. 
All poor people who live in the country ought to keep bee- 
hives. In an answer which T received from one of you it was 
said that only animals which have a backbone and a bony 
skull had nerves and conld feel pain. This picture (fig. 39) 
will show you that even an insect has nerves which spread all 
over its body, so that it must be capable of feeling pain. 

Here is the picture of an oyster, which represents the 
second type of animals without a backbone and a bony 
skull. They have soft bodies, nerves, and several organs. 



INVEETEBRATE ANIMALS. 



183 



Their bodies are commonly covered with shells that are either 
divided into two parts, like thos3 of an oyster and a cockle, 
or with shells that are all in one, like a periwinkle. 

I shall now say something to you about the wonderful 
little animals that belong to the two lowest types. You see 
this picture of a creature that looks like a star. It is called a 

Fig. 40. 




An Oj-ster. 



Fio. 41. 



starfish. There are a great many different kinds, which have 
most curious shapes and colours. They are found both in 
fresh and salt water. If you ever go to 
Blackpool you can see plenty of them. Besides 
the starfish there are other kinds of very small 
animals, called zoophytes. Creatures of this 
type Lave only one organ, a stomach, placed 
in the centre. Sometimes there are little holes 
or rooms all round this stomach. The walls 
of these little rooms are made of a stony sub- 
stance by the little jelly-fish. Sometimes 
these creatures live together in groat numbers, and form them- 
selves into most curious and beautiful shapec-, like the branches 
of trees. When you go with me to the Museum I will 
show you a beautiful collection of glass representations of 




starfish. 



184 IHE TREATMENT OF ANIMALS. 

them. Their stems are made of coral or lime, or of some 
horny matter. There are large coral islands in the Pacific 
Ocean that have been made daring tens of thousands of 
years l3y these little animals. The red coral beads that aro 
made into necklaces are made by another kind of jelly-fish or 
zoophyte. 

One of the lowest types of life is the amoeba — our old 
friend that I showed you at my second lecture, and which I 
told you was one of the most simple forms of life. It has no 
organs, but can put ont an arm-like or a leg-like process when 
it wants to seize food or move along. Here is a picture of an 
amoeba putting out its limb-like process (fig. 42). Some of 
this kind are so very small that they can only be seen through 
a microscope, and are covered over with a beautiful little sheD 
that is either made of lime or chalk. They have a long name 
— Foraminifera. They, like the animals which make the coral 
islands, live together in large colonies, and after tens of 
thousands of years their shells have gi'own np into rocks or 
cliffs. The white cliffs of Dover have been made by these 
little creatures. The sponge we use to wash ourselves with is 
made by a kind of amoeba. Here is a piece.' They, too, live 
together in large numbers, and when they die their frames — 
which are made of this spongy substance — are left. These 
holes in the sponge are the places the animals live in. There 
are a great many different kinds of sponges, which you will 
see on Tuesday. Even the amoeba must have some sort of 
feeling, as is shown by the way in which it catches its prey. 
Directly any organic substance touches it, the mass of jelly 
called an amoeba spreads itself over the object, and covers it 
entirely over, and so takes it into its inside. After a little 
time a small part of the food that the amoeba conld not digest 
is squeezed through the jelly, and comes out perhaps through 
the side opposite to the one it entered. 

I hope, after all I have told you, yon will be able to write 
answers to the qnestions which I shall give j^ou at the end of 
this lecture. I am anxious to tell yon on what part of its 
body an animal ought to be struck when it is necessary that 
it should be slaughtered. No animal can live when its neck 

' I showed a large piece of sponge. 



INVERTEBRATE ANIMALS. 185 

is broken. The limbs sometimes move, but the animal is quite 
nnconscious. 

Ignorant people will always be superstitions — that is, 
believe any silly thing that they hear. A gentleman not long 
ago saw a crowd of people on Hounslow Heath colleeted 
round a snake which two men were beating. He asked them 
why they did not kill the poor creature at once. ' Wo are 
snake-killers,' they said, ' and know all about it ; it would be 
no use to try and kill a snake before the sun goes down.' *Give 
me the stick,' said the gentleman, ' and I will show you that 
the sun has nothing to do with it.' With this he hit the snako 

FiQ. 42. 




Amoeba. 

a hard blow on the back of its neck, just where the head joins 
the spine. The body of the snake continued to wriggle about ; 
and though the gentleman knew that the animal could no 
longer feel, and would soon cease to move, still, to satisfy the 
crowd, he struck the snake all down the spine ; after doing 
this it was still, and they were satisfied that it was dead. 

It is dreadful to think of the cruelty that goes on in 
slaughter-houses. Some butchers think it is unnecessary to 
give food and drink to animals who are going to be killed in a 
day or two, or to keep them in clean stables. We pay very 
dearly for this cruelty, because the meat of animals so treated 
is not good. Isrnorance and cruelty are very extravagant 
things. I do not wonder people become vegetarians when 
tliey know all that animals have to endure from long journeys 
and brutal drovers, before they are slaughtered by ignorant 
and cruel butchers, or their laub. , 



180) THE TREATMENT On ANIMALS. 

Yon must read all tlie books you can find on natnral 
history. I have written down the names pf sorae, whicli your 
masters and mistresses will lend you. When yonr parents 
have a holida}-, I hope they will often take 3'ou to the Museum, 
for then you will be able to tell them all you know about the 
collection of animals you will see there. I am very sorry to 
say good-bye to you, for you have all been so polite and atten- 
tive that I have looked forward with great pleasure to seeing 
you every week. In a fe^v years you will all be gaining your 
.livelihood in different v/ays — as labourers and artisans, 
teachers, nurses, cooks, grooms, butchers, and emigrants; and 
some of you may become rich men, and become masters your- 
selves. Whatever your calling in life may be, I hope the 
information 3-ou have gained during the last five months may 
prove valuable to you. I have desired above all things to 
prove to you that, owing to our ignorance, we bring upon 
ourselves and tho.^e about us a great deal of the sicknes;^, 
sorrow, and suffering which spoil this beautiful world. It is 
therefore our first duty to study and understand the laws of 
God, to obey them, and to be just, kind, and humane to all 
He has created, especially to young children and dumb ani- 
mals, who are weak and defenceless, and depend upon us for 
protecjtion and care. 



APPENDICES. 



ArPEXDIX I. 

The ccntents of this Appendix were printed in tlie form of a little 
tract, a copy of which was <riven to every scholar who attended my 
lecturea. My hearers were thus enabled to recall some of the facts on 
which 1 had laid special stress. 

The infonuation here given will be found in an expanded form in 
the lectures which treat of food and cookini^ ; but the tract is reprinted 
in the hope that it may suprgest to any ladies who may undertake the 
same work a simple method of communicating iuiportant knowledge. 
I may add that the tract was gratefully received, and those who were 
not present eagerly sent to ask me for copies. 

FOOD TABLE. 

A human body which weighs 154 Ibs.^ or 11 stones, ought to 
have about — 

111 lbs. of v.-ater — 90 lbs. of this water is oxygen, the rest is hydro- 
gen. 
] 2 lbs. of fat (body-warmer). 
24i lbs. of albumen and fibrin (flesh-formers). 
6j lbs. of phosphate of lime. 
j lb. of f-oda, potash, and magnesia ashes. 

Oxygen is the chief means by which the food we eat is changed 
into at least 40 different substances to nourish our ditlerent organs. 
AVhen we are in health the active parts of these organs ought to be 
completely changed in about 40 days. AVhen oxygen meets with 
carbon in any one of the 40 substances mentioned, and combines with 
it in the body, heat is formed. Oxygen purifies the blood. 



DODY-WAUMEUS 


FLESH-FOUMEI-^ 


Animal 


Vegetable 


Animal 


Vegetable 


Butter 


Sugar 


INIeat 


Flour 


Dripping 


Treacle 


]•i^h 


Oatmsal 


Suet 


Starch, in Bread 


I'oultry 


Riee 


Oil 


and all Vege- 


Game 


Peas 


Lard 


tables 


E'^'^s 


Barley, &c. 




Oil 


Cheese 





1 8b 



APPENDIX I. 



The following salts and many others are found in the Wood 
therefore food must be eaten that contains them : — 

Common Salt Carbonate of Potash Salts of Magnesia 

Carbonate of Soda „ Linie Phosphate of Iron 

Phosphate of Lime. 

Bread contains a great deal of this latter salt. 

Potash prevents scurvy. It is in all fresh vegetables, most in 
potatoes ; in all fruit, most in lemons. 

New milk is a body-warmer and a flesh-former, and contains every- 
thing the bod}' requires. Digests in two hours. 

There are contained in one pint of — 

Cows MilJc. Mothers Milk. 

Water 1 3 oz. 1 4 oz. 

Flesh-former . . . . . ^ ,, less. 

Body-warmer . . . •Ho more. 

Phosphate of Lime, "j 

Potash, and other }• . . . J „ same. 

Salts . . . ) 

The two principal vegetable flesh-formers are bread and oatmeal. 

Time to digest. 
Hours. 

3^ 2 lbs. of bread cost or/., and contain 3 oz. flesh-former, 1 lb. 

4.^ oz. body-warmer, ^ oz. ashes. 8 oz. water. 
3 J 2 lbs. of oatmeal cost 6(7., and contain 4 oz, flesh-former, 24 oz. 

body-warmer, ^ oz,. ashes, 3 oz. water (uncooked). 

The principal animal flesh-forniors are beef, mutton, and rich 
cheese. 

Time to digest. 
Uoure. 
3^ 2 lbs. of beef or mutton cost Is. lOrZ.. and cont.iin 7 oz, of flesh- 
former, 4^ oz, of body-warmer, \ oz. ashes, 20 oz. water. 
Component parts of rich Cheddar cheese, in 2 lbs. — flesh-former, 9 J 
oz. ; fat, 9| oz. ; ashes, ] ^ oz, ; water, ^ oz. 

Flour, oatmeal, ground rice, ground peas — 1 lb. of any one of these 
vegetable flesh-formers will give a man as much strength as .3 lbs. of 
lean beef, or 3 lbs. of veal, or 3 lbs. of ham boiled, or nine bottles of 
Bass's pale ale, or six bottles of Guinness's stout, lOr/, per tottle. 
There is also as much nourishment in 1 lb. of double Gloucester cheese 
as there is in the above quantities of animal food and drink. 

A full-grown man requires daily 10 oz. of body- warmers and 5 oz. 
of flesh-formers. AVater and ashes are not included in these quanti- 
ties. These 15 oz. of solid food can be got either from animal or 
vegetable food. But some vegetables contain a smaller proportion of 



FOODS. 



L89 



solid matter, because they have so much more water ; we must there- 
fore eat more of them. They digest more slowly than meat. When 
we eat dry food, such as bread, oatmeal, &c., we require to take some 
liquid, as tea or milk. Masters, when they shut up dumb animals 
and feed them on dry food, such as linseed, rapeseed, lentils. Sec, 
ought to give them a larger quantity of water than they have in 
the fields. 

The following list will show how much water there is in animal 
and vegetable foods : — 







(Sixteen ounces make one pound.) 




1 1 


O.VE 




§5 


Contains of 




Ik 


Pound of 


^^ 


— 












W" 








Body-warmers 1 Flesh-fomiers 


Water 


Ashes 


3^ 


BnEAD . 




nd. 


abfiut 10 oz. 


about 2 oz. 


about 4 oz. 


about i oz. 


4 


Meat . 




lid. 




3 


„ 3 „ 


„ 10 M 


H. 


Cheese . 




lid. 




4i„ 


,, 5i „ 


« 5J „ 


1 ». 


2 


Milk . 








, n„ 


-, i„ 


„ 14 „ 




-' 


EOGS . 

BurrEH 

SUKT . 

DRn'PixQ 
Oils . . 
Lard . 
Loaf Suga 


R . 






14., 


.. 2i„ 
None 
A trace 

None 


,, 12 „ 
„ 2 „ 
„ 2 „ 

!1 2 ", 
„ 2 „ 
» 2 ., 


1 


1 


AltUOWROO 


r . 






. 14 „ 


:; 


,, 2 „ 





DRY FOODS. 
(Grains, Seeds, &c.) 
AVlieat Rice 

Oats Semolina (costs 80^. per lb.) 

Peas Macaroni „ Sd. ,. 

In one pound of these there are about 

H oz. of water. 
12 oz. fat-formers. 
2 to 3 oz. flesh-formers. 
I oz. bulls and minerals. 

Chiefly given to feed Dumb Animals. 

Linseed Grass 

Rapeseed Lentils 

Clover. 



The last is the most nutritious of all grains. It is gi'ound, and 
Bold under the name of Revalenta Arabica. Unground, it is very good 
put into soups. 



190 



APPENDIX 


I. 


WET FOODS. 


(All Green Vegetables and Fruits.) 


Potatoes 




Rhul.arb 


Tnrnips 




Apples 


Cnrrots 




ran ires 


Onions 


1 


Goosel jerries 


Lettuce and all kinds 




Currants, &c. 


of Salad 


1 


Lemons. 



In one pound there are about 

12 oz. to 14 oz. of water. 

2 oz. fat-formers. 

1 oz. flesh formers. 

^ oz. salts and minerals. 

Macaroni and semolina are most nourisbinj^ foods. They are both 
chiefly made from that part of Avheat which makes flesh, nniscle, and 
bone. A tablespoonful of semolina will thicken a pint of milk: it 
makes a deliciou<5 puddinir. One ounce of macaroni will make a g"ood 
puddinp: when boiled in milk. When boiled in water, it is very jrood 
with clieese, trrated or scraped fine over the top, and browned eitlier 
be 'ore the fire or in the oven, with pepper and salt. Rice and maca- 
roni can be eaten witli meat, ^nivy, or with sweets, such as treaclc; 
stiirar, See. Cook them exactly as you would cook a potato or any 
fresh veii:etable ; put them into boilinj^ water, and let them simmer 
until quite tender. Don't boil any kind of food. Simmerinfi takes a 
lontrer time to make the food tender, but when it is done all the p-ood 
thiu<rs will have been kept in it. Never wash macaroni. Corn-flour, 
like arrowroot, is very poor food, particularly for children, as it makes 
very little bone and muscle, and only makes fjit. 

The stomach dipests a variety of food better than only one kind. 
Nature intended us to mix foods together ; that is the reason we eat — 

Vegctalik Food. Animal Food. 

Bread . . . with . . . Cheese 

Broad . .' . „ . . . Butter 

Bread ... „ ... Milk 

Potatoes ... „ ... Meat 

There is very little fat in fowls, therefore we eat bacon with them. 
There is very little fat in veal, therefore we eat ham with it. Salt 
meat has had the juices and ashes taken out by the salt, therefore we 
must eat cabbages and bacon, or potatoes and bacon together. 

People eat a great deal of animal fat in cold countries, because 
^y want heat. There is more oxygen in cold air than in hot air tc 



FOODS. 



191 



attack the carbon. In hot countries vegetable fats are more used. 
There is much more Ilydroj^en and Oxyg^en in vegetable than in 
animal fats, and therefore they are more easily dijrested. Fruit con- 
tains a o^reat deal of sugrar and water. We perspire more in hot 
countries and hot weather, so require more water. 

A child's digestion is more delicate than that of a grown-up 
person ; therefore children like vegetable fat- formers, such as sugar or 
treacle, better than animal fat, and they are better for them. Sugar 
also helps to dissolve the ashes that make bone, and purines the blood. 

Hot food is more digestible than cold. 

A great quantity of hot liquids taken daily, particularly of tea, 
is bad for the process of digestion, and tends greatly to weaken the 
power of the stomach. 

In one pound of either tea, coffee, cocoa or chocolate (which are 
both the same thing, as they come from the same berry), are to be 
found the followiu<r substances : — 



Tea. 





oz. 


GRAINS. 




oz. 


OUAl.N> 


Water 


. 


3o0 


Sugar 


. 


211 


Theine 


. 


210 


I'.it 


. 


2S0 


Cusi'ine 


. 2 


170 


Tannic acid 


. 4 


87 


Aromatic oil 


. 


6-2 


Wuo.iy libre . 


. 3 


87 


Gain . 


. 2 


385 


Mineral matter 


. 


850 



COFFLE. 







oz. 


GRAINS. 




oz. 


CRAIXS 


Water 


. 


1 


407 


Caifoic acid (with 


pot- 




Sugar 


. 


1 


17 


ash) . 


. 


280 


Fat 


. 


1 


402 


Gum 


. ! 


192 


Caseino 


. 


2 


35 


Woody fibre . 


. 6 


262 


CHtTeine, 


or theine 


G 


122 


Saline matter . 


. 1 


31 


Aromatic oil 





H 









Cocoa, ou Chocolate. 





oz. 


GRAINS. 




oz. 


GRAINS. 


Water 


. 


350 


Starch 


. 1 


63 


Albumen or gluten 


. 3 


85 


Woody fibre 


. 


280 


Theobromine 


. 1 


140 


Cohjuring matter 


. 


140 


Cocoii-bucter 


. 8 





Mineral matter . 





280 


Giua 


. 


4^ 









192 APPENDIX I. 



rOODS MOST SUITABLE I OR HEALTH. 

Our Body-Warmers 

Are "butter, dripping, suet, any kind of oil or fat, and also sup^ar and 
starch. 

If you lived on these alone, you would be pined. 

Our Flesh-Formers 

Are bread, oatmeal, and all kinds of flour, eggs, cheese, and meat. 

If you lived entirely on these foods, you would have scurvy and 
skin diseases. 

Oatmeal requires to be very well cooked. Cooks as a rule do not 
give it a suiKcient time. Porridge is best made of the coarsely-ground 
Scotch oatmeal. — Mix two tablespoonfuls of it w-ith a small tea-cup of 
cold water till it is all one thickness, then pour a pint of boiling 
water, and keep stirring it frequently for forty minutes over a fire or 
on a hot hob ; it is then fit to eat, but will be much more digestible if 
it is kept simmering for a much longer time. Should the porridge 
become toj thick a little w^ater can be added. It should be served in 
a hot soup-plate and milk added. This is the most nourishing food a 
man or child can eat. In some, parts of Scotland the people eat a 
preparation of oatmeal called brose or stirabout. Boiling water is 
poured upon the oatmeal, which is well stirred, and then eaten without 
any more cooking. This is a most indigestible food, and causes a com- 
plaint called pyrosis. 

Potash ivill prevent our having Scurvy. 

The potash bought at a druggist's shop won't serve. You must 
eat food in which it is contained. All green vegetables have a little ; 
also ripe fruit, oranges and lemons particularly. Potatoes and all 
floury vegetables are nearly all starch ; therefore, let the water be 
boiling when you put them in the pan, then the skin hardens directly, 
and all the potash is kept in. Dried grains, such as split peas, &c., 
must be soaked in cold water (rice in milk) for several hours. 

Lim,e and Phospho7its. 

These two substances, which form the hard part of our bones, are 
to be found in the largest quantities in bread and oatmeal. No doctor 
or druggist can give you these mixed as nature mixes them in these 
two kinds of food. 

An infant cannot digest bread until it has cut its teeth. 



FOODS. 193 

MUk 

Is tbe only out* food that contains all the forty thin^ that can 
nourish the body. It is the only safe food for an infant until it is 
a year old. Every child ought to take a great deal of it daily, in 
puddiags, with porridge at breakfast, and at tea-time, until it is eight 
years old, or it will be in danger of having rickets or soft bones, for 
the bones are not hard under that age. An infant fed on cream, 
which is fat, would be pined; for it is only a body-warmer. 
Skimmed milk is also a flesh-former. New milk is both a body-warmer 
and a flesh-former. New milk from a cow or goat is the only proper 
Ibod for an infant until it is about eight months old, when it cannot 
iiave its mother's milk. The milk must be warmed, and a little water 
added should it prove too rich for the stomach. 

Nnurishing Soup for Children and Wwking-Men. 

Soup is good food for old and young; first, because 'it is a warm 
dish, and secondly, because it can be made to contain the 
three kinds of food we must eat to nourish our bodies, viz., body- 
warmers, flesh-formers, and minei-als. An immense number of soups 
can be made of animal and vegetable food without butcher's meat. 
Dripping, bacou, milk, or eggs will do as well, as they are all animal 
s<3ods. The first of the following receipts will make a good soup for 
childien and working-men; it is made with butcher's me&t. The 
second is also most nourishing ; it has no butcher's meat. 

liRST IlECEirx. — Some meat (beef is best) should be cut into 
pieces and stewed for two hours. Then add to the meat and broth 
ilour of any kind to thicken it, and put as much milk as you can. Let 
it stew for an hour, and flavour with salt. 

Second Rix::eipt. (Soup without butcher's meat.) — 1 quart of 
water ; ^ gill of green pe-as or split peas (the latter take much longer 
to cook) ; two potatoes, old ones of yesterday are the best ; 1 onion ; 
] head of lettuce ; 1 sprig of mint ; 4 teaspoonful of sugar (sugar keeps 
the colour of the peas and vegetables) ; 1 oz. of dripping ; 1 table- 
.spoonful of either flour or oatmeal ; pepper and salt to taste. When 
it has simmered until all is quite tender, add | gill of milk. If this 
eoup is made with green peas or any fresh vegetables, it will be quite 
ready in half~an-hour. 

Soyer, the ".elebrated cook, almost always used brown sugar and » 
little vinegar in making his soup. Soup is a most economical food 
and digestible if bread is eaten with it. 

When we make soup or beef-tea, we want to get all the juices and 
ashes out in the water ; therefore cut the meat up into small pieces, 
«»nd put a little salt on it, and let it stand in cold water one hour or 
!;;ore. Don't let it quite boil, only simmer, for the steam carries off 

o 



194 APPENDIX I. 

the liavours and juices. An equal wein-ht of meat and water makes 
vervstronjir beel'-tea. A person fed on the stron^jest beef- tea, or on 
any Idml of extracts or essence of meat, would soon be pined to death ; 
i\\oy only form (lesh. Flour, rice, pearl bai'ley, cream, egjxs, or new 
mi.k ou<rht to be added. 

When Ave roast meat we want to keep in all its juices, there ^'om 
we must harden the outside skin by placing the joint near a hot firo 
for tlie first ten minutes, then it ought to be roasted very gradually by 
removing it to a much greater distance, as meat quickly cooked is never 
good. 'When meat is baked, there ought to be a ventilator in the oven 
to let out the steam. 

To keep the juices in boiled meat, place it in boiling water for ten 
minutes, and then cook it very gradually. 

If meat caimot be got, cheese is as nourishing for people who work 
hard or take umch exercise, and, if well masticated, is not dillicuit to 
digest, as soiue people think it is. 

Talle of the Constituents of the Juices of Flesh. 



Albmnrn I Uutyric neid 

C;isfiiio I Conmiou salt 

B.irciiio 1 ]\o(l colouring matter 

Lactic acid . Salts 



JMore potash than socla 
Osniaz.oino, flavouring 
matter 



The Patent Kovwcgian Self-actinrj CooJung Ap-paratits. 

The following are the directions for the use of the Patent Xor* 
wegian Self-acting Cooking Apparatus: — Put the joint of meat, or 
other viands intended to be cookeil, with the boilii^g water or other 
tiuid, IS the case may be, into the saucepan of the Apparatus, and 
place it on the (ire. Allow the boiling to continue for a quarter to 
half an hour, taking care that the lid of the saucepan is firmly down ; 
then take the saucepan oil" the lire and put it, without opening it, 
into the Appanitus, Cover it carefully with the cushion, and fasten 
the lid of the c;ise lirmly down. In this state the cooking will com- 
plete itself in rather longer time than the ordinary mode takes, say 
from .3 to G hours nccordhuf 1o the meat to be cooked. 

The time required ior boiling must not be reckoned from the 
moment the liquid begins to sinuner, but from the time strong jets of 
8tea;iJ are seen escaping from underneath the lid. 

Care must be tiken not to squeeze too large a piece of meat into .-i 
tniall saucepan, thereby leaving too little space for the necessary cold 
water, and not to use a large saucepan for a small quantity of ft>od. 
'] he saucepan shoidd never bo less than two-thirds tilled either with 
food or water. 



SELF-ACTING COOKING APPARATUS. 



195 



If an Apparatus with two saucepans be used, it may at any tirao 
bs opened while cooking is going on in one pan, to add another with 
boiled-up water or food, but the box must not be left open for moro 
than a minute or two. 

If required to cook in one saucepan only, and the apparatus holds 
two or more, till the saucepans not in use with boiling water. 

The bottom of the saucepan should be greased before being put on 
the lire, and wiped with a cloth previously to being placed in the 
Apparatus. 

N.B. — The food must be cooked in the pans belonging to the 
Apparatus, and when used for boiling, the water is not to be poured 
away when the pan is taken off the lire. 




When it is dgsired to keep meat or other food, which has been 
previously cooked, hot, use one of the saucepans fitted with a jacket, 
which should be filled with boiling water, and the dry chamber of the 
Apparatus used for the hot meat. Any kind of viands may be kept 
hot for hours in this manner, and when eaten will be found quite as 
palatable as if only just cut from the joint. 



HOW TO DRESS A SCALD OR BURN. 



Everybody should know how to manage a scald or a burn. Doctors 
say that the most distressing cases that are brought to an infirmary 
are those caused by scalds and burns, because the parents have not 
understood how to treat them. I once called at a house where a little 
girl had burnt her arm. The mother showed me the place, and loreolf 
the linen rag, saying, It ought to be better, for I wash it regular 
twice a day.' 



I 



196 APPENDIX r. 

The air must be kept out instantly, as the germs that fly in the air 
will settle in the raw surface. Cover the place all over with a piece 
of linen rag that has been dipped in any sweet oil, or melted fat that 
has no salt in it ; then wrap it up with a good deal of cotton wool, or 
a piece of old blanket; don't remove these for seven days, as a new 
skin will form in that time, and then dress again in the same way. 
If the skin is not broken and there is no blister, you may put on cold 
bandages or place the limb in cold water, and so keep out the air. 
The great tiling is to keep out the air and not to break the skin. If 
the scald or burn is a bad one, send immediately for a doctor. 

HOW TO TREAT A rERSON APrAREXTL^^ DROWNED 

The first thing is to try and bring back the breathing by turning the 
fp.ce down for a moment, so that the water may run out and the tongue 
fall into its place. Draw out the tongue as far as possible, and keep it 
out by tying a string over it and round the jaw. If no string is at 
hand, a piece tora off a pocket-handkerchief will answer the purpose. 
If the tongue falls bade, it covers the windpipe through which the air 
passes to the lungs. When the tongue is safe, you may place the 
person on his back; take care the shoulders and head are raised a little. 
Lift the arms up from the side and pass them down again, to open the 
chest, drawing them well up by the side of the head and pressing them 
forcibly against the chest when you bring them down. When the 
breathing has returned, dry clothes and warm things can be put on. 
Plenty of fresh air must get into the lungs ; bad close air thickens the 
blood and prevents it from circulating. People must not crowd round 
tlio patient. It is dangerous to use great heat suddenly, such as a hot 
bath. Ilubbing and warmth should be continued for two hours at least. 

DIRECTIONS FOR BATHING*. 

If people are strong enough, a cold bath should be taken every day 
Avhen the weather is warm. "When the cold water touches the surface 
of the body the shock drives the blood to the heart, and makes the 
heart beat quicker, and send the warm blood back to the surface of 
the body. I told you that there were an immense number of blood- 
vessels and nerves in the second skin ; the warm, Iresh blood flushes 
and stimulates these, and this is why we feel a glow all over the body 
after a bath, and are stronger and fresher. If a cold wet sponge or 
towel is rubbed all over the body, and then the skin is made perfectly 
dry by using a rough, dry towel, the same good will be done as if the 
person had taken a cold bath. It is very unhealthy to allow me body 
to remain the least damp. Before a person takes a regular bath 
he must be careful not to enter the water directly after a meal, 
because the organs of digestion are then busy, and want all the waim 



HINTS FOR EMERGENCIES. 197 

bkfod to help tliem to do their work. Thnt is why the siirl'ace of the 
body feels cold after dinuer. It is dangerous to enter the sea or any 
bath when the person is cold and tired. About two hours after a 
meal is a grood time, and when a short walk has increased the heat 
of the body. Mr. Wheelhouse tells me that there is a popular belief 
that it is bad to enter the water when the body is wai-m or perspir- 
ing, but in truth there is no harm in doing tliis. The real danger arises 
from waiting until the glow has passed, and entering the water when 
the body has already begun to cool. Very much depends on the length 
of time that is spent in the water. To some persons three minutes is 
suilicient time, and if they can swim, ten minutes may be taken. When 
the body is warm and all in a glow on coming out of the water, you 
may be sure that the bath has done no harm, but good. On the other 
hand, those who feel cold and shivering after a cold bath are advised 
to take tepid baths in preference. Little children are often forced into 
the water in a state of great terror. If those who have the care of 
them are sensible and patient, they can make them enjoy their bath ; 
and unless they do enjoy it, they will be injured instead of benefited, 
for fear, as I have told you, chills them, and weakens instead of 
strengthening the nerves. A friend of mine, who is now an elderly 
lady, was bathed by hei- father when she was five years old, and from 
that time to this she has been afflicted with a diliiculty in speaking. 

DISINFECTANTS. 

Next to fresh air, the best and cheapest disinfectant is perman- 
ganate of potash. A packet that makes twenty gallons can be bought 
for a shilling of any druggist. A teaspoonful is to be mixed with two 
gallons of water. You can wash the body with it safely, as well as 
furniture, clothes, and floors. 

The air in a bedroom where there is fever is full of poisoncas 
germs. Open the window at the top, or break a hole in the top pane 
of glass. This will let in the fresh air. A pound of fresh air con- 
tains about a quarter of a pound of oxygen ; and the oxygen will burn 
up the poisonous matters in the air. 

After a fever or any infectious complaint, all articles of bedding 
can be purified free of any expense. If a post-card be sent to the 
Inspector of Nuisances, whose salary is paid out of the rates, he will 
Immediately send for the above articles and place them in the hot-air 
apparatus, which will kill all germs of disease. 



198 APPENDIX n. 



APPENDIX I]. 



BOOKS. 

As I am often asked by ladies to mention the books wliicli I found 
useful in the preparation of my lectures, I append a list of those which 
proved njost valuable to me. The list does not profess to be complete, 
but it may serve lo suggest sources of information to others who are 
desirous of working in the same lield. 

' Animal Physiology,' by Dr. W. B. Carpenter. 
'Physiology of Common Life,' by G. II. Lovres. 

* Elementary Physiology,' by T. II. Huxley 
•Physiology for Practical Use,' edited l«y James Ilinton. 
'Philosophy of Health,' by Dr. Sonth-nood Smith. 

' Hent Considered as a Mode of Motion.' by Prof Tyndall. 

' A ILindy Book on Health,' by C. A. Cameron. M.D. 

' Public Health,' by Dr. Guy. 

' Health,' by Dr. E. Smith. 

'Practical Dietary for Families, &c.,' by Dr. E. Smith. 

' Foods,' by Dr. E. Smith. 

' Food,' by Dr. Lankester. 

' Food,' by Dr. Lethoby. 

' Air and Pain,' by Dr. Angus Smith. 

' The Chemistry of Common Life,' by Prof. Johnston. 

* How Crops Grow,' by S. AV. John.son. 

' Management of Infancy,' by Andrew Combo. 

' Every-Day Wonders,' by Anne Bullar. 

' Notes on Nursing,' by Florence Nightingale. 

* Dust and Disease,' by Prof. Tyndall. 
' Yeast,' a Lecture, by Prof. Huxley. 
'French Home Life.' 

' Illustrated Horse Doctor,' by IMayhew. 

' Horse Management,' by Mayhew. 

' Shoeing,' by G. Fleming. 

'Healthy Skin,' by Erasmus "Wilson, F.R.S. 

I used Mr. Marshall's diagrams ; they are the best, and large 
enough for any lecture-room. The small edition of these diagrams and 
a key are necessary for private study. The best plan is to order the 
small edition first, from Smith, Elder, & Co., 15 Waterloo Place, 
liondon, and then select the large diagrams that will best illustrate 
the lectures. 

The following beautiful models by Auzoux, which Leeds, strnnge 
to sav, "loes not possess, were lent to me from Keighley by Mr. Swirn 



BUOKR AND DIAGRAMS. 199 

Smith, one of the Honorary Secretaries of the admirahlo Mechanic?' 
Institute of that town : — 

Ileart of Adtilt, 50 francs. 
Eur (not the largct^t size), 100 francs. 
Half the Eye, 75 francs. 
Ilorse's Foot, 50 francs. 
They must he ordered direct from the maker. Address — An 
Docfeur Auzoux, Hue Antoiue-Dubois, Paris. 

Very good anatomical casts are also prepared by INIessrs. TJamme 
& Stodmann, Hamburg. English agents, 13. W. Iledley & Co., 70 
Mount Pleasant, Liverpool. 

The following are those I have used. The catalogue contains a 
^eat many more of dillerent sizes : — 

'^o. 10. Organ of Ildaring, to be opened . 

Ko. 19. 1'lie Ileart, to bo opened .... 

Ko. 21. Contents of Clie.st, natural size 

No. 26, Contents of Abdomen, natural size, and en- 

tirt'ly divisible .... 
No. 32. Foot, with Ligaments ... 



£ 


s. 


d. 


1 


2 


G 


1 


2 


6 


2 


10 





4 











11 






^The Ladies* Council of the Yorkshire I3oard of Education' are 
most anxious to render any assistanc3 to ladies who are desirous of 
giving Sanitary Lectures. 

To ihem is due the initiation of these lectures. Mrs. Baily, Mrs. 
Fenwick, myself, and our late talented towuswomau, Mrs. James 
Kitson, were invited three yeai-s ago by this body to give sotne 
sanitary lectures to the working-women of Leeds. The Council 
find rooms, issue notices, provide diagrams, and do all that is pos.vlble 
to i-elieve ladies of any unnecessary trouble. The two pani] hlets 
written respectively by Mrs. J. Kitson and myself were published by 
them. Their ollice is at Tower Buildings, Leeds. Any application 
directed to the general Honorary Secretary (Mrs. Francis Lupton) 
will be immediately attended to. It is to be hoped that every town 
and village will soon possess a similar organisation. 



APPENDIX III. 

QUESTIOXS ON CRUELTY TO ANIMALS. 

The following questions were set at the close of my lectures, and 
prizes were ofl'ered i'or the best answers, by th*^ Societ}' for the Pro- 
i^ention of Cruelty to Animals. 



200 



APPENDIX III. 



1. How hare h great number of cattle been killed and injared in 

vessels that hare brought them from foreign lands ? Why do 
animals that are carried from place to place in dirty railway 
carriages or trucks become diseased ? 

2. Why do you think dumb animals require as much pure fresh air as 

human beings? Name some of the complaints they suflfer from 
when they have been shut up in dirty stables. 

3. Why do you think it is not only very cruel but very silly of men 

who drive cattle, and who want them to go faster, to strike them 
on the head ? 

4. Where would you strike an animal if you wanted to kill it as 

quickly as possible ? 

5. Describe the horse's hoof, and tell some of the mistakes which 

ignorant men make when they shoe a horse. Do you think 
a horse ought to hare water in its stable, so that it can drink 
whenever it is thirsty? Would you beat a horse if it shied 
at any object it felt afraid of? What would you do to make 
horsss or any animals less timid and nervous? 

6. Describe the reason wliy horses which are driven with a bearing- 

rein become what are called ' roarers.' What harm is done by 
bad drivers who keep constantly jerking the reins, and pulling up 
the liorse's head ? 

7. Why do you think that a dog might be driven mad if it had a 

muzzle on us mouth that would prevent it from drinking water 
and from putting out its tongue? 

8. Why is it cruel not to give water to sheep, rabbits, parrots, and 

all animals on long journeys, or when they are shut up and not 
allowed to find their own food in the fields or woods ? 

9. Why is it a very cruel and foolijih practice to cut the ears of any 

kind of dog? 
10 Which of the vertebrate animals do you tlitnk have the most 
courage, sense, affection, understand best what is said to them< 
and ncA'CT forsake an old friend ? Tell any stories you can 
remember about dumb animals. 

11. Why do you consider that pigeon-shooting and rabbit-liUntir.g, 

wh'-h T.&'srl *" ^' done ir the Leeds Royal Park, and are still 
done in grand places near London, ought not to be calJed sporty 
but butchery and cruelty ? 

12. Give some of tne reasons why it is selfish to make pets of birds 

and wild animals. 

13. Why are travelling me-aageries, in which wild animals are trained 

to perform Unnatural tricks, cruel places, which ought not to be 
allowed? 

14. Why do we suppose that even one of the lowes-t animals, called th^ 

amceba, has some sort of feeling ? 



INDEX. 



ABO 

ACDOMEN, the, 59 
Air, how to obtain good aif, 2 
•*^ impnre, 8 

— difference between cold and hot air, 
14 

— effects of bad air, 14 
■"^ danger of damp air, 57 

■'— desirability for ffesh air while eat- 
ing meals, go 
'— necessity fof fresh air, 148 
•=^ poisoning by organic matter, 148 
^— bad air injurious to the nerves, 156 
Air-bladders, 52 
Albumen, animal and vegetable, 95 

— its effect on digestion, 98 
'— hardened bv spirits, 100 
Alkali, what ft is, 110 
Americans, unhealthiness of, 115 
AmcEba, the, 10, 184 

Animal albumen, 95 

•'— germs, 10, 145 

'— nitrogenous foods, 118 

— carbonaceous foods, 119 
Animals, fresh air needed for, 17 
^ cruelty to, 18, 179 

— with Vertebral column, 68 
•— the teeth of, 76 

— drink for, 102 

*— importance of Water for, 114 

-— orfians of, 145 

*— dangerous to frighten them, 155 

— vertebrate, the larVnx of, 176 
>— the tfeatmont of, 1/8 

*— sufferings of caged animals, 179 
*— their sufferings in menageries, 179 

— invertebrate 1 82 

- the slaughtering of, 184 

— crueltv to, questions on, 199 
Aorta, the, 43 

Apparatus for cooking, Xort^-egisn, 129 

— SVarren's, 137 



Apples, the quantity of Water in, 113 
b, the ' ■ 
112 



Arrowroot, the quantity of water in. 



Arteries, the, 38 

— danger of cutting them, 45 



nun 

BABY, a, skull of, 22 
— necessity for washing Its \i%iiL 
With sonp and water, 26 
-^ spirits injurious to, 101 
Baby-farmers, 92 
Backbone, the, 26 
Bakers, Baris and Vienna, 152 
Bath, hot-Water, proper heat for, 54 
Bathing, dirc-tions for, 196 
Bedding, purified free of expense, 10 

— (iamp, danger of, 57 

Beds, feather, organic matter in, 148 

Bee, tlie, 182 

lieef. oiif- of the principal nDiwal flesb 

formers. 118 
Beet-steak, receipt for stewing, 141 
Boef-tea, composition of, 123 

— insufhcient for sick people, 139 
Bile, the, 84 

Biliousness, cause of, 90 
Birds, 178 

— caged, 18 

— circulation in, 4? 
Bird-catchers, cruel practices of. 179 
Blacksmith, th'^, his muscles, 82 
Blood, the, effect of oxygen on, 3 

— stibstances in, 36, 76 

— circulation of, o7 

— course of, .']8 

— its circulation through the head 
and arms, 43 

— ^ change of colonr in, 43 

— expHiiment illustrative of the cii'- 
culation of, 44 

— carbon in. 63 

— heat of, 53 

— nietho I of finding its heat, 54 

— uniform heat of, 55 

— Importance of keeping it waftit, tiu 

— turninir of food into, 81 

— albumen In, 96 

— effect of spirits on, 100 
Blood-corpuscles, the, 85 

— their shape in human beings, 80 
flushing, cause of, 45 

Hodv warmers, list of, 88 



202 



INDEX. 



BOP 

Body-\varmers, necessarv' to life, lOG 

— the principal animal and vegetable, 
11!) 

Boilinp-point, 54 

Hones, of human bein^'-, 19 

— formation of, 36 

Books used in preparing these Lec- 
tures, 108 
Bowels, the, 90 
Brain, tiie, 03 

— position of, 24 

— result of injury to, G4 
Bread, starch "iii,"88 

— the quantity of water in, 112, 114 

— tiie principal vci^etable Uesh-formcr, 
118 

— time takrn to digest it, 125 

— home-made, 153 
Bronchial tubes, 52 
IJronciiitis, f 8 

Brunei, the ciy.l ensineor, 57 
Burn. a. how to dress it, 195 
Butcher's meat, reason why it is ~o 

dear, 18 
- the quantity eaten in England, 115 
^iuter, Ju6 

— the quantity of water in, 1 12 



CABHAGE, potash in, 108 
— time taken to digest it, 125 
CaflTeine. 143 
Candhs, fi)rm'vtion of carbonic acid 

gas by, 50 
Capillaries, the, 44 
Carlxm, 3(i, 49 

— change by mixing it with oxygc n 
Cixs. 50 

Carbonaceous foods, 88 

— nason for their being so called, 93 

— the principal, 118 
3aib()iiic acid gs, 3, 50 

— illustr.ition of its dcadliness, 5 

— sullocaiion causeii by it. 118 
Carrots, th« quantity of watdr in, 1 13 
Cattle plaf,Mie, the, cause of, 10 
Cercbelliun, the, (!1 

Cer.-brum, the, 03 
Chabert, the lire king, 55 
Cliarcoal. 50 
Che.se, 105 

— the qu.mtity of water in, 112 

— tin; i)rincipal animal llcsh-forincr, 
118 

— time taken to digest it, 125 
Chest, tiie, 48, 59 

Children, the^r treatment when put 
out to nurse, 92 

— dangerous to frighten them, 155 



DIG 

Children, cutting of teeth of. 157 

— the danger of boxing tlieir ears 
1G3 

Chimneys, necessity of haying them 

in eyery room, l.")' 
Chinese foot, a, 31 
Chlorine gas, 110 
Chocolate, composition of. 144 
Clioroid, the. KJG 
Chyle, 81 

Ciller, eficct of le.ad in, 159 
Cilia, 5G 

Circidation of the blood, 37 
Cleanliness, importance of, 150 
Clotlies, dirtv, injurious to health, 

148 
Cloyer, the quantity of Avatcr in, 113 
Cocoa, composition of, 144 
Cocoa-nibs, 144 
ColTee, composition of, 142 

— its nourishment, 143 

— more nourishinir than tea. 143 
Cold, :1.3 eflccts on the uppetite, 56 
Consunjption, 58 
C«myoluti(ms of the brain, Go 

Cook, Captain, tiie aiscoverer of n 

cure for scuryy, 108 
Cooking, yegetaijle, 125 

— degree of heat required for, 126 

— >vt)rwegian apparatus for, 129 

— Warren's for, 137 

— the Avay to cook a potato, 127 

an egir, 1 28 

a mutton chop, 131 

a joint (f meat, 131 

rice, 132 

macaroni, 132 

— importance of cleanliness in, 150 
Cords in the larynx, 173 
Corn-flour, 134 

Corpuscles, blood, the, 85 
Cows, consumption among, 18 

— digestion of, 78 

— ingreilients of the milk of, 104 
Cremation, 82 

Croup, directions in case of, 59 
Cruelty to animals, 178 

— questions on, 199 
Curds, 105 

Currants, the quantity of water in, 
113 



Di:i.IIUUM trcmerA 101 
Diiphragm, the, 76 
Diarrhoea caused by using feeding 

bottle, 150 
Digestion, the organs of, 76 
— of animals, 76 



INDEX. 



203 



DIG 

DifTPstion. course of, 70 

— lioAv discovered, 00 

— elTect (if spirits on, 00 

— too iniicli meat had for, 115 
Dinner, digestion of, 82 
Directions for batiiinj;, lOG 
Diseases caused bv the Avant of siin- 

sliine, ICO 
Disinfectants, 107 
Doctt)rs, quaclx, ].'8 
Do^s, danj;er of nuizzlinfc, 103 

— cruelty of cutting their ears, IGl 

— satiacity of, 178 

Dorkey, the, sensibleness of, 73 

— value of, 7.) 

Draymen, uniiealtliinoss of, 100 
Drink for luiman beings, 101 

— for animals, 102 

Dripping, the (juantitj of -water in, 

11-2 
Drowning persons, treatment of, Gl, 

IOC 
Drunkards, M-hy they suffer from 

liver complaints, 08 
Drv foods, 180 



E 



AK, Ihe, nerves of sound in, 100 
— formation of, IGl 

— dangerous to box children's ears, 
1()3 

— danger of cleaning the inside of, 
1(;2 

I'ar-ache, cause of, 1G2 
ICggs, the albumen of, 08 

— the (jiiantity of water in, 1 12 

— the way to* boil and poach them, 
128 

— time taken to digest, 125 
Klephant, the, 78 

— intelligence of, 178 

England, anjount of butcher's meat 
eaten in, compared to that in other 
countries, 1 15 

Exercise, the necessity of, 32 

I'lvam, the plague in, 12 

Eye, the, 104-1 08 

— how to extract anything that 
has entered it, IGG 

— muscles of, IG8 
Eyeball, the, 1G4 
Eyebrows, the, 1G7 
Eyelashes, the, 167 
Eyelids, the, 1G6 

FACTS that ought to be known, 1 
FaintintrC persons, the best 
method for restoring them, 61 
Fat in cocoa, 144 

— digestion of, 151, 152 



OAS 

Fear, the moans of causing death, 155 
Feather beds, organic matter in, 148 
Feeding-l.otiles,'dangcr of, 150 
leet, sensitiveness of the, 72 
Fermety, 134 
Fever, cause of, 

— treatment in olden times. 11 
Fibres, muscular, 80 

Fibrin in the l;lood. OG 

— hardened by sjiirits, 103 
Fin-rer, the, nerves in, GG 
Fire king, the, 55 

Fish, their means of breathing, GO 

— the proper wav to frv lish, 151 
Flesh, table of t lie juices of, 122 
Flesh-formers, 88, 102 

— composition of, 05 

' — the principal animal and vegeta- 
ble, 118 

— necessary to life, 106 

— nourishment in, 1 18 
Food, digestion of, 7G, 70 

— digested and turned into go<>d 
blood. 81 

— food that Avill not digest, 82 

— solids, 82 

— the reason we eat solids, 104 

— the reason we should not ti^k*- 
liquids onlv, 104 

— salt in, 1 To 

— quantity of water in drv and wet 
fo<.ds, 1 1'2 

— nitrogenous, 118 

— carbonaceous, 1 10 

— diderent effects, 110 

— reason for eating a variety of, 121 

— hot food more digestible than 
cold, 122 

— cooking of, 124 

— importance of solids, 140 

— table of, 187 

— dry foods, 180 

— wet foods, 1 00 

— foods most suitable for health, 
102 

Foot, the, 31 

— of the Chinese, 31 

Fowls, time taken to digest, 125 
French cooking, 115 
Fright, cause of, 45 

— danger of frightening children, 155 

— death by, 155 

Frog, the, structure of, GO 
Fruit, potash in, 108 



G 



AN(JLIA of sight, 1G5 

Ga;, formation of carbonic ncid 
gas by, 50 



204 



INDEX. 



Gastric juice, 82, 90 
Gelatine, 37 
Germs, 9 

— poisonous, 147 

— vej;etal)le anM animal, 145 

— in liquids, 149 

Gin injurious to l)abies, 101 

Girls, reason why more die than 

boys, G 1 
Gland'", sweat, 6 

— salivary, 79 

— jT^astric, 82 

— mesenteric, 82 

Gooseberries, the quantity of water in, 

113 
Grass, the quantity of water in, 118, 

114 
Gravv, receipt for, 140 
(iullet, the, /9 
Guy, Dr., on sufTerinprs of sailors a 

hundred years ago, 107 

HAIb'-WASHKS, lead in, 159 
Hands, joints in, 26 
Ilarvpy, the discoverer of circulation 

of the blood, 47 
Hashed cold meat, receipt for gravv, 

140 
Head, the, descrif Hon of, 21 

— dangerous to strike it, 23 

— reasons foi keeping it clean, 24 
Health, good, recjuisites for, 1 

- — health in the olden times, 8 
— - foods most suitable for, 192 
Hearing, the nerves of, 164 
*— th^ sense of, 159 
Heart, the, 3G 

— situation of, 3 

— size of, 38 

— beating of, 41 

Heat to bake bread, 152 
Hip-joint, 29 

— disease of, 30 

Hoof, a, structure of, 72-75 
Horse, the, intelligence of, 70 
-— alfection of, 7 

— nervous system of, 71 

— its foot, 72^75 

-»- reason why its eyelashes and 
haw ought never to be cut, 167 

— the larvnX of, 176 

— why it is cruel to drive it with a 
bearing- rein, 176 

Hydrogen, 81 

ICELAND, rarity of consumption 
in, 58 
Infants, importance of keeping their 
blood warm, 60 



Infants, ignorant ideas of people re» 
gariiing, 60 

— hints regarding the clothing of, 60 

— digestion of, 91 

— feeding of, 91 

— tight bandaging injurious to, 105 
Infection, retention of, in wooUea 

materials, 12 

— directions for, 15 
Insects, nerves of, 182 
Invertebrate animals, 182 
Iron in water, HI 



JOINTS, 26 

e/ — the way to roast them, 131 
Joint-oil, 28 
Juices of the flesh, 122 



KINDNESS, effect of, on cri- 
minals, 175 
Knee-joints, oO 



LACING, tight, effects of, 34 
Lamina} of the horse's f-.iot 74 
* Land and Water,' extract from, 13S 
Landseer, anecdoto rc^gardinjr, Iftl 
Lard, the (luantitj of water in, 112 
Larynx, the, 172-^174 
Laudanum, evil effeds of, 157 
Lead-poi.<oning, effects of, 159 

— injurious to the nerves, 159 
Leeds, mortality in, 1 

— uiiiiealthini'ss in, 147 
Lemons, potash in, 108 

— the quantity of water in, 113 
Lentils, the quantity of water in, 113 
Lettuce, potash in, 108 

— tlie quantity of water in, 113 
Ligaments, 29 

Lime, 37 

Linseed, the quantity of water in, 

113 
Lion, the digestion of, 76 

— the length of its bowels compared 
with those of the sheep, 90 

Liquids, the reason we should not 
take lic^uid food only, 104 

— germs m, 149 
Liver, the, 96 

— a nutmeg liver, 97 

— those who sutler most from liver 
complaints, 97 

Lobster, the, 182 
Lungs, the, 51 

— capillaries of, 52 

— quantity of air in, 57 



INDEX, 



205 



MACARONI, the quantity of 
water in, 112 

— tlie way it should be cooked, 
132 

M animals, 178 

Matt»'r, organic, 147 

Meat, the quantity of water in, 112 

— not whultsome to eat too much, 
115 

— time it takes to difjest, 125 

— the way it should be roasted, 
131 

— hashed, 140 

— minced, 140 

Me<liciiies, quack danger of taking, 
157 

— reason w!iy people should not buy 
tliem, 158 

Menageries, sufferings of animals in, 

179 
Mesenteric glands, the, 84 
iMi(Ulens, 147 
Milk, .^7 

— ingredients of the milk of a cow 
and a mother, 104 

— composition of, 105 

— tlie quantity of water in, 112 

— tiniH it takes to digest, 125 

— germs of infriciious diseases in, 
149 • , 

— danger of sour milk, 160 
Mincecl meat, 140 
Mineral foods, 106, 109 
Monkeys, treatment of, 18 
Monpesson. Mr., 13 

Mother's milk, ingredients of, 104 
Motion, nerves of, 154 
Muscles, the, 31 

— injury of spirits to, 99 

— of the eye. 1G8 

Mutton, one of the principal animal 

flesh-formers, 118 
Mutton-chop, the way to cook one, 

131 



NERVES, the, 65 
— effect of spirits on, 101 

— of hearing, 154 

— voluntary, 155 

— of motion, 155 

— bad air injurious to, 156 

— of sound, 'l 00, 102 

— of sight, 165 
Nitrogen, 95 
Nitrofienous foods, 95 

— the principal, 118 

North American Indian, skull of, 
22 



Norwegian self-acting cooking appa> 

ratus, 129 
— directions for its use, 194 
Nurses, caution to, 29 
Nutmeg liver, the, 97 



OATMEAL, nourishment in, 118 
— the prin<-ipul vegetkble flesh- 
former, 118, 192 
Oats, the quantity of water in, 112 
Oils, the (juantity of water in, 112 

— elements of waters, 80 

Onions, the quantitv of water in, 

113 
Oranges, potash in, 108 

— the quantity of water in, 113 
Organs of the body, 36 

— of plants and animals, 145 

— of sight, 164 
Organic matter, 147 

— organic n\atier in wells, 170 
Orrery, an, 170 
Osma/ome, 125 

Oven, proper heat ■ to bake bread, 

152 
Oxvgen gas, its effect on the blood 

32 

— result of its combination witii car- 
bon, 60 

Ovster, the, 182 



PANCREAS, the, 90 
Paris bakers, 152 
Pat<? de foie gras, composition of, 

97 
Peas, the quantity of water in, 
112 

— nourishment in, 118 
Permanganate of potash, 10 
Per-piration, 6 

Pets, cruelty of keeping them, 179 
IMiosjdiate of lime, 110 
Piiosphoriis, 37 
Pigeon-shooting, cruelty of, 179 

— an instance of its cruelty, 180 
Pigs, measles among, 19 

Plague, the, an instance of infection 

during, 12 
Plants, organs of, 145 

— decaved, 147 

— effect of sunshine on, 168 
Pleura, the, 51 

Pleurisy, 5 1 
Plica Polunica, 25 
Poisonous germs, 147 
Pores of the skin, 6 

— eflect of stoppages in, 6 



206 



INDEX. 



POU 

Pores, absorption by, 7 

— (.f plants, 146 

Pork, time taken to digest it, 125 
J'orridge, liow to malCe it, I'J'i 
Potash, coniposition of, 107 

— e.\i)eriineut by wliich it is made, 
108 

— in vej;etables, 108 
Potassium. 108 

Potatoes, tUe quantity of water in, 
118,114 

— boiled, time taken to di<^est, 125 

— roasted, time taken to digest, 
125 

— the way to boil them, 12G 
Piie&iley, Dr., 9 
Pulmonary veins, 41 

Pumpkin, the quantity of water in, 
113 

QUACK doctors, 158 
— medicines, danger of 
taking, 158 

— tiie reason whv people should not 
buy tiieni, 158 "■ 

(Juadrupeds, circulation in, 47 



RA15BITS, importance of water 
for, 114 
Pabbit-liunting, cruelty of, 181 
liap" seed, the quantity of water in, 

lis 

Reptiles, 178 

— c;ir<:ulation in, 47 
lie.-p'ration, 41) 
iJetina, the, 1()5 
Kevaleuta Arabica, i;M 
Hheumatism, cause of, 57 
Ivluiliarb, the quantity of water in, 

IIJ 
Il'ce, the quantity of water in, 112 

— nourishment in, 1 18 

— the way it should be cooked, 
132 

Roasting, 131 
Uoots of plants, 145 



SAILORS, sufferings of, from 
scurvy, along time ago, 107 
Stilivn, bad practice of cleaning 

slates with, 147 
Salivarv ;;lands, 79 
Salts in thf blood, 106 
Salt, common, 110 
Salt me;ir, 13G 
Saucepans the way they sliould be 

cleaned, li>0 



Scald, a, how to dress it, 195 

Scarlet fever germs in woollen 

materials, 13 
Sclerotic, the, 166 
Scurvy, sutferings of sailors from, a 

long time ago, 107 

— cure for, discovered bv Captain 
Cook, 108 

Sea-gulls, 181 

Semolina, the quantity of water in, 
112 

— the way it should be cooked, 
134 

Sense of hearing, the, 159* 

— of sight, the, 164 
Sheep, diseases among, 19 

— the length of their bowels, 90 
Sickness, directions for, 15 
Sight, sense of, 164 

— nerves of, 165 
Skeleton, human, the, 19 
Skin, the, 5 

— its pores, 6 

— hints to pe<'ple who suffer Irom 
skin complaints. 111 

— etfec of tea upon. 142 
Skull, the, 63 

— natural state of, 21 

— of a baby, 22 

— of a Noitli American Indian, 22 
Slates, bad practice of cleaning 

them with .saliya, 147 
Small-pox, curious cure of, 11 
Soap, necessity for using it with 

water, 7 

— soda in, 109 

Society for Prevention of Cruelty to 

Annuals, 17 
Soda, com|)osition of, 109 
Sodium, 110 

Sole, a, the way to cook it, 152 
Nolid foods, im[)ortance of, 140 
S(K)thing syrups, danger of, 157 

— death from taking, 158 
Sound, cause of, IGU 
Soup, nourishment in, 121 

— receij)ts for making it with and 
without butcher s meat. 136-138 

Speech, necessity for learning, 174 

— gentleness of, 174 
Spinal cord, the, 65 

— its conneition with the bram, 154 
Spine, 26 

Spirits, efftct on digestion, 99 

— bad eir.ctsof, 98 
Stammering, cause of, 174 
Stare*- in bread. 88 
Starfish, the, 183 

Stems of plants, 145 



INDEX. 



207 



STB 

Stewed beef-steak, receipt for, 141 

Stock, nie;it. 13(5 

Stomach, tlie, 80 

Sul'staiicts ill tlie hlood, ."G, 7G 

Suet, till' quantity of water in, 112 

Sutiocation, Gl 

Su^ar, oonijiosition of, 93 

— wliolosomcness of, !)4 

— not injurious to the tei'th, 91- 

— the (|uantity of water in, 1 12 
Sun. tlie, ihe means of our obiaininjji; 

drink and air, 170 
Sunshine, iuipoitau' e of, 1C8 

— <liseases caused by the want of, 
1G9 

S\ rups. soothinfT, (lan<jjer of, la7 

— death from taking, li8 
Sw.at, G, M8 
Sweat-glands, G 
Sweetbread, the. 90 

bweets. injurious to cdiihiren, 95 



rpAXNICacid, iU 
X Tea, compositiim of, Ml 

— its ellect on our hoilies, 142 

— its edect on tlie skin, 142 

— best time to be taken, 142 

— bad for pi'ople who do not get 
jilentv of fooil, 143 

Tear-glands, 1G7 
Teeth, Ihe, 7G 

— of animals, 76 
~ use of, 78 

--- reason wiiy there are more deaths 
in town than country during cut- 
ting of teeth, l.')7 

Temporal bone of the ear, IGl 

Theine, 141 

'ihcobioma cacao, 144 

Thermometer, the, explanation of, 
fi3 

Thirst, the best drink to quench it, 
102 

Thorax, the, ftO 

Throat, the musical instrument in, 
172 

Tic caused by weak nerves, 15G 

Tooth-ache caused by weak nerves, 
loG 

Touch, sense of, G8 

Trtacle, composition of, 93 

i'ripe, time taken to digest it, V2r> 

'I'runk, the, 2G 

Turnips, tlie quantitv of water in, 
113 

Typhoid fever caused by drinking 
impure milk, 150 



VARICOSE veins, 46 
Veal, time taken to digest it, 
125 
Veget hies, germs in, 10, 145 

— digestion of, 87 

— starch in, 88 

— body-wMrni' rs, 88 

— allinmen of, 95 

— nitrogenous foods, 118 

— carbonaceous foods, 1 19 

— preparations trom, 134 

— cookiiu^ of, 125 
Veins, the, 38 

— supi-rior vena cava, 39 

— inferior vena cjiva, 39 

— pulmonary, 41 

— \aricose, 4G 

— circulation of blood through, 46 
Vena cava, superior, 39 

— inferior, 39 
Ventilation, 13 
Verteliral column, G8 
VertebMte animals, G8 

— the larynx of, 176 
Vienna bakers, 152 
Vocal cords, 172 

Voice, the, gentleness of, 174 

— tlltct of, on criminals and fierce 
animals, 175 

Vulumary nerves, 155 



WAHRKX'S apparatus for cook- 
ing, 137 
W iter, composition of, 80 

— safety of drinking. 102 

— immense quantity in thp body. 112 

— organic matter in well-water, 170 
Well-water, organic matter in, 170 
Wet foods, 190 

Wheat, the quantitv of water in, 112. 

113 
Whev, 105 
Windpipe, the. fil, 5G 

— danger of getting anything into, 57 
Women, their want of exeri ise, S3 

— ellect of tiyht lacing on, 34 

— their strength. 35 

Woollen ma'erials, retention of germs 

of disease in. 12 
Working-men, best food for, 119 



EAST, 10 



'OOPllVTES, 183 



V 






A 



SI 



