MINISTRY OF HEALTH 



AND OTHER ADDRESSES 




MINISTRY OF HEALTH 



AND OTHER ADDRESSES. 



BY 

BENJAMIN WARD RICHARDSON, 

M.D., F.R.S., M.A., LL.D., F.S.A., 

FELLOW OF THE ROYAL COLLEGE OF PHYSICIANS AND HONORARY PHYSICIAN TO THE 
ROYAL LITERARY FUND. 



NEW YORK: 
D. APPLETON & COMPANY, 

549 & 55i BROADWAY. 
18/9. 



Iii fHcmortam 

TO 
ROBERT WILLIS, M.D. 

FOR THIRTY YEARS A BELOVED FRIEND, COUNSELLOR 
AND FELLOW WORKER 

THESE ADDRESSES 

IN REMEMBRANCE OF HIS LEARNING, VIRTUE, 

COURAGE, AND AFFECTION 
ARE MOST SINCERELY AND REVERENTLY 

DEDICATED 



PREFACE. 

THREE of these addresses, published originally in the 
' Gentleman's Magazine/ having been often called for, 
are supplied in this volume, together with six others 
dealing with allied subjects. 

The first address, on A Ministry of Health, was 
delivered before the Sanitary Institute of Great 
Britain, at the Stafford Congress of the Institute, in 
October last, and was intended to invite attention to 
one of the most pressing reforms of the day. The 
favour with which the address was received by almost 
all sections of the public press leads me to hope that 
the time is near when the legislative bodies will find 
the subject it discusses worthy of earnest consider- 
ation. 

I have been much gratified by the kind notice 



viii PREFACE. 

that has been taken of the third address, entitled 
A Homily Clerico-Medical. This address, which was 
delivered in St. Paul's Cathedral as one of the 
Trophy Room lectures of the Homiletical Society, 
and which was first published in the Clergyman's 
Magazine, is an attempt to show the points of con- 
tact of two of the leading learned professions. The 
subject it broaches is also one for the future ; and if I 
have opened it ever so slightly for serious discussion 
the labour will be well rewarded. 

The eighth address, on the Registration of Disease, 
was delivered as far back as 1862, before the Social 
Science Association. It relates to a subject on which 
I had then been labouring for several years, at much 
cost and with little success. The time now seems 
opportune for getting the plan suggested in the essay 
carried out on a complete scale under central and 
Governmental direction. When this is done, and not 
until then, we shall begin to be sanitary reformers in 
deed as well as word, for we shall begin to study 
disease in its entirety, in its habitat, and in its 
season. 

In the address on The World of Physic, which 
formed an inaugural to one of the Sessions of the 



PREFACE. ix 

St. Andrews Graduates' Association, and in each of the 
other addresses, I have tried either to point a new 
suggestion that may be of practical service, or to bring 
into notice, in plain and simple language, some matter 
of information that has not as yet become knowledge 
in common. 

12 HINDE STREET, W. : January i, 1879. 



CONTENTS. 



I. A MINISTRY OF HEALTH 

II. WILLIAM HARVEY .... 

III. A HOMILY CLERICO-MEDICAL 

IV. LEARNING AND HEALTH . 

V. VITALITY, INDIVIDUAL AND NATIONAL. 

VI. THE WORLD OF PHYSIC . 

VII. BURIAL, EMBALMING, AND CREMATION. 



PAGE 
I 

31 

78 
no 
149 
186 
230 



VIII. REGISTRATION OF DISEASE . . . . . . 278 

IX. ETHER-DRINKING AND EXTRA-ALCOHOLIC INTOXICA- 
TION i 306 



I. 

A MINISTRY OF HEALTH. 

^\\ WHENEVER the question of legislative pro- 
* * cedure is brought forward in England, we 
have to consider in relation to it two distinct orders 
of mind, the centralizing and the self-governing. 
These orders of mind have no. necessary reference 
to what is called party feeling. They are neither 
Whig, nor Tory, nor Radical. The designations of 
party are the mere designations of sets of men who 
are struggling to rule. The orders of mind, central- 
izing and self-governing, are the natural components 
of the national character, and exist in all the parties. 
To the foreigner this peculiarity of the English 
character is perplexing beyond measure. He can 
make nothing of it. One of the shrewdest of French- 
men, who, during the rule of the Empire, lived in 
England, and who was a politician of the purest 
kind, a politician by talent as well as by learning, 
told me this was the difficulty of difficulties to under 



2 A MINISTRY OF HEALTH. 

stand. He would adduce examples. " There is such 
and such a member of Parliament for a Radical 
borough ; a Radical of the deepest dye ; a Radical 
amongst Radicals, who lived in the days when that 
almost forgotten book, the ' Radicals of Marylebone/ 
was written, and who might have written the book. 
That man is as great a centralizer as * Napoleon le 
petit ' himself. There is another member of Parlia- 
ment for a Tory borough, who talks of nothing but 
the glory of the British constitution, and the horrors 
of the Radical programme. Yet he is in dead enmity 
to everything that partakes of absolute authority, 
local or general ; is opposed to every movement in 
the vestry of his parish that savours of improvement ; 
and would not let another Act of Parliament pass if 
he could possibly prevent it." 

This was the tone in which .my logical French 
friend spoke of us islanders ; and no doubt he spoke 
with perfect correctness of us, as we presented our- 
selves to him. We were peculiar and contradictory 
to him, if words could be trusted, in respect to our 
principles of political action. Principles of policy are 
not, in fact, the principles by which we are moved 
and by which we move. 

The simple truth is, that the impulses which lead 
us to action are in our natures, and move us inde- 
pendently of our professions, which, being accidentally 



A MINISTRY OF HEALTH. 3 

acquired, are always secondary influences. It is 
necessary, therefore, in thinking of legislation, not 
to think so much of party as of the primary motives 
of those who make up the nation, and of what the 
nation is likely to permit and is likely to put to the 
test of practice. 

Computing by this test, there are, I think, very 
few thoughtful people who would try any legislation 
for England that had in it much of a centralizing 
disposition. If the mind of the nation could be 
fairly tested as to its desires, I should say that three 
out of four would prefer the self-governing to the 
central method in any measure that might be 
proposed, even though the measure had reference to 
the dearest of all interests, the first of all interests, 
the health of the nation, in its individual and collective 
state. We have not, it is true, had much experience 
on this point ; for the genius of the nation, by which 
term I mean the special or particular tendency of the 
nation, has run counter to experiments that would 
lead to experience. But, whenever we have, in a 
small way, gained an experience from a political 
experiment in which central authority has been the 
source of power, the result has, perhaps without an 
exception, been, at best, but partly successful. At 
this moment, in relation to sanitary work, there are 
in operation two measures eminently promising in 



4 A MINISTRY OF HEALTH. 

regard to the good they are likely to effect for the 
health of the people : yet no two measures could 
be more intensely opposed opposed not by Whigs, 
Tories, or Radicals specially, but by men who at the 
election booth vote entirely differently, and who 
represent the most conflicting party interests. 

I make these observations as a preliminary to the 
subj ect proper of my present discourse. Amongst sani- 
tarians there is now actively enkindled an enthusiasm 
which has never before been witnessed in any other 
country, and never before in this country. The 
health topic is the social topic of the hour, the leading 
subject of discourse through all society. In one of 
the most unsophisticated fishing villages of this king- 
dom, in a village on the outskirts of the kingdom, in 
a village where the people rarely see it necessary to 
go abroad to find mates for marriages and where 
they seem all to be one family, in a village in which 
of all others I should, by passing through it, have 
least expected to find the light of sanitary science, 
in that remote and simple place there occurred 
recently a death, said to have been from typhoid 
fever. I, being in the village at the time as a tourist, 
heard, by accident, of this death from the post- 
mistress, in whose house I found a friendly retreat 
during a heavy shower. In an almost automatic 
method I asked, as the fact reached me, what was 



A MINISTRY OF HEALTH. 5 

the mode in which the houses of the place were 
drained. Judge my astonishment at hearing, in 
reply, from my informant, that the case in question 
could not be connected with drainage; that it was 
not a case of typhoid fever from special contagion 
conveyed by water ; that it was a case of fever after 
confinement, which had assumed a typhoid character ; 
that the water supply of the place had no communi- 
cation whatever with the sewage ; that although 
such communication was now known to be commonly 
present when there was an epidemic of typhoid, the 
place I was now in, bad as it looked, was safe from 
an outbreak of typhoid fever from that cause ; but 
that she could not say so much for it if typhus 
should occur, since typhus was disposed to travel 
by the air and, if it did break out, would probably 
find a great many victims, the ventilation of the 
e houses being very bad. Judge further my surprise 
at her conclusion, that the villagers, although they 
were not rich nor much educated, nor much in the 
way of the world, were quite aware of what was 
necessary to preserve the health of the community ; 
that they had no kind of superstitions, as tneir 
fathers and mothers had, about diseases being neces- 
sary evils and that nonsense ; and that if they could 
not build a model town, they could at all events go 
on improving what they had got. 



6 A MINISTRY OF HEALTH. 

Such homely facts as these show how the current 
of popular opinion goes at present on the subject of 
health, and affords, at one and the same time, a reason 
and an excuse for the zeal and enthusiasm of those 
who are in the first rank of the sanitary advance. 
To them the temper of the nation seems to be 
towards some design that shall transform projected 
measures for perfecting the health of the community 
into practical working measures, and that shall make 
men and women and children the sanitary salt of the 
earth, not by your leave and with your leave, but by 
subpoena and at your peril. 

Against this conception I am anxious, before I 
proceed further, to raise my voice. Few men have 
been longer in the trained service of sanitary science 
than myself. Few men have followed more closely 
the development of that science. There is scarcely 
one large lecture-theatre in the kingdom in which I 
have not taught some sanitary lesson. There are 
few earnest sanitarians of the day with whom I have 
not held communication or exchange of knowledge 
and opinion. And, if from all these experiences I 
am ' able to form a judgment of any kind that is 
definite, it is, firstly, that nothing has so much 
forwarded the great progress we have witnessed 
during the past quarter of a century as the perfect 
freedom of action that has been permitted ; and 



A MINISTRY OF HEALTH. J 

secondly, that nothing more disastrous at this stage 
of our course, or possibly at any stage, could occur, 
than the interposition of a central authority that 
should attempt to enforce even the wisest of rules on 
the community by serving it with a subpoena to 
attend even to its health. Nor have we far to seek 
for the reasons of this. The reasons are simple 
because the problem of health is simple ; because so 
very little requires to be done to reach what is 
perfect ; and, because all that has to be done is so 
easy to be done, that to inflict on the most willing 
people any heavy yoke of authority would be the 
exercise of an unwarrantable and complicated instru- 
ment of force. When at this very time we, as 
practical sanitarians, look at the conditions of our 
houses and our towns, and at the social state of the 
masses of the people ; and, when from that picture 
we turn to the tables of mortality, our wonder is, not 
that we suffer so much, but that we are half so healthy 
as we are. With that wonder we take in at a glance 
an appreciation of the fact, that the extension of the 
most obvious and childish rules of self-preservation 
would accomplish almost everything that could be 
accomplished, and that what is demanded now, when 
the weight of superstition is removed, and every man 
feels that disease is a burthen he carries on his own 
shoulders, is education, with time to give it room to 



8 A MINISTRY OF HEALTH. 

turn in, and freedom to give to it readiness and 
facility of action. 

These observations as to the development, past, 
present, and future, of the science of health may 
sound at first singular as a preface to an address 
which has for its promise the consideration of the 
duties that belong to an officer of the State who is 
to be called a Minister of Health. There is, how- 
ever, nothing in what I have said that is opposed to 
the appointment of such an important officer of the 
State, while out of what I have referred to there is 
overwhelming argument to be found for his creation, 
at as early a date as is possible. My object in the 
preface has been to indicate at once that any officer 
placed in the central position to which attention is 
drawn, must be an authority, not a disciplinarian ; a 
judge and director, not a commanding officer ; a 
collator and teacher of all learning relating to health, 
not a dogmatic professor ; an interpreter of the laws 
which bear upon health, not an officer of justice 
enforcing them on the community. He should, in a 
word, be to the people what the judge is to the jury 
and to the officers of justice who bring up cases for 
judgment or carry out the verdict 

As with the judge, the Minister of Health would 
soon find there are sufficient numbers of laws for all 
purposes if they were only enforced under proper 



A MINISTRY OF HEALTH. 9 

direction. For himself, instead of asking to be 
invested with special powers of a legal kind, it would 
rather be his duty to investigate the mode* of action 
and value of the many laws which are at present in 
force ; to determine which are useful and practical, 
which useless and cumbersome ; and to advise the 
Government on the subject of a complete and revised 
code for sanitary administration, local and imperial. 

A minister so constituted as to his duties and 
powers would come into office without prejudice. If 
he did not quite meet the views of the small minority 
who would crave for centralising powers as a part of 
his official functions, and who, in their zeal for the 
sanitary cause, would create a fatal imperium in im- 
perio, he would, as a central authority, meet their ideal 
of the necessity for his existence, and, in the end, 
would probably suit them better than if he were 
armed with powers which he might, in the exercise of 
his supreme mercy, inflict on themselves. To the 
members of the great majority, which I have called 
the self-governing, he would be acceptable without 
fear. They would listen to his direction calmly, 
because the power to act would rest with themselves ; 
and they would be more likely, from that very 
circumstance, to submit to his directions, and to act 
in accordance with his recommendations. 

If it be asked what evidence there is that a public 



io A MINISTRY OF HEALTH. 

officer, placed as I have indicated, would be of any 
effective service to the community, I answer that the 
most notable evidence of the kind that has ever been 
recorded is to be found in the career and work of the 
officer who, in the year 1838, was appointed under the 
name or title of the 'Registrar-General of Births, 
Deaths, and Marriages.' When, in another century, 
the history of English sanitation comes to be written, 
the historian will find in the returns of the Registrar- 
General the kernel of sanitary science in England 
during the past forty years. Each week the daily 
papers publish from those returns an abstract at 
which now all England glances, and on which all 
thoughtful England speculates, in relation to ques- 
tions of health. By that record towns are put on 
their mettle to compete for the best health, in a 
manner which no mandate from a central government 
office, charged with power to enforce, could ever 
produce. By that record every sanitary improvement 
is tested and shown at its true value, so that the 
masses of the people are directly influenced by it. 
The Registrar-General is a judge, not a ruler. He 
merely puts the case, the jury rules ; and if, in many 
instances, its ruling may be poor and faulty, it is in 
the right direction, and, what is above all price of 
computation, it day by day improves. 

These returns, moreover, do more than affect the 



A MINISTRY OF HEALTH. ij 

masses ; they affect a smaller and yet most influential 
class, the thinking part of .the nation, the cerebral 
part, if I may so express myself. From these returns 
mortalities have been extracted, and causes of mor- 
talities specially traced. From them the dark regions 
of disease in the land have been discovered, mapped 
out and demonstrated at a glance, as counties and 
towns are demonstrated. From them influences of 
seasons on diseases are made manifest. From them 
the relation of occupations to the duration of life of 
the occupied has been deduced. From them the 
relation of birth to death has been wrought out with 
a precision which Arbuthnot and Halley, with all 
their prescience, could hardly have dreamed of. I do 
not mean to claim for these returns that they are 
perfect. I do not mean to say that they explain all 
anomalies and all coincidences. I do not claim that 
the annual reports founded on them by their officers, 
remarkable state documents as those are which 
bear the honoured name of William Farr, are all 
that could be wished. But, taking the work of the 
Registrar-General's department for forty years, I do 
mean to say that it has no parallel ; that it has 
served a purpose of good far beyond all expectations 
of it ; that it is the finest piece of contemporary 
vital history that has ever been written ; and, that we, 
the representatives of health and science in this day. 



12 A MINISTRY OF HEALTH. 

could not have been the scholars of health we are, if 
those papers had not been our treasure trove. 

The facts of one department are, it seems to -me, 
the natural proofs of what in England, and it is no 
business of mine to speak for any other country, 
can be effected by official direction of intelligence. I 
am led thereby, as from a minor to a major considera- 
tion, to the study of the new office of a Ministry of 
Health. 

Is there any requirement for such a Ministry ? will 
be the first question that comes forward. We have 
rapidly progressed as we have proceeded so far with- 
out such a Ministry, and we found, during the short 
time that we had a President and an acting Board of 
Health, no great satisfaction in that experiment. 
Why should we move at all into that which is new 
and problematical ? 

The answer to this is, that we must move, because 
we cannot remain as we are. We have piled up such 
a number of sanitary valuables, we do not know how 
or where to lay our hands on them when we want 
them. We have a library without a librarian or a 
catalogue^ I had almost said without a shelter. Until 
we get a house with an orderly department and an 
official direction, we can have no system in our work ; 
while day by day, with an increasing public intelli- 



A MINISTRY OF HEALTH. 13 

gence, the work becomes harder and a systematized 
plan of it the more absolutely necessary. 

At this time there are half-a-dozen Ministers of 
Health, and half-a-dozen boards with a number of 
intelligent men, some of the highest intelligence, 
acting practically as clerks, doing sanitary work 
which clerks could well do, and charing under the 
infliction of labours which have no satisfactory end. 
The President of the Local Government Board is one 
of these ministers ; the Secretary of State for the 
Home Department is another ; the Registrar-General 
is a third ; the Chief Commissioner of Works is a 
fourth ; the Lord President of the Privy Council is a 
fifth ; and the President of the Board of Trade is a 
sixth. There is not one of these important State 
functionaries who has not something to consider 
bearing on the health of those whose interests he 
superintends ; while some of them have more sanitary 
details to consider than any other. I name these 
officials specially, leaving out of sight, but not out of 
mind, the heads of the Army and Navy Departments, 
the Postmaster-General, and the semi-governmental 
President of the Metropolitan Board of Works. 

But with all this multiplication of officers con- 

nected with particular parts of the sanitary service. 

we have no one reliable Minister of Health. Not one 

to whom application can be made for immediate and 

2 



14 A MINISTRY OF HEALTH. 

distinct information ; not one from whom information 
is issued that is complete in its bearings; not one who 
is ready at any moment to furnish the Government of 
the day with the data by which it could come to a 
decision in the event of any great crisis affecting the 
health of the people ; not one to whom the people 
would pay an instant and a willing deference. 

It is a Minister and Ministry able to carry out 
these duties that is now required, and to the creation 
of which our attention should be devoted. 

BASIS. 

The basis of a Ministry of Health is already laid. 
I do not think there can be two opinions on the sub- 
ject, that the basis lies with the office of the Registrar- 
General. That office, amended in name and in function, 
supplies all that is required as a nucleus. The work 
of estimating life and death which now goes on there 
is the true foundation of all our efforts. This work 
ought to remain as the foundation. It may admit of 
being improved and widened, and some think that it 
ought to be. I have nothing to say on that matter, 
except that, if all else were half as good and perfect, 
we should be in the way of rapid and safe progress. 

It is by modification of, and additions to, this de- 
partment, as it now exists, that the new official and 
governmental institution for which I plead should be 



A MINISTRY OF HEALTH. 15 

established. The modifications and additions are not, 
after all, many; and they are, I believe, all practicable. 
They would introduce nothing actually new, but would 
bring together what is already extant. The depart- 
ment would be no longer for mere registration, but 
would include all that relates to health. Correctly 
re-named, it would be a Ministry of Health, or a State 
Department for Health. The shortest and at the 
same time the most distinctive title would be the 
Ministry of Health ; and in accordance with this the 
head of the department, instead of being called the 
Registrar-General, would be called the Minister of 
Health. There is a great deal in securing this title. 
It would give dignity to the office, and would fix 
the office in the minds of the people as an office which 
they understood and which they respected ; an office 
closely associated with all that is of most vital interest 
to them and to theirs. 

CONSTRUCTION AND DUTIES. 

The construction and duties of the Ministry of 
Health would lead to several divisions of labour. 

I. Registration. In addition to the duty of col- 
lecting the registrations of births, deaths, and mar- 
riages, the Ministry of Health would collect the 
registrations of disease throughout the kingdom. A 
complete system of registration would be estab- 



16 A MINISTRY OF HEALTH. 

lished, and the returns supplied by it would include 
not only the diseases affecting human kind, but the 
diseases affecting animals and plants in every locality. 
By this means the leaders of public opinion and 
knowledge would every hour have at their command 
the facts of the state of health of the entire country. 
By a very simple arrangement and extension of the 
information that has been already collected by the 
geological survey, the local natural history of each 
district could be appended to the returns, so that the 
relations of disease to local conditions could shortly 
be known with precision, and philosophically dis- 
cussed. 

II. Meteorology. To the same Ministry the 
reports of meteorological conditions would be duly 
sent from all the observatories. In this manner the 
relations of meteorological states, embracing of course 
those pertaining to season and climate, would be 
connected with the prevailing health, and the con- 
nection between the two would be effectively and 
systematically traced out. 

III. Coroners* Returns. To the Ministry of Health 
would be entrusted the collection and arrangement of 
another set of returns, which, important as they are, 
are now practically lost. I mean the returns of the 
Coroners' courts. These documents are invaluable as 
signs of the moral and physical states of the people ; 



A MINISTRY OF HEALTH. 17 

for no complete estimate of the health of the nation 
and the causes of its prosperity or decadence can be 
supplied if the catalogues of deaths by violence, acci- 
dent, and design, be left out of the record. Those 
who would correctly appreciate what is conveyed in 
this suggestion, should study the annual reports which 
the late Coroner for Central Middlesex, Dr. Lankester, 
so ably and, laboriously compiled from his official 
experience. 

IV. Medical Local Duties. To the Ministry of 
Health would be referred all the work that is now 
carried out by the medical department under the 
control of the local Government Board. The duties 
of attending to vaccination throughout the kingdom, 
of reporting the outbreaks of epidemics, and of insti- 
tuting inquiries into injurious trades by which life and 
health are imperilled, would be under the direction of 
the Health department. By this same character of 
direction the Health minister, through the heads or 
chiefs of his office, would come into communication 
with the medical officers of health, of which body of 
gentlemen he would rank as the official head, and the 
labours of which he would direct into systematic order 
for the common good, without at all interfering with the 
local authorities for whom specially the labours are 
conducted. Above all, the Minister of Health would 
collate the leading facts connected with the work of 



1 8 A MINISTRY OF HEALTH. 

the various sanitary officers of the kingdom, and con- 
dense them, annually, into a form that would serve as 
a permanent history of the results of sanitary progress. 
To this end each local authority would send to him, at 
stated time, and always once annually, the report of 
its medical officer on the health of the whole district 
under its charge ; a report systematically arranged for 
ready reference, and for after-arrangement by the 
central department. 

At this moment some hundreds, if not thousands, 
of the most valuable reports of different medical 
officers of Health are scattered about in a manner that 
renders them, as a whole, practically useless ; so that 
questions which they, if they had been systematically 
studied, could answer at once in the most certain 
manner, have to be answered and answered again and 
again, each time at the cost of new labour and more 
money. If it were for no other purpose than to bring 
into official and perfect organisation the labours of 
the Medical Officers of Health, the Ministry of Health 
is urgently wanted. It is due to these admirable 
officers themselves, not less than to the country, to 
have their works officially and authoritatively super- 
vised and published. 

V. Adulteration Reports. The working of the 
Act that deals with the subject of adulteration, and 
that carries out public analyses, would of necessity be 



A MINISTRY OF HEALTH. 19 

brought under the direction of the Ministry of Health. 
The same observations that apply to the medical offi- 
cers of health hold good in respect to the public analysts. 
The reports of these gentlemen, reports, in many 
instances, of the utmost value, are scattered far and 
wide, and practically are useless, except for the local 
purpose they were originally intended to serve. Col- 
lected and systematically condensed, these reports 
would indicate, at regular intervals of time, the 
natural progress in the production of all articles of 
food and drink. 

Moreover, the section of the Health office to which 
I now refer would be most useful to the nation in 
other important ways. It would take under its direc- 
tion analyses of all kinds that are conducted for the 
common good. It would supervise the analyses of 
waters, and would be an authority to which the par- 
liamentary committees might at any time refer for 
arbitration and advice in cases of difficult evidence. It 
might even, with advantage, be a centre of reference in 
cases of poisoning, when the evidence of the analysts 
or experts was doubtful or conflicting. In relation 
to these matters the Government of the day has some- 
times had to appoint a temporary authority of its own, 
to which it could refer for skilled research and guidance. 
Under the plan I venture to suggest, every Govern- 
ment would at all times have at hand the authority 



20 A MINISTRY OF HEALTH. 

which it can now only appoint for a special occasion, 
and on which the public has no natural dependence, 
because it may have no practical or particular know- 
ledge of the attainments of the person or persons who 
have, for the moment, been appointed. 

VI. Factory Supervision. There is at present 
much confusion in the interworking of the Public 
Health Acts and the supervision of the factory hands 
under the Factory Acts. The factory medical in- 
spectors, who know the duties of sanitary work in the 
great manufactories better than any other class of 
men, and whose functions are of longest date, are 
crippled in their efforts by the circumstance that their 
supervision is too limited. It is of such vital impor- 
tance to the nation that the health of the great indus- 
trial population should be completely attended to, that, 
as it seems to me, all the sanitary supervision of the 
factory should be transferred, under proper regulations, 
to the factory surgeons. If this were done, the officers 
appointed under the new regulation would specially 
report to the Ministry of Health on the sanitation of 
the factories in the whole of the kingdom. I know of 
nothing that requires more serious consideration than 
this public question. It is at the present moment a 
critical question of the first order. The mortality 
incident to industrial pursuits is a drain on the national 
vital wealth which stands before emigration in impor- 



A MINISTRY OF HEALTH. 21 

tance, and is a source of silent disaffection which no 
one can comprehend who has not inquired into it with 
intelligence, and at some cost of labour. There are 
now nine hundred factory surgeons who know more 
about the vital state of the industries of England than 
all the legislators put together who have made up the 
legislative bodies of the present reign. But the work 
of these factory surgeons, as yet essentially local, or 
little more, is lost to the nation because there is no 
centre where the reports of it can be properly or 
effectively utilised. 

VII. Veterinary Supervision. To the Ministry 
of Health would be transferred what has hitherto 
been done by the Veterinary Department of the 
Privy Council. When the late Mr. Williams set that 
department in motion some years ago, the work was 
severely criticised by some of the most able men in 
veterinary science, and I fear it must be confessed 
that the work which has been carried out might have 
been very much elaborated and improved. At the 
same time it is a good idea to have an effective veteri- 
nary department connected with the State. Certainly 
a Ministry of Health would be most imperfect 
without it, and would be greatly advantaged by 
having it in union with itself. The health of the 
inferior creation of life is, in fact, so closely connected 
with human health, that one cannot be considered 



22 A MINISTRY OF HEALTH. 

without the. other ; while the whole question of the 
precise connections of both remains for investiga- 
tion. Apart from these philosophical considerations, 
there are immense commercial interests connected 
with the control of the epizootic diseases ; a control 
that cannot be perfectly exercised until, by the sys- 
tematic collection of knowledge, in a central office of 
the State, all the data relating to the origin, course, 
and management of those diseases are collated and 
made bases of knowledge for practical service. 

VIII. Prison and Police Supervision. To the 
Ministry of Health would naturally be referred the 
sanitary arrangements of prisons and of the establish- 
ments of police. The inspection of the prisons under 
such a central direction would, now that prisons are 
under Government control, be easy, orderly, and 
effective. In one comprehensive report we should 
gather, each year, the most valuable sanitary facts 
relating to the effects of discipline, diet, labour, 
regime, and perfected hygienic conditions in prisons 
in a way which has never been realised, and in a way 
which, by the very contrasts it would exhibit when 
it was placed by the side of other social histories, 
would be of inestimable interest and usefulness. 

IX. Supervision of Public Works. Lastly, to a 
Ministry of Health there would, of necessity, be 
attached a direction having reference to the sanitary 



A MINISTRY OF HEALTH. 23 

construction of all the public works that would be 
carried out by the Government at its instance and 
expense. This function would relate to public 
buildings chiefly, but it would include therewith 
many other works, such as the laying out of roads, 
parks and gardens after the most healthy fashion. It 
would, in fact, embrace all designs and works which 
are under the control of the Chief Commissioner of 
Public Works. In the carrying out of these plans the 
Government would be not only the servant of the 
public, but its example and its teacher. 

THE ORGANISATION. 

From what I have sketched it will be seen 
that in the proposed Ministry of Health there 
would be several divisions of labour. I should sug- 
gest that these might be reduced to six departments 
in chief. 

1. The Registration Department. In this would 
be included the registration of births, deaths, and 
marriages. The registration of disease. The registra- 
tion of coroners' returns. The registration of returns 
from the meteorological observatories. 

2. The Local Government Department. In this 
would be included the work now carried out by the 
Medical Department of the Local Government Board 



24 A MINISTRY OF HEALTH. 

with a complete system of Poor Law Sanitary In- 
spection. 

3. The Factory and Industrial Department. In 
this would be comprehended the sanitary supervision 
of factories. The regulation of age to labour. The 
inspection of industrial pursuits generally, in relation 
to the health of the industrials. 

4. The Analytical and Chemical Department. In 
this would be undertaken the superintendence of the 
Adulteration of Foods Act, and other proceedings of 
a chemical and analytical nature. 

5. The Veterinary Department. In this would be 
considered the diseases affecting the inferior animals. 
The condition of animals imported into the country. 
The cause, the course, and the prevention, of the 
epizootic diseases. 

6. The Prisons and Public Works Department. 
Under this department would be brought the sanitary 
condition of all prisons and other public buildings 
that are already existing. The construction, in a 
sanitary point of view, of new public buildings. The 
condition and construction, in a sanitary point of 
view, of the public roads, parks, and water supplies, 
with which the Government is specially concerned. 

To each of these Departments there would be a 
Chief. The whole, under the presidency of the 
Minister of Health, would form a Council of Health, 



A MINISTRY OF HEALTH. 25 

appointed by the Government, for the Government 
and the People. 

The Council, if it were properly selected, would 
have for its members, in addition to the Minister 
of Health, a Statistician, a Physician, a Factory 
Surgeon or Physician, a Chemist, a Veterinarian, and 
a Sanitary Architect and Engineer, with two other 
important officials to whom I shall by-and-by refer. 
In fact, every part of sanitary science would be fully 
represented ; and, if the salaries allotted to the chiefs 
of departments and their dependents were efficient, no 
country in the world would possess so perfect a sani- 
tary organisation. 

THE MINISTER OF HEALTH. 

One subject remains to be considered. I mean the 
position and functions of the Minister of Health, who 
would preside over the Department. 

At first sight it will occur to most minds, that, 
following the usual precedent, this Minister should be 
a Minister of State, changing, or liable to change, 
with every Government, and holding his office as a 
Chancellor of the Exchequer or other Minister of the 
Crown now holds his official appointment. 

The impression, however, in my mind, is that such 
a mode of appointment would not be for the best 
interests of the country, nor for the best interests of 



26 A MINISTRY OF HEALTH. 

the science of preserving health. The Health 
Minister would differ from other Ministers of the 
Crown in almost every particular. He could only 
carry out the duties of his office after a special train- 
ing for the performance of them. To leave his duties 
to the chiefs of departments would be to ignore them 
altogether, and to let the most useful parts of the 
office go by default, perhaps, at times when the union 
of 1 the different parts of the official work in one mind, 
and in one direction, was most imperative. 

Again, a Minister of Health ought not to be 
troubled with the active strife of parliamentary life. 
He, of all others, should' not be a busy party man. 
He should not be an administrator at all, but a 
director and adviser of the Government, of whatever 
party it might be composed. He should always be a 
learner and a director of learning. It should be his 
function to see that all facts in his departments were 
duly collated, prepared for publication, and published. 
It might often be his duty to take personal cognizance 
of facts to which his attention had been specially 
drawn. 

These functions would be incompatible with a 
mere passing ministerial career, and with the worry of 
parliamentary existence. 

At the same time it would be the worst of all 
policies to lower the office by any omission of the 



A MINISTRY OF HEALTH. 27 

honour and character that should belong to it. Much 
of the success of English policy has depended on the 
appreciation of the dignity of an office, even beyond 
the appreciation of the man who fills it. It is the 
office that is honoured, rather than the man who holds 
it. The man may be indifferent, but he must die ; 
while the office, being in perpetuity, remains the 
same. The rule should certainly apply to the new 
office to which I have directed attention ; and there 
are numerous methods by which the end could be so 
accomplished, that the post of Minister of Health 
should be one for which the most worthily ambitious 
might worthily labour. It would almost of necessity 
make its possessor a Member of the Privy Council ; and 
if it were found that the voice of the Minister of Health 
was required in one of the Legislative Assemblies, it 
would be as consistent to give to him a seat for life in 
the House of Lords as it has been to find a similar 
seat for the Bishops of the Church ; or, to give a more 
recent illustration, for the two Life Peers who have 
been taken from the legal profession to assist the 
Upper House in its deliberations. 

REPRESENTATION OF SCOTLAND AND IRELAND. 

It will be observed that in the above outline of 
a design for a Ministry of Health I have not specially 
referred to any part of the United Kingdom. The 



28 A MINISTRY OF HEALTH. 

plan may seem at first sight to relate to England 
alone. I intend it to relate to the United Kingdom, 
and I see no reason whatever why it should not do 
so. In Ireland and in Scotland there are already 
registration departments for births, deaths, and 
marriages ; and if to these existing offices, now so 
ably conducted, were added the registration of 
disease, the registration of the Coroners' returns for 
Ireland, and the returns of the public prosecutor for 
Scotland, together with the returns from the Meteo- 
rological observatories of both countries, the registra- 
tion of the United Kingdom would be complete. 
The records, as a whole, could be annually embodied 
in the work of the central department or Ministry of 
Health, to which body I should suggest that the 
Registrars-General for Ireland and Scotland should 
be added as members. 

It remains for me, Mr. Chadwick, to thank you, as 
President, and the other members of the Sanitary Insti- 
tute, for the honour conferred on me in inviting me to 
deliver one of the public addresses at this Congress. 
I have spoken on a subject which, sir, I know is one 
of your life-long studies ; a subject on which you have 
recently dwelt in a manner so comprehensive and clear 
that you have left little for anyone else to say. To that, 
your latest published effort, I respectfully direct the 
attention of all Sanitarians. My object has been less 



A MINISTRY OF HEALTH. 29 

ambitious, and at the same time less general, than 
yours. It has been an attempt to show that what is 
proposable by the sanitary scholar, if I may so express 
myself, is not merely proposable, but practicable. I 
have looked back at the course of sanitary science, as 
we for a long time have seen it together, in its pro- 
gress, and I have tried to look upon all the difficulties 
that lie in the way of the realization of our hopes, 
the hopes of securing some kind of national sanitary 
organization. From these two points of view the 
plan I have ventured to conceive is laid out. 

It is the duty of members of societies such as ours 
thus to learn and suggest. It is the duty of those 
who, for the time, stand over us and govern us, to 
consider our learning and suggestion when we tender 
what we have to say with due respect of expression 
and loyalty of intent. I have spoken, I hope, in this 
spirit, thinking of no parties in the State, but of the 
State as one party, waiting for perfection of Health 
in all its ranks and all its boundaries. We Sani- 
tarians 'serve and wait/ and therewith are content. 
We grudge no Prime Minister, no Cabinet, the endless 
honour and gratitude that would be earned by the 
device of a method that shall make the Health and 
thereby the Wealth of the Nation a primary and 
special care of the Government. We ask only that 
we may be permitted to see the desire of our hearts, 



30 A MINISTRY OF HEALTH. 

from which our labours have sprung, recognized ; and, 
that we may be the first to thank the political leader 
or leaders who shall embellish this present reign by 
the construction or introduction of a great measure 
for the Health of the Commonwealth. 

Some nineteen hundred years ago there died in 
tragic splendour a great Emperor who had made an 
era in the history of the world. It was his chiefest 
triumph that, having found the city from which he 
ruled a city of mud, he left it a city of marble. For 
nearly nineteen centuries the name of that great 
man has been kept alive, a household word, in one 
sentence, Saluti Augustse, by which has been typi- 
fied, not the man alone, but his era and the work of 
it. To salute those who should be greeted with the 
best of greetings, that motto, time out of mind, has 
been employed. I would not for a moment reduce 
its ancient and well-deserved honour ; but I would, if 
I could, let the work of this time eclipse it, so that 
henceforth Saluti Victoria^ should be the motto of a 
later and greater Era and Empire. 



II. 

WILLIAM HARVEY. 

A BIRTHDAY PROLOGUE. 

mecum. Let us think of a fine first of April 
morning, in the year of our Lord one thousand 
six hundred and twenty-nine, and let us in imagina- 
tion go into Smithfield, field of the noble army of 
martyrs, and a field which every stranger from the 
country new to London would surely visit. Then, 
as now, we see standing across one side of the square 
a great house for the reception and treatment of 
sick people. It is the house founded by Rahere, 
Bartholomew's Hospital. 

As we look at this house of the sick we see passing 
to it from another house on the western side of 
Smithfield, an energetic, brisk-stepping man, past the 
meridian of life, who evidently has business before him 
of importance. He is a little man, below the middle 
stature, and his face, which is round, is ' olivaster in 



32 WILLIAM HARVEY. 

colour, wainscot like.' His hair is raven black. His 
eyes are small, very black, and sparkling. His features 
are expressive of energy, vivacity, penetration, courage. 
His temperament, as we should say in these days, 
is nervous and bilious, the nervous preponderating. 
He is not really an irritable man, but quick and soon 
on fire. He wears a short dagger, as is the fashion 
of the day amongst gentlemen ; and there, at the door 
of the hospital, where he is now speaking with some 
other gentleman, friend or brother worker, he gets 
into an argument and, as you observe, unsheathes 
his little dagger automatically, and, holding it in his 
right hand, lays the flat surface of the blade across 
his left hand, as if clenching an argument, or directs 
the point, with energy, in some new direction, as 
suggesting a statement, reason, or qualification. You 
might think this an ebullition of temper, if you did 
not know the man. You soon see you are deceived. 
That polished movement and farewell indicates a 
thoroughbred gentleman, with no little affectation of 
courtly polish, and you observe that the friend spoken 
to departs smiling and satisfied. The friend is 
clearly proud of an interview, which he will not fail 
to talk of to his neighbours and family, for in the 
interest it has excited in his mind he almost forgets 
to pick his way over the big stones which loosely 
cover the rough pavement, and has nearly gone down 



WILLIAM HARVEY. 33 

on his nose. He must be careful. Everybody must 
be careful of tripping, physically as well as politically, 
in the reign of Charles the First. 

At a respectful distance, we will venture to follow, 
into the house of the sick, him in whom we have 
become so much interested. He is, we detect, treated 
with great reverence, and we quickly discover his 
vocation to be that of the healer of those who are 
there to be healed. He has removed his King 
Charles hat by this time, and has thrown off his 
loose cloak, whereby we are able to distinguish that 
the short stature of the man is not thrown out of 
symmetry by great girth of body and limb. He has 
a lithe and spare body, on which body is set a head 
of fine proportion. The forehead is high and broad ; 
the nose well chiselled and slightly Roman ; the 
cheeks flattened ; the lips compressed and thin ; the 
chin curved and pointed. From the extremity of the 
chin and lower line of the lower jaw depends a 
pointed, neatly-cut beard, and from the upper lip, 
curving gracefully down on each side, is what we 
moderns know as a moustache. The raven hair on 
the head is combed straight back in neat and comely 
style. 

The dress of our man is, according to the pro- 
fessional taste of the day, of rich black cloth. He 
has rather a full doublet, with sleeves cut somewhat 



34 WILLIAM HARVEY. 

after the manner of a professor's gown, light plaits at 
the shoulders, a loose band round the elbows, and a 
tighter band, rather broad, at the wrist, edged beyond 
by a white cambric border. The doublet is buttoned 
all the way up the chest, but is open at the throat ; 
and from out of it, overlapping the shoulders on each 
side, is a broad white collar, which sets off the fine 
dark face in striking contrast. The length of the 
doublet hides the cut of the nether garments, or 
breeches. The stockings are seen to be of black silk, 
seamed or ribbed. The boots, which reach far up 
the legs, stretching widely out, are fringed at the top, 
and are fitted neatly to the feet, high at heel and 
rounded at the toe. Round the waist is a loose band, 
from which, on the left side, the small fashionable 
and demonstrative dagger depends an instrument 
which is never used for warlike purposes, except in a 
battle of science or learning, and then only in harmless 
and silent eloquence of gesture. 

The healer, surrounded by his staff of attendants, 
makes his round. Patients, medical and surgical 
alike, come under his care, for he is a physician, and 
the physician is the be-all and end-all of physic 
in the time of the Stuarts. No great surgeons, like 
James Paget or Spencer Wells, have climbed in his 
day to the top of the tree of medical art ; but such 
as are then called surgeons follow their leader, and, 



WILLIAM HARVEY. 35 

acting merely as his handicraftsmen, do what he bids 
them with blind obedient skill. He is an exceptional 
physician, for now and again he will prefer to take 
the duties of the surgeons himself, and, with the true 
dexterity of an anatomist, will teach them some 
practical lesson in their craft. 

We see with what respect and admiration the man 
we accompany is followed. The dark eyes command 
the admiration. Is the admiration universal ? Is it 
possible that from every lip there is praise ? It had 
not been a man we were looking upon if this had 
been his fate ; and his fate it was not, for he was of 
man begotten and of woman born. So he was not 
altogether without his detractors. There crosses our 
path a busy, envious physician, who, disliking the 
admiration he observes, takes the first opportunity he 
gets of telling us that the man we are looking at is a 
good anatomist enough, but that, as a practical phy- 
sician, he would not give twopence for one of the 
man's bills, prescriptions, and cannot understand 
his ' therapeutique way.' In the hospital itself there 
is some little strife, for the great physician is expected 
soon to go out of the country for a long season on an 
important mission, and is anxious to leave behind him 
as a substitute, one Dr. Smith, while the governors of 
the institution, not having 'knowledge and satisfac- 
tion of the efficiency of Mr. Smith/ are determined to 



36 WILLIAM HARVEY. 

appoint Dr. Andrews to the office, whom by the way, 
in course of time, they do so appoint. Again, there 
is another person, an exceedingly knowing person, 
knowing and communicating, who gives us his views 
without telling us who he is or where he comes from ; 
but who tells us confidentially that the little man with 
the raven hair, olivaster face, piercing black eyes, and 
quick expression, is a ' crack-brained/ who thinks he 
has made a discovery that will render him immortal ; 
who has set Galen and all the masters right ; and 
who expects some other men, equally crack-brained 
perchance, to be writing about him hundreds of years 
to come. Fine joke for a man to entertain respecting 
himself. Crack-brained indeed, indeed ! 

Meanwhile, our observed of observers goes his 
round, caring as little what is said of him as of the 
gusts of wind which blow up the dry dust in the streets 
on that April morning. He does his duties, or, as a 
contemporary greater even than he, and whom at the 
time he knows much less of than he will have to 
know, is wont to say, ' he obeys his call,' and that is 
sufficient for him. 

The work in the house of the sick completed for 
the day, wounds dressed, prescriptions written, and 
directions given, the cloak and hat are resumed, and 
once more we follow our great man to the gateway 
leading into Smithfield. Now at the gate stands a 



WILLIAM HARVEY. 37 

handsome and handsomely caparisoned horse, with 
servants attending. He whom we follow springs 
lightly into the saddle, and with slow but steady pace, 
sitting his horse with much dignity, proceeds west- 
ward. Coming after him are two runners, who carry 
a carpet and keep in close attendance. The course 
taken is first into Holborn, which is crossed, down to 
the Fleet, and, turning to the right, straight away to 
St. James's Palace. Arrived there, the runners lay 
down the carpet at the entrance, and afterwards assist 
the rider, their master, to alight on it. Leaving his 
horse to their care, he enters the Palace as one who 
knows his way to its most secret and sacred recesses. 
The courtiers do him every honour, for his friend at 
Court is the chief man there. Nevertheless, even he 
must wait a brief period, in an ante-room, for the 
royal pleasure. 

At last the courtier-in-waiting summons him to 
the presence, and royal patient and royal physician 
meet. Into this secrecy we must not presume to 
intrude. The interview is not of long duration, but it 
is clear that between sovereign and subject there is 
the most cordial understanding ; for the king, none 
less, moves with the physician out of the audience- 
room, and speaks to him as to a friend in whom he 
is deeply interested, and to whom he offers his royal 
congratulations. 



38 WILLIAM HARVEY. 

At the palace gate the physician remounts and 
proceeds back to Smithfield, calling on one or more 
sick persons in his journey. Arrived at home, a 
frugal midday meal prepares him for other and 
equally important duties. 

His ride in the afternoon takes him in a different 
direction, citywards. He rides into the heart of the 
city, making further professional calls, and by-and-by 
alights at the office of a merchant, where he seems 
entirely at home. He passes through the place of 
business unchecked, and enters the private room of 
the owner, where he receives from two city men, each 
of position, a right brotherly gretting and best wishes 
for happy returns of the day. He calls one of these 
by his Christian name, Eliab, the other Daniel ; and 
they in turn, but with marked deference, as feeling 
favoured by the privilege, call him William. They 
talk, familiarly, of family matters ; and when the visitor 
proceeds to leave them, they accompany him to the 
door and stand beside him as he remounts, and con- 
verse to the last, when they bid him a truly affectionate 
farewell. Afterwards many merchants of character 
call on them that afternoon ; for it has reached the 
city that their brother has been with the king, and 
a king was a king with a vengeance in those days. A 
royal toothache was an event then that thrilled through 
the city ; and a word from royalty, at third hand only, 



WILLIAM HARVEY. 39 

were it ever so short, was an eventful event. Brother 
Eliab, when he reaches his private house at Roe- 
hampton in the evening, has still his admiring 
listeners, and Brother Daniel, when he reaches his 
residence at the village of Lambeth, has the same. 
They have gathered that William will, in a few 
months, possibly, go abroad for a season, with the 
Duke of Lennox, and this is court news from the 
fountain-head. 

The rider, on his part, makes his way to Amen 
Corner, and once more alights, this time at the famous 
Royal College of Physicians. Here he is again seen 
to be at home, and indeed he is in a position of great 
trust ; for he holds, as treasurer, the sinews of war. 
He is more than this, he is professor also ; and there 
have gathered together to meet him in the halls of 
the college, and to hear him discourse, many fellows 
and licentiates, the elects and censors, and the presi- 
dent. The professor puts his velvet gown on his 
shoulders, and following the richly-robed president, Dr. 
Argent, who is preceded by his mace-bearer, he enters 
the lecture-room, with all due solemnity, to stand 
once more before an admiring auditory. 

In delivering his lecture, which is on some subject 
relating to anatomy, our honoured professor speaks 
with equal energy, precision, and candour. He has 
no severe or contemptuous words for antagonists ; no 



40 WILLIAM HARVEY. 

unruly passion ; little appeal to mere argument ; 
great appeal to natural fact. He is most at home in 
demonstration, and refers rarely to the short notes in 
his private desk-book. In the course of his demon- 
stration he uses six natural diagrams of the nerves 
and blood-vessels of the human body. These parts 
have all been carefully dissected out and laid, each in 
natural order, on a large slab of wood, in which form 
they remain until the present hour. To point out the 
parts to which he would direct attention, the professor 
employs a whalebone rod about sixteen inches long, 
and tipped at its end with a silver point. Rod still 
extant. 

The lecture concluded, the friendly Fellows retire 
to their common hall, banquet together, and offer 
their honoured colleague their best wishes on so 
auspicious a day. Their friend enjoys these simple 
feasts, and leaves a message, treasured by Fellows to 
this very hour, that such good friendship should ever 
be encouraged and maintained. 

The banquet of these grave yet hearty men and 
scholars is not prolonged, and as the evening draws to 
its close, the physician anatomist returns to his home. 
But his work is not finished. He has a library of 
considerable value ; a rare collection of curiosities ; a 
cabinet of precious manuscripts ; and arrangements 
in which some kind of natural experimentation can, 



WILLIAM HARVEY. 41 

at spare moments like these, be followed up. We 
may take a final glance at him ere he retires for the 
night. No child breaks in on his studies, for he is 
childless, and his wife is so inobtrusive that she 
distracts him little. He busies himself, in these quiet 
hours, in arranging his literary work, or in experiment ; 
and finally he takes up the work of another physician, 
who is to him the perfection of authors. His Virgil 
is his vigil, and all his soul wonders as once again he 
reads : 

Principio coelum ac terras camposque liquentes, 
Lucentemque globum Lunse, Titaniaque astra 
Spiritus intus alit ; totamque infusa per artus 
Mens agitat molem, et magno se corpore miscet. 

Good night, philosopher ! We will leave you to 
go to your rest. Even your watchful eyes must 
sleep. Good night ! 

FROM BIRTH TO FAME. 

The man with whom we have so far communed as 
closely as the living can, through history, commune 
with the dead, was passing, in that first day of April 
1629, through his fifty-second birthday. 

He was born on April I, 1578, and the first of 
April of this year 1878, the day on which our revived 
picture of him is published, marks the tercentenary of 
his birth. 



42 WILLIAM HARVEY. 

The name of the man was William Harvey. The 
grand lifework of the man was the complete disco- 
very of the circulation of the blood. 

At the time we have been led to make his ac- 
quaintance, Harvey was in the throes of immortality. 
Hardly a year agone he had published a work in 
which he had claimed to have demonstrated the 
motion of the heart and blood through the body. 
The work had had time to extend and become 
known, and throughout the world of learning, at home 
and abroad, it had spread the fame of its learned 
author. The time had not yet come for cavil, for the 
work had hardly been comprehended in detail. It 
stood for astonishment, in anticipation of criticism. 
Sufficient of it had, nevertheless, been seen to insure 
for its writer that he could never be forgotten. He 
had carved the name of William Harvey into all 
languages that were written, and had sent it forth into 
all days that were to come. In what degree of 
dignity, honour, and praise he had sent it forth might 
then be doubtful, but for good or for bad it had been 
stamped in the mint of the learned, and had been 
issued as accepted coin. We shall have to ask by- 
and-by what the value of the coin was. Previous to 
this it were well to look at the man from his youth, 
and see how and why he stepped into the place he had 



WILLIAM HARVEY. 43 

won at fifty-one years of age. Our narrative on this 
point shall be as brief as true brevity can permit. 

The lady who gave birth to William Harvey was, 
in her maiden state, one Joan Halke. His father, 
Thomas Harvey, was a Kentish yeoman. His native 
village was Folkestone, in Kent. He was the first- 
born of his parents. He ran about for ten years, and 
then went to the grammar school at Canterbury, 
where he remained till he was made fit for Cambridge, 
and in May 1593 he was entered as a student at Caius 
College, with physic before him as his profession. 
What he learnt at Cambridge besides the classics is 
not known, but in 1597 he obtained his degree of 
Bachelor of Arts, and left the university. He now 
went to Padua, the more efficiently to learn the sci- 
ence and art of physic, and he remained at his studies 
at this famous school five years, occasionally visiting 
Venice. At Padua he was the pupil of the anatomist, 
Fabricius of Aquapendente, a most approved master. 
Five years were here passed. He took at Padua his 
degree of Doctor in Medicine and Surgery. Thus 
entitled, he returned to his native land, took up also 
his M.D. at Cambridge, and, entering London, settled 
down to practice. In 1604 he was admitted to the 
Royal College of Physicians, and in 1607 he was 
elected a Fellow of that College. 



44 WILLIAM HARVEY. 

It is clear that, in starting out in his professional 
career, Harvey had fewer difficulties to meet than 
most men who have become eminent in science. A 
man who could afford to spend five years as a student 
in Padua, who could take up his honours, without any 
other trouble than the mere preparation for the ordeal 
of examination, must surely have had means of an 
ample kind. His parents, indeed, seem to have been 
persons of competency ; and five of his brothers, 
Thomas, Daniel, Eliab, Michael, and Matthew, being 
merchants, carrying on trade with Turkey and the 
Levant, we have fair evidence that he entered profes- 
sional life with little anxiety as to his future in a 
pecuniary point of view. We may presume, further, 
that he had early in his career much personal influence, 
and that he took position and practice more speedily 
than falls to the lot of most Esculapians. 

Some time, and not many years, after his entrance 
into London, Harvey married the daughter of Dr. 
Lancelot Browne. This, again, shows prosperity and 
favour on his side, since Dr. Browne was a man of 
consequence in his day. In 1609 he applied for the 
office of physician to St. Bartholomew's Hospital, then 
held by Dr. Wilkinson. In this contest he had the 
assistance of letters of recommendation from the king, 
James I., and, as his request was granted, he was tempo- 
rarily elected to do work for Dr. Wilkinson. Wilkinson 



WILLIAM HARVEY. 45 

died the same year, and Harvey was promoted in his 
stead. 

From letters relating to this election, it seems that 
John Harvey, a younger brother of William, was one 
of the king's footmen, an office of honour in those 
times. This fact may account for the royal influence 
exerted in behalf of William in his Bartholomew's 
Hospital election, and for his introduction to court, 
subsequently, as a Court Physician. 

In 1615, Harvey was chosen to deliver the lectures 
on Anatomy and Surgery at the Royal College of 
Physicians. These lectures had been founded by Dr. 
Richard Caldwell. Caldwell, a Staffordshire man, 
was born in the year 1513, and died in 1585. He 
was a graduate of Oxford, and in 1570 was made 
President of the London College of Physicians. His 
contributions to medical literature were few. One 
translation of his, of little importance, remains. It is 
Horatio More's 'Tables of Surgery.' His reputation 
consists in his having founded the chair above 
named. 

It is presumed that Harvey commenced his de- 
monstrations of the circulation of the blood in the 
first course of lectures ever delivered by him at the 
Royal College, viz., in April 1615. This may be so. 
The statement, however, is an historical hypothesis. 
It is at the same time certain that, in succeeding 



46 WILLIAM HARVEY. 

courses, he took pains to illustrate his labours on this 
subject more and more fully ; for in his preface to 
the work on the motions of the heart and blood, he 
speaks of having demonstrated the views it contains 
for nine years, in his anatomical lectures at the 
College, and he appeals to the accomplished president 
and other members as witnesses of the truth of his 
explanations. 

By the year 1623 Harvey had so far risen in repu- 
tation that he was chosen Physician Extraordinary to 
King James. Surely no other English king ever had so 
extraordinary a physician. When James died, Harvey 
continued to hold the same office to Charles, from 
whom, as Dr. Willis observes, he received many 
favours and much assistance, I may say, sympathy. 
As well as to the king, he was medical adviser to 
Lord Bacon, and others of the illustrious of the time ; 
but as he was too scientific for the vulgar, and a simple 
truth speaker, he gained the honours of science, while 
he lost the character of practical physician. Had he 
lived now, it were the same. 

It was not until the year 1628 that the great work 
on the motion of the heart and blood appeared. Its 
author had by this time matured his views ; he was 
master of the subject, and in what he had to say he 
could feel that every sentence was a demonstration. 
Perhaps nothing could have indicated the clearness of 



WILLIAM HARVEY. 47 

his judgment better than the pains he took not to 
rush into print until his designs were completed, and 
his own mind could take in some of the fulness of his 
own discoveries. 

When the book at last came to light, it was a de- 
monstration so pure, so clear, so positive, that even now 
the man who shall have learnt the facts of the circula- 
tion of the blood from his boyhood shall find an inability 
to describe them with equal precision and power. There 
is not a faltering step at any point. The argument is 
a pure specimen of practical inductive reasoning ; and 
Dr. Willis wisely observes that " had Lord Bacon written 
his ' Novum Organum ' from Harvey's work as a text, 
he could scarcely have expressed himself otherwise than 
he has done, or given other rules for philosophising 
than those which he has laid down in his celebrated 
treatise." 



THE HARVEIAN DISCOVERY. 

That which was discovered by Harvey has been 
known since his time as the plan of the double circulation 
of the blood through the human body: the circulation 
of the blood through the lungs from the right to the 
left side of the heart, or the lesser circulation ; and the 
circulation of the blood from the left side of the heart 
over the body back to the right side of the heart, or 



48 WILLIAM HARVEY. 

the greater circulation. The courses of the circulation 
in these two directions he made so clear, that none 
but those who would not see could fail to discern. 
Beyond this he completely expounded the mechanism 
of the heart, showed the independence of the right 
and left sides, and indicated the true motions of the 
heart by which the blood is received, directed, and 
propelled. Much that was purely anatomical had 
been discovered before the time of Harvey in respect 
to the circulatory apparatus. Hippocrates had de- 
clared that the heart is a muscular organ. Herophilus, 
who lived in the time of the first Ptolemy, had dis- 
tinguished that the pulmonary veins partake of the 
character of the arteries, and had given them the title 
of arterial veins. Galen had assumed that the blood is 
moved from the heart, but he taught that the two 
sides of the heart are not truly separated, and that the 
blood held in the two sides is admixed through or 
within the muscular septum between the ventricles, and 
that from the ventricles the blood ascends to meet in 
the extreme parts, and returns back to the heart by 
the same channels, to meet once more and admix in 
the heart. 

These ideas respecting the circulation of the blood, 
false as they were in some respects, were not without 
their uses. They suggested movement of blood to 
and from the heart, and they defined the order of 



WILLIAM HARVEY. 49 

vessels, veins and arteries, with a connecting centre to 
them, the central heart. 

There was another anatomist, moreover, who a 
short time before the birth of Harvey had most of all 
distinctly cleared the way for him and his discoveries. 
I refer to Vesalius, the father of modern anatomy. 
I have recently been studying afresh the labours of 
this most remarkable man, and the wonder to my 
mind is that he should have missed the discovery of 
the circulation. He disposed of the Galenic view of 
the porous character of the septum of the ventricles. 
His delineation of the valvular mechanism of the 
heart, of the larger valves between the auricles and 
the ventricles, and of the smaller or semilunar valves 
at the roots of the greater vessels, of which I subjoin 
faithful copies from his own original work, shows 
how well he understood the valvular mechanism of the 
heart. 

His delineation of the blood-vessels passing from 
the right side of the heart over the lungs, of which 
the third drawing is a correct representation, proves 
how carefully he had traced out the course of the 
pulmonary vessels into the lungs. 

His delineation of the blood-vessels passing from 
the lungs into the left side of the heart, carefully 
presented in the fourth drawing of page 51, indicates 



50 WILLIAM HARVEY. 

how definitely he had traced the course of the blood- 
channels back from the lungs into the heart. 

Lastly, his delineation of the arteries or out-going 
vessels of the body from the heart, and of the accom- 
panying and returning veins, a true copy of which 
delineation is supplied on page 53, amply declare 
how completely Vesalius had unravelled the anato- 
mical network of the circulatory canals, and had 
followed out their courses from and to their centre. 

After Vesalius came Harvey's own anatomical 
master, Fabricius of Aquapendente, who discovered 
the existence of valves in the veins, and showed that 
those valves were intended to prevent the blood falling 
back, as it is making its way from the extremities 
towards the heart. 

It ought to be admitted, with perfect candour, that 
to these anatomists Harvey was indebted for his basic 
knowledge of the circulation. He might have been 
indebted to some others ; but to introduce their names 
at this point would be to anticipate the question of 
the originality of his discovery, for the consideration 
of which I reserve a special part. 

In these days of learning, it is very easy indeed to 
understand the circulation of the blood. Every well- 
informed schoolboy, on looking at the blue veins in 
his body, knows that they and all veins carry blood to 
the right side of his heart. He can tell easily enough 




DELINEATION OF THE VALVULAR MECHANISM OF THE HEART- 
AFTER VESALIUS. 




DELINEATION OF VESSELS FROM THE RIGHT SIDE OF THE HEART 
TO THE LUNGS, AND FROM THE LUNGS TO THE LEFT SIDE OF 
THE HEART AFTER VESALIUS. 




DELINEATION OF VEINS AND 
ARTERIES AFTER VESALIUS. 



WILLIAM HARVEY. 55 

that the blood reaching the heart by the veins enters 
into the little ear shaped cavity of the heart, called 
the right auricle. He can explain that this auricle, 
contracting when it is full, drives the blood into the 
right ventricle, and that the blood cannot get back 
into the auricle because three curtains, acting as 
valves, and opening into the ventricle, bar the way 
backward. He can define that the right ventricle, 
when it is filled with blood, contracts, and that, being 
prevented from driving the blood into the auricle, it 
drives it through a large blood-vessel, the pulmonary 
artery, into the lungs. He can describe how, at the 
mouth of this blood-vessel, three little half-moon- 
shaped valves let the current of blood pass on to the 
lungs, but prevent, by their closure downwards, any 
return into the ventricle. He can follow the course 
of the blood over the lungs, trace it from them, by the 
four returning pulmonary veins, into the little left 
auricle of the heart. He can show that this auricle, 
when it contracts on its contents, drives its charge 
into the strong left ventricle beneath it. He can de- 
scribe how the filled ventricle, contracting on its blood, 
is prevented from driving it again into the auricle, 
owing to the interposition of two large curtain valves, 
which open into the ventricle and close the cavity 
from the auricle above, during the ventricular con- 
traction. He can describe that the blood, under the 



$6 WILLIAM HARVEY. 

force of the ventricular contraction, impels its charge 
into a great out-going artery called the aorta, at the 
mouth of which artery are placed three other half- 
moon-shaped valves to prevent return of blood into 
the ventricle. Lastly, from the aorta he can trace 
the blood over the whole body, pulse by pulse, 
with every stroke of the heart, until it returns again 
in steady current by the veins to the centre from 
which it started in its course, and which is ready to 
receive it and propel it on in successive circulation. 

So simple is all this now, that a schoolboy may 
describe it. It is so easy, that at this day it becomes 
very difficult even to shadow forth all the obstacles 
which stood in the way of the Harveian discovery of 
the problem of the circulation. And yet the obstacles 
were enormous. The doctrine of vital spirits, wrapt 
up in all the mysterious rags of mythology, had to 
be torn down. Mechanical arrangements, simplest 
of the simple, required an explanation, to meet and 
supplant the subtle dogmas of tides and fluxes. A 
number of holes which did not exist between the sides 
of the heart had, notwithstanding Vesalius, still to be 
sealed up by man as well as by nature. The pulse- 
beat had to be disconnected from the breathing as its 
cause, and assigned to the heart. The so-called 
systole, or driving-forth stroke of the heart, had to be 
turned into the diastole or filling of the heart, and the 



WILLIAM HARVEY. 57 

so-called diastole into the systole. The chorda ten- 
dince, or fine threads, which hold down the larger 
valves, had to be proved to be mechanical cords, not 
nerves. The simultaneous action of the two auricles 
and of the two ventricles of the heart had to be made 
clear ; the four motions distinct in point of place, the 
two motions distinct in point of time. And, again, 
the existence of a circuit of blood, from the left heart 
into the arteries, from the arteries into the veins, from 
the veins into the right heart, from the right heart 
into the lungs, from the lungs into the left heart, and 
so on and on continually, had to be fully explained, 
to be seen first and afterwards demonstrated. To 
grasp the completeness of the Harveian exposition, 
in short, it must be read in its entirety ; read as a 
method, not less keenly than as a description. The 
beauty of it is, that it is all proved, as far as a man in 
his day could prove the fact. He did not see dead 
quiescent anatomy only, but living moving, anatomy. 
The two auricles at the inverted base of the heart 
were not to him mere receptacles in open communi- 
cation with the veins from the body and with the veins 
from the lungs : they were contracting receptacles 
filling with blood and sending the blood into the 
ventricles, filling simultaneously, contracting simul- 
taneously, and, while contracting, pushing their fluid 
contents into the relaxing ventricles beneath them. 



58 WILLIAM HARVEY. 

Again, those two larger cavities of the heart, the 
ventricles, with the thick septum between them, were 
not to him mere pouches communicating with the 
auricles and receiving their blood. They were filling 
and contracting parts also ; .they filled as the auricles 
emptied ; they filled simultaneously and contracted 
simultaneously ; and they filled the two circulations, 
the lesser or pulmonic, the greater or systemic, simul- 
taneously. 

There are valves opening downwards from the 
mouths of the auricles into the ventricles on each side, 
and there are valves opening upwards from the mouths 
of the great vessels, and the functions of these valves, 
as described above, had to be demonstrated. 

This demonstration was the work of William 
Harvey. 

THE HARVEIAN CLAIM. 

When the clamour with which the work of Harvey 
was received had died away in great measure, his 
position was somewhat- as follows. There was a 
general steady belief that he had made a great dis- 
covery. There was a limited but sturdy belief that 
he had not. There was a rumour that the man was 
a little touched in the upper storey. There was a 
confidence that he was a theorist, and that the lives 
of the lieges were not safe in his professional hands. 
His practice therefore dwindled. 



WILLIAM HARVEY. 59 

It is a grand feature in the character of Harvey, 
that he met his objectors with the decision and calm- 
ness of a silent spectator. His converse was with 
Nature, not men. He construed to men what Nature 
opened to him, for their benefit, not for his own 
glorification. So long as this communion with his 
divine mistress was perfect, what to him was the 
prating of the ignorant ? He let them have their say, 
therefore, knowing them wrong, and replied but to 
Riolan, and one or two others whose obstinacy was 
most wonderful. He replied to these even, not from 
himself, but from Nature. He did not say ' I believe/ 
but * I know.' He did not whine out, ' Listen to this 
argument/ but said in a word, ' Look at these facts, 
and if you choose to deny the 'demonstrable, I have 
nothing further to say to you.' 

When the natural law revealed by him was estab- 
lished beyond controversy, a new phase occurred. 
The charge of plagiarism was thrown in his teeth. 
He made no reply. No ! not a word. He could 
trust to history for vindication, and wait. His rest in 
this respect has been long, for the imputation has 
never yet been fairly committed to solemn burial. 

In defending Harvey from the charge of plagiarism, 
or in accusing him of plagiarism, a little knowledge 
of history and of the meaning of discovery is required. 
They who think that Harvey took up, in his labours 



60 WILLIAM HARVEY. 

on the circulation, a subject de novo, and worked it 
out to its ultimate position, err, in that they argue on 
an impossibility ; for there never yet was such a dis- 
coverer, and never can be. They who maintain that 
a man who projects a great principle is not a disco- 
verer, because the elements of the discovery are in 
his hands, err also, because no man can work out a 
principle without details. 

But let us be patient, and hear two or three of the 
most striking charges against the claims of Harvey to 
originality in the discovery of the circulation. The 
first charge brought against him originated in his 
lifetime. Its hero was Father Paul, Sarpi of Venice, 
a Servite, and the historian of the Council of Trent. 
Father Paul was one of the bravest of the liberal 
thinkers of his time but cautious withal, and, to out- 
ward form, obedient to the Church. To him is 
attributed by his admirer, Fra Fulgenzio, and some 
other friends, the discovery of the valves in the veins 
and of the circulation. There is not a shadow of 
proof that Father Paul knew anything of anatomy. 
Still, so it is said, he made this discovery. He was 
not able to make known his research, because he 
lived next door to the Inquisition, and because 
certain of his colleagues already suspected that if 
they could only get off the good man's hose, 
they would find the first stage of the cloven foot 



WILLIAM HARVEY. 61 

beneath. Thus frightfully placed, and open to the 
gravest suspicions, Father Paul was mum just suf- 
ficiently mum to save his orthodoxy and lose his 
honours. For, alack-a-day ! when the good man's 
scientific heart was overflowing with his immortal 
find, he communicated it, in the dead silence of 
private friendship, to the anatomist Fabricius. Fa- 
bricius himself, desiring no inquisitorial change of 
climate, kept the secret long, hard, and fast. At 
length a pertinacious young Englishman, named 
Harvey, visited Padua, and ingratiated himself so far 
into the good graces of Fabricius, that to him the 
fact was revealed, Father Paul himself taking part 
in the disclosure. The Englishman opened his eyes ; 
read, marked, learned, and inwardly digested ; re- 
turned quickly to free England ; and, awarding to 
Fabricius the discovery of valves in the veins, claimed 
to himself the greater problem of the circulation, and 
generously saved the Father from the wheel by ignor- 
ing him altogether. 

This is the Father Paul story, the true reading of 
which is, that a copy of Harvey's book, after its pub- 
lication, fell into Father Paul's hands ; that the father, 
interested in it, made notes from it of the discovery ; 
that the notes were found among his writings after his 
death ; and that those copies were cleverly transformed 
into the history of an original discovery. 



2 WILLIAM HARVEY. 

Another priestly author, who has been described 
as the discoverer of the circulation and the anticipator 
of Harvey, is Nemesius, who became converted to 
Christianity about the close of the fourth century. 
Nemesius, after his conversion, was made Bishop of 
Emissa, and wrote a book on the nature of man, which 
was republished at Oxford in English dress in the 
year 1671. This book is remarkable for its meta- 
physics rather than its physics ; but there are passages 
in it which have been supposed to contain the facts of 
the circulation. The only passages which can possibly 
give rise to such an opinion are : 1st, a sentence in 
which the author says that the pulse-beat originates 
in the left ventricle of the heart, this being dilated 
and contracted regularly : 2nd, that during the dila- 
tation the ventricle draws the thin blood from the 
next veins, which blood forms the food of the vital 
spirits : 3rd, that during the contraction the ventricle 
throws out whatever vapours it has through the whole 
body, which vapours are expelled by the mouth and 
nose in expiration. We need not hesitate to throw 
over this assumed discovery. There is in it no trace 
of a circulation. 

That immortal heretic of the sixteenth century, 
Michael Servetus, is another writer to whom the 
discovery of the circulation has been accredited. 
Without quoting in full the passage which has been 



WILLIAM HARVEY. 63 

copied and recopied till it has become hackneyed, I 
am free to confess that Servetus knew the pulmonic 
circulation, and I cannot quite agree with the learned 
Willis in his mode of discussing Servetus. Dr. Willis, 
the translator of the works of Harvey, argues that 
Servetus suggested the course of the blood through 
the lungs as a mere hypothetical proposal for getting 
over the difficulty of the solid or nearly solid septum 
of the ventricles. I think Servetus saw the trans- 
mission clearly enough, and argued it out, not on the 
point of the impossibility of a solid mid-wall, but on 
the fact of the relative size of the vessels of the right 
and left sides of the heart. Nay, he had knowledge 
of a change in the colour of the blood in the lungs, as 
a result of the admixture of air and blood in those 
organs. It is therefore true that Servetus knew the 
pulmonic course of the blood from the right to the 
left side of the heart. But as we find him ignorant 
of the continuous current in this course, and of a 
current from arteries to veins, as well as of all true 
knowledge of the heart as a propelling organ, we 
must season our admiration of him with the conviction 
that the circulation of the blood would never have 
been understood from his delineation. 

Another assumed discoverer of the circulation has 
been brought forward in these days by Mr. Joseph 
Sampson Gamgee. The discoverer in this case is 



64 WILLIAM HARVEY. 

Carlo Ruini, a veterinary surgeon, whose work on 
the Anatomy of the Horse was published in 1599. 
That this claim may be fully understood, I subjoin a 
literal translation of Ruini's description, on which 
Mr. Gamgee founds his advocacy. The passage is 
from the Venetian edition of Ruini's work (1599), vol. 
i. lib. ii. pp. 108-110: 

" The office of these ventricles is : of the right one, 
to dispose the blood, so that of it may be generated the 
spirits of life, and the lungs be nourished ; of the left, 
to receive the blood so disposed, and convert a part 
of it into the spirits which give life, and send the 
remainder, together with those spirits, through the 
arteries, to all parts of the body. In one and in the 
other ventricle are two mouths or openings ; through 
those of the right enters the blood of the great vein 
or cava, and goes out by the arterial vein ; and 
through those of the left ventricle the blood enters 
accompanied by the air prepared in the lungs through 
the venal artery, which blood, all made spirituous and 
most perfect in the left ventricle, goes (guided by the 
great artery) to all parts of the body, the lungs 
excepted, to impart to them heat, which gives life. 
Every one of these holes of the heart has at its mouth 
three little curtains, called Jiostidi by the Greeks ; 
some of them are turned inwards, others outwards. 
At the mouth of the first hole which is seen in the 



WILLIAM HARVEY. 65 

right ventricle, to which is conjoined the great vein or 
cava, is a curtain or thin membrane, which completely 
surrounds the hole, and, advancing somewhat towards 
the concavity of the ventricle, divides into three 
curtains, each of which finish, as in a point of a 
triangle, a little above the middle of the ventricle, 
and from each of these points arise some nervous 
threads which are inserted into the sides of the 
ventricle towards its end. These curtains were there 
placed by nature in order that, in opening when the 
heart widens, they might allow the blood to enter 
from the great vein into the right ventricle, and that 
when the heart retracts they might, by shutting the 
first hole, prevent the same blood there entered 
through the great vein from re-entering it, instead 
of going out through the arterial vein. The curtain 
which is at the second hole of the same right ventricle 
to which the arterial vein is attached is not made of 
a simple curtain, but is divided into three very dis- 
tinct ones, each of which commences in form of half 
a circle from the trunk of the arterial vein, growing 
considerably thicker from its commencement, and 
widening out from the heart, and as it becomes 
thicker it forms some tubercles, which are impressed 
in the highest part of the heart ; from these tubercles 
arise three curtains, each of which is in the shape of 
a half-moon, without being attached to the heart or to 



66 WILLIAM HARVEY. 

any other part. As these three curtains open, they 
let the blood pass out through the arterial vein to the 
lungs, and when the heart widens prevent the blood 
returning into the right ventricle, through the mouth 
of the open arterial vein. Almost in the same 
manner as in the first hole of the right ventricle, 
another curtain is placed at the commencement of 
the first hole of the left ventricle, from which arises the 
venal artery which is distributed to the lungs, but does 
not divide into three but only into two parts, which 
are very wide above, and end in a solid point which 
descends considerably lower down than the points of 
the curtains of the right ventricle, and are larger and 
stronger than these ; and one of them occupies the 
left side, the other the right of this ventricle. Their 
office is, on opening when the heart widens, to allow 
the blood and the spirits to enter the left ventricle 
from the venal artery, and when the heart retracts to 
prevent the blood and spirit again returning into the 
venal artery. To the three curtains of the second 
hole of the right ventricle correspond the three which 
are placed at the mouth of the second hole of the left 
ventricle, to which the great artery is attached ; the 
curtains of the two sides are altogether similar, except 
that the left ones are much larger and stronger, as 
the geat artery is also larger than the arterial vein. 
When the heart retracts, these curtains open and allow 



WILLIAM HARVEY. 67 

the vital spirit to pass out with the blood, which goes 
with impetus into the great artery; and when the 
heart widens, they, by shutting the hole, prevent the 
spirit and the blood re-entering the ventricle." 

Such is the description of Carlo Ruini, and a 
wonderful description it is. The merits of Ruini 
are : I. That he had a consummate knowledge of 
the anatomy of the heart. 2. That he had a shrewd 
notion, derived evidently from a study of the me- 
chanism of the heart, of the course of the current of 
blood through the heart. No more. If Servetus may 
be said to have known the pulmonic circuit, Ruini may 
be said to have known the pulmonic and the cardiac 
circuits. Here he stopped. Of the grand scheme of 
the two circulations, with the heart as their centre, 
their connecting organ, and their common forcing 
machine, and of the blood-stream always going on, 
of the endless blood-chain, of these things, Ruini 
knew no more than his fellows, nor would the circu- 
lation ever have been comprehended if the physiology 
of the heart and blood had remained where he left it. 

In a sentence, Ruini gave a true description of the 
circulation, with this distinctive character, that his 
circulation is altogether a dead thing, calling for 
animation to make it a perfected discovery. 

Ruini dealt with, there remain three other claim- 
ants who have a right to some notice. These are : 



63 WILLIAM HARVEY. 

Fabricius, the master of Harvey ; Rcaldus Columbus; 
and Caesalpinus of Arezzo. 

Fabricius has the credit of discovering the uses of 
the valves in the veins, and to him Harvey accords 
the fullest credit. Of his claim as the discoverer of 
the whole problem of the circulation, nothing affirma- 
tive can be declared from anything he has left behind 
him in way of proof. 

Realdus Columbus deserves more credit. He 
knew that the blood from the body passes by the 
two great veins, the inferior and superior vena cavce, 
into the right auricle, thence into the right ventricle, 
thence into the lungs : from the lungs into the left 
auricle, from the left auricle into the left ventricle, 
and from the left ventricle, by the great aorta, over 
the body. He also argued and the argument was 
of use to Harvey that the large quantity of blood 
which is carried to the lungs by the pulmonary artery 
could never be intended for the mere nourishment of 
two such small organs as the lungs. Columbus made 
an advance by which he got very near to the truth ; 
but he did not discover the circulation of the blood. 
He had no true conception of the heart as the 
propelling organ ; he had no idea of the steady cir- 
cuitous current, unbroken and ever in motion. All 
honour nevertheless to him, for his labours assisted 
Harvey. 



WILLIAM HARVEY. 69 

The last man of the three above named, Caesal- 
pinus of Arezzo, is the one whom the modern Italians 
have most delighted to honour as the true discoverer 
of the circulation of the blood. They have recently 
erected a monument to his memory, and on it have 
stamped a merit which they would fain deny to the 
English Harvey. For my part, I am second to no 
Italian in my deep and earnest admiration of the great 
school of anatomy which Italy produced in the six- 
teenth and seventeen centuries. But justice enforces 
that this claim for Csesalpinus shall not be permitted. 
He is indeed behind Columbus, and far behind Ruini 
in the race of discovery. 

Concerning the anatomy of the circulation Caesal- 
pinus knew the same as Ruini, the same as Columbus. 
To this he added the further knowledge, that if a 
vein be compressed it fills and swells at the part 
below the ligature ; that is to say, at the part the 
other side of the ligature from the heart. But 
whether so much value is to be attached to the 
knowledge of that fact as is declared for it, may 
well be doubted. It was a fact that had been known 
ever since the practice of abstracting blood from a 
vein had been carried out a fact which every barber 
surgeon demonstrated whenever he put on the fillet 
to fill the vein that had to be punctured by the lancet. 
It may certainly be allowed to pass without attributing 



70 WILLIAM HARVEY. 

to it anything that carries the claim of discovery of 
the circulation of the blood. 

The staunch advocates of the claims of Csesalpinus 
would not, probably, say much about this matter of 
the filling of a vein. They have a much stronger 
point of defence, in that their man made use of the 
magic word ' circulation/ It is true he did use that 
word, and he also used another word after Servetus, 
viz., ' anastomosis/ or the opening of blood-vessels the 
one into the other ; by the use of which terms he might 
at first sight seem to have solved the whole problem. 

That Caesalpinus missed the discovery altogether 
is clear as the sun at noon, from his own works. He 
actually disputes the statement of Hippocrates, that 
the heart is a muscle. He clings to the old notion 
that the septum of the ventricles is porous. He 
ascribes the cause of the swelling of the filleted or 
ligatured vein to an effort on the part of the blood 
to get back to its centre, lest it should be cut off 
and suffocated. He makes the motion of the blood 
like the Euripus, a wave-like motion, to and fro, as 
the ancients described it. To these errors many more 
could be added. They are amply sufficient to show 
that Caesalpinus had no conception of the motion of 
the heart and blood, as that motion was recognised 
after the Harveian announcement. 

And now, although the learned Willis names 



WILLIAM HARVEY. 71 

sixteen other claimants, from Plato up to Harvey, I 
think I have touched on all claimants who are worthy 
of notice. No ! there is one more. Our own Shake- 
speare has been adduced as a discoverer of the circu- 
lation. A speech of Brutus to Portia, the speech 
of Warwick over the dead body of Gloucester, begin- 
ning : 

Oft have I seen a timely parted ghost ; 

and one or two other passages, have led the Shake- 
spearian idolaters to put forward their idol. They 
might as well award him the discovery of the stetho- 
scope, because he makes Hamlet say : 

My pulse as yours doth temperately keep time, 
And makes as healthful music. 

I need not linger on this argument. It is no discredit 
to Shakespeare to say he was not an anatomist ; no dis- 
honour to him to say he was not omniscient ; no false- 
ness to him to declare he did not even assist in the 
discovery of the circulation. What he knew on the 
subject belonged to that mystical pre-scientific learn- 
ing to which he was so wedded. What he says is more 
like a reflex of the saying of Nemesius of Emissa, than 
of any other writer : some prose passage of that sort 
put into his exquisite verse to suit one of his passing 
ideals, and having no nearer relation to the discovery 
of the circulation of the blood than the beautiful 
mirage has to the city for which it is mistaken. 



72 WILLIAM HARVEY. 

Does the reader ask what, beyond all these men 
and others whom I have not named, William Harvey 
accomplished ? I answer him, Everything. His work 
was not on the anatomical courses of the blood alone ; 
it was not on the circulation alone ; it was on the 
motion of the heart and blood ; and in the application 
of that expression lies the greatness of his discovery. 
Motion means life, and Harvey saw the living motion. 
His predecessors had been anatomists. He was not 
their inferior on that head, and he was what they were 
not, a physiologist as well as an anatomist. He first 
saw the motions of the different parts of the heart and 
defined them. He first defined the arterial pulsations, 
making them a part of ventricular action. He com- 
pleted the argument as to the uses of the valves 
of the circulatory apparatus everywhere, and showed 
from them, as if to his mind they were so many 
directing side-posts, the one course, and none other, 
the blood must take in the circulatory channels. He 
replaced the ideal of a wave- like motion of the blood 
by the demonstration of a regular current, pulsating 
in the arteries, steady in the veins. He showed that 
compression of a vein empties it on the heart side of 
the compressed part, and fills it below, without return 
of the blood into the arteries ; and he proved that 
compression of an artery empties its corresponding 
veins throughout their whole course, so that the cur- 
rent of blood is always in one direction. 



WILLIAM HARVEY. 73 

Under the influence of his genius, I repeat, the 
hitherto death-like circulation became a flowing river 
of life, so plainly depicted that no hand now could 
take up pen and describe it better or more completely 
than his hand described it. 

And this is the soul of genius, the perfection of 
originality : to start from the knowledge of many 
smaller men, or of men less fortunate ; to master 
their details ; to bring their details into form out of 
void ; to go to Nature for corroboration or contradic- 
tion of details ; and, from the whole study, to divinely 
recreate the created, and thereby show to everyone, 
gen.tle and simple, what he has never seen before, but 
is obliged to see clearly when the light of truth illu- 
mines the way. 

* 

FROM FAME TO DEATH. 

For twenty-seven years after Harvey had attained 
his wide and certain fame, he lived in this world, 
undergoing many vicissitudes. He visited the Conti- 
nent in 1630 with the Duke of Lennox, returning 
to England in 1631-2. In 1636 he revisited the 
Continent, this time as one of the embassy of the 
Earl of Arundel. Reaching England once more 
about Christmas 1636, after an absence of nine 
months, Harvey resumed his practice, but was much 
occupied in attendance on the king, whose physician 
he was. He attended the ill-fated Charles on his 



74 WILLIAM HARVEY. 

expeditions to Scotland before the outbreak of the 
revolution, was with him at the outbreak, and while, 
on the memorable 23rd of October, the blundering 
Rupert was sacrificing the success of the battle of 
Edgehill, near to Kineton in Warwickshire, Harvey 
was resting under a fence in charge of the young 
princes, the sons of the king. With the king he went 
to Oxford, and remained there some years, replacing, 
by his Majesty's order, Nathaniel Brent, as Warden of 
Merton College, and losing, meanwhile, by the plun- 
dering of his town house, his goods and chattels, and, 
worse than all, many of his anatomical papers a loss 
never made up, and never forgotten. 

In 1646, when Oxford gave way to the Parliament, 
Harvey returned to the metropolis, houseless and 
widowed by this time. Two of his merchant brothers 
therefore received him at their homes alternately. 
Sometimes he resided in the city, but his favourite 
haunt seems to have been at the house of his brother 
at Combe, where he studied in the ' caves ' some 
newer secrets of Nature, which secrets, on the solici- 
tation of his friend Dr. Ent, he gave forth in his great 
work on generation. At the age of seventy-one, he 
once more visited Italy, and with that journey ended 
his peregrinations out of England. The last years of 
Harvey were still devoted to study, to his lectures at 
the Royal College of Physicians, and to the develop- 



WILLIAM HARVEY. 75 

ment of that college, to which he added a museum, 
opened by himself on February 2nd, 1653-4, a library, 
and all his natural curiosities, for, alas ! the great fire 
of London to consume. 

It was not until 1656, the seventy-eighth year of 
his age, that William Harvey relinquished his pro- 
fessor's gown. He was breaking up by this time, a 
martyr to gout, and wearied with the many cares of a 
chequered, anxious, and laborious life. On June 3rd, 
1657, he was seized with palsy of the tongue, and 
knew his end was near. His nephews being sent for, 
he gave to one his watch, to another his signet ring. 
He signed to Sambroke, his apothecary, to let him 
blood in the tongue, but to no avail, and ' with easy 
passport/ as the evening drew nigh, his evening 
closed. The sun and William Harvey went down 
together from the sight of men ; but both immortal. 

A few miles from the quaint little market town of 
Saffron Walden, in Essex, lies a small village called 
Hempstead. Eliab Harvey had built a family vault 
there, and thither, followed for many miles from the 
city by the fellows of the Royal College, the body of 
the great anatomist was borne to be laid at rest. 
In the open vault he was placed ' lapt in lead ' 
not buried, in the ordinary sense of the term ; and 
there, ' lapt in lead,' what remains of his body still 
lies. 



76 WILLIAM HARVEY. 

THE REMAINS OF HARVEY. 

Thrice in the past thirty years, I have visited the 
vault at Hempstead, and viewed the leaden recep- 
tacle that holds, like an Egyptian case, the remains of 
Harvey. In 1847 the case was lying with others, 
there are over forty of them, near one of the open 
gratings of the vault. There were many loose stones 
upon it, and a large crack in the lead. In 1859 
Drs. Quain and Stewart, who went to the vault by 
request of the Fellows of the Royal College of Phy- 
sicians, found the remains in even a worse state, for 
the leaden case was then almost full of dirty water. In 
1868 I found the case in its previous position, but clean 
and dry. The vault, which had been repaired, was 
also now clean and dry. In the case there was still 
an opening, but the water had either been removed or 
had escaped by evaporation. I was able to throw a 
reflected light into this opening, but I could see no 
remains, and I think that there is little left of what 
was once the bodily form of our greatest English 
anatomist. 

On the i gth of July of this present year 1878, I 
have once more visited the vault where the remains 
lie still encased in lead, and have made more detailed 
observations of the Harvey chapel in the church at 
Hempstead, and of a bust of Harvey which is also 



WILLIAM HARVEY. 



77 



erected there. It occurred to me, in 1868, when 
looking at this bust, that the face of it had been 
copied from a cast taken from the face of the anato- 
mist himself after death ; but as I was not sufficiently 
conversant with the sculptor's art to come to a 
decision on the point, I this time invited my friend 
Thomas Woolner, R.A., than whom none could know 
more on such a subject, to accompany me. The 
result of Mr. Woolner's careful examination of the 
bust is to confirm the view stated above, that it is a 
direct copy from the cast of the face of Harvey in 
death. 

The leaden shell in which the remains are enclosed 
is much decayed now. The lead of the upper surface 
is so collapsed that its inner face almost touches the 
inner face of the bottom of the shell. The opening 
is still there, and the space within, as far as can be 
ascertained, contains a large quantity of thick dirty 
water or mud. This further observation leads me to 
fear still more that there can be little left of the body 
that was entombed in the shell. 

It would be well if what there may be left were 
safely deposited in the Mausoleum of the Illustrious, 
the Abbey of Westminster. John Hunter and David 
Livingstone would be nobly companioned by William 
Harvey, 



III. 

A HOMILY, CLERICO-MED1CAL. 



LINEACRE, founder of the first 

scientific society in England the Royal Col- 
lege of Physicians Physician, Rector of Wigan, and 
Precentor of the Cathedral of York, being on the point 
of death, sent for his advisers, and bequeathed the 
means to establish in each of the Universities of Oxford 
and Cambridge a professorship for the following ob- 
jects : i. The glory of God ; 2. The true art of 
medicine ; 3. The help of the fallen ; 4. The increase 
of this realm. His death, which occurred a few days 
later, separated for the future, in this country, the two 
vocations of divinity and medicine, as vocations con 
nected with the living labours of one and the same 
man. Yet the will of Lineacre shows that to the last 
he could see the natural connection that exists between 
the vocations. To his mind, after the glory of God 
comes next in order the true art of medicine, and 
from both the help of the fallen and the increase of 
the realm. 



A HOMILY, CLERICO-MEDICAL. 79 

It has often been a subject of regret that the ab- 
solute division of the two professions was ever form- 
ally made, and I confess I have never been able to 
detect, though I have exercised some diligence in the 
inquiry, why it was so suddenly and completely ef- 
fected as we find it to have been after the decease of 
Lineacre. Whether anything has been gained by the 
separation, I will not venture to say. Neither dare I 
venture to suggest that by the severance of the union 
the clerical profession has lost anything whatever. 
But it is certainly becoming, and truthful as it is 
becoming, for me as a medical scholar to say, that 
medicine would more than once have gained largely 
had there been no such severance. Several notable 
instances of men connected with the Church of 
England, as ministers of that Church, illustrate the 
correctness of this view. The writings and works of 
Bishop Watson indicate what a great mind would 
have been introduced into scientific medicine, had he 
been at liberty to cultivate the art of healing the body. 
The physiological essays of the Rev. William Jones, 
once Rector of Paston, in Northamptonshire, breathe 
the purest scientific spirit, and show how keenly he 
would have cultivated the medical side of learning, if 
he had pursued that bent of his inclination. The 
original observations of the Rev. Stephen Hales, once 
Vicar of Teddington, were most remarkable in their 



8o A HOMILY, CLERICO-MEDICAL. 

bearings on the science and art of medicine. By his 
scientific work Hales not only added some of the 
most important facts to physiology, but he ranks as 
the actual originator of the system of ventilating ships, 
houses, and other public buildings. He was the first 
to measure the deterioration of common air by the 
process of respiration, and he led the way to those 
sanitary reforms which have cleansed our gaols of 
plague, and purified our houses from the poisonous 
emanations which once were the defilement of all 
places where men were massed together. To few of 
her regular practitioners and professors does medicine 
owe more than to this modest and industrious son of 
our National Church. 

In our day two similar representative men have 
by their labours honoured both professions. The late 
Rector of Bishopsbourne, for many years my most 
intimate friend and co-worker in science, the Rev. J. 
B. Reade, F.R.S., was one of the really learned in 
physiological medicine. He anticipated me in the 
discovery of ammonia as a product of respiration ; and 
when his laborious life was near its close, he was 
carrying on one of the most singularly interesting 
inquiries, of a microscopical character, on the blood. 
Yet he often told me that these scientific pursuits 
never lessened his love for his own calling. On 
the contrary, his knowledge of the human body and 



A HOMILY, CLERICO-MEDICAL. 81 

of the laws of life strengthened him in the performance 
of his clerical duties, and, by making him more fami- 
liar with man as an organisation, made him more 
competent to deal with man as a reasoning being 
amenable to reason. Still living amongst us, we have 
a fine example of one who blends the two professions 
in himself, in the Rev. Dr. Haughton, of Dublin, a 
physiologist of the first rank, and a man whose mind 
is attuned so perfectly to his whole duty, that whether 
he be accepted as clergyman or physician, he stands 
equally valued and worthy. 

Outside the National Church of England two 
other men engaged in clerical functions stand forth 
prominently as discoverers in medical science. The 
first of these, Nicholas Stenon, the distinguished 
Bishop of Heliopolis in the Church of Rome, is the 
most remarkable. No propagandist was ever more, 
active than Nicholas Stenon ; no anatomist was ever 
more original or profound. Stenon's duct, the duct 
leading from the parotid gland into the mouth, is still 
known by his name. Stenon's dissections of the 
heart, and demonstrations of the figure-of-eight fibres 
of that organ, are still copied. Stenon's discovery 
that the contractile structure of muscle is the fleshy 
and not the membranous part of the muscle, was one of 
the greatest observations that has ever been made in 
animal anatomy. He was, as Haller defined him, 



82 A HOMILY, CLER1CO-MEDICAL. 

'Vir industrius, candidus, innocuus, et magnus in- 
ventor.' The second man to whom I refer was that 
wonderful scientific genius, the Nonconformist preacher 
Joseph Priestly ; a man who, by his discovery of 
oxygen gas and its nature as the supporter of life, 
takes one of the first places of honour amongst the 
medical investigators of the last century. 

That examples such as these are to be found is 
in no way remarkable ; rather, I think, it is wonderful 
that more frequent occasions for mentioning them 
do not occur. Everyone who thinks at all must feel 
that between the two professions there is a bond of 
union so subtle that no line of distinction is to be 
found as a line of natural separation. The division 
has been made arbitrary and distinct by an artificial 
demarcation, which I hope will soften down materially 
in the next few years, to the benefit not only of our- 
selves, but of the world at large. It is a hopeful sign 
of this desirable closer communion that I, a minister 
of medical science, should thus be permitted to speak 
from this place to you, the ministers of religion ; a 
sign so important, I could well have wished that some 
more aged, if not more earnest, representative of the 
art of healing had been asked to undertake so entirely 
original, so delicate, so responsible a task. But you 
have confided in me to speak, and therefore I rest on 
your kindness. 



A HOMILY, CLERICO-MEDICAL. 83 

As I proceed to take up the text that lies before 
me, ' The Inter-relationships of Clerical and Medical 
Functions/ the first inquiry that strikes me is Where 
are the relationships the closest ? Where should we 
be most of one accord ? I mean particularly : Where 
should we be of accord in practical labour ? Setting 
aside everything that may be called doctrinal in 
either profession ; meeting as on one common field 
for the common good, where do our labours coalesce ? 
Where can we join to do work together in the 
same spirit, without interfering with special functions ? 
On what ground do we all still remain both priests and 
physicians ? If we could see this land of union, we 
should see, indeed, a land of promise for the world ! 

Let me say at once, without wishing to offer a 
word which savours of boasting, or which the universal 
voice does not endorse, that in some respects we do 
unite in a manner that is not common to any other 
professions. I refer to the natural readiness with 
which we lend ourselves to fulfil Lineacre's third de- 
sire, to help the fallen. In all works of true charity, 
whether it be in delivering a sermon for the aid of 
the weak and afflicted, or writing a prescription or 
performing an operation for the same, we have a 
common sympathy and a common pride. No thought 
of worldly gain impels us to these sacred duties. No 
jealousy of labour lessens our mutual activities. 



84 A HOMILY, CLERICO-MEDICAL. 

Our relationships are fairly close in the matter of 
education, and the spread of education throughout the 
world. If it be that our medical duties take us further 
from the library and the study than yours do ; if it be 
that the noble task of distributing knowledge from one 
living torch to another has been more distinctly your 
privilege than ours, we physicians have not been slow 
to second you in your efforts. Observers of natural 
things rather than of books, we have produced our 
great natural scholars. Our Keplers, Harveys, Gal- 
vanis, Linnseuses, Hallers, Cuviers, Owens, Youngs, 
Hunters, have constructed the study of natural history. 
To these we have added such great scholars, even in 
books, as Mead, Arbuthnot, Friend, Locke, Akenside, 
Goldsmith, Adams, Willis, Latham, Bartholomew 
Parr, and many more whose names are as familiar to 
you as to us, and who stand almost as well with you 
as do your own Jeremy Taylor, Barrow, Hooker, 
Pearson, or Tillotson. In a word, we have stood 
shoulder to shoulder in those great diffusions of know- 
ledge and interpretations of knowledge, in the absence 
of which the world would have lost some of the best 
and noblest fruits of knowledge. In the progress of 
civilisation the Divines and the Physicians have been 
related throughout their history. 

We are again closely related in what may be 
considered the pure social life of the world. The 



A HOMILY, CLERICO-MEDICAL. 85 

first expressed wants of every community, so soon as 
it is organized, are for the teacher of religion and the 
healer of the sick. In large public institutions many 
offices undergo change, are removed, are allowed to 
die out. But the offices of the chaplain and the 
doctor remain through all untouched. In every 
village and town of the kingdom the special personal 
influence of the clergyman and the doctor is uni- 
versally recognised. The rich man, esquire or noble, 
may exert more territorial influence ; but the hearts 
and minds of the people, their mental and physical 
weaknesses and strengths, their affections and their 
confidences, all lie with the two ministers of mind 
and body who are de facto members of every family, 
great and small, in which their faithful ministrations 
are a part of the duties of their lives. 

I am describing now what has been and is, rather 
than what may be. It is in vain for either of our 
professions to deceive itself on this one point, that with 
the advance of learning throughout the masses our 
direct influence is on the severest trial. To use a 
plain but significant expression, ' we are on our mettle.' 
We are no longer isolated centres of power amongst 
the masses. True, it is still our duty to carry on our 
special ministrations and by them to hold a definite 
position. True, the particular sphere of the clergyman 
is still the church. True, the particular sphere of the 



86 A HOMILY, CLERICO-MEDICAL. 

physician is still the hospital or the sick chamber. 
But both must, in these days, spend almost equal 
time in the open places of the world, and in these 
open places so closely are our duties united they are 
practically as one for the service of the world. 

I agree to the letter with the teaching of an 
admirable lecture delivered last session before this 
Homiletical Society, in which the lecturer defended 
the practice of division of a subject into distinct heads. 
I shall follow, on this occasion, the time-honoured 
custom there so ably defended, and shall endeavour 
to treat : 

First : On the inter-relationships of clerical and 
medical functions in things that relate to physical 
health. 

Secondly: On the inter-relationships of clerical 
and medical functions in things that relate to mental 
health. 

In the combined study of these two subjects, we 
stand on safe and common ground. For it is our com- 
bined function to check physical and mental evils at 
their roots. As our special labours are rendered more 
easy of fulfilment when such primitive and preventive 
measures have been applied, so in learning the art of 
prevention we, clergy and physicians alike, enter as 
learners the same vestibule, and as teachers minister 
in the same open sanctuary of the world of life ; 



A HOMILY, CLERICO-MEDICAL. 87 

mission bearers of the truth. The academic vest- 
ments that distinguish us fall from our shoulders, 
and we stand amongst men as one class, exposing the 
same truths, enforcing the same practices, promising 
the same rewards for virtue, declaring the same 
penalties for vice, checking the same ignorances, pro- 
moting the same advancements, and practically using 
the same arguments. We are building up sound 
minds in sound bodies, and preparing the world for a 
better and more exalted earthly life. 

Our common labours concentrate in the study of 
all deranged conditions of mind and of body, of 
sins and diseases in past and present generations. 
We read together the origins of these deranged con- 
ditions of the past ; we examine in the present the 
influence and the action of such origins, not only as 
they have come from other generations, but as they 
are being re-established in or produced by our own. 

I. Turning to the first head, the physical health 
of man and the studies of that health which affect us 
conjointly, we see at a glance that in everything which 
touches this domain of knowledge we are as one. If 
you ministers of religion speak to a man who is living 
in a state of physical impurity, the temple of whose 
soul is exposed to every danger and irregular disturb- 
ance, your voices, though they were the voices of 
angels, were half destroyed. The senses unfitted for 



88 A HOMILY, CLERICO-MEDICAL. 

the reception of the pure, the beautiful, the holy, 
cannot convey your meaning to those hidden cham- 
bers of the mind and heart it is your wish to penetrate. 
If we physicians prescribe for a man so placed, our 
wisest measures, though they commanded the autho- 
rity of ^Esculapius himself, were so much loss of time 
and effort. Give me the management of the fire, the 
window, and the door of the sick man's room, and all 
my learned colleagues in Pall Mall shall be summoned 
in vain to that sick man's aid. What, then, of treat- 
ment yet more refined, when the external elements 
are polluted, and the immediate elements of vice 
commingle with the material elements of pollution ? 

Let us move, as a beginning, to a contemplation 
of the means that are fittest for securing the birth of 
the healthy. The Church, with exceeding wisdom, 
has legislated for many ages on this subject. She 
has ordained the limits of marriage as between certain 
degrees of consanguinity. The moral aspect of mar- 
riage is no doubt here the primary thought ; but the 
physical lies close behind it, and both correlate. In the 
whole range of our common studies there is no subject 
of profounder interest for us than lies here for our 
contemplation. The physicians taking on this point 
the lead, in matters of physical investigation, a lead 
natural to their studies, have traced the origins of 
disease into sources antecedent, actually, to the birth 



A HOMILY, CLERICO-MED1CAL. 89 

of those who are diseased. I do not speak now of 
diseases which are developed simply in the offspring 
while in the womb of its mother, but of diseases 
which go farther back than this origin, which go 
back three and even four generations, and which, 
once implanted, require another relay of three or four 
healthier generations before they are wiped out. We 
Physicians have traced in this class of disease, in 
diseases originating as described, many very definite 
maladies, scrofula, consumption, cancer, rheumatism, 
gout, insanity, chorea sancti Viti, syphilis, and the 
whole and varied train of alcoholic affections. Each 
new day of observation adds to the list, so that from 
a careful study of all the facts we have been led to 
the conclusion that nearly all the phenomena of 
disease have a certain degree of hereditary bearing. 
There is even a hereditary tendency to contagious 
diseases, like scarlet fever, diphtheria, and typhoid. 

It may appear, on a hasty glance, that a study of 
a question of this nature is of the purest medical 
order; that it touches clerical function at no point. 
As we look more carefully, the facts are seen in a very 
different light, and as we move into a new position to 
look at them, they present a new aspect under the 
different light. We discover, as we observe, that all 
these hereditary tendencies to disease have an origin, 
in the first instance, out of the body ; that in many 



90 A HOMILY, CLERICO-MEDICAL. 

cases they spring out of what, in the language of the 
physician, is called contagion, but what, in the lan- 
guage of the minister of religion, is called vice or sin. 
The diseases implanted by drunkenness, by passion, 
by lust, are they not phenomena in the world over 
which priest and physician are equally concerned in 
respect to the suppression of their origins ? And if 
under the same head of origins, we include the other 
diseases which spring from sheer ignorance of the 
simple laws of nature, from uncleanliness, neglect, 
imperfect sustenance, improper sustenance, impure 
air, irregular labour ; if we say of the origins of 
diseases from these causes, that they too are vices, sins 
either of omission or of commission, then the view 
of the field of our common labours is so extended 
that, as men out together in the wide world, we sink 
into each other as members of professions the func- 
tions of which so closely inter-relate that they become 
one and the same. 

It remains for scholars of your exalted calling to 
investigate more closely than you have yet done the 
transmission of evils which are moral and hereditary. 
Much of the phenomenon of crime, in its various 
phases, which you have to combat, is of the hereditary 
stamp ; but how far the influence extends is a ques- 
tion that can only be answered by determinate and, if 
I may apply the term, scientific research. Through 






A HOMILY, CLERICO-MEDICAL. 91 

the observations of the excellent and earnest clergy- 
men who fill the office of chaplains to our prisons, all 
facts relating to the hereditary transmission of crime 
would be easily attainable, and would be equally valu- 
able to the teacher of religion, the statesman, the 
physician. 

In fine, the inter-relationships of clerical and medi- 
cal functions on this subject are so combined as to be 
inseparable. Whether we are learning new facts, or 
teaching old ones, the work demanded of us is the 
same ; and I am greatly mistaken if it would not be 
found, from a review of our combined labours, extend- 
ing over a few years of observation, that nearly all 
the physical and moral hereditary evils have a com- 
mon root. 

The clerical and medical functions inter-relate 
when they are directed to the suppression of all vices 
which bring in their train physical disease. In none 
do they need more to combine than in the efforts to 
suppress the prevailing intemperance of the masses, 
and to reduce the evils, physical and moral, that 
spring from the use of strong drink. Our professions 
deserve, I think, to stand humiliated, in that we, of 
all men, have not taken the lead towards the refor- 
mation of our country from the terrible spell of 
intemperance. The fact is deeply to be regretted. 
Happily, at last, and not one moment too soon, we 



92 A HOMILY, CLERICO-MEDICAL. 

are awakening in both bodies to a solemn sense of our 
solemn, our momentous duties ; and I am bold to 
declare that if we can agree to understand our inter- 
relationships on this subject, we can do anything. 
Aided by the noble, thrice noble army of laymen who 
have pioneered this movement against a common 
enemy, we can make this England sober in one or two 
generations. But so long as we remain apathetic, the 
noblest outside labourers must either fail, or, winning 
by sheer force of knowledge, wisdom, conscience, and 
courage, must bring us low in their triumphs. Here 
our common duties, though they proceed together in 
principle, are distinct in detail. 

It is the duty of my profession to show, as it 
can show to the most perfect demonstration, that this 
cause of intemperance alcohol is no necessity of 
man \ that it is a product of the laboratory, belonging 
thereto, and is out of place when it is used for any 
other than a purely medical, chemical, or artistic pur- 
pose ; that it is no food ; that it is the most certain 
and insidious destroyer of health, happiness, and 
life. 

And while it is our duty to teach these truths of 
science, it is yours not only to stand by them as 
demonstrations indisputable, but to back them up by 
your ever-potent, ever-present moral influence and 
decision ; to add, as you can better than all the world 



A HOMILY, CLERICO-MEDICAL. 93 

besides, that eloquence of exposition, that persuasion, 
and that practised reverential argument which, to 
those who even assume to despise it, is a resistance 
beneath which they fall. 

And while in this manner, with shades only of 
difference in action, the functions of the two pro- 
fessions co-relate, in yet another direction bearing on 
this same subject they should not merely co-relate 
but be as one. I mean in the example of abnegation. 
We shall be better ministers, better physicians, better 
men, if we practise abnegation from alcohol. But 
this mere selfish result of the practice is as nothing 
compared with the national result that would follow 
upon our example. 

The functions of the clerical and medical bodies 
might conjoin well in another sense, bearing upon the 
necessities of mankind for the sustaining of animal 
power by food. The ministers of the Jewish religion 
are here in advance of ministers of other forms of 
religion, and to some extent even of the professors 
of medicine. Practically the Jewish ministers super- 
vise the food, so as to see that it is free from disease; 
and although their inspectors are often illiterate 
men, they are so well trained as to what to ob- 
serve, that the chance of a Jew obtaining animal food 
that will create disease is all but impossible. It 
would be vain to suppose that ministers, other than 



94 A HOMILY, CLERICO-MEDICAL. 

the Jewish, could conduct or superintend the same 
supervision ; but it is very important that the clergy 
should join with the medical body in all efforts to 
institute some similar supervision, to be carried out 
by municipal or central authority. A number of 
physical diseases would be saved, some of them of 
the most painful and revolting character, if the 
Jewish system, not of killing, nor yet of preparing, 
but of inspecting and selecting foods, were rigidly 
enforced. 

In the matter of temperance in eating and 
economy of food, the members of both our pro- 
fessions might work together most usefully. It is 
the fact that the large majority of the people who are 
well-to-do eat far too much food of all kinds. Some 
eat twice as much as is necessary, and not a few eat 
four times as much as they really require. I am 
quite sure that on the food that is now taken in excess 
by the wealthy, on the food that is wasted in great 
banquets, on the food that is prepared to indulge a 
wanton and proud and mock hospitality, and on the 
food that is actually cast away from the table, three 
English populations might be healthily, wholesomely, 
and comfortably sustained. In correcting this vast 
and unpardonable waste, this fountain of extrava- 
gance, this shameful example of the risen to the 
rising generation, the precept and example of the 






A HOMILY, CLERICO-MEDICAL. 95 

clergyman and the doctor would be of incalculable 
benefit to all classes of modern society. 

The reference I have made to the Jews and to 
their careful supervision of food, suggests to my mind 
another Jewish custom which our professions might 
well combine to introduce and enforce. I refer to the 
perfect cleansing of dwelling-houses, and of everything 
within them, which the Jewish community systema- 
tically carries out once in the year. The strange 
immunity of the Jews from the ravages of pesti- 
lential diseases, even under circumstances of a social 
kind most favourable to them, can, I think, be fully 
accounted for on this ground and on no other, that 
by the yearly complete cleansing of the house, the 
accumulation of the organic substances which act as 
the poisons of the spreading diseases, is prevented. 
Once in twelve months certainly the Jewish house is 
absolutely cleansed of the perilous stuff that plagues 
are made of. I see no reason why, by the united 
efforts of the clergyman and the doctor, this same 
custom, so orderly, so cleanly, might not be extended 
to the whole of our population. I once asked a learned 
Jewish physician, who was enthusiastically describing 
the effects of this general purification, how it was 
carried out so effectively, and his answer was very 
striking. 'We Jewish physicians/ he said, ' approve 
it, endorse it, enforce it ; but it is really carried out 



96 A HOMILY, CLERICO-MEDICAL. 

because it is a part of the discipline of the synagogue.' 
It struck me that a more forcible example of the inter- 
relationships of clerical and medical functions could 
not be adduced, nor a more cogent example of the 
value of the relationship. 

II. The inter-relationships of clerical and medical 
functions are well seen in the study of the labours to 
which I have already adverted. They become, how- 
ever, more intimately connected when we see the con- 
siderations that are involved in the second division of 
my lecture ; when we touch on those refined physio- 
logical and psychological problems which relate to 
the bonds of union between organized matter and 
organic motion, between the substance of man and 
the acts he performs, the sensations he experiences, 
and the thoughts he translates into words. In these 
studies there does not even appear a tinge of sepa- 
ration between the labours of the two professions ; 
the field of observation is equally interesting and 
equally common to both, and the world applies to both, 
with equal desire, for education, advice, and aid on 
the subjects which are included in the human pheno- 
mena that are here opened to view. 

It is natural, it is a necessity springing from our 
work, that we physicians, who day by day throughout 
our lives are studying and treating the natural organi- 
zation of man in its living, in its functional, in its 



A HOMILY, CLERICO-MEDICAL. 97 

diseased, and in its dead conditions, should become 
specially impressed with the material side of life ; 
and I venture to say there is not a clergyman living 
who would not be similarly influenced and impressed 
if, by accident of education, he had been brought to 
our work. It is natural, on the other side, for you, 
who are daily and hourly dealing with spiritual teach- 
ings, to lift your minds above what seems to be the 
grossness of the material universe, and to look chiefly 
at the heights and depths of the unspeakable wisdom 
and power that framed the whole. It is natural, it 
is almost a necessity, that you from your points of 
view should become specially impressed by the sublime 
nature of the message which you attempt to receive 
and to unfold. I venture to say there is not a physician 
living who would not be similarly influenced and 
impressed if, by accident of education, he had been 
brought to your work. Judging for myself, by 
myself, I am sure that under such circumstances I 
should have been lost in it, and should, I doubt not, 
as a reward for my earnestness, have been considered 
one of the rr.ost bigoted priests that ever approached 
the altar. Stenon himself was not a more energetic 
propagandist than I, but for mere accident, might 
have been. To sober and evenly balanced minds 
these reflections on difference of thought only indi- 
cate, however, that the border-land between them is 



98 A HOMILY, CLERICO-MEDICAL. 

indefinite, and that the field really belongs to both. 
If there were no human bodies to be studied, there 
would be no spiritual ministrations, none to minister, 
none to be ministered to. And so I think the wise 
clergyman will ever be ready to move with the phy- 
sician in the study of the organization through which, 
under the direction of the Divine will and wisdom, the 
manifestations of life and action are developed and 
sustained. Supposing we agree on these points, then, 
there is common work for our united functions of a 
kind so practical that it may pass for commonplace 
amongst the masses, and be accepted by them as 
nothing more than common-sense duty. The temp- 
tation is strong to touch on some refined topics of 
discussion here, but I will keep to the practical. 

Our functions combine in the study of mental 
health, and in the treatment of the morbid passions 
of mankind. The Church, from its very foundation, 
has been teaching the subjection of the passions. The 
Church, acting on the words of one of its apostolic 
founders, has from its foundation been teaching the 
dualistic nature of man, and that the instinctive animal 
part of man is ever at war with the finer and reasoning 
consciousness, which endows him with something which 
separates him altogether from the lower creation of 
living things. This which the Church has taught so 
long by her, shall I say dogmatic ? voice, is now a 



A HOMILY, CLERICO-MED1CAL. 99 

demonstration of modern medical science, so clear 
that every student may learn it in his first academic 
session. We physicians not only accept the fact, but 
we are able to understand the physiological, the 
anatomical, and, I may add, the pathological bearings 
of it. We have learned that the centres of the emo- 
tional faculties, the centres that are excited or 
paralysed in the periods of rage, fear, undue sense 
of desire, ecstacy, hate, love, grief, are not the centres 
of the reasoning faculties, but are a distinct organic 
chain of nervous matter common to all animals that 
possess a semblance of nervous system. We know 
that these emotional centres, though intercommunicat- 
ing with, and though to a large extent controllable by, 
the higher centres, are yet truly a definite system of 
themselves, impulsive, involuntary, and, if uncontrolled 
by the exercise of the reasoning centres, wild and 
dangerous. As animal centres, they are necessary and 
essential for the animal wants, for the building up of 
the organism, for the reproduction of the organism 
in the form of offspring, for the protection of offspring, 
for the protection and vindication of self, and yet 
dangerous if so excited as to exert supreme sway and 
to make the man the equal companion of the lower 
class of animal being. 

So far, then, in the medical advance of learning, 
we have come up with the grand teaching of the 



ioo A HOMILY, CLERICO-MEDICAL. 

Church on the subjection of the passions. But in 
our way we have made another advance. We have 
discovered that the indulgence of the passions, and 
the excitements from the passions, lead to direct 
physical disease and death : that the moral death, 
in truth, which the Church proclaims, is not more 
certain than the physical death which the physician 
recognises and expounds. 

I could give you illustration upon illustration of 
this order of facts. Let one suffice. 

There is a peculiar form of disease of the circula- 
tion, a nervous derangement of the heart, in the 
course of which the beating, forcing heart loses some- 
thing of its natural stroke and tension. The heart 
beats and hesitates ; stops for a moment in its motion, 
and then, with confused impetus, goes on again. When 
you listen to such a heart, it is as if you were listening 
to a clock the ticking of which was several times in a 
minute interrupted, and which then went on again 
with a commencing faint and uncertain tick. This 
in many persons becomes a confirmed disease, and, 
what is more, it becomes a true hereditary disease. In 
its worse forms it renders some who suffer from it of 
uncertain mind and power. Their brain is not regu- 
larly and systematically filled with blood ; their ves- 
sels are not at all times of equal tension. In the worst 
instances, owing to the repeated indecision of action, 
these sufferers are disposed to sudden impulses or to 



A HOMILY, CLERICO-MEDICAL. 101 

melancholy, and in extremest instances even to suicide. 
We say of these people that they are broken-hearted. 
Why ? The answer is of singular interest. 

From a long and experimental study of this form 
of disease, I have ascertained that as a permanent 
disease it is dependent entirely on paralysis or failure 
of those centres, those instinctive centres of nervous 
power, which govern the involuntary organs of animal 
life, including amongst the others, and most impor- 
tantly of all, the pulsating heart. And yet another 
truth have I learned on this subject, namely, that 
whenever this diseased condition appears in the young 
or middle-aged as a confirmed condition of disease, and 
when it has not come down as an hereditary taint, it 
is induced solely by one cause, the exercise and 
indulgence of the passions, or the excitement of 
emotion due to some accidental provocation. Vio- 
lent anger, extreme ambition, fierce contest, sudden 
fear, intense hate, too ardent love, overwhelming 
grief, these are the causes which lead to the inter- 
mittent circulation that promotes so many subsequent 
evils, and impairs, alike, the mental and physical use- 
fulness of those who suffer from it. In the unusually 
large experience I have had of this condition, I have 
not met with an instance in which it was traceable 
to any other cause than the influence of the passions, 
except where it was of hereditary development. 

To be able to connect, in this manner, physical 



102 A HOMILY, CLERICO-MEDICAL. 

with moral disease as results of the same controllable 
human cause, is of singular value to all scholars. To 
both our professions the knowledge of the connection 
is a distinct and, when duly appreciated, necessary 
part of practical knowledge. It cannot, I think, fail 
to be useful to the minister of religion to have it in 
his power to add to his teachings to the over-passion- 
ate man, or woman, or child, the certain truth that 
the over-indulgence of the passions leads as surely to 
physical destruction of life as to moral degradation ; 
that under the continued excitement mental and 
physical suffering will combine, and that the course 
of the physical suffering, traceable by the simplest 
processes of observation, is as regular in its develop- 
ment as any of the set courses of natural law. 

Again, to the teacher and adviser in both frater- 
nities, the knowledge of the existence of such physical 
incapacity, and the nature of it, is most useful for 
guiding the teacher in the management of those who 
are affected. The indecision, the impulse, the errors 
of judgment, the melancholy, which characterize those 
who suffer from the loss of central nervous energy, 
are signs too often misinterpreted by the uninformed, 
and treated as if they were crimes or offences de- 
manding punishment, rather than by that gentle 
soothing kindness and encouragement which come as 
the only healing balms which the minister of mind or 



A HOMILY, CLERICO-MEDICAL. 103 

body can supply. In all these examples of treatment 
the inter- relationships of clerical and medical functions 
are united when they are truly comprehended ; and 
the effect of the unity of action, if it do not cure, 
must needs be a double element of relief, a double 
infusion of hope and of happiness. 

The study of the passions and their influence 
suggests another subject which belongs to our respec- 
tive vocations, and which in some respects more 
closely affects yours than mine. I allude to the 
educational methods at present in fashion for forcing 
knowledge, or assumed knowledge, into the minds of 
the young by competitive strife for the first place. 
This method is indeed, after all, but a method for 
calling into violent action the passions of the young, 
and for making the yet puerile reason their abject 
slave. The effect is the same as that above described 
in regard to physical health. The motion of the 
heart of the competing scholar is rendered irregular, 
intermittent, enfeebled ; the brain unsteady for work ; 
the mind dissatisfied ; while the onward expanding 
growth of the mental faculties is crippled and pros- 
trated. Scarcely a week of my professional life passes 
in which I fail to receive from one or other of the great 
seats of learning or examining boards a martyr of this 
type. 

The offence of man against the Divine ordination 



io 4 A HOMILY, CLERICO-MEDICAL. 

which regulates human progress is, I assure you, in 
this matter very solemn. It is the introduction of a 
system for the perfect development of intellectual 
sterility. By it the lustre of genius loses its brightness, 
while the world also is robbed of that industrious 
perseverance which next to genius in its brilliancy, 
and surpassing genius in its steady strength, has made 
our nation so great and powerful. 

In the correction of this supreme error, in the 
chastisement of it by exposing and denouncing it, our 
two professions have a common task. The fruits of 
the errors will multiply as they grow, and unless they 
be uprooted it will soon be past our power to con- 
trol or remove them. To the present physical evils, 
already sufficiently gross, aberration of mind and 
suicidal mania will be superadded, and the tendencies 
so implanted will be transmitted to succeeding gene- 
rations in hereditary line. In the crusade against 
such aberrations the functions of the clergyman and 
physician fit together in unmistakable communion. 

The inter-relationships of clerical and medical 
functions are found, once more, in the efforts that 
are required to curb another form of passion in which 
the element of fear is the leading influence, and which 
may rightly be called * the passion for the super- 
natural.' The wisest Fathers of the Churches have 
at all times tried to hold this passion in steady check, 



A HOMILY, CLERICO-MEDICAL. 105 

and the Churches that have retained the most per- 
manent hold have continued resolute in this course. 
The passion I now refer to is a form of hallucination 
having no moral bottom to it, no desire of reading 
the sublime works of the Supreme Ruler of the uni- 
verse, but is a mere rude and vulgar wish to lift 
the curtain that veils futurity, and to hold furtive and 
foolish converse with the mysterious dead. It is a 
passion daring as it is wild. You know what effects 
these incanted visions have on weak and unreasoning 
emotional minds. We also know the effects. We 
see those minds passing into that fixed aberration to 
which we give the name of insanity ! Living death ! 

To curb this passion for the supernatural, a 
passion that has no support in the teachings of the 
Church, and no basis in the teachings of science, is 
surely one of the most prominent duties to which 
the combined energies of the clerical and medical 
bodies can be devoted. From what I can learn, the 
large majority of both professions are of one mind 
on this matter. Neither has been led away. Both 
probably in their own individual circles have striven, 
and successfully striven, to correct the dangers they 
have seen ahead. But that we should understand 
each other on these points, exchange understandings 
and combine in action, is the best safeguard for the 
uneducated, and the best proof we can give that we 



106 A HOMILY, CLERICO-MEDICAL. 

are alive to duties which, though they may appear out 
of the order of professional routine, are in truth 
distinctly a part of our legitimate work as ministers t 
in the purest sense of that 'expressive term. 

Connected with this same branch of our common 
pursuits there is opened a survey of that form of 
aberration of mental or bodily function, or some- 
times of both, to which we physicians have recently 
given the name of * disease from moral contagion/ 
epidemic moral derangement. The derangements in- 
cluded by us under this title are in some instances 
purely motional ; that is to say, they consist of some 
simple, though often extreme, perversion of the mus- 
cular movements of the body. In other instances 
they are ideational and emotional. In a third class 
motional aberration is combined with emotional and 
ideational irregularities. Thus we have, under this 
division of deranged action, phenomena ranging from 
ordinary St. Vitus' dance, paralysis, and hysteria, to 
tarantism, dancing mania, and imitative suicidal 
mania. These forms of diseased action have singular 
alliances with the purer forms of physical disease. I 
have no doubt they are hereditary ; they are certainly 
contagious ; and they appear in the epidemic form. 
They present, like the true epidemics, points of 
development from one centre, periods of maximum 
intensity and decadence ; and in some examples 






A HOMILY, CLERICO-MEDICAL. 107 

they actually alternate with a physical epidemic, 
dying away before it or superseding it. Those 
persons, moreover, who are most readily influenced 
by one epidemic condition are also by the other, so 
that in the midst of a true prevailing physical out- 
break of disease there are many examples of mere 
imitation, so forcible in imitation, that the acutest 
physician finds all his powers taxed to separate the 
imitative from the real. 

In the study of these phenomena we stand once 
more on common ground, students of the same 
school. The phenomena intrude into both our 
domains, and in the ignorance that still prevails 
regarding them, I can conceive of nothing that would 
tend more to enlightenment than the conjoint investi- 
gation of the phenomena by some of the members 
of our learned fraternities. 

In the psychological field of work in which we 
are each engaged, the clerical and medical functions 
co-relate in the study of the phenomena of temporary 
mental depression and unhappiness of mind. You 
are often appealed to on this head, and are embar- 
rassed by the dark picture which men and women of 
the purest character will give you of their condition. 
We physicians have, constantly, similar experiences. 
I have known both clergymen and doctors who have 
been specially susceptible on this account, though 



io8 A HOMILY, CLERICO-MEDICAL. 

doctors who lead an active out-of-door life are more 
rarely affected in this way. In these phenomena the 
physician, as a rule, reads the existence of a physical 
cause, and late research has been active in explaining 
the cause. It is all but capable of demonstration that, 
under unfavourable conditions of the bodily health, we 
produce within ourselves physical compounds which, 
by their action upon it, so becloud and derange the 
nervous matter that both the reasoning centres and 
the emotional centres are disturbed and depressed. 

I have myself been able to trace to some extent 
the nature of the physical agents which are so pro- 
duced in the body, and are the cause of some of these 
phenomena. The agents are, I believe, organic com- 
pounds containing sulphur ; substances which, in per- 
fectly healthy conditions, are thrown out of the system 
by the bile. I have observed the singular fact that 
an allied organic sulphur compound called 'mer- 
captan,' a volatile sulphur alcohol, induces, when 
it is inhaled, a temporary melancholia so determinate 
and so closely allied to the phenomena I have 
described above, as really to present no point of 
difference. The fact, indeed, is clear, that melan- 
cholic brooding may have a physical as well as a 
moral cause, and that even in this refined branch 
of investigation the studies of the divine and the 
physician have a common bond of union. 



A HOMILY, CLERTCO-MEDICAL. 109 

And now, my reverend friends, the passing hour 
gone by, the task you have invited me to perform is 
well-nigh done. I have but one thought more to leave 
with you to-day. How shall we members of the two 
professions more closely unite in heart, in mind, in 
duty ? The question is of the first order. Our union 
is sanctioned by the holiest of holy examples, and 
some of your worthiest dignitaries have hoped that 
once again it may be perfected. It was the life- 
dream of the late Bishop of Exeter to commence this 
work by the institution of a medical diaconate ; and 
in the bright days of the future the union will, I 
believe, occur in natural order of time and circum- 
stance of learning. If the union be impossible now, 
it may be prepared for, and I see no better mode of 
preparation than by the establishment, in our great 
seats of learning, of a professional course of study in 
which students of both ministries, for medicine is a 
ministry, shall meet on the same ground, study 
allied subjects, and prepare for either ministry. To 
the forwarding of such a noble enterprise, the labours 
of this learned Homiletical Society might well be 
directed. Completed to the success indicated, the 
effort would lend a new and grand significance to 
Lineacre's dying bequests for : * The glory of God, 
the true art of medicine, the help of the fallen, and 
the increase of this realm.' 



IV. 
LEARNING AND HEALTH. 

T N this day the cultivation of the mental facul- 
* ties is made to hold the first place in education. 
There be some who still maintain the superiority 
of physical over mental culture, and there be many 
who insist on the necessity of a high degree of 
physical culture of a certain extreme and artificial 
kind. But, as a rule, the favour once too exclu- 
sively tendered to a purely physical training is on 
the decline. The admiration which once was be- 
stowed on men of great strength has almost ceased 
in civilised circles. Physical strength may, if it show 
itself in some singular and abnormal manner, create 
for a time an excitement and noise, but the excite- 
ment ends in the silence that follows clamour. Men 
who perform great feats of strength are no longer 
heroes to be courted and immortalised. Hercules 
himself would be a nine days' wonder in these days. 
The evidence now is fairly clear, moreover, that men 



LEARNING AND HEALTH. in 

who even combine heroism with physical power are 
not the demigods they were. In war the man, in 
these days, who displays the deepest skill and cunning 
in the management of troops is the great general. It 
is not necessary that he should lead a column or 
expose himself to danger for a moment. His power 
lies in his knowledge, and his knowledge is his 
power. 

To attain knowledge is one of the most desired 
objects, and so much of admiration of man for man as 
yet remains, it is not really very much, is expended 
on those who show the greatest mental gifts or pos- 
sessions. The admiration, estimated at its true value, 
feeds vanity rather than veneration. Men who wish 
to be honestly admired see no mode of having what 
they long for except by the acquisition of knowledge 
and the toilsome display of it. They are frequently 
disappointed ; more frequently, I fancy, disappointed 
than satisfied, when they even attain all they aspire 
to as scholars. They feel themselves, perhaps justly 
know themselves, to be great scholars; and yet, 
how little are they recognised above the common 
people who are well-to-do and are no scholars at 
all ! But what other course is open to laudable am- 
bition ? 

There is in this way induced, therefore, a strain 
after knowledge as a means of getting that remaining 



112 LEARNING AND HEALTH. 

part, that skeleton of distinction which so soon will be 
put up as a curiosity of the past. 

The acquisition of much knowledge has, however, 
another meaning and object beyond mere ambition. 
In this so-called practical day it is imagined that 
knowledge must be extended without limitation 
amongst the young, in order that it may be limited 
without extension amongst those who have passed 
their youth, and have become engaged in the practical 
affairs of life. School days and student days must 
be given up to the attainment of mastery over 
subjects included in the whole domain of the human 
understanding. The days of active life, in which 
men are made or marred, must be devoted to the 
perfect mastery, or supposed perfect mastery, of one 
particular subject. Branches of great divisions, and 
in time branches of divisions of great divisions, and 
in time again branches of little divisions derived from 
the secondary divisions, must be made the subjects of 
special study by special men. 

It is very singular to observe in common conver- 
sation the expression of these two lines of mental 
activity. A fond parent, speaking in terms of admi- 
ration of his son at school, unfolds with pride the 
school report. His boy has been working with a 
zeal that cannot be too much applauded. In that 
monthly report sheet the lad has the highest number 



LEARNING AND HEALTH. 113 

of marks in Greek and the same in Latin. He fails 
only one mark from the highest in Latin exercise, he 
is equally near to the top in French, and in German 
he is but one lower down. In what is called ' English ' 
he is third. In Grecian history he is second, in Roman 
history first, in English history fourth. In geography he 
is first, in chemistry fifth, in natural philosophy second, 
in mathematics third, in algebra third, in arithmetic 
first, in mental arithmetic second, and in writing fifth. 
Poor boy ! what a month of close work has been spent 
on that long list. Four hours of school in the morning, 
and three in the afternoon have thus been spent, with 
lessons after school, directed by an intelligent and 
active tutor devoted to the progress of his pupil, a 
very determined though an exceedingly kind man, 
for three hours and sometimes four hours more. 

The father is delighted with the progress of the 
son. Suppose, however, you take the father on these 
very subjects, and see his position in respect to them. 
In nine cases out of ten you find that for him such 
learnings are vanities. He tells you he has no time 
for the gaining of any information on any other subject 
save the one which is the matter of his life. You 
may hear him say of men placed as he is, that they 
must keep to their single calling. ' Division of labour 
is the soul of success. In these times, to master one 
subject is to do all that is required. An accomplished 



114 LEARNING AND HEALTH. 

man ! Where is there such a man, and of what use 
is he if he do exist, which is improbable ? An accom- 
plished woman ! Yes, an accomplished woman is 
now and then met with ; but she, too, is rare, and not 
of much use either ; but women have more time, and 
may be excused if they let their minds run after 
many things in learning.' 

This picture may perhaps be thought to have a 
mercantile or business character of too exclusive a 
kind. I do not think so. In science the same kind 
of argument is not wanting in respect to the young 
and to the middle-aged men. The student of science 
must, in the period of his studentship, go through the 
whole range of scientific learning. He must struggle 
for his degrees and get them. Once through the 
ordeal necessary for so much successful winning, he 
must settle down into minuteness; he must find 
some little point in the great world he has tried to 
traverse, fix on that, and seek to live on it in 
competency and reputation. He must touch no one 
else in his course, and let no one touch him. His 
magic circle, his ground of specialistic thought, is to 
be considered sacred. The same fashion, for I cannot 
call it a principle, nay, I cannot, without abusing the 
word, call it a method, is maintained in the pro- 
fessions, and in two of them, the medical and the 
legal, In the most marked degree. A modern medical 



LEARNING AND HEALTH. 115 

student, through the ordinary term of his studies, 
from the day he enters school until the day he gets 
his diploma, may work like a galley-slave at the 
whole world of natural science ; and then, having 
seized his envied prize, may settle in life to the 
exclusive study and practice of disease of some 
section of the animal body. To be successful, he 
cannot draw the line too sharply round his particular 
pasture. Into that no man must enter unless he 
have a pasture somewhat similar, and such an one is 
not over welcome. In deference to other men of 
other pastures, our man of men must not go out of 
his own. If he knows another department ever so 
well, he must not profess to know it, it is out of 
his line. 

In legal pursuits the same kind of exclusiveness 
obtains, and I think in some instances in a more 
exclusive manner than in medicine. 

It is fortunate for the Church that, with all her 
backslidings and troubles, she has not yet tumbled 
down to so low a position as her sisters have. It is 
of happy omen for the clergy that they must keep up 
their learning as general scholars. It is more than 
happy that in their case division of labour is not 
recognised as profitable ; for if they were to begin to 
specialise, if one clergyman were to take one sin for 
special study, and keep to it all his life, and another 



Ii6 LEARNING AND HEALTIL 

a different sin ; if one took up the cure of swearing, 
for instance, and another of theft, and another of 
lying, the confusion of the modern learned world 
would be complete indeed. 

This introduction to present modes of learning 
and application of learning would well befit an essay 
on the subject of learning as a practical development 
of civilisation not altogether in accord, as it is now 
carried on, with the welfare of our race. I trust soon 
some scholar, whose heart is in education as mine is 
in health, will be bold enough to declare the unity 
of knowledge, the connection of it with wisdom, and 
the utter vacuity .that must soon be witnessed if the 
current fashion be allowed to follow its fragmentary, 
self-repulsive, and self-destructive course. 

To me it falls to oppose the system of modern 
education as a system destructive of vital activity, 
and thereby of mental growth. It is my business to 
declare that at this time health and education are not 
going hand in hand ; that the whole head is sick, and 
the whole heart is faint. 

I cannot sit day by day to see failure of young 
brain, and of brain approaching its maturity, and of 
brain that is matured, and tamely accept the pheno- 
menon as necessary and therefore to be endured. 
To see the errors that prevail and not to speak of 
them were to be silent on errors which would lead a 



LEARNING AND HEALTH. 117 

nation into trained feebleness, which would lead to 
new generations springing out of that feebleness, and 
to the propagation of a community that would no 
more be illuminated by those greatnesses of the past 
who, in less learned but freer times, gave forth the 
noblest of noble poetry, the most wonderful of 
wonderful art, and a science, philosophy, and litera- 
ture that have been hardly mortal. Such a poetry as 
Shakespeare has poured forth ; such an art as Gains- 
borough, and Reynolds, and Turner, and Herschel, 
and Siddons, and Kemble, and Kean have presented ; 
such a science as Newton, and Priestley, and Davy, 
and Young, and Faraday have immortalised ; such a 
philosophy as Bacon and Locke have contributed ; and 
such a literature as Johnson, and Scott, and Dickens 
have, in the freedom of ^ their intellectual growths, be- 
queathed for ever. To me, observing as a physician, 
the appearance and development of these men, under 
the circumstances in which they appeared, is the 
most natural of events, the mere course of Nature 
untrammeled, regular, and divinely permitted ; not 
forced, but permitted, Nature being left to herself. 
To me, observing as a physician, the appearance of 
such men in similar greatness of form is at this time 
an all but impossible phenomenon. The men truly 
may appear, for Nature is always reproducing them, 
and the divine permission for their development is 



ii8 LEARNING AND HEALTH. 

equally good now as of yore ; but the development 
is checked by human interference, and thereby hangs 
the reason of the impossible. Nature produces acorns 
for future oaks, and is as free as of yore that oaks 
should make forests ; but if the young oaks be forced 
in their growth, and when they are approaching to 
maturity be barbarously compressed, head and trunk, 
into narrow unyielding tubes, there will be no forests, 
nor so much as spare representatives of the forest, 
amidst the brushwood of commonplace meadow or 
bare ploughed field of mental life. 

If it be true that education does not go hand in 
hand with health, it is vain to expect that education 
shall bring forth the first-fruits of knowledge, and, 
what is more important, of wisdom. My argument 
is, that the present modes of education for the 
younger population, and for the older, are not com- 
patible with healthy life ; and that education, there- 
fore, is not producing the mental product that is 
required for the steady and powerful progress of the 
nation. 

There are many faults in the processes of education 
of the young which tell upon health in a direct mode. 
There are faults in the construction of schoolrooms 
still : there are faults in respect to discipline in 
schools : there are faults in respect to punishments 
in school life. I do not at this moment dwell on 



LEARNING AND HEALTH. 119 

these, and for the simple reason that they are de- 
parting errors. No one who has watched the im- 
provements which have been made in schools during 
the past twenty years can fail to see how markedly 
they have advanced ; what care is taken to secure 
good ventilation ; how clean and warm the modern 
schoolroom has become, compared with the school- 
room of the past day. 

No one, again, can doubt that the discipline of 
the modern school is much more correct than it used 
to be, and that the manners and customs of scholars 
in school, and out of school, are superior in every 
particular. Scholars are cleanlier than they were, 
less brutal than they were, and less subjected to those 
painful school accidents which, in *bur forefathers' 
time, were wont to leave their marks for life. 

Lastly, it must be obvious to all that the law of 
kindness in schools is fast replacing the modes of 
ruling by the rod, and other forms of punishment, 
which once stood out as solemn and legalised bar- 
barities : modes which hardened many hearts in their 
first days, and broke more than they hardened ; 
modes which have left their impress even yet in the 
men and women whom they trained into transmissible 
forms of character and mind. 

I may, then, leave these departing shadows on 
the schoolday health, that I may touch more definitely 



120 LEARNING AND HEALTH. 

on the shadows that are now deepening and daily 

falling. 

EDUCATION IN CHILDHOOD. 

The first serious and increasing evil bearing on 
education and its relation to health lies in too early 
subjection of pupils to study. Children are often 
taught lessons from books before they are properly 
taught to walk, and long before they are taught 
properly to play. Play is held out to them, not as a 
natural thing, as something which the parent should 
feel it a duty to encourage, but as a reward for so 
much work done, and as a rest from work done ; as 
though, forsooth, play were not itself a form of work, 
and often work of a most fatiguing nature. Play, 
therefore, is not* used as it ought to be used, as a 
mode of work which the child likes, but rather as a 
set-off against a mode of work which the child does 
not like, and which in nine cases out of ten he does 
not like because it is altogether unfitted for his 
powers ; because Nature is protesting, as loudly as 
she can and as plainly as she can, that the child has 
not arrived at a period of growth when the kind of 
mental food that is forced on it is fitted for its organi- 
sation. 

For children under seven years of age the whole 
of the teaching that should be naturally conveyed 
should be through play, if the body is to be trained up 






LEARNING AND HEALTH. 121 

healthily as the bearer of the mind. And it is wonder- 
ful what an amount of learning can by this method be 
attained. Letters of languages can be taught ; con- 
versations in different languages can be carried on ; 
forms of animal life can be classified ; the surface 
of the earth can be made clear ; history can be told 
as story; and a number of other and most useful 
truths can be instilled without ever forcing the child 
to touch a book or read a formal lesson. 

Under such a system the child grows into know- 
ledge, makes his own inventory of the world that 
surrounds him and the things that are upon it, and, 
growing up free to learn, learns well, and eats, and 
sleeps, and plays well. 

In a child trained after this method, not only is 
health set forth, but happiness likewise, a most 
important item in this period of life. Priestley, who 
was as good an observer of men as he was of in- 
animate nature, was accustomed to say of himself, 
with much gratitude, that he was born of a happy 
disposition ; that he was happy by heredity. So, 
in all his great trials in his failures as a speaker 
because of his defective stammering habit ; in his 
difficulties as a theologian ; in his persecution as a 
suspected politician, flying for his life, having his 
house burned to the ground and all the treasures 
he valued most flung out of window to a senseless, 



122 LEARNING AND HEALTH. 

drunken, groaning mob ; in all these trials, and others 
to come, the cruel, cutting contempt of his col- 
leagues of the Royal Society, and the final parting 
for ever, in his old age, from his beloved England 
that he had served so well ; in all these trials, I repeat, 
which so few could have borne, he sustained the full 
share of his hereditary gifts, his mental happiness and 
health, or I should rather say, his health, and there- 
fore his happiness. 

But this blessed health, which so distinctly pro- 
pagates itself, is never at any period of life so tried as 
in the first years. Then it is confirmed or destroyed, 
made or unmade. 

In this period, in which so many die from various 
causes, Nature herself, at first sight, seems to set up 
continued irritations. It is only that she seems, for if 
she were allowed she would do all her spiriting gently, 
even to the cutting of teeth and the modification of 
digestion to modification of food. 

It is in this period that education is too often 
made for the first time to stand at variance with 
health. It is in this period that the enforced lesson 
so often harasses, wearies, and at last darkens the 
mind. It is in this period that the primary fault is 
committed of making play a set-off against work, and 
a promise of a good game an inducement for the per- 
sistence in hard labour. 



LEARNING AND HEALTH. 123 

What is constantly attempted to be taught in this 
period of life is the saddest detail. I have known a 
regular imposition of work per day, equal to the full 
complement of natural work for many a man or 
woman. There are schools in which children of 
eight, nine, and ten years of age, and, it may be, 
younger children still, are made to study from nine 
o'clock until noon, and again, after a hasty meal and 
an hour for play, from two to five, in the afternoon, 
and later on are obliged to go to lessons once more 
preparatory for the following day. 

The bad fact is, that the work is actually done ; 
and as the brain is very active because it is diverted 
from its natural course, the child it belongs to may be 
rendered so unusually precocious, that it may become 
a veritable wonder. Worse than all, this precocity 
and wonderful cleverness too often encourages both 
parents and teachers to press the little ability to some 
further stretch of ability, so that the small wonder 
becomes an actual exhibition, a receptacle of know- 
ledge that can turn up a date like the chronological 
table of the ' Encyclopaedia Britannica/ give the whole 
history of Cleopatra, to say nothing of the Needle, 
carry you through a Greek verb without a stop, and 
probably recite a dozen selections from the hardest 
poets. 

This is the outside of the marvellous picture. Let 



124 LEARNING AND HEALTH. 

us look at the inside of it, as a skilled eye can easily 
look and read too. These precocious coached-up 
children are never well. Their mental excitement 
keeps up a flush, which, like the excitement caused 
by strong drink in older children, seems like health, 
but has no relation to it If you look at the tongues 
of these children, you see them to be furred or 
covered with many red points like a strawberry, or 
to be too red and very dry. If you inquire into the 
state of the appetite, you find that the appetite is 
capricious ; that all kinds of strange foods are asked 
for, and that the stomach is constantly out of order. 
If you watch the face for long, you note that the 
frequent flush gives way to an unearthly paleness. If 
you watch the eyes, you observe that they gleam with 
light at one time and are dull, depressed, and sad at 
another, while they never are laughing eyes. Their 
brightness is the brightness of thought on the strain 
an evanescent and dangerous phenomenon. If you 
feel the muscles, they are thin and flabby, though in 
some instances they may be fairly covered with fat. 
If you inquire as to the sleep these children get, 
you hear that it is disturbed, restless, and oftentimes 
broken. In a healthy child the sleep comes on irre- 
sistibly at an early hour, and when the eyes are shut 
and the body composed, the sleep is carried out till 
waking time without a movement of position of the 



LEARNING AND HEALTH. 125 

body. You ask the healthy child about his sleep, 
and he says that he is simply conscious of having 
closed his eyes and opened them again. But these 
unhealthy over-taught children have no such elysium. 
They sleep, perchance to dream ; to dream during 
.half the night, and to be assailed with all the pressures 
and labours of dreams ; passing through strange 
abodes and narrow crevices which it seems impossible 
to squeeze into ; and waking in a start, in what is com- 
monly called a nightmare, with the body cold, and 
sometimes in somnambulism or sleep-walking. The 
bad sleep naturally leads to a certain over-wakeful 
languor the next day; but, strangely enough, it in- 
terferes with the natural advent of sleep the next 
night, so that sleeplessness at night becomes a habit. 
The child must be read to sleep, or told stories until 
it is off ; and thus it falls into slumber fed with the 
food of dreams, worries, cares, and wonders. 

In this period of early education, first stage of 
what may be fairly called the intemperance of educa- 
tion, the recreations that are adopted for the little 
scholar are often as pernicious as any other part of 
the system in which he or she is trained. During the 
day-pastimes, a want of freshness and freedom pre- 
vails, almost of necessity, in large towns ; and this 
want is often made worse than it need be by in- 
attention or deficiency of means. 



126 LEARNING AND HEALTH. 

In a town like London there are three classes of 
children, all of whom present different aspects of 
health. 

The children of the poorer people, the children 
that play in the open streets and round the squares, 
are constantly found to present the best specimens of 
health in the whole child community. If these chil- 
dren are well fed at home, and have moderately com- 
fortable beds, and are not put to work for hours too 
long, they are singularly healthy in many instances, 
even though they be the denizens of courts, mews, 
and alleys. It is true that numbers of them inherit 
sad constitutional diseases / it is true that numbers 
of them exhibit deformities of the skeleton, owing to 
the circumstance that during their infancy they were 
not properly fed with food that will yield bone-form- 
ing structure ; still, amongst them are the ruddiest 
and healthiest of the town communities. They owe 
their health to the free and out-door life. 

There is next a class of children belonging to the 
well-to-do. These are taken out for walks in the 
public parks and gardens, or are driven out ; and if 
they be permitted really to enjoy the outing, and are 
not harassed with long lessons at home or at school, 
they are bright and healthy, though it is rare for 
them to present all the natural ruddiness and strength 
that should belong to the spring-time of life. 



LEARNING AND HEALTH. 127 

There is a third class of children who, least fortu- 
nate, lie between the rich and the poor, and who 
belong to the middle trading classes. The parents 
of these children are anxious, for the most correct of 
motives, that their young people shall not run wild in 
the streets to mix with children who are of a different 
class and are under different influences. At the same 
time, they are unable to send their children out to 
the parks or suburbs, as their wealthier neighbours 
are. The consequence is, that these children are kept 
close at home, or at school. They have to live in 
small rooms badly ventilated or irregularly ventilated ; 
and, albeit they are well clothed and well fed and 
comfortably bedded, they grow up all but universally 
unhealthy. 

These children are they who specially suffer from 
too close work at books and educational labour 
generally. They are usually very pale, muscularly 
feeble, and depressed in mind. They grow up irre- 
solute, and yield a large, by far the largest, number 
of those who fill up the death-roll of that disease of 
fatal diseases, pulmonary consumption. 

For fourteen years of my life I was physician to 
one of the hospitals in this metropolis to which so 
many of those who are afflicted with consumption 
find their way. Twice, and occasionally three times 
a week, the duty of inquiry into the origin of this 



128 LEARNING AND HEALTH. 

disease came to my share of professional work. The 
field of observation was extensive, and no fact was 
yielded in it so definitely as this fact, that the larger 
proportion of the consumptive population has been 
brought up in close schoolrooms, where the school 
hours were far too prolonged, and then in close rooms 
at home, where other work, in confined space, filled up 
the remaining lifetime. 

It is to be confessed that many practical diffi- 
culties lie in the way of parents of children of the 
classes I have just named. But there are no insur- 
mountable difficulties to improvement. An intelligent 
public demand for improvement would very soon 
lead to an extension of what are called garden-schools 
for the young, in which teaching by amusing lessons, 
or games of learning, in a pure air and ample space, 
would secure all the advantages which are now so 
much desired. In our large and splendid Board 
Schools, which are becoming distinct and beautiful 
social features of the age, something towards this sys- 
tem is approached, if not attained. 

EDUCATION IN BOYHOOD AND GIRLHOOD. 

fn the education which is bestowed on the young 
in the next stage of life, I mean, on those who are 
passing from the eleventh to the sixteenth or seven- 
teenth years of life, the errors committed in respect 



LEARNING AND HEALTH. 129 

to health are often as pronounced as in the earlier 
stage. 

This period of life is in many respects extremely 
critical. The rapid growth of the organs of the 
body, the still imperfect and imperfected condition of 
the most vital organs : the quick changing, and yet 
steadily developing form of mind, which, like the hand- 
writing, is now being constructed : the imitative 
tendency of the mind : and, not to name other 
peculiarities, the intensity of feelings in the way of 
likes and hates : all these conditions, physical and 
mental, make this stage of a human career singularly 
liable to disorders of a functional or even of an or- 
ganic kind. For one organ of the body, or for one 
propensity of the mind, to outgrow, or out-develop 
another or others, is the easiest of all accidents in 
this stage of life, unless care be taken to preserve a 
correct balance. 

The lines of error carried out in this period run in 
three directions at least, all tending to impair the 
healthy and natural growth. The first of these errors 
is over-work, which often is useless over-work. The 
second is deficient skill or care in detecting the na- 
tural character of ability ; in other words, the turn of 
mind, and, it may be said, capability, of the learner. 
The third is the system of forcing the mind into need- 
less competitions, by which passions which are not in- 



130 LEARNING AND HEALTH. 

tellectual, but animal, feed the intellectual soul with 
desire, and, by creating an over-development of the 
nervous-physical seats of passion, make or breed a 
soul of passions which may never be quenched in after 
life, until it, itself, puts out the life abruptly by the 
weariness it inflicts. 

I have sketched from a trustworthy record the 
work of learning imposed on a pale and nervous boy 
at a school, the discipline of which is by some felt to 
be rather light than heavy. Any four of the subjects 
therein named were really sufficient to occupy all the 
natural powers for the work of that young mind, 
but there are five subjects ; Latin or Greek, English, 
Arithmetic, History, and the French or German 
language, with writing superadded as an exercise. 
For these exercises of the mind eight hours of work 
are necessary ; and if this period of labour were en- 
forced, with two hours for meals and ablutions, and 
four hours for play, it would require all the remaining 
ten hours, out of the twenty-four, for sleep, in order 
to supply that perfect renovation of body, that extra 
nutrition which growth of the developing organs of 
the body so rigorously demands. The tax is extreme 
while growth is in progress. But it seems never to 
be conceived, in respect to the human animal, that 
growth is labour. To put a horse into harness at too 
early a time of its life, and to make it work hard as 



LEARNING AND HEALTH. 131 

it is growing, is considered the most ignorant of pro- 
cesses ; while to work a growing child harder pro- 
bably at that time than at more advanced periods of 
life, is often considered the most correct and vigilant 
of processes. 

This educational training brings, according to my 
experience, only one result, a reduced standard of health 
and life. Boys and girls subjected to it are rendered 
pale, thin, irritable, feverish, restless at night, and 
feeble. A thoroughly good diet, and brisk play, and 
kind and sympathetic encouragement, may diminish 
the evil, and, I am bound to say, often do dimipish 
it; but these aids, at their best, do no more than 
diminish. The root of the danger remains, and for 
delicate children the aids are a poor shield against the 
diseases of lungs, of heart, of nervous system, that are 
ever threatening and giving cause for alarm. How 
easily such over-worked children take cold during 
vicissitudes of season, how severely they suffer when 
they are attacked with the epidemic diseases, the 
common experience of every practising physician 
proves. For these diseases are themselves of nervous 
origin, and find the readiest place in exhausted nervous 
natures. 

So the brilliant boy or girl of the school, whose 
intelligence has pre-illuminated the world, too fre- 
quently dies ; and the dull boy or girl, the hulk of the 



132 LEARNING AND HEALTH. 

school, escapes back to health from variations of it. 
And alas ! say the admiring mourners of the dead, 
alas ! it is true, ' whom the gods love die young.' 
Alas ! it is false, I say. Whom the gods love die 
old ; go through their appointed course, fulfil their 
appointed duties, and sink into their rest, knowing no 
more of death than of birth, and leaving no death- 
stricken mourners at their tombs. 

The breach between health and education in the 
period of studentship now under consideration is 
further evidenced by the method that exists, and as a 
necessity exists in a bad system, of making no prac- 
tical distinction between one learner and another in 
relation to physical capacity and power. It is one of 
the faults in the system of punishments for those 
unfortunates who have broken the laws of the land 
that the same labour is inflicted constantly on persons 
of entirely different physical power, so that either half 
a punishment, or a double punishment, may be im- 
posed for the same offence. This is most unfair, even 
to criminals. It is not a bit more unfair than the 
system in school classes of setting everyone the same 
tasks. To take the boy who has an inherited tendency 
to consumption, or to heart-disease, or to insanity, 
and to place him under the same mental regime as 
another boy who has none of these proclivities, but is 
of healthiest parentage, is a crime in its ignorance. 



LEARNING AND HEALTH. 133 

And, when it is the fact that the healthiest boy in a 
school is, in all probability, himself overworked, it is 
not difficult to see that the work imposed on other 
pupils passing from their eleventh to their seventeenth 
or eighteenth year, makes it impossible for health and 
education to progress side by side, and develop lustily 
together. 

I said there was a second course of error in edu- 
cation at the period of life now under consideration. 
That consists in failing to allow for difference of 
mental capacity and turn of mind in different learners. 
There are many minds of neutral tendency ; minds 
that can take in a certain limited amount of know- 
ledge on almost any and every subject, but which 
can never master much in anything. These minds, if 
they be not unduly pressed and rubbed out, or flat- 
tened down, become in time respectable in learning, 
and sometimes imbued with the plainest common 
sense. These minds bear at school much work with 
comparatively small injury, for they are admittedly 
dull, and great things are not expected of them, and 
great things are not attempted by them. These 
minds do the necessary work of mediocrity, in this 
world, an important work enough, the work of the 
crust of the intellectual sphere. 

There are two other very different orders of minds. 
There is the mind analytical, that looks into details in 



134 LEARNING AND HEALTH. 

business, into elements in science, into figures and 
facts in civil and natural history. In the school such 
a mind is good at arithmetic ; good at mathematics ; 
good at facts and dates ; good at niceties of language. 
In these directions its lessons are pleasures, or, at the 
worst, are scarcely labours. There is, again, the mind 
constructive or synthetic ; the mind which builds ; 
which uses facts and figures, only, in the end, for its 
own purposes of work ; which easily learns principles 
of construction ; which grasps poetry and the hidden 
meaning of the poet ; which is wonderful often for 
memory, but remembers the whole, rarely the parts 
of a theme ; and which cannot, by any pressure in- 
flicted on it, or self-inflicted, take fast hold of minute 
distinctions. 

The true intellect of the world, from the first dawn 
of it until now, has been made up of these two distinct 
forms of mind. They seem antagonistic, and they are 
so ; but out of their antagonism has come the light of 
knowledge and wisdom. They are the representative 
poles of knowledge and of wisdom. The first is know- 
ing, the second wise, two distinct qualities, though 
commonly confounded as one. 

In the small school of the youth, as in the great 
school of the world, these representative orders of 
mind are ever present. The mistake is, that they are 
so commonly confounded, and that no change is made 



LEARNING AND HEALTH. 135 

in the mode of study to suit the genius of the one or 
the other. 

The consequence is that lessons are given to the 
analytical student which he cannot possibly grasp, 
and to the synthetical student which he cannot pos- 
sibly master. Under these conditions both chafe and 
worry and weary, and still do not get on. Then they 
fall into bad health, grow fretful and feverish, are 
punished or slighted, and otherwise made sad, and, it 
may be, revengeful. And so, if they be unduly forced, 
they grow up unhealthy in body and in mind. They 
grow up, feeling as beings who have in some manner 
missed their way in life. The occupation into which 
they have drifted, and in which they have become 
fixed, is not congenial to them ; at last they fall into 
listlessness, and, seeking in amusements and pleasures 
for the treasure they have lost, are trodden into the 
crust of the intellectual sphere, the great mediocrity. 

I said there was a third course of error in edu- 
cational training in this period of life, and I noted 
that as the prize system, the forcing of young minds 
to extremes of competition in learning. This system 
is bad fundamentally. I have been assured by ex- 
cellent teachers that it is bad as a system of teaching, 
and that nothing but the demand for it on the parts 
of ambitious parents and friends could make them 
permit it as a part of their work. They say it obliges 



136 LEARNING AND HEALTH. 

them, as prize days draw near, to devote excessive 
time to the most earnest of the competitors. They 
say that the attention of the whole school is directed 
towards the competitors, who have their special ad- 
mirers ; and so the masses, who, from fear or from 
want of ability, do not compete, are doubly neglected, 
are neglected by their teachers to some extent, and 
are forgetful of their own prospects in the interest 
they take as to the success of their idols. In this 
way, those that are weakest are least, and those that 
are strongest are most, assisted, another illustration 
of the proverb, ' To him that hath shall be given ; but 
from him that hath not shall be taken away even that 
> which he hath/ 

I cannot undertake to confirm this judgment my- 
self, though it sounds like common sense ; but I can 
affirm that in the matter of health, in interference with 
that blessing, the prize system stands at the bar 
guilty of the guilty. You have but to go to a prize 
distribution to see in the worn and pale and languid 
faces of the successful the effect of this system. And 
when you have seen them, you have not seen a tithe 
of the evil. You have not seen the anxious young-old- 
boys or girls at the time of the competition ; you 
have not seen them immediately after it ; you have 
not seen them between the period of competition and 
the announcement of the awards. You have not seen 



LEARNING AND HEALTH. 137 

the injury inflicted by the news of success to those 
who have won and by the news of failure to others who 
have lost. If you could, as through a transparent body, 
have seen all the changes incident to these events ; if 
you could only have seen one set of phenomena alone, 
the violent over-action and the succeeding depressed 
action of the beating hearts, you would have seen 
enough to tell you how mad a system you have been 
following to its results, and how much the dull and 
neglected scholars are to be envied by the side of the 
bright and, for the moment, the applauded and flat- 
tered and triumphant. 

These bad physical results the physician alone 
sees, as a rule, and he not readily, since the evil does 
not of necessity appear at the moment, nor does he, 
nor do others, see the remaining evils from the phy- 
sical side. It requires a study of the mental con- 
dition produced by the competition, of the effect of 
that condition on the passions, and of the influence 
of the passions on the nutrition and maintenance of 
the body, to know or surmise the secondary mischiefs 
to health which these fierce mental struggles in girl- 
hood and boyhood inflict on the woman and the man. 

While this lecture has been in preparation I have 
received from Dr. Holbrook, the editor of the Herald 
of Health of New York, one of his miniature tracts on 
Health, in which he records the experiences of men 



138 LEARNING AND HEALTH. 

who have lived long, laborious, and successful lives, 
and the reasons they assign for having enjoyed such 
prolonged health and mental activity. The tract 
before me contains letters from two men of great 
eminence, namely, William Cullen Bryant and William 
Howitt. A part of William Hewitt's letter so admi- 
rably expresses the lesson I am now endeavouring to 
teach that I quote it in full. It refers to his early 
life, and its perfect freedom of learning : " My boy- 
hood and youth were, for the most part, spent in the 
country ; and all country objects, sports, and labours, 
horse-racing and hunting excepted, have had a never- 
failing charm for me. As a boy, I ranged the country 
far and wide in curious quest and study of all the 
wild creatures of the woods and fields, in great delight 
in birds and their nests, climbing the loftiest trees, 
rocks, and buildings in pursuit of them. In fact, the 
life described in the ' Boy's Country Book ' was my 
own life. No hours were too early for me, and in the 
bright sunny fields in the early mornings, amid dews 
and odour of flowers, I breathed that pure air which 
gave a life-long tone to my lungs that I still reap the 
benefit of. All these daily habits of climbing, running, 
and working, developed my frame to perfection, and 
gave a vigour to nerve and muscle that have stood 
well the wear and tear of existence. My brain was 
not dwarfed by excessive study in early boyhood, as 



LEARNING AND HEALTH. 139 

is too much the case with children of to-day. Nature 
says, as plainly as she can speak, that the infancy of 
all creatures is sacred to play, to physical action, and 
the joyousness of mind that give life to every organ 
of the system. Lambs, kittens, kids, foals, even young 
pigs and donkeys, all teach the great lesson of Nature, 
that to have a body healthy and strong, the prompt 
and efficient vehicle of the mind, we must not infringe 
on her ordinations by our study and cramping seden- 
tariness in life's tender years. We must not throw 
away or misappropriate her forces destined to the 
corporeal architecture of man, by tasks that belong 
properly to an after time. There is no mistake so 
fatal to the proper development of man and woman 
as to pile on the immature brain, and on the yet 
unfinished fabric of the human body, a weight of 
premature, and, therefore, unnatural, study. In most 
of those cases where Nature has intended to produce 
a first-class intellect, she has guarded her embryo 
genius by a stubborn slowness of development. Mo- 
derate study and plenty of play and exercise in early 
youth are the true requisites for a noble growth of 
intellectual powers in man, and for its continuance to 
old age." 

EDUCATION IN ADOLESCENCE. 
In the education that is bestowed on the young 
in the period of their adolescence, namely, from the 



140 LEARNING AND HEALTH. 

seventeenth or eighteenth to the twenty-second or 
twenty-third years, there is, I regret to say, no re- 
deeming quality in regard to health as an attendant 
consideration. 

Young men and young women who are now pre- 
senting themselves for the higher-class examinations 
at our universities and public boards are literally 
crushed by the insanity of the effort. It has happened 
to me within the past year to have under observation 
four of these victims to the inquisition of learning. 

In one of these examples, where success, so called, 
crowned the effort, in addition to many minor injuries 
inflicted on the body, an absence of memory has suc- 
ceeded the cram, so that names of common places are 
for the time quite forgotten ; while the subjects that 
were got up so accurately have become a* mere con- 
fused dream, in which all that relates to useful learning 
is inextricably buried. 

In another of these competitors, the period of 
competition was attended with an entire absence of 
sleep, and thereby with that exhaustion which leads 
almost to delirious wandering of mind. Here failure 
led to an extreme depression, to a forgetfulness of the 
reason of failure, and to a listlessness, on all subjects, 
it will take months to cure. 

In the third example to which I refer, sleepless- 
ness, labour, and excitement brought on an hereditary 



LEARNING AND HEALTH. 141 

tendency to intermitting action of the heart, to un- 
steadiness of power, and thereby to an uncertainty of 
effort, which almost of necessity led to failure of 
attempt. Even cram in an instance of this nature 
backed by all the assiduity that will and patience 
and industry could support, was obliged to fail 
because the physical force was not at hand to keep 
the working body in accord with the mental power. 
Ignorant of what they were after, the examiners who 
were putting on their screw were not examining the 
mental qualities of this youth at all, but were really 
trying how long his heart would hold out under their 
manipulation. 

In the fourth instance, it was my duty to decide 
whether a youth, brought up just to the condition for 
going into the inquisition, should, worn and wearied 
with the labour, bloodless and sleepless, run the risk, 
being quite ready for it, or should, at the last 
moment, take six months' entire rest, and then be got 
up to the same pitch of lifelessness and misery again. 

Is there any occasion to wonder at these pheno- 
mena ? One of the members of my profession has a 
son who originally was a lad of good parts, and who, 
after undergoing the inquisition, has had to wander 
about for months in travel, helpless in mental and phy- 
sical state 'more like an idiot,' said his father to me, 
than anything else. Is there any occasion to wonder 



142 LEARNING AND HEALTH. 

at these phenomena, I repeat ? None. In some of 
these inquisitions each examiner can pluck from his 
own paper, and there are several examiners. Ask 
one of those examiners to answer the paper of another 
examiner, and see what he would do. The unhappy 
student has to answer them all. 

The system is doing sufficient evil to men ; but 
what is to happen to the world if women, anxious to 
emulate, are to have their way, and, like moths, 
follow their sterner mates into the midnight candle of 
learning ? Up to this time the stability of the race 
in physical and mental qualities has greatly rested on 
the women. Let the fathers do what they might, 
in this age dissipate and duel and fight ; in that age 
smoke, drink, and luxuriate ; in another age run after 
the vain shadows of competitive exercises, mental or 
physical ; still the women remained unvitiated, so 
that one-half the authorship of the race was kept 
intact as reasonable and responsible beings. In other 
words, there were mothers as well as fathers. But if 
in these days women, catching the infection of the 
present system, succeed in their clamour for admission 
into the inquisition, and mothers thereupon go out, 
as they certainly will, just in proportion as they go 
in, the case will be bad indeed for the succeeding 
generations. 

Some wise man has given us, if we would read 



LEARNING AND HEALTH. 143 

his lesson correctly, the moral of this kind of effort in 
the wonderful story .of Babel. 

It is quite true. You cannot build a temple that 
reaches to heaven, though all the world try. It is 
not, that is to say, by forcing the minds of men to 
learn, that man can penetrate the secrets of nature 
and know them. If one learned man could seize and 
hold and apply the knowledge of two learned men, 
there might be a progression of knowledge in geo- 
metrical ratio, and soon, in truth, 

Men would be angels, angels would be gods. 

To this Nature says No ; and when the attempt is 
made, she corrects it by the interruption she sets up, 
through the corporeal mechanism, to the mental strife 
and contagion. 

To let this struggle against Nature progress up to 
confusion of tongues, in which one learned man shall 
not understand another, is a far easier thing than 
many suppose ; for Nature is unswerving in her 
course, and the struggle now is far advanced towards 
its natural consummation. 

For a time yet it may be necessary to subject 
men who are to carry out responsible professional 
labours, in the practice of which life or property is 
concerned, to certain efficient tests as proofs of know- 
ledge and skill Such examinational tests may easily 



144 LEARNING AND HEALTH. 

be conducted without being made in any sense 
competitive, and without in any sense doing an injury 
to health and life. But at best, such tests are arbi- 
trary, and define no more than the capacity of the 
man at the period of his entry into manhood. At 
that period there is presented but one phase of 
mental life among many varying phases; and to 
let the brand of superiority stamped at that age, 
however distinguished the superiority then may be, 
stand forth as the all-sufficient distinguishing mark 
for a lifetime, would indeed be, and indeed is, in- 
justice and foolishness. 

It is a very bad system that suggests such a mode 
of obtaining a claim to permanent superiority, and 
the effects of the present system are shown in their 
most mischievous character in this very particular. 

The man who succeeds in gaining the great com- 
petitive honours is usually content to rest on them, 
and rarely wins other distinctions in after life. It is 
doubtful, indeed, whether the training is not fatal to 
the after distinction, and whether the great geniuses 
of the world would ever have appeared at all, if, in 
their early days, they had been oppressed by the 
labour, strain, and anxiety of the competition, or 
had been bound by the hard-and-fast lines of the 
dogmatic learning upon which the competition was 
based. I believe myself that brilliant after-distinc- 



LEARNING AND HEALTH. 145 

tion is altogether incompatible with early competi- 
tive superiority gained by the struggles I have indi- 
cated, and that the evils now so widespread amongst 
our better-class communities will find their full cor- 
rection in the circumstance that the geniuses of the 
nation and the leaders of the nation will henceforth 
be derived, unless there be a reformation of system, 
from those simple pupils of the board schools 
who, entering into the conflicts of life able to read, 
write, and calculate, are left free of brain for the 
acquirement of learning of any and every kind, in the 
full powers of developed manhood. 

Be this as it may, I am sure that the present plan, 
which strands men and women on the world of active 
life, old in knowledge before their time, and ready 
to rest from acquirement on mere devotion of an 
automatic kind to some one particular pursuit, is 
directly injurious to health both of body and mind. 

Continued action of the mind and varied action 
of the mind are essentials to length of life and health 
of life, and those brain- workers who have shown the 
greatest skill in varied pursuits, even when their works 
have been laborious, have lived longest and happiest 
and best. 

The truth is, that when men do not die of some 
direct accident or disease, they die, in nine cases out of 
ten, from nervous failure. And this is the peculiarity 



146 LEARNING AND HEALTH. 

of nervous failure, that it may be fatal from one 
point of the nervous organism, the rest being sound. 
A man may therefore wear himself out by one mental 
exercise too exclusively followed, while he may live 
through many exercises extended over far greater 
intervals of time and involving more real labour if 
they be distributed over many seats of mental faculty. 
Just as a sheet of ice will bear many weights if 
they be equally distributed upon it, but will give way 
and break up at one point from a lesser weight, so 
the brain will bear an equally distributed strain of 
work for many years, while pressure not more severe 
on one point will destroy it in a limited period, and 
with it the body it animates. 

CONCLUSION. 

Let health and education go hand-in-hand, and 
the progress of the world, physically and mentally, is 
sound and sure. 

Let the brain, in the first stage of life, make its 
own inventory : distress it not with learning, nor sad- 
ness, or romance of passion. Let it take Nature as 
a second mother for its teacher. 

In the second age, instil gently and learn the order 
of mind that is being rendered a receiving body : 
allay rather than encourage ambition : do not push 
on the strong, but help the feeble. 



LEARNING AND HEALTH. 147 

In adolescence, let the studies, taking their natural 
bent, be more decisive and defined as towards some 
particular end or object, but never distressing, 
anxious, or distractingly ambitious. Let this be an 
age for probation into the garden of knowledge, and 
of modest claim to admission there ; not for a charge 
by assault, and for an entry with clarion and standard 
and claim of so much conquered possession. 

And for the rest, let the course be a continued 
learning, so that with the one and chief pursuit of 
life other pursuits may mingle happily, and life be 
not 

a dissonant thing 
Amid the universal harmony. 

My task is done. I find no fault with any par- 
ticular class, either of teachers or pastors or masters. 
I speak only against a prevailing error, for which no 
one is specially at fault, but for which all are some- 
what at fault, however good the object had in view 
may be. 

What we now witness in the way of mental 
competition is but the old system of physical compe- 
titive prowess in a new form ; and when the evils of 
it are seen, and when the worse than uselessness of it 
is detected, it will pass away as all such errors do 
after the universal mind which sustains them sees 
and appreciates the wrong that is being done. I 



148 LEARNING AND HEALTH. 

believe sincerely that the errors I have ventured to 
describe, and which at this present separate health 
from education, will in due time be recognised and 
removed. 

In a leading article last year, in one of our power- 
ful and widely-read newspapers, on a lecture of mine 
delivered in this place, there was an expression of 
regret that I, as a man of science, should deal so 
earnestly with subjects so trivial as these. Suppose 
the subjects to be trivial, and then in answer I might 
fairly quote, ' there are mites in science as well as in 
charity, and the ultimate results of each are often 
alike important and beneficial.' But I deny the 
triviality. I ask, if these subjects, which refer to the 
very life-blood of the nation, be trivial, what are the 
solemn subjects, and who are dealing with them ? 

I read in another and scientific paper, that to 
state facts of a similar order to those I have now 
related, to a public as distinct from a strictly pro- 
fessional audience, is a sure means by which to hurt 
tender susceptibilities, and of a certainty to give to 
some a cause of offence. To that criticism I reply, 
as I conclude, in the words of plain-speaking Jerome : 
' If an offence come out of truth, better is it the 
offence come than the truth be concealed.' 



V. 

VITALITY, INDIVIDUAL AND NATIONAL. 

T N the present dearth of political spirit and adven- 
ture in home and social topics, it may be worth 
an hour of our time to consider a subject which will 
one day absorb all others : the mode of cultivating 
the people who make up a nation in such a nanner 
as to ensure for them the highest attainable vital 
capacity and endurance. 

Hitherto, this great subject has belonged almost 
exclusively as a study to the physician, who has, 
naturally, only surveyed it from his professional, and 
therefore limited, point of view. He is obliged to see, 
in the course of his experience, different men, and 
different races of men, coming before him bearing 
certain physical or mental deficiencies which he is 
expected to relieve or remove. Under observation 
forced on him in this way, he soon learns that the 
vital capacity of persons of the most powerful organi- 
sation is often much smaller than that of persons of 



ISO VITALITY, INDIVIDUAL AND NATIONAL. 

feebler and less striking development ; and if he ven- 
tures to apply his learning so as to make it extend 
from details to principles, he sees a national question 
arising out of what was at first to him a question 
purely professional. He detects that there might, in 
the course of history, be a subjugation of a race of 
powerful physical build, by a race physically weaker in 
build but stronger in endurance, because endowed with 
a capacity for life more determinate and excellent. 

Thus the physician becomes, unconsciously, a 
politician, studying the very basis of national charac- 
ter, power and existence. 

It will be my object in the present essay to treat 
upon some of the facts which have been elicited by this 
study of a part of the natural history of man. I shall 
as briefly as possible try to notice : 

1. The physiological meaning of vitality. 

2. Individual and collective vitalities. 

3. Vitality in relation to race. 

4. Influences modifying vitality. 

THE MEANING OF THE TERM VITALITY. 

Vitality extends to men as light extends from one 
torch to another ; but in itself it is individual, and 
the excellence of it or the worthlessness of it rests on 
the care by which it is maintained in the individual 
person. Thus the vitality of the future rests largely 



VITALITY, INDIVIDUAL AND NATIONAL. 151 

on that of the present, and we who now exist are 
moulding the vitalities of those who are to follow us. 
Every step of our physiological research of late years 
has led to this inference. The very endurance of 
vital action in one organic form against time is deter- 
mined more largely by the preparation for it in pre- 
existing organic forms than upon any other condition, 
not excluding the physical safeties with which those 
who die many times before their deaths so carefully 
surround themselves. 

The simplest question, the first natural question 
respecting this vitality, is the deepest and the last to 
be reached. It is : What is vitality ? Is the whole uni- 
verse filled with it as it is with light, and does it enter 
certain properly constructed organised forms as light 
enters the eye ? If so, perchance the construction, or 
the mode of that organic mechanism, might one day 
be discovered. Time was when the eye was an un- 
known structure as a mechanism, and when he had 
been an adventurous man who had dared to say it 
would be imitated in all its parts by human arts ; that 
glass should represent its lenses, perforated wood its 
curtains, and paper its screens. Yet the camera, in a 
rudely perfect sense, is an eye, condensing light in the 
same way ; seizing external nature in the same man- 
ner ; transferring the picture seized to the screen, in 
like fashion. 



1 52 VITALITY, INDIVIDUAL AND NATIONAL. 

Vitality may indeed be like light. There may be 
in, or through infinite space, an ether which pervades 
matter fitted to receive it, and which, put in motion, 
is the fountain of life. From this view none need 
shrink. It is the most orthodox of all views. It is 
the theory of the breath of life that was breathed into 
man when he became a living soul. 

Vitality may be an emanation from the living 
thing. Suppose it be so. Yet it pre-existed. It 
entered condensed and concealed to go forth. The 
light from the taper is not in the taper, in the ordi- 
nary understanding of the term, but the force which 
sets in motion the light is there. We may swallow 
the vitality concealed in food. We may breathe it 
with the air. 

The most probable view is, that we actually feed 
on the vital force that endows us with mere motion, 
breathe it in an atmosphere in which the force once 
set in motion can continue to be set free. That we 
are in fact subdued fires, burning passively in that in- 
visible envelope which itself will not burn, but will let 
us burn within it. 

But this mere physical element of vitality does 
not prompt us to motion. As the steam-engine is 
motionless till the hand of the engineer outside the 
mechanism sets the motion free and in order, accor- 
ding to the build of the machine ; so we, while our 



VITALITY, INDIVIDUAL AND NATIONAL. 153 

purely physical organism is in motion, are moved 
by some influences or impressions from without, which 
pass through our senses, which traverse our nervous 
cords when they permit it, and which are ever in 
manifold activity whether we are present or not to be 
influenced : which existed before we were, and exist 
after we are dead. 

If this be the true reading, and it is the reading 
which many years of special study of the phenomena 
has impressed most seriously on me, then vitality is, 
from even a physical point of view, a compound of 
two processes ; a mechanical and, there is no better 
word, a spiritual. The mechanical part, perfect 
when it is natural, but destructible and destined to 
run only a given course limited by time : the spiritual 
indestructible, moulding the physical to its uses, and, 
to our present senses incorporeal : acting sometimes 
by one wave or impulse through masses of living 
beings : acting always in some measure through 
masses, in so far as the general outline of the living 
things permit ; but acting also individually, through 
and by reason of the physical peculiarities of the 
individual. 

What, then, we should abstractedly call vitality is 
universal, and in persistent operation in inanimate 
matter, constituted to be animated. What we call 
life is the manifestation of this persistent and all- 



154 VITALITY, INDIVIDUAL AND NATIONAL. 

pervading principle of Nature in properly organised 
substance. What we call death, or devitalisation, is 
the reduction of matter to the sway of other forces, 
which do not destroy it, but which change its mode 
of motion from the concrete to the diffuse, and, after 
a time, render it altogether incapable of manifesting 
vital action until it be recast in the vital mould. 

We are at this moment ignorant of the time 
when vitality ceases to act on matter that has been 
vitalised. Presuming that an organism can be 
arrested in its living in such manner that its parts 
shall not be injured to the extent of actual destruc- 
tion of tissue, or to change of organic form, the vital 
wave seems ever ready to pour into the body again 
so soon as the conditions for its action are re-esta- 
blished. Thus, in some of my experiments for 
suspending the conditions essential for the visible 
manifestations of life in cold-blooded animals, I have 
succeeded in re-establishing the condition under which 
the vital vibrations will influence, after a lapse not of 
hours, but even of days ; and for my part I know no 
limitation to such re-manifestation, except from the 
simple ignorance of us who inquire into the subject. 

The double nature of the living organism, the 
existence of spirit and matter in combined action as 
the source of life, is by far, as I think, the best, as it 
is the most ancient and universal, theory. To treat 



VITALITY, INDIVIDUAL AND NATIONAL. 155 

of life on what are called pure materialistic views is 
to leave science in as helpless a state as any other 
part of human knowledge. What is spirit, what is 
matter, we know not ; where the one extends or the 
other, and to what infinities, we have poor conception. 
We know them only by their reactions, the one on 
the other. We could not know one without the 
other. Whether they be ultimately one or always 
distinct, we may never understand. They are derived 
from the one source, and in the order of Nature are 
equally wonderful even as we, in our present state, 
are able to understand them. 

INDIVIDUAL AND COLLECTIVE VITALITY. 

Whatever thing is before us moving of its own 
instance, from an amoeba to a man, is an organic body 
charged for a time with vitality. It is charged only 
for a time : that we all know, and I need not dwell on 
the fact. But I must dwell on some other points 
which have a direct bearing on the subject before us. 

First, I would indicate that in all races, races of 
animals or races of men, there is, in the given course 
of time for the development of the vitality through 
the organic form, a steady series of similar phenomena. 
These phenomena extend from the beginning of the 
vital organic motion to its close in perfect order, when 
they are allowed their natural course. The vitality 



156 VITALITY, INDIVIDUAL AND NATIONAL. 

begins to act and ceases to act with equal imper- 
ception to him in whom it is manifested. 

The natural course of vitality in different classes of 
living things of animals as well as men is probably 
absolute when it is perfectly natural. It may undergo 
changes in course of ages, but these are too im- 
perceptible to affect us in our appreciation of ruling 
law. 

In man the order of vitality, the course in each 
individual, seems to be fairly divisible into four 

stages : 

1. Birth to adolescence. 

2. Adolescence to maturity. 

3. Maturity to decline. 

4. Decline to death. 

At this period of human existence the time for 
these stages, when they are naturally cast, runs, as I 
think, as follows : 

First stage. From birth to 23 years. 
Second stage. From 23 to 45 years. 
Third stage. From 45 to 67 years. 
Fourth stage. From 67 to 90 years. 

Dr. Farr has placed the possible duration of 
human life at a higher figure than I have given in 
the above estimates. He has expressed the idea that 



VITALITY, INDIVIDUAL AND NATIONAL. 157 

a hundred years may one day be the natural extreme 
of human life. 

Whatever the increased extension may become, 
it will be meted out in the third and the last terms of 
life : I mean in the period beyond that when the body 
has reached its maturity. The laws of adolescence 
and maturity are, it would appear, carried out on a 
definite physiological plan ; but when they are passed 
there may be extension of life during the time 
previous to decline, and during the period of decline. 

As a rule the extension will, I think, occur in the 
period of decline. At that period the natural feeble- 
ness which is felt to be approaching leads to greater 
care in protecting the body from the vicissitudes of 
heat or cold. By this care, which is thus as it were 
instinctively felt as a necessity, it is astonishing how 
long life may be preserved, even in comfort, when the 
care can be bestowed. Lord Bacon said that old men 
are like ruined towers, conveying that although old 
men may look hale and hearty, they are apt suddenly 
to fall. This also is true, and yet it is strange how 
long the ruined towers will often stand. 

The extension of life in the periods after maturity 
is variable in different classes of animals. In cold- 
blooded animals the duration is great, and in some, 
as for example in the turtle and the pike, extremely 
great The duration is, however, not confined to cold 

8 



158 VITALITY, INDIVIDUAL AND NATIONAL. 

bloods ; it is met with in birds, which have a higher 
temperature than any other of the vertebrated classes 
of animals, from eight to nine degrees higher than 
the temperature of man. The parrot is a marked 
instance, in birds, of an animal that may live to a 
very great age. I have seen one which lived over a 
century. 

In domestic warm-blooded animals, like the horse 
and the dog, the variations in duration of life arise, 
as a rule, from work or deficient provisional care. 

In man the variation is most extreme : from one- 
third of the natural period to half, to two-thirds to 
the full term, and this in our country amongst great 
masses of the population. 

The difference is governed largely by heredity. 
As a rule, the individual life may be fairly estimated 
from the mean of the parental life. Thus, if the one 
parent die at seventy and the other at ninety, the life 
of the offspring, other things being equal, will be 
eighty years, if nothing in way of accident occur to 
check the natural course. If both parents live far 
and equally into the fourth term, the probability is 
that the offspring may live still longer. On the 
other hand, if both parents die early in the second 
term, the probability is that the life of the offspring 
will be shorter than that of the parents. 

These facts in relation to heredity have led to the 



V1TAL11Y, INDIVIDUAL AND NATIONAL. 159 

common belief that marriages of consanguinity are 
unfavourable to length of life. 

This is very true and very false. Marriages of 
healthy stocks in close relationships yield the best 
lives, while marriages of unhealthy stocks in close 
relationship yield the worst of lives. 

I have knowledge of one village in this country 
in which marriages of consanguinity may be said to 
be the universal rule. In that village the people are 
amongst the healthiest of the community. I could 
trace amongst them no evidence of any serious 
constitutional disease, nor of deformity of body. 

I have observed the same freedom from disease 
in families in which intermarriage is the rule ; the 
stocks being healthy. On the other hand, I have 
known a whole family, and a large family, die clean 
out by intermarriage, the parental stocks on both sides 
being afflicted hereditarily with constitutional disease. 

A curious question is sometimes raised as to the 
reason why there should be hereditary wealth of in- 
dividual life ? It may be laid down as a general rule, 
that certain external conditions of life tend to level the 
duration of all lives. Still some persons escape con- 
ditions which others do not escape. Why ? To this 
question I can see but one answer, but it is an answer 
which is every day yielded by experience and obser- 
vation. It is, that those who escape longest the free'- 



160 VITALITY, INDIVIDUAL AND NATIONAL. 

dom of external conditions telling against life, possess 
an equal balance of good working organs of the body, 
not one of which is specially inclined to take on any 
form of disease of a particular kind, such as tubercle 
or cancer. The whole body, therefore, continues to 
work, in all its parts, in harmonious order of function, 
and, by the steadiness of functional work, the continuous 
life is maintained. Life, in short, is maintained by 
equality of perfection in every organ. 

And this is what is really meant by a good consti- 
tution, whenever that term is correctly applied. The 
frame of the body which offers this goodness of con- 
stitution may be small ; strangely enough, it may even 
be indifferently developed and yet, by evenly distri- 
buted soundness of organic parts, it may continue in 
action longer than a larger and more finely developed 
frame which, pierced in one vital organ by disease, 
succumbs beneath a single organic failure. 

I have indicated, a page or two past, the perfection 
of the term of natural human life. I have confined the 
term to man, as the organic life in which we are 
specially interested, and I have assigned ninety years, 
barring accidents, as the natural term of the action of 
vitality on the vitalised organised matter out of which 
the body of man is constructed. In this estimate I have 
narrowed the time to its lowest natural dimensions. 
Beyond the natural accidents so extreme and occa- 



VITALITY, INDIVIDUAL AND NATIONAL. 161 

sional to which I have drawn attention, there is no 
inevitable reason which the physiologist can detect 
why that period at least should not be attained by 
the majority of mankind. Towards this the evidence 
of the statistician is equally authoritative. In the 
report on the census of this kingdom for 1871, the 
reporter observes that, under an ascertained law, the 
members of a generation fall off at the rate of mor- 
tality continually increasing, but yielding a series of 
lives terminating at no definite point : so that man 
goes through successive changes which are not com- 
pleted in less than one hundred years, to which 
term a perfect life may, in ages to come, approxi- 
mate. To these notes he adds also the following 
facts : 

In the population of 1871, there were 124,808 
persons of the age of eighty and upwards who were 
born before the French Revolution : 499,779 who 
had passed the term of three score and ten, but had 
not attained to four score years : 1,050,138 men and 
women who were sixty and under seventy years 
of age : 3,973,863 who were at the judicial or intel- 
lectual age, of which fifty years, t.e. between forty 
and sixty, is the middle point : 6,841,897 who were 
at the athletic or beautiful age, ranging from twenty 
to forty years : and 10,436,229 in the ages under 
twenty, viz., of infancy, school and apprenticeship, 



1 62 VITALITY, INDIVIDUAL AND NATIONAL. 

the coming generation of Englishmen and English- 
women. 

The mean age of the people living, if there were 
no migration and the births were constant, was 32*05 
years. Of the males 3177, of the females 32-33. 

The mean lifetime was 40*88 years. Of the males 
39-91, of the females 41-85. 

These facts show that, in spite of our bad condi- 
tions, 124,808 persons reached the close of the fourth 
term of life, and over one million the close of the 
third term. 

But the facts also show that the majority of 
individuals did not reach the close of the second 
term, or half the natural period of the perfected life. 

It is a very fair proceeding to extend these calcu- 
lations from one nation to another. This has been 
admirably done, on statistical evidence, by one of my 
American brethren, under the title of the " Effective 
Population of the World," that is to say the relative 
rank of different countries, according to their effective 
populations. The abstract was first published in this 
country in the " Pall Mall Gazette," on September 4th, 
1874, and the facts and comments are so appropriate 
to the present topic that I reproduce them. By 
effective population the author means the population 
between twenty and seventy years of age. "In those 
fifty years," he remarks, " each generation not only 



VITALITY, INDIVIDUAL AND NATIONAL. 163 

provides for its own present wants and the needs 
of its old age, but also saves enough to main- 
tain its children up to twenty. Of course this is 
not exactly true. Many are productively employed 
before twenty, and some continue to produce after 
seventy. But the exceptions are not numerous 
enough to disturb the comparisons ; and, besides, they 
are almost equally frequent in all countries. Another 
circumstance which diminishes the value of the statis- 
tics is, that they make no allowance for the different 
proportions of the effective population non-produc- 
tively employed in different countries. For example, 
they take no account of the enormous standing army 
of France, nor of the still more enormous pauper popu- 
lation of England. The figures represent, therefore, 
the potential rather than the actual effective popula- 
tions. Understanding them so, then, it appears that 
in proportion France possesses the largest effective 
population of any country ; Switzerland is next ; 
Belgium is third ; Prussia is eighth, England ninth, 
and Ireland last. France stands highest, no doubt, 
because her population is stationary/ while Ireland 
stands lowest, because of the drain of emigration, and 
probably, too, of the early marriages and large families 
common there. The proportion of the effective class 
in France exceeds that in Ireland by 35 per cent, 
and even in England the proportion is higher than in 



164 VITALITY, INDIVIDUAL AND NATIONAL. 

Ireland by 12*9 per cent. ; while the effect of immi- 
gration is shown in the United States by the fact that 
the proportion in Massachusetts exceeds that of the 
whites in the Carolinas and in Georgia by 38 per 
cent. ; that is, by more than the excess of France 
over Ireland. Comparing the sustaining power with 
the burden laid upon it, the demand was 94 per cent, 
greater in Ireland than in France. On the whites, 
the demand was in the Carolinas 50 per cent, and in 
Georgia 60 per cent, greater than on the people of 
Massachusetts." 

More interesting and more practically instructive 
is a second series of facts, which exhibits the relative 
vitality of different populations. Judged by this test, 
France falls from the first place, which we have just 
now seen her occupy, to the second lowest, while 
England rises from the ninth to the third. The 
United States also rise, coming, so far as men are 
concerned, next after England. But Ireland still 
remains at the bottom of the list. 

Out of 10,000 children born in Norway as many 
as 7,415, or, roughly speaking, 3 out of every 4, live to 
be twenty years of age. In England only 6,627 so live, 
or 788 fewer than in Norway. In the United States, 
boys have nearly as good a chance of life as in Eng- 
land, while girls have not ; but in France only 5,022 
or scarcely more than I out of 2, reach twenty; 



VITALITY, INDIVIDUAL AND NATIONAL. 165 

while in Ireland, no more than 4,855, or actually less 
than I out of 2, attain that age. More surprising still 
are the statistics regarding old age. Out of the same 
10,000, for example, we learn that in Norway 3,487, 
more than I out of 3, reach seventy ; in England 
almost I out of 4 ; in the United States, in men 
only, I out of 4, a trifle higher than England; in 
France, 1,776, or about I out of 8 \ ; and in Ireland 
only 861, or I out of nj. If these figures are to be 
depended upon, we learn that out of all countries 
in the world Norway offers the new-born child the 
best chance of long life, Ireland offers the worst, 
while France, universally admitted to be, so far as soil 
and climate are concerned, one of the most favoured 
regions of the earth, offers but little better chance 
than Ireland. As regards Ireland, it is obvious that 
the statistics, if collected since the famine, are totally 
misleading. In the first place, the mortality which 
attended the famine, and the pestilence which followed 
it, was altogether abnormal ; and, in the second place, 
there must have emigrated from Ireland, since the ' 
beginning of the famine in the winter of 1845, at 
least 3,000,000 people. If, then, we would know 
the real mortality of the Irish, we must not confine 
our researches to Ireland, but must follow the emi- 
grants to Great Britain, the United States, and the 
British Colonies. None of these remarks, however, 



166 VITALITY, INDIVIDUAL AND NATIONAL. 

apply to France ; and the bad chance of life which 
she offers is certainly most surprising. But, in what- 
ever way accounted for, the cost of these unproductive 
lives to the countries upon which it has fallen is the 
same. 

" In the production of dead machinery," the author 
adds, " the cost of all that is broken in the making is 
charged to the cost of that which is completed. Thus, 
if two things fail when half-finished for every one that 
is completed, the cost of the finished one is doubled ; 
and this increase of cost is in proportion to the ex- 
penditure which has been made or lost on those that 
broke down in the process. So, in estimating the 
cost of raising children to manhood, it is necessary to 
include the number of years that have been lived by 
those that fall by the way, with the years of those that 
pass successfully through the period of development. 
. . . The loss in Ireland was 120 per cent, greater 
in the first year, 75 per cent, in the first four years, 
and 1 20 per cent, greater in the period of growth, than 
in Norway." 

These passages are quoted at length, as setting 
forth in a new light the pecuniary value of sanitary 
precautions and their results in an improvement of 
the public health. 

One other important point illustrated by these 
statistics, is the relative length of life of the portion of 



VITALITY, INDIVIDUAL AND NATIONAL. 167 

the population over twenty, in the different countries 
which afford data for making the calculation. In this 
respect, again, Norway stands first ; Sweden ranking 
second. The United States, still only in respect to 
men, now takes the third place, Hanover the fourth, 
while England is only fifth. And France and Ireland 
are once more at the bottom of the list, Ireland being 
lowest. 

The average length of life of the effective popula- 
tion in Norway is 39*61 years ; in England, 35'55 ; in 
France, 32-84 ; and in Ireland, only 28*88 years. 
Thus it will be seen that, while in Norway the pro- 
portion of the population that reaches twenty survives 
nearly forty years, or four-fifths of the effective period, 
to contribute to the wealth of the community, in 
Ireland the same proportion survives less than twenty- 
nine years, or considerably under three-fifths of the 
effective period. The Irish effective -population has, 
therefore, eleven years less than the Norwegian in 
which to replace the cost of its own maintenance and 
accumulate a capital for its successors. 

The last point illustrated by these curious statistics 
is 'the cost, in years, of creating and maturing human 
power, and the return which it makes in labour in 
compensation.' This is done by showing the number 
of labouring and productive years secured in each 
country for every 1,000 years expended in the 



168 VITALITY, INDIVIDUAL AND NATIONAL. 

* 

developing period upon all who are born, whether 
they die prematurely or live to old age. It appears 
that in Norway, 1,881 years are secured; in England, 
1,688 ; in France, 1,398 ; and in Ireland, only 1,148. 
These results are arrived at from life tables, but the 
dates of the tables are given only in the cases of 
France and Ireland. As regards France, the date is 
1806; and as this was the very middle of the great 
war she was waging against all Europe, and as, be- 
sides, nearly three-quarters of a century have since 
elapsed, it can hardly be but that the chances of life 
have since greatly improved. On the other hand, the 
Irish date is 1841, that is, before the famine, 
and consequently the previous objections do not 
apply to the present calculations. It will be seen 
that Norway still heads the list. In Norway, a larger 
proportion of infants survive than in any other country, 
and when grown up these infants display the greatest 
power of endurance that statistics acquaint us with. 
A thousand years spent in the growing period, pro- 
duce 63 per cent, more of working life among the 
Norwegians than among the Irish, and 13 per cent, 
more than among American men ; while the same 
expenditure among American men produces a return 
of 44 per cent, higher than in Ireland. But it will be 
noticed that, in the case of the United States through- 
out, only men are referred to, while in every other 



VITALITY, INDIVIDUAL AND NATIONAL. 169 

case both sexes are included, mortality in America 
being higher among women than men." 

VITALITY AND RACE. 

\ 

All the facts I have so far detailed show clearly 
that even amongst the most civilised nations the 
vitality presented is far below that which belongs 
rightfully to man, if the natural processes of vitality 
were faithfully conserved. At the same time it is 
probable that at no period in the history of man on 
this globe have the conditions for a prolonged vitality 
been more perfect. By comparison, much of the 
hardships that belonged to more primitive times has 
disappeared, and still, with all the advances and ad- 
vantages of civilised life, the vitality of the popula- 
tion lies between half and two-thirds lower than it 
need to be. 

We ask, as we study this question, is the cause of 
this low vitality peculiar to man, or to manner and 
custom ? Is there in some men, is there in some 
races, an inherent vitality more marked and endurable 
in action than in others ? If there be, there lies 
behind another question ; is this favoured condition 
connected with any particular configuration or con- 
stitution of body, individual or racial ? The answer to 
these questions is essential to our national knowledge. 
I regret however to say, that up to this time it has 



170 VITALITY, INDIVIDUAL AND NATIONAL. 

been so entirely neglected, both by the politician and 
the historian, but few data are before us upon which 
to base any great conclusion. We physicians know 
that there exist in families certain hereditary 
peculiarities which tend to length of life in the in- 
dividuals of that family ; but if we are brought to 
book and are asked what is the nature of those 
peculiarities, we are plunged merely into speculation, 
and are obliged to admit the fact without any dis- 
tinctive attempt to explain it. The most we know is 
of a negative order. We see that persons long-lived, 
and who represent long-lived families, are less dis- 
posed than others to certain fatal diseases ; such, for 
instance, as consumption and cancer. My impression 
once was that this explanation was the key to the 
phenomenon. Further experience and reflection has, 
however, assured me that the explanation is not so 
easy. I have of late years carefully noticed the 
relationship of family longevity, by what may be 
called family individuality ; and the fact I have arrived 
at is, that though individual vitality may run through 
a line of persons connected by blood relationship, it is 
not universal in that series, but belongs only to par- 
ticular members of it, who, by their own personal care 
or good fortune, conserve the vital endowment that has 
descended to them. What is more, I have observed 
that the prolonged vitality shown by individuals is 



VITALITY, INDIVIDUAL AND NATIONAL. 171 

not necessarily connected with any great beauty of 
form or muscular power, or even power of physical 
endurance. It is connected rather with facility of 
constitution to take rest, to accept anxiety with 
serenity, annoyance without passion, and success or 
pleasure without excitement or overweening gratifi- 
cation. 

These individual experiences are, I must admit, 
too limited to be of themselves of great value. If we 
could trace the lives and histories of the 124,808 
persons who, in 1871, were living in this kingdom at 
ages ranging from eighty upwards, we might truly 
arrive at some satisfactory solution of the vital 
question, why they should have reached a term of 
life more than twice longer than the majority of their 
fellow men. 

When we turn from individuals to races, the 
question of vitality is placed on a more magnificent, 
yet hardly less difficult, position for contemplation. So 
far in our scientific history the work of the statistician 
has been limited to the study of very few races. Of 
the five great races, the white, including all the Aryan 
and Caucasian ; the yellow, with its hyperborean, 
Mongolian and Sinaic branches ; the brown, including 
the Ethiopian, Hindoo and Malay branches ; the 
northern and southern red races, and the eastern and 
western black races ; of all these our knowledge is 



172 VITALITY, INDIVIDUAL AND NATIONAL. 

actually confined to those families of the Caucasian 
race which are included under the Teutonic, the Latin 
and the Semitic families ; and that knowledge also is 
necessarily limited in its extent. 

We have, nevertheless, lor our instruction one 
series of remarkable researches collected from the 
official statistics of different countries, which bear on 
the subject of the vitality of that part of the Semitic 
race known as the Jewish, and which compares that 
family vitality with the vitalities of the Teutonic and 
Celtic families amongst which it is cast. As far as I 
am aware, this research stands alone. It is the labour 
of M. Legoyt. In this country it may be said to 
have been, until recently, unknown. 

I have, at great length, on two other occasions, 
described the facts in detail respecting the vitality of 
the Jewish people, as they have been recorded by 
Legoyt, Meyer, and Neufville : but an abstract of them 
may well be repeated in this place. Legoyt explains 
that in Germany there is I Jew to every 105 of the 
population ; in England, I to 446 ; in Austria, I to 
33 ; in Belgium, I to 333 ; in France, I to 468 ; in 
Holland, I to 52; in Ireland, I to 17,910; in Italy, 
i to 412 ; in Poland, I to 7 ; in Russia, I to 42 ; in 
Scandinavia, I to 664; in Switzerland, I to 593; and 
in Turkey, I to 61. The statistics further show that 
the Jews in Prussia increase at a greater rate than the 



VITALITY, INDIVIDUAL AND NATIONAL. 173 

general population, especially in the excess of births 
over deaths. If the race has fewer adults, it has more 
aged people. The return of the two sexes was 103*37 
Jewish women to 100 men, instead of 10072 women 
to 100 men in the general population. The Israelites 
marry less frequently, and have fewer children; but 
they have fewer children stillborn, and fewer deaths 
among those they rear. In the average duration of 
life among the stationary groups of men, there is a 
difference, to the profit of the Israelites, to the extent 
of five years. The Civil State extracts in Prussia 
only impute to them r6i deaths in 100, whilst for 
the whole of the kingdom the mortuary assessment 
is 2-62 in the 100. M. Legoyt attributes these ad- 
vantages on the part of the Jews to their persecutions, 
which have made them more careful of home life and 
more solicitous of their poor, and to their alimentary 
prohibitions which are conducive to hygiene. I believe 
myself that by their exclusion the Jews have hitherto 
escaped, to a considerable extent, from some of the 
more fatal hereditary afflictions of others of the Euro- 
pean societies. In one of the public institutions in 
the eastern part of London, to which I was for many 
years physician, and in which large numbers of poor 
sought assistance for that all but incurable malady, 
consumption, I computed from three hundred patients 
the racial characteristics. They were divided into 



174 VITALITY, INDIVIDUAL AND NATIONAL. 

four classes : those who by race and name were dis- 
tinctly Saxon ; those who were of mixed race, or 
whose race could not be determined ; those who 
were distinctly Celtic ; and those who were distinctly 
Jewish. The results were that of the 300 persons, 
133 were Saxon; 118 were of mixed or undeter- 
minate race, 31 were Celtic, and 18 were Jewish. 
In the relative proportions of the respective popula- 
tions the majority of sufferers was large on the Saxon 
side. 

The above facts collected on the continent of 
Europe have received some confirmation here from 
my own researches. Dr. Asher, the Secretary to the 
Grand Synagogue, was good enough to give me 
copies of the returns of the Jews buried in London 
for three years, the whole number of deaths amounting 
to 2,563, and from these returns I was able to form a 
fairly correct estimate of the relative vitality of the 
Jewish as compared with the general population. 
The returns showed that in children under five years 
the mortality of Jewish children was as forty-four to 
forty-five of the general population ; in persons 
from thirty-five to forty-five as five to eight ; while 
amongst old people, at eighty-five and upwards, 2 Jews 
died to O'8 of the whole population ; showing that 
amongst this strongly vitalised people nearly three of 
them passed four score and five years of life to one of 



VITALITY, INDIVIDUAL AND NATIONAL. 175 

those amongst whom they were cast to live as fellow- 
citizens. 

These, as facts of the present time, are remark- 
able, and are the more deserving of regard because it 
is probable they are not destined to last. For now 
the Jew, with his perfect liberty and vastly increasing 
wealth, is plunging into the sea of luxury, which has 
been so fatal to his hitherto Saxon and Celtic oppressors, 
with the most conspicuous blindness and haste ; so 
that ere long, if he continues his course, he too will bury 
his vital capital in the mire of his material wealth. It 
has not been from any peculiar character of physique 
that the Jew has been able to live and to exhibit such 
tenacity of life ; but it is mainly, though the statement 
may seem a paradox, from the very necessities of his 
persecuted career that he has retained his vital capa- 
city. In a word, he has been forced into soberness of 
life. His home has been made to him, more exclu- 
sively than to freer men, the simple centre of his 
earthly existence. Thus he has been more temperate, 
more chaste, and more attached and considerate to the 
enfeebled, young and old, of that centre ; more careful 
of to-morrow than his Saxon or his Celtic neighbour, 
and more careful of himself, I mean of his own per- 
sonal strength. To Saxon and Celtic eyes he has 
carried these virtues too far ; but thereby he has won 
his way, and has become in the end powerful, because 



176 VITALITY, INDIVIDUAL AND NATIONAL. 

he has conserved the force which the more boastful 
have expended in their passions and in their demon- 
strations of ruling physical prowess. 

It remains to be seen whether the Jewish family, 
tempted now by the allurements of ambition, wealth, 
and power, will escape the contagion of other families 
of men with whom they come in conflict ; or, if con- 
tracting the contagion, they will exhibit the all but 
impossible anomaly of a still persistent higher vitality. 

INFLUENCES MODIFYING VITALITY. 

Too long a chapter to be entered upon now would 
be demanded for the consideration of the various in- 
fluences that are at work in reducing the average 
national vitality from the natural 90 to the un- 
natural limit of 40*88 years. 

Briefly, I may say that these influences divide 
into three classes. 

(a) There is a class which is largely uncontrollable ; 
it includes the great accidents of nature, together 
with certain other great ordinances which are per- 
sistent in nature, and, as it would seem, are so es- 
sential to natural designs that they rank as absolute 
recurring phenomena. 

The variations of seasons, the fluctuations of atmo- 
spheric pressure and temperature, and the variations 
of electrical tension, come under this head. These 



VITALITY, INDIVIDUAL AND NATIONAL. 177 

affect all indiscriminately, and furnish even a calcu- 
lable mortality. They are irremovable influences, 
from which we may protect our lives, and which in 
some instances, as in the case of the lightning flash, 
we may divert, but which must ever remain in action. 

(b) There is a class of influences which is largely 
controllable, but which produces as yet also a calcu- 
lable mortality. These influences are of the nature 
of floating poisons which pass from man to man, and 
even from the inferior animal to man. They are 
already to some extent brought under the governance 
of science, and I believe will be ultimately suppressed 
by the vigilant learning and art of a profession which 
will never rest until it has shielded the world from 
these attacks on its vitality. 

(c) Lastly, there is a class of influences which 
spring from individual causes of error, and which of 
all others are most potent for evil. They depend on 
errors in the individual life which, multiplied by imi- 
tation and training, become the self-inflicted wounds 
of the nations. These, after all, are the chief sources 
of reduction of vitality to the low figure at which it 
stands, of the vital capacity of our most civilised com- 
munities. In their presence the art of the physician 
is powerless : it may help to keep the processes of life, 
even when fatally impaired, a little longer in motion ; 



178 VITALITY, INDIVIDUAL AND NATIONAL. 

but in this minor effort it often fails, and beyond it 
it never passes. 

Gathering the facts on this subject from my own 
observation and experience, I should place these 
influences against vitality in the following order. 

Alcoholic intemperance holds, I believe, the first 
place in this series of fatal agencies. It kills in the 
present, it impairs the vital powers in the succeeding 
generations. I do not over-estimate the facts when I 
say that if such a miracle could be performed in this 
England of ours as a conversion to temperance, the 
vitality of the nation would rise one-third in its value, 
and this without reference to the indirect advantages 
that would of necessity follow. I mean in such 
trifling matters, by comparison with the greater re- 
form, as the suppression of deeds of violence, of 
injuries arising from neglect of the enfeebled and 
of exposure to want. 

Next to alcoholic intemperance, I should place as 
a cause of impaired vitality in our people the race for 
wealth, the physical and mental strain to which 
the younger members of our communities are sub- 
jecting themselves that they may stand first in the 
ranks, and, at middle age, retire to wither rapidly in 
empty competency, so called. This rage, amounting 
to insanity, is checked by nature at every step. Her 
offspring are not made for this design. They are, 



VITALITY, INDIVIDUAL AND NATIONAL. 179 

truly, endowed with free will to follow their own 
course ; but they are not constructed for the indiscri- 
minate gratification of free will. To work moderately 
until the end of the cycle of life is the plan pre- 
arranged for us all ; the condition under which we 
are born, that we may live until the cycle is perfected. 
If we break through this condition, if we destroy 
one organ only of the exquisitely balanced economy 
through which our vital faculties are construed into 
life, we simply die. 

Another influence at work to injure vital action 
lies often in a supposed attempt to improve it. I 
refer to the system peculiar to the Saxon popula- 
tions of over-training the body to the endurance 
of fatigue, and the assumed development of great 
physical power. In this respect we carry with us 
still the hereditary impressions of the ages when there 
was no motive force save that of the animal kingdom, 
and of admiration for great physical attainment and 
capacity for mere animal feats of killing labour. 

When upon such feats the uncivilised had to 
depend, the admiration was warranted by the neces- 
sity it represented ; for then it was a virtue even to 
die for necessity. Now the virtue is no more, and 
the admiration over-rated is altogether misconceived. 
There is no sign, there is no evidence anywhere that 
the excessive culture of physical strength has favoured 



i8o VITALITY, INDIVIDUAL AND NATIONAL. 

the vitality either of the individual or of the race. 
The evidence lies all the other way. 

The effect of marriages made without reference to 
the constitutional condition of the married is a fruitful 
source of depraved vitality. As already stated, it is 
a mistake to suppose that the error now named is 
due to the mere matter of consanguinity. If the 
parents of a child be equally vitalised, their offspring 
will be like them. If one parent be of impaired life 
the offspring will be impaired ; but it is when both 
parents are equally impaired that the danger to the 
offspring rises to its extreme degree. From such 
marriages spring those terribly calamitous issues in 
which the premature ending is as certain as is the 
beginning of life. 

Another influence at work as an influence destruc- 
tive of vitality is the force of the passions. A long 
chapter lies before me here if I could read it out. 
Suffice it now to say that the passions which most 
destroy, which grow by what they feed on, and in 
which the strongest cannot afford to indulge, are 
anger, hatred, grief, and fear. 

It will be noticed, perhaps with surprise, that in 
all these influences that take from the vitality of the 
nation, poverty has received no notice, neither has 
luxury. In fact they come last by natural order : for 
poverty, when it is separated from the other influences 



VITALITY, INDIVIDUAL AND NATIONAL. 181 

of which I have spoken, and is confined to the mere 
honest existence, when it means simply frugality, 
tends to length of vital action : and luxury, when it 
is untouched by the evils I have described, and rests 
mainly on ease of mind and body, is no actual 
destroyer, though it lags behind frugality as a nega- 
tive ever lags behind a positive virtue. 

The nations that have been comparatively poor 
and contented, the nations that have been compara- 
tively wealthy and inactive, have throughout all 
history shown the highest vitality. The rule descends 
to families, to individuals : perhaps in nature it is 
absolute. 

The last great influence against vitality is the 
excessive balance of muscular or physical, as against 
pure and refined mental work. Mr. Brudenell Carter, 
in a very able lecture, has touched once on this point 
with singular force. I re-echo what he has said with 
all my heart. 

The lost vitality lies in all countries with the 
slaving masses of the people, in whom the nervous 
organism on which so much depends for life is un- 
developed, or is developed only to the mere extent 
of its automatic life. Can we wonder at this ? Con- 
sider the condition of the industrial unit, and extend 
the unit to the mass, to the five millions of the in- 
dustrial workers and to those who depend on them. 



iS2 VITALITY, INDIVIDUAL AND NATIONAL. 

The necessity of having to work in masses, in the 
same building, at the same monotonous ever-repeating 
labour, in which the muscles are moving with auto- 
matic regularity, and the brain is left unemployed 
except to brood over real or imaginary injuries ; these 
conditions affect life to the core, and exert a fitting 
effect on the vital value of the working class. The 
agricultural labourer may work hard, may fare badly, 
may be housed shamefully, but he has many advan- 
tages. He is engaged out-of-doors in the fresh 
air; he has all the beauties of external nature to 
delight and refresh him. His work is varied. There 
is the spring-tide season, with its sheep-washing and 
shearing ; the summer, with its hay-time ; the autumn, 
with its harvest ; the other months of ploughing and 
sowing, a constant roundelay of work, with varied 
change for the mind as well as the body. The 
artisan has no such pleasures of industry. He passes 
day by day, month by month, year by year, through 
the same monotonous labour, until at last his mind 
recognises but one scene ; his hands fall to but one 
automatic routine. To the end of his career he sees 
no change, nor chance of being made independent 
by his skill and his industry. He, therefore, is 
naturally apt to become fretful, anxious, irritable, the 
victim of smouldering passions, which wear out his 
heart, and lessen his nervous resistance to the many 



VITALITY, INDIVIDUAL AND NATIONAL. 183 

external shocks to which he is daily subjected. 
Moreover, the limitation of his means leads to limita- 
tions in the necessary comforts of his home. He 
who is in these straits is rather to be pitied than 
blamed, if, in false measure of the deed, he seeks, 
ignorantly, still more sorrow in alcoholic indulgence. 
When we add together these difficulties of existence, 
the struggle against penury and actual want, the 
confined dwelling-room, the badly-ventilated, over- 
stocked bedroom, the indifferent couch, the limited 
sleep, the ever-returning toil, and the rarity of whole- 
some relaxation, either of mind or body ; when, I 
say, we contemplate these conditions, we have before 
us evidence of vital strain which practically is resisted 
longer than we could, at first sight, imagine to be 
compatible with human endurance. 

Dr. George M. Beard, of New York, in an 
admirable essay on the longevity of brain-workers, 
thus felicitously condenses the conditions I have 
glanced at under this head : " Almost all muscle- 
workers," he says, " are born to live and die poor. To 
live on the slippery path that lies between extreme 
poverty on one side and the gulf of starvation on 
the other ; to take continual thought of to-morrow, 
ivithout any good result of such thought; to feel 
each anxious hour that the dreary tread-mill by 
which we secure the means of sustenance for a hungry 



184 VITALITY, INDIVIDUAL AND NATIONAL. 

household, may, without warning, be closed by any 
number of forces over which one has no control ; to 
double and triple all the horrors of want and pain by 
anticipation and rumination, such is the life of the 
muscle-working classes of modern civilised society ; 
and when we add to this the cankering annoyance to 
the workman that arises from the envying of the 
fortunate brain-worker who lives in ease before his 
eyes, we marvel not that he dies young, but rather 
that he lives at all." 

Compare this description and the figures of 
reduced vitality, which show vitality reduced to a full 
third of its value, with the observations of the same 
learned author on the longevity of brain-workers, and 
the contrast is profoundly instructive. 

"I have ascertained," says Dr. Beard, "the lon- 
gevity of 500 of the greatest men in history. The 
list includes a large proportion of the most eminent 
names in all the departments of thought and activity. 

" The average age of these was 64*20 years." 

Madden also gives a list of 240 similar illustrious 
hard mental workers, and calculates from them an 
average age of 66 years. 

There is no such record to be found elsewhere, 
and the facts indicate more determinately than aught 
I know the importance of societies which encourage 
the extension of the domain of mind ; which try to 



VITALITY, INDIVIDUAL AND NATIONAL. 185 

chase away the gross beginnings of human life into 
the darkness of the past ; and which strive to project 
a future individual life for mankind that shall be 
worthily a longer, because it shall a purer, and, in the 
most honest sense of the term, a holier life. 



VI. 

THE WORLD OF PHYSIC. 

A DECISION of the Council of the St. Andrews 
*^ Medical Graduates' Association, that members 
should invite friends, ladies and gentlemen, to the 
Annual Address, has imposed on me a duty difficult 
as novel. Speaking in the name of a body of scholars 
in physic who are striving to hold an advanced posi- 
tion in their day and generation, I am excluded from 
dealing with any one of those refined subjects in 
practical medical science, which could give scope for 
possible display of the learning of the profession in its 
own particular walk, but which could not, at the same 
time, be made of interest to a general assembly. I 
have tried to meet the difficulty by selecting a subject 
that shall be common to all scholars and all interests ; 
I mean, the mutual relationships of the communion of 
physic and the community at large ; ' The World of 
Physic and the World: 

Did you ever, Ladies and Gentlemen, let your 



THE WORLD OF PHYSIC. 187 

minds have range so as to take in, in one grasp of 
view, the world of physic as an isolation from other 
worlds of life on this planet ? Have you thought of 
it distinctively, as you have of the nations of the 
earth, the languages, the races ? Perchance you have 
not ; and if you have not, then may the picture be 
worthy your regard, even though, with indifferent 
pencil, it be put before you and in bare outline. 

We then, who, according to our several gifts, 
minister to the physical ills of mankind, form, the 
world over, an effective strength of probably one 
million of men, and, excluding the significant old 
ones of both sexes, say forty women. In every 
second of the passing time a detachment of from ten 
to fifteen of us is ministering to the sick. Each 
minute brings one of us at least in, or near, the 
presence of death. Each minute brings one of us, at 
least, in presence of the first breath of the living 
temple ; making us the eye-witnesses of the natural 
fact so immortally expressed, that in the grand 
scheme of Creation, ' death has no sting, the grave no 
victory/ In the midst of these first and last pheno- 
mena of human existence, we live, conversant also at 
other times with endless changes of pain and pleasure, 
sorrow and happiness, strength and weakness, lying 
between the first and last. 

As we are represented in English and Welsh life, 



1 88 THE WORLD OF PHYSIC. 

a fair representation, I think, of a general kind, there 
are nine of us, on the average, equipped and ready for 
the service of ten thousand living people, of whom 
four hundred and forty-four are constantly sick, and 
of whom two hundred and twenty-two die in the 
year. Each member of the world of physic has there- 
fore an average of forty-seven claimants for his skill 
constantly on hand, i.e. nearly two every hour, on the 
average of time, by night and by day. 

Our million, as the result of this persistency and 
necessity of action, knows little rest; and as men, 
like all things else of the earth subjected to motion, 
exist a longer or a shorter time according to wear 
and tear, so we, of all sections of the living human 
world who are above manual labour, and indeed of 
the community at large, up to fifty-five years of age, 
present the shortest of existences, in the forms by 
which, during our ephemera, we are known and re- 
cognised. At twenty-five years of age, we die at the 
rate of nearly five to four of the general community ; 
at forty-five, as two to one and four-fifths ; then, in- 
deed, those who can live through so much, hold good 
their ground, and, at fifty-five, are a shade better off 
than the average, at sixty-five, a shade worse, and 
after that again better. 

From the certain average destiny that is before 
our million, and from its close converse at all times 



THE WORLD OF PHYSIC. 189 

with extremes of anxiety, it might be inferred that 
our life is one of gloom. It is not so. As men, in 
the face of positive danger, become, even against their 
natures, brave, by a process of reasoning peculiar to 
the occasion, and extorted from them by virtue of 
necessity, so medical men, in the actual presence of 
the most serious evils, as evils are commonly under- 
stood, become, if the term be not a paradox, impla- 
cably resigned to anxiety, and live in it apart from 
it, save as all men live in it when it comes to 
them, or theirs, individually. This adaptation of the 
mind to the absolute necessity of time and circum- 
stance is, in the case of the representatives of the 
world of physic, an inestimable blessing to all. The 
mind, too anxious about results, the hand, too tender 
for action, the voice, too hesitant to suggest or to 
command, is not the mind, the hand, the voice, to be 
trusted when the issues of life or of death stand in 
array. So our mistress Nature ordains, not by the 
bending of her laws to us, but by the bending of us 
to her laws, that we shall be, as we are, men who are 
common sharers with other men in joy and in sorrow. 
Men, who live in the presence of more sorrow than 
the rest of the world, but who, by hourly converse 
with that sorrow, are mentally lifted from it. Men, 
who know, scientifically, how best to remove or ap- 
pease sorrow, and who are ready ever to accept this 



IQO THE WORLD OF PHYSIC. 

task as a part of their daily duty, by virtue of an 
acquired nature which is in them, but not originally 
of them, and which, being acquired, facilitates the 
exercise of the duties by which they are made use- 
ful to the world, and to themselves as a part of the 
world. 

The million of physic, as to its origin, is, and 
always has been, and probably always will be, from 
the class of mankind, middle in station. The rich 
and ennobled can never be sufficiently numerous to 
yield the million demanded. The poor can never find 
the means to educate the million. It is true that in 
this country a noble duke, a Duke of Richmond, 
once stood on the roll of the Royal College of Physi- 
cians, and it is equally true that a carpenter, John 
Hunter, came from the work-bench to bring the Royal 
College of Surgeons into fame, and himself into un- 
spoken, because unspeakable, honour. But these are 
grand exceptions, almost alone even in England, else- 
where equally unknown. Here again Nature bends 
humanity to her law. It is essential that men whose 
daily duties extend alike to all, to the monarch, or pre- 
sident of the State, as to the lowest of the low, should 
be accessible to all, and by mind, by heart, by will, 
the helpmates of all ; and our million represents, in 
this sense, more distinctly than any other living world, 
the common brotherhood of the world. To us, in our 



THE WORLD OF PHYSIC. 191 

actual vocation, in our dealing with abstract man, 
blood is blood, muscle is muscle, nerve is nerve, brain 
is brain, eye is eye, tooth is tooth, pain is pain, ex- 
haustion is exhaustion, apart from all the other con- 
siderations by which other men, or by which we 
ourselves out of our special vocation, exalt or degrade 
the human social life. In moments of exalted ambi- 
tion we may lament our lot, but we must bow to it as 
to the inevitable, and, in moments of solemn thought, 
we must accept it as blessed. So is it received, indeed, 
by the world. The peasant rests upon it, feeling, that 
in the hands of the faithful healer, he is as safe as the 
king. The proudest, the most absolute of rulers, a 
ruler of many rulers, trusting in it, begs his physician 
to treat the sharer of his crown even as he would 
treat the simplest of his subjects. While Christendom, 
speaking by the mouths of its holiest of the holy, 
loves, as if in the most carefully chosen and expressive 
words, to illustrate the character of its Divine Founder 
by his deeds as the Physician. 

From the very universality of the working life of 
our world of physic its power is indefinite, better, 
perhaps, say indefinable. The power of the priest is 
not ours ; the power of the lawgiver is not ours ; the 
power of the soldier is not ours. We have never in 
our history, as a class, been connected with national 
revolutions, national conquests, national crises of any 



192 THE WORLD OF PHYSIC. 

kind, for good or for evil. Esculapius, according to the 
ancient way of expressing his greatness, was received 
into the number of the gods, simply because he cul- 
tivated the art of physic with a little more subtlety 
than his fellows. And William Harvey, the nearest 
personal friend, as the physician, of any crowned king, 
left no more powerful nor any lesser work than the 
discovery of the circulation of the blood. 

And yet, negative though we appear to have been, 
and appear to be, we have at all times, and in all 
countries, exerted a veiled influence, which, like 
all great natural forces, has been the more potent 
because it has not been ostentatiously exposed to 
public view. When great catastrophes of disease 
have shaken the hearts of men, the world of physic 
has ever been at hand, a firm and reliable power, keen 
to investigate, bold to intervene, and, by natural con- 
tempt of danger, qualified to sustain hope and prevent 
the panic of despair. In our daily routine it is a part 
of our accepted duty to upraise the downcast ; while 
we hold up to the world, by the constant strain of our 
efforts and ambition to improve our science in all its 
parts, the indisputable proof that we are prepared, to 
any extent, to lessen the necessity which calls us into 
existence, and brings into our hands the labour on 
which we depend for our daily bread. Thus, the world 
of physic is in many ways a direct power ; a power 



THE WORLD OF PHYSIC. 193 

silent but sure ; a passive power, inoffensive yet pro- 
pulsive ; acting solely by its units, yet strong because 
its units, a million times multiplied, have a common 
intention and will. 

To this direct power of the world of physic, past 
and present, a power honestly claimed by every 
honest member of that world, may be added certain 
indirect influences which have not been without their 
value. Medicine has, at all times, produced men who 
have cultivated pure physical science with an energy 
and perseverance shown by no other special class of 
mankind. Our Kepler laid the first steps in the 
study of vision, and with these, the first steps in 
optics as a part of physical science. Our Mahow 
first suggested the compound character of the air, and 
the existence in it of a something that sustained the 
combustion of flame, and the combustion of the living 
body. Our Boerhaave excited a taste for chemistry 
and gave a character to that science, which since his 
day has never declined. Our Black determined the 
product of burning carbon, and showed that product 
as exhaled from the ordinary furnace and the living 
lung. Our Young propounded the now accepted 
theory of light as undulation. Our Hunter remodelled 
the study of natural history, and laid the foundation 
of that study of the history of nature, past and present, 
to which Cuvier, who in exile practised surgery, de- 



194 THE WORLD OF PHYSIC. 

voted his best life, and which the still living master, 
Owen, also of the same profession, has so splendidly 
advanced. Our Hartley expounded the fact of the 
communication of motion in vibrations, from the 
outer universe into the animal body. Our Locke made 
logic a true science, and gave meaning to the study of 
the human understanding itself. Our Erasmus Darwin 
wrote the earliest accurate readings of the living rela 
tionships between plants and animals, and bequeathed 
the study which his great descendant and namesake, 
who is still with us and of us, has so marvellously 
elaborated. Our Linnaeus and De Candolle vie with 
each other as founders of that philosophical study and 
classification of plants, which our distinguished Hooker, 
with a zeal worthy of his masters, in this day maintains. 
Our Metcalfe, with labour of learning not often seen, 
was amongst the first who introduced the theory of 
the unity of force in nature. Our Haller conferred 
precision and breadth of expression on the literature 
of science ; and our Goldsmith introduced into works 
of fiction a purity, beauty, and chasteness which, before 
his time, were unknown. Our Mungo Park was the 
traveller who made the first decided progress in dis- 
covering the interior of Africa and the sources of the 
Nile ; and our noble Livingstone, completed what 
his less fortunate brother, at the sacrifice of his life, 
left unachieved. 



THE WORLD OF PHYSIC. 195 

In naming these simple matters of history, shall I 
say too much if I claim, that in the advance of the 
physical sciences, the world of physic has taken, and 
sustained, a pre-eminence which those who have 
made pure physics their sole study, have not sur- 
passed. 

If we turn from physical to social science, we find 
again, in the world of physic, the same pervading 
influence. The teaching of the deaf and dumb and 
blind to hold converse with their more fortunate 
fellows, has been the work of our zealous progression- 
ists. The foundations of sanitary science were laid 
by Ramazzini, Arbuthnot, Pringle, Jenner, and their 
followers at home and abroad. From the galled 
limbs of the insane the iron fetters were boldly and 
for ever struck off by one of our brethren, Gardiner 
Hill ; while, by the labours of Conolly, the humane 
management of the insane was not only consolidated, 
but the whole subject was reduced to an order, sim- 
plicity, and advancement, which contemporary narra- 
tive has still failed to reveal in all its meaning, 
plenitude and beneficence. 

Connected with this same subject, the world of 
physic, in silent measure, is increasingly labouring 
to discover the intimate relationship of crime and 
disease, the end of which work must be to demon- 
state to the legislator that the absolute theory of 



196 THE WORLD OF PHYSIC. 

punishment, as the one and universal remedy for 
crime, is equivalent to crime itself in folly and in 
evil; and that the major part of the miserables 
who occupy the felon's dock or cell are specimens 
of mentally deformed humanity, to save whom, 
or the similar of them, from disfiguring another 
age, we must go back to the principles of their 
growth, training, development, and cast improvement 
there. 

Lastly, in its estimates of life, of life as a some- 
thing that may be calculated upon, even in the money 
market, insured upon and realised, as of so much gross 
earthly value, changing in value according to habit, 
condition, descent, labour, and of the comparative life 
values of professions and trades, of sexes, of towns, 
counties, nations, our medical world has produced 
learning which has no rival. One man of the medical 
world, has, in this direction, invented a science, the 
ultimate value of which cannot be foreseen, it is so 
wonderful. You have anticipated me when I name 
Dr. William Farr. 

The learning of the world of physic, its own learn- 
ing, is, at first sight, singularly irregular and diverse. 
In this advanced Europe, in America, and in the other 
civilised nations, the physician is, one might think, 
another order of mortal, when compared with his 
brother of the far east, untutored and rudely skilled. 



THE WORLD OF PHYSIC. 197 

In this civilised land, see the learned professional 
what aids he calls ? He enters the chemical laboratory, 
and brings forth potent agents with which he moves 
the living organism almost as he pleases, now putting 
it into dead slumber and perfect rest, anon increasing 
its muscular action till the will is made subservient 
to the stronger power. He subjects the body to ex- 
treme of heat ; he freezes parts of it until the structure 
is like stone. If he lists, he puts his ear to the body 
and hears its mechanical throbbings and breathings, 
and reduces what he hears to such perfect rule that 
he can calculate on changes of structure and function, as 
distinctly, almost, as if he could see the hidden work- 
ings. If he lists, he takes up his reflecting glass, peers 
straight into the eye and other parts of the organism, 
and observes the changes of structure and function 
with exactitude. If he lists, he takes out his delicate 
thermometer, and measuring the animal force, de- 
termines, with refined nicety, the balance of overaction 
or reduced action. If he lists, he counts the pulsation 
of the body with a stop watch, or weighs the pulse, I 
may say, with his sphygmographic scale, and makes 
it write for him its own history, black upon white, or 
white upon black. He takes out of the body a speck 
of its blood or other structure, and, with delicate lens, 
reads off the history of great physical changes going 
on in the whole or part of the body, and, it may be, 



193 THE WORLD OF PHYSIC. 

forecasts results with true discernment In short, he 
gathers such absolute information respecting the body 
and its conditions, that if he were master to rule, as 
he is to observe, its phenomena, he were master of 
all that man could achieve in physic, and would be 
already that perfect animal engineer he one day must 
become. 

In uncivilised, or partly civilised, Thibet, see, on 
the other hand, the so-styled learned physician, and 
the aids he calls. In the month of September, when 
the day breaks over his magnificent mountains, watch 
this man leaving his Lamasery to collect his remedies. 
A leathern bag and a tea-kettle carry all his wants. 
Armed with a pointed iron-capped staff and hook, like 
a Druid of our own old time, he marches forth with 
his train of pupils, and roaming the mountains, picks 
out of the laboratory of Nature his medicinal stores, 
from branch, from shrub, from root. With the de- 
clining sun he returns, laden with his spoils, next day 
culls them, dries them in the air, packs them, labels 
them, stores them in some safe garner of the quiet 
Lamasery, and, in his honest soul, believes that the 
wealth of the whole medical world is in his safe 
.keeping. Called to the couch of the sick or the 
dying, he is content to hear of pain, to read off si 
of oppression, and, striking his fingers across the pulse 
of each wrist, as a musician doth- the strings of his 



THE WORLD OF PHYSIC. 199 

instrument, he is satisfied The phenomena he sees 
are with him easily understood ; they are the assaults 
of a demon who must be expelled. So many diseases, 
so many demons, and, let it not be doubted, so many 
remedies. From the wonderful pouch by the side 
of that physician, come forth those dried plants he 
gathered on the mountain side, and down the throat 
of the afflicted certain of them go, in nauseous powder. 
Or, should the remedy not be in the pouch, this 
wonderful Lama physician, with more than homoeo- 
pathic skill, writes the name of the remedy on a 
scrap of paper, moistens the paper with his lips, rolls 
it into a pill, and administers it to the faithful, who, 
straightway swallowing, with the earnest belief that 
the name is as good as the thing when it comes 
through proper hands, believes and lives, or believes 
and dies, as the case may be. 

But before the last event shall happen, be the 
patient rich enough to bear the operation, our good 
Lama has one or two other resources at hand, be- 
longing to the imaginative, which resources are bold, 
and, in proportion as they are bold, effective. By 
that most convenient of theories, that every disease 
is a demon within the man, the good Lama has a 
power to which we civilised have no claim. Between 
the actual existence of a thing, and form faith in that 
existence, whether it be or not, the gulf is narrow in 



200 THE WORLD OF PHYSIC. 

all minds, absent in most ; and so, the Tartar patient 
is, to his physician, as good as a man who should 
have veritably of veritably a demon within him. Well, 
I put to you here, to all, what would you wish for 
most if you believed as firmly that you had a demon 
in your tooth, making it ache, as that you had a tooth 
to be made to ache ? I suspect you would like to 
have that demon cleared out. Further, if you were a 
Lama physician, and knew the quality of the demon, 
and his best mode of exit, you would, I think, attempt 
to remove him. Our Lama sympathises. He says 
to his patient, ' I can get rid of this demon by certain 
magical prayers, but you, being a wealthy man, are 
afflicted with a very proud demon, in fact, quite a 
swell demon, and he will not go away unless you find 
him a thorough good horse to carry him off/ And 
so the horse is brought out, properly accoutred, the 
prayers are recited, and then, the demon getting 
inside the horse, and the physician outside, they 
go away together, and unless the demon leaves 
the horse, or the physician disposes of both, demon 
and physician remain as intimate as is proper 
so long as the horse lives. Where the demon goes 
afterwards I cannot say; I suppose to his native 
place. 

In our world of physic, the Lama and the civilised 
physician are at the antipodes of science, for which 



THE WORLD OF PHYSIC. 201 

reason I have put them in contrast, leaving you to 
fill up the intervening castes if you like the labour. 1 

The diversities of the learning of the world of 
physic, great as they are on many subjects, do not 
separate it as a body. Skilled or rude, its represen- 
tatives, by virtue of their daily work, have many 
qualities, and ripened faculties, in common. Brought 
into close converse and intimate communion with living 
humanity at the times when it is feeblest and most 
distressed, the physician sees, as in a mirror, the back 
as well as the front of human nature, and, instinctively, 
recognises its shape and character with an imposed 
accuracy of observation, to himself often extremely 
painful. The inner life, the relation of the soul to the 
body : the vehement will, built on the powerful heart : 
the vehement will, succumbing under the breakdown 
of the heart once powerful : the brain, nobly balanced 
in structure and in function : the brain unbalanced : 
the criminal, by nature criminal, strong in untruth, 
vaulting even into temptation, proud of his own sel- 
fishness, dishonest by intent : the virtuous, by nature 
virtuous, born virtuous, constructed on physical mould 
of virtue, steadfast in all trials, generous in all con- 
flicts, patient in all afflictions, truthful in all tempta- 

1 See, in relation to this description of the Lama Physician, the 
fascinating book, Travels in Tartary, Thibet, and China, by M. Hue, 
translated by W. Hazlitt. 



202 THE WORLD OF PHYSIC. 

tions, honest in all emergencies : the body and soul 
together balanced, well or ill : the body exceeding 
the soul, the soul exceeding the body. All these 
conditions come before the physician, and, nolens 
volens, must be read. 

The world at large, busied with other concerns, 
and not understanding this forced study of the world 
of medicine, often criticises medical men for giving 
opinions respecting the mental conditions, particularly 
of criminals, contrary to the opinions which revenge, 
unmoderated by knowledge, insensibly inspires. I 
picture before me a powerful man, for years the es 
teemed of the most estimable. What of him ? His 
abashed friends tell me he has sinned. I see him, 
and his broken intermitting useless heart proclaims to 
me an irresponsible being clothed still in all the ap- 
parent majesty of reason. I know his brain is like a 
flickering gas-light when the pressure is unequal at 
the main. Conscious of his own helplessness, un- 
certain, shrinking from himself and the world, what 
wonder that the man, in brief time, should be dis- 
covered a suicide ? I wonder not. Still, for me to 
say that that man was irresponsible were to subject 
myself to the ridicule of the majority of mankind. 

I have put a common experience, and because it 
is necessary, I have tried to put it forcibly from nature. 
All the judges on the bench could not, by all the 



THE WORLD OP PHYSIC. 203 

legal knowledge in every book of law. understand 
correctly a case of this kind. That man, brought 
when he sinned, before a judge, would probably have 
received a moral discourse on the iniquity of crime, 
as well as sentence to punishment for offence against 
the State. Learned judge, exalted above thy fellows, 
and mostly wise, but now mocking a law above thine 
own, thou wert as well occupied in lecturing a rabid 
dog on the sin of biting, or in punishing a cobra di 
capello for the crime of carrying deadly poison ! 

It is the forced reading of the inner life, of the 
mutual dependencies of the soul and body, of the 
phenomena of outward action in man as dependent 
on inward function, and of formed character, as based 
on organic construction, that makes medical men 
appear to the world so special in their views in favour 
of mercy and against extreme of punishment. On these 
points, the members of the profession are not weaker, 
nor better, nor more generous than the rest of the 
world. They are, simply, better informed ; a good 
century in advance of the world at the present rate 
of education ; so advanced, indeed, that it is hardly 
possible to announce what they know, lest it seem 
extravagant and dangerous. But their knowledge 
charges them, irresistibly, with mercy. As they 
cannot, if they would, be angry with a man whose 
muscles are paralysed, because he declines to take up 



204 THE WORLD OF PHYSIC. 

his bed and walk ; neither can they be vindictive in 
regard to a man whose brain, physically unbalanced, is 
led to do that which, by the abstract standard of right 
and wrong, is wrong. We take a pigeon : we freeze 
a segment of its brain, and straightway, from destruc- 
tion of balance of power, the creature begins to walk 
backwards, turn summersaults, and do other strange 
things. Shall we be angry with the bird because it 
presents phenomena which are not, according to our 
views, natural ? In brief, the world of medicine sees 
the phenomena of human action, in form and cha- 
racter, even as it sees the human body, itself a mere 
phenomenon. It beholds the mental form every day, 
as though in a stereoscope, solid, defined : it may 
have aversions to what it sees, or likings ; but it can- 
not, in face of reason, anathematise or praise, as if the 
objects seen were deformed or beautiful according to 
their own sovereignty over themselves. 

These views lead the world, in general, to recog- 
nise what it calls the active sympathy and benevolence 
of the world medical. The truth spoken, this is an 
error. Medical men are neither more sympathetic, 
nor more benevolent, than the rest of mankind : the 
qualities, so recognised, are the results of a better 
knowledge of the strength and weakness of the animal 
organism, and of the dependence of mental manifesta- 
tions on corporeal health. 



THE WORLD OF PHYSIC. 205 

Such, in poor sketch, is the world of medicine. A 
world of a million, dying earlier in life than the other 
millions : a million living in daily converse with pain 
and sorrow, yet not sorrowful : a middle-class million, 
stretching out its hands to work for lowliest or highest 
born: a million, having little direct power in the 
nation, yet giving birth to new action which becomes, 
by development, powerful, and inspires nobility of 
thought and life : a million, differently and diversely 
learned : a million, having, by necessity of daily 
practice, the deepest of insights into the inner life : a 
million, brought to the love of mercy by the bare 
knowledge of the weakness of mankind which calls 
for mercy. 

THE WORLD AT LARGE AND THE WORLD OF 
PHYSIC. 

The relationships of the world at large with the 
world of physic are, on the whole, good. Three 
things I notice specially on this head. Firstly, that in 
its distresses the world at large never fails to run to 
the world of physic. Secondly, that by its returns for 
services rendered the general world keeps the physic 
world fairly provided for. Thirdly, that although the 
general world does not pay to the world of physic any 
enthusiastic admiration, it pays, usually, sincere respect, 

10 



206 THE WORLD OP PHYSIC. 

which is, after all, probably, the safest reward. These 
foundations are sound and satisfactory : but there 
are, nevertheless, certain differences between the 
two worlds, which it were well, if possible, to re- 
move, and which it cannot but be useful candidly to 
consider. 

The great, perhaps I should say the one, serious 
difference is, that the world at large holds the practical 
knowledge of physic to be uncertain and limited. 
Hence, in its dire distress, the world at large is wont 
to make little distinction between the most conscien- 
tious and learned of practitioners, and the meanest of 
pretenders in medicine : hence it supports and sustains 
what we call quackeries, respecting which act we, wisely 
or unwisely, are keenly sensitive. On both sides there 
is error. There is error on the part of the world at 
large, in that it expects more of us than, in the time 
allotted to human learning, we can acquire and bring 
into practice ; there is error in that it does not, by 
learning for itself something about the laws of life, be- 
come conversant with the characteristics of the con- 
scientious physician as distinct from those of the char- 
latan ; and there is error in that it does not distinguish 
between positive knowledge and mere opinion or 
dogma. There is error again, on the part of the world 
of physic, in that it does not look firmly enough into 
the causes of its own weakness ; does not sufficiently 



THE WORLD OF PHYSIC. 207 

take into account the natural fears and feelings of 
mankind ; does not sufficiently strive to make the 
world partakers with it in its knowledge, in its weak- 
ness, in its power ; but rather bends to the prejudices 
of the world than attempts to remove them by de- 
monstration of their mischief and of its own unwaver- 
ing, however slow, progress towards what is right. 

What mutual understandings, then, should subsist 
between the world of physic and the world ? 

The man representing the world at large should, I 
think, first consider what, in the fullest sense, he can 
expect the man of physic to perform for him, and how 
far Nature herself ordains that the success of the man 
of physic shall be permitted. In this sense he, the 
man of the world, should make the utmost allowance 
for the tremendous odds which the medical man has 
to contend with, by reason of the inevitable law of 
Nature, that the continuance of life is based on the 
continuance of death. If we save the life of an indi- 
vidual never so many times, a time will come when 
we shall be utterly unable to save that life. So art 
at last must fail. Or, to proceed to more general 
propositions. So inexorable is Nature in maintaining 
the balance of life and death, that she sometimes 
strikes down portions of mankind wholesale, by causes 
which she does not give us time to study, until the 



2o8 THE WORLD OF PHYSIC. 

event has swept by us : she apportions mortalities to 
seasons, and diseases to races : she puts on earth, for 
her own purposes, beings so differently constituted 
that they defy the application of any one absolute 
rule of treatment : she stamps character and build by 
hereditary transmission, and brings us face to face 
with special differences which we cannot possibly 
control. These rules, set by Nature herself, enforce 
limitations on the skill of the physician which are 
primary, and should be at once conceded as inevitable. 
Physicians would be gods should they be other than 
they are, units of Nature, contending with Nature 
altogether, contending always, often losing, and never 
winning actually, but sometimes seeming to win when 
to win is in accord with the great argument of natural 
necessity. 

The representative of the world at large should 
remember, again, that the man of physic, having in 
all cases to deal with free will in man, must needs be 
perpetually crossed in his finest knowledge by the 
fruits of free will. If we could raise the dead, there 
are men who, so raised, would die again as quickly as 
they could. We do not as yet raise the dead, but it 
is our constant duty to put men into such mode of 
life that they shall be raised from the misery of sick- 
ness into comparative health and comfort; after 
which we find, as constantly, they go back against 



THE WORLD OF PHYSIC. 209 

their reason to their old ways, and are the same as 
ever. I think I may say it for all my learned 
brethren, present and to come, that there is not the 
remotest expectation this difficulty will ever be re- 
moved : for, turning to our own selves, we find that 
we, by example of free will, are the most determined 
specimens of it. We are retail and wholesale specimens 
at one and the same time : by force of habit, we run 
into special dangers from which other men instinctively 
shrink ; and, although we are conscious of practising 
a profession which will make us have the shortest life 
value of the community, we stick to it as if it were 
the elixir vitse itself, and something more. 

A man is not engaged in the practice of medicine 
one twelvemonth before he learns the fact of this 
resistance of free will. Some medical men grow 
hopeless thenceforth, and follow their art, feeling that, 
whatever they do, it is so much the same, that if they 
only use the knowledge they have gained it is as good 
as any new knowledge, and that for them to endeavour 
to discover new truths were indeed a task pitiably 
bootless. Others more enthusiastic make straight 
ahead, always determining to do something, in spite of 
the dead opposition which so constantly meets them. 
But even these, after the days of youthful inspiration 
have passed, sigh as they labour. * They believed in 
the beauty of life, in the glory of saving life, in the 



210 THE WORLD OF PHYSIC. 

admiration of mankind for the duty. A dream ! They 
wake to the consciousness that of all things least ap- 
preciated, life is that thing. They see riding on the 
heart of every adult, man or woman, the disease atra 
cura, ' black care/ worry, which sits deadly, and for 
which there is no physical remedy less than death. 
They see men, without any obvious reason, running 
tilt against each other, and dogging each other, and 
persecuting each other, all for mere dross, unless it 
be that collision of mind is necessary for existence of 
mind. They see the affections of the young wounded, 
and the parental soul stabbed till it is lifeless. They 
see men ready, at all times and ages, to sacrifice any 
length of life to any shortness of ambition. Now a 
line of youths in their prime is in view, with fathers, 
mothers, and hosts of friends cheering them. They 
are going to row a race. If that act did, of necessity, 
deprive those youths of half an eye, or half a nose, 
or even half a ringer, they would not be in- 
duced to enter the lists so readily, neither would 
they be cheered so vociferously ; but because 
it costs them half a life, on they go : for, what is 
life ? Again, there is a line of older men, some 
very old, as we have seen recently, with boisterous 
friends, wives, sons, and daughters, this time cheering 
them on, and noisome enemies hissing in discord. 
These men are running to row in the boat of the 



THE WORLD OF PHYSIC. 211 

State ; they spend a year's accumulated animal force 
in shouting to a crowd that will not listen, but shouts 
again ; and they get, or get not, the famous two 
letters to their names by giving up a good tenth of 
all that remains of their ephemera. 

I refer to these things not in slight of reasonable 
competitive effort, physical or mental. I, who in the 
enthusiasm of scientific research have never hesitated 
to accept what the pusillanimous would call personal 
risk, have, least of all, a right to uphold fear of death 
or fear of shortening life, as a virtue. I do nothing of 
that sort, but look on the little general regard paid 
by humanity to its own individual existence as one 
of the most perfect of natural ordinances. I think no 
more noble words were ever spoken than those of 
brave old Sir Humfrey Gilbert : ' Give me leave there- 
fore, without offence, always to live and die in this 
mind : that he is not worthy to live at all, that for 
fear or danger of life shunneth his country's service 
and his own honour, seeing that death is inevitable 
and the fame of virtue immortal.' I think that our 
professional enemy, free will, is never so useful as 
when it is sustaining the brave. The truth that 

All men think all men mortal but themselves, 

is, to me, a great truth. I see free will setting the 
world proudly and properly above the most skilled of 



212 THE WORLD OF PHYSIC. 

curers. I would not ask even for a miracle to save 
myself from death, at the loss of free will. But I point 
out, none the less earnestly, that the world can never 
have those perfect results of medical science it craves 
for, while a greater power than science, that which 
makes science, the independency of the individual 
mind, reigns divinely supreme. 

The world at large should recall, as a guide to 
itself, not less than as an encouragement to scientific 
healers, what a vast amount of real knowledge is 
acquired by the physician. To master the details of 
structure, the anatomy of one organ of the animal 
body, is as great an effort as to master every detail of 
many occupations by which, exclusively, some men 
gain their bread. But the medical man, by infinite 
labour in a school of the most painful teaching, learns 
every organ of the body, and knows the body as other 
men know their houses or factories or machines. The 
number of diseases affecting humanity are over two 
hundred, yet are they so well understood by the 
medical world, that any seeming new form of disease is 
detected so soon as it makes itself known. The distri- 
bution of disease over the planet has been mapped 
out with such care that the charts of disease are as 
correct as are those of land and sea which the geo- 
grapher supplies. So soon as the chemist makes a 
new discovery of element, or compound, the physician 



THE WORLD OF PHYSIC. 213 

is after it, proves it, and takes it for his use, or rejects 
it, according to its worth. On these matters of know- 
ledge the true physician bases his practical skill ; sick 
himself, he has no other basis on which to rest. Can 
the world, except under force of folly and blindness, 
expect a better or a sounder foundation ? 

Once more. The world at large should never 
forget that the progress towards perfection, in medical 
science, must of necessity be extremely slow, because 
of the great anxieties and risks attendant upon its 
cultivation and development. The chemist, who is 
dealing with inert matter, proceeds in his course 
without any feeling of responsibility in regard to the 
material substances in his hands ; he can play with 
force and matter alike, indifferently, if he but take 
care of himself. The mechanist and engineer are in 
the same fortunate position. But the representative 
of medicine is circumstanced altogether differently. 
The wonderful organism which he treats is his own, 
or the same as his own ; towards it he feels sympathy, 
fear, affection, which are returned to him. Thus, in 
making every advance, the labour of the physician is 
infinite, the responsibility of the highest order. He 
has, probably, to begin by testing his new thought on 
inferior animals ; then, perchance, in many cases, he 
must proceed to himself, and on his own body make 
his preliminary investigations ; and, when all this is 



214 THE WORLD OF PHYSIC. 

achieved, he has to accept the risk of pronouncing, 
and bringing into practice, that which he thinks may 
be done. In this stage of his proceeding his anxieties 
are greater than ever, for the world at large is wont 
to look upon him as a theorist, and to request that, 
however valuable his advance may be, it be not tried 
on it. Neither can he blame the world on this account, 
it is so natural, though it may stand directly in his way. 
It is impossible, indeed, to describe how deep 
is the anxiety with which the thoughtful man 
moves in the progress of new inquiry in medi- 
cine. First, the mind has to give up something 
which it has been taught to believe and prac- 
tise ; next, it has to see solid grounds for dis- 
belief, and, by a process of negation, to begin its 
course. Then it has to weigh every reason why it 
should suggest new thought in place of the old ; and 
finally, it has to put its new reasoning into the cru- 
cible of experience, and to allow learned and unlearned 
alike to be judges of its value. These labours and 
anxieties are such, the wonder is that progress is made 
at the rate at which it actually travels. The majority 
of practitioners, burdened with the weight of many 
cases of disease continually on hand, have little 
leisure for new research, while those who have the 
leisure shrink, as a general rule, from investigation that 
lies out of the line of their direct daily pursuits. I put 



THE WORLD OF PHYSIC. 215 

it, therefore, to the members of the world at large to 
think generously on the advance of medicine, and to 
be satisfied that if the advance be slow, it is not too slow 
to be sure, or to deserve that confidence which they 
ultimately will have to repose in it as the partakers of 
the good it shall achieve. Moreover, and without a 
syllable against the conservatism men of the world 
exhibit when they express that they prefer to be in 
the hands of what they call ' the safe man/ who tries 
nothing new, I crave of them not to let the feeling 
pass into superstition and injustice. 

The world at large should recognise, better than 
it does, the great fact that, in true scientific medicine, 
there is no secrecy of knowledge, and should be more 
cautious than it is in believing that this or that man 
has some special gift, or information, which less 
favoured brethren have not. It is quite true there 
are men endowed with special gifts, resulting from 
practice or knowledge. One man has a delicate hand 
and strong heart for the performance of an operation, 
another man has not, and so far the particular man is 
to be trusted and rightly preferred in his particular 
way. But, carried to an extreme, the fashion of the 
public to specialise all medical men is painfully ab- 
surd, and is opposed to the best interests of the whole 
human family. To assume that one physician is, 
what is vulgarly called, ' clever ' (a term of positive 



216 THE WORLD OF PHYSIC. 

insult to a man of true science) for this malady, a 
second for that malady, and so on, is injurious alike 
to the profession and to the public. It fills the weak 
professional man with false pride, leading him from 
the contemplation of the body as a whole, and from 
disease as a unity presenting a variety of pheno- 
mena, to the contemplation of individual phenomena 
apart from unity. It impedes discovery, which must 
always be built on unity, because it divides thought 
and nourishes dogma. It ruins the public judgment, 
because it tempts the most insignificant mortal into 
the belief that, if he can only successfully inoculate 
the public mind with the assumption that he is spe- 
cially wise on the subject of a given disorder, he can 
succeed on such bare and base assumption. Lastly, 
it prevents men of broad and expanded views from 
cultivating their particular talents, and enshrouds 
them with the fear that if they give scope and cha- 
racter to their life, they will be considered, however 
accurate their learning, however sound their judgment, 
as too general in their aspirations, and too indefinite 
in their principles. 

In relation to this same subject, the world at large 
requires to be corrected in regard to the object it has 
before it, when it seeks the services of the physician 
or surgeon. Ninety-nine persons out of a hundred, 
who go to consult a medical man, never think of 



THE WORLD OF PHYSIC. 217 

asking for knowledge, but are content simply to ask for 
what they call * an opinion' Nay, when they change 
from one medical man to another, they take the step 
again, almost invariably, not with the desire of know- 
ing more, but of getting ' an opinion ' more. This is 
fatal error, leading to inconstancy, caprice, and de- 
ficient earnestness of purpose. An ' opinion ' can be 
given by anyone ; knowledge can only be supplied 
by the learned. I am so poor an astronomer I doubt 
if I could calculate the time of an eclipse, simple as 
the problem is to the learned in astronomy. But, if it 
would soothe the feelings of anyone present to have 
an opinion whether the inhabitants of other planets eat 
and drink as we do here, I might safely undertake to 
give an opinion on that subject, particularly if the 
usual fee were remitted, as sound as could be given 
by an Adams, a Leverrier, or a Herschel. 

I do not offer these remarks as against opinion, 
based on knowledge, but only as showing the folly, so 
widely prevailing, of seeking opinion irrespective of 
knowledge. True it is that the profession itself, to a 
large extent, corrects this folly, because medical men, 
when they meet together, go direct enough to the 
question, not of opinion but of knowledge, and test and 
try each other with a severity which those outside the 
pale little comprehend. It would be better for the 
members of the public to imitate this example ; and, 






2i 8 THE WORLD OF PHYSIC. 

in hours of trial, before they throw the handkerchief 
from this physician to that, to return disappointed, 
as they constantly do return, to the physician who 
knows them best, to consider on what grounds they 
make the change, why one man should know more 
than another, and what solid reason gossiping advisers 
have for upsetting the relationships that ought to exist 
between the sick man and his conscientious adviser. 
The present time is one in which these words require 
to be very decisively spoken. The break in the 
relationships I have named, is based, often, on such 
frivolous arguments that the faithful physician is left 
without heart to pursue rigorously and thoughtfully 
the course he sees most advantageous to his patient ; 
and the result is, that he loses interest in his charge, 
pleasure in his duty. In doubt or difficulty he has 
not, and cannot have, the slightest hesitation in ex- 
pressing doubt or difficulty, and in saying to his 
patient, ' I, who know most correctly the capacities of 
my profession, the true workers in it, should like, if I 
were in your place, to gather the knowledge which 
some one of my brethren may possess.' But to be 
allowed no opportunity for such suggestion, to be 
discarded to-day, and courted to-morrow, equally 
against reason, is a process morally bad. The good 
man palls under it, grows cynical, cold, doubtful. The 
shallow man alone luxuriates in it ; the people, says 



THE WORLD OF PHYSIC. 219 

he, want an opinion, and care little for knowledge ; 
why then should I burden myself with knowledge, 
when opinion will pass for knowledge and wisdom 
both combined ? 

An intelligent interest on the part of the world at 
large, an interest which every honest physician longs 
to see evinced, would lead to a direct reform in the 
world of physic itself; it would make the profession 
more secure, the sick safer, the healthy happier. It 
would inspire that just pride in the members of the 
profession which is the very soul of true attainment, 
and would let every man feel he is esteemed for what 
he is, and not for what he seems to be. 

It may be expected, from what I have already 
said, that I shall forthwith proceed to call in question 
the consort of the people with quacks ; or pass an 
anathema on quacks and quackery individually and 
collectively. From this I abstain. Consort of the 
community with quacks is so obviously the result of 
ignorance, that, if the most moderate share of attention 
were given to the subject, if a tithe of the attention I 
have prayed on behalf of the profession itself were 
given by the world to the subject, communion with 
quacks and their foolish arts would naturally cease. 
As to the quacks, to notice them were to elevate them. 
Belonging strictly to the worst of the criminal classes, 
they are moved by no sentiments which the most 



220 THE WORLD OF PHYSIC. 

acute criticism could touch. A professed gambler 
may have sense of honour, a professed pickpocket 
may have skill, a professed burglar may have courage: 
the professed quack has the sins of them all, the saving 
qualities of none. He is, because he is permitted, a' 
forced necessity of morbid minds. One thing only 
would I note in his history as most wonderful : namely, 
that the grand disseminators of human knowledge, 
the grand teachers of moral truths, the proprietors of 
the fourth estate, do often allow him unblushingly to 
deface their fair pages with his falsehoods, his snares, 
his open loathsome sins. Day by day the press, in 
daring faultless language and sentiment, exposes vice 
and purifies the thought of the world : day by day, in 
many of its organs, it sells itself to the advertisement 
of immoralities worse than the worst it endeavours 
to remove. 

THE WORLD OF PHYSIC TO THE WORLD AT 
LARGE. 

In asking the world at large to cultivate a more 
correct understanding of the world of physic, it were 
false to assume that the world of physic has no new 
obligations to perform in return, no new understand- 
ings to acquire. Quite the contrary, if it has some- 
thing it ought to take, it has much also it ought to 



THE WORLD OF PHYSIC. 221 

give, and that without reserve or waiting for primary 
acknowledgments. 

In the first place, the world of physic has arrived 
at a point when, without dogmatical violence, it should 
be ready to sustain a firm defence of all its practical 
part. The time has been when, in medicine univer- 
sally, there was the same science as that which our 
still extant Lama physician, with his iron stick, 
leathern bag, tea-kettle, garner of vegetables, paper 
pills, and demoniacal horse, so proudly possesses. In 
simple enquiry for remedies possessing each a specific 
virtue, in charms or spells, our ancient fathers of now 
civilised medicine spent their days. Slowly they gave 
up the direct superstitions ; yet so slowly that, as late 
as the reign of the second Charles, there were some 
who conceived the royal touch a cure for scrofula, and 
when that mad monarch went about his bad business 
into the unknown, there were some, who, with a strong 
dash of superstition hanging to them, must needs 
cram dead bones, finely powdered, down the royal 
gullet into the royal stomach itself. But, in time, the 
direct superstitions died out, the actual remedies were 
left to work alone, and physicians of eminence became 
great in particular remedies for particular diseases. 
Old Dr. Radcliffe's book of receipts, what a tenacious 
hold it had ! and pharmacopoeias sent out from head- 
quarters, what wonderful forms they supplied ! ' Philo- 



222 777^ WORLD OF PHYSIC. 

sophic oil of bricks,' imagine that for the name of a 
remedy ! and broth made of vipers, think of that for 
a speciality of curative character ! 

These things are swept away, and the principle of 
trying to discover remedies by empirical observation 
is on the wane. The whole field of medicine is in- 
deed so changed, that, if a physician well informed 
in all modern advancements could possibly meet even 
such true men of the last century as Richard Mead, 
or John Arbuthnott, I doubt if there could be any 
common understanding between them, either in respect 
to the nature of symptoms, cause of disease, or question 
of treatment. Notwithstanding, there is yet great 
work to be done. Still influenced by the crude hy- 
pothesis of the possession of particular remedies for 
particular diseases, still vain of its method of learning 
by loose and disconnected observation, the medical 
mind is weak, watery even, in the knowledge of posi- 
tive treatment. It flatters itself with what it calls 
experience, which means individual opinion as to the 
virtue of some particular thing, tested all on one side, 
without a single research in the line of disproof, and 
without the remotest allowance for the almost cer- 
tainty of coincidence. Or, running into an extreme 
of disbelief, it flatters itself again on an experience 
in an opposite direction, experience of doubt as to 
the positive value of medicinal remedies altogether. 



THE WORLD OF PHYSIC. 223 

Thus it is open to any man to obtain notoriety for 
any remedy however absurd, and based on hypotheses 
however foolish, if he will swear hard enough, and 
loud enough, to the good results which are seen while 
the patient is under the remedy, and nothing more. 
Thus it is also open to any man to gain notoriety by, 
practically, giving no remedies at all, if he will only 
swear hard enough, and loud enough, to the good 
results which were observed while the patient was 
under no remedy, and will be silent on all else. 

Let it not be concealed a moment that this state, 
though it mark only a transitional stage of learning, 
is all wrong. It makes the profession, where it should 
be as firm as adamant and as certain as time, loose 
as sand and uncertain as the wind. Thus circum- 
stanced, the profession gives way to popular cries, 
and, with blushing face, bends its head, in mass, even 
to the ignorant fashions of the hour. For two thousand 
years one remedy I could name held unrivalled sway. 
Suddenly, by caprice of experience and fortuity, this 
remedy became unpopular ; straightway from that 
side of it which was good its masters turned their 
ready eyes to that side of it which was evil, and lo ! 
the remedy of two thousand years was let go in a 
quarter of a generation. In contrast, there springs 
up another remedy I could name, which for more 
than two thousand years had held a modest place. 



224 THE WORLD OF PHYSIC. 

Caprice and fortuity now lifted this remedy into the 
sunshine of favour ; straightway from that side of it 
which was bad 'its masters turn their eyes to that 
which was good, and lo ! the remedy is so exalted 
that grinning Bacchus leaves his barrel to find out 
Esculapius, and congratulate him on the conversion 
of his family to the right faith at last. 

You smile ; it is a theme on which to be solemn. 
There can be no true, practical, safe or sound medical 
skill, no freedom from quackery, no mutual trust 
between the world of physic and the world at large, 
until each man of physic can conscientiously say, 
Whatever I believe, or teach, I know. 

You ask me one fundamental question. Of two 
hundred and more well-marked series of phenomena 
known as special diseases, how many, under the 
proper natural conditions for recovery, would pass 
into recovery and health without any special remedy 
at all ? I am not ignorant of medicine, but I answer 
boldly, on that point I have no knowledge. Basic 
as the question is, corrective of innumerable pretences 
as the true answer to it would be, it has never yet 
been systematically studied, nor held worthy of serious 
regard. The mutual understanding that should sub- 
sist between the world of physic and the world at 
large on this point, rests for obtainment with the world 
of physic. It is in the interest of medicine, as it is in its 



THE WORLD OF PHYSIC. 225 

duty, to save the world the labour of the answer, and 
to become itself consolidated by the first possession of 
the truth. 

To make, with rapidity and certainty, those ad- 
vances which shall place the physician in the posses- 
sion of the positive scientific practical knowledge 
which he requires, the world of physic generally is 
bound to look a little more keenly at the advances of 
pure physical science, and at the physical connec- 
tions which exist between man and the natural forces 
which surround him, and, if I may so say, fill him. 
The thought that man is an isolation, common as it 
is, is a thought which must be sacrificed to truth. 
The physician who looks on a living body before him 
as belonging to itself, to a part of the earth, to the 
earth altogether, and nothing more, is no true physi- 
cian. That body which he touches, moving in its un- 
dying course, belongs to the whole universe of God. It 
breathes, it yields a breath of matter, having substance, 
weight, even form ! What is the destination of that 
invisible breath ? That body speaks and sets in motion 
waves of infinite matter, extending in infinite space, 
through infinite time : not a breath, not a sound, not 
a motion, not a thought lost. 'Tis a sublime orga- 
nism. Yet are we favoured to learn it, as we shall 
one day know it, as a simple organism ; an organism 
now bending under the attraction of mother earth, 



226 THE WORLD OF PHYSIC. 

weak, exhausted : now charged with force, strong, 
and resisting the attraction : again, weaker and 
weaker, and at last so weak that it returns to the 
grasping mother, senseless as herself, her own. What 
relations of force to matter subtend in these pheno- 
mena ? That is the first question for the modern 
physician. Drugs, instruments, old drugs, old in- 
struments, new drugs, new instruments, they are the 
same, until they take their secondary place ; then, in 
their place, they may all be good. In this, the pure phy- 
sical line of advancement in medicine, there is promise 
untold. To follow it, it is not necessary that many 
men be taken from the toiling ranks. The bases lie 
soundly for its advance, and the revolution of thought 
and practice which it will bring must needs be slow, 
silent, and attuned to the time. 

I do not stop to name minor advances of the 
world of physic, though many tempt me by the way, 
but pass, finally, to consider one which refers rather 
to a neglected than an unrecognised subject. I mean 
the careful study of moral and mental curative 
measures as supplementary and conclusive to those 
which are purely physical. The most scientific phy- 
sicians have, I think, fallen into the error of studying, 
with too exclusive a care, the observable conditions 
of the body, healthy or diseased, and those agents or 
agencies for curing diseases which produce the most 



THE WORLD OF PHYSIC. 227 

obvious effects, such as knives and other instruments, 
anaesthetic vapours, active drugs, heat and cold, elec- 
trical shocks, and the like. I take it truly that these 
are naturally first studies. It is fair to infer, from the 
general plan of creation, that the simplest organism is 
the primitive, and that the pure physical existence is 
the groundwork and the primary necessity of the 
highest form of living thinking -thing. But granting 
this, we, men and women, highest forms on this earth 
at all events, are, as Plato magnificently teaches, 
" plants not of earth but of heaven, and from the same 
source whence the soul first arose, a divine nature, 
raising aloft our head and root, directs our whole 
corporeal frame." While, therefore, it is by nature 
the first duty of the healer to make the corporeal 
frame pure and whole, is it not equally his duty to 
study what shall enter by the senses or windows of 
the mind, and, though invisibly entering, be potent 
forces for evil or for good ? Because an agency is 
not visible, not tangible, is it less real ? If a man 
lose his mind by the failure of his blood, that, it is 
said, is plain to understand, for it is physical. But, if 
some horror come upon the man through his mind, so 
that, like poor Horatio, he is bechilled 

Almost to jelly by the act of fear, 
Stands dumb and speaks not; 

is not that, too, physical ; an action direct of mind on 



223 THE WORLD OF PHYSIC. 

matter, reversing the physics of the body and creating 
disease? It must be so, and in the study of this 
action from the universe into the man there lies a 
world unknown. With strange acuteness, charlatans 
of all kinds have touched, without understanding, 
this unknown world. They have played, it is said, 
on the credulity of man ; they have done more, they 
have, in ignorance of what they were doing, touched 
the animal motion through the direct entrances by 
which the universal spirit also enters. The need for 
new contemplation here increases with the intellectual 
development of the race. The cave-dweller is gone. 
The Norseman is gone. The crusader is gone. The 
animal body, living with powers superior to the soul 
within it, must also, in the course of the suns, alto- 
gether pass away, to be replaced by an organism 
more finely moulded, more accessible to the external 
beauty and harmony, more sensitive of pain, more 
sensible of weakness, less susceptible of maladies 
evidenced through matter, more susceptible of mala- 
dies evidenced through mind, and more impressionable 
to cure or to injury, through the mind, than through 
the baser body. To study these changes of existence 
and action ; to open this unknown world of natural 
truth ; not to trade upon the knowledge of its existence, 
but to comprehend it with the grasp of a philosopher, 
is a duty to which the man of physic must devote 



THE WORLD OF PHYSIC. 229 

himself with zeal, or recede with humiliation from one 
of the highest seats in philosophy. 

Our million of physic, scattered over every part 
of the planet where there is enfeebled humanity to be 
tended, cherished, and upheld, by night and by day, 
it, and its relations to the world, its good, its bad, its 
hopes, its despairs, we can on this occasion follow no 
longer. I have tried to present it faithfully. I have 
tried to show its strength ; I have not tried to conceal 
its weakness. Called forth by the world itself from 
dire distress, a natural birth, its mere existence proves 
it to be a useful million of the hundred thousand 
millions in which it lives and moves. Who follows 
its work with his whole heart, and for itself, must 
needs be one whom the best may envy and approve. 
Who follows its work with no heart, and for himself 
alone, must needs be one the worst may pity and 
contemn. Its plainest, simplest work, well done, the 
world of physic must remain in fair comparison with 
all the world beside. Its noblest work realised, it 
must make all science subservient to its grand intents, 
and ultimately reveal the mystery of life with a 
clearness and simplicity that shall render only the 
more wonderful, and the more sublimely inapproach- 
able, the wisdom of the ' uncreated, super-essential, 
and all-beauteous mind.' 



11 



VII. 
BURIAL, EMBALMING, AND CREMATION. 



subjects are exciting more interest at the 
present time than the mode of disposal of the 
human dead. 

In the controversy that has been and that is still 
being waged, various combatants present themselves. 
The hardy man of science and the studious divine, 
the enthusiastic layman and the sympathetic lay- 
woman : indeed, we might include in the controversy 
all who expect to be disposed of after death, without 
greatly perverting the history of our time in relation 
to the question that lies before us. 

The reason for so much controversy and so much 
difference of opinion on a very simple subject, lies in 
the diversities of sentiment which have ever existed, 
and which still exist, between different families of 
men, on the solemn subject of death and after- exist- 
ence. To bury, to embalm, to cremate, are acts the 
inclination to either of which depends altogether 



BURIAL, EMBALMING, AND CREMATION. 231 

upon the disposition of those who have to carry these 
acts into practice. This disposition depends, not on 
reasoning, but on instinct. This instinct depends, 
not on accident, but on the most veritable of all 
human endowments, on the organic origin and build 
of the man, and of the men from whom the man 
springs ; in other words, upon racial and family dis- 
positions and qualities. 

The view that the varied modes of disposal of the 
dead are indications of varied forms of civilisation is 
indirectly supported by all the writers who have dwelt 
on the subject. The balance of opinion on the pro- 
cesses of committing, ' earth to earth/ or ' ashes to 
ashes/ is pretty nearly equal, and the care with which 
the ceremony of either process is performed shows that 
both are regarded with befitting solemnity, even by 
uncultivated communities. We know how, amongst 
our poor and ignorant masses, the most respectful, 
and, we may add, costly attention is paid to and for 
the act of burial. The same care and cost is in like 
manner paid, by the poor of other communities, to and 
for the act of cremation. On the ground, therefore, 
of mere personal respect for the dead, the one plan is 
much the same as the other in value. 

Dr. K. McLeod, in an article in the ' Indian 
Medical Gazette/ for April i, 1875, sums up all the 
modes of disposal of the dead except two. The 






232 BURIAL, EMBALMING* AND CREMATION* 

Hindoos, he says, burn their dead ; the Mahomedans 
bury without any coffin ; the Europeans bury with a 
coffin ; the Parsees expose their dead to be eaten by 
birds of prey. If he had added that they' wlio live 
on the sea commit their dead to the deep, and that 
a few wealthy persons still call in the embalmer for 
the exercise of his skill, this statement would have been 
fairly complete. 

PRIMITIVE CREMATION. 

We are indebted to this author for one or two 
graphic pictures of the mode of cremation that pre- 
vails amongst the Hindoos, and of the mode of burial 
without any coffin which prevails amongst the Maho- 
medan populations. As these and other modes of 
disposal of the dead are each being considered and 
discussed at the present time, I may with advantage 
cull one or two interesting details respecting them. 

To commence with the Hindoo system that is 
to say, with the process of cremation in its natural 
home we read the following facts. " The body is 
dressed in its best garments, and, after being decorated 
with flowers, is placed in the sitting posture, and is 
surrounded with piles of wood, the richer classes using 
the scented sandal-wood. Then, if the deceased be a 
noble or native magnate of some parts of India, the 
heir first breaks open the skull of the corpse with a 



BURIAL, EMBALMING, AND CREMATION. 233 

hatchet (to make sure, we presume, that the assumed 
dead man shall not be burned alive), after which he 
(the heir) lights the funeral pyre. If there be sufficient 
wood, and the wood is a good fuel-wood, and has 
been artistically arranged, nothing offensive is pre- 
sented to either the sense of smell or of vision. The 
devouring element rapidly envelopes the different 
faggots until the whole is a mass of blaze, giving the 
beholder a very vivid idea that the ' rite ' of suttee 
could not have entailed a very painful or prolonged 
death. Even should the looker-on allow the wind to 
pass between the flames and his nobility, he distin- 
guishes nothing except, perhaps, the odour of burning 
wood, and he sees nothing except fire. Above the 
blaze and below the smoke, when the latter occurs 
from damp wood, there is a bright ethereal glimmer, 
somewhat resembling, but more diamond-like by far, 
the appearance of the distant atmosphere on a hot 
day. Then, as minutes pass, this glimmer subsides, 
and the flame lessens until nothing remains but an 
insignificant heap of greyish ashes. The body has 
changed to something else as different as the soul in 
its new Pythagorean abode. A pyre as big as that 
of Sardanapalus affords no protection to the ashes of 
the dead. Everything has gone, not, perhaps, to dust, 
but into those still more subtle ultimate elements from 
which the dust itself is derived. There is, indeed, as 



234 BURIAL, EMBALMING, AND CREMATION. 

a result of a well-conducted funeral pyre, an utter 
annihilation of the body. It can never, says our 
author it can never again, as a substance, do either 
harm or good, either by resolution or by putrefaction. 
It has, in short, ceased to exist. Of course consump- 
tion is not thus complete at every funeral pile. At 
most Hindoo burning-places bodies half-destroyed 
by fire may be seen in great numbers, and it not un- 
frequently happens that during the process of burning 
there is some unpleasant effluvium. This, however, 
is simply the result of want of precaution or want of 
fuel, and is, therefore, only, or at least chiefly, noticed 
at the funeral rites of the poor and needy. With 
sufficient wood the destruction may always be ren- 
dered as complete as has been described." 

From this excellent description of the Hindoo 
method of cremation we may turn with interest to an 
account of a similar process, as it is conducted by the 
sub-tribe of Pah-Utes, known as the Cotton Wood, 
Corn Creek, Spring Mountain, and Pah-rimp Spring 
Indians. The description is supplied to the ' Trans- 
actions of the American Philosophical Society ' by 
Mr. W. J. Hoffman, who, in 1871-2, was attached to 
Lieutenant Wheeler's expedition through the terri- 
tories of the American Indian tribes. The tract of 
country in which Mr. Hoffman found the practice of 
cremation to exist lies between noand 115 35' west 



BURIAL, EMBALMING, AND CREMATION. 235 

longitude and latitude north 35 and 36. Spring 
Mountain is the stronghold of the tribe, and is located 
just north of the ' Old Spanish Trail.' Upon the 
death of one of these Pah-Utes, Hoffman tells us, a pile 
of wood is prepared in the immediate vicinity ; this 
is so arranged as to form a rectangle, to the height of 
from two to three feet. The corpse is laid upon the pile, 
and the fire is started, after which wood is continually 
thrown across the pile until the body is reduced as 
much as possible. Mesquite, pine, and cedar are usually 
employed ; they form excellent fuel, and give an in- 
tense heat. All the remaining property of the dead, 
the wearing apparel, arms, blankets, dogs, and horse 
(if the deceased possessed one) is also burned. Ac- 
cording to the belief of these Indians, when an Indian 
dies his spirit goes to the East, which they consider 
the 'white man's hunting-ground,' and where he would 
be unable to hunt were his spirit deprived of these 
valuable aids. The remains are then covered with 
earth, but whether they are really buried the author 
could not ascertain. Amongst thirty sub-tribes of the 
same Indian region, that of the Pah-Utes is the only 
one that ' cremates.' 

MODERN CREMATION. 

Such is an outline of primitive cremation as it is 
at present carried on in uncivilised nations. How far 
it resembles the ancient methods of Greek and Roman 



236 BURIAL, EMBALMING, AND CREMATION. 

days my readers are as capable as myself of forming 
an estimate. The modern civilised cremationist dis- 
cards these methods of cremation. They are to him 
rude and costly and slow. He calls into his aid the 
skill of modern science, and if he does not destroy 
the dead organism and rend it into its elements with 
quite the same rapidity as the noble author of the 
' Coming Race ' with its ' Vrill force/ he makes some 
approach to that last-named wonderful imaginary 
agency. In the following description we take from 
Sir Henry Thompson an account of an experiment in 
which he cremated the body of an animal that weighed 
no less than 227 pounds, and was not emaciated. " The 
body was placed in a cylindrical vessel about seven 
feet long by five or six in diameter. The interior of 
the vessel was already heated to about 2,000 F. The 
inner surface of the cylinder was smooth, almost 
polished, and no solid matter but that of the body 
was introduced into it. The product, therefore, could 
be nothing more than the ashes of the body. No 
foreign dust could be introduced, no coal or other 
solid combustible being near it ; nothing but heated 
hydrocarbon in a gaseous form and heated air. No- 
thing was visible in the cylinder before using it, a 
pure, almost white interior, the lining having ac- 
quired a temperature of white heat. In this case the 
gases, given off from the body so abundantly at first, 



BURIAL, EMBALMING, AND CREMATION. 237 

passed through a highly heated chamber, among 
thousands of interstices made by intersecting fire- 
bricks laid throughout the entire chamber, lattice 
fashion, in order to minutely divide and delay the 
current and expose it to an immense area of heated 
surface. By this means the gases were rapidly oxidised, 
and not a particle of smoke issued by the chimney ; 
no second furnace, therefore, is necessary, by this 
method, to consume any noxious matters, since none 
escape. The process was complete in fifty-five 
minutes ; and the ashes, which weighed about five 
pounds, were removed with ease." 

Mr. Eassie, whose enthusiastic work on cremation 
is so well known, in speaking of the results of the 
cremation of the human subject as practised in a 
Siemens' furnace in Dresden, says that in the course 
of the process nothing whatever is seen that can in 
any way be considered objectionable. The body 
remains of itself perfectly motionless, and without 
visible contraction or convulsion. Several late human 
cremations, he states, have been purposely witnessed 
by eminently scientific men and others, through the 
glass panel door which is always provided for the use 
of the manufacturing operator, and the utter absence 
of anything which could prove the least distressing to 
the mind, the eye, or the imagination, is vouched for 
by all. The current of combined air and gas simply 



238 BURIAL, EMBALMING, AND CREMATION. 

plays upon the body with a transparent flame until 
the whole becomes incandescent. There is not even 
the least effluvium. Once incandescent, the body 
soon assumes a hue of translucent white, and then 
speedily crumbles into ashes. Entering still further 
into detail, Mr. Eassie suggests that if the practice 
should at all become general, the body to be cremated 
should be enclosed before cremation. The body, he 
thinks, should be placed in a coffin made of some 
light material, and taken in due time to the mortuary, 
ready for conveyance to the cinerator ; and as it is 
desirable that the ashes of the body should be kept 
separate from those of any coffin, a shroud of some 
imperishable material will have to be carefully sought 
after by inventors. The ancient Greeks, he adds, made 
use of asbestos, which is a fibrous form of hornblende ; 
and those Egyptians who performed cremation en- 
closed the body in a receptacle of amianth, a similar 
incombustible mineral substance. Whether these 
materials will resist the intense heat of a Siemens' 
furnace, he is not able to say ; but wood, at all events, 
is likely to be rejected on account of the residue of 
carbon, which might not be easily separated from the 
more precious relics. Lead would be equally objec- 
tionable. In all probability the most suitable mate- 
rial for the inner coffin, which alone is to be submitted 
to the impingement of the hot blast, will be zinc. 



BURIAL, EMBALMING, AND CREMATION. 239 

This metal would entirely disappear in the furnace 
heat, the reason being that it is volatile, and would 
distil off below the minimum temperature that would 
reign in the chamber of the apparatus. 

Mr. Eassie also prearranges for the changes in the 
service or ritual in the case of a dead body disposed 
of by cremation. He tells us that in one Dresden 
arrangement the body is lowered into a receiver below, 
and the idea of interment is thus in a manner pre- 
served. In the English arrangement, which by the 
way has not yet been carried out on the human sub- 
ject, the coffin is made to slide gradually into the 
receiver like a ship launched into water. The an- 
guish induced by the moment of departure is in this 
way, he opines, somewhat ameliorated, as there is no 
noise of lowering machinery to grate upon the ear. 
He adds suggestively that at certain appointed words 
in our beautiful funeral service for instance, at the 
words ' ashes to ashes ' a curtain might be partially 
withdrawn, and the body, enclosed in a suitable shell, 
might gravitate slowly into the chamber of the ap- 
paratus, which would then immediately close noise- 
lessly, to be opened only after the complete reduction 
of the body. The utmost privacy would be ensured, 
and no strange eyes could gaze upon the body during 
the period of incineration. The funeral service could, 
if desirable, be made to occupy the whole of the time 



*40 BURIAL, EMBALMING, AND CREMATION. 

necessary for sublimation ; or an eulogy or other re- 
ference to the departed might form the subject of a 
discourse. The ashes could afterwards be collected 
and reverentially placed in an urn and conveyed to 
their last resting-place. 

The uncivilised and the civilised methods of cre- 
mation, the proposed and the actual, are now before 
the reader. We may contrast these methods with 
some others that are suggested as modifications of 
burial in the earth. 

BURIAL IN THE EARTH. 

A modification of the ordinary system of burial 
common in this country is proposed by Mr. Haden as 
an improvement on the furnace system of cremation 
that has just been narrated. Mr. Haden proposes 
practically the mode of burial which is practised by 
the Mahomedans, with this difference, however, that 
whereas the Mahomedan places the corpse directly in 
earth, enclosed at most in a shawl or garment, Mr. 
Haden recommends that it be enclosed in a wicker 
basket or coffin surrounded with flowers, or enclosed 
in a layer of charcoal if the cause of death has been 
an infectious disorder. He instructs us that the body, 
" as soon after death as may be, is to be sponged, the 
eyes are to be closed, the chin supported, the limbs 
composed, and the hands crossed upon the breast. 



BURIAL, EMBALMING, AND CREMATION. 241 

Superfluous bedclothes, together with the impediments 
and rejectments of the sick room, are to be removed, 
and a window is to be opened a few inches, both at 
the top and at the bottom. The papers of the de- 
ceased may then be examined, and, if these contain 
nothing to forbid it, the first preparations for the 
funeral may be made in the following way. As part 
of the ordinary stock-in-trade of every turner, brush- 
maker, or basket-maker will be found, nested one 
within the other, and of every form and dimensions, 
the necessary covering or coffin ; at every herbalist's 
or florist's, its garniture. Both, being light and por- 
table, may be delivered at the house in an hour or 
two, and the body may be at once laid in it and 
strewn (except the face and hands, which should be 
left exposed) with its evergreen covering. All this 
may be done by the nurses or older servants or mem- 
bers of the family, and no stranger need be admitted. 
There is now ample time to consider arrangements 
for the visit of the physician or surgeon charged to 
verify the fact of death, to telegraph to friends, and 
to make final preparations for the interment. The 
morrow comes, and everything prepared inside and 
out, the necessary agents for the interment will enter 
the house for the first time and the last, and remove 
the body in a suitable carriage, either by railway or 
by water, to its resting-place outside the city, one of 



242 BURIAL, EMBALMING, AND CREMATION. 

the male representatives of the family in every case 
accompanying it. There will be no procession through 
the streets no opportunity for display nothing to 
elicit either the sympathy or the criticism of the 
neighbourhood (both on such an occasion equally out 
of place) ; but, arrived at the cemetery, the body will 
wait in the mortuary chapel attached to it with those 
who are to be present at its interment. These, hav- 
ing been informed of the death, will go and return, as 
their desires, affections, or respect for the dead impel 
them. The assembly will be in the chapel, and at 
the grave-side only, where the mourners, men and 
women (for since there is to be no public display both 
may go), will find the trellised coffin on its bier 
garnished and beautified by loving hands awaiting 
them. Not a word of our burial service will be 
omitted, though more may be said in the chapel and 
less at the grave-side, and then all will be over. There 
will be no reunion at the house of death. The con- 
ventional feast will not be spread. The formal reading 
of the will, will be at the office of the legal adviser of 
the family on a day appointed for the purpose ; and 
the inmates of the house of mourning will return to 
it and be allowed to remain undisturbed. Next day 
everyone will to his business." 

With Mr. Seymour Haden I think that it would 
be vain to construct the best burial-ground if the 



BURIAL, EMBALMING, AND CREMATION. 243 

present system of enclosing the dead in coffins of 
wood or iron or lead were to continue. The coffin 
should be nothing more than an easily destructible 
shroud, in which the mortal remains may be concealed 
from view until they are deposited in the earth. The 
present coffin is after the mode of an Egyptian sar- 
cophagus, and is probably an imitation of that recep- 
tacle. In the form of this receptacle there is nothing 
objectionable, and if the popular taste wills that it 
shall be maintained, so be it. But the structure must 
be so modified that the instant the body is placed in 
the earth it shall either be in direct contact with the 
surrounding earthy matter or shall be separated from 
it by some simple organic material that is easily 
and rapidly destroyed. The newly proposed wicker 
coffins would probably answer the purpose intended, 
fairly ; but they have the fault of not being sufficiently 
destructible. A return to the ancient bier and to the 
primitive mode of simply enveloping the body in cloth 
would be by far the most rational modification. 

It is presumed by some who advocate this direct 
mode of burial that interment should in all cases be 
carried out within a short interval after death ; that a 
period of not more than thirty-six hours should be al- 
lowed to elapse between the cessation of life and the dis- 
posal of the lifeless body in the ground. There can be 
no doubt that the method of placing the body in the 






244 BURIAL, EMBALMING, AND CREMATION. 

coffin, and of partially or temporarily closing it up, 
has led to much error in the manner of detaining the 
dead among the living, and it is not less doubtful that 
when, in any instance, actual decomposition of the 
tissues has commenced, the time for interment, how- 
ever short it may be, has fairly arrived. The system 
of burying without the coffin would therefore, in a 
sanitary point of view, be of advantage. It would 
lead to interment, in every case, so soon as the direct 
evidence of decomposition had set in, and in the 
majority of instances that would be within forty-eight 
hours from the time of the demise. Third-day burials 
would become the rule. This period would be suffi- 
cient to establish the fact of death on the one hand, 
and to prevent injury to the living on the other. 

The kind of earth that should be placed in the 
cemetery, and in which the dead should be buried, 
requires some minuteness of detail. The construction 
of the soil of the burial-ground is of first moment, 
and might readily be made matter of legislation. 
The soil that is most fitting for this purpose is a fine 
carboniferous mould, or a mixture of carbon and sand. 
In such a soil the complete removal of the body 
might, under proper conditions of burial, be secured 
within a period of five years ; and in such a soil re- 
newal of burial might be carried out after every such 
interval. In Naples it has been customary to bury 



BURIAL, EMBALMING, AND CREMATION. 245 

in pits of earth in which lime has been placed ; to 
bury so many bodies in one section on a given day ; 
to allow that section to rest for a year ; then to remove 
the whole of the earth of the section with its organic 
remains, to refill with new earth and bury again for 
the year in the new earth. In this country such a 
prompt system would not be tolerated ; but the 
method of burial in a destructive, though more slowly 
destructive, bed, would meet probably every view, 
without creating undue prejudice at the commence- 
ment of the reformation. In some localities a natural 
soil would yield all that is wanted for a perfect burial 
in earth. In other localities the earth would have to 
be specially constructed. A series of carefully con- 
ducted experiments on the destructive powers of 
various earths are required before a perfect system 
can be evolved. It will probably be found that an 
earth composed of equal parts of fine carbon soil, 
sand and lime, would be the most rapid of all com- 
binations for the destruction of the animal matter 
with absorption of the products of decomposition. In 
a cemetery correctly constructed, with twelve feet of 
prepared earth as its basis, the soil might remain 
undisturbed, except for the purposes of burial, for 
many years, long enough, certainly, for the burial- 
place of the majority of the dead to be forgotten, and 
for the dead body to pass into entire reunion with 



246 BURIAL, EMBALMING, AND CREMATION. 

the earth from whence it sprang. After a given and 
due time, without any injury to sentiment, the soil 
could be removed in sections, and could be resupplied 
with new soil for new burials. 

The artificial soil which would prove the most effec- 
tive for the purposes of burial is suggested as above 
from the facts I have gleaned during the direct obser- 
vation of the action of different substances on dead 
organic matter. Specimens of such matter buried in 
pure carbon, in virgin carboniferous earth, in a mixture 
of carboniferous earth and sand, and in this latter 
mixture to which lime had been added, were found 
to undergo quick resolution, in the last most, in the first 
least effectively. A fresh carboniferous earth answers 
exceedingly well, far better than simple vegetable 
carbon. The rapidity with which it deodorises even 
decomposing animal matter is most remarkable. It 
may be said to act in a matter of minutes. The 
rapidity with which it produces destruction of the 
organic substance, especially if it be kept dry, is 
equally surprising. The complete destruction may 
be included in from twenty to thirty weeks. It is 
worthy of remark, however, that all the parts of 
an animal body are not equally destroyed. The 
integumentary parts and the membranes are more 
slowly destroyed than the muscular, and the muscular 
parts are more slowly destroyed than the nervous. 



BURIAL, EMBALMING, AND CREMATION. 247 

The bony parts are more resistant to destruction than 
the integuments, and the pigments are more resistant 
than bone. 

It is not assumed that the above-named descrip- 
tion of a prepared earth for the cemetery is perfect. 
It is an approximation to the truth. A carefully 
conducted series of new experiments are required to 
bring out the precise necessity. 

It is possible, and indeed probable, that in course 
of time many of these details will gradually come 
into action. The most probable reform is that which 
relates to coffins. It is not likely that the English 
people, in imitation of Mahomedan populations, will 
ever cast the body of the dead man into the ground 
' like a dog ' when it is committed to the earth ; but 
that the heavy wooden coffin and the costly covering 
of lead will be dispensed with I have little doubt. 

THE PARSEE GARDEN. 

The silent garden of the Parsee, in which he ex- 
poses his departed to the havoc of the carnivorous 
birds of prey, is a practice of disposal of the dead 
which amongst the civilised nations of the earth would 
not, I think, gain friends even if the birds of prey 
were ready to perform the task of burial. Diogenes 
himself, sharp as was his satire when he begged for 
the little stick to be laid by his dead body, that he 



248 BURIAL, EMBALMING, AND CREMATION. 

might drive off the carnivora, and trite as was his 
argument founded upon the request, could hardly 
persuade the modern European, American, or other 
representative of modern civilisation, to follow the 
Parsee to the place of the Parsee dead. 

EMBALMMENT. 

The mode of disposal of the dead by the process 
of embalming, a mode very ancient, and in respect to 
the disposal of ruling persons, all but universal, is still 
likely to retain its place under some conditions. It 
deserves a passing notice here. 

It has been urged against the art of embalming in 
modern days that it is an objectionable and unneces- 
sary art. I agree that it is not often necessary to 
practise it, but it is not true to say that, when it is in 
this day properly carried out, it is actually objection- 
able. It is not more objectionable than the perform- 
ance of a post-mortem examination, and, like that 
scientific procedure, it is on some occasions of service, 
as I shall indicate in the proper place. 

The ancient methods of embalming, when com- 
pared with the present, were singularly rough and 
laborious. The ancients devoted days to a task which 
we can, under urgency, carry out in as many minutes. 
In the history of the art of embalming we have a 
record written four hundred and eighty-four years 



BURIAL, EMBALMING, AND CREMATION. 249 

before the commencement of the present era, that is 
to say, a record of two thousand three hundred and 
sixty-two years. This same record relates to a process 
which had been carried out, in practice, long before 
the historian penned his description, so that when we 
speak of embalming we speak of one of the earliest 
arts of civilisation. 

Embalming, as we read of it, could only have 
been carried out by a civilised people, a people that 
had some knowledge of anatomy, and a certain crude, 
but practical, knowledge of chemistry. Herodotus, 
who himself must have studied the details of the art 
with close observation, states that there were in Egypt 
in his time certain persons who were especially ap- 
pointed as embalmers, and who professed the art. 
Some have looked on these professors as priests, 
others as physicians : it is probable they followed 
both avocations. The embalmers, when their ser- 
vices were called for, showed the friends of a deceased 
person a wooden model, painted so as to represent as 
nearly as possible the original. The models were of 
three different values, and apparently of different 
solemnities. * The most perfect of the models,' says 
Herodotus, 'is asserted to be the representation of 
him whose name I take it to be impious to mention 
in this matter.' The second was less finished, and 
the third was the meanest of all. The relatives had 



250 BURIAL, EMBALMING, AND CREMATION. 

% 

to declare which of the models they chose, and they 
chose according to the price they undertook to pay. 
Then they retired, and left the body of their deceased 
friend with the embalmers. The embalmers com- 
menced their proceeding by extracting the brain of 
the dead person from the cavity of the skull, through 
the nostrils, by means of a bent iron (a hook in com- 
mon parlance), and by the infusion or pouring of 
certain drugs into the cavity of the skull. In these 
ways they removed the brain without disfiguring the 
head or face an operation which may seem difficult, 
but which, practically, would present no real difficulty 
at all when a little experience in operating had been 
acquired. The contents of the skull removed, the 
abdominal cavity was next opened with a sharp 
Ethiopic stone, and the intestines were removed. 
Herodotus does not tell us what was done with these 
internal parts, but the information is supplied by 
Porphyry, who states that the intestines were put 
into a chest, and that one of the embalmers, having 
offered up a prayer for the deceased, addressed the 
sun, the purport of the address being to signify that 
if the dead man during his lifetime had been criminal 
it must have been on account of these parts. Then 
pointing to the chest or box containing the parts, it 
was thrown into the Nile. The story is of singular 
interest, as indicating how early in the history of 



BURIAL, EMBALMING, AND CREMATION. 251 

man the idea became prevalent that the passions had 
their seats, not in the reasoning brain, but in the 
bowels. This, by the way. The narrative of Hero- 
dotus goes on to describe that, after the cavity of 
the body was emptied of its natural contents, it was 
charged with powder of pure myrrh, cassia, and other 
perfumes, but not frankincense. The body was then 
sewn up, and covered with nitre and natron for the 
space of seventy days, which time might not be 
exceeded. At the end of that period the body, 
removed, washed, and closely wrapped in bandages 
of cotton dipped in gum, which the Egyptians 
used as glue, was returned to the relations, who 
enclosed it in a case of wood, made to resemble a 
human figure. It was, finally, placed against the wall 
in the repository of the dead. 

Embalming at the present day is an exceptional 
process in England, and when we are called upon to 
perform it here, it is, in ninety-nine cases out of the 
hundred, for some one foreign to our country. I have 
embalmed many bodies, but only in two or three in- 
stances the bodies of English people, and in these ex- 
ceptional instances the deceased, although they were 
born and died in England, had lived the greater part of 
their lives abroad, and were embalmed in order to be 
conveyed to friends at a distance, who wished to bury 
them. In the United States of America the embalm- 



252 BURIAL, EMBALMING, AND CREMATION. 

ing process is carried out to a greater extent, and I 
believe the number of persons embalmed in that 
country increases every year. Hence, Americans who 
are residents here often ask to have friends or relations 
embalmed. 

The reasons assigned for embalmment are numer- 
ous, some valid, some perhaps fanciful. In most 
cases on which I have been consulted, the object of 
the embalming has been to retain the body free of 
putrefactive change long enough for it to be conveyed 
from the place where it died to some distant place 
where it is finally to be entombed. This object is in 
every sense reasonable. In other examples the em 
balming has been sought after that the relatives may 
retain the dead body as long as they can with the 
face exposed to view. For such purpose coffins of a 
special kind have to be made, in the lids of which a 
pane of glass is placed. In England these receptacles 
for the dead are not often constructed ; but in America 
they are specially constructed, and I learnt that one 
body which I embalmed in England was, on its arrival 
in America, transferred to the particular receptacle 
described, in which (with the face still perfectly pre- 
served) it is retained. 

Once I knew the embalming requested to gratify 
the last direct wish of the deceased, who feared unless 
this precaution were taken she might be buried alive. 



BURIAL, EMBALMING, AND CREMATION. 253 

It was not necessary, of course, to embalm to ensure 
against that terrible calamity, but the desire had to 
be carried out. The lady was afterwards buried in 
the usual way. 

I offer no opinion as to the propriety of embalming 
for the purposes above described. The question in- 
volved in it is one entirely of feeling. I may only 
add that the process is harmless to everybody ; it 
involves, I mean, no breach of sanitary rules if it be 
properly carried out. 

Embalming is sometimes performed on distin- 
guished persons as a supposed mark of distinction. 
For ages upon ages this intention has been acted 
upon, and has become, in a certain sense, a fashion. 
Probably, if the distinguished personages of ancient 
Egypt who were embalmed with so much care could 
have foreseen to what base uses their preserved 
remains would in the course of time come, that they 
would stand, in fact, as the shows of another civilisa- 
tion, they would have been anxious to have been 
consigned at once to the earth after their deaths, or 
even to have been resolved on the pyre. Yet to this 
intention of embalming there are two sides. To the 
historian these remains of what once were mighty 
men possess an interest of no mean character, and he 
who would wish to trace the correct line of the 
Pharaohs, regrets, I doubt not, sincerely, that the 

12 



254 BURIAL, EMBALMING, AND CREMATION. 

embalmers of these royal personages were not more 
successful in their art. It must be admitted, however, 
that this object of embalming has been abused. To 
embalm a distinguished man, that he may lie for long 
periods in the embalmer's room to be stared at by 
multitudes of people as a pseudo-scientific sight, is a 
degradation of scientific labour. 

Occasionally, the art of embalming may prove of 
service for the benefit of the public that is to say, 
for the promotion of public justice. It may be neces- 
sary to embalm a body in order that it may aftenvards 
be identified ; or it may even be necessary to preserve 
the whole or parts of a dead body in order that it, or 
they, may be submitted to analysis or other mode of 
investigation. 

There is yet another object for the public good in 
which the skill of the embalmer is useful. There are 
circumstances when it is not possible to bury a body 
immediately, and where it is necessary to keep it in 
such a state that it will neither undergo decomposition, 
nor be calculated to be injurious to the living who 
are near to it. Here it is of moment to know how 
temporarily to check the decomposition and prevent 
the diffusion of poisonous gases from that source. 

I have dwelt for a few moments on these subjects 
of embalming, without minutely arguing any point 
that may be raised upon them, in order to show that 



BURIAL, EMBALMING, AND CREMATION. 255 

the art is one that is demanded on various grounds, 
and is not likely to fall out of demand. As this is 
the undoubted fact, I think it is right for medical 
men to retain and even to cultivate the most perfect 
knowledge of the art. If they do not scientifically 
carry it out, other men, mere empirics, who know 
nothing either of chemistry or of anatomy, will at- 
tempt to do so, the public will be defrauded, and 
an art, which really rests on the purest basis of 
science, will be brought into unmerited disrepute. 

There is nothing so difficult in the process but 
that any practitioner can perform it as easily as 
he can perform a post-mortem examination. One 
quality only does it call for, and that quality is pa- 
tience. It is true that in these days the operators 
are rapid to a marvel when they are compared with 
our old friends the Egyptian embalmers. The 
moderns require hours, the ancients required days; 
but still, to embalm well, some considerable patience 
is demanded even now, notwithstanding all the 
modern knowledge and modern appliances. 

The present method of embalming is also most 
simple when it is compared with the ancient. A 
large artery of the dead body is exposed and opened, 
and into the vessel a hollow needle is inserted. 
The needle is firmly tied in its place. Through the 
needle a solution of chloride of zinc is injected slowly 



256 BURIAL, EMBALMING, AND CREMATION. 

until it has found its way over every part. The 
principal art that is required in this process is to be 
very careful not to use too much fluid, and not to use 
too much force in injecting the fluid into the tissues. 

BURIAL IN THE SEA. 

A suggested plan of burial in the deep sea carries 
with it many inducements. It insures a method for 
the immediate disposal of the dead as effective as 
cremation, in so far as the living are concerned ; and 
from what we know of it as a practice at sea, it is, to 
the mourners, as simple and inoffensive as the burial 
in the earth. It has the disadvantage that it is not 
readily available to inland populations, and that it too 
effectively disposes of the body to satisfy, in every 
case, the demands of the law. 

CREMATION AND EARTH BURIAL. 

Practically, we are at this moment driven to deal 
with cremation and burial in the earth as the two 
modes for the disposal of the dead most consonant 
with our modern civilisation. For my part, I am 
free of all personal prejudice as to these modes ; but, 
if my own feelings were really influenced, it would be 
towards cremation. I confess to feeling as the English 
lady felt, whose remains, by her own request, were 
subjected to the cinerator at Dresden, that the 



BURIAL, EMBALMING, AND CREMATION. 257 

readiest, most certain, most wholesome way of being 
disposed of after death, is to go through the fire and 
remingle with the air. What, therefore, I have to 
say in respect to this method and its relative value 
will be based on what seems to me the true scientific 
and legal aspects of the question. 

Speaking, in this sense alone, of cremation, while 
I admit for it that it is quite practicable as a general 
process, and as free from any, except morbid, ob- 
jections in matter of feeling, and, as a sanitary 
measure excellent, there are against it two objections 
which seem to me so powerful as to render it difficult 
of introduction, for general application. 

The first of the grand objections to cremation has 
been advanced with great force and effect by Pro- 
fessor Mohr. It is that if the process were univer- 
sally adopted and if all animal remains passed, for 
ultimate destruction as organic matter, into the hands 
of the cremator, the organic world would lose one of 
its important constituents. If cremation is to be 
adopted there must, he urges, and indeed all admit 
this argument, there must be such complete combus- 
tion that not a trace of organic vapour or gas can 
escape from the retort. Any trace of odours and 
foetid compounds escaping from the retort, anything 
in the nature of a distillation, would be so revolting 
that no one would tolerate the procedure, and no idea 



258 BURIAL, EMBALMING, AND CREMATION. 

of value from the products thus given off would com- 
pensate for the moral objections that would be made. 
To produce the perfect combustion the temperature 
must be raised to a degree that shall render the com- 
bustion final. The very gases that are evolved from 
the burning of the body must pass through heated 
earthenware lattice-work, so that they may be trans- 
formed into what can fairly be designated true inor- 
ganic parts. Nothing must remain but carbonic acid, 
nitrogen, water, and ash. 

In this complete combustion there is the widest 
possible departure from the mode in which nature, by 
her own processes, disposes of dead animal matter. 
Her plan is to produce, in the course of decay, second- 
ary or intermediate products which shall again prove 
of service to the vegetable and, through the vegetable, 
to the animal kingdom. One of these products, the 
staple of the vegetable kingdom, is that combination 
of hydrogen and nitrogen known as ammonia. As 
yet we have in chemistry no artistic synthesis of this 
body by which it can be made available for the pur- 
poses of organic growth, and so we depend for the 
natural development of it, we may say exclusively, 
upon the natural decomposition of dead animal 
organic remains. What, therefore, would be the 
ultimate fate of the living organic world if the whole 
of the dead organic matter derived from the bodies 



BURIAL, EMBALMING, AND CREMATION. 259 

of the dead were swept at once by intense heat into 
inorganic compounds which have no sustaining pro- 
perty for the vegetable kingdom ? In the simple 
natural process the intermediate product, the am- 
monia resulting from decomposition, escapes into the 
air or is washed into the soil, is absorbed by the 
plants, is transformed into nitrogenous tissue by them, 
and becomes in turn available as food for animals. 
By this wise and provident means a continuous circu- 
lation of ammonia between the animal and the vege- 
table kingdoms is sustained. If we were to stop the 
supplies thus afforded, we should disturb the natural 
balance, and should so draw upon the ammonia capital 
of the globe, that in the course of time, if the spend- 
thrift proceeding were kept up, the loss that would be 
sustained could not but be felt through the whole of 
the animal kingdom, and could not but lead to a 
reduction of animal life. In the case of the loss of 
ammonia the mischief is inconceivable. There is 
here no order of compensation going on in nature, as 
in the process for the renewal of atmospheric oxygen 
to breathing animals, but the deduction is from a 
finite quantity, and the descendants of the present 
races would have to bear, should we subject them 
to the ordeal by our short-sighted policy, the evil of 
our error as we have now to endure the results of the 
folly of our ancestors who ruthlessly cut down vast 



260 BURIAL, EMBALMING, AND CREMATION. 

forests, thereby incurring the penalties of drought 
in some regions and of flood and inundation in 
others. 

What is more, in the act and art of cremation we 
incur a second evil of deduction from a finite quan- 
tity. To cremate we must employ fire : to employ 
fire is to deduct so much from the finite materials 
which give forth heat. In a word, we must burn the 
candle at both ends, and have no manner of compen- 
sation beyond the present satisfaction rendered to a 
few minds, from the favour or caprice of a fashion, 
that defies natural capital and natural law. 

There is, however, another side to this question of 
economy of the resources of nature which should in 
fairness be put forward. Sir Henry Thompson sees 
in the application of the bone ash of the burned dead 
what we may call a ' quid pro quo ' for loss entailed 
by other means. That we may miss no point of this 
able argument, I give this author's view in full. Let 
us, he asks, glance at the economic view of the subject 
of cremation. 

" It is not so important as, unconsidered, it may 
appear. For it is an economic subject whether we 
will it or not. No doubt a sentiment repugnant to 
any such view must arise in many minds, a sentiment 
altogether to be held in respect and sympathy. Be 
it so ; the question remains strictly a question of prime 



BURIAL, EMBALMING, AND CREMATION. 261 

necessity in the economic system of a crowded 
country. Nature will have it so, whether we like it 
or not. She destines the material elements of my 
body to enter the vegetable world on purpose to 
supply another animal organism which takes my 
place. She wants me, and I must go. There is no 
help for it. When shall I follow with quick obedi- 
ence, or unwillingly, truant-like, traitor-like, to her 
and her grand design ? Her capital is intended to 
bear good interest and to yield quick return : all her 
ways prove it 'increase and multiply' is her first 
and constant law. Shall her riches be hid in earth, to 
corrupt and bear no present fruit ; or be utilised 
without loss of time, value, and interest, for the 
benefit of starving survivors ? Nature hides no 
talent in a napkin ; we, her unprofitable servants 
only, thwart her ways and delay the consummation of 
her will. 

" Is a practical illustration required ? Nothing is 
easier. London was computed, by the census of 
1871, to contain 3,254,260 persons, of whom 80,430 
died within the year. I have come to the conclusion, 
after a very carefully made estimate, that the amount 
of ashes and bone earth, such as is derived by perfect 
combustion, belonging to and buried with those 
persons, is by weight about 206,820 Ibs. The pecuni- 
ary value of this highly concentrated form of animal 



262 BURIAL, EMBALMING, AND CREMATION. 

solids is very considerable. For this bone-earth may 
be regarded as equivalent to at least six or seven 
times its weight of dried but unburned bones, as they 
ordinarily exist in commerce. The amount of other 
solid matters resolvable by burning into the gaseous 
food of plants, but rendered unavailable by burial 
for, say, fifty or a hundred years or more, is about 
5,584,000 Ibs., the value of which is quite incalculable, 
but it is certainly enormous as compared with the 
preceding. 

" This is for the population of the metropolis only : 
that of the United Kingdom for the same year 
amounted to 31,483,700 persons, or nearly ten times 
the population of London. Taking into consideration 
a somewhat lower death-rate for the imperial average, 
it will at all events be quite within the limit of truth- 
ful statement to multiply the above quantities by nine 
in order to obtain the amount of valuable economic 
material annually diverted in the United Kingdom 
for a long term of years from its ultimate destiny by 
our present method of interment. 

" The necessary complement of this ceaseless 
waste of commodity most precious to organic life, 
and which must be replaced, or the population could 
not exist, is the purchase by this country of that 
same material from other countries less populous 
than our own, and which can, therefore, at present 



BURIAL, EMBALMING, AND CREMATION. 263 

spare it. This we do to the amount of much more 
than half a million pounds sterling per annum. 

" Few persons, I believe, have any notions that 
these importations of foreign bones are rendered 
absolutely necessary by the hoarding of our own 
some six feet below the surface. The former we 
acquire at a large cost for the original purchase and 
for freight. The latter we place, not in the upper 
soil where they would be utilised, but in the lower 
soil, where they are not merely useless, but where 
they often mingle with and pollute the streams which 
furnish our tables. And in order to effect this absurd, 
if not wicked result, we incur a lavish expenditure ! 
I refer, of course, to the enormous sums which are 
wasted in effecting burial according to our present 
custom a part of the question which can by no 
means be passed over. For the funeral rites of the 
80,000 in London last year, let a mean cost of ten 
pounds per head be accepted as an estimate, which 
certainly does not err on the side of excess. Eight 
hundred thousand pounds must therefore be reckoned 
as absolute loss to the costs already incurred, in the 
maintenance of the system. Thus we pay every way 
and doubly for our folly. 

" The problem to be worked is Given a dead body, 
to resolve it into carbonic acid, water, and ammonia, 



264 BURIAL, EMBALMING, AND CREMATION. 

and the mineral elements, rapidly, safely, and not 
unpleasantly." 

With this proposition I entirely concur. It is in 
truth tJie problem. My argument is that the problem 
is not solved by the process of cremation. 

It is perfectly clear that the error which the 
advocates of cremation fall into when they advance 
the economical side of the question is twofold at 
least. They obviously overlook, in the first place, the 
all-important fact that by the very perfection of their 
art they break up the most valuable of the products 
of natural decomposition, viz. the ammonia. If they 
did not succeed so far, their process would give rise to 
the emanation and distribution of vapours that would 
be detected by the smell, and the success of perfect 
purity to every sense which they claim to have 
attained would be utterly forfeited. On this ground, 
consequently, the economy they assert is not main- 
tainable in the controversy. The process is one of 
the direst waste, for by it the very organic matter of 
the skeleton, which is so valuable as an ammonia- 
yielding product, is resolved into its primary parts, 
its nitrogenous plant-forming value unredeemed. 

In the next place an error not less important, 
and exceedingly obvious, creeps into the advocacy, 
when the subject of the value of the bone-earth comes 
before us. No one would deny the value of the bone- 



BURIAL, EMBALMING, AND CREMATION. 265 

earth as a fertilising substance, and no one would 
deny, we presume, that in cremation the inorganic 
bone-dust is very effectively preserved. But it is not 
easy to see how this precious material precious as a 
relic of the dead, precious as manure, can act both 
kinds of preciousness at one and the same time. I 
mean by this that if it be stowed away in an urn it 
cannot fertilise the earth. I allow that in due course 
of time it will by chance of fate come at last to the 
earth, and therefore will not be lost. Here the 
cremationists are right ; but they are wrong, and in 
this their second great economical error lies, that they 
consider themselves performing a novel and wonder- 
fully saving plan by burning instead of burying dead 
bones. As if bones did not resolve in the earth ! As 
if the phosphorus and lime which make up the in- 
organic residue of bone-matter could ever be lost by 
the act of banking it in the place from whence it 
came! We need push the argument no further. 
The man that burns a bone and puts the ash in an 
urn is certainly not doing more for the earth than the 
man who directly restores the bone to the earth. 
The difference simply is, that the first is a miser, the 
second a prudent husbandman. 

Looking at the subject of cremation, then, from 
these points of view, looking at it as a conservator 
or a destroyer of the natural order of events, and of 



266 BURIAL, EMBALMING, AND CREMATION. 

material changes, I hold it to be a failure in relation 
to natural economy. 

The second grand objection to cremation is of a 
different order; and although in course of time it 
might lose its force, it is at present potent in the first 
degree. The objection is medico-legal. It is urged 
that if a body destroyed intentionally by poison, or 
by any other secret and unlawful means, could be 
carried straightway to the furnace, and, in the course 
of an hour could be resolved into its all but ele- 
mentary form, the course of justice would constantly 
be arrested ; and, not to mince the matter, the cre- 
mator would not unfrequently be the unwitting slave 
and instrument of the murderer. 

The difficulty in way of cremation, from the risk 
above stated, is not ignored by the cremationists. 
They treat it as ' an episode ' in the discussion, a 
mode of treatment ingeniously expressed, but indif- 
ferently reasoned. Sir Henry Thompson would meet 
this difficulty by having appointed over the dead a 
new officer, a sort of universal omnipresent coroner, 
who should take the place of the 'Medecin Veri- 
ficateur ' of Paris, without whose permission no burial 
whatever can take place. In cases where there 
existed any doubt as to the cause of death he (Sir 
Henry) would take a strong precautionary measure. 
He would have the stomach and a portion of the 



BURIAL, EMBALMING, AND CREMATION. 267 

viscera preserved, say for fifteen or twenty years, 
or thereabouts, so that, in the event of any suspicion 
subsequently occurring, greater facility for examina- 
tion would exist than by the present method of 
exhumation. 

I need not dwell at any length on these proposi- 
tions. In this country, where the coroner has even 
now so much to contend with in conducting his com- 
paratively simple inquiries, simple, I mean, in so 
far as the liberty of the subject is concerned, the 
'Me'decin Verificateur ' would indeed stand a poor 
chance of being able to carry out his onerous duty. 
Here, in fact, such an officer and such an office 
would be utterly impossible, because repugnant to 
the genius of the people. The second proposition, that 
in suspected cases of poisoning portions of the dead 
body should be kept in terrorem over the heads of 
persons, known or unknown, who were guilty of 
murder, is even more inconceivable than the first. 
Where would such relics be stowed ? How would the 
continuance of their identity be maintained ? How 
could it be proved that in the course of ' fifteen or 
twenty years, or thereabouts,' between the times when 
they were stowed away and the times when they were 
taken put to be analysed, they had been free of all 
possible chance of contamination ? More than this, 
when a body has to be exhumed there is probability 



268 BURIAL, EMBALMING, AND CREMATION. 

that the person or persons suspected of foul play may 
have succeeded in getting the body buried before the 
suspicion occurred. If, then, such cunning and wicked 
persons could succeed in committing the body to the 
earth, could they not, under the proposed new system, 
succeed also in committing it to the fire, and, if they 
did succeed, of what value were the analytical skill 
that has so frequently, under the present system, led to 
the detection of crime ? I speak with no diffidence, 
because it is my duty to speak with earnestness, 
and my privilege to speak with the authority of 
forensic knowledge, on this subject ; and I affirm that 
in the present social state the introduction of crema- 
tion as a general system of disposal of the dead would 
be a direct and effective incentive to the perpetration 
of the most hideous of crimes. Let no man deceive 
himself or others on an issue so solemn. The living 
world is not yet sufficiently purified in its soul to 
be permitted to purify itself from its dead tenements 
of soul, by the unanswerable fire. 

So I come at last back to the old old story. The 
earth gave up to us from itself the substance of our 
corporeal organisation, the earth demands the sub- 
stance back again. This is the order of nature, and 
to fight against the fact is waste both of word and 
labour. On the line with nature we may improve as 
we like to invent is impossible and remain secure. 



BURIAL, EMBALMING, AND CREMATION. 269 

Off the line we may make a noise, and astonish the 
mere lookers-on, but go straight away we cannot. It 
is open to us to improve the process of burial, and 
many of the plans which have recently been suggested 
are deserving of our best consideration. The sugges- 
tions to burial boards issued by the inspector under 
the Burial Acts indicate on every page the desire to 
introduce every available improvement, and I do not 
doubt but that the controversy on cremation will tend 
to direct public opinion in the right way to improve- 
ments in the art of burial. To these advancements 
I have still to refer in detail. 

We have already considered what would be the 
best character of soil in which to place the dead. 
To understand the practical value of those sugges- 
tions, and the reforms that would have to take place 
before they can be carried out, it is necessary to re- 
call the views which are entertained by our Govern- 
ment authorities who hold office under the Burial 
Acts. The report of the very able Inspector under 
the Burial Acts, Mr. Holland, comes before us with 
great effect at this point of our subject ; and if my 
readers have not had an opportunity of studying the 
official suggestions that have been supplied, I shall be 
rendering a service by devoting a few paragraphs to 
them. In speaking of the character of the soils of 
bury ing-grounds as a subject of great importance, the 



270 BURIAL, EMBALMING, AND CREMATION. 

Inspector says that " dry, open soils which readily 
admit air and moisture, allowing the rain which falls 
upon the surface to enter readily, carrying air down 
with it, facilitate decay, and permit graves to be sooner 
re-opened for subsequent interments. Porous soils, 
mixed with vegetable mould, absorb and decompose 
the products of decay, and prevent the escape of 
injurious emanations, if the quantity of animal matter 
be not too large in proportion to the area, and if the 
soil near the coffin be left undisturbed until decom- 
position is completed. Dense clay soils are in all 
respects undesirable ; they exclude air and moisture, 
retard decomposition, and render it improper to 
reopen a grave, to nearly its original depth, within 
any reasonable period. In some such soils coffins 
have remained undecayed for thirty years or more, 
and therefore graves in such soils can be used a very 
limited number of times only. They are, moreover, 
expensive to drain ; they retain the gases of decom- 
position, and sometimes crack, possibly allowing 
dangerous exhalations to escape. It is so difficult 
and expensive to remedy these defects, that it is 
better to select an open than a clay soil, even though 
the site be moderately more distant, or more costly. 
In some such cases the plan has been adopted of 
enclosing separately every coffin buried in concrete or 
cemented stone or brick-work, the extra cost of which 



BURIAL, EMBALMING, AND CREMATION. 271 

is to be set against the diminished cost of less excava- 
tion, and less rapid filling of space. 

" Soils which have no proper mould, and which 
consist chiefly of stone, may allow of the passage of 
undecomposed emanations, and it is difficult and 
expensive to supply the mould in which they are 
deficient. It is always desirable, before deciding 
upon a site, to have the soil examined in various 
places to the depth of at least eight feet." 

Much attention has been paid to the planting of 
burial-places, and we know that now, in the cemeteries 
near to our large towns, considerable taste is shown 
both in fencing, planting, and cultivating vegetation. 
In his supplementary report on the practice of inter- 
ments in towns, Mr. Loudon recommends for ceme- 
teries " trees chiefly of the fastigiate, pointed, growing 
kinds, which neither cover a large space with their 
branches nor give too much shade when the sun 
shines, and which admit light and air to neutralise 
any mephitic effluvia. Of these, there are the oriental 
arbor vitae, the evergreen cypress, the Swedish and 
Irish juniper, &c. For the same reason, trees of the 
conical forms, such as the red cedar, and various 
pines and firs, are desirable. In advantageously 
situated cemeteries, some of the larger trees, such as 
the cedar of Lebanon, the oriental plane, the purple 
beech, the dark yew, and the flowering ash, sycamore, 



272 BURIAL, EMBALMING, AND CREMATION. 

mountain ash, holly, thorn, and some species of oak, 
as the Italian oak, with flowering trees and shrubs, 
would find places in due proportion." 

I have suggested that under a perfect system 
of burial, there would be demanded a modification 
of the present plan of planting the cemetery. My 
recommendations, which are not very different from 
those of Mr. Loudon, are to surround the place with 
trees, not too thickly set, and that to plant small and 
handsome trees in different parts of the grounds by 
the side walks and in odd spots where the earth 
remains undisturbed, would be unobjectionable. The 
rugged elm and yew tree's shade might still encircle 
the homes of the dead, but inasmuch as the earth in 
which the burials are made should be a moveable 
earth, it would be impossible, except in particular 
instances, to plant over any one body any special or 
lasting tree or shrub. The ground, levelled at once 
after burial, should be covered with rapidly growing 
vegetation ; such quick-growing grasses as can be 
mown and utilised either as food for the herbivorous 
animals or as manure for other land. Thus the pro- 
ducts of decomposition from the dead, which by 
diffusion would find their way to the surface, would 
be removed, by their transformation into new forms 
of matter, as rapidly as they were evolved and dis- 
tributed. 



BURIAL, EMBALMING, AND CREMATION. 273 

Mr. Holland, who also favours the planting of 
evergreen and quick-growing trees in cemeteries, 
supplies useful directions on the position the trees 
and shrubs should hold in the grounds. It is of 
importance, he tells us, " that trees and shrubs should 
not cover too large a portion of the burial-ground, 
and that they should not be too closely planted, or 
should be thinned out as they grow large, to avoid 
interfering with the ventilation and with the free 
passage of air. A suitable disposal of trees or shrubs 
along roads or pathways would afford shelter to per- 
sons visiting graves, and to funeral processions. It 
is customary in well-regulated cemeteries to avoid 
burying close to the boundary fence. On many 
accounts this is advisable, as there is no law to 
prevent houses being built and wells sunk close to 
a burial-ground ; there is, moreover, a disposition to 
erect houses in the vicinity of ornamental cemeteries. 
Much of the evil may be prevented by draining the 
ground in such a manner as to prevent the water 
passing into the subsoil of the neighbourhood, and by 
the adoption of proper regulations as to burial ; but 
it would nevertheless be advisable to leave a belt of 
land for planting between the fence and the nearest 
graves. This strip of ground would not be wasted, 
for part of it might be used as a walk, and part for 
ornamental shrubs. A surrounding belt of shrubbery 



274 BURIAL, EMBALMING, AND CREMATION. 

would contribute to the seclusion of the ground, and 
need not be so close as to check too much the free 
passage of air." 

It happens in some localities, that these require- 
ments for particular soils and vegetations are next to 
impossible of fulfilment. The carboniferous soil does 
not exist near to the communities for which it is re- 
quired, and in the hard clayey bed of earth which is 
alone obtainable the resolution of the dead body is 
long delayed. Cemeteries fixed in such grounds are 
of all the most difficult to keep in proper condition, 
and many schemes in the way of draining have been 
proposed in vain. If any cemeteries are actually 
dangerous to the community these are, and so long as 
the cemetery system lasts, they will remain an equal 
trouble to the sanitarian and the engineer. 

The best mode of burying in such localities is 
probably one which I indicated twenty years ago in 
the * Journal of Public Health and Sanitary Review.' 
This consists in enveloping the dead in a layer of 
charcoal, a process which is, in matter of fact, nothing 
more 'nor less than a slow combustion. As a proof of 
the effects of charcoal in this respect it is recorded 
that the Messrs. Turnbull, the well-known manufac- 
turers of charcoal in Glasgow, made the experiment 
of burying a horse. They surrounded the carcase of 
the animal with eight inches of charcoal, and dis- 



BURIAL, EMBALMING, AND CREMATION. 275 

covered that every portion of the carcase, except the 
skeleton, was destroyed within twelve months. They 
observed that during the whole of this time there was 
no trace of deleterious exhalation from the decom- 
posing body ; and they further observed that moisture 
from rain did not materially modify the destructive 
process. After reading the particulars of this experi- 
ment, I confirmed it on a smaller scale, by burying 
smaller dead animals in charcoal. Dr. Stenhouse has 
stated that peat charcoal would answer for the same 
purpose, and that the reduction of it to a state of fine 
division is not necessary. 

Since the above-named proposition was made in 
1855, the system advocated has many times been 
carried out, and I believe with success. The difficul- 
ties of its extension have arisen from the circum- 
stances that the introduction of peat charcoal into 
common use has been much less easy than was 
originally anticipated, and that the price of ordinary 
vegetable charcoal has considerably increased. These 
difficulties, I fear, are not likely to be lessened in the 
future. 

As we glance over what has recently been written, 
and take a final survey of the whole question before us, 
we are brought sharply to the conclusion that after 
all there is nothing that is new ; nothing on which 



276 BURIAL, EMBALMING, AND CREMATION. 

we are able to form any conclusion of a novel charac- 
ter ; nothing that strikingly indicates a great revolu- 
tion in modes of disposal of the dead. Cremation, 
with all the fascinations of science which surround it, 
and with all the advantages which science lends for 
its development, is, as we have seen, simply impos- 
sible as a general principle, at this imperfect stage 
of civilisation. It may one day take a prominent 
place, and it might, under an exceedingly wise 
legislative supervision, be permitted in this country 
even in this day. 

I do not myself see, why the person who should 
wish to be subjected to cremation after death, should be 
denied the desire. But in every case where permission 
for cremation is granted by the State, the most strin- 
gent preliminary enquiry as to the cause of death should 
be instituted, either by the Coroner, the Procurator 
Fiscal, or some other competent public officer who 
could fully and satisfactorily testify to the cause and 
natural character of the death of the body about to 
be subjected to the cremation. 

In the matter of burials in the earth I am con- 
vinced that steady improvements will continue. No 
one who recalls the old and loathsome grave-yards, 
and who contrasts these with the new and beautiful 
cemeteries which chasten and even adorn our towns 
and villages, can doubt that since the days of Mr. 



BURIAL, EMBALMING, AND CREMATION. 277 

Walker's magnificent protest against the existence of 
grave-yards in the midst of the living, advancements 
have been made which that ardent reformer could 
hardly have anticipated. What, therefore, may be 
the greater advancements in coming years, when 
the public mind is being directed to and led into a 
study which it has previously avoided rather than 
courted, it is impossible to say. But the duty of 
the man of science, in his capacity as a practical 
teacher of the people, is clear. It is his duty, with- 
out too severely wounding deeply-rooted prejudices,- 
which after all have their origin in the sentiments of 
reverence and affection, to teach that nature de- 
mands for the perpetuation of the living present, not 
the far removal, but the quick return of the dead 
body into the mother earth ; that the world of life, 
constructed from a limited supply of matter, rebuilds 
itself out of the quarry of death ; and, that every plan 
which has for its object the restoration of the body 
to the earth, with the least possible interruption to the 
ordination of nature, should be accepted as the wisest 
plan, the best for the present, the best also for the 
future generations of mankind. 



13 



VIII. 
THE REGISTRATION OF DISEASE. 

T N order to arrive at a correct knowledge of the 
* causes of the diseases of the community, and to 
see the way clearly and scientifically to the preven- 
tion of disease, the first great step consists in securing 
systematic and widely-extended tables of facts bear- 
ing on the existence of particular diseases, occurring 
at the same periods, in different localities, and under 
differing social conditions. This method of research 
would apply to all diseases, to those which are fixed 
amongst us, such as cancer and consumption, and to 
those which are recurrent, such as measles, scarlet 
fever, and small-pox. 

But, in recognising the necessity for the registra- 
tion of all the diseases that afflict humanity, I do not 
think it a practical plan to broach the idea of a system 
of registration which should at once attempt to 
embrace diseases in their universality. I consider 
that registration will commence best by a plan that 



THE REGISTRATION OF DISEASE. 279 

shall confine the labour to disorders of a transitory 
and migratory character, I mean to disorders of the 
epidemic class. 

These last-named affections offer themselves - 
primarily to our consideration owing to the facts that 
they present an acuteness of outline and a demon- 
stration which are peculiarly marked ; they thus 
attract more immediate attention and become objects 
for contemplation to all practitioners of medical 
science, and not to these only, but to the public at 
large. I wish it to be understood, therefore, that in this 
communication I shall consider the question of regis- 
tration in its simple application to epidemic affections. 

For the sake of order, I will classify the subject- 
matter to be submitted under the following heads : 

I. The study of epidemic diseases. 

II. Method of registration, its principles and 

v 

objects. 

III. The attempts that have been made to esta- 
blish a method of registration. 

IV. A plan for the complete registration of these 
diseases in England. 

I. In the study of epidemic diseases we observe 
(however widely we may extend the list of the 
diseases) a unity, presenting a variety of phenomena. 
This is the fact first to be learned in our present 
study. 



2So THE REGISTRATION OF DISEASE. 

M. Jules Guerin, in the Memoirs of the Imperial 
Academy of Medicine for 1853 and 1854, admirably 
remarks, " that the study of epidemics, submitted as 
yet to too few regulations, and left too much to in- 
dividual choice, has never rendered the service it is 
capable of yielding to science and to mankind. 

" Considered in their highest characteristics, epi- 
demics are the great manifestations of a sole and 
identical cause which impresses a uniform and well- 
marked character on all its products, leaving to 
surrounding actions only a limited and secondary 
influence. 

" It results from this predominance of the great 
epidemical cause, that all the diseased individualities 
in the same epidemic have a general and principal 
resemblance, and exhibit only particular and accessory 
differences. 

"As a consequence of this general proposition, 
epidemics become immense centres of observation, 
in which the extent, number, and diversity of the 
facts, and the variable conditions of their manifesta- 
tions, are constantly throwing light upon the most 
obscure problems of disease. That which is only 
seen imperfectly, or in separate letters, in occasional 
diseases, may be read in large characters and entire 
words during epidemic visitations. The cause of the 
occasional disease is almost always feeble and isolated ; 



THE REGISTRATION OF DISEASE. 281 

and dividing its influence with the ordinary producing 
conditions of age, sex, constitution, and season, it 
gives rise to mixed and ill-characterised products, the 
comparison of which is a matter of difficulty. In a 
word, in occasional diseases the elements of uniformity 
are almost equally balanced by those of diversity, and 
the products are as the factors. In epidemics the 
essential cause is one and absolute, and of sufficient 
energy to take the lead. In the presence of these 
grand manifestations the mind requires to make 
scarcely any effort to seize at once and to compass in 
its entirety that which observation in ordinary diseases 
is obliged to seek, from its useful auxiliaries, analysis, 
comparison, and enumeration." 

That which M. Gue*rin has here so ably written I 
would fully indorse. It is and must be clear to every 
thinking mind, that these great visitations of disease 
which ever and anon enter our homes, shaping the 
same course, presenting the same general features, 
destroying, on an average, the same numbers of 
persons, and passing away, as it were, in disciplined 
order, offer marks for the scientific inquirer, which 
ought at once to be read off by him, and to suggest 
to him how such grand and steadily governed armies 
of disease may be arrested in their march or even 
annihilated altogether. 

But, when we look round at the progress which 



282 THE REGISTRATION OF DISEASE. 

has been made, and is being made, towards the perfect 
comprehension of these disorders, we see no system 
as yet, developed or developing, that promises any- 
thing like a successful attainment of objects as bene- 
ficent as they are great The majority of observers, 
indifferent as to causes of disease, are content to rest 
their exertions on the remedial department of their 
art in curing those conditions which ought never to 
have been permitted ; whilst others, who look for 
causes and study prevention, are carried away by 
their own thoughts and experiences. Possessing no 
common language, guided by no standard, working by 
no system, their labours are confined to their indi- 
vidual intellects. They leave behind no data from 
which others may make a start, and offer no sug- 
gestive thought which their followers may work out 
to a solution. Nor are these the only shortcomings : 
there is another, having reference to the periods 
during which the disease should be studied, of no 
small moment. 

The study of an epidemic admits of being pursued 
at two different times ; first, when the epidemic is 
present and is supplying data ; second, when it has 
passed and the data have been supplied. Unless this 
division of labour is introduced into the work, no or- 
ganised system of observation will prove of avail. I 
believe, indeed, that half the want of success that has 



THE REGISTRATION OF DISEASE. 283 

appeared in the study of epidemic diseases has arisen 
from the fact, that by the majority of observers the 
diseases are only thought worthy of consideration at 
such times as they are present. Hence we see, during 
a serious epidemic visitation, all thoughts roused and 
every eye observing ; but no sooner has the visitation 
fled by, than, as if wearied outright by the duties of 
the task, all thought rests and every eye sleeps. 

I need not say to what an extent this mode of con- 
ducting an inquiry is hasty, fretful, and useless ; but I 
would, for the sake of instituting a striking contrast 
and result, add this observation, that if the eclipses 
of the sun or moon had always been observed in the 
same manner as physicians have observed recurring 
diseases, the nature of an eclipse would have remained 
as yet an unsolved problem. Taken simply as a 
natural phenomenon, an eclipse resembles an epidemic 
in many particulars : it comes suddenly, it conveys to 
the unlearned the idea of irregularity, it lasts only for 
a limited period, it rouses the fears of the common 
mind to the fullest extent ; and amongst those who 
do not understand the subject in its simple, true 
form, every kind of vague and absurd theory is set up 
in reference to its causes. It is obvious, however, 
that the mere observance of an eclipse, per se, could 
never have explained the reason of its appearance, 
and have proved the truth of that reasoning, by the 



284 THE REGISTRATION OF DISEASE. 

prediction of a recurrence of the same phenomenon. 
More was required, (a.) The facts of the phenomenon 
had to be taken at the time, (b.) The reason of the 
phenomenon had to be collected from more general 
observations and relationships, from after study, and 
from a comprehension of the order and plan of the 
stellar universe as a whole. 

In instituting this comparison between an astrono- 
mical and an epidemiological inquiry, I do not wish 
to lay down an absolute parallelism. I know, indeed, 
that such does not exist. But there is an analogy in 
the two studies; and my object is to show, that the 
time in which an epidemic is present is not the only 
time when such epidemic admits of being studied ; 
nay, that the discovery of the laws of an epidemic 
visitation can only be attempted properly when the 
epidemic is fairly past, and when the facts which it 
has presented are fully laid out before the reasoner. 

II. In instituting a method for the registration of 
disease, two objects must be kept fully in view. The 
first is the collection of all the facts relating to any 
current epidemic. The second consists in the classi- 
fication, analysis and computation of the facts col- 
lected. In pursuance of the first of these endeavours 
four elements are required : 

I. The whole competent mental strength of the 
district or country in which the epidemic exists. 



THE REGISTRATION OF DISEASE. 285 

2. Uniformity in the system of observation. 

3. A ready and easy mode of recording observa- 
tions. 

4. A properly constituted plan, by which the facts 
observed may be collected and prepared for subjec- 
tion to analysis and induction. 

In pursuance of the second great object a central 
authority is necessary. This authority, whether con- 
sisting of one man aided by an efficient staff, or of a 
board, ought to exist independently of the observers 
of the facts. The duty of this central authority 
would consist simply in analysing everything that 
was put before it, irrespective of all theories or 
suggestions. It should be composed of men well 
conversant with mathematical science, and who 
should have no other labours on their hands except 
those peculiar to their office as registrars of facts. 

III. Attempts to effect a registration of disease 
have as yet failed. They have indeed been very few 
in number, many of them have been indifferently 
organised, and all of them have been miserably 
encouraged by the public and even by the scientific 
world itself. In France the State has physicians 
whose business it is to visit any place where an 
epidemic is raging, and to report the facts observed to 
the Minister of Agriculture and Commerce. But that 
any law relating to the diseases should be educed 



286 THE REGISTRATION OF DISEASE. 

from this plan is impossible, for the inspection is only 
made at particular periods, and then imperfectly. I 
believe, also, that the attempt, as it is carried out, 
leads to much jealousy between the physicians sent 
by the Government and the local practitioners. 

In Germany, efforts at registration have been 
made by private societies of scientific men ; but 
never to continue long in organisation and action. 

In England, the Epidemiological Society, cer- 
tainly one of the most useful scientific bodies, has 
made attempts, admirable in their way, to gather the 
particulars of special epidemics, such as cholera and 
diphtheria. 

For a short time the Medical Officers of Health in 
London tried to establish a registration system, and 
with some success ; but their efforts have now ceased. 

To a certain limited extent the very valuable 
mortality returns of the Registrar-General have 
operated as a registration of disease. These returns 
are admirable as showing, on a grand scale, the 
mortality of epidemics, their prevalence, their course, 
their effects on the sexes, their relationships to season, 
and, it may be in an imperfect manner, their con- 
nection with meteorological conditions. Still, the 
returns are only useful, absolutely, as regards mor- 
tality. This, their original object, is their only direct 
good. They exhibit accurately the balance paid over 



THE REGISTRATION OF DISEASE. 287 

by disease to death, but not that which is paid over 
by health to disease. 

In 1854, an endeavour was commenced in the 
'Journal of the British Medical Association* to 
register diseases as occurring in connection with 
meteorological phenomena. Several stations of ob- 
servation were appointed, and for some years, returns 
were supplied and published week by week. The 
scheme was good, but was too special in its intention. 
It ceased before any definite results were obtained. 

The immense works, the Census of Disease in 
Ireland, may be looked on as connected with the 
registration of disease, as they have more than once 
supplied the facts of the amount and character of the 
diseases present on one given day in a country the 
social position of which was being chronicled at the 
same moment. But the information thus gathered, all- 
important as a standard, was struck out too suddenly 
to admit of analysis, as from a register of the progress 
of the disorders specified. 

The history of the various attempts at registration 
of disease by other observers thus glanced at, I pass 
to notice my own experience of an attempt in the same 
direction, which, commencing in 1855, was carried on, 
without intermission, for four years. 

The results of this attempt were published regu- 
larly each quarter in the pages of the * Sanitary 



233 THE REGISTRATION OF DISEASE. 

Review ' : at one time as many as fifty fellow-labour- 
ers were working with me in the inquiry ; and as the 
organisation was carefully laid, and the labour was 
sustained much longer, and on a larger scale, than in 
any previous attempt, I hope it may be acceptable to 
the reader to receive in outline an account of the 
plan on which the registration was carried on, of the 
working of the plan, and of the reason why it ceased. 
My first endeavour was to obtain a certain num- 
ber of stations in different parts of the country, and 
to supply to one or more of the resident medical men 
forms of returns in which they could note the current 
diseases. The first difficulty consisted in securing 
willing and competent observers, and this was great. 
However, in the latter part of 1854, 1 had the nucleus 
of a staff, and was able to receive reports from 
twelve stations viz., Hastings, Bridgewater, Canter- 
bury, Wanstead, Putney, Swansea, Saffron Walden, 
Bedford, Thetford, Nottingham, Hawarden, and 
Gainsborough. The observer in every case was a 
medical man enjoying a large share of practice, and 
possessing opportunities for knowing of the existence 
of any disease which might occur near to him. All 
were requested to confine their observation to the 
following allied disorders: Scarlet fever, measles, 
small-pox, hooping-cough, croup, catarrh, influenza, 
erysipelas, cholera, ague, remittent fever, diarrhoea, 
dysentery, typhus, puerperal fever, and carbuncle. 



THE REGISTRATION OF DISEASE. 289 

To make their observations uniform, each observer 
was supplied quarterly with a sheet of which the 
following is a specimen : 

' Sanitary Review ' Local Report of Epidemic 
and Endemic Diseases. 

INSTRUCTIONS FOR FILLING UP THE RETURN. 

The object of this Return is to show what epidemic 
diseases have been present in certain localities during 
given periods of time. It is hoped that, from a collected 
series of these observations, taken in different parts 
of the kingdom at similar periods, much light may be 
thrown on the origin and progress of epidemics. 

The mode of filling up the Table is simple. 
Each observer will, at the end of every week, place 
in its proper column a cross ( x ) opposite the name of 
such of the diseases mentioned as may have occurred 
in that period within the sphere of his observation. 

As it is the object of the return to ascertain the 
presence of the disease named, rather than the num- 
ber of cases, the occurrence of even a single case 
should be chronicled. But, observers who may wish 
to notice other important facts, such as the extent 
and mortality of an epidemic, its mode of origin or 
importation, meteorological phenomena, &c., may do 
so in the blank space headed ' Additional Observa- 



THE REGISTRATION OF DISEASE. 



tions.' Observers will please return the Report, 
punctually, on the first days of March, June, Septem- 
ber, and December. 

Place of Observation . 

Latitude 



Longitude 



Quarter ending 



Week ending. . , ' 
















i. Scarlet Fever . . 
















2. Measles . 
















3. Small-pox 
















4. Hooping Cough 
















5. Croup . *.-*.. ; 
















6. Catarrh . '"> '-. 
















7. Influenza 














1 



As will be seen from the instructions supplied 
with the sheet, the object of this return was to show 
what epidemics had been present in the localities of 
the observers during given periods of time. The 
mode of filling up the table was very easy. Each 
observer at the end of every week placed in its proper 
column a cross, opposite the name of such of the 
diseases as had occurred in that period within the 
sphere of his observation ; and as it was the object 
of the table to ascertain the presence of the diseases 
named, rather than the number of cases, the occur- 



THE REGISTRATION OF DISEASE. 



291 



rence of even a single case was chronicled. Observers 
who wished to notice other important facts, such as 
the extent and mortality of an epidemic, its mode of 
origin or importation, or meteorological phenomena, 
did so in the blank space headed ' Additional Obser- 
vations.* The returns were made up to me quarterly. 
When all the returns of each quarter had been col- 
lected, they were analysed and tabulated as is shown 
in the following specimen table. 



SPECIMENS OF LOCAL RETURNS FOR REGISTRATION 
OF DISEASE. 

PROGRESS OF EPIDEMICS. 

Local Reports of Epidemic and Endemic Diseases during the Afontks 
of March, April, and May, 1857, 



Place 


County 


lati- 
tude 


Longitude 


Observer 






N. 






St. Mary, 


Cornwall . 


49.56 


6.5 W. 


J. G. Moyle, Esq. 


Scilly 










Teignmouth 


Devonshire 


50.32 


3-29 ,1 


W. C. Lake, Esq. 


Odiham 


Hampshire 


51.8 


1.3 


J. Mclntyre, M.D. 


Canterbury 


Kent . 


5LI7 


1.4 E. 


f G. Rigden, Esq. 
\ W. Haffenden, Esq. 


Chatham . 
Wands- 


Kent . 
Surrey 


51.21 
51.28 


0.31 
0.7 W. 


F. J. Brown, M.D. 
G. E. Nicholas, Esq. 


worth 










Putney 


Surrey . 


51.28 


0.8 


R. H. Whiteman, 










Esq. 


Upper Hol- 


Middlesex . 


51.32 


0.03 E. 


W. B. Kesteven, 


loway 








Esq. 


Swansea . 


Glamorgan- 


51.38 


3- SOW. 


W. H. Michael, Esq. 




shire 








Aspley 


Bedford- 


52.1 


o-37 


J. Williams, M.D. 


Guise 


shire 









292 



THE REGISTRATION OF DISEASE. 



QUARTERLY STATEMENT. 

\The dates denote that the disease appeared in the -weeks then ending.'} 



SCARLET FEVER. 
Canterbury March 13-20, April 

10-17, Ma 7 8-22. 
Swansea All April, May 8-15. 
Bedford April 10-17. 
Beccles March 20-27. 

MEASLES. 

Chatham March 27. 
Wandsworth April 24. 
Upper Holloway March 20, 

May 8-15. 
Saffron Walden March 13-27, 

all April and May. 

SMALL-POX. 

Canterbury April 17-24. 
Chatham March 20. 
Swansea May 22-29. 
Sharnbrook April 3-10. 

HOOPING COUGH. 
Canterbury All March, April 

3-17, May 1-22. 

Chatham March 6, April 10-17. 
Wandsworth April 24, May I. 
Putney April 17. 

CROUP. 
Canterbury April 10-17, May 

8-15. 

Chatham April 3-17. 
Upper Holloway March 27, 

April 10-17. 
Swansea March 20-27, April 3. 

CATARRH. 
St. Mary's, Scilly April 24, 

May 1-15. 
Teignmouth March 6-2O, April 

10-24, May 1-15-29. 



DYSENTERY. 

Teignmouth March 13-27, May 

22. 

Chatham March 6. 
Wandsworth March 27, April 

3-10, May i. 
Putney April 17, May 1-8. 

' _ TYPHUS. 

Teignmouth March 20, April 3- 

10. 

Odiham March 13. 
Canterbury Every week. 
Chatham Every week. 

PUERPERAL FEVER. 

Putney May I. 

Saffron Walden March 27, April 

3- 

Newport Pagnell May 8. 
Alford March 20. 



CARBUNCLE. 

St. Mary's, Scilly May 1-8. 
Teignmouth April 24. 
Canterbury Every week. 
Chatham March 20-27, April 3. 

VARICELLA. 
Wandsworth March 6. 

ACUTE RHEUMATISM. 

Wrexham All March, April 3- 
10. 



THE REGISTRATION OF DISEASE. 293 

I obtained from these tables at one glance a 
perfect view of the progress of the diseases named at 
given points of latitude and longitude, their preva- 
lence according to season, the relative duration of 
each form of disease, and the order in which one 
epidemic followed another. 

To these essential facts, much interest was added 
through the ' additional observations ' made by each 
observer. Knowing well how much the time of the 
busy medical practitioner is occupied, and feeling 
sure that any intrusive and organised encroachment 
on his time and industry would be safe to carry with 
it its own destruction, I abstained from doing more 
than suggest what information would be most useful, 
leaving the details to volunteer effort. In the sug- 
gestions thus respectfully offered I took care, however, 
always to throw in major considerations. The follow- 
ing points of information were specially asked for : 

1. Notes of meteorological changes taken daily, 
and classified side by side with the report of disease. 

2. Notes on the diseases of inferior animals, classi- 
fied by the side of the diseases occurring simulta- 
neously in the human subject. 

3. Notes on the condition of the vegetable world 
and of the diseases of vegetables, classified in the 
same way. 

4. Notes on the water supply of the different 



294 THE REGISTRATION OF DISEASE. 

stations, and on the real or apparent connection of 
such supply with the prevailing diseases. 

5. Notes on the sanitary state of the station of 
drainage, of food, of architecture, and, in fact, of the 
social condition in general of the locality. 

6. Notes bearing on the mortality of the disorders 
specified in the returns. 

7. Special note as v to the method by which any 
given epidemic found its way into any given locality : 
whether a case of the same disease had been im- 
ported, or whether any article had been imported, 
which could have contained contagion. 

8. Special note as to the outbreak of any new 
epidemic disease within the bounds of any station, 
and as to the mode of origin and propagation of such 
epidemic. 

The plan thus arranged, I commenced the first 
publication of the labour in April, 1855. The reports 
came in from the twelve towns as stations of ob- 
servation. In the next return, made the succeeding 
quarter, three new stations were enrolled, and I 
went on adding to the number, till, in 1858, I 
brought the number up to as many as forty-four 
stations. By this time the line of observation ex- 
tended from the extreme southern to almost the 
extreme northern point of the island i.e., from St. 
Mary's, Scilly, to Lerwick, Shetland. 



THE REGISTRATION OF DISEASE. 



295 



Divided into counties, the points of observation 
were arranged as follows, the names of the observers 
being also supplied : l 



Counties 


Stations 


Observers 


Cornwall . , 
Devonshire . 
Hampshire 

Somersetshire . 
Kent, &c. . 


St. Mary's, Scilly 
Teignmouth 
Portsmouth and Odi 
ham 
Bridgewater 
f Chatham 
\Canterbury, &c. 


Mr. Moyle 
Dr. Lake 
Dr. Mclntyre 

Mr. A. Haviland 
Dr. Brown 
Messrs. RigdenandReid, 
and nine observers by 
Mr. Haffenden 



It would take up too much of the time of the 
reader to enter into the particulars of the whole of 

1 I am prevented by limitation of space from completing this table, 
which, in its perfect form, gives the names of all the observers who lent 
me their valuable aid in the labours now under description. I think it 
requisite to add the names of the remaining observers, and publicly to 
acknowledge how deeply indebted I am to every one who assisted 
me in these enquiries. The remaining names stand as follows : Dr. 
Whiteman, Putney; Dr. Nicholas, Wandsworth ; Dr. Kesteven, Hol- 
loway; Mr. Cox, Hawkesbury; Mr. Michael, Swansea; Dr. Barker, 
Bedford j Dr. Williams, Aspley Guise ; Mr. Stedman, Sharnbrook ; 
Mr. Laver, Colchester ; Messrs Spurgeon and Stear, Saffron Walden ; 
Mr. Rogers, Newport Pagnell ; Mr. Dalby, Wellingborough ; Dr. 
Crowfoot, Beccles ; Dr. Vincent, East Durham ; Dr. Bailey, Thetford ; 
Mr. A. Freer, Stourbridge ; Mr. Houghton, Dudley ; Dr. Thomson, 
Burton-on-Trent j Mr. Swann, Barrowden ; Dr. Hole, Wisbeach ; 
Mr. Cartwright, Oswestry ; Mr. Eddowes, Pontesbury ; Dr. Robert- 
son, Nottingham ; Dr. Williams, Wrexham ; Dr. Moffat, Hawarden ; 
Mr. Thorpe, Stavely ; Dr. Lowe, Lincoln j Dr. West, Alford ; Mr. 
Bickerton, Liverpool; Mr. Spinks, Warrington; Mr. Hussey, Wigan ; 
Mr. Pendlebury, Bolton ; Dr. Proctor, York ; Mr. Radcliffe, Bramley 
(now of Loudon) ; Mr. Todd, West Auckland ; Mr. Summers, Roth- 
bury ; Dr. Spence, Lerwick. Fifty-five in all. 



296 THE REGISTRATION OF DISEASE. 

the materials collected by these industrious observers. 
Their labours would make up, indeed, a volume of 
some 300 closely-printed octavo pages. I would, 
however, claim permission to offer a brief account of 
the working of this voluntary scheme. I may observe, 
then, that with care on the part of the collection, the 
reports were obtained with a regularity and precision 
which I had by no means expected, and that in the 
neighbourhood of the stations no material fact relating 
to prevailing epidemics was omitted. In many cases, 
moreover, all the additional particulars asked for 
were supplied with the greatest care. Meteorological 
records were kept by several of the observers, and 
the influences of the various meteorological con- 
ditions on the progress of existent diseases were 
accurately noted. In some cases, also, the diseases 
of the inferior animals were regularly reported, and 
connexions were traced as occurring between diseases 
of the lungs in the human subject and in the cattle of 
neighbouring districts. Some of these facts, affirma- 
tive in kind, were of great value, as tending to show 
that pleuro-pneumonia in the inferior animals is often 
co-existent with lung diseases in man of an inflam- 
matory exudative character and of epidemic type. 

In a vast number of cases evidences of the origin 
of diseases from local causes were cited with a 
circumstantiality which was irresistibly conclusive, 



THE REGISTRATION OF DISEASE. 297 

and over and over again the subsidence of epidemics 
on the removal of such producing causes was clearly 
demonstrated. 

The occurrence of new forms of disease, and of 
peculiarities of types in diseases common to the 
neighbourhood, were supplied with much fidelity. 
Thus, the fact of the first cases of diphtheria that were 
ever recognised in England was first communicated to 
me by Mr. Reid, of Canterbury, and was published in 
Mr. Haffenden's quarterly statement for April, 1857, 
from the nine observers on his station. In a word, 
the working of the plan was as effective as the most 
sanguine could desire. As the records became known, 
fresh volunteers from different parts came in ; and 
had I continued the proceeding I could in time have 
secured at least one observer in every large town in 
the kingdom. I could also have changed the cha- 
racter of the return so as to have received it monthly 
or even weekly. I regret to say that the success 
which so completely followed the effort was the 
immediate cause of its cessation ; for in proportion 
as the registration became more effective, the expenses 
attendant on the carrying of it out became propor- 
tionately large, so that, after a four years' struggle to 
sustain it, I was compelled to relinquish the project 
altogether. I fear the same fate would attend any 
other single-handed effort in the same direction, 



298 THE REGISTRATION OF DISEASE. 

unless the conductor had an independency, or adequate 
assistance and encouragement from without. At the 
same time, after an experience longer by far, and much 
more laboured, than has ever before been gained in 
the registration of disease, I am convinced that the 
perfection of a system of registration, and the carrying 
of it into practice, is the most certain of tasks ; and, 
that an entire comprehension of the laws by which 
epidemics, at least, are governed would be the result 
of such a task, if it were well sustained for ten or 
fifteen years. 

IV. The last point to which I would venture to 
direct attention has reference to a plan for the com- 
plete registration of disease in England. In 1854 I 
placed the details of this plan before the Epidemio- 
logical Society, and in January, 1858, I brought it 
again forward in the ' Sanitary Review.' I hope now 
to obtain for it a third and wider reading. 

The principle on which this proposed plan is 
based consists in nothing more than a simple arrange- 
ment for transferring the present weekly returns of 
the Poor Law medical officers into accurate official 
records of the diseases of each parochial district. 

Let us, for a moment, glance at the extent and 
capabilities of this proposed system of registration. 

In the first place, the whole of England is fairly 
divided amongst the union medical officers. The poor 



THE REGISTRATION OF DISEASE. 299 

of the districts are mainly under their care ; and the 
inference therefore is tolerably safe, that no im- 
portant epidemic could occur in any part without 
being duly noticed. 

Secondly, the points of observation are numerous. 
I find, from a return made by Mr. Baines to the 
House of Commons, in the year 1853, that there are 
not less than 3,233 parochial medical officers in 
England and Wales. 

Thirdly, the observers thus occupied are of all 
men the most fitted for the task. They are stationed 
in their special localities for great lengths of time ; 
they are well acquainted with the characters of the 
localities, with the manners, habits, and diseases of 
the people ; and, they are, as a general rule, among 
the most zealous, humane, and educated of the 
members of the community. 

Fourthly, and this is the most important of all, 
the parochial medical officer, as we know from ex- 
perience, could make returns of his observations of 
disease with the least possible labour. He does, in 
fact, already make these returns, in great part, with- 
out any reference to their more extended bearings. 
In order to supply his board of guardians with 
correct information on the condition of the poor 
under his charge, he is furnished with a weekly 
return -sheet. In this sheet it is his duty to enter the 



300 THE REGISTRATION OF DISEASE. 

name, the sex, the age, the residence, and the disease 
of each of his poor patients. He has, further, to 
state the days on which he visited the patient, the 
diet required, and such other general observations as 
he may think proper. 

Having myself made use of these return-books in 
collecting facts on disease, I can speak with certainty 
as to their value, even in their present rudely con- 
structed form ; and could these records, as they now 
exist, be brought together, we might glean from them 
a large amount of valuable information. But if these 
3> 2 33 weekly returns, drawn up for trifling objects, 
comparatively speaking, were so modified as to be- 
come really scientific registers of epidemic diseases, 
and, if thus modified, they were regularly transmitted 
to some central authority who could use them for a 
definite purpose, what truly important tablets of 
disease they would become. There would then be 
no disease-registration in the world like that of 
England. 

As regards the forms themselves, it is worthy of 
remark that in their present state they perform only a 
temporary purpose. They supply the guardians of 
unions with information for the week, and are then 
forgotten. I believe that under any new system, 
which should require the papers to be sent away after 
the meeting of the board, a duplicate need scarcely 



THE REGISTRATION OF DISEASE. 301 

be retained. Pile upon pile, mouldering away 
amongst dust and rubbish in the cellars of work- 
houses, and in the surgeries of medical men, lie what 
might become the greatest records of disease ever 
published, veritable histories, which Government has 
often sought after at great pains, great cost, and, as 
yet, with little advantage. 

The modifications required in the book supplied 
by the guardians to their Poor Law medical officers 
are few and simple. The size of the book would 
remain the same, but one addition should be made : 
upon the inner side of the cover, and on the fly leaf, 
should be pasted a map of the observer's district, to- 
gether with a brief description of the geological 
characters, extent, latitude, longitude, produce, num- 
ber of towns, population, and the like. These par- 
ticulars, once drawn out and printed, would remain 
for many years without any material alteration. At 
all events, they would give the medical observer 
no trouble, though rendering his reports infinitely 
valuable. 

The modifications required in the weekly returns 
themselves are also very few. The columns would 
remain unaltered. InJ:he columns, however, now set 
apart merely to express the number of visits paid, 
another letter or two should be introduced to indicate 
certain important facts. The V or the X might still 

14 



302 THE REGISTRATION OF DISEASE. 

stand to represent the visit ; but the letters D D 
should be inserted to show the day of commence- 
ment of disease, the single D to represent the day 
of death, the letter C to show when convalescence 
commenced and R to point out the time of complete 
recovery, as indicated on next page. 

By an extension of the day columns, and by a few 
cross lines, an arrangement might be formed for 
recording the meteorological readings of the week ; 
while the date at the top, as given in present returns, 
would decide the question of seasons. The last two 
columns might well remain unchanged. The one for 
necessaries would show the diet of the patient. The 
one for general observations would leave room for 
notes on treatment, hygienic conditions, or other 
special points, and this column would be better if left 
rather larger than it now stands in the return-book. 
In intrusting to medical officers of districts duties so 
important, a fair scale of remuneration should be 
adopted, for by this means they would be led to 
accept the labour as part of the business of their 
professional life. 

This weekly return of disease, immediately after 
it has served its local purpose, should be despatched 
to the Metropolis, to be reported upon weekly, after 
the manner of the reports on the returns sent to the 
Registrar-General of Births, Marriages, and Deaths. 



THE REGISTRATION OF DISEASE. 



33 





g 


a 




rt 


<u 1 










1 


-1 




C 

v..2 


in 




Ill's* 


1 




H 


W 




c 






fc<fe|~A< 






S 


g 


1 




'o 






jj 


1 


s 


X 


1 


ll 


I 


X 






$ 




^ 


X 


Q 








& 


II 


d 

o 


X 


g 


a 






5 

u 

3 

H 


Days whei 


d 

3 
OT 


X 


1 


X 




8 3 


* '-1 




l-o| 


J~ s 




2 Q 


^ 




sife. 


g 




*5'S g2 


V 

1 




1 







1 


i 




4> 






hO 






9 


!i 



Disease of malig- 
nant type. This 
was a second 
case, and con- 
veyed clearly by 


miection 
A mild case 

Bronchial symp- 
toms severe. 
The epidemic 

l^c. Vo^ ^.^ 


|ll| "I* 




1 


1 1 

PI 


"w 

i 
>> 3 

I ! 




1 


i I 


i i 




Q 


i > 


> > 


^^o, 1 


> 


> > 


i > 


^-?5^ 


> 


i > 


> > 


j2j o H_OO^ q 


> 


> > 


i > 


S5-\,,l 


> 


I > 


> I 


|-&1 


> 


> > 


i 


*'%3 


Q 
f5 


> 


1 1 


MO Q 




d v) 






J| 


I'il 









I 


| 

^ i> 

c c 


"1 


a 




P OT 


e 


I 

13 

CJ 


h 

o 1 

X Q 


1 I 

Q co 


o 


N 


a- ^ 


^ a- 


1 s. f 


o""* 


I i 
il! 


|i|l 


jiill 



304 THE REGISTRATION OF DISEASE. 

I feel it possible that one objection may be made 
to these records. It may be said that they will not 
represent the epidemics of a whole population. To 
this I answer, that the number of cases occuring in 
any given epidemic is of no importance whatever if 
the course of the disease be observed over an immense 
and isolated tract of land, such as England, if its 
general characters be carefully described, and if the 
conditions which peculiarly favour its manifestations 
be accurately pointed out. From three thousand 
weekly returns, all constructed on the same prin- 
ciples, these and many other facts could not fail to 
be elicited ; while from the facts themselves, care- 
fully stored up for some years, would eventually be 
wrought out the historical formula of every epidemic 
disease. 

In conclusion, while I have felt it my duty to 
bring before the notice of the public the great 
. fact, that in England there exists a registration of 
disease which, slightly amended and applied, would 
lead the medical profession to a correct scientific 
knowledge of the laws by which great pestilences are 
moved and governed, and, as a result of such know- 
ledge, to the entire removal of these pestilences, I 
have little hope at present that the reform suggested 
will be carried out. The question of Poor Law 
medical relief is in itself so difficult, and so many 



THE REGISTRATION OF DISEASE. 305 

obstacles stand in the way of its reform, that we must, 
I fear, be content for a long time to see three thousand 
returns of disease thrown away weekly ; a sacrifice of 
science, in her noblest efforts, either to political or 
public apathy. 

Meanwhile, the diseases will continue to destroy. 



IX. 

ON ETHER-DRINKING AND EXTRA- 
ALCOHOLIC INTOXICATION. 

THOSE who like to find excuses for indulgence 
in the use of alcoholic drinks are apt to argue 
that the taste for intoxicants is a part of natural man. 
Some go further and declare that the said part, more 
clearly than anything else, distinguishes man from 
the beast. The beast has no taste for strong drink ; 
the beast never gets drunk of its own will and plea- 
sure ; the beast knows nothing of the enjoyment of 
the wine cup, of wine that maketh glad the heart of 
man : therefore, the poor beast is a little lower than 
man, as man is a little lower than the angels. 

It is a pity to break this delusion, but it must be 
broken. Beasts are not so much lower in intelligence 
than man that they cannot enjoy wine. Man is not 
so much above the beast that he alone can enjoy it. 

With both man and beast the taste for and enjoy- 
ment of alcoholic drinks are mere matters of education. 



EXTRA-ALCOHOLIC INTOXICATION. 307 

You can educate either of them to take strong drink, 
and the world, if it liked the amusement, could train 
up menageries of drunken beasts that would rival 
the gin-palaces of Liverpool, Manchester, or London 
itself. 

There is a disease common amongst the hard 
drinkers of the human family which has gained the 
common name of ' gin-drinker's liver,' and which the 
learned members of the Faculty of Medicine call 
'cirrhosis of the liver.' The disease consists of an 
indurated condition of the liver which impedes, and as 
a rule fatally impedes, the function of that vital organ, 
with dropsy as a further condition and death in due 
time, which is not often a long time. Amongst my 
pathological specimens I have the cirrhosed liver of a 
cat. This cat was taught by some young children 
to drink wine. The cat would amuse a company 
at dessert by taking her share of old port, and by 
becoming first excited and then very stupid, unsteady, 
and sleepy. In a few months this feline drunkard 
became dropsical and soon died. Her liver presented 
one of the most typical examples of cirrhosis. 

When I was conducting my researches on the 
influence of alcohol on animal temperature, I fed 
pigeons on peas that had been soaked in a solution 
of alcohol. At first, as is the case with the human 
subject, objection was taken by the birds to the 



3o8 ON ETHER-DRINKING AND 

foreign substance in their food, and in a few instances 
the wiser birds objected to it altogether. But others, 
so far from objecting, soon acquired a taste for the 
foreign substance and became decided alcoholics. 
They quickly were made sleepy, drowsy, and in 
short diseased animals, but for that they did not 
care. The alcoholic constitution once pronounced in 
them, they were fond of the luxury that led to it. If 
they could have talked to their abstaining fellows, 
what arguments they might have used ! Happily for 
the world that feeds on pigeons, they could neither 
talk nor argue alcoholically. 

A horse will learn to drink beer. One day, when 
I was riding in a hired carriage near to Canterbury, 
the horse stopped short at a wayside public-house. I 
asked the driver what that was for. ' The horse,' said 
he, ' always stops here for his beer ; he wouldn't go 
by on no account ; you couldn't whip him by, sir, 
till he has had his beer. His former master taught 
him to drink beer and invariably treated him to it at 
this house, and here he'll stop till he gets it.' It was 
the fact. A large tankard of beer was brought out 
for that horse, and he disposed of the fluid with as 
much relish as his master, and then went his way. 
, It's a shame,' added the driver, * but young fellows 
from London who like a joke, and who also like beer 
themselves, will sometimes give him a lot and make 



EXTRA-ALCOHOLIC INTOXICATION-. 309 

him very drunk. Then he is awkward to drive, and 
bad for two or three days afterwards, and we have to 
give him more beer to keep him up, which costs a 
lot.' 

In some parts of the country it is the custom still 
to feed fattening calves with what are called 'gin 
balls ' ; a portion of barley flour is made into a paste, 
and to the paste a measure of gin is added. The 
gin paste is then made up into rolls and the calves 
are fed with the rolls much in the same way as the 
traveller Bruce recorded that the Abyssinian lords 
were daily fed by their faithful wives. After this 
refreshing meal the calves are for a short time frisky 
and wild in the darkened and warm cells in which 
they are placed to fatten. But before long they go 
down on their knees, get exceedingly drowsy, and 
do not move again, nor care for anything, until the 
next meal comes round. 'They soon take very 
kindly to gin balls,' a feeder of calves told me. ' They 
soon like them better than anything else, and the 
gin keeps them so quiet, that they are fattened up in 
half the time, in the dark. If we didn't give them 
gin, they would get restive in the dark and wouldn't 
get fat.' The moral of this is very effective when we 
remember how many human beings get ready to die 
by gin and darkness. 

It is a delusion, then, to suppose that all the 



310 ON ETHER-DRINKING AND 

pleasures and advantages of the alcoholic existence 
are confined, by nature, to the higher animal, man. 
Nature providing for the exercise of free will, lets us 
learn to partake of what is even foreign to her rule. 
Man learns to make alcohol and offers it to other 
men, who take it and like it after they have gone 
through the nauseous ordeal, which Nature as a 
warning imposes, of learning to like it. It would be 
one of the strangest things in all living phenomena 
if this learning were confined to man. It would be 
as strange as the special phenomenon of the gift of 
speech in man, and would really suggest that wine 
was made for man alone. It happens in this case, 
however, that the strangeness of the phenomenon in 
relation to strong drink does not hold good. The 
lower animals, the cat, the dog, the horse, the calf, 
the pig, the jackass, nay even the goat which does 
not ordinarily drink water, can learn to enjoy strong 
drink equally with man. 

All-provident Nature, how wonderful is thy bene- 
ficence ! 

If the day should ever come when, under the 
extending guidance of man, the alcoholic constitution 
shall be generally introduced into the ranks of the 
lower animal kingdom, it is difficult to forecast what 
developmental changes will take place. There will 
be new races of the lower animals, and breeds inap- 



EXTRA-ALCOHOLIC INTOXICATION. 311 

proachable. What shorthorns we shall then have ! 
What a splendid new breed of sheep another Jonas 
Webb will send to the prize show ! What horses will 
run for the Derby ! what hounds pursue the flying 
Reynard ! What trustworthy carrier pigeons there 
will be ! How much more faithfully and steadily the 
dog will serve his master ! What fine pathological 
cats, dropsical and drowsy, will purr on the hearth- 
rugs ! What butcher's meat will hang up in the 
shambles ! How the lions will roar and the monkeys 
gabble and chastise their better halves in the Zoolo- 
gical Gardens and travelling menageries ! With what 
skill the buyer of animals will alter his computations 
so as to estimate his bargains by the shorter life of 
that which he buys ! What modifications of tables 
the accident insurance offices will introduce by way 
of increased premiums for all travellers on horseback 
and by teams on the roads ! How delicious it will 
be to cross footpaths in country fields where the oxen 
have so much brandy or beer put into their drinking- 
water to keep them up and make them lively ! This 
truly will not be the day ' when the wolf shall dwell 
with the lamb, and the leopard shall lie down with the 
kid, and the calf and the young lion and the fatling 
together ; and a little child shall lead them.' But of 
what import is that ? If it be good that man shall 
possess himself of the advantages which up to the 



312 ON ETHER-DRINKING AND 

present time have only been exceptionally possessed 
by the beast, why should the beast be deprived of the 
improvement ? It is the duty of man to improve the 
life standard of every useful thing in life that is under 
his command. Let him be logical, and extend the 
improvements inflicted by alcohol, assured that they 
will be reflected back again to himself a thousandfold 
in proportion as their goodness is extended to the 
world of creation beneath his own. 

The opinion that no animal save man can enjoy 
the advantage of indulgence in alcoholic drinks so far 
disproved, there arises a second opinion, that alcohol 
is an agent unique in its kind for conferring on man 
the advantages that are sought from its use. No- 
thing, it is said, could adequately replace alcohol for 
the purposes it subserves. Here again we come into 
contact with another delusion, which, like the former, 
is maintained only because all the fact* are not so 
generally known as they might be ; the truth being, 
that there are a number of agents which answer all 
the purposes of alcohol, which are less injurious than 
alcohol, which are more convenient to take, which, 
when the taste for them is acquired, are equally 
pleasant, and some of which produce a much more 
ethereal and refined intoxication than any wine or 
other alcoholic drink that is commonly brought to the 
table. 



EXTRA-ALCOHOLIC INTOXICATION. 313 

To the delight arising from the employment of 
these agents I apply the term, extra-alcoholic intoxi- 
cation. 

The alcohol which enters into our common wines, 
beers, and spirits is called by the chemists ethylic 
alcohol, or sometimes deutylic. Not many years 
ago it was unknown that there was any other alcoholic 
spirit in existence save and except this one alcohol, 
which could be distilled over from wine and other 
common fermented drinks. Now we know that there 
is a large family of the alcohols, each member of 
which is constructed of precisely the same elements, 
viz. : carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen, with the 
oxygen element remaining the same, but with the 
two first-named elements, the carbon and the 
hydrogen, holding different relative proportions. By 
accident of discovery the ethylic alcohol, or alcohol 
of wine, was first brought into use, but all the other 
alcohols have intoxicating properties, varied only in 
effect by the difference of their physical qualities, one 
being lighter and the others heavier than the common 
and long-known ethylic alcohol. The lightest alcohol, 
called methyllic or wood spirit, is a quick intoxicant. 
It may be driven easily into vapour, and the vapour 
being breathed, men and animals can be made insen- 
sible by the mere act of breathing it, just as they can 
be made insensible or intoxicated by the vapour of 



3H ON 1 ETHER-DRINKING AND 

chloroform. Taken in water as a drink, methylic 
alcohol intoxicates in the same way as the ethylic 
spirit does, and with the same stages of intoxication. 

In accordance, however, with the physical cha- 
racter of methylic alcohol, the action of it in all its 
stages is less intense than is that of the ethylic 
alcohol. Four stages of action, one of excitement, a 
second of excitement with some slight failure of 
mental and muscular power, a third of failure of both 
muscular and mental power, and a fourth of complete 
unconsciousness and of actual prostration, all these 
four stages are produced by methylic alcohol when it is 
taken in sufficient quantity. They are brought about 
more quickly by it than by the heavier ethylic spirit, 
and they pass away more quickly when they have been 
inflicted on the living animal. A good third of time 
for bringing on action as well as for recovery from 
action is saved by using the lighter alcohol. Those, 
moreover, who have learned to drink the lighter 
alcohol in its pure form acquire a taste for it which is 
as distinctive as the taste may be for gin or whisky 
or old port, while, as they tell you, the exhilaration 
produced is more refined and the after-effect less 
disagreeable than from other kinds of stimulating 
drinks. 

These are all advantages, the last named, that of 
the lightness of the after-effect, being the most intel- 



EXTRA-ALCOHOLIC INTOXICATION. 31$ 

ligible. The man who is a drinker of wine and other 
strong drinks makes it almost a rule, in recommend- 
ing his own particular favourite drink, not only to 
praise its goodness while using it, but its comparative 
harmlessness after it has been used. He knows that 
even his model liquor cannot possibly be swallowed 
so as to produce some present effect which he may 
consider pleasant, without, of a certainty, leaving 
some after-effect which requires to be apologised for. 
Of such disagreeables his model causes or produces 
the least number and the least demonstrative ; there- 
fore it is the best. It does not give headache like 
brandy, heartburn like gin, giddiness -and spots before 
the eyes like whisky, gout or gouty rheumatism like 
old port, acidity like claret or cider, or drowsiness and 
stupor like beer. It does something perchance, but 
nothing that a man need be pitied for enduring ; 
therefore it is the best. One of my friends always 
drinks champagne. He does not like champagne so 
much as he likes madeira or rich port, and he does 
not think it so ' sustaining ' as either of those two 
wines ; but then it never provokes a decided fit of 
dyspeptic gout, never lays him up for two or three 
days, as those fine old wines invariably do. It 
produces just a little flatulency, and now and then a 
slight squeamishness and giddiness, but nothing 
more. For these reasons he holds by champagne as 



316 ON ETHER-DRINKING AND 

the wine which, on the whole, suits him best, or does 
him the least harm. He is a wiser man than many, 
but not the wisest. The few who drink the pure 
methylic alcohol hold the same ideas in respect to 
their model intoxicant, and in so far as their reason- 
ing applies, at all reasonably, they are correct in 
what they say. Methylic alcohol, lighter than ethylic, 
causes a quicker sensation of what is thought to be 
pleasure, and for the same* reason its action is more 
speedily over. In plain words, it escapes from the 
body affected by it more easily, in which particular it 
has a decided advantage over all the other members 
of its family as an agent to be used by the members 
of the human family for their delectation. 

Up to this time methylic alcohol has not been so 
much used as one would suppose it might have been. 
The specimens of it in the market are, as a rule, so 
impure that there has been a prejudice against it. 
Yet I have met with those who would drink, with 
relish, even the impure sort, after ft little training in 
drinking it, when it was made sweet and was diluted 
with water. One person with whose history I am 
acquainted took the pure methylic spirit whenever 
he could get it, and looked upon it as nectar com- 
pared with the coarser spirits on which other and 
less refined mortals were foolish enough to stake their 
indulgences. 



EXTRA-ALCOHOLIC INTOXICATION. 317 

If common ethylic alcohol be treated with strong 
sulphuric acid, the oil of vitriol of the ancient 
chemists, there is formed a light fluid, which distils 
over, and which, because of its extreme lightness, has 
been called ' ether.' Pure anhydrous ether, that is to 
say ether from which all traces of water have been 
removed, is one of the lightest fluids known. Its 
weight is 720 as compared with water as 1,000. If into 
the palm of the hand a little of it be poured, it begins 
to bubble with great rapidity, for it boils and passes 
into vapour at 94 Fahr., that is, at four degrees of 
heat lower than the temperature of the natural body. 
It is much less soluble than the two soluble alcohols 
which we have had under consideration. One part of 
it only will fairly dissolve in twelve parts of cold water. 
It has a taste which is very peculiar, and which, to 
the uninitiated in its use, is certainly not pleasant. 

Any one of the members of the alcohol family, 
if heated with strong acid, will yield an ether ; but 
different alcohols yield different ethers, according 
to their kind. The light methylic alcohol yields 
metliylic ether, which under ordinary conditions exists 
only in the state of a gas, but which is compressible 
into a liquid. Ethylic alcohol yields the ordinary 
ether of commerce. The heavier alcohols yield 
heavier and very potent ethers, the action of some of 
' which I have studied, but which do not concern us at 



318 ON ETHER-DRINKING AND 

the present time. Our business is with the two 
lightest ethers, the methylic and the ethylic. 

The action of the common ethylic ether on man 
has been carefully studied on the largest scale, owing 
to the circumstance that it is the fluid used, by the 
inhalation of its vapour, for the production of insensi- 
bility to pain during the performance of surgical 
operations. The action of the lighter methylic ether 
has been a subject of special stud)' by myself, and I 
have reported on it to the British Association for the 
Advancement of Science. As an ether it is the best 
and safest of all the anaesthetics, but it is not readily 
applicable, since it exists only in the gaseous state 
under the ordinary atmospheric pressure. 

When either the methylic ethereal gas, or the 
ethylic ethereal vapour, is taken into the lungs by 
inhalation, the effect produced is exceedingly rapid ; 
a full degree of intoxication, with utter unconscious- 
ness and prostration, being producible in a few 
minutes of time. Still, rapid as the changes induced 
are, there are presented to the skilled observer four 
definite degrees or stages of action, (a) A stage of 
excitement ; (b) of excitement with some confusion 
of ideas, and imperfect muscular control ; (c) of loss 
of mental and muscular control and power ; (d) of 
complete loss of consciousness, with entire muscular 
prostration. 



EXTRA-ALCOHOLIC INTOXICATION. 319 

By skill and practice in attaining the art, the fluid 
ethylic ether, or a mixture of methylic ether dissolved 
in ethylic ether, can be swallowed as alcohol is 
swallowed. The art of swallowing it consists in 
getting such a light and gaseous body down the 
throat. The feat can be accomplished by the assist- 
ance of cold water as an aid to swallowing, and the 
ether can thus be actually introduced into the human 
stomach. Once in the body, the ether is taken up by 
the blood, in the same way as if it had been inhaled 
by the lungs, but not with such rapidity. Once in 
the blood, it makes its way over all parts, and pro- 
duces effects the same in relation to degrees or stages 
of intoxication as alcohol does. 

Ethylic ether has been known to the scientific 
world for many centuries, and it has performed some 
of the most useful of purposes to mankind. It was 
by the discovery of its property of producing insensi- 
bility when its vapour is inhaled, that the grand re- 
discovery of the process of general anaesthesia was 
made in the present century. It was by taking 
advantage of the comparative insolubility of ether, 
and its low boiling point, that I, some years ago, was 
able to introduce the process of ether spray for local 
anaesthesia by cold. 

In a world given to treating itself with intoxicants 
as if they were necessities of the living existence, it 



320 ON ETHER-DRINKING AND 

could hardly escape realisation that so potent an 
intoxicant as ether should be thought of and applied 
for purposes of intoxication. Very soon after ether 
began to be used for the relief of pain, it became 
known that some persons indulged in its daily use. 
One of the first men I knew who tried it experi- 
mentally for the purpose of scientific research, took a 
liking to the ecstatic condition caused by it, and in- 
haled the vapour of it as regularly as he imbibed his 
nightly draught of whisky toddy. 

This practice, however, did not gain ground in a 
general way, and for many years after the discovery 
of the anaesthetic properties of ether it was little 
heard of. Inhalation of vapour of ether as a mode of 
habitual intoxication has, in fact, never been generally 
adopted. 

But in another and singular manner the process of 
taking ether for the object of causing the different 
stages of intoxication has been established in one 
part of this kingdom, and has attained such a degree 
of extension, locally, as to demand public attention. 
The process consists in drinking the ether, and the 
phenomena produced by the indulgence in ether- 
drinking are very remarkable. 

When I was travelling in Ireland last year I was 
first told the history I am about to relate. I was 
informed in various towns in Ireland, in Dublin, in 



EXTRA-ALCOHOLIC INTOXICATION. 321 

Cork, in Waterford, in Ballymena, in Belfast, and in 
Coleraine, that in certain districts of the North of 
Ireland there was a widespread custom of ether- 
drinking, and that it behoved me to go and inquire 
into the subject, the scientific as well as the social 
bearings of it being singularly important. It was a 
curious circumstance, but one of many similar, show- 
ing how very little the people of Ireland travel about 
in their own lovely island, that, although many persons 
could give me second-hand information of the practice 
of ether-drinking, I could not find a single person who 
could tell me a word about it from direct personal 
study or observation. At a place where I was dining 
with a rather large party of friends, I was told by one 
of the company that a friend of his had visited a 
village in the 'mountains of the North/ where the 
people drank ether as other people drink whisky, and 
that the odour of the ether was sometimes so per- 
vading it could be detected at the distance of half 
a mile from the village. The story created a good 
laugh, in which I rather rashly joined. I specially 
wished to see and interrogate the visitor to the 
mountains who had observed so strange a phe- 
nomenon, but he had left the town, and I was unable 
to see him. For some days I received accounts of 
these ether-drinkers with, I must confess, a consider- 
able doubt of mind, yet only to have the fact of their 



322 ON ETHER-DRINKING AND 

existence again and again enforced upon me. There- 
upon I determined to go and see for myself, though 
not without suspicions, even when I started, that I 
should find my journey somewhat like a journey that 
is now and then made, to no satisfactory purpose, on 
the morning of the first of April. 

I was directed particularly to Draperstown, ' a 
village in the mountains of the North/ and accord- 
ingly I went there from Ballymena. I passed along 
the line towards Belfast, until I reached a junction 
where there was a branch line to Magherafelt, a very 
pretty market town, a few miles from Draperstown. 
On inquiry I found that the ether-drinking practice 
was not much known in Magherafelt itself, but that 
round about there were ' ether-drinkers/ and that at 
Draperstown there were plenty of them. We must 
have a car, I say we, because my son accompanied 
me, and away to Draperstown. As we journeyed 
we were taken, or rather mistaken, for two of the 
members of the Drapers' Company, on a visit to look 
after our * nate little property in the mountains/ and 
we could not remove the impression, though we did 
not wish to pass for what we were not. For some 
reason, which I could not get at, I was believed to be 
the solicitor to that respectable company, and as such I 
was carried away in a rough ' jaunting ' car, drawn by 
a skeleton of a horse that could go like the wind when 



EXTRA-ALCOHOLIC INTOXICATION. 323 

guided by a driver who was as silent as the grave in 
which, I am sure, that skeleton of a horse must by 
this time be taking its rest. In my life I have never 
enjoyed such a drive of beauty as from Magherafelt to 
Draperstown. For the first mile or two the road is 
simple enough, up hill and down, with side fences and 
fields, and no extensive view. But soon we emerge 
into a very basin of light ; not into a valley, but into 
a huge plain, with hills, or, as the natives say, ' moun- 
tains ' all around us. The mountains, blue in the 
distance as the bluest sea, shade away into filmy 
clouds, which, dark in their centres, and tipped at their 
edges with silvery white, look like monster seagulls 
floating for a time around the tops of the mountains 
or from 6"ne mountain to another, and then dissolving 
away. Yet these blue mountains, when you come to 
them, are seen to be richly cultivated to their highest 
parts, and their blue colour, as the approach to them 
draws near, shades into the practical green. In the 
various movements of the changing shades I forgot 
for a moment all about ether except the ethereal blue, 
all about drinkers of every kind except those who can 
drink in the beauties of Nature. I almost clapped 
my hands in my delight. Even that silent driver of 
the skeleton horse seemed for a moment to catch the 
enthusiasm, for when I pointed out the exquisite 
greenness of a mountain side he remarked obviously 



324 ON ETHER-DRINKING AND 

afraid of admitting so much to the ogre of a solicitor 
to the Drapers' Company, ' that green shure enough 
was the colour of Ould Ireland ; ' after which he sub- 
sided for ten minutes at least, and only resumed the 
conversation to ask me whether when we steamed 
from Holyhead to Ireland I observed in the distance 
' Ireland's pye.' A brisk drive across this plain in the 
mountains brought us to an ascent, and once more 
along shaded lanes until we came to a plateau ; then 
down into a valley not very deep, and up again to 
another plateau ; and so near to our journey's end. 
On our right, from beneath us, as if from a hollow, 
rose a body of light blue smoke. ' That is the smoke 
from Draperstown,' said the driver. A little farther 
on we saw the tops of the houses, and a red flag 
floating on a high pole or mast. * That's the doctor's 
flag,' remarked the driver ; ' the doctor keeps a flag, 
and he often flies it.' 

The wind was not in the right direction as we 
entered the town, so we did not smell ether. Soon we 
passed a neat hotel on our right hand, and then, 
turning sharply to the left, we were at the upper end 
of the town. 

We had gathered, from the stories that had been 
told to us about this ' village of the mountains,' that it 
was a rude and straggling place. Instead of this, we 
found it, to our pleasant surprise, to be one of the 



EXTRA-ALCOHOLIC INTOXICATION. 325 


prettiest places in the three kingdoms. The row of 

houses and buildings on the right hand, which look 
down on a lower part of the village, are good hand- 
some structures. Before them is an open space of 
large size, like a big square, exquisitely neat and 
clean, and beyond the square the lower town, with a 
fine open street leading up a hill into the country, or, 
as the usual expression is, ' into the mountains/ on 
the other side. In the town are some large public 
buildings ; and the parish church which lies a shade 
apart on the right, as we stand above looking towards 
the lower town, is a fine old edifice. 

A small market was being held on the day of my 
visit, and people were very busy and agreeable. They 
were all neatly dressed and well-to-do. The cars of 
those who were from the country were waiting for 
their owners, comfortable and well-fitted cars drawn 
by first-rate cattle. Making my way to the lower 
part of the town, where the business was being 
carried on, sure enough there was the enemy. As 
certainly as if I had been in the sick-room using ether- 
spray for an operation, there, in the open space, came 
over to me the odour of ether. Amongst the people 
who were buying and selling the odour was pre- 
vailing. At the door of a house where ether could 
be bought the odour was as distinct as from an open 
flask containing ether. Passing along so that .the 

15 



326 ON ETHER-DRINKING AND 

wind brought the vapour from the lower part of the 
town, I easily traced the odour of the vapour several 
hundred yards, and the statement of the gentleman 
who had detected it half a mile from the town recurred 
to me as one which ought not to have been laughed 
at as it was, without any doubt, strictly true. 

I was fortunate in carrying with me an introduc- 
tion which enabled me to obtain the precise infor- 
mation I wanted and which confirmed to the full the 
fact of the existence of the habit of ether-drinking 
in Draperstown and the adjoining district. My in- 
formants knew when the custom commenced, and 
had observed the results of it with the most careful 
watchfulness. But for this I might have made my 
journey in vain, for the habit is not proclaimed from 
the house-tops, and recently, owing to the influence 
of the Catholic clergy, which influence is strongly 
used against it, the habit is unpopular. Those who 
indulge in it are either silent in respect to it, or 
annoyed if they be questioned in reference to it. 

There have been several theories started as to the 
origin of this practice of ether-drinking. That which 
comes nearest to the truth, as far as I could make out, 
is to the following effect. 

During the temperance mission of the illustridlis 
Father Mathew, that useful social labourer visited the 
North of Ireland, and in the course of his labours was 



EXTRA-ALCOHOLIC INTOXICATION. 327 

so successful in the districts to which I am now 
referring, that practically he brought the whole of the 
people over from hard whisky-drinking to total abstin- 
ence from alcohol. The change was a social revolu- 
tion for good ; and has been effective for good up to 
the present hour, though numbers of those who took 
the pledge from the Father have died, and though no 
one like him has roused the younger generation to 
the same enthusiastic zeal for temperance. Father 
Mathew converted the district to his views. He may 
be said, in a certain sense, to have converted Ireland, 
for he lighted a fire which has never died out. But 
this particular district he converted most effectually. 
After his visit the whisky bottle and the still fell out 
of favour altogether, with the most evident signs of 
improving social progress and happiness. Unfortu- 
nately, one day some cunning diabolical spirit brought 
into Draperstown the ether bottle. ' This,' said 
he, 'contains no whisky, nor anything that will do 
you harm ; but a new drink, which you may taste 
without, in any degree, breaking your pledge. Very 
little of it, not much more than a thimbleful, is 
required to cheer your spirits.' * The new drink ' was 
thereupon introduced, and has been in operation ever 
since. It got its introduction about the year 1846-7, 
and for thirteen years, at least, it was sold freely. It 
was never, I believe, sold regularly at spirit stores, or 



323 ON ETHER-DRINKING AND 

if it were sold, the sale was concealed. A glass of ' the 
new drink ' might be permitted to oblige a customer, 
but the spirit-seller did not make a trade of it, partly, 
perhaps, because the sale of it was opposed to his 
interests, and partly because it might have led to the 
unpleasant interference of excise officers, who could 
not truly have objected to the sale of the ether, since 
it was all made from methylated spirit, which is 
exempted from duty, but who might nevertheless 
have become very troublesome if, on pretext of 
inquiry into the sale of 'the new drink,' they had 
looked into other details which enter into the busi- 
ness of the most respectable seller of older liquors. 

As a result, the sale of ether was confined almost 
exclusively, as it still is, to the shops of the grocer 
and of other small retailers. I was shown two or 
three of these shops as the chief depots where the 
article is obtainable-. 

The customer who is given to enliven himself with 
ether swallows his draught, commonly, at the place of 
sale, though some take the drink home. There is 
an art in swallowing the ether. The drinker first 
washes out his mouth with water ' to cool it ; ' next 
he swallows a little water to cool his throat ; then he 
tosses down the glass of ether ; finally, he closes in 
with another draught of water to keep the ether from 
rising, or, in other words, to cool his stomach, so that 



EXTRA-ALCOHOLIC INTOXICATION. 329 

the volatile ether may not be lost by eructation of its 
vapour. In a little time the ' trick ' is easily acquired 
by members of both sexes. 

The quantity of ether taken at a draught varies 
with diilerent persons. Mr. H. Napier Draper, who 
has favoured me with two excellent papers on this 
subject, which he has published in the ' Medical Press,' 
gives from two to four fluid drachms, that is, a 
quarter of an ounce to half an ounce, as the usual 
quantity. Before I personally inquired into the 
question I should have considered the quantity of half 
an ounce as a dose of ether impossibly large to 
swallow at once. I am convinced, however, now, that 
it is an understatement of the usual dose. A con- 
firmed ether-drinker will toss off a wineglassful of the 
' new drink ' and not be afraid, and a full-sized wine- 
glass will hold three fluid ounces. It is not all who 
indulge to this extent, but few take less than half an 
ounce who take any at all ; and from half an ounce to 
three ounces may be put down as the range of pota- 
tion. Compared with the quantity that can be 
administered by inhalation this amount is not sin- 
gular as an amount. The singular part is that so 
much can be taken in the form of drink and not be 
rejected by the stomach. 

The ether that is thus imbibed is not actually the 
pure ethylic ether. It is made from what is com- 



330 ON ETHER-DRINKING AND 

monly known as methylated spirit, the spirit which 
is used ordinarily for lamps and other every-day 
purposes. Methylated spirit is a mixture of ordinary 
spirit with impure wood spirit, that is, methylic 
alcohol which has not been carefully distilled, and 
which in this impure state has combined with it 
some pyroligneous compounds, small in quantity but 
very nauseous to the taste. The impure mixture 
being free of duty, the ether-makers or importers of 
Belfast and Dublin, who supply the north of Ireland 
with ' the new drink/ are enabled to supply it cheaply, 
namely, at from one shilling and threepence a fluid 
pint, about five times less than the cost of pure ethylic 
ether as we buy it ' retail ' in London. 

Mr. Draper very clearly points out that if the 
ether had not been marketable at the price paid for 
it in the ether-drinking districts it could never have 
been introduced as a new stimulating drink. Esti- 
mating the consumption of the ether at four thousand 
gallons annually, he shows that if whisky were 
taken in the same proportion the excise return from 
it would amount to 5,666/. per annum. The excise 
authorities are in this way deprived of a considerable 
income, presuming always that the equivalent of 
whisky would be taken if ether were not taken. For 
my part, I do not think that whisky would be taken 
in substitution to the full extent, but more in all 



EXTRA-ALCOHOLIC INTOXICATION. 331 

probability would be at this time, when the original 
effect of the temperance pledge is dying out. The 
result, in the long run, does not affect the wealth of 
the community. 1 If more whisky were taken and 
more excise duty paid, there would be more than 
corresponding injury inflicted by poverty, loss of 
useful labour, and increase of crime. 

We may now turn to the physical effects of ether- 
drinking on the life of the drinkers. 

It will be gathered from what has been written, 
that the ether which is consumed is a mixture of 
ethers and of some other organic substances. It 
contains two ethers, some of the light methylic ether 
dissolved in the heavier or ethylic ether; a little 
ethylic alcohol which has not been separated in 
distillation, and some organic odorous compounds, or 
pyroligneous impurities which have also distilled over 
in the process of manufacture. This impure ether com- 
pound does not boil in the hand, as the best ethylic 
ether does; it requires a temperature of 1 08 F. 
for its perfect boiling until it is all dissipated. It 
dissolves in water more readily than the purer speci- 
mens ; one ounce of it will dissolve in eight and a 
half ounces of cold water, water at 50 Fahr. In 
considering the ether which the drinkers imbibe, we 
have then a compound of two ethers, a little alcohol, 
and the trace of hydro-carbons which gives the 



332 ON ETHER-DRINKING AND 

peculiar odour. But I learned that the effects of the 
fluid are due to the two ethers, methylic and ethylic. 

I have already indicated what is the action of 
these ethers on the body of a living man or animal 
when their vapours are inhaled by the lungs. The 
same effects generally are induced when the ethers 
are swallowed into the stomach of the ether-drinker. 
The swallowing of a draught of from three to four 
fluid drachms is followed by quick excitement, flush- 
ing of the face, rapidity of the pulse, elevation of the 
mind, and rapid unsteady motion of the body. The 
same first and second stages of alcoholic excitement 
that are caused by wine are developed by the ether, 
but so rapidly, and running so sharply the one into 
the other, that the two stages, which are so very 
distinct in the process of alcoholic intoxication, 
become hard to distinguish. In these stages the 
ether-drinker is, as a rule, loquacious and ' free of his 
mind,' as one observer very tersely explained to me. 
' He is free of his mind and sometimes shows his 
teeth, but, generally, laughter like that of a person 
in hysterics is the sign of ether-drinking.' The pug- 
nacious are often inclined to fight in these stages, 
and if they do fight, they seem strong, and struggle a 
good deal, but without much sense or judgment. In 
these respects, again, the ether-drinker resembles the 
touchy alcoholic during the first stages of his mania. 



EXTRA-ALCOHOLIC INTOXICATION. 333 

There is, however, a great difference between the 
action of alcohol and ether in another respect. 
Alcohol, steady in its action, soluble and slow of 
elimination, clings to its man, holds by him, keeps up 
his excitement a long time and leaves him depressed, 
melancholic, weary. Ether, on the other hand, rapid 
in its action, feebly soluble in the blood, quick in 
being eliminated, escaping in fact by all the emunc- 
tories, by the skin, the lungs, the kidneys, speedily 
releases its victim, and, without causing any great 
strain on his physical powers, leaves him suddenly a 
sober if not a wiser man. They tell a story in the 
ether-drinking districts of a stranger coming to visit 
his brother, and asking his brother, who was suddenly 
roused into a state of great elevation by a large dose 
of ether, what nonsense that was ! ' Nonsense ! ' 
stammered the ether-inebriate, in self-admiration ; 
' what do you think of being got up to this for three- 
pence ? ' After which admiration, he seasoned down 
to his rational state, and was soon himself again. 

The greater part of those who indulge in ether as 
a drink are content to stop at the first two stages of 
intoxication : but some go further, and, passing into 
a third stage, become at first extremely violent, and 
after a while quite insensible. They fall dead drunk, 
lie breathing heavily for half an hour or more, and 
afterwards wake suddenly quite sober. A few exceed 



334 ON ETHER-DRINKING AND 

this extreme limit and indulge in a poisonous 
measure. Dr. Morewood, of Draperstown, who gave 
me a most careful description of the symptoms 
produced, told me that a short time before my visit he 
was called to a man who had taken a large dose of 
ether, probably after having also taken some whisky, 
and who suddenly fell and ceased to breathe. Before 
Dr. Morewood reached this man he was dead. In 
three other instances in Dr. Morewood's practice an 
all but fatal result followed the taking of a large dose 
of ether, but by artificial respiration the life was 
sustained until the ether had time to eliminate from 
the body ; recovery thereupon occurred, but the 
danger was deathly imminent. Mr. Draper, in his 
paper, refers to a case in which the vapour of ether, in 
the breath of an ether-drinker, caught fire. The 
drinker, in this instance, was reported to be always 
taking ether, when one day, after swallowing a 
quantity, he went to light his pipe, and the fire 
caught his breath. A person near held the burning 
man down, and poured water quickly into his mouth, 
by which the flame was put out, and no great harm was 
done. I did not hear of this escapade myself while in 
the district, but I have no reason to doubt its truth. 
A medical friend of mine who was using ether spray 
to extract a tooth late at night, unwittingly brought a 
lighted candle to the mouth of the patient to examine 



EXTRA-ALCOHOLIC INTOXICATION. 335 

if the whole of the offending molar had been removed. 
To the operator's dismay, as the patient exhaled a 
breath of air from his lungs charged with vapour of 
ether, the vapour caught fire, and but for prompt 
attention a serious accident might have resulted. As 
it was, great alarm and some superficial burning of 
the lips were experienced by the sufferer. 

I gathered from my inquiries that, taken as a 
whole, the symptoms of intoxication caused by 
ether-drinking are identical with those produced by 
alcohol, but are of slighter duration. From the flush- 
ing and surface warmth of the first stage of intoxica- 
tion to the pallor and surface-coldness of the last 
stage, all is the same. I learned also that the taste 
for ether-drinking is speedily acquired, and that when 
it is acquired the craving for ether is as strong as ever 
it could be for alcohol. 

It will occur to the reader, perchance, that the 
action of ether on the animal body is more deplorable 
than the action of alcohol, and that for the benefit of 
the sufferers from ether-drinking the practice ought, 
if that were possible, to be put down with a firm hand. 
I should quite agree as to the suppression of the 
practice ; but I am bound at the same time to state 
the truth, that ether intoxication is actually far less 
injurious, socially, morally, and physically, than is the 
alcoholic intoxication. 



336 ON ETHER-DRINKING AND 

In the first place, the ether-drinker, as he comes 
more readily under the influence of his indulgence, is 
the sooner rendered incapable of continuing the in- 
dulgence. He falls before he is hurt and before he 
has much time to hurt others. For a few minutes he 
does, or, more correctly speaking, he may become a 
savage, but he never becomes a sot, existing for hours 
at a time, or even for days, a helpless, morose dog, 
unable to help himself and determined to help no one 
else, however rightfully they may claim his assistance. 
Neither while he is a savage does he retain for any 
long period the power of doing mischief. His violence 
of temper is brief and is mingled with outbursts of 
crying or laughing, like the wildness of the hysterical 
rather than the furiousness of the mad. Indeed, the 
intoxication produced by ether may be compared to 
alcoholic intoxication, as the hysterical representations 
of some diseases are comparable to the same diseases 
in their reality. The fury of the ether aberration is 
therefore fitful, and, better still, it is short. It is a 
volatile fury, volatile as the fluid which produced it. 
When a man is raging from strong and fiery alcoholic 
drink he wanders about, often for hours, exercising a 
kind of reasoning unreason, irrepressible in what he 
does as a whole, yet with flashes of directing reason 
which lead him to carry out evil acts and purposes 
with a design, skill, and intention which to the by- 



EXTRA-ALCOHOLIC INTOXICATION. 337 

slander may look in every particular like intelligent 
purpose, but which the drunkard is really doing 
without being himself fairly conscio.us, and which 
when he has become sober he has utterly and abso- 
lutely forgotten, if it can be said that what he did was 
ever implanted on his memory. For a moment the 
ether-drinker may imitate the alcoholic in some of 
these respects, but it is only for a moment. Before 
he has time to plan and carry out his miserable 
scheme he is liberated from the devil that possesses 
him, or at the worst falls, for a season, into complete 
insensibility, harmless, unconscious, and ready soon to 
return to the realities of life, sober and in his right 
mind. 

I was specially anxious to ascertain whether under 
the influence of ether-intoxication crimes of violence 
extreme, prolonged and plotted, were carried out, in 
the affected districts. I could hear of none such. 
I heard of blows being struck during the short fury, 
and of foolish things that were half said and done ; 
but the description was tempered by the explanation 
that under excitement from ether there was no time 
for continued violence nor for the carrying out of ma- 
tured designs of an evil kind. This experience tallies 
precisely with that which I have learned in observing 
the effects of the administration of ether vapour on 
men and on animals. When ether was originally 



333 ON ETHER-DRINKING AND 

introduced as an anaesthetic, and the medical students, 
to the great body of which much maligned class I 
had then the honour to belong, were busy making 
experiments of administration on themselves, many 
amusing and short struggles occurred. Nor were the 
same scenes altogether confined to the students. I 
remember a grave assembly of learned doctors, with 
the gravest of its grave in the chair, losing its 
equanimity. An American student, short, powerful, 
and excitable, who was made the subject of experi- 
ment of ether-intoxication, rose during the stage of 
his excitement, and after bursting from his captors, 
and giving, with an eloquence remarkable for its 
passion and a candour equally remarkable for its 
completeness, the prevailing student views as to the 
various professorial and moral qualities of his teachers, 
finished off by going up to the grave and astounded 
president, to astound him still more by a deliberate 
double box on the ears which for many a long day 
was solemnly remembered. But the excitement was 
over in a few minutes, in minutes as compared with 
hours had alcohol been the exciting agent instead of 
ether. 

In the next place, it must be admitted that, as a 
rule, the dream of the ether-drinker, while he is under 
the spell of his enchantress, is far more refined and 
light than the dream of the alcoholic, as that is usually 



EXTRA-ALCOHOLIC INTOXICATION. 339 

described by those who have felt it. Sir Humphry 
Davy, in his memorable, perfect and original work 
on nitrous oxide or laughing gas, strikes a contrast 
between the action of that gas and of alcohol on mind 
and body. For the sake of experiment, Sir Humphry 
subjected himself systematically to an intoxicating 
draught of alcohol. He drank a bottle of wine in 
large draughts in less than eight minutes. Whilst he 
was drinking he felt a sense of fulness in his head with 
throbbing of the arteries. After he had taken all the 
wine the sense of fulness in the head remained, objects 
around him became dazzling, the power of distinct 
articulation was lost, and he was unable to walk 
steadily. At this moment his sensations were rather 
pleasurable than otherwise ; the sense of fulness in 
the head soon, however, increased so as to become 
painful, and in less than an hour he had lapsed into a 
state of insensibility, in which situation he remained 
for two hours or two hours and a half. He was 
awakened by headache and painful nausea. The 
nausea continued even after the contents of the 
stomach had been ejected. The pain in the head 
every minute increased ; he was neither feverish nor 
thirsty : his bodily and mental debility were exces- 
sive, and his pulse was feeble and quick. 

In most precise terms the acute effects from 
alcohol are here faithfully depicted by one of the 



340 ON ETHER-DRINKING AND 

finest observers of natural phenomena. The descrip- 
tion reads in a still more striking form when it is 
compared with that of an intoxication produced by 
nitrous oxide gas in the same observer. 

The description of the intoxication from nitrous 
oxide is taken again from a direct experimental and 
personal observation. Sir Humphry breathed nitrous 
oxide for a long time in a closed chamber, and felt 
some effects, which he has chronicled ; but it was not 
until afterwards that the full realisation of his new life 
was experienced. After leaving his ' box ' in which 
he had been breathing the gas, he began to respire 
twenty quarts of the pure gas, and thereupon the 
change of life began. He felt a sense of tangible 
extension in every limb ; his visible impressions were 
dazzling and apparently magnified ; he heard dis- 
tinctly every sound in the room, and was perfectly 
aware of his situation. By degrees, as the pleasur- 
able sensations increased, he lost all connection with 
external things : trains of vivid visible images rapidly 
passed through his mind, and were connected with 
words in such a manner as to produce perceptions 
perfectly novel. He existed in a world of newly con- 
nected and newly modified ideas. He theorised ; he 
imagined that he made discoveries. When he was 
awakened from his semi-delirious trance by his friend 
Dr. Kinglake, who took the inhaling bag from his 



EXTRA-ALCOHOLIC INTOXICATION'. 341 

mouth, indignation and pride were the first feelings 
produced by the sight of the persons about him. His 
emotions were enthusiastic and sublime, and for a 
minute he walked round the room perfectly regardless 
of what was said to him. As he recovered his former 
state of mind, he felt an inclination to communicate 
the discoveries he had made during the experiment. 
He endeavoured to recall the ideas, but they were 
feeble and indistinct : one collection of terms, how- 
ever, presented itself, and, with the most intense 
belief and prophetic manner, he exclaimed to Dr. 
Kinglake, 'Nothing exists but thoughts ! the universe 
is composed of impressions, ideas, pleasures and pains ! ' 

In this narrative we have a description of an 
intoxication refined to the extremest degree, from 
which recovery was rapid, with pleasurable sensations. 
It too is an intoxication the habit of which is easily 
acquired and craved after. 

Sir Humphry Davy was a strong-minded man, by 
nature brave, resolute, wise, self-sacrificing. Yet, after 
he had become somewhat habituated to the taking 
of nitrous oxide for experiment's sake, he was led to 
make confession that fi a desire to breathe the gas 
was always awakened in him by the sight of a person 
breathing, or even by that of an air-bag or gasholder.' 

Methylic and ethylic ethers produce effects which 
contrast with alcohol and compare with nitrous oxide. 



342 ON ETHER-DRINKING AND 

Methylic ether when inhaled is to my mind more 
pleasurable in action than nitrous oxide. I experience 
a sense of suffocation from nitrous oxide which I do 
not from methylic ether; and certainly I can never 
forget the dream which once followed upon inhalation, 
not to complete but to all but complete insensibility, 
of methylic ether gas. It seemed to me as -I came 
under the influence that periods of time were extended 
inimitably. It seemed to me that the space of the 
small room in which I sat was extended into a space 
that could not be measured and yet could be grasped 
and threaded ; as if my powers, mental and physical, 
adapted themselves, for the moment, to the vastness 
of the space. It seemed to me that every sense was 
exalted in perceptive appreciation. The light was 
brilliant beyond expression, yet not oppressive ; the 
ticking of a clock was like a musical clang from a 
cymbal with an echo ; and, things touched felt as 
if some interposing gentle current moved between 
them and the fingers. When the inhalation ceased 
at my own instance, for as my friend, the late Mr. 
Peter Marshall of Bedford Square, who was present, 
told me, I was sufficiently conscious to know when I 
had breathed long enough, when the inhalation 
ceased, the return to the natural state of existence 
was imperceptibly rapid. As in a dissolving view, I 
seemed to pass from one state into another by a 
solution of states ; the dreams faded gradually, giving 



EXTRA-ALCOHOLIC INTOXICATION. 343 

way to the realities of the present, so that for an 
instant I had to ask which was real and which was 
unreal, until the mind was steadied and was once 
again fixed in its old abode. They who have felt 
this condition, who have lived, as it were, in another 
life, however transitorily, are easily led to declare 
with Davy that ' Nothing exists but thoughts ! the 
universe is composed of impressions, ideas, pleasures 
and pains! ' I believe it is so, and that we might by 
scientific art, and there is such an art, learn to live 
altogether in a new sphere of impressions, ideas, 
pleasures and pains. But stay : I am anticipating, 
unconsciously, something else that is in my mind. 
The rest is silence. I must return to the world in 
which we now live and which we all know. 

The action of ethylic ether is in some degree 
similar to that of nitrous oxide and methylic ether, 
but in a grosser sense. The dream is not so refined, 
the insensibility is more prolonged after the fluid ceases 
to be received by the body, and in every stage the 
state produced more closely resembles that produced 
by alcohol. Sometimes, indeed, nausea and even 
vomiting follow on the effect of the ether after the 
consciousness has been restored. In plain terms, we 
have in ethylic ether a heavier substance than we 
have in the two gases. The nitrous oxide gas and 
methylic ether are eliminated from the body in the 
same form as they enter it, as gases. Ethylic ether, 



344 ON ETHER-DRINKING AND 

condensible in the body into its fluid form, is less 
rapid in its diffusion and is less easy of extrication 
from the body. It passes all away as ether, leaving 
the body free of its presence without combining with 
any of the tissues, or more than temporarily interfer- 
ing with the functions of the vital organs ; but, as the 
prolonged odour of it in the breaths of those who have 
taken it shows, it clings longer than its subtler allies 
do to the body. 

The person under ethylic ether has often a furious 
dream, or a foolish dream, or a perturbed sleep of the 
dreams of which he remembers little or nothing when 
he re-enters the world. He very rarely experiences 
ecstasy even when he takes ether that is perfectly 
pure. 

The ether-drinkers who imbibe an impure ether, 
a mixture of methylic and ethylic ethers with a trace 
of alcohol, and with a trace of the hydrocarbons 
which are so unpleasant to smell and taste, experience 
a rapid but not ecstatic intoxication. I have shown 
already how this intoxication differs, objectively and 
subjectively, from the alcoholic intoxication in those 
who take ether by inhalation. I have shown that it 
causes an intense drunkenness so sharply that the 
four stages can hardly be individualised, and so short 
that recovery is all but immediate. Ether has this 
luxurious advantage over alcohol as an intoxicant 



EXTRA-ALCOHOLIC INTOXICATION. 345 

that under it a man may get intoxicated and sober 
some half-dozen times in the twenty-four hours, and 
may start off again for the next twenty-four, suffering 
less than he would suffer from one intoxication, 
equally deep, induced by alcohol. There are persons 
in the ether-drinking districts who really consider 
this to be an advantage, an advantage all the greater 
because the process is not only brighter and sharper, 
but very much cheaper. A good threepennyworth 
of ether is a perfectly satisfactory quantity for one 
luxurious intoxication. The economy of ether-drink- 
ing, by those who like it, needs no further exposition. 
There is one more advantage from ether-bibbing 
over wine and spirit-bibbing, which is most important 
of all. Men and women who steadily indulge in the 
use of alcoholic drinks quickly and certainly attain one 
or other stage of the ' alcoholic constitution.' They 
may call themselves moderate drinkers, but as soon 
as ever they begin to feel that alcohol is a necessity 
and that they cannot abandon it without a struggle, 
they are under its ban, and are to some extent 
physically impaired by it. Their blood-vessels are 
easily congested ; their digestion is readily deranged ; 
their spirits are quickly depressed ; their muscular 
power is rapidly prostrated ; and, they grow, almost 
without exception, prematurely old, dying in the early 
years of the third term of life, that is to say, soon 



346 ON ETHER-DRINKING AND 

after sixty, from kidney disease, heart disease, lung 
disease, brain disease, or some other of the degenera- 
tions of the vital tissues, which in healthier persons need 
not appear until the closing part of the fourth term, that 
is to say, until between eighty and ninety years, accord- 
ing to the present perfect fulfilment of human life. 

The ether- drinkers are not subjected to this same 
strain. Mr. Draper reports that he has heard of some 
whose minds have become affected under ether after 
long and free indulgence in it, and he also refers to 
an example of supposed loss of sight from the same 
cause. I am unable to confirm these rumours. I do 
not think anyone could have had a better authority 
on the subject than I was favoured with, and the 
testimony I received, drawn from a skilled experience 
and observation of twenty-five years, was, that in 
ether-drinking districts the dangers induced by ether 
are invariably the dangers incident to a sudden over- 
dose of the agent. The special organic diseases of 
the body, some of which so invariably follow upon 
the continued taking of alcohol, such as gout, fatty 
degeneration, discolorisation of skin, cirrhosis, phthisis, 
albuminuria, general or local paralysis, these, and 
other conditions of disease, different as affecting 
different organs, but similar in respect to producing 
modification of vital function, and all inducible from 
alcohol, are not induced by ether. It is true that 



* EXTRA-ALCOHOLIC INTOXICATION. 347 

some few ether-drinkers are affected by these diseases 
as if they derived them from the practice of indulging 
in -that fluid ; but on inquiry it is always found that 
the indulgence in ether is combined, in these examples, 
with indulgence also in some form of alcoholic drink, 
usually in whisky. 

The worst physical evils which seem to attend 
indulgence in ether-drinking are dyspepsia and excita- 
bility of mind, producing, in combination, a condition 
closely resembling true hysteria. When the short 
intoxication from ether is over, the person who has 
suffered from it is subject to flatulency, to depression 
and inactivity, and to hysterical disturbances, for 
which the remedy, too frequently sought, is another 
draught of the ether itself, by which the craving 
for it is much intensified. 

The practical experience thus related is fully ex- 
plained by the physiological readings of the action 
of ether, and is confirmed by them to the letter. A 
fluid so comparatively insoluble in the blood and 
other animal fluids, as ether is, is comparatively 
negative in its action. It enters into no durable 
physical combination with any part or structure : it 
undergoes no chemical decomposition in the body : 
volatile as well as insoluble, it is easily liberated 
from the body ; and, after a short time, it leaves the 
body without infliction of permanent injury. 



348 ON ETHER-DRINKING AND 

We know, however, that it is a part of the physio- 
logical action of ether to disturb the stomach even 
when it has been administered by the process of in- 
halation ; and we know further that in some persons 
it leaves hysterical nervous states which may, after 
one prolonged inhalation, remain for several hours. 
In the case of the experimentalist of whom I have 
spoken, who learned the habit of inhaling the vapour 
of ether daily, this hysterical commotion was a 
marked attendant symptom, and was urged, as is so 
commonly the case, as a reason for continuing the 
practice, because of the relief which was so imme- 
diately afforded by a few breaths of ether. The same 
reason, in nearly every instance, is assigned for the 
use of alcohol by the alcoholic community. The 
alcohol keeps up a constant malaise, which nothing so 
effectually removes, at a moment's notice, as alcohol. 
Thus the vicious circle of evil is continued in fatal 
operation. 

Taking it all in all, the history of the ether-drinker 
compares favourably with that of the alcoholic. We 
are so accustomed to witness the action of alcohol in 
our daily life; we see so many thousands making 
the physiological experiment of its use ; we hear so 
constantly the story of its effects ; we have grown up 
so familiar with the praise of its virtues, and so 
callous, if not ignorant, of the reality of its vices ; we 



EXTRA-ALCOHOLIC INTOXICATION-. 349 

are so imbued with the idea of its necessity, and so 
ignorant of the fact of its being no necessity at all 
until it makes the necessity for itself; we are so 
impressed with the favoured protection it affords, 
and so blinded to the open secret of the incalculable 
danger it is ever imposing on the world ; we are so 
disposed towards alcohol in all these points, that 
when we hear of a practice of indulgence in some new 
intoxicant we are led to pity the wretches who are 
so deluded as to resort to that which seems to us so 
unnatural. 

I doubt not most alcoholic tasters will pity and 
criticise the ether-drinkers of the north of Ireland. I 
dare say they will feet that the good priests of those 
parts are performing a noble work in their endeavours, 
which are incessant, to exclude the ether bottle from 
their parishes. With that sentiment I as candidly 
concur. I rejoice to hear and to know that the efforts 
of the priests are being successfully rewarded. If, 
however, by these efforts the whisky bottle begins 
again to replace the ether bottle ; if, instead of in- 
dulging in the light delirium of ether, the converts are 
to resort to the heavy delirium of alcohol, then the 
conversion will be simply from one evil back to 
another evil that is greater and more inflicting in its 
sins and its penalties both to the individual and to 
the community. I mean that in proportion to the 

16 



350 ON ETHER-DRINKING AND 

physiological wrong done by the agent used, the 
physical and moral wrongs will multiply and increase. 

Let not this view, however, be accepted as an 
apology for ether-drinking, or as an excuse for it. It 
is a bad practice, though there may be others that 
are worse. The ether-drinker -is recurrently an 
irrational being incapable of perfect trust, and in so 
far as his indulgence is gratified, is demoralised. He 
also is exposed to personal danger, for the dose that 
proves fatal is easily reached, and if he were to 
become the representative of the millions of society, 
sudden death from ether would be an every-day 
phenomenon. 

The grand object of the true reformer should be 
to suppress all sources of physiological wrong, the 
lighter as well as the heavier, the whisky bottle and 
the ether bottle, and all other similar bottles that lead 
to similar physical -and moral inaptitudes for moral 
and healthy life, with equal promptitude and 
decision. 

I showed at the opening of this address that the 
lower animals can be taught to drink alcohol, and not 
only to drink it, but in time to crave for it, and to 
take it preferentially to natural food. I may add 
that, in a similar manner, the lower animals can be 
taught to take ether and to crave for it. 

Some years ago, when I was giving lectures on the 



EXTRA-ALCOHOLIC INTOXICATION. 351 

action of anaesthetic vapours, I had a pigeon which 
would walk into the anaesthetising chamber of its 
own accord as readily as it would go into its cage or 
climb on to its perch, and which would compose 
itself to the anaesthetic sleep at once with the most 
perfect equanimity. To the lookers-on this proceed- 
ing of the bird was a cause of astonishment and 
sometimes amusement. The truth, however, was that 
the animal in question had acquired a liking and 
craving for the anaesthetic vapours. Like all regular 
topers, it had its particular tastes, and preferred the 
vapour of methylene bichloride to that of ethylic ether 
or amylene. But in the absence of one vapour it 
would always put up with another ; and whenever it 
was brought near the etherising box it would fly to it 
and get into it as quickly as it could, and the more 
eagerly if any odour of vapour were diffused in it. I 
give this as one illustration because it was so dis- 
tinctly marked, and will be so well remembered by 
many who attended my demonstrations. It is, 
nevertheless, only one of its kind, and it is not excep- 
tional beyond the novelty of first seeing it or hearing 
of it. There is no domestic animal, I believe, that 
could not be taught to acquire the craving for intoxi- 
cating vapours and intoxicating fluids. 

Haply some hoary-headed swain may say that these 
facts about craving for intoxicants are proofs direct 



352 ON ETHER-DRINKING AND 

that all the living creation craves for stimulants, and 
that stimulants therefore, are a part of the necessities of 
life. The argument in its application to men is often 
used because it is rather a convenient argument than a 
logical. If the craving were really a natural act, ' the 
interpretation of an instinct/ as one wise man has 
defined it, then it seems to me that natural law in 
this matter is an exceptionally confused and contra- 
dictory law, something nearer human than anything 
else that can be found in other parts of the domain of 
nature. If it be natural to crave for these things, 
why does not the craving begin before the things are 
known, and why should the craving be extended 
towards substances which none but persons advanced 
in knowledge could ever possess ? The craving after 
ether, for example, when it has once been excited, 
may be as urgent in an unlettered peasant who does 
not even know that there is such a science as che- 
mistry, as it would be in a learned chemist who 
knows that in order to produce an ether he must first 
produce an alcohol, a strong acid, and an elaborate 
apparatus, for the discovery of which some centuries 
of research must needs have intervened between the 
craving for it and its gratification. Nay, the craving 
when it has been excited may be as urgent in a lower 
animal as in the unenlightened peasant or the wise 
philosopher. 



EXTRA-ALCOHOLIC INTOXICATION. 353 

All things that are truly natural are naturally 
provided, and there is not a single natural necessity 
that is not naturally and bountifully supplied. We 
can modify all these and create a craving for the 
modification. We can modify the air so that what 
we breathe produces a different mode of existence ; 
and for that? very modification we can create such a 
craving, that the greatest of philosophers and the 
poorest of lower animals may long for the new life, 
and feel such an irresistible desire to breathe the new 
life, that whenever the mere means for accomplishing 
that desire are suggested, even by the sight of the 
means, the desire is all aglow. To my mind the 
evidence is conclusive that this craving, whenever it 
is indicated, is the crucial sign of aberration from 
nature ; that it has no connection with the truly 
natural life, but is the interpretation of a morbid 
habit, acquired by man out of his own inventions, 
and communicable by man to other men and other 
animals lower than himself; that comparable in no 
sense with the divine schemes which he did not invent, 
it is as far apart from them and out of harmony with 
them, as it is far apart from his good and out of har- 
mony with it. In a word, that whoever craves beyond 
his wants, whoever makes craving the object of his life, 
is aberrant is no longer in the ranks of the survivals 
of the fittest ; and in craving at all is craving for death. 



354 ON ETHER-DRINKING, ETC. 

The history of ether-drinking which I have 
narrated is a singular phase of social life in this 
century, and as such alone is worthy of record. It is 
still more worthy of record as a study of life under 
aberration ; of the extent to which man can indulge 
in the freedom of his own inventions ; of the desires 
he can gratify by his own inventions ; and, of the end 
and result of the gratification. It, with much more 
that is akin to it, tells us that, free as we are when we 
are running in concert with Nature, we are stopped 
whenever we try to go our own way ; that so soon as 
we strive to make a nature of our own, or to alter the 
bases of Nature, so soon are we landed on the im- 
possible ; that if we try to invent no more than a 
change of dreams, fascinating as may be the attempt, 
we must, in the process, either become unintelligible 
one to the other or sink into the universal silence. 



DISEASES OF MODERN LIFE. 

By B. W. RICHARDSON, M.D. 



1 vol., 12mo, Cloth, S2O pages, - $2.OO. 



From the Tribune. 

" He has no affinity with the class of old-women doctors who are eternally fussing 
and dosing, and with their infallible prescriptions break down more constitutions than 
all the skill of the faculty can repair. His principal aim is to point out the causes which 
lead to disease, and to prevent its occurrence by observing the physical laws which are 
the conditions of health." 

From Nature. 

" The work is of great value as a practical guide to enable the reader to detect and 
avoid various sources of disease, and it contains, in addition, several introductory chap- 
ters on natural life and natural death, the phenomena of disease, disease antecedent to 
birth, and on the effects of the seasons, of atmospheric temperature, of atmospheric 
pressure, of moisture, "winds, and atmospheric chemical changes, which are of great 
general interest." 

From the Charleston Courier. 

" In this valuable and deeply-interesting work Dr. Richardson treats the nervous 
system as the very principle of life; and he shows how men do it violence, yet expect 
immunity where the natural sentence is death." 

From the Toledo Chronicle. 

" His aim in the book under consideration is to teach the li\ ing generations to so 
conduct themselves, and avoid and prevent disease, that death will not come prematurely, 
as is almost generally the case at the present time. His work contains many useful and 
valuable hints, suggestions, and directions, and they are put in r.uch good and readabl* 
shape that one does not tire in studying them." 

From the Boston Commonwealth. 

"Particular attention is given to diseases from worry and mental strain, from the 
passions, from alcohol, tobacco, narcotics, foods, impure air, late hours, and broken 
sleep, idleness, intermarriage, etc., thus touching upon causes which do not enter into 
the consideration of sickness." 



D. APPLETON & CO., Publishers, 

549 & 551 BROADWAY, NEW YORK. 



"A rich list of fruitful topics." 

BOSTON COMMONWEALTH. 



HEALTH AND EDUCATION, 

By the REV. CHARLES KINGSLEY, F. L. S., F. G. S., 

CANON OF WESTMINSTER. 

I2mo. Cloth. ...... Price, $1.75. 

" It b most refreshing to meet an earnest soul, and such, preeminently, is Charles 
Kingsley, and he has shown himself such in every thing he has written, from ' Alton 
Locke ' and ' Village Sermons,' a quarter of a century since, to the present volume, which 
is no exception. Here are fifteen Essays and Lectures, excellent and interesting in 
different degrees, but all exhibiting the author's peculiar characteristics of thought 
and style, and some of them blending most valuable instruction with entertainment, 
as few living writers can." Hartford Post. 

" That the title of this book is not expressive of its actual contents, is made mani- 
fest by a mere glance at its pages ; it is, in fact, a collection of Essays and Lectures, 
written and delivered upon various occasions by its distinguished author; as such it 
cannot be otherwise than readable, and no intelligent mind needs to be assured that 
Charles Kingsley is fascinating, whether he treats of Gothic Architecture, Natural 
History, or the Education of Women. The lecture on Thrift, which was intended for 
the women of England, may be read with profit and pleasure by the women of 
everywhere." St. Louis Democrat. 

41 The book contains exactly what every one needs to know, and in a form which 
every one can understand." Boston Journal. 

" This volume no doubt contains his best thoughts on all the most important topics 
of the day." Detroit Post. 

"Nothing could be better or more entertaining for the family library." Zioris 
Herald. 

" For the style alone, and for the vivid pictures frequently presented, this latest 
production of Mr. Kingsley commends itself to readers. The topics treated are 
mostly practical, but the manner is always the manner of a master in composition. 
Whether discussing the abstract science of health, the subject of ventilation, the 
education of the different classes that form English society, natural history, geology, 
heroic aspiration, superstitious fears, or personal communication with Nature, we 
find the same freshness of treatment, and the same eloquence and affluence of language 
that distinguish the productions in other fields of this gifted author." Boston Gazette. 

D. APPLETON & CO., Publishers, 

549 & 55* BROADWAY. N. Y. 



HEALTH PRIMERS. 



J. LANGDON DOWN, M. D., F. R. C. P. 
HENRY POWER, M. B., F. R. C. S. 
J. MORTIMER-GRANVILLE, M. D. 
JOHN TWEEDY, F. R. C. S. 

THOUGH it is of the greatest importance that books upon health 
should be in the highest degree trustworthy, it is notorious that most 
of the cheap and popular kind are mere crude compilations of incom- 
petent persons, and are often misleading and injurious. Impressed by 
these considerations, several eminent medical and scientific men of Lon- 
don have combined to prepare a series of HEALTH PRIMERS of a character 
that shall be entitled to the fullest confidence. They are to be brief, 
simple, and elementary in statement, filled with substantial and useful 
information suitable for the guidance of grown-up people. Each primer 
will be written by a gentleman specially competent to treat his subject, 
while the critical supervision of the books is in the hands of a committee 
who will act as editors. 

As these little books are produced by English authors, they are 
naturally based very much upon English experience, but it matters little 
whence illustrations upon such subjects are drawn, because the essential 
conditions of avoiding disease and preserving health are to a great degree 
everywhere the same. 

VOLUMES OF THE SERIES. 

Exercise and Training-. (Illus- 



trated.) 

Alcohol: Its Use and Abuse. 
The House and its Surround- 



ingrs * The Skin and its Troubles. 



Premature Death: Its Promo- 
tion or Prevention. 

Personal Appearances in 
Health and Disease. (Illus- 
trated.) 

Baths and Bathing. 



The Heart and its Functions. 
The Head. 
Clothing- and Dress. 
Water. 



Fatigue and Pain. 
The Ear and Hearing-. 
The Eye and Vision. 
Temperature in Health and 
Disease. 



In square 16mo volumes, cloth, price, 40 cents each. 



For sale by all booksellers. Any volume mailed, post-paid, to any ad- 
dress in tfie United States, on receipt of price. 

D. APPLETON & CO., PUBLISHERS, 

549 & 551 BROADWAY, NEW YORK. 



HEALTH, 



AND 



HOW TO PROMOTE IT. 

By RICHARD McSHERRY, M. D., 

Professor of Principles and Practice of Medicine, University of Maryland ; Member ol 
American Medical Association; President of .Baltimore Academy of Medicine. 



Extract from Preface. 

" Hygiene, public and private, has become, of late years, one of the 
most important elements of modern civilization. It is a subject in which 
all maukind has an interest, even if it be, as it too often is, an uncon- 
scious interest. 

" The present work is addressed to the general reader, no matter 
what his pursuit, and the language is such as any physician may use in 
conversation with an intelligent patient ; it is therefore as free as such a 
work can be made from scientific technicalities. 

" It is offered as a contribution to a great cause, and the writer trusts 
that it will have some influence in promoting the health, happiness, and 
welfare of all who may honor it with a careful perusal. The principles 
advocated have been, to a great extent, put in practice in the personal 
experience of the writer in various parts of the world, and under many 
vicissitudes, and he has found them to be not vague theories, but prac- 
tical truths of the greatest importance." 



OOUXTTZEUXTTS. 
PART I. INTRODUCTORY REMARKS. 

Hygiene the Better Part of Medicine. The Four Divisions of Human Life: The 
First Quarter, or the First Score of Years. The Young Man ; the Young 
Woman. The Man ; the Woman. The Declining or Old Man. 

PART IL-HTOIENICS IN SOME DETAIL. 

Race, Temperaments, and Idiosyncrasies. Inheritance. Habit. Constitution. 
The Air we Breathe. Sewers and Cesspools. Ozone. Malaria. Aninmi 
Emanations. Devitalized House- Air. Water. Clothing. Exercise or 
Work. Influence of Occupation upon Longevity. Limit to Lahor. The 
Food of Man. Accessory Food. Manner of Eati'njr. Tea and Coffee. Al- 
cohol. Use and Abuse. Ardent Spirits. Wines. Malt-Liquors. Tobacco. 
Chewing and Smoking should be forbidden in School. Report of Naval 
Surgeons. 



One volume, 12mo. Cloth. Price, $1.23. 



D. APPLETON & CO., PUBLISHERS, 549 & 551 BROADWAY, N Y 



WORKS OF AUSTIN FLINT, Jr., M. D. 



The Physiology of Man ; designed to represent the 
Existing State of Physiological Science, as applied to the Functions 
of the Human Body. Complete in 5 vols., 8vo. Cloth, $22.00; 
sheep, $27.00 ; or, per volume, cloth, $4.50 ; sheep, $5.50. 

Vol. I. INTRODUCTION) THE BLOOD; CIRCULATION; KESPIBATION. 
Vol. II. ALIMENTATION; DIGESTION; ABSORPTION; LYMPH AND CHYLE. 
Vol. in. SECRETION; EXCRETION; DUCTLESS GLANDS; NUTRITION; ANIMAL 

HEAT; MOVEMENTS; VOICE AND SPEECH. 
Vol. IV. THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 
Vol. V. SPECIAL SENSES; GENERATION. 
GENERAL INDEX TO THE WORK. 

"The work is free from technicalities and purely professional terms, and, 
instead of only being adapted to the use of the medical faculty, will be found of 
interest to the general reader who desires clear and concise information on the 
subject of man physical." New York Evening Post. 

The Physiological Effects of Severe and Pro- 
tracted Muscular Exercise; with Special Reference to its 
Influence upon the Excretion of Nitrogen. 1 vol., 12mo. Cloth, $1.00. 

A Text-book of Human Physiology; designed 

for the Use of Practitioners and Students of Medicine. Illustrated 
by three Lithographic Plates, and three hundred and thirteen Wood- 
cuts. 1 vol., imperial 8vo. Cloth, $6.00 ; sheep, $7.00. 

On the Source of Muscular Power. Arguments 

and Conclusions drawn from Observations upon the Human Subject, 
under Conditions of Rest and of Muscular Exercise. 1 vol., 12mo. 
Cloth, $1.00. 



D. APPLETON & CO., PUBLISHERS, 649 & 551 BROADWAY, N. Y. 



APPLETO^S' PEEIODICALS. 



Appletons' Journal : 

A Magazine of General Literature. Subscription, $3.00 per annum ; single copy. 
25 cents. The volumes begin January and July of each year. 

The Art Journal : 

An International Gallery of Engravings by Distinguished Artists of Europe and 
America. "With Illustrated Papers in the various branches of Art. Each vol- 
ume contains the monthly numbers for one year. Subscription, $9.00. 

The Popular Science Monthly : 

Conducted by E. L. and "W. J. YoifaANS. Containing instructive and inter- 
esting articles and abstracts of articles, original, selected, and illustrated, from 
the pens of the leading scientific men of different countries. Subscription, to 
begin at any time, $5.00 per annum; single copy, 50 cents. The volumes begin 
May and November of each year. 

The North American Review : 

Published Monthly. Containing articles of general public interest, it is a forum 
for their full and free discussion. It is cosmopolitan, and true to its ancient 
motto it is the organ of no sect, or party, or school. Subscription, $5.00 per 
annum ; single copy, 50 cents. 

The New York Medical Journal: 

Edited by JAMES B. HUNTER, M. D. Subscription, $4.00 per annum ; single 
copy, 40 cents. 



O IL, TJ IB IRA-TIES. 

POSTAGE PAID. 

APPLFTONS' JOURNAL and THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY, together, $7.00 per 
annum (full price, $8.00); and NORTH AMERICAN REVIEW, $11.50 per annum (full 
price, $13.00). THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY and NEW YORK MEDICAL JOURNAL, 
together, $8.00 per annum (full price, $9.00) ; and NORTH AMERICAN REVIEW, $12.50 
per annum (full price, $14.00). APPLETONS' JOURNAL and NEW YORK MEDICAL JOUR- 
NAL, together, $6.50 per annum (full price, $7.00); and NORTH AMERICAN REVIEW 
$10.75 per annum (full price, $12.00). THE POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY and NORTH 
AMERICAN REVIEW, together, $9.00 per annum (full price, $10.00). APPLETONS' JOUR- 
NAL and NORTH AMERICAN REVIEW, together, $7.00 per annum (full price, $8.00). 
NEW YORK MEDICAL JOURNAL and NORTH AMERICAN REVIEW, together, $8.00 per 
annum (full price, $9.00). 



D. APPLETON & CO., Publishers, 549 & 551 Broadway, New York. 










University of Toronto 
Library 



DO NOT 

REMOVE 

THE 

CARD 

FROM 

THIS 

POCKET 




Acme Library Card Pocket 

Uder P*t "Rel. ladtt File" 
Made by LIBRARY BUREAU 



