Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 



[iiiiiniiiii 

^ 60007A466X 


r\ 


H^A^^^H^^^^I 






ril 


fy^y^ 


r ^M 



•■\ 



».• 



A 



'\ 



, 1-; 



9, 



' 1 



MARGARET SIM'S COOKERY. 



MARGARET SIM'S 
COOKERY. 



WITH AN INTRODUCTION 



BY 



L. B, WALFORD, 

AUTHOR or "MR SMITH: A PART OF HIS LIFE," "PAULINE,*' AND "COUSINS." 



HELENSBURGH: MACNEUR & BRYDEN 

GLASGOW AND EDINBURGH : JOHN MENZIES & CO. 
LONDON : HOULSTON & SONS. 

1879. 



L^ . I 



2b?. 4r. 22 5. 




CONTENTS. 



Introduction, 
Soups, 

Fish, 

Sauces, 
Fish ENTRfeES, 
Meat ENTRjfcES, 
Poultry, ... 
Beefs, 

V htAxij • • • > • • 

Mutton, ... 

-uAMB, ... ... 

xORK, ... ... 

Venison, ... 
Vegetables, 

irAME, • • • ... 

OALADS, ... • .« 

Sandwiches, 
Sundry Preparations, 
Savouries, ... 
Puddings, ... 

£LLI£S, ... • • • 

V</R£ ABlS, . • • • • . 

LV/lfit!), • • • • • • 

Cakes and Biscuits, 
Jams and Jellies, ... 
Miscellaneous Recipes, 

JLNDEX, ... ... 



Paok 
ix. 

5 
24 
40 
56 
63 
91 
99 
105 
108 
112 
114 
118 
122 
180 
136 
143 
152 
155 
158 
166 
194 
200 
204 
210 
225 
231 
239 



%• 



INTRODUCTION. 



n* 






''Peace, and Plenty, and Repose, 
Slam the door on the Doctor's nose. 




THE FATHER OF THE FAMILY. 



^* Indigestion is the conscience of the stomach." — Owen Meredith, 

It is a fact which no one will be inclined to dispute, 
that the whole household suffers, and is made to suffer, 
when the Father of the Family is out of sorts, out 
of spirits, or out of temper. From him generates the 
social atmosphere of the circle ; around him — as their 
centre, their sun, their light, their heat, — ^his satellites 
revolve. 

Is he bland, genial, jocose ? They bask in sunshine. 
Is he surly, and mute ? They hang their heads, and 
cower before the anticipated storm. Above all things 
it is necessary to the happiness of their daily life, that 
his equanimity should be undisturbed ; that his spirit 
should be at ease ; not vexed by any adverse winds ; 
not provoked to wrath, by any unreasonable irritations. 

Great is his position ; absolute his authority. 

Heavens 1 what a sceptre he wields 1 Hasten to 
bow the knee before him, underlings. Propitiate the 
monarch with soothing flatteries, well-timed ministra- 



X. Introduction. 



tions. Thrust forth irom his sight aught that would 
ruffle, or annoy. 

Father of the Family! It is a noble appellation. 
And within each mortal frame there dwells— exalted on 
this pedestal, exercising this prerogative — an invisible 
corporeal engine for good, or ill,— a power accessible to 
every outward influence, — ^yet, in himself, influencing 
' more directly, and inflexibly, all the other members of 
the body. 

Has he been fatigued, or overtaxed 1 They pay the 
penalty. Has he been neglected, and despised % They 
smart. Has he been insulted with gross, imsuitable, 
ill-advised offerings ? They reap in tears. 

Friends and readers, whatever else you have, and 
whatever you have not, each, even to the poorest 
among you, possesses (oft doth he wish he did not !), 
a stomach. 

It is this stomach who, " monarch of all he surveys," 
determines, more than any outward circumstance, 
more than literature, or science, or the fine arts, or 
riches, or fame, or beauty, or kinsfolk, or country, or 
climate, the content or uneasiness of your days as they 
pass. 

You want but " daily bread;" and if you offer your 
inward potentate that bread, soaked in ill-nurtured 
compounds, sodden in grease, you had need beware! 
You desire to save your time, — a precious gift, it is true, 



Introduction. xi. 



when turned to good and useful purposes ; but if you 
scrimp it from your hasty meals, gulping down the 
food before you, hot, reeking, audi but half masticated, 
you had best beware 1 You are anxious to keep a clear 
head during the day, and to enjoy well-earned repose 
subsequently ; but if you defer your hour of dining 
till the weary brain is worn out, till the limbs fail, and 
you are so faint with fasting that you take no pleasure 
in the companionship of those dearest to you, no in- 
terest in their pursuits, are impatient even of their 
voices, you may well beware, if you never stood upon 
yoiur guard until that moment. 

The heavy, long-sustained banquet may indeed stave 
off your ill-humour for the nonce, and render you less of a 
bear in your demeanour to those present, less snarling 
and sarcastic in your remarks on those absent, than you 
have been throughout the previous hours; but the 
Nemesis is at your heels, dogging every onward step. ' 

Trifle with your business, your property, your time, 
and your friends — trifle, I say, with all of these, if you 
are fool enough; but, fool or not, lend an ear to him 
who would warn you from trifling with your stomach. 

It is too weighty a matter, this. Your words, your 
actions, your very thoughts and motives come within 
his jurisdiction. Temper owns his sway ; sleep is his 
subject. He prompts the bitter jest, the fretful com- 
plaint. 



xii. Introduction. 



The letter, which was so much more indignant and 
reproachful than it need have been, — ^the sarcasm, which 
its recipient will never forget, since it pierced between 
the very joints of the armour, was due to his interven- 
tion. 

Presently you will yourself acknowledge that you 
wrote in haste, unadvisedly ; that you said more than 
you meant ; that you did not know what possessed you 
at the moment to be so wrathful. And by and bye, 
on this reflection, supervenes the memory of a headache, 
and the thought of that aching head suggests the very 
root of the matter, though it be only casually, and in 
parenthesis, that you observe that you "fancy some- 
thing had disagreed" with you. 

Even sOj friendships are blasted, opportunities are 
slighted, appointments are broken, and misunderstand- 
ings are rife, — yea, lives themselves, here and there, are 
marred throughout, from the seed sown by some tiny 
germ of indigestion — "something having disagreed" 
with the eater. 

« 

Give heed, then, to these three precepts, sufferers : 
eat regularly, eat moderately, eat properly. 

Each of these rules is essential to keep the Father 
of the Family in that state of health, and complacency, 
which shall diffuse joy and gladness throughout his 
lawful territory. 

Let four hours, as a customary thing, pass between 



Introduction, xiii. 



each meal, bo as to permit the autocrat within leisure 
for repose, for recruiting his energies, and gathering in 
fresh vigour. His pleasant functions re-commenced, do 
not thrust these upon him all at once, in a motley crowd — 
an inharmonious rabble. Judge, discriminate, assort, with 
nice and deliberate observation; lest, hurt and over- 
charged, outraged and disgusted, he take his revenge 
straightway. And, lastly, with respectful and measured 
tread — slowly and as it were, reluctantly, let all who 
would approach his presence-chamber, enter therein. 

He loves not to have his privacy intruded upon, with 
indecent precipitation. Haste beseemeth not that sacred 
region ; tranquillity should reign there. 

In other words, confine the indidgence of your ap- 
petites to three meals a-day, forswear gluttony, and use 
your teeth for the purpose for which they were created. 

But, say some, all these precautions we have kept 
from childhood, and of what avail are they, when the food 
which is spread on our tables is unfit to be swallowed 
at all I The materials are simple and nutritious ; but 
in the preparation not only are these attributes lost, 
but their other extremes are attained, — there is poison 
in the dish, — death in the pot. An ignorant, and un- 
witting hand is shortening our days. 

Now, we reply, is the time for the cookery-book. 
By diligent appKcation, and repeated experiments, on 
the part of the servant who would fain do better herself, 



xiv. Introduction, 



but knows not how — and by patience and forbearance 
on that of her master and mistress, a blundering kit- 
chen-maid may, and has not unfrequently been, turned 
into an excellent, skilful, and thorough-going chef-de- 
cuisine. In the volume now before us, Mrs Sim, who 
is housekeeper at Kossdhu (the seat of Sir James Col- 
quhoun, of Oolquhoun and Luss, and now tenanted by 
his uncle, Mr William Colquhoun), gives, as the result of 
her own experience, a series of recipes which have the 
value of having been well tested, and approved of, by 
many a connoisseur. She aims at the discouragement of 
profuse expenditure, and multifarious ingredients in the 
art, and at the establishment of sound, wholesome, pala- 
table dishes, which can be made daily in any house of 
ordinary importance. Smart-looking, highly-spiced, 
vamped-up mixtures are easily producible, but sadly 
unsatisfactory. The compound, if it be a compound, 
should at no hazard be dependent on savoury season- 
ing, or show of finery, for its recommendation. These, 
if the groundwork be of solid excellence, may, to some 
palates, add an attraction, but if the basis be poor, they 
can never supply one. 

It is the watchful eye, the precise fingers, the con- 
centrated attention, which make the cook. A recipe 
hastily skimmed through, and only half followed, is 
best let alone. Many a youthful mistress, who cannot 
understand why the entrU which she had so carefully 



Introduction. 



XV. 



selected for her third course, and which sounded so 
reliable when read aloud beforehand, should appear at 
table an uneatable mess, — would be at no loss, had she 
witnessed its manufacture. Her cook glanced at the 
page ; it was too much trouble to send to the gardener 
for one seasoning, so she tried another. The time 
given for the pan to be on the fire was longer than she 
could afford ; so she thought it no matter to dock off 
half-an-hour. They were short of eggs, so she con- 
sidered one less than was named in the recipe would 
be sufficient. And so on, with the result as stated 
above. 

Mrs Sim will have none of this. If she is not carefully 
studied, and exactly followed, the responsibility is off 
her shoulders. The spirit, as well as the letter of the 
law, must be adhered to in the admirable directions 
here issued. If she is not taken at her word, her 
decrees received without reservations, her rules carried 
out without alteration, she would prefer to be without 
disciples. 

L. B. WALFORD. 



r 



R 









«^ 



SOUPS. 



Soup made from Dried Turtle. 

Soak one pound of dried turtle meat in cold water 
for twenty-four hours, cut up fourteen pounds of beef- 
hough and one fowl; place all the meat in a convenient- 
sized stock-pot, and fill it up with cold water, and place 
it on a hot plate or over a slow fire. Add two carrots, 
six onions, one stalk of celery, six cloves, two blades 
of mace, and a few pepper-corns ; then add the turtle- 
meat; boil the stock very gently for eight hours; re- 
move the pieces of turtle from the pot, wash them in 
lukewarm water, and place them between two flat 
dishes until they are wanted; strain the stock through 
a hair sieve, and let it stand in the larder until the 
next day, when it must be clarified. Remove every 
particle of fat firom the stock; mince two pounds of 
lean beef, and mix it with the stock and the whites of 
four eggs beat up with their shells, a little parsley, 
green onions, sweet basil, sweet marjorum, a sprig of 
lemon-thyme, three blades of tarragon, and a handful 
of button-mushrooms. When the stock has boiled 
about a minute, draw the pot to the side of the stove ; 
let it remain there for half-an-hour to clear and infuse 
the herbs ; then sti'ain through a tammy sieve or cloth ; 

B 



6 Soups. 

add the pieces of turtle, cut in nice square pieces 
without waste ; fill a tureen with the soup, season 
slightly with salt, cayenne pepper, a little lemon juice, 
and a glass of Madeira wine. 

The remainder of the soup should be put in a stone 
jar, and kept in a cool place. When wanted, place the 
jar in a pan with cold water, and set it on the stove 
until the water boils. By that time the soup will be hot. 
Season with cayenne, lemon juice, and wiae. 

Tomato Soup. 

Take a goodnsized knuckle of veal, and cut it into 
pieces. Place them into a small stock pot ; add three 
quarts of water, half-a-pound of split peas, three 
onions, one carrot, a small turnip, one stalk of celery, 
a blade of mace, a few white pepper-corns, and a little 
salt. Place the pot on the stove or a slow fire, and 
boil gently for about four hours. Then strain through 
a fine wire sieve, and remove the scum. Slice about a 
pound of ripe tomatoes; put them into a small stew- 
pan, with two ounces of firesh butter. Season with 
pepper and salt, andjstew till tender. Then add them 
to the stocky and pour the soup into a clean pan. Boil 
for ten minutes, and skim it well. Ascertain that the 
soup is well seasoned. When about to dish, add a tea- 
spoonful of vinegar and a teacupfal of sweet cream, 
then serve hot. 

Venison Soup. 

Take a deer's head and neck, shank bones, and all 
the odd pieces of venison you can collect ; wash them 



Soups. 7 

in cold water, then place them in a stock pot, with four 
carrots, two turnips, six red onions in their skins, two 
blades of mace, six cloves, two stalks of celery, a sprig 
of thyme, black pepper-corns, and a little salt ; fill the 
pot np with cold water. When it boils skim off all the 
scnm ; let it boil slowly for eight or ten hours ; then 
strain the stock through a hair sieve, and set it in the 
larder to cool. When quite cold and firm, remove the 
fat from the top of the soup, and dab it over with a 
clean cloth rung out of hot water. Mince up about a 
pound and a-half of lean, raw venison, and the -whites 
of three eggs beat up with their shells. Let all be 
mixed together, and put into a pan and placed 
on the stove, and stirred until it boils; then draw 
it to the side of the stove to boil slowly for about ten 
minutes. Then strain it through a tammy sieve or 
cloth, into a clean pan. Season the soup with a table- 
spoonful of catsup, a little cayenne pepper and salt. 
Make a custard of three yolks of eggs and a breakfast 
cupful of boiling milk, seasoned with a little pepper 
and salt. Butter a pudding mould and pour the 
custard into it; place it in a pan with boiling water, but 
not on any account to boil after it ik put in. When 
the custard is firm turn it out on a dish, and cut it in 
slices about an inch thick. With fancy tin cutter cut 
up all the custard into shapes, and add them to the 
soup, and serve it hot. 

Heron Soup. 

Skin and draw two herons, remove the fillets from 
their breasts, and place them in a saucepan with a piece 



8 Soups. 

of butter; stew until tender. Cut up the remainder of 
the herons in small pieces, place them in a soup-pan 
with a handful of green onions^ small bunch of parsley^ 
sprig of thyme, same of sweet marjorum, and basil; 
add one blade of mace and six cloves. Sprinkle over 
Tvith white pepper and salt. Place the soup-pan on the 
stove, and brown the meat slightly. Then cover the 
meat well with boiling water. Place the cover on the 
pan, and allow it to boil for about three hours. Then 
strain the stock through a hair sieve. Poimd the fillets 
in a mortar ; rub through a hair sieve. Add the puree 
to the stock. Pour the soup into a pan. Allow it to 
boil for a few minutes. Bemove the scum ; add pepper 
and salt to taste. Serve hot 

Clear Brown Soup. 

Take an ox hough about fourteen or sixteen pounds 
weight; cut it up in pieces along with the bones, 
and put it into a stock-pot ; fill the pot with cold water ; 
then add two carrots, one turnip, one stalk of celery, 
one ounce whole black pepper, six red onions, one sprig 
of thyme, one sprig of sweet marjorum, a very small 
sprig of basil, and 'a little salt. Place the cover on the 
pot, and set it on the hot-plate or clear fire ; when it 
boils, remove the scum with a spoon ; allow it to boil 
very slowly for eight or nine hours, taking care not to 
let it off the boil. If the process of boiling reduce it 
very much, a little boiling water must be added. After 
it has boiled the time^specified, strain the stock through 
a tammy-sieve into large earthen jars or basins ; put 
them away in a cool larder. When the soup is wanted. 



Soups. 9 

skim ofi all the fat, and boil the soup ; add a little catsup, 
oajenne pepper, and salt to taste. 

SECOND STOCK. 

Betnm into the stock- pot all the meat and bones 
that had been used for the first stock ; cover the meat 
well with hot water ; add a little salt, and boil the stock 
for six hours ; strain it through a hair sieve, and keep 
it in a cool place. When wanted, skim off all the fat. 
This stock is usefiil for making common soups, gravies, 
stews, and hashes. When it is wanted clear, mince some 
raw lean beef, and the whites of two or three eggs beat up 
with the shells ; mix all together with the cold stock, and 
pour it into a pan placed upon the hot-plate, and stir 
occasionally until it boils. Remove all the scum as it rises, 
then strain the stock through a tammy-sieve. It ought 
to be as clear as the first stock, although not so strong. 
Good fresh stock is the foundation of all soups. 

Almond Soup. 

Cut out the breast of a fowl, mince and pound it in 
the mortar ; add the white of an egg ; then pound for 
five minutes, add another white ; go on pounding till it 
becomes smooth and tough. Form balls the size and 
form of almonds. Have a pan with boiling water on 
the hot-plate, add a little salt to the water ; have the 
almonds seasoned with salt and white pepper to taste. 
Poach them for ten minutes ; boil some of first stock. 
Add the almonds, and serve. 

Spring Soup. 
Have a good stock prepared, as for brown soup. 
Take a bunch of asparagus; cut the green ends in 



I o Soups. 

small bits ; a few green peas, with Bmall sprigs of 
cauliflower, some small onions, one turnip, and one 
carrot ; take a small cutter and scoop out some pieces 
from the turnip and pink of the carrot ; boil these 
vegetables separately, and add to the soup. 

Macaroni Soup. 

Take a handful of macaroni, and soak in cold water 
for an hour ; then boil it till tender, strain it, and let it 
cool; then cut in pieces a quarter of an inch thicks 
to appear like plain rings ; add these to the first stock, 
and serve. Vermicelli, boiled for five minutes, is also 
used for brown soup. 

Ox-Tail Soup. 

Take two pounds of soup meat, and two ox-tails ; 
put on in a pan with cold water; season as for brown 
soup ; skim when it comes to the boil, and boil till 
the tails are thoroughly cooked; cut out some of the 
middle joints ; strain the soup ; set away to cool ; when 
cold take off the fat ; boil the soup ; add the joints. 
You may add vegetables cut in stripes if liked. 

Clear Mock Turtle Soup. 

Take a calf s head, see that it is very fi-esh, lay it in 
cold water, squeeze out all the blood, take a large pot 
that will contain it easily, split the head in two, put it 
into the pot, cover it with cold water, set it on the 
stove ; then add one pound raw ham, two carrots, three 
onions, and also one onion stuck with six cloves, a head 
of celery, small sprig of basil, sweet marjorum, lemon 
thyme, common thyme, some parsley, spiing onions, and 



Soups. 1 1 

two blades of mace, one oimce white pepper. When 
the pot boils take the sctun off; boil slowly for two 
hours ; if the flesh is boiled, remove it from the bones ; 
put the meat to the larder to cool ; return the bones to 
the stock pot, and boil for another hoar ; then strain it 
through a hair sieve ; let the stock become cold and 
take all the fat off. You must now begin and clear it : 
mince one pound and a half of lean veal ; beat up the 
whites of three eggs with their shells ; mix this with 
the cold stocky put it in a pan, set on the stove, and 
whisk it until it boils ; strain through a tammy. The 
calTs head must be cut into pieces an inch square, and 
be placed in the soup and allowed to boil a little 
until the pieces are done. Add half a pint Madeira, 
a pinch of cayenne, and squeeze of a lemon ; serve* 

Thick Mock Turtle Soup. 

Make the stock for this the same as for clear turtle 
soup, with the addition of forcemeat balls and egg 
balls. For those parboil half-arpound of veal and two 
ounces of ham, four ounces of beef suet, half a tea- 
cupful of bread crumbs^ a little parsley, all minced up 
together, seasoned with grated nutmeg, pepper, and 
salt. Make this mixture into small balls the size of a 
marble ; beat up two eggs ; dip the balls in the egg 
and toss them in bread crumbs, and fry in boiling lard 
for five minutes ; take them out of the lard and place 
them on clean white paper to drip. Then make the 
egg balls. Boil four eggs for fifteen mintites, put 
them in cold water for five minutes ; shell them . 
pound the yolks in a mortar ; drop in the white of one 



12 Soups. 

egg, a pinch of pepper and salt, the grating of a 
nutmeg ; then pound for other five minutes ; form into 
small round balls the size of a nutmeg; poach in 
boiling stock for three minutes ; have the soup boiling; 
cut some pieces of the calfs head two inches square, 
and boil in the soup. Then add all the balls, a table- 
spoonful of ketchup, pinch of cayenne, and a glass of 
Madeira wine when in the tureen. 

Grouse Soup, Clear. 

Take two brace of old grouse, cut the fillets from the 
breast, put away on a plate, take the carcases and 
break them a little with a chopper, put them in a pan 
and cover with cold water ; add a little parsley, one 
sprig of thyme, four shallots, some black pepper-corns, 
and a little salt ; set the pan on the stove to boil ; when 
the scum rises, skim it off. Keep the pan boiling until 
the meat is thoroughly cooked ; then strain the stock 
through a tammy-sieve ; return the stock into a clean 
pan; the fillets must now be cut into thick shreds, 
and put into the soup, and boiled for half-an-hour ; 
when the shreds of grouse are boiled enough and 
the soup to be used, add a glassful of port wine, and a 
pinch of red pepper. The soup is ready for use. 

Note. — ^Pheasants, partridges, larks, snipes, wood- 
cock, rabbits, prepared in the manner indicated for 
making grouse soup, will prove equally delicious. 

Grouse Soup, Thick. 

The remains of cooked grouse may do for this soup. 
Take all the remains of cold game you can collect, put 



Soups. 1 3 

into a pan, cover with cold water or stock, addrvege- 
tables and herbs same as for clear gronse soup, with the 
addition of a small piece of lean ham, and a little 
thickening made with three ounces of butter, and the 
same quantity of flour ; put into a pan and stir on the 
fire till it gets into a thick paste ; then pour this into the 
stock with the other seasoning. Boil all together for 
four hours, and strain through a sieve ; add fillets of 
grouse, season with salt^ red pepper, and a little port 
wine, and serve. 

Potato Soup. 

Feel and slice a dozen good potatoes, and six onions ; 
cover with stocky second stock will do. Boil them until 
they are quite soft, then add a large teaspoonfdl of 
curry powder, same of curry paste, then rub through a 
hair sieve ; return it to the pan ; boil and skim ; season 
with salt ; add half a teacupful of cream ; and dish. 

Note. — ^For this a stock might be made of roast beef 
bones, marrow bones, or any scraps of fresh meat. 

Kidney Soup. 

Take two ox kidneys, cut them in pieces with two 
pounds of stewing steak. Put a small piece of butter 
into a stew-pan ; put the beef and kidneys into the 
pan ; add six onions, one carrot, one small turnip, one 
stalk of celery, one sprig of thyme, a little pepper and 
salt ; put your pan on the stove, and stew slowly for 
balf-an-hour ; fill up the pan with boiling water, and 
let it boil for four hours. Then take out a few pieces 
of the kidneys, and cut them small. Strain the soup 



1 4 Soups. 

through a hair sieve ; return to the pan ; add the pieces 
of kidney, and boil. Bemove all the scum and fat 
that may rise to the top, and dish. 

Celery and Button-Onion Soup. 

Clean four heads of celery; cut them in pieces; 
boil in water for ten minutes, drain them ; place them 
in a soup pan with half-a-pint of button-onions, a little 
tarragon and chervil, a piece of sugar, and a pinch of 
pepper ; fill up with game stock ; boil gently until the 
celery is thoroughly done, and serve. 

Giblet Soup, Clear. 

Take two sets of geese giblets, thoroughly cleansed; 
place them in a stew pan with a little .basil, marjorum, 
lemon thyme, parsley, carrot, and a stalk of celery, 
three onions, one of them stuck with six cloves, two 
blades of mace, and six shallots. Add four pounds of 
knuckle of veal ; put the pan on the stove with the 
giblets, veal, vegetables, and herbs; fill up the pan 
with cold water, and set it on the stove to boil; 
remove the scum ; boil the stock imtil the giblets are 
tender. Then take out the necks and gizzards ; wash 
them in cold water; put them away imtil wanted. 
Now boil the stock an hour longer ; strain it through 
a tammy sieve ; return it into a clean pan, and boil it. 
Add the pieces of giblets you have in reserve, and a 
tablespoonful of ketchup, a pinch of cayenne pepper, 
and a glass of Madeira wine, and serve. 



Sottps. 1 5 

Giblet Soup, Thick. 

Clean three or four sets of goose or duck giblets ; 
put them in a pan with a scrap of mutton and some 
veal bones, with three onions, a bunch of sweet herbs, 
a teaspoonfiil of white pepper, a little salt, a few white 
mushrooms, and an ounce of butter mixed with a dessert- 
spoonful of flour. Boil this on the hot-plate for four 
hours ; take out the neck and some of the gizzards be- 
fore they are overdone : cut the necks about three inches 
in length, and the gizzards in small slices ; add these to 
the soup after the stock has been strained and seasoned 
with salt ; boil it up, put half a teacupful of sweet cream 
in the tureen ; pour in the soup and keep stirring it for 
a few minutes ; and serve. 

Hare Soup, Thick. 

Take one or two hares, and skin them; take out 
the inside without breaking it. Hold it over a basin, 
and tear out the limgs; save the blood in the basin; 
cut up the hares in pieces and put them in a large 
pan; cover them well in cold water. Take two table- 
spoonfuls of flour and mix it with the blood ; then pour 
it into the pan with the hares ; put in one carrot, one 
turnip, one stalk of celery, sprig of thyme, six onions, 
half-an-ounce whole black pepper. Then set the pan 
on the fire, and with a long wooden spoon stir it one 
way until it boils ; let it boil until the meat is boiled 
to pieces. Cut the fillets in pieces an inch and 
a half in length ; brown them in a stew pan with a 
little butter. When the soup is boiled enough, strain 
it ; add the fillets of hare ; return it into the pan, and 



1 6 Soups. 

let it boil for a short time ; take off the scum, and 
«eason with two table-spoonfuls of ketchup, a pinch of 
•cayenne pepper, and salt to taste. 

Hare Soup, Clear. 

This soup is made without the blood of the hare. 
Wash the hare in cold water, and cut it in pieces ; put 
it in a pan with vegetables and sweet herbs, with the 
same seasoning as for thick hare soup. Cover it well 
with cold water; add salt and white pepper-corns. 
Put it on the hot plate ; when it boils, skim it ; let it 
boil slowly for six or seven hours ; cut the fillets and 
«tew them in a little of the stock; boil a stalk of 
celery ; take the tender parts and cut them in pieces 
one inch in length. Now strain the stock through a 
tammy sieve, and put in a clean pan ; add the pieces 
of hare and the bits of boiled celery ; put it back on 
the hot plate, and let it boil for a short time. Skim, 
and add one table-spoonful of ketchup, a little salt, and 
a pinch of cayenne pepper ; a glass of port wine may 
be added if liked. 

Mulligatawney Soup. 

Peel and slice up one dozen onions and put them 
into a stew-pan with four ounces of butter, and fry 
them on a slow fire ; add six impeeled apples cut in 
slices ; as soon as these have been cooked, mix in six 
ounces of flour, two table-spoonfuls of curry paste, and 
one of curry powder ; moisten with three quarts of good 
stock ; stir over the fire until the soup boils, and then 
set it to continue gently simmering by the side of the fire. 



Soups. 1 7 

to allow the grease to rise to the surface ; then rub the 
soup through a sieve. Put it back into the soup pot ; 
add pieces of chicken, game, or veal, previously cooked 
and cut into square pieces ; boil together for a few 
minutes, and serve with plain boiled rice in a separate 
dish. 

Mulligatawney Soup, Clear. 

Second stock will do to make this soup ; mince a 
piece of lean beef, and add it to the cold stock after it 
has been freed from grease. For a tureenful of soup 
mix a dessert-spoonful of curry powder, the whites and 
shells of two eggs beat up and mixed with the soup. 
Put on the stove ; boil for half-an-hour ; strain through 
a tammy, and serve with rice. 

Chestnut Soup. 

Scald, peel, and scrape fifty chestnuts ; put them 
into a stew pan with two ounces of butter, an onioB, 
two lumps of sugar, and a little pepper and salt, and 
simmer the whole over the fire for three-quarters of an 
hour. Then bruise the chestnuts in a mortar ; remove 
the pulp into a stew-pan ; add a quart of good hrown 
stock, and having rubbed the puree through a sieve, 
pour it into a stew-pan ; make it hot, and serve with 
fried crusts. 

This soup may be made with white stock instead of 
brown, with the addition of a little cream before it is 
dished. 

Vegetable Marrow Soup. 
Peel and core six vegetables — ^marrows ; put them in 
a stew-pan with two ounces of butter, pepper and salt. 



1 8 Soups. 

and a little nntmeg; moisten with a pint of white 
stock; boil gently for half-an-hour ; rub the puree 
throngh a hair sieve ; pour it into a soup-pot. Add a 
pint of good stock, and a little sweet cream; stir it 
over the fire until it boils, and serve with firied crusts. 

How to Make White Stock. 

Break up a knuckle of veal^ with any trimmings of 
meat you have; one old fowl and one rabbit; the 
fillets might be cut out and kept for an entree ; put 
all the meat into a pot ; add one pound of lean ham or 
bacon, with four carrots, two turnips, two stalks of 
celery, a handful of parsley, bay-leaf, sprig of thyme, a 
handful of mushrooms, a blade of mace, six cloves, 
twelve white pepper-corns, and two ounces of salt. 
Allow your stock to boil very gently by the side of a 
slow fire for about five hours, skimming it occasionally, 
and then strain it off into clean pans for use as occasion 
requires. 

Duchess Soup. 

Mix two ounces of arrowroot in a little cold water, 
and pour this into a stew-pan containing a quart of 
good white stock ; stir this over the fire until it boils 
about ten minutes, and then pour it into a soup-tureen* 
Add some neatly cut inch-long pieces of roasted or 
boiled poultry or game; skim the soup before it is 
dished. 

Rich White Soup. 
Take six pounds of veal and an old fowl, and cut in 
pieces, and put them in a pan filled with cold water. 



Soups. 19 

Then add one parsnip, one carrot, a small piece of 
celery, two onions, two carrots, a sprig of sweet 
marjoram, a blade of mace, some whole white pepper; 
boil slowly for five hours, and strain through a hair 
sieve. Then put away to cool in order to get all the 
fat off. When it is to be used, boil the stock and skim. 
Add pepper to taste ; beat the yolks of two eggs ; add 
to them a tea-cupful of sweet cream ; then pour both 
into the tureen. Take a ladleful of boiling soup; 
pour it in amongst the eggs and cream, stirring all the 
time ; then pour in the whole, and stir a little longer, 
so as to mix them thoroughly and make the soup 
perfectly smooth. 

Palestine Soup. 

Peel and slice a peck of Jerusalem artichokes, four 
onions, one head of celery ; place these in a stew-pan 
with two ounces of butter, and three pints of white 
veal stock. Season with nutmeg, pepper, and salt. 
Boil gently for an hour ; rub through a sieve ; remove 
the puree into a stew-pan; stir it over the fire till hot. 
Add a pint of cream, and serve with fried crusts 
iseparately. 

Victoria Soup. 

Wash half-a-pound of pearl barley, and put this 
into a stew-pan with three pints of good white veal 
stock, and simmer it very gently over a slow fire for 
an hour and a half, by which time the barley will be 
nearly dissolved; remove a third of it into a small 
soup-pot ; rub the remainder through a sieve ; then add 



20 Soups. 

it to the whole barley. Add half a pint of cream ; 
season with a little salt ; stir it over the fire until hot, 
and serve. 

Cocky-Leeky. 
Boil a fowl in three pints of light-coloured stock. 
When done, cut the fowl up into pieces, and let these 
be kept in reserve between two plates to prevent them 
from becoming dried up. Next, add to the broth 
which the fowl has been boiled in, a dozen leeks cut 
into inch lengths ; then add the pieces of chicken, a 
few stewed prunes, pepper and salt. 

Hodge-Podge. 

Take the neck and back ribs of mutton ; put them 
in a pan with a tea-cupful of pearl barley ; fill up the 
pan with cold water, put it on the stove and boil it 
until the meat is done ; take it out and put away for 
use. Strain the stock through a sieve ; skim off the 
fat and return the stock into the pan ; put it back on 
the stove. Wash a few carrots and turnips; peel 
them and cut them in dice; add to the soup a few 
young onions, cauliflower, two heads of lettuce, pease, 
beans, and a little parsley ; boil all the vegetables till 
quite tender; then take some lamb, or mutton chops, and 
fry them a light brown colour, and then put them into 
the soup-pot ; skim off all the fat ; add a little salt to 
taste, and dish. 

Green Pea Soup. 

Prepare a quart of green peas, a handful of parsley, 
the same of green onions and mint; boil these in 



Soups. 2 1 

three quarts of stock, and as soon as the peas are 
done, nib the whole through a hair sieve and pour the 
whole of the soup into a pan ; put it on the fire to 
boil ; take off all the scum ; take a handful of very 
young peas ; boil them in water ; when done, strain 
and add them to the soup. 

Common Pea Soup. 

Soak a quart of split peas over night, and next day 
wash them in cold water, and put them in a pan with 
carrot, celery, onions, ham, or bacon bones, roast-beef, 
or mutton bones ; then add three quarts of water ; set 
the pan on the fire to boil ; then skim it and let it boil 
slowly by the side of the fire for three hours. Take 
it off, and rub through a hair sieve ; return the soup to 
the pan, and skim it well; add pepper and salt to 
taste, and send to table with toasted bread cut in small 
squares, and bruised dry mint separately. 

Oyster Soup. 

Scald, drain, and beard four dozen oysters, reserving 
their liquor in a pan ; put four ounces of butter into 
a stew-pan to dissolve over the fire; mix in four 
ounces of flour; moisten with a pint and a half of 
good white stock; season with nutmeg, a pinch of 
cayenne, and a teaspoonful of anchovy ; stir over the 
fire during a quarter of an hour's gentle boiling ; and 
then, having cut the oysters each into halves, pour 
the hot soup over them in the tureen; add a little 
sweet cream, and serve. 



2 2 Soups. 

Lobster Soup. 

First cut Tip very small the following ingredients: — 
one carrot, onion, celery, three shallots, bay-leaf, and 
thyme, and some parsley; fry these in a stew-pan 
with a piece of butter until they are slightly browned; 
then add six ounces of flour ; mix well ; moisten with 
three pints of good stock ; stir over the fire, and when 
it boils set it by the side to simmer gently for half 
an hour. While this part of the preparation is going 
on, break up a fresh boiled hen-lobster; remove the 
meat from the tail and claws, and cut this into neat 
square pieces to be kept in reserve. The remainder 
of the lobster and shell, together with a little spawn, 
must be well bruised in a mortar, and stirred into 
the soup as it boils ; and five minutes after, let the 
whole be rubbed through a sieve, poured into a soup 
pot, mdde hot, and skimmed; seasoned with a glass 
of sherry, a little Harvey, lemon juice, anchovy, and 
cayenne, and poured into the soup tureen already 
containing the cut-up lobster, and some small quenelles. 

Crab Soup. 
Boil half a pound of rice in a quart of white stock, 
with a little nutmeg, pepper, salt, and an ounce of 
butter ; while the rice is being very slowly simmered, 
break up a fresh-boiled crab, separating carefully all 
the white firom the claws, which must be kept in 
reserve; pound all the yellow pith from the body 
shell, with the boiled rice; and, having mixed the 
whole with a quart of ,hot stock, rub it through a 
tammy; pour it into a soup-pot; add the white meat 



Soups. 23 

from the claws ; season with a small pinch of cayenne, 
a little anchovy, and a pint of cream; stir oyer the 
fire mitil quite hot without allowing it to boil, and 
serve. 

Eel Soup. 

Boil a pound of unskinned eels in a quart of water 
with a crust of bread, two blades of mace, a little 
whole pepper, an onion, and a bunch of sweet herbs, 
in a stew-pan, closely covered, till they are quite 
broken ; then strain off the soup, and pour it boiling 
on some toasted bread cut into dice. 





FISH. 



Boiled Salmon. 

If you wish to boil a whole salmon, break the gills 
and let it bleed ; wash it in cold water ; put on a fish 
kettle with a drainer in it ; fill the pan with water^ 
adding a handful of salt. When the water boils, lay the 
fish on the drainer, and put it into a pan ; boil it for 
half an hour ; skim the water when it boils. Do not 
leave the salmon in the water after it is boiled ; take 
it out on the drainer; lay it across the pan to drip; 
dish it on a folded napkin, and serve with either of 
the following sauces: — lobster, shrimp, anchovy, or 
plain butter-sauce with parsley, and a little of the 
salmon water, with a little chopped parsley. 

Grilled Salmon. 

Cut one or more slices of salmon about an inch 
thick; rub them with salad oil, or fresh butter, 
and season with pepper and salt; place them on a 
gridiron over a clear fire to broil, carefully turning 
the slices of salmon every five minutes, basting occa- 
sionally either with butter or salad oil. When the 
salmon is done through, which will be accomplished 
in about half-an-hour — and may be ascertained by 



Fish. 2 5 

finding that, on a little pressure, the bone easily 
separates from the fish, place it on a hot dish with 
Italian sauce, or brown batter sauce, poured over it. 

Fillets of Salmon, a I'lndienne. 

Procure a pound and a half of salmon from the tail 
end, that part being cheapest; divide the fish from 
the back-bone by nmning the edge of a knife along 
the side of the spine; then remove the skin in like 
manner; cut the fish into neat square pieces about a 
quarter of an inch thick; dip these fillets in some 
beaten egg, and roll them in some bread-crumbs ; fry 
them to a light fawn colour in lard previously made 
very hot for the purpose ; and when done, dish 
them up neatly and pour over them some Indian 
sauce; sprinkle over the fillets some finely shred green 
gherkins. 

Fillets of Salmon, a la Ravigotte. 

Trim the fillets of salmon in the form of squares or 
ovals ; place them in a sauta-pan with a little clarified 
butter, pepper, salt, chopped parsley, and the juice of 
half a lemon. Set them upon a slow fire until done 
on one side, and then turn them over ; and when done 
through, drain and dish them up in a ring. Sauce over 
with ravigotte sauce. 

Salmon, Au Gratin. 

Take some pieces of cold boiled salmon ; put them 
on a flat dish; season with pepper and salt, and a 
little ketchup ; grate a little parmesan cheese ; sprinkle 



26 Fish. 

it all over the pieces of salmon. Take a frying pan, 
put it on a slow fire ; put a small piece of butter into 
it ; then put some fine bread-crumbs into the pan ; 
make them light brown; pour a little butter sauce 
over the fish and cheese; sprinkle the brown bread 
crumbs on the top of the fish and cheese. Put it into 
the oven to heat it thoroughly, and brown it with a 
red-hot salamander. 

Salmon Cadgerre. 

Take half-a-pound of rice and boil it ; dry it after- 
wards before the fire ; boil two eggs for ten minutes ; 
peel and mince them. Put a stew-pan on the stove, or 
on a trivet ; put a small piece of butter into the pan ; 
make it hot ; put in the pieces of salmon ; then the rice 
and eggs. Season rather high with salt and white 
pepper ; take a fork and mix it up lightly. Make it 
very hot, and dish it up. 

Trout 

Boil the trout in water with salt ; and when done, 
dish it up on a napkin in a dish; garnish it with 
picked parsley ; and serve separately in a sauce-boat, 
any of the following sauces — ^Dutch, parsley, butter, 
shrimp, or anchovy sauce. 

Turbot, Plain Boiled. 

Wash the turbot ; wipe it dry ; rub it over with the 
juice of a lemon, and a little salt, and put it into a fish- 
kettle with water sufficient to cover it. Add a handful 
of salt ; when the water boils, skim it. Boil the turbot 
for half-an-hour, more or less, according to the size of 



Fish. 2 7 

the fish ; when done, lift the turbot out carefully upon 
a drainer ; slide it gently off on to the dish covered 
with a folded napkin ; garnish it with picked parsley, 
and send to table with either lobster sauce, or Dutch 
sauce. 

Turbot with Cream, Au Gratin. 

Take some pieces of cold boiled turbot, and cut up 
the pieces into scallops ; to these add some Bechamel 
sauce ; make the fish hot ; pile it up neatly in a dish ; 
shake over the top some grated parmesan cheese; 
pour a little cream over all ; brown it on the top with 
a hot salamander. 

Fillets of Turbot. 

A small turbot may be purchased for this purpose ; 
and after cutting out the fleshy parts from the four 
divisions intervening between the fins and the back- 
bone, divide these into square pieces, and place them 
in a sauta-pan with two ounces of butter, pepper, salt, 
and lemon-juice ; set them in the oven to bake for ten 
minutes. The fillets must be turned over, and made 
brown on both sides ; when done, they must be dished 
up similarly to cutlets, and sauced over with Dutch, 
Indian, lobster, shrimp, or oyster sauce. 

Brill. 

This fish very much resembles turbot, and may 
therefore be treated in the same way, in all particulars, 

John Dory. 
Boil the fish in water with a little salt ; it must be 
boiled very slowly to prevent it from breaking. When 



28 Fish, 

the dory is done, dish it up with care, and send it to 
table with lobster, shrimp, anchovy, or Dutch sauce. 
Dories may also be stuffed and baked, or grilled, and 
served with brown caper sauce. 

Sturgeon, a la Cardinal. 

Procure about two pounds of sturgeon ; remove the 
skin with a sharp knife. Tie the piece of fish neatly 
into shape with a string, and place it in a stew- 
pan with sliced carrot, onion, bay-leaf, thyme, parsley, 
a glass of vinegar, four cloves, salt, and a bit of mace, 
and water enough to cover the fish. Set this to boil 
gently until the sturgeon is done, which will take more 
or less time according to the size of the piece ; when 
done, dish up the sturgeon ; garnish with a border of 
quenelles of whiting or crayfish placed alternately 
roimd it. Sauce it over with cardinal sauce. 

Sturgeon, Grilled, with Piquante Sauce. 

Procure a slice of sturgeon about an inch thick ; 
rub it over with a little salad oil ; season with pepper 
and salt, and broil it over a clear fire until done on 
both sides. Place it on its dish, and pour over it some 
piquante sauce in which there has been incorporated 
one ounce of fresh butter and a little anchovy. 

Cod, with Brown Oyster Sauce. 

Take a good cod and clean it ; lay it in a good deal 
of salt for one night ; cut off the head and shoulders, 
and skin it ; roll it up neatly ; cover with the skin, and 
cord it with a piece of twine. Have a fish-pan with 



Fish. 29 

cold water and two handfuls of salt ; put in the fish. 
Sldm carefully when it boils, and draw the cover a 
little to the side ; let it boil for half-an-hour; then take 
it off the fire ; lift up the drainer ; place it across the 
fish-pan, and cover with a clean cloth ; cut away the 
cord. Take off the skin carefully ; lay it on its dish. 
Make some brown oyster sauce, and pour it over 
the fish. 

Crimped Cod, with Oyster Sauce. 

Have some clean water ready boiling on the fire ; 
place the slices of cod on a drainer ; put them into a 
pan. Add a handful of salt ; allow them to boil very 
gently for twenty minutes. The slices must be im- 
mediately dished up as soon as they are done ; garnish 
the slices of crimped cod with picked parsley, and 
some pieces of the liver which have been boiled 
separately, and serve oyster sauce in a sauce-boat. 

Cod, a rindienne. 

Fry or grill some slices of cod; and when done, 
dish them up and pour over them some curry sauce, 
in which have been mixed a little anchovy, and about 
two oxmces of butter. Serve plain boiled rice separately. 

Plain Boiled Rice for Curries. 

Wash the rice thoroughly in several waters. Put 
a pan on the fire with plenty of boiling water and a 
little salt ; put the rice into the pan and boil it for 
twenty minutes ; take it off and pour it into a drainer. 
Pour some boiling water over the rice in the drainer ; 



30 Fish. 

let it drip for a few minutea. Take a fork and put it 
back into the pan ; cover the pan with a clean cloth ; 
set it near the fire to drj- for ten minuteB ; with a fork 
touch it up lightly, and dish it. Well-cooked rice for 
curries must be thoroughly done, and present a perfectly 
white and light appearance. 

Grilled Haddock. 

Wipe the haddock thoroughly dry, rub it over with 
oil, and then flour it; broil it upon a gridiron over 
a clear fire, and when done on both sides dish it up on 
a napkin, and serve separately in a sauce boat, either 
Dutch, shrimp, aDchovy, or butter sauce. 

Fillets of Haddock. 

Clean the haddock and skin it ; take out the bone ; 
cut the fillets four or five inches in length ; dip them in 
beaten egg, and roll them in bread-crumbs. Have a 
pan of very hot lard, or dripping, ready ; put them into 
the lard to swim ; turn them over in ihe fat ; when 
they get a nice brown colour take them out ; put them 
before the fire on clean paper to free them from all 
grease ; dish them up on a napkin and garnish with 
parsley, and serve with Dutch sauce. 

Baked Haddock. 

Prepare the haddock as you would for boiling ; 
dust it over with flour ; melt a piece of butter and 
mix with a little anchovy. Baste the fish with this ; 
put it into the oven to bake ; when done serve with 
brown oyster sauce. 



Fish. 3 1 

Soles, Boiled. 

Cut off the rough edge of the fins ; wash them clean, 
and boil in water with a little salt, and when done 
through, dish up the sole on a folded napkin with the 
white side upmost ; garnish with picked parsley, and 
serve either of the following sauces in a sauce boat — 
anchovy, Dutch, or shrimp sauce. 

Soles, Fried. 
Skin the sole and dust it with a little flour, and 
then with a paste-brush dipped in beaten egg ; moisten 
it all over on both sides and cover it well with bread- 
crumbs; and fry it in very hot lard or frying fat, 
suflScient to swim it. When done through, drain the 
fish on a cloth to absorb all grease ; dish it upon a 
napkin with some fried parsley, and serve either 
Dutch, shrimp, or anchovy sauce. 

Stuffed Soles. 

Bone a sole ; stuff and bake it ; when done dish it 

up ; reduce the liquor, and add to it some cardinal 

sauce. Pour this over the sole ; garnish it round with 

a border of quenelles of whiting, decorate it with truffle, 

and serve. 

Fillets of Sole. 

Skin the sole, and then lay it flat on the table, and 
with the point of a sharp knife make a deep incision 
along the back-bone, and then, insert the knife 
close to the head between the fillet and the fin bones, 
and pass the edge of the knife under the fillet 
up to the fins from head to tail; and thus having 
filleted as many soles as may be required for your 



32 Fish. 

intended purpose, divide each fillet across the centre ; 
trim the ends neatly, and place them in a sauta-pan 
containing about two ounces of clarified butter. 
Season with lemon juice, and a little pepper and salt ; 
set the sauta-pan on the fire to cook the fillets, and in 
ten or twelve minutes, if thoroughly done, drain them 
upon a napkin to absorb the grease. Dish them up in 
a circular form ; pour over them either of the following 
sauces : — ravigotte, Dutch, cardinal, white, matelotte, 
shrimp, Indian, Italian, mussel, or green ravigotte sauce. 

Fillets of Sole, Fried. 

When the fillets of soles are trimmed, flour them 
over, and then dip each piece separately in some beaten 
egg ; roll them in some bread-crumbs, and place them 
in a wire frying basket ; and, having some hot frying 
fat, immerse the fillets in the basket in it. Allow them 
to fi:y about ten minutes, by which time they will have 
acquired a light brown colour; they must then be 
withdrawn from the fat, draiaed on a cloth, dished up 
neatly similarly to cutlets ; serve with Dutch or shrimp 
sauce. 

Fillets of Sole, a la Tartar. 

Bread-crumb the fillets of sole in the usual manner; 
fry them in two ounces clarified butter in a sauta-pan 
over a sharp fire ; and when done of a light brown, 
drain them on a cloth and dish them up on some 
tartar sauce. 

Fillets of Gurnet. 

These may be prepared in every variety of form 
prescribed for dressing fillets of soles. 



Fish. 33 

Boiled Gurnet 

Fill the inside of the gurnet with some veal stuffing ; 
sew up the flaps ; boil it in water with a little salt ; 
and when done, dish it upon a folded napkin, garnish 
it round with picked parsley, and serve with white or 
brown caper sauce. 

Boiled Mackeral. 

Boil the mackeral in salt and water, and send to 
table with either fennel, parsley, or gooseberry sauce. 

Grilled Mackeral. 

Split the mackeral down the back; season with 
pepper and salt; oil it over; place it on a gridiron 
over a moderate fire ; and when done on both sides, 
take it up on a hot dish, and fill the inside with cold 
maitre-dhotel sauce round the base, and serve. 

Mackeral, Filleted. 

Skin and fillet mackeral same as haddock. Put a 
piece of butter in a sauta-pan ; make it hot ; place the 
fillets in the pan; season with pepper and salt, lemon- 
juice, and chopped parsley. Set the pan over the fire 
for a quarter of an hour. When done, drain and dish 
fchem. Serve with ravigotte or Dutch sauce. 

Red Mullets, Stewed. 

Clean the mullets ; place them in a sauta-pan, with 
a little brown stock. Season with pepper and salt, and 
a little port wine, with half a spoonful of thickening. 
When done, pour the sauce over them, and serve. 



34 . Fish. 

Red Mullets, Grilled. 

Season the mullet with pepper and salt ; rub it over 
with oil ; place it on a gridiron over a clear fire ; and, 
having grilled it on both sides, dish it up, and serve, 
with either piquante, tomato, or Italian sauce. 

Red Mullets, with Herbs. 

Place the mullets in a sauta-pan, with an ounce of 
butter, a little Harvey, anchovy, and a glass of port 
wine; bake them in the oven ; and when done, remove 
the fish on to their dish, add to their liquor some finely 
chopped truffle mushrooms, parsley, a little shallot, 
nutmeg, the juice of half a lemon, and a little flour. 
Stir these together over the fire for a few minutes ; 
pour the sauce over the mullets, and serve quite hot. 

Whitings, Boiled. 
Boil the whitings in water, with a little salt, for ten 
minutes; then dish them on a napkin; garnish with 
parsley, and serve with butter sauce. 

Whitings, Fried. 

Skin the whiting, and then turn the tail through the 
eyes; flour it over; dip it in beaten egg; toss it in 
bread-crumbs ; fry it in boiling lard or fiying fat. 
When it turns a bright brown colour, take it out of the 
fat ; drain it before the fire for a few minutes ; then 
dish it on a napkin, and serve with Dutch sauce. 

Fried Whitings, a la Francaise. 

Wipe the whiting without skinning it; score it 
along both sides by making deep incisions with a 



Fish. 35 

sharp knife; dip the fish in a little milk on a plate, 
and, having well floured it over, fiy it, in plenty of hot 
fat, of a hght colour and perfectly crisp, and serve with 
anchovy or shrimp sauce. 

Fried Smelt*. 

Wipe the smelts ; cut off the fins ; roll them in flour; 
dip them in beaten egg; roll them in bread-crumbs, 
and fry them in plenty of frying fat ; and when done, 
dish them up with fried parsley, and serve with shrimp 
or anchovy sauce. 

Baked Smelts. 

Spread the bottom of a dish with butter, sprinkle 
thereon some raspings of bread, season with chopped 
parsley and shallots, pepper and salt, then place the 
smelts in a row, pour over them a little Harvey and 
anchovy sauce ; repeat the butter, seasoning and rasp- 
ings, and having placed them in the oven for about a 
quarter of an hour, when thoroughly done, serve hot. 

Eels, Fried. 

Skin the eels, cut them two inches in length, dust 

them with flour, dip them in beaten egg, and roll in 

bread-crumbs, and fry them in boiling lard or frying 

fat ; they will take eight minutes to cook ; when done, 

put them before the fire on white paper to free them 

from grease ; dish up the pieces of eel on some tartar 

sauce. 

Eel Pie. 

Prepare the eels same as for frying, place them in a 
pie-dish, cover them with white stock, add a little Chili 



36 Fish. 

vinegar, ketchup, and Harvey ; bake in an oven for 
twenty minutes or half an hour, and serve hot. This 
pie can also be eaten cold. 

Baked Pike. 

• 

First draw, scale, and wash the pike thoroughly ; 
truss it in the form of an S ; put it. in a baking dish, 
with a little stock, a good piece of fresh butter, two 
table-spoonfuls of catsup, a little anchovy, and some 
chopped parsley, and shallot. Set the pike in the 
oven to bake until it is done, remembering it 
must be frequently basted with its own liquor, and 
that the heat of the oven must not be fierce, as in 
that case it would burn up the moisture, and spoil the 
fish. When thoroughly done through, lift the pike 
carefully on to the dish ; strain the liquor it has been 
baked with into a stew-pan ; thicken it with two ounces 
of butter, kneaded with two ounces of flour ; add a few 
sliced gherkins, and a glass of sherry. Stir the sauce 
over the fire for ten minutes ; pour it over the fish, and 
send to table. 

Pike may be plain boiled, same as haddock, and 
served with plain butter sauce, anchovy, or Dutch 
sauce. Pike may also be filleted, egged, bread- 
crumbed, and fried, same as any other white fish, and 
served with Dutch or anchovy sauce. 

Souchet of Pike. 

Fillet the pike; pare off" the skin; put the fillets to 
boil for ten minutes in a stew-pan, with some weak 
bright stock and a little chopped parsley, pepper and 



Fish. 3 7 

salt, and serve all together, with thin slices of brown 
bread and batter on a plate separately. 

Perch. 

Draw and wash the perch; skin them; then roll 
in melted butter; dust them all over with flour; 
dip them in beaten egg, and roll them in bread-crumbs. 
Fry them in boiling fat ; drain them on clean paper. 

Perch may be soucheted in the same way as 
Pike. 

Pouns, Boiled. 

Scrape and clean the pouns; put them in a pan 
with cold water ; boil them for ten minutes ; dish them 
on a napkin, and garnish with parsley. Make plain 
butter sauce with a little made mustard in it, and serve 
with the pouns. 

Pouns, Fried. 

Egg and bread-crumb the pouns ; fry them in boiling 
fat ; serve with anchovy sauce. 

Skate, Crimped. 

This jBsh is generally sold in cut stripes, and curled 
round with a piece of the liver in the centre. The 
ordinary way of treating this fish is to boil it in salt 
and water, and serve it with white or brown caper 
sauce, or with Dutch, shrimp, or anchovy sauce. 

Skate is also excellent when bread-crumbed and 
fried, and served with either of the sauces above 
named, and also with tomato or Indian sauce. 

D 



38 Fish. 

Crimped Skate, with Brown Butter Sauce, 

Boil the skate in salt and water, and a little vinegar; 

and when done, dish it up with some of the liver, and 

fried parsley ; pour some brown butter sauce over it, 

and serve. 

White-Bait 

Let the white-bait remain in ice till near dinner 
time; put some flour in a cloth; take the fish from 
the ice ; put them on the cloth with the flour ; toss 
them about in the cloth ; place them on the back of a 
wire sieve ; shake the damp flour from them, and fry 
them in a pan of boiling lard ; four minutes will cook 
them. They should be of a silvery colour, and perfectly 
crisped; pile them on a napkin ; garnish with parsley; 
serve with brown bread and butter, and cut lemon. 

Potted Herrings. 

Take herrings perfectly fresh, and clean them well, 
but do not wash them ; cut off the heads and fins, and 
take the bones out. Season them with pepper and salt; 
roll them up tightly ; pack them in a baking dish, and pour 
over them in the proportion of an English pint of vinegar 
to two of water, with half an ounce of whole pepper. 
Tie over the dish a piece of paper, and bake them in a 
slow oven for an hour. Take off the cover when they 
are cold, and pour over them a little cold vinegar. 

To Dress Fresh Herrings. 

Scrape and clean the herrings, but do not wash 
them ; rub them over with olive oil or a little melted 
butter; dust them with very little flour, and broil 



Fish. 39 

them upon a gridiron. Serve them with sauce made of 
fresh butter, pepper, vinegar, mustard, and salt. 

Pouns may be done in the same way as fresh 
herrings. 

Scolloped Oysters. 

Remove the beards from some dozens ; strain the 
liquor into a stew pan ; add thereto two ounces of but- 
ier kneaded with two ounces of flour, a little cream, 
anchovy, nutmeg, and cayenne ; stir the sauce over the 
fire to boil, and reduce for ten minutes ; then add a 
<50uple of yolks of eggs, and a little lemon juice, and 
some chopped parsley ; add the oysters, cut up ; stir 
all together over the fire for a few minutes, and fill some 
scollop shells with this preparation ; cover them over 
with a thick coating of fined bread crumbs ; place them 
on a baking sheet in the oven for five minutes, and serve 
them quite hot. If you have no scollop shells, the 
•deep shell of the oyster, well washed, will serve the 
purpose. 

Scolloped Mussels. 

These are prepared similarly to oysters, and placed 
in scollop shells likewise. Both oysters and mussels 
being first prepared as described, may be served upon 
neatly shaped pieces of toast : this constitutes oyster 
ioast, or mussel toast. 

Scolloped Cockles 

may be prepared the same as scolloped mussels, and 
jspread on pieces of dry toast. 




SAUCES 



Plain Butter Sauce. 

Take four ounces of butter ; put it in a pan with 
the same weight of flour ; put the pan on the stove 
or slow fire ; melt and mix together. Then pour in 
some boiling water until it is the thickness of cream ; 
boil it for ten minutes ; skim it. If you should find it 
lumpy, pour it through a strainer. This sauce may be 
served with boiled fish, and it makes a foundation for 
many other sauces. 

White Bechamel Sauce. 

Put four ounces of flour into a stew-pan with two 
ounces of fresh butter ; knead these together smoothly 
by working them with a wooden spoon; next add 
an onion, a small carrot, half a head of celery, some 
parsley, a bay-leaf, and thyme, the vegetables cut 
small, a little nutmeg, pepper, and salt. Moisten with 
a pint and a half of milk ; stir the sauce over the fire 
while it boils sharply for twenty minutes ; then strain 
it through a pointed strainer into a basin ; afterwards 
to be removed into a convenient sized stew-pan ready 
for use. 



Sauces. 41 

Cream Bechamel Sauce. 

Put a pint of white sauce into a stew-pan with a 
few sliced mushrooms ; reduce this by stirring it over 
the fire for ten minutes. Then add half a pint of 
cream; and, as soon as the sauce comes to the boil, 
strain it into a basin or stew-pan for use. 

White Sauce. 

Mix well in a stew-pan two ounces of flour, one 
ounce of butter, a little nutmeg, pepper, and salt; to 
these add a pint of milk ; stir over the fire for ten 
minutes, and strain off for use. 

Brown Butter Sauce. 
Put four ounces of fresh butter in a stew-pan on 
the fire, and keep stirring it until it becomes browned 
by filing. Then add a small glassful of tarragon 
vinegar, ditto of Harvey, a table-spoonfiil of chopped 
capers, a little anchovy, and either a gill of brown 
sauce or gravey. Boil this all together for five minutes, 
and serve with boiled skate or grilled mackerel. 

Cardinal Sauce. 

Put a gill of good white sauce into a stew-pan; 
add some lobster-spawn, a Uttle anchovy, and Chih 
vinegar. Boil it all together, and strain. 

Genoese Sauce. 

This sauce is made by adding a pint of brown sauce, 
a glass of red wine, a table-spoonful of mushroom 
catsup, a teaspoonful of anchovy, a small piece of 



42 Sauces. 

sugar, a li^itle nutmeg, and some chopped parsley ; 
boil together for five minutes, and then work in a pat 
of butter. This sauce is used for dressed fish. 

Tomato Sauca 
Put into a small stew-pan six sliced shallots, a bay 
leaf, and thyme, and a glassful of vinegar ; boil these 
gently for five minutes ; then add about a quarter of a 
pound of tomato pulp, an ounce of glaze, a teaspoonful 
of anchovy, and a small piece of sugar ; stir over the 
fire imtil the whole has boiled for five minutes ; then 
pass it through a pointed strainer into a small stew-pan 

for use. 

Brown Caper Sauce. 

Put four ounces of butter in a stew-pan, with an 
ounce of flour, a little nutmeg, pepper and salt ; knead 
these well together with a wooden spoon ; add half a 
pint of stock, a teaspoonful of anchovy, two of Harvey, 
a Uttle browning, a table-spoonful of capers ; stir the 
sauce over the fire until it boils; pass it through a 
pointed strainer into a clean pan for use. 

White Caper Sauce. 

Four ounces of butter, two of flour, a little nutmeg, 
pepper, and salt^ well kneaded together in a small stew- 
pan, add half a pint of white stock, stir over the fire 
till the sauce begins to boil ; let it boil for five minutes^ 
add the capers, and serve with boiled mutton. 

Piquant Sauce. 
Prepare of gherkins, capers, and shallots, aU chopped 
fine, a table-spoonful of each; place these in a small 



Sauces. 43 

stew-pan, with a little pepper and a wineglassM 
of vinegar ; set this to boil for four minutes, add half a 
pint of good stock, an ounce of brown thickening, and 
a teaspoonful of anchovy; boil, skim, and pour into a 
small stew-pan for use, 

Italian Sauce. 

Put in a stew-pan a dessert-spoonful of very finely 
chopped shallots, an equal quantity of salad oil, a bay- 
leaf, and thyme ; when the shallot is fried in a satis- 
factory manner, add thereto a good table-spoonful of 
chopped mushrooms, a glass of sherry, table-spoonful 
of mushroom catsup, teaspoonful of anchovy, half a 
pint of stock, stir over the fire until the sauce boils ; let 
it boil for ten minutes, skim it, and pour into a stew-pan 

for use. 

Maitre D'Hotel Sauce. 

Knead two ounces of fresh butter with one of flour^ 
a little nutmeg, pepper, and salt, chopped parsley, and 
juice of half a lemon. Place this mixture in a small 
stew-pan with a gill of milk ; stir over the fire till it 
boils ; add a bit more butter to smooth it, and serve. 

Ravigotte Sauce. 

Knead two ounces of firesh butter with two ounces 
of flour, a little nutmeg, pepper and salt, chopped 
parsley, and the juice of half a lemon. Put this 
mixture in a stew-pan with a gill of white stock ; stir 
it over the fire till it boils ; skim it. 

Put a dessert-spoonful of tarragon, ditto of Chili 
vinegar, ditto of Harvey, and a teaspoonful of anchovy; 



44 Sauces. 

these ingredients, being first boiled in a separate pan 
for five minutes, must be stirred into the sauce. 

Reform Sauce. 

Put some brown stock in a small pan ; to this add 
a glass of port wine, half that quantity of Harvey sauce, 
a teaspoonftil of anchovy, and two table-spoonfiils of 
red currant jelly. Boil together for five minutes, and 
pour into a clean stew-pan for use. 

Robert Sauce. 

Chop two onions very fine, and fry them with a 
piece of butter the size of a walnut in a small stew- 
pan until they get a light brown colour, then add a wine- 
glassful of vinegar and a good pinch of pepper, and boil 
these together for four minutes; next add a spoonful of 
flour; and half a pint of stock. Stir the sauce over the 
fire for twenty minutes; then add a table-spoonful of 
mustard, one of Harvey, and a teaspoonful of anchovy; 
mix well together over the fire, and serve quite hot. 

Lobster Sauce. 

Split a lobster; remove the pith, coral, and spawn, 
and pound them with an equal proportion of butter in 
a mortar, and afterwards rub through a hair sieve, on a 
plate; break the shell, and having removed all the 
meat, cut it into small square pieces; next prepare 
some melted butter ; to this add the spawn and the 
pieces of lobster. Season with the juice of half a 
lemon, a teaspoonful of anchovy, and a pinch of 
cayenne pepper, and serve hot. 



Sauces. 45 

- - 

Indian Sauce. 

Half a pint of tomato sauce, dessert-spoonful of 
curry paste, a bit of glaze^ a little anchovy ; boil 
together. Strain and serve. 

Shrimp Sauce. 

Prepare butter sauce ; to this add a teaspoonful of 
anchovy, a small pinch of cayenne, a httle lemon juice, 
and a bit of lobster butter to colour and flavour it ; 
lastly, throw in the picked shrimps, and serve hot. 

Mussel Sauce. 

Put a quart of washed mussels into a stew-pan, with 
a gill of water and a teaspoonful of salt ; place the Hd 
on the pan ; set the mussels on a brisk flre to scald. 
This will be effected in a few minutes, and may be 
ascertained by the separation of the shells showing the 
plump, white mussels. These should be instantly taken 
off the fire, their Uquor strained into a basin, and the 
mussels removed from their shells upon a plate ; next 
make some butter sauce ; beat three yolks of eggs ; add 
to the liquor and mussels ; heat all together ; and add a 
little cream ; and serve hot. 

Anchovy Sauce. 

To some butter sauce add a dessert-spoonful of 

anchovy butter, a pinch of cayenne, and some lemon 

juice. 

White Oyster Sauce. 

First scald and beard the oysters, and save their 
liquor ; next mix one ounce of butter with one ounce 



46 Sauces. 

of flour, in a stew-pan. Add the liquor, a gill of cream 
or milk, a little nutmeg, cayenne, anchovy, and lemon 
juice. Stir over the fire imtil the sauce boils; then 
add the oysters, and serve hot. 

Brown Oyster Sauce. 

Prepare the oysters as in the foregoiQg recipe; 

boil down their liquor; add half a pint of brown sauce. 

Season with a Httle anchovy, cayenne, and lemon juice. 

Add the oysters; boil together for a few minutes, and 

serve hot. 

Egg Sauce. 

Boil two eggs hard, which will require six minutes ; 
remove the shells ; mince the eggs, and put these into 
some well-made butter sauce, and serve hot. 

Parsley Sauce. 

Chop and parboil for three minutes a handful of 
parsley ; drain free from water, and add this to some 
melted butter or any other white sauce ; work in a 
pat of butter to smooth the sauce, and serve hot. 

The Prince of Wales' Sauce. 

Four hard yolks of eggs, four anchovies, a handftil 
of tarragon, chervil, bumet, chives (these to be par- 
boiled, and afterwards pressed in a cloth, to extract all 
the water), a table-spoonful of capers, the same of 
mustard, and three raw yolks of eggs ; place all these 
in a mortar, bruise them together with a pestle, and 
then proceed to work in nearly half a pint of salad oil, 
and half a gill of tarragon vinegar by degrees ; when 



Sauces. 47 

this is done, rub the sauce through a hair sieve. This 
sauce is used for broiled fish, also for all kinds of 
salads of fish, poultry, or game, 

Dutch Sauce. 

Make some butter sauce rather thin, take the pan off 
the fire, stir in the yolk of an egg well beaten, a tea- 
. spoonful of vinegar, pepper and salt, then add a little 
sweet cream ; beat all together with a whisk, make it 
hot ; be careftd not to boil it after the yolk of egg has 
been added, as in that case it would curdle. 

Clear Tarragon Sauce. 

To a pint of good white stock add a small bunch of 
tarragon, the white of an egg whipped in a very 
little water, and a teaspoonful of tarragon vinegar ; 
continue whisking this over the fire until it boils, and 
then remove it to the side, there to remain boiling imtil 
the egg is thoroughly set hard, and the aspic is per- 
fectly bright ; then strain it through a napkin into a 
stew-pan, and boil it down to the consistency of half 
glaze. This sauce is used for quenelles, and boiled 
fowls or chickens. 

Mayonaise Sauce. 

Take a round-bottomed basin, place therein three 
yolks of eggs, and with a wooden spoon proceed ta 
work by stirring quickly, add about half a pint of salad 
oil, and half a gill of tarragon vinegar ; these must be 
incorporated by degrees; and in order to produce the 
sauce in perfection, it must present the appearance of a 



48 Sauces. 

firm, creamy substance. This cold sauce is especially 
adapted for chicken and lobster salads. When made, 
pepper and salt must be added^ also two table-spoonfuls 
of very thick cream. 

Soubise Sauce. 

Peel and slice eight large onions, and put them into 
a stew-pan with two ounces of butter, a little nutmeg, 
pepper, and salt ; place the lid on, and set this to stew 
very slowly, until the onions are nearly dissolved ; next 
add four ounces of flour, two fresh boiled potatoes, and 
a pint of white stock, half a pint of cream ; stir over 
the fire for a quarter of an hour, and then rub through 
a hair sieve; keep hot in a covered stewpan until 
used. 

Cardinal Sauce. 

Put a gill of white stock into a small stew-pan, a very 
little flour and butter, add a lump of lobster spawn, and 
a little anchovy and Chili vinegar. 

Mustard Sauce. 

Add some butter sauce to a teaspoonful of mustard, 
a dessert-spoonful of Chili vinegar, and a little anchovy ; 
make hot, and serve with broiled or fried herrings. 

Bread Sauce. 

Take two ounces of bread crumbs, and put them 
into a pan with a shallot, pepper and salti half a pint 
of milk, and a pat of butter ; boil and stir for five 
xninutes ; take out the shallot, serve hot. 



Sauces. 49 

Matelotte Sauce. 

Make about half a pint of white sauce ; scald and 
beard two dozen oysters ; add them to the sauce with 
their Kquor; also a little mushroom catsup; a tea- 
spoonfal anchovy paste; the juice of half a lemon; stir 
and boil on the fire for a few minutes ; beat the yolks 
of two eggs ; mix them with half a gill of cream ; pour 
it into the sauce, and stir over the fire for a few 
minutes ; and serve with dressed fish. 

St Clair Sauce. 

Slice an onion into a stew-pan ; add a piece of but- 
ter ; fry quite brown ; season with pepper and salt ; 
add a wineglassful of water ; the same of brown sherry 
with a teaspoonful of catsup ; place the lid on the pan, 
and let it stew gently for twenty minutes. Thicken it 
with a teaspoonful of flour made into a smooth paste 
with water ; boil, strain, and serve up very hot with 
Bouchet, or boiled fish. 

Sauce for Trout. 

Put two pats of butter into a small stew-pan, add a 
table-spoonfiil of flour ; mix it well, and make it hot ; 
then add a little hot water, and boil the sauce to 
the thickness of thin cream ; then add the yoke of 
an egg well beaten, a teaspoonful of vinegar, a little 
chopped parsley, and salt to taste. 

Green Gooseberry Sauce. 

Boa a pint oi green gooseberries; drain off the 
water, and rub them through a hair sieve. Put this 



50 Satices. 

pulp into a stew-pan, with a wine-glassful of spinacli 
juice ; add a little piece of butter, a pinch of sugar, 
a little grated nutmeg; pepper and salt to taste. 
Make it hot, and serve with boiled or grilled mackerel. 

Fennel Sauce. 

Chop fine a handful of fennel, and parboil it for 
three minutes ; drain free from water, and add this to 
flome plain butter sauce ; work in a small pat of butter 
to make it smooth, and serve hot. 

Port Wine Sauce for Wild Ducks. 

Add the juice of half a lemon to a glass of port 
wine, three shallots sliced, a pinch of cayenne pepper, 
a table-spoonful of Harvey sauce ; boil for three minutes, 
and strain it into a sauce boat. 

Allemande Sauce. 

Put a pint of white stock into a sauce-pan ; thicken 
it with two spoonfuls of flour, a few sliced mushrooms, 
or some mushroom juice. Reduce this by stirring it 
over the fire for ten minutes ; then remove it fi*om the 
fire for a few minutes ; beat up the yolks of four eggs ; 
mix them with half a pint of cream, a httle grated 
nutmeg, pepper and salt, a teaspoonful of pounded 
sugar, and the juice of half a lemon ; pour it into the 
pan, stirring all the time. Now place the pan on the 
stove; keep stirring; make the sauce very hot in 
order to thicken it, but do not allow it to boil, as that 
would spoil the sauce. Now strain it off for use. 



Sauces. 5 1 

Brone Sauce, 

Mix with a gill of salad oil in a basin, half a gill of 
vinegar, two ounces of brown sugar, the juice of an 
orange, and a tablespoonful of mustard. Mix well 
together, and serve. 

Salmis Sauce. 

Chop up small some trimmings of roast game, and 
put these into a stew-pan, with a bay leaf, a sprig 
of thyme, and a tablespoonful of salad oil; fry the whole 
of a light brown colour, then add a glass of white wine, 
and half a pint of brown stock ; boil gently on the 
comer of the stove for ten minutes; remove the grease 
and scum ; strain into a stew-pan for use. 

Mushroom Sauce. 

One pint of mushroom buttons, salt to taste, a little 

grated nutmeg, one blade of mace, one pint of cream, 

two ounces of butter, and flour to thicken it ; boil all 

together for ten minutes. This sauce should be the 

thickness of double cream, and is excellent for boiled 

fowls. 

Sauce for Boiled Fowls, 

Put some new milk in a pan with one ounce of fresh 
butter ; mix two table-spoonfuls of flour in a little cold 
milk, pour it into the pan, put it on the stove, keep 
stirring until it boils; grate some ham or tongue, mix 
with the sauce, pour over the fowls. 

Horse-radish Sauce. 
Scrape, clean, and grate a stalk of horse-radish, and 
put it into a basin ; add thereto half a gill of cream^ 



52 Sauces. 

same of milk, a dessert-spoonful of made mastard, the 
same of pounded sugar, a teaspoonful of salt, a little 
pepper, and a table-spoonful of vinegar ; mix well to- 
gether, and serve it cold in a sauce boat, with roast beef. 

Celery Sauce. 

Thoroughly cleanse four heads of celery, and slice 
them very thin ; put this into a stew-pan, with nutmeg, 
pepper and salt, and four ounces of butter, and an 
onion sliced. Put the lid on the stew-pan, and set it 
over a slow fire to stew very gently, until the celery is 
dissolved without acquiring any colour ; then add four 
oimces of flour, and a pint of milk ; stir again over the 
fire until the sauce has boiled twenty minutes, and then 
having rubbed it through a sieve, put it into a stew-pan 
to be used for boiled poultry or game. 

Shallot Gravy. 

Peel six shallots, and put them into a stew-pan, 
with a glass of vinegar, pepper and salt ; boil for six 
minutes ; add a gill of brown gravy, and boil a Kttle 
longer ; strain through a sieve ; serve for broiled meat. 

Russian Sauce. 

Put a stalk of horse-radish, scraped, into a stew-pan, 
four sliced shallots, a bay leaf, and thyme, a little raw 
ham chopped, nutmeg, pepper and salt, a dessert-spoon- 
ful of sugar, a small glass of vinegar, table-spoonful of 
wine, and an ounce of butter. Put the lid on, and set 
this to simmer over a very slow fire for about twenty 
minutes; then add rather more than a gill of white 



Sauces. ' 53 

sauce, four yolks of eggs, and a gill of cream ; stir this 
over the fire until it begins to boil, and then strain it 
through a tammy into a stew-pan, for use. 

Mint Sauce. 

Take twelve stalks of green mint; pick off the 
leaves, and wash them ; mince them very small ; take 
a tea-cupful of vinegar ; add two table-spoonfuls of raw 
sugar, a cupful of water, and mix them well to dissolve 
the sugar 5 serve in a sauce tureen with roast lamb, 
either hot or cold. / - : i; 

• • • 

' '' Apple' Sauce. \ 

Stew some apples with a little sugar, a very 
little butter, and a wine-glassful of water ; when ten- 
der, rub through a sieve, and serve with goose and 
roasted pork. 

Pufr-Pa§te for Patties. 

One pound of flour, one pound of butter, one small 
egg well beaten; if the butter is fresh, add one tea- 
spoonful of table salt ; and about half a pint of water. 

Place the flour on the pastry slab; spread it out 
in the centre so as to form a well, in-^whibh place 
the salt, a small piece of the butter,-the egg, and two- 
thirds of the water required to mix the paste. With 
the tips of the fingers mix>the ingredients, grcwiually 
adding a little more- watefr if necessary. Whfen the 
whole is thoroughly incorporated, sprinkle ar few drops 
of water on it, and work the sponge to and fro 
on the slAb for two minutes, after which it should 
be elastic, soft, and smooth ta the touch. The' paste 



54 Satues. 

thus far prepared must now be spread out with 
the bent knuckles of the right hand on the slab, and 
having pressed the butter in a cloth to extract any 
milk it may contain, place it in the centre of the paste, 
and partially spread it by pressing on it with a cloth. 
The four sides should then be folded over so as entirely 
to cover the butter. 

Shake a little flour over and under it. Shape the 
paste in a square form, measuring about ten inches 
each way ; place this on a flat dish, put it way for ten 
minutes in a very cool place to keep it firm ; roll it out 
on the slab with a rolling pin, and shake a little flour 
over and imder the paste, to prevent it from sticking 
either to the rolling pin or slab. Boll the paste out to 
about thirty inches in length; fold it in three equal 
folds ; press these together by running the rolling pin 
over the paste ; turn it round and roll it out again the 
reverse way, in the same manner and length as before. 
Fold it in three equally, fasten these folds by running 
the rolling pin over them with pressure, and set the 
paste back in a cool place to firm for eight or ten 
minutes. At the end of this time give two other turns 
as just described, and having rested for other eight 
minutes, it must receive two more turns previous to its 
being cut out for baking. 

The next thing to be done is, when after the last 
turn has been given to the paste, and it has been rolled 
out to the thickness of the fourth of an inch, and has 
been allowed to rest in a cool place for five minutes, 
with a plain or fluted round tin patty cutter to stamp 
out as many patties as you require. Place these on a 



Sauces. 55 

taking sheet, egg over their surfaces, and with another 
plain tin round cutter, less in diameter than the one 
with T^hich the patties have been stamped out, make a 
•circular incision in the centre of the patty, and with 
the smaller cutter cut out some of the paste for tops to 
the patties; The tops of the cases and their lids must 
le brushed over slightly with a beaten egg. They 
XQUst now be placed on a baking sheet, and put in a 
brisk oven, and baked about twenty minutes ; and 
when done remove the tops and the crumbs from the 
interior with a small pointed knife. The patties being 
made according to the foregoing directions, are to be 
filled just before sending to table with prepared oysters, 
or shell-fish of any kind, game, or poultry. 





FISH ENTREES. 



Oyster Patties. 

To prepare oysters for patties, put fresh oysters in a 
pan with a small blade of mace, scald them, but do not 
let them boil ; pick but the oysters and beard them ; 
pour the liquor through a sieve. Put a little piece of 
fresh butter in a small stew-pan ; add a little flour, half 
the weight of the butter ; mix the two together, then 
• pour in the liquor of the oysters, and boU it for a few 
minutes. Cut the oysters in two, add them to the 
sauce, season with pepper and salt, a Httle grated nut- 
meg, and a Httle thick, swdet cream. Make the case» 
very hot, then fill with the mixture; sprinkle a few 
fried bread crumbs on the top ; put on their lids ; dish 
them on a napkm,«and serve them very hot. 

Frittered Oysters. '■ 

Take some large, fresh oysters, dust them with a 
little flour, dip them in beaten egg, and roll them in 
fine bread crumbs; fry them in a pan, with boiling 
lard, to a light brown colour : three or four minutes 
will cook them. Pile them in the middle of an entree 
dish, shake fried bread crumbs on the top, and thicken 
their own liquor and pour it round them. 



Fi!sk < Entrees* 5? "^ 

Curried Oysters. ■ ' 

Take fifty or more oysters, scald them a little, beard 
them, and strain their liquor in a basin; next put a 
piece df l)utter, and the same weight of'\flour in a 
eauta-pan; make it hot, atid mix it well ; then add one" 
dessert-Spoonful of curry powder, half that quantity of 
curry paste; boil all together. Add the oysters, and ^ 
eeason with salt; let it simmer very dowly for ten 
minutes. HaVe some rice, plain boiled, and very well 
dried; faiake a wall of rice round the dish, take the pan 
with the curry firom the fire,' add a wineglassful of thick 
creani to the curry. Pouir the whole in the middle of 
the dish, and serve very hot. A few sprigs of parsley 
might be put round the dish. 

Oyster Ciltiets. 

Beard the oysters, and strain their liquor. Flry some 
bread crumbia with a little butter; add them to the 
liquor; mince the oysters with a little parsley; put all 
these in a small pan and boil for a little. Season* with ; 
pepper and salt, add the yolks of two eggs, let it cool \ r 
shape the cutlets, egg and bread-crumb them. Fry in 
boiling lard, garnish with parsley, serve hot. 

Oyster Croquets. 

Scald and beard two dozen oysters, cut each into 
four pieces, and set them aside on a plate. Next, with 
their liquor, make some oyster sauce ; reduce the sauce 
by boiling down over the fire ; add a bit of glaze, and 
three yolks 0f eggs, a little cayenne, lemon juice, and 
anchovy, and having stirred the sauce again over th^ 



58 Fish Entries. 



fire to set the eggs, add the cut-up oysters ; stir these 
in to mix them with the sauce, and make the oysters 
hot through. The mixture must not be boiled after the 
eggs have been added. Spread it out on a dish, let it 
become cold, then form the croquets in the shape of 
small pears, balls, or corks. Again have them dipped 
in beaten egg, rolled in bread crumbs, placed in a wire 
&yiDg basket, and fried in hot frying fat of a light 
colour, and dished on a napkin, with fried bread crumbs 
sprinkled over them, and garnished round about with 
fried parsley. 

Scolloped Oysters. 

Semove the beards from some dozens of oysters^ 
strain the hquor in a stew-pan, add thereto two ounces 
of butter, mixed with two ounces of flour, a little cream, 
anchovy, nutmeg, and cayenne; stir the sauce over the 
fire to boil, and reduce for ten minutes, then add a 
couple of yolks of eggs, a little lemon juice, and some 
chopped parsley. Add the oysters, cut each into halves ; 
stir all together over the fire for a few minutes, and fill 
some scollop shells with this preparation ; cover them 
over with a thick coating of fried bread crumbs ; place 
them on a baking sheet in the oven for five minutes, 
and serve them quite hot. 

If you have no scollop shells, the deep shell of the 
oyster well cleaned will serve the purpose. 

Scolloped Mussels. 

These are prepared similarly to oysters, and placed 
in scollop shells likewise. 



Fish Entries. 59 



Scolloped Cockles are done in the same way as 
mussels, and baked in oyster shells, or on a flat dish 
that will withstand the oven. 

Scolloped Lobster, 

Split a fresh boiled lobster into halves, by cutting it 
through with a strong knife &om head to tail, take out 
all the meat without damaging the shell; trim the 
ragged edges of the two halves of the body-shell, and 
likewise the tail and claw pieces. Let all the meat be 
cut into small squares, and reserved in a plate. Pound 
the pith, coral, and spawn of the lobster in a mortar 
with a small bit of butter. Rub it through a sieve, and 
put this into a stew-pan, with a little white sauce, a 
little anchovy, nutmeg, cayenne, and lemon juice ; and 
having stirred the sauce over the fire for a few minutes, 
add the lobster and the yolks of two raw eggs, stir 
again over the fire to make it hot, fill the prepared 
lobster shells with this, cover them over with fried 
bread crumbs, salamander them, and dish up on a 
folded napkin with fried parsley. 

Note. — Oysters and mussels being first prepared 
(as described for Scolloped Oysters) may be served on 
dry toast. This is called Oyster Toasts or Mussel Toast, 

Lobster Croquets. 

Take one or two lobsters as may be required. If 
alive, put them in boiling water and boil them for 
twenty minutes ; when cold, break up the lobster, take 
all the meat carefully out of the shells, and mince it 
small; then put the bruised coral and spawn into a 



6o Fish Entries. 



fiauta-pan, with two spoonftils of white sauce, and three 
yolks of eggs, a» little i?utmeg, cayenne, and anchoyy. 
Stir this over the fire with a wooden spoon to set the , 
egg firm in the mixture. When .this is done turn the 
croquet meat out on a plate, and set it to cool, and 
finish as directed for Oyster Croquets. 

Note. — ^Attention must be paid to the proper time 
required for boiling a lobster. If it is boiled too long 
the flesh becomes thready and disagreeable ; and if not 
done enough the spawn is not red through. This must 
be obviated by great attention. 

Lobster Loaf. 

Boil a lobster, and take off the four large claws; 
break the shells without bruising the meat; put the. 
meat of the claws away on a plate. Next take all the' 
meat from the body-and small claws, poimd it in the 
mortar with an egg, and a little fresh butter ; add a 
little chopped parsley, pepper, and salt to taste ; then 
butter a jelly pot of a proper size to hold the mixture ; 
put the mixture into the jelly pot, tie a piece of white 
paper over it, steam it, in a flat pto with a little boiling 
water, put the lid close on the pan and steam for half 
an hour. While the loaf is steaming take a small 
sauta-pan, and pour in a little clear brown stock, 
thicken with a little arrowroot, season with a tea- 
spoonfiil of vinegar, pepper and salt to taste; then 
place the meat of the claws into the pan with the 
sauce, put the lid on the pan, stew very slowly for ten 
minutes, when the entree is to be served; turn out 
the loaf on the middle of the dish, put the claws round 



Fish Entrees. 6l 



it, pour sauce over all, place the shell of the head on 
the top of the loaf for ornament. 

Lobster Cutlets. 

When the lobster has been boiled and become cold, 
take out all the meat, mince it very fine, brown two 
ounces of butter with a table-spoonful of flour, and put 
in the mince ; season with white pepper, a pinch of 
cayenne, one teaspoonful of lemon pickle, and two 
table-spoonfuls of white stock or gravy, and stir it 
over the fire until it is well ipSked, and quite hot. If 
one lobster, beat up one egg; if more, two will be 
required. Add to the mince, and stir it a little ; lay 
it upon a dish until it is cold, make them in the form of 
lamb cutlets, brush them over with beat yolks of eggs, 
and shake bread crumbs over them; have the flying 
pan ready with plenty of boiling lard or firesh drippings; 
fry them a nice light brown. Stick into the narrow 
end of the cutlet a joint of the small. claw, place them 
upon a napkin round the dish, and garnish with parsley 
in the centre. 

Crab Cutlets are done in the same way as Lobster 
Cutlets. 

Bouches of Lobster. 

Take a fresh boiled hen lobster, break the shell and 
remove the meat, coral, and spawn. Steep four ounces 
of bread crumbs in warm milk, and wring it in a cloth 
to extract the moisture, and add it to the lobster. 
Pound it in a mortar, with four ounces of butter, two 
whole eggs, and two yolks; season with a teaspoonful 
of anchovy, a little grated nutmeg, pepper and salt. 



62 Fish Entries. 



Pound and mix the forcemeat thoroughly; then make 
it up into balls about the size of a walnut, flatten them 
slightly to prevent them rolling, and place them in a 
pan with plenty of boiling water, seasoned with a little 
salt, and poach them for about ten minutes. Remove 
them £rom the pan, and place them on a hot, flat dish. 
Cover each bouch with thick white sauce. Dish them 
on a stand of puff-paste about half-an-inch thick; 
sprinkle over with a little of the lobster coral, and 
serve hot. 





MEAT ENTREES. 



Fillets of Beef. 

Take some slices of the middle of the fillet, retaining 
the fat an inch thick, and season with a little pepper 
and salt ; melt a little fresh butter on a plate, dip those 
slices in the butter, that the gravy may not drop out 
whilst broiling. Put the gridiron on a clear fire, make 
it hot, rub it with suet, then broil the fillets, turning 
them every minute; eight or ten minutes will cook 
them. When done a nice brown colour, dish them on 
a very hot dish ; garnish with olives, and horse-radish 
scraped, and put in the centre of the dish in the form 
of a rose ; serve with a little pure beef gravy, made 
hot, and poured round the dish. This dish may be 
garnished with potato ribands or chips. 

To make potato ribands, peel raw potatoes with a 
sharp knife ; run it round the potato, cutting a long 
thin slice resembling a riband, two inches wide and 
five or more in length ; put these in a flying basket, 
and fry in boiling fat till brown and crisp; cut the 
chips in thin slices, and fry them the same way. 

Beef Olives. 

Cut some thin slices of beef from the steak piece ; 
prepare a force-meat of bread crumbs, minced suet, a 



64 Meat Entries. 



little chopped parsley, and one eg^ ; mix well together, 
a-nd put a little bit of the force meat over the steaks; 
roll and tie thepa up with tape. Make them so as to 
stand on their ends, when you are to dish them. Take 
a stew-pan that will just hpLd them ; brown a piece of 
butter with flour ; brown the olives well; add a little 
boiling stock, a few snjall onions, put on the cover 
close; stew them slowly for an hour. Add a little 
ketchup, and cayenne pepper; when they are cooked, 
take them up on a dish ; cut oflT the string ; have them 
all the eamQ, length. Sl^rain the. stock; free it from 
grease ; put it back into the pan, and also the olives, 
and make them very hot, . Put some beat potatoes on 
the centre of the dish ; stick the olives on their ends 
in the potatoes ; garnish with pickled vegetables 
according to taste ; pour gravy round the dish. 

Rolled Beef CoUops. 
Chop some mushroom, parsley, and shallots; fry 
these with an ounce of butter, season with nutmeg, 
pepper and salt, and lemon juice, add two yolks of eggs, 
stir over the fire until the herbs are thickened, and then 
divide this composition among the prepared collops of 
beef, and roll them up in the form of large corks, then 
place them in a sauta-pan, in some clarified butter, set 
them in the oven for ten minutes, and when done, drain 
and dish them up neatly, pour some brown oyster sauce 
over them and serve. 

Fillets of Beef with Mushroom Sauce. 
For this purpose, procure about a pound and a half 
of fillets of beef, pare off all sinew and excess of fat, cut 



Meat Entries. 6$ 



the fillet in slices about half an inch thick, and season 
them on a plate with a little oil, pepper and salt; broil 
on both sides ; pour some brown mushroom sauce over 
them, have ready boiled carrots, turnips, and beet-root; 
scoop them out with a small cutter, make them hot, and 
sprinkle over the fillets. 

Ox Palates, Brazed. 

The ox palates must be soaked in water with a 
handful of salt for several hours; they must next be^ 
parboiled in water, with salt, until the thorny skin 
which covers the roof part is easilj; scraped off. When 
thoroughly washed, they must be put in a stew-pan 
with carrot, onion, celery, a Httle parsley, six cloves, 
mace, pepper corps, a little salt, and three quarts of 
*water or stock, and boiled very gently for four hours* 
When quite tender they must be put in press between 
two dishef until-cold; then cut themin nice squfire pieces,, 
or stamp them out with a circular tin cutter the size 
of a crown-piece, and put in a stew-pan with some of 
their own stock previously boiled down to half glaze, 
and simmered for ten minute's. Place them neatly 
round the dish; pour Italian, or any other brown sauce 
ov6r the palates ; place mushrooms, green peas, or 
asparagus peas in the centre of the dish. 

Ox Palates, Stuffed. 

: Get four ox palates ; wash them well with salt and. 
vt^ater"; put theni on to boil slowly for one hour. Then 
take them out and skin them; let the water remain; 
fieduce it to half ^ pint, and strain it. When the 



66 Meat Entries, 



palates are cold, trim them neatly ; spread them over 
with plain stuffing. Boll them up and tie them with a 
piece of tape. Brown a piece of butter with flour. Brush 
the palates over with a beaten egg, put them in the 
fitew-pan, and brown them ; pour in the stock which has 
been strained, shake them till they boil, and let them 
simmer till wanted. Before dishing, add a teaspoonful 
of ketchup, cut oflT the tape, place them neatly round 
the dish, and pour the sauce in the centre. 

Ox Palates, Curried, 

Wash, parboil, and skin the palates ; cut them as for 
brazing, put them in a stew-pan, and cover them with 
brown stock, two sliced onions, and a little salt, then 
add two teaspoonfiils of curry powder, one of curry 
paste^ and a dessert-spoonful of flour in a little stock. 
Put all these ingredients into the pan with the palates, 
stir it occasionally to prevent it burning. When the 
palates are quite tender and ready to dish, add two 
table-spoonfiils of cream, and serve the curried ox 
palates in a border of plain boiled rice. 

Veal Cutlets. 

Cut some slices from the neck of veal, beat up one 
egg, mince a little parsley, lemon thyme, and season 
with pepper, nutmeg, and salt. Dip the cutlets into 
it, and bread crumb them, brown a piece of butter with 
flour, and brown the cutlets. Add a little stock, and 
let them stew for half an hour ; add a little lemon juice, 
pepper and salt, dish them, and pour gravy over them. 



Meat Entries. 67 



Veal Cutlets, a la Financlere. 

About six bones of the best end of a neck of veal 
will be required for this purpose. The chin bone must 
first be removed with a small saw, and also the upper 
part of the cutlet or rib bones, leaving the bones 
intended to form the cutlets only about three inches 
long. T^he cutlets must then be divided, trimmed, and 
closely larded ; next overlay the bottom of a stew-pan 
with sliced carrot, onion, celery, parsley, and an onion 
stuck with four cloves. Place the larded cutlets on 
this bed of vegetables, moisten with stock or water, just 
enough to reach up to the edge of the larding. Set 
the pan on the fire to boil, and then put it in the oven 
to braze for about an hour and a half, basting them 
frequently with their own liquor; when they are 
cooked, and of a nice brown colour, dish up the cutlets, 
with the bones imder, thus showing the larded part 
uppermost. Use the strained stock from the cutlets to 
make the sauce; pour the sauce round the dish; fill up 
the well in the centre with stewed mushrooms, or 
green peas. 

Veal Frlncandelles. 

One pound of veal, haJf-a-pound of fat of veal 
chopped very finely together, the crumbs of a French 
roll well soaked in boiling milk, and then drained, 
mix it with the veal, add two eggs well beaten, season 
with pepper and salt, and a little nutmeg. Make this 
into balls the size of a walnut, dress them with egg, 
and bread crumbs. Fry them in boiling lard, make 
them a light brown colour, take them firom the lard. 



68 Meat Entries. 

* 



drain them on paper. Stew them in good stock for 
half an hour; dish them, and pour the gravy over 
them. 

Veal Sweetbreads, with White Mushroom Sauce. 

Wash the sweetbreads, put them on to boil for half 
an hour; when cold trim them, cut off the pieces of fat, 
put them back into a clean pan that will just hold them ;: 
cover them with white stock, stew them till tender; dish 
them on a bed of beat potatoes; pour white mushroom 
sauce over them. Take the half of a lemon and sUce it, 
cut the slices in leaves, and ornament the dish. 

« 

Sweetbreads Larded with Truffles. 
J?arboil the sweetbreads; press and trim them. 
Cut each sweetbread in two, in the form of cutlets. 
Glaze them slightly; take some truffles, and slice 
them length ways, then cut them in chips, as you 
would cut almonds for a tipsy cake, and with a larding 
needle pull the -chips of truffles through the sweet- 
breads, leaving half-inch lengths of truffles sticking 
up all over the sweetbreads. ; Then put the isweet- 
breads in a sauta-pan, with some good,' clean brown 
stock. Stfew them very gently until tender; dish 
them in a hot entree dish; mix a Uttle arrowfoot in 
coldwdter — add^ thb stock. BoU-foru few niinutes; 
season with pepper and salt; pour round the' sweet- 
breads. 

Sweetbreads with White Sauce. 

Sweetbreads might be done in the same way as 
above, and served with white saucel' After the sweet- 



Meat Entries. 69 



breads have been thoroughly cooked and trimmed, 
have some cream bechamel sauce ready ; beat up the 
yolk of an e^^^ ; add it to a teacupful of the sauce ; 
pour it over the sweetbreads ; stick them with tru£Q[es ; 
make hot ; pour sauce round them. 

Sweetbreads, a la Toulouse. 
Soak the sweetbreads in water for two hours to 
extract all the blood; parboil them for five minutes, 
just to firm them, and after being cooled in water, 
trim and lard them closely ; place them in a deep sauta- 
pan on a thin bed of sliced carrot, onion, and celery ; 
moisten with just enough stock to reach up to the 
commencement of the larding. Put them in a rather 
hot oven to braze for about twenty minutes, basting 
them frequently with their own liquor, and when done, 
salamandered, and glazed, pile them up on a bed of 
asparagus peas ; strain the stock, thicken it a little, 
skim off the fat and pour it round the sweetbreads. 

To Dress Sweetbreads Plain. 
Boil and trim the sweetbreads, beat up an egg, 
season it with pepper, salt, and nutmeg. Brush them 
over with the egg; roll them in bread-crumbs; fry 
them in boiling lard or dripping ; put them before the 
fire to drain, and keep them hot. Have a dish of 
spinach, or boiled whole rice. Place it in the centre 
of the dish, and the sweetbreads round it, serve with 

beef gravy. 

Cutlet, a la Jardiniere. 

Take the best end of neck of mutton, cut some neat 
chops, lay them in a stew-pan, cover them with some 



JO Meat Entries. 



good gravy, add onion and carrot; cut some sweet 
herbs, pepper and salt, stew them gently till tender ; 
then take them ont and strain the gravy, add a little 
glaze, pnt the whole in the pan for a short time, and 
serve with onion sauce. 

Mutton or Lamb CutletSi with Tomato Sauce. 

Cut the cutlets off the loin and back ribs and trim 
them ; then dip them in the beaten yolk of eggs ; have 
some parsley minced, a little nutmeg, the grating of a 
lemon, pepper and salt. Mix these together and dip 
the cutlets into it. Have a frying-pan, with plenty 
frying fat, fry them on both sides till they become a 
nice light brown ; then put them before the fire upon 
clean paper to drain ; dish them in a circle round the 
dish ; pour some tomato sauce round them, and some 
whole tomatoes in the centre — when whole tomato is not 
to be had, green peas or asparagus peas may be sub- 
stituted, and also a macedoine of vegetables. 

To Prepare a Macedoine of Vegetables. 

Scrape two or more carrots clean and smooth, and 
peel a like number of soimd turnips, and then with 
French vegetable scoops proceed to shape the carrots 
and turnips into the form of olives, filberts, almonds, 
or peas ; boil these in water ; when done, drain them 
dry and place them in a small sauta-pan with a like 
quantity of green peas, asparagus peas, nibs of 
cauliflower, and French beans cut in the shape of 
diamonds. All these vegetables must be previously 
cooked and well drained. Add two table-spoonfuls of 



i 



Meat Entries. yi 



stocky a little pepper and salt, and a teaspoonful of 
sugar; toss the macedoine lightly together over the 
fire, and serve when required. 

Reform Chips. 

Boiled red parts of carrots, turnips, black truffles, 
lean part of boiled ham, hard-boiled whites of eggs, 
and the outer part of green gherkins. These must be 
neatly shred into strippets about an inch in length, and 
as narrow as they can be cut. These chips should be 
made hot in a basin in the screen^ tossed lightly to 
mix them, and piled up in the centre of cutlets, a la 
Reforme. 

Mutton Cutlets, a la Reforme. 

Trim the cutlets, season them with pepper and salt, 
dip them in beaten eggs, and then bread-crumb them 
with equal parts of dried bread crumbs and finely- 
chopped lean cooked ham mixed together. The cutlets 
must then be fned on both sides, and, when thoroughly 
done, are to be dished up in a circle, the centre gar- 
nished with reform chips ; pour some reform sauce over 
the cutlets, and serve. 

Soubise Cutlets. 

Boil a loin of mutton till rather under done; when 
cold, cut it up in neat cutlets, season them with pepper 
and salt ; have a small panful of soubise sauce ready, 
beat up the yolks of two eggs, pour some of the sauce 
to the yolks, add a little cream, the grating of a nut- 
meg, pepper and salt: when quite cold and thick; 
take a knife and spread a coating of this mixture on 



72 Meat Entries. 



one fiide of each cutlet, smooth it nicely with a knife ; 
cut a few truffles in slices, and with a small tin cutter 
cut small stars or diamonds from the truffles, place one 
of these on each cutlet, bake them in the oven a nice 
brown colour ; dish them in a circle, pour some plain 
soubise sauce round the cutlets. 

Mutton Cutlets, a la Vicomtesse. 

Trim, season, and fry the cutlets, and when done on 
both sides, add chopped mushrooms, a little cooked 
ham, parsley, and shallots; season with nutmeg, pepper 
and salt, the juice of a lemon, and a pinch of sugar. 
Add a tablespoonful of flour, moisten with half a pint 
of stock, and an ounce of glaze ; stir the sauce on the 
fire until it has boiled for twenty minutes, and reduced 
to a proper thickness ; about four raw yolks of eggs 
must then be added, and stirred in with the sauce 
over the fire to bind it. The cutlets and sauce should 
now be allowed to cool partially, and then each cutlet 
must be covered over with some of the sauce and 
placed flat on a dish to become cold and set firm, so as 
it may be properly egged and bread-crumbed. Place 
the cutlets flatly and in order in a frying basket; 
immerse them in boiling lard, and fry them of a light 
brown colour, dish them up with a small paper frill on 
the bone of each cutlet ; garnish the centre with any 
kind of dressed vegetables. Pour some sauce round 
the cutlets, and serve hot. 

Lamb Cutlets may be dressed the same way as 
Mutton Cutlets. 



Meat Entr^s. 73 



Fillets of Muttoiii Stewed. 

Remove the fillets from the spinal bones of a loin of 
mntton, and then, having pared away all the fat and 
sinew, divide it across in two equal parts ; again sub- 
divide these lengthwise, each into four fillets. If 
properly cut they will not require trimming. Season 
the fillets with pepper and salt ; put a piece of butter 
in a stew-pan, with a spoonful of flour; brown it 
slightly ; put the fillets into the pan ; brown them on 
both sides ; add brown stock to cover them. Let them 
stew slowly until tender. When done, dish them in a 
circle upon a bed of beat potatoes, with a macedoine 
of vegetables in the centre of the fillets. Skim all the 
fat off the sauce, and pour over the fillets, and serve 
the whole very hot. 

Tendons of Veal. 

That part of the calf which is called tendons con- 
sists of the gristly portion of the breast bone, which 
has not yet become hardened into bone. Divide the 
tendon or gristle part into square pieces, the size of a 
cutlet ; place these in a stew-pan, on a bed of carrots, 
onions, turnips, celery, parsley, six cloves, a few 
pepper-corns, and a little salt ; add suffieient stock, or 
water, to swim them. Put the lid on, and set them 
to braze very gently on a slow fire for about four hours. 
When the tendons are done through, which will be 
ascertained by their becoming almost transparent, and 
comparatively soft to the probe of a fork, they must 
be carefully removed, with a small skimmer, one by 
one ; and placed between two earthen dishes, put in 






fAf7 

7. i' 



74 Meat Entries. 



the larder to become partially cold, in order that they 
may be neatly trimmed, and placed in a saiita-pan 
with their own liquor previously freed from grease, 
and boiled down to glaze. Make them hot ; roll them 
in their glaze ; dish tiiem up in a circular row ; garnish 
the centre with dressed spinach; pour the remainder 
of their glaze round the base, and serve. 

Note. — Tendons of Veal may also be served with 
stewed peas, or any other vegetable garnish. 

Curried Tendons of Veal- 
Braze the tendons as directed in the preceding case, 
and use their stock to make some curry sauce ; put the 
tendons in this to simmer for a while, dish them up 
with fried bacon between each tendon, pour the sauce 
over the entree, and serve plain boiled rice in a dish 
separately. 

Fillets of Chicken, Frittered. 

Skin a chicken, cut the fillets from the breast, cut 
the thick end of the legs in two, season them very 
slightly with salt and white pepper, dust them over with 
flour, have some frying batter ready, roll the fillets 
into the batter and fry them in boiling lard. They 
should be a light brown colour. When done, drain 
them on paper, dish them on a folded napkin, fry some 
gelatine in boiling lard for two minutes ; the gelatine 
must be the colour of silver. When fried, garnish the 
fillets with the fried gelatine and serve hot. 



Meat Entries. 75 



Frying Batter. 

To half-a-pound of flour, add one ounce of diBSolred 
butter, a little salt, and the jolk of an egg ; mix these 
together with a wooden spoon, pouring in at intervals 
about a breakfast cupful of tepid water. Let this 
batter be well worked with the spoon until it presents 
a smooth creamy appearance. It must be set aside for 
an hour or so, and, when about to use it, add lightly 
two whites of eggs previously whisked into a firm 
froth. 

Cream of Chicken. 

Skin a chicken, and cut all the meat off the bones, 
and pound it in a mortar ; when well pounded, rub all 
the meat through a fine wire sieve ; then season with 
salt, white pepper, and a very little nutmeg ; then mix 
in some sweet cream with the puree of chicken. It 
should be the thickness of very thick cream. Then 
take a convenient sized mould, rub the inside with 
firesh butter, sHce some truffles, and, with a very small 
tin cutter, cut out any ornament you like from the 
truffle, ornament the sides and bottom of the mould, 
pour the mixture into the mould, tie a buttered paper 
over the top, and place it into a pan of boiling water. 
Place a close cover on the pan. The water should not 
be allowed to boil after the mould has been put into 
the pan, but must be left on the stove to poach for 
about two hours. When wanted, turn it out on its 
dish and pour some white mushroom sauce round it, 
and serve hot. 



Meat Entrhs. 



Cream of Rabbit. 
This is prepared in the Bame way aa cream of 
chicken, and may be eteamed m a casBarole shape, and 
the centre filled with muahroomfl, green peas, or 
asparagus peaa, and mushroom aaace, or bechamel 
sauce, poured round it. 

Quenelles of Chicken. 
Skin the chicken, cut all the meat off the bones, 
poimd it well in a mortar, add the white of an egg; 
pound a little longer, and add two more whites of 
eggs ; pound well after the last white is added, season 
with pepper and salt, and a httle grated nutmeg ; rub 
the mixture throi^h a fine wire sieve, take a dessert 
spoon and dip it in cold water, fill the spoon with the 
mixture, smooth the top with a knife, wet your hand 
with cold water to prevent the quenelle from sticking 
to it ; then drop the quenelle on to your hand and 
place it into a large stew-pan with plenty of boiling 
water, seasoned with salt. When all the mixture has 
been shaped into quenelles and placed into the pan of 
boiling water, the pan must then be placed on the stove 
and allowed to boil slowly for twenty minutes. They 
must then be lifted out carefully with a small fish slice, 
or vegetable spoon, and allowed to drip a little, and 
dished in a circle round the dish, and sauced over with 
good white sauce, and the centre garnished with pre- 
pared cocks'-combs, or with mushrooms, green peas, or 
asparagus peas. 

When cocks'-combs cannot be had fresh from the 



Meat Entries. 77 



birdfi, they may be got in bottles; and they only 
require to be stewed in a little stock till tender. 

Quenelles made frona Cold Roast Fowl. 

Take the yrhite meat of a fowl, scrape free from 
sinews and skin, the same quantity of suet shred very 
fine; put it in a mortar and poimd as smooth as 
possible. Take a little crumb of bread, wet in milk, 
and add it to the meat in the mortar; and also one 
whole egg and the white of another, season with 
pepper and salt, rub it through a fine sieve; take it 
out, and with a dessert spoon shape the quenelles, and 
put each into a stew-pan, with as much broth or water 
as will cover them. Ten minutes is sufficient to cook 
them. Serve with white sauce. 

White, Sauce for above. 

Take chicken bones or veal^ a little ham in small 
pieces, a few mushrooms, two onions, two or three 
cloves, a blade of mace, a little butter, a small sprig of 
thyme, and let all stew an hour and a-half. Mix some 
of the gravy with flour, and add a little cream ; put 
this into the pan and boil a quarter of an hour, stirring 
it well; strain, and season with salt. Good rabbits may 
be substituted for fowls. Young rabbits are preferable 
to old ones. 

Cushions of Chicken. 

Cut up a raw fowl into small joints ; take care not 
to tear the sldn, make a force-meat of the scraps made 
like quenelle meat, mix it with a little herbs, then put 
it into the skin and sew it up with a needle and 



78 Meat Entries. 



thread. Stew them in a little water with Bait; 
make a good white sauce, and pour it over when 
dished. They must be served with vegetables cut 
with a very small cutter. Between each layer put the 
different vegetables, carrots, turnips, peas, or beans, 
and balls of yolks of eggs. 

Petite Chard Rabbit. 

Make a case of paste in a plain mould of flour and 
water, line the mould very smoothly with it, fill it up 
with dry flour, put into the oven to brown; when 
done, leave it in the shape till cold, then turn it out ; 
first take out all the dried flour, egg all the outside 
over, make a few leaves of some of the uncooked paste 
and ornament the shape with them. Take a rabbit or 
two, and cut them into small joints, stew them in good 
gravy with a little onion, two or three cloves, and a 
little soup glaze until the gravy is quite thick ; when 
ready, heat the case in the oven, and turn it all into 
the shape. Dish it on a napkin ; it makes a very good 
entree or lunch dish, and is nice for break&st. 

Dry Curry. 

For veal, mutton, or rabbit, put two ounces of butter 
into a frying-pan with two onions and an apple, both 
minced small, and fried till quite tender ; then add nice 
bits of meat, with a tablespoonful of curry powder, a 
little salt, and two or three spoonfuls of good cream ; 
fry all together for five minutes, stirring all the time ; 
then put all into a small stew-pan with a cupful of 
boiling water, let it stew slowly by the side of the fire 



Meat Entries. 79 



until the meat is quite tender. Before it is dished, a 
little Chutney sauce may be added, and a little lemon- 
juice ; put a wall of boiled rice round the dish, with the 
curry in the centre, and serve very hot. 

Chicken or Partridge, a la St Clair. 

Cut the birds in pieces, and put them in a stew-pan 
with as much stock as will nearly cover them. When 
tender, add a glassful of port wine, a dessertnspoonful 
of ketchup, a small onion chopped very fine, a teaspoon- 
fed of anchovy paste, pepper and salt to taste, and a 
teacupfal of cream ; serve very hot. 

Creme de Volaille. 

Pound the white meat of a fowl into a pulp ; pass 
it through a sieve ; put it back into the mortar, and 
work into it the yolks of three or four eggs, and a gill 
of cream ; season with white pepper and salt and grated 
nutmeg, and, if liked, a Kttle shallot. When the mixture 
is perfectly smooth and well mixed, butter a plain 
mould; arrange thin shoes of truffles, cut in shapes, at 
the bottom; then put in the mixture, which should 
only half fill the mould ; tie a piece of paper on the 
top; place the mould in a saucepan with boiling water, 
and steam it for an hour and a half; serve with truffle 
or tomato sauce. 

Roman Pie. 

Boil a rabbit, or any white meat, such as chicken or 
veal ; cut aU the meat off in thin sHces ; boil three 
ounces maccaroni in water till tender : cut up, in small 
pieces, three ounces parmasan cheese, the least bit of 



8p Meat Entrhs. 



Rliallot, minced veiy fine, salt, pepper, and a quarter 
piot of cream; mix all well together; butter a plain 
mould, and sprinkle with vermioelli ; make a quarter 
pound of short paste ; line the mould with thiB, and 
thou fill with the mixture ; put on the paste top ; press 
the outer edge on it ; bake one hour, turn it oat, and 
pour clear brown saace over and round it. 

Game Quenelle. 
Take the remains of cold grouse, or game of any 
sort ; poimd it in a mortar till very fine ; add a little 
good stock, a few bread-crumbs, a little Harvey sauce, 
pepper and salt; beat up two eggs and add to the 
iriixture; butter a monld; pour in the mixture; tie a 
piece of paper over the top of the mould; set it in a 
pan with boiling water to steam for half an hour; serve 
with brown gravy round it. 

Dutch Frleandean. 

Take some force meat, beat well in a mortar, and 
Viind it with two eggs. Take a plain mould and line it 
with slices of fat baoon, fill up the mould witli the 
force meat, press it down, steam it for etn horn: and a 
half; when turned out, glaze it all over; serve tnth 
brown sauce. 

Force Ueat 

Mince fine half a pound of veal or fowl, previously 
cooked, and four ounces of ham ; add one teacupful of 
grated bread, and moisten altogether with an egg. 
Season with a little nutmeg, lemon, and white pepper. 



Meat Entries. 8i 



Bissoles. 

Mince very jBne some cold fowl, chicken, or veal, a 
little suet, and lean ham ; season with pepper and salt, 
the grating of half a lemon, and moisten a little stock. 
Make some paste of four ounces of flour, two ounces of 
lard, and a little salt; moisten with one egg, and a 
little water ; roll it out twice. Cut with a round tin 
cutter five inches wide; egg them round the edge with 
a brush. Put a little of the mince in the centre of the 
paste, turn over the paste, bring the edges together, 
press it down, brush them with egg, and roll in bread 
crumbs. Fry them in boihng lard; dish on a napkin. 

Curried Chicken. 

Cut up a chicken in joints^ and put them into a 
stew-pan, with a piece of butter, a little salt, and 
minced onion ; put a close cover on the pan, and set it 
over a fire to stew very slowly. When it has stewed 
about twenty minutes turn the pieces of chicken in 
the pan ; put the lid on again. See that no steam 
escapes. Chop up the backbone, neck, feet, and 
gizzard; put them in a pan; cover them with cold 
water; boil them for stock. When the stock has 
boiled down to half its original quantity, strain and 
skim it. Put a small dessert-spoonful of curry powder, 
half that quantity of curry paste, and a dessert-spoonful 
of fine flour, in a basin ; mix in some of the stock from the 
bones into a smooth thick paste, and pour over the pieces 
of chicken. Let all stew together for ten or flfteen 
minutes. When the chicken is thoroughly cooked, and 
the sauce a proper thickness, the latter should resemble 



82 Meat Entr^s, 



thick cream. When you are about to dish the entree, 
take a breakfast cup, wet the mside -with cold 
water ; fill it with plain boiled rice ; press this in the 
cup ; then torn it out on the middle of the dish. Dish 
the curry round the rice, or put a wall of rice round 
the dish, and the curry in the centre. Serve very hot. 

Fricassee of Chicken. 
Skin and jomt a chicken ; pat it into a stew-pan, 
with a pint of stock made of the neck, backbone, 
gizzard, and feet of Uie chicken. Season with white 
pepper Srud salt ; add a blade of mace, sprig of thyme, 
and a little parsley. Let all boil slowly for twenty 
minutes ; then strain it ; take out the bits of chicken, 
skim, and add two table-spoonfuls of flour, with a little 
of the stock; put it into the stew-pan, and boil it. 
Add the joints of chicken, with a few button mush- 
rooms ; beat up the yolk of an egg, and mix it with a 
teacupful of thick, sweet cream. Pour it into the pan 
among the pieces of chicken, and shake till nearly 
boiling. Add salt to taste ; arrange the joints in a 
pile on the dish ; pour the sauce over them ; garnish 
with cocks'-combs and truffles, cut in stars or diamonds. 
Tiie whole should be served very hot. 

Fillets of Fowl, with Asparagus Peas. 
Trim the fillets of fowls, and finish them as in the 
P'-^^ceding case ; roll them in white mushroom sauce ; 
dish -'lieni up with pieces of red tongue ; fill the centre 
with aatjaraguB peas ; pour some of the sauce round it. 
Serve ho1^j_ 



Meat Entrees. 83 



Italian Pigeon Stew. 

Take three or four pigeons, skin and clean them, cut 
out the fillets from the breasts ; cut off the legs and 
lay them aside with the fillets ; then cut up the back 
bones^ with the necks and gizzards ; put them into a 
pan with a pound of raw, lean beef; add a little pepper 
and salt, cover well with cold water, and boil for sauce. 
When the substance is abstracted from the bones, 
strain the sauce into a small stew-pan ; put the legs 
and fillets of the pigeons into the pan with the sauce, 
stew them tmtil tender ; cut some macaroni in pieces, 
boil it in plenty of water, drain it on a sieve ; grate 
some parmesan cheese, and strew a little on the bottom 
of the entr&e dish ; then a layer of macaroni, then of 
cheese, then of macaroni, and a little of the sauce. 
Put the pieces of pigeon on the top. The sauce should 
be reduced to half glaze, and poured over the entree. 
Have two eggs hard boiled and skinned; take out the 
yolks without breaking them, cut each in two, and 
place a piece in each comer of the dish ; cut the whites 
in small stars or diamonds, and ornament the dish with 
them, and serve up very hot. 

Salmis of Grouse. 

Take the remains of cold roast grouse, trim the 
fillets and legs; make some salmis sauce of the bones, 
rather thick; put the pieces of grouse into the sauce, 
season with salt and a little cayenne pepper, and a 
small glass of port wine. Mushrooms or truffles may 
be added, and the whole served very hot. 



84 Meat Entrees. 



Salmis of all kinds of game are prepared alike, the 
trimmings being used for making the sauce. 

Grouse Cutlets, Glengarry. 

Young birds only are fit for this. They must be 
drawn, the legs cut off, the drumsticks tucked inside, 
singed and split, and cut in halves. They must then 
be seasoned with pepper and salt, and* fried in a sauta- 
pan, with a piece of butter, until browned on both 
sides. Shake in a little flour, add a piece of glaze and 
a little Chutney sauce; simmer over the fire for ten 
minutes, and serve very hot. 

Note. — All kinds of young game form a most 
delicious dish when cooked in this way. 

Bonnes-Bouches. 

Take about half a pound of any kind of game, say 
the flesh of a grouse, partridge, woodcock, or snipes ; 
cut this up in small pieces, and fry it with an ounce of 
butter, a little ham, chopped truffle, mushrooms, parsley, 
and shallot ; season with nutmeg, pepper and salt ; 
and when done, pound thoroughly in the mortar, 
together with a spoonful of sauce made from the bones 
of the birds ; rub it through a wire sieve, and place the 
game pm:ee in a small stew-pan; add the yolks of 
three eggs, and four whites, whisked into a substantial 
froth; mix Hghtly, and with this preparation fill a 
dozen or more paper cases ; egg over the tops with a 
paste-brush, dipped in beaten white of egg ; put them 
in a moderately heated oven to bake for about twelve 
minutes; and as soon as done, dish up the Bonnes- 



Meat Entrees, 85 



Bouches on a napkin ; garnish with fried parslej, and 
serve immediately. 

Yol-au-vent, a la Financiere. 

Have a pound of pnff paste ready, roll it out to the 
thickness of two and a-half inches, and with an oval 
cutter or round lid placed on the top of the paste, with 
a sharp pointed knife cut all round the edge of the Kd ; 
when the vol-au-vent is cut out, egg it over, without 
touching the sides, and with a knife, the point held 
slanting inwardly towards the centre, make a circular 
incision within an inch of the edge, and with the point 
of a knife press the inner dish away from the incision to 
prevent them from closing up again. Make a lid with 
paste to fit into the well of the vol-au-vent, brush the 
top with beaten egg, place the vol-au-vent and its lid 
on a baking sheet, put it in the oven, not too hot, to 
bake for half-an-hour or longer, according to the size. 
When the vol-au-vent has risen about two inches, place 
the hoop of an old sieve round it, and a piece of paper 
over it, and allow it to remain in the oven until done ; 
it then must be taken out, and the greasy centre care- 
fully taken out without damaging the case. 

Financiere Sauce. 

Put a pint of good stock into a stew-pan, with an 

ounce and a half of thickening. Stir over the fire 

imtil it boils, and then add a glass of Madeira or sherry, 

a glass of mushroom catsup, and a small pinch of 

cayenne. Allow this to remain gently boiling by the 

side of the fire to clarify, for about a quarter of an 

a 



86 Meat Entries. 



hour ; remove the scum ; boil it down for five minutes 
longer, and then add a piece of glaze ; and when this 
is dissolved, strain the sauce into a small stew-pan. 
Parboil tw6 veal sweetbreads, three or four cocks'- 
combs ; cut them and add them to the sauce, along with 
a few truffles and mushrooms. Let all be thoroughly 
cooked in the sauce, and seasoned with pepper and 
salt. When about to send to table, make the case hot ; 
place it on its dish, with a folded napkin under it. Fill 
the well of the vol-au-mnt with the financiere sauce. 
Place the paste lid on the vol-au-^ent, and send to table 
very hot. 

Vol-au-vents may be filled with oysters prepared 
as for oyster patties. This is called vol-au-vent of 
oysters. 

Calf s Brains in Cases, Au Gratin. 

Put the brains in cold water, with a little salt to 
draw the blood from them ; parboil them in water for 
eight minutes; take them from the water and cut 
them in small pieces; they must then be added to 
some well-seasoned bechamel sauce, with a little lean 
ham or tongue, truffle, and mushrooms, and rather 
laighly seasoned with pepper and salt. Beat up an 
egg and add to the mixture, and with this preparation 
fill some paper cases ; strew fried bread-crumbs upon 
the tops, place them on a baking sheet, put them in 
the oven for ten minutes. 

Dish up the cases on a folded napkin; garnish with 
fried parsley, and serve hot. 



Meat Entries. 87 



Calf Feet, Fried. 
When the feet have been boiled and are cold, cut 
them in pieces the size of a small cutlet; dip each piece 
in batter, fiy them in hot fat, and, when they become 
crisp, let them be drained on a cloth ; dished up on a 
napkin, with or without fried parsley, and some tomato, 
piquante, or ravigotte sauce, serred separately. 

Indian Pilau. 
Wash a pound of rice ; parboil it ; then place the 
rice in a stew-pan, with a fowl cut up into joints. 
Moisten with a quatt of stock or water. While the 
fowl is stewing, cut four onions in .slices, fiy them in 
butter to a light colom:, and keep them warm on 
a plate. Fry also a dozen slices of bacon. When 
the fowl is done, pile up the rice in the middle of the 
dish, then the joints of fowl. Next strew the fried 
onions over the top. Rub some tomatoes, with butter; 
bake them in the oven for five minutes ; cut them in 
quarters. Garnish the dish with the tomatoes, rolls of 
fried bacon, and hard-boiled eggs, and serve hot. 

Croquets of Macaroni 
Make a thick salmis sauce, then add three yolks of 
eggs, nutmeg, pepper, a little chopped shallot, a piach 
of sugar, and the juice of half a lemon. Stir this over 
the fire to set the eggs in the sauce ; then add a hand* 
ful of boiled marcaroni, two ounces of roast game, one 
ounce of lean ham, truffles, and mushrooms. Mix 
these with the sauce, and when cold and firm, divide 
the preparation into equal small portions. Mould these 



88 Meat Entries, 



in the form of egga Egg, bread-crumb, and fry them 
in hot lard. Dish up with Med parslej* 

Russian Kromeskys. 

Parboil half a pound of fat bacon for twenty 
minutes, and when quite cold, cut it into very thin 
shavings, an inch and a half square, and use these to 
envelop as many ordinary sized corknahaped croquets 
as may be required for the occasion; set them on 
a dish in a cool place until it is time to serve them. 
The kromeskys are then to be separately dipped in 
batter, and fried in clean hot lard; and when done 
crisp, are to be drained on a wire sieve covered with 
paper, dished up with fried parsley, and served 
immediately. 

Kromeskys are made with aU kinds of croquet 
preparations, whether of meat, fish, or shell-fish. 

Ringlets. 

Mince a small bit of cooked veal, rabbit, or fowl, 
and a little ham, season with pepper and salt, a little 
nutmeg, a table-spoonful of bread crumbs, moisten with 
a little good stock and an egg; take six small tin shapes, 
butter them well inside ; take a few pickled French 
beans, cut them in small strips, cut also some slices of 
lean ham, or tongue, the same size, and all one length ; 
stick round the tin or cup one strip of beans, and 
one of ham or tongue, alternately, at a small distance 
from each other. Fill them with the mince, cover 
them with a piece of clean paper, and set them in a 
stew-pan with boiling water two inches deep. Let it 



Meat Entrees. 89 



boil slowly, take care that the water dose not boil into 
the cnps, cover them close. They will require half an 
hour to steam, have the dish you are to serve them on 
very hot. Turn them upside down and let them stand 
a little, draw off the shapes and pour white bechamel 
sauce roimd the ringlets. 

Rissoles, 

Mince very fine some cold fowl, chicken, or veal ; a 

little suet and lean ham, season with the grating of 

half a lemon, pepper and salt; and moisten with a 

little stock. Make a paste of the following : — Four 

ounces of flour, two ounces of lard, a Httle salt, and 

moisten with one egg, and a little water to make it a 

proper stiffiiess. Boll it out twice, cut it with a round 

tin cutter five inches wide ; egg them round the edge 

with a brush. Put a little of the mince in the centre of the 

paste, turn over the paste and bring the edges together. 

Press it down to make it stick, then brush them with 

egg, and strew over them some vermicelli, boiled and 

dried. Have the frying-pan with plenty of boiling lard j 

fry them to a nice light brown colour. Lay them on a 

sieve before the fire to drain ; keep them hot, and when 

wanted, dish them upon a napkin, and garnish with 

parsley. 

Croquets. 

Prepare half a pound of rice, boil in milk instead of 
water, when it is very soft and thick let it stand till 
cold. Divide it in six portions. Roll each portion 
between your hands, and form it like a pear. Dust 
them all over with fine bread crumbs. Brush them 



Meal Entr^s. 



over with beaten egg. Have plenty of boiling lard in 
a pan; put them in and brown them a veiy light 
bf own, then place them on a sieve before the fire and 
cover with a piece of paper to keep them hot. Have 
ready a mince of veal or fowl, a small bit of ham, and 
suet pounded. Season with nutmeg, pepper and salt, 
a little grated lemon, and a table-spoooful of bread- 
crumbs. Take a small stew-pan and melt a bit of 
butter. Put in the mince, stir, and beat it with a 
wooden spoon for ten minutea Add a httle lemon 
pickle ; when wanted, cut oat with a penknife a small 
bit of the thick ends of the croquets and take all the 
rice out of their insides. The mince being hot, fill 
them by the end that was cut out. Brush the inside 
with egg, and stick on the bit cut out. Dish them 
upon a napkin, and garnish with fried parsley. 




POULTRY. 



To Roast a Turkey. 

Have a young fat turkey ; pick, singe, and rub it 
well with a dry cloth. Cut off the head by the 
shoulders, leaving the front skin of the neck long. 
Cut off the points of the toes, and put the legs in the 
fire for a minute, and take the upper skin off them, then 
draw the fowl, taking care not to break the gall or the 
gut. If properly done it will not require to be washed. 
Put a little pepper and salt into the inside, and put 
the vent over the rump. Have a stuffing ready and 
put it in where the crop was taken out, sew it up, and 
put a large skewer through the wing, the under side of 
the thigh and the body, to the thigh and wing of the 
other side. Press down the legs and put another 
skewer through them, down the side of the vent. Have 
a piece of tape ; put it firmly round the turkey, and 
fasten it on the point of each of the skewers to keep the 
skin of the bird from giving way. Fix a piece of paper 
over the breast of the turkey, roast it for an hour and a 
half. Baste it well while it is roasting; when about 
done, drudge it with flour, baste it with butter; dish 
and garnish with sausages, pour gravy round it, and 
serve bread sauce in a sauce tureen. 



92 Poultry. 

Plain StulBng. 
Mix fonr ounces of minced beef Bnet with a cupful 
of bread-crumbe, a little minced ham, pareley, pepper 
and salt, the grating of a lemon ^in, and bind with 
one egg. This stufBng is used for fowla and veal. 

Chestnut StufBng for Brazed Turkey. 
Mince four ounces of beef suet. Mix it with half a 
pound of bread-crumbs, pepper and salt, and the 
squeeze of a lemon. Boil about a dozen chestnuts in 
water until tender ; free them from their husks, and 
pound them in a mortar. Add them to the suet and 
bread crumbs, beat up two eggs, and mix all well 
together, to be used for stui&ng turkeys. 

Boiled Turkey. 

Draw and trues the fowl with the legs drawn in 
under the skin ; and fasten them with tape round the 
joints, and tie it round the rump to prevent the legs 
from starting. Stuff the breast and sew it up. Put it 
in a pot that will just hold it, and cover it with cold 
water; add carrot, onion, celery, parsley, and salt, 
boil gently until done tender. Dish, pour good white 
sauce over it. It must be served with boiled ham or 
tongue. 

Brazed Turkey. 

Truss the turkey as for boiling; stuff it with chest- 
nut stuffing ; put it in a brazing-pan with two carrots, 
one turnip, three onions, one stalk of celery, a little 
parsley, four cloves, a blade of mace, and a few pepper- 
corns ; moisten with sufficient stock or water to cover 



Poultry. 93 

it, and set it to simmer very gently over a slow fire, or 
in the oven, for about two hours, taking care to baste 
it frequently with its own liquor. When done, drain 
it and place it in a baking dish ; add the stock, boil it 
down, and free it from grease ; season with salt, and 
set in the oven to be glazed by basting it often with 
its own essence ; and as soon as it presents a bright 
glossy aspect, dish it up; thicken the liquor with a 
little flour, boil it, and pour it over the turkey. 

Boiled Turkey, a la Yorkshire. 

Cut the legs off a turkey; scald, trim, and set 
them aside; bone the turkey without removing the 
wings; nearly fill the inside with veal force-meat; 
thrust a trimmed boiled tongue down the middle of the 
force-meat, close the pouch of the turkey by sewing it 
up securely, and truss the turkey for boiling, inserting 
the feet in their natural position ; give it as nearly as 
possible its original form ; the turkey, thus far prepared, 
must be tied up in a cloth and boiled very gently in 
order not to burst it ; it will take an hour and a half 
to boil, more or less, according to the size and age of 
the bird. When the turkey is done, dish it, pour 
bechamel or any kind of white sauce over it. 

When carving a turkey, a la Yorhshirey the slices 
must be cut from across the breast, so as to give to 
each guest a slice composed of equal parts of tongue, 
turkey, force-meat, adhering together. Turkeys dressed 
in this fashion, and sauced over with cream bechamel 
sauce, decorated with truffles and tongue, and garnished 
with aspic jelly, form an elegant dish for ball suppers. 



94 Poultry. 

To Boil Fowls. 
Singe and draw the fowie; wipe them; stuff the 
breasts with plain atufSng ; put them into a pan that 
will just bold them ; cover them with cold water ; add 
a little salt and a cupful of new milk ; set the pan on 
the stove or slow fire ; skim the water when it boils. 
If young fowls, three-quarters of an hour, if old, two 
hours' boiling will be required. Have a boiled tongue, 
skin and glaze it ; dish the fowls with the tongue in 
the centre; poor bechamel or any kind of white aance 
over them, and serve very hot. 

To Roast a Fowl. 
Have a young tender fowl ; clean and singe the fowl, 
and cut off the toes ; draw and truss it ; stuff the breast 
with plain stuffing ; put a little pepper in the inside ; fix 
a piece of paper on the breast of the fowl ; put it before 
a clear fire to roast for three-quarters of an hour ; 
baste it all the time with dripping, and before you dish 
it, shake a little flour over it. A spoonful of butter 
may be melted to froth it; dish, and pour a little 
gravy round it ; serve with fried ham, or tongue, and 
bread sauce iu a sauce tureen. 

To Roast Chickens. 
Pick, sing© and draw the chickens. Cut off the 
points of the toes ; put a little stuffing in the breasts, 
sew them up, skewer them as for roast turkey, put 
them before a clear fire, and baste them well with 
butter while roasting. They will require twenty 
minutes. Dish them, and pour a little rich gravy 



Poultry. 95 

round them, serve up with bread sauce in a tureen. 
Turkey pullets are done in the same way. 

Chickens and Tongue, a la Macedolne. 

Boil two spring chickens; and when done, place 
them in a dish with a boiled tongue, trimmed and 
glazed in the centre. Garnish with cauMower 
or broccoli. Sauce the chickens and vegetables with 
white sauce, and serve. 

Note. — Chickens, or fowls, served with tongue, as 
above, may also be garnished with macedoine, jardi- 
niere, or any other dressed vegetables. 

Boiled Capon. 

Truss a capon and tie it up in a buttered cloth. 

Put it on to boil with carrot, onion, and a small stalk 

of celery. Add stock enough to cover it, or it may be 

boiled in water, with a little salt. And when done, 

dish it up with cauliflower or broccoli. Pour white 

mushroom, bechamel, or any other white sauce over it 

and serve. 

Capon, Brazed. 

Truss, lard, and braze a capon as directed for 
brazing a turkey; and when glazed and dished up, 
sauce it over with the liquor it has been brazed in. 
The liquor must be freed from grease, and thickened 
with a little flour, and a few mushrooms, boiled and 
poured over the capon. 

Note. — Capons are also roasted the same way as 
fowls with plain brown gravy poured over them ; and 
bread sauce served in a sauce tureen. 



96 Poultry. 

To Roast a Goose. 

Singe and draw a goose, leaving the ekin long 
enough to turn over the back ; take the upper skins off 
the feet, turn them round upon the back, and cnt off 
the wings at the first joint. Mince two onions, with 
four blades of sage, some bread-crumbs, pepper, and 
salt; mix them all together and put the stuffing into the 
goose. Put the Tent over the rump to keep the stuffing 
from dropping oat ; pass the skewer through the wings 
and hodj, and fix a piece of paper over the breast. It 
■will require one hour and a-half before a clear fire. Ten 
minutes before you dish it, take off the paper to let the 
goose brown. When dished, pour a httle good browu 
gravy round it ; serve with apple sauce in a tureen. 

Note. — A duck is dressed in the same manner, only 
one hour's roasting will suffice. 

Brazed Goose, a la Jardiniere. 
Truss a goose and place it in a brazing pan, with 
two carrots, one small turnip, four onions, one head 
of celery, a little parsley, pepper and salt, with just 
enough stock or water to cover the goose. A blade of 
mace, six doves, and a few pepper-corns must be added, 
and set to braze slowly for two hours, remembering that 
the lid of the pan should be covered with live embers, 
and that the goose must be frequently basted with its 
own liquor. When the goose is done, drain it and dish 
it up. Garnish it with spring vegetables; sauce it over 
with brown sauce, in which there has been incorporated 
the stock from the goose, previously freed from grease, 
and boiled down to half glaze. 



Poultry. 97 

N.B. — Everything that is brazed must be done 
thoroughly, and must be seasoned with spices, sweet 
herbs, and vegetables. Brazing is, in truth, a more 
scientific way of stewing. 

Brazed Swan. 

Pick, singe, and draw a young, well-fed swan. Truss 
it as you would a goose. Prepare the following stuff- 
ing, namely: — Chop and parboil, for a few minutes only, 
six large onions ; drain them ojy a sieve, and put them 
in a stew-pan, with four ounces of butter, the crumbs 
of two French rolls previously soaked in milk, chopped 
parsley, nutmeg, pepper and salt, two eggs, and 
twenty chestnuts boiled, skinned, and pounded in 
a mortar. Mix all together, and use it to fill the inside 
of the swan ; place it in a brazing-pan, with ca;:rot, 
turnip, onions, celery, mace, cloves, and pepper-corns. 
Cover it with stock or water ; braze it for an hour and 
a half, or until it is done. Strain its liquor; remove 
the grease ; and having boiled the liquor down to half 
glaze, add it to some tomato sauce or pulp, and pour 
it over the swan when dished up. 

Note. — Swans may be stuffed with bread crumbs, 
sage, and onions, and roasted before a brisk fire for 
about an hour and a half, and when done, dished up 
with good brown gravy, and served with apple sauce 
separately. 

Stewed Duck, with Green Peas. 

Truss a duck, and braze it in the usual way ; and 
while this is going on shred a lettuce fine, and put it 



98 Poultry. 

in a Btew-pan with a quart of peas, a few green onions, 
and parsley, an ounce of butter, pepper and salt, and 
a gill of water. Put the lid on the stew-pan, and set 
the peas to stew very gently over a slow fire for about 
twenty-five minutes, tossing them up occasionally to 
admit of their being done equally. When the peas are 
become soft and are done, Bhoold there happen to be 
too much moisture, boil down on the fire until reduced ; 
add a little white sugar and a good pat of butter ; mix 
these in with the peas, and use to garnish the duck. 
When dished tip, sauce over all with the stock from the 
duck, previously boiled down to half glaze. 

Pigeons Tor a Remove. 
Take t^ree or four pigeons; truss them ae you 
would chickens for boiling. Season the inside with 
pepper and salt, herbs and pickles. Bub a little butter 
on their breasts ; drudge them with flour ; make thin 
paste and roll each in it separately. Keep them a nice 
shape, and tie each in a cloth ; boil very slowly for an 
hour and a half Bemove the cloths from them ; place 
them on a dish ; garnish with hard-boiled eggs. Four 
rich brown gravy over themj and serve very hot. 

Turkey Stew. 
Take the remains of a roast turkey ; cut it up in 
nice sized pieces ; boil the bones for stock, skim it, and 
put it into a stew-pan with the pieces of turkey. 
Season slightly with pepper and salt ; add thirty 
oysters, a few chillies, and button oniona, one glass of 
white wine. Stew for an hour, and serve hot. 




BEEFS. 



Roast Sirloin of Beef. 

A piece of beef, in order to have any chance of 
perfection when cooked, should not weigh less than 
fourteen or sixteen pounds. It will take about two 
hours and a half, or three hours, before a clear fire to 
roast. It must be kept at a distance of eighteen 
inches from the grate; baste frequently with nice fresh 
dripping, placed in the dripping pan ; when the beef is 
roasted, remove it from the spit, and place it upon its 
dish ; pour some good gravy round it; serve separately 
some scraped horse-radish, or some horse-radish sauce, 
in a separate dish, and a piece of Yorkshire pudding in 
a vegetable dish. 

Note. — The dripping-pan should be kept very 
clean; it should be washed and dried thoroughly every 
time it is used. When a large joint has been roasted, 
and the dripping removed from the pan, pour a little 
water into the dripping-pan; add a little salt, and 
strain it ; allow it to cool, free it from fat, and heat it 
when required, as gravy for the roast. 

Roast Ribs of Beef. 

A piece of rib beef, intended for roasting, should 
consist of not less than three or four ribs; the chine- 



TOO Beefs. 

bone, and also the upper part of the rib bones, should 
be removed by sawing them ofif. The flat ends should 
be fastened neatly under with wooden skewers, and 
equally balanced on the spit; the ribs of beef shoold 
,then be roasted in much the same manner as directed 
for ehloin of beef; browned potatoes are generally 
served with roaat beef, and also Yorkshire pudding*. 

How to make Yorkshire Pudding. 
Take four table-epoonfuls of flour, with a little 
pepper and salt, and mix it with a little cold milk. 
Have two egga well beaten ; mix them with the flour ; 
then mix in half a pint of milk ; stir it all well. Have 
a square tin pan greased; pour in the pudding, and set 
it in the oven for a few minutes ; then place it under 
beef that is roasting; send it to table cut in square 
pieces, and dished on a napkin. 

Boiled Round of Beef. 
Procure a round of beef, well furnished with rich 
delicate-looking fat. Take out the kernels, and salt the 
round in the usual manner; rub in and all over 
it four pounds of salt, with half an ounce of 
saltpetre, turning it over in the brine, and rubbing 
it well with the salt every morning for about ten 
days. By this time the round of beef will be ready 
for boiling. Next, after removing the round from 
the brine, fold it into shape by pulling the flap-piece 
close to the buttock. Fasten it well with skewers in 
order to maintain it in proper shape while boiling. 
Bind it neatly, and tightly, all round with a piece of 



Beefs. loi 

tape, put it on in a large pot with cold water. It must 
never be allowed to boil fast, as this always spoils salt 
meat. When the round has boiled about five hours, 
take it up, and trim it. Stick in four silver skewers 
to keep it in shape, cut off the first slice. Pour round 
it some of its liquor, coloured with a little browning, 
and garnish with vegetables. 

Boiled Alch-Bone of Beef. 

Salt the aich-bone, and boil it with care as directed 
for Eound, and garnish it in the same manner. All other 
joints of salt beef are to be treated similarly. 

Spiced Beef. 

For fourteen pounds of beef, mix one pound of 
common salt, with half a pound of coarse brown sugar, 
a quarter poimd of allspice, and half an ounce of salt- 
petre. Rub the beef well with this mixture. Turn it 
in the liquor every day for a fortnight. When about 
to use the meat, wash in cold water, and dry it with a 
clean cloth. Place it in a baking dish with beef suet 
imder and over it, and bake in a moderate oven for 
about four hours, basting it frequently. When done, 
dish it with beef gravy under it, and serve hot. 

. Pressed Beef. 

Pressed beef may be prepared with either briskets 

or flank of beef. The beef must first undergo curing 

in manner following, namely, to six pounds of common 

salt add one ounce saltpetre, half-a-pound of moist 

sugar, some bruised bay leaves, thyme, basil, marjoram, 

u 



102 Beefs. 

half-an-ounce of clovea, same ot mace and of pepper- 
corns, all mixed together and pounded in a mortar. 
Rub it well into the piece of beef intended to be cured. 
The beef must remain in the brine for about twelve 
daya, when it will be ready for use. 

When about to cook the beef, let it be rolled into 
and fastened in a cloth, wbtch must also be sewed at 
opening, and otherwise corded with twine, in the form 
of a lobster. Put it in a pot with cold water to boil 
very gently for about four or five hours, according to 
weight and thickness. When the beef is done, let it 
be put in press between two dishes with heavy weights 
on the top. When the beef is perfectly cold, take it 
out of the cloth, trim and glaze it over, garnish with 
aspic jelly or merely with picked parsley, and serve 
either for break&st, luncheon, dinner, or supper. 

Beef Steaks. 

Have the steak cut from the houghbone or ribs, have 
a clear fire and clean gridiron, let the latter become 
hot, then rub it with a little suet, lay on the steak, 
and with a pair of coUop-tongs keep turning it con- 
stantly. Have the dish made very hot when the steaks 
are half done, sprinkle them over with salt, take them 
ofF and put them into a dish before the fire, and cover 
them with a hot cover. In the course of five minutes 
put them back upon the gi-idiron, turning them for 
other five minutes. When done, dish the steak with 
the gravy, and serve with horse-radish. 



Beefs. 103 

Minced Collops. 

Take whatever quantity of lean beef you want, add 
a little suet, and mince it very fine ; take a piece of 
butter and brown it with a few onions chopped up, then 
put in the minced meat, and keep beating it until it 
becomes brown. Have some gravy ready, add it to 
the minced collops, and let it boil ; then draw it aside, 
and allow it to stew for half-an-hour ; add pepper and 
salt to taste, and a little ketchup. Minced collops 
should be very thick, and garnished round with toasted 
bread cut in dice with poached eggs on the top. 

Ox Tongue. 

The tongue should be boiled very slowly for about 
two hours and a-half, and, when done, plunged in cold 
water, so as the furred coating of skin may be removed. 
It should then be placed, with the root end up, against 
a piece of board set close to the wall by the dresser, 
until set quite cold. The tongue must then be trimmed 
and glazed, and a piece of paper frill stuck on the root. 

How to Make Glaze. 

Take a whole hough of beef, an ox-foot, and an old 
fowl or a piece of veal, a little salt and a few pepper- 
corns, and put them into a pot ; cover with cold water, 
boil slowly for ten or twelve hours ; then strain it, and, 
when cold, skim very clean. Put the stock into a 
sauce-pan, set it upon the fire, and let it boil slowly 
without a cover till it is reduced to a small quantity. 
When it is done sufficiently, dip a spoon in it, touch it 
with your thumb and finger, and if it cause them to 



I04 Beefs. 

etick together, it ia ready. Put it into jelly-pots. When 
you are to uae it, set the jelly-pot in hot water till it 
becomes liquid. 

How to Cook Tripe. 

Have the tripe well cleaned and soaked in cold 
water for some time ; cut into pieces, and put into a 
pot with a marrow bone ; cover with cold water, and 
let it boil slowly for six hours. Skin some whole 
onions, and add to the tripe. Mix some flour with new 
milk, a little salt, and white ground pepper; add these, 
and let all stew together for half an hour longer ; skim 
off the fat. A'VTien dished, place the onions on the top 
of the tripe. 

Fried Tripe. 

For this purpose the tripe should be previously 
boiled, and, when cold, each piece must be dipped 
separately in some frying batter, and fried crisp in some 
frying fat or lard. When done, dish up with fried 
parsley on a napkin. Serve with tomato sauce in a 
sauce-boat. 




VEAL. 



Roast Fillet of Veal. 

Veal, to be in perfection, should, if possible, be pro- 
cured fresh killed, as it does not improve by being 
kept. Take out the bone from a good fat fillet, and 
with the bat flatten the udder ; make a deep incision 
between the udder and the fillet with a knife, and fill 
it with veal stuffing. Sew it up with small twine. 
Wrap the udder tightly round the fillet, and secure its 
shape with skewers and twine. Spit the fillet in the 
usual manner ; cover it with buttered paper ; roast it 
for about two hours and a half. Just before it is done 
take off the paper, and after shaking some flour over it 
from a drudger, baste the fillet with a little fresh 
butter, and froth it ; then dish it up. Pour round it 
some melted butter, coloured with a little browning, 
and lemon juice ; and serve some boiled bacon with 
greens, separately. 

Loin of Veal, Brazed. 

Trim, stufl^ and truss a loin of veal. Place it on a 
bed of sliced vegetables in a brazing-pan. Cover it 
with a fitting piece of thick white paper, previously 
rubbed over with butter ; moisten with sufficient stock 



io6 Veal. 

or water just to reach the edge of the surface of the 
veal, and aet it to braze in the oven, or very gently 
over a bIow fire, with live embers on the lid of the pan. 
Take due care to baste it frcqnently with its own liquor 
during the time it ia being brazed, in order that the 
meat, by continuously abeorbiag the stock, may be im- 
pregnated with the flavour of the vegetables. When 
the loin of veal has thus stewed, or brazed, for about 
three hours, let it be drained and placed on a baking 
dish ; and after straining and boiling down its own liquor 
to the consistency of half glaze, add it to the meat, and 
Bet it in the oven, continuously basting it with its 
glaze, until it presents a light, glossy aspect. The 
loin of veal must then be diahed up and garnished 
with cooked tomatoes, onions, and carrots, and sauced 
over with the Uquor of the veal. 

Roast Lota of Veal. 
Take the best end of a loin of veal, weighing about 
eight pounds, with a fair proportion of the skirt on ; 
trim it square, and place some veal stuffing in an 
incision made for that purpose in the flap or skirt. 
Wrap the skirt round the kidney fat, and secure the 
loin tightly with skewers and string. Envelop the loin 
well in greased sheets of clean paper, secured with 
string ; spit it and roast it before a moderate fire for 
about two hours. When done, dish it up, and poiur 
over it either some clear brown gravy, or some melted 
butter, coloured with a spoonful of mushroom cataup, 
and serve separately either ham, or tongue, or some 
bacon, garnished with some sort of vegetable. 



L- 



Veal. 107 

Loin of Veal, a la Creme. 

Prepare and roast a loin of veal, and, about twenty 
minutes before it is done, put a clean dish under it, 
and baste it all over continuously with a pint of sweet 
cream ; this, as the veal continues to turn roimd before 
the fire, will cause it to assume a bright, light brownish 
crust of a very delicate aspect. While removing 
the veal from its spit on to its dish, it must be 
carefully handled so as the crust may not be knocked 
off. Let the brown deposit, which has fallen from the 
veal during the time it has been basted with cream, be 
detached from the dish which has received it ; with 
some white mushroom juice or water, add this to 
some white sauce and a little cream, and pour it roimd 
the veal. 




MUTTON. 



To Roast a Saddle of Mutton, 
Have the saddle neatly cut; take the skin ofl; 
then fix the skin on the mutton with a wooden skewer, 
and hang it before the fire to roast. It will require two 
hours before a clear fire. Fifteen minutes before yon 
dish it, take off the skin, drudge it with flour, baste it 
with a little melted butter, pour brown gravy oyer 
it. Send up red-currant jelly in a sauce tureen. 

To Roast a Gigot of Mutton. 

Have the mutton cut in the form of a bacon ham ; 
cut about three inches off the point of the shank ; spit 
it, and put it to roast before a clear fire for two hours. 
Before you dish it, melt a little butter, dust the roast 
with flour, baste it with butter, and when it froths up, 
dish it and put a rose of paper upon the shank. Pour 
gravy over it, and send up red currant jelly in a sauce . 
tureen. 

Boiled Leg of Mutton. 

Place a trimmed leg of mutton in a pot, add enough 
cold water to cover it, and set it to boil. After 
skimming it well, add a handiol of salt, a faw carrots, 
turnips, and a couple of parsnips ; and when the leg of 



Mutton. 109 



mutton has boiled two hours and a half it will be done. 
It should then be dished up with a cut paper frill on the 
shank bone, garnished with mashed turnips mixed with 
a pat of butter, and a little cream, nutmeg, pepper and 
salt. Mould the mashed turnips in the shape of large 
eggs, with two table spoons, and place them in a 
circular row round the dish, with boiled carrots cut in 
shapes, and a little of the liquor poured over the 
mutton ; and serve caper sauce separately. 

Brazed Leg of Mutton. 

Place the leg of mutton in a brazing pan with 
carrots, onions, turnips, celery, parsley, cloves, mace, 
and a few pepper-corns. Moisten with sufficient stock 
or water to cover the mutton, and set it to simmer very 
gently over a slow jfire, or in the oven, for about three 
hours, taking care to baste it frequently with its own 
liquor. When done, drain and place it in a baking 
dish. Add the stock, and boil it down, and set it in 
the oven to be glazed by basting it often with its own 
essence. And as soon as it presents a bright glossy 
aspect, dish it up, garnish with carrots and turnips. 
Sauce over with the remainder of its glaze added to 
some brown sauce, and serve. 

Stuffed Shoulder of Mutton. 

Saw off the shank from a shoulder of mutton, remove 
the blade-bone with care. Fill the cavity caused by 
the removal of the blade-bone with veal stuffing. 
Sew up the opening (gathering up the sides of the 
meat), with a trussing needle and string. Next let 



no Mutton. 



the shoulder be nicely roasted, or brazed. Pour over 
it Bome piquante sauce and serve hot. 

Mutton Haricot. 

Have two pounds of chops or the lean parts of 

mutton cut into pieces the size of a chop, add a table- 

spoonful of flour, pepper and salt, onions and carrots 

cut into dice ; pour in nearly a pint of cold water, stir it 

and put it on the fire or stove to stew slowly for half- 

an-hour, then add a turnip cut in dice ; let the whole 

be stewed together for an hour ; skim it well. When 

you dish it, put the mutton neatly round the dish, and 

pour the vegetables and sauce into the centre ; serve it 

up very hot. 

Irish Stew. 

Take any thin pieces that have been cut off a loin 
or breast, and cut them in pieces, put them in a stew- 
pan and cover them with cold water, add two 
dozen whole onions, pepper and salt, put on the 
cover, draw the pan to the side of the fire and let 
it boil slowly for half-an-hour ; wash and pare two 
dozen of potatoes, place them in the stew-pan on 
the top of the mutton, and let them stew till quite soft. 
When cooked, dish the potatoes in the centre, and the 
mutton and sauce round them ; serve hot. 

Scotch Haggis. 

Clean the bag, and lay it in water with salt for 
a night. Parboil the pluck for half-an-hour, and when 
cold mince it very fine along with one pound of suet, one 
pound of oatmeal ; add two minced onions, one table- 



Mutton. Ill 

spoonfnl of muBbroom catsup, and the same of Harrej 
sauce, eeasoQ with pepper and salt, put it all into a 
basin, reduce the lic[uor that it baa been boiled in to a 
piat-and-a-half, and mix it with the other ingredients ; 
tnm the bag with the plain side out, and fill with the 
mixture ; sew op tightly, put it into a pot of boiling 
water, and keep pricking it with a sharp skewer for 
five minutes ; let it boil slowly for four or five hours. 

Broiled Kidneys. 
Skin the kidneys, and make a deep incision in each, 
rub them over with fresh butter, put a skewer through 
to keep them open, broil them on a gridiron over a 
slow fire ; beat up to a cream two ounces of fresh 
butter with a dessert-spoonful of vinegar, add a little 
chopped parsley; put a teaspoonful of this mixture 
into each kidney, and shut them like a book. 




PORK. 



Roast Leg of Pork. 
Make a deep inoision just below the kauokle of n 
leg of pork, between the sHn and flesh, and fill this 
with eage and onion stuffing, and sew up the opening 
with twiue; score the pork all over by cutting the skin 
through, in narrow bands, with a sharp knife ; then 
epit the joint, and roast it for about two hours, 
baetjiig it frequently ; and when done, dish it up with 
brown gravy, and serve apple sauce in a sauce-boat. 

Boiled Leg ot Pork. 

Saw off the shank-bone, and put the leg on to boil 
in cold water, with carrots, turnips, and parsnips, 
intended to be served with it ; and also a quart of split 
peaa, previously washed and soaked over a night for 
the piii-poee. Let the peas be tied up loosely in a 
napkin, and put in the pot to boil with the pork, which 
will require two hours' slow boilinjg. When the pork is 
done, take it up on its dish; garnish it round with 
the carrots, turnips, and parsnips cut into neat 
squares; pour some gravy over the pork, and serve 
the peas pudding on a separate dish. 

If the peas for the padding are put on to boil at the 



Pork. T 1 5 

same time as the pork, they will be done in about an 
hour and a half. They are then to be taken out of 
the napkin, rubbed through a wire sieve, mixed with a 
pat of butter, two yolks of eggs, nutmeg, pepper and 
salt, and tied up, as any other pudding, in a napkin 
previously well buttered and floured, and again placed 
in the pot with the pork, to continue boiling until the 
pork is done. 

To Roast a Loin of Pork. 

Notch every joint in the loin ; cut the skin in strips, 
and rub it over with a bit of butter, and some sage- 
leaves rubbed into a powder. Kub this into the pork 
before putting it to the fire. It will require two hour^ 
roasting. Serve with brown gravy and apple sauce 
in a sauce-boat. 

To Roast Sucking Pig. 

Fill the pouch of the sucking pig with stuflSng pre- 
pared as follows : — Chop fine four onions and a dozen 
sage leaves ; fry these with two ounces of butter over 
a slow fire for five minutes; then add half a pound of 
bread-crumbs, two yolks of eggs, pepper and salt, and 
thus the pig being stuffed and the pouch sewn up 
securely, roast it before a brisk fire for about two hours, 
basting it frequently by means of a paste-brush dipped 
in salad oil. When the pig is done dish it, and pour 
gravy round it. Serve with Italian, tomato, or apple 

sauce. 

Spare Ribs of Pork. 

These should be slightly sprinkled with pepper and 
salt the day before they are to be cooked. They must 




PORK. 



Roast Leg of Pork. 

Make a deep incision just below the knuckle of a 
leg of pork, between the skin and flesh, and fill this 
with sage and onion stufling, and sew up the opening 
with twine; score the pork all over by cutting the skin 
through, in narrow bands, with a sharp knife; then 
spit the joint, and roast it for about two hours, 
basting it frequently ; and when done, dish it up with 
brown gravy, and serve apple sauce in a sauce-boat. 

Boiled Leg of Pork. 

Saw off the shank-bone, and put the leg on to boil 
in cold water, with carrots, turnips, and parsnips, 
intended to be served with it ; and also a quart of split 
peas, previously washed and soaked over a night for 
the purpose. Let the peas be tied up loosely in a 
napkin, and put in the pot to boil with the pork, which 
will require two hours' slow boilinjg. When the pork is 
done, take it up on its dish; garnish it round with 
the carrots, turnips, and parsnips cut into neat 
squares; pour some gravy over the pork, and serve 
the peas pudding on a separate dish. 

If the peas for the padding are put on to boil at the 



Pork. T 1 5 

same time as the pork, they will be done in about an 
hour and a half. They are then to be taken out of 
the napkin, rubbed through a wire sieve, mixed with a 
pat of butter, two yolks of eggs, nutmeg, pepper and 
salt, and tied up, as any other pudding, in a napkin 
previously well buttered and floured, and again placed 
in the pot with the pork, to continue boiling until the 
pork is done. 

To Roast a Loin of Pork. 

Notch every joint in the loin ; cut the skin in strips, 
and rub it over with a bit of butter, and some sage- 
leaves rubbed into a powder. Kub this into the pork 
before putting it to the fire. It will require two hours* 
roasting. Serve with brown gravy and apple sauce 
in a sauce-boat. 

To Roast Sucking Pig. 

Fill the pouch of the sucking pig with stuflSng pre- 
pared as follows : — Chop fine four onions and a dozen 
sage leaves ; fry these with two ounces of butter over 
a slow fire for five minutes; then add half a pound of 
bread-crumbs, two yolks of eggs, pepper and salt, and 
thus the pig being stuffed and the pouch sewn up 
securely, roast it before a brisk fire for about two hours, 
basting it frequently by means of a paste-brush dipped 
in salad oil. When the pig is done dish it, and pour 
gravy round it. Serve with Italian, tomato, or apple 

sauce. 

Spare Ribs of Pork. 

These should be slightly sprinkled with pepper and 
salt the day before they are to be cooked. They must 



ii6 PorL 

then be broiled on a gridiron over a clear fire, and 
turned with steak-tongs. 

How to make Brone. 

Take a good-sized pig^s head, and a smoked beef 
tongue ; put the two in a pot together ; boil them till 
tender. They must not be boiled too much. When 
ready, the tongue must be skinned, and the head taken 
up and the meat taken quickly off the bones. The 
meat of the head and the tongue should be roughly and 
quickly minced together, and seasoned rather highly 
with pepper and salt, and a little mixed spice. It must 
then be put into the brone dish or mould, while it is 
still very hot ; then place the lid on the dish, and a 
very heavy weight on the top of it. When the brone 
is perfectly cold and firm take a clean kitchen towel ; 
put it into boiling water ; take it out and ring it hard ; 
wrap it round the brone-dish, and dab the top and 
bottom of the dish with the cloth. Take off the top, 
and turn it on its dish, and garnish with parsley. It 
should be very firm, and resemble Stilton cheese. 

Pork Sausages. 

Take two or three pounds of fresh pork, fat and 
lean together, without skin or gristle ; chop it as fine as 
possible, season with a teaspoonful of ground pepper, 
two of salt, and three of sage shred fine, mix the 
whole well together. In the meantime have the 
sausage skins nicely cleaned, and fill them with the 
mince and fry them. Beef likewise makes good 
sausages. 



To Cure Hams, as in Ireland. 
To each haui pat one pound of coarse brown sugar, 
one and a-half of salt, two ounces of black ground 
pepper, two ounces of allspice, and half an ounce of 
saltpetre; mix all well together and rub the ham well 
with it. Turn and rub them daily with their own 
pickle for six weeks, and hang them up to dry. They 
are much improved by being smoked. 




VENISON. 



Roast Haunch of Venison. 

Saw off the shank bone, remove the sinew ; pare 
away the dark, dry skin from the skirt, and also the 
dried surface of the under part. Then cover the haunch 
with a large sheet of well-greased paper, and over that 
place a covering of flour-and-water paste, about half 
an inch in thickness; envelop the whole with two 
large sheets of greased paper, securely tied on with 
string. Place the venison in a cradle spit, and set it 
down before the fire to roast for about four hours, more 
or less — ^the exact time depending upon the size and 
weight of the haunch. When about to take it up from 
the fire, the paste and paper should be removed ; then 
place the haunch on a very hot dish ; pour hot brown 
gravy round it, cover it quickly with a hot cover, and 
send to table exceedingly hot. Serve red currant jelly 
and French beans separately. 

The following sauce is appropriate for roast venison: 
— To one poimd of currant jelly add a gill of port wine, 
the rind of a lemon, and a small piece of ciunamon ; 
stir over the fire, but do not boil it. Serve in a sauce- 
boat. 



Venison. 119 



Venison Chops. 

The chops should be cut an inch thick, neither beaten 
nor trimmed of their fat; seasoned with pepper and 
salt, and placed in a frying-pan with a piece of butter. 
Keep turning them over every two minutes; twenty 
minutes will suffice to cook them. Dish them on a very 
hot dish, with a small pat of fresh butter under each 
chop. Stew a few mushrooms in a little brown gravy, 
add pepper and salt, and pour roimd the chops. 

Cutlets of Venison. 

Trim the cutlets as you would mutton or lamb 

cutlets ; season them with pepper and salt. Melt a 

little butter on a plate, dip each cutlet in the butter, 

and dust them slightly with flour, then in beaten egg, 

and roll them in bread-crumbs. Fry them in hot lard 

for ten minutes ; take them out of the lard and lay 

them on a flat dish covered with paper. Put them 

•before the fire for a few minutes to free them from 

grease ; dish them up, and pour financiere sauce round 

the cutlets. 

Haricot of Venison, 

Take a neck or shoulder of venison, or both, and 
cut the meat of the shoulder in pieces about two 
inches square, and the neck in thick cutlets. Fry 
these pieces with two ounces of butter in a stew-pan 
over a brisk fire until they are browned ; then pour off 
all grease. Shake in a handful of flour, Stir together. 
Moisten with sufficient stock, or water, to cover the 
meat. Season with pepper and salt ; and stir it over 
the fire until it boils. Remove it to the comer of the 



1 20 Venison. 



stove to allow it to throw up the scum, which remove 
with a spoon. Wash and scrape three carrots, and 
with a vegetable scoop cut out all the pink of the 
carrots in round balls, and boil them in water for half 
an hour. Cut out some balls of turnip in the same 
manner, and boil for fifteen minutes. .Strain the 
vegetables and add them to the stew with a glass of 
port wine, and two ounces of red currant jelly. When 
the meat and vegetables are thoroughly cooked and 
the stew well skimmed, dish it up very hot. The dish 
and cover should also be made hot. 

Heart of Red Deer, Roasted. 

Soak the heart in cold water for several hours, 
wash away the blood and dry it with a clean clothe 
Stuff the heart with veal stuffing. Sew it up, rub it 
over with butter, cover it with flour-and-water paste. 
Wrap it in paper, tied on with string. Spit it, and put 
it before a clear fire to roast for two hours ; baste it 
with fat all the time it is roasting. Remove the paper 
and paste about fifteen minutes before it is done* 
Drudge it with flour, melt some butter on a dish, and 
with a spoon baste the heart well with the butter. 
When it is nicely browned and thoroughly cooked, 
place it on its dish previously well heated. Poiur 
venison sauce over the heart, and serve red currant 
jelly and French beans separately. 

Venison Liver, Fried. 

Take a red deer's liver, wash it in cold water. Cut 
it in long slices about an inch thick. Shape them in 



Venison. I2r 

the form of veal cntlets. Season them "with pepper and 
salt, dust them over with flour. Put a. piece of butter in 
a frying-pan, make it hot, then lay the pieces of liver 
in the pan ; try them a nice brown colour on both Bides, 
they will take ten or fifteen minutes to fry. When done, 
dish them up with a piece of fried ham or bacon between 
each piece of liver; add the gravy in the frying-pan to 
a little venison sauce, and pour it over the liver and 
serve hot. 

Venison Puddings. 
Take three quarters of a pound of venison snet and 
mince it very fine. Add half a pound of oatmeal, pepper 
and salt, and mix well together. Put a little of this 
miztore in a small stew-pan emd stir it over the fire for 
a few minutes to ascertain that it is well seasoned. If 
it is not, add a httle more pepper and salt to the euet 
and oatmeal. Have some sausage skins well cleansed, 
fill them with the mixture ; have a pot of boiling water 
on the fire ; put in the puddings, prick them with a 
skewer to prevent them from bursting. Boil them for 
an hour ; take them out and dish them upon a folded 
napkin, serve hot with oatmeal cakes and cheese. 





PIES. 



Venison Pastry. 
Cut a neck or breast into small steaks, rub them 
over with a seasoning of parsley, shallot, and a sprig 
of thyme minced very fine, add grated nutmeg, pepper 
and salt, roll the pieces of venison separately in the 
herbs, fry them slightly in butter, line the sides and 
edges of a pie-dish with puff-paste, place the pieces of 
venison in the pie-dish, add about half-a-pint of rich 
gravy made from the trimmings of the venison, add 
half a glass of port wine and the juice of half a lemon, 
cover the dish with puff paste, and bake it nearly two 
hours in a moderate oven ; when nearly done, open it a 
little at the top or side and pour in a little more gravy 
into the pie before serving it up. 

Beef-«steak Pie. 

Cut up about two or three pounds of beef-steak into 
coUops, trim away any unnecessary fat and sinew 
without waste, season with pepper and salt, place 
them in layers in a pie-dish, mince a little parsley and 
shallot together, and sprinkle it over each layer ; fill 
the pie and shake a little flour over the meat, moisten 
it with stock or cold water ; a few oysters may. be 



Pies. 



123 



added if liked ; cover with puff paste and bake in a 
moderate oven from an hour to an hour-and-a-half. 

Veal and Ham Pie. 

Cut up a pound and a half of veal into collops twice 
the size of a crown piece, and also a pound of ham, 
chop a few mushrooms, some parsley, and shallot, and 
fry these with an ounce of butter in a small stew-pan ; 
season with pepper and salt, a little Harvey sauce, a 
table-spoonfol of flour, andhalf-a-pint of gravy or water; 
stir this sauce over the fire until it boils, add the juice 
of half a lemon, let it cool a little, and mix with the 
veal and ham ; place hard-boiled yolks of eggs on the 
top, cover with puff paste, bake for an hour-and-a- 
quarter ; pour in a little gravy and sauce. 

Sheep-head Pie. 

Singe and clean a sheep's head and feet, lay them 
in cold water for one night, wash and cover them with 
cold water, boil for three hours and a half; take them 
up and allow them to cool, and reduce the Kquor; 
strain and allow it to cool also ; skim off the fat, cut 
off the meat jfrom the bones of the head and feet, pare 
off the fat and dark skin without waste; lay a few 
pieces of thin-cut beef-steak at the bottom of a pie-dish; 
season with pepper and salt; cut the meat in nice 
square pieces, and pack them in the pie-dish, with a 
few slices of ham and two dozen of raw oysters ; fill the 
dish, shake in a little flour, moisten well with the 
liquor, cover with puff paste, and bake for an hour- 
and-a-half. 



1 24 Pies. 

Pigeon Pie. 

Lay a few pieces of tender beef-Bteak at the bottom 
of a pie-dish; upon this place the halves of four 
pigeons; season with chopped mushrooms, parsley, 
shallot, pepper and salt, moisten well with gravy or 
water, and a table-spoonful of catsup, add the yolks oi 
four hard-boiled eggs, cover with puff paste, bake the 
pie in a moderate oven for an hour-and-a-quarter. 

Grouse Pie. 

Pluck and draw two or three young grouse ; cut off 

the wings and legs. Tuck the drumsticks in through 

a slit made under the thigh ; singe the birds with white 

paper ; split them in halves, season them with pepper 

and salt. Place some pieces of very tender beef-steak 

at the bottom of a pie-dish; add chopped mushrooms, 

parsley, and shallot, and two teaspoonfiils of chutnee 

sauce. Sprinkle a little of this over the pieces of steak. 

Place the halves of grouse in neat order on the top ; 

add a little more seasoning; moisten with sufficient 

gravy made from the necks, legs, and wings of the 

birds. Cover with puff paste, and bake for about an 

hour-and-a-half. 

Lark Pie. 

Cut about one pound of veal into small coUops, with 
half a pound of ham ; fry both together slightly, and 
place them at the bottom of a pie-dish. Then pluck 
and singe two dozen larks, from which the gizzards 
only have been removed. Chop up some parsley, 
shallot, truffle, and mushrooms; put two ounces of 
butter in a frying-pan, and fiy the larks and herbs 



Pies. 125 

together for five minutes, and place them in the pie- 
dish with the steak. Shake in a little flour, moisten 
with gravy or water, cover with puff paste, bake for an 
hour-and-a-quarter, and serve. 

Blackbird Pie. 

These birds are only fit for the table during the 
months of November, December, and January. The 
birds must be stuffed with the following preparation, 
namely : — Soak the crumbs of a French roll in a little 
milk; put it in a stew-pan with two ounces of fresh 
butter, chopped parsley and shallot, nutmeg, pepper 
and salt, and two yolks of raw eggs. Stir this over 
the fire until it becomes a stiff paste, and use it to fill 
the insides of the birds intended for the pie. Then 
line the bottom of a pie-dish with fried coUops of beef, 
and place thereon the birds in neat order. Add hard- 
boiled yolks of eggs, and gravy over all ; cover with 
puff-paste, bake the pie for an hour-and-a-quarter, and 

serve. 

Giblet Pie. 

Cleanse two sets of goose giblets; parboil them in 
water with salt for six minutes ; then drain them on a 
sieve and place them in a stew-pan, with carrot, onion, 
celery, thyme, and parsley, pepper and salt. Moisten 
with stock or water; stew the giblets for one hour, 
then drain them on a sieve ; cut them in pieces about 
two or three inches long. Place a few slices of beef in 
the bottom of a pie-dish, then pack in the giblets with 
hard-boiled eggs ; sprinkle over with flour, strain and 



126 Pies. 

ekim tlie gravy ; add it to the pie, cover with puff 
paste, bake for an hour-and-a-quarter. 
Hare Pie. 
Cut the Lare in joints ; take the head, ribs, and thin 
pieces ol' the hare, and chop them a little ; put them 
into a pau and cover them with cold water. Add 
carrot, t'liioas, celery, parsley, and a sprig of thyme. 
Boil this down for etock, and when reduced, strain it ; 
wash the pieces of hare in cold water; dry them, and 
season rntlier high with pepper and salt. Lay a few 
pieces of ham in the bottom of a pie-dish, with the 
pieces of hare neatly packed. Pour in the stock that 
was stiaiued ; add a glass of port wine ; cover with a 
thick paste, and bake two hours in the oven. 

Rabbit Pie. 

Wash the rabbits, and cut them up in joints. Put 
a piece of batter into a stew-pan ; add the joints, and 
brown them shghtly on both sides, and place them in 
a pie-dish, with a few slices of ham or bacon. Put the 
head, shoulders, and thin pieces into a pan, with a 
piece of celery, carrot, and onion. Boil all the sub- 
stance out of the bones, and strain the stock. Sprinkle 
a little chopped parsley and flour over the rabbits. 
Season them with pepper and salt, and moisten well with 
the stock. Add a table-spoonful of catsup and one ot 
vinegar. Cover the pie with paste, and bake for two 
hours. 

Beef-Steak Pudding. 

Line tlio pudding basin with suet-paste ; mix three- 
quai-ters of a pound of flour to a quarter of a pound of 



Pies, 127 

suet, minced very fine, and sprinkle with a little salt. 
Beat up one egg, and pour it into the middle of the 
flour and suet. Pour in a little water, and mix the 
whole together into a stiff dough. Roll it out as with 
puff-paste. Fold it up, and roll it out a second time to 
the thickness of half an inch. Cut the steak in pieces, 
and season them well with pepper and salt. Cover the 
bottom of the basin with pieces of steak; sprinkle them 
over with minced parsley and shallot. Place a few 
button mushrooms and raw oysters on the top ; then 
another layer of beef-steak; then of parsley, shallot, 
and oysters ; and so on till the basin is filled up to 
the rim. Wet the edge of the basin with water; 
cover the top of the basin with paste. Butter a 
pudding cloth slightly, and drudge it with flour. Tie 
it over the top of the basin, and steam for two hours 
and a half. Turn it out of the basin with care, and 
serve it hot. 

Mutton Pudding. 

Collops or cutlets of mutton are used for this 
purpose. They must be fried in a sauta-pan with an 
ounce of butter, seasoned with chopped mushrooms^ 
parsley, and shallot, pepper and salt; and, when 
browned on both sides without being done through^ 
must be sprinkled over with a spoonfiil of flour, moist- 
ened with half a pint of gravy; and after being allowed 
to simmer over the fire for five minutes, are to be placed 
in neat order in the pudding-dish, already lined with 
suet-paste and some thick slices of potatoes, which 
have been scarcely half done, and placed in between 



12$ Pies. 

the collops of matton. Poor the sauce 07er.aU, cover 
in with Buet-paste, steam or boil for two hoars-aacl-a 
half, and serve. 

Kidney Pudding. 
Take abont a pound and a half of sheep or lamb 
kidneys ; cut into thin slices and put them into a basin ; 
spriokl© them over with pepper and salt. Mince up 
three onions, a few mushrooms, and a little parsley ; 
add to the kidneys ; and, having lined a pudding- 
basin with Buet-paste, fill it with the prepared kidneys. 
Cover it, and steam for an hoor-and-a^hal^ and serve. 

Small Mutton Ples^ 
Mince a quarter of a pound of suet very fine, and 
dissolve it in a stew-pan ; when it boils, pour in half a 
pint of Bweet milk ; let it come to the boil again ; then 
pour it through a hair sieve into one pound of flour 
and a little salt, and work into a smooth dough. 
Divide into six parts, and work each up into a round 
shape with your thumb to the height of three inches, 
which must be the size of the shape. Form the pie 
inside by pressing in a baking roller, a little smaHer 
than the shape. Mest cut up some lean mutton in small 
pieces ; pnt them into a sauta-pan with a small piece of 
butter, a little chopped parsley, and a few mnshrooms ; 
add pepper and salt, and a little gravy. Fill the pies with 
this preparation ; cut ont thin covers with the shape 
in which the pies were formed, and stick them on with 
a beaten egg ; brush them over with the same, and 
bake in a quick oven. During the process keep the 
dough hot to prevent its getting hard while the pies 



Pies, 129 

are being formed. Pork pies are made in the same 
manner, only in seasoning add a little sage instead of 
mushrooms and parsley. Serve very hot. 

Shepherd's Pie. 

Take cold roast beef, mutton, or veal; cut it in 
ordinary-sized slices, and season it with pepper and 
salt. Out some onions in slices and fry them in butter, 
with chopped parsley, and mix with the pieces of meat. 
Put the whole into a pie-dish. Collect all the roast 
meat, bones, and any trimmings of fresh meat that can 
be had ; put them in a pan with carrot, turnip, celery, 
and a q)rig of thyme, and cover with cold water. Boil 
until the substance is out of the bones ; strain and skim 
the stock; pour it over the meat.* Have some potatoes 
boiled, and nicely beaten, add an egg well beaten, and 
a little milk ; season with pepper and salt. Beat them 
up with a fork, cover the dish with the potatoes, 
smooth it all over with a knife, pinch it round the 
edge, and mark it on the top the same as paste. Bake 
it in an oven until the meat is very hot, and the 
potatoes a nice brown colour. 





VEGETABLES. 



To Boil Cardoon. 

Cut away the coarse outside of the cardoon, wash 

it free from sand, lay it in cold water to harden ; then 

boil it in milk and water until tender ; drain it on the 

back of a sieve. Cut each stalk in two ; place them 

in a vegetable dish, and pour white sauce over them 

and serve. 

To Cook Tomatoes. 

Take some whole tomatoes ; leave about an inch of 

the stalk to each. Take a flat-bottomed basin, rub it 

slightly with butter; place the tomatoes in the basin; 

put a pan with boiling water on the stove or fire; 

place the basin in the pan ; let the water reach up to 

the middle of the basiD. Cover the pan close, and let 

the tomatoes steam until quite soft. Ten minutes will 

do them. Dish them upon a napkin, and send them 

up hot. 

To Boll Globe Artichokes. 

Cut the stalks of the artichokes, and with a pair of 
scissors cut the thorns off the points of the leaves ; lay 
them in cold water for several hours. When wanted^ 
put them in a pan of boiling water with salt^ and a 
small piece soda about the size of a pearl button ; boil 
for about an hour. When the leaves are soft at their 



Vegetables. 131 



attachment, they are done. Drain them upon a sieve, 
and dish them on a napkin ; serve with game. 

Salsify. 

Scrape off the outside part until the vegetables 

become white, and put them in a dish with cold water 

with a little vinegar; then boil them with milk and 

water. When done, drain them on a sieve; place 

them in a vegetable dish; pour white sauce over them, 

and serve. 

White Beans. 

White beans, when new and fresh, must be put into 
boiling water ; if old and dry, they should soak for an 
hour in cold water before boiling them. Put them on 
in cold water, boil them very tender. Put into a stew- 
pan a piece of fresh butter, a little finely-minced 
parsley, some pepper and salt, and then the beans, 
previously well drained. Keep shaking the stew-pan, 
but do not touch the beans for fear of breaking them ; 

serve very hot. 

Cauliflowers. 

If the cauliflowers are very large, cut them into 
quarters; if small, keep them whole. Put them in 
boiKng water with a little salt ; boil them for half-an- 
hour, less or more, until they are tender ; drain them 
on a sieve without breaking them; place them on their 
dish, and pour white sauce over them, and serve. 

To Dress Jerusalem Artichokes. 

Wash and pare the artichokes in the form of pears 
— let them be all the same size (the small ones can be 



132 Vegetables. 



used for soup) ; boil the artichokes in water and milk 
for half an hour ; drain them, place them in their dish, 
pour white sauce over them, and serve. 

American Yams. 

Wash and dry the yams ; bake them for two hours 
in a slow oven, or until they are soft to the touch* 
Then cut them into slices about an inch thick, and, 
with a round tin cutter about the size of a crown-piece, 
cut up the yams without waste ; season them slightly 
with white pepper and salt ; place them in a vege- 
table dish; pour over them some clear tarragon, Dutch, 
or plain white sauce, and serve. 

Vegetable Marrow. 

Pare a vegetable marrow and divide it into six or 
eight parts; put it into a pan with hot water, with a little 
salt and vinegar, and boil it for half an hour. Drain it 
on a sieve, dish it, and pour white sauce over it. 

To Boil Young Turnips. 

Peel them a nice round shape ; boil them in water 
with a little salt ; dish them, and pour butter sauce 
over them. They may be boiled in milk, and served 
with white sauce. 

Young Carrots. 

Wash and scrape a bunch of spring carrots ; parboil 
them in water for a few minutes ; drain them and put 
them into a stew-pan, cover them with white stock ; 
stew them for half an hour ; when done, place them in 
a vegetable dish, and thicken the sauce with a little 



Vegetables. 133 

flour ; season with pepper and salt ; pour it over the 
carrots, and serve. 

To Boil Sea-Kale. 

Trim the sed.-kale and tie it into bundles, with the 
roots all one way ; put it in boiling water with salt ; 
boil it for half an hour ; when done, drain it upon a 
sieve; put a slice of toasted bread into the dish. 
Place the kale upon the toast ; pour white sauce over 
it, or plain butter sauce. 

Onions, with White Sauce. 

Skin as many large onions as you require ; parboil 
them in water for ten minutes ; then place them in a 
stew-pan ; cover them with white stock or milk ; stew 
them for an hour until they are quite tender. Mix 
a little flour with milk, pour it into the pan, and boil 
for a little. Season with salt and white pepper ; dish 
the onions and pour the sauce over them. 

Celery, with Brown Sauce. 

Take five or six heads of celery with the roots — 
these being the best part of it ; break off the coarse, 
outside stalks ; lay them in cold water for some hours ; 
parboil them in water for ten minutes ; drain, and place 
them in a stew-pan, with as much stock as cover them. 
Add a small piece of glaze, pepper and salt, and a 
very little flour. Let all stew gently for about an 
hour. When done, dish up the celery; strain the 
sauce and pour it over the celery. Large onions may 
be stewed in the same manner, by using brown gravy 
instead of white. 



134 Vegetables. 



To Boil Cabbages. 

Lay the cabbages in cold water with salt ; put them 
in a pan of boiling water with salt ; boil them sharply 
for half an hour; drain them, and sauce them over 
with plain butter sauce. 

To Dress Beet-Root. 

Wash the earth off the beet-root without breaking 
the skin ; boil it for two hours or more, according to 
the size of the beet-root. When cold, skin it and cut 
it in thin sUces. Beat the yolk of an egg with a spoon- 
ful of vinegar, half a teaspoonfal of made mustard, and 
a wine-glassful of cream ; pour over the beet-root. 

To Boil Spinach. 

Get a good-sized basketftil of spinach, and pluck off 
the stalks from the leaves, which throw in cold water 
as thus prepared ; wash them in several waters ; put 
them into a pan with boiling water, and boil for twenty 
minutes ; then turn them into a sieve to drain^ and 
place them into a clean cloth and wring all the water 
out of them. Melt a piece of butter in a stew-pan with 
the spinach, and make very hot ; then add half a tea- 
cupful of cream, pepper and salt, and a pinch of sugar; 
stir well together, and dish it up very hot. 

To Boil Asparagus. 

Wash the asparagus in cold water, and scrape the 
bottom parts a little ; tie them up in bundles ; let 
them lie in cold water. When wanted, put them in a 
pan of boiUng water to boil for ten or fifteen minutes ; 



Vegetables. 135 



drain them on the back of a sieve, and dish them on 
toasted bread, and pour a little well-made butter sauce 
over them and serve. 

To Boil Green Peas. 

Put the peas in a flat pan with boiling water, a 
small stalk of mint, a little salt, and a pinch of sugar. 
If very young, ten or fifteen minutes will do them ; if 
old, they will require half an hour. Drain and dish 
them ; mix a little butter with the peas. 




GAME. 



To Roast a Pheasant 



Pluck, and singe the bird with white lighted paper. 
Cut a slit in the back part of the neck and remove the 
crop ; leave the head attached to the bird. Draw, and 
wipe the inside with a cloth ; turn the head under the 
wiug J run a trueeing-needle and string through the 
wing and under part of the thigh through the body 
to the thigh and wing on the other side. Press the 
feet close to the body, and tie the string tightly. Next 
pass the needle with string through the hollow of the 
back, just below the thighs ; thrust it again through 
the legs and body, and tie the strings tightly. Spit 
and roast the pheasant before a clear brisk fire for three- 
quarters of an hour, basting it frequently. Have a 
piece of toast slightly buttered j place it under the 
bird while it is roasting. Let the gravy drop from the 
bird on to the bread. When the bird is done cut the 
toast in four pieces ; place them on a dish. Lay the 
bird on the toast, and put a wall of brown bread- 
ci-umba round the dish. Serve with brown gravy, and 
bread sauce, in sauce-boats, and also potato ribands. 



Game. 137 

Potato Ribands. 

Peel the potatoes round and smooth with a sharp 
knife. Cut very thin shavings, about seven or more 
inches in length, and one and a half in width. Put 
them in cold water as thus prepared ; lay them on a 
dry cloth ; gather it up, and shake it to dry the rib- 
ands without breaking them. Put them in a deep 
stew-pan with boiling lard, and fiy them for five 
minutes. Have them quite crisp, and of a pale brown 
colour. Drain them on paper, and sprinkle them with 
a little salt, and dish them on a napkin. 

To Roast Grouse and Black Game. 

Both these birds should be trussed in the same way 
as pheasants, and roasted before a brisk fire for half 
an hour and five minutes. Before taking them up they 
should be frothed with flour and butter. Dish them 
with toast under theni, and a little brown gravy poured 
on the dish. Serve fried bread-crumbs and bread 
sauce in separate sauce-boats. 

To Roast Guinea-Fowl. 

These should be trussed in the same manner as 
pheasants, and covered with a layer of fat bacon, and 
roasted before a brisk fire for about twenty minutes. 
With their breasts slightly glazed, dish them up with 
gravy under them. Garnish with water-cresses. Serve 
bread sauce separately. 

Woodcock and Snipe. 

These birds must not be drawn, neither do they re- 
quire much trussing. Take the bone out of the neck. 



1 38 Game. 

leaving the skin and head attached to the body. Twist 
the skin of the neck round the wing, and put the bill 
through the wing and body instead of a skewer. 
Cover the birds with thin slices of raw bacon, tied on 
with string. Spit them, and roast them before a clear 
fire for about half an hour, frequently basting them with 
butter. Place some toasted bread under the birds while 
they are roasting, to receive the droppings from the 
trail ; and when they are done, dish them up with a 
piece of toast under each bird. Serve plain butter 
sauce separately in a sauce-boat. 

Roast Larks. 

Cut off the heads and legs, and take out gizzards. 
Season their insides with chopped parsley, pepper and 
salt, and the grating of a nutmeg. Bub the larks 
over with beaten yolks of eggs ; bread-crumb them, 
and moisten them with clarified butter. KoU them in 
bread-crumbs a second time ; put them on a lark-spit, 
and tie it on a common spit, and roast for a quarter 
of an hour. Dish them, and serve with fried bread- 
crumbs and brown sauce, seasoned with cayenne pepper 
and lemon juice. 

Pea-Hens. 

These birds must be trussed in the same way as 
pheasants, and must be closely larded all over the 
breast, and roasted before a moderate fire for an hour 
and a hali^ frequently basted with butter ; and when 
done the larding must be glazed slightly, and the birds 
dished up with rich brown gravy, and garnished with 
water-cresses, and bread sauce served in a sauce-boat. 



Game. 139 

Green Goose. 

Pluck the goose, and with a penknife pick off all the 
stubble feathers ; dip the legs in boiling water, and 
rub off the skin with a cloth ; cut off the head and 
neck, leaving the skin long enough to turn over the 
back, and twist the legs round so as to let the web of 
the feet rest flat upon the thighs. Run a trussing- 
needle with string through the wing and thigh of 
the right side through the body of the bird to the 
thigh and wing on the left, and tie it tightly at the 
back of the goose. Place it on a spit, and roast it before 
a brisk iBre for an hour, basting it frequently. Froth it 
with flour and butter, and when done, dish it up. Pour 
brown gravy round it ; garnish the dish with water- 
cresses and serve. 

Wild Duck. 

These must be trussed in the same manner as yoimg 
geese, and roasted before a clear fire for twenty 
minutes, and served with brown gravy, seasoned with 
port wine and cayenne pepper. 

Roast Partridges. 

Pluck, singe, and draw the partridges ; cut away the 
head and neck and the points of the toes ; truss them 
in the same manner as grouse or black game ; place 
them on a spit and roast them before a clear fire for 
twenty minutes ; place toasted bread under them while 
they are roasting. When done, cut the toast in four 
parts, and cut off the crusts. Dish the birds upon the 
toast ; put brown gravy under them, and serve bread 



1 40 Game. 

sauce and brown bread crumbs separately in sauce- 
boats. 

How to Roast Quails. 

Pluck, draw and trass these birds as for pheasants ; 
cut some thin slices of fat bacon^ large enough to cover 
the quails ; spread a vine leaf over each of the quails, 
and tie it on with string ; run an iron skewer through the 
birds, fasten it on to a spit, roast them before a clear 
fire for twenty minutes; remove them from the spit, 
remove the vine leaves, and glaze the bacon slightly ; 
place them on their dish, and garnish round with water- 
cresses. Pour some gravy under the birds and serve. 

Roast Pigeons. 

Clean and ^truss the pigeons, cover them with fat 
bacon and vine leaves, secure them with string and 
roast them twenty minutes ; remove the leaves and 
bacon, and glaze them slightly. Serve with gravy 
and brown bread crumbs in a sauce-boat. 

Roast Hare. 

Skin and draw the hare, leaving the ears attached ; 
dip them in boiling water, and scrape oflf the hairs ; 
pick out the eyes, cut oflF the feet just above the first 
joint; wash the hare in cold water and dry it with a 
clean cloth, and cut the sinews at the back of the hind 
quarters and below the fore legs. Prepare some hare 
stuflSng, and fill the inside with it ; then draw the legs 
under, as if the hare were in a sitting position, set the 
head between the shoulders, and stick a skewer 
through them, running also through the neck to secure 



Game. 141 

its position ; run another skewer through the fore legs, 
which should be gathered up under the haunch ; take 
a piece of string, double it, place the middle of it on 
the breast of the hare, and take both ends over the 
skewer, cross the string on both sides and fasten it on 
the back. Thus far prepared, spit the hare and roast it 
before a brisk fire for about an hour, frequently bastiug 
it with fresh dripping. Five minutes before dishing, 
drudge it over with flour, and baste it with some fresh 
butter. When this frothes up, and the hare has ac- 
quired a rich brown crust, take it up, remove the string 
and skewerSj place it on its dish, pour some brown 
gravy round it, and send some red currant jelly in a 
sauce-boat to be handed round. 

Stuffing for Hares. 

Cut up the lights, liver, and heart, and fry them 
slightly, with the same quantity of ham or bacon ;• add 
an onion, mushrooms, nutnreg, pepper and salt, and a 
very small sprig of thyme ; pound all together in a 
mortar. Add two ounces of bread-crumbs and an egg; 
mix well together, and use for stuffing hares. 

Roast Rabbits. 

Skin and truss the rabbits in the same manner as 
hares; stuflF them with hare stuffing; then spit and 
roast before a clear fire, frequently basting them with 
fresh dripping. Mix a teacupful of cream with the 
yolk of a beaten egg, a dessert-spoonful of flour, a little 
chopped parsley, nutmeg, pepper and salt. Mask the 
rabbits entirely with this, and, as soon as it has dried 



142 Game. 

on them, baste them with some fresh butter. This 
prevents them from becoming dry. Dish the rabbits 
with care, to avoid breaking off the crust formed upon 
them. Boil the livers, chop them fine, and put into a 
small stew-pan, with chopped parsley, a little brown 
sauce, pepper and salt, nutmeg, and a squeeze of 
lemon; stir this over the fire imtil it boils for a few 
minutes, and pour it under the rabbits. 





SALADS. 



Aspic Jelly, for Salads. 

Cut up about ten pounds of shanks of veal, two ox 
feet, or four calves' feet, and an old fowl, with three 
carrots, one stalk of celery, small bunch of parsley, one 
bay leaf, one sprig of thyme, the same of sweet marjo- 
rum, six cloves, and eighteen pepper-corns, and about 
an ounce of salt. Put all the meat, vegetables, herbs^ 
and seasonings into a large pot ; pour in as much cold 
water as cover them thoroughly; place the pot on the 
stove ; and when the water boils, skim it well and boil 
it gently for seven hours without reducing it much in 
quantity. Then strain the stock through a tammy- 
sieve into pans, and place it in the larder to cool till 
the next day. When the stock is perfectly cold and 
firm, with a spoon skim off all the oil and grease. Dip 
a clean napkin in boiling water ; wring it out and dab 
it over the stock to free it from grease ; place the aspic 
in a proper-sized stew-pan, and set it on the stove to 
dissolve ; lightly draw some pieces of white blotting- 
paper over its surface, to remove any remaining grease. 
Whip up four eggs with half a pint of cold water, and 
half a pint of French white wine, and a small wine-glass- 
ful of tarragon vinegar and a few egg-shells. Mix all up 
with a whisk, and continue whipping it imtil it begins 



144 Salads. 

to boil. Draw it to the side of the fire, place the lid on 

the pan, allow it to simmer for an hour, then pass it 

through a jelly-bag or napkin. Keep it in a cool place 

ready for use. 

Oyster Salad. 

Open two dozen large oysters ; add their liquor to 
half a pint of dissolved aspic jelly, and the white of an 
egg beat up with the shell; mix in a small pan, place on 
the stove till it boils ; pass the jelly through a napkin. 
Take a casserole shape, and wet the inside with cold 
water ; pour in as much jelly as cover the bottom of 
the shape; place the shape on ice until it is set 
quite firm ; then place a row of oysters on the top of 
the jelly, distant about an inch from each other ; and 
with a spoon pour a little of the jelly gently over the 
oysters. Let the shape remain on the ice, or in a cool 
place. Cut some thin slices of beet-root lengthways, 
and, with small fancy tin cutters, cut out some shapes 
of beet-root; lay them round in position as for oysters ; 
sauce them over with the jelly, which must be cold hut 
not set. Place alternate layers of oysters, beet-root, and 
jelly in the mould till it is filled. The jelly must be 
allowed to firm before any other layer is added. When 
set and quite firm, dip the shape in tepid water, and 
loosen it round the edges; turn it out on its dish with- 
out breaking it. Cut up two or three lettuces ; add some 
mustard, and cresses, well washed and dried in a cloth; 
mix two table-spoonfuls of salad oil with two of vinegar, 
and a little pepper and salt. Sprinkle them over the 
lettuces, and mix them up lightly ; place them in the 
oentre of the aspic. 



Salads. 145 

Salmon Salad. 

Boil about a pound of salmon, and when cold cut 
it up into pieces about two inches long and an inch 
thick. Prepare two or three shred lettuces with a 
little mustard and cress ; steep them in a basin with a 
little salad oil and vinegar, pepper and salt, then drain 
them on a cloth ; mix them up lightly with the pieces 
of salmon, place them on their dish, sauce the whole 
over with Prince of Wales' sauce, garnish with boiled 
beet-root (cut with fancy cutters), and two hard-boiled 
eggs, their yolks cut in four parts, and the whites cut 
with cutters in smaU shapes, 

Genoese Salad. 

Fillet two soles, place them in a sauta-pan with a 
little butter, pepper and salt. When done, place them 
between two dishes until they are cold ; then cut them 
in pieces two or three inches long. Season the fillets 
with pepper and salt, then roll them in stiff Genoese 
sauce, place them on a bed of shred lettuces; take 
the yolks of three hard-boiled eggs and pound them 
in the mortar with a piece of fresh butter, pepper 
and salt ; rub them through a coarse wire sieve, put a 
border of the vermicellied yolks round the salad ; cut 
the whites in small forms with small fancy tin cutters 
to ornament the salad. 

Robert Salad. 

Take, as a matter of economy, some pieces of turbot 
or brill left from a previous day's dinner ; season the 
pieces with pepper and salt, roll each piece of fish 



146 Salads. 

separately in some cold, stiff Robert sauce, shred three 
or four lettuces, season them with oil, vinegar, pepper 
and salt, place them on the back of a sieve to drip, put 
them on their dish, then lay the pieces of fish on the 
bed of lettuces, garnish round the base of the salad 
with a border of hard-boiled eggs (each cut in four), 
and some raddishes cut in shapes and placed between 
each quarter of egg. 

Lobster Salad. 

Take a boiled lobster, remove all the meat from the 
back and claws, cut it in neat pieces about two inches in 
length, season them slightly with pepper, salt, and 
vinegar ; take a casserole shape, wet it inside with cold 
water, pour in some dissolved aspic jelly, about an inch 
deep, put it upon ice or in a cool place to firm. When 
quite stiff, place the pieces of fish in the mould upon 
the jelly, put some more jelly over the fish and let it 
firm. Take a small tin cutter and cut out fancy shapes 
from truffles, lay them in the mould on the jelly and 
cover it over with aspic; when set, cover with 
lobster and aspic alternately until the mould is full. 
Prepare some lettuce with a little mustard and cress, 
season with pepper and salt. When the aspic jelly is 
perfectly firm, dip the shape in tepid water to loosen it 
round the edges, give a shake and turn it out upon its 
dish. Place the lettuces, mustard, and cress in the well 
of the casserole shape, sauce it over with mayonaise 
sauce without touching the aspic. Sprinkle a little of 
the lobster coral over the sauce, garnish round the 
base with a few sprigs of parsley and serve. 



Salads. 147 

Mayonaise of Chicken. 
Cut Tip a cold roast chicken into small joints, and 
remove the skins ; season them with a little pepper and 
salt ; take a casserole shape and wet it inside with cold 
water, pour in aspic jelly to about the depth of an inch, 
and put it away to firm. Have two eggs boiled very 
hard, cut them in halves ; take a small cutter the size 
of a sixpence, and cut the whites up with this cutter, 
then take a smaller cutter, the size of a threepenny 
piece, and cut out the centre of the larger pieces, thus 
leaving a round ring of white of egg. Cut out some 
pieces of black truffle with the smallest cutter, and 
place this piece of truffle into the ring of the white of 
egg, thus forming an eye. Place the eyes on the top of 
the jelly about an inch apart. Take a spoon and pour 
some aspic jelly over the eyes in the mould, remember- 
ing that the jelly must be cold but not set. When the 
aspic is again firm, place the fillets of chicken on the 
aspic with jelly over them about an inch deep. Take 
a small vegetable cutter, scoop out some boiled beet- 
root in the form of eggs, place these on the jelly in 
the shape, cover them over with aspic, and allow it to 
firm. Then fill with chicken and jelly alternately, and 
allow it to firm. Then turn it out upon its dish. Take 
about two or three heads of lettuce, cut away the outside 
leaves, using the centre portions only. Cut them up 
rather small, with one stalk of celery (shred very fine), 
and a little water-cress, with the yolks of the eggs 
minced, seasoned slightly with pepper and salt, mix up 
the salad and place it in the centre of the shape of aspic, 
add a little thick cream to the mayonaise sauce, pour 



X48 Salads. 

it over the lettuce, celery, and cress, without touching 
the shape of aspic, and serve. 

Note. — When aspic jelly is not very firm a little 
isinglass should be added. Mayonaise sauce may be 
used for lobster, salmon, turbot, or soles, and also for 
oyster salad. 

Galantine of Poularde. 

Pluck, singe, and bone a young turkey, or a large 
young fowl. Draw the skin, legs, and wings inside. 
Spread out the boned fowl upon the table; season 
with pepper and salt. Spread a layer of sausage-meat 
an inch thick upon this, and add some slices of tongue 
or lean ham, and a few small pieces of black truffles ; 
then a layer of sausage-meat, the seasoning, and the 
tongue or ham. Having filled up the galantine, sew it 
up with twine ; roll it in a buttered napkin ; fasten the 
ends with string, and set it to braze in some fowl or 
veal stock, for about an hour and a half. When done, 
the galantine must be allowed to become nearly cold 
in its own stock, in order to make it juicy. Then the 
galantine must be put in press between two flat dishes, 
with a heavy weight on the top ; and when quite cold 
and removed from the napkin, the string must be taken 
out and the galantine placed upon its dish, slightly 
glazed and ornamented with aspic jelly, and served 
for breakfast, luncheon, or supper. 

Galantine of Poularde, with Cream Bechamel 

Sauce. 

Stuff", braze, and press the fowl as already directed. 
When placed upon its dish, sauce it over with cream 



Salads. 149 

bechamel sauce, with a little isinglass added to the 
sauce. Ornament it with aspic jelly. 

Pheasant Salad. 

Boil a pheasant in some white veal stock, and use 
the stock to make some highly-seasoned and stiffly- 
reduced AUemande sauce. Cut up the pheasant into 
small neat joints ; mask them all over with the sauce, 
and place them on a dish to become cold and set firm. 
Cut up some lettuces; season them with salad oil, 
vinegar, pepper and salt ; then allow them to drip on 
a sieve. Place them on the centre of the dish ; then 
put the joints of pheasant on the bed of lettuces. 
Garnish with roughly minced aspic jelly, and a few 
truffles cut in shapes, and prepared cocks'-combs. 

Grouse Salad. 

Cut up a roast grouse into neat small joints. Use 
the bones and trimmings to make some salmis sauce ; 
reduce it stiffly, and mix it with a third portion of 
aspic jelly. Use this to mask the joints ; and add a 
thick coating of the sauce, and set them on ice, or in a 
cool place to become set firm. Place seasoned shred 
lettuce on the centre of the disb, and upon this build 
up the joints of grouse. Garnish round with curled 
celery, and an outer border of quarters of hard eggs. 
Garnish the top with roughly minced aspic jelly. 

Russian Salad. 

Boil some carrots, beet-root, and parsnips. When 
cold, either pinch or scoop them out in shapes, or cut 



1 50 Salads. 

them in dice. To these add gherkins ; also a few 

capers with cut lobster, or prawns, or chicken and ham, 

cut up in small pieces, and sauced over with mayonaise 

sauce. 

Salad, a la Rachel. 

Shred the white stalks of two heads of celery in 
inch lengths, and put these in a dish with the whites 
of three hard-boiled eggs, also shred. Pile them up 
lightly, and pour over them some Prince of Wales' 
sauce. Place some slices of tongue or lean ham round 
the base of the salad. Put the yolks of eggs in a 
mortar ; add a teaspoonful of anchovy paste, with a 
little pepper and salt. Pound and mix all well ; rub 
through a coarse wire sieve; sprinkle it over the salad; 
also some black truffles shred fine ; then serve. 

Cucumber Salad. 

Peel, and then cut the cucumbers in thin slices. 

Season with salad oil and vinegar; add a few thin 

slices of pickled onions ; sprinkle over with pepper and 

salt. 

Spanish Salad. 

Cut three or four tomatoes in slices, and dish them 
up in a circular row in a dish; fill the centre with 
French beans, Spanish peas, pickled button onions, 
green peas, haricot beans, and common gherkins cut in 
pieces, sprinkled over with pepper and salt. Mix a table- 
spoonful of thick cream with some mayonaise sauce, 
and pour it over the salad. Garnish the dish round 
with a little mustard and cress, and serve. 



Salads. 151 

Potato Salad. 

Cut up some cold potatoes and boiled beet-root in 
slices. Season with pepper and salt, and mix them 
together in a dish ; add a little thick cream to some 
mayonaise sauce, and pour it over the potatoes and 
beet-root, and serve. A little thick cream should 
always be added to mayonaise sauce when used for 
fowl and vegetable salads. 

Beet-root Salad. 

Boil two ordinary sized beet-roots, and when cold 
cut them in slices. Boil one Spanish onion, and cut it 
in slices ; mix two spoonfuls of salad oil, one of vinegar, 
a little chopped parsley, pepper and salt — pour over 
the beet-roots and onion. 




SANDWICHES. 



Fish Sandwiches. 

Cut some thin slices of bread, and butter them; 
place thin scollops of any kind of cooked fish you may 
happen to have, on the bread so prepared ; spread 
a little tartar sauce over the pieces of fish, and strew 
some shred lettuce-leaves, and a few shred gherkins,, 
and hard-boiled eggs cut in thin slices ; season with 
pepper and salt; place another slice of bread and 
butter upon this, and press it. Cut up the sandwiches 
in squares, and dish them upon a napkin and serve. 



The Prince's Sandwich. 

Take the meat of roast pheasant, grouse, or part- 
ridge, and cut it into small, neat squares ; to this add 
a third portion of tongue and trufile, cut in the same 
manner. Make a stiff salmis sauce from the bones of 
the birds ; add a small piece of good soup glaze, set it 
away to become cold and firm. All the meat, tongue, 
and trufile must be mixed with the sauce, and then be 
cut out in shapes to suit the slices of bread, which 
must be cut from small milk-rolls, and be spread with 
butter. 



Sandwiches. 153 



Irish Sandwiches. 

Toast some thin slices of bread ; cut some slices of 
roast game of any sort; season with a little tartar 
«auce. Place the meat on the slices of toast, sprinkle 
over with a little cress and shred celery. 

Adelaide Sandwiches. 
Cut up some roast chicken in small square pieces, 
and one-third the quantity of ham. Make a little 
sauce from the bones of chicken ; boil down to half 
glaze. Mix two spoonfuls of sauce to one of curry 
paste ; and when it boils, add the chicken and ham. 
Cut some slices of stale bread ; stamp out these with a 
plain, round tin cutter, the size of a crown-piece, and 
fry them to a light brown colour, in clarified butter ; 
between two of these round pieces of toast, place a 
thick layer of the preparation, and, as soon as this is 
<lone, place them on a baking-sheet; then put upon 
the tops a round ball about the size of a walnut, 
composed of grated parmesan cheese and butter in 
equal parts, and kneaded into a paste. Put them 
in a brisk oven for five minutes, and dish them on 

a napkin. 

Egg Sandwiches. 

Boil two eggs very hard; mince very finely the 
whites and yolks separately. Toast two slices of 
bread ; spread them with fresh butter, and over that 
spread a little curry paste. Cut away tbe crusts of 
the toast, and ateo cut the toast in pieces about five 
inches long and an inch and a-half wide ; place a 
narrow row of white of egg in a slanting way on the 



154 Sandwiches. 



toast, then of yolk, then of chopped parsley, and so 

on until the piece of toast is covered; then dish ou 

a napkin. 

Victoria Sandwiches. 

Cut thin brown bread, and butter it ; and between 
two slices place alternate layers of thinly-sliced, hard- 
boiled eggs, a little American cress, and cleaned fillets 
of anchovies. Divide these slices into small square 
pieces, and dish them on a napkin. 




SUNDRY PREPARATIONS. 



Potted Lobster. 

Boil a lobster ; remove all the meat, pith, and coral, 
and pound in a mortar until reduced to a smooth pulp ; 
then add a teaspoonfnl of anchovy, a pinch of cayenne, 
a little pounded mace, and four ounces of clarified 
butter. Pound all together thoroughly, put it into 
pots ; smooth over the surface, cover in with clarified 
butter, and keep it in a cool place. 

Potted Fowl and Ham. 
Roast a fowl and remove all the meat from the 
bones, and with these make a little stock, well seasoned 
with herbs and spice, and boil it down to a glaze. 
Chop the meat with six ounces of cooked ham, and 
pound both together in a mortar to a smooth pulp ; 
add the glaze, and four ounces of clarified butter. 
Pound all well together, and put in small, flat pie-pots ; 
cover these in with clarified butter, and keep them in a 

cool place. 

Potted Pheasant. 

Boast a pheasant, and, while hot, remove all the 
meat from the bones, and with these make a little 
stock. To this add four shallots, half a bay-leaf, small 
sprig of thyme, a bit of ham ; boil down to a glaze and 



156 Stntdry Preparations. 

strain it into a basin ; skim it well, and add two table- 
spoonfuls of catsup and two of sherry. First chop and 
then pound into a smooth pulp all the meat in a 
mortar ; add the glaze, six ounces of clarified butter, 
pepper and salt. Pound all together and fill small 
pots with it ; cover over with clarified butter, and keep 
in a cool place. 

Potted Spiced Beef. 

Take about three pounds of spiced beef and put it 
into a stew-pan with two quarts of water; add 
two roots of garlic, one bay-leaf, one small sprig 
of thyme, a very little basil, small sprig of mar- 
jorum, eight cloves, one blade of mace, twenty pepper- 
corns, and a teaspoonful of celery seeds. Cover the 
pan with a lid and set the whole to stew very gently 
over a slow fire for two hours ; strain the liquor into a 
basin ; chop the meat, and then pound it in a mortar 
until reduced to a pulp. Add the liquor, previously 
boiled down, with three ounces of soup glaze, to 
half a pint; pound all together again, with half a 
pound of clarified butter added, and fill up in small 
pots, and cover them with clarified butter. 

To Clarify Butter. 

Put half a pound of butter (or any other quantity) 
into a small stew-pan. Let it dissolve slowly on the 
stove ; it must then be boiled for a few minutes. Re- 
move the scum as it rises ; draw it to the side of the fire, 
and allow it to stand for a few minutes ; then strain it 
through a piece of musUn into a dish, keeping back 



Sundiy Preparations. 157 

the sediment. Allow it to cool, but not set. It may 
then be used to cover potted fish and meat. 

To Fry Parsley. 

Get a small basket of parsley, or whatever quantity 

may be required ; pluck ofiF the stalks from the sprigs ; 

wash the sprigs in cold water, and place them on a 

dry towel. Gather up the edges of the towel, 

and shake it well to free the parsley from water. 

Place it in a wire frying-basket ; then place the basket 

in a pan with boiling lard, or frying fat. Fry it for 

three or four minutes, until it gets crisp. When done, 

put it on paper to drain before the fire, and use for 

garnishing. 

Spinach Greening. 

Get a basket of spinach ; wash it in cold water ; put 
it dripping wet into a mortar. Pound it, and place into 
a flat pan. Stir it with a wooden spoon until all the 
juice is extracted from the leaves. Turn it out of the 
pan into a sieve. Allow the juice to drip into a basin. 
It is then ready for use. 





S AVO U RI ES. 



Savoury Eggs. 

Take any number of* eggs ; boil them hard, and 
skin them. When cold, cut off a piece from the small 
end; take out the yolks, and beat them in a mortar 
with an equal number of anchovies, a little catsup, a 
piece of butter, and a very small piece of ham or 
tongue. Season with pepper and salt, and squeeze of 
a lemon. Pound and mix the whole well together. 
With this composition fill the whites of the eggs. Cut 
a thin slice from the bottom of the whites, so that they 
may sit even on the dish. When the whites are all 
filled, place them on a dish with a folded napkin imder 
them. Cut some chips of ham or tongue, and of whites 
of eggs, and place them on the top of the filled whites 
of eggs ; and garnish the dish with sprigs of parsley. 

Roasted Oysters. 

Beard and lay three oysters on a piece of thin flat 
bacon, large enough to cover them. Turn the bacon 
over them. Put a skewer through the bacon, so 
as to keep the oysters quite covered. Put them on 
a tin before the fire to roast; turn them until the 
bacon is nicely cooked without being dry; then re- 



Savouries. 159 



move the skewers, place the bacon with oysters on a 
piece of buttered toast, and serve very hot. Cook as 
many oysters as may be required in the same manner. 

Black Puddings. 

Salt some hog's blood as soon as drawn ; strain and 
mix it with a little milk ; and stir in minced suet, oat- 
meal, pepper and salt, and minced onion, until pretty 
thick. Have some skins well cleaned, and fill them 
with the mixture ; tie the ends together ; prick the 
puddings, and put them into a pan with • boiling water, 
and boil for about an hour. Serve very hot. 

Note. — ^These puddings will keep for months if laid 
in oatmeal. When about to use, warm them in hot 
water or broil them on the gridiron. 

Oyster Toasts. 

To four toasts made of a French roll take sixteen 
middle-sized oysters, three anchovies, boned and 
scraped, but not washed; chop the anchovies and 
oysters together; put them into a pan with a piece 
of butter, a teaspoonful of flour, and the oyster liquor, 
seasoned with pepper and salt ; let it simmer over a 
slow fire for a little. The sKces of French roll must be 
filed in butter ; then place them on white paper, spread 
the mixture on the toasts, and dish them on a napkin ; 
garnish with sprigs of parsley, and serve very hot. 

Marrow Toast. 
Procure a marrow bone, and cut the marrow into 
pieces the size of a filbert, and parboil them in boiling 



1 60 Savouries. 



water for one minute. The water must be seasoned 
with salt. It must then be instantly drained upon a 
sieve, seasoned with a little chopped parsley, pepper 
and salt, the least bit of chopped shallot, and the 
squeeze of a lemon. Toss lightly together, spread it 
out upon hot, crisp, dry toast, and serve immediately. 

Ham Toast. 

Make some toast and butter it hot ; grate a little 

cooked ham or tongue, and sprinkle it over the toast ; 

serve it hot. 

Tomato Cheese. 

Take as many ripe tomatoes as may be required ; 
cut a thin slice from the stalk-ends, and with a tea- 
spoon scrape out all the seeds and soft matter of the 
tomato, without breaking the skin; rub it through a hair 
sieve and put it into a small pan, with a piece of butter 
and a little grated parmesan cheese, and the beaten-up 
yolk of one or two eggs (according to the number of 
tomatoes) ; add pepper and salt to taste, make it hot, 
and fill the tomato skins with the mixture. Butter the 
bottom of a pie-dish, and place the tomatoes in the 
dish; sprinkle a little browned bread-crumbs on the 
top, and bake in a moderate oven for ten minutes. 
Dish them on a napkin, and servo very hot. 

Savoury Omeletta 

Beat up three eggs ; then add a teacupful of cream, 
a little grated bam or tongue, a little parsley and 
shallot, pepper and salt. Put a piece of butter in an 
omelette pan, make it hot, pour in the omelette ; with 



Savouries. 1 6 1 



a wooden spoon stir it about in the pan till it thickena 
a little ; then smooth the top. When the under side 
gets a little brown, hold the pan before the fire until 
the top is brown ; roll it up and place it on a hot dish 
with gravy. 

Cheese Omelette. 

Take a small, flat dish that will withstand the oven ; 
cut small pieces of common cheese, about a quarter of an 
inch thick; set the pieces of cheese on their edge 
all round the dish, about half-an-inch apart from each 
other; sprinkle the bottom of the dish with brown bread- 
crumbs, and over that some thin slices of cheese ; drop 
three or four raw eggs on the dish ; sprinkle a little 
pepper and salt over the eggs, a little grated cheese^ 
and brown bread-crumbs ; then place a few small bits 
of butter on the top ; put it in the oven to bake for 
ten or fifteen minutes. The eggs should be about as 
firm as when poached, but not hard. Send it to table 
A'ery hot. 

Cheese Pudding. 

Take half a pound of mild cheese and grate it ; beat 
two ounces of butter to a cream, and mix it with the 
cheese ; add two spoonfuls of fresh cream ; beat up 
two eggs very light, and mix them with the other 
ingredients ; add the grating of a nutmeg, season with 
a little pepper and salt. Butter the inside of a basin ; 
pour the pudding into the basin, bake it in the oven a 
light brown, turn it out on a dish ; serve exceedingly 
hot, with dry toast. 



1 



i62 Savouries. 



Canapees of Anchovy. 

Toast or fry some squares of bread, butter them 
slightly, and spread with anchovy paste. Cut up 
small some lettuces or mustard and cress, boil two eggs 
hard, pass the yolks through a wire sieve, chop up 
small the whites and put them upon the toast. Make 
them all diflferent by putting a little yolk, then the 
cress, and then the chopped whites by the side of 
each other in strips, and dish thetn on a napkin and 
serve them cold. 

Cream Cheese Fritters. 

Whisk a quarter of a pint of cream, add the yolks of 
four eggs previously well beaten, six ounces of grated 
parmesan cheese, a pinch of sugar and cayenne pepper. 
Mix well together, and put the mixture into patty- 
pans and steam for ten minutes. Turn them out of 
the pans, and cut them out with a roimd cutter ; then 
egg and bread-crumb them, and fry in hot lard to a 
pale brown colour. Then dish them on a napkin and 

serve hot. 

Macaroni Cheese. 

Soak six ounces of macaroni in cold water for one 
hour ; pour off the water and boil it in a quart and a- 
half of sweet milk, sth* it occasionally to prevent the 
milk from burning. When the macaroni is very soft 
and milky, mix in lightly three ounces of mild cheese ; 
spread it on a flat dish, and sprinkle brown bread- 
crumbs over the top ; brown it with a hot salamander 
or before a clear fire, and serve it very hot to be eateu 
with mustard. 



Savouries. 163 



Clieese Souflle. 

Take four ounces of flour and mix it with half a 
pint of new milk, add three ounces of fresh butter ; 
boil it in a stew-pan, stirring all the time ; when it 
has boiled about three minutes, and is quite thick, re- 
move it from the fire ; beat up four eggs, yolks and 
whites separately, mix in the yolks with the latter, and 
three ounces of grated parmesan cheese ; then mix in 
the whites of eggs ; the eggs must be very well beaten 
so as to make the soufile light. When all the in- 
gredients are mixed together, pour into a well-buttered 
souffle dish. Put it in a brisk oven and bake for about 
half-an-hour. It should rise very much and be nicely 
browned on the top, and sent to table the moment it 
is removed from the oven. 

Cheesy Ramakins. 

Mix three ounces of flour with a breakfast-cupful of 
sweet milk and two ounces of fresh butter. Stir all 
together and boil for a few minutes. Take the pan from 
the fire and mix in lightly the yolks of three eggs, pre- 
viously well beaten ; then mix in two ounces of grated 
parmesan cheese, and a very little pepper and salt. Have 
the three whites of eggs whipped to a snow, and mix in 
lightly with the other ingredients. Have some paper 
ramakin cases in readiness on a baking sheet ; fill them 
three parts full with the mixture. Put the bakiag 
sheet in a brisk oven; bake them from ten to fifteen 
minutes. They should be well risen and nicely browned 
on the top. Dish them on a napkin and send them to 
table the moment they are removed from the oven. 



1 64 Savouries. 



Cheese Fritters. 

Beat up the whites of two eggs on a dinner plate, 
until they are very light and firm. Take two ounces of 
grated parmesan cheese ; add a pinch of cayenne pepper, 
a very little salt, and a little grated nutmeg; mix all 
up slightly with a knife, and roll it together. Divide 
it into pieces the size of a nutmeg ; roll each piece into 
a' ball, and place them in a pan of hot lard or fat. 
Keep moving them about for a few minutes. When 
brown and well risen, dish them on a napkin. 

Cheese Straws. 

Take six ounces of flour, four ounces of butter, two 
ounces of cream, three ounces of grated parmesan cheese^ 
the smallest grating of nutmeg, two grains of cayenne, 
a little salt and white pepper ; mix and roll it out, and 
cut it in strips the thickness of a straw. They must 
be baked in a moderate oven, and should be quite crisp 
and of a pale colour. Serve very hot. 

Very Rich Cheese Straws. 

Take three ounces of flour, two ounces of butter, 
one ounce of cream, one ounce and a-half of grated 
parmesan cheese, one grain of cayenne, a little white 
pepper, and a little table salt ; mix all together ; roll it 
out and cut the straws. Bake them quite crisp and of 
a nice brown colour, and dish them hot on a napkin. 

Cauliflowers, with Parmesan Cheese. 

Boil and drain two or three cauliflowers, and keep 
them hot. Put a spoonful of white sauce into a stew- 
pan, with three ounces of parmesan cheese, one ounce 



Savouries. 165 



of fresh butter, the yolks of three eggs, a small piece 
of glaze, some lemon juice, nutmeg, and pepper and 
salt. Stir it over the fire until well mixed, without 
boiling. Pour it over the cauliflowers, and cover with 
bread-crumbs and grated parmesan cheese. Place 
them in the oven for about a quarter of an hour. When 
they are a nice yellow colour dish them, and garnish 
round with toasted bread cut in small diamonds. 

Large Truffles. 

Cleanse the truffles by brushing in water. Drain 
and place them in a stew-pan; pour some Italian 
sauce on them; place some pieces of bacon on the 
top, and set them to boil on a slow fire for about 
three-quarters of an hour. Then dish them on a folded 
napkin. Send sauce separately in a sauce-boat. Mix 
a gill of the finest salad oil with a table-spoonful of 
chopped parsley, the juice of a lemon, pepper and salt, 
and two table-spoonfuls of the sauce that the truffles 
were boiled in, skimmed and boiled down to half glaze. 

Souffle Potatoes. 

Take six or more potatoes of a size ; wash them 
with a brush in cold water, and dry them with a cloth. 
Bake them in the oven until they are quite soft. Cut 
a small piece off the tops of the potatoes, and with a 
teaspoon scoop out all the inside of the potatoes, 
leaving the skin quite whole. Put the pulp into a 
"pan with a piece of butter, a little cream, and pepper 
and salt. Beat well with a fork ; fill the skins ; put 
the tops on ; and put them back in the oven for ten 
minutes. Then dish them on a napkin, and serve hot. 

M 



PUDDINGS. 



Paradise Pudding. 

Six ounces chopped beef suet, six ounces sultana 
raisins, chopped with six ounces of apples, six ounces 
of bread-crumbs, the grating of a lemon and juice, 
three eggs well whipped and mixed with the other 
ingredients, with six ounces of sugar. Butter the 
inside of a pudding mould ; put the mixture into the 
mould; cover the top of it with a piece of cloth or 
paper ; put it into a pan with boiling water, and steam 
it for four hours. Take care that the water does not 
boil into the pudding. When done, turn it out on its 
dish and pour wine sauce round it, and serve hot. 

Pompelian Pudding. 

Put into a pan the yolks of four eggs, one ounce 
fresh butter, two ounces pounded sugar, the rind and 
juice of two lemons; stir it over the fire until dissolved 
and thick ; it must not boil ; then beat up the whites 
very stiff, and add to the other ingredients; then 
Bteam for half an hour; the water must be boiling 
before the pudding is put in, but not on any account 
to boil after it is put into the pan to steam; serve with 
apple jelly round it. 



Puddings. 167 



Fig Pudding. 

Mince very finely fourteen figs, half a pound of 
minced beef suet, a breakfast-cupful of bread-crumbs, 
a quarter pound sugar, a little grated nutmeg, and 
three eggs well beaten ; mix all together; steam three 
hours ; serve with wine sauce. 

Northumberland Pudding. 

To three eggs, add their weight in fiour, butter, and 
sugar ; beat the butter and sugar together to a cream ; 
then add the eggs, one at a time, and beat five minutes 
between each egg; then mix in, lightly, the flour, and 
two table-spoonfuls of brandy, and half a pint of sweet 
cream; then butter the inside of a mould, drudge it 
with pounded sugar, and ornament with dried cherries 
and angelica cut in leaves ; pour in the pudding, and 
tie a cloth over the top of the mould ; put it into a 
pan with boiling water, taking care that the water 
does not boil into the pudding; boil it for one hour 
and serve with a custard, or wine sauce. 

Eve's Pudding. 

Peel and core six good large apples, and mince 
them; add six ounces of grated bread, six ounces of 
currants, well washed, six ounces of sugar, a little salt 
and grated nutmeg, the juice and grated rind of half a 
lemon; beat up five eggs very light, and mix them 
with the other ingredients, and put it into a butter 
mould, and boil it for three hours, and pour brandy or 
wine sauce over the pudding, and serve hot. 



1 68 Puddings. 



Prince of Wales' Pudding. 

One pound of apples stewed with a little sugar and 
rubbed through a sieve. A quarter pound of fresh 
butter, and a quarter pound of pounded sugar, beat to- 
gether to a cream. Take four eggs, separate the whites 
from the yolks ; beat both separately till very light, mix 
one table-spoonful of flour with three of cream, the 
grating and juice of one lemon, mix all the ingredients 
together. The whites of eggs must be added last. Have 
a pudding dish lined with puff paste ; pour the pudding' 
into the dish, and bake in a moderate oven for half art 
hour or a little longer. The pudding should be well 
risen, and nicely browned on the top. 

Russian Pudding. 

Six ounces of sugar and a quarter of a pound of fresh 

butter, and a small glassful of sherry wine. Boil in a. 

small sauta-pan for one minute; take four eggs and 

separate the whites from the yolks, beat both till lights 

Mix in the yolks with the other ingredients, and then 

the whites; line the baking dish with a thin paste^ 

spread it all over with orange marmalade. Bake it in 

a slow oven for about three-quarters of an hour, serve 

hot. 

. Spanish Pudding. 

Put three table-spoonfuls of ground rice, one pint of 
cream, one quarter pound of fresh butter, into a stew- 
pan, boil all these ingredients on the fire, then take off. 
When cool add the yolks of five eggs previously well 
beaten, and a quarter pound of pounded sugar ; beat the 
five whites of eggs to a snow, and add to the other 



Puddings. 1 69 



ingredients. Butter ithe dish and pour in the pudding, 
and bake it for nearly an hour, then remove it from 
the oven, turn it upside down on the dish with black 
currant jam under it. Cover the top with apricot jam. 
Care must be taken to bake the pudding light brown, 
to be eaten hot or cold as preferred. 

Raspin Pudding. 

Line a mould with puff paste, put a layer of apricot 
jam in the bottom, and fill it with a rich custard. Bake 
an hour in a moderate oven; turn it out on a dish, 
«auce it over with dilated apricot jam, serve it hot. 

Cups Pudding. 

Add one cupful of bread crumbs to one of flour, the 

same of suet, sugar and rasp jam, an egg, &c., a little 

salt, one teaspoonful of carbonate of soda. Steam for 

two hours. If the jam is dry, moisten with a little 

milk, use a little melted jelly as the sauce, and serve 

hot. 

Cocoa-nut Pudding. 

Beat four ounces of sugar with two ounces of butter 
to a cream, add the yolks of five eggs, one at a time ; 
beat five minutes between each yolk, have one break- 
fast-cupful of grated bread soaked in half-a-pint of 
boiling milk, grate the third part of a cocoa-nut, add 
it to the other ingredients, season with one glassful of 
brandy and the juice of half a lemon ; then mix in the 
five whites of eggs, previously beaten to a snow ; pour 
the pudding into a buttered mould, and steam it for 
two hours ; mix a teaspoonful of arrow-root with the 



1 70 Puddings. 



milk of the nut, add a little sugar, and three drops of 
cochineal ; boil it for a few minutes, stirring all the 
time ; season with a glassful of sherry wine ; pour th& 
sauce round the pudding when dished, and serve hot. 

Chestnut Pudding. 
Peel and boil until tender forty chestnuts, rub 
them through a sieve, and place in a stew-pan with a 
pint of cream, a quarter of a pound of butter, a quarter 
of a poimd of sugar, a few drops of vanilla, and a pinch 
of salt. Stir this over the fire until it thickens and 
detaches from the sides ; remove from the fire and add 
eight yolks and the whites of six eggs ; beat to a snow^ 
mix the whole well together, put it into a mould and 
steam for one hour and a half ; serve with Eva's sauce. 

Sauce for above. 
Put half-a-pint of cream and two glassfuls of maras- 
chino into a pan, place it on the stove ; when it has 
oome to the boil, thicken with a little arrow-root; boil 
for a few minutes, and pour round the pudding. 

Caramel Pudding. 

Put about half a pound of lump Sugar into a pan,, 
add as much cold water as will barely cover it ; boil 
on the fire until it is reduced to half its first quantity ;. 
pour it into a pudding mould, and let the mould be 
thinly coated with it. Make a custard of ten yolks of 
eggs and one pint of cream, flavoured with a glassful oF 
rum, and sweetened to taste; pour the custard into 
the mould, put it into a pan with boiling water to steam 
for about forty minutes. 



Puddings. 171 



Carrot Pudding. 

Boil two ordinary-sized carrots* When cold, grate 
them; add half a pound of currants, five ounces 
minced suet, three tablespoonfuls of flour, one table- 
spoonful of sugar. Boil in a shape for three hours. 

Serve hot. 

Marmalade Pudding. 

Mince very finely four ounces of beef suet; add 
fear ounces of bread-crumbs, four ounces of sugar, and 
four ounces of marmalade. Beat up foiu" eggs very 
Jght ; mix them vrith the other ingredients. Butter a 
mould slightly ; ornament it with raisins ; pour the 
pudding into the mould, and steam it for two hours. 
When dished, pour a little marmalade, mixed with 
sherry wine, round it for sauce. Serve hot. 

Lemon Pudding. 

Add half a poxmd of bread-crumbs to half a pound 
of chopped beef suet, a quarter pound of sugar, the 
juice and grating of a large lemon, and a pinch of salt. 
Beat up three eggs very light ; mix with the other in- 
gredients. Steam for two hours. Serve with wine sauce. 

Wine Sauce for above. 

Beat the yolk of an egg with a spoonful of sugar ; 
add one ounce of fresh butter, and a teacupful of water. 
Put it into a sauce-pan and stir it till it boils, and add 
a glassful of sherry wine. 

Lemon Pudding, Baked. 

Put the rind and juice of three lemons into a basin, 
with four ounces of sugar, and four oimces of bruised 



172 Puddings. 



ratafia biscuits. Beat the whites and yolks of six eggs 
separately ; beat the yolks with the other ingredients 
for five minutes ; then mix in half a pint of cream and 
the whites of eggs. Pour the mixture into a pie-dish 
lined with puff'-paste. Bake in an oven for twenty 
minutes or half an hour. 

Orange Tart. 

Weigh two large oranges ; boil them in water for 
half an hour. Put the juice and pulp of the fruit in % 
basin, with double their weight of sugar, and a piece 01 
fresh butter the size of a walnut, and beat all together. 
Line a very shallow dish with thin paste. Put in the 
mixtures, and cover the top with whites of eggs, 
beaten with a little sugar ; then bake it. 

Mince Pies. 

Mince one pound of beef suet very fine, and one 
pound of tender beef, one pound of stoned raisins 
minced with one pound of peeled apples, one pound of 
currants, half a pound of sugar, one teaspoonful of salt, 
a little pounded ginger and cinnamon, and a teaspoon- 
ful of mixed spices; mix all these ingredients together, 
and put them into a stone jar; pour half a pint of 
brandy over it; tie it up closely with a piece of 
bladder; the mince may be used immediately, but it 
is much improved by keeping it for some weeks. 
When the pies are to be made, have a puff paste 
ready; roll it out to about an inch larger than the 
dish, and half an inch thick ; cover a flat dish with 
paste; brush the edge with ^^g'^ fill the dish with 



Puddings. 173 



minced meat ; then cover it over with paste ; press the 
edges together, and notch it round with a knife ; make 
incisions on the top, to let the meat appear; brush 
over the top with egg ; bake in a quick oven for half 
an hour ; serve very hot. 

Small mince pies are made in patty-pans the same 
way as above. Twenty minutes will take them in a 
quick oven. Dish them on a napkin, and serve hot. 

Plum Pudding. 
Mince one pound of beef suet ; stone three-quarters 
of a pound of raisins ; wash and dry the same quantity 
of currants ; to these add one pound of bread-crumbs, 
and six ounces of flour, half a pound of moist sugar, a 
teaspoonful of ground ginger, and one of cinnamon, 
and two ounces of orange peel minced, and a teaspoon- 
ful of salt ; mix all these ingredients together, and put 
them into a basin ; add five eggs well beaten, half a 
pint of milk, a glassful of brandy, and the grated rind 
and juice of half a lemon ; mix thoroughly, and boil 
the pudding, either in a cloth or in a basin, for five or 
six hours. When dished, make an incision on the top 
with a knife ; pour a glassful of brandy over it ; dip a 
spoon in the brandy, hold it to a burning candle, touch 
the pudding with it^ and send to table burning, if liked, 
or serve with brandy sauce. 

Sauce for above. 

Mix a table-spoonful of arrow-root with half a pint of 
water, two spoonfuls of sugar, a glass of brandy, about 
four drops of cochineal ; stir this quickly over the fire 
until it boils, and pour round the pudding. 



1 74 Puddings. 



Cabinet Pudding. 

Butter the inside of a mould slightly, ornament the 
bottom and sides with dried cherries or raisins. Fill 
the mould with cut sponge-cakes, and ratafia biscuits. 
Then fill up the mould with a cold custard, made with 
six eggs, and a pint of boiled milk, with five ounces of 
sugar, a glassful of brandy, and a little lemon juice, all 
mixed together. Steam the pudding for an hour, and 
serve with wine sauce. 

College Puddings. 

Put sugar and butter, to the weight of two eggs, 
into a basin. Beat it to a cream, drop in the eggs 
one at a time. Beat five minutes between each. 
Mix in the same weight of flour, a few currants, and a 
table-spoonful of sherry wine. Butter the insides of 
small pans and dust them with pounded sugar. Fill 
them three parts full. Place them upon a baking sheet, 
and put them in the oven to bake for twenty minutes 
or half an hour. When done, dish them and pour wine 
sauce round them. 

Note. — These puddings may be eaten cold. The 

mixture may be put in a basin and steamed instead of 

baked. 

Custard Pudding. 

Beat up six eggs with four ounces of sugar. Boil 
one pint of milk with a stick of cinnamon, or two bay 
leaves ; when it boils,remove thecinnamon or bay leaves, 
and pour the milk among the eggs, stirring them all the 
time. Butter the inside of a pudding-dish slightly, 
and pour in the custard. Bake for half an hour. 



Puddings. 1 75 



Sprinkle a little sugar over it, and serve hot. (This- 
padding may be steamed instead of baked, and served 
with wine sauce.) 

Bread and Butter Pudding. 

Out some slices of bread rather thin and butter 
them. Sprinkle slightly with sugar, and a few currants ;. 
cut each in four, and place them in a pudding dish.. 
When full, pour boiling milk over the bread, and cover 
with a plate. Then beat up two or more eggs, 
according to the size of the dish, put them over the 
bread, let it stand for ten minutes to allow the ^eggs. 
to mix with the bread. Then place it in the oven to 
bake for about half an hour. Serve hot with cream 
separately. 

La Perde Pudding. 

Cut two or three slices from a stale loaf; take oS 
the crusts ; place them singly on a flat deep dish ; 
pour boiling milk gently over them; cover the top 
with a dish. When the bread is well soaked with 
milk, it must be done on both sides with beaten egg,. 
and placed in a frying-pan with a piece of fresh butter 
made hot, and firied pale brown on both sides. Dish 
it on a napkin. Sprinkle it with sugar, and serve hot. 

Jam Roll. 

Mix one pound and a quarter of flour with half a. 
pound of chopped suet, a little salt, and one egg, and 
about half a pint of water. Boll the paste up into a 
ball ; then roll it out with a rolling-pin, the same as. 



1 76 Puddings. 



puflf-paste. It must be made square, and about a 
-quarter of an inch thick. Take black currant or rasp- 
berry jam, and spread all over it, without allowing it 
to reach the edges of the paste. Then roll it up so as 
to fold the jam inside. Wet the ends of the pudding 
^nd press them together. Grease a cloth with butter ; 
dust it with flour ; and roll the pudding into it ; tie the 
ends with string. Put it in boiling water. Boil for 
two hours, and serve with cream. 

German Puffs. 

Beat two ounces of butter, with two of sugar, to a 
•cream ; add the yolks of two eggs, and beat for five 
minutes. Mix two spoonfuls of flour, two ounces of 
pounded almonds, half a pint of cream, one teaspoon- 
ful of orange flower water, the whites of two eggs 
beat to a snow. Mix with the other ingredients. Bake 
them in small mince-pie pans ; butter the pans well 
and fill them half full. Half an hour in a slow oven 
will bake them. Serve very hot with wine sauce. 

Duchess Loaves. 

Put half a pint of milk into a stew-pan, with five 
-ounces of flour, four ounces of butter, two ounces of 
sugar, two ounces of chopped almonds, a little orange 
or lemon juice. Place the pan on the fire, and stir it 
until it boils for about three minutes. Mix in three 
•eggs, one at a time. Divide the mixtm*e into small 
round balls the size of a pigeon's egg ; place them on 
a baking sheet spread with butter, and bake of a 
light brown colour. When cold make an incision down. 



Puddings. 177 



the sides and fill the loaves with apricot jam. Then 
dish them up on a napkin and serve. ' t 

Cheese-Cakes. 

Beat six ounces of sugar with two ounces of butter ; 
add four yolks of eggs, one at a time, and beat till 
light ; add the grated rind of two lemons or oranges 
and a little salt. Mix eight ounces of pressed curd 
with two ounces of ratafia biscuits, crtished ; mix in 
lightly four whites of eggs, previously well beaten. 
Next, line two dozen or more tartlet pans with pufi:' 
paste ; put a little of the mixture on the paste ; 
place a strip of candied lemon-peel on the top of 
each. Put them on a baking sheet, and place them 
in the oven, at moderate heat. Bake of a light brown 
colour. When done, shake a little sugar over them. 
Dish them on a napkin, and serve hot. 

Almond Cheese-Cakes. 

Line about a dozen and a-half of tartlet pans with 
puflF paste. Skin and pound four ounces of sweet 
almonds and one ounce of bitter, with five ounces of 
white sugar, passed through a fijie wire-sieve. Beat 
the whites of four eggs to a snow ; mix the almonds 
and sugar lightly with the whites of eggs ; add one 
teaspoonful of cold water. Fill the centre of the tartlet 
pans three parts fiiU ; place them on a baking sheet ; 
put them in the oven, at moderate heat. Bake for 
about half-an-hour. Dish on a napkin, and serve 
cold. 



1 78 Puddings. 



Conservative Pudding. 

Ornament a pudding mould with preserved fruit ; 
then line the mould with thin slices of sponge-cake ; 
put a layer of fruit between each layer of cake imtil 
the mould is half-full ; then fill it up with custard, and 
eteam it for three-quarters of an hour. Serve with 
whip sauce. 

Whip Sauce for above. 

Put two yolks of eggs into a small pan; add an 
ounce and a-half of white sugar, a glass of sherry, tiie 
rind and juice of half a lemon. Mix with a whisk on 
the stove until it thickens. When about the thick- 
ness of cream, pour it round the pudding and serve. 

Transparent Pudding. 

Put one pint of good milk into a stew-pan with 
three ounces of sugar ; mix two spoonfuls of fine flour 
with one spoonful of arrowroot ; mix with a little of 
the milk and pour it into the pan. Set it on the stove 
and stir it until it boils for about eight minutes ; allow 
it to cool a little ; flavour slightly with ratafia. Add 
the yolks of three eggs, well beaten, also the beaten 
whites; pour it into a mould, steam half-an-hour. 
Serve with wine sauce. 

Potato Pudding. 

Boil and skin two pounds of potatoes ; pass them 
through a fine wire sieve ; add six ounces of suet, 
finely minced, two table-spoonfuls of flour, six ounces of 
sugar, two ounces of lemon-peel, minced fine, four eggs. 



Puddings. 1 79 



well beaten ; mix all together ; season with a glass of 
brandy, and bake in a quick oven. Serve hot. 

Tapioca Pudding. 

Put half-a-pound of tapioca into a stew-pan, with a 
quart of milk, a quarter pound of sugar, one ounce of 
butter, a pinch of salt, and a Kttle grated lemon-peel ; 
stir over the fire until it boils. When it has boiled 
about half-an-hour, remove the pan from the fire, and 
allow it to cool a little. Beat up four eggs ; mix with 
the tapioca, and bake for half-an-hour in a pie-dish. 

Pancakes. 

Beat up three eggs ; mix three table-spoonfuls of 

flour with half a tea-cupful of milk ; add to the eggs 

with a spoonful of sugar and a little salt. Then pour 

in half-a-pint of milk, and mix all well together. Put 

a bit of butter into a small fi:ying-pan. Fill a small 

cup with the batter ; pour it into the frying-pan ; hold 

the pan over the fire until it fastens ; turn it over and 

sprinkle with a little sugar. Roll it up, and place it 

upon a hot dish before the fire ; then put a bit of butter 

in the frying-pan ; stir the batter, and pour a little of 

it into the pan, and go on till all the pancakes have 

been made. Dish them neatly, lengthways, upon the 

dish; sprinkle pounded sugar over them, and serve 

hot. 

Sweet Omelette. 

Take four fresh eggs ; separate the yolks from the 
whites. Beat the yolks in a basin, with an ounce of 
pounded .sugar, till very .light; beat, the whites to a 



1 80 Puddings. 



snow on a dinner plate ; mix lightly with the yolks. 
Heat about two ounces of fresh butter in an omelette- 
pan. Pour the omelette into the pan, and hold it over 
a clear fire until it fastens. Then hold the pan before 
the fire until it is well risen, and slightly browned on 
the top. Turn it out of the pan on to a hot dish, with 
a folded napkin imder it. Double it over like a 
closed book. Spread raspberry jam between the folds. 
Then sprinkle it with pounded sugar, and serve hot 
with cream. 

Semolina Pudding. 

Add four ounces of semolina to a pint of milk, and 
boil till it thickens. Allow it to cool a little; add 
three eggs, sugar, and flavouring to taste ; then bake 
or boil it. 

Louis Phillipe's Pudding. 

Take six or eight apples all of the same size ; pare 
them nice and round; scoop out the cores without 
breaking the apples. Put a piece of whole cinnamon 
in the centre of each apple. Take a flat-bottomed 
basin that will hold the apples; place them in the 
basin; pour a teaspoonful of brandy over each one. 
Put a piece of paper over the top of the basin, and set 
it in a pan with boiling water to steam. When they 
are soft, but not broken, remove the cinnamon, and put 
a teaspoonful of orange marmalade in the centre of 
each apple. When dishing, pile them up in the centre ; 
whip up about half a pint of cream; season it slightly 
with a few drops of ratafia and a little pounded sugar ; 
put it over the apples. They must be entirely covered 



Puddings. i8i 



with the creanu Sprinkle the top with bruised ratafia 
biscuits. Mince some orange or claret jelly; put it 
round the base, and serve cold. 

Crystal Palace Pudding. 

Mix a dessert-spoonful of Poison's com flour with 
a teacupful of new milk, and half an ounce of isinglasft 
previously soaked with the milk; also half a pint of 
sweet cream, with sugar to taste. Boil all these in- 
gredients together for about ten minutes, stirring all 
the time. Take the pan off the fire, and stir in quickly 
the yolks of two eggs that have been well beaten* 
Stir until nearly cold. Pour the mixture into a tin 
mould that has been previously wet with cold 
water and ornamented with dried cherries and other 
sweetmeats, and serve cold, with a sauce of apricot 
jam and sherry wine, well mixed and pressed through a 

wire sieve. 

Pudding of Cream. 

Soak one ounce of gelatine in a teacupful of cold 
water for a quarter of an hour ; then put it into a small 
pan and stir it on the fire until it becomes quite liquid. 
Then stir it into a quart of cream sweetened with 
sugar and flavoured with a few drops of ratafia. Pour 
cream to the depth of an inch into a plain mould, and 
allow it to firm; then put stewed peaches, apricots^ 
cherries, or plums, in the middle of the mould. They 
must be kept in firom the edge, and piled up in the 
centre, and the creamy substance put around the sides. 
Fill the mould to the top and cover it all over with the 
cream. When set, turn out upon a dish and serve. 

N 



1 82 Puddings. 



Fruit Beverage. 

Take a little calf s foot, or wine jelly, and dissolve 
it a little. Put it into a plain shape to about the depth 
of an inch. Place the mould on ice; take ripe straw- 
berries or cherries, cut them in halves, and place them 
on the top of the jelly in the mould ; then pour in a 
little jelly, and allow it to firm. Dissolve some isin- 
glass, and mix it with as much cream as will fill up the 
shape. Flavour it with the juice of the fruit. Care 
must be taken that the cream is not too soft, as it 
might dissolve the jelly. When cold, turn out upon a 

dish. 

Strawberry SoufHa 

Remove the stalks from one pound of strawberries ; 
pound them in a mortar and pass them through a hair- 
sieve. Add pounded sugar to taste, and a tea-cupfiil 
of cream ; mix a table-spoonfiil of potato fecula with a 
gill of milk and two ounces of sugar ; stir it over the 
fire until it gets quite thick. Add the yolks of four 
eggs, previously well beaten, then the strawberry pulp ; 
stir it well off the fire until it is quite smooth ; then 
stir in quickly the whites of six eggs, previously 
whisked to a stiff froth ; then butter the inside of a 
plain mould slightly, and pour in the mixture. Put it 
into the oven at once, and bake for twenty minutes. 

Serve quickly. 

Potato Souffle. 

Mix a large spoonful of potato fecula and of pounded 
sugar with half a pint of new milk ; put it into a pan 
and stir it over the fire until it boils. Remove the 
pan from the fire and flavour the mixture with orange- 



Puddings. 183 



flower water, chocolate, or coffee ; beat up the yolks 
of six eggs with a little sugar ; add them to the mix- 
ture. Mix in lightly the beaten whites, and bake for 
half an hour. 

Fruit Souffle. 

Remove the stones from a dozen ripe peaches or 
apricots; put the fruit into a stew-pan with half a pound 
of sugar and a tea-cupfiil of *water; boil it over the fire 
until the fruit is dissolved, and then rub it through a 
sieve. Mix three ounces of potato fepula with half 
a pint of cream, and add it to the stewed fruit; 
mix the whole well together and boil it for a few 
minutes, stirring all the time. Remove the pan from 
the fire, and then work in five yolks of eggs, previously 
well beaten ; beat the whites to a snow, and mix them 
lightly with the other ingredients. Pour the mixture 
into a souffle-dish, and bake for about half an hour. 

Souffle of Oranges. 

Grate the rinds of two pounds of oranges in a basia; 
cut the oranges in halves, and press the juice through 
a sieve; mix it with the rind; add six ounces of 
pounded sugar. Beat up six yolks of eggs, and add 
it to the orange pulp ; mix two table-spoonfuls of flour 
with a tea-cupful of cream ; mix all these ingredients 
together. Then beat up the whites of six eggs, and 
mix up lightly with the other ingredients ; pour the 
mixture into a souffle-dish, and bake it in a sharp oven 
for about twenty minutes. It should be sent to table 
the moment it is removed from the oven. 



184 Puddings. 



Apple Charlotte. 

Line the bottom of a plain round mould with small, 
thin circular shapes of bread, stamped out with a tin 
cutter the size of a shilling. Dip these in clarified 
butter, and place them in circular order, overlaying 
each other until the bottom of the mould is completely 
covered. Next line the sides of the mould with thin 
oblong pieces of bread, cut an inch wide and the fourth 
of an inch thick, and of sufficient length for the depth 
of the mould. These must also be dipped in the butter 
before they are placed in the moulds. The mould 
must then be filled with well-reduced apple marmalade 
made as follows : — ^Peel, core, and slice about a dozen 
or more of apples ; put them in a pan with about a 
tea-cupfdl of cold water, ten oimces of sugar, half a 
stick of cinnamon, and a piece of lemon-peel. Place 
the lid on the pan, and set it on the stove or clear fire 
until the apples are dissolved and reduced to a thick 
substance, bearing in mind that it must be stirred con- 
stantly while on the fire, to prevent its burning. Then 
the mould must be filled with the marmalade, and 
covered on the top with a thin round piece of bread, 
made to fit the inner circle of the fingers of bread. 
Then place the mould on a baking sheet, and set it in 
a brisk oven to be baked of a light brown colour ; and 
when turned out on its dish, pom: some diluted apricot 
jam round the base, and serve hot, with cream separ- 
ately. 

Apple Fritters. 

Cut soft apples in thick slices ; scoop out the cores 
with a tin cutter ; then pare off the rind, and place the 



Puddings. 185 



pieces of apples in a basin; add a small glassful of 
brandy and a spoonful of sugar, and let them steep in 
this for an hour. Next make a frying batter of half a 
pound of flour, a table-spoonful of salad oil, a pinch of 
salt, and two yolks of eggs. Mix these together with 
a wooden spoon until it presents a. smooth, creamy 
appearance, pouring in at intervals about half a pint 
of tepid water. It must then be set aside for about 
an hour or so ; and when about to use it add lightly 
three whites of eggs, previously whisked into a firm 
froth. Next dip the pieces of apple in the batter, and 
drop them gently one by one into a pan with hot 
lard; turn them over in this lightly with a fork; 
and when fried light brown remove them from the pan 
on to a dish covered with paper. Allow them to drain 
before the fire for a few minutes. Then dish them on 
a napkin. Sprinkle them over with poxmded sugar, 
and serve hot. 

Orange Fritters. 

Skin the oranges, and cut them in quarters ; use a 
sharp knife to pick out the septa and pips. Steep the 
pieces of orange in a glassful of brandy and a spoonful 
of sugar for an hour ; and when about to fry them, dip 
them separately in batter, and fry them in the usual 
way, the same as apples. 

Apple Shape. 

Take some firm, green apples ; pare and core them ; 
throw them into cold water as they are done ; then put 
them to boil in a copper pan, with just as much water 
as keep them from burning. When tender, pass them 



1 86 Puddings. 



through a fine wire sieve. To every pound of apple 
add three-quarters of a pound of pounded white sugar. 
Return the apple pulp into the pan and boil it very 
quickly, stirring all the time. When done, put it into 
a mould. When cold, turn it out upon a dish, and 
serve with cream. 

Apple Tart 

Pare and core as many apples as will fill a pie-dish ; 
cut them in quarters and pack them in the dish closely, 
and add sugar ; heap the apples high in the centre of 
the dish, then add more sugar. Have a piece of paste 
ready, and, with a paste-brush, egg the edge of the 
dish. Set the pie-dish on the paste, and run the knife 
round the outside of the dish ; take it off, and cut a 
small bit of paste the breadth of the border of the pie- 
dish ; lay it round the edge of the dish, and brush it 
with egg. Then lay on the cover, press it roimd the 
edge on the border, and nick it round the edge with 
a knife; brush it over with egg, and dust it with 
pounded sugar ; bake in a moderate oven for about an 
hour. Serve hot or cold, as preferred. 

Shape of Rice. 

Boil two ounces of whole rice in one pint of sweet 
milk, until tender ; dissolve half an ounce of gelatine 
in half a pint of milk, and add it to the rice with three 
ounces of almonds skinned and chopped fine, two 
ounces of pounded sugar, and nine drops of vanilla. 
Mix all well together ; then add half a pint of cream, 
and stir the mixture till cold ; pour it in to a shape. 
When set, turn it out and serve with jam. 



Puddings. 187 



Shape of Sea Moss Farina* 

Mix two large tea-spoonfuls of the powder in half a 
pint of boiling milk ; stir it until smooth ; then put it 
into a pan with one EngUsh pint of new milk and an 
ounce of sugar, and slowly boil it, stirring all the time 
until quite melted. Then let it simmer by the fire 
tmtil it is like thick cream; then strain it through 
muslin into a basin. Beat two eggs and add them to 
the mixture; then put it all into the pan and just bring 
it to the boil, and put it into a shape. When cold, turn 
out and serve it with plum jam round the dish, and 
cream, separately. 

Devonshire Cream. 

Put new milk into a pan; let it stand for twelve 
hours ; then put it on a slow fire or stove, vnx the same 
pan in which it has stood. Let it heat slowly until one 
can just suffer the finger in it; let it then stand in a cool 
place for other twelve hours, after which skim it. 

Stevired Prunes. 

Put about a pound and a quarter of prunes into a 
pan, with about a quarter of a pound of lump sugar* 
Add as much cold water as nearly cover them. Place 
the pan on a slow fire or stove, and stew the prunes 
slowly until tender ; then remove the stones without 
breaking the fruit much. Place the prunes in a circle 
round the dish, the same as with cutlets. Break the 
stones, and pick out the kernels ; dip them in boiling 
water and skin them. Place a kernel upon each prune^ 
The juice of the fruit must be boiled down to a syrup- 



1 88 Puddings. 



Strain through muslin ; colour slightly with cochineal ; 

and pour it round the base. Whip up about half a 

pint of thick cream ; heap it up in spoonfuls in the 

centre of the dish. Sprinkle a little pink sugar over 

it, and serve. 

Shape of Rhubarb. 

Take some rhubarb, cut off the pink ends, and put 
them into a brass pan. For every pound of rhubarb 
add one pound of white sugar, and as much cold 
water as will cover the bottom of the pan. Place 
it on a slow fire or stove ; stir it until tender ; then rub 
it through a hair sieve. To every quart of prepared 
rhubarb add one ounce of dissolved gelatine, and mix 
thoroughly. Pour it into a casserole shape. When 
firm, turn it out on a dish, and place whipped cream in 
the centre. 

Shape of Green Gooseberries- 
Place some green gooseberries in a brass pan ; add 
their weight of sugar, and a little cold water. Boil 
them to a mash, and rub through a hair sieve. Add as 
much spinach juice as make it a nice green colour ; add 
one ounce of dissolved gelatine to a quart of the 
mixture. Pour it into a casserole shape. When turned 
out on its dish put whipped cream in the centre, and 
«prinkle over with pink sugar. 

Russian Charlotte. 

Take some finger biscuits; cut them with a tin 
cutter into shapes — diamonds or squares; line the 
bottom and sides of a plain mould with them. They 



Puddings. 1 89 



must fit closely to one another. Soak one ounce of 
gelatine in a quart of cold water ; add one pound of 
lump sugar, the rind and juice of four lemons, and the 
yolks of five eggs, all whisked up together. Put the 
mixture into a pan, and stir it over the fire until it is 
nearly boiling; then strain it through a hair sieve. 
Add a table-spoonful of brandy ; stir occasionally until 
cold, but not set. Put it gently into the mould that 
has been lined with the biscuits. When firm turn it 
out upon a dish. 

Devonshire Junket. 

Put about a quart of new milk into a pan, and 
make it luke-warm. Pour it into a dish ; add a table- 
spoonful of rennet and the same of brandy. When 
thick pour over it half a pint of cream and a little 
grated nutmug. 

General Satisfaction Pudding. 

Dissolve one ounce of butter in a stew-pan ; add two 
ounces of fiour, three of sugar, and half a pint of milk; 
then boil it in the pan until it becomes a thick paste. 
Mix in two ounces of chopped almonds, and the juice 
of half an orange or lemon ; add the yolks of four eggs, 
well beaten ; beat the whites to a snow, and mix them 
in lightly with the mixture. Line a pie-dish with puff 
paste ; spread some jam at the bottom ; then pour the 
mixture into the dish. Strew some chopped almonds 
on the top, and bake in the oven for about half an 
hour, or until it is well risen and of a nice brown colour. 
Serve either hot or cold. 



190 Puddings. 



Apple Marmalade. 

To a pint of water add twelve ounces of loaf-sugar ; 
boil till quite a syrup ; pare and core two pounds of 
apples ; add them to the syrup with the grated rind 
of a lemon ; boil all together till quite stiff and 
transparent. Just before it is sufficiently done, add 
the juice of a lemon ; boil and stir it over the fire until 
it is quite stiff, then pour it into a mould. When cold 
and firm, turn it out on to a dish. Blanch one ounce 
of sweet almonds ; cut them in thin chips like straws, 
and stick them all over the shape of apple marmalade. 
Pour custard round the base and serve. 

Meringues. 

Whisk the whites of nine very fresh eggs to a snow ; 
sprinkle over it an ounce of pounded sugar, and whisk 
a little longer until they are very light and firm ; then 
mix in lightly one poxmd of pounded white sugar. 
Take a baking sheet, and grease it very slightly with 
fresh butter, and dust it all over with sugar ; put this 
mixture into a bag and pipe, or paper coronet. Drop 
the meringues through it in the form of a twisted 
shelL When all the mixture has been formed into 
meringues, place them in a very slow oven, and bake 
to a light fawn colour. When done, they must be 
carefully removed off the sheet; the white part of 
the inside must be scooped out with a teaspoon, and 
then nicely smoothed over. They must then be placed 
on their sides on the baking-sheet, and put back 
again in the oven to dry. When about to send the 
meringues to table, whip up some thick cream. 



Puddings. 191 



season it with a Kttle pounded sugar and a few drops 

of the essence of vanilla, ratafia, or liqmur of any sort. 

Put a spoonful of this cream into each piece ; join two 

together; dish them up in a pyramid on a napkin, 

and serve. 

Icing for Cakes. 

Beat the whites of four eggs with one pound of 
icing sugar, a few drops of tartaric acid, and about the 
size of a pin's-head of indigo blue. Beat till very 
light ; then ice and ornament the cakes. 

Compote of Apples. 

Peel and scoop out the cores from about a dozen of 
apples. Place them in a stew-pan, and cover them 
with syrup ; add the juice and rind of a lemon, a stick 
of cinnamon, and six cloves. Then cover with paper, 
and simmer very gently until they are soft. Then 
remove them from the pan, and reduce the syrup to 
half its original quantity ; strain, and pour it over the 
apples. When about to dish the compote, place one 
in the centre, and surround it with the others. De- 
corate their surfaces with light designs cut out from 
preserved cucumbers or angelica, and bright jelly dis- 
solved and put into plates. When firm, cut out circular 
sheets and place one on each apple. 

Pears are used for making compotes. Follow, in 

all particulars, the directions for making compotes of 

apples. 

Syrup for Above. 

To three pounds of fine loaf sugar add a quart of 
cold water and the white of an egg. Whisk all together 



192 Puddings. 



iu a stew-pan, and set it to boil gently for about five 

minutes, adding occasionally a spoonful of cold water. 

Then strain it through a piece of linen into a basin for 

use. 

Compote of Apricots. 

Peel the apricots, and put them into a stew-pan with 
syrup ; simmer them about five minutes over the fire. 
Then drain them, and place them in a dish. Reduce 
the syrup, and pour it over the fruit. 

Compote of Chestnuts. 

Boil about forty chestnuts in a quart of milk, with 
half a pint of water. When tender, skin them and put 
them in a mortar. Put half a pound of white sugar 
into a small pan with a tea-cupful of water. Boil it till 
it pearls ; then pour it over the chestnuts in the mortar; 
pound them to a smooth paste. Pile up half a pint of 
whipped cream in the centre of a dish. Place a coarse 
wire sieve over the dish, and rub the pounded chestnuts 
through the sieve on to the cream, keeping it high in 
the centre. Boil three oranges in water for half an hour ; 
then put the rind, juice, and pulp into a pan ; add the 
same weight of sugar, with a spoonful of maraschino ; 
boil for ten minutes. When cold, put it round the 
chestnuts and serve. 

Compote of Cherries. 

Take large ripe cherries, all of the same size. Place 
them in a brass pan ; cover them with syrup, and 
simmer them about five minutes. The half of the 
stalks should be cut off When done, dish them with 



Puddings. 193 



their stalks upright. Reduce the syrup, and pour it 
round the cherries. Serve cold. 

Compote of Peaches. 

Divide the peaches in halves ; simmer them with a 
little syrup for about eight minutes ; then drain them, 
and place them in the centre of a dish. Cover with 
whipped cream. Eeduce the syrup with a little rasp- 
berry juice, and pour it round the base. 




J ELLI ES 



Calf's Feet Jelly. 

Clean and cut into pieces four calves' feet; put them 
to boil in a gallon of cold water ; boil gently for four 
or five hours, until the water is reduced to half its 
former quantity. Then strain the stock through a 
tammy or hair sieve into a basin, and, when it has 
become cold and set firm into a jelly, scrape off all the 
grease ; wash the surface of the stock with a little hot 
water, and dab it over with a clean cloth. Then put 
the stock into a brass pan with two pounds of lump- 
sugar, the juice and rinds of six lemons, half an ounce 
of whole cinnamon, twelve cloves, and twenty pepper- 
corns. Set the pan on the fire to dissolve the jelly, 
and then add the whites of six eggs, well whisked, 
with half a pint of water, and also the shells of eggs. 
Stir the jeUy until it boils; then add a pint of sherry 
wine ; allow it to boil again ; and then pour it into 
a jelly-bag, previously wrung out of boiling water. 
Place a basin under the jelly-stand to receive the 
jelly as it passes through the bag; return the jelly 
through the bag until it passes quite bright and clear. 
Then fill the shape, previously wet with cold water. 
When a shape is wanted, dip it in warm water, and 
turn it out on a silver or crystal dish. 



Jellies. 195 

When the jelly is required to be kept for a time, 
ox feet may be used instead of calves' feet, with the 
addition of a large glassful of brandy. Put it into 
bottles, and cork to exclude the air. 

Wine Jelly. 

Soak two ounces of gelatine in a pint of cold water 
for twenty minutes ; then put it into a brass pan ; add 
an English quart of boiling water, about ten ounces of 
lump sugar, the rind and juice of two lemons, eight 
cloves, twelve black pepper-corns, a stick of cinnamon 
broken into pieces, two eggs beaten with their shells and 
a tea-cupful of cold water. Mix all well together; place 
the pan on the stove or clear fire ; stir until it boils for 
about five minutes ; then add three-quarters of a pint 
of Madeira or sherry wine. Pour through a jelly-bag 
previously wrung out of boiling water. Return the 
jelly to the bag until it is quite clear and bright ; then 
pour it into shapes ; put them away in a cool place to 
firm. When wanted, dip the shape in tepid water and 
turn it out on its dish. 

Champagne Jelly. 

Soak one ounce of gelatine in half a pint of cold 
water for fifteen minutes; then add the juice of 
one lemon, two ounces of pounded sugar, and the 
white of an egg. Whisk all together over the fire 
until it boils. Add a spoonful of cold water ; set 
it by the side of the fire for about five minutes ; then 
strain it through a piece of thick muslin previously 
wrung out of -hot water. Put the gelatine into a basin ; 



196 y elites. 

pour a quart of champagne over the gelatine ; stir it 
well, and pour into a shape. When set firm, dip the 
shape in tepid water, and turn it out on its dish, and 
serve when wanted. 

Claret Jelly. 

Soak one ounce of gelatine in half a pint of claret 

for twenty minutes ; then put it into a brass pan, and 

add a quart of claret, one pound of white sugar, the 

rind and juice of one large lemon or two small 

ones, and a teaspoonful of red currant or raspberry 

jelly. Mix well together ; then set the pan on a slow 

fire, and stir the jelly until it is nearly boiling ; then 

strain through muslin into a basin, and stir it till 

nearly cold; then pour it into a mould. When set 

turn it out. 

Russian Jelly. 

The remainder of a broken shape of jelly will serve 
this purpose. Put the jelly in a basin ; place the basin 
in a pan of hot water. When the jelly is dissolved, 
pour some of it into a mould, and allow it to firm. 
Whip up the remainder of it into a white fi:oth, and 
put all into a mould. When set firm turn it out upon 
a dish, and serve. 

Maraschino Jelly. 

To one pint of clarified syrup add a wine-glassful of 
maraschino, two ounces of clarified gelatine, and the 
juice of a lemon. Mix all together and pour into a 
jelly mould. Set on ice or in a cool place to firm. When 
wanted turn it out upon a dish, and serve. 



y elites. 197 

To Clarify Gelatine. 

Soak one ounce of gelatine in one pint of cold water 
for fifteen minutes ; then pour it into a pan, and add 
the juice of half a lemon, and about half an ounce of 
white sugar. Stir it all together, and boil for about 
twenty minutes. Remove the scum as it rises, and 
strain it through mush'n, previously wrung out of hot 
water. It is then ready for use. 

Rum Jelly. 

Soak three ounces of gelatine in a pint of cold 
water ; add half a pound of sugar, the rind and juice of 
three lemons, half a stick of cinnamon, eight cloves,, 
ten pepper corns, a little grated nutmeg, and a gill and 
a half of rum. Whisk all well together. Pour it inta 
a brass pan, and stir it over the fire until it boils. 
Allow it to boil gently for a few minutes ; pour the 
jelly through the bag several times until it runs 
bright. When all has run through, add a glassful of 
brandy, and pour the jelly into moulds. Set them on 
rough ice or in a cold place to firm. 

Clear Orange Jelly. 

Soak one ounce of gelatine in an English pint of 

cold water; add the juice of eight sweet oranges, half 

a pound of lump sugar, the whites and shells of three 

eggs. Whisk all well together in a brass pan, and stir 

it on the fire until it boils for a few minutes; then 

pour it through a jelly bag ; return it to the bag until 

it runs perfectly clear. Pour it into a mould, and when 

set, turn it out upon its dish. . 

o 



198 Jellies. 

TmoE Oranqe Jelly is prepared in the same 

manner, but without the use of eggs, and when the 

oranges are very sweet, a few bitter oranges may be 

used. 

Oranges filled with Jelly. 

Cut the oranges in halves, and then with the handle 
of a teaspoon work out all the juice and fibres of the 
fruit ; then soak the skins in cold water for an hour. 
Drain them upside down upon a sieve. Pound some 
rough ice, and place it in a deep dish, and arrange the 
skins upon it, taking care to stop up any hole with bits 
of butter. Fill one half of the skins with jelly, coloured 
pale pink, with two or three drops of cochineal, and the 
remainder with white. When the jelly is set firm in the 
oranges, they must be wiped with a napkin. Cut them 
in quarters with a sharp knife, and build them up on a 
silver or crystal dish, with small geranium leaves 
between each quarter. The juice and pulp of the fruit 
may be used for the jelly. 

Lemon Jelly. 

Soak two ounces of gelatine in half a pint of cold 
water for fifteen minutes; then pour in one pint of 
boiling water, and put it into a brass pan ; add half a 
pound of lump sugar, the rind and juice of four lemons, 
the whites of three eggs whipped with a gill of cold 
water. Mix all together, and whisk the jelly on the fire 
until it boils about three minutes. Then pour it 
through the jelly-bag, and when it runs clear, pour it 
into a mould, and set it on rough ice or in a cool place 
to firm. 



Jellies. 199 

Cherry Jelly. 
Pound in a mortar two pounds of ripe cherries, with 
one pound of red currants. Add half a pint syrup, and 
strain it through thick muslin, then add one ounce of 
prepared gelatine. Mix all well together, and pour it 
into a mould ; when set turn out on a dish. 

Strawberry Jelly. 

Put one pint of strawberry juice into a brass pan 
with one pint of cold water, one wine-glassful of rasp- 
berry juice, three-quarters of a pound of sugar, the 
juice of a lemon, and one ounce of prepared gelatine. 
Mix all together. Stir it on the fire until it boils ; then 
pour it through a jelly bag, and put it into a mould. 
When set turn it out. 

Grape Jelly. 

Pound two pounds of ripe grapes in a mortar, add 
the juice of two lemons, then strain it through a flannel 
bag, and mix with one pint of syrup and one ounce of 
prepared gelatine, and pour into a mould. When set 
turn it out. Peach and apricot jelly is made in the 
same manner, without the use of lemons. 

Lemon Sponge. 

Soak one ounce of gelatine in half a pint of cold 
water for fifteen minutes, then add a pint of boiling 
water. When cool, add half a pound of sugar, the juice 
of three lemons, and the whites of two eggs. Whisk 
it for half an hour ; pour it into a shape. When dished, 
pour custard round it. 




CREAMS. 



Velvet Cream. 

Season a pint and a half of sweet cream with 

pounded sugar to taste; then add a wine-glassfiil of 

maraschino or mm ; or, season with a few drops of the 

essence of vanilla. Mix in one ounce of dissolved 

gelatine. Stir the cream all the time. Then pour it 

into a mould previously wet with cold water. Set it in 

a cool place to firm. When wanted, turn it out upon 

a dish. 

Peach Cream. 

Skin and extract the stones from about a dozen ripe 
peaches. To these add half a pound of white sugar, 
and half a pint of cold water. Stew the whole on the 
fire until the fruit is entirely dissolved, and then rub 
this pulp through a hair sieve into a basin. Add a pint 
of whipped cream, two ounces of dissolved gelatine, 
and a few drops of cochineal. Mix all well together, 
and pour the mixture into a mould that has been pre- 
viously wet with cold water. When firm, turn it out 

upon its dish. 

Apricot Cream. 

Skin and extract the stones from about a dozen ripe 
apricots. Crack the stones, extract their kernels, and 



Creams. 201 

put them with the apricots in a pan, with six ounces of 
white sugar, and half a pint of water. Stir them on 
the fire until the fruit is dissolved. Eub through a hair 
sieve into a basin; add a pint of whipped cream, and 
two ounces of dissolved gelatine. 

Raspberry Cream. 

Put about a pint of raspberries into a basin; add six 
ounces of pounded sugar, and a few drops of cochineal, 
then rub through a hair sieve into a basin ; add a pint 
of whipped cream and two ounces of dissolved gelatine. 
Mix it well, and pour it into a mould. Set it away upon 
ice or in a cool place to firm. When wanted, turn out 
and serve. 

Strawberry Cream is made the same as above, by 
substituting strawberries for raspberries ; and when 
fresh fruits cannot be had, diluted jam may be used 
instead. 

Orange Cream. 

Boil three sweet oranges in water for one hour. Cut 
them in halves, and pass the juice and pulp through 
a very clean hair sieve; add about half a pound of 
pounded white sugar ; beat up the yolks of three eggs, 
and add to the orange pulp, with one table-spoonful of 
brandy. Boil one pint of cream, and pour it over the 
other ingredients. Stir the mixture all the time. Then 
add one ounce of dissolved gelatine, and stir till nearly 
cold. Then pour the mixture into a mould, and put 
away in a cool place to firm. When wanted, turn 
it out. 



202 Creams. 

Coffee Cream. 

Put about a breakfast-cupful of strong coffee into a 
pan with half a pint of boiled cream and half a pound 
of sugar. Beat up the yolks of six eggs ; to these add 
a pinch of salt ; whisk the whole well together. Place 
the pan on the stove over a slow fire ; keep stirring 
till it thickens and is nearly boiling, pass it through 
a hair sieve into a basin ; then add an ounce of 
dissolved gelatine, and stir until it is nearly cold. 
Pour it into a mould, and, when set firm, turn it out. 

Chocolate Cream. 

Grate three ounces of chocolate, and put it into a 

stew-pan with half a pint of new milk and about three 

ounces of sugar ; stir it over the fire until it boils, and 

pour it over the yolks of three eggs, previously well 

beaten; strain it through a hair sieve into a basin; 

allow it to cool a httle ; then add one pint of cream 

and one ounce of dissolved gelatine ; whisk it for a few 

minutes, and pour it into a mould. When set, turn it 

out and serve. 

Italian Cream. 

Whisk a pint of rich cream and season it with 
sugar; add the juice of half a lemon and one glassful 
of curacoa. When light, pour it into a mould. 

Blanc-Mange. 

Soak one ounce of gelatine in half a pint of new 
milk for about twenty minutes ; then put it into a 
brass pan with one pint of milk and half a pint of 
cream, and four ounces of sugar, two bay leaves, and 



Creams. 203 

a stick of cinnamon. Place the pan on the stove, and 
stir until it boils ; strain it through a piece of thick 
muslin. Stir it occasionally tmtil it is nearly cold ; 
then pour it into a mould, and, when set, turn it out. 

Blanc-Mange, with Jelly* 

Take a casserole shape and wet it inside with cold 
water ; fill it with blanc-mange ; set it in a cool place 
to firm. Dissolve some calf's-foot or wine jelly, 
and fill some china egg-cups with it ; put them in a 
cool place. When set, dip them in tepid water and 
turn them out upon a dish. Turn out the jelly from 
the cnps and place them in the well, in the centre of 
the blanc-mange. Mince some clear jelly, slightly 
coloured pink with cochineal ; place it round the base 
of the shape, and serve. 

Custard, in Cups. 

Put a pint of milk and half a pint of sweet cream 
into a pan with four ounces of white sugar, a stick of 
cinnamon, and two bay leaves, with two ounces of 
flour of rice. Stu* the whole on the fire until it boils ; 
pour it over five eggs, previously well beaten; strain, 
and return it to the pan; place it upon the stove, 
stirring all the time until it is nearly boiling. When 
cold, add a glassful of sherry wine, and pour it into 
custard cups. Custard made in this way may be used 
for many other purposes. 



ICES. 



Arrowroot Pudding, Iced. 

Mix together six ounces of arrowroot, one pint of 
milk, ten ounces of sugar, the juice of one lemon, and half 
a gill of brandy. Stir the whole on the fire until it 
boils and becomes thick ; then remove the pan from 
the fire, and mix in the yolks of ten eggs previously 
well beaten ; and when thoroughly cold, mix in lightly 
the whites of the ten eggs previously beaten to a 
snow. Pour the mixture into the freezing-pot in its 
pail, well surrounded with rough ice mixed with salt. 
Work the freezer round with the hand for about ten 
minutes, and then detach the set ice from the sides of 
the freezer with the ice spattle, and continue freezing 
and working the ice with the spattle, to give smoothness 
and body to the ice, until it forms a stiff, smooth, com- 
pact body. It may then be put into the mould, previously 
ornamented with strips of angelica and orange peel. It 
must then be imbedded in ice mixed with salt, until it 
is time to dish it. When it is wanted, remove it from 
the ice, and wipe the mould. Dip it in cold water for 
about a minute ; wipe it ; then turn the pudding out 
on its dish. 



Ices. 205 

Custard Pudding, Iced. 

Make a good custard, and when cold pour it into 
the freezing-pot in its pail, well surrounded with broken 
ice mixed with salt. Freeze it in the usual way, and when 
set firm add some crystallized cherries. Freeze again, 
working the pudding with the spattle. Put the pud- 
ding into an iced pudding-mould, and imbed it in ice 
for three or four hours. When wanted, turn it out upon 

its dish. 

Iced Souffle. 

Put half a pint of cold water into a deep stew-pan 
with the yolks of ten eggs ; place the pan over a 
basin of hot water ; whisk them until they are quite 
light and hot, then over ice till quite cold. Mix in a 
pint of whipped cream, half a pint of syrup, and 
flavour with vanilla, chocolate, or liqueur of any sort. 
If flavoured with liqueur soak some pieces of sponge 
cake in wine, and place them at the bottom of the 
souffle-dish, and pour the mixture in the dish, sur- 
rounded with a band of paper two inches higher than 
the dish ; fasten with gum or pins. The souffle must 
be set in a freezing-cave when it is filled, and the 
cave covered over. Bury the whole in ice mixed with 
salt, for five or six hours. When about to send to 
table, strew some bruised ratafia biscuits over the top. 
Remove the band of paper which runs round it, and dish 
up on a napkin. 

Cream Souffle, Iced. 

Whip up one pint of thick cream till light ; add a 
wine-glassful of syrup, beat the whites of four eggs to 



•- 



2o6 Ices. 

a snow, and mix them lightly with the cream. Then 
pour into a souffle dish; surround the dish with a band 
of paper two inches higher than the dish. It must be 
buried in ice and freezing salt for about five or six hours. 
When a freezing cave is not to be had, substitute a 
pan with a close cover that will just hold the souffle. 
Rub the inside edge and bottom of the pan slightly 
with butter to prevent the cover and souffle dish stick* 
ing to the pan. When about to send it to table, strew 
some light brown biscuit powder on the surface of the 
souffle. Remove the band of paper which runs round 
it, and dish upon a napkin. 

Iced CoflFee. 

Put one gallon of cold water into a clean copper 

pan, half a pound of coflFee, half a poxmd of lump sugar, 

and the whites of two eggs. Mix well together ; place 

the pan on the stove or slow fire, and bring it gently to 

the boil. Strain it thi'ough a napkin. When cold, add 

one pint of milk that has been boiled, and half a pint 

of rich cream ; then pour it into the freezer, which has 

a cover, and freeze with plenty of rough ice and salt 

for about four hours. Stir it from the sides every 

half hour. 

CoflFee Cream Ice. 

Beat, up the yolks of six eggs; add a large cupftil 
of strong coffee, a pint of boiled milk, and about six 
ounces of sugar; stir over the fire until it thickens, and 
then strain it through a hair sieve into a basin. Add 
half a pint of rich cream. When cold, freeze and 
mould the ice. 



Ices. 207 

Chocolate Cream Ice. 

Boil four ounces of chocolate in half a pint of sweet 
milk. Sweeten with sugar; then add one pint of 
cream ; mix well together. Freeze and mould the ice. 

Brown Bread Ice. 

Brown six ounces of bread crumbs, and dry them 
before the fire. Whip up a pint of thick cream ; add 
four ounces of pounded sugar, and flavour with a wine- 
glassful of maraschino, Madeira, or sherry wine. Mix 
and mould, then freeze it in the usual manner. 

Raspberry Cream Ice. 

Bruise a pound of raspberries and half a pound of 
red currants, with half a pound of loaf sugar. Stir it in 
a pan on the fire until it begins to boil, and then rub the 
whole through a hair sieve. When cold, mix it with a 
pint of cream ; then freeze and mould the ice. 

Grape Water Ice. 

Bruise one pound of fresh grapes ; to these add one 
quart of cold water, the juice of two lemons, and half 
a pint of syrup. Mix it well, and strain through a hair 
sieve. Pour the mixture into the freezing pot ; place 
it in its pail, and surround it with plenty of rough 
broken ice, and freeze in the usual manner. Fill the 
mould and bury it in ice. When wanted, remove it 
from the ice, dip it in cold water,, and lift off the ends 
of the mould. Push the ice out on the dish ready to 
receive it. 



2o8 Ices. 

Cherry Water Ice. 

Bruise about a pound and a half of ripe cherries in a 
mortar, and put them into a pan with about five ounces 
of sugar. Boil for a few minutes, and rub through a 
sieve into a basin. Then add a pint of syrup, and 
half a pint of cold water. Freeze and mould the ice. 

Raspberry Water Ice. 

Bruise one pound of raspberries and half a pound of 
red currants ; add four ounces of sugar, and a gill of 
cold water ; pour it into a pan, and stir it over the fire 
until it boils. Strain it through a hair sieve into a 
basin ; add a pint of syrup, and freeze in the usual 
way. 

Strawberry Water Ioe is made the same as above 
by substituting strawberries for raspberries. 

Orange Water Ice. 

To the juice of six oranges and two lemons add the 

rinds of three oranges rubbed with sugar, one pint of 

syrup, and half a pint of cold water. Mix all together, 

and strain through a hair sieve. Then jfreeze in the 

usual way. 

Lemon Water Ice. 

The juice of eight lemons, the rubbed rind of two, 
a pint of syrup, and a gill of cold water. Mix and freeze 
in the usual way. 

Note. — Bear in mind that while ices are being frozen 
they must be frequently well worked with the spattle, 
to render them smooth and give them consistency. 



Ices. 



209 



Pine Apple Water Ice. 

Poimd in a mortar one pound of pine apples ; add 
one pint of syrup and a gill of cold water. Eub through 
a hair sieve ; pour into the freezing pot, and freeze in 
the usual manner. Then mould it, and imbed it in 
rough ice with salt. When wanted, turn it out as 
directed for grape water ice. 




CAKES AND BISCUITS. 



Plum Cake. 

Ingredients Required. — ^One pound and a half of 
flour, one pound and a half of sultana raisins, one 
pound of soft sugar, one dozen of eggs, and one pound 
of butter. 

Place the butter and sugar in a large basin, and 
work it with a wooden spoon until it presents the ap- 
pearance of a creamy substance. Then add two eggs, 
and beat for five minutes ; then other two, and so on 
until six have been added ; then shake in a handfol of 
flour, and beat in the other six eggs the same way as 
the first. ' Add the flour and the raisins. A tin shape is 
required for baking it in. Its inside must be slightly 
buttered, and several flats of strong paper placed at 
the bottom and inside of the tin. Then brush it over 
with dissolved butter, and dust it with poimded sugar 
and a little flour. Then pour in the mixture, and bake 
it in a moderately-heated oven for about two hours. 

Seed Cake. 

Ingredients Required. — Three quarters of a pound 
of flour, half a poimd of butter, half a pound of sugar, 
half a pound of raisins, half a pound of lemon and 
orange peel, two ounces of almonds^ and four eggs. 



Cakes and Biscuits. 211 

Put the butter and sugar into a basin ; work it with 
a wooden spoon until it presents the appearance of 
thick cream. Then add two eggs, and beat the mix- 
ture for five minutes; then the other two eggs, and 
beat a little longer. Add the flour gradually, and the 
fruits. Butter and paper the inside of a cake tin ; put 
the mixture into the tin and bake for about an hour and 
a half in a moderately-heated oven. 

Benekerry Cake. 

Ingredients. — Three pounds of currants, one pound 
and a quarter of flour, one pound of butter, one pound 
of citron peel, ten eggs, and one glassful of whisky. 

Put the butter and sugar into a basin, and beat it to 
a cream ; then add two eggs, and beat for five minutes; 
then other two, and so on till ten have been added. 
Add the flour, then the currants, previously washed in 
cold water, and dried on a cloth before the fire. Mince 
the citron peel, and add it to the other ingredients. 
Then pour in the whisky. Butter the tin inside slightly. 
Put several folds of paper at the bottom and round the 
sides of the tin ; dust it with a little sugar and flour ; 
then put in the mixture, and bake in a sharp oven for 
about three hours. Put a piece of folded paper on the 
top to prevent it from burning. 

Diet Loaves. 

Ingredients Required. — Six ounces of flour, four 
ounces of pounded sugar, and nine eggs. 

Put the yolks in a basin, and the whites in a brass or 
copper pan. Add the sugar to the yolks, and beat till 



212 Cakes and Biscuits. 

very light. Whisk the whites to a snow. Add a Kttle 
of the flour to the yolks, and a little of the whites 
of eggs, alternately, until the whole has been mixed. 
Line three square tins with paper, previously brushed 
over with dissolved butter and sprinkled with sugar ; 
pour in the mixture in equal quantities. Put two thin 
slices of citron-peel on the top of each, and bake in a 
slow oven for half an hour. 

Savoy Cake. 

Ingredients. — One pound of flour, one poimd of fine 
pounded sugar, and one dozen of eggs. 

Put the eggs and sugar into a brass pan ; beat up 
over a stove till very Ught and white ; then remove the 
pan from the stove, and beat till cold ; then mix in the 
flour. Grease a mould with dissolved butter, and dust 
the inside with sugar and flour. Pour in the mixture, 
and bake for about half an hour in a slow oven. 

Rice Cake. 

Ingredients. — Half a poimd of flour, half a pound 
of sugar, six oimces of butter, four ounces of rice flour, 
six eggs, and a few drops of ratafia. 

Put the sugar and butter into a basin and beat to 
a cream ; then add the eggs, one by one, beating five 
minutes between each. Mix the flour and rice flour 
together, and add to the other ingredients with a few 
drops of ratafia. Pour the mixture into a prepared tin, 
and bake in a slow oven for about three-quarters of 
an hour. 



Cakes and Biscuits. 2 1 3 

Phantasy Cake. 

Ingredients Required. — One pound and a half of 
flour, one pound butter, one pound sugar, one half- 
pound citron-peel, one dozen eggs, and a glassful of 
brandy. 

Put the butter and sugar into a basin, and beat 
it to a cream ; add two eggs, and beat for five 
minutes ; then other two, and keep beating until six 
have been added; then shake in a handful of flour, 
and add the remaining six eggs. Then mix in the 
whole of the flour, with the citron-peel chopped fine, 
and half a pound of sweet almonds, skinned and 
chopped fine, a glassful of brandy, and two tea-spoon- 
fuls of baking powder ; mix well, and put the mixture 
into a cake tin, previpusly lined inside with paper, 
slightly brushed with dissolved butter, and dusted with 
sugar. Bake in a moderate oven for about three hours. 

Madeira Cake. 

Ingredients. — One pound and a quarter of flour, 
one pound sugar, twelve ounces butter, and ten drops 
of the essence of lemon. 

Put the sugar and butter into a basin, and work it 
with a wooden spoon until it presents the appearance 
of a creamy substance ; then add the eggs, two at a 
time, and beat five minutes between every two. When 
all the eggs have been added and the mixture well 
beaten, pour it into a tin, previously lined with foolscap 
paper, brushed with dissolved butter, and sprinkled with 
sugar. Bake in a moderate oven for about an hour and 
a quarter. 



214 Cakes and Biscuits. 

Sultana Cake. 

Ingredients Required. — One pound and a-lialf of 
sultana raisins, one pound flour, one pound sugar, 
three-quarters of a pound of "butter, and twelve eggs. 

Place the butter and sugar into a basin ; beat it with 
a spoon for about half an hour ; add two eggs, and 
beat for five minutes ; then other two, and so on until 
six have been added. Then add a handful of flour, and 
then the other six eggs. Keep beating the mixture 
all the time. Then mix in gently the flour and raisins. 
Then bake in a moderate oven for about two hours. 

Note. — The finest flour, dried in an oven, or before 
the fire, and passed through a hair sieve, should always 
be used for cakes and biscuits. Pounded white sugar 
and very fresh eggs should also be used. 

Petticoat Tails. 

Ingredients. — One pound of flour, six ounces of 
butter, and six ounces of sugar. 

Rub the butter into the flour, then the sugar, a pinch 

of salt, and a little water, and work it into a smooth 

dough. Divide it into two ; roll it out into two round 

cakes about the size of a dinner plate. Cut a round 

cake from the centre of each (with a cutter), four inches 

in diameter ; then divide the outside into six. Prickle 

on the top, and bake in a moderate oven for about 

twenty minutes. 

Vinegar Cake. 

Ingredients. — One pound of flour, half a pound of 
sugar, six ounces of butter, four eggs, two table-spoon- 
fuls of vinegar, and a teaspoonful of carbonate of soda. 



Cakes and Biscuits. 215 

Beat the butter and sugar to a cream; drop 
in an egg, and beat for five minutes ; then another, 
and so on until the four have been added. Pour in half 
^ pint^of milk, and the carbonate of soda mixed with 
the vinegar, and half a poimd of currants* Mix the 
vehole of the ingredients together ; put it into a pre- 
pared cake-tin, and bake in a moderate oven for about 
:an hour and a half. 

Snow Cake. 

Ingredients. — Half a pound of butter, half a poimd 
of sugar, half a pound of flour, the same of potato 
fecula, six eggs, a small glassful of sherry wine, and a 
teaspoonful of baking powder. 

Beat the butter and sugar to a cream; then add the 
•eggs one by one. Beat five minutes between each egg; 
mix in the flour and potato fecula ; then the wine and 
powder. Prepare a mould and pour in the cake, and 
bake it for about an hour and a half. 

Scotch Bun. 

Ingredients. — Two pounds and a half of currants, 
one pound and a half of patent flour, one pound and a 
•quarter sultana raisins, half a pound orange peel, six 
ounces of almonds, and six ounces of butter, with half 
^ pint of milk. 

Dissolve the butter and add it to the milk; pour 
it among the flour; make it into a dough; then add 
the currants and raisins. Mince the orange peel and 
almonds; add them to the other ingredients; put 
the mixture into a prepared cake-tin, and bake for 
about two hours in a moderate oven. 



2i6 Cakes and Biscuits. 

Patent Flour. 

To four pounds of flour add two ounces of cream- 
of-tartar, and one ounce of carbonate of soda. Mix 
together. 

Note. — It will also make nice scones with the addi- 
tion of an ounce and a half of butter, and the same of 
sugar, and a little milk. 

Soda Cake. 

Ingredients. — One pound of flour, half a pound 
butter, half a pound of sugar, two eggs, a few carraway 
seeds, and a tea-spoonful of carbonate of soda. 

Put the butter and sugar into a basin, beat it with a 
wooden spoon for about twenty minutes ; add the eggs, 
and beat a little longer; then mix in the flour, carraway 
seeds, and soda. Put the mixture into a prepared tin^ 
and bake for about an hour and a half. 

Arrowroot Cake. 

Ingredients. — One pound of arrowroot, half a pound 
of butter, three oimces of sugar, two eggs, and a small 
glassful of brandy. 

Beat the butter and sugar to a cream; add the eggs,, 
and beat a little longer; mix in the arrowroot, then 
the brandy ; stir it up lightly, and put it into a pre- 
pared tin. Bake in a moderate oven about an hour 
and a quarter. 

Note. — Biscuits may be made from the same prepa- 
ration as above. Butter a baking-sheet very slightly ; 
dust it with sugar; put teaspoonfuls of the mixture 
on the sheet, about an inch distant from each other. 



Cakes and Biscuits. 217 

When the sheet is fall, place it in the oven to bake for 
about ten minutes. When the biscuits are of a light 
fawn colour, remove the sheet from the oven and lift 
the biscuits carefully off with a knife. 

Sponge Cake. 

Ingredients. — Half a pound of flour, half a pound 
sugar, five eggs, and two table-spoonfuls of sherry wine. 

Put the sugar and eggs into a basin; whisk together 
for half an hour; mix the flour in lightly, pour in 
the wine. Do not stir it much. Put it into a pre- 
pared mould, and bake in a gentle oven for about 

half an hour. 

Large Sponge Cake. 

Ingredients. — One pound of flour, one pound ot 
sugar, one of eggs, and a few drops of the essence of 
lemon. 

Put the sugar and eggs into a brass pan, beat for 
about ten minutes ; then place the pan upon the stove, 
and keep beating until the mixture is very light, and 
rather hot. Then take it off and beat till cold, and add 
a few drops of the essence of lemon; mix in lightly one 
pound of flour, previously dried in the oven and passed 
through a hair-sieve. Grease a tall mould with dissolved 
butter, and sprinkle it with pounded sugar and a little 
flour. Pour the mixture into the mould, and bake in 
a slow oven for nearly three-quarters of an hour. 

Small Sponge Cakes. 

Put four ounces of sugar into a pan with two eggs ; 
beat together over the stove till light and hot ; then 



2iS Cakes and Biscuits. 

beat it off the fire until cold. Season slightly with 

l^uion juice or essence. Mix in lightly four ounces of 

flour; put the mixture into small pans, previously 

prepared, and bake in a slow oven for about ten 

minutes. 

Gingerbread Cake. 

Ingrbdients. — One pound and a-half of flour, half 
a pound of butter, half a pound of sugar, the same of 
treacle, orange peel, three ounces of almonds, one 
ounce of groimd ginger, teaspoonful of carbonate of 
soda, the juice of one lemon, and six eggs. 

Beat the butter and sugar to a cream; add the eggs^ 
two at a time — beat five minutes between each two. 
Next add the treacle, then the flour, orange peel,almond& 
(minced small), lemon juice, and carbonatp of soda. Put 
the mixture into a prepared tin, and bake in rather a slow 
oven for about three hom*s. 

Note. — It is impossible to determine the exact length 

of time that this, or indeed any other, cake should remain 

in the oven before it is done. This will mainly depend 

upon the construction of the oven, and partly on the 

necessity there may be for occasionally opening it 

during the process of baking the cake. The best way 

to ascertain whether the cake is done is to run a skewer 

down the centre, and if, when withdrawn, the skewer 

is dry and free from any portion of the cake in an 

unbaked state, it will be safe to turn it out of the 

mould. 

Plain Gingerbread. 

Ingredients. — One poimd and three-quarters of flour^ 
one pound of treacle, four ounces of butter, three 



Cakes and Biscuits. 219 

ounces of sugar, one and a-half teaspoonfuls of car- 
bonate of soda, the same of ground ginger and 
cinnamon, one of alspice and carraway seed, two eggs, 
and about a pint of butter-milk. 

Heat the treacle and butter in a pan, and pour it 
among the flour ; then add the seasonings ; then pour 
in the butter-milk, and stir up the mixture. Beat the 
sugar and eggs together, and add it to the other ingre- 
dients, and mix in the carbonate of soda. When well 
mixed, line three tin shapes with buttered paper, put 
the mixture into them in equal quantities, and bake in 
a moderate oven. 

Plain Shortbread, 

For two pounds of flour add one pound of butter 
and six ounces of sugar. Mix together into a smooth 
dough; divide into the number of cakes required. 
Pinch round the edges, and prickle on the top ; orna- 
ment with comfits and strips of orange peel. Put a 
piece of double paper under each cake, and place them 
on a baking sheet, and bake in a moderate oven. 

Note. — If liked, fruit may be added to this bread, 
in proportion four ounces orange peel, the same of 
almonds, two ounces of citron peel, all minced small 
and added to the above ingredients, with an ounce 
and a-half of carraway seeds. 

Small Rice Cakes. 

Ingredients. — The yolks of six eggs and the whites 
of two, six ounces of butter, the same of pounded 
sugar, eight ounces of ground rice, and two table- 



220 Cakes and Biscuits. 

spoonfuls of orange flower-water, or the grated rind of 

a lemon. 

Beat the butter and sugar together in a basin 

for twenty minutes ; then add the yolks, two at a 

time, until the whole are added. Then mix in the 

ground rice and the orange flower- water. Whisk the 

whites to a snow, and mix them in lightly with the 

other ingredients. Rub the insides of some patty pans 

with dissolved butter, dust them with sugar, and 

half fill them with the mixture. Bake the cakes in a 

quick oven. 

Passion Biscuits. 

Ingredients. — One pound of flour, two ounces of 
butter, a pinch of salt, and a little new milk. 

Rub the butter into the flour, then the salt. Moisten 
with the milk. Put it into the mortar, and beat the 
paste for twenty minutes ; then cut it into pieces the 
size of walnuts. Roll into little balls; then roll in pieces 
as tliin as a sixpence; prick them; then bake in a quick 
oven, watching them till of a light brown colour. 

Arrowroot Biscuits. 

Ingredients. — Eight ounces of butter, and the same 
of sugar, six ounces of flour, same of patent flour, six 
ounces of arrowroot, and five eggs. 

Put the sugar and butter into a basin ; beat it to a 
cream ; add the yolks of eggs by degrees, and beat till 
the mixture is very light. Mix the flour, arrowroot, and 
patent flour together. Add it to the mixture. Whisk 
the whites of eggs to a snow. Mix it in lightly with 
the other ingredients. Drop the mixture irom the point 



Cakes and Biscuits, 221 

of a table-spoon upon a prepared baking sheet, and bake 
in a brisk oven, for about ten minutes. 

Dean of Ripon's Biscuits, 

Ingredients. — ^Three quarters of a pound of flour, half 
a pound of sugar, a quarter of a pound of butter, half 
an ounce of carraway seeds, and a little cream. 

Mix the butter with the flour ; then add the sugar 
and carraway seeds. Moisten with a little cream, and 
work it into a firm dough. Then roll it out as thin as 
a sixpence. Cut it in the shape of fingers or rounds, 
according to taste, and bake in a slow oven for about 
ten minutes. When done, they should be quite crisp^ 
and of a light fawn colour. 

Queen Drops. 

Ingredients. — ^Nine ounces of sugar, eight ounces 
of butter, eight ounces of flour, six ounces of patent 
flour, seven eggs, and a few currants. 

Beat the butter and sugar together in a basin; then 

add the yolks of eggs by degrees. When quite light, 

add the flour, patent flour, and currants. Mix in lightly 

the whites of eggs, previously whisked to a snow. 

Drop the mixture from the point of a table-spoon on to 

a prepared sheet, and bake for about ten minutes in a 

sharp oven. 

Chocolate Biscuits. 

Ingredients. — Four ounces of flour, the same of 
butter and of sugar, three ounces of chocolate, the 
whites of five eggs, and the yolks of two. 

Beat the butter and sugar to a cream ; then add the 



222 Cakes and Biscuits. 

yolks aud chocolate, and beat for twenty minutes; mix 
in the whites of eggs, previously whisked to a snow. 
Rub a baking-sheet with dissolved lard ; cover it with 
white paper. It must also be brushed over with lard 
and sprinkled with sugar. Drop the mixture from a tea- 
spoon on to the paper, and bake in a slow oven for 
about ten minutes. 

Ratafia Biscuits. 

Ingredients. — Two pounds sugar, one pound ground 
almonds, two ounces rice-flour, nine whites of eggs. 

Prepare the baking-sheets with greased paper, as 
for above. Put the mixture into a bag, and pipe ; and 
drop the biscuits on the paper, about the size of a 
shilling. Bake in a slow oven for about ten minutes. 

Ginger Biscuits. 

Ingredients. — One pound of flour, twelve ounces of 
fresh butter, twelve ounces of pounded sugar, two 
ounces of ground ginger, and eight yolks of eggs. 

Beat the butter and sugar to a cream; add the 
yolks by degrees, beating all the time; then mix in the 
flour and ginger. Roll it out to the sixth part of an 
inch, cut them about the size of a five-shilling piece. 
Pass a paste brush over them, dipped in cold water ; 
sprinkle a little sugar over them, and bake in a slow 
oven until pale brown and quite crisp. 

Ginger Nuts. 

Ingredients. — One pound of flour, half a pound of 
sugar, the same of butter and treacle, four ounces of 



Cakes and Biscuits. 22*; 



o 



orange-peel, two ounces of almonds, two ounces of 
ground ginger, the rind and juice of half a lemon, a 
small teaspoonful of carbonate of soda, and one ^^Z* 
Beat the butter and sugar together ; add the flour 
and treacle, the peel and almonds, cut small, then the 
soda and egg. Work them into a firm dough ; make it 
up in small balls the size of a walnut, flatten them 
with the hand, and place them upon prepared baking- 
sheets ; and bake light brown and quite crisp. • This 
mixture may also be rolled out and cut into any shape 

or size. 

Ginger Cream Biscuits. 

Ingredients. — One pound and a quarter of flour, 
three-quarters of a pound butter, half a pound of 
sugar, an ounce of ground ginger, two eggs, and a 
little cream. 

Beat the butter and sugar for twenty minutes ; 

add the eggs, and beat five minutes longer. Add 

the flour by degrees, then the ginger, and about a 

teacupful of cream. Stir the mixture, and roll it out 

till about the thickness of a quarter of an inch. Cut 

out with a small tin-cutter as many biscuits as the 

paste will produce, and place them on a slightly buttered 

baking sheet, and bake in a moderate oven for about 

ten minutes. 

Orange Biscuits. 

Put on some bitter oranges in cold water ; let them 
come to the boil ; change the water four or five times ; 
the last time let them boil gently three-quarters of an 
hour. Remove them firom the pan ; cut them iu 
halves ; take out all the pulp ; chip the rind small with 



224 Cakes and Biscuits. 

a knife ; then put it into a mortar and pound it well, 
and rub it through a hair sieve, and add it to the pulp. 
To one pound of the prepared orange add two pounds 
of pounded white Bugar ; mix it and let it lie all night ; 
next day spread it out thin on dishes ; allow it to stand 
for a few hours ; then cut them into shapes. When dry 
turn them, and allow them to dry on the other side. 




JAMS AND JELLIES 



Peach Jam. 

Skin the peaches and extract their stones ; add to 
the fruit its weight of fine white sugar; boil in a 
brass or copper pan for about fifteen minutes. Remove 
the scum as it rises to the surface. Remove from 
the fire, and put it into jam-pots, and put away in 
a cool place for a day or two. When thoroughly 
set it must be covered with small rounds of white 
paper dipped in brandy or whisky, and tied down 
with another covering of paper, or of bladder. They 
may then be put away in a dry cool place. 

Apricot Jam. 

Cut up some ripe apricots ; break the stones ; ex- 
tract the kernels, scald, and add them to the fruit. To 
each pound of fruit allow oae pound of crushed loaf- 
sugar ; put it into a preserve-pan, and stir until it 
boils. Remove the scum; boil it for about twenty 
minutes, stirring it all the time ; then put it into pota, 
and finish the same as peach jam. 

Cherry Jam. 
Pick the cherries off the stalks ; extract the stones ; 
place the fruit in a basin ; then pour off their juice into 



226 yams and y elites. 



another dish. Have ready some red curraat or rasp- 
berry juice ; add the same quantity of it to the pre- 
pared cherries as that of their own juice. Allow 
equal quantities of cherries and pounded sugar. Boil it 
for about twenty minutes ; remove the scum carefully ; 
and put the jelly into pots. The juice of the cherries 
may be used for syrup or pudding sauce. 

Green Gage (Plum) Janoi. 

Pick and extract the stones from as many green 
gages as may be required. To each pound of fruit 
allow one pound of crushed loaf-sugar. Put it into a 
preserving-pan with the fruit ; add a little water ; place 
the pan on a clear, brisk fire. With a wooden spoon stir 
carefully. Blanch the kernels and add them to the 
jam. When it has boiled about twenty minutes skim 
it well, and put it into pots. 

Gooseberry Jam. 

Take as many ripe gooseberries as required. Allow 
equal weight of sugar for fruit ; add a little raspberry 
or currant juice. To a pint of juice add a pound of 
sugar. Put the whole into a preserve-pan ; place it 
upon the stove or clear fire, and boil for about twenty- 
five minutes. Skim it well and pot it. 

Black Currant Jam. 

Gather the currants when dry; pick them from 
their stalks. Allow a pound of sugar to each pound 
of fruit; and to every four pounds add a pint of red 
currant or raspberry juice, adding a pound of sugar to 



Jams and Jellies. 227 

every pint. Then put it into a brass pan and boil on 

a clear fire for about fifteen minutes ; skim and put it 

into pots* 

Raspberry Jam. 

Gather the raspberries when dry. To each pound 
of fruit allow one pound of crushed white sugar. Place 
the pan on the stove, stir until it boils, remove the 
scum. When it has boiled about ten minutes, pot it. 

Strawberry Jam. 

To each pound of strawberries add one pound of 

pounded sugar. Put them into a preserve-pan with 

the sugar ; place the pan on the hot plate ; shake it 

occasionally to prevent the fruit firom adhering to the 

bottom. Boil it sharply for about fifteen minutes; 

skim it well, and put it into pots, and finish as directed 

for peach jam. 

Rhubarb Jam. 

Take as much tender and full-grown rhubarb as 
required ; cut oflT the ends, rub it with a cloth, and 
cut in pieces about an inch long. To each pound of 
rhubarb allow one pound and a quarter of sugar. Put 
layers of them alternately in a deep dish ; let it stand 
twenty-four hours. Pour the liquor into a brass pan 
and boil it for half an hour; then add the rhubarb^ 
and boil for half an hour longer ; remove the scum, 
and put the jam into pots. 

Rhubarb Jelly. 
Take some rhubarb while young and tender ; wipe 
it with a cloth, cut it in pieces ; put it into a pan, with 



228 yams and fellies. 

as much water as will just cover the bottom of the 

pan. Put it on the stove, and simmer slowly until the 

whole is dissolved into a pulp ; then strain through a 

jelly-bag ; and to every pint of juice add one pound 

and a quarter of crushed loaf-sugar. A few pieces of 

whole ginger may be added. Boil the jelly sharply 

for about twenty minutes; skim it well, and put it 

into pots. 

Whortleberry Jam. 

Take the berries when ripe, put them into a brass 
pan ; add the same weight of sugar, as much water as 
will cover the bottom of the pan; stir it on the fire until 
it boils ; remove the scum as it rises. Boil for about 
fifteen minutes, and put it into pots. 

Red Currant Jelly. 

Gather the currants when they are dry ; bruise 

them with the hand ; put them into a brass pan ; place 

it on the stove. Stir the berries until they are hot, 

then pour into a jelly-bag. When the juice has all run 

through, put it into a preserve-pan. To every pint 

of juice allow one pound of crushed loaf-sugar. Place 

the pan on the stove or clear fire ; stir it all the time ; 

remove the scum as it rises. Allow it to boil for about 

two minutes, then put it into pots, and finish as directed 

for peach jam. 

Apple Jelly. 

Slice up some green, juicy apples ; place them in a 
preserve- pan ; add, as much cold water as will nearly 
cover them, also a few pieces of whole ginger. Place 
the pan on the stove and boil the apples to a mash ; 



yams and Jellies. 229 

pour it into a jelly-bag ; place a basin under the bag, 
and allow all the apple-juice to pass through the bag. 
Allow a pound of sugar to every pint of juice. Boil it 
for about fifteen minutes, skim it, and put it into pots. 

Orange Jelly. 

Take four dozen bitter and one dozen sweet oranges ; 
cut them in thin slices ; take out all the pips ; add 
enough cold water to cover them ; then boil till quite 
soft. Strain through a flannel bag. Add one pound 
of crushed loaf sugar to every pint of orange juice, and 
let it boil for about twenty minutes. Remove the scum 
and put it into pots. 

Parsley Jelly. 

Take a basketful of tender parsley, and wash it in 
several waters. Place it in a brass pan ; add as much 
cold water as will nearly cover it. Boil it on the fire for 
about half an hour, and pour it into a jelly-bag. Re- 
turn the juice into the bag a second time. To every 
pint of juice, add one poimd of lump sugar ; then boil 
it for twenty-five minutes. Remove the scum, and put 
the jelly into pots. 

Orange Marmalade. 

Cut some bitter oranges in quarters ; use a sharp 
knife to cut out the pulp and remove the pips. Put the 
fruit into a basin, and the quarters of peel into a pan 
containing water. Boil them until they are nearly 
soft to the touch. They must then be drained and 
put into cold water, and afterwards put on sieves to 

Q 



230 Jams and Jellies. 

drip. They must then be cut up ia shreds. Then 
weigh the shred-peel and the interior fruit kept in 
reserve. And to every pound of prepared fruit allow 
one pound of crushed loaf sugar, and the grated rind 
and juice of two or more lemons. Put the whole into 
a pan, and boil for about twenty-five minutes. Skim 
it well, and put it into pots. 

Transparent Marmalade. 

Grate the rind of some bitter oranges ; cut them in 
quarters ; put the juice and pulp of the fruit into a 
basin. Pick out the pips and septa. Put the latter 
into a little cold water ; then strain, and add to the 
liquor and pulp. Tie the rind in a piece of cloth, and 
boil it in water for ten minutes, and add to the pre- 
pared orange. To every pint of the orange allow 
one pound of crushed loaf sugar. Boil for about half 
an hour. Skim it well, and put it into pots. 




MISCELLANEOUS RECIPES. 



Elderberry Wine. 

Boil five gallons of water for half an hour, and let 
it stand till lukewarm. Mince roughly twenty-four 
pounds of Malaga raisins; add them to the water. 
Let it remain for ten days. Stir it twice a day. Then 
strain the liquor through a hair sieve. Have ready 
about six pints of the juice of elderberries, extracted 
as for jelly. Mix it cold with the raisin juice, and put 
it into a cask. Let it stand in a warm place. Tilt the 
cask a little, and stir the contents well up from the 
bottom once or twice a-day. Any sediment that the 
wine may contain will be cast off at the lower side of 
the bung-hole. A little liquor must be kept in readi- 
ness for filling up the cask as occasion may require 
during the process of fermentation, which may last for 
two or three weeks, according to the size of the cask. 
When the wine has ceased to hiss, the cask may be 
edged up until the bung-hole is level. Then cork it 
tight, and let it remain in a cool, dry plsTce for three 
months. It may then be put into bottles, and kept 
for any length of time. 



232 Miscellaneous Recipes. 

Mixed Fruit Wine. 

This wine can be made from a mixture of small 
fruits. These, when ripe, should be gathered dry, 
and put into an earthen jar, and well stirred and 
squeezed with the hand once or twice a-day, in 
order to dissolve the fruits. When the liquor rises in 
the vessel, it must be strained through a hair sieve and 
put into a cask. To every gallon of liquor, add about 
three pounds and a half of crushed loaf sugar. Tilt 
the cask a little. Allow it to ferment the same as elder- 
berry wine ; and to every gallon add about a pint and 
a half of malt whisky. Then cork it up tight. Let it 
remain in the cask for about six months, and then 
put it into bottles. Cork and seal them. 

Bramble Vinegar. 

Put the fruit in a jar and cover with vinegar ; let it 
stand for two days and nights ; then strain through a 
flannel bag, and boil the same as jelly, with sugar, for 
twenty minutes. Let it stand till cold enough not to 
break the bottles; cork when thoroughly cold. It is 
then ready for use. 

Raspberry or Strawberry Syrup. 

Put twelve pounds of fruit, quite dry and ripe, into 
a vessel; pour into it twelve quarts of cold water, 
previously acidulated with five ounces of tartaric acid. 
Let it stand twenty-four hours; then strain off the 
liquid, taking care not to bruise the fruit. To each 
pint of clear liquid add one pound of loaf-sugar, finely 
pounded. When the sugar is dissolved, bottle the 



\ 



Miscellaneous Recipes. 233 

eyrup ; cork, and tie down with twine ; then dip the 
corks in melted resin, and keep in a cool place. This 
liquid may be made into solid shapes by adding an 
ounce of dissolved gelatine to a quart of syrup; then 
put into a mould, and, when firm, turn it out. The 
whole process must be done cold. 

Preserved Cherries. 

Take Morilla cherries before they are over-ripe 5 
prick them all over with a pin, and put them on the 
fire in a preserve pan; cover them with a thin syrup; 
allow them to come gently to the boil. Remove them 
from the fire, and set aside in an earthenware dish. 
Next day, put them on again; add a Httle more 
sugar to the syrup, and just bring them to the boil. 
Repeat this process three or four times. The last 
time, take out the cherries, and boil the syrup till 
pretty thick ; when cold, pour it on the cherries. Put 
them into a stone jar, and tie down with bladder. 

Brandy Cherries. 
Cut ripe cherries off the tree; let them drop, as they 
are cut, into wide bottles — ^brandy being first put into 
the bottles. When the bottles are full, and the fruit 
well covered with brandy, either seal them or put 
bladder on them. Keep them thus for six weeks; then 
open the bottles and pour out the brandy; add to it 
pounded white sugar, and, when quite dissolved, pour 
it back again over the cherries. Two ounces of sugar 
to a pint of brandy is the proper proportion. The 
bottles must be corked and sealed, or tied down with 
bladder; 



I 



234 Miscellaneous Recipes. 



Bottled Gooseberries. 
Gather Bome gooseberries when dry and in their 
unripe state ; put them into bottles, and fill up with 
syrup ; cork the bottles tight, and tie them down with 
striiig. Place the bottles in a stock-pot; add cold 
water in sufficient quantity to reach up to the necks of 
the bottles ; place the pot on a slow fire or stove ; put 
the lid on it, and, as soon as the water comes to boiling 
point, remove the pot from the fire ; let the bottles 
remain until the water becomes cold. Any of the corks 
which, in the course of scalding, may have been thrown 
out or become loosened, must be replaced and tied down 
afresh ; and the top of each bottle must be dipped in 
hot bottle-wax, and then put away in a cold cellar, or 
buried in the earth. 

Preserved Cucumbers. 

Take some nice cucumbers, and put them in water 
with salt for one night. Next day, place them by the 
side of the fire, in the same brine ; cover them with 
vine leaves until they turn yellow ; then wash them 
in cold water; put them into a pan with fresh water 
and a small piece of alum ; cover with vine leaves, and 
simmer over a slow fire for a few minutes until they 
turn a nice green colour. Remove them from the pan 
and drip them on a sieve ; then cut them into six*inch 
lengths ; scoop out all the seeds, put pieces of whole 
ginger into the insides of the pieces of cucumber, and 
tie it in with tape ; then boil in syrup for about fifteen 
minutes, or until the cucumbers are soft; then remove 
the pan from the fire. When cold, put the cucumbers 



Miscellaneous Recipes. 235 

into a jar; boil the syrup with a little more sugar until 
pretty thick ; when cold, pour it over the cucumbers. 
They must be completely covered with the syrup, and 
the top of the jar tied down with bladder. When 
about to dish the cucumbers, out the tape and remove 
the ginger ; pour a little of the syrup over them. 

Bottled Currants. 

Gather the currants in dry weather ; put them into 
clean, dry bottles; fill up with syrup; cork and tie 
down, as directed for gooseberries; place the bottles 
in a deep pot with cold water; put on the stove. 
When nearly boiling, remove the pot from the stove ; 
when the water is cold, finish the bottles as directed 
for gooseberries. 

BoTTLE-WAX must be melted with bees'-wax in the 
proportion of one ounce of bees'-wax to one pound of 
bottle-wax. 

Pickled Cauliflower. 

Cut the cauliflowers in small sprigs ; soak them in 
water with salt for one night ; then boil in milk and 
water for four minutes. Lift them gently on a sieve 
and let them become cold. Boil them a second time, 
the same length of time and in the same manner. Re- 
move them carefully from the pan, and place . them 
upon sieves to drip. Put them into jars or bottles; 
pour boiling vinegar, with mace and white pepper-corns 
over the cauliflowers. Cover tightly to exclude air. 
Small white onions may be done in the same manner 



236 Miscellaneous Recipes. 

Pickled Red Cabbages. 

Slice the cabbages into a colander, and sprinkle each 
layer with salt. Allow it to drain for two days ; then 
put it into a jar, and pour in boiling vinegar enough 
to cover the whole. Cover the top of the jar with 
bladder. 

Mushroom Catsup. 

Gather mushrooms when dry; break them into bits, 
and put them into a dish. Sprinkle each layer with 
salt. Let them remain for two days ; stir occasionally; 
strain the liquid through a hair sieve,- and put it into 
a pan. Add mixed spices, the beat whites of two or 
more eggs. Boil for about five minutes ; then strain it 
through a napkin into a basin. When cold, put it into 
bottles ; cork and seal them, and keep in a dry place. 

Cream Cheese. 

Place a piece of linen inside a round basin ; pour 
therein about two quarts of thick sweet cream ; gather 
up the edges of the cloth, and tie with twine close to 
the cream; suspend it upon a hook or nail; place a 
basin under it to receive the thin cream as it passes 
through the linen cloth. When the cream ceases to 
run remove the twine nearer to the cream ; then let 
it drip for twenty-four hours. Turn it upside down, 
and place a heavy weight on the top, with nettles 
under and over the cheese. And when about to serve 
remove the cloth; place the cheese upon its dish; 
garnish round the base with small nettle leaves, and 
serve with oatmeal cakes or hard biscuits. 



Miscellaneous Recipes. 237 

Preserved Eggs. 

Get new-laid eggs while wann, and rub them all 
over with a cloth soaked in butter ; then take a box or 
barrel, and put a lair of salt into it. Lay the eggs 
among the salt, and cover them over with it to exclude 
the air, and keep in a dry place. 

To Sponge Black Silk. 

Put a teacupful of whisky into a basin ; add a table- 
spoonful of black soap, and a teaspoonful of honey. Mix 
well. Dip a sponge into the mixture, and rub on each 
side of the silk. Then dip the silk in two clean waters. 
Hang it on a screen to drip. When half dry, iron it 
on the inside. 

To Clean Hair Brushes. 

Spread a double sheet of newspaper upon a table, 
and place thereon two handfals of flour. Take two 
brushes, and dip them into the flour. Eub the two 
together, and then shake out the soiled flour. Dip them 
again, and go on rubbing and dipping until they are 
clean. Rub them with a cloth. Brushes cleaned in 
this manner do not get soft. 

Wash for the Hair, 

Dissolve one ounce of borax and half an ounce of 
camphor in a pint of boiling water. When cold, dip a 
sponge or piece of flannel into the wash and rub it 
to the roots of the hair. Brush well afterwards. 



238 Miscellatieous Recipes. 

Pomade for the Hair. 

Take one pint of salad oil, three ounces spermaceti, 
six drams bergamot, one dram palm oil, and four drops 
otto of roses. Mix these together in a basin ; dissolve 
before the fire, and put it into pots. 

Gold-Coloured Ink. 

Eigbt ounces of water, one ounce of pale bronze, 
one ounce of gum-arabic, one dram of ox-gall, and one 
dram of honey. Mix them all well together. Put 
into a bottle, and shake frequently until disBolved. 




INDEX. 



PAQI 

SOUPS. 

Soup made from Dried Tnrtio, 5 

Tomato Soup, .... 6 

Venison Soup, .... 6 

Heron Soup, .... 7 

Clear Brown Soup, ... 8 

Almond Soup, .... 9 

Spring Soup, .... 9 

Macaroni Soup, ... 10 

Ox-Tail Soup, ... 10 

Clear Mock Turtle Soup, . 10 

Thick Mock Turtle Soup, . 11 

Grouse Soup, Clear, . . 12 

Grouse Soup, Thick, . . 12 

Potato Soup, .... 13 

Kidney Soup, .... 13 

Celery and Button-Onion Soup, 14 

Giblet Soup, Clear, . . 14 

Giblet Soup, Thick, . . 15 

Hare Soup, Thick, • . . 15 

Hare Soup, Clear, ... 16 

MuUigatawney Soup, . . 16 

Mulligatawney Soup, Clear, . 17 

Chestnut Soup, . . . 17 

Vegetable Marrow Soup, . 17 

White Stock, .... 18 

Duchess Soup, .... 18 

Bich White Soup, ... 18 

Palestine Soup, ... 19 

Victoria Soup, ... 19 

Cocky-Leeky, .... 20 

Hodge-Podge, .... 20 

Green Pea Soup, . . . 20 

Common Pea Soup, . . 21 

Oyster Soup, .... 21 

Lobster Soup, .... 22 

Crab Soup, .... 22 

Eel Soup, .... 23 

FISH. 

Boiled Salmon, ... 24 

Grilled Salmon, ... 24 

Fillets of Salmon, a ITndienne, 25 

Fillets of Salmon, a la Bavigotte, 25 

Salmon, An Gratin, . . 25 

Salmon Cadgerre, ... 26 

Trout, 26 

Turbot, Plain Boiled, . . 26 

Turbot ?rith Cream, An Gratin, 27 



Fillets of Turbot, . 

Brill, 

John Dory, .... 
Sturgeon, a la Cardinal, . 
Sturgeon, Grilled, with Piquante 

Sauce, .... 
Cod, with Brown Oyster Sauce, 
Crimped Cod, with Oyster 

Sauce, 
Cod, a rindienne. 
Plain Boiled Bice for Curries, 
Grilled Haddock, 
Fillets of Haddock, . 
Baked Haddock, 
Soles, Boiled, . 
Soles, Fried, . . .* 
Stufifed Soles, . 
Fillets of Sole, 
Fillets of Sole, Pried, 
Fillets of Sole, a la Tartar, 
Fillets of Gurnet, 
Boiled Gurnet, . 
Boiled Mackeral, 
Grilled Mackeral, 
Mackeral, Filleted, . 
Bed Mullets, Stewed, 
Bed Mullets, Grilled, 
Bed Mullets, with Herbs, 
Whitings, Boiled, 
Whitings, Fried, 
Whitings, Fried a la Francaise 
Fried Smelts, . 
Baked Smelts, 
Eels, Fried, 

Eel Pie, .... 
Baked Pike, 

Souchet of Pike, . . 
Perch, .... 
Pouns, Boiled, 
Pouns, Fried, . 
Skate, Crimped, 
Crimped Skate, with Brown 

Butter Sauce, . 
White-Bait, . 
Potted Herrings, 
To Dress Fresh Herrings, 
Scolloped Oysters, . 
Scolloped Mussels, . 
Scolloped Cockles, . 



Paor 
27 
27 
27 
28 

28 
28 

29 
29 
29 
30 
30 
30 
31 
31 
31 
31 
82 
32 
32 
33 
33 
33 
33 
33 
34 
34 
34 
34 
34 
35 
36 
35 
35 
36 
36 
37 
37 
37 
87 

38 
38 
38 
38 
39 
39 
39 



240 



l7idex. 



SAUCES. 

riain Butter Sauce, . . 40 

White Bechamel Sauce, . . 40 

Cream Bechamel Sauce, . . 41 

White Sauce, .... 41 

Brown Butter Sauce, . . 41 

Cardinal Sauce, ... 41 

Genoese Sauce, ... 41 

Tomato Sauce, ... 42 

Brown Caper Sauce, . . 42 

White Caper Sauce, . . 42 

Piquant Sauce, . . . 42 

Italian Sauce, . . . . 4d 

Maitre D'Hotel Sauce, . . 43 

Bavigotte Sauce, ... 43 

Keform Sauce, ... 44 

Robert Sauce, .... 44 

Lobster Sauce, ... 44 

Indian Sauce, .... 45 

Shrimp Sauce, ... 45 

Mussel Sauce, ... 45 

Anchovy Sauce, . . . 46 

White Oyster Sauce, . , _ Ah 

Brown Oyster Sauce, . . 40 

Egg Sauce, .... 46 

Parsley Sauce, . . . 46 

The Prince of Wales' Sauce, . 46 

Dutch Sauce, .... 47 

Clear Tarragron Sauce, . . 47 

Mayonaise Sauce, ... 47 

Soubise-Sauce, ... 48 

Cardinal Sauce, ... 48 

Mustard Sauce, ... 48 

Bread Sauce, . . . . 48 

Matelotte Sauce, ... 49 

St Clair Sauce, ... 49 

Sauce for Trout, ... 49 

Green Gooseberry Sauce, . 49 

Fennel Sauce, • . . . 50 

Port Wine Sauce for Wild Ducks, 50 

Allemande Sauce, ... 50 

Brone Sauce, .... 51 

Salmis Sauce, .... 51 

Mushroom Sauce, ... 51 

Sauce for Boiled Fowls, . . 51 

Horse-radish Sauce, . . 51 

Celery Sauce, ... 52 

Shallot Gravy, ... 52 

Bussian Sauce, ... 52 

Mint Sauce, . >« . . 53 

Apple Sauce, .... 53 

FISH ENTRilES. 

Puff-Paste for Patties, . . 58 



Oyster Patties, 
Frittered Oysters, 
Curried Oysters, 
Oyster Cutlets, 
Oyster Croquets, 
Scolloped Oysters, 
Scolloped Mussels, 
Scolloped Lobster, 
Lobster Croquets, 
Lobster Loaf, . 
Lobster Cutlets, 
Bouches of LobiBter, 

MEAT ENTrIsES. 

Fillets of Beef, 

Beef Olives, 

Rolled Beef CoUops, 

Fillets of Beef, with Mushroom 

Sauce, . . 
Ox Palates, Brazed, 
Ox Palates, Stuffed, 
Ox Palates, Curried, 
Veal Cutlets, . 
Veal Cutlets, a la Financiere, 
Veal Frincandelles, 
Veal Sweetbreads, with White 

Mushroom Sauce, 
Sweetbreads Larded with 

Truffles, 
Sweetbreads with White Sauce 
Sweetbreads, a la Toulouse, 
To Dress Sweetbreads Plain, 
Cutlet, a la Jardiniere. 
Mutton or Lamb Cutlets, with 

I'omato Sauce, 
To Prepare a Macedoine of 

Vegetables, 
Reform Chips, 

Mutton Cutlets, a la Reforme, 
Soubise Cutlets, 
Mutton Cutlets, a la Vicomtesse 
Fillets of Mutton, Stewed, 
Tendons of Veal, 
Curried Tendons of Veal, 
Fillets of Chicken, Frittered, 
Frying Batter, 
Cream of Chicken, • 
Cream of Rabbit, 
Quenelles of Chicken. 
Quenelles made from Cold Roast 

Fowl, 
White Sauce for above. 
Cushions of Chicken, 
Petite Chard Rabbit, 



Pagb 
56 
56 
67 
57 
57 
58 
58 
69 
59 
60 
61 
61 



63 

63 
64 

64 
65 
65 
66 
66 
67 
67 

68 

68 
68 
69 
69 
69 



70 
71 
71 
71 
72 
73 
73 
74 
74 
76 
75 
76 
76 

77 
77 

it 
78 



Index. 



241 



Paob 

Dry Curry, .... 78 
Chicken or Partridge, a la St 

Clair, .... 79 

Creme de Volaille, ... 79 
Boman Pie, . . . .79 

Game Quenelle, ... 80 

Dutch Frieandoan, ... 80 

Force Meat, .... 80 

Bissoles, 81 

Curried Chicken, ... 81 

Fricassee of Chicken, . . 82 
Fillets of Fowl, with Asparagus 

Peas. .... 82 

Italian Pigeon Stew, . . 83 

Salmis of Grouse, ... 83 

Grouse Cutlets, Glengarry, . 84 

Bonnes-Bouches, ... 84 

Vol-au-vent, a la Financiere, . 86 

Financiere Sauce, ... 85 
Calf's Brains in Cases, ^u 

Gratin, .... 86 

Calf Feet, Fried, ... 87 

Indian Pilau, .... 87 

Croquets of Macaroni, . . 87 

Russian Elromeskys, . . 88 

Kinglets, 88 

Bissoles, 89 

Croquets, . . . . 89 

POULTBr. 

To Boast a Turkey, . . 91 

Plain Stuffing, ... 92 
Chestnut Stuffing for Brazed 

Turkey, .... 92 

Boiled Turkey, ... 92 

Brazed Turkey, ... 92 

Boiled Turkey, a la Yorkshire, 93 

To Boil Fowls, ... 94 

To Boast a Fowl, ... 94 

To Boast Chickens, . . 94 
Chickens and Tongue, a la 

Macedoine, ... 95 

Boiled Capon, .... 95 

Capon, Brazed, ... 95 

To Boast a Goose, ... 96 

Brazed Goose, a la Jardiniere, 96 

Brazed Swan, .... 97 

Stewed Duck, with Green Peas, 97 

Pigeons for a Bemove, . . 98 

Turkey Stew, .... 98 

BEEFS. 

Boast Sirloin of Beef, . . 99 

Boast Bibs of Beef, . . 99 



Page 
How to make Yorkshire Pudding, 100 

Boiled Bound of Beef, . 100 

Boiled Aich-Bone of Beef, . 101 

Spiced Beef, . . . .101 

Pressed Beef, . . . .101 
Beef Steaks. .... 102 

Minced Coliops, . . . 103 
Ox Tongue, .... 103 

How to Make Glaze, . . 103 

How to Cook Tripe, . . 104 
Fried Tripe, .... 104 

TEAL. 

Boast Fillet of Veal, . . 105 

Loin of Veal, Brazec^ . . 105 

Boast Loin of Veal, . . 10^ 

Loin of Veal, a la Creme, . 107 

MUTTON. 

To Boast a Saddle of Mutton, 108 

To Boast a Gijfot of Mutton, . 108 

Boiled Leg of Mutton, . . 108 

Brazed Leg of Mutton, . . 109 

Stuffed Shoulder of Mutton, . 109 

Mutton Haricot, . . . 110 

Irish Stew, . . . .110 

Scotch Haggis, . . .110 

Broiled KidjQeys, . . . Ill 

LAMB. 

Roast Forequarter of Lamb, . 112 

Boiled Leg of Lamb, . . 112 

Saddle of Lamb, Brazed, . 112 

Shoulder of Lamb, Grilled, . 113 

POBK. 

Boast Leg of Pork, . . 114 

Boiled Leg of Pork, . . 114 

To Boast a Loin of Pork, . 116 

To Boast Sucking Pig, . .115 

Spare Bibs of Pork, . , ■ 115 

How to make Brone, . . 116 

Pork Sausages, . . . 116 

To Cure Hams, as in Ireland, 117 

VENISON. 

Boast Haunch of Venison, . 118 

Venison Chops, . . . 119 

Cutlets of Venison, . . .119 

Haricot of Venison, . . 119 

Heart of Bed Deer^ Boasted, . 120 

Venison Liver, Fried, . .120 

Venison Puddings, . . 121 



242 



Index, 



PIES. 
Venison Pasty, 
Beef-steak Pie, 
Veal and Ham Pie, 
Sbeep-head Pie, 
Pigeon Pie, 
Grouse Pie, 
Lark Pie, 
Blackbird Pie, 
Giblet Pie, 
Hare Pie, 
Babbit Pie, 
Beef-steak Pudding, 
Mutton Pudding, 
Kidney Puddingy 
Small Mutton Pies, 
Shepherd^s Pie, 



VEGETABLES. 

To BoU Oardoon, 

To Cook Tomatoes, 

To Boil Globe Artichokes, 

Salsify, .... 

White Beans, . 

Cauliflowers, . 

To Dress Jerusalem Artichokes, 

American Yams 

Vegetable Marrow, 

To Boil Young Turnips, 

Young Carrots, 

To Boil Sea-Kale, ... . '-. 

Onions, with White Slwice, * 

Celery, with Brown Sauce, 

To Boil Cabbages, . 

To Dress Beet-Hoot, 

To Boil Spinach, 

To Boil Asparagus, ** 

To Boil Green Peas, 

GAME. , 



To Boast a Pheasant, 

Potato Bibattds, 

To Boast Grouse and 

Game, . 
To Boast Guinea-Fowl, 
Woodcock and Snipe, 
Boast Larks, . 
Pea-Hens, 
Green Goose, • 
Wild Duck, 
Boast Partridgetfy.'?^ 
How to Boast Quails, 
Boast Pigeons, 



Bhick 



Paqb 



22 
22 
23 
23 
24 
24 
24 
26 
25 
26 
26 
26 
27 
28 
28 
29 



80 
30 
30 
31 
31 
31 
31 
32 
32 
32 
32 
33 
33 
33 
34 
34 
34 
34 
36 



86 
37 

37 
37 
37 
88 
38 
39 
39 
89 
40 
40 



« Paob 

Boast Hare, .... 140 

Stuffing for Hares, . . .141 

Boast Babbits, ... 141 

SALADS. 

Aspic Jelly, for Salads, . . 143 

Oyster Salad, .... 144 

Salmon Salad, . . .146 

Genoese Salad, . . . 146 

Bobert Salad, .... 146 

Lobster Salad, . . . 146 

Moyonaise of Chicken, . . 147 

Galantine of Poularde, , , 148 
Galantine of Poularde, with 

Cream Bechamel Sauce, , 148 

Pheasant Salad, , , , 149 

Grouse Salad, , , , 149 

Bussian Salad, , , , 149 

Salad, a la Bachel, , , . 160 

Cucumber Salad, . , . 160 

Spanish Salad, , , , 150 

Potato Salad, , . ,161 

Beet-root Salady . . , 151 

SANDWICHES, 

Fish Sandwiches, , . , 152 

The Prince's Sandwich, . , 162 

Irish Sandwiches, , . , 163 

Adelaide Sandwiches, , , 153 

Egg Sandwiches, , , , 153 

Victoria Sandwiches, , . 154 

SUNDBY PBEPABATIONS, 

Potted Lobster, , , , 155 

Potted Fowl and Ham, , . 155 

Potted Pheasant, • . , 155 

Potted Spiced Beef, . . 156 

To Clarify Butter, , , , 166 

To Pry Parsley, , , , 167 

Spinach Greening, . , , 167 

SAVOUEIES, 

Savoury Eggs, , , , 158 

Boasted Oysters, , , , 158 

Black Puddings, , , , 169 

Oyster Toasts, , , ,159 

Marrow Toast, , , , 169 

Ham Toast, , . , , 160 

Tomato Cheese, , , 160 

Sayoury Omelette, , , ,160 

Cheese Omelette, •' . ,161 

Cheese Pudding, , , , 161 



1 



•v^ 



Index. 



243 



Ganapees ofAnchoyj, 
Cream Cheese Fritters, 
Macaroni Cheese, , 
Cheese Souffle, , 

Cheese Bamakins, , 
Cheese Fritters, , 
Cheese Straws, , 
VervBich Cheese Straws, 
Cauliflowers, with Parmesan 

Cheese, , , 
Large Truffles, , 
Souffle Potatoes, , 

PUDDINGS 

Paradise Pudding, , 
Pompelian Pudding, 
Fig Pudding, , 
Northumberland Pudding, 
Eve's Pudding, , 

Prince of Wales* Pudding, 
Bussian Pudding, , 
Spanish Pudding, • 
Baspin Pudding, , 
Cups Pudding, , 

Cocoa-nut Pudding, 
Chestnut Pudding, , 
Sauce for above, 
Caramel Pudding, , 
Carrot Pudding, , 
Marmalade Pudding, 
Lemon Pudding, , 
Wine Sauce for above. 
Lemon Pudding, Baked, 
Orange Tart, , , 
Mince Pies, , , 
Plum Pudding, , 
Sauce for above, , 
Cabinet Pudding, , 
College Puddings, . 
Custard Pudding, 
Bread and Butter Pudding, 
La Perde Pudding, 
Jam Boll, , , 

Gorman PufiFs, , 

Duchess Loaves, 
Cheese- cakes, , , 
Almond Cheese-cakes, 
Conservative Pudding, 
Whip Sauce for above, 
Transparent Pudding, 
Potato Pudding, . 
Tapioca Pudding, « 
Pancakes, , , 



Paob 
162 
162 
162 
168 
168 
164 
164 
164 

164 
166 
165 



166 

166 

167 

167 

167 

168 

168 

168 

169 

169 

169 

170 

170 

170 

171 

171 

171 

171 

171 

172 

172 

178 

178 

174 

174 

174 

176 

176 

176 

176 

176 

177 

177 

178 

178 

178 

178 

179 

179 





Paob 


Sweet Omelette, 


179 


Semolina Pudding, , . , 


180 


Louis Phillipe's Pudding, 


180 


Crystal Palace Pudding, 


181 


Pudding of Cream, . , , 


181 


Fi*ult Beverage, , 


182 


Strawberry Souffle, , 


182 


Potato Souffle, . , , 


182 


Fruit Souffle, , , . . 


183 


Souffle of Oranges, • 


183 


Apple Charlotte, , , , 


. 184 


Apple Fritters, , , 


184 


Orange Fritters, , , , 


185 


Apple Shape, , , • « 


185 


Apple Tart, , , , , 

Shape of Bice, 

Shape of Sea Moss Farina, 


186 


186 


, 187 


Devonshire Cream, 


. 187 


Stewed Prunes, 


187 


Shape of Bhubarb, . 


188 


Shape of Green Gooseberries, , 


188 


Bussian (Charlotte, . 


188 


Devonshire Junket, 


189 


General Satisfaction Pudding, 


189 


Apple Marmalade, . 


. 190 


Meringues, 


. 190 


Icing for Cakes, 


191 


Compote of Apples, 


191 


Syrup for above, 


. 191 


Compote of Apricots, 


. 192 


Compote* of Chestnuts, 


192 


Compote of C^ri-ies, 


. 192 


Compote of Peaches, 


. 193 


JELLIES, 




Cairs Feet Je^ly, . 


. 194 


Wine Jelly, * . , . 


. 195 


Champagne Jelly, . 


. 196 


Claret Jellv, 
Bussian Je\ly, . 


. 196 


. 196 


Maraschino Jelly, . 


196 


To Clarify Gelatine, 


. 197 


Bum Jelly, . , , 


. 197 


Clear Orange Jelly, 


. 197 


Oranges filled with Jelly, 


. 198 


Lemon Jelly, . 


. 198 


Cherry Jelly, . 
StrawDerry Jelly, . 


. 199 


. 199 


Grape Jelly, , 


. 199 


Lemon Sponge, 


, 199 


CBKAMS. 




Velvet Cream, 


. 200 



244 



Index. 



Peach Cream, 
Apricot Cream, 
Raspberry Cream, 
Orange Cream, 
Coffee Cream, 
Chocolate Cream, 
Italian Cream, 
Blanc Mange, . 
Blanc Mange, with Jelly, 
Costard, in Cups, . 

ICES. 
Arrowroot Pudding, Iced, 
Custard Pudding, Iced, 
Iced Souffle, 
Cream Souffle, Iced, 
Iced Coffee, 
Coffee Cream Ice, « 
Chopolate Cream Ice, 
Brown Bread Ice, , 
Baspberry Cream Ice, 
Grape Water Ice, • 
Cherry "Water Ice, . 
Raspberry Water Ice, 
Orange Water Ice, . 
Lemon Water Ice, . 
Pine- Apple Water Ice, 



CAKES AND BISCUITS. 

Plum Cake, 
Seed Cake, 
Benekerry Cake, 
Diet Loaves, 
Savoy Cake, , 
Rice Cake, 
Phantasy Cake, 
Madeira Cake, 
Sultana Cake, . 
Petticoat Tails, 
Vinegar Cake, 
Snow Cake, ' . 
Scotch Bun, 
Patent Flour, . 
Soda Cake, ' 
Arrowroot Cake, 
Sponge Cake^ . 
Large Sponge Cake, 
Small Sponge Cakes, 
Gingerbread Cake, 
Plain Gingerbread, 
.Plain Shortbread, , 



Paok 
200 
200 
201 
201 
202 
202 
202 
202 
203 
203 



204 
205 
205 
206 
206 
206 
2»7 
207 
207 
207 
208 
208 
208 
208 
209 



210 
210 
211 
211 
212 
212 
213 
213 
214 
214 
214 
216 
215 
216 
216 
216 
217 
217 
217 
218 
218 
219 



Small Rice Cakes, . 
Passion Biscuits, 
Arrowroot Biscuits, 
Dean of Ripou's Biscuits, 
Queen Drops, . 
Chocolate Biscuits, . 
Ratafia Biscuits, 
Ginger Biscuits, , 
Ginger Nuts, . ^ . 
Ginger Cream Biscuits, 
Orange Biscuits, 



JAMS AND JELLIES 

Peach Jam, 
Apricot Jam, . 
Cherry Jam, , • 
Green Gage (Plum) Jam, 
Gooseberry Jam, 
Black Currant Jam, 
Raspberry Jam, 
Strawberry Jai, 
Rhubarb Jam, , 
Khubarb Jelly, 
Whortleberry Jam, 
Red Currant Jelly,. 
Apple Jelly, 
Orange Jelly, • 
Parsley Jelly, . 
Orange Marmalade, 
Transparent Marmalade, 



219 
220 
220 
221 
221 
221 
222 
222 
222 
223 
223 



225 
225 
225 
226 
226 
226 
227 
227 
227 
227 
228 
228 
228 
229 
229 
229 
230 



MISCELLANEOUS RECIPES. 



Elderberry Wine, , « 
Mixed Fruit Wine, 
Bramble Vinegar, . 
Raspberry or Strawberry Syrup, 
Preserved Cherries, 
Brandy Cherries, , . 
Bottled Gooseberries, 
Preserved Cucumbers^ , 
Bottled Currants, , , 
Pickled Cauliflower, 
Pickled Red Cabbages,'. , 
Mushroom Catsup, , , 
Cream Cheese, . . 

Preserved Eggs, 
To Sponge Black Silk,, . 
To Clean Hair Brushes,., . 
Wash for the Hair, , 
Pomade for the Hair, 
Gold-Coloured Ink,. 



231 
232 
232 
232 
233 
233 
234 
234 
235 
235 
236 
236 
236 
237 
237 
237 
237 
238 
238 



DUNN AND WBIQHT, PKINXfiaS, GLASGOW. 



■M 



* • 



