TO PROLONG 



LIFE 



Digitized by the Internet Archive 

in 2007 with funding from 

IVIicrosoft Corporation 



http://www.archive.org/details/canweprolonglifeOOevanuoft 



CAN WE PROLONG LIFE? 



Prepar'm^ for the Press. 



CONSUMPTION. 

Jl ^e-inbcsttQiitiou qI xxq Cause. 



SHOWING THE 



DIETETIC AND THERAPEUTICAL TREATMENT FOE ITS 
PREVENTION AND CURE. 



CHAS. W. DE LACY EVAN'S, M.E.C.S., Eng. 



London : BaiUiere, Tindall, & Cox, King William Street, Strand. 

[PARIS AND MADRID.] 



K^^- 



CA^ WE PEOLO^a LIFE? 



AN INQUIRY INTO THE CAUSE OF "OLD AGE" AND 

"NATURAL DEATH," SHOWING THE DIET AND 

AGENTS BEST ADAPTED FOR A LENGTHENED 

PROLONGATION OF EXISTENCE. 



CHAS. W. DE LACY EVANS. M.R.C.S.E. 





L0:N'D0]S' : 

BAILLIERE, TINDALL, AND COX, 

KING WILLIAM STEEET, STEAND. 

[PARIS AND MADRID.] 

1879. 

{All Rights Reserved.) 



^kt0 Moxk is Jlebicat^ii 

TO THE 

HEDICAL AND SURGICAL STAFF 

OP 

ST. THOMAS'S HOSPITAL; 

AS A TOKEN OF EEGARD 

FOE THE MANY BENEFITS RECEIVED FROM ONE AND ALL 

DURING A STUDENT LIFE 

AT THE 

MEDICAL AND SURGICAL COLLEGE 

OF THE ABOVE INSTITUTION. 



CHAS. W. DE LACY EVANS. 



PREFACE. 



In every being througlioufc animated nature, from the- 
most insignificant insect to the most enlightened, en- 
nobled, and highly-developed human being, we notice 
a deeply-rooted love for one possession before all 
others, and that is the possession of Life, What will 
not a man give to preserve his life ? What would he- 
not give to prolong it ? The value of riches, titles,- 
honour, power and worldly prospects are as nought 
compared with the value which every sane man, how- 
ever humble, and even miserable, places on the preser- 
vation of his life. 

Human life, physically considered, is a chemico- 
animal operation ; and whatever it may be as an ab- 
stract principle, the manifestations and phenomena of 
life are dependent upon matter in a state of change by 
the united powers of Nature, and are embodied in a 
few elementary and grand physical and chemical pro- 
cesses. 



Vm PEE FACE. 

The laws of life and of deatli, looked upon in this 
light, form the basis of a fixed science — the MACRO- 
BIOTIC, or the art of prolonging life. 

There is, however, a distinction to be made between 
this art and the science of medicine, but the one is 
auxiliary to the other. 

There is a state of body which we term health ; jplus 
or minus divergences from this path we call disease. 
The object of medicine is to guide these variations to 
a given centre of bodily equilibrium ; but the object of 
the macrobiotic art is by the founding of dietetic and 
other rules, on general principles, to preserve the body 
in health, and thereby prolong life. 

In the present work the author has attempted to 
go beyond this, by inquiring into the causes which 
have a share in producing the changes which are 
observed as age advances, and, further, by pointing 
out a means of checking them. 

^' He who writes, or speaks, or meditates, without 
facts as landmarks to his understanding, is like a 
mariner cast on the wide ocean, without a compass or 
a rudder to his ship.^' If he conceives an idea, a 
phantom of his own imagination, and attempts to 
make it a reality by accepting only those facts or 
phenomena which accord with his premature concep- 
tion, ignoring those which contradict this shadow or 
idea, but which may nevertheless be demonstrably 
true, he creates a theonjj which may be incorrect, and 



PEEFACE. IX 

if SO it is doomed^ sooner or later^ to destruction. 
Altliougli it possibly required but a few hours to con- 
struct, centuries may elapse before it is finally de- 
stroyed. The founder of an erroneous hypothesis 
creates a monster, which only serves to combat and 
stifle Truth. The struggle can last for a time only, 
for Truth must of necessity ultimately prevail. 

'^ The true philosopher always seeks to explain and 
illustrate nature by means of facts, of phenomena ; 
that is, by experiments, the devising and discovery of 
which is his task, and by which he causes the object 
of his investigation to speak as it were intelligibly to 
him ; but it is by carefully observing and arranging 
all such facts as are in connection with it, that insight 
into its nature is attained. For we must never forget 
that every phenomenon has its reason, every effect its 
cause.'' — Bacon. 

^' The history of science gives us the consoling 
assurance that we shall succeed, by pursuing the path 
of experiment and observation, in unveiling the 
mysteries of organic life, and that we shall be enabled 
to obtain decided, definite answers to the question — 
What are causes which have a share in producing vital 
phenomena V — Ltebig. 

^^Let no man be alarmed at the multitude of the 
objects presented to his attention ; for it is this, on 
the contrary, which ought rather to awaken hope . . . 
If there were any one amongst us who, when inter- 



X PREFACE. 

rogated respecting tlie objects of nature, was always 
prepared to answer by facts, tbe discovery of causes 
and the foundation of all sciences would be tbe work 
of a few years/' — Bacon. 

The purpose of the author in publishing this work is 
to make known the results of inquiries into the causes 
of what is termed the " decay of nature,^^ not theo- 
retically or by accepting only those facts which accord 
with a preconceived idea, but by collecting facts bear- 
ing on the subject, and making clear and straight- 
forward deductions therefrom. 

It is not written for the purpose of conveying a sig- 
nification of man-'s individual greatness, nor of ignoring 
a Supreme Being. It is our increasing knowledge of 
the phenomena of nature, and the laws by which they 
are regulated, which makes us conscious of, and teaches 
us to recognise, the perfection, the greatness, and un- 
fathomable wisdom of an all-wise CREATOR, whose 
works and actions become daily more manifest in their 
illimitable impressions, the sublimity and greatness of 
which the human mind is not capable of conceiving. 
The most untiring imagination — the most exalted mind 
—will contemplate images and fashion forms, which, 
when compared with reality, appear but as bubbles of 
brilliant and changing colours — to vanish, leaving the 
contemplator in forced recognition of his own frailties 
and imperfections, but not enlightened on the in- 
scrutable wisdom of an infinitely higher Being. 



PREFACE. XI 

This work is founded upon a paper on " Ossification 
tlie Cause of ^ Old Age/ ^^ read by the author before 
the St. Thomas's Hospital Medical and Physical 
Societ}^^ on Oct. 26, 1876. 

The author first conceived the idea of the possible 
prolongation of existence from a publication entitled 
'^ Patriarchal Longevity/' by '^ Parallax/' and most of 
the instances of longevity are taken from " Records of 
Longevity/' by Easton and Bailey, and Hufeland's 
" Art of Prolonging Life/' edited by Erasmus Wilson, 
F.R.S. 

It has long been the opinion of scientific men, that 
by suitable diet and regularity, the blessings of life 
may be enjoyed in fair health to a ^*' green old age." 
The purpose of this work is to show that we may for a 
time curb the causes which are visible in effect as age 
advances, and thus prolong life, and further, that by 
other means, founded upon simple fact, we may ac- 
complish this for a lengthened period. 

The author's attempt to deal with a matter of such 
vast importance as the prolongation of life will neces- 
sarily subject him to severe and probably adverse 
criticism. In the first edition of a book hurriedly 
written in moments snatched from the turmoil of a 
general practice, many minor errors are sure to be 
found; but as the author takes facts for a beacon, 
there is no error in principle. He will only ask those 
who criticise to imagine themselves for the time in the 



XU PREFACE. 

position of Astrea, the G-oddess of Justice, and not to 
weigh the evidence with one scale heavily laden with 
prejudice. 

The purpose of the author is to help to benefit man's 
existence : if he partially accomplishes this object — if 
in casting, as it were, a widow's mite into the well- 
stocked coffers of literature, he can claim to have even 
slightly benefited humanity, the reward he asks will be 
granted. 

CHAS. W. DE LACY EYANS. 

11, Fiilhmn Roat f, 
Feb. 1879. 






CAN WE PEOLONG LIFE? 



CHAPTER I. ^^' 

THE CAUSE OP ^^ OLD AGE " AND ^^ NATURAL DEATH.''^ 

With all our physiological^ anatomical^ and pliilo- 
sopliical discoveries, there are left many questions * at 
present not solved ; amongst others^ the action of the 
brain, thought, motion, life, and the possible prolonga- 
tion of existence. 

^' Nature speaks to us in a peculiar language, in the 
language of phenomena. She answers at all times 
questions which are put to her j and such questions are 
experiments.'^ 

In ^^ old age '' the body differs materially from youth 
in actions, sensibility, function, and composition. The 
active, fluid, sensitive, and elastic body of youth, 
gradually gives place to induration, rigidity, and 
decrepitude, which terminates in ^' natural death." 

In nature there are distinct reasons for every change, 

1 



2 CAN WE PROLONG LIFE ? 

for development, growth, decomposition, and death. 
If with our minds free from theory, and unbiassed by 
hypotheses, we ask nature the cause of these changes, 
she will surely answer us. Let us ask her the cause of 
these differences between youth and old age. Why 
the various functions of the body gradually cease ? 
Why we become ^^ old '' and die ? 

The most marked feature in old age is that a 
fibrinous, gelatinous, and earthy deposit has taken 
place in the system; the latter being composed chiefly 
of phosphate and carbonate of lime, with small quanti- 
ties of sulphate of lime, magnesia, and traces of other 
earths. 

Among physiologists and medical philosophers gene- 
rally, the idea prevails that the " ossification " (or the 
gradual accumulation of earthy salts in the system) 
which characterises '' natural death,^^ is the result of 
'*^old age," but investigation shows that such an ex- 
planation is unsatisfactory. For in the first place, if 
" old age " (which is really the number of years a 
person has lived) is the cause of the ossification which 
accompanies it, then, if ^'^like causes produce like 
effects," all of the same age should be found in the 
same state of ossification, but investigation proves 
beyond all doubt that such is not the case. How 
common it is to see individuals about fifty years 
old, as aged and decrepit as others at seventy or 
eighty ! 

We will first inquire into the differences found by 
investigation between youth and old age, in the many 
structures and organs of the body. 

Bone, — The average constituents of bone at about 



CAN WE PROLONG LIFE ? 3 

the prime of life, according to an analysis by Berzelius^ 



are : 



Organic matter, gelatin and bloodvessels 
, Phospbate of lime 
Inorganic I Carbonate or lime 
or < Fluoride of calcium 

Eartby matter I Phosphate of magnesia . 

Soda and chloride of sodium 



33-30 

51-04 

11-30 

2-00 

1-16 

1-20 



100-00 



Thus we see that 66*7 per cent., or about two- 
thirds, are composed of inorganic or earthy compounds. 
The organic or gelatinous portion contains about 10 
per cent, of water (if recent) . 

Compact bony substance contains more earthy matter 
than the spongy bone; and, proportionally, more 
phosphate of lime to the carbonate than the latter. 

If we take the bones of a childy of a young man in 
the prime of life, and of an oldi man, and subject a 
given weight of each of them to a simple analysis, the 
earthy constituents of which may be easily obtained 
by subjecting them to a strong heat, with free access 
of air, by which means the animal or organic matter 
is entirely consumed, the earthy part remaining, and 
carefully weigh the residue of earthy salts, what do we 
find? 

That the bones of the child contain a certain amount 
of earthy compounds (according to its age) ; that the 
bones of the young man contain a larger proportion of 
earthy compounds than those of the child, and that 
the bones of the old man contain a larger proportion 

1—2 



4 CAN WE PROLONG LIFE ? 

than either. If we also take the stages intermediate 
between childhood and manhood^ on the one hand^ and 
manhood and old age on the other, we obtain the same 
result, clearly showing that from some cause the 
amount of earthy compounds in the bones gradually 
increases from birth to old age. 

^^ According to Schreger and others, there is a con- 
siderable increase in the earthy constituents of bones 
with advancing years. Dr. Eees states that this is 
especially marked in the long bones and the bones of 
the head, which, in the foetus, do not contain the excess 
of earthy matter found in those of the adult. . . . 
Thus in the child, where the animal matter predomi- 
nates, it is not uncommon to find, after an injury to the 
bones, that they become bent, or only partially broken, 
from the large amount of flexible animal matter which 
they contain. Again also in aged people, where the 
bones contain a large proportion of earthy matter, the 
animal matter at the same time being deficient in 
quantity and quality, the bones are more brittle, their 
elasticity is destroyed, and hence fracture takes place 
more readily.^^ — Gray. 

From embryonic life to birth a gradual process of 
ossification is going on, and eyen at birth the epiphyses 
of most of the cylindrical bones, all the bones of the 
carpus, the five smaller ones of the tarsus, the patella, 
sesamoid bones, and the last pieces of the coccyx are 
still unossified. 

From birth this process of ossification still continu- 
ing, the epiphyses become united to their shafts, the 
ossific centres of the vertebrae and cranium gradually 
join to form their respective bones, and it is not till 



CAN WE PROLONG LIFE ? 5 

about the thirtietli year tliat tlie full development of 
tlie bones of the skeleton is attained. From the prime 
of life we trace onward this gradual process of ossifica- 
tion ; the inter- vertebral cartilages become shrunken, 
hard, and inelastic, causing in old age diminished 
stature and an inclination to bend forwards ; in some 
instances the sutures of the cranium are gradually 
obliterated, and the once separate bones unite; the 
cartilages of the ribs, and articular ends of bones 
harden and ossify; the bones of the sternum unite; 
from loss of teeth changes are observed in the shape of 
the lower jaw ; the segments of the hyoid bone become 
united together, forming in old age a single bone ; the 
cartilages of the larynx become ossified; even the 
ligaments of joints become so hardened, that their 
former pliability is usurped by the limited, awkward, 
and decrepit movements of old age. 

Thus we find that the bones at this period of life 
contain proportionately more earthy matter than those 
in youth. 

Muscles. — As age advances the muscles diminish in 
bulk, the fibres become rigid and less contractile, be- 
coming paler or even yellowish in colour, and are 
not influenced by stimuli to the same extent as in 
youth. 

Tendons, and adjacent portions of muscular tissue 
and aponeuroses become hardened and even ossified. 
There is also a diminution in the fluid in the sheaths 
of the tendons. 

If we analyse a given weight of muscular tissue 
taken from an old man, and the same weight taken 
from a young man, we find that the former contains 



6 CAN WE PROLONG LIFE ? 

more earfchy matter tliaii the latter. Any structure or 
organ of the body will give the same result^ i.e., that 
there exists throughout the system more earthy matter 
in old age than in adolescence, and that this earthy 
matter has been gradually accumulating from the first 
stage of existence. 

Brain. — We will next briefly consider the alterations 
in the brain and nerve centres in old age. 

The brain — the organ which presides over every 
thought and action of our material bodies^ which con- 
stitutes one of the great central masses of the nervous 
system, and which is in constant telegraphic commu- 
nication with every structure and part of the body, 
through the medium of the spinal column and nerves, 
the latter of which are so wonderfully distributed by 
their minute ramifications, that there is not a point on 
the whole surface of the body, the size of a pin^s head, 
which we could wound, without the brain being at once 
cognisant of the fact — differs from most other organs 
and structures of the body in containing phosphorus, 
in an unoxidised form, upon which subject we will 
treat hereafter. 

The brain grows or increases in size up to about 
forty years of age, when it reaches its maximum 
weight. After this period there is a gradual and slow 
diminution in weight of about one ounce in every ten 
years. 

According to Cazanvieilh, the longitudinal diameter 
of the brain of an old man, compared with that of a 
young man, is six inches one line, French measure, for 
the former, and six inches four lines for the latter ; 
whilst the transverse diameter is four inches ten lines 



CAN WE PEOLONG LIFE ? 



in the old man, and five inclies in the young man. The 
same authority gives the comparative measurements of 
diiJerent parts of the brain at the three periods of life, 
puberty, prime of life, and old age, as under : 



I 





PERSONS AT 


PRIME OF 


OLD 




PUBERTY. 


LIFE. 


AGE. 




in. Ins. 


in. Ins. 


in. Ins. 


Thai, optici 


1 54 


1 6 


1 41 


Corp. striata 


2 6 


2 6 


2 44 


Corp. callosum 


3 44 


3 5 


2 7 


Mesocephalon 


(length 10 
(breadth 1 


11 

1 1 


104 

] 


Cerebellum 


j length 2 2 
t breadth 3 9 


2 3 

3 9 


2 3 

3 9 



Thus it appears that with the exception of the cere- 
bellum (or animal brain), every part of the encephalon 
diminishes in size in old age. Further, the convolu- 
tions of the brain become less and less distinct and 
prominent. 

Membranes of the Brain. — The dura mater is often 
found apparently collapsed or corrugated, particularly 
in the very aged, when little fluid is found beneath it ; 
it is frequently found to be thickened and indurated, 
and ossific deposits on the arachnoid surface are very 
common. These are generally described as resulting 
from a chronic inflammatory action, but where during 
life there have been no symptoms of any inflammatory 
disease, we must put it down as concomitant to " old 
age," or that gradual process of ossification which 



8 CAN WE PROLONG LIFE ? 

either accompanies or causes such a state of the 
system. 

Thickening and opacity of the arachnoid are often 
found in old people^ the fluid secreted being sometimes 
turbid and albuminous ; the membrane is sometimes 
found to have an abnormal dryness, and osseous deposits 
sometimes, though rarely, occur ; but a roughness or 
grittiness, giving the sensation of fine sand under the 
finger, is more often met with, this roughness being 
due to earthy deposits. The choroid plexus is some- 
times in a varicose state, and the membranes lining 
the ventricles are found thick and opaque. 

We now come to the most important change of all, 
which fully accounts for the many differences in the 
brain existing between youth and old age, that is, the 
changes in the bloodvessels supplying it. The arteries 
in old age become thickened and lessened in calibre 
from fibrinous, gelatinous, and earthy deposits. This 
is more easily detected in the larger vessels ; but all, 
even to the most minute subdivisions, undergo the 
same gradual change. Thus the supply of blood to 
the brain becomes less and less ; hence the diminution 
in size of the organ from the prime of life to old age ; 
hence the functions of the brain become gradually 
impaired ; the vigorous brain of middle life gradually 
giving place to loss of memory, confusion of ideas, 
inability to follow a long current of thought, notions 
oblivious of the past and regardless as to the future, 
carelessness of momentary impressions, softening of 
the brain, and that imbecility so characteristic of 
extreme age. 

In the brain, ^'the arteries most commonly found 



CAN WE PROLONG LIFE ? ^ 

ossified are the internal carotids and tihe basilar ; but 
the circle of Willis, and the vessels departing from it, 
as well as the arterial ramifications which appear 
between the convolutions, and come out upon the sur- 
face, often participate more or less in this morbid 
state. Cartilaginous degeneration is still more exten- 
sive, and seems to precede the ossific deposits. 
Cartilaginous and ossific formations in the coats of 
arteries of the brain occasion irregular distribution of 
blood, and interrupted or imperfect supplies of this 
fluid to some parts of the organ, disposing to aneurismal 
dilatations, to rupture, and consequently to the pro- 
duction of apoplexy and paralysis/' — Copland. 

" Ossification is detected (with the naked eye) only 
in the arteries ; but it occurs in them very frequently, 
and to a very great extent, particularly in advanced 
mQ.''—lhid. 

" After the age offiftij, the walls of the bloodvessels 
are very liable to ' degeneration.' The aorta, in parti- 
cular, becomes dilated, the elasticity of its walls 
impaired, and its inner surface roughened by large, 
irregular, whitish, elevated patches of morbid matter, 
lying immediately beneath a superficial layer of the 
inner coat, and composed of a mixture of earthy and 
fatty matter. ... In the smaller arteries, the ossifica- 
tion proceeds much more uniformly, and they become 
at last more or less completely converted into smooth 
hony tubes. The capillaries are equally liable with the 
arteries to degeneration.'' — Hooper's " Physician's 
Vade Mecum." 

'' The cerebral arteries of old persons are frequently 
found studded with cartilaginous and osseous laminae." 



10 CAN WE PROLONG LIFE ? 

^^ The ossification of arteries has been ascribed by 
many authors to slight chronic inflammatory action. 
The experiments of M. Eayer and M. Cruveilheir seem 
to confirm this inference, as an occasional occurrence 
at least, particularly in the fibrous and cartilaginous 
structures, increased vascular action of these struc- 
tures, artificially excited, being generally followed by 
ossiform depositions ; but in a number of cases, parti- 
cularly in those where the deposit takes place in the 
cellular tissues, no inflammatory action can he detected 
previously to this change ; besides, increased vascular 
action frequently exists, without being attended with 
ossiform depositions. This lesion, therefore, cannot 
be altogether ascribed to this cause, although fre- 
quently resulting from it in a certain order of tissues. 
It would be correct to consider it merely as a conse- 
quence of disorder of the natural process of nutrition 
and secretion. . . . But to ivhat cause is this disorder 
of the nutritive function to be imputed, particularly 
when it occurs in parts which have not evinced any 
sign of inflammatory action, as in the cellular tissue 
connecting the internal coats of arteries ? The im- 
portance of this inquiry may appear, from the very 
great 'proportion of persons in advanced years who are 
affected in some organ or tissue with this lesion, and 
from the remarkable part it performs in the production 
of a number of diseases of the most dangerous de- 
scription.^^ — Copland's " Med. Die," art. '^ Arteries.''^ 

MM. Rostan, Recamier, and others, agree in consi- 
dering that softening of the brain is occasionally 
unconnected with any inflammatory action, particularly 
in aged persons. 



CAN WE PROLONG LIFE ? 11 

We have quoted from tlie above authorities to show 
that ossification and thickening of the arteries of the 
brain has not been overlooked, but that ic is a fact 
which has been known for many years ; also to show 
that this gradual process of ossification is not due to 
any inflammatory action. And we shall show that this 
earthy matter has been deposited from the blood, and 
increases year by year with old age, thus lessening the 
calibre of the larger vessels, partially, and in some 
cases fully, " clogging up " the capillaries, gradually 
diminishing the supply of blood to the brain, causing 
its diminution in size in old age, and fully accounting 
for the gradual loss of the mental capabilities before 
enumerated. 

As age advances, the energies of the ganglial system 
decline; digestion, circulation, and the secretory 
functions are lessened ; the ganglia diminish in size, 
become firmer, and of a deeper hue. In old age the 
nerves become tougher and firmer, the medullary sub- 
stance diminishes, and their bloodvessels lessen in 
calibre. The sensibility of the whole cerebro-spinal 
system decreases, hence diminution of the intellectual 
powers, lessened activity and strength in the organs of 
locomotion in advanced age. 

Another important and striking fact is that the 
brain of an old man contains a less amount of phos- 
phorus than that of a younger man. 

Arteries. — As with the arteries of the brain, the 
fiame process of gradual ossification extends to every 
vessel, the arborescent ramifications of which supply, 
without exception, every part of the system. Bichat 
and Baillie considered that the larger proportion of 



12 CAN WE PROLONG LIFE ? 

persons above sixty years of age have some part of the- 
arterial system affected by these depositions. 

Veins. — In old age the vasa vasorum decrease and 
become indistinct, the arteries lessen in calibre, they 
therefore hold a less amount of blood than in younger 
life ; the pressure is thrown on the veins, which dilate, 
their coats becoming thinner, they become tortuous or 
even varicose. 

Heai't. — In the heart '^ the coronary arteries are 
frequently ossified both in their trunks and in their 
subdivisions/^ In many cases this ossification is not 
visible; but, on analysing the same weight of muscular 
tissue taken from the heart of two individuals at 
different stages of life, we find the same excess of 
earthy matter in old age as we did in other structures 
already considered ; the capillaries gradually diminish 
in calibre, the muscular fibres of the organ are impro- 
perly nourished, the fibres become paler in colour, the 
cavities dilated and their walls thinned, in some cases 
becoming more or less hardened or indurated, in others 
giving way to fatty degeneration. The valves also- 
undergo cartilaginous and osseous transformations. 
The supply of blood to the organ is gradually dimi- 
nished, and its feeble contractions impel the blood 
along vessels already indurated and ossified, to organs 
which have undergone the same degree of ossification, 
and are therefore unable to properly perform their 
necessary functions. 

'^ About the age of forty, and still more so as the 
age of fifty is approached, the sanguineous circulation 
becomes more and more languid, particularly in the 
veins ; hence the frequency of venous congestions and 




CAN WE PEOLONG LIFE ? 13 

visceral obstructions, with various diseases depending 
thereon, particularly hsemorrlioids, bilious derange- 
ments, bilious and gastric fevers, inflammations, affec- 
tions of tbe heart, apoplexy and paralysis, derange- 
ments of the stomach and liver, hsematemesis, affections 
of the joints, as gout and rheumatism; diseases of the 
urinary organs, hysteria and uterine disorders, hypo- 
chondriasis, and affections of the mind/^ — Cooper. 

Lungs. — The lungs gradually lose their elasticity 
and increase in density; the air cells and bronchi 
become dilated ; hence emphysema and chronic bron- 
chitis, so often seen in the very aged. 

We now come to the organs of secretion and 
digestion. 

Salivary Glands. — -To commence with the salivary 
glands. We find that they are hardened and ossified ; 
their bulk in many cases decreases with age ; the 
saliva is either secreted in so small a quantity that 
food is only partially moistened in the mouth, and 
swallowed with difficulty, or it is secreted in large 
quantities, running, or ^' dribbling,^^ continually from 
the mouth in the very aged, its composition being 
altered, in containing more water than normal. 

Stomach. — In the stomach, the gastric juice (the use 
of which is to dissolve the various kinds of foods, 
reducing the albuminous and fibrinous portions of it 
to a state fit for absorption into the system), is secreted 
in a diluted form, and is deficient in pepsin ; thus the 
first process of digestion is improperly carried out. 
Moreover, the muscular walls of the stomach gradu- 
ally lose their wonted contractility, the peristaltic 
motions become weak, and the chyme, or product of 



14 CAN WE PEOLONG LIFE ? 

tlie gastric digestion^ is feebly transmitted through 
the pyloric orifice to the intestinal tube, instead of 
passing in a more vigorous manner^ as it does in the 
prime of life. 

Liver. — The liver, besides effecting important 
changes in certain constituents of the blood during 
its circulation through the gland, is also the secreting 
organ by which the hile is formed. The bile is sepa- 
rated from the blood by the hepatic cells, and is dis- 
charged into small ducts, which unite, and terminate 
in the ductus communis choledochus . Its chief purpose 
is to separate the chyle from the chyme. In old age 
the minute bloodvessels become hardened and dimi- 
nished in calibre j the hepatic cells become indurated, 
and therefore their secretion becomes slightly altered; 
but this alteration differs in degree according to the 
amount of venous congestion, so often met with in 
advanced life, and which is caused by the induration, 
or hardening, of the organ, not allowing that amount 
of dilatation which existed in the earlier periods of 
life. 

" Diseases of the liver very seldom occur until after 
puberty." But in after life how few are free from 
some congestive or structural disorder of the organ ? 
In childhood and youth the organ possesses sufficient 
elasticity to allow any increased flow of blood to pass, 
but in old age the hardened and ossified tunnels will 
not and cannot dilate ; the veins of the abdomen and 
lower limbs receive the pressure, and become varicose. 
In old age fatty matters are not thoroughly emulsi- 
fied, or absorbed by the lacteals ; this may be due to 
an alteration in the fluid secreted by the pancreas. 



I 



CAN WE PROLONG LIFE ? 15 

Intestines. — In tlie intestines tlie small vessels whicli 
supply the follicles and various glands, become indu- 
rated, or even ^^ clogged up/^ in old age ; the walls of 
the intestines become opaque, and lose their contrac- 
tility; the villi containing the lacteals undergo the 
same gradual alteration, the latter of which having 
coats which year by year become less pervious, less 
and less nourishment is absorbed into the system. 
From these alterations in the digestive organs, we see, 
firstly, that food is improperly digested ; secondly, 
that the chyle, or nutrient part of it, is only partially 
absorbed by the lacteals ; further, that these defects 
of function are caused by a gradual process of indura- 
tion and ossification. 

Testes. — In old age the testes shrink and nearly dis- 
appear ; the spermatic fluid is altered in composition 
and gradually lost, whilst from a gradual induration 
and ossification, the vessels of the erectile tissues no 
longer admitting of dilatation, the function of the 
latter as such is lost. 

As age advances, the prostate gland is disposed to 
become enlarged ; and ^^ its ducts often contain small 
rounded concretions, about the size of a millet seed, 
which are composed of carbonate of lime and animal 
matter.^^ 

Cowper^s glands appear to diminish in old age. 

Uterus. — ''^From the gradual effects of age alone, 
independent of impregnation, the uterus shrinks, and 
becomes paler in colour and harder in texture; its 
triangular form is lost; the body and neck become 
less distinguishable from each other; the orifices 
become less characteristic.^^ — Quain. 



16 CAN WE PEOLONG LIFE ? 

Ovaries. — The same consolidation applies to tlie 
ovarieSy in wliicli Dr. Martin Barry lias shown a large 
number of microscopic ovisacs to exist. Nevertheless, 
the Graafian vesicles approach the surface of the ovary 
and burst, the ovum and fluid contents of the vesicle 
passing into the Fallopian tube, periodically, from 
about fifteen, only up to about forty-five to fifty years 
of age, after which period of life, owing to a hardened 
and ossified state of the ovary, the vesicles are unable 
to approach the surface of the organ ; they exist, but 
they are imprisoned, their development is arrested, 
they shrink or disappear ; the powers of regeneration 
and reproduction are therefore lost. 

The urinary organs are modified by the same con- 
solidation. In the tubuli uriniferi and pelvis of the 
kidney, calculi are frequently found. The bladder 
becomes firmer, thicker, and less elastic in old age. 

In old age, adipose and cellular tissues are changed. 
Fatty matters diminish in quantity, become more fluid 
and deeper in colour. Cellular tissue gradually be- 
comes denser, more fragile, and inelastic, sometimes 
assuming a fibrous character. 

Serous membranes become denser, and ossific deposits 
are often found in them ; their surface also becomes 
drier in old age than in youth. 

Fibrous structures become firmer, tougher, and more 
rigid, and often ossified. 

In old age fibrin and gelatin increase; albumen 
diminishes. Many secretions become acrid and irritat- 
ing, and mucous fluid generally increased. 

Owing to languor of the circulation and decreased 
nerve power, the generation of animal heat is dimi- 



CAN WE PROLONG LIFE ? 17 

nished^ althougli exhalation and evaporation from the 
lungs and skin, both, of which lower the temperature 
of the body, are not so great in degree in old age as in 
youth. 

If we inquire into the cause of the senile changes in 
the organs of sensation, we find that sight gradually 
fails, that hearing, taste, and smell are gradually 
altered by this same process of induration and ossifica- 
tion. 

Eye. — In the eye, in old age, there is diminished 
secretion of the aqueous fluid in the anterior chamber, 
the cornea becomes less prominent, the pupil becomes 
more dilated from lessened nervous sensibility ; hence 
distant sight, and the indistinct and confused view of 
near objects in the aged. 

^'Extreme age is a strong predisposing cause to 
amaurosis." — Middlemore. 

^^ It is most frequent at and after the middle period 
of life." — Lawrence. 

*^^The state of the retina, when examined after 
death, in amaurotic eyes, accords with these views . . . 
it has been found thickened, opaque, spotted, buff- 
coloured, tough, and in some cases even ossified." — 
Cooper. 

" One case {of amaurosis) very analogous to 
amblyopia* senilis, , is believed to depend upon a 
diminution of the pigmentum nigrum, which secretion, 
in some individuals earlier and more considerably, in 
others later and in a slighter degree, recedes ivith other 

* Amblyopia (from dfil3\vQ, dull ; wi//, the eye). Hippocrates 
means by this word the dimness of sight to which old2)eople are 
subject.—" Aph," 31, sect. 3. 

2 



18 CAN WE PROLONG LIFE ? 

secretions of a different nature.^' — Beee^s '^ Lehre Yon 
den Augenkr./^ b. ii. p. 451. 

^^In form^ colour,, degree of transparency^ and 
density^ the lens presents marked differences at diffe- 
rent periods of life. In the adult, the anterior surface 
of the lens becomes less convex than the posterior, 
and the substance of the lens firmer (than in child- 
hood), colourless, and transparent. In old age, it is 
flattened on both surfaces, it assumes a yellowish or 
amber tinge, and is apt to lose its transparency as it 
gradually increases in toughness and specific gravity.'' 

QUAIN. 

'^ Old age may be regarded as one of the predisposing 
causes to cataract, inasmuch as the disease is most 
frequent in advanced life.''' — Cooper. 

" If common senile cataract be not caused by death 
of the lens, if this explanation of its opacity be re- 
jected. We are totally at a loss k) explain its frequent 
occurrence in aged persons. It is evidently not pro- 
duced in them hy inflammation, for it takes place first, 
it is perceived, in the centre of the lens ; it occurs in 
old feeble persons, and is unattended hy joain, or by 
any morbid effect in the other parts of the eye, which 
can with propriety be referred to inflammation.'' — 
MiDDLEMOEE, '^ Dis. of Eye." 

'^ On this point, I should say that there is evidence 
rather of disorganisation, or of alteration in texture, or 
of a new deposit in the lens, than of actual death of it." 
—Cooper's " Surg. Die," art. " Eye." 

'^ Cataract is often suspected to arise from defective 
nutrition of the lens ; some imperfection of the nerve, 
it is conceived, may he concerned." — Mackenzie. 




CAN WE PEOLONG LIFE ? 19 

'^ The cataract of old people generally attacks both 
eyes, within the period of a few months; but in 
middle life we often meet with it in one eye, the other 
having continued unaffected for many years." — 
Mackenzie. 

In middle life cataract may be due to some inflam- 
matory action, and only affect one eye, but true senile 
cataract is not caused by death of the lens, is not due 
to any inflammatory action ; but there is a new deposit, 
in the lens, which accompanies, or is part of, that 
gradual induration and ossification found in old age ; 
therefore both eyes are affected at about the same 
period. 

In old age the cornea becomes altered in shape, 
hardened, or even opaque ; the sclerotic undergoes the 
same modifications, and in some cases is even found 
ossified. To show that ossification sometimes exists, 
and is possible, we quote a few extreme cases. 

" Scarpa dissected an eye, which was almost entirely 
transformed into a stony substance. It was taken frotn 
the body of an old woman, and was not above half as 
large as the sound one. The cornea appeared dusky, 
and, behind it, the iris of a singular shape, concave, 
and without any pupil in its centre. The rest of the 
eyeball, from the limits of the cornea backward, was 
unusually hard to the touch. The particulars of the 
dissection of this case will be read with interest in 
Scarpa^s treatise on ^Diseases of theEye.^ Hallermet 
with a similar case (see ^ Obs, Pathol. Oper. Min.,' 
obs. 15). Fabricius Hildanus, Lancisi, Morgagni, 
Morand, Zinn, and Pellier, make distinct mention of 
calculi in the interior of the eye. Ossification of the 

2 2 



20 CAN WE PROLONG LIFE ? 

capsule of tlie lens^ of tliat of the vitreous humour, 
and of, what was supposed to be, the hyaloid mem- 
brane, are noticed by Mr. Wardropp." — Cooper, 
'' Surg. D'ictr 

Mr. Wardropp also mentions an instance of ossifica- 
tion of the cornea. In this case the whole eye was 
altered in form, and the cornea was opaque ; in it a 
piece of bone weighing two grains, oval- shaped, hard, 
and with a smooth surface, was found between its 
lamellse; ossification of the choroid coat and retina 
was also found. According to the same authority, 
Walter had in his museum a piecQ of cornea taken 
from a man sixty years of age, containing a bony mass 
which was three lines long, two broad, and weighed 
two grains. 

Many of the above cases are undoubtedly the result 
either of accident or some inflammatory action; we 
must not, therefore, consider them as a natural forma- 
tion : but in old age, we have sufficient evidence to 
show that the whole structure of the eye is slightly 
altered, that the solid parts are hardened, and even 
ossified; parts which in the earlier periods of life were 
transparent, become opaque ; owing to senile changes 
in the bloodvessels, the humours (which are secreted) 
, are , slightly altered in quantity, colour, and trans- 
parency; further, that the retina loses its sensibility 
. owing to the changes in the brain and nerves, which 
have been already considered. 

' These changes in the eye, caused, firstly, by a gradual 
, process of .solidification and ossification, secondly, by 
diminished nervous sensibility, fully account for cata- 
ract, amaurosis, and other diseases of the eye, becoming 



CAN WE PEOLONG LIFE ? 21. 

more prevalent after tlie middle period of life^ and still 
more frequent in old age. On tlie otlier hand^ on tlie 
same principle tliat some persons are gifted with, 
genius in one form or otlier, a being may be blessed 
witli organs of siglit possessing tone and nervous sen- 
sibility higher and greater in degree than those of 
the majority of mankind, and may live to a good old 
age '*' with eye not dim/' But even then his sight is 
not so clear, precise, or perfect, as it was in the earlier 
periods of life. It has undergone the same alterations 
as those found in other individuals ; these may be 
slight — it is but a difference in degree. 

Ear. — The ear is subject to the same gradual pro- 
cess of ossification. The cartilages of the external ear 
become hardened, or even ossified; the ceruminous 
glands, which secrete the ear-wax, undergo the sama 
alterations which have been observed in other glands ; 
the secretion becomes less, and is altered in quality. 
The membrana tympani becomes thickened and indu- 
rated ; the ligaments connecting the ossicles (malleus, 
incus, and stapes) become hardened — their pliability is 
lessened; thus vibrations which are already imperfect, 
owing to induration of the membrana tympani, are 
improperly conveyed by the ossicles across the cavity 
of the tympanum, by means of the internal ear (the 
structures and fluids of which have undergone the same 
process of consolidation*), to the auditory nerve, the 
sensibility of which decreases with the senile changes 
of the brain. Hence the impaired and confused hear- 
ing so often observed in aged persons. 

* Fluid in the internal cavities is diminished, or even 
absorbed, in old age. 



22 CAN WE PROLONG LIFE ? 

Tongue — Taste. — The tongue, besides being tlie organ 
of tbe special sense of taste^ also possesses in a very 
liigb degree that of touch ; these sensitive powers are 
confined to the membrane which covers it, the upper 
surface of which is studded all over with numerous 
sensitive papillae ; in old age, from a gradual loss of 
nervous susceptibility, also from induration of the 
bloodvessels supplying these papillae, their sensibility 
is diminished. The whole membrane covering the 
tongue is hardened and thickened, its surface becomes 
dry and furrowed, and the sense of taste is diminished. 

Smell. — In the nose, like the ear, the cartilages 
which determine its shape become hardened and even 
slightly ossified ; the power of contraction and expan- 
sion of the nostrils during respiration, so often ob- 
served in the child, is not utilised. Internally, the 
Schneiderian or pituitary membrane becomes hardened 
and thickened, the vessels supplying it become indu- 
rated and lessened in calibre, and the secretion from 
the glandular follicles either becomes less, accounting 
for that dryness of the nose so often observed in the 
aged, or it becomes watery and increased in quantity, 
giving rise to symptoms also characteristic of the 
same. Moreover, the fibres of the olfactory, the special 
nerve of the sense of smell, gradually lose their wonted 
susceptibihty, hence the sense of smell decreases with 
age ; its peculiar power of protecting the lungs from 
the inhalation of obnoxious gases, and in helping the 
Organs of taste to discriminate the characters of food, 
is indifferently carried out. 

Touch. — We now come to the sense of touch, and as 
its principal seat is the skin, we will at the same time 



CAN WE PEOLONG LIFE ? 23 

consider the senile changes in the latter, which is also 
important as an organ of excretion and absorption. 

"The skin consists of two* layers, the derma or 
cutis vera, and the epidermis or cuticle. On the sur- 
face of the former are the sensitive papillae ; and 
within, or imbedded beneath it, are the sweat-glands, 
hair follicles, and sebaceous glands."*^ The cutis, or 
true skin, consists of two layers, the corium and 
papillary layer. The latter contains the expansions of 
the sensitive nerves, and consists of numerous small, 
highly sensitive, and vascular eminences, which rise 
perpendicularly from its surface, forming the essential 
element of the organ of touch. 

The average length of these papillse is about the 
one-hundredth of an inch; but they are of larger 
size, and more fully developed upon the palmar sur- 
face of the hands, and the plantar surface of the feet. 
Each papilla contains one or more nerve-fibres, and in 
parts where the sense of touch is most highly deve- 
loped, these nerve-fibres "seem to be connected with 
small oval bodies, termed '*" tactile corpuscles," which 
Wagner describes as resembling minute fir-cones, and 
considers them an apparatus subservient to the sense 
of touch; and it is yet an open question whether or 
not these bodies develop electricity, and acting as in- 
dependent and separate ganglia, convey impressions 
to the brain ; but it is out of place to enter upon the 
subject here; we must therefore content ourselves by 
inquiring into the senile changes in the skin and 
organs of touch. 

* Some authors give three layers — cuticle, rete mucosum, and 
cutis vera. 



24 CAN WE PEOLONG LIFE ? 

In the first place, in old age the sensibility of the 
nerves is diminished; the capillaries supplying each 
papilla are gradually lessened in calibre, or even 
obliterated. From these two causes the sense of touch 
is not so perfect in old age as in earlier life. Further, 
as in other glands the secretions of the sweat and 
sebaceous glands is diminished ; the skin becomes dry, 
shrunken, and leather-like; it has a cracked or fur- 
rowed appearance, especially noticeable where any 
flexion of joints takes place, or where wasting of the 
soft parts under the skin causes it to "pucker up/' 
Hence the wrinkles of old persons. In old age, the 
skin contains more earthy salts than in youth. 

Teeth. — A human being is provided with two sets of 
teeth. The first, or temporary set, make their appear- 
ance in childhood, and are developed during foetal life 
from the mucous membrane covering the edges of the 
maxillary arches, by means of papillae, one for each 
tooth, which become enclosed by means of a con- 
vergence and union of the sides of the primitive dental 
groove. These papillae, or pulps, are supplied with 
bloodvessels and nerves. They gradually enlarge and 
assume the form of the future teeth, when a gradual 
process of ossification, or the formation of dentine, 
commences. A thin osseous shell, or cap of dentine, 
appears on the points of the pulps ; this increases, and 
eventually takes up its whole substance. At the same 
time the outer surface of the crown becomes covered 
with enamel, which is formed from a substance lying 
on the pulp and adapted to its surface ; not by secre- 
tion, but by a process analogous to ossification, or a 
deposition of earthy matter; and we have reason to 



CAN WE PEOLONG LIFE ? 25 

"believe that the beautiful arrangement of this earthy 
matter^ as seen in the minute, wavy, branching tubes 
lying parallel to each other, in the dentine, measuring 
about one four thousand five hundredth part of an inch 
in diameter, and the minute hexagonal rods in the 
enamel, measuring about one five thousand five hun- 
dredth part of an inch in diameter, is due to these 
earthy salts being deposited from minute pre-existing 
tubules. The same process still continuing, the root, 
or fang, is formed, elongates, and the tooth cuts the 
gum about six or seven months after birth, the tem- 
porary teeth being completed by the beginning of the 
third year. The temporary teeth begin to fall out at 
seven or eight years of age ; these are replaced by the 
permanent teeth, which are likewise developed before 
birth (with the exception of the last molars), but which 
during childhood are lodged in pedunculated cells in 
the bone. 

The eruption of the permanent teeth commences at 
about seven or eight years, and with the exception of 
the wisdom teeth, is completed at thirteen or fourteen 
years, the latter appearing between seventeen and 
twenty-five. During this time the jaw increases in 
depth and length. 

In the interior of the bony part of each tooth is a 
cavity, which descends or ascends, as the case may be; 
into the root, and thereby communicates with the 
outer surface. It contains a delicate vascular mem- 
brane, which is called the pulp of the tooth, and is 
supplied with bloodvessels and nerves ; and although 
the bloodvessels send no branches into the hard sub- 
stance of the teeth, the tubules of the dentine imbiba 



26 CAN WE PEOLONG LIFE ? 

und convey nutrient fluid to it. In support o£ tliis the 
teeth, are often stained yellow in jaundice ; and in young 
animals fed on madder^ the dentine is often tinged 
with its colour^ but in older animals under the same 
circumstances this colouring does not take place. 

As age advances^ the bloodvessels supplying the 
pulp of the teeth indurate and lessen in calibre; 
earthy matter increases in the cavity of the tooth, 
which cavity therefore decreases in size, in old teeth 
becoming almost obliterated. The blood supply to the 
tooth is gradually cut off, little by little it loses its nou- 
rishment j its crown becomes worn away by the almost 
constant process of mastication ; it is not replaced by 
growth from the root ; the tooth decays, and falls out. 

Haw. — Hair is made up of an outer, cortical, horny, 
or fibrous substance, which invests it, and an inner 
medullary, or pith-like substance, within ; the latter is 
made up of a series of cells filled with pigment ; the 
bulb, or root, is inserted into the skin in what is termed 
a hair follicle, at the bottom of which is a small vascular 
eminence — a papilla, by means of which material is 
supplied for the production and constant growth of the 
hair, blastema being thrown out, in which nucleated cells 
arise ; these flatten out, unite, and form the fibres which 
compose the fibrous part of the hair. Many of these 
cells contain pigment which gives the different charac- 
teristic shades to the hair. Thus one hair grows, is 
nourished and coloured from the blood, through the 
agency and powers of selection of a single papilla. 

"Whatever tends to lessen or cut off the supply of 
blood to this papilla, robs the hair of its powers of 
growth, nourishment, and colour. During thought. 



» 



CAN WE PEOLONa LIFE ? 27 

hard study, or mental worry, tliere is an increased 
flow of blood to the brain at the expense of that 
supplying the surface ; the hair loses, at all events 
temporarily, part of its nourishment ; hence premature 
greyness and baldness. Again, during fright, owing 
to intense contractions of the bloodvessels caused by 
the action of the sympathetic nerves, the supply of 
blood is taken away from these papillae supplying the 
hair ; by this means many persons have become grey, 
or even partially bald, in a single night. But there is 
another important change which we have to consider — 
that is, the process of induration and ossification, 
which gradually lessens, or even entirely obstructs, the 
supply of blood to these papillae, by which means the 
hair, little by little, loses its powers of growth, nourish- 
ment, and colour. 

Thus in old age the hair is no longer nourished, it 
loses its colour — becomes grey or white, for lack of 
pigment ; some of the papillae are even totally deprived 
of their blood supply ; therefore the bulb shrivels and 
shrinks, the hair falls away. 

In the foregoing pages we have pointed out the 
differences existing between youth and old age. In 
the former the various organs and structures are 
elastic, yielding, and pliable ; the senses are keen, the 
mind active. In the -latter, these qualities are usurped 
by hardness, rigidity, and ossification ; the senses are 
wanting in susceptibility, the mind in memory and 
capacity. 

Further, that these changes are due, firstly, to a 
gradual accumulation of fibrinous and gelatinous sub- 
stances ; secondly, to a gradual deposition of earthy 



28- CAN WE PROLONG LIFE ? 

compounds^ chiefly phospliate and carbonate of lime. 
These^ acting in concert, diminish the calibre of the 
larger arterial vessels, and by degrees partially, and 
sometimes fully, obliterate the capillaries. By these 
depositions every organ and structure in the system is 
altered in density and function ; the fluid, elastic, 
pliable, and active state of body gives place to a solid, 
inactive, rigid, ossified, and decrepit condition. The 
whole system is "choked up j^^ the curtain falls, the play 
of life is ended, terminating in so-called "natural death.^^ 

The general impression is that this accumulation of 
fibrinous, gelatinous, and osseous matter, is the result 
of old age — the result of time, the remote effects of the 
failure of that mysterious animal principle — ^life. But 
in an after chapter we shall show that this great vital 
principle, which is centred in the cerebro -spinal axis, 
gradually wanes, because the brain and nerves by 
degrees lose their supply of blood, their powers of 
selection and imbibition, and are deprived of their 
ordained nourishment by means of this gradual process 
of induration and ossification. 

Another prevailing idea is that the embryo, at its 
first period of existence, is endowed with a certain 
allotment of vitality — of life, the powers of which per- 
fect the organs and structures of the body, and gradu- 
ally decline, exhausting itself till death, and that the 
greater the amount and degree of the numerous uses 
it is put to, the sooner and more rapidly will existence 
collapse. The more luminous the flame, the sooner, 
will it be extinguished ! 

To this idea there are many objections, which would 
cause us to throw it aside. In many diseases how 



CAN WE PEOLOXa LIFE ? 29 

often is the sunbeam of life, nearly extinguished, 
known to recover, and sliine again, perhaps more 
brilliantly than before ! If we ask its source, can 
parents, whose supply of vitality is decreasing, give 
more than they possess to their offspring, and yet keep 
a portion to themselves ? 

Vitality emanates from the parent, but there is no 
doubt that instead of experiencing a diminution, it 
increases up to a certain period of life, when its 
maximum grade is attained, after which period the 
manifestations and functions of life gradually de- 
cline. For this decline nature gives a reason, and 
tells man it is in his power to arrest and curb the 
causes. 

Every organ and structure of the body, up to a 
certain period of life, possesses, per se, the power of 
reproducing any waste in structure or composition, 
under favourable circumstances; but after this period, 
the bloodvessels, which supply without exception 
every part of the body, become so indurated, hard- 
ened, and ossified, that their powers of irrigating 
and nourishing the different structures decline; the 
waste is therefore greater than the renewal. 

By a simple method of inquiry, we have asked the 
cause of the differences between youth and old age ? 
Why the various functions of the body are taken 
away ? Why we become old and die ? 

Nature has 3;nswered us. 

Induration and ossification are the causes of "old 
age " and " natural death.'' And upon this fact 
will arise the important question. Can we prolong 
.life? 



30 CAN WE PEOLONG LIFE ? 



CHAPTER II. 

THE SOrRCE OP THE ACCUMULATIONS WHICH CAUSE 



We will now inquire into tlie source of these deposi- 
tions_, wliicli gradually accumulate from tlie first period 
of existence to old age. Firstly, we will ask the 
source of the fibrinous and gelatinous substances; 
secondly, the source of the earthy deposits. 

Oxygen is the most abundant of the elements; it 
forms eight-ninths of water, nearly one-fourth of the 
air, and about one-half of the chief constituents of the 
earth^s surface. 

In the air it exists, in combination chiefly with 
nitrogen, in the proportions as under : 

Oxygen . . .22 
Nitrogen . . ,78 

100 
In a free state, nitrogen is comparatively inactive; 
but oxygen, although constituting only a comparatively 
small proportion of the atmosphere^ is the active 
element. 

Oxygen combines with all the known elements, with 
the exception of fluorine, forming oxides. Of that 
which is chemical in the animal economy^ oxygen has 



CAN WE PROLONG LIFE ? 31 

perhaps tlie most important action, whether it bo 
directly chemical, or chemical agency in action and 
reaction. 

During respiration by the lungs, animals inhale the 
oxygen of the air, and expire or breathe out carbonic 
acid gas. 

A middle-sized man consumes a little over 40,000 
cubic inches of oxygen per day, by respiration. This, 
oxygen being positive electricity, creates, or generates, 
a nitro-hydrogen, or negative action, at the skin and 
external surfaces. The lungs, heart, and vessels of tho 
arterial system have therefore a positive action, 
whilst the skin, veins, and liver have a correlative, or 
negative action. This is chemical agency in action 
and reaction. 

During life, every being throughout animated nature- 
is in a constant state of change — waste by oxygen^ 
renewal by food. The arteries, we may say, distribute 
oxygen universally, as a cause of the waste, whilst tho 
veins absorb nitrogen, carbon, etc., as the products of 
that waste, thus giving rise to the union of oxygen 
with carbon, and to the expiration of carbonic acid gas. 

The expiration of carbonic acid is therefore due to 
oxidation, or waste, of the substances of the body, 
which oxidation, together with that of the constituents 
of food, is the supposed source of animal heat. 

The experiments of Eegnault, Eeiset, and Magnus, 
prove that the lungs are not the seat of the formation 
of carbonic acid, but that carbonic acid is expelled 
from the blood in the lungs, and that oxygen is taken 
up in its place — that is, that a current of oxygen is 
conveyed throughout the system in the arterial blood. 



32 CAN WE PEOLONG LIFE ? 

wMcli in its passage causes waste, or oxidation, in tlie 
capillaries, and tlius gives rise to the presence of car- 
bonic acid in venous blood. 

Atmospheric air in contact witb tbe lungs under- 
goes a change ; its nitrogen is returned free, together 
with the carbonic acid expelled from the blood, and 
part of the oxygen, taking the place of the carbonic 
acid, is carried onward in the arterial blood — now 
changed froDi the dark purple-red of venous blood to 
a bright red colour, by the loss of carbonic acid from 
the blood corpuscles, and their absorption of oxygen — 
to take part in many of the vital functions and nume- 
rous changes in the animal economy, which are so 
intimately connected with the new and acquired pro- 
perties of arterial blood. 

There are two substances existing in blood — 
albumen and fibrin. The following are their com- 
ponent elements : 





Albumen. 


Fibrin. 


Carbon 


53-5 


52-7 


Hydrogen 


7-0 


6-9 


I^itrogen 


15-5 


15-4 


Oxygen 


22-0 


23-5 


Sulphur 


1-6 


1-2 


Phosphorus 


0-4 


0-3 



100-0 100-0 

From this analysis we see that fibrin contains 1*5 
per cent, more oxygen than albumen. 

If we make a clear and strained solution of albumen, 
or white of egg, and place it in a vessel under circum- 
stances which will not allow the admission of atmo- 



CAN WE PROLOXG LIFE ? 33 

spheric air_, and pass oxjgen throagli it daily for from 
four to seven days^ a whitish film^ insoluble in cold 
water, is found floating on the surface. This substance 
is analogous in appearance and properties to the fibrin 
of blood. 

Thus we may justly infer that fibrin is an oxide of 
albumen. 

The lacteals absorb the nutrient part of the products 
of digestion, the azotised substances of which exist 
either in an albuminous or minutely subdivided state,* 
and from some cause fibrin gradually increases in the 
contents of the absorbent system during its passage 
from the lacteals to the thoracic duct, from whence it 
passes into the blood. 

" The proportion of fibrin has been supposed to 
increase as the lymijh approaches the thoracic duct; 
thus from the lumhar lymphatics of a fasting horse, 
Gmelin obtained 0*25 per cent, of dry coagulum, and 
from that of the thoracic duct of the same animal, 0"42 
per cent." — Quain. 

" The chyle, when taken from the lacteal vessels, 
before they have reached the glands, is generally 
found to coagulate less firmly than in the more 
advanced stage of the process." — Ibid. 

In Dr. Carpenter^s '' Human Physiology," the 

* It has been proved by Magendie, Liebig, and others, that 
gelatin possesses no nutritive value. In the digestion of fibrin, 
as in its decomposition, " the putrefaction of a small portion 
causes the solution of the remainder." A certain portion of the 
fibrin during digestion is decomposed, the remainder gives up 
part of its oxygen to the decomposition, and becomes true 
albumen, coagulable by heat. 

3 



34 CAN WE PROLONG LIFE ? 



^^\ Fibrin, 
" I little, or none. 



following relative proportions of fibrin in different 
parts of the absorbent system are given as nnder : 

In the afferent or peripheral lacteals 
(from tlie intestines to tbe mesen- 
teric glands) . , . 

In the efferent or central lacteals \ Fibrin, 

(from the mesenteric glands to the r medium 

thoracic duct). . . . . ^ quantity. 

." Fibrin, 

In the thoracic duct . . . .< maximum 

V quantity. 

Thus from some cause fibrin increases in the ab- 
sorbent system, and as we hav^e shown that oxygen 
will convert albumen (which exists in the lacteals) into 
fibrin, we may justly infer that oxygen is the cause of 
this increase. 

Precisely the same process of oxidation goes on in 
the blood, which contains about seven per cent, of 
albumen ; this is gradually oxidised in the lungs and 
vessels, and converted into fibrin. 

If we partially suspend the respiratory functions, 
therefore the process of oxidation in the lungs, the 
amount of fibrin is decreased in the blood, or, more 
correctly speaking, it is not formed to the same extent. 

M. Dupuy found that "when the pneumogastric 
nerves were divided in the cervical region in horses, 
the quantity of fibrin in the blood became progressively 
diminished to a very remarkable extent." 

Albuminous substances are being almost continually 
absorbed by the lacteals and poured into the blood ; 
thus the supply is kept up, to be little by little con- 



CAN WE PEOLONG LIFE ? 35^ 

verted into fibrin^ which, is kept in solution in the 
blood, so long as a certain amount of heat exists, and 
motion or circulation is given to it. This motion is 
decreased during circulation through the capillaries. 
Although much of the fibrin either oozes through 
their walls, and is deposited to nourish organs and 
structures and repair their waste, much of it accumu- 
lates, lessening the calibre of vessels, and indurating 
organs and structures. This accumulation is small, 
the blood usually containing only about three per cent, 
of fibrin, but it is gradual and constant. 

In old age, as well as fibrin, a large quantity of 
gelatin has accumulated. 

Gelatin is never found in vegetables, nor does it exist 
in the blood, but it is found in the animal economy, in 
which it must therefore he formed.^ 

Its composition is — carbon, 50; hydrogen, 7; 
nitrogen, 18; oxygen, 25. It therefore contains 1*5 
per cent, more oxygen than fibrin. As fibrin is an 
■oxide of albumen, so is gelatin an oxide of fibrin, and 
the large quantities existing in old age are due to the 
action of atmospheric oxygen on fibrin deposited from 

* In the egg we see an instance of this transformation ; albu- 
men exists, what little fibrin there is being confined to the 
membranes, but there is 7io gelatin. In the chick, on hatching 
(a process which may be accomplished artificially, by the simple 
presence of heat, moisture, and atmospheric air), the amount of 
fibrin is found to have increased, and gelatin is found in com- 
paratively large quantities. In the egg the former was found 
in minute quantities, the latter not at all. Where do they 
come from 1 Nothing has entered the egg from without but 
moisture and air containing oxygen. The action of oxygen on 
albumen is the cause. 



86 CAN WE PROLONG LIFE ? 

the blood. If we carry the process of oxidation still 
further, we find that part of these fibrinous and gela- 
tinous substances are decomposed as the waste of 
tissues, and resolved into the compounds of ammonia 
and urea, and eliminated from the system ;* but at the 
same time the gradual pro :ess of accumulation is going 
on ; it is a battle between accumulation and removal. 
The former is the victor and gains the upper hand ; 
hence the accumulation is greater than the elimination. 

Thus the jihrinous and gelatinous accumulations 
found in old age, are caused hy the action of that 
never-resting, active, corroding, and destroying ele- 
ment^ atmospheric oxygen. 

The earthy salts, which we have already pointed out 
increase with age, are found by experiment to exist in 
different proportions in different individuals of the 
same age, which leads us to the conclusion that these 
depositions arise from various causes, or, if from the 
same cause, variable in intensity. On the inner surface 
of an ordinary tea-kettle, after being regularly used 
for several months, a considerable amount of incrusta- 
tion has taken place; and although it is generally 
believed that this incrustation arises from the deposi- 

* " If ten eqs. of oxygen be added to albumen, a formula will 
be given containing the elements of the membranes and choleic 
acid."— LiEBiG. 

Further, that when uric acid is formed from gelatin, the 
elements of choleic acid (an important acid of the bile) remain, 
and we are of opinion that, at no late period, the formation of 
many of the complex constituents of the urine and bile, from 
substances originating from albumen, by the presence of a cer- 
tain amount of heat, and by the simple additions of water and 
oxygen, will be demonstrably correct. 



CAN WE PEOLONG LIFE ? 37 

tion of earthy substances from tlie water, consequent 
upon boilings* and rendering insoluble tlie previously 
soluble salts of lime, experiment shows tliat the great 
bulk of this incrustation arises from matter previously 
soluble being precipitated, in consequence of the water 
which held it in solution being driven off in the form 
of steam, and the water remaining in the vessel being 
thus more than saturated, the excess is thrown down. 

Here we have a condition precisely similar to that 
which exists in the living human body, as the process 
of transpiration. Transpiration is nothing more or 
less than the evaporation and elimination of the fluids 
and gases of the system. 

The basis of animal fluids is water, and these fluids 
hold certain compounds of lime in solution ; and when, 
by transpiration, the watery basis is eliminated (pre- 
cisely as in the common tea-kettle), a portion of these 
lime compounds are, and must be, deposited. And 
although much of the matter deposited is carried off in 
the excretcGy much also is left behind in the different 
organs and structures of the body, which, little by little 

* The general impression is that hard water is caused by the 
presence of carbonate of Hme, held in solution by an excess of 
carbonic acid gas, and that on boiling the latter is eliminated, 
and the carbonate, being no longer soluble, is precipitated. 
This is, however, an error. Carbonates are not the cause of 
hard water, which state is due to the presence of sulphate of 
lime, or soluble gypsum. Thus, on washing with soap in hard 
water, a chemical decomposition takes place ; the sulphuric 
acid of the sulphate of lime unites with the soda of the soap, 
forming sulphate of soda, which remains in solution, whilst the 
lime unites with the tallow, forming oleate and stereate of 
calcium, an insoluble compound which floats on the surface of 
the water. 




38 CAN WE PEOLONG LIFE ? 

increasing^ form accumulations wMcli bring tlie indi- 
vidual to that stage of '^old age^^ and decrepitude 
wMcli terminates in '^ natural deatli/^ 

In the lungSj " the air-tubes, after repeated divisions 
and sub-divisions^ terminate in small vesicular cells, 
on the walls of which a minute capillary network of 
bloodvessels is distributed. The membrane which 
constitutes these cells, and through which the atmo- 
sphere acts upon the blood, is believed to be at least 
thirty times as extensive as the surface of the body. 
The lungs, therefore, constitute one vast excreting sur- 
face, from which is constantly escaping into the air a 
mixed cloud of carbonic acid, gas, and water.'' — 
HooPEE^s " Physician^s Yade Mecum.^^ 

The quantity of water exhaled from the lungs, 
according to the average estimates of different authori- 
ties, amounts to from seven ounces to one pint eleven 
ounces in the twenty-four hours. 

Thus the lungs eliminate carbonic acid gas, water, 
and other volatile substances. Earthy salts are not 
volatile, and are therefore not eliminated hy the lungs. 

The sJvin eliminates chiefly water and carbonic acid^ 
also nitrogen, lactate and acetate of ammonia, and a 
small quantity of alkaline and earthy salts. 

'' It is calculated that about three ^pounds of ivater 
are daily conveyed to the surface as insensible perspi- 
ration." This is, however, increased during hot 
weather and by exercise. 

The purpose of the urine is to remove a portion of 
the liquid and solid matters which have been taken 
into the system as food, also to carry off materials 
resulting from the waste or disorganisation of tissues. 



CAN WE PEOLONG LIFE ? 39 

It is secreted by tlie kidneys from arterial bloody and 
contains in tlie tlionsand parts, on an average, nine 
hundred and fifty of water, tlie remaining fifty parts 
being composed of organic constituents — urea, uric, 
lithic, liippuric, and lactic acids ; salts of ammonia and 
extractive matters ; and inorganic constituents — car- 
bonic, sulphuric, hydrochloric, and phosphoric acids, 
combined with soda, potash, magnesia, and lime. If 
we remove the water and collect one thousand parts of 
the solid matters, they are found to contain, on an 
average, sixteen j)arts, or 1*6 per cent, of earthy salts. 
Lehmann^s analysis gives 1*5 per cent. 

The solids discharged in the urine in twenty-four 
hours average less than one and a half ounces ; taking 
this, however, as an average, about twenty-one grains 
of earthy salts are daily eliminated by the kidneys; 
but a portion of the phosphates in the urine is secreted 
in the mucus of the bladder. 

The amount of earthy salts in fa3ces excreted in the 
twenty-four hours is generally about one-fourth of the 
quantity voided in the urine, or a little more than five 
grains,* a small quantity of which is perhaps derived 
from the saliva and other secretions of digestion, the 
rest from articles taken into the system as diet, and on 
which the amount depends. 

Owing to the many different conditions of quantity 
and quality of foods, hard and soft water, excretion by 
the skin and kidneys being increased by activity and 
hard work, and decreased inversely, thus varying in 
the amount of solid constituents according to the 
specific gravity of the urine, which alters slightly even 

* This item varies considerably, and is frequently very much 
larger. 



40 CAN WE PROLONG LIFE ? 

liourly^ it is impossible to collect a correct average of 
the amount of eartliy salts taken into tlie system, and 
tlie amount excreted by it, from the many different 
authors, or even to obtain the same by occasional 
observation. We therefore determined to experiment 
on ourselves, by carefully weighing the amount of 
solids and measuring the amount of liquids consumed^ 
and calculating as minutely as possible, from the ob- 
servations of well-authenticated analysts, and from our 
own made at the time, the amount of earthy matter 
they contained — i.e. the amount taken into the system ; 
and also by analysing and weighing the amount of 
earthy compounds carried off by the different excretse. 
To avoid error, these experiments were carried on for 
some weeks, and always gave the same result : that 
the amount tahen into the system was greater than the 
amount eliminaied.^ This amount fluctuated daily, 
sometimes amounting to mere traces in the twenty- 
four hours. But if we multiply even traces by days 
and years, we find a considerable amount of earthy 
salts unaccounted for. We have already shown that 
they exist in larger quantities in the body in old age 
than in middle life, and in the latter than in childhood. 
They are, therefore, retained and deposited in the 
system^ and little by little increasing, give rise to the 
changes observed as age advances. 

On removing the water from blood, and incinerating 
its solid constituents, 1*25 to 1*5 per cent, of ash is 
left. This is composed of hydrochlorate of soda and 

The experiments of Boussingault, on horses, confirm this 
in animals. 



CAN WE PROLONG LIFE ? 41 

potasli^ carbonates and pliospliates of soda^ sulphate 
of potash, phosphate of lime and magnesia, carbonates 
of lime and magnesia, and peroxide of iron. 

According to the analysis of M. Le Canu, for which 
he gained the prize given by the Academic Roy ale de 
Medecine of Paris, the compounds of lime, magnesia, 
and iron constitute 2*1 in the thousand parts of liquid 
human blood. 

Thus in blood are certain proportions of calcareous 
matter. 

As the blood is built up from the chyle (which is 
formed from the chyme by the action of the bile and 
pancreatic fluid), we should expect to find in the latter 
the same calcareous matter ; and such is the fact, that, 
on analysis, we find the same earthy salts in the chyle 
as exist in the blood. 

As the cJii/le is formed from the chyme (which is the 
product of the action of the stomach and its secretions 
on food), we should in it find the same calcareous 
matter ; and such, again, is the fact. 

But as the chyme is the product of digestion, we 
expect to find the same calcareous matter in the con- 
tents of the stomach; and such also is the fact. 

The contents of the stomach consist of food and 
drink taken to nourish and support the system, and in 
that food and drink we ought to find the same calca- 
reous substances ; and chemical analysis gives to us 
the certain answer, that the food and drink taken to 
support the system contain, besides the elements of 
nutrition, earthy salts, which are the cause of ossifica- 
tion, obstruction, old age, and natural death. 

We have now traced these earthy compounds which 



42 CAN WE PEOLONG LIFE ? 

are found in the system, and whicli increase as age 
advances, to the blood, from which, they are, by the 
process of transpiration, gradually deposited. From 
the blood we trace them to the chyle, from the chyle to 
the chyme, and from the chyme to the contents of the 
stomach, and thence to articles of diet. 

Thus we eat to live, and eat to die ! 

As we have traced these earthy salts to our food or 
articles of diet, we naturally inquire whether the 
different kinds of food and drink, which we have for 
our selection, contain the same proportion of ossifying 
and ^^ old age '^ producing matter ? Here chemical 
analysis answers in the negative ! Some of the most 
generally used alimentary substances contain a com- 
paratively large proportion of earthy compounds, some 
a moderate, and others a very small amount. 

No matter what kind of food we eat, or what fluid 
we drink, the earthy salts contained therein have all 
the same source — the earth. 

If we eat vegetable food, plants derive their earthy 
salts from the earth in which they grow. If animal 
flesh be our sustenance, they have the same source, 
through the medium of the animal we eat, which 
derives its supply from vegetation. 

Fish in the sea, fowl in the air, animals upon the 
earth, all derive the earthy salts contained in them 
originally from the earth, in the food on which they live. 

Any organ, or all the organs put together, of man 
or any being, cannot generate any element ; hence all 
that is earthy in man is derived from the earth. 

From this it follows, that if we can so regulate our 
diet — food and drink — that the amount of earthy 



CAN WE PROLONG LIFE ? 4B 

matter taken into tlie system be sufficient only for tlie 
growth and nourishment of the bones_, without which 
our powers of strength and motion would be useless 
(the body being deprived of its mechanical levers), 
the many organs and structures would not, and could 
not, harden and ossify ; the arteries would not become 
indurated and lessened in calibre, capillaries would not 
become obliterated, the brain would not decrease in 
size by age, sight would not fail, hearing, taste, and 
smell would not lose their susceptibility, hair would 
not turn grey, the skin would not become dry and 
wrinkled, the body would retain its fluidity, elasticity, 
and activity, and the brain its mental capabilities. 

If we can so regulate our diet that these earthy 
compounds are taken into the system in smaller quan- 
tities, and therefore take a longer period to accumulate 
— if we can even partially accomplish this- — we can 
prolong life ! 

We have shown " old age " and " natural death " 
to be due to tivo causes — firstly, to the action of atmo- 
spheric oxygen, which consumes our bodies and causes 
fibrinous and gelatinous accumulations ; secondly, to a 
deposition of earthy matter (ossification). If, there- 
fore, we can, by artificial means, partially arrest the 
never-ceasing action of atmospheric oxygen, and at 
the same time prevent the accumulations of these 
earthy compounds, or even remove them from the 
system — that state of body termed ^^ old age " would 
be deferred, and life would be prolonged for a 
lengthened period ! 

f' Many of the fundamental or leading ideas of the 



44 CAN WE PROLONG LIFE ? 

present time appear, to him who knows not what 
science has already achieved, as extravagant as the 
notions of the alchemists/^ — Liebig. 

In all the animal kingdom there is a beauty of 
structure manifested, wondrous, marvellous, and ex- 
quisite ; but man alone has been endowed with know- 
ledge, wisdom, and understanding, as a sole and 
exclusive gift to him. 

Speaking of the patriarchs,* Josephus affirms : 
" Their food luas fitter for the prolongation of life ; 
and besides, God afforded them a longer time of life 
on account of their virtue, and the good use they made 
of it in astronomical and geometrical discoveries/^ 
"Who, therefore, can deny, that with all our knowledge 
and discoveries, which are daily increasing*, man may 
not again re-discover the secret of long life, which has 
been lost for so many ages, and which secret may 
probably be summed up in the following few words : 

If a human being subsists upon food which contains 
a large proportion of lime, a large proportion will 

* Many authors contend that the years, at the time of the 
patriarchs, were shorter than at the present time — not more 
than one-fourth the period. If this were true, Methusaleh 
would have lived only two hundred and forty-three years, 
Terali fifty-one, and Abram forty-four. Enoch would have 
been only sixteen when he begat Methusaleh, Arphaxad eight 
and three-quarters when he begat Salah, Salah seven years old 
when he begat Eber, and Adam would have been more than a 
great-grandfather at thirty- three. There is no evidence to show 
the years were less than at the present time. It is probable, 
and quite possible (presuming that their diet tended to lon- 
gevity), that the patriarchs lived to their recorded ages. 



CAN WE PROLONG LIFE ? 45 

enter into the composition of the chyme^ tlie chyle,, and 
the blood ; and as from the blood the deposition of 
lime takes place, the greater the amount of lime that 
blood contains, the greater will be the amount de- 
posited in the system, the greater the degi'ee of 
ossification, and the sooner will be produced that 
rigidity, inactivity, and decrepitude, which makes him 
old and brings him to jpremature death. 

On the other hand, if the food and drink taken to 
nourish and support the body are selected from the 
articles which contain the least amount of lime, the 
least amount will enter into the composition of the 
chyme, the chyle, and the blood, the less amount will 
there be to deposit, the less the degree of ossification, 
the less the rigidity, inactivity, and decrepitude, and 
the longer the life of the man ! 



CHAPTER III. 



DIET IN COMPOSITION AND QUANTITY AS BEST ADAPTED 
TO A PROLONGED EXISTENCE. 

Before entering directly upon the subject of diet and 
its composition, we venture a few remarks upon the 
structure and organisation of man, relative to his 
adaptation for a prolonged existence. 

If we view the genus Homo, either as a whole or in 
its divisions, irrespective of colour, climate, or habit. 



46 CAN WE PROLONG LIFE ? 

we find a great similarity in botli an anatomical and a 
physiological sense. The structure^ organisation, and 
functions are the same in one and all. The body of 
man is perfect, its Creator " saw that it was good ;" 
the same Creator gave to man wisdom, and it is a duty 
to that Creator to use such wisdom in gaining know- 
ledge, which will enable him to keep that body perfect. 

'^ Like the pious pilgrim to the Holy Land, toil on 
in search of the sacred shrine, in search of truth — 
Ood's truth, God's laws — as manifested in His works, 
in His creation. '^ — H.R.H. the late Prince Consort. 

^'^ The human body, as a machine, is perfect ... it 
is apparently intended to go on for ever.'' — Dr. 

MUNRO. 

*' If we could imagine a physiologist seeing for the 
first time an organised structure, such as the human 
frame, in a state of perfection, however closely he 
might examine it, and however intimately he might 
know the structure, he could not, without the know- 
ledge of experience, pretend to say there appeared any 
reason why death should occur ; he could not, indeed, 
conceive such a thought as death." — Dr. Redford. 

^' Such a machine as the human frame, unless acci- 
■dentally depraved, or injured by some external cause, 
would seem formed for perpetuity." — '' Medical Con- 
spectus," Dr. Gregory. 

"If a living organised being be examined at the 
epoch of its greatest perfectiop. ... a mutuality of 
cause and effect is perceived which almost promises 
immortality." — Sir T. C. Morgan. 

" At some future day there can be little doubt that 
the value and duration of life will be extended greatly 



I 



CAN WE PROLONG LIFE ? 47 

beyond what it is at present — greatly heyoncly perhaps, 
what we at 'present can imagined' — '^^ Medical Dic- 
tionary," by Dr. Thomson. 

The body is in a constant state of change — of waste 
and renewal. Oxygen consumes and wastes the many 
different tissues ; we take food to supply the loss ; in 
that food we take into the system the elements of 
destruction — earthy salts. As we have already stated, 
every organ and structure, up to a certain period of 
life, has the power of reproducing and repairing any 
waste, after which period the bloodvessels become so 
indurated and lessened in calibre, that their powers of 
irrigating and nourishing the various structures de- 
cline. Could these channels be kept free from any 
obstruction, the brain would act, because the heart 
would act; the heart would act, because the brain 
would act, as a perpetual motion ; the functions would 
maintain the organisation ; the renewal would be equal 
to the waste and decay; there would be a harmony 
and mutuality of cause and effect, and man, could 
this be effected, would have an existence almost pro- 
mising immortality. 

We are not justified in putting a limit to the days of 
man ; science fails to prove one, religion does not dic- 
tate one. The well-known expression, " The days of 
our years are threescore years and ten," is not an edict 
from God, but simply a lamentation that the term of 
life was so reduced by the wickedness and ignorance 
of the people. 

Were it not for the superstitions, prejudices, and 
tyrannies which kept humanity, as it were, under- 
ground ; were it not for the theories and hypotheses 



48 CAN WE PR07.0NG LIFE ? 

wliicli are made to explain phenomena before their 
cause is known_, our knowledge would be of a more 
rational, purer, and more complete kind ; one branch, of 
science would not be constantly waging war against 
another ; the investigations and discoveries of to-day 
would have no need of contradiction to-morrow; all 
would be harmony and progression. 

Facts, designs, and discoveries, which have been for 
a time neglected, despised, or ridiculed, one by one 
arise to reproach ignorance and benefit humanity. 
These are generally the result of investigation which 
we are not on any grounds justified in arresting*. 

" It is perfectly vain to attempt to stop investiga- 
tion. . . . Depend upon it, if a chemist, by bringing 
the proper materials together, could produce a human 
body, he would do it. And why not ? There is no 
command forbidding him to do it; his inquiries are 
limited solely by his own capacity.^^ — Prof. Tyndal. 

We are justified in carrying our investigations, if 
they are for the benefit of man, in either mind, body, 
or estate, to the utmost limit, in the firm belief, and 
under the true conviction, that " The effort to extend 
the dominion of man over nature is the most healthy 
and most noble of all ambitions.^^ — Bacon. 

When we view the majority of mankind in relation 
to his diet, our knowledge of his habits and disposi- 
tion points out lo us the many difl&culties to be sur- 
mounted in ordering any alteration in his predisposed 
and acquired indulgences; indeed, the difficulties are so 
great that we are induced to quote the following : 

'' The common definition of man is false ; he is not 
a reasoning animal. The best you can predicate of 



£!A^' WE PEOLOXG LIFE ? 49 

Lim is, that lie is an animal capable of reasoning." — 
"VYaeburton, 

This is true in many cases ; it is very true in regard 
to his diet. And further, as Cato observes, ^' It is a 
liard and difficult task to undertake to dispute with 
men^s stomachs, which have no ears."" 

Some men have, perhaps, no cares, others pass an 
-existence which may be a constant scene of trouble : 
but how many of these think there is no other pleasure 
in life but in eating, drinking, and sleeping 1 Many 
men at a certain age become lost to the other enjoy- 
ments of life, and these become the only pleasures 
they recognise. This wonderful being of creation, 
whose place is to have dominion over all things, dies 
— true, he has lived, but in many cases he has done no 
good to himself; he has not benefited those around 
him, or those that come after him. Yet he has lived, 
and expects to be rewarded with a seat in heaven. 
Tor what ? 

Surely there is a better purpose in man^s existence 
than mere eating, drinking, and sleeping, resembling 
the life of the lower animals. Man has a higher destiny 
and a nobler purpose; he should aim to give happiness 
to himself and those around him. He is lord of crea- 
tion ; let him strive to become its ruler and benefactor. 
Many men are ruled and governed by their diet — 
their " belly is their God." Many undertakings are 
influenced by the same, whether they be the meeting 
of relations and friends for pleasure or for pain, for 
marriage or the funeral, commercial transactions, the 
meetings of lodges, clubs, or guilds ; societies with the 
banner of ^'^ Charity" unfurled above them, whether 

4 



50 CAN WE PROLONG LIFE ? 

they be ecclesiastical, constitutional, or benevolent ; 
meetings for social, agricultural, scientific, judicial, 
and political purposes ; congresses for peace or war — 
•for the destruction or preservation of men ; all these- 
different assemblies meet in a social and friendly 
manner. The banquet has become an institutions- 
even her Majesty^s ministers have " Ye annuale 
WHYTEBAiTE DINNER, for ye saddo and sobere comforte 
of frendes, and ye guestes are bydden to eate after ye 
Hungarie mannere/' 

How many diseases can be traced to over-eating !" 
How few to moderation or eating little ! When will 
man, who is capable of reasoning, use that reason ? 
When will he remove the mist from his eyes, which 
has shrouded them for so many generations ? 

When he does this he will see that the object of his 
diet is to keep up a balance between waste and renewal 
■ — to give an equilibrium to the system. 

Before entering further upon the subject, it will be- 
necessary to review the analyses of the most generally 
used articles of diet, when we shall be able to select 
from them those best adapted, in composition and 
quantity, for prolonging existence. 

Most of the following analyses are taken from the 
''^Food Collection ^^ in the Bethnal Green Museum, or 
from the writings of good authorities on the subject. 
As cereals at the present time constitute the basis of 
human food, their composition is first given. We 
must not, however, forget that differences in soil, 
manure, and culture give rise to variable results; also, 
that artificial manures, so largely employed in modern 
agriculture, alter the quantity of salts, or '^ashes,^* 



CAN WE PEOLONG LIFE ? 



51 



which they contain ; these results are^ therefore^ only 
proximately correct. 

Wheat [Triticum), 

" Good wheat should give three-fourths of its weight 
of fine flour; but the chemical composition of this 
depends upon the greater or less quantity which it 
contains of the outer husks. The finest flour is not so 
rich in flesh-forming matter as the coarser kinds." 

The average composition in one hundred parts may 
be taken as : 

Water . . . 14*0 



Gluten 






. 12-8 


Albumen 






. 1-8 


Starch 






. 59-7 


Sugar 






. 5-5 


Gum 






. 1-7 


Fat . 






. 1-2 


Fibre 






. 1-7 


Ashes 






. 1-6 


T 


otal 




. 100-0 


Beans 


{Faba 


vulgaris) 




Water 






. 14-8 


Caseine 






24-0 


Starch 






36-0 


Sugar 






2-0 


Gum 






8-5 


Fat . 






2-0 


Woody fibre 






9-2 


Mineral matt 


2r (ashes) 


3-5 


Total . 






100-0 



4—2 



52 



CAN WE PROLONG LIFE ? 



Barley {Hordeum distichum). 
Water . . . 14-0 



Gluten 

Albumen 

Starcli 

Sugar 

Gum. 

Fat . 

Fibre 

Ashes 

Total 



Ash op Barley. 



12-8 

0-0* 
48-0 
3-8 
3-7 
0-3 
13-2 
4-2 

100-0 



Silica 


29-67 


Pliosplioric acid 


36-80 


Sulphuric acid 


0-16 


Chlorine 


0-15 


Peroxide of iron 


0-83 


Lime 


3-23 


Magnesia . 


4-30 


Potash 


. 1600 


Soda 


. 8-86 


total . 


. 100-00 




EiNHOFF 



Oats [Avena sativa). 

^^The outer husk of oats, unlike wheat_, is poor in 
flesh-formers, so that oatmeal is better than the whole 



* Einhoff gives albumen in barley as 1-15 in 100 parts. 



CAN WE PEOLONG LIFE ? 



63 



oat as food. In making oatmeal, one quarter of oats 
(328 lbs.) yields 188 lbs. of meal and 74 lbs. of husks, 
the rest being water. Oatmeal is remarkable for its 
large amount of fat.'^ 

Water . . . 13'6 

Flesh-formers (gluten, albu- 



Total 



men, etc.) . 


. 


. 17-0* 


Starch 


. 39-7 


Sugar 


. 5-4 


Gum 


. 3-0 


Fat . 


. 5-7 


Fibre 


. 12-6 


Mineral matter (ashes) , 


. 3-0 


Total . 


. 100-0 


Eye {Secale cereale) 




Water 


13*00 


Gluten 




. 10-79 


Albumen . 




3-04 


Starch 




51-14 


Gum 




. 5-31 


Sugar 




3-74 


Fat. 




. 0-95 


Woody fibre 




. 10-29 


Mineral matter (ashes) 


. 1-74 



100-00 



* Sibson found gluten in oats to the extent of 11 "85 in 100 ; 
in oatmeal, 15-68 in 100. Vogel gives 4 parts of albumen in 
100 of oatmeal. 




54 



CAN WE PEOLONG LIFE 



Ultimate Analysis of Wheat, Eye, and Oats, 

DEIED AT 230° F. 

Wheat. Rye, 

Carbon 46-1 46*2 

Hydrogen 5*8 5*6 

Oxygen 43*4 44*2 

. Nitrogen 2*3 1*7 

Ashes 2-4 ' 2-3 



Oats, 

50-7 

6-4 

36-7 

2-2 

4-0 



Total 100-0 100-0 


100-0 




BOUSSINGAULT. 


Maize, or Indian Corn {Zea 


Mays) , 


Water- 


14-0 


Gluten 


12-0 


AlLumen 


0-0* 


Starch 


60-0 


Sugar and Gum 


0-3 


Fat . ' . 


7-7 


Fibre . . 


• 5-0 


Mineral matter (ashes) 


1-0 


Total . 


100-0 


Rice {Orysa sativa). 




Water . . 


13-5 


Gluten 


-6-5 


Starch 


74-1 


Sugar 


. 0'4 


Gum 


. 1-0 


Fat. ' 


. 0-7 


Fibre 


. 3-3 


Mineral matter (ashes) 


. 0-5 



Total . 
* Brande gives albumen 25 



. 100-0 
; Graham gives the same quantity. 



CAN WE PROLONG LIFE ? 



55 



Malt. 



Starcli 


69-0 


Gum. . . ' 


14-0 


Sugar 


. ' 16-0 


Gluten 


i-o 


> Total . 


100-0 




Dr. Thompson. 


Garden Beans (Viciafaha). 


Starcli . 


34-17 


Amylaceous fibre . 


15-89 


Legumine (caseine) 


10-86 


Gum 


4-61 


Albumen . . . 


0-81 


Sweet extractive matter 


3-54 


Membrane . 


10-05 


Water . 


15-63 


Salts (ashes) 


. 3-46 


Loss 


. 0-98 


' Total . . * . 


100-00 




EiNHOFP. 


i:iDNEY Bean {Phaseolus vi 


ilgaris). 


Starcli 


35-94 


Amylaceous fibre . 


. 11-07 


Legumine (caseine) 


. 20-81 


Gum 


. 19-37 


Albumen . . 


. 1-35 


Sweet extractive ... 


. 3-41 


Membrane . ... 


7-50 


Water . . . 


(dried) 


Salts (asbes) 


0-55 


Total . . 


100-00 




EiNHOFF. 



56 



CAN WE PROLONG LIFE ? 



Peas (Pisum sativum). 



Water 


. 14-1 


Caseine 


. 23-4 


Starch 


. 37-0 


Sugar 


. 2-0 


Gum 


. 9-0 


Fat . 


. 2-0 


Woody fibre 


. 10-0 


Mineral ashes 


. 2-5 


Total . 


, 100-0 


Dr. Pereira gives : 




Starch 


. 32-45 


Amylaceous fibre 


. 21-88 


Legumine (caseine) . 


. 14-56 


Gum ' 


. 6-37 


Albumen 


. 1-72 


Sweet extractive 


. 2-11 


Water 


. 14-06 


Salts (ashes) 


. 6-56 


Loss 


. -29 


Total 


100-00 



Lentils (E'rvum lens). 

" Lentils, like other leguminous seeds, contain much 
caseine. They are a favourite food in the East. The- 
Hindoo adds lentils to his starch- giving rice, and 
obtains from them the nourishment the latter does not 
contain. . . . Lentils are particularly nutritious. . . . 
The food sold under the name of ' Eevalenta Arabica ' 
is the meal of the lentil after being freed from its outer 



CAN WE PROLONG LIFE ? 



57 



skin^ wliicli[is indigestible. The ^red pottage' for 
which Esau sold his birthright appears to have been 
made of lentils. One hundred parts contain_, so far as 
is known :'* 



Water 


. 14-0 


Caseine 


. 26-0 


Starch 


. 35-0 


Sugar 


. 2-0 


Gum 


7-6 


Fat . 


2-0 


Woody fibre 


. 12-5 


Mineral matter (ashes) 


. 1-5 



Total 



100-0 



According to Dr. Pereira, lentils consist of : 



Starch * 


. 32-81 


Amylaceous fibre 


. 18-75 


Legumine (caseine) . 


. 37-32 


Gum . ♦ 


. 5-99 


Albumen 


. 1-15 


Sweet extractive 


. 312 


Water 


. (dried) 


Salts . 


. 0-57 


Loss . 


. 0-29 


Total . 


100-00 



Buckwheat {Polypomim fagopyrum), 

" Buckwheat is known in this country by the name 
of ' brank/ and is cultivated for the sake of its green 
fodder. It is sometimes mixed with wheat-flour^ 



6S 



CAN WE PROLONG LIFE ? 



Birds are exceedingly fond of it, and one of the prin- 
cipal uses made of it in this country is to feed 
pheasants in the winter/^ 

It consists of : 

Water ^ 
Gluten 
Starch 
Gum . 
Sugar 
Fat . 
"Woody fibre 
Mineral matt 

Total 



. - 


. 14-2 




- 8-6 




. 50-0 




2-0 




2-0 


. 


. - 1-0 


. 


20-4 


Br (ashes) 


1-8 


. * 


100-0 



VEGETABLE ROOTS. 



Potato {Solanum fuberosum). 



Water 


. 75-2 


Flesh - formers 


(albumen. 


gluten, etc.) 


. 1-4 


Starch 


. 15-5 


Dextrine 


. 0-4 


Sugar 


.3-2 


Fat . 


. 0-2 


Fibre 


. 3-2 


Ashes 


. 0-9 


Total . 


.100-0 



CAN WE PKOLONG LIFE ? 



59 



According to Einhoff, the potato contains : 
Albumen and mucilage . 6 "4 

Starcliy matter . . 22*0 

"Water, salts, and loss . 72-6 



Total . 


. 


•100-0 


Dr. Pereira gives : 






Water . ^ 


. 


66-875 


Starclig^nd amylaceous i 


&bre 


30-469 


Albumen . 


. 


0-503. 


' Gluten 


. 


0-055 


Fab ' . . 


, 


0056 


Gum ' . . ' 


, 


0-020 


Asparagin .... 


'. 


0-063 


Extractive . 


. 


0-921 


Chloride of potassium 


. 


0-176 


Silicate, phosphate. 


and 




citrate of iron, manganese. 




alumina, soda, potash 


and 




lime 


, 


0-815 


Free citric acid 


• 


0-047 


Total . 


100-000 


Parsnips {Pastinaca sativd). 


Water ... 




82-089 


Albumen and caseine 




1-215 


Sugar . . 




2-882 


Starch . . ' 




3-507 


Fat 




0-546 


Gum • . - . ♦ 




0-748 


Woody fibre 




8-022 


Ashes 




1-041 



Total . 



100-000 



CO CAN WE PEOLONG LIFE ? 



TuENiPS (Brassica ' 


•aj^ft) . 




Water 




90-5 


Albumen and caseine 




11 


Sugar 




4-0 


Gum . 




1-5 


W oody fibre . 




2-4 


Mineral matter (aslies) 




0-5 



Total . . . 100-0 

According to Dr. Pereira, the turnip contains 
Water . . . 925 

Solid matter . . . 7'5 



Total . . » 100-0 

Ultimate composition of dried turnips : 

Carbon . . . 42*9 

Hydrogen . . .5*5 

Oxygen . . ,42*3 

Nitrogen . . .1*7 

Aslies . . . 7-6 



Total . . . 100-0 



Caekots {Daucus carota) 

Water 

Albumen and caseine 

Sugar 

Fat . 

Gum . 

Woody fibre . 

Mineral matter (aslies) 

Total . 



87-5- 
0-6 
6-4 
0-2 
1-0 

3-a 

1-0 



100-0 



Wt/r^^^^ PROLONG LIFE ? 


61 


The Juice of tlie carrot contains : 




Fixed oil (some part volatile) 


1- 


Red crystalline substance (carotin) . 


•34 


Uncrystallisable sugar, with starch 




and malic acid 


93-71 


Albumen .... 


4-35 


Ashes (alumina, lime, iron) . 


•60 


Total .... 


100^ 




Pereira. 



Sweet Potato {Convolvulus Batatas). 
" The sweet potato is eaten largely in tropical 
America.^' 



Water 
Starch 
Sugar 
Albumen 
Fat . 

Woody fibre 
Gum, etc. . 
Ashes 

Total . 



67-50 
16-05 
20-20 
1-50 
0-30 
0-45 
1^10 
2-90 

lOO'OO 



Onions. 
Acrid volatile oil, 
Uncrystallisable sugar. 
Gum, 

Vegetable albumen, 
Woody fibre. 

Acetic and phosphoric acids. 
Phosphate and carbonate of lime. 
Water. 



Peeeira. 



62 



CAN WE PEOLONG LIFE ? 



According to Vaquelin and Fourcroy, tlie onion 
consists of : A white, acrid, volatile, and odorous oil ; 
sulphur combined with oil, whicli makes it foetid. A 
large quantity of uncrystallisable sugar ; a large quan- 
tity of mucilage, like gum arabic; a vegeto-animal 
matter, coagulable by beat and analogous to gluten; 
phosphoric acid, in part free, in part combined with 
lime ', acetic acid ; citrate of lime, and a very tender 
fibrous matter, retaining some vegeto-animal matter. 

'^ Garlic, leeks, and shalots have a similar composi- 
tion." 

OTHER YEGETABLES. 



Cabbage 

Extractive matter 

Gummy extractive 

Besin 

Vegetable albumen 

Eecula . 

Water, with acetic acid, sulphate and nitrate of 
potash, chloride of potassium, malate and 
phosphate of lime, phosphate of magne- 
sia, iron, and manganese . 

Total . . . . 



2-34 
2-8^ 
005 
0-29 
0-6S 



93-80 



. 100-00 
Pereiea. 

According to Sibson, the cabbage contains 1*87 per 
cent, of inorganic matter (ashes). 

'^ The cabbage, dried, contains 30 to 35 per cent, of 
gjuten.'^ 



can we prolong life ? 63^ 

Cauliflower. 

!oIourmg matter^ mucilage, resin, vegetable 

albumen (about) . . . .0*5 

Chlorophylle, fatty matter, pectic acid (a pro- 
duct ?) woody fibre (about) . . 1*8' 
Water, ratber more than . . . 90'O 
Silica, malate of ammonia, malate of lime, free 
malic acid, acetate of potasb, phosphate of 
lime, chloride of calcium, and sulphate of 
potash ..... traces 

Pereira. 

" Cauliflower, dried, contains gluten, sometimes as 
high as 64 per cent.^^ 

Asparagus 
consists of : 

Asparagine (asparamide). 
Gum, 

Uncrystallisable sugar. 
Vegetable albumen, 
Eesin, 

Woody fibre. 

Acetate, malate, phosphate, ' and muriate of' 
potash, lime^ and iron. 

Cucumber. 
^'The fresh peel contains solid matters similar to 



64 



CAN WE PROLONG LIFE T 



tliose of the peeled fruit, but containing mucli fungus- 
like matter 15-0, water 85'0, inlOO'O/' 



Green and peeled, tlie cucumber consists of : 




Sugar and extractive .... 


1-66 


CWoropliylle ..... 


0-04 


Odorous matter . . 


? 


Fungus-like membrane 


? 


Soluble albumen . . . . 


0-13 


Pbospbate of lime .... 


0-53 


Free pbospboric acid, an ammoniacal salt, 




malate, pbosphate, sulphate, and muriate 




of potasb, witb sulphate of lime and 




iron ..... 


0-50 


Water ...... 


97-14 



Total 



100-00 



MusHEOOMS (Morels). 



Stearine 


and elaine 


. 


4- 





Sugar . 


. 


. . . 


2- 





Albumen 


. 


. 


1- 


2 


Azotised extract, or vegetable 


osmazome 


29- 


4 


Tungine 


, 


, 


39- 


6 


Gummy azotised extractive 


. 


5- 


4 


Boletate, 


and phosphate of ammonia and potash 


8- 





Water . 


Total 


. 


10- 







98-16 






Beande. 





CAN WE PEOLONG LIFE ? 



65 



I 



FEUITS. 




Dates. 




(The Flesh) 




Uncrystallisable sugar 


58-0 


Pectine 


8-9 


Gum . . . . 


3-4 


Bassorine 


4-1 


Fatty matter . 


0-2 


Wax 


01 


Fibre, with traces of colouring 




matter and tannic acid 


2-3 


Water 


23-0 


Total . 


1000 


• "\ 


Peeeira 


{The Kernel) 




Fibre 


39-6 


Gummy matter 


36-4 


Gum and mucus . . 


2-5 


Epidermis (albumen) 


0-6 


An astringent acid (catechu ?) 


71 


Stearine 


0-5 


Oleine 


0-3 


Water 


13-0 


Total . 


1000 



Ibid. 



CAN WE PROLONG LIFE T 



Sweet Almonds. 




Fixed oil . 


54-0 


Emulsin 


240 


Liquid sugar 


6-0 


Gum .... 


3-0 


Seed-coats . 


5-0 


Woody fibre . 


4-0 


Water 


3-5 


Acetic acid and loss . 


0-5 


Total . 


100-0 




Pereira. 


Bitter Almonds. 




Volatile oil and hydrocyanic 




acid^ quantity undetermined 


0-0 


Fixed oil 


28-0 


Emulsin 


30-0 


Liquid sugar 


6-5 


Gum 


3-0 


Seed-coats . 


8-5 


Woody fibre 


5-0 


Loss . 


19-0 


Total . 


100-0 lb 


Figs. 




Granular sugar (glucose) 


62-5 


Fatty matter . 


0-9 


Extractive, with chloride of 




calcium 


0-4 


Gum, -ssatli phosphoric acid . 


5-2 


Woody fibre, and achenia 


15-0 


Water . . . . 


160 



Total 



. 100-0 Ibid. 



CAN WE PEOLONG LI¥E: 67 

Grape {Juice, when ripe). 

Extractive, 

Sugar, granular and uncrystallisable. 

Gum, 

Glutinous matter. 

Malic acid (a little). 

Citric acid (a little), 

Tannic acid, 

Bitartrate of potash. 

Anotlier analysis {Juice, ivhen ripe). 

Odorous matter, 

Sugar, 

Gum, 

Glutinous matter. 

Malic acid and malate of lime, 

Bitartrate of potash, 

Supertartrate of lime. 

{Jiiic3j lohen unripe.) 

Wax, 

Chlorophylle, 
Tannin, 

Glutinous matter (deposit from the juice). 
Extractive, 

Sugar (uncrystallisable), 
Gallic acid. 

Tartaric acid (free), about 1'12 per cent. 
Malic acid (free), about 2*19 per cent. 
Bitartrate of potash, 

Malate, phosphate, sulphate, and muriate of lime. 

5—2 



68 



CAN WE PEOLONG LIFE T 



Tamarind. 




Citric acid . 


9-40 


Tartaric acid 


1-55 


Malic acid . 


. 0-45 


Bitartrate of potash 


. 3-25 


Sugar 


12-50 


Gum 


4-70 


Vegetable jelly, pectine 


. 6-25 


Parenchyma (liquorice) 


. 34-35 


Water 


27-55 


Total . 


100-00 




Pekeika 


Oeange (Juice). 




Citric acid. 




Malic acid. 




Mucilage, 




Albumeu, 




Sugar, 




Citrate of lime. 




Water. 





Melon {Flesh). 
Crystallisable sugar . . . .1*5 

Pectic acid ..... traces 

Uncrystallisable sugar, vegetable albumen, mu- 
cilage, free acid, suponifiable fat, nitrogenous 
matter, colouring matter, aromatic matter, 
starch, lignine, salts, water . . . 98-5 



Total 



. 100-0 
Ibid. 



CAN WE PEOLONG LIFE ? 



69 



Lemon (Juice), 
Citric acid. 
Malic acid. 
Gum, 

Bitter extractive. 
Water. 

Eed Cuerant [Juice] 
Citric acid. 
Malic acid. 
Sugar, 

Vegetable jelly. 
Gum, 
Extractive. 



Pereira. 



Black Ccreant. 
" Constituents similar to those of tlie red currants, 
with the addition of a peculiar volatile principle, and a 
violet colouring matter.^^ 

Goosebereies. 





Unripe, 


Bipe, 


Nitrogenous matter 


1-07 


0-86 


Colouring matter 


0-03 


0-00 


Lignine and seeds . 


. 8-45 


8-01 


Gum (pectine ?) 


1-36 


0-78 


Sugar 


0-52 


6-24 


Malic acid . 


. 1-80 


2-41 


Citric acid 


. 012 


0-31 


Lime 


0-24 


0-29 


Water 


. 86-41 


81-10 


Total 


. 100-00 


100-00 
Ibid 



70 CAN WE PROLONG LIFE ? 

MULBEEEIES. 

Colouring matter. Sugar, 

Pectine, "Woody fibre, 

Bitartrate of potash. Water. 



Pineapple ( 


Juice) . 


Peculiar aroma. 


Citric acid. 


Sugar, 


Tartaric acid. 


Gum, 


Water. 


Malic acid. 





Raspberry. 

Volatile oil, 

Citric acid, 

Malic acid, 

Crystallisable fermentable sugar, 

Red colouring matter. 

Mucus, 

Woody fibre, 

Pectine, 

Asbes containing carbonate, phosphate, and 
muriate of potash, carbonate and phosphate 
of lime and magnesia ; silica and oxide of iron. 

Strawberry. 
Peculiar volatile aroma. 
Sugar, 
Mucilage, 
Pectine, 

Citric and malic acids, equal parts. 
Woody fibre. 
Pericarp, and water. 



CAN WE PROLONG LIFE 



71 



Apeicot. 





Unripe. 


Ripe. 


Nitrogenous matter . 


. 0-76 


0-17 


Colouring matter 


. 0-04 


0-10 


Lignine 


. 3-61 


1-86 


Gum (pectine ?) 


. 4-10 


5-12 


Sugar 


. traces 


16-48 


Malic acid . 


. 2-10 


1-83 


Lime_, very small quantity 


. 


... 


Water 


. 89-39 
. 100-00 


74-44 


Total 


100-00 






Pereiea. 


Greenga 


GE. 






Unripe. 


Ripe. 


Nitrogenous matter . 


. 0-45 


0-28 


Colouring matter 


. 0-03 


0-08 


Lignine 


. 1-26 


Ml 


Gum (pectine ?) 


. 5-53 


2-06 


Sugar 


. 17-71 


24-81 


Malic acid . 


. 0-45 


0-56 


Lime 


. trace 


trace 


Water 


. 74-57 


71-10 


Total . 


. 100-00 


100-00 
Ibid. 



In the analyses of tlie apricot^ greengage_, peach, 
and cherry. Dr. Pereira has omitted pectine, which is 
contained in most fruits, he remarks : " Pectine, or 
vegetable jelly, is here omitted, but is also contained 
in currants (red, white, and black), apples (both sweet 



72 



CAN WE PEOLONG LIFE ? 



and sour), pears_, quinces^ strawberries_, bilberries,. 
mulberries_, cherries, love-apples, oranges, lemons, 
quava, tamarind, also in the Jerusalem articboke and 
onion, in tbe carroty turnip, celery, beet, etc." 



Peach. 





Unripe 


Ripe. 


Nitrogenous matter . 


. 0-41 


0-93 


Colouring matter 


. 0-27 


0-00 


Lignine 


. 3-01 


1-21 


Gum (pectine ?) 


. 4-22 


4-85 


Sugar 


. 0-63 


11-61 


Malic acid . 


1-07 


1-10 


Lime 


. 0-08 


0-06 


Water 


. 90-31 


80-24 


Total 


. 100-00 


100-00 
Peeeiea 


Cheery. 








Unripe. 


Ripe. 


Nitrogenous matter . 


0-20 


0-57 


Colouring matter 


0-05 


0-00 


Lignine 


2-44 


1-12 


Gum (pectine ?) 


6-01 


3-23 


Sugar 


1-12 


18-12 


Malic acid . 


1-75 


201 


Lime 


0-14 


0-10 


Water 


88-29 


74-85 


Total . 


100-00 


100-00 




_ 


Thid. 



CAN WE PROLONG LIFE T 



75 



Peaes {Jargonelle). 



Nitrogenous matter . 

Colouring matter 

Resin, soluble in acohol 

Lignine 

Gum (pectine ?) 

Sugar 

Malic acid . 

Lime 

Water 



Unripe. 
0-08 
0-08 
0-00 
3-80 
317 
6-45 
Oil 
0-03 

86-28 



Ripe. 

0-21 

001 

0-00 

219 

2-07 

11-52 
0-08 
0-04 

83-88 



Total . . 100-00 10000 

Apples (Average composition). 



Nitrogenous matter 


. 0-44 


Colouring matter 


. 0-10 


Lignine 


. 1-40 


Gum 


. 3-45 


Sugar 


. 16-50 


Malic acid . 


. 1-10 


Lime 


. 0-01 


Water 


. 77-00 


Total . 


. 100-00 


ANIMAL 


FOOD. 


100 parts of muscle or lean 


of 


Water. 


Albumen 



liotten. 
0-301 
0-000 
0-058 
2-534 
3-400 

11-417 
0-786 

traces 

81-500 

99-996 



Beef contains 74 20 

Veal „ 75 19 



Gelatine. 

6 
6 



74 



CAN WE PROLONG LIFE ? 



100 parts of muscle or lean of 







Water. 


Albumen 
or fibrine. 


Gelatir 


Mutton contains 


71 


22 


7 


Pork 




76 


19 


5 


Chicken 




73 


20 


7 


Codfisli 




79 


14 


7 


Haddock 




82 


13 


5 


Sole 




79 


15 


6 

Brande. 



Composition per cent, of carcases, excluding head 
and feet : 



Animals as fat- 
tened for the 
butcher. 


matter, g^bstance. 


Fat. 


Total dry 
substance. 


Water. 


Calf . 


. 4-5 16-5 


16-5 


37-5 


62-5 


Bullock 


. 5-0 15-0 


30-0 


50-0 


50-0 


Lamb . 


. 3-5 11-0 


35-0 


49-5 


50-5 


♦Sheep . 


. 3-5 12-5 


40-0 


56-0 


44-0 


Pig . 


. 1-5 10-0 


50-0 


61-5 


38-5 



Composition, in 100 parts 



Mineral 
matter. 


Gelatin. 


Fibrine, 
or albumen. 


Yeal . 4-5 


7-5 


9-0 


Beef . 5-0 


7-0 


8-0 


Mutton 3*5 


7-0 


5'5 


Pork . 1-5 


5-5 


4-5 



Fat. 


Water. 


16-5 


62-5 


30-0 


50-0 


40-0 


44-0 


50-0 


38-5 



The following analysis by De Bibra gives a proxi- 



CAN WE PROLONG LIFE 



75 



mate idea of the proportion!^ of alkaline and earthy 
salts in muscle : 



Muscles dried 
at 100° C. 


rcentage 
ashes in 
iscles. 




It 


ca-Salt. 


1^ 




^^^ 


<^ 


f^ ® 


m 


c/2 O 




fn or^ 


p-l 


Ph 






Hare 


4-48 


79-80 


15-10 


4-20 


0-90 


Roebuck 


4-68 


72-00 


20-60 


1-00 






Ox 


7-71 


76-80 


16-40 


6-50 






•Calf 


.*. 


89-80 


10-20 


• • • 






Fowl 


5-51 


84-72 


13-89 


1-39 






AVild-duck 


4-48 


84-00 


14-80 


1-20 






Perch 


7-08 


54-39 


44-34 


1-27 






Carp 


6-10 


44-19 


42-20 


1-31 


12-30 



Cheese {Cheddar). 




Water .... 


. 36-0 


Curd, caseine, or cheesy matter 


. 29-0 


Fatty matter^ or butter 


. 30-5 


Ashes (bone material) 


6-5 


Total . 


. 102-0 


Cheese (SMm-mill-). 





Water .... 

Curd, caseine, or cheesy matter 
Fatty matter, or butter 
Ashes 

Total 



44-0 

45-0 

60 

5-0 



100-0 

SiBSON. 



76 



CAN 


WE PROLONG LIFE ? 






Milk 


{Cow's). 




Water 


. 






86-0 


Caseine 


. 






5-0 


Butter 


. 






3-5 


Sugar of milk 






4-5 


Salts 


• 






10 


Total 


- 




' 


100-0 




Milk 


{A. 


^s's). 




Water 








90-0 


Caseine 


, 






2-0 


Butter 


. 






1-5 


Sugar of milk 






60 


Salts 


• 






0-5 


Total 


. 






100-0 



According to Berzelius^ milk contains : 



Water 




. 92875 


Curd, with a little cream 




. 28-00 


Sugar of milk 




. 35-00 


Muriate of potash 




1-70 


Phosphate of potash 




0-25 


Lactic acid and acetate of 


pot 


ash, with a trace 


of lactate of iron . 




600 


Earthy phosphates 




030 


Total . 


. 1000-00 



CAN WE PROLONG LIFE f 



77 



Milk (Human), 
Water 
Caseine 
Butter 

Sugar of milk 
Salts . 



89-5 
3-0 
30 
40 
0-5 



Total . . 1000 

Earthy matter, obtained by incineration of 
parts of cow^s milk. Two instances : 



1,000 





I. 


II. 


Phospliate of lime 


. 2-31 


3-44 


Phosphate of magnesia 


. 0-42 


0-64 


Phosphate of peroxide of iron . 


. 0-07 


0-07 



Total . . . 2-80 4-15 

Haidlen. 
The total ash in these instances was 490 and 6*77 
respectively; the earthy matter, therefore, amounted 
to more than half. 

The flesh of most fish contains from 1*2 to 1*4 per 
cent, of salts, a less average than most animal foods. 
Composition of thk Oyster. — Pasquier. 



Flesh. 
Fibrin 
Albumen 
Gelatin y^'M 
Osmazome | 
Mucus J 
Water 87*4 



Liquor, or Water. 
Osmazome 
Albumen 

Chloride of sodium 
Sulphate of lime 
Sulphate of magnesia 
Chloride of magnesia. 

Water. 

Total 100-0 

^' By incineration, the organic matters yield 1*84 of 
a white ash, containing phosphate of lime^ and the 
same salts as the liquor contains.^^ 



78 



CAN WE PEOLONG LIFE?. 



Nutritive Yalue of Foods- Letheby. 



Proportion of 

Salts to 

nitrogenous 

constituents. 

(C. Del. E.) 



Substances, 100 
parts. 



lin 


17T) 


lin 


6-4 


j» 




1) 
lin 


9-5 


lin 


31-6 


1 in 


17-5 


lin 


6-4 


lin 


9-0 


lin 


9-3 


1 in 


12-5 


1 in 


12-3 


lin 


15-8 


1 in 


12-1 


1 in 


7-6 


lin 


6-4 


lin 


•5 


lin 


•4 


lin 


"5 


lin 


5-2 


1 in 


23 


lin 


6-3 


1 in 


7-3 


lin 


6-6 


lin 


12-6 


lin 


3-9 


lin 


3-5 


lin 


2-8 


lin 


2-8 



Human milk 
Cow's milk 
Skimmed milk 
Butter-milk 
Beef and mutton 
Veal 
Poultry- 
Bacon 

Cheese (Cheddar) 
Cheese (skimmed) 
Butter 
Eggs 

White of egg 
Yolk of egg 
White fish 
Salmon 
Eel 

Wheat flour 
Barley-meal 
Oat-meal 
Eye-meal 
Indian-meal 
Bice 
Haricot 
Pease 
Beans 
Lentils 
AVheat-bread 
Rye-bread 
Potatoes 
Green vegetables 
Arrow-root 







-^ t." . 






Water 


J3 rv 


Ill 


Fat. 


09 




< 


rjzv: 




a: 


89 


3-5 


4-2 


3-0 


0-2 


86 


4-5 


5-0 


4-1 


0-7 


87 


4-5 


5-0 


2-7 


0-7 


87 


4'5 


5-0 


05 


0-7 


73 


19-0 


— 


5-0 


2 -a 


77 


19-0 


— 


10 


0-6 


74 


210 


— 


3-0 


1-2 


20 


0-8 


— 


70-0 


1-3 


36 


29-0 


— 


30-0 


4-5 


44 


45-0 


— 


60 


50 


15 


— 


— 


83-0 


2-0 


74 


14-0 


— 


10-5 


1-5 


78 


20-0 


— 


— 


1-6 


52 


16-0 


— 


30-0 


1-3 


79 


19-0 


— 


ro 


1-2 


78 


17-0 


— 


40 


1-4 


80 


100 


— 


8-0 


1-3 


15 


iro 


70-0 


20 


1-7 


15 


10-0 


70-0 


2-4 


2-0 


15 


12-0 


62-0 


6-0 


3 


15 


9-0 


660 


2-0 


1-8 


14 


9 


65-0 


8-0 


1-7 


14 


7-0 


76 


0-3 


0-3 


19 


23-0 


45-0 


3-0 


3-6 


13 


22-0 


58-0 


2-0 


3-0 


14 


24-0 


44-0 


1-4 


3-6 


14 


290 


44-0 


1-5 


2-3 


44 


9-0 


49-0 


1-0 


2-3 


48 


5-0 


46-0 


1-0 


1-4 


74 


2-0 


23-0 


0-2 


0-7 


86 


2-0 


4-0 


0-5 


0-7 


18 


— 


82-0 


— 


— 



CAN WE PEOLONG LIFE ? 79 



CHAPTER 111.— (cmtinued). 

Feom the foregoing analyses we see that fruits, as 
distinct from vegetables, have the least amount of 
earthy salts ; most of them contain a large quantity of 
water, but that water in itself is of the purest kind — a 
distilled water of nature, and has in solution vegetable 
albumen. 

We also notice that they are to a great extent free 
from the oxidised albumens — glutinous and fibrinous 
substances, and many of them contain acids — citric, 
tartaric, malic, etc. — which when taken into the system 
act directly upon the blood, by increasing its solu- 
bility, by thinning it; the process of circulation is more 
easily carried on, and the blood flows more easily in 
the capillaries (which become lessened in calibre as 
age advances) than it would if of a thicker nature. By 
this means the blood flows easily in vessels which have 
been perhaps for years lost to the passage of a thicker 
fluid. Further, these acids loiver the temperature of 
the body, therefore the process of wasting, combustion, 
or oxidation, which increases in ratio to the tempera- 
ture of the body, as indicated by the thermometer. 

These acids are chiefly compounds of carbon, hy- 
drogen, and oxygen; they differ from the mineral 
acids in being burnt up in the system, and are there- 
fore not traceable to the secretions and excretions. 

Some fruits contain tannic acid, which acts bene- 
ficially on the system, by tanning or hardening the 
albuminous and gelatinous structures — rendering them 



€0 CAN WE PKOLONG LIFE ? 

more leather-like^ and less susceptible to the corroding 
action of atmospheric oxygen, therefore less liable to 
waste or decay. 

Most fruits contain, combined with the above men- 
tioned acids, alhalies, generally potash, which, on the 
combustion of the acids (citric, tartaric, etc.), are left 
in solution in the blood. 

Alkalies increase the solubility of albumen and 
fibrin, and therefore tend to prevent undue fibrinous 
accumulation in or around the smaller bloodvessels. 

Fruits contain very little nitrogen, as compared with 
the so-called nitrogenous or highly-nourishing foods. 
Many physiologists and physiological chemists have 
calculated the amount of nitrogen they think it neces- 
sary to sustain life. This amount was dictated to 
them by experiments : these experiments were to find 
the amount excreted by the system. 

It is a simple fact that the greater the quantity of 
nitrogen taken into the system, the greater is the 
amount eliminated; and it is very often observed in 
overfed people, that organs whose purpose is to elimi- 
nate nitrogenous products are unable to carry off any 
great excess, and free nitrogen is often eliminated by 
the skin. 

Therefore this process of inquiry cannot possibly 
give a correct result. 

A proper estimate of the amount of nitrogen re- 
quired to sustain life can only be obtained by direct 
experiments — that is, living for a time on one class of 
food, then on another, and calculating* the amount 
taken into the system, and the amount excreted, and 
during the time the experiments are carried on to 




CAX WE VROLOXG LIFE ? 81 

weigli the body in order to ascertain loss or gain.* 
By this means a proximate amount required to keep 
the body in equilibrio may be obtained. 

By experiments on ourselves, on friends, and on 
natives of tropical regions, we find a comparatively 
small quantity of nitrogen necessary to sustain life, 
in good bodily health — in fact, fruits, taken as a class, 
contain sufficient nitrogen to sustain human life.f 

Many authors state that five or six ounces of gumf 
(which contains carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, and little 
or no nitrogen), in the twenty-four hours, is sufficient 
to sustain life. 

Adanson states that the nomadic Moors have 
scarcely any other food than gum-senegal, and 
Hasselquist asserts, that a caravan of Abyssinians, 
consisting of 1000 persons, subsisted for two months 
on gum-arabic alone. 

Humboldt relates that the natives on the coast of 
Caraccas prefer sugarj to animal food, and we have 
ourselves observed on the West Coast of Africa many 
tribes who subsist upon foods which contain compara- 
tively little nitrogen. 

Plants absorb most of their nitrogen from the air. 
If a vegetable be supplied with ammonia (a compound 
of nitrogen and hydrogen), those parts of it which 

* The weight of the body is not necessarily a criterion of the 
value of food, because tlie weight may not alter, but water in- 
crease, and albumen and fat diminish in the system. 

t The amount of nitrogen excreted is often greater than the 
amount taken into the system as food and drink. 

X Inipure gum and raiv sugar contain small quantities of 
nitrogen. 

6 



82 CAN WE PKOLONG LIFE ? 

wouldj without ifc, be deposited as starcli (whidi con- 
tains no nitrogen) become gluten, a substance wliich 
contains the same elements as albumen (carbon, hy- 
drogen, oxygen, and nitrogen). 

It has been argued that fruits will not sustain life 
because they do not contain sufficient nitrogen ; this 
argument is founded upon a theory which is demon- 
strably incorrect, and it is an ascertained fact that 
fruits alone will support life in good bodily health. 

The experiments of Macaire and Marcet prove that 
the blood contains more nitrogen than chyle.* 

As the blood is formed from the chyle, the excess 
of nitrogen found in the blood must have another 
source than from the intestines, which source can only 
be the lungs or the skin, both of which are exposed 
to the atmosphere. 

Sir Humphry Davy states, that in his experiments 
the absorption of nitrogen took place to the extent 
of 2246 grains in the twenty-four hours. 

When nitrogen comes in contact with hydrogen in 
a nascent state in an enclosed space, the two unite 
and form ammonia. Hydrogen is developed in the 
intestines and in the capillaries, therefore throughout 
the system wherever there is waste of tissue. It is 
possible that either ammonia, coming in contact with 
amylaceous substances destitute of nitrogen, or that 
these bodies, containing carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen, 

** This can be only partially accounted for in the lacteals ; 
after passing through the mesenteric glands, and receiving the 
lymph from the spleen, fat is decreased, fibrin increased, in 
their contents. 




CAN WE PEOLONa LIFE ? 83 

may unite directly with free nitrogen — the combina- 
tion resulting in albumen or protein. 

Now, fruits will sustain life, and all fruits contain 
carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen, and most of them a 
small quantity of nitrogen ; and if these fruits which 
will sustain life do not contain sufficient nitrogen, may 
not man, who breathes and is in contact with an 
atmosphere (four-fifths of which are nitrogen), by 
means of his lungs, the surface of which is supposed 
to be more than twenty times that of the whole body, 
absorb the necessary nitrogen directly from the at- 
mosphere ? 

From careful observation on the diet of natives in 
tropical regions, and from direct experiments in 
England, we may state that this is positively the 
case. 

This is often observed in the herbivora : their 
natural food contains little nitrogen, still it is found 
in their flesh to about the same extent as in the car- 
nivora. Further, the carnivora live on food rich in 
nitrogen — yet one is as well nourished as the other. 

Speaking of the ancients, Hesiod, the Greek poet, 
says : " The uncultivated fields afforded them their 
fruits, and supplied their bountiful and unenvied re- 
past.^^ 

Porphyry, a Platonic philosopher of the third cen- 
tury, a man of great talent and learning, says : '^ The 
ancient Greeks lived entirely upon the fruits of the 
>earth.'' 

Lucretius,* on the same subject, says : 

'■^' Creech's translation. 



84 - CAN WE PROLOXG LIFE ? 

" Soft acorns were their first and cliiefest food, 
And those red apples that adorn the wood. 
The nerves that joined their limbs were firm and strong ; 
Their life was healthy, and their age was long. . . . 
Eeturning years still saw them in their prime ; 
They wearied e'en the wings of measuring Time : 
No colds, nor heats, no strong diseases wait, 
And tell sad news of coming hasty fate : 
Nature not yet grew weak, not yet began 
To shrink into an inch the largest span." 

Wherever we find animal life tbrougbout nature, 
we find its manifestation in development, growth, and 
nutrition depending upon the presence of albumen. 
The first visible state of an organised being is albu- 
men; it is built up from albumen; its harder struc- 
tures are caused by the oxidation of albumen ; its food 
is albumen, which may (with the exception of what 
little may be formed* in the system) always be traced 
to, and was originally vegetable albumen; if that 
food be vegetable food, this substance comes directly 
from the vegetable : if it be animal food, it comes 
originally from the vegetable through the medium of 
the animal. 

'' The continuance of life is indissolubly connected 
with its presence in the blood — that is, in the nutrient 
fluid j only those substances are in a strict sense nu- 
tritious articles of food which contain either albumen, 
or a substance capable of being converted into albu- 
men.''^ LlEBIG. 

It is one of nature's laics, and a very simple one, 
that we are built up from what originally was vege- 

Formed in the system by the union of amylaceous sub- 
stances with nitrogen. 



CAN WE PROLONG LIFE ? 85 

table albumen ; and with tlie exception of the alkaline 
and earthy salts, every structure and organ in our 
bodies was developed from and is nourished by albu- 
men. It teas one of the laws of Eden that man should 
eat albumen — vegetable albumen — in its purest form, 
as it exists in fruits. 

There is_, therefore,, a simplicity, a reason, a wonder- 
ful philosophy in the first command given to man. 

Man may live entirely upon fruits, in better health 
than the majority of mankind now enjoy. Good, 
sound, ripe fruits are never a cause of disease, but 
the vegetable acids, as we have before stated, lower 
the temperature of the body, decrease the process of 
combustion or oxidation — therefore the waste of the 
system — less sleep* is required, activity is increased, 
fatigue or thirst hardly experienced : still the body is 
well nourished, and as a comparatively small quantity 
of earthy salts are taken into the sj^stem, the cause of 
*^ old age" is in some degree removed, the effect is de- 
layed, and life is prolonged to a period far beyond our 
*^ threescore years and ten.^^ 

Animal flesh, taken as a class, contains, next to fruits, 
the least amount of earthy salts. The amount depends, 
flrstly, upon the quantity contained in the food of the 
animal ; secondly, upon the duration of time the animal 
has eaten such food — that is, its age. Younger 

^' On one occasion, when living for five days entirely upon 
oran(j€.% our temperature was lessened, still we felt a pleasant 
glov/ throughout the system ; but to other individuals we felt 
cold, animal heat is therefore only relative ; we further found 
that only three or four hours' sleep was re(iuired in the twenty- 
four hours. 



S6 CAN WE PROLONG LIFE ? 

animals of every class contain a less amount of eartliy 
salts in their flesh, than older ones ; thus veal, in the 
analyses generally given, contains only about one- 
fourth the amount of earthy salts found in an equal 
weight of the flesh of an adult animal, and it further 
contains from 12 to 15 per cent, more phosphoric acid 
than is necessary for the formation of salts. 

From this we see that the younger the animal, the 
less ossifying matter does its flesh contain ; we should, 
therefore, select either growing animals or those just 
arrived at maturity, in preference to older animals, as 
a diet. 

Amongst animal flesh we include /^/i. Those which 
have fins and scales contain, on an average, a per- 
centage less salts (about '7) than animal flesh, and are 
therefore, to a certain extent, better adapted as a diet 
to longevity than butchers^ meat. Fish also contains 
phosphorus ; this is especially marked in most shell- 
fish, which, however, contain more earthy matter than 
fish with fins and scales. 

The flesh of poultry and game (if young) contains 
less earthy salts than beef or mutton. 

Animal flesh without fat will support life ; gelatine 
or jelly, although containing nearly as much nitrogen 
as muscular fibre, will not : the reason is that digestion 
is incapable of converting it into albumen. Dogs fed 
on gelatine alone soon died, but they have lived many 
months on pure albuminous matter. 

'' The true unsophisticated American Indians near 
the sources of the Missouri, during the winter months, 
are reported to subsist entirely upon dried buffalo 
flesh — not the fat portions, but the muscular part. . . . 



CAN WE PROLONG LIFE ? 87 

DuriDg their subsistence on dried pemmican, they are 
described by travellers^ who were intimate with, their 
habits of life, as never tasting even the most minute 
portions of any vegetable whatever, or partaking of 
any other variety of food. These facts, then, tend to 
show that albuminous tissue is of itself capable of sus- 
taining life." — Dr. Thompson. 

In other articles of animal food we have milk, un- 
skimmed, skimmed, and butter-milk ; they all contain 
about '7 per cent, of salts; but the latter contains a 
large quantity of lactic acid, which has a great 
tendency to prevent the accumulation of earthy matter 
in the system. 

Cheese contains salts in about the same proportion 
as milk deprived of its water. It seems by its analysis 
to have a large quantity of salts (nearly 5 per cent.), 
but they exist in ratio to its highly nourishing pro- 
perties. 

Butter is composed of fat, and contains about 2 per 
cent, of salts. It is not a fat either formed or altered 
in the animal economy. It may be artificially pro- 
duced from grass, and may therefore be termed the 
''fat of the land." 

Eggs contain 1*5 per cent, of salts ('5 per cent, less 
than beef and mutton). 

We will now briefly consider the vegetable roots. 
The potato contains '9 per cent, of salts, 1*4 of albu- 
minous matter, and 13-5 of starch; it contains sugar, 
a small quantity of fat, and a small proportion of free 
citric acid. 

The onion is very nutritious, and it contains small 
quantities of phosphate of lime, but there is an excess 



88 CAN WE PEOLONG LIFE ? 

of phosplioric acid; also mucilage, and a substance 
analogous to gluten. 

Most other roots contain a large quantity of water, 
and, in proportion to their nutrient properties, a large 
quantity of fibrous and earthy matter. Most other 
vegetahles have about the same nourishing properties 
as the potato, about the same amount of earthy 
salts,* but contain more water and less starch. The 
cucumber and fungi are exceptions, and are similar to 
fruit. 

We now come to the cereals^ in which we will in- 
clude the leguminous seeds. The amount of earthy 
salts they contain depends upon the amount contained 
in the soil, or in substances used as manure. 

The cereals constitute the basis of man^s food ; they 
mostly contain large quantities of mineral matter,t 
and as a class are the worst adapted as a food for man, 

* The amount of earthy salts they contain depends entirely 
upon the soil in which they are grown. If we take one dram 
of cress-seed, incinerate it, and weigh the amount of salts it 
contains ; and if we take another dram of the same seed, and 
place it on flannel (which has been soaked for some weeks in 
distilled water to free it from soluble salts) in a vessel, and fill 
the vessel with distilled water, to a level with the flannel, the 
seeds will grow and become plants, almost as perfect as if 
grown in soil ; if we then dry and incinerate these plants, they 
are found to contain exactly the same amount of salts as that 
existing in the seed from which they grew. The salts pre- 
viously contained in the seeds have been, by the process of 
growth, distributed in the substance of the plants. 

t " The system obtains its supply of earthy substances from 
both animal and vegetable foods. Corn, potatoes, milk, and 
i\iQ flesh and hlood of animals furnish us with more than the 
wants of the system required — Dk. Pereika. 



CAN Vv'E PROLONG LIFE ? 89 

in regard to a long life. Man^s so-called '^ staff of 
life^^ is, to a great extent, the cause of liis premature 
death. 

''Notwithstanding that bread is denominated the 
staff of life, alone it does not appear to be capable of 
supporting iirolonged human existence. Boussingault 
came to this conclusion from observing the small 
quantity of nitrogen which it contains; and the Re- 
ports of the Inspectors of Prisons, on the effect of 
a diet of bread and water, favour this opinion. ^^ — 
Pereira. 

Magendie fed a dog exclusively on fine wheaten 
bread — it died in forty days ; whilst another dog, fed 
on black bread (brown bread — flour with the bran), 
lived without any disturbance in good health. 

The nutrient part of wheat is chiefly gluten. Bran 
is rich in gluten, and should therefore not he re- 
moved. 

Leguminous seeds (peas, beans, etc.) are supposed 
to be less nutritive than the cereals, although the 
former contain more nitrogen than the latter. This 
Liebig attributes to a deficiency of earthy ]jhosphates, 
which, however, could not be the reason, as Broconnot 
gives feas as containing 9 '2 6 grains per ounce of 
earthy phosphates. This is nearly twice the quantity 
found in wheat, and more than twenty times the 
amount in an equal weight of beef. 

Phosphoric acid and the alkalies have both of them 
remarkable properties, and play an important part in 
the growth and nutrition of plants and animals. 

This cannot be said of the earthy salts. They de- 
velop the bones of animals, but when this is accom- 



90 CAN WE PKOLONG LIFE ? 

plislieci they accumulate and cause tlie ossification of 
'^old age^^ — even "natural deatli." 

We shouldj therefore, after we arrive at maturity^ 
avoid as much as possible earthy salts in our food. 

Many interesting and well-conducted experiments of 
agricultural chemists agree, and give the following 
facts : 

1. Vegetables and cereals grown in soil containing 
a small percentage of earthy salts, contain a less 
amount than those grown in soil rich in earthy salts. 

2. The greater the quantity of earthy salts contained 
in the food on which an animal subsists, the greater is 
the amount found in the secretions and excretions, and 
the greater is the amount found in the flesh of the 
animal. 

3. The less the amount of earthy salts in the food, 
the less the amount found in the secreticms and ex- 
cretions, and the less the amount in the flesh. The 
result of these experiments thus favours in the abstract 
what we adopt in the principle. 

From these facts it is clear, that in growing cereals 
and vegetables directly for the consumption of man, 
or indirectly for the food of animals on which he partly 
subsists. Lime or any of its compounds should not he 
used as a manure. Alkalies do not accumulate in the 
system, there is, therefore, no objection to their use. 

We therefore see that the different kinds of food, in 
regard to longevity, have the following order : fruits, 
fish, animal food (flesh, eggs, etc.), vegetables, cereals. 

In the same order do we trace the age of man by 
his diet. It is written that man in the first ages lived 
for a period which to us seems incredible ; but in the 



CAN WE PROLONG LIFE ? 91 

present generation tlie average time of life is so short, 
that a man at eighty or ninety years is truly a modern 
'' patriarch/' Man's first and ordained diet was fruits ; 
he then eat animal food, which was subsequently 
permitted to him ; after this he gained a knowledge 
of agriculture — he grew vegetables and cereals ; and 
not content with this, during the last few years, he has 
learned to add lime artificially to them — to shrink and 
lessen an already shortened existence. 

In nature a curious yet simple phenomenon is often 
observed — a Q-ise and fall. If perpetual, it alternates 
and becomes a fall and rise. We notice it in the sun, 
in gravity, in fluctuation, in the tides, and even in the 
rise and fall of empires. 

Man has degenerated — this degeneration is due 
solely to his diet. He has fallen ; but we hope that 
he has risen to the highest point in the art of shorten- 
ing his days, and that in the present generation he 
will commence to gradually /a ZZ back on his original 
and ordained diet. Since the creation, the days of 
man's existence have been little by little decreasing — 
it has been a gradual fall ; but both science and re- 
ligion tell us that he must rise again, that his life on 
earth must be prolonged. This can only be accom- 
plished by a gradual alteration in his diet. 

Let us imagine a man, who is a great smoker, 
suddenly deprived of tobacco. What would be his 
feelings ? 

Let us picture to ourselves a man, enjoying* all the 
luxuries and enjoyments of modern life, suddenly de- 
prived of them. What would be his feelings ? They 
would both be for a time wretched and miserable. 



92 CAN WE PROLONG LIFE ? 

It is not our pm'pose to dictate a course whicli would 
liave a similar result. Our purpose is by pointing out 
a method of gradually altering diet, to endeavour to 
improve and benefit humanity, and to lengthen the 
days and increase the happiness of man. 

" Nature is frugal, and her wants are few/' Man 
in the savage state is generally healthy, in the civilised 
state he is generally unhealthy ; and, as Dr. Thompson 
says, " There is no doubt that a simple diet is more 
fitted to accelerate health than unnatural and stimu- 
lating foods/' It is not necessary that man should 
return to the savage state in order that he should en- 
joy health, nor does it follow that because man in his 
wild state is healthy, civilised man should be diseased; 
particularly when he awakens to the fact that diet is 
the great cause of his sufferings, and that the antidote 
rests to a great extent with himself — that the nearer 
he approaches to his original diet, the more healthy 
will he be. 

'^ We cannot expect a nation to bound and stride 
into perfection at once. It was only by slow painful 
efforts that a nation worked out its redemption from 
darkness and ignorance."" — Lord Eosebery. 

It would be a difficult task, and a great tax on the 
system, for a man who lives on an ordinary mixed 
diet to suddenly change it. He must do this grad- 
ually; and in direct ratio as he does this will the 
tendency to disease decrease, and the prospect of long 
life increase. 

If we look at the ordinary articles of diet, we notice 
to a great extent the following- principle : that the 
more nitrosreuous substances — direct nourishment — a 



CAX WE PROLOXG LIFE ? 95 

food contains, tlie more earfcliy salts are there found in 
it j and the less the nourishment, the less the amount 
of earthy salts in the food. 

It is a well-known fact that the more nitrogenous 
substances a food contains, the less is the amount re- 
quired to nourish the body ; and inversely, the less the 
amount of these substances, the greater is the amount 
required to sustain life. If we take cheese and rice as 
an example, the former contains far more nitrogen, 
also far more earthy salts than the latter. But a small 
quantity of cheese will support life, whilst in order to 
live on rice, a man must eat a large quantity ; so that 
one man whilst eating a small quantity of cheese, rich 
in nitrogen and earthy salts, another, living on rice, 
must eat a proportionately large quantity ; and in the 
end both consume about the same amount of nitro- 
genous substances, and about the same amount of 
earthy salts. Fruits are the great exception to this 
rule, but others are observed, as for instance : one 
man subsists on bread, another, we will say, on 
mutton. In order to obtain the same nourishment in 
both cases, the bread-eater would have to eat more 
than twice the quantity consumed by the other, and 
he would further take into his system two and a half 
times more earthy salts than the flesh-eater. Lentils 
are another exception; and in proportion to their 
nourishing properties, they contain only one-third the 
amount of earthy salts as compared with bread. 

Before selecting a diet, or giving any rules thereon, 
a word on the question of quantity is requisite. One 
authority says '''that a full-grown man of average 
weight (140 to 150 lbs.), and height (5ft. 7in.), re- 



94 CAN WE PROLONG LIFE ? 

quires one-twentieth part of liis weight in food during 
the twenty-four hours; that is_, seven or seven and a 
half pounds of food, including solids and liquids, one 
to one and a half pound (sixteen to twenty-four ounces) 
being solids, the rest water. 

Another authority says eight pounds of food are 
required daily, two pounds of which must be solid, the 
rQTCi?dmng six pfoiinds liquid. 

Now these results are arrived at by indirect experi- 
ment, determining the waste; and we have before 
pointed out that this principle of inquiry canuot pos- 
sibly give a correct result, because the greater the 
amount of food and drink a man takes, into his system, 
the greater will be the amount of solids, liquids, and 
gases excreted and eliminated by the body. Direct 
-experiment only will give us a correct result, and we 
have positive evidence to show that little more than 
half the above quantities of solids are necessary to keep 
the body in equilibrio — to sustain life. 

'^ It may with truth be asserted that the greater part 
of mankind eat more than is necessary ; and by being 
crammed and over-fed in infancy, we are deprived of 
that natural sensation which ought to tell us when we 
have enough/' — Hufeland. 

A good instance of this is seen in the well-known 
case of Louis Cornaro, who, '^ till the fortieth year of 
his age, had led a life of dissipation . . . and was so 
far reduced that his physician assured him he could 
not live above two months ; that all medicines would 
be useless, and that the only thing which could be 
Tecom mended for him was a spare diet. Having fol- 
lowed this advice, he found, after some days, he was 



CAN WE PROLONG LIFE ? 95 

much, better; and at the end of a few years his health 
was not only perfectly re-established, but he became 
sounder than ever he had been before. . . . For sixty 
whole years he took no more than twelve ounces of food, 
everything included, and thirteen ounces of drinh, daily 
. . . When he was eighty years of age, his friends 
prevailed upon him to make a little addition to liis 
food . . . ; he gave way to their request, and raised 
his food to fourteen, and his drink to sixteen ounces. 
*" Scarcely,^ says he, ' had I continued this mode of 
living ten days, when I began, instead of being 
cheerful and lively as before, to become uneasy and 
dejected, a burden to myself and to others. . . . But 
by the blessing of God, and my former regimen, I re- 
covered ; and now, in my eighty- third year, I enjoy a 
happy state of body and mind. I can climb steep 
hills . . . and I am a stranger to those peevish and 
morose humours which fall so often to the lot of old 
age.' In this happy disposition he attained his hun- 
dredth year.'' — Hufeland. 

'' A cheerful and a good heart will have a care for 
his meat and diet." Gluttony is truly a sin, not legally 
punishable, but revengeful in itself on the individual ; 
it is the cause of a distinct debility from loss of nerve- 
power in digesting excess of food, and the sufferer, 
although gormandising and eating ravenously, becomes 
thinner and thinner, weaker and weaker, and in his 
efforts to nourish his pining frame he creeps nearer and 
nearer to the jaws of premature death. 

Obesity is sometimes caused by over-eating, but this 
is not always the case, for we see many corpulent 
persons who are very small eaters. Want of proper 
exercise is the commonest cause. 



96 CAN WE PROLONG LIFE ? 

Many diseases have excessive eating solely as a cause. 
Remove the cause, the effect cannot follow. A state 
of bodily equilibrium, which we will designate by the 
word health, is the result of a conformity to the laws of 
nature ; apart from this, there can only be the condi- 
tions jplus and minus — excess or deficiency ; and where 
either of these diverge to any considerable extent, we 
have disease. 

Although thoroughly acquainted with the effects of 
deficient food, on inquiry we are bound to come to the 
conclusion that many cases of starvation — the results 
of famine or insufficient nourishment — are often duo to 
the quality, more than the quantity, of food. 

Dr. Aitken quotes the following diet of labourers 
under the old ^' truck system,^' which was often the 
cause of outbreaks of scurvy : '^ His daily diet con- 
sisted of one j^ennyworth of hrcad, icith tea, hut no milk, 
in the morning ; no dinner ; and one pennyworth of 
bread, with tea, and no milk, in the evening. After 
existing three months on this diet, the disease broke 
out." What else could be expected ? Bread alone is 
not a proper diet for man. Had he added to it but a 
small quantity of his original, ordained, and best 
adapted diet — fruits, experience tells us he would not 
have been afflicted. 

White bread and gelatin are popularly supposed to 
be very nutritious. Now a man may feed an animal 
on bread and gelatin, and under the erroneous impres- 
sion he is feeding the animal well, give it pounds a 
day, but many experiments tell us that in time the 
animal will die of starvation — deficiency of proj)er 
nourishing food. 



CAN WE PROLOXG LIFE ? 97 

Did man know the qualitij of foods, had he the 
power of discriminating why he should eat this and 
avoid that, he would be able to live on far less than ho 
at present does_, and he would further be less subject 
to disease. For this reason we think that it is requisite 
that every child should be taught at school, and should 
be made acquainted with, the elements of himself and 
the food by which his body is nourished, in the full 
impression that his well-being depends more upon this 
knowledge than a study of the dead languages and 
theoretical sciences. 

This reminds us that as yet we have not mentioned 
childhood, but as our remarks are chiefly confined to 
those arrived at maturity, a lengthy discourse on the 
subject is unnecessary. A few words, however, may 
not be out of place. In the word childhood we will 
include that period of life which commences in infancy 
(at birth), and extends to early adult age (maturity). 
We therefore speak of that time of life during which 
the development of the different organs and textures 
is proceeding, and their functions becoming more 
perfect ; during which, also, the mental manifestations, 
intellectual, moral, and emotional, develop and gain 
strength. In infancy, or commencing childhood, the 
functions are chiefly vegetative, and the movements, 
to a great extent, automatic, and during this period 
all the organs, particularly the osseous, nervous, and 
locomotary systems, are in a state of development. 
During this period the infantas food is milh. 

In infancy, nourishment is' required for the growth 
of the soft structures — albumen will auswer this pur- 
pose ; also for the hard structures, cartilage and bone 

7 



98 CAN WE PROLONG LIFE ? 

—chondrine and the salts contained in milk "will do all 
tliat is necessary. 

The nutrient part of milk is chiefly its caseine, and 
if to the formula of caseine be added ten eqs. of 
oxygen, we obtain a formula which contains exactly 
the same elements as the albumen of blood and 
chondrine. 

The formulae as given by Liebig are : 



vSulphur. 


Nitrogen. Carbon. Hydrogen. Oxygen. 


Eqs. 


Eqs. Eqs. Eqs. Eqs. 


The formula of| 
chondrine is . J 


9 72 59 32 



Add the formula ^ 

of albumen of ^ 2 27 216 169 68 

blood . . j 



Total . 2 36 288 228 100 

Together = the^ 

formula of cas- V 2 36 288 228 90 



ine (of milk) J 
H- 10 eqs. of ) 
oxygen . | 



10 



The oxygen the child readily gets from the atmo- 
sphere by the process of respiration, and if to this we 
add the salts, alkaline and earthy, contained in milk, 
we find albumen as the chief constituent of its blood 
— the developing and nutrient fluid of every organ 
and structure; chondrine and salts, to develop its car- 
tilages and bones. Thus in milk nature supplies 
childhood with all its wants, and for this reason milk 
is a food better fitted to childhood than adult life. 

It is a well-known fact that children brought up on 



CAN WE PROLONG LIFE ? 99 

human milk are healtliier and more robust than 
children fed on cow's milk. The reason is obvious. 
The salts in human milk exist in ratio to its nourish- 
ing properties, as one part of salts to seventeen and a 
half parts of nitrogenous matter ; in coio's milk, as one 
part of salts to six and one -third parts of the same 
nourishing substances. Therefore, in round numbers, 
the nutrient part of cow's milk contains nearly three 
times the amount of salts as compared with human 
milk. The proportions of alkaline and earthy salts are 
proximately the same in the ashes of both, so that one 
ounce of caseine taken from cow's milk contains nearly 
three times the amount of earthy salts found in an equal 
weight of caseine from human milk. 

A human being takes four or five times longer to 
mature than a cow ; the latter therefore grows more 
quickly, and its bones ossify in a less period of time 
than the former, whose organs are more gradual in 
their development and growth — whose bones should 
take a longer time to ossify, and therefore nature gives 
a food which contains less earthy matter. If we do 
not follow nature's laws, some bad result must follow, 
a;nd one-half of our strumous children, who, besides 
their milk, are, as a rule, fed on bread and other fari- 
naceous foods — most of them rich in earthy compounds 
— are for their age, in years and months, bodily older 
than healthy and robust children of the same age. 

Rickets and mollities ossium are in themselves dis- 
eases, not necessarily caused by a deficiency of earthy 
salts in the food, but by a lack in the system of power 
to assimilate them. 

We can stunt the growth of the lower animals by 

7—2 



100 CAN WE PROLONG LIFE ? 

giving tliem an excess of earthy matter ; we can ossify 
tliem_, make tliem permanently old, and shorten their 
days_, by the same. In human beings we need not look 
further than the Cretins found in the valleys of the 
Alps, Pyrenees, and other regions. Although cre- 
tinism has two * distinct causes, the first and most 
important is that an excess of earthy matter — ^lime or 
magnesian lime — is taken into the system in solution 
in. water used for drinking purposes. Hereditary it 
must be to children born of parents suffering from 
this disease, if not removed from the cause ; but sound 
healthy children brought into districts where cretinism 
exists, are, at an early age, equally subject to the dis- 
ease w4th children born in them. 

Now these beings are, in their infancy, literally pre- 
maturely ossified, the development of the bones is 
arrested, the height being seldom more than four and 
a half feet. The bones of the cranium, which in a 
natural state should expand to allow the brain to grow 
and develop, at an early age becomes thickened^ 
hardened, and ossified to such an extent that expan- 
sion is impossible ; the brain, therefore, cannot develop ; 
it is gradually deprived of its blood-supply from below ; 

* The other cause is an electro-magnetic action due to the 
peculiar geologicaliovm?dions in some districts where cretinism 
prevails, and which influences the excretion of earthy salts from 
the system. For there are many recorded cases of this disease 
where the afflicted persons did not use lime, or hard water — in 
fact, where the water w\as soft, the sufferers eating the same or 
a similar diet to persons free from the disease, but not resident 
in the district. Both, therefore, take into their systems about 
the same amount of calcareous salts,,but the one excretes nearly 
the whole, the other ?^e^anis the same. 



CxiX WE PEOLONG LIFE ? 101 

it is encased and imprisoned by its own shield ; its in- 
tellectual part cannot develop ; tlie being is subservient 
to the animal portion ; he becomes voracious and las- 
civious, and in many cases sinks in intelligence below 
the level of many of the brutes. The age of Cretins 
is short, few of them reach thirty years, and, as Clayton 
remarks, "that although they die early, they soon 
present the appearance of s,ge." This miserable state 
of existence is due, to a great extent, to jyrematwre 
ossification. 

It is therefore clear that infants should be fed on 
human milk ; that children, during their growth, should 
not be fed almost entirely on foods rich in earthy salts 
— on a cereal or farinaceous diet ; time should be given 
for the expansion and development of their bodies. 
They should, therefore, eat a mixed diet — fruits or 
animal food in excess of the farinaceous ; and further, 
as use determines the shape of a limb, exercise and 
athletic games should be encouraged; and as the mind 
influences the character, sympathies, and welfare of 
man, and places him by its activity and development 
at the head of all animated creation, education — the 
fountain of intellectual manifestations, of sound prin- 
ciples of action and conduct, of the elegancies, accom- 
plishments, and endearments of life — should be carried 
out in a manner which will be attractive to, and appre- 
ciated by, the receiver of hnowledge ; so that in decom- 
posing the information thus acquired, and recombiniug 
it in useful and attractive forms, he may lay the foun- 
dation in learning, from the supervision and experience 
of the good, and upon it construct a castle of luisdom — • 
but not at the expense of bodily health. 



102 CAN WE PROLONG LIFE ? 

"Knowledge d^ndL^JVisdom, far from being one, 
Have ofttimes no connection. Knowledge dwells 
In heads replete with thoughts of other men ; 
Wisdom in minds attentive to their own. 
Knowledge, a rude unprofitable mass, 
The mere materials with which Wisdom builds, 
Till smooth'd, and squar'd, and fitted to its place, 
Doth but encumber whom it seems t' enrich. 
Knowledge is proud that he has learn'd so much ; 
Wisdom is humble that she knows no more." 

COWPER. 

To return to the subject of quantity of food required 
to sustain life, we affirm that most men eat more than 
is requisite for this purpose — more than is actually 
good for them. Man does not require four or five 
meals a day ; he would be in far better health on two, 
or at most three, meals in the twenty-four hours. 

Fruits are nutritious in themselves; but should they 
not contain sufficient nitrogen to satisfy a theoretical 
appetite, we have shown that all other elements are 
present, and that man may absorb the deficient nitrogen 
from the surrounding atmosphere, the combination re- 
sulting in albumen, or protein. For this reason, 
together witli the fact that they contain little earthy 
matter, fruits are man^s best diet if he truly desires a 
long life ; but considering the difficulties attending a 
sudden change of diet, and the necessity of conforming 
to the rules and usages of society, which we do not 
wish to usurp (and even did we desire this, we fear 
society would be the victor), we are induced to put 
forward a few simple and straightforward rides, which 
are founded upon observed facts, which are not oppres- 
sive or tyrannical, which would not interfere with the 



CAN WE PROLONG LIFE ? 



103 



avocations and callings of man, and which may be 
readily carried out by every one of the community for 
his own individual benefit, for health and long life. 

As we know there are many who could not be per- 
suaded to make any alteration in the articles of their 
diet, whilst there are others who might be influenced 
in this direction, we give a few rules for both these 
classes. 

To those who are not inclined to alter the articles 'of 
their diet, we say : 

1. Eat moderately, always remembering that you eat 
to live — to give a balance to the system. 

2. Take no more than three meals a day. 

o. Avoid eating large quantities of bread, pastry, and 
other farinaceous foods. 

To those who are willing to make alterations in their 
diet, the same rules will apply, but with this differ- 
ence : 

'EjSit fruits, if possible, at every meal, and commence 
with them ; if the appetite is not moderately satisfied, 
finish with the ordinary articles of diet. 



104' CAN WE PEOLOXG LIFE ? 



CHAPTER IV. 

INSTANCES OF LONGEVITY IN MAN AND TN THE ANIMAL 
AND VEGETABLE KINGDOMS. 

On reviewing nearly two thousand well-authenticated 
cases of persons who lived more than a century, we 
generally find some peculiarity of diet or habits to 
account for their longevity ; we find some were living 
amongst all the luxuries life could afford, others in the 
most abject poverty — begging their bread ; some were 
samples of symmetry and physique, others cripples ; 
some drank large quantities of water, others little ; 
some were total abstainers from alcoholic drinks, others 
drunkards; some smoked tobacco, others did not; 
some lived entirely on vegetables_, others to a great 
extent on animal foods ; some led active lives, others 
sedentary ; some worked with their brain, others with 
their hands ; some ate only one meal a day, others four 
or five ; some few ate large quanities of food, others a 
small amount ; in fact we notice great divergence both 
in habits and diet, but in those cases where we have 
been able to obtain a reliable account of the diet, we 
find one great cause which accounts for the majority of 
cases of longevity, moderation in the quantity of food. 

To illustrate this we append a few authenticated 
cases from Easton, Hufeland, Bailey, and other authors. 

Judith Bannister, of Cowes, Isle of Wight, died in 
1754, aged 108. 

" She lived upon biscuit and apples, with milk and 
water, the last sixty years of her life.''^ 



CAN WE PROLONG LIFE ? 



105 



Arm. Maynard, of FincMey, died in 1756, aged 112. 

^' She lived with moderation^ and took mnch ex- 
ercise/' 

John Michaelstone (grandson of Thomas Parr), died 
in 1763, aged 127. 

'^ He lived to the above great age by e?dreme temper' 
ance." 

Owen Carollan, of Diileck, connty Meath, died in 
1764, aged 127. 

"By temperance and hard labonr he attained so 
great an age." 

Janet Anderson, of Newington, Middlesex, died in 
1764, aged 102. 

'* Her life was regular and moderate.'* 

Elizabeth Macpherson, lived in the county of Caith- 
ness, died in 1765, aged 117. 

" Her diet was huttermilh and greens ; she retained 
all her senses till within three months of her death." 

Mr. Dobson, of Hatfield, farmer, died in 1766, aged 
139. 

" By much exercise and temperate living he preserved 
the inestimable blessing of health." 

Francis Confit, of Burythorpe, near Malton, York- 
shire, died in 1767, aged 150. 

^' He was very temperate in his living, and used great 
exercise, which, together with occasionally eating a raw 
egg, enabled him to attain such extraordiDary age." 

Catherine Noon alias Noony, lived near the city of 
Tuam, in Ireland, died ihe same year, aged 136. 

" Was very temperate at her meals. Her husband 
died aged 128." 



106 CAN WE PROLONG LIFE ? 

Philip Loutier, of Shoreditcli, London, a French 
barber, died at 105. 

" He drank nothing but water,, and ate only once a 
day:' 

Donald McGregor, a'farmer in the Isle of Skye, died 
at 117. 

^' lie was temperate at his meals, and took much 
exercise/' 

Mrs. Boyce, of Guildford, Surrey, died in 1771, 
aged 107. 

'^ By temperance she acquired constant health." 

Paul Barral, of Nice, a priest, died in 1 771, aged 106. 

^'^ He continued in good health by living on vege- 
tables." 

Mrs. Keithe, of Newnham, Gloucestershire, died in 
1772, aged 133. 

" She lived moderately, and retained her senses till 
within fourteen days of her death." 

Mrs. Clum, lived near Lichfield, Staffordshire, died 
in 1773, aged 138. 

'^By frequent exercise and temperate living she- 
attained so great longevity .... she resided in the 
same house 103 years." 

Mary Eogers, of Penzance, Cornwall, died in 1779,. 
aged 118. 

'' Lived the last sixty years on vegetables.'' 

Fluellyn Price, of Glamorgan, died the same year,, 
aged 101. 

" Possessed a great flow of spirits, attended with 
sound health and activity, which blessings were the- 
result of his abstemious manner of living. Herb teas- 



CAN WE PROLONa LIFE ? 107 

were liis breakfast, meat plainly dressed his dinner, 
and instead of a supper lie refreshed himself with smok- 
ing a pipe of tobacco/' 

Joseph Ekins, of Combe, Berks, labourer, died in 
1780, aged 103. 

" Never suffered a week's illness, and for the last 
forty years subsisted entirely on bread, milk and vege- 
tables.'' 

Henry Grosvenor, of Inch, county Wexford, a gentle- 
man of French extraction, surveyor of the coast of 
Blackwater, died in 1780, aged 115. 

" He was very sparing in his diet, and used much 
exercise, and was an agreeable, cheerful companion at 
one hundred, when he married his last wife/' 

Yal. Coleby, of Preston, near Hull, died in 1782, 
aged 116. 

'' His diet for twenty years was milk and biscuit." 

Edward Drinker, of Philadelphia, died in 1782, 
aged 103. 

" He lived on very solid food, drank tea in the after- 
noon, but ate no supper.'' 

Alexander Mackintosh, of Marseilles, died at 112. 

" For the last ten years he lived entirely on vege- 
tables, and enjoyed a good state of health till within 
two days of his death." 

James Le Measurer, of St. Jean Pied de Port, in 

Navarre, died in 1784, aged 118. 

'^ His common food for some years was vegetables." 
Lewis Morgan, of Llwringtdod, Radnorshire, died 

at 101. 



108 CAN WE PROLONG LIFE ? 

^' His deatli was occasioned by a fall ... lie lived 
chiefly on vegetable diet'' 

Mr. Smith, of Dolver, Montgomeryshire, farmer, died 
in 1785, aged 103. 

'^ He was never known to drink anything but hutter- 
milh.'' 

Cardinal de Salis, Archbishop of Seville, died the 
same year, aged 125. 

He himself observed : '^ I led a sober, studious, but 
not a lazy or sedentary life. My diet was sjparing, 
though delicate ; my liquors the best wines of Xeres 
and La Mancha, of which I never exceeded a pint at 
any meal, except in cold weather, when I allowed my- 
self one-third more.^^ 

Margaret McCarthy, of Cork, died in 1789, aged 103. 

^^ She lived abstemiously, and was very regular at 
her meals.'' 

Anne Bannerman died the same year at Aberdeen, 
aged 105.' 

" She latterly subsisted on vegetables and small 
beverage." 

John Ursulak, a silk-weaver, of Limburg, Prussia, 
died in 1812, aged 116. 

'^ He was of temijerate and sober habits." 

John Wilson, of Worlingworth, Sussex, died in 
1782, aged 116. 

" For the last forty years of his life his suppers were 
almost uniformely made out of roasted turnips; to 
which vegetables, thus prepared, he always ascribed 
peculiar sanitary virtues." 

Bernard le Borier de Fontanelle, of Eouen, France, 




CAN WE PROLONG LIFE ? 109 

died in 1757_, aged 100. He was a man of great 
talent, was Dean of the French Academy, Fellow of 
the Eojal Society of London and of the Eoyal Academy 
of Berlin. 

'' Till upwards of ninety he does not appear to have 
experienced any of the maladies usually attendant upon 
old age. After this time he was subject to a periodical 
attack of fever in the spring, when he used to say, *" If 
I can only hold out till strawberries come in I shall get 
well.^ He always attributed his longevity to a good 
course of strawberry eating every season." 

Petratsch Zartan died in 1724, aged 185 years. He 
was born in 1537, at Kofroek, a village three miles 
from Temeswaer, in Hungary, where he lived 180 
years. 

'*■ Being a member of the Greek Church, the old man 
was a strict observer of the numerous fasts established 
by its ritual, and was at all times very abstemious in his: 
diet, save that once a day, with the milk and leaven 
cakes which constituted his sole food, he took a good- 
sized glass of brandy." 

Galen, a physician of Pergamus, died about a.d. 270, 
aged 140. 

He himself informs us that he always ate and drank 
sparingly, irrespective of his appetite, and although of 
delicate constitution, he attributed his longevity to his 
temperance. 

Henry Hastings, Esq., second son of the Earl of 
Huntingdon, died in 1650, aged 100. 

He was an original character, a great sportsman, 
and ^^ never failed to eat oysters both at dinner and 
supper." 



110 CAN WE PEOLONG LIFE ? 

Marie Mallet,, of Thenezay, France, died in 1845, 
aged 115. 

*' She was always very ahstemious in her habits/^ 

"William Mead, M.D. (possibly grandfather of the 
celebrated Dr. Mead), died at Ware, Herts, in 165ll, 
aged 148. 

" He was distinguished for his great temperance and 
Tegular habits of life.^^ 

Mary Meigan, of Donaghmore, Ireland, died in 1813, 
aged 129. 

'^ During the last thirty years o£ her life she lived 
apparently in the greatest penury and distress, scarcely 
affording herself the means necessary for the Txceping 
together of soul and hody" She, however, saved £1600. 

Mr. R. Bowman, of Irthrington, near Carlisle, died 
in 1823, aged 118. 

Bailey says : ^' He never used tea or coffee ; his 
principal diet was bread, potatoes, hasty pudding, 
broth, and occasionally a little flesh meat. He scarcely 
ever tasted ale or spirits ; his principal beverage was 
water, or milk and water mixed. It is right, however, 
to state that this extreme ahstemionsness in all proba- 
bility, arose as much from the desire to accumulate 
money as from the love of temperance.'^ 

Mrs. Barnett, widow, of Edgeworth Town, Ireland, 
died in 1809, aged 116. 

'^ In her habits of diet she was always very tem- 
perate." 

Bridget Devine, of Alean Street, Manchester, died 
in 1845, aged 147. 

Her husband was a handloom weaver, and died 



CAN WE PROLONG LIFE ? Ill 

about twenty years before lier. They were very poor, 
and after ber busband^s decease she was supported 
chiefly from t\iQ parochial funds. 

Epbraim Pratt was living at Shaftesbury, U.S., 
in 1803, aged 116. 

The Eev. T. Dwight states that this man was born at 
Sudbury, Mass., in 1687, and that throughout his life 
he had been very temperate, both in diet and habits. 
His general drink was cider; he was accustomed to 
take animal food, but in less quantity than most 
persons around him. Milk was also a common article 
of his diet. 

The Hon. Mrs. Watkins, of Glamorganshire, died 
in 1790, aged 110. 

" She was remarkable for regularity and moderation. 
For the last thirty years she subsisted entirely on 
potatoes.^^ 

Jonathan Hartop, of the village of Aldborough, near 
Boroughbridge, Yorkshire, died in 1790, aged 138. 

" lie ate hut little, and his only beverage was milk.'' 

Rebecca Joseph, of Malpas, near Newport, Mon- 
mouth, died the same year, aged 100. 

" She lived a very temperate life. Her chief suste- 
nance for the last two years was brown sugar and cold 
water.'' 

Palcal Seria, died at Valentia, in 1791, aged 111. 

^^ He subsisted towards the latter part cf his life 
principally on vegetables, and frequently smoked to- 
bacco." 

Anne Froste, of AVest Raisin, Lincolnshire, died 
in 1722, aged 111. 



112 CAN WE PEOLONG LIFE ? 

"Married her last husband in her ninety-third year. 
. . . For many years past she had lived on millc and 
tea diet.'' 

Mr. Sherwood, of Stokesley,, in Cleveland, died 
in 1794, aged 105. 

" By using much exercise, and by temperate living, 
he enjoyed an unusual share of good health/'' 

Mrs. Thomson, lived near Dublin, died in 1796, 
aged 135. 

''^ She was very active; and by a regidar mode of 
living, together with much exercise, attained so groat 
age/' 

A labourer, named Stender, died in 1792, in the 
Duchy of Holstein, aged 103. 

" His food, for the most part, was nothing but oat- 
meal and Imttermill'/' 

Baron Baravicio de Capellis, died in 1770, at Meran, 
in Tyrol, aged 104. 

"His usual food was eggs; he never tasted boiled 
flesh ; sometimes he ate a little roasted, but always in 
ve7'y small quantity ; and he drank abundance of tea 
with rosa-solis, and sugar-candy.^^ 

Charles Macklin, of James Street, Covent Garden, 
an eminent dramatic writer, and comedian of Covent 
Garden Theatre, the veteran father of the stage, died 
in 1797, aged 107. In the former part of his life he 
lived intemperately ; subsequent thereto, he deter- 
mined to proceed by rule, which he scrupulously ob- 
served. 

^ He ivas moderate at Ms meals, and eat fish, 
flesh, etc., till the age of seventy; when finding tea 



CAN WE PROLONG LIFE ? 113 

did not agree with him^ lie substituted milk^ witli a 
little bread boiled in it, sweetened v/itb brown sugar. 
. . . For tbe last forty years, bis principal beverage 
was white wine and water, pretty sweet . . . He 
strictly observed the dictates of nature, ate when 
hungry, drank when thirsty, and slept when sleepy/^ 
— Vide Memoirs of his life. 

In the following cases, moderation and temperance 
may have been practised in diet, but not in alcoholic 
■drinks and tobacco : 

Daniel Bull McCarthy, lived in the county of Kerry, 
Ireland, died in 1752, aged 111. 

" For the last seventy years, when in company, he 
drank plentifully of mm and brandy j which he called 
naked truth, and if, in compliance with solicitations, he 
drank claret or punch, he always drank an equal 
glass of rum or brandy, which he called a wedge/' 

Thomas Whittington, of Hellingdon, Middlesex, 
died in 1804, aged 104. 

'^ Actually never took any other liquids, as liquids, 
into his stomach than ardent spirit — London gin; of 
which compound, until within a fortnight of his death, 
he took from a pint to a pint and a half daily.''^ 

Geo. Kirton, Esq., of Oxnop Hall, Yorkshire, died 
in 1764, aged 125. 

He was a great foxhunter, and ^' no man, till within 
ten years of his death, made more free with the 
bottle.^' 

Philip Laroque, of Frie, in Gascouy, butcher, died 
in 1766, aged 102. 

8 



114 CAN WE PEOLONG LIFE? 

^^Was drunk regularly twice a week till lie was 
100 years old." 

William Thompson, of Nortli Keyme_, Lincolnsliire, 
lived to 108. 

" He smoked two pipes, and drank some ale, on the 
day of his death." 

William Riddell, of Selkirk, in Scotland, died in 
1718, aged 116. 

This man was '' remarkable for his love of brandy, 
which he drank in very large quantities. ... He was 
not a drunkard (habitual), but he had frequent pa- 
roxysms of drinking, which continued several succes- 
sive days. For the last two years of his life, his chief 
subsistence was a little bread infused in spirits and ale." 

Pascal Seria, of Yalentia, died at 111. 
'^ Frequently smoked tobacco." 

Eichard Brown, of Peterchurch, Hereford, died in 
1794, aged 108. 

^' In the instance of this old man, the assertion that 
smoking tobacco is prejudicial to- health is completely 
refuted, as he was seldom seen without a pipe in his 
mouth, and took his last whiff a few hours before his 
death." 

John Saunders, of Stratford, died in 1798, aged 106. 

'' He would walk to the Old Castle House, to drink 
a cup of ale and smoke his pipe.^' 

John de la Somet, of Virginia, died in 1767, 
aged 130. 

" He was a great smoker of tobacco, which, agree- 
ing with his constitution, may not improbably be 



[ 



CAN WE PEOLONG LIFE ? 115 

reckoned tlie cause of his uninterrupted health and 
longevity." 

Joseph Creole, died in Caledonia, a little town of 
Wisconsin, on Jan. 27, 1866, aged 142. 
'^ He was an inveterate smoker.^^ 

We do not advise either drinking or smoking, as a 
means of prolonging life; but still there is a philosophy 
noticed in the cases before us. Both drinking and 
smoking take away the appetite ; less food is eaten, 
therefore a less amount of earthy salts are taken into 
the system, and the cause of old age is delayed in its 
results ; still sufficient food is taken to support life, 
and great age follows. 

Total abstainers must not forget that alcohol is 
formed in their own bodies, and, as Dr. Richardson 
says, '' No man can be, in the strict scientific sense, a 
non-alcoholic, inasmuch as, ' will he, nill he,^ he brews 
in his own economy a ^ wee drap.' It is an innocent 
brew, certainly j but it is brewed, and the most ardent 
abstainer must excuse it. The fault, if it be one, 
rests with nature, who, according to our poor esti- 
mates, is no more faultless than the rest of her sex." 

Alcohol in excess is injurious to health, especially to 
the mental capabilities — the reasons of which will be 
entered upon hereafter. But there is no evidence to 
show that alcohol in moderation, and judiciously used, 
is detrimental to health. 

Tobacco affects the brain, the heart, circulation, and 
temperature. In excess it is therefore injurious. To- 
bacco is, to a certain extent, a disinfectant : it mitigates 
the pangs of hunger, and soothes depression. How 

8—2 



116 CAN WE PROLONG LIFE ? 

often it calms the temper ! How many cross words 
are prevented in domestic life by the moderate use of 
tobacco ! 

Amongst other instances of longevity we have the 
A.ncient Britons, whom Plutarch states ^^ only began to 
grotv old at 120 years/^ 

" They were remarkable for their fine athletic form_, 
for the great strength of their body, and for being 
swift of foot. They excelled in running, wrestling, 
climbing, and all kinds of bodily exercise ; they were 
patient of pain, toil, and suffering of various kinds ; 
were accustomed to fatigue, to bear hunger, cold, and 
all manner of hardships. They could run into mo- 
rasses up to their necks, and live there for days with- 
out eating.^-' — Heney. 

Boadicea, Queen of the Ancient Britons, in a speech 
to her army, when about to engage the degenerate 
Romans, said: "The great advantage we have over 
them is, that they cannot, like us, bear hunger, thirst, 
heat or cold ; they must have fine bread, wine, and 
warm houses ; to us every herb and root are food, 
every juice is our oil, and every stream of water our 
wine.''' 

"Their arms, legs, and thighs were always left 
naked, and for the most part were painted blue. 
Their food consisted almost exclusively of acorns^ berries, 
and water J^ — Goldsmith. 

From the above, we may justly infer that the An- 
cient Britons lived on a diet which contained com- 
paratively a small amount of earthy salts ; further, the 
acorn contains tanno-gallate of potash, which would 
harden the albuminous and gelatinous structures : they 



CAN WE PROLONG LIFE ? 117 

would therefore be less liable to waste and decay. 
Their endurance of hunger^ cold, and hardships^, 
and their love of water (probably from a hardened 
state of the skin), cannot be considered as mere 
fables. 

Louisa Truxo, a negress, was stated to be living in 
June, 1780, at Cordova, in the Tucuman, South 
America, aged 175. 

The council of the city took every means to verify 
the authenticity of this statement : 

" On examination of the woman, it appeared that 
she perfectly remembered having seen the prelate 
Fernando Truxo, her first master, who died in the 
year 1614; and that a year before his death he gave 
her J together with other property, towards a fund for 
founding the university of that place. As no registers 
of baptism existed so long back, care was taken to 
collect every circumstance that could be brought for- 
ward in corroboration of the woman^s statements. 
One of these proofs was the deposition of another 
female negro, named Manuela, who was known to 
be 120 years old, and she declared that, when she was 
quite a child, she remembered that Louisa Truxo was 
then an elderly woman." 

Thomas Carn, according to the parish register of 
the church of St. Leonard, Shoreditch, died Jan- 
uary 28, 1588, aged 207 years. 

He is stated " to have been born in the reign of 
Eichard II., a.d. 1381, and lived in the reigns of 
twelve kings and queens of England.''^ 

The Petersburg Gazette published, in 1812, an in- 



118 CAN WE PROLONG LIFE ? 

stance o£ a man, in the diocese of Ekateriuoslau, 
having attained an age of more than 200 years. 

Spotswood, Archbishop of St. Andrews, says that 
Saint Mungo always slept on the bare ground, and 
attained the extraordinary age of 185 years. 

Mr. Evans, of Spital Street, Spitalfields, died in 
1780, aged 139, in complete possession of all his facul- 
ties. He well remembered the execution of Charles I., 
being seven years old at the time. Bailey, writing in 
1855, says : '^^ What a wonderful link does such a life 
form between the present and the past ! There are, 
no doubt, numbers of persons still alive, at this time, 
who can well remember this remarkable old man. So 
that even the young men of this generation may be 
acquainted with individuals who knew the man who 
possibly witnessed an event which, at the present day^ 
appears one of remote history.^' 

" In the year 1566, a native of Bengal, named Numa 
de Cugna, died at the age of 370 years. He was a 
person of great simplicity, and quite illiterate, but of 
so extensive a memory that he was a kind of living 
chronicle, relating distinctly what had happened with 
his knowledge in the compass of his very long life, 
together with all the circumstances attending it.^' — 
Maffeus' " History of the Indies ;" and confirmed by 
Ferdinand Costequedo, Historiographer Eoyal of 
Portugal. 

Thomas Parr, a native of Shropshire, died in 1635, 
aged 152. He married at the age of eighty-eight, 
*' seeming no older than many at forty.^' 

He was brought to London by Thomas, then Earl of 



CAN WE PEOLONG LIFE ? 119 

Arundel, to see Charles I, ^''wlierL lie fed high, drank 
plentifully of wines, by which, his body was overcharged, 
Ms lungs obstructed, and the habit of the whole body 
quite disordered ; in consequence, there could not but 
be speedy dissolution. If he had not changed his 
diet, he might have lived many years longer/' — 
Easton. 

On his body being opened by Dr. Harvey, it was 
found to be in a most perfect state. The heart was 
thick, fibrous, and fat; his cartilages were not even 
ossified, as is the case in all old people,^' and the only 
cause to which death could be attributed was a " mere 
plethora, brought on by more luxurious living in 
London than he had been accustomed to in his native 
country, where his food was plain and homely.'^ 

In a poem by John Taylor, on '^ the old, old, very 
old man,'' the following outline of his diet is given : 

'' He was of old Pythagoras' opinion, 
That green cheese was most wholesome with an onion, 
Coarse meslin bread, and for his daily swig, 
Milk, huttermilk^ and water, tvhey, and whig. 
Sometimes methegUn, and for fortune happy, 
He sometimes supped a cup of ale most nappy." 

He was married a second time at the age of a hundred 
and twenty-one, and could run in foot-races and per- 
form the ordinary work of an agricultural labourer 
Tvhen 145 years old. 

Henry Jenkins, of Ellerton, in Yorkshire, died in 
1670, aged 169. 

He remembered the battle of Flodden Field, in 1513, 
at which time he was twelve years of age. The regis- 
ters of the Chancery and other courts prove that ha 



120 CAN WE PROLONG LIFE ? 

gave evidence, and liad an oatli administered to him,. 
140 years before his death. 

In the '^Philosophical Transactions^^ of 1696, Sir 
Tancred Eobinson states : " This Henry Jenkins, in the 
last century of his life, was a fisherman." 

When ninety years of age, a child was born to him, 
and, when 160, he walked to London to have an audi- 
ence with Charles II., and was able to swim across 
rapid rivers after he was 100. " His diet was coarse 
and sour" 

Mrs. Clayton, of Springhead, died in 1867, aged 107 
years. 

" She was born in January, 1760. . . . Her health 
was uniformly good ; she generally rose at six in the 
morning, and retired at nine in the evening, and walked 
often to Gravesend, a distance of three miles, without 
apparent fatigue." 

Miguel Solis, of Bogota, San Salvador, now living, 
and whose age is supposed to be at least 180. At a 
congress of physicians, held at Bogota, Dr. Louis 
Hernandez read a report of his visit to this locally 
famous man, a country publican and farmer. 

"We are told that he only confesses to this age 
(180 years) j but his neighbours, w^ho must be better 
able to judge, affirm that he is considerabl}^ older than 
he says. He is a half-bred, named Miguel Solis, and 
his existence is testified to by Dr. Hernandez, who was 
assured that when one of the ' oldest inhabitants ' was 
a child, this man was recognised as a centenarian. 
His signature, in 1712, is said to have been discovered 
among those of persons who assisted in the construe- 



CAN WE PROLONG LIFE ? 



121 



tion of a cerfain convent (Franciscan convent,, at San 
Sebastian). Dr. Hernandez found this wonderful 
individual working in his garden. His skin was like 
parchment, his hair as white as snow, and covering his 
head like a turban. He attributed his long life to his 
careful habits ; eating only once a day, for half an hour, 
because he believed that more food than could be eaten 
in half an hour could not be digested in twenty-four 
hours. He had been accustomed to fast on the first 
and fifteenth of every month, drinking', on those days, 
as much icater as possible. He chose the most nourish- 
ing foods, and took all things cold.^^ — Lancet, Sept. 
7th, 1878. 

From this and other sources we gather the following 
habits of this man : 

1. He eats but once a day, and only for half an 
hour. 

2. He eats meat but twice a month ; from which we 
may justly infer that he is to a certain extent abste- 
mious in his daily meal. 

3. He drinks large quantities of water. 

4. He fasts two whole days every month. 

From these habits it follows that, compared with the 
majority of mankind, he eats little, yet enough to sup- 
port life ; he therefore takes into his system a small 
amount of earthy compounds, which therefore take a 
longer period to accumulate, and produce the symp- 
toms of decrepitude and old age at a far later period 
than they occur in most individuals who live upon an 
ordinary quantity of food, whose bodies become rigid, 
decrepit, and ossified, we will say, at about ''^ three- 
score years and ten.^^ Further, that his drinking large 



122 CAN WE PEOLONG LIFE ? 

quantities of water, whicli, if not unusually hard,, will 
tend to dissolve and remove those earthy compounds, 
wHcli are not the effect but the cause of old age. We 
have not thought it necessary to make further inquiries 
concerning the diet and habits of this man. Our in- 
formation is derived from numerous periodicals, and we 
only arrive at the above conclusions because we are 
convinced, from ascertained facts and experiments, 
that man may by diet alone attain the age which Miguel 
Solis is supposed to be. 

Besides longevity, we notice in nature a power of 
restoration, which will be seen from the following 
cases : 

Philip Laroque, to whom we have before referred — 
" At the age of ninety-two, cut four large teeth." 

A Mr. Mazarella, of Vienna, died in 1774, aged 105. 

" A few months before his death he had several new 
teeth ; and his hair, grown grey by age, became hlach, 
its original colour.^'' 

Kuma de Cugna, the Bengalese ter centenarian 
before referred to — 

'^ 'H.ad four new. sets of teeth ; and the colour of his 
hair and beard had been frequently changed black to 
grey, and from grey to black.^^ 

Lord Bacon says the Countess of Desmond, who 
lived to 148, renewed her teeth once or twice. 

Mary How, of Mapleton, Derby, died in 1751, from 
the effects of a fall from an apple-tree, aged 112. 

''Two years before her death she cut several new 
teethj and her hair changed its colour." 



CAN WE PROLONG LIFE ? 123 

Lady Angelique Domenqieux de Sempe, of Noniliac, 
in France, died in 1759, aged 103. 

She '' had several new teeth when near ninety years 
•of age/' 

Susan Edmonds, of Winterbourne, Hants, died in 
1780, aged 104 

" Five years before her death she had new hair, of a 
fine brown colour, which began to turn grey a few 
months before her death/' 

Sarah Williams, of Brent Torr, near Tavistock, 
died in 1809, aged 108. 

" When in about her hundredth year, she cut five 
new teeth.'' 

Elizabeth Spencer, widow, died in 1806, aged 105. 

" For many years she was entirely deprived of sight ; 
but about her one hundredth year she recovered the use 
-of her eyes J which continued with her till the close of 
her life." 

Janet Allan, of Kilmarnock, Ayrshire, died in 1788, 
aged 105 years. 

*' Four years before her death, her sight, which for 
long had been dim, in a great measure returned, so 
that she could see much better than had been the case 
for a number of years.'" 

Owen Duffy, of Monaghan county, Ireland. 

The Dublin Freeman of July 29, 1854, stated that 
this individual was then alive, aged 122 years. Having 
lost his second wife when he was 116, he married a 
third, a young woman, by whom he had a son and a 
daughter. At this time his youngest son was two years 
old, whilst his eldest was ninety. 



124 CAN WE PROLONG LIFE ? 

Mrs. Jane Lewson, widow, of No. 12, Coldbath. 
Square, London, died in 1816, aged 116. 

She was left in affluent circumstances. Her apart- 
ments were never washed, her windows never cleaned, 
and she never practised ablutions of any kind what- 
ever, for fear of taking cold. She ^^ cut two new teeth 
at the age of eighty- seven.'' ^ 

Margaret Melvil, of Kettle, Fifesliire, died in 1783,. 
aged 117. 

" She renewed several teeth at a hundred years of 
age." 

Marion Gibson, of Galston, died at 100. 

^^ When she was a,bout ninety years of age, she had 
a new set of teeth.'' 

Eebecca Poney, of the Poor-house, Korton Folgate, 
lived to 106. 

^' She cut two new teeth at the age of 102.-'^ 

John "Weeks, of New London, Connecticut, died at 
114. 

When he was 106, he married a girl of sixteen, at 
which time " his grey hairs had fallen off, which were- 
renewed by a darlv head of hair ; and several new teeth 
made their appearance.^' 

John Eousey, Esq., of the island of Distrey, in Scot- 
land, died in 1738, aged 137. 

" He had a son at one hundred years of age, who 
inherited his estate." 

John Riva, of Venice, died at 116. 

"He always chewed citron-bark, and had a child 
after he was 100." 

Margaret Krasiona, of the village of Koninia, in 



CAN WE PEOLONG LIFE ? 



125 



Poland. When ninety-four years of age, slie married 
her third husband_, who was then 105. 

^^ They lived together fourteen years, and had two 
boys and one girl. This is certified in the parish 
registers of the village of Ciwousin, district of Sten- 
sick, in the palatine of Sendomir.''' 

Thomas Parr, when 102 years old, had a child by 
Catharine Milton, for which he did penance. 

Dr. Stare states that his grandfather, a native of 
Bedfordshire, and who died in his hundredth year, ^'at 
the age of eighty-five had a comj^lete set of new teeth; 
and his ha{i% from being of a snowy white, gradually 
became darlierJ' — "Philosophical Transactions,^' vol. 
xxiii. 

''^A magistrate named Bauborg, who lived at 
Rechingen, in the Palatinate, and who died in 1791, 
in the hundred and twentieth year of his age. Tn 
1787, long after he had lost all his teeth, eight new 
ones grew iqo. At the end of six months they again 
dropped out, but their place was supplied by other 
new ones, both in the upper and the lower jaw; and 
nature, unwearied, continued this labour four years, 
and even till within a month of his death. After he 
had employed his new teeth for some time with great 
convenience in chewing his food, they took their leave, 
and new ones immediately sprung up in some of their 
sockets. All these teeth he acquired and lost without 
any pain ; and the whole number of them amounted at 
least to fifty."*' — Hupeland. 

" The Auxilia Breton mentions a curious circum- 
stance. It states that a gendarme named Labe, of the 



126 CAN WE PROLONG LIFE ? 

Department of tlie Ilcuet Yalaire^ who had a grey 
beard and hair^ presented himself a few days ago per- 
fectly black ! He said he had had a determination of 
blood to the head, which caused his head to swell and 
become blacky as did also his beard and hair and part 
of his body. He had felt great pain for a time^ but 
that afterwards he found himself much better; that 
then his skin resumed its natural colour, but that the 
hair and beard remained blacli. Two comrades of the 
gendarme, one of them a corporal, confirmed his state- 
ments/' — Morning Advertiser. 

A patient of the author's, sixty-one years of age, 
living in First Street, Chelsea, cut three new teeth in 
the present year. 

^^ By an inscription on a tombstone at Breslau, it 
appears that one John Montanus, who was a dean there, 
recovered three times the colour of his hair . . . Does it 
therefore appear incredible or impossible that man may 
occasionally after his ' three score years and ten,' again 
exhibit the powers and physical qualities of youth ?" 

A few years ago the Times gave an account of a 
lady more than eighty years of age, who cut her third 
set of teethj and whose features were said to have the 
juvenescence of thirty years. 

The above-mentioned cases are but a few of many 
which have been collected. We cannot therefore consider 
such changes impossible ; nature has repeatedly accom- 
plished them, apparently by accident ; but what nature 
accomplishes apparently by accident, may become a 
possibility, if we are able to discover the laws and prin- 
ciples which govern such changes, and if we are 
further able to apply them and regulate their action. 



I 



CAN WE PROLONG LIFE ? 127 

In the animal kingdom we find numerous cases o£ 
longevity : the first we notice is in reptiles, wMcli are 
cold-blooded, witli sliglit powers of respiration, and 
whose internal and external consumption is therefore 
much less than in warm-blooded animals. They are 
very tenacious of life, and most of them have a power 
of reproducing and restoring destroyed organs ; thus 
earthworms restore themselves after being cut with a 
spade ; the head and horns of a snail will grow again 
in six months; the limbs and tail of a water-newt 
are replaced in a few months, and even if its eye 
is destroyed, another is perfected in about ten 
months. 

'^ A toad was found at Organ, in France, in a well 
which had been covered up for 150 years. It was 
torpid, but revived on being exposed. Many well- 
authenticated cases are recorded of toads found alive in 
old stones and in old trees, where they must have lived 
for many centuries.^^ — Sje Richaed Phillips. 

The '' Transactions of the Swedish Academy" give an 
account of a toad found in 1733 in a stone quarry, 
seven ells deep in the middle of a hard block of stone, 
and which was extricated with much labour by hammer 
and chisel, and was alive, though very weak. Its skin 
is described as being shrivelled, ^' covered here and 
there with a stony crust." 

'^ The testudo or tortoise is so long-lived that two are 
recorded in England who lived 120 and 200 years . . . 
In the library of Lambeth Palace is the shell of a 
tortoise, brought there in 1623. It lived till 1730, and 
was then accidentally killed. Another in the palace at 
Fulham, procured by Bishop Laud in 1628, died in 



128 CAN WE PEOLONG LIFE ? 

1763. One at Peterborough lived 220 years.'' — Sir 
E. Phillips. 

The crocodile and alligator^ which many travellers 
assert increase in size as long* as they exist; from what 
is at present knowD^ seem to live to very great ages. 

Serpents live to almost incredible ages, and many 
believe they never die from ^^ natural causes." 

'*" When it (the serpent) is old, by squeezing itself 
between two rocks, it can strip off its old skin, and so 
grows young again.'' — Calmet's **^ Dictionary.'' 

" Snakes, frogs, lizards, etc., cast their skin every 
year; and it appears that this method of becomiug 
again young contributes very much to their support 
and duration." — Hufeland. 

Many reptiles cast their skins; this is especially 
noticed in snakes. In casting its skin a large quantity 
of gelatinous and earthy matter, which by their ac- 
cumulation have gradually given rise to the character- 
istics of " old age," is thrown off ; the animal is relieved 
of them, and becomes in the full sense of the term 
young again. 

Crabs and lobsters undergo a rejuvenescence in 
casting their shells annually ; and for about four days 
they are naked and defenceless. Their size increases 
only when in this soft state ; their mail, which contains 
a large quantity of earthy matter, soon prevents further 
expansion until it is cast off, when the animal is again 
allowed to increase in size. 

In fishes many instances of extraordinary longevity 
are recorded, which is especially marked in those of 
slow growth. 

'^ Carp grow but two or three inches per annum, and 



CAN WE PEOLONG LIFE : 



129 



live to a great age ; some in the lake at Fontainebleau 
being two or three hundred years old. . . . Whales 
live many centuries/^ — " Million of Facts/^ 

'' We know from the ancient Roman history, that in 
the imperial fish-ponds there were several lampreys 
(mursenas) which had attained to their sixtieth year ; 
and which had at length become so well acquainted 
and familiar with man, that Grassus, orator , unam ex illis 
defleverit.''* — Hufeland. 

'^ The pike, a dry, exceedingly voracious animal, and 
carp also, according to undeniable testimony, prolong 
their life to 150 years. The salmon grows rapidly and 
dies soon. On the other hand, the perch, the growth 
•of which is slower, preserves its existence longer.'^ — 
Ibid. 

" Gesner says that the longevity of the pike is almost 
incredible ; he mentions as an instance one that was 
taken in Hailborn, in Swabia, in the year 1497, with 
these words engraven on a ring : ' I am the fish that 
was first of all put into this lake by Frederick Second, 
Oct. 5th, 1230.' This gave it the age of two hundred 
and sixty-seven years.'' — Rhind's ^^ Six Days of Cre- 
ation." 

" Some species of fish and certain snakes are said to 
live till some accident puts an end to their indefinite 
term of life.'' — Southey. 

In birds a renovation is noticed in the process of 
moulting, during which the old feathers are cast off, 
and with them fibrinous, gelatinous and earthy sub- 
stances, and new feathers are acquired, which, by their 

"^ That Crassus, the orator, shed tears for one of them when 
it died. 

9 



130 CAN WE PROLONG LIFE ? 

growtli remove certain quantities of these so^id sub- 
stances from tLe system. 

Many cases of longevity are recorded in birds, espe- 
cially those whidi live on fruits, fish and other animal 
foods. 

It is affirmed that some of the parrot species live in 
their natural state to *^ ages ranging from five to seven 
hundred years." 

^' One has instances of its living sixty years a 
prisoner with man, and how old may it not have been 
when it was caug-ht V 

" The swan lives 200 years ;" some authorities even 
prolong this to 300. 

^' Some time ago, a male swan, which had seen many 
generations come and go, and witnessed the other 
mutations incidental to the lapse of 200 years, died at 
Eosemount. He was brought to Dunn when the late 
John Erskine, Esq., was in his infancy, and was then 
said to be 100 years old. About two years ago he was 
purchased by the late David Duncan, Esq., of Rose- 
mount, and within that period his mate brought him 
forth four young ones, which he destroyed as soon as 
they took the water. Mr. Mallison Bridget (in whose- 
museum the bird is now to be seen) thinks it might 
have lived much longer but for a lump or excrescence 
at the top of the windpipe, which, on dissecting him, ho 
found to be composed of grass and tow. This is the 
same bird that was known and recognised in the early 
years of octogenarians in this and the neighbouring- 
parishes by the name of the ^ Old Swan of Dunn.' '' — 
Medical Gazette. 

In 1782 '^Farmer Pope, of Beaminster, Dorset, had 



CAN Yv'E PROLONG LIFE ? 



131 



a goose eighty-six years old, wliicli had been on the 
farm with four successive tenants/^ 

The raven, rook, crow, hawk, seagull, pelican, heron, 
crane, and other birds of a similar nature, are believed 
to live beyond a hundred years. 

Tacitus says the eagle lives to 500 years, and there 
are instances of its having lived in confinement more 
than 100, and one died at Vienna aged 104. 

'' A gentleman at London a few years ago received 
from the Cape of Good Hope one (a falcon) that had 
been caught with a golden collar, on which was inscribed 
in English, ^ His Majesty K. James of England. An. 
1610." It had therefore been at liberty 182 years from 
the time of its escape. How old was it when it 
escaped ? It was of the largest species of these 
birds, and possessed still no little strength and spirit ; 
but it was remarked that its eyes were blind and dim, 
and that the feathers of its neck had become white.-'^ — 

HUFELAND. 

In the mammalia the elephant perhaps attains the 
greatest age. 

^^ They grow for thirty or forty years, and live 200 
or 300 ; some say 400 years. ■'^ 

An elephant called Hannibal died in 1859, in a 
travelling circus in America. '^ He was extremely old. 
We have heard his age stated variously at from 500 
to 1000 years."* 

After Alexander the Great had vanquished Porus, 
King of India, he took a large elephant which had fought 
valiantly in battle for the king, and called him Ajax, 



Keynolds' •' Miscellany." 



9—2 



132 CAN WE PEOLONG LIFE ? 

dedicating him to the sun, and setting him free with 
the following inscription : 

*^*^ Alexander, the son of Jupiter, hath dedicated 
Ajax to the sun/^ 

This elephant was found 350 years afterwards with 
the inscription. 

Speaking of the longevity of the elephant, Thomson 
says : 

" With gentle might endued, 
Though powerful, yet not destructive ; here he sees 
Revolving ages sweep the changeful earth, 
And empires rise and fall ; regardless he 
Of what the never-resting race of man project." 

Elephants ^^ live on vegetables,^' and in their natural 
state are very fond of the young and tender shoots and 
leaves of trees ; their diet is therefore one adapted to 
longevity. Moreover, the tusk or tooth '' weighs from 
120 to 200 lbs.," and one hundred parts contain twenty- 
four of gelatine and sixty-four of carbonate of lime; 
the tusks therefore relieve the system of an elephant 
of from nearly 80 to 128 lbs. of lime ; these are further- 
more casty being found in the woods of Afo-ica and 
Ceylon, but how often and at how long a period is as 
yet undetermined. 

The wild hog lives chiefly on roots, and is said to live 
in its native state '^ to the age of 300 years.'"' 

A ^^ lion lived seventy years in the Tower ;" we may 
therefore justly infer, that in its natural state it lives 
beyond a century. 

The camel '^ generally attains the age of fifty, and 
sometimes of 100 years." " It eats Utile and drinks 
less." 



tmMa LIFE ? 133 

'^ They require little and coarse food, and live for ten 
or fifteen days witliout water. ■'^ 

The horse in his wild state lives to upwards of fifty 
years ; but when brought to subjugation by the severity 
of man, he seldom attains half this age. 

It is a well-known fact that when a horse does little 
work, and passes the greater part of his days — espe- 
cially the early ones — in his pasture, he lives to nearly 
forty years ; but when a horse is hard worked and the 
process of transpiration thereby increased, and is 
moreover fed upon beans, oats, and other '^ ossifying'^ 
foods, his days are much shorter; few in fact reach 
twenty years, and even ^' Eclipse," a race-horse which 
for speed is said to have never been defeated, with all 
the attention man could bestow, died at twenty-five 
years. 

This faithful servant of man soon becomes pre- 
maturely old from the diet on which he is fed, in fact 
his food contains so much earthy matter that con- 
cretions (hippolithi) of phosphates of lime, magnesia, 
and ammonium, in the CEecum are of very common 
occurrence; the deposition of earthy salts in the system 
is also accelerated by hard work, which increases the 
process of transpiration. 

From the above few cases of the ages of reptiles, 
birds, and animals, which we have selected as illus- 
trations, it is clear that those of them which attain the 
greatest longevity in animated nature are those which 
are subject to or possessed of one or more of the 
following peculiarities or qualities : 

1. Those which are only slightly susceptible to the 
action of atmospheric oxygen. 



134 



2. Those wMcb. are possessed of a restorative power, 
or are enabled to throw off from the system fibrinous, 
gelatinous, and earthy matter, and the more perfect 
this renovation, the greater the duration of life. 

3. Those which subsist upon food which contains a 
small quanity of earthy compounds. 

4. Those which eat but little or seldom. 

In the vegetable kingdom are numerous instances of 
longevity. 

" A lime in the Grisons is fifty-one feet round and 
about 600 years old.^^ 

'^ A dragon^ s-blood tree inTeneriffe was forty-eight 
feet round and 1000 years old.^^ 

" The ciihheer hurr, near Baroach, has 350 main 
trunks and 3000 small ones. It is believed to be 3000 
years old.-'^ 

One specimen of the African haohah was estimated 
by its circles to be 5700 years old by Adanson and 
Humboldt. 

Adanson found some of these trees only six feet in 
diameter with the names of seafaring men who visited 
them in the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries, cut on 
them, and with the incisions little extended. 

There is a cypress in Mexico 120 feet round, which 
De Canolle considers older than Adanson^s baohab. 

The yew attains great age, those '^at Fountain's 
Abbey are about 1200 years old •/' one '^at Crowhurst 
1500 '/' one at Fortingal above 2000 years ; and one at 
Braburn the age of which is stated to be from 2500 to 
3000 years. 

'*■ A chestnut in Gloucestershire is 900, and one at 
Saucerre 600 years." 



CAN WE PROLONG LIFE ? 135 

" Terebintli-trees, tlie El-Elali of the Bible, live 1500 
or 2000 years, but neglect has rendered them scarce in 
Syria/'' 

A chestnut was planted in 800 at Tamworth ; it was 
a boundary called the "Great Chestnut-tree" in the 
reign of Stephen, in 1135, and "in 1759 it bore nuts, 
which produced young trees ;" it was stated to be 
fifty-two feet round. 

" Two orange-trees at Rome, planted by St. Domi- 
nick and Thomas Aquinas, are from 500 to 600 years 
old." 

An apple-tree was stated to be in existence in 1820 
at Woolstrope, " from which Newton saw an apple fall 
in 1665." 

Ivys have been recorded which have lived five hun- 
dred years, and the elm, larch, and other trees are 
stated to live the same or even a longer period. 

The oak is slow of growth and reaches a great age. 
De Canolle states that there are oaks in France 1500 
years old. The Wallace oak, near Paisley, is more 
than 700 years old. 

" Some olives, near Jerusalem, are 800 years old." 

Throughout the animal and vegetable kingdoms, 
with a few exceptions, which would be too lengthy to 
enter upon in the present work, a similar cause of 
natural death is observed to that which we have traced 
to man ; and even the stately and venerable oak, which 
inspires us with reverence and awe when we contem- 
plate that the tree we gaze upon perhaps once shaded 
our wild ancestors and the Druids, only dies because 
the central and oldest parts of the wood gradually 
acquire such compactness, hardness, and want of 



136 CAN WE PEOLONG LIFE ? 

porosity, tliat it becomes incapable of imbibing or 
receiving further nourishment ; a process analogous 
to " induration ^^ and '^'^ ossification'^ in man and 
animals. 



CHAPTER Y. 

AGENTS BEST ADAPTED FOR A LENGTHENED PROLONGATION 
OP EXISTENCE. 

By the term agents best adapted to prolong life we 
mean those substances or compounds which, by their 
action in or upon the system, tend to check the cause of 
''old age,-*' and ^^ natural death,'' and which tend to 
prevent or even remove the accumulations which we 
have already shown are not the effect, but the cause of 
the changes which are observed as age advances, either 
by preventing the excessive action of atmospheric 
oxygen, or by removing earthy compounds, which have 
accumulated to an extent more than is requisite to 
supply the wants of the system, or those substances 
which combine the two actions. 

To commence with solvents, or those agents which 
tend to prevent the accumulation of earthy matter in 
the system, the first we notice is icater. 

When water is decomposed by electricity, the hydro- 
gen at the negative pole is double the volume of the 
oxygen at the positive pole; water, therefore, is com- 
posed in bulk of one volume of oxygen and two volumes 
of hydrogen; but oxygen being sixteen times as heavy 



• CAN WE PROLONG LIFE ? 137 

as liydrogen, eiglit parts of oxygen by weight unite 
with one part of hydrogen to form water. We may 
justly term water an oxide of hydrogen. 

Water exists in nature in three forms ; in the solid 
as ice, in the liquid as water, and in the gaseous as 
steam. The greater part of the water existing in 
nature is undergoing a slow but constant process of 
distillation, condension, and redistillation ; it rises from 
the evaporation of the waters of the earth in the form 
of steam, to become clouds ; these again condense and 
fall as rain, sleet, snow, or hail. 

Rain-water is the purest form of water occurring in 
nature ; however, even during its fall to the surface of 
the earth it acquires impurities from the air, but 
directly it touches the land it falls upon it dissolves 
some of the materials with which it comes in contact, 
and becomes still more impure. Most salts are more 
or less soluble in water, which is the most general 
solvent of chemical substances in nature ; rain-water 
thus dissolves and combines with portions of the soluble 
constituents from the strata through which it per- 
colates, and becomes spring- water or river- water, and 
ultimately passes into the sea, to again take part in 
this vast process of distillation. The solid matter in 
solution in water is deposited when the water is evapo- 
rated ; in order to obtain pure water it is therefore 
necessary to distil it, that is, to boil it, and collect the 
water produced by the condensation of the steam. 

So great are the solvent properties of distilled water, 
that when water is distilled in glass or earthenware 
vessels, it dissolves small quantities of substance of the 
vessel in which it is condensed j and if retorts be so 



138 CAN WE PROLONG LIFE ? 

arranged tliat distillation and redistillation from one 
vessel to tlie otlier may be carried on, and further, 
if tliis process is often repeated, a sediment will be 
found at the bottom of eacli vessel. The sediment 
formed part of the vessels in whicli the process was 
carried on, was dissolved by the water on its conden- 
sation, and was deposited when it evaporated; and the 
oftener the distillation is repeated, the greater is the 
deposit. 

This fact led many of the Grecian philosophers to 
refer all things to water, for they conceived that solid 
matter originated even from distilled water. In fact 
that all solid matter was at one time in aqueous solu- 
tion. 

The process of boiling spring- water, or river-water, 
precipitates part of the solid matters it contains, espe- 
cially those salts which are held in solution by an excess 
of carbonic acid (if carbonates be present). 

Most drinking waters contain lime to a greater or a 
less extent, in some form or other, generally as car- 
bonate, or sulphate ; and those waters which contain 
lime to any extent should be avoided for drinking 
purposes. The alkaline salts contained in many waters 
do not accumulate in the system ; they are therefore 
not injurious, but many of them are beneficial. 

There are many recorded cases of longevity which 
may be distinctly traced to drinking large quantities 
of water. 

The Seres, expressly called Macrohii, or the ancient 
Chinese, lived to extraordinary ages, and Lucian 
ascribes their longevity to their " drinking water in 
great abundance." 



CAN WE PKOLONG LIFE f 



139 



The idea which was held centuries ago^ that dew * 
water collected from the mountains, and used as a 
drink, would prolong lifo, is a very correct one ; it is a 
distilled water of nature, and whether it is charged 
with electricity or not, is very invigorating. 

Distilled water, used as a drink, is absorbed directly 
into the blood, the solvent properties of which it in- 
creases to an extent that it will keep salts already 
existing in the blood in solution, prevent their undue 
deposition in the various organs and structures, and 
favour their elimination by the different ed'cretce. If 
the same be taken in large quantities, or if it be the 
only liquid taken into the system, either as a drink or 
^s a medium for the ordinary decoctions of tea, coffee, 
etc., it will in time tend to remove those earthy com- 
pounds which have accumulated in the system, the 
^effects of which usually become more manifest as the 
^ge of forty or tifty years is attained. 

The daily use of distilled water facilitates the re- 
moval of deleterious compounds from the body by 
means of the excretae, and therefore tends to the pro- 
longation of existence. 

The use of distilled water may be especially recom- 
mended after the age of thirty-five or forty years is 
attained; it will of itself prevent many diseases to 
which mankind is especially subject to after this age ; 
and were it generally used, gravel, stone in the bladder, 
and other diseases due to the formation of calculi in 
different parts of the system, would be much more 
uncommon. 

* Dew is the condensation of aqueous vapour by a body which 
has radiated its atomic motion of heat below the temperature 
of the surrounding atmosphere. 



140 CAN WE PKOLONG LIEE ? 

Yessels^ or retorts, used for the distillation of water 
for drinking purposes,, should be made of iron, not of 
glass or earthenware. 

Lactic acid is produced by natural or artificial fer- 
mentation from milk, or other animal matter containing^ 
lactose, or milk-sugar. In a pure state it is a syrupy 
liquid^ transparent^ and inodorous, , soluble in water,, 
alcohol, and ether. When distilled, it decomposes,, 
unless atmospheric air be excluded^ when it may be 
distilled unchanged. 

Milk holds in solution cheese or caseine, the solu- 
bility of which is dependent upon the presence of 
alkaline phosphates , and free alkalies, and not upon 
earthy salts. The neutralisation of the alkali by an 
acid causes the cheese to separate. Fermentation may 
be naturally or artificially communicated to the milk- 
sugar, which is present in the milk, the elements of 
which are transposed into lactic acid, which neutralises 
the alkali and causes the caseine to separate. 

The caseine, or cheese-curd, contains nearly all the 
phosphate of lime and earthy matter, but only part of 
the alkaline phosphates of the milk ; but the liquid, or 
whey, contains the remaining alkaline phosphates, lac- 
tates, and the lactic acid. 

Buttermilk is milk deprived of its butter, or oily 
part, the milk-sugar of which has been more or less 
converted into lactic acid. It appears to be generally 
given to pigs^ but formerly it was largely used as an 
article of human consumption, and it has many good 
points which recommend it as a food for invalids, and 
as a dietetic article for more general use. 

Lactic acid forms a definite series of salts with the 



CAN WE PROLONG LIFE ? 



141 



alkaline and earthy bases, and has a great tendency to 
prevent the undue accumulation of earthy matter in 
the system. There are also many instances of extra- 
ordinary longevity, which may be traced solely to lactic 
acid contained in whey, or buttermilk, used as a con- 
tinued article of diet, several instances of which we 
have given in the preceding chapter. 

Amongst other solvents we have the mineral acids, 
sulphuric, nitric, hydrochloric, and phosphoric. With 
the exception of the latter (phosphoric acid), the 
mineral acids, in large buantities, are foreign to the 
system, and their continued use is injurious. The 
action of phosphoric acid will be entered into when we 
consider phosphorus. 

Amongst those substances which prevent the exces- 
sive action uf atmospheric oxygen, or the waste of the 
system, we first notice tannin, which has the power of 
tanning, hardening, and rendering the albuminous 
gelatinous structures of the body more leather-like in 
character, and less liable to decay. 

Tannic and gallic acids alone are objectionable, and 
their continued use produces dyspepsia. Their com- 
bination with an alkali to a certain extent removes this 
objection, and they exist in nature, combined with 
potash J in the walnut, acorn, etc., the action of which 
we have already noticed when speaking of the longevity 
and diet of the ancient Britons. 

Potash alum, a combination of sulphate of alumina 
and sulphate of potash, has a similar astringent action 
if taken in small doses. This remark does not apply 
to the ammonia alum which is generally used in the 
present day on account of its cheapness ; sulphate of 



142 CAN WE PEOLONG LIFE ? 

ammonia, wMcli is largely produced in our gas-works, 
is here substituted for the sulphate of potash of the 
potash alum. 

Fresh brewers^ yeast has a great affinity for oxygen, 
and would undoubtedly prevent undue oxidation or 
waste of the tissues. Within the last few years it has 
been employed medicinally, with good effect, in many 
diseases which are characterised by excessive oxida- 
tion. 

The alkalies, j^otnsh and soda, have the property of 
increasing the solubility of albumen and fibrin. The 
continued use of soda is depressing. The best prepa- 
ration of the alkalies for this purpose is the liquor 
potassse, in small doses of five or ten drops largely 
diluted with water. It acts also as an antacid and 
antilithic ; but its continued use renders the fluids and 
urine so alkaline, that deposits of earthy phosphates 
may possibly result from this alkalinity; but this 
deposit, which is chiefly noticeable in the urine, is 
dependent solely upon diet — or the quantity of earthy 
phosphates taken into the system as food, and is to a 
great extent preventible by the conjoined use of the 
vegetable acids, and entirely by phosphoric acid, as a 
citrate, tartrate, or phosphate. Phosphoric acid under- 
goes no alteration in passing through the system, and 
is therefore traceable to the secretions and excretions. 
But vegetable acids are not found in either ; they are, 
as it were, burnt up in the system, and resolved into 
carbonic acid and water. This action lowers the tem- 
perature of the body and increases the fluidity of the 
blood, and this is the reason that the vegetable acids 
act so beneficially in many forms of fever, and not 



CAN WE PROLONG LIFE ? 143 

because they neutralise ammonia,, whicli is found in 
excess in tlie blood in most fevers, and whicli neutrali- 
sation, did it exist, could only last for a short period. 

The vegetable acids, either alone or combined with 
alkalies as they exist in fruits, or artificially prepared, 
as before stated, tend to prolong life — firstly, by de- 
creasing the temperature of the body, therefore the 
waste of the system ; secondly, on the combustion of 
the acid, the alkali being left free, the solubility of 
albumen and fibrin existing in both the blood and the 
tissues is increased, there is a lessened tendency to 
their deposit — to the formation of fibrinous and gela- 
tinous accumulations in the system. 

Amongst the agents which combine the two actions, 
the only one we can recommend is loliospliorus, because 
it is a substance not foreign to the system. When phos- 
phorus is in a free state, owing to its great affinity for 
oxygen it unites with it in the system, thereby decreas- 
ing the waste, decomposition, or oxidation of the body, 
and forms acids vvhich prevent the accumulation of 
earthy compounds, and facilitate their elimination from 
the system. 

Phosphorus, owing to its great affinity for oxygen, 
does not occur free in nature, except in the most highly 
organised structures of animals and a few plants ; apart 
from these, it exists only in a state of combination 
always with oxygen, and with an alkaline or earthy 
base, generally as phosphate of lime, which is found 
largely in mountains in Spain and other parts of the 
world. Phosphate of lime is the principal constituent 
of apatite, phosjohorite, coprolites, etc., and exists in 
most structures throughout the animal and vegetable 



144 CAN WE PEOLONG LIFE ? 

kingdoms ; and, in conjunction witli other earthy 
compounds,, plays a great part in causing tlieir death 
by its accumulation. 

In the animal kingdom it is taken into the system in 
the articles of diet derived generally from vegetables ; 
and, in the vegetable kingdom, by imbibition or ab- 
sorption from the earth. 

Phosphorus was accidentally discovered by Brandt, 
of Hamburg, in 1669; but Scheele obtained it from 
bones, and examined its properties, in 1769. It is 
generally prepared from powdered bone -ash, or phos- 
phate of lime, by adding to it about two-thirds of its 
weight of sulphuric acid and about sixteen parts of 
water. By this means the bone-ash is decomposed ; 
the sulphuric acid unites with part of the lime, forming 
sulphate of lime, which is insoluble and precipitates, 
whilst the greater part of the phosphorus is left in 
combination with oxygen, hydrogen, and the remaining 
lime forming superphosphate of lime which remains in 
solution. This solution is then evaporated to the con- 
sistence of a syrup, and mixed with charcoal ; it is 
then placed in earthenware retorts, the necks of which, 
to prevent the admission of atmospheric oxygen, are 
placed under water. It is then heated to redness, 
when carbonic acid gas is liberated, and about half the 
phosphorus distils over and falls as yellowish drops to 
the bottom of the water, whilst the other half remains 
in the retorts, in combination with the lime, as a pyro- 
phosphate. 

The phosphorus thus prepared is generally purified 
by redistillation, and by pressing it through leather 
under hot water; but the phosphorus thus purified 



CAN WE PROLONG LIFE ? 145 

generally contains so many impurities tliat it is unfit 
for medicinal use. The chief impurity is arsenic, but 
bismuth, copper, and cobalt are often found in what is 
known as '^ commercial '' phosphorus. For internal 
use it therefore requires further purification. When 
phosphorus has been passed through leather, boil- 
ing in liquor ^potassca will readily remove the arsenic, 
forming a liquor arsenicaUs. It should then be mixed 
with vegetable charcoal, redistilled, and allowed to fall 
into lime-water. It should then be washed, or well 
agitated, in liquor ammonice fortis. What slight im- 
purities may now be present, will readily be removed 
by adding a mixture composed of equal parts of char- 
coal and carbonate of iron, making this into a paste 
and redistilling, when irregular masses of pure phos- 
phorus are obtained. 

Phosphorus readily oxidises, and slight friction, or 
sometimes the heat of the hand, will cause its ignition. 
It unites with oxygen in four proportions, forming 
oxide of phosphorus, hypophosphorous acid, phos- 
phorous acid, and phosphoric acid. 

^*'When phosphorus is kept for a time near its 
boiling-point, air being excluded, it undergoes a true 
coagulation, and, at the same time, a change in its most 
striking properties.^^ — Liebig. 

If common phosphorus be exposed to a temperature 
between 464° and 482° F., for some hours, atmospheric 
air being excluded, or in an atmosphere such as 
hydrogen or carbonic acid, which will not act chemi- 
cally on it, it becomes a solid dark red and opaque 
substance^ exactly equal in weight to the common 

10 



146 CAN WE PROLONG LIFE ? 

phospliorus nsed^ but differinsf greatly from it in 
properties. This is wliat is called amorphous 'phos- 
phorus. 

The ordinary phosphorus is easily fusible, very in- 
flammable in contact with air, is luminous in the dark, 
is readily oxidised, and slowly passes in the air into a 
deliquescent acid ; whilst the altered, red, or amorphous 
phosphorus is not inflammable, and does not take fire 
until sufficient heat is used to reconvert it into the 
ordinary form ; it is not luminous, and is not changed 
in moist air. 

Bisulphuret of carbon dissolves common phosphorus 
in all proportions, but the altered phosphorus is in- 
soluble in it. 

Common phosphorus has distinct actions upon the 
animal system, and, in excess, is very poisonous ; the 
same quantity of the altered phosphorus is inert, and 
has no action whatever on the body. 

At a low red heat, the altered or amorphous phos- 
phorus is reconverted into the ordinary form. 

'^Now, what is the cause of these transformations in 
the properties of this element ? What is the myste- 
rious part played here by heat ? We can explain 
difference of properties in two compounds of the same 
composition, by a difference in the arrangement of 
their atoms ; and this view in many cases is unques- 
tionably correct. But how is it with phosphorus, 
which we must regard as an elementary body ? Is 
phosphorus, perhaps, really a compound ? These re- 
markable phenomena are as yet obviously unex- 
plained ; but they open up to us a world of new ideas." 

— LlEBIG. 



CAN WE PROLONG LIFE ? 



147 



Phosphorus in the air gives off white fumes^ which 
are luminous in the dark : these fumes are due to 
combustion or oxidation ; but phosphorus is luminous 
m vacuo, and the more complete the vacuum_, the 
greater is the luminosity. Here oxygen plays no 
part — phosphorus is luminous j^er se ; its luminosity, 
therefore, is not necessarily due to oxidation. 

If albumen or white of egg be kept for a time at 
its boiling-point, it coagulates; a something (a vitality ?) 
imperceptible, imponderable, and not necessarily 
chemical, has gone — it is eliminated by the heat, and 
the character and properties of the albumen are 
changed. This something, or a something analogous, 
may be given back to it either by animal digestion, or 
artificially by chemical means, when its former pro- 
perties are restored, and it becomes again true or fluid 
albumen coagulable by heat. 

When phosphorus is kept for some hours at its 
boiling-point, ^^it undergoes a true coagulation;" a 
^omething^ imperceptible and imponderable has gone. 



* A similar instance is seen in the diamond, although "when 
heated strongly in a medium incapable of acting chemically 
Tipon it, the diamond swells up, and is converted into a black 
mass resembling coke," and also, when burnt in oxygen, car- 
bonic acid alone is formed— showing it to consist of pure carbon. 
The diamond is not pure carbon alone, for a something im- 
ponderable is driven off by heat, and pure carbon is left exactly 
the same in weight as the diamond ; we have, therefore, dis- 
covered the means of eliminating this something from the dia- 
mond, but we have not as yet been able to replace it, or to 
unite carbon aud this imponderable something. When this is 
discovered, we shall be enabled to make diamonds artificially : 
and were a man to make this end his object, we see nothing to 

10—2 



148 CAN WE PEOLOXQ LIFE ? 

The weight is exactly the same ; but the continued 
heat has eliminated a something , and the properties of 
the phosphorus are changed. A higher temperature 
gives back this something, and the phosphorus again 
assumes its former characters. But as phosphorus on 
its combustion gives oif electricity, we may justly 
infer that this something which is eliminated is elec- 
tricity. Again, as phosphorus is luminous in a 
vacuum, totally independent of oxidation, it would be 
neither theoretical nor speculative to say that we need 
not regard phosphorus as an elementary body, but 
that it is really a compound, of which light in the 
abstract form and electricity are important con- 
stituents. 

The light in this case is light _2?er se — it does not 
originate in heat — the motion of the radiation of atoms ;, 
nor does it arise from combustion or any combination 
of gases. It is luminous when removed from all 
chemical action. 

It has been shown in the present century that light 
is an originator of motion ; this is instanced in the 
little instrument invented by Mr. Crooke, which rotates 
under the influence of the sun^s rays, and the more 
intense the light, the greater the rapidity of the 
motion. This instrument is constructed for the pur- 
pose, and instances the action of light upon dead 
matter ; what, therefore, may be the influence of light 
upon living matter ! 

prevent his success. Its discoverer would perhaps be struck 
with amazement, but he might also be amused at its sim- 
plicity. 



r-E PROLONG LIFE 



149 



Phosphorus exists in tlie most higlily developed 
organs or structures of man and animals. 

*' The brain and other nerve-centres contain a sub- 
stance termed protagon, of which phosphorus forms an 
essential constituent. It crystallises in microscopic 
needles, and is very easily decomposed. Amongst 
the products of decomposition of protagon are glycerine, 
phosphoric acid, and several fatty acids, and an am- 
monium base called neurine" — RoscoE. 

Now, certain proportions of phosphorus exist in the 
brain in a free or unoxidised form, and within the last 
few years we see it stated that the protagon of the 
brain and nervous system contains its phosphorus as 
a hypophosphite. This error may easily be accounted 
for from the fact that protagon readily decomposes, 
and the phosphorus combioing with oxygen would 
be found as a hypophosphite, or even as a phosphate 
or as phosphoric acid, if the brain were not in a 
fresh state. However, difference of opinion is not 
needed on this point, as a very simple experiment will 
decide the question. 

If we take a fresh brain (either human or animal), 
and immerse it in either absolute alcohol, sulphuric 
ether, or olive oil, we obtain a luminous solution of 
phosphorus; a phosphate is not luminous, a hypo- 
phosphite is not luminous, free phosphorus is luminous. 
The brain, therefore, contains free or unoxidised 
phosphorus. 

We naturally inquire for what purpose phosphorus 
exists in this form, in the largest quantity, in structures 
of the highest orgauisation — as, for instance, the brain, 
which, as an established physiological fact, presides 



150 CAN WE PROLONG LIFE ? 

over every thouglit and action of our material 
bodies. 

The first cause of thought is not organic, it has a 
higher origin, the nature of which we are as yet un- 
acquainted with ; and as Hufeland, a philosophic 
physician, said a century ago, ^^The first cause of 
thought is spiritual ; but the business of thinhing itself, 
as carried on in this mortal machine, is organic." 

Now, the brain contains cells, some larger than 
others, and variously shaped. The brain also contains 
fibres, some of which are tubular, and have a covering 
membrane, and some of which have not, called respec- 
tively tubular and gelatinous fibres. Some of tlieee 
fibres are joined to and issue from the cells ; this is 
undoubtedly the case with some of the caudate or 
larger cells which have tail-like processes, some of 
which "become continuous, with an ordinary nerve 
fibre.''^ This is not always the case, nor is it neces- 
sary to have direct continuity. Contact is all we re- 
quire ; and most, if not all, the fibres of the brain are 
in contact with cells. Here in the brain, spinal 
marrow, and nerves, we see a most perfect telegraphic 
apparatus — nature's design, and which is distributed 
by means of the nerves and "their subdivisions — arbo- 
rescent ramifications to every part of the body, and 
which we may compare to a set of telegraph wires. 

During thought, mental exertion, worry, remorse, 
or hard study, phosphates are largely increased in the 
excretoe ; and as the brain is the centre of these 
thoughts and ideas, we may justly infer that this in- 
crease of phosphates is due to oxidation or loss of 
phosphorus from the brain — that the first effect of 



CAN WE PROLONG LIFE ? 



151 



thouglit is to cause oxidatiou of phosphorus during 
the *^ business of thinhing itself/^ 

NoWj it is a chemico-physiological fact that the brain 
contains phosphorus. 

It is a chemical fact that on the oxidation or burn- 
ing up of phosphorus in the atmosphere an electric 
charge is given off. 

It is a demonstrable fact that on passing a current 
of electricity along the course of one or more nerves 
of an animal body, spasmodic actions, muscular con- 
tractions, are the result. 

It is, therefore, clear that phosphorus plays a more 
important action in the animal economy than has 
heretofore been supposed; and that thought, the 
mind itself, many nervous actions with which the 
mind has no connection, and volition and common 
sensation, are intimately connected with the presence 
of phosphorus in the cerebro-spinal axis. 

As an instance of this, we may ask : What is 
motion caused by will ? A man puts forth his hand 
to reach a certain object. Phosphorus is oxidised in 
the brain in cells, which either communicate, or are in 
contact with nerve fibres, and the electric'^ current 

* In the study of an eminent philosopher, named De Luc, a 
suspended ball was kept in regular pulsation for years by means 
of successive accumulations of electricity from a dry pile, the 
discharges being carried off by the ball. Phosphorus must of 
necessity be gradually oxidised in the cerebro-spinal axis, even 
in sleep ; electricity must develop, and when it has reached a 
certain tension, must be discharged along the nerves which 
supply the heart, and thus cause its pulsation, and the resulting 
circulation of the blood. A similar conclusion was arrived at 
by Sir John Hersehel, also by Dr. Arnott ; but neither of them 
showed a source of the required electrical power. 



152 CAN WE PROLONG LirE ? 

caused by the oxidation of pliospliorus in tlie brain 
passes down these fibres (on exactly the same prin- 
ciple as the telegraph wire) to the arm or hand, con- 
tractions of muscles in the limb result — the action he 
willed is completed. 

'^ Every thought, every sensation is accompanied by 
a change in the composition of the substance of the 
brain/^ — Liebig. 

"According to careful estimates, three hours of 
hard study wear out the body more than a w^hole day 
of hard physical exertion. ' Without phosphorus, no 
thought,'' is a German saying; and the consumption 
of that essential ingredient of the brain increases in 
proportion to the amount of labour which this organ 
is required to perform. The wear and tear of the 
brain are easily measured by careful examination of 
the salts of the liquid excretions. ^^ — Boston Journal of 
Chemistry. 

The importance of the brain is again verified by 
the fact that although it only weighs, on an average, 
one- fortieth of the weight of the body, one-fifth of the 
blood goes to supply this organ. Now does the brain, 
as is generally believed, derive its supply of phos- 
phorus from earthy or alkaline phosphates taken into 
the system in the articles of diet ? Is there any action 
existing in the body w^hich has the power to de-oxidise 
phosphates and extract free phosphorus ? 

" The mean temperature of man is 98° 6' ;" and the 
only means we have at present of artificially preparing 
phosphorus from phosphates is by detaching the 
oxygen by charcoal at a red heat, a temperature which 
could not exist in any living organism ; nor is there 



CAN WE PROLONG LIFE ? 



153 



any electric action in tlie body of sufficient force for 
this purpose. 

" Light separates tlie moisture in plants into its con- 
stituent hydrogen and oxygen, and it disengages the 
oxygen from the carbonic acid, so as to deposit the 
carbon in union with hydrogen — as gum, resin, and 
oil, which forms their ligneous parts. Consolidation 
and vigour depend on light/' 

^' The retention of oxygen, for want of light, renders 
plants white. . . . Solar light is the agent by which 
the carbonic acid in gas is decomposed.^' 

" The life of every created being is the more perTect 
the more it enjoys the influence of light. Let a plant 
or an animal be deprived of light, notwithstanding 
every nourishment, care, and cultivation, it will first 
lose its colour, then its strength, and at last entirely 
decay. Even man, who passes his life in darkness, 
becomes pale, relaxed, and heavy, and at length loses 
the whole energy of life ; as is proved by the many 
melancholy instances of persons shut up in gloomy 
dungeons.''^ 

In darkness there is no expansion of organised life, 
except at the expense of putrefaction and decomposi- 
tion, resulting only in the production of vegetation of 
the most imperfect kind ; apart from this, no form of 
life is generated of a higher order — nothing feels, 
nothing breathes. 

" The phosj^horic light seen in the ocean is caused 
by innumerable quantities of phosphoric insects {nocti- 
luca miliaria), and is sometimes so "intense as to make 
the waves appear like red-hot balls.^' 

*' Owen describes cylindrical flexible mollusca, in 



154 CAN WE PEOLONG LIFE ? 

the sea rear Benguela, a foot long^ and two inclies in 
diameter, wticli, agitated, become vividly luminous.'' 

Fire-flies are very common in Mexico and South. 
America, and a similar species is found in Africa; 
they ^' shine by so strong a phosjphoric light that a 
person may read by the light of three of them." 

Some of these insects have three luminous patches, 
one on each side of the head, and one on the under 
part of the body. The light continues /o?* some time 
after the fly is dead. The light of the glow-worm is 
too well -known to need description. The light is only 
emitted when they are in motion, and it arises from 
the two last rings of the abdomen. " Their remains 
are phosphorescent." 

''The great American bittern has the power of 
emitting a light from its breast equal to the light of a 
torch." 

" Luminosity has been noticed chiefly in fungi. A 
species of agaric, in Western Australia, is said to 
afford a phosphorescent light of sufficient intensity to 
read by. Decaying wood, called touchwood, caused by 
the mycelium of fungi, is often phosphorescent ; and 
in Brazil certain mushrooms give out a light like that 
of fire-flies." 

The snail, millepedes, and other insects are distinctly 
luminous in the dark, as are the mackerel, herring, 
and many other fish. 

Yon Humboldt, speaking of the medusce found in 
sea water, says : " They observed, after it became 
dark, that none of the three species of medusae which 
they had collected emitted light unless they were 
slightly shaken. When a very irritable individual is 



CAN WE PROLONG LIFE ? 155 

placed on a tin plate^ and the latter is struck with, a 
piece of metal, the vibrations of the tin are sufficient 
to make the animal shine. Sometimes, on galvanising 
medusae, the phosphorescence appears at the moment 
when the chain closes, although the exciters are not in 
direct contact with the body of the subject. The 
fingers J after touching it, remain luminous for two or 
three minutes. "Wood, on being rubbed with a me- 
dusa, becomes luminous, and after the phosphorescence 
has ceased it may be rehindled by passing the dry 
hand over it J' Again, '^ On their return to the latter 
of these (Gaurabo), the travellers were much struck by 
the prodigious number of phosphorescent insects which 
illuminated the grass and foliage. These insects 
(elater noctilucus) are occasionally used for a lamp, 
being placed in a calabash perforated with holes ; and 
a young woman at Trinidad informed them that, 
during a long passage from the mainland, she always 
had recourse to this light when she gave her child the 
breast at night, the captain not allowing any other on 
board for fear of pirates. ^^ 

We have ourselves seen the grass shrubs and under- 
wood of forests brightly illuminated and glittering 
with luminous insects; and the waves of the ocean 
brilliant with vivid fire from the light emitted by 
species of medus£e ; and, where we have been enabled 
to procure specimens, we found that in most of them 
the light was phosphorescent ; in many cases, the 
fingers remained luminous after touching them, and 
from many we were enabled to obtain luminous solu- 
tions of phosphorus. 

Now do these numerous luminous beings of ani- 



156 CAN WE PEOLONG LIFE ? 

mated nature, botli vegetable and animal, obtain their 
pliospliorus from pliospbates ? 

As it is our desire to avoid theory or speculation 
until v/e have sufficient evidence to say positively 
"yes^^ or " no/^ we will leave the subject of the source 
of the phosphorus existing in the braiu and other 
structures of man, by asking the following ques- 
tions : 

1. Does man '^ by a chemical decomposition, the 
nature of which it is not easy to explain," extract the 
phosphorus existing in his system from phosphates 
contained in the articles of his diet ? 

2. Does he obtain it partly from phosphates, and 
partly from elsewhere ? 

3. Does he derive it solely from another source ? 
Whatever the source of the phosphorus of the brain 

may be, it is clear that it must first exist in the blood, 
and be carried by it to the brain, which we may there- 
fore compare to a gland, one purpose of which is for 
the secretion or absorption of phosphorus from the 
blood — to collect it and fix it in its own substance, for 
the purpose of taking part in some of the most im- 
portant functions and manifestations of the vital 
phenomena — both perceptible and imperceptible — in- 
cidental to, and essentially part of, that as yet incom- 
prehensible and indefinable condition which we term 
Life : the elements or the materials of which it is built 
we may eventually become thoroughly acquainted with, 
but the plan will remain obscure — the design is known 
to the Architect alone. 

Direct experiment, and many records on the chemical 
pathology of the brain, show that although phosphates 



I 



CAN WE PROLONG LIFE ? 157 

by their gradual deposition often increase in the brain, 
the quantity of oxidisable phosphorus decreases in "old 
age." 

The foregoing few remarks on phosphorus we have 
made to show the great importance of this substance 
in the animal economy — to briefly demonstrate tha 
interesting and instructive properties and manifest 
influence which it bears towards many of the observed 
and comprehensible phenomena of organic life^ in the 
hope that many of these phenomena may not long re- 
main questions or problems for futurity to solve ; and 
further to verify the statement which we made in our 
first chapter, that '^ this great vital principle, which is 
centred in the cerebro- spinal axis, gradually wanes, 
because the brain and nerves by degrees lose their 
supply of blood, their powers of selection and imbibition, 
and are deprived of their ordained nourishment, by 
means of this gradual process of induration and ossifi- 
cation/^ 

We do not state that phosphorus is itself a vital 
principle, but that it plays an important part in the 
phenomena of organic life ; and as the brain must of 
necessity derive its supply of phosphorus from the 
blood, which circulates in vessels which, as we have 
already shown, gradually indurate, ossify, and become 
lessened in calibre as age advances, so must the brain 
and nerves gradually lose their powers of selection and 
imbibition, and be deprived of their ordained nourish- 
ment — and so does the quantity of oxidisable phos- 
phorus in the brain decrease in '^ old age/' Hence 
the gradual impairment of the functions of the brain 
and nerves, and the numerous actions dependent. 



158 CAN WE PEOLONG LIFE ? 

directly or indirectly, upon these delicate and ex- 
quisitely formed organs. 

The reason that phosphorus, which, as Magendie 
Bays, '' would seem to have affected almost resurrec- 
tions," has been so little regarded, is entirely owing 
to the want of a reliable preparation. 

In the present day it is used in the form of ^' pills" 
combined with balsam of tolu, yellow wax, and similar 
vehicles; it is also used dissolved in sulphuric ether, 
chloroform, rectified alcohol, etc. ; and it is also given 
internally in solution in almond, olive, and codliver 
oils. 

If water is added to the ethereal or alcoholic solu- 
tions, the phosphorus precipitates. In the form of 
pills it is insoluble in water ; also insoluble in the blood, 
and little, if any, of the phosphorus in these prepara- 
tions is really absorbed into, and assimilated by, the 
system. Again, owing to the inflammability of phos- 
phorus in the solid form, it may produce inflammation 
and even ulceration of the stomach and bowels ; we 
may therefore unhesitatingly say, that any form of 
phosphorus where soZitZparh'cZe.*? are either present or 
are produced by the addition of water, is, to say the 
least, unreliable and uncertain in its action, and may 
be dangerous in its use. Even in solution in oil, we 
have on one occasion seen sufficient irritation produced 
to result in a disease analogous in appearance and 
characters to erysipelas.* 

^ This maybe due to the particles of oil holding phosphorus 
in solution, and incapable of further subdivision, being arrested 
in the capillaries supplying the skin. 



CAN WE PEOLONG LIFE ? 159 

It is therefore only just and correct to state that the 
preparations of phosphorus generally used are not 
satisfactory in their results. 

Thick syrup, mucilage, and several similar com- 
pounds have the property of retaining free phosphorus 
— not in mechanical, but in aqueous solution — il trans- 
mitted to them by means of a proper medium or volatile 
solvent. As an instance, if we dissolve in sulphuric 
ether as much phosphorus as the ether will take up, 
and add, we will say, from thirty to sixty drops of this 
solution to a pint of thick syrup, shake them together, 
allow the ether to evaporate, and decant the greater 
portion of tlie syrup, leaving a small quantity at the 
bottom of the vessel, which retains what solid particles 
of phosphorus may have precipitated, the upper or de- 
canted part is perfectly clear and transparent, and will 
be found to contain in aqueous — not in mechanical — 
solution sufficient phosphorus, even in doses of one or 
two drachms, to distinctly influence and increase the 
amount of phosphates in the liquid excretions. 

By using glycerine instead of the syrup, we may 
obtain even a stronger preparation than the above. 
Here we have two preparations of phosphorus in 
aqueous solution, and although they contain but a 
small proportion, it is in a form which cannot pre- 
cipitate, and which may be readily absorbed into the 
system. Small doses only are required, for the whole 
is assimilated, whereas in most of the preparations in 
which a thirty-sixth or even a twentieth part of a grain 
per dose are given, only a fraction serves its desired 
use, and the remaining portion is often passed out of 
the system unchanged. 



160 CAN WE PROLONG LIFE ? 

In the present age of rapidity and despatch, phos- 
phorus is often a deficient constituent of the brain and 
nerves. It is often wasted in the turmoil of business, 
in anxious moments pending loss or success_, in grief 
and sadness, and the acute trials arising from family 
and other bereavements ; in the mental applications 
and exertions of the scholar, to whatever section of 
science he may be attached ; in even the excessive in- 
dulgences and libations of the inebriate, who delights 
in the stimulant and unconsciously in the solvent pro- 
perties of alcohol — which in excess dissolves and re- 
moves phosphorus from his brain — hence the tremor 
and other symptoms dependent upon a deficiency of 
lierve power. 

To demonstrate the action of phosphorus upon the 
system, after its absorption into the blood, we may 
divide it into two portions. One part is carried by the 
circulation to the brain, which assimilates and fixes it 
in its own substance ; thus serving to take part in — 
even to increase — many of the mental and nervous 
phenomena of organic life. The other part is carried 
by the general circulation to every structure and organ 
of the body. During its passage it fixes and combines 
with oxygen existing in the blood, and becomes hypo- 
phosphorous, afterwards phosphoric acid. Phosphorus 
therefore combines with oxygen existing in the blood, 
and by this means prevents excessive oxidation or waste 
of the system ; again, when on its union with oxygen 
it becomes phosphoric acid, it combines with the alkaline 
and earthy bases existing in the blood, forming neutral 
salts ; and further, as the amount of phosphoric acid 
increases, parfc of the insoluble earthy compounds 



CAN WE PROLONG LIFE ? 



161 



(whicli have been gradually deposited) become super- 
pliosj)liates, which are soluble — which circulate again 
in the bloody and part of which are removed from the 
system in the liquid excretions — thus preventing the 
accumulation of earthy compounds in the system, and 
even removing those which have been already deposited. 

Phosphorus, therefore, by its great affinity for 
oxygen, prevents the undue accumulation of fibrinous 
and gelatinous substances in the system, and on its 
becoming phosphoric acid, removes the earthy matter 
which has gradually accumulated — which we have 
termed "ossification" — which is the chief cause of 
'^ old age,^' and " natural death /' thereby, in the full 
sense of the term, prolonging life for a lengthened 
jperiod ! Hypophosphites have a similar action, they fix 
oxygen from the blood, and become phosphates^ thus 
preventing undue waste of the system. 

This is the reason — and the only one — that the 
hypophosphites act so beneficially in consumption.* 
The allcaline hypophosphites only are of service for 
the purpose now under consideration. 

** As two of perhaps the latest views on consumption, it is 
stated that consumption is due to a lack of oxidisable phos- 
2)horus in the system ; again, that it is caused by mineral inani- 
tion. Now both these are characteristics of the disease. Atmo- 
spheric oxj'gen oxidises phosphorus excessively in consumption, 
there is therefore a lack of oxidisable phosphorus in the body. 
This again gives rise to an excess of phosphoric acid, which 
removes alkaline and earthy salts from the system ; we have 
therefore so-called " defective mineral nutrition." But neither 
of these are causes, they are but the results — effects — of a dis- 
tinct and demonstrable cause, as is also the formation of 
tubercle. — Vide "Consumption, a Re-investigation of its Cause," 
by the Author. 

11 



162 CAN WE PEOLONG LIFE ? 

Phosphoric acid possesses but the one action, that of 
preventing undue accumulation, and of removing" 
earthy compounds from the system, which action we 
have already considered. Therefore in the agents best 
adapted to prolong life for a lengthened jperiody we notice 
chiefly distilled water used daily as a drink ; unoxidised 
phosphorus, in syrup, glycerine, etc., in doses of one or 
two drachms, according to the strength of the solution ; 
the alhaline hypophosphites, and the dilute phosphoric 
acid (corresponding to ten per cent, by weight of the 
anhydrous acid) in doses of from ten to twenty drops,, 
well diluted with water. These preparations may be 
taken two or three times daily (according to the degree 
of ossification), as an article of diet, and not as a 
medicine. 

It would naturally be asked that, if life were pro- 
longed by means of the diet and the agents herein 
mentioned, what state of body would be the con- 
comitant of such existence ? To this we answer, that the 
cause being to a great extent suspended, the effect could 
not follow so quickly and prematurely as it otherwise 
would. For the many organs and structures could not 
so readily harden and ossify. The numerous charac- 
teristics of " old age'^ could not exist to the same 
extent ; and a state of mental and bodily juvenescence 
would be maintained for a lengthened period. 



CAN WE PKOLONG LIFE ? 1 63 

CHAPTER YI. 

CONCLUSION. 

Science dictates, and even the most casual observer, 
■who — for purpose or principle — attempts to compre- 
hend the truths and phenomena of universal Nature, 
unhesitatingly admits that " every 'phenomenon has its 
reason, every effect its cause." This is a fact established 
and indisputable ; but how often are the laws of life 
and of death doomed to be overlooked by the deluded, 
and even removed from their legitimate situation, 
which they of necessity embrace in forming volumes in 
the library of the academy of Nature ! For the sake of 
method, we classify and arrange under many heads, 
which are but servitors to avoid a chaos of observa- 
tions, descriptions and deductions ; the confusions thus 
avoided obviously present themselves, but one branch 
of science is dependent upon another — each forms a 
part, all united a whole — for Nature is one. To recog- 
nise one and ignore another portion of an entirety — 
each part of which is dependent upon unity — is to 
break a rule which remains unbroken. To say that 
everything dies simply because it has lived — that the 
age of man infixed irrespective of reason or cause — is 
not only presumption, but confessedly a want of con- 
ception, a disbelief in what is and therefore must be, 
and an assault on the fixed and immutable laws of 
natural phenomena. 

When we reflect or meditate on the progress of civi- 
lised man, we notice wonders and improvements in his 
surroundings, for his welfare and comfort ; we discover 

11—2 



164 CAN WE PROLONG LIFE ? 

a spirit of inquiry amongst men, a silent marcb. of 
thought — a steady progress, impelled forward by an 
eternal law — Nature's law — experience. This law we 
may compare to a circle ; the beginning we know not, 
the end we know not. This circle enlarges, expands — 
where is the limit ? Opposition, reproach, threats and 
violence can only be a temporary check ; they cannot 
control, abate or arrest the progress of inquiry, the 
keenness of research, the results of experience. But 
amongst the varied and expanding objects of research, 
is not that inquiry which appertains to the preservation 
of life the most important of all to humanity ? 

What is man without health, even if endowed with 
riches ! Take away the latter and their accompany- 
ing luxuries — only give him health ; this accomplished, 
the first desire is a return of the riches. But with 
both a word remains which we hate to utter, a thought 
we dread to contemplate, a thing which gives sorrow, 
pain and grief. That word, that thought, that thing 
is Death. Even in cases where life appears a burden, 
how tenaciously do men cling to it ! How the spirit 
recoils from a struggle with Death ! How fondly it 
retains its grasp of life ! Man's great desire is for 
health and long life on earth, but to this there are 
some few exceptions — the result of incidental impres- 
sions. ^' Man clings to the world as his home, and 
would fain live here for ever.'' 

*' And can we see the newly-turned earth of so 
many graves, hear the almost hourly-sounding knell 
that announces the departure of another soul from its 
bodily fabric, meet our associates clad in the garb of 
woe, hear of death after death among those whom we 



CAN WE PEOLONG LIFE ? 



165 



knew — perhaps respected, perhaps loved — without 
pausing to consider if we may not seek and haply find 
more than the mere causes, find the means of checMng 
the premature dissolution that so painfully excites the 
deepest and most hidden sympathies of our nature t" 

" The prolongation of the life of the people must 
become an essential part of family, municipal and 
national policy. Although it is right and glorious to 
incur risks and to sacrifice life for public objects, it 
has always been felt that length of days is the measure, 
and that the completion by the people of the full term 
of natural existence is the groundwork of their felicity. 
For untimely death is a great evil. What is so bitter 
as the premature death of a wife, a child, a father ? 
What dashes to the earth so many hopes, breaks so 
many auspicious enterprises, as the unnatural death ? 
The poets, as faithful interpreters of our aspirations, 
have always sung, that in the happier ages of the world 
this source of tears shall he dried up.'' — Registrar- 
General of England. 

In the present day, when we are so accustomed to 
wonders that they no longer excite our wonder ; when 
we send our thoughts almost round the world with the 
velocity of lightning ; when we hear voices miles away 
by the agency of the telephone ; the tick of a watch — 
even the tramp of a fly — by the microphone ; when we 
transcribe the vibrations of sound with the precision of 
a mathematician ; when we freeze water into ice in 
white-hot crucibles ; when we cast copper into statues 
without the aid of heat ; when it is possible to illu- 
minate cities without gas — with lamps devoid of flame 
or fire ; when some of the most precious minerals are 



166 CAN WE PROLONG LIFE? 

produced from their elements ; when we believe that 
to-morrow even the diamond may be artificially pro- 
duced ; with all these wonders recently brought to 
light for the benefit of mankind, is man himself to 
be debarred from that social progress which is daily 
manifested ? Are the achievements of science of no 
avail in benefiting his degenerated existence ? Will 
not our daily-increasing knowledge of nature and the 
behaviour of her elements eventually tend to this end ? 
In reference to which Liebig asks : ^^ Is that know- 
ledge not the philosopher's stone, which promises to 
disclose to us the laws of life, and which must jinally 
yield to us the means of curing diseases and of prolong' 
ing life ?" 

The fields of research become richer and wider with 
every new discovery, which is often as precious, if not 
more useful than gold — actually a transmutation for 
the benefit and comfort of man. But as yet he has 
himself been little benefited by science, which must of 
necessity ultimately dictate a means of curing diseases 
and of prolonging life. Is it even just, in the present 
day of so-called wisdom, to ridicule the alchemists of 
old, who diligently laboured and searched for a '*^ virgin 
earth '^ — a mysterious substance which would " change 
the baser metals to gold, and be a means of curing 
diseases, of restoring youth to the exhausted frame of 
age, and of prolonging life indefinitely '^ ? Such a 
view would be utterly unjust. For the present science 
of chemistry owes its position, its existence — perhaps 
its origin — to the untiring observations and researches 
of the alchemists, which were instilled into them in 
their laborious searches fur the " philosopher's stone/' 



CAN WE PROLONG LIFE ? 167 

All they souglit for exists, and may ultimately be found 
in tlie illimitable science of chemistry. 

Oxygen it is that by combining with the substance 
of fuel during combustion, causes the consumption of 
that fuel. Oxygen it is that by combining in a similar 
manner with the substance of the human body, chiefly 
during respiration, causes the waste of the system and 
the necessity for food. Oxygen it is that corrodes and 
eats away the solid masonry of palaces, castles, man- 
sions and churches, and eventually crumbles them to 
dust. Iron bridges, marble monuments, massive 
structures — of whatever architecture or material — must 
eventually succumb to this all- destroying agent. 

The Roman proverb runs, '*" Tempus edax rernmy' 
Time, the consumer of all things. But Time would be 
of no avail without oxygen, which is really the " edax 
rerumJ' 

Time is also credited with the changes which take 
place in the human body between youth and old age; 
but oxygen it'is which, by wasting man's tissues, neces- 
sitates his supplying himself with food, which food 
contains earthy and obstructive matter, which matter 
by accumulating in the numerous organs and structures, 
increases his density and rigidity, and by hardening 
the same produces the various characteristics, both in 
appearance and texture, of old age, and by stiffening 
his joints, that decrepitude and inactivity which, in 
conjunction with the induration and ossification of the 
numerous organs, causes the human machine gradually 
to move slower and slower, and ultimately to stop, and 
die a " natural death.'' 

Thus it is seen that oxygen, though necessary to 



168 CAN WE PROLONG LIFE ? 

support life_, is the primary cause, by necessitating food, 
of those changes which are only so many steps from 
the cradle to the grave. The paradox therefore exists, 
that even while we breathe the breath of life, we also 
inhale the " edax rerum" which only requires Time to 
bring about our destruction. 

We may therefore say that oxygen is but the primary 
cause, because it necessitates food; and that the earthy 
and obstructive matter contained in that food is the 
immediate and actual cause, inasmuch as it gradually 
gives rise to rigidity, ossification and death. 

As a jet kept free from clogging and obstructive 
matter, and supplied with pure gas, will continue to 
burn, independent of time, so the human body, sup- 
plied with food free from earthy and obstructive matter, 
will retain the flame of life. 

The beneficial effects of fruit as an article of diet, both 
in health and disease, cannot be over-rated. In health the 
apple, the pear, the grape, the strawberry, the gooseberry, 
the tomato, the fig, the date, wall-fruits, the melon, and 
numerous others, present such a field for choice that 
the most capricious appetite need never be disappointed. 
The supply of fruit in the United Kingdom is not great, 
but considerable quantities of both fresh and preserved 
fruits are imported from all parts of the world, and are 
rapidly becoming popular amongst all classes ; and it 
is to be hoped that our fellow-countrymen will gradu- 
ally become more alive to the benefits to be derived 
from a more general and frequent use of fruits as an 
article of daily food. 

^' When pain and anguish wring the brow,^' in slight 
and temporary indispositions, or during prolonged 



CAN WE PEOLONG LIFE ? 169 

febrile diseases, wliat is more refreshing and beneficial 
than tlie juice of the luscious orange ? Indeed, in many- 
parts of the world, especially in tropical regions, the 
juice of the orange taken in large quantities has been 
found to be a specific for many descriptions of fever ; 
it is in fact Nature^s remedy, and an unsurpassed one. 
Cereal and farinaceous foods form the basis of fche 
diet of so-called '^ vegetarians," who are not guided by 
any direct principle, except that they believe it is wrong 
to eat animal food. For this reason vegetarians enjoy 
no better health, and live no longer than those around 
them. Our remarks, therefore, apply to fruits as dis- 
tinct from vegetables. 

We have shown a means of partially arresting the 
never-ceasing action of atmospheric oxygen ; less food, 
therefore, would be necessary to support life. We 
have also demonstrated a means of supplying a sub- 
stance which gradually becomes deficient as age ad- 
vances, which deficiency is only due to the immediate 
and actual cause of old age — the accumulation of earthy 
matter in the system, which may also be prevented, 
and even removed, when already deposited. All these 
actions are combined in the one substance — free phos- 
phorus. 

The earthy matter may be also removed by hypo- 
phosphorous acid, by phosphoric acid, and by the daily 
use of distilled water as a drink. By these means we 
can therefore prolong life in the full sense of the term, 
for a lengthened period. 

It has been said that '^ men are more often governed 
by words and phrases than by facts and realities ;"* 
* Lord Beaconsfield. 



1 70 CAN WE PROLONG LIFE ? 

this is not always tlie case, but did a man require 
visible proof that another of the same age could pro- 
long his life even to a hundred years, by the means 
herein mentioned , that sceptic would have to devise 
another means of prolonging his own life to enable 
him to see the completion of that term of years by the 
other. 

Of all our divisions of science, perhaps the most im- 
portant of all to humanity is medicine, and as one 
branch of science is dependent upon another, so is 
medicine dependent upon physiological chemistry, and 
has to patiently await its advance. Medicine, as yet 
far from complete, is a collection of the labours of ages, 
and has for its own particular purpose a view to the 
good of mankind. 

In our numerous searches for a definition of the 
treatment of disease, we find none so simple, clear, and 
may be correct as that given seventeen hundred years 
ago by Galen, a physician of Pergamus, which is to 
supply that which is deficient by communication, and 
to remove that which is in excess by means of a 
remedy which tends to abstract it. This is a perfect 
definition for the removal of disease, and for the 
restoration of health; and when physiological chemistry 
is sufficiently advanced to tell us undoubtedly^ which 
elements are deficient, and which are in excess, and 
when we are further able to supply or remove them, 
then will medicine be perfect — then will it take its 
place as the first, foremost, and most indispensable 
science — the most important of all to humanity. 

In relation to the bodily state of ^' old age,^^ and 
the possibility of delaying such a state of the system. 



CAN WE PROLONG LIFE? 171 

Galen's definition has been irresistibly forced upon ns. 
For we find in old age tbat earthy and otber solid 
matter is in excess, and that phosphorus is to a certain 
extent deficient. The remedy is to remove that which 
is in excess, and to restore that which is deficient. 

In an oration delivered before the Medical Society 
of London, Dr. B. W. Richardson said : *' I think I 
am not far wrong in making the general confession, that 
out of all our collection of details, gathered from time 
immemorial, we have never as yet eliminated so much 
as one great and fundamental law relating to diseases 
as a whole.'' 

This deficiency in the first place arises to a great 
extent from a general acceptance of hypotheses as ex- 
planations of phenomena. What is " discovered " to- 
day is so likely to be contradicted to-morrow, ^' for the 
truth lies in the statement that in medicine experiment,. 
as a rule, is turned into hypothesis, and not into fact J' 
This is the great cause of its comparatively slow pro- 
gress, and wherever hypothesis is erroneous, more 
patience and a longer period are required to prove it 
to be so, than the time occupied in its construction. 
In the second place, this deficiency arises from the 
tardy development of physiological chemistry. Let us, 
however, not decry medicine for these reasons, let us 
rather strive to advance it. For, as Sir Thomas 
Watson so justly observes : " The profession of medi- 
cine, having for its end the common good of mankind, 
knows nothing of national enmities, of political strife, 
of sectarian divisions. Disease and pain the sole con- 
ditions of its ministry, it is disquieted by no misgivings 
concerning the justice or honour of its clients' caused ; 



172 CAN WE PEOLONG LIFE ? 

but dispenses its peculiar benefits without stint or 
scruple^ to men of every country and party and 
rank and religion^ and to men of no religion 
at all/' 

In considering exclusively tbe subject before us, 
does not the action of atmospheric oxygen upon the 
system — especially when excessive — and also the 
gradual accumulation of earthy and other solid matter 
in the body, with its numerous and abstruse diver- 
gencies, open out to us a world of new ideas in regard 
to the fundamental causes of many diseases ? 

In conclusion, we may say, that, although the desire 
for long life exists as a natural, prevalent, and deeply- 
rooted love, there are, through continued trial and dis- 
appointment, many exceptions; in fact the present 
subject is not acceptable to all. Our remarks are 
therefore confined to those who believe that, '' In this 
world there is, or might be, more sunshine than rain, 
more joy than sorrow, more love than hate, more smiles 
than tears. The good heart, the tender feeling, and 
the pleasant disposition make smiles, love, and sun- 
shine everywhere/' 

In the pages of Nature are distinctly and legibly 
written — to those who will refer but with patience — 
the laws of life and the laws of death ; and in clear, 
unmistakable characters the reason — the cause — of 
the ultimate death of every animate being. There 
are abundant materials for investigation and research ; 
the cause of '' old age" in man is demonstrated, and a 
means of checking it has herein been clearly explained ; 
and it would not be contrary to the dictates of our 
nature to hope that science may be incited into an 



CAN WE PEOLONG LIFE ? 173 

inquiry for more general perfection, whicli may be the 
means of actually conquering it : 

" By showing conclusively and clearly, 
That Death is a stupid blunder merely, 
And not a necessity of our lives." 

Longfellow. 



APPENDIX 



Owing to tlie general objection to Biblical quotations 
being given as part of a scientific subject^ we append 
the following Canonical and Apocryphal extracts, not 
for the purpose of proving, or necessarily to verify, 
but to stow their coincidence with what we have 
demonstrated to be possible on scientific grounds : 

" God created man to he immortal^ and made him to 
be an image of His own eternity."'^ 

'^ And the Lord God commanded the man, saying. 
Of every tree of the garden thou may est freely eat ;* 
but of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, thou 
shalt not eat of it; for in the day that thou eatest 
thereof thou shalt surely die.'^ 

'' And the woman said unto the serpent. We may eat 
of the fruit of the trees of the garden ; but of the tree 
whicb is in the midst of the garden, God hath said, Ye 
shall not eat of it, neither shall ye touch it, lest ye die.'' 

'' And unto Adam He said. Because thou hast heark- 
ened unto the voice of thy wife, and hast eaten of the 

* Hebrew : " Eating^ thou shalt eat" 



CAN WE PROLONG LIFE ? 175 

tree, of wliicli I commanded thee, saying. Thou shalt 
not eat of it ; cursed is the ground for thy sake ; in 
sorrow shalt thou eat of it all the days of thy life/' 

" And the Lord God said. Behold, the man is become 
as one of us, to know good and evil ; and now, lest he " 
put forth his hand, and take also of the tree of life, and 
eat, and live foe evee : therefore the Lord God sent 
him forth from the garden of Eden, to till the ground 
from whence he was taken/' 

^' For God made not death : neither hath He pleasure 
in the destruction of the living.-" 

" For He created all things that they might have 
their being : and the generations of the world were 
healthful : and there is no poison of destruction in 
them, nor the hingdom of death upon the earth/' 

*^ But ungoldly men with their works and words 
called it to them/' 

'^ And (our fathers) received the laws of life, which 
they kept not/' 

*' Know this therefore, that they which are left 
behind are more blessed than they that be dead/' 

" If therefore thou shalt destroy him, which with so 
great labour was fashioned, it is an easy thing to be 
ordained by thy commandment, that the thing which 
was made might be preserved/' 

'^ Oh, thou Adam ! what hast thou done ? for though 
it was thou that sinned, thou art not fallen alone, but 
we that come of thee/' 

'' For what profit is it unto us if there be promised 
an immortal time, whereas we have done the works 
that bring death ?" 

" For they shall also pray unto the Lord, that He 



1 76 CAN WE PEOLONG LIFE ? 

would prosper tliafc wMcli they give for ease, and 
remedy to prolong life.'^ 

^^ Behold I show you a mystery; we shall not all 
sleep, but we shall all be changed .... then shall be 
brought to pass the saying that is written. Death is 
swallowed up in victory." 

'' The face of the covering cast over all people, and 
the veil that is spread over all nations shall be de- 
stroyed, and death siuallowed up in victory.'' 

" I have no pleasure in the death of him that dieth, 
saith the Lord God, wherefore turn yourselves and live 
ye." 

Members of many religious denominations believe 
that there will be a day when " they shall sit every 
man under his vine and under his fig-tree, and none 
shall make them afraid.'^ 

'^ In that day, saith the Lord of Hosts, shall ye 
call every man his neighbour under the vine and under 
the fig-tree.'' 

'^And they shall beat their swords into plough- 
shares and their spears into pruning -hoohs." 

" And they shall plant vineyards, and eat the fruit 
of them." 

" There shall be no more thence an infant of days, 
nor an old man that hath not filled his days : for the 
child shall die an hundred years old.''^ 

'^ Behold the days come, saith the Lord, that the 
ploughman shall overtahe the reaper, and the treader of 
grapes him that soweth seed .... and they shall plant 
vineyards, and drink the wine thereof ; they shall also 
mahe gardens, and eat the fruit of them." 



CAN WE PEOLONG LIFE ? 



177 



" And there shall be no more death ; neither sorrow, 
nor crying, neither shall there be any more pain/^ 
'^ The last enemy that shall be destroyed is death/' 
That which is true is true absolutely ; materially and 
spiritually. It cannot therefore be claimed that this 
language of Scripture has exclusively a spiritual refer- 
ence. Whatever the objections to these quotations may 
be (if any)_, we may observe that many are led away 
into atheistic and materialistic views, against their own 
will, contrary to the very yearnings of their inner nature, 
by the dictates of science ; they are pulled forcibly 
away, they are dragged by a chain composed of links, 
each one of which is a theory of the day, and which we 
may again compare to the metals. Of these links some 
few are golden, true, lasting and eternal; others are but 
as the baser metals — oxidisable, destructible. Those 
which are erroneous must corrode and decay — be de- 
stroyed by the advances of investigation ; they must 
become, as it were, but as oxides of the earths, trampled 
upon, unnoticed, forgotten, and eventually wrapt in 
the cloak of oblivion. 



THK END. 



LONDON : BAILLIERE, TINDALL, AND COX, 20, KING WILLIAM STREET. 



POPULAR PUBLICATIONS 

BY 

BAILLIERE, TINDALL, & COX, 



The Throat and its Diseases. A Practical Guide to Diag- 
nosis and Treatment. With one hundred Typical Illustrations in chronic- 
lithography (seven colours) and fifty Wood Engravings, designed and executed 
by the Autlior, 

Lennox Browne, F.K.C.S. Ed., 
Senior Surgeon to the Central London Throat and Ear Hospital ; Surgeon and 
Aural Surgeon to the Royal Society of Musicians, &c. 18s. 

The Building of a Brain. 

By Edward H. Clarkr, M.D., 

Author of Sex in Education. Price 6s. 

" We are much pleased with this little work, which is carefully and elegantly 
•written, and full of sound physiology."— Z.a/(C«f. 

Overwork and Premature Mental Decay : its Treatment. 

An Essay read before the Medical Society of London. 

By C. II. F. UouTH, M.D., M.R.C.P., 
E.K-Presidentof the Medical Society of London, Senior Physician to the Sama- 
ritan Hospital for Women and Children. Third Edition. Price 2s. 6d. 
By the same Author. 

Population. On the Evils, Moral and Physical, likely to 

follow, if practices, intended to act as checks to population, be not strongly dis- 
couraged and condemned. A paper read before the British Medical Association 
at Bath, August, 1878, with the discussion thereon. Is. 

Consumption: its True Nature and Successful Treatment. 

By Gouwiy W. Timms, M.D., M.B., M.R.C.P. Lend., 
Senior Physician to the North London Consumption Hospital, Consulting Phy- 
sician to the Western Dispensary. Second Edition. Price 10s. 6d. 

New Manual of Physiology. 

By Professors Kuss and Duvai,, of Strasbourg, 
Translated by Professor Amory, M.D. 
Illustrated with 150 engravings. Price 10s. 6d. 
" Prof. Kuss's work seems to us to be tlie best Students' Manual we have seen." — 
Medico-Chirurffical Revitiv. 

Pood ; its Varieties, Chemical Composition, Nutritive Value, 

Comparative Digestibility, Physical Functions and Uses, Preparation, Culi- 
nary Treatment, Preservation, Adulterations, &c. 

By Henry Lktheby, M.B., M.A., Ph.D., (fee. 2nd edition, price 5s. 
"Either as a text-book for schools or as a household guide, it is excellently 
adapted."— PuWic Opinion. 



London : Bailliere, Tindall, & Cox, King William Street, Strand. 



v^ 



o- u 



^ '^ 




Unirersity of Toronto 
Library 



DO NOT 

REMOVE 

THE 

CARD 

FROM 

THIS 

POCKET 




Acme Library Card Pocket 

Under P«t. **Ref . Index FUe" 

Made bjr LIBRARY BUREAU 




■■1 'i^^m^im^^k 






.4?: 



la 



