ALBERT R. MANN 
LIBRARY 



New York State Colleges 

OF 

Agriculture and Home Economics 




Cornell University 



Cornell University Library 
TX 715.T99 



Housekeeping in old Virginia.Containing 




3 1924 003 566 035 



Cornell University 
Library 



The original of tliis book is in 
tine Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924003566035 



BxBouTivB Mansion, "Washikgton, Dec. 20, 1878. 
1 am very much pleased with it. 

Mrs. R. B. HAYES. 



From the wife of Secretary of State W. M. Evaets : 

Washington Citt, Dec. 19, 1878. 
Every lady who desires to learn some of the secrets which have made so 
enviable a reputation for the matrons of "Old Virginia'' should possess this 
book. 

Mrs. W. M. EVAKTS. 



from the wife of U. S. Senator George H. Pendleton, Ohio : 

Cincinnati, Dec. 14, 1878. 
Mrs. Tyree's new cook-book, " Housekeeping in Old Virginia," containing 
the garnered experience of most of the noted housewives of the "Old Dominion," 
I find admirable, and regard it truly as a valuable work. 
Please send me two more copies. 

ALICE KEY PENDLETON. 



From the wife of Governor George B. McClellan, New Jersey : 

Tbbnton, N. J., Dec. 28, 1878. 
I believe this book contains just what American housewives need and will 
appreciate. 

B. M. McCLELLAN. 



From the wife of U. S. Senator M, C. Bdtler, South OaioUna: 

Washington City, Dec. 23, 1878. 
The matrons of the " Old Dominion " have won an enviable reputation for 
their superb cooking and their delightful housekeeping, and the new book — 
"Housekeeping in Old Virginia'' — compiled from choice recipes, furnished by 
two hundred and fifty of Virginia's best-known women, will, I am sure, gladden 
the hearts of the housewives of our country. 

Mrs. M. C. BUTLER. 



From the wife of U. 8. Senator John B. Gordon, Georgia : 

Washington City, Deo. 13, 1878. 
If the housewives of our country will be guided by this book, I am satisflod 
that dyspepsia and kindred diseases will be less common in the land, and at t'he 
same time they will learn how to prepare the food for which Virginians are so 
celebrated, 

Mrs. J. B. GORDON. 



A Reprint of the Original 

Favorite Recipes Press, Inc. © MCMLXV 

Post Office Box 18324 

Louisville, Kentucky 40218 



HOUSEKEEPING 



IN OLD VIRGINIA. 



CONTAINING 



Contributions from Two Hundred and Fifty of Virginia's 

Noted Housewives, Distinguished for their Skill 

IN THE Culinary Art and other Branches 

of Domestic Economy. 



EDITED BV 



MARION CABELL TYREE. 



"Who can find a virtuous woman? for her price is far above rubies. , . She 
looketh well to the ways of her household, and eateth not the bread of idleness." — 
Prov. xxxi, lo, 27. 



LOUISVILLE, KY.: 
JOHN P. MORTON AND COMPANY. 

1879 



COPYKIQHTBD BY 

JOHN P. MOKTON AND COMPANY. 

1879. 



GENERAL CONTENTS. 



PAOI 



Preface 7 

List of Ccntrihutors 11 

Bread 19 

Coffee, Tea, and Chocolate 61 

Milk and Butter 65 

Soup 68 

Oystei-s and other Shell Fish 85 

Fish 97 

Game 107 

Meats 114 

Beef and Yeal 136 

Mutton and Lamb 168 

Poultry 176 

Salads 190 

Sauces 200 

Brunswick Stews, Gumbo, and Side Dishes 211 

Eggs 232 

Vegetables 238 

Pickles and Catsups 255 

Cake 304 



VI OONTBaJTB. 

PAai 
Icing 348 

Gingerbread. 350 

Small Cakes 353 

Puddings 365 

Pudding Sauces 40J 

Pastry 404 

Fritters and Pancakes 416 

Jelly, Blanc-mange, Charlotte Rnsse, Baked Custard, 

Creams, and Miscellaneous Desserts 417 

Ice Cream and Frozen Custard 430 

Fruit Desserts 442 

Preserves and Fruit Jellies 443 

Confectionery 458 

Wines 461 

Beverages, Cordials, etc 468 

The Sick-Room — Diet and Remedies for the Sick. . . 476 

House-cleaning, etc 497 

Recipes for Restoring Old Clothes, Setting Colors, 

Removing Stains, etc 505 

Miscellaneous Recipes 508 



PREFACE. 



ViKGlNiA, or the Old Dominion, as her children delight to 
call her, has always been famed for the style of her living. 
Taught by the example of her royal colonial governors, and 
the numerous adherents of King Charles, who brought hither 
in their exile the graces and luxuriousness of his brilliant 
court, she became noted among the colonies for the princely 
hospitality of her people and for the beauty and richncKS of tlieir 
living. But when at length her great son in the House of 
Burgesses sounded the cry of war, and her people made liaste 
to gird themselves for the long striiggli?, her daughtLMS, not to 
be outdone either in services or patriotism, set about at once 
the inauguration of a plan of rigid retrenchment and reform in 
the domestic economy, wliile at the same time exhibiting to 
their sistei-s a noble example of devotion and self-sacrifice. 

Tearing the glittering arms of King George from their side- 
boards, and casting them, with their costly plate and jewels, as 
offerings into the lap of the Continental Congress, they intro- 
duced in their homes that new style of living in which, discard- 
ing all the showy extravagance of the old, and retaining onljl 



Vlll PREFACE. 

its inexpensive graces, they succeeded in perfecting that system 
which, surviving to this day, has ever been noted for its beau- 
tiful and elegant simplicity. 

This system, which combines the thrifty frugality of New 
England with the less rigid style of Carolina, has been justly 
pronounced, by the throngs of admirers who have gathered from 
all quarters of the Union around the generous boards of her 
illustrious sons, as the very perfection of domestic art. 

It is the object of the compiler of this book, for she does not 
claim the title of author, to bring within the reach of every 
American housekeeper who may desire it, tlio domestic prin- 
ciples and practices of these famous Virginia homes. In doing 
this she lias not sought to pursue the plan adopted by so many 
authors of such books — to depend upon her own authorship for 
her rule. She confesses that in this matter her labors have 
been largely editorial. 

Through a long life it hae been her good fortune to be a fre- 
quent visitor, and often the intimate guest and kinswoman, at 
many of these homes ; and she has sought, by the opportunities 
thus afforded, and guided by her own extensive experience as a 
housekeeper, to gather and select from these numerous sources 
those things which seemed to her best and most useful to the 
practical housewife, and which, carefully observed, would bring 
the art within reach of all who have the ambition to acquire it. 

It will be seen that she is indebted to near 250 contributors 
to her book Among these will be found many ncmns famous 



PKEFAOE. IX 

through the land. Associated with them will be discovered 
others of less rational celebrity, but who have acquired among 
their neighbors an equally nibrited distinction for the beautiful 
order and delightful cuisine of their homes. 

The labors of the writer have been greatly lightened by the 
kindness of these contributors. And she desires in this public 
way to renew her thanks for the aid which they have given her, 
but even more for the goodness which prompts tliem, at cost of 
their sensitiveness, to allow her to append their names to the 
recipes which they furnish. 

The book, after great care in its preparation, is now offered 
to the public with much confidence. All tliat is here presented 
has been so thoroughly tested, and approved by so many of the 
best housekeepers in Virginia, that she feels it must meet with 
a cordial and very general reception at the hands of all accom- 
plished housewives throughout the land, and will supply a long- 
felt and real need. 

If she shall thus succeed in disseminating a knowledge of the 
practice of the most odmirable system of domestic art hnovm in 
our cmintry ; if she shall succeed in lishtening the labors of the 
housewife by placing in hor reach a guide which will be found 
always trusty and reliable / if she shall thus make her tasks 
lighter and home-life sweeter ; if she shall succeed in contribut- 
ing something to the health of American children by instrict- 
ing their mothers in the art of i>re])aring light and wholesome 
and palatable food ; if she, above all, shall succeed in making 
A.merican homes more attractive to A merican husbands, and spare 
1* 



X PKEFACh. 

tliejn a resort to liotels and saloons for those simjjle luoouries which 
their wives know not how to 2}roi!ide/ if she shall thus add to the 
comfort, to the health and hap[)y contentment of these, she will 
have proved in some measure a public benefactor, and will feel 
amply repaid for all the labor her work has cost. 

MAEION CABELL TYREE. 
Lynchburg, Va , January. 1&7T, 



LIST OF CONTKIBUTORS. 



Mrs. Robert Alexander Fredericksburg, Va. 

Mrs. Jonisr J. Ambler Lynchburg, 

Mrs. Judge Anderson Lexington. 

Mrs. Charlotte Armstrong Richmond.. 

Miss Nannie Averett Aiuherst Co. 

"Mozis Addums." Richmond. 

Mrs. R. T. H. Adams Lynchburg. 

Mrs. John T. Anderson Virginia. 

Mrs. John Thompson Brown Nelson Co. 

Mrs. Benjamin J. Barbour Orange Co. 

Mrs. Judge Barton Fredericksburg. 

Miss Mary Bella Bbale Richmond. 

Mrs. Orvillk Bell Liberty. 

Mrs. C. S. Bliss Lynchburg. 

Mrs. S. Brady Wheeling, West Va. 

Mrs. Emma Breckinridge Fincastle. 

Mrs. Julia Breckinridge 

Mrs. Brinckbrhofp Fredericksburg 

Mrs. John Brooke Lexington. 

Mrs. M. B Warrenton, Fauquier Co. 

Mrs. Bruce Virginia. 

Mrs. Marcus B. Buck Front Royal, Warren Co, 

Mrs. Armstead Burwell Franklin Co, 



Xll LIST OF CONTEIBDTOEB. 

Mrs. Charles W. Burwell Ellicot City, Md 

Mrs. Wm. Burwell Georgia. 

Mrs. Charles Button Lynchburg 

Dr. Burney Montgomery, Ala 

Mrs. George A. Burks Lynchburg. 

Mrs. Broaddus Mecklenburg Co. 

Mrs. Byud Virginia. 

Mrs. William Cameron Petersburg, 

Mrs. Clara Cabell Nelson Co. 

Mrs. Louis W. Cabell Buclcingham Co 

Mrs. Margaret C. Cabell " " 

Mrs. H. Coalter Cabell Richmond. 

Mrs. Maky C. Campbell Baltimore, Md. 

Mrs. Thos. Campbell Bedford Co, 

Mrs. Wm. Campbell " 

Mrs. Eliza H. Carrinqton Halifax Co. 

Mrs. Paul Carrington " " 

Mrs. Fannie Carrington Charlotte Co. 

Mrs. Henry Carrington " " 

Mrs. Theo. M. Carson Lynchburg 

Mr. Edward Camm " 

Mrs. Fannie Chalmers 

Mrs. Addison Cobbs Charleston, West Va. 

Mrs. Alice Coleman Halifax Co. 

Mrs. Dr. Coleman Williamsburg, 

Mrs. John L. Coles Northumberland Co 

Mrs. Peyton Coles Albemarle Co, 

Mrs. Tucker Coles " " 

Mrs. Raleigh Colston Richmond. 

Mrs. H. p. Chew Fredericksburg. 

Mrs. Camillus Christian Lynchburg, 

Dr. E. a. Craighill " 

Mrs, D. Cone Warren Co 



LIST OF CONTKIBUTOES. Xlll 

Mrs. Davis Chtslerfield C!o 

Mb8. Robert J. Davis Lynchburg. 

Mrs. Mart M. Dame Danville. 

Mrs. Johk B. Dangbrfield Alexandria. 

Mrs. Addison M. Davies Lynchburg 

Mrs. Horatio Davis Pittsylvania Co. 

Mrs. f^ANK Deane Lynchburg 

Mrs. Jos. Deans Gloucester Co. 

Mrs. Judge Asa Dickinson Prince Edward Co. 

Mrs. Melville Dunn Richmond. 

Mrs. Andrew Dunn Petersburg 

Mrs. Duke Suffolk Co. 

Miss D. D Norfolk. 

Miss Didlakb Lynchburg. 

Mrs. Maria Edmonds Prince Edward Co. 

Mrs. John T. Edwards Lynchburg. 

Mrs. Dr. Early " 

Mrs. Early " 

Mrs. J. D. Ewing Harrisonburg. 

Mrs. Elam Virginia. 

Mrs. Pitz Hugh " 

Mrs. F. B. Ficklin Fredericksburg. 

Mrs. F. F. Fitzgerald. Farmville. 

Mrs. J. H. Figgat Pincastle. 

Mrs. Col. Forsberg Lynchburg. 

Mrs. Graves Kentucky. 

Mrs. Caroline Garland Lynchburg. 

Mrs. Mart L. Garland. " 

Mrs. John F. Gardner Nekon Co. 

Mrs. Judge Geo. H. Gilmer Pittsylvania Co. 

Mrs. F. D. Goodwin Wytheville. 

Mrs. Judge Goolrick. Fredericksburg 

Mrs. Jahb V. Goolrick " 



XIV LIST OF CONTKIBUTOBS. 

Mrs. E. p. Goqgin Lynchburg. 

Mks. Susan Goggin Bedford Co 

Mrs. Newton Gordon Lynchburg. 

Mrs Isabella Gilmer " 

Mrs Isabella Harrison Charles City Co. 

Mrs. Elvira Henry Charlotte Co. 

Mrs E. Winston Henry " " 

Mrs. Mary G. Harding Staunton. 

Mii.8. Fred. Hickby Lynchburg. 

Mrs. John W. Holt " 

Mrs. Ann Holt Liberty, 

Mrs. Ferdinand C. Hutteh Lynchburg. 

Mrs. J. P. Hubbard Shepherdstown, West Va, 

Mrs. Wm. L. Hyland Parkersburg, West Va. 

Mrs. Edward Ingle Koanoke Co. 

Mrs. J. J. Irby New Orleans, La. 

Mrs. Joseph M. Jones Kentucky. 

Mrs. Dr. Jones Bedford Co. 

Mrs. Arthur Johns Northampton Co. 

Mrs. Col. Johnson Lexington. 

Mrs. J. Johnson Abingdon. 

Mrs. Thomas L. Johnson Lynchburg. 

Mrs. David Kent Pulaski Co. 

Mrs. D. B. Kinckle Lynchburg. 

Mrs. Kinsolvinq Halifax Co. 

Mrs. Knox Fredericksburg. 

Mrs. Dr. Henry Latham Lynchburg. 

Mr. K Norfolk. 

Mrs. L. D. Leighton Petersburg. 

Mrs. Col. Augustine Lbptwich Lynchburg. 

Mrs. Gen. Robert E. Lee " Arlington," Westmoreland Co 

Miss Mlldkbd C. Lbb Lexington 

Mrs. Gov. John Letcher « 



LIST OF CONTKLBUTOES. X'V 

Mks. Dr. Robert T. Lemmon Campbell Co 

Mrs. Andrew Lewis Harrisonburg 

Mrs. James Lanqhorne Lynchburg 

Mrs. John A. Langhornb Montgomery Co 

Mrs. Nannie A. Lanoiioune Lynchburg 

Mrs. Bichard T. Lacy " 

Mrs. M. L 

Mrs. Geo. D. Lawrence Miss. 

Mrs. Wm. H. Little Fredericksburg. 

Mrs. J. D. L , .... Lynchburg. 

L. D. L Albemarle Co, 

Mrs. Gov. Marye Fredericksburg. 

Mrs. John Mason " 

Mrs. O. Massie Brooklyn, N. Y. 

Mrs. Patrick Massie Nelson Co. 

Mrs. Sarah Meem Abingdon. 

Mrs. John F. Miller Lynchburg. 

Mrs. Charles L. C. Minor Blacksburg. 

Mrs. C. C. McPhail Charlotte Co. 

Mrs. John R. McDaniel Lynchburg 

Mrs. Mary McNutt Prince Edward Co 

Mrs. R. K. Meade Petersburg. 

Mrs. Wm. H. Mosby Amherst Co. 

Mrs. Alice Murrbl Lynchburg. 

Mrs. Wm. McFarland Missouri 

Mrs. C. V. McGee Ala 

Mrs. McGavock Pulaski Co. 

Gen. M Viiginia. 

Mrs. James J. Moore Richmond. 

Mrs. Geo. Newton Norfolk, 

Miss Fannie Nelson Yorktown 

Mrs. Geo. Nichols Bedford Co 

Mrs. Gen. F. T. Nichols New Orleans, La 



XVI LIST OF CONTRIBUTORS. 

Mrs. CHARiiES Nokvell Lynchburg 

Miss Norwood Richmond 

Mrs. Robert L. Owen Lynchburg 

Mrs. Geo. W. Palmer Saltville 

Mrs. R. L. Page Norfolk 

Mrs. David Pierce Wythevilla 

Mrs. John D. Powell Portsmouth. 

Mrs. Wm. Ballard Preston Montgomeiy Co 

Mrs. Gen. Robert Preston " " 

Mrs. Jas. Preston " " 

Mrs. Preston Virginia- 

Mrs. Annis E. Preston '. . . Lynchburg. 

Mrs. Richard Pollard " 

Mrs. James F. Payne " 

Miss Eliza Payne 

Mrs. Awnie- Phillips Fredericksburg. 

Mrs. Edmund H. Pendleton Cincinnati, Ohio. 

Mrs. Price Charlotte Co. 

Mrs. John H. Parker Chesterfield Co. 

Mrs. Reid Noirfolk. 

Mrs. Mattie Reid Winchester. 

Mrs. David S. Read Roanoke Co. 

Mrs. "Wm. C. Rives Albemarle Co. 

Mrs. J. Henry Rives Lynchburg. 

Mrs. Roane " 

Mrs. J. H. Robinson 

Mrs. W. Russell Robinson Richmond. 

Mrs. Dr. Edward T. Robinson " 

Mrs. John Roberts Fredericksburg. 

Mrs. E. M. Ruggles " 

Mrs. Dr. Sale Liberty. 

Mrs. Geo. D. Saunders Buckingham Co. 

Mrs. Ann Saunders Lynchburg 



LIST OF CONTEEBUTOBS. XVU 

Mhs. Jambs A. Sedbon Goochland Co 

Mrs. Dr. Sbmplb Ala. 

Mrs. H. H. Servicb Alexandria 

Mrs. J. W. Shields Richmond. 

Mrs. Jas. W. Shields King Geo. Co. 

Mrs. H. T. Silvertiiorn Lynchburg. 

Mrs. Wm. A. Strother " 

Mr. Wm. A. Strother " 

Mrs. John W. Stone " 

Mrs. John F. Slaughter " 

Miss Lillie Slaughter " 

Mrs. Kate Slaughter " 

Mrs. Judge Spence " 

Mrs. Henderson Suter Liberty, 

Mrs. Harriet Stansburt New Orleans, La- 

Mrs. Shannon Miss 

Miss Ellen Shute New Orleans, La 

Miss Rebecca S.mith Norfolk. 

Mrs. Ch.\rlbs Sharp " 

Mrs. Sparks Viiginia 

Mrs. Col. Smith Pittsylvania Co 

Mrs. a. H. M. Taliaferro Orange Co 

Mrs. Mart W. Taylor Campbell Co 

Mrs. Major Tnos. L. Tatlor Campbell C. H 

Miss Julia Thompson Williamsburg. 

Mrs. C. L. Thompson Richmond. 

Mrs. J. Hanson Thomas Baltimore, Md. 

Mrs. Eli Tutwiler Lexington. 

Mrs. Samuel Tyrkb Lynchburg 

Mrs. John H. Tyrek " 

Mrs. Jas. Taylor Fredericksburg, 

Miss Edmonia Taylor Orange Co. 

Mrs. Tucker Virginia, 



XVlll LIST OF CONTEIBUTORS. 

Mks. Judge Watson Abingdon 

Mks. Dr. Thos. Walker Lynchburg 

Mrs. Coi,. W " 

Mrs. Col. Eorbrt B. Withers Wythevillo. 

Mrs Philip T. Withers Lynchburg. 

Mrs. Dr. R. W. Withers Campbell Co. 

Mrs. Edstdnd Withers Nelson Co. 

Mrs. Dr. Wingpield Maryland 

Mrs. R. M. C. Wingpield Portsmouth. 

Mrs. J. C. Wheat Winchester. 

Mrs. Judge Wharton Liberty. 

Miss Emily Whitehead Norfolk, 

Mrs. Robert Whitehead Nelson Co 

Mrs. John M. Warwick Lynchburg. 

Mrs. Wm. N. Welpord " 

Mr. Philip Withers " 

Miss Kate Wilson " 

Dr. Thos. L. Walker " 

Miss Nannie S. Lakghorne •• 



HOUSEKEEPING IN OLD VIRGINIA. 



BREAD. 

Bread is so vitally important an element in our nourishment 
that I have assigned to it the first place in my work. Truly, as 
Frederika Bremer says, " when the bread rises in the oven, the 
heart of the housewife rises with it," and she might have added 
that the heart of the housewife sinks in sympathy with the 
sinking bread. 

r would say to housewives, be not daunted by one failure, nor 
by twenty. Resolve that you toill have good bread, and never 
cease striving after this result till you have effected it. If per- 
sons without brains can accomplish this, why cannot you ? I 
would recommend that the housekeeper acquire the practice as 
well as the theory of bread-making. In this way, she will be 
able to give more exact directions to her cook and to more 
readily detect and rectify any blemish in the bread. Besides, if 
circumstances should throw her out of a cook for a short time, 
she is then prepared for the emergency. In this country 
fortunes are so rapidly made and lost, the vicissitudes of life 
are so sudden, that we know not what a day may bring forth. 
It is not uncommon to see elegant and refined women brought 
suddenly face to face with emergencies which their practical 
knowledge of household economy and their brave heai'ts enable 
them to firmly meet and overcome. 

To return to the bread question, however. Good flour is an 
Indispensable requisite to good bread. Floui-, whether old or 



20 



BEEAD. 



neWj should always be sunned and aired before being used. In 
the morning, get ont the flour to be made up at night for next 
morning's breakfast. Sift it in a ti-ay and put it out in the sun, 
or, if the day is damp, set it near the kitchen fire. Only experi 
ence will enable you to be a good judge of flour. One test is tc 
rub the dry flour between your fingers, and if the grains feel 
round, it is a sign that the flour is good. If after trying a 
barrel of flour twice, you find it becomes wet and sticky, after 
being made up of the proper consistency, you had better then 
return it to your grocer. 

The best flour is worthless without good yeast. Yeast made 
up in the morning ought to be flfc for use at night. It should 
be foamy and frothy, with a scent slightly like ammonia. After 
closely following the directions for yeast-making, given in the 
subsequent pages, the bread will be apt to succeed, if the flour 
employed is good. 

There is a great art in mixing bread, and it is necessary to 
observe a certain rotation in the process. To make a small 
quantity of bread, first sift one quart of flour; into that sift a 
teaspoonful of salt, next rub in an Irish potato, boiled and 
mashed flne, then add a piece of lard the size of a walnvit, and 
next a half teacup of yeast in which three teaspoonfuls of 
white sugar have been stirred. (Under no circumstances use 
soda or saleratus in your light dough.) Then make into a soft 
dough with cold watei in summer, and lukewarm in winter. 
Knead without intermission for half an hour, hy the clock 
Otherwise five minutes appear to be a half hour when bread is 
being kneaded or beaten. Then place it in a stone crock, greased 
with lard at the bottom, and set it to rise. In summer, apply no 
fti'tifiiiial heat to it, but set it in a cool place. As bread rises 
much more quickly in summer than in winter, you must make 
allowance for this difference, during the respective seasons. 
The whole process, including both the first and second rising, may 
be accomplished in seven or eight hours in summer, though this 
will be regulated partly by the flour, as some kinds of flour riae 



BEEAP. 21 

much more quickly than others. In summer you may make it 
up at nine o'clock p.m., for an eight o'clock breakfast next 
morning, but in winter, make it up at seven p.m., and then set it 
on a shelf imder which a lighted coal-oil lamp is placed. If you 
can have a three-cornered shelf of slate or sheet-iron, placed in a 
corner of the kitchen, just above the bread block, it will be all 
the better, though a common wooden shelf, made very thin, will 
answer, where you cannot get the other. The coal-oil lamp 
imderneath without running the risk of burning the shelf (it 
wooden), will keep the bread gently heated all night, and will 
answer the double purpose of keeping a light burning, which 
most persons like to do at night, and which they can do with 
scarcely any expense, by using a coal-oil lamp. 

Never knead bread a second time in the morning, as this 
ruins it. Handle lightly as j)ossible, make into the desired 
shapes and put into the moulds in which it is to be baked. 
Grease your hands before doing this, so as to grease the loaf or 
each roll as you put it in, or else dip a feather in lard and pass 
lightly over the bread just before putting it in the oven to 
bake. Let it be a little warmer during the second rise than 
during the first. Always shape and put in the moulds two 
hours before breakfa.st. If hot bread is desired for dinner, re- 
serve pai-t of the breakfast dough, keeping it in the kitchen in 
winter, and in the refrigerator in summer till two hours before 
dinner. 

In baking, set the bread on the floor of the stove or range, 
never on the shelf. Always turn up the damper before baking 
any kind of bread. As you set the bread in the stove, lay a 
piece of stiff writing paper over it to keep it from browning be- 
fore heating through. Leave the door ajar a few minutes, then 
remove the ])aper and shut the door. When the top of the loa. 
is a light amber coloi', put back the paper that the bread may 
not brown too much while thoroughly baking. Turn the mould 
M round so that each part may be exposed to equal heat. Havo 
an empty baking-])ai\ on the shelf above the bread, to prevent if 



■iri BEKAD. 

from blistering : some persons fill the pan with water, but I think 
this is a bad plan, as the vapor injures the bread. When thor- 
oughly done, wrap the bread a few moments in a clean, thick, 
oread towel and send to the table with a napkin over it, to be 
kept on till each person has taken his seat at table. 

I would suggest to housekeepers to have made at a tinner's, 
a sheet-iron shape for bread, eight inches long, four and one-half 
inches wide, and five and one-half deep. This is somewhat like 
a brickbat in shape, only deeper, and is very desirable for bread 
that is to be cut in slices, and also for bread that is to be pulled 
off in slices. A quart of flour will make eight large rolls, six 
inches high, for this mould, and three or four turnovers. It is a 
nice plan after making out the eight rolls to roll them with 
greased hands till each one will reach across the pan (four and 
one-half inches), making eight slices of bread which will pull off 
beautifully when well done, and thus save the task of slicing 
with a knife. It requires an hour to bake this bread properly. 

Do not constantly make bread in the same shapes : each 
morning, try to have some variation. Plain light bread dough 
may be made into loaves, rolls, twist, turnovers, light biscuit, 
etc., and these changes of shape make a pleasant and appetizing 
variety in the appearance of the table. The addition of three 
eggs to plain light bread dough will enable you to make Frencli 
rolls, muffins, or Sally-Lunn of it. As bi-ead is far more appe- 
tizing, baked in pretty shapes, I would suggest the snow-ball 
shape for muffins and egg bread. Very pretty iron shapes 
(eight or twelve in a group, joined together) may be procured 
from almost any tinner. 

If you should have indifferent flour of which you cannot get 
rid, bear in mind that it will sometimes make excellent beaten 
biscuit when it will not make good light bread. In making 
beaten buscuit, always put one teaspoonful of salt, a piece of lard 
the size of an egg, and a teacup of milk to a quart of flour, 
adding enough cold water to make a stiff dough : no other 
ingredients are admissible. Make the dough much stiffer tjian 



15READ. 23 

for other breads, beat steadily a half hour, hy the dock. Cut with 
a biscuit nutter or shape by hand, being careful to have the 
shape of each alike and perfect. Make them not quite half an 
inch thick, as they rise in baking. Do not let them touch each 
other in the pan, and Jet the oven be very hot. It is well not 
to have beaten biscuit and light bread baked at the same time, 
as they requii'e difterent degrees of heat. When two kinds of 
bread are required, try to have two such as require the same 
amount of heat. Egg bread and corn muffins require the same 
degree of heat as beaten biscuit, while Sally-Lunn and muffins 
need the same as light bread. 

There is no reason why the poor man should not have as well 
prepared and palatable food as the wealthy, for, by care and 
pains, the finest bread may be made of the simplest materials, 
and surely the loving hands of the poor man's wife and daughter 
will take as much pains to make his bread nice and light as hire- 
lings will do for the wealthy. The mistake generally made by per- 
sons in restricted circumstances is to make too great a use of soda 
bread, which is not only less wholesome, but is more expensive 
than light bread or beaten biscuit, as it requires more ingredi- 
ents. The bread, coffee and meat, which constitute the poor 
man's breakfast, properly cooked, furnish a meal fit for a prince. 

The furnishing of the kitchen is so impoi-tant that I must here 
say a few words on the subject. First, the housekeeper must 
have a good stove or range, and it is well for her to have the 
dealer at hand when it is put up, to see that it draws well. 
Besides the utensils furnished \\'ith the range or stove, she must 
provide every kitchen utensil needed in cooking. She must 
have a kitchen safe, — a bread block in the corner, furnished 
with a heavy iron beater ; trays, sifters (with iron rims) steam- 
ers, colanders, a porcelain preserving kettle, perforated skim- 
mers and spoons, ladles, long-handled iron forks and spoons, 
Bharp knives and skewers, graters, egg beaters (the Dover is 
the best), plenty of extra bread pans, dippers and tins of every 
kind, iron moulds for egg bread and muffins, wash pans, tea 



24 



BREAD. 



towels, bread towels, and hand towels, plates, knives, forks and 
spoons for use of the servants, a pepper box, salt box and 
dredge box (filled), a match safe, and last, but not least, a clock. 
Try as far as possible to have the utensils of metal, rather than 
of wood, hi cases where you cannot have cold and hot wator 
conveyed into t)ie kitchen, always keep on the stove a kettle ci 
hot water, with a clean rag in it, in which all greasy dishes and 
kitchen iitensils may be washed before being rinsed in the kitchen 
wash pan. Always keep your cook well supplied with soap, 
washing mops and coarse linen dish rags. I have noticed that il 
you hem the latter, servants are not so apt to throw them away. 
Insist on having each utensil cleaned immediately after being 
used. Have shelves and proper places to put each article, 
hooks to hang the spoons on, etc. If you cannot have an oil- 
cloth on your kitchen floor, have it oiled and -then it may be 
easily and quickly wiped over every moi-ning. Once a week, 
have the kitchen and every article in it thoroughly cleaned. 
First clean the pipe of the stove, as the dust, soot and ashes fly 
over the kitchen and soil everything. Then take the stove to 
pieces, as far as practicable, cleaning each part, especially the 
bottom, as neglect of this will prevent the bread from baking 
well at the bottom. After the stove is thoroughly swept out, — 
oven and all, apply stove polish. I consider " Crumbs of Com- 
fort " the besc )ireparation for this purpose. It comes in small 
pieces, each one of which is sufficient to clean the stove once, 
and is thus less a])t to be wasted or thrown away by servants than 
stove polish that comes in a mass. Next remove everything 
from the kitchen safe and shelves, which must be scoured befor* 
replacing the utensils belonging to them, and these too nmst 
first be scoured, scalded, and wiped dry. Then wash the win- 
dows, and lastly the floor, scouring the latter unless it is oiled, 
in which case, have it merely wiped over. 

Never let a servant take up ashes in a wooden vessel. Keep 
a sheet-iron pan or scuttle for the purpose. At night, always 
have the water buckets filled with water and also the kettles, 



HOUSEHOLD MEASURES YEAST. 25 

setting the latter on the stove or range, in case of sickness or any 
emergency during the night. Have kindling wood at hand also, 
so that a fire may be quickly made, if needed. 

Sometimes a discoloration is observable in iron kettles or 
other iron vessels. This may be avoided by filling them with 
hay before using them. Pour water over the hay, set the ves- 
sel on the fire and let it remain till the water boils. After tkis, 
scour in sand and ashes — then wash in hot soap-suds, after 
which process, there will be no danger of discoloration. 

Household Measures. 
Wheat Flour. 1 lb. is 1 quart. 
Indian Meal. 1 lb. 2 oz. are 1 quart. 
Butter, when soft, 1 lb. is I pint. 
Loaf sugar, broken, 1 lb. is 1 quart. 
White sugar, powdered, 1 lb. 1 oz. are 1 quart. 
Best brown sugar, 1 lb. 2 oz. are 1 quart. 
Ten eggs are 1 lb. 
Flour. 8 quarts are 1 peck. 
" 4 pecks are 1 bushel. 
16 large tablespoonfuls are -^ pint. 
8 large tablespoonfuls are 1 gill. 
2 gills are ^ pint. 

A. common sized tumbler holds ^ pint. 
A tablespoonful is ^ oz. 
60 drops are equal to a teaspoonful. 
4 teaspoonfuls are equal to 1 tablespoonful. 

YEAST. 

Boil one quart of Irish potatoes in three quarts of water. 
When done, take out the potatoes, one by one, on a fork, peel 
and mash them fine, in a tray, with a large iron spoon, leaving 
the boiling water on the stove during the process. Throw in 
this water a handful of hops, which must scald, not boil, as it 
turns the tea very dark to let the hops boil. 



26 IRISH POTATO YEAST ^YBAST THAT NEVER FAILS. 

Add to the masl ed potatoes a heaping teacupful of powdered 
white sugai- and half a teacupful of salt ; then slowly stir in the 
strained hop tea, so that tliere will be no lumps. When milk- 
warm add a teacujjful of yeast and pour into glass fruit jars, or 
large, clear glass bottles, to feimeiit, being careful not to close 
ihem tightly. Set in a warm place in winter, a cool one in sum- 
mer. In .six hours it will be ready for use, and at the end of 
that time the jar or bottle must be securely closed. Keep in a 
cold room in winter, and in the refrigerator in summer. This 
yeast will keep two weeks in winter and one week in summer. 
Bread made from it is always sweet. — Mrs. S. T. 

Irish Potato Yeast. 
1 quart of potatoes, boiled and mashed fine. 
1 teasijoonful of salt. 
\ teacup of sugar. 
Put two cups of flour in a bowl, and pour over it three cups 
of strong hoji-water, scalding hot, and stir it briskly. 

Then put all the ingi'edients in a jar together, and when cool 
enough, add a cup of j'cast, or leaven. 
Set it by the fire to rise. 
It will be I'eady for use in five or six hours. — Mrs. E. 

Another Heci^ye for Yeast. 
12 large potatoes, boiled and mashed fine. 
1 teacup of brown sugar. 
1 teacup of salt. 
1 gallon of hop tea. 
Mix the ingredients well, and when milk-warm, add a pint of 
yeast. Set it in a warm place to rise. Put one teacupful of 
this yeast, when risen, to two quarts of flour. — Mrs. Dr. S. 

Thasi tliat Never Fmls. 
Boil twelve potatoes in four quarts of water till reduced to 
three quarts. 



ALUM YEAST ^LEAVEN. 27 

Then take out and mash the potatoes, and throw into the 
water three handfuls of hops. 

When the hops have boiled to a good tea, strain the water 
over the potatoes, a small quantity at a time, mixing them well 
together. 

Add one teacup of brown sugar. 

] teacup of salt. 

1 tablespoonful of ground ginger. 

When milk-warm, add yeast of the same sort to make it rise. 

Put it in bottles, or a jug, leaving it uncorkeil for a day. 

Set it in a cool place. 

Put two large tablespoonfuls of it to a quart of flour, and 
when making up, boil a potato and mix with it. 

This yeast never sours, and is good as long as it lasts. — Mrs. 
A.F. 

Alum Yeast. 

On one jiint of flour pour enough boiling water to make a 
thick batter, stirring it until perfectly smooth, and then let it 
stand till milk-warm. 

Then add a teaspoonful of powdered alum. 
1 teaspoonful of salt. 
1' tablespoonful of sugar. 
Half a teacup of yeast. 
After it ferments, add enough meal to make it a stifi" dough. 
Let it stand till it works, and then spread it in the shade to 
dry. 

To a quart of flour put a tablespoonful of crumbs. — Mrs. J'. 

Leaven. 
2 tablespoonfuls of flour. 

1 tablespoonful of lard or butter. 

2 tablespoonfuls of yeast. 
2 eggs. 

1 potato. 

2 teaspoonfuls of sugar. 



28 EXCELLENT BREAD FOE BREAKFAST. 

Make the leaven soon after breakfast in winter, and at one 
o'clock P. M. in summer. Let it be of the consistency of bat- 
ter. Put it in a small bucket, in a warm jilace, to rise till four 
o'clock p. M. This amount of leaven is sufficient for two quarts 
of flour. If for loaf bread, leave out the eggs and butter. — 
Mrs. M. 

E.>CUELLKNT BUEAD FOll BllEAKFAST. 

1 quart of flour. 

Lard the size of a walnut. 

1 small Irish potato, boiled and mashed flue. 

1 heaping teaspoonful of salt. 

Half a teacup of good yeast, into which put a tablespoonful 
of white sugar. 

Make up a soft dough with cold water in summer and milk- 
warm water in winter. This must be kneaded for thirty min- 
utes, and then set to rise, in a cool place in summer, and a warm 
one in winter; must never be kept more than milk warm. 

Two hours before breakfast, make the dough into the desired 
shapes, handling it lightly, without hneading it, first rubbing 
lard over the hands, and taking especial care to grease the 
bread on to]). Then set it to rise again. 

Thirty minutes are sufficient for baking it, unless it be in the 
form of a loaf or rolls, in which case, it must be baked fifteen 
minutes longer. Excellent muffins may be made by the above 
receipt, adding two eggs well beaten, so that from the same 
batch of dough both plain bread and muffins may be made. 

Iron moulds are best for baking. 

For those who prefer warm bread for dinner, it is a good 
plan to reserve a portion of the breakfast dough, setting it 
away in a cool place till two hours befoi-e dinner, then make 
into turnovers or twist, set it to rise and bake it for dinner, as 
for breakfast. Very nice on a cold day, and greatly preferable 
to warmed-over biuad. — Mrs. S. T. 



family beead — old vieginia loaf beead. 29 

Recipe for Family Bread. 
2 quarts of flour. 
2 tablespoonfuls of lard or butter. 
2 teaspoonfuls of salt. 

Enough sponge for a two- quart loaf of bread. 
Mix with one pint of sweet milk. 
Make into rolls and bake with very little fire under the oven. 
—Mrs. A. C. 

Loaf Bread. 
First make a batter of the following ingredients. 
1 pint of flour. 
1 teaspoonful of salt. 
1 teaspoonful of sugar. 
A cup of water. 
A. cup of good yeast. 
Set this to rise and when risen work in two pints of flour, 
or, if the batter is not sufficient to work up this flour, add a 
little water. 

Work it smoothly and set it to rise. 

When risen, add a small piece of lard, work it well again, 
let it stand an hour and then bake it slowly. — 3Irs. P. IFi 

Old Virginia Loaf Bread. 

Sponge for the same. 

Boil one large Irish potato, until well done, then peel and 
mash it fine, adding a little cold water to soften it. Stir 
into it 

1 teaspoonful of brown sugar. 
1 tablespoonful of sweet lard. 

Then add three tablespoonfuls of good hop yeast. 

Mix the ingredients thoroughly, then put the sponge in a 
mu" with a close-fitting top, and let it stand, several liours to 
rise. 

Sift into the tray three pints of the best family flour, to ^\ hich 



30 ANOTHEK EEOIPE FOR LOAF BREAD. 

add a teaspoonful of salt. Then pour in the sponge and add 
enough cold water to the flour to work it up into a rather stiff 
dough. Knead it till the dough is svnooth, then let it stand all 
night to rise. Work it over in the morning, using just enoijjjh 
flour to keep it from sticking to the hands. Allow it one hour 
to lise before baking and one hour to bake in a moderate oven. 
Then it will be thoroughly done and well dried. 

Use a little lard on the hands when making out the loaf, as 
it keeps the crust from being too hard. — Mrs. S. 

Another Medpefor Loaf £read. 

Good flour is the first requisite, and next, good yeast and 
sufficient kneading. 

For a loaf of ordinary size, use 
2 lbs. of flour. 
Lard the size of a hen's egg. 
A saltspoonful of salt. 
2 gills of yeast. 

Mix up these ingredients into a moderately stift' dough, using 
for the purpose, from three gills to a pint of water. Some flour 
being more adhesive than others, you have to learn by experi- 
ence the exact amount of water required. 

Knead the dough till perfectly smooth, then set it to rise, in 
a cool place, in summer, but in a warm place, free from draughts, 
in winter. In the latter season it is better to keep a blanket 
wrapped around it. 

This amount of flour will rise to the top of a gallon and a 
half jar or bucket. If it is ready before time, stir it down and 
set it in a cooler place. 

When you put it in the baking-pan (in which it will be in 
an inch of the top, if the pan be of a suitable size for the 
iimount of flour) cover it well, or a hard crust will form from 
the efiects of the atmosphere. Keep it a little warmer during 
the second rise than during the first. When ready for baking, 
set it in the oven and bake it for three-quarters of an hour witb 



LIGHT BREAD — FRENCH ROLLS. 31 

a moderate fire, evenly kept up. It will then come out with- 
out sticking, i£ the pans are well cared for. — Mrs. J". J. A. 

Light Bread. 

2 quarts of flour. 

1 teaspoonful of sugar. 

1 teaspoonful of salt. 

Half a teacup of yeast. 

One egg, well beaten. 

1 pint of water. 
Sift the flour and divide it into three parts. Mix one third 
in the batter, one third in the jar to rise in, and pour tlie 
other third over the batter. Let it stand two hours and tlieii 
work it well, adding a small piece of lard before baking. — Mrs. 
Dr. S. 

Recipe for Hot Rolls or Cold Loaf Bread. 
Mix the following ingredients. 
Pour pints of flour. 

1 pint of fresh milk. 

2 eggs, well beaten. 

1 large tablespoonful of melted lard. 
1 large tablespoonful of hop yeast. 
Set it to rise at eleven o'clock in the morning, for early tea. 
Make into rolls at five o'clock p. m., and bake as soon as risen. 
In cool weather, set before the fire, both before and after mak- 
ing it into rolls. — Mrs. S. 

French Rolls. 
1 quart of flour. 

1 teaspoonful of salt. 

2 eggs. 

1 large tablespoonful of lard. 

2 tablespoonfuls of yeast. 



32 



FKENCH KOLLS — VELVET EtiLLS. 



Work and knead it well at night, and in the mcirning work 
it well again, make it into rolls, put them in the oven to take a 
second rise, and when risen, bake them. — Mrs. Col. W. 

Another Iieci2)e for French Molls. 

3 pints of flour. 
1 gill of yeast. 
1 egg (beaten up). 
1 tablespoojiful of butter. 
Mix up with milk and warm water and set to rise.— Mrs. 
Dr. E. 

Another Itecipe for French Molls or Twist. 

1 quart of lukewarm milk. 

1 teaspoonful of salt. 

1 teacup of yeast. 

Enough flour to make a stiff batter. 
When very light, add one beaten egg and two teaspoonfuls 
of butter, and knead in the flour till stiff enough to roll. Let 
it rise a second time, and, when very light, roll out, cut in 
strips and braid it. Bake thirty minutes, on buttered tins. — 
Mrs. S. 

Velvet Rolls. 

Three pints of flour. 
Two eggs. 

One teacup of sweet milk. 
One teacup of yeast. 

1 tablespoonful of lard, and the same of butter, 
^lix well and beat the dough till it blisters. 
Jjet it rise, work in a small quantity of flour, beat as before 
and make into rolls. After the second rising, bake quickly. — 
nfrs. Dr. S. 



POCKETBOOK EOLLS TURNOVERS. i^'i 

POCKETBOOK EOLLS. 
1 quart of flour. 

1 teaspoonful of salt. 

2 teapoonfuls of sugar. 

2 tablespooufuls of lard. 

3 tablespooufuls of yeast. 
2 eggs. 

Mix up these ingredients with warm water, making up the 
dough at ten a. m. in summer and eight a. m. in winter. Put 
in half the lard when it is first worked up, and at the second 
working put in the rest of the lard and a little more flour. 

Roll out the dough in strips as long and wide as your hand, 
spread with butter and roll up like a pocketbook. Put them 
in buttered tins, and, when they are light, bake them a light 
brown— J/rs. X. C. C. 

Turnovers. 

1 quart of flour. 

1 large Irish potato, boiled and mashed. 

3 eggs. 

1 tablespoonful of butter or lard. 

2 tablespoonfuls of yeast. 
1 teacup of milk. 

Rub the potato in the flour, then the lard and other ingre- 
dients, making it into a soft dough. Then set it to rise, at 
night if you wish it for breakfast next morning. Early in the 
morning, take off a piece of dough, the size of a biscuit, roll it 
out, about five inches long, then turn it about half over. When 
you have made up all the dough, in shapes like this, place them 
on a dish or board, cover with a napkin and set aside for a 
second rising. Whe'n ready to bake, dij) a feather in water and 
pass over them to prevent the crust being too hard. If the 
dough should be sour, knead in a little soda, which will correct 

it— Mrs. A. C. 
2* 



34 TURNOVEfiB — SALLY-LUNN. 

Another JRecipe for Ihi/rnovers. 
1 quart of flour. 
4 eggs. 

1 tablespoonful of lard or butter. 
1 tablespoonful of yeast. 
Set it to rise, then make them up round and flat, greasing 
the upper side with lard and turning over one side. When 
well risen the second time, bake — Mrs. J. 

Twist. 
From the dough of loaf bread or French rolls, reserve enough 
to make two long strips or rolls, say, fifteen inches long and 
one inch in diameter. Rub lard well between the hands before 
handling and shaping these strips. Pinch the two ends so as to 
make them stick together. Twist them, pre.ssing the other ends 
together to prevent unrolling. — Mrs. /S, T. 

Pockets. 
1 quart of flour. 
4 eggs. 

1 cup of butter. 
1 cup of yeast. 

1 large Irish potato, boiled and mashed into the flour. 
Add the yeast, butter and eggs, after mashing the potato in 
the flour. Knead all together and set to rise. 

Sally-Lunn. 
1 quart of flour. 
1 teaspoonful of salt. 
1 tablespoonful of white sugar. 
Rub in a heaping tablespoonful of butter and lard in equal 

parts, then rub in an Irish potato, mashed fine. 
Half a teacup of yeast. 
3 eggs well beaten. 
Make up the dough to the consistency of light bread dough. 



8ALLT-LUNN BECIPE FOE THE SAME. 35 

with warm water in winter, and cold in summer. Knead half 
an hour. When it has risen light, handle lightly, put into a cake- 
mould and bake without a second kneading. — Mrs. S. T. 

Another Recipe for Sally-Lunn. 

1 quart of flour. 

1 tablespoonful of yeast. 
4 eggs well beaten. 

2 oz. of butter or lard. 
1 pint of milk. 

Set it to rise in the pan in which it is to be baked. — 3£rs. 
A. C. 

Another Recipe for Sally-lAmn. 

3 pints of fl.our. 

1 tablespoonful of butter and the same of lard. 

3 eggs. 

1 light teacup of yeast. 

2 large tablespoonfuls of sugar. 

Use as much milk in mixing as will make a soft dough. 
Work this well, as it gets only one working. Then grease it, 
put it in a greased pan, and set it in a warm place to rise. Bake 
about an hour. — Mrs. Dr. T. 

Recipe for the Same, 

1 quart of flour. 

3 tablespoonfuls of yeast. 
3 eggs. 

1 saltspoonful of salt. 

Butter the size of an egg. 
Make up with new milk into a tolerably stiff" batter. Set 
it to rise and when risen pour into a mould and set to rise again, 
as light bread. Bake quickly. — Mrs. L. 



86 quick sau.t-lunn salt sulphue muffins. 

Quick Sally-Lunn. 

1 quart of flour. 
Half cup of butter. 

2 eggs. 

2 cups of milk. 

Two teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar. 

1 teaspoonful of soda. 

2 tablespoonfuls of sugar. 
1 saltspoonful of salt. 

Ijiike fifteen minutes. — Mrs. Dr. S. 

MUFFIKS. 

1 quart of flour. 

6 eggs, beaten very light. 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 

2 tablespoonfuls of yeast. — Mrs. Dr. JtJ. 

Sweet Spring Muffins. 
Sift three good pints of flour. Beat well six eggs, leaving 
out one and a half of the whites. Then beat into them as much 
flour as they will take in ; then add milk and flour alternately 
(beating all the while) till all the flour is used. Add flve table- 
spoonfuls of yeast, and when this batter is well beaten, stir into 
it two ounces of melted butter, cooled but liquid. The batter 
must be as stift' as can be beaten with an iron spoon. Bake in 
a hot oven. — Mrs. L. 

Salt Sulphur Muffins. 
Work together, about twelve o'clock in the day, one pint of 
yeast, half a pint of water, six eggs, one pound of butter and 
enough flour to make a dough just stiflf enough not to stick to the 
fingers. After the dough is risen, make it out in biscuit and 
allow half an hour or more for them to rise before baking. — 
Mrs. L. 



bupekioe muffins — ^muffins. 37 

Superior Muffins. 
1 quart of flonr. 
1 teaspoonful of salt. 
1 tablespoonful of white sugar. 
Rub in one heaping tablespoonful of butter and lard mixed, 
and one tablespoonful of Irish potato, mashed free from lumps. 
Pour in three well beaten eggs and a half teacup of yeast. 
Make into a soft dough with warm water in winter and cold in 
summer. Knead well for half an hour. Set to rise where it 
will be milk-warm, in winter, and cool in summer. If wanted 
for an eight o'clock winter breakfast, make up at eight o'clock 
the night before. At six o'clock in the morning, make out into 
round balls (without kneading again), and drop into snow-ball 
moulds that have been well greased. Take care also to grease 
the hands and pass them over the tops of the muffins. Set them 
in a warm place for two hours and then bake. 

These are the best muffins I ever ate. — Mrs. S. T. 

Parker House Muffins. 
Boil one quart of milk. When nearly cool stir in one quart 
sifted flour, one teaspoonful salt, one half cup of yeast. Then 
stir in three well beaten eggs. Let it rise in a warm place in 
winter and a cool one in summer, eight or ten hoirs. When 
risen light, stir in one tablespoonful melted butter and bake in 
iron muffin moulds. — Mrs. TFi S. M. 

Muffins. 
1 quart of flour. 
1 pint milk. 
3 eggs. 

1 heaping tablespoonful lard. 
1 « " butter. 

\ cup yeast. 
1 teaspoonful sugar. 
Mix and beat till perfectly light.— itfrs. W. ti. 



38 MUFFINS CKEAM MUFFINS. 

Another Recipe for Muffins. 
One quart of milk, one dozen eggs, one pound of butter. 
Beat tlie butter anil yolks together. Beat the whites to a stiff 
froth. Make the batter the consistency of pound cake, and 
bake in snow-ball cups as soon as made. — Mrs. G. W. B. 

Muffin Bread. 

3 pints of flour. 

4 eggs. 

1 pint of milk. 

1 large tablespoonful of butter. 
1 gill of yeast. 
A little salt. 
Make up at night. This makes two loaves. — Mrs. A F. 

Soda Muffins. 

1 quart of flour. 

2 eggs. 

3 teaspoonfuls of cream of tartai-. 
1 teaspoonful of soda. 

Add enough buttermilk to make a stiflf batter, and bake 
immediately. 

White Egg Muffins. 

1 pint of flour. 

Whites of 8 eggs, beaten to a stiff froth. 
Add enough milk to make it into a thin battfer. Put in a 
little salt. Very nice. — Mrs. C. C. McP. 

Cream Muffins. 

Beat the whites and yolks of four eggs separately. When 
well beaten, mix them and add to them a half pint of cream, a 
lump of melted butter half the size of an egg. Then mix in 



MISCELLANEOUS YEAST BKEAD8 OLD MAIDS. 31J 

slowly one pint of flour and bake it quickly, in small tins, with 
out any further beating. A delicious breakfast bread. — Mrs. 
Mc G., Ala. 

Miscellaneous Yeast Ereads. 

BUNNS. 

1 pint of potato yeast. 
4 ounces of sugar. 
4 ounces of butter. 

1 egg and as much flour as will make a soft dough. 
Make as Sally- Lunn and bake in rolls. — Mrs. Dr. S. 

Cottage Loaf. 
1 quart of flour. 
1 tablespoonful of sugar. 
1 tablespoonful of butter. 

1 tablespoonful of yeast. 

2 eggs, and a little salt. 

Make up at night for breakfast, mijring it with water. Bake 
in a quart tin pan. — Mrs. A. B. 

Potato Bread. 

1 quart of flour. 
4 eggs. 

4 good sized Irish potatoes, boiled, mashed and strained 
through a colander. 

2 ounces of butter. 

As much yeast as is needed to make it rise. 
To be made up with water, not so stifi" as light bread dough. 
Bake in a loaf or rolls. — Mrs. J". H. F. 

Old Maids. 
Made at night like common light bread. Roll out the size 
of saucers in the morning, for the second rising. Bake on 
a hoe, turning over as a hoe cake. Then toast the sides, ir 



40 GRAHAM BEEAD — ^BEOWN BEEAD BUSKS. 

front of a fire. A very nice, old-fashioned bread. — 3fr8. 
Dr. K 

Gkaham Bread. 
The night before baking, make a sponge of white flour, using 
half new milk and half cold water, with a teacup two thirds 
full of home-made yeast. In the morning, put four tablespoon- 
fuls of this sponge in a separate dish, adding three tablespoon- 
fuls of molasses, a little milk or water, and stirring in as mich 
Graham flour as you can with a spoon. Then let it rise and 
mould the same as white bread. 

Brown Bread. 
One quart of light bread sponge, one-half teacup of molasses. 
Stir into the above, with a large spoon, unbolted wheat meal, 
until it is a stiff dough. Grease a deep pan, put the mixture 
in ; when light, put the pan over a kettle of hot water (the 
bread well covered), and steam for half an hour. Then put in 
the oven and bake until done. Especially good for dyspeptics. 
— Mrs. D. Cone. 

Box Bread. 
One quart of flour, one teacup of yeast, one teacup of melted 
lard or butter, four eggs, one teaspoonful of salt. Let it rise iis 
light bread, and, when risen, make it into square rolls, without 
working it a .second time. Let it rise again and then bake it. 
-^Mrs. R. E. W. 

Rusks. 
1 cup of yeast. 
1 cup of sugar. 
1 cup of cream. 
4 eggs. 
Enough flour to make a batter, mixed with the other ingredi- 
ents. Let it rise ; then add enough flour to make rolls, and 



EGG BUSKS — GERMAN EUSKS ^FEENOH BISCUIT. 41 

also add a teacup of lard and butter mixed. Bake as rolls after 
they have risen. — Mrs. S. 

Egg Rusks. 
Melt three ounces of butter in a pint of milk. Beat siy 
eggs into one-fourth of a pound of sugar. Mix these ingredi- 
ents with enough flour to make a batter, adding a gill of yeast 
and half a teaspoonful of salt. When light, add flour to make 
a dough stifl' enough to mould. Make into small cakes and lot 
them rise in a warm place while the oven is heating. — Mrs. 
Dr. S. 

German Busks. 

1 quart of flour. 

2 eggs. 

2 cups of .sugar. 

2 cups of lard and butter mixed. 

2 cups of potato yeast. 

2 cups of milk. 

1 nutmeg. 
Put all the ingredients in the middle of the flour, work well 
together and set to rise as loaf bread. Wash the rolls over 
with butter and sugar. — Mrs. G. L. T. 

French Biscuit. 
1 quart of flour. 
1 teaspoonful of salt. 
Rub in one tablespoonful of butter and lard mixed. 
Pour in half a teacup of yeast, two well beaten eggs, and 
enough water to make a soft dough. Knead half an hour. 
Then set to rise ; when well risen, roll out, without kneading 
again. Handle lightly, first greasing the hands with butter. 
Cut with a biscuit cutter, greasing one biscuit and ])lacing an- 
other on it. Set to rise a second time before baking. — Mrs 
S. T. 



42 vanity buisouit ceeam biscuit. 

Vanity Biscuit. 
One j)i)it of flour, one of milk, three eggs beaten well together 
Bake in cups. — Miss J). 

I 
\Beaten Biscuit. 

Oue quart of flour, lard the size of a hen's egg, one tea- 
spoonful of salt. Make into a moderately stiiF dough with 
sweet milk. Beat for half an hour. Make out with the hand 
or cut with the biscuit cutter. Stick with a fork and bake in 
a hot oven, yet not sufficiently hot to blister the biscuit. — Mrs. 
iS. T. 

Another Hedpe for JBeaten JBiscuit. 
1 quart of flour. 
1 teaspoonful of salt. 
1 egg. 

I tablespoonful of butter and the same of lard. 
Mix up these ingredients with skimmed milk, work them 
well together and beat fifteen minutes. Stick with a fork and 
bake quickly. — Mrs. E. B. 

Soda Biscuit. 

1 quart of flour. 

1 heaping teaspoonful of cream of tartar, the same of soda, 
and the same of salt. Sift these together, then rub in a table- 
spoonful of lard and make up the dough with milk and water. 
—Mrs. E. B. 

Cream Biscuit. 

1 quart of sifted flour. 

Four teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar and two teaspoonfuls of 
fine table salt, which must be well diffiised through the flour. 
Then add two ounces of fresh, good butter. Take one pint of 
pure, sweet cream, put in it two even teaspoonfuls of soda and 
then add it to the flour. The dough ought to be very soft ; b>it 



EXCELLENT LIGHT BISCUIT — SODA. CEACKEES. 43 

should it be too soft, add a little more flour. Work it well, 
roll it out half an inch thick, cut with a biscuit cutter and bake 
in a quick oven five minutes. — Mrs. tT. S. F. 

Excellent Light Biscuit. 
Boil four large Irish potatoes. While hot, mash them with 
a piece of lard the size of an egg. Add one teacup of milk 
and one of yeast. Stir in enough flour to make a good batter 
and set it to rise. It will take about two quarts of flour. 
When light, make up the dough. You generally have to add 
more water or milk. Roll thick, let them rise slowly, but 
bake them quickly. — Mrs. M. G. H. 

Light Biscuit. 

Two quarts flour, one large tablespoonful lard, and the 
same of butter. Salt to the taste. One teaspoonful soda and 
enough buttermilk to make a soft dougli. Bake quickly. — Mrs. 
Dr. S. 

Thick Biscuit. 

One quart floui-, one large tablespoonful lard and butter mixed, 
one teasjioonful salt, enough morning's milk to make a stifi" 
dough. Work well and beat with a rolling-pin or iron pestle, at 
least half an hour. Make into small biscuit and bake in a quick 
oven. This will make sixteen biscuit. — 3frs. M. xi. P. 

Thin Biscuit ok Crackees. 
One quart of floxir, one tablespoonful lard and butter mixed, a 
little salt. Make a stiff paste with water. Beat the dough 
till it blisters. Roll thin, stick, and bake quickly.-— il/i's 

A. G. 

Soda Crackers. 

1 quart of flour. 

1 tablespoonful of lard and butter mixed. 

1 egg ; a little salt. 

1 teaspoonful of s.oda, sifted into the flour. 



44 HDUTSVILLE CBA0KKE8 — NUN's PUPFS. 

Make a stiff paste with buttermilk, beat until light, roll 
tolerably thia, cut in squares, prick, and bake quickly. — Mrs. 

A. a 

HUNTSVILLE CrACKEKS. 

Take a lump of risen dough, as large as your double fist, si 
heaping teaspoonful of loaf sugar, beaten with the yolk of an 
egg. Mix with the dough a lump of butter the size of a hen's 
egg and an equal quantity of lard, a tablespoonful of soda, dis- 
solved in a cup of cream. Beat a long time, stirring in flour 
all the while, till quite stiff. Roll out, cut in square cakes and 
bake in a brisk oven. — Miss M. P. 

Water Crackers. 
1 lb. of flour. 

1 teaspoonful of salt and the same of soda. 
1 tablespoonful of lard. 
Make up with sweet milk, beat well, roll thin, and bake 
quickly. 

Wafers. 
1 quart flour. 
Yolk of one egg. 
1 heaping tablespoonful lard. 
A little salt. 
Mix with milk, as stiff as you would for biscuit. Beat well 
with the biscuit beater, roll out thin and put in the wafer irons. 
Put in the fire and bake. — Mrs. Wi S. 

Nxjn's Puffs. 
Boil one pint of milk with half a pound of butter. Stir them 
into three-quarters of a pound of flour and let them cool. 
Then add nine eggs, yolks and whites to be beaten separately, 
and whites to be added last. Fill cups or tins half full and 
bake. When done, sprinkle with white sugar while he t. "Very 
nice for tea. — Mrs. A. D. 



MISOELLANKOtrS FLOTJE BBBADS. 45 

Jfiscellanecms Flowr Sreads, 
Lapland Bbeas. 
1 quart of flour. 
1 quart of cream. 
1 teaspoonful of salt. 
Twelve eggs (whites and yolks beaten separately and very 
light). Put the whites in the batter the last thing, beat very 
light, bake in a quick oven, in small tins, which must be per- 
fectly dry and sprinkled with a little flour before being greased. 
A delicious bread. — Mrs. Dr. J. 

A Plainer JEtedpefor the Same. 
1 pint of flour. 

1 pint of milk. 

2 eggs. 

Beat the eggs well and stii* in the flour and milk. Bake in 
little pans. 

New Bread. 
1 quart of flour. 

1 dessertspoonful of lard and the same of butter. 
1 teaspoonful of soda. 
Work the lard and butter in the flour, and sprinkle in the 
scda, with salt to taste. Mix with buttermilk or clabber to the 
consistency of biscuit. Roll it round to the size of a teaplate. 
Made just before eating. — Mrs. JF.r 

Henrietta Bread. 
1 pint of flour. 

1 pint of sweet milk. 

2 eggs, beaten separately. 

1 tablespoonful of lard or butter. 
Make the consistency of poor man's pudding. Bake in cups 
—Mrs. K. 



46 jenny lint) beead — breakfast fcfffi. 

Jennt Lind Bread. 

1 quart of sifted flour. 

A lump of butter the size of an egg 

2 teacups of milk. 
4 eggs. 

1^ teaspoonfuls of soda. 
2 teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar. 
IJake twenty minutes. — Mrs. L. 

Lunch Bread. 

1 pint of flour. 

1 tablespoonful of butter. 

3 tablespoonfuls of sugar. 

1 teaspoonful of soda. 

2 teaspoonfuls cream of tartar. 
2 eggs. 

1 cup of milk and a little salt. 
Bake in a flat pan in a quick oven. To be eaten hot witl] 
butter. — Mrs. I. H. 

Breakfast Puffs. 

One tumbler of flour, one tumbler of milk, and one egg. 
Beat the yolk and milk together, then add the flour, and lastly 
the white of the egg. Bake a few minutes in a hot oven. — 
Mrs. I. H. 

Another Hedpefor the Sa/me. 

Take two eggs well beaten and stir into a pint of milk ; add 
R little salt, two spoonfuls of melted butter, one and one-huH 
pints of floiir. Stir thoroughly, so as to avoid lumps. Grease 
the cups in which you pour the batter, and till them two-thirds) 
full. 



salt-eisen beead waffles. 47 

Salt-Risen Bread. 
Make into a thin batter : 

1 pint of flour. 
1 tablespoonful of corn meal. 
Half-teaspoonful salt. 
Set in a warm place to rise. After it has I'isen, pour into it 
two quarts of flour, with sufficient warm water to make up a 
loaf of bread. Work it well, set it to rise again, and when 
risen sufficiently, bake it. — Mrs. T. L. J". 

Another Mecipe for the Same. 
Into a pitcher, put one teacup of milk fresh from the cow, 
two teacups of boiling water, one tablespoonful of sugar, one tea- 
spoonful of salt. Into this stir thoroughly a little less than a 
quart of flour. Set the pitcher in a kettle of moderately warm 
water and keep it at a uniform temperature. Keep a towel 
fastened over the mouth of the pitcher. Set the kettle in front 
of the fire to keep the water warm. Let it stand three hours, 
then beat it up well, after which do not interrupt it. If in two 
hours it does not begin to rise, put in a large slice of apple. 
As soon as it rises sufiicieutly, have ready two quarts of flour, 
half a tablespoonful of lard and more salt, and make up immedi- 
ately. Should there not be yeast enough, use warm water. 
Put into an oven and set before a slow tire to rise, after which 
bake slowly. The yeast must be made up at seven o'clock in 
the morning. — Miss iV. C. A. 

Waffles. 
1 pint milk. 
3 tablespoonfuls flour. 
1 tablespoonful corn meal. 
1 tablespoonful melted butter. 
1 light teaspoonful salt. 
Three eggs, beaten separately, the whites added last. To 
liave good waffles, the batter must be made thin. Add another 



4-^ WAFFLES SODA WAFFLES. 

egg and a teacup of boiled rice to the above ingredients, if you 
wish to make rice wafiSes. — Mrs. S. T. 

Waffles. 
1 quart of flour. 

1 quart of sour cream (or buttermilk, if you have no cream). 
6 eggs. 

1^ teaspoonful of soda. 

Half a tablespoonful of melted lard, poured in after the bat- 
ter is mixed. 
This may be baked as flannel cakes or muffins. — Mrs. 
H.D. 

Another Redvpe for Waffles, 

1 quart of flour. 

6 eggs beaten very light. 
1^ pint of new milk. 

2 teaspoonfuls of salt. 

3 tablespoonfuls of yeast. 

Set it to rise at night, and stir with a spoon, in the morn- 
ing, just before baking. When you want them for tea, make 
them up in the morning, in winter, or directly after dinner, in 
summer. — Mrs. Dr. J". 

Soda Waffles. 
1 pint of flour. 
1 pint of milk. 

1 teaspoonful of soda, dissolved in the milk. 

2 teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar, mixed in the flour. 
2 eggs. 

1 tablespoonful of butter. 
Beat up and bake quickly. 

Another Hecipe for Waffles. 
1 quart of flour, with a kitchen-spoonful of com meal addetl 



SUfBKIOE BICE WAFFLES — MDSH WAFFLES. 49 

3 eggs beaten separately. 
1 quart of milk. 
1 teacup of water. 
1 teaspoonful of salt. 

Lump of butter large as a walnut, melted and poured in. 
Bake in hot irons. 

One secret of having good waffles is to have the batter thin. 
—Mms B. iS. 

Superior Rice Waffles. 
1 quart flour. 
3 eggs. 

1 cup boiled rice, beaten into the flour. 
1 light teaspoonful suda. 
Make into a batter with buttermilk. Bake quickly in waffle 
irons. Batter made as above and baked on a griddle makes 
excellent breakfast cakes. — Mrs. D. S. IT. 

Rice Waffles. 
1 pint of flour. 
1 pint of new milk. 
The yolks of three eggs. 
Lump of butter the size of an egg. 
Half teacup of boiled rice. 
A pinch of salt and a pinch of soda, sprinkled in the flour 

and sifted with it. 
Beat welL—JIfr*. F. 

Another Recipe for the Same, 
Two gills of rice, mixed with three ounces of butter, three eggs, 
three gills of flour, a little salt, and cream enough to make the 
batter. Beat till very light. — Mrs. Dr. 8. 

Mush Waffles. 

With one pint of milk, make corn mush. When cool, add a 

5 



50 BUEAKFAST CAKES VELVET CAKES. 

tablespoonful of butter, a little salt, and thicken with flour to a 
stiff batter. Bake quickly in irons. — 3Trs. G. L. T. 

Breakfast Cakes. 
In the morning take the dough of a pint of flour. Beat two 
eggs light and mix them with a half pint of milk, then add 
these ingredients to the dough, let it stand an hour to rise, and 
then bake as buckwheat cakes. — Mrs. Dr. J". 

Madison Cakes. 
Two pounds of flour, two eggs, two ounces of lard, three table- 
spoonfuls of yeast. Make up with new milk, the consistency of 
roll dough, at night. Flour the biscuit board and roll out the 
dough in the morning about three quarters of an inch thick, 
cutting the cakes with a dredging-box top. Let them rise, 
covered with a cloth, till fifteen minutes before breakfast. 
—Mrs. L. 

Orange Cakes. 
1 quart of flour. 
1 teacup of butter. 
4 eggs. 

1 tablespoonful of yeast. 
Make into a stiff batter with milk, the over-night. Next 
morning, add a teacup of Indian meal. Beat well and put in 
cups 'jO rise before baking. — Mrs. A. C. 

Velvet Cakes. 
1 quart of flour. 
1 quart of milk. 
1 tablespoonful of yeast. 
1 tablespoonful of melted butter. 
3 eggs. 
Bake in muflin rings. — Mrs. 4. C 



flaunel cakes bnckwheat cakes. 81 

Flannel Cakes. 
1 quart of flour. 
1 pint of meal. 
1 teacup of milk. 

1 teacup of yeast. 
3 eggs. 

2 teaspoonfuls of salt. 

Beat well togsther and let it rise till usual time in a warm 
place. Excellent. — Mrs. W. B. 

A.noiher Menpe for Flannd Gdkes. 

1 quart of flour. 

2 eggs. 

l^pint boiled milk (used cold). 

2 teaspoonfuls of salt. 

3 tablespoonfuls of yeast (added after the other ingredients 

have been, mixed). 
Beat light, and set to rise till morning. 
Bake on a griddle. — Mrs. Dr. J". 

Another Redpe for the Same. 
4 eggs. 

1 quart of milk. 

Half teacup of butter or lard. 

2 tablespoonfuls of yeast. 
1 teaspoonfulof salt. 

Flour to make the batter like pound cake. — Mrs. S. 

Buckwheat Cakes. 
1 quart buckwheat flour. 
1 pint sifted corn meal. 
Half teacup of yeast. 
1 teaspoouful of salt. 
Enough water to make a stifi' batter. 
A.fter rising, stir in a half teacup of butter or lard. Let it 



52 BUOKWHEAr CAKES OKEAM OAKEfi. 

rise a second time, grease the griddle, dip the spoon in lightly, 
and cook quickly. — Mrs. P. W. 

Another Meeipefor Suckwheat Cakes. 
1 pint of buckwheat flour. 
1 tablespoonful of meal. 
1 tablespoonful of yeast. 
1 teaspoonful of salt. 
Make up with water the over-night, and beat till it bubbleu. 
[n the morning beat again, and just before baking stir in a 
pinch of soda dissolved in milk or water. — Mrs. Col. W. 

Buckwheat Cakes. 
1 quart btickwheat flour. 
1 pint wheat flour. 
^ teacup yeast. 
A pinch of salt. 
Make into a batter with warm water. Set to rise. Thin 
the batter with a cup of milk (to make them brown well). 
Add a pinch of soda and bake quickly on a griddle. Butter 
and send to the table hot. — Mrs. D. B. K. 

Another Recipe for the Same. 

1 pint buckwheat. 
\ pint sifted meal. 

2 teaspoonfuls of salt. 

4 tablespoonfuls of yeast. 
1-J- pint lukewarm water. 
Beat well and set to rise till morning. — Mrs. Dr. J". 

Cream Cakes. 
1 pint of flour. 

1 pint of cream (or milk). 

2 eggs, well beaten. 

Lump of butter size of an egg. 



OKEAM OAKBS — BOSTON OEEAM OAKES. 53 

Put the milk and butter on the fire till it boils. Mix and 
bake quickly in pans. Salt to taste. 

A-rwiher Recipe for Crewrn, Cakes. 

1 quart of cream (sour is preferable). 
4 eggs. 

1 teaspoonful of soda. 
1 teaspoonful of salt. 
Flour for a thick batter. — Mrs. G. 

Another Recipe for the Samie. 

1 quart of flour. 
3 eggs. 

1 tablespoonful of lard. 
1 pint of cream. 
1 teaspoonful of salt. 
Bake in tins. — Mrs. A. C. 

Boston Cream Cakes. 

2 cups of flour. 
2 J cups of water. 
1 cup of butter. 
5 eggs. 
Boil the butter and water together, stir in the flour while 
boiling ; after it is cool, add the eggs, well beaten. Put a large 
spoonful in muffin rings, and bake twenty minutes in a hot 
oven. 

The cream for them is made as follows : 
Put over the fire one cup of milk and not quite a cup of 
sugar, one egg, mixed with three teaspoonfuls of corn starch 
and one tablespoonful of butter. Boil a few moments only. 
When cool, add vanilla to the taste. 
Open the cakes and fill them with this cream. — M. H. IK, 



f>i BDTTBHMILK OAB.ES BIOE 0AILE8. 

BUTTBEMILK CaKES. 

1 quart of flour. 

2 eggs, well beaten. 
1^ pint of buttermilk. 
1 teaspoonful of salt. 

Beat very light, after mixing the ingredients. Just before 
baking, stir in a little soda, mixed in a little of the buttermilk. 
Bake on a griddle, free from grease. — Mrs. L. 

Sour Milk Cakes. 
1 pint sour milk. 
1 pint flour. 

Butter size of a small egg. 
1 tablespoonful of sugar. 
1 saltspoonful of salt. 
Half teaspoonful of soda. 
Bake in hot and well greased iron clads. 

Farina Cakes. 
Melt together one pint of milk and one tablespoonful of 
butter. Then add four tablespoonfuls of farina and boil till 
quite thick. Set aside to cool. When ready to bakb, add 
three well beaten eggs, a few spoonfuls of flour, and salt to your 
taste. — Mrs. S. 

Rice Cakes. 
Put one pound of rice in soak the over-night. Boil very 
soft in the morning, drain the water from it and mix with it, 
while hot, a quarter of a pound of butter. After it has cooled, 
add to it one quart of milk, a little salt, and six eggs. Sift 
over it and stir into it gradually a half pound of flour. Beat 
the whole well and bake on a griddle like other batter cakes. — 
Mrs. W. 



KIOE OAKES OLD VIRGINIA BATTER CAKES. 55 

Another Heeipe for Rice Cakes. 
One cup of cold boiled rice, rubbed in a quart of milk, one 
pint of fl()ur, a teaspoonful of salt, two eggs beaten light. 
Beat all till free from lumps. Bake as soon as made, on a well 
greased griddle. 

Batter Cakes. 
Two eggs beaten separately. Pour into the yolks a pint of 
buttermilk, then put in two handfuls of meal and one of flour, 
then the whites of the eggs, half a teaspoonful of soda and a 
little salt. Fry with very little grease, or with egg shells. 
Put two spoonfuls of batter to a cake. — Mrs. 0. L. T. 

Another JRed/pe for Batter Cakes. 
1 quart of flour. 
1 pint of meal. 
1 teaspoonful of soda. 
1 teaspoonful of salt. 
3 eggs. 
Make up with buttermilk. — Mrs. Dr. ,T. 

JBatter Cakes made of Stale Hread. 
Put a loaf of stEiIe bread to stand all day in a pint of milk. 
Just before tea add three eggs and one large spoonful of butter. 
If too thin, add a little flour. — Mrs. M. 

Old Virginia Batter Cakes. 

Beat two eggs very light in a bowl. Add one teacup of 
clabber, one of water, one of com meal, a teacup of flour, one- 
half teaspoonful of salt. Just before baking, sift in half a 
teaspoonful of soda and stir well. It is better to grease the 
gi-iddle with fat bacon than with lard. 

The above proportions will make enough batter cakes for two 
or three persons. — Mrs. S. 2\ 



56 OLD VIEQINIA BA.'rrEE CAKES — BAITEE BEEAD. 

Another Hecipe for the Same. 

1 quart sweet milk. 

1 heaping pint corn meal. 

4 eggs. 

1 teaspoonful of salt. 

Half teaspoonful of soda. 

1 tablespoonful of -warmed butter or fresli lard. 
Break the eggs, whites and yolks together, beat slightly, thee 
add the milk, stir in the meal and beat until it looks light. 
Bake on a giiddle. — Mrs. J". ^. 

Cheap Hedpefor Matter Cakes. 
1 pint of sour milk, 
t teaspoonful of soda. 
1 tablespoonful of flour. 
Enough meal to make a good batter. 
Bake on a hoe. — Miss E. P. 

Indian Gkiddle Cakes. 
1 quart of sour milk. 

1 large tablespoonful of butter, melted after measuring. 

2 eggs. 

1 teaspoonful of soda. 

Half a teaspoonful of salt. 

Make a thin batter, with two-thirds Indian meal, and one- 
third flo\ir. 

A small bag made of coarse but thin linen or cotton, and 
filled with common salt, is much better to rub over the griddle 
than lard, when cakes are to be fried or baked. 

Batter Bread. 

Break two eggs into a bowl. Beat to a stiff froth. Pour in 

one teacup of clabber or butter-milk, one of water, one of com 

meal, one of flour, half teaspoonful of salt, a heaping teaspoonful 

of butter melted. Beat all well together. Have already heated 



BATTER BEBAD — COEN MEAL WAFFLES. 57 

ou the stove or range, irou-clad muflSn moulds (eight or teu in 
a group). Grease them well with a clean rag, dipped in lard. 
Fill each one nearly full with the batter, first sifting in half a 
teaspoonful soda. Set in a hot oven and bake a nice brown. 
Oblong shapes are the nicest. If preferred, sweet milk may be 
used instead of sour milk and water. In this case add another 
egg and dispense with the soda. — 3frs. S. T. 

Batter Bread. 
Four cups of meal, two cups sweet milk, four eggs, two table- 
spoonfuls flour, one tablespoonful lard, one teaspoonful salt, 
haK teaspoonful soda. — Mrs. F. 

Batter Bread. 

One cup meal, one cup sweet milk, one cup butter-milk, two 
eggs, one tablespoonful butter, one ta'blespoonful flour, half 
teaspoonful of salt, and same of soda. 

Bake in cups. — Mrs. G. 

Corn Muffins. 

3 eggs, beaten light. 

1 pint of buttermilk (if very sour, use less). 
1 teacup of cream or milk. 
1 small teaspoonful of soda. 
Lard or butter size of an egg. 
Meal enough to make the batter of the consistency of pound- 
cake batter. — Mrs. I, 

Corn Meal Waffles. 

One pint of corn meal scalded. While hot add to it, two 
tablespoonfuls of lard or butter, three well beaten eggs, a cup of 
boiled rice, a piut of flour, a teaspoonful of salt. 

Thin to the proper consistency with milk. — Mrs. Dr. S. 
3* 



58 

St. Nicholas' Pone. 
1 quart of meal. 
1 quart of milk. 
4 eggs. 
1 tablespoonful of melted butter. 

1 teaspoonful of salt. 

2 teaspoonfuls cream of tartar. 

1 teaspoonful of soda. — Mrs. G. C. 

Gr&ii OR Hominy Beead. 
2 eggs, beaten separately. 
1 pint of milk. 
Small piece of butter. 
Add enough meal and hominy to make a batter, and bake 
quickly.— ilfrs. G. L. T. 

Hominy Bread. 
Mix with two teacups of hot hominy a very large spoonful of 
butter. Beat two eggs very light and stir into the hominy. 
Next add a pint of milk, gradually stirring it in. Lastly, add 
half a pint of corn meal. The batter should be of the consist- 
ency of rich boiled custard. If thicker, add a little more milk. 
Bake with a good deal of heat at the bottom, but not so much 
at the top. Bake in a deep pan, allowing space for rising. 
When done, it looks like a baked batter pudding. — Mrs. 
F. D. 

Corn Cake. 
1 pint of corn meal. 

1 pint of sweet milk. 

2 eggs. 

1 tablespoonful of butter. 

2 tablespoonful s of flour. 
1 teaspoonful of salt. 

Boil the milk and pour it over the meal, flour, and butter. 



MUSH BKEAD OLD-FASHIONED EGG BKEAD. 59 

Beat light. When cool, add eggs well beaten. Bake in a but- 
tered pan. — Mrs. G. W. P. 



Mush Bread. 

Make a thin mush of corn meal and milk (or hot water, if 
milk is scarce). Cook till perfectly done, stirring all the time 
to keep it smooth. Then add a good lump of butter ; and, after 
it cools a little, two eggs, one at a time. Beat in a very small 
pinch of soda and a little salt. 

Butter a yellow dish and bake slowly till brown. — Mrs. 0. 
L. T. 

Light Corn Bread. 
Pour one quart of boiled milk over one pint of corn meal. 
Add a teaspoonful of salt, a teaspoonful of cream of tartar, half 
teaspoonful of soda, three well beaten eggs, four tablespoonfuls 
of flour, a little butter. — Miss E. P. 

Soft Egg Bread. 
1 quart of milk. 
Half pint of meal. 
3 eggs. 

Large spoonful of butter. 
Make in a pudding dish. Rice is an improA'enient to the 
!ibove. — Mrs. P. 

Old-fashioned Egg Bread. 

1 pint of meal. 
.3 eggs well beaten. 
1 teaspoonful of salt. 
1 tablespoonful melted butter. 
Add enough sweet milk to make a rather thin batter. Bake 
quickly. — Mrs. S. T. 



bO OLD-FASHIONBD BGG BEEAD OEAOKLIN BKEAD. 

Another Medpefor Egg Sread. 
1 quart of milk. 
3 eggs. 

1 tablespoonful of butter. . 

1 pint of com meal. 
1 teaspoonful of salt. 
Beat the eggs very light and add to the other ingredients, 
Bake in a pan or dish. Add a little soda dissolved in milk, if 
you desire it. — Mrs. I. S. 

Indian Bread. 
Beat two eggs very light, mix alternately with them one pint 
of sour milk or buttermilk, and one pint of fine corn meal. 
Melt one tablespoonful of butter, and add to the mixture. Dis- 
solve one teaspoonful of soda in a small portion of the milk, 
and add to the other ingredients, last of all. Beat hard and 
bake in a pan, in a hot oven. 

Rice Bread. 
1 pint sweet milk. 

1 teacup boiled rice. 

2 teacups sifted corn meal. 
■^ teacup melted butter. 

3 eggs, beaten separately. 
^ teaspoonful salt. 

Bake in a very hot oven, using buttered iron muffin moulds. 
—Mrs. S. T. 

Cracklin Bread. 
Take one quart sifted com meal and a teacup of cracklins. 
Rub the latter in the meal as fine as you can. Add a tea- 
spoonful of salt and make up with warm water into a stifi 
dough. Make into pones, and eat hot. — Mrs. P. W. 



virginia ash cake — boiled coffee. 61 

Virginia Ash Cake. 

Add a teaspoonful of salt to a quart of sifted corn meal. 
Make up with water and knead well. Make into round, flat 
cakes. Sweep a clean place on the hottest part of the hearth. 
Put the cake on it and cover it with hot wood ashes. 

Wash and wipe it dry, before eating it. Sometimes a cab- 
bage leaf is plajed under it, and one over it, before baking, in 
which case it need not be washed. — Mrs. S. T. 

Plain Corit Eread. 
1 pint sifted meal. 
1 teaspoonful salt. 

Cold water sufficient to make a stiff dough. 
Work well with the hands, pat out in long, narrow pones, 
six or seven inches long and as wide as the wrist. Bake quickly 
in a hot pan. — Mrs. P. W. 



COFFEE, TEA, AND CHOCOLATE. 

To toast Coffee. 

Wash and pick the coffee, put it in a very large stove-pan in 
(I hot oven. Stir often, giving constant attention. It must be 
toasted the darkest brown, yet not one grain must be burned. 
rt should never be glazed, as this destroys the aroma. 

Two pints of coffee become three pints after toasting. — Mrs. 
S. T. 

Boiled Coffee. 
To one quart of boiling water (poured in after scalding the 
pot) stir in three gills of coffee, not ground too fine. Boil 



62 COFFEE. 

twenty minutes, scraping from the sides and stirring occasion 
ally. Five minutes before breakfast, scrape from tlie spout, 
pour out half a teacupful, and return to the pot. Do this a 
second time. Set it with the side of the pot to the fire, so that 
it will be just at the boiling point. Do not let it boil, however. 
Serve in the same coffee-pot. 

Coffee should never be glazed. 

Have a liberal supply of thick, sweet cream, also of boiled 
milk, to serve with the coffee. 

If the members of the family drop in at intervals, it is well 
to keep the coffee over a round iron weight, heated just enough 
to keep the coffee hot, without boiling it. This answers better 
than a spirit lamp for keeping coffee hot. — Mrs. S. T. 

Coffee. 

Take equal quantities of Mocha, Java, Laguayra and Rio 
coffee. Have the coffee roasted a chestnut brown. To every 
twelve cups of coffee to be drawn, use eighteen heaping table- 
spoons of the ground coffee. Have the water boiling hot, scald 
the biggin or percolator, put the ground coffee in the upper 
part, then pour on some boiling water for it to draw — about 
two teacups if you are to make twelve cups of coffee. Let it 
stand a few moments and pour again into the upper part of the 
percolator the first drawn coffee. Then add, one by one, the 
cups of boiling water required. It will take ten minutes for 
the coffee to be ready for the table. 

Use the best white sugar, and in winter let the milk stand 
twenty-four hours for the cream to rise. Use together with 
rich cream, a cream jug of boiling sweet milk. — Mrs. M. 
C. C. 

Coffee. 
Buy Java and Laguayi-a mixed, two-thirds Java and oue- 
third Liguayra, which will give a delightful aroma to the Java. 
Scald the pot. Then put in a teacup of coarsely ground 



DRIPPED OE FILTERED COFFEE GKEEN TEA. 63 

coflfee, parched a light brown and mixed with cold water till it 
forms a paste, to six cups of boiling water. Before you put 
in the boiling water, add to the grounds one or more egg-shells 
or whites of eggs, to keep it clear. Let it boil ten or fifteen 
minutes. Before taking it off the fire, drop in about a teaspoou- 
ful of cold water, which will settle all the floating grounds. — 
Mrs. J. P. 

Dripped or Filtered Coffee. 
If one quart of coflee is desired, grind three gills of coffee, 
put it in the filterer and pour boiling water over it. If not suf- 
ficiently strong, pour out and return to the filterer. Then set on 
the fire and boil up, taking from the fire immediately. — Mrs. 
S. T. 

Dripped Coffee. 
One-half pint Java coft'ee ground and put in the dripper. 
Pour over it two and one-half pints boiling water. If not 
strong enough, pass through the dripper a second time. — Mrs. 
J. S,. McD. 

Caf^ au Lait. 

1 cup German chiccory. 

2 cups ground coffee. 

Pnt in three pints boiling water with a pinch of isinglass, 
boil five minutes and allow it to settle, or, if made in a percola- 
tor it will be better. Use three-quarters of a cup boiling 
milk and one-quarter of strong coffee, with sugar to suit the 
taste.— J/r«. tT. W. S. 

Green Tea. 
Scald the teapot, and add one-half pint boiling water to two 
teaspoonfuls of the best green tea. Set it where it will keep 
hot, but not boil. When it has drawn fifteen or twenty min. 
ntes, add boiling water till it has the strength desired. — Mrs. J 
R. McD. 



()4 GKEEN TEA ICED TEA. 

Green Tea, 
Scald the teapot. If you wish a pint of tea, put in one heap- 
ing teaspoonful tea after putting in a pint boiling water. Set 
this where it will keep hot, but not quite boil. — Mrs. S. T. 

A good Cup of Green Tea. 
Before putting in any water, set the teapot with the tea in it 
before the fire and let it get thoroughly hot. Then fill the pot 
with boiling water and let it stand five minutes. — Mrs. M. E 
L. W. 

Black Tea. 
If you wish a quart of tea, put that quantity of boilinj, 
water into the teapot, after scalding it. Add four teaspoonfuls 
of tea. Boil twenty minutes. It is a great improvement to 
put in a little green tea. — Mrs. S. T. 

Black Tea. 
Add one and one-half pint boiling water to a half-tea- 
cupful of the best black tea. Boil gently for ten or fifteen 
minutes. If too strong, weaken with boUing water. — Mrs. J", 
li. McD. 

Iced Tea. 
After scalding the teapot, put into' it one quart of boiling 
water and two teaspoonfuls green tea. If wanted for supper, 
do this at breakfast. At dinner time, strain, without stirring, 
through a tea-strainer into a pitcher. Let it stand till tea time 
and then pour into decanters, leaving the sediment in the bottom 
of the pitcher. Fill the goblets with ice, put two teaspoonfuls 
granulated sugar in each, and pour the tea over the ice and 
sugar. A squeeze of lemon will make this delicious and 
healthful, as it will correct the astringent tendency. — Mrs. 
S. T. 



chocolate milk and bqtree. 65 

Chocolate. 
Scrape fine one sqTiare of Baker's chocolate (which will be an 
ounce). Put it in a pint of boiling water and milk, mixed in 
equal parts. Boil it ten minutes, and during this time mill it 
or whip it with a Dover egg-whip (one with a wheel), which 
will make it foam beautifully. Sweeten to the taste, at table. — 
Mrs. S. T. 

Cocoa. 
To one pint milk and one pint cold water add three table- 
spoonfuls grated cocoa. Boil fifteen or twenty minutes, mill- 
ing or whipping as directed in foregoing recipe. Sweeten to 
taste, at the table. Some persons like a piece of orange-peel 
boiled with it.— Jfrs. S. T. 

Broma. 

Dissolve one large tablespoonful broma in one tablespoonful 
warm water. Pour on it one pint boiling milk and water (equal 
parts). Boil ten minutes, milling or whipping as above directed. 
Sweeten to the taste. — Mrs. S. T. 

A cream-pitcher of whipped cream should always accompany 
chocolate or any preparation of it, such as cocoa or broma. — 
Mrs. S. T. 



MILK AND BUTTER. 

The most exquisite nicety and care must be observed in the 

management of milk and butter. A housekeeper should have 

frwo sets of milk vessels (tin or earthenware, never stoneware, 

as this is an absorbent). She should never use twice in succes 

6 



66 MILK AND BDTTBE. 

sion the same milk vessels without having them scalded and 
aired. 

In warm weather, sweet milk should be set on ice, if practi- 
cable, or if not, in a spring-house. Never put ice in sweet milk, 
as this dilutes it. One pan of milk should always be set aside 
to raise cream for coffee. A bucket with a close-fitting lid should 
be filled with milk and set aside for dinner, one for supper, one 
for breakfast, and a fourth for cooking purposes. 

For making butter, strain unskimmed milk into a scalded 
churn, where the churning is done daily. This will give sweeter 
butter and nicer buttermilk than when cream is skimmed and 
kept for churning, as this sometimes gives a cheesy taste to the 
butter. Do not let the milk in the churn exceed blood heat. 
If overheated, the butter will be white and frothy, and the milk 
thin and sour. Churn as soon as the milk is turned. In sum- 
mer try to churn early in the morning, as fewer flies are swarm- 
ing then, and the butter can be made much firmer. 

A. stone churn is in some respects more convenient than a 
wooden churn ; but no matter which you use, the most fastidi- 
ous neatness must be observed. Have the churn scalded and 
set out to sun as soon as possible after churning. Use your last 
made butter for buttering bread, reserving the staler for cookery. 

Butter should be printed early in the morning, while it is 
cool. A plateful for each of the three meals should be placed 
in the refrigerator ready for use. Do not set butter in a re- 
frigerator with anything else in it but milk, or in a safe with 
anything but milk. It readily imbibes the flavor of everything 
near it. After churning, butter should be taken up in what is 
called " a piggin," first scalded and then filled with cold water. 
With an old-fashioned butter-stick (scalded) wash and press the 
butter till no water is left. Then add a little salt, finely beaten. 
Beat again in a few hours, and make up in half-pound prints. 
I would advise all housekeepers (even those who do not make 
their own butter) to keep a piggin, a butter-stick, and a pretty 
buttar-print. 



TO BEOrRE NICE BUTTEK FOE THE TABLE IN WINTEE. 67 

To secure nice .Butter for the Table in Winter. 
In October and November, engage butter to be brought 
weekly, fresh from the churn in rolls. Wrap each roll in a 
piece of old table cloth, and put in a sweet firkin or stone jar 
which has been washed with soda water, scalded and sunned 
for a month before using. Pour over it a clear strong brine, 
which also must have been prepared at least a week before- 
hand, by pouring off the settlings and repeated strainings. 
Have a nice flat rock washed and weight the butter down with 
it, being careful to keep it always under the brine. — Mrs. 
S. T. 

Hedpe/or Putting up Sutter 
2 quarts best common salt. 
1 ounce pulverized saltpetre. 
1 ounce white sugar. 
Work the butter over three limes, the last time adding an 
ounce of the above mixture to every pound butter. Of course, 
the butter is salted, when first made. Make the butter into 
rolls and wrap in cloths or pack in jars, within four inches of 
the top of each jar. If the latter is done, fill the jars with 
brine and tie up closely. If the former is preferred, drop the 
rolls into brine, prepared as follows : 

To every gallon brine that will bear an egg, add one pound 
white sugar and one-half ounce saltpetre. Boil well and skim. 
Keep the brine closely covered. I have used butter on my 
table in May, put up in this way, and it tasted as well as when 
put up in October. — Mrs. Ji. C. 

Clabber. 
To have clabber in perfection, place in small glass dishns or 
bowls enough milk to make clabber for each person. Afiet it 
has turned, set it in the refrigerator, if in summer, till called 
for. By the way, refrigerators (as well as water- coolers) should 
be washed every morning with water in which a tablespoonfnl 



68 COTTAGE CHEESE — SOUP. 

of cumiuon soda has been dissolved. They shouUi then be aired 
before filling with ice for the day. — Mrs. S. T. 

Cottage Cheese. 
When the tea-kettle boils, pour the water into a pan of " lop- 
pered " milk. It will curd at once. Stir it and turn it into a 
colander, pour a little cold water over it, salt it and break it 
up. A better way is to put equal parts of buttermilk and 
thick milk in a kettle, over the fire, heat it almost boiling hot, 
pour into a linen bag and let it drain till next day. Then take 
it out, salt it, put in a little cream or butter, as it may be thick 
or not, and make it up into balls the size of an orange. 



SOUP. 
As making soup is a tedious process, it is best to make 
enough at once to last several days. Beef shank is most gen- 
erally used in making nutritious soup. It is best to get this 
the day before using it, and soak it all night in cold, clear water. 
If you cannot do this, however, get it as early in the morning 
as you can. Break the bones, wash it, soak it a few minutes in 
weak salt and water, and put it in a large boiler of cold water. 
As soon as it begins to simmer, remove the dark scum that 
rises on top. Keep the boiler closely covered, and boil very 
slowly till an hour or two before dinner. Then, with a ladle, 
remove all the fat from the top, as it is this element that makes 
soup unwholesome. Strain and season, or, if you prefer, season 
just enough for one meai, reserving the rest as foundation for 
another sort of soup. It is well always to keep some of this 
stock on hand in cold weather, as by the addition of a can of 
tomatoes, or other ingredients, a delicious soup may be quickly 
made of it. Never throw away water in which any sort of meat 



OYSTER SOUP ECONOMICAL OYSTEE SOUP. 69 

has been boiled, as it is much better to simmer hash or a stew 
in this liquor than in water, and it is also invaluable for bast- 
ing fowls or meats that have not been parboiled. 

Directions for soup making are so fully given in the follow 
ing pages that it is needless for me to say anything further on 
the subject here. 

Oyster Soup. 

100 oysters. 

1 teaspoonful salt. 

1 tablespoonful black pepper. 

^ pound butter. 

Yolks of 3 eggs. 

1 pint rich milk, perfectly fresh. 

3 tablespoonfuls flour. 
Separate the oysters from the liquor : put the liquor to boil, 
when boiled add salt, pepper and butter, then the flour, having 
previously made it into a batter. Stir all the time. When it 
comes to a boil, add the eggs well beaten, then the milk, and 
when the mixture reaches a boil, put in the oysters ; let them 
also just boil, and the soup is done. Stir all the time to pre- 
vent curdling. — Mrs. Judge M. 

Economical Oyster Soup. 

1 quart oysters. 

2 quarts water. 

Boil with salt and pepper. 

Cut up one tablespoonful butter with flour and put in while 
boiling ; beat the yolks of four eggs light, mix them with one- 
half pint milk. 

When the oysters are well cooked, pour on the milk and eggs, 
stirring all the time. Let it boil up, and take off quickly, and 
pour into the tureen, over toasted bread cut into dice — if 
preferred rich, leave out some of the water.-— J/r/j. Li, 
Gov.M. 



70 oyster soup — fur&e of 0tstee8. 

Oyster Soup. 

Empty tho oysters into a colander and drain off all the liquor ; 
then strain the liquor through a very coarse cloth to rid it of 
all scum, etc. To a whole can of oysters take a quart of milk 

Put the milk, oyster liquor, one level tablespoonful flour 
rubbed very smooth with one heaping tablespoonful of butter, 
one tablespoonful salt, one-half teaspoonful pepper, all on tho 
fire together in a farina-boiler (or put a skillet one-third filled 
with boiling water under the saucepan, to prevent the milk 
burning). When it comes to a boil, put in the oysters and let 
them stew for twenty minutes or till the gill of the oyster turns 
and begins to ruflBe and crimp at the edge. Servo immediately, 
for if they are cooked too long, they become hard, dark and 
tasteless. If you put the salt in last, it will not curdle the 
soup. Some add one level teaspoonful whole cloves and same 
of mace, tied up in a net bag, but they are little improvement. — 
Mrs. R. 

PuR^E OF Oysters. 
For fifty oysters. 

Put the oysters on in their own liqu.oi' — let them come to a 
boil — take them out and mince them ; skim the liquor whcu 
nearly done. Beat well together : 
1 egg. 

1 dessertspoonful butter. 
^ pint milk. 
1 cracker sifted. 

Salt, pepper (mace, also, if liked). 
Pour this into boiling liquor and then add the minced oys- 
ters. When done, the soup is smooth. The milk must bi 
fresh or it will curdle. — Mrs. John Walker, Alabama. 

Oyster Soup. 
Take two quarts of oysters, wash them, and add, 
2 quarts water. 



TCTETLB SOUl'. 71 

A bundle of herbs. 

1 small onion sliced. 

Let it boil until all the substance is Dut of the oysters 
Strain the liquor from the ingredients and put it back in the 
pot. Add a large sjjoonful butter mixed with flour. Have 
ready two dozen oysters to throw in just as it is ready to be 
dished — at the same time stir up two yolks of eggs \«itli a 
cup of cream. Cayenne pepper is an improvement. — Mrs. 
E. W. 

Turtle Soup. 

Kill the turtle at daylight in summer, the night before in 
winter, and hang it up to bleed. After breakfast, scald it well 
and scrape the outer skin off the shell ; open it carefully, so as 
not to break the gall. Break both shells to pieces and put 
them into the pot. Lay the fins, the eggs and some of the 
more delicate parts by — ^put the rest into the pot with a quan- 
tity of water to suit the size of your family. 

Add two onions, parsley, thyme, salt, pepper, cloves and all- 
spice to suit your taste. 

About half an hour before dinner thicken the soup with 
brown flour and butter rubbed together. An hour before din- 
ner, take the parts laid by, roll them in brown flour, fry them 
in butter, put them and the eggs in the soup ; just before dinner 
add a glass of claret or Madeira wine. — Mrs. iV. 

Twrtle Sowp. 
To one turtle that will weigh from four to five pomivls, after 
being dressed, add one-half gallon water, and boil until the 
turtle will drop to pieces, then add : 

2 tablespoonfuls allspice. 

1 tablespoonful black pepper. 

2 tablespoonfuls butter, and salt to the taste. 
When nearly done, put in a small handful pot marjoram, 

thyme and parsley tied together, and two large onions ; when 



7S? TUKTLE SOUP MOOK-XUKTJiJj; SOUP— OLAM SOUP. 

ready to come oflF, add two sliced lemons, one pint good wine, 
and a small quantity of cui'i-y powder ; thicken with flour. — 
Mrs. D. 

Twrtle Soup. 

To 2^ quarts soup add : 

1 ounce mace. 

1 dessertspoonful allspice. 

1 teaspoonful cloves. 

Pepper, black and cayenne, and salt to your taste. 
Tie up a bunch of parsley, thyme, and onion in a cloth, and 
throw into soup when boiling. When nearly done, thicken with 
two tablespoonfuls flour. To give it a good color, take one 
tablespoonful brown sugar and burn it ; Vhen burnt, add a wine- 
glass of water. Of this coloring, put two tablespoonfuls in 
soup, and just before serving, add half a pint Madeira wine. — 
Miss U. W. 

Mock Turtle Soup. 

Put on beef and boil very tender ; take out, chop fine, and 
put back to boil. Put potatoes, mace, cloves, cinnamon, 
parsley, thyme, spice, celery seed, and ten hard-boiled eggs ; 
pepper and salt to your taste. 

Thicken with flour and add brandy and wine. — Miss E. P. 

Mock Terrapin Soup. 

Cut up two pounds roast or boiled beef in small pieces. Put 
one large teacup new milk, one large teacup of wine, a piece of 
butter size of an egg (rolled in flour), a little nutmeg, two or 
three spoonfuls mixed mustard — all in a stewpan, and cook 
ten or fifteen minutes. Good way to use up cold meats. — Mrs. 
S.M. 

Clam Soup. 

Boil half a peck of clams fifteen minutes ; then take them 
from the shells, clean and wash them. Have ready the stew- 



CLAM SOUP — OEAB SOUP. 73 

kettle ; strain the water, in which clams have been boiled ; 
chop up clams, and put in with three or four slices of salt pork, 
some mashed potatoes, salt and pepper to taste. Thicken with 
grated cracker, and add two spoonfuls butter rolled in flour. 
Let it boil twenty minutes and serve. — Mrs. C. 

Clam Soup. 
Open the clams and chop them up fine. To twenty clams, 
add: 

^ gallon water. 
3 good onions. 
2 tablespoonfuls butter. 
A small biyich of parsley and thyme. 
Just before taking off, add one quart rich milk and thicken 
with flour. — Mrs. D. 

Crab Soup. 

Open, and cleanse of the deadman's fingers and sandbag 
twelve small fiit crabs raw. Cut the crabs into two parts. 
Parboil and extract the meat from the claws, and simply 
extract the fat from the back shells of the crabs. Scald 
eighteen ripe tomatoes, skin them and squeeze the pulp from 
the seeds through a colander. Chop them fine and pour boiling 
water over the seeds and juice, and strain theiri. Stew a short 
time in the soup-pot one large onion, one clove of gai-lic, in one 
spoonful bxitter and two spoonfuls lard, and put them in the 
tomatoes. 

After stewing a few minutes, add the meat from the claws, 
then the crabs, and lastly the fat from the back shells. Season 
with salt, cayenne and black pepper, parsley, sweet mai-joram 
and thyme, one-half teaspoonful lemon juice, and peel of one 
lemon. Pour in the water with which the seeds were scalded, 
adding more should there not be the quantity of soup required. 
Boil moderately one hour. About a quarter of an hour before 
serving, sift in grated bread crumbs or pounded craclcei's as a 



74 TO PREPAEE A BEEF's HEAD AS STOCK FOB SOUP. 

thickening. Any firm fish prepared by this recipe is excellent. 
—Mrs. J. I. 

Crab Soup. 

One dozen crabs to one gallon water. Take off +op shell ; 
clear body of crabs. Cut through the middle, put them into a 
kettle, mix with some butter, and brown them. Then add one 
gallon water, and simmer for half an hour. Skim slightly, and 
add the hock of an old ham, and strained tomato juice one 
pint. Boil two hours. Season with pepper, spice if liked, and 
half-pint wine. 

The claws are to be cracked and divested of the jaws. A. 
Hampton recipe. — Miss E. TPi 

Beef Soup. 
Crack the bone of a shin of beef, and put it on to boil in one 
quart water. To every pound meat add one large teaspoonful 
salt to each quart water. Let it boil two hours and skim it 
well. Then add : 

4 turnips, pared and cut into quarters. 
4 onions, pared and sliced. 
2 carrots, scraped and sliced. 
1 root of celery, cut into small pieces. 
When the vegetables are tender, add a little parsley chopped 
fine, with salt and pepper to the taste. Serve hot. — Mrs. P. 
McG. 

Another JRedpe for JBeef Soup. 
One shin beef in one-half gallon water, put on before break- 
fast and boiled until dinner. Thicken with brown flour two 
or three hours before dinner. Put in one carrot, two turnips, 
one onion, thyme, cabbage, and celery-seed. — Mrs. IT. P. C. 

To prepare a Beefs Head as Stock for Soup. 
Cut up the head into small pieces, and boil in a large quantity 
of water until it is all boiled to pieces. Take out all the bones 



calf's head 80TJP. 76 

as for souse cheese, and boil again until thick. Then while hot, 
season very highly with pepper, salt, catsup, allspice, and onions 
chopped fine. 

Put into a mould to get cold. For a small family cut a thick 
slice, say five inches square, whenever you want soup in a 
hurry, adding about a quart of water. It need cook for a few 
minutes only, and is valuable as keeping well and being ready 
in times of emergency. By adding a few slices of hard-boiled 
egg and a gill of good cooking wine, this soup may have very 
nearly the flavor of mock turtle. — Mrs. A. M. D. 

Calf's Head Soup. 
Take one-half liver and the head of a mutton, veal or beef, 
and boil until the meat drops from the bone. Cut up fine and 
add one-half the brains ; then : 
1 onion. 

1 spoonful spice. 
^ spoonful cloves. 

1 spoonful black pepper and a piece of mace. 
3 tablespoonfuls flour. 

3 tablespoonfuls flour, and salt to the taste. 
Put in enough water at first, as adding it makes the soup thin. 
Cut up three hard boiled eggs, and add, when done, one glass 
of wine. 

A little brandy and walnut catsup, with more eggs, wUl 
improve it, though it is a delightful soup as it is. — Mrs. W. 
A. 0. 

Golfs Head Sovp. 
Clean the head, laying aside the brains. Put the head in a 
gallon of water, with pepper and salt. Boil to pieces and take 
out bones ; return to the pot with — 

1 teacup of mushroom or tomato catsup. 
1 teaspoouflil allspice. 
1 lemon rind, grated. 



76 calf's head soup. 

1 grated nutmeg. 
1 tablespoonful butter. 
1 teacuij of browned flour. 
Fry, and add the brains when nearly ready for the tabln. 
About five minutes before serving, add : 
1 teacup of wine. 
1 teaspoonful cloves. 
1 teaspoonful mace. 
When sent to the table have two hard-boiled eggs sliced and 
floating on top. — Mrs. tT. D. 

Golfs Head Soup. 
Take a large calf s head and boil it with four gallons water 
and a little salt ; when tender, bone and chop it fine, keeping 
out the brains, and put the meat back in the pot and boil down 
to a tureenful. Half an hour before serving the soup, add : 
1 tablespoonful mustard. 
1 teaspoonful black pepper. 
1 teaspoonful powdered cloves. 
1 teaspoonful mace. 
1 teaspoonful nutmeg. 
Brown a cup of flour to thicken and just as the soup ia 
dished, add one cup walnut catsup, and one cup port or claret 
wine. 

The brains must be beaten up with an egg, fried in little 
cakes, and dropped in the tureen. — Miss iV. 

Calf's Head Soup. 
Take the head, split it open and take out the brains ; then 
put the head, brains, and haslet in salt water — let them soak 
one hour. Put on to boil at eight o'clock; after boiling four 
hours, take it up and chop up the head and haslet, removing all 
the bones ; return to the soup, with a small pod of pepper. 
Thicken it with one pint browned flour with one tablespoonful 
butter rubbed in it. Have — 



BEOWN calf's head SOUP— -CAXF'S HEAD SOUP, Ti 

1 tablespoonful mace. 
1 tablespoonful allspice. 
^ doz. cloves. 
Beat all together and put in the tureen with, 
1 teacup of tomato catsup. 

1 teacup of cooking wine. 

Pour the soup on them. Have the brains fried, and t"fto 
hard boiled eggs sliced and dropped in the soup. — J!frs. T. O. 

Brown Calf's Head Sowp. 
Scald and clean the head, and put it to boil in two gallons 
water, with 

A shank of veal. 

2 carrots. 

3 onions. 

A small piece of bacon. 
A bunch of sweet herbs. 

When they have boiled half an hour, take out the head and 
shank, and cut all the meat off the bone in pieces two inches 
square. Let the soup boil half an hour longer, then strain it 
and put in the meat, and season with salt, black and cayenne 
pepper (and a few cloves, if you like them). Thicken witJi 
butter and brown flour. 

Let it now boil nearly an hour longer, and just before serv- 
ing it, stir in one tablespoonful sugar browned in a frying-pan, 
and half a pint wine. A good substitute for turtle soup. — Mrf. 
Col. A. F. 

Calf's Sead Soup. 

Have a head nicely cleaned, the brains taken out and the 
nead put to -soak. Put it on with. 
1 gallon water. 
1 piece of fat ham. 
Thyme, parsley, pepper and salt. 



78 OX-TAIL SOUP — CHICKEN SOUP. 

Boil together until the flesh is tender : take out and chop — 
strain the water — two tablespoonfuls brown flour, four ounceE 
butter — returning the " dismembered " fragments ; let it boil 
till reduced to two quarts. Season with one-half pint wine, 
one gill catsup, nutmeg, mace, allspice. 

Cut up the liver, and fry ; beat the brains up with an egg, 
pepper and salt ; fry in cakes and lay in the soup when served 
up, and hard boiled eggs sliced up and put in. — Miss S. L. 

Ox-tcnl Soiip, 
Wash and soak three tails ; pour on them one gallon cold 
water ; let them be brought gradually to boil, throw in one and 
a half ounce salt, and clear oflF the scum carefully as soon as it 
forms on the surface. When it ceases to rise, add : 
4 moderate sized carrots. 
2 or 3 onions. 
1 large bunch savory herbs. 

1 head celery. 

2 turnips. 

6 or 8 cloves, and -J- teaspoonful peppercorns. 
Stew these gently from three hours to three and a half 
hours. If the tails be very large, lift them out, strain the 
liquor and strain off all the fat. Cut the meat from the tails 
and put it in two quarts or more of the stock. Stir in, when 
this begins to boil, a thickening of arrow-root or of rice flour, 
mixed with as much cayenne and salt as may be required to 
flavor the soup, and serve very hot. — Mrs. J*. 

Chicken Soup. 
Put on the chicken? with about three quarts water and some 
thin slices bacon. Let it boil well, then put in : 
A spoonful butter. 
1 pint milk. 
1 egg, well beaten. 
Pepper, salt, and celery or celery-seed or parsley. 



ROAST VEAL AND CHIOKEN-BONE ROUP — OKEA SOUP. 79 

Let all boil up. Some dumplings made Uke biscuits are verj 
nice in it. — Mrs. W. 

JRoast Veal and Chicken-hone Soup. 
Boil the veal and chicken bones with vegetables, and add one 
handful maccaroni, broken up fine. Boil the soup half an 
hour. Color with a little soy or catsup. — Mrs. S. 

Chicken Sorwp. 
Put on the fire a pot with two gallons water and a ham bone, 
if you have it ; if not, some slices of good bacon. Boil this two 
hours, tlien put in the chickens and boil until done : add one- 
half pint milk and a little thickening ; pepper and salt to the 
taste. After taking ofiF the soup, put in a piece of butter size 
of an egg. Squirrel soup is good made the same way, but takes 
much longer for a squirrel to boil done. — Mrs. P. W. 

GiBLET Soup. 
1 pint dried green English peas. 
1 pound giblets. 
1 dozen cloves. 
1 small piece red pepper. 
Nearly 1 gallon water. 
Boil peas slowly seven hours. Add giblets, spices, and salt tc 
taste, two hours before dinner. When peas are dissolved, strain 
tlirough sieve ; cut giblets into dice and return to soup ; boil up 
and serve. Will be enough for six or eight persons. — Mrs. 
It R. 

Oksa Soup. 
1-^ gallons water. 

2 quarts young okra, cut very fine. 
2 quarts tomatoes. 
Onions, prepared as for pea soup. 
Pepper; salt. 
1 large spoonful butter. 



80 OmiBO SOUP FINE VEGETABLE SOUP. 

Add the tomatoes about twelve o'clock. Put the soup on 
early in the morning. — Mrs. I. 

GrUMBo Soup. 
1 fried chicken. 
1 quart okra, cut up. 
1 onion. 

1 bunch parsley. 
Few celery tops — fry all together. Put in one quart skinnec 

tomatoes. 
I^ gallons water, boil to \ gallon. 
Teacup of wine after taking from the fire. — Mrs. R. A. 

Gvmho Sov^. 

Fry two fowls, old or young, with parsley, pepper, salt, 
onion, lard or bacon. 

Put it in the pot with water sufficient for the soup. One 
quart sliced okra, scrap of ham or fried sausage to boil with it. 

Sassafras Gumbo is made in the same way, except after the 
fowl has boiled until the flesh has left the bone, just before taking 
off the fire, stir in one tablespoonful sassafras flour. Oysters 
are a great improvement to sassafras gumbo. Gather the sassar 
fras leaves green, and dry in the shade, as sage ; when thoroughly 
dry, rub through a sieve and bottle and coik tightly. It is 
nice in beef soup instead of okra. — Mrs. T. 

Fine Vegetable Soup. 
Put on two pounds of fresh beef, or a good-sized chicken, or 
ham bone if you have it, early in the morning. Put your boiler 
on filled with water. Keep boiling, and when boiled down, 
about one hour or more before dinner, add : 
Grated lemon peel. 
6 ears com. 
1 dozen good tomatoes. 



VEGKTABLE 80UP. 81 

Beans. 

1 small head of cabbage. 

A few Irish potatoes. 

Sweet herbs, pepper and salt to the taste. 
A few leaves of dried sassafras rubbed up will improve the 
taste. Serve hot with toast, a small quantity of sugar and 
vinegar. Boil till thick. — Mrs. Dr. L. 

Vegetable Soup. 

Before breakfast, wash a beef shank in several waters, break 
the bone, and put it in a large pot of cold water. Keep it 
steadily boiling until one hour before dinner, when the follow- 
ing vegetables, previously prepared, must be added to the soup 
after it has been carefully skimmed of all grease, and strained. 

1 quart peeled and chopped tomatoes. 

1 pint lima or butter beans. 

1 pint grated corn. 

1 pint chopped cabbage. 

1 pint sliced Irish potatoes. 

1 sliced turnip. 

1 carrot. 

A little minced onion. 

Parsley. 

1 tablespoonful pepper sauce. 

1 heaping tablespoonful flour rubbed into — 

1 teacup milk. 

1 teacup brown sugar. 

1 teaspoonfnl black pepper. 

Boil an hour: thicken with mixed milk and flour, and serve. 

A piece of middling, bacon, or any other kind of meat, may be 

uised instead of the beef shank. The best meat of the shank 

may be freed from gristle, chopped fine and made into a nice 

stew by adding 

1 grated turnip. 

1 mashed potato. 



82 TOMATO sour. 

1 tablespoonful pepper sauce. 
1 tablespoonful made mustard. 
1 tablespoonful butter. 
1 teaspoonful celery seed. 
1 teasjioonful fruit jelly. 
1 teacup milk. 
Minced onion and parsley. 
Boil up and serve. — Mrs. S. T. 

Tomato Soup. 
Take one quart ripe tomatoes, peeled and chopped up, or a 
three-pound can of same, put in an earthenware baking dish 
with 

1 pint grated com (or, if in winter, dried com prepared as il 

for the table), and add — 
1 teacup sugar. 
1 teacup grated cracker. 
1 teacup butter. 

1 teaspoonful black pepper. 

2 teaspoonfuls salt. 

Set this in a hot oven with a tin plate over it to prevent 
browning. Have ready, in a porcelain kettle or pan, two 
quarts new milk boiling hot. When the tomatoes and com are 
thoroughly done, stir in one large Irish potato mashed smooth, 
a little minced onion and parsley, and pour into the boiling 
milk and serve. — Mrs. S. T. 

Tomato S<ywp. 

A shin of bee^ season to your taste with all kinds of vegeta- 
bles: 

Tomatoes, turnips, carrots, potatoes, cabbage cut fine, corn, 
butter beans and celery. 

When nearly done, take vegetables out and mash them well, 
and also cut the beef up fine. It is best to season with salt and 



OLEA.R TOMATO SOUP — PEA SOUP. 83 

peppor when yon first put it on. The beef should be put on 
very early. — Mrs. %r. L. 

Clear Tomato Soup. 

1 large can tomatoeii. 

1 beef shin. 

1 bunoh soup herbs. 

1 gallon water. 
Boil eight hours, stir and skim several times. .Strain through 
wire sieve, add one tablespoonful Worcester sauce and same of 
brown sugar. Serve with dice of toasted bread ; pepper and 
salt to taiste. — Mrs. H. R. 

Asparagus Soup. 
Cut the asparagus into small pieces and put on to boil in salt 
water, with slices of middling ; just before dinner, taking it off, 
beat four eggs and stir in one pint milk or cieam, a piece of 
butter. A piece of veal may be boiled with it, if you wish 
meat. — Mrs. H. 

Asparagus Soup. 
Parboil the asparagus with as much water as will cover 
them ; then pour the water and asparagus into milk, then add 
butter, pepper and salt, also bread crumbs, and boil until the 
asparagus is done. — Mrs. S. 

Pea Soup. 

Soak one pint of split peas in water for twelve hours ; drain 
off the water, put the peas into a saucepan with three pints 
cold water, one-half pound bacon, two sprigs of dried mint, a 
bay leaf, some parsley, an onion stuck with one or two cloves, 
some whole pepper, and salt to taste. 

Let the whole boil three hours, then pass the puree througli 
a hair sieve ; make it hot again and serve with dice of bread 
fried in butter. — Mrs. A. 



84 geeen pea soup — potato bodp. 

Gkeen Pea Soup. 

Boil one quart peas in two quarts water, and two thin slices 
bacon. When done mash through a colander ; then put back 
in the same water, throwing away the slices of bacon. Season 
with pepper, salt, spoonful butter rolled in flour. 

Boil well again. Toast some, bread and cut in slices, and put 
in the tureen when the soup is served. The hulls of green peas 
will answer ; boil them well with a few peas, then season as above 
and boil. Two hours will be enough to boil green pea soup. — 
Mrs. W. 

Green Pea Soup. 

Boil half a peck of peas in one and a half gallons water, till 
perfectly done. Take out, mash and strain through a colander, 
then pour a little of the water well boiled over them, to sepa 
rate the pulp from the hull. Return it to the water they were 
boiled in ; chop up one large or two small onions ; fry them in 
smallest quantity of lard, not to brown them. Add this with 
chopped thyme, parsley, pepper and salt. 

Just before taking off the fire stir in one tablespoonful butter. 
If the soup is too thin, cream a little butter with flour to 
thicken. — Mrs. I. 

Potato Soup. 

Mash potatoes, pour on them one teacup cream, one large 
spoonful butter. 

Pour boiling water on them till you have the desired quantity. 
Boil until it thickens ; season with salt, parsley, and pepper to 
your taste. — Mrs. H. E. 

Potato Sowp. 
Pour two quarts water on six or seven large peeled potatoes, 
adding two or three slices of middling ; boil thoroughly done. 
Take them out, mash the potatoes well and return all to the 



OYSTERS AND OTHKE SIIKLL FISH STEWED OYSTERS. 85 

same water, together with pepper, salt, one spoonful butter, and 
one quart milk, as for chicken soup. — Mrs. W. 



OYSTERS AND OTHER SHELL FISH. 

Stewed Oysters. 
Put butter, salt and pepper in a stew-pan, and put the oysters 
to the butter and stew until perfectly done. — 3Irs. D. 

Stewed Oysters. 
Take one-quarter pound nice butter, put it in a pan and melt, 
then pepper and salt, add a small piece of cheese. When it is 
all melted add one pint of oyster liquor, and boil ; when hot, 
strain and put back in pan, then add oysters and boil five min- 
utes.— Jlfr. K. N. 

Stewed Oysters. 
Pour into a stew-pan \ gallon oysters, 
2 tablespoonfuls pepper vinegar. 
1 teaspoonful black pepper. 
1 teaspoonful salt. 
Let them simmer until the oysters are plump ; take them out 
with a fork and drop them into a tureen, on a handful of crack- 
ers and three heaping tablespoonfuls fresh buttei-. 

Pour one pint milk to the liquor, let it boil up and strain it 
on the oysters. Rinse out the stew-pan and pour the oysters, 
liquor, etc., back into it, and set it on the fire. When it comea 
to a boil, serve. 

This method deprives the oysters of the bits of shell. — Mrg 
8. T. 



86 TO STEW OYSTEES SCALLOPED OYSTKK8. 

Xh Stew Oysters. 

Put into the kettle one pint liquor, one-half pound butter, 
and pepper. 

Let it boil, then put in the oysters, after draining them in a 
colander. They will be done as soon as they boil up, or when 
they curl right well. When ready to take up, add half tea- 
cup cracker crumbs and a little salt in the stew. — Mrs. P. W. 

To Stew Oysters. 

Put into a shallow stew-pan the oysters. As soon as the gills 
begin to open pour off all the liquor. Continue to cook them, 
stirring all the time until done. The liquor that was poured 
off must be thickened with a good lump of butter rubbed up 
with flour, and seasoned with pepper and salt, and poured boil- 
ing-hot onto the oysters. 

The advantage of this way of cooking is that the oysters 
become large and plump. — Mrs. Dr. E. R. 

To Cook Oysters. 

^ gallon oysters. 

1 quart fresh milk. 

^ pound butter. 

1 tablespoonful flour. 

1 teaspoonful salt. 

1 teaspoonful pepper. 

1 egg. 

Hub the egg and Hour together and tlun with a little of the 

milk. Mix the oysters, pepper and salt, and let them come to 

a boil ; then add the milk, and when this boils add the egg and 

flour with the butter. Let the whole boil three minutes. — Miss 

n: s. z. 

Scalloped Oysters. 
Do not drain the liquor from the oysters, but fork them out 
of it a.s you use them ; in that way as much liquor as you re- 



SCALLOPED OYSTEKS. 87 

quire adheres to them. Use stale bread, and do not crumb it 
too fine, or it will be clammy. 

^ teacupful cream. 

2 great spoonfuls butter. 

Salt and pepper. 
Oysters part with a great deal of moisture in cooking, and if 
the mixture is too wet it is not as good ; it should be rather dry 
when done. Cover the bottom of a well-buttered dish with a 
layer of very dry bread crumbs, dust over a little salt and pep- 
per, and stick little bits of butter all over the cx-umbs ; then, 
with a spoon, moisten it with cream. Next, place a layer of 
oysters, alternating with bread crumbs, until the dish is filled, 
finishing with butter and cream; invert a plate over it to keep 
in the flavor. Bake three-quarters of an hour, or until the 
juice bubbles to the top. Remove the plate, and brown on the 
upper shelf of the oven for two or three minutes only. — Mrs. R. 

Scalloped Oysters. 
Those who are fond of oysters prepared in this way will find 
them much more delicate when cooked entirely by reflected 
heat. Have your tinner make you an old-fashioned " tin-kit- 
chen " with sloping sides. Take small oblong dishes, such as 
are in general use at hotels, fill them with alternate layers of 
oysters and rolled crackers, and lay lumps of fresh butter liber- 
ally on top of each dish. Arrange them in the " kitchen," set 
the open dish in front of a bright fire or very warm grate, and 
in fifteen or twenty minutes you will find the oysters delicious. 
—Mrs. B. P. 

Scalloped Oysters. 

Put on the oysters with just enough liquor to keep from 

burning, and parboil slightly. Season the rest of the liquor as 

for stewed oysters with butter, pepper, salt, and a little flour, 

and boil until done. Put the parboiled oysters in a baking- 



88 OYSTKRS SCALLOPED IN THE SHELL ^DEVILLED. 

dish, with a piece of butter and a grated cracker or stale bread 
and pepper, and pour as much of the gravy as the dish will 
hold. Put a little of the grated cracker on top, and set it in the 
ovon to brown. — Mrs. Wi 

Oysters Scalloped in the Shell. 

Open the shells, setting aside for use the deepest ones. Have 
ready some melted butter, not hot, seasoned with minced pats- 
ley and pepper. 

Roll each oyster in this, letting it drip as little as may be, 
and lay in the shell, which should be arranged in a baking-pan. 

Add to each a little lemon juice, sift bread crumbs over it, 
and bake in a quick oven till done. Serve in the shells. — Mrs. S. 

Scalloped Oysters. 

Put in the scallop shells as many oysters as each will hold, 
fcjeason with butter, salt and pepper ; a few bread crumbs. 

Cook v;ntil well done ; add a piece of butter just before they 
are served. — Mrs. H. L. 0. 

Devilled Oysters. 

Put a layer of raw oysters in a pan, and then a layer of bread- 
crumbs, black and red jiepper, salt, butter, mustard, and a little 
vinegar mixed together. 

Put alternate layers of each until full, and then bake. — 

Mrs. Duke. 

DevUled Oysters. 

Drain one quart oysters ; chop thoroughly and season with 
cayenne pepper, lemon-juice, salt, and yolks of two hard-boiled 
eggs, and yolks of two raw eggs beaten and stirred in ; one-half 
as much bread crumbs as you have oysters, and one large, table- 
spoonful butter. 

Have ready one dozen deep shells, nicely cleaned, and fill 
them with the oysters ; sprinkle with bread crumbs, and bake 
in a few minutes. — Mrs. H. S. 



TO COOK OYSTERS — TO FKY OYSTEKS. 89 

To Cook Oysters. 
Put into a baking-bowl a layer of cracker-crumbs, pepper, and 
butter. If the butter is salty do not use any salt. Then a 
layer of oysters, after they have been drained from their liquor ; 
do this alternately till the dish is full. Be sure and put the 
cracker crumbs at the top of the dish, and bits of butter, also 
pepper : this makes it brown nicely. Set it in a hot oven ; as 
soon as browned it will be ready for the table. — Mrs. P. W. 

Fried Oysters. 
Take each oyster separately and put salb and pepper on them; 
then roll them in equal portions of meal and flour. Fry them 
in hot lard until a light brown. — Mrs. 1). 

Oyster Fritters. 
Beat two eggs very light; then stir in two tablespoonfula 
cream or milk, three tablespoonfuls sifted flour, a pinch of 
salt ; dip the oysters in this and fry them in hot lard. — Mrs. JB. 

Oyster Fritters. 

Wipe the oysters dry. Beat 6 eggs light, and stir into them : 
6 tablespoonfuls flour. 
1^ pint rich milk. 
Beat to smooth batter. Have in a pan some butter and lard ; 
when it begins to froth, put a small ladleful of the batter, with 
an oyster in the middle, into it to fry. If too thin, add flour ; 
if too thick, milk. — Mrs. H. 

To Fry Oysters. 

Drain the oysters through a sieve ; sprinkle a little salt and 

pepper over them. Dip each oyster into meal. Have the pan 

hot, and drop in an equal portion of lard and butter; when 

boiling, put in the oysters and fry. Do not let them stand^ 

but serve hot. — Mrs. E. 

8 



9c fried oysters — steamed oysters. 

Fried Oysters. 
Drain the oysters through a sieve. Beat up two cr three 
eggs. Have ready some grated bread crumbs. Sprinkle some 
salt and a little pepper over the oysters ; then dip each oyster 
into the egg and bread crumbs. Have the pan hot and clean ; 
put equal portions of butter and lard into the pan. Be ■careful 
to keep the fat of oysters from burning. — Mrs. R. 

To Fry Oysters. 
Wash them and dry them on a clean napkin ; dip in beaten 
egg and pounded crackers sifted, and let them lie several hours 
before frying, and they will not shrink. — Mrs. P. 

To Fry Oysters. 
Drain the oysters dry. Three eggs beaten, and grated 
crackers. Dip the oyster first in the egg and then in the 
crackers ; do this twice. G-rease the pan with butter or lard. 
Add pepper and salt to taste, and fry. — Mrs. P. W. 

Clam, or Oyster Fritters. 
Chop up the clam very fine (when of oysters, leave them 
whole) ; put them in a batter and fry them. — Mrs. D. 

Broiled Oysters. 
Select the largest oysters, examining each one, to see that no 
particle of shell adheres to it. Dry with a nice linen cloth ; 
then pepper and salt them, and sift over a little finely-powdered 
cracker. Place them on an oyster gridiron over a quick fire. 
As soon as plump, dip each one in a cup of melted fresh butter ; 
lay on a hot dish garnished with scraped horseradish and pars- 
ley, and serve. — Mrs. S. T. 

Steamed Oysters. 
Wash shell oysters perfeotly clean ; lay them on a steamer, 
80 the juice will not escape frrim the shells when opened. It 



lO BOAST OTSTKES PICKLED 0T8TEKB. 91 

is best to lay the upper shells down. Cover the lid of the 
steamer with a coarse towel and press closely on. Set this over 
a pot of water boiling hard. In from twenty minutes to half 
an hour, the shells will have opened. Have ready a hot dish, 
on which lay the oysters ; sprinkle over them a little salt and 
pepper with a bit of fresh butter on each oyster. Serve imme- 
diately.— Jfr«. S. T. 

To KoAST Oysters. 
"Wash and wipe one peck large shell oysters. Put in a hot 
oven, taking care to put the upper shell downward, so the juice 
will not escape. As soon as the shells open, lay on a hot dish 
and serve with horseradish or pepper-sauce, after sprinkling 
on them a little salt, and putting a bit of fresh butter on each 
oyster. — Mrs. S. T. 

PlUKLKD OySTEKS. 

1 gallon oysters. 

1 tablespoonful salt. 

1 " ungi'ound black pepper. 

1 " allspice. 

6 blades mace. 

1 small piece cayenne pepper. 
Pick oysters out from the juice with a fork; stew until gills 
are opened well, then lay on flat dishes until cold ; pvit in a 
jar, and cover with equal parts of stewed juice and vinegar. Let 
stand two days. — Mrs. R. JR. 

JHcMed Oysters. 
Take two hundred oysters of largest size, rinse them in their 
own liquor and put them in a stew-pan. Strain the liquor to 
them, let them come to a boil, and no more. Take them out of 
the liquor ; have ready one quart or more of pure cider vine- 
gar, with which boil whole pepper, a little salt, mace, cloves, and 
nutmeg. 



92 PICKLED OYSTERS OYSTEE PIE — OYSTEE PATES. 

When it is cool, pour over the oysters. Before serving add a 
few raw cranberries and thin slices of lemon. — Mrs. S. T. 

PicMed Oysters. 

Take one gallon oysters and cook them in their own Uquor 
till nearly done. Then skim out the oysters and add to tho 
liquor one teaspoonful whole black pepper, one teaspoonfiil all- 
spice, one teaspoonful mace, a little red pepper and half a pint 
of strong vinegar. 

Let it boil a few minutes and then pour over the oysters. 
When nearly cool, slice in them a large fresh lemon. — Mrs. Col. 
A.F. 

Oyster Pie. 
Stew the oysters, not entirely done, with butter, pepper and 
one tablespoonful pepper-sauce, and salt. Make a paste of 
one pound flour and one-half pound butter. Line the dish and 
put in the oysters, grate bread crumbs over top, and bake. — 
Mrs. T. 

Oyster Pie. 
Put a paste in a deep dish. Wash the oysters, drain and 
put them in the dish, seasoning with butter, pepper, salt, and a 
little mace, if liked ; then put in a layer of grated cracker. 
When the dish is full, cover with paste and slips of paste laid 
across ; then bake. — Mrs. W . 

Oyster Pat^s. 
Stew some large oysters with a little nutmeg, a few cloves, 
some yolk of egg boiled hard and grated, a little butter and as 
much liquor from the oysters as will cover them. When 
stewed a few minutes, take them out of the pan to cool. Have 
shells of puff paste, previously baked in patty pans, and lay two 
or three oysters in each. — Mrs. D. 



oyster shoet case raw oysters. 9.t 

Oyster Short Cake. 

1 quart flour. 

3 teaspoonfuls baking powder. 

1 tablespoonful butter. 

A pinch of salt. 

Enough sweet milk to moisten well. 
Roll about one inch thick and bake on tin pie plates quickly 
While it is baking, take one quart oysters and OAe-half cup 
water and put on the stove ; then take one-half cup milk, and 
one-half cup butter mixed with one tablespoonful flour, 
and a little salt or pepper ; add all together and boil up 
once. 

When the cakes are done, split them open and spread the 
oysters between them, and some on the top. Put the oysters 
that are left in a gravy-dish and replenish when needed. — 
Mrs. K. 

Oyster Sausage. 

Chop one pint oysters, with one-q\iarter pound veal, and one- 
quarter pound suet. 

Mix with bread crumbs, and pound all in a mortar. Season 
with salt and pepper, adding an egg, well beaten. 

Make into cakes like pork sausage. — Mrs. E. 

Raw Oysters. 

Take each oyster separately on a fork and drain from the 
liquor. Place on the table in an oyster tureen or salad bowl ; 
have near a pile of small oblong dishes ; scraped horseradish, 
pepper sauce, and Worcestershire sauce, etc., so that after being 
helped, each guest may season to taste. 

When oysters are transported some distance, it is well to 
boil the liquor from which they have been taken and pour over 
them : this makes them plump and prevents them from being 
slimy.— JIfrs. S. T. 



94- TO KEEP 0TSTEB8 ALIVE AND FATTEN. 

To KEEP Oysters alive and Fatten. 
Mix one pint of salt with thirty pints of watei-. Put tho 
oysters in a tub that will not leak, with their mouths upwards 
and feed them with the above, by dipping in a broom and 
frequently passing over their mouths. It is said that they will 
fatten still more by mixing fine meal with the water. — Mrs. 
Ji . 

To Cook Crabs. 
Take live crabs and put them in cool water, let them remain 
for half an hour. Then put them in a vessel, pour boUing 
water on them sufficient to cover them ; boil ten minutes. 
Take them off and wipe them clean, first removing the dead men, 
and proceed to remove the meat. Take tho upper shell, clean 
it. Season the meat with pepper, salt, mustard, and plenty of 
butter; put all in the shell again and bake half an hour. — Mr. 
K. Norfolk. 

Ckab Stew. 
One peck live crabs, steam twenty minutes, bone and pick 
the claws and bodies. Stew with one pint milk or cream, the 
flesh and eggs of the crabs, fifteen minutes. Flavor with salt 
and cayenne pepper. — Mrs. R. L. O. 

Devilled Crab. 

After crabs are picked, season with mustard, pepper, salt, and 
catsup to taste. Add olive oil or butter. 

Cover with bread crumbs moistened with milk and lumps of 
butter (put a little milk in the crab also). Bake in the shells 
or in a pan. — Miss E. W. 

Devilled Crabs. 

To the flesh of one dozen crabs boiled fifteen minutes and 
picked free from shell, add : 



SOFT CKABS — LOBS'J'EE CUERY. 95 

3 tablespoonfuls of stale bread crumbs. 
^ wine glass of cream. 
Yolks of 3 eggs. 
A little chopped parsley. 
1 tablespoonful butter. 
Salt and pepper to the taste. 
Put them in the shell and bake in a quick oven. — Mrs. M. B. 
L. W. 

Soft Ckabs. 
Turn up the ends of the shells and take out the dead man's 
fingers and take off the flap, and cut out the sand-bag ; lay 
them in cold water until ready to fry. Then dust flour over 
them, a little salt, and fry them in hot lard. — Mrs. D. 

Devilled Crabs. 
After the crabs are boiled, pick them up fine and add one 
third the quantity of crab, in cracker dust or bread crumbs, 
mustard, red and black pepper, salt, and butter. Return them 
to the top shells, and bake. — Mrs. D. 

To Devil Hard Crabs. 
Take them while alive, put them in very little water and 
steam them till perfectly done and brown, set them away till 
cold, take all out of the shell. Mix with eggs, bread crumbs, 
butter, and pepper. Either put back in the top shell and bake, 
or bake in pans. — Mrs. J". G. 

Lobster Curry. 

Put the meat of a large lobster into a stewpan with one blade 
of mace. 

1 large cup of meat stock, or gravy. 

1 tablespoonful corn starch, mixed smooth, with a little milk 
or cream. 

Add salt. 

1 small piece of butter. 



96 TURTLE OR TERRAPIN STEW TO COOK TURTLES. 

1 dessertspoonful curry powder. 

Juice of one lemon. 

Simmer for an hour and serve hot. — Mrs. C. 

Turtle ok Terrapin Stew. 

A.ftei they are well cleaned, parboil the meat, then pick it to 
piices. Season, highly with pepper, salt, cayenne pepper, hard- 
boiled egg, spices, lemon, and champagne or other wine. 

Stew until well done. 

Stewed Turtle. 
Make a stew of the turtle and add all the ingredients used in 
the turtle-soup, except wine and lemons. — Mrs. D. 

Terrapin. 

First cut up the head and put it in the pot to boil with the 
shell on ; when done enough to remove the under shell, take it 
up and pick to pieces. Clean the top shell well ; add a few 
crackers, onions, parsley, allspice, black pepper, butter, and 
wine. 

Return it to the shell, put sliced lemon on and bake it. — 
Mrs. B. 

Turtle or Terrapin Steaks. 
Cut the turtle or terrapin in thin slices ; broil or fry them 
with pepper, salt, and butter. 

Turtle or Terrapin in Batter. 
Smother the steaks in an egg-batter. Season with pepper, 
salt, butter, and with a little bread crumbs ; fry or broil. 

To Cook Turtles. 
Droj) four turtles into boiling water, and boil one hour ; then 
take them out and remove the skin from the legs and feet, and 
replace them in fresh boiling water, where tliey should continue 



FISH. 97 

to boil one and one-half hour and then be taken out to cool. 
When cold, clean them thoroughly, removing the round Kver 
which contains the gall. Cut them into small bits and place 
them in a stewpan, adding pepper, salt, the eggs that are found 
within, one quart water, one-half pound butter, and two table- 
spoonfuls flour mixed with a little cold water. Stir the flour 
and water well into the other ingredients, and stew about 
twenty minutes. As you remove them from the fire, pour in 
one-half pint Madeira wine. — Mrs. A. D, 



FISH. 

In selecting fish, notice if the flesh is firm and hard, the eyes 
full and prominent, the scales bright, the fins stifl', and the gilLs 
red, as all these indications denote their being fresh. Wash 
the fish, rub it with salt and pepper, and lay it on a dish, or 
hang it up till ready to cook. Never keep it lying in water, 
either in preparing it for cooking, or in trying to keep it till the 
next day. 

In boiling fish, put it in boiling water, and simmer very 
slowly. It will require an hour to boil a large fish, and about 
twenty minutes for a small one. Every housekeeper should 
have a fish-kettle for fish. 

Be careful to have boiling-hot lard in the frying-pan when 
you go to fry fish. Pirst rub salt and pepper and flour or meal 
on the fish, then keep it well covered while frying, as you 
should do to every thing that is being fried. Doing this will 
enable you to fry the fish (or other article of food) a pretty 
amber color, while at the same time it will be perfectly done. 

Always have a tin sheet for lifting boiled fish and for turn- 
ing broiled fish. Before broiling, rub with pepper and salt, 



98 FISH A LA CREME HALIBUT. 

iind then grease witb fresh, butter. Lay the fish on a gridiron 
well greased with sweet lard and lay the tin sheet over it. 
When you wish to turn, take the gridiron from the fire, hold- 
ing the tin sheet on top the fish. Hold them together, then lay 
Ihem on a table with the tin sheet down and the gridiron upper- 
most. Carefully raise the gridiron, leaving the fish lying un- 
broken on the tin sheet. The cook may now easily slide the 
fish on the gridiron, put it again on the fire and brown the 
other side, putting the tin sheet back on top of it. Every 
thing should be covered while being broiled. When done, lay 
it on a dish and pour over it melted butter in which has been 
stirred pepper, salt, and minced parsley. If devilled fish is 
desired, add to this dressing, one tablespoonful pepper vinegar, 
one of celery vinegar, one of walnut catsup, one of made mus- 
tard, one wine-glassful of acid fruit jelly. In making sauces 
for fish, never use the water in which the fish has been boiled. 

Full directions for stewing fish are to be found in the subse^ 
quent pages. 

Fish X la Cr^mb. 

Boil a firm fish, remove the bones, pick it to pieces. Mix 
one pint cream or milk with two tablespoonfuls flour, one onion, 
one-half poiind butter (or less), and salt. 

Set it on the fire and stir until it is as thick as custard. Fill a 
baking-dish alternately with fish, cracker, and cream. Eake for 
thirty minutes, use four crackers. — Mrs. W. O. JR. 

Halibut. 

Boil one pound halibut, then chop it very fine and add eight 
eggs well beaten ; pepper and salt to taste, then one (!up butter. 

Put it in a stewpan and cook until the eggs are done suffi. 
ciently. Serve very hot on toast. — Miss F. N. 

Salibut. 
Halibut should be cut in slices of four pounds each. If to 



FISH CHOWDER CAT-FISH CHOWDEE OR HOG-FISH. 99 

be boiled, cover with salt water, and skim often ; drain off and 
serve with butter sauce. 

If baked or fried, garnish with horseradish and serve with 
melted butter. 

Fish Chowder. 

Fry a few slices of salt pork, cut the fish in small pieces, pare 
and slice the potatoes, add a little onion chopped fine. 

Place all in layers in the kettle ; season with salt and pepper. 
Stew over a slow fire thirty minutes. 

Cat-fish Chowdek. 

To be made of New River cat-fish. 

Wash the fish in warm water, put it on in just water enough 
to cover it, boil until tender or until the bones will slip out ; 
take out the largest bones, chop up the fish, put it in a stewpan 
with a pint of water, a large lump of butter. 

1 cup of cream, jiepper and not much salt. 

1 onion, one teaspoonful mustard, one-half teacupful walnut 
catsup. 

Stew until quite thick, garnish with sliced lemon and serve 
hot.— Mrs. F. W. 

Cat-fish Chowdek or Hog-fish. 
Take two cat-fish, skin, and boil till thoroughly done ; pick 
very fine and add : 

2 good sized onions. 

J pound butter. 

1 tablespoonful salt. 

1 tablespoonful pepper. 

2 tablespoonfuls Worcestershire sauce. 

Add a little celery or celery-seed, a little thyme, a little pars- 
ley. 

Pour over all about one quart of boiling water and cook fast 
bout half an hour. — Miss F. N. 



100 fish chowder baked sheep's-head. 

Fish Chowder. 

Take any large fish, and cut in thin slices, lay some Silices of 
fat bacon at the bottom of the pot and then a layer of fish, 
onions, cracker dust, red and black pepper, salt, and butter. 

Then more layers, until you have used all the fish. Cover the 
whole with water and cook until well done. — 3£rs. D. 



Boiled Sheep's-head. 
Clean the fish and boil well done. Serve hot with butter 
and egg sauce. 

To Bake a Sheep's-head. 
Put two tablespoonfuls butter and two tablespoonfuls lard 
in a skillet ; also, with that, two tablespoonfuls flour, a little 
parsley, one pint boiling water, a little wine, catsup, salt, and 
cayenne pepper. Boil a few minutes ; then take four eggs, half a 
pint cream or butter ; beat well together. Lay tlie fish in a 
large deep dish, pour gravy from skillet over it; spread butter 
over top of fish. The bottom of the oven to be quite hot, top 
slow. — Miss E. W. 

Boiled Sheep's-head or Rock. 
Lay the fish in a fish boiler, in a cloth, to prevent breaking. 
Throw into the water a handful parsley, and when the fish is 
done, lay some sprigs on it in the dish. — Mrs. D. 

Baked Sheep's-head. 
Put the fish in a pan and cover with water ; put a little par- 
sley, onions, and fat bacon, chopped up together, black pepper 
and salt, in the fish and over it, and when nearly done, beat up 
one egg and a little flour, and pour over it to thicken the 
gravy. Rock or shad may be cooked the same way.— 
Mrs. 1). 



BAKED sheep's-head — BAKED BOOK. 101 

Saked Sheep' s-liead. 
When 1 eady for cooking, salt and pepper well, gash the sides 
La three or four places. Cut four onions very line, to which 
add one pint bread crumbs, fat meat minced very fine, as it 
suits better than lard, cayenne pepper, thyme, a little salt, and 
the yolks of two eggs, all mashed together, with which stuff the 
fish inside and gashes on the outside. Then spriakle over with 
flour and black pepper; put into a large pan with one quart 
cold water. Bake two hours, slowly. Serve with or without 
sauce, according to taste. — Miss 1^. N. 

Boiled Rock-fish. 
Clean the fish nicely, rub well with salt and pepper. Put 
into a large deep pan, that it may lie at full length ; cover with 
cold water, adding salt and pepper. Boil steadily for three- 
quarters of an hour ; dish and sei-ve with melted butter and 
sauce or catsup. — Miss F. JV. 

.Boiled Rock-fish. 

Clean nicely and hang it up ; do not lay it in water, but 
wash it when ready for cooking. Put on in boiling water, 
seasoning with salt to taste. It takes two hours to boil, if 
large. Serve with egg sauce, and send to the table in a napkin 
to kerip hot. — Mrs. W. 

To Stew Rock-pish. 
Take a rock, clean and season with parsley, sweet marjoram, 
onions, one-half pint water, salt to taste, one pint Port wine, 
one-half pound butter, and a little flour. Put them in a dish, 
and set in a stewpan. One hour is sufficient for cooking. — 
Mrs. J. T. 

Baked Rock. 
Boil the fish and take out the bones. Season with cream. 



102 TO PIOKLE EOCK TO BKOIL SHAD. 

butter, pepper, and salt, and grated bread crumbs over the top. 
Bake sliglitly in a flat dish or scollop shells. — Mrs. H. 

To Pickle Rock. 
Cut a rock-fish into pieces and put in a kettle with sufiicient 
water to cover it. Put in a handful of salt, some white pepper, 
one tablespoonful allspice, a few cloves and mace. 

When the fish is nearly done, add a quart of vinegar. In 
putting away, use as much liquor as will cover it. — Mrs. JT. 
W. S. 

Based Shad. 

Open the shad down the back, wash well and salt it ; wipe 
dry and rub inside and out with a little cayenne pepper. Pre- 
pare a stuffing of bread, seasoned with pepper, salt, thyme, or 
parsley, celery-seed, a little chopped onion, piece of butter, size 
of a walnut. 

Tie up the fish and put in a baking pan with one pint water 
(to a good sized fish) and butter, size of a hen's egg. Sprinkle 
with flour, baste well and bake slowly an hour and a half. — 
Mrs. J. H. F. 

To Fry Shad. 

Clean and hang in a cool place. When ready to use wash 
thoroughly, cut up and sprinkle lightly with flour, pepper, salt, 
and fry with lard. — Mrs, R . 

To Roast Shad. 
Fill the inside with forcemeat, sew it up and tie it on a 
board, not pine, cover with bread crumbs, a little salt, and pep- 
per, and place before the fire. When done one side, turn it; 
when sufficiently done, pull out the thread ; dish and serve with 
drawn butter and parsley. — Mrs. D. 

To Broil Shad. 
Clean, wash, and split the shad, and wipe it dry. 
Sprinkle with pepper and salt, and place it over a clear, slow 



POTTED SHAD — STUEGEON CUTLET. 103 

fire, with the skin down so as to retain the juice; pxit on a 
clean gridiron, i-ub'.jed with lard. Turn it when nearly done ; 
take up, and season with a generous piece of butter, salt, and 
pepper to taste. — Mrs. S. 

Potted Shad. 

Cut the fish as for frying; pack in a stone jar with layers of 
mixed spices, seasoning with salt; after the jar is filled, pour 
vinegar over ; cover tightly with a cloth. Put the jar in a large 
pot of water and boil until the fish is thoroughly done. 

A nice relish for tea. — Mrs. C. L. T. 

To Barbecue a Shad. 

Split the back of the fish, pepper and salt it, and put on the 
gridiron with the skin down. 

Baste the upper side of the fish with butter ; brown a little 
piece of butter with a small quantity of flour, and when brown 
add pepper, salt, and a little water. 

Disii in a tureen. — Mrs. «/! TFI S. 

Scolloped Sturgeon. 
Four pounds sturgeon, boiled ; when cold, pick to pieces and 
then wash and squeeze out the water. Make a mayonnaise 
dressing, using celery, cayenne pepper instead of black pepper, 
and salt. Serve on white lettuce leaves. — Mrs. M. H. 

Sturgeon Cutlet. 

Remove all the fat from the fish ; cut it into steak pieces. 
Beat up the yolks of eggs enough to moisten the pieces well ; 
dip them into the beaten egg. Have ready a dish of grated 
bread crumbs (stale bread is best), then roll them in the bread 
crumbs and pepper them well. 

Prepare a vessel of melted lard, have it boiling hot, but not 
burnt ; lay in the pieces of fish and cover with a lid. Turn 



104: STURGEON OB DKUM — COD-FISll BALLS. 

them over as they brown and remove the lid when they are 
nearly done. — Mrs. Dr. P. C. 

Sturgeon or Drum. 

Slice it like beefsteak, and roll in a thin egg batter, and fry 
in hot lard. 

Chopped parsley and black pepper may be added, if liked. — 
Mrs. D., Suffolk. 

Baked Sturgeon; 
Wash the .skin wdl, put in a pan and bake for three-quarters 
of an hour. Then take it out on a dish ; pierce it with a knife 
iu several places. Make a stuffing of pot-meat, bread crumbs, 
onions, parsley, thyme, pepper, and .salt, all chopped well 
together. Stuff the holes with the mixture and put the rest in 
the gravy; return to the pan and bake until done. — Mrs. D. 

To Fry Perch. 
Sprinkle with salt and dredge with flour ; after a while dredge 
with flour the other side. When the lard boils hard, skim it 
well and put in the fish. Serve hot. — Mrs. W. 

To Fry Trout. 
Split the fish down the back, insert a thin slice of fat pork. 
Squeeze lemon juice over it and fry brown. — Mrs. J] I., La. 

Boiled Cod-fish. 
Boil over a slow fire and skim frequently. Season with salt. 
Giirnish with parsley and rings of hard boiled eggs, and serve 
with butter and egg-sauce. 

Cod-fish Balls. 
One-fourth fish, to three-fourths potatoes, eggs enough to 
moisten. Season with pepper and salt, and frv brown. 



nantucket cod-fish ^to broil mackeeel. 105 

Nantucket Cod-fish. 
Cut the thick part out of a firm, white dried codfish, and soak it 
over night, then cut into very small pieces and parboil for a few 
minutes, changing the water until the fish remains but slightly 
Baltod. Drain ofl;' the water, leaving the fish in the saucepan. 
Pour over a little more milk than will cover it ; when it becomes 
heated, add a little butter and pepper, thicken with flour stirred 
smooth in milk. Stir constantly for a few minutes. 

To Dkess Salt Cod-fish. 
Take one-third of a large fish ; soak it from three to four 
hours ; next, boiling it till thoroughly done, pick the meat fine, 
taking out all the bones. Then add : 

3 hard-boiled eggs, chopped fine. 
3 to 4 Irish potatoes, boiled and mashed. 
Mix all well together in a stewpan, with — 
1 teacup of hot water. 
Salt and mustard to the taste. 
Boil half an hour, and add a liberal supply of butter just 
before serving. If preferred, the salt and mustard need not be 
put in until during the cooking. — Mrs. A. C. 

Boiled Mackerel. 
Well wash the fish, put it into nearly boiling water with one 
tablespoonful salt in it ; boil up quickly, then let it simmer 
gently for a quarter of an hour, and if the fish be very large, a 
few minutes longer. Serve in a hot dish. — JIfrs. S. 

To Broil Mackerel. 
If the mackerel is fresh, after it is nicely scaled and cleaned, 
dry it ; pepper and salt and broil it on a gridiron ; baste it with 
fresh butter. After it is broiled, put it on a hot dish, pour 
melted butter over it, and serve. If the fish is salt, pour boil- 
ing water over it, soak it several hours ; butter and pepper, and 
broil ; serve in the same way as the fresh. — Mrs. li. 



106 TO COOK BALT MAOKEEEL SALMON STEAK. 

To CooK Salt Mackerel. 
Soak the fish over night in fresh water. In the moi-ning 
drain off the water and place on a gridiron to broil, dressing 
with hot butter. — Mrs. T. 

Baked Salmon. 
When washed and dried, sprinkle over pepper and salt. 
Have ready in a baking-pan a small grating ; lay the fish on 
this, with bits of butter over it ; set in a hot oven, basting often 
and freely with butter. When nicely browned, butter a sheet 
of white paper and lay over it, to prevent its getting too dry; 
when done and tender, place on a hot dish. Add to the gravy 
one teacupful milk, one tablespoonful pepper vinegar, pepper, 
salt, and a mashed Irish potato smoothly mixed in; boil, and 
pour over the fish. Sift over all browned cracker. Garnish 
with bleached tops of celery and curled parsley alternately. — 
Mrs. T. 

Boiled Salmon. 

After the fish has been cleaned and washed, dry it and sew it 
up in a cloth ; lay it in a fish-kettle, cover with warm water, 
and simmer until done and tender. Meanwhile have ready 
in a saucepan one pint cream, two tablespoonfuls fresh butter, 
salt, pepper, minced parsley, aud thyme ; let it boil up once, 
not too quickly. Take the fish from the kettle, carefully unwrap 
it, lay it for a moment on a folded napkin to dry. Have ready 
a hot dish, lay the fish on it carefully, without breaking it, pour 
over the cream. Slice some hard-boiled eggs, and lay over the 
fish alternately with sliced lemon. Border the edges of the dish 
with curled parsley. — Mrs. S. T. 

Salmon Steak. 
When well dried, pepper and salt, sift over powdered cracker, 
and lay upon a gridiron, which has been first greased with but- 
ter or lard, over hot coals. As soon as the side next to the fire 
is bro\»n, turn it by carefully slipping under it a batter-cake 



PICKLEU SALMON — HAUNCH OF VENISON. 107 

turner and holding the fish on it with the other hand, lest it 
should break. When both sides are of a light brown, lay in a 
hot dish ; pepper and salt again ; pour over melted butter ; 
place the cover on, and serve. — Mrs. T. 

Pickled Salmon. 
Soak the salmon twenty-four hours, changing the water. Put 
it in boiling water, with a little vinegar. When done and 
cold, boil your vinegar with spice and pour on the fish. — Mrs, 
A. P. 

Gekmak Fish Stew. 
Put the fish in a kettle to boil. Stew together in a saucepan 
one onion chopped fine and a wine-glass of sweet oil ; when well 
done, pour them in with the fish. Then mix yolks of three 
eggs,juiceof two lemons strained, one tablespoonful sifted flour. 
Beat these well together, and pour upon the fish when nearly 
done. Then add ginger, pepper, and salt to taste ; stew three 
or four minutes, after mixing all the ingredients. Oysters may 
be cooked by the same receipt, only substituting one quart oys- 
ters for the fish. — Mrs. A. D. 



GAME. 

Haunch of Venison. 
Rub the venison over with pepper, salt, and butter. Kepeat 
the rubbing. After it has been put in the oven, put in as much 
cold water as will prevent burning and draw the gravy. Stick 
five or six cloves in different parts of the venison. Add enough 
water to make suflB.cient gravy. Just before dinner, put in a 
glass of red wine and a lump of butter rolled in flour, and le< 
it stew a little longer. — Mrs. T. 



108 venison haunch to baebecue sqdiekel. 

Venison Haunch. 

Prepare the venison as you would mutton. 

Put in a baking-pan, lard with a little bacon, add a pint of 
water, a gill of red wine, salt, and a little cayenne pepper. 
Bake quickly, and serve with or without gravy. 

Stewed Venison. 
Cut in tolerably thick slices. Put in an oven with two 
spoonfuls of water and a piece of lard. Cook till nearly done, 
then pour off the gravy and baste it well with a large spoonful 
of butter, pepper, and salt. 

Stewed Venison. 
Slice cold venison in a chafing dish and add — 

A cup of water. 

A small teacup of red wine. 

A small teacup of currant jelly. 

A tablespoonfiil of butter. 

A teaspoonful of made mustard. 

A little yellow pickle. 

A little chopped celery. 

A little mushroom catsup. 

Salt and cayenne pepper to the taste. 
The same receipt will answer for cold mutton. — Mrs. li. 
L. 0. 

To Barbecue Squirrel. 
Put some slices of fat bacon in an oven. Lay the squirrels 
on them and lay two slices of bacon on the top. Put them ir 
the oven and let them cook until done. Lay them on a dish 
and set near the fire. Take out the bacon, sprinkle one spoon- 
ful of flour in the gravy and let it brown. Then pour in one 
teacup of water, one tablespoonful of butter, and some tomato 
or walnut catsup. Let it jool, and then pour it over the 
squirrel. 



eoast babbit stjswed kabbit. 109 

Roast Rabbit. 
Stew the rabbit. After boiling the haslet and liver, stew 
them, with parsley, thyme, celery-seed, butter, salt, and pepper, 
for gravy. Soak a piece of loaf bread, a short time, in water. 
Mix with it the yolk of an egg and some butter, for stuffing ; 
then soak it in milk and cream. Sprinkle the inside of the 
rabbit with salt and pepper, fill it with the above dressing, sow 
it up, and roast or bake quickly. — Mrs. S. 

Barbecued Rabbit, 
Lay the rabbit in salt and water half an hour, scald with 
boiling water, wipe dry, grease with butter^ and sprinkle with 
pepper and a little salt. Lay it on the gridiron, turning often 
so that it may cook through and through, without becoming 
hard and dry. When brown, lay on a hot dish, butter plenti- 
fully on both sides, and add a little salt and pepper. Set in 
the oven, while preparing four teaspoonfuls of vinegar, one of 
made mustard, and one of currant jelly or brown sugar. Pour 
this over the rabbit, rubbing it in, then pour over the gravy 
and serve hot. — Mrs. T. 

Stewed Rabbit. 
Cut up the rabbit and wash it. Put it in a stewpan and 
season it with salt and pepper. Pour in half a pint of water, 
and when this has nearly stewed away, add half a pint of Port 
Tine, two or three blades of mace, and a tablespoonful of flour, 
mixed with a quarter of a pound of butter. Let it stew gently 
till quite tender, and then serve hot. — Mrs. C. G. 

Stewed Rabbit. 

Cut a rabbit into eight pieces. After soaking in salt and 
water, put it in a stewpan, with a slice of pork or bacon, and 
with more than enough water to cover it. When nearly done, 
take out the pieces, strain the water in which they have boiled, 
and return all to the stewpan, with a teacup of milk, a little 



110 WILD TUEKET TO BOAST WDJD FOWL IN A STOVE. 

pepper, salt, chopped onion and parsley. After this boils up, 
stir in a heaping tablespoonful of butter, in which a tablespoon- 
ful of flour has been rubbed. Let it boil up once more ; then 
serve in a covered dish, with four hard-boiled eggs sliced over 
it, and grated bread crumbs. The same receipt will answer for 
squirrel. — Mrs. T. 

Wild Turkey. 
If the iurkey is old, after it is dressed wash it inside thor- 
oughly with soda and water. Rinse it and plunge it into a pot 
of boiling water for five minutes. Make a stuffing of bits of 
pork, beef, or any other cold meat, plenty of chopped celery, 
stewed giblets, hard-boiled eggs, pounded cracker, pepper, and 
salt, and a heaping spoonful of butter. Work this well and fill 
the turkey. With another large spoonful of butter grease the 
bird, and then sprinkle salt and pepper over it. Lay in a pan, 
with a pint of stock or broth in which any kind of meat has 
been boiled. Place in a hot oven. When it begins to brown, 
dredge with flour and baste, turning often, so that each part 
may be equally browned. Put a buttered sheet of paper over 
the breast, to prevent dryness. When thoroughly done, lay on 
a dish, brown some crackers, pound and sift over it, and serve 
with celery or oyster sauce. — Mrs. T. 

A Simpler Way to Prepare Wild Twrhey, 
Prepare the turkey as usual, rub the inside with salt and 
cayenne pepper, and put in the baking-pan, with water enough 
to make gravy. Cut up the gizzai-d and liver with a lump of 
butter and a spoonful of cream. Mix with the gi-avy and serve 
hot 

To Roast Wild Fowl in a Stove. 
Put them on a rack above a pan, so that the gravy will drip 
through. This makes them as delicate as if roasted on a spit. 
If roasted in a pan, they will be exceedingly greasy and hare 



WILD GOOSE TO COOK WILD DUCK TOK BREAKFAST. Ill 

the atovey taste to which so many persons object. — Mrs. J. 
W.S. 

Wild Goose. 

After the goose is dressed, soak it several hours in salt and 
water. Put a small onion inside and plunge it into boiling 
water for twenty minutes. Stuff with chopped celery, chopped 
eggs, mashed potatoes, bits of fat pork or other cold meat ; a 
little butter ; raw turnip grated ; a tablespoonful of ])ej)per 
vinegar ; a little chopped onion ; pepper and salt to the taste. 

A teacup of stock or broth must be put in the pan with the 
fowl. Butter it, dredge with flour, and baste often. Pin a 
buttered paper over the breast to prevent its becoming hard. 
Serve with mushroom or celery sauce, or, for a simpler taste, 
serve merely with its own gravy. — Mrs. T. 

Wild Goose. 

Put a small onion inside, a slice of pork, pepper, salt, and a 
spoonfiil of red wine. 

Lay in a pan with water enough to make gravy. Dredge 
with flour, and baste with butter frequently. Cook quickly' 
and serve with gravy made as for wild turkey. 

Wild Duck. 

When the duck is ready dressed, put in it a small onion, 
pepper, salt, and a spoonful of red wine. Lay in a pan with 
water enough to make the gravy. Cook in fifteen or twenty 
minutes, if the fire is brisk. Serve with gi avy made as for 
wild turkey. 

Canvas-back ducks are cooked in the same way, only you 
leave on their heads and do not use onion with t]iem. — Mrs. 
B. L. O. 

To Cook Wild Duck for Sreakfast. 
Split open in the back, put in a pan with a little water, but- 



112 TO BKOIL PARTBIDaES — TO BROII, PIGEONS. 

ter, pepper and salt, and cook till tender. Baste with flour. Lf 
for dinner, cook whole. — Mrs. J". L. C. 

To Broil Partridges. 
Place them in salt and water, an hour or two before broiling. 
When taken out, wipe them dry, and rub them all over with 
fresh butter, pepper and salt. First broil the under or split 
side on the gridiron, over bright, clear coals, turning until the 
upper side is of a fine, light brown. It must be cooked prin- 
cipally from the under side. When done, rub well again with 
fresh butter and if not ready to serve them immediately, put 
them in a large shallow tin bucket, cover it and set it over a 
pot or kettle of boiling water, which will keep them hot with- 
out making them hard or dry and will give time for the many 
" last things " to be done before serving a meal. When served, 
sift over them powdered cracker, first browned. — Mrs. T. 

To KoAST Partridges. 
Clean the birds as for stuffing. Bub with butter, salt and 
pepper. Put in sheets of letter paper and allow to cook in this 
way. — Mrs. W. C. 

To Cook Partridges and Pheasants. 

Place them in a steamei-, over a pot of boiling water, till 
tender. 

Have ready a saucepan of large fresh oysters, scalded just 
enough to make them plump and seasoned with pepper-sauce, 
butter, and a little salt. Rub the cavity of the birds with salt 
and pepper, fill with oysters and sew up. Broil till a light 
brown. Place on a hot dish and sift over them browned 
cracker. Add a large tablespoonful of butter and one of 
l)ounded cracker to the oyster liquor. Boil it up once and 
pour into the dish, but not over the birds. — Mrs. T. 

To Broil Pigeons. 
Pigeons may be broiled the same as chickens, only cover the 



113 

breast with slices of bacon. When nearly done, remove the 
bacon, dredge with flour and baste with butter. They will be 
done in half an hour. 

Stewed Pigeons. 
The pigeons must be seasoned with pepper, salt, cloves, mace 
and sweet herbs. Wrap the seasoning up in a piece of butter 
and put it in the pigeon. Then tie up the neck and vest and 
half roast the pigeons. Then put them in a stewpan with a 
quart of good gravy, a little white wine, some pickled mush- 
rooms, a few peppercorns, three or four blades of mace, a bit 
of lemon peel, a bit of onion and a bunch of sweet herbs. 
Stew until done, then thicken with butter and yolks of eggs. 
Garnish with lemon. 

Pigeon Pie. 

Take six young pigeons. After they are drawn, trussed, and 
singed, stuff them with the chopped livers mixed with parsley, 
salt, pepper, and a small piece of butter. Cover the bottom of 
the dish with rather small pieces of beef. On the beef, place a 
thin layer of chopped parsley and mushrooms, seasoned with 
pepper and salt. Over this place the pigeons, between each 
putting the yolk of a hard-boiled egg. Add some brown sauce 
or gravy. Cover with puff paste and bake the pie for an hour 
and a half.— JIfrs. C. O. 

To Dress Reed Birds. 
Pick open and carefully wash one dozen or more birds. 
Place them between the folds of a towel, and with a rolling-pin 
mash the bones quite flat. Season with salt and a littlo 
cayenne and black pepper. Either fry or broil on a gridiron 
made for broiling oysters. This must be done over a clear fire. 
When done, season, put a lump of butter on each bird and 
serve hot. — Mrs. A. M. D. 

To Cook Sora, Ortolans, and Other Small Birds. 

Prspare as you would a chicken for roasting. Lay in a pan 

10 



114 MEATS. 

and pour boiling water over them or, if convenient, steam them. 
Scald a few large fresh oysters till just plump, season them with 
cayenne pepper, salt and butter. Pour into the cavity of each 
bird a few drops of pepper-sauce and then put a large oyster in 
each. Broil a short time, frequently turning that they may not 
become dry. If not ready to serve them as soon as they are 
done, lay in a tin bucket, butter them and sprinkle them 
again with black pepper, cover the bucket and set it over boil- 
ing water till wanted. When laid in the dish, sift browned 
cracker over the birds, and pour gravy into the dish. — 
Mrs. T. 

To Cook Sora, Ortolans, and Other Small JBirds. 
After they are split open in the back and dressed, lay them 
in weak salt and water for a short time. Then lay them on a 
board and roll with a rolling-pin to flatten the breastbone. 
Put butter, pepper, and salt on them. Lay them on a gridiron 
and broil slowly. When just done, add more butter and pep- 
per, lay in a flat tin bucket, which set over a vessel of boiling 
water to keep the birds hot, juicy, and tender till wanted. — 
Mrs. T. 

SoRA, Ortolans, Robins, and Other Small Birds. 
They should be carefully cleaned, buttered, sprinkled with 
pepper and salt, and broiled. When they are served, butter 
them again. If you like, serve each bird on a piece of toast, 
and pour over them a sauce of red wine, mushroom catsup, 
salt, cayenne pepper, and celery. 



MEA.TS. 

All meats are better in winter for being kept several weeks, 
and it is well, in summer, to keep them as long as you can with 



MEATS. 115 

out danger of their being tainted. If it is not in your power to 
keep meat in an ice-house, in summer, keep it in a cool dark cellar, 
wrapped around with wet cloths, on top of which lay boughs of 
elderberry. The evaporation from the cloth will keep the meat 
cool and the elderberry will keep oif insects. 

If you should unfortunately be obliged to use stale meat or 
poultry, rub it in and out with soda, before washing it. Tough 
meats .and poultry are rendered more tender by putting a little 
vinegar or a few slices of lemon in the water in which they are 
boiled. The use of an acid will save time and fuel in cooking 
them and will render tliem moi'e tender and digestible. 

If possible, keep the meat so clean that it will not be neces- 
sary to wash it, as water extracts the juices. When it is fro- 
zen, lay it in cold water to thaw, and then cook quickly, to pi'e- 
vent its losing its moisture and sweetness. 

In roasting-or boiling, use but little salt at first, as it hardens 
meat to do otherwise. In roasting, baste frequently, to prevent 
che meat from hardening on tl>e outside, and try to preserve the 
juices. If possible, roast the meat on a spit before a large, open 
fire, after using salt, pepper, butter or lard, and dredging with 
flour. Where an open fire-place cannot be obtained, however, 
the meat may be well roasted in a stove or range. Mutton, 
pork, shote and veal should be well done, but beef should be 
cooked rare. 

In boiling, put on salt meat in cold water, but fresh meat in 
hot. Remember also that salt meat requires more water and a 
longer time to cook than fresh. Boil slowly, removing the scum 
that rises when it begins to simmer. Keep a tea-kettle of boil- 
ing water at hand to replenish the water in the pot, as it boils 
away. Do not let the meat boil too hard or too long, as this 
will toughen it and extract tlie juices. Add salt ;o fresh meat^ 
just before it is done. 

Lardering beef, veal, and poultry is a great improvement, 
keeping it moist whilst cooking and adding riclmess to the fla- 
vor. Lardering consists in introducing slips of clear fat bacon 



116 



HOW TO SELECT MEATS. 



or salt pork, into the surface of meat, by means of a pin, sharp 
at one end and cleft into four divisions at the other. This pin 
may be obtained at any hardware store. 

As the housekeeper is sometimes hurried in preparing a dish, 
it will save time and trouble for her to keep on hand a bottle 
of meat-flavoring compounded of the following ingredients. 

2 chopped onions. 

3 pods of red pepper (chopped). 
2 tablespoonfuls brown sugar. 

1 tablespoonful celery seed. 

1 tablespoonful ground mustard. 

1 teaspoonful turmeric. 

1 teaspoonful black pepper. 

1 teaspoonful salt. 
Put all in a quart bottle and fill it up with cider vinegar. A 
tablespoonful of this mixed in a stew, steak, or gravy, will im- 
part not only a fine flavor, but a rich color. Keeping tliis mixt- 
ure oil hand will obviate the necessity of the housekeeper look- 
ing through various spice boxes and packages to get together 
the requisite ingredients for flavoring, and will thus save her 
time and trouble. 

How TO Select Meats. 
Good and wholesome meat should be neither of a pale rosy or 
pink color, nor of a deep purple. The first denotes the diseased 
condition, the last proves the animal has died a natural death. 
Good meat has more of a marble look, in consequence of the 
branching of the veins which surround the adipose cells. The 
fat, especially of the inner organs, is always firm and suetv and 
never moist, while in general the fat from diseased cattle is 
flabby and watery and more often resembles jelly or boiled 
parchment. Wholesome meat will always show itself firm and 
elastic to the touch, and exibit no dampness, while bad meat 
will appear soft and moist, in fact, often more wet, so that the 
liquid substance runs out of the blood when pressed hari. 



OBSEKVATIONS ON POEK, CUEING BACON, I TC. 117 

Good meat has very little smell and diffuses a certain medicinal 
odor. This can be distinctly proved by cutting the meat through 
with a knife and smelling the blade or pouring water over it. 
Lastly, bad meat has the peculiarity that it shrinks considera- 
bly in the boiling, wholesome meat rather swells and does not 
lose an ounce in weight. 

Observations on Pork, Curing Bacon, etc. 

Hogs weighing from 150 to 200 pounds are the most suitable 
size for family use. They should not exceed twelve months in 
age, as they are much more tender from being young. They 
shovild be well kept and should be corn-fed several weeks before 
being killed. After being properly dressed, they should hang 
long enough to get rid of the animal heat. When they are 
ready to be cut up, they should be divided into nine principal 
parts, two hams, two slioulders, two middlings, the head or face, 
jowl and chine. The hog is laid on its back to be cut up. The 
head is cut oif just below the ears, then it is split down on each 
side of the backbone, which is the chine. This is divided into 
three pieces, the upper portion being a choice piece to be eaten 
cold. The fat portion may be cut oif to make lard. Each half 
should then first have the leaf fat taken out, which is done by 
cutting the thin skin between it and the ribs, when it is easily 
pulled out. Just under this, the next thing to be removed is 
the mousepiece or tenderloin, lying along the edge, from which 
the backbone was removed, commencing at the point of the 
ham. This is considered the most delicate part and is used to 
make the nicest sausage. Just under this tenderloin are some 
short ribs about three inches long, running up from the point of 
the ham whicli are known as the griskin. This is removed by a 
sharp knife being i-un under it, taking care to cut it smooth and 
not too thick. When broiled, it is as nice as a partridge. 

The ribs are next taken out of the shoulder and middling, 
though some persons prefer leaving them in the middling. In 
this case seven should be taken from the shoulder, by a shary 



118 OBSERVATIONS ON POEK, CUEING BACON, ETC. 

knife cutting close to the ribs, which make a delicious broil. 
Then cut off the ham as near the bone as possible, in a half 
circle. The shoulder is then cut square across just behind the 
leg. The feet are then chopped off with a sharp axe or cleaver. 
From the shoulder, they should be cut off leaving a stump of 
about two inches. From the ham, they should be cut off at the 
joint, as smoothly as possible, and then you may proceed to salt 
the meat. 

In order to impart redness to the hams, rub on each a tea- 
spoonful of pulverized saltpetre before salting. If the weather 
is very cold, warm tlie salt before applying it. First rub the 
skin side well with salt and then the fleshy side, using for the 
purpose a shoe-sole or leather glove. No more salt should be 
used than a sufficiency to preserve the meat, as an excess hard- 
ens the meat. A bushel of salt is sufficient for a thousand 
pounds of meat. For the chine and ribs a very light sprinkling 
of salt will suffice. 

The meat as salted should be packed with the skin side down, 
where it should remain from four to six weeks, according to the 
weather. If the weather is mild, four weeks will answer. 
Should the weather be very cold and the pork in an exposed 
place, it will freeze, and the salt, failing to penetrate the meat, 
will be apt to injure it. 

After it has taken salt sufficiently, the old Virginia mode is 
to break the bulk, shake off the salt, rub the joint pieces (hams 
and shoulders) with good, green- wood ashes (hickory preferred). 
Then rebulk it and let it remain two weeks longer, when it 
should be hung up with the joints down and the other pieces 
may be hung up for smoking at the same time. It is not neces- 
sary that the smoke-house should be very tight, but it is impor- 
tant that the pork should not be very close to the fire. 

A smothered fire made of small billets of wood or chips (hick- 
ory preferred), or of corn cobs, should be made up three times 
a day till the middle of March or first of April, when the joint 
pieces should be taken down and packed in hickory or othei 



POEK STEAK — SPAEE-EIB8. 119 

groen-wood ashes, as in salt, where they will lemain all the sum- 
mer without danger of bugs interfering with them. 

This recipe has been obtained from an old Virginia family, 
famous for their skill in this department of housekeeping. 
This mode of curing makes the best bacon in the world, far 
superior to what are generally called Virginia cured hams. 

Shoat (which I must explain to the uninitiated is a term ap- 
plied in the South to a young pig past the age when it may be 
cooked whole) should be kept up and fattened on buttermilk, 
several weeks befoi'e being killed, as this makes the flesh ex- 
tremely delicate. It is best killed when between two and three 
months old. It should then be divided into four quarters. It 
is more delicate and wholesome eaten cold. 

Pork Steak. 

Remove the skin, beat without breaking into holes ; scald 
with boiling water, wipe dry and broil. When brown lay in a 
hot dish. Sprinkle over pepper, salt, a little sage, chopped 
onion, and parsley ; then butter profusely. 

Grate over all hard biscuit or crackers that have been browned 
and serve. — Mrs. S. T. 

Spare-ribs. 
Pork chop and pork cutlet may be cooked in the same way, 
omitting the onion if not liked. — Mrs T. 

Pork Spare-rib. 
With stuffing of sage and onions, roasted spare-rib, done 
over the potatoes, affords a good substitute for goose. 

Spare- RIBS. 
A.lways parboil spare-ribs : then broil with pepper and salt ■ 
cut in pieces three or four bones each. — Mrs. W. 

Spa/re-Rihs. 
Cut them into pieces of two or three ribs each ; put them 



120 TO COOK SPAEE-EIBS ASTD GEISKIN OE SUOET EIB8. 

into a covered stewpan and boil or stew until perfectly done. 
Just before you take them out, add salt, pepper, and minced 
parsley. 

Put on the cover and simmer until well seasoned. 

Take them out of the pan, diain and dry them. For one 
moment let them scorch on a gridiron over a bed of hot coals ; 
Jay on a hot dish ; butter each one ; pepper added ; sift over 
browned cracker an<l serve. — Mrs. S. T. 

To Cook Spaue-ribs and Griskin or Short-ribs. 
Put them on in a small quantity of water and boil for fifteen 
or twenty minutes. Gash them with a knife ; sprinkle with 
pepper and put them on a hot gridiron as near the fire as possi- 
ble ; broil quickly, but not too brown. Have some butter 
melted and pour over the meat and shut it up in the dish. 
These are good for breakfast. — Mrs. P. W. 

To Cook Backbone or Chine. 

Cut the chine in three pieces ; the large end must be about 
a foot long, the remainder cut in half. Put it in a pot of 
water and boil for two hours ; then put it in a pan, baste and 
set it in the stove to brown. Peel some Irish potatoes and put 
them in the pot ; boil till done, mash them up and season with 
pepper, a little salt, and some of the gravy dripping out of the 
chine while baking ; spread them in the dish, then lay the chine 
on top. The largest piece is generally put aside to eat cold, 
and is very nice. Turnips are good, cooked in the same wayoas 
potatoes, with the chine. 

The chine and ham of a hog are nice, corned like beef. — Mrs. 
P. W. 

Backbone Pie. 

Take the smallest end of the backbone, cut in pieces two or 
three inches long ; put in water and boil until done. Make 
nice rich pastry as for chicken pie ; line the sides of a baking 
dish witli the pastry, put in the bones, adding some water ui 



TO COOK A HAM OF POEK EOAST CHINE. 121 

which they were boiled ; also salt, butter, and pepper to taste, 
with bits of pastry. 

Cover top of bakiag-dish with pastry ; put in stove and 
brown nicely. — Mrs. G. B. 

To Cook a Ham of Pork. 

Wash off the salt and put it in a pot of water ; boil from 
four to six hours, according to size. Do not take off the skin, 
as it preserves the juice and is much better cold. It is also 
nice to slice and broil with pepper and butter over it. — Mrs. 
P. W. 

Leg of Pork Stuffed. 

Make deep incisions in the meat parallel to the bone, trim it 
so as to leave the skin longer than the flesh ; then boil some pota- 
toes, and when they are done, mash them with a piece of but- 
ter, cayenne pepper and salt, an onion finely chopped, and a 
little rubbed sage. 

With this dressing fill the incisions, draw the skin down and 
skewer it over to keep the dressing from falling out. Season 
the outside of the meat with salt, cayenne pepper and sage. 

Roast it slowly ; when done, pour the gravy in a pan, skim 
off the fat and add some browned flour wet in a little cold 
water, and boil up once. 

Serve with apple or cranberry sauce. — Mrs. A. M. D. 

To Deess Chine. 

Rub the large end with salt and saltpetre, and it will keep 
some time, or you may boil it fresh. Cut the bones of the 
other end apart, sprinkle with flour and a little salt : add one 
teacup of water, and stew. 

It will make two large dishes. — Mrs. W. 

Roast Chine. 
Chine should always be parboiled and stewed before roasting, 

to take away the gross taste which the melted fat frying from 

1] 



122 POEK EOYAL SAUSIGE MEAT. 

it gives. After this lay in the pan with one pint water in 
which it was boiled, from which all the fat has been skimmeu. 
Put in this several whole leaves of sage, to be removed before 
serving — just to get the flavor ; minced onion, and parsley. 

Baste and brown quickly that it may not dry. 

This is only stewed chine browned. — -Mrs. S. T. 

Pork Eoyal. 
Take a piece of shoulder of fresh pork, fill with grated broad 
and the crust soaked, pepper, salt, onion, sage and thyme: a 
bit of butter and lard. Place in a pan with some water ; when 
about half done, place around it some large apples ; when done, 
place your pork on a dish, with the apples round it ; put flour 
and water on your pan, flour browned, some thyme and sage ; 
boil, strain through a very small colander over your pork and 
apples. 

Seasoking foh Sausage. 

18 pounds meat. 

9 pounds back fat. 

2 ounces sage. 

4 ounces black pepper. 
12 ounces salt. — Mrs, J. P. 

Excellent Recipe for Sausage. 
12 pounds of the lean of the chine. 
6 pounds " " fat. 

5 tablespoonfuls salt. 

6 " sage. 

2 " thyme. 
5 " pepper. 

3 " sweet marjoram. 
.Mix well together. — Mrs. 8. M. 

Sausage Meat. 

25 pounds lean pieces cut from the shoulder and tender- 
loin. 



8WBETBEEAD OF HOG — SOUSE CHEESE. 123 

15 pounds fat from the back of the chine. 
1 pound salt ; a half pound of black pepper. 
4 ounces allspice. 
1 ounce sage. 
Cut the fat in small pieces and then chop it ; chop the lean 
very fine : mix all together, kneading in the seasoning. Press 
it down in small pots and pour melted lard over the top. — Mrs. 
J.J). 

Sweetbread of Hog. 
This nice morsel is between the maw and ruffle piece inside 
of the hog. Put them in soak for a day ; parboil them and 
then gash them and stew them in pepper, butter, one teacup of 
milk and a little vinegar. 

Or they are very nice fried or broiled. — Mrs. P. W. 

Souse Cheese. 

Lay the meat in cold water as cut from the hog. Let it stand 
three or four days, shifting the water each day. Scrape it and 
let it stand a day or two longer,changing the water often, and if 
it should turn warm, pour a little salt in the water. The often- 
er it is scraped, the whiter will be the souse. Boil in plenty 
of water to cover it, replenishing when needed. When tender 
enough, put it in milk- warm water, and when cold in saltwater. 
Boil the head until the bones wiU almost fall out. Clean one 
dozen or more ears and boil also ; while hot, chop very fine, and 
season with pepper and salt. 

Put in a mold or bowl with a weight on top. The feet may 
be soused whole, or cut up with the head and ears ; but it is 
not so nice. Clean them by dipping in boiling water and scrap- 
ing ; do not hold them to the fire to singe off the hair. One 
head and one dozen ears will make a good-sized cheese. — 
Mrs. W. 

To Make Souse from Hog's Feet. 

As soon as the hog is cleaned, cut off the feet and throw their 



124 TO CUBE LAKD VIRGINIA MODE OF CUEING HAMS. 

in a tub of cold water with a handful of salt ; let them remain 
covered in water until you are ready to clean them, which should 
be done as soon as possible, as they will be much whiter. To 
get the hoof off, put the feet in hot water (not above the hoof) ; 
as soon as they get hot enough, slip a knife between the foot 
and hoof, and slip it off; then scrape the foot nicely, and throw 
into a tub of clear water ; do this for several days. When you 
have scraped and changed the water for a week, then wash them 
clean and put them on to boil. First put them in a clean pot 
with a thin gruel made of corn meal ; boil until half done. 
Wash them off, and put on in clear hot water, and boil till done, 
then take them up and throw them into a firkin of clean salt 
and water ; keep closely covered to prevent them from molding. 
They are now ready to fry, which should be done by splitting 
the foot in half and fried in egg batter. — Mrs. P. W. 

To Cube Lard. 

As soon as it is taken from the hog, cut in small pieces, wash 
clean, press out the water, and put in the pot to boil, with one 
gallon of water to a vessel holding four gallons. Boil briskly 
until nearly done, or until the cracklins begin to brown, then 
cook slowly to prevent burning. The cracklins should be of a 
light brown and crisp, and will sink to the bottom when done. 
This is Leaf Lard. 

The fat off of the backbone is also very nice, done in the same 
way, and does not require soaking, unless bloody. The fat from 
the entrails can also be made into nice lard by soaking for a day 
or two in fresh water, changing it frequently, and throwing a 
handful of salt in the tub of water to draw out the blood and 
impurities. When ready to render, wash in warm water twice 
and boil in more water than you do for leaf lard. The crack- 
lins will not become crisp, but remain soft, and will sink to 
the bottom ; they are used for making soap. 

Virginia Mode of Curing Hams. 
Put one teaspoonful saltpetre on the fleshy side of each ham. 



TO OUEE BACON — FOE CUEING HAMS. 125 

Salt not too heavily for five weeks ; if the weather is freezing 
cold, six weeks ; then brush the hams well, and rub them with 
hickory ashes ; let them lie for one week, then hang and smoke 
them for six weeks with green hickory chips. After brushing, 
pack them in hickory ashes in a bulk. — Mrs. J". C. M. 

To Cure Bacon. 
Pack the meat in salt and allow it to remain five weeks. 
Then take the hams up, wash ofl", and wipe dry. Have some 
sacks made of about seven-eighths shirting, large enough to hold 
the hams and tie above the hock. Make a pot of sizing of 
equal portions of flour and corn meal, boil until thick, and dip 
each sack until the outside is well coated with sizing. Put 
the hams in bags, and tie tight with a strong twine and hang by 
the same in the smoke-house. 

Curing Bacon. 
One peck salt to five hundred pounds pork. To five gallons 
water : 

4 pounds salt. 
1 pound sugar. 
1 pint molasses. 
1 teaspoonful saltpetre. 
Mix, and after sprinkling the fleshy side of the ham with tho 
salt, pack in a tight barrel. Hams first, then shoulders, mid- 
dlings. Pour over the brine ; leave the meat in brine from four 
to seven weeks. — Mrs. Dr. J". 

For Curing Hams. 
For five hundred pounds hams. 

1 peck and 1^ gallons fine Liverpool salt. 

If pounds saltpetre. 

1 quart hickory ashes well sifteii. 

1 quart molasses. 



126 AN IMPEOVEMENT TO HAMS TO BOIL HAM. 

2 teacups cayenne pepper. 

1 teacup black pepper. 
Mix these ingredients well together in a large tub, rub U 
into each ham with a brick, or something rough to get it in 
well. Pack in a tight, clean tub and weigh down. Let the 
hams remain six weeks ; then take them out and rub each one 
on the fleshy side with one tablespoonful black pepper to avoid 
skippers. Hang in the meat house, and smoke with green 
hickory for from ten to twelve hours a day for six weeks, not 
suffering the wood to blaze. On the 1st of April, take them 
down and pack in any coal ashes or pine ashes well slaked. 
Strong ashes will rot into the meat. — Mrs. R. M. 

An Improvement to Hams. 
Sometimes very good bacon is found to be of a bad color 
when cooked. This may be remedied by keeping it in ashes 
(hickory is best) for a few weeks before using. Must then be 
hung up, with ashes adhering, until needed. This also prevents 
skippers. — Mrs. S. T. 

To Boil a Ham Weighing Ten Pounds. 
Let it Boak for twenty-four hours, changing the water two or 
three times. BoU. it slowly eight or ten hours : when done, put 
it into a dish, as nearly as possible the shape of a ham, taking 
care first to take out the bone — turn the rind down. When 
cold, turn it out into a large dish, garnish with jelly and orna- 
mental paper. Serve with the rind on. To be eaten cold. — 
Mrs. W. C. JR. 

To Boil Ham. 

Put in the water one pint vinegar, a bay leaf, a little thyme, 
and parsley. 

BoU slowly for two hours, if it weighs ten pounds; then 
bake. Soak all hams twenty-four hours before cooking.— 
Mrs. M. 



TO BOIL i[AM — BAKED HAM OE TONGUE. 127 

To lioil Ham. 
The day before yoii wish to boil a ham, scrape, wash and 
wipe it dry, and jiut it iu the sun. At night put it into water 
and soak till next morning. Then lay it with the skin down 
in a boiler of cold water, and boil slowly for five hours. If the 
ham is large, boil six hours. When perfectly done and tender, 
set the boiler aside, with the ham and liquor undisturbed, until 
cold. Then take off the skin, sprinkle black pepper over 
thickly, and sift over crackers first browned and pounded ; for 
special occasions, place at equal distances over the ham, scraped 
horseradish in lozenge shape, and edged with curled parsley. 
This mode keeps the ham juicy. — Mrs. S. T. 

Baked Ham. 

First of all, soak an old ham overnight, having first washed 
and scraped it. Next morning put in a boiler of milk-warm 
water with the skin side down. Boil slowly for four or five 
hours, according to size, and if a very large ham, six hours. 
When done, set aside, the boiler with the ham and liquor in it, 
to remain until cold ; when the skin must be taken off, and it 
must be trimmed of a nice shape. Sprinkle over two tablespoon- 
fuls black pepper. Lay the ham on a grating or twist in the 
baking-pan, in which pour a pint of water, and set it in a hot 
oven. This mode prevents the frying so disagreeable to the 
taste. After the ham is heated through, and the pepper strikes 
in, sift over cracker ; return to the oven and brown, then dec- 
orate with scraped horseradish and parsley, and serve. —Mrs. 
& T. 

Baked Ham or Tongues. 

Boil the ham and grate some powdered cracker thickly over 
it ; first rubbing it with beaten yolk of egg. Bake with butter. 
Lay slices of currant jelly around the tongue, and garnish the 
ham with parsley. — Mrs. It. 



128 BA.KKD HAM TO STUFF FEE8H CUBED HAM. 

Baked Ham. 
Most persons boil ham, but it is much better if baked prop- 
erly. Soak it for an hour in clean water and wipe dry ; next 
spread it all over with a thin batter, put it into a deep dish 
with sticks under it to keep it out of the gravy. When it is 
fully done, take off the skin and batter crusted upon the flesh 
side and set it away to cool. — Mrs. S. J. S. 

Stuffed and Baked Ham. 

After your ham is boiled, take the skin off. Take pepper, all- 
spice, cloves and mace, well pounded; add a little bread 
crumbs, and a little brown sugar ; mix with a little butter and 
water. 

Gash your ham and take out plugs ; fill in with the mixture. 
Rub the ham with an egg beaten, and grate on bread crumbs 
and white sugar. 

Put in the oven and brown. — Mrs. D. JR. 

To Stuff Fresh Cured Ham. 

Boil the ham. 

Take one-half pound grated cracker or bread. 

■^ pound butter. 

1 teaspoonful spice. 

1 teaspoonful cloves. 

1 teaspoonful nutmeg. 

1 teaspoonful ginger. 

1 teaspoonful mace. 

3 spoonfuls sugar. 

Celery-seed or celery. 

6 eggs, beaten light. 

1 spoonful mustard. 
Mix all well together and moisten with cream, if too stiff. 
Wtiist the ham is hot, make holes to the bone and fill with tliis 
mbcture. Put in the stove to brown. 



swoed ham baoon aito qeeen8. 129 

Spiced Ham. 

Salt the hams for two days ; put them in a keg and for each 
ham add : 

^ cup molasses. 
1 tablespoonful spice. 
1 tablespoonful black pepper. 
A pinch of saltpetre. 
Let them stand four days, turning each day, then hang them 
up.— Jffrs. D. R. 

Broiled Ham. 
To have this dish in a perfection, ham must first be soaked, 
then boiled nearly done, and set aside to take slices from, as 
wanted. Cut rather bhiu, lay on a gridiron over hot coals ; 
when hot through, lay on a dish, and pepper well. Pour over 
fresh butter melted, and serve. If a raw ham is used, the 
slices must be cut thicker, dropped in a pan of boiling water for 
a few minutes, then broiled as above. — Mrs. S. T. 

Fried Ham. 

The slices are always taken from a raw ham, but are most 

delicate when first simmered a short time : five minutes in a 

stewpan, dried with a clean cloth and put in a hot frying-pan, 

first removing the skin. The pan must be hot enough to 

scorch and brown both ham and gravy quickly. Lay the 

slices on a hot dish, pour into the gravy half a teacup new 

milk, pepper, and minced parsley ; boil up and serve. — Mrs. 

S. T. 

Shoulder of Bacon. 

This piece is not used until cured or smoked, it is then 
boiled with cabbage or salad, as you would the middling. It is 
inferior to the ham or middling. — Mrs. P. W. 

Bacon and Greens. 
The middling is generally used for this purpose : cut a piece 
about a foot square, boil three hours. 



loO FRIED BACON PICKLED POEK EQUAL TO FEE8H. 

Take a good head of cabbage, cut, quarter, and wash clean ; 
press the water out as dry as you can. Boil them one or two 
hours with half a pod of red pepper ; put them on a dish and 
the middling on top. You can fry the cabbage next day, and 
make a savory dish, but it does not suit dyspeptics. The thin 
part of the middling is used for frying, and is called " breakfast 
bacon."— Jfrs. P. W. 

Fried Bacon. 
Dip the ham or slices of middling in bread crumbs. Put in 
a frying-pan with chopped parsley and pepper. Just before 
taking off the fire, pour to the gravy a cup of cream. — 
Mrs. W. 

Jowl and Turnip Salad. 

This is an old Virginia dish, and much used in the spring of 
the year. 

The jowl, which must have been well smoked, must be washed 
clean, and boiled for three hours. Put in the salad, and boil 
half an hour ; if you boil too long, it will turn yellow. It is 
also good broiled for breakfast with pepper and butter over it. 

The jaw-bone should be removed before sending to the table ; 
this is easily done by running a knife around the lip and under 
the tongue. The jowl and salad should always be served with 
fresh poached eggs. — Mrs. P. TF. 

Pickled Pork Equal to Fresh. 
Let the meat cool thoroughly ; cut into pieces four to six 
inches wide, weigh them and pack them as tight as possible in 
a barrel, salting very slightly. Cover the meat with brine made 
as strong as possible. Pour off a gallon of brine and mix with 
it one tablespoonful saltpetre for every 100 pounds meat and 
I'eturn it to the barrel. Let it stand one month, then take out 
the meat, let it drain twelve hours. Put the brine in an iron 
kettle, and one quart treacle or two pounds sugar, and boil 



HOW TO COOK SALT POEK POTfED TONGUE OE HAM. 131 

until perfectly clear. When it is cold, return the meat to the 
barrel and pour on the brine. Weight it down and keep it 
covered close, and you will have the sweetest meat you ever 
tasted. 

How TO Cook Salt Pork. 
Many people do not relish salt pork fried, but it is quite 
good to soak it in milk two or three hours, then roll in Indian 
meal and fry to a light brown. This makes a good dish wijh 
mashed turnips, or raw onions cut in vinegar ; another way is 
to soak it over night in skimmed milk and bake like fresh 
pork ; it is almost as good as fresh roast pork. 

Ham Toast. 

Mince about one pint boiled lean ham. 

Add the yolks of three eggs well beaten, two tablespoonfuls 
cream, and a little cayenne pepper. 

Stir all on the fire until it thickens, and spread on hot toast 
with the crust cut off. — Mrs. J. T. B. 

Ham Toast. 

Chop very fine two spoonfuls of lean ham that has been 
cooked ; take two spoonfuls veal gravy ; a few bread crumbs. 

Put all together in a stewpau and heat it. Have ready a 
toast buttered, spread the above upon it, strew a few bread 
crumbs over it and brown it before the fire. — Mrs. S. 

Ham Relish. 

Cut a slice of dressed ham, season it highly with cayenne 
pepper and broil it brown ; then spread mustard over it, squeeze 
on it a little lemon juice, and serve quickly. 

Potted Tongue or Ham. 
Remove all skin, gristle, and outside parts from one pound 
of the lean of cold boiled tongue or ham. 

Pound it in a mortar to a smooth paste with either one- 



132 TO BOAST SHOAT TO BAEBAOaE SHOAT. 

quarter pound of the fat, or with two ounces fresh butter , 
Season with cayenne, pounded mace and allspice. 

Press it well into pots and cover with clarified butter or fat. 

To Roast Shoat. 
The hind-quarter is considered best. Cut off the foot, leav- 
ing the hock quite short. Wash well and put into boiling 
water ; simmer iintil done, adding salt and pepper just before 
lifting from the kettle ; salt put in sooner hardens and toughens. 
Place the meat in a baking-pan and score across, in the direction 
in which it is to be carved. Skim several ladlefuls from the 
top of the kettle and pour over ; after this has dried off, 
sprinkle over a little salt and pepper, cover with an egg beaten 
stiff, sift over powdered cracker, and set to brown. Lay around 
sweet potatoes first parboiled, then cut in thick slices. Serve 
with minced parsley and thyme, both on the meat and in the 
gravy. — Mrs. S. T. 

To Roast a Poke Quarter of Shoat. 
Put it on in hot water, boil for half an hour ; take it out, 
put in a pan, gash it across with a sharp knife, in diamond 
shapes, grease it with lard and dredge with flour, ])epper and a 
little salt. Peel some good Irish potatoes, lay them around the 
pan and set in the stove to brown, basting frequently. This 
meat should be cooked done, as it is not good the least 
rare. Grate some bread crumbs over it and serve. — Mrs. 
P. W. 

To Barbecue Shoat. 
Lay the shoat in water till ready for use ; if small, it will 
cook in an hour. Put in the oven with two spoonfuls of water, 
a piece of lard, and dredge with flour. When ready for use, 
pour in half a teacup of walnut catsup, and, if not fat, a pieco 
of butter. 



shoat jowl eoast pig. is3 

Shoat Jowl. 
The upper half of the head is what is generally used for 
what is called " The Pig's-head Stew." Another nice dish may 
be made of the under jaw or jowl by parboiling until the jaw- 
bone can be taken out; always adding pepper and salt just 
before it is done. When perfectly tender, score across ; pepper 
and salt again, cover with beaten egg, then with cracker. Set 
in a pan with some of the water in which it was boiled. Put 
In a hot oven and brown. — Mrs. S. T. 

Roast Pig. 

When roasted whole, a pig should not be under four nor over 
six weeks old. In town, the butcher prepares for roasting, 
but it is well to know, in the country, how this may be done. 
As soon as the pig is killed, throw it into a tub of cold water, 
to make it tender ; as soon as cold, take it by the hind leg, and 
plunge into scalding, not boiling water (as the last cooks the 
skin so that the hair can with difficulty be removed), shake it 
about until the hair can be removed by tlie handful. When al) 
that is possible has been taken off in this way, rub from the 
tail up to the end of the nose with a coarse cloth. Take off 
the hoofs, scrape and wash the ears and nose until perfectly 
clean. The nicest way to dress it is to hang it by the hind 
legs, open and take out the entrails ; wash well with water, 
with a little soda dissolved in it; rinse again and again, and 
leave hanging an hour. Wrap in a coarse cloth wrung out o* 
cold water and lay on ice or in a cool cellar until next morning," 
when, if the weather is warm, it must be cooked. It should 
never be used the same day that it is killed. 

First prepare the stuffing of the liver, heart and haslets of 
the pig, stewed, seasoned, and chopped. Mix with these an 
equal quantity of boiled potatoes mashed ; add a large spoonful 
of butter, with some hard-boiled eggs, parsley and thyme, 
chopped fine, pepper and salt. 

Scald the pig on the inside, dry it and rub with pepper and 



134 TO STEW pig's head and jowl— shoat's head. 

salt, fill and sew up. Bend the fore legs under the body, the 
hind legs forward, under the pig, and skewer to keep in position. 
Place in a large baking-pan, pour over one qiiart of boiling 
water. Have a lump of fresh butter tied up in a clean rag ; 
rub it all over the pig, then sprinkle over pepper and salt, put- 
ting some in the pan with a bunch of herbs ; invert over it a 
baking-pan while it simmers, and steam until entirely done. Un- 
derdone pork, shoat, or pig, is both unpalatable and unwhole- 
some. Remove the ])au, rub over with the butter and baste 
often. "When of a fine brown, cover the edges of a large dish 
with a deep fringe of curled parsley ; first sift over the pig pow- 
dered cracker, then place it, kneeling, in the green bed. Place 
in its moxith an orange or a red apple ; and, if eaten hot, serve 
with the gravy in a tureen or sauce-boat. It is much nicer 
cold ; served witJi little mounds of grated horseradish amongst 
the parsley. ^ — Mrs. i>. 2\ 

To Stew Pig's Head and Jowl. 

Clean the head and feet ; take out the bone above the nose ; 
cut off the ears, clean them nicely. Separate the jowl from the 
head ; take care of the brains to add to the stew. Put the head, 
jowl, feet and part of the liver in water sufficient to keep 
well covered ; boil until quite done. Split the feet to put on 
the dish ; hash the head and liver ; but do not spoil the jowl, 
which must be put in the middle of the dish and surrounded 
with the feet and hash. Put all of the hash, jowl and feet in 
the pot and season with a cup of cream, a lump of butter, pep- 
per and salt, a tablespoonful walnut catsup, an onion chopped 
fine, a stalk of celery. 

A teaspoonful mustard improves it. 

Stew half an hour ; thicken the gravy with grated bread. — 
Mrs. P. W. 

Shoat's Head. 

Get a shoat's head and clean it nicely. Boil and chop iii 
pieces. Season with : 



BHOAT S HEAD, TO STEW T 

2 tablespoonfuls tomato catsup. 

2 tablespoonfuls walnut catsuj). 

2 cups water. 

A little flour. 

1 large spoonful butter. 

Pepper and salt. 
Have two or three hard-boiled eggs, cut them in half and lay 
on the top of the head ; set it in the oven to bake. 

Veal or mutton liead, can be cooked in the same way, but 
are not so nice. — Jtfrs. R. 

Shoat's Head, to Stew. 

Clean the head and feet ; and put tliem on to parboil with 
the liver. Then S2)lit up the liead, through the noso, taking 
out the bones. Cut the meat from the feet and chop up with 
the liver, season this with pejiper and salt. 

Lay the head open and fill it witli this miuce and the yolks 
of some hard-boiled eggs: if this does not fill the head, add 
some grated bread crumbs or crackers and butter. 

Sew up the head and bind it with thread ; put it in the pot 
with the water it has been parboiled in and let it stew slowly. 
Take up the head, and add to the gravy a lump of butter, rolled 
in floiar, some browning and some walnut catsuj). Pour this 
over the head, which should be brown. If the shoat is not 
very small, use bread and butter instead of the liver. — Mrs. M. 

To Hash Pig's Head. 
Take head, feet, and haslet of pig ; boil them until done, then 
cut them vip fine, taking out the bones. 

Add black pepper, salt, a little sage. 
2 onions chopped fine. 
A little red pepp . , 
1 teaspoonful mace. 
1 teaspoonful cloves. 
Put it back in the same vessel with liquor and cook till 



136 BEEF AND VEAL. 

done, then thicken with a little flour. Add two hard-boiled 
eggs and one cup walnut catsup. — Mrs. Dr. J". 



BEEP AND VEAL. 

In selecting beef, see that the flesli is firm and of a clear red. 
and the fat of a yellowish white. In buying a quarter of beef, 
it is better to have it cut up by the butcher, if you are living 
in town. The hind quarter is considered better, and sells higher 
than the fore quarter. If a roasting piece is desired, the sirloin 
from the hind quarter is usually preferred. It is not generally 
known, however, that the second cut of the rib-roast from the 
fore quarter is the finest roast from the beef. 

When the bone has been removed, and the meat skewered in 
the shape of a round, by the butcher, it is well to roast it on a 
spit before an open fire. If the latter cannot be obtained, how- 
ever, plunge the beef for a moment in boiling water, then rub 
well with salt and peppei-, dredge with flour, and place on a 
little grate or trivet which will readily go in a baking-pan. In 
this pour about a pint of the water in which the beef was 
scalded. Place it in a very hot oven, with an inverted tin 
plate on top of the roast. Remove this plate often to baste 
the meat. When nearly done, which will be in about two 
hours for a roast of six pounds, baste several times and bake a 
nice brown. Season the gravy with minced onion, parsley and 
thyme, add a little salt and pepper and a tablespoonful of the 
meat flavoring of which a receipt was given in the general direc- 
tions about meat. Serve the gravy in a sauce-tureen, so that 
each person may choose whether to eat the beef with gravy or 
with the juice that escapes from the meat while it is bein" 
carved. The latter mixed with grated horseradish is preferred 
to gravy by some persons. 



BEEF AND VEAL. 137 

Every portion of the beef, from head to feet is useful and 
delicious when properly prepared. 

The rounds and r\imp pieces are generally used for beef a la- 
mode. 

Fresh beef from the ribs, boiled with turnips, is considered 
a nice dish by some persons. 

For steak, nothing is so nice as tenderloin or porter-house 
steak. I take this occasion to protest against the unwholesome 
custom of frying steak in lard. When inconvenient to broil, it 
may be deliciously cooked by being first beaten till tender, then 
laid in a hot frying-pan, closely covered, and cooked without 
lard or butter, in its own juices. When scorched brown on 
both sides, biit not hard, remove the pan from the fire, pepper 
and salt the steak, and put a large tablespoonful of fresh butter 
on it. Press this in with a knife and fork, turning the steak, 
so that each side may absorb the butter. Serve on a hot dish. 
The whole process will not consume five minutes. Some per- 
sons think it best to add the salt after the steak is done, though 
many good housekeepers salt and pepper the steak before 
before broiling it. Beefsteak should be cooked rare ; it is a 
great mistake to cook it till hard and indigestible. 

The parts most suitable for soup are the head, neck, shank, 
and all the unsightly parts. After the bones are broken and 
the meat boiled from them, the liquor is used for soup, while 
the moat, picked or cut to pieces, will make an excellent stew 
seasoned with potatoes, turnips, sweet herbs, one tablespoonful 
of butter and the same of meat flavoring. 

It is well always to keep brine on hand for corning beef. 
All the parts not de.sirable for roast or stea,k aad better be 
corned. 

The beef, after being dressed, should be hung up by the hind 
legs, with a smooth, round piece of timber sufficiently strong 
to hold the weight, passed thi'ough the legs at the hock, or run 
between the tendon and bone, with short pegs to keep the legs 
stretched apart. Then with a sharp axe, standing behind the 

12 



138 BEEF TO ROAST BEEF. 

suspended beef, split it down the backbone, severing it in half. 
Then pass a knife tlirough the ribs, leaving two or three short 
ribs on the hind-quarter. Sever the backbone with an axe. 
Then cut with a sharp knife straight across the parallel line 
with the spinal bone, which piece mvist be divided into two 
pieces, the sirloin and steak. Then take off two rounds, or 
three, according to the size of the animal, cutting with a sharp 
kuife, and cutting the bone with a meat gaw or axe, as near the 
joints as possible, wliich leaves the shin-bone. 

The fore quarter then is divided into four pieces, after taking 
off the shoulder, wliich may be divided into three or more 
pieces. 

The loin of veal is the nicest part, and is always roasted. 

The fillets and knuckles may be stewed and roasted. 

The latter is nicest for soup. 

The breast may be stewed or roasted. 

The cutlets are nicest from the legs or fillet. 

The head is a dish for soup, stew or pie. 

Sweetbreads from the throat make a delicious dish, much 
piized by epicureans. 

The feet, boiled till the bones drop out, make a delightful 
dish, fried in batter, while the water in which they are boiled 
makes excellent jelly. 

Veal, to be eaten in its perfection, should be killed when from 
four to six weeks old. 

Beef. 
The sirloin, or fore and middle r'ibs, are best for roasting. 
The steaks are best cut from the ribs, or the inner part of 
the sirloin ; shank, tail and head make nice soup. — Mrs. W. 

To Roast Beef. 
Lay the meat on some sticks in a dripping-pan or other ves- 
sel, so that it will not touch the water which it is necessary to 
have in rliri bottom. Season with salt and pepper, and put in 



EIB BOAST OF BEEF — TO ROAST BEEF. 13S 

the oven three or four hours before it is wanted for the table. 
Baste it often with the water in the bottom of the pan, renew- 
ing it as often as it gets low. This makes sweet, juicy roast 
beef. The great secret of it Ls, not to have the meat touch the 
water in the bottom of the pan, and to baste it often. Tough, 
unpromising pieces of beef are best cooked by steaming them 
an hour and a half or so and then putting them in the oven 
and roasting as much longer. 

Crackers, first browned and then pounded, should always be 
kept to sift over roast meats : and curled parsley to garnish 
with. Grated horseradish is also excellent with the roast. 
—Mrs. S. T. 

Rib Roast of Beef. 
Get, from the butcher, a rib-roast — the second cut is best — 
and get him to take out the bones, and roll and skewer it : if 
this is not convenient, it can be done at home with a sharp 
knife. Before roasting, take out the wooden skewers put in at 
market, unroll, season well with salt and pepper and anything 
else liked, and roll again tightly, fastening securely with the 
iron skewer pins. Put it in a pan on a little iron griddle or 
trivet, made for the purpose to keep it just over the pint of 
water in the pan. Pepper and salt freely, dredge with flour 
and baste. Some persons like half a teacup of pepper vinegar, 
poured over just before it is done ; and minced onion, thyme 
and parsley added to the gravy, which should be brown. — 
Mrs. B. 

To Roast Beef. 

The sirloin is the nicest for the purpose. 

Plunge the beef in boiling water and boil for thirty minutes ; 
then put it in the stove-pan; skim the top of the water in 
which it has been boiled, and baste the roast, after dredging it 
with flour ; pepper and salt to taste. Baste frequently, and 
roast till done. — Mrs. P. W. 



140 bkef a la mode. 

Beef a la Mode. 
Take, from a round of fresh beef, the bone ; beat the meat 
aO over slightly to make tender. Grate a loaf of bread, mix 
with it equal quantities of — 

Thyme and parsley, rubbed fine. 

1 onion. 

The marrow from the bone. 

^ pound suet. 

Pepper and salt, cloves and nutmeg to tlie taste. 
Mix these ingredients with three eggs well beaten : fill the 
place from whence came the bone, and what is left rub all over 
the round : fasten well with a tape, tied round to keep in 
shape. Cover the pan with slices of bacon, lay the beef upon 
them, baste with butter : pour in the pan a pint of water. 
Cover closely and stew gently for six hours ; when thoroughly 
done, take out the beef, skim the fat from the gravy, strain into 
a saucepan, set it on the stove and stir into it one teacup Port 
wine. Let it come to a boil and send to the table in a sauce 
tureen. You may, for supper, dish cold : dress with vegetable 
flowers, whites of eggs boiled hard and chopped fine. — Mrs. 
J. W. jS. 

Seef a la Mode. 

Take a round or a rump piece of beef, take out the bone, the 
gristle and all the tough pieces about the edges. Fill the cavi- 
ties from which the bone was taken, with suet, and fat salt 
pork. 

Press this so as to make it perfectly round, pass around a 
coarse, strong piece of cloth, so as to hold it firmly in shape. 
If the round is six inches thick, the cloth must be six inches 
wide, leaving the top and bottom open. With a larding needle, 
fill this thickly with strips of fat pork, running through from 
top to bottom and about one inch apart each way. Set this in 
a baking-pan, pour over : 

1 teacup boiling water, 

1 teacup boiling vinegar ; mixed. 



BOILED BEEF AND TURNIPS. 141 

Add to this one heaping tablespoonful brown sugar and a 
bunch of herbs. 

Sprinkle over the beef liberally with salt and black pepper ; 
chop one small onion fine, and lay over top of the beef. Sim- 
mer this for two or three hours, basting frequently and keeping 
an inverted tin plate over the beef except when basting. If the 
gravy stews down too much, add stock or broth of any kind. 
Turn it over, and let the top be at the bottom. When it is 
done and tender, skim the fat from the gravy. Pour over : 

2 tablespoonfuls celery vinegar. 

2 tablespoonfuls pepper. 

2 tablespoonfuls made mustard. 

1 wineglassful acid fruit jelly. 
Simmer and bake for two hours longer, frequently basting, 
that it may be soft and seasoned through and through. Take the 
beef from the pan and remove the cloth ; place in a large flat dish, 
pour over the gravy, and over this one teacup of mushroom sauce. 
Sift finely powdered cracker over the top and garnish with 
grated or scraped horseradish and parsley. — Mrs. S. T 

Seef a la Mode. 
To 10 pounds of beef, 4 onions chopped up. 
1 tablespoonful allspice, 1 teaspoonful mace. 
Red pepper and salt to the taste. 
1 pint strong vinegar. 
Rub the beef in the mixture for three or four days, then cook, 
with all these ingredients. The H piece is generally the part 
taken for this purpose. — Mrs. M. B. 

Boiled Beef and Turnips. 

The brisket or breast of beef is nicest for boiling. Keep 
sufficiently covered in water, boiling three hours, or until 
tender. 

Peel and slice half a dozen turnips and put with beef, boil- 
ing until soft enough to mash with a spoon, which will require 



143 TO COLLAR BEEF BKIOFSTEAK BROILED. 

about thirty minutes. Dress with one teacup of milk, peppei 
aiid salt to the taste. 

Stew together a short time and put in bottom of dish with 
beef on the top.— J/?-«. P. ^¥. 

To Collar Beep. 

Take a flank of fresh beef, stew it with popper, salt, allspice, 
saltpetre, thyme, and sage. 

Then roll as hard as you can, and wind a string around it ; 
then boil till done. It must be served up cold, cut in slices. — 
Mrs. M. P. 

Rolled Beefsteak. 

Beat a large teiider steak thoroughly and carefully. 

Sprinkle over salt, pepper, sage, minced onion, minced pars- 
ley, and bits of butter. 

Have ready some mealy Irish potatoes mashed fine, and 
seasoned with a little butter and salt. Spread over all, and 
roll up tightly : fasten the ends and sides securely with skewer 
pins. Place in a pan with such broth or gravy as may be on 
hand ; if none, two teacups of boiling water, aud one small 
minced onion, pepjjer, salt, and one slice of pork. 

Simmer and baste as you would a roast duck. Sift over it 
browned cracker, pounded fine. Very nice. — Mrs. H. T. 

Beefsteak Broiled. 
Cut the steak one-half inch thick ; it should then be beaten 
with a steak beater or pestle. The griddle should be hot and on 
the coals : place the steak on the griddle, and as soon as seared, 
tui'ii it ; when both sides are seared, place it in a pan, season 
it with pepper, salt, and butter : repeat this for every piece of 
steak, and place in the pan, which sliould be kept closely cov- 
ered without being on the tire. If your heat is sufficient, from 
threa to five minutes is sufficient to cook. — Mrs. P. W. 



BROILED STEAK — BEEFSTKAK FKIED WITH ONIONS. 143 

BiioiLED Steak. 
A porter-house steak is considered, by some persons, best, 
Dtbers prefer the tenderloin. Beat either tender, and place on 
a gridiron over coals, freqnently turning. Have ready a hot 
dish, place the steak on it, pepper and salt well, then with a 
knife and fork profusely butter, with one large tablespoonful 
fresli butter, turning and pressing it so as to absorb the butter ; 
pepper again and set the dish over boiling water until -wanted, 
when it will be found tender and juicy, if not cooked too long 
on a gridiron. One tablespoonful pepper vinegar gives this the 
taste of venison, and to this may be added one tablesi)oonful 
made mustard, for those who like highly seasoned food. — Mrs. 
S. T. 

How TO Cook Beefsteak. 
Take a thin, long-handled frying-pan, put it on the stove and 
heat it quite hot. In this put the pieces of steak previously 
pounded, but do not put a particle of butter in the frying-pan 
and do not salt the steak. Allow the steak to merely glaze over 
and then turn it quickly to the other side, turning it several 
times in this maimer, until it is done. Four minutes is sufficient 
for cooking. When done, lay it on the platter, previously 
warmed ; buttei- and salt, and set a moment in the hot oven. 
Allow the steak to heat but a moment on each side ; this helps 
it to retain all its sweet juices, and putting on the salt at the 
last monent, after it is on the platter, draws out its juices. — 
Mrs. S. T. 

Beefsteak Fried with Onions. 

Prepare the steak as for broiling, pepper and roll in flour and 
fry in lard ; remove the steak from the pan when done ; add to 
the gravy one chopped onion, pepper, salt, one-half teacup water, 
and a little mustard. 

Cook a few minutes, put the steak in the gravy — lot it remaiu 
a short time ; send to the table hot. — Mrs. P. W, 



144 TO FET STKAK FRIZZLED BEEF. 

To Fry Steak. 
Hunt tip all the pickle and take from each one teacup vinegar, 
lay the steak in a deep dish, pour over the vinegar and let it 
stand one hour. Take a clean frying-pan, throw in one ounce 
butter, and some of the vinegar from the dish, sufficient to stew 
ihe steak. If managed properly, when done it will be imbedded 
in a thick gravy. Put the steak in a hot dish, before the fire ; 
into the pan, put one spoonful black pepper, one or two of cat- 
sup, and one of raw mustard. — Mrs. iS. 

Fried Steak. 

Get from the butcher a tenderloin or porter-house steak. Do 
not wash it, but be careful to lay it on a clean block and beat it 
well, but not into holes, nor so as to look ragged. Sprinkle 
over pepper and salt, then dredge with flour on both sides. 

Have ready a hot frying-pan, lay in the steak and cover 
closelj'. The juice of the meat will be sufficient to cook it. 
Turn often, as the pan must be hot enough to scorch and make 
the steak and gravy brown. 

Before it gets hard or overdone, butter liberally ; place in a 
hot dish. Pepper again, and, if preferred, pour over first one 
tablespoonful pepper vinegar, then one tablespoonful made mus- 
tard, and turn in over all the hot gravy. Sift powered cracker 
over and serve. — Mrs. S. T. 

Frizzled Beef. 

Shred some dried beef, parboil it until it is sufficiently freshen- 
ed, drain off the water and add enough boiling water to cover 
it. Rub equal quantities of butter and flour together until 
smooth, then add to the beef. Beat up three eggs, yolks and 
whites together, stir these in with a little pepper, a couple of 
minutes before taking from the fire. This is to be served hot on 
toast. — Mrs. F. 



FEIG'ASSEED BEEF TO STEW A BUMP OF BEEF. l45 

Fricasseed BBEr. 
Take any piece of beef from tlie fore quarter, such as is gen- 
erally used for corning, and cook it tender in just water enough 
to have it all evaporate in cooking. When about half done, put 
in salt enough to season well, and half teaspoonful pepper. If 
the water should not boil away soon enough, turn it ofl', and let 
tlie beef fry fifteen minutes — it is better than the best roast 
beef. Take two tablespoonfuls flour, adding the fat — when 
mixed, pour on the hot juice of the meat. Serve with apple 
sauce.— Mrs. D. 

Beep Stew. 
This is best when made of slices cut from an underdone roast, 
and simmered in any liquor in which meat has been boiled, but 
if none is at hand, use water instead — just covering the beef. 
To a half dozen slices of the usual size, add : 
2 tablespoonfuls pepper vinegar. 
1 tablespoonful of made mustard. 
1 tablespoonful of acid fruit jelly. 
1 tablespoonful of butter. 
1 teaspoonful salt. 
1 teaspoonful celery-seed. 
1 saltspoonful black pepper. 
1 raw turnip, grated or scraped fine. 
1 mashed Irish potato. 
Add minced onion and parsley. 
Boil up and serve. 
Cold beefsteak or mutton chops, which are always unfit to 
appear upon the table a second time, are delicious cut up in 
small pieces and mixed or stewed separately in this way. — Mrs. 
S. T. 

To Stew a Rump of Beef. 
Stufi" the beef with shallots, thyme, parsley, chopped fine, 
slips of bacon, pepper, salt and allspice. Then lay it in a pot 
with water suificient to keep it from burning before it is done. 

13 



146 LEBANON STEW — TONGUE A LA TEEEAPIN. 

Thicken the giavy with burnt flour and butter, and when it is 
served up, pour a little wine over it and strew the top with all- 
spice. — Mrs. M. P. 

Lebanon Stew. 
Take scraps of raw beef, such as are not fit for boiling, cut 
very fine, picking out all the strings, and put into a kettle, and 
more than cover with cold water. Let it boil several hours, or 
until the water is nearly all gone. Season with butter, jiepper 
and salt. It is rich and needs but little seasoning. Serve hot, 
as you would hash. — Mrs. S. T. 

Beep Collaps. 
\\ pounds lean beef, cliopped fine. 
1 tablespoonful lard. 
1 tablespoonful of butter. 
With enough water to cook it. 
After being well cooked, thicken gravy, and season with vine- 
gar and pepper. — Mrs. H. J). 

To Stew Beep Tongue. 
Put a fresh tongue in water sufficient to cover it, and let it 
simmer six or seven hours. Skim the gravy well. Half a]i 
hour before dishing it, add one-half wineglassful wine, one-half 
wineglassful walnut catsup, a little mace, and a few cloves to 
the gravy, and stew awhile together. — Mrs. S. T. 

Tongue i la Terrapin. 

Take a freshly salted tongue and boil tender ; take out, and 
split it, stick a few cloves in, cut up a small onion, put in some 
sticks of mace, and a little brown flour. 

Have water enough in a stewpan to cover the tongue; mix 
in the ingredients, before putting in the tongue. Three hard- 
boiled eggs chopped up fine and put in the stew. Add a glass 



TONGUE TOAST TO STEW BEEF KIDNEYS. 147 

of wine j ust before taking up. Send to tlie table Lot, gariiished 
with hard boiled eggs cut in rings. — Mrs. L. G. 

Tongue Toast. 
Take cold tongue that has been well boiled, mince fine, mix 
it well with cream or a little milk, if there is no cream. Add 
the beaten yolk of one egg and give it a simmer over the fire. 
Toast nicely some thin slices of stale bread and, having buttered, 
lay them in a flat disli, that has been heated, then cover the 
toast with the tongue and serve up directly. — Mrs. S. 

To EoAST AN Ox Heart. 

Wash it well and clean all the blood carefully from the pipes ; 
parboil it ten or fifteen minutes in boiling water ; drain and 
put in a stuffing which has been made of bread crumbs, minced 
suet or butter, thyme or parsley, salt, pepper, and nvitmeg. 

Put it down to roast while hot, baste it well with butter, and 
just before serving, stir one tablespoonful currant jelly into the 
gravy. To roast, allow twenty minutes to every pound. — Mrs. 
A. M. D. 

Beef Heart. 

Parboil the heart until nearly tender, then gash and stuff 
with rich stuffing of loaf bread, seasoned with onion, salt, 
pepper, and sage. Then put in a pan and bake, turning it 
several times. Baste with gravy whilst baking. — Mrs. tF. H. 

Stewed Kidneys. 
Soak the kidneys for several hours, put them on to boil until 
tender. Roll them in flour, add a lump of butter the size of an 
egg, two spoonfuls catsup — any kind will answer, though walnut 
is the best ; pepper and salt to the taste. Stew them until well 
seasoned.-— J[frs. P. W. 

To Stew Beep Kidneys. 
Cut into pieces and stew in water, with a nice addition of 



148 KIDNEYS FRIED — BROILED KIDNEYS. 

savory herbs, pepper and salt, and a handful flour to thicken 
the gravy ; flavor and color the latter with burnt sugar. — 
Mrs. H. 

Kidneys Fried. 
After plunging in boiling water, cut them in thin slices and 
fry in hot butter ; add pepper, salt, and toss them for a few 
minutes in rich brown gravy. — Mrs. M. 

Beef Kidney, to Fry. 
Trim and cut the kidney in slices ; season them with salt and 
pepper, and dredge well with flour; fry on both sides, and 
when done, lift them out, empty the pan and make a gravy for 
them with a small piece of butter, one dessertspoonful flour, 
pepper, salt, and a cup of boiling water. Shake these around 
and give them a minute's simmering ; add a little tomato or 
mushroom catsup, lemon juice, vinegar, or any good sauce 
to give it a flavor. Minced herbs are to many tastes an 
improvement to this dish, to which a small quantity of onion 
may be added when it is liked. — Mrs. A. M. D. 

Kidneys Grilled. 
Prepare them as for stewing, cut each kidney in half and dip 
them in egg beaten up with salt and pepper ; bread-crumb 
them, dip them in melted butter, bread-crumb them again, then 
grill before a slow fire ; serve with Worcestershire or some 
other sauce. — Mrs. Jf. 

Broiled Kidneys. 

Plunge some kidneys in boiling water ; open them down the 
centre, but do not separate them; peel and pass a skewer 
across them to keep them open ; pepper, salt, and dip them in 
melted butter. 

Broil them over a clear fire on both sides, doing the cut side 
first ; remove the skewer, have ready some maitre d'hote sauce, 
viz.: butter beaten up with chopped parsley, salt and pepper, 



-FETED LIYEE. 149 

and a little lemon juice. Put a small piece in the hollow of 
each kidney and serve hot. — Mrs. P. 

Beep's Liver. 
Skin the liver, cut in slices and lay in salt water, as soon as 
it comes from market. Fry in lard with pepper, very brown. 
Season to taste. — Mrs. G. 

To Fry Liver. 
The slices must be cut thin, as they require some time to fry ; 
brown both sides ; when taken up, add butter and salt to taste. 
Fry in hot lard.— Jfrs. P. W. 

Beef Liver with Onions. 
Slice the liver rather thin, and throw into salt and water. 
Meantime slice the onions and put into a deep frying-pan, just 
covered with water, and boil until done, keeping it closely cov- 
ered. When the water has all boiled away, put in a heaping 
spoonful of sweet lard, and fry until the onions are a light 
brown. Take them up in a deep plate ; set them on the back 
of the stove or range to keep hot, and fry the liver in the same 
pan, adding more lard if there is not enough. Season all with 
salt and pepper, cutting the liver in slices suitable to help one 
person. Make a little mound of fried onions on each piece, 
grate pounded cracker on the top, and serve. — Mrs. S. T. 

Dried Liver for Relish. 
Salt the Kver well for four days ; hang to smoke and dry. 
Cut in very thin slices, and broU in pepper and butter. — 
Mrs. W. 

Fried Liter. 

Cut the slices thin, scald them for some minutes, put them in 

a pan with hot lard, and fry slowly till browned on both sides ; 

add a little salt and pepper. Take up the liver, and pour into 

the pan half a teacup of water ; let it boU a few minutes ; put 



150 TO STEW BEAINS — TO FKY BEAINS. 

the ]h er back, stir it up, and cover it up for a short time to 
keep it from being Lard. 

Kidneys can be cooked the same way, excepting you must 
add some butter, as they are A'ery dry. — Mrs. P. W. 

To Stew Brains. 
Have them thoroughly soaked in salt water to get the blood 
out. Put them in a stewpan with water enough to cover them ; 
boil half an hour, pour off the water, and add one teacup of 
cream or milk, salt, pepper, and butter the size of an egg. 
Boil well together for ten minutes, when put into the dish. 
Add one tablespoonful vinegar. — Mrs. P. W. 

To Dress Brains. 
Lay in salt and water, then either scramble like eggs, or beat 
the yolks of eggs with a little ilour ; dip the brains in and fry 
them.— Jfrs. W. 

To Fry Beef Brains. 
Pour over the brains salt water, let them remain for an hour, 
changing the water to draw the blood out, then pour over them 
some boiling water and remove the skin. Beat up two eggs, 
and make a batter with a little flour, bread crumbs and ci-ackers. 
Season with pepi)er and salt. Fry in hot lard. — Mrs. P. W. 

To Fry Brains. 
Soak the brains for several hours in weak salt water to get 
out the blood ; drain and put them in a saucepan and pour very 
little boiling water on ; simmer a few minutes. Handle them 
lightly, and arrange so as to form round cakes, without break- 
ing. Pepper them and use very little salt; brains require very 
little salt. Have ready a beaten egg, and cover the top of the 
cakes with it, using a spoon to put it on. Sift over grated 
cracker and fry in hot lard ; serve the other side the same way, 
Keep closely covered while frying. — Mrs. S. T. 



brain croquettes — beef tripe. 151 

Brain Croquettes. 
Wash the bvains of three heads veiy thoroughly, until they 
are free from membraneous matter and perfectly white. Then 
scramble with three eggs. When cold, roll into egg-shaped 
balls, with floured hands ; dip in beaten egg, then in cracker o- 
stale bread crumbs, and fry in lard. — Mrs. li. L. 

To Prepare Tripe. 
Empty the contents of the stomach of a fat beef ; put it in 
boiling water, one piece at a time, to prevent getting too hot. 
Scrape with a sharp knife, then put it in a vessel of cold water 
with salt ; wash thoroughly, and change the salt water every day 
for four or five consecutive days ; when perfectly white, boil in 
a very clean vessel of salt water. Then jjut it in vinegar until 
you wish to use it. Cut it in pieces of three or four iiiche.s 
square, and fry in egg batter. — Mrs. J". 11. 

Tripe. 
The moment the tripe is taken out, wash it thoroughly in 
many cold waters. (If you have quiok-lime, sift it over the 
dark inner coat, and instantly scrape oft" the coat.) Cut it in 
four parts. Have ready boiling water, dip and scrape until it 
becomes quite white. Prepare weak brine with a considerable 
mixture of meal ; let it soak a day. Continue to shift it every 
day, and every other day scrape it ; this must be done for a 
week, and then make nice gruel, in which it must be well 
boiled, first tying it up in a cloth. When boiled, take it out 
of the cloth, and lay it in a weak brine for a night, after which 
it maj' be put with the feet. — Mrs. li. 

Beef Tripe. 
Clean the tripe carefully. Soak several days in salt water, 
then ill clear water, changing several times. Cut in slices, boil 
perfectly done, dip in a batter of egg (beateir light), milk and 



152 TO ¥EY l-aCPE ^BEEF SAUSAGE. 

flour, or sift meal over it. Ery or broil. Season with peppei 
and salt. 

To Fry Tbipe. 
Cut the tripe after it has been boiled, into strips about four 
inches wide and six long. Make a batter with two eggs, one 
teacup of flour and a little milk. Pepper the tripe and roll it 
in the batter. Fry in a pan of hot lard ; as soon as one side 
is done, turn it over on the other side. — Mrs. P. W. 

Gravy fob Koast Beef. 

When the joint is done to a turn, dish it and place before 
the fire ; then carefully remove the fat from the dripping-pan, 
and pour the gravy into the dish, not over the meat, as is the 
custom of inexperienced cooks, who, moreover, ruthlessly drown 
it with a cupful of boiling water or highly flavored made-gravy. 
This is an error, for there is always a sufficient quantity of 
natural gravy in good meat to render the use of foreign sauces 
superfluous. — 3frs. J*. 
■ \ 

Bbown Gravy. 
Take the gravy that drips from the meat ; add a little water, 
one spoonful butter, a little flour, a little pepper and a little 
salt. Stew all together. — Miss E. P. 

Bologna Sausage. 
Take ten pounds of beef, and four pounds pork, two-thirds 
lean and one-third fat ; chop very fine and mix well together. 
Season with six ounces fine salt, one ounce black pepper, one- 
half ounce cayenne pepper, and sage to the taste. — Mrs. 
Dr. S. 

Beep Sausage. 

Take tough beef and run it through a sausage machine. Form 
the pulp into shapes an inch thick, and the size of a commov 
beefsteak. Season to the taste. — Mrs. C. 



cow HEEL — A FEENCH DISH. 153 

Cow Heel. 
As soon as the beef is killed, throw the feet in cold water, 
and let them remain during the night. In the morning, put 
them into a pot of cold water and let them boil uutU you find 
you can easily take off the hair and the hoof with a knife ; take 
care as the water boils away to replenish with boiling water. 
Have ready strong brine, not boiled nor strong enough to bear 
an egg, and the moment the feet are stripped, throw them in. 
Let them stand one night and in the morning pour the brine 
from them and put to them a fresh brine, with a small quantity 
of vinegar. In a day or two, they are fit for use. — Mrs. It. 

Cow Heel Fried. 

Buy the feet prepared at the butchers ; boil well done. Sea- 
son with salt and pepper. 

Have ready an egg batter ; fiy brown, and serve hot. A nice 
bi-eakfast dish. — JKrs. Ji. L. O. 

To Fky Beef Heel. 
Have a batter made of eggs, flour, etc., as for tripe. Split uie 
feet into convenient shapes and fry in hot lard. Pour some 
vinegar over them while frying. — Mrs. P. W. 

Daube Froide. 

Take a beef shin, chop in several places to break the bone, 
keep it cooking in just water enough to prevent burning, till 
it falls to pieces. 

Then after taking out the bones, season with one heaping 
teaspoonftil flour rubbed into one tablespoonful butter, red and 
black pepper, salt and celery seed. 

Stew it long enough to cook the flour. Pour into a deep dish, 
cover with a plate, and put weights on it to press it. Eat cold, 
as souse. — Mrs. O. M. A. 

A French Dish. 
To two beef feet, put four gallons water ; set on the fire at* 



ISl BRINE rOK BKKF — TO COEN BEEF. 

eight o'clock in the morning. When the bones have dropped 
off add the half of one large onion, two red peppers, and one 
sprig parsley, all chopped fine. 

Take another pot, put in two gallons water, in which cnt 
up one-half gallon nice pieces of beef, half an onion, one red 
pepper, parsley, all chopped fine, and salt. When all has 
boiled to pieces, put all together and let it boil half an houi'. 
Press as souse cheese. — Mrs. T. 

Brine for Beef. 
9 quarts salt. 
18 gallons water. 
2 pounds brown sugar. 
\ pound saltpetre. 
Boil and skim well. Let the beef get thoroughly cold, and let 
as much as possible of the blood be drained out before putting 
it in the brine. It may sometimes be necessary, in the course 
of a few months, that the brine be boiled and skimmed a second 
time. 

This quantity will suffice for about half of an ordinary sized 
beef.— J/r*. A. G. 

To Corn Beef. 
For every hundred pounds of beef, take : 
6 pounds salt. 
2 pounds brown sugar. 

2 ounces saltpetre. 

3 or 4 ounces soda. 
1 ounce red pepper. 

The whole to be dissolved in four gallons of water. The heel 
must be closely packed in a barrel, and the mixture poured over 
so as to cover it. Let it stand a week or ten days, or lonsjer if 
the weather is cold ; then pour off the brine, boil it, and skim 
off the blood. Let it cool, and pour back on the beef. War- 
ranted to keep. — Mrs. Dr. S. 



TO OOEN BEEF TONGIjES AND BEEF. 155 

To Corn Beef Tongues and Beef. 
One tablespoonful saltpetre to each tongue or piece of beef; 
rub this in first, then a plenty of salt. Pack down in salt ; 
after it has remained ten or twelve days, put this, with a few 
pods of red pepper cut up fine, in a brine of only salt and water, 
which has been boiled, strained, and cooled, and strong enough 
to bear an egg. Wash a rock clean and place on the beef or 
tongues, to keep them under the brine. This will keep an 
indefinite length of time. Fit for use in two weeks. — Mrs. 
S. T. 

To CoiiN Beef oe Pokk. 

50 pounds meat. 

4^ pounds salt. 

1|- pounds brown sugar. 

\ pound saltpetre. 

1 quart molasses. 
Mix well, boil and skim. When milk-warm, pour it over the 
meat with a ladle. The beef must be soaked in clear water and 
wiped dry, before putting in the brine. It will be ready for use 
in a few weeks. Should the brine mould, skim and boil again. 
Keep the meat under the brine.- — -Mrs. P. TV. 

To Pickle Tongue. 
Rub it well with salt and leave it alone four or five hours ; 
pour oflf the foul brine ; take two ounces saltpetre beaten fine, 
and rub it all over the tongue ; then mix one-quarter of a pound 
brown sugar and one ounce sal-prunella (the bay salt and sal 
prunella beat very fine), and rub it well over the tongue. Let 
it lie in the pickle three or four days ; make a brine of one gal- 
lon water with common salt strong enough to bear an egg, a 
half-pound brown sugar, two ounces saltpetre, and one-quarter 
of a pound bay salt. Boil one quarter of an hour, skimming 
well ; when cold put in the tongue ; let it lie in the pickle four- 
teen days, turning it every day. When ready to use take it 



156 TO CORN BEEF HUNTEE's BEEF, OE SPIOED EOUND. 

out of the pickle, or hang it in wood smoke to dry. — Mrs 
A. M. D. 

To CoEN Beef. 
One tablespoonful saltpetre to each piece of beef, well rubbed 
in. Then rub in as much salt as it will take. Let it stand ten 
or twelve days, and then put it in strong brine. Will be ready 
for use in a week. — Mrs. Col. A. F 

Corned Beef. 
Having a quarter of beef cut into proper size and shape 
for nice roasting pieces, put it in a barrel of weak brine and let 
it remain four days. Then make a brine that will bear an egg, 
to which add : 

\ pound saltpetre. 
3 pounds brown sugar. 
Transfer the beef to this barrel, cover closely, and let it 
remain a week. Put a weight on the meat to insure its being 
kept under the brine. Beef thus prepared in January will keep 
well through the month of March, improving with the lapse of 
time. It is best served cold. A valuable receipt for country 
housekeepers. — Mrs. Wm. A. S. 

Hunter's Beef, or Spiced Round. 
To a round of beef weighing twenty-four pounds, take . 
3 ounces saltpetre. 
3 ounces coarsest sugar, 
1 ounce cloves. 
1 nutmeg. 
■^ ounce allspice. 
3 handfuls salt. 
Beat all into the finest powder ; allow the beef to hang three 
or four days ; remove the bone, then rub the spices well into it, 
continuing tr do so every two or three days, for two or three 
w'leks. 

When to be dressed, dip it in cold water, to take off the 



HUNTEE's bound, or spiced beef SPICED BEEF 157 

loose spices, bind it up tightly and put into a pan with a tea- 
cupful water at the bottom. Sprinkle the top of the meat with 
Buet, cover it over with a thick batter, and brown paper over it. 
Bake five hours. — Mrs. T. O. 

Hunter's Round, ok Spiced Beef. 

To a round of beef that weighs twenty-five ] ounds, take tlm 
following : 

3 ounces saltpetre. 

1 ounce cloves. 

1 ounce nutmeg. 

1 ounce allspice. 

1 pint salt. 
Let the round of beef hang in a cool, dry place twenty-foui 
hours. Take out the bone, and fill the space with suet and 
spices mixed. Rub the above ingredients all over the round y 
put in a wooden box or tub, turn it over occasionally and rub a 
small quantity of salt on it. Let it remain three weeks. Then 
make a stiff paste of flour and water, cover the rownd with it 
and set in the oven. Bake three hours slowly. Remove tlie 
paste when cold, and trim neatly the -rough outside, and slice 
horizontally. Served only when cold. — Mrs. W. A. S. 

To Spice a Round of Beef. 
Take three tablesj)oonfuls saltpetre, four tablespoonfuls brown 
sugar, with which rub your beef well. Two teacups of salt, 
one teacup of cloves, one teacup of allspice (the spice must be 
ground fine). Rub the beef with these ingredients. Put it 
into a tub as near the size of the beef as possible ; turn it every 
day in the pickle it makes. Li about four weeks it will be 
ready for use. For thirty povmds use two pounds beef suet. 
"When cooked place sticks across the bottom of the pot to pro 
vent its burning. — Mrs. H. L. P. 

Spiced Beef. 
Take eight or ten pounds of the thin flank, remove any gris 



158 TO COOK CORNED BEEF-TONGUE, ETC. 

Lie, skin or bones ; rub it over with half ounce saltpeti-e, halt 
ounce bay salt, then rub it well in with a mixture of spices, the 
the following proportions being used : 

1 ounce black pepper. 

1 ounce allspice. 

^ ounce ground ginger. 

|- ounce cloves. 

^ ounce mace. 
Use only as much as will suffice to rub the beef all over ; then 
add three ounces common salt, and quarter of a pound coarse 
sugar. 

Let the beef remain a fortnight in this pickle, turning it and 
rubbing it every day : then take it out, cover it with the spices 
and chopped sweet herbs, roll it very tight, tie it with tape, put 
it into a pan with half-pint water, and half-pound suet. 

Bake it after the bread has been drawn, for six hours ; put a 
heavy weight upon it, and when cold take off the tape. 

To Cook a Corned Round of Beef. 
Wash it clean of the brine, sew it in a coarse towel and boil 
six to eight hours. Do not remove the towel until next day; 
it is nicer to put it in a round mould and gives it a good shape. 
When perfectly cold, trim nicely and cut it across the grain. — 
Mrs. P. W. 

To Cook Cokned Beef-Tongue, etc. 
If the beef has been in brine long or has been dried, it must 
be soaked in cold water twelve hours before boiling. If freshly 
cured it is unnecessary. The beef should be put on in a large 
pot of water early in the morning and simmer for hours. Set 
the pot at the back of the range or stove, where it will gently 
boil during the preparation of dinner. When it first com 
mences to boil, take off the scum. After it is thoroughly done, 
take oft' the boiler or pot. Set away with the beef under tho 
liquor to remain until next day, when it will bo found juicy and 



TO COOK COBNED BEEF — TO CUEE FOE DEYINO. 159 

tonclei'. With a sharp knife carefully trim, and garnish witli 
scraped horseradish and curled parsley. — Mrs. jS. T. 

How TO Cook Corned Beef. 
The flank is a nice piece to corn ; though an ugly piece of 
meat, it can be made a nice and delicious dish. Wash the 
flank clean, roll it up as tight as you can, and tie it with strong 
cord in three places ; then sew it up in a coarse towel and put 
it on and boil from five to six hours, according to size ; take it 
out of the pot, but do not undo it, )iut it on a dish or pan and 
put a weight on it ; let it stand until next day, then remove 
the cloth and strings; trim it, and you have a nice disli. — Mrs. 
P. W. 

Smoked Beef. 
To a piece of beef weighing about twelve or fourteen pounds, 
yoii rub in the following : 
1 pint salt. 
1 cup brown sugar. 
1 cup molasses. 

^ teaspoonful pounded saltpetre. 
Hub this well on the beef and turn it several times. At the 
end of ten days drain it, rub bran on it, hang it up and smoke 
for several days. — Mrs. IT. T. 

To CuiiE Beef fok Duying. 
This recipe keeps the meat moist, so that it has none of that 
toughness dried beef mostly has when a little old. To every 
twenty-eight or thirty pounds, allow one tablespoonful saltpetre, 
one quart fine salt, mixed with molasses until the color is about 
that of light brown sugar; rub tlie pieces of meat with tlie mix- 
ture, and when done, let all stick to it tliat will. Pack in a keg 
or half-barrel, that the pickle may cover the nieiit, and let it 
remain forty-eight hours ; at the end of that time, unougli pickle 
will be formed to cover it. Take it out and hang in a suitable 



160 TO CUBE BEEF HAM — STEWED LOIN OF VEAL. 

place for drying. Allow all the mixture to adhore to the meat 
tliat win.— Mrs. A. M. D. 

To Cube Beef Ham. 
Divide thf? ham into three parts ; rub on half-pint molasses ; 
let it remain in this molasses a day and two nights, turning it 
over occasionally during the time. Rub on then one handful 
salt and put it back in the vessel with the molasses ; turn it 
over, morning and night for ten days. Hang it up to dry for 
one week, then smoke a little. It is an excellent plan, after suf- 
ficiently smoked, to put each piece of beef in a bag, to protect 
from insects, and keep hanging till used. — Miss K. TV. 

To Dry Beef and Tongue. 
The best pieces are the brisket, the round and rib pieces that 
are used for roasting. Put about the middle of February in 
brine. Rub first with salt, and let them lie for a fortnight, then 
throw them in brine and let them lay there three weeks, take 
them out and wipe dry : rub them over with bran and hang in 
a cool place and dark, not letting them touch anything. Should 
there come a wet season, put them in the sun to dry a little. — 
Mrs. E. 

Stewed Loin of Veal. 

Take part of a loin of veal, the chump end will do. Put it 
into a large, thick, well-tinned iron saucepan, or into a stew-pan, 
add about two ounces of butter, and shake it over a moderate fire 
until it begins to brown ; flour the veal well over, lay it in a 
saucepan, and when it is of a fine, equal light brown, pour grad- 
ually in veal broth, gravy or boiling water, to nearly half its 
depth ; add a little salt, one or two sliced carrots, a small onion, 
or more when the flavor is liked, and one bunch parsley. 

Stew the veal very softly for an hour or rather more, then 
turn it and let it stew for nearly or quite another hour or 
longer, should it not appear perfectly done. A longer time 



VEAL CHOPS ROAST VEAL VEAL STEAK. 161 

must be allowed when the meat is more than middling size. 
Dish the joint ; skim all the fat from the gravy and strain it 
over the meat, or keep the joint hot while it is rapidly reduced 
to a richer consistency. — Mrs. J'. 

Veal Chops. 
First beat until tender, then lay the chops in a pan, pour in 
just enough boiling water to barely cover them. Cover closely 
and simmer till tender, sprinkling over after they are nearly 
done, with a little pepper and salt. Lift from the pan, dry with 
a clean towel, butter them, then cover with beaten egg, and sift 
on cracker crumbs. Lay on a baking dish or pan and set in the 
stove to brown. Garnish and serve. — Mrs. S. T. 

Koast "Veal. 
Plunge into boiling water, dry with a clean cloth ; rub well 
with pepper and salt, then with butter. Dredge with flour, 
and put into a pan with two teacups of boiling water, a slice of 
bacon or pork, minced onion and parsley, pepper and salt. Set 
in a hot oven ; simmer, baste and brown. Veal is longer cook- 
ing than lamb. "When a light brown, with a pin, stick on 
a buttered paper to prevent dryness. Tteickeu the gravy with 
brown flour, if brown gravy is wanted, but always with mashed 
Irish potato if white gravy is desired. — Mrs. S. T. 

Veal Steak. 
First beat until it is tender, then without washing lay on a 
gridiron over coals ; turn over it a tin plate to prevent hardness 
and dryness. Turn the steak, and when well done, with a knife 
and fork press it and turn it in a pan or plate of hot melted 
butter. After putting in plate of hot butter and letting it 
absorb as much of the butter as possible, lay it on a dish, pep- 
per and salt it plentifully, and pour over the melted butter. 
(Set in the oven a few mimites, but not long enough for the 
butter to fry, which is ruinous to the flavor of steaks, game, 

14 



162 VEAL CUTLETS. 

etc.) Wheu done, sift over grated cracker. Garnish, wiih para 
ley and serve hot. — Mrs. S. T. 

Veal Cotlet. 

Cut the veal as if for steak or frying, put lard or butter in 
the pan, and let it be hot. Beat up an egg on a plate and have 
flour on another ; dip the pieces first in the egg, then in the 
floui, on both sides, and lay in the pan and fry until done, •.urn- 
ing it carefully once. This makes an excellent dish if well pre- 
pared. Q'his way is superior to batter. — Mrs. D. 

Veal Cudet. 

Cut it in pieces the size of your hand, and lay in salt water 
some little time. Take out and wipe dry. Put a small piece 
of lard in the pan and sprinkle the cutlet with a very little 
flour, pepper, and salt. Fry until nearly done. When it 
begins to brown, jjour oflT the lard, and pour in a little water, 
one large spoonful butter, and a little celery-seed. Turn it over 
frequently. — Mrs. W. 

Veal Cutlets. 

Trim smoothly and beat till tender, sprinkle over pepper 
and salt; then with a spoon spread over an egg beaten till 
thick, and cover thickly with pounded cracker. 

Have some hot lard ready in the frying-pan, put the cutlets on 
to fry, with the prepared side down ; when of a light yellow 
brown, dress the other side the same way and fry, keeping 
closely covered. When they are perfectly done (veal should 
never be rare), place in a hot dish ; pour one teacup o 
milk, one small piece of butter, pepper, salt, imd minced onion 
and parsley into the pan, stirring constantly. When it boils 
iij), pour into the dish and garnish with parsley. Always sift 
browned cracker over such dishes. — Mrs. S. T. 



cold veal dkessed with white sa.uoe. 163 

Cold Veal Deessed with White Sauce. 

Boil one pint milk and thicken it a little with one teaspoon 
ful flour, wet with cold water. When well boiled, put ir 
very thin slices of veal, and simmer slowly for fifteen minutes. 

Have the yolk of an egg well beaten up, and add to the meat, 
also a piece of butter. 

Let it boil up once, stirring all the time, and serve it on 
toasted slices of bread. A few slices of bacon, cut thin ana 
fried to a crisp, make a good relish with this dish. — Mrs. G. P. 

Minced Veal. 

Cut some slices of cold veal into small bits or dice ; take the 
cold gravy and add to it a half-pint of boiling water, one tea- 
spoonful tomato or walnut catsup, the grated peel of one lemon, 
pepper and salt. 

Simmer it with the meat slowly for half an hour ; then add 
half a teaspoonful flour made into a thin batter and pour it 
into the gravy, stirring it rapidly. Boil for ten minutes ; turn 
in one-half cupful cream, or same quantity of milk with a small 
piece of butter ; let it boil up. Serve on a hot ]ilattcr garnishc d 
with sippets of fried bread. — Mrs. P. 

Veal Loaf. 

2 pounds chopped veal. 
^ pound chopped pork. 

3 tablespoonfuls powdered cracker. 

1 tablespoonful sage. 

2 tablespoonfuls butter. 

1 teaspoonful black pepper. 
1 teaspoonful mace. 
Salt to taste. 

1 egg well beaten and mixed in the ingredients. 
Make up into a loaf or pone, and bake slowly three and a 
half hours. This is an excellent dish to use with lettuce, etc. 



164 VEAL LOAF VEAL CAKE. 

iu the spring or early autumn, when game is out of season. 
It is best to be made the day before using. — Mrs. H. H. 

Veal Loaf. 

Two and a half pounds meat taken from fillet or shoulder, or 
wherever the meat is free from fat. Take out all the little 
white, fibrous or sinewy particles, and chop very finely, almost to 
a paste. Mix in rolled cracker crumbs with one egg to hold it 
together, a little butter, red and black pepper, and salt to taste. 

Form into a small loaf; di'edge with the cracker crumbs, and 
put several little pieces of butter over the outside. Set this loaf 
uncooked, with about one quart water or some broth, in a pan ; 
put it in the oven and baste constantly for two hours, and when 
taken out to cool, pour any remaining liquid over the loaf. It 
ought to cut in slices and be quite compact — no caverns in the 
inside of the loaf. — Mrs. Q. P. 

Veal Cake. 

Take one and a half pounds veal, and half a pound of bacon, 
stew together with very little water, a little salt and pepper, 
thyme and parsley. 

When the veal is tender, out into small square pieces, as also 
the bacon. 

Boil four eggs hard and slice them up, and chop some raw 
parsley fine. 

Take a mould or small bowl, lay the slices of egg in a kind 
of pattern prettily at the bottom of it. Sprinkle the parsley 
between the slices. Add veal, bacon, and more egg alternately, 
pepper and salt to taste, and a little grated lemon-peel, also some 
more parsley, and so on until the bowl is nearly full. Fill up 
with the gravy the veal was boUed in, which ought to be very 
rich. Let it stand until quite cold, then turn out on a flat dish. 
The slices cut firmer and more solid when the cake is made the 
day beforehand, which it is best to do if the weathei- permits 
—Mrt. R. P. 



SWEETBRKADS — OALF's LIVEE BROILICD. 1'35 

Sweetbreads. 

Three good throat sweetbreads will make a dish. Blanch 
them well and lay in cold water, then take out and dry well. 
Add egg, bread crumbs, and herbs. 

Put on a dish and brown in an oven. Eat with mushroom 
or tomato sauce. — Mrs. JR. 

Sweetbreads. 
Soak, and put in boiling water for ten minutes. 
Stew in cold water to blanch them. 

They may be cut in slices or in dice and put in fricassee or 
meats, or ragouts, or used as a separate dish. — Mrs. TF. 

S-ioeetbreads. 

Lay them in salt and water, after washing ; parboil until 
done ; drain, dry, and split in half. Eub with butter, pepper 
and salt. Dip in one egg beaten stifif. Sift over pounded 
cracker. 

Butter a baking-dish, lay them in, and set in a hot oven to 
brown, or fry until a light brown. — Mrs. S. T. 

Calves' Feet dressed as Terrapins. 

Boil eight feet until the meat leaves the bones, then remove 
thenl. Put them in a pan with one-half pint of the rich gravy 
in which they are boiled, and add two large spoonfuls butter. 

E.ub the yolks of three hard-boiled eggs with a small tea- 
spoonful mustard, a very little cayenne, and salt to the taste. 

When well mixed with the egg, stir all together into the feet 
or gravy. Let it simmer ten minutes, and just before dishing 
add two wineglasses of good cooking wine and simmer again 
before serving. — Mrs. M. E. L. W. 

Calf's Liver Broiled. 
Cut the liver in thin slices, wash it and let it stand in salt 
and water half an hour to draw out the blood. Parboil in 



166 TO FIJY CAI.f's LIVEE SIMPLE WAY OF COOKING LIVER. 

fresh salt and water, and broil, basting frequently in butter. 
Lay on a hot dish with a lump of butter. — Mrs. A. M. D. 

To Ery Calf's Liver. 
Cut in thin slices. Season with pepper and salt, sweet herbs, 
and parsley. 

Dredge with flour and fry brown with lard. Have it 
thoroughly done, but it must not be hard ; keep covered while 
frying. — Mrs. li. 

Calf's Liver Fried. 
A calf's liver, as white as can be procured, flour, one bunch 
savory herbs, including parsley, juice of a lemon; pepper and 
salt to taste, a little water. 

Cut the liver into slices of a good and equal shape. Dip 
them in flour and fry brown. Place on a hot dish and keep 
before the fire while you prepare the gravy. Mince the herbs 
fine and put into the frying-pan with a little more butter ; add 
the other ingredients with one teaspoonful flour. Simmer 
gently until the herbs are done, and pour over the liver. — Mrs. 
A. M. D. 

Bewitched Liver. 
3 pounds calf s liver, chopped fine. 
\ pound salt pork. 

1 cup grated bread crumbs. 

2 eggs well beaten. 
2 teaspoonfuls salt. 

2 teaspoonfuls black pepper. 

\ teaspoonful red pepper. 
Mix all well together, and put into a tin mould ; set it m a 
pot of cold water and let it boil two hours. Then set the mould 
in a cool oven to dry off a little ; when thoroughlv cold turn it 
out.— Jifrs. J. S. 

Simple Way of Cooking Liver. 
Wash calf's liver and heart thoroughly ; chop thoin fine as 



CAJ.f's BKAINS VKAL DAUBE. 167 

j)ossible, after they have been boiled till very tender ; then add 
pepper ana salt, and one tablespoonfiil flour, straining into it a 
little of the wA.tei\—Mrs. J. P. H. 

Calf's Brains. 

Beat up the brains with a little lemon-peel cut fine, a little 
nutmeg grated, a little mace beaten, thyme and parsley 

Shred fine the yolk of an egg, and dredge with flour. Fry 
in little flat cakes and lay on top of the baked head. 

If for soup, mix in one-half the brains with the soup while 
the soup is boiling, and make the other in cakes and lay together 
with forcemeat balls in the soup. — Mrs. R. 

Calf's Head. 
Split the head, take out the brains, boil till it will fall to 
pieces. Cut it up fine and season with pepper, salt and nutmeg 
to the taste ; add one-quarter pound of butter, wiiieglassful 
wine, and the brains, which are not to be boiled with the 
head. Put in a dish and bake with or without pasta — Mrs. 
J. D. 

Baked Calf's Head. 

Boil until tender, then cut into pieces and put into a deep 
dish with pepper, salt, a few cloves, mace, a little thyme. 

A spoonful butter with flour, well mixed through the meat, 
a layer of bread crumbs on top. Then add a wineglass of wine 
and fill up the dish with the water the head was boiled in, and 
bake three-quarters of an hour. Garnish with forcemeat balls 
and rings of hard-boiled eggs, just before sending to the table. 
— Miss N. 

Veal daube. 
After the head of a calf is skinned and the feet prepared by 
taking off the hoofs, scraping, etc., throw them into cold watfsr 
for twenty -four hours. Put them in a boiler of cold water, and 



36S MOTl'ON AND LAMB. 

simmer until the flesh leaves the bones and there is but little 
water left. 

Throw in salt, pepper, minced onion, parsley, and thyme ; 
cake the meat and bones out. Beat up two eggs until light, 
add two tablespoonfuls cold water, then the liquor from the 
boiler. Stir all together, boil up and strain on the meat from 
the head, which must first be cut up or picked fine and chopped 
with six hard-boiled eggs, and seasoned to the taste with the 
juice of one lemon and wineglass of jelly. This is set aside in 
a mould or bowl and eaten cold with garnish of scraped horse- 
radish and parsley. The calves' feet make another good dish by 
drying first, then dipping in batter made of an egg, one spoon- 
ful of flour, one small teacupful milk, with a little salt, and 
frying.— Jirs. S. T. 



MUTTON AND LAMB. 

When the weather will admit of it, mutton is better for 
being kept a few days before cooking. The saddle, which is 
considered the finest piece, consists of the back or loin and 
upper part of the hind legs. In getting this nice roast, however, 
you spoil the hind quarter, as the saddle takes some of the 
nicest parts of this and leaves it too dry to cook by itself. The 
hind quarter and loin together make a very nice dish — the 
latter being fat and juicy. 

The fore quarter is sometimes cut by taking oflT the shoulder 
and taking the rib-piece, making a piece called the brisket or 
breas'', and many persons esteem this the choicest part of the 
mutton. The ribs out next to the back are used for mutton 
chops. 

When you have a large supply of mutton on hand, it is well 
to put the hind quarters in brine, as you can thus corn them as 



TO BOAST MUTTON EOAST LEG OF MUTTON. 169 

nicely as beef. As mutton spoils easily, this plan is very ad- 
visable. 

Whilst boiled mutton is very nice, lamb is spoiled by this 
mode of cooking. If lamb is to be roasted, it should be cover- 
ed with the caul, as the fat, dripping from this, will preserve 
fhe moisture of the meat. 

In carving the fore quarter of lamb, first take off the shoul- 
der and then cut the ribs in strips. 

Lamb is seldom cut except in quarters, and when nicely cook- 
ed there is nothing better. It should be four months old before 
being eaten. The season for lamb is from May to August, 
whilst that for mutton is from August to Christmas. 

To EoAST Mutton. 
The hind quarter is the nicest part of the mutton to roast, and 
requires longer to cook than lamb. Put it in a pot of boiling 
water and let it simmer one hour. Lift it into a baking-pan, 
rub with salt and pepper (too much salt makes the meat tough). 
Hub over it a little lard and then dredge with flour : skim ofi" 
the top of the water and pour over it. Set it in a hot oven, 
basting frequently to prevent it from being hard and dry ; roast 
till thoroughly done. This is nice to set aside for a cold dish, 
garnished with horseradish and eaten with currant jelly. — Mrs. 

P. W. 

Roast Leg of Mutton. 

Choose young and tender mutton. Take oflF the shank — wash 
it well; let it lie fifteen or twenty minutes in salt water to 
take the blood out. Rub with little salt and pepper well. 
Lay on a grate, which will go nicely in a baking-pan, over one 
pint boiling water ; break the bones of the shank in the water, 
adding more pepper and salt. Set it in a very hot oven, and 
baste frequently to prevent it from being hard and dry. When 
it is of a light brown, cover with sheets of buttered paper. 
Place it on a dish ; add minced parsley to the gravy, which 
should be brown. Cover the roast with grated brown cracker 

15 



J 70 EOASr SADDLE OF MUTrON BEOILKD MUTTON. 

aud garnish at intervals with choppBcl parsley ; pour the gravy 
in the dish, not over it. Mutton should always be perfectly 
done.— ilfrs. S. T. 

Roast Saddle op Mutton. 
Trim the joint carefully, roast it at a brisk, clear fire ; baste 
frequently, and when done dredge it plentifully with salt, and 
serve with the gravy well freed from fat. 

To Boil a Leg of Mutton. 
Make a paste of flour quite plain, mixed stiff with water, roll 
out as for a meat pudding ; break and turn in the shank bone ; 
then cover the leg of mutton carefully with the paste; tie up 
tight in a well-floured cloth. Have ready sufficient boiling 
water, place in the joint, allow ten minutes for checking the 
boiling, and twenty minutes for each pound of meat. Carefully 
remove the paste, which can be done by one cut longitudinally 
and one cut across. Strain the gravy and serve as usual. 

Boiled Leg of Mutton. 
Dip a cloth in hot water, tie up the mutton and put in boil- 
ing water. Boil slowly for two hours, or longer, if not kept 
constantly boiling. — Mrs. R. 

Broiled Mutton. 
After a leg of mutton has been washed and wiped dry, place 
in a cloth that has been dipped in boiling water. Roll it up, pin 
and tie securely ; put in a pot of boiling water. Let it simmer 
siiveral hours, removing the scum that rises when it first begins 
CO boil. If a small leg of mutton, it will require a shorter time 
to cook than a large one. Just before it is done, add enough salt 
to seiison it properly, half an onion, and one heaping teaspoonful 
of black jjeppor. When this has properly seasoned the meat, take 
from the fire, unwrap and drain. Serve with drawn butter, 
adding capers or nasturtium seed, or if you have neither, use 



TO COOK A SADDLE OF MUTTON TO COKN MUTTON. 171 

chopped sour pickle instead. Mutton should always be served 
with caper sauce, if possible. — 3frs. S. T. 

To Cook a Saddle of Mutton. 

Meats are all better for being kept a day or two before cook- 
ing, particularly mutton. If the mutton be tender, do not boil it, 
but put it in a pan of water, set it on the stove, and cook 
slowly, basting constantly with the gravy or water in the pan ; 
with pepper and salt to taste. Just before it is done, put some 
scraped horseradish over it, and garnish the dish with the 
same ; add a little ground mustard and grated bread or cracker ; 
pour the gravy over it, and grate bread over, and set aside to 
cool. Tliis is for cold mutton. All meats are better for roast- 
ing before a fire than in a stove. — Mrs. P. TV. 

Saddle of Mutton. 

This should be covered witli paper, and carefully roasted or 
baked. Season with a little pepper and salt; garnish with 
horseradish. 

Iced Saddle of Mutton. 

Reserve the drippings from the meat when it is roasting. 
After the saddle is nicely cooked, let it get cold. Then take 
the white part of the gravy and melt it to the consistency of 
cream. Pour this over the saddle until it is covered with a 
white coat ; if it appears rough, warm an iron spoon and pass 
over it until it is smooth. Place it on a dish, and dress the 
dish all round with vegetable flowers and curled parsley, using 
the parsley to ornament the saddle also. — Mrs. Judge S. 

To Corn Mutton. 
Mutton being less apt to keep than other meat, it is well, 
when you have an over-supply, to corn it exactly as you would 
corn beef. — Miss R. S. 



172 shouldee of mutton coened — mutton ohop. 

Shoulder of Mutton Corned. 
Take a small shoulder of imitfcon, rub it with 
2 ounces salt. 
2 ounces sugar. 
^ ounce saltpetre. 
After twenty-four hours, rub it again with the pickle; next 
day boil this in paste like the leg of mutton. Serve smothered 
in onion sauce. 

Mutton Chop. 

Get from your butcher nicely shaped mutton chops, not too 
long. Put them into a pan with pepper and salt, and barely 
enough water to cover them. 

Cover close and simmer till done ; drain, wipe dry ; pepper, 
salt and butter them ; with a spoon, cover with an egg beaten 
stiff. Sift over pounded crackers. Put in a pan and set in an 
oven to brown. — Mrs. S. T. 

Mutton Chops dressed with Tomatoes. 

Place in a pan tomatoes peeled and chopped; season with 
butter, pepper, sugar, and salt. 

Take from your gridiron some nicely broiled mutton chops ; 
put into a pan, cover close, and simmer for fifteen minutes. 
Lay the chops on a hot dish, put on a little butter, pepper and 
salt. 

With a spoon, cover each chop with tomatoes. Sift over 
pounded cracker and serve. — Mrs. S. T. 

Mutton Chop. 
Cut the steaks ; pepper and salt them. Broil them lightly 
on both sides ; take them off the gridiron, lay them on a spider. 
Slice up one large onion and stew until it becomes tender ; put 
a layer between each chop and stew until they become tender. 
Take out the steaks, cover them closely or tilt the gravy to the 
side of the vessel, till it is brown ; stir in a lump of buttez. — 
Mrs. A. P. 



MtTTTON CHOP — MUTTON STEW. 173 

Mutton Chop. 
MusLi'Ooiu catsup is a nice flavoring. Put pepper and salt 
on the chops and lay them in melted butter ; when they have 
imbibed sufficient, take out and cover with grated bread crumbs 
and broil. — Mrs. JR. 

Broiled Mutton Chops. 
Beat the mutton chops till tender ; then trim, making them 
of uniform size and shape ; pour on them boiling water. Ln^t 
them remain in it a miniite, dry them and rub with pepper, 
salt, and fresh butter. Lay on a gridiron over hot coals, always 
remembering to cover them while broiling. Turn them, and as 
soon as nicely browned place in a hot dish, pepper again, pour 
over them melted butter, and serve. — Mrs. S. T. 

Mutton Stew. 
Cut slices of rare mutton and put on to stew in a little water ; 
when nearly done put in — 

1 teacup of sweet pickle vinegar. 

3 large spoonfuls jelly. 

A little salt. 

1 teaspoonful mustard. 

\ teacup of walnut catsup. 

Butter size of an egg. 
Stew slowly a short time. — Mrs. F. D. 

Mutton Stew. 
Slice cold mutton or lamb, lay it in a baking dish ; put in — 
1 teaspoonful black pepper. 
1 tea.spoonful red pepper. 
1 teaspoonful celery-seed, pounded. 

Rather more than 1 teaspoonful each of pounded cloves, cin 
namon and mace. 

1 teacup of yellow pickle vinegar. 
1 glassful wine. 



174 GRILLED SLICES OF MUTTON — TO BOAST LAMB. 

Slice up a little yellow pickled cucumber, sugar to taste, one- 
quarter pound butter, one roll of light bread broken in small 
pieces or cut in little slices, and toasted before used. 

In preparing this dish put a layer of the meat and sea.soninga 
alternately. 

The peppers, celery -seed, cloves, cinnamon, and mace must all 
be pounded fine. — Mrs. G. 

Grilled Slices op Mutton. 
Cut some rather thick slices of underdone cold mutton, score 
them well and rub in plentifully some common mustard, salt, 
and cayenne pepper ; then broil them over a clear fire, and 
serve with onion sauce. 

Sheep's Tongues. 

Boil them till the skin can be taken off; split them, and put 
them into a stew-pan, with some gravy, parsley, mushrooms, and 
one minced shallot, and some butter, some pepper, and salt. 

Stew till tender, and strain the gravy over them ; or they 
may be glazed and served with the gravy under them. Sheep's 
tongues may also be skinned, larded, braised, and glazed ; and 
served with onion sauce. 

To E.OAST Lamb. 
The hind quarter is the nicest piece for roasting. Drop it in 
a pot of boiling water ; boil half an hour, put it in a pan, dredge 
it with lard, pepper, flour, a little salt ; skim the top of the 
water in which it is boiled, and pour over it ; as soon as tho 
gravy accumulates in the pan keep it basted frequently to pre- 
vent it from being hard and dry. Lamb should be ccoked done 
to be good. — Mrs. P. W. 

To Grill a Shoulder of Lamb. 
Half boil it, score and cover it with egg, crumbs, and parsley 
seasoned as for cutlets Broil it over a very clear, slow fire, oi 



lamb's head feicassee — lamb's head. 175 

put it ill a. Dutch oven to brown it ; serve with any sauce tliat 
is liked. A breast of lamb is often grilled in the same way. 

Lamb's Head to Fricassee. 
Parboil the head and haslet (the liver excepted) ; cut (lie 
meat in slices from the head ; slice the heart, tongue, etc., and 
fricassee as for chicken. Have the liver fried in slices with the 
sweetbreads and slices of bacon atid bunches of parsley. Pour 
the fricassee into the dish, and garnish with the fried pieces.— 
Mrs. Ji. 

Lamb's Head. 

Boil the head and liver, but so as not to let the liver be too 
much done. Take up the head, split it through the bone, which 
must remain with the meat on. Cut the meat across and 
across with a knife, grate some nutmeg on it and lay it on a 
dish before a good fire ; then throw over it some grated bread 
crumbs, some sweet herbs, some allspice, a little lemon peel 
chopped fine, a very little pepper and salt. Baste it with 
bucter, and dredge a little flour over it. 

Just as it is done, take one-half the liver, the lights, the 
meat, the tongue ; chop them small with six or eight spoonfuls 
water or gravy. First shake some flour over the meat and stew 
it together; then put in the gravy or water, a good piece of 
butter rolled in a little flour, pepper and salt, and what runs 
from the head in the dish. Simmer all together a few minutes, 
and add half a spoonful of vinegar ; pour it on the head. Lay 
the head on the centre of the mince-meat; have ready the other 
half of liver, cut in pieces and fried quickly with slices of bacon 
and lemon; lay these around the dish and serve, — Jtfrs. T. 

Decorations and Garnishes for Cold Meats and Salads. 
The day before giving a dinner or evening entertainment, 
gather up medium and small sized pure white and yellow tur- 
nips, carrots, red and pink beets, the different colored radishes. 
From these the most beautiful flowers can be cut : camellias, 



176 POULTRY. 

roses, dahlias, tulips, tuberoses, etc. No explicit directions can 
be given except, first, smoothly to pare each vegetable, laking 
care not to keep them too near the fire, which will cause them 
to wilt and lose the waxy freshness which makes them so 
beautiful. Each flower may be laid on a cluster of green leaves 
or curled parsley, and over the cold meats, and around the edge 
of the dish. 

The cutting of these flowers makes a charming and interest- 
ing pastime for the young members of the family, in the eveu- 
ing before. — Mrs. G. G. 



POULTRY. 



In summer, kill and dress the poultry the day beforehand, 
except chicken for frying, which is not good unless killed the 
same day it is eaten. 

The best way to kill a fowl is to tie it by its legs, hang it up, 
and then cut off its neck. In this way, it dies more quickly, 
suffers less, and bleeds more freely. 

It is be.st to pick fowls dry ; though, if you are pressed for 
time, you may facilitate the picking of chickens, as well as of 
partridges and other small birds, by putting them first into 
water, hot, but not boiling. Then take off the feathers carefully, 
so as not to break the skin. Never scald a turkey, duck or 
goose, ho\iever, before picking. 

To draw the crop, split the skin of all poultry on the back of 
the neck. Pull the neck upward and the skin downward, and 
the crop can be easily pulled out. Then cut off the neck close 
to the body, leaving the skin to skewer at the back of 'the neck 
after the aressing has been put in. Make an incision under 
the rnmp lengthwise, suflScient to allow the entrails to be easily 
removed. Be careful not to break the gall, and to preserve the 



POULTET. 171 

liver whole. Cut open the gizzard, take out the inner skin, 
and wash both carefully. Wash the bird inside several times, 
the last time with salt and water. Some persons object to 
using water inside or outside, but I consider it more cleanly to 
wash the bird first and then wipe it dry with a clean towel. 
It should then be hung with the neck downwards till ready to 
cook. 

The head, neck, and feet, after being nicely washed and the 
bones in them broken, should be stewed in the gravy, as they 
make it much richer. 

It is said that throwing chickens into cold water immediatelj 
iafter they have finished bleeding, and allowing them to remain 
there ten or fifteen minutes, will make them deliciously tender, 
which can be accounted for scientifically. Frozen fowls or game 
should be thawed gradually, by being laid in cold water. If 
cooked without being thawed, it will require double time, and 
they will not be tender nor high-flavored. 

The tests by which you may tell the age of a turkey are 
these. An old turkey has rough and red legs, and if a gobbler, 
long spurs, while' young turkeys have black legs, and if gobblers, 
small spurs. The fatter they are and the broader their breasts, 
the better. When dressed, the skin should be a yellowish 
white, and, if tender, you may easily rip it with a pin. If, 
when you bend back the wings, the sinews give and crack, 
this is another test of the turkey being young, and the same 
test will apply to other fowls. The bill and feet of an old 
goose are red and hairy. A young goose has pen feathers and 
its flesh is whiter than that of an old one. 

If yotmg, the lower part of a hen's legs and feet are soft and 
smooth, while a young cook has small spurs. When dressed, 
the flesh should be white and the fat a pale yellow. Turn the 
wing back, and if the sinews snap it is a sign the chicken is 
young. 

A few words on the subject of carving may not be out of 
place here. A sharp knife, with a thin and well tempered 



178 KOAST TL'EKEY. 

blade is essential to good carving. In carving a turkey, out ofl 
first the wing nearest to you, then the leg and second joint, 
then slice the breast till a rounded, ivory-shaped piece appears. 
Insert the knife between that and the bone, and sepai-ate them. 
This part is the nicest bit of the breast. Next comes the 
merry -thought. After this, turn over the bird a little, and just 
below the breast you will find the oyster, which you will sepa- 
rate as you did the inner breast. Tiie side bone lies beside the 
rump, and the desired morsel can be taken out without separat- 
ing the wliole bone. Proceed with the other side in the same 
way. The fork need not be removed during the whole process. 
Chicken and partridges are carved in the same way. 

Roast Turkey. 
"Wash nicely in and out. Plunge into boiling water ten min- 
utes. Have ready a dressing of 

Bread crumbs. 

Hard boiled eggs, chopped fine. 

1 tablespoonful butter. 

Minced jjarsley, thyme and celery. 
After rubbing the cavity well with salt and pepper and put- 
ting in a slice of pork or bacon, fill with the above dressing. 
Do the same also to the crop, so as to make the turkey look 
plump. Rub the turkey well with butter and sprinkle salt and 
])epper over it. Dredge with fiour. Lay in the pan with a 
slice of pork or bacon and a pint of boiling water. Lay the 
liver and gizzard in the pan with it. Put in a hot oven, bast- 
ing and turning frequently till every part is a beautiful brown. 
When the meat is amber color, pin a buttered sheet of writing 
paper over it to keep it from becoming hard and dry. Cook 
three or four hours. Season the gravy with minced parsley and 
celery and serve with cranberry sau,'/e. — Mrs. S. T. 

Roast Turker. 
Wash the turkey thoroughly inside and out, having removed 



ROAST TUEKEY — itOAST TUEKEY-, WITH TRUFFLES. lY9 

Ihe insides. Make a dressing of bread soaked in cold water, 
drained and mashed fine, a small piece of melted butter or 
salt pork chopped, pepper and salt, sweet herbs, a hard boiled 
egg, chopped tine. 

Any kind of cooked meat is good, minced fine and added to 
the dressing. The body and crop must be filled with the dress- 
ing and sewed up. The giblets ought to be boiled tender, if 
they are to be used. Use the water in which they are boiled, 
for gravy, adding a little of the turkey drippings, seasoning 
with pepper, salt, and sweet herbs, and thickening with a little 
flour and water, mixed smoothly. Place where it will boil. 

When the fowl is put on to roast, put a little water into the 
dripping-pan. At first it should be roasted slowly and basted 
frequently. Tie up the wings and legs before roasting, and rub 
on a little butter and salt. Serve with drawn butter. — Mrs. W. 

Moast Turkey. 

Put the gizzard, heart and liver in cold water and boil till 
tender. When done, chop fine and add stale bread, grated, salt 
and pepper, sweet herbs, if liked, two eggs well beaten. 

Pill the turkey with this dressing, sew the openings, drawing 
the skin tightly together. Put a little butter over the turkey 
and lay it upon the grate of your meat-pan. Cover the bottom 
of the pan well with boiling water. In half an hour, baste the 
turkey by pouring over it the gravy that has began to form in 
the pan. Repeat this basting every fifteen minutes. In an 
oven of average temperature, a twelve-pound turkey will re- 
quire at least three hours' cooking. — 3Irs. A. D. 

Roast Turkey, with Truffles. 
Trufilea must be peeled, chopped and pounded in a mortar ; 
one and a half pound will do for one turkey. Rasp the same 
amount of fat bacon and mix with the truffles and stuff the 
turkey with it. This dressing is usually placed in the turkey 
two daj's beforehand, to impart its flavor to the fowl. Lay 



180 BOILED TURKEY — TO STEAM A TUEKEY. 

thin slices of fat bacon over the breast of the turkey, cover it 
•with half a sheet of white paper, and roast two hours. Chest- 
nuts dressed in the same way as truffles are found an excellent 
substitute.— JIfrs. S. G. 

Boiled Tukkey. 
Wash well with cold water, then put on in milk- warm water, 
either tied in a coarse cloth dredged with flour or with a half- 
pound of riQe in the water. Keep well under water, and boil 
slowly three hours, adding salt just before it is done. When 
perfectly done and tender, take out of the pot, sjjrinkle in the 
cavity a little pepper and salt, and fill with oysters stewed just 
enough to plump them, and season, with butter, pepper, salt 
and vinegar. Place in a dish and set in a steamer to keep hot. 
Strain the liquor in which the oysters were scalded, add drawn 
butter, chopped celery, parsley and thyme ; pour over the turkey, 
and serve. If not convenient to use oysters, use egg and butter 
sauce. Garnish with sliced lemons. — Mrs. S. T. 

Soiled Turkey. 
Prepare the turkey as for roasting. Tie it in a cloth or boil 
rice in the pot with it, if you wish it to look white. It is im- 
jjroved by boiling a pound or two of salt pork with it. If so\ip 
is made of the liquor, let it stand till next day and skim the 
fat. Season after heating. — Mrs. W. 

To Steam a Tukkey. 
Rub butter, pepper and salt inside the turkey after it has 
been well washed, fill with oysters, sew up, lay in a dish and set 
in a steamer placed over boiling water. Cover closely and 
steam from two hours to two and a half. Take xip, strain the 
gravy which will be found in the dish. Have an oyster sauce 
ready, prepared like stewed oysters, and pour into it this gravy 
thickened with a little butter and flour. Let it come to a boi. 
and whiten with a little boiled cream. Pour this over the 



T0EKEY HASH BONED TURKEY. 181 

steamed turkey and send to the table hot. Garnish with sliced 
lemons. — Mrs. S. T. 

Turkey Hash. 
Cut up the meat very fine. Stew the bones in a little water, 
then stir into this water the meat, adding a large tablespoonful 
butter, a cup of cream, salt and pepper, a little chopped parsley, 
thyme or celery (or else a very few celery-seeds). Stew all 
together. — Mrs. H. 

Devilled Turkey. 
Place the legs and wings (jointed) on a gridiron. BroU 
slowly. Have ready a sauce made of — 

1 tablespoonful pepper vinegar. 
1 tablespoonful made mustard. 
1 tablespoonful celery sauce. 
1 tablespoonful acid fruit jelly. 
A little salt and pepper. 
Lay the broiled turkey on a hot dish. Pour the dressing 
and sift pounded cracker over it. — Mrs. S. T. 

Potato Stuffing for Turkeys and other Fowls. 

Mash smoothly six good-sized boiled Irish potatoes. Chop a 
small onion very fine and fry a light brown, in a frying-pan, 
with a dessertspoonful lard. Then add the potatoes with salt 
and pepper, and a lump of butter as large as a walnut. To this 
add one well beaten egg,, stirring till perfectly dry. If for geese 
or ducks, add a little sifted sage and a small quantity of red 
pepper. — Mrs. Mc G. 

Boned Turkey. 

The turkey must be full grown, modei'ately fat, and picked 
dry. Do not remove the entrails. Cut off the neck about one 
inch from the body. Take off the wings above the second joint 
and cut off the legs as usual. With a sharp pointed knife, 
snlit the skin from the end of the neck to the rump. Eun the 
knife between the bones and flesh on one side, till you come to 



182 BONEU TUKKEY. 

where the wing and leg join the body. Twist the wing and 
raise it, cracking the joint. Separate it from the body. Then 
proceed with the leg in the same way, on the same side. Run 
the knife between the bones and flesh till you reach the breast 
bone. Repeat this on the other side. Take out the craw. 
Carefully run a sharp knife under the rump, detaching it from 
tjie bone withovit cutting the skin, as it must come off with the 
flesh. Hold the turkey by the neck and pull the skin carefully 
down, until the upper part of the breast bone is uncovered. 
Cut the flesh from the bone on both sides, till the end of the 
bone is nearly I'eached. The turkey must now be laid on the 
back and held by the neck, the front of the turkey being toward 
you. Take hold of the skin of the :ieck with the left hand, 
pulling downwards with a knife in the right hand, separate the 
skin from the end of the bone. The whole of the turkey is now 
detached from the carcass. Lay it on a table with the skin 
down. Pull the bones from the wings and legs, first running 
the knife around so as to leave the flesh. Pull out all the ten- 
dons of the legs. Push them and the wings inside. Cut off 
the ring under the rump. All this must be done slowly and 
carefully. Have ready a half-dozen slices of salt pork, and a 
salad made of slioat, veal or lamb, chopped and seasoned, as 
turkey salad, with celery, etc. Mix with this salad three or 
four large Irish potatoes, boiled and mashed, with a spoonful of 
butter. Now lay the turkey on the table, inside up and the 
neck from you ; pe[)per and salt it; lay three or four slices of 
pork on it, then a layer of the salad ; pork again and salad 
alternately until filled ; draw the two sides together and sew 
it up, giving it as near as possible its proper shape. Sew it up 
carefully in a cloth, place in a kettle of the proper shape, 
cover with boiling water, adding the broken bones, three pounds 
fresh lean beef, parsley, ihyme, onions and two dozen whole 
black peppercorns, with salt to the taste. Simmer three hours, 
then take it from the water and remove the towel. Carefully 
remove all discolorations and settlings of the water from the 



MEAT JELLY FOE HONED TURKEY. 18S 

turkey. Scald a clean cloth, wrap it up again ; pla :e it on its 
back, put a tlish over it with a weight on it and set it in a cool 
place till next day. Unwrap and remove the twine with which 
it was sewed. Glaze it with a little meat jelly ; just before 
the jelly congeals sift over a little cracker browned and 
pounded ; decorate with meat jelly and serve. Directions for 
preparing meat jelly follow. — Mrs. S. T. 

Meat Jelly for Boned Turkey. 

As soon us the water in which the turkey was boiled is cold, 
take off all the fat and strain it, put it in a porcelain-lined 
kettle ; two ounces gelatine, three eggs, with shells, a wine- 
glass of sherry, port or madeira wine ; stir well. Add one 
quart of the strained liquor; beat rapidly with an egg-beater, 
put it on the fire and stir until it boils. Simmer ten or fifteen 
minutes. Sprinkle in a pinch of turmeric and strain just as 
any other jelly. When congealed break it up and place around 
the turkey. Cut some in thick slices and in fanciful shapes 
with paste cutters. Place some of these lozenges over the 
turkey and border the edges of the dish with them. — Mrs. 
S. T. 

Chickens. 

These, whether for boiling or roasting, should have a dress- 
ing prepared as for turkeys. Six spoonfuls of rice boiled with 
the chickens will cause them to look white. If the water is cold 
when they are put in, they will be less liable to break. They 
are improved by boiling a little salt pork with them. If not 
thus boiled, they will need salt. 

For broiling, chickens should be split, the inwards taken out, 
and the chickens then washed. Broil very slowly till done, 
placing the bony side down ; then turn it and brown the other 
side. Forty minutes is the medium time for broiling a chicken. 

For roast . hicken, boil the gizzard and liver by themsehcs, 
and use the water for gravy. — Mrs. Col. W. 



184 eoast chicken to steam chicken. 

Roast Chicken. 

Chicken sliould never be cooked the same day it is killed. 
Wash well with cold water, then pour boiling water over it and 
into the cavity. Eub the latter with salt and pepper, and fill 
with a dressing made of bread soaked in water and squeezed 
out, a tablespoonful butter, a little salt, pepper and parsley. 

Rub the chicken well with butter. Sprinkle pepper and salt 
over it and dredge with flour. Lay it into a pan with a slice of 
pork or bacon and a pint of water. Let it simmer slowly two 
hours, basting and dredging frequently. Turn the chicken so 
each part may be equally browned. Add chopped thyme and 
parsley to the gravy. 

Some persons think ground ginger a more delicate flavoiing 
for the dressing than pepper. — Mrs. S. T. 

To Boil Chicken. 

Never boil the same day the chicken is killed. Soak them 
overnight in weak salt and water. Place in a kettle of water, 
with a handful of rice and a little milk to make the chicken 
white. Simmer slowly two or three hours, removing the scum 
that rises when the chicken first begins to boil. Keep under 
the water, with an inverted deep plate. Just before taking off 
the fire, add salt to the taste. Lay on a hot dish near the fire. 
Skim oif the fat from the top of tlie liquor, sti-ain it and add 
chopped celery, parsley and thyme, drawn butter, a little pep- 
per and salt, or, if preferred, six hard-boiled eggs chopped fine. — 
Mrs. S. T. 

To Steam Chicken. 

Soak two hours, in salt and water, a fat young pullet. Drain 
<ind dry. Rub in the cavity a little sal fc and pepper and a large 
lump of butter. Fill with large, plump oysters, seasoned with 
pepper and salt, and sew up. Lay the chicken on a dish or pan, 
and set it inside a steamer, which close and keep over boiling 
water four hours. When thoroughly done, lay on a dish and 



SMOTHEEED CHICKEN STEWED CHICKEN. 185 

pour over it drawn butter or celery sauce. Garnish with curled 
parsley, and serve. — Mrs. S. T. 

Smothered Chicken. 

Kill the day before it is smothered. Split open the back, aa 
if to broil. When ready to cook, wipe dry with a clean towel, 
rub well with butter and sprinkle with pepper and salt. Put 
in a pan with a slice of bacon or pork and a pint of water. 
Simmer an hour or more, basting frequently. When thoroughly 
done, place on a hot dish. 

Stir into the gravy remaining on the fire a beaten egg, mixing 
it carefully. Pour this into the dish, but not on the chicken. 
Sift over it cracker, first browned and then pounded. G-arnish 
with parsley, and serve, — Mrs. S. T. 

Stewed Chicken. 

Cut up the chicken as if to fry, adding the prepared head 
and feet. Soak in weak salt and water. If for dinner, do this 
immediately after breakfast. 

An hour and a half before dinner, put in a saucepan, cover- 
ing weir with water. Let it simmer slowly for one hour. Take 
it out with a fork and lay in a bowl. Add a teacup milk and 
half a teaspoonful black pepper to the liquor. Let it boil up 
and strain on the chicken. Rinse the saucepan and return all 
to the fire. Beat one egg with a tablespoonful of flour and one 
of milk until quite smooth. Mince some parsley, thyme, and a 
very little onion, and stir all into the saucepan. Then put in 
a tablespoonful of butter. Stir around and pour into a dish 
in which small pieces of toast have been neatly arranged. Gar- 
nish with curled parsley. — Mrs. S. T. 

Stewed Chicken. 
Cut up and lay in salt and water. Put them in water 
enough to cover them, with some slices of middling. Let them 
boil tUl nearly done. Then put in the dumplings, made like 

16 



1S6 FKIED CHICKEN TO DEESS CHICKENS WITH TOMATOES. 

biscuit but rolled thin, and let them boil till done. Roll a 
piece of butter in flour, with pepper, salt, chopped parsley and 
celery, or a little celery-seed. When the gravy is thick enough, 
pour in a teacup of cream or milk, and let it boil up once. 
Take off the fire and serve hot. — Mrs. Col. W. 

Frikd Chicken. 
This dish is best when the chicken is killed the same day it 
is fried. Cut off the wings and legs, cut the breast in two, and 
also the back. Wash well and throw in weak salt and water, 
to extract the blood. Let it remain for half au hour or more. 
Take from the water, drain and dry with a clean towel, half an 
hour before dinner. Lay on a dish, sprinkle a little salt over 
it, and sift flour thickly first on one side and then on the other, 
letting it remain long enough for the flour to stick well. Have 
ready on the frying-pan some hot lard, in which lay each piece 
carefully, not forgetting the liver and gizzard. Cover closely 
and fry till a fine amber color. Then turn over each piece and 
cover well again, taking care to have the chicken well done, 
yet not scorched. Take the chicken up and lay in a hot dish 
near the fire. Pour into the gravy a teacup of milk, a teaspoon- 
ful of butter, a saltspoon of salt, and one of pepper. Let it 
boil up and pour into the dish, but not over the chicken. Put 
curled parsley round the edge of the dish and serve. — Mrs. 
iS. T. 

Fried Chicken,. 

Kill the chicken the night before, if you can, and lay on ice, 
or else kill early in the morning. When ready, wipe dry, floui 
it, add pepper and salt, and fry in a little lard. When nearly 
done, pour off the lard, add one-half teacup water, large spoon- 
ful butter, and some chopped parsley. Brown nicely and 
serve. Meal mush fried is nice with the chicken. — MrB. 
Col. W. 

To Dress Chickens with Tomatoes. 

Fry till a light brown. Then add some tomatces, cut in 



TO FEICASSEE CmCKEN — CHICKEN PIE. 187 

small pieces, •with the juice. Strain the tomatoes from the seed, 
season them with salt, pepper, a little sugar, and let them stew. 
—Mrs. J. B. D. 

To Fricassee Chicken. 
Wash and joint the chicken ; place the pieces in a stew-pau 
with the skin side down. Sprinkle salt and pepper on each 
piece. Add three or four slices of pork, stew till tender, take 
them out and thicken the liquor with flour, and add a piece of 
butter the size of a hen's egg. Replace the chicken in the pan 
and let it stew five minutes longer. When it is taken up, soak 
in the gravy some pieces of toast, put them on plates and lay 
the chicken on the toast, pouring the gravy over it. To brown 
the chicken, stew till tender, without the pork ; brown the pork, 
take that up, then put in the chicken and fry a light brown. — 

Mrs. Col. W. 

To Broil Chicken. 

Kill the chicken the day before using, split open in the back, 
nicely clean, and, if the weather is warm, slightly sprinkle 
with salt. If for breakfast, half an hour before press between 
the folds of a clean towel till dry, grease well with fresh butter, 
sprinkle with pepper and salt and lay on a gridiron, over hot 
coals, with the inside of the chicken down. Let it cook prin- 
cipally from this side, but turn often till the outside of the 
chicken is of a bright, yellow brown. When thoroughly done, 
pour over it melted butter, sprinkle pepper, and sift pounded 
or grated cracker. — Mrs. S. T. 

Chicken Pie. 
Cut up the chicken and place in a deep oven with one largo 
spoonful of lard. Let it brown a little and add one onion, pars- 
ley, thyme, sage and black pepper, to suit the taste. Pour on 
it a cupful boiling water, stir well and let it simmer till well 
cooked. Just before taking from the fire, rub together : 
I cup cream. 
1 spoonful butter. 



188 CHICKEN PIE CHICKEN PUDDING WITH POTATOES. 

Yolks of 2 hard-boiled eggs. 
1 grated nutmeg and other spices to the taste. 
Stir well and pour in a pan lined with a paste. — Mrs. A. G, 

Chicken Pie. 
Make into a paste one quart of flour with the weight of four 
eggs in butter and a large spoonful of lard. Put the paste in a 
deep dish, lining the bottom and side with chicken interspersed 
with layers of very thin bacon. Add some large crumbs, 
some pepper, and a quarter-pound butter. Fill the dish with 
cold water, and yolks of four or six hard-boiled eggs, then 
dredge with flour and put on the top crust. Let it bake gradu- 
ally. It will take two hours to bake. — Mrs. Ool. W. 

Chicken Pudding. 
Cut up the chicken and stew it a little, after which lay the 
pieces in a buttered dish with a few bits of butter, a little 
pepper and salt, and a little of the water in which the chicken 
was stewed. 

Make a batter of one quart milk, five eggs, a little salt. 
Pour this batter over the chicken, and bake half an hour. — 
Mrs. A. B. 

Chicken, Pudding. 

10 eggs beaten very light. 

1 quart rich milk. 

\ pound melted butter. 

Pepper and salt to the taste. 
Stir in enough flour to make a thin, good batter. Put four 
young chickens, nicely prepared and jointed, in a saucepan, with 
some salt and water and a bundle of thyme or parsley. Boil 
till nicely done, then take up the chickens and put in the 
batter. Put all in a deep dish and bake. Serve with gravy in 
a boat. — Mrs. Dr. C. 

Chicken Pudding with Potatoes. 
Cut up a young chicken as if to fry, and parboil it. Boil and 



TO E0A8T GOOSE DEVILLED GOOSE. 189 

mash Irish potatoes. Beat up three or four eggs, add to the 
potatoes, and thin \iith milk. Season with butter, pepper and 
salt, stir in the chicken, and bake it. 

Boiled rice is a good substitute for potatoes. — Mrs. E. W. 

N. B. — Most of the recipes given for turkey apply to pea- 
fowl, and most of those given for chicken may be used for 
guinea fowl. — Mrs. S. T. 

To EoAST Goose. 

A goose must never be eaten the same day it is killed. If 
the weather is cold, it should be kept a week before using. 
Before cooking let it lie several hours in weak salt and water, 
to remove the strong taste. Then plunge it in boiling water, 
for five minutes, if old. Fill the goose with a dressing made of : 

Mealy Irish potatoes, boiled and mashed fine. 

A small lump of butter. 

A little salt or fresh pork chopped fine. 

A little minced onion. 

Parsley, thyme, and a pinch of chopped or powdered sage. 

Grease with sweet lard or butter. Lay in a pan with the 
giblets, neck, etc. Pour in two teacups of boiling water, 
set in a hot oven, and baste frequently. Turn so that every 
part may be equally browned. Serve with gravy or onion 
sauce. 

The above recipe will answer equally as well for duck. — 
Mrs. S. T. 

Devilled Goose. 

Plunge the goose into a pot of boiling water and let it remain 
half an hour. Pill with a stuffing made of: 

Mashed Irish potatoes, a heaping tablespoonful butter, minced 
onions,, sage, parsley and thyme, half ateaspoonful black pepper. 

Place it in a pan with a slice of fat pork and a pint of broth 
or liquor in which any kind of meat has been boiled. 

Mix two tablespoonfuls pepper vinegar, celery vinegar, mado 



190 TO PKEPAEK YOUNG DUCKS — SALADS. 

mustard, and one of acid fruit jelly. Butter the breast of the 
goose and pour this mixture over it, adding salt and pepper to 
thi) taste. 

Place in a hot oven, dredge with flour and baste frequently 
till done ; when serve with its own gravy. This receipt will 
answer equally as well for wild goose. — Mrs. 8. T. 

To Prepare Young Ducks. 
Kill and hang to drain. Plunge, one at a time, in boiling 
water, then immediately in cold water, which makes them easier 
to pick. Kill some days before using, or if obliged to use them 
the same day as killed, they are better roasted. — Mrs. R. 

To Stew Ducks. 
Truss the ducks and stuff them with bread, butter, and onion. 
Flour them and brown them in lard. Have prepared slips of 
bacon, giblets, onion, water, pepper, salt, and a little clove or 
mace, if you like. Put in the ducks and let them stew gently 
but constantly for two hours. Then add the juice of grefiii 
grapes or of a lemon, or else a little lemon pickle. Flour the 
ducks each time you turn them, and thicken with butter rolled 
in flour. — Mrs. Col. W. 



SALADS. 



In making salads, be careful to add the vinegar last, Where 
oil cannot be obtained, fresh butter, drawn or melted, is an 
excellent substitute and is indeed preferred to oil by some per- 
sons, e])icureans to the contrary notwithstanding. Always 
use good cider vinegar in making salads, as chemical vinegar is 
sometimes very unwholesome. Much depends on the rotation 
in which you mix the ingredients for a salad, so I would call 



OYSTER SAIiAD SALMON Alrt) LOBSTER SALAD. 191 

particular attention to the directions given on this point on the 
subsequent pages. 

Oyster Salad. 
■^ gallon fresh oysters. 
The yolks of four hard-boiled eggs. 

1 raw egg, well whipped. 

2 large spoonfuls salad oil or melted butter. 
2 teaspoonfuls salt. 

2 teaspoonfuls black pepper. 
2 teaspoonfuls made mustard. 

1 teacup good vinegar. 

2 good sized pickled cucumbers, cut up fine. 

Nearly as much ce 'f" as oysters, cut up into small dice. 

Drain the liquor fro. the oysters and throw them into some 
hot vinegar on the fire ; ±et them remain until they are plwmp, 
not cooked. Then put them at once into clear cold water; 
this gives them a nice plump look and they will not then shrink 
and look small. Drain the water from them and set them away 
in a cool place, and prepare your dressing. Mash the yolks as 
fine as you can and rub into it the salt, pepper, and mustard, 
then rub the oil in, a few drops at a- time. When it is all 
smooth, add the beaten egg, and then the vinegar, a spoonful at 
a time. Set aside. Mix oysters, celery, and pickle, tossing Tip 
vrell with a silver fork. Sprinkle in salt to your taste. Then 
pour dressing over all. — Mrs. E. P. G. 

Salmon and Lobster Salad. 

If the salmon salad is made of the fish preserved in cans, 
drain it from the oil and mince the meat fine. Cut up one 
third as much lettuce or celery. 

For one box of salmon, boil four eggs hard ; lay them in cold 
water a few minutes, shell and separate the whites from the 
yolks ; lay the whites aside. Mash the yolks smooth with two 
tablespoonfuls sweet olive oil or one teacup sweet rich milk or 



192 LOBSTEK SALAD TEEEAPIN SALAD. 

cream. The oil makes the smoothest and best paste. Dissolve 
in one teacup vinegar, 

1 tablespoonful sugar. 

1 teaspoonful salt. 

2 or more teaspoonfuls fine mustard. 
Pepper to the taste. 

Mix this with the paste and toss lightly over the meat with 
silver fork. Ornament the dish in which it is served with 
the green leaves of the celery, or with curled parsley and the 
whites of eggs cut in rings. 

Lobster salad is prepared in the same way. Take the nicest 
parts of the lobster. — Mrs. G. G. 

Lobster Salad. 
Chop up one can of lobsters ; cut in small pieces as much 
celery. Then cream with one teacup butter, one tablespoonful 
mustard, one tablespoonful sugar, one teaspoonful salt, and 
yolks of four hard-boiled eggs, rubbed smooth ; stir in five 
tablespoonfuls pepper vinegar (simply pepper steeped in vine- 
gar and sweetened with a little sugar), and pour the mixture 
over the lobster and celery. — Mrs. S. T. 

Fish Salad. 
Boil four flounders, or any medium sized fish ; when done, 
take off the skin and pick out the bones, then shred very fine. 
Add pepper and salt, one tablespoonful mixed mustard, a half 
cnp vinegar, and half a pound butter, and mix all well with 
the fish. Put into shallow pans, set in the oven and bake ten 
minutes. When cold put over it a little Worcestershire sauce, 
and sherry wine. — Miss F. N. 

Terrapin Salad. 
Boil them until the shells will come off easily and the nails 
pull out ; then cut into small pieces and jarefuUy remove the 
sand-bag and gall. 



TURKEY SALAD. 193 

To three good sized terrapins, take six hard-boiled eggs ; re- 
move the yolks and rub into a powder with half a pound sweet 
butter. When creamy and light, add one teaspoonful flour. 
Put this with the meat into a saucepan ; season with cayenne 
pepper and salt, and let it boil for one or two minutes. Just 
before taking from the fire, add wine to taste, and if desired, a 
little mace. 

Be careful to remove the skin from the legs. — Mrs. A. 
M.B. 

Turkey Salad. 

Mince the turkey very fine. Have ready the following mixt- 
ure, for a large company. 

Twelve or fourteen eggs boiled hard ; mash the yolks smooth 
with one spoonful water ; add to it pepper, salt, and mustard to 
the taste. Two teaspoonfols celery-seed, one teacup of fresh 
melted butter or fine olive oil, and pour in strong vinegar to the 
taste. 

Mix the turkey and celery, and pour over the mixture just 
before eating. — Mrs. F. G. W. 

Turkey Salad. 
Remove the skin and fat from a turkey ; mince the meat 
fine. 

Mince 2 or 3 slices lean ham. 

2 or 3 bunches celery. 

3 or 4 apples. 

3 or 4 cucumber pickles ; mix well together. 
Prepare a dressing of the yolks of four eggs, rubbed in a little 
thick cream. 

4 tablespoonfuls butter. 

2 teaspoonfuls black pepper. 

2 teaspoonfuls salt. 

2 teaspoonfuls of mustard. 

Vinegar to the taste. 

—Mrs. Br. S. 
17 



194 TUEREY SALAD CHICKEN SALAD. 

Twrhey Salad. 

Boil two turkeys till well done, pick out all the bones, skin 
and fat, and cut up th.e balance in small pieces. 

Boil one dozen eggs hard, let them cool, then separate the 
yolks and whites, mash the yolks fine, chop the whites very fino 
aud set them to one side. 

Have a large flat dish, in which put four large spoonfulv 
mixed mustard ; pour in a little oil, and with a fork rub it 
in till smooth, then a little vinegar, in which has been melted 
two full tablespoonfuls of salt, then oil, and alternately put in 
oil and vinegar, each time rubbing it in till well mixed. When 
you have mixed a whole bottle of oil and one pint vinegar till 
it is as smooth as butter, add one heaping teaspoonful cayenne 
pepper, three teaspoonfuls celery-seed rubbed fine in a mortar, 
and one large mango cut fine, put in stuffing and all. 

Have ready as much celery as you have fowl, cut fine, mix 
meat and celery carefully together, and pour the dressing over 
all.— Jfr*. E. I. 

Chicken Salad. 

One large chicken boiled ; when cold remove the skin and 
chop into a dish, over which throw a towel slightly dipped in 
cold water to keep the meat moist. When the celery is cut, 
put between clean cloths to dry. 

Take one tablespoonful best mustard, the yolk of one raw 
egg, which drop into a dish large enough to hold all the dress, 
ing ; beat well for ten minutes and slowly add to the mustard 
one tablespoonful vinegar. 

When well mixed add three-eighths bottle of oil, a drop at a 
time, always stirring the same way. 

Rub the yolks of six hard-boiled eggs very smooth and stir in 
half a teacup of vinegar. Pour this mixture to the mustard, 
oil, etc., stirring together as lightly as possible. 

Add to the chicken one pint chopped celery, a little yellow 
pickle, and half a loaf of stale bread crumbs, and the oil taken 



OHIOKEK SALAD. 195 

from the water in which the chicken has boiled. Salt and pep 
per to taste. 

Pour on the dressing just before serving. If the salad is kept 
too cool the dressing will curdle. — Mrs. E. 

Chicken Salad. 
The meat of 2 boiled fowls chopped very fine. 
2 or 3 heads of cabbage cut fine. 
1 cup olive oil. 
^ pint vinegar. 
Yolks of 9 hard-boiled eggs. 
1 gill made mustard. 
1 small teaspoonful black pepper. 
1 small teaspoonful salt. 
Mix smoothly with the oil and then add the vinegar. — 
Miss JV, 

Chicken Salad for Thirty-five People. 
Yolks of 4 eggs beaten lightly. 
\ box of mixed mustard, and salt to the taste. 
Add slowly, beating all the time, one large sized bottle of 
best salad oil. Lastly, add two-thirds teacup of vinegar. — Mrs. 
C. C. McP. 

Chicken Salad. 

1 head cabbage. 

2 heads celery. 

2 chickens finely minced. 
10 eggs. 

3 small ciicumber pickles. 
1 tablespoonful mustard. 
A little cayenne pepper. 

^ cup butter ; -J- cup cream. 

1 onion. 

1 teaspoonful sugar. 



196 CHICKEN SALAD — OELEEY SALAD. 

Boil the eggs hard, mash the yolks, put in the seasoning with 
a little vinegar. 

Chop up the whites of the eggs, the pickle, chicken, cabbage 
and celery — then mix. If liked, add a little olive oil. — Mrs. 
0. B. 

Chicken Salad, 

Boil a chicken ; while warm, mince it, taking out the bones. 
Put it in a stewpan with boiling water. Then stir together 
until smooth, one quarter of a pound butter, one teaspoonful 
flour and yolk of one raw egg ; all of which add to the chicken 
one half at a time, stirring all well together. 

Season with salt and pepper. 

Let it simmer ten minutes ; then add half a gill of Madeira 
wine, and send to the table while hot. — Mrs. 1*. 

Celery Salad. 
2 boiled eggs. 

1 raw egg. 

2 tablespoonfuls melted butter, or 1 of oil. 
1 tablespoonful sugar. 

1 teaspoonful mustard. 
^ teaspoonful salt. 
^ teaspoonful pepper. 
\ teacup vinegar. 
Rub the yolks of eggs smooth, then add the oil, mustard, etc., 
the vinegar last. Cut the celery into pieces half an inch long. 
Set all in a cool place. 

Just before serving sprinkle over a little salt and black pep- 
per, then pour over the dressing. 

If you have any cold fowl, chicken, or turkey left from 
dinner, chop it up and mix it with some of the above — equal 
proportions of both — and it will make a delicious salad ; or a 
few oysters left in the tureen will be a great addition to tho 
celery salad. — Mrs. 8. T. 



tomato salad veal and potato salad, 197 

Tomato Salad. 
8 large tomatoes. 
1 tablespoonful made mustard. 

1 tablespoonful salad oil. 

2 tablespoonfuls wliite sugar. 
4 hard-boiled eggs. 

1 raw egg beaten. 

2 teaspoonfuls salt. 

1 saltspoon nearly full cayenne pepper. 
|- teacup vinegar. 
First rub the yolks of eggs smooth, adding mustard, oil, 
sugar, salt, pepper and beaten raw egg — then the vinegar. The 
tomatoes should be peeled and sliced and set in the refrigerator 
— the dressing also. 

Just before serving, cover the tomatoes with ice broken up ; 
sprinkle over a little salt and pour over the dressing. — Mrs. 
S. T. 

A Salad of Turnips. 
Scrape six common sized turnips. 
Add 2 cups of sugar. 
1 or more cups vinegar. 
Mustard, celery-seed, and pepper to taste. 

G. A. B. 



Potato Salad. 
Boil your potatoes very carefully ; or, rather, steam them 
until very dry and mealy ; cut in slices and prepare a dress- 
ing of egg, onion, mustard, oil, pepper, salt, and vinegar, and 
pour over them. — W. S. S. 

Veal and Pota.to Salad. 

Take equal proportions of cold veal and boiled Irish pota- 
toes. 

Shred the veal and cut up the potatoes. Season with a little 
butter or oil, vinegar, salt, pepper, celery, and mustard. — Mrs. H. 



198 leish potato salad ^lettuce balm). 

Irish Potato Salad. 
Cut ten or twelve cold boiled potatoes into small pieces. 
Put into a salad bowl with — 

4 tablespoonfuls vinegar. 
4 tablespoonfuls best salad oil. 
1 teaspoonful minced parsley. 
Pepper and salt to taste. 
Stir all well that they may be thoroughly mixed ; it should 
be made several hours before putting on the table. 

Throw in bits of pickle, cold fowl, a garnish of grated 
cracker, and hard-boiled eggs. — Mrs. G. Y. McG., Aldbamw,. 

Potato Salad. 
To one quart potatoes mashed fine and rubbed through 
a colander : 

1 tablespoonful fresh butter. 
1 teaspoonful salt. 

1 teaoupful rich milk. 
Cream all together and beat until light. 

Rub the yolks of three hard-boiled eggs with — 

2 teaspoonfuls mustard. 
2 teaspoonfuls sugar. 

1 teaspoonful pepper. 
1 teaspoonful salt. 
Enough pepper vinegar to moisten. 
Then chop the whites of the eggs very fine and mix in. 
Put a layer of the potatoes in the salad-bowl an J with 
a spoon put the dressing over in spots. Another layer of pota- 
toes, then the dressing, and so on, putting the dressing on top. 
Gkimish with curled parsley, and serve. — Mrs. S. T. 

Lettuce Salad. 
Take two large lettuces, after removing the outer leaves and 
rinsing the rest in cold water, cut lengthwise in four or six 
pieces, rub into a bowl and sprinkle over them — 



OOIJ) SLAW. 199 

1 teaspoonful salt. 

■J- teaspoonful pepper. 
3 ounces salad oil. 

2 ounces English, or 1 ounce French vinegar. 

Stir the salad lightly in the bowl until well mixed. Tarragon 
and chevies, or a little water or mustard cress. — Mrs. H. 

Slaw. 
Chop fine one head of cabbage put in a pan. 
1 cup cream. 
1^ teaspoonful mustard. 
1 teaspoonful salt. 
1 tablespoonful butter. 
1 tablespoonful sugar. 
And yolk of one egg, beaten light. 
When boiled add one-half cup of strong vinegar ; stir well 
and pour over the cabbage. — Mrs. JE. T. 

Cold Slaw. 

Wash well and shred fine, a firm white cabbage. 

Boil one teacup vinegar. 

One tablespoonful butter in a little flour, stir this in ths vin- 
egar. 

Beat the yolks of four eggs till light and stir also in the mixt- 
ure, just before taking from the fire. 

Add mustard, pepper, and salt, to the butter and flour, before 
putting in the vinegar. 

Pour all, when hot, over the cabbage and set away to cool. — 
Mrs. M. C. 

Gold Slam. 
Wash your cabbage and lay in cold water some hours. Have 
a seasoning of egg, mustard, oil, pepper, salt, celery-seed, and 
vinegar, and pour over it. In winter the slaw will keep a day 
or two. — Mrs. W. 



200 lettuce dressed fish 8a0oe. 

Lettuce Dressed. 

Take well headed lettuce, chop it fine and pour over a dressing 
made of salt and pepper, mustard, hard-boiled egg, and olive 
oil. 

Cream the yolk of the egg and mustard together with a little 
oil, until quite smooth. Add vinegar if desired. — Mrs. It. 

Lettuce Dressed, 
Lettuce chopped fine. 
^ cup vinegar. 
■^ cup ice-water. 
1 tablespoonful white sugar. 
1 teaspoonful salt. 

1 saltspoonful cayenne. 

2 hard-boiled eggs, chopped. 
1 onion chopped. 

1 tablespoonful made mustard. 

1 tablespoonful of olive oil. — Mrs. S. T. 



SAUCES. 



Sauce for Salad or Fish. 
Yolks of two hard-boiled eggs, mashed well with mixed 
mustard, pepper, salt, three tablespoonfuls salad oil, three of 
vinegar and one of tomato capsup. — Mrs. J". H. F. 

Fish Sauce. 

Six hard-boiled eggs, shopped and stirred into two cups of 
drawn butter. 

Let it simmer, then add one tablespoonful of pepper-sauce, 
two tablespoonfuls minced parsley, a little thyme, and salt to 
the taste. 

Pour over the fish and slice a lemon overall. — Mrs. S. T. 



bauoe fob fish dutch satjoe fok fish. 201 

Sauce for Fish. 

Yolks of three eggs, one tablespoonful vinegar, half a table- 
spoonful fresh butter, a little salt. 

To be stirred over a slow fire till it thickens, it must only 
be warm or it will curdle and spoil. — Mrs. S. 

Sauce for Cod's Head. 
Take a lobster, stick a skewer through the tail, to keep the 
water out; throw a handful of salt in the water. When it 
boils put in the lobster and boil half an hour ; pick off the 
spawns, if any, and pound them very fine in a marble mortar 
and put them in one-half pound drawn butter. Take the meat 
out of the lobster, pull it in bits and put it in your butter ; add : 

1 spoonful walnut catsup. 

1 slice of lemon. 

1 or 2 slices horseradish. 
A little pounded mace. 
Salt and cayenne pepper. 

Boil them one minute ; then take out the lemon ami horse- 
radisli, and serve it up in the sauce-boat. — Mrs. H. 

Dutch Sauce for Fish. 
J- teaspoonful flour. 

2 ounces butter. 

4 tablespoonfuls vinegar. 

Yolks of two eggs. 

Juice of half a lemon. 

Salt to the taste. 
Put all the ingredients, except the lemon juice, into a ste\r. 
pan ; set it over the fire and keep constantly stirring. When it 
is suflBciently thick, take it ofi", as it should not boil. If; how- 
over, it happens to curdle, strain the sauce through a taminy, 
add the lemon juice, and serve. Tarragon vinegar may be ustsd 
instead of plain, and by many is considered far preferable. — 

Mrs. a 



202 maItee d'h6te sauoe — ^hoesebadish sauce. 

MaItee d' E6te Sauce. 
It is nothing more than butter-sauce made thus : 
Add to one teacup drawn butter, the juice of one-half lemon. 

2 teaspoonfuls chopped parsley. 
A little minced onion and thyme. 
Cayenne pepper and salt to taste. 

Beat with an egg-whip while simmering. Good for almost 
any dish of fish or meat. — Mrs. S. T. 

Fish Sauce. 

3 tablespoonfuls butter. 

1 wineglassful vinegar. 

2 wineglassfuls tomato or mushroom catsup. 

Pepper, salt, and mustard to the taste. Stew tiU well mixed. 
—Mrs. J. D. 

Anchovy Sauce. 

Soak eight anchovies in cold water, for several hours ; cu*; 
up and stew in a very little water for twenty minutes ; strain 
into one teacup drawn butter. 

Pour all in a saucepan and set it on the fire. Beat it up 
until it comes to a boil ; pour into a sauce tureen. Add a little 
cayenne pepper ; one squeeze of lemon. — Mrs. S. T. 

HOKSEKADISH SaUCE. 

Grate one teacupful horseradish. 

1 tablespoonful ground mustard. 

1 tablespoonful sugar. 

4 tablespoonfuls vinegar, or olive oil if preferred. 

Pepper and salt. 

1 teaspoonful turmeric. — Mrs. J. H. T. 

Celery sauce is good made in the same way, by adding butter 
instead of oil, and celery instead of horseradish. — Mrs. P. W. 



pkppee vinegab — ^musheoom satjoe. 203 

Mushroom Sauce, for Fried or Broiled Fish. 

Get fine-grown fresh gathered mushrooms ; break them up 
and sprinkle salt over them. Let them lie for the juice to run 
out, stirring them often. When the juice has been extracted, 
strain it, boil well with a little ginger and pepper. 

Do not season much, as it is the mushroom flavor to be 
desired. You can add seasoning as required ; all necessary to 
keep it is enough salt and pepper. 

This makes a nice flavoring for any sauce or gravy mixed 
with soy or lemon pickle. — Mrs. G. G. 

Pepper Vinegar. 

Fill a quart bottle with small peppers, either green or ripe ; 
put in two tablespoonfuls sugar, and fill with good cider vine- 
gar. 

Invaluable in seasoning sauces, and good to eat with fish or 
meat. If small peppers cannot be obtained, cut up large pods 
instead. — Mrs. S. T. 

Tomato Sauce. 

Scald and peel six large ripe tomatoes ; chop them up and stew 
slowly. Cream one tablespoonful butter, one tablespoonful 
sugar, one tablespoonftd flour, together. 

"When the tomatoes are thoroughly done, and reduced to a 
fine pulp, add pepper and salt. 

Stir the butter, sugar, and flour in. Let boU up and serve. 
—Mrs. S. T. 

Mushroom Sauce. 

Roll a piece of butter as large as an egg into one heaping 

«aspoonful sifted flour ; stir in two tablespoonfuls warm water ; 

ec it simmer. Pour in one teacup cream, and stir ; throw in 

one pint young mushrooms, washed, picked, and skinned ; add 

pepper, salt, another small piece of butter. 

Let it boil up once, shaking the pan well, and serve. — Mr». 
S. T. 



204 onion sauce white sauce foe fowls. 

Onion Sauce. 

Boil fc ar or five large white onions in salt and water ; change 
the water, then drain them. Chop fine and boil with one tea- 
cup new milk, salt, pepper, and one tablespoonful peppe- sauce. 

Add drawn butter and serve. — Mrs. S. T. 

Nasturtium Sauce. 
This is made by stirring into one teacup drawn butter, three 
tablespooufuls pickled nasturtiums, adding a little salt and pep- 
per. Simmer gently and serve. — Mrs. S. T. 

Apple Sauce. 
Pare and slice some tart apples ; stew until tender in a very 
little water, then reduce to a smooth pulp. Stir in sugar and 
butter to the taste, a squeeze of lemon juice, and a little nut- 
meg. — Mrs. S. T. 

Mint Sauce. 
3 tablespoonfuls vinegar. 
2 tablespoonfuls mint. 
1 tablespoonful powdered sugar. 
1 saltspoonful salt. 
Mix ten minutes before using. — Mrs. S. T. 

Sauces espeoially suitable for Fowls, though they may he 
used for any hind of Meats. 

White Sauce for Fowls. 

Take the neck, gizzard, liver, and feet of fowls, with a piece 
of mutton or veal, if you have any, and boil in one quart water 
with a few whole peppers, and salt, till reduced to one pint ; 
then thicken with a quarter pound butter mixed with fiour and 
boil it five or six minutes. 

Mix the yolks of two eggs with one teacup good cream ; put 
it in the saucepan, shaking over the fire till done. — Mi s. Dr. S 



sauce foe boiled poultey — drawn butter. 205 

Sauce tor Boiled Poultry. 
One stick of white, blanched celery, chopped very small ; put 
it in a saucepan with one quart milk and a few black pepper- 
corns ; let it boil gently, till reduced to one pint. Keep stir- 
ring the celery up with the milk until it is in a pulp. Thicken 
the whole with the yolk of one fresh egg well beaten, and half 
a teacup of fresh cream. — Mrs. S. 

Celery Sauce. 

Chop celery into pieces half an inch long, enough to fill one 
pint measure, and stew in a small quantity of water till tender. 
Add one tablespoonful pepper vinegar, a little salt and pepper ; 
pour in one teacup cream or milk, then add a sufficient quantity 
of drawn butter.— Jfrs. S. T. 

Egg Sauce. 
Cut up six hard-boiled eggs, with salt and pepper to taste. 
Stir in a sufficient quantity of drawn butter, adding, just 
as you serve, minced onion, parsley, and thyme. — Mrs. S. T. 

Asparagus Sauce. 

Parboil one bunch of asparagus, first scraping. When nearly 

done, drain and cut in small pieces. Stew in a teacup of milk, 

with pepper and salt. When done pour into drawn butter, and 

serve. — Mrs. S. T. 

OYSTEa Sauce. 

Scald one pint large fresh oysters, just enough to plump 
them ; adding one tablespoonful pejDper vinegar, a little black 
pepper and salt. 

Pour into a sufficient quantity of drawn butter and serve. — 

Mrs. S. T. 

Drawn Butter. 

Take one-quarter pound of best fresh butter, cut it up and mix 
with it two teaspoonfuls flour ; when thoroughly mixed, put it 
into a saucepan and add to it four tablespooufuls cold water. 



206 DEAWN BtlTTEE — MUSHROOM BAUOB. 

Cover the pan and set it in a kettle of boiling water, shake i ■ 
round continually, always moving it the same way. When tht 
butter is entirely melted and begins to simmer, then let it rest 
im.til it boils up. In melting butter for pudding, some substi- 
tute milk for water. — Mrs. Dr. 8. 

Drawn Dutter. 

Cream together one-quarter pound fresh butter, with two 
heaping teaspoonfuls sifted flour ; add to this six teaspoonfuls 
water. 

Put it in a small tin saucepan and set it in a vessel of boiling 
■water, until it begins to simmer, shaking it often, — Mrs. S. T. 

Drmon Dutter. 

Rub a piece of butter in a little flour, add two or three table- 
spoonfuls boiling water. 

Shake continually over the fire without letting it boil, till it 
thickens. — Mrs. P. W. 

Ckanberry Sauce. 
Stew two quarts cranberries ; putting only water enough to 
keep from sticking to the bottom of kettle. Keep covered 
until nearly done, then stir in one quart white sugar, and boil 
until thick. The color is finer when the sugar is added just 
before the sauce is done. — Mrs. S. T. 

MusHBOOM Sauce. 

Wash and pick one pint young mushrooms, rub them with 
salt to take off the tender skin. Put them in a saucepan with 
a little salt, nutmeg, one blade of mace, one pint cream, lump A 
butter rubbed in flour. 

Bon them up and stir till done, then pour it round the 
chickens. Garnish with lemon. — Mrs. G. G 



SALAD DBE88INQ ^DEESSING TOE SALAD. 207 

SALAD DRESSINGS. 

Take the yolk of one raw egg ; add to that one-half table- 
spoonful of either dry or thickly mixed mustard, salt and pep 
per to your taste. 

When well mbced together, add sweet oil in very small 
quantities, at a time, stirring briskly until it is very thick. 
Then add a little vinegar, but not sufficient to make the dress- 
ing thin. These are the proportions for the yolk of one rav 
egg, sufficient for four people. The quantity of eggs, mustard, 
etc., must be increased in proportion to the quantity of dressing 
needed. — Mrs. McK. 

Salad Dressing. 
Beat two eggs. Add butter size of half an egg. 
^ teaspoonful mustard rubbed smooth in a little water. 
4 tablespoonfuls vinegar. 
^ teacupful boiling water. 

Set it in a bowl on top of the tea-kettle and stir until as 
thick as cream. — Mrs. TF. S. M. 

Dressing. 
To one tumblerful vinegar, warmed in a stewpan, add four 
beaten eggs ; stir for a few minutes till cooked like boiled cus- 
tard. Then throw in : 

A teaspoonful of salt. 
1 teaspoonful of sugar. 
1 teaspoonful of mustard. 
1 teaspoonful of pepper. 

A lump of butter size of half an egg, instead of oil. 
Stir well and pour out. Will keep for weeks. Good for 
chicken salad. — Mrs. 'W. 

Dressing for Salad. 
Turkey is more economical and better for salad than chicken 
To one turkey, weighing about nine pounds, allow nine eggs : 



208 DEESSING FOE CUIOKEN SALAD. 

7 hard-boiled eggs. 

2 raw eggs, yolks and whites beaten separately. 

To each egg allow 2 tablespoonfuls salad oil, perfectly pure 

and sweet. 
1 saltspoonful salt. 

1 saltspoonful made mustard. 

2 saltspoonfuls cayenne pepper to the whole amount. 
Celery to the taste. 

Lettuce leaves, if in season, using only the heart. 

The juice of 2 lemons. 

This will last a week. — Mrs. A. M. D. 

Dressing for Chicken Salad. 
To fbur chickens, the yolks of twelve eggs mashed very 
smooth with : 

1 raw egg beaten light. 

\ teacup of mustard. 

^ teaspoonful red pepper. 

1 teacup salad oil. 

1 cup of vinegar. 

1 quart of cut celery. 

Salt to the taste. 



—Mrs. J. W. 



Lettuce Dressing. 



1 raw egg. 

1 tablespoonful sugar. 

1 teaspoonful salt. 

^ teaspoonful mustard. 

A little cayenne pepper (never use black pepper on lettuce). 

2 tablespoonfuls best olive oil. 

1 tablespoonful vinegar. — Miss R. S. 

Dressing for Caubage. 
The yolk of an egg. 
1 teaspoonful salt. 



BAHA MAYONNAISE — SALAD FDR SLAW. 209 

1 teaspoonful mustard. 

2 teaspooufuls sugar, masbed smooth. 
1 cup of cream. 

Vinegar to your taste. 

—Mrs. E. a G. 

Sana Mayonnaise. 

The yolks (raw) of two eggs. 

Stir in oil, a drop at a time, until it begins to thicken, and 
then pour it in slowly still, hnt in greater quantities, stirring 
continually. Add cayenne pepper, salt, and vinegar to the 
taste. 

If mustard is liked in the sauce, it must be mixed with the 
yolks of the eggs before dropping the oil. 

This sauce should be nearly as thick as soft butter. It makes 
a delicious dressing for lettuce, celery, cold poultry or game ; 
and also for cold boiled fish or pickled salmon. If used with 
the latter, the salmon should be placed in the centre of the dish 
and covered thickly with sauce. 

Boiled chestnuts, peeled, small pickled onions, sliced cucum- 
bers, lettuce, etc., are a great addition, and should be used to 
dress or garnish the dish, but not be mixed with the salmon. — 
Mrs. M P., Cin. 

Salad fob Slaw. 

3 eggs well beaten. 

Nearly a cup of sugar. 

1 tablespoonful butter. 

1 tablespoonful mustard. 

Pepper and salt to your taste. 

Tumbler of milk. 

Tumbler of vinegar. 

Stir well over the fire until as thick as custard. Let it cool 

and pour over cabbage. — Mrs. R. A. 

18 



210 deessmg foe cold slaw salad dressing. 

Dressing for Cold Slaw. 

1 cup of vinegar. 

2 eggs well beaten, 
1 teaspoonful salt. 

1 teaspoonful mustard. 
1 tablespoonful sugar. 
1 tablespoonful butter. 
A little black pepper. 
Mix together the butter, salt, pepper, sugar, mustard ; add 
the eggs last. 

Have the vinegar boiling and pour it on, stirring all the 
time. Then pour it back in the saucepan and boil a few 
minutes. Pour on the slaw when cold. — Miss iV. 

Lettuce Dressing. 

Yolks of 4 eggs. 

1 teacup milk. 

1 teacup vinegar. 

4 tablespoonfuls oil or melted butter. 
After mixing all well together, except the vinegar, let it 
come to a boU. When cold, beat well, add the vinegar, salt, 
pepper, and made mustard to suit the taste. Keep corked in 
a bottle. — Mra. A. M. D. 

Salad Dressing. 

Put one tumbler vinegar, and one lump butter, size of an 
egg, on to boil. 

Beat up the yolks of three or four eggs, and pour the boUing 
vinegar over them, stirring all the time ; return it to the five 
and continue to stir, until it thickens like custard. When it is 
perfectly cold add one tumblerful cream, into which has been 
mixed one tablespoonful salt, one tablespoonful mustard, two 
spoonfuls sugar, and one spoonful bruised celery-seed. 

Bottle the dressing and it will keep for a month. — Mrs. P. 



oeleet dressing — bettnswiok stew. 211 

Celery Dkessing. 
2 tablespoonfuls butter. 
2 beaten eggs. 
1 teaspoonful salt. 
1 teaspoonful mixed mustard. 
1 cup vinegar. 

1 cup fresh milk or cream. 
Boil and use cold. — Mrs. I. D. 

To Dress Celery. 
Beat light the yolk of one egg ; add : 

2 tablespoonfuls cream. 

1 tablespoonful white sugar. 

3 tablespoonfuls vinegar. 
1 teaspoonful olive oil. 

1 teaspoonful mustard. 
1 teaspoonful salt. 

—Mrs. Dr. S. 



BRUNSWICK STEWS, GUMBO, AND SIDE DISHES. 

Brunswick Stew. 

A twenty-five cent shank of beef. 

A five-cent loaf of bread- — square loaf, as it has more crumb, 
and the crust is not used. 

1 quart potatoes cooked and mashed. 

1 quart cooked butter-beans. 

1 quart raw com. 

1^ quart raw tomatoes peeled and chopped. 

If served at two o'clock, put on the shank as for soup, at the 
earliest possible hour ; then about twelve o'clock take the 
shank out of the soup and shred and cut all of the meat as fine 



312 BEtTNSWICK STB-W. 

as you can, carefully taking out bone ana gristle, and then 
return it to the soup-pot and add all of the vegetables ; the 
bread and two slices of middling are an improvement to it. 

Season with salt and pepper to the taste ; and when ready to 
serve, drop into the tureen two or three tablespoonfuls butter. 

This<makes a tureen and about a vegetable-dish full, — Mrs, 
R.P. 

Brumswick Stew. 

About four hours before dinner, put on two or three slices of 
bacon, two squirrels or chickens, one onion sliced, in one gallon 
water. Stew some time, then add one quart peeled tomatoes, 
two ears of grated corn, three Irish potatoes sliced, and one 
handful butter-beans, and part pod of red pepper. 

Stew altogether about one hour, till you can take out the 
bones. When done, put in one spoonful bread crumbs and one 
large spoonful butter. — Mrs. M. M. J). 

£rvm,smck Stew. 
Take one chicken or two squirrels, cut them up and put one- 
half gallon water to them. Let it stew until the bones can be 
removed. Add one-half dozen large tomatoes, one-half pint 
butter-beans, and corn cut from half a dozen ears, salt, pepper, 
and butter as seasoning. — Mrs. I. S. 

Srwnswick Stew. 

Take two chickens or three or four squirrels, let them boil in 
water. Cook one pint butter-beans, and one quart tomatoes ; 
cook with the meat. When done, add one dozen ears corn, 
one dozen large tomatoes, and one pound butter. 

Take out the chicken, cut it into small pieces and put back ; 
cook until it is well done and thick enough to be eaten with a 
fork. 

Season with pepper and salt. — Mrs. R. 



GUMBO. 213 

Gumbo. 

Put one tablespoonful lard into a pan. Slice two onions and 
fry them in it a few minutes. Have ready a chicken cut up, 
and fry it in the lard till it slightly browns, also one or two slices 
of bacon or pork, and three or four bunches parsley cut up. 

Have a heaping plateful of ochra cut up ; put that in the pan 
and let it wilt a few minutes (you must stir it), then add three 
or four tomatoes cut up. Then put the whole into a stewpan, 
pour hot water to it, not quite as much as for soup. Let it boil 
until quite thick. Season with pepper and salt, also red or green 
pod pepper. 

It must be dished like soup and eaten with rice ; the rice to 
be boiled dry and served in a vegetable dish ; put one or two 
spoonfuls in a plate and pour the gumbo over it. — Mrs. G-. 

Grwmho. 

Cut up two chickens, fry slightly with a little onion, and a 
few slices pickled pork. 

Put in three or four quarts boiling water, together with 
pepper and salt, eighteen okras, one-half peck cut up tomatoes. 

Stew one hour and a half. — Mrs. D. It. 

Gumbo. 

Take one chicken, frying size, cut up in hot lard ; add one 
quart ochra chopped fine, and one good sized onion chopped fine, 
when the chicken begins to brown, stirring all the time until it 
ceases to rope and is a nice brown. 

Then put it into a deep vessel and pour on enough boiling 
water to make soup for ten or twelve persons, adding two or 
three tomatoes, skinned and sliced, two ears of tender com, 
salt, and black and red pepper to the taste. 

Let the whole boil one hour. 

Boil rice very dry "and serve with it. — Mrs. P McG. 



214 qtjmbc filit a la creole veal pat^s. 

Gumbo Filit 1 la Creole. 
Pub into a deep pot one tablespoonful lard, when hot put ir 
one tablespoonful flour, stir in until brown, then slice one 
large onion and fry it till brown ; skim out the onion and do 
not put it back until a chicken cut up in small pieces has been 
fried. Stir it all the time. Have a kettle of boiling water 
near by ; pour one or two cups of water on the chicken, stir 
well and let it simmer slowly. Add: 
10 allspice. 
8 cloves. 

Red and black pepper. 
Parsley and thyme if you like it. 
Put in two quarts of water, boiling, and let it boil gently two 
hours. Have ready the liquor from one quart oysters, put that 
in with the water ; put the oysters in later, allowing them time 
to cook. When ready to serve stir in one tablespoonful filit, 
boil up once. To be eaten with rice cooked dry. 

N. B. FiUt is only pulverized sassafras leaves, dried and 
sifted; you can make it yourself. — Mrs. S., La. 

Veal Pat^s. 

3 J pounds leg of veal. 

\ pound salt pork. 

6 soda crackers rolled and sifted. 

1 tablespoonful salt. 

1 tablespoonful black pepper. 

1 nutmeg. 

2 eggs well beaten. 
Butter the size of an egg. 

Hash veal and pork together, cutting very fine Then mix 
seasoning very thoroughly and form into oval shapes. Put a 
small piece of butter and bread crumbs over the top, while in 
the baking dish ; half a teacup water, and baste frequently 
while baking. In moulding it and when mixing it keep welting 



HASHED MUTTON MUTTON HASH. 216 

the hands in cold water, also wet the dish when ycu begin 
moulding it in shape. — Mrs. J. P. JET. 

Hashed Mutton. 

Cut cold mutton into very thin slices, and make a gravy by 
boiling the bones for two hours with a little onion, pepper and 
salt. 

Strain this gravy and thicken it with a little flour, adding a 
small amount of tomato or mushroom gravy to flavor it, and 
a small piece of butter. Wlien the gravy is of a proper con- 
sistency, put ia the slices of mutton, and let it simmer slowly 
for ten minutes. Serve on a platter with parsley and sippets 
of bread. 

Sashed Mutton. 

Fry in a saucepan three small onions, and three small slices 
of bacon or ham, until they are brown ; then add a little more 
than half a pint water, and thicken it with flour. Next strain 
it and add it to the meat with a little sauce ; pepper and salt 
to the taste. 

It will take about an hour to hash. 

Mutton Hash. 
Cut the meat up fine, putting the bones on to stew in water ; 
then take out the bones and put in the hash, with pepper, salt 
and gravy left from the day before. 

Let these stew at least half an hour. Put in one large 
tablespoonful browned flour. Add — 
6 tablespoonfuls red wine. 
1 tablespoonful walnut catsup. 
1 tablespoonful tomato catsup. 
A lump of butter rolled in a little flour. 
If a small dish, proportion the seasoning. 
Beef, goose, and duck hash can be made the same way.— 
Mrs. B. 



216 HOTCH POTOH A NICE SIDE DISH. 

HOTCH POTCH. 

During the summer season get lamb chops, which half fry. 
Cut up cabbage, lettuce, turnips, onions and any other vege- 
tables, which boil, with seasoning of pepper, salt, etc. ; one 
hour before dinner, put in the lamb chops, with some green 
peas ; boil the potatoes separately. 

Scotch Broth. 
3 pounds of the scrag end of a neck of mutton. 
1 onion. 
1 small turnip. 
A little parsley. 
A little thyme. 
Put the mutton in the pan and cover with two quarts cold 
water, add the vegetables and not quite one teacup rice ; one 
small carrot and a little celery added will give a nice flavor. 

When it boils, skim carefully, cover the pan, and let it 
simmer for two hours. Of course, the vegetables must be cut 
small. 

Meat Loaf. 

Chop fine whatever cold meat you may have, fat and lean to- 
gether ; add pepper and salt, one finely chopped onion, two 
slices of bread which have been soaked in milk, and one egg. 

Mix well together and bake in a form. This makes an 
admirable tea or breakfast dish. — Jifrs. J". 

Black Stew. 
Take any kind of fresh meat that has been boiled or roasted, 
cut up enough to make a dish ; put one tablespoonful currant 
jelly, one tablespoonful of wine, one large spoonful butter, one- 
half onion chopped, pepper and salt. 

Stir all together fifteen minutes. Pickle cut up is an improve- 
ment, and brown sugar can be used instead of currant jelly. — 
Mrs J. T. 

A NICE Side-dish. 

Make a mince meat of turkey ; after it is stewed put boiled 



MEAT CEOQUETTES — CHICKEN CEOQUE'lTES. 217 

rice around the dish and set it in an oven to brown. Tlien gar- 
nish with hard boiled eggs. — Mrs. E. I. 

Meat Croquettes. 

Any nice cold meat when nicely minced will make good 
croquettes, especially veal. Take about one-quarter loaf bread, 
well soaked in water and squeezed dry ; mix with the minced 
meat about one dessertspoonful chopped parsley, one dessert- 
spoonful ground ginger, three eggs, a I'inoh of ground mace, 
pepper and salt, roll them into egg-shaped balls ; have ready 
two or three eggs well beaten, in one plate, and flour in another ; 
first roll in the flour, then in the egg, fry in boiling drippings ; 
serve hot. — Mrs. T- 

Croquettes. 

Take cold fowl or fresh meat of any kind, with slices of fat 
ham ; chop together very fine, add one-half as much stale bread 
grated, salt and pepper, grated nutmeg, one tablespoonfal cat- 
sup, one teaspoonful made mustard, and lump of butter size of 
an egg. Mix well together till it resembles sausage meat ; 
mould them into cakes, dip into well beaten yolk of an egg, 
cover thickly with grated bread. Fry a light brown. — Mrs. 
F.D. 

Croquettes. 

Boil or roast a turkey, chop the meat as fine as possible. 
Mix eight beaten eggs with the meat, add one quart of milk, 
one-quarter pound butter, salt and pepper, a little mace. 

Stew all together for a few minutes, then take it off to cool 
and make into little cone shapes. Roll each one into pounded 
crackers and drop in boiling lard till a light brown. — Mrs. M. 
E. L. W., Md. 

Chicken Croquettes. 

Cold chicken, chopped parsley, a little cream, grated crackers, 
lemon flavoring, salt and pepper. Cut chicken very fine and 
season with salt and pepper ; add chopped parsley, moisten with 



218 POTATO CEOQTJETTES — CROQUETTES. 

cream sufficient to make paste ; mould in a wineglass with grated 
cracker or bread crumbs on outside. Fry quickly in hot lard. 
Brown ligh*^^ly. Lemon flavoring can be added at will. — Mrs. 

a. p. 

Potato Croquettes. 

Peel, boil, and mash one quart potatoes, mix with yolks of 
four eggs and some milk. 

Set on the fire, stir two minutes ; set on a dish to cool or leave 
overnight. In the morning add a little milk, mix thoroughly, 
roll in bread crumbs ; divide in cakes and fry in lard. Take 
off when done ; drain, dish, and serve immediately. — Mrs. E. 

Croquette Balls. 
Chop up one quart of any cold meat very fine, to which add 
one pint stale bread. Mix up one egg, mustard, pepper, salt 
and butter, and pour over the bread and meat ; roll into balls, 
which must be rolled into the white of an egg, then into bread 
crumbs, and bake a nice brown. This is a nice side-dish for 
breakfast or tea. — Mrs. S. Gr. 

Croquettes. 

Have some nice pieces of veal or fowl, chopped fine, season 
with nutmeg, pepper and salt to your taste. 

Boil one-half pint milk with one small garlic. Thicken with 
two tablespoonfuls flour, and one tablespoonful butter. 

Let it remain till thoroughly done ; stir in the meat and then 
form the croquettes. Roll in bread crumbs, then the yolk of 
an egg, then in bread crumbs, and fry a nice brown. — Miss E. P. 

Croquettes. 

Take cold meat or fresh meat, with grated ham, fat and lean, 
chopped very fine — add one-half as much stale bread grated, 
salt, pepper, and nutmeg, one tablespoonful catsup, a lump of 
butter. 

Knead all well together — if not soft enough add cream or 



SAUSAGE CROQUETTES MINCE WITH BEEAD CEDMBS. 219 

gravy. Make in cakes the shape of a pear ; dip them in the 
yolk of an egg beaten, roll in dried bread crumbs, and fry a 
light brown. — Mins M. G. L. 

Sausage Croquettes. 
2 pounds of meat. 
4 eggs. 
1 cup butter. 
1 cup milk. 
Add powdered cracker or stale bread crumbs sufficient to 
thicken, while on the fire. Roll in oblong shapes and fry in 
lard. Koll the balls in cracker dust before frying. — Mrs. R. 
K. M. 

Sausage Croquettes. 

One pound sausage meat, two eggs, well beaten, and bread 
crumbs well minced. 

Make the meat into cakes, then roll in the beaten egg, and 
afterwards in bread crumbs. Fry in pan and serve hot. Cold 
ham served in the same way is delicious ; mince it very fine. — 
Mrs. Q. 

Forcemeat Balls. 

One pound of fresh suet, one ounce ready dressed veal, oi 
chicken chopped fine, bread crumbs, a little shallot or onion, salt 
and pepper (white), nutmeg ; parsley and thyme, finely shred. 

Beat as many eggs, yolks and whites separately, as will make 
the above ingredients into a moist paste ; roll into small balls, 
and fry in boiling lard. When of a light brown, take out with 
a perforated skimmer. Forcemeat balls made in this way arc 
remarkably light, but being somewhat greasy, some persons 
prefer them with less suet and eggs. — Mrs. A. M. D. 

MiKCE WITH Bread Crumbs. 
Chop up any kind of cold meat very fine, place in a baking 
dish a layer of bread crumbs, seasoned with lump of butter, 
black pepper, and salt. 



220 MINCE WITH POTATOHS — HASH. 

Then a layer of minced meat, and so on with alternate layers, 
till the dish is filled. Pour over all a cup of rich cream, and 
be sure to have enough lumps of butter to make it rich. Bake 
until it is a good brown on top. — Mrs. C. M. A. 

Mince with Potatoes. 

Chop fine any cold meat ; parboil enough Irish potatoes to be 
two-thirds as many as there is chopped meat. Mix all together 
with one raw egg, one onion, black pepper, and salt. 

Fry with butter, either in large or small cakes in a pan, the 
cakes rather larger than sausages. If you have cold ham, it is 
an advantage to add some of it to the mince ; and the whole is 
very nice made of cold pickled beef. — Mrs. G. M. A. 

Pot Pourri. 
Take any kind of fresh meat chopped fine, and put into a 
stewpan with a little warm water, pepper and salt, and chopped 
onion. Cook twenty minutes; then put into a baking-dish 
with an equal quantity of bread crumbs, and pour over a cup 
of sweet cream. Bake to a light brown. — Mrs. F. D, 

Hash. 

One and one-half teacup of boiling water must be poured 
into a saucepan, mix one heaping spoonful flour with one table- 
spoonful cold water, stir it in and boil three minutes. Then 
add two teaspoonfuls salt, half a small teaspoonful pepper, and 
butter size of an egg. 

After removing all tough, gristly pieces from the cold cooked 
meat, chop it fine with some boiled potatoes. Put them in the 
dressing, heat through, then serve. It injures meat to cook 
it again, making it hard and unpalatable. Should you have 
any cold gravy left, use it; in that case you will require less 
butter, salt and pepper. You can serve it with buttered toast 
underneath, or you may set it into the oven to brown on top. 



CAS8A BOLLS — MOCK TEEEAPIN. 221 

or drop eggs into a skillet of boiling salt water, and when 
cooked, place on top of hash. — Mis. J". 

Cassa Rolls. 

Boil some Irish potatoes until quite done, mash them smooth 
,\nd add an equal quantity of salt meat chopped fine. Mix 
with this several well beaten eggs, one spoonful butter, -jonie 
pepper and salt. 

Bake in little cakes like potato cakes. — Mrs. F. D. 

E,ag6ut Souse. 

Split four feet once, fry with one or two dozen large oysters, 
a light brown. Lay them in a stewpan over the liquor from 
the oysters, or some beef or veal gravy ; add one large spoonful 
butter rolled in flour, one dozen allspice, beaten, one glass red 
wine, one glass walnut catsup, and pepper. 

Stew gently until dinner, skimming off any grease. Garnish 
with hard-boiled eggs. Mace or cloves may be used instead of 
allspice. — Mrs. JB. 

Breakfast Dish. 

Take the remnant of any cold meats, either boiled or roasted. 
Prepare it, as if for chicken salad, in fine shreds. Mix with 
potatoes mashed fine, and add two well-beaten eggs. 

Season with butter, pepper, and other spices if you like. 

Make it into a loaf and bake it brown, or fry it in cakes if 
preferred. — Mrs. «/". JB\ G. 

Mock Terrapin. 

Mince cold veal very fine, sprinkle with salt and cayenne. 
Mash the yolks of three hard-boiled eggs, three tablespoonfuls 
cooking wine, three tablespoonfuls cream or milk, a little nut- 
meg and a little mixed mustard, a large lump of butter with a 
little flour rubbed in. 

Let all steam five minutes, and serve hot on toast. 

A nice relish for breakfast or lunch. — Miss E. S. , La. 



222 bbeakfast dish — pillau. 

Bkeakfast Dish. 
One pound pork sausage, one tablespoonful pounded crackers, 
two well beaten eggs. Work thoroughly together, and make 
into cakes. These will be rather soft, but dropping each one 
into a plate of pounded or grated cracker will enable you to 
handle them. Put into a hot frying-pan. No lard is to b(i 
used, but keep the pan covered while frying. — Miss E. 

Baked Hash. 
Take cold beef or veal, chop the meat very fine, put it in a 
pan with some water; add salt, pepper, butter and bread 
crumbs to taste. Season with a little chopped onion, parsley 
and thyme, all minced fine, half a cup milk or cream with one 
egg beaten. Grate some crumbs over the top, and bake till 
brown. — Mrs. J. H. F. 

Sandwiches. 

Grate one quarter pound cold ham in a bowl, with one table- 
spoonful chopped pickle, one teaspoonful mustard, a little 
black pepper, six dessertspoonfuls butter ; put in a bowl and 
stir quickly until a cream. 

Add the ham and seasoning, mix all together well. Have 
slices of light bread and spread the mixture on each side of each 
slice. 

Cold grated tongue, instead of ham, is very nice spread on the 
inside of biscuit. 



Mince ham and tongue together, and spread between buttered 
bread. Add a little French mustard to the mince if liked.— 
Mrs. B. 

PiLLAU. 

Take cold fresh meat, either chicken or veal, and cut it up 
quite small after taking off the outer skin either fat or gristle. 
Mix it well with some cold rice, then stir this in a batter made 



calf's head pudding — ^pig's head pudding. 223 

of two eggs well beaten, and about one quart milk. Season 
with salt, pepper, and butter. 

Bake in a deep dish. — Mrs. A. S. 

Calf's Head Pudding. 

Skin the head, take out the brains. Thoroughly wash, then 
soak the head one night to extract the blood. Put on in cold 
water and boil five or six hours, or until the bones are ready to 
drop out. Pick it very fine, taking all the bones out ; then add 
the liquor in which it was boiled, one tablespoonful butter, four 
eggs well beaten ; one small piece of lemon or pickle ; one onion, 
if liked ; pepper and salt 

Lay the brains all over the top and bake. Bread crumbs are 
an improvement. The liquor seasoned makes excellent soup. — 
Miss F. E. 

Liver Pudding. 

Take two hog's heads, clean nicely ; two livers, two lights, and 
cut all the good part off half a dozen milts ; half a dozen sweet- 
breads ; half a dozen kidneys, split open. 

Put all together in a tub of salt and water ; let them soak 
Jill night ; take them out next morning, put them in a kettle 
with two slices of fat pork. I^et all boil until done, then take 
it up and let it cool a little and grind it in a sausage mill, and 
while grinding, skim some of the grease off of the kettle and 
pour it into the mill. After it is ground, season with >]ack 
pepper, salt, and onions chopped fine, to suit the taste. 

If it is not rich enough, boil more middling or pork and mix 
with the meat ; if stuffed, boil again a few minutes. 

Pig's Head Pudding. 

Boil head and liver until perfectly done, cut up as for hash. 
Put it on again in warm water and season highly with butter, 
pepper, salt, and a little chopped onion. 

After well seasoned, put in a baking-dish with one egg beaten 



224 POTATO p:e — oeumb pie. 

light. Bake two hours, and lay over hard-boiled eggs sliced, 
and strips of pastry across the top. 

Calf's Head Pudding can be made in the same way. — Mrs. 
Col. S. 

Potato Pie. 

The remains of cold mutton, either roasted or boiled, cut iutu 
nice slices, three hard-boiled eggs, also .sliced, and two or three 
potatoes, seasoning of pepper, salt, and pounded mace to your 
taste. 

All laid alternately in a baking-dish and filled nearly up 
with any gravy or stock at hand ; cover with a potato crust, full 
two inches thick, and bake until the potatoes are a nice brown 
color. If the potatoes are scratched over with a fork, it gives 
them a pretty, rough appearance. To make the crust, boil and 
mash the potatoes with a little butter and milk and a small 
quantity of salt. — Mrs. M. P. 

A NrciE Pie. 

One pound steak, three soft crackers rolled, one small piece 
of butter, two tablespoonfuls of water, salt and pepper. Bake 
in a deep pan. — Mrs. It. 

Potato Pie. 

A savory potato pie is made thus : A layer of mashed pota- 
toes placed in a pie dish and then slices of any cold meat (if 
chicken or veal, slices of tongue or ham may be added), and 
herbs, pepper and salt, sprinkled over to taste. Continue these 
layers alternately till the dish is full ; the potatoes must well 
cover the top, which should have some butter added, and be 
brushed over with the yolk of an egg, and put into the oven tiU 
done through. A little butter on each layer is needed if the 
meat is not fat, and it should not be too fat. — JUrs. S. 

Crumb Pie. 
Mince any cold meat very finely, season it to taste, and put 
it into a pie dish ; have some finely grated bread crumbs, with a 



HAGGIS SQUAB PIE. 225 

little salt, pepper, and nutmeg; and pour into the dish any 
gravy that is at hand. Cover over with a thick layer of bread 
crumbs and put small pieces of butter over top. Place in the 
oven till a fine brown. Send to the table hot. — Mrs. W. 

Haggis. 

Cut cold beef in pieces and mix with mashed potatoes ; fill a 
baking-dish and season with butter, pepper, and salt. Bake and 
serve hot. 

Cold Chicken with Vinegar. 

Cut up the chicken in fine pieces and crack the bones. Sea- 
son with salt and pepper ; put it in a deep baking plate with a 
lump of butter, and one tablespoonful vinegar. Cover it with 
hot water. Put a plate over it and stew on a stove or over hot 
embei's. Add one heaping teacup chopped celery to the mixture 
before cooking. — Mrs. A.. P. 

Devilled Cold Chicken. 
Take the legs and wings of any cold fowl. 
Dress with pepper, salt, mustard, and butter ; then broil. 

GiBLET Pie. 
Made as chicken pie, adding livers of chicken or pigeon, 
which have been boiled in the water left from cooking ; celery 
and sweet herbs. Season with mushroom or walnut catsup. — 
Mrs. T. 

Squab Pie. 

After the squabs are picked and drawn as a large fowl is for 
roasting, wash them and put them in a saucepan with a close 
cover. They should be covered with boiling water and boiled 
slowly till tender, when a little salt and an onion clove should 
be added. Then take them out, drain and dry, and put in each 
squab a teaspoonful of butter, a little pepper, salt, minced parsley 
and thyme. Then put into the cavity of each squab, a hard- 
10* 



226 BEEF OAKES ^BEHFSTEAK AND POTATOES. 

boiled egg. Lay them in a large, round, earthen baking dish, 
three or four inches deep. Strain over them the liquor in 
■which they were simmered. Add a tablespoonful of butter and 
a teacup of milk or cream. Sift in two tablespoonfuls of 
cracker crumbs not browned, a tablespoonful of minced parsley 
and thyme, and a little salt. Put in a few slips of pastry. 
Cover with a rich crust and bake. 

The same recipe will answer for robins, except that the eggs 
must be chopped, instead of being placed whole in the cavity of 
the bird.— Jlfrs. S. T. 

Beef Cakes. 

Chop pieces of roast beef very fine. Mix up grated bread 
crumbs, chopped onions, and parsley ; season with pepper and 
salt, moisten with a little dripping or catsup. 

Cold ham or tongue may be added to improve it. 

Make in broad, flat cakes, and spread a coat of mashed pota 
toes on the top and bottom of each. Lay a piece of butter on 
every cake and put it in an oven to brown. 

Other cold meats may be prepared in the same way for 
a breakfast dish. — Mrs. D. 

Fish and Potatoes. 

Boil salmon or other fish ; mash tip boiled Irish potatoes ; 
chop yolks of hard boiled eggs. 

Mix all together with butter ; make very hot, and keep it so 
at table. — Mrs. H. 

Beefsteak and Potatoes. 

Cut up in a stewpan, with cold water, and stew till well 
cooked, the steak you will use ; mash some potatoes with 
creamed butter, pepper and salt. 

Line a baking dish with it and put in the steak, seasoning 
with butter, pepper, and salt. Bake a little while. 



baoon feai8e — maoaeoni. 227 

Bacon Fraise. 
Take a nice piece of middling about six inches square, pare 
off the skin and cut in small square pieces, then fry it. Make 
a batter of three pints flour, five eggs, one handful parsley, 
chopped fine. Beat all light and fry with bacon. Serve 
hot. This will make two dishes. — Mrs. M. D. 

Italian manner of Cooking Macaroni. 

One and a half pound macaroni, parboiled with a little salt, 
and one clove garKc. One pound of beef chopped fine, lean 
and fat stewed with one pint tomatoes. 

Alternate layers of macaroni and the stewed beef with 
grated cheese. Add cayenne pepper, salt, butter, and a little 
wine. 

A thick layer of grated cracker crumbs and cheese on top. 
Serve ■•vith a stand of grated Stilton cheese. — Mrs. R. R. 

Macaroni. 
Break into pieces one inch long and put in the dish you 
wish to fill, filling it only one-third full. Wash well and boil 
in a covered stewpan until soft and tender, drain off all the 
water ; cover with this the bottom of a baking dish. Sprinkle 
over pepper and salt, grated cracker, bits of butter and grated 
cheese ; then another layer of macaroni, etc., in. the same 
order. When the dish is filled, pour over fresh milk until all 
is barely covered. Sift over pounded cracker and set in the 
oven. If it becomes too brown, sift over more cracker before 
serving. — Mrs. S. T. 

Macaroni. 

Boil one-half pound macaroni in water, with salt, one small 
onion and two blades mace. 

Put in one sweetbread, chopped fine, or the same amount of 
fresh veal, the nice part being taken. 

BoU till tender before taking it up, drain off the water and 
add one large spoonful butter, one-half pint milk, a quantity of 



228 MACARONI — HOMINT OKOQUETTES. 

grated cheese ; one teaspoonful mustard ; two teaspoonfuls black 
pepper, one pint skinned tomatoes, salt to the taste ; one egg, 
beaten up, is a great improvement. 

Butter a deep dish and bake the macaroni a light brown. 
Have it served with a small bowl of grated cheese, of the best 
(j lality, so that each one may add what they like. — Mrs. M. G, 

Maca/roni. 
Parboil enough macaroni to make a dish ; lay alternate 
layers of macaroni, and grated cheese. Season with salt, 
pepper, and butter ; add three eggs, well beaten, and enough 
milk to fill a dish. Sprinkle bread crumbs over top and bake. 
—Mrs. B. A. 

Macaroni. 

To one and one-half po\ind macaroni, add one pound beef, 
chopped fine. Make a stew of the beef with one quart water, 
one clove of garlic, catsup, tomato, or walnut, to suit the taste, 
one dessertspoonful currant jelly, salt and pepper. 

Boil the macaroni ; put in a pan a layer of macaroni and a 
layer of cheese, with plenty of butter, using quarter of a pound 
of butter for the dish. 

Then pour the stew over the top, and bake fifteen minutes. — 
Miss M. B. B. 

To Boil Hominy. 

Take two quarts of hominy, wash through several waters 
until the water is clear ; put it on to boil in a pot half full of 
water, with a plate turned down in the bottom of the pot to 
prevent its burning. Boil for six hours — do not stir it ; when 
done, take off the vessel and set it aside in a cool place. When 
it is ready to fry, put a little lard in the pan, let it get hot, 
and mash in the hominy ; then add a little salt. Put it in the 
pan and press down ; let it fry till brown, turning it upside 
down on the dish. — Mrs. P. W. 

Hominy Ckoquettes. 
To one cup cold boiled hominy, add two teaspoonfuls melted 



FRIED HOMINY — SWEETBREAD, MUSHROOM PATES. 239 

butter, and stir it well, adding by degrees one cup milk, till all 
is made in a soft light paste ; adding one well-beaten egg. 

EoU into oval balls with floured hands ; dip in beaten egg, 
then roll in cracker crumbs and fry in hot lard. — Mrs. M. 

Fried Hominy. 
Warm the boiled hominy ; add a piece of butter, a little salt_ 
half a pint cream, two eggs, and flour enough to stiffen tlie nuxt- 
ure. Fry like mashed potatoes. — Mrs. E. 

To Boil Hominy. 
Soak in hot water the overnight. Next morning wash out 
in two waters and boil thoroughly. A little milk added to the 
water whitens and seasons it. — Mrs. TF. 

To Stew, Fry, or Broil Mushrooms. 
After you have peeled them, sprinkle with salt and pepper 
and put them in a stewpan with a little water and lump of 
butter. Let them boil fast for ten minutes and stir in a thick- 
ening of flour and cream. They may be broiled on a gridiron, 
and seasoned with butter. Fry them also in butter. The large 
mushrooms are used for the two latter modes of cooking tliem. 
—Mrs. C. C. 

Sweetbread and Mushroom Pat£s. 

Ten sweetbreads, parboiled, skinned and all the fat removed ; 
cut into small jjieces. Add one even teaspoonful salt, one can of 
French uiuslirooms. Slice thin, add to juice one teaspooiiful 
salt, one teaspoonful pepjjor, one saltspoonful powdered mace, 
lump of butter size of guinea egg. 

Simmer slowly twenty minutes. Add sweetbreads di-edged 
with one heiijiing spoonful corn starch, well mixed in the. 
sweetbread. Let it boil up once, stirring to prevent sticking. 
Serve in puft" p9.ste shapes, hot. A little chopped parsley may 
De added —Ifrs. E. R. 



230 TO STEW MUSHROOMS — FONDfiB. 

To Stew Mushrooms. 

One pint mushroom buttons, three ounces fresh butter, pep- 
per and salt to taste, lemon juice, one teaspoonful flour, cieam 
or milk a little nutmeg. 

Pare the mushrooms, put them into a basin of water with a 
little lemon juice. Take them from the water, put into a stew- 
pan, with the above ingredients. Cover the pan closely and let 
them stew gently twenty minutes. If the mushrooms are not 
perfectly tender, stew them five minutes longer ; remove every 
particle of butter which may be floating on top, and serve. — 

Mrs. a C. 

Broiled Musheooms. 
CleaiLse the large mushrooms by wiping with flannel and a 
little salt. Cut off stalks and peel the tops ; broil them over a 
clear fire, turning them once. Arrange on a hot dish. Put a 
small piece of butter on each mushroom, season with pepper 
and salt; squeeze over them a little lemon juice. Place before 
the fire, and when the butter is melted, serve quickly. — Mrs. 

c. c. 

Fondle. 

2 ounces butter. 

4 ounces bread crumbs. 
8 ounces cheese. 
1 cup sweet milk. 

3 eggs. 

Cut the butter and cheese into small pieces and place them in 
a large bowl with the bread ; on this pour scalding milk, after 
which add the yolks well beaten, also a little salt. Mix well 
together, cover and place on the back of the range, stirring 
occasionally, till all is dissolved ; when add the whites beaten to 
a stiff froth. Place in a buttered pie-plate and bake in a quick 
oven for twenty minutes. Serve as soon as taken from the 
stove. Mustard is considered by some an improvement. — Mrs. 
H. H. S. 



welsh raebbit kried apples. 231 

Welsh Rakebit. 
Cut up cheese fine and place in a saucepan with a little butter, 
add one or two spoonfuls beer, aud boil till the cheese is well 
dissolved. Cut a slice of bread, pour on the cheese ; season 
with pepper, salt, and catsup. — Mrs. S. 

Rice and Egg PatjSs. 

Mix. cold rice with well-beaten eggs, season with pepper, and 
rait. 

Then cook like scrambled egg ; don't let the rice burn. 

Tongue and Prunes. 

Get a fresh beef tongue, parboil and skin it. Add one 
pound prunes, one pound raisins, one-quarter pound sugar, 
spices to the taste. 

Let it stew until perfectly well cooked. 

When nearly done, add one lemon. — Miss M. B. B. 

To Stew Dried Apples, Peaches, Quinces, or Pears. 

Take three pounds of dried fruit ; wash it in lukewarm water, 
through three or four waters, rubbing it hard. Pour on this 
five quarts boiling water ; boil at least three hours. Just be- 
fore taking from the fire, add two teacups nice brown sugar. 
Do not stir, except occasionally, to prevent sticking to the 
bottom. Try to cook the pieces of fruit separate, except the 
apples, which run through a colander and season with nutmeg. 
The other fruits need no seasoning. — Mrs. S. T. 

Fried Apples. 

Slice apples without peeling ; cut and fry some thin slices of 
breakfast bacon until thoroughly done ; remove the slices from 
the vessel, adding water to the gravy left. Put in apples and 
fry until done, sweetening to taste. — Mrs. G. B. 



232 spioed apples eggs. 

Spiced Apples. 

8 pounds apples pared. 

4 pounds sugar. 

1 quart vinegar. 

1 ounce stick cinnamon. 

^ ounce cloves. 
Boil the si.gar, vinegar, and spices together ; put in the apples 
when boiling, and let them remain until tender ; then take them 
out and put them in a jar ; boil the syrup down, and pour over 
them. 

Stewed Prunes. 

Immediately after breakfast, wash two pounds prunes in 
several waters, rubbing them in the hands. 

Put in a preserving kettle with one gallon boiling water. 
Simmer three or four hours. Add two teacups light brown 
sugar and boil till the syrup is thick. Keep closely covered 
and do not stir, so each prune may be stewed whole. Put in a 
shallow bowl and set to cool. This amount will make two 
dishes. 

Excellent side dish for winter or spring. — Mrs. S. T, 



EGGS. 

Properly cooked, eggs are very wholesome and nutritious diet. 
Always be certain, however, that they are fresh, before attempt- 
ing to make a dish of them. Some persons use Krepp's family 
egg-tester, to ascertain if an 6gg is sound. Full directions, as to 
the mode of using it, accompany the egg tester ; so it is imneces- 
sary to give them here. A simple mode of testing the sound- 
ness of an egg, is to put it in water ; and if fresh it will sink to 
the bottom. 



boiled eggs — egg cups, a breakfast dish. 233 

Boiled Eggs. 
Let the water be boiling when yon put the eggs in it, and let 
the eggs boil three minutes after putting them in. — Mrs. S. T. 

Soft-boiled Eggs. 
Put the eggs in a large tin cup or any tin vessel convenient, 
Pour boiling water over them, and let them remain near the 
fire, five minutes. Do not let them boil. Eggs cooked thus 
are slightly jellied throughout. They can be kept hot without 
becoming hard. — Mrs. S. T. 

Scrambled Eggs. 
Beat four eggs very light. Add a teacup railk, thickened 
with a teaspoonful flour. Have the pan very hot, put in a 
tablespoonful butter, pour in the eggs, and scramble quickly. — 
Mrs. E. 

Scramhled Eggs. 
Wash the pan with hot water and soap. Wipe dry. Grease 
with a little lard. Break into this the eggs, adding a lump of 
butter and a little salt. Stir till done. — Mrs. P 

Eggs for Breakfast. 
Heat in the oven a common white dish, large enough to hold 
the number of eggs to be cooked, allowing plenty of room for 
each. Melt in it a small piece of butter, break the eggs, one 
at a time, carefully in a saucer, and slip them in the hot dish. 
Sprinkle over them pepper and salt, and let them cook four or 
five minul«s. It is a great improvement to allow to every two 
eggs a tablespoonful of cream, adding it when the eggs are first 
put in. — Mrs. A. M. D. 

Egg Cups — A Breakfast Dish. 
Boil some eggs perfectly hard. Halve them, take out the 
yolks, which mix smoothly with some finely chopped or ground 
ham or fowl, salt and pepper, and a few spoonfuls melted butter 

20 



234 



OMKLETTE. 



or salad oil. Cut a piece off the bottom of each white half, to 
make them stand, and fill each with a chopped mixture. Make 
a sauce of sweet cream, boiled within an inner saucepan, and 
pour over the eggs. Decorate the edges of the dish with sprigs 
of curled parsley. — Mrs. A. M. D. 

Omelette. 
Break six eggs in a pan, beat them well together, add 
half a gill of milk, pepper and salt to stiit the taste, and a few 
sprigs of parsley chopped fine. Beat all well together. 
Have the cooking-pan hot enough to brown the butter. Put 
in half a tablespoonful of butter. Pour the mixture in the pan 
or skillet to cook. When sufficiently done, roll with a spoon 
and turn into the dish. — Miss E. P. 

Omelette. 

Boil one pint milk in a shallow vessel. 

Beat up four eggs very light ; add salt, pepper, and a little 
flour, making it of the consistency of paste. Put this into the 
boiling milk. Have a pan well buttered, into which turn the 
mixture, and set inside an oven to bake a light brown. Serve 
immediately. — Mrs. J'. J). 

Omelette. 
6 eggs beaten very light. 

2 ounces butter. 

Salt and pepper to the taste. 
Chopped parsley or celery. 
Fry a light brown in a well buttered pan. Some minced 
ham ot oysters improve the flavor. — Mrs. It. 

Omelette. 
4 eggs beaten separately. 

3 tablespoonfuls cream. 
Salt and pepper to the taste. 

—Mrs. G. W. P. 



omelb'rre souffle — gekman omelette. 235 

Omelette Souffl£. 

Six eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately and very light. 
Put on the stove a teacup milk with a piece of butter in it 
the size of a walnut. When the butter is melted, mix in one 
tablespoonful corn starch. Mix this with the yolks, add salt 
to the taste, then stir in slowly the whites. Bake in a buttered 
pudding dish, fifteen minutes, in a quick oven. — Mrs. M. E. 
L. W. 

Mock Omelette. 

Two cups bread crumbs soaked all night in one and one-half 
cup milk. Add, next morning, three eggs, whites lightly 
stirred in ; pepper, one teaspoonful salt. — Mrs. E. W. 

Ham Omelette. 
1 ounce minced ham. 
A little pepper. 
Eggs beaten very light and fried in lard. 

—Miss E. W. 

Cheese Omelette. 

3 eggs beaten to a thick froth. 

^ teacup grated cracker. 

3 tableapoonfuls grated cheese. 
Cook in a frying-pan with butter. 
Some persons add chopped thyme and parsley. — Mrs. P. 

German Omelette. 

3 eggs (yolks and whites beaten separately). 

Mix thoroughly one-half teacup milk and one teaspoonful of 
flour. Then add it to the yolks (well beaten) together with a 
little salt. Pour this mixture into a moderately hot pan, 
greased with butter. When this is nearly done (which will be 
in about five minutes), add the whites, stiffly frothed and slightly 
salted, sjjreading them over the whole surface. Run a knife care- 
fully around the edges, and turn into a heated dish when done. 



236 POACHED BGG3 — HAM AND EGGS. 

It is an improvement to mix one-third of the frothed whites 
with the yolks before pouring into the pan. — Mrs. M. C. C. 

Poached Eggs. 

Let the eggs be perfectly fresh, and the pan at least twc 
inches deep in boiling water. Break the eggs carefully, just 
over the water or in a spoon, so that they may be slipped into 
ths water with their shape preserved. Take them up in a large 
perforated spoon, cover with fresh melted butter and sprinkle 
with salt — ^never pepper, as some persons do not use it, and it 
mars the appearance of the dish. — Mrs. S. T. 

Eggs with Toast. {A Spring Dish.) 

Cut bread in squares, and toast a light brown. Poach eggs 
nicely, place each one on a piece of toast. Pour melted butter 
over them, and serve. — Mrs. S. T. 

Rumble Eggs. 

Beat up three eggs with two ounces fresh butter or well 
washed salt butter. Add a teaspoonful cream or new milk. 
Put all in a saucepan and stir over the fire five minutes. When 
it rises up, dish it immediately on toast. — Mrs. S. 

Ham and Eggs. 

Slice the ham rather thick. Fry in a hot pan. Before it 
becomes hard, take from the pan and lay in a dish over a vessel 
of hot water. 

Let the pan remain on the fire, so as to keep the ham gravy 
hot, that it may cook the eggs nicely when dropped into it. 
Break the eggs carefully, drop them in whole, and do not let 
them touch each other. Cook a light brown, not alio win/ 
the yolks to get hard. Lay an egg on each slice of meat, 
Hfrs. S. T. 



HAM A.ND EGG PUDDING- -STUFFED EGGS. 237 

Ham and Egg Pudding. {A Spring Dish.) 
6 eggs beaten very light. 
A light pint of flour. 
A pint of milk. 
A small piece of butter. 
Salt and pepper to the taste. 
Spriukle some slices of boiled ham (both fat and lean) with 
pepper, and lay them across a deep dish that has been greased. 
Then pour the pudding batter over the bacon and bake quickly. 
Mrs. V. P. M. 

Eggs a la Cr:6me. 

Six eggs boiled hard and chopped fine, and stale bread. Put 
in a dish alternate layers of chopped egg and grated bread. 
When the dish is full, pour on one pint boiling milk seasoned 
with salt, pepper, and one tablespoonful butter. Bake a light 
brown. — Miss N. 

Baked Eggs fob Dinner. 

Have ready eight or ten hard-boiled eggs, a cup of light 
grated bread crumbs, butter, pepper and salt. Place in a 
buttered pudding dish a layer of sliced eggs, dotted with bits of 
butter, and sprinkled with salt and pepper ; next a layer of 
bread crumbs, and so on to the top, being careful to let the top 
layer be of bread crumbs. — Mrs. A. M. D. 

Egg Pie. 
Take six hard-boiled eggs, slice, -season with salt, pepper, and 
butter, bake in a paste, top and bottom. 

Stuffed Eggs. 
Bo-.\ six eggs very hard. Peel them, and after having sliced 
a bit off of each end to make them stand well, cut in halves and 
extr»»Tt the yolks. Rub up the yolks with a pinch of pepper 
ftud salt, melted butter, bread crumbs, and finely chopped 
celery. Fill in the whites nicely, stand on end in the pan, laj 
bits of butter on each egg and bake. — Mrs. D. P. 



238 VEGETABLES — TO COOK ASPAKAGUS. 



VEGETABLES. 

If possible, use vegetables gathered early in the morning, -with 
the dew on them. It is even better to gather them late the 
evening before, with the evening dew on them (setting them ic 
the ice-house or some cool place), than to gather them after the 
morning sun has grown hot. If you are living in the city, get 
your vegetables from market as early in the morning as possible. 

As soon as gathered or brought from market, all vegetables 
should be carefully picked over, washed, placed in fresh water, 
and set in a cool place till the cook is ready to put them oq for 
dinner. 

Put them on in water neither cold nor boiling hot, Tho slow 
heating that takes place when you put them on in cold water 
deprives them of their flavor, to some extent, whilst too rapid 
heating toughens the vegetable fibre. 

Just before they are thoroughly done and tender, add suffi- 
cient salt to season them. Do not stir them and mutilate, them 
with a spoon, but turn them into a colander and drain. Place 
them in a hot dish and put a large tablespoonful of fresh iuutter 
over them. 

In cooking dried peas and beans, as well as corn, put up in 
brine, always soak them the overnight. These vegetables 
should first be parboiled, whether they are to be used for soup 
or for side dishes. 

To Boil Green Peas. 

Early in the morning, either buy the peas from market or 
have them gathered in your garden, while the dew is on them. 
Shell and lay in cold water till half an hour before dinner. Then 
put in boiling water and boil steadily a half hour. Add a little 
salt, just before taking from the fire. Di-ais, add a heaping 
tablespoonful fresh butter and put in a covered dish. — Mrs. S. T. 

To Cook Aspakagus. 
As soon as you get the asparagus from market or your gar- 



TO COOK ASPAEAGTTB ^TO FKY ONIONS. 239 

den, throw into salt and water, after scraping th.e outer skin 
and tying up in bunches. Put on to boil one hour before din- 
ner. After boiling thirty minutes, drain, cut in pieces half an 
inch long, and put in the saucepan with enough milk to cover 
them. Just before serving, add one tablespoonful fresh butter, 
in which one teaspoonful flour has been rubbed. Season with 
Bait and pepper. — Mrs. S. T. 

To Cook Aspa/ragus. 
Wash well, scrape, out off the tough end, tie up in bunches 
and put in boiling water with a spoonful of salt. Boil thirty 
minutes or till tender. Lay it on slices of toast in a dish, pour 
melted butter over it, and serve hot. — Mrs. P. W. 

To Boil Beets. 
Wash them. Do not break or cut the roots. Leave an inch 
of the tops, so that the color and juice cannot escape. Boil hard 
for two hours. When tender, slice them, sprinkling over them 
sugar, then butter and salt to the taste. Sugar is the greatest 
improvement. — Mrs. S. T. 

To Bake Onions. 
Boil six onions in water, or milk and water with a seasoning 
of pepper and salt. When done enough to mash, take them 
off, mash them with butter, grate bread crumbs over them and 
set them to bake. Or place them whole in the baking dish 
with butter and bread crumbs. 

To Cook Onions. 
Boil till tender, in milk and water. Pour melted butter 
over them, and serve ; or chop up and stew with a little milk, 
butter, and salt. 

To Fry Onions. 

Wash and slice them. Chop fine, put in a frying-pan and 
cover with water. Simmer till the water is dried up, then fry 



240 TO DRESS RAW ONIONS TO STEW CYMLINGS. 

brown, with a large slice of fat pork. Add pepper and salt.— 
Mrs.S. T. 

To Dress Raw Onions. 

Slice and chop fine, and put in weak salt and water till just 
before dinner. Then drain off and dress with half a teacup 
vinegar, two tablespoonfuls pepper vinegar, two tablespoon fuls 
made mustard, two tablespoonfuls white sugar, one tablespoon- 
ful salt. 

Lay a large lump of ice on top, and garnish with curled par- 
sley ; which, eaten after onions, is said to remove the scent from 
the breath.— Jl/r«. S. T. 

Radishes. 

As soon as taken from the ground, put in cold water. Tlien 
put red and white radishes alternately in a dish of fanciful de- 
sign, ornamenting with curled parsley, in the centre and around 
the edges. — Mrs. S. T. 

Celeey. 

Wash carefully and put in cold water to keep crisp till din- 
ner. Remove all the green, as nothing is so ornamental as the 
pure white leaves of bleached celery. If the ends of the stalks 
have been broken, split and curl them. — Mrs. S. T. 

To Boil Snaps. 
Early in the morning, string round, tender snaps. Throw 
into water and set in a cool place, till an hour before dinner, 
when they must be drained and thi-own into a pot where the 
bacon is boiling. — Mrs. S. T. 

To Boil Snaps Without Bacon. 
Prep are as above directed. Boil an hour in hot water, adding 
ft little salt, just before they are done. Drain and serve with 
pepper, fresh butter and a little cream. — Mrs. S. T. 

To Stew Cymlings (or Squash, as it is sometimes coiled). 
Peel and boil till tender. Run through a colander. To a pint 



TO FEY CYMLING8 — TO BOIL GEEEN COEN. 241 

of pulp, add one half pint rich milk, a heaping tablespoonful 
fresh butter and a little salt. Stew till thick like marmalade. 
Pepper freely, pour over it, if convenient, half teacup cream, 
and serve. — Mra. S. T. 

To Fry Cymlings. 
Steam or boil the cymlings (unpeeled), till tender. When 
cool, slice and butter them, sprinkle pepper and salt and pour 
over them a spoonful of eggs, lightly . beaten. Sift over it 
cracker, pounded fine, and fry a light yellow brown. Take from 
the frying pan, prepare the other side the same way. Return 
to the pan and fry it a pale brown. — Mrs. S. T. 

Cymlings Fkied with Bacon. 
Fry some slices of fat bacon in a pan. Remove the bacon 
when done and keep hot. Fry in the gravy some cymlings that 
have been boiled tender and cut in slices. "While frying, mash 
fine with a large spoon, and add pepper and salt. Fry brown, 
and serve with the bacon, if you like. — Mrs. G. B. 

Cymling Fritteus. 

After boiling and running through a colander, mix with an 
egg, season with salt, pepper, and butter, make into cakes and 
fry a light brown. 

Cymling Pudding. 

Boil young cymlings, mash and run through a colander. Add 
one teacup of milk, three eggs, a large lump of butter, pepper 
and salt. 

Put in a buttered deep dish, and bake a light brown. For 
a change, you might line the dish with thin slices of buttered 
bread, pour in the cymling batter and put some pieces of butter 
and grated cracker on top. — Mrs. M. C. G. 

To Boil Green Corn. 
Strip off the outer shucks, leaving only the thin white ones. 
Cut off the ends. Throw into boiling water. Boil an hour. 

'21 



242 CORN PUDDING COEN FEITTKBS. 

Strip oflF tlie silk with the shuck. Cut from the cob while hot. 
Sprinkle over salt, add a tablespoonful fresh butter and serve 
hot.— ifrs. S. T. 

Corn Pudding. 

1 pint milk. 

3 eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately. 

3 tablespoonfuls melted butter. 

1 dessertspoonful white sugar. 

1 heaping teafipoonful cornstarch or flour. 

1 teaspoonful salt. 

6 ears of corn. 
With a sharp knife, slit each row of corn in the centre. 
Then shave in thinnest slices. Add the corn to the yolks of the 
eggs, next the butter, cornstarch, sugar, and salt, then the milk, 
gradually, and last of all the whites. Bake in a hot oven. As 
soon as a light brown on top, cover with a buttered paper. 
Grate cracker or bread crumbs over it and serve. — Mrs. S. T. 

Corn Pudding. 
One dozen large ears corn. Cut off the top of the grain, scrape 
with a knife, so as to get the heart of the grain without the 
husk. Season with a teacup of cream, a large tablesi)Oonful but- 
ter, salt and pepper to the taste. Bake in a dish. — Mrs. Dr. E. 

Corn Fritters. 

3 dozen ears corn. 

6 eggs, beaten well. 

3 tablespoonfuls flour 

Salt to the taste. 
Grate the com, add to it the flour, and gradually mix with 
the eggs. Beat all hard together. Drop in oval shiipes, three 
inches long, into a pan, in which fry them brown, in equal 
parts of lard and butter. A batter cake-turner is convenient 
for turning them. — Mrs. Dr. J". 



COEN FBITTEES BAKED TOMATOES. 243 

Com Fritters. 
8 large ears of corn, cut three times (not grated). 
2 eggs. 

1 teacup sweet milk (or more, if the corn is not juicy). 

2 teaspoonfuls flour. 
Salt and pepper to taste. 

Make the mixture the consistency of a soft batter, and fry in 
lard or butter. — Mrs, A. W. 

Corn Fkittees tor Breakfast. 
Make a batter as you would for fritters, put in pepper, salt, 
lard, or butter, add to a quart of batter, a pint of com, cut from 
the cob, and fry. — Mrs. A. P. 

Baked Tomatoes. 

1 quart peeled and sliced tomatoes (not scalded). 

1 cup sugar. 

1 tablespoonful butter. 

1 dessertspoonful salt. 

1 teaspoonful black pepper. 

1 roll of bread. 
Spread a layer of tomatoes on the bottom of an earthen 
(never a tin) baking dish. Put over it half the sugar, butter, 
pepper and salt, and crumble half the roll over it in small 
bits. TTien spread another layer of tomato, sugar, etc., ending 
with the remaining half of the roll. Grate cracker or hard 
brown biscuit on top, and serve. — Mrs. iS. T. 

£aked Tomatoes. 
Scald and peel the tomatoes, or else peel thin with a sharp 
knife, without scalding. Cut in small pieces, season with a 
little sugar, salt, pepper, and finely minced onion. Grease a 
baking dish and line it with thin slices of light bread buttered. 
Pour the tomatoes in the dish, crumming up a little light bread 



2-14 STEWED TOMATOES — EOPA VIGA. 

on them. Spread on top a layer of heavily buttered light 
bread, and bake. — Mrs. M. G. C. 

Stewed Tomatoes. 

Peel and chop tomatoes till you have a quart. Add one tea- 
cup brown sugar, one teacup butter, one teacup bread crumbs. 
One tablespoonful salt ; one teaspoonful black pepper. 

Stew till free from lumps and perfectly done. Pour in a 
deep dish, sift powdered crackers over it, and serve. — Mrs. S. T. 

Stewed Tomatoes. 
Scald and peel the tomatoes, chop fine, season with salt, 
pepper, onion, and a little sugar. Put in some piece.s of but- 
tered light bi-ead, cut up very fine. Add a lump of butter, and 
stew in a saucepan. — Mrs. V. P. M. 

Tomato Omelette. 
Peel and chop fine one quart of tomatoes, add salt and 
pei)per, a little onion minced fine, a half teacup grated bread. 
Beat five eggs to a foam, stir into the tomatoes and turn the 
mixture into a hot pan, greased with butter, stir rapidly till it 
begins to thicken. Let it brown a few minutes on the bottom, 
then fold it half over and serve hot. This dish may be made of 
canned tomatoes, when fresh cannot be obtained. — Mrs. I. G. 

Fried Tomatoes. 
Slice tomatoes one-quarter inch thick. Put them in a skillet 
in which a spoonful of nice lard has been melted. After get- 
ting hot, the skins of the tomatoes may be removed: Sprinkle 
with salt and pepper, take the tomatoes out, thieken the gra^y 
with a teacup cream in which a teaspoonful flour has been 
stirred. Put the tomatoes in a dish and pour the gravy over 
them. Serve hot.— Mrs. G. L. T. 

ROPA ViGA. 

Select fine ripe tomatoes. Pour boiling water over them so 



TOMATO TOAST LIMA BEANS. 246 

as to remove the skins readily. Put them in a pan of melted 
butter, with some pepper and salt. Shred cold meat or fowl 
over them. Fry sufficiently, and serve hot. — 3frs. A. J). 

Tomato Toast. 

Put some canned tomatoes in a frying pan with a little 
butter and salt. Cook lightly and pour over slices of toasted 
bread, buttered and softened with cream. — Mrs. Dr. Gr. 

To DRESS Raw Tomatoes. 

Slice a plateful large fresh tomatoes. Pour over them a 
dressing made of the yolk of one egg and olive oil, creamed 
smoothly together ; salt and pepper to the taste ; one teaspoon- 
ful prepared mustard, a little vinegar. If you like, you may 
add sugar. — Mrs. M. L. 0. 

To dress Ram Tomatoes. 

Peel and cut in thick slices six large ripe tomatoes which 
have been kept on ice. Put a layer into a salad bowl, sprinkle 
with salt, pepper, and powdered sugar. Put in another layer, 
and so on, till all the tomatoes are disposed of Pour over the 
top a teacup of weak vinegar. Cover the top with ice, and set 
in the refrigerator ten minutes before serving. — Mrs. S. T. 

Lima Beans. 

Shell and throw into cold water. Put in boiling water an 
hour before dinner ; add some salt ; when tender, drain off the 
water and add a tablespoonful fresh butter. Beans are seldom 
cooked enough. — Mrs. S. T. 

lAnna Seams. 

Shell and lay in cold water. Boil thoroughly, and then stew 
a little with butter, pepper, salt, and cream. — Mrs. R. 



246 8ucoota8h to boil leish potatoes. 

Succotash. 
1 pint shelled Lima beans. 
1 quart green corn, cut from the cob. 
1 quart tomatoes, prepared and seasoned as for baking. 
Boil the com and beans together till done, then drain off the 
water and pour in a cup of milk, a tablespoonful of butter, and 
Bait to the taste. Let it boil up, and then pour in the tomatoes. 
Let all simmer an hour. Baked or stewed dishes should have 
cracker or brown biscuit grated on top, before sending to the 
table.— Jfrs. S. T. 

To Fry Cucumbers. 

Peel, cut lengthwise in thick slices and lay in water till just 

before dinner. Wipe dry, sprinkle with pepper and salt, dip 

in beaten egg, sift over pounded cracker and fry with the cover 

on till light brown. Prepare exactly as egg-plant. — Mrs. S. T. 

To Dress Cucumbers Kaw. 
Gather early in the morning, peel, lay in cold water till just 
before dinner. Then drain, slice as thin as possible into ice 
water, which drain and then fill a dish with alternate layers of 
sliced cucumber and thialy sliced white onion, sprinkled with 
salt and pepper. Pour a cup of weak vinegar over it and lay 
a lump of ice on top. — Mrs. S. T. 

Okra. 

Boil young okra till tender, in salt and water. Drain, add 
half a teacup of cream, and a heaping tablespoonful butter. Let 
it boil up, turn it out in a dish, sprinkle salt and pepper over 
it and serve hot. 

To Boil Irish Potatoes. 

Old potatoes must be nicely peeled and dropped in boiling 
water, covered with a lid and boiled hard half an hour. Then 
drain off the water and set by the fire. This makes them 
mealy. — Mrs. 8, T. 



creamed potatoes potato hash. 247 

Creamed Potatoes. 
Peel and boil -white mealy potatoes, tUl perfectly done. Take 
out one at a time from the saucepan, which must be left on the 
fire. With a large spoon, mash perfectly fine ; add salt, a 
heaping tablespoonful butter and a teacup rich milk. Stir 
rapidly ten or fifteen minutes and send hot to the table. It ia 
much lighter when well creamed and beaten. — Mrs. 8, T. 

Potato Snow. 
Peel and boil in a saucepan, six large mealy white potatoes. 
Add a little salt to the water. Take them out one by one, 
leaving the saucepan on the fire. Rub through a sieve into a 
deep dish, letting it fall in a mound. Do not touch with a 
spoon or the hand. Have a sauce-boat of melted butter to 
serve with it at table. — Mrs. S. T. 

Irish Potato Chips. 
Shave the raw potatoes with a cabbage cutter. Drop the 
pieces, one at a time, into boiling lard, and fry a rich brown. 
Sprinkle a little salt over them. — Mrs. It. L. 0. 

To Fry Sliced Potatoes. 
Peel and slice thin. Dry well in a cloth. Fry in lard, stir- 
ring till crisp. Take up and lay on a sieve to drain. Sprinkle 
a little salt over them. — Mrs. JR. 

Potato CakiSs. 

Mash potatoes, just boiled. Add salt, pepper, butter, and 

cream, make into cakes, and fry brown on both sides. — Mrs. P. 

W. 

Potato Pudding. 

May be made by putting potatoes prepared exactly as above 
directed, in a pudding dish, and baking. — Mrs. S. T. 

Potato Hash. 
Cut cold boiled potatoes in slices. Put in a pan with boiling 



248 TO BOIL SWEET POTATOES — ^TO STEW EGG-PLANTS, 

water, adding pepper, salt, and butter. Stew till thick, and 
serve. — Mrs. Dr. G. 

To Boil Sweet Potatoes. 
Boil large, sniooth. potatoes till quite done. Pee) and slice 
lengthwise. Pour melted butter over them. Some persons like 
a dressing of pepper, salt, butter, and cream. Others jjrefer 
butter, sifted sugar, and grated nutmeg. 

To Fky Sweet Potatoes. 
Parboil and cut in thick slices, sprinkling over them pepper, 
salt, and sugar. Fry with a slice of fat pork. Take from the 
pan, sift over them pounded cracker, and serve. — Mrs. S. T. 

To Cook Inferior Sweet Potatoes. 
Boil till nearly done. Cut in thick slices ; put a layer in the 
bottom of a baking dish. Put pepper, salt, sxigar, bits of but- 
ter, and a teaspoonful vinegar on this layer, and so on till the 
dish is filled, leaving a layer of seasoning for the top. Pour 
over it a teacup rich milk. Put a tin plate on top and bake a 
few minutes. Put grated cracker, on top. — Mrs. S. T. 

To Dress Yams. 
Steam them till done, peel and slice them. Put in a buttered 
baking-dish a layer of yam, on which put sugar and some Ivimps 
of butter. Fill up the dish in this way, and when full, pour 
over it milk or cream, and bake brown. — Mrs. Dr. P. G. 

To Stew Egg-plants. 

Put them on whole in a plenty of water, and let them simmer 
till tender. Then take off the skin and divide them. Mash 
them well in a deep dish, adding a large spoonful butter and 
some grated bread crumbs. Grate bread crumbs on top, and 
brown it. 

Purpl( egg-plants are best. — Mrs. M. 



TO FEY EGG-PLANT TO FKY PAESNIP8. 249 

To Fry Egg-plant. 
Cut the egg-plant in thick slices, carefully paring each piece. 
Throw it in salt and water, and let it remain there several 
hours. Take from the water, drain and wipe. Then butter 
the slices of egg-plant, dip in beaten egg, then in grated cracker, 
and fry a light brown. Pepper, grate more cracker over them, 
and serve. — Mrs. S. T. 

Egg-plant Pudding. 

Quarter the egg-plant and lay it in salt and water the over- 
night, to extract the bitterness. The next day, parboil, peel 
and chop fine, and add bread crumbs (one teacup to a pint of 
egg-plant), eggs (two to a pint of egg-plant), salt, pepper, and 
butter to taste ; enough milk to make a good batter. 

Bake in an earthen dish twenty minutes. — Mrs. R. Ii. 0. 

To Bake Egg-plant. 
Parboil the egg-plant. Take out the meat and mix it with 
butter, pepper, salt, and bread crumbs. Fill the hulla with this 
mixture and bake a dark brown. Cucumbers may be prepared 
by the same recipe. 

Burr Artichokes. 
Strip off the coarse outer leaves, cut the stalk, and lay several 
hours in cold water. Then put in boiling water, with their 
leaves downward. Keep covered with a plate. Boil steadily 
two or three hours. Serve with butter, pepper, salt, mustard, 
and vinegar. — Mrs. M. 

To Stew Parsnips. 
Peel and slice parsnips. Boil them in a covered vessel with 
slices of nice pork, until done, adding salt and pepper to taste. 
—Mrs. G.B. 

To Fry Parsnips. 

Peel and parboil the parsnips. Slice lengthwise, and fry with 
fat pork, sprinkling over them salt, pepper, and sugai . Grate 



250 TO COOK PAESNIPS TO FET SALBIFi'. 

bread crumbs over it and serve. Salsify may be cooked the 
same way. — Mrg. S. T. 

To Cook Parsnips. 
Boil the parsnips till thoroughly done. Serve with salt, pep- 
per, butter, and cream ; or mash the parsnips, mix with an egg 
batter, and season as before. 

To Cook Salsify. 
Wash, trim, scrape the roots and cut them up fine. BoU till 
tender, mash and season with pepper, salt, bread crumbs, but- 
ter, and milk. Put in a dish and bake brown. — Mrs. A. P. 

To Stew Salsify. 
Scrape and throw at once in water to prevent from turning 
dark. Boil till tender in a closely covered vessel. Drain off 
the water and cut the salsify in pieces half an inch long. 
Throw in a saucepan with 

1 teacup vinegar. 
1 teacup water. 
1 tablespoonful sugar. 
1 tablespoonful butter. 
Salt and pepper to taste. 
Just before serving, add the yolk of an egg, beaten up and 
mixed with a little water. The seasoning above given is for 
one quart salsify. — Mrs. S, T. 

Another "Way to /Stew Salsify. 
Prepare the salsify exactly as in the foregoing recipe. Boil 
till tender, drain and cut in pieces, half an inch long, and then 
stew in milk. Just before serving, add a tablespoonful of but- 
ter, rolled in a teaspoonful flour. Let it boil up once. Pepper 
and salt it, grate cracker over it and serve. — Mrs. S. T. 

^ To Fry Salsify. 

Prepare as for stewing. When perfectly tender, run through 
a colander. Add grated cracker, two eggs, well beaten, one 



TO BOIL OABBAGE WITH BAOON — WARM SLAW. 251 

tablespoonful vinegar, one tablespoonful butter, one teaspoon- 
ful salt, one teaspoonful sugar, a little pepper. Make into oval 
cakes, roll in grated cracker, and fry a light brown. — Mrs. S. T. 

To Boil Cabbage with Bacon. 
Quarter a bead of hard white cabbage, examine for insects, 
lay in salt and water several hours. An hour before dinner, 
drain and put in a pot in which bacon has been boiling — a pod 
of red pepper boiled with it will make it more wholesome and 
improve the flavor of both bacon and cabbage. — Mrs. S. T. 

Cabbage Boiled without Bacon. 

Prepare exactly as directed in the foregoing recipe. 

Boil an hour in a large pot of boiling water. Drain, chop 
fine, add a tablespoonful butter, the same of cream, the same of 
pepper-vinegar, and salt and pepper to your taste. — Mrs. S. T. 

Cabbage Pudding. 

Boil nice, hard, white cabbage with good bacon. 

When thoroughly done, chop fine and add a large lump ol 
butter, one teacup rich milk, three eggs beaten light, two tea- 
spoonfuls mixed mustard ; pepper and salt to the taste. 

Pour in a buttered deep dish ; put on top dusted pepper, 
bits of fresh butter, and grated cracker or stale bread. 

Bake a light brown. — Mrs. M. C. G. 

Oaibhage Pvdding. 

Boil the cabbage till tender, chop fine and add four eggs, well 

beaten, one pound bread crumbs, one teacup melted butter, 

mUk enough to make it as thick as mush, salt and pepper to the 

taste. Bake in a dish till the eggs and milk are cooked. — Mrs, 

McD. 

"Warm Slaw. 

Cut the cabbage very fine and sprinkle over it a tablespoon- 
fiil flour. Put a piece of butter, the size of an egg, in the oven 



252 WARM SLAW — SPINACH. 

to melt. Salt and pepper the cabbage and put it in the ovon 
with the butter. Mix half a teacup of cream with the same 
quantity of vinegar, pour it over the cabbage and heat thorough- 
ly.— ilfrs. S. G. 

Warm Slaw. 
Cut the cabbage (hard red is best) as for cold slaw. Put in 
a saucepan one-quarter pound butter, two gills water, three 
gills vinegar, one teaspoonful salt, and a little cayenne pepper. If 
you like, add a garlic, minced fine. When this mixture has 
come to a boil, pour it boiling hot over the cabbage, and cover it 
five or ten minutes, when it will be ready for use. 

Warm Slaw. 

Wash the cabbage, cat fine and put on the fire with enough 
water to keep it from burning. 

When sufficiently tender, have ready a dressing made of vine- 
gar, pepper, salt, mustard, a spoonful of butter rolled in flour, 
and beaten eggs, all thoroughly mixed. Stir this quickly in the 
cabbage and let it boil up. — Mrs. Gol. W. 

Fried Cabbage. 
Reserve some cabbage from dinner. Set it away till next 
morning. Chop fine, season with pepper and salt, and fry brown 
with a slice of fat bacon. 

Cauliflower. 
Remove the outside leaves. Cut in four parts, tie them to- 
gether, put in boiling water and let them simmer till the stalk 
is thoroughly tender, keeping it covered with water, and remov- 
ing the scum. Boil two hours, drain well and serve with melt- 
ed butter. You may cook broccoli by the same recipe, except 
that you cut it in two pieces instead of four. — Mrs. R. 

Spinach. 
Pick and soak several hours in cold water. Drain and shake 



TUENIP SALAD EESIPEE FOK CUKIN KON-FEEL PEES. 253 

each bunch. Throw in boiling water and boil till tender. Take 
up with a perforated skimmer. Put in a saucepan with a heap- 
ing tablespoonful butter ; pepper and salt to taste. Stir in three 
hard-boiled eggs, chopped up. Let it simmer, stirring frequent- 
ly. Put in a deep dish and cover with nicely poached eggs, 
buttered, peppered, and salted. Sea-kale may be prepared by 
the same recipe. — Mrs. S. T. 

Turnip Salad. 
Pick early in the morning. Wash one peck and put in cold 
water. Have ready a pot of boiling water in which a piece of 
bacon has boiled several hours, and the amount of water become 
much reduced. Take out the bacon, put in the salad, put the 
bacon back on top of the salad, and boil till very tender. Dip 
from the pot with a perforated skimmer, lay in a deep dish, 
skim the fat from the liquor and pour over the salad. Cover 
with nicely poached eggs. Cover and send to the table hot. 
Any other kind of salad might be cooked by this recipe. — 
Mrs. S. T. 

Turnips. 

Boil and mash through a colander. Season with a cup cream, 
spoonful butter, pepper, and salt, and stew quite dry. Then 
you may bake them. — Mrs. Col. W. 

To Stew Turnips. 
Peel five or six turnips and put on to boil, adding a little 
salt to the water. When thoroughly done, mash fine through a 
colander, season with a teacup of cream, or milk, a tablespoonful 
butter, red and black pepper, and a little more salt, if needed. 
Stew two or three minutes. Cabbage prepared the same way is 
very nice. — Mrs. O. M. A. 

ReSIPEE for CUKIN KON-FEEL PeES. 

G-ether your pees 'bout sun-down. The folrin day, 'bo'jt 
leven o'clock, gowge out your pees with your thum nale, like 



254 OOElTFrELD OK BLACK. ETTE PEA.8 — COEN PUT IN BEraB. 

gowgin out a man's eye-ball at a kote house. Eense your pees, 
parbile them, then fry 'em with som several slices uv streekl 
middlin, incouragin uv the gravy to seep out and intermarry 
with your pees. When modritly brown, but not scorcht, empty 
intoo a dish. Mash 'em gently with a spune, mix with raw 
tomarters sprinkled with a little brown shugar and the immortal 
dish ar quite ready. Eat a hepe. Eat mo and mo. It is good 
for your genral helth uv mind and body. It fattens you up, 
makes you sassy, goes throo and throo your very soul. But 
why don't you eat ? Eat on. By Jiugs. Eat. Stop I Never, 
while thar is a pee in the dish. — Mozi« Addwms. 

CoHNFiELD OR Black Eye Peas. 

Shell early in the morning, throw into water till an hour 
before dinner, when put into boiling water, covering close while 
cooking. Add a little salt, just before taking from the fire. 
Drain and serve with a large spoonful fresh butter, or put in a 
pan with a slice of fat meat, and simmer a few minutes. Dried 
peas must be soaked overnight, and cooked twice as long as 
fresh.— Jlfrs. S. T. 

To Boil Dried Peas. 

Soak in boiling water the night before. Then next day par- 
boil and drain. Put in fresh water with a piece of middling or 
ham, and boil till tender. — Mrs. Gol. TV. 

To Boil Dried Lima, or other Beans. 
Soak overnight. Next morning, soak in fresh water till two 
hoxirs before dinner, when boil steadily in a covered saucepan 
two hours. Drain and add a large spoonful fresh butter, and a 
little salt.— Jfrs. S. T. 

Corn Put up in Brine. 
Late as possible in the fall prepare tender roasting cars for 
winter use. Strip off the outer shuck, leaving the inner, silky 
ones next to the grain. Have ready a nice clean wooden firkin 



PICKLKS AND CATSUPS. 265 

or tub, properly scalded and sunned. Sprinkle salt over the 
bottom. Pack closely with com. Wash a large flat roclc and 
lay on the top, when nearly full. Pour strong brine over the 
corn, covering it well. The day before using, strip off the 
shuck and silk, place in a bucket of cold water ^^renewing the 
water once, or twice), and let it stand till ready to use it. Twi 
ears soaked thus, and shaved into a pot of soup with other veg 
etables, will impart a delicious flavor. — Mrs. S. T. 



PICKLES AND CATSUPS. 

For pickles and catsups, use the best cider vinegar, it being 
not only more wholesome than other kinds of vinegar, but 
the only sort that will keep pickles or catsup for any length of 
time. 

In making catsup, or in scalding pickles in vinegar, if a brass 
kettle is used, it must be scoured with sand and ashes, washed 
and wiped dry, and then scoured with vinegar and salt. By 
-ttendingto these directions, the brass kettle maybe safely used 
—though the pickles or catsup must be poured from it the 
instant it is taken from the fire, or they will canker. 

In making pickles, it is a good rule to allow two pounds of 
sugar to each gallon of vinegar for sour pinkie, though a larger 
proportion must be allowed for sweet pickle. 

Vinegar for pickling should be spiced and set to sun from 
spring to autumn. Never put pickle in a jar that has been 
used for butter or lard. Examine often to see if the pickle is 
well covered with vinegar, and if any of it has turned soft, 
remove it. Keep it in a dry, airy closet, and be careful not to 
let it freeze. Pickle is generally considered best when from six 
months to a year old. Some housekeepers use the same vine- 
gar (with a slight addition) from year to year, by draining the 
pickle as they take it out of the jar. 



356 piokle vinegar — vinegae foe pickles. 

Pickle Vinegar. 
2 gallons cider vinegar. 
4 ounces white pepper, beaten. 
4 ounces whole allspice. 

4 ounces mustard-seed. 

2 ounces ground mustard. 
2 ounces of mace. 
2 ounces of turmeric. 
2 ounces of white ginger. 
2 ounces of garlic. 
2 ounces of horseradish. 
2 gills of celery-seed. 
2 sliced lemons. 

5 pounds of sugar. 

This ought to be prepared several months before using, and 
always kept on hand ready for use. — Mrs. S. T. 

Pickle Vinegar. 

2 gallons vinegar. 

1 pint black mustard-seed. 
4 ounces ginger. 

3 ounces allspice. 
1 ounce cloves. 

4 ounces whole black pepper. 

1 ounce celery-seed. 

3 pounds brown sugar. 

2 handfuls scraped horseradish. 
1 handful garlic. 

3 sliced lemons. 

Make in May, and sun all summer. — Jifrs. D. li, 

ViNEGAE FOR PiCKLES. 

2 gallons vinegar. 

1 cup bruised ginger. 

1 cup black mustard-seed. 



YELLOW PICKLE VINEGAE, 251 

1 cup garlic. 

■J- cup black pepper. 

1 cup celery-seed. 
•J- cup of mace. 

^ cup of cloves. 
■J- cup of turmeric. 

2 pounds brown sugar, 
1 pod red pepper. 

1 handful horseradish. — Mrs. P. W. 

Cucumbers (sliced), snaps, gherkins, muskmelons, cabbage, 
onions, or anything to be put into the spiced vinegar, must be 
previously boiled tender in strong vinegar and salt — well 
pressed out — and then put into the pickle vinegar, will soon be 
ready for use. — Mrs. J". J'. C. 

Yellow Pickle Vinegar. 

2 gallons of pure cider vinegar. 
1 pint black mustard-seed. 

1 pint white mustard-seed. 

2 ounces ground mustard. 

4 ounces white ginger. 

3 ounces pepper. 
3 ounces allspice. 
1 ounce mace. 

1 ounce cloves. 

2 ounces turmeric. 

1 large handful horseradish. 
1 handful garlic. 
1 spoonful salt. 
1 gill celery-seed. 
6 lemons. 

5 pounds sugar. 

The liquid should be mixed in the spring, and set in the sun 

—Mrs. T. M. 0. 

22 



258 ingeedients to one gallon geeen piokle. 

Ingredients to One Gallon Green Pickle. 

3 pounds of sugar. 

^ ounce oi' mace, full weight, and beaten. 

•^ ounce of black pepper, full weight, and beaten. 

1 ounce ginger, light weight, and beaten. 

■^ ounce allspice, light weight. 

■J- ounce cloves, light weight. 

^ tablespoonful salt, light weight. 

^ ounce celery-seed, light weight. 

2-J- ounces cinnamon, beaten. — Mrs. Dr. P. 0. 

Preparing Pickles. 

Vegetables for pickle should be kept in cold and strong brine 
till they turn yellow : then put vine-leaves in the bottom of the 
kettle, then a layer of vegetables and a layer of leaves till full. 
Pour on them, boiling salt and water and let them boil until 
a bright green. Take them, while hot, and place in weak vine- 
gar for a whole week. Then add them to the spiced vinegar. 
Afterwards rub on them a little turmeric. Prepare the spiced 
vinegar in May, and expose to the sun every day for some time. 
— Mrs. M. 

Yellow Pickle. 

2 gallons vinegar. 

2 pounds sugar. 
1 ounce turmeri 

3 ounces allspice 
1 ounce cloves. 

1 ounce mace. 

1 pint mustard-seed. 

2 tablespoonfuls celery-seed. 

Pound all together and stir into the hot cider vinegar for 
several minutes. Prepare your vegetables by quartering the 
cabbage and scalding them in brine ; cover them and leave until 



YELLOW PICKLE. 259 

cold ; squeeze dry and hang in the sun ; when bleached, throw 
in plain vinegar, then into the spiced vinegar. — Mrs. P. 

Yellow PicMe. 
2\ gallons vinegar. 
7 pounds sugar. 
1 pound white mustard-seed. 
1 bottle mustard. 

1 pound white ginger. 
\ pound white pepper. 
•^ pound turmeric. 

2 ounces nutmeg. 
2 ounces allspice. 
2 ounces cloves. 

2 ounces celery-seed. 

Pound them all before p\itting in the vinegar, add one pound 
scraped horseradish, half-dozen lemons sliced. 

Scald two dozen onions, sprinkle them with salt, and let them 
stand a day ; drain off the water and wash well with the vine- 
gar. Add them to your spiced vinegar. Cut your cabbage 
and scald them in strong salt water till you can run a straw 
through them ; drain them for a day and put into plain vine- 
gar for two weeks ; let them drain again a day or two before 
putting into the prepared vinegar. Put two tablespoonfuls 
turmeric in the plain vinegar to turn the cabbage yellow. — Mrs. 

J. T.A. 

Yellow PvMe. 

One peck cabbage cut up. Lay in a jar, sprinkling with 
salt; leave it twenty-four hours; squeeze out and put in a 
kettle with ualf a dozen onions chopped, cover with vinegar, 
add one ounce turmeric, and boil one hour. Then add : 

2 pounds brown sugar. 

\ ounce mace. 

\ ounce allspice. 

■J- ounce cloves. 



260 YELLOW PIOKLE ^YELLOW PIOKLBD CABBAGE. 

4 tablespoonfuls mixed mustard. 

1 teacup black peppercorn. 

4 tablespoonfuls ground ginger. 

2 tablespoonfuls celery-seed. 
Boil till clear.— ilfrs. S. B. 

Yellow JPicMe, 
2 gallons cider vinegar. 
4 ounces beaten white pepper. 
4 ounces whole allspice. 
4 ounces white mustard-seed. 
4 ounces black mustard-seed. 
2 ounces mace. 
2 ounces turmeric. 
2 ounces white ginger. 

2 ounces ground mustard. 

3 ounces garlic. 

3 ounces horseradish. 
2 gills celery-seed. 

4 sliced lemons. 

5 pounds brown sugar. 

Should be prepared months before using. Cabbage to be 
pickled should be boiled or scalded in salt and water until the 
leaves can be turned back so as to sprinkle salt between them ; 
then must be dried in the sun. Shake all the salt out when 
dry, and soak in plain vinegar, with a little turmeric sprinkled 
on each layer of cabbage. After ten days, drain them and put 
in the spiced vinegar. — Mrs. S. T. 

Yellow Pickled Cabbage, 
1 ounce turmeric. 
1 gill black pepper. 
1 gill celery-seed. 
A. few cloves. 
A few pieces of ginger. 



A QUICK WAT TO MAKE YELLOW PJtCKLE. 261 

4 tablespoonfuls made mustard. 
■J- ounce mace. 
2 pounds sugar. 

1 tablespoonful allspice. 

Take one peck of quartered cabbage ; slice them and put a 
layer of cabbage and one of salt ; let it remain over night. In 
the morning squeeze them and put on the fire with iowi chopped 
onions, and cover with viuegar ; boil for an hour, then add the 
spices mentioned above, and let it boil an hour longer ; when 
cold it is ready for use. — 3frs. TFi JET. M. 

A QUICK WAY TO MAKE YeLLOW PiCKLE. 

Two gallons chopped cabbage, spriakle one handful salt 
through it, and let stand over night. Squeeze it out dry and 
put into a kettle. Add one ounce of celery-seed, one ounce 
of turmeric, one quarter-pound of mustard-seed, (black and 
white mixed), five pounds brown sugar, with vinegar enough to 
cover the whole well. 

Boil until the cabbage is tender. Put it in stone jars and 
keep it closely covered. It is fit for use the day after it is 
made. — Mrs. J. C. W. 

Yellow Pickle. 

2 ounces black mustard-seed. 
2 ounces white mustard-seed. 
2 ounces celery-seed. 

1 ounce coriander. 
1 ounce white pepper. 

1 ounce green ginger. 

2 ounces turmeric. 

1 pound brown sugar. 

Put these in one and one-half gallons best cider vinegar, and 

set in the sun. This can be prepared during the winter, if you 

choose. Quarter your cabbages (small heads about the size of 

a large apple are best), and put in a tub. Make a strong brine, 



262 CABBAGE PICKLE FOR PRESENT USE. 

boil and pour over while hot. Let them stand twenty-four hours 
and then repeat. On the third day spread them on a board 
or table, salt them slightly, and let them stand in the hot sun four 
days, taking care that no dew shall fall on them. Put iu ajar, 
and pour on your prepared vinegar boiling hot. This pickle 
will not be ready for the table till it has softened and absorbed 
the vinegar. You can judge of this by your taste. To make 
quick pickle by this recipe, you simply salt your cabbage for 
one night, pouring off in the morning the water drawn out by 
the salt. Then put in the kettle with the spices and vinegar, 
and boil until a straw will go through. — Mrs. J". B. D. 

Cabbage Pickle for Pkesent Use. 
Boil the cabbage in salt and water till tender ; lay them on 
dishes, drain or press them in a towel. 

Boil together two gallons strong vinegar. 

1 pint white mustard-seed. 

4 ounces ginger. 

3 ounces black pepper. 

3 ounces allspice. 

1 ounce mace. 

1 ounce cloves. 

1 otince turmeric. 

1 large handful horseradish. 

1 large handful garlic. 

1 ounce celery-seed. 

2 pounds brown sugai'. 

Pour it over the cabbage boiling hot. If you have no garlic, 
use one pint onions chopped fine. — Mrs. S. 

Cut Cabbage Pickle. 
Fill the jar with cut cabbage. To every gallon of cabbage put 
one handful horseradish. 

3 tablespoonfuls black pepper. 
J- tablespoonful red pepper. 



CHOPPED CABBAGE PICKLE. 5^63 

3 tablespoonfuls coriander-seed. 

3 tablespoonfuls celery-seed. 
2 tablespoonfuls mace. 

2 tablespoonfuls allspice. 

1 dozen cloves. 

ij teacup made mustard. 

4 tablespoonfuls white mustard-seed. 
1 pound sugar. 

4 or 6 sliced onions. 
Salt your cabbage first as for slaw, and let it stand two or 
Ihree hours. Put in a porcelain kettle and cover with weak 
vinegar ; put turmeric enough to color, boil it till tender, then 
drain off the weak vinegar, end cover it with strong cider vine- 
gar, and mix the spices well through it ; add three or more 
tablespoonfuls turmeric, and boil the whole fifteen minutes very 
hard. When cold, it is ready for use. — Mrs. 8. M. 

Chopped Cabbage Pickle. 
Cut the cabbage as for slaw, pour over it enough boiling 
brine to cover it. Chop and scald a few onions in the same 
way, cover both, and leave twenty-four hours ; then squeeze in 
a cloth until free from brine. If it should taste very salt, soak 
in clear water for a few hours and squeeze again. Loosen and 
mix the cabbage and onions thoroughly. To one-half gallon 
cabbage put : 

1 small cut onion. 

1 pound brown sugar. 

1 small box mustard. 

•J pound white mustard-seed. 

1 small cup grated horseradish. 

J ounce mace. 

1 tablespoonful ground black pepper. 

2 ounces celery-seed. 
1 ounce turmeric. 

Chopped celery and nasturtiums, if they can be had. Mix 



!404 GEEEN PICKLE. 

all, and cover -with cold vinegar. If necessary, add more vine- 
gar after it has stood awhile. — Mrs. G. N. 

Gbeen Pickle. 
Put the pickles in a strong brine, strong enough to bear an 
egg. Three weeks is long enough for them to remain in brine, 
if you wish to make your pickle early in the fall ; but they will 
keep several months, indeed all the winter, by having them 
always well covered with the brine. 

When ready to make your pickle, drain off every drop of 
brine, and pour boiling water over the pickles. Repeat this for 
three mornings in succession. Then pour off this last water, 
and soak the pickles two days in cold water, changing the 
water each morning. Next, pouring off this water, scald the 
pickles ilvree mornings in weak vinegar, weakening the vinegar 
by putting two quarts of water to one of vinegar. This is the 
time for greening the pickles, by putting in the jar or keg a 
layer of pickle, then sprinkling in a little powdered alum, and 
so on, till the vessel is filled ; then pouring on the weakened 
vinegar. Only use the alum the first morning ; but the other 
mornings pour off the vinegar and pour on a fresh quantity. 
All this is necessary, if you wish to have pickle perfectly free 
from the brine, and in a condition to keep. Fill your jars with 
the pickle thus prepared, and pour over them the best of vin- 
egar, after seasoning it and letting it boil a few minutes. Sea- 
soning to one gallon vinegar : 

3 pounds brown sugar. 

1 tablespoonful allspice. 

1 tablespoonful of cinnamon. 

1 tablespoonful of ginger. 

1 tablespoonful of black pepper, all pounded. 

20 drops oil of cloves, or 3 ounces of cloves. 

1 ounce celery-seed. 

1 pod red pepper. 

2 tablespoonfuls grated horseradish. — Mrs. C. 



GREEN PICKLES. 265 

Green Picldes. 
Put the pickle in strong brine for two days ; then boil the 
brine and pour it over them hot. Repeat this twice. Tlien 
pour over them boiling vinegar and water mixed, three succes- 
sive times, at intervals of two days. For a three-gallon jar 
take: 

1 teacup black pepper. 

1 teacup allspice. 
■^ teacup of ginger. 
^ teacup of mace. 

J teacup of cloves, all beaten, but not fine. 

2 heads of cabbage chopped fine. 
2 teacups horseradish. 

8 onions chopped fine. 
1 quart mustard seed. 
Take half of the beaten spices and mix with the latter ingre- 
dients, also three cups of brown sugar ; stuff the mangoes with 
this. Add the rest to the vinegar with five pounds of sugar, 
and pour on the pickle hot. 

This makes very superior pickle. — Miss S. S. V. 

Green JPicTde [3 griUons'\, 

2 ounces mace. 

^ pound ginger, scalded and sliced. 

2 ounces cloves. 

2 ounces cinnamon. 

2 ounces long pepper. 

2 ounces black pepper. 

2 ounces allspice. 

1 ounce nutmeg. 

\ pound horseradish scraped, sliced, but not dried. 

1 ounce turmeric. 

4 ounces black mustard-seed. 

1 ounce coriander-seed. 

•23 



266 COCUMBEES OE OTHEE SMALL PICKLES. 

2 ovmces garlic, or onion. 
2 pounds bi-own sugar. 

Prepare tlie cucumbers as follows : gather cucumbers, snaps, 
etc., aud put them in a large stone jar, pouring over them a 
strong brine which has been boiled and skimmed — hot, but not 
boiling ; cover with an old table-cloth to keep the steam in. 
Let them stand about a week, then take and soak twenty-four 
hours in cold water. Next put them in a large kettle lined 
with grape leaves, and fill, coveiing with weak vinegar. Sprin- 
kle in a dessertspoonful of powdered alum, and cover with grape 
leaves, setting on the stove until a beautiful bright green. Put 
in a jar and pour this vinegar over them and let them stand 
until next day ; then dry the pickles with a cloth, and have 
ready the jar, putting in a layer of the pickles with a layer of 
the seasoning before mentioned ; fill with strong oider vinegar. 
Tie up closely, and keep in a warm, dry place. 

The spices must be bruised or beaten tolerately fine before 
putting with pickles ; and a little salad oil added is an improve- 
ment. — Mrs. P. McG. 

Cucumbers oh otiieh small Pickles. 

2 gallons vinegar. 

3 tablespoonfuls gingei-. 

2 tablespoonfuls celery-seed. 

1 tablespoonful cinnamon. 

2 tablespoonfuls turmeric. 

1 tablespoonful horseradish. 

1 tablespoonful garlic. 

2 tablespoonfuls pepper. 
1 teaspoonful cloves. 

1 teaspoonful of mace. 

1 teaspoonful of allspice ; all the spices must be pulverized. 

Add the garlic and horseradish when cold. Add two j)Ounds 
sugar, which must be boiled in the vinegar and poured over the 
spiceij. One teaspoonful red pepper will improve it. Boil the 



PIOKLED 0DCDMBEE8 OUOUMBEK PICKLE. 267 

vegetables in plain vinegar before putting in the spiced vine- 
gar. 

Gherkins and snaps ai'e made in the same way as cucumbors- 
—Mrs. S. 

Pickled Oucumbebs. 

■J- gallon vinegar. 

3 pounds brown sugar. 
2 tablespoonfuls cloves. 
2 tablespoonfuls allspice. 
2 tablespoonfuls mustard. 
2 tablespoonfuls celery. 

1 tablespoonful white ginger. 
1 tablespoonful cinnamon. 

1 tablespoonful black pepper. 

2 pods green pepper. 

4 lemons sliced. 

A little horseradish. 

12 onions, and as many cucumbers as the vinegar will weli 
cover. 

Boil all together until the cucumbers are tender, and they 
will be ready for use in a week or so. To green (.lie fruit : line 
your brass kettle with grape-leaves, and then pour weak vine- 
gar on the cuiiumbers, cover with leaves, and boil a little while. 

—Mrs. E. I. 

Cucumber Pickle. 

2 gallons good vinegar. 
1 cup bruised ginger. 
1 cup mustard-seed. 

1 cup garlic. 

2 onions chopped fine. 
^ teacup black pepper. 
1 teacup celery-seed. 
\ ounce mace. 

■J- ounce cloves. 
■J ounce turmeric. 



268 BOILED CUGUMBEE PICICLK PICKLED CUOUMBEES. 

1 pod red pepper. 

1 handful horseradish. 

3 pounds brown sugar. 
After greening the cucumbers, put them in plain vinegar for 
a few days. Then boil the spices in one gallon of the vinegar, 
and pour it over the pickle boiling hot. Do this twice ; it will 
be ready for usp in a week. — Mrs. P. W. 

Boiled Cucumber Pickle. 

Take fresh cucumbers (size for eating), put them in brine for 
rt few days ; take them out, and put them in vinegar to soak for 
two days. Then wipe them dry, cut them in pieces one inch 
thick. Make a seasoning of a mixture of allspice, cloves, mace, 
nutmeg, and whole black pepper, about two ounces to seventy- 
five cucumbers. Add celery-seed, and onion chopped fine. 

Take a large stone jar, put a layer of cucumber and a layer 
of the mixture, with plenty of brown sugar (about eight pounds 
to a large jar). In this way fill the jar, then cover it witl 
strong vinegar : tie the mouth up securely, put the jar in a pot 
of cold water, and boil until the cucumber is tender, and they 
will be ready for use in a few days. — Mrs. C. C. McP. 

Pickled Cucumbers. 

Put them in a wooden or stone vessel, pour over strong salt 
and water boiling hot, put a weight on to keep them under the 
pickle. After three days, pour it off, boil, and turn it over 
again : let stand three days again ; then take them out and let 
them 1 -e one night in plain cold water ; next day put them over 
the fire, but do not let them boil, allowing one tablespoonful 
alum to one gallon vinegar ; mace, cinnamon, peppercorns, 
white and black mustard-seed and grated horseradish, one 
tablespoonful each to every gallon vinegar, and one teaspoon- 
ful turmeric, and two and one-half pounds sugar. Fold a 
doubld piece of linen, and a soft, thick brown paper, and tie the 



SWEET OTrCtJMBEE PICKLE — GEEEN TOMATO PICKLE. 269 

jars tight ; throw in the vinegar and keep in a dr}- place. A 
bladder and linen cloth are nice to be over the pots. — Mrs. G. P. 

Sweet Cucumber Pickle. 
Slice cucvxmbers and soak in brine a week ; then soak in salt 
water until the salt is extracted sufficiently. Boil in strong 
alum water half an hour, then in ginger tea half an houi'. 
Make a syrup of one quart good vinegar, one pint water, three 
pounds sugar, to four pounds cucumbers; season with mace, 
cinnamon, cloves, and celery-seed. Put in the cucumbers and 
boil till the syrup is thick enough. Add some sliced ginger. — 
Mrs. S. M. 

Cucumber Sweet Pickle. 
First lay the cucumbers in salt and water for one week or 
ten days ; next cut them in slices quarter of an inch thick. Then 
soak out the salt and boil them in alum water half an hour, and 
afterwards in ginger tea for one hour. Then make a syrup of 
one pint water, one quart vinegar, three pounds sugar to every 
four pounds cucumbers. Flavor with cloves, mace, and cinna- 
mon. Boil all together until the syrup is sufficiently thickened. 
—Mrs. A. C. 

To Pickle E,ipe Cucumbers. 

Take them yellow, but not too ripe, scrape the seeds well 

out ; lay them in salt and water twenty-four hours, then make 

syrup same as for peaches ; in a week scald the vinegar again. 

—Mrs. C. 

Green Tomato Pickle. 

Slice green tomatoes and onions ; sprinkle each layer with 
salt ; let them stand until next day, then press all the juice out, 
and season very highly with red and black pepper, celery, 
mustard seed, a little turmeric, and some sugar ; cover with 
vinegar, and cook until tender. — Mrs. M. D. 

Green Tomato Pickle. 
Slice and chop green tomatoes, until you have one gallon 



270 GEEEN TOMATO PIOKLE — GEEEN TOMATO SAUCE. 

Chop one dozen large onions. Mix and sprinkle four large 
spoonfuls of salt upon them, let it stand one night ; next day- 
drain off all the water, and have one quart strong vinegar, two 
pounds sugar, spices and pepper to your taste. Put in the 
vinegar, and put with the tomatoes in a porcelain kittle ; boU 
half an hour. Place in the jar for keeping and cover closely. 
Three or four days afterwards, boil again for a few minutes and 
put away for use. — Mrs. L, P. 

Green Tomato PicMe. 

One peck tomatoes sliced. 
One dozen onions. 

Sprinkle with salt, and lay by twenty -four hours ; then drain 
them. 

3 pounds sugar to one gallon vinegar. 

1^ ounces ground pepper. 

1 ounce whole cloves. 

1 ounce mustard-seed. 

1 ounce allspice. 

1 cup mustard, mixed. 
Put all in a kettle, with vinegar enough to cover ; boil till 
tender. — Mrs. S. B. 

To MAKE Green Tomato Sauce. 

16 pounds tomatoes. 
7 pints good cider vinegar. 
4 pounds brown sugar. 
•J- pint celery-seed. 
•J- pint mustard-seed. 
1^ pints onions, cut fine. 

1 teacup ground mustard. 
J- ounce mace. 

2 ounces cinnamon. 
1 ounce allspice. 



GKEEN TOMATO SAUOB. 271 

•J ounce cloves. 

^ pound black pepper. 

Put all of the spices in the vinegar, and boil one hour. Then 

put in the tomatoes, which you must slice the night before, and 

put one layer of salt and one of tomatoes. Drain the water off, 

and boil the tomatoes in the spiced vinegar till done. — Mrs.Dr. S. 

Green Tomato Sauce. 
Peel and slice the tomatoes. To two gallons add : 
5 tablespoonfuls ground mustard. 
2^ tablespoonfuls ground black pepper, 
2 tablespoonfuls ground allspice. 

2 tablespoonfuls ground cloves. 

3 gills white mustard-seed. 
1 gill celery-seed. 

1 gill salt. 

1 pint onions, chopped fine, 

2 quarts brown sugar. 
2 quarts vinegar. 

Beat all the spices, except the mustard-seed, and boil togethei 
until thick as marmalade. — Mrs. S. T. 

Green. Tomato SoMce. 

2 gallons tomatoes, sliced. 

3 tablespoonfuls salt. 

3 gills of mustard-seed, whole. 
2^ tablespoonfuls pepper. 
1^ tablespoonfuls allspice. 
3 tablespoonfuls mustard, beaten smooth, 
1 teaspoonful cloves. 
1 teaspoonful cinnamon. 
1 teaspoonful celery-seed. 
1 pint onions, chopped fine. 
1 quart sugar. 
2-J- quarts vinegar. 
Mix thoroughly and boil till done. — Mrs. P. McQ. 



272 6weh;t tomato piokle — ripe tomato pickle. 

Sweet Tomato Pickle. 

Peel small tomatoes vrith a sharp knife; scald in strong 
ginger tea until clear. To four pounds tomatoes, two pounds 
sugar, not quite one quart vinegar ; cinnamon, mace, nutmeg, 
to taste. 

Scald the tomatoes and pour on boiling hot. — J/rs. J. M. F. 

Sweet Tomato PicMe. 

Boil green tomatoes in strong ginger tea for ten minutes. 
Then take out, and to every two pounds add one quart of vine- 
gar, one pound sugar, cinnamon, cloves and mace to your taste. 
—Mrs. P. 

Sweet Tomato Pickle. 

Slice one gallon green tomatoes, and put a handful salt to 
each layer of tomatoes. Let them stand twelve hours, then 
drain off the liquor, and add to them two green peppers, and 
from two to four onions, sliced ; take two quarts vinegar, half a 
pint molasses, two tablespoonfuls mustard, one teaspoonful all- 
spice, and one of cloves ; heat it until it begins to boil, then 
put in tomatoes, onions, and peppers ; let them boil ten minutes : 
pour into a stone jar, and seal tight. In a fortnight they will 
be ready for use. — Mrs. Dr. P. O. 

To MAKE Piccalilli. 

To one-half bushel nicely chopped tomatoes, which must be 
squeezed dry, add two dozen onions, chopped fine, one dozen 
green peppers, chopped, one box ground mustard, one large root 
horseradish, nearly one pint salt, four tablespoonfuls ground 
cloves, four tablespoonfuls allspice. 

Mix thoroughly in a stone jar and cover with vinegar, making 
a hole in the centre to let the vinegar to the bottom. — Mrs. P. 

Ripe Tomato Pickle. 
Puncture the tomato with a thorn or straw. Put a layer of 
tomatoes, with onions cut up. Sprinkle salt on them, then put 



TOMAIX) MARMALADE OB SAUCE FOE MEATS. 273 

another layer of tomatoes and onions, with salt sprinkled over 
them. When you have filled the jar or vessel with tomatoes, 
let them remain about a week, then lay them in dishes to drain. 
Give each tomato a gentle squeeze, to get the salt water out. 
Put them in a jar and cover with strong vinegar. Boil a small 
quantity of vinegar with pepper, horseradish, and such other 
spices as you like, and pour it over the tomatoes. To two gal- 
lons of tomatoes, use a hox of mustard dissolved in the vine- 
gar. — Mrs. C. 0. 

Tomato Marmalade or Sauce for Meats. 

Scald and peel fully ripe tomatoes, then cut them up, if large. 
To twel ve pounds add six pounds sugar, one tablespoonful beaten 
cloves, one tablespoonful spice and one tablespoonful cinnamon. 

Boil all in a kettle until the syrup becomes the thickness of 
molasses. Then add one quart of strong vinegar and boil for 
ten minutes. Pnt away in quart jars — Mrs. Mc G. 

Hyden Salad. 

1 gallon cabbage. 

■J- gallon green tomatoes. 

J gallon onions, — all chopped fine. 

4 tablespoonfuls salt. 

2 tablespoonfuls giager. 
2 tablespoonfuls cloves. 

1 tablespoonful cinnamon. 

2 tablespoonfuls mustard. 
1^ pounds brown sugar. 
Plenty of celery-seed. 

^ gallon strong vinegar. 
Boil the whole one-half hour. — Mrs. H. D. 

Hyden Salad. 
Cut one gallon cabbage as for slaw, one-half gallon green toma- 
toes. Cut up one pint green pepper, taking out the seed care- 



274 HTDEN SALAD. 

fully and cutting up the pod (do not use the seed), one quart 
onions cut up, and the water pressed from them and thrown 
away. 

Mix all these, and sprinkle througli them 2 tablespoonfula 
saU, and let them stand over night. Then take : 

2 pounds sugar. 

3 large spoonfuls ginger. 

3 large spoonfuls turmeric. 

3 spoonfuls celery-seed. 

3 spoonfuls ground mustard. 

2 spoonfuls allspice. 

2 spoonfuls cinnamon. 

1 spoonful cloves. 

1 spoonful mace. 
Beat all fine, and mix with the salad ; pour over the whole 
three quarts good vinegar, and simmer for twenty minutes. 
Ready for use very soon, and very good. — Mrs. G. M. A. 

Syden Salad. 

1 gallon cabbage, chopped fine. 
■J- gallon green tomatoes, chopped fine. 
■^ pint green pepper, chopped fine. 
1 pint onions, chopped fine. 
Sprinkle salt, and let it stand overnight ; next morning, poui 
boiling water over, and squeeze dry. Take : 
2 ounces ginger. 

4 tablespoonfuls ground mustard. 
1 ounce cinnamon. 

1 ounce cloves. 

2 ounces turmeric. 

1 ounce celery-seed. 

2 pounds sugar. 
2 spoonfuls salt. 

^ gallon vinegar. Boil ten minutes. — Mrs. H. 



HTDEN SALAD. 275 

By den Salad. 
Cut up fine, 1 gallon cabbage. 
^ gallon green tomatoes. 
\ pint green pepper. 

1 quart onions minced, the juice thrown away. 
Add to all these : 

4 tablespoonfuls ground mustard. 
2 tablespoonfuls ginger. 
1 tablespoonful cinnamon. 

1 tablespoonful cloves. 

2 ounces of turmeric. 

1 ounce celerj'-seed. 

2 pounds sugar. 

2 tablespoonfuls salt. 
Mix all well together, add one-half gallon good vinegar, and 
boil slowly twenty minutes. Take the seed out of the green 
pepper. Make late in the summer. — Mrs. Ji. 

Hyden Scdad. 

1 gallon of finely chopped cabbage. 

!■§• gallon green tomatoes. 

1 pint green peppers — J- pint will do. 

1 quart onions. 

•J pint horseradish. 

1 pound sugar. 
^ gallon vinegar. 

4 tablespoonfuls ground mustard, 

2 tablespoonfuls ginger. 
1 tablespoonful cloves. 

1 tablespoonful cinnamon. 

1 tablespoonful celery-seed, 

2 spoonfuls salt. 

Beat the spice well, mix all together well, and boil fifteen 
minutes. 



276 OIL MANGOES TO MAKE OIL MANGOES. 

Black peppers can be used instead of the green, one table- 
spoonful ground. — Mrs. E. C. G. 



Oil Mangoes. 

1 pound race ginger, well soaked, beaten and dned. 

1 pound horseradish. 

1 pound white mustard-seed. 

1 pound black mustard-seed, 

2 ounces ground mustard. 
2 ounces black pepper. 

2 ounces turmeric. 
2 ounces cloves. 
■^ ounce mace. 

1 ounce celery-seed. 

2 pounds sugar. 

Beat the ingredients together in a mortar, and mix the mus- 
tard with as much olive oil as will make a paste. Then after 
the mangoes have been in brine two weeks, and greened as you 
would cucumbers, stuft' them; if any filling is left, sprinkle 
between the layers in the jar. Pour over as much boiling vin 
agar as will cover them. — Mrs. T. C. 

To Make Oil Mangoes. 
Put the mangoes in strong brine for five days. Wash them, 
and remove the seed. 
Stuffing for the same. 

1^ pound white mustard-seed, 
■J- pound pounded ginger. 
J- pound black pepper, pounded. 
4 tablespoonfuls celery-seed. 
3 ounces mace. 
Mix these ingredients with as little oil as possible, stuff the 
mangoes with it, adding scraped horseradish and one blade of 
gallic. Pour cold vinegar over them, and one pound salt. Press 



GREEN MANGOES STUFFING FOE SIXTY MAN«0E8. 277 

the mangoes under the vinegar, and watch them closely. It is 
well to scaW the vinegar in the spring. — Mrs. H. T. 

To Green Mangoes. 
A fter taking them from the brine, lay them in a kettle with 
giape-vine leaves between each layer of mangoes ; a little alum 
sprinkled on each layer. Let them simmer all day, changing 
the leaves if necessary. If not green enough, put them on the 
second day. — Mrs. E. 

Mangoes. 
To a three-gallon jar of mangoes prepared for the vinegar, 
take : 

1 teacup black pepper. 

1 ounce allspice. 
\ ounce ginger. 
^ ounce mace. 

\ ounce cloves, beat well, but not fine. 
Take one head of raw cabbage. 
8 onions. 

2 teacups of horseradish. 
1 quart of mustard-seed. 

Take half the beaten spices, and mix with the lattei 
ingredients, also three cups of brown sugar \ besides, put one 
teaspoonful brown sugar in each mango before you put in the 
stuffing. 

It takes five pounds of sugar for a three-gallon jar. The bal- 
ance of the sugar mix with the spice and vinegar enouj,'. to 
cover the pickle. — Mrs. H. C. 

Stuffing for Sixty Mangoes. 
1 pound black mustard-seed. 

1 pound white mustard»seed. 

2 pounds chopped onion. 
1 ounce mace. 



278 PEAOH MANGOES. 

1 ounce nutmeg. 

2 handfuls black pepper. 

1 ounce turmeric, well mixed with cold water. 

Pound the mace, nutmeg, and pepper. 

1 cup sweet oil. 

^ pound English mustard. 

4 pounds brown sugar. 
Mix all these well together, throwing in little bits of mango 
or cucumbers. 

Peach Mangoes. 
Pour boiling salt water over the peaches — let them stand two 
days ; take them out and slit them on one side, and put them 
in turmeric vinegar for two days. Extract the seed, stuff and 
sew them up, and put in the prepared vinegar. Prepare the 
stuffing as follows : chop some of the peaches from the turmeric 
vinegar, add a large quantity of mustard-seed, celery-seed, a 
good deal of brown sugar — one pound to two and a half pounds 
peaches ; ground ginger, cinnamon, cloves, pepper, turmeric, and 
any other spices, if you like. Onions chopped fine. Vinegar 
to be seasoned the same way ; and any of the stuffing left may 
be put in the vinegar. — Mrs. C. G. 

Peach Mcmgoes. 

Remove the stones from large white Heath peaches by cut- 
ting in halyes. Stuflf them with white mustard-seed, a little 
pounded mace, turmeric, and celery-seed. Sew them up, and 
drop them in with the yellow cabbage. — Mrs. H. T. 

Peach Mangoes. 

Pout boiling salt water over the peaches, let them stand two 
days ; then take them out, slit them on the side, and put them 
in turmeric vinegar for two days or longer. Take them out, 
extract the seed, stuff them, sew them up, and put into the 
prepared a inegar. To prepare the stuffing : 

Chop up some of ' he peaches, add a large quantity of white 



PEACH MANGOES PEPPEK MANGOES. 27S 

mustard-seed, a good deal of brown sugar, some ground ginger, 
cinnamon, cloves, pepper, turmeric, celery-seed, also a great deal 
of chopped onion. Vinegar, seasoned with same ingredients. 
Quantity of spices can be regulated by your taste. — Miss S. 

Peach Mangoes. 
Take large plum peaches, suflBcient quantity to fill the jar. 
Peel nicely, and take out the stones. Have x'eady the stuffing 
in proportion to the peaches. Mince fine some soft peaches, 
preserved orange peel, preserved ginger, coriander-seed, celery- 
seed, a small quantity mace, cinnamon, candied strawberries, if 
you have them, and pickled cherries. Sew the peaches up, after 
stuffing them, and fill the jar. Then to every pound cofiee 
sugar add one-half pint vinegar, allowing the above quantity 
to two pounds fruit. Make a syrup of the sugar and vinegar, 
and pour on the peaches, boiling-hot Repeat this for three 
mornings ; the fourth morning put them all on together, and boil 
a short time ; add a few spices, cinnamon, and ginger to the 
syrup when you make it. They will be ready for use in a few 
weeks. — Mrs. S. 

Pepper Mangoes. 
With a sharp knife take the cap out of the pod, then scrape 
out the seed. Lay the pods in weak salt and water for one 
hour. 

Take hard cabbage, chop t? em very fine, and to every quart of 
cabbage, add 

1 tablespoonful salt. 

1 tablespoonful pulverized black pepper, 

2 tablespoonfuls white mustard-seed. 
1 teaspoonful ground mustard. 

Mix all this well together, drain the peppers, and stuff them 
with the mixture, and replace the cap. 

Pack them closeiy in a stone jar, with the small end down- 
wards. Do ibis until ihe jar is filled ; then pour on them strong 



280 TO PICKUE WALNUTS — WALNUT PICKLE. 

cold vinegar. They aie ready for use in three weeks. You 
can use spices and sugar, if preferred. — Mrs. W. A. S. 

To Pickle "Walnuts. 
After the waluuts have been in brine six weeks, scrape and 
wipe them with a coarse towel. Put them in plain vinegar, and 
let them remain for a week or two. Drain them well — ^place in 
a jar, and pour over them vinegar spiced and prepared as for yel- 
low pickles, omitting the turmeric and lemons, and using black 
pepper instead of white. — Mrs. S. T. 

Walnut Pickle. 
The walnuts must be quite green and tender. First soak 
them in fresh water, then rub off with a coarse towel. The wal- 
nuts must be kept in brine a week, and then soaked in clear 
water for several hours. Boil them in vinegar a little while — 
this time put water in the vinegar ; then put them in good 
strong vinegar, a portion of which must be boiled and poured 
over them four successive moi-nings. Season with cinnamon, 
mace, cloves, and add two pounds sugar to one gallon vinegar, 
or in proportion to quantity of pickle. — Mrs. G. C 

Walnut PicM^. 

Gather the nuts about the 10th or 20th of June, when they 
are sufficiently tender to be pierced with a pin ; pour boiling 
salt water on, and let them be covered with it nine days, chang- 
ing it every third day. Put them on dishes to air, until they 
are black ; then soak out the salt, and put them in weak vinegar 
for a day or two ; put into the ^ar, and pour on hot the follow- 
ing pickled vinegar : 

7 ounces ginger. 

7 ounces of garlic. 

7 ounces of salt. 

7 ounces of horseradish, 

^ ounce red pepper. 



WAI-injT PIOKLE PICKLED MAKTINA8. 281 

•J- ounce of orange peel. 

■J- ounce of mace. 

■J ounce of cloves, all boiled in 1 gallon strong vinegar, 

1 ounce black pepper also. — Mrs. J. H. F. 

'Wall/nut Pickle. 
Put the walnuts in salt water for five or six weeks; then in 
fresh water for twenty-four hours ; boil in weak vinegar and 
water until soft enough to run a straw through. Then rub 
them with a coarse towel ; make a strong liquor of vinegar, 
horseradish, garlic, and mace ; poxir on, and leave them till ready 
for use, in two or three weeks. — Mrs. T. 

To Pickle Martinas. 
Take one gallon pot full of martinas. Make a brine strong 
enough to bear an egg ; keep them covered for ten days. Take 
them out and wash them in cold water, then put them in cold 
vinegar. Let them remain for ten days ; drain them, and put 
them in the jar intended for use. In half a gallon of vinegar 
scald a large handful of horseradish, scraped fine. 

A cupful black pepper. 

1 cupful ginger. 

\ cupful black mustard-seed. 

3 tablespoonfvxls of beaten cloves. 

3 onions sliced fine. 

1 pod red pepper. 

3 pounds brown sugar. 
Pour them over the pickle, and fill with cold vinegar. — Mrs. 

S. D. 

Pickled Martinas. 

Put three gallons of martinas in very strong brine, keep 
covered for ten days, then wash them in cold water, and put 
them in vinegar to stand ten more days ; then drain and put 
them in the jar intended for them. In three pints of vinegar, 

scald : 

24 



282 TO PICKLE MAETINAS CHOW-CHOW PICKLE. 

A. large handful of scraped horseradish. 
1 cup allspice. 
■J- cup black pepper. 
1 cup of ginger. 
■J cup of black mustard. 
3 large spoonfuls of cloves, all beaten. 
3 onions sliced. 
1 pod red pepper. 
3 pounds brown sugar. 
Pour it over the martinas, and fill up with cold vinegar. — 

Mli^M T. 

To Pickle Maktinas. 

Put iLe martinaj in a strong brine of salt and water, let 
them remain a week or ten days. Then wash them, and put 
them in cold vinegar, to soak the salt and greenish taste out of 
them. When ready to pickle, lay them out to drain; scald 
the following ingredients in a gallon of vinegar, and pour over 
them in a jar ; if not full, fill up with cold vinegar, 
1 large hanrtful of sliced horseradish. 

1 teacup of allspice. 

^ cup of black pepper. 

\ cup of mustard-seed (black). 

2 tablespoonfuls cloves. 

2 pounds brown sugar. 

3 or four onions, sliced. 

The spices to be beaten, but not too fine. This quantity fills 
a two-gallon jar. — Mrs. J". «/". M. 

Chow-Chow Pickle. 
•J- peck green tomatoes. 
2 large cabbages. 
15 onions. 
25 cucumbers. 
1 plate horseradish. 
^ pound mustard-seed. 



CHOW- OHO W. JSOt' 

1 ounce celery-seed. 

2 ounces ground pepper. 
2 ounces turmeric. 

■^ ounce cinnamon. 
Cut the onions, tomatoes, cucumbers and cabbage in small 
pieces ; pack them down overnight in salt, lightly ; in the 
morning pour off the brine, and put them to soak in weak vin- 
egar two days; drain again, and mix the spices. Boil half a 
gallon vinegar and three pounds sugar, and pour over them hot. 
Mix two boxes ground seed. — Mrs. JR. A. 

Chow-Chow. 
\ peck onions. 
^ peck green tomatoes. 
5 dozen cucumbers. 
Slice all very fine, and put in a few whole cucumbers, one 
pint small red and green peppers ; sprinkle one pint salt over 
them, and let them stand all night ; then add : 
1 ounce mace. 

1 ounce white mustard-seed. 
1 ounce celery-seed. 
1 ounce turmeric. 

1 ounce whole cloves. 

3 tablespoonfuls ground mustard. 

2 pounds brown sugar. 

1 stalk horseradish, grated fine. 
Cover all with one gallon and one pint of strong vinegar, and 
boil thirtj- minutes. — Miss E. T. 

Chow- Chow. 
^ peck onions. 
^ peck green tomatoes. 

3 dozen large cucumbers. 

4 large green peppers. 

■J- pint small peppers, red and green. 



284 OHOW-OHOW PICKLE OHOW-OHOW. 

Sprinkle one pint salt on, and let them stand all night ; the 
cucumbers not peeled, but sliced one inch thick, the onions 
also sliced. In the morning drain off the brine, and add to the 
pickles : 

1 ounce mace. 

1 ounce black pepper. 

1 ounce white mustard-seed. 

1 ounce turmeric. 
^ ounce cloves. 

^ ounce celery-seed. 

3 tablespoonfuls made mustard. 

2 pounds brown sugar. 
"With a little horseradish. 

Cover with vinegar, and boil till tender, a half-hour or more 
When cold, ready for use. — -Mrs. O. N. 

Ohow-Chow Pickle. 

1 gallon chopped cabbage. 
4 onions. 

2 pounds brown sugar. 
2 pints strong vinegar. 

2 tablespoonfuls black pepper. 

2 tablespoonfuls of allspice. 

2 tablespoonfuls of celery-seed. 

^ pint mustard-seed. 

1 tablespoonful ground mustard. 
The cabbage and onions must stand in strong salt and water 
two hours, then place in a brass kettle, with the vinegar and 
spices, and sugar; boil until syrup is formed. Excellent. — 
Mrs. J. S. F. 

Chow-Chow. 

The recipe is for one gallon pickle ; for more, the quantities 
must be increased, of course. The ingredients consist of: 
\ peck green tomatoes. 
1 large head of cabbage. 



LEESBURG OHOW-OHOW. 285 

6 large onions. 

1 dozen cncvimbers. 

■J pint grated horseradish 

•J pound white mustard-seed. 

^ ounce celery-seed. 

A few small onions. 

^ teacup ground pepper. 

Turmeric, ground cinnamon. 

A little brown sugar. 
Cut the cabbage, onions and cucumbers into small pieces, an d 
pack them down in salt one night ; then put in vinegar, poured 
over hot. Do this three mornings. The third morning, mix 
one box ground mustard with one-quarter pint salad oil. To 
be mixed in while warm. — Mrs. 0. B. 



Lebsbueg Chow-Chow. 

^ peck green tomatoes. 
2 large heads cabbage. 
15 large white onions. 
25 cucumbers. 
Cut these up, and pack in salt for a night. Drain off, and 
then soak in vinegar and water for two days. Drain again. 
Mix with this, then : 

1 pint grated horseradish. 
J- pint small white onions. 
^ pound white mustard-seed. 
1 ounce celery-seed. 
•J- teacup ground black pepper. 
^ teacup turmeric. 
■§■ teacup cinnamon. 
Pour over one and a half gallons boiling hot vinegar. Boil 
this vinegar for three mornings ; the third morning, mix with 
two boxes mustard, three pounds brown sugar, and half-pinf 
sweet oil. — Mrs. J. B. D. 



286 sweet pickle peaches ^pickled pea(jhe8. 

Sweet Pickle Peaches. 
Powder cloves, mace, and allspice, and mix well together 
To every pound fruit add one-quarter pound sugar, one gill 
vinegar, one teaspoonful of the mixed spices. Boil all together, 
and when the fruit is done, take from the syrup, and lay on dish- 
es. Let the syrup cook thoroughly. Put the fruit in jars, and 
pour on the syrup. Cover when cool. — Mrs. D. R. 

To Pickle Peaches. 
1 pound peaches. 
■J pound sugar. 
1 pint vinegar. 

Mace, cloves, cinnamon ; boil the ingredients every day, for 
six days, and pour over the peaches. — Mrs. F. D. G-. 

Spiced Peaches. 

Take nine pounds ripe peaches, rub them with a coarse towel, 
and halve them. Put four pounds sugar and one pint good 
vinegar in the kettle with cloves, cinnamon, and mace. When 
the syrup is formed, throw in the peaches a few at a time ; 
when clear, take them out and put in more. Boil the syrup 
till quite rich ; pour it over the peaches. 

Cherries can be pickled in the same way. — Mrs. C. C 

Peaches to Pickle. 

Make a syrup with one quart vinegar and three pounds 

sugar ; peel the peaches and put them in the vinegar, and let 

boil very little. Take out the fruit, and let the vinegar boil 

half an hour, adding cinnamon, cloves, and allspice. — Mrs. 

A.M. 

Pickled Peaches. 

Take peaches pretty ripe, but not mellow ; wipe with flannel as 
smooth as possible ; stick a few cloves in each one. One pound 
sugar to one pint vinegar. Allow three pounds sugar and thi'ee 
pints vinegar to one pan peaches. Scald the vinegar, then put 



PICKLED PEACHES — CANTALOUPE PICKLE. 287 

on the peaches ; boil till nearly soft, then take out and boil the 
vinegar a little longer, and pour over the fruit. — Mrs. G. P. 

Pickled Peaches. 
Put the peaches in strong brine, and let them remain three ot 
four days ; take them out, and wipe them dry ; put them in a 
pot with allspice, pepper, ginger, and horseradish ; boil some . 
turmeric in your vinegar. Pour it on hot. — Miss E. T. 

Peach, Peab, Quince and Apple Pickle. 

1 pound fruit. 

■J pound sugar 

\ pint vinegar. 

Dissolve sugar and vinegar together ; put a small quantity of 

fruit ; boil until you can stick a straw through it. Season with 

cinnamon and mace. Rescald the vinegar, and pour over tL" 

fruit for nine mornings. — Mrs. Dr. J'. 

Sweet Pickle. {Honolulu Melon.) 
4 pints vinegar, very clear. 
4 pints sugar 
1 ounce cloves. 
1 ounce cinnamon. 
Put all to boil, then drop in the melons, as much as the vijiegar 
will cover, and boil fifteen minutes. Put them in jars, and every 
day, for two or three days, pour off the vinegar, boil it over, and 
pour on the pickles until they seem done. — Mrs. M. W, T. 

Cantaloupe Pickle. 
Cut up ripe melons into small square pieces, peel and scrape 
out the soft pulp and seeds, soak one night in alum water, and 
then boil in strong ginger tea. Then to each pound of fruit add 
three-quarters of a pound loaf sugar, mace, cinnamon, and white 
ginger to the taste, and cover with best cider vinegar Boil 
till it can be pierced with a straw, then set aside, and Maa next 



28S CANTALOUPE PIOKLB SWEET WATEEMELON PICKLE. 

day pour off, and boil the syrup until it thickens a little, and 
return to the fruit boiling-hot. — Urs. F. F. F- 

Gamtaloupe PicTde. 

Pare and cut in small pieces, cover with vinegar ; pour off 
and measure, and to each pint put three-quarters of a pound 
brown sugar • cloves and mace to your taste. 

Boil the syrup, put in the fruit and boil until clear ; then take 
out the fruit, boil a few minutes longer, and pour it on the 
pickles, hot. When cold, it is ready for use. — Mrs. E. I. 

Camtaloupe PicMe. 
Take four or five cantaloupes, quarter, and cover with vinegar ; 
to stand twenty-four hours. Then measure off the vinegar, 
leaving out one quart. To each quart, add three pounds brown 
sugar, cinnamon, cloves, and mace to the taste. Place the 
spiced vinegar over the fire, and when it has boiled awhile, drop 
in the fruit, cooking it thirty or forty minutes. — Mrs. R. P. 

Ripe Muskmelon Pickles. 

Take hard melons, after they are sufficiently ripe to be well 
flavored. Slice them lengthwise, scrape out the seed, and lay 
the melon in salt over night ; wash and wipe diy, put them in 
alum water one hour, wash and wipe them again ; cut them in 
slices and pack in jars. Pour over them a syrup of vinegar 
seasoned with cinnamon and cloves ; put three or four pounds of 
sugar to one gallon vinegar, and boil until it is right thick. — 
Mrs. A. a 

Sweet Watermelon Piokle. 

Trim the rinds nicely, being careful to cut off the hard coat- 
ing -n-ith the outer green. Weigh ten pounds rind and throw 
it in a kettle, and cover with soft water ; let this boil gently foi 
half an hour, take it off and lay it on dishes to drain. Next 
morning put one quart vinegar, three pounds brown sugar, one 



WATEEMELON PIOKLK I'ICKLED PLUMS. 289 

ounce ciunamon, one ounce mace, the white of one egg well 
beaten and thrown on top of the liquid (to clear it as you would 
jelly), three teaspoonfuls turmeric, all together in a kettle, and 
boil for a few minutes ; skim off what rises as scum with the 
egg. Throw in the rind, and boil for twenty minutes. The 
peel of two fresh lemons will give a nice flavor, though not at 
all necessary. — Mrs. L. TPI C. 

Watermelon Pickle. 
4 pounds watermelon rind. 
2 pounds sugar. 
1 pint vinegar. 

Mace, cloves, cinnamon, and ginger to the taste. 
Peel the rind and out in pieces ; boil in ginger tea till clear, 
then throw in cold water overnight. Next morning make a 
syrup and preserve the rind ; just befoi-e taking off the fire, 
pour in the vinegar. — Mrs. A, T. 

Watermelon Rind Pickle. 
Ten pounds melon, boil in water until tender. Drain the 
water off. Make a syrup of two pounds .sugar, one quart 
vinegar, one-half ounce cloves, one ounce cinnamon; boil all 
this and pour over rind boiling-hot ; drain off the syrup and let 
it come to a boil ; then pour it over the melons. — Mrs. G. C 

McP. 

Pickle of Watermelon Rind. 

Cut in pieces and soak the rind in weak salt and water for 
twenty-four hours — of course having first peeled off the out- 
side. To seven pounds rind put three pounds sugar ; scald 
well in ginger tea, and make a syrup of the sugar and vinegar, 
enough to cover the rind. Season the syrup with mace and 
ginger, and boil the rind in it till tender. A delicious pickle. — 

Mrs. Br. P. C. 

Pickled Plums. 

7 pounds sweet blue plums. 
4 pounds brown sugar. 



290 TO PICICLK DAMSONS — GERMAN PICKLE. 

2 ounces stick cinnamon. 

2 ounces whole cloves. 

1 qiiai't vinegar. 
Put a layer of plums and spice alternately ; scald the vinegar 
and sugar together ; pour it on the plums ; repeat for two or 
three days, the last time scalding plums and syrup togethei*. — 
Mrs. W. 

To Pickle Damsons. 

Take seven pounds damsons, wash and wipe them dry, three 
pounds sugar, one-half ounce cinnamon, half-ounce mace, half- 
ounce cloves, half-ounce allspice. 

With one quart strong vinegar and the sugar make a syrup, 
and pour it over the fruit boiling-hot. Let it stand twenty- 
four hours ; repeat the boiling next day, and let it remain twen- 
ty-four hours longer ; then \n\t all on the fire together and cook 
till the fruit is done. — Miss D. D. 

Sweet Piukle. 

Boil in three quarts of vinegar four or five ]iounds sugar, one 
ounce cinnamon, one o\ince allspice, one ounce mace, one-lialf 
ounce cloves, and pour all over fourteen pounds damsons or 
peeled peaches. — Mrs. O. Ji. 

German Pickle. 

■^ pound white sugar. 

1 pound damsons. 

1 pint vinegar. 

1 teaspoonfid cloves. 

A few sticks of cinnamon. 
Make a syrup with vinegar, sugar and spices, then drop in a 
few of the damsons at a time. Scald them until tlie skins crack, 
laying each quantity in a disli till all are done. Fill the jars 
three-fourths full, and jxiur iy tlit^ syrup. — 3Irs. It. L. P. 



oompositiok pickle — ragotit pickle. 291 

Damson Pickle. 

7 pounds fruit. 

1 ounce ciunamon. 

1 ounce cloves. 

1 ounce mace. 

1 ounce celei-y-seed. 

3 pounds brown sugar. 
Spices to be beaten fine ; put them in the jar, sprinkling the 
spice through in layers. Boil one quart vinegar with the sugar, 
and pour over the fruit and spices. Repeat the scalding of the 
vinegar for four days. — Mrs. G. JV. 

Composition Pickle. 

1 gallon chopped cabbage, 
■^ gallon green tomatoes, sliced, 
^ gallon cucumbers, 
1 quart onions, 
all finely chopped. Let them stew several hours, then 4rAiv 
oiF the water. Add : 

4 tablespoonfuls ground mustard. 
2 tablespoonfuls ginger. 

1 ounce cloves. 

2 ounces turmeric. 

2 ounces celery seed. 

2 pounds brown sugar. 

2 spoonfuls salt. 

^ gallon strong vinegar ; boil twenty minutes. — Mrs. C C, 

Ragout Pickle. 

2 gallons chopped cabbage. 

2 gallons green or ripe tomatoes. 
5 tablespoons of mustard, ground. 

3 gills mustard-seed. 

2 tablespoonfuls allspice, 



292 KKNTUCK.Y PICKLE — FBENCH PIOKLS. 

2 teaspoonfuls cloves. 
1 gill salt. 

1 pint chopped onions. 

1 pound brown sugar. 

Some chopped celery, or celery-seed. 

3 quarts good cider vinegar. 

Boil all well togethei-, and it is ready for use. — Mins E. T. 

Kentucky Pickle. 

Take green tomatoeSj cabbage, and onions, about equal qvian- 
tities — grind them in a sausage machine. Salt, and put the 
mixture in a bag, and let it hang all night or until the juice has 
run from it — then season with red and black pepper, mustard- 
seed, celery-seed, cloves, sugar. 

Pack in jars, and cover with strong cold vinegar. — Mrs. M. 1). 

French Pickles. 
1 peck green tomatoes. 
\ peck onions. 

J pound white mustard-seed. 
1 ounce allspice. 
1 ounce cloves. 

1 bottle mixed mustard. 

2 tablesjjoonfuls black pepper. 
1 tablespoonful cayenne. 

1 ounce celery-seedi 
1 pound brown sugar. 
Slice the tomatoes aud lay them in salt for twelve hours ; pour 
off the brine. 

Slice the onions, and put a layer of onions, tomatoes, spices 
and sugar into a bell-metal kettle, until the ingredients are 
all in. Pour iu vinegar until well covered, and boil for one 
hour. — Mrs. Dr. 8. 

French Pickle. 
1 gallon cabbage. 
\ gallon green tomatoes. 



SPANISH PICKLE — ONION PIOKLE. 293 

1 quart onions. 

6 pods green pepper, without the seed. 

3 tablespoonfuls ground mustard, or seed. 

1 tablespoonful ginger. 

1 tablespoonful horseradish. 

1 tablespoonful cinnamon. 

1 tablespoonful cloves. 

2 tablespoonfuls salt. 

1 tablespoonful celery. 

J pound sugar. 

^ gallon vinegar. 
Chop up cabbage, tomatoes, onions, and pepper ; sprinkle salt 
over it, and let it stand an hour or so, a,nd pour oflf the liquor. 
Add spices and vinegar, boil all together until you can stick a 
straw through the cabbage and tomatoes. This, as you see, will 
only make a small quantity when boiled down.— J/rs. M. 
McN. 

Spanish Pickle. 

4 dozen large cucumbers. 

4 large green peppers. 

\ peck onions. 

\ peck green tomatoes. 
Slice the whole, and sprinkle over with one pint salt, allow 
them to remain over night, then drain them. Put the whole 
into a preserving kettle, and dXA. the following ingredients : 
sliced horseradish according to your judgment, one ounce mace, 
one ounce white pepper, one ounce turmeric, one ounce white 
mustard-seed, half an ounce cloves, half an ounce celery-seed, 
four tablespoonfuls of dry mustard, one and a half pounds 
brown sugar. Cover the whole with vinegar, and boil it one 
hour.— JIfrs. J. J. M. 

Onion Pickle. 
Peel and scald the onions in strong salt water twenty-five or 
thirty minutes ; take them out and lay on dishes in the sun, a 



294 PIOKLED ONIONS ^APPLE PICKLE. 

day or two, then put them in vinegar prepared as for cabbage 
pickle. — Mrs. Dr. J". 

Pickled Onions. 
Pour boiling water over the onions and let them stand until 
the brine gets cooled ; then change the brine for nine mornings, 
warming it every day. The ninth day put them in fresh water, 
and let them soak one day and night. Then put the spices and 
vinegar on the fire, and let them come to a boil, and drop in the 
onions in a few minutes ; add sugar to your taste. — Mrs. A. H. 

Lemon Pickle. 
Kasp the lemons a little and nick them at one end ; lay them 
in a dish with very dry salt, let them be near the fire, and 
covered. They must stand seven or eight days, then put in 
fresh salt, and remain the same time ; then wash them well, and 
pour on boiling vinegar, grated nutmeg, mace, and whole pep- 
per. Whenever the salt becomes damp, it must be taken out 
and dried. The lemons will not be tender for nearly a year. 
The time to pickle them is about February. — Mrs. A. 

Pickling Fifty Lemons. 

Grate oflF the yellow rind, cut off the end, and pack in salt for 
eight days. Set them in a hot oven, in dishes ; turning until the 
salt candies on them. Place them in a pot and pour on two 
gallons vinegar (boiling) to which has been added two pounds 
white mustard-seed, two tablespoonfuls mace, one pound ginger, 
four tablespoonfuls celery-seed, one pound black pepper, two 
pounds sugar, one handful horseradish scraped. 

All the spices, except mustard-seed, must be pulverized.— 

Mrs.M.p. a 

Apple Pickle. 
3 pounds apples. 
2 pounds sugar. 
1 pint vinegar. 



CHEERY PIOKLK TOMATO CATSUP. 295 

1 teaspoonful mace. 

1 tablespoonfiil beaten cinnamon. 

1 dozen cloves. 

2 teaspoonfuls allspice. 

1 tablespoonful beaten ginger. 
1 tablespoonful celery-seed. 
Boil until the apples are perfectly clear. — -Mrs. J'. A. S. 

Cherry Pickle. 

Pick firm, ripe, short-stem cherries, and lay them in a stone 
jar, with the stems on. Put into a kettle vinegar, sweetened 
to your taste, allspice, mace, cloves, and cinnamon. 

Put on the fire until it is scalding hot, then pour over the 
cherries, and let them stand until next day, when the vinegar 
must be poured off them into the kettle again, and scalded as 
before, and poured on the cherries. Repeat this for nine morn- 
ings, and your pickle is ready for use. — 3Irs. 0. 

Pickled Blackberries. 

One pound sugar, one pint vinegar, one teaspoonful powdered 

cinnamon, one teaspoonful allspice, one teaspoonful cloves, one 

teaspoonful nutmeg. Boil all together, gently, fifteen minutes, 

then add four quarts blackberries, and scald (but not boil) ten 

minutes more. The spices can be omitted, if preferred. — 

Mrs. W. 

Tomato Catsup. 

Take sound, ripe tomatoes, grate them on a coarse grater, then 
strain through a wire sieve, throwing away the skins and seed. 
Then put the liquid in a cotton bag and let it drip for twenty- 
four hours. Take the residuum and thin to the proper consis- 
tency with vinegar. Then season it to your taste with garlic, 
salt, pepper, and spices. — Mrs. A. A. 

Tomato Catsup. 
One-half bushel tomatoes stewed sufficiently to be strained 



296 COLD TOMATO OATSTTP TOMATO CATSUP. 

through a colander ; to every gallon of pulp add three quarts 
strong vinegar, two tablespoonfuls salt, four tablespoonfuls 
grated horseradish, one pound brown sugar, three large onions 
chopped fine, one tablespoonful black peppei*. Boil till quite 
thick.— Jlfrs. C. B. 

Gold Tomato Gatswp. 

\ peck ripe tomatoes. 

■J- gallon vinegar. 

1 teacup salt. 

1 teacup mustard, ground fine, 

4 pods red pepper. 

3 tablespoonfuls black pepper. 

A handful celery-seed. 

1 cup horseradish. 
All of the ingredients must be cut fine, and mixed cold. Put 
Ln bottles, cork, and seal tight. It is better kept awhile. — 
Mrs. P. 

Tomato Catmjup. 
1 gallon pulp of tomatoes. 

1 tablespoonful ginger. 

2 tablespoonfuls cloves. 

1 tablespoonful black pepper. 

2 tablespoonfuls grated horseradish. 
2 tablespoonfuls salt. 

I" gallon vinegar. 
Boil all well together, then add three pounds sugar, and boil 
awhile. — Mrs. M. 8. C. 

Tomato Catsup. 

Put into a preserving kettle about one pint water, fill up the 

kettle with ripe i-ed tomatoes, previously washed and picked, 

with the skins on, cover closely, and set on a hot fire ; frequently 

stLrring that they may not stick to the bottom. Boil about one 



OTJCtlMBEE OATSTTP. 2fl7 

hour. Turn into a ■wooden, tray ; when cool enough, rub through 
a coarse sieve, through which neither skin nor seed can pass. 
Measure five quarts of this pulp, and boil until very thick, then 
add two tablespoonfuls horseradish, two tablespoonfuls white 
mustard-seed, two tablespoonfuls celery-seed, two tablespoon- 
fuls black pepper beaten fine, two or three races of ginger 
beaten fine, three or four onions chopped fine, a little garlic, 
one nutmeg, salt and sugar to the taste. 

Stir all in, and let it come to a boil. Pour in one quart 
dtrong cider vinegar. Let it boil up once more, and take ofi' the 
fire. Bottle, cork, and seal. — Mrs. S. T. 

Cucumber CATSif. 
Pare and grate the cucumbers. To one quart of cucumbers 
add three large onions grated, one teaspoonful salt, one tea- 
spoonful pepper, and as much vinegar as cucumbers. Exclude 
the air. — Mrs. L. P. 

Cucwmber Catsup. 

Grate three cucumbers ; one onion, one pint of vinegar, one 
tablespoonful black pepper, one tablespoonful salt, one tea- 
spoonful pounded celery-seed. 

Put the catsup in bottles, with large mouths ; as the cucum- 
ber settles, and is hard to get out. — Mrs. H. T. 

Gucumher Catsup. 
Chop three dozen large cucumbers and eight white onions, 
fine as possible, or grate them. Sprinkle over them three- 
fourths of a pint of salt, one-half teacup ground pepper ; before 
seasoning, drain off all the water through a sieve ; mix well 
with good vinegar, and bottle. — Mrs. JP. W. 

Cuawmher Catsup. 

One dozen cucumbers, four large onions, four tablespoonfuls 
salt, four tea.spoonfuls black pepper, one quart strong vinegar. 
Grate onions and cucumbers. — Mrs, H. D. 



298 walnut catsttp — to make catsup from leavkb. 

Walnut Catsup, 

To one gallon vinegar : 

Add 100 walnuts pounded. 

2 tablespoonfiils salt. 

A handful horseradish. 

1 cup mustard-seed, bruised. 

1 pint eschalots, cut fine. 

^ pint garlic. 

^ pound allspice. 

J pound black pepper. 

A tablespoonful ginger. 
If you like, you can add cloves, mace, sliced ginger, and sliced 
nutmeg. Put all these in a jug, cork tightly, shake well, and 
set it out in the sun for five or six days, remembering to shake 
it well each day. Then boil it for fifteen minutes, and when 
nearly cool, strain, bottle, and seal the bottles. — Mrs. A. C. 

Walnut Catsup. 
Take forty black walnuts that you can stick a pin through ; 
mash and put them in a gallon of vinegar, boil it down to three 
quarts and strain it. Then add a few cloves of garlic or onion, 
with any kind of spice you like, and salt. When cool, bottle 
it. Have good corks. — Miss E. T. 

To make Catsup of Walnuts. 
Bruise the walnuts (when large enough to pickle) in a mor- 
tar ; strain off the liquor and let it stand till it be clear ; to every 
quart thus cleared add one ounce of allspice, one ounce black 
pepper, one ounce ginger bruised fine. Boil the whole about 
half an hour; then add one pint best vinegar, one ounce salt, 
eight eschalots, or one ounce horseradish. Let it stand to cool ; 
then strain it again, and bottle for use. — Mrs. M. P. 

To make Walnut Catsvp from the Leaves. 
Provide a jar that will hold about three gallons. Mix the 
following ingredients : common salt one pound, one-half ounce 



BAT SAtrCE — MUSHEOOM OATBtJP. 299 

powdered cloves, four ounces powdered ginger, one handful gar 
lie sliced, six pods bruised red pepper, three liandfuls horse- 
radish root, sliced. Gather the young leaves from the walnut — 
cut them small. Put a layer at the bottom of the jar; then 
sprinkle on some of the ingredients, and so on with alternate 
layers, until the jar is packed full. Let the whole remain in 
this state one night. Then fill with boiling vinegar, tie it closely, 
and let it set in the sun for a fortnight. Then press out the 
li ,uor, strain and bottle. — Mrs. E. W. 

JBay SaVfCe. 

Get young walnut leaves while tender. Make a mixture of 
the following ingredients : one quart salt, one handful horse- 
radish, one-half dozen onions chopped up, two teaspoonfuls all- 
spice, one tablespoonful black groixnd pej)per. 

Put in a layer of the leaves, and then one of the mixture, so 
on till the jar is nearly filled ; cover with good cold vinegar. 
Put it in the sun for a fortnight, then bottle. It will not be 
good for use until it is six months old. 

This is an excellent sauce for fish. It will improve it to add 
a tablespoonful of ground ginger. — Mrs. E. G. &. 

Sa/y Sauce. 
One pound salt, one-half ounce cloves, four ounces ginger, all 
powdered; three handfuls garlic, three handfuls horseradish 
scraped fine, six pods of red pepper cut up fine. Gather leaves 
of black walnut when young, cut them up fine ; put a layer of 
leaves in the bottom of a jar, then one of ingredients (mixed 
together), until the jar is filled ; tie it up closely and set it in 
the sun for two weeks ; then bottle for use. It is not good for 
six months. Some think two or three large onions an addi- 
tion. — Mrs. H. D. 

Mushroom Catsup. 

Take the largest mushrooms, cut ofi' the roots, put them in a 
stone jar, with salt; mash them and cover the jar. Let them 



300 MUSHROOM SAUCE — MUSHROOM CATSUP. 

stand two days, stirring them several times a day ; then strain 
and boil the liquor, to every quart of which put one teaspoonful 
whole pepper, cloves, mustard-seed, a little ginger ; when cold 
bottle it, leaving room in each bottle for one teacupful strong 
vinegar, and one tablespoonful brandy. 
Cork and seal. — Mrs. C 

Mushroom Scmce. 

After peeling, lay them on the oyster broiler and sprinkle 
with a little salt. Have ready a hot dish with butter, pepper, 
salt, and cream, and throw the mushrooms into this as they are 
taken from the broiler. A very nice sauce for steaks. — Mrs. 
J.S. 

MusHEOOM Catsup. 

Break one peck large mushrooms into a deep earthen pan. 
Strew three-quarters pound salt among them, and set them one 
night in a cool oven, with a fold of clotli or paper over them. 
Next day strain off the liquor, and to each quart add one ounce 
black pepper, one-quarter ounce allspice, one-half ounce ginger, 
two large blades mace. 

Boil quickly twenty minutes. When perfectly cold, put into 
bottles, and cork well, and keep in a cool place. — Mr, J. JB. N. 

Mushroom Catsup. 

Pack the mushrooms in layers, with salt, in a jar ; let them 
stand three hours, then pound them in a mortar, return them 
to the jar and let them remain three or four days, stirring them 
occasionally. 

For every quart of the liquor add, one ounce of pepper, hali 
ounce allspice; set the jar in the kettle of water, and boil four 
hours, then pour the liquor through a fine sieve, and boil until 
it is reduced one-half. 

Let it cool and bottle. — Mrs. G. G. 



hoesekadi8h sauce peppek sauce. 301 

Horseradish Sauce. 
Five tablespoonfuls scraped or grated horseradish, two tea- 
Bpooufuls sugar, one teaspoonful salt, half teaspoouful pepper, 
one tablespoonful mixed mustard, one tablespoonful vinegar, 
four tablespoonfuls rich sweet cream. Must be prepared just 
before using. — Mrs. S. T. 

Sorseradish Sauce. 
Just before dinner, scrape one teacup of horseradish, add one 
teaspoonful white sugar, one saltspoonful salt, and pour over 
two tablespoonfuls good cider vinegar. It is best when just 
made. 

Celery Vinegar. 

Pound a gill of celery-seed, put in a bottle and fill with strong 
vinegar. Shake it every day for two weeks, then strain it, and 
keep it for use. It will flavor very pleasantly with celery. — 
Mrs. Dr. J". 

Celery Vinegar. 

Take two gills celery-seed, pound and put it iu a celery bot- 
tle, and fill it with sharp vinegar. Shake it every day for two 
weeks ; then strain it, and keep it for use. It will impart an 
agreeable flavor to everything in which celery is used. Mint 
and thyme may be prepared in the same way, using vinegar or 
brandy. The herbs .should not remain in the liquid more than 
twenty-four hours. They should be placed in a jar — a handful 
is enough, and the vinegar or brandy poured over them ; take 
out the herbs next day, and put iu fresh. Do this for three 
days; then strain, cork, and seal. — Mrs. M. 

Pepper Sauce. 
2 dozen peppers. 
Twice this quantity of cabbage. 
1 root of horseradish, cut up fiue. 
1 tablespoonful mustard-seed. 
1 dessertspoonful cloves. 



S02 PEPPEK SAUCE — TARTAN SAUCE. 

2 tablesponfuls sugar. 
A little mace. 
Boil the spices and sugar in two quai-ts of best cider vinegar, 
and pour boiling hot over the cabbage and pepper. — Mrs. W. 
A.S. 

Pepper Vinegar. 
One dozen pods red pepper, fully ripe. Take out stems and 
cut them in two. Add three pints vinegar. Boil down to one 
quait; strain through a sieve, and bottle for use. — Mrs. Dr. J". 

Red Pepper Catsup. 
To four dozen fine ripe bell-peppers add two quarts good 
vinegar, one quart water, three tablespoonfuls grated horserad- 
ish, five onions chopped fine. Boil till soft, and rub tlirough a 
sieve. Then season to your taste with salt, spice, black and 
white mustard well beaten ; after which boil ten minutes. Add 
celery-seed if liked, and a pod or more strong pepper, a little 
sugar. All should be cut up and the seed boiled with it. Bot- 
tle and cork tightly. — Mrs. G. JV. 

Caper Sauce. 
Stir in melted butter two large tablespoonfuls capers, a little 
vinegar. Nasturtiums pickled, or cucumbers cut very fine will 
be good substitutes for the capers. For boiled mutton. — Mrs. 
R. 

Gaper Sauce. 

To one cup drawn butter add three tablespoonfuls green 
pickled capers. If prepared for boiled mutton, use half teacup- 
ful of the water in which it was boiled ; add salt and cayenne 
pepper. Let it boil up once and serve. — Mrs. S. T. 

Tartan Sauce. 
One mustardspoon of mixed mustard, salt and cayenne to the 
taste, the latter highly. 



MOECAJSt's TA-RTAK SAUCE TO MIX MUSTAED. 303 

Yolk of one raw egg, sweet-oil added very slowly, until the 
quantity is made that is desired ; thin with a little vinegar. 

Take two small cucumber pickles, two full teaspoonfuls capers, 
three small sprigs parsley, and one small shaleot or leek. Chop 
all fine, and stir into the sauce about an hour before serving. 
If very thick, add a tablespoonful cold water. This quantity 
will serve eight persons — is good with trout, veal cutlets, and 
oysters. — Miss £J. tS. 

Moruak's Taktan Sauce. 

Put into a bowl one spoonful of dry mustard, two spoonfuls 
salt, a little cayenne pepper, yolk of one raw egg ; mix these 
together. 

Then add, drop by drop, one teacupful sweet-oil ; stir until 
a thick mass. Add a little vinegar. Chop very fine two small 
cucumber pickles, two teaspoonfuls ca^jers, two sprigs parsley, 
one leek or small onion, and a little celery ; stir all into the 
dressing. This is delicious with boiled fish, either hot or cold — 
also cold meats, chicken or turkey. — Mrs. S. 

Aromatic Mustard. 

4 tablespoonful s ground mustard. 

1 tablespoonful flour. 

1 tablespoonful sugar. 

1 teaspoonful salt. 

1 teaspoonful black pepper. 

1 teaspoonful cloves. 

1 teaspoonful cinnamon. 
Mix smoothly with boiling vinegar, add a little salad oil, and 
let it stand several hours before using. It will keep any length 
of time.— Jffr. R. IT. M. 

To Mix Mustard. 
Take half a cup ground mustard, one tablespoonful sugar, 
four tablespoonful s vinegar, olive oil, or water, whichever ia 
preferred, one teaspoonful pepper, and one of salt.— Mrs. P. W. 



304 OAKB. 



CAKE. 



Before commencing to make cake, be sure that you have all 
the ingredients in the house, and all the implements at hand, 
such as trays, bowls, large dishes, large strong iron spoons, egg- 
beaters, etc. 

Use none but the best family flour in making cake. It is a 
good plan to sift it before weighing or measuring it, and to let 
it air and sun several hours before using it ; as this makes it 
much lighter. 

It is a great mistake to set aside rancid or indifferent butter 
for cake-making. The butter xised for the purpose should be 
good and fresh. 

Always use granulated sugar or else powdered loaf or cut 
sugar; as pulverized sugar is apt to have plaster of Paris or 
other foreign elements in it. Never use brown or even clarified 
sugar in cake-making, unless it be for gingerbread. 

Do not attempt to make cake without fresh eggs. Cream of 
tartar, soda and yeast powders are poor substitutes for these. 

A fresh egg placed in water will sink to the bottom. 

In breaking eggs, do not break them over the vessels in which 
they are to be beaten. Break tiiem, oue by one, over a saucer, 
so that if you come across a defective one, you will not spoil 
the rest by mixing it with them ; whereas, if it is a good one, 
it will be easy to pour the white from Dhe saucer into the bowl 
with the rest of the whites, and to add the yolk which you re- 
tain in the egg-shell to the other yolks. 

The Dover egg-beater saves much time and trouble in beat- 
ing eggs and will beat the yolks into as stiff a froth as the 
flfhites. It is well to have two egg-beaters, one for the yolks 
and the other for the whites. Eggs well beaten ought to be as 
stiff' as batter. Cool the dishes that you are to use in beating 
eggs. In summer, keep the eggs on ice before using them, and 



WHITE OAKB-— SUPERIOR WHITE CAKE. 305 

always try to make the cake before breakfast, or as early in the 
morniag as possible. 

Some of the best housewives think it advisable to cream the 
butter and flour together, and add the sugar to the yolks when 
these are whipped to a stiff froth, as it produces yellow specks 
when you add the sugar sooner. The whites must always be 
added last. 

In making-fruit cake, prepare the fruit the day before. In 
winter time, this may be easily and pleasantly done after tea. 
It requires a longer time to bake fruit cake, than plain. Every 
housekeeper should have a close cake-box in which to put cake 
after cooling it and wrapping it in a thick napkin. 

White Cake. 
The whites of 20 eggs. 
1 pound of flour. 
1 pound of butter. 
1 pound of almonds. 
Use a little more flour, if the almonds are omitted. — Mrt. 
Dr. S. 

"White Cake. 
1 cup of butter. 
3 cups of sugar. 
1 cup of sweet milk. 
The whites of 5 eggs. 
3 cups of flour. 

3 teaspoonfuls cream of tartar. 
1 teaspoonful of soda. — Mrs. D. G. K. 

Superior White Cake. 

1 pound sugar. 

The whites of 10 eggs. 

} pound butter. 

I pound of flour. 
26 



306 LBIGHTON OAKB ^WHITB MOUNTAIN OAKK. 

Flavor with lemon or rose-water, and bake in a ni. 
oxen.— Mrs. F. G. W. 

Leighton Cake. 
1 pint butter. 

1 pint cream. 

2 pints sugar. 
4 pints flour. 

2 teaspoonfuls essence of almonds. 

The whites of 12 eggs. 

2 teaspoonfuls yeast powder, mixed in flour. — Mrs. N. 

White Mountain Cake. 
4 cups flour. 
1 cup butter. 
3 cups sugar, creamed with the butter. 

1 cup sweet milk. 

2 small teaspoonfuls cream of tartar. 
1 small teaspoonful of soda. 
Whites of 10 eggs beaten vei-y light. 

Bake in jelly-cake pans ; when cold, make an icing of whites 
of three eggs and one pound of sugar. Grate cocoanut over 
each layer of icing. — Mrs. P. Mc G. 

White Mountain Cake. 
1 pound sugar. 
•J- pound butter, 
f pound of flour. 

1 large teaspoonful essence of bitter almonds. 
Whites of 10 eggs, whipped very stifi'. 
Cream butter and sugar, put next the eggs, then the flour, 
lastly the flavoring. — Mrs. D. C. K. 

White Mountain Cake. 
Make four or five thicknesses of cake, as for jelly cake 
Grate one large cocoanut. The juice and grated rind of two 



WHITE MOUNTAIN OAKE SNOW MOUNTAIN OAKli;. 307 

lemjiis or oranges. The whites of six eggs beaten very light, 
with one pound sugar. To this add the milk of one cocoanut, 
then rind and juice of one orange. Lastly, stir in the cocoanut 
well, and put between the cakes as you would jelly. — Mrs. J'. L. 

W/i ite Mountain (Jake. 

1 pound flour. 

1 pound sugar. 

|- pound butter. 

Whites of 16 eggs. 

Wine-glass of wine or brandy. 

Bake in flat pans. 

Grate two cocoanuts. Beat the whites of four or five eggs 

to a stiff froth, and udx as much suijar as for icing. Stir in the 

cocoanut; spread between each layer of the cake, as jelly cake. 

Ice it all, or only on top, or not at all, as you please. — Mrs. M. 

Mountain Cake. 
The whites of 8 eggs. 

1 cup of butter. 

2 cups of sugar. 

3 cups of flour. 

^ cup sweet milk. 

] teaspoonful of cream of tartar. 

\ teaspoonful of soda. 
Mix all the ingredients well, and flavor with lemon. Bake in 
very shallow pans. Ice each cake separately and cover with 
jelly; then form a large cake, and ice over. — Mrs. Dr. H. 

Snow Mountain Oakk. 
1 cup of butter. 

3 cups of sugar, creamed together. 
1 cup of sweet cream. 

1 teaspoonful cream of tartar and ^teaspoon of soda, spzdnkied 
iu 3^- cups of sifted flour. 
Whites of 10 eggs. 



308 BNOW OAKE — MOUNTAIN ASH OAEE. 

Bake in thin cakes as for jelly cakes. Ice and sprinkle 
each layer with grated cocoanut. 

Take the whites of three eggs for the icing, and grate one 
cocoanut. — Mrs. C. M. A. 

Snow Cake. 

Whites of 10 eggs, 
lij- cups of sugar. 

1 cup of flour. 

2 teaspoons of cream of tartar. 
Salt. 

Flavoring. 
Rub the flour, cream tartar, sugar, and salt, well together. 
Add the eggs beaten light, and stir only sufficient to mix very 
lightly.— Jfrs. G. P. 

White Mountain Ash Cake. 
1 pound white sugar. 
1 teacup of butter. 
^ teacup sweet milk. 
Whites of 10 eggs. 
^ small teaspoonfvd of soda. 
1 teaspoonful cream tartar. 

3 cups of flour. 

Flavor with vanilla or almond. 
Bake in jelly-cake pans, with icing and cocoanut between. 
Icing for cake. — One pound fine white sugar, and whites of 
three eggs. — Miss JS. I*. 

Mountain Ash Oaeb. 
The whites of 8 eggs. 

1 cap of butter. 

2 cups of sugar. 

3 cups of floTir. 

i cup of sweet milk. 



bride's oake. 309 

■J- teaspoonful of soda. 
1 teaspoonful cream of tartar. 
Mix all the ingredients well, and flavor with lemon. 
Bake in shallow pans ; ice each cake separately and cover 
with jelly, then form a large cake and ice over. — Mrs. P. 

Bride's Cake. 

1 pound flour. 

f pounds sugar. 

J- pound butter. 

Whites of 14 eggs. 
Cream sugar and butter together, and stir in them flour and 
beaten whites, very Httle at a time ; one and a half pounds 
fruit, prepared and mixed with batter, will make a nice fruit 
cake. — Mrs. S. D. 

Brides Cake. 

Whites of 18 eggs. 

\\ pounds sugar. 

1 pound flour. 

f- pound butter. 

Cream butter and sugar together ; whip the eggs to a stifl 
froth, then add gradually, flour, butter, sugar. 

Season with lemon or brandy. Bake as pound cake.— Jl/r*. 
B.E. 

Bridge Cake. 

1^ pounds flour, 
1^ pounds sugar. 
1^ pounds butter. 
Whites of 20 eggs. 

-^ a teaspoon of powdered ammonia dissolved in ^ a wineglass 
of brandy. 

Heavy plain icing, 1^ pound mould. 

Insert the ring after the cake is baked. — Miaa S. 



310 BEIDe's cake SILVEK CAKE. 

Brides Cake. 
f pound flour. 
■J- pound butter. 
14 whites of eggs. 
1 pound sugar — beat in the whites. 
The acid of 1 green lemon. 
Double for one and a half pound cake. — Mrs. J". 

Silver Cake. 
Whites of 8 eggs. 
J pound of butter. 
^ pound of sugar. 
^ and -^ a quarter of a pound of sifted flour, or 6 ounces of 

flour. 
Cream the butter and sugar. — Mrs. W. 0. R. 

Silver Cake. 
1 pound powdered sugar 
f pound flour. 
^ pound butter. 
Whites of 11 eggs. 

1 teaspoonful essence of bitter almond. 
Cream the butter, gradually rub in the flour, then the sugar ; 
add the flavoring ; last of all, stir in the whites of the eggs 
beaten to a stiff froth. Flavor the icing with vanilla or bitter 
almonds. — Mrs. S. T. 

Silver Cake. 

One cup sugar. 
■^ cup butter. 
1^ cups flour. 
■| cup of milk. 

^ teaspoon of cream tartar, and half as much soda 
Whites of 4 eggs. 
Beat the butter and eggs to a cream, then add the milk and 
flour with the soda and cream tartar ; whisk the whites of the 



GOIJ) CAKE — LADY CAKE. oil 

eggs to a froth, and stir them in gently at the last. Flavor with 
lemon. — Mrs. 0. 

GrOLD Cake. 

1 pound flour. 

1 pound sugar. 

f pound butter. 

Yolks of 11 eggs. 

Grated rind of an orange. 

Juice of 2 lemons. 

1 teaspoonful soda. 
Cream the butter well, rub into it the flour. Beat the yolks 
well, put in the sugar, and beat again ; add the orange rind and 
lemon j nice. 

Mix all together, and beat for ten minutes. Last of all, sift 
in the soda, stirring it in well. Requires two hours to bake in 
one pound cake-mould. Flavor the icing with lemon. — Mrs. 

S. T. 

Angel's Cake. 

Whites of 8 eggs, well beaten. 

1 cup of butter. 

2 cups of sugar. 

3 cups of flour. 

1 teaspoonful cream of tartat. 
^ teaspoonful of soda, dissolved in ^ cup of milk. 
Mix in this way ; add the sugar to the eggs, then the butter 
well creamed, then the flour and milk alternately. Season to 
taste. Bake thin, and spread icing between, on the top and 
sides, sprinkling grated cocoanut over the whole. — Mrs. G. 

La«y Cake. 
] pound sugar. 
^ pound of flour, 
6 ounces of butter. 
The whites of 14 eggs. 
Season with two drops oil of bitter almond. — Miss 8. 



312 LADY OAKE— MEEET 0HEI8TMA0 OAKE. 

Lady Cake. 
The whites of 8 eggs, beaten to a froth. 
3 cups flour. 
2 cups of sugar. 
1 cup of butter, creamed with the sugar. 

1 teaspoonful cream of tartar in the flour. 
•J- teaspoonful of soda in ■^ cup sweet milk. 

Beat all together, and bake in a mould or small pans. Season 
to laste. A little whisky or rum improves cake of all kinds. — 
M'^ ». Dr. G. 

Delicate Cake. 

2 cups white sugar. 
2^ cups com starch. 

8 tablespoonfiils butter. 
Whites of 8 eggs. 

\ teaspoonful soda, dissolved in milk. 
^ teaspoonful cream tartar in com starch. 
Flavor with juice of one lemon. — Mrs. JR. H. 

Delicate Cake. 
One pound pulverized white sugar, seven ounces of butter 
(stirred to a cream). 

Whites of 16 eggs, beaten stiff. 
Stir in 1 pound of sifted flour. 
Flavor to the taste. Bake immediately. — Mrs. A. H. 

Mebrt Ohristuas Cake. 
2 cups sugar. 

1 cup com starch. 

2 cups flour. 

1 cup butter. 

•J- cup sweet milk. 
Whites of 8 eggs. 

2 teaspoonfuls baking powder. 

8«ke in jelly-cake pans. Between each layer when done, on 



OOBN STABOH OAKB WHITE FKUIT CAKE. 313 

sides and top, spread icing, with grated cocoanut. A very 
pretty dish. — Mrs. McG-. 

Corn Starch Cakb. 

1 cup butter. 

2 cups sugar. 

1^ cups com starch. 

2 cups flour. 

1 cup mUk, perfectly sweet. 

^ teaspoonfiil soda. 

^ teaspoonful cream tartar. 
Beat the sugar and butter together. Dissolve the soda and 
com starch in the milk; put the cream tartar in the flour. 
Mbc these well, and then add the whites of eight eggs well beaten. 
—Mrs. 8. 

White Fruit Cake. 

1 pound sugar. 

1 pound flour. 

1 pound butter. 

1 pound blanched almonds. 

3 pounds citron. 

1 cocoanut. 

Whites of 16 eggs. — Mrs. Dr. J. 

White Prmt Cake. 

1 pound pulverized sugar. 

f pound butter. 

Whites of 12 eggs, beaten very light. 

1 pound flour. 

2 grated cocoanuts. 

2 pounds citron, cut in small pieces. 
2 pounds blanched almonds, cut in thin sUces. 
Bake slowly. 

27 



314 WHITK FRTTIT CAKB BLACK CAKE. 

White Fruit Cake. 
Whites of 16 eggs, beaten well. 
8 ounces butter. 
1 pound flour. 
1 pound sugar. 
1 teacup citron. 
1 cup almonds. 
3 cups grated cocoanut. 
The citron and almonds to be cut and blanched, of coui'se. 

White Fruit Cake [superior, tried redpe~[. 
1 pound white sugar. 

1 pound flour. 
^ pound butter. 
Whites of 12 eggs. 

2 pounds citron, cut in thin, long strips. 

2 pounds almonds, blanched and cut in strips. 

1 large cocoanut, grated. 
Before the flour is sifted, add to it one teaspoonful of soda, 
two teaspoonfuls cream tartar. Cream the butter as you do for 
pound cake, add the sugar, and beat it awhile ; then add the 
whites of eggs, and flour ; and after beating the batter sufii- 
cieiitly, add about one-third of the fruit, reserving the rest to 
add in layers, as you put the batter in the cake-mould. Bake 
slowly and cai-efuUy, as you do other fruit cake. — Mrs. W. 

Black Cake. 

1;J pounds butter. 

1^ pounds sugar. 

1^ pounds flour. 

1^ dozen eggs. 

2 pounds stoned raisins. 

2 pounds picked and washed currants. 

1 pound sliced citron. 

2 tablespoonfnls pulverized cloves. 



BLACK OAKB. 316 

2 tablespoonfuls nutmeg. 

2 tablespoonfuls mace. 

2 tablespoonfuls cinnamon, 

1 tablespoonful powdered ginger. 

1 teaspoonful salt. 

2 wineglasses of brandy. — Mre. JJ. 

Jilack Cake. 
1^ pounds flour. 
1^ pounds butter. 
1-J pounds sugar. 

1 pound citron. 

2 pounds beaten raisins 

2 pounds sweet raisins, well cut. 
2 poiinds currants. 
The juice and rind of two lemons and two oranges, one tea- 
spoonful of soda ; after the beaten fruit is well beaten, add the 
cut fruit. The citron or orange peel should never be rubbed in 
flour. — Mrs. P. 

Slack Cake. 

Yolks of 24 eggs. 
1 pound butter. 

1 pound sugar. 

Take out a gill of the sugar, and in place put one gill of 
molasses, one pound floiir ; out of it take six tablespoonfuls, 
and in f lace put five spoonfuls of seconds, and one of corn meal. 

4 pounds seedless raisins. 

•^ pound citron. 

■^ pound currants. 

■J- pound almonds and palm nuts. 

2 ounces grated cocoanut. 
2 ounces fine chocolate. 

1 tablespoonful finely ground cofi'ee. 

i tablespoonful allspice, mace, aiid cloves. 

1 tablespoonful vanilla. 



rflB FEUIT OAKB WITH 8PIOE8 ^FEUIT OAKB. 

1 gill blackberry wine, or brandy. 

1 teaspoonful soda. 

2 teaspoonfuls cream tartar. 

Bake the mass six hours very moderately. — Mn J. 

Fruit Cake with Spices. 

1 pound butter. 

1 pound sugar. 

1 pound flour. 

1 dozen eggs. 

Mix as for pound cake. 

Add 1 pound almonds. 

1 pound raisins. 

\ pound citron. 

1 ounce mace. 

1 ounce cloves. 

1 oiince allspice. — Mrs. A, G. 

Fruit Cake. 

2 pounds best stoned raisins. 
2 pounds currants. 
1 pound citron. 
12 eggs. 

1 pound fresh butter. 
1 pound loaf sugar. 
1 pound flour. 
Make the batter as you would for nice cake, and before add- 
ing the fruit, stir into the batter — 

4J teaspoonfuls cream of tartar. 

1 ^ teaspoonful soda. 

1 large tablespoonful of ground cinnamon. 

1 small tablespoonful of white ginger. 

4J nutmegs. 

1 tablespoonful of best molasses. 



FEUrr OAKE. iin 

Add by degrees the &uit and one-half teacup best brai dy ; 
bake alowly five hours. Excellent, and will keep good b\x 
months. — Mrs. F. 

Frmt Cake. 
18 eggs. 

1^ poiinds flour. 
\\ pounds sugar. 
l-J- pounds butter. 
2 pounds raisins. 

2 pounds currants, washed and picked. 
1^ pounds citron. 
2 nutmegs. 

2 pounds almonds, weighed in shell. 
2 tablespoonfuls cinnamon. 
2 tablespoonfuls mace. 
1 small teaspoonful cloves, 

1 small teaspoonful salt. 

2 teaspoonfuls ginger. 
2 wine-glasses of wine. 
1 wine-glass of bi-andy. 

1 teaspoonful soda. 

2 teaspoonfuls cream of tartar, in a cup of milk. 

Let it rise about three hours, then bake slowly, and let i< 
stand a good while after it is baked, in the oven. — Mrs. G. B. 

Frmt Cake. 
2^ pounds butter. 
2^ pounds flour. 
25 eggs. 

2^ pounds sugar. 
3 pounds citron. 
5 pounds currants. 
5 pounds raisins. 
A large spoonful cinnamon. 



318 FETJIT CAKE — EIOH FK0IT CAKB. 

1 spoonful vaaxie. 
4 nutmegs. 
A glass wine. 
A glass brandy. 
This will make a very large cake. — Mrs, A. J*. 

Fruit Cake. 

1^ pound risen dough. 

10 eggs. 

2 cups butter. 

4 cups sugar. 

1 cup milk. 

1 cup wine, or brandy. 

1 light teaspoonful soda. 

1 teaspoonful lemon extract. 

■^ teaspoonful cloves. 
Beat these ingredients together and add one pound of stoned 
raisins, one pound of citron dredged in flour. 

If very soft for cake, add a little flour. — Mrs. e/". W. 

Rich Fruit Cake. 
1 quart of sifted flour. 

1 pound of fresh butter, cut up in 1 pound powdered sugar. 
12 eggs. 

3 pounds of bloom raisins. 
1-J- pound of Zante currants, 
f- pound of sliced citron. 

1 tablespoonful each of mace and cinnamon. 

2 nutmegs. 

1 large wineglassful Madeira wine. 

1 large wineglassful French brandy mixed with the spices. 

Beat the butter and sugar together — eggs separately. Flour 
the fioiit well, and add the flour and other ingredients, putting 
the fruit in last. Bake in a straight side mould, as it turns 



FBUIT CAKE OBANGE CAKE. 319 

out easier. One pound of blanched almonds will improve this 
recipe. Bake until thoroughly done, then ice while warm. — 
Mrs. L. 

Fruit Cake. 

1 pound sugar. 

1 pound flour. 

1 pound butter. 

2 pounds i-aisins. 

2 pounds currants. 

1 pound citron. 

2 tablespoonfuls of mace and cinnamon. 
2 nutmegs, powdered. 

\ pint of brandy and wine, mixed. 
Bake in a slow oven. Seedless raisins are best for cake. — 
Mrs. F. O. W. 

Pineapple, or Orange Cake. 

1 cup of butter. 
3 cups sugar. 

5 eggs, beaten separately. 

3^ cups flour. 

•^ cup sweet milk. 

2 teaspoonfuls cream of tai-tar. 
1 teaspoonful soda. 

Bake in jelly-cake tins, four or five deep. Have ready 
a thick icing, which put on the cakes as thickly as will stick ; 
spread thickly on that the grated pineapple, or orange, the icing 
to be flavored with the juice of the fruit and a little tartaric 
acid. — Mrs. G. C. 

Orange Cake. 

Bake sponge cake in jelly-cake pans, three for each cake. 
Spread an icing between the cakes, made of whites of three eggs, 
beaten very light, and one and one-quarter pounds powdered 
sugar. 

The rind and juice of one large, or two small oranges. 



320 OBANGE OAKE LEMON CAKE. 

The rind and juice of one-half lemon ; the other half to be 
used for the cake. — Mrs. P. Mc G. 

Orange Cake. 
8 eggs. 

1^ pounds sugar. 
1^ pounds flour, 
f pound butter. 

1 pint milk. 

2 teaspoonfuls cream tartar. 
1 teaspoonful soda. 

Beat the eggs very light, and mix in the sugar and creamed 
butter. Pour in half the milk, and dissolve the cream tartar 
and soda in the other half Add the sifted flour as quickly as 
possible after the foaming milk is poured in. Bake in jelly- 
cake pans. 

Take six oranges, grate the peel and squeeze the juice with 
two pounds pulverized sugar. If you use sweet oranges, add the 
juice of two lemons. After stirring to a smooth paste, spread 
between the layers of the cake. Ice, or sprinkle over sugar the 
last layer on top of the cake. — Mrs. J". G. W. 

Ora/nge Cake. 
First make a sponge cake with twelve eggs, the weight of 
twelve eggs in sugar, and weight of ten in flour. Then make 
an icing of the whites of two eggs, the juice of one lemon, and 
the juice and grated rind of two oranges ; add sufiicient pow- 
dered sugar to make the proper consistency for icing — then put 
between each cake, and on top of the whole cake. — Mrs. C. B. 

Lemon Oake. 
1 cupful butter. 
3 cupfuls white sugar. 
5 eggs beaten separately. 
Cream butter and sugar together. 



1 teaspoonful soda. 
1 cup milk. 

The juice and grated rind of one lemon. 
5 small teacupfuls flour. 
Bake in small or shallow tins. — Mrs. G. 

Lemon Cahe. 

One cupful of butter, three cupfuls of white sugar, rubbed to 
a cream. 

Stir iu the yolks of five eggs well beaten, and one teaspoonful 
of soda dissolved in a cupful of milk ; add the whites, and sift 
in as lightly as possible four cupfuls of flour. Add the juice 
and grated peel of one lemon. — Mrs. Dr. 8. 

" Robert E. Lee " Cake. 

Twelve eggs, their full weight in sugar, a half- weight in flour. 
Bake it in pans the thickness of jelly cakes. Take two pounds 
of nice " A " sugar, squeeze into it the juice of five oranges and 
three lemons together with the pulp ; stir it in the sugar until 
perfectly smooth ; then spread it on the cakes, as you would do 
jelly, putting one above another till the whole of the sugar is 
used up. Spread a layer of it on top and on sides. — Mrs. G. 

"Gen. Robekt Lee" Cake. 

10 eggs. 

1 pound sugar. 

■J- pound flour. 

Rind of 1 lemon, and juice of -J lemon. 
Make exactly like sponge cake, and bake in jelly-cake tins. 
Then take the whites of two eggs beat to a froth, and add one 
pound sugar, the grated rind and juice of one orange, or juice 
of half a lemon. Spread it on the cakes before they are per- 
fectly cold, and place one layer on another. This quantity 
makes two cakes. — Mrs. I. IT. 



322 COCOANUT CAKE — MOUNTAIN COOOANDT CAKE. 

CocoANUT Cake. 
1 teacup fresh butter. 
3 teacups white sugar. 
3^ teacups flour. 
Whites of ten eggs. 
1 cup sweet milk. 

1 light teaspoonful soda. 

2 light teaspoonfuls cream of tartar. 
A little essence of lemon. 

Bake in cakes an inch thick and spread with icing, having 
grated cocoanut stirred in ; pile one on another, allowing a little 
time for drying off. In making the icing, reserve some plain 
for the outside of cake. Finish oflF by sprinkling on the pre- 
pared cocoanut. — Miss P. 

Cocoanut Gdke. 
Beat to a fine cream three-quarters of a pound- of butter and 
half a pound of sugar. Add gradually eight eggs well beaten, 
then mixed, one tablespoonful essence of lemon, one small nut- 
meg, grated ; mix all well together, then stir in lightly half a 
pound flour in turn with half a pound of grated cocoanut. 
Pour the mixture in a well-buttered pan, and bake quickly. — 
Mrs. C. V. McG. 

Mountain Cocoanut Cake. 
Cream together one pound sugar, half a pound butter. Beat 
eight eggs lightly without separating. Stir them gradually 
into the butter and sugar. Sift in one pound of flour, beat all 
light, then put in an even teaspoonful of soda dissolved in half 
a teacupful of sweet milk, two even teaspoonfuls cream of tar- 
tar dissolved in the same quantity of milk. Season with lemon 
or vanilla. For the icing, nine bablespoonfuls of water and 
one pound sugar ; boil until it glistens. Beat the whites 
of four eggs to a stiff froth, stir into the boiling icing, then add 



323 

half a pound of grated cocoanut. Spread the icing between the 
cakes and on the top. — Miss iS. 

Angel's Bread. 
A variety of Oocoanut Cake. 

1 cup butter. 

2 cups sugar. 

3 cups floui-. 
Whites of eight eggs. 
^ cup sweet milk. 

^ teaspoonful soda, 1 teaspoonful cream of tartar, stirred in 
the milk. 

Flavor with vanilla. 

Bake in jelly-cake pans. 

1 grated cocoanut. 

Spread top and bottom of cake with icing, then put on the 
cocoanut, and so on till your cake is large as you wish. Ice 
the whole cake, and sprinkle on cocoanut. Make the icing, 
three whites to one pound of pulverized sugar, with juice of 
one lemon. — Mrs. D. H. 

Clay Cake. 

3 cups sugar. 
1 cup butter. 

4 cups flour, 

1 cup sweet milk. 

6 eggs. 

1 teaspoonful soda in the milk. 

1 teaspoonful cream of tartar in the flour. 
Flavor with vanilla. Bake it in layers. 
Icing for the Calce. — Beat the whites of four eggs into a froth, 
and add nine teaspoonfuls of pulverized sugar to each egg, 
flavoring it with vanilla. Then grate up two large cocoanuts, 
and after icing each layer, sprinkle grated cocoanut on it. Put 
the layers on each other as in making jelly cake. — Mrs. 1. W. 



324 OOOOANTJT 0AKE8. 

Cocoa/nut Cake. 

2 cups powdered sugar. 
^ cup butter. 

3 eggs. 

1 cup milk. 
3 cups flour. 

2 teaspoonfuls cream of tartar, 
1 tea spoonful soda. 

Bake in jelly-cake pans. 

Pilling : one grated cocoanut ; to half-pound of this add the 
whites of three eggs beaten to a froth, one cup of powdered 
sugar ; lay this between the layers of the cake ; mix with the 
other half of the cocoanut four tablespoonfuls powdered sugar, 
and strew thickly on top of the cake. — Mrs. D. G. K. 

One, Two, Three, Fov/r Cocoanut Cake. 

1 cup butter. 

2 cups sugar. 

3 cups flour. 
Whites of 4 eggs. 

1 teaspoonful cream of tartar. 

^ teaspoonful soda. 

■J- small cocoanut, stirred in at the last. — Mrs. D. C. K, 

CocoamMt Cake. 

1 teacup of butter. 
3 teacups of sugar. 
3^ teacups of flour. 
Whites of 10 eggs. 

\ cup sweet milk, with one teaspoon not quite full of soda. 

2 teaspoonfuls cream of tartar. 
Essence of lemon. 

Beat the eggs very light. Cream the butter, then mix the 
ingredients gradually. Sift the cream tartar with the flour, and 
dissolve the soda in the milk, and add to the cake last. Bake 
in pans ; an inch thick when baked. Mix prepared cocoanut 



OHOOOLATE CAEE. 326 

with the icing ; ice the top of the first cake with the cocoaniit 
icing, dry it slightly ; lay another cake on top, and ice again, 
and continue until the last cake is added, then ice all over. 
When the last coat of icing is put on, sprinkle the prepared 
cocoanut all over the cake, to give it a frosted appearance. — 
Mrs. M. S. C. 

Chocoi/Ate Cake. 

1^ pounds grated chocolate. 

12 eggs. 

If pounds brown sugar. 

1 teaspoonful cinnamon. 

1 teaspoonful nutmeg. 

1 teaspoonful cloves. 

A few coriander-seed. 
Break the eggs in the sugar and beat them, adding the choco- 
late by degrees, until well incorporated ; then add the spices, 
all of which must be well powdered. Grease some small tins 
with lard, and bake quickly. — 'Mrs. T. 

Chocolate Cake. 

2 cupfuls sugar. 
1 cupful butter. 

3 cupfuls flour. 

f cupful sour cream or milk. 
3 eggs. 

1 teaspoonful cream tartar. 
^ teaspoonful soda. 
Beat the sugar and butter together ; break the eggs into it 
one at a time ; then add the flour, then the sour cream with tlie 
soda. Bake in jelly-cake pans. 

Filling : two ounces of chocolate, one cupful of sugar, three- 
quarters cup of sweet milk ; boil half-done. — Mrs. F. 

Chocolate Cake. 
3 cupfuls sifted flour. 
1^ cupfuls sugar. 



326 CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

1 cupful sweet milk. 

1 egg. 

2 tablespoonfuls butter. 

1 teaspoonful soda. 

2 teaspoonfuls cream tartar. 
1 teaspoonful essence lemon. 

Beat the butter and sugar to a cream, then add the mDk 
(in which the soda should be dissolved), next the eggs well 
beaten, and lastly the essence. Mix two cupfuls of flour, and 
afterwards the third cupful of flour into which the ci-eam tartar 
has been stirred. Bake in square, flat pans. Grate three 
ounces of chocolate, add four tablespoonfuls of milk; warm 
slowly, and add eight tablespoonfuls of white sugar. Boil three 
minutes, and pour over top of the cake. If you choose, you can 
slice open the cake, and put inside of it a custard of one pint of 
milk, warmed, and two eggs added, with sugar and flour to your 

taste. — Mrs. H. 

Chocolate Cake. 

2 cupfuls sugar. 

1 cupful butter. 

Yolks of 5 eggs and whites of 2. 

1 cupful milk. 

3^ cupfuls flour. 

■J- teaspoonful soda. 

1 teaspoonful cream tartar, sifted in the flour. 
Bake in jelly-cake tins. 

Filling : whites of three eggs, one and a half cupfuls of sugar, 
three tablespoonfuls of grated chocolate, one teaspoonful of 
vanilla. Beat well together ; spread on top and between layers 
of the cake. — Mrs. K. 

Chocolate Cake, 
Cream together one pound sugar, one and a half pounds but- 
ter. Beat eight eggs light without separating ; stir them grad- 
ually into the sugar and butter. Sift in one pound of flour : 



CHOCOLATE JELLY CAKE — CITRON CAKE. 327 

beat all light. Then put in an even teaspoonful of soda dis- 
solved in a half-teaoupful of sweet milk, two even teaspoon- 
fuls ci-eam tartar dissolved in the same quantity of milk. Sea- 
son with lemon or vanilla. Bake in jelly pans.- 

Icing for the same : nine tablespoonfuls of water, one pound 
of sugar ; boil till it glistens. 

Beai' the whites of four eggs to a stiff froth. Stir them into 
the boiling icing, then add one-quarter pound grated chocolate. 

Spread the icing between the cakes and over the top. — 
Miss S. 

Chocolate Jelly Cake. 
Make a sponge cake according to old family recipe, bake 
either in jelly tins or moulds ; then slice the cake for the fol- 
lowing preparation : one teacupful of milk, half a cake Baker's 
chocolate, scraped or grated, one egg beaten with sugar enough 
to make it sweet ; flavor with vanilla. Let it boil (stirring all 
the time) till quite thick. Place it evenly and thickly between 
the slices of cake. Instead of the sponge cake, some use the 
ordinary jelly-cake recipe. — Mrs. JS. 

Citron Cake. 
12 ounces flour. 
12 ounces butter. 
10 eggs. 
1 pound sugar. 

1 pound citron, cut in thin slices. 
Mix like a pound cake. — Mrs. G. L. T. 

Gii/ron Cake. 
4 large coffeecups sifted flour. 
2^ cupfuls powdered siigar. 
1 cupful butter. 

Whites of 10 eggs, beaten to a stiff froth. 
Add two tablespoonfuls rose water. 



328 OITEON CAKE ALMOND OAKB. 

Butter a cake pan, and put alternate layers of batter and cit- 
ron sliced in long, thin slices. — Mrs. Mc G. 

CiPron Gahe. 
1 pound flour. 

1 pound sugar, 
f pound butter. 
12 eggs. 

2 pounds citron. 

2 pounds grated cocoanut. 

2 pounds almonds. 

1 teaspoonful mace. — Mrs. M. E. 

Citron Gahe. 

1 pound of flour. 
■§■ pound of sugar, 
f- pound of butter. 
10 or 12 eggs. 

2 pounds of citron. 
1 cocoanut, grated. 

Fruit to be put in last. — Mrs. Dr. S. 

Almond Cake. 
1^ pounds of sugar. 
1^ pounds of butter^ 
1 pound of flour. 
12 eggs. 
1 pound almonds. — Mrs. S. 

Almond Cake. 
12 eggs. 
1 pound flour. 
1 pound sugar. 
1 pound butter. 



DAEK FIG CAKK -POUND CAKE. 329 

1 pound almonds (blanched). 

1 pound citron. 
Blanch the almonds, and slice the citron thin. 
One wine-glass of brandy. 
Mix like pound cake. — -Mrs. S. T. 

Dark Fig Cake. 

2 cups of sugar. 
1 cup of butter. 

One cup of cold water, with one teaspoonful of soda dissolved 
in it. 

3 cups of raisins, chopped fine. 
Cinnamon and nutmeg. 

4 eggs. 

1 pound of figs. 

Use the figs whole, covering them well with the cake to 
prevent burning. Bake in layers, frosting between each layer. 
Make as stift" as pound cake. Cut with a very sharp knife, 
to prevent crumbling. This recipe makes two loaves. — Mrs. 

A. T. 

CuKRANT Cake, 

1 cup butter. 

2 cups sugar. 

\ cup sweet milk. 
5 eggs. 
4 cups flour. 
\ a nutmeg. 

3 teaspoonfuls baking powder. 

One pound currants washed, dried, and rolled in the flour. — 

Mrs. W. L. H. 

Pound Cake. 

1 pound butter, 
1 pound flour. 
1 pound sugar. 

16 eggs, yolks of 4. 

28 



330 POUND CAKE. 

After the butter is creamed, work the sugar and butter well 
before mixing. — Mrs. M. S. C. 

Pouiid Cake. 

1 pound sugar. 

1 pound butter. 

1 pound of flour. 

12 eggs. 
Cream the butter; rub into it gradually the sifted and dried 
flour. Beat the yolks of ten eggs very light, then add the 
powdered sugar, beat again, add a wine-glass of brandy or 
one of good whiskey flavored with nutmeg, or the grated rind 
of a lemon ; mix all together. Stir in the whites of twelve eggs 
beaten to a stiff froth, just before baking. It will take two 
hours to bake. — Mrs. S. T. 

Povmd Cake. 
1 pound flour. 
1 pound of sugar, 
f pound of butter. 
10 eggs. 
Cream the butter well with flour ; beat the yolks well, and add, 
by degrees, the butter and flour, and then the whites beaten to a 
stiff froth. Season with mace and one glass of wine. Bake in 
cups well greased. For fruit cake add to above, two pounds 
of raisins, two pounds of currants, one-half a pound of citron, 
stirred in by degrees. Add nutmeg and cinnamon to the sea- 
soning. One pound of butter, and one dozen eggs for fruit 
cake. — Mrs. A. 0. 

Pound Cake. 

Beat the whites of twelve eggs to a stiff froth. The yolks 
beat until they look light and white ; then beat in one pound 
of sugar ; next add the whites ; cream the light pound of butter 
until it looks frothy ; then sift in by degrees one pound of flour 
and cream them together, and add the other mixture. Put a 



VERT DELICATE POCNU OAK.K BUTTEE SPONGE CAKE. 331 

little powdered mace, if you like, a wine-glass of wine, and the 
same of brandy. — Mrs. W. 

Very Delicate Pound Cake. 
16 eggs, 4 yolks. 
1 pound of flour. 
1 pound of sugar, 
f pound of butter.— Jfr*. S. T. 

Superior Pound Cake. 
1 pound of white sugar. 
\ pound of butter. 
1 pound of flour. 
Whites of 12 eggs, yolks of 9. 
Cream the butter ; add part of the sugar and yolks, and beat 
well ; then gradually add the whites, and flour and balance of 
yolks. Beat well, flavor with extract of lemon, and bake in 
a moderate oven. — Mrs. F. G. W. 

Pound Cahe. 
1 pound flour. 

I pound sugar, 
f pound butter. 

II eggs. 

Sift and dry the flour, sifb the sugar ; wash all the salt out oi 
the butter, and squeeze all the water out of it. Cream the but- 
ter with half the flour or more ; beat the whites and yolks sep- 
arately, beating rather more than half of the sugar with the 
yolks; then rub the remaining sugar and flour up together. 
Mix all these ingredients, part at a time, first one, then another. 
Beat well, and season with French brandy and lemon, or wine 
and nutmeg, to your taste. — Mrs. M. 

Butter Sponge Cake. 
14 eggs. 
Weight of 1 4 in sugar. 



332 BUTTEB SPONGE OAKE SPONGE OAKB. 

Weight of 8 in butter. 
Weight of 6 in flour. 
Juice and grated rind of two lemons. 
All the ingredients added to the beaten yolks, and the frothed 
whites stirred in last. — Mrs. S. T. 

Butter Sponge Cake. 
14 eggs. 

Their weight in sugar. 
8 in flour. 
6 in butter. 

The rind of 1, and juice of 2 lemons. 
Bake quickly. — Mrs. S. 

Sponge Cake. 
The weight of 1 dozen eggs in sugar. 
The weight of 4 eggs in flour. 
The juice and )-ind of 1 lemon. 
Beat well, and bake quickly. — Mrs. Mc G. 

Confederate Sponge Cake. 

1 cupful white sugar. 

2 cupfuls sifted flour. 
^ cupful cold water. 

3 eggs. 

One teaspoonful yeast powder in the flour; flavor to the 
taste. Mix yolks and sugar, then add the water after the 
whites (beaten to a stiff froth first), then the flour. — Miss S. 

Sponge Cake. 

14 eggs. 

Weight of 10 in powdered sugar. 
Weight of 6 in flour. 
Grated rind and juice of 1 lemon. 
Beat the yolks of eight eggs very light, then add the sugar 



SPONGE CAKE EXTRA SPONGE CAKE. 333 

and beat again. Put in the juice and grated rind of a lemon, 
then the whites of fourteen eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Beat 
all together for fifteen minutes without cessation, stirring in the 
flour last, barely mixing ; do not beat it. Pour into buttered 
moulds or shapes and bake in a hot oven. A large cake will 
require fully an hour for baking. If it bakes too fast on top, 
cover with buttered paper. — Mrs. S. T. 

Sponge Cake. {N^ever fails.) 
12 eggs. 

Their weight in sugar. 
The weight of 7 in flour. 
Juice of 1 lemon. 
1 tablespoonful good vinegar. 
Beat the whites, beat the yolks and sugar ; add the whites, 
beat well ; add the flour, and after adding it, do not beat it 
longer than is required to stir it in ; then add the lemon and 
vinegar, just as you put it in the tins or moulds. 

When the cake is hot, lemon sauce is nice to eat with it. — 
Mrs. K. 

Cream Sponge Cake. 
4 eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately. 
2 teacupfuls sugar. 

1 cupful sweet cream. 

2 heaping cupfuls flour. 
1 teaspoonful soda. 

Two teaspoonfuls cream ot tartar, mixed in the flour before 
it is sifted. Add whites of eggs last thing before tlie flour, then 
stir that in gently, without beating. Very nice. — Mrs. F. 

c. w. 

Extra Sponge Cake. 
Whites of 14 eggs. 
Yolks of only 1. 
One j)Ound best white sugar stirred in the yolks after thej 



334 SPONGE CAKE BOLL JELLY FOE OAKE. 

are well beaten. Add the whites, and lastly stir in very lightly 
half a pound of sifted flour. Beat very little after putting in 
the flour. Bake quickly. — Mrs. D. G. K. 

Sponge Cake Roll. 

6 eggs. 

1^ teacups flour. 

1 teacup powdered sugar. 

Rind and juice of a lemon. 
Beat the eggs separately and very light. Do not beat the 
batter much after adding the flour, which must be done last of 
all. Get a square baking-pan, butter it, and pour one-half the 
batter in, reserving the rest for a second layer. Have ready a 
nice damp towel, lay the cake on it when taken out of the pan ; 
spread over the cake, jam or currant jelly ; roll it up whilst 
damp, and when firmly set put it in a place to dry. It is good 
eaten with sauce, when for a dinner dish, or it can be cut in 
slices and eaten as small cakes. — Mrs. M. C. 

Sponge Roll. 

4 cupfuls of sugar. 

4 cupfuls of flour. 

1 dozen eggs. 
Mix as for sponge cake. Bake in thin sheets and spread on 
stewed apples, or any kind of fruit, a little sweetened ; roll the 
sheets with the top on the outside. Serve with rich wine saace. 
—Mrs. Col. S. 

Jelly for Cake. 
1 lemon bruised and strained. 
1 cupful sugar. 
1 large apple. 
1 egg. 
Beat the egg and mash the apple fine, grate the lemon peel, 
then mix all together ; put into a can or cup and set into a pot 



ANOTHER FILLmO FOE OAKE — JELL'S OAKE. 335 

of water. Let boil until it is cooked, and use as you would for 
common jelly cake. — Mrs. Wl McF. 

Another Filling for Cake. 
Dissolve one-half cake of chocolate in one teacup of cream or 
milk, and let it cool slowly ; then take it off the fire and stir in 
the well-beaten whites of three eggs mixed with one pound of 
sugar. Let it cool, stirring all the time till you find tnat it 
will harden when cool. 

Spread between the cakes while it is still soft. — Mr-i. E. 
C. G. 

Jelly Cake. 

Beat 8 eggs very light. 
Cream ^ pound butter, 
f pound floui-. 
f pound sugar well beaten. 
1 teaspoonful tartaric acid. 
1 teaspoonful of soda. 
Stir these in when ready to bake. Bake in thin pans, and 
put on jelly while warm. — Mrs. J". L. 

Lemon Jelly Cake. 
Bake sponge-cake batter (by recipe given) in jelly-cake pans. 
Beat with three eggs, two cupfuls sugar, butter size of an egg, 
melted, and juice and grated rind of two lemons. Stir over a 
slow fire until it boils, then spread between the layers of cake. 
Ice with lemon icing, or sift over powdered sugar. — Mrs. S. T. 

Jelly Cake. 
8 eggs. 

The weight of 4 in flour. 
The weight of 6 in sugar. 
To be baked in flat tins. 

For the jelly : one-quarter pound butter, one-half pound 
sugar, yolks of three eggs, juice and grated rind of one lemon. 



336 LEMON JELLY OAKE — ROLLED JELLY CASM. 

To be put in a saucepan and allowed to come to a boil. Then 
the three whites, beaten to a stiff froth, must be stirred in and 
the saucepan returned to the fire until it boils up. Spread 
between layers of cake. — Mrs. E. C. Gr. 

Lemon Jelly Cake. 

IScike as for the orange cake. For the jelly: take the juice 
and rind of three lemons, one pound sugar, one-quarter pound 
butter, six eggs ; beat together; scald as you do custard. When 
cool, it must be thick-spread between the cakes ; ice the top. — 
Mrs. G. C. 

Eolled Jelly Cake. 

3 eggs. 

1 teacup of sugar. 

1 teacup of flour. 
Beat the yolks of the eggs till light, then add the sugar ; con- 
tinue beating for some time, then add the whites beaten to a 
stiff froth ; next put in the flour, a little at a time. Bake in a 
long pan, well greased ; when done turn out on bread-board, 
then cover the top with jelly and roll while warm, and slice as 
needed. — Mrs. A. H. 

Rolled tTelly Cake. 

\ cupful sugar. 

1 tablespoonful of butter. 

1^ cupful of flour. 

§■ cupful of milk. 

1 egg. 
Two teaspoonfuls of baking powder sifted with the flour. Bake 
in a large sheet, and when done, spread on the jelly and cut the 
sheets in strips three or four inches wide and roll up. If 
instead of jelly a sauce is made and spread between the layers 
of cake, it may be eaten as a cream-pie and furnish a very nice 
dessert. For the sauce, beat together one egg, one teaspoonful 
of corn-starch, or one tablespoonful flour and two tablespoonfulu 



FILLING FOE JELLY CAKE MAEBLH CAKE. 3c37 

of sugar. Stir into a half-piut of milk and boil until it forms 
a good custard. Remove from the fire and flavor with vanilla. — 
Mrs. M. 

Filling fob Jelly Cake. 
Whites of two eggs, beaten to a froth. 
2 cupfuls of sugar. 
Juice and grated peel of 2 oranges. 
Put this between the layers, and on top the cakes. — Mrs. 
G. G. 

Oranges cut fine, and sweetened and mixed with grated cocoa- 
nut, also chocolate, is used for filling jelly cake. Sponge cake 
is better than the soda recipe. — Mrs. G. G. 

Marble Cake. 

Weigh and make a pound cake ; add a spoonful of yeast, 
take one-third part of the batter and add to it two teaspoonfuls 
of cinnamon, two teaspoonfuls of mace, one teaspoonful of cloves, 
one teaspoonful of nutmeg, finely ground. 

Put in your pan, first a layer of the plain batter, then a layer 
of the spiced, finishing with the plain. The batter will make 
three layers of plain and two of spiced. It bakes in beautiful 
layers.— Jfrs. G. L. T. 

Marble or Spiced Cake. 
Make up a pound cake and add two teaspoonfuls of yeast- 
powder. Take one-third part of the batter and add to it two 
teaspoonfuls of cinnamon and mace each, one teaspoonful of 
cloves and allspice each, one nutmeg finely powdered. Then 
grease a pan and put in first a layer of the plain batter, then_ 
the spiced, alternately, till you have it full, finishing with the 
plain. Bake as a pound cake. — Mrs. G. V. McG. 

Marble Cake. Light Part. 
3 cupfuls sugar. 
1 cupful butter. 
29 



838 MAEBLE CA££. 

1 cupful sour cream. 
5 cupfuls flour. 
Whites of 8 eggs. 

1 teaspoonful soda. 

Dark I'a/rt. 

2 cupfuls brown sugar. 
1 cupful molasses. 

1 cupful sour cream. 
1 cupful butter. 
5 cupfuls flour. 
1 teaspoonful soda. 
Yolks of 8 eggs. 
1 whole egg. 
1 wine-glassful wine. 
Mixed spices. 
Put alternately layers of each kind in two-pound moulds*. 

Marble Cake. Light Part, 
1 cupiFul white sugar. 
■§■ cupful butter. 
■J- cupful buttermilk. 
Whites of 3 eggs. 

1 teaspoonful cream tartar. 
\ teaspoonful soda. 

2 cupfuls flour. 

Dcurk Part. 
■J- cupful brown sugar. 
\ cupful butter. 
^ cupful molasses. 
\ cupful milk. 
J nutmeg. 

1 teaspoonful cinnamon. 
^ teaspoonful allspice. 

2 cupfuls flour. 



MABBLE OB BI8MABCK OAKE. 339 

^ teaspoonful soda. 
1 teaspoonful cream tartar. 
Yolks of 3 eggs. 
Put in the mould, alternately, tablespoonfula of ligi«t and dark 
batter.— Jfr«. J). C. K. 

Marble ok Bismarck Cake. 
3 cupfuls white sugar. 
1 cupful butter. 

1 cupful sour cream, or buttermilk 
5 cupfuls flour. 
Whites of 8 eggs. 
1 small spoonful soda. 
This is for the white batter. 

Dark Salter. 

2 cupfuls coffee sugar. 

1 cupful molasses. 

1 cupful sour cream. 

1 cupful butter. 

5 cupfuls flour. 

1 teaspoonful soda. 

Yolks of 8 eggs, and a whole one. 

1 wine-glassful mixed spices, finely powdered. 
Put in the pan, in alternate layers of light and dark batter. 
Bake quickly, like sponge cake. Ice and ornament with choco 
late drops. This fills a two-pound mould. 

B.OSE OR Clouded Cake. 
12 eggs, leaving out the whites of 3. 
1 pound flour; 

1 pound sugar. 
J pound butter. 

2 small teaspoonfuls cream tartar. 

2 small teaspoonfuls powdered alum. 
1 small teaspoonful soda. 



340 SPICE CAKE — CEEAM. OAKE. 

2 small teaspoonfuls cochineal, dissolved in -J cupful boiling 
water. 

Having dissolved the alum, soda, and cream tartar, mix with 
the cochineal. Stir these ingredients in nearly one-third of the 
batter. Pour into the cake mould a layer of white batter, and 
a layer of red batter, alternately, beginning and ending with 
vhite ; three layers of white and two of red. This is an orna- 
mental cake to cut for baskets. 

Spice Cake. 

Yolks of 4 eggs. 

Mix 2^ teaspoonfuls yeast powder in 2^ cupfuls flour. 

1 cupful brown sugar. 

■J cupful syrup. 

■J- cupful butter, must be melted after being measured. 

Stir with the sugar 2^ teaspoonfuls powdered cloves. 

1 teaspoonful powdered cinnamon. 

1 teaspoonful powdered allspice. 
The spices must be put in the flour, the syrup added after 
the sugar and butter are stirred together, then the eggs and 
mUk, and lastly the flour. Mix the above alternately, in your 
pans, after having them buttered. — Mrs. W. 

Ckeam Cake. 

2 cupfuls of sugar. 

3 cupfuls of flour. 
•J cupful of butter. 
3 eggs. 

1 cupful of sour milk. 

1 teaspoonful of soda. 

2 teaspoonfuls of cream tartar. 

Dissolve the soda in the milk, melt the butter and add it to 
the eggs. Add the sugar and cream tartar to the flour. Pour 
it all together in shallow pans that have been well greased 
Bake twenty minutes. 



CKEAM OAKE. OKEAM FOE SAME. 341 

While baking the above, get one pint of sweet milk, one cup- 
ful of sugai', one cup of flour, butter one-half size of an egg. If 
you use cream instead of milk, you can omit butter. Break 
two eggs into the sugar, beat awhile, then add flour and beat 
thoroughly. Have the milk on the fire, and as soon as it boils, 
stir the mixture in it, after thinning it with some of the milk 
until it is like paste ; cook until it is like stifi" starch. Season 
freely with vanilla when cold, and spread it between the cakes 
as jelly cake is made. 

Grated cocoanut can be used instead, by preparing as fol- 
lows : one large cocoanut grated, two pounds of loaf sugar. 
Pour the milk from the nut on the sugar ; boil it two or three 
minutes, first mixing in the whites of three eggs ; if not soft 
enough, add some sweet milk. Take it off the fire, stir in the 
grated cocoanut, and spread between the cakes. — Mrs. J". J*'. G. 

Cream Cake. 

2 cupfuls of sugar. 

1 cupful of sweet milk. 

3 cupfuls of flour. 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 

4 eggs. 

■^ teaspoonful of soda. 
1 teaspoonful of cream tartar. 
Bake in four jelly pans. 

Ckeam pok the Same. 

2 cupfuls of sugar. 

^ pint of sweet milk. 

■J- cupful of flour. 

1 egg. 
Heat the milk to boiling heat, beat the egg and sugar to- 
gether ; take a little milk, and make a smooth paste with the 
flour, and stir into the sugar and egg, then stir all into the 



342 OAPITAl CAKE A NICE ODP OAKE. 

milk. Let it boil until thick, then spread between cakes. — 
Mrs. A. H. 

CAPiTAii Cake. (Ddiciotcs.) 
1 pound of sugar. 

4 cupfuls of flour, after being sifted. 
1 cupful of butter. 

1 cupful of morning's milk. 
6 eggs beaten light. 

2 tea^oonfuls of cream tartar, sifted in the flour. 

1 teaspoonful of soda dissolved in the milk. Flavor with 
lemon or nutmeg. — Mrs. M. 

Cup Cake. 

5 cupfuls of flour. 

3 cupfuls of sugar. 

I'J- cupfuls of butter. 

As much fruit as you like. 
1 teaspoonful of soda dissolved in a cupful of milk. 
3 eggs. 
1 nutmeg. 

1 wine-glass wine and brandy mixed. 
Mix as pound cake. — Mrs. J". W. H. 

Gup Cake. 

1 cupful of butter. 

2 cupfuls of sugar. 
2^ cupfuls of flour. 
^ cupful of milk. 

6 eggs, beaten separately. 

1 teaspoonful yeast powder. — Miis M. W. 

A Nice Gwp Cake. 
6 eggs. 
4 cupfuls of flour. 



A DELICIOUS CAKE CAKE. 343 

3 cupfuls of sugar. 
1 cupful of butter. 
1 cupful of milk. 
1 teaspoonful cream of tartar. 
■J- teaspoonful of soda. 
Season with mace and nutmeg. Bake in cu|)s or little tin 
pans. — Mrs. Wm. C. -R. 

A Delicious Cake. 
2^ pounds flour. 
2 pounds butter. 
24 eggs, yolks and whites. 
12 ounces almonds. 

2 tablespoonfuls rose water, in which the almonds should be 
beaten. 

2 wine-glasses of French brandy. 

2 heaping teaspoonfuls beaten mace, and a butter-plate of 
preserved lemon-peel. — Zi. T. 

Delicioiis Cake. 

2 cupfuls of sugai-. 
I cupful of butter. 

1 cupful of milk. 

3 cupfuls of flour, after being sifted. 
3 eggs. 

2 tablespoonfuls baking powder. 

Bake in jelly-cake pans, and between each layer put fruit jelly, 
icing of chocolate and cocoanut each. This quantity will bake 
five thin cakes. — Mrs. McG. 

Cake. 
1 quart of flour, well dried. 
1 cupful of butter. 

3 cupfuls granulated sugar — ^it is better than ])ulverized. 
6 eggs, well beaten. 



344 OAKE — CUSTAKD CAKE. 

Lemon, or other seasoning. 

1 light measure of both Horsford's powders, or, if preferred, 
a small teaspoonful of soda, and -J cup of buttermilk. 

Cream of tartar takes the place of buttermilk, when used 
with soda. — Mrs. A, 

Cake with sauce.) 
5 eggs. 

1 pound of flour, 
f pound of sugar. 
^ pound butter. 

1 cup of cream. 

2 teaspoonful s cream of tartar. 

1 teaspoonful of soda. — Mrs. C, S. 

Cake that cannot Fail. 
1 pound sugar. 
1 pound flour. 
J pound butter. 
8 eggs. 

1 teacup of sweet cream. 

2 teaspoonfuls ci'eam of tartar, sifted in the flour. 

1 teaspoonful of soda dissolved in a little water, and put in 
the cream. Bake in pans or cups. — Mrs. P. 

Custard Cake. 

•J cupful butter. 

2 cupfuls sugar. 

7 eggs, leaving out 4 yolks. 

3 cupfuls flour. 

1 cupful of milk. 

2 teaspoonfuls baking jjowder. Bake in shallow pans. 
For the custard : one quart of milk, let come to a boil, 

sweeten it ; take the four yolks and three tablespoonfuls of corn- 
starch, mix with a little of the milk cold, and then stir it grad- 



MBS. GALt's OAKE — KETPLE OAKE. 345 

ually into the boiling milk, and continue to stir until done. 
Add a piece of butter the size of a walnut ; flavor with vanilla, 
and put between the cakes. — Mrs. G. JB. 

Mrs. Galt's Cake. 
"Whites of 13 eggs, yolks of 3. 
f pound of butter. 
1 pound of dour. 
1 pound of sugar. Season to taste. — Miss E. T. 

Norfolk Cake. 
Beat to a cream : 
1 teacup of butter. 
6 eggs. 

3 teacups of sugar. 
1 teacup of cream. 

4 teacups of flour. 
\ nutmeg. 

1 wine-glass of brandy. 

1 pound raisins. 

1 teaspoonful of soda, dissolved in cream. — Mrs. Dr. S, 

Kettle Cake. 
Have a large, nice brass kettle ready. Set it on a few warm 
embers, not with any fire ; pukinto the kettle : 
12 eggs. 
1 pound sugar. 
1 pound butter. 
A light pound of flour. 
1 teaspoonful of mace. 
Rind and juice of a large lemon. 
Stir all the materials rapidly, and with a strong, large iron 
spoon or a long butter-ladle. When it is light, which will be 
in about three-quarters of an hour, put it in a mould and bake 
as common pound cake. It is good with 



346 paeson's oake — ^eugglbs' oakb. 

2 pounds currants. 

2 pounds raisins. 

J pound citron. 

1 glass of brandy. — Mrs. M. G. C. 

Parson's Cake. 

6 eggs. 

1 large teacupful brown sugar. 

4 cupfuls flour. 

3 cupfuls molasses. 

1^ cupful butter. 

Ginger and spice to the taste. 

1 teaspoonful soda, dissolved in a little milk. Bake. — Mrs 

D.R. 

Risen Cake. 

1-J- pound flour. 
1 pound sugar. 
9 ounces butter. 

3 gills milk, 
\ pint yeast. 

4 eggs. 

Work the butter and sugar together. Put the yeast in the 
flour and one-half the butter and sugar the overnight ; then 
mix the milk in, and beat it some time. Set it where it will 
rise. In the morning, when well risen, mix in the remainder 
of the butter and sugar, and the eggs, also some currants or rai- 
sins, or both, if you wish them, a little nutmeg or mace, and 
beat all well together for some time. Then put it in the pan 
and set it to rise again. It must be very light before you put 
it in the oven. It requires some time to soak. — Mrs. I. IT. 

RuGGLEs' Cake. 
6 eggs. 

1^ cupful butter. 
3 cupfuls sugar. 



TIPST OAKE NAPLES BISCUIT. 347 

4 cupfuls flour, 
1 cupful milk. 
1 teaspoonful soda. 
Season to taste. — Mrs. M. 

Tipsy Cake. 
Soak sponge cake in wine and water. Make a custard of six 
to one quart of milk, and oour over it. Reserve tiie 
whites, beat to stiff froth, to put over last. — Jtfrs. Dr. S. 

Velvet Cake. 

Half a pound of butter, one pound sugar ; creamed together. 
One teacup of cold water, with a level teaspoonful of soda 
dissolved in it, and poured in the butter and sugar, two tea- 
spoonfids cream of tartar, sifted in one pound of flour. 

Mix the flour with butter, sugar, and watei-, and beat well. 

Take five eggs, beat yolks and whites separately, and then beat 

them together three minutes. Season as you like, and mix 

with the batter. Beat considerably and bake half an hour. — 

Mrs. A. B. 

Whortleberry Cake. 

6 eggs, beaten separately. 

1 pound sugar. 

•f pound butter. 

1 quart flour. 

^ pint sifted meal. 

1 teaspoonful soda. 

A little mace and cinnamon. 
After mixing, stir in one quart of the berries, so as not to 
mash them, having previously dusted them with flour. Mix 
the soda with one-half pint of cream or mUk. — Mrs. A. P. 

Naples Biscuit. 
1 pound flour. 
1 pound sugar. 



348 ICING —COLD ICING. 

12 whites, and 10 yolks of eggs. 
2 glasses wine. 
They should gradually harden in the oven till quite crisp, ana 
be frequently turned in the pans. 

Icing. 
1^ pound sugar. 
^ pint water. 
Boil until it ropes. Have ready the whites of seven eggs 
well beaten, pour the syrup into a bowl, and beat until milk- 
warm. Then put in the eggs, and beat for an hour.- — Mrs. W. 

Hot Icing. 

Dissolve one pint powdered sugar in two or three table- 
spoonfuls water, and boil. 

Beat the whites of four eggs to a strong froth ; add the hot 
sugar, stirring in till smooth. Beat about two minutes and fla- 
vor to j'our taste, spread on the cake, and put in a hot place. — 

Mrs. P. 

Icing. 

Whites of two eggs, beaten to a froth. 

One pound of sugar, dissolved and boiled in a small teacup of 
water. 

Then strain the sugar and pour it into the egg, beating it 
hard until cool. 

Add one-half teaspoonful lemon acid. — L. D. L. 

Boiled Icing. 

1^ pound cut sugar, or double refined. 

1 teacup of water. 

6 whites of eggs. 

Boil the sugar to candy height ; when nearly cold put in eggs. 

E.P. 

Cold Icing. 

Whites of 3 eggs. 
1 pound sugar. 



ICING FOE CAKE — BOILED ICING. 3i9 

Beat very light and season with vanilla or lemon. After 
beating very lightly, add the white of another egg and it will 
give a pretty gloss upon the icing. — Miss E. P. 

Icing fok Cake. 
Take three pounds cut or best quality of loaf sugar, dissolve 
it in a small quantity of water, boil to candy height or until it 
ropes. Have ready the whites of thirteen eggs well beaten. 
When the sugar is boiled sufficiently, pour it into a deep bowl, 
occasionally stirring it gently, until you nan just bear your fin- 
ger in it ; then add the beaten egg all at once, beating it very 
hard for half an hour, when it is ready for use. Strain into the 
icing the juice of one lemon into which the peel has been grated, 
for half an hour.— Jlfrs. F. C. W. 

Icing. 
Break into a dish the whites of four eggs. Whip in by 
degrees one and one-quarter pound of the finest loaf sugar, 
powdered and sifted. Beat till stifl' and smooth, then add the 
strained juice of a large lemon with a few drops of oil of lemon, 
and beat again ; in all beat half an hour. If too stiff add a lit- 
tle more white of egg. Some persons put it on with a knife, 
but it is fa,r smoother and more evenly spread over the cake if 
put on with a large spoon. Dip up a s2Doonful of the icing and 
pour it from the spoon over the cake. Pour it over the top of 
the cake and it will diffuse itself down the sides. To color icing 
yellow, steep the rind of an orange or lemon in the lemon juice 
before straining it into the icing. To make it pink, put in 
strawberry or cranberry juice with the lemon juice. — Mrs. S. T. 

Icing for Cakes. 
Whites of six eggs to one pound sugar, or one egg to three 
teaspoonfuls of sugar. — Mrs. Dr. tT. 

Boiled Icing. 
One and one-fourth pound loaf sugar, added to one teacuf 



350 SOFT GINGER OAKE — GINGEE LOAF. 

of water and boiled to a thick syrup. Then strain it through 
thin muslin, and, while hot, stir into it the whites of three eggs 
beaten stifll Then beat in the strained juice of a lemon and 
season with a little oil of lemon. If too thin, add a little sugar ; 
if too stiff, add a little more white of egg. — Mrs. S. T. 

Soft Ginger Cake. 
1 cupful butter. 
1 cupful sugar. 
1 cupful molasses. 

1 cupful sour cream. 

3 eggs. 

\ tablespoonful of soda. 

2 tablespoonfuls of ginger. 

Flour until the spoon will almost stand alone. Cloves and 
cinnamon to taste.- (This is very good.) — Mrs. J. F. 

Soft Gikoerbread. 

3 eggs. 

1 teacup butter. 
\ teacup ginger. 
1 teacup molasses. 
3 teacups sifted flour. 
1 large tablespoonful of ginger. 

1 small teaspoonful of soda, dissolved in ^ teacup of sour 
cream. — Mrs. McG. 

Ginger Loaf. 
6 eggs. 

4 cupfuls molasses. 
2 cupfuls of butter. 
6 cupfuls flour. 

1 teaspoonful soda. 

1 tablespoonful ginger. 

Cinnamon to your taste. — Mrs. P. W. 



BISEN GINGEEBEEAD — MOLASSES CAKE. 351 

BisEN Gingerbread. 

2 pounds flour. 

1 pound nice brown sugar. 

1 pound butter. 

6 eggs. 

^ pint molasses. 

3 ounces ginger. 
Bake in a large cake. — Mrs. A. T. 

Lightened Gingerbread. 
1^ pound of flour. 
■J- pound butter. 
\ pound sugar. 
6 eggs. 

6 races of white ginger. 
1 teaspoonful soda. 
1 pint molasses. 
To be baked in tins or a pan. — Mrs. I. S. 

Ginger Cup Cake. 
3 eggs. 

1 cupful molasses. 
1 cupful sugar. 

1 cupful butter (half lard will answer). 
^ teaspoonful soda, dissolved in 1 tablespoonful buttermilk. 
1 tablespoonful ground ginger. 
2^ cupfuls flour. 
Mix as other cake. Some like allspice. — Mrs. H. D. 

Molasses Cake. 
5 light cupfuls flour. 
5 eggs. 

2 cupfuls sugar. 
2 cupfuls molasses. 
1 cupful butter. 



Ji52 MOLASSES CAKE — BLACK, OE MOLASSES OAKB. 

1 cupful cream, with one teaspoonful soda. 

2 tablespoonfuls cream of tartai-. 
2 teaspoonfuls ground ginger. 

All well beaten together. Bake as pound cake. — Miss E. T 

Molasses Cake. 
1 teaspooufiil soda. 
1 pound butter. 
1 pound sugar. 
1 pint molasses. 
1 tablespoouful ginger, 
r enough to make it as thick as ordinary cake. — Miss 

Molasses Pound Cake. 
^ pound butter. 
2 cupfuls sugar. 
2 cupfuls molasses. 
6 cupfuls flour. 
1 cupful cream. 
4 eggs. 
Some cloves and nutmeg ; add lemon to taste. 

—Mrs. Dr. 8. 

Black, or Molasses Cake. 
I quart flour. 
' eggs. 

I pint molasses. 
■J pound butter. 
.' tablespoonfuls ginger. 
1 teaspoonful soda, dissolved in 1 teacup sour milk. 

—Mrs. T. a 



SMAIiL CAKES DEOP CAKE. 353 



SMALL CAKES. 



Albany Cakes. 
IJ pound flour. 
1-J pound brown sugar. 
1^ pound butter. 
I tablespoonful lard. 
4 tablespoonfuls powdered cinnamon. 
1 teaspoonful soda, dissolved in a cup of milk. 
R . ' on extra flour very thin. Dip the face of each cake in 
granulated sugar. Bake slowly in greased pans. — Mrs. R. R. 

Scotch Cakes. {Very nice.) 

2 pounds flour. 
1-J- pound sugar. 
1 pound butter. 

6 eggs, beaten together. 

3 nutmegs. — Mrs. P., Mo G. 

Sweet Ckackeks. 
4 eggs. 

4 cupfiils sugar. 
■J- pound butter. 
1 teaspoonful soda. 
1 cupful sour cream. 

Pounded cinnamon and grated nutmeg for flavoring. 
Sufficient flour for a soft dough. 
Roll thin and cut it with tin shapes, and bake quickly. — 

Mtk. S. 

Drop Cake. 
6 eggs. 

1 pound sugar. 
J pound butter. 

1 teaspoonful soda, in 1 cupful sour cream. 

2 teaspoonfuls cream of tartar, in 1 quart flour. 

—Mrs. S. 
30 



851 cream cakes — ^maegueeites. 

Cream Cakes. 

Beat up one egg, add to it half a cupful sugar, half a cupfi.1 flour, 
mixing thoroughly. While this is being done, put on the fire 
half a pint milk ; when it boils, stir in the eggs, sugar, and 
flour mixture, then add a piece of butter, half the size of an egg. 
Stir all the time until it is of the desired consistency, which will 
be in f. fow minutes. When cold, add, and thoroughly mix, one 
and one-half teaspoonful vanilla. 

For the cake : put one tumblerful of water to boil, and then 
add one-quarter pound butter; when melted, put in one and 
one-half tumblerful of flour. Stir in, mixing thoroughly, being 
careful not to burn it. It is sufficiently cooked by the time it 
is thoroughly mixed. Remove from the fire, and when cool, 
stir in five unbeaten eggs, mixing one at a time. It will then 
be the consistency of stiff paste. Drop on buttered tins, and 
bake in a quick oven fifteen or twenty minutes. Cut the side 
and insert the cream. — Mrs. H. M. 

Marguerites. 
Cream together one pound of sugar and one pound of butter 
very light. Beat the yolks of six eggs, sift one and one-half 
pound of flour into the eggs, butter, and sugar ; one teaspoonful 
of mixed spices, one-half glassful of rose water. Stir the whole 
well, and roll it on the board till it is half an inch thick ; cut 
in cakes and bake quickly. When cold, spread the surface of 
each cake with marmalade. Beat the whites of four eggs light, 
and add enough powdered sugar to make them as thick as icing. 
Flavor it with lemon, and put it on top of each cake. Put the 
cakes in the oven, and as soon as they are of a pale brown, take 
them out. — Miss M. C. L. 

Marguerites. 
Two pounds of flour, one pound and five ounces of sugar, one 
pound and five ounces of butter, eight eggs. Rub together the 
butter and sugar till perfectly light ; beat the eggs till very 



MARGUEKITES, OK JELLY 0AKE8 — SHEEWSBtlJBY CAKE. 355 

thick, leaving out the whites of six eggs for the icing. Sift tht 
flour into the eggs, butter and sugar, one teaspoonful of mixed 
spices (cinnamon, mace, and nutmeg), half a glass of rose water. 
Stir the whole well together, and roll it on your paste-board 
about half an inch thick ; then cut out the cakes and bake 
them a few minutes. When cold, spread the surface of each 
cake with marmalade or jam. Beat the whites, left out, very 
light, and add enough powdered sugar to make them as thick 
as icing. Season with lemon or vanilla, and with a spoon put it 
on each cake. Put the cakes in the oven to brown. — Mrs. H. 



Marguerites, or Jelly Cakes. 

Rub together one pound sugar, one pound of butter, till per- 
fectly light. Beat six eggs till very thick, leaving out the 
whites. Sift one and a half pound of flour into the eggs, 
butter, and sugar, one teaspoonful of mixed spices (cinnamon, 
mace, and nutmeg), and half a glass of rose water. Stir the 
whole well, and roll it on the paste-board about one-quarter 
inch thick. Then cut out tlie cakes and bake them a few 
minutes. When cold, spread the surface of each cake with 
peach jam or any marmalade. Beat the whites of four eggs 
very light, and add enough powdered sugar to make them as 
thick as icing. Flavor it with lemon or rose water and with a 
spoon put it on each cake, high in the centre. Put the cakes 
in the oven, and as soon as they are of a pale brown take them 
out. — Mrs. I. H. 

Shrewsbury Cake, 

1 pound flour. 
12 ounces sugar. 
12 ounces butter. 

2 eggs. 

Add two tablespoonfuls rose water, or two teaspoonfuls beaten 
mace. Roll and bake in tin sheets or in an oven. — M'- ''" 



356 ma0ae00n8 — ^jumbles, 

Macakoons. 
Blaucii and pound one pound of sweet almonds with a little 
rose water ; whip the whites of seven eggs to a froth ; add one 
pound sugar ; beat some time. Add the almonds ; mix well- 
Drop on buttered paper, sift sugar over them, and bake 
quickly. 

Jumbles. 
1 pound flour, 
f pound butter. 
1 pound sugar. 
3 eggs. Flavor with mace. 
A delicious cake. — Mrs. A. T. 

Jackson Jumbles. 
3 teacups sugar. 
1 teacup lard. 
6 teacups flour. 

1 teaspoonful soda in one cup of sour cream. 
3 eggs. 

The grated rind of one or two lemons, or a little grated nut- 
meg. Roll out and bake. — Mrs. M. S. 

Jumbles. 
3 pounds flour. 

2 pounds sugar. 
1 pound butter. 
8 eggs. 

1 teaspoonful soda. 

A little milk if the eggs are not enough. — Mrs. M. E. 

Jv/mhles. 
Kub one pound butter into one and a quarter pound flour ; 
beat four eggs with one and a quarter pound sugar, very light ; 
mix well with the flour. Add one nutmeg and a glass of 
brandy. — Mrs. J. W. 



coffee cake — 8teawbeeet cakes. 357 

Coffee Cake. 
1 teacup of molasses. 
1 cupful of good liquid coffee. 
1 cupful sugar. 
1 cupful butter. 
4 cupfuls flour. 
1 teaspoonful of cinnamon. 
1 teaspoonful cloves. 
1 teaspoonful cream tartar. 
•§■ teaspoonful soda. 
1 pound of raisins. 
J pound of citron. 
3 eggs. 
i wine-glass of brandy. — Mrs. J". H. F, 

Cinnamon Cakes. 

1 pound butter. 

2 pounds flour. 

1 pound sugar. 

Six eggs, leaving out two yolks, which you will beat up 
with a little rose water, and, with a feather, spread on the 
cakes ; then strew cinnamon and sugar on them, and blanched 
almonds. Lay them on tins, and bake them in a slow oven. — 
Mrs. I. H. 

Cinnamon Cakes. 

2 quarts flour. 

6 or 8 eggs, the yolks only. 

\ pound butter. 

\ pound sugar. 

1 spoonful cinnamon. — Mrs. Dr. Jt, JS. 

Steawberry Cakes. 

2 pounds flour. 

1 pound loaf sugar. 



«?58 HOLMOEOFT CAKE COOKIES. 

1 pound butter. 
6 eggs. 

Mace and a little wine to flavor. 
Bake quickly. — Mrs. A. T. 

HoLMCROPT Cake. 

1 coffee-cup of sugar. 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter not melted. 

1 teacup of sweet milk. 
Whites of 2 eggs, or 1 whole egg. 

2 coffee-cups of flour. — Mrs. N. 

Nothings. 
Take one egg, two tablespoonfuls cream, butter the size of a 
walnut, flour to make the dough very stiff; work it well and 
roll it very thin. Cut the size of a saucer. Fry in lard and 
sprinkle with powdered sugar. — Mrs. T. 0. 

Sugar Cakes. 
Mix four cupfuls of sugar with eight cupfuls of flour and one 
large spoonful of coriander-seed ; add one cupful of butter, one 
cupful of lard, six eggs, two tablespoonfuls of sour cream oi 
milk, one teaspoonful of soda. — Mrs. Dr. S. 

Cookies. 
3 eggs. 

1 cupful of butter or lard. 

2 cupfuls of sugar. 

6 cupfuls of sifted flour. 
1 nutmeg. 

1 teaspoonful of soda. 

2 teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar, sifted with the flour. 
Cream the butter with one cup of the sugar, beat the eggs 

separately and put into the yolks the remaining cup of sugar j 
add this to the butter, and put in whites and flour last. RoU 
fliin and bake quickly. — Mrs. F. F. F. 



glouoestek oakes — oeullees. 359 

Gloucester Cakes. 
6 eggs. 

1 quart of milk. 
1 quart of flour. 

A piece of butter the size of an egg. 
Beat the eggs very light ; mix into them the flour and luilk 
alternately, and beating it until perfectly smooth, add a little 
salt. Melt the butter and stir it into the batter. Bake in 
small moulds. — Mrs. J". D. 

Tea Cakes. 

2 quarts of flour. 

1 small teacup of lard. 
1 small teacup of butter. 

3 cupfuls of sugar. 

3 eggs. 

1 cupful of cream (sour is best). 

2 small teaspoonfuls of soda. 

1 grated nutmeg. 

Roll out half an inch thick, and bake in a moderate ovon. — 
Mrs. F. C. W. 

Crui.leiis. 

2 quarts of flour. 
2 cups of sugar. 
6 eggs. 

2 spoonfuls of soda. 

4 spoonfuls cream of tartar. 

4 tablespoonfuls of melted butter. 

A little salt. 

Biub the cream tartar, flour, and sugar together; wet with 

sweet milk quite soft. Have the lard several inches deep in 

the pot or pan you cook in, and when boiling lay ia enough 

crullers just to cover the bottom. They must be quite thia, and 



360 TEA CAKES A DELICATE CAKE FOE TEA. 

when brown on the lower side, turn over with a fork. They 
are more convenient to turn with a bole in the centre. — Mrs. B. 

Tea Cakes. 

2 quarts of flonr. 

3 oupfuls of sugar. 
] cup of butter. 

5 eggs. 

1 teaspoonful of soda dissolved in 2 tablespoonfuls of sweet 

mUk. 

2 teaspoonfuls cream of tartar. 

Season with lemon or nutmeg. — Mrs. S. 

Delicate Tea Cakes. 
Whites of 3 eggs beaten to a froth. 
1 cupful of pulverized sugar. 
■J- cupful of sweet milk. 
1 teaspoonful cream of tartar. 
■J- teaspoonful of soda. 
2^ oupfuls of flour. 
1 teaspoonful of almonds. 
■J- cupful of melted butter. — Mrs. H. 

Taktaeic Cakes. 
Beat the yolks of three eggs, the whites whipped to a froth, 
three full cups of brown sugar, half a pound of butter, one 
spoonful lard, one and a half pound of flour, leaving two spoon- 
fuls to roll with. Mix all well together. Dissolve one tea- 
spoonful soda and three-quarters teaspoonful tartaric acid in a 
little cream. First mix the soda with the dough, then the acid. 
Season with mace oi wine. They will rise very much. — Mrs. D. 

A Delicate Cake for Tea. 
Beat the yolks and whites of two eggs separately ; to the 
yolks add two coffee-cups of sugar, and two oupfuls of sweet 



LEMON JUMBLES DELICIOUS SMALL CAKES. 361 

milk; then four tablespoonfuls butter creamed; next the 
white of the eggs, lastly, four cupfuis of flour with one teaspoon- 
ful soda, two teaspoonfuls cream of tartar, sifted in the flour. 
Bake in shallow pans. — Mrs. C. V. Mc G. 

Lemon Jumbles. 
1 egg. 

1 teacupful sugar. 
•J- teacupful of butter. 
3 teaspoonfuls milk. 

1 teaspoonful cream of tartar. 
^ teaspoonful of soda. 

2 small lemons ; juice of two and grated rind of one. 
Mix rather stiff. Roll and cut out with a cake-cutter. — 

Mrs. W. 

BONNEFEADAS. 

Make a rich paste with one quart flour ; roll it out very thin, 
first dividing it in two pieces, spread it with butter, washed and 
creamed, "A" sugar, and pulverized cinnamon. Roll it up, 
cut it in pieces one inch wide ; put them in a pan with the 
whole side down ; sprinkle over them sugar, butter, and cinna- 
mon. Bake quickly. Take them out of the pan while hot. — 
Mrs. Col. A. L. 

Delioious Small Cakes. 
Yolks of 6 eggs. 
1 light pound flour. 
\ pound butter. 
1 spoonful lard. 
1 pound sugar. 
These cakes are better without soda and of the consistency 
of Shrewsbury cakes. Beat the whites of three eggs to a strong 
froth ; weigh one pound of the best " A " sugar, put it in a tin 
can with three wine-glasses of water. Let it boil slowly, till it be- 
gins to rope, or rather, when a little of it will cool on a plate, 

31 



3fj2 WAFBBS GINGER CAKES. 

like it would begin to candy. Then pour the boiling sugar 
gradually to the white of jgg ; beat it well till it begins to thick- 
en and to cool somewhat, then beat into the icing two tablespoon- 
fuls of powdered cinnamon, and ice over the little cakes, using 
a stiif feather for the purpose. You can add the other unbeater 
whites of eggs, with an addition of sugar, to mako more smal' 
cakes. — Mrs. M. G. C. 

Wafers. 
4 ounces butter. 

4 ounces sugar. 

5 ounces flour. 
4 eggs. 

1 glass of wine. 

A little mace and nutmeg. — Mrs. Dr. J'. 

Wafers. 
4 spoonfuls flour. 
4 spoonfuls sugar. 
4 spoonfuls cream. 
1 spoonful butter. 
Orange peel, mace, and nutmeg. 
Prepare as for pound cake. Bake in wafer irons, rolling them 
while hot. 

Dimples. 
lieat the whites of three eggs and three-quarters pound of 
sugar till well mixed. Stir in blanched almonds, cut fine. 
Drop on tins and bake in a cool oven. — Mrs. A. C. 

Ginger Cakes. 
1 teacup of butter. 
1 teacup brown sugatv 
1 teacup sour milk. 
7 cupfuls flour. 



OINOEB SNAPS GINGBE BUNlfS. 

1^ teacup molasses. 

1^ teaspoonfuls soda. — Mrs. G. -B. 

Ginger Snaps. 
1 pint of molasses. 
1 teacup brown sugar. 
1 teacup of butter and lard mixed. 
Beat the molasses till it looks light, then put it in the sugar ; 
next pour in the hot butter and lard, one egg beaten lighl , one 
teacup ground ginger. 

Have the mixture milk-warm ; work flour in briskly. Roll 
them and bake quickly. — Miss N. S. L. 

Ginger Cakes. 

1 dozen eggs. 

2 pounds of flour. 
1 pound butter. 

1 pound sugar. 

1 pint molasses. 

1 small teacup of ginger. 

1 teaspoonful of soda. — Mrs. Col. 8. 

Cheap Ginger Cakes. 

3 pints of flour. 

1 large spoonful of lard. 

2 large spoonfuls of ginger. 

1 dessertspoonful of soda in a pint of molasses. 

—Mrs. H. S. 
Ginger Bunns. 
f pound butter, ^ pound sugar, rubbed to a cream. 
^ nutmeg. 

1 tablespoonful ginger. 
Stir all together, then add two eggs well beaten, stir in one 
pound of flour and moisten with sweet milk, until it can be 
easily worked. Roll out and bake in quick oven, — Mrs. S. D. 



364 MOLASSES CAKES DEOP GINGER CAKES. 

MoiAssES Cakes. 
7 cupfuls of flour. 
2 cupfuls of molasses. 
1 cupful sugar. 
1 cupful of butter. 
1 cupful of sour milk. 

1 even tablespoonful of soda. 

2 tablespoonfuls of ginger. 

Let the dough be as soft as you can conveniently handle it 
Bake in a moderately quick oven. — Mrs. R. L. 

Spice Nuts. 
1 pound sugar. 
1 pound flour. 
1 pint molasses. Mix well, 
f pound butter. 
3 tablespoonfuls ginger. 
1 tablespoonful allspice. 
1 tablespoonful cinnamon. 
Bake in small drops or cakes. — Mrs. Dr. J", 

Ginger Snaps. 
1 cupful butter. 
1 tablespoonful ginger. 

1 teaspoonful soda, in 1 pint boiling molasses. 
Siir and let it cool : add sifted flour enough to make a douah; 
roll thin and bake. — Mrs. S. JB. 

Drop Ginger Cakes. 

1 pound butter, cream it as for pound cake. 

2 packed quarts flour. 
1 pound sugar. 

1 pint molasses. 
5 eggs. 

2 tablespoonfuls ginger. — Mrs. N'. 



PUDDINGS PLUM PUDDING. 365 



PUDDINGS. 

The directions given for cake apply likewise to puddings. 
Always Leat the whites and yolks of the eggs separately and 
very light, and add the whites just before baking or boiling. 
All puddings (except those risen with yeast), should be baked 
immediately after the ingredients are mixed. Thick yellow 
earthenware dishes are better than tin for baking puddings, 
on several accounts. One is that the pudding, to be good, must 
be baked principally from the bottom, and tin burns moi'e easily 
than eai'thenware. Another reason is, that the acids employed 
in some puddings corrode and discolor tin. Garnish the pud- 
ding with sifted white sugar, and with candied or preserved 
orange or lemon peel. 

In boiling a pudding, cold water should never be added. 
Keep a kettle of hot water to replenish the water in the pot as 
it boils away. As soon as the pudding is done, remove it from 
the boiling water. A decrease in heat whilst cooking, makes 
boiled pudding sodden, and makes baked pudding fall. The 
best sauce for a boiled pudding is cold sauce made of the frothed 
whites of eggs, buttei', sugar, nutmeg, and a little French 
brandy, while for a baked pudding, a rich, boiled wine sauce is 
best. 

Plum Pudding. 

3 dozen eggs. 

3 pounds baker's bread, stale, and grated fine. 

3 pounds suet. 

3 pounds brown sugar. 

1 pound sliced citron. 

3 pounds currants. 

4 pounds seeded raisins. 

^ ounce nutmeg, and the same of mace, cloves, and cinnamon. 

Half pin( wine. 

Half pint French cooking brandy. 



366 PLUM PUDDING. 

Mix and divide into six parts. Tie each part in a twilled 
cotton cloth, put them in boiling water, and let them boil four 
hours. Then hang them in the air to dry a day or two. Keep 
them in a cool, dry place. 

When you wish to use one, it must be boiled an hour before 
dinner. Serve with rich sauce. It will keep six months or a 
year.— Jlfrs. T. M. C. 

Plv/m Pvdding. 

10 eggs. 

1 pound chopped suet. 

1 pound seeded raisins. 

1 pound cui-rants. 

1 pound stale bread crumbs. 

^ pound citron. 

1 nutmeg. 

1 wine-glassful wine. 

1 wine-glassful brandy. 

^ pound brown sugar. 
Beat the eggs light, add the sugar and spices, stir in the 
suet and bread crumbs, add the fruit by degrees, then the wine 
and brandy. Pour into a well-floured bag, leaving a third as 
much room as the mixture occupies, for swelling. Put into 
a pot of boiling water and boil four hours. Dip the bag into 
cold water when ready to turn out the pudding, to prevent it 
from sticking. — Mrs. E. S. 

Plum, Pudding. 
At sunrise, sift a quart of the best flour ; rub into it an 
Irish potato mashed, free from lumps. Put in it a teaspoonful 
of salt, and a half teacup of yeast. Add six eggs, beaten 
separately, and enough water to make a soft dough. Knead 
half an hour without intermission. In winter, set it in a warm 
place, in summer set it in a cool place to rise. If dinner is 
wanted at two o'clock, knead into this at one o'clock, half 



RICH PLUM PUDDING ENGLISH PLUM PUDDING. 367 

pound of butter, two pounds of stoned raisins, cut \ip, and a 
grated nutmeg. Work very little, just enough to mix. Wet 
a thick cloth, flour it and tie it loosely that the pudding may 
have room to rise. Put it in a kettle of milk- warm water, 
heating slowly until it boils. Boil one hour. Serve with wine 
sauce. — Mrs. S. 7\ 

Rich Plum Pudding. 

Nine eggs beaten to a froth. 

Add flour sufiicient to make a thick batter, free from lumps. 
Then add one pint of new milk and beat well. Afterwards add 
the following ingredients, in small quantities at a time, keeping 
it well stirred. 

Two pounds stoned raisins, two pounds currants, well washed, 
picked, and dried. One-quarter pound bitter almonds, blanched 
and divided ; three-quarters pound brown sugar ; three-quarters 
pound beef suet, chopped fine ; one nutmeg, grated fine ; one 
teaspoonful of ground allspice, the same of mace and cinna- 
mon. 

This pudding should be mixed several days before cooking, 
then well beaten, and more milk should be added, if required. 
Make this into two puddings, put in cotton bags and boil four 
hours. By changing the bags, and hanging in a cool, dry place, 
they will keep six months and be the better for it. Steam and 
serve with sauce made as follows : 

One cup of sugar, one of butter. Beat well together: 
Break an egg in and mix well. Add a tablespoonful of wine 
or brandy, and serve immediately. — Mrs. F. 

English Plum Pudding. 

1 pound of stale bread grated. 

1 pound currants. 

1 pound sugar. 

1 pound of suet chopped as fine as floiu-. 

^ of a pound of raisins, and the same of citron. 



368 OHEISTMAS PLUM PUDDING PLUM PaDDING. 

When ready to boil, wet the above with ten eggs, wtil. 
beaten, two wine-glasses of wine and the same of brandy. 
Grate the rinds of two lemons, pare and chop them and beat all 
well together. Then dip a strong cloth in boiling water and 
wring it dry. Lay it on a waiter, greasing well with butter. 
Put it in a large bowl and pour the pudding in, putting two 
sticks in the cloth across each other, and tying below the sticks. 
Eave the water boiling and throw in the pudding as soon as 
tied. Put a plate at the bottom of the pot and boil four 
houvs. — Mrs. Dr. S. 

Christmas Plum Pudding. 

Half a loaf of bread (grated). 

1 pound currants. 

2 pounds stoned raisins. 
1 pound chopped suet. 

6 eggs, and 2 pieces of citron cut up. 
Beat the yolks of the eggs with two cups of ilonr and some 
milk, then stir in the other ingredients, adding a little salt and 
ginger. If too stiff, add more milk. The water must be boil- 
ing when the pudding is put in. It will take two hours to 
cook. — Mrs. M. E. J. B. 

Plum Pudding. 

8 eggs (the yolks and whites beaten very light). 

1 pint of suet chopped fine. 

1 pint of sweet milk. 

\^ pint stoned raisins, rubbed in flour. 

1 quart of bread crumbs rubbed till very fine. 

Half pint citron sliced thin. 

1 teacup of light brown sugar. 
Grease and flour your mould, pour your pudding in, boil two 
hours, and eat with rich boiled sauce, made of sugar, butter, 
wme, and nutmeg. — -Mrs. S. G. G. 



RECIPE FOE A SrMPLEB PLUM PUDDING. 5Gi) 

Hedpe for a simpler Plum Pudding. 
3 cupfuls flour. 
1 cupful raisins. 
1 cupful brown sugar. 
1 cupful buttermilk. 
^ cup molasses. 

1 cup of suet, or half a cup of butter. 

2 eggs. 

1 teaspoonful soda. 
Boil and eat with sauce. — Mrs. JE. B. 

Economical Plum Pudding. 
4 cupfuls flour. 
1^ cup of suet. 

1 cupful milk. 

2 cupfuls raisins. 

1 cupful molasses. 

2 eggs, and 1 teaspoonful of soda. 
Boil four hours. — Mrs. L. 

Another Recipe for the Same. 
One bowl of raisins, one of currants ; one of bread crumbs ; 
one bowl of eggs ; one of brown sugar ; one of suet ; citron at 
pleasure. Boil four hours. — Mrs. L. 

Original Pudding. 
Reserve a portion of light dough intended for breakfast. 
Set it in a cool place, and four hours before dinner, roll thin, 
without kneading. Sprinkle thickly over it, first, a layer of 
sliced citron, then a layer of seeded raisins. Roll up and lay 
on a buttered bread-pan till very light. Then either boil in a 
cloth, prepared by wetting first and then flouring (the pudding 
being allowed room for rising in tliis cloth), or set the pan in 
thu stove and bake. In the latter case, after it becomes a ]igh< 
brown, it must be covered with a buttered paper. 
16* 



370 STEAMED PUDDING AMHEE8T PUDDING. 

Dough for French rolls or mu£Sn bread is especially adapted 
Co this kind of pudding. — Mrs. S. T. 

Steamed Pudding. 
\ pound of seeded raisins. 
4 eggs. 

2 cupfuls of sugar. 

3 cupfuls of flour. 

1 cupful of sour cream. 

1 teaspoonful of soda. 

2 teaspoonfuls of cream tartar. 

Let it steam two hours. Have the water boiling fast, and 
don't open till it has boiled two hours. — Mrs. Dr. J". 

Boiled Pudding. 

One pound of flour, twelve ounces of butter, eight ounces oi 
sugar, twelve ounces of fruit (either dried cherries or two kinds 
of preserves). A little mace and wine. 

Boil like a plum pudding. 

Sauce for the Same. 
One pint of cream, large spoonful of butter, one glass of wine. 
Season to the taste. Let it cook, but not come to a boil. — Mrs. 
A.F. 

Anoth&r SoMce. 
Cream half a pound of butter ; work into it six tablespoon- 
fuls of sugar; beat in one egg, add a wine-glass of wine or 
brandy, and half a grated nutmeg. Set it on the fixe, and as 
soon as it boils, serve it for the table. — Mrs. F 

Amherst Pudding. 
3 cupfuls of flour. 
1 cupful of suet. 
1 cupful of milk. 



BOILED PUDDING OF ACID FEUIT — TBO^ PUDDING. 371 

1 cupful of molasses. 

2 cupfuls of raisins. 
1 teaspoonful of salt. 

1 teaspoonful of cloves and the same of cinnamon. 
^ teaspoonful of soda, dissolved in milk. 
To be boiled three hours in a coarse bag, and eaten with wine 
sauce. — Mrs. "W. 

Boiled Pudding of Acid Fruit. 

1 quart of flour (or the weight in stale bread). 

2 eggs. 

1 pint of milk. 

1 teaspoonful of salt. 

\ pound of dried fruit. 
If apples are used, plump them out by pouring boiling water 
on them, and let them cool before using them. Season with 
mace and nutmeg, and eat with sauce. — Mrs. T. 

Cheery Pudding. 
3 cupfuls of flour. 
2 cupfuls of fruit. 
1 cupful of molasses. 

1 cupful of milk. 

2 teaspoonfuls of cream tartar. 

1 teaspoonful of soda, put in the flour. 

1 cupful of suet. 

Mix well, put in a buttered mould, and boil three hours iiiiJ a 

half.— ilfis« E. T. 

Troy Pudding. 

1 cupful of milk. 

1 cupful of molasses. 

\ cupful of currants. 

\ cupful of butter. 

1 teaspoonful of baking soda, dissolved in the milk. 

1 teaspoonful of ginger. 

1 teaspoonful of ground cloves. 



37?/ SWEET POTATO EOLL BOILED PUDDING. 

Enough flour to make it as stiff as soft gingerbread. Put ii 
in a mould, and steam four hours. If no steamer is at hand, 
tie the mould in a cloth and boil four hours. 

Sauce: One egg (frothed), one cupful of powdered sugar, 
one cupful of cream or milk, boiled with a small piece of butter. 
Add wine, if you like. — Mrs. W. G. M. 

Sweet Potato Poll. 
Prepare pastry as for cherry roll. Spread it out, and cover 
it with layers of boiled sweet potatoes, thoroughly mashed. 
Pour over it melted butter and sugar, highly flavored with 
lemon. Roll it up, boil in a bag, and serve with butter and 
sugar sauce. — Mrs. Dr. J. F. G-. 

Boiled Sweetmeat Pudding. 
Twelve ounces flour and eight ounces butter rolled in a 
square sheet of paste. Spread over the whole sweetmeats (or 
stewed fruit, if more convenient). Roll closely and boil in a 
cloth. Pour sauce over it. — Mrs. T. 

Boiled Bread Pudding. 

Pour one quart milk over a loaf of grated stale bread. Let 
it stand till near dinner time. Then beat six eggs very light 
and add them to the bread and milk, together with a little flour, 
to make the whole stick. Flour the bag and boil. Eat with 
sauce. — Mrs. tT. A. J3. 

Boiled JBread Pudding. {Economical.) 
Soak one pound stale bread in enough milk to make a pud- 
ding. When soft, beat it up with two eggs and three table- 
spoonfuls flour. Pour in a large lump of butter, melted. Put 
in any sort of fruit you like, and then boil. — Miss M. T. 

Boiled Pudding. 

One quart milk, four eggs, lard size of turkey's egg. Floui 
enough to make a batter for a teac ip of fruit. 
Boil and eat with sauce. — Mrs. R. 



paste foe boiled dumplings — suet pdddlntt. 373 

Paste for Boiled Dumplings. 
One quart flour, three good-sized Irish potatoes (boiled and 
mashed). One tablespoonful butter, and the same of lard. 
One teaspoonful soda, and two teaspoonfuls cream of tartar.- 
Mrs. E. W. 

Apple Dumplings. 

Three pints of flour, one and one-half pint of milk, one large 
tablespoonful of butter, one egg. As many apples (chopped 
fine) as the batter will take. BoU two hours in a well-floured 
cloth. 

The water should be boiling when the dumplings are dropped 
in, and it should be kept boiling all the while, else they will be 
heavy. Eat with sauce. — Mrs. G. iV. 

Boiled Molasses Pudding. 
1 cupful molasses. 
1 cupful sweet milk. 
4 cupfuls sifted flour. 
1 cupful stoned raisins. 
^ cupful butter. 
1 teaspoonful soda. 
1 teaspoonful salt. 
Boil or steam in a pudding mould. Eat with wine sauce. — 
Mrs. McG. 

Suet Pudding. 

1 quart flour. 

2 teacups suet, chopped fine. 
1 teaspoonful salt. 

Mix the suet with two-thirds of the flour, reserving the rest 
of the flour to roll the dough in. Put in a cloth and boil one 
hour. — Mrs. B. 

Suet Pudding, 
1 pint milk. 

3 eggs, well beaten. 



374 SUET DUMPLINGS PEUIT PUDDING. 

^ pound finely chopped suet. 
1 teaspoonful powdered ginger, 
1 teaspoonful salt. 
A dd fiour gradually, till you have made it into a thick batter. 
Boil two or three hours, and serve with hot sauce. — Mrs. P, W. 

Suet Dumplings. 

Rub into one quart flour, one-half pound beef suet, free of 
skin, and chopped very fine. Add a little salt, one teaspoonful 
of soda dissolved in buttermilk, one pound fruit, either apples, 
dried cherries, or dried peaches cut very fine, and sufficient 
water to make it into dough. Make it into dumplings half an 
inch thick, boil two or three hours, and eat with a sauce made 
of butter, sugar, and wine. — Mrs. G. S. 

Eve's Pudding. 

•J pound finely grated bread crumbs. 
■J- pound finely chopped apples. 
4 eggs. 

6 ounces sugar. 

2 ounces citron, and lemon peel. 
■J pound finely chopped suet. 
^ pound currants. 
A little nutmeg. 
Butter the mould well, and boil three hours. — Mrs. H. T. 8. 

Fbuit Pudding. 

4 eggs. 
1 pint milk. 
4 tablespoonfuls flour. 
1 tablespoonful butter. 
Apples or peaches cut in thin slices, and dropped in the bat 
ter. Serve with sauce. — Mrs. Dr. 8. 



baked peach dumplings oheeey pudding. 376 

Baked Peach Dumplings. 
Make up one quart of flour as for soda biscuit. Roll like 
pastry, putting on bits of lard or butter several times. Make 
out the dough like biscuit, roll thin and on each piece put two 
or three pieces of canned peaches. (Peach preserves or marma- 
lade would answer also. ) Add a teaspoonful of butter, and (if 
you use canned peaches) a tablespoonful of sugar to each dump- 
ling. Draw the edges firmly together and place them in a deep, 
large baking-dish. Put sugar and butter between, and pour, 
over all, the syrup from the can. (Use a three-pound can for 
this quantity of flour. ) Bake quickly and serve with or with- 
out sauce. A good substitute for the old-fashioned " pot peach 
pie." Baked apple dumplings may be made in the same way. 
—Mrs. S. T. 

Currant Pudding. 
1 pound currants. 
1 teaspoonful soda. 
1 teaspoonful salt. 
Nutmeg to suit the taste. Citron will improve the flavor. 
Eat with wine sauce. — Mrs. Dr. E. 



Raspberry Pudding. 
One pint flour, six eggs, yolks and whites beaten separately. 
Mix the eggs with a pint of milk and one cupful of buttei-. 
Into this stir the flour. Make the berries very sweet. Mash 
them and stir them into the batter. Bake in a dish and serve 
with sauce. — Mrs. G. G. 

Cherry Pudding. 

10 eggs. 

I cupful melted butter. 

1 quart milk, make in a thick batter. 

1 pound dried cherries (stoned). — Mrs. Dr. E. 



376 apple pudding — deied apple pudding. 

Apple Puddcno, 
1 pound apples stewed very dry. 
1 pound sugar. 
J pound butter. 
Yolks of 7 eggs. 
Rind and juice two lemons. 
Bake in a paste. — Mrs. Dr. E. 

Delicious Apple Pudding. 
Three eggs, one cupful sugar, one cupful melted butter, one 
cupful sweet milk, one and one-third cupful of apples, one tea- 
spoonful essence of lemon; baked in pastry. This quantity 
will make two plates. — Mrs. M. M. D. 

Apple Pudding. 
Boil and strain twelve apples as for sauce. Stir in one-quar- 
ter pound butter, and the same of sugar. When cold, add four 
eggs, well beaten. Pour into a baking-dish thickly strewn with 
crumbs, and strew crumbs on the top. When done, grate white 
sugar on top. — Mrs. M. 

Apple Pudding. 
1 quart chopped apples. 
1 pint flour. 
1 pint new milk. 
3 eggs. 
Bake quickly after mixing, and eat with sauce. — Miss E. T. 

Dried Apple Pudding. 
Wash ten ounces of apples well in warm water. Boil them 
in a quart of water. When soft, add ten ounces of sugar, eight 
ounces of butter, the juice and grated rind of two lemons. 
When cold and ready to bake, add five beaten eggs. Bake with 
or without pastry. Ten ounces of apples will make a commor 
sized pudding. — Mrs. R. 



baked apple koll apple charlotte. 377 

Baked Apple Roll. 
Make a paste, roll out thin. Spread over it apples cut in 
thin slices. Sprinkle nice sugar, and put bits of butter all over 
this. Roll it up, place it in a baking-pan. Pour in water an<* 
put sugar and butter around it, grating over all a nutmeg. 
Any other kind of fruit can be made into the same kind of roll. 
—Mrs. S. T. 

Apple Meringue, with custwrd. 

1 quart apple-sauce. 

Juice of a lemon. 

Whites of 4 eggs. 

1 large cup of sugar. 
Strain apple-sauce through a colander. Put it in the dish in 
which it is to be served. Beat the whites to a stiff froth, add- 
ing a little sugar. Cover the apples with the frosting. Set in 
the oven to brown, and eat with whipped cream or soft custard. 
—Mrs. G. W. P. 

Apple Meringue. 
Stew the apples until well done and smooth. Sweeten to 
the taste ; add the rind of a grated lemon. Beat the whites of 
five eggs to a stiff froth ; add to them a teacup powdered sugar, 
a little rose water, juice of a lemon, or any seasoning preferred. 
Put the fruit in a flat dish, and put the egg on with a spoon. 
Brown a few minutes. Add a little butter to the apples while 
hot.— Jfrs. C. McG. 

Apple Custard Pudding. 
Stew six sour apples in half a cup of water. Rub through a 
sieve and sweeten. Make a custard of three pints milk, six 
eggs, four tablespoonfuls sugar. Put the apples in a pudding- 
dish, pour the custard over them, and bake slowly half an hour. 
—Mrs. M. B. B. 

Apple Charlotte. 

Equal quantities stewed apples and bread crumbs, one spoon 

32 



378 APPLE OtrSTAED OEANGE PUDDING. 

■ful butter, three eggs beaten up and stirred in at the last, just 
before baking. Spoonful wine, cinnamon, nutmeg, lemon peel, 
and plenty of brown sugar. Stir together, and bake quite a 
long time. — Mrs. I. H. 

Apple Custabd. 
\\ pint stewed apples. 
^ pound sugar. 
Set them away til ,old. 

Eeat six eggs veiy light, and stir in gradually a quart sweet 
milk. Mix all together, pour in a deep dish, and bake twenty 
minutes. — Mrs. F. 

Citron Pudding. 
Yolks of 8 eggs. 
\ pound sugar. 
\ pound butter (melted). 
Two tablespoonfuls of cracker soaked in a teacup of new 
milk, and made into a paste with a spoon. A glass of wine, a 
little nutmeg, all well beaten together and poured over sliced 
citron, laid on a rich paste. After baking it, pour over it the 
whites beaten to a stiff froth, sweetened with four tablespoon- 
fuls of powdered sugar, and flavored to the taste. Put it in 
the stove again, and bake a light brown. — Mrs. S. T. 

Oibron PudMng. 
Yolks of 12 eggs. 
•J- pound butter. 
1 pound sugar. 
Stir in the butter while warming the eggs. Cut the citron in 
pieces and drop in the mixture. Have a rich paste, and bake in 
a quick oven. — Mrs. S. 

Geange Pudding. 
Peel and cut five good oranges into thin slices, taking out the 
seed. Pour over them a coffee-cup of white sugar. Let a pint 



OEANGE PUDI/IKG. 379 

of milk get boiling hot by setting it in some boiling water. Add 
yolks of three eggs well beaten, one tablespoonful corn starch, 
made smooth with a little milk. Stir all the time, and as soon 
as thickened pour over the fruit. Beat the whites to a stiff 
froth, adding a tablespoonful of sugar, spread over the top. Sot 
it in the oven a few minutes to harden. Serve either hot or 
cold.— ilfrs. E. P. a. 

Orange Pudding. 
Yolks of 16 eggs. 
1 pound powdered sugar. 
1 pound butter, creamed. 
The rinds of two oranges, grated, and the juice of one lemon. 
—Mrs. Dr. T. W. 

Orange Pudding. 
Take skin of a large orange, boil it soft, pound it, and add 
the juice of one orange, with the juice of a lemon, ten eggs, 
one pound butter, one pound sugar ; beat to a cream ; add 
glass of wine, brandy, and rose water. — Mrs. J. T. G. 

Orange Pudding. 
Pare two oranges, beat very fine, and add half a pound of 
sugar, and half a pound of butter, washed. Beat the yolks of 
sixteen eggs, and add to them the other ingredionts, well mixed 
and beaten together. Bake in a puff-paste. For eight or ten 
persons. — Mrs. F. 

Orange Pudding. 
Put two oranges and two lemons into five quarts of water. 
Boil them till the rinds are tender, then take them out, slice 
them thin, and take out the seed. Put a pound of sugar into 
a pint of water. When it boils, slice into it twelve pippins, 
sliced and cored. Lay in the lemons and oranges ; stew them 
tender. Cover the dish with puff-paste. Put in the fruit care 



380 



LEMON PUDDING. 



fully, in alternate layers. Pour over the syrup, put some slips 
of paste across it, and bake it. — Mrs. E. 

Lemon Pudding. 
\ pound sugar. 

\ pound butter, well creamed. 
Yolks of 8 eggs. 
Pour this mixture into a rich crust of pastry, after adding 
the grated rind of two lemons. Then partially bake it. Beal 
the whites very stiff, and add a spoonful of sugar for each egg 
Then add the juice of two lemons, pour this m6ringue over the 
pudding and brown it quickly. — Mrs. I. D. 

Lemon Puddhng. 
■J pound butter, 
f pound sugar. 
6 eggs. 
^ pint milk. 
3 lemons, j uice and rind. — Miss E. W. 

Lemon Pudding. 
6 eggs. 

f pound sugar. 
J pound butter. 
Juice of two lemons. 
Pour on the butter boiling hot. — Mrs. E. S. 

Lemon Pudding. 

6 eggs. 

7 tablespoonfuls sugar 
1 tablespoonful flour. 

1 tablespoonful butter. 
1 pint of buttermilk. 
Season with extract of lemon, beat well and bake in a crust. 
—Mrs. A. G. 



LEMON M^EINGUE COCOANUT PUDDING. 381 

Lemon Mii^RiNGUE. 
One pint of bread crumbs soaked in a quart of new inilk. 

1 cup of sugar. 
Yolks of 4 eggs. 
Grated rind of 1 lemon. 

Beat these ingredients light and bake as custard. Then 
spread on fruit jelly or stewed apples (fresh). Froth the whites 
with four tablespoonfuls of sugar and juice of the lemon. 
Spread over the top and brown. — Mrs. Ool. S. 

Lemon Mtringue. 
The rind of two small lemons and the juice of one. 

2 cupfuls sugar. 
^ cup butter. 

■J cup cream (or sweet milk). 

6 eggs, beaten separately. 
Leave out the whites of two eggs, which must be mixed with 
sugar and put on top of the pudding just before it is done. 
Bake in a rich paste. — Mrs. H. 

Almond Pudding. 
Blanch a pound of almonds, pound them with rose water to 
prevent their oiling; mix with them four crackers, pounded, 
six eggs, a pint, of milk or cream, a pound of sugar, half a 
pound of butter, four tablespoonfuls of wine. Bake on a 
crust.— i!frs. Dr. T. W.' 

CoooANUT Pudding. 
Two grated cocoanuts. 
1 pound sugar. 
J pound butter. 
8 eggs, leaving out 4 whites. 
Beat the eggs separately and to the yolks add the butter, 
sugar, cocoanut, and whites. Add a little wine or brandy, if 
you like. Bake in tins lined with pastry. — Mrs. D. Ji. 



382 COOOANtTT PUDDING CHOCOLATE PUDDINCf. 

Cocoanut Pudding. 
One-half pound butter, one-half pound sugar, a whole cocoar 
nut gi'ated, five eggs beaten to a froth, leaving out two whites 
Bake in plates with pastry underneath. The oven must not be 
toohot.— J!/rs. I. H. 

Gococmut Pudding. 
Stir together, 

•J pound butter. 
^ pound sugar. 
A glass of wine. 

6 eggs (beaten light). 

When all these ingredients have been stirred together till 
light, add a pound of grated cocoanut, mixed with a little 
stale cake. — Mrs. E. T. 

Cocoanut Pudding. 
1 pound sugar. 
\ pound butter, 
f pound grated cocoanut. 
\ pint cream. 

7 whole eggs, or 9 whites and 2 yolks. 
1 lemon. 

Half a nutmeg. 
Stir butter and sugar as for cake. Beat eggs well. Bake 
some time. — Mrs. E. G. 

Cocoanut Pudding. 
One grated cocoanut, one pound of sugar, one quarter of a 
pound of melted butter, and six eggs. — Mrs. M. S. O. 

Chocolate Pudding. 
Scrape fine three ounces of chocolate. Add to it a teaspoonful 
of powdered nutmeg and one of cinnamon. Put it in a sauce- 
pan, and pour over it a quart of rich milk, stirring it well. 
Cover it and let it come to a boil. Then remove the lid, stir 



OHOOOLATJE PUDDING QUEEN OF PUDDINGS. 383 

up the chocolate from the bottom and press out the lumps. 
When dissolved and smooth, put it on the fire again. Next stir 
in, gradually and while it is boiling hot, half a pound white 
sugar. Set it away to cool. Beat six or eight eggs very light. 
Pour into the pan of chocolate when quite cold. Stir the whole 
very hard. Put it in an oven and bake well. It will bake best 
by being put in a pan of boiling water. Eat cold. — Mrs. J. B. 
F.,Jr. 

Ghocolate Pudding. 

1 quart milk. 

3 eggs. 
Sugar to taste. 

2 tablespoonfuls corn-starch, dissolved in milk. 

4 tablespoonfuls chocolate 

Set the milk on the fire, and just before it boils put in the 
eggs, sugar, and corn-starch. Let it boil about a minute, then 
take it oflF the fire and add the chocolate. 

Chocolate Meringue. 
One quart milk and yolks of four eggs, made into custard. 
Three tablespoonfuls powdered chocolate, put into a cup of 
warm water. One tablespoonful of corn-starch. Sweeten to 
your taste and let all boil together. Then put it in a baking- 
dish, and when done, cover with a miringue of the whites of 
eggs and white sugar. Put in the oven again to brown, a few 

minutes. — Mrs. B. 

Oaromel Pudding. 

Cream together one cupful of butter, and one of sugar. Add 
five eggs (yolks and whites beaten separately) and one cupful 
of preserved damsons, removing the seed. Beat all together 
very light and season with a teaspoonful vanilla. Bake on pas- 
try. — Mrs. A. J). 

Queen op Puddings. 

Take slices of sponge cake and spread with preserves or jelly. 
Place them in a deep dish. Make a ou.stard with one quart of 



384 QUEEN OF PUDDINGS. 

milk and yolks of four eggs. Sweeten and season to the taste 
and pour over the cake. Beat the whites stiff, adding five or 
six spoonfuls of sugar and seasoning with lemon. Spread this 
over the top of the pudding and hake a very light brown. — Mrs. 
M.B. 

Queen of Pvddmgs. 

1 pint bread crumbs. 

1 quart milk. 

1-J- cupful of sugar. 

Yolks of 4 eggs, well beaten. 

1 teacup of butter, well creamed. 

Grated rind of one lemon. 
Bake until done, but not watery. Whip the whites of the 
four eggs (above mentioned) very stiff and beat into a teacup 
of sugar, into which has been strained the juice of the lemon 
aforesaid. Spread over the top of the pudding, after it has 
slightly cooked, a layer of jelly or sweetmeats. Then pour over 
it the dressing of eggs, sugar, and lemon, and set it in the oven 
to brown. — Mrs. B. J. B. 

Queen of Puddings. 

1^ cupful white sugar. 

2 cupfuls fine dry bread crumbs. 

Yolks of 5 eggs. 

1 tablespoonful of butter, flavored to taste. 

1 quart fresh, I'ich milk. 

\ cup jelly or jam. 
Hub the butter into a cupful of the sugar, and cream these 
together, with the yolks beaten very light. The bread crumbs 
soaked in the milk come next, then the seasoning. Bake this 
in a large butter dish, but two-thirds full, till the custard is 
" set." Spread over the top of this a layer of jam or jelly and 
cover this with a mSringue made of the whipped whites and the 
half cupful of sugar. Bake till the mSringue begins to color. 
Mrs. D. C. K. 



QUEEN OF PUDDINGS — TAPIOCA PUDDING. 385 

Queen of Puddings. 
Saturate tlie crumbs of a loaf of bread with a quart of rich 
milk. Add to this the yolks of six eggs, two tablespoonfuls of 
butter, three-quarters pound of sugar. Beat well together, sea- 
son to taste, and when well stirred, put it on to bake. When 
nearly done, spread over it a layer of fruit jam or jelly and whites 
of the eggs well beaten. Sift sugar on top and bake. — Mrs. J. 

r. G. 

M&ringue Pudding or Queen of Puddings. 

Fill a baking dish within one and a half inch of the top with 
slices of sponge cake, buttered slightly on both sides, scattering 
between the slices, seeded raisins (about half a pound). Over 
this pour a custard made of a quart of milk, the yolks of eight 
eggs, sweetened to the taste. 

As soon as it has baked a light brown, make an icing of the 
eight whites and put it on top. Set again in the oven to brown 
a little. Eat with sauce of butter and sugar. — Mrs. H. P. 

Tapioca Pudding. 

4 tablespoonfuls of tapioca. 

1 quart of milk. 

The yolks of 4 eggs. 

Whites of 2 eggs. 

1 tablespoonful of sugar. 
Soak the tapioca over night or several hours in a little water, 
boil the milk and turn over the tapioca and when it is blood- 
warm, add the sugar and the eggs well beaten, flavor the pud- 
ding with lemon or rose water. Bake it about an hour. After 
it has cooled a little add the two remaining whites of the eggs 
and one-half pound of white sugar beaten together for frosting. 
This serves as sauce for the pudding. — Mrs. A. P. 

Tapioca Pudding. 
Wash a teacup of tapioca in warm water and let it stand 

half an hour. Then stir in a custard made of a quart of milk, 

.S3 



386 TAPIOCA PODDING— SNOW PUDDING. 

four eggs, a smal) piece of butter, and sugar to taste. Bake 
about an hour and a quarter. Stir two separate times from the 
bottom, whilst baking. — Mrs. Dr. S. 

Tapioca Pudding luith Apples. 

Soak a cupful of tapioca in three cupfuls of water, four or 
five hours, where it will be warm, but not cook. Peel and core 
six apples and stew till tender. Put them in a pudding-dish, 
filling the holes (from which the cores were extracted) with 
sugar and nutmeg or grated lemon peel. Then pour over them 
the soaked tapioca, slightly sweetened and bake three-quarters 
of an hour. To be eaten cold with sugar and cream. — Mrs. 
M W. 

Snow Pudding. 

Let a box of gelatine stand one hour in a pint of cold water. 
Then add two pints of boiling water, four cupfuls of crushed 
sugar, the juice of four lemons and the rind of the same, pared 
thin. (The latter must, however, be taken out when the pud- 
ding begins to congeal.) 

Beat the whites of six eggs to a stiff froth, adding two table- 
spoonfuls of sugar. Then beat all together till it becomes a 
stiff froth. 

Make the six yolks into a custard flavored with vanilla or 
nutmeg and pour over the pudding after it has been turned out 
of the mould.— J!fr». P. J. B. 

Snow Pudding. 

Dissolve one-half box gelatine in one pint hot water. Let it 
stand long enough to cool a little but not to congeal. Then add 
the whites of three eggs, juice of two lemons and sugar to taste. 
Beat all to a stiff froth and pour into moulds. Serve with a 
custard made of the yolks of the eggs and a pint rf mUk season- 
ed with vanilla. — Mrs. Dr. P. O. 



SNOW PUDDINQ — JELLY ROLL. 387 

Snow J'udding. 
Soak a half box of gelatine in a half pint of cold water, all 
night. In the morning, add the grated rind of two lemons 
and the juice of one, three cupfuls of white sugar and a half 
pint of boiling water. Strain into a deep vessel and add the 
unbeaten whites of tln-ee eggs. Beat constantly for three-quar- 
ters of an hour, then set it in a cool place. With the yolks of 
the eggs, make a pint of custard flavored with vanilla or rose- 
water, to put around the pudding, when congealed. — JJfrs. A. S. 

Cake Pudding. 
Take a moderate sized baking-dish, around which lay small 
sponge cakes, split and buttered on both sides. Spread them with 
marmaUide or preserves on the inside. Put in the centre of the 
dish pieces of cake buttered and spread with preserves on both 
sides. Leave room for a custard, to be made, seasoned and 
poured over the pudding before baking. Eat hot with hot sauce. 
—Mrs. V. R.I. 

Pkeserve Pudding. 
1 cupful preserves. 
1 cupful sugar. 
Nearly a cupful butter. 
5 eggs. 
Bake in pastry. — Mrs. E. B. 

Jelly Roll. 
3 eggs. 

1 cupful sugar. 
1 cupful flour. 

1 teaspoonful cream of tartar. 
\ teaspoonful soda, dissolved in milk. 
Bake in pie-pans, spread with acid jelly, roll up in a compaci 
form. — Mrs. R. 



388 sweetmeat pudding — teanspaeent pudding. 

Sweetmeat Pudding. 

Yolks of 10 eggs. 

Whites of 2. 

1 pound of sugar. 
Half a pound of butter, beaten -with the sugar, and poired 
over pastry, on which is placed a layer of sweetmeats and a 
layer of some other preserves. Any two kinds of preserves 
may be used. — Mrs. . 

Sweetmeat Pvddimg. 

^ pound of sugar. 

^ pound of butter. 

Juice and rind of one lemon. 

8 eggs. 
Mix the eggs, well beaten, with the sugar. Melt the butter 
and pour into the mixture. Line a dish with rich pastry, on 
which lay sweetmeats, damson, or peach preserves, or any other 
kind that may be convenient. On this, place one layer of the 
mixture above mentioned, then another of sweetmeats. Put a 
layer of the mixture on top, and bake. 

Cheese-cake Pudding. 

Yolks of eight fresh eggs, three-quarters of a pound of good 
brown sugar, and the same of butter, well creamed together. 

Beat the eggs light, mix all the ingredients well ; season with 
nutmeg or extract of lemon ; add a tablespoonful of good brandy 
or rum. Bake in a pastry, in small tins or plates. — Mrs. Dr. 

P. a 

Transparent Pudding. 

8 eggs, beaten very light. 
^ pound of sugar. 
■J pound of butter. 

Nutmeg, mace, or any spice for flavoring. 
Put it on the fire in a tin pan, stirring constantly till it beguur 



TEiNSPAEENT PUDDING SAGO PT7DDING. 389 

to thicken. When cool, pour it over a rich paste, and bako 
over a moderate fire. Add citron, if you like. — Mrs. Dr. E. 

Trcmspa/rent Pudding. 
\ pound of sugar. 
^ pound of butter. 
Dessertspoonful of rose water. 
Stir well till light. 
Beat four eggs very light, and add to the other ingredients. 
Butter the baking-dish, line with stale cake, sliced thin, which 
you may cover with sweetmeats of any kind. Pour the mixt- 
ure on, and bake for nearly an hour. — Mrs. I. S. 

Transpa/rent Pudding. 
Yolks of 10 eggs ; whites of 2. 
1 pound of sugar. 
^ pound of butter. 
Season with nutmeg. 
Make pastry, on which put a layer of citron or any other 
fruit. Pour the mixture over it and bake. Beat the remain- 
ing whites to a froth. Add a teacup of powdered sugar, flavor 
to taste, and pour over the top of the pudding after baking. 
Then put it again in the stove, a few minutes, to brown. — 
Mrs. E. 

Akrow-root Pudding. 

Boil a quart of milk and make it into a thick batter with 
arrow-root. Add the yolks of six eggs, half a pound of sugar, 
one-quarter of a pound of butter, half a nutmeg, and a little 
grated lemon peel. Bake it nicely in a pastry. When done, 
stick slips of citron all over the top, and pour over it the whites 
of the six eggs, beaten stift", sweetened with three or four table- 
spoonfuls of sugar, and flavored to the taste. — Mrs. S. T. 

Sago Podding. 
Boil one cupful of sago in a quart of water. Pare apples, put 



390 SAGO PUDDING — SIPPET PUDDING. 

thera in a dish and stew a little. Pour the sago ovtir them, 
and bake thirty minutes. Sweeten and flavor to the taste. — 
Mrs. A. B. 

Sago Pudding. 
Boil one pint and a half of new milk with four spoonfuls of 
sago, nicely washed and picked. Sweeten to the taste ; flavor 
with lemon peel, cinnamon, and mace. Mix all, and bake slowly 
in a paste. — Mrs. V. P. M. 

Bread Pudding. 
Slice some stale bread, omitting the crust. Butter it moder- 
ately thick. Butter a deep dish, and cover the bottom with 
slices of bread, over which put a layer of any kind of preserved 
fruit. (Acid fruits are best.) Cover all with a light layer of 
brown sugar. Make a rich cuscard, allowing four eggs to a 
pint of milk. Pour it over the pudding, and bake an hour. 
Grate nutmeg over it, when done. — Mrs. Col. S. 

Custard Pudding. 
Cut thin slices of bread. Butter them, and lay them in a 
baking-dish. Mix a cold custard of three pints of milk, the 
yolks of eight or ten eggs, beaten light ; sweeten to your taste ; 
pour over the bread ; bake, and let it stand to cool. Froth and 
sweeten the whites, pour them over the top of the piidding, and 
then put it in the stove a few minutes more to brown on top. — 
Mrs. R. 

Sippet Pudding. 

Butter a baking-dish, cut slices of light bread very thin, 
buttering them before cutting. Put them in the dish, strewing 
over each separate layer, currants, citron, raisins, and sugar. 
When the dish is full, pour over it an unboiled custard of milk 
and eggs, sweetened to the taste. Saturate the bread com- 
pletely with this, then pour on a glass of brandy and bake a 
light brown. This pudding is very nice made of stale pound oi 
sponge cake instead of light bread.- --Mrs. M. C. C. 



ME8. SPENOE's pudding FKUIT PUDDING. 391 

Mks. Spence's Pudding. {Original.) 
One pint grated bread crumbs put into one quart fresh sweet 
milk. Beat the yolks of five eggs very light. Add one tea- 
cup of sugar to them. Stir in the milk and crumbs and add 
three-quarters of a pound clipped raisins and one-quarter of a 
pound sliced citron. Season with mace. Bake nicely. 

Whip the whites of the five eggs to a stift" froth. Add one 
teacup pulverized sugar and season with extract of vanilla 
Put this over the pudding and set in the stove again to brown 
it slightly. Serve hot with a rich sauce made of sugar and 
butter seasoned with nutmeg and Madeira wine. 

Teacup Pudding. 
I teacup grated bread. 
1 teacup raisins. 
1 teacup chopped apples. 
1 teacup chopped suet. 
3 eggs. 

1 gill of cream. 
Wine glass of brandy. 
Spice and sugar to taste. — Mrs. Dr. J". 

French Pudding. 
Grate one pint stale bread. Pour over it one quart fresh 
milk, yolks of four eggs, rind of one lemon and part of juice, 
one teacup of sugar, piece of butter size of an egg. Mix all 
well, put in a pudding-dish and bake until it looks like custard. 
Then set it to cool, after which spread the top with jelly or pre- 
serves. Beat the whites of the four eggs to a stiff froth, adding 
the remaining juice of the lemon and three tablespoonfuls of 
sugar. Spread this on top the preserves, then put the pudding 
again in the oven and bake a light brown. — Mrs. 0. 

Fruit Pudding. 
1 pint grated bread crumbs. 
1 pound raisins. 



392 PUDDING WITHOUT MILK OR BGaS CKACKEE PUDDING. 

f pound su(!fc chopped fine. 
^ pound sugar. 
■J pint ctio])ped apples. 
Yolks of tliree eggs, well beaten. 
Pour over the top the whites of the three eggs, froti .ed and 
sweetened Bake an hour. — Mrs. 

Pudding without Milk ok Eggs. 
Put into a buttered baking-dish, alternate layei-s of grated 
bread, and finely chopped apples seasoned with brown .sugar, 
bits of butter and allspice. Pour over it a pint of wine and 
water mixed. Let the top layer be bread crumbs, and bake one 
hour. — Miss N. 

Marrow Pudding. 
Grate a large loaf of bread and pour on the crumbs a pint of 
rich milk, boiling hot. When cold, add four eggs, a pound of 
beef marrow, sliced thin, a gill of brandy with sugar and nut- 
meg to your taste. Mix all well together and bake it. When 
done stick slices of citron on the top. You may make a boiled 
pudding of this, if you prefer. — Mrs. E. 

Original Pudding. 

Crumb up four rolls. Pour over them a quart of fresh milk 
at the breakfast table. A half hour before dinner, beat up 
separately the yolks and whites of six eggs. After beating, 
put them together and stir them up. Take a piece of butter 
the size of a walnut, cut it in bits and throw it on top. 

Sauce. Throw in a bowl, a tablespoonful of flour and a large 
piece of butter. Cream it round and round. Add two teacups 
of sugar, one wine-glass of Hght wine, and nutmeg, and boil up. — 
Miss 11. a. 

Ora :ker PriDDING. 

P>it into a deep dish six or eight large soda crackers. Add a 
large lump of butter and a teacup of sugar. Grate the rind of 



BICE PUDDING. 393 

two lemons and squeeze the juice over the crackers. Then pour 
boiling water all over them, and allow them to stand till they 
have absorbed it and become soft. Beat the yolks and whites 
of three eggs separately. Stir them gently into the crackers. 
Butter a deep dish and pour in the mixture, baking it a nice 
brown. If not sweet enough, add sugar to the eggs before mix 
ing them. — Mrs. M. G. C. 

Rice Puddinw. 
Boil half a pound of rice in. milk, till quite tender. Then 
mash the grains well with a wooden spoon. Add three-quarters 
of a pound of sugar, and the same of melted butter, half a nut- 
meg, six eggs, a gill of wine, and some grated lemon peel. Bake 
it in a paste. For a change, it may be boiled, and eaten with 
butter, sugar, and wine. — Mrs. E. 

Rice Pudding. 
Sweeten three pints of sweet milk, and flavor with lemon or 
vanilla. Put in this a small cupful of raw rice, thoroughly 
washed. Bake, and serve cold. — Mrs. H. S. 

JRice Pudding. 
3 cupfuls boiled rice. 
6 eggs. 

1-^ cupful sugar. 
1^ pint mUk. 

1 wine-glassful wine and brandy. 
1 tablespoonful melted butter. 
Flavor with nutmeg. — Mrs. Col. S. 

Rice Pudding. 
Boil a cup of rice till nearly done, then add a pint of milk. 
When perfectly done, mash, and, while hot, add half a pound 
of butter, one pound of sugar, six fresh eggs, beaten till light. 
17* 



394: KICE PUDDmO SWEET POTATO PUDDING. 

'Beat the sugar with the eggs.) Season with wine or bi-andyj 
and one grated nutmeg. Lemon is another good seasoning for 
it. Put in rich puff paste, and bake till a light brown. — Mrs 
Dr. R. W. W. 

Rice Pudding. 
Boil one cup of rice in one quart of milk. Add six eggs and 
a small tablespoonful of butter. Sweeten and flavor to the 
taste, and bake. — Mrs. B. 

Irish Potato Pudding. 
1 pound mashed Irish potatoes. 

1 pound sugar. 

2 cupfuls butter, well creamed. 
5 eggs. 

1 teacup cream. 
1 wine-glassful brandy. 
Stir tlio ingredients thoroughly together. Bake in pastrj 
without tops. — Mrs. Dr. J. F. G. 

Sweet Potato Pudding. 
I quart grated sweet potatoes. 
10 eggs, well beaten. 

3 cupfuls sugar. 
1 cupful flour. 

1 cupful butter. 
1 quart milk. 
Bake slowly in a pan. Serve with sauce. — Mrs. G. A. B. 

Hweet Potato Pudding. 
Grate tliree or four large sweet potatoes and put them imme- 
diately in three pints of sweet milk to prevent them from turn- 
ing dark. Beat six eggs light, add four ounces melted butter, 
and mix well with potatoes and milk. Add eight tablespoon- 
fuls of sugar, and season with lemon or vanilla. Bake without 
a crust. — Mrs. W. G. R. 



BWEET POTATO PtJBDING M0LASS?;8 PUDDING. 395 

Sweet Potato Pudding. 
Boil OHO and a half pounds potatoes very tender. Add half 
a pound butter, and rub both together through a sieve. Then 
add a small civpful milk, six eggs, one and a half cupful sugar. 
Beat all together and add a little salt, the juice and rind of a 
lemon. Then beat again, and prepare pastry. Bake twenty 
minutes. It may be baked without pastry. Irish potato pud- 
ding may be made by the same recipe. — Mrs. A. C. 

Cream Pudding. 
Beat six eggs to a froth and stir into them three tablespoon- 
fuls sugar and the grated rind of a lemon. Mix one pint milk, 
one pound flour, and two teaspoonfuls salt. Add eggs and 
sugar. Just before baking, add a pint of thick cream. Bake 
in cups or pudding dishes. — Mrs. Col. W. 

Tyler Pudding. 
4 eggs. 

3 cupfuls sugar. 

1 cupful butter, washed and melted. 
1 cupful cream, seasoned with lemon. 
Bake in a paste. — Mrs. C. N. 

Molasses Pudding. 
1 cupful molasses. 
^ cupful butter and lard mixed. 
1 cup not quite full of buttermilk. 
3 eggs. 

1 teaspoonful soda. 
Flour enough to make it as thick as cake batter. If you wisli 
to eat it cold, add another cup of sugar. Bake it quickly. — Mrs, 

m: s. c. 

Molasses Pvdding. 
1 teacup sugar. 
1 teacup butter. 



396 MOLASSES PUDDING — SNOWBALL PUDDING. 

2 teacups molasses. 
2 teacups flour. 
4 eggs. 

1 tablespoonful ginger. 
1 teaspoouful soda dissolved in a few spoonfuls of buttermilk 
Eat with sauce. Excellent. 

Molasses Pudding. 
9 eggs. 

4 cupfuls molasses. 
1 teacup butter. 
Bake in a paste. — Mrs. P. TV. 

Cottage Pudding. 
Beat to a cream one large cupful of sugar and two and a half 
tablespoonfuls of lard and butter mixed. Stir in one well 
beaten egg, one large cup of buttermilk with soda dissolved in 
it. Add nutmeg to the taste. Take one pint of flour and rub 
into it, dry, two tablespoonfuls cream of tartar. Then add the 
other ingredients. Bake three-quarters of an hour and serve 
with wine sauce. — Mrs. A. F. 

Texas Pudding. 
3 eggs (yolks and whites beaten separately). 
3 cupfuls sugar. 
1 cupful butter. 
1 cupful sweet milk. 
Two tablespoonfuls of flour. Bake in a crust. This will fill 
three pie-plates.— ii/rs. McN. 

Snowball Pudding. 
Boil one quart of rich milk and then thicken it with a table- 
spoonful of flour or arrow-root. Beat up the yolks of four eggs 
with three tablespoonfuls of white sugar. Then pour the milk 
slowly into the eggs and sugar, stirring all the time. Pour this 



THICKENED MILK PITDDINQ ^WASHINGTON PUDDmO. 397 

custard into a pudding dist and brown it slightly. Beat up the 
whites to a stiff frotli, adding four tablespoonfuls of sugar, and 
flavoring with lemon. Drop it on the custard (when browned) 
in the form of balls, as large as an egg. Set it back in the stove 
to brown a little. — Mrs. S. T. 

Thickened Milk Pudding. 
Boil one pint of milk and one-half pint of water. Thicken 
with one pint of flour, and stir in three ounces butter, while 
warm. When cold, add nine eggs (well beaten), one pound 
sugar, one wine-glassful wine, and powdered cinnamon and 
mace to vour taste. — Mrs. It. 

Delicious Hasty Pudding. 
Seven eggs beaten separately. Add to the yolks gradually 
ten tablespoonfuls of .sifted flour, alternately with a quart of 
milk and half a teaspoonful of salt. Beat till perfectly smooth. 
Then add the whites, pour into a buttered dish, and bake 
twenty minutes. Eat with nun's butter or wine sauce. — Mrs. 
P.McG. 

Feather Pudding. 

2 cupfuls flour. 
1 cupful sugar. 
1 cupful sweet milk. 
1 egg. 

1 tablespoonful butter. 
1 teaspoonful cream of tartar. 
\ teaspoonful soda. 
Season •with nutmeg and eat with sauce. — Mrs. D. 0. K. 

Washington Pudding. 
6 eggs (well beaten). 
J pound butter. 
\ pound sugar. 
\ pound marmalade. 



398 ONE EGG PUDDING VIRGINIA. PUDDING. 

Beat well together, season with nutmeg, and bake in a paste. 
—Mrs. Dr. S. 

One Egg Pudding. 

1 egg. 

1 cnpful sugar. 

1 cupful milk. 

2 cupfuls flour. 

1 tablespoonful buttei'. 

1 teaspoonful soda. 

2 teaspoonfuls cream of tartar. 
Eat with sauce. — Mrs. A. 0. 

Delicious Pudding. 
Beat the yolks of six eggs very light. Stir in alternately 
three tablespoonfuls of flour and a pint of milk. Put a table- 
spoonful of melted butter and half a teaspoonful of salt in the 
batter. Then stir in the whites of the six eggs, beaten to a 
stifl' froth. Butter the baking dish or cups, fill them a little 
more than half full, and bake quickly. Eat with wine sauce. 
Make this pvidding half an hour before dinner, as it must be 
eaten as soon as done. — Mrs. S. T. 

Balloons. 

6 eggs. 

7 tablespoonfuls of flour. 
1 quart of milk. 

1 teacup of sugar. 

1 tablespoonful of butter. 

1 tablespoonful of lard. 
Cream the butter and lard with the flour. Beat the eggs 
and sugar together. Mix the milk in gradually, bake quickly, 
and eat with sauce. — Mrs. Dr. JE. 

Virginia Pudding. 
Scald one quart of milk. Pour it on three tablespoonfula of 



EXTEA FINE PUDDING EXCELLENT BATTER PUDDING. 399 

sifted flour. Add the yolks of five eggs, the whites of two, and 
the grated rind of one lemon. Bake twenty minutes. 

Sauce. — The whites of three eggs, beaten to a stiff froth, a 
full cup of sugar, then a wine-glass of wine and the juice of a 
lemon. Pour over the pudding just as you send it to the 
table. — Miss JE. S. 

ExTKA Fine Pudding. 
Make a batter of two teacupfuls of flour and four of milk. 
Beat the yolks and whites of four eggs separately. Then mix 
all together and add one tablespoonful of melted butter. Bake 
in a buttered pan and serve with wine sauce. — -Mrs. McG. 

SuPEUiOR Pudding. 
4 eggs. 
1 quart of milk. 

1 cup of sugar. 

2 tablespoonfuls of flour. 

Beat the sugar, flour, and yolks of the eggs together, with 
one cup of the milk, scald the remainder of the milk and put 
the above in it. Flavor with lemon or vanilla. Beat the 
whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, add a little sugar, spread on 
top of the pudding, and brown slightly. — Mrs. D. C. K. 

Baked Indian Pudding. 
Take nearly one pint sifted meal and make into a mush. 
Pour over it one quart of boiled sweet milk. Add one gill of 
molasses, one gill of sugar, six eggs beaten separately, half a 
pint chopped suet. If you like, add a few currants, raisins, oi 
a little citron. Bake nearly two hours. Eat with sauce, — Mvs. 

J.A.B. 

Excellent Batter Pudding. 

1 quart flour. 

7 eggs. 

\ cupful melted butter. 



400 

1 teaspoohful salt. 

1 teaspoonful soda, dissolved in lukewarm water. 

2 teaspooufuls cream of tartar, also dissolved. 

Enough sweet milk to make a batter the consistency ot 
sponge cake batter. Bake in a mould and eat with brandy 
sauce. — Mrs. M. C. G. 

Puff Pudding. 
10 eggs (beaten separately). 
10 tablespoonfuls sifted flour. 
1 quart milk. 
A little salt. 
Beat the eggs to a still' froth. Then put the flour with the 
yolks, then add the milk and lastly the whites, well beaten. 
Eat with cold or hot sauce. — Mrs. D. G. K. 

Penny Pudding. 
Beat five eggs very light. Mix with five tablespoonfuls of 
flour, one large spoonful of butter and one pint of milk. Eat 
with sauce. — Mrs. A. T. 

Economical Pudding. 
1 cup chopped suet. 
1 cupful golden syrup. 

1 cupful milk. 

2 cupfuls chopped raisins. 

3 cupfuls flour. 

1 teaspoonful soda (put in the milk). 

2 teaspoonfuls cream of tartar put in the dry flour. 
Boil three hours and a half. — Miss E. T. 

Poor Man's Pudding. 
6 eggs. 

1 pint sour cream. 
1 cupful melted butter. 
1^ cupful sugar. 



PLAIN PUDDING — WINE SAUCE. 401 

1 teaspoonful soda. 
^ nutmeg. 
Put the butter in after the flour. Make the consistency of 
pouud cake batter. — Mrs. A. B. 

Plain Pudding. 
1 pint milk. 

3 eggs. 

4 tablespoonfuls flour. 
1 tablespoonful butter. 

Put chopped apples or peaches in the batter and bake. Eat 
with sauce. — Mrs. A. M. 



PUDDING SAUCES. 



Wine Sauce. 



Dissolve one pound sugar in a little water Boil till nearly 
candied. A.dd a lump of butter the size of an egg, just before 
taking it ofi" the fire, and stir in wine and nutmeg to your taste, 
after taking it oflF. — Mrs. It. 

'Wine Scmce. 
Melt half a pound of butter, three oupfuls sugar and two ot 
Madeira wine together, for a large pudding. Put a little 'Tater 
in the stewpan and let it boil. Roll the butter in a little flour, 
and stir it in the boiling water quickly. Then add the sugar, 
and lastly the wine. — Mrs. T. 

Wine Sauce. 
One-half pound butter, j'olks of two eggs, beaten well and 
creamed with the butter ; nine tablespoonfuls nice brown sugar ; 
two glasses of wine. Let it simmer on the fire a short time. Grate 
nutmeg on it when you pour it into the sauce-bowl. — Mrs. T. 

34 



402 beandy sauce — pudding sauoe. 

Bkandy Sauce. 
Cream together one-quarter pound fresL. butter, and one 
quarter pound pulverized white sugar. Mix with it one gill of 
lemon brandy, or half the quantity of brandy ; the juice of one 
lemon, and half a nutmeg grated. Stir it slowly into half a cup 
of boiling water, and after letting it .simmur a moment, pour 
into a warm sauce tureen. — Miss E. P. 

French Sauce. 
Cream half a pound butter, and stir in half a pound sugar. 
Then add the yolk of an egg, and a gill of wine. Put it on the 
fire ; stir till it simmers. Grate niitmeg over it, after taking it 
off the fire.— Jfrs. F. D. 

A Nice Sauce for Puddings. 

Half a pound of butter ; eight tablespoonfuls brown sugar ; 
one nutmeg (grated), the white of one egg. 

The butter must be creamed and the sugar beaten into it, then 
the egg. The wine poured gently in and stirred till the sauce 
is cold, then grate the nutmeg. Make it in a common sauce 
tureen, on the hearth, stirring all the while. Do not let it boil. 
—Mts. M. E. J. B. 

Rich Sauce for Puddings. 
One pint cream ; half pound sugar ; one tablespoonful butter ; 
one glass of wine. Season to the taste. Do not let it boil. — 
Miss E. P. 

Sauce for Pudding. 
Two large cupfuls brown sugar ; one large cupful butter ; one 
teacup wine ; a little rose water. Boil the sugar and wine 
together. Then add the butter and grated nutmeg. — Mrs. 
McG. 

Pudding Sauce. 

One cupful cream, from morning's milk ; two cupfuls sugar ; 
one egg, well beaten ; one tablespoonful butter ; one teaspoonfu) 



COLD SAUCE— LEMON SAUCE. 4:03 

corn-starch. Boil all together till a thick syrup. Take off the 
fire and add gi-ated nutmeg and a glass of wine. — Mrs. S. T. 

Cold Sauce. 
Whites of five eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Sweeten to the 
taste. Pour in some hot melted butter, stirring well. Season 
with lemon.— Jfrs. M. G. H. 

Cold Sauce. 
Half a pound of butter and half a j)ound of sugar (powdei-nd), 
beaten to a froth. The juice and grated rind of a lemon, o'- 
essence of any kind, as a flavor. — Mrs. M. F. G. 

Cold Sauce {for about eight people). 
One heaping tablespoonful of butter, creamed till very light, 
adding sugar till as thick as you can stir. Then add two table- 
spoonftils of very rich milk, a glass of good wine, and a little 
grated nutmeg. — Mrs. P. McG. 

Pudding Sauce. 
One cupful of butter ; two cupfuls sugar ; tliree eggs ; one 
wine-glass of wine. Stir well, and lot it come to a boil. — Mrs. 
F. I). 

Pudding Sauce. 
Cream together half a pound of sugar and butter. Add the 
yolk of one egg, the juice of a lemon, and a glass of wine. Stir 
over a slow fire, but don't boil. — Mrs. Me G. 

Lemon Sauce. 
One pound sugar ; tlireo ounces butter ; half a teacup of 
water. Juice and sliced rinds of two lemons. Pour this into a 
saucepan, and while it is coming to a boil, beat the yolks of two 
eggs and add them. When well boiled, take it from the fire 
and add the whites of tlic: two egg", beaten to a froth. To be 
eaten hot witli sponge cake. — Mrs. K. 



404: sa0ce foe boiled pastry pastey pies. 

Sauce for Boiled Pastry. 

Stew for lifteen minutes one pint of watev, half a pound 
of sugai-, and a piece of butter as large as an egg. Beat the 
yolks of three eggs. Remove the pan from the fire, and pour 
several spoonfuls of its conteuts into the beaten eggs, stirring 
briskly. Then pour all into the pan, place it over a slow file 
and stir till it thickens. Season with lemon or vanilla. — Mra. 
I.H. 

Molasses Sauce. 

Moderately boil a pint of molasses from five to twenty 
minutes, according to its consistency. Add three eggs well 
beaten. Stir them and continue to boil a few minutes longer. 
Season with nutmeg and lemon. — Mrs. Dr. «7". 



PASTRY. 

Pastry has fallen somewhat into disfavor, on account of its 
unwholesome properties, but as many persons still use it, we 
will give some directions for making it as wholesome and palat- 
able as possible. 

It is a great mistake to use what is called " cooking butter " 
and old lard for pastry. Only fresh butter and sweet lard should 
be employed for the purpose, and in summer these sliould be 
placed on ice before being used for pastry. Pastry, like cake, 
should be made in the cool of the morning, and it should be 
eaten fresh, as, unlike cake, it will not admit of being kept. 

If a marble slab cannot be obtained, it is well to keep a thick 
wooden board exclusively for rolling out pastry. Handle as 
little as possible, and if anything should prevent you from put- 
ting it on to bake as soon as it is rolled out, put it on ice in the 
interim, as this will make it nicer and more flaky. Sometimes 



KXGELLKNT KKOIPE FOE PASTRY — PUFF PASTE. 4.05 

there is a delay about getting the oven or fire ready, in which 
case the cook generally leaves the pastry lying on the kitchen 
table ; but its quality would be much improved if it were put on 
the ice instead, whilst waiting to be baked. 

Excellent Recipe fob Pastry. 
Four teacups flour, one teacup firm butter, one teacup nice 
lard, one teacup ice water, one teaspoonful salt. Mix the lard 
and butter in the flo\ir with a large, flat knife, then add the ice 
water. Do not touch it with the hands. Take it up in a rough- 
looking mass, roll it out quicklj — not too thin. Cut it with a 
very shai-p knife around the edges of the patty-jjans. When 
intending to bake lemon puddings or cheese-cakes, let the pastry 
bake four or five minutes before adding butter, as this prevents 
the pastry from being heavy at the bottom. In summer it is best 
to put five teacups of flour, instead of four. — Mrs. M. C. C. 

Pastry. 

One pound fresh butter, one quart flour. Make up the dough 
with ice watei\ Divide the butter into parts. Roll out, and 
cover thickly with one part of the butter. Continue till all is 
rolled, sifting flour each time. Don't handle much, or it will be 
heavy. — 3Irs. W. 

Pastry. 

Mix with water one quart flour and two teaspoonfuls salt. 
Work well and roll out thin. Spread over with lard, sift flour 
over the dough, and cut it in strips of two inches. Lay them 
in a pile one above another, cut them in squares, and again pile 
them up. Press down with the hands, and roll out thin as 
before. Repeat this several times, and the pastry will be im- 
proved each time. Do not use your hands after the roller is 
applied. 

Puff Paste. 

One pound flour, to be made up with cold water and beaten 
fifteen minutes. One pound butter (or half lard, if you have 



406 LEMON PIE. 

not enough butter), which must be spread on the dough foui 
times and rolled in. 

It must be made thin, put in tins, and baked in a moderate 
oven. 

Lemon Pie. 

Grate the rind and squeeze the juice of two lemons. Stii 
two tablespoonfuls corn-starch into two teacups hot water, and 
boil, stirring well. Add three-quarters of a pound of granu 
lated sugar. When cool, add the yolks of four eggs well beaten, 
then the lemon-juice and grated rind, stirring the whole well 
together. Line the plates with rich pastry, and pour the mixt- 
ure in. Bake until the crust is done. Beat the whites of the 
eggs very light, add six ounces powdered sugar, pour over the 
pies, set them again in the oven, and slightly brown. This will 
make two pies. — Mrs. T. M. C. 

Lemon Pie. 
One cupful sugar, one cupful sweet milk, one tablespoonful 
flour, one tablespoonfvil butter, three eggs, one lemon. Mix the 
grated rind and juice of the lemon with the yolks of the eggs 
and the sugar. Add the milk next, and then the butter and 
flour. Bake in a paste. After it is cold, spread on the whites 
of the eggs, frothed and sweetened. — -Mrs. Mc G. 

Lemon Pie. 
Yolks of four eggs, white of one, beaten very light ; grated 
rind and juice of one large lemon ; five heaping tablespoonfuls 
sugar. Bake in an undercrust till the pastry is done. Froth 
the whites of three eggs with five tablespoonfuls sugar. Spread 
over the pies and bake again till brown. — Mrs. Col. S. 

Lemon Pie. 

One tablespoonful but-ier, creamed with two cups of sugar, 
yolks of six eggs, grated rind and juice of four lemons, foui 
heaping tablespoonfuls flour. Mix well. Add a cupful butter- 



LEMON CREAM PIE — ^PEAOH MERINGUE PIE. 407 

milk, and one teaspoonful soda. Froth and sweeten the whites 
of the eggs and put tliem on top the pies. — Mrs. JV. 

Lemon Cream Pie. 
One cupful sugar, one of water ; one raw potato, grated ; juice 
and grated rind of one lemon. Bake in pastry, top and bottom. 

Orange Pie. 
Pulp and juice of two oranges, a little of the grated peel, the 
yolks of three eggs, one cupful sugar, one cupful milk. Stir 
the yolks with the sugar, then a tablespoouful of butter, then 
the juice, lastly the milk. Bake in a dish. After the pie has 
cooled, spread on it the whites of the three eggs, stiffly frothed 
and sweetened. Then set it again on the fire, to brown slightly. 
—Mrs. McGr. 

Orange JPie. 

One quart milk, eight eggs, one small teacup rolled cracker, 
half a cupful butter, two grated fresh oranges, or the juice and 
chopped peel of two, one wine-glassful wine. Cream the butter 
and sugar, add the wine, oranges, and eggs beaten to a foam, 
the whites separately, the milk and the ci'acker. Bake half an 
hour, in pufl' paste. — Mrs. M. £. H. 

Orange Pie. 

One pint of milk, three oranges, one cupful of sugar, three 
eggs, one and a half tablespoonful of corn-starch. Bake in pulf 
paste.— Jfrs. JI. H. S. 

Peach Meringue Pie. 
Pare and stew ripe peaches. When nearly done, sweeten, 
take from the fire. Stir in a heaping teaspoonful fresh butter 
to each pie. Pour in a deep pie-plate, lined with paste. Bake ; 
when done, remove from the oven and cover with the whites 
of three eggs beaten to a stiff froth, and sweetened with three 
tablespoonf'ils powdered sugar. Set back in the oven to brown 



408 PEACH PIE STRAWBERRY SHORT-CAKE. 

slightly. Apple m6ringue pie may be made in the same way, 
only flavoring the fruit. — Mrs. S. T. 

Peach Pie. 
Pare and stew a quart of peaches with a pint of sugar, Stir- 
ling often ; when boiled to look nearly as thick as marmalade, 
take from the fire and when nearly cool, add one tablespoonful 
fresh butter. Have ready three crusts, baked in shallow tin 
plates. Spread and pile up the fruit on each. — -Mrs. S. T. 

Peach Pie. 
Pare and stew the peaches till nearly done. Sweeten and 
boil a little longer. Set aside and when nearly cool, pour into 
deep pie-plates, lined with paste. Put bits of butter over the 
top, dredge with flour, then cover with a top crust, and bake. — 
Mrs. T. 

Prune Pie. 

Wash the prunes turough several waters. Put in a preserv- 
ing kettle in the proportion of two pounds fruit to one pound 
sugar. Pour a quantity of boiling water over them and let 
them boil at least two hours. When they are thoroughly 
done and the syrup thickens, take from the fiie and pour into 
tin plates, lined with paste. Add one teaspoonful of butter. 
Cover with a rich paste and bake. — Mrs. S. T. 

Damson Pie. 

Scald the damsons slightly, in just enough water to prevent 
I uniing. Set aside till cool enough to handle. Remove the 
stones, sweeten well, and put in a deep pie-plate, lined with 
paste. Dredge with a little flour, cover with a top crust, and 
bake.— JIfrs. T. 

Strawberry Short-cake. 

Bake a rich paste in pie-plates. Have six ready. In these 
spread stewed strawberries well sweetened ; lay one upon another, 
six deep. In winter, use preserved or canned berries. — Mrs. IT. 



cheery pie apple pie. 4c9 

Cherky Pie. 
Seed the cherries first, then scald them in theii' own juice. 
Sweeten liberally and pour into a deep pie plate lined with a 
rich paste. Dredge with flour, cc ver with a top crust and bake. 
Scarlet or short-stem cherries are best. It is necessary to scald 
most fruits, as otherwise the pastry will burn before the fruit is 
thoroughly done. — Mrs. S. T. 

Cranberry Pie. 
Prepare as for sauce, stewing two pounds fruit to one pound 
sugar. Pour into a pie plate lined with paste, cover with a top 
crust and bake. 

OuKUANT Pie. 

Wash and thoroughly pick the fruit. Sweeten liberally and 
put in a yellow baking-dish, adding a little boiling water to 
melt the sugar ; let it simmer a little ; then set it aside to cool. 
Pour into a pie plate, covered with paste. Dredge with flour. 
Cover with paste and bake. 

Apple Pie. 
Put a crust in the bottom of a dish. Put on it a layer ot 
ripe apples, pared, cored, and sliced thin, then a layer of pow- 
dered sugar. Do this alternately, till the dish is fllled. A dd a 
few teaspoonfuls rose water and some cloves. Put on a crust 
and bake it. — Mrs. E. 

Apple Pie. 
Pare and stew the apples till thoroughly done and quite dry. 
Rub through a colander and sweeten with powdered sugar. 
When cool add the whites of eggs — three eggs to a pint of 
apples — and a teacup of cream, whipped. Beat all the ingre- 
dients together with a patent egg-whip — one with a wheel if 
convenient. Spread upon crusts of rich paste, baked in shallow 
tin pie-plates. Grate nutmeg on each one and pile up three or 

four deeo.— ilfrs. S T. 

.8.5 



4:10 APPLE PIE — TOMATO PIE. 

Aj}ple Pie. 
Pave ami slice the apples. Make a little thick syrup of 
white sugar, into which thiow a few cloves, allspice, or mace, as 
you prefer. In this syru}), soalj a few apples at a time, taking 
them out and putting more in till all are slightly cooked. Set 
aside to cool, then pour into deep pie plates lined with paste. 
Dredge with flour. Put bits of butter over all. Dredge again. 
Cover with paste and bake. A glass of brandy or wine will 
improve it. — Mis. S. T. 

Blackberky Pie. 
Pick the berries, but do not wash them. Stew slightly, 
sweeten, pour into a pie plate, lined with paste. Grate in a 
little nutmeg, dredge with flour, put on a top crust and bake. 

Whortleberky Pie. 
Pour just enough boiling water on the fruit to prevent it from 
sticking to the bottom of the preserving kettle. Boil a minute, 
sweeten and pour into a pie-plate lined with paste. Dredge 
with floui-, cover with paste and bake. — Mrs. S. T. 

Gooseberry Pie. 
Put one pound sugar to one of fruit, adding just enough 
water to prevent it from burning. Cook till it begins to jelJv. 
Then spread over shapes of rich pufF paste, already baked. — 
Mrs. M. C. C. 

Tomato Pie. 
Slice green tomatoes and stew in a thick syrup of sugar and 
lemon juice. Grate in the yellow rind of a lemon. When trans- 
parent, spread evenly over the bottom of a pie-plate that has been 
lined with paste. Spread strips of jJastry across or cut into 
ornamental leaves with a cake-cutter, place over the fruit and 
bake.— Jfr-s. S. T. 



sliced potato pie — mincemeat. 411 

Sliced Potato Pie. 
Steam or boil the potatoes. Slice and lay in a syrup of sugar 
seasoned with whole cloves or allspice. Scald and set aside till 
nearly cool. Then place the slices evenly on the bottom of a 
deep pie-plate lined with crust. Put in each pie a tablespoon- 
ful of butter in bits, a wine-glass of brandy or Madeira wine. 
—Mrs. S. T. 

Sweet Potato Pie. 

One pint potatoes, boiled and mashed with a teacup sweet 
milk, and run through a colander. Beat separately four eggs ; 
cream one teacup butter with one of sugar. Beat in the yolks, 
then thfi potatoes, grate in half a nutmeg, pour in a large wine- 
glass of brandy or good whiskey, and last of all, stir in the 
frothed whites. Bake in deej) pie plates, lined with paste, with- 
out a top crust. Sift powdered sugar over the pies. 

Irish potato pie may be made in the same way ; only adding 
the juice and grated rind of a lemon. — Mrs. T. 

Rhubarb Pie. 
Carefully skin the stalks, cut in pieces half an inch long. 
Scald in a little rich syrup, but not long enough to become soft. 
Set aside, and when nearly cool, jjour into a pie plate, lined 
with paste. Put a little grated lemon rind and a piece of but- 
ter the size of a walnut, in each pie. Dredge with flour, put on 
a top crust and bake. — Mrs. T. 

Mincemeat. 
Two quarts boiled beef, two quarts suet, chopped fine (or a 
part butter, for suet). Six quarts apples, one quart molasses 
(best quality). Four pounds sugar, three pounds raisins, one 
pound citron. Nutmeg, cinnamon, cloves, allspice, and wine to 
your taste. Mix well, pack in jars, with melted butter on top, 
if to keep long. Put in a cool place. — Mrs. J. W. 



412 MINOEMISAT — CKI5AM PIE. 

Mincemeat. 
Three pounds meat (after it is boiled). Four pounds Buet, 
three and one-half pounds raisins, one and one-half pounds cur- 
rants, one-lialf pound dried cherries, two nutmegs, and mace to 
your taste. Four pints white wine, one pint brandy, four 
pounds brown sugar. — Mrs. M. E. J". S. 

Mincemeat. 
Six cupfuls beef, twelve cupfuls apples, three cupfuls sugar, 
two cupfuls molasses, two cupfuls butter, two pounds raisins, 
one quart cider, three tablespoonfuls cinnamon, two tablespoon- 
fuls allspice, two nutmegs. 

Minceineat. 
Two pounds lean fresh beef, boiled and chopped. Two 
pounds beef suet chopped fine, four pounds pippin apples, two 
pounds raisins stoned and chopped, two jjounds currants, one- 
half pound citron, two grated nutmegs, one ounce powdered 
cinnamon, one-half ounce each of cloves and mace, two large 
oranges, one teaspoonful salt, one quart brandy, one quart wine, 
one wineglass rose water. 

Cream Pie. 
One quart morning's milk, I cupful sugar, yolks of six eggs, 
three tablespoonfuls sifted flour. Boil twenty minutes, after 
seasoning with nutmeg, wine, and vanilla or lemon. Have rich 
pastry already baked, in deep pie plates. Fill with the above 
mixture and bake. Make a m§ringue of the whites and some 
sugar, pour over the pie, and set it in the stove again to 
brown. — Mrs. T. 

Cream Pie. 

One half pound butter, four eggs, sugar and nutmeg to taste, 
two tablespoonfuls floiir well mixed with milk. Pour over it one 
quart boiling milk, stir all together and bake in deep dishes.— 
Mrs. A. B. 



bod a oeackee pie — molasses pie. 413 

Soda Ckacker Pie. 
Pour water on two large or four round soda crackers and let 
them remain till thoroughly wet. Then press out the water 
and crush them up together. Stir in the juice and grated peel 
of a lemon, with a cupful or more of powdered sugar. Put in 
pastry and bake. — Miss II. L. 

Silver Pie. 

Peel and grate one large white potato. Add the juice and 
grated rind of a lemon, the beaten white of one egg, one cupful 
of white sugar, and one of cold water. 

Bake in a nice paste. After baking, spread on top the whites 
of three eggs, frothed, sweetened and flavored with lemon. Set 
again on the fire and brown. Lay on small pieces of jelly or 
jam, just before taking it to the table. — Mrs. M. H. JB. 

Custard Pie. 
One quart milk, five eggs, five tablespoonfuls sugar ; flavor 
with lemon. 

Bake slowly, half an hour. — Mrs. M. B. B. 

Washington Pie. 

One cupful sugar, one-half cupful butter, one-half cupful 

sweet milk, one-half cupful flour, one egg, one teaspoouful 

cream of tartar, one-half teaspoonful soda ; flavor with lemon. 

Put on dinner plates — spread with apple sauce between each 

layer. — Mrs. Dr. J". 

Sugar Pie. 

Three cupfuls light brown sugar, one-half cupful melted 
butter, one-half cupful cream, three eggs. Season with lemon ; 
beat well together ; bake in pastry, without tops. — Mrs. J". F, 

G. 

Molasses Pie. 

Three eggs, beaten separately, one pint molasses, one table- 
Bpoonful melted butter. Bake on a rich crust. — Mrs. Dr. J. 



414 MOLASSES PIE COEN-STAKGH CHEESE 0AKE8. 

Molasses Pie. 
One teacup molasses, one teacup sugar, four eggs, four table 
spoonfuls butter. Mix sugar and eggs together, pour in butter, 
and add molasses. — Mrs. Dr. S. 

Cheese Cakes. 

Yolks of twelve eggs, one pound sugar, one-half pound but- 
ter, one cupful flour, one pint milk, juice of two lemons. The 
milk, flour, and butter, creamed, and lemons put in together, 
after the eggs are well beaten. Stir all well together till it 
curds. 

Bake in paste. — Mrs. A. G. 

Lemon Cheese Cakes. 

Yolks of sixteen eggs, one pound sugar, three-quarters pound 
butter, four lemons, boiling rinds twice before using, two table- 
spoonfuls powdered cracker. 

Bake in paste. — Mrs. Dr. E. 

Lemon Cheese Cakes. 
Mix and gently melt four ounces of sugar and four ounces of 
butter ; add yolks of two eggs, white of one ; grated rind of 
three lemons, juice of one and a half lemon, one small Savoy 
or sponge biscuit, some almonds blanched and pounded, three 
spoonfuls brandy. Mix well and bake in rich pastry. — Mrs. V. 

JP. M. 

Lemon Cheese Cakes. 

Yolks of eight eggs or yolks of five and whites of three, one- 
half pound sugar, a lump of butter, juice of one lemon and 
graced rind of three. Bake in rich pastry — Miss D. D. 

Corn-starch Cheese Cakes. 
Juice and rind of three lemons, three cupfuls water, three 
cupfuls sugar, three eggs, three tablespoonfuls corn starch, two 
tablespoonfuls butter. Boil the water, n^ix the corn starch with 



ALMOND CHEESE CAKES — PETJNE TAKTS. 415 

a little cold water and pour on the boiling water. Let it boil up 
once and then pour it on the butter and sugar. After it cools 
add the lemons and eggs. — Miss D. D. 

Almond Cheese Cakes. 

Beat up together very light one-half pound powdered sugar, 
and the whites of four eggs. 

Blanch and cut in small pieces four ounces of almonds, which 
must be beaten \ip with the eggs and sugar. Add a little oil of 
almonds or rose water, and bake with pastry, in tins. — Mrs. 
I.H. 

Almond Cheese Cakes. 

Soak one-half pound Jordan almonds in cold water all night. 
Next morning, blanch them in cold water, lay them on a clean 
cloth to dry, and then beat them fine in a marble mortar with a 
little orange-flower or rose water. Then beat and strain six 
yolks and two whites of eggs, add a half-pound white sugar, and 
a little powdered mace. Rub all well together in the mortar. 
Melt ten ounces fresh butter, and add a grated lemon peel. 
Mix all the ingredients and fill the pans, after putting a paste at 
the bottom. Small tin shapes are best for cheese cakes. 

Cream Takts. 
Make them small, of rich paste. Fill them after baking, with 
whipped cream, and droj) a small spot of jelly in each one. The 
prettiest and most delicate of tarts. — Mrs. M. JB. JB. 

Lemon Tarts. 
Chop or grate a lemon ; add a cupful white sugar, a cupful 
water, one egg, one tablespoonful flour. Line small patties with 
paste, put a spoonful in each and bake. — Mrs. M. S. B. 

Prune Tarts. 
Scald the prunes, take out the stones, break them and put tho 
kernels in a little cranberry juice with the prunes, and some 



416 FEENCH FEITTEES BELL FEITPEES 

sugar. Simmer them, and when cold put in tart shapes in pas- 
try anJ hake.— Mrs. V. P. M. 

French Fritters. 

One quart of milk (half to be boiled, and the other hall 
mixed with a quart of flour, and used to thicken the boiling 
milk with). 

Let it get done. While cooking, beat ten eggs very light; 
add a spoonful at a time to the batter, beating all the time, till 
well mixed. Add salt to your taste. Have a small oven full 
of nice lard, boiling hot. Put not quite a spoonful of batter to 
each fritter. Take them out before they turn dark and put 
them in a colander to drain the lard off of them. — Mrs. Dr. E. 

Fritters {made with yeast). 

One quart flour, three tablespoonfuls yeast, five eggs, one pint 
milk. Beat into a tolerably stiflf batter. Stir a cupful of 
boiled rice into the batter, a short time before baking. A good 
deal of lard (boiling hot) is required for frying the fritters. 
Drop the batter in with a spoon, which must be dipped, each 
time, in boiling water. In cool weather, make the fritters 
about nine in the morning, in the summer, about eleven. — 
Mrs. A. a 

Bell Fritters. 

Put a pint of boiling water in a preserving kettle, and as it 
boils, put in a tablespoonful of fresh butter. Have ready a pint 
of the best flour, sifted and wet with cold water, as for starch. 
Dip up some of the boiling water and pour to this, being care- 
ful to have it smooth. Return this to the kettle, stirring 
rapidly to prevent lumps. Turn into a wooden tray, and while 
hot, beat in six well beaten eggs, a spoonful at a time. Beat 
till very light, and beat quickly that the eggs may not cook in 
lumps. Have ready a pint of boiling lard in a pan. Make the 
fritters the shape of an egg, drop in and fry a light brown. 

To be eaten with a pint of molasses, a heaping tablespoonful 



QUIEK OF PAPER PANCAKES — JELLY, BLANC-MANGE. 417 

of butter, a little ginger and cinnamon, boiled to a thick syrup 
and served hot. 

A great deal of lard is required to fry fritters nicely ; yet it is 
not extravagant, as it may be used again. Strain what remains, 
and put it by for iise. — Mrs. S. T. 

Quire of Paper Pancakes. 
Mix with half a pint of rich milk the yolks of four eggs, 
well beaten. Add three tablespoonfuls fine flour, four ounces 
sugar, five ounces fresh butter, melted and cooled, four table- 
spoonfuls Madeira wine, half a nutmeg. Grease the pans once; 
with fresh butter, and this will answer for all. The above quan- 
tity will suffice for five or six persons. — Mrs. R. 

CoMMOK Pancakes. 
Eight eggs, four tablespoonfuls flour, one pint of milk, one 
teaspoonful salt. 



JELLY, BLANC-MANGE, CHARLOTTE RUSSE, 
BAKED CUSTARD, CREAMS, ETC. 

Jelly made of the feet of calves, hogs, etc., is more trouble- 
some, but is also considered more nutritious than jelly made of 
gelatine. It is very desirable, for country housekeepers in par- 
ticular, to make this sort of jelly, as the materials are generally 
in their reach. It is well, however, in all cases, to keep on 
hand Cox's or Nelson's gelatine, on account of the expedition 
with which jelly may be made from these preparations. 

As jelly is considered more wholesome when not colored by 
any foreign substance, no directions will be given in the subse- 
quent pages for coloring it. The palest amber jelly, clear and 
Buarkliil", flavored only by the grated rind and juice of a lemoi, 
18* 



418 

and pale Madeii'a or sherry wine, is not only the most beautiful, 
but the most palatable jelly that can be made. 

Though the recipes accompanying boxes of gelatine do not 
always recommend boiling, it is a great improvement to jelly, 
adding brilliancy, transparency, and a better flavor. Only the 
grated yellow rind and strained juice of the lemon should be 
used, and these, with the requisite quantity of pale Madeira or 
shcri'y, should be added after the other ingredients have been 
well boiled together. The white rind or one single lemon seed 
will render the jelly bitter. A delicious preserve (for which 
a receipt is given under the proper heading), may be made of 
lemons, after the yellow rind has been grated ofl' and the juice 
pressed out for jelly. 

The best and most simple arrangement for straining jelly is to 
invert a small table, fold an old table-cloth four double, tie each 
corner to a leg of the table ; set a bowl under the bag thus 
formed, with another bowl at hand to slip in its place when the 
jelly first run through is returned to the bag, as will be neces- 
sary, the first never being transparently clear. Catch a little in 
a glass. If clear as crystal, it will be unnecessary to return it 
again to the bag. You may then put a thick cloth over the bag 
to keep in the heat, and if in winter, place before a fire. Shut 
up the room, and let it drip. The jelly will run through the 
bag more rapidly if the bag is first scalded. 

Jelly should never be made in hot weather. Ices arc much 
better and more seasonable. 

Always serve jelly with a pitcher of whipped cream, but do 
not mix it beforehand with the cream, as it is best to leave it to 
the taste of each person. 

For blanc-mange and gelatine, it is best to use gelatine and 
as few spices as po.=!sible, as spices turn gelatine dark. As such 
explicit directions are given in the subsequent pages for the 
making of these dishes, it is uimecessary to say anything further 
on the subject at present. 

A nice custard is made in the following manner : Mix the 



STOCK JELLY CALVES' FOOT JELLV. 419 

beaten yolks of six eggs witli a teacup of sugar. Havvj a quart 
of milk boiling in a kettle. Dip up a teacup of milk at a time 
and pour on the eggs, till the kettle is emptied, stirring rapidly- 
all the time. Wash out the kettle, pour the mixture back, and 
stir constantly till it thickens. Then pour it into a bowl and 
stir till cool, to make it smooth and prevent it from curdling. 
Put in the bottom of glass mugs slips of preserved orange, 
lemon, or citron. Fill nearly full with custard ; put whipped 
cream and grated nutmeg on top. 

Or, the yolks may be mixed with boiled milk and sugar in the 
same proportions, but instead of being returned to the kettle, 
may be poured into china or earthenware custard-cujjs, set in a 
pan of boiling water, placed in a stove or range, and baked. 
The boiled milk must be seasoned by boiling a vanilla bean in 
it, or a few peach leaves, or it may be flavored with caromel. 
Serve the custard with whipped cream on top. 

Stock Jelly. 
To one and a half gallons of stock, put the whipped whites of 
eight eggs. Put in six blades of mace and the rind of three 
lemons, 4-^ pounds sugar. Let it boil ten minutes, then add three 
pints of Madeira wine, juice of eight lemons, a little vinegar or 
sharp cider. Let it boil only a few minutes. Strain through a 
dripper. If the stock is not very nice, it may require the 
whites of one dozen eggs to clear it. — 3Irs. 2\ 

Calves' Foot Jelly. 
One quart nice jelly stock, one pint wine, half a pound white 
sugar, whites of fovir eggs beaten up, three spoonfuls lemon 
juice. Boil all well and pass through a jelly -bag, kept hot 
before the fire. Try some at first, till it drips clear, and then 
pour out the whole. Peel the lemons as thin as possible and 
strain the jelly on the peelings. Should you wish to turn on* 
the jelly in moulds, put one ounce isinglass to three pints of 
jelly. — Mrs. I. H. 



420 isinglass jelly — gelatine jelly. 

Isinglass Jelly. 
Dissolve two ounces isinglass in two quarts of boiling water. 
When cold, add juice of three lemons and skin of one, whites 
of three eggs, well beaten, one and a half pounds of sugar, one 
pint cider, four pieces cinnamon (size of the little finger), eight 
blades of mace. Let it boil up well. Be careful not to stir 
after the ingredients are thoroughly mixed. Let it stand ten 
minutes aftei removing from the fire, and just before straining 
pour in a pint of wine. — Mrs. W. H. R. 

Crystal Jelly. 
Pare oflF the rind of one large lemon. Boil in one pint water 
with one ounce isinglass ; add one pound sugar and one cup pale 
wine. As soon as the isinglass is dissolved, strain through a 
muslin and let it stand till cold. Grate the rind of another lemon 
and let it stand in the juice of the two lemons for a short time. 
Strain all in a bowl, and whisk it till it begins to stiffen. Pour 
in moulds.— Jfrs. E. P. G. 

Gelatine Jelly. 

Soak one box of Cox's gelatine, three hours, in a pint of cold 
water. Then add one pint of cooking wine, the rind and juice 
of one lemon, two pounds white sugar, a little mace. Stir these 
ingredients till the sugar dissolves, then add two quarts of boil- 
ing water, gently stirring till mixed. Strain at once, through 
a flannel bag twice. This recipe makes the best jelly I ever 
saw. — Mrs. M. M. D. 

Gelatine Jelly. 

To one package of gelatine add one pint cold water, the rind of 
one lemon and juice of three. Let it stand an hour. Then add 
three pints of boiling water, one pint wine, two and a quarter 
])Ounds loaf sugar, a wineglass of brandy or the best rum. 
Strain through a napkin and let it stand to jelly. — Mrs. Col. S, 

Gelatine Jelly [wiihout straining). 
Add a pint cold water to one box Cox's gelatine. Let i\ 



JELI.Y WITHOUT EGGS OE BOILING BLANC-MANGE. 421 

stand fifteen minutes, then add three pints boiling water, one 
pint wine, the strained juice and peelings (cut thin) of tbree 
lemons, half a teacup of best vinegar, one and a half pounds loaf 
sugar, one wine-glass French brandy, mace or any other spice 
you like, and a little essence of lemon. Let it stand an hour, 
then take out the lemon peel and mace. Let it stand in a cool 
place to o»ngeal. — Mrs. Dr. «/". 

Jelly without Eggs or Boiling. 
Dissolve one package gelatine, an hour, in a pint of cold 
water. Then add three pints of boiling water, the strained 
juice of four lemons and the rind of two, one quart of wine, 
two pounds of sugar. Stir all well together until dissolved. — 
Mrs. E. B. 

Jelly without Soilvng. 

To one of the shilling packages of Cox's gelatine, add one 
pint cold water. After letting it stand an hour, add one and a 
half pounds of loaf sugar, the juice of four lemons, one pint 
light wine, three pints boiling water, and cinnamon to the taste. 
In cold weather this is ready for use in four or five hours. Set 
the vessel with the jelly on ice, in summer. — Miss D. D. 

Cream Jelly. 
Two measures of stock, one of cream ; sweeten and flavor to 
the taste. Pour in moulds to congeal. 

Blanc-mange. 
Dissolve over a fire an ounce of isinglass in a gill of water. 
Pour the melted isinglass in a qiiart of cream (or mixed cream 
and milk), and half a pound of loaf sugar. Put in a porcelain 
kettle, and boil fast for half an hour. Strain it, and add a 
quarter of pound of almonds, blanched, and shaved fine. Sea- 
son to the taste with vanilla and wine, but do not add the wine 
while hot. Pour into moulds. — Mrs. C. C. 



422 BLANC-MANGE ^AKROW-EOOT BLANC-MANGE. 

Blana-Ttiange. 

Po\/r two tablespoonfuls cold water on one ounce gelatine to 
soften it. Boil three pints rich cream. Stir the gelatine intc 
it whilst on the fire, and sweeten to the taste. When it cools, 
season with three tablespoonfuls peach water. Four ounces 
almonds, blanched and pounded very fine and boiled with the 
blanc-mange, are a great improvement. When it begins to 
thicken, pour into moulds. Serve with plain cream. — Mrs. J". 
H. T. 

JBlanc-mange. 

Sweeten a pint of cream and flavor it with lemon juice. 
Then whip it over ice, till a stiff froth. Add one-quarter of an 
ounce gelatine, dissolved in a little boiling water, and whip it 
well again to keep the gelatine from settling at the bottom. 
Pour in a mould, and set on ice till stiff enough to turn out 
Eat with cream, plain or seasoned. A delicious dish. — Mrs. 
G. D. L. 

Jilanc-ma/nge. ( Very fine.) 

Dissolve one box gelatine in two quarts milk, let stand for 
two houi'S. Boil six almonds in the milk. Strain through a 
sifter while this is being boiled. Pound together in a mortar, 
two handfuls blanched almonds and half a cupful granulated 
sugar. Stir into the boiled milk. Add one tablespoonful 
vanilla, and sweeten to your taste. — Mrs. W\ S. 

Custard Blanc-mange. 

Make a custard with one quart milk, four eggs, one teacup 
sugar. Stir into it while boiling, half a box gelatine after it 
has soaked ten minutes. Season with vanilla, and pour in 
moulds. Bat with whipped cream. — JSfrs. ]£. P. G. 

Arkow-root Blanc-mange. 
Boil in a saucepan (tightly covered) one quart milk and a 
piece of vanilla bean. Stir into half a pint cream, a teacup 



CHOCOLATE MANGE — CHARLOrrE KUSSE. 423 

arrow-root, and a little sauce, mixing them smoothly. Pour 
into this the quart boiling milk, stir it well, put it in the sauce- 
pan again and let it simmer ten minutes. Sweeten to your 
taste. Set it in moulds to cool. Eat with cream, flavored to 
your taste. — Mrs. H. 

Chocolate Mange. 

Dissolve one ounce Cox's gelatine in a pint cold water. Let 
it stand an hour. Then boil two quarts of milk, and add to it 
six ounces chocolate with the gelatine. Sweeten to your taste 
and pour into moulds. Eat with sauce made of cream, wine, 
and sugar. — Mrs. W. H. L. 

Coffee Mange. 
One cupful very strong coffee, one cupful sugar, one cupful 
rich cream. Dissolve half a box gelatine in two cupfuls milk, 
over the fire. Add the cream last, after the rest is cool. Pour 
in a mould to congeal. — Mrs. McG. 

Charlotte Russe. 

One pint milk made into a custard with the yolks of six eggs, 
sweetened with half a pound sugar, and flavored with vanilla. 
Strain into the custard, one ounce i.singlass, dissolved in two 
cupfuls milk. When this mixture is cold and begins to stiffen, 
mix with it gradually, one pint rich cream, previously whipped 
to a froth. Then put strips of sponge cake around the mould 
and put the Charlotte Russe in. Turn it out when ready to 
serve. — Mrs. W. C. R. 

Charlotte Husse. 

Soak three-quarters of a package of gelatine in three teacups 

fresh milk. Make a custard of one and a half yint fresh milk, 

three- qiiarters of a pound of sugar, and the yolks of eight eggs. 

When it has boiled, add the gela.ine, and flavor with vanilla 



424 CHAELOTTE EU8SE. 

When it begins to congeal, stir in a quart rich cream, whipped 
to a froth. — Mrs. M. 

Charlotte Russe. 
Have a tin or earthernware mould six inches high, and the 
same in diameter (or oblong, if yon like). Slice sponge cake 
or lady-fingers and line the mould with them. Then beat three 
pints rich cream to a froth, and put the froth on a sieve to 
drain the milk from it. Take one pint calf's-foot jelly (ov one 
and a half ounces gelatine), half a pint rich milk, and the yolks 
of six eggs. Place over a slow fire, and beat till they nearly 
boil. Then take them ofi" the fire and beat till cool. Put 
in tlie frothed cream, sweeten to your taste, flavor with vanilla, 
and stir all well together. Fill the mould and place it on ice 
to cool. — Mrs. W. 11. L. 

Strawberry Gliarlotte Rusae. 
Six eggs, one ounce isinglass, one quart milk. Sweeten to 
the taste and flavor with vanilla. Pour into moulds. Then 
put it on sponge cake, covered with strawberry jam, and pour 
around the dish whipped cream, sweetened and flavored with 
wine. — Mrs. McGr. 

Charlotte Russe. 
Sweeten one quart cream, flavor it with wine and whip it 
lightly. Dissolve half a box gelatine in a tablespoonful cold 
water and the same quantity of boiling water. Set over the 
steam of a kettle to dissolve. Then add half a pint of cream. 
When cold, stir it into the whipped cream. Beat the whites 
of four eggs very light, and stir into the cream. When it 
begins to stiffen, pour into a glass bowl, lined with thin strips 
of sponge cake. Whip, sweeten and flavor another pint of 
cream, and garnish the dish. — Mrs. D. 

Charlotte Russe. 
One ounce gelatine ; one quart rich cream ; eight eggs ; one 



BAKED CUSTAED — SPANISH CBEAM. 425 

quart new milk. Sugar and flavoring to taste. Whip the 
cream to a stiff froth. Make a custard of the milk, gelatine 
and yolks of the eggs. When cool, add the whites of the eggs 
well beaten and the whipped cream. Line the mould with 
sponge cake, and if in summer put it on ice. — Miss M. G. L. 

Baked Custard. 

Boil a quart or three pints of cream, or rich milk, with cinna- 
mon, and three dozen beaten peach kernels, tied in a piece of 
muslin, or you may substitute some other flavoring, if you 
choose. After boiling, let it cool. 

Then beat the yolks of fourteen eggs and whites of four, 
sweeten and strain in a pitcher. After it has settled, pour it in 
cups and set them in the oven, putting around them as much 
boiling water as will reach nearly to the top of the cups. Let 
it boil till you see a scum rising on top the custard. It will 
require at least ten minutes to bake. — Mrs. It. 

Jiaked Gustwrd. 
Seven eggs ; one quart milk ; three tablespoonfuls sugar. 
Flavor to taste. — Mrs. Dr. E. 

Baked Gustwrd. 
Scald eight teacups milk. (Be careful not to boil it.) After 
cooling, stir into it eight eggs and two teacups sugar. Bake in a 
dish or cups. Set in a stove pan and surround with water, but 
not enough to boil into the custard cups. An oven for baking 
puddings is the right temperature. Bake when the custarl ia 
set, which will be in twenty minutes. — Mrs. J". J". A. 

Spanish Cream. 

Boil, till dissolved, one ounce of gelatine in three pints of 

milk. Then add the yolks of six eggs, beaten light, and mixed 

with two teacups sugar. Put again on the fire and stir till it 

thickens. Then set it aside to cool, and meantime beat the 

36 



426 SPANISH CEEAM — BAVARIAN CEEAM. 

six whites very stiff and stir them into the custard when almost 
cold. Pour into moulds. Flavor to your taste, before adding 
the whites. — Mrs. W. 

/Spanish Cream. 

Dissolve half a box gelatine in half a pint milk. Boil one 
quart milk, and while boiling beat six eggs separately and very 
light. Mix the yolks with the boiling milk, and when it 
thickens add the gelatine. Sweeten and season to the taste. 
Pour all while hot on the whites of the eggs. Pour into 
moulds.— ilfrs. J. T. B. 

Italian Cbeam. 

Soak a box of gelatine in one pint cold water. Then add 
one quart nice cream, season with fresh lemons, sweeten to your 
taste, beat well together, and set away in a cool place. When 
hard, eat with cream, flavored with wine. — Mrs. A. JB. 

Russian Cream. 
Boil, till dissolved, one ounce gelatine, in three pints milk. 
Then add the yolks of four eggs, well beaten, and five ounces 
sugar. Mix the whole and let it cook. Then strain and set 
aside to cool. Beat the four whites to a stiff froth, and when 
the cream is nearly congealed, beat them in. Flavor to your 
taste, and mould. — Mrs. A. P. 

Bavarian Cream. 
Sweeten one pint thick cream to yoxir taste and flavor it with 
lemon or vanilla. Churn the cream to a froth, skim off the 
froth as it rises and put it in a glass dish. Dissolve one and a 
half tablespoonfuls gelatine in warm water, and when dissolved 
pour into the froth and stir fifteen minutes. Set in a cold 
place and it will be ready for use in a few hours. — Mrs. D. R. 

Bavarian Grea/m. 
Soak half a box gelatine in cold water till thoroughly dis- 
solved. Then add three pints niilk or cream, and put on the 



TAPIOOA CKEAM — SYLLABUB. 427 

fire till sealding hot, stirring all the while. Then take it off 
and add three teacups sugar and the yolks of eight eggs (by 
spoonfuls) stirring all the time. Set on the fire again and lei 
it remain till quite hot. Then take it off and add the eight 
beaten whites and eight teaspoonfuls vanilla. Fut into moulds 
to cool. — Mrs. J^. A. Ij. 

Tapioca Cream. 

Three tablespoon fuls tapioca, one quart milk, three eggs, one 
cupful sugar, flavor with lemon or vanilla. 

Soak the tapioca, in a little water, overnight. After rinsing, 
put it in milk and let it cook soft. Add sugar and yolks of 
eggs. Whip the whites stiff and pour on the tapioca, as you re- 
move it from the fire. It should be cooked in a tin pail, set in 
a kettle of boiling water, to prevent the milk from scorching. 
Eat cold.— Jlfrs. &. W. P. 

Tapioca. 
Boil the pearl tapioca (not the lump kind) as you do rice. 
When cool, sweeten to the taste and season with nutmeg. Pour 
rich cream over it and stir it to malce it smooth. J.^ut one pint 
cream to two tablespoonfuls before boiling. — Mrs. J. It. T. 

Lemon Fkoth. 

Dissolve a box of gelatine in a pint of warm water, then add 
a pint of cold water. In winter three pints may be used in- 
stead of two. 

Add the juice of six lemons and the rind; cut them as for 
je'ly. Let it stand till it begins to harden. Then take out the 
rind and add the whites of twelve eggs beaten to a stiff froth, 
Beat them into the jelly, put in a glass bowl, and serve in 
saucers. — Mrs. A. 0. 

Syllabub. 

Half a pound sugar, three pints lukewarm cream, one cupful 
wine. Dissolve the sugar in the wine, then pour it on the milk 



428 SLIP — ^APPLE SNOW. 

from a height and slowly, so as to cause the milk to froth.— 
Mrs. JE. 

Slip. 
One quart milk (warm as when milked), one tablespoonful 
wine of the rennet. After the milk is turned, eat it with a 
dressing of cream, sugar and wine. — ilfrs. Dr. E. 

Bonny-clabber. 
Set away the milk in the bowl in which it is brought to the 
table. If the weather is warm, set it in the refrigerator after 
it has become clabber. 

Help each person to a large ladleful, being careful not to 
break it. Eat with powdered sugar, nutmeg and cream. — Mrs. 
S. T. 

Float. 

To a common-sized glass bowl of cream, sweetened with loaf 
sugar and flavored with wine, take the whites of six eggs, three 
large tablespoonfuls sugar, and three of fruit jelly. Do not beat 
the eggs to a froth, but put in the jelly and sugar and beat all 
together.— J/rs. T. 

Apple Float. 
Mash a quart cooked or coddled apples smooth through a 
sieve ; sweeten vsdth six tablespoonfuls sugar, and flavor with 
nutmeg. Then add the apples, a spoonful at a time, to the 
whites of four eggs, well beaten. Put a pint of cream, seasoned 
with sugar and nutmeg, at the bottom of your dish, and put the 
apples on top. — Mrs. I. H. 

Apple Snow. 
Pare and slice one dozen large apples ; stew them perfectly 
done, and run through a colander. Then add whites of twelve 
eggs, beaten to a stiff frotli, and one pound white sugar. Eat 
with sweet cream. 



A NICE DESSEKT OF APPLES BAKED APPLES. 429 

A Nice Dessert of Apples. 

Pare and weigh two pounds green apples. Cut them in sma.ll 
pieces, and drop them in a rich syrup, made of a pound and a 
quarter of " A " sugar and a little water. As soon as the syrup 
begins to boil, add the juice and grated rind of one large lemon 
or two small ones. 

Boil till the apples become a solid mass. Turn out in a wet 
mould to stand till cold. Serve on a dish surrounded with 
boiled custard, or eat with seasoned cream. — Mrs. A. F. 

A Nice, Plain Dessert. 
Peel and slice the apples, stew till done, then run through a 
colander and sweeten, season. Beat the whites of three eggs to 
a stiff froth, and just before serving whip them into a quart 
of the stewed apples. Eat with cream. — Mrs. T. 

Apple Compote. 
Pare, core, and quarter the apples, wash them, and put them 
in a pan with sugar and water enough to cover them. Add cin- 
namon, and lemon peel which has been previously soaked, scraped 
and cut in strings. Boil gently till done ; lay in a deep dish. 
Boil the syrup to the proper consistency, and pour over the 
apples. — Mrs. Ji]. 

Nice Preparation of Apples. 
Quarter and core some well-flavored apples, place in a shallow 
tin pan or plate, sprinkle thickly with white sugar and a few 
small pieces of cinnamon. Pour on enough cold water to half 
cover the apples, and scatter a few small pieces of butter over 
them. Cook slowly tUl thoroughly done, then set away to cool. 
—3Irs. MqG. 

Baked Apples. 
Pare and core the apples, keeping them whole. Put in a bak- 
ingdish, and fill the holes with brown sugar. Pour into each 



430 ICED APPLES — ^lOE CREAM AND FEOZEN CCSTAED. 

ajjple a little lemon juice, and stick into each a piece of lenioi] 
peel. Put enough water to prevent their biirning. Bake till 
tender, but not broken. Set away to cool. Eat with cream oi 
custard. They will keep two days. — Mrs. Dr. J". 

loED Apples. 
Pare and core one dozen fine, firm apples, leaving them whole. 
Place in a stewpan, with enough water to cover them, and stew 
till you can pierce them with a straw. Then remove from the 
fire, and set in a dish to cool. Then fill the centre with currant 
or some other jelly, and ice over as you would cake. Serve in a 
glass dish, and eat with rich cream or custard. — Mrs. A. D. 



ICE CEEAM AND FROZEN CUSTARD. 

After having tried many new and patent freezers, some of the 
best housekeepers have come to the conclusion that the old- 
fashioned freezer is the best. It is well, however, to keep a 
patent freezer on hand, in case of your wanting ice cream on 
short notice ; but for common use an old-fashioned one is the 
best, especially as servants are so apt to get a patent freezer out 
of order. 

The great secret of freezing cream quickly in a common 
freezer is to have the cream and salt in readiness before break- 
ing the ice into small pieces the sizp of a walnut. There must 
be a space of two inches between the freezer and the tub in 
which it is set. Put a little ice and salt under the bottom of 
the freezer, then pack alternate layers of ice and salt several 
inches higher than the cream is in the freezer. If there is no 
top to the tub, with an aperture to admit the freezer, pin a 
woollen cloth over it and turn the freezer rapidly. When the 
cream begins to harden on the sides of the freezer, cut it down 



ICE CEEAM AND FKOZEN CUSTARD. 431 

with a knife, scrape from the sides, and beat with a large iron 
spoon. Then cover again, and turn rapidly till it is as hard 
as mush. When the ice begins to melt, drain off the salt and 
water, adding more salt and ice, which must be kept above the 
level of the cream in the freezer. When done, tie large news- 
papers over the tub and freezer. Put a woollen cloth or blanket 
over these, and set the cream in a dark, cool closet till wanted. 
In this way it may be kept for hours in summer, and for days 
in winter, and will grow harder instead of melting. As creara 
can be kept thus, it is well to make it early in the day and set 
it aside, leaving more leisure for other preparations that are 
better made immediately before dinner. 

Ice cream making, like other branches of housekeeping, is 
much facilitated by having all the ingredients at hand before 
beginning on it. As such explicit directions for the process 
are given in the subsequent pages, it is unnecessary for me to 
add anything further on the subject. Unless you have pure 
cream to freeze, it is better to make plain boiled custard rather 
than to attempt an imitation of ice cream. 

It is a good plan to make jelly and custard at the same time, 
so that the yolks of eggs not used in the jelly may be utilized in 
custard either boiled or baked. The same proportions are gen- 
erally used for boiled and baked custard. Instead of flavoring 
with extract of vanilla, it is much better to boil a vanilla bean 
in the milk, or to boil some peach leaves tied up in a piece of 
muslin (six or eight leaves to a quart of milk), or to flavor it 
with burnt sugar. Never flavor custard with extract of lemon, 
when you can obtain fresh lemons for the purpose. 

When you have no yolks left from making jelly, boil a quart 
of milk (flavored by the above directions). Have ready three 
eggs, whites and yolks beaten together to a stiff froth, and into 
these stir a teacup of powdered white sugar. Dip up the boil- 
ing milk, pour slowly on the eggs, stirring rapidly. When all 
the milk has been stirred in the eggs, wash out the kettle, put 
the milk ^nd eggs back into it, and let the mixture boil till it 



4:32 ICE CEEAM — ^LEMON ICE CEEAM. 

begins to thicken, when it must be taken immediately from the 
fire, poured into a bowl, and stirred till cold and smooth. 

Many persons, before freezing, stir in the frothed whites of 
three eggs. The same directions given for freezing cream apply 
to the freezing of custard. 

Boiled custard should never be used as a substitute for cream 
in making fruit ice creams, nor should it ever be eaten with 
jelly. 

Ice Cream. 

Dissolve five teaspoonfuls Oswego starch or arrow-root ia a 
teacup milk. Add to it the whites of three eggs well frothed, 
and the yolk of one, well beaten. 

Sweeten with loaf sugar and boil half a gallon new mUk. As 
soon as it begins to boil, pour it in small quantities over the 
mixture of eggs and starch, till about half the milk is taken out 
of the kettle. Then pour all back in the kettle and stir a few 
moments. After it cools, add one quart rich cream ; season to 
the taste and freeze. — Mrs. Dr. E. 

Ice Cream. 
One qiiart milk, two eggs, one teaspoonful corn starch, one 
teaspoonful arrow-root. A small lump of butter. — Mn. E. Ji, 

Ice Cream. 

Cream one tablespoonful butter from which the salt has been 
-washed. Add three tablespoonfuls corn starch. Dissolve this 
in half a gallon new milk, heated, sweetened and seasoned. 
Beat the whites of four eggs, and stir in just before freezing. — 
Mrs. McC 

Lemon Ice Cream. 

One gallon rich cream, six lemons, first rubbed till soft, and 
then grated. Tie the yellow peel, which has been grated ofi", in 
a piece of coarse muslin. Out each lemon in half and squeeze 
the juice from it. Strain the juice, and soak the muslin bag of 



OEANGE lOE CREAM PEACH CEEAM. 433 

lemon peel in it, squeezing it frequently till it becomes highly 
flavored and colored by it. Then add two teacups of sugar. 

In sweetening the cream, allow a teacup of sugar to each 
quart. Pour the juice into it slowly, carefully stirring. Froth 
and freeze, reserving a portion of cream to pour in as it sinks 
in freezing. — Mrs. S. T. 

Okange Ice Cream. 
Four oranges, one gallon cream. Rub four or five lumps of 
sugar on the orange peel, squeeze the juice out, put the lumps 
of sugar in it and pour into the cream. Sweeten heavily with 
pulverized sugar before freezing. — Mrs. M. 

StUAWBEUUY CllEAM. 

Four quarts thick sweet cream, four quarts strawberries. 
The berries must be mashed or bruised, caps and all, with a 
teacup of granulated sugar to each quart. After standing 
several hours, strain through a thin coarse cloth. 

Put four teacups of white sugar to the cream, and then add 
the juice of the berries. Whip or froth the cream with 
a patent egg-whip or common egg-beater. Pour two-thirds of 
the cream into the freezer, reserving the rest to pour in after it 
begins to freeze. Raspberry cream may be made by the same 
recipe. — Mrs. 8. T. 

Peach Ceeam. 

Take nice, soft peaches, perfectly ripe. Pare and chop fine, 
make them very sweet, and mash to a fine jam. To each quart 
of peaches, add one pint of cream and one pint of rich milk. 
Mix well and freeze. If you cannot get cream, melt an ounce 
of Cox's gelatine in a cup of water. Boil the milk, pour it on 
the gelatine, and when cold, mix with the peaches. — L. D. L. 

Peach Cream,. 
To two quarts of rich, sweet cream, add two teacups of sugar. 

Wliip to a stiff froth with a patent egg-whip, one with a wheel, 

37 



434 PINEAPPLE ICE CKEAM VANILLA ICE CKEAM. 

if conveuient ; if not, use tlie common egg- whip. Then peel 
soft, ripe peaches till you have about two quarts. As you peel, 
sprinkle over them two teacups powderetl white sugar. Mash 
quickly with a silver tablespoon, or run through a colander, if 
the fiuit is not soft and jipe. Then stir into the whipped 
cream, and pour into the freezer, reserving about one-fourth to 
add wlieu the cream begins to sink in freezing. When you add 
the remainder, first cut down the frozen cream from the sides 
of the freezer. Beat hard with a strong iron spoon, whenever 
the freezer is opened to cut down the cream, till it becomes too 
hard. This beating and cutting down is required only for the 
common freezer, the patent freezer needing nothing of the kind. 

Tie over tiie freezer large newspapers, to exclude tlie air, and 
set aside till wanted. 

Apricot cream may be made exactly by this receipt. — Mrs. 
S. T. 

Pineapple Ice Ckeam. 

Whiji two quarts rich, sweet cream to a froth, with two tea- 
cups powdered white sugar. Use a patent egg-whip with a 
wheel, if convenient ; if not, use the common egg-whip. 

Grate two ripe pineupples, and add to them two teacups 
white sugar. When well mixed, stir into the cream. 

Pour into the freezer, reserving one-fourth. When it begins 
to freeze, it will sink ; then beat in the remainder with a .strong 
iron spoon. Beat every time the freezer is opened to cut. down 
the cream fi-oni the sides. Never cook fruit of any sort to make 
cream. — Mrs. iS. T. 

V.\NILLA ItE CllEAM. 

Boil half a vanilla beau, cut in small pieces, in half a pint of 
rich new milk. When cocjI, strain and add to two quarts thick 
sweet cream. Sweeten with two heaping teacups powdered 
STigur, and whip to a stiff froth. Pour into a freezf;i', reserving 
(lue-fourth of the cream. As soon as it begins to freeze, stir 
fiviu the sides with a large iron spoon, and beat hard. Add 



NOnVELL HOUSE CAKAMEL lOB CEEAM. 435 

the remaining cream wlien it begins to sink. Beat every time 
the freezer is opened. When frozen, tie newspapers over the 
freezer and bucket, throw a blanket over them, and set in a 
close, dark place till the ice cream is wanted. — Mrs. S. T'. 

!NoRVELL House Caramel Ice Cream. 
One gallon rich, sweet cream, four teacups powdered sugar, 
five tablespoonfuls caramel. Mix well and freeze hard. 

Caramel. 
Put in a stewpan one teacup nice brown sugar and half a 
teacup water. Stew over a hot fire till it burns a little. If 
too thick, make it of the consistency of thin molasses, by adding 
a little boiling water. Bottle and cork, ready for use. — Mrs. 
J. W. JI. 

Caramel Ice Cream. 

Three quarts cream, two pints brown sugar, put in a skillet 
and stir constantly over a brisk fire until it is dissolved. 
Be careful not to let it burn, howevei'. "While it is melting, 
heat one pint milk, and stir a little at a time with the dissolved 
sugar. Then strain it, and when cool, pour it into the cream, 
well beaten. Then freeze. — Mrs. W. C. Ji. 

Chocolate Ice Cream. 
Half a pound sweet cliocolate, twelve eggs, one gallon milk, 
two tablespoonfuls arrow-root, sugar and vanilla to the taste. 
Dissolve the chocolate in one pint and a half boiled milk. 
Whip the eggs. Mix the arrow-root in a little cold milk, and 
add to the eggs Then pour on one gallon boiled milk, and put 
on the fire to thicken. When cool, season and freeze. — Mrs. 
D. R. 

Cliocolate Ice Cream. 

Three quarts milk, eight eggs, six ounces chocolate disboived 
in a pint of boiling water, three heaping tablespoonfuls arrow- 
root well mixed in cold milk, one pound and a half of brown 



4:36 CHOCOLATE ICE CBEAM — WHITE ICE CEEAM. 

sugar, vanilla to the taste. Made like custard, and boiled very 
thick —Miss B. B. 

Gliocolate Ice Cream. 
One qtiart morning's milk, one-quarter of a pound chocolate, 
ouo teaspoonfiil vanilla, sugar to the taste. Boil as for table 
use. When ready to freeze, whip in one quart rich cream. 

CocoANUT Ice Cream. 
One pound grated cocoaniit, one pound sugar, one pint cream. 
Stir the grated nut gradually into the cream. Boil gently, or 
merely heat it, so as to thoroughly get the flavor of the nut. 
Then pour the cream into a bowl and stir in the sugar. When 
cold, stir in three pints fresh cream, then freeze. 

Gocoanut Ice Cream. 
One cocoanut, pared and grated. Mix with a quart of cream, 
sweeten, and freeze. — Mrs. JE. I. 

Cocoanut Ice Crea/m. 
One grated nut, three and a half quarts of milk, one pint of 
cream, two tablespoonfuls arrow-root mixed in a little cold milk. 
Sweeten to the taste, and freeze. — Mrs. I). H. 

Gelatine Ice Ckeam. 
Soak one-half package of Cox's gelatine in a pint of moi-n- 
ing's milk. Boil three pints of milk, and while hot, pour on the 
gelatine, stirring till dissolved. When cold, add two quarts of 
cream, and sweeten and season to your taste. Then freeze. It 
is improved by whipping the cream before freezing. — Miss 

E. T. 

White Ice Cream. 

Three quarts milk, whites of four eggs beaten light, three 
tablespoonfuls arrow-root mixed in a little cold water and 
added to the eggs. Boil the milk and pour over the eggs, etc. 



ICE OEEAM WITHOUT CREAM FBOZEN CUSTAED. 437 

Thon put on the fire and thicken a little. When nearly cold, 
add a quart of cream. Sweeten and sea.son to the taste and 
freeze. — Mrs. D. JR. 

Ice Grewm without Cream. 
One gallon milk, yolks of two eggs well beaten, whites of 
twelve eggs well beaten. Sweeten and scald the milk, and 
pour it on the eggs, stirring all the time. Put it in the kettle 
again and let it come to a boil. Season to the taste and freeze at 
once.— Jfrs. E. W. 

Bisque Ice Cream. 
One half-gallon of freshly turned clabber, one-half gallon rich 
sweet cream, one good vanilla bean boiled in one-half pint sweet 
milk, sugar to the taste. Churn this five minutes before freez- 
ing. One can of condensed milk may be used with less clabber. 
Mrs. H L. S. 

BCTTEKMILK OrEAM. 

One gallon buttermilk, yolks of eight eggs, and whites of four, 
well beaten ; three pints sweet milk. Boil the sweet milk and 
pour on the eggs ; then thicken, stirring all the time. When 
cool stir in the buttermilk slowly, season and sweeten to the 
taste, then freeze. — Mrs. D. R. 

Caramel Custard (Frozm). 
Make a rich custard, allowing a cup of nice brown sugar to 
every quart. Stew the sugar till it burns a little. Then mix 
it with the custard while both are hot. Boil two sticks cinna- 
mon in the custard. — Mrs. tT. J". JB. 

Frozen Custard. 

One quart fresh milk, eight eggs, yolks and whites beaten 

separately. Put the milk on the fire, sweetened to the taste, 

and let it come to boiling heat ; then take it off and add the 

yolks. Then wash the kettle and put the custard on the fire 



438 FROZEN C0STABD — PLUM PUDDING GLAoil. 

again, and let it boil till quite thick. Take it off, and when 
cool enough, add the whites. Flavor with lemon or vanilla, 
and freeze. —Mi s. C. N". 

JProzen Custard. 
Twelve eggs, one gallon milk, four lemons, sugar to taste, 
freeze. — ]/rs. Dr. S. 

Bisque. 

Make one-half gallon rich boiled custard, allowing six eggs to 
each quart. Add, before taking it from the fire, two pounds 
of macaroon almonds. When cold, freeze. — Mrs. A. P. 

PlumbiJjre. 
Make a rich custard, and flavor it when cool with wine and 
extract of lemon. Whea half frozen, add blanched almonds, 
chopped citron, brandy peaches cut up, and any other brandied 
or crystallized fruit. Make the freezer half full of custard and 
fill with fruit. 

Frozen Pudding. 
Forty blanched almonds pounded rather fine, one ounce 
citron cut in small squares, two ounces currants, two ounces 
raisins stoned and divided. Soak all in two wine-glasses wine, 
all night. Make custard of a pint of cream or milk. If cream, 
use yolks of four eggs ; if milk, yolks of eight eggs. Make a 
syrup of one pound white sugar and a pint of water. When 
nearly boiling, put in the fruit and wine and boil one minute. 
When cool, mix with the custard. Whip whites of the eggs to 
a stiff froth, and add to the custard and syrup after they are 
mixed. Add last a wine-glass of brandy. — Miss E. W. 

Plum Pudding Glac^. 
To one pint cream or new milk, stir in thoroughly two table- 
spoonfuls arrow-root. Boil three pints milk, and while boiling 
add the cold cream and arrow-root, also three eggs well beaten, 
and sugar to the taste. When cold season with vanilla liean, 



CEEAM SHERBBU' A NEW RECIPE FOB LEMON SHERBET. 439 

and stir iii half a jjound cut citron, half a pound currants, 
lialf a pound raisins cut and seeded. Freeze hard and serve in 
moulds.— iffrs. T. 

Cream Sheebet. 
Tliree quarts water, four lemons, whites of six eggs, one 
pound and two ounces sugar, one pint sweet cream. Mix one- 
half the sugar with the cream and eggs, which must be beaten to 
a stiff froth ; mix the rest of the sugar with the water and 
lemons. Mix all together just before freezing. — Mrs. A. P. 

Lemon Sherbet. 
Take one dozen lemons, squeeze out the juice, then slice the 
rind and pour over it six quarts boiling water. Mix three 
pounds sugar with the lemon juice, and one quart milk, brought 
to a boil and thickened with three tablespoonfuls arrow-root or 
corn-starch. Be careful to remove all the seed and most of the 
rind, leaving only a few slices to make the dish pretty. After 
the lemonade begins to freeze, stir in the thickened milk, and 
the whites of six eggs beaten very light. 

Lemon Sherbet. 
One dozen good lemons, whites of twelve eggs beaten stiff, 
three pounds white sugar, one gallon water. Stir all well 
together and add one quart nice fresh cream. Stir often while 
freezing. — Miss E. T. 

Xiemon, Slierhet. 
Two quarts water, four large lemons, one pound and a half 
sugar, whites of six eggs. Rub some lumps if sugar on the 
rind of the lemons. Powder some of the su'j^ar, beat it with 
the whites of the eggs, and mix with the lemonade when it 
begins to freeze. — ]\Irs. M. 

A new Medpe for Lemon Sherbet. 
Make one and a half gallon rather acid lemonade, grating 



440 OEAJSTGE SlIEKBET — PINEAPPLE JOE. 

the peel of three or four of the lemons before straining the 
juice into tl.e water. Let it stand fifteen minutes. Then make 
dnd add to it the following mixture : pour a pint cold watur 
over one box gelatine and let it stand half an hour; then pour 
ov(}r it one pint boiling water, and let it stand till thoroughly 
dissolved. Beat the whites of eiglit eggs with two pounds pul- 
verized sugar till as thick as icing; then churn a quart rich 
cream till it is reduced to a pint; then beat the fioth of tho 
cream into the egg and sugar. Pour in gradually the lemonade, 
beating all the time so as to mix thoroughly, and then freeze. 
Delicious. — Mrs. F. C. W. 

Orange Sherbet. 
One gallon water, twelve oranges, juice of three lemons, 
whites of six eggs. Rub some lumps of sugar on the orange 
peel. Mix as lemon sherbet, and freeze. — Mrs. M. 

Orange Ice. 
One dozen oranges, juice of two lemons, two quarts water; 
sugar to the taste. Rind of four oranges grated on sugar. 
Freeze as ii-sual. — Mrs. Gr. D. L. 

Orange Ice. 

Juice of nine oranges, juice of one lemon, one and one-quar- 
ter pounds powdered sugar, two quarts water. To be frozen. — 
Mrs. I. H. 

Pineapple Ice. 

To a two-pound can of pineapples add three quarts water, 
half a box gelatine (prepared as for jelly), jiaice of two oranges, 
whites of four eggs. Remove the black and hard pieces of pine- 
apple, then pass it through the colander by beating with a po- 
tato-masher. Sweeten to your taste and freeze. — -Mrs. I. H. 

Pineapple Ice. 
One large pinea} pie peeled and finely grated, juice of onf 



PINEAPPLE ICE — GELiTIHE ICE. 441 

lemon, two quarts water. Sweeten to the taste, and freezn 
ha.r6l.—Mrs. G. D. L. 

Pineapple Ice. 

Dissolve one box gelatine in one gallon water. Beat two 
pounds pineapple through a colander with a wooden pestle. 
Add the juice of two lemons and the juice of two oranges ; 
sweeten to your taste, but add more sugar than is required for 
ice cream. 

Beat six eggs separately and stir in the mixture. When haH 
frozen, beat rapidly half a dozen times, at intervals. 

This makes two gallons when frozen. — Mrs. E. T. 

Citron Ice. 
Slice citron, pour on it a rich, hot lemonade, and freeze. — 
Mrs. E.I. 

Raspberry Ice. 
Three quarts juice, one quart water. Sweeten heavily, and 
after putting in the freezer add the whites of six eggs beaten 
very light. The same recipe will answer for currant or cherry 
ice. — Mrs. M. C. C. 

Watermelon Ice {beautiful and delicious). 
Select a ripe and very red melon. Scrape some of the pulp 
and use all the water. A few of the seeds interspersed will add 
greatly to the appearance. Sweeten to tlie taste and freeze as 
you would any other ice. If you wish it very light, add the 
whites of three eggs, thoroughly whipped, to one gallon of the 
icing just as it begins to congeal. Beat frequently and very 
hard with a large iron spoon. — Mrs. J. J". 

Gelatine Ice. 
Let one ounce sparkling gelatine stand an hour in a pint of 
cold water. Then add three pints boiling water, one and one- 
half pounds loaf sugar, one and one-half pint wine, juice of 
19* 



442 MIBEOSIA — PEACHES AND CEEAM. 

three lemons, rind of two lemons. Stir all these iugrcdienta 
and freeze before allowing it to congeal. Delicious. 

Ambrosia. 
Pare and slice as many oranges as you choose, in a glass bowl 
Sprinkle sugar and grated cocoanut over each layer. — Mrs. W. 

G.B. 

A-mbrosia. 

Cut pineapple and orange in slices, sprinkle with sugar, anil 
put in a deep dish alternately to form a pyramid. Put grated 
cojoanut between each layer. If you like, pour good Madeira 
or sherry wine over the disli. — Mrs. T. 

Pineapple. 
Peel and slice thin, just before eating. Sprinkle pulverized 
sugar over it, but nothing else, as the flavor of this delicious 
fruit is impaired by adding other ingredients. Keep on ice till 
wanted.— Jfrs. S. T. 

Watekmelons. 
Keep on ice till wanted. If lacking in sweetness, sprinkle 
powdered sugar over them. — Mrs. S. T. 

Cantaleupes. 

Cut out carefully the end with the stem, making a hole large 

enough to admit an apple. With a spoon, remove the seed. 

Fill with ice, replace the round piece taken out, and place on 

end. Eat with powdered sugar, salt, and pepper. — Mrs. S. T. 

Peaches and Ckeam. 
While the first course is being served, peaches should be 
pared and split, and the stones removed. Lay in a glass bowl 
and sprinkle liberally with powdered sugar. No fruit should 
be sweetened till just before eating. Ornament the edges ol 
the bowl with any handsome, glossy leaves convenient, and 
serve «ith cream. — Mrs. S. T. 



stuawbeeeies peeserves and feuit jellies. 443 

Strawberries 
Should never be washed unless sand or earth adheres to 
them. Cap carefully while the first course is being served, or, 
if more convenient, you may cap in the morning, but never 
sweeten till just before eating, as sweetening long beforehand 
extracts the juice and makes the fruit tough. Set it on ice, or 
in a refrigerator. No ice must be put on fruit. Serve with 
cream that has been set on ice. Decorate the edges of the bowl 
with strawberry leaves. 

The same directions will apply to raspberries, blackberries, 
and dewberries. Whortleberries may be washed, picked, and 
drained, tlioua;h not sweetened till dinner. — Mrs. S. T. 



PRESERVES AND FRUIT JELLIES. 

Always make preserves in a porcelain or brass kettle. If the 
latter, have it scoured first with sand, then with salt and vine- 
gar. Then scald it and put in the sugar and water for the 
syrup. 

In peeling fruit, throw it into cold water to keep it from 
turning dark, and let it remain there till yoxi are ready ti^ 
throw it in the boiling syrup. Bear in mind that exposure to 
the air turns peeled fruit dark. 

Boil rather quickly. In preserving fruit whole, boil it a 
short time in the syrup, take it out, let it get cold, and theu 
put it again in the kettle. 

Cut sugar is best for preserves which you wish to be clear 
and light-colored, bxit nice brown sugar is best for dark-colored 
jams and marmalades, such as those made of blackberries, rasp- 
berries, whortleberries, etc. 

The best peaches for preserving, brandying, or pickling, aie 
white freestone peaches, not quite ripe enough to eat with 



444 SWEETMEAT PEESEEVE6. 

cream. Pears and quinces also should be preserved before tliej 
are quite ripe enough for eating. They should be parboiled 
before eating. No fruit should be over-ripe when preserved. 
Damsons and blue plums should be slit lengthwise with a pen 
knife, and set in the sun before preserving, which will render 
it easy to extract the stones. Cherries also should be stoned 
before preserving. A piece of paper dipped in brandy and laid 
iji top the preserves will help to keep them. I would suggest 
to housekeepers that they always put their preserves in glass 
jars with screw tops. By this means they can readily inspect 
it and see if it is keeping well, without the trouble of untying 
the jar and looking inside, as would be necessary in the case of 
stone jars. 

Set the jar of preserves, if they become dry or candied, in a 
pot of cold water, which allow to come gradually to a boil. If 
the preserves ferment, boil them over with more sugar. 

The great secret of making nice fruit jelly is to boil the syrup 
well before adding the sugar (which should always be loaf or 
cut), and you should allow a pound of sugar to a pint of the 
juice in acid fruit jellies, though less will answer for sweet 
fruit. By boiling the syrup well before adding the sugar, the 
flavor and color of the fruit are retained. Keep the jelly in 
small, common glasses. 

Sweetmeat Preserves. 

Cut the rind in any shapes fancied (such as flowers, fruits, 
leaves, grapes, fish, etc.), put it in brine strong enough to float 
an egg, cover closely with grape leaves, and set away the jar. 
When ready to make the preserves, soak the rind in fresh 
water, changing it till all taste of salt is removed from the rind. 
Dissolve four tablespoonfuls pulverized alum in one gallon 
water. Lay the rind in this, covered closely with grape or 
cabbage leaves. Simmei till it becomes a pretty green, theu 
soak out the alum by throwing the rind in soft water. 

Pour boiling water on half a pound white ginger, and let it 



WATERMELON OE MUSKMELON MARMALADE. 445 

stand long enough to soften sufficiently to slice easily in thin 
pieces (retaining the shapes of the rases as much as possible). 
Then boil it an hour in half a gallon water, and add one ounce 
mace and two pounds best cut sugar. This makes a thin syrup, 
in whicli boil the rind gently for half an hour, adding water to 
keep the riud covered with syrup. 

Set the kettle away for four days and then boil again as be- 
fore, adding two pounds siigar and more water, if necessary. 
Repeat the boiling six or seven times, till the syrup is rich and 
thick and sufficient to cover the rind. 

The quantity of seasoning given above is for three gallons 
rind. Allow two pounds sugar to each pound fruit. This 
sweetmeat keeps indefinitely and never ferments. — Mrs. F. M. C. 

Watermelon or Mdskmelon Marmalade. 
"Weigh twelve pounds rind, previously soaked in brine, and 
the salt extracted by fresh water, parboil, put on with twelve 
pounds sugar made into a thin syrup, and boil to pieces. Add 
the peelings of twelve oranges and twelve lemons, previously 
soaked in water, cut in strips and boiled extrmeley soft, the 
water being changed three times while boiling. Stir con 
stantly fromthe bottom with a batter-cake turner. Cook very 
thick. Put in wide-mouthed glass jars — Mrs. S. T. 

BlFE MUSKMELON OR WATERMELON PRESERVES. 

During the summer, peel and slice indifferent cantaleupes 
(such as you do not care to eat), especially such as are not quite 
ripe. Throw them into brine, together with your thickest wa- 
termelon rinds, peeling off the outside skin. When you have 
enough, weigh them, throw them in fresh water, which change 
daily tilj tho, salt is extracted. Boil in a preserving kettle till 
soft enough to pierce with a straw. Make a syrup, allowing 
one pound sugar for each pound fruit. When it boils, put the 
rind in it and simmer steadily till the rind is transparent and 
the syrup thick. When cool, add the juice and grated rind of 



446 RIPE MUSKMELON PKE8ERVES — OEANGE PEESEKVE8. 

twelve lemons. Let it stand in a bowl several days. Then 
strain the syrup (which will have become thin), boil it again, 
pour over the rind, and put the preserves in glass jars with 
screw tops. — Mrs. S. T. 

Ripe Muskmelon Preserves. 

Peel and slice the melons, soak them twenty-four hours in 
salt water, twenty-four hours in alum water, and twenty-four 
Lours in fresh water, changing the latter several times. Then 
make a strong ginger tea, in which boil them slowly till they 
taste of ginger. 

Make a syrup, allowing a pound and a half sugar to each 
pound fruit, and addiug mace and sliced ginger (the latter 
must be soaked in boiling water twelve hours before it is wanted). 
Cook the melon in the syrujj till clear and tender. You may 
use sliced lemons as a seasoning instead of ginger. — Mrs. It. L. 

Pineapple Preserves. 
Parboil the pineapples, then peel and cut in thick slices, 
carefully taking out the cores, which, if allowed to remain, will 
cause the preserves to ferment. Put a pound of sugar to a 
pound of fruit, and let it remain all night to make the syrup. 
Boil then till done, without adding a drop of water to the syrup. 
—Mrs. F. 0. 

Orange Preserves. 
Peel a thin riud oif the oranges and make a hole in each end, 
getting out all the seed. Pour boiling water over them and let 
them stand till next morning. If the water tastes bitter, search 
for seed. Pour boiling water over them every day, as long as 
the bitterness remains. Boil till soft enough to run a straw 
through them. Add a pound and a half sugar to each pound 
fruit. Make a thin syrup of half the sugar, and boil the oranges 
in it a short time. Let them stand in the syrup three days, 
then pour the syruj from the fruit, put the rest of the sugar to 



ORANGE MAKMALADE SLICED LEMON PEESEEVES. 441 

it,, and boil it down thick. Then pour it orer the fruit. A 
few lemons added is a great improvement. — Mrs. tT. H. 

Orange Marmalade. 
Peel the oranges, taking all the seed and tough skin out of 
them. Cut the peel in small pieces, put in cold water and boil 
till tender. Make a syrup, one pound sugar to one pint water. 
Put a pound of the oranges (mixed with the peel) to a pint of 
the syruj), and boil all for two hours. — Mrs. G. G. McP 

Orange Marm,alade. 

The day before making, peel one dozen oranges (no matter 
how sour and indifferent). Throw the peel in a bucket of 
water, take out the seed, cut up the pulp fine with a pair of 
old scissors. Then take the peel, cut it in thin strips and throw 
it into fresh water. Pare and slice jjippins (or any other nice 
apple). Weigh six pounds of them, stew with a little water till 
perioctly done, and set away. Next day, run this pulp through 
a co^dnder into a preserving kettle. Add six pounds sugar and 
boil si'owly, constantly scraping from the bottom. 

Tan 3 the orange peel (which should have been left in soak all 
night), boil till perfectly soft and free from bitterness, changing 
the w.iter three times while boiling. In another pieserving 
kettle, simmer this with the orange pulp and two pounds sugar. 
When both are nearly done, turn the oranges into the apples 
and cook them very thick. Cool in a bowl, and then put in a 
glass jar with a screw top. — Mrs. S. T. 

Sliced Lemon Preserves. 
Take large, firm lemons, not quite ripe, cut in slices one- 
quarter inch thick, and take out the seed. Soak in brine a week. 
Then soak several days in clear water, changing the water twice 
a day. When all the salt and the bitter taste are extracted, 
weigh the lemons and boil till tender enough to pierce with a 
straw. Make a thin syrup, allowing one pound of sugar to 



448 LEMON MARMALADE PEACH PRESERVES. 

each pound of fruit. Tut the lemons in and let them simmei 
slowly a good many hours. Pour into a large bowl and let it 
remain there several days. At the end of that time strain the 
syrup (which will have become thin), put the lemons in it 
again, and boil till they jelly. When cool put in a glass jar 
with a screw top. The same recipe may be used for oranges. — 
Mrs. S. T. 

Lemon Marmalade. 

Every housekeeper should keep a large jar, or other nice 
vessel, filled with brine, in which she may throw lemon peels 
after being deprived of the grated rind and juice, used for 
creams, jellies, etc. These may remain any length of time, to 
suit one's convenience. Before preserving, soak in pure water 
till all the taste of salt is extracted. Boil till soft enough to 
pierce with a straw. Then put in a preserving kettle nine 
pounds cut sugar and one quart water. As soon as it boils, add 
six pounds lemon peel and three pounds nice sliced apples 
(pippins are best). Boil till very thick. — Mrs. S. 2\ 

Lemon Preserves 
May be made of lemon peel, prepared exactly by the above 
recipe. Put the peel in a preserving kettle and keep covered, 
while boiling in clear water, till you can run a straw through 
it. Then throw it into a rich syrup (one pound sugar to one 
of lemon peel), and boil a long time. Put in a bowl till the 
next day; then take the syrup (which will be somewhat thin) 
and boil again till very thick. Pour it over the lemon, and when 
cold it will be jellied.— ilfrs. S. T. 

Peach Preserves. 
Pare white freestone peaches, not quite ripe. Split in half, 
take out the stones, and throw the peaches in a bucket of water 
to prevent them from turning dark. Make a syrup of white 
sugar, using as many pounds of sagar as you have pounds of 
peaches. When it has boiled thick, put in as many peaches at 



PEACH PEBSEEVES — BBANDY PEACHES. 449 

will cover the bottom of the kettle. Let them boil till nearly 
done ; then take them out, one by one, in a perforated spoon. 
Lay them in dishes and set in the sun. When all the peaches 
have been carried through this process, put back the first dish 
of peaches in the kettle, taking them out when a pretty amber 
color, and so on till all have been boiled twice. Meantime the 
peach-kernels should have been scalded and skinned. Put them 
in the boiling syrup, which must be kept on the fire till very 
thick. Put the peaches when cool in glass jars, and pour the 
syrup over them. In a few days examine, and if the syrup has 
become thin, boil again. — Mrs. S. T. 

Peach Preserves. 
Pare, and add to a pound of peaches one and one-quarter 
pounds best sugar. Cook very fast for a few moments, in a 
porcelain kettle. Turn out in a bowl, cover with muslin or 
cambric, set in the sun, stirring everj' day till they seem quite 
transparent. They retain their flavor much better this way than 
when cooked on tlie fire. Put in jars, cover with paper saturated 
with brandy, and tie up tightly to exclude the air. — Mrs. P. W. 

Peach Marmalade. 
Boil twelve pounds soft peaches in a little water. When re- 
duced to a pulp, run through a colander and boil again till very 
thick, constantly scraping from the bottom. Add half a pound 
sugar to one pound fruit. Cool in a bowl, and then put in glass 
jars with screw tops. Pear marmalade may be made by the 
same recipe, and also apple marmalade, except that you flavor 
the last with lemon juice and rind. — Mrs. S. T. 

Brandy Peaches. 

For tvielve pounds large freestone Heath peaches, not quite 

ripe and delicately pared, make a syrup of four pounds sugar. 

Scald a few peaches at a time in the syrup, till all have gone 

through ';his process. Place on dishes to cool. Then put in 

38 



450 BEANDT PEACHES CKAB APPLE PEESKKVES. 

glass jars and add enough good whiskey or brandy to the syiuf 
to cover the peaches. Any spirit will do, if strong enough. 
Add a few blanched peach-kernels. In a few days see if more 
liquor or sugar is required. If so, drain oif the syrup, add what 
is needed, and pour again over the fruit. It is a mistake to put 
too much sugar. Always vise freestone peaches. — Mrs. S. T. 

Srandy JPeaches. 
Put the peaches (a few at a time) in boiling lye. Let them 
remain five minutes, to loosen the fur. Then take them out and 
wipe perfectly clean and white. Then drop them in cold water. 
Boil them gently in a rich syrup till a straw will pierce them. 
Then put in a jar, and mix equal parts of French brandy with 
the syrup. Carefully exclude the air. — Mrs. G. iV. 

Pear Preserves. 
Scald the fruit, but do not let it remain till it comes to 
pieces. Boil till clear, in a syrup made of as many pounds of 
sugar as you have of fruit. — Mrs. J. J. A. 

Preserved Apples for Winter Use. 
Pare and slice pippins. Put to each pound apples half a 
pound sugar, and to every eight pounds thus sweetened one 
quart water, a few cloves, the thin rind and juice of a lemon. 
Stew till clear, and eat with cream. — Mrs. JB. J". S. 

Apple Mange. 
Stew and mash well three pounds pippins, then add three 
pounds sugar. Just before they are done, add a few drops 
lemon juice. Put in moulds and it will keep two years. 
Turned out and sliced, it is a nice dish for tea. Quirces are as 
nice as apples, prepared this way. — 3Trs. £. J". JS. 

Crab Apple Preserves. 
Put the crab apples in a kettle, with some alum, keeping 



QUINCE JAM OIIKKUY PKKSEEVJCS. 4-51 

them scalding hot for an hour. Take them out, skin and ex- 
tract the seed with a small knife, leaving on the stems. Put 
them in cold water awhile, then take them out, wipe them and 
put them in a syrup made of as many pounds sugar as you have 
of fruit. Let them stew gently till they look clear, then take 
them out and let the syrup boil longer. Siberian crabs may be 
preserved in the same way, except that they are not peeled and 
cored. 

Quince Jam. 

Pour boiling water over them and let them remain till the 
skin rubs off easily. Then peel them and cut off the fair slices. 
To each pound put twelve ounces sugar, and let them stew 
together till the syrup is sufficiently thick. 

Quince preserves may be made by the same recipe as that 
used for pears. 

Damson Pkeserves. 

With a sharp penknife, cut a longslit lengthwise in each dam- 
son. Spread in dishes and set in the sun till the seed comes 
out readily. Then boil till thoroughly done in a thick syrup 
made of as many pounds sugar as there are pounds of damsons. 

Preserve green gage plums and other plums by the same 
rficipe. — Miss F. 

Fox Grape Pkeserves. 

Seed the grapes, then pour scalding water on them and let 
them stand till cold ; then draw off the water, p\it one pound 
sugar to one pound of grapes, and boil gently about twenty min- 
utes. — Mrs. A. D. 

Cherry Preserves. 

Wash, pick and stone the cherries, saving the juice. Allow 
one pound sugar to each pound fruiu. Boil the juice and sugar 
to .1 thick syrup, then put in half the cherries and stew till 
nearly done. Take them out with a perforated spoon and lay 
on dishes. Put in the other half, let them stew as long as the 
first ; then take out and lay in dishes. Meantime boil the syruf 



4-52 BTEAWBEERT PKBSKEVES FIG PEESERVES. 

gently. When the cherries are cool, put them again in the syrup 
and boil a short time. Pour in a large bowl and cool, then put 
in glass jars and cover tightly. 

Scarlet short stems and large wax cherries are best for pre- 
serving. — Mrs. S. T. 

Stkawbekry Preserves. 

Caj) the berries. Put one and a half pounds sugar to each 
pound fruit. Let them stand two or three hours, and then boil 
thirty minutes. 

Strawberry Jam. 

Cap and wash the berries, and put them on to stew with a very 
small quantity of water. Stir constantly. When thoroughly 
done and mashed to a soft pulp, add one pound sugar to each 
pound fruit. The advantage of adding sugar last is that it pre- 
serves the color and flavor of the fruit. Stew till sufficiently 
thick, scraping constantly from the bottom with a batter-cake 
turner. — Mrs. S. T. 

Raspberry Jam. 

Wash and pick the berries, boil with a little water, mashing 
and scraping from the bottom as they simmer. When reduced 
to a thick pulp, add one-half pound sugar to each pound berries. 
Stew till very thick, scraping constantly from the bottom. Cool 
in a large bowl, then put in a glass jar with screw top. Black- 
berry, Dewberry, and Whortleberry Jam may be made by the 
same recipe. 

Fig Preserves. 
Pick the figs fully ripe the evening before. Cut off about 
half the stem, and let them soak all night in very weak salt and 
water. Drain off the salt water in the morning and cover them 
with fresh. Make a thick syrup, allowing three-quarters pound 
loaf sugar to each pound fruit. When it boils, drop the figs 
carefully in and let them cook till they look clear. When done 
take from the fire and season with extract of lemon or ginger. 



TOMATO PEESEEVE8 ^EECIPE FOE PUTTING UP FEUIT. 453 

The figs imist not be peeled, as the salt water removes the 
roughness from the skin and keeps the fruit firm and hard. — 
Miss A. S. 

Tomato Preserves (either ripe or green). 
The 3ay before preserving, peel and weigh eight pounds pale 
J sllo'vi , pear-shaped or round tomatoes, not quite ripe ; spread 
on dishes alternate layers of tomato and sugar, mixing with the 
latter the grated rind and juice of four lemons. In the morn- 
ing, drain oif the juice and sugar and boil to a thick syrup. 
Drop in half the tomatoes and boil till transparent. Take up 
with a perforated spoon and put on dishes to cool. Then carry 
the other half through exactly the same process. Then strain 
the juice, wash the kettle, and put in the juice again. When it 
boils hard, put in again the first boiled tomatoes. Take them 
out when they become amber color, and put in the rest. When 
they are all boiled to an amber color, and cooled on dishes, put 
them in half-gallon glass jars, and add the syrup after it has 
been boiled to a thick jelly. — Mrs. S. T. 

Green Tomato Sweetmeats. 
SHce the tomatoes and soak them a day and night in salt and 
water, then in fresh water for an hour or two, then scald in 
alum water with grape leaves. When taken out of alum water, 
put ia cold water to cook. Scald in ginger-tea and again put 
in cold water, while you make the syrup. To each pound toma- 
toes put one and a quarter pounds sugar and a few races of 
white ginger. Cook the tomatoes till clear, the syrup till thick. 
When cool, season the syrup with essence of lemon and pour 
over the tomatoes. — Mrs. C. M. 

Eeoipe for putting UP Fruit. 

For fruit not very acid, weigh one-quarter of a pound white 

sugar to one pound fruit perfectly ripe. After sprinkling the 

fruit with sugar, put it in a preserving kettle and let it just 

come to a boil. Then put it quickly in glass self-sealing cans, 



454 CANDIED FBTnT OUEEANT JELLY WITHOUT COOKING. 

being careful to screw down the tops tightly. — Mrs. l)r, E. 
T.B. 

Candied Feuit. 

Preserve the fruit, then dip it in sugar boiled to a candied 
thickness, and dry it. Grapes and some other fruits may be 
dipped in uncooked. 

Lemon Conserves. 

Wash and dry ten lemons. Pare the yellow rind off clear of 
the white, and beat it in a mortar with double its weight of 
sugar. Pack closely in a jar and cover with part of the sugar. 
—Mrs. T. 

Orange Conserves. 

Cut the peel in long, thin strips, and stew in water till all 
bitterness is extracted. Drain off this water and stew again in 
a thick syrup, allowing one pound sugar to each pound peel. 
Put away in a cool place for flavoring puddings, pies, etc. 

Peach Conserves. 

Pare the peaches and cut them ft-om the stone in thick slices. 
Make a syrup, allowing three-quarters pound sugar to each 
pound fruit. Boil the peaches and put them on dishes to dry. 
As they dry, roll them in granulated sugar, and pack in jars or 
boxes. — Mrs. W. P. 

Golden Syrup. 

Five pounds white sugar ; one quart water. Let it boil two 
or three minutes, then add two pounds strained honey. It will 
keep for months. — Mrs. D. C. 

Blackberry Jelly. 
Crush one quart blackberries with one pound best loaf sugar. 
Cook it over a gentle fire till thick, then add one gill best brandy. 
Stir it while over the fire, then put it in pots. — Mrs. E. 

Currant Jelly without cooking. 
Press the juice from the currants and strain it. To one pint 



CUERANT JELLY APPLE JELLY. 455 

jmce put jne pound white sugar. Mix together till the sugar 
is dissolved. Then put them in jars, seal them and expose them 
to a hot sun two or three days. — Mrs. M. 

Currant Jelly. 

Pick I'ipe currants from the stem, and put them in a stone 
jar. Then set the jar in an iron pot and let the fruit boil till 
the juice is extracted. Pour in a flannel bag and let it drip 
through — without squeezing, however, as this makes it cloudy. 

To each pint of juice add one pound good white sugar. Boil 
about twenty minutes and keep it well skimmed. Put in the 
glasses while hot, and sun daily. — Mrs. P. W. 

Cranberry Jelly. 
Wash and pick the cranberries, put them in the preserving 
kettle with a very small quantity of water, cover closely and 
stew till done. Pour through a jelly bag or coarse towel, with- 
out squeezing, as this will prevent it from being clear. Measure 
and pour the liquid into the preserving kettle. Let it boil up 
and remove the scum, then add the sugar, cut or loaf, one pound 
to a pint. Boil about twenty minutes, or until it jellies. It 
preserves the color of fruit jellies to add the sugar as late as 
possible. — Mrs. S. T. 

Apple Jelly. 
Take half a peck of pippin apples, wash them clean, slice 
them from the core, put them in a preserving kettle with a 
quart of water. Boil till entirely soft, then strain through a 
flannel bag. To each pint of juice add one pound white sugar 
and the juice of three lemons. Boil till jellied. Do not stir 
v-hile boiling. — Mrs. P. W. 

Apple Jelly. 
Pare and stew sour, juicy apples (Greenings are best), in 
enough water to cover them. Strain as for cui'rant jelly, 



456 APPLE JELLY — OEANGE JELLY. 

Allow a pound of sugar for each pound of juice. Put them 
together and strain. Boil four or five minutes, skimming thor- 
oughly. — Mrs. M. H. S. 

Apple Jelly. 
Take any number of juicy apples, put them in a porcelain 
kettle, and boil to rags. Then strain them through a cloth or 
sieve. Put a pound of loaf sugar to each pint of the juice, and 
boil till it jellies. Flavor with the seed beaten in a mortar, 
and put in while the apples are cooking. — Mrs. G. "W. 

Crab Apple Jelly. 
Slice the apples, take out the cores and seed, as they make the 
jelly bitter. Put them in a kettle cover with water, and boil 
till quite soft, keeping it well skimmed. Pour the pulp in a 
jelly bag, and let it drip through. To each pint of juice, add 
one pound and a half of sugar. Pour in the glasses while hot. 
Delicious with meats. — Mrs. P. TV. 

Quince Jelly. 
Make the same as apple jelly, only do not pare or core tlie 
fruit, as much of the jelly is contained in those parts. Or, yon 
may take the sound parings and cores, stew them and strain 
the liquor twice, and you will have a jelly as nice as that 
made from the fruit. To each pound of juice allow one pound 
of sugar. Boil fifteen minutes. — Mrs. M. B. B. 

Orange Jelly. 
Grate the rinds of two Seville and two China oranges, and 
two lemons. Squeeze the juice of six oranges and three lemons. 
Add one and a quarter pounds of loaf sugar and one-quarter of a 
pint of water, and boil till it jellies. Have ready a quart of 
isinglass jelly, made quite stiff. Put it to the syrup and lot it 
boil up once. Then strain it and put it in a mould. — Mrs. V. 
P. M. 



jelly oranges — guape jelly. 45y 

Jelly Okanges. 
Dissolve one package gelatine in one cup cold water, after- 
wards adding two cups boiling water to thoroughly dissolve it. 
Add then three cups white sugar, one-quarter teaspoonful cin- 
namon, grated rind of three oranges, juice of twelve fine 
oranges. Strain through a flannel bag into a pitcher, without 
shaking or squeezing. Extract the pulp from the orange, by 
making a hole in one end of it large enough to admit a mus- 
tard spoon. Soak the rind a few hours, and then pour the 
jelly into each orange through the whole at the end. Then set 
aside to congeal. Garnish with orange leaves. Cut each 
orange in two. A very ornamental dish. — Mrs. McG. 

Green Grape Jelly. 
Gather Catawba grapes before ripening. Pick them from 
the stem, wash them, and put them in a stone jar. Set the 
jar in a kettle of cold water over a hot fire. When the juice 
comes out of the grapes, take the kettle off and strain the 
grapes. To each pint of j uice put one pound of the best loaf 
sugar. Boil twenty minutes in the kettle. Ripe grape jelly 
may be made in the same way. — Mrs. E. 

Grape Jelly. 
The chief art in making jelly is to boil it continuously, slowly 
and gently. It will not harden well if the boiling stops, even 
for a few moments. To jjreserve the true color and flavor of 
fruit in jellies or jams, boil well before adding the sugar; in 
this way the water contained in all fiuit juices is evaporated. 
Heat the sugar before adding it. In making grape jelly, pick 
the grapes from their stems, wash them, put them over the fire 
in a vessel containing a little water, to keep them from burn- 
ing. Stew a few moments ; mash gently with a silver spoon, 
strain, and to every pint of juice, allow one pound of white 
Buga»' After the juice comes to the boiling jjoint, boil twenty 

39 



'158 REMEDY FOE MOULDINESS IN FRUIT JELLIES. 

minutes, pour it over the heated sugar, and stii constantly till 
all is dissolved. Then fill the jelly glasses. — J. I. M. 

Remedy for Mouldiness in Fruit Jellies. 

Fruit jellies may be preserved from mouldiness by covering 
the surface one-quarter of an inch deep with finely pulverized 
loaf sugar. Thus protected, they will keep for years. — Mrs. 11. 
CM. W. 

Tomato Jelly. 

Take ripe tomatoes, peel them carefull}', cutting out all the 
seams and rough places. To every pound put half a pound of 
sugar. Season with white ginger and mace. Boil to a stiff 
jelly, then add enough good cider vinegar to keep it. — Mrs. 
Ur. P. G. 

Sugar Candy. 

Two cupfuls sugai', one cupful water, one wincglassful vine- 
gar, one tablespoonful butter. Cook ten or fifteen minutes. — 
Mrs. Dr. J. 

Sugar Candy. 
Three cupfuls sugar, half a cupful vinegar, lialf a cupful water, 
juice of one lemon. Boil without stirring, till brittle. Pour 
on a buttered dish and pull till white and light. — 3Irs. McG. 

Sugar Kisses. 
Whisk the whites of four eggs to a stiff froth and stir in half 
a pound sifted white sugar. Flavor as you like. Lay it when 
stiff in heaps the size of a small egg, on white paper-. Lay on a 
board half an inch thick and [lut in a hot oven. When a little 
yellowish, slip off two of the kisses with a knife and join the 
bottom parts together. Continue till all are thus jireparcd. — 
Mrs. E. 

Nut Candy. 

Make sugar cand3' by one of tlie foregoing receipts, but instead 



CfiEAM CANDY — CAKAMELS. 459 

of pouring it into a dish, drop it at intervals over a bul.tered 
dish. On each bit of candy thus dropped, lay half the kernel of 
an English walnut, and when a little cool, pour half a spoonful 
of sugar candy on top. Candy of almonds, pecans, or palm nuts 
may be made by the same recipe. — Mrs. 8. T. 

Cream Candy. 
Two pounds of sugar, half a cup water, two tablespoonfuls 
vinegar, one tablespoonful butter. Boil twenty minutes. Sea- 
son with lemon or vanilla, just as you take it oif. Put in a 
dish and stir till cold. — Mrs. McN'. 

Molasses Candy. 
Boil one quart molasses in a rather deep vessel. Boil stead- 
ily, stirring from sides and bottom. When a little, poured in a 
glass of cold water, becomes brittle, it is done. Pour in a but- 
tered dish and pull as soon as cool enough to handle, or you 
.may stir in, when it is nearly done, some picked kernels of the 
common black walnut. Boil a little longer, pour on a buttered 
dish, and cut in squares just before it gets cold. — Mrs. S. T. 

Caramels. 
One cake (half a pound) of Baker's chocolate broken up, 
four pounds brown sugar, half a pound fresh butter, one pint 
of milk. Pour the milk in a preserving kettle and pour the 
other ingredients into this. Let it boil at least half an hour, 
stirring frequently. When done, a crust of sugar will form on 
the spoon and on the side of the kettle. Pour in a large table- 
spoonful extract of vanilla, take from the fire and stir rapidly 
till it begins to thicken like mush. Then pour quickly into 
buttered dishes or pans, and when nearly cold cut into small 
squares. — Mrs. S. T. 

Ca/ramds. 
Three pounds white sugar, half a pound of chocolate, one pint 



460 CHOCOLATE CARAMELS COCOANUT BALLS. 

milk, six ounces of butter. Boil three-quarters of an hour aud 
stir constantly. — Jifrs. H. C 

Chocolate Caramels. 
Two and one-half pounds of sugar, three-quarters pound of 
chocolate, one quarter pound of butter, half a pint of milk or 
cream. — Mrs. W. O. E. 

Cream Chocolate. 
One cupful of cream, with enough white sugar to thicken it. 
Boil till thick, and when cold, roll up in little balls and put 
them on a dish on which has been poured some melted choco- 
late. Then pour over them with a spoon some melted choco- 
late. When quite cool, cut apart and trim oft" the edges, if 
uneven. This cream should be seasoned with a few drops of 
vanilla and the dish should be buttered. — Miss N. 

CocoANUT Caramels. 
One-quarter pound Baker's chocolate (half cake), one-quarter 
pound butter, two pounds nice brown sugar, one teacup rich 
milk. Stew half an hour or till thick. Add a grated cocoanut. 
Stir till it begins to boil again. Take from the fire, stir in a 
tablespoonful vanilla, and pour into buttered dishes. When 
cool enough to handle, make into balls, the size of a walnut and 
place on buttered dishes. — Mrs. S. T. 

Cocoanut Caramels. 
Pour a teacup of boiling milk over one-quarter cake of 
pounded chocolate. Let it steep an hour, then add one and one- 
quarter pounds of white sugar, and the milk of a cocoanut. Boil 
till perfectly done. Then remove from the tire, adding the grated 
cocomut. Season with vanilla, pour in buttered dishes, and cut 
in blocks.— ilfM. W. C. 

Cocoanut Bal* s. 
Wet two pounds of sugar with tho milk of a cocoanut. Boil 



COCOANUT DEOPS WINE. 461 

and stir til] it begins to granulate. Then stir in the cocoanut 
grated fine. Boil a short time longer, then pour into butt3red 
dishes, and as soon as it can be handled make into balls. — Mrs. 
J.M. 

Cocoanut Drops. 
The white part of a grated cocoanut, whites of four eggs 
well beaten, one-half pound sifted white sugar. Flavor with 
rose water or lemon. Mix all as thick as can be stirred ; lay in 
heaps half an inch apart, on paper or on a baking-pan, in a hot 
oven. Take them out when they begin to look yellowish. — 
Mrs. B. 

Almond Macaroons. 
One-half pound almonds, blanched and pounded, with a tea- 
spoonful essence of lemon, till m, smooth paste. Add an equal 
quantity of sifted white sugar and the whites of two eggs. 
Woi'k well together with a spoon. Dip your hand into water 
and work them into balls the size of a nutmeg. Lay them on 
white paper an inch apart; then dip your hand in watei and 
smooth them. Put them in a slow oven for three-quarters of 
an hour. Cocoanut may be used instead of almonds. — Mrs. M 
G.H. 



WINE. 

Be sure to get perfectly ripe fruit for making wine, but do 
not gather it immediately after rain, as it is watery then and 
less sweet than usual. 

Be very careful to stop the wine securely as soon as fermen- 
tation ceases, as otheiwise it will lose its strength and flavor. 
Watch carefully to see when fermentation ceases. 

Strawberry wine makes a delicious flavoring for syllabub, 
cake, jelly, etc., and so does gooseberry wine. Dewberries 



462 



BLACKBKEEY WINE. 



make a prettier and better wine than blackberries, and have all 
the medicinal virtues of the latter. 

The clearest wine is made without straining, by the following 
process : Take a tub or barrel (a flour-barrel for instance), and 
make a little pen of sticks of wood at the bottom. On top of 
this pen lay an armful of clean straw. Bore a hole in the 
side of the tub or barrel as near the bottom as possible, and set 
it on a stool or box so as to admit of setting a vessel underneath 
it. After mashing the berries intended for wine, put them on top 
the straw, and let the juice drain through it and run through the 
hole at the side of the tub or barrel into the vessel set beneath 
to catch it. Be careful to have this vessel large enough to 
avoid its being overrun. Any open stone vessel not used be- 
fore for pickle will answer, or a bucket or other wooden vessel 
may be used. Let the berries remain on the straw and drain 
from evening till the next morning. Some persons make a 
slight variation on the process above described, by poviring hot 
water over the berries after putting them on the straw. After 
the draining is over, an inferior sort of wine may be made by 
squeezing the berries. 

The following process will make wine perfectly clear : To a 
half-gallon of wine put two wine-glasses of sweet milk. Stir 
it into the wine and pour it all in a transparent half-gallon bottle. 
Stop it and set it by for twenty-four hours, at the end of which 
time the wine will be beautifully clear, the sediment settling 
with the milk at the bottom. Pour off the wine carefully into 
another bottle, not allowing any of the sediment or milk to get 
into the fresh bottle. The same directions apply to vinegar. 

Blackberry Wine. 
Fill large stone jars with ripe black or dewberries. Cover 
them with water, mash them, and let them stand several hours, 
or, if freshly gathered, let them stand all night. Then strain 
through a thick cloth and add three pounds white sugar to each 
gallon of juice. Let the wine stand a fev days in the jars, 



BLACKBEEEY WINK. 4:63 

stirring and skimming each day. Put it in a demijohn, but 
do not coik it up for some time. — Mrs. M. D. 

Elackherry "Wine. 
Measure the berries and bruise them ; to every gallon adding 
one quart of boiling water. Let it stand twenty-four hours, 
stiri mg Occasionally ; then strain off the liquor into a cask, add- 
ing two pounds sugar to every gallon. Cork tight and let it 
stand till the following October, when it will be ready for use 
without further boiling or straining. 

£lackberry Wine. 
One bushel very ripe berries makes ten gallons wine. Mash 
the hemes as fine as posKible and pour over them a water-bucket 
of clear spring water. Cover it and let it stand twenty-four 
hours to ferment. Next day strain through a cloth, and to every 
three quarts jviice add two quarts clear cold water and five 
pounds common brown sugar. Pour in a demijohn or runlet, 
reserving some to fill the vessel as fermentation goes on. After 
six or eight days, put to every ten gallons one-half box gelatine. 
After two weeks, cover the bung-hole with a piece of muslin. 
Two or three weeks later, coi-k tightly and then leave undisturb- 
ed for six months. After that time, bottle and seal. Superior 
currant wine may be made by this recipe. — Mrs. F. 

Slachherry Wine. 
Fill a large stone jar with the ripe fruit and cover it with 
water. Tie a cloth over the jar and let them stand three or 
four days to ferment ; then mash and press them through a 
cloth. To every gallou of juice add three pounds of brown 
sugar. Return the mixture to the jar and cover closely. Skim 
it every morning for more than a week, until it cl(;ars from the 
second fermentation. When clear, pour it carefully from the 
sediment into a demijohn. Cork tightly, set in a cool place 



464: GEAPB WINE CATAWBA GEAPE WINE. 

When two months old it will be fit for use. — Mrs. Gen. R. A, 
Z,ee. 

[Copied from a recipe in Mrs. Lee's own handwriting.] 

Gkape Wine. 
Take any convenient quantity of perfectly ripe grapes. Mash 
them so as to break all the skins, and put them in a tub or 
other clean vessel, and let them remain twenty -four hours ; with 
a cider-press or other convenient apparatus, express all the juice, 
and to each gallon of juice thus obtained add from two to two 
and a half pounds of white sugar (if the grapes are sweet, two 
pounds will be enough), put the juice and sugar in a keg or 
barrel, and cover the bung-hole with a piece of muslin, so the 
gas can escape and dust and insects cannot get in ; let it remain 
perfectly quiet until cold weather, then bung up tightly. This 
wine will need no clarifying ; if allowed to rest perfectly still 
it can be drawn off perfectly clear. — 3fr. W. A. S. 

Grape Wine. 

Pick the grapes from the bunch, mash thoroughly, and let 
them stand twenty-four hours. Then strain and add three 
pounds of sugar to every gallon of juice. Leave in a cask six 
months, and then bottle, putting three raisins in each bottle. — 
Mrs. JR. L. 

Grape Wine. 

Press the grapes, and when the jiiice settles, add two pounds 
of white sugar to four quarts of juice. Let it stand twenty-four 
hours, drain, put in a cask ; do not stop tightly till the fermen- 
tation is over. — Mrs. JR. A. 

Catawba Grape Wine. 

Mash ripe grapes to a pulp, and let them stand twenty-four 

hours. Then squeeze through a cloth, and add two pounds of 

sugar to each gallon of pure juice. Put in a cask, leave the 

bung out, and put coarse muslin over the hole to admit the air. 



CATAWUA GEAPE WINE NATIVE GEAPE WINE. 465 

Let it stand six weeks, or till fermentation ceases. Then close 
the mouth of the cask and let the wine stand several months, 
after which it may be drawn off. — Mrs. li. J). 

Catawba Grape Wine. 
To every gallon of grape juice add one quart of cold, clear 
water, and three pounds of " A " sugar. Pour into a runlet and 
let it remain uncorked fourteen days, and then cork loosely. 
Add half a box gelatine to every ten gallons, fourteen days after 
making it. At the end of a month tighten tlie cork, then let it 
remain undisturbed for six months, after which it may be care- 
fully racked, bottled, and sealed. — Mrs. Dr. E. 

Fox Grape Wine. 

To every bushel of fox grapes add twenty-two quarts of water. 
Mash the fruit and let it stand twenty-four hours. Strain 
through a linen or tine sieve that will prevent the seed from 
getting through. To every gallon of juice add two pounds of 
brown sugar. Fill the cask not quite full. Let it stand open 
fourteen days, and then close the bung. — Mrs. Gren. R. E Lee. 

[The above was copied from an autograph recipe of Mrs. 
Lee's, kindly furnished by her daughter.] 

Wild Black Grape Wine. 

rick the grapes from the stem and cover with water. Mash 
and strain immediately. Add three pounds white sugar to one 
gallon juice. Garden grape wine is made in the same way. If 
you prefer a red wine, let the water stand on the grapes all 
night. The light wine is the best, however. 

This wine has to be kept much longer than blackberry wine 
before it is fit for use. — Mrs. M. D. 

Native Grape Wine. 
Pick all the perfect grapes from the bunches, wash tliem and 
pack them down in a wooden or stone vessel. Pour over them 



466 GOOSEBEEET WINE — OUEEANT WINE. 

boiling water — about one quart to every bushel of grapes. Tie 
a cloth over them and let them stand a week or ten days. 
Then strain it and add three pounds sugar to every gallon juice, 
mixing it well. Put in demijohns and tie a cloth over the top. 
Let it stand six months, and then cork it tightly. The wine 
will be fit for use in nine months. — Mrs. Dr. S. 

Gooseberry Wine. 
To every gallon of gooseberries add three pints of boiling 
water. Let it stand two days, then mash and squeeze out the 
juice, to every gallon of which add three pounds of sugar. Put 
it in a cask and draw off about the usual time of drawing off 
other wines. — Mrs. H. T. H. A. 

Currant Wine. 

Put three pounds of brown sugar to every squeezed gallon of 
currants. Add a gallon of water, or two, if juice is scarce. It 
is better to put it in an old wine-cask and let it stand a year 
before you draw it off. — Mrs. Gen. R. M. Lee. 

[Copied from a recipe in her own handwriting.] 

Currant Wine. 
Mash the currants well and strain through a linen towel. 
Add a gallon of water to every gallon of juice. Allow thi-ee 
pounds sugar to every gallon of the mixture. Put in a cask 
and cork loosely till fermentation is over. Bottle in Sej)tein- 
bar.— Mrs. Dr. iS. 

Owrrant Wine. 
To one gallon well picked and washed currants, add cne 
gallon water. Let it stand twenty-four hours, then strain 
through a flax linen cloth. Add to a gallou of juice and water 
three pounds brown sugar. Let it stand fourteen days in a 
clean, open cask. — Mrs. Dr. M. 



cheery wine tomato wine. 467 

Cpierry Wine. 

Measure the berries and bruise them, adding to every gallon 
one quart boiling water. Let it stand twenty-four hours, stir- 
ring occasionally. Then strain off the liquor, put in ajar, add- 
ing two pounds sugar to every gallon. Stop tightly, and let it 
stand till the next October, when it will be fit for use without 
straining or boiling. 

Stbawbbrry Wine. 

Mash the berries and add to each gallon of fruit a half- 
gallon boiling water. Let it stand twenty-four hours, then 
strain and add three pounds brown sugar to each gallon juice. 
Let it stand thirty-six hours, skimming the impurities that rise 
to the top. Put in a cask, reserving some to add as it escapes 
from the cask. Fill each morning. Cork and seal tightly 
after the fermentation is over. — Mrs. E. 

ORAifGE "Wine. 
One gallon juice of sour oranges, foxir gallons water, twenty 
pounds sugar. Boil it and clarify with the whites of two eggs ; 
skim the liquid tiU the scum has disappeared. Pour into a 
vessel of suitable size, taking the precaution to first strain it 
through flannel. Add three-quarters of a bottle of raw juice 
and let it ferment. Bottle in six months. Put less sugar if 
you prefer a wine less sweet. — Mrs. N. 

Cider Wine. 

One gallon sweet cider, three pounds sugar. Put in a cask 

and let it ferment. Keep the vessel full so that it will run 

over. Let it stand fifteen days. Put the corks in a little 

tighter every day. Let it stand three months, then botble and 

s(al up. — M'y-s. E. B. 

Tomato Wine. 

Pick small, ripe tomatoes off the stems, put them in a clean 
bucket or tub, mash well, and strain through a linen rag (a 
bushel will make five gallons of juice). Add from two and a 



468 EGGNOG APPLE TODDY. 

half to three pounds brown sugar to each gallon. Put in a cask 
and let it ferment like raspberry wine. If two gallons water 
be added to a bushel of tomatoes, the wiue will be as good. — 
Mrs. A. D. 

Eggnog. 

To each egg one tablespoonful of sugar, one wine-glassful of 
milk, one wine-glassful of liquor. The sugar and yolks to be 
well beiiten together, and the whites (well beaten) added by 
degrees. To twelve eggs, put eight glassfuls of brandy and 
four of wine. Put the liquor in the yolks and sugar, stirring 
slowly all the time ; then add the whites, and lastly the milk. — ■ 
Mrs. F. 

Eggnog. 

Three dozen eggs, three pounds of sugar, half a gallon of 
brandy, half a pint of French brandy, half a gallon of milk. 
Beat the yolks and whites separately. Stir the sugar thor- 
oughly into the yolks, add the brandy slowly so as to cook the 
eggs, then add the milk, and lastly the whites, with grated nut- 
meg, reserving enough for top-dressing. — Mrs. P. TV. 

Eggnog. 
Take any number of eggs you wish, beat the whites and yolks 
separately and as light as possible. Stir into the yolks, while 
beating, a tablespoonful of sugar to each egg. Then pour on 
the yolks and sugar a small wine-glassful of wine, flavored with 
a little vanilla, to each egg. On that pour a wine-glassful of 
rich milk or cream to each egg. Beat the whites as if for cake, 
tlien beat in enough sugar to make them smooth and stift'. Stir 
this into the eggnog for twenty minutes, and grate nutmeg on 
the top. — Mrs. H. C. 

Apple Toddy. 

Half a gallon of apple brandy, half a pint of French brandy, 
half a pint of peach brandy, half a pint of Madeira wine, six 
apples, baked without peeling, one pound of sugar, with enough 



Al^PLE TODDY ROMAN PUNCH. 469 

hot water to dissolve it; spice, if you like. This toddy, 
bottled after straining, will keep for years, and improve with 
age.— Mrs. C. C. McP. 

Apple Toddy. 
One gallon of apple brandy or whiskey, one and a half gallon 
of hot water, well sweetened, one dozen large apples, wel. 
roasted, two grated nutmegs, one gill of allspice, one gill of 
cloves, a pinch of mace. Season with half a pint of good rum. 
Let it stand three or four days before using. — Col. S. 

Rum Punch. 

Make a rich, sweet lemonade, add rum and brandy to taste, 
only dashing with brandy. It must be sweet and strong. — Jifrs. 
D.Ji. 

Regent Punch. 

One pint of strong black tea (in which put the rind of four 
lemons cut very thin). Two pounds of sugar, juice of six 
lemons, juice of six oranges, one pint of French brandy, one 
pint of rum, two quarts of champagne. Serve in a bowl, with 
plenty of ice.— Mrs. O. C. McP. 

Tea Punch. 
Three cups of strong green tea (in which put the rind of six 
lemons, pared very thin), one and one-half pound of sugar, juice 
of six lemons. Stir together a few minutes, then strain, and 
lastly add one quart of good rum. Fill the glasses with crushed 
ice when used. It will keep any length of time bottled. 
Fine for hot weather. — Mrs. A.. B. 

Roman Punch. 
Grate the rind of four lemons and two oranges upon two 
pounds of sugar. Squeeze the juice of these, and let it stand 
several hours. Strain them through a sieve. Add one quart 



470 ROMAN PUNCH DEWBICRRY CORDIAL. 

of cliainpagae and the whites of three eggs, beaten very light. 
Freeze, and serve in hock glasses. — Mrs. G. C. Mc P. 

Momam Pwiich. 
To make a gallon. One and a half pint of lemon juice, rinds 
of two lemons grated on sugar, one pint of rum, half a pint of 
brandj, two quarts of water, three pounds of loaf sugar. A 
pint-bottle of champagne is a great improvement. Mix all 
togethei-, and freeze. — Mrs. B. C. 0. 

BiACKBERRY Cordial. 

Two quarts blackberry juice, one pound loaf sugar, four 
grated nutmegs, one-quarter ounce ground cloves, one-quarter 
ounce ground allspice, one-quarter ounce ground cinnamon. 
Simmer all together, for thirty minutes, in a stewpan closely 
covered, to prevent evaporation. Strain through a cloth when 
cold and add a pint of the best French brandy. Soothing and 
efficacious in the summer complaints of children. Dose, one 
teaspoonful poured on a little pounded ice, once or several 
times a day, as the case may require. 

Whortleberry cordial may be made by the same recipe. 
Good old whiskey may be used for either, in the absence of 
brandy. — Mrs. Gen. S. 

Blackberry Cordial. 
Half a bushel of berries, well mashed, one quarter pound of 
allspice (pulverized), two ounces cloves (pulverized). Mix and 
boil slowly till done. Then strain through homespim or flannel, 
and add one pound white sugar to each pint of juice. Boil 
again, and, when cool, add half a gallon best brandy. Good for 
diarrhoea or dysentery. Dose, one teaspoonful or more accord- 
ing to age. — Mrs. S. JB. 

Dewberry Cordial. 
To one quart juice put one pound loaf sugar and boil thesa 



DiiWBEKEY COEDIAi — ClIEEEY COEDIAL. 471 

together fifteen minutes. When cool, add one gill brandy, one 
tablespoonful mace, cloves, and allspice powdered. Bottle and 
cork tightly.— Jfrs. A. D. 

Dewberry Cordial. 

Two quarts strained juice, one pound loaf sugar, four g rated 
nutmegs, one-half ounce pulverized cinnamon, one-quarter ounce 
pulverized cloves, one-quarter ounce pulverized allspice. Simmer 
all together for thirty minutes, in a saucepan tightly covered to 
prevent evaporation. Then strain through a cloth, and, when 
cold, add one pint best French brandy. Bottle and cork tightly. 
—Mrs. J). B. 

Strawberry Cordial. 

One gallon apple brandy, four quarts strawberries. After 
standing twenty-four hours, press them through a cotton bag, 
and add four quarts more of berries. After twenty-four hours 
more, repeat this process. To every quart of the cordial add 
one pound of sugar, or sweeten it with a syrup made as follows : 
two pounds sugar, one pint water, white of one egg whipped a 
little — all boiled together. When cold, add one pint syrup to 
one quart cordial. — Mrs. C. F. C. 

Cherry Cordial. 
Extract the juice from ripe Morella cherries as you would from 
berries. Strain through a cloth, sweeten to your taste, and 
when perfectly clear, boil it. Put a gill of brandy in each 
bottle, cork and seal tightly. Will keep all the summer in a 
cool place. Delicious with iced water. 

Cherry Cordial or Cherry Brandy. 
Take three pounds Morella cherries. Stone half and prick 
tlio rest. Throw into a jar, adding the kernels of half sligJitly 
bruised. Add one pound white sugar. Dover with brandy, and 
lot it stand a month. — Mrs. E. 



472 mint cokdia.l steawbeery vihegab. 

Mint Cordial. 

Pick the mint early in the morning while the dew is on it. 
Do not bruise it. Pour some water over it, and then drain it 
off. Put two handfuk in a pitcher with a quart of French 
brandy. Cover and let it stand till next day. Take out the 
mint carefully, and put in as much more, which take out next 
day. Add fresh mint a third time, taking it out after twenty- 
four hours. Then add three quarts water and one pound loaf 
sugar to the brandy. Mix well, and, when clear, bottle. — Mrs. 
Dr. J. 

Strawberry Acid. 

Put twelve pounds fruit in a pan. Cover it with two quarts 
water, having previously acidulated the water with five ounces 
tartaric acid. Let it remain forty-eight hours. Then strain, 
taking care not to bruise the fruit. To each pint of juice add 
one pound and a half powdered sugar. Stir till dissolved, and 
leave a few days. Then bottle and cork lightly. If a slight 
fermentation takes place, leave the corks out for a few days. 
The whole process to be cold. When put away, the bottles 
must be kept erect. — Mrs. Col. R. 

Royal Strawberry Acid. 
Dissolve two ounces citric acid in one quart spring water, 
which pour over three pounds ripe strawberries. After stand- 
ing twenty-four hours, drain the liquor oflf, and pour it over 
three pounds more of strawberries. Let it stand twenty-four 
hours more, and again drain the liquor ofl". Add to the liquor 
its own weight of sugar. Boil three or four minutes, put in 
cool bottles, cork lightly for three days, then cork tightly and 
seal.— ilfrs. G. 

Strawberry Vinegar. 
Four pounds strawberries, three quarts vinegar. Put fresh, 
ripe berries in a jar, adding to each pound a pint and a half of 
fine, pale white-wine vinegar. Tie a thick paper over them and 



RASPBEEEy VINEGAR — EASPBERRY AOID. 473 

let them remain three or four days. Then drain off the vinegar, 
and pour it over four pounds fresh fruit. After three days drain 
it again, and add it a third time to fresh fruit. After drain- 
ing the last time, add one pound refined sugar to each jiint of 
vinegar. "When nearly dissolved, stir the syrup over a fire till 
it has dissolved (five minutes). Skim it, pour it in a pitcher, 
cover it till next day. Then bottle it, and cork it loosely for 
the first few days. Use a few spoonfuls to a glass of water. — 

Mrs. E. P. a. 

Raspberry Vinegar. 

Puta quart red raspberries in a bowl. Pour over them a quart 
strong apple vinegar. After standing twenty-four hours, strain 
through a bag, and add the liquid to a quart of fresh berries. 
After twenty-four hours more, strain again, and add the liquid 
to a third quart of berries. After straining the last time, 
sweeten liberally with pounded loaf sugar, refine and bottle. 
Blackberry vinegar may be made by the same recipe. — Mrs. 
C.N. 

Raspberry Vinegar. 

Put two quarts ripe, fresh gathered berries in a stone or 
chtoa vessel, and pour over them a quart of vinegar. After 
standing twenty-four hours, strain through a sieve. Pour the 
liquid over two quarts fresh berries, which strain after twenty- 
four hours. Allow one pound loaf sugar to each pint of juice. 
Break up the sugar and let it melt in the liquid. Put the whole 
in a stone jar, cover closely, and set in a kettle of boiling water, 
which must be kept boiling briskly an hour. Take off the scum, 
and, when cold, bottle. — Mies N. L. 

Kaspberry Acid. 

Dissolve fi ve ounces tartaric acid in two quarts water, and 

pour it over twelve pounds berries. Let it stand twenty-four 

Lours, and then strain without bruising the fruit. To each pint 

clear juice add one pound and a half dissolved sugar, and leave 

40 



i74 LEMCN VINEGAK — OEEAM BEEE. 

a few days. If a slight fermentation takes place, deity corking 
a few days. Then cork and seal. — Mrs. G. 

Lemon Vinegar. 
Fill a bottle nearly full of strong cider vinegar. Put in it 
the rind of two or three lemons, peeled very thin. In a week 
or two it will be ready for use, and will not only make a nice 
beverage (very much like lemonade), but will answer for sea- 
soning. — Mrs. M. C. C. 

Lemon or Orange Syrup. 
Put one pound and a half white sugar to each pint of juice. 
Add some peel, and boil ten minutes, then strain and cork. 
It makes a fine beverage, and is useful for flavoring pies and 
puddings. The juice of any acid fruit may be made into a 
syrup by the above recipe. 

Orgeat. 
Make a syrup of one pound sugar to one pint water. Put it 
aside till cold. To five pounds sugar put one gill rose-water 
and two tablespoonfuls essence of bitter almonds. — Mrs. I. H. 

Summer Beer. 

Twelve quarts water, one quart molasses, one quart strong 
hop-tea, one-half pint yeast. Mix well and allow to settle. 
Strain through a coarse cloth, and bottle. It will be good in 
twenty-four hours. — Mrs. E. TV. 

Cream Beer. 
Two ounces tartaric acid, two pounds white sugar, three pints 
water, juice of one lemon. Boil all together. When nearly 
cold, add whites of three eggs, well beaten, with one-half cupful 
flour, and one-half ounce essence wintergreen. Bottle and keep 
in a cool place. Take two tablespoonfuls of this mixture for a 
tumbler of water, in which put one-quarter teaspoonful soda. 
—Mrs. E. 



liEMON BEEK — CRAB OIDER. i'l6 

Lemon Beer. 
Cut two large lemons in slices and put tliem in ajar. Add 
one pound white sugar and one gallon boiling water. Let it 
stand till cool ; then add one-quarter cupful yeast Let it 
stand till it ferments. Bottle in the evening in stone j\igs and 
cork tightly.— ilfjs. G. W. P. 

Ginger Beer. 

One and a half ounce best ground Jamaica ginger, one and a 
half ounce cream of tartar, one pound brown sugar, two sliced 
lemons, four quarts boiling water, one-half pint yeast. Let it fer- 
ment twenty-four hours. In two weeks it will be ready for 
Xise.— Mrs. G.W. P. 

Small Beer. 

Fifteen gallons water, one gallon bran, one and a half gallon 
molasses, one quart corn or oats, one-quarter pound hops. Let 
it boil up once ; take it off and sweeten with the aforementioned 
molasses. Put it in a tub to cool. When a little more than 
milk warm, add one and a half pint yeast. Cover it with a 
blanket till next morning, and then bottle. — Mrs. M. P. 

Mulled Cider. 

To one quart cider take three eggs. Beat them light and 
add sugar according to the acidity of the cider. When light, 
pour the boiling cider on, stirring briskly. Put back on the 
fire and stir till it fairly boils. Then pour off.— J/r. R. H. M. 

Crab Cider. 
To a thirty-gallon cask put one bushel clean picked grapes. 
Fill up with sweet oider, just from the press — crab preferred. 
Draw off in March, and it is fit for use. Add brandy, as much 
as you think best. — Mrs. A. D. 



4.76 THE 8I0K-E00M — ^DIET AND REMEDIES FOE THE SICK, 



THE SICK-TIOOM— DIET AND REMEDIES FOR 
THE SICK. 

First of all, let me say that after a reliable physician has biien 
called in, his directions should be strictly followed, and his in- 
structions should be the law in the sick-room. Have every- 
thing in readiness for his admission immediately after his arrival, 
as his time is valuable and it occasions him both annoyance and 
loss of time to be kept waiting outside of the sick-room, after 
reaching the house of the patient. 

Pure air is of vital importance in the sick-room. Many 
persons exclude fresh air for fear of dampness, but even damp 
air is better than impure. Even in cold weather, there should 
be a free circulation of air. If there are no ventilators, let the 
air circulate from the tops of the windows, rather than admit 
it by opening the door, which is apt to produce a draft. Mean- 
time keep up a good fire ; if practicable, let it be a wood fire, 
but if this be not attainable, have an open grate, with a coal 
fire. The sight of a bright blaze is calculated to cheer the 
patient, while the sight of a dark, close stove is depressing. By 
no means allow a sick person to be in a room warmed by a flue 
or register. 

The old idea of darkening the sick-room is exploded. It 
should be darkened only when the patient wishes to sleep. If 
the eyes are weak, admit the sunshine from a quarter where it 
will not fall upon them. The modern science of physics has 
come to recognize sunshine as one of the most powerful of 
remedial agencies, and cases are not rare in which invalids have 
been restored to health by u.sing sun-baths, and otherwise freely 
enjoying the sunshine. 

it is best to have no odors in the sick-room unless it be bay 
rum, German cologne, or something else especially fancied by 
the sick person. Where there is any unpleasant exhalation, 
it is far better to let it escape by properly ventilating the room, 



THE 8ICK-E00M — DIET AND REMEDIES FOR THE SICK. 477 

than to try to overcome it by the aid of perfumery. In fevers, 
■where there are offensive exhalations from the body, sponging 
with tepid water will help to remove the odor, and will also 
prove soothing to the patient. In winter, expose but a small 
portion of the body at a time, in sponging. Then rub gently 
with the hand or a coarse towel, and there will be no danger of 
the patient's taking cold, even in winter. 

Be careful to keep warm, soft flannels on the sick person in 
winter. In summer, do not keep a pile of bedclothes on the 
patient, even though chilly. It is better to keep up the circu- 
lation by other means, such as rubbing or stimulants. Sctupu- 
lous neatness should be observed about the bed-linen (as well 
as the other appointments of the sick-room). Never use bed- 
quilts or comforts; they are not only heavy, but retain the 
exhalations from the body. Use soft, fleecy blankets instead. 

The nurse should watch her opportunity of having the bed- 
clothes taken into the fresh air and shaken, and the bed made 
up, when the patient has been lifted up and set in an easy-chair 
near the fire. The arrangements about the bed should be 
quickly made, so that the patient may be able to lie down 
again as soon as fatigued. Let such sweeping and dusting as 
are necessary be also done with dispatch, using a dust-pan to 
receive the dust from the carpet. Avoid clouds of dust from 
the carpet, and of ashes from the fireplace. 

The nurse has a very important part to play, as physicians 
say that nursing is of equal importance as medical attendance. 
The nurse should be careful not to wear a dress that rustles, 
nor shoes that creak, and if the patient has any fancy, or any 
aversion connected with colors, she should regard it in her 
dress. Indeed, the patient should be indulged in every fancy 
that is not hurtful. 

The nurse should be prompt in every arrangement. Where 
blisters or poultices are to be used, she should not wait till the 
last moment to prepare them, but should do so before \incover- 
ing the patient to ajiply them, or even broaching the subjecfi 



4:78 THE SICK-EOOM — DIET AND REMEDIES FOK TlliS SICIC. 

If anything painful or distasteful has to be undergone by the 
patient, it should not be discussed beforehand with or before 
the patient ; but when all is in readiness, with cheerful and 
soothing words, let it be done. 

The patient should never be kept waiting for food, medicine, 
bath, or any other requisite. Every arrangement should be 
made beforehand to supply his or her needs in good timo. 
Crushed ice and other needful things should be kept always at 
hand, so the patient may have them at any moment without 
delay. Especially on the approach of night, try to jirovido 
everything needed during the niglit, such as ice, mustard, hot 
water, kindling wood, a large piece of soapstone for the feet, 
as this is more cleanly and retains heat better than other 
things used for the purpose. Other things, such as the nature 
of the sickness may call for, should be thought of aud pro- 
vided before nightfall. 

As the sick are very fastidious, all food for them must be 
prepared in the most delicate manner. Do not bring the 
same article of food several times consecutively, but vary it 
from time to time. Do not let a sick person have any article 
of food forbidden by a physician, as there are many reasons 
known to them only, why dishes fancied by the sick should be 
injurious. 

Avoid whispering, as this excites nervousness and appre- 
hension on the part of the sick. Do not ask in a mournful tone 
of voice how the patient is. Indeed, it is best to ask tlie sick as 
few questions as possible. It is far bettor to watcli tlieir symp- 
toms for yourself than to question them. Examine for yourself if 
their feet are warm, and endeavor to discover their condition 
and their wants, as far as possible, without questions. 

In a case of illness, many well-meaning persons crowd to see 
the patient ; do not admit them into the sick-room, as it is both 
exciting and fatiguing to an ill person to see company, and, 
when in a critical condition, the balance might be disastrously 
turned by the injudicious admission of visitors. Both mind 



AKROWKOOT. 479 

and body must be kept quiet to give the patient a chance for 
recovery. When well enough to listen to conversation, the 
patient sJiould hear none but what is cheerful and entertain- 
ing, never any of an argumentative or otherwise unpleasant 
nature. 

Do not allow the patient to read, as it is too great a tas on 
the sight and brain before convalescence. Suitable books, in 
large print, are a great resource to the patient when arrived at 
this stage, but should be read only in moderation. 

Driving out is a delightful recreation for convalescents, and 
they should be indulged in it as soon as the physician pronoun- 
ces it safe. In winter, tlioy should be carried driving about 
noon, so as to enjoy the sunshine at its warmesi. In summer, 
the cool of the morning or evening is the best time to diive them 
out ; but if the latter time be chosen, be careful to return imme- 
diately after sundown. Make aiTaugemeuts for the patient 
on returning to find the room thoroughly cleaned, aired, and 
adorned with fresh flowers (always so cheering in a sick-room), 
and let the bed be nicely made up and turned down. It is well 
to have some little refreshment awaiting after the drive — a little 
cream or milk toddy, a cup of tea or coffee, oi', if thu weather be 
hot, some cooling draught perhaps would be more acceptable. 
It is well to keep the convalescent cheered, by projecting each 
day some new and pleasant little plan for the morrow. 

Arrowroot. 
Break an egg. Separate the yolk and white. Whip each to 
a stiff froth. Add a tablespoonful of arrowroot and a. little 
water to the yolk. Rub till smooth and free from lumjis. Pour 
slowly into half a pint of boiling water, stirring all the time. 
Let it simmer till jelly-like. Sweeten to the taste and add 
a tablespoonful of French brandy. Stir in the frothed white 
and take hot in wintor. In summer, set first on ice, then stir 
iu the beaten white. Milk may be used instead of water. — 
Mrs. S. T. 



480 



AEEOWBOOT — WINE WHEY. 



Arroioroot. 
Mix one tablespoonful anowroot with enough cold -water to 
make a paste, free from lumps. Pour this slowly into half a 
pint boiling milk and let it simmer till it becomes thick and 
jelly-like. Sweeten to the taste and add a little nutmeg or 
einnamon. — Mrs. M. G. M. W. 

Seamoss Farina. 
One tablespoonful in one quart hot water makes jelly ; one 
tablespoonful in one quart milk makes blanc-mange. Stir 
fifteen minutes, and, while simmering, flavor with vanilla or 
lemon. Suitable for sick persons. — M. L. G. 

Racahaut. 
One pound rice flour, one pound chocolate, grated fine, two 
tablespoonfuls arrowroot. From a half-pound to a pound of 
sugar. Mix well together and put in a close jar. To one 
quart milk, rub in four dessertspoonfuls of the above mixture. 
Give it a boil up and season with vanilla. — Mrs. J". H. T. 

Ckackkd Wheat. 
Soak the wheat in cold water all night. Pour off this water 
in the morning. Pour boiling water then over the wheat and 
boil it about half an hour, adding salt and butter. Eat with 
cream. — Mrs. A. M. 

Breakfast for an Invalid. 
Bread twelve hours old, an egg and black tea. — Mrs. A. 

Food for a Sick Infant. 
Gelatine two inches square, milk half a pint, water half a 
pint, cream one-half to one gill, arrowroot a teaspoonful. Sweet- 
en to the taste. — Mrs. J. D. 

Wine Whey. 
Put half pint milk over the fire, and, as soon as it begins to 



MILK PUNCH ESSENCIO OF OIIIOKEN. 4S1 

boil, pour slowly into it a wine-glass of sherry wine, mixed with 
a teaspoonful white sugar. Grate into it a little nutmeg, and 
as soon as it comes to a boil again, take it off the fire. "When 
cool, strain for use. — Mrs. JR. C. M. W. 

Milk Punch. 

Pour two tablespoonfuls good brandy into six tablespoonfuls 

milk. Add two teaspoonful s ground loaf sugar and a little 

grated nutmeg. An adult may take a tablespoonfvil of tliis 

every two or three hours, but chiklren must take less. — Jifrs. R. 

0. M. W. 

Beep Essence. 
Cut one pound beef in small bits, sprinkle with a very little 
salt, tie up in a close stone jar, and set in boiling water. Boil 
it hard an hour or niore, then strain it. Chicken may be pre- 
pared the same way. Nice for the sick. — Mrs. Col. TV. 

Beef-Tea. 
Take half a pound fresh beef for every pint of beef-tea 
required. Carefully remove all fat, sinew, veins, and bone from 
the beef. Cut it in pieces under an inch square and let it soak 
twelve hours in one-third of the water required to be made into 
tea. Then take it out and let it simmer three hours in the re- 
maining two- thirds of the water, the quantity lost by evapora- 
tion being replaced from time to time. The boiling liquor is 
then to be poured on the cold liquor in which the meat was 
soaked. The solid meat is to be dried, pounded in a mortar, 
and minced so as to cut up all strings in it, and mixed with the 
liquid. When the beef-tea is made daily, it is convenient to 
use one day's boiled meat for the next day's tea, as thus it has 
time to dry and is more easily pounded. Avoid having it 
sticky and too much jellied, when cold. 

Essence op Chicken. 
In a case of extreme sickness, when it is important that what 
little nourishment the patient can take should be highly con- 



4:82 



CHICKEN JJSLLY — DEY TOAST. 



densed, the following is an excellent mode for concentrating, in 
a small compass, all the nutritive properties of a chicken. 

After picking the chicken, sprinkle a little salt over it and 
cut it in pieces, as if for frying. Put the pieces in a small 
glass jar (or wide-mouthed bottle), stop it tightly, and put it iu 
a pot of cold water, gradually heating the latter till it boils. 
Let the jar of chicken remain in the water till the juices are 
well extracted, then pour them off for the patient. — Mrs. M 
C. G. 

Chicken Jelly. 

Take a large chicken, cut the flesh from its bones, break the 
bones, soak an hour in weak salt and water to extract the blood. 
Put on in a stewpan with three pints of cold water. Simmur 
till reduced to less than half its original quantity. Sprinkle 
a little salt on it, and strain in a bowl. Keep on ice. — Mrs. 
S. T. 

A NouKisHiNG Way to Pkepaue Chicken, Squirrel, or 
Beef for the Sick. 
Put ill a clean, glaznd jar or inner saucepan. Set this in 
another vessel of boiling water. Cover closely, and keep boil- 
ing for hours. Season the juice thus extracted with a little 
salt, stir in a teaspoonful of fresh milk, and give to the patient. 
—Mrs. T. 

Panada. 

Lay six nice crackers in a bowl. Sprinkle over them pow- 
dered sugar and a ])inoh of salt, adding a very small piece of fresh 
butter. Pour boiling water over the crackers, and let them 
remain near the fire half an hour. Then add a teaspoonful of 
good French brandy, or a tablespoonful of Madeira wine, and a 
little grated nutmeg. — Mrs. T. 

Dry Toast. 
Slice thin, some nice, white bread, perfectly sweet. Toast a 
light brown, and butter with fresh butter. — Mrs. S. T. 



scalded toast — aromatic vinegae. 488 

Scalded Toast. 

Prepare and toast the bread as above directed. Then lay in 
a covered dish and pour boiling water over it. Turn to one 
side, and drain out the water. Then put fresh butter on each 
shoe, with a small pinch of salt. Serve in a covered dish. — 
Mrs. S. T. 

Milk Toast. 

Slice the bread thin, toast a light brown, butter each side, 
and sprinkle with a little salt. Put in a covered dish, and 
pour over it boiling miUc. — Mrs. S. T. 

Carolina Small Hominy. 

Wash and pick. Drain, and soak an hour in cold water. 

Drain again, and put in a saucepan, with one pint boiling water 

to one pint hominy. Boil till dry like rice. Eat with cream, 

butter and salt, or with sugar, butter and nutmeg. — Mrs. S. T. 

Dishes Suitable for the Sick 
May be found in various parts of this work, such as rice pud- 
ding, baked custard, and various preparations of tapioca, sago, 
and arrowroot. Grapes are valuable in fever, and also good for 
chronic sore-throat. — Mrs. S. T. 

Thieves' Vinegar. 
A handful of sage and the same of mint, tansy, rue, rose- 
mary, lavender, and thyme ; one ounce of camphor. Put in a 
gallon demijolin, and fill with good vinegar. Set in the sun 
two weeks with a piece of leather over the mouth, then stop 
tightly. —Mrs. 2>. B. 

Aromatio Vinegar. 

Acetic acid (concentrated), eight ounces ; oil of lavender 

(Eng.), two drachms ; oil of rosemary, one drachm ; oil of cloves, 

one drachm ; gum camphor, one ounce. Dissolve the camphor 

(bruised) in the acid, then add perfumes. After standing p 



484 SODA MINT MUSTARD. 

few days, with occasional shaking, strain, and it is ready foi 
use.— i?r. E. A. C. 

Soda Mint. 
Bioarb. soda (Eng.), one drachm; pure water, three ounces- 
spearmint water, four ounces ; glycerine, one ounce ; ar. spts. 
ammonia, thirty-two drops. Mix and filter. Dose, from twenty 
drops to a tablespoonful, according to age. — Dr. E. A. (J. 

Lime-Water. 
This is easily prepared, and a bottle should alwaj's be kept 
ready for use. It is an antidote to many poisons and a valua- 
ble i-emedy in a sick-room. Put some pieces of unslaoked lime 
in a bottle, fill up with cold water, keep it corked and in a cool, 
dark place. It does not matter about the quantity of lime, as 
the water will not dissolve more than a certain quantity. It is 
ready for use in a few minutes, and the clear lime-water can be 
poured oflf as needed. When all the water is used, fill up again, 
which may be done several times before it is necessary to use 
fresh lime. — Mrs. T. 

Tarrant's Effervescent Seltzer Aperient 
Is an invaluable remedy for sick headache, nausea, constipation, 
and many of the attendant evils of dyspepsia. Directions 
accompany each bottle. Colic and other violent pains of the 
stomach are sometimes instantly relieved by adding to the dose 
of Seltzer Aperient a teaspoonful of Brown's Jamaica Ginger. 

Brown's Jamaica Ginger 
xs not only an invaluable remedy, but a refreshing and delight- 
ful drink may be made from it in summer, when iced lemonade 
would be unsafe and iced juleps, etc., would be too heating for 
one suffering from over-fatigue. Fill a goblet with crushed ice, 
add two tea-poonfuls of powdered sugar and one of Jamaica gin- 
ger. Fill up with water, stir and drink. — Mrs. S. T. 

Mustard. 
It is not safe to pass a day without mustard in the house, so 



MUSTAEE LEAVES OE PLA8TEES FOE SOEE-THEOAT. 48S 

valuable ar() its medicinal properties. When a large plaster is 
wanted, put into a plate or bowl two tablespoonfuls ground 
mustard. Wet it with cold water and stir with a spoon or knife 
till a smooth paste. Lay on an inverted tea-board a piece of 
newspaper twice the size of the plaster wanted. On one-half 
spread evenly and thinly the mustard. Fold over the other half 
and fold over the edges as if to hem a piece of cloth, to prevent 
the mustard from getting on the skin or clothing. In wintc r, 
warm slightly before applying. Keep it on an adult fifteen 
minutes ; on a child, half that time. In this way, painful blis- 
ters will always be avoided. If the pain is in the chest or stom- 
ach, place the same plaster on the back just opposite, and let 
it remain on twenty minutes the second time. Colman's mus- 
tard is considered the best by many persons. 

Mustard Leaves or Plasters. 
It is well in travelling to carry a package of these plasters, in 
case of sudden sickness. It is important also to keep them at 
home, as sometimes they are needed suddenly in the night, and 
even one moment gained is important in great emergencies. 
Those maniifactured by Seabury & Johnson, N. Y., are con- 
sidered excellent and superior to the foreign article. 

Compound Syrup of Horehound and tar 
Is excellent for coughs, colds, bronchitis, and diseases of the 
chest. Manufactured by Faulkner & Craighill, Lynchburg, Va. 

For Sore-Throat. 
Carbolic acid crystals, pure, half a drachm ; tincture kinOj one 
drachm ; chlorate potash, two drachms ; simple syrup, half an 
ounce. Water sufficient to make an eight-ounce mixture. Gar- 
gle the throat every few hours. — Dr. T. L. W. 

For Sore-Throat. 
Rub the throat well with camphorated oil, and gargle fre- 
quently with a strong solution chlorate of potash. — Mrs. S. T 



4:86 FOR SORB-THEOAT — THE OCEAN SALT. 

For Sore- Throat. 
Carbolic acid, fifteen grains ; chlorate potash, thirty grains J 
rose-water, one and a half ounces ; glycerine, one-half ounce. 
Use as a gaigle, three or four times daily.— i!/r. E. G. 

A Cure for Epilepsy (one I have knovm to succeed in many 

cases). 
Procure the fresh root of a white peony. Scrape and cut in 
pieces an inch square. Eat one thiee times a day, never taking 
any food after four p.m. Use a month, stop two weeks and 
begin again. The best way to keep the root is to string it on a 
cord. The red peony will do, if you cannot get the white. 
Mrs. M. a 

Cube for Cramp. 

Wet a cloth in spirits turpentine and lay it over the place 
where the pain is felt. If the pain moves, move the cloth. 
Take five drops spirits turpentine at a time on white sugar till 
relieved. — Mrs. H. 

Fob Cramp-Colic, or Pain Resulting from Disordered 

Bowels. 
One teaspoonful paregoric, one teaspoonful Jamaica ginger, 
one teaspoonful spirits camphor, one-half teaspoonful carbonate 
soda, two tablespoonfuls water, two tablespoonfuls whiskej. 
This is for one dose. If it does not relieve in an hour, repeat. 
—Dr. J-. T. W. 

For Chilblains. 

Take common furniture glue from the pot, spread it on 
a linen rag or piece of brown paper, and apply hot to the chil- 
blain, letting it remain till the glue wears off. 

For Fbesh Cuts. 
Varnish them with common furniture varnish. This remedy 
has been known to prove very efficacious. — Mr. ~W. 

The Ocean Salt 
Is now much used by those who cannot go to the seaside 



BEEA.ST SALVE — PEEVENTIVE OF SOAELET FEVEE. 487 

Seventy-five cents for half a bushel. Dissolve a large handful 
in a pitcher of water. Use a sponge to rub the flesh. — Mrs. A. 

Breast Salve. 

Linseed oil (raw), four ounces; mutton tallow, four ounces ; 
yellow wax, two ounces; Burgundy pitch, one ounce; Venice 
turpentine, one ounce ; oil lavender, one-half ounce ; rosin, ouu- 
half ounce. 

Melt together and strain through flannel. Spread lightly on 
a soft linen rag, apply to the breast, and the relief is almost in- 
stantaneous. — Dr. E. A. G. 

An Excellent Wash fob Inflamed Eyes. 
Sulph. zinc, two grains ; wine of opium, ten drops ; distilled 
water, one ounce. Mix. Drop two or three drops in the outer 
corner of the eye several times a day. — Dr. JE. A. G. 

Eye-Water for Weak Eyes. 
One teaspoonful laudanum, two teaspoonfuls Madeira wine, 
twelve teaspoonfuls rose-water. — Mrs. E. I. 

For Earache. 

Equal parts of laudanum and tincture of arnica. Mix, satur- 
ate a piec of wool in the mixture, and insert in the ear. — Dr. 
E. A. G. 

Toothache Drops. {Sva-b cure.) 

Morphia, six grains ; half on ounce each of tincture aconite 
root, chloroform, laudanum, creosote, oil cloves, cajuput. Add 
as much gum camphor as the chloroform will dissolve. Satu- 
rate with the above mixture a piece of wool and pixt it in the 
hollow tooth, being certain that the cavity is cleaned out. — Dr. 

E. A. G. 

Preventive op Scarlet Fever. 

Extract belladonna (pure), three grains ; cinnamon-water, one 
drachm ; distilled water, seven drachms. Mix, label poison, and 
give the child for a dose as many drops as the years of his age. 
-Dr.E.A. G. 



488 foe peeventing soaelet fevjse buens and soalds. 

For Preventing Scarlet Fever. 
Extract belladonna, six grains ; cinnamon-water, one draclnn ; 
white sugar, two drachms ; alcohol, two drachms ; puro water, 
thirteen drachms. Mix thoroughly and label belladonna,/)ois(w. 
Dose, one drop for each year of the child's age, repeated twice 
aday.— 2)r. E. A. G. 

To Relieve "Prickly Heat." 
Sulphate of copper, grains ten ; pure water, f | i. Mix sol. 
A.pply with camel-hair brush daily or oftener. — Dr. E. A. G. 

For Snake Bites. 
Apply ammonia or hartshorn immediately to the bite, and 
swallow ten drops, dissolved in a wine-glass of water. Said to 
be a certain remedy. — Mrs. T. 

Remedy for Chicken Cholera. 
Dip a small feather or brush into tincture of iodine, hold the 
chicken's mouth open, and mop the inside of the throat 
thoroughly with the iodine. This treatment has proved suc- 
cessful whenever tried. — Mrs. N. G. 

Mashed Finger. 
Bind up with old linen and keep constantly wet with cold 
water. If there is much pain, add laudanum or tincture of 
arnica. If discoloration and swelling remain, after the pain 
subsides, use stimulating liniment to encourage a flow of pure 
blood and the washing away of the injured blood. 

Burns and Scalds. 
If the burn or scald is serious, send immediately for a physi- 
cian. In the meantime, cover with wet linen cloths, pouring on 
more water without removing them, till the pain is allewatee^ 
when pure hog's lard may be applied, which is one of the best 
and most easily procured dressings. If the scald or bum is 
trifling, this is all that is needed. Lather of soap from the shav- 



LINrMENT FOE EECENT BURNS — CHILL PILIS. 4S0 

bg-cup applied by the brush often produces relief. White of egg 
applied iu the same way is a simple and useful dressing. Never 
tamper with a bad burn. This requires the skilful treatment of 
a physician. If the shock is great, and there is no reaction, ad- 
minister frequently^ aromatic spirits of ammonia or a little 
brandy and water till the patient rallies. 

Liniment for Recent Bukns and Scalds. 
Take equal parts of lime-water, linseed oil, and laudanum. 
Mix and apply on a soft linen rag. Some add about one-quarter 
quantity commercial sol. carbolic acid. — Dr. E. A. C. 

Compound Chalk Mixture for Infants and Young 

Children. 

Prepared chalk, powdered white sugar, gum arable, two 

drachms each. Tincture kino, paregoric, each six drachms. 

Lime-water, one ounce; peppermint water, sufficient for four 

ounces. 

Mix thoroughly and shake well before administering. Dose, 
from half to a teaspoonful, according to age and urgency of the 
case. — Br. E. A. (1. 

A Simple Remedy for Dysentery. 
Black or green tea steeped in boiling water and sweetened 
with loaf sugar. — Mrs. H. C. M. W. 

For Diarrhcea. 
Take equal parts of laudanum, tincture capsicum, tincture 
camphor, and aromatic syrup rhubarb. Mix. Dose, from half 
to a teaspoonful, in water, when needed. — Dr. E. A. G. 

Chill Pills. 
Sulph. quinine, two drachms; arsenious acid, one grain; 
strychnia, one grain ; Prussian blue, twenty grains ; powdcrttl 
capsicum, one drachm. Mix, and make sixty pills. Take one 
pill three times a day. — Dr. E. A. O. 
21* 



ii)0 cube for cold in the head cough remedies. 

Cure for Cold in the Head. 
Muriate of morphia, two grains ; powdered gum avabic, two 
drachms ; sub. nit. bismuth, six drachms. 
Mix and snuff frequently. — Dr. E. A. G. 

Prompt Remedy for Cold in the Head. 
Sulph. quinine, twenty-four grains ; cayenne pepper, five 
gi-ains. Make twelve pills, and take one every three hours. — 

Mr. E. a 

Cure for Dyspepsia. 
Best Turkish rhubarb, one ounce ; gentian root, bruised, one- 
half ounce ; columbo, one-half ounce ; orange peel, one-half 
ounce ; fennel seed, one-half ounce ; best French brandy, one 
qiiart. This will bear filling up several times. 

For "Whooping-Cough. 
Drop a fresh, unbroken egg in lemon juice. When dissolved, 
sweeten and give a spoonful occasionally when the cough comes 
on. — Mrs. E. I. 

An Excellent Remedy for Coughs. 

Boil three fresh lemons till quite soft. Then slice them on 
a pound of brown sugar. Stew them togetlier fifteen or twenty 
minutes, or till they form a rich .syrup. When cool, add one 
tablespoonful oil of sweet almonds. 

Take one spoonful or more when the cough is troublesome. — 
N. A. L. 

Remedy for Coughs. 

Boil one ounce licorice root in one-half pint of water, till it 
is reduced one-half. Then add one ounce gum arable and one 
ounce loaf sugar. Take a teaspoonful every few hours. — N. 

A.L. 

Remedy for Coufihs. 

Boil three lemons for fifteen minutes. Slice them thin while 
hot over one pound of loaf sugar. Put on the fire in a porce- 



EEMEDY FOE ASTHMA, S0EE-7.'HK0AT, OE A COUGH. 491 

Iain-lined saucepan and stew till the syrup is quite thick. 
After taking it from the fire, add one tablespoonful of oil of 
sweet almonds. Stir till thoroughly mixed and cool. If more 
than a small quantity is desired, double the above proportions. 
-Mrs. J. D. L. 



Rkmedy for Asthma, Soke-Throat, ok a Cough. 
Out up two or three bulbs of Indian turnip, put the pieces in 
a quart bottle, which fill up with good whiskey. Dose, a table- 
spoonful, three or four times a day. It is especially desirable 
to take it just after rising and just before going to bed. Won- 
derful cures of asthma have been efiected by this remedy, and 
many persons living near the writer have tested its efficacy. 
The bottle will bear refilling with whiskey several times. 
Great care must be taken in procuring the genuine Indian tur- 
nip for this preparation, as there is a poisonous plant much 
resembling it. — Mrs. M. L. 

IlEMEDy foe Poison Oak. 
Make a strong decoction of the leaves or bark of the common 
willow. Bathe the parts affected frequently with this decoc- 
tion, and it will be found a very efficacious remedy. — Gre,n. M. 

Remedy for Poison Oak. 
Forty grains caustic potash to five ounces of water. Apply 
to the eruption with a small mop, made by tying a soft linen 
rag to a stick. Often a speedy cure. — Mrs. S. T. 

Cuke for Jaundice. 
Fill a quart bottle a third full of chipped inner cherrj bark. 
Add a large teaspoonful soda, and fill the bottle with whiskey 
or brandy. Take as large a dose three times a day as the system 
will tolerate. If it affects the head unpleasantly, lessen the 
quantity of bark. It will be fit for use in a few hours. — Dr. B. 



492 cube for bone felon good treatment fob ceoctp. 

Cuke toe Bone Felon. 
One ounce assafietida in one pint vinegar, as hot as the hand 
can bear. Keep it hot by placing the vessel over the top of a 
teakettle. Use it freqxiently through the day, an hour at a 
time. A painful but effective remedy. — Mrs. J". D. P. 

FoK Treating Corns. 
Apply night and morning with a bi-ush one or two drops of 
protoxide of iron for two weeks. — Mrs. W. 

Cure for Coens between the Toes. 
Wet them several times a day with hartshorn, and in a short 
time they will disappear. — JMrs. Wl B. 

Carrot Salve for Blisters. 
Scrape two carrots and stew in two tablespoonfuls hog's lard. 
Add two plantain leaves. When the carrots are well done, 
strain. — Mrs. E. I. 

Liniment for Rheumatism. 
Half an ounce gum camphor, half an ounce saltpetre, half an 
ounce spirits ammonia, half a pint alcohol. Old-fashioned lini- 
ment, good for man or beast. — Mrs. T. 

A Good Liniment. 
One egg beaten light, half a pint spirits turpentine, half a 
pint good apple vinegar. Shake well before using. Good for 
sprains, outs, or bruises. — Mrs. S. 

A Good Treatment for Croup. 
When the child is taken with a hoarse, tight cough, give it 
immediately from ten drops to half a teaspoon of hive or croup 
syrup, or if you have not these, use ipecac syrup, though this 
is less rapid in its effects. Put a mustard plaster on the wind- 
pipe, and let it redden the skin, but not blister. Put the feet in 
mustard-water as hot as they can bear it. Then wipe them dry 



TO TAKE QUININE WITHOUT TASTIN3 IT. 493 

and keep them covered warm. A child from three to six years 
old will require from ten drops to half a teaspoon of the syrup 
every half-hour till relieved. From six to twelve, give from a 
half teaspoon to a full teaspoon, accorcUng to the age of the 
patient. Croup requires very prompt treatment. If home 
treatment does not relieve, send immediately for a physician. — 
Mrs. P. W. 

To Take Quinine without Tasting it. 
Put a little of the mucilage from slippery elm in a teaspoon. 
Drop the quinine on it, and put some mucilage on top. This 
will make the quinine slip down the throat withoiit leaving 
any taste. — Mrs. J. A. S. 

DiiEssiNG FOR Blisters. 
The first dressing should be of collard leaves, prepared thus . 
With a sharp knife carefully pare smooth all the stalk and vein- 
ing. Then scald and sqiieeze each one to a pleasant moisture, 
keeping them blood-warm until applied. Second dressing — 
pure lard or mutton suet spread evenly and thinly on a soft 
linen rag. — Mrs. S. T. 

An Ex(!Ellent and Simple Salve for Boils. 
Melt together, in equal parts, the white rosin that exudes from 
the common pine tree and mutton suet. This makes a good 
plaster for the boil, both before and after it breaks. — Mrs. S. T. 

For Boils. 
Slippery elm flour wet with cold water, and put in a soft 
muslin bag, and applied to the boil till the inflammation sub- 
sides, is an admirable remedy. Then apply carbolic salve spread 
on a linen rag, which is a good dressing for the boil, both before 
and after it breaks. — Mrs. S. T. 

To Extinguish the Flames when the Clothing has taken 

Fire. 
First, throw the person on the grounf^ to prevent the upward 



494 POE WEAK BACK POISONS AND ANTIDO'raS. 

flames from being inhaled. Then quickly roll the person in a 
carpet hearth-rug or blanket ; if neither is at hand, use any 
woollen garment, such as a coat, overcoat, or cloak. Keep the 
blaze as much as possible from the face, wrapping the woollen 
garment first around the neck and shoulders. Jumping into 
bed and covering up with the bedclothes is also a good plan. 

For Weak Back. 
Two tablespoonfuls finely powdered rosin, four tablespoonfuls 
white sugar, whites of two eggs, one quart best whiskey. Dose, 
a tablespoonful three times a day, either before or after 
meals. Excellent also for colds or weak lungs; will stop an ir- 
ritating cough. Taken half a teaspoonful at a time. — Mrs. G. 

Poisons and Antidotes. 

Acids — Sulphuric, Nitric, Muriatic, Pliosphoric, Oxalic, 
Citric, Tartaric, Acetic. — Give freely of magnesia or soap- 
water (half an ounce white soap to two quarts tepid water). 
Also very weak solutions of carbonate of soda or potassa may 
be used. Give demulcent drinks and milk-baths, cataplasms, 
antiphlogistics. Avoid lime-water. 

Alkalies — Caustic, Potassa, Soda, lAme, Strontia, Paryta, 
amd their Ca/rbonates. — Give diluted vinegar in abundance, four 
ounces vinegar to one quart water. Citric or tartaric lemon- 
ade, whites of eggs with tepid water, milk, sweet-oil. Baths, 
lotions, fomentations. 

Arsenic. — Prompt emetic. Give freely of hydrated peroxide 
of iron; dose, half an ounce, frequently repeated. If this is 
not at hand, give magnesia in large quantities of tepid water. 
Demulcent drinks, baths, and counter-irritants over the stomach 
to relieve spasms. 

Carbolic Acid. — Saccharated lime in water; also demulcent 
drinks. 

CMoral. — Keep the patient warm in bed, with hot blankets 
and hot water bottles, the bottles also to be applied over the 



POISONS AND ANTIDOTES. 4:9b 

heart. A warm bath may be of advantage. If respiration 
threatens to fail, maintain it artificially, and apply galvanic 
b« ttery (induced current), one pole over pit of stomach and the 
other over lower cervical vertebrtc. 

GMoroform. — Draw out the tongue, if retracted. Give plenty 
of air. Ea,ise the body and lower the head, till the body is 
almost inverted. Maintain artificial respiration. Use the gal- 
vanic battery as above directed. 

Copper, Salts of — Cause vomiting, and then give freely of 
whites of eggs and water, demulcent drinks, soothing clysters, 
lotions, fomentations. Avoid vinegar. 

Corrosive Sublimate. — First, cause vomiting, then give 
whites of eggs in water, four whites to one quart water. Milk, 
demulcent drinks, and gargles. 

Gases. — The antidote for chlorine is to inhale ammonia. 
Asphyxia by other gases, treated by cold applications to the 
head, plenty of air, artificial respiration. 

Glass, in powder. — Farina or light food in abundance. Then 
an emetic, then milk and demulcent drinks. 

Iodine. — Starch-water containing albumen in large quantities, 
or starch- water alone. 

Lead, Salts of. — ^ White of eggs, epsom salts, or sulphuric 
acid lemonade. (One drachm diluted acid to a quart sweetened 
water. ) 

Nitrate of Silver (lunar caustic). — Give salt water freely. 

Opium and Salts of Morpliine. — Cause free vomiting by 
sulphate of zinc, sulphate of copper, and tartar emetic, and use 
the stomach-pump. Then administer one-sixteenth grain atro- 
pine, hypodermically, and repeat with caution till the pupils 
dilate. Also give strong coffee or tea. Keep the patient 
awake. If depression and drowsiness are extreme, bleeding 
may do the patient good. 

Phosphorus. — Emetic, then water with whites of eggs, mag- 
nesia in suspension, milk. Avoid oils. 

Prussia Acid. — Afi'usions of wa':er over the cervical verte 



496 HOUSE-CLEANING. 

hi-M Cause the gas from chlorine water to be inhaled. Give 
from twenty to forty drops of Labbaraque's solution largely 
diluted, also coffee. 

Strychnine. — Cause vomiting. Give ether or chloroform by 
inhalation, and chloral internally. Insufflate the lungs. 

Tartar Emetic. — If there is vomiting, favor it by giving 
whites of eggs with water in large quantities, then give infu- 
sion of gall or oak bark. If vomiting is not free, use the 
stomach-pump. 

Venomous Bites, Serpents. — Apply a moderately tight liga^ 
hire above the bite. Wash the wound freely with warm water 
to encourage bleeding, then caviterize thoroughly. Afterwards 
apply lint dipped in equal parts of olive-oil and spirits harts- 
horn. Internally give freely of alcoholic stimulants, with liquid 
ammonia, largely diluted. 

Mabid Dogs. — Apply ligature as above described, wash the 
wound thoroughly with warm water, and cauterize immediately 
with nitric acid or lunar caustic, leaving no part of the wound 
untouched. 



HOUSE-CLEANING. 

Do not clean but one room at a time, as it is a bad plan to 
have the whole house in confusion at once. It is best to com- 
mence with the attic. 

Before beginning on your spring cleaning, remove the cur- 
tains, all the movable furniture, and the carpets. With a 
broom and dust-pan lemove all dust from the floor. Then 
with a wall-brush thoroughly sweep and dust the ceiling and 
side-walls, window and door frames, pictures and chandeliers. 
Then go over the floor again, removing the dust that has fallen 
from the ceiling and walls. Then proceed to wash all the paint 
in the room. If it be white paint, use whiting or such other 
preparations as are recommended for the purpose in the siibse- 



HOTJSE-OLEANING. 497 

quent pages. If it be varnished, or in imitation of oak or wal 
nut, wipe with a cloth dipped in milk-warm water. If the 
wood work in the room be of unvarnished walnut or oak, wipe 
it off first, and then oil it, rubbing in the oil well. 

Then with a soft flannel rag and a cake of sapolio clean every 
piece of marble in the room. Next wipe the mirrors carefully 
with a flannel rag, wrung out of warm water and dipped in a 
little whiting, or you may rub a little silver soap on the rag. 
The gilding must be merely dusted, as the least dampness or a 
drop of water will injure it. 

The windows (sash and all) must then be washed in soap 
and water, with a common brush such as is used for washing 
paint. A little soda dissolved in the water will improve the 
appearance of the windows. It is unnecessary to use such a 
quantity of soap and water as to splash everything around. 
After being washed, the windows should be polished with news- 
papers. Except in a general house-cleaning, windows may be 
cleaned by the directions given above for mirrors. 

The metal about the door-knobs, tongs, etc., may be cleaned 
by electro-silicon, and the grates may be varnished with the 
black vai-nish kept for the purpose by dealers in grates, stove.s, 
etc. Every chair and article of furniture should be carefully 
cleaned before being brought back into the room, and linen 
covers should be put on the chairs. If yoii are going to put 
down matting, do so before bringing back the first article of 
furniture. Some housekeepers, however, allow their matting 
to remain during the winter under their carpets. Spots on 
matting may be removed by being scoured with a cloth, dipped 
first in hot water and then in salt. This, however, will cause 
wet spots to appear on it in damp weather. After the spots 
are removed, scrub the matting with dry corn-meal and a coarse 
cloth. Sweep it over several times, till all the meal is removed. 

For persons who do not use matting in summer, a recipe is 
given later for beautifully coloring the floor with boiled linseed 
oil and burnt sienna. Where different woods are used alter 

42 



i08 WHITEWASH FOE OUTDOOR USE. 

nately in the floor, this oil answers better than re varnishing the 
floor every spring. 

As soon as the carpets are taken up, have them nicely 
shaken, swept, and brushed on both sides. Every spot should 
be carefully washed and wiped dry. The carpets should then 
be rolled up smoothly, with tobacco sprinkled between the 
folds, sewed up in coarse linen cloths, and put away till autumn. 
A cedar closet is an excellent place to keep carpets as well as 
other woollens. If you have no cedar closet, however, a cedar 
chest will serve to protect your woollen clothes against moths, 
and it is better to preserve them in this way than to sprinkle 
them with tobacco, which imparts an unpleasant scent to them. 

Whitewash fok Outdoor Use. 

Take good quick-lime in lumps. Slack it with hot water, and 
while slacking add to what will make a pailful one pound 
tallow or other grease, free from dirt. It may be rancid, smoked, 
or otherwise unfit for kitchen use. 

When the violent slacking is over, stir thoroughly. All the 
water should be added before the slacking ceases, and the mix- 
ing together should be thorough. Do not dilute with cold 
water. If well made, it will be veiy smooth and but little 
affected by rain, — Mrs. E. 

Indoor Whitewashing. 
We have recently seen recommended in a journal a fine 
and brilliant whitewash preparation of chalk, called " Paris 
White," and said to be admirable for whitewashing walls. It sells 
in paint stores at three cents per pound, retail. For every sixteen 
pounds Paris White, get half a pound white transparent glue. 
Cover the glue with cold water at night, and in the morning 
heat it, without scorching, till dissolved. Stir in the Pari.s 
White with hot water to give it a milky consistency. Then add 
and mix well the glue. Apply with a common lime whitewash 
brush. A single coating will do, except on very dingy walls. 
Almost as brilliant as " Zinc White."— Jfrs. 5. T. 



TO OIL FLOOKS TO WASH OAKPETS. 499 

To Oil Floors. 
To one gallon, boiled linseed oil add half a pound burni 
sienna. Thu druggist who sells these articles will mix them. 
If economy is necessary, instead of employing a painter to put 
it on, dip a large woollen rag into the mixture, and with this 
wipe over the floor. — Mrs. S. T. 

To Dye Floors a Pretty Color. 

M ake a strong decoction of the inside bark of red oak. Set 
it a dark color with copperas. 

Have the floors well swept and cleaned of spots. Then with 
a cloth rub the dye in well, taking care to wipe up and down 
the floor, so as to prevent streaking. 

Let it dry, then wipe over with weak lye, and as soon as 
this dries ofi", rub with a waxed brush. — Mrs. Dr. P. C. 

To Clean Paint. 
Wring out a clean flannel, take up as much powdered 
■vhiting as will adhere to it, then rub the paint. Wash oil' 
with clean watei- and rub dry with a soft cloth, and it will look 
new. Not for paint in imitation of oak. — Mrs. JR. 

To Wash Oil-Oloth. 
Wash oil-cloths with salt water ; say, one pint salt dissolveil 
in a pailful water. When dry wipe over with a little milk and 
water.- -Mrs. S. D. 

To Wash OU- Cloth. 
Sweep it well. Wash with cold water, using a brush. Then 
wash with milk and wipe dry. Never use hot water. — Mrs. Ji. 

To Wash Carpets. 
Shake, beat, and sweep well. Tack flrmly on the floor. Mix 
three quarts soft, cold water with one quart beef's gall. Wash 
wich a flannel, rub off with a clean flannel, immediately aftei 
[Hitting it on each strip of carpet. — Mrs. H. 



500 TO EEMOViJ INK FEOM CARPETS. 

Carpets sliould be washed in spots, with a brush or flannel, 
one tablespoonful ox-gall in one or two quarts water. — Mrs. A. 

To Remove Ink from Carpets. 

Take up the ink with a spoon. Pour cold water on the 
stained spot, take up the water with a spoon, and repeat this 
process frequently. Then rub on a little oxalic acid and wash 
off immediately with cold water. Then wet with hartshorn. — 
Mrs. B. 

To Clean Marble Slabs, etc. 

Sal soda, four ounces ; powdered pumice-stone, two ounces ; 
prepared chalk, two ounces. Mix well, add sufficient water, rub 
well on the marble, and then wash with soap and water. — Dr. 
JE. A. G. 

Sapolio, rubbed on a flannel rag which has just been dipped 
in hot water and squeezed, is also good for cleaning marble. — 
Mrs. S. T. 

To Remove Grease from Wall Paper. 
Dip a flannel in spirits of wine and go carefully over the 
soiled places once or twice. — Mrs. R. 

To Clean Furniture. 
One-half pint linseed oil, one half pint vinegar, one-half pint 
turpentine. Apply with a flannel rag, and then rub with a dry 
flannel.— i!fr«. 11. S. 

To Clean Varnished Furniture, Mahogany Especially. 
Wash the piece of furniture with warm water and soap, and 
then rub dry ; afterwards take a flannel rag, and rub with the 
following mixture : equal proportions of vinegar, sweet-oil, and 
spii'its of turpentine, in a bottle which must be shaken befori 
using. — Mrs. McG. 

An Excellent Furniture Polish. 
Alcohol, three ounces ; linseed oil, boiled, two ounces 



FURNITURE POLISH — TO GLI5AN BRASSES, HTC. 501. 

oxalic acid, one drachm ; gum shellac, two drachms ; gum ben- 
zoin, two drachms ; rosin, two drachms. Dissolve the gums in 
the alcohol, and then add oil and oxalic acid. Apply with a 
woollen cloth. — Dr. E. A. C. 

Furnitniure Polish. 
One pint of alcohol, one pint of spirits of turpentine, one and 
one-half pint of raw linseed oil, one ounce balsam fir, one ounce 
ether. Cut the balsam with the alcohol, which will take about 
twelve hours. [That is to say, dilute the balsam with the 
alcohol.] Mix the oil with the turpentine in a separate vessel 
and add the alcohol, and last the ether. — Gr. G. W. 

To Clean Silver. 
There is nothing better for this purpose than Colgate's Silver 
Soap, and Robinson's fndexical Silver Soap, made in Boston. 
After the silver has been cleaned, according to the directions 
accompanying each package of the aforementioned kinds of 
soap, wash it in a pan of hot water in which a tablespoonful of 
ammonia has been povired. — Mrs. S. T. 

To Glean Silver. 
Make a paste of whiting and spirits of wine. Put it on 
with a soft cloth, then rub ic off also with a soft cloth, and 
polish with chamois skin. — Mrs. M. 

To Remove Egg Stains from Silver Spoons. 
Rub with salt, and it will entirely remove the discoloration 
produced by eating a boiled egg with a silver spoon. Rubbing 
with salt will also remove the grayish streaks that collect on 
white tearchina by careless usage. — Mrs. M. G. G. 

To Clean Brasses, etc. 
Electro-silicon, manufactured by J. Seth Hopkins & Co., 
Baltimore, is the best article that can be procured for this pur- 
pose. The price is twenty-five cents per box, with full dircc- 



502 FOR THE KITCHEN. 

tions for use. It may be procured of any druggist. If not 
convenient to get it, use powdered brick-dust. — Mrs. S. T. 

For the Kituhen. 
Sapolio, manufactured by Enoch Morgan & Son.s, should be 
in every kitchen. It is invaluable for cleaning tins, iron-ware, 
knobs, and is so neat a preparation that it does not blacken the 
hauls. 

The Dover Ego-Beateb 
Is indispensable to housekeepers. It froths eggs in less than 
a fourth of the time a spoon or an ordinary egg-beater requires 
to froth them. — Mrs. H. T. 

To Remove Rust from Knives or any Steel. 
Rub very hard with a piece of wash leather, dipped in 
powdered charcoal, moistened with spirits of wine. Rub oflf 
quickly, wash in hot water, and renew as may be necessary. — 
Mrs. K. 

To Glean Knives, Tins, eto. 

Crystal Kitchen Soap, manufactured by Eastman & Brooke, 
Philadelphia, is excellent for this purpose, being so neat a 
compound that the knives and coflee-pot, as well as the tins 
used in the preparation of breakfast, may be quickly cleaned at 
the table while the tea-china is being washed. 

"When not convenient to obtain the Crystal Kitchen Soap, 
knives may be cleaned with ashes either of coal or wood. — Mrs. 
S. T. 

To Whiten the Ivory on the Handles of Knives. 
The ivory handles of knives sometimes become yellow from 
being allowed to remain in dish-water. Rub them with sand- 
papev till white. If the blades have become rusty from careless 
usage, rub them also with sandpaper and they will look as nice 
as new. — Mrs. S. T. 



mixture for shading glass — remedy for red ants. 503 

Mixture for Shading Glass. 
Spanish whiting, one pound; white glue, one-quarter pound; 
litharge, one ounce ; alum, one ounce. Boil the glue and alum 
in a sufficient quantity of water. Let it cool, then add tho 
whiting and litharge. Stir well and use at once. It may be 
washed or scraped off, if desired. — Dr. E. A. G. 

Cement for Rubber and Glass. 
Pulverized gum shellac in ten times its weight of strong 
spirits hartshorn. — Dr. E. A. C. 

To Destroy Bedbugs. 
Dissolve one ounce corrosive sublimate in one pint strong 
spirits. Put it on the bedsteads with a feather, and it will de- 
stroy the bugs and their eggs also. — Mrs. Dr. P. C. 

Bedbug Poison. 

Alcohol, two and a half pints ; camphor, one ounce ; spirits tur- 
pentine, one ounce ; corrosive sublimate, half an ounce. Mix and 
dissolve. If the scent is not objectionable, two ounces com- 
mercial carbolic acid will greatly improve the above. — Dr. E. 
A. C. 

To Destroy Bugs, Ants, etc. 

Dissolve two pounds alum in three quarts boiling water. 
Apply boiling hot with a brush. Add alum to whitewash for 
store-rooms, pantries, and closets. It is well to pound alum fine 
and sprinkle it about beds infested with bugs. — Mrs. S. T. 

Remedy for Red Ants. 

Kerosene oil is a sure remedy for red ants. Place small 
blocks under a sugar barrel, so as not to let the oil touch tht 
barrel.— Jfrs. j; TF. 

Cayenne pepper will keep the store-room and pantry free froiw 
ants and cockroaches. — Mrs. S. D. 



504 remedy fok mosquitoes 0i{ blood-sucking insects. 

Remedy foe Mosquitoes or other Blood-suckino Insect?, 
Uncork a bottle of oil of pennyroyal, and it will drive them 
away, nor will they return so long as the scent of it is in the 
room. — Mrs. S. D. 

For the stings of insects, wasps, hornets, bees, etc. Apply to 
the place soda, hartshorn, or arnica. 

Rats. 
Miv a little powdered potash with meal and throw it into the 
rat-hoies and it will not fail to drive the rats away. If a mouse 
enters into any part of yonr dwelling, saturate a rag with 
cayenne in solution and stuff it into his hole. — Mrs. S. D. 

Concentrated liYE Soap. 

All fat and grease from the kitchen should be carefully saved, 
and should be made into soap before accumulating and becoming 
offensive. 

Boil for six hours ten gallons of lye made of green wood 
ashes. Then add eight or ten pounds of grease, and continue to 
boil it. If thick or ropy, add more lye till the grease is 
absorbed. This is ascertained by dropping a spoonful in a glass 
of water, and if grease remains it will show on the water. 

If hard soap is desired, put one quart of salt in half-gallon of 
hot water. Stir till dissolved and pour into the boiling soap. 
Boil twenty minutes, stirring continually. Remove from the 
fire, and when cold cut in cakes and dry. A box of concen- 
trated lye may be used instead of salt, as it will obviate the 
necessity of using more dripped lye to consume the grease. — 

Mrs. r. W. 

A Washing Mixture. 

Mix and boil twenty minutes one gallon soft soap ; half a 

gallon of weak boiled lye ; four ounces sal soda ; half a gill of 

ST)irits turpentine. Soak the clothes overnight in milk-watm 

water. In the morning, rinse and wring them. To every gal- 



FOE CLEANING CLOTHES — TO WASH BLACK CASHMERE. 505 

Ion cold water add one pint of the above mixture. Stir it well 
in the water. Open the clothes and boil fifteen or twenty min- 
utes ; rinse out of those suds. If the articles are not thoroughly 
cleansed, rub a little of the mixture on the soiled places, and the 
result will be satisfactory. — Mrs. Dr. JS. 



RECIPES FOR RESTORING OLD CLOTHES, SETTING 
COLORS, REMOVING STAINS, ETC. 

For Cleaning Clothes. 
Castile soap, one ounce; aqua ammonia (34), a quarter-pound ; 
sulphur ether, one ounce ; glycerine, one ounce ; spirits wine, 
one ounce. Shave the soap into thin pieces, dissolve it in two 
quarts I'aiu (or any other soft water). Then add the other 
ingi-edients. Rub the soiled spots with a sponge or piece of 
flannel and expose to the air. — Mrs. B. 

Soap to Remove Grease from Cloth. 
Detersive soap, three pounds ; alcohol, two pints ; oxalic 
acid, half an ounce ; essential oil to flavor. First bring the 
alcohol to a boil, then gradually add the soap (pared in thin 
shavings) and stir constantly. Then add the acid and oil, pour 
into moulds while hot, and let it cool. You may, of course, 
make it in smaller quantities, observing the same relative pro- 
portions.— Z>r. E. A. G. 

To Remove Spots from Cloth. 
Aqua ammonia, two ounces ; alcohol, two ounces ; spirits cam- 
phor, one ounce ; transparent soap, one ounce ; rain-water, one 
quart. — Mr. E. C, Jr. 

To Wash Black Cashmere. 
Wash in hot suds, with a little borax in the water. Rinse 
in bluing water, and iron very damp. 

43 



506 TO EES'OJBE THE PILE OF VELVET. 

To Eestore the Pile of Velvet. 
Heat a large flat-iron, place it in a pan, and lay on it a wet 
cloth. The steam will rise rapidly. Hold the right side of the 
velvet over it. If this does not restore the pile, wet it 
on the wrong side. Have a smooth flat-iron very hot. Set 
it on the edge of the table, upright. If it is a narrow piece 
of velvet, it may be easily ironed bj' passing the wet side against 
the iron. If a large piece, have some one to hold the botton 
of the iron upwards while the wet side of the velvet is passed 
over it.— Mrs. S. T. 

To Kestoke old Black Silk. 
Pour one pint boiling water on two tablespoonfuls gum arable. 
When a little cooled, add one teaspoonful spirits turpentine and 
the same of spirits ammonia. "With a large sponge wipe the 
silk on both sides with this mixture. Then lay the silk on an 
ironing-table, place over it a thin piece of colored rice cambric, 
and iron it very hard with a hot iron. This makes old silk 
look like new. — Mrs. S. T. 

To Freshen old Black Silk. 
Boil one ounce crushed soap bark in one quart water till re- 
duced to one pint. Strain it ; sponge the material with the 
liquid, and while wet iron on the wrong side. Good for black 
woollens also. — Mrs. M. E. L. W. 

To Eenew Black Crape Veils. 
Wring two large towels out of water. Then put the veil 
(folded across the middle, lengthways) on the lower towel ; 
spread the other on top and roll the veil, when between, in a 
small tight roll. Let it stand an hour, or till it is damp through. 
Take it out and aii' it a little before it dries. Fold it then in 
smooth squares, put it in a large book, such as an atlas, put 
lieavy weights on it, and let it ; stand an hour or two. — Mrs. 

M. b. c. 



TO SET OOI.OEB FOR REMOVING FRUIT OR INK STAINS. 507 

To Set Coloes. 

Wash in strong salt or alum water and rinse in water in 
which Irish potatoes have been sliced and boiled, to stiffen. 

A strong tea of hay or fodder preserves the color of brown 
linen. One spoonful gall to a gallon of water will set the colors 
of almost any goods. A teaspoonful sugar of lead in a gallon 
cold water (some say a tablespoonful in a quart soft water) 
will set colors. Let the material soak in it an hour. 

A teacup of lye in a pail of water will improve black calicoes. 

To Restore Colors that have been taken out. 
Rub the spots with hartshorn and place in the sun till dry. 

To Keep Blue Calicoes Bright and Fresh. 
The first time they are washed, put them in water with a 
cupful spirits of turpentine to each pail of water. This will 
set the color, and they will always look well. 

Mildew. 
Moisten the mildewed spot with clear water, then rub over it 
a thick coating of castile soap. Scrape chalk with the soap, 
mixing and rubbing with the end of the finger. Then wash it 
oft'. Sometimes one coating suffices, but generally several are re- 
quired. 

Labaraque Solution 

Will remove mildew, ink, or almost any fruit stain from cloth. 
The solution should be washed off soon after applying, as it may 
injure the cloth — Dr. E. A. C. 

To Prevent Fruit Stains from being Permanent. 
Wet the stained spot with whiskey before sending it tc wash, 
and there will be no sign of it when the article comes in. 

For Removing Fruit or Ink Stains. 
Two drachms chloride of lime, two drachms acetic acid, onn 
and a half ounce water. Mix well — Dr. E. A. G. 



508 IRON BUST — MISCjLLLANEOTJS reoipes. 

Iron Rust. 
Salts of lemon applied to the place and exposed to the sun 
will remove all iron rust in linen, etc. 



MISCELLANEOUS RECIPES. 

Ammonia. 

No housekeeper should be without a bottle of spirits of am- 
monia, for, besides its medical value, it is highly useful for 
household purposes. It is nearly as useful as soap, and its 
sheapness brings it in the reach of all. Put a teaspoonful 
immonia in a quart of warm soapsuds, dip in a flannel cloth, 
wipe off the dust and fly-specks, and see how much scrubbing it 
will save you. 

For washing windows and mirrors, it is very desirable. A 
few drops on a piece of paper will take off every spot or finger- 
mark on the glass. 

It cleanses and brightens silver wondei'fully. Dip your 
forks, spoons, etc., in a pint of suds, mixed with a teaspoonful 
spirits ammonia. Then rub with a brush and polish with 
chamois skin. 

It will take grease spots from every fabric. Put on the 
ammonia nearly clear. Lay blotting ])aper on the place, and 
press a hot flat-iron on it a few moments. A few drops of it 
will clean and whiten laces, also muslins. 

It is highly useful and refreshing at the toilet-table. A few 
drops in the bath will remove all offensive perspiration and 
glossiness (if the skin is oily). Nothing is better for cleausing 
the haJT from dust and dandruff. A teaspoonful in a pint of 
water will cleanse the dirtiest brushes. Shake the brushes 
through the water, and when they look white, rinse them in 
water and put them in the sunshine or a warm place to dry. 

For medicinal purposes ammonia is almost unrivalled 



BOEAX BLACK INK. 609 

lulialing it will often cure headache and catarrhal cold. Ten 
drops aromatic spirits of ammonia in a wine-glass of water is 
excellent for heartburn or dyspepsia. The ordinary spirits of 
ammonia may be used also for the purpose, but it is not so 
palatable. 

Ammonia is also good for vegetation If you desire roses, 
fuschias, geraniums, etc., to become more flourishing, add five 
or six drops ammonia to every pint of lukewarm water you give 
them. Do not repeat this more than once in five or six days, 
lest you should stimulate them too highly. 

Be sure to keep a large bottle of ammonia in the house, and 
use a glass stopper for it, as it is very evanescent and is injuri- 
ous to corks. 

[The above remarks on the u.sefulness of ammonia were fur- 
nished and endorsed by Mrs. A. D., of Virginia.] 

BOEAX. 

It is very desirable to keep borax in the house. Its effect is 
to soften the hardest water, and it is excellent for cleansing 
the hair. Some washerwomen use borax for a washing powder, 
instead of soda, in the proportion of a handful of borax powder 
to ten gallons boiling water, and they save in soap nearly half, 
whilst the borax, being a neutral salt, does not injure the tex- 
ture of the linen. — Mrs. S. T. 

Red Ink. 
Bicarb, potash, half an ounce ; cochineal, half an ounce ; bi- 
tart. potash, half an ounce ; powdered alum, half an ounce ; 
pure rain-water, four ounces. Mix, and add ten drops creo- 
Bote.— J5r. E. A. G. 

Black Ink. 
Extract logwood (pulv.), two ounces; hot rainwater, one 
gallon. Simmer over water-bath one hour, till logwood is dis- 
solved. Put into a bottle the following : bichromate potass., 



510 COMMON BOrrLE WAX BAKING POWDIIKS. 

one hundred grains; prus. of potass., forty grains; warm rain- 
water, four ounces. Shake till dissolved, put into the logwood 
solution, stir well together, strain through flannel, and, when 
cold, add corrosive sublimate, ten grains ; warm rain water, 
one ounce. Dissolve thoroughlj', put with the above, and add 
pure carbolic acid crys., one drachm. This makes the best 
black ink in the vorld, at a cost of about ten cents a gallon. — 

Br. E. A. G 

Common Bottle Wax. 

Rosin, eighteen ounces ; shellac, one ounce ; beeswax, two 

ounces. Melt together and color to suit the fancy. — Dr. E. 

A. U. 

Grafting Wax. 

Rosin, two pounds ; beeswax, one pound ; tallow, one 
pound. Melt together, pour into a tub of cold water, and 
work with the hands till pliable. — Dr. E. A. C. 

Liquid Glue. 
Acetic acid, one ounce ; water, half an ounce ; glue, two 
ounces ; gum tragacanth, one ounce. Mix and dissolve. — Dr. 

E. A. C. 

Shoe Blacking (equal to Mason's). 

Ivory black, twelve ounces ; molasses, four ounces ; sperm- 
oil, one ounce ; oil of vitriol, by weight, two drachms ; vinegar, 
one pint. Mix the black, molasses, and oil, and add the vine- 
gar gradually, stirring all the time. Then add the oil of vit- 
riol very carefully, stirring constantly, till effervescence ceases. 

—Dr. E. A. a 

Liquid Blacking. 

Ivory black, in fine powder, one pound ; molasses, twelve 
ounces ; sweet-oil, two ounces ; b(!er and vinegar, two pints of 
each. Mix thoroughly together. — Dr. E. A. C. 

What Most of the Baking Powders are Composed of. 
( One of the Best.) 
Cream tartar, twelve and one-quarter ounces ; bicarb, soda 



10 UKY IlKBBS — COLD OKEAM. 511 

(Eng)., six and one-half ounces ; tartaric acid, one and one- 
tliird ounces ; carbonate of ammonia, four -fifths of an ounce ; 
good wheat flour, four ounces. Mix thoroughly, and pass 
through a tine sieve. — Dr. E. A. C. 

To Dry Herbs. 
Ctathcr on a dry day, just before thej' flower. Put them in 
an oven, and when dry take them out, pick off' the leaves, put 
in bottles, cover tightly, and keep in a dry place. — Mris. Ji. 

To Keep Weevil out of Wheat. 
Put the wheat in barrels, smooth it, and sprinkle a layer of 
salt over the top. Keep the bairels well covered by tying 
cloths over them. A sure preventive. — Mrs. Dr. P. C. 

Fertilizer for Strawberries. 
Nitrate of potash, one pound ; glauber salts, one pound ; 
sal soda, one pound; nitrate of ammonia, one-quarter pound. 
Dissolve the above in forty gallons of water, one-third to be 
applied when the leaves begin to appear, one-third ten days 
later, and the rest when the vines begin to bloom. This quan- 
tity is for forty feet square. — Mrs. R. 

Red Lip Salve. 
Oil of sweet almonds, two ounces ; pure olive-oil, six ounces ; 
spermaceti, one and one-half ounce ; white wax, one ounce. 
Color with carmine, and perfume with oil of roses. — Dr. ]£. 
A. C. 

Lotion for Chaps. 

Borax, two drachms ; strong rose-water, twelve ounces ; 

glycerine, three ounces ; mucilage of quince seed, ten drachms. 

Mix.— i?r. E. A. a. 

Cold Cream. 

Rose-water, half an ounce; oil of sweet almonds, half an 
ounce ; pure olive-oil, two ounces ; spermaceti, half an ounce ; 



512 OAMPHOE ICE — FOE THE TEETH. 

white wax, one drachm. Melt sperm and wax with the oil by 
means of water-bath. Then add the rose-water, and stir til] 
cool. When nearly cool, add oil of roses or any other perfume 
desired.— 2>r. -E". ^. C. 

Camphor Ice. 
White wax, two ounces; spermaceti, two ounces and two 
drachms; camphor, six drachms. Melt, and add olive-oil, 
five ounces and five drachms ; glycerine, three drachms. Make 
into eighteen cakes. — Dr. E. A. C. 

Camphor Salve for Chapped Lips, Hands, etc. 

Spermaceti, two drachms ; white wax, two drachms ; pul- 
verized camphor, two drachms ; washed lard, half an ounce ; 
pure olive-oil, half an ounce. Melt in water-bath, and stii 
with it, while cooling, two drachms glycerine. 

Note. — This is excellent, will relieve almost instantly, and 
will cure in a few applications. — Dr. M. A. C 

Tooth Powder. 
Prepared chalk, two pounds ; powdered orris-root, two 
pounds ; powdered white castile soap, quarter of a pound ; 
powdered white sugar, quarter of a pound ; powdered pumice- 
stone, half an ounce ; powdered carmine, half an ounce ; oil of 
lemon, half an ounce ; oil of lavender, half an ounce. Powder 
the carmine as fine as possible ; then add to it the pumice-stone, 
then the sugar, then the soap, orris, and chalk in siiccession. 
Then add the flavorir^ drop by drop, mixing it thoroughly with 
all the ingredients. Sift through the finest apothecaries' sieve, 
—Dr. E. A. C. 

Ff • the Teeth. 
Van Buskirk's Sozodont, manufactured by Hall & Ruckel, 
N. Y., is all that it claims to be. I have known it tried ter 
years cousecutii ely with the happiest results. — Mrs. S. T. 



charcoal tooth powdee shampoo liqtjoe. 512 

Charcoal Tooth Powder. 
Powdered charcoal, six ounces ; gum myrrh, one ounce ; pale 
Peruvian bark, one ounce. Mix thoroughly. — Dr. E. A. 0. 

Hair-Oil. 
Purs olive-oil, six ounces ; perfumed with oil of jessamine. 
—Dr. E. A. G. 

Sair- Oil. 

Castor-oil, ten ounces ; pure alcohol, six ounces. Perfume 
with oU of bergamot or any other perfume preferred. — Dr. E. 
A.C. 

Hair Tonic. 

Glycerine, one and a half ounces ; tincture cantharides (95 
per cent.), half an ounce ; sulph. quinine, twenty grains ; alco- 
hol, four ounces. Mix together ; perfume with oil of roses. — 
Dr. E. A. a 

AnotJier Sair Tonic, 

Claimed to restore falling out hair, when baldness is not hered- 
itary. Tincture of cantharides (officinal), one ounce; glycerine, 
one and a half ounce ; rose-water, three and a half ounces. — 

Dr.EA. G. 

Hair Dye, No. 1. 

Pyrogallic acid, one drachm; distilled water, three ounces. 
Dissolve.— .^'r. E. A. G. 

No. 2. 
Nitrate of silver (crystals), one drachm ; aqua ammonia, 
strong, two drachms ; distilled water, six drachms. Mix. — Dr. 
E. A. G. 

Hair Restorative. 

Sugar of lead (chemically pure), one drachm ; milk of sulphur, 
two drachms ; rose-water, four ounces ; glycerine, one ounce. 
Mix.— i>r. E. A. G. 

Shampoo Liquor. 

Bay rum, three quarts ; tiucture cantharides (officinal), one 
22* 



bli EOSE BANDOLINE — TO REMOVE BLOOD STAINS. 

and a half ounces ; caib. ammonia, half an ounce ; salts of 
tartar, one ounce. Mix. Thoroughly cleanse the hair with 
clean water after using. — Dr. E. A. C. 

KosE Bandoline. 
Gum tragacanth, six ounces ; rose-water, one gallon ; otto of 
roses, half an ounce. Steep the gum in the water a day or two. 
Agitate frequently while forming into a gelatinous mass. After 
standing forty-eight hours, strain through a clean, coarse linen 
cloth. Again let it stand a few days, and then strain a second 
time. When the consistency is uniform, add the otto of roses, 
and color with carmine. — Dr. E. A. C. 

Almond Bandoline 
Is made as the above, except that no coloring is used, and it is 
scented with quarter of an ounce of oil of bitter almonds 
inttead of rose. — Dr. E. A. G. 

To Clean the Hair and Hair-Brushes and Cojibs. 
Dissolve one ounce bovax and half an ounce camphor in a 
quart boiling water. For cleaning combs and brushes use two 
teaspoonfuls supercarbonate soda dissolved in half a pint boil- 
ing water, or else use one teaspoonful hartshorn dissolved in a 
little water. — Mrs. R. 

To Remove Dandruff. 
Wash the hair thoroughly in rain-water with a good deal of 
borax dissolved in it. — Mrs. G. G. 

To Eemove Blood Stains. 
Make a thin paste of starch and water. Spread over the 
stain. When dry, brush the starch off and the stain is gone. 
Two or three applications will remove the worst stains.— 
Mrs. D. 



I N D K X 



BREAD. 

PAOB 

Uatter bread 56 

" "2d recipe 57 

" 3d " 57 

Brown bread 40 

Biscuit, beaten 42 

" " 3d recipe 43 

" " cream 42 

" " French 41 

" " excellent light ... . 43 

" light 43 

" soda 43 

" thick 43 

" *' thin or crackers. .. 43 

Box bread 40 

Bunns 39 

Cakes, Virginia ash 01 

" batter .55 

" " 8d recipe 55 

" " made of stale bread 55 

" *' cheap recipe 56 

" old Virginia batter cakes . . .55 

" " " " 2d 56 

Cakes, Boston cream 53 

" breakfast .50 

" buckwheat 51 

" " 3d recipe 53 

" " 3d " 53 

" " 4th " 53 

'■ buttermilk 54 

" corn 58 

" cream 52 

" 3d 53 

" " 3d 53 

" farina 54 

" flannel 51 

" 2d method 51 

" 3d " 51 

Indian griddle 56 

" Madison 50 

'• orange 50 

" rice 54 

" Bour milk 54 

" velvet 50 

Coru-bread, plain 61 

" " light 59 



Crackers, Huntsville 4^ 

" soda 43 

" water 44 

Craoklin-bread 60 

Egg-bread 60 

" " old-fashioned 59 

" " soft .59 

Family bread 29 

Graham bread 40 

Grit or hominy bread 58 

" " " 3d recipe... 58 

Henrietta bread 45 

Indian " 00 

Lapland " 45 

" " plain recipe 45 

New bread 45 

Leaven 37 

Light bread 31 

Jenny Lind bread 40 

Loaf, cottage 39 

Loaf bread 29 

" " old Virginia 29 

" " Sdmethod 30 

Lunch bread 46 

Lunn, quick Sallie 36 

" Sallie 2d 34 

" 3d 35 

" " 4th 35 

" " .5th 35 

Old maids 39 

Muffins 36 

2d 37 

3d 38 

bread 38 

corn 57 

cream 38 

white egg 38 

Parker House 37 

salt sulphur 36 

soda 38 

superior > 3T 

sweet spring 3f"» 

Mush bread 59 

Pockets 34 

Pone, St. Nicholas 58 

Potato bread 39 



616 



INDEX. 



Puffs, breakfast 46 

" nun's 44 

Rice bread 60 

Bolls, hot or cold loaf bread 31 

" French ST. 

3d 32 

" " or twist 33 

" pocket-book 33 

" velvet 33 

Kusks 40 

" egg 41 

" German 41 

Halt risen bread 47 

" 2d 47 

Turnovers 33 

Twist 34 

Wafers 44 

Waffles 47 

2d 48 

3d 48 

com meal 57 

mush 49 

rice 49 

"3d 49 

superior rice 49 

soda 48 

another recipe 48 

Yeast 25 

" alum 27 

" another recipe. 26 

" Irish potato 26 

** that never fails 26 



COFFEE, TEA AND 
CHOCOLATE. 

Caf6 au lait 63 

Coffee, to make 62 

" 2d 62 

" boiled 61 

" dripped or filtered 63 

" 2d 63 

" to toast 61 

Broma 65 

Chocolate 65 

Cocoa 65 

Black tea 64 

" 2d 64 

Green " 63 

" 2d 64 

" " a good cup of 64 

Iced " 64 



MILK AND BUTTER. 

Batter, to secure nice for the table 
in winter 



67 



Butter, patting ip 67 

Clabber 67 

Cottage cheese 68 



SOUP. 



Asparagus soup . 



li 


" 2d 


S3 


Beef 


44 


74 




" 2d 


74 


Beefs head, to prepare as Btock 




for soup 


74 


Calf's head soup 


75 


ti I 


" 2d 


75 


tt .i 


" 3d 


76 


ii ( 


" 4th 


76 


4 


" .5th 


77 


U It 


" brown 


77 


Clam souti 


Tf, 




2d 


73 






TS 




" 2d 


79 


Crab 


44 


73 


K 


" 2d 


74 


Giblet 


14 


79 




(I 


sn 




" 3d 


m 


Okra 


4( 


79 


Oxtail 


<4 


7« 


Oyster 


11 


69 


*' 3d 


70 


(( 


" 3d 


70 


(( 


" economical 


«9 


It 


" pur^eof 


10 


Pea 




tiK 


11 


** gzeen 


S4 


u 


" " 2d 


1=4 


Potato 


(I 


S4 


(I 


" 2d 


b4 


Terrapin 
Turtle 




7« 




71 


41 


" 8d 


71 


41 


" 3d 


'i2 


4( 


" mock 


72 


Tomato 


'* 


S3 


(4 


" 2d 


t3 


(( 


" clear 


83 


Veal 


" roast, and chicken 




bone 


SOUD 


79 


Vegetabl 


B soup 


81 




fine 


8U 



OYSTERS AND OTHER 
SHELL PISH 

Clam or oyster fritters 90 



INDEX. 



517 



Crabs, to cook 94 

" derilled 94 

" " 2d 94 

" hard, todevil 95 

Crab Btew 94 

" soft 95 

Lobster curry 95 

Terrapin 96 

" or turtle in batter 96 

" " steaks 96 

stew 96 

Turtles, to cook 96 

" stewed 96 

Oysters, broiled 90 

" to cook 86 

" " 89 

" devilled 88 

" " 88 

" fritters 89 

" S9 

" to fry 89 

" fried 89 

" " 2d 90 

" to fry 90 

" " 2d 90 

" to keep alive and [atteu. 94 

" pat6s 9:^ 

" pie 93 

" " 2d 92 

" pickled 91 

" " 2d 91 

3d 92 

" raw 93 

" to roast 91 

" sausage 93 

" steamed 90 

" shortcake 93 

" scalloped 86 

2d 87 

" 8d 87 

" " 4th 88 



FISH. 

A la crSme. 98 

Catfish 99 

•' " or hog fish 99 

Cod fish balls 104 

" " boiled 104 

" " salt, to dress 105 

" " Nantucket 105 

Chowder 99 

Chowder, Sd 100 

Drum or sturgeon 104 

German fish stew 107 

Halibut 98 

" ad 98 



! fj^gb 

I Mackerel, boiled 105 

: " to broil 105 

I " salt, to cook 106 

Perch, to fry 104 

Bock fish, baked 101 

Rock, to boil 101 

" boiled, 2d 101 

" pickled 102 

" to stew 101 

Shad, baked 102 

" to barbecue 103 

" " broil 103 

" " fry 102 

" potted 103 

" to roast 103 

Salmon, to bake, to boil and steals 106 

" to pickle 107 

Sheep's head, to bake 100 

" or rock, to boil 100 

" to bake, 2d 100 

" " " 3d 101 

" boiled 100 

Sturgeon, baked 104 

" cutlet 103 

" scolloped 103 

Trout, tofry 104 



GAME. 

Duck, wild Ill 

" "to cook for breakfast. Ill 
Fowl " " roast in a stove. ., . 110 

Goose " Ill 

" 3d Ill 

Partridges, to broU 113 

*' and pheasants, to cook 112 

" to roast 112 

Pigeon, to broU 112 

" pie 113 

" to stew 113 

Rabbit, barbecue. 109 

" roast 109 

" stewed 109 

•' " 2d 109 

Reed birds, to dress 113 

Sora, ortolans and other small 

birds, to cook 113 

Sora, ortolans and other small 

birds, to cook 114 

Sora, ortolans, robins and other 114 

small birds, to cook 

Squirrel, to barbecue 108 

Turkey, wild 110 

" " simple way of pre- 
paring 110 

Venison, haunch 108 

" " of 107 



518 



INUKX. 



Venison, stewed 108 

" 2d 108 



MEATS. 

Backbone or chine, to cook 120 

pie 120 

Bacon, to cure 125 

" curing 125 

" fried laO 

" and greens 129 

" shoulder of 139 

Chine, to dress 121 

" roast 121 

Ham, baked 127 

" 2d 128 

" or tongue, bake 127 

broUed 120 

" of pork, to cook 121 

" for curing 125 

" Virginia mode of curing. . 1-4 

" toboil 120 

" " " 2d 127 

" weighing 10 lbs 126 

" fried 129 

" an improvement to. 120 

" relish 131 

" spiced 129 

" stufTed and baked 12S 

" to stuff, fresh cured 1 28 

toast 1.31 

" 2d lai 

Jowl and turnip salad 130 

Lard, to cure 1 24 

Leg of purk stuffed 121 

Pickled pork, equal to fresh 130 

Pork royal 122 

" steak 119 

Sausage meat 122 

" '* excellent recipe 122 

" seasoning for 122 

Salt pork, how to cook 131 

Bpaie ribs 1 19 

" " pork 110 

" 3d 119 

" 4th 119 

" " grisken and short ribs, 

to cook 120 

Souse cheese 123 

'* to make from hogs' feet .. . 1,23 

Sweetbread of hog 123 

Tongue or ham, potted 131 

Barbecue shoat 1.32 

Poroquartcr of shoat to ro&st. . . . 132 

Head of shoat 134 

" " " to stew 13.5 

" " pig to hash VSi) 



nan 
134 



I Head and jowl of pig tostcA- 

! J owl of shoat 133 

Boast pig 133 

" shoat 132 



BEEP AND VEAL. 

A-la mode 140 

" 2d. 140 

" " 3d 141 

Boiled beef and turnijjs 141 

Brine for beef 1.54 

Brains, croquettes 1.51 

" to dress 150 

" "fry 150 

" '■ l.')0 

" " stew 150 

Collaps, beef 14(i 

Collar 142 

Cow heel 153 

" " fried 1.53 

Corned beef 1.54 

" " 2d 1.5B 

" " 3d 15B 

" " and tongues 155 

" "or pork 1.55 

" round, to cook 1.58 

" beef, how to cook 159 

" " tongue, to cook 1.58 

Cure " for drying. 159 

" " ham IfiO 

Daube Froide 163 

Dry beef and tongue 100 

French dish 1.53 

Frizzled beef 144 

Fricasseed beef 145 

Gravy brown 152 

" for roast beef 152 

Heel of beef to fry 153 

Hunter's beef or spiced round. . . . 1.50 
" " " " 2d. 157 

Heartof " 147 

Kidneys, broiled 148 

fried 148 

" 2d 148 

" grUled 148 

" stewed 147 

" 2d 147 

Liver 149 

" fried 140 

" tofry. 149 

" to fry with onions 149 

" dried for relish 149 

Ox-heart, to roast 147 

Roast beef 138 

" " 2d 139 

Rib roast of beef IM 



INUKX. 



519 



PAGE 

Round or beef, to spice 157 

Rump " " to stew 145 

Steak, broiled 142 

" 2d 143 

" how to cook 143 

" fried 144 

" to fry 144 

" fried with onions 143 

Stew, Lebanon. 146 

Sausage, beef 1 53 

" bologna 153 

Smoked beef 159 

Spiced " 157 

Tongue h la terrapin 14K 

*^ toast 147 

" to stew 140 

" to pickle 155 

Tripe 151 

" 'M 151 

" to fry 152 

" " prepare 151 

Calves' brains 1C7 

Cake, of voal. 164 

Chopd, veal Kil 

Cutlets, veal KM 

•' 2d im 

" "• 3d 103 

Cold veal, dressed with white 

sauce 163 

Daub veal 167 

Feet, calf's, dressed as terrapins.. 165 

Head, calf's 167 

" to bake 167 

Liver, bewitched 106 

" broiled 105 

" to fry lOi; 

" 2d 160 

" simple way of cooking 1 66 

Loaf, veal 1 68 

" 3d 164 

Loin of veal, stewed 160 

Minced " 163 

Roast " 101 

Steak " 161 

Sweetbreads 165 

2d 165 

" " 3d. 165 



MUTTON AND LAMB. 

Broiled 170 

Chops, mutton 173 

'!^ " 2d 173 

" 3d 173 

'• " broiled 173 

Corned " 171 

IiBg rf mutton, boiled 170 



PACK 

Leg of uiutton, boiled, 3d 170 

" " roast 160 

Roast mutton 169 

Saddle of mutton, to cook 171 

" " 171 

" " iced 171 

" " to roast 170 

Shoulder " corned 17^ 

Slices, grilled 174 

Stew 178 

" 2d 173 

Tongues, sheep 174 

Lamb's head 175 

" " to fricassee 175 

Roast lamb 1 74 

Shoulder of lamb, to grill 1T4 

Decorations and garnishes for 

cold meat and salads 175 

POULTRY. 

Chickens 183 

to boil IM 

" broil 1S7 

" " dress with tomatoes. 1S6 

"fricassee 187 

" fried 180 

" 2d 186 

" pie 187 

" "2d 188 

" pudding 188 

3d 188 

" " with potatoes.. 188 

" to roast 184 

" smothered 185 

" to steam 184 

" " stew 1S5 

" " " 185 

Ducks, young, to prepare 190 

" to stew lyO 

Goose, devilled 189 

to roast ISO 

Turkey, boiled 180 

2d 180 

" boned 181 

" devilled 181 

" hash 181 

Turkey, meat jelly for I&i 

" roast 178 

" " t-'d 178 

" " 3d 179 

" " with truffles 179 

" to steam ISO 

SALADS. 

Celery salad 196 

Chicken " 19* 



520 



INDEX. 



PAGE 

Chicken salad, 2d 195 

" 3d 195 

" " 4th 196 

" for 35 people 195 

Fish salad 193 

Irish potato salad 198 

Lettuce salad 198 

" dressed 200 

" " 200 

lif bster salad. 192 

Oyster " 191 

Potato " 197 

" 2d 198 

Salmon salad, and lobster 191 

Slaw 199 

" cold 199 

" " 2d 199 

Terrapin salad 193 

Tomato " 197 

Turnip " 197 

Turkey " 193 

" 2d 193 

" 3d 194 

Veal and potato salad 197 



SAUCES. 

Anchovy sauce 202 

Apple " 204 

Cod's head " for 201 

Pish " 200 

" " 2d 201 

" " 3d 202 

" "or sauce for salad. 200 

Dutch " for fish 201 

Horseradish sauce 202 

Maitre d'H6te sauce 202 

Mint sauce 204 

Mushroom sauce 203 

" " 203 

^Nasturtium " 204 

Onion " 204 

Pepper vinegar 203 

Tomato sauce 203 



SAUCES ESPECIALLY SUITA- 
BLE FOR FOWLS. 

Asparagus sauce 205 

Celery " 205 

Cranberry " 206 

Drawn butter 205 

" " ad 206 

•" " 3d 206 



FAOK 

Egg sauce 205 

Mushroom sauce 206 

Oyster " 305 

Sauce for boiled poultry 205 

White sauce 204 



SALAD DRESSING. 

Cabbage dressing 308 

Celery dressing 311 

" 3d 211 

Chicken salad dressing 208 

Cold slaw " 310 

Lettuce " 208 

" 2d 310 

Sana Mayonnaise 209 

Salad dressing 207 

" 2d 207 

" 3d 207 

" 4th 208 

" 5th 210 



BRUNSWICK STEWS, GUMBO, 
SIDE DISHES. 

Apples, fried 231 

" spiced 232 

Bacon fraize 227 

Beef cakes 226 

Beefsteak and potatoes 226 

Breakfast dish 321 

" " 2d 323 

Broth, Scotch 216 

Caesa rolls 331 

Calf's head pudding 223 

Cold chicken, devilled 325 

" " with vinegar 225 

Croquettes 217 

" 2d 217 

3d 218 

" 4th 218 

Chicken croquettes 217 

Croquettes balls 218 

potato 318 

" sausage 319 

2d 219 

" meat 217 

Cmmb pie 224 

Dried apples, peaches, quiuces and 

pears, to stew 231 

Fish and potatoes 236 

Forcemeat balls 219 

Pondee 330 

,Gibletpie 23C 



INDEX. 



521 



Gumbo 213 

" 2d 213 

" 3d 213 

" filet k la Creole 214 

Haggis 225 

Hash 220 

" baked 222 

Hominy, to boil 228 

" " 2d 229 

" croquettes 228 

" fried 229 

Hotch potch 210 

Liver pudding 223 

lioaf, meat 216 

Macaroni 227 

2d 227 

3d 227 

" Italian method 227 

Mince, with bread crumbs 219 

" " potatoes 220 

Mushrooms, broiled 230 

to stew 230 

" " fry or broil.. 229 

" and sweetbread pat6s 229 

Mutton, hashed 215 

•' " 2d 215 

" " 3d 215 

Nice pie 223 

Pig's head pudding 223 

Potato pie 223 

" 2d 223 

Pot pouri 220 

Prunes, stewed 232 

Ragout souse 221 

Bice and egg pates 231 

Sandwiches 222 

" 2d 222 

Squab pie 225 

Side dish 216 

Stew, black 216 

Stew, Brunswick 211 

Stew " 2d 212 

3d 212 

" " 4th 218 

Terrapin, mock 221 

Tongue and prunes 231 

Veal pates 214 

Welsh rarebit 231 



EGGS 

A-la-creme 237 

Boiled eggs '. 233 

" " soft 333 

Baked for dinner 237 

Egg cups, breakfast dish 233 

'•for breakfast 233 



PACB 

Egg with toast. 236 

Ham and eggs 238 

" 6gg pudding 237 

Omelette 234 

2d 234 

" 3d 234 

4th 234 

" cheese 235 

" German 235 

ham 235 

mock 235 

" souffle 235 

Pie, egg 237 

Poached eggs 236 

Rumble " 236 

Scrambled eggs 233 



Stuffed 237 



VEGETABLES. 

Artichokes, burr 249 

Asparagus, to cook 238 

2d 239 

Beans, lima, to boil 245 

2d 245 

" " " 3d 254 

Beets, to boil 239 

Cabbage, with bacon, to boil 251 

" boiled without bacon. . . 251 

fried 252 

" pudding 251 

2d 251 

Cauliflower - 252 

Celery 240 

Corn fritters 242 

" " 2d 243 

" " for breakfast 243 

" green, to boU 241 

" pudding 242 

" " 2d.... 242 

" put in brine 254 

Cucumbers, to dress raw 246 

Cucumbers, to fry 246 

Cymlins, with bacon 240 

" to fry 241 

fritters 241 

' ' pudding 241 

** or squash to stew 240 

Egg-plant, to bake 249 

" to fry 249 

" " pudding 249 

" " to stew 248 

Okra 246 

Onions, to bake 239 

" "cook 239 

*' " dress raw 240 



44 



522 



INDICX. 



PAGR 

Ouiona, to try 239 

Parsnips, to oook 250 

" " fry 249 

" " stew 249 

Peas, cornfield or black-eye 354 

" dried, to boil 254 

" green, " 238 

Pees, kon-£eel 253 

Potato chips, Irish 247 

" cakes 247 

Pc tatoes creamed 247 

Irish, to boil 246 

Potato hash 247 

" pudding 247 

" snow 247 

Potatoes, sliced, to fry 347 

" sweet, to boil 248 

" " to cook inferior. 348 

" to fry 248 

Radishes 240 

Ropa Viga 344 

Salsify, to cook 350 

" fry 250 

" " stew 250 

' 250 

Slaw, warm 251 

" 2d 253 

" 3d 253 

Snaps, to boil 240 

Spinach 252 

Succotash 240 

Tomatoes, baked 243 

" 2d 243 

fried 344 

" omelet 344 

*' raw, to dress 345 

" "2d 245 

" stewed 244 

" " 2d 244 

Tomato toast 845 

Turnips 253 

" salad 253 

" to stew. 253 

Yams, to dress 248 



PICKLE AND CATSUPS. 

Apple pickle 294 

Blackberry pickle 295 

Cabbage " for present use. 362 

" cut 3(13 

" " chopped 263 

Cantaloupe pickle, 3 287, 288 

Composition " 291 

Cherry " 205 

Chow-chow " 5 282-284 

" '■ '■ (Lecsburg) .... 285 



PAOI 

Cucumber pickle 4 206-368 

•' " boiled 3(i8 

" " ripe 269 

" sweet, 2 369 

Damson " 3 290,291 

French " 3 293 

Green " 3 864-266 

German " 290 

Honolulu melon pickle 281 

Hyden salad, 5 273-375 

Ingredients for one gallon green 

pickle 2.58 

Kentucky pickle 893 

Lemon " 2 294 

Mangoes, oil, 3 276 

" to green 270 

" stuffing for 60 270 

" peach, i, 878,879 

" pepper 279 

Martinas pickle 381, 283 

Muskmelon pickle 288 

Onion " 3 293, 204 

Peach " 4 886,287 

" " spiced 286 

" " sweet 386 

Pear, peach or quince pickle .... 887 

Pluni pickle 289 

Preparing pickles 3.58 

Ragout pickle 291 

Spanish " 293 

Sweet " 387,290 

Tomato ' ' (green) 3 269, 870 

" " (sweet) 3 373 

" (ripe) 273 

' ' sauce (green) 3 270, 371 

*' marmalade or sauce for 

meats 873 

Vinegar for pickle, 3 256 

" " yellow pickle 2,57 

Walnut pickle, 4 280, 281 

Watermelon pickle, 4 289 

" " sweet 288 

Yellow " 7 358-361 

Bay sauce, 8 299 

Caper sauce 302 

Celery vinegar 301 

Cucumbfvr catsup, 4 297 

Horseradish sauce 301 

Mushroom catsup, 4 299, 300 

" sauce 300 

Mustard, to mix 303 

'' aromatic 303 

Pepper catsup , 302 

'■ sauce 301 

'* vinegar 302 

Tomato catsup, 2 295, 296 

Tartan sauce 302 

" " (Moroan's) 803 



INDEX. 



523 



Walnut catsup, 3 Si98 

" leaves, catsup from a9S 



CAKE. 

Almond cake, 2 S!3S 

Angel-s " 811 

''^ bread 333 

Black cake 314, 315 

Brides' cake, 4 309, 810 

Capital " 342 

Cioron " 4 327, 328 

Cocoanut cake, 6 323, 324 

Chocolate " 5 325,326 

" jelly cake 327 

Corn-starch " 313 

Clay " 323 

Cream " 2 340,341 

Currant " 329 

Cup " 3 342 

Custard " 344 

Cake 343 

" with sauce 344 

" that never fails 344 

Delicate cake, 2 313 

Delicious " 2 343 

SYuit " 7 316-319 

Fig " 329 

Gold " 311 

Mrs. Gait's caEe 345 

JeUyfor " 2 334,335 

Jelly " 2 335 

Jelly cake (lemon) 2 335, 336 

" " (rolled) 2 336 

" filling for 337 

Kettle cake 345 

Lady " 3 311, 312 

Lee " (B. B.) 2 321 

Leighton cake 306 

Lemon " 2 330,321 

Mountain cake 307 

" ash-cake 308 

Merry Christmas cake 313 

Marble cake 337,339 

" or Bismarck cake 339 

Norfolk " 345 

Naples biscuit 347 

Orange cake, 3 319, 320 

Parson's " 346 

I'Dund " 7 329,331 

Pineapple " 319 

Risen " 346 

Rose or clouded cake 3ii9 

Bna,;les' " 346 

Silver " 310 

Snow " 308 

" mountain " 307 i 



PAGB 

Spice mountain cake 340 

Sponge " 2 332 

Sponge cake (confederate) 338 

" (cream) .S33 

" " (butter) 2 331, 332 

" " (extra) 333 

" " that never fails 333 

" " roll,8 334 

Tipsy cakes 347 

Velvet " 347 

White " 2 305 

" " (superior) 305 

" mountain caJ^e, 4 306, 307 

" " ash-cake 308 

" fruitcake, 4 313,314 

Whortleberry 347 

Icing for cakes 849 

Icing, 5 348, 349 

" boiled, 2 848, 349 

" cold 348 

" hot 348, 349 

Ginger bread 350, 351 

Ginger bread, cup cake 351 

" " lightened 351 

" '* risen 351 

" " soft 350 

Ginger loaf 350 

Molasses cake, 3 351, 352 

' ' or black cake 352 

•■^ pound cake 353 

Small cakes 353 

Albany calces 353 

Bonnefeadas 361 

Coll'ee cakes 357 

Cookies 3.58 

Cinnamon cakes, 2 3.57 

Colleu " 3.57 

Cream " 354 

Crullers 359 

Delicate tea cakes, 2 360 

Delicious small cakes 861 

Dimples 363 

Drop cakes 3.53 

Ginger cakes, 2 3ii2, 363 

" (drop) 364 

" " (cheap) 363 

" bunns 863 

" snaps, 2 363, 364 

Gloucester cakes 359 

Holmcrof t 358 

Jumbles, 8 356 

" (Jackson) 3.56 

" (lemon) 361 

Macaroons 356 

Marguerites, S 354, 355 

Molasses cakes 364 

Nothings 358 

Scotch cakes 35? 



624 



INDEX. 



PAGE 

Strawberry cakes 357 

Sugar " 358 

Shrewsbury " 355 

Sweet crackers 353 

Spice nuts 364 

Tea cakes, 2 359, 360 

Tartaric cakes 360 

Wafers, 2 368 



PUDDINGS. 

Apple pudding, 5 376 

Apple charlotte 377 

Apple custard 378 

Apple custard pudding. 377 

Apple meringue, 3 377 

Apple dumplings 373 

Apple roll (baked) 377 

Almond pudding 381 

Amherst " 870 

Arrowroot " 389 

Batter " 398 

Balloons 398 

Bread padding 390 

Boiled bread pudding, a 373 

Boiled pudding of acid fruit 371 

" sweetmeat pudding. .372 

" molasses " 373 

" pudding, 2 370, 373 

" dumpMngs, paste for 373 

Cake pudding 387 

Caramel pudding 383 

Citron " 2 378 

Cocoanut " 5 381, 383 

Chocolate " 3 38ii, 383 

Cherry " 371 

Cheesecake pudding 388 

Cracker " 392 

Cream " 395 

Currant " 375 

Custard " 390 

Cottage " 396 

Delicious pudding 898 

" hasty pudding 397 

Eve's pudding 374 

Economical pudding 400 

Extra fine " 899 

Fruit " 374,391 

French " 391 

Feather " 397 

Irishpotato " 394 

Indian " 399 

Jellyroll 387 

Lemon pudding, 4 380 

Lemon meringue, 2 881 

Molasses pudding, 3 39.5, 396 



nag 

Marrow padding 393 

Original " 2 369,392 

Orange " 4 378, 379 

One egg " 39s 

Peach dumplings 375 

Pennypudding 400 

Plain " 401 

Plum " 4 365-368 

" " Christmas 368 

" " economical, 2 369 

" " English, 367 

" rich 367 

" " simpler kind of... 369 

Poor man's pudding 400 

Puff " 400 

Preserve " 387 

Pudding without milk or eggs 382 

Queen of paddings, 5 383-385 

Raspberry pudding 375 

Bice " 3 393,394 

Sago " 389,390 

Sippet " 390 

Snow " 3 386,387 

Snowball " 396 

Sweet potato •' 394, 395 

" " roll 372 

Suet pudding, 2. 373 

" damplings 374 

Steam pudding 370 

Superior " 399 

Sweetmeat pudding, 2 388 

Mrs. Spence's " 391 

Tapioca " 385 

" with apples 386 

Teacup pudding 391 

Texas " 396 

Thickened milk pudding 347 

Transparent " 388, 389 

Troy " 371 

Tyler " 395 

Virginia " 398 

Washington " 397 



PUDDINU SAUCES. 

Brandy sauce 403 

Cold " 3 403 

French " 402 

Lemon " 403 

Molasses " 404 

Nice " 402 

Rich " 403 

Sauce for pudding, 3 403,403 

" for boiled pastry 4J)4 

Wine sa'.ioe. 3 40S 



INDEX. 



525 



PASTRY. 

PAQB 

Apple pie, 1, 2, 3 409, 410 

Blackberry pie 410 

Cheixy " 409 

Cream " 1, 2. 412 

Currant " 409 

Custard " 413 

Cream tarts 415 

Cheese cakes, almond, 1, 2 415 

" cornstarch 414 

" lemon 414 

Damson pie 408 

Gooseberry pie 410 

Lemon " 1, 2, 3, 4 40fi 

Lemon cream pie 406 

Lemon tarts 415 

Minco meat, 1, 2, 3, 4 411, 412 

Molasses pie, 1 , 2 413, 414 

Orange pie, 1, 2, 3 407 

Pastry, 1, 2, 3 405 

Puff paste 405 

Peach pie 408 

Peach meringue pie 407 

Potato pie (sUced) 411 

" " (sweet) 411 

Prune " 408 

Prune tarts 415 

Rhubarb pie 411 

Soda cracker pic 413 

Silver " 413 

Sugar " 413 

Strawberry shortcake 408 

Washington pie 418 

Whortleberry " 410 

Fritters (Bell) 416 

" (French) 416 

" (made with yeast) 416 

Pancakes (common) 417 

" (quire of paper 417 



JELLIES, BLAJSrC-MANGE, 

CHARLOTTE RDSSE, BAKED 

CUSTARDS, CREAMS, ETC. 

Jelly (calves' feet) 419 

** cream 431 

" crystal 420 

" gelatine, 2 430 

" " without straining . 420 
" " without eggs or 
boiling 431 

Jelly without boiling. 431 

" (stock) 419 

Blanc-mange, 4 431 , 422 

" (arrowroot) 422 

" (cofFeci 433 



PAOB 

Blanc-mange, (chocolate) 423 

" (custard) 432 

Charlotte russe, 6 433, 424 

" " (strawberry) 424 

Baked custard, 8 425 

Apples (baked) 439 

Apple compote 429 

" float 428 

Apples (nice dessert of) 429 

" (nice plain dessert of) 439 

" (iced) 430 

" (nice preparation of) 439 

Apple snow 438 

Bonny clabber. 428 

Cream (Bavarian) 2 426 

" Italian 436 

" Russian 436 

Spanish, 2 425,436 

" Tapioca, 2 427 

Float 428 

Lemon froth 437 

Slip 428 

Syllabub 427 

ICE-CREAM. 

Bisque ice-cream 437 

Buttermilk ice-cream 437 

Caramel ice-cream 435 

" '• (Norvell House) 4.35 

Coooanut " 3 436 

Chocolate " 435,436 

Gelatine " 436 

Ice-cream, 3 432 

" (without cream) 437 

Lemon ice-cream 432 

Orange " 433 

Peach " 433 

Pineapple " 434 

Strawberry ice-cream 433 

Vanilla " 434 

White " 436 

Prozen Custards. 

Bisque 438 

Caramel cnstard 437 

Frozen custard, 2 437, 438 

" pudding 438 

Plumbifere 438 

Plum pudding glac6 .,, 438 

Sherbet 

Cream sherbet 439 

Lemon " 4 438 

Orange " 430 



526 



INDEX. 



Water Ices. 

PAGE 

Citrun ice 441 

Q«latine ice 441 

Oraixge "3 440 

Pineapple ice, 3 440, 441 

Ba.spbeiiT " 441 

WatenneloQ ice 441 

Fruit Dessertt. 

Ambrosia, 3 443 

Canteleupes 443 

Peaches and cream 443 

Pineapple 443 

Strawberries 443 

Watermelons 443 

PRESERVES AND FBUIT 

JELLIES. 

Apples (preserved for winter use). 450 

Apple mange 4.50 

" preserves (orab) 450 

Cherry " 451 

Candled fruit 454 

Damson preserves 451 

Fig " 4.53 

Pox grape " 4.51 

Fruit (putting up) 453 

Lemon preserves 448 

" (sliced) 447 

" marmalade 448 

" conserves 454 

Muskmelon preserves (ripe) 446 

Orange " 446 

" marmalade, 2 447 

" conserves 454 

Peach preserves, 3 448, 449 

" marmalade 449 

" (brandy) 2 449,450 

" conserves 454 

Pear preserves 450 

Pineapple preserves 446 

Quince jam 451 

Raspberry jam 4.53 

Sweetmeat preserves 444 

Strawberry " 453 

jam 453 

Syrup (golden) 454 

Tomato preserves 453 

" sweetmeats 453 

Watermelon marmalade 445 

" or muskmelon pre- 
serves 445 

Apple jelly, 3 455, 456 

" " (crab) 4.56 

Blackberry jelly 4.54 

Currant " 4.55 

" " (without cooking). 454 



PAoa 

Cranberry jelly 455 

Grape " 457 

Green grape jelly 4.57 

Orange '• 4.56 

Jelly oranges 4.57 

Quince jelly 4.56 

Tomato 458 

CONFECTIONERY. 

Almond macaroons 460 

Caramels, 3 459 

" (chocolate) 460 

Cocoanut balls 400 

" caramels, 3. 460 

" drops 460 

Cream candy 4.59 

Cream chocolate 460 

Nut candy 458 

Molasses candy 459 

Sugar " 3 4B8 

" kisses 458 

WINE. 

Blackberry wine, 4 463, 463 

Cider " 467 

Cherry " 467 

Currant " 3 466 

Gooseberry " 466 

(3^rape Wine, 3 464 

" (Catawba) 464, 485 

" " (wild black) 465 

" " (native) 466 

Pox grape wine 405 

Orange " 467 

Strawberry " 467 

Tomato " 467 

Apple toddy, 2 468, 469 

Beer (cream) ; 474 

" (ginger) 475 

" (lemon) 475 

" (small) 475 

" (summer) 474 

Blackberry cordial, 2 470 

Cherry " 471 

Crab cider 475 

Cider (mulled) 475 

Dewberry cordial, 3 470, 471 

Eggnog 468 

Lemon vinegar 474 

" or orange syrup 474 

Mint cordial 473 

Orgeat 474 

Raspberry acid 473 

" vinegar, 3 473 

Regent punch 469 

Roman punch 469, 47C 

Rum " 46f 



INDKX. 



527 



otrawberry acid, 3 473 

" oordial .....!".". 471 

" vinegar 473 

Tea punch 469 

THE SICK-ROOM DIET AND 
REMEDIES FOR THE SICK. 

Aromatic vinegar. 483 

Arrowroot, 2 479, 480 

Asthma, sore-throat and cough, 

remedy for 491 

Beef essence 481 

" tea 481 

Boils 493 

" salve for 403 

Bone felon 493 

Blisters, dressing for 403 

Breakfast for an invalid 480 

Breast salve. 487 

Burns and scalds 488 

Carolina small hominy 483 

Carrot salve for blisters 493 

Cold in the head, cure for, 2 490 

Colic, cure for 486 

" cramp, cure for. 486 

Corns, remedy for 49:i 

Coughs, remedies for 490 

Chalk mixture for infants and 

yoimg children 489 

Chicken essence 481 

jelly 483 

" cholera 488 

Chilblains 486 

Chill pills 489 

Cuts 48fi 

Cracked wheat 480 

Croup, good treatment for 403 

Diarrhoea, remedy for 489 

Dysentery " " 489 

Earache " " 487 

Inflamed eyes, remedy for 487 

Epilepsy " " 48B 

Pood for sick infants 480 

Flames, to extinguish clothing in. 493 

Jaundice, remedy for 401 

Jamaica ginger (Brown's) 484 

Lime-water 484 

Liniment (a, good) 493 

" for rheumatism 493 

' ' for recent burns 489 

Mashed finger 488 

Milk punch 481 

Mustard 484 

" leaves 485 

CTourishing way to prepare-chicken, 
squirrel, or beef for the sick . 4S3 



PAGB 

Ocean salt 486 

Panada 482 

Prickly heat, remedv for 48S 

Poison oak " " "3 401 

Poisons, antidotes to 494-40H 

Acids 494 

Alkalies 494 

Arsenic 404 

Carbolic acid 404 

Chloral 404 

Chloroform 495 

Copper 495 

Corrosive sublin.ate 405 

Gases 495 

Glass, in powder 495 

Iodine 49.5 

Lead 495 

Nitrate of silver 495 

Opium _. 495 

Phosphorus ". 495 

PruBsic acid 495 

Strychnine 496 

Tartar emotie 40B 

Venomous bites of rabid dogs and 

serpents 406 

Quinine, to take without tasting. . 493 

Racahaut 480 

Seamoss farina 480 

Seltzer aperient 484 

Soda mint 484 

Sore throat, remedy for, o 48.5, 486 

Sick-room 476, 496 

Scarlet fever, preventive to, 3, 487, 488 

Snake bites 488 

Toast, drv 483 

" milk 483 

" scalded 483 

Toothache drops 487 

Thieves' vinegar 483 

Weak back, remedy for 494 

Wine whey 480 

Whooping-cough, remedy for .... 400 



HOUSE-CLEANING. 

Ants and bugs, to destroy .503 

Bedbugs " " .503 

" poison .503 

Brasses, to clean 501 

Carpets, to wash 409 

" to remove ink from 500 

Cement for rubber and glass 503 

Egg-beater 503 

Egg stains, to remove from silver 

spoons 501 

Floors to oil 499 

" to dye 499 



528 



INDEX. 



PAGE 

Fumitnie to dean 500 

" unvamishud, to clean.. 500 

" polish, 2 ,500,501 

House-cleaning (directions fui)496-498 

KnVes and tins, to clean. 502 

' ' to remove rust from 502 

" to whiten handles of 502 

Mosquitoes 504 

Marble slabs, to clean 500 

OU-cloth, to wash, 2 499 

Paint, to clean 499 

Rats .504 

Ked ants, remedy for .503 

Sapolio for kitchen use 502 

SUver, to clean, 2. 501 

Shading glass, mixture for 508 

Soap, concentrated lye 504 

Wall paper, to remove grease 

from ,500 

Washing mixture 504 

Whitewash, outdoor 498 

" indoor 498 



RECIPES FOR RESTORING OLD 
CLOTHES, SETTING COLORS, 
REMOVING STAINS, ETC. 

Black cashmere, to wash 505 

Black crape veils, to renew. 506 

Black silk, to renew old ,506 

" " to freshen old 506 

Blue calicoes, to keep bright and 

fresh ,507 

Colors, to set. 507 

Colors, to restore 507 

Cloth, to remove spots from 505 

Cloth, soap for removing grease 

from 505 

Clothes to clean 505 



_ . '■»<'« 

Frmt stains, to remove 507 

" or ink stains, to remove 507 

Iron rust, to remove 508 

Mildew, " " 507 

" Labaraque solution for. . . . 607 
Velvet, to restore the pile of. 506 



MISCELLANEOUS RECIPES. 

Almond bandoline 514 

Ammonia ,508 

Borax 509 

Bottle wax 510 

Blood stains, to remove 514 

Camphor ice 513 

" salve 512 

Cold cream 511 

Chaps, lotion for 511 

Dandruff, to remove 514 

Fertilizer for strawberries 511 

Grafting wax 510 

Hair-oil, 3 513 

" dye, 2 513 

" tonic 513 

" restorative ,513 

" to clean ,514 

" brushes, to clean 514 

Herbs, to dry 511 

Ink (black) 509 

" (red) 509 

Liquid glue 51 

'^ blacking 510 

Lip salve (red) 511 

Rose bandoline 514 

Shoe blacking 510 

Shampoo liquor 513 

Sozodont 512 

Tooth powder 512 

" " charcoaL 513 



THE END. 



^t results from the foregoing Receipts 
/" • do your Cooking on 

rHE CHAMPION MONITOR. 

IT IS MADE IN SIZES TO SUIT ALL; 
WITH OK WITHOUT EESERVOIKS (HIGH OR LOW), 
AND SIX-HOLE STOVE. *• .. 



Prices Itanging^ from il^tG to #6S. '' 




-CLASS in every respect". Oven lakob and well made, thor- 
\' protected and furnished with fevery convenience. All parts 
the fire made extka heavy and durable. 

ellent Bakers and Economical in Fuel. 

lot -obtainable at your dealers, send for full information to the 



JMI. IRESOI^ & GO. 

CIIVCIIVIVATI, O. , 



jiealth! Comfort! Elegance! 



DR.SCOTrS 




POSITIVELY secured with thii _ 
tlful invention. By a happy tboi . 
Dr. Scott, of London, the inventor of , 
celebrated Electric Brushes^ has adapt'i ., 
Electro-Magnetism to Ladies' CorsetlL 
thus bringing this wonderful curativ^ 
agency within the reach of every lad^ 
They should be adopted at once by those 
suffering from any bodily ailment; and 
she who wishes to ward off l>i8eai»e, 
preserve her g;ood healtK, and re-^ 
taiu and improve the eleganoe ot 
her figure, should give them an 
immediate trial. It lias been found 
that MAGNETIC T&EATMENT makes the 
muscles and tissues more plastic and 
yielding, and it is argued from this that 
Ladies, who wear these Corsets will have no 
difficult in moulding the figure to any de' 
sired form without tight lacing. A tenden- 
cy to extreme fatness or leanness is a 
disease which, in most cases, these ar- 
ticles will be found to cure. In appear- 
ance they do ngt 4iifer from the usual 
corsets, being made of the same materials 
and shape. (See cut.) They are worn 
the same, and fit the same, out give a 
more graceful figure. 



The Secretary of the Pall Mail Elec- 
tric Association of London " earnestly" 
"recommends all ' Ladles suffering" 
"from any twdliy aliment to adopt" 
"these Corsets without delay. They" 
"perform astonishing cures and In-" 
"vigorate every part of the system." 



In place of the ordinary steel busks in 
front, and a rib or two at the back. Dr. 
Scott inserts steel maffiietods which 
are exactly the same size, shape, length, 
breadth, and thickness as the usual steel 
busk or rib. By this means he is able to 
bring the magnetic power irito constant 
contact with all the vital organs, and yet 
preserve that symnfetry and lightness so 
desirable in a good corset. It is affirmed 
by professional men that there is hardly 
a disease which Electricity and Magnet- 
ism will not benefit or cure. '^ , ■ 
Dr. Wm. A, Hammond, of Ifew 
^^^K. VilfJMIIi I l\\k?>M'l' '/ft York, late Surgeon-Generalof the U.S., 
^Hfe flUTll lilf \m^ 'I / I *" eminent authority, publishes almost 
^P^ f /Isll I -^»^ I I miraculous cures made by him, atfd aSr ■ 
p^ Mi*\jJHll J^i'^ I 1 medical men daily practice- the same.'* 

Ask your own physician. The cut gives 
* a fair ^presentation of the corset, which should be worn daily in plape of the ordinary one, 
uid will always do good, never harm. There is no shock or sensation whatever felt m weali 
ing them, while benefit quickly follows. Being made with better material and workmanshlB 
•jlan any corset sold, they will outwear three of those commonly used. In ordering be !•»»■ 
ital to send pxact waist meaSDrp. and mention this publication. They are all of the same 
quality, differing only in size. 'The material is white, fine in texture, beautifully embroid- 
ered and trimmed. 'Wc will send it on trial, postpaid, on receipt of $3, which,.will be returned 
Sf not as represented. Inclose lo cts. extra and we guarantee safe delivery. We will send it 
by express. C.O.D. at your expense, with privilege of examination— but expressage adds con- 
' sidcrahly to your cost. Or request your nearest Dry Goods or Fancy Store to obtain om for 
'"u, and be sure Dr. Scott's name is qn the corset. Remittances should bo mad* payaSlt to 
lO. A. SCOTT, 84a ISroadway, New Yorlc. They can be made in Checks, Drafts, 
i«Dffice Orders, Currency, or Stamps. Libehal Discount to the Trade.- Aeentf 
yii^ in every Town, IMT Send for circular of Dr. Scoti> Electric Hair Brush.' 



Whether you live 

"in Colorado or Pennsylva" 

nla, you can, with the utmost"" 

'satisfaction, purchase the newest"" 

'goods for the lowest city jjrices at the^ 



GRAND DEPOT, 

The Largest • 

'DRY GOODS 

AND 

Outfitting House of 




PHILADELPHIA,^^^ 
JOHN 

WANAMAKER. 



WEST#EAST 



lOnly the exact goods 
\even then, if not as ex- 
\exchanged, or the 
Samples or prices, 
.ordering, mailed 
^•'^ceipt of postal card 
desired, and no 



I 



ordered are sent, andJ 
pected, are willingly/ 
money refunded, 
with directions for^»- 
postpaid upon re- 
specifying what Isj 
obligation to pur- 



chase If prices are not satisfactory. 



Adaress MAIL DEPARTMENT 

„ ForSamples and Supplies, 



♦> 



NBSTLB'S MILK FOOD 




fi-<^DE 



Is the MOST POPXTL^fe B^OOD the World Over for 

INFANTS AND INVAIIDS. 

IT qontains only Milk, Wheaten Bread Cnist, and Cane Sugar, and requires 
ONLY WATER to prepare it for, use, thus.romaving all the danger of, qow's 
milk, so frequently impure, diseased, and sour. 

'■ * • '^" 

FOR INFAHTS 

It makes finD.JleBh and-,musole, tough bone, keeps the bowels well regulated, 
the^ blood in a healthy condition, and' agrees with a "larg^ percentage th&n 
any other artificial food. ' 

« F^BM INVALIDS 

It' is largely used in Nervous Diseases, Gastralgia, Chronic Catarrh, and 
tWcer of the Stomach, Intfammation of the Bp\**els, Indigestioh and Dyspep- 
sia, Dyaintery and Diarrhea, Typhoid and other fevers. * Experience has 
shown that nothing will digest more easily, keep up the strength more 
uiniformly, worry. the stomaeh less, and permit it to recover its normal tone 
more quickly than ihU Food. It is often retained on the atomaWi when ^ery 
tfiinff else, is ryectei. Ask your physician about it, or send for a pamphlet 
giying full d^ails. • ,,„ *!' 

r • NESTLE'S CONDENSED .SWiSS MILI% 

Should be oj>> every breakfast^table in the land. We guarantee it to be frae 
flotfi all adulteration, and the richest milk in the market. It gives a richness 
tod smoothness to coffee almost equ^ to pure cre^m. Shose. who have used 
the Milk Eood will enjoy the Condensed Ml|JtJilso,' and know it cTan be relied 
upon. For sale by all first-class Druggists^n'd Grocers. 

'_^,_;,, • thoma| leemin"^*& c#. ^ . 

/jSto. 3-8 CoLiiEO-E 2P3;,A-CB3, "ptrm-^Nr': ^oe.»- Cit*, , 

SOLE AGENTS FOE HENRI NESTLfi, VE'^Y, SWITZKRLAKt). ? ' 



l^OTICES OF THE PRESS, 



Virginia is no* only the mother of presidents, but Is the parent of good living, ffer 
women of all ranl^.are famous tu housekeepers. — N. 0. Picayune. 

The book is Adited by the granddavighter of Patrick Henry, and herself one of the 
famous housekee .ers of Virginia. We notice many historical names in the list of contrib- 
utors.— Western (iTj/.) Oilviea. 

If two hundrt4 and fifty matrons of Virginia can not teach their sisters in other states 
something these s'sters don't know about housekeeping, then com bread Is a failure, and 
Lady Martha Washmgton a free and independent American myth.— CAici^o Inter-Ocean. 

TuE author places within reach of all American housekeepers thaiexoellent domestic 
principles and practices which have long distinguished the homes of the " Old Dominion." 
— Cincinnati (0.) Commercial. 

Thkse recipes w no furnished the author by the best housekeepers of Virginia, and are 
the garnered experi mee of the last century. — Lyncliini/rg Virginian. ' > 

It is destined tc create a sensation among housekeepers all over the Union. It fairly 
makes one's mouth water to read over the recipes.— Poris (ICy.) True Eentuckian. 

' It places within the reach of every American housekeeper the principles and practices 
of the homes of thei commonwealth. Many of the recipes have been handed down from 
mother to daughter ^r four or five generations, a,ud have successfully withstood the rivalry 
of modem dishes.—., osttm (Maai.) Tramcripl. 

This book mustl, levitably sell well, not only in Virginia, but wherever are found any 
of the strayed -off ^Idren of the dear old mother of presidents. — Louisville Cowier- 
Joumal. 

Ko more valuable contribution has ever been made to the domestic literature of 
America. — ^picNmrg Press. 

It is the compilation of valuable recipes, furnished by nearly three hundred famous 
housewives in the " Old Dominion." — Memphis Appeal. 

iT^laces within the reach of every American housekeeper the principles and practices 
of the famous Virginia homes, a 8yst"m justly pronounced by the throngs of admirers who 
have gathered from all quarters of the Union, around the generous boards of Virginia's 
illustrious sons, as the veky pekfbotion of soihestic aet.— JVeui Orleans Some Journal. 

Ok all the arts khown to the race, the art of housekeeping is beyond dispute most 
useful, and in the practice of this art Virginians have always justly claimed preeminence 
(Tver the rrat of mankind.— jSwJftmiwKf ( Va.) Despatch. 

This is a valuabl^ book, setting forth the most admirable system of good living known 
in our country. — Mer^kie Ledger. 

They kaiow how to cook more things thau com cake in Vlrsinia, and this book gives 
the full scope of old ^Virginia Cookery.— Si. i<Hrf« Bepuilican. 

It contains the essence and mysteries of " pid Virginia" housewifery. Virginia cook- 
ing has always been famous. If she Is the mother of presidents, she is equally the home of 
good Uving.— Editorii'l Notice in Cinemnati, Commercial. 

Fkom two hundred and fifty of Virginia's best housekeepers this volume has been 
prepared, and in it is found the conijensed wisdom of'Vieginia women, who have 

FUBNISHED BEAINS TO tiEOINIA STATESMEN AKD WaKEIOES.— JJJC/lWMWld (.Va.) Doipatch. 



MANY DISTINGUISHED AMERICAN "WOMEN 

HAVE PAID BEATTTIFUL TRIBUTKS TO TUIS BOOK; AMONCi TUB SUMBER AKK: 

Mrs. President R. B. Hayes Washington City. 

Mils. CiuKF Justice M. 11. Waite Washington City. 

Mrs. Seckktary oy State W. M. Evartj? Washington City. 

Mrs. U. S. Senator George H. Pendleton Ohio. 

Mrs. U. S. Senator M. C. Butler South Carolina. 

Mrs. Governor George B. McClellan iVV-o Jersey. 

Mrs. U. S. Senator John B. Gordon Ge^yrgia. 

Mrs. Governor F. T. Nicholls Louiaiana. 

Mrs. U. S. Senator A. G. Thurman Ohio. 



From the wife of Chief Justice M. R. Waite: 

Washington City, >b. 20, 1879. 

I do not hesitate to say that in my opinion it is an excellc it guide to the 

art of cooking. 

M E. WAITE. 



From the wife of Goveknor F. T. Nicholls, Louisiana : 

New Orleans, Feb. 26, 1879. 
I regard "Housekeeping in Old Virginia" as a sensible and valuable book. 

CAPvRA G NICHOLLS. 



From the wife of U. S. Senator Allen C!. Thvp.man, of Ohio ; ; 

Washington City, i^'eb. 20, 1879. 
I have carefully examined the work, and think very highly of it. I do not 
know of any book of the kind more likely to be useful. 

Mrs. A. G. THURMAN. 



From the wife of Ex-Gov. and Ex-U. S. Senator John W. Steven^dn. of Kentucky: 

Covington, Ky., Feb. 28, 1879. ' 
The sound coramon'sense of Virginia women has ever been noted, and they | 
have won for themselves an unequaled reputation for their domestic accomplish-^ j 
ments. This work is a valuable addition to the domestic ".iterature of our? 
country. I have tried some of the recipes, and cordially indorse the book. 
It is also handsomely bound and printed. 

Mrs. J. W. PTKVENSON. 



Digitized by the Internet Arciiive 
in 2010 



littp://www.arcliive.org/details/housekeepinginolOOtyre 



Executive Mansion, Washington, Dec. 20, 1878. 

1 am very much pleased with it. 

Mrs. R. B. HAYES. 



From the wife of Secretary of State W. M. Evarts: 

Washington City, Dec. 19, 1878. 
Every lady who desires to learn some of the secrets which have made so 
enviable a reputation for the matrons of "Old Virginia" should possess this 
book. 

Mrs. W. M. EVARTS. 



From the wife of U. S. Senator George H. Pendleton, Ohio : 

Cincinnati, Dec. 14, 1878. 
Mrs. Tyree's new cook-book, "Housekeeping in Old Virginia," containing 
the garnered experience of most of the noted housewives of the "Old Dominion," 
I find admirable, and regard it truly as a valuable work. 
Please send me two more copies. 

ALICE KEY PENDLETON. 



From the wife of Governor George B. McClellan, New Jersey : 

Trenton, N. J., Dec. 28, 1878. 
I believe this book contains just what American housewives need and will 

appreciate. 

E. M. McCLELLAN. 



From the wife of U. S. Senator M. C. Butler, South Carolina: 

Washington Citt, Dec. 23, 1878. 
The matrons of the "Old Dominion'' have won an enviable reputation for 
their superb cooking and their delightful housekeeping, and the new book — 
"Housekeeping in Old Virginia" — compiled from choice recipes, furnished by 
two hundred and fifty of Virginia's best-known women, will, I am sure, gladden 
the hearts of the housewives of our country. 

Mrs. M. C. BUTLER. 



From the wife of U. S. Senator John B. Gordon, Georgia : 

Washington City, Dec. 18, 1878. 
If the housewives of our country will be guided by this book, I am satisfi'^d 
that dyspepsia and kindred diseases will be less common in the land, and at the 
same time they will learn how to prepare the food for which Virginians are no 

celebrated. 

Mrs. J. B. GORDON. 



A Reprint of the Original 

Favorite Recipes Press, Inc. © MCMLXV 

Post Office Box 18324 

Louisville, Kentuck\' 40218 



HOUSEKEEPING 



IN OLD VIRGINIA. 



CONTAINING 



Contributions from Two Hundred and Fifty of Virginia's 

Noted Housewives, Distinguished for their Skill 

in the Culinary Art and other Branches 

of Domestic Economy. 



EDITED BY 



MARION CABELL TYREE. 



"Who can find a virtuous woman? for her price is far above rubies. . . . She 
lookuth well to the ways of her household, and eateth not the bread of idleness." — 
P>ov, xxxi, lo, 27. 



LOUISVILLE, KY.: 
JOHN P. MORTON AND COMPANY. 

1879 



COPYRIGHTED BY 

JOHN p. MORTON AND COMPANY. 

1879. 



GENERAL CONTENTS. 



PiOl 



Preface 7 

List of Ccntrihutors 11 

Bread 19 

Coffee, Tea, and Chocolate 61 

Milk and Butter 65 

Soup QS 

Oysters and other Shell Fish 85 

Fish 97 

Game 107 

Meats 114 

Beef and Yeal 136 

Mutton and Lamb 168 

Poultry 176 

Salads 190 

Sauces 200 

Brunswick Stews, Guinho, and Side Dishes 211 

Eggs 232 

Vegetables 238 

Pickles and Catsups 255 

Cake 304 



VI CONTENTS. 



PAOB 



Icing , .348 

Gingerbread 350 

Small Cakes 353 

Puddings 365 

Pudding Sauces 40J 

Pastiy 404 

Fritters and Pancakes 416 

Jelly, Blanc-mange, Charlotte Russe, Baked Custard, 

Creams, and Miscellaneous Desserts 417 

Ice Cream and Frozen Custard 430 

Fruit Desserts 442 

Preserves and Fruit Jellies 443 

Confectionery 458 

Wines 461 

Beverages, Cordials, etc 468 

The Sick-Room — Diet and Remedies for the Sick. . . 476 

House-cleaning, etc 497 

Recipes for Restoring Old Clothes, Setting Colors, 

Removing Stains, etc 505 

Miscellaneous Recipes 508 



PREFACE. 



ViKGiNiA, or the Old Dominion, as her chOdron delight to 
call her, has always been famed for the style of her living. 
Taught by the example of her royal colonial governors, and 
the numerous adherents of King Charles, who brought hither 
in their exile the graces and luxuriousness of his brilliant 
court, she became noted among the colonies for tJie princely 
hospitality of her [)eople and for the beauty and richness of their 
living. But when at length her great son in the House of 
Burgesses sounded the cry of war, and her peo[)lc made luiste 
to gird themselves for the long struggle, her daugliters, not to 
be outdone either in services or patriotism, set about at once 
the inauguration of a plan of rigid retrenchment and reform in 
the domestic economy, while at the same time exhibiting to 
their sisters a noble example of devotion and self-sacrifice. 

Tearing the glittering arms of King George from their side- 
boards, and casting them, with their costly plate and jewels, as 
offerings into the lap of the Continental Congress, they intro- 
duced in their homes that new style of living in which, discard- 
ing all the showy extravagance of the old, and retaining only 



VIU PREFACE. 

its inexpensive graces, they succeeded in perfecting that system 
which, surviving to this day, has ever been noted for its beaix- 
tiful and elegant simplicity. 

This system, which combines the thrifty frugality of New 
England with the less rigid st3'le of Carolina, has been justly 
pronounced, by the throngs of admirers who have gathered from 
all quarters of the Union around the generous boards of her 
illustrious sons, as the very perfection of domestic art. 

It is the object of the compiler of this book, for she does not 
claim the title of author, to bring within the reach of every 
American housekeeper who may desire it, the douiestic prin- 
cii)les and practices of these famous Virginia homes. In doing 
this she has not sought to pursue the plan adopted by so many 
authors of such books — to depend upon her own authorship for 
her rule. She confesses that in this matter her labors have 
been largely editorial. 

Through a long life it has been her good fortune to be a fre- 
quent visitor, and often the intimate guest and kinswoman, at 
many of these homes ; and she has sought, by the opportunities 
thus afforded, and guided by her own extensive experience as a 
housekeeper, to gather and oelcut from chese numerous sources 
those things which seemed to her best and most useful to the 
practical housewife, and which, carefully observed, would bring 
the art within reach of all who have the ambition to acquire it. 

It will be seen that she is indebted to near 250 contributors 
to her book Among these will be found many names famou» 



PREFACE. IX 

through the land. Associated with them will be discovered 
others of less national celebrity, but who have acquired among 
their neighbors an equally merited distinction for the beautiful 
order and delightful cuisine of their homes. 

The labors of the wi'iter have been greatly lightened by the 
kindness of these contributors. And she desires in this pubHc 
way to renew her thanks for the aid which they have given her, 
but even mere for the goodness which prompts them, at cost of 
their sensitiveness, to allow her to append their names to the 
recii)es which they furnish. 

The book, after great care in its preparation, is now offered 
to the public with much confidence. All that is here presented 
has been so thoroughly tested, and approved by so many of the 
best housekeepers in Virginia, that she feels it must meet with 
a cordial and very general reception at tjie hands of all accom- 
plished housewives throughout the land, and will supply a long- 
felt and real need. 

If she shall thus succeed in disseminating a knowledge of the 
practice of the viost admirable system of domestic art known in 
our country y if she sliall succeed in lightening the labors of the 
housewife by placing in her reach a guide which will be found 
always trusty and reliable / if she sliall thus make her tasks 
lighter and home-life sweeter; if she shall succeed in contribut- 
ing something to the health of American children by instvict- 
ing their mothers in the art of preparing light and wholesome 
and palatable food ; if she, above cdl, shall succeed in laaking 

American homes more attractive to A merican husbands, and spare 
1* 



X I'liEFACK 

them a resort to hotels and saloons for those simple luxuries luhich 
their wives know not how to jM'ovide / if she shall thus add to the 
comfort, to the health and happy contentment of these, she will 
have proved in some measure a public benefactor, and will feel 
amply repaid for all the labor her work has cost, 

MARION CABELL TYREE. 

Lyncubcro, Va , January. 1^77. 



LIST OF CONTKIBUTOKS. 



Mks. Robert Alexander Fredericksburg, Va. 

Mus. John J. Ambler Lynchburg 

Mrs. Judge Anderson Lexington. 

Mrs. Charlotte Armstrong Richmond. 

Miss Nannie Averett Amherst Co. 

" Mozis Addums." Richmond. 

Mrs. R. T. H. Adams Lynchlnirg. 

Mrs. John T. Anderson Virginia, 

Mrs. John Thompson Brown Nelson Co, 

Mrs. Benjamin J. Barbour Orange Co. 

Mrs. Judge Barton Fredericksl)urg, 

Miss Mary Bella Beale RichmoncL 

Mrs. Orville Bell Liberty, 

Mrs. C. S. Bliss Lyncli1)urg. 

Mrs. S. Brady Wheeling, West Va. 

Mrs. Emma Breckinridge Fincastle. 

Mrs. Julia Breckinridge " 

Mrs. Brinckerhopp Fredericksburg 

Mrs, John Brooke Lexington. 

Mrs. M, B Warrenton, Fauquier Co, 

Mrs. Bruce Virginia, 

Mrs. ]\Iarcus B. Buck Front Royal. Warren Co. 

Mits. Armstead Burwell Franklin Co, 



Xll LIST OF CONTKEBUTORS. 

Mrs. C/'harles W. Burwell Ellicot City, Md 

Mrs. Wm. Burwell Georgia. 

Mrs. Charles Button Lynchburg 

Dr. Burney Montgomery, Ala 

Mrs. George A. Burks Lynchburg. 

Mrs. Broaddus Mecklenburg Co. 

Mrs. Byrd Viiginia. 

Mrs. William Cameron Petersburg 

Mrs. Clara Cabell Nelson Co. 

Mrs. Louis W. Cabell Buckingham Co 

Mrs. Margaret C. Cabell " '* 

Mrs. H. Coalter Cabkll Richmond. 

Mrs. Mary C. Campbell Biiltimore, Md. 

Mrs. Thos. Campbell Bedford Co, 

Mrs. Wm. C.\mpbell " " 

Mrs. Eliza H. Carrington Halifax Co. 

Mrs. Paul Carrington " " 

Mrs. Fannie Carrington Charlotte Co. 

Mrs. Henry Carrington " " 

Mrs. Tiieo. M. Carson Lynchburg 

Mr. Edward Camm " 

Mrs. Fannie Chalmers " 

Mrs. Addison Cobbs Charleston, West Va. 

Mrs. Alice Coleman Halifax Co. 

Mrs. Dr. Coleman Williamsburg. 

Mrs. John L. Coles Northumberland Co 

Mrs. Peyton Coles Albemarle Co, 

Mrs. Tucker Coles " " 

Mrs. Raleigh Colston Richmond. 

Mrs. H. P. Chew Fredericksburg. 

Mrs. Camillus Christian Lynchburg, 

Dr. E. a. Craighill 

Mrs. D. Cone Warren Co 



LIST OF OONTKIBUTOUS. XIU 

Mks. Davis Chtsterfield C!o 

Mks. Robert J. Davis Lynchburg. 

Mrs. Maby M. Dame Danville. 

Mrs. John B. Dangerfield Alexandria. 

Mrs. Addison M. Davies Lynchbuig 

Mrs. Horatio Davis Pittsylvania Co. 

Mrs. Frank Deane Lynchburg 

Mrs. Jos. Deans Gloucester Co. 

Mrs. Judge Asa Dickinson Prince Edward Co. 

Mrs. Melville Dunn Richmond. 

Mrs. Andrew Dunn Petersburg 

Mrs. Duke Suffolk Co. 

Miss D. D Norfolk. 

Miss Didlake Lynchburg. 

Mrs. Maria Edmonds Prince Edward Co. 

Mrs. John T. Edwards Lynchburg. 

Mrs. Dr. Early " 

Mrs. Early " 

Mrs. J. D. Ewing Harrisonburg. 

Mrs. Elam Virginia. 

Mrs. Fitz Hugh " 

Mrs. F. B. Ficklin Fredericksburg. 

Mrs. F. F. Fitzgerald Farmville. 

Mrs. J. H. Figgat Fincastle. 

Mrs. Col. Forsberg Lynchburg. 

Mrs. Graves Kentucky. 

Mrs. Caroline Garland Lynchburg. 

Mrs. Mary L. Garland. " 

Mrs. John F. Gardner Nelson Co. 

Mrs. Judge Geo. H. Gilmer Pittsylvania Co. 

Mrs. F. D. Goodwin .Wytheville. 

Mrs. Judge Goolrick Fredericksburg 

Mrs. Janb V. Goolbick " 



XIV LIST OF CONTKIBDTORS. 

Mrs. E. p. Goggin Lynchburg 

Mus. Susan Goggin Bedford Co 

Mrs. Newton Gordon Lynchburg. 

Mrs Isabella Gilmer " 

Mrs. Isabella Harrison Charles City Co. 

Mrs. Elvira Henry Charlotte Co. 

Mr;- E. Winston Henry " " 

Mrs. Mary G. Harding Staunton. 

Mrs. Fred. Hickey Lynchburg. 

Mrs. John W. Holt " 

Mrs. Ann Holt Liberty. 

Mrs. Ferdinand C. Hutter Lynchburg. 

Mrs. J. P. Hubbard Shepherdstown, West Va 

Mrs. Wm. L. Hyland Parkersburg, West Va. 

Mrs. Edward Ingle Roanoke Co. 

Mrs. J. J. Irby New Orleans, La. 

Mrs. Joseph M. Jones Kentucky. 

Mrs. Dr. Jones Bedford Co. 

Mrs. Arthur Johns Northampton Co. 

Mrs. Col. Johnson Lexington. 

Mrs. J. Johnson Abingdon. 

Mrs. Thomas L. Johnson Lynchl>urg. 

Mrs. David Kent Pulaski Co. 

Mrs. D. B. Kinckle Lynchburg. 

Mrs. Kinsolving Halifax Co. 

Mrs. Knox Fredericksburg. 

Mrs. Dr. Henry Latham Lynchburg. 

Mr. K Norfolk. 

Mrs. L. D. Leighton Petersburg. 

Mrs. Col. Augustine Leftwich Lynchburg, 

Mrs. Gen. Robert E. Lee " Arlington," Westmoreland Co 

Miss Mildred C. Lee Lexmgton 

Mrs. Gov. John Letcher •* 



LIST OF CONTRIBUTORS. XV 

Mks. Dr. Robkkt T. Le.mmon Campbell Co 

Mrs. Andrew Lewis Harrisonburg 

Mrs. James Langhorne Lynchburg 

Mrs. John A. Langhorne Montgomery Co 

Mrs. Nannie A. Lanoiioune Lynchburg 

Mrs. Richard T. Lacy " 

Mrs. M. L 

Mrs. Geo. D. Lawrence Miss. 

Mrs. Wm. H. Little Fredericksburg. 

Mrs. J. D. L Lynchburg. 

L. D. L Albemarle Co, 

Mrs. Gov. Mauye Fredericksburg. 

Mrs. John Mason " 

Mrs. O. Massie Brooklyn, N. Y. 

Mrs. Patrick Massie Nelson Co. 

Mrs. Sarah Meem Abingdon. 

Mrs. John F. Miller Lynchburg. 

M^s. Ch\rles L. C. Minor Blacksburg. 

Mrs. C. C. McPhail ..Charlotte Co. 

Mrs. John R. McDaniel Lynchburg 

Mrs. Mary McNutt Prince Edward Co 

Mrs. R. K. Meade Petersburg. 

Mrs. "Wm. H. Mosby Amherst Co. 

Mrs. Alice Murrel Lynchburg. 

Mrs. Wm. McFarland Missouri 

Mrs. C. V. McGee Ala 

Mrs. McGavock Pulaski Co. 

Gen. M Virginia. 

Mrs. James J. Moore Richmond. 

Mrs. Geo, Newton Norfolk. 

Miss Fannie Nelson Yorktown 

Mrs. Geo. Nichols Bedford Co 

Mrs. Gen. F. T. Nichols New Orleans, La 



XVI LIST OF CONTKIUUTORS. 

Mrs. Charles NoRVELii Lynchburg 

Miss Norwood Richmond 

Mrs. Robert L. Owen Lynchburg 

Mrs. Geo. W. Palmer Saltville 

Mrs. R. L. Page Norfolk. 

Mrs. Datld Pierce WythevilK 

Mrs. John D. Powell Portsmouth. 

Mrs. Wm. Ballard Preston Montgomeiy Co 

Mrs. Gen. Robert Preston " " 

Mrs. Jas. Preston " " 

Mrs. Preston Virginia* 

Mrs. Annis E. Preston Lynchburg. 

Mrs. Richard Pollard " 

Mrs. James F. Payne " 

Miss Eliza Payne " 

Mrs. Annie Phillips Fredericksburg. 

Mrs. Edmund H. Pendleton Cincinnati, Ohio. 

Mrs. Price Charlotte Co. 

Mrs. John H. Parker Chesterfield Co. 

Mrs. Reid Norfolk. 

Mrs. Mattie Reid Winchester. 

Mrs. David S. Read Roanoke Co. 

Mrs. Wm. C. Rives Albemarle Co 

Mrs. J. Henry Rives Lynchburg. 

Mrs. Roane. " 

Mrs. J. H. Robinson " 

Mrs. W. Russell Robinson Richmond. 

Mrs. Dr. Edward T. Robinson " 

Mrs. John Roberts Fredericksburg. 

Mrs. E. M. Ruggles " 

Mrs. Dr. Sale Liberty. 

Mrs. Geo. D. Saunders Buckingham Co 

Mrs. Ann Saunders Lynchburg. 



LIST OF CONTREBUTOKS. XVU 

Mks. Jame9 a. Seddon Goochland Co 

Mrs. Dr. Semple A.la. 

Mrs. H. H. Service Alexandria 

Mrs. J. W. Shields Richmond. 

Mrs. Jas. "W". Shields King Geo. Co. 

Mrs. H. T. Silvertiiorn Lynchburg 

Mrs. Wm. A. Strother " 

Mr. Wm. A. Strother " 

Mrs. John W. Stone " 

Mrs. John F. Slaughter " 

Miss Lillie Slaughter " 

Mrs. Kate Slaughter " 

Mrs. Judge Spence " 

Mrs. Henderson Suter Liberty. 

Mrs. Harriet Stansbury New Orleans, La- 

Mrs. Shannon Miss 

Miss Ellen Shute New Orleans, La 

Miss Rebecca Smith Norfolk. 

Mrs. Charles Sharp " 

Mrs. Sparks Virginia 

Mrs. Col. Smith Pittsylvania Co 

Mrs. a. H. M. Tat-iaferro Orange Co 

Mrs. Mary W. Taylor Cami)bell Co 

Mrs. Ma.tor Thos. L. Taylor Camplw'll C. H 

Miss Julia Thompson Williamsburg. 

Mrs. C. L. Thompson Richmond. 

Mrs. J. Hanson Thomas Baltimore, Md. 

Mrs. Eli Tutwiler Lexington. 

Mrs. Samuet, Tyree Lynchburg 

Mrs. John H. Tvkee " 

Mrs. Jas. Taylor Fredericksburg 

Miss Sdmonta Taylor Oi-ange Co. 

Mrs. Tucker Virginia 



XVlll LIST OF CONTRIBUTORS. 

Mrs. Judge Watson Abingdon 

Mrs. Dr. Thos. Walker Lynchburg 

Mrs. Col. W 

Mrs. Col. Rorert E. Withers Wythcvillc. 

Mrs Phuip T. Withers Lynchburg. 

Mrs. Dr. R. W. Withers Campbell Co. 

Mrs. Edmund Withers Nelson Co. 

Mrs. Dr. Wingpield Maryland 

Mrs. R. M. C. Wingfield Portsmouth, 

Mrs. J. C. Wheat Winchester. 

Mrs. Judge Wharton Liberty. 

Miss Emily Whitehead Norfolk, 

Mrs. Robert Whitehead Nelson Co 

Mrs. John M. Warwick Lynchburg. 

Mrs. Wm. N. Welkord " 

Mr. Philip Withers " 

Miss Kate Wilson " 

Dr. Thos. L. Walker " 

Mias Nannie S. LANGiioiiNE •• 



HOUSEKEEPING IN OLD VIRGINIA. 



BREAD. 

Bread is so vitally important an element in oui- nourishment 
that I have assigned to it the first place in my work. Truly, as 
Frederika Bremer says, " when the bread rises in the oven, the 
heart of the housewife rises with it," and she might have added 
that the heart of the housewife sinks in sympathy with the 
sinking bread. 

I would say to housewives, be not daunted by one failure, nor 
by twenty. Resolve that you will have good bread, and never 
cease striving after this result till you have effected it. If ]r)er- 
sons without brains can accomplish this, why cannot you ? I 
woiild recommend that the housekeeper acquire the practice as 
well as the theory of bread-making. In this way, she will be 
able to give more exact directions to her cook and to more 
readily detect and rectify any blemish in the bread. Besides, if 
circumstances should throw her out of a cook for a short time, 
she is then prepared for the emergency. In this country 
fortunes are so rapidly made and lost, the vicissitudes of life 
are so sudden, that we know not what a day may bring forth. 
It is not uncommon to see elegant and refined women brought 
suddenly face to face with emergencies which their practical 
knowledge of household economy and their brave heai-ts «nable 
them to firmly meet and overcome. 

To return to the bread question, however. Good floui' is an 
Indispensable requisite to good bread. Flour, whether old or 



20 BREAD. 

neWj should always be sunned and aired before oeing used. In 
the morning, get out the flour to be made up at night for next 
morning's breakfast. Sift it in a tray and put it out in the sun, 
or, if the day is damp, set it near the kitchen fire. Only experi 
ence will enable you to be a good judge of flour. One test is tc 
rub the dry flour between your fingers, and if the grains feel 
round, it is a sign that the flour is good. If after trying a 
barrel of flour twice, you find it becomes wet and sticky, after 
being made up of the proper consistency, you had better then 
return it to your grocer. 

The best flour is worthless without good yeast. Yeast made 
up in the morning ought to be fit for \ise at night. It should 
be foamy and frothy, with a scent slightly like ammonia. After 
closely following the directions for yeast-making, given in the 
subsequent pages, the bread will be apt to succeed, if the flour 
employed is good. 

There is a great art in mixing bread, and it is necessary to 
observe a certain rotation in the pi-ocess. To make a small 
quantity of bread, first sift one quart of flour; into that sift a 
teaspoonful of salt, next rub in an Irish jJ'^tato, boiled and 
mashed fine, then add a piece of lard the size of a walnut, and 
next a half teacup of yeast in which three teaspoonfuls of 
white sugar have been stirred. (Under no circumstances use 
soda or saleratus in your light dough.) Then make into a soft 
doxigh with cold watei in summer, and lukewarm in winter. 
Knead without intermission for half an hour, bij the clock 
Otherwise five minutes appear to be a half hour when bread is 
bfing kneaded or beaten. Then place it in a stone crock, greased 
with lard at the bottom, and set it to rise. In summer, apply no 
artificial heat to it, but set it in a cool place. As bread rises 
much more quickly in summer than in winter, you must make 
allowance for this difference, during the respectivo seasons. 
The whole process, including both the tii'st and second lising, may 
be accomplished in seven or eight hours in summer, though this 
will be regulated partly by the flour, as some kinds of flour rise 



BRKAD. 21 

much more quickly than others. In summer you may make it 
up at nine o'clock p.m., for an eight o'clock breakfast next 
morning, but in winter, make it up at seven p.m., and then set it 
on a shelf under which a lighted coal-oil lamp is placed. If you 
can have a three-cornered shelf of slate or sheet-iron, placed in a 
corner of the kitchen, just above the bread block, it will be all 
the better, though a common wooden shelf, made very thin, will 
answer, whei-e you cannot get the other. The coal-oil lamp 
underneath without running the risk of burning the shelf (it 
wooden), will keep the bi-ead gently heated all night, and will 
answer the double purpose of keeping a light burning, which 
most persons like to do at night, and which they can do with 
scarcely any expense, by using a coal-oil lamp. 

Never knead bread a second time in the morning, as this 
ruins it. Handle lightly as ])0.ssible, make into the desired 
sliapes and put into the moulds in which it is to be baked. 
Grease your hands before doing this, so as to grease the loaf or 
each roil as you put it in, or tdse dip a feather in lard and pass 
lightly ov'er the bread just before putting it in the oven to 
bake. Let it be a little warmer during the second rise than 
during the first. Always sha])e and put in the moulds two 
hours before breakfast. If hot bread is desired for dinner, re- 
serve part of the breakfast dougli, keeping it in the kitchen in 
winter, and in the refrigerator in summer till two liours before 
dinner. 

In baking, set the bread on the floor of the stove or range, 
never on the shelf. Always turn up the damper before baking 
any kind of bread. As you set the bread in the stove, lay a 
ph.'ce of stiff writing paper over it to keep it from browning be- 
fore heating through. Leave the door ajar a few minutes, then 
remove the paper and shut the door. When the top of the loa. 
is a light amber color, put back the paper that the bread may 
not bi-own too much while thoroughly baking. Turn the mould 
uroTind so that each part may be exposed to equal heat. Havo 
an empty baking pai> on the shelf above the bread, to prevent it 



22 BREAD. 

from blistering : some persons fill the pan with water, but I think 
this is a bad plan, as the vapor injures the bread. When thor- 
oughly done, wrap the bread a few moments in a clean, thick, 
oiead towel and send to the table with a napkin over it, to be 
kept on till each person has taken his seat at table. 

I would suggest to housekeepers to have made at a tinner's, 
a sheet-iron shape for bread, eight inches long, four and one-lialf 
inches wide, and five and one-half deep. This is somewhat like 
a brickbat in shape, only deeper, and is very desirable for bread 
that is to be cut in slices, and also for bread that is to be pulled 
off in slices. A quart of Hour will make eight large rolls, six 
inches high, for this mould, and tliree or four tiirnovei's. It is a 
nice plan after making out the eight rolls to roll them witli 
greased hands till each one will reach across the pan (four nnd 
one-half inches), making eight slices of bread which will pull off 
beautifully when well done, and thus save the task of slicing 
with a knife. It requires an hour to bake this bread properly. 

Do not constantly make bread in the same shapes : each 
morning, try to have some variation. Plain light bread dough 
niay be made into loaves, rolls, twist, turnovers, light biscuit, 
etc., and these changes of shape make a pleasant and appetizing 
variety in the appearance of the table. The addition of thi-ee 
eggs to plain light bread dough will enable you to make French 
rolls, muffins, or Sally-Lunn of it. As bread is far more appe- 
tizing, baked in [n-etty shapes, I would suggest the snow-ball 
shape for muffins and egg bread. Very pretty iron shapes 
(eight or twelve in a group, joined together) may be procured 
from almost any tinner. 

If you should have indifferent flour of which you cannot got 
lid, bear in mind that it will sometimes make excellent beaten 
biscuit when it will not make good liglit bread. In making 
beaten buscuit, always i)ut one teaspoonful of salt, a piece of lard 
the size of an egg, and a teacup of milk to a quart of flour, 
adding euougli cold water to make a stitf dough : no other 
iiiirredients are admissibli;. M;ike llu; doiii/ii much stitfer tliiuj 



UREAD. 23 

for other breads, beat steadily a half houi', hy the clock. Cut with 
a biscuit cutter or shape by hand, being careful to have the 
shape of each alike and perfect. Make them not quite half an 
inch thick, as they rise in baking. Do not let them touch each 
other in the pan, and let the oven be very hot. It is well not 
to have beaten biscuit and light bread baked at the same time, 
as they require different degrees of heat. When two kinds of 
bread are required, try to have two such as require the same 
amount of heat. Egg bread and corn muffins require the same 
degree of heat as beaten biscuit, while Sally-Lunn and muffins 
need the same as light bread. 

There is no reason why the poor man should not have as well 
prepared and palatable food as the wealthy, for, by care and 
pains, the finest bread may be made of the simplest materials, 
and surely the loving hands of the poor man's wife and daughter 
will take as much pains to make his bread nice and light as hire- 
lings will do for the wealthy. The mistake generally made by per- 
sons in restricted circumstances is to make too great a use of soda 
bread, which is not only less wholesome, but is more expensive 
than light bread or beaten biscuit, as it I'equires more ingredi- 
ents. The bread, cotfee and meat, which constitute the poor 
man's breakfast, properly cooked, furnish a meal fit for a ])rince. 

The furnishing of the kitchen is so important that I must here 
say a few words on the subject. First, the housekeeper must 
have a good stove or range, and it is well for her to have the 
dealer at hand when it is put up, to see that it draws well. 
Besides the utensils furnished with the range or stove, she must 
provide every kitchen utensil needed in cooking. She must 
have a kitchen safe, — a bread block in the corner, furnished 
with a heavy iron beater ; trays, sifters (with iron rims) steam- 
ers, colanders, a porcelain preserving kettle, perforated skim- 
mers and spoons, ladles, long-handled iron forks and spoona, 
sharp knives and skewers, graters, egg beaters (the Dover is 
the best), j^lenty of extra bread pans, dippers and tins of every 
kind, iron moulds for egg bread and muffins, v.'ash pans, tea 



24 BREAD. 

towels, bread towel.s, and hand towels, plates, kniA'es, forks and 
si)oons for use of the servants, a pepper box, salt box and 
dredge box (filled), a match safe, and last, but not least, a clock. 
Try as far as possil)Ie to have the utensils of metal, rather thau 
of wood. Ln cases where yo\i carmot have cold and hot water 
conveyed into the kitchen, always keep on the stove a kettle fi 
liot water, with a clean rag in it, in wliich all greasy dishes and 
kitchen utensils may be washed before being rinsed in the kitchen 
wash pan. Always keep your cook well supplied with soap, 
washing mops and coarse linen dish rags. I have noticed that il 
you hem the latter, servants are not so apt to throw them away. 
Insist on having each utensil cleaned immediately after being 
TTsed. Have shelves and proper places to put each article, 
hooks to hang the spoons on, etc. If you cannot have an oil- 
cloth on your kitchen floor, have it oiled and then it may be 
easily and quickly wiped over every morning. Once a week, 
have the kitchen and every article in it thoroughly cleaned. 
First clean the pipe of the stove, as the dust, soot and ashes fly 
over the kitchen and soil everything. Then take the stove to 
j)ieces, as far as practicable, cleaning each part, especially the 
bottom, as neglect of this will prevent the bread from baking 
well at the bottom. After the stove is thoroughly ssve])t out, — 
oven and all, apply stove polish. I consider " Crumbs of Com- 
fort " the besc ])reparation for this |)urposc. It comes in small 
])ieces, each one of which is sufficient to clean the stove once, 
and is thus less a]»t to be wasted or thrown away by servants than 
stove polish that comes in a mass. Next remove everything 
from the kitchen safe and shelves, which mu.st be scoured befor* 
replacing the iitensils belonging to them, and these too njust 
first be scoured, scalded, and wiped dry. Then wash the win- 
dows, and lastly the floor, scouring the latter unless it is oiled, 
in which case, have it merely wiped over. 

Never let a servant take np ashes in a wooden vessel. Keep 
a sheet-iron pan or scuttle for the purpose. At night, always 
have the water buckets filled with water and also the kettles, 



HOUSEHOLD MEASURES YEAST. 25 

setting the latter on the stove or range, in case of .sickness or any 
emergency during the night. Have kindling wood at hand also, 
so that a fire may be quickly made, if needed. 

Sometimes a discoloration is observable in iron kettles or 
other iron vessels. This may be avoided by filling them with 
hay before iising them. Pour water over the hay, set the ves- 
sel on the fire and let it remain till the water boils. After tkis, 
scour in sand and ashes — then wash in hot soap-suds, after 
jv^hich process, there will be no danger of discoloration. 

Household Measukes. 
Wheat Flour, 1 lb. is 1 quart. 
Indian Meal. 1 lb. 2 oz. are 1 quart. 
Butter, when soft, 1 lb. is I pint. 
Loaf sugar, broken, 1 lb. is 1 quart. 
White sugar, powdered, 1 lb, 1 oz. aiu 1 (juart. 
Best brown sugar, 1 lb. 2 oz. are 1 quart. 
Ten eggs are 1 lb. 
^ Flour. 8 quarts are 1 peck, 
" 4 pecks are 1 bushel. 

16 large tablespoonfuls are ^ pint. 
8 large tablespoonfuls are 1 gill. 
2 gills are ^ pint. 

A. common sized tumbler holds .'i pint. 
A tablespoonful is -^ oz. 
60 drops are equal to a teaspoonful, 
4 teaspoonfuls ai-e equal to 1 tablespoonful. 

YEAST. 

Boil one quart of Irish potatoes in three quarts of water. 
When done, take out the potatoes, one by one, on a fork, peel 
and mash them fine, in a tray, with a large iron spoon, leaving 
the boiling water on the stove during the process. Throw in 
this water a handful of hops, which must scald, not boil, as it 
turns the tea very dark to let the hops boil. 



26 IRISH POTATO YT5AST YEAST THAT NEVER FAILS. 

Add to the masl ed potatoes a heaping teacupful of powdei'cd 
■white sugar and half a teacupful of salt ; then slowly stir in the 
strained hop tea, so that there will be no lumps. When inilk- 
wurm ;idd a t('acu|)ful of yeast and pour into glass fruit jars, or 
large, clear glass bottles, to ferment, being careful not to close 
ihem tigiitly. Set in a warm place in winter, a cool one in sum- 
mer. In six hours it will be ready for use, and at the end of 
that time the jar or bottle must be securely closed. Keep in a 
cold room in winter, and in the refrigerator in summer. This 
yeast will keep two weeks in winter and one week in summer. 
Bread made from it is always sweet. — Mrs. S. T. 

Irish Potato Yeast. 
1 quart of potatoes, boiled and mashed fine. 
1 teaspoonful of salt. 
^ teacup of sugar. 
Put two cups of flour in a l)Owl, and pour over it three cups 
of strong hop-water, scalding hot, and stir it briskly. 

Then put all the ingredients in ajar together, and when cool 
enough, add a cup of j'cast, or leaven. 
Set it by the fire to rise. 
It will be i-eady for use in five or six hours. — Mrs. K. 

Another Recipe for Yeast. 
12 large potatoes, boiled and mashed fine. 
1 teacup of brown sugar. 
1 teacup of salt. 
1 gallon of hop tea. 
Mix the ingredients well, and when milk-wai'm, add a ])int of 
yeast. Set it in a warm })lace to rise. Put one teacupful of 
this yeast, when risen, to two quarts of flour. — Mrs. Dr. S. 

Ykast that Never Fails. 
Boil twelve potatoes in four quarts of water till reduced to 
three quarts. 



ALUM YEAST LEAVEN. 27 

Then take out and mash the potatoes, and throw into the 
\vater three handfuls of hops. 

When the hops have boiled to a good tea, strain the water 
over the potatoes, a small quantity at a time, mixing them well 
together. 

Add one teacup of brown sugar. 

1 teacup of salt. 

1 tablespoonful of ground ginger. 

When milk-warm, add yeast of the same sort to make it rise. 

Put it in bottles, or a jug, leaving it uncorketl for a day. 

Set it in a cool place. 

Put two large tablespoonful s of it to a quart of flour, and 
when making up, boil a potato and mix with it. 

This yeast never sotirs, and is good as long as it lasts. — Mrs. 

A.F. 

Alum Yeast. 

On one pint of flour pour enough boiling water to make a 
thick batter, stirring it until perfectly smooth, and then let it 
stand till milk-warm. 

Then add a teaspoonful of powdered alum. 
1 teaspoonful of salt, 
l' tablespoonful of sugar. 
Half a teacup of yeast. 
After it ferments, add enough meal to make it a stifi" dough. 
Let it stand till it works, and then spread it in the shade to 
diy. 

To a quart of flour put a tablespoonful of crumbs. — Mrs. I'. 

Leaven. 
2 tablespoonfuls of flour. 

1 tablespoonful of lard or butter. 

2 tablespoonfuls of yeast. 
2 eggs. 

1 potato. 

2 teaspoonfuls of sugar 



28 KXCELLENT BREAD FOR BREAKFAST. 

Make the leaveu soon after breakfast in winter, and at one 
o'clock p. M. iu summer. Let it be of the consistency of bat- 
ter. Put it in a small bucket, in a warm place, to rise till foui 
o'clock p. M. This amount of leaven is sufficient for two quarta 
of flour. If for loaf bread, leave out the eggs and butter. — 
Mrs. M. 

Excellent Bread for Breakfast. 

1 quart of Hour. 

Lard the size of a walnut. 

1 small Irish potato, boiled and mashed tine. 

1 heaping teas])oonful of salt. 

Half a teacup of good yeast, into which put a tablespoonful 
of white sugar. 

Make up a soft dough with cold water in summer and milk- 
warm water in winter. This must be kneaded for thirty min- 
utes, and then set to rise, in a cool ])lace in summer, and a warm 
one in winter; must never be kept more than milk warm. 

Two hours before breakfast, make the dough into the desired 
shapes, handling it lightly, without kneading it, first rubbing 
lard over the hands, and taking especial care to grease the 
bread on to]). Then set it to rise again. 

Thirty minutes are sufficient for baking it, unless it be in the 
form, of a loaf or rolls, in which case, it must be baked fifteen 
minutes longer. Excellent muffins may be made by the above 
receipt, adding two eggs well beaten, so that from the same 
batch of dough both plain bread and muffins may be made. 

Iron moulds are best for baking. 

For those who prefer warm bread for dinner, it is a good 
plan to reserve a portion of the breakfast dough, setting it 
away in a cool place till two hours before dinner, then make 
into turnovers or twist, set it to rise and bake it for dinnei", as 
for breakfast. Very nice on a cold day, and greatly i)referable 
to warmed-over bicad. — Mrs. tS. T. 



family bkead — old virginia loaf bread. 29 

Recipe fok Family Bread. 

2 quarts of flour. 
2 tablespooufuls of lard or butter. 
2 teaspoonfuls of salt. 

Enough sponge for a two quart loaf of bread. 
Mix with one pint of sweet milk. 
Make into rolls and bake with very little fire under the oven. 
^Mrs. A. C. 

Loaf Bread. 
First make a batter of the following ingredients. 
1 pint of lliiur. 
1 teaspoonful of salt. 
1 teaspoonful of sugar. 
A cup of water. 
A. cup of good yeast. 
Set this to rise and when risen work in two pints of flour, 
or, if the imtter is not sufficient to work up this flour, add a 
little water. 

Work it smoothly and set it to rise. 

When risen, add a small piece of lard, work it well again, 
let it stand an hour and then bake it slowly. — Mrs. JR. ^V. 

Old Virginia Loaf Bread. 

Sponge for the same. 

Boil one large Irish potato, until well done, tlien peel and 
mash it fine, adding a little cold water to soften it. Stir 
into it 

1 teaspoonful of brown sugar. 
1 tablespoonful of swe?.et lard. 

Then add tliree tablespoonfuls of good hop yeast. 

Mix the ingredients thorougldy, then put tlie sponge in a 
mug with a close-fitting top, and let it stand several hours to 
rise. 

Sift into the tray three pints of the best family flour, to \\ Inch 



30 ANOTUEK RECIPE FOR I.OA.F BREAD. 

add a teaspoonful of salt. Then pour in the sponge and add 
enough cokl water to the flour to work it up into a rather stifi" 
dough. Knead it till the dough is smooth, then let it stand all 
night to rise. Work it over in the morning, using just enot jjli 
flour to keep it from sticking to the hands. Allow it one hour 
to rise before baking and one hour to bake in a moderate oven. 
Then it will be thoroughly done and well dried. 

Use a little lard on the hands when making out the loaf, as 
it keeps the crust from being too hard. — Mrs. S. 

Another Recipe for Loaf Bread. 

Good Hour is the first requisite, and next, good yeast and 
suflicient kneading. 

For a loaf of ordinary size, use 
2 lbs. of flour. 
Lard the size of a hen's egg. 
A saltspoonful of salt. 
2 gills of yeast. 

Mix up these ingredients into a moderately stift' dough, using 
for tlie purpose, from three gills to a pint of water. Some flour 
being more adhesive than others, you have to learn by experi- 
ence the exact amount of water required. 

Knead the dough till perfectly smooth, then set it to rise, in 
a cool place, in summer, but in a warm place, free from draughts, 
in winter. In the latter season it is better to keep a blanket 
wrapped around it. 

This amount of flour will rise to the top of a gallon and a 
half jar or bucket. If it is ready before time, stir it down and 
set it in a cooler place. 

When you put it in the baking-pan (in which it will be in 
an inch of the top, if the pan be of a suitable size for the 
amount of flour) cover it well, or a liard crust will form from 
the eflects of the atmosphere. Keep it a little warmer during 
the second rise than during the first. When ready for baking, 
set it in the oven and bake it for three-quarters of an hour with 



LIGHT BKEAD FRENCH KOLLS. ul 

a moderate fire, evenly kept up. It will then come out with 
out sticking, if the pans ai'e well cared for. — Mrs. tT. J. A. 

Light Bread. 

2 quarts of flour. 

1 teaspoonful of sugar. 

1 teaspoonful of salt. 

Half a teacup of yeast. 

One egg, well beaten. 

1 pint of water. 
Sift the flour and divide it into three parts. Mix one third 
in the battel', one third in the jar to rise in, and pour tlie 
other third over the batter. Let it stand two hours and tlieii 
work it well, adding a small piece of lard before baking. — Mrs. 
Dr. S. 

Recipe for Hot Rolls or Cold Loaf Bread. 
Mix the following ingredients. 
Four pints of flour. 

1 pint of fresh milk. 

2 eggs, well beaten. 

1 large tablespoonful of melted lard. 

1 large tablespoonful of hop yeast. 
Set it to rise at eleven o'clock in the morning, for early tea. 
Make into rolls at five o'clock p. m., and bake as soon as risen. 
In cool weather, set before the fire, both before and after mak- 
ing it into rolls. — Mrs. S. 

Frenx'h Rolls. 
1 quart of flour. 

1 teaspoonful of salt. 

2 eggs. 

1 large tablespoonful of lard. 

2 tablespoonfuls of yeast. 



32 KKIONCII ROLLS VELVET K(.»LLS. 

Work aud knead it well at niglit, and in the mcuning work 
it well again, make it into rolls, put them in the oven to take a 
second rise, and when risen, bake them. — Mrs. Col. W. 

Another Recipe for French Rolls. 

3 pints of flour. 
1 gill of yeast. 
1 egg (beaten np). 
1 tablespoonful of butter. 
Mix up with milk and warm water and set to rise. — Mrs. 
Dr. E. 

Another Recipe for French Rolls or Twist. 

1 quart of lukewarm milk. 

1 teaspoonful of salt. 

1 teacup of yeast. 

Enough flour to make a stiff batter. 
When very light, add one beaten egg and two teaspoonf\il3 
of butter, and knead in the flour till stiff enough to roll. Let 
it rise a second time, and, when very light, roll out, cut in 
strips and braid it. Bake thirt}' minutes, on buttered tins. — 
Mrs. S. 

Velvet Rolls. 

Three pints of flour. 
Two eggs. 

One teacup of sweet milk. 
One teacup of yeast. 

1 tablespoonful of lard, and tlie same of butter. 
Mix well and beat the dough till it blisters. 
L<'t it rise, work in a small quantity of Hour, beat as before 
and make into rolls. After the second rising, bake quickly. — 
^frs. Dr. 8. 



POCKETBOOK KOLLS TURNOVERS. S8 

POCKETBOOK E.OLLS. 

1 quart of flour. 

1 teaspoonful of salt, 

2 teapoonfuls of sugar. 

2 tablespoonfuls of lard. 

3 tablespoonfuls of yeast. 
2 eggs. 

Mix up these ingredients with warm water, making up the 
dough at ten A. M. in summer and eight A. M. in winter. Put 
in half the lard when it is first worked up, and at the second 
working put in the rest of the lard and a little moi-e flour. 

Koll out the dough in strips as long and wide as your hand, 
spread with butter and roll up like a pocketbook. Put them 
in buttered tins, and, when they are light, bake them a light 
brown — Mrs. L. C. C. 

Turnovers. 

1 quart of Hour. 

1 large Irish potato, boiled and mashed. 

3 eggs. 

1 tablespoouful of butter or lard. 

2 tablespoonfuls of yeast. 
1 teacup of milk. 

Rub the potato in the flour, then the lard and other ingre- 
dients, making it into a soft dough. Then set it to rise, at 
night if you wish it for breakfast next morning. Early in the 
morning, take off a piece of dough, the size of a biscuit, roll it 
out, about five inches long, then turn it about half over. When 
you have made up all the dough, in shapes like this, j)lace them 
on a dish or board, cover with a napkin and set aside for a 
second rising. When ready to bake, dij) a feather in water and 
pass over them to pi^event the crust being too hard. If the 
dough should be sour, knead in a little soda, wliich will correct 
it— 3Trs. A. C. 

9* 



iJ4 TURNOVERS SALLY-LUNN. 

Another Mecipe for Turnovers. 
1 quart of flour. 
4 eggs. 

1 tablespc)onful of lard or butter. 
1 tablespoouful of yeast. 
Set it to rise, then make them up round and flat, greasing 
the upper side with lard and turning over one side. When 
well risen the second time, bake — Mrs. I. 

Twist. 
From the dough of loaf bread or French rolls, reserve enough 
to make two long strips or rolls, say, fifteen inches long and 
one inch in diameter. Rub lard well between the bauds before 
handling and shaping these strips. Pinch the two ends so as to 
make them stick together. Twist them, pressing the other ends 
together to prevent unrolling. — Mrs. IS. T. 

Pockets. 
1 quart of flour. 
4 eggs. 

1 cup of butter. 
1 cup of yeast. 

1 large Irish potato, boiled and mashed into the flour. 
Add the yeast, butter and eggs, after mashing the potato in 
the flour. Knead all together and set to rise. 

Sally-Lunn. 
1 quart of flour. 
1 teaspoonful of salt. 
1 tablespoouful of white sugar. 
Rub in a heaping tablespoouful of butter and lard in equal 

pai-ts, then rub in an Irish potato, mashed fina 
Half a teacup of yeast. 
3 eggs well beaten. 
Make up the dough to the consistency of light bread dough. 



8ALLT-LUNN KECIPE FOB THE SAME. J& 

with warm water in winter, and cold in summer. Knead half 
an hour. When it has risen light, handle lightly, put into a cake- 
mould and bake without a second kneading. — Mrs. ^. 7\ 

Another JRecvpe for Sally-Lunn. 

1 quart of flour. 

1 tablespoonful of yeast, 
4 eggs well beaten. 

2 oz. of butter or lard. 
1 pint of milk. 

Set it to rise in the pan in which it is to be baked, — 3Irs. 
A. C. 

Another Redpe for Sally-I/wnn. 

3 pints of flour. 

1 tablespoonful of butter and the same of lard. 

3 eggs. 

1 light teacup of yeast. 

2 large tablespoonfuls of sugar. 

Use as much milk in mixing as will make a soft dough. 
Work this well, as it gets only one working. Then grease it, 
put it in a greased pan, and set it in a warm place to rise. Bake 
about an hour, — Mrs. Dr. T. 

Recipe for the Same. 

1 quart of flour, 

3 tablespoonfiils of yeast. 
3 eggs. 

1 saltspoonful of salt. 
Butter the si^e of an egg. 
Make up with new milk into a tolerably stiff" batter. Set 
it to rise and when risen pour into a mould and set to rise again, 
as light bread. Bake quickly, — 3/?-s. X, 



86 quick sali,t-lunn salt sulphur muffins. 

Quick Sally-Lunn. 

1 quart of flour. 
Half cup of butter. 

2 eggs. 

2 cups of milk. 

Two teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar. 

1 teaspoonful of soda. 

2 tablespoonfuls of sugar. 
1 saltspoonful of salt. 

]!uko fifteen minutes. — Jfrs. Dr. S. 

Muffins. 

1 quart of flour. 

6 eggs, beaten very light. 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 

2 tablespoonfuls of yeast. — 3frs. Dr. 7r7. 

Sweet Spring Muffins. 
Sift three good pints of flour. Beat well six eggs, leaving 
out one and a half of the whites. Then beat into them as much 
flour as they will take in ; then add milk and flour alternately 
(beating all the while) till all the flour is u.sed. Add five table- 
spoonfuls of yeast, and when this batter is well beaten, stir into 
it two ounces of melted butter, cooled but liquid. The batter 
must be as stift' as can be beaten with an iron spoon. Bake in 
a hot oven. — 3frs. L. 

Salt Sulphur Muffins. 
Work together, about twelve o'clock in the day, one pint of 
yeast, half a pint of water, six eggs, one pound of butter and 
enough flour to make a dough just stifi" enough not to stick to the 
fingers. After the dough is risen, make it out in biscuit and 
allow half an hour or more for them to rise before baking. — 
Mrs. L. 



supekiob muffins muffiks. 37 

Superior Muffins. 
1 quart of flour. 
1 teaspoonful of salt. 
1 tablespoonful of white sugar. 
Rub in one heaping tablespoonful of butter and lard mixed, 
and one tablespoonful of Irish potato, mashed free from lumps. 
Pour in three well beaten eggs and a half teacup of yeast. 
Make into a soft dough with warm water in winter and cold in 
summer. Knead well for half an hour. Set to rise where it 
will be milk-warm, in winter, and cool in summer. If wanted 
for an eight o'clock winter breakfast, make up at eight o'clock 
the night before. At six o'clock in the morning, make out into 
roiind balls (without kneading again), and drop into snow-ball 
moulds that have been well greased. Take care also to grease 
the hands and pass them over the tops of the muffins. Set them 
in a warm place for two hours and then bake. 

These are the best muffins I ever ate. — 3Irs. S. T. 

Parker House Muffins. 
Boil one quart of milk. When nearly cool stir in one quart 
sifted flour, one teaspoonful salt, one half cup of y^east. Then 
stir in three well beaten eggs. Let it rise in a warm place in 
winter and a cool one in summer, eight or ten hovrs. When 
risen light, stir in one tablespoonful melted butter and bake in 
iron muffin moulds. — Mrs. W. H. M. 

Muffins. 
1 quart of flour. 
1 pint milk. 
3 eggs. 

1 heaping tablespoonful lard. 
1 « " butter. 

\ cup yeast. 
1 teaspoonful sugar. 
Mix and beat till perfectly light. — Mrs. W. ti. 



38 MUFFINS CREAM MUFFINS, 

Another Recipe for Mujfins. 
One quart of milk, one dozen eggs, one pound of butter. 
Beat the butter and yolks together. Beat the wliites to a still' 
frotli. Make the batter the consistency of pound cake, and 
bake in snow-ball cups as soon as made. — Mrs. C. W. B. 

Muffin Bread, 

3 pints of flour. 

4 eggs. 

1 pint of milk, 

1 large tablespoonful of butter, 
1 gill of yeast, 
A little salt. 
Make up at night. This makes two loaves. — Mrs. A P\ 

Soda Muffins, 

1 quart of flour. 

2 eggs. 

3 teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar. 
1 teaspoonful of soda. 

Add enough buttermilk to make a stiS" batter, and bake 
immediately. 

White Egg Muffins. 

1 j)int of flour. 

Whites of 8 eggs, beaten to a stiff froth. 
Add enough milk to make it into a thin batter. Put in a 
little salt. Very nice. — Mrs. C. G. McP. 

Cream Muffins, 

Beat the whites and yolks of four eggs separately. When 
well beaten, mix them and add to them a half pint of cream, a 
lump of melted butter half the size of an egg. Then mix in 



MISCELLANEOUS YEAST BREADS — OLD MAIDS. 3tt 

slowly one pint of flour and bake it quickly, in small tins, \vitli 
out any further beating. A delicious breakfast bread. — Mrs. 
Mc G., Ala. 

3IisceUaneous Yeast JBreads. 

BUNNS. 

1 pint of potato yeast. 
4 ounces of sugar. 
4 ounces of butter. 

1 egg and as much flour as will make a soft dough. 
Make as Sally- Lunn and bake in rolls. — Mrs. Dr. S. 

Cottage Loaf. 
1 quart of flour. 
*" 1 tablespoonful of sugar. 

1 tablespoonful of butter. 

1 tablespoonful of yeast. 

2 eggs, and a little salt. 

Make up at night for breakfast, mixing it with water. Bake 
in a quart tin pan. — Mrs. A. JB. 

Potato Bread. 

1 quart of flour. 
4 eggs. 

4 good sized Irish potatoes, boiled, mashed and strained 
through a colander. 

2 ounces of butter. 

As much yeast as is needed to make it rise. 
To be made up with water, not so stiff as light bread dough. 
Bake in a loaf or rolls. — Mrs. J. H. F. 

Old Maids. 
Made at night like common light bread. Roll out the size 
of saucers in the morning, for the second rising. Bake on 
a hoe, turning over as a hoe cake. Then toast the sides, ir 



40 GRAHAM BREAD BROWN BREAD RUSKS. 

front of a fire. A very nice, old-fashioned bread. — Mrs. 
Dr. E. 

Graham Bread. 
Tlie night before baking, make a sponge of white flour, using 
half new milk and half cold water, with a teacup two thirds 
full of liome-made yeast. In the morning, put four tablespoon- 
fuls of this sponge in a separate dish, adding three tablespoon- 
fuls of moIas.ses, a little milk or water, and stirring in as mich 
Graham flour as you can with a spoon. Then let it rise and 
mould the same as white bread. 

Brown Bread. 
One quart of light bread sponge, one-half teacup of molasses. 
Stir into the above, with a large spoon, unbolted wheat meal, 
until it is a stiff dough. Grease a deep pan, put the mixture 
in ; when light, put the pan over a kettle of hot water (the 
bread well covered), and steam for half an hour. Then put in 
the oven and bake until done. Especially good for dyspejitics. 
— Mrs. I). Cone. 

Box Bread. 

One quart of flour, one teacup of yeast, one teacup of melted 
lard or butter, four eggs, one teaspoonful of salt. Let it rise uh 
light bread, and, wlien risen, make it into square rolls, without 
working it a second time. Let it rise again and then bake it. 
—Mrs. R. E. W. 

Rusks. 
1 cup of yeast. 
1 cup of sugar. 
1 cup of cream. 
4 eggs. 
Enough flour to make a batter, mixed with the other ingredi- 
Rnts. Let it rise ; then add enough flour to make rolls, and 



EGG RUSKS — GERMAN RUSKS FRENCH BISCUIT. 41 

also add a teacup of lard and butter mixed. Bake as rolls after 
they have risen. — Mrs. S. 

Egg Rusks. 
Melt three ounces of butter in a pint of milk. Beat six 
eggs into one-fourth of a pound of sugar. Mix these ingredi- 
ents with enough flour to make a batter, adding a gill of yeast 
and half a teaspoonful of salt. When light, add flour to make 
a dough stitf enough to mould. Make into small cakes and let 
them rise in a warm place while the oven is heating. — Mrs. 
Dr. S. 

German Rusks. 

1 quart of flour. 

^ 2 eggs. 

2 cups of sugar. 

2 cups of lai-d and butter mixed. 

2 cups of potato yeast. 

2 cups of milk. 

1 nutmeg. 
Put all the ingredients in the middle of the flour, work well 
together and set to rise as loaf bread. Wash the rolls over 
with butter and sugar. — Mrs. C. L. T. 

French Biscuit. 
1 quart of flour. 
1 teaspoonful of salt. 
Rub in one tablespoonful of butter and lard mixed. 
Pour in half a teacup of yeast, two well beaten eggs, and 
enough water to make a soft dough. Knead half an hour. 
Then set to rise ; when well risen, roll out, withoixt kneading 
again. Handle lightly, first greasing the hands with butter. 
Cut with a biscuit cutter, greasing one biscuit and ])lacing an- 
other on it. Set to rise a second time before baking. — Mrs. 

S. T. 

4 



42 vanity buiscuit cream biscuit. 

Vanity Biscuit. 
One pint of flour, one of milk, tliree eggs beaten well together 
Bake in cups. — 3Iiss D. 

Beaten Biscuit. 
One quart of flour, lard the size of a hen's egg, one tea- 
spoonful of salt. Make into a moderately stifl" dough with 
sweet milk. Beat for half an hour. Make out with the hand 
or cut with the biscuit cutter. Stick with a fork and bake in 
a hot oven, yet not sufiiciently hot to blister the biscuit. — Jlfrs. 
S. T. 

Another Recipe for Meaten JBiscuit. 
1 quart of flour. 
1 teaspoonful of salt. 

1 Q"". 

I tablespoonful of butter and the same of lard. 
Mix uj) these ingredients with skimmed milk, work them 
well together and beat fifteen minutes. Stick with a fork and 
bake quickly. — Mrs. E. Ji. 

Soda Biscuit. 

1 quart of flour. 

1 heaping teaspoonful of cream of tartar, the same of soda, 
and the same of salt. Sift these together, then rub in a table- 
spoonful of lard and make up the dough with milk and water. 
—Mrs. E. B. 

Cream Biscuit. 

1 quart of sifted flour. 

Four teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar and two teaspoonfuls of 
fine table salt, which mixst be well dift'used through the flour. 
Then add two ounces of fresh, good buti(;r. Take one pint of 
pure, sweet cream, put in it two even teaspoonfuls of soda and 
then add it to the flour. The dough ought to be very soft ; bul 



EXCELLENT LIGHT BISCUIT — SODA CRACKEES. 43 

should it be too soft, add a little more flour. Woi'k it well, 
roll it out half an inch thick, cut with a biscuit cutter and bake 
in a quick oven five minutes. — Mrs. JT. S. F. 

Excellent Light Biscuit. 
Boil four large Irish potatoes. While hot, mash them with 
a piece of lard the size of an egg. Add one teacup of milk 
and one of yeast. Stir in enough flour to make a good batter 
and set it to rise. It will take about two quarts of floui-. 
When light, make up the dough. You generally have to add 
more water oi' milk. Roll thick, let them rise slowly, but 
hake them quickly. — Mrs. M. G. H. 

Light Biscuit. 

Two quarts flour, one large tablespoonful lard, and the 
same of butter. Salt to the taste. One teaspoonful soda and 
enough buttermilk to make a soft dougli. Bake quickly. — Mrs. 
Dr. S. 

Thick Biscuit. 

One quart flour, one large tablespoonfid lard and butter mixed, 
one teaspoonful salt, enough morning's milk to make a stifi" 
dough. Work well and beat with a rolling-piu or iron pestle, at 
least half an hour. INTake into small biscuit and bakt; iu a quick 
oven. This will make sixteen biscuit. — JFrs. M. A. P. 

Thin Biscuit or Crackers. 
One quart of flour, one tablespoonful lard and butter mixed, a 
Uttle salt. Make a stifi" paste with water. Beat the dough 
till it blisters. Roll thin, stick, and bake quickly.- —jl/'-s 

.1. c. 

Soda Crackers. 
1 quart of flour. 

1 tablespoonful of lard and butter mixed. 
1 egg ; a little salt. 
I teaspoonful of soda, sifted into the flour. 



44 HUNTSVILLE CRACKEES — NUn's PUFFS. 

Make a stiff paste with buttermilk, beat until light, roll 
tolerably thin, cut in squares, prick, and bake quickly. — Mrs. 
A. C. 

HuNTSViLLE Crackers. 
Take a lump of risen dough, as large as yox. r double fist, a 
heaping teaspoonful of loaf sugar, beaten with the yolk of an 
egg. ]Mix -with the dough a lump of butter the size of a hen's 
ags. and an equal quantity of lard, a tablespoonful of soda, dis- 
solved in a cup of cream. Beat a long time, stirring in flour 
all the while, till quite stiff. Roll out, cut in square cakes and 
bake in a brisk oven. — Miss E. P. 

Water Crackers. 

1 lb. of flour. 

1 teaspoonful of salt and the same of soda. 
1 tablespoonful of lard. 
Make up with sweet milk, beat well, roll thin, and bake 
quickly. 

Wafers. 
1 quart flour. 
Yolk of one egg. 
1 heaping tablespoonful lard. 
A Kttle salt. 
Mix with milk, as stiff as you would for biscuit. Beat well 
with the biscuit beater, roll out thin and put in the wafer irons. 
Put in the fixe and bake. — Mrs. W. S. 

Nun's Puffs. 
Boil one pint of milk with half a pound of butter. Stir them 
into three-quarters of a pound of flour and let them cool. 
Then add nine eggs, yolks and whites to be beaten separately, 
and whites to be added last. Fill cups or tins half full and 
bake. When done, sprinkle with white sugar while he t. Yery 
nice for tea. — Mrs. A. D. 



MtSCELLANEOUS FLOUR BREADS. 45 

Miscdlaneous Flour Breads. 
Lapland Bkead. 
1 quart of jflour. 
1 quart of cream. 
1 teaspoonful of salt. 
Twelve eggs (whites and yolks beaten separately and very 
light). Put the whites in the batter the last thing, beat very 
light, bake in a quick oven, in small tins, which must be per- 
fectly dry and sprinkled with a little flour before being greased. 
A delicious bread. — Mrs. Dr. J. 

A. Plainer Recipe for the Same. 
1 pint of flour. 

1 pint of milk. 

2 eggs. 

Beat the eggs well and stir in the flour and milk. Bake in 
little pans. 

New Bread. 
1 quart of flour. 

1 dessertsj:)oonful of lard and the same of butter. 
1 teaspoonful of soda. 
Work the lard and butter in the flour, and sprinkle in the 
scda, with salt to taste. Mix with buttermilk or clabber to the 
consistency of biscuit. Roll it round to the size of a teaplate. 
Made just before eating. — Mrs. F.: 

Henrietta Bread. 
1 pint of flour. 

1 pint of sweet milk. 

2 eggs, beaten separately. 

1 tablespoonful of lard or butter. 
Make the consistency of poor man's pudding. Bake in cups 
—Mrs. K. 



*() jenny lind bread breakfast foffr. 

Jenny Lind Bread. 

1 quart of sifted flour. 

A lump of butter the size of an egg 

2 teacups of milk. 
4 eggs. 

1^ teaspoonfuls of soda. 
2 teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar. 
Jiake twenty minutes. — 3frs. L. 

Lunch Bread. 

1 pint of flour. 

1 tablespoonful of butter. 

3 tablespoonfi;ls of sugar. 

1 teaspoonful of soda. 

2 teaspoonfuls cream of tartar. 
2 eggs. 

1 cup of milk and a little salt. 
Bake in a flat pan in a quick oven. To be eaten hot witb 
butter. — Mrs. I. H. 

Breakfast Puffs. 

One tumbler of flour, one tumbler of milk, and one egg. 
Beat the yolk and milk together, then add the flour, and lastly 
the white of the egg. Bake a few minutes in a hot oven. — 
Mrs. I. H. 

Another Recipe for the Same. 

Take two eggs well beaten and stir into a pint of milk ; add 
a little salt, two spoonfuls of melted butter, one and one-half 
pints of flour. Stir thoroughly, so as to avoid lumps. Grease 
the cups in which you pour the batter, and till them two-third.s 
full. 



salt-risen bread waffles. 47 

Salt-Risen Bread. 
Make into a thin batter : 

1 pint of flouf. 
1 tablespoonful of coi'n meal. 
Half-teaspoonful salt. 
Set in a warm place to rise. After it has risen, pour into it 
two quarts of flour, with sufficient warm water to make up a 
loaf of bread. Work it well, set it to rise again, and when 
risen sufficiently, bake it. — 3frs. T. L. e/i 

Another Recipe for the Same. 
Into a pitcher, put one teacup of milk fresh from the cow, 
two teacups of boiling water, one tablespoonful of sugar, one tea- 
spoonful of salt. Into this stir thoroughly a little less than a 
quart of flour. Set the pitcher in a kettle of moderately warm 
water and keep it at a uniform temperature. Keep a towel 
fastened over the mouth of the pitcher. Set the kettle in front 
of the fire to keep the water warm. Let it stand three hours, 
then beat it up well, after which do not interrupt it. If in two 
hours it does not begin to rise, put in a large slice of ajjple. 
As soon as it rises sufficiently, have ready two quarts of flour, 
half a tablespoonful of lard and more salt, and make up immedi- 
ately. Should there not be yeast enough, use warm water. 
Put into an oven and set before a slow fire to rise, after which 
bake slowly. The yeast must be made up at seven o'clock in 
the morning. — Miss N. C. A. 

Waffles. 
1 pint milk. 
3 tablespoonfuls flour. 
1 tablespoonful corn meal. 
1 tablespoonful melted butter. 
1 light teaspoonful salt. 
Three eggs, beaten separately, the whites added last. To 
liave good waffles, the batter must be made thin. Add another 



4-8 WAFFLES SODA WAFFLES. 

egg and a teacup of boiled rice to the above ingredients, if you 
wish to make rice waffles. — Mrs. S. T. 

Waffles. 
1 quart of flour. 

1 quart of sour cream (or buttermilk, if you have no cream). 
C eggs. 

1^ teaspoonful of soda. 

Half a tablespoonful of melted lard, poured in after tlie bat- 
ter is mixed. 
This may be baked as flannel cakes or muffins. — 31rs. 
H.D. 

Another Recipe for "Waffles. 

1 quart of flour. 

6 eggs beaten very light. 
1^ pint of new milk. 

2 teaspoonfuls of salt. 

3 tablespooufuls of yeast. 

Set it to rise at night, and stii- with a spoon, in the morn 
ing, just before baking. When you want them for tea, make 
tliem up in the morning, in winter, or directly after dinner, ic 
Kumraer. — Mrs. Dr. JT. 

Soda Waffles. 
1 pint of flour. 
1 pint of milk. 

1 teaspoonful of soda, dissolved in the milk. 

2 teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar, mixed in the flour. 
2 eggs. 

1 tablespoonful of butter. 
Beat up and bake quickly. 

Another Recipe for Waffles. 
\ quart of flour, with a kitchen-spoonful of corn meal addetl 



8UT-EKI0R KICE WAFFLES — MUSH WAFFLES. 49 

3 eggs beaten separately. 

1 quart of milk. 

1 teacup of water. 

1 teaspoonful of salt. 

Lump of butter large as a walnut, melted and poured in. 

Bake in hot irons. 

One secret of having good waffles is to have the batter thin. 

Superior Rice Waffles. 
1 quart flour. 
3 eggs. 

1 cup boiled rice, beaten into the flour. 
1 light teaspoonful soda. 
Make into a batter with buttermilk. Bake quickly in waffle 
irons. Batter made as above and baked on a griddle makes 
excellent breakfast cakes. — Mrs. D. B. K. 

Rice Waffles. 
1 pint of flour. 
1 pint of new milk. 
The yolks of three eggs. 
Lump of butter the size of an egg. 
Half teacup of boiled rice. 
A pinch of salt and a pinch of soda, sprinkled in the flour 

and sifted with it. 
Beat well.— Jfrs. F. 

Another Hecipe for the Same. 
Two gills of rice, mixed with three ounces of butter, thi*ee eggs, 
three gills of flour, a little salt, and cream enough to make the 
batter. Beat till very light. — Mrs. Dr. 8. 

Mush Waffles. 

With one pint of milk, make corn mush. When cool, add a 

5 



50 BREAKFAST CAKES VELVET CAKES. 

tablespoonful of butter, a little salt, and thicken with flour to a 
stiff batter. Bake quickly in irons. — Mrs. C. L. T. 

Breakfast Cakes. 
In the morning take the dough of a pint of flour. Beat two 
eggs light and mix them with a half pint of milk, then add 
these ingredients to the dough, let it stand an hour to rise, and 
then bake as buckwheat cakes. — Mrs. Dr. JT. 

Madison Cakes. 
Two pounds of flour, two eggs, two ounces of lard, three table- 
spoonfuls of yeast. Make up with new milk, the consistency of 
i-oll dough, at night. Flour the biscuit board and roll out the 
dough in the morning about three quarters of an inch thick, 
cutting the cakes with a dredging-box top. Let them rise, 
covered with a cloth, till fifteen minutes before breakfast. 
— Mrs. L. 

Orange Cakes. 
1 quart of flour. 
1 teacup of butter. 
4 eggs. 

1 tablespoonful of yeast. 
Make into a stiff batter with milk, the over-night. Next 
morning, add a teacup of Indian meal. Beat well and put in 
cups '.o rise before baking. — Mrs. A. C 

Velvet Cakes. 
1 quart of flour. 
1 quart of milk. 
1 tablespoonful of yeast. 
1 tablespoonful of melted Initter. 
3 eggs. 
Bake in muflin rings. — Mrs. 4. C. 



FLAilNEL CAKES BHCKWHEAT 0AKE8. 51 

Flannel Cakes. 
1 quart of flour. 
1 pint of meal. 
1 teacup of milk. 

1 teacup of yeast. 
3 eggs. 

2 teaspoonfuls of salt. 

Beat well together and let it rise till usual time in a vvarnj 
place. Excellent. — Mrs. W. B. 

Another Meeipefor Flannel Cakes. 

1 quart of flour. 

2 eggs. 

1|- pint boiled milk (used cold). 

2 teaspoonfuls of salt. 

3 tablespoonfuls of yeast (added after the other ingredients 

have been mixed). 
Beat light, and set to rise till morning. 
Bake on a griddle. — Mo's. Dr. J'. 

Another Recipe for the Same. 
4 eggs. 

1 quart of milk. 

Half teacup of butter or lard. 

2 tablespoonfuls of yeast. 
1 teaspoonful of salt. 

Flour to make the batter like pound cake. — Mrs. S. 

Buckwheat Cakes. 
1 quart buckwheat flour. 
1 pint sifted corn meal. 
Half teacup of yeast. 
1 teaspoonful of salt. 
Enough water to make a stiS" batter. 
A.fter rising, stir in a half teacup of butter or lard. Let il 



52 BCOKWHEAr CAKES CREAM CAKEfi. 

rise a second time, grease the griddle, dip the spoon in lightly, 
and cook quickly. — Mrs. P. W. 

Another Medpe for liuckwheat Cakes. 
1 pint of buckwheat flour. 
1 tablespoonful of meal. 
1 tablespoonful of yeast. 
1 teaspoonful of salt. 
Make up with water the over-night, and beat till it bubbles. 
[n the morning beat again, and just before baking stir in a 
pinch of soda dissolved in milk or water. — Mrs. Col. W. 

Buckwheat Cakes. 
1 quart buckwheat flour. 
1 pint wheat flour. 
^ teacup yeast. 
A pinch of salt. 
Make into a batter with warm water. Set to rise. Thin 
the batter with a cup of milk (to make them brown well). 
Add a pinch of soda and bake quickly on a gi'iddle. Butter 
and send to the table hot. — Mrs. D. B. K. 

Another Mecij^e for the Same. 

1 pint buckwheat. 
^ pint sifted meal. 

2 teaspoonfuls of salt. 

4 tablespoonfuls of yeast. 
1^ pint lukewarm water. 
Beat well and set to rise till morning. — Mrs. Dr. >T. 

Cream Cakes. 
1 pint of flour. 

1 pint of cream (or milk). 

2 eggs, well beaten. 

Lump of butter size of an egg. 



CREAM OAKES — BOSTON CREAM CAKES. 53 

Put the milk and butter on the fire till it boils. Mix and 
bake quickly in pans. Salt to taste. 

A.nother Hecipe for Cream Cakes. 

1 quart of cream (sour is preferable). 
4 eggs. 

1 teaspoonful of soda. 
1 teaspoonful of salt. 
Flour for a thick batter. — Mrs. G. 

Another Mecipe for the Same. 

1 quart of flour. 
^ 3 eggs. 

1 tablespoonful of lard. 
1 pint of cream. 
1 teaspoonful of salt. 
Bake in tins. — Mrs. A. C. 

Boston Cream Cakes. 

2 cups of flour. 
2|- cups of watei". 
1 cup of butter. 
5 eggs. 
Boil the butter and water together, stir in the flour while 
boiling ; after it is cool, add the eggs, well beaten. Put a large 
spoonful in muffin rings, and bake twenty minutes in a hot 
oven. 

The cream for them is made as follows : 

Put over the fire one cup of milk and not quite a cup of 
sugar, one egg, mixed with three teaspoonfuls of corn starch 
and one tablespoonful of butter. Boil a few moments only. 
When cool, add vanilla to the taste. 

Open the cakes and fill them with this cream. — 31. H. IT. 



.')4 butteemilk oakes — kioe oajteb. 

Buttermilk Cakes. 

1 quart of flour. 

2 eggs, well beaten. 
1^ pint of buttermilk. 
1 teaspoonful of salt. 

Beat very light, after mixing the ingredients. Just before 
baking, stii" in a little soda, mixed in a little of the buttermilk. 
Bake on a griddle, free from grease. — Mrs. L. 

Sour Milk Cakes. 
1 pint sour milk. 
1 pint flour. 

Butter size of a small egg. 
1 tablespoonful of sugar. 
1 saltspoonful of salt. 
Half teaspoonful of soda. 
Bake in hot and well greased iron clads. 

Farina Cakes. 
Melt together one pint of milk and one tablespoonful of 
butter. Then add four tablespoonfuls of farina and boil till 
quite thick. Set aside to cool. When ready to bake, add 
three well beaten eggs, a few spoonfuls of flour, and salt to your 
taste. — Mrs. S. 

Rice Cakes. 
Put one pound of rice in soak the over-night. Boil very 
soft in the morning, drain the water from it and mix with it, 
while hot, a quarter of a pound of butter. After it has cooled, 
add to it one qiiart of milk, a little salt, and six eggs. Sift 
over it and stir into it gradually a half pound of flour. Beat 
the whole well and bake on a gi'iddle like other batter cakes. — 
Mrs. W. 



RICE CAKES OLD VIRGINIA BATTER CAKES. 55 

Another Hecipe for Rice Cakes. 
One cup of cold boiled rice, rubbed in a quart of milk, one 
pint of flour, a teaspoonful of salt, two eggs beaten light. 
Beat all till free from lumps. Bake as soon as made, on a well 
greased griddle. 

Batter Cakes. 
Two eggs beaten separately. Pour into the yolks a pint of 
buttermilk, then put in two handfuls of meal and one of flour, 
then the whites of the eggs, half a teaspoonful of soda and a 
little salt. Fry with very little gi-ease, or with egg shells. 
Put two spoonfuls of batter to a cake. — Mrs. C. L. T. 

Another Mecipe for Batter Cakes. 
1 quart of flour. 
1 pint of meal. 
1 teaspoonful of soda. 
1 teaspoonful of salt. 
3 eggs. 
Make up with buttermilk. — Mrs. Dr. J. 

Salter Cakes made of Stale Bread. 
Put a loaf of stale bread to stand all day in a pint of milk. 
Just before tea add three eggs and one large spoonful of butter. 
If too thin, add a little flour. — Mrs. R. 

Old Virginia Batter Cakes. 

Beat two eggs very light in a bowl. Add one teacup of 
clabber, one of water, one of corn meal, a teacup of flour, one- 
half teaspoonful of salt. Just before baking, sift in half a 
teaspoonful of soda and stir well. It is better to grease the 
griddle with fat bacon than with lard. 

The above proportions will make enough batter cakes for two 
or three persons. — Mrs. >S. T. 



56 OLD VIRGINIA BA.TTEE CAKES — BAITER BREAD. 

Another Mecipefor the Same. 

1 quart sweet milk. 

1 heaping pint corn meal. 

4 eggs. 

1 teaspoonful of salt. 

Half teaspoonful of soda. 

1 tablespoonful of warmed butter or fresh lard. 
Break the eggs, whites and yolks together, beat slightly, thee 
add the milk, stir in, the meal and beat until it looks light. 
Bake on a giiddle. — Mrs. J'. P. 

Cheap Recipe for Hatter Cakes. 
1 pint of sour milk. 
1 teaspoonful of soda. 
1 tablespoonful of flour. 
Enough meal to make a good batter. 
Bake on a hoe. — Miss E. P. 

Indian Griddle Cakes. 
1 quart of sour milk. 

1 large tablespoonful of butter, m^elted after measuring. 

2 eggs. 

1 teaspoonful of soda. 

Half a teaspoonful of salt. 

Make a thin batter, with two-thirds Indian meal, and one- 
third flour. 

A small bag made of coarse but thin linen or cotton, and 
filled with common salt, is much better to rub over the griddle 
than lard, when cakes are to be fried or baked. 

Batter Bread. 

Break two eggs into a bowl. Beat to a stiff" froth. Pour in 

one teacup of clal)ber or butter-milk, one of water, one of com 

meal, one of flour, half teaspoonful of salt, a heaping teaspoonful 

of butter melted. Beat all well together. Have already heated 



BATTER BREAD — CORN MEAL WAFFLES. 57 

ou the stove or range, iron-clad muffin moulds (eight or ten in 
a group). Grease them well with a clean rag, dipped in lard. 
Fill each one nearly full with the batter, first sifting in half a 
teaspoonful soda. Set in a hot oven and bake a nice brown. 
Oblong shapes are the nicest. If preferred, sweet milk may be 
uaed instead of sour milk and water. In this case add anothcsr 
egg and dispense with the soda. — 3frs. jS. T. 

Batter Bkead. 
Four cups of meal, two cups sweet milk, four eggs, two table- 
spoonfuls flour, one tablespoonful lard, one teaspoonful salt, 
half teaspoonful soda. — Mrs. F. 

Batter Bread. 

One cup meal, one cup sweet milk, one cup butter-milk, two 
eggs, one tablespoonful buttei", one ta*blespoonful flour, half 
teaspoonful of salt, and same of soda. 

Bake in cups. — Mrs. G. 

Corn Muffins. 

3 eggs, beaten light. 

1 pint of buttermilk (if very sour, use less). 
1 teacup of cream or milk. 
1 small teaspoonful of soda. 
Lard or butter size of an egg. 
Meal enough to make the batter of the consistency of pound- 
cake batter. — Mrs. I. 

Corn Meal Waffles. 

One pint of corn meal scalded. While hot add to it, two 
tablespoonfuls of lard or butter, three well beaten eggs, a cup of 
boiled rice, a pint of flour, a teaspoonful of salt. 

Thin to the proper consistency with milk. — Mrs. Dr. S. 
3* 



58 ST. Nicholas' pone — corn cake. 

St. Nicholas' Pone. 
1 quart of meal. 
1 quart of milk. 
4 eggs. 
1 tablespoonful of melted butter. 

1 teaspoo:iful of salt. 

2 teaspoonfuls cream of tartar. 

1 teaspoonful of soda. — Mrs. C. C. 

Gkit or Hominy Bread. 
2 eggs, beaten separately. 
1 pint of milk. 
Small piece of butter. 
Add enough laeal and hominy to make a batter, and bake 
quickly.— Jfrs. G. L. T. 

Hominy Bread. 

Mix with two teacups of hot hominy a very large spoonful of 
butter. Beat two eggs very light and stir into the hominy. 
Next add a pint of milk, gradually stirring it in. Lastly, add 
half a pint of corn meal. The batter should be of the consist- 
ency of rich boiled custard. If thicker, add a little more milk. 
Bake with a good deal of heat at the bottom, but not so much 
at the top. Bake in a deep pan, allowing space for rising. 
When done, it looks like a baked batter pudding. — Mrs. 
F. D. 

Corn Cake. 
1 pint of corn meal. 

1 pint of sweet milk. 

2 eggs. 

1 tablespoonful of butter. 

2 tablespoonfiils of flour. 
1 teaspoonful of salt. 

Boil the milk and pour it over the meal, flour, and butter. 



MUSH BKEAD — OLD-FASHIONED EGG BREAD. 59 

Beat light. When cool, add eggs well beaten. Bake in a but- 
tered pan.--J!fr5. G. W. P. 

Mush Bread. 

Make a thin mush of corn meal and milk (or hot water, if 
milk is scarce). Cook till perfectly done, stirring all the cime 
to keep it smooth. Then add a good lump of butter ; and, after 
it cools a little, two eggs, one at a time. Beat in a very small 
pinch of soda and a little salt. 

Butter a yellow dish and bake slowly till brown. — Mrs. C. 
L. T. 

Light Corn Bread. 
Pour one quart of boiled milk over one pint of corn meal. 
Add a teaspoon ful of salt, a teaspoonful of cream of tartar, half 
teaspoonful of soda, three well beaten eggs, four tablespoonfuls 
of flour, a little butter. — Miss E. P. 

Soft Egg Bread. 

1 quart of milk. 
Half pint of meal. 
3 eggs. 

Large spoonful of butter. 
Make in a pudding dish. Rice is an impro^•ement to the 
ubove. — Mrs. P. 

Old-fashioned Egg Bread. 

1 pint of meal. 
3 eggs well beaten. 
1 teaspoonful of salt. 
1 tablespoonful melted butt<n'. 
Add enough sweet milk to make a rather thin batter. Bake 
quickly. — Mrs. >S. T. 



bO OLD-FASH I OTSHED EGG BREAD OEACKLIN BREAD. 

Another Recipe for Egg Sread. 
1 quart of niilk. 
3 eggs. 

1 tablespoon ful of butter. 
1 pint of corn meal. 
1 teaspoonful of salt. 
Beat the eggs very light and add to the other ingi-edients. 
Bake in a pan or dish. Add a little soda dissolved in milk, if 
you desire it. — Mrs. I. H. 

Indian Bread. 
Beat two eggs very light, mix alternately with them one pint 
of sour milk or buttermilk, and one pint of fine corn meal. 
Melt one tablespoonful of butter, and add to tlie mixture. Dis- 
solve one teaspoonful of soda in a small portion of the milk, 
and add to the other ingredients, last of all. Beat hard and 
bake in a pan, in a hot oven. 

Rice Bread. 
1 pint sweet milk. 

1 teacup boiled rice. 

2 teacups sifted corn meal. 
\ teacup melted butter. 

3 eggs, beaten sepai'ately. 
^ teaspoonful salt. 

Bake in a very hot oven, using buttered iron muffin rnoulda. 
—Mrs. S. T. 

Cracklin Bread. 
Take one quart sifted corn meal and a teacup of cracklins. 
Rub the latter in the meal as fine as you can. Add a tea- 
spoonful of salt and make up with warm water into a stitl 
dough. Make into pones, and eat hot. — Mrs. P. W. 



vikginia ash cake — boiled coffee. 61 

Virginia Ash Cake. 

Add a teaspoonful of salt to a quart of sifted corn meal. 
Make up with water and knead well. Make into round, flat 
cakes. Sweep a clean place on the hottest part of the hearth. 
Put the cake on it and cover it with hot wood ashes. 

Wash and wipe it dry, before eating it. Sometimes a cab- 
bage leaf is plaoed under it, and one over it, before baking, in 
which case it need not be washed. — Mrs. S. T. 

Plain Corn Bread. 
1 pint sifted meal. 
1 teaspoonful salt. 

Cold water sufficient to make a stiff" dough. 
.^ Work well with the hands, pat out in long, narrow pones, 
six or seven inches long and as wide as the wrist. Bake quickly 
in a hot pan. — Mrs. P. TF! 



COFFEE, TEA, AND CHOCOLATE. 

To TOAST Coffee. 

Wash and pick the coffee, put it in a very large stove-pan in 
H hot oven. Stir often, giving constant attention. It must be 
toasted the darkest brown, yet not one grain must be burned. 
It should never be glazed, as this destroys the aroma. 

Two pints of coffee become three pints after toasting. — Mrs. 
S. T. 

Boiled Coffee. 
To one quart of boiling water (poured in after scalding the 
pot) stir in three gills of coffee, not pround too fine. Boil 



62 COFFEE. 

tweaty minutes, scraping from the sides and stirring occasion 
ally. Five minutes befoi-e breakfast, scrape from the spout, 
pour out half a teacupful, and return to the pot. Do this a 
second time. Set it with the side of the pot to the fire, so that 
it will be just at the boiling point. Do not let it boil, however. 
Serve in the same coffee-pot. 

Coffee should never be glazed. 

Have a liberal supply of thick, sweet cream, also of boiled 
milk, to serve with the coffee. 

If the members of the family drop in at intervals, it is well 
to keep the coffee over a round iron weight, heated just enough 
to keep the coffee hot, without boiling it. This answers better 
than a spirit lamp for keeping ceffee hot. — Mrs. S. T. 

Coffee. 

Take equal quantities of Mocha, Java, Laguayra and Rio 
coffee. Have the coffee roasted a chestnut brown. To every 
twelve cups of coffee to be drawn, use eighteen heaping table- 
spoons of the ground coffee. Have the water boiling hot, scald 
the biggin or pei-colator, put the ground coffee in the upper 
part, then pour on some boiling water for ib to draw — about 
two teacups if you are to make twelve cups of coffee. Let it 
stand a few moments and pour again into the upper part of the 
percolator the first drawn coffee. Then add, one by one, the 
cups of boiling water required. It will take ten ininutes for 
the coffee to be ready for the table. 

Use the best white sugar, and in winter let the milk stand 
twenty-four hours for the cream to rise. Use together with 
rich cream, a cream jug of boiling sweet milk. — Mrs. M. 

c. c. 

Coffee 
Buy Java and Laguayra niixed, two-thirds Java and oue- 
third Liguayra, which will give a deliglitful aroma to the Java. 
Scald the pot. Tlien put in a teacup of coarsely ground 



DEIPPED OR FILTERED COFFEE GREEN TEA. 63 

coffee, parched a light brown and mixed with cold water till it 
forms a paste, to six cups of boiling water. Before you put 
in the boiling water, add to the grounds one or more egg-shells 
or whites of eggs, to keep it clear. Let it boil ten or fifteen 
minutes. Before taking it off the fire, drop in about a teaspoou- 
ful of cold water, which will settle all the floating grounds. — 
Mrs. J. P. 

Dripped or Filtered Coffee. 
If one quart of cofiee is desired, grind three gills of coffee, 
put it in the filterer and pour boiling water over it. If not suf- 
ficiently strong, pour out and return to the filterer. Then set on 
the fire and boil up, taking from the fire immediately. — Mrs. 
S. T. 

Dripped Coffee. 
One-half pint Java coffee ground and put in the dripper. 
Pour over it two and one-half pints boiling water. If not 
strong enough, pass through the dripper a second time. — Mrs. 
J. H. McD. 

Caf6 au Lait. 

1 cup German chiccory. 

2 cups ground coffee. 

Pnt in three pints boiling water with a pinch of isinglass, 
boil five minutes and allow it to settle, or, if made in a percola- 
tor it will be better. Use three-quarters of a cup boiling 
milk and one-quarter of strong coffee, with sugar to suit the 
taste.— J/rs. J". W. S. 

Green Tea. 
Scald the teapot, and add one-half pint boiling water to two 
teaspoonfuls of the best green tea. Set it where it will keep 
hot, but not boil. When it has drawn fifteen or twenty min- 
utes, add boiling water till it has the strength desired. — 3Irs. J 
R. McD. 



<)4 GRKEN TEA ICED TEA. 

Green Tea. 
Scald the teapot. If you wish a pint of tea, put in one heap- 
ing teaspoonful tea after putting in a pint boiling water. Set 
this where it will keep hot, but not quite boil. — Mrs. S. T. 

A good Cup of Green Tea. 
Before putting in any water, set the teapot with the tea in it 
before the fire and let it get thoroughly hot. Then fill the pot 
with boiling water and let it stand five minutes. — Mrs. M. JE 
L. W. 

Black Tea. 
If you wish a quart of tea, put that quantity of boiling, 
water into the teapot, after scalding it. Add four teaspoonfuls 
of tea. Boil twenty minutes. It is a gi-eat improvement to 
put in a little green tea. — Mrs. S. T. 

Blach Tea. 
Add one and one-half pint boiling water to a half-tea- 
cupful of the best black tea. Boil gently for ten or fifteen 
minutes. If too strong, weaken with boiling water. — Mrs. JT. 
Ji. McD. 

Iced Tea. 

After scalding the teapot, put into it one quart of boiling 
water and two teaspoonfuls green tea. If wanted for supper, 
do this at breakfast. At dinner time, strain, without stirring, 
through a tea-strainer into a pitcher. Let it stand till tea time 
and then pour into decanters, leaving the sediment in the bottom 
of the pitcher. Fill the goblets with ice, put two teaspoonfuls 
granulated sugar in each, and pour the tea over the ice and 
sugar. A squeeze of lemon will make this delicious and 
healthful, as it will correct the astringent tendency. — Mr», 
ti. T. 



CHOCOLATE — MILK AND BUrrEB. 65 

Chocolate. 
Scrape fine one square of Baker's chocolate (which will be an 
ounce). Put it in a pint of boiling water and milk, mixed iu 
equal parts. Boil it ten minutes, and during this time mill it 
or whip it witli a Dover egg-whip (one with a wheel), which 
will make it foam beautifully. Sweeten to the taste, at table. — 
Mrs. S. T. 

Cocoa. 
To one pint milk and one pint cold water add three table- 
spoonfuls grated cocoa. Boil fifteen or twenty minutes, mill- 
ing or whipping as directed in foregoing recipe. Sweeten to 
taste, at the table. Some persons like a piece of orange-peel 
l^oiled with it.— Mrs. S. T. 

Broma. 

Dissolve one large tablespoonfnl broma in one tablespoonful 
warm water. Pour on it one pint boiling milk and water (equal 
parts). Boil ten minutes, milling or whipping as above directed. 
Sweeten to the taste. — Mrs. S. T. 

A cream-pitcher of whipped cream should always accompany 
chocolate or any preparation of it, such as cocoa or broma. — 
Mrs. S. T. 



MILK AND BUTTER. 

The most exquisite nicety and care must be observed in the 
management of milk and butter. A housekeeper should have 
two sets of milk vessels (tin or earthenwai-e, never stoneware, 
as this is an absorbent). She should never use twice in succes 



66 MILK AND BUTTER. 

sion the same milk vessels without having them scalded and 
aired. 

In warm weather, sweet milk should be set on ice, if practi- 
cable, or if not, in a spring-house. Never put ice in sweet milk, 
as this dilutes it. One pan of milk should always be set aside 
to raise cream for coffee. A bucket with a close-fitting lid should 
be filled with milk and set aside for dinner, one for supper, one 
for breakfast, and a fourth for cooking purposes. 

For making butter, strain unskimmed milk into a scalded 
churn, where the churning is done daily. This will give sweeter 
butter and nicer buttermilk than when cream is skimmed and 
kept for churning, as this sometimes gives a cheesy taste to the 
butter. Do not let the milk in the churn exceed blood heat. 
If overheated, the butter will be white and frothy, and the milk 
thin and sour. Churn as soon as the milk is turned. In sum- 
mer try to churn early in the morning, as fewer flies are swarm- 
ing then, and the butter can be made much firmer. 

A. stone churn is in some respects more convenient than a 
wooden churn ; but no matter which you use, the most fastidi- 
ous neatness must be observed. Have the churn scalded and 
set out to sun as soon as possible after churning. Use your last 
made butter for buttering bread, reserving the staler for cookery. 

Butter should be printed early in the morning, while it is 
cool. A plateful for each of the three meals should be placed 
in the refrigerator ready for use. Do not set butter in a re- 
frigerator with anything else in it but milk, or in a safe with 
anything but milk. It readily imbibes the flavor of everything 
near it. After churning, butter should be taken up in what is 
called " a piggin," first scalded and tlien filled with cold water. 
With an old-fashioned butter-stick (scalded) wash and press the 
butter till no water is left. Then add a little salt, finely beaten. 
Beat again in a few hours, and make up in half-pound prints. 
I would advise all housekeepers (even those who do not make 
their own butter) to keep a piggin, a butter-stick, and a pretty 
buttar-print. 



TO BECUEE 1«CE BUTTER FOR THE TA.BLE IN WINTER, 67 

To secwre nice .Butter for the Table in Winter. 
In October and November, engage butter to be brought 
jv^eekly, fresh from the churn in rolls. Wrap each roll in a 
piece of old table cloth, and put in a sweet firkin or stone jar 
which has been washed with soda water, scalded and sunned 
for a month before using. Pour over it a clear strong brine, 
which also must have been prepared at least a week before- 
hand, by pouring off the settlings and i-epeated strainings. 
Have a nice tlat rock washed and weight the butter down witli 
it, being careful to keep it always under the brine. — Mrs. 
8. T. 

Hecipefor Putting up Butter 
2 quarts best common salt. 
1 ounce pulverized saltpetre. 
1 ounce white sugar. 
Work the butter over three times, the last time adding au 
ounce of the above mixture to every pound butter. Of course, 
the butter is salted, when first made. Make the butter into 
rolls and wrap in cloths or pack in jars, within four inches of 
the top of each jar. If the latter is done, fill tlie jars with 
brine and tie up closely. If the former is preferred, drop the 
rolls into brine, prepared as follows : 

To every gallon brine that will bear an egg, add one pound 
white sugar and one-half ounce saltpetre. Boil well and skim. 
Keep the brine closely covered. I have used butter on my 
table in May, put up in this way, and it tasted as well as when 
put up in October. — Mrs. R. C. 

Clabber. 
To have clabber in perfection, place in small glass dishns or 
bowls enough milk to make clabber for each person. After it 
has turned, set it in the refrigerator, if in summer, till called 
for. By the way, refrigerators (as well as water- coolers) should 
be washed every morning with water in which a tablespoonful 



68 COTTAGE CHEESE — SOUP. 

of common soda has been dissolved. They shouhi then be aired 
before filling with ice for the day. — Mrs. S. T. 

Cottage Cheese. 
When the tea-kettle boils, pour the water into a pan of " lop- 
pered " milk. It will curd at once. Stir it and turn it into a 
colander, pour a little cold water over it, salt it and break it 
up. A better way is to put equal parts of buttermilk and 
thick milk in a kettle, over the fire, heat it almost boiling hot, 
pour into a linen bag and let it drain till next day. Then take 
it out, salt it, put in a little cream or butter, as it may be thick 
or not, and make it up into balls the size of an orange. 



SOUP. 
As making soup is a tedious process, it is best to make 
enough at once to last several days. Beef shank is most gen- 
erally used in making nutritious soup. It is best to get this 
the day before using it, and soak it all night in cold, clear water. 
If you cannot do this, however, get it as early in the morning 
as you can. Break the bones, wash it, soak it a few minutes in 
weak salt and water, and put it in a large boiler of cold water. 
As soon as it begins to simmer, remove the dark scum that 
rises on top. Keep the boiler closely covered, and boil very 
slowly till an hour or two before dinner. Then, with a ladle, 
remove all the fat from the top, as it is this element that makes 
soup unwholesome. Strain and season, or, if you i)refer, season 
just enough for one meal, reserving the rest as foundation for 
another sort of soup. It is well always to keep some of this 
stock on hand in cold weather, as by the addition of a can of 
tomatoes, or other ingredients, a delicious soup may be quickly 
made of it. Never throw away water in which any sort of meat 



(JYBTER SOUP ECONOMICAL OYSTER SODP. 69 

has been boiled, as it is much better to simmer hash or a stew 
in this liquor than in water, and it is also invaluable for bast- 
ing fowls or meats that have not been parboiled. 

Directions for soup making are so fully given in the follow 
ing pages that it is needless for me to say anything further on 
the subject here. 

Oyster Soup. 

100 oysters. 

1 teaspoonful salt. 

1 tablespoonful black pepper. 

^ pound butter. 

Yolks of 3 eggs. 

1 pint rich milk, perfectly fresh. 

3 tablespoonfuls flour. 
Separate the oysters from the liquor : put the liquor to boil, 
when boiled add salt, pepper and butter, then the flour, having 
previously made it into a batter. Stir all the time. When it 
comes to a boil, add the eggs well beaten, then the milk, and 
when the mixtui-e reaches a boil, put in the oysters ; let them 
also just boil, and the soup is done. Stir all the time to pre- 
vent curdling.— JJ/rs. Judge M. 

Economical Oyster Soup. 

1 quart oysters. 

2 quarts water. 

Boil with salt and pepper. 

Cut up one tablespoonful butter with flour and put in while 
boiling ; beat the yolks of four eggs light, mix them with one- 
half pint milk. 

When the oysters are well cooked, pour on the milk and eggs, 
stirring all the time. Let it boil up, and take off quickly, and 
pour into the tureen, over toasted bread cut into dice — if 
preferred rich, leave out some of the water.-— J/ns. l^t. 
G&v.M. 



70 OYSTER SOUP PUk6e OF OYSTERS. 

Oyster Soup. 

Empty the oysters into a colander and drain off all the liquor ; 
then strain the liquor through a very coarse cloth to rid it of 
all scum, etc. To a whole can of oysters take a quai't of milk 

Put the milk, oyster liquor, one level tablespoonful flour 
Tubbed very smooth with one heaping tablespoonful of butter, 
one tablespoonful salt, one-half teaspoonful pepper, all on Iho 
fire together in a farina-boiler (or put a skillet one-third filled 
with boiling water under the saucepan, to prevent the milk 
burning). When it comes to a boil, put in the oysters and let 
them stew for twenty minutes or till the gill of the oyster turns 
and begins to ruffle and crimp at the edge. Servo immediately, 
for if they are cooked too long, they become hard, dark and 
tasteless. If you pvit the salt in last, it will not curdle the 
soup. Some add one level teaspoonful whole cloves and same 
of mace, tied up in a net bag, but they ai'e little improvement. — 
Mrs. R. 

Puu^E OF Oysters. 

For fifty oysters. 

Put the oysters on in their own liquor — let them come to a 
boil — take them out and mince them ; skim the liquor when 
nearly done. Beat well together : 

1 ^^^' 

1 dessertspoonful butter. 

^ pint milk. 

1 cracker sifted. 

Salt, pepper (mace, also, if liked). 
Pour this into boiling liquor and then add the minced oys- 
ters. When done, the soup is smooth. The milk must b« 
fresh or it will curdle. — Mrs. fTohn Walker, Alabama. 

Oyster Soup. 
Take two quarts of oysters, wash them, and add, 
2 quarts water. 



TCJBTLE SOm*. 71 

A bundle of herbs. 

1 small onion sliced. 

Let it boil until all the substance is Dut of the oysters 
Strain the liquor from the ingredients and put it back in the 
pot. Add a large spoonful butter mixed with flour. Have 
ready two dozen oysters to thi'ow in just as it is ready to be 
dished — at the same time stir up two yolks of eggs \^ith a 
cup of cream. Cayenne pepper is an improvement. — Mrs. 
E. W. 

Turtle Soup. 

Kill the turtle at daylight in summer, the night before in 
winter, and hang it up to bleed. After breakfast, scald it well 
and scrape the outer skin off the shell ; open it carefully, so as 
ik)t to break the gall. Break both shells to pieces and put 
them into the pot. Lay the fins, the eggs and some of the 
more delicate parts by — put the rest into the pot with a quan- 
tity of water to suit the size of your family. 

Add two onions, parsley, thyme, salt, pepper, cloves and all- 
spice to suit your taste. 

About half an hour before dinner thicken the soup with 
brown flour and butter rubbed together. An hour before din- 
ner, take the parts laid by, roll them in brown flour, fry them 
in butter, put them and the eggs in the soup ; just before dinner 
add a glass of claret or Madeira wine. — Mrs. JV. 

Turtle Soup. 
To one turtle that will weigh from four to five pouLvls, after 
being dressed, add one-half gallon water, and boil until the 
turtle will drop to pieces, then add : 

2 tablespoonfuls allspice. 

1 tablespoonful black pepper. 

2 tablespoonfuls butter, and salt to the taste. 

When nearly done, put in a small handful pot marjoi'am, 
thyme and parsley tied together, and two large onions ; wljcn 



72 TUKTLE SOUP MOCK-TUKTLE SOUP CLAM SOUP. 

ready to come off, add two sliced lemons, one pint good wine, 
and a small quantity of curry powder ; thicken with flour. — 
Mrs. D. 

Turtle Soup. 

To 2^ quarts soup add : 

1 ounce mace. 

1 dessertspoonful allspice. 

1 teaspoonful cloves. 

Pepper, black and cayenne, and salt to your taste. 
Tie up a bunch of parsley, thyme, and onion in a cloth, and 
throw into soup when boiling. When nearly done, thicken with 
two tablespoonfuls flour. To give it a good color, take one 
tablespoonful brown sugar and burn it ; when burnt, add a wine- 
glass of water. Of this coloring, put two tablespoonfuls in 
SOU}), and just before serving, add half a pint Madeira wine. — 
Miss K W. 

Mock Turtle Soup. 

Put on beef and boil very tender ; take out, chop fine, and 
put back to boil. Put potatoes, mace, cloves, cinnamon, 
parsley, thyme, spice, celery seed, and ten hard-boiled eggs ; 
pepper and salt to your taste. 

Thicken with flour and add brandy and wine. — Miss E. P. 

Mock Terrapin Soup. 

Cut up two pounds roast or boiled beef in small pieces. Put 
one large teacup new milk, one large teacup of wine, a piece of 
butter size of an egg (rolled in flour), a little nutmeg, two or 
three spoonfuls mixed mustard — all in a stewpan, and cook 
ten or fifteen minutes. Good way to use up cold meats. — Mrs. 
S. M 

Clam Soup. 

Boil half a peck of clams fifteen minutes ; then take them 
from the shells, clean and wash them. Have ready the stew- 



CLAM SOUP — CKAB SOUP. 73 

kettle ; strain the water, in wliich clams have been boiled ; 
chop up clams, and put in with three or four slices of salt pork, 
some mashed potatoes, salt and pepper to taste. Thicken with 
grated cracker, and add two spoonfuls butter rolled in flour. 
Let it boil twenty minxites and serve. — Mrs. C. 

Clam Sou2). 
Open the clams and chop them up fine. To twenty clams, 
add: 

^ gallon water. 
3 good onions. 
2 tablespoonfuls butter. 
A small blanch of parsley and thyme. 
Just before taking off, add one quart rich milk and thicken 
with flour.— Jfrs. D. 

Crab Soup. 

Open, and cleanse of the deadman's fingers and sandbag, 
twelve small fiit crabs raw. Cut the crabs into two parts. 
Parboil and extract the meat fron\ the claws, and simply 
extract the fat from the back shells of the crabs. Scald 
eighteen ripe tomatoes, skin them and squeeze the pulp from 
the seeds through a colander. Choj:) them fine and pour boiling 
water over the seeds and juice, and strain theni. Stew a short 
time in the soup-pot one large onion, one clove of garlic, in one 
spoonful butter and two spoonfuls lard, and put them in the 
tomatoes. 

After stewing a few minutes, add the meat from the claws, 
then the crabs, and lastly the fat from the back shells. Season 
with salt, cayenne and black pe])per, parsley, sweet marjoram 
and thyme, one-half teaspoonful lemon juice, and peel of one 
lemon. Pour in the water with which the seeds were scalded, 
adding more should there not be the quantity of soup required. 
Boil moderately one hour. About a quarter of an hour before 
serving, sift in grated bread crumbs or pounded crackers as a 



74 TO PREPARE A BEEF's HEAD AS STOCK FOR SOUP. 

thickening. Any firm fish pi-eimred by this recipe is excellent. 
—Mrs. J. I. 

Crab Soup. 

One dozen crabs to one gallon watei". Take off *op shell ; 
clear body of crabs. Cut through the middle, put them into a 
kettle, mix with some butter, and brown them. Then add one 
gallon water, and simmer for half au hour. Skim slightly, and 
add the hock of an old ham, and strained tomato juice one 
pint. Boil two liours. Season with pepper, spice if liked, and 
half-pint wine. 

The claws are to be cracked and divested of the jaws. A. 
Hampton recipe. — Miss E. W. 

Beef Soup. 
Crack the bone of a shin of beef, and put it on to boil in one 
quart water. To every pound meat add one large teaspoonful 
salt to each quart watei-. Let it boil two hours and skim it 
well. Then add : 

4 turnips, pared and cut into quarters. 
4 onions, pared and sliced. 
2 carrots, scraped and sliced. 
1 root of celeiy, cut into small pieces. 
When the vegetables are tender, add a little parsley chopped 
fine, with salt and pepper to the taste. Serve hot. — Mrs. 1*. 
McG. 

Anotlier Jiecipe for Beef Soup. 
One shin beef in one-half gallon water, put on before break- 
fast and boiled until dinner. Thicken with brown flour two 
or three hours before dinner. Put in one carrot, two turnips, 
onfe onion, thyme, cabbage, and celery-seed. — Mrs. II. P. C. 

To prepare a lieef^s Head as Stock for Soup. 
Cut up the head into small pieces, and boil in a large quantity 
of wator until it is all l)oilpd to pieces. Take out ;ill the bones 



calf's head soup. 76 

as for souse cheese, and boil again until thick. Then while hot, 
season very highly with pepper, salt, catsup, allspice, and onions 
chopped fine. 

Put into a mould to get cold. For a small family cut a thick 
slice, say five inches squai'e, whenever you want soup in a 
hurry, adding about a quart of water. It need cook for a few 
minutes only, and is valuable as keeping well and being ready 
in times of emergency. By adding a few slices of hard-boiled 
egg and a gill of good cooking wine, this soup may have very 
neai'ly the flavor of mock turtle. — Mrs. A. M. D. 

Calf's Head Soup. 
Take one-half liver and the head of a mutton, veal or beef, 
and boil until the meat drops from the bone. Cut up fine and 
add one-half the brains ; then : 
1 onion. 

1 spoonful sj)ice. 
^ spoonful cloves. 

1 spoonful black pepper and a piece of mace. 
3 tablespoonfuls flour. 

3 tablespoonfuls flour, and salt to the taste. 
Put in enough water at first, as adding it makes the soup thin. 
Cut up three hard boiled eggs, and add, when done, one glass 
of wine, 

A little brandy and walnut catsup, with more eggs, will 
improve it, though it is a delightful soup as it is. — Mrs. W. 
A. C. 

Calfs Head Soup. 
Clean the head, laying aside the brains. Put the head in a 
gallon of water, with pepper and salt. Boil to pieces and take 
out bonos ; return to the pot with — 

1 teacup of mushroom or tomato catsup. 
1 teaspoonful allspice. 
1 lemon rind, grated. 



76 calf's head soup. 

1 grated mitmeg. 
1 tablesj)aonful biitter. 
1 teacup of browned flour. 
Fry, and adtl the brains when nearly ready for the tablH. 
About five minutes before serving, add : 
1 teacup of wine. 
1 teaspoonful cloves. 
1 teaspoonful mace. 
When sent to the table liave two hard-boiled eggs sliced and 
floating on top. — Mrs. JT. T). 

Golfs Hea/1 Soup. 
Take a large calf's head and boil it with four gallons water 
and a little salt ; when tender, bone and chop it fine, keeping 
out the brains, and put the meat back in the pot and boil down 
to a tureenful. Half an hour before serving the soup, add : 
1 tablespoonful mustard. 
1 teaspoonful black pepper. 
1 teaspoonful powdered cloves. 
1 teaspoonful mace. 
1 teaspoonful nutmeg. 
Brown a cup of flour to thicken and just as the soup is 
dished, add one cup walnut catsup, and one cup port or claret 
wine. 

The brains must be beaten up with an egg, fried in little 
cakes, and dropped in the tureen. — Miss N. 

Calf'.s Head Soup. 
Take the head, split it open and take out the brains ; then 
put the head, brains, and haslet in salt water — let thera soak 
one hour. Put on to boil at eight o'clock; after boiling four 
hours, take it up and chop up the head and haslet, removing all 
the bones ; return to the soup, with a small pod of pepper. 
Thicken it with one i)int browned flour with one tablespoonfuJ 
butter rubbed in it. Have — 



BKOWN calf's head SOUP— CAJLf's HEAD SOUP. 71 

1 tablespoonful mace. 
1 tablespoonful allspice. 
-J doz. cloves. 
Beat all together and put in the tureen with, 
1 teacup of tomato catsup. 

1 teacup of cooking wine. 

Po\ir the soup on them. Have the brains fried, and t'ivo 
hard boiled eggs sliced and dropped in the soup. — 3f7-s. T. C. 

Brown Calfs Head Soup. 
Scald and clean the head, and put it to boil in two gallons 
water, with 

A shank of veal. 

2 carrots. 

3 onions. 

A small piece of bacon. 
A bunch of sweet herbs. 

Wlien they have boiled half an hour, take out the head and 
shank, and cut all the meat oif the bone in pieces two inches 
square. Let the soup boil half an hour longer, then strain it 
and put in the meat, and season with salt, black and cayenne 
pepper (and a few cloves, if you like them). Thicken with 
butter and bro^vn flour. 

Let it now boil nearly an hour longer, and just before serv- 
ing it, stir in one tablespoonful sugar brownea in a frying-pan, 
and half a pint wine. A good substitute for turtle soup. — 3Irs. 
Col. A. F. 

Calfs Sead Soup. 

Have a head nicely cleaned, the brains taken out and the 
nead put to soak. Put it on with. 
1 gallon water. 
1 piece of fat ham. 
Thyme, parsley, pepper and salt. 



78 OX-TAIL SOUP — CHICKEN SOUP. 

Boil together until the flesh is tender : take out and chop — 
strain the water — two tablespoonfuls brown flour, four ounces 
butter — returning the " dismembered " fragments ; let it boil 
till reduced to two quarts. Season with one-half pint wine, 
one gill catsup, nutmeg, mace, allspice. 

Cut up the liver, and fry ; beat the brains up with an egg, 
pepper and salt ; fry in cakes and lay in the soup when served 
up, and hard boiled eggs sliced up and put in. — Jfiss JB. L. 

Ox-tail Soup. 
Wash and soak three tails ; pour on them one gallon cold 
water ; let them be brouglit gradually to boil, throw in one and 
a half ounce salt, and clear off" the scum carefully as soon as it 
forms on the surface. When it ceases to rise, add : 
4 moderate sized carrots. 
2 or 3 onions. 
1 large bunch savory herbs. 

1 head celery, 

2 turnips. 

6 or 8 cloves, and \ teaspoonful peppercorns. 
Stew these gently from tliree hours to three and a half 
hours. If the tails be very large, lift them out, strain the 
liquor and strain off all the fat. Cut the meat from the tails 
and put it in two quarts or more of the stock. Stir in, when 
this begins to boil, a thickening of arrow-root or of rice flour, 
mixed with as much cayenne and salt as may be required to 
flavor the soup, and serve very hot. — Mrs. JP. 

Chicken Soup. 
Put on the chickens with about three quarts water and some 
thin slices bacon. Let it boil well, then p\it in : 
A spoonful biitter. 
1 pint milk. 
1 egg, well beaten. 
Pepper, salt, and celery or celery-seed or parsley. 



ROAST VEAL AND CHICKEN-BONE F.OUP — OKRA SOUP. 79 

Let all boil up. Some dumplings made like biscuits are verj 
nice in it. — J^rs. W. 

Hoast Veal and Chicken-bone Souj'). 
Boil the veal and chicken bones with vegetables, and add one 
handful maccaroni, broken up fine. Boil the soup half an 
hour. Color with a little soy or catsup. — Mrs. S. 

Chicken Souj). 
Put on the fire a pot with two gallons water and a ham bone, 
if you have it ; if not, some slices of good bacon. Boil this two 
hours, then put in the chickens and boil until done : add one- 
half pint milk and a little thickening ; pepper and salt to the 
taste. After taking off the soup, ]jut in a piece of butter size 
of an egg. Squirrel soup is good made the same way, but takes 
much longer for a squirrel to boil done. — 3frs. JP. W. 

GiBLET Soup. 
1 pint dried green English peas. 
1 pound giblets. 
1 dozen cloves. 
1 small piece red pepper, 
Nearly 1 gallon water. 
Boil peas slowly seven hoitrs. Add giblets, spices, and salt tc 
taste, two liours before dinner. When peas are dissolved, strain 
tlirough sieve ; cut giblets into dice and return to soup ; boil up 
and serve. Will be enough for six or eight persons. — Mrs. 
H. R. 

Okra Soup. 
1^ gallons water. 

2 quarts young okra, out very fine. 
2 quarts tomatoes. 
Onions, prepared as for pea soup. 
Pepper ; salt. 
1 large spoonful butter. 



80 GUMBO SOUP ^FINE VEGETABLE SOUP. 

Add the tomatoes about twelve o'clock. Put the soup od 
early in the luorning. — Mrs. I. 

Gumbo Soup. 
1 fi-ied chicken. 
1 quart okra, cut up. 
1 onion. 

1 bunch parsley. 
Few celery tops — fry all together. Put in one quart skinned 

tomatoes. 
1^ gallons water, boil to ^ gallon. 
Teacup of wine after taking from the fire. — Mrs. R. A. 

Gumbo Soup. 

Fry two fowls, old or young, with parsley, pepper, salt, 
onion, lard or bacon. 

Put it in the j)ot with water sufficient for the soup. One 
quart sliced okra, scrap of ham or fried sausage to boil with it. 

Sassafras Gumbo is made in the same way, (;xcept after the 
fowl has boiled until the flesh has left the bone, just before taking 
off the fire, stir in one tablespoonful sassafras flour. Oysters 
are a great improvement to sassafras gumbo. Gather the sassa- 
fras leaves green, and dry in the shade, as sage ; when thoroughly 
dry, rub through a sieve and bottle and coik tightly. It is 
nice in beef soup instead of okra. — Mrs. T. 

Fine Vegetable Soup. 
Put on two pounds of fresh beef, or a good-sized chicken, or 
ham bone if you have it, early in the morning. Put your boiler 
on filled with water. Keep boiling, and when boiled down, 
about one hour or more before dinner, add : 
Grated lemon peel. 
6 ears corn. 
1 dozen good tomatoes. 



VEGKTABLE SOUP. 81 

Beans. 

1 small head of cabbage. 

A few Irish potatoes. 

Sweet herbs, pepper and salt to the taste. 
A few leaves of dried sassafras rubbed xip will improve the 
taste. Serve hot with toast, a small quantity of sugar and 
vinegar. Boil till thick. — 3f')-s. Dr. L. 

Vegetable Soup. 
Before breakfast, wash a beef shank in several waters, break 
the bone, and put it in a large pot of cold water. Keep it 
steadily boiling until one hour before dinner, when the follow- 
ing vegetables, previously prepared, must be added to the soup 
after it has been carefully skimmed of all grease, and strained. 

1 quart peeled and chopped tomatoes. 

1 pint lima or butter beans. 

1 pint grated corn. 

1 pint chopped cabbage. 

1 pint sliced Irish potatoes. 

1 sliced turnip. 

1 carrot. 

A little minced onion. 

Parsley. 

1 tablespoonful pepper sauce. 

1 heaping tablespoouful flour rubbed into — 

1 teacup milk. 

1 teacup brown sugar. 

1 teaspoonful black pepper. 

Boil an hour: thicken with mixed milk and flour, and serve. 

A piece of middling, bacou, or any other kind of meat, may be 

used instead of the beef shank. The best meat of the shank 

may be freed from gristle, chopped fine and made into a nice 

Bt«w by adding 

1 grated turnip. 

1 mashed potato. 



82 TOMATO SOUP. 

1 tablespoonful pepper sauce. 
1 tablespoonful made mustard. 
1 tablespoonful butter. 
1 teaspoonful celery seed. 
1 teaspoonful fruit jelly. 
1 teacup milk. 
Minced onion and parsley. 
Boil up and serve. — Mrs. S. T. 

Tomato Soup, 
Take one quart ripe tomatoes, peeled and chopped up, or a 
three-pound can of same, put in an earthenware baking dish 
with 

1 pint grated corn (or, if in winter, dried corn prepared as il 

for the table), and add— 
1 teacup sugar. 
1 teacuj) grated cracker. 
1 teacup butter. 

1 teaspoonful black pepper. 

2 teaspoonfuls salt. 

Set this in a hot oven with a tin plate over it to picvent 
browning. Have ready, in a porcelain kettle or [)aii, two 
quarts new milk boiling hot. When the tomatoes and coin are 
thoroughly done, stir in one large Irish potato mashed smooth, 
a little minced onion and parsley, and po>u* into the boiling 
milk and serve. — Mrs. S. T. 

Tomato Soup. 

A shin of beef, season to your taste witli all kinds of vegeta- 
bles : 

Tomatoes, turnips, carrots, potatoes, cabbage cut fine, corn, 
biitter beans and celery. 

When nearly done, take vegetables out and mash them well, 
and also cut the beef up fine. It is best to season with salt and 



CLEA.R TOMATO SOUP — PEA. SOUP. 83 

peppor wlieu you first put it on. The beef should be put on 
very early. — Mrs. JT. L. 

Glea/r Tomato Soup. 

1 large can tomatoes. 

1 beef shin. 

1 bunoh soup herbs. 

1 gallon water. 
Boil eight hours, stir and skim several times. .Strain tlirough 
wire sieve, add one tablespoonful Worcester sauce and same of 
brown sugar. Serve with dice of toasted bread ; pepper and 
salt to taste. — Mrs. li. R. 

Asparagus Soup. 

Cut the asparagus into small pieces and put on to boil in salt 
water, with slices of middling ; just before dinner, taking it off, 
beat four eggs and stir in one pint milk or cream, a piece of 
butter. A piece of veal may be boiled with it, if you wish 
meat. — Mrs. H. 

Asparagus Soup. 
Parboil the asparagus with as much water as will cover 
them ; then ])our the water and asparagus into milk, then add 
butter, pei)per and salt, also bread crumbs, and boil until the 
asparagus is done. — Mrs. S. 

Pea Soup. 

Soak one pint of split peas in water for twelve hours ; drain 
off the water, put the peas into a sauce[)an with three pints 
cold water, one-half jiound bacon, two sprigs of th-ied mint, a 
bay leaf, some parsley, an onion stuck with one or two cloves, 
some whole pepper, and salt to taste. 

Let the whole boil three hours, then })ass the puree tlirough 
a hair sieve ; make it hot again and serve with dice of bread 
fried in butter. — Mrs. A, 



84 geeen pea soup — potato soup. 

Green Pea Soup. 

Boil one quart peas in two quarts water, and two thin slices 
bacon. Wlien done mash through a colander ; then 2>ut back 
in the same water, throwing away the slices of bacon. Season 
with pej)j)er, salt, spoonful butter rolled in floui*. 

Boil well again. Toast some bread and cut in slices, and put 
in the tureen when the soup is served. The hulls of green peat 
will answer ; boil them well with a few peas, then season as above 
and boil. Two hours will be enough to boil green pea soup. — 
Mrs. W. 

Green Pea Souj). 

Boil half a peck of peas in one and a half gallons water, till 
perfectly done. Take out, mash and strain through a colander, 
then pour a little of the water well boiled over them, to sepa 
rate the pulp from the hull. E^turn it to the water they were 
boiled in ; chop up one large or two small onions ; fry them in 
smallest quantity of lard, not to brown them. Add this with 
chopped thyme, jiarsley, pepper and salt. 

Just before taking oflf the fire stir in one tablespoonful butter. 
If the soup is too thin, cream a little butter with floiir to 
thicken. — 3frs. I. 

Potato Soup. 

Mash potatoes, pour on them one teacup cream, one large 
spoonful butter. 

Pour boiling water on them till you have the desired quantity. 
Boil until it thickens ; season with salt, parsley, and pepper to 
your taste. — Mrs. H. E. 

Potato Soup. 
Pour two quarts water on six or seven large peeled potatoes, 
adding two or three slices of middling; boil thoroughly done. 
Take them out, mash the ])otatoes well and return all to the 



OYSTERS AND OTHKR SHELL FISH STEWED Ol'STEKS. 85 

same water, togethei- with peppei', salt, one spoonful butter, anrl 
one quart milk, as for chicken soup. — 3frs. W. 



OYSTERS AND OTHER SHELL FISH. 

Stewed Oysters. 
Put butter, salt and pepper in a stew-pan, and put the oysters 
to the butter and stew until perfectly done. — 3frs. D. 

Stewed Oysters. 
Take one-quarter pound nice butter, put it in a pan and melt, 
then pepper and salt, add a small piece of cheese. When it is 
all melted add one pint of oyster liquor, and boil ; when hot, 
strain and put back in pan, then add oysters and boil five min- 
utes.— JHfr. K. N. 

Stewed Oysters. 
Poiir into a stew-pan ^ gallon oysters. 
2 tablespoonfuls pepper vinegar. 
1 teaspoonful black pepper. 
1 teaspoonful salt. 
Let them simmer until the oysters are plump ; take them out 
with a foi'k and drop them into a tureen, on a liandful of crack- 
ers and three heaping tablespoonfuls fresh butter. 

Pour one pint milk to the liquor, let it boil up and strain it 
on the oysters. Rinse out the stew-pan and pour the oysters, 
liquor, etc., back into it, and set it on the fire. When it comes 
to a boil, serve. 

This method deprives the oysters of the bits of shell. — Mrs 
S. T. 



»0 TO STi:^V OYSTEKS — SCALLOPED 0YSTEK8. 

To Stew Oysters. 

Put into the kettle one pint liquor, oue-half pound butter, 
and pepi>er. 

Let it boil, then put in the oysters, after draining them in a 
colander. They will be done as soon as they boil up, or when 
they curl right well. When ready to take up, add half tea- 
cup cracker crumbs and a little salt in the stew. — j)Irs. JP. W. 

To Stew Oysters. 

Put into a shallow stew-pan the oysters. As soon as the gills 
begin to open ])Our off all the liquor. Continue to cook theui, 
stirring all the time until done. The liquor that was poured 
off must be thickened with a good lump of butter rubbed up 
with flour, and seasoned with pepper and salt, and poui'ed boil- 
ing-hot onto the oysters. 

The advantage of this way of cooking is that the oysters 
become large and plump. — Mrs. Dr. E. JR. 

To Cook Oysters. 

^ gallon oysters. 

1 quart fresli milk. 

^ pound butte)'. 

1 tablespoonful flour. 

1 teaspoonful salt. 

1 teaspoonful pepper. 

1 e""'. 

Rub the egg and Hour together and tliin with a little of the 

milk. Mix the oysters, pepper and salt, and let them come to 

a boil; then add the milk, and when this Ijoils add the egg and 

flour with tlie b\itter. Let the whole boil three minutes. — Miss 

jsr. s. L. 

Scalloped Oysters. 
Do not drain the liquor from the oysters, but fork them out 
of it as you use them ; in that way as much liquor as you re 



SCALLOPED OYSTEKS. 87 

quire adheres to them. Use stale bread, and do not crumb it 
too fine, or it will be clammy. 

^ teacujiful cream. 

2 great spoonfuls butter. 

Salt and pep2)er. 
Oysters i)art with a great deal of moisture in cooking, and if 
the mixture is too wet it is not as good ; it should be rather drji 
when done. Cover the bottom of a well-buttered dish with a 
layer of very dry bread crumbs, dust over a little salt and pep- 
per, and stick little bits of butter all over the crumbs ; then, 
with a spoon, moisten it with cream. Next, place a layer of 
oysters, alternating Avith bread crumbs, until the dish is filled, 
finishing with butter and cream ; invert a plate over it to keep 
in the flavor. Bake three-quarters of an hour, or until the 
juice bubbles to the to]). Remove the plate, and brown on the 
upper shelf of the oven for two or three minutes only. — 3Irs, R. 

Scalloped Oysters. 
Those who are fond of oysters prepared in this way will find 
them much more delicate when cooked entirely by reflected 
heat. Have your tinner make you an old-fashioned " tin-kit- 
chen " with slojnng sides. Take small oblong dishes, such as 
are in general use at hotels, fill them with alternate layers of 
oysters and rolled crackers, and lay lumps of fresh butter liber- 
ally on top of each dish. Arrange them in the " kitchen," set 
the open dish in front of a bright fire or very warm gi-ate, and 
in fifteen or twenty minutes you will find the oysters delicious. 
—Mrs. D. P. 

Scalloped Oysters. 

Put on the oysters with just enough liquor to keep from 

burning, and parboil slightly. Season the resc of the liquor as 

for stewed oysters with butter, pepper, salt, and a little flour, 

and boil until done. Put the pai'boiled oysters in a baking- 



88 OYSTERS SCALLOPED IN THE SHELL DEVILLED. 

tlish, with a piece of butter and a grated cracker or stale bread 
and pepper, and pour as much of the gravy as the dish will 
hold. Put a little of the grated cracker on top, and set it in the 
ovon to brown. — 3Irs. W. 

Oysters Scallojyed in the Shell. 

Open the shells, setting aside for use the deepest ones. Have 
ready some melted buttei-, not hot, seasoned with minced pars- 
ley and pepper. 

Koll each oyster in this, letting it drip as little as may be, 
and lay in the shell, which should be arranged in a baking-pan. 

Add to each a little lemon jvxice, sift bread crumbs over it, 
and Vjake in a quick oven till done. Serve in the shells. — Mrs. S. 

Scalloped Oysters. 

Put in the scallop sliells as many oysters as each will hold. 
Sea-son with butter, salt and pepper ; a few bread crumbs. 

Cook until well done; add a piece of butter just before they 
are served. — ^Ls. R. L. 0. 

Devilled Oysters. 

I'ut a layer of law oysters in a pan, and then a layer of bread- 
crumbs, black and red pepper, salt, butter, mustard, and a little 
vinegar mixed togetlier. 

Put alternate layers of each until full, and then bake. — 

Mrs. Duke. 

Devilled Oysters. 

Drain one quart oystfsrs ; chop thoroughly and season with 
cayenne pej)per, lenion-juicu, salt, and yolks of two hard-boiled 
eggs, and yolks of two raw eggs beaten and stirred in ; one-half 
as much bread crumbs as you have oysters, and one large; table- 
spoonful butter. 

Have ready one dozen deep shells, nicely cleaned, and fill 
them with tlie oysters ; sprinkle with bread crumbs, and bake 
in a few minutes. — Mrs. II. S. 



TO COOK OYSTERS — TO FiiY OYSTERS. 89 

To Cook Oysters. 
Put into a baking-bowl a layer of cracker-crumbs, pepper, and 
butter. If the butter is salty do not use any salt. Then a 
layer of oysters, after they have been drained from their liquor ; 
do this alternately till the dish is full. Be sure and put the 
cracker crumbs at the top of the dish, and bits of butter, also 
pepper : this makes it brown nicely. Set it in a hot oven ; as 
soon as browned it will be ready for the table. — 3frs. P. W. 

Fried Oysters. 
Take each oyster separately and put salt and pepper on them,' 
then roll them in equal portions of meal and flour. Fry them 
in hot lard until a Ught brown. — Mrs. D. 

Oyster Fritters. 
Beat two eggs very light; then stir in two tablespoonfuls 
cream or milk, three tablespoonfuls sifted flour, a pinch ol" 
salt; dip the oysters in this and fry them in hot lard. — Mrs. S. 

Oyster Fritters. 

Wipe the oysters dry. Beat 6 eggs light, and stir into them : 
6 tablespoonfuls flour. 
\^ pint rich milk. 
Beat to smooth batter. Have in a pan some butter and lard ; 
when it begins to froth, put a small ladleful of the batter, with 
an oyster in the middle, into it to fry. If too thin, add flour ; 
if too thick, milk. — Mrs. H. 

To Fry Oysters. 

Drain the oysters through a sieve ; sprinkle a little salt and 

pepper over them. Dip each oyster into meal. Have the pan 

hot, and drop in an equal portion of lard and butter ; when 

boiling, put in the oysters and fry. Do not let them stand 

but serve hot. — 3frs. E. 

8 



9c fried oy6tek8 — steamed oysters. 

Fried Oysters. 
Drain the oysters through a sieve. Beat up two cr three 
eggs. Have ready some grated bread crumbs. Sprinkle some 
salt and a little pepper over the oysters; then dij) each oyster 
into the egg and bread crumbs. Have the pan hot and clean; 
put equal portions of butter and lard into the pan. Be careful 
to keep the fat of oysters from burning. — Mrs. M. 

To Fry Oysters. 
Wash them and dry them on a clean napkin ; dip in beaten 
egg and pounded crackers sifted, and let them lie several hours 
before frying, and they will not shrink. — Mrs. JP. 

To Try Oysters. 
Drain the oysters dry. Three eggs beaten, and grated 
crackers. Dip the oyster first in the egg and then in the 
crackers ; do this twice. Grease the pan with butter or lard. 
Add pepper and salt to taste, and fry. — 3frs. T. IV. 

Clam or Oyster Fritters. 
Chop up the clam very fine (when of oysters, leave them 
whole) ; put them in a batter and fry them. — Mrs. D. 

Broiled Oysters. 
Select the largest oysters, examining each one, to see that no 
particle of shell adheres to it. Dry with a nice linen cloth ; 
then pepper and salt them, and sift over a little finely-powdered 
cracker. Place them on an oyster gridiron over a quick tire. 
As soon as plump, dip each one in a cup of melted fresh butter ; 
lay on a hot dish garnished with scraped horseradish and pars- 
ley, and serve. — Mrs. S. T. 

Steamed Oysters. 
Wash shell oysters perfectly clean; lay them on a steamer, 
so the juice will not escape from the shells when opened. It 



lO K0A8T OTSTEKS — PICKLED OYSTERS. 91 

is best to lay the upper shells down. Cover the lid of the 
steamer with a coarse towel and press closely on. Set this over 
a pot of water boiling hard. In from twenty minutes to half 
an hour, the shells will have opened. Have ready a hot dish, 
on which lay the oysters ; sprinkle over them a little salt and 
pepper with a bit of fresh butter on each oyster. Serve imme- 
diately.— 3/rs. jS. t. 

To Roast Oysters. 
Wash and wipe one peck large shell oysters. Put in a hot 
oven, taking care to put the upper shell downward, so the juice 
will not escape. As soon as the shells open, lay on a liot dish 
anrt serve with horseradish or pepper-sauce, after sprinkling 
on them a little salt, and putting a bit of fresh butter on each 
oygter. — Mrs. S. T. 

PitKLED Oysters. 

1 gallon oysters. 

1 tablespoonful salt. 

1 '' ungiound black pepper. 

1 " allspice. 

6 blades mace. 

1 small piece cayenne pepper. 
Pick oysters out from the juice with a fork; stew until gills 
are opened well, then lay on flat dishes until cold ; put in a 
jar, and cover with equal parts of stewed juice and vinegar. Let 
stand two days. — Mrs. R. H. 

J^ickled Oysters. 
Take two hundi-ed oysters of largest size, rinse them in their 
own liquor and put them in a stew-pan. Strain the liquor to 
them, let them come to a boil, and no more. Take them out of 
the liquor ; have ready one quart or more of pure cider vine- 
gar, with which boil whole pepper, a little salt, mace, cloves, and 
nutmeg. 



92 PICKLED OYSTERS OYSTER PIE OYSTER PATES. 

When it is cool, pour over the oysters. Before serving add a 
few raw cranberries and thin slices of lemon. — Mrs. S. T. 

PvMed Oysters. 

Take one gallon oysters and cook them in their own liquor 
till nearly done. Then skim out the oysters and add to tho 
liquor one teaspoonful whole black pepper, one teaspoonful all- 
spice, one teaspoonful mace, a little red pepper and half a puit 
of strong vinegar. 

Let it boil a few minutes and then pour over the oysters. 
When nearly cool, slice in them a large fresh lemon. — Mrs. Col. 
A.F. 

Oyster Pie. 
Stew the oysters, not entirely done, with butter, pepper and 
one tablespoonful pepper-sauce, and salt. Make a paste of 
one pound flour and one-half pound butter. Line the dish and 
put in the oysters, grate bread crumbs over top, and bake. — 
Mrs. T. 

Oyster Pie. 
Put a paste in a deep dish. Wash the oysters, drain and 
put them in the dish, seasoning with butter, pepper, salt, and a 
little mace, if liked ; then put in a layer of grated cracker. 
When the dish is full, cover with paste and slips of paste laid 
across ; then bake. — Mrs. TF •. 

Oyster PArfs. 
Stew some large oysters with a little nutmeg, a few cloves, 
some yolk of egg boiled hard and grated, a little butter and as 
much liquor from the oysters as will cover them. When 
stewed a few minutes, take them out of the pan to cool. Have 
shells of puff paste, previously baked in patty pans, and lay twc 
or three oysters in each. — Mrs, D. 



oyster short cake raw oysters. o.t 

Oyster Short Cake. 

1 quart flour. 

3 teaspoonfuls baking powder. • 

1 tablespoonful butter. 

A pinch of salt. 

Enough sweet milk to moisten well. 
Roll about one inch thick and bake on tin pie plates quickly 
While it is baking, take one quart oysters and on,e-half cup 
water and put on the stove ; then take one-half cup milk, and 
one-half cup butter mixed with one tablespoonful flour, 
and a little salt or pepper ; add all together and boil up 
once. 

When the cakes are done, split them open and spread the 
oysters between them, and some on the top. Put the oysters 
that are left in a gravy-dish and replenish when needed. — 
Mrs. K. 

Oyster Sausage. 

Chop one pint oysters, with one-quarter pound veal, and one- 
quarter pound suet. 

Mix with bread crumbs, and pound all in a mortar. Season 
with salt and pepper, adding an egg, well beaten. 

Make into cakes like pork sausage. — Mrs. E. 

Raw Oysters. 

Take each oyster separately on a fork and drain from the 
liquor. Place on the table in an oyster tureen or salad bowl ; 
have near a pile of small oblong dishes ; scraped horseradish, 
pepper sauce, and Worcestershire sauce, etc., so that after being 
helped, each guest may season to taste. 

When oysters are transported some distance, it is well to 
boil the liquor from which they have been taken and pour over 
them : tliis makes them plump and prevents them from being 
slimy. — Mrs. S. T. 



94: TO KEEP OYSTERS ALIVE AND FATTEN. 

To KEEP Oysters alive and Fatten. 
Mix one pint of salt with thirty pints of water. Put the 
oysters in a tub that will not leak, with their months upwards 
and feed them with the above, by dipping in a broom and 
frequently passing over their mouths. It is said that they will 
fatten still more by mixing fine meal with the water. — Mrs. 
R . 

To Cook Crabs. 
Take live crabs and put them in cool water, let them remain 
for half an hour. Then put theni in a vessel, pour boiling 
water on them sufficient to cover them ; boil ten minutes. 
Take them off and wipe them clean, first removing the dead men, 
and proceed to remove the meat. Take the upper shell, clean 
it. Season the meat with pepi)er, salt, mustard, and plenty of 
butter; put all in the shell again and bake half an hour. — Mr. 
K. Norfolk. 

Crab Stew. 
One peck live crabs, steam twenty minutes, bono and pick 
the claws and bodies. Stew with one pint milk or cream, the 
flesh and eggs of the crabs, fifteen minutes. Flavor with salt 
and cayenne pepper. — Mrs. H. L. O. 

Devilled Crab. 

After crabs are picked, season with mustard, peppei-, salt, and 
catsup to taste. Add olive oil or butter. 

Cover with bread crumbs moistened with milk and lumps of 
butter (put a little milk in the crab also). Bake in the shell? 
or in a pan. — Miss E. W. 

Devilled Crabs. 
To the flesh of one dozen crabs boiled fifteen minutes and 
picked free from shell, add: 



SOFT CRABS — LOBS'J'EK CURRY. 95 

3 tablespoonfuls of stale bread crumbs. 
^ wine glass of cream. 
Yolks of 3 eggs. 
A little chopped parsley. 
1 tablespoonful butter. 
Salt and pepper to the taste. 
Put them in the shell and bake in a quick oven. — Mrs. M. E. 
L. W. 

Soft Crabs. 
Turn up the ends of the shells and take out the dead man's 
fingers and take off the flap, and cut out the sand-bag ; lay 
them in cold water until ready to fry. Then dust flour over 
them, a little salt, and ivy them in hot lard. — 3frs. J). 

Devilled Crabs. 
After the crabs ai-e boiled, pick them up fine and add one 
third the quantity of crab, in cracker dust or bread crumbs, 
mustard, red and black pepper, salt, and butter. Return them 
to the top shells, and bake. — Mrs. D. 

To Devil Hard Crabs. 
Take them while alive, put them in very little water and 
steam them till perfectly done and brown, set them away till 
cold, take all out of the shell. Mix with eggs, bread crumbs, 
butter, and pejjper. Either put back in the top shell and bake, 
or bake in pans. — Mrs. tT. C 

Lobster Curry. 

Put the meat of a large lobster into a stewpan with one blatle 
of mace. 

1 large cup of meat stock, or gi'avy. 

1 tablespoonful corn starch, mixed smooth, with a little milk 
or cream. 

Add salt. 

1 small piece of butter. 



96 TLK'J'LE OK TERRAPIN STEW TO COOK TURTLES. 

1 dessei'tspoonful cui-ry powder. 

Juice of one lemon. 

Simmer for an hour and serve hot. — Mrs. C. 

Turtle or Terrapin Stew. 

A-fte) they are well cleaned, parboil the meat, then pick it to 
pijces. Season highly with pepper, salt, cayenne pepper, hard- 
boiled egg, spices, lemon, and champagne or other wine. 

Stew until well done. 

Stewed Turtle. 
Make a stew of the turtle and add all the ingredients used in 
the turtle-soup, excejit wine and lemons. — Mrs. D. 

Terrapin. 

First cut up the head and })ut it in the pot to boil with the 
shell on; when done enough to remove the under shell, take it 
up and pick to pieces. Clean the top shell well ; add a few 
crackers, onions, jiarsley, allspice, black pepper, butter, and 
wine. 

Return it to the shell, put sliced lemon on and bake it. — 
Mrs. D. 

Turtle or Terrapin Steaks. 
Cut the turtle or terraj)in in thin slices ; broil or fry them 
with pej)per, salt, and butter. 

Turtle or Terrapin in Batter. 
Smother the steaks in an egg-batter. Season with pepper, 
salt, butter, and with a little bread crumbs ; fry or broil. 

To Cook Turtles. 
Dro]) four turtles into boiling water, and boil one hour ; then 
take thein out and remove the skin from the legs and feet, and 
replace them in fresh boiling water, wlure tliey should continue 



Fisri. 97 

to boil one aud one-half hour and then be taken out to cool. 
When cold, clean them thoroughly, removing the round liver 
wliich contains the gall. Cut them into small bits and place 
them in a stewpan, adding pepper, salt, the eggs that are found 
within, one quart water, one-half pound butter, and two table- 
spoonfuls flour mixed with a little cold water. Stir the flour 
and water well into the other ingredients, and stew about 
twenty minutes. As you remove them from the fire, pour in 
one-half pint Madeira wine. — Mrs. A. D. 



FISH. 

In selecting fish, notice if the flesh is firm and hard, the eyes 
full and 2>i'ominent, the scales bright, the fins stift', and tlie gills 
red, as all these indications denote their being fresh. Wash 
the fish, rub it with salt and pepper, and lay it on a dish, or 
hang it up till ready to cook. Never keep it lying in water, 
either in })i-eparing it for cooking, or in trying to keep it till the 
next day. 

In boiling fish, put it in boiling water, and simmer very 
slowly. It will require an hour to boil a large fish, and about 
twenty minutes for a small one. Every housekeeper should 
have a fish-kettle for fish. 

Be careful to have boiling-hot lard in the frying-pan when 
you go to fry fish. First rub salt and pepper and flour or meal 
on the fish, then keep it well covei'ed while frying, as you 
should do to every thing that is being fried. Doing tliis will 
enable you to fry the fish (or other article of food) a pretty 
amber color, while at the same time it will be perfectly done. 

Always have a tin sheet for lifting boiled fish and for turn- 
ing bruiled fish. Before broiling, rub with pepper and salt, 



9vS FISH A LA CREME HALIBUT. 

iiiid then grease witb frcsb. butter. Lay the fish on a gridiion 
well greased with sweet lard and lay the tin sheet over it. 
When you wish to turn, take the gridiron from the fire, hold- 
ing the tin sheet on top the fish. Hold tliern togetlier, then lay 
them on a table with the tin sheet down and the gi'idiron upper- 
most. Carefully raise the gridiron, leaving the fish lying un- 
broken on the tin sheet. The cook may now easily slide the 
fish on the gridiron, put it again on the fire and brown the 
other side, putting the tin sheet back on top of it. Every 
thing should be co^'ered while being broiled. When done, lay 
it on a dish and pour over it melted butter in which has been 
stirred pepper, salt, and minced parsley. If devilled fish is 
desired, add to this dressing, one tablespoonful pepper vinegar, 
one of celery vinegar, one of walnut catsup, one of made mus- 
tard, one wine-glassful of acid fruit jelly. In making sauces 
for fish, never use the water in which the fish has been boiled. 

Full directions for stewing fish are to be found in the subse^ 
quent pages. 

Fish a la Creme. 

Boil a firm fish, remove the bones, pick it to pieces. Mix 
one j)int cream or milk with two tablespoonfuls flour, one onion, 
one-half pound butter (or less), and salt. 

Set it on the fire and stir until it is as thick as custard. Fill a 
baking-dish alternately with fish, cracker, and cream. Bake for 
thirty minutes, use four crackers. — Mrs. TFi C. li. 

Halibut, 

Boil one pound halibut, then chop it very fine and add eight 
eggs well beaten ; pepper and salt to taste, then one (!up butter. 

Put it in a stewpan and cook until the eggs are done suffi. 
ciently. Serve very hot on toast. — Miss F. N'. 

Halihut. 
Halibut should be cut in slices of four pounds each. If to 



FISH CHOWDER CAT-FISH CHOWDEK OR HOG-FISH. 99 

be boiled, cover with salt water, and skim often ; drain oif and 
serve with butter sauce. 

If baked or fried, garnish with horseradish and serve with 
melted butter. 

Fish Chowder. 

Fry a few slices of salt pork, cut the fish in small pieces, pare 
and slice the potatoes, add a little onion chopped fine. 

Place all in layers in the kettle ; season with salt and pepper. 
Stew over a slow fire thirty minutes. 

Cat-fish Chowdek. 

To be made of New River cat-fish. 

Wash the fish in warm water, put it on in just water enough 
to cover it, boil until tender or until the bones will slip out ; 
take out the largest bones, chop up the fish, put it in a stewpan 
with a pint of water, a large lump of butter. 

1 cup of cream, pepper and not much salt. 

1 onion, one teaspoonful mustard, one-half teacujiful walnut 
catsup. 

Stew until quite thick, garnish with sliced lemon and serve 
hot.— Mrs. P. W. 

Cat-fish Chowdek or Hog-fish. 
Take two cat-fish, skin, and boil till thoroughly done ; pick 
very fine and add : 

2 good sized onions. 

^ pound butter. 

1 tablespoonful salt. 

1 tablespoonful pepper. 

2 tablespoonfuls Worcestershire sauce. 

Add a little celery or celery-seed, a little thyme, a little pars- 
ley. 

Pour over all about one quart of boiling water and cook fast 
bout half an hour. — J/iss F. N. 



100 fish chowder baked shbep's-hkad. 

Fish Chowder. 

Take any large fish, and cut in thin slices, lay some slices of 
fat bacon at the bottom of the pot and then a layer of fish, 
onions, cracker dust, red and black pepper, salt, and butter. 

Then more layers, until you have used all the fish. Cover the 
whole with water and cook until well done. — 3frs. D. 



Boiled Sheep's-head. 
Clean the fish and boil well done. Serve hot with butter 
and egg sauce. 

To Bake a Sheep's-head. 
Put two tablespoonfuls butter and two tablespoonfuls lard 
in a skillet ; also, with that, two tablespoonfuls flour, a little 
parsley, one pint boiling water, a little wine, catsup, salt, anil 
cayenne pepper. Boil a few minutes ; then take four eggs, half a 
pint cream or butter ; beat well together. Lay the fish in a 
large deep dish, pour gravy from skillet over it; spread butter 
over top of fish. The bottom of the oven to be quite hot, top 
slow.— illfiSS E. W. 

Boiled Sheep's-head or Rock. 
Lay the fish in a fish boiler, in a cloth, to prevent breaking. 
Throw into the water a handful parsley, and when the fish is 
done, lay some si)rigs on it in the dish. — 3frs. D. 

Baked Sheep's-head. 
Put the fish in a pan and cover with water ; put a little par- 
sley, onions, and fat bacon, ohop])ed u}) together, black pepper 
and salt, in the fish and over it, and when nearly done, beat up 
one egg and a little flour, and j)0ur over it to thicken the 
gravy. Bock or shad may be cooked the same way. — - 
Mrs. D. 



BAKED sheep's-head — BAKED ROCK. 101 

JBahed Sheep's-head. 
When lead J for cooking, salt and pe2)per well, gash the sides 
In three or four places. Cut four onions very hue, to which 
add one pint bread crumbs, fat meat minced very tine, as it 
suits better than lard, cayenne pepi)er, thyme, a little salt, and 
the yolks of two eggs, all mashed together, with which stuff the 
lish inside and gashes on the outside. Then sprinkle over with 
flour and black pepper; put into a large pan with one quart 
cold water. Bake two hours, slowly. Serve with or without 
sauce, according to taste. — 3fiss 1^. ISf. 

Boiled Rock-fish. 
Clean the fish nicely, rub well with salt and pepper. Put 
into a large deep pan, that it may lie at full length ; cover with 
cold water, adding salt and pepper. Boil steadily for three- 
quarters of an hour ; dish and serve with melted butter and 
sauce or catsup. — Miss F. N. 

.Boiled Rock-fish. 
Clean nicely and hang it up ; do not lay it in water, but 
wash it when ready for cooking. Put on in boiling water, 
seasoning with salt to taste. It takes two hours to boil, if 
large. Serve with egg sauce, and send to the table in a napkin 
to ke«^p hot. — Mrs. W. 

To Stew Rock-pish. 
Take a rock, clean and season with parsley, sweet marjoram, 
onions, one-half pint water, salt to taste, one pint Port wine, 
one-half pound butter, and a little flour. Put them in a dish, 
and set in a stewpan. One hour is suflScient for cooking. — 
Mrs. J. T. 

Baked Rock. 

Boil the fish and take out the bones. Season with cream. 



102 TO PICKLE ROCK TO BKOII. SHAD. 

butter, pepper, and salt, and grated bread crumbs over the top. 
Bake slightly in a flat dish or scollop shells. — Mrs. H. 

To Pickle Rock. 

Cut a rock-fish into pieces and put in a kettle with sufficient 
water to cover it. Put in a handful of salt, some white i)epper. 
one tablespoonftil allspice, a few cloves and mace. 

When the fish is nearly done, add a quart of vinegar. In 
putting away, use as much liquor as will cover it. — 3frs. tT. 

w. s. 

Baked Shad. 

Open the shad down the back, wash well and salt it ; wipe 
dry and rub inside and out with a little cayenne pepper. Pre- 
pare a stuffing of bread, seasoned with pepper, salt, thyme, or 
parsley, celery-seed, a little chopped onion, piece of butter, size 
of a walnut. 

Tie up the fish and put in a baking pan with one pint water 
(to a good sized fish) and butter, size of a hen's egg. Sprinkle 
with flour, baste well and bake slowly an hour and a half. — 
3frs. J. H. F. 

To Fky Shad. 

Clean and hang in a cool place. When ready to use wash 
thoroughly, cut up and sprinkle lightly with flour, pepper, salt, 
and fry with lard. — Mrs. H . 

To Roast Shad. 
Fill the inside with forcemeat, sew it up and tie it on a 
board, not pine, cover with bread crumbs, a little salt, and pep- 
per, and place before the tire. When done one side, turn it ; 
when sufficiently done, pull out the thread ; dish and serve with 
drawn butter and parsley. — Mrs. D. 

To Broil Shad. 
Clean, wash, and split the shad, and wipe it dry. 
Sprinkle with pepper and salt, and place it over a clear, alow 



POTTED SHAD — STURGEON CUTLET. 103 

fii-e, with the skin, do^vn so as to retain the juice; put on a 
clean gridiron, rub^^ad with lard. Turn it when nearly done ; 
take up, and season with a generous piece of butter, salt, and 
pepper to taste. — 3Irs. S. 

Potted Shad. 

Cut the fish as for frying; pack in a stone jar with layers of 
mixed spices, seasoning with salt; after the jar is filled, pour 
vinegar over ; cover tightly with a cloth. Put the jar in a large 
pot of water and boil until the fish is thoroughly done. 

A nice relish for tea. — Mrs. C L. T. 

To Barbecue a Shad. 
Split the back of the fish, pepper and salt it, and put on the 
gridiron with the skin down. 

Baste the upper side of the fish with butter ; brown a little 
piece of butter with a small quantity of flour, and when brown 
. add pepper, salt, and a little water. 
Dish in a tureen. — Mrs. J. W. S. 

Scolloped Sturgeon. 
Four pounds stm-geon, boiled ; when cold, pick to pieces and 
then wash and squeeze out the water. Make a mayonnaise 
dressing, using celery, cayenne pepper instead of black pepper, 
and salt. Serve on white lettuce leaves. — 3Irs. R. R. 

Sturgeon Cutlet. 

Remove all the fat from the fish ; cut it into steak pieces. 
Beat up the yolks of eggs enough to moisten the pieces well ; 
dip them into the beaten egg. Have ready a dish of grated 
bread crumbs (stale bread is best), then roll them in the bread 
crumbs and pepper them well. 

Prepare a vessel of melted lard, have it boiling hot, but not 
burnt; lay in the pieces of fish and cover with a lid. Turn 



104 BTIRGEON OB DRUM — COD-FISU HALLS. 

them over as they bro%via and remove the lid when they are 
nearly done. — Mrs. Dr. P. C. 

Stukgeox or Drum. 

Slice it like beefsteak, and roll iu a thin egg batter, and frv 
in hot lard. 

Chopped parsley and black pepper may be added, if liked. — 
Mrs. B., Suffolk. 

Baked Sturgeon; 
Wash the skin well, put in a pan and bake for three-quarters 
of an hour. Then take it out on a dish ; pierce it with a knife 
iQ several places. Make a stuffing of pot-meat, bread crumbs, 
onions, parsley, thyme, pepi)er, and salt, all chopped well 
together. Stuff the holes with the mixture and put the rest in 
the gravy ; return to the pan and bake until done. — Mrs. D. 

To Fry Perch. 
Sprinkle with salt and dredge with flour ; after a while dredge 
with flour the other side. When the lard boils hard, skim it 
well and put in the fish. Serve hot. — 3frs. ^V. 

To Fry Trout. 
Split the fish down the back, insert a tliin slice of fat pork. 
Squeeze lemon juice over it and fry brown. — Mrs. JT. I., La. 

Boiled Cod-flsh. 
Boil over a slow fire and skim frequently. Season with salt. 
Ciirnish with {)arsley and rings of hard boiled eggs, and serve 



CoD-Fisir Balls, 
One-fourth fish, to three-fourths potatoes, eggs eiKMigh to 
moisten. Season %vith pepper and salt, and fry brown. 



nantucket cod-fish to broil mackerel. 105 

Nantucket Cod-fish, 
Cxit the thick part out of a firm, white dried codfish, and soak it 
over night, then cut into veiy small pieces and parboil for a few 
minutes, changing the water until the fish remains but slightly 
Balbad. Drain oft' the water, leaving the fish in the saucepan. 
Pour over a little more milk than will cover it ; when it become.? 
heated, add a little butter and pepper, thicken with flour stirred 
smooth in milk. Stir constantly for a few minutes. 

To Dress Salt Cod-fish. 
Take one-third of a large fish ; soak it from three to four 
hours ; next, boiling it till thoroughly done, pick the meat fine, 
taking out all the bones. Then add : 

3 hard-boiled eggs, chopped fine. 
3 to 4 Irish potatoes, boiled and mashed. 
Mix all well together in a stewpan, with — 
1 teacup of hot water. 
Salt and mustard to the taste. 
Boil half an hour, and add a liberal supply of butter just 
before serving. If preferred, the salt and mustard need not be 
put in until during the cooking. — Mrs. A. C. 

Boiled Mackerel. 
WeU wash the fish, put it into nearly boiling water with one 
tablespoonful salt in it ; boil up qiiickly, then let it simmer 
gently for a quarter of an hour, and if the fish be xevy large, a 
few minutes longer. Serve in a hot dish. — Mrs. H. 

To Broil Mackerel. 
If the mackerel is fresh, after it is nicely scaled and cleaned, 
dry it ; pepper and salt and broil it on a gridii'on ; baste it with 
fi-esh butter. After it is broiled, put it on a hot dish, pour 
melted butter over it, and serve. If the fish is salt, pour boil- 
ing water over it, soak it several hours ; butter and pepper, and 
broil ; serve in the same way as the fresh. — Mrs. R. 



106 TO COOK SALT MACKEREL — SALJ£ON STEAK. 

To Cook Salt Mackerel. 
Soak the fish ovei* night in freyh water. In the morning 
drain off the water and place on a gridiron to broil, dressing 
with hot butter. — Mrs. 7\ 

Baked Salmon. 
When washed and dried, sprinkle over pepper and salt. 
Have ready in a baking-pan a small grating ; lay the fish on 
this, with bits of butter over it ; set in a hot oven, basting often 
and freely with butter. When nicely browned, butter a sheet 
of white paper and lay over it, to prevent its getting too dry ; 
when done and tender, place on a hot dish. Add to the gravy 
one teacupful milk, one tablespoonful pepper vinegar, pepper, 
salt, and a mashed Irish potato smoothly mixed iu ; boil, and 
po\ir over the fish. Sift over all browned cracker. Garnish 
with bleached tops of celery and curled parsley alternately. — 
Mrs. T. 

Boiled Salmon. 

After the fish has been cleaned and washed, dry it and sew it 
up in a cloth ; lay it in a fish-kettle, cover with warm water, 
and simmer until done and tender. Meanwhile have ready 
in a saucepan one pint cream, two tablespoonfuls fresh butter, 
salt, peppei-, minced parsley, and thyme ; let it boil \\\y once, 
not too quickly. Take the fish from the kettle, carefully unwrap 
it, lay it for a moment on a folded napkin to dry. Have ready 
a hot dish, lay the fish on it carefully, without breaking it, pour 
over the cream. Slice some hard-boiled eggs, and lay over the 
fish alternately with sliced lemon. Border the edges of the dish 
with curled parsley. — Mrs. S. T. 

Salmon Steak. 
When well dried, i)epper and salt, sift over j)0\vdered cracker, 
and lay upon a griiliron, which has been first greased with but- 
ter or lard, over hot coals. As soon as the side next to the five 
is broN^n, turn it by carefully slipping under it a batter-cake 



PICKLED SALMON — HAUNCH OF VENISON. 107 

turner and holding the fish on it with the other hand, lest it 
shoTxld break. When both sides are of a light brown, lav in a 
hot dish ; pepper and salt again ; pour over melted butter ; 
j)lace the cover on, and serve. — 3Irs. T. 

Pickled Salmon. 
Soak the salmon twenty-four hours, changing the water. Put 
it in boiling water, with a little vinegar. When done and 
cold, boil your vinegar with spice and pour on the fish. — Mrs. 
A. P. 

German Fish Stew. 
Put the fish in a kettle to boil. Stew together in a saucepan 
one onion chopped fine and a wine-glass of sweet oil ; when well 
done, pour them in with the fish. Then mix yolks of three 
eggs, juice of two lemons strained, one tablespoonful sifted flour. 
Beat these well together, and pour upon the fish when nearly 
done. Then add ginger, pepper, and salt to taste ; stew three 
or four minutes, after mixing all the ingredients. Oysters may 
be cooked by the same receipt, only substituting one quart oys- 
ters for the fish. — Mrs. A. D. 



GAME. 

Haunch of Yenison. 
Rub the venison over with pepper, salt, and butter. Repeat 
the rubbing. After it has been put in the oven, put in as much 
cold water as will prevent burning and draw the gravy. Stick 
five or six cloves in different parts of the venison. Add enough 
water to make sufiicient gravy. Just before dinnei*, put in a 
glass of red wine and a lump of butter rolled in flour, and lef 
it stew a little longer. — Mrs. T. 



108 VENISON HAUNCH TO BAEBECUE SQUIRREL. 

Yexison HaUXX'H. 

Prepare the venison as you would mutton. 

Put in a baking-pan, lard with a little bacon, add a pint of 
water, a gill of red wine, salt, and a little cayenne; pepper. 
Bake quickly, and serve with or without gravy. 

Stewed Venison. 
Cut in tolerably thick slices. Put in an oven with two 
spoonfuls of water and a piece of lard. Cook till nearly done, 
then pour off the gravy and baste it well with a large spoonful 
of butter, pepper, and salt. 

Stewed Venison. 
Slice cold venison in a chafing dish and add — 
A cup of water. 
A small teacup of red wine. 
A small teacup of currant jelly. 
A tablespoonful of butter. 
A teaspoonful of made mustard. 
A little yellow pickle. 
A little chopped celery. 
A little mushroom catsup. 
Salt and cayenne pepper to the taste. 
The same receipt will answer for cold mutton. — 3Irs. R. 
L. 0. 

To Barbecue Squirrel. 
Put some slices of fat bacon in an oven. Lay the squirrels 
on them and lay two slices of bacon on the top. Put them ir 
the oven and let them cook until done. Lay them on a dish 
and set near the fire. Take out the bacon, sprinkle one spoon- 
fal of flour in the gravy and let it brown. Then pour in one 
teacup of water, one tablespoonful of butter, and some tomato 
or walnut catsup. Let it :;ool, and then pour it over the 
squirrel. 



koast kabbit s'l'ewed rabbit. 109 

Roast Rabbit. 
Stew the rabbit. After boiling the haslet and liver, stew 
them with parsley, thyme, celery-seed, butter, salt, and pepper, 
for gravy. Soak a piece of loaf bread, a short time, in water. 
Mix with it the yolk of an egg and some butter, for stuffing ; 
then soak it in milk and cream. Sprinkle the inside of the 
rabbit with salt and pepper, fill it with the above dressing, sew 
it up, and roast or bake quickly. — Mrs. S. 

Barbecued Rabbit. 
Lay the rabbit in salt and water half an hour, scald with 
boiling water, wipe dry, grease with butter^ and sprinkle with 
pepper and a little salt. Lay it on the gridiron, turning often 
so that it may cook through and through, without becoming 
hard and dry. When brown, lay on a hot dish, butter plenti- 
fully on both sides, and add a little salt and pepper. Set in 
the oven, while preparing four teaspoonfuls of vinegar, one of 
made mustard, and one of currant jelly or brown sugar. Pour 
this over the rabbit, rubbing it in, then pour over the gravy 
and serve hot. — Irlrs. T. 

Stewed Rabbit. 
Gut up the rabbit and wash it. Put it in a stewpan and 
season it with salt and pepper. Pour in half a pint of water, 
and when this has nearly stewed away, add half a pint of Port 
'vine, two or three blades of mace, and a tablespoonful of flour, 
mixed with a quarter of a pound of butter. Let it stew gently 
till quite tendei-, and then serve hot. — Mrs. G. C. 

Stewed Habbit. 
Cut a rabbit into eight pieces. After soaking in salt and 
water, put it in a stewpan, with a slice of pork or bacon, and 
with more than enough water to cover it. When nearly done, 
take out the pieces, strain the water in which they have boiled, 
and return all to the stewpan, with a teacup of milk, a little 



110 WILD TUKKEY TO ROAST WILD FOWL IN A STOVE. 

pepper, salt, clioj)ped onion and parsley. After this boils up, 
stir in a heaping tablespoonful of butter, in which a tablespoon- 
ful of flour has been rubbed. Let it boil up once more ; then 
serve in a covered dish, with four hard-boiled eggs sliced over 
it, and grated bread crumbs. The same receipt will answer for 
squirrel. — Mrs. T. 

WiLL> Turkey. 
If the Uirkey is old, after it is dressed wash it inside thor- 
oughly with soda and water. Rinse it and plunge it into a pot 
of boiling water for five minutes. Make a stuffing of bits of 
pork, beef, or any other cold meat, plenty of chopped celery, 
stewed giblets, hard-boiled eggs, pounded cracker, pepper, and 
salt, and a heaping spoonful of butter. Work this well and fill 
the turkey. With another large spoonful of butter grease the 
bird, and then sprinkle salt and pepper over it. Lay in a pan, 
with a pint of stock or broth in which any kind of meat lias 
been boiled. Place in a hot oven. When it begins to brown, 
dredge with flour and baste, turning often, so that each part 
may be equally browned. Put a buttered sheet of paper over 
tlie breast, to prevent dryness. When thorouglily done, lay on 
a dish, brown some crackers, pound and sift over it, and serve 
with celery or oyster sai;ce. — 3Irs. T. 

A Sim.pler Way to Prepare Wild TxLrhey. 
Prepare the tui'key as usual, rub the inside witli salt and 
cayenne pepper, and put in the baking-pan, wiLli water enough 
to make gravy. Cut up the gizzard and liver with a lump of 
buttijr and a spoonful of cream. Mix with the gravy and serve 
hot 

To Roast Wild Fowl in a Stove. 
Put them on a rack above a pan, so that the gravy will drip 
through. This makes them as delicate as if roasted on a spit. 
If roasted in a pan, they will be exceedingly greasy and have 



WELD GOOSE — TO COOK WILD DUCK FOR BREAKFAST. Ill 
tlie stovey taste to which so many persons object. — Mrs. <T. 

Wild Goose. 

After the goose is dressed, soak it several hours iu salt and 
water. Put a small onion inside and plunge it into boiling 
water for twenty minutes. Stuff with chopped celery, chopped 
eggs, mashed potatoes, bits of fat pork or other cold meat ; a 
little butter ; raw turnip grated ; a tablespoonful of pejjper 
vinegar ; a little cho^iped onion ; pepper and salt to tlie taste. 

A teacup of stock or broth must be })ut in the pan with the 
fowl. Butter it, dredge with flour, and baste often. Pin a 
buttered paper over the breast to prevent its becoming hard. 
Sei-ve with mushroom or celery sauce, or, for a simpler taste, 
s6rve merely with its own gravy. — 3Irs. T. 

Wild Goose. 

Put a small onion inside, a slice of pork, pepper, salt, and a 
spoonful of red wine. 

Lay in a pan with water enough to make gravy. Dredge 
with floui", and baste with butter frequently. Cook qvucklj- 
and serve with gravy made as for wild turkey. 

Wild Duck. 

When the duck is ready dressed, put in it a small onion, 
pepper, salt, and a spoonful of red wine. Lay in a pan with 
water enough to make the gravy. Cook in fifteen or twenty 
minutes, if the fire is brisk. Serve with gi avy made as for 
wild turkey. 

Canvas-back ducks are cooked in the same way, only you 
leave on their heads and do not use onion with them. — Mrs. 
R. L. 0. 

To Cook Wild Duck for Breakfast. 
Split open in the back, put in a pan with a little water, bwt- 



112 TO BROIL PAKTRIDGKS To BROIL inGEONS. 

lex, pepper and salt, and cook till tender. Baste witli flour. If 
for dinner, cook whole.- — 3frs. tT. L. C. 

To Broil Partridges. 
Place tlieui in salt and water, an lionr or two before broiling. 
When taken out, wijje them dry, and rub them all over with 
fi-esh butter, pepper and salt. First bi-oil the under or split 
side on the gridiron, over bright, clear coals, turning until the 
upper side is of a fine, light brown. It must be cooked prin- 
cipally from the under side. When done, rub well again with 
fresh butter and if not ready to serve them immediately, put 
them in a large shallow tin bucket, cover it and set it over a 
pot or kettle of boiling water, which will keep them hot with- 
out making them hard or dry and will give time for the many 
" last things " to be done before serving a meal. When serveil, 
sift over them powdered ci'acker, first browned. — Mrs. T. 

To Boast Partridges. 
Clean th<! birds as for stuffing. Rub with butter, salt and 
pepper. Put in sheets of letter paper and allow to cook in this 
way.— J//-5. W. C. 

To Cook I'artridges and Pheasants. 

Place them in a steamer, over a ]:)0t of boiling water, till 
tender. 

Have ready a saucepan of large fresh oysters, scalded just 
enough to make them plump and seasoned with pepper-sauce, 
butter, and a little salt. Rub the cavity of the birds with salt 
and i)epper, fill with oysters and sew up. Broil till a light 
brown. Place on a hot dish and sift over them browned 
cracker. Add a large tablespoonful of butter and one of 
])0unded cracker to the oyster liquor. Boil it up once and 
pour into the dish, but not over the birds. — Mrs. T. 

To Broil Pigeons. 
Pigeons may be broiled the same as chickens, only cover the 



TO OOOK SORA, ORTOLANS. AND OTHER SMALL BIRDS. 113 

breast with slices of bacon. When nearly done, remove the 
bacon, dredge with flour and baste with butter. They will be 
done in half an hour. 

Stewed Pigeons. 
The pigeons must be seasoned with pepper, salt, cloves, mace 
and sweet herbs. Wrap the seasoning up in a piece of butter 
and put it in the pigeon. Then tie up the neck and vest and 
half roast the pigeons. Then put them in a stewpan with a 
quart of good gravy, a little white wine, some pickled mush- 
rooms, a few peppercorns, three or four blades of mace, a bit 
of lemon peel, a bit of onion and a bunch of sweet herbs. 
Stew until done, then thicken with butter and yolks of eggs. 

Garnish with lemon. 

Pigeon Pie. 

Take six young pigeons. After they are drawn, trussed, and 
singed, stuff them with the chopped livers mixed with parsley, 
salt, pepper, and a small jiiece of butter. Cover the bottom of 
the dish with rather small pieces of beef. Oa the beef, place a 
thin layer of chojjped parsley and mushrooms, seasoned with 
pepper and salt. Over this place tlie pigeons, between each 
putting the yolk of a hard-boiled egg. Add some brown sauce 
or gravy. Cover with puff paste and bake the pie for an hour 
and a half. — Mrs. C. C. 

To Dress Reed Birds. 
Pick open and carefully wash one dozen or more birds. 
Place them between the folds of a towel, and with a rolling-pin 
mash the bones quite flat. Season with salt and a littlo 
cayenne and black pepper. Either fry or broil on a gridiron 
made for broiling oysters. This must be done over a clear fire. 
When done, season, put a lump of butter on each bird and 
serve hot.— 7l/?-s. A. M. D. 

To Cook Sora, Ortolans, and Other Small Birds. 

Pr spare as you would a chicken for roasting. Lay in a pai) 

10 



114 MEATS. 

and pour boiling water over them or, if convenient, steam them. 
Scald a few large fresh oysters till just plump, season them with 
cayenne pepper, salt and butter. Pour into the cavity of each 
bird a few drops of pepper-sauce and then put a large oyster in 
each. Broil a short time, frequently turning that they may not 
become dry. If not ready to serve them as soon as they are 
done, lay in a tin bucket, butter them and sprinkle them 
again with black pepper, cover the bucket and set it over boil- 
ing water till wanted. When laid in the dish, sift browned 
cracker over the biids, and pour gravy into the dish. — 
Mrs. T. 

To Cook Sora, Ortolans, and Other Small J^irds. 
After they are split open in the back and dressed, lay them 
in weak salt and water for a short time. Then lay them on a 
board and roll witli a rolling-jjin to flatten the breastbone. 
Put butter, pe})per, and salt on them. Lay them on a gridiron 
and broil slowly. When just done, add more butter and pep- 
pex', lay in a flat tin bucket, which set over a vessel of boiling 
water to keep the birds hot, juicy, and tender till wanted. ^ — 
Mrs. T. 

Sora, Ortolans, Robins, and Other Small Birds. 
They should be carefully cleaned, buttered, sprinkled with 
pepper and salt, and broiled. When they are served, butter 
them again. If you like, serve each bird on a piece of toast, 
and pour over them a sauce of red wine, mushroom catsup, 
salt, cayenne pepper, and celery. 



MEATS. 

All meats are bettci- in winter for being kept several weeks. 
and it is well, in summer, to keep them as long as you can with 



MEATS. 1 15 

out danger of their being tainted. If it is not in your power to 
keep meat in an ice-house, in summer, keep it in a cool daik cellar, 
wrapped around with wet cloths, on top of which lay boughs of 
elderberry. The evaporation from the cloth will keep the meat 
cool and the elderberry will keep olf insects. 

If you should unfoi'tunately be obliged to use stale meat or 
poultry, rub it in and out with soda, before washing it. Tough 
meats and poultry are rendered more tender by putting a little 
vinegar or a few slices of lemon in the water in which they are 
boiled. The use of an acid will save time and fuel in cooking 
them and will render them more tender and digestible. 

If possible, keep the meat so clean that it will not be neces- 
sary to wash it, as water extracts the juices. When it is fro- 
zen, lay it in cold water to thaw, and then cook quickly, to pre- 
vent its losing its moisture and sweetness. 

In roasting or boiling, use but little salt at first, as it hardens 
meat to do otherwise. In roasting, baste frequently, to prevent 
die meat from hardening on the outside, and tx-y to preserve the 
juices. If possible, roast the meat on a spit before a large, open 
fire, after using salt, pepper, butter or lard, and dredging with 
flour. Where an open fire-place cannot be obtained, however, 
the meat may be well roasted in a stove or range. Muttoji, 
pork, shote and veal should be well done, but beef should be 
cooked rare. 

In boiling, put on salt meat in cold water, but fresh meat in 
hot. Remember also that salt meat requires more water and a 
longer time to cook than fresh. Boil slowly, removing the scum 
that rises when it begins to simmer. Keep a tea-kettle of boil- 
ing water at hand to replenish the water in the pot, as it boiLs 
away. Do not let the meat boil too hard or too long, as this 
will toughen it and extract the juices. Add salt m fresh meat) 
just before it is done. 

Lardering beef, veal, and poultry is a great improvement, 
keeping it moist whilst cooking and adding richness to the fla- 
vor. Lardering consists in introducing sli2:)S of clear fat bacon 



116 HOW TO SELECT MEATS. 

or salt pork, into the surface of meat, by means of a pin, sharp 
at one end and cleft into four divisions at the other. This pin 
may be obtained at any hardware store. 

As the housekeeper is sometimes hurried in preparing a disli, 
it will save time and trouble for her to keep on hand a bottle 
of meat-flavoring compounded of the following ingredients. 

2 chopped onions. 

3 pods of red pepper (chopped). 
2 tablesj^oonfuls brown sugar. 

1 tablespoonful celery seed. 

1 tablespoonful ground mustard. 

1 teaspoonful turmeric. 

1 teaspoonful bhick pepper. 

1 teaspoonful salt. 
Put all in a quart bottle and fill it up with cider vinegar. A 
tablespoonful of this mixed in a stew, steak, or gravy, will im- 
part not only a fine flavor, but a rich color. Kee[)ing tliis mixt- 
iire on hand will obviate the necessity of the housekeeper look- 
ing througli various spice boxes and packages to get together 
the requisite ingredients for flavoring, and will thus save her 
time and trouble. 

How TO Select Meats. 
Good and wholesome meat should be neither of a pale rosy or 
pink color, nor of a deep purple. The first denotes the diseased 
condition, the last pi-oves the animal has died a natural death. 
Good meat has more of a marble look, in consequence of the 
bi'anching of the veins which surround the adipose cells. The 
fat, especially of the inner organs, is always firm and suety and 
never moist, while in general the fat from diseased cattle is 
flabby and watery and more often resembles jelly or boiled 
])archment. Wholesome meat will always show itself firm and 
elastic to the touch, and exibit no dampness, while bad meal 
will ajipear soft and moist, in fact, often more wet, so that the 
liquid substance runs out of the blood when pressed hari. 



OBSERVATIONS ON PORK, CURING BACON, i fC. 117 

Good meat has very little smell and diffuses a certain medicinal 
odor. This can be distinctly proved by cutting the meat through 
with a knife and smelling the blade or pouring water over it. 
Lastly, bad meat has the peculiarity that it slninks considera- 
bly in the boiling, wholesome meat rather swells and does not 
lose an ounce in weight. 

Observations on Pork, Curing Bacon, etc. 
Hogs weighing from 150 to 200 pounds are the most suitable 
size for family use. They should not exceed twelve months in 
age, as they are much more tender from being young. They 
should be well kept and .should be corn-fed several weeks before 
being killed. After being properly dressed, they should hang 
long enough to get rid of the animal heat. When they are 
I'eady to be cut up, they should be divided into nine j^i'incipal 
parts, two hams, two shoulders, two middlings, the head or face, 
jowl and chine. The hog is laid on its back to be cut up. The 
head is cut off just below the ears, then it is split down on each 
side of the backbone, which is the chine. This is divided into 
three pieces, the upper portion being a choice })iece to be eaten 
cold. The fat portion may be cut off to make lard. Each half 
should then first have the leaf fat taken out, which is done by 
cutting the thin skin between it and the ribs, wlien it is easily 
pulled out. Just under this, the next thing to be removed is 
the mousepiece or tenderloin, lying along the edge, from which 
the backbone was i-emoved, commencing at the point of the 
ham. This is considered the most delicate part and is used to 
make the nicest sausage. Just under this tenderloin are some 
short ribs about three inches long, running up from the [)oint of 
the ham which are known as the griskin. This is i-enioved by a 
sharj) knife being I'un under it, taking care to cut it smooth and 
not too thick. When broiled, it is as nice as a partridge. 

The ribs are next taken out of the shoulder and middling, 
though some jMn'sons prefer leaving them in the middling. In 
this case seven should be taken from the shouhlex-, by a sharj- 



118 OBSERVATIONS ON PORK, CURING BACv>N, ETC. 

knife cutting close to the ribs, which make a delicious broil. 
Then cut off the ham as near the bone as possible, in a half 
circle. The shoulder is then cut square across just behind the 
leg. The feet are then chopped off with a sharp axe or cleaver. 
From the shoulder, they should be cut off leaving a stump of 
about two inches. From the ham, they should be cut off at the 
joint, as smoothly as possible, and then you may proceed to sah 
the meat. 

In oi'der to impart redness to the hams, rub on each a tea- 
spoonful of pulverized saltpetre before salting. If the weather 
is very cold, warm the salt befoi'e applying it. First rub the 
skin side well with salt and then the fleshy side, using for the 
purpose a shoe-sole or leather glove. No more salt should be 
used than a sufficiency to preserve the meat, as an excess hard- 
ens the meat. A bushel of salt is sufficient for a thousand 
pounds of meat. For the chine and ribs a very light sprinkling 
of salt will suffice. 

The meat as salted should be packed with the skin side down, 
where it should remain from four to six weeks, according to the 
weather. If the weather is mild, four weeks will answer. 
Should the weather be very cold and the pork in an exposed 
place, it will freeze, and the salt, failing to penetrate the meat, 
will be apt to injure it. 

After it has taken salt sufficiently, the old Virginia mode is 
to break the bulk, shake off the salt, rub the joint pieces (hams 
and shoulders) with good, green-wood a.shes (hickory preferred). 
Then rebulk it and let it remain two weeks longer, when it 
should be hung up with the joints down and the other pieces 
may be hung up for smoking at the same time. It is not neces- 
sary that the smoke-house should be very tight, but it is impor- 
tant that the pork should not be very close to the fire, 

A smothered fire made of small oillets of wood or chips (hick- 
ory preferred), or of corn cobs, should be made up three times 
a day till the middle of March or first of April, when the joint 
pieces should be taken down and packed in hickory or othei 



POKK STEAK SPARE-KLBS. 119 

green-wood aslies, as in salt, where they will remain all the sum- 
mer without danger of bugs interfering with them. 

This recipe has been obtained from an old Virginia family, 
famous for their skill in this department of housekeeping. 
This mode of curing makes the best bacon in the world, far 
superior to what are generally called Virginia cured hams. 

Shoat (which I must explain to the uninitiated is a term aj)- 
plied in the South to a young pig past the age when it may be 
cooked whole) should be kept up and fattened on buttermilk, 
several weeks before being killed, as this makes the flesh ex- 
tremely delicate. It is best killed when between two and three 
iQonths old. It should then be divided into four quarters. It 
is more delicate and wholesome eaten cold. 

Pork Steak. 

Remove the skin, beat without breaking into holes ; scald 
with boiling water, wipe dry and broil. When brown lay in a 
hot dish. Sprinkle over pepper, salt, a little sage, ciiojjj^ed 
onion, and parsley ; then butter profusely. 

Grate over all hard biscuit or crackers that have been browneid 
and serve. — 3Irs. S. T. 

Spare-ribs. 
Pork chop and pork cutlet may be cooked in the same way, 
omitting the onion if not liked. — Mrs T. 

Pork Spare-rib. 
With stuffing of sage and onions, roasted spare-rib, done 
over the potatoes, aftbrds a good substitute for goose. 

Spare RIBS. 
A.lways parboil spare-ribs : then broil with pepper and salt * 
cut in pieces three or four bones each. — -Mrs. W. 

Sjyare-Ribs, 
Cut them into pieces of two or three ribs each ; put them 



120 TO COOK SPARE-RIBS AND GRISKLN OR SHORT RIBS. 

into a covered stewpan and boil or stew until perfectly done. 
Just before you take them out, add salt, pei^per, and minced 
parsley. 

Put on the cover and simmei- until well seasoned. 

Take thera out of the pan, diain and dry them. For one 
moment let them scorch on a gridiron over a bed of hot coals ; 
lay on a hot dish ; butter each one ; pepper added ; sift over 
browned cracker and serve. — 3frs. S. T. 

To Cook Spare-ribs and Griskin or Short-ribs. 
Put them on in a small quantity of water and boil for fifteen 
or twenty minutes. Gash them with a knife ; sprinkle with 
pepper and put them on a hot gridiron as near the fire as possi- 
ble ; broil quickly, but not too brown. Have some butter 
melted and pour over the meat and shut it up in the dish. 
These are good for breakfast. — Mrs. P. W. 

To Cook Backbone or Chine. 

Cut the chine in three pieces ; the large end must be about 
a foot long, the remainder cut in half. Put it in a pot of 
water and boil for two hours ; then put it in a pan, baste and 
set it in the stove to brown. Peel some Irish potatoes and put 
them in the pot ; boil till done, mash them up and season with 
pepper, a little salt, and some of the gravy dripi)ing out of the 
chine while baking; spread them in the dish, then lay the chine 
on top. The largest piece is generally put aside to eat cold, 
and is very nice. Turnips are good, cooked in the same wayoas 
potatoes, with the chine. 

The dune and ham of a hog are nice, corned like beef. — Mrs. 

P. W. 

Backbone Pie. 

Take the smallest end of the backbone, cut in pieces two or 
three inches long ; put in water and boil until done. Make 
riice rich 2)astry as for chicken pie ; line the sides of a baking 
dish with the pastry, put in the bones, adding some water ui 



TO COOK A HAM OF POKK KOAST CHINE. 121 

which they were boiled ; also salt, butter, and pepper to taste, 
with bits of pastry. 

Cover top of baking-dish with pastry ; put iu stove and 
brown nicely. — 3Irs. G. JB. 

To Cook a Ham of Pork. 

Wash off the salt and put it in a pot of water ; boil from 

four to six hours, according to si^^e. Do not take oflF the skin, 

as it preserves the juice and is much better cold. It is also 

nice to slice and broil with pepper and butter over it. — Mrs. 

I", w. 

Leg of Pork Stuffed. 

Make deep incisions in the meat pai-allel to the bone, trim it 
so as to leave the skin longer than the flesh ; then boil some pota- 
toes, and when they are done, mash them with a piece of but- 
ter, cayenne pepper and salt, an onion finely chopped, and a 
little rubbed sage. 

With this dressing fill the incisions, draw the skin down and 
skewer it over to keep the dressing from falling out. Season 
the outside of the meat with salt, cayenne pepper and sage. 

Roast it slowly ; when done, pour the gravy in a pan, skim 
off the fat and add some browned flour wet in a little cold 
water, and boil up once. 

Serve with apple or cranberry sauce. — 3frs. A. M. D. 

To Dress Chine. 

Rub the large end with salt and saltpetre, and it will keep 
some time, or you may boil it fresh. Cut the bones of the 
other end apart, sprinkle with flour and a little salt : add one 
teacup of water, and stew. 

It will make two large dishes. — Mrs. IF! 

Roast Chine. 
Chine should always be parboiled and stewed before roasting, 
to take away the gross taste which the melted fat frying fi'om 

11 



122 PORK ROYAL — SAUSAGE MEAT. 

it gives. After tiiis lay in the pan with one pint water in 
which it was boiled, from which all the fat has been skimmeii. 
Piit in this several whole leaves of sage, to be removed before 
serving— just to get the flavor; minced onion, and parsley. 

Baste and brown quickly that it may not dry. 

This is only stewed chine browned. — Mrs. S. T. 

Pork Royal. 
Take a piece of shoulder of fresh pork, fill with grated bread 
and the crust soaked, pepper, salt, onion, sage and thyme : a 
bit of butter and lard. Place in a pan with some water ; when 
about half done, place around it some large apples ; when done, 
place your pork on a dish, with the apples round it ; put flour 
and water on your pan, flour browned, some thyme and sage ; 
boil, strain through a very small colander over your pork and 
apples. 

Seasoning for Sausage. 

18 pounds meat. 

9 pounds back fat. 

2 ounces sage. 

4 ounces black pejiper. 
12 ounces salt. — Mrs. J. P. 

Excellent Recipe for Sausage. 
12 pounds of the lean of the chine. 
6 pounds " " fat. 
5 tablespoonfuls salt. 
G " sage. 

2 '< thyme. 
5 " peppei-. 

3 " sweet marjoram. 
Mix well together. — Mrs. S. M. 

Sausage Meat. 
25 pounds lean pieces cut from the shoulder and tender- 
loin. 



SWEETBREAD OF HOG — SOUSE CHEESE. 123 

15 pounds fat from the back of the chine. 
1 pound salt ; a half pound of black pepper. 
4 ounces allspice. 
1 ounce sage. 
Cut the fat in small pieces and then chop it ; chop the lean 
very fine ; mix all together, kneading in the seasoning. Press 
it down in small pots and pour melted lard over the top. — Mrs. 
J. D, 

Sweetbread of Hog. 

This nice morsel is between the maw and ruffle piece inside 
of the hog. Put them in soak for a day ; parboil them and 
then gash them and stew theiu in pepper, butter, one teacup of 
milk and a little vinegar. 

Or they are very nice fried or broiled. — Mrs. P. W. 

Souse Cheese. 

Lay the meat in cold water as cut from the hog. Let it stand 
three or four days, shifting the water each day. Scrape it and 
let it stand a day or two longer,changing the water often, and if 
it should turn warm, jjour a little salt in the water. The often- 
er it is scraped, the whiter will be the souse. Boil in plenty 
of water to cover it, replenishing when needed. When tender 
enough, put it in milk-warm water, and when cold in saltwater. 
Boil the head until the bones will almost fall oiit. Clean one 
dozen or more ears and boil also ; while hot, chop veiy fine, and 
season witli pepper and salt. 

Put in a mold or bowl with a weight on top. The feet rnay 
be soused whole, or cut up with the head and ears ; but it is 
not so nice. Clean them by dipping in boiling water and scrap- 
ing ; do not hold them to the fire to singe off the hair. One 
head and one dozen ears will make a good-sized cheese. — 
Mrs. W. 

To Make Souse from Hog's Feet. 

As soon as the hog is cleaned, cut off the feet and throw their 



124 TO CURE LAUD VIRGINIA MODE OF CURING HAMS, 

ill a tub of cold water with a handful of salt ; let them remain 
covered in water until you are ready to clean them, which should 
be done as soon as possible, as they will be much whiter. To 
get the hoof off, put the feet in hot water (not above the hoof) ; 
as soon as they get hot enough, slip a knife between the foot 
and hoof, and slip it off; then scrape the foot nicely, and throw 
into a tub of clear water ; do this for several days. When you 
have scraped and changed the water for a week, then wash them 
clean and put them on to boil. First put them in a clean pot 
with a thin gruel made of corn meal ; boil until half done. 
Wash them off, and put on in clear hot water, and boil till done, 
then take them up and throw them into a firkin of clean salt 
and water ; keep closely covered to prevent them from molding. 
They are now ready to fry, which should be done by splitting 
the foot in half and fried in egg batter. — Mrs. P. W. 

To Cure Lard. 

As soon as it is taken from the hog, cut in small pieces, wash 
clean, press out the water, and put in the pot to boil, with one 
gallon of water to a vessel holding four gallons. Boil briskly 
until nearly done, or until the cracklins begin to brown, then 
cook slowly to prevent burning. The cracklins should be of a 
light brown and crisp, and will sink to the bottom when done. 
This is Leaf Lard. 

The fat off of the backbone is also very nice, done in the same 
way, and does not require soaking, unless bloody. The fat from 
the entrails can also be made into nice lard by soaking for a day 
or two in fresh water, changing it frequently, and throwing a 
liandful of salt in the tub of water to draw out the blood and 
impurities. When ready to render, wash in warm water twice 
and boil in more water than you do for leaf lard. The crack- 
lins will not become crisp, but remain soft, and will sink to 
the bottom ; they are used for making soap. 

Virginia Mode of Curing Hams. 
Put one teaspoonful saltpetre on the fleshy side of each ham. 



TO CURE BACON — FOK CUEING HAMS. 125 

Salt not too heavily for five weeks ; if the weather is freezing 
cold, six weeks ; then brush the hams well, and rub them with 
hickory ashes ; let them lie for one week, then hang and smoke 
them for six weeks with green hickory chips. After brushing, 
pack them in hickory ashes in a bulk. — JJ/rs. P. C. M. 

To Cure Bacon. 
Pack the meat in salt and allow it to I'emain five weeks. 
Then take the hams up, wash off, and wipe dry. Have some 
sacks made of about seven-eighths shirting, large enough to hold 
the hams and tie above the hock. Make a pot of sizing of 
equal portions of flour and corn meal, boil until thick, and dip 
each sack until the outside is well coated with sizing. Put 
tliQ hams in bags, and tie tight with a strong twine and hang by 
the same in the smoke-house. 

Curing Bacon. 
One peck salt to five hundred pounds pork. To five gallons 
water : 

4 pounds salt. 
1 pound sugar. 
1 pint molasses. 
1 teaspoonful saltpetre. 
Mix, and after sprinkling the fleshy side of the ham with tho 
.salt, pack in a tight ban-el. Hams fiist, then shoulders, mid- 
dlings. Pour over the brine ; leave the meat in brine from four 
to seven weeks. — Mrs. Dr. JT. 

For Curing Hams. 
For five hundred pounds hams. 

1 peck and 1-J- gallons fine Liverpool salt. 

If pounds saltpetre. 

1 quart hickory ashes well sifted. 

1 quart molasses. 



126 AN mPKOVEMENT TO HAMS — TO BOIL HAM. 

2 teacups cayenne pepper. 

1 teacup black pepper. 
Mix these ingredients well together in a large tub, rub it 
into each ham with a brick, or something rough to get it in 
well. Pack in a tight, clean tub and weigh down. Let the 
hams remain six weeks ; then take them out and rub each one 
on the fleshy side with one tablespoonful black pepper to avoid 
skippers. Hang in the meat house, and smoke with green 
hickory for from ten to twelve hours a day for six weeks, not 
suffering the wood to blaze. On the 1st of April, take them 
down and pack in any coal ashes or pine ashes well slaked. 
Strong ashes will rot into the meat. — Mrs. R. M. 

An Improvement to Hams. 
Sometimes very good bacon is found to be of a bad color 
when cooked. This may be remedied by keeping it in ashes 
(hickory is best) for a few weeks before using. Must then be 
hung up, with ashes adhering, until needed. This also prevents 
skippers. — Mrs. S. T. 

To Boil a Ham Weighing Ten Pounds. 
Let it soak for twenty-four hours, changing the water two or 
three times. Boil it slowly eight or ten hours : when done, put 
it into a dish, as nearly as possible the shape of a ham, taking 
care first to take out the bone — turn the rind down. When 
cold, turn it out into a large dish, garnish with jelly and orna- 
mental paper. Serve with the rind on. To be eaten cold. — 
Mrs. W. C. R. 

To Boil Ham. 

Put in the water one pint vinegar, a bay leaf, a little thyme, 
and parsley. 

Boil slowly for two hours, if it weighs ten pounds ; then 
bake. Soak all hams twenty-four hours before cooking.— 
Mrs. M. 



TO BOIL PFAM — BAKED HAM OR TONGUE. 127 

To lio'il Sam. 
The day before you wish to boil a liani, scrape, wash and 
wipe it diy, and put it in the sun. At night put it into water 
and soak till next morning. Then lay it with the skin down 
in a boiler of cold water, and boil slowly for five hours. If the 
ham is large, boil six lioiirs. When perfectly done and tender, 
set the boiler aside, with the ham and liquor undisturbed, until 
cold. Then take off the skin, sprinkle black pepper over 
thickly, and sift over crackers first browned and pounded ; for 
si)ecial occasions, place at equal distances over the ham, scraped 
horseradish in lozenge shape, and edged with curled parsley. 
This mode keeps the ham juicy. — Mrs. 8. T. 

^ Baked Ham. 

First of all, soak an old ham overnight, having first washed 
and scraped it. Next morning pvit in a boiler of milk-warm 
water with the skin side down. Boil slowly for four or five 
hours, according to size, and if a very large ham, six hours. 
When done, set aside, the boiler with the ham and liquor in it, 
to remain until cold ; when the skin must be taken off", and it 
must be trimmed of a nice shape. Sprinkle over two tablespoon- 
fvils black pepper. Lay the ham on a grating or twist in the 
baking-pan, in which pour a pint of water, and set it in a hot 
oven. This mode prevents the frying so disagreeable to the 
taste. After the ham is heated through, and the pepper strikes 
in, sift over cracker ; return to the oven and brown, then dec- 
orate with scraped horseradish and parsley, and serve. — Mrs. 

jS. t. 

Baked Ham or Tongues. 

Boil the ham and grate some powdered ci-acker thickly over 
it ; first rubbing it with beaten yolk of egg. Bake with butter. 
Lay slices of currant jelly around the tongue, and garnish the 
ham wit) I parsley. — Jl/rs. H. 



128 BA.KED HAM TO STUFF FRESH CURED HAM. 

JBciked Ham. 
Most persons boil ham, but it is much better if baked prop- 
erly. Soak it for an hour in clean water and wipe dry ; next 
spread it all over with a thin batter, put it into a deep dish 
with sticks under it to keep it out of the gravy. When it is 
fully done, take off the skin and batter crusted upon the flesh 
side and set it away to cool. — Mrs. JB. «/] S. 

Stuffed and Baked Ham. 

After your ham is boiled, take the skin off. Take pepper, all- 
spice, cloves and mace, well pounded; add a little bread 
crumbs, and a little brown sugar ; mix with a little butter and 
water. 

Gash your ham and take out plugs ; fill in with the mixture. 
Rub tlie ham with an egg beaten, and grate on bread crumbs 
and white sugar. 

Put in the oven and brown. — Mrs. D. R. 

To Stuff Fresh Cured Ham. 

Boil the ham. 

Take one-half pound grated cracker or bread. 

\ pound butter. 

1 teaspoonful spice. 

1 teaspoonful cloves. 

1 teaspoonful nutmeg. 

1 teaspoonful ginger. 

1 teaspoonful mace. 

3 spoonfuls sugar. 

Celery-seed or celery. 

6 eggs, beaten light. 

1 spoonful mustard. 
Mix all well together and moisten with cream, if too stiff. 
Whilst the ham is hot, make holes to the bone and fill witli tliis 
mLxture. Put in the stove to brown. 



spioed ham — bacon and greens. 129 

Spiced Ham. 
Salt the hams for two days ; put them in a keg and for each 
ham add : 

^ cup molasses. 
1 tablespoonful spice. 
1 tablespoonful black pepper. 
A pinch of saltpetre. 
Let them stand four days, turning each day, then hang them 
up. — Mrs. D. R. 

Broiled Ham. 
To have this dish in a perfection, ham must first be soaked, 
then boiled nearly done, and set aside to take slices from, as 
wanted. Cut rather thin, lay on a gridiron over hot coals ; 
■When hot through, lay on a dish, and pepper well. Pour over 
fresh butter melted, and serve. If a raw ham is used, the 
slices must be cut thicker, dropped in a pan of boiling water for 
a few minutes, then broiled as above. — Mrs. S. T. 

Fried Ham. 
The slices are always taken from a raw ham, but are most 
delicate when first simmered a short time : five minutes in a 
stewpan, dried with a clean cloth and put in a hot frying-pan, 
first removing the skin. The jjan must be hot enough to 
sco)-ch and brown both ham and gravy quickly. Lay the 
slices on a hot dish, pour into the gravy half a teacup new 
milk, pepper, and minced parsley ; boil up and serve. — Mrs. 

S. T. 

Shoulder of Bacon. 

This piece is not used until cured or smoked, it is then 
boiled with cabbage or salad, as you would the middling. It is 
inferior to the ham or middling. — Mrs. P. W. 

Bacon and Greens. 
The middling is generally used for this purpose : cut a piece 
about a foot square, boil three hours. 



130 FRIED BACON PICKLED PORK EQUAL TO FRESH. 

Take a good head of cabbage, cut, quarter, and wash clean ; 
press the water out as dry as you can. Boil them one or two 
hours with half a pod of red ])epper ; put them on a dish and 
the middling on top. You can fry the cabbage next day, and 
make a savory dish, but it does not suit dyspejjtics. The thiu 
part of the middling is used for frying, and is called " breakfast 
bacon."— Jl/rs. P. W. 

Fried Bacon. 
Dip the ham or slices of middling in bread crumbs. Put in 
a frying-pan with cliojjped parsley and pepper. Just before 
taking off the fire, pour to the gravy a cup of cream. — 
Mrs. W. 

Jowl and Turnip Salad. 

This is an old Virginia dish, and much used in the spring of 
the year. 

The jowl, which must have been well smoked, must be washed 
clean, and boiled for three hours. Put in the salad, and boil 
half an hour ; if you boil too long, it will turn yellow. It is 
also good broiled for breakfast with pepper and butter over it. 

The jaw-bone should be removed before sending to the table; 
this is easily done by running a knife around the lip and under 
the tongue. The jowl and salad should always be served with 
fresh poached eggs. — 3Irs. P. W. 

Pickled Pork Equal to Fresh. 
Let the meat cool thoroughly ; cut into pieces four to six 
inches wide, weigh them and pack them as tight as possible in 
a barrel, salting very slightly. Cover the meat with brine made 
as strong as possible. Pour off a gallon of brine and mix with 
it one tablespoonful saltpetre for every 100 pounds meat and 
i*etui*n it to the barrel. Let it stand one month, then take out 
the meat, let it drain twelve hours. Put the brine in an iron 
kettle, anvl one quart treacle or two pounds sugar, and boil 



HOW TO COOK SALT PORK POrrKD TONGUK OR HAM. 131 

until perfectly clear. When it is cold, return the meat to the 
barrel and pour on the brine. Weight it down and keep ii 
covered, close, and you will have the sweetest meat you ever 
tasted. 

How TO Cook Salt Pork. 
Many people do not relish salt pork fried, but it is quite 
good to soak it in milk two or three hours, then roll in Indian 
meal and fry to a light brown. This makes a good dish wioh 
mashed turnij)S, or raw onions cut in vinegar ; another way is 
to soak it over night in skimmed milk and bake like fresh 
pork ; it is almost as good as fresh roast pork. 

Ham Toast. 
, Minoe about one pint boiled loan ham. 

Add the yolks of three eggs well beaten, two tablespoonfuls 
cream, and a little cayenne pepper. 

Stir all on the fire until it thickens, and spread on hot toast 
with the crust cut off. — Mrs. J. T. B. 

Ham Toast. 

Chop very fine two spoonfuls of lean ham that has been 
cooked ; take two spoonfuls veal gravy ; a few bread crumbs. 

Put all together in a stewpau and heat it. Have ready a 
toast buttered, spread the above upon it, strew a few bread 
crumbs over it and brown it before the fire. — Mrs. S. 

Ham Relish. 

Cut a slice of dressed ham, season it highly with cayenne 
pepper and broil it brown ; then spread mustard over it, squeeze 
on it a little lemon juice, and serve quickly. 

Potted Tongue or Ham. 
Remove all skin, gristle, and outside parts from one pound 
of the lean of cold boiled tongue or ham. 

Pound it in a mortar to a smooth paste with eiiher one- 



132 TO ROAST SHCAT TO BARBACUE SHOAT. 

quarter pouud of tiie fat, or with two ounces fresh butter , 
Season with cayenne, pounded mace and allspice. 

Press it well into pots and cover with clarified butter or fat. 

To Roast Shoat. 
The hind-quarter is considered best. Cut off the foot, leav- 
ing the hock quite short. Wash well and ])ut into boiling 
water ; simmer until done, adding salt and pepper just before 
lifting from the kettle ; salt put in sooner hardens and toughens. 
Place the meat in a baking-pan and score across, in the direction 
in which it is to be carved. Skim several ladlefuls from the 
top of the kettle and [)our over ; after this has dried off, 
sprinkle over a little salt and pepper, cover with an egg beaten 
stiflf, sift over powdered cracker, and set to brown. Lay around 
sweet potatoes first parboiled, then cut in thick slices. Serve 
with minced parsley and thyme, both on the meat and in the 
gravy. — Mrs. S. T. 

To Roast a Fore Quarter of Shoat. 
Put it on in hot water, boil for half an hour; take it out, 
put in a pan, gash it across with a sharp knife, in diamond 
shape.s, grease it with lard and dredge with flour, jiepper and a 
little salt. Peel some good Irish potatoes, lay them ai-ound the 
pan and set in the stove to brown, basting frequently. This 
meat should be cooked done, as it is not good the least 
lare. Grate some bread crumbs over it and serve. — Mrs. 

P. w. 

To Barbecue Shoat. 
Lay the shoat in water till ready for use ; if small, it will 
cook in an hour. Put in the oven with two spoonfids of water, 
a piece of lard, and dredge with flour. When ready for use, 
pour in half a teacuj) of walnut catsup, and, if not fat, a pieco 
of butter. 



shoat jowl roast pig. is3 

Shoat Jowl. 
The upper half of the head is what is generally used for 
what is called " The Pig's-head Stew." Another nice dish may 
be made of the under jaw or jowl by parboiling iintil the jaw- 
bone can be taken out; always adding pepper and salt just 
before it is done. When perfectly tender, score across ; pepper 
and salt again, cover with beaten egg, then with cracker. Set 
in a pan with some of the water in which it was boiled. Put 
in a hot oven and brown. — 3frs. S. T. 

Roast Pig. 

When roasted whole, a pig should not be under four nor over 
six weeks old. In town, the butcher prepares for roasting, 
but it is well to know, in the country, how this may be done. 
As soon as the pig is killed, throw it into a tub of cold water, 
to make it tender ; as soon as cold, take it by the hind leg, and 
plunge into scalding, not boiling water (as the last cooks the 
skin so that the hair can with difficulty be reuioved), shake it 
about until the hair can be removed by tlie handful. When all 
that is possible has been taken off in this way, rub from the 
tail up to the end of the nose with a coarse cloth. Take off 
the hoofs, scrape and wash the ears and nose until perfectly 
clean. The nicest way to dress it is to hang it by the hind 
legs, open and take out the entrails ; wash well with water, 
with a little soda dissolved i)) it; linse again and again, and 
leave hanging an hour. Wrap in a coayse cloth wrung out o* 
cold water and lay on ice or in a cool cellar until next morning, 
when, if the weather is warm, it must be cooked. It should 
never be used the same day that it is killed. 

First prepare the stuffing of the liver, heart and haslets of 
the pig, stewed, seasoned, and choj^ped. Mix with these an 
equal quantity of boiled potatoes mashed ; add a large spoonful 
of butter, with some hard-boiled eggs, parsley and thyme, 
chopped fine, pepper and salt. 

Scald the pig on the inside, dry ic and rub with pepper and 



1 3-i TO STEW pig's head AND JOWL -SHOAt's HEAD. 

salt, fill and sew up. Bend the fore legs undei- the body, the 
hind legs forward, under tlie pig, and skewer to keep in position. 
Place in a large baking-pan, i)0ur over one quart of boiling 
water. Have a luni]) of fresh butter tied up in a clean I'ag ; 
rub it all over the pig, then sprinkle over pepper and salt, put- 
ting some in the pan with a bunch of herbs ; invert over it a 
baking-pan while it simmers, and st(»ain until entirely done. Un- 
derdone })Ork, shoat, or pig, is both unpalatable and unwhole- 
some. Remove tlie ])an, rub over with the butter and baste 
often. When of a fine brown, cover the edges of a large dish 
with a deep fringe of curled 2)arsley ; first sift over the pig pow- 
dered cracker, then place it, kneeling, in the green bed. Place 
in its mouth an orange or a red ajjple ; and, if eaten hot, serve 
with the gra\ y in a tureen or sauce-boat. It is nruch nicer 
cold ; served with little mounds of grated horseradish amongst 
the parsley. — Jlrs. fS. T. 

To Stew Pig's Head and Jowl. 

Clean the head and feet ; take out the bone above the nose ; 
cut ofi" the ears, clean them nicely. Separate the jowl from the 
head ; take care of the brains to add to the stew. Put the head, 
jowl, feet and part of tlie liver in water sufficient to keep 
well covered ; boil until quite done. Sj)lit the feet to put on 
the dish ; hash tlie head and liver ; but do not spoil the jowl, 
which must be j)ut in the middle of the dish and surrounded 
with the feet and hash. Put all of the hash, jowl and feet in 
the pot and season with a cup of cream, a lump of butter, pep- 
per and salt, a tablespoonful walnut catsup, an onion chopped 
fine, a stalk of celery. 

A teaspoonful mustard improves it. 

Stew half an hour ; thicken the gravy with grated bread. — 
Mrs. P. W. 

Shoat's Head. 

Get a shoat's head and clean it nicely. Boil and chop iii 
pieces. Season with : 



SHOAt's head, to stew TO HASH PIG's HEAD. 135 

2 tablespoonfuls tomato catsup. 

2 tablespoonfuls walnut catsup. 

2 cups water. 

A little flour. 

1 large spoonful butter. 

Pe])per and salt. 
Have two or three hard-])oil('d eggs, cut tliem in half and lav 
on the top of the head ; set it in the oven to bake. 

Veal or mutton head, can be cooked in tlie same way, but 
are not so nice.- — 3frs. R. 

Shoat's Head, to Stew. 

Clean the head and feet ; and put them on to parboil with 
the liver. Then split u[) tlie licad, through the nose, taking 
out the bones. Cut the meat from the feet and chop up witli 
the liver, season this with pe[)per and salt. 

Lay the head open and fill it witli this mince and the yolk:-- 
of some hai-d-boiled eggs: if tliis does not till the head, add 
some grated bread crumbs or crackers and butter. 

Sew up the head and V)ind it witli tlin^ad; jmt it in the j)0t 
with the water it has been parboiled in and let it stew slowly. 
Take up the head, and add to the gia\y a lump of butter, rolled 
in flour, some browning and sDUie walnut cat.suj). I'our this 
over the head, which should be Itroun. If the shoat is not 
very small, use bread and butter instead of the liver. — ^Irs. Jl. 

To Hash Pig's H?:ad. 
Take head, feet, and haslet of pig; boil them until done, then 
cut them up fine, taking out the bones. 

Add black pepper, salt, a little sage. 
2 onions chopped fine. 
A little red i)epp 
1 teaspoonfvd mace. 
1 teaspoonful cloves. 
Put it back in the same vessel with liquor and cook till 



136 BEEF AND VEAL, 

done, then thicken with a little flour. Add two hard-boiled 
eggs and one cup walnut catsup. — Mrs. Dr. <T. 



BEEF AND VEAL. 

In selecting beef, see that the flesli is firm and of a clear red. 
and the fat of a yellowish white. In buying a quarter of beef, 
it is better to have it cut up by the butcher, if you are living 
in town. The hind quarter is considered better, and sells higher 
than the fore quarter. If a roasting piece is desired, the sii-loin 
from the hind quarter is usually preferred. It is not generally 
known, however, that the second cut of the rib-i'oast from the 
fore quarter is the finest roast from the beef. 

When the bone has been removed, and the meat skewered in 
the shape of a round, by the butcher, it is well to roast it on a 
spit before an open fire. If the latter cannot be obtained, how- 
ever, plunge the beef for a moment in boiling water, then rub 
well with salt and pepper, dredge with flour, and place on a 
little grate or trivet which will readily go in a baking-pan. ]n 
this pour about a pint of the water in which the beef was 
scalded. Place it in a very hot oven, with an inverted tin 
plate on top of the roast. Remove this plate often to baste 
the meat. When nearly done, which will be in about two 
hours for a roast of six pounds, baste .several times and bake a 
nice brown. Season the gravy with minced onion, parsley and 
tliyme, add a little salt and pejtper and a table.spoonful of the 
meat flavoiing of which a receipt was given in the general direc- 
tions about meat. Serve the gravy in a sauce-tureen, so that 
each person nuiy choose whether to eat the beef with gravy or 
with the juice that escapes from the meat while it is being 
carved. Tlie latter mixed with grated horseradish is preferred 
to gravy by some persons. 



BEEF AND VEAL. 137 

Every portion of the beef, from head to feet is useful and 
delicious when properly prepared. 

The rounds and rump pieces are generally used for beef d la- 
mode. 

Fresh beef from the ribs, boiled with turnips, is considered 
a nice dish by some persons. 

For steak, nothing is so nice as tenderloin or porter-house 
steak. I take this occasion to protest against the unwholesome 
custom of frying steak in lard. When inconvenient to broil, it 
may be deliciously cooked by being first beaten till tender, then 
laid in a hot frying-j^an, closely covered, and cooked without 
lard or butter, in its own juices. When scorched brown on 
both sides, biit not hard, remove the pan from the fire, pepper 
apd saU, the steak, and put a large tablespoonful of fresh butter 
on it. Press this in with a knife and foi'k, turning the steak, 
so that each side may absorb the butter. Serve on a hot dish. 
Tlie Avliole process will not consume five minutes. Some per- 
sons think it best to add the salt after the steak is done, though 
many good housekeepers salt and pepper the steak before 
before broiling it. Beefsteak should be cooked rare ; it is a 
great mistake to cook it till hard and indigestible. 

The i)arts most suitable for soup are the head, neck, shank, 
and all tlie unsightly ])arts. After the bones are broken and 
the meat boiled from them, the liquor is used for soup, while 
the meat, picked or exit to pieces, will make an excellent stew 
seasoned with potatoes, turnips, sweet herbs, one tablespoonful 
of butter and the same of meat flavoring. 

It is well always to keep brine on hand for corning beef. 
All the parts not desirable for roast or stciik aad better be 
corned. 

The beef, after being dressed, should be hung up by the hind 
legs, with a smooth, round piece of timber s\ifiiciently strong 
to hold the weight, passed through the legs at the hook, or run 
between the tendon and bone, with short pegs to keep the legs 
stretched apart. Then with a shai-p axe, standing behind the 

12 



l.'>8 BEEF TO ROAST BEEF. 

suspended beef, Ri)lit it down the backbone, severing it in half. 
Then pass a knife tlu-ough tlie ribs, leaving two or tiiree short 
ribs on the hind-quarter. Sever the backbone with an axe. 
Then cut witli a shaij) knife straight across the parallel line 
with the sjiinal bone, which piece must be divided into two 
pieces, the sirloin and steak. Then take off two rounds, or 
three, according to the size of the animal, cutting M'ith a siiarp 
knife, and cutting the bone with a meat gaw or axe, as near the 
joints as possible, which leaves the shin-bone. 

The fore quarter then is divided into four pieces, after taking 
off the shoulder, which ^lay be divided into three or more 
pieces. 

The loin of veal is the nicest part, and is always roasted. 

The fillets and knuckles may be stewed and roasted. 

The latter is nicest for soup. 

The breast may be stewed or roasted. 

Tiie cutlets are nicest from the legs or fillet. 

The head is a dish for sou}), stew or pie. 

Sweetbreads from the throat make a delicious dish, much 
piiz(!d by e])icureans. 

The feet, boiled till the bones drop out, make a delightful 
dish, fried in batter, while the water in which they are boiled 
makes excellent jelly- 
Veal, to be eaten in its perfection, should be killed when fron) 
four to six weeks old. 

Beef. 
The sirloin, or fore and middle ribs, are best for roasting. 
The steaks are best cut from the ribs, or the inner part of 
the sirloin ; shank, tail and head make nice soup. — Mrs. W. 

To Roast Beef. 
liav the meat on some sticks in a dripping pan or other ves- 
sel, so that it will not touch the water which it is necessary to 
have in rhc Vjottom. Season with salt and l>epi)er, and put in 



EIB ROAST OF BEEF TO ROAST BEEF. 139 

the oven thi-ee or four hours before it is wanted for the table. 
Baste it often with the water in the bottom of the pan, renew- 
ing it as often as it gets low. This makes sweet, juicy roast 
beef. The great secret of it is, not to have the meat touch tlie 
water in the bottom of the pan, and to baste it often. Tough, 
unpromising pieces of beef are best cooked by steaming them 
an hour and a half or so and tlieu putting them in the oven 
and roasting as much longer. 

Crackers, first browned and then pounded, shovild always be 
kept to sift over roast meats : and curled parsley to garnish 
with. Grated horseradish is also excellent with the roast. 
—3frs. S. T. 

Rib Roast of Beef. 
Get, from the butcher, a rib-roast — the second cut is best — 
and get him to take out the bones, and roll and skewer it : if 
this is not convenient, it can l^e done at home with a sharp 
knife. Before roasting, take out the wooden skewei's put in at 
market, unroll, season well with salt and pepper and anything 
else liked, and roll again tightly, fastening securely with the 
iron skewer pins. Put it in a pan ou a little ii-on griddle or 
trivet, made for the purpose to keep it just over the pint of 
water in the pan. Pepper and .salt freely, dredge with Hour 
and baste. Some persons like half a teacup of [)epper vinegar, 
poured over just before it is done; and minced onion, thyme 
and parsley added to the gravy, which should be brown. — 
3frs. B. 

To Roast Beef. 

The sirloin is the nicest for the purpose. 

Plunge the beef in boiling water and boil for thirty minutes : 
then put it in the .stove-pan; skim the top of the water in 
vvhicli it has been boiled, and baste the roast, after dredging it 
with flour ; pepper and salt to taste. Baste frequently, ancf 
roast till done. — 3frs. P. W. 



140 beef a la mode. 

Beef a la Mode. 
Take, from a round of fresh beef, the bone ; beat the me;it 
all over slightly to make tender. Grate a loaf of bread, mix 
with it equal quantities of — 

Thyme and parsley, rubbed fine. 

1 onion. 

The marrow from the bone. 

^ pound suet. 

Pep]>er and salt, cloves and nutmeg to the taste. 
Mix these ingredients with tliree eggs well beaten : fill the 
place from whence came the bone, and what is left rub all over 
the round : fasten well with a tape, tied round to keep in 
shape. Cover the pan with slices of bacon, lay the beef upon 
them, baste with butter : pour in the i)an a ])int of water. 
Cover closely and stew gently for six hours ; wlien thoroughly 
done, take out tlie beef, skim the fat from the gravy, strain into 
a saucepan, set it on the stove and stir into it one teacup Port 
wine. Let it come to a boil and send to the table in a sauce 
tureen. You may, for supper, dish cold : dress with vegetable 
flowers, whites of eggs boiled hard and chopped fine. — .Mrs. 

J. W. aS'. 

Jieef a la Mode. 
Take a round or a rump piece of beef, take out the bone, the 
gristle and all the tough pieces about the edges. Fill the cavi- 
ties from which the bone was taken, with suet, and fat salt 
pork. 

Press this so as to make it perfectly round, pass around a 
coarse, strong 2)iece of cloth, so as to hold it iinuly in shape. 
If the round is six inches thick, the cloth must be six inches 
wide, leaving the top and bottom open. With a larding needle, 
fill this thickly with strips of fat pork, running through from 
top to bottom and about one inch apart each way. Set this in 
a baking-pan, pour over : 

1 teacu}! boiling water, 

1 teacup boiling vinegar ; mixed. 



BOILED BEEF AND TURNIPS. 141 

Add to this one heaping tablespoonful brown sugar and a 
bunch of herbs. 

Sprinkle over the beef libei-ally with salt and black pepper ; 
chop one small onion fine, and lay over top of the beef. Sim- 
mer this for two or three hours, basting frequently and keeping 
an inverted tin plate over the beef except when basting. If the 
gravy stews down too much, add stock or broth of any kind. 
Turn it over, and let the top be at the bottom. When it is 
done and tender, skim the fat from the gravy. Pour over : 

2 tablespoonfuls celery vinegar. 

2 tablespoonfuls pepper. 

2 tablespoonfuls made mustard. 

1 wineglassful acid fruit jelly. 
Simmer and bake for two hours longer, frequently basting, 
that it may be soft and seasoned through and through. Take the 
beef from the pan and remove the cloth ; place in a large flat dish, 
pour over the gravy, and over this one teacup of muslaroom sauce. 
Sift finely powdered cracker over the top and garnish with 
grated or scraped horseradish and parsley. — Mrs. S. T 

Beef a la Mode. 
To 10 pounds of beef, 4 onions chopped up. 
1 tablespoonful allspice, 1 teaspoonful mace. 
Red pepper and salt to the taste. 
1 pint strong vinegar. 
Hub the beef in the mixture for three or four days, then cook, 
with all these ingredients. The H piece is generally the part 
taken for this purpose. — Mrs. M. B. 

Boiled Beef and Turnips. 

The brisket or breast of beef is nicest for boiling. Keep 
sufficiently covered in water, boiling three hours, or until 
tender. 

Peel and slice half a dozen turnips and put with beef, boil- 
ing until soft enough to mash with a spoon, which will require 



142 TO COLr.AK I5EEF IJKKFSTKAK IJUOILEI). 

al)Out tliirty minutes. Dress with one teacup of milk, peppRi 
and salt to the taste. 

Stew together a sliort time aud put in bottom of dish wiiii 
Vieef on the top. — Jlrs. P. ll\ 

To Collar Beef. 

Take a flank of fi-osli beef, stesv it with p<'j)i)er, salt, allsjiice, 
saltpetre, thyme, and sage. 

Then roll as hard as you can, and wind a string around it; 
them boil till done. It must be served up cold, cut in slices. — 
Mis. M. p. 

RoLLKi) Beefsteak. 

Beat a large tender steak thoroughly and carefully. 

Sprinkle over salt, pepper, sage, minced onion, minced pars- 
ley, and bits of butter. 

Have ready sohk; mealy Irish potatoes mashed fine, and 
seasoiieil with a litth; butter and salt. Spread ovm- all, and 
I'ull up tightly : fasten the ends and sides securely with skewer 
pins. Place in a pan with such l)rotli or gravy as may be on 
hand; if none, two teacups of Itoiling water, and one small 
minceil oiiioii, pepjier, salt, and one slice of pork. 

Sinuner and baste as you wouhl a roast thick. Sift over it 
)>ro\vned cracker, pounded line. Very nice. — JSLrs. iS. T. 

Beefsteak BitoiLED. 
Cut the steak one-half inch thick ; it should then be beaten 
with a steak beater or pestle. The griddle should be hot and on 
the coals : place the steak on the griddle, and as soon as s(;ared, 
turn it ; when both sides are seared, place it in a i)an, season 
it witli pepper, salt, and butt(!r: repeat this for every i)iece of 
steak, and place in the pan, whicli should be krpt closely cov- 
ered without being on the tir(!. If your heat is sufficient, from 
thre3 to five minutes is sufficient to cook. — JSErs. P. W. 



bkoilkd steak — beefsteak fkikd with oni'^ns. 143 

Broiled Steak. 
A porter-house stetik is cousiJorecl, by some persons, best, 
otlifvs ])refer the temlerJoiu. Beat either tender, and place on 
a griiliroii ov(ir coals, frequently turning. Have ready a hot 
dish, place the steak on it, pepper and salt well, then with a 
knife and fork ])rofusely buttei", with one large tablespoonful 
fresh butter, tuiiiing and pressing it so as to absorb the butter ; 
pepper again and set the dish over boiling water nntii wanted, 
when it will lie found tender and juicy, if not cookea too long 
on a gridiron. One tablespoonful ])epper vinegar gives this the 
taste of venison, and to this may be added one tablespoonful 
made mustard, for those who like highly seasoned food. — Mrs. 
>S. T. 

How TO Cook Beefsteak. 
Take a thin, long-handled frying-pan, put it on the stove and 
heat it quite hot. In this }>ut the pieces of steak ])reviously 
pounded, but do not put a particle of butter in the frying-[)au 
and do not salt the steak. Allow the steak to merely glaze over 
and then turn it quickly to the other side, turning it several 
times in this manner, until it is done. Four minutes is sufficient 
for cooking. When done, lay it on the platter, pievionsly 
warmed ; butter and salt, and set a moment in the hot oven. 
Allow the steak to heat but a moment on each side ; this helps 
it to retain all its sweet juices, and putting on the salt at the 
last monent, after it is on the platter, draws out its juices. — 
Mrs. S. T. 

Beefsteak Fried with Onions. 

Prepare the steak as for broiling, pepper and roll in flour and 
fry in lard ; remove the steak from the pan when done ; add to 
the gravy one chopped onion, pepper, salt, one-half teacup \>ater, 
and a little mustard. 

Cook a few minutes, put the steak in the gravy — lot it remaiu 
a short time ; send to the table hot. — 3Irs. P. JV. 



144 TO FRY STEAK FRIZZLED BKEF. 

To Fry Steak. 
Hunt up all the pickle and take from each une teacup vinegar, 
lay the steak in a deep dish, pour over the vinegar and let it 
stand one liour. Take a clean frying-pan, throw in one ounce 
butter, and some of the vinegar from the dish, sufficient to stew 
Uie steak. If managed properly, when done it will be imbedded 
in a thick gravy. Put the steak in a hot dish, before the fire ; 
into the pan, put one spoonful bkxck pepper, one or two of cat- 
sup, and one of I'aw mustard. — Mrs. IS. 

Fried Steak. 

Get from the butcher a tenderloin or porter-house steak. Do 
not wash it, but be careful to lay it on a clean block and beat it 
well, but not into holes, nor so as to look i-agged. Sprinkle 
over pepper and salt, then dredge with flour on both sides. 

Have ready a hot frying-pan, lay in the steak and cover 
closely. The juice of the meat will be sufficient to cook it. 
Turn often, as the pan must be hot enough to scorch and make 
the steak and gravy brown. 

Before it gets hard or overdone, butter liberally ; place in a 
hot dish. Pepper again, and, if preferred, pour over first one 
tablespoonful pepper vinegar, then one tablespoonful made mus- 
tard, and turn in over all the hot gravy. Sift powered cracker 
over and serve. — Mrs. S. T. 

Frizzled Beef. 

Shred some dried beef, parboil it until it is sufficiently freshen- 
ed, drain off the water and add enough boiling water to cover 
it. Rub equal quantities of butter and flour together until 
smooth, then add to the beef. Beat up three eggs, yolks and 
whites together, stir these in with a little pepper, a couple of 
minutes before taking from the fire. This is to be served hot on 
toast.— 3f9v>. F. 



fricasseed beef to stew a rump of beef. l40 

Fricasseed Beef. 
Take auy piece of beef fioin the fore quarter, sucli as is gen- 
erally used for coming, and cook it tender in just water enough 
to have it all evaporate in cooking. When about half done, put 
in salt enough to season well, and half teaspoonful pepper. If 
the water should not boil away soon enough, turn it ofi", and let 
tlie beef fry fifteen minutes — it is better than the best roast 
beef. Take two tablespoonfuls flour, adding the fat — when 
mixed, pour on the hot juice of the meat. Serve with ai)ple 
sauce. — Jlrs. D. 

Beef Stew. 
This is best when made of slices cut from an underdone roast, 
and simmered in any liquor in which meat has been boiled, but 
if none is at hand, use water instead — just covering the beef. 
To a half dozen slices of the usual size, add : 
2 tablespoonfuls pepper vinegar. 
1 tablespoonful of made mustard. 
1 tablespoonful of acid fruit jelly. 
1 tablespoonful of butter. 
1 teaspoonful salt. 
1 teaspoonful celery-seed. 
1 saltspoonful black pepper. 
1 raw turnip, grated or scraped fine. 
1 mashed Irish potato. 
Add minced onion and parsley. 
Boil up and serve. 
Cold beefsteak or mutton chops, which are always unfit to 
a])pfur upon the table a second time, are delicious cut up in 
small pieces and mixed or stewed separately in this way. — Jifrs. 
S. T. 

To Stew a Rump of Beef. 
Stuff the beef with shallots, thyme, par-sley, chopped fine, 
slips of bacon, pepper, salt and allspice. Then lay it in a pot 
with water sufficient to keep it from burning before it is done. 

13 



146 LEBANON STEW — TONGUE A LA TEREAPIN. 

Thicken tlie giavy with burnt flour and butter, and when it is 
served up, pour a little wine over it and strew the top with all- 
spice. — Mrs. M. P. 

Lebanon Stew. 
Take scraps of raw beef, such as are not fit for boiling, cut 
very fine, picking out all the strings, and put into a kettle, and 
more than cover with cold water. Let it boil several hours, or 
until the water is nearly all gone. Season with butter, i)epper 
and salt. It is rich and needs but little seasoning. Serve hot, 
as you would hash. — 3Irs. S. T. 

Beef Collaps. 
1|- pounds lean beef, chopped fine. 
1 tablespoouful lard. 
1 tablespoouful of butter. 
With enough water to cook it. 
After being well cooked, thicken gravy, and season with vine- 
gar and pe{)per. — Mrs. II. D. 

To Stew Beep Tongue. 
Put a fresh tongue in water sufiicient to cover it, and let it 
simmer six or seven hours. Skim the gravy well. Half an 
hour before dishing it, add one-half wineglassful wine, one-half 
wineglassful walnut catsup, a little mace, and a few cloves to 
the gravy, and stew awhile together. ^ — Mrs. S. T. 

Tongue a la Terrapin. 

Take a freshly salted tongue and boil tender ; take out, and 
split it, stick a few cloves in, cut up a small onion, put in some 
sticks of mace, and a little brown fiour. 

Have water enough in a stewpan to cover the tongue; mix 
in the ingredients, befoi'e putting in the tongue. Thi'ee liard- 
boiled eggs chopped up fine and put in the stew. Add a glass 



TONGUE TOAST TO STEW BEEF KIDNEYS. 147 

of wine just before taking up. Send to the table hot, garnished 
with liard boiled eggs cut in rings. — ]\Irs. L. G. 

Tongue Toast. 
Take cold tongue that has been well boiled, mince fine, mix 
it well with cream or a little milk, if there is no cream. Add 
the beaten yolk of one egg and give it a simmer over the fire. 
Toast nicely some thin slices of stale bread and, having buttered, 
lay them in a flat dish, that has been heated, then cover the 
toast with the tongue and serve up directly. — 3Irs. S. 

To Roast an Ox Heart. 

Wash it well and clean all the blood carefully from the pipes ; 
parboil it ten or fifteen minutes in boiling water ; drain and 
put in a stuffing which has been made of bread crumbs, minced 
suet or butter, thyme or parsley, salt, pepper, and nutmeg. 

Put it down to roast while hot, baste it well with butter, and 
just before serving, stir one tablespoonful currant jelly into the 
gravy. To roast, allow twenty minutes to every pound. — Mrs. 
A. M. I). 

Beef Heart. 

Parboil the heart until nearly tender, then gash and stuff 
with rich stuffing of loaf bread, seasoned with ouion, salt, 
pepj)er, and sage. Then put in a pan and bake, turning it 
several times. Baste with gravy whilst baking. — 3Irs. JT. II. 

Stewed Kidneys. 
Soak the kidneys for several hours, put them on to boil until 
tender. Roll them in flour, add a lumj) of butter the size of an 
egg, two spoanfuls catsup — any kind will answer, though walnut 
is the best ; pepper and salt to the taste. Stew them until well 
seasoned. — Mrs. P. W. 

To Stew Beef Kidneys. 
Cut into pieces and stew in water, with a nice addition of 



148 KIDNEYS FRIED — BROILED KIDNEYS. 

Kavory herbs, pepper and salt, and a handful flour to tliicken 
tlie gravy ; flavor and color the latter with burnt sugar. — 
Mrs. H. 

Kidneys Fried. 
After plunging in boiling water, cut them in thin slices and 
fry in hot butter ; add pepper, salt, and toss them for a few 
minutes in rich brown gravy. — 3frs. M. 

Beef Kidney, to Fry. 
Trim and cut the kidney in slices ; season them ^vith salt and 
pepper, and dredge well with flour ; fry on both sides, and 
when done, lift theai out, euij)ty the pan and make a gravy for 
them with a small piece of butter, one dessertspoonful floui-, 
pepper, salt, and a cup of boiling water. Shake these around 
and give tliem a minute's simmeiung ; add a little tomato or 
mushroom catsup, lemon juice, vinegar, or any good sauce 
to give it a flavor. Minced herbs are to many tastes an 
improvement to this dish, to which a small qviantity of onion 
may be added when it is liked. — 3rrs. A. 31. D. 

Kidneys Grilled. 
Prepai'e them as for stewing, cut each kidney in half and dijj 
them in egg beaten up with salt and pepper ; bread-crumb 
them, dip them in melted butter, bread-crumb them again, then 
grill before a slow fire ; serve with "Worcestershire or some 
other sauce. — 3Irs. K. 

Broiled Kidneys. 

Plunge some kidneys in boiling water ; open them down the 
centre, but do not separate them ; peel and pass a skewer 
across them to keei) them open ; peppex', salt, and dip them in 
melted butter. 

Bi'oil them over a clear fire on both sides, doing the cut side 
first ; remove the skewer, have ready some maitre d'hote saucft, 
viz.: butter beaten up with chopped parsley, salt and pepper, 



beef's liver — FRIED LIVEK. 149 

aud a little lemon juice. Put a small piece in the hollow of 
each kidney and serve hot. — 3Irs. P. 

Beef's Liver. 
Skin the liver, cut in slices and lay in salt water, as soon as 
it comes from market. Fry in lard with pepper, very brown. 
Season to taste. — Mrs. C. 

To Fry Liver. 
The slices must be cut thin, as they require some time to fry ; 
brown both sides ; when taken up, add butter and salt to taste. 
Fry in hot lard.— Jfrs. P. W. 

Beef Liver with Onions. 
Slice the liver rather thin, and throw into salt and water. 
Meantime slice the onions and put into a deep frying-pan, just 
covered with water, and boil until done, keeping it closely cov- 
ered. When the water has all boiled away, put in a heaping 
spoonful of sweet lard, and fry until the onions are a light 
brown. Take them up in a deep plate; set them on the back 
of the stove or range to keep hot, and fry the liver in the same 
pan, adding more lard if there is not enough. Season all with 
salt and pepper, cutting the liver in slices suitable to help one 
person. Make a little mound of fried onions on each piece, 
grate pounded cracker on the top, and serve. — 3£rs. S. T. 

Dried Liver for Relish. 
Salt the liver well for four days ; hang to smoke and dry. 
Cut in very thin slices, and broil in pepper and butter. — 
Mrs. W. 

Fried Liver. 

Cut the slices thin, scald them for some minutes, put them in 

a pan with hot lard, and fry slowly till browned on both sides ; 

add a little salt and pepper. Take up the liver, and pour into 

the pan half a teacup of water ; let it boil a few minutes ; put 



150 TO STKW BRAINS TO FRY BRAINS. 

the ]i\ er back, stir it up, and cover it uj) for a short time to 
keep it from being hard. 

Kidneys can be cooked the same way, excepting you must 
add some butter, as they are very dry, — 3Irs. P. TF. 

To Stew Brains. 
Have them thoroughly soaked in salt water to get the blood 
out. Put them in a stewpan with water enough to cover tliem ; 
boil half an hour, pour off the water, and add one teacup of 
cream or milk, salt, pepper, and butter the size of an egg. 
Boil well together for ten minutes, when put into the dish. 
Add one tablespoonful vinegar. — Mrs. P. W. 

To Dress Brains. 
Lay in salt and water, then either sci-amble like eggs, or boat 
the yolks of eggs with a little flour ; dip the brains in and fry 
them.— Jfrs. W. 

To Fry Bp:ef Brains. 
Pour over the brains salt water, let them remain for an hour, 
changing the water to draw the blood out, then pour over them 
some boiling water and remove tlie skin. Beat up two eggs, 
and make a batter with a little flour, bread crumbs and crackers. 
Season with pepper and salt. Fry in hot lard. — 3Irs. P. W. 

To Fry Brains. 
Soak the brains for several hours in weak salt water to get 
out the blood ; drain and put them in a saiicepan and pour very 
little boiling water on ; simmer a few minutes. Handle them 
lightly, and arrange so as to form round cakes, without break- 
ing. Pepper them and use very little salt; brains require very 
little salt. Have ready a beaten egg, and cover the top of the 
cakes with it, using a spoon to put it on. Sift over grated 
cracker and fry in hot lard ; serve the other side the same way. 
Keep closely covered while frying. — Mrs. S. T. 



brain croquettes beef tripe. 151 

Braix Ckoquettes. 
Wash the brains of three heads very thoroughly, until they 
are free from membraneous matter and perfectly white. Then 
scramble with three eggs. When cold, roll into egg-shaped 
balls, with floured hands; dip in beaten egg, then in cracker O' 
stale bread crumbs, and fry in lard. — ]\Trs. 11. L. 

To Pkepare Tripe. 
Empty the contents of the stomach of a fat beef; pvit it in 
boiling water, one piece at a time, to prevent getting too hot. 
Scrape with a sharp knife, then put it in a vessel of cold water 
with salt; wash thoroughly, and change the salt water every day 
for four or five consecutive days ; when perfectly white, boil in 
a very cleaia vessel of salt water. Then put it in vinegar until 
you Avish to use it. Cut it in pieces of three or four inches; 
square, and fry in egg batter. — Mrs. tT. II. 

Tripe. 
The moment the tripe is taken out, wash it thoroughly in 
many cold waters. {If you have quick-lime, sift it over the 
dark inner coat, and instantly scrape oft' the coat.) Cut it in 
four parts. Have ready boiling water, dip and scrape Aintil it 
becomes quite white. Prepare weak brine with a considerable 
mixture of meal ; let it soak a day. Continue to shift it every 
day, and every other day scrape it ; this must be done for a 
week, and then make nice gruel, in which it must be well 
boiled, first tying it up in a cloth. When boiled, take it out 
of the cloth, and lay it in a weak brine for a night, after which 
it may be j)ut with the feet. — Mrs. li. 

Beef Tripe. 

Clean the tripe carefully. Soak several days in salt water, 
tlieu in clear water, changing several times. Cut in slices, boil 
])erfectly done, dip in a batter of egg (beaten light), milk and 



152 TO FRY imPE — BEEF SAUSAGE. 

flour, or sift meal over it. Fry or broil. Season with peppei 
and salt. 

To Fry Tripe. 
Cnt the tripe after it has been boiled, into strips about four 
inches wide and six long. Make a batter with two eggs, one 
teacup of flour and a little milk. Pepper the tripe and roll it 
in the batter. Fry in a pan of hot lard; as soon as one side 
is done, turn it over on the other side. — Ji/rs. P. TFi 

Gravy for Roast Beef. 

When the joint is done to a turn, dish it and place before 
the fire ; then carefully remove the fat from the dripping-pan, 
and pour the gravy into the dish, not over the meat, as is the 
custom of inexperienced cooks, who, moreover, ruthlessly drown 
it with a cu2)ful of boiling water or highly flavored made-gi'avy. 
This is an error, for there is always a sufiicient quantity of 
natural gravy in good meat to render the use of foreign sauces 
superfluous. — Mrs. P. 

Brown Gravy. 
Take the gravy that drips from the meat ; add a Uttle water, 
one spoonful butter, a little flour, a little pe2)per and a Kttle 
salt. Stew all together. — Miss E. P. 

Bologna Sausage, 
Take ten pounds of beef, and four pounds pork, two-tliirda 
lean and one-third fat ; chop very fine and mix well together. 
Season with six ounces fine salt, one ounce black pepper, one- 
half ounce cayenne pepper, and sage to the taste, — Mrs. 
Dr. S. 

Beef Sausage. 

Take tough l)eef and run it through a sausage machine. Form 
the pulp into shapes an inch thick, and the size of a commoD 
beefsteak. Season to the taste. — Jfrs. C 



cow HEEL — A FKENCII DISH. 153 

Cow Heel. 
As soon as the beef is killed, throw the feet in cold water, 
and let them remain during the night. In the morning, put 
them into a pot of cold water and let them boil until you find 
you can easily take off the hair and the hoof with a knife ; take 
care as the water boils away to replenish with boiling water. 
Have ready strong brine, not boiled nor strong enough, to bear 
iin egg, and the moment the feet are stripped, throw them in. 
Let them stand one night and in the morning pour the brine 
from them and put to them a fresh brine, with a small quantity 
of vinegai'. In a day or two, they are fit for use. — Mrs. It. 

Cow Heel Fried. 

Buy the feet prepared at the butchers ; boil well done. Sea- 
son with salt and pepper. 

Have ready an egg batter ; fry brown, and serve hot. A nice 
breakfast dish. — Mrs. R. L. 0. 

To Fry Beef Heel. 
Have a batter made of eggs, flour, etc., as for tripe. Split the 
feet into convenient shapes and fry in hot lard. Pour some; 
vinegar over them while fiying. — 3Irs. P. IV. 

Daube Froide. 

Take a beef shin, chop in several places to break the bone, 
keep it cooking in just water enough to prevent burning, till 
it falls to pieces. 

Then after taking out the bones, season with one heaping 
teaspoonful flour rubbed into one tablespoonful butter, red and 
black pepper, salt and celery seed. 

Stew it long enough to cook the flour. Pour into a deep dLsh, 
cover with a plate, and put weights on it to press it. Eat cold, 
as souse. — Mrs. C M. A. 

A Frekch Dish. 
To two beef feet, put four gallons water ; set on the tire at 



154: BRINE FOR BKKF TO CORN BEEF. 

fight o'clock in the morning. When the bones have dropped 
off add the half of one large onion, two red peppers, and one 
sprig parsley, all chopped tine. 

Take another pot, put in two gallons water, in which cut 
up one-half gallon nice pieces of beef, half an onion, one red 
pepper, parsley, all chopped fine, and salt. When all has 
boiled to pieces, put all together and let it boil half an hoiii-. 
Press as souse cheese. — 3Irs. T. 

Brine for Beef. 
9 quarts salt. 
IS gallons v/ater. 
2 pounds brown sugar. 
\ pound saltpetre. 
Boil and skiin well. Let the beef get thoroughly cold, and let 
as unich as possible of the blood be drained out before putting 
it in the brine. It may somedmes be necessary, in the course 
of a few months, that the brine be boiled and skiinnied a second 
time. 

This quantity will suffice for about half of an ordinary sized 
beef. — Mrs. A. C. 

To CoRX Beef. 
For every hundred pounds of beef, take : 
6 pounds salt. 
2 pounds brown sugar. 

2 ounces saltpetre. 

3 or 4 ounces soda. 
1 ounce red pepper. 

The whole to be dissolved in four gallons of water. The beel 
must be closely packed in a barrel, and the mixture poured over 
so as to cover it. Let it stand a week or ten days, or longer if 
the weather is cold ; then pom- ofl" the brine, boil it, and skim 
off the blood. Let it cool, and j^our back on the beef. War- 
ranted to keep. — Mrs. Dr. jS. 



TO CORN BEEF TONGLES AND BEKF. 155 

To Corn Beef Tongues and Beef. 
One tablespoonfiil saltpetre to eacli tongue or piece of beef; 
rub this in first, then a plenty of salt. Pack down in salt ; 
after it has remained ten or twelve days, put this, with a few 
pods of red pepper cut up fine, in a brine of only salt and water, 
which has been boiled, strained, and cooled, and strong enough 
to bear an egg. Wash a rock clean and j)lace on the beef or 
tongues, to keep tliein under the brine. This will keep an 
indefinite lengtli of time. Fit for use in two weeks. — 3frs. 
S. T. 

To Corn Beef or Pork. 

50 pounds meat. 

4-2- pounds salt. 

l-g- pounds brown sugar. 

^ pound saltpetre. 

1 quart molasses. 
Mix well, boil and skim. When milk-warm, pour it over the 
moat with a ladle. The beef must be soaked in clear water and 
wiped dry, before putting in the brine. It will be ready for use 
in a few weeks. Sliould the brine mould, skim and boil again. 
Keep the meat under the bi-ine. — Mrs. P. W. 

To Pickle Tongue. 
Rub it well with salt and leave it alone four or five hours ; 
jjour oft' the foul brine ; take two ounces saltpetre beaten fine, 
and rub it all over the tongue ; then mix one-quarter of a pound 
brown sugar and one ounce sal-prunella (the bay salt and sal 
prunella beat very fine), and rub it well over the tongue. Let 
it lie in the pickle three or four days ; make a brine of one gal- 
lon water with common salt strong enough to bear an egg, a 
lialf-pound broAvn sugar, two ounces saltpetre, and one-quarter 
of a pound bay salt. Boil one quarter of an hour, skimming 
well ; when cold pixt in the tongue ; let it lie in the pickle four- 
teen days, turning it every day. Wlien ready to use take it 



156 TO CORN BEEF IIUNTER's BEEF, OE SPICED KOUND. 

out of the pickle, or hang it in wood smoke to dry. — 3frs 
A. 31. D. 

To Corn Beef. 
One tablespoonful saltpetre to each piece of beef, well rubbed 
in. Then rub in as much salt as it will take. Let it stand ten 
or twelve days, and then put it in strong brine. AVill be ready 
for use in a week. — Mrs. Col. A. F 

Corned Bekf. 
Having a quarter of beef cut into proper size and shape 
for nice roasting pieces, put it in a barrel of weak brine and let 
it remain four days. Then make a brine that will bear an egg, 
to wliich add : 

^ pound saltpetre. 
3 pounds brown sugar. 
Transfer the beef to this barrel, cover closely, and let it 
i-emain a week. Put a weiirht on the meat to insure its being 
kept under the brine. Beef thus jjrepared in January will keep 
well through the month of March, improving Avith the lapse of 
time. It is best served cold. A valuable receipt for country 
housekeepers. — Mrs. IVm. A. S. 

Hunter's Beef, or Spiced Round. 
To a round of beef weighing twenty-four pounds, take . 
3 ounces saltpetre. 
3 ounces coarsest sugar. 
1 ounce cloves. 
1 nutmeg. 
■^ ounce allspice. 
3 handfuls salt. 
Beat all into the finest i)owder; allow the beef to hang three 
or four days ; remove the bone, then rub the spices well into it, 
continuing tf do so every two or three days, for two or three 
w'^eks. 

When to be dressed, dip it in cold water, to take off tlio 



HUNTEK's round, ok spiced beef SPICED BEEF 157 

loose spices, bind it up tightly and put into a pan with a tea- 
cupful water at the bottom. Sprinkle the top of tlie meat with 
suet, cover it over with a thick batter, and brown papei- over it. 
Bake five hours.— Mrs. T. C. 

Hunter's Round, or Spiced Beef. 
To a round of beef that weighs twenty-five ] ounds, take tho 
following : 

3 ounces saltpetre. 

1 ounce cloves. 

1 ounce nutmeg. 

1 ounce allspice. 

1 pint salt. 
Let the round of beef hang in a cool, dry place twenty-foui 
hours. Take out the bone, and fill the space with suet and 
spices mixed. Rub the above ingredients all over the round y 
put in a wooden box or tub, turn it over occasionally and rub a 
small quantity of salt on it. Let it remain three weeks. Then 
make a stiff paste of flour and water, cover the round with it 
and set in the oven. Bake three hours slowly. Remove the 
paste when cold, and trim neatly the -rough outside, and slice 
horizontally. Served only when cold. — Mrs. W. A. S. 

To Spice a Round of Beep. 
Take three tables])oonfuls saltpetre, four tablespoonfuls brown 
sugar, with which rub your beef well. Two teacups of salt, 
one teacup of cloves, one teacup of allspice (the spice must be 
groiuid fine). Rub the beef with these ingredients. Put it 
into a tub as near the size of the beef as possible ; turn it every 
day in the pickle it makes. In about four weeks it will be 
ready for use. For thirty pounds use two pounds beef suet. 
When cooked place sticks across the bottom of the pot to pro 
vent iis burning. — Mrs. li. L. P. 

Spiced Beef. 
Take eight or ten pounds of the thin flank, remove any gris 



158 TO COOK CORNED BEKF-TONGUE, ETC. 

I.le, skill or boue-s ; rub it over with liaif ouuco saltpetre, lia,ll 
ounce bay salt, then rub it well in with a mixture of spices, the 
the following proportions being used : 

1 ounce black pepper. 

1 ounce allspice. 

^ ounce ground ginger, 

^ ounce cloves. 

^ ounce mace. 
Use only as much as will suffice to rub the beef all over ; then 
add three ounces common salt, and quarter of a pound coarse 
sugar. 

Let the beef remain a fortnight in this pickle, turning it and 
rubbing it every day : then take it out, cover it with the spices 
and chopped sweet herbs, roll it very tight, tie it with tape, put 
it into a pan with half-pint water, and half-pound suet. 

Bake it after the bread has been drawn, for six hours ; put a 
heavy weight upon it, and when cold take off the ta[)e. 

To Cook a Corned Round of Beef. 
Wash it clean of the brine, sew it in a coarse towel and boil 
six to eight hours. Do not remove the towel until next day; 
it is nicer to put it in a i"Ound mould and gives it a good shape. 
When perfectly cold, trim nicely and cut it across the grain. — 
Mrs. P. W. 

To Cook Corned Beef-Tongue, etc. 
If the beef has been in brine long or has been dried, it must 
be soaked in cold water twelve hours before boiling. If freshly 
cured it is unnecessary. The beef should be put on in a large 
pot of water early in the morning and simmer for hours. Set 
the pot at the back of the range or stove, where it will gently 
boil during the preparation of dinner. When it first com 
mences to boil, take off the scum. After it is thoroughly done, 
take off the boiler or pot. Set away with the beef under tho 
liquor to icmain until next day, when it will be found juicy and 



TO COOK UOKNED BEEF TO CURE FOK DRYIXO. 159 

touder. With a sharp kuifb curefully trim, and garnish with 
scraped horseradisli and curled parsley. — 3Irs. S. T. 

How TO Cook Corned Beef. 
The flank is a nice piece to corn ; though an ugly piece of 
meat, it can be made a nice and delicious dish. Wash the 
flank clean, roll it up as tight as you can. and tie it with strong 
cord in three places ; then sew it up in a coarse towel and put 
it on and boil from five to six hours, according to size ; take it 
out of the pot, but do not undo it, ]>ut it on a dish or pan and 
put a weight on it ; let it stand until next day, then remove 
the cloth and strings ; trim it, and you have a nice dish. — Mrs. 

P. w. 

^ ' Smoked Beef. 

To a {)iece of beef weighing about twelve or fourteen pounds, 
you rub in the following : 
1 pint salt. 
1 cup brown sugar. 
1 cup molasses. 

^ teaspoonful pounded saltpetre. 
Hub this well on the beef and turn it several times. At the 
end often days drain it, rub Ijran on it, hang it up and smoke 
for several days. — 3Irs. II. T. 

To Cuke Beef fou Drvixg. 
This recipe keeps the meat moist, so that it has none of that 
toughness dried beef mostly has when a little old. To every 
twenty-eight or thirty pounds, allow one tables])Oonful saltpetre, 
one quart fine salt, mixed witli molasses until the color is about 
that of light brown sugar; rub the pieces of meat with ti.e mix- 
ture, and when done, let all stick to it that will. Pack in a keg 
or half-barrel, that the pickle may cover the meat, and let it 
remain forty-eight hours ; at the end of that time, enough [lickle 
will bo formed to co\ cr it. Take it out and haiiu; in a suitable 



160 TO CURE BEEF HAM — STEWED LOIN OF VEAL. 

place for drying. Allow all the mixture to adluire to the meat 
that will— 3/rs. A. M. J). 

To Cure Beef Ham. 
Divide th^^ ham into three parts; rub on half-pint molasses ; 
let it remain in this molasses a day and two nights, turning it 
over occasionally during the time. Rub on then one handful 
salt and put it back in the vessel with the molasses ; turn it 
over, morning and night for ten days. Hang it up to dry for 
one week, then smoke a little. It is an excellent plan, after suf- 
ficiently smoked, to put each piece of beef in a bag, to protect 
fi'oni insects, and keep hanging till used. — Miss K. W. 

To Dry Beef and Tongue. 
The best pieces are the brisket, the round and rib pieces that 
are used for roasting. Put about the middle of Februai-y in 
brine. Rub first with salt, and let them lie for a fortnight, then 
throw them in brine and let them lay there three weeks, take 
them out and wipe dry: rub them over with bran and hang in 
a cool place and dark, not letting them touch anything. Should 
there come a wet season, put them in the sun to dry a little. — 
Mrs. R. 

Stewed Loin of Veal. 

Take part of a loin of veal, the chump (;nd will do. Put it 
into a large, thick, well-tinned iron saucepan, or into a stew-pan, 
add about two ounces of butter, and shake it over a moderate fire 
until it begins to brown ; flour the veal well over, lay it in a 
saucepan, and when it is of a fine, equal light brown, pour grad- 
ually in veal broth, gravy or boiling water, to nearly half its 
depth ; add a little salt, one or two sliced carrots, a small onion, 
or more when the flavor is liked, and one bunch parsley. 

Stew the veal very softly for an hour or rather more, then 
turn it and let it stew for nearly or quite another hour or 
longer, should it not appear perfectly done. A longer time 



VEAL CHOPS — ROAST VEAL — VEAL STEAK. 161 

must be allowed when the meat is more thau middliug size. 
Dish the joiut; skim all the fat from the gravy and strain it 
over the meat, or keep the joint hot while it is rajddly reduced 
to a richer consistency. — Mrs. JT. 

Yeal Chops. 
First beat until tender, then lay the chops in a pan, pour in 
just enough boiling water to barely cover them. Cover closely 
and simmer till tender, sprinkling over after they are nearly 
done, with a little pepper and salt. Lift from the pan, dry with 
a clean towel, butter them, then cover with beaten egg, and sift 
on cracker crumbs. Lay on a baking dish or pan and set in the 
stove to brown. Garnish and serve. — Mrs. 8. T. 

Roast Veal. 
Plunge into boiling water, dry with a clean cloth ; rub well 
with pepper and salt, then with butter. Di-edge with flour, 
and put into a pan with two teacups of boiling water, a slice of 
bacon or pork, minced onion and parsley, pepper and salt. Set 
in a hot oven ; simmer, baste and brown. Veal is longer cook- 
ing than lamb. When a light brown, with a pin, stick on 
a buttered paper to prevent dryness. Tlfickeu the gravy with 
brown flour, if brown gravy is wanted, but always with mashed 
Irish potato if white gi'avy is desired. — Mrs. S. T. 

Veal Steak. 
First beat until it is tender, then without v/ashing lay on a 
gridiron over coals ; turn over it a tin plate to prevent hardness 
and dryness. Turn the steak, and when well done, with a knife 
and fork press it and turn it in a pan or plate of hot melted 
butter. After putting in plate of hot butter and letting it 
a])sorb as much of the butter as possible, lay it on a dish, pep- 
per and salt it plentifully, and pour over the melted butter. 
(Set in the oven a few minutes, but not long enough for the 
butter to fry, wliich is ruinous to the flavor of steaks, game, 

14 



102 VEAL CUTLETS. 

etc.) Wilt 11 done, sift over grated ci'acker, Garnisli wha pars 
ley and serve hot. — 3frs. /S. 2\ 

Veal Cutlet. 

Cut t]ie veal as if for steak or fi-ying, put lard or butter in 
tne pan, and let it be hot. Beat up an egg on a plate and have 
flour on another ; dip the pieces first in the egg, then in the 
floui, on both sides, and lay in the pan and fry until done, '.urn- 
ing it carefully once. This makes an excellent dish if well pre- 
pared. This way is superior to batter. — 3Irs. D. 

Veal Cutlet. 

Cut it in pieces the size of your hand, and lay in salt water 
some little time. Take out and wipe dry. Put a small piece 
of lard in the pan and sprinkle the cutlet with a very little 
flour, pepper, and salt. Fry until nearly done. When it 
begins to brown, jjour off the lard, and pour in a little water, 
one large spoonful butter, and a little celery-seed. Turn it over 
frequently. — 3frs. JV. 

Veal Cutlets. 

Trim smoothly and beat till tender, sprinkle over pepper 
and salt ; then with a spoon spread over an egg beaten till 
thick, and cover thickly with ])ounded cracker. 

Have some hot lard ready in the frying-pan, put the cutlets on 
to fry, with the prepared side down ; when of a light yellow 
brown, dress the other side the same way and fry, keeping 
closely covered. When they are perf^^ctly done (veal should 
never be rare), place in a hot dish; pour one teacup o 
milk, one small piece of butter, jiejiper, salt, and minced onion 
and parsley into the pan, stirring constantly. When it boils 
up, pour into the dish and garnish with parsl(\v. Always sift 
browned cracker over such dishes. — JMra. iS. /'. 



cold veal ukessed with white sauce. 163 

Cold Veal Dressed with White Sauce. 

Boil one pint milk and thicken it a little with one teaspoon 
ful flour, wet with cold water. When well boiled, put ir. 
very thin slices of veal, and simmer slowly for fifteen minutes. 

Have the yolk of an egg well beaten up, and add to the meat, 
also a piece of butter. 

Let it boil up once, stirring all the time, and serve it on 
toasted slices of bread. A few slices of bacon, cut thin and 
fried to a crisp, make a good relish with this dish. — 3Irs. G. P. 

Minced Veal. 

Cut some slices of cold veal into small bits or dice ; take the 
cold gravy and add to it a half-pint of boiling water, one tea- 
spoonful tomato or walnut catsup, the grated peel of one lemon, 
pepper and salt. 

Simmer it with the meat slowly for half an hour ; then add 
half a teaspoonful flour made into a thin batter and pour it 
into the gravy, stirring it rapidly. Boil for ten minutes ; turn 
in one-half cupful cream, or same quantity of milk with a small 
piece of butter ; let it boil up. Serve on ahot platter garnislud 
with sippets of fried bread. — Mrs. P. 

Veal Loaf. 

2 pounds chopped veal. 
^ pound chopped pork. 

3 tablespooufuls powdered ci'acker. 

1 tablespoonful sage. 

2 tablespooufuls butter. 

1 teaspoonful black pepper. 
1 teaspoonful mace. 
Salt to taste. 

1 egg well beaten and mixed in the ingredients. 
Make up into a loaf or pone, and bake slowly three and a 
half hours. This is an excellent dish to use with lettuce, etc^ 



164 VEAL LOAF VEAL CAKE. 

iu the spring or early autmnn, when game is out of season. 
It is best to be made the day before using. — Mrs. H. M. 

Veal Loaf. 

Two and a half pounds meat taken from fillet or shoulder, or 
wherever the meat is free from fat. Take out all the little 
white, fibrous or sinewy particles, and chop very finely, almost to 
a paste. Mix in rolled cracker crumbs with one egg to hold it 
together, a little butter, red and black pepper, and salt to taste. 

Form into a small loaf; dredge with the cracker crumbs, and 
put several little pieces of butter over the outside. Set this loaf 
uncooked, with about one quart water or some broth, in a pan ; 
put it in the oven and baste constantly for two hours, and when 
taken out to cool, pour any remaining liquid over the loaf. It 
ought to cut in slices and be quite compact — no caverns in the 
inside of the loaf. — Mrs. G. P. 

Veal Cake. 

Take one and a half pounds veal, and half a pound of bacon, 
stew together with very little water, a little salt and pepper, 
thyme and parsley. 

When the veal is tender, cut into small square pieces, as also 
the bacon. 

Boil four eggs hard and slice them up, and chop some raw 
parsley fine. 

Take a mould or small bowl, lay the slices of egg in a kind 
of pattern prettily at the bottom of it. Sprinkle the parsley 
between the slices. Add veal, bacon, and more egg alternately, 
pepper and salt to taste, and a little grated lemon-peel, also some 
more parsley, and so on until the bowl is nearly full. Fill up 
with the gravy the veal was boiled in, which ought to be very 
rich. Let it stand until quite cold, then turn out on a flat dish. 
The slices cut firmer and more solid when the cake is made the 
day beforehand, which it is best to do if the wcathei- ;)eriiiit8 
—Mr$. R. P. 



SWEETniiEADS OALF's LIVER BROILICD. 1>35 

Sweetbreads. 

Three good throat sweetbreads will make a dish. Blanch 
fchetn well and lay in cold water, then take out and dry well. 
Add egg, bread crumbs, and herbs. 

Put on a dish and brown in an oven. Eat with mushroom 
or tomato sauce. — 31rs. M. 

Sweetbreads. 
Soak, and put in boiling water for ten minutes. 
Stew in cold water to blanch them. 

They may be cut in slices or in dice and put in fricassee or 
meats, or ragouts, or used as a separate disli. — ]\frs. W. 

Sweetbreads. 

Lay them in salt and water, after washing ; parboil until 
done ; drain, dry, and split in half. Hub with butter, pepper 
and salt. DijJ in one egg beaten stiff. Sift over pounded 
cracker. 

Butter a baking-dish, lay them in, and set in a hot oven to 
brown, or fry until a light brown. — 3Irs. S. T. 

Calves' Feet dressed as Terrapins. 

Boil eight feet until the meat leaves the bones, then remove 
them. Put them in a pan with one-half pint of the rich gravy 
in which they are boiled, and add two large spoonfuls butter. 

Rub the yolks of three hard-boiled eggs with a small tea- 
spoonful mustard, a very little cayenne, and salt to the taste. 

When well mixed with the egg, stir all together into the feet 
or gravy. Let it simmer ten minutes, and just befoi-e dishing 
add two wineglasses of good cooking wine and simmer again 
before serving. — Mrs. M. E. L. W. 

Calf's Liver Broiled. 
Cut the liver in thin slices, wash it and let it stand in salt 
and water half an hour to draw out the blood. Parboil in 



1()Q TO FKY CAI^f's LIVER SIMPLK WAY OF COOKING LIVKR. 

fresh salt and water, and broil, basting frequently in butter. 
Lay on a hot dish with a lump of butter. — 3frs. A. 31. D. 

To FuY Calf's Liver. 

Cut in thin slices. Season with pepper and salt, sweet herbs, 
and parsley. 

Dredge with flour and fry brown with lard. Have it 
thoroughly done, but it must not be hard ; keep covered while 
frying. — Mrs. H. 

Calf's Liver Fried. 

A calf's liver, as white as can be procured, flour, one bunch 
savory herbs, including parsley, juice of a lemon; pepper and 
salt to taste, a little water. 

Cut the liver into slices of a good and equal shape. Dip 
them in flour and fry brown. Place on a hot dish and keep 
before the fire while you prepare the gravy. Mince the herbs 
fine and put into the frying-pan with a little more butter ; add 
the other ingredients with one teasj)oonful flour. Simmer 
gently until the herbs are done, and pour over the liver. — 3Irs. 
A. 31. D. 

Bewitched Liver. 

3 pounds calFs liver, chopjied fine, 
\ jioiind salt pork. 

1 cup grated bread crumbs. 

2 eggs well beaten. 
2 teaspoonfuls salt. 

2 teaspoonfuls black pepper. 

\ teaspoonful red pepper. 
jMix all well together, and put into a tin mould ; set it in a 
pot of cold water and let it boil two hours. Then set the mould 
Lu a cool oven to dry off a little; when thoroughlv cold turn it 
out.— J/rs. J. II. 

Simple Way of Cookinu Liver. 
Wash calf's liver and heart thoroughly ; chop them fine aa 



CAJ.f's brains VEAL DAUBE. 16i 

possible, after they have been boiled till very tender ; then add 
pepper ana salt, and one tablespoonful flour, straining into it a 
little of the water.— J/r^. J. P. H. 

Calf's Bkains. 

Beat up the brains with a little lemon-peel cut fine, a little 
nutmeg grated, a little mace beaten, thyme and parsley 

Shred fine the yolk of an Qg^^ and dredge with flour. Fry 
in little flat cakes and lay on top of the baked head. 

If for soup, mix in one-half the brains with the soup while 
the soxip is boiling, and make the other in cakes and lay together 
with forcemeat balls in the soup. — Mrs. R. 

Calf's Head. 
^ Split the head, take out the brains, boil till it will fall to 
pieces. Cut it up fine and season with pejjper, salt and nutmeg 
to the taste ; add one-quarter pound of butter, wiueglassful 
wine, and the bi-ains, which are not to be boiled with the 
head. Put in a dish and bake with or without pasto. — Mrs. 
J. D. 

Baked Calf's Head. 

Boil until tender, then cut into pieces and put into a deep 
dish with pepper, salt, a few cloves, mace, a little thyme. 

A spoonful butter with flour, well mixed through the meat, 
a layer of bread crumbs on top. Then add a wineglass of wine 
and fill up the dish with the water the head was boiled in, and 
bake three-quarters of an hour. Garnish with forcemeat balls 
and rings of hard-boiled eggs, just before sending to the table. 
— Miss N. 

Veal daube. 
After the head of a calf is skinned and the feet prepared by 
taking off" tlie hoofs, scraping, etc., thiow them into cold walt;r 
for twenty-four hours. Put them in a boiler of cold water, and 



168 MUTl'ON AND LAMB. 

simmer until the flesh leaves the bones and there is but little 
water left. 

Throw in salt, pepper, minced onion, parsley, and thyme ; 
take the meat and bones out. Beat up two eggs until light, 
add two tablespoonfuls cold water, then the liquor from the 
boiler. Stir all together, boil up and strain on the meat from 
the head, which must first be cut up or picked fine and chopped 
with six hard-boiled eggs, and seasoned to the taste with the 
juice of one lemon and wineglass of jelly. This is set aside in 
a mould or bowl and eaten cold with gai-nish of sci-aped horse- 
radish and parsley. The calves' feet make another good dish by 
drying first, then dipping in batter made of an egg, one spoon- 
ful of flour, one small teacupful milk, with a little salt, and 
frying. — 3frs. S. T. 



MUTTON AND LAMB. 

When the weather will admit of it, mutton is better for 
being kept a few days befoi'e cooking. The saddle, which is 
considered the finest piece, consists of the back or loin and 
upper part of the hind legs. In getting this nice roast, however, 
you spoil the hind quarter, as the saddle takes some of the 
nicest parts of this and leaves it too dry to cook by itself. The 
hind quarter and loin together make a very nice dish — the 
latter being fat and juicy. 

The fore quarter is sometimes cut by taking off the shoulder 
and taking the rib-piece, making a piece called the brisket or 
breas*^, and many persons esteem this the choicest part of the 
mutton. The ribs cut next to the back are used for mutton 
chops. 

When you have a large sup[)ly of mutton on hand, it is well 
to put the hind quarters in brine, as you can thus corn them as 



TO BOAST MUTTON — ROAST LEG OF MUTTON. 169 

nicely as beef. As mutton spoils easily, this plan is very ad- 
visable. 

Whilst boiled mutton is very nice, lamb is spoiled by this 
mode of cooking. If lamb is to be roasted, it should be cover- 
ed with the caul, as the fat, dripping from this, will preserve 
^he moisture of the meat. 

In carving the fore quarter of lamb, first take off the shoul- 
der and then cut the ribs in strips. 

Lamb is seldom cut except in quarters, and when nicely cook- 
ed there is nothing better. It should be four months old before 
being eaten. The season for lamb is from May to August, 
whilst that for mutton is from August to Christmas. 

To EoAST Mutton. 
The hind quarter is the nicest part of the mutton to roast, and 
requires longer to cook than lamb. Put it in a pot of boilino 
water and let it simmer one hour. Lift it into a baking-pan, 
rub with salt and pepper (too much salt makes the meat tough). 
Rub over it a little lard and then dredge with flour : skim off 
the top of the water and pour over it. Set it in a hot oven, 
basting frequently to prevent it from being hard and dry ; roast 
till thoroughly done. This is nice to set aside for a cold dish, 
garnished with horseradish and eaten with currant jelly. — Mrs. 

p. w. 

KoAST Leg of Mutton. 
Choose young and tender mutton. Take off the shank — wash 
it well; let it lie fifteen or twenty minutes in salt water to 
take the blood out. Rub with little salt and pepper well. 
Lay on a grate, which will go nicely in a baking-pan, over one 
pint boiling water ; break the bones of the shank in the water, 
adding more pepper and salt. Set it in a very hot oven, and 
baste frequently to prevent it from being hard and dry. When 
it is of a light brown, cover with sheets of buttered paper. 
Place it cm a dish ; add minced parsley to the gravy, which 
should be brown. Cover the roast with grated brown cracker 

15 



170 KOASr SADDLE OF MUTTON IJKOILICD MUTfON. 

unci gariush at intervals with chopptul parsley ; pour tlic gravy 
in the dish, not over it. Mutton should always be j)erfectly 
done. — Mrs. aS'. T. 

Roast Saddle of Mutton. 
Trim the joint carefully, roast it at a brisk, clear fire ; baste 
frequently, and when done dredge it plentifully with salt, and 
r.erve with the gravy well freed from fat. 

To Boil a Leg of Mutton. 
Make a paste of flour quite plain, mixed stiff with water, roll 
out as for a meat pudding ; break and turn in the shank bone ; 
then cover the leg of mutton carefully with the paste; tie up 
tight in a well-floured cloth. Have ready sufficient boiling 
water, place in the joint, allow ten minutes for checking the 
boiling, and twenty minutes for each pound of meat. Carefully 
remove the paste, which can be done by one cut longitudinally 
and one cut across. Strain the gi'avy and serve as usual. 

UoiLED Leg of Mutton. 
Dip a cloth in hot water, tie up the mutton and put in boil- 
ing water. Boil slowly for two hours, or longer, if not kept 
constantly boiling. — Mrs. 1\. 

Broiled Mutton. 
After a leg of mutton has been washed and wiped ilry, place 
in a cloth that has been dipped in boiling water. Boll it up, jjin 
and tie securely ; put in a pot of boiling water. Let it sianner 
several hours, removing the scum that rises when it first begins 
CO boil. If a small leg of mutton, it will require a shorter time 
to cook than a large one. Just before it is done, add enough salt 
to season it properly, half an onion, and one heaping teaspoonful 
of black pepper. When this has properly seasoned the meat, take 
from the fire, unwrap and drain. Serve with di-awn butter, 
adding capers or nasturtium seed, or if you have neither, use 



TO COOK A SADDLE OF MTTTTON TO CORN MUTTON. 171 

chopped sour pickle instead. Muttou should always be served 
with caper sauce, if possible. — 3/?-s. S. T. 

To Cook a Saddle of Mutton. 

Meats are all better for being kept a day or two before cook- 
ing, particularly mutton. If the mutton be tender, do not boil it, 
but put it in a pan of water, set it on the stove, and cook 
slowly, basting constantly with the gravy or water in. the pan ; 
with pepper and salt to taste. Just before it is done, put some 
scraped horseradish over it, and garnish the dish with the 
same; add a little ground mustard and grated bread or cracker; 
pour the gravy over it, and grate bread over, and set aside to 
cool. Tliis is for cold mutton. All meats are better for roast- 
ing before a fire than in a stove. — Mrs. P. W. 

Saddle of Mutton. 

This should be covered witli paper, and carefully roasted or 
baked. Season with a little pepper and salt; garnish with 
horseradish. 

Iced Saddle of Mutton. 
Reserve the drippings from the meat when it is roasting. 
After the saddle is nicely cooked, let it get cold. Then take 
the white part of the giavy and melt it to the consistency of 
cream. Pour this over the saddle until it is covered with a 
white coat ; if it appears rough, warm an iron spoon and pass 
over it until it is smooth. Place it on a dish, and dress the 
dish all round with vegetable flowers and curled parsley, using 
the parsley to ornament the saddle also. — Mrs. Judge S. 

To Corn Mutton. 
Mutton being less apt to keep than other meat, it is well, 
when you have an over-supply, to corn it exactly as you would 
corn beef. — Mi^s R. S. 



172 shoulder of mutton corned — mutton chop. 

Shoulder of Mutton Corned. 
Take a small slioulder of mutton, rub it >vitli 
2 ounces salt. 
2 ounces sugar. 
^ ounce saltpetre. 
Atier twenty-four liours, rub it again with the pickle; next 
day boil this in paste like the leg of mutton. Serve smothered 
in onion sauce. 

Mutton Chop. 

Get from your butcher nicely shaped mutton chojis, not too 
long. Put them into a pan with pepper and salt, and barely 
enough water to cover them. 

Cover close and simmer till done ; drain, wipe dry ; pepper, 
salt and butter them ; with a spoon, cover with an egg beaten 
stiff. Sift over pounded crackers. Put in a pan and set in an 
oven to brown. — 3£ts. S. T. 

Mutton Chops dressed with Tomatoes. 

Place in a pan tomatoes peeled and chopped ; season with 
butter, pepper, sugar, and salt. 

Take from your gridiron some nicely broiled mutton chops ; 
put into a pan, cover close, and simmer for fifteen minutes. 
Lay the chops on a hot dish, put on a little butter, pepper and 
salt. 

With a spoon, cover each chop with tomatoes. Sift over 
pounded cracker and serve. — Mrs. S. T. 

Mutton Chop. 
Cut the steaks ; pepper and salt them. Broil them lightly 
on both sides ; take them off the gridiron, lay them on a spider. 
Slice \ip one large onion and stew until it becomes tender ; put 
a layer between each chop and stew until they become tender. 
Take out the steaks, cover them closely or tilt the gravy to the 
side of the vessel, till it is brown ; stir in a lump of butter. — 
Mrs. A. P. 



MUTTON CHOP — MUTfON STEW. 173 

Mutton Chop. 
Mushrooiu catsup is a nice flavoring. Put pepper and salt 
on the chops and lay them in melted butter ; when they have 
imbibed sufficient, take out and cover with grated bread crumbs 
and broil. — Mrs. R. 

Broiled Mutton Chops. 
Beat the mutton chops till tender ; then trim, making them 
of uniform size and shape ; pour on them boiling water. L»it 
them remain in it a minute, dry them and rub with pepper, 
salt, and fresh butter. Lay on a gridiron over hot coals, always 
remembering to cover them while broiling. Turn them, and as 
soon as nicely browned place in a hot dish, pepper again, pour 
oyer them melted butter, and serve. — Mrs. S. T. 

Mutton Stew. 
Cut slices of rare mutton and put on to stew in a little water ; 
when nearly done put in — 

1 teacup of sweet pickle vinegar. 

3 large spoonfuls jelly. 

A little salt. 

1 teaspoonful mustard. 

\ teacup of walnut catsup. 

Butter size of an egg. 
Stew slowly a short time. — Mrs. F. D. 

Mutton Stew. 
Slice cold mutton or lamb, lay it in a baking dish ; put iu — 
1 teaspoonful black pepper. 
1 teaspoonful red pepper. 
1 teaspoonful celery-seed, pounded. 

Rather more than 1 teaspoonful each of pounded cloves, cin 
namon and mace. 

1 teacup of yellow pickle vinegar. 
1 glassful wine. 



174 GRILLED SLICKS OF MUTTON — TO ROAST LAMB. 

Slice up a little yellow pickled cucumber, sugar to taste, one- 
quarter pound butter, one roll of light bread broken in small 
pieces or cut in little slices, and toasted before used. 

In preparing this dish put a layer of the meat and seasonings 
altei-nately. 

The peppers, celery -seed, cloves, cinnamon, and mace must all 
be pounded fine. — Mrs. G. 

Grilled Slices of Mutton. 
Cut some rather thick slices of underdone cold mutton, score 
them well and rub in plentifully some common mustard, salt, 
and cayenne pepper ; then broil them over a clear fire, and 
serve with onion sauce. 

Sheep's Tongues. 

Boil them till the skin can be taken off; split them, and put 
them into a stew-pan, with some gravy, parsley, mushrooms, and 
one minced shallot, and some butter, some pepper, and salt. 

Stew till tender, and strain the gravy over them ; or they 
may be glazed and .served with the gravy under them. Sheep's 
tongues may also be skinned, larded, braised, and glazed ; and 
served with onion sauce. 

To Roast Lamb. 
The hind quarter is the nicest piece for roasting. Drop it in 
a pot of boiling water ; boil half an hour, put it in a pan, dredge 
it with lard, pepper, flour, a little salt ; .skim the top of the 
wa+fir in which it is boiled, and pour over it ; as soon as the 
gravy accumulates in the pan keep it basted frequently to pre- 
vent it from being hard and dry. Lamb should be cooked done 
to be good. — Mrs. P. W. 

To Grill a Shoulder ok Lamb. 
Half boil it, score and cover it with egg, crumbs, and parsley 
seasoned as for cutlets Broil it over a very clear, slow fire, oi 



lamb's fie ad fricassee — lamb's head. 175 

put it ill a Dutch oven to brown it ; serve with any sauce that 
is liked. A breast of lamb is often grilled in the same way. 

Lamb's Head to Fricassee. 
Parboil the head and haslet (the liver excepted) : cut (lie 
meat in slices from the head ; slice the heart, tongue, etc., and 
fricassee as for chicken. Have the liver fried in slices with the 
sweetbreads and slices of bacon a'nd bimches of parsley. Pour 
the fricassee into the dish, and garnish with the fried pieces. — 
3Irs. li. 

Lamb's Head. 

Boil the head and liver, but so as not to let the liver be too 
much done. Take up the liead, split it through the bone, which 
must remain with the meat on. Cut the meat across and 
across with a knife, grate some nutmeg on it and lay it on a 
dish before a good fire; then throw over it some grated bread 
crumbs, some sweet herbs, some allspice, a little lemon peel 
chopped fine, a very little pepper and salt. Baste it with 
butter, and dredge a little flour over it. 

Just as it is done, take one-half the liver, the lights, the 
meat, the tongue ; chop them small with six or eight spoonfuls 
water or gi'avy. First shake some flour over the meat and stew 
it together ; then put in the gravy or water, a good piece of 
butter rolled in a little flour, pepper and salt, and what runs 
from the head in the dish. Simmer all together a few minutes, 
and add half a spoonful of vinegar ; pour it on the head. Lay 
the head on the centre of the mince-meat; have ready the other 
half of liver, cut in pieces and fried quickly with slices of bacon 
and lemon; lay these around the dish and serve. — Jtfrs. T. 

Decorations and Garnishes for Cold Meats and Salads. 
The day before giving a dinner or evening entertainment, 
gather up mediiun and small sized pure white and yellow tur- 
nips, carrots, red and pink beets, the difierent colored radishes. 
From these the most beautiful flowers can be cut ; camellias, 



176 POULTRY. 

roses, dahlias, tulips, tuberoses, etc. No explicit directions can 
be given except, first, smoothly to pare each vegetable, iaking 
care not to keep them too near the fire, which will cause them 
to wilt and lose the waxy freshness which makes them so 
beautiful. Each flower may be laid on a cluster of green leaves 
or curled parsley, and over the cold meats, and around the edge 
of the dish. 

The cutting of these flowers makes a charming and interest- 
ing pastime for the young members of the family, in the even- 
ing before. — Mrs. C. G. 



POULTRY. 



In summer, kill and dress the poultry the day beforehand, 
except chicken for frying, which is not good unless killed the 
same day it is eaten. 

The best way to kill a fowl is to tie it by its legs, hang it up, 
and then cut off its neck. In this way, it dies more quickly, 
suffers less, and bleeds more freely. 

It is best to pick fowls dry ; though, if you are pressed for 
time, you may facilitate the picking of chickens, as well as of 
partridges and other small birds, by putting them first into 
water, hot, but not boiling. Then take off the feathers carefully, 
so as not to break the skin. Never scald a turkey, duck or 
goose, ho-wever, before picking. 

To draw the crop, split the skin of all poultr}"^ on the back of 
the neck. Pull the neck upward and the skin downward, and 
the crop can be easily pulled out. Then cut ofi" the neck close 
to the bodv, leaving the skin to skewer at the back of 'the neck 
after the aressing has been put in. Make an incision under 
the rump lengthwise, suflicient to allow the entrails to be easily 
removed. Be careful not to break the gall, and to preserve the 



POULTRY. 177 

liver whole. Cut open the gizzard, take out the inuer skin, 
and wash both carefully. Wash the bird inside several times, 
the last time with salt and water. Some persons object to 
using water inside or outside, but I consider it more cleanly to 
wash the bird first and then wipe it dry with a clean towel. 
It should then be himg with theneck downwai-ds till ready to 
cook. 

The head, neck, and feet, after being nicely washed and the 
bones in them broken, should be stewed in the gi'avy, as they 
make it much richer. 

It is said that throwing chickens into cold water immediately 
iafter they have finished bleeding, and allowing them to remain 
there ten or fifteen minutes, will make them deliciously tender, 
which can be accounted for scientifically. Frozen fowls or game 
should be thawed gradually, by being laid in cold water. If 
cooked without being thawed, it will require double time, and 
they will not be tender nor high-flavored. 

The tests by which you may tell the age of a turkey are 
these. An old turkey has rough and red legs, and if a gobbler, 
long spurs, while young turkeys have black legs, and if gobblers, 
small spurs. The fatter they are and the broader their breasts, 
the better. When dressed, the skin should be a yellowish 
white, and, if tender, you may easily rip it with a pin. If, 
when you bend back the wings, the sinews give and crack, 
this is another test of the turkey being young, and the same 
test will apply to other fowls. The bill and feet of an old 
goose are red and hairy. A young goose has pen feathers and 
its flesh is whiter than that of an old one. 

If young, the lower part of a hen's legs and feet are soft and 
smooth, while a yoxmg cock has small spurs. When di-essed, 
the flesh should be white and the fat a pale yellow. Turn the 
wing back, and if the sinews snap it is a sign the chicken is 
young. 

A few words on the subject of carving may not be out of 
place here. A sharp knife, with a thin and well tempered 



178 EOAST TUKKEY. 

blade is essential to good carving. In carving a tui-koy, cut ofl 
first tlie wing nearest to you, then the leg and second joint, 
then slice the breast till a rounded, ivory-shaped piece appears. 
Insert the knife between that and the bone, and separate them. 
This part is the nicest bit of the breast. Next comes the 
merry-thought. After this, turn over the bird a little, and just 
below the breast you will find the oyster, which you will sepa- 
rate as you did the inner breast. Tlie side bone lies beside tlie 
rump, and the desired morsel can be taken out witliout separat- 
ing the wliole bone. Proceed with the other side in the sainc^ 
way. The fork need not be removed during the whole process. 
Chicken and partridges are carved in the same way. 

Roast Tuhkey. 
Wash nicely in and out. Plunger into boiling water ten min- 
utes. Have ready a dressing of 

Bread crumbs. 

Hard boiled eggs, chopped fine. 

1 tablespoonful butter. 

Minced parsley, thyme and celery. 
After rubbing the cavity well with salt and pepper and put- 
ting in a slice of pork or bacon, fill with the above dressing. 
Do tlie same also to the croji, so as to make the turkey look 
plump. Rub the turkey well with butter and sprinkle salt and 
])epper over it. Dredge with flour. Lay in the pan with a 
slice of pork or bacon and a pint of boiling water. Lay the 
liver and gizzai-d in the pan with it. Put in a hot oven, bast- 
ing and turning frequently till every part is a beautiful brown. 
When the meat is amber color, pin a buttered sheet of writing 
paper over it to keep it from becoming hard and dry. Cook 
three or four hours. Season the gravy with minced parsley and 
celery and serve with cranberry saur-e. — Mrs. S. T. 

lioast Turh'r. 
Wash the turkey thoroughly inside and out, having removed 



K(3AST TURKEY — KOAST TURKEV, WITH TRUFFLES. 179 

the insides. Make a dressing of bread soaked in cold water, 
drained and mashed fine, a small [)iece of melted butter or 
salt pork chopped, pepper and salt, sweet herbs, a hard boiled 
egg, chopped fine. 

Any kind of cooked meat is good, minced fine and added to 
the dressing. The body and crop must be filled with the dress- 
ing and sewed up. The giblets ought to be boiled tender, if 
they are to be used. Use the water in which they are boiled, 
for gravy, adding a little of the turkey drippings, seasoning 
with peppei', salt, and sweet herbs, and thickening with a little 
flour and watei', mixed smoothly. Place where it will boil. 

When the fowl is put on to roast, put a little water into the 
dripping-pan. At first it should be roasted slowly and basted 
frequently. Tie up the wings and legs before roasting, and rub 
on a little butter and salt. Serve with drawn butter. —J/z-s. TF! 

Moast Ttirkey. 

Put the gizzard, heart and liver in cold water and boil till 
tender. When done, chop fine and add stale bread, grated, salt 
and pepper, sweet herbs, if liked, two eggs well beaten. 

Fill the turkey with this dressing, sew the openings, drawing 
the skin tightly together. Put a little butter over the tiirkey 
and lay it upon the grate of your meat-pan. Cover the bottom 
of the pan well with boiling water. In half an hour, baste the 
turkey by pouring over it the gravy that has begun to form in 
the pan. Repeat this basting every fifteen minutes. In an 
oven of average temperature, a twelve-pound turkey will re- 
quire at least three hours' cooking. — 3Irs. A. D. 

Roast Turkey, with Truffles. 
Trufiles must be peeled, chopped and pounded in a mortar ; 
one and a half pound will do for one turkey. Rasp the same 
amount of fat bacon and mix with the truffles and stuff the 
turkey with it. This di-essing is usually plac(ul in the turkey 
two days beforehand, to impart its flavor to the fowl. Lay 



180 BOILED TURKEY TO STEAM A TURKEY. 

thin slices of fat bacon over tlie breast of the turkey, cover it 
with half a sheet of white paper, and roast two liours. Chest- 
nuts dressed in the same way as trufHes are found an excellent 
substitute.— J/rs. S. G. 

Boiled Turkey. 

Wash well with cohi water, then put on in milk-M'arm water, 
either tied in a coarse cloth dredged with flour or with a half- 
pound of riqe in the water. Keep well under water, and boil 
slowly three hours, adding salt just before it is done. When 
pei'fectly done and tender, take out of the pot, sprinkle in the 
cavity a little pepper and salt, and fill with oysters stewed just 
enough to plump them, and season, with butter, pepper, salt 
and vinegar. Place in a dish and set in a steamer to keep hot. 
Strain the liquor in which the oysters were scalded, add drawn 
butter, chopped celery, parsley and thyme; pour over the tuikey, 
and serve. If not convenient to use oysters, use egg and butter 
sauce. Garnish with sliced lemons. — Jifrs. S. T. 

Moiled Turkey. 
Prepare the turkey as for roasting. Tie it in a cloth or boil 
rice in the pot with it, if you wish it to look white. It is im- 
jjroved by boiling a pound or two of salt pork with it. If soup 
is made of the liquor, let it stand till next day and skim the 
fat. Season after heating. — Mrs. W. 

To Steam a Turkey. 
Rub butter, pepper and salt inside the turkey after it has 
been well washed, fill with oysters, sew up, lay in a dish and set 
in a steamer placed over boiling water. Cover closely and 
steam from two hours to two and a half. Take up, strain the 
gravy which will be found in the dish. Have an oyster sauce 
ready, prepared like stewed oysters, and pour into it this gravy 
thickened with a little butter and flour. Let it come to a boi 
and whiten with a little boiled cream. Pour this over the 



TUEKEY HASH BONED TURKEY. 181 

steamed turkey and send to tlie table hot. Garnish with sliced 
lemons. — 3Irs. S. T. 

Turkey Hash. 
Cut up the meat very fine. Stew the bones in a little water, 
then stir into this water the meat, adding a large tablespoonful 
butter, a cup of cream, salt and pepper, a little chopped parsley, 
thyme or celery (or else a very few celery-seeds). Stew all 
together. — Mrs. R. 

Devilled Turkey. 
Place the legs and wings (jointed) on a gridiron. Broil 
slowly. Have ready a sauce made of — 

1 tablespoonful pepper vinegar. 
1 tablespoonful made mustard. 
^. 1 tablespoonful celery sauce. 

1 tablespoonful acid fruit jelly. 
A little salt and pepper. 
Lay the broiled turkey on a hot dish. Pour the dressing 
and sift pounded cracker over it. — Mrs. S. T. 

Potato Stuffing for Turkeys and other Fowls. 

Mash smoothly six good -sized boiled Irish potatoes. Chop a 
small onion very fine and fry a light brown, in a frying-pan, 
with a dessertspoonful lard. Then add the potatoes with salt 
and pepper, and a lump of butter as large as a walnut. To this 
add one well beaten &^^,. stirring till perfectly dry. If for geese 
or ducks, add a little sifted sage and a small quantity of red 
pepper. — Mrs. McG. 

Boned Turkey. 

The turkey must be full grown, moderately fat, and picked 
dry. Do not remove the entrails. Cut off the neck about one 
inch from the body. Take ofi'the wings above the second joint 
and cut off the legs as usual. With a sharp pointed knife, 
snlit the skin from the end of the neck to the rump. Run the 
knife between the bones and flesh on one side, till you come to 



182 BONEU TURKEY. 

where tlie wing and leg join the body. Twist the wing and 
raise it, cracking the joint. Separate it from the body. Then 
proceed with the leg in the same way, on the same side. Run 
the knife between the bones and flesh till you reach the breast 
bone. Repeat this on the other side. Take out the craw. 
Carefully run a sharp knife under the rump, detaching it from 
tlje bone without cutting the skin, as it must come off with the 
flesh. Hold the turkey by the neck and pull the skin carefully 
down, vuitil the vijiper part of the breast bone is uncovered. 
Cut the flesh from the bone on both sides, till the end of the 
bone is nearly readied. The turkey must now be laid on the 
back and held by the neck, the front of the turkey being toward 
3'ou. Take hold of the skin of the neck with the left hand, 
pulling downwards with a knife iu the right hand, separate the 
skin from the end of the bone. The whole of the turkey is now 
detached from the carcass. Lay it on a table with the skin 
down. Pull the bones from the wings and legs, first rvmning 
the knife around so as to leave the flesh. Pull out all the ten- 
dons of the legs. Push them and the wings inside. Cut off 
the ring under the rump. All this miist be done slowly and 
carefully. Have ready a half-dozen slices of salt pork, and a 
salad made of shoat, veal or lamb, chopped and seasoned, as 
turkey salad, with celery, etc. Mix with this salad three or 
four large Irish potatoes, boiled and mashed, with a spoonful of 
butter. Now lay the turkey on the table, inside up and the 
neck from you ; pe[)per and salt it; lay three or four slices of 
pork on it, then a layer of the salad ; jiork again and salad 
alternately until filled ; draw the two sides together and sew 
it up, giving it as near as possible its proi)er shajje. Sew it up 
carefully in a cloth, place in a kettle of tlie proper shape, 
cover with boiling water, adding the broken bones, three pounds 
fresh lean beef, parsley, vhyme, onions and two dozen whole 
black peppercorns, with salt to the taste. Simmer three hours, 
then takt^ it from the water and remove the towel. Carefvdly 
remove all discolorations and settlings of the water from the 



MEAT JELLY FOR BONED TURKEY. 18S 

tui'key. Scald a clean cloth, wrap it up again ; pla :e it on its 
back, put a dish over it with a weight on it and set it in a cool 
place till next day. Unwrap and remove the twine with which 
it was sewed. Glaze it with a little meat jelly; just before 
the jelly congeals sift over a little cracker bi-owned and 
pounded; decorate with meat jelly and serve. Directions for 
preparing meat jelly follow. — Jifrs. S. T. 

Meat Jelly for Boned Turkey. 

As soon as the water in which the turkey was boiled is cold, 
take off all the fat and strain it, put it in a porcelain-lined 
kettle ; two ounces gelatine, three eggs, with shells, a wine- 
glass of sherry, port or madeira wine ; stir well. Add one 
quart of the strained liquor; beat rapidly with an egg-beater, 
put it on the fire and stir until it boils. Simmer ten or fifteen 
minutes. Sprinkle in a pinch of turmeric and strain just as 
any other jelly. When congealed break it up and place around 
the turkey. Cut some in thick slices and in fanciful shapes 
with paste cutters. Place some of these lozenges over the 
turkey and border the edges of the dish with them. — Mrs. 
S. T. 

Chickens. 

These, whether for boiling or roasting, should have a dress- 
ing prepared as for turkeys. Six spoonfuls of rice boiled with 
the chickens will cause them to look white. If the water is cold 
when they are put in, they will be less liable to break. They 
are improved by boiling a little salt pork with them. If not 
thus boiled, they will need salt. 

For broiling, chickens should be split, the inwards taken out, 
and the chickens then washed. Broil very slowly till done, 
placing the bony side down ; then turn it and brown the other 
side. Forty minutes is the medium time for broiling a chicken. 

For roast hicken, boil the gizzard and liver by themselves, 
and use the water for gravy. — Mrs. Col. W. 



184 roast chicken to steam chicken. 

Roast Chicken. 

Chicken should never be cooked the same day it is killed. 
Wash well with cold water, then pour boiling water over it and 
into the cavity. Rub the latter with salt and pepper, and fill 
with a dressing made of bread soaked in water and squeezed 
out, a tablespoonful b\itter, a little salt, pepper and parsley. 

Rub the chicken well with butter. Sprinkle pepper and salt 
over it and dredge with flour. Lay it into a pan with a slice of 
pork or bacon and a pint of water. Let it simmer slowly two 
hours, basting and dredging frequently. Turn the chicken so 
each part may be equally browned. Add chopped thyme and 
parsley to the gravy. 

Some persons think ground ginger a more delicate flavoring 
for the dressing than pepper. — Jifrs. S. T. 

To Boil Chicken. 

Never boil the same day the chicken is killed. Soak them 
overnight in weak salt and water. Place in a kettle of water, 
with a handful of rice and a little milk to make the chicken 
white. Simmer slowly two or three hours, removing the scum 
that rises when the chicken first begins to boil. Keep under 
the water, with an inverted deep plate. Just before takiug off 
the fire, add salt to the taste. Lay on a hot dish near the fire. 
Skim off the fat from the top of the liquor, sti-ain it and add 
chopped celery, parsley and thyme, drawn butter, a little pep- 
per and salt, or, if preferred, six hard-boiled eggs chopped fine. — 
Mrs. S. T. 

To Steam Chicken. 

Soak two hours, in salt and water, a fat young pullet. Drain 
and dry. Rub in the cavity a little salt and pepper and a large 
lump of butter. Fill with large, plump oysters, seasoned with 
pepper and salt, and sew up. Lay the cliicken on a dish or pan, 
and set it inside a steamer, which close and keep over boiling 
water four hours. When thoroughly done, lay on a dish aud 



8M0THEKED CHICKEN STEWED CHICKEN. 185 

pour over it drawn butter or celery sauce. Garnish with curled 
parsley, and serve. — 3Irs. S. T. 

Smothered Chicken. 

Kill the day before it is smothered. Split open the hack, as 
if to broil. When ready to cook, wipe dry with a clean towel, 
rub well with butter and sprinkle with pepper and salt. Put 
in a pan with a slice of bacon or pork and a pint of water. 
Simmer an hour or more, basting frequently. When thoroughly 
done, place on a hot dish. 

Stir into the gravy remaining on the fire a beaten egg, mixing 
it carefully. Pour this into the dish, but not on the chicken. 
Sift over it cracker, first bro^vned and then pounded. Garnish 
with parsley, and serve. — 3Irs. S. T. 

Stewed Chicken. 

Cut up the chicken as if to fry, adding the prepared head 
and feet. Soak in weak salt and water. If for dinner, do this 
immediately after breakfast. 

An hour and a half before dinner, put in a saucepan, cover- 
ing well with water. Let it simmer slowly for one hour. Take 
it out with a fork and lay in a bowl. Add a teacup milk and 
half a teaspoonful black pepper to the liquor. Let it boil up 
and strain on the chicken. Rinse the saucepan and return all 
to the fire. Beat one egg with a tablespoonful of floiir and one 
of milk until quite smooth. Mince some parsley, thyme, and a 
very little onion, and stir all into the saucepan. Then put in 
a tablespoonful of butter. Stir around and pour into a dish 
in which small pieces of toast have been neatly arranged. Gar- 
nish with curled parsley. — Mrs. S. T. 

Stewed Chicken. 
Cut up and lay in salt and water. Put them in water 
enough to cover tliem, with some slices of middling. Let them 
boil till nearly done. Then put in the dumplings, made Like 

16 



186 FKIED CHICKEN TO DRESS CHICKENS WITH TOMATOES. 

biscuit but rolled thin, and let them boil till done. Roll a 
piece of butter in flour, with pepper, salt, chopped parsley and 
celery, or a little celeiy-secd. When the gravy is thick enough, 
pour in a teacup of cream or milk, and let it boil up once. 
Take off the fire and serve hot. — 3frs. Col. W. 

Fried Chicken. 
This dish is best when the chicken is killed the same day it 
is fried. Cut off the wings and legs, cut the breast in two, and 
also the back. Wash well and throw in weak salt and water, 
to extract the blood. Let it remain for half an hour or more. 
Take from the water, drain and dry with a clean towel, half an 
hour before dinner. Lay on a dish, sprinkle a little salt over 
it, and sift flour thickly first on one side and then on the other, 
letting it remain long enough for the flour to stick well. Have 
ready on the frying-pan some hot lard, in which lay each piece 
carefully, not forgetting the liver and gizzard. Cover closely 
and fry till a fine amber color. Tlien turn over each piece and 
cover well again, taking care to have the cJiicken well done, 
yet not scorched. Take the chicken up and lay in a hot dish 
near the fire. Pour into the gravy a teacup of milk, a teaspoon- 
ful of butter, a saltspoon of salt, and one of pepper. Let it 
boil up and pour into the dish, but not over the chicken. Put 
curled parsley round the edge of the dish and serve. — Jfrs. 
jS. T. 

Juried Chicken. 

Kill the chicken the night befoj-e, if you can, and lay on ice, 
or else kill early in the morning. When ready, wipe dry, floui 
it, add pepper and salt, and fry in a little lard. When nearly 
done, pour off the lard, add one-half teacup water, large spoon- 
ful butter, and some chopped parsley. Brown nicely and 
serve. Meal mush fried is nice with the chicken. — 3frs. 
Col. W. 

To Dress Chickens with Tomatoes. 

Fry till a light brown. Then add some tomatoes, cut in 



TO FRICASSEE CHICKEN — CHICKEN PIE. 187 

small pieces, with the juice. Strain the tomatoes from the seed, 
season them with salt, pepper, a little sugar, and let them stew. 
—Mrs. J. B. D. 

To Fricassee Chicken. 
Wash and joint the chicken ; place the pieces in a stew-pau 
with the skin side down. Sprinkle salt and pepper on each 
piece. Add three or four slices of pork, stew till tender, take 
them out and thicken the liquor with flour, and add a piece of 
butter the size of a lien's egg. Replace the chicken in the pan 
and let it stew five minutes longer. When it is taken up, soak 
in the gravy some pieces of toast, put them on plates and lay 
the chicken on the toast, pouring the gravy over it. To brown 
the chicken, stew till tender, without the pork ; brown the pork, 
take that up, then put in the chicken and fry a light brown. — 

3Irs. Col. W. 

To Broil Chicken. 

Kill the chicken the day before using, split open in the back, 
nicely clean, and, if the weather is warm, slightly sprinkle 
with salt. If for breakfast, half an hour before press between 
the folds of a clean towel till dry, grease well with fresh butter, 
sprinkle Avith pepper and salt and lay on a gridiron, over hot 
coals, with the inside of the chicken down. Let it cook prin- 
cipally from this side, but turn often till the outside of the 
chicken is of a bright, yellow brown. When thoroughly done, 
pour over it melted butter, sprinkle pepper, and sift pounded 
or grated cracker. — Mrs. S. T. 

Chicken Pie. 
Cut up the chicken and place in a deep oven with one largo 
spoonful of lard. Let it brown a little and add one onion, pars- 
ley, thyme, sage and black pepper, to suit the taste. Pour on 
it a cupful boiling water, stir well and let it simmer till well 
cooked. Just before taking from the fire, rub together : 
I cup cream. 
1 spoonful butter. 



188 CHICKEN PIE CHICKEN PUDDING WITH POTATOES. 

Yolks of 2 hard-boiled eggs. 
1 grated nutmeg and otlier spices to the taste. 
Stir well and pour in a pan lined with a paste. — Mrs. A.. C, 

Chicken Pie. 

Make into a paste one quart of flour with the weight of four 
eggs in butter and a large spoonful of lard. Put the paste in a 
deep dish, lining the bottom and side with chicken interspersed 
with layers of very thin bacon. Add some large crumbs, 
some pepper, and a quarter-pound butter. Fill the dish with 
cold water, and yolks of four or six hard-boiled eggs, then 
dredge with flour and put on the top crust. Let it bake gradu- 
ally. It will take two hours to bake. — Mrs. Col. W. 

Chicken Pudding. 
Cut up the chicken and stew it a little, after which lay the 
pieces in a buttered dish with a few bits of butter, a little 
pepper and salt, and a little of the water in which the chicken 
was stewed. 

Make a batter of one quart milk, five eggs, a little salt. 
Pour this batter over the chicken, and bake half an hour. — 
Mrs. A. B. 

Chicken Pudding. 

10 eggs beaten very light, 

1 quart rich milk. 

\ pound melted butter. 

Pepper and salt to the taste. 
Stir in enough flour to make a tliin, good batter. Put four 
young chickens, nicely prepared and jointed, in a saucepan, with 
some salt and water and a bundle of thyme or parsley. Boil 
till nicely done, then take up the chickens and put in the 
batter. Put all in a deep dish and bake. Serve with gravy in 
ft boat. — Mrs. Dr. G. 

Chicken Pudding with Potatoes. 
Cut up a young chicken as if to fry, and parboil it Boil and 



TO ROAST GOOSE DEVILLED GOOSE. ISD 

mash Irish potatoes. Beat up three or four eggs, add to the 
potatoes, and thin ■« ith milk. Season with buttei', pepper and 
salt, stir in the chicken, and bake it. 

Boiled rice is a good substitute for potatoes. — Mi'S. E. TF". 

l!^ . B. — Most of the recipes given for turkey apply to pea- 
fowl, and most of those given for chicken may be used for 
guinea fowl. — 3frs. S. T. 

To Roast Goose. 

A goose must never be eaten the same day it is killed. If 
the weather is cold, it should be kept a week before using. 
Before cooking let it lie several hours in weak salt and water, 
to remove the strong taste. Then plunge it in boiling water, 
for jS.ve minutes, if old. Fill the goose with a dressing made of: 

Mealy Irish potatoes, boiled and mashed fine. 

A small lump of butter. 

A little salt or fi-esh pork chopped fine. 

A little minced onion. 

Parsley, thyme, and a pinch of chopped or powdered sage. 

Grease with sweet lard or butter. Lay in a pan with the 
giblets, neck, etc. Pour in two teacups of boiling water, 
set in a hot oven, and baste frequently. Turn so that every 
part may be equally browned. Serve with gravy or onion 
sauce. 

The above recipe will answer equally as well for duck. — 
Mrs. S. T. 

Devilled Goose. 

Plunge the goose into a pot of boiling water and let it remain 
half an hour. Pill with a stuffing made of : 

Mashed Irish potatoes, a heaping tablespoonful biitter, minced 
onions,, sage, parsley and thyme, half ateaspoonful black pepper. 

Place it in a pan with a slice of fat pork and a pint of broth 
or liquor in which any kind of meat has been boiled. 

Mix two tablespoonfuls pepper vinegar, celery vinegar, made 



190 TO PREPARE YOUNG DUCKS — SALADS. 

mustard, and one of acid fruit jelly. Butter the breast of the 
goose and pour this mixtiire over it, adding salt and pejper to 
tho taste. 

Place in a hot oven, dredge with flour and baste frequently 
till done ; when serve with its own gravy. This I'eceipt will 
answer equally as well for wild goose, — Mrs. S. T. 

To Prepare Young Ducks. 
Kill and hang to drain. Plunge, one at a time, in boiling 
water, then immediately in cold water, which makes them easier 
to pick. Kill some days before rising, or if obliged to use them 
the same day as killed, they are better roasted. — Mrs. R. 

To Stew Ducks. 
Truss the ducks and stufl' them with bread, butter, and onion. 
Flour them and brown tliem in lard. Have prepared slips of 
bacon, giblets, onion, water, pepper, salt, and a little clove or 
mace, if you like. Put in the ducks and let them stew gently 
but constantly for two hours. Then add the juice of gretm 
grapes or of a lemon, or else a little lemon pickle. Flour the 
ducks each time you turn them, and thicken with butter rolled 
in flour.— J/rs. Col. W. 



SALADS. 

In making salads, be careful to add the vinegar last Wliere 
oil cannot be obtained, fresh butter, drawn or melted, is an 
excellent substitute and is indeed preferred to oil by some per- 
sons, epicureans to the contrary notwithstanding. Always 
\ise good cider vinegar in making salads, as chemical vinegar iy 
sometimes very unwholesome. Mucli di'peuds on tlie rotation 
ill which you mix tlie ingredients for a salad, so I woidd cal) 



OYSTER SALAD SALMON AND LOBSTER SALAD. 191 

particular attention to the directions given on this point on the 
subsequent pages. 

Oyster Salad, 
■^ gallon fresh oysters. 
The yolks of four hard-boiled eggs. 

1 raAv egg, well whipped. 

2 large spoonfuls salad oil or melted butter. 
2 teaspoonfuls salt. 

2 teaspoonfuls black pepper. 
2 teaspoonfuls made mustard. 

1 teacxip good vinegar. 

2 good sized pickled cucumbers, cut up fine. 

Nearly as much ce ^'" as oysters, cut up into small dice. 

Drain the liquor fro. the oysters and throw them into some 
hot vinegar on the fire ; ^et them remain until they are plunqy, 
not cooked. Then put them at once into clear cold water; 
this gives them a nice plump look and they will not then shi'ink 
and look small. Drain the water from them and set them away 
in a cool place, and prepare your dressing. Mash the yolks as 
fine as you can and rub into it the salt, pepper, and mustard, 
then rub the oil in, a few drops at a time. When it is all 
smooth, add the beaten egg, and then the vinegar, a spoonful at 
a time. Set aside. Mix oysters, celery, and pickle, tossing xip 
well with a silver fork. Sprinkle in salt to your taste. Then 
pour dressing over all. — 3frs. E. P. G-. 

Salmon and Lobster Salad. 

If the salmon salad is made of the fish preserved in cans, 
drain it from the oil and mince the meat fine. Cut up one 
third as much lettuce or celery. 

For one box of salmon, boil four eggs hard ; lay them in cold 
water a few minutes, shell and separate the whites from the 
yolks ; lay the whites aside. Mash the yolks smooth with two 
tablespoonfuls sweet olive oil or one teacup sweet rich jailk or 



192 LOBSTEK SAI.AD-— TERRAPIN SALAD. 

creatn. The oil makes the smoothest and best paste. Dissolve 
in one teacup vinegar, 

1 tablespoonful sugar. 

1 teaspoonful salt. 

2 or more teaspoonfuls fine mustard. 
Pep2:)er to the taste. 

Mix this with the paste and toss lightly over the meat with 
silver fork. Ornament the dish in which it is served with 
the green leaves of the celery, or with curled parsley and the 
whites of eggs cut in rings. 

Lobster salad is prepared in the same way. Take the nicest 
parts of the lobster. — Mrs. C. C. 

Lobster Salad. 
Chop up one can of lobsters ; cut in small pieces as much 
celery. Then cream with one teacup butter, one tablespoonful 
mustard, one tablespoonful sugar, one teaspoonful salt, and 
yolks of four hard-boiled eggs, rubbed smooth ; stir in five 
tablespoonfuls pepper vinegar (simply pepper steeped in vine- 
gar and sweetened with a little sugar), and pour the mixture 
over the lobster and celery. — Mrs. S. T. 

Fish Salad. 
Boil four flounders, or any medium sized fish ; when done, 
take off the skin and pick out the bones, then shred very fine. 
Add pepper and salt, one tablespoonful mixed mustard, a half 
cup vinegar, and half a pound butter, and mix all well with 
the fish. Put into shallow pans, set in the oven and bake ten 
minutes. "When cold put over it a Kttle Worcestershire sauce, 
Hnd sherry wine. — Miss F. N. 

Terrapin Salad. 
Boil them until the shells will come off' easily and the nails 
pull out ; then cut into small pieces and carefully remove the 
sand-bag and gall. 



TURKEY SALAD. 193 

To three good sized terrapins, take six hard-boiled eggs ; re- 
move the yolks and rub into a powder with half a pound sweet 
butter. When creamy and light, add one teaspoonful flour. 
Put this with the meat into a saucepan ; season with cayenne 
pepper and salt, and let it boil for one or two minutes. Just 
before taking from the fire, add wine to taste, and if desired, a 
little mace. 

Be careful to remove the skin from the legs. — Mrs. A. 

M. B. 

Turkey Salad. 

Mince the turkey very fine. Have ready the following mixt- 
ure, for a large company. 

Twelve or foiirteen eggs boiled hard ; mash the yolks smooth 
with one spoonful water ; add to it pepper, salt, and mustard tc 
the taste. Two teaspoonfuls celery-seed, one teacup of fresh 
melted butter or fine olive oil, and pour in strong vinegar to the 
taste. 

Mix the turkey and celery, and pour over the mixture just 
before eating. — Mrs. F. C. W. 

Turkey Salad. 
Remove the skin and fat from a turkey ; mince the meat 
fine. 

Mince 2 or 3 slices lean ham. 

2 or 3 bunches celery. 

3 or 4 apples. 

3 or 4 cucumber pickles ; mix well together. 
Prepare a dressing of the yolks of four eggs, rubbed in a little 
thick cream. 

4 tablespoonfuls butter. 

2 teaspoonfuls black pepper. 

2 teaspoonfuls salt. 

2 teaspoonfuls of mustard. 

Vinegar to the taste. 

—Mrs. Br. S. 

17 



194 TURKEY SALAD CHICKEN SALAD. 

Turkey Salad. 

Boil two turkeys till well done, pick out all the bones, skin 
and fat, and cut up the balance in small pieces. 

Boil one dozen eggs hard, let them cool, then separate the 
yolks and whites, mash the yolks fine, chop the whites very fine 
and set them to one side. 

Have a large flat dish, in which put four large spoonfuls 
mixed mustard ; pour in a little oil, and with a fork rub it 
in till smooth, then a little vinegar, in which has been melted 
two full tablespoonfuls of salt, then oil, and alternately put in 
oil and vinegar, each time rubbing it in till well mixed. When 
you have mixed a whole bottle of oil and one pint vinegar till 
it is as smooth as butter, add one heaping teaspoonful cayenne 
pepper, three teaspoonfuls celery-seed rubbed fine in a mortar, 
and one large mango cut fine, put in stuffing and all. 

Have ready as much celery as you have fowl, cut fine, mix 
meat and celery carefully together, and ])our the dressing over 
idL—Mrs. E. I. 

Chicken Salad. 

One large chicken boiled ; when cold remove the skin and 
chop into a dish, over which throw a towel slightly dipped in 
cold water to keep the meat moist. When the celery is cut, 
put between clean cloths to dry. 

Take one tablespoonful best mustard, the yolk of one raw 
egg, which drop into a dish large enough to hold all the di-ess. 
ing; beat well for ten minutes and slowly add to the mustard 
one tablespoonful vinegar. 

When well mixed add three-eighths bottle of oil, a drop at a 
time, always stirring the same way. 

Kub the yolks of six hard-boiled eggs very smootli and stir in 
half a teacup of vinegar. Pour this mixture to the mustard, 
oil, etc., stirring together as lightly as possible. 

Add to the chicken one pint chopped celery, a little yellow 
pickle, and half a loaf of stale bread crumbs, and the oil taken 



OHIGKEN SALAD. 196 

from the water in which the chicken has boiled. Salt and pep 
per to taste. 

Pour on the dressing just before serving. If the salad is kept 
too cool the dressing will curdle. — Mrs. E. 

Chicken Salad. 

The meat of 2 boiled fowls chopped very fine. 

2 or 3 heads of cabbage cut fine. 

1 cup olive oil. 

^ pint vinegar. 

Yolks of 9 hard-boiled eggs. 

1 gill made mustard. 

1 small teaspoonful black pepper. 
>- 1 small teaspoonful salt. 

Mix smoothly with the oil and then add the vinegar. — 
Miss N. 

Chicken Salad for Thirty-Jive People. 
Yolks of 4 eggs beaten lightly. 
^ box of mixed mustard, and salt to the taste. 
Add slowly, beating all the time, one large sized bottle of 
best salad oil. Lastly, add two-thirds teacup of vinegar. — Mrs. 
C. C. McF. 

Chicken Salad. 

1 head cabbage. 

2 heads celery. 

2 chickens finely minced. 
10 eggs. 

3 small cucumber pickles. 
1 tablespoonful mustard. 
A little cayemie pepper. 

•^ cup butter ; \ cup cream, 

1 onion. 

1 teaspoonful sugar. 



196 CHICKEN SALAD — CELERY SALAD. 

Boil the eggs hard, masii the yolks, put in the seasoning with 
a little vinegar. 

Chop up the whites of the eggs, the pickle, chicken, cabbage 
and celery — then mix. If liked, add a little olive oil. — Mrs. 
O. B. 

Gldcken Salad. 

Boil a chicken ; while warm, mince it, taking out the bones. 
Put ib in a stewpan with boiling water. Then stir together 
until smooth, one quarter of a ])0und butter, one teaspoonful 
flour and yolk of one raw egg ; all of which add to the cliicken 
one half at a time, stirring all well together. 

Season with salt and pepper. 

Let it simmer ten roinutes ; then add half a gill of Madeira 
wine, and send to the table while hot. — Mrs. P. 

Celery .Salad. 
2 boiled eggs. 

1 raw egg. 

2 tablespoonfiils melted butter, or 1 of oil. 
1 tablespoonful sugar. 

1 teaspoonful mustard. 
■^ teaspoonful salt. 
•^ teaspoonful pepper. 
■^ teacup vinegar. 
Rub the yolks of eggs smooth, then add the oil, mustard, etc., 
the vinegar last. Cut the celery into pieces half an inch long. 
Set all in a cool place. 

Just before serving sprinkle over a little salt and black pep- 
per, then pour over the dressing. 

If you have any cold fowl, cliicken, or turkey left from 
dinner, chop it up and mix it with some of the above — equal 
proportions of both — and it will make a delicious salad ; or a 
few oysters left in the tureen will be a great addition to tho 
celery salad. — Mrs. S. T. 



tomato salad — veal and potato salad. 197 

Tomato Salad. 
8 large tomatoes. 
1 tablespoonful made mustard. 

1 tablespoonful salad oil. 

2 tablesijoonfuls white sugar. 
4 hard-boiled eggs. 

1 raw egg beaten. 

2 teaspoonfuls salt. 

1 saltspoon nearly full cayenne pepper. 
^ teacup vinegar. 
First rub the yolks of eggs smooth, adding mustard, oil^ 
sugar, salt, pepper and beaten raw egg — then the vinegar. The 
tomatoes should be peeled and sliced and set in the refrigerator 
— the dressing also. 

Just before serving, cover the tomatoes with ice broken up ; 
sprinkle over a little salt and pour over the dressing. — Mrs. 
S. T. 

A Salad of Turnips. 
Scrape six common sized turnips. 
Add 2 cups of sugar. 
1 or more cups vinegar. 
Mustard, celery-seed, and pepper to taste. 

—Mrs. G. A. B. 
Potato Salad. 
Boil your potatoes very carefully ; or, rather, steam them 
until very dry and mealy ; cut in slices and prepare a dress- 
ing of egg, onion, mustard, oil, pepper, salt, and vinegar, and 
pour over them. — W. S. S. 

Veal and Potato Salad. 

Take equal proportions of cold veal and boiled Irish pota- 
toes. 

Shred the veal and cut up the potatoes. Season with a little 
butter or oil, vinegar, salt, pepper, celery, and mustard. — Mrs. H. 



198 iri8h potato salad — lettuce salad. 

Irish Potato Salad, 
Cut ten or twelve cold boiled potatoes into small pieces. 
Put into a salad bowl with — 

4 tablespoonfuls vinegar. 
4 tablespoonfuls best salad oil. 
1 teaspoonful minced parsley. 
Pepper and salt to taste. 
Stir all well that they may be thoroughly mixed ; it should 
be made several hours before putting on the table. 

Throw in bits of pickle, cold fowl, a garnish of grated 
cracker, and hard-boiled eggs. — Mrs. C V. 3fcG., Alabama. 

Potato Salad. 
To one quart potatoes mashed fine and rubbed through 
a colander : 

1 tablespoonful fresh butter. 
1 teaspoonful salt. 

1 teacupful rich milk. 
Cream all together and beat until light. 

Rub the yolks of three hard-boiled eggs with — 

2 teaspoonfuls mustard. 
2 teaspoonfuls sugar. 

1 teaspoonful pepper. 
1 teaspoonful salt. 
Enough pepper vinegar to moisten. 
Then chop the whites of the eggs very fine and mix in. 
Put a layer of the potatoes in the salad-bowl ani with 
a spoon put the dressing over in spots. Another layer of pota- 
toes, then the dressing, and so on, putting the dressing on top. 
Garnish with curled parsley, and serve. — Mrs. S. T. 

Lettuce Salad. 
Take two lai'ge lettuces, after removing the outer leaves and 
rinsing the rest in cold water, cut lengthwise in four or six 
pieces, rub into a bowl and sprinkle over them — 



COLD SLAW. 



199 



1 teaspoonful salt. 

■^ teaspoonful pepper. 
3 ounces salad oil. 

2 ounces English, or 1 ounce French vinegar. 

Stir the salad lightly in the bowl until well mixed. Tarragon 
and chevies, or a little water or mustard cress. — Mrs. R. 

Slaw. 
Chop fine one head of cabbage put in a pan. 
1 cup cream. 
\^ teaspoonful mustard. 
1 teaspoonful salt. 
1 tablespoonful butter. 
1 tablespoonful sugar. 
"" And yolk of one egg, beateu light. 

When boiled add one-half cup of strong vinegar ; stir well 
and pour over the cabbage. — 3frs. E. T. 

Cold Slaw. 

Wash well and shred fine, a firm white cabbage. 

Boil one teacup vinegar. 

One tablespoonful butter in a little flour, stir this in the vin- 
egar. 

Beat the yolks of four eggs till light and stir also in the mixt- 
ure, just before taking from the fire. 

Add mustard, pepper, and salt, to the butter and flour, before 
putting in the vinegar. 

Pour all, when hot, over the cabbage and set away to cool. — 
Mrs. M. a 

Cold Slaw. 
Wash your cabbage and lay in cold water some hours. Have 
a seasoning of egg, mustard, oil, pepper, salt, celery-seed, and 
vinegar, and i)our over it. In winter the slaw will keep a day 
or two. — Mrs. W. 



200 lettuce dressed fish sauce. 

Lettuce Dressed. 

Take well headed lettuce, chop it fine and pour over a dressing 
made of salt and pepper, mustard, hard-boiled egg, and olive 
oil. 

Cream the yolk of the egg and mustard together with a little 
oil, until quite smooth. Add vinegar if desired. — Mrs. M. 

Lettuce Dressed. 
Lettuce chopped fine. 
^ cup vinegar. 
•^ cup ice-water. 
1 tablespoonful wliite sugar. 
1 teaspoonful salt. 

1 saltspoonful cayenne. 

2 hard-boiled eggs, chopped. 
1 onion chopped. 

1 tablespoonful made mustard. 

1 tablespoonful of olive oil. — Mrs. S. T. 



SAUCES. 



Sauce for Salad or Fish. 
Yolks of two hard-boiled eggs, mashed well with mixed 
mustard, pepper, salt, three tablespoonfuls salad oil, three of 
vinegar and one of tomato capsup. — 3frs. tT. II. F. 

Fish Sauce. 

Six hard-boiled eggs, chopped and stirred into two cups of 
drawn butter. 

Let it simmer, then add one tablespoonful of pepper-sauce, 
two tablespoonfuls minced parsley, a little thyme, and salt to 
the taste. 

Pour over the fish and slice a lemon overall. — Mrs. S. T. 



sauce fob fish — dutch sauce fok fish. 201 

Sauce for Fish, 

Yolks of three eggs, one tablespoonful vinegai', half a table- 
spoonful fresh butter, a little salt. 

To be stirred over a slow fire till it thickens, it must only 
be warm or it will curdle and spoil. — Mrs. S. 

Sauce for Cod's Head. 
Take a lobster, stick a skewer through the tail, to keep the 
water out; throw a handful of salt in the water. When it 
boils put in the lobster and boil half an hour ; pick off the 
spawns, if any, and pound them very fine in a marble mortar 
and put them in one-half pound drawn butter. Take the meat 
out of the lobster, pull it in bits and put it in your butter ; add : 

1 spoonful walnut catsup. 

1 slice of lemon. 

1 or 2 slices horseradish. 
A little pounded mace. 
Salt and cayenne pepper. 

Boil them one minute ; then take out the lemon aiul horse- 
radish, and serve it up in the sauce-boat. — 3frs. H. 

Dutch Sauce for Fish. 
^ teaspoonful flour. 

2 ounces butter. 

4 tablespoonfuls vinegar. 

Yolks of two eggs. 

Juice of half a lemon. 

Salt to the taste. 
Put all the ingredients, except the lemon juice, into a ste'V- 
pan ; set it over the fire and keep constantly stii-ving. When it 
is suflSciently thick, take it off", as it should not boil. If^ bow- 
ever, it happens to curdle, strain the sauce through a taminy, 
add the lemon juice, and serve. Tarragon vinegar may be us»;d 
instead of plain, and by many is considered far preferable. — 

Mr^. a 



202 MAITKE d'hote SAUCE — HORSERADISH SAUCE. 

MaItre d'Hote Sauce. 
It is nothing more than butter-sauce made thus : 
Add to one teacup drawn butter, the juice of one-half lemon. 

2 teaspoonfuls cliopped parsley. 
A little minced onion and thyme. 
Cayenne pepper and salt to taste. 

Beat with an egg- whip while simmering. Good for almost 
any dish of fish or meat. — Mrs. S. T. 

Fish Sauce. 

3 tablespoonfuls butter. 

1 wineglassful vinegar. 

2 wineglassfuls tomato or mushroom catsup. 

Pepper, salt, and mustard to the taste. Stew till well mixed. 
—Mrs. J. D. 

Anchovy Sauce. 

Soak eight anchovies in cold water, for several hours ; cu*^i 
up and stew in a very little water for twenty minutes ; strain 
into one teacup drawn butter. 

Pour all in a saucepan and set it on the fire. Beat it up 
until it comes to a boil ; pour into a sauce tureen. Add a little 
cayenne pepper ; one squeeze of lemon. — Mrs. S. T. 

Horsekadish Sauce. 
Grate one teacupful horseradish. 
1 tabJespoonful ground mustard. 
1 tablespoonful sugar. 

4 tablespoonfuls vinegar, or olive oil if prefeiTed. 
Pepper and salt. 
1 teaspoonful turmeric. — 3frs. J. II. T. 

Celery sauce is good made in the same way, by adding butter 
instead of oil, and celery instead of horseradish. — Mrs. P. W. 



pepper vinegae — ^mushroom sauce. 203 

Mushroom Sauce, for Fried or Broiled Fish. 

Get fine-grown fresh gathered mushrooms ; break them up 
and sprinkle salt over them. Let them lie for the juice to run 
out, stirring them often. When the juice has been extracted, 
strain it, boil well with a little ginger and pepper. 

Do not season much, as it is the mushroom flavor to be 
desired. You can add seasoning as required ; all necessary to 
keep it is enough salt and pepper. 

This makes a nice flavoring for any sauce or gravy mixed 
with soy or lemon pickle. — Mrs. G. C. 

Pepper Vinegar. 

Fill a quart bottle with small peppers, either green or ripe ; 
put in two tablespoonfuls sugar, and fill with good cider vine- 
gar. 

Invaluable in seasoning sauces, and good to eat with fish or 
meat. If small peppers cannot be obtained, cut up large pods 
instead. — Mrs. S. T. 

Tomato Sauce. 

Scald and peel six large ripe tomatoes ; chop them up and stew 
slowly. Cream one tablespoonful butter, one tablespoonful 
sugar, one tablespoonful flour, together. 

When the tomatoes are thoroughly done, and reduced to a 
fine pulp, add pepper and salt. 

Stir the butter, sugar, and flour in. Let boil up and serve. 
—Mrs. S. T. 

Mushroom Sauce. 

Roll a piece of butter as large as an egg into one heaping 
«^aspoonful sifted flour ; stir in two tablespoonfuls warm water ; 
ec it simmer. Pour in one teacvip cream, and stir ; throw in 
one pint young mushrooms, washed, picked, and skinned ; add 
pepper, salt, another small piece of butter. 

Let it boil up once, shaking the pan well, and serve. — Mrs. 
S. T. 



204 onion sauce white sauce for fowls. 

Onion Sauce. 

Boil fc ar or five large white onions in salt and water ; change 
the watei', then drain them. Choj) fine and boil with one tea- 
cup new milk, salt, pepper, and one tablespoonful peppe- sauce. 

Add drawn butter and serve. — Mrs. S. T. 

Nasturtium Sauce. 
This is made by stirring into one teacup drawn butter, three 
tablespoonfuls pickled nasturtiums, adding a little salt and pep- 
per. Simmer gently and serve.- — Mrs. IS. T. 

Apple Sauce. 
Pare and slice some tart apples ; stew until tender in a very 
little water, then reduce to a smooth pulp. Stir in sugar and 
butter to the taste, a squeeze of lemon juice, and a little nut- 
meg.— ilfrs. S. T. 

Mint Sauce. 
3 tablespoonfuls vinegar. 
2 tablespoonfuls mint. 
1 tablespoonful powdered sugar. 
1 saltspoonful salt. 
Mix ten minutes before using. — Mrs. S. T. 

Sauces especially suitable for Fowls, though they may he 
used for any kind of Meats. 

White Sauce for Fowls. 

Take the neck, gizzard, liver, and feet of fowls, with a piece 
of mutton or veal, if you have any, and boil in one quart water 
with a few whole peppers, and salt, till reduced to one pint ; 
then thicken with a quarter pound butter mixed with flour and 
boil it five or six minutes. 

Mix the yolks of two eggs with one teacup good cream ; put 
it in the saucepan, shaking over the fire till done. — Mis. Dr. S. 



SAUCE FOR BOILED POULTRY — DRAWN BUTTER. 205 

Sauce for Boiled Poultry. 
One stick of white, blanched celery, chopped very small ; put 
it in a saucepan with one quart milk and a few black peppei*- 
corns ; let it boil gently, till reduced to one pint. Keep stir- 
ring the celery up with the milk until it is in a pulp. Thicken 
the whole with the yolk of one fresh egg well beaten, and half 
a teacup of fresh cream. — Mrs. S. 

Celery Sauce. 
Chop celery into pieces half an inch long, enough to fill one 
pint measure, and stew in a small quantity of water till tender. 
Add one tablespoonful pepper vinegar, a little salt and pepper ; 
pour in one teacup cream or milk, then add a sufficient quantity 
ipf drawn butter.— Jfr^. S. T. 

Egg Sauce. 
Cut up six hard-boiled eggs, with salt and pepper to taste. 
Stir in a sufficient quantity of drawn butter, adding, just 
as you serve, minced onion, parsley, and thyme. — Mrs. /S. T. 

Asparagus Sauce. 

Parboil one bunch of asparagus, first scraping. When nearly 
done, drain and cut in small pieces. Stew in a teacup of milk, 
with pepper and salt. When done pour into drawn butter, and 
serve. — Mrs. S. T, 

Oyster Sauce. 

Scald one pint large fresh oysters, just enough to plump 
them ; adding one tablespoonful pepper vinegar, a little black 
pepper and salt. 

Pour into a sufficient quantity of drawn butter and serve. — 
Mrs. S. T. 

Drawn Butter. 

Take one-quarter pound of best fresh butter, cut it up and mix 
with it two teaspoonfuls flour; when thoroughly mixed, put it 
into a saucepan and add to it foui- tablespoonfuls c(»ld watei*. 



206 DRAWN BQTTEE — MUSHROOM SAUCE. 

Cover the pan and set it in a kettle of boiling watei-, shake i 
round continually, always moving it the same way. When th« 
butter is entirely melted and begins to simmer, then let it rest 
until it boils up. In melting butter for pudding, some substi- 
tute milk for water. — Mrs. Dr. S. 

Dravni JButter. 

Cream together one-quarter pound fresh butter, with two 
heaping teaspoonfuls sifted flour ; add to this six teaspoonfuls 
water. 

Put it in a small tin saucepan and set it in a vessel of boiling 
■water, until it begins to simmer, shaking it often. — 3Irs. S. T. 

Drawon Hutt&r. 

Rub a piece of butter in a little flour, add two or three table- 
spoonfuls boiling water. 

Shake continually over the fire without letting it boil, till it 
thickens.— ilfrs. P. W. 

Cranberry Sauce. 
Stew two quarts cranberries ; putting only water enough to 
keep from sticking to the bottom of kettle. Keep covered 
until nearly done, then stir in one quart white sugar, and boil 
until thick. The color is finer when the sugar is added just 
before the sauce is done. — Mrs. S. T. 

MusHHOOM Sauce. 

Wash and pick one pint young mushrooms, rub them with 
salt to take ofl' the tender skin. Put them in a saucepan with 
a little salt, nutmeg, one blade of mace, one pint cream, lump »f 
butter rubbed in flour. 

Boil them up and stir till done, then pour it round the 
chickens. Garnish with lemon. — Mrs. C C 



SALAD DRESSING — ^DRESSING FOK SALAD. 207 

SALAD DRESSINGS. 

Take the yolk of one raw egg ; add to that one-half table- 
spoonful of either dry or thickly mixed mustard, salt and pep 
per to your taste. 

When well mixed together, add sweet oil in very small 
quantities, at a time, stirring briskly until it is very thick. 
Then add a little vinegar, but not sufficient to make the dress- 
ing tliin. Tliese are the proportions for the yolk of one rav 
egg, sufficient for four people. The quantity of eggs, mustard, 
etc., must be increased in proportion to the quantity of dressing 
needed. — Mrs. McK. 

Salad Dressing. 
Beat two eggs. Add butter size of half an egg. 
\ teaspoonful mustard rubbed smooth in a little water. 
4 tablespoonfuls vinegar. 
■^ teacupful boiling water. 

Set it in a bowl on top of the tea-kettle and stir until as 
thick as cream. — Mrs. W. H. M. 

Dressing. 
To one tumblerful vinegar, warmed in a stewpan, add four 
beaten eggs ; stir for a few minutes till cooked like boiled cus- 
tard. Then throw in : 

A teaspoonful of salt. 
1 teaspoonful of sugar. 
1 teaspoonful of mustard. 
1 teaspoonful of pepper. 

A lump of butter size of half an egg, instead of oil. 
Stir well and pour out. Will keep for weeks. Good for 
chicken salad. — Mrs. W. 

Dressing for Salad. 
Turkey is more economical and better for salad than chicken 
To one turkey, weighing about nine pounds, allow nine eggs : 



208 DRESSING FOK CHICKEN SALAD. 

7 hard-boiled eggs. 

2 raw eggs, yolks and whites beaten separately. 

To each egg allow 2 tablespoonfuls salad oil, perfectly pure 

and sweet, 
1 saltspoouful salt. 

1 saltspoouful made mustard. 

2 saltspoonfuls cayenne pepper to the whole amount. 
Celery to the taste. 

Lettuce leaves, if in season, using only the heart. 

The juice of 2 lemons. 

This will last a week.— Mrs. A. M. D. 

Dressing for Chicken Salad. 
To four chickens, the yolks of twelve eggs mashed very 
smooth with : 

1 raw egg beaten light. 

\ teacup of mustard. 

^ teaspoonful red pepper. 

1 teacup salad oil. 

1 cup of vinegar. 

1 quart of cut celery. 

Salt to the taste. 



-Mrs. J. W. 



Lettuce Dressing. 



1 raw egg. 

1 tablespoonful sugar. 

1 teaspoonful salt. 

\ teaspoonful mustard. 

A little cayenne pe])per (never use black pepper on h^ttuce), 

2 tablesjioonfiils best olive oil. 

1 tablespoonful vinegar. — Miss R. S. 

Dressing for Caijbage. 

The yolk of an egg. 
1 teaspoonful salt. 



SANA MAYONNAISE — SALAD FOR SLAW. 209 

1 teaspoonful mustard. 

2 teaspooufuls sugar, mashed smooth. 
1 cup of cream. 

Vinegar to your taste. 

—Mrs. E. O O. 

Sana Mayonnaise. 

The yolks (raw) of two eggs. 

Stir in oil, a drop at a time, until it begins to thicken, and 
then pour it in slowly still, but in greater quantities, stirring 
continually. Add cayenne pepper, salt, and vinegar to the 
taste. 

If mustard is liked in the sauce, it must be mixed with the 
yolks of the eggs before dropping the oil. 

This sauce should be nearly as thick as soft butter. It makes 
a delicious dressing for lettuce, celery, cold poultry or game ; 
and also for cold boiled fish or pickled salmon. If used with 
the latter, the salmon should be placed in the centre of the dish 
and covered thickly with sauce. 

Boiled chestnuts, peeled, small pickled onions, sliced cucum- 
bers, lettuce, etc., are a great addition, and should be used to 
dress or garnish the dish, but not be mixed with the salmon. — 
Mrs. E. P., Cin. 

Salad for Slaw. 

3 eggs well beaten. 
Nearly a cup of sugar. 
1 tablespoonful butter. 
1 tablespoonful mustard. 
Pepper and salt to your taste. 
Tumbler of milk. 
Tumbler of vinegar. 
Stir well over the fire until as thick as custard. Let it cooJ 
and pour over cabbage. — Mrs. R. A. 

18 



210 dee88ing foe cold slaw — salad dressing. 

Dressing for Cold Slaw. 

1 cup of vinegar. 

2 eggs well beaten. 
1 teaspoonful salt. 

1 teaspoonful mustard. 
1 tablespoonful sugar. 
1 tablespoonful butter. 
A little black pepper. 
Mix together the butter, salt, pepper, sugar, mustard ; add 
the eggs last. 

Have the vinegar boiling and pour it on, stirring all the 
time. Then pour it back in the saucepan and boil a few 
minutes. Pour on the slaw when cold. — 3Iiss JV. 

Lettuce Dressing. 

Yolks of 4 eggs. 

1 teacup milk. 

1 teacup vinegar. 

4 tablespoonfuls oil or melted butter. 
After mixing all well together, except the vinegar, let it 
pome to a boil. When cold, beat well, add the vinegar, salt, 
pepper, and made mustard to suit the taste. Keep corked in 
a bottle. — Mrs. A. M. D. 

Salad Dressing. 

Put one tumbler vinegar, and one lump butter, size of an 
egg, on to boil. 

Beat up the yolks of three or four eggs, and pour the boiling 
vinegar over them, stirring all the time ; return it to the fire 
and continue to stir, until it thickens like custard. When it is 
perfectly cold add one tumblerful cream, into which has been 
mixed one tablespoonful salt, one tablespoonful mustard, two 
spoonfuls sugar, and one spoonful bruised celery-seed. 

Bottle the dressing and it will keep for a month. — Mrs. P. 



celery dressing — brunswick stew. 211 

Celery Dressing. 

2 tablespoonfuls butter. 

2 beaten eggs. 

1 teaspoonful salt. 

1 teaspoonful mixed mustard. 

1 cup vinegar. 

1 cup fresh milk or cream. 
Boil and use cold. — Mrs. I. D. 

To Dress Celery. 
Beat light the yolk of one egg ; add : 

2 tablespoonfuls cream. 

1 tablespoonful white s\ig:ir. 
(^ 3 tablespoonfuls vinegar. 

1 teaspoonful olive oil. 
1 teaspoonful mustard. 
1 teaspoonful salt. 

— Mrs. Dr. S. 



BRUNSWICK STEWS, GUMBO, AND SIDE DISHES. 

Brunswick Stew. 

A twenty-five cent shank of beef. 

A five-cent loaf of bread — square loaf, as it has more crumb, 
and the crust is not used. 

1 quart potatoes cooked and mashed. 

1 quart cooked butter-beans. 

1 quart raw corn. 

1^ quart raw tomatoes peeled and chopped. 

If served at two o'clock, put on the shank as for soup, at the 
earliest possible hour ; then about twelve o'clock take the 
shank out of the soup and shred and cut all of the moat as fine 



312 BKUNSWICK STE-W. 

as you can, carefully taking out bone ana gristle, and then 
return it to the soup-pot and add all of the vegetables ; the 
bread and two slices of middling are an improvement to it. 

Season with salt and pepper to the taste ; and when ready to 
serve, drop into the tiireen two or three tablespoonfuls butter. 

This makes a tureen and about a vegetable- dish full. — 3Irs. 
R. P. 

Brunswick Stew. 

About four hours before dinner, put on two or three slices of 
bacon, two squirrels or chickens, one onion sliced, in one gallon 
water. Stew some time, then add one quart peeled tomatoes, 
two ears of grated corn, three Irish potatoes sliced, and one 
handful butter-beans, and part pod of red pepper. 

Stew altogether about one hour, till you can take out the 
bones. When done, put in one spoonful bread crumbs and one 
large spoonful butter. — Mrs. M. M. D. 

Brunswick Stew. 
Take one chicken or two squirrels, cut them up and put one- 
half gallon water to them. Let it stew until the bones can be 
removed. Add one-half dozen large tomatoes, one-half pint 
butter-beans, and corn cut from half a dozen ears, salt, pepper, 
and butter as seasoning. — Mrs. I. S. 

Brunswick Stew. 

Take two chickens or three or four squirrels, let them boil in 
water. Cook one pint butter-beans, and one quart tomatoes ; 
cook with the meat. When done, add one dozen ears corn, 
one dozen large tomatoes, and one pound butter. 

Take out the chicken, cut it into small pieces and put back ; 
cook until it is well done and thick enough to be eaten with a 
fork. 

Season with pepper and salt. — Mrs. B. 



GUMRO. 218 



Gumbo. 



Put one talilespoonful lard into a pan. Slice two onions and 
fry them in it a few minutes. Have ready a chicken cut up, 
and fry it in the lard till it slightly browns, also one or two slices 
of bacon or pork, and three or four bunches parsley cut up. 

Have a heaping plateful of ochra cut up ; piit that in the pan 
and let it wilt a few minutes (you must stir it), then add three 
or fou]' tomatoes cut up. Then put the whole into a stewpan, 
pour hot water to it, not quite as much as for soup. Let it boil 
until quite thick. Season with pepper and salt, also red or green 
pod pepper. 

It must be dished like soup and eaten with rice ; the rice to 
be boiled dry and served in a vegetable dish ; put one or two 
spoonfuls in a plate and pour the gumbo over it. — Mrs. G-. 

Gumho. 

Cut up two chickens, fry slightly with a little onion, and a 
few slices pickled pork. 

Put in three or four quarts boiling water, together with 
pepper and salt, eighteen okras, one-half peck cut up tomatoes. 

Stew one hour and a half. — Mrs. D. li. 

Gumho. 

Take one chicken, frying size, cut up in hot lard ; add one 
quart ochra chopped fine, and one good sized onion chopped fine, 
when the chicken begins to brown, stirring all the time until it 
ceases to rope and is a nice brown. 

Then put it into a deep vessel and pour on enough boiling 
water to make soup for ten or twelve persons, adding two or 
three tomatoes, skinned and sliced, two ears of tender corn, 
salt, and black and red pepper to the taste. 

Let the whole boil one hour. 

Boil rice very dry and serve with it. — Mrs. P McG. 



214 gumbc filit 1 la creole veal pates. 

Gumbo Filit a la Creole. 
Put into a deep pot one tablespoonful lard, when hot put ir 
one tablespoonful flour, stir in until brown, then slice one 
large onion and fry it till brown ; skim out the onion and do 
not put it back until a chicken cut up in small pieces has been 
fried. Stir it all the time. Have a kettle of boiling water 
near by ; pour one or two cups of water on the chicken, stir 
well and let it simmer slowly. Add : 
10 allspice. 
8 cloves. 

Red and black pepper. 
Parsley and thyme if you like it. 
Put in two quarts of water, boiling, and let it boil gently two 
hours. Have ready the liquor from one quart oysters, put that 
in with the water ; put the oysters in later, allowing them time 
to cook. When ready to serve stir in one tablespoonful filit, 
boil up once. To be eaten with rice cooked dry. 

N. B. JPUit is only pulverized sassafras leaves, dried and 
sifted ; you can make it yourself. — M'rs. S. , Xa. 

Veal Pat^s. 

3^ pounds leg of veal. 

^ pound salt pork. 

6 soda crackers rolled and sifted. 

1 tablespoonful salt. 

1 tablespoonful black pepper. 

1 nutmeg. 

2 eggs well beaten. 
Butter the size of an egg. 

Hash veal and pork together, cutting very fine Then mix 
seasoning very thoroughly and form into oval shapes. Put a 
small piece of butter and bread crumbs over the top, while in 
the baking disli ; half a teacup water, and baste frequently 
while baking. In moulding it and when mixing it keep wetting 



HASHED MUTTON MUTTON HASH. 215 

tlie hands in cold water, also wet the dish when ycu begin 
luouldiug it in shape. — Mrs. J. P. JEC. 

Hashed Mutton. 

Cut cold mutton into very thin slices, and make a gravy by 
boiling the bones for two hours with a little onion, pepper and 
salt. 

Strain this gravy and thicken it with a little flour, adding a 
small amount of tomato or mushroom gravy to flavor it, and 
a small piece of butter. Wlien the gravy is of a proper con- 
sistency, put in the slices of mutton, and let it simmer slowly 
for ten minutes. Serve on a platter with pai'sley and sippets 
of bread. 

Sashed Mutton. 

Fry in a saucepan three small onions, and three small slices 
of bacon or ham, until they are brown ; then add a little more 
than half a pint water, and thicken it with flour. Next strain 
it and add it to the meat with a little sauce ; pepper and salt 
to the taste. 

It will take about an hour to hash. 

Mutton Hash. 
Cut the meat up fine, putting the bones on to stew in water ; 
then take oixt the bones and put in the hash, with pepper, salt 
and gravy left from the day before. 

Let these stew at least half an hour. Put in one large 
tablespoonful browned flour. Add — 
6 tablespoonfuls red wine. 
1 tablespoonful walnut catsup. 
1 tablespoonful tomato catsup. 
A lump of butter rolled in a little flour. 
If a small dish, proportion the seasoning. 
Beef, goose, and duck hash can be made the same way. — ■ 
Mrs. R. 



216 rfOTCH POTCH — A NICE SIDE DISH. 

HOTCH PoTCH. 

During the summer season get lamb chops, which half fry. 
Cut up cabbage, lettuce, turnips, onions and any other vege- 
tables, which boil, with seasoning of pepper, salt, etc. ; one 
hour before dinner, put in the lamb chops, with some green 
peas ; boil the potatoes separately. 

Scotch Broth. 
3 pounds of the scrag end of a neck of mutton. 
1 onion. 
1 small turnip. 
A little parsley. 
A little thyme. 
Put the mutton in the pan and cover with two quarts cold 
water, add the vegetables and not quite one teacup rice ; one 
small carrot and a little celery added will give a nice flavor. 

When it boils, skim carefully, cover the pan, and let it 
simmer for two hours. Of course, the vegetables must be cut 

small. 

Meat Loaf, 

Chop fine whatever cold meat you may have, fat and lean to- 
gether ; add pepper and salt, one finely chopped onion, two 
slices of bread which have been soaked in milk, and one egg. 

Mix well together and bake in a form. This makes an 
admirable tea or breakfast dish. — Mrs. tT. 

Black Stew. 

Take any kind of fresh meat that has been boiled or roasted, 
cut up enough to make a dish ; put one tablespoonful currant 
jelly, one tablespoonful of wine, one large spoonful butter, one- 
half onion chopped, pepper and salt. 

Stir all together fifteen minutes. Pickle cut up is an inrprove- 
ment, and brown sugar can be used instead of currant jelly. — 

Mrs J. T. 

A NICE Side-dish. 

Make a mince meat of turkey ; after it is stewed put boiled 



MEAT CEOQUETTES — CHICKEN CKOQUEITE^^. 217 

rice around the dish and set it in an oven to brown. Then gar- 
nish with hard boiled eggs. — Mrs. E. I. 

Meat Croquettes. 

Any nice cold meat when nicely minced will make good 
croquettes, especially veal. Take about one-quarter loaf bread, 
well soaked in water and squeezed dry ; mix Avith the minced 
meat about one dessertspoonful chopped parsley, one dessert- 
spoonful ground ginger, three eggs, a jnuch of ground mace, 
pepper and salt, roll them into egg-shaped balls ; have ready 
two or three eggs well beaten, in one plate, and flour in another ; 
first roll in the flour, then in the egg, fi-y in boiling drippings ; 
serve hot. — Mrs. T. 

Croquettes. 

Take cold fowl or fresh meat of any kind, with slices of fat 
ham ; chop together very fine, add one-half as much stale bread 
grated, salt and pepper, grated nutmeg, one tables2)oonfal cat- 
sup, one teaspoouful made mustard, and lump of butter size of 
an egg. Mix well together till it resembles sausage meat ; 
mould them into cakes, dip into well beaten yolk of an egg, 
cover thickly with grated bi-ead. Fry a light brown. — Mrs. 
F. D. 

Croquettes. 

Boil or roast a turkey, chop the meat as flue as possible. 
Mix eight beaten eggs with the meat, add one quart of inilk, 
one-quarter pound butter, salt and pepper, a little mace. 

Stew all together for a few minutes, then take it off to cool 
and make into little cone shapes. Roll each one into pounded 
crackers and drop in boiling lard till a light brown. — Mrs. M. 
E. L. W., Md. 

Chicken Croquettes. 

Cold chicken, chopped parsley, a little cream, grated crackers, 
lemon flavoring, salt and pepper. Cut chicken ^eiy fine and 
season with salt and pepper ; add chopped ])av.sley, moisten with 

lit 



218 POTATO CROQUETTES CROQUErPES. 

cream sufficient to make paste ; mould in a wineglass with grated 
cracker or bread crumbs on outside. Fry quickly in liot lard. 
Brown ligMy. Lemon flavoring can be added at will. — Mrs. 

a. p. 

Potato Croquettes. 

Peel, boil, and mash one quart potatoes, mix with yolks of 
four egs:s and some milk. 

Set on the fire, stir two minutes ; set on a dish to cool or leave 
overnight. In the morning add a little milk, mix thoroughly, 
roll in bread crumbs ; divide in cakes and fry in lard. Take 
oflf when done ; drain, dish, and serve immediately. — Mrs. E. 

Croquette Balls. 
Chop up one quart of any cold meat very fine, to which add 
one pint stale bread. Mix up one egg, mustard, pepper, salt 
and butter, and pour over the bread and meat ; roll into balls, 
which must be rolled into the white of an egg, then into bread 
crumbs, and bake a nice brown. This is a nice side-dish for 
breakfast or tea. — Mrs. S. G. 

Croquettes. 

Have some nice pieces of veal or fowl, chopped fine, season 
with nutmeg, pepper and salt to your taste. 

Boil one-lialf pint milk with one small garlic. Thicken with 
two tablespoonfuls flour, and one tablespoonful butter. 

Let it remain till thoroughly done ; stir in the meat and then 
form the croquettes. Roll in bread crumbs, then the yolk of 
an egg, then in bread crumbs, and fry a nice brown. — Miss E. P. 

Croquettes. 

Take cold meat or fresh meat, with grated ham, fat and lean, 
chopped very fine — add one-half as much stale bread grated, 
salt, pepper, and nutmeg, one tablespoonful catsup, a lump of 
butter. 

Knead all well together — if not soft enough add cream or 



SAUSAGE CROQUETTES MINCE WITH BREAD CRUM15S. 219 

gravy. Make in cakes the shape of a pear ; dip them in the 
yolk of an egg beaten, roll in dried bread crumbs, and fry a 
light brown.— Mins M. C L. 

Sausage Croquettes. 

2 pounds of meat. 

4 eggs. 

1 cup butter. 

1 cup milk. 
Add powdered cracker or stale bread crumbs sufficient to 
thicken, while on the fire. Roll in oblong shapes and fry in 
lard. Koll the balls in cracker dust before frying. — Mrs. R. 
K. M. 

Sausage Croquettes. 

One pound sausage meat, two eggs, well beaten, and bread 
crumbs well minced. 

Make the meat into cakes, then roll in the beaten egg, and 
afterwards in bread crumbs. Fry in pan and serve hot. Cold 
ham served in the same way is delicious ; mince it very fine. — 

Mrs. a. 

Forcemeat Balls. 

One pound of fresh suet, one ounce ready dressed veal, oi 
chicken chopped fine, bread crumbs, a little shallot or onion, salt 
and pepper (white), nutmeg ; parsley and thyme, finely shred. 

Beat as many eggs, yolks and whites separately, as will make 
the above ingredients into a moist paste ; roll into small balls, 
and fry in boiling lard. When of a light brown, take out with 
a perforated skimmer. Forcemeat balls made in this way are 
remarkably light, but being somewhat greasy, some persons 
prefer them with less suet and eggs. — Mrs. A. M. D. 

Mince with Bread Crumbs. 
Chop up any kind of cold meat very fine, place in a baking 
dish a layer of bread crumbs, seasoned with lump of butter, 
black pepper, and salt. 



220 MINCE WITH POTATOICS HASH. 

Then a layer of minced meat, and so on with alternate layers, 
till the dish is filled. Pour over all a cup of rich cream, and 
be sure to have enough lumps of butter to make it rich. Bake 
until it is a good brown on top. — Mrs. C. M. A. 

Mince with Potatoes. 

Chop fine any cold meat; parboil enough Irish potait)es to be 
two-thirds as many as there is chopped meat. Mix all together 
with one raw egg, one onion, black pepper, and salt. 

Fry with butter, either in large or small cakes in a pan, the 
cakes rather larger than sausages. If you have cold ham, it is 
an advantage to add some of it to the mince ; and the whole is 
very nice made of cold pickled beef. — Mrs. C. M. A. 

Pot Pourri. 
Take any kind of fresh meat chopped fine, and put into a 
stewpan with a little warm water, pepper and salt, and chopped 
onion. Cook twenty minutes ; then put into a bakiug-dish 
with an equal quantity of bread crumbs, and pour over a cup 
of sweet cream. Bake to a light brown. — Mrs. F. D. 

Hash. 

One and one-half teacup of boiling water must be poured 
into a saucepan, mix one heaping spoonful floiir with one table- 
spoonful cold water, stir it in and boil three minutes. Then 
add two teaspoonfids salt, half a small tea.spoonful pe2)per, and 
butter size of an egg. 

Aft<;r removing all tough, gristly pieces from the cold cooked 
meat, chop it fine with some boiled potatoes. Put them in the 
dressing, heat through, then serve. It injures meat to cook 
it again, making it liard and unpalatable. Should you have 
any cold gravy left, use it; in that case you will require less 
butter, salt and pejDper. You can serve it with buttered toast 
underneath, or you may set it into the oven to brown on top, 



CAS8A ROLLS — MOCK TERRAPIN. 221 

or drop eggs into a skillet of boiling salt water, and when 
cooked, place on top of hash. — Mrs, «/] 

Cassa Rolls. 

Boil some Irish potatoes until quite done, mash them smooth 
and add an equal quantity of salt meat chopped fine. Mix 
with this several well beaten eggs, one spoonful butter, some 
pepper and salt. 

Bake in little cakes like potato cakes. — Mrs. F. D. 

Ragout Souse. 

Split four feet once, fry with one or two dozen large oysters, 
a light broAvn. Lay them in a stew-pan over the liquor from 
the oysters, or some beef or veal gravy ; add one large spoonful 
butter rolled in flour, one dozen allspice, beaten, one glass red 
wine, one glass walnut catsup, and pepper. 

Stew gently until dinner, skimming off any grease. Garnish 
with hard-boiled eggs. Mace or cloves may be used instead of 
allspice. — 3Irs. S. 

Breakfast Dish. 

Take the remnant of any cold meats, either boiled or roasted. 
Prepare it, as if for chicken salad, in fine shreds. Mix with 
potatoes mashed fine, and add two well-beaten eggs. 

Season with butter, pepper, and other spices if you like. 

Make it into a loaf and bake it brown, or fry it in cakes if 
preferred. — Mrs. J'. F. G. 

Mock Terrapin. 

Mince cold veal very fine, sprinkle with salt and cayenne. 
Mash the yolks of three hard-boiled eggs, three tablespoonfuls 
cooking wine, three tablespoonfuls cream or milk, a little nut- 
meg and a little mixed mustard, a large lump of butter with a 
little flour rubbed in. 

Let all steam five minutes, and serve hot on toast. 

A nice relish for breakfast or lunch. — Miss E. S., La. 



222 bkeakfast dish — pillau. 

Breakfast Dish. 
One pound pork sausage, one tablespoonful pounded crackers, 
two well beaten eggs. Work thoroughly together, and make 
into cakes. These will be rather soft, but dropping each one 
into a plate of pounded or grated cracker will enable you to 
handle them. Put into a hot frying-pan. No lard is to bo 
used, but keep the pan covered while frying. — Miss E. 

Baked Hash. 

Take cold beef or veal, chop the meat very fine, put it in a 
pan with some water; add salt, pepper, butter and bread 
crumbs to taste. Season with a little chopped onion, parsley 
and thyme, all minced fine, half a cup milk or cream with one 
egg beaten. Grate some crumbs over the top, and bake till 
brown.— illfrs. J. H. F. 

Sandwiches. 

Grate one quarter pound cold ham in a bowl, with one table- 
spoonful chopped pickle, one teaspoonful mustard, a little 
black pepper, six dessertspoonfuls butter ; put in a bowl and 
stir quickly until a cream. 

Add the ham and seasoning, mix all together well. Have 
slices of light bread and spread the mixture on each side of each 
slice. 

Cold grated tongue, instead of ham, is very nice spread on the 
inside of biscuit. 

Somdvyiclies. 

Mince ham and tongue together, and spread between buttered 
bread. Add a little French mustard to the mince if liked. — 
Mrs. R. 

PiLLAU. 

Take cold fresh meat, either chicken or veal, and cut it up 
quite small after taking off the outer skin either fat or gristle. 
Mix it well with some cold rice, then stir this in a batter made 



calf's head pudding — ^pig's head pudding. 22<j 

of t.wo eggs well beaten, and about one quart milk. Season 
witli salt, pepper, and butter. 

Bake in a deep dish. — Mrs. A. JB. 

Calf's Head Pudding. 

Skin the head, take out the brains. Thoroughly wash, then 
soak the head one night to extract the blood. Put on in cold 
water and boil five or six hours, or vintil the bones are ready to 
drop out. Pick it very fine, taking all the bones out ; then add 
the liquor in which it was boiled, one tablespoonful butter, four 
eggs well beaten; one small piece of lemon or pickle ; one onion, 
if liked ; pepper and salt 

Lay the brains all over the top and bake. Bread crumbs are 
an improvement. The liquor seasoned makes excellent soup. — 
Mus F. E. 

Liver Pudding. 

Take two hog's heads, clean nicely ; two Kvers, two lights, and 
cut all the good part off half a dozen milts ; half a dozen sweet- 
breads ; half a dozen kidneys, split open. 

Put all together in a tub of salt and water ; let them soak 
all night ; take them out next morning, put them in a kettle 
■with two slices of fat pork. Let all boil until done, then take 
it up and let it cool a little and grind it in a sausage mill, and 
while grinding, skim some of the grease oti' of the kettle and 
pour it into the mill. After it is ground, season with >lack 
pepper, salt, and onions chopped fine, to suit the taste. 

If it is not rich enough, boil more middling or pork and mix 
with the meat ; if stuffed, boil again a few minutes. 

Pig's Head Pudding. 

Boil head and liver until perfectly done, cut up as for ha.sh. 
Put it on again in warm water and season highly with butter. 
pep])er, salt, and a little chopped onion. 

After well seasoned, put in a baking-dish with one egg beaten 



224 POTATO PIK OKUMB PIIO. 

light. Bake two hours, aiul lay over hard-boiled eggs sliced, 
and strips of pastry across the top. 

Calf's Head Pudding can Ije made in tlie same way. — Mrs. 
Col. jS. 

i'oTATO I'lE. 

The remains of cold mutton, either roasted or boiled, cut into 
nice slices, three hard-boiled eggs, also sliced, and two or three 
potatoes, seasoning of pepjier, salt, aiul pounded mace to your 
taste. 

All laid alternately in a baking-dish and filled nearly up 
with any gravy or stock at hand ; cover with a potato crust, full 
two inches thick, and bake until the [)otatoes are a nice brown 
color. If the potatoes are scratched over with a fork, it gives 
them a pretty, rough appearance. To make the crust, boil and 
mash the potatoes with a little butter and milk and a small 
quantity of salt. — Mrs. R. P. 

A Nice Pie. 

One pound steak, three soft crackers rolled, one small piece 
of butter, two tablespoonfuls of water, salt and pepper. Bake 
in a deep pan. — Mrs. Ji. 

Potato Pie. 

A savory potato pie is made thus : A layer of mashed pota- 
toes placed in a ])ie dish and then slices of any cold meat (if 
chicken or veal, slices of tongue or ham may be added), and 
herbs, pepper and salt, sprinkled over to taste. Continue these 
layers alternately till the dish is full ; the potatoes must well 
cover the top, which should have some butter added, and be 
brushed over with the yolk of an egg, and put into the oven till 
done through. A little butter on each layer is needed if the 
meat is not fat, and it should not be too fat. — Mrs. S. 

Crumb Pie. 
Mince any cold meat very finely, season it to taste, and j)ut 
it into a pic dish ; have sorrie finely grated bread crumbs, with a 



HAGGIS SQUAB PIE. 225 

little salt, pepper, and nutmeg ; and pour into the dish any 
gravy that is at hand. Cover over with a thick layer of bread 
crumbs and put small pieces of butter over top. Place in the 
oven till a fine brown. Send to the table hot. — Mrs. W. 

Haggis. 

Cut cold beef in pieces and mix with mashed potatoes ; fill a 
baking-dish and season with butter, pepper, and salt. Bake and 
serve hot. 

Cold Chicken with Vinegar. 

Cut up the chicken in fine pieces and crack the bones. Sea- 
son with salt and pepper ; put it in a deep baking plate with a 
lump of butter, and one tablespoonful vinegar. Cover it with 
hot water. Put a plate over it and stew on a stove or over hot 
embers. Add one heaping teacup chopped celery to the mixture 
before cooking. — Mrs. A. P. 

Devilled Cold Chicken. 
Take the legs and wings of any cold fowl. 
Dress with pepper, salt, mustard, and butter ; then broil. 

GiBLET Pie. 
Made as chicken pie, adding livers of chicken or pigeon, 
which have been boiled in the water left from cooking ; celery 
and sweet herbs. Season with mushroom or walnut catsup. — 
Mrs. T. 

Squab Pie. 

After the squabs are picked and drawn as a large fowl is for 
roasting, wash them and put them in a saucepan with a close 
cover. They should be covered with boiling water and boiled 
slowly till tender, when a little salt and an onion clove should 
be added. Then take them out, drain and dry, and put in each 
squab a teaspoonful of butter, a little pepper, salt, minced parsley 
and thyme. Then put into the cavity of each squab, a hard- 
10* 



226 BEEF CAKES ^BEiiFSTEAK AND POTATOES. 

boiled egg. Lay tliem in a large, round, earthen baking dish, 
three or four inches deep. Strain over them the liqnor in 
wliich they were simmered. Add a tablespoonful of butter and 
a teacup of milk or cream. Sift in two tablespoonfuls of 
cracker crumbs not browned, a tablespoonful of minced parsley 
and thyme, and a little salt. Put in a few slips of pastry. 
Cover with a rich crust and bake. 

The same recipe will answer for robins, except that the eggs 
must be chopped, instead of being placed whole in the cavity of 
the bird.— ifrs. S. T. 

Beef Cakes. 

Chop pieces of roast beef very fine. Mix up grated bread 
crumbs, chopped onions, and parsley ; season with pepper and 
salt, moisten with a little dripping or catsup. 

Cold ham or tongue may be added to improve it. 

Make in broad, flat cakes, and spread a coat of mashed pota 
toes on the top and bottom of each. Lay a piece of butter on 
every cake and put it in an oven to brown. 

Other cold meats may be prepared in the same way for 
a breakfast dish. — 3frs. D. 

Fish and Potatoes. 

Boil salmon or other fish ; mash up boiled Irish potatoes ; 
chop yolks of hard boiled eggs. 

Mix all together with butter ; make very hot, and keep it so 
at table. — Mrs. H. 

Beefsteak and Potatoes. 

Cut up in a stewpan, with cold water, and stew till well 
cooked, the steak you will use ; mash some potatoes with 
creamed butter, pepper and salt. 

Line a baking dish with it and put in the steak, seasoning 
with butter, pepper, and salt. Bake a little while. 



bacon fraise — macaroni. 227 

Bacon Fraise. 
Take a nice piece of middling about six inches square, pare 
off the skin and cut in small square pieces, then fry it. Make 
a batter of three pints flour, five eggs, one handful parsley, 
chopped fine. Beat all light and fry with bacon. Serve 
hot. This will make two dishes. — Mrs. M. D. 

Italian manner of Cooking Macaroni. 

One and a half pound macaroni, parboiled with a little salt, 
and one clove garlic. One pound of beef chopped fine, lean 
and fat stewed with one pint tomatoes. 

Alternate layers of macaroni and the stewed beef with 
grated cheese. Add cayenne pepper, salt, butter, and a little 
wine. 

A thick layer of grated cracker crumbs and cheese on top. 
Serve with a stand of grated Stilton cheese. — Mrs. R. R. 

Macaroni. 

Break into pieces one inch long and put in the dish you 
wish to fill, filling it only one-third full. Wash well and boil 
in a covered stewpan until soft and tender, drain off all the 
water ; cover with this the bottom of a baking dish. Sprinkle 
over pepper and salt, grated cracker, bits of butter and grated 
cheese ; then another layer of macaroni, etc., in the same 
order. When the dish is filled, pour over fresh milk until all 
is barely covered. Sift over pounded cracker and set in the 
oven. If it becomes too brown, sift over more cracker before 
serving. — Mrs. S. T. 

Macaroni. 

Boil one-half pound macaroni in water, with salt, one small 
onion and two blades mace. 

Put in one sweetbread, chopped fine, or the same amount of 
fresh veal, the nice part being taken. 

Boil till tender before taking it up, drain oif the water and 
add one large spoonful butter, one-half pint milk, a quantity of 



228 MACARONI — HOMINY CROQUETTES. 

grated cheese ; one teaspoouful mustard ; two teaspoonfuls black 
pepper, one pint skinned tomatoes, salt to the taste ; one egg, 
beaten up, is a great improvement. 

Butter a deep dish and bake the macaroni a light brown. 
Have it sewed with a small bowl of grated cheese, of the best 
(J .ality, so that each one may add what they like. — 3Irs. M. (7. 

Macaroni. 

Parboil enough macaroni to make a dish ; lay alternate 

layers of macaroni, and grated cheese. Season with salt, 

pepper, and butter; add three eggs, well beaten, and enough 

milk to fill a dish. Sprinkle bread crumbs over top and bake. 

—Mrs. B. A. 

Macaroni. 

To one and one-half pound macaroni, add one pound beef, 
chopped fine. Make a stew of the beef with one quart water, 
one clove of garlic, catsup, tomato, or walnut, to suit the taste, 
one dessertspoonful currant jelly, salt and pepper. 

Boil the macaroni ; put in a j^an a layer of macaroni and a 
layer of cheese, with plenty of butter, using quarter of a pound 
of butter for the dish. 

Then pour the stew over the top, and bake fifteen minutes.— - 

3£iss M. B. B. 

To Boil Hominy. 

Take two quarts of hominy, wash through several waters 
until the water is clear; put it on to boil in a pot half full of 
water, with a plate turned down in the bottom of the pot to 
prevent its burning. Boil for six hours — do not stir it ; when 
done, take otf the vessel and set it aside in a cool jtlact;. When 
it is ready to fry, jjut a little lard in the pan, let it get hot, 
and mash in the hominy ; then add a little salt. Put it in the 
pan and press down ; let it fry till brown, turning it uj)side 
down on the dish. — Mrs. P. W. 

Hominy Cuoquettks. 
To one cup cold boiled hominy, add two teaspoonfuls melted 



FRIED iio^nisnr — sweetbread, mushroom pates. 229 

butter, and stii* it well, adding by degr-ees one cui) milk, till all 
is made in a soft light paste ; adding one well-beaten egg. 

Roll into oval balls with floured hands ; dip in beaten egg; 
then roll in cracker crumbs and fry in hot lard. — Jifrs. M. 

Fried Hominy. 
Warm the boiled hominy ; add a piece of butter, a little salt_ 
half a pint cream, two eggs, and floiir enough to stiffen the ujixt- 
ure. Fry like mashed potatoes. — J//'.s'. E. 

To Boil Ho.miny. 
Soak in hot water the overnight. Next morning wash out 
in two waters and boil thoroughly. A little milk added to the 
W9,ter whitens and seasons it. — 3Irs. W. 

To Stew, Pry, or Broil Mushrooms. 
After you have peeled them, sprinkle with salt and pepper 
and put them in a stewpan with a little water and lump of 
butter. Let tliem boil fast for ten nunutes and stir in a thick- 
ening of Hour and cream. They may be broiled on a gridiron, 
and seasoned with butter. Fry them also in butter. Tiie large 
mushrooms are used for the two latter modes of cooking them. 
—3Irs. C. C. 

Sweetbread and Mushroom Pates. 

Ten sweetbreads, parboiled, skinned and all the fat removed ; 
cut into small ])ieces. Add one even teaspoonful salt, one can of 
French mushrooms. Slice thin, add to juice one teaspoonful 
salt, one teaspoonful pepper, one saltspoonful powdered mace, 
lump of butter size of guinea egg. 

Simmer .slowly twenty minutes. Add sweetbreads dredged 
"with one heaj:)ing spoonful corn starch, well mixed in tin? 
sweetbread. Let it boil up once, stirring to prevent sticking. 
Serve in })ufi' paste shapes, hot. A little chopped par.sley may 
oe added — J/>'S. R. K. 



230 TO STEW MUSHROOMS — FONDEE. 

To Stew Mushrooms. 

One pint mushroom buttons, three ounces fresh butter, pep- 
per and salt to taste, lemon juice, one teaspoonful flour, cieam 
or milk a little nutmeg. 

Pai-e the mushrooms, put them into a basin of water with a 
little lemon juice. Take them from the water, put into a stew- 
pan, with the above ingredients. Cover the pan closely and let 
them stew gently twenty minutes. If the mushrooms are not 
perfectly tender, stew them five minutes longer ; remove every 
particle of butter which may be floating on top, and serve. — 

Mrs. a a 

Broiled Mushrooms. 
Cleanse the large mushrooms by wiping with flannel and a 
little salt. Cut off stalks and peel the tops ; broil them over a 
clear fire, turning them once. Arrange on a hot dish. Put a 
small piece of butter on each mushroom, season with pepper 
and salt; squeeze over them a little lemon juice. Place before 
the fire, and when the butter is melted, serve quickly. — Mrs. 

a c. 

Fondle. 

2 ounces butter. 

4 ounces bread crumbs. 
8 ounces cheese. 
1 cup sweet milk. 

3 eggs. 

Cut the butter and cheese into small pieces and place them iu 
a large bowl with tlie bread ; on this pour scalding milk, after 
which add the yolks well beaten, also a little salt. Mix well 
together, cover and place on the back of the range, stirring 
occasionally, till all is dissolved ; when add the whites beaten to 
a stiff" froth. Place in a buttered j)ie-plate and bake in a quick 
oven for twenty minutes. Serve as soon as taken from the 
stove. Mustard is considered by some an improvement. — Mrs 

II. n. s. 



welsh rarebit fried apples. 231 

Welsh Rakebit. 
Cut up cheese fine and place in a saucepan with a little butter, 
add one or two spoonfuls beer, and boil till the cheese is well 
dissolved. Cut a slice of bread, pour on the cheese ; season 
with peppei", salt, and catsup. — Mrs. S. 

Rice and Egg Pates. 

Mix cold rice with well-beaten eggs, season with pepper, and 
rait. 

Then cook like scrambled egg ; don't let the rice burn. 

Tongue and Prunes. 

<Gret a fresh beef tongue, parboil and skin it. Add one 
pound prunes, one pound raisins, one-quarter pound sugar, 
spices to the taste. 

Let ib stew until perfectly well cooked. 

When nearly done, add one lemon. — Miss M. H. H. 

To Stew Dried Apples, Peaches, Quinces, or Pears. 

Take three pounds of dried fruit ; wash it in lukewarm water, 
throiigh three or four waters, rubbing it hard. Pour on this 
five quarts boiling water ; boil at least three hours. Just be- 
fore taking from the fire, add two teacups nice brown sugar. 
Do not stir, except occasionally, to prevent sticking to the 
bottom. Try to cook the pieces of fruit separate, except the 
apples, which run through a colander and season with nutmeg. 
The other fruits need no seasoning. — Mrs. jS. T. 

Fried Apples. 

Slice apples without peeling ; cut and fry some thin slices of 
breakfast bacon until thoroughly done ; remove the slices from 
the vessel, adding water to the gravy left. Put in apples and 
fry until done, sweetening to taste. — Mrs. G. B. 



232 spiced apples eggs. 

Spiced Apples. 

8 pounds apples pared. 

4 pounds sugar. 

1 quait vinegar. 

1 ounce stick cinnamon. 

■^ ounce cloves. 
Boil the sx.gar, vinegar, and spices together ; put in the apples 
when boiling, and let them remain until tender; then take them 
out and put them in ajar; boil the syrup down, and pour over 
them. 

Stewed Prunes. 

Immediately after breakfast, wash two pounds prunes in 
sevei'al waters, rubbing them in the hands. 

Put in a preserving kettle with one gallon boiling water. 
Simmer three or four hours. Add two teacu])S light brown 
sugar and boil till the syrup is thick. Keep closely covered 
and do not stir, so each prune may be stewed whole. Put in a 
shallow bowl and set to cool. This amount will make two 
dishes. 

Excellent side dish for winter or spring. — Mrs. S. T. 



EGGS. 

Properly cooked, eggs are very wholesome and nutritious diet. 
Always be certain, however, that they ai'e fresh, before attempt- 
ing to make a dish of them. Some persons use Krepp's family 
egg-tester, to ascertain if an egg is sound. Full directions, as to 
the mode of using it, accompany the egg tester ; so it is unneces- 
sax-y to give them here. A simple mode of testing the sound- 
ness of an egg, is to put it in water ; and if fresh it will sink to 
the bottom. 



boiled eggs — egg cups, a breakfast dish. 233 

Boiled Eggs, 
Let the water be boiling when you put the eggs in it, and let 
the eggs boil three minutes after putting them in. — Mrs. S. T. 

Soft-boiled Eggs. 
Put the eggs in a large tin cup or any tin vessel convenient, 
Pour boiling water over them, and let them remain near the 
fire, five minutes. Do not let them boil. Eggs cooked thus 
are slightly jellied throughout. They can be kept hot without 
becoming hard. — Mrs. S. T. 

Scrambled Eggs. 
Beat four eggs very light. Add a teacup milk, thickened 
with a ieaspoonful flour. Have the pan very hot, put in a 
tablespoonfxil butter, pour in the eggs, and scramble quickly. — 
Mrs. E. 

Scrambled Eggs. 
Wash the pan with hot water and soap. Wipe dry. Grease 
with a little lard. Break into this the eggs, adding a lump ot 
butter and a little salt. Stir till done. — Mrs. P 

Eggs for Breakfast. 
Heat in the oven a common white dish, large enough to hold 
the number of eggs to be cooked, allowing plenty of room for 
each. Melt in it a small piece of butter, break the eggs, one 
at a time, carefully in a saucer, and slip them in the hot dish. 
Sprinkle over them pepper and salt, and let them cook four or 
five minutes. It is a great improvement to allow to every two 
eggs a tablespoonful of cream, adding it when the eggs are first 
put in, — Mrs. A. M. D. 

Egg Cups — A Breakfast Dish. 
Boil 3ome eggs perfectly hard. Halve them, take out the 
yolks, which mix smoothly with some finely chopped or ground 
ham or fowl, salt and pepper, and a few spoonfuls melted butter 

20 



234 OMELETTE. 

or salad oil. Cut a piece off the bottom of each white half, to 
make them stand, and fill each with a chopped mixture. Make 
a sauce of sweet cream, boiled within an inner saucepan, and 
pour over the eggs. Decorate the edges of the dish with sprigs 
of curled parsley. — Mrs. A. M. D. 

Omelette. 

Break six eggs in a pan, beat them well together, add 
half a gill of milk, pepper and salt to suit the taste, and a few 
sprigs of parsley chopped fine. Beat all well together. 
Have the cooking-pan hot enough to brown the butter. Put 
in half a tablespoonful of butter. Pour the mixture in the pan 
or skillet to cook. When sufficiently done, roll with a spoon 
and turn into the dish. — Miss E. P. 

Omelette. 

Boil one pint milk in a shallow vessel. 

Beat up four eggs very light ; add salt, pepper, and a little 
flour, making it of the consistency of paste. Put this into the 
boiling milk. Have a pan well buttered, into which turn the 
mixture, and set inside an oven to bake a light brown. Serve 
immediately. — Mrs. tT. J). 

Omelette. 
6 eggs beaten very light. 

2 ounces butter. 

Salt and pepper to the taste. 
Chopped parsley or celery. 
Fry a light browia in a well buttered pan. Some minced 
ham 01 oysters improve the flavor. — Mrs. M. 

Omelette. 
4 eggs beaten separately. 

3 tablespoonfuls cream. 
Salt and pepper to the taste. 

—Mrs. G. W. P 



omelette souffle — german omelette. 235 

Omelette Souffl^. 

Six eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately and a ery light. 
Put on the stove a teacup milk with a piece of butter in it 
the size of a walnut. When the butter is melted, mix in one 
tablespoonful corn starch. Mix this with the yolks, add salt 
to the taste, then stir in slowly the whites. Bake in a buttered 
pudding dish, fifteen minutes, in a quick oven. — Mrs. M. E. 
L. W. 

Mock Omelette. 

Two cups bread crumbs soaked all night in one and one-half 
cup milk. Add, next morning, three eggs, whites lightly 
stirred in ; pepper, one teaspoouful salt. — Mrs. £J. JV. 

^ Ham Omelette. 

1 ounce minced ham. 
A little pepper. 
Eggs beaten very light and fried in lard. 

—MissE. W. 
Cheese Omelette. 
3 eggs beaten to a thick froth. 
^ teacup grated cracker. 
3 tablespoonfuls grated cheese. 
Cook in a frying-pan with butter. 
Some persons add chopped thyme and parsley. — Mrs. I*. 

German Omelette. 

3 eggs (yolks and whites beaten separately). 

Mix thoroughly one-half teacup milk and one teaspoonful of 
flour. Then add it to the yolks (well beaten) together %vith a 
little salt. Pour this mixture into a moderately hot pan, 
greased with butter. When this is nearly done (which will be 
in about five minutes), add the whites, stiffly frothed and slightly 
salted, sjjreading them over the whole surface. Run a knife care- 
fully around the edges, and turn into a heated dish when done. 



286 POACHED EGGS HAM AND EGGS. 

It is an improvement to mix one-third of the frothed whites 
with the yolks before pouring into the pan. — Mrs. M. C. C. 

Poached Eggs. 

Let the eggs be perfectly fresh, and the pan at least twc 
inches deep in boiling water. Break the eggs carefully, just 
over the water or in a spoon, so that they may be slipped into 
tha water with their shape preserved. Take them up in a large 
perforated spoon, cover with fresh melted butter and sprLikle 
with salt — never pepper, as some persons do not use it, and it 
mars the appearance of the dish. — Mrs. S. T. 

Eggs with Toast. {A Spring Dish.) 

Gut bread in squax'es, and toast a light brown. Poach eggs 
nicely, place each one on a piece of toast. Pour melted butter 
over tliem, and serve. — 3Irs. S. T. 

Rumble Eggs. 

Beat up three eggs with two ounces fresh butter or well 
washed salt butter. Add a teaspoonful cream or new milk. 
Put all in a saucepan and stir over the fire five minutes. When 
it rises up, dish it immediately on toast. — Mrs. S. 

Ham and Eggs. 

Slice the ham rather thick. Fry in a hot pan. Before it 
becomes hai'd, take from the pan and lay in a dish over a vessel 
of hot water. 

Let the pan remain on the fire, so as to keep the ham gravy 
hot, that it may cook the eggs nicely when dropped into it. 
Break the eggs carefully, droj) them in whole, and do not let 
them touch each other. Cook a light brown, not allowiny 
the yolks to get hard. Lay an egg on each slice of meat. 
Mrs. S. T. 



HAM AND EGG PUDDING- -STUFFED EGGS. 237 

Ham and Egg Pudding. {A Spring Dish.) 
6 eggs beaten very light. 
A liglit pint of floui'. 
A pint of inilk. 
A small piece of butter. 
Salt and pepper to the taste. 
Sprinkle some slices of boiled ham (both fat and lean) with 
pepper, and lay them across a deep dish that has been greased. 
Then pour the pudding batter over the bacon and bake quickly. 
Mrs. V. P. M. 

Eggs a la Creme. 

Six eggs boiled hard and chopped fine, and stale bread. Put 
in a dish alternate layers of chopped egg and grated bread. 
When the dish is full, pour on one pint boiling milk seasoned 
with salt, pepper, and one tablespoonful butter. Bake a light 
brown. — Miss N. 

Baked Eggs for Dinner. 

Have ready eight or ten hard-boiled eggs, a cup of light 
grated bread crumbs, butter, pepper and salt. Place in a 
buttered pudding dish a layer of sliced eggs, dotted with bits of 
butter, and sprinkled with salt and pepper ; next a layer of 
bread crumbs, and so on to the top, being careful to let the top 
layer be of bread crumbs. — Mrs. A. M. D. 

Egg Pie. 
Take six hard-boiled eggs, slice, season with salt, pepper, and 
butter, bake in a paste, top and bottom. 

Stuffed Eggs. 
Boll six eggs very hard. Peel them, and after having sliced 
a bit off of each end to make them stand well, cut in halves and 
extrj)v;t the yolks. Rub up the yolks with a pinch of pepper 
And salt, melted biitter, bread crumbs, and finely chopped 
celery. Fill in the whites nicely, stand on end in the pan, lay 
bits of butter on each egg and bake. — Mrs. D. P. 



238 VEGETAULKS TO COOK ASPARAGUS. 

VEGETABLES. 

If possible, use vegetables gathered early in the morning, with 
the dew on them. It is even better to gather them late the 
evening before, with the evening dew on them (setting them ir. 
the ice-honse or some cool place), than to gather them after the 
morning sun has grown hot. If you ai-e living in the city, get 
your vegetables from market as early in the morning as possible. 

As soon as gathered or brought from mai-ket, all vegetables 
should be carefully picked over, washed, placed in fresh water, 
and set in a cool place till the cook is ready to put them on for 
dinner. 

Put them on in water neither cold nor boiling hot. Thij slow 
heating that takes place when you put them on in cold water 
deprives them of their flavor, to some extent, whilst too rapid 
heating toughens the vegetable fibre. 

Just before they are thoroughly done and tender, add suffi- 
cient salt to season them. Do not stir them and mutilate them 
with a spoon, but turn them into a colander and di-aiu. Place 
them in a hot dish and put a large tablespoonful of fresh joutter 
over them. 

In cooking dried peas and beans, as well as corn, put up in 
brine, always soak them the overnight. These vege-tables 
should first be parboiled, whether they are to be used for soup 
or for side dishes. 

To Boil Green Peas. 

Early in the morning, either buy the peas from market or 
have them gathered in your garden, while the dew is on them. 
Shell and lay in cold water till half an hour before dinner. Then 
put in boiling water and boil steadily a half hour. Add a little 
salt, just before taking from the fire. Dr.uH, add a heaping 
tablespoonful fresh butter and put in a covered dish. — Mrs. S. T. 

To Cook Asparagus. 
As soon as you get the asparagus from market or your gar- 



TO COOK ASPARAGUS — TO FRY ONIONS. 239 

den, throw into salt and water, after scraping the outer skin 
and tying up in bunches. Put on to boil one hour before din- 
ner. After boiling thirty minutes, drain, cut in pieces half an 
inch long, and put in the saucepan with enough milk to cover 
them. Just before serving, add one tablespoouful fresh butter, 
in which one teaspoonful flour has been rubbed. Season with 
salt and pepper. — Mrs. S. T. 

To Cook Asparagus. 
Wash well, scrape, cut off the tough end, tie up in bunches 
and put in boiling water with a spoonful of salt. Boil thirty 
minutes or till tender. Lay it on slices of toast in a dish, pour 
melted butter over it, and serve hot. — Mrs. P. W. 

To Boil Beets. 
Wash them. Do not break or cut the roots. Leave an inch 
of the tops, so that the color and juice cannot escape. Boil hard 
for two hours. When tender, slice them, sprinkling over them 
sugar, then butter and salt to the taste. Sugar is the greatest 
improvement. — Mrs. S. T. 

To Bake Onions. 
Boil six onions in water, or milk and water with a seasoning 
of pepper and salt. When done enough to mash, take them 
off, mash them with butter, grate bread crumbs over them and 
set them to bake. Or place them whole in the baking dish 
with butter and bread crumbs. 

To Cook Onions. 
Boil till tender, in milk and water. Pour melted butter 
over them, and serve ; or chop up and stew with a little milk, 
butter, and salt. 

To Fry Onions. 

Wash and slice them. Chop fine, put in a frying-pan and 
cover with water. Simmer till the water is dried up, then fry 



240 TO DRESS RAW ONIONS TO STEW CYilLINGS. 

brown, with a large slice of fat pork. Add pepper and salt. — 
Mrs.S. T. 

To Dress Raw Onions. 

Slice and chop fine, and put in weak salt and water till just 
before dinner. Then drain off and dress with half a teacup 
vinegar, two tablespoonfuls pepper vinegar, two tablespooufuls 
made mustard, two tablespoonfuls white sugar, one tablespoon- 
ful salt. 

Lay a large lump of ice on top, and garnish with cixrled par- 
sley ; which, eaten after onions, is said to remove the scent from 
the breath.— Jl/r5. 8. T. 

Radishes. 

As soon as taken from the ground, put in cold water. Tlien 
put red and white radishes alternately in a dish of fanciful de- 
sign, ornamenting with curled parsley, in the centre and around 
the edges.— ifrs. S. T. 

Celery. 

Wash carefully and put in cold water to keep ciisp till din- 
ner. Remove all the green, as nothing is so ornamental as the 
pure white leaves of bleached celery. If the (^nds of the stalks 
have been broken, split and curl them. — Mrs. S. T. 

To Boil Snaps. 
Early in the morning, string round, tender snaps. Throw 
into water and set in a cool place, till an hour before dinner, 
when they must be drained and thrown into a i)ot where the 
bacon is boiling. — Mrs. tS. T. 

To BofL Snaps Without Bacon. 
Prep are as above directed. Boil an hour in hot water, adding 
a little salt, just before they are done. Drain and serve with 
pe})per, fresh butter and a little cream. — Mrs. S. T. 

To Stew Cvmlings {or fSquasJo, as it is sometimes called). 
Peel and boil till tender. Run through a colander. To a pint 



TO FRY CYMLINGS — TO BOIL GREEN CORN. 241 

of pulp, add one half pint rich milk, a heaping tablespoonful 
fresh butter and a little salt. Stew till thick like marmalade. 
Pepper freely, pour over it, if convenient, half teacup cream, 
and serve. — Mrs. S. T. 

To Fry Cymlings. 
Steam or boil the cymlings (unpeeled), till tender. When 
cool, slice and butter them, sprinkle pepper and salt and pour 
over them a spoonful of eggs, lightly . beaten. Sift over it: 
cracker, pounded fine, and fry a light yellow brown. Take from 
the frying pan, prepare the other side the same way. Return 
to the pan and fry it a pale brown. — Mrs. S. T. 

Cymlings Frieb with Bacon. 
, Fry some slices of fat bacon in a pan. Remove the bacon 
when done and keep hot. Fry in the gravy some cymlings that 
have been boiled tender and cut in slices. While frying, mash 
fine with a large spoon, and add pepper and salt. Fry brown, 
and serve with the bacon, if you like. — Mrs. G. B. 

Cymling Fritters, 

After boiling and running through a colander, mix with an 
egg, season with salt, pepper, and butter, make into cakes and 
fry a light brown. 

Cymling Pudding. 

Boil young cymlings, mash and run through a colander. Add 
one teacup of milk, thi-ee eggs, a large lump of butter, pepper 
and salt. 

Put in a buttered deep dish, and bake a light brown. For 
a change, you might line the dish with thin slices of buttered 
bread, pour in the cymling batter and put some pieces of butter 
and grated cracker on top. — Mrs. M. C. G. 

To Boil Green Corn. 
Strip off the outer shucks, leaving only the tliin white ones. 
Cut off the ends. Throw into boiling water. Boil an hour. 



242 CORN PUDDING CORN FRITTICRS. 

Strip off the silk with the sliuck. Cut from the cob while hot. 
Sprinkle over salt, add a tablespoonful fresh butter and serve 
hot.— Mrs. JS. T. 

Corn Pudding. 

1 pint milk. 

3 eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately. 

3 tablespoonfuls melted butter. 

1 dessertspoonful white sugar. 

1 heaping teaspoonful cornstarch or flour. 

1 teaspoonful salt. 

6 ears of corn. 
With a sharp knife, slit each vow of corn in the centre. 
Then shave in thinnest slices. Add the corn to the yolks of the 
eggs, next the butter, cornstarch, sugar, and salt, then the milk, 
gradually, and last of all the whites. Bake in a hot oven. As 
soon as a light brown on top, cover with a buttered paper. 
Grate cracker or bread crumbs over it and serve. — Mrs. /S. T. 

Corn Pudding. 
One dozen large ears corn. Cut off the top of the grain, scrape 
with a knife, so as to get the heart of the grain without the 
husk. Seasou with a teacup of ci-eam, a large tables2)Oouful but- 
ter, salt and pepper to the taste. Bake in a dish. — Mrs. Dr. E. 

Corn Fritters. 

3 dozen ears corn. 

6 eggs, beaten well. 

3 tablespoonfuls flour 

Salt to the taste. 
Grate the com, add to it the flour, and gradually mix witli 
the eggs. Beat all hard together. Drop in oval shapes, three 
inches long, into a pan, in which fry them brown, in equal 
parts of lard and butter. A batter cake-turner is convenient 
for turninir them. — Mrs. J)r. rT. 



CORN FRirrERS — BAKED TOMATOES, 243 

Com Fritters. 
8 large ears of corn, cut three times (not grated). 
2 eggs. 

1 teacup sweet milk (or more, if the corn is not juicy). 

2 teaspoonfuls flour. 
Salt and pepper to taste. 

Make the mixture the consistency of a soft batter, and fry in 
lard or butter. — Mrs. A. TF. 

Corn Fritters for Breakfast. 
Make a batter as you would for fritters, put in pepper, salt, 
lard, or butter, add to a quart of batter, a pint of com, cut from 
the cob, and fry. — Mrs. A. P. 

Baked Tomatoes. 

1 quart peeled and sliced tomatoes (not scalded). 

1 cup sugar. 

1 tablespoonful butter. 

1 dessertspoonful salt. 

1 teaspoonful black pepper. 

1 roll of bread. 
Spread a layer of tomatoes on the bottom of an earthen 
(never a tin) baking dish. Put over it half the sugar, butter, 
pepper and salt, and crumble half the roll over it in small 
bits. ITien spread another layer of tomato, siigar, etc. , ending 
with the remaining half of the roll. Grate cracker or hard 
brown biscuit on top, and serve. — 3frs. S. T. 

Baked Tomatoes. 
Scald and peel the tomatoes, or else peel thin with a sharp 
knife, without scalding. Cut in small pieces, season with a 
little sugar, salt, pepper, and finely minced onion. Grease a 
baking dish and line it with thin slices of light bread buttered. 
Pour the tomatoes in the dish, cru mining up a little light bread 



244 STEWED J-OMATOES ROPA VIGA. 

on them. Spread on top a layer of heavily buttered light 
bread, and bake. — Mrs. M. C. C. 

Stewed Tomatoes. 

Peel and chop tomatoes till you have a quart. Add one tea- 
cup brown sugar, one teacup butter, one teacup bread crumbs. 
On*- tablespoonful salt ; one teaspoonful black pepper. 

Stew till free from lumps and perfectly done. Pour in a 
deep dish, sift powdered crackers over it, and serve. — Mrs. S. T. 

Stewed Tomatoes. 
Scald and peel the tomatoes, chop fine, season with salt, 
pepper, onion, and a little sugar. Put in some pieces of but- 
tered light Vjread , cut up very fine. Add a lump of butter, and 
stew in a saucepan. — Mrs. V. P. M. 

Tomato Omelette. 
Peel and chop fine one quart of tomatoes, add salt and 
l)epper, a little onion minced fine, a half teacup grated bread. 
Beat five eggs to a foam, stir into the tomatoes and turn the 
mixture into a hot pan, greased with butter, stir rapidly till it 
begins to thicken. Let it brown a few minutes on the bottom, 
then fold it half over and serve hot. This dish may be made of 
canned tomatoes, when fresh cannot be obtained. — Mrs. I. G. 

Fried Tomatoes. 
Slice tomatoes one-quarter inch thick. Put them in a skillet 
in which a spoonful of nice lard has been melted. After get- 
ting hot, the skins of the tomatoes may be removed: Sprinkle 
with salt and pepper, take the tomatoes out, thieken the gra\y 
with a teacup cream in which a teaspoonful flour has been 
stirred. Put the tomatoes in a dish and pour the gravy over 
them. Serve hot, — Mrs. C. L. T. 

RoPA ViGA. 
Select fine ripe tomatoes. Pour boiling water over them so 



TOMATO TOAST — LIMA BEANS. 246 

as to remove the skins I'sadily. Put them in a pan of melted 
butter, with some pepper and salt. Shred cold meat or fowl 
over them. Fry sufficiently, and serve hot. — 3£rs. A. D. 

Tomato Toast. 

Put some canned tomatoes in a frying pan with a little 
butter and salt. Cook lightly and pour over slices of toasted 
bread, buttered and softened with cream. — Mrs. Dr. G. 

To dress Raw Tomatoes. 

Slice a plateful large fresh tomatoes. Pour over them a 
dressing made of the yolk of one egg and olive oil, creamed 
smoothly together ; salt and pepper to the taste ; one teaspoon- 
fui prepared mustard, a little vinegar. If you like, you may 
add sugar. — Mrs. R. L. 0. 

To dress Raw Tomatoes. 

Peel and cut in thick slices six large ripe tomatoes which 
have been kept on ice. Put a layer into a salad bowl, sjjrinkle 
with salt, pepper, and powdei-ed sugar. Put in another layer, 
and so on, till all the tomatoes are disposed of. Pour over the 
top a teacup of weak vinegar. Cover the top with ice, and set 
in the refrigerator ten minutes before serving. — Mrs. S. T. 

Lima Beans. 

Shell and throw into cold water. Put in boiling water an 
hour before dinner ; add some salt ; when tender, drain off the 
water and add a tablespoonful fresh butter. Beans are seldom 
cooked enough. — Mrs. S. T. 

lAma Reans. 

Shell and lay in cold water. Boil thoroughly, and then stevr 
a little with butter, pepper, salt, and cream. — Mrs. R. 



246 8uccota8h — to boil irish potatoes. 

Succotash. 
1 pint shelled Lima beans. 
1 quart green corn, cut from the cob. 
1 quart tomatoes, prepared and seasoned as for baking. 
Boil the corn and beans together till done, then drain off the 
•water and pour in a cup of milk, a tablespoonful of butter, and 
salt to the taste. Let it boil up, and then pour in the tomatoes. 
Let all simmer an hour. Baked or stewed dishes should have 
cracker or brown biscuit grated on top, before sending to tho 
table.— Mrs. S. T. 

To Fry Cucumbers. 

Peel, cut lengthwise in thick slices and lay in water till just 

before dinner. Wipe dry, sprinkle with pepper and salt, dip 

in beaten egg, sift over pounded cracker and fry with the cover 

on till light brown. Prepare exactly as egg-plant. — Mrs. 8. T. 

To Dress Cucumbers Raw. 
Gather early in the morning, peel, lay in cold water till just 
before dinner. Then drain, slice as thin as possible into ice 
water, which drain and then fill a dish with alternate layers of 
sliced cucumber and thinly sliced white onion, sprinkled with 
salt and pepper. Pour a cup of weak vinegar over it and lay 
a lump of ice on top. — Mrs. S. T. 

Okra. 

Boil young okra till tender, in salt and water. Drain, add 
half a teacup of cream, and a heaping tablespoonful butter. Let 
it boil up, turn it out in a dish, sprinkle salt and pepper over 
it and serve hot. 

To Boil Irish Potatoes. 

Old potatoes must be nicely peeled and dropped in boiling 
water, covered with a lid and boiled hard half an hour. Then 
drain off the water and set by the fire. This makes them 
mealy. — Mrs. S. T. 



creamed potatoes potato nasii. 247 

Creamed Potatoes. 
Peel and boil white mealy potatoes, till perfectly done. Take 
out one at a time from the saucepan, which must be left on the 
fire. AVith a large spoon, mash perfectly fine ; add salt, a 
heaping tablespoonful butter and a teacup rich milk. Stir 
rapidly ten or fifteen minutes and send hot to the table. It ia 
much lighter when well creamed and beaten. — Mrs. S. T. 

Potato Snow. 
Peel and boil in a saucepan, six large mealy white potatoes. 
Add a little salt to the water. Take them out one by one, 
leaving the saucepan on the tire. Rub through a sieve into a 
deep dish, letting it fall in a mound. Do not touch with a 
spoon or the hand. Have a sauce-boat of melted butter to 
serve with it at table. — Mrs. S. T. 

Irish Potato Chips. 
Shave the raw potatoes with a cabbage cutter. Drop the 
pieces, one at a time, into boiling lard, and fry a rich brown. 
Sprinkle a little salt over them. — Mrs. H. L. O. 

To Fry Sliced Potatoes. 
Peel and slice thin. Dry well in a cloth. Fry in lard, stir- 
ring till crisp. Take up and lay on a sieve to drain. Sprinkle 
a little salt over them. — Mrs. R. 

Potato Cakes. 
Mash potatoes, just boiled. Add salt, pepper, butter, and 
cream, make into cakes, and fry brown on both sides. — Mrs. P. 

W. 

Potato Pudding. 

May be made by putting potatoes prepared exactly as above 
directed, in a pudding dish, and baking. — Mrs. S. T. 

Potato Hash. 
Cut cold boiled potatoes in slices. Put in a pan with boiling 



248 TO BOIL SWEET POTATOES TO STEW EGG-PLANTS, 

water, adding pepper, salt, and butter. Stew till thick, and 
serve. — ]\Irs. Dr. G. 

To Boil Sweet Potatoes. 
Boil large, smooth, potatoes till quite done. Pee) and slice 
lengthwise. Pour melted butter over them. Some ])ersons like 
a dressing of pepper, salt, butter, and cream. Others ])refer 
butter, sifted sugar, and grated nutmeg. 

To Fry Sweet Potatoes. 
Parboil and cut in thick slices, sjjrinkling over them pepper, 
salt, and sugar. Fry with a slice of fat pork. Take from the 
pan, sift over them pounded cracker, and serve. — 3Irs. S. T. 

To Cook Inferior Sweet Potatoes. 
Boil till nearly done. Cut in thick slices; put a layer in the 
bottom of a baking dish. Put pepper, salt, sugar, bits of but- 
ter, and a teaspoonful vinegar on this layer, and so on till the 
dish is filled, leaving a layer of seasoning for the top. Pour 
over it a teacup rich milk. Put a tin plate on top and bake a 
few minutes. Put grated cracker, on top. — 3Irs. S. T. 

To Dress Yams. 
Steam them till done, peel and slice them. Put in a buttered 
baking-dish a layer of yam, on which put sugar and some lumps 
of butter. Fill up the dish in this way, and when full, pour 
over it milk or cream, and bake brown. — 3Irs. Dr. P. G. 

To Stew Egg-plants. 

Put them on whole in a plenty of water, and let them simmer 
till tender. Then take off the skin and divide them. Mash 
them well in a deep dish, adding a large spoonful butter and 
some giated bread crumbs. Grate bread crumbs on top, and 
brown it. 

Purplf egg-plants are best. — Mrs. M. 



TO FRY EGG-PLANT — TO FRY PARSNIPS. 249 

To Fey Egg-plant. 

Cut the egg-plant in thick slices, carefully paring each piece. 
Throw it in salt and water, and let it remain there several 
hours. Take from the water, drain and wipe. Then butter 
the slices of egg-j)lant, dip in beaten egg, then in grated cracker, 
and fry a light brown. Pepper, grate more cracker over them, 
and serve. — Mrs. S. T. 

Egg-plant Pudding. 

Quarter the egg-plant and lay it in salt and water the over- 
night, to extract the bitterness. The next day, parboil, peel 
and chop fine, and add bread crumbs (one teacup to a pint of 
egg-plant), eggs (two to a pint of egg-plant), salt, pepper, and 
butter to taste ; enough milk to make a good batter. 

Bake in an earthen dish tw^enty minutes. — Mrs. R. L. 0. 

To Bake Egg-plant. 
Parboil the egg-plant. Take out the meat and mix it with 
butter, pepper, salt, and bread crumbs. Fill the hulls with this 
mixture and bake a dark brown. Cucumbers may be prepared 
by the same recipe. 

Burr Artichokes. 
Strip off the coarse outer leaves, cut the stalk, and lay several 
hours in cold water. Then put in boiling water, with their 
leaves downward. Keep covered with a plate. Boil steadily 
two or three hours. Serve with butter, pepper, salt, mustard, 
and vinegar. — Mrs. M. 

To Stew Parsnips. 
Peel and slice parsnips. Boil them in a covered vessel with 
slices of nice pork, until done, adding salt and pejjper to taste. 
—Mrs. G.B. 

To Fry Parsnips. 
Peel and parboil the parsnips. Slice lengthwise, and fry with 
fat pork, sprinkling over them salt, pepper, and sugai. Grate 



250 TO COOK PAK8NIPS — TO FRY SALSIFi'. 

bread crumbs over it and serve. Salsify may be cooked the 
same way. — Mrs. S. T. 

To Cook Parsnips. 
Boil the parsnips till thoroughly done. Serve with salt, pep- 
per, butter, and cream ; or mash the parsnips, mix with an egg 
batter, and season as before. 

To Cook Salsify. 
Wash, trim, scrape the roots and cut them up fine. Boil till 
tender, mash and season with pepper, salt, bread crumbs, but- 
ter, and milk. Put in a dish and bake brown. — Mrs. A. P. 

To Stew Salsify, 
Scrape and throw at once in water to prevent from turning 
dark. Boil till tender in a closely covered vessel. Drain off 
the water and cut the salsify in pieces half an inch long. 
Throw in a saucepan with 

1 teacup vinegar. 
1 teacup water. 
1 tablespoonful sugar. 
1 tablespoonful butter. 
Salt and pepper to taste. 
Just before serving, add the yolk of an egg, beaten up and 
mixed with a little water. The seasoning above given is for 
one quart salsify. — Mrs. S. T. 

Another Way to Stew Salsify. 
Prepare the salsify exactly as in the foregoing recipe. Boil 
till tender, drain and cut in pieces, half an inch long, and then 
stew in milk. Just before serving, add a tablespoonful of but- 
ter, rolled in a teaspoonful flour. Let it boil up once. Pepper 
8Jid salt it, grate cracker over it and serve. — Mrs. S. T. 

To Fry Salsify. 
Prepare as for stewing. When perfectly tender, run through 
a colander. Add grated cracker, two eggs, well beaten, ont 



TO BOIL ABB AGE WITH BACON — WARM SLAW. 251 

tablespoonful vinegar, one tablespoonful butter, one teaspoon- 
ful salt, one teaspoonful sugar, a little pepper. Make into oval 
cakes, roll in grated cracker, and fry a light brown. — Mrs. S. T. 

To Boil Cabbage with Bacon. 
Quarter a head of hard white cabbage, examine for insects, 
lay in salt and water several hours. An hour before dinner, 
drain and put in a pot in which bacon has been boiling — a pod 
of red pepper boiled with it will make it more wholesome and 
improve the flavor of both bacon and cabbage. — Mrs. 8. T. 

Cabbage Boiled without Bacon. 

Prepare exactly as directed in the foregoing recipe. 

Boil an hour in a large pot of boiling water. Drain, chop 
fine, add a tablespoonful butter, the same of cream, the same of 
pepper- vinegar, and salt and pepper to your taste. — Mrs. S. T, 

Cabbage Pudding. 

Boil nice, hard, white cabbage with good bacon. 

When thoroughly done, chop fine and add a large lump ol 
butter, one teacup rich milk, three eggs beaten light, two tea- 
spoonfuls mixed mustard ; pepper and salt to the taste. 

Pour in a buttered deep dish ; put on top dvisfced pepper, 
bits of fresh butter, and grated cracker or stale bread. 

Bake a light brown. — Mrs. M. C. G. 

Cabbage Pudding. 
Boil the cabbage till tender, chop fine and add four eggs, well 
beaten, one pound bread crumbs, one teacup melted butter, 
milk enough to make it as thick as mush, salt and pepper to the 
taste. Bake in a dish till the eggs and milk are cooked. — Mrs, 
McD. 

Warm Slaw. 

Cut the cabbage very fine and sprinkle over it a tablespoon- 
ful flour. Put a piece of butter, the size of an egg, in the oven 



252 WARM SLAW — SPINACH. 

to melt. Salt and pepper the cabbage and pvit it in the oven 
with the butter. Mix half a teacup of cream with the same 
quantity of vinegar, pour it over the cabbage and heat thorougli- 
\j.—Mrs. S. G. 

Warm Slaw. 
Cut the cabbage (hard red is best) as for cold slaw. Put in 
a saucepan one-quarter pound butter, two gills water, three 
gills vinegar, one teaspoonful salt, and a little cayenne pepper. If 
you like, add a garlic, minced fine. When this mixture has 
come to a boil, pour it boiling hot over the cabbage, and cover it 
five or ten minutes, when it will be ready for use. 

Warm Slaw. 

Wash the cabbage, exit fine and put on the fii-e with enough 
water to keep it from burning. 

When sufficiently tender, have ready a dressing made of vine- 
gar, pepper, salt, mustard, a spoonful of butter rolled in flour, 
and beaten eggs, all thoroughly mixed. Stir this quickly in the 
cabbage and let it boil up. — Mrs. Col. W. 

Fried Cabbage, 
Reserve some cabbage from dinner. Set it away till next 
morning. Chop fine, season with pepper and salt, and fry brown 
with a slice of fat bacon. 

Cauliflower. 
Remove the outside leaves. Cut in four parts, tie them to- 
gether, put in boiling water and let them simmer till the stalk 
is thoroughly tender, keeping it covered with water, and remov- 
ing the scum. Boil two hours, drain well and serve with melt- 
ed butter. You may cook broccoli by the same recipe, except 
that you cut it in two pieces instead of four. — Mrs. R. 

Spinach. 
Pick and soafe several hours in cold water. Drain and shake 



TUENIP SALAD KESIPEE FOR CUKTN KON-FEEL PEES. 253 

each bunch. Throw in boiling water and boil till tender. Take 
up with a perforated skimmer. Put in a saucepan with a heap- 
ing tablespoonful butter ; pepper and salt to taste. Stir in three 
hard-boiled eggs, chopped up. Let it simmer, stirring frequent- 
ly. Put in a deej) dish and cover with nicely poached eggs, 
buttered, peppered, and salted. Sea-kale may be prepared by 
the same recipe. — Mrs. S. T. 

Turnip Salad. 
Pick early in the morning. Wash one peck and put in cold 
water. Have ready a pot of boiling water in which a piece of 
bacon has boiled several hours, and the amount of water become 
much reduced. Take out the bacon, put in the salad, put the 
bacon back on top of the salad, and boil till very tender. Dip 
from the pot with a perforated skimmer, lay in a deep dish, 
skim the fat from the liquor and pour over the salad. Cover 
with nicely poached eggs. Cover and send to the table hot. 
Any other kind of salad might be cooked by this recipe. — 
Mrs. S. T. 

Turnips. 

Boil and mash through a colander. Season with a cup cream, 
spoonful butter, pepper, and salt, and stew quite dry. Then 
you may bake them. — Mrs. Col. TV. 

To Stew Turnips. 
Peel five or six turnips and put on to boil, adding a little 
salt to the water. When thoroughly done, mash fine through a 
colander, season with a teacup of cream, or milk, a tablespoonful 
buttei', red and black pepper, and a little more salt, if needed. 
Stew two or three miiiutes. Cabbage prepared the same way is 
very nice. — 3Ii-s. C. M. A. 

ReSIPEE for CUKIN KON-FEEL PeES. 

G-ether your pees 'bout sun-down. The folrin day, 'boijt 
leven o'clock, gowge out your pees with your thum nale, like 



254 CORNFIELD OR BLAOK EYE PEAS — CORN PUT IN BRINE. 

gowgin out a man's eye-ball at a kote house. Reuse your pees, 
parbile them, theu fry 'em with som several slices uv streekl 
middlin, incouragin uv the gravy to seep out and intermarry 
with your pees. When modritly brown, but not scorcht, empty 
intoo a dish. Mash 'em gently with a spune, mix with raw 
tomarters sprinkled with a little brown shugar and the immortal 
dish ar quite ready. Eat a hepe. Eat mo and mo. It is good 
for your genral helth uv mind and body. It fattens you up, 
makes you sassy, goes tliroo and throo your very soul. But 
why don't you eat ? Eat on. By Jings. Eat. Stoi) I Never, 
■while thar is a pee in the dish. — Jffozis Addums. 

Cornfield or Black Eye Peas. 
Shell early in the morning, throw into water till an hour 
before dinner, when put into boiling water, covering close while 
cooking. Add a little salt, just before taking from the tire. 
Drain and serve with a large spoonful fresh butter, or put in a 
pan with a slice of fat meat, and simmer a few minutes. Dried 
peas must be soaked overnight, and cooked twice as long as 
fresh.— Jfrs. S. T. 

To Boil Dried Peas. 

Soak in boiUug water the night before. Then next day par- 
boil and drain. Put in fresli water with a piece of middling or 
ham, and boil till tender. — Mrs. Col. W. 

To Boil Dried Lima, or other Beans. 
Soak overnight. Next morning, soak in fresh water till two 
hours before dinner, when boil steadily in a covered saucepan 
two hours. Drain and add a large spoonful fresh butter, and a 
little salt. — Mrs. S. T. 

Corn Put up in Brine. 
Late as possible in the fall prepare tender roasting (;ars for 
winter use. Strip off the outer shuck, leaving the inne)-, silky 
ones next to the grain. Have ready a nice clean wooden firkin 



PICKLES AND CATSUl'S. 255 

or tub, properly scalded and sunned. Sprinkle salt over the 
bottom. Pack closely with corn. Wash a large flat roct and 
lay on the top, when nearly full. Pour strong brine over the 
corn, covering it well. The day before using, strip off the 
shuck and silk, place in a bucket of cold water i renewing the 
water once, or twice), and let it stand till ready to use it. Twi 
ears soaked thus, and shaved into a pot of soup with other veg 
etableSj will impart a delicious flavor. — 3Irs. S. T. 



PICKLES AND CATSUPS. 

For pickles and catsups, use the best cider vinegar, it being 
not only more wholesome than other kinds of vinegar, but 
the only sort that will keep pickles or catsup for any length of 
time. 

In making catsup, or in scalding pickles in vinegar, if a brass 
kettle is used, it must be scoured with sand and ashes, washed 
and wiped diy, and then scoured with vinegar and salt. By 
• ttendingto these directions, the brass kettle maybe safely used 
—though the pickles or catsup must be poured from it the 
instant it is taken from the fire, or they will canker. 

In making pickles, it is a good rule to allow two pounds of 
sugar to each gallon of vinegar for sour pickle, though a larger 
proportion must be allowed for sweet pickle. 

Vinegar for pickling should be spiced and set to sun from 
spring to autumn. Never put pickle in a jar that has been 
used for butter or lard. Examine often to see if the pickle is 
well covered with vinegar, and if any of it has turned soft, 
remove it. Keep it in a dry, airy closet, and be careful not to 
let it freeze. Pickle is generally considered best when from six 
months to a year- old. Some housekeepers use the same vine- 
gar (with a slight addition) from year to year, by draining the 
pickle as they take it out of the jar. 



256 pioki.e vinegae — vinegar fok pickles. 

Pickle Vinegar. 
2 gallons cider vinegar. 
4 ounces white pepper, beaten. 
4 ounces whole allspice. 

4 ounces mustard-seed. 

2 ounces ground mustard. 
2 ounces of mace. 
2 ounces of turmeric. 
2 ounces of white ginger. 
2 ounces of garlic. 
2 ounces of horseradish. 
2 gills of celery-seed. 
2 sliced lemons. 

5 pounds of sugar. 

Tliis ought to be prepared several months before using, and 
always kept on hand ready for use. — Mrs. IS. T. 

JPicJde Vineya/r. 

2 gallons vinegar. 

1 pint black mustard-seed. 
4 ounces ginger. 

3 ounces allsjdce. 
1 ounce cloves. 

4 ounces whole black pepper. 

1 ounce celery-seed. 

3 pounds brown sugar. 

2 handfuls scraped horseradish. 
1 handful garlic. 

3 sliced lemons. 

Make in May, and sun all summer. — Mrs. D. It, 

Vinegar for Pickles. 

2 gallons vinegar. 

1 cup bruised ginger. 

1 cup black mustard-seed. 



YELLOW PICKLE VINEGAB. 257 

1 cup garlic. 

■J- cup black pepper. 

1 cup celery-seed. 
•^ cup of mace. 

^ cup of cloves. 
^ cup of turmeric. 

2 pounds brown sugar. 
1 pod red pepper. 

1 handful horseradish. — Mrs. P. W. 

Cucumbers (sliced), snaps, gherkins, muskmelons, cabbage, 
onions, or anything to be put into the spiced vinegar, must be 
previously boiled tender in strong vinegar and salt — well 
pressed out — and then put into the pickle vinegar, will soon be 
ready for use. — Mrs. e/i «/] C. 

Yellow Pickle Vinegar. 

2 gallons of pure cider vinegar. 
1 pint black mustard-seed. 

1 pint white mustard-seed. 

2 ounces ground mustard. 
4 ounces white ginger. 

3 ounces pepper. 
3 ounces allspice. 
1 ounce mace. 

1 ounce cloves. 

2 ounces turmeric. 

1 large handful horseradish. 

1 handful garlic. 

1 spoonful salt. 

1 gill celery-seed. 

6 lemons. 

6 pounds sugar. 

The liquid should be mixed iu the spring, and set in the sun 

—Mrs. T. M. a 

22 



258 mgredients to one gallon green pickle. 

Ingredients to One Gallon Green Pickle. 

3 pounds of sugar. 

^ ounce of mace, full weight, and beaten. 

•^ ounce of black pepper, full weight, and beaten. 

1 ounce ginger, light weight, and beaten. 

■^ ounce allspice, light weight. 

^ ounce cloves, light weight, 

^ tablespoonful salt, light weight. 

•^ ounce celery-seed, light weight. 

2^ ounces cinnamon, beaten. — J\frs. Dr. P. C 

Preparing Pickles. 

Vegetables for pickle should be kept in cold and strong brine 
till they turn yellow : then put vine-leaves in the bottom of the 
kettle, then a layer of vegetables and a layer of leaves till full. 
Pour on them, boiling salt and water and let them boil until 
a bright green. Take them, while hot, and place in weak vine- 
gar for a whole week. Then add them to the spiced vinegar. 
Afterwards rub on them a little turmeric. Prepare the spiced 
vinegar in May, and expose to the sun every day for some time. 
-~Mrs. R. 

Yellow Pickle. 
2 gallons vinegar. 

2 pounds sugar. 
1 ounce turmeri 

3 ounces allspice 
1 ounce cloves. 

1 ounce mace. 

1 pint mustard-seed. 

2 tablespoonfuls celery-seed. 

Pound all together and stir into the hot cider vinegar for 
several minutes. Prepare your vegetables by quartering the 
cabbage and scalding them in brine; cover them and leave until 



YELLOW PICKLE. 259 

cold ; squeeze dry and hang iii the sun ; when bleached, throw 
in plain vinegar, then into the spiced vinegar. — Mrs. P. 

Yellow Pickle. 
2^ gallons vinegar. 
7 pounds sugar. 
1 pound white mustard-seed. 
1 bottle mustard. 

1 pound white ginger. 
■^ pound white pepper. 
■^ pound turmeric. 

2 ounces nutmeg. 
2 ounces allspice. 
2 ounces cloves. 

2 ounces celery-seed. 
^Pound them all before putting in the vinegar, add one pound 
scraped horseradish, half-dozen lemons sliced. 

Scald two dozen onions, sprinkle them with salt, and let them 
stand a day ; drain oJEF the water and wash well with the vine- 
gar. Add them to your spiced vinegar. Cut your cabbage 
and scald them in strong salt water till you can run a straw 
through them ; drain them for a day and put into plain vine- 
gar for two weeks ; let them drain again a day or two before 
putting into the prepared vinegar. Put two tablespoonfuls 
turmeric in the plain vinegar to turn the cabbage yellow. — 3Irs. 

J. T.A. 

Yellow Pickle. 

One peck cabbage cut up. Lay in a jar, sprinkling with 
Bait; leave it twenty-four hours; squeeze out and put in a 
kettle with ',\alf a dozen onions chopped, cover with viivegar, 
add one ounce turmeric, and boil one hour. Then add : 

2 pounds brown sugar. 

tV ounce niaoe. 

\ ounce alls})ice. 

•J- ounce cloves. 



260 YELLOW PICKLE YELLOW PICKLED CABBAGE. 

4 tablespoonfuls mixed mustard. 

1 teacup black peppercorn. 

4r tablespoonfuls ground ginger, 

2 tablespoonfuls celery-seed. 
Boil till clear. — Mrs. S. B. 

Yellow JPicMe. 
2 gallons cider vinegar. 
4 ounces beaten white pepper. 
4 ounces whole allspice. 
4 ounces white mustard-seed. 
4 ounces black mustard-seed. 
2 ounces mace. 
2 ounces turmeric. 
2 ounces white ginger. 

2 ounces ground mustard. 

3 ounces garlic. 

3 ounces horseradish. 
2 gills celery-seed. 

4 sliced lemons. 

5 pounds brown sugar. 

Should be prepared months before using. Cabbage to be 
pickled should be boiled or scalded in salt and water until the 
leaves can be turned back so as to sprinkle salt between them ; 
then must be dried in the sun. Shake all the salt out when 
dry, and soak in plain vinegar, with a little turmeric sprinkled 
on each layer of cabbage. After ten days, drain them and put 
in the sjiiced vinegar. — Jifrs. S. T. 

Yellow Pickled Cabbaoe. 
1 ounce turmeric. 
1 gill black pepper. 
1 gill celery-seed. 
A. few cloves. 
A few pieces of ginger. 



A QUICK WAT TO MAKE YELLOW PICKLE. 261 

4 tablespoonfuls made mustard. 

I" ounce mace. 

2 pounds sugar. 

1 tablespoonful allspice. 
Take one peck of quartered cabbage ; slice them and put a 
layer of cabbage and one of salt ; let it remain over night. In 
the morning squeeze them and put on the fire with four chopped 
onions, and cover with vinegar ; boil for an hour, then add the 
spices mentioned above, and let it boil an hour longer ; when 
cold it is ready for use. — Mrs. W. H. M. 

A QUICK WAY TO MAKE YeLLOW PiCKLE. 

Two gallons chopped cabbage, sprinkle one handful salt 
through it, and let stand over night. Squeeze it out dry and 
put into a kettle. Add one ounce of celery-seed, one ounce 
of turmeric, one quarter-pound of mustard-seed, (black and 
white mixed), five pounds brown sugar, with vinegar enough to 
cover the whole well. 

Boil until the cabbage is tender. Put it in stone jars and 
keep it closely covered. It is fit for use the day after it is 
made. — Mrs. J. C. W. 

Yellow Pickle. 
2 ounces black mustard-seed. 
2 ounces white mustard-seed. 
2 ounces celery-seed. 
1 ounce coriander. 
1 ounce white pepper. 

1 ounce green ginger. 

2 oimces turmeric. 

1 pound brown sugar. 

Put these in one and one-half gallons best cider vinegar, and 

set in the sun. This can be prepared during the winter, if you 

choose. Quarter your cabbages (small heads about the size of 

a large apple are best), and put in a tub. Make a strong brine, 



262 CABBAGE PICKLE FOR PEESENT USE. 

boil and pour over while hot. Let them stand twenty-four hours 
and then repeat. On the third day spread them on a board 
or table, salt them slightly, and let them stand in the hot siin four 
days, taking care that no dew shall fall on them. Put in ajar, 
and pour on your prepared vinegar boiling hot. This pickle 
will not be ready for the table till it has softened and absorbed 
the vinegar. You can judge of this by your taste. To make 
quick pickle by this recipe, you simply salt your cabbage for 
one night, pouring off in the morning the water drawn out by 
the salt. Then put in the kettle with the spices and vinegar, 
and boil until a straw will go through. — Mrs. e/i H. D. 

Cabbage Pickle for Present Use. 
Boil the cabbage in salt and water till tender ; lay them on 
dishes, drain or press them in a towel. 

Boil together two gallons strong vinegar. 

1 pint white mustard-seed. 

4 oxxnces ginger. 

3 ounces black pepper. 

3 ounces allspice. 

1 ounce mace. 

1 ounce cloves. 

1 oimce turmeric. 

1 large handful horseradish. 

1 large handful garlic. 

1 ounce celery-seed. 

2 pounds brown sugar. 

Pour it over the cabbage boiling hot. If you have no garlic, 
use one pint onions chopped fine. — Mrs. II. 

Cut Cabbage Pickle. 
Fill the jar with cut cabbage. To every gallon of cabbage put 
one handful horseradish. 

3 tablespoonfuls black pepper. 
\ tablesj)oonful red pepper. 



CUOPPED CABBAGE PICKLE. ?;63 

3 tablespoonfuls coriander -seed. 

3 tablespoonfuls celery-seed. 
2 tablespoonfuls mace. 

2 tablespoonfuls allspice. 

1 dozen cloves. 

•jV teacup made mustard. 

4 tablespoonfuls wliite mustard-seed. 
1 pound sugar. 

4 or 5 sliced onions. 
Salt your cabbage first as for slaw, and let it stand two or 
Ihree hours. Put in a porcelain kettle and cover with weak 
vinegar ; put turmeric enough to color, boil it till tender, then 
drain off the weak vinegar, and cover it with strong cider vine- 
gar, and mix the spices well through it ; add three or more 
tablespoonfuls turmeric, and boil the whole fifteen minutes very 
hard. When cold, it is ready for use. — Mrs. S. M. 

Chopped Cabbage Pickle. 
Cut the cabbage as for slaw, pour over it enough boiling 
brine to cover it. Chop and scald a few onions in the same 
way, cover both, and leave twenty-four hours ; then squeeze in 
a cloth until free from brine. If it should taste very salt, soak 
in clear water for a few hours and squeeze again. Loosen and 
mix the cabbage and onions thoroughly. To one-half gallon 
cabbage put : 

1 small cut onion. 

1 poiind brown sugar. 

1 small box mustard. 

^ pound white mustard-seed, 

1 small cup grated horseradish. 

\ ounce mace. 

1 tablespoonful ground black pepper. 

2 ounces celery-seed. 
1 ounce turmeric. 

Chopped celery and nastiu'tium.s, if they can be had. Mix 



iiu4 GKEEN PICKLE. 

all, and cover with cold vinegar. If necessary, add moie vine- 
gar after it has stood awhile. — Mrs. G. N. 

Green Pickle. 
Put the pickles in a strong brine, strong enough to bear an 
egg. Thi-ee weeks is long enough for them to remain in brine, 
if you wisli to make your pickle early in the fall ; but they will 
keep several months, indeed all the winter, by having them 
always well covered with the biine. 

When ready to make your pickle, drain off every drop of 
brine, and pour boiling water over the pickles. Repeat this for 
three mornings in succession. Then pour off this last water, 
and soak the pickles two days in cold water, changing the 
water each morning. Next, pouring off this water, scald the 
pickles three mornings in weak vinegar, weakening the vinegar 
by putting two quarts of water to one of vinegar. This is the 
time for greening the pickles, by putting in the jar or keg a 
layer of pickle, then sprinkling iu a little powdered alum, and 
so on, till the vessel is filled ; then pouring on the weakened 
vinegar. Only use the alum the first morning ; but the other 
mornings pour off the vinegar and pour on a fre.sh quantity. 
All this is necessary, if you wish to have pickle perfectly free 
from the brine, and in a condition to keep. Fill your jars with 
the pickle thus prepared, and pour over them the best of vin- 
egar, after seasoning it and letting it boil a few minutes. Sea- 
Boning to one gallon vinegar : 

3 pounds brown sugar. 

1 tablespoonful allspice. 

1 tablespoonful of cinnamon. 

1 tablespoonful of ginger. 

1 tablespoonful of black pepper, all pounded. 

20 drops oil of cloves, or 3 oixuces of cloves. 

1 ounce celery-seed. 

1 pod red pepper. 

2 tablespoonfuls grated horseradish. — Mrs. C. 



GKEEN PICKLES. 265 

Crreen PicMes. 
Put the pickle in strong brine for two days ; then boil the 
brine and pour it over them hot. Repeat this twice. Then 
pour over them boiling vinegar and water mixed, three succes- 
sive times, at intervals of two days. For a three-gallon jar 
take: 

1 teacup black pepper. 

1 teacup allspice. 
•^ teacup of ginger. 
^ teacup of mace. 

•^ teacup of cloves, all beaten, but not fine. 

2 heads of cabbage chopped tine. 
2 teacups horseradish. 

8 onions chopped fine. 
1 quart mustard seed. 
^ Take half of the beaten spices and mix with the latter ingre- 
dients, also three cups of brown sugar ; stuff the mangoes with 
this. Add the rest to the vinegar with five pounds of sugar, 
and pour on the pickle hot. 

This makes very superior pickle. — Miss S. S. V. 

Green Pickle [3 gallons^. 

2 ounces mace. 

^ pound ginger, scalded and sliced. 

2 ounces cloves. 

2 ounces cinnamon. 

2 ounces long pepper. 

2 ounces black pepper. 

2 ounces allspice. 

1 ounce nutmeg. 

^ pound horseradish scraped, sliced, but not dried. 

1 ounce turmeric. 

4 ounces black mustard-seed. 

1 ounce coriander-seed. 

23 



266 CUCUMBERS OE OTHER SMALL PICKLES. 

2 ounces garlic, or onion. 

2 pounds brown sugar. 
Prepare the cucumbers as follows : gather cucuiuber.s, snaps, 
etc., and juit tliem in a large stone jar, pouring over them a 
strong brine which has been boiled and skimmed — hot, but not 
boiling ; cover with an old table-cloth to keep the steam in. 
Let them stand about a week, then take and soak twenty-four 
hours in cold water. Next {)ut them in a large kettle lined 
with grape leaves, and till, covering with weak vinegar. Sprin- 
kle in a dessertspoonful of powdered alum, and cover with grape 
leaves, setting on tlie stove until a beautiful bright green. Put 
in a jar and pour this vinegar over them and let them stand 
until next day ; then dry the pickles with a cloth, and have 
ready the jar, putting in a layer of the pickles with a layer of 
the seasoning before mentioned ; fill with strong cider vinegar. 
Tie up closely, and keep in a warm, dry place. 

The spices must be bruised or beaten tolerately tine before 
putting with pickles ; and a little salad oil added is an impi'ove- 
ment— Mrs. P. McG. 

Cucumbers or other small Pickles. 

2 gallons vinegar. 

3 tablespoonfuls ginger. 

2 tablesi)Oonfuls celery-seed. 

1 tablespoonful cinnamon. 

2 tablespoonfuls turmeric. 

1 tablespoonful horseradish. 

1 tablespoonful garlic. 

2 tablespoonfuls pepper. 
1 teaspoonful cloves. 

1 teaspoonfid of mace. 

1 teaspoonful of allspice ; all the sj)ices must be pulveiized. 

Add the garlic and horseradish when cold. Add two pounds 
sugar, which must be boiled in (he vinegar and poured over the 
Bpice.s. One teaspoonful red pc^pper will improve it. Boil the 



PICKLED CUCUMBERS CUCUMBER PICKLE. 267 

vegetables in plain vinegar before putting in the spiced vine- 
gar. 

Gherkins and snaps are made in the same way as cucumbors- 

—Mrs. aS'. 

Pickled Cucumbers. 

^ gallon vinegar. 

3 pounds brown sugar. 

2 tablespoon fuls cloves. 

2 tablespoonfuls allspice. 

2 tablespoonfuls mustard. 

2 tablespoonfuls celery. 

1 tablespoonful white ginger. 

1 tablespoonful cinnamon. 

1 tablespoonful black pepper. 

2 pods green pepper. 
^^ 4 lemons sliced. 

A little horseradish. 

12 onions, and as many cucumbers as the vinegar will weli 
cover. 

Boil all together until the cucumbers are tender, and they 
will be i-eady for use in a week or so. To green (he fruit : line 
your brass kettle with grape-leaves, and then pour weak vine- 
gar on the cui'.umbers, cover with leaves, and boil a little while. 

—Mrs. E. L 

Cucumber Pickle. 

2 gallons good vinegar. 
1 cup bruised gingei". 
1 cup mustard-seed. 

1 cui^ gallic. 

2 onions chopped fine. 
\ teacup black j^epper. 
1 teacup celery -seed. 

\ ounce mace. 
■J ounce cloves. 
■^ ounce turmeric. 



268 BOILED CUCUMBKK PICKLE PICKLED CUCUMBEK8. 

1 pod red pepper. 

1 handful horseradish. 

3 pounds brown sugar. 
After greening the cucumbers, put them in plain vinegar for 
a few days. Then boil the spices in one gallon of the vinegar, 
and pour it over the pickle boiling hot. Do this twice ; it will 
be ready for usp in a week. — Mrs. P. W. 

Boiled Cucumber Pickle. 

Take fresh cucumbers (size for eating), put them in biine for 
rt few days; take them out, and put them in vinegar to soak for 
two days. Then wipe them dry, cut them in pieces one inch 
thick. Make a seasoning of a mixture of allspice, cloves, mace, 
nutmeg, and whole black pepper, about two ounces to seventy- 
five cucumbers. Add celery-seed, and onion chopped fine. 

Take a large stone jar, put a layer of cucumber and a layer 
of the mixture, with plenty of brown sugar (about eight pounds 
to a large jar). In this way fill the jar, then cover it witl 
strong vinegar: tie the mouth up securely, put the jar in a pot 
of cold water, and boil until the cucumber is tender, and they 
will be ready for use in a few days. — Jifrs. O. C. McP, 

Pickled Cucumbers. 

Put them in a wooden or stone vessel, pour over strong salt 
and wiiter boiling hot, put a weight on to keep them under the 
pickle. After thi-ee days, pour it off, boil, and turn it over 
again r let stand three days again ; then take them out and let 
them l^e one night in plain cold water; next day put them over 
the fire, but do not let them boil, allowing one tablespoonful 
alum to one gallon vinegar ; mace, cinnamon, peppercorns, 
white and black mustard-seed and grated horseradish, one 
tablespoonful each to every gallon vinegar, and one teaspoon- 
ful turmeric, and two and one-half pounds sugar. Fold a 
doubld piece of linen, and a soft, thick brown paper, and tie the 



8WERT (iUCUMBER PICKLE — GREEN TOMATO PICKLE. 269 

jars tight ; throw iu the vinegar and keep in a drj- place. A 
bladder and linen cloth are nice to he over the pots. — 3Irs. G. P. 

Sweet Cucumber Pickle. 

Slice cucumbers and soak in brine a week ; then soak in salt 
water until the salt is extracted sufficiently. Boil in strong 
alum water half an hour, then in ginger tea half an hour. 
Make a syrup of one quart good vinegar, one pint water, three 
pounds sugar, to four pounds cucumbers; season with mace, 
cinnamon, cloves, and celery-seed. Put in the cucumbers and 
boil till the syrup is thick enough. Add some sliced ginger. — ■ 
Mrs. S. M. 

Cucumber Sweet Pickle. 

First lay the cucumbers in salt and water for one week or 
ten days ; next cut them in slices quarter of an inch thick. Then 
soak o\xt the salt and boil them in alum water half an hour, and 
afterwards in ginger tea for one hour. Then make a syrup of 
one pint water, one quart vinegar, three pounds sugar to every 
four pounds cucumbers. Flavor with cloves, mace, and cinna- 
mon. Boil all together until the syrup is sufficiently thickened. 

—Mrs. A. C. 

To Pickle Ripe Cucumbers. 

Take them yellow, but not too ripe, scrape the seeds well 
out ; lay them in salt and water twenty-four hours, then make 
syrup same as for peaches ; in a week scald tho, vinegar again. 

—Mrs. C. 

Green Tomato Pickle. 

Slice green tomatoes and onions ; sprinkle each layer with 
salt ; let them stand until next day, then press all the juice out, 
and season very highly with red and black pejjper, celery, 
mxistard seed, a little turmeric, and some sugar ; cover with 
vinegar, and cook until tender. — Mrs. M. D. 

Green Tomato Pickle. 
Slice and chop green tomatoes, until you have one gallon 



270 GBEEN TOMATO PICKT.E — GREEN TOMATO SAUCE. 

Chop one dozen large onions. Mix and sprinkle four large 
spoonfuls of salt upon them, let it stand one night ; next day 
drain off all the water, and have one quart strong vinegar, two 
pounds sugar, spices and pepper to your taste. Put in the 
vinegar, and put with the tomatoes in a porcelain k'^ttle ; boil 
half an hour. Place in the jar for keeping and cover closely. 
Three or four days afterwards, boil again for a few minutes and 
put away for use. — Mrs. L. P. 

Green Tomato PicMe. 

One peck tomatoes sliced. 
One dozen onions. 

Sprinkle with salt, and lay by twenty -four hours ; then drain 
them. 

3 pounds sugar to one gallon vinegar. 

1-^ ounces ground pepper. 

1 ounce whole cloves. 

1 ounce mustard-seed. 

1 ounce allspice. 

1 cup mustard, mixed. 
Put all in a kettle, with vinegar enough to cover ; boil till 
tender. — Mrs. S. B. 

To MAKE Gkeen Tomato Sauce. 

16 pounds tomatoes. 

7 pints good cider vinegar. 

4 pounds brown sugar. 

\ pint celery -seed. 

\ pint mvistard-seed. 

1^ pints onions, cut fine. 

1 teacup ground mustard. 
\ ounce mace. 

2 ounces cinnamon. 
1 ounce allspice. 



GREEN TOMATO SAUCE. 271 

^ ounce cloves. 

^ pound black pepper. 

Put all of the spices in the vinegar, and boil one hour. Then 

put in the tomatoes, which you must slice the night before, and 

put one layer of salt and one of tomatoes. Drain the water off, 

and boil the tomatoes in the spiced vinegar till done. — Mrs.Dr. S. 

Green Tomato Sauce. 
Peel and slice the tomatoes. To two gallons add : 
5 tablespoonfuls ground mustard. 
2^ tablespoonfuls ground black pepper. 
2 tablespoonfuls ground allspice. 

2 tables2)oonfuls ground cloves. 

3 gills white mustard-seed. 
1 gill celery-seed. 

1 gill salt. 

^ 1 pint onions, chopped fine. 

2 quarts brown sugar. 
2 quarts vinegar. 

Beat all the spices, except the mustard-seed, and boil togethei 
until thick as marmalade. — Mrs. S. T. 

Green Tomato Sauce. 

2 gallons tomatoes, sliced. 

3 tablespoonfuls salt. 

3 gills of mustard-seed, whole. 
2^ tablespoonfuls pepper. 
1^ tablespoonfuls allspice. 
3 tablespoonfuls mustard, beaten smooth. 
1 teaspoonful cloves. 
1 teaspoonful cinnamon. 
1 teaspoonful celery-seed. 
1 pint onions, chopped fine. 
1 quart sugar. 
2^ quarts vinegar. 
Mix thoroughly and boil till done. — Mrs. P. McQ. 



272 swei<:t tomato pickle — ripe tomato pickle. 

Sweet Tomato Pickle. 

Peel small tomatoes with a sharp knife ; scald in strong 
ginger tea until clear. To four pounds tomatoes, two poundfj 
sugar, not quite one quart vinegar ; cinnamon, mace, nutmeg, 
to taste. 

Scald the tomatoes and pour on boiling hot. — Mrs. J. H. F. 

Sweet Tomato PickLe. 

Boil green tomatoes in strong ginger tea for ten minutes. 
Then take out, and to every two pounds add one quart of vine- 
gar, one pound sugar, cinnamon, cloves and mace to your taste. 
—Mrs. P. 

Sweet Tomato Pickle. 

Slice one gallon green tomatoes, and put a handful salt to 
each layer of tomatoes. Let them stand twelve hours, then 
drain ofi" the liquor, and add to them two green peppers, and 
from two to four onions, sliced ; take two quarts vinegar, half a 
pint molasses, two tablespoonfuls mustard, one teaspoonful all- 
spice, and one of cloves ; heat it until it begins to boil, then 
put in tomatoes, onions, and pepjiers ; let them boil ten minutes : 
pour into a stone jar, and seal tight. In a fortnight they will 
be ready for use. — Mrs. Dr. P. G. 

To make Piccalilli. 

To one-half bushel nicely chopped tomatoes, which must be 
squeezed dry, add two dozen onions, chopped fine, one dozen 
green peppers, chopped, one box ground mustard, one large root 
horseradish, nearly one pint salt, four tablespoonfuls ground 
cloves, four tablespoonfuls allspice. 

Mix thoroughly in a stone jar and cover with vinegar, making 
a hole in the centre to let the vinegar to the bottom. — Mrs. 13. 

Ripe Tomato Pickle. 
Puncture the tomato with a thorn or straw. Put a layer of 
tomatoes, with onions cut up. Sprinkle salt on them, then put 



TOMAIK) MARMALADE OR SAUCE FOR MEATS. 273 

another layer of tomatoes and onions, with salt sprinkled over 
them. When you have filled the jar or vessel with tomatoes, 
let them remain about a week, then lay them in dishes to drain. 
Give each tomato a gentle squeeze, to get the salt water out. 
Put them in a jar and cover with strong vinegar. Boil a small 
quantity of vinegar with pepper, horseradish, and such other 
spices as you like, and pour it over the tomatoes. To two gal- 
lons of tomatoes, use a box of mustard dissolved in the vine- 
gar. — Mrs. C. O. 

Tomato Marmalade or Sauce for Meats. 

Scald and peel fully ripe tomatoes, then cut them up, if lai-ge. 
To twelve pounds add six pounds sugar, one tablespoonful beaten 
cloves, one tablespoonfid spice and one tablespoonful cinnamon. 

Boil all in a kettle until the syrup becomes the thickness of 
molasses. Then add one quart of strong vinegar and boil foi 
ten minutes. Pnt away in quart jars — Jifrs. Mc G. 

Hyden Salad. 

1 gallon cabbage. 

•^ gallon gi'een tomatoes. 

^ gallon onions, — all chopped fine. 

4 tablespoonfuls salt. 

2 tablespoonfuls ginger. 
2 tablespoonfuls cloves. 

1 tablespoonful cinnamon. 

2 tablespoonfuls mustard. 
\^ pounds brown sugar. 
Plenty of celery-seed. 

^ gallon strong vinegar. 
Boil the whole one-half hour. — Mrs. H. I). 

Hyden Salad. 
Cut one gallon cabbage as for slaw, one-half gallon green torn a 
toes. Cut up one pint green pepper, taking out the seed care- 



274 HYDEN SALAD. 

fully and cutting up the pod (do not use the seed), one quart 
onions cut up, and the water pressed from them and thrown 
away. 

Mix all these, and sprinkle through them 2 tablespoonfuls 
saU, and let them stand over night. Then take : 

2 pounds sugar. 

3 large spoonfuls ginger. 

3 large spoonfuls turmeric. 

3 spoonfuls celery-seed. 

3 spoonfuls ground mustard. 

2 spoonfuls allspice. 

2 spoonfvils cinnamon. 

1 spoonful cloves. 

1 spoonful mace. 
Beat all fine, and mix with tlie salad ; pour over the whole 
three quarts good vinegar, and simmer for twenty minutes. 
Ready for use very soon, and very good. — Mrs. C M. A. 

Hyden Salad. 

1 gallon cabbage, chopped fine. 
■^ gallon green tomatoes, chopped fine. 
^ pint green pepper, chopped fine. 
1 pint onions, chopped fine. 
Sprinkle salt, and let it stand overnight ; next morning, potu 
boiling water over, and squeeze dry. Take : 
2 ounces ginger. 

4 tablespoonfuls gi-ound mustard. 
1 ounce cinnamon. 

1 ounce cloves. 

2 ounces turmeric. 

1 ounce celery-seed. 

2 pounds sugar. 
2 spoonfuls salt. 

•^ gallon vinegar. Boil ten minutes. — Mrs. M, 



HYDEN SALAD. 275 

Hyden Salad. 
Cut up fine, 1 gallon cabbage. 
^ gallon green tomatoes. 
\ pint green pepper. 

1 quart onions minced, the juice thrown away. 
Add to all these : 

4 tablespoonfuls gi'ound mustard. 
2 tablespoonfuls ginger. 
1 tablespoonful cinnamon. 

1 tablespoonful cloves. 

2 ounces of turmeric. 

1 ounce celer}'-seed. 

2 pounds sugar. 

2 tablespoonfuls salt. 
Mix all well together, add one-half gallon good vinegar, and 
boil slo.vly twenty minutes. Take the seed out of the green 
pepper. Make late in the summer. — Mrs. R. 

Syden Salad. 

1 gallon of finely chopped cabbage. 

\^ gallon green tomatoes. 

1 pint green peppers — ^ pint will do. 

1 quart onions. 

^ pint horseradish. 

1 pound sugar. 
■^ gallon vinegar. 

4 tablespoonfuls ground mustard. 

2 tablespoonfuls ginger. 
1 tablespoonful cloves. 

1 tablespoonful cinnamon. 

1 tablespoonful celery-seed, 

2 spoonfuls salt. 

Beat the spice well, mix all together well, and boil fifteen 
minutes. 



276 OIL MANGOES TO MAKE OIL MANGOES. 

Black peppers can be used instead of the green, one table- 
spoonful ground. — Mrs. E. C. G. 

Oil Mangoes. 

1 pound race ginger, well soaked, beaten and d/ied. 

1 pound horseradish. 

1 pound white mustard-seed. 

1 pound black mustard- seed. 

2 ounces ground mustard. 
2 ounces black pepper. 

2 ounces turmeric. 
2 ounces cloves. 
•^ ounce mace. 

1 ounce celery-seed. 

2 pounds sugar. 

Beat the ingredients together in a mortar, and mix the mxis- 
tard with as much olive oil as will make a paste. Then after 
the mangoes have been in brine two weeks, and gi'eened as you 
would cucumbers, stuff* them ; if any filling is left, sprinkle 
between the layers in the jar. Pour over as much boiling vin 
egar as will cover them. — Mrs. T. C. 

To Make Oil Mangoes. 
Put the mangoes in strong brine for five days. Wash them, 
and remove the seed. 
StuflBng for the same. 

1^ pound white mustard-seed. 
\ pound pounded ginger. 
^ pound black pepper, pounded. 
4 tablespoonfuls celery-seed. 
3 ounces mace. 
Mix these ingredients with as little oil as possible, stuff" the 
mangoes with it, adding scraped horseradish and one blade of 
gallic. Pour cold vinegar over them, and one pound salt. Press 



GKEEN MANGOES — STAFFING FOR SIXTY MANCJOES. 277 

the mangoes tinder the vinegar, and watch them closely. It is 
well to scaW the vinegar in the spring. — lifrs. H. T. 

To Green Mangoes. 
After taking them from the brine, lay them in a kettle with 
grape-vine leaves between each layer of mangoes ; a little alum 
sprinkled on each layer. Let them simmer all day, changing 
the leaves if necessary. If nob green enough, put them on the 
second day. — Mrs, E. 

Mangoes. 

To a three-gallon jar of mangoes prepared for tlie vinegar, 
take : 

1 teacup black pepper. 

1 ounce allspice. 
\ ounce ginger. 
^ ounce mace. 

\ ounce cloves, beat well, but not fine. 
Take one head of raw cabbage. 
8 onions. 

2 teacups of horseradish. 
1 quart of mustard-seed. 

Take half the beaten spices, and mix with the lattei 
ingredients, also three cups of brown svigar ; besides, put one 
teaspoonful brown sugar in each mango before you pxit in the 
stuffing. 

It takes five pounds of sugar for a three-gallon jar. The bal- 
ance of the sugar mix with the spice and vinegar enoug, '. to 
cover the pickle. — Mrs. H. C. 

Stuffing for Sixty Mangoes. 
1 pound black mustard-seed. 

1 pound white mustard-seed, 

2 pounds chopped onion. 
1 ounce mace. 



278 PEAOH MANGOES. 

1 ounce nutmeg. 

2 handfuls black pepper. 

1 ounce turmeric, well mixed with cold water. 

Pound the mace, nutmeg, and pepper, 

1 cup sweet oil. 

^ pound English mustard. 

4 pounds brown sugar. 
Mix all these well together, throwing in little bits of mango 
or cucumbers. 

Peach Mangoes. 
Pour boiling salt water over the peaches — let them stand two 
days ; take them out and slit them on one side, and put them 
in turmeric vinegar for two days. Extract the seed, stuff and 
sew them up, and put in the prepared vinegar. Prepare the 
stuffing as follows : chop some of the peaches from the turmeric 
vinegar, add a large quantity of mustard-seed, celery-seed, a 
good deal of brown sugar — one pound to two and a half pounds 
peaches ; ground ginger, cinnamon, cloves, pepper, turmeric, and 
any other spices, if you like. Onions chopped fine. Vinegar 
to be seasoned the same way ; and any of the stuffing left may 
be put in the vinegar. — 3Irs. C. C. 

Peach Mangoes. 

Remove the stones from large white Heath peaches by cut- 
ting in halves. Stuff them with white mustard-seed, a little 
pounded mace, turmei'ic, and celery-seed. Sew them uj), and 
drop them in with the yellow cabbage. — Mrs. II. T. 

Peach Mangoes. 

Pour boiling salt water over the peaches, let them stand two 
days ; then take them out, slit them on the side, and put them 
in turmeric vinegar for two days or longer. Take them out, 
extract the seed, stuff them, sew them up, and put into the 
px-epared a inegai*. To prepare the stuffing : 

Chop up some of he peaches, add a large quantity of white 



PEACH MANGOES PEPPER MANGOES. 27S 

mustard-seed, a good deal of brown sugar, some ground ginger, 
cinnamon, cloves, pepper, turmeric, celery-seed, also a great deal 
of chopped onion. Vinegar, seasoned with same ingredients. 
Quantity of spices can be regulated by your taste. — Jliss S. 

I*each Mangoes. 
Take large plum peaches, sufficient quantity to fill the jar. 
Peel nicely, and take out the stones. Have ready the stuffing 
in proportion to the peaches. Mince fine some soft peaches, 
preserved orange peel, preserved ginger, coi-iander-seed, celery- 
seed, a small quantity mace, cinnamon, candied strawberries, if 
you have them, and pickled cherries. Sew the peaches up, after 
stuffing them, and fill the jar. Then to every pound coff"ee 
sugar add one-half pint vinegar, allowing the above quantity 
to two pounds fruit. Make a syrup of the sugar and vinegar, 
and pour on the peaches, boiling-hot Repeat this for three 
mornings ; tlie fourth morning put them all on together, and boil 
a short time ; add a few spices, cinnamon, and ginger to the 
syrup when you make it. They will be ready for use in a few 
weeks, — 3Irs. R. 

Pepper Mangoes. 
With a sharp knife take the cap out of the pod, then scrape 
out the seed. Lay the pods in weak salt and water for one 
hour. 

Take hard cabbage, chop \\ em very fine, and to every quart of 
cabbage, add 

1 tablespoonful salt. 

1 tablespoonful pulverized black pepper. 

2 tablespoonfuls white mustard- seed. 
1 teaspoonful ground mustard. 

Mix all this well together, drain the peppers, and stuff them 
with the mixture, and replace the cap. 

Pack them closeiy in a stone jar, with the small end down- 
wards. Do Ihis until ihe jar is filled ; then pour on tliem strong 



280 TO PICKLE WALNVT6 — WALNUT PICKLE. 

cold vinegar. They are ready for use in three weeks. You 
can use spices and sugar, if preferred. — 3frs. W. A. S. 

To Pickle Walnuts. 
After the walnuts have been in brine six weeks, scrape and 
wipe them with a coarse towel. Put them in plain vinegar, and 
let them remain for a week or two. Drain them well — place in 
a jar, and pour over them vinegar spiced and prepared as for yel- 
low pickles, omitting the turmeric and lemons, and using black 
pepper instead of white. — Mrs. S. T. 

Walnut Pickle. 
The walnuts must be quite green and tender. First soak 
them in fresh water, then rub off with a coarse towel. The wal- 
nuts must be kept in brine a week, and then soaked in clear 
water for several hours. Boil them in vinegar a little while — 
this time put water in the vinegar ; then put them in good 
strong vinegar, a portion of which must be boiled and poured 
over them four successive mornings. Season with cinnamon, 
mace, cloves, and add two pounds sugar to one gallon vinegar, 
or in proportion to quantity of pickle. — Mrs. C. C. 

Walnut Pickle. 

Gather the nuts about the 10th or 20th of June, when they 
are sufficiently tender to be pierced with a pin ; pour boiling 
salt water on, and let them be covered with it nine days, chang- 
ing it every third day. Put them on dishes to air, until they 
are black ; then soak out the salt, and put them in weak vinegar 
for a day or two ; put into the jar, and pour on hot the follow- 
ing pickled vinegar : 

7 ounces ginger. 

7 ounces of garlic. 

7 ounces of salt. 

7 ounces of horseradish. 

^ ounce red pe])per. 



WAI.mjT PICKLE PICKLED MAKTINA8. 281 

^ ounce of orange peel. 

^ ounce of mace, 

^ ounce of cloves, all boiled in 1 gallon strong vinegar. 

1 ounce black pepper also. — Mrs. tT. H. F. 

Walnut Pickle. 
Put the walnuts in salt water for five or six weeks; then in 
fresh water for twenty-four hours ; boil in weak vinegar and 
water until soft enough to run a straw through. Then rub 
them with a coarse towel ; make a strong liquor of vinegar, 
horseradish, garlic, and mace ; pour on, and leave them till ready 
for use, in two or three weeks. — Mrs. T. 

To Pickle Martinas. 
Take one gallon pot full of martinas. Make a brine strong 
enough to bear an egg ; keep them covered for ten days. Take 
theni out and wash them in cold water, then put them in cold 
vinegar. Let them remain for ten days ; drain them, and put 
them in the jar intended for use. In half a gallon of vinegar 
scald a large handful of horseradish, scraped fine. 
A cupful black pepper. 
1 cupful ginger. 
\ cupful black mustard-seed. 
3 tablespoonfuls of beaten cloves. 
3 onions sliced fine. 
1 pod red pepper. 
3 pounds brown sugar. 
Pour them over the pickle, and fill with cold vinegar. — Mrs. 
S. D. 

Pickled Martinas. 

Put three gallons of martinas in very strong brine, keep 
covered for ten days, then wash them in cold watei", and put 
them in vinegar to stand ten more days ; then drain and put 
them in the jar intended for them. In thrae pints of vinegar, 
scald : 

24 



282 TO PICKLE MARTINAS — CHOW-CHOW PICKLE. 

A large handful of scraped horseradish. 
1 cup allspice. 
^ cup black pepper. 
1 cup of ginger. 
^ cup of black mustard. 
3 large spoonfuls of cloves, all beaten. 
3 onions sliced. 
1 pod red pepper. 
3 pounds brown sugar. 
PoAT it over thb martinas, and fill up with cold vinegar. — 

Mus JS. T. 

To Pickle Martinas. 

Put llrw martinas in a strong brine of salt and water, let 
them remain a week or ten days. Then wash them, and put 
them in cold vinegar, co soak the salt and greenish taste out of 
them. When ready to pickle, lay them out to drain; scald 
the following ingredL-nts in a gallon of vinegar, and pour over 
them in a jar ; if not rull, fill up with cold vinegar, 
1 large hanrtful of sliced horseradish. 

1 teacup of allspice. 

\ cup of black pepper. 

^ cup of mustai'd-seed (black). 

2 tablespoonfuls cloves. 

2 pounds brown sugar. 

3 or four onions, sliced. 

The spices to be beaten, but not too fine. This quantity fills 
a two-gallon jar. — Mrs. J. «7! 31. 

Chow-Chow Pickle. 
\ peck green tomatoes. 
2 large cabbages. 
15 onions. 
25 cucumbers. • 
1 plate horseradish. 
^ pound mustard-seed. 



CHOW-CHOW. 28? 

1 ounce celery- seed. 

2 ounces ground pepper. 
2 ounces turmeric. 

^ ounce cinnamon. 
Cut the onions, tomatoes, cucumbers and cabbage in small 
pieces ; pack them do\vn overnight in salt, lightly ; in the 
morning pour off the brine, and put them to soak in weak vin- 
egar two days; drain again, and mix the spices. Boil half a 
gallon vinegar and three pounds sugar, and pour over them hot. 
Mix two boxes ground seed. — Mrs. li. A. 

Chow-Chow. 

^ peck onions. 
^ peck green tomatoes. 
• 5 dozen cucumbers. 
Slice all very fine, and put in a few M^hole cucumbers, one 
pint small red and green peppers ; sprinkle one pint salt over 
tliem, and let them stand all night ; then add : 
1 ounce mace. 

1 ounce white mustard-seed. 
1 ounce celery-seed. 
1 ounce turmeric. 

1 ounce whole cloves. 

3 tablespoonfuls ground mustard. 

2 pounds brown sugar. 

1 stalk horseradish, grated fine. 
Cover all with one gallon and one pint of strong vinegar, and 
boil thirt}- minutes. — 3fiss E. T. 

Chow- Chow. 
^ peck onions. 
•^ peck green tomatoes. 

3 dozen large cuci;mbers. 

4 large green peppers. 

■^ pint small peppers, red and green. 



284 CHOW-CHOW PICKLE CHOW-CHOW. 

Sprinkle one pint salt on, and let them stand all night ; the 
cucumbers not peeled, but sliced one inch thick, the onions 
also sliced. In the morning drain off the brine, and add to the 
pickles : 

1 ounce mace. 

1 ounce black pepper. 

1 ounce white mustard-seed. 

1 ounce turmeric. 
■^ ounce cloves. 

■^ ounce celery-seed. 

3 tablespoonfuls made mustard. 

2 pounds brown sugar. 
With a little horseradish. 

Cover with vinegar, and boil till tender, a half-hour or more 
When cold, ready for use. — Mrs. C. JV. 

Chow-Chow Pickle. 

1 gallon chopped cabbage. 
4 onions. 

2 pounds brown sugar. 
2 pints strong vinegar. 

2 tablespoonfuls black pepper. 

2 tablespoonfuls of allspice. 

2 tablespoonfuls of celery -seed. 

•^ pint mustard-seed. 

1 tablespoonful ground mustard. 
The cabbage and onions must stand in strong salt and water 
two hours, then place in a bx-ass kettle, with the vinegar and 
spices, and sugar ; boil until syrup is formed. Excellent. — 

Mrs. J. H. F. 

Chow-Chow. 

The recipe is for one gallon pickle ; for more, the quantities 
must be increased, of course. The ingredients consist of: 
\ peck green tomatoes. 
1 large head of cabbage. 



LEESBURG CHOW-CHOW. 285 

6 large onions. 

1 dozen cucumbers. 

■^ pint grated horseradish 

•^ pound white mustard-seed. 

^ ounce celery-seed. 

A few small onions. 

^ teacup ground pepper. 

Turmeric, ground cinnamon. 

A little brown sugar. 
Cut bhe cabbage, onions and cucumbers into small pieces, an il 
pack tliem down in salt one night ; then put in vinegar, poured 
over hot. Do this three mornings. The third morning, mix 
one box ground mustard with one-quarter pint salad oil. To 
be mixed in while warm. — Mrs. 0. JB. 



Leesburg Chow-Chow. 

\ peck green tomatoes. 
2 large heads cabbage. 
15 large white onions. 
25 cucumbers. 
Cut these up, and pack in salt for a night. Drain otf, and 
then soak in vinegar and water for two days. Drain again. 
Mix with this, then : 

1 pint grated horseradish. 
\ pint small white onions. 
■^ pound white mustard-seed. 
1 ounce celery-seed. 
•^ teacup groiind black pepper. 
\i teacup turmeric. 
■^ teacup cinnamon. 
Pour over one and a half gallons boiling hot vinegar. Boil 
this vinegar for three mornings ; the third morning, mix with 
two boxes mustard, three pounds brown sugar, and half-pin< 
sweet oil. — Mm. J. JB. D. 



286 sweet pickle peaches ^pickled peaches. 

Sweet Pickle Peaches. 
Powder cloves, mace, and allspice, and mix well together 
To every pound fruit add one-quarter pound sugar, one gill 
vinegar, one teaspoonful of the mixed spices. Boil all together, 
and when the fruit is done, take from the syrup, and lay on dish- 
es. Let the syrup cook thoroughly. Put the fruit in jars, and 
pour on the syrup. Cover when cool. — 3frs. D. M. 

To Pickle Peaches. 
1 pound peaches. 
^ pound sugar. 
1 pint vinegar. 

Mace, cloves, cinnamon ; boil the ingredients every day, for 
six days, and pour over the peaclies. — Mrs. J^\ D. G-. 

Spiced Peaches. 

Take nine pounds ripe peaches, rub them with a coarse towel, 
and halve them. Put four pounds sugar and one pint good 
vinegar in the kettle with cloves, cinnamon, and mace. When 
tlio syrup is formed, throw in the peaches a few at a time ; 
when clear, take them out and put in more. Boil the syrup 
till quite rich ; pour it over the peaches. 

Cherries can be pickled in the same way. — Mrs. C C. 

Peaches to Pickle. 

Make a syrup with one quart vinegar and three pounds 

sugar ; peel the peaclies and put them in the vinegar, and let 

boil very little. Take out the friiit, and let the vinegar boil 

half an hour, adding cinnamon, cloves, and allspice. — Mrs. 

A.H. 

Pickled Peaches. 

Take peaches pretty ripe, but not mellow ; wipe with flannel as 
smooth as possible ; stick a few cloves in each one. One pound 
sugar to one pint vintigar. Allow three pounds sugar and three 
pints vinegar to one pan peaches. Scahi the vinegar, then put 



PTCKLEO PEACHES CANTALOUPE PICKLE. 287 

on the peaches ; boil till nearly soft, then take out and boil the 
vinegar a little longer, and pour over the fruit. — 3Irs. G-. P. 

Pickled Peaches. 
Put the peaches in strong brine, and let them remain three or 
four days ; take them out, and wipe them dry ; put them in a 
pot with allspice, peppei', ginger, and horseradish ; boil some 
turmeric in your vinegar. Pour it on hot. — 3Iiss JS. T. 

Peach, Pear, Quince and Apple Pickle. 

1 pound fruit. 

\ pound sugar 

\ pint vinegar. 

Dissolve sugar and vinegar together ; put a small quantity of 

fruit ; boil until you can stick a straw through it. Season with 

cinnamon and mace. Rescald the vinegar, and pour over tL" 

fruit for nine mornings. — Mrs. Dr. tT. 

Sweet Pickle. {Honolulu Melon.) 
4 pints vinegar, very clear. 
4 pints sugar 
1 ounce cloves. 
1 ounce cinnamon. 
Put all to boil, then drop in the melons, as much as the \iiiegar 
will cover, and boil fifteen minutes. Put them in jars, aud every 
day, for two or three days, pour off the vinegar, boil it over, and 
pour on the pickles xmtil they seem done. — Mrs. M. TFi T. 

Cantaloupe Pickle. 
Cut up ripe melons into small square pieces, peel and scrape 
out the soft pulp and seeds, soak one night in alum water, aud 
then boil in strong ginger tea. Then to each pound of fruit add 
three-quarters of a pound loaf sugar, mace, cinnamon, and white 
ginger to the taste, and cover with best cider vinegar Boil 
till it can be pierced with a straw, then set aside, and the ne.x:t 



28S CANTALOUPE PICKLE SWEET WATERMELON PICKLE. 

day pour off, and boil the syrup until it thickens a little, and 
return to the fruit boiling-hot. — Mrs. F. F. F. 

Cantaloupe Pickle. 

Pare and cut in small pieces, cover with vinegar ; pour off 
and measure, and to each pint put three-quartei-s of a pound 
hrown sugar • cloves and mace to your taste. 

Boil the syrup, put in the fniit and boil until clear ; then take 
out the fruit, boil a few minutes longer, and pour it on the 
pickles, hot. When cold, it is ready for use. — Mrs. E. I. 

Cantaloupe Fickle. 
Take four or five cantaloupes, quarter, and cover with vinegar ; 
to stand twenty-four tours. Then measure off the vinegar, 
leaving out one quart. To each quart, add three pounds brown 
sugar, cinnamon, cloves, and mace to the taste. Place the 
spiced vinegar over the fire, and when it has boiled awhile, drop 
in the fruit, cooking it thirty or forty minutes. — Mrs. H. P. 

Ripe Muskmelon Pickles. 

Take hard melons, after they are sufficiently ripe to be well 
flavored. Sline them lengthwise, scrape out the seed, and lay 
the melon in salt over night ; wash and wipe dry, put them in 
alum water one hour, wash and wipe them again; cut them in 
slices and pack in jars. Pour over them a syi'up of vinegar 
seasoned with cinnamon and cloves ; put three or four pounds of 
sugar to one gallon vinegar, and boil until it is right thick. — 
Mrs. A. C. 

Sweet Watermelon Pickle. 

Trim the rinds nicely, being careful to cut off the hard coat- 
ing with the outer green. Weigh ten pounds rind and throw 
it in a kettle, and cover Avith soft water ; let this boil gently foi 
half an hour, take it off and lay it on dishes to drain. Next 
morning put one quart vinegar, three pounds brown sugar, one 



WATERMELON PICKLE I'lOKLED PLUMS. 289 

ounce cinnamon, one ounce mace, the white of one egg well 
beaten and thrown on top of the liquid (to clear it as you would 
jelly), three teaspoonfuls turmeric, all together in a kettle, and 
boil for a few minutes ; skim off what rises as scum with the 
egg. Throw in the rind, and boil for twenty minutes. The 
peel of two fresh lemons will give a nice flavor, though not at 
all necessary. — Mrs. L. W. C. 

Watermelon Pickle. 
4 pounds watermelon rind. 
2 pounds sugar. 
1 pint vinegar. 

Mace, cloves, cinnamon, and ginger to the taste. 
Peel the rind and cut in pieces ; boil in ginger tea till clear, 
then throw in cold water overnight. Next morning make a 
syrup and preserve the rind ; just before taking off the fire, 
])our in the vinegar. — 3Irs, A. T. 

Watermelon Rind Pickle. 
Ten pounds melon, boil in water until tender. Drain the 
water off. Make a syrup of two pounds sugai-, one quart 
vinegar, one-half ounce cloves, one ounce cinnamon ; boil all 
this and pour over rind boiling-hot ; di-aiu off the syrup and let 
it come to a boil; then pour it over the melons. — Mrs. C. C. 

McP. 

Pickle of Watermelon Rind. 

Cut in pieces and soak the rind in weak salt and water for 
twenty- four hours — of course having first peeled off the out- 
side. To seven pounds rind put three pounds sugar ; scald 
well in ginger tea, and make a syrup of the sugar and vinegar, 
enough to cover the rind. Season the syrup with mace and 
ginger, and boil the rind in it till tender. A delicious pickle. — 

Mrs. Dr. P. C. 

Pickled Plums. 

7 pounds sweet blue plums. 
4 pounds brown sugai\ 



290 TO riClCLK DAMSONS GERMAN PICKLE. 

2 ounces stick ciunamon. 

2 ounces wliole cloA'es. 

1 quart viuegar. 
Put a layer of {)lums ami spice alternately ; scald the viuegar 
and sugar together ; pour it ou the plums ; repeat for two or 
three days, tlie last time scalding plums and syrup togethei-. — 
Mrs. W. 

To Pickle Damsons. 

Take seven pounds damsons, wash and wipe them diy, three 
pounds sugar, one-lialf ounce cinnamon, half-ounce mace, half- 
omice cloves, half-ouuci; allspice. 

With one quart strong vuiegar and the sugar make a syrup, 
and j)our it over the fruit boiling-hot. Let it stand twenty- 
four hours ; repeat the boiling next day, and let it remain twen- 
ty-four houi-s longer ; then put all on the fire together and cook 
till the fruit is done. — JMiss I). 1). 

Sweet Pickle. 

Boil in three quarts of vinegar four or five ]iounds sugar, one 
ounce cinnamon, one ounce allspice, one ounce mace, one-half 
ounce cloves, and pour all over fourteen jjounds damsons or 
peeled peaches. — Mrs. O. J>. 

Gek.man Pickle. 

^ ])0und white sugar. 

1 pound damsons. 

1 pint vinegar. 

1 teaspoonful cloves. 

A few sticks of cinnamon, 
^lake a ^yrup with viuegar, sugar and spices, then drop in a 
few of the damsons at a time. Scald them until the skins crack, 
laving each quantity in a dish till all are done. Pill tlie jars 
three-f jurtlis full, and pour in tiie syrup. — ^[rs. U. L. P. 



COMPOSITION PICKLE — RAGOIJt PICKLE. 291 

Damson Pickle. 

7 i^ounds fruit. 

1 ouuce cinnamon. 

1 ounce cloves. 

1 ounce mace. 

1 ounce celery-seed. 

3 pounds brown sugar. 
Spices to be beaten fine ; put them in the jar, sprinkling the 
spice through in layers. Boil one quart vinegar with the sugar, 
and pour over the fruit and spices. Repeat the scalding of the 
vinegar for four days. — Mrs. C JV. 

Composition Pickle. 

1 gallon chopped cabbage, 
^ gallon green tomatoes, sliced, 
•^ gallon cucumbers, 
1 quart onions, 
all finely chopped. Let them stew several hours, then <l»'aiv 
olf the water. Add : 

4 tablespoonfuls ground mustard. 
2 tablespoonfuls ginger. 

1 ounce cloves. 

2 ounces turmeric. 

2 ounces celery seed. 

2 pounds brown sugar. 

2 spoonfuls salt. 

■^ gallon strong vinegar ; boil twenty minutes. — 3Irs. C. G, 

Ragout Pickle. 

2 gallons chopped cabbage. 

2 gallons green or ripe tomatoes. 
5 tablespoons of mustard, ground. 

3 gills mustard-seed. 

2 tablespoonfuls allspice. 



292 KENTUCKV PICKLE FEENCH PICKLS. 

2 teaspoonfuls cloves. 
1 gill salt. 

1 piut chopped onions. 

1 pound brown sugar. 

Some chopped celery, or celery-seed. 

3 quarts good cider vinegar. 

Boil all well togethei-, and it is ready for use. — 3fiss J:^. T. 

Kentucky Pickle. 

Take green tomatoes, cabbage, and onions, about equal quan- 
tities — grind them in a sausage machine. Salt, and put the 
mixture in a bag, and let it hang all night or until the juice has 
run from it — then season witli red and black pepper, mustard- 
seed, celery -seed, cloves, sugar. 

Pack in jars, and cover with strong cold vinegar. — Mrs. M. 1). 

French Pickles. 
I peck green tomatoes. 
\ peck onions. 

\ pound white mustard-seed. 
1 ounce allspice. 
1 ounce cloves. 

1 bottle mixed mustard. 

2 tablespooufuls black jjcjjper. 
1 tablespoouful cayenne. 

1 ounce celery-seed". 
1 pound brown sugar. 
Slice the tomatoes and lay them in salt for twelve hours ; pour 
off the brine. 

Slice the onions, and put a layer of onions, tomatoes, spices 
and sugar into a bell-metal kettle, until the ingredients are 
all in. Pour in vinegar until well covered, and boil for one 
hour. — Mrs. Dr. /S'. 

French Pickle. 

1 gallon cabbage. 

•^ gallon green tomatoes. 



SPANISH PICKLE — ONION PICKLE. 293 

1 quart onions, 

6 pods gi-een pepper, without the seed. 

3 tablespoonfuls ground mustard, or seed. 

1 tablesjjoouful gingor. 

1 tablespoonful horseradish. 

1 tablespoonful cinnamon. 

1 tablespoonful cloves. 

2 tablespoonfuls salt. 

1 tablespoonful celery. 

^ pound sugar. 

^ gallon vinegar. 
Chop up cabbage, tomatoes, onions, and pepper ; sprinkle salt 
over it, and let it stand an hour or so, and pour off the liquor. 
Add spices and vinegar, boil all together until you can stick a 
straw through the cabbage and tomatoes. This, as you see, will 
only make a small quantity when boiled down.— 3frs. 31. 

Mcjsr. 

Spanish Pickle. 

4 dozen large cvicumbers. 

4 large green peppers. 

■|- peck onions. 

^ peck green tomatoes. 
Slice the whole, and sprinkle over with one pint salt, allow 
them to remain over night, then drain them. Put the whole 
into a preserving kettle, and a Ad the following ingredients : 
sliced horsex'adish according to your judgment, one ounce mace, 
one ounce white pepper, one ounce turmeric, one ounce white 
mustard-seed, half an ounce cloves, half an ounce celery-seed, 
four tablespoonfuls of dry mustard, one and a half pounds 
brown sugar. Cover the whole with vinegar, and boil it one 
hour.— Jfrs. J. J. M. 

Onion Pickle. 
Peel and scald the onions in strong salt water twenty-five or 
thirty minutes ; take them out and lay on dishes in the sun, a 



294 PICKLED ONIONS APPLE PICKLE. 

day or two, then put tliem in vinegar prepared as for cabbage 
pickle. — Mrs. Dr. J". 

Pickled Onions. 

Pour boiling water over the onions and let them stand until 
the brine gets cooled ; then change the bi'ine for nine mornings, 
warming it every day. The ninth day put them in fresh water, 
and let them soak one day and night. Then put the spices and 
vinegar on the fire, and let them come to a boil, and drop in the 
onions in a few minutes; add sugar to your taste. — Mrs. A. H. 

Lemon Pickle. 
Rasp the lemons a little and nick them at one end ; lay them 
in a dish with very dry salt, let them be near the fire, and 
covered. They must stand seven or eight days, then put in 
fresh salt, and remain the same time ; then wash them well, and 
pour on boiling vinegar, grated nutmeg, mace, and whole pep- 
per. Whenever the salt becomes damp, it must be taken out 
and dried. The lemons will not be tender for nearly a year. 
The time to pickle them is about February. — 3frs. A. 

Pickling Fifty Lemons. 

Grate off the yellow rind, cut off the end, and pack in salt for 
eight days. Set them in a hot oven, in dishes ; turning until the 
salt candies on them. Place them in a pot and pour on two 
gallons vinegar (boiling) to which has been added two pounds 
white mustard-seed, two tablespoonfuls mace, one pound ginger, 
four tablespoonfuls celery-seed, one pound black pepi>er, two 
pounds sugar, one handful horseradish scraped. 

All the spices, except mustard-seed, must be pulverized. — > 
Mrs.H.P. a 

Apple Pickle. 

3 pounds apples. 
2 pounds sugar. 
1 pint vinegar. 



CHERRY PICKLE TOMATO CATSUP. 295 

1 teaspoouful mace. 

1 tablespoonful beaten cinnamon. 

1 dozen cloves. 

2 teaspoonfuls allspice. 

1 tablespoonful beaten ginger. 
1 tablespoonful celery-seed. 
Boil until the apples are perfectly clear. — 3fTS. »/". A. S. 

Cherry Pickle. 

Pick firm, ripe, short-stem cherries, and lay them in a stone 
jar, with the stems on. Put into a kettle vinegar, sweetened 
to your taste, allspice, mace, cloves, and cinnamon. 

Put on the fire until it is scalding hot, then pour over the 
cherries, and let them stand until next day, when the vinegar 
must be poured off them into the kettle again, and scalded as 
before, and poured on the cherries. Repeat this for nine morn- 
ings, and your pickle is ready for use. — 3frs. 0. 

Pickled Blackberries. 
One pound sugar, one pint vinegar, one teaspoonful powdered 
cinnamon, one teaspoonful allspice, one teaspoonful cloves, one 
teaspoonful nutmeg. Boil all together, gently, fifteen minutes, 
then add four quarts blackberries, and scald (but not boil) ten 
minutes more. The spices can be omitted, if preferred. — 

3frs. W. 

Tomato Catsup. 

Take sound, ripe tomatoes, grate them on a coarse gi-ater, then 
strain through a wire sieve, throwing away the skins and seed. 
Then put the liquid in a cotton bag and let it drip for twenty- 
four hours. Take the residuum and thin to the proper consis- 
tency with vinegar. Then season it to your taste with garlic, 
salt, pepper, and spices. — Mrs. A. A. 

Tomato Catsiq). 
One-half bushel tomatoes stewed sufficiently to be strained 



296 COLD TOMATO CATSUP — TOMA.TO CATSUP. 

through a colandei'; to every gallon of pulp add three quarts 
strong vinegar, two tablespoonfuls salt, four tablespoonfuls 
grated horseradish, one pound brown sugar, three large onions 
chopped fine, one tablespoonful black pepper. Boil till quite 
thick.— 3/7-5. (7. B. 

Cold Tomato Catsup. 

■^ peck ripe tomatoes. 
^ gallon vinegar. 
1 teacup salt. 

1 teacup mustard, ground fine. 
4 pods red pepper. 
3 tablespoonfuls black pepper. 
A handful celery-seed. 
1 cup horseradish. 
All of the ingredients must be cut fine, and mixed cold. Put 
in bottles, cork, and seal tight. It is better kept awhile. — 
Mrs. P. 

Tomato Catsup. 
1 gallon pulp of tomatoes, 

1 tablespoonful ginger. 

2 tablespoonfuls cloves. 

1 tablespoonful black pepper. 

2 tablespoonfuls grated horseradish. 
2 tablespoonfuls salt. 

|- gallon vinegar. 
Boil all well together, then add three pounds sugar, and boil 
awhile.— Jfrs. M. S. C. 

Tomato Catsup. 

Put into a preserving kettle about one pint water, fill up the 

kettle with ripe red tomatoes, previously washed and picked, 

with the skins on, cover closely, and set on a hot fire ; frequentlj/ 

stirring that they may not stick to the bottom. Boil about one 



CUCUMBER CATSUP. 20? 

hour. Turn into a wooden tray ; when cool enough, rub through 
a coarse sieve, through which neither skin nor seed can pass. 
Measure five quarts of this pulp, and boil until very thick, then 
add two tablespoonfuls horseradish, two tablespoonfuls white 
mustard-seed, two tablespoonfuls celery-seed, two tablespoon- 
fuls black pepper beaten fine, two or three races of ginger 
beaten fine, three or four onions chopped fine, a little garlic, 
one nutmeg, salt and sugar to the taste. 

Stir all in, and let it come to a boil. Pour in one quart 
strong cider vinegar. Let it boil up once more, and take ofi" the 
fire. Bottle, cork, and seal. — Mrs. S. T. 

Cucumber Catst p. 
Pare and gi-ate the cucumbers. To one quart of cucumbers 
add three large onions grated, one teaspoonful salt, one tea- 
spoonful pepper, and as much vinegar as cucumbers. Exclude 
the air. — Mrs. L. P. 

Cucumber Cats^i/p. 

Grate three cucumbers ; one onion, one pint of vinegar, one 
tablespoonful black pepper, one tablespoonful salt, one tea- 
spoonful pounded celery-seed. 

Put the catsup in bottles, with large mouths ; as the cucum- 
ber settles, and is hard to get out. — Mrs. 3. T. 

Cucumber Catsup. 
Chop three dozen large cucumbers and eight white onions, 
fine as possible, or grate them. Sprinkle over them three- 
fourths of a pint of salt, one-half teacup ground pepper ; before 
seasoning, drain off all the water through a sieve ; mix well 
with good vinegar, and bottle. — Mrs. P. Wl 

Cucumber Catsup. 

One dozen cucumbers, four large onions, four tablespoonfuls 
Bait, four teaspoonfuls black pepper, one quart strong vinegar. 
Grate onions and cucumbers. — Mrs. H. D. 



298 walnut catsup to makp: catsup from leaves. 

Walnut Catsup. 

To one gallon vinegar : 

Add 100 walnuts pounded. 

2 tablespoonfuls salt. 

A handful horseradish. 

1 cup mustard-seed, bruised, 

1 pint eschalots, cut fine. 

■^ pint garlic. 

^ pound allspice. 

^ pound black pepper. 

A tablespoonful ginger. 
Tf you like, you can add cloves, mace, sliced ginger, and sliced 
nutmeg. Put all these in a jug, cork tightly, shake well, and 
set it out in the sun for five or six days, remembering to shake 
it well each day. Then boil it for fifteen minutes, and when 
nearly cool, sti-ain, bottle, and seal the bottles. — J/y-*. A. C. 

Walnut Catsup. 
Take forty black walnuts that you can stick a pin through ; 
mash and put them in a gallon of vinegar, boil it down to thi'ee 
quarts and strain it. Then add a few cloves of garlic or onion, 
with any kind of spice you like, and salt. When cool, bottle 
it. Have good corks. — Miss JE. T. 

To make Catsup of Walnuts. 
Bruise the walnuts (when lai'ge enough to pickle) in a mor- 
tar ; strain off the liquor and let it stand till it be clear ; to every 
quart thus cleared add one ounce of allsi>ice, one ounce black 
pepper, one ounce ginger bruised fine. Boil the whole about 
half an hour ; then add one pint best vinegar, one ounce salt, 
eight eschalots, or one ounce horseradish. Let it stand to cool ; 
then strain it again, and bottle for use. — Mrs. M. P. 

To make Walnut Catsup from the Leaves. 
Provide a jar that will hold about three gallons. ]Mix the 
following ingredients : common salt one pound, one-half ounce 



BAY SAtJCE —MUSHROOM CATSUP. 299 

powdered cloves, four ounces powdered ginger, one handful gar 
lie sliced, six pods bruised red pepper, three handfuls horse- 
radish root, sliced. Gather the young leaves from the walnut — 
cut them small. Put a layer at the bottom of the jar; then 
sprinkle on some of the ingredients, and so on with alternate 
layers, until the jar is packed full. Let the whole remain in 
this state one night. Then fill with boiling vinegar, tie it closely, 
and let it set in the sun for a fortnight. Then press out the 
li lUor. strain and bottle. — 3frs. E. W. 

JBay Sauce. 

Get young walnut leaves while tender. Make a mixture of 
the following ingredients : one quart salt, one handful horse- 
radish, one-half dozen onions chopped up, two teaspoonfuls all- 
spice, one tablespoonful black ground pepper. 

Put in a layer of the leaves, and then one of the mixture, so 
oh till the jar is nearly filled ; cover with good cold vinegar. 
Put it in the sun for a fortnight, then bottle. It will not be 
good for use until it is six months old. 

This is an excellent .sauce for fisli. It will improve it to add 
a tablespoonful of ground ginger. — Mrs. E. C. G. 

JBay Sauce. 
One pound salt, one-half ounce cloves, four ounces ginger, all 
powdered; three handfuls garlic, three handfuls horseradish 
scraped fine, six pods of red pepper cut up fine. Gather leaves 
of black walnut when young, cut them up fine ; put a layer of 
leaves in the bottom of a jar, then one of ingredients (mixed 
together), until the jar is filled ; tie it up closely and set it in 
the sun for two weeks ; then bottle for use. It is not good for 
six months. Some think two or three large onions an addi- 
tion. — Mrs. H. J). 

Mushroom Catsup. 

Take the largest mushrooms, cut off the roots, put them in a 
stone jar, with salt; mash them and cover the jar. Let them 



300 MUSHROOM SAUCE — MUSHROOM CATSUP. 

stand two days, stirring tliem several times a day ; then strain 
and boil the liquor, to every miait of which put one teaspoonful 
whole pepper, cloves, mustard-seed, a little ginger; when cold 
bottle it, leaving joom in each bottle for one teacupful strong 
vinegar, and one tablespoonful brandy. 
Cork and seal. — Mrs. C. 

Mushroom /Sauce. 

After peeling, lay them on the oyster broiler and sprinkle 
with a little salt. Have ready a hot dish with butter, pepper, 
salt, and cream, and throw the mushrooms into this as they are 
taken from the broiler. A very nice sauce for steaks. — Mrs. 

jr. S. 

Mushroom Catsup. 

Break one peck large mushrooms into a deep earthen pan. 
Strew three-quarters pound salt among them, and set them one 
night in a cool oven, with a fold of cloth or paper over them. 
Next day strain off the liquor, and to each quart add one ounce 
black jiepper, one-quarter ounce allspice, one-half ounce ginger, 
two hu-ge blades mace. 

Boil quickly twenty minutes. When perfectly cold, put into 
bottles, and cork well, and keep in a cool place. — 3Ir. J. H. N. 

Mushroom Catsup. 

Pack the mushrooms in layers, with salt, in a jar ; let them 
stand three hours, then pound them in a mortar, return them 
to the jar and let them remain thi-ee or four days, stirring them 
occasionally. 

For every quart of the liquor add, one ounce of ])epper, hali 
ounce allspice; set the jar in the kettle of water, and boil four 
hours, then pour the liquor through a fine sieve, and boil until 
it is reduced one-half. 

Let it cool and bottle. — Mrs. G. G. 



horseradish sauce — peppeit sauce. 301 

Horseradish Sauce. 
Five tablespoonfuls scraped or grated horseradish, two tea- 
spoonfuls sugar, one teaspoonful salt, half teaspoonful pepper, 
one tablespoonful mixed mustard, one tablespoonful vinegar, 
four tablespoonfuls rich sweet cream. Must be prepared just 
before using. — 3Irs. S. T. 

Horseradish Sauce. 
Just before dinner, scrape one teacup of horseradish, add one 
teaspoonful white sugar, one saltspoonful salt, and pour over 
two tablespoonfuls good cider vinegar. It is best when just 
made. 

Celery Vinegar. 

Pound a gill of celery-seed, put in a bottle and fill with strong 
vinegar. Shake it every day for two weeks, then strain it, and 
keep it for use. It will flavor very pleasantly with celery, — 
Mrs. Dr. J. 

Celery Vinegar. 

Take two gills celery -seed, pound and put it in a celery bot- 
tle, and fill it with sharp vinegar. Shake it every day for two 
weeks ; then strain it, and keep it for use. It will impart an 
agx'eeable flavor to everything in which celery is used. Mint 
and thyme may be prepai'ed in the same way, using vinegar or 
brandy. The herbs should not remain in the liquid more than 
twenty-four houi's. They should be placed in ajar — a handful 
is enough, and the vinegar or brandy poured over them ; take 
out the herbs next day, and put in fresh. Do this for three 
days; then strain, cork, and seal. — JSIrs. JR. 

Pepper Sauce. 
2 dozen peppers. 
Twice this quantity of cabbage. 
1 root of horseradish, cut up tine. 
1 tablespoonful mustard-seed. 
1 dessertspoonful cloves. 



S02 PEPPER SAUCE — TARTAN SAUCE. 

2 tablesponfuls sugar. 

A little mace. 
Boil the spices and sugar in two quarts of best cider vinegar, 
and pour boiling hot over the cabbage and pepper-. — Mrs. W. 
A. K 

Pepper Vinegar. 
One dozen pods red pepper, fully ripe. Take out stems and 
cut them in two. Add three pints vinegar. Boil down to one 
quait; strain through a sieve, and bottle for use. — Mrs. Dr. JT. 

Red Pepper Catsup. 
To four dozen fine ripe bell -peppers add two quarts good 
vinegar, one quart water, three tablespoonfuls grated horserad- 
ish, five onions chopped fine. Boil till soft, and rub tlirough a 
sieve. Then season to your taste with salt, spice, black and 
white mustard well beaten ; after which boil ten minutes. Add 
celery -seed if liked, and a pod or more strong pepper, a little 
sugar. All should be cut up and the seed boiled with it. Bot- 
tle and cork tightly.— Jf/x G. iV. 

Caper Sauce. 
Stir in melted butter two large tablespoonfuls capers, a little 
vinegar. Nasturtiums pickled, or cucumbers cut very fine will 
be good substitutes for the capers. For boiled mutton. — Mrs. 
E. 

Caper Sauce. 

To one cup drawn butter add three tablespoonfuls green 
pickled capers. If j^repared for boiled mutton, use half teacup- 
ful of the water in which it was boiled ; add salt and cayenne 
pepper. Let it boil up once and serve. — Mrs. S. T. 

Tartan Sauce. 
One mustardspoon of mixed mustard, salt and cayenne to the 
taste, the latter highly. 



morgan's tartan sauce TO MIX MUSTARD. 303 

Yolk of one raw egg, sweet-oil added very slowly, until the 
quantity is made that is desired ; thin with a little vinegar. 

Take two small cucumber pickles, two full teasj)Oonfuls capers, 
three small sprigs parsley, and one small shaleot or leek. Chop 
all fine, and stir into the sauce about an hour before serving. 
If very thick, add a tablespoouful cold water. This quantity 
will serve eight persons — is good with trout, veal cutlets, and 
oysters. — Miss E. S. 

Morcan's Tartan Saitce. 

Put into a bowl one spoonful of dry mustard, two spoonfuls 
salt, a little cayenne pepper, yolk of one raw egg ; mix these 
together. 

Then add, di-op by drop, one teacupful sweet oil ; stir until 
a thick mass. Add a little vinegar. Chop very fine two small 
cucumber pickles, two teaspoonfuls capers, two sprigs parsley, 
one leek or small onion, and a little celery ; stir all into the 
dressing. This is delicious with boiled fish, either hot or cold — 
also cold meats, chicken or turkey. — Mrs. IS. 

Aromatic Mustard. 

4 tablespoonfuls ground mustard. 

1 tablespoonful flour. 

1 tablespoonful sugar. 

1 teaspoonful salt. 

1 teaspoonfid black pepper. 

1 teaspoonful cloves. 

1 teaspoonful cinnamon. 
Mix smoothly with boiling vinegar, add a little salad oil, and 
let it stand several hours before using. It will keep any length 
of iime.~Mr. R. H. M. 

To Mix Mustard. 
Take half a cup ground mustard, one tablespoonful sugar, 
four tablespoonfuls vinegai", olive oil, or water, whichever ig 
preferred, one teaspoonful pepper, and one of salt,— Mrs. P. W. 



304 OAKB. 



CAKE. 



Before commencing to make cake, be sure that you have all 
the ingredients in the house, and all the implements at hand, 
such as trays, bowls, large dishes, large strong iron spoons, egg- 
beaters, etc. 

Use none but the best family flour in making cake. It is a 
good plan to sift it before weighing or measuring it, and to let 
it air and sun several hours before using it; as this makes it 
much lighter. 

It is a great mistake to set aside rancid or indifferent butter 
for cake-makiug. The butter used for the purpose should be 
good and fresh. 

Alv/ays use granulated sugar or else 2)owdered loaf or cut 
sugar; as pulverized sugar is apt to have plaster of Paris or 
other foreign elements in it. Never use brown or even clarified 
sugar in cake-making, unless it be for gingerbread. 

Do not attempt to make cake without fresh eggs. Cream of 
tartar, soda and yeast powders are poor substitutes for these. 

A fresh egg placed in water will sink to tlie bottom. 

In bi'eaking eggs, do not break them over the vessels in which 
they are to be beaten. Break them, one by one, over a saucer, 
so that if you come across a defective one, you will not spoil 
the rest by mixing it with them ; whereas, if it is a good one, 
it will be easy to pour the white from the saucer into the bowl 
with the rest of the whites, and to add the yolk which you re- 
tain in the egg-shell to the other yolks. 

The Dover egg-beater saves much time and troxible in beat- 
ing eggs and will beat the yolks into as stiff a froth as the 
whites. It is well to have two egg-beatei's, one for the yolks 
and the other for the whites. Eggs well beaten ought to be as 
stiff as batter. Cool the dishes that you are to use in beating 
eggs. In suinniei-, keep the eggs on ice before using them, and 



WHITE OAKE~SUPERIOR WHITE CAKE. 305 

always try to make the cake before breakfast, or as early iu the 
morning as possible. 

Some of the best house wi\es think it advisable to cream the 
butter and flour together, and add the sugar to the yolks when 
these are whipped to a stiff froth, as it produces yellow specks 
when you add the sugar sooner. The whites must always bo 
added last. 

In making -fruit cake, prepare the fruit the day before. In 
winter time, this may be easily and pleasantly done after tea. 
It requires a longer time to bake fruit cake, than plain. Every 
hoiisekeeper should have a close cake-box in which to put cake 
after cooling it and wrapping it in a thick napkin. 

White Cake. 
The whites of 20 eggs. 
1 pound of flour. 
1 pound of butter. 
1 pound of almonds. 
Use a little more flour, if the almonds are omitted. — Mra, 
Dr. 8. 

White Cake. 
1 cup of butter. 
3 cups of sugar. 
1 cup of sweet milk. 
The whites of 5 eggs. 
3 cups of flour. 

3 teaspoonfuls cream of tartar. 
1 teaspoonful of soda. — Mrs. D. C. K. 

Superior White Cake. 

1 pound sugar. 

The whites of 10 eggs. 

\ pound butter. 

I pound of flour. 

2(i 



306 LEIGHTON OAKE WHITE MOUNTAIN CAKE. 

Flavor ^vath lemon or rose-water, and bake in a m- 
oxen.— 3 frs. F. C. W. 

Leighton Cake. 
1 pint butter. 

1 pint cream. 

2 pints sugar. 
4 pints flour. 

2 teaspoonfuls essence of almonds. 

The whites of 12 eggs. 

2 teaspoonfuls yeast powder, mixed in flour. — Mrs. N. 

White Mountain Cake. 

4 cups flour. 

1 cup butter. 

3 cups sugar, creamed with the butter. 

1 cup sweet milk. 

2 small teaspoonfuls cream of tartar. 
1 small teaspoonful of soda. 
Whites of 10 eggs beaten very light. 

Bake in jelly-cake pans ; when cold, make an icing of whites 
of three eggs and one pound of sugar. Grate cocoanut over 
each layer of icing. — 3Irs. P. McG. 

White Mountain Cake. 
1 pound sugar. 
^ pound butter. 
f pound of flour. 

1 large teaspoonful essence of bitter almonds. 
Whites of 10 eggs, whipped very stiS". 
Cream butter and sugar, put next the eggs, then the flour, 
lastly the flavoring.— J/?-*. D. C. K. 

White Mountain Cake. 
Make four or five thicknesses of cake, as for jelly cake 
Grate one large cocoanut. The juice and grated rind of twc 



WHITE MOUNTAIN CAKE — SNOW MOUNTAIN CAKK. 307 

lemjns or oranges. The •whites of six eggs beaten very light, 
with one poimd sugar. To this add the milk of one cocoaniit, 
thf^n riud and juice of one orange. Lastly, stir in the cocoanut 
well, and put between the cakes as you would jelly. — Mrs. tT. 1j. 

IV/iife ]\louiitain Cake. 

1 pound Hour. 

1 pound sugar. 

|- pound butter. 

Whites of IG eggs. 

Wine-glass of wine or brandy. 

Bake in flat pans. 

Grate two cocoanuts. Beat the whites of four or five eggs 

to a stitf froth, and uux as much sugar as for icing. Stir in the 

cocoanut; spread between each layer of the cake, as jelly cake. 

Ice it all, or only on top, or not at all, as you please. — Mrs. M. 

Mountain Cake. 
The whites of 8 eercs. 

1 cup of butter. 

2 cups of sugar. 

3 cups of tlour. 

•^ cup sweet milk. 

] teaspoonful of cream of tartar. 

^ teaspoonful of soda. 
Mi.x. all the ingredients well, and flavor with lemon. Buke in 
very shallow pans. Ice each cake separately and cover with 
jelly; then form a large cake, and ice over. — Mrs. Dr. S. 

Snow Mountain Cake. 
1 cup of butter. 

3 cups of sugar, creamed together. 
1 cup of sweet cream. 

1 teaspoonfid cream of tartar and ^ teaspoon of soda, sprinkled 
in 3i>- cups of sifted ilour. 



308 8N0W CAKE — MOUNTAIN ASH OAKE. 

Bake in thin cakes as for jelly cakes. Ice and sprinkle 
each layer with grated cocoanut. 

Take the whites of three eggs for the icing, and grate one 
cocoanut. — Mrs. C M. A. 

Snow Cake. 

Whites of 10 eggs. 
1^ cnps of sugar. 

1 cup of flour. 

2 teaspoons of cream of tartar. 
Salt. 

Flavoring. 
Rub the flour, cream tartar, sugar, and salt, well together. 
Add the eggs beaten light, and stir only sufficient to mix very 
lightly.— Jfrs. G. P. 

White Mountain Ash Cake. 
1 pound white sugar. 
1 teacup of butter. 
■J- teacup sweet milk. 
Whites of 10 eggs. 
^ small teaspoonful of soda. 
1 teaspoonful cream tartar. 

3 cups of flour. 

Flavor with vanilla or almond. 
Bake in jelly-cake pans, with icing and cocoanut between. 
Icing for cake. — One pound fine white sugar, and whites of 
three eggs. — Miss E. P. 

Mountain Ash Cake. 
The whites of 8 eggs. 

1 cup of butter, 

2 cups of sugar. 

3 cups of flour. 

^ cup of sweet milk. 



BRroE's CAKE. 309 

^ teaspoonful of soda. 

1 teaspoonful cream of tartar. 
Mix all the ingredients well, and flavor with lemon. 
Bake in shallow pans ; ice each cake separately and cover 
with jelly, then form a large cake and ice over. — Mrs. P. 

Bride's Cake. 

1 pound flour. 

f pounds sugar. 

\ pound butter. 

Whites of 14 eggs. 
Cream sugar and butter together, and stir in them flour and 
beaten whites, very Kttle at a time ; one and a half pounds 
fruit, prepared and mixed with batter, will make a nice fruit 
cake. — Mrs. H. D. 

JBride's Cake. 

Whites of 18 eggs. 

\^ pounds sugar. 

1 pound flour. 

|- pound butter. 

Cream butter and sugar together ; whip the eggs to a stifl 
froth, then add gradually, flour, butter, sugar. 

Season with lemon or brandy. Bake as pound cake.—^Mrs. 
B.E. 

Sride^a Cake. 

1-^ pounds flour. 
\^ pounds sugar. 
1^ pounds butter. 
Whites of 20 eggs. 

^ a teaspoon of powdered ammonia dissolved in ^ a wineglass 
of brandy. 

Heavy plain icing. 1^ pound mould. 

Insert the ring after the cake is baked. — Miaa 8. 



310 bride's cake SILVER CAKE. 

Bride^s Cake. 
\ pound flour. 
\ pound butter. 
14 whites of eggs. 
1 pound sugar — beat in the whites. 
The acid of 1 green lemou. 
Double for one and a half pound cake. — Mrs. »/". 

Silver Cake. 
Whites of 8 eggs. 
\ pound of butter. 
\ pound of sugar. 
\ and \ a quarter of a pound of sifted flour, or 6 ounces of 

flour. 
Cream the butter and sugar. — Mrs. TF! G. R. 

Silver Cake. 
1 pound j)0wdered sugar 
|- pound flour. 
|- pound butter. 
Whites of 11 eggs. 

1 teaspoonful essence of bitter abuond. 
Cream tlie butter, gradually rub in the flour, then the sugar ; 
add the flavoring ; last of all, stir in the wdiites of the eggs 
beaten to a stift' froth. Flavor the icing "with vanilla or bitter 
almonds. — J/rs. S. T. 

Silver Cake. 

One cup sugar, 
■g- cup butter. 
1^ cups flour. 
\ cup of milk. 

•J- teaspoon of cream tartar, and half as much .soda 
Wliites of 4 eggs. 
Beat the biitter and eggs to a cream, then add the milk and 
flour with the soda and cream tartar; whisk the white.^ of the 



OOID CAKE — LADY CAKE. 611 

eggs to a froth, and stir tliem in gently at the last. Flavor with 
lemon. — Mrs. C. 

Gold Cake. 
1 pound flour. 
1 povind sugar. 
f pound butter. 
Yolks of 11 eggs. 
Grated rind of an orange. 
Juice of 2 lemons. 
1 teaspoonful soda. 
Cream the butter well, rub into it the flour. Beat the yolks 
well, put in the sugar, and beat again ; add the orange rind and 
lemon j nice. 

Mix all together, and beat for ten minutes. Last of all, sift 
in the soda, stirring it in well. Requires two hours to bake in 
one pound cake-mould. Flavor the icing with lemon. — Mrs. 
S. T. 

Angel's Cake. 

Whites of 8 eggs, well beaten. 

1 cup of butter. 

2 cups of sugar. 

3 cups of flour. 

1 teaspoonful cream of tartar. 

^ teaspoonful of soda, dissolved in ^ cup of milk. 
Mix in this way ; add the sugar to the eggs, then the butter 
well creamed, then the flour and milk alternately. Season to 
taste. Bake thin, and spread icing between, on the top and 
sides, sprinkling grated cocoanut over the whole. — Mrs. 0. 

Lady Cake. 
1 pound sugar. 
\ pound of flour. 
6 ounces of butter. 
The whites of 14 eggs. 
Season with two drops oil of bitter almond. — Miss S. 



312 LADY CAKE— MEERY CHEI8TMA0 CAKE. 

Lady Cake. 
The whites of 8 eggs, beaten to a froth. 
3 cups flour. 
2 cups of sugar. 
1 cup of butter, creamed with the sugar. 

1 teaspoonful cream of tartar in the flour. 
\ teaspoonful of soda in \ cup sweet milk. 

Beat all together, and bake in a mould or small pans. Season 
to taste. A little whisky or rum improves cake of all kinds. — 
M^ 3. Dr. G. 

Delicate Cake. 

2 cups white sugar. 
2^ cups corn starch. 

8 tablespoonfuls butter. 
Whites of 8 eggs. 

^ teaspoonful soda, dissolved in milk. 
^ teaspoonful cream tartar in corn starch. 
Flavor with juice of one lemon. — Mrs. R. JR. 

Delicate Cake. 
One pound pulverized white sugar, seven ounces of butter 
(stirred to a cream). 

Whites of 16 eggs, beaten stiff. 
Stir in 1 pound of sifted flour. 
Flavor to the taste. Bake immediately. — Mrs. A. H. 

Merry Christmas Cake. 
2 cups sugar. 

1 cup corn starch. 

2 cups flour. 

1 cup butter. 

\ cup sweet milk. 
Whites of 8 eggs. 

2 teaspoonfuls baking powder. 

B«ke in jelly-cake pans. Between each layer when done, on 



CX)RN STARCH CAKE — WHITE FRUIT CAKE. 31.T 

sides and top, spread icing, with grated cocoanut. A very 
pretty dish. — Mrs. McG-. 

Corn Starch Cake. 

1 cup butter. 

2 cups sugar. 

1-^ cups com starch. 

2 cups flour. 

1 cup milk, perfectly sweet. 

■^ teaspoonful soda. 

•^ teaspoonful cream tartar. 
Beat the sugar and butter together. Dissolve the soda and 
corn starch in the milk; put the cream tartar in the flour. 
Mix these well, and then add the whites of eight eggs well beaten. 
—Mrs. S. 

White Fruit Cake. 

1 pound sugar. 

1 pound flour. 

1 pound butter. 

1 pound blanched almonds. 

3 pounds citron. 

1 cocoanut. 

Whites of 16 eggs. — Mrs. Dr. J. 

White Fruit Cake. 

1 pound pulverized sugar. 

f- pound butter. 

Whites of 12 eggs, beaten very light. 

1 pound flour. 

2 grated cocoanuts. 

2 pounds citron, cut in small pieces. 
2 pounds blanched almonds, cut in thin slices. 
Bake slowly. 

27 



314 WHITE FRUIT CAKE BLACK CAKE. 

White Fruit Cake. 
Whites of 16 eggs, beaten well. 
8 ounces butter. 
1 pound flour. 
1 pound sugar. 
1 teacup citron. 
1 cup almonds. 
3 cups grated cocoanut. 
The citron and almonds to be cut and blanched, of coui'se. 

White Fruit Cake [^superior, tried recipe^. 

1 pound white sugar. 

1 pound flour. 
■^ pound butter. 
Whites of 12 eggs. 

2 pounds citron, cut in thin, long sti'ips. 

2 pounds almonds, blanched and cut in strips. 

1 large cocoanut, grated. 
Before the flour is sifted, add to it one teaspoonful of soda, 
two teaspoonfuls cream tai-tar. Cream the butter as you do for 
pound cake, add the siigar, and beat it awhile ; then add the 
whites of eggs, and flour ; and after beating the batter sufli- 
ciently, add about one-third of the fruit, reserving the rest to 
add in layers, as you put the batter in the cake-mould. Bake 
slowly and carefully, as you do other fruit cake. — Mrs. W. 

Black Cake. 
\\ povmds butter. 
l^V pounds sugar. 
1:^^ ]>ounds flour. 
1:^ dozen eggs. 
2 pounds stoned raisins. 
2 pounds picked and washed currants. 

1 pound sliccid citron. 

2 tablespoonfuls pulverized cloves. 



BLACK CAKE. 315 

2 tablespoonfuls nutmeg. 

2 tablespoonfuls mace. 

2 tablespoonfuls cinnamon. 

1 tablespoonful powdered ginger. 

1 teaspoon ful salt. 

2 wineglasses of brandy. — Mrs. JJ. 

£lack Cake. 
\\ pounds flour. 
\\ pounds butter. 
1-^ pounds sugar. 

1 pound citron. 

2 pounds beaten raisins 

2 pounds sweet raisins, well cut. 
2 pounds currants. 
The j uice and rind of two lemons and two oranges, one tea- 
spoonful of soda ; after the beaten fruit is well beaten, add the 
cut fruit. The citron or oi'ange peel should never be rubbed in 
flour.— JIfrs. P. 

Ulack Cake. 
Yolks of 24 eggs. 
1 pound buttei'. 

1 pound sugar. 

Take out a gill of the sugar, and in place put one gill of 
molasses, one pound flour ; out of it take six tablespoonfuls, 
and in place put five spoonfuls of seconds, and one of corn meal. 

4 pounds seedless raisins. 

\ pound citron. 

\ pound currants. 

\ pound almonds and palm nuts. 

2 ounces grated cocoaniit. 
2 ounces tine chocolate. 

1 tablespoonful finely ground coft'ee. 

1 tablesjjoonful allspice, mace, and cloves. 

1 tablespoonful vanilla. 



dlB FEUIT CAKE WITH SPICES FRUIT OAKE. 

1 gill blackberry wine, or brandy. 

1 teaspoonful soda. 

2 teaspoonfuls cream tartar. 

Bake the mass six hours very moderately. — Mrs. J. 

Fruit Cake with Spices. 

1 pound butter. 

1 pound sugar. 

1 pound flour, 

1 dozen eggs. 

Mix as for pound cake. 

Add 1 poimd almonds. 

1 pound raisins. 

\ pound citron. 

1 ounce mace. 

1 ounce cloves. 

1 oxince allspice. — Mrs. A. C. 

Fruit Cake. 

2 pounds best stoned raisins. 
2 pounds currants. 
1 pound citron, 
12 eggs. 

1 pound fresh butter. 
1 pound loaf sugar. 
1 pound flour. 
Make the batter as you would for nice cake, and before add- 
ing the fruit, stir into the batter — 

4^ teaspoonfuls cream of tartar. 

lA^ teaspoonful soda. 

1 large tablespoonful of ground cinnamon. 

1 small tablespoonful of white ginger. 

4^ nutmegs. 

1 tablespoonful of best molasses. 



FEUIT CAKE. 417 

Add by degrees the fruit and one-half teacup best brai dy ; 
bake slowly five hoxirs. Excellent, and will keep good six 
months. — Mrs. J^Z 

Fruit Cake. 

18 eggs, 

1^ pounds flour. 
1^ pounds sugar. 
1-^ pounds butter. 
2 pounds raisins. 

2 pounds currants, washed and picked. 
1^ pounds citron. 
2 nutmegs. 

2 pounds almonds, weighed in shell. 
2 tablespoonfuls cinnamon. 
2 tablespoonfuls mace. 
•- 1 small teaspoonful cloves, 

1 small teaspoonful salt. 

2 teaspoonfuls ginger. 
2 wine-glasses of wine. 
1 wine-glass of brandy. 

1 teaspoonful soda. 

2 teaspoonfuls cream of tartar, in a cup of milk. 

Let it rise about three hours, then bake slowly, and let i* 
stand a good while after it is baked, in the oven. — Mrs. C. B. 

Fruit Cake. 
2^ pounds butter. 
2^ pounds flour. 
25 eggs. 

2^ pounds sugar. 
3 pounds citi'on. 

5 pounds currants. 

6 pounds raisins. 

A large spoonful cinnamon. 



318 FKtriT CAKE — KICH FKDIT CAKE. 

1 spoonful mace. 
4 nutmegs. 
A. glass wine. 
A glass brandy. 
This will make a very large cake. — Mrs. A. I*. 

Fruit Cake. 

1-^ pound risen dough. 

10 eggs. 

2 cups butter. 

4 cups sugar. 

1 cup milk. 

1 cup wine, or brandy. 

1 light teaspoonful soda. 

1 teaspoonful lemon extract. 

^ teaspoonful cloves. 
Beat these ingredients together and add one pound of stoned 
raisins, one pound of citron dredged in floui\ 

If very soft for cake, add a little flour. — Mrs. tT. W. 

Rich Fruit Cake. 
1 quart of sifted flour. 

1 pound of fresh butter, cut up in 1 pound powdered sugar. 
12 eggs. 

3 poxmds of bloom raisins. 
\^ pound of Zante currants. 
|- pound of sliced citron. 

1 tablespoonful each of mace and cinnamon. 

2 nutmegs. 

1 large wineglassful Madeira wine. 

1 large wineglassful French brandy mixed with the spices. 

Beat the butter and sugar together — eggs separately. Flour 
the fruit well, and add the flour and other ingredients, putting 
the fruit in last. Bake in a straight side mould, is it turns 



FBUIT CAKE OKANGE CAKE. 319 

out easier. One pound of blanched almonds will improve this 
recipe. Bake until thoroughly done, then ice while warm. — 
3frs. L. 

Fruit Cake. 

1 pound sugar. 

1 pound flour. 

1 pound butter. 

2 pounds raisins. 

2 pounds currants. 

1 pound citron. 

2 tablespoonfuls of mace and cinnamon. 
2 nutmegs, powdered. 

^ pint of brandy and wine, mixed. 
Bake in a slow oven. Seedless raisins are best for cake. — 
Mrs. F. C. W. 

^ Pineapple, or Orange Cake. 

1 cup of butter. 
3 cups sugar. 

5 eggs, beaten separately. 

3|^ cups flour. 

•^ cup sweet milk. 

2 teaspoonfuls cream of tartar. 
1 teaspoonful soda. 

Bake in jelly-cake tins, four or five deep. Have ready 
a thick icing, which put on the cakes as thickly as will stick ; 
spread thickly on that the grated pineapple, or orange, the icing 
to be flavored with the juice of the fruit and a little tartaric 
acid. — Mrs. C. C. 

Orange Cake. 

Bake sponge cake in jelly-cake pans, three for each cake. 
Spread an icing between the cakes, made of whites of three eggs, 
beaten very light, and one and one-quarter pounds powdered 
sugar. 

The rind and juice of one large, or two small oranges. 



320 ORANGE CAKE LEMON CAKE, 

The rind and juice of one-half lemon ; the other half to be 
used for the cake. — Mrs. P. Mc G. 

Orange Cake. 
8 eggs. 

l-g- ])Ounds sugar. 
1^ pounds flour. 
f pound butter. 

1 pint milk. 

2 teaspoonfuls ci-eam tartar. 
1 teaspoonful soda. 

Beat the eggs very light, and mix in the sugar and creamed 
butter. Pour in half the milk, and dissolve the cream tartar 
and soda in the other half. Add the sifted flour as quickly as 
possible after the foaming milk is poured in. Bake in jelly- 
cake pans. 

Take six oranges, grate the peel and squeeze the juice with 
two pounds pulverized sugar. If you use sweet oranges, add the 
juice of two lemons. After stirring to a smooth paste, spread 
between the layers of the cake. Ice, or sprinkle over sugar the 
last layer on top of the cake. — Mrs. J'. C. W. 

Orange Cake. 
First make a sponge cake with twelve eggs, the weight of 
twelve eggs in sugar, and weight of ten iu flour. Then make 
an icing of the whites of two eggs, the juice of one lemon, and 
the juice and grated rind of two oranges ; add sufficient pow- 
dered sugar to make the proper consistency for icing — then put 
between each cake, and on toji of the whole cake. — Mrs. C. S. 

Lemon Oake. 
1 cupful butter. 
3 cupfuls white sugar. 
5 eggs beaten separately. 
Cream butter and sugar together. 



LEMON CAKE "GEN. EGBERT LEE CAKE. 

1 teaspoonful soda. 
1 cup milk. 

The juice and grated rind of one lemon. 
5 small teacupfuls flour. 
Bake in small or shallow tins. — Mrs. G. 

Lemon Cahe. 

One cupful of butter, three cupfuls of white sugar, loibbed to 
a cream. 

Stir in the yolks of five eggs well beaten, and one teaspoonful 
of soda dissolved in a cupful of milk ; add the whites, and sift 
in as lightly as possible four cupfuls of flour. Add the juice 
and grated peel of one lemon. — Mrs. Dr. S. 

" Robert E. Lee " Cake. 

Twelve eggs, their full weight in sugar, a half- weight in flour. 
Bake it in pans the thickness of jelly cakes. Take two pounds 
of nice " A " sugar, squeeze into it the juice of five oranges and 
three lemons together with the pulp ; stir it in the sugar until 
perfectly smooth ; then spread it on the cakes, as you would do 
jelly, putting one above another till the whole of the sugar is 
nsed up. Spread a layer of it on top and on sides. — Mrs. G. 

"Gen. Robert Lee" Cake. 

10 eggs. 

1 pound sugar. 

^ pound flour. 

Rind of 1 lemon, and juice of -^ lemon. 
Make exactly like sponge cake, and bake in jelly-cake tins. 
Then take the whites of two eggs beat to a froth, and add one 
pound sugar, the grated rind and juice of one orange, or juice 
of half a lemon. Spread it on the cakes before they are per- 
fectly cold, and place one layer on another. This quantity 
makes two cakes. — Mrs. I. IT. 



322 COCOANUT CAKE — MOUNTAIN COCOANUT CAKE. 

CocoANUT Cake. 
1 teacup fresh butter. 
3 teacups white sugar. 
3^ teacups flour. 
Whites of ten eggs. 
1 cup sweet milk. 

1 Kght teaspoonful soda. 

2 light teaspoonfuls cream of tartar. 
A little essence of lemon. 

Bake in cakes an inch thick and spread with icing, having 
grated cocoanut stirred in ; pile one on another, allowing a little 
time for drying off. In making the icing, reserve some plain 
for the outside of cake. Finish off by sprinkling on the pre- 
pared cocoanut. — Miss P. 

Cocoanut Cake. 
Beat to a fine cream three-quarters of a pound' of butter and 
half a pound of sugar. Add gradually eight eggs well beaten ^ 
then mixed, one tablespoonful essence of lemon, one small nut- 
meg, grated ; mix all well together, then stir in lightly half a 
pound flour in turn with half a pound of grated cocoanut. 
Pour the mixture in a well-buttered pan, and bake quickly. — 
Mrs. C V. McG. 

Mountain Cocoanut Cake. 
Cream together one pound sugar, half a pound butter. Beat 
eight eggs lightly without separating. Stir them gradually 
into the butter and sugar. Sift in one pound of flour, beat all 
light, then put in an even teaspoonful of soda dissolved in half 
a teacupful of sweet milk, two even teaspoonfuls cream of tar- 
tar dissolved in the same quantity of milk. Season with lemon 
or vanilla. For the icing, nine tablespoonfuls of water and 
one pound sugar ; boil until it glistens. Beat the whites 
of four eggs to a stiff froth, stir into the boiling icing, then add 



angel's bread CLAY CAKE. 323 

half a pound of grated cocoanut. Spread the icing between the 
cakes and on the top. — Miss JS. 

Angel's Bread. 
A variety of Cocoanut Cake. 

1 cup butter. 

2 cups sugar. 

3 cups flour. 
Whites of eight eggs. 
^ cup sweet milk. 

^ teaspoonful soda, 1 teaspoonful cream of tartar, stirred in 
the milk. 

Flavor with vanilla. 

Bake in jelly-cake pans. 

1 grated cocoanut. 

Spread top and bottom of cake with icing, then put on the 
cocoanut, and so on till your cake is large as you wish. Ice 
the whole cake, and sprinkle on cocoanut. Make the icing, 
three whites to one potind of pulverized sugar, with juice of 
one lemon. — Mrs. D. R. 

Clay Cake. 

3 cups sugar. 
1 cup butter. 

4 cups flour. 

1 cup sweet milk. 

6 eggs. 

1 teaspoonful soda in the milk. 

1 teaspoonful cream of tartar in the flour. 
Flavor with vanilla. Bake it in layers. 

Icing for the Cake. — Beat the whites of four eggs into a froth, 
and add nine teaspoonfuls of pulverized sugar to each egg, 
flavoring it with vanilla. Then grate up two large cocoanuts, 
and after icing each layer, sprinkle grated cocoanut on it. Put 
the layei's on each other as in making jelly cake. — Mrs. 1. TF". 



324 OOCOANUT CAKES. 

Cocoanut Cake. 

2 cups powdered sugar. 
^ cup butter. 

3 eggs. 

1 cup milk. 
3 cups flour. 

2 teaspoonfuls cream of tartar. 
1 teaspoonful soda. 

Bake in jelly-cake pans. 

Filling : one grated cocoanut ; to half-pound of this add the 
whites of three eggs beaten to a froth, one cup of powdered 
sugar ; lay this between the layers of the cake ; mix with the 
other half of the cocoanut four tablespoonfuls powdered sugar, 
and strew thickly on top of the cake. — Mrs. D. C. K. 

One, Two, Three, Four Cocoanut Cake. 

1 cup butter. 

2 cups sugar. 

3 cups flour. 
Whites of 4 eggs. 

1 teaspoonful cream of tartar. 

•J teaspoonful soda. 

■J small cocoanut, stirred in at the last. — Mrs. D. C. K. 

Cocoa/nut Cake. 

1 teacup of butter. 
3 teacups of sugar. 
3^ teacups of flour. 
Whites of 10 eggs. 

\ cup sweet milk, with one teaspoon not quite full of soda. 

2 teaspoonfuls cream of tartar. 
Essence of lemon. 

Beat the eggs very light. Cream the butter, then mix the 
ingredients gradually. Sift the cream tartar with the flour, and 
dissolve the soda in the milk, and add to the cake last. Bake 
in pans ; an inch thick when baked. Mix prepared cocoanut 



CHOCOLATE CAKE. 325 

with the icing ; ice the top of the first cake with the cocoanxit 
icing, dry it slightly ; lay another cake on top, and ice again, 
and continue until the last cake is added, then ice all over. 
"When the last coat of icing is put on, sprinkle the prepared 
cocoanut all over the cake, to give it a frosted appearance. — 

Mrs. M. S. C. 

Chocolate Cake. 

1^ pounds grated chocolate. 

12 eggs. 

If pounds brown sugar. 

1 teaspoonful cinnamon. 

1 teaspoonful nutmeg. 

1 teaspoonful cloves. 

A few coriander-seed. 
Break the eggs in the sugar and beat them, adding the choco- 
late by degrees, until well incorporated ; then add the spices, 
all of which must be well powdered. Grease some small tins 
with lard, and bake quickly. — -JLfrs. T. 

Chocolate Cake. 

2 cupfuls sugar. 
1 cupful butter. 

3 cupfuls flour. 

f cupful sour cream or milk. 
3 eggs. 

1 teaspoonful cream tartar. 
■J teaspoonful soda. 
Beat the sugar and butter together ; break the eggs into it 
one at a time; then add the flour, then the sour cream ^vith the 
soda. Bake in jelly-cake pans. 

Filling : two ounces of chocolate, one cupful of sugar, thi-ee- 
quarters cup of sweet milk ; boil half-done. — 3frs. F. 

Chocolate Cake. 
3 cupfuls sifted flour. 
1^ cupfuls sugai'. 



326 CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

1 cupful sweet milk. 

1 egg. 

2 tablespoonfuls butter. 

1 teaspoonful soda. 

2 teaspoonfuls cream tartar. 
1 teaspoonful essence lemon. 

Beat the butter and sugar to a cream, then add the milk 
(in which the soda should be dissolved), next the eggs well 
beaten, and lastly the essence. Mix two cupfuls of flour, and 
afterwards the third cupful of flour into which the cream tartar 
has been stirred. Bake in square, flat pans. Grate three 
ounces of chocolate, add four tablespoonfuls of milk ; warm 
slowly, and add eight tablespoonfuls of white sugar. Boil three 
minutes, and pour over top of the cake. If you choose, you can 
slice open the cake, and put inside of it a custard of one pint of 
milk, wai'med, and two eggs added, with sugar and flour to your 
taste.— ilfrs. H. 

Chocolate Cake. 

2 cupfuls sugar. 

1 cupful butter. 

Yolks of 5 eggs and whites of 2. 

1 cupful milk. 

3^ cupfuls flour. 

\ teaspoonful soda. 

1 teaspoonful cream tartar, sifted in tlie flour. 
Bake in jelly-cake tins. 

Filling : whites of three eggs, one and a half cupfuls of sugar, 
three tablespoonfuls of grated chocolate, one teaspoonful of 
vanilla. Beat well together ; spread on top and between layers 
of the cake. — Mrs. K. 

Chocolate Cake. 
Ci'eam together one pound sugar, one and a half pounds but- 
ter. Beat eight eggs light without separating ; stir tliem grad- 
ually into the sugar and butter. Sift in one pound of flour : 



CHOCOLATE JELLY CAKE — CITRON CAKE. 327 

beat all ligM. Then put in an even teaspoonful of soda dis- 
solved in a half-teacupful of sweet milk, two even teaspoon- 
fuls cream tartar dissolved in the same quantity of milk. Sea- 
son with lemon or vanilla. Bake in jelly pans. 

Icing for the same : nine tablespoonfuls of water, one pound 
of sugar ; boil till it glistens. 

Beat the whites of four eggs to a stiff froth. Stir them into 
the boiling icing, then add one-quarter pound grated chocolate. 

Spread the icing between the cakes and over the top. — 
Miss /S. 

Chocolate Jelly Cake. 

Make a sponge cake according to old family recipe, bake 
either in jelly tins or moulds ; then slice the cake for the fol- 
lowing preparation : one teacupful of milk, half a cake Baker's 
chocolate, scraped or grated, one egg beaten with sugar enough 
to make it sweet ; flavor witli vanilla. Let it boil (stirring all 
the time) till quite thick. Place it evenly and thickly between 
the slices of cake. Instead of the sponge cake, some use the 
ordinary jelly -cake recipe. — Jfrs. J3. 

Citron Cake. 
12 ounces flour. 
12 ounces butter. 
10 eggs. 
1 pound sugar. 

1 pound citron, cut in thin slices. 
Mix like a pound cake. — 3frs. C. L. T. 

Citron Cake. 
4 large coffeecups sifted flour. 
2^ cupfuls powdered sugar. 
1 cupful butter. 

Whites of 10 eggs, beaten to a stifi" froth. 
Add two tablespoonfuls rose water. 



328 CITRON CAKE — ALMOND CAKE. 

Butter a cake pan, and put alternate layers of batter and cit- 
ron sliced in long, thin slices. — Mrs. McG. 

Citron Cake. 
1 pound flour. 

1 pound sugar, 
f pound butter. 
12 eggs. 

2 pounds citron. 

2 pounds grated cocoanut. 

2 pounds almonds. 

1 teaspoonful mace. — Mrs. M. E. 

Citron Cake. 

1 pound of flour. 
\ pound of sugar, 
f pound of butter. 
10 or 12 ewc/s. 

2 pounds of citron. 
1 cocoanut, grated. 

Fruit to be put in last. — Mrs. Dr. S. 

Almond Cake. 
\\ pounds of sugar. 
1;!^ pounds of butter. 
1 pound of flour. 
12 eggs. 
1 pound almonds. — Mrs. H. 

Almond Cake. 
12 eggs. 
1 pound flour. 
1 pound sugar. 
1 pound butter. 



DARK FIG CAKE -POUND CAKE. 329 

1 pound almonds (blanched). 

1 pound citron. 
Blanch the almonds, and slice the citron thin. 
One wine-glass of brandy. 
Mix like pound cake. — 'Mrs. S. T. 

Dark Fig Cake. 

2 cups of sugar. 
1 cup of butter. 

One cup of cold water, with one teaspoonful of soda dissolved 
in it. 

3 cups of raisins, chopped fine. 
Cinnamon and nutmeg. 

4 eoj"s. 

1 pound of figs. 

Use the figs whole, covering them well with the cake to 
prevent burning. Bake in layers, frosting between each layer. 
Make as stift" as pound cake. Cut with a very sharp knife, 
to prevent crumbling. This recipe makes two loaves. — 3Its. 
A. T. 

Currant Cake. 

1 cup butter. 

2 cups sugar. 

\ cup sweet milk. 
5 eggs. 
4 cups flour. 
\ a nutmeg. 

3 teaspoonfuls baking powder. 

One pound currants washed, dried, and rolled in the flour. — 
Mrs. W. L. H. 

Pound Cake. 

1 pound butter. 
1 pound flour. 
1 pound sugar. 

16 eggs, yolks of 4. 

28 



330 POtTND CAKE. 

After the butter is crfiamed, work the sugar and butter well 
before mixing, — Mrs. M. S. C. 

Pound Cake. 

1 pound siTgaf. 

1 pound butter. 

1 poi;nd of flour. 

12 eggs. 
Cream the butter; rub into it gradually the sifted and dried 
flour. Beat the yolks of ten eggs very light, then add the 
powdei'ed sugar, beat again, add a wine-glass of brandy or 
one of good whiskey flavored with nutmeg, or the grated rind 
of a lemon ; mix all together. Stir in the whites of twelve eggs 
beaten to a stifi" froth, just before baking. It will take two 
hours to bake. — Mrs. S. T. 

Pound Cake. 
1 pound flour. 
1 pound of sugar, 
f pound of butter. 
10 eggs. 
Cream the butter well with flour ; beat the yolks well, and add, 
by degrees, the butter and flour, and then the whites beaten to a 
stiff" froth. Season with mace and one glass of wine. Bake in 
cups well greased. For fruit cake add to above, two pounds 
of raisins, two pounds of currants, one-half a pound of citron, 
stirred in by degrees. Add nutmeg and cinnamon to the sea- 
soning. One pound of butter, and one dozen eggs for fruit 
cake. — Mrs. A. C. 

Pound Cake. 

Beat the whites of twelve eggs to a stiff froth. The yolks 
beat until they look light and white ; then beat in one pound 
of sugar ; next add the whites ; cream the light pound of butter 
until it looks frothy ; then sift in by degrees one pound of flour 
and cream them together, and add the other mixture. Put a 



VEET DELICATE POUND CAKE BUTTEE SPONGE CAKE. 331 

little powdered mace, if you like, a wine-glass of wine, and the 
same of brandy. — Mrs. W. 

Very Delicate Pound Cake. 
16 eggs, 4 yolks. 
1 pound of flour. 
1 pound of siigar. 
I pound of butter. — Mrs. S. T. 

Superior Pound Cake. 
1 pound of white sugar. 
f pound of butter. 
1 pound of flour. 
Whites of 12 eggs, yolks of 9. 
Cream the butter ; add part of the sugar and yolks, and beai 
well ; then gradually add the whites, and flour and balance of 
yolks. Beat well, flavor with extract of lemon, and bake in 
a moderate oven. — Mrs. F. G. W. 

Pound Cake. 
1 pound flour. 

I pound .sugar, 
f pound butter. 

II eggs. 

Sift and dry the flour, sift the sugar ; wash all the salt out ol 
the butter, and squeeze all the water out of it. Cream the but- 
ter with half the flour or more ; beat the whites and yolks sep- 
arately, beating rather more than half of the sugar with the 
yolks; then rub the remaining sugar and flour up together. 
Mix all these ingredients, part at a time, first one, then another. 
Beat well, and season with French brandy and lemon, or wine 
and nutmeg, to your taste. — 3Irs. M. 

Butter Sponge Cake. 
14 eggs. 
Weight of 1 4 in sugar. 



332 BUTTER SPONGE CAKE SPONGE OAKB. 

Weight of 8 in butter. 
Weight of 6 in flour. 
Juice and grated rind of two lemons. 
All th^ ingifedients added to the beaten yolks, and the frothed 
whites stirred in last. — Mrs. S. T. 

Butter Sponge Cake. 

14 eggs. 

Their weight in sugar. 
8 in flour. 
6 in butter. 

The rind of 1, and juice of 2 lemons. 
Bake quickly.— J/rs. S. 

Sponge Cake. 
The weight of 1 dozen eggs in sugar. 
The weight of 4 eggs in flour. 
The juice and )iiKl of 1 lemon. 
Beat well, and bake quickly. — 3Irs. Mc G. 

Confederate Sponge Cake. 

1 cupful white sugar. 

2 cupfuls sifted flour. 
|- cupful cold water. 

3 eggs. 

One teaspoonful yeast powder in the flour ; flavor to the 
taste. Mix yolks and sugar, then add the water after the 
whites (beaten to a stiS" froth first), then the flour. — Miss S. 

Sponge Cake. 

14 eggs. 

Weight of 10 in powdered sugar. 
Weight of 6 in flour. 
Grated rind and juice of 1 lemon. 
Beat the yolks of eight eggs very light, then add the sugar 



SPONGE CAKE J<:XTRA SPONGE CAKE. 333 

and beat again. Put in the juice and grated rind of a lemon, 
then the whites of fourteen eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Beat 
all together for fifteen minutes without cessation, stirring in the 
flour last, barely mixing ; do not beat it. Pour into buttered 
moulds or shapes and bake in a hot oven. A large cake will 
require fully an hour for baking. If it bakes too fast on top, 
cover with buttered paper. — Mrs. S. T. 

Sponge Cake. {Never fails.) 
12 eggs. 

Their weight in sugar. 
The weight of 7 in flour. 
Juice of 1 lemon. 
1 tablespoonful good vinegar. 
Beat the whites, beat the yolks and sugar ; add the whites, 
beat well ; add the flour, and after adding it, do not beat it 
longer than is requii'ed to stir it in ; then add the lemou and 
vinegar, just as you put it in the tins or moulds. 

When the cake is hot, lemon sauce is nice to eat with it. — ■ 
Mrs. K. 

Cbeam Sponge Cake. 
4 eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately. 
2 teacupfuls sugar. 

1 cupful sweet cream. 

2 hea[)ing cupfuls flo\ir. 
1 teaspoonful soda. 

Two teaspoonfuls cream ot tartar, mixed in tlie flour before 
it is sifted. Add whites of eggs last thing before tlie flour, then 
Btir that in gently, without beating. Very nice. — Mrs. I^\ 

c. w. 

p]xTRA Sponge Cake. 
Wliites of 14 eggs. 
Yolks of only V. 
One pound best white sugar stirred in the yolks after thej 



334 SPONGE CAKE KOLL JELLY FOR CAKE. 

are well beaten. Add the whites, and lastly stir in very lightlj 
half a pound of sifted flour. Beat very little after putting in 
the flour. Bake quickly. — Mrs. D. C. K. 

Sponge Cake Roll. 

6 eggs. 

1^ teacups flour. 

1 teacup powdei'ed sugar. 

Rind and juice of a lemon. 
Beat the eggs separately and very light. Do not beat the 
batter much after adding the flour, which must be done last of 
all. Get a square baking-pan, butter it, and pour one-half the 
batter in, reserving the rest for a second layer. Have ready a 
nice damp towel, lay the cake on it when taken out of the pan ; 
spread over the cake, jam or currant jelly ; roll it up whilst 
damp, and when firmly set put it in a place to dry. It is good 
eaten with sauce, when for a dinner dish, or it can be cut in 
slices and eaten as small cakes. — Mrs. M. C 

Sponge Roll. 

4 cupfuls of sugar. 

4 cupfuls of flour. 

1 dozen eggs. 
Mix awS for sponge cake. Bake in thin sheets and spread on 
stewed apples, or any kind of fruit, a little sweetened ; roll the 
sheets with the top on the outside. Serve with rich wine saace. 
—Mrs. Col. S. 

Jelly for Cake. 
1 lemon bruised and strained. 
1 cupful sugar. 
1 large apple. 
1 egg. 
Boat the egg and mash the apple fine, grate the lemon peel, 
then mix all together ; put into a can or cup and set into a pot 



ANOTHER FELLING FOR CAKE JELLT CAKE. 335 

of water. Let boil until it is cooked, and use as you would for 
common jelly cake. — Mrs. W. McF. 

Another Filling for Cake. 

Dissolve one-half cake of chocolate in one teacup of cream or 
milk, and let it cool slowly ; then take it off the fire and stir in 
the well-beaten whites of three eggs mixed with one pound of 
sugar. Let it cool, stirring all the time till you find tnat it 
will harden when cool. 

Spread between the cakes while it is still soft. — Mrs. E. 

a G. 

Jelly Cake. 

Beat 8 eggs very light. 
Cream ^ pound butter, 
f pound flour, 
f pound sugar well beaten. 
1 teaspoonful tartaric acid. 
1 teaspoonful of soda. 
Stir these in when ready to bake. Bake in thin pans, and 
put on jelly while warm. — Mrs. tT. L. 

Lemon Jelly Cake. 
Bake sponge-cake batter (by recipe given) in jelly-cake pans. 
Beat with three eggs, two cupfuls sugar, butter size of an egg, 
melted, and juice and grated rind of two lemons. Stir over a 
slow fire until it boils, then spread between the layers of cake. 
Ice with lemon icing, or sift over powdered sugar. — Mrs. S. T. 

Jelly Cake. 

8 eggs. 

The weight of 4 in flour. 

The weight of 6 in sugar. 
To be baked in flat tins. 

For the jelly : one-quarter pound butter, one-half pound 
sugar, yolks of three eggs, juice and grated rind of one lemon. 



336 LEMON JELLY CAKE— ROLLED JELLY CAXE. 

To be put in a saucepan and allowed to come to a boil. Then 
the three whites, beaten to a stiff froth, must be stirred in and 
the saucepan returned to the fire until it boils up. Spread 
between layers of cake. — Mrs. E. C. G. 

Lemon Jelly Cake. 
l>ake as for the orange cake. For the jelly: take the juice 
and rind of three lemons, one pound sugar, one-quarter pound 
butter, six eggs ; beat together; scald as you do custard. When 
cool, it must be thick-spread between the cakes ; ice the top. — 
Mrs. C O. 

Rolled Jelly Cake. 
3 eggs. 

1 teacup of sugar. 
1 teacup of flour. 
Beat the yolks of the eggs till light, then add the sugar ; con- 
tinue beating for some time, then add the whites beaten to a 
stitf froth ; next put in the flour, a little at a time. Bake in a 
long pan, well greased ; when done turn out on bread-board, 
then cover the top with jelly and roll while warm, and slice as 
needed. — Mrs. A. H. 

Rolled tTelly Cake. 

1 cupful sugar. 

1 tables})oonful of butter. 

1^ cupful of flour. 

|- cupful of milk. 

1 egg. 
Two teaspoonfuls of baking powder sifted with the flour. Bake 
in a lai-ge sheet, and when done, spread on the jelly and cut the 
sheets in strips three or four inches wide and roll up. If 
instead of jelly a sauce is made and spread between the layers 
of cake, it may be eaten as a cream-pie and furnish a very nice 
dessert. For the sauce, beat together one egg, one teaspoouful 
of corn-stai'ch, or one tablespoonful flour and two tablespoonfuls 



FILLING FOK JELLT CAKE — MAEBLK CAKE. 3e37 

of sugar. Stir into a half-pint of milk and boil until it forms 
a good custard. Remove from the fire and flavor with vanilla. — 
Mrs. M. 

Filling for Jelly Cake. 
Whites of two eggs, beaten to a froth. 
2 cupfuls of sugar. 
Juice and grated peel of 2 oranges. 
Put this between the layers, and on top the cakes. — Mrs. 

a c. 

Oranges cut fine, and sweetened and mixed with grated cocoa- 
nut, also chocolate, is used for filling jelly cake. Sponge cake 
is better than the soda recipe. — 3Irs. G. C 

Marble Cake. 

Weigh and make a pound cake ; add a spoonful of yeast, 
take one-third part of the batter and add to it two teaspoonfuls 
of cinnamon, two teaspoonfuls of mace, one teaspoonful of cloves, 
one teaspoonful of nutmeg, finely ground. 

Put in your pan, first a layer of the plain batter, then a layer 
of the spiced, finishing with the plain. The batter will make 
three layers of plain and two of spiced. It bakes in beautiful 
layers.— Jfrs. C. L. T. 

Marble or Spiced Cake. 
Make up a pound cake and add two teaspoonfuls of yeast- 
powder. Take one-third part of the batter and add to it two 
teaspoonfuls of cinnamon and mace each, one teaspoonful of 
cloves and allspice each, one nutmeg finely powdered. Then 
grease a pan and put in first a layer of the plain batter, then_ 
the spiced, alternately, till you have it full, finishing with the 
plain. Bake as a jiound cake. — Mrs. C. V. McG. 

Marble Cake. Light Part. 
3 cupfuls sugar. 
1 cui)ful butter. 
29 



B38 MA_RBLE CAKE. 

1 cupful sour cream. 
6 cupfuls flour. 
Whites of 8 eggs. 

1 teaspoonful soda. 

Dark Part. 

2 cupfuls brown sugar. 
1 cupful molasses. 

1 cupful sour cream. 
1 cupful butter. 
5 cupfuls flour. 
1 teaspoonful soda. 
Yolks of 8 eggs. 
1 whole egg. 
1 wine-glassful wine. 
Mixed spices. 
Put alternately layers of each kind in two-pound moulds. 

Ma/rhle Cake. Light Part. 
1 cupful white sugar. 
^ cupful butter. 
^ cupful buttermilk. 
Whites of 3 eggs. 

1 teaspoonful cream tartar. 
^ teaspoonful soda. 

2 cupfuls flour. 

Dark Part. 
^ cupful brown sugar. 
\ cupful butter. 
^ cupful molasses. 
^ cupful milk. 
^ nutmeg. 

1 teaspoonful cinnamon. 
^ teaspoonful allspice. 

2 cupfuls flour. 



MASBLE OB BISMARCK CAKE. 339 

^ teaspoonful soda. 
1 teaspoonful cream tartar. 
Yolks of 3 eggs. 
Put in the mould, alternately, tablespoonfuls of ligLc and dark 
hatter.— Mrs. B. C. K. 

Marble or Bismarck Cake. 
3 cupfuls white sugar. 
1 cupful butter. 

1 cupful sour cream, or buttermilk 
5 cupfuls flour. 
Whites of 8 eggs. 
1 small spoonful soda. 
This is for the white batter. 

Dark Salter. 

2 cupfuls coffee sugar. 

1 cupful molasses. 

1 cupful sour cream. 

1 cupful butter. 

5 cupfuls flour. 

1 teaspoonful soda. 

Yolks of 8 eggs, and a whole one. 

1 wine-glassful mixed spices, finely powdered. 
Put in the pan, in alternate layers of light and dark batter. 
Bake quickly, like sponge cake. Ice and ornament with choco 
late drops. This fills a two-pound mould. 

Rose or Clouded Cake. 
12 eggs, leaving out the whites of 3. 
1 pound flour. 

1 pound sugar, 
f pound butter. 

2 small teaspoonfuls cream tartar, 

2 small teaspoonfuls powdered alum. 
1 small teaspoonful soda. 



340 SPICE CAKE — CREAM CAKE. 

2 small teaspoonfuls cochineal, dissolved in ^ cupful boiling 
water. 

Having dissolved the alum, soda, and cream tartar, mix with 
the cochineal. Stir these ingredients in nearly one-third of the 
batter. Pour into the cake mould a layer of white batter, and 
a layer of red batter, alternately, beginning and ending with 
^rhite ; three layers of white and two of red. This is an orna- 
mental cake to cut for baskets. 

Spice Cake. 

Yolks of 4 eggs. 

Mix 2^ teaspoonfuls yeast powder in 2^ cupfuls flour. 

1 cupful brown sugar. 

•^ cupful syrup. 

■^ cupful butter, must be melted after being measured. 

Stir with the sugar 2^ teaspoonfuls powdered cloves. 

1 teaspoonful powdered cinnamon. 

1 teaspoonful powdered allspice. 
The spices must be put in the flour, the syrup added after 
the sugar and butter are stirred together, then the eggs and 
milk, and lastly the flour. Mix the above alternately, in your 
pans, after having them buttered. — Jifrs. W. 

Cream Cake. 

2 cupfuls of sugar. 

3 cupfuls of flour. 
■^ cupful of butter. 
3 eggs. 

1 cupful of sour milk. 

1 teaspoonful of soda. 

2 teaspoonfuls of cream tartar. 

Dissolve the soda in the milk, melt the butter and add it tu 
the eggs. Add the sugar and cream tartar to the flour. Pour 
it all together in shallow pans that have been well greased 
Bake twenty minutes. 



CREAM CAKE. CREAM FOR SAME. 541 

While baking the above, get one pint of sweet milk, one cup- 
ful of sugar, one cup of flour, butter one-half size of an egg. If 
you use cream instead of milk, you can omit butter. Break 
two eggs into the sugar, beat awhile, then add flour and beat 
thoroughly. Have the milk on the fire, and as soon as it boils, 
stir the mixture in it, after thinning it Avith some of the milk 
until it is like paste ; cook until it is like stiff starch. Season 
freely with vanilla when cold, and spread it between the cakes 
as jelly cake is made. 

Grated cocoanut can be used instead, by preparing as fol- 
lows : one large cocoanut grated, two pounds of loaf sugar. 
Pour the milk from the nut on the sugar ; boil it two or three 
minutes, first mixing in the whites of three eggs ; if not soft 
enough, add some sweet milk. Take it ofi" the fire, stir in the 
grated cocoanut, and spread between the cakes. — Mrs. 'T. 1^. G-. 

Cream Calm. 

2 cupfuls of sugar. 

1 cupful of sweet milk. 

3 cupfuls of flour. 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 

4 eggs. 

■^ teaspoouful of soda. 
1 teaspoonful of cream tartar. 
Bake in four jelly pans. 

Cream fok the Same. 

2 cu{)fuls of sugar. 

^ pint of sweet milk. 

^ cupful of flour. 

1 egg. 
Heat the milk to boiling heat, beat the egg and sxigar to- 
gether ; take a little milk, and make a smooth paste with the 
flour, and stir into the sugar and egg, then stir all into the 



342 CAPITAL CAKE A NICE CUP CAKE. 

milk. Let it boil until thick, then spread between cakes. — 
Mrs. A. H. 

Capitai. Cake. {Ddiciozis.) 
1 po\ind of sugar. 

4 cupfuls of flour, after being sifted. 
1 cupful of butter. 

1 cupful of morning's milk. 
6 eggs beaten light. 

2 teaspoonfuls of cream tartar, sifted in the flour. 

1 teaspoonful of soda dissolved in the milk. Flavor with 
lemon or nutmeg. — Mrs. M. 

Cup Cake. 

5 cupfuls of flour. 

3 cupfuls of sugar. 

1^ cupfuls of butter. 

As much fruit as you like. 
1 teaspoonful of soda dissolved in a cupfiil of milk. 
3 eggs. 
1 nutmeg. 

1 wine-glass wine and brandy mixed. 
Mix as pound cake. — Mrs. «7". TF! H. 

Cup Cake. 

1 cupful of butter. 

2 cupfuls of sugar. 
2^ cupfuls of flour. 
^ cupful of milk. 

5 eggs, beaten separately, 

1 teaspoonful yeast powder. — Mus M. W. 

A Nice Cup Cake. 

6 eggs. 

4 cupfuls of flour. 



A DELICIOUS CAKE — CAKE. 343 

3 cupfuls of sugar. 
1 cupful of butter. 
1 cupful of milk. 
1 teaspoouful cream of tartar. 
■^ teaspoonful of soda. 
Season witli mace and nutmeg. Bake in cups or little tin 
pans. — Mrs. Wm. C. R. 

A Delicious Cake. 
2^ pounds flour. 
2 pounds butter. 
24 eggs, yolks and whites. 
12 ounces almonds. 

2 tablespoonfuls rose water, in which the almonds shovild be 
beaten. 

2 wine-glasses of French brandy. 

2 heaping teaspoonfuls beaten mace, and a butter-plate of 
preserved lemon-peel. — L. T. 

Delicioits Cake. 

2 cupfuls of sugar. 
1 cupful of butter. 

1 cupful of milk. 

3 cupfuls of flour, after being sifted. 
3 eggs. 

2 tablespoonfuls baking powder. 

Bake in jelly-cake pans, and between each layer put fruit jelly, 
icing of chocolate and cocoanut each. This quantity will bake 
five thin cakes. — J\frs. McG, 

Cake. 
1 quart of flour, well dried. 
1 cupful of butter. 

3 cupfuls granulated sugar — it is better than ])ulverized. 
6 eggs, woU beaten. 



344 CAKE — CUSTARD CAKE. 

Lemon, or other seasoning. 

1 light measure of both Horsford's powders, or, if preferred, 
a small teaspoonful of soda, and ^ cup of buttermilk. 

Cream of tartar takes the place of buttermilk, when used 
with soda. — 3frs. A. 

Cake witli sauce.) 
5 eggs. 

1 pound of flour. 
|- pound of sugar. 
^ pound butter. 

1 cup of cream. 

2 teaspoonfuls cream of tartar. 

1 teaspoonful of soda. — 3frs. G. S. 

CaKK that CANNOT FaIL. 

1 pound sugar. 
1 pound flour, 
f pound butter. 
8 eggs. 

1 teacup of sweet cream. 

2 teaspoonfuls cream of tartar, sifted in the flour. 

1 teaspoonful of soda dissolved in a little water, and put in 
the cream. Bake in pans or cups. — Mrs. P. 

Custard Cake. 
^ cupful butter. 

2 cupfuls sugar. 

7 eggs, leaving out 4 yolks. 

3 cupfuls flour. 

1 cujjful of milk. 

2 teaspoonfuls baking powder. Bake in shallow pans. 
For the custard : one quart of milk, let come to a boil, 

Bweiiten it ; take the four yolks and three tablespooufuls of corn- 
starch, mix with a little of the milk cold, and then stir it gi-ad- 



MBS. G alt's cake — KETTLE CAKE. 345 

ually into the boiling milk, and continue to stir until done. 
Add a piece of butter the size of a walnut ; flavor with vanilla, 
and put between the cakes. — Mrs. C. JB. 

Mrs. Galt's Cake. 
Whites of 13 eggs, yolks of 3. 
f pound of butter. 
1 pound of flour. 
1 pound of sugar. Season to taste. — Miss E. T. 

Norfolk Cake. 

Beat to a cream : 
1 teacup of butter. 
6 eggs. 

3 teacups of sugar, 
i^ 1 teacup of cream. 

4 teacups of flour. 
^ nutmeg. 

1 wine-glass of brandy. 

1 pound raisins. 

1 teaspoonful of soda, dissolved in cream. — Mrs. Dr. S. 

Kettle Cake. 
Have a large, nice brass kettle ready. Set it on a few warm 
embers, not with any fire ; put into the kettle : 
12 eggs. 
1 pound sugar. 
1 pound butter. 
A light pound of flour. 
1 teaspoonful of mace. 
Hind and juice of a lai-ge lemon. 
Stir all the materials rapidly, and with a strong, large iron 
spoon or a long butter-ladle. When it is light, which will be 
in about three-quarters of an hour, put it in a mould and bake 
as common pound cake. It is good with 



346 paeson's cake — euggles' cake. 

2 pounds currants. 

2 pounds raisins. 

^ pound citron. 

1 glass of brandy. — Mrs. M. G. C. 

Parson's Cake. 
5 eggs. 

1 large teacupful brown sugar. 
4 cupfuls flour. 
3 cupfuls molasses. 
1^ cupful butter. 
Ginger and spice to the taste. 

1 teaspoonful soda, dissolved in a little milk. Bake. — Mrs 
D. R. 

Risen Cake. 

1^ pound flour. 
1 pound sugar. 
9 ounces butter. 

3 gills milk. 
\ pint yeast. 

4 eggs. 

"Work the butter and sugar together. Put the yeast in the 
flour and one-half the butter and sugar the overnight ; then 
mix the milk in, and beat it some time. Set it where it will 
rise. In the morning, when well risen, mix in the remainder 
of the butter and sugar, and the eggs, also some currants or rai- 
sins, or both, if you wish them, a little nutmeg or mace, and 
beat all well together for some time. Then put it in the pan 
and set it to rise again. It must be very light before you put 
it in the ovtn. It requires some time to soak. — Mrs. I. IT. 

RuGGLEs' Cake. 
6 eo;or.s. 

1^ cupful butter. 
3 cupfuls sugar. 



TIPSY CAKE NAPLES BISCUIT. 347 

4 cupful s flour. 
1 cupful milk. 
1 teaspoonful soda. 
Season to taste. — Mrs. R. 

Tipsy Cake. 
Soak sponge cake in wine and "water. Make a custard of six 
eggs to one quart of milk, and oour over it. Reserve the 
whites, beat to stiff froth, to put over last. — Mrs. Dr. S. 

Velvet Cake. 

Half a pound of butter, one pound sugar ; creamed together. 
One teacup of cold water, with a level teaspoonful of soda 
dissolved in it, and poui'ed in the butter and sugar, two tea- 
spoonfuls cream of tartar, sifted in one pound of flour. 

Mix the flour with butter, sugar, and water, and beat well. 
Take five eggs, beat yolks and whites separately, and then beat 
them together three minutes. Season as you like, and mix 
with the batter. Beat considerably and bake half an hour. — 
Mrs. A. B. 

Whortleberry Cake. 

6 eggs, beaten separately. 

1 pound sugar. 

\ pound butter. 

1 quart flour. 

\ pint sifted meal. 

1 teaspoonful soda. 

A little mace and cinnamon. 
After mixing, stir in one quart of the berries, so as not to 
mash them, having previously dusted them with flour. Mix 
the soda with one-half pint of cream or milk. — Mrs. A. P. 

Naples Biscuit. 
1 pouad flour. 
1 pound sugar. 



348 ICING —COLD ICING. 

12 whites, and 10 yolks of eggs. 
2 glasses wine. 
They should gradually harden in the oven till quite crisp, ana 
be frequently turned in the pans. 

Icing. 
1^ pound sugar. 
-^ pint water. 
Boil until it ropes. Have ready the whites of seven eggs 
well beaten, pour the syrup into a bowl, and beat until milk- 
warm. Then pub in tlie eggs, and beat for an hour. — Jfrs. TV. 

Hot Icing. 

Dissolve one pint powdered sugar in two or three table- 
spoonfuls water, and boil. 

Beat the whites of four eggs to a strong frotli ; add the hot 
sugar, stirring in till smooth. Bc^at about two minutes and fla- 
vor to your taste, spread on the cake, and put in a hot place. — 

3Irs. P. 

Icing. 

Whites of two eggs, beaten to a froth. 

One pound of sugar, dissolved and boiled in a small teacup of 
water. 

Then strain the sugar and pour it into the egg, beating it 
hard until cool. 

Add one-half teaspoonful lemon acid. — L. D. L. 

Boiled Icing. 

1^ pound cut sugar, or double refined. 

1 teacup of water. 

6 whites of eggs. 

Boil the sugar to candy height ; when nearly cold put in eggs. 

—Miss E. P. 

Cold Icing. 

Whites of 3 eggs. 
1 pound sugar. 



ICING FOE CAKE — BOILED ICING. 349 

Beat very light and season with vanilla or lemon. After 
beating very lightly, add the white of another egg and it will 
give a pretty gloss upon the icing. — Jfiss JS. JP. 

Icing for Cake. 
Take three pounds cut or best quality of loaf sugar, dissolve 
it in a small (Quantity of water, boil to candy height or until it 
ropes. Have ready the whites of thirteen eggs well beaten. 
When the sugar is boiled sufficiently, pour it into a deep bowl, 
occasionally stirring it gently, until you can just bear your fin- 
ger in it ; then add the beaten egg all at once, beating it very 
hard for half an hour, when it is ready for use. Sti-ain into the 
icing the juice of one lemon into which the peel has been grated, 
for half an hour.— itfrs. F. C. W. 

Icing. 
Break into a dish the whites of four eggs. Whip in by 
degrees one and one-quarter pound of the finest loaf sugar, 
Dowdered and sifted. Beat till stiti' and smooth, then add the 
strained juice of a large lemon with a few drops of oil of lemon, 
and beat again ; in all beat half an hour. If too stilF add a lit- 
tle more white of egg. Some persons put it on with a knife, 
but it is far smoother and more ev'enly sjDread over the cake if 
put on with a large spoon. Dip up a spoonful of the icing and 
pour it from the spoon over the cake. Pour it over the top of 
the cake and it will diffuse itself down the sides. To color icing 
yellow, steep the rind of an orange or lemon in the lemon juice 
before straining it into the icing. To make it pink, put in 
strawberry or cranberry juice with the lemon juice. — Mrs. S. T. 

Icing for Cakes. 
Whites of six eggs to one pound sugar, or one egg to three 
teaspoonfuls of sugar. — Mrs. Dr. JT. 

Boiled Icing. 
One and one-fourth pound loaf sugar, added to one teacup 



350 SOFT GINGER CAKE — GINGER LOAF. 

of water and boiled to a thick syrup. Then strain it through 
thin muslin, and, while hot, stir into it the whites of three eggs 
beaten stiff. Then beat in the strained juice of a lemon and 
season with a little oil of lemon. If too thin, add a little sugar ; 
if too stiff, add a little more white of egg. — Mrs. S. T. 

Soft Ginger Cake. 
1 cupful butter. 
1 cupful sugar. 
1 cupful molasses. 

1 cupful sour cream. 

3 eggs. 

\ tablespoonful of soda. 

2 tablespoonfuls of ginger. 

Flour until the spoon will almost stand alone. Cloves and 
cinnamon to taste. (This is very good.) — Mrs. X. F. 

Soft Gingerbread. 

3 eggs. 

1 teacup butter. 
\ teacup ginger. 
1 teacup molasses. 
3 teacups sifted flour. 
1 large tablespoonful of ginger. 

1 small teaspoonful of soda, dissolved in \ teacup of sour 
cream. — Mrs. McG. 

Ginger Loaf. 
6 eggs. 

4 cupfuls molasses. 
2 cupfuls of butter. 
6 cupfuls flour. 

1 teaspoonful soda. 

1 tablespoonful ginger. 

Cinnamon to your taste. — Mrs. P. Wl 



bisen gingerbread — molasses cake. 361 

Risen Gingerbread. 

2 pounds flour. 

1 pound nice brown sugar. 

1 pound butter. 

6 eggs. 

•^ pint molasses. 

3 ounces ginger. 
Bake in a large cake. — Mrs. A. T. 

Lightened Gingerbread. 
1^ pound of floui". 
\ pound butter. 
\ pound sugar. 
6 eggs. 

6 races of white ginger. 
1 teaspoonful soda. 
1 pint molasses. 
To be baked in tins or a pan. — Mrs. I. H. 

Ginger Cup Cake. 
3 eggs. 

1 cupful molasses. 
1 cupful sugar. 

1 cupful butter (half lard will answer). 

^ teaspoonful soda, dissolved in 1 tablespoonful buttermilk. 
1 tablespoonful ground ginger. 
2^ cupfuls flour. 
Mix as other cake. Some like allspice. — Mrs. H. JJ. 

Molasses Cake. 
5 light cupfuls flour. 
5 eggs. 

2 cupfuls siigar. 
2 cupfuls molasses. 
1 cupful butter. 



A62 MOLASSES CAKE — BLACK, OR MOLASSES OAKE. 

1 cupful cream, with one teaspoonful soda. 

2 tablespoonfuLs cream of tartar. 
2 teaspoonfuls ground ginger. 

All well beaten together. Bake as pound cake. — Miss JE. T 

Molasses Cake. 
1 teaspoonful soda. 
1 pound butter. 
1 pound sugar. 
1 pint molasses. 
1 tablespoonful ginger, 
enough to make it as thick as ordinary cake. — Misa 

Molasses Pound Cake. 
■^ pound butter. 
2 cupful s sugar. 
2 cupfuls molasses. 
6 cupfuls flour. 
1 cupful cream. 
4 eggs. 
Some cloves and nutmeg; add lemon to taste. 

—3Irs. Br. 8. 

Black, or Molasses Cake. 
i quart flour. 
-' eggs. 

i pint molasses. 
■r pound butter. 
.' tablespoonfuls ginger, 
i teaspoonful soda, dissolved in 1 teacup sour milk. 

—Mrs. T. C. 



SMALL CAKES DROP CAKE. 353 



SMALL CAKES. 



Albany Cakes. 
l-J- pound flour. 
1^ pound brown sugar. 
1^ pound butter. 
I tablespoonful lard. 
4 tablespoonfuls powdered cinnamon. 
1 teaspoonful soda, dissolved in a cup of milk- 
R I on extra flour very thin. Dip the face of each cake in 
granulated sugar. Bake slowly in greased pans. — 3frs. H. Ji. 

Scotch Cakes. ( Yery nice. ) 

2 pounds flour. 
1^ pound sugar. 
1 pound butter, 

6 eggs, beaten together. 

3 nutmegs,— Jfrs. P. 3IcG. 

Sweet Crackers. 
4 eggs. 

4 cupfuls sugar, 
^ pound butter, 
1 teaspoonful soda. 
1 cupful sour cream. 

Pounded cinnamon and grated nutmeg for flavoring. 
Sufficient flour for a soft dough. 
Roll thin and cut it with tin shapes, and bake quickly. — 

Drop Cake, 
6 eggs. 

1 pound sugar, 
f pound butter, 

1 teaspoonful soda, in 1 cupful sour cream. 

2 teaspoonfids cream of tartar, in 1 quart flour. 

—Mrs. S. 



354. cream cakes — maeguerite8. 

Cream Cakes. 

Beat up one egg, add to it half a cupful sugar, half a cupfv.l flour, 
ruixing thoroughly. While this is being done, put on the fire 
half a pint milk ; when it boils, stir in the eggs, sugar, and 
flour mixture, then add a piece of butter, half the size of an egg. 
Stir all the time until it is of the desired consistency, which will 
be in f few minutes. When cold, add, and thoroughly mix, one 
and one-half teaspoonful vanilla. 

For the cake : put one tumblerful of water to boil, and then 
add one-quarter pound butter ; when melted, put in one and 
one-half tumblerful of flour. Stir in, mixing thoroughly, being 
careful not to burn it. It is sufficiently cooked by the time it 
is thoroughly mixed. Remove from the fire, and when cool, 
stir in five unbeaten eggs, mixing one at a time. It will then 
be the consistency of stifi" paste. Drop on buttered tins, and 
bake in a quick oven fifteen or twenty minutes. Cut the side 
and insert the cream. — Mrs. H. M. 

Marguerites. 
Cream together one pound of sugar and one pound of butter 
very light. Beat the yolks of six eggs, sift one and one-half 
pound of flour into the eggs, butter, and sugar ; one teaspoonful 
of mixed spices, one-half glassful of rose water. Stir the whole 
well, and roll it on the board till it is half an inch thick ; cut 
in cakes and bake quickly. When cold, spread the surface of 
each cake with marmalade. Beat the whites of four eggs light, 
and add enough powdered sugar to make them as thick as icing. 
Flavor it with lemon, and put it on top of each cake. Put the 
cakes in the oven, and as soon as they are of a pale brown, take 
them out. — Miss M. C. L. 

Marguerites. 
Two pounds of flour, one pound and five ounces of sugar, one 
pound and five ounces of butter, eight eggs. Rub together the 
butter and sugar till perfectly liglit; beat the eggs till very 



MARGTJEKITES, OK JELLY CAKES — SHREWSBUEY CAKE. 355 

tbiok, leaving out the whites of six eggs for the icing. Sift tht 
flour into the eggs, butter and sugar, one teaspoonful of mixed 
spices (cinnamon, mace, and nutmeg), half a glass of rose water. 
Stir the whole well together, and roll it on your paste-board 
about half an inch thick ; then cut out the cakes and bake 
them a few minutes. When cold, spread the surface of each 
cake with marmalade or jam. Beat the whites, left out, very 
light, and add enough powdered sugar to make them as thick 
as icing. Season with lemon or vanilla, and with a spoon put it 
on each cake. Put the cakes in the oven to brown. — JTj's. S. 

Marguerites, or Jelly Cakes. 

Rub together one pound sugar, one pound of butter, till per- 
fectly light. Beat six eggs till very thick, leaving out the 
whites. Sift one and a half pound of dour into the eggs, 
butter, and sugai-, one teaspoonful of mixed spices (cinnamon, 
mace, and nutmeg), and half a glass of rose water. Stir the 
whole well, and loll it on the paste-board about one-quarter 
inch thick. Then cut out the cakes and bake them a few 
minutes. When cold, spread the surface of each cake with 
peach jam or any marmalade. Beat the whites of four eggs 
very light, and add enough powdered sugar to make them as 
thick as icing. Flavor it with leinon or rose water and with a 
spoon put it on each cake, high in the centi-e. Put the cakes 
in the oven, and as soon as they are of a pale brown take them 
out. — Mrs. I. H. 

Shrewsbury Cake, 

1 pound flour. 
12 ounces sugar. 
12 ounces butter. 

2 eggs. 

Add two tablespoonfuls rose water, or two teaspoonfuls beaten 
mace. Roll and bake in tin sheets or in an oven. — M^ '^^ 



356 macaroons — jumbles. 

Macakoons. 
Blanca and pound one pound of sweet almonds with a little 
rose water ; whip the whites of seven eggs to a froth ; add one 
pound sugar ; beat some time. Add the almonds ; mix well. 
Drop on buttered paper, sift sugar over them, and bake 
quickly. 

Jumbles. 
1 pound flour. 
|- pound butter. 
1 pound sugar. 
3 eggs. Flavor with mace. 
A delicious cake. — Mrs. A. T. 

Jackson Jumbles. 
3 teacups sugar. 
1 teacup lard. 
6 teacups flour. 

1 teaspoonful soda in one cup of sour cream. 
3 eggs. 

The grated rind of one or two lemons, or a little grated nut- 
meg. Roll out and bake. — Mrs. H. K 

Jumbles. 
3 pounds flour. 

2 pounds sugar. 
1 pound butter. 
8 eggs. 

1 teaspoonful soda. 

A little milk if the eggs are not enough. — Mrs. M. E. 

Jumhles. 
Rub one pound butter into one and a quarter pound floiir ; 
beat four eggs with one and a quarter pound sugar, very light ; 
mix well with the flour. Add one nutmeg and a glass of 
brandy. — Mrs. J. W. 



coffee cake — strawberry cakes. 357 

Coffee Cake. 

1 teacup of molasses. 

1 cupful of good liquid coffee. 

1 cupful sugar. 

1 cupful butter. 

4 cupfuls flour. 

1 teaspoonful of cinnamon. 

1 teaspoonful cloves. 

1 teaspoonful cream tartar. 

^ teaspoonful soda. 

1 pound of raisins. 

^ pound of citron. 

3 eggs. 

■^ wine-glass of brandy. — Mrs, «/] J?! ^, 

i^ Cinnamon Cakes. 

1 pound butter. 

2 pounds flour. 

1 pound sugar. 

Six eggs, leaving out two yolks, which you will beat up 
with a little rose water, and, with a feather, spread on the 
cakes ; then strew cinnamon and sugar on them, and blanched 
almonds. Lay them on tins, and bake them in a slow oven. — 

Mrs. I. m 

Cinnamon Cakes. 
2 quarts flour. 
6 or 8 eggs, the yolks only. 
\ pound butter. 
\ pound sugar. 
1 spoonful cinnamon. — Mrs. Dr. R, IS. 

Stkawberry Cakes. 

2 pounds flour. 

1 pound loaf sugar. 



358 HOLMOROFT CAKE COOKIES. 

1 pound butter. 
6 eggs. 

Mace and a little wine to flavor. 
Bake quickly.— J/rs. A. T. 

HoLMCROFT Cake. 

1 coffee-cup of sugar. 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter not melted. 

1 teacup of sweet inilk. 
Whites of 2 eggs, or 1 whole egg. 

2 coffee-cups of flour. — Mrs. N. 

Nothings. 
Take one egg, two tablespoonfuls cream, butter the size of a 
walnut, flour to make the dough very stiff; work it well and 
roll it very thin. Cut the size of a saucer. Fry in lard and 
sprinkle with powdered sugar. — Mrs. T. C. 

Sugar Cakes. 
Mix four cupfuls of sugar with eight cupfuls of flour and one 
large spoonful of coilander-seed ; add one cupful of butter, one 
cupful of lard, six eggs, two tablespoonfuls of sour cream oi 
milk, one teaspoouful of soda. — Mrs. Dr. S. 

Cookies. 
3 eggs. 

1 cupful of butter or lard. 

2 cupfuls of sugar. 

6 cupfuls of sifted flour. 
1 nutmeg. 

1 teaspoonful of soda. 

2 teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar, sifted with the flour. 
Cream the butter with one cup of the sugar, beat the eggs 

separately and put into the yolks the remaining cup of sugar ; 
add this to the butter, and put in whites and flour last. RoU 
thin and bake quickly. — Mrs. F. F. F. 



gloucestek oakes — ceullers. 359 

Gloucester Cakes. 
5 eggs. 

1 quart of milk. 
1 quart of flour. 

A piece of butter the size of an egg. 
Beat the eggs very light; mix into them the flour and udlk 
alternately, and beating it until perfectly smooth, add a little 
salt. Melt the butter and stir it into the batter. Bake in 
small moulds. — Mrs. JT. D. 

Tea Cakes. 

2 quarts of flour. 

1 small teacup of lard. 
1 small teacup of butter. 

3 cupfuls of sugar. 
^ 3 eggs. 

1 cupful of cream (sour is best). 

2 small teaspoonfuls of soda. 

1 grated nutmeg. 

Roll out half an inch thick, and bake in a moderate oven. — 
Mrs. F. G. W. 

Crui.lehs. 

2 quarts of flour. 
2 cups of sugar. 
6 eggs. 

2 spoonfuls of soda. 

4 spoonfuls cream of tartar. 

4 tablespoonfuls of melted butter. 

A little salt. 

Rub the cream tartar, flour, and sugar together; wet with 

sweet milk quite soft. Have the lard several inches deep in 

the pot or pan you cook iu, and when boiling lay in enough 

crullers just to cover the bottom. They must be quite thin, and 



360 TEA CAKES A DELICATE CAKE FOR TEA. 

•when brown on the lower side, turn over with a fork. They 
are more convenient to turn with a hole in the centre. — Mrs. B. 

Tea Cakes. 

2 quarts of floiir. 

3 cupfuls of sugar. 
1 cup of butter. 

5 eggs. 

1 teaspoonful of soda dissolved in 2 tablespoonfuls of sweet 

milk. 

2 teaspoonfuls cream of tartar. 

Season with lemon or nutmeg. — Mrs. 3. 

Delicate Tea Cakes. 
Whites of 3 eggs beaten to a froth, 
1 cupful of pulverized sugar. 
■^ cupful of sweet milk. 
1 teaspoonful cream of tartar. 
\ teaspoonful of soda. 
2^ cupfuls of flour. 
1 teaspoonful of almonds. 
■^ cupful of melted butter. — Mrs. R. 

Tartaric Cakes. 
Beat the yolks of three eggs, the whites whipped to a froth, 
three full cups of brown sugar, half a pound of butter, one 
spoonful lard, one and a half pound of flour, leaving two spoon- 
fuls to roll with. Mix all well together. Dissolve one tea- 
spoonful soda and three-quarters teaspoonful tartaric acid in a 
Kttle cream. First mix the soda with the dough, then the acid. 
Season with mace oi wine. They will rise very much. — Mrs. D. 

A Delicate Cake for Tea. 
Beat the yolks and whites of two eggs separately ; to the 
yolks add two coffee-cups of sugar, and two cupfuls of sweet 



LEMON JUMBLES DELICIOUS SMALL CAKES. 361 

milk; then four tablespoonfuls butter creamed; next the 
white of the eggs, lastly, four cupfuLs of iiour with one teaspoon- 
ful soda, two teaspoonfuls cream of tartar, sifted in the flour. 
Bake in shallow pans. — Mrs. C. V. Mc G. 

Lemon Jumbles. 
1 egg. 

1 teacupful sugar. 
•^ teacupful of butter. 
3 teaspoonfuls milk. 

1 teaspoonful cream of tartar. 
^ teaspoonful of soda. 

2 small lemons ; juice of two and grated rind of one. 
Mix rather stiff. Roll and cut out with a cake-cutter. — 

Mrs. W. 

BONNEFEADAS. 

Make a rich paste with one quart flour ; roll it out very thin, 
first dividing it in two pieces, spread it with butter, washed and 
ci'eamed, " A " sugar, and pulverized cinnamon. Roll it up, 
cut it in pieces one inch wide ; put them in a pan with the 
whole side down ; sprinkle over them sugar, butter, and cinna- 
mon. Bake quickly. Take them out of the pan while hot. — 
Mrs. Col. A. L. 

Delkious Small Cakes. 
Yolks of 6 eggs. 
1 light pound flour. 
\ pound butter. 
1 spoonful lard. 
1 pound sugar. 
These cakes are better without soda and of the consistency 
of Shrewsbury cakes. Beat the whites of three eggs to a strong 
froth ; weigh one pound of the best " A " sugar, put it in a tin 
can with three wine-glasses of water. Let it boil slowly, till it be- 
gins to rope, or rather, when a little of it will cool on a plate, 

?A 



362 W'AFKKB — GINGER CAKES. 

like it would begin to candy. Then pour the boiling sugar 
gradually to the white of egg ; beat it well till it begins to thick- 
en and to cool somewhat, then beat into the icing two tablespoon- 
fuls of powdered cinnamon, and ice over the little cakes, using 
a stiff feather for the purpose. You can add the other unbeaten 
whites of eggs, with an addition of sugar, to make more small 
cakes. — Mrs. M. G. C. 

Wafers. 
4 ounces butter. 

4 ounces sugar. 

5 ounces flour. 
4 eggs. 

1 glass of wine. 

A little mace and nutmeg.— J/rs. Dr. tf. 

Wafers. 
4 spoonfuls flour. 
4 spoonfuls sugar. 
4 spoonfuls cream. 
1 spoonful butter. 
Orange peel, mace, and nutmeg. 
Prepare as for pound cake. Bake in wafei- irons, rolling them 
while hot. 

Dimples. 
jJeat the whites of three eggs and three quarters pound of 
sugar till well mixed. Stir in blanched almonds, cut fine. 
Drop on tins and bake in a cool oven. — Mrs. A. C 

Ginger Cakes. 
1 teacup of butter. 
1 teacup brown sugar.. 
1 teacup sour milk. 
7 cupfuls fiuur. 



GINGER SNAPB GINGEE BUNKS. 363 

1-^ teacup molasses. 

1^ teaspoonfuls soda. — Mrs. C B. 

Ginger Snaps. 
1 pint of molasses. 
1 teacup brown sugar. 
1 teacup of butter and lard mixed. 
Beat the molasses till it looks light, then put it in the sugar ; 
next pour in the hot butter and lard, one egg beaten light, one 
teacup ground ginger. 

Have the mixture milk-warm ; work flour in briskly. Roll 
them and bake quickly. — Miss N. S. L. 

Ginger Cakes. 

1 dozen eggs. 

2 pounds of flour. 
1 pound butter. 

1 pound sugar. 

1 pint molasses. 

1 small teacup of ginger. 

1 teaspoonful of soda. — Mrs. Col. S. 

Cheap Ginger Cakes. 

3 pints of flour. 

1 large spoonful of lard. 

2 large spoonfuls of ginger. 

1 dessertspoonful of soda in a pint of molasses. 

—Mrs. H. S. 
Ginger Bunns. 
f pound butter, ^ pound sugar, rubbed to a cream. 
•^ nutmeg. 

1 tablespoonful ginger. 
Stir all together, then add two eggs well beaten, stir in one 
pound of flour and moisten with sweet milk, until it can be 
easily worked. Roll out and bake in quick oven. — Mrs. H. D. 



364 MOLASSES CAKES DROP GINGER CAKES. 

MoiASSES Cakes. 
7 cupfuls of floui". 
2 cupfuls of molasses. 
1 cupful sugar. 
1 cupful of butter. 
1 cupful of sour milk. 

1 even tablespoonful of soda. 

2 tablespoonfuls of ginger. 

Let the dough be as soft as you can conveniently handle it 
Bake in a modei-ately quick oven. — Mrs. M. L. 

Spice Nuts. 
1 pound sugar. 
1 pound flour. 
1 pint molasses. Mix well, 
f pound butter. 
3 tablespoonfuls ginger. 
1 tablesi^oonful allspice. 
1 tablespoonful cinnamon. 
Bake in small drops or cakes. — Mrs. Dr. J'. 

Ginger Snaps. 
1 cupful butter. 
1 tablespoonful ginger. 

1 teaspoonful soda, in 1 pint boiling molasses. 
Stir and let it cool ; add sifted flour enough to make a doushj 
roi) thin and bake.— il[/rs. >iS'. IB. 

Drop Ginger Cakes. 

1 pound butter, cream it as for ])ound cake. 

2 packed quarts flour. 
1 pound sugar. 

1 pint molasses, 
5 eggs. 

2 tablespoonfuls ginger. — Mrs. N. 



PUDDINGS PLUM PUDDING. 365 

PUDDINGS. 

The directions given for cake apply likewise to puddings. 
Always beat the whites and yolks of the eggs separately and 
very light, and add the whites just before baking or boiling. 
All puddings (except those risen with yeast), should be baked 
immediately after the ingredients are mixed. Thick yellow 
earthenware dishes are better than tin for baking puddings, 
on several accounts. One is that the pudding, to be good, must 
be baked principally from the bottom, and tin burns more easily 
than earthenware. Another reason is, tliat the acids employed 
in some puddings corrode and discolor tin. Garnish the pud- 
ding with sifted white sugar, and with candied or preserved 
orange or lonon peel. 

In boiling a pudding, cold water should never be added. 
Keep a kettle of hot water to replenish the water in the pot as 
it boils away. As soon as the pudding ia done, remove it from 
the boiling water. A decrease in heat whilst cooking, makes 
boiled pudding sodden, and makes baked pudding fall. The 
best sauce for a boiled pudding is cold sauce made of the frothed 
whites of eorrrs, butter, sugar, nutmes;, and a little French 
brandy, while for a baked pudding, a rich, boiled wine sauce is 
best. 

Plum Pudding. 

3 dozen eggs. 

3 pounds baker's bread, stale, and grated fine. 

3 pounds suet. 

3 pounds brown sugar. 

1 pound sliced citron. 

3 pounds currants. 

4 pounds seeded raisins. 

^ ounce nutmeg, and the same of mace, cloves, and cinnamon. 

Half pini wine. 

Half pint French cooking brandy. 



.S66 PLUM PUDDING. 

Mix auJ divide into six parts. Tie each part in a twilled 
cotton cloth, put them in boiling water, and let them boil four 
hours. Then hang them in the air to dry a day or two. Keep 
them in a cool, dry place. 

When you wish to \ise one, it must be boiled an hour before 
dinner. Serve with rich sauce. It will keep six months or a 
year.— Jfrs. T. M. C. 

Plum Puddhuf. 

10 eggs. 

1 pound chopped suet. 

1 pound seeded raisins. 

1 pound currants. 

1 pound stale bread crumbs. 

\ pound citron. 

1 nutmeg. 

1 wine-glassful wine. 

1 wine-glassful brandy. 

\ povmd brown sugar. 
Beat the eggs light, add the sugar and spices, stir in the 
suet and bread crumbs, add the fruit by degrees, then the wine 
and brandy. Pour into a well-floured bag, leaving a third as 
much room as the mixture occupies, for swelling. Put into 
a pot of boiling water and boil four hours. Dip the bag into 
cold water when ready to turn out the pudding, to prevent it 
from sticking. — Mrs. E. B. 

Plum Pudding. 

At sunrise, sift a quart of the best flour ; rub into it an 
Irish potato mashed, free from lumps. Put in it a teaspoonful 
of salt, and a half teacup of yeast. Add six eggs, beaten 
separately, and enough water to make a soft dough. Knead 
half an hour without intermission. In winter, set it in a warm 
place, in summer set it in a cool place to rise. If dinner is 
wanted at two o'clock, knead into this at one o'clock, half 



RICH PLUM PUDDING ENGLISH PLUM PUDDING. 367 

poiind of butter, two pounds of stoned raisins, cut up, and a 
grated nutmeg. Work vei-y little, just enough to mix. Wet 
a thick cloth, flour it and tie it loosely that the pudding may 
have room to rise. Put it in a kettle of milk-warm water, 
heating slowly until it boils. Boil one hour. Serve with wine 
sauce. — Mrs. S. T. 

E.i(jH Plum Pudding. 

Nine eggs beaten to a froth. 

Add flour sufficient to make a thick batter, free from himps. 
Then add one pint of new milk and beat well. Afterwards add 
the following ingredients, in small quantities at a time, keeping 
it well stirred. 

Two pounds stoned raisins, two pounds currants, well washed, 
picked, and dried. One-quarter pound bitter almonds, blanched 
and divided ; three-quarters pound brown sugar ; three-quarters 
pound beef suet, choppt;d tine ; one nutmeg, grated fine ; one 
teaspoonful of ground allspice, the same of mace and cinna- 
mon. 

This pudding should be mixed several days before cooking, 
then well beaten, and more milk should be added, if required. 
Make this into two puddings, put in cotton bags and boil four 
hours. By changing the bags, and hanging in a cool, dry place, 
tliey will keep six months and be the better for it. Steam and 
serve with sauce made as follows : 

One cup of sugar, one of butter. Beat well together: 
Break an egg in and mix well. Add a tablespoonful of wine 
or brandy, and serve immediately. — Mrs. F. 

English Plum Pudding. 
1 pound of Btale bread grated. 
1 pound currants. 
1 pound sugar. 

1 ])Ound of suet chopped as fine as flour. 
\ of a pound of raisins, and the same of citron. 



368 CHRISTMAS PLUM PUDDING PLUM PUDDLVG. 

When ready to boil, wet the above witli ten eggs, wv\. 
beaten, two wine-glasses of wine and the same of brandy. 
Grate the rinds of two lemons, pare and chop them and beat all 
well together. Then dip a strong cloth in boiling water and 
wring it dry. Lay it on a waiter, greasing well witli butter. 
Put it in a large bowl and pour the pudding in, putting two 
sticks in the cloth across each other, and tying below the sticks. 
Have the water boiling and throw in the pudding as soon as 
tied. Put a plate at the bottom of the pot and boil four 
hours. — Ilrs. Br. X 

Chhistmas Plum Pudding. 

Half a loaf of bread (grated). 

1 pound currants. 

2 pounds stoned raisins. 
1 pound chopped suet. 

G eggs, and 2 pieces of citron cut up. 
Beat the yolks of the eggs with two cups of flour and some 
milk, then stir in the other ingredients, adding a little salt and 
ginger. If too stitf, add more milk. The water must be boil- 
ing when the pudding is jnit in. It will take two hours to 
cook.— Mrs. 3f. E. J. B. 

Plum Pudding. 

8 eggs (the yolks and whites beaten very light). 

1 pint of suet chopped fine. 

1 pint of sweet milk. 

\\ pint stoned raisins, rubbed in flour. 

1 quart of bread crumbs rubbed till very fine. 

Half pint citron sliced thin. 

1 teacup of light brown sugar. 
Grease and flour your mould, pour your puddir.g in, boil two 
hours, and eat Avith rich boiled sauce, made of sugar, butter, 
wine, and nutmeg. — 3Irs. B. C. C 



KECIPE FOK A SIMPLER PLUM PUDDING. ov\) 

Recipe for a simpler Plum Pudding. 
3 cupfuls flour. 
1 cupful raisins. 
1 cupful brown sugar. 
1 cupful buttermilk. 
^ cup molasses. 

1 cup of suet, or half a cup of butter. 

2 eggs. 

1 teaspoonful soda. 
Boil and eat with sauce. — Mrs. E. P. 

Economical Plum Pudding. 
4 cupfuls flour. 
1^ cup of suet. 

1 cupful milk. 

2 cupfuls raisins. 

1 cupful molasses. 

2 eggs, and 1 teaspoonful of soda. 
Boil four hours. — Mrs. Ij. 

Anotlier Recipe for the Same. 
One bowl of raisins, one of currants ; one of bread crumbs ; 
one bowl of eggs ; one of brown sugar ; one of suet ; citron at 
pleasure. Boil four hours. — Mrs. L, 

Original Pudding. 

Reserve a portion of light dovigh intended for breakfast. 
Set it in a cool place, and four hours before dinner, roll thin, 
without kneading. Sprinkle thickly over it, flrst, a layer of 
sliced citron, then a layer of seeded raisins. Roll up and lay 
on a buttered bread-pan till very light. Then either boil in a 
cloth, prepared by wetting first and then flouring (the pudding 
being allowed room for rising in tliis cloth), or sot the pan in 
till- stove and bake. In the latter case, after it becomes a Iigh< 
brown, it must be covei-ed with a buttered paper. 
16^ 



370 STEAMED PUDDING — AMHERST PtJDDINO. 

Dough for French rolls or muffin bread is especially adapted 
to this kind of pudding. — Mrs. ,S. T. 

Steamed Pudding. 
\ pound of seeded raisins. 
4 eggs. 

2 cupfuls of sugar. 

3 cupfuls of flour. 

1 cupful of sour cream. 

1 teaspoonful of soda. 

2 teaspoonfuls of cream tartar. 

Let it steam two hours. Have the water boiling fast, aud 
don't open till it has boiled two hours. — Mrs. Dr. J. 

Boiled Pudding. 

One pound of flour, twelve ounces of butter, eight ounces ol 
sugar, twelve ounces of fruit (either dried cherines or two kinds 
of preserves). A little mace and wine. 

Boil like a plum pudding. 

Sauce for the Same. 
One pint of cream, large spoonful of butter, one glass of wine. 
Season to the taste. Let it cook, but not come to a boil. — Mrs. 
A. F. 

Another Sauce. 
Cream half a pound of butter ; work into it six tablespoon- 
fuls of sugar; beat iu one egg, add a wine-glass of wine or 
brandy, and half a grated nutmeg. Set it on the fire, and aa 
soon as it boils, serve it for the table. — Mis. F 



Amherst Pudding. 



3 cupfuls of flour. 
1 cupful of suet. 
1 cupful of milk. 



BOILED PUDDING OF ACID FRUIT — TROV PUDDING. 371 

1 cupful of molasses. 

2 cupfuls of raisins. 
1 teaspoonful of salt. 

1 teaspoonful of cloves and the same of cinnamon. 
4- teaspoonful of soda, dissolved in milk. 
To be boiled three hours in a coarse bag, and eaten with wine 
sauce. — Mrs. W. 

Boiled Pudding of Acid Fruit. 

1 quart of flour (or the weight in stale bread). 

2 eggs. 

1 pint of milk. 

1 teaspoonful of salt. 

•|- pound of dried fruit. 
If apples are used, plump them out by pouring boiling water 
on them, and let them cool before using them. Season with 
mace and nutmeg, and eat with sauce. — 3Irs. T. 

Cherry Pudding. 
3 cupfuls of flour. 
2 cupfuls of fruit. 
1 cupful of molasses. 

1 cupful of milk. 

2 teaspoonfuls of cream tartar. 

1 teaspoonful of soda, put in the flour. 
1 cupful of suet. 
Mix well, put in a buttered mould, and boil three hours and u 
half — J/ws E. T. 

Troy Pudding. 
1 cupful of milk. 
1 cupful of molasses. 
\ cupful of currants. 
\ cupful of butter. 

1 teaspoonful of baking soda, dissolved in the milk. 
1 teaspoonful of ginger. 
1 teaspoonful of ground cloves. 



37" swi<:et potato roll — boiled pudding. 

Enough flour to make it as stiff as soft gingerbread. Put ii 
in a mould, and steam four liouis. If no steamer is at hand, 
tie the mould in a clotli and boil four hours. 

Sauce: One egg (frothed), one cupful of powdered sugar, 
one cupful of cream or milk, boiled with a small piece of butter. 
Add wine, if you like. — Mrs. W. C R. 

Sweet Potato Roll. 
Prepare pastry as for cherry roll. Spread it out, and cover 
it with layers of boiled sweet potatoes, thoroughly mashed. 
Pour over it melted butter and sugar, highly flavored with 
lemon. Roll it up, boil in a bag, and serve with butter and 
sugar sauce. — Mrs. Dr. J. F. G. 

Boiled Sweetmeat Pudding. 
Twelve ounces flour and eight ounces butter rolled in a 
square sheet of paste. Spread over the whole sweetmeats (or 
stewed fruit, if more convenient). Roll closely and boil in a 
cloth. Pour sauce over it. — Mrs. T. 

Boiled Bread Pudding. 

Pour one quart milk over a loaf of grated stale bread. Let 
it stand till near dimier time. Then beat six eggs very light 
and add them to the bread and milk, together with a little flour, 
to make the whole stick. Flour the bag and boil. Eat with 
sauce. — Mrs. tf. A. B. 

Boiled Bread Padding. {Economical.) 

Soak one pound stale bread in enough milk to make a pud- 
ding. When soft, beat it up with two eggs and three table- 
spoonfuls flour. Pour in a large lump of butter, melted. Put 
in any sort of fruit you like, and then boil. — Miss E. T. 

Boiled Pudding. 
One quart milk, four eggs, lard size of turkey's egg. Floiil 
enough to make a batter for a teac ip of fruit. 
Boil and eat with sauce. — Mrs. R. 



paste foe boiled dumplings suet pudding. 373 

Paste for Boiled Dumplings. 
One quart flour, three good-sized Irish potatoes (boiled and 
mashed). One tablespoonful butter, and the same of lard. 
One teaspoonful soda, and two teaspoonfuls cream of tartar. - 

3Irs. E. W. 

Apple Dumplings. 

Three pints of flour, one and one-half pint of milk, one large 
tablespoonful of butter, one egg. As many apples (chopped 
fine) as the batter will take. Boil two hours in a well-floured 
cloth. 

The water should be boiling when the dumplings are dropped 
in, and it should be kept boiling all the while, else they will be 
heavy. Eat with sauce. — Mrs. G. N'. 

Boiled Molasses Pudding. 
i^ • 1 cupful molasses. 

1 cupful sweet milk. 
4 cupfuls sifted flour. 
1 cupful stoned raisins. 
4- capful butter. 
1 teaspoonful soda. 
1 teaspoonful salt. 
Boil or steam in a pudding mould. Eat with wine sauce. — 
Mrs. Mc G. 

Suet Pudding. 

1 quart floui-. 

2 teacups suet, chopped fine. 
1 teaspoonful salt. 

Mix the suet with two-thirds of the flour, reserving the rest 
of the flovir to roll the dough in. Put in a cloth and boil ouo 
Lour. — Mrs. JB. 

Suet Pudding. 
1 pint milk. 

3 eggs, well beaten. 



374 SUET DUMPLINGS — FRUIT PUDDING. 

^ pound finely chopped suet. 
1 teaspoonful powdered ginger. 
1 teaspoonful salt. 
Add flour gradually, till you have made it into a thick batter. 
Boil two or three hours, and serve with hot sauce. — Mrs. P. W. 

Suet Dumplings. 

Rub into one quart flour, one-half pound beef suet, free of 
skin, and chopped very fine. Add a little salt, one teaspoonful 
of soda dissolved in buttermilk, one pound fruit, either apples, 
dried chen-ies, or dried peaches cut very fine, and sufllicient 
water to make it into dough. Make it into dumplings half au 
inch thick, boil two or three hours, and eat with a sauce made 
of butter, sugar, and wine. — 3frs. G. S. 

Eve's Pudding. 

^ pound finely grated bread crumbs. 
^ pound finely chopped apples. 
4 eggs. 

6 ounces sugar. 

2 ounces citron, and lemon peel. 
•^ pound finely chopped suet. 
^ pound currants. 
A little nutmeg. 
Butter the mould well, and boil three hours. — Mrs. II. T. S. 

Fruit Pudding. 

4 eggs. 
1 pint milk. 
4 tablespoonfuls flour. 
1 tablespoonful butter. 
Applcb or peaches cut in thin slices, and dropped in the bat 
ter. Serve with sauce. — Mrs. Dr. S. 



baked peach dtimplings^-oherry pudding. 376 

Baked Peach Dumplings. 
Make up one quait of flour as for soda biscuit. Roll like 
pastry, putting on bits of lard or butter several times. Make 
out the dough like biscuit, roll thin and on each piece put two 
or three pieces of canned peaches. (Peach preserves or marma- 
lade would answer also.) Add a teaspoonful of butter, and (if 
you use canned peaches) a tablespoonful of sugar to each dump- 
ling. Draw the edges firmly together and place them in a deep, 
large baking dish. Put sugar and butter between, and pour, 
over all, the syrup from the can. (Use a three-pound can for 
this quantity of flour.) Bake quickly and serve with or with- 
out sauce. A good substitute for the old-fashioned "pot peach 
pie." Baked apple dumplings may be made in the same way. 
—Mrs. S. T. 

Currant Pudding. 
1 pound currants. 
1 teaspoonful soda. 
1 teaspoonful salt. 
Nutmeg to suit the taste. Citron will improve the flavor. 
Eat with wine sauce. — 3Irs. Dr. E. 

Raspberry Pudding. 

One pint flour, six eggs, yolks and whites beaten separately. 
Mix the eggs with a pint of' milk and one cupful of butter. 
Into this stir the flour. Make the berries very sweet. Mash 
them and stir them into the batter. Bake in a dish ami serve 
with sauce. — Mrs. C. C 

Cherry Pudding. 
10 eggs. 

1 cupful melted butter. 
1 quart milk, make in a thick batter. 
1 pound dried cherries (stoned). — Mrs. Dr. E. 



376 apple pudding — dried apple pudding. 

Apple Pudding. 
1 pound apples stewed very dry. 
1 pound sugar. 
^ pound butter. 
Yolks of 7 eggs. 
Rind and juice two lemons. 
Bake in a paste. — Jfrs. Dr. E. 

Delicious Apple Pudding. 
Three eggs, one cupful sugar, one cupful melted butter, one 
cupful sweet milk, one and one-third cupful of apples, one tea- 
spoonful essence of lemon; baked in pastry. This quantity 
will make two plates. — Mrs. M. M. D. 

Apple Pudding. 
Boil and strain twelve apples as for sauce. Stir in one-quar- 
ter pound butter, and the same of sugar. When cold, add four 
eggs, well beaten. Pour into a baking-dish thickly strewn with 
crumbs, and strew crumbs on the top. When done, grate white 
sugar on top. — Mrs. M. 

Apple Pudding. 
1 quart chopped apples. 
1 pint flour. 
1 pint new milk. 
3 eggs. 
Bake quickly after mixing, and eat with sauce. — Miss E. T. 

Dried Apple Pudding. 
Wash ten ounces of apples well in warm water. Boil them 
in a quart of water. When soft, add ten ounces of sugar, eight 
ounces of butter, the juice and gi-ated rind of two lemons. 
When cold and ready to bake, add five beaten eggs. Bake with 
or without pastry. Ten ounces of apples will make a commor 
sized pudding. — Mrs. R. 



baked apple koll apple charlotte. 377 

Baked Apple Roll. 
Make a paste, roll out thin. Spread over it apples cut in 
thin slices. Sprinkle nice sugar, and put bits of butter all over 
this. Roll it up, place it in a baking-pan. Pour in water ant* 
put sugar and butter around it, grating over all a nutmeg. 
Any other kind of fruit can be made into the same kind of roll. 
—Mrs. S. T. 

Apple Meringue, with custard. 
1 quart apple-sauce. 
Juice of a lemon. 
Whites of 4 eggs. 
1 large cup of sugar. 
Strain apple-sauce through a colander. Put it in the dish in 
which it is to be served. Beat the whites to a stiff froth, add- 
ing a little sugar. Cover the apples with the frosting. Set in 
thie oven to brown, and eat with whipped cream or soft custard. 
—Mrs. G. W. P. 

Apple Meringue. 
Stew the apples until well done and smooth. Sweeten to 
the taste ; add the rind of a grated lemon. Beat the whites of 
five eggs to a stiff froth ; add to them a teacup powdei-ed sugar, 
a little rose water, juice of a lemon, or any seasoning preferred. 
Put the fruit in a flat dish, and put the egg on with a spoon. 
Brown a few minutes. Add a little butter to the apples while 
hot.— Mrs. G. 3fc G. 

Apple Custard Pudding. 
Stew six sour apples in half a cup of water. Riib through a 
sieve and sweeten. Make a custard of three pints milk, six 
eggs, four tablespoonfuls sugar. Put the apples in a pudding- 
dish, pour the custard over them, and bake slowly half an hour. 
—Mrs. M. B. B. 

Apple Charlotte. 

Equal quantities stewed apples and bread crumbs, one spoon 

32 



378 APPLE CUSTAED OKANGE PUDDENG. 

ful butter, three eggs beaten up and stirred in at the last, just 
before baking. Spoonful wine, cinnamon, nutmeg, lemon peel, 
and plenty of brown sugar. Stir together, and bake quite a 
long time. — Mrs. I. H. 

Apple Custakd. 
1^ pint stewed apples. 
\ pound sugar. 
Set them away til ,old. 

Beat six eggs vety light, and stir in gradimlly a quart sweet 
milk. Mix all together, pour in a deep dish, and bake twenty 
minutes. — Mrs. F. 

Citron Pudding. 
Yolks of 8 eggs. 
f pound sugar. 
\ pound butter (melted). 
Two tablespoonfuls of cracker soaked in a teacup of new 
milk, and made into a paste with a spoon. A glass of wine, a 
little nutmeg, all well beaten together and poured over sliced 
citron, laid on a rich paste. After baking it, pour over it the 
whites beaten to a stiff froth, sweetened with four tablespoon- 
fuls of powdered sugar, and flavored to the taste. Put it in 
the stove again, and bake a light brown. — Mrs. S. T. 

Citron Pudding. 

Yolks of 12 eggs. 

\ pound butter. 

1 povmd sugar. 
Stir in the butter while warming the eggs. Cut the citron in 
pieces and drop in the mixture. Have a rich paste, and bake in 
a quick oven. — Mrs. IS. 

Orange Pudding. 
Peel and cut five good oranges into thin slices, taking out the 
seed. Pour over them a coffee-cup of white sugar. Let a pinf 



OKANGE PUDDING. 379 

of niilk get boiling hot by setting it in some boiling water. Add 
yolks of three eggs well beaten, one tablespoonful corn starch, 
made smooth with a little milk Stir all the time, and as soon 
as thickened pour over the fruit. Beat the whites to a stiff 
froth, adding a tablespoonful of sugar, spread over the top. Set 
it in the oven a few minutes to harden. Serve either hot or 
cold.— J/rs. E. P. G. 

Orange Pudding. 

Yolks of 16 eggs. 
1 pound powdered sugar. 
1 pound butter, creamed. 
The rinds of two oranges, grated, and the juice of one lemon. 
—Mrs. Dr. T. W. 

Orange Pudding. 
Take skin of a large orange, boil it soft, pound it, and add 
the juice of one orange, with the juice of a lemon, ten eggs, 
one pound butter, one pound sugar ; beat to a cream ; add 
glass of wine, brandy, and rose water. — Mrs. tT. T. G. 

Orange Pudding. 
Pare two oranges, beat very fine, and add half a pound of 
sugar, and half a pound of butter, washed. Beat the yolks of 
sixteen eggs, and add to them the other ingredhuits, well mixed 
and beaten together. Bake in a puff-paste. For eight or ten 
persons. — Mrs. F. 

Orange Pudding. 
Put two oranges and two lemons into five quarts of water. 
Boil them till the rinds are tender, then take them out, slice 
them thin, and take out the seed. Put a pound of sugar into 
a pint of water. When it boils, slice into it twelve pippins, 
sliced and cored. Lay in the lemons and oranges ; stew them 
tender. Cover the dish with puff-paste. Put in the fruit care 



380 LEMON PUDDING. 

fully, in alternate layers. Pour over the syrup, put some slips 
of paste across it, and bake it. — Mrs. E. 

Lemon Pudding. 
\ pound sugar. 

\ pound butter, well creamed. 
Yolks of 8 eggs. 
Pour this mixture into a rich crust of pastry, after adding 
the grated rind of two lemons. Then partially bake it. Bea< 
the whites very stiff, and add a spoonful of sugar for each egg 
Then add the juice of two lemons, pour this meringue over the 
pudding and brown it quickly. — Mrs. I. D. 

Lemon Pudding. 
■^ pound butter, 
f pound sugar. 
6 eggs. 
^ pint milk. 
3 lemons, juice and rind. — Miss E. TF. 

Lemon Pudding. 
6 eggs. 

f pound sugar. 
\ pound butter. 
Juice of two lemons. 
Pour on the butter boiling hot. — Mrs. E. JB. 

Lemon Pudding. 

6 eggs. 

7 tablespoonfuls sugar 
1 tablespoonful flour. 

1 tablespoouf\il biitter. 
1 pint of buttermilk. 
Season with extract of lemon, beat well and bake in a crust. 
—Mrs. A. C. 



lemon meringue cocoanut pudding. 381 

Lemon M:6ringue. 
One pint of bread crumbs soaked in a quart of new iiiilk. 

1 cvip of sugar. 
Yolks of 4 eggs. 
Grated rind of 1 lemon. 

Beat these ingredients light and bake as custard. Then 
spread on fruit jelly or stewed apples (fresh). Froth the whites 
with four tablespoonfuls of sugar and juice of the lemon. 
Spread over the top and brown. — Mrs. Col. S. 

Lemon 3Ieringue. 
The rind of two small lemons and the juice of one. 

2 cupfuls sugar. 
■^ cup butter. 

■^ cup cream (or sweet milk). 
>- 6 eggs, beaten separately. 

Leave out the whites of two eggs, which must be mixed with 
sugar and put on top of the pudding just before it is done. 
Bake in a rich paste. — Mrs. H. 

Almond Pudding. 
Blanch a pound of almonds, pound them with rose water to 
prevent their oiling; mix with them four crackers, pounded, 
six eggs, a pint of milk or cream, a pound of sugar, half a 
pound of butter, four tablespoonfuls of wine. Bake on a 
crust.— Jfrs. Br. T. W.' 

Cocoanut Pudding. 
Two grated cocoanuts. 
1 pound sugar. 
^ pound butter. 
8 eggs, leaving out 4 whites. 
Beat the eggs separately and to the yolks add the butter, 
sugar, cocoanut, and whites. Add a little wine or brandy, if 
you like. Bake in tins lined with pastry. — 3Irs. D. R. 



382 COCOANUT PUDDING CHOCOLATE PUDDINCK 

Cocoanut Pudding. 
One-half pound butter, one-half pound sugar, a whole cocoa- 
nut grated, five eggs beaten to a frotli, leaving out two whites 
Bake in plates with pastry underneath. The oven must not be 
toohot.— Jfrs. I. H. 

Cocoanut Pudding. 
Stir together, 

■^ pound butter. 
^ pound sugar. 
A glass of wine. 

6 eggs (beaten light). 

When all these ingredients have been stirred together till 
light, add a pound of grated cocoanut, mixed with a little 
stale cake. — Mrs. E. T. 

Cocoanut Pudding. 

\ pound sugar. 

^ pound butter. 

1^ po\ind grated cocoanut. 

^ pint cream. 

7 whole eggs, or 9 whites and 2 yolks. 
1 lemon. 

Half a nutmeg. 
Stir butter and sugar as for cake. Beat eggs well. Bake 
some time. — 3frs. E. G. 

Cocoanut Pudding. 
One grated cocoanut, one pound of sugar, one quarter of a 
pound of melted butter, and six eggs. — Mrs. 3f. ^S'. C. 

Chocolate Pudding. 
Scrape fine three ounces of chocolate. Add to it a toaspoonful 
of powdered nutmeg and one of cinnamon. Put it in a sauce- 
pan, and pour over it a qiiart of rich milk, stirring it well. 
Cover it and let it come to a boil. Then remove the lid, stii 



CHOCOLATE PUDDING — QUEEN OF PUDDINGS. 383 

up the chocolate from the bottom and press out the lumps. 
When dissolved and smooth, put it on the fire again. Next stir 
in, gradually and while it is boiling hot, half a pound white 
sugar. Set it away to cool. Beat six or eight eggs very light. 
Four into the pan of chocolate when quite cold. Stir the whole 
very hard. Put it in an oven and bake well. It will bake best 
by being put in a pan of boiling water. Eat cold. — Itlrs. J. S. 

F., Jr. 

Ghocolate Pudding. 

1 quart milk. 

3 eggs. 
Sugar to taste. 

2 tablespoonfiils corn-starch, dissolved in milk. 

4 tablespoonfuls chorolate 

Set the milk on the fire, and just before it boils put in the 
eggs, sugar, and corn-starch. Let it boil about a minute, then 
take it off the fire and add the chocolate. 

Chocolate Meringue. 
One quart milk and yolks of four eggs, made into custard. 
Three tablespoonfuls powdered chocolate, put into a cup of 
warm water. One tablespoonful of corn-starch. Sweeten to 
your taste and let all boil togetlier. Then put it in a baking- 
dish, and when done, cover with a meringue of the whites of 
eggs and white sugar. Put in the oven again to brown, a few 

minutes.- — Mrs. S. 

Caromel Pudding. 

Cream together one cupful of butter, and one of sugar. Add 
five eggs (yolks and whites beaten separately) and one cupful 
of preserved damsons, removing the seed. Beat all together 
very light and season with a teaspoonful vanilla. Bake on pas- 
try.— Jfrs. A. JD. 

Queen op Puddings. 

Take slices of sponge cake and spread with preserves or jelly. 
Place ti\em in a deep dish. Make a custard with one quart of 



384 QUEEN OF PUDDraGS. 

milk and yolks of four eggs. Sweeten and season to the taste 
and pour over the cake. Beat the whites stiff', adding five or 
six spoonfuls of sugar and seasoning with lemon. Spread this 
over the top of the pudding and bake a very light brown. — 3Irs. 
M.D. 

Queen of Puddings. 

1 pint bread crumbs. 

1 quart milk. 

1-^ cupful of sugar. 

Yolks of 4 eggs, well beaten. 

1 teacup of butter, well creamed. 

Grated rind of one lemon. 
Bake until done, but not watery. Whip the whites of the 
four eggs (above mentioned) very stiff and beat into a teacup 
of sugar, into which has been strained the juice of the lemon 
aforesaid. Spread over the top of the pudding, after it has 
slightly cooked, a layer of jelly or sweetmeats. Then pour over 
it the dressing of eggs, sugar, and lemon, and set it in the oven 
to brown. — Mrs. B. «7! 13. 

Queen of Puddings. 

\^ c\\\ih\\ white sugar. 

2 cupfuls fine dry bread crumbs. 

Yolks of 5 eggs. 

1 tablespoonful of butter, flavored to taste. 

1 quart fi'esh, rich milk. 

\ cup jelly or jam. 
Rub the butter into a cupful of the sugar, and cream these 
together, with the yolks beaten very light. The bread crumbs 
soaked in the milk come next, then the seasoning. Bake this 
in a large butter di.sh, but two-thirds full, till the custard is 
" set." Spread over the top of this a layer of jam or jelly and 
cover this with a meringue made of the whipped whites and the 
half cujjful of sugar. Bake till the meringue begins to color. 
- Mrs. D. C. K. 



QUEEN OF PUDDINGS TAPIOCA PUDDING. 385 

Queen of Puddings. 
Saturate the crumbs of a loaf of bread with a quart of rich 
milk. Add to this the yolks of six eggs, two tablespoonfuls of 
butter, three-quarters pound of sugar. Beat well together, sea- 
son to taste, and when well stirred, put it on to bake. When 
nearly done, spread over it a layer of fruit jam or jelly and wlutes 
of the eggs well beaten. Sift sugar on top and bake. — ]\£rs. J. 
V. G. 

Meringue Pudding or Queen of Puddings. 

Fill a baking dish within one and a half inch of the top with 
slices of sponge cake, buttered slightly on both sides, scattering 
between the slices, seeded raisins (about half a pound). Over 
this pour a custard made of a quart of milk, the yolks of eight 
eggs, sweetened to the taste. 

As soon as it has baked a light brown, make an icing of the 
eight whites and put it on top. Set again in the oven to brown 
a little. Eat with sauce of butter and sugar. — Mrs. R. P. 

Tapioca Pudding. 

4 tablespoonfuls of tapioca. 

1 quart of milk. 

The yolks of 4 eggs. 

Whites of 2 eggs. 

1 tablespoonful of sugar. 
Soak the tapioca over night or several hours in a little water, 
boil the milk and turn over the tapioca and when it is blood- 
warm, add the sugar and the eggs well beaten, flavor the pud- 
ding with lemon or rose water. Bake it about an hour. After 
it has cooled a little add the two remaining whites of the eggs 
and one-half pound of white sugar beaten together for frosting. 
This serves as sauce for the pudding. — Mrs. A. P. 

Tapioca Pudding. 
Wash a teacup of tapioca in warm water and let it stand 
half an hour. Then stir in a custard made of a quart of milk, 



386 TAPIOCA PUDDING — SNOW PUDDING. 

four eggs, a small piece of butter, and sugar to taste. Bake 
about an hour and a quarter. Stir two separate times from the 
bottom, whilst baking. — 3Irs. Dr. S. 

Tapioca JPudding with Ap2)les. 

Soak a cupful of tapioca in three cupfuls of water, four or 
tive hours, where it will be warm, but not cook. Peel and core 
six apples and stew till tender. Put them in a pudding-dish, 
filling the holes (from which the cores were extracted) with 
sugar and nutmeg or grated lemon peel. Then pour over them 
the soaked tapioca, slightly sweetened and bake thi-ee-quarters 
of an hour. To be eaten cold with sugar and cream. — Mrs. 
E. W. 

Snow Pudding. 

Let a box of gelatine stand one hour in a pint of cold water. 
Then add two pints of boiling water, four cupfuls of crushed 
sugar, the juice of four lemons and the rind of the same, pared 
thin. (The latter must, however, be taken out when the pud- 
ding begins to congeal.) 

Beat the whites of six eggs to a stiff froth, adding two table- 
spoonfuls of sugar. Then beat all together till it becomes a 
stifi' froth. 

Make the six yolks into a custard flavored with vanilla or 
nutmeg and pour over the pudding after it has been turned out 
of the mould.— Mrs. B. J. B. 

iSnow Pudding. 

Dissolve one-half box gelatire in one pint hot water. Let it 
Btand long enough to cool a little but not to congeal. Tlieu add 
the whites of three eggs, juico of two lemons and sugar to taste. 
Beat all to a stiff froth and pour into moulds. Serve with a 
custard made of the yolks of the eggs and a pint :f milk season- 
ed with vanilla.— Jfrs. Dr. P. C. 



SNOW PUDDING JELLY ROLL. 387 

Snow Pudding. 
Soak a half box of gelatine in a half pint of cold water, all 
night. In the morning, add the grated rind of two lemons 
and the juice of one, three cupfuls of M'hite sugar and a half 
pint of boiling water. Strain into a deep vessel and add the 
unbeaten whites of three eggs. Beat constantly for three-quar- 
ters of an hour, then set it in a cool place. With the yolks of 
the eggs, make a pint of custard flavored with vanilla or rose- 
water, to put around the pudding, when congealed. — Mrs. A. B. 

Cake Pudding. 
Take a moderate sized baking-dish, around which lay small 
sponge cakes, split and buttered on both sides. Spread them with 
marmalade or preserves on the inside. Put in the centre of the 
dish pieces of cake buttered and spread with preserves on both 
sides. Leave room for a custard, to be made, seasoned and 
poured over the pudding before baking. Eat hot with hot sauce. 
—Mrs. V.R.I. 

Preserve Pudding. 

1 cupful preserves. 
1 cupful sugar. 
Nearly a cupful butter. 
5 eggs. 
Bake in pastry. — Mrs. E. B. 

Jelly Roll. 

3 eggs. 

1 cupful sugar. 
1 cupful flour. 

1 teaspoonful cream of tartar. 
\ teaspoonful soda, dissolved in milk. 
Bake in pie-pans, spread with acid jelly, roll up in a compact 
form. — Mrs. R. 



388 sweetmeat pudding — tban8pabent pudding. 

Sweetmeat Pudding. 

Yolks of 10 eggs. 

Whites of 2. 

1 pound of sugar. 
Half a pound of butter, beaten with the sugar, and po ired 
over pastry, on which is placed a layer of sweetoeats and a 
layer of some other preserves. Any two kinds of preserves 
may be used. — Mrs. . 

Sweetmeat Puddvng. 

■^ pound of sugai'. 

\ pound of butter. 

Juice and rind of one lemon. 

8 eggs. 
Mix the eggs, well beaten, with the sugar. Melt the butter 
and povxr into the mixture. Line a dish with rich pastry, on 
which lay sweetmeats, damson, or peach preserves, or any other 
kind that may be convenient. On this, place one layer of the 
mixture above mentioned, then another of sweetmeats. Put a 
layer of the mixture on top, and bake. 

Cheese-cake Pudding. 

Y"olks of eight fresh eggs, three-quarters of a pound of good 
brown sugar, and the same of butter, well creamed together. 

Beat the eggs light, mix all the ingredients well ; season with 
nutmeg or extract of lemon ; add a tablespoonful of good brandy 
or rum. Bake in a pastry, in small tins or plates. — Mrs. Dr. 

P. a 

Transparent Pudding. 

8 eggs, beaten very light. 
^ pound of sugar. 
■^ pound of butter. 

Nutmeg, mace, or any spice for flavoring. 
Put it on the fire in a tin pan, stirring constantly till it begin* 



TRANSPARENT PUDDING SAGO PUDDING. 389 

to thicken. When cool, pour it over a rich paste, and bako 
over a moderate fire. Add citron, if you like. — Mrs. Dr. E. 

Transparent Pudding. 
^ pound of sugar. 
^ pound of butter. 
Dessertspoonful of rose water. 
Stir well till light. 
Beat four eggs very light, and add to the other ingredients. 
Butter the baking-dish, line with stale cake, sliced thin, which 
you may cover with sweetmeats of any kind. Pour the mixt- 
ure on, and bake for nearly an hour. — Mrs. I. H. 

Transparent Pudding. 
Yolks of 10 eggs ; whites of 2. 
^ 1 pound of sugar. 

\ pound of butter. 
Season with nutmeg. 
Make pastry, on which put a layer of citron or any other 
fruit. Pour the mixture over it and bake. Beat the remain- 
ing whites to a froth. Add a teacup of powdered sugar, flavor 
to taste, and pour over the top of the pudding after baking. 
Then put it again in the stove, a few minutes, to brown. — 
Mrs. E. 

Arrow-root Pudding. 
Boil a quart of milk and make it into a thick batter with 
arrow-root. Add the yolks of six eggs, half a pound of sugar, 
one-quarter of a pound of butter, half a nutmeg, and a little 
grated lemon peel. Bake it nicely in a pastry. When done, 
stick slips of citron all over the top, and pour over it the whites 
of the six eggs, beaten stift", sweetened with three or four table- 
spoonfuls of sugar, and flavored to the taste. — Mrs. S. T. 

Sago Pudding. 
Boil one cu^jful of sago in a quart of water. Pare apples, put 



'390 8AG0 PUDDING — SIPPET PUDDING. 

them in a dish and stew a little. Pour the sago ovtir them, 
and bake thirty minutes. Sweeten and flavor to the taste. — 
Mrs. A. B. 

Sago Pudding. 
Boil one pint and a half of new milk with four spoonfuls of 
sago, nicely washed and picked. Sweeten to the taste ; flavor 
with lemon peel, cinnamon, and mace. Mix all, and bake slowly 
in a paste. — Mrs. V. P. M. 

Bread Pudding, 
Slice some stale bread, omitting the crust. Butter it moder- 
ately thick. Butter a deep dish, and cover the bottom with 
slices of bread, over which put a layer of any kind of preserved 
fruit. (Acid fruits are best.) Cover all with a light layer of 
brown sugar. Make a rich custard, allowing four eggs to a 
pint of milk. Pour it over the pudding, and bake an hour. 
Grate nutmeg over it, when done. — Mrs. Col. S. 

Custard Pudding. 
Cut thin slices of bread. Butter them, and lay them in a 
baking-dish. Mix a cold custard of three pints of milk, the 
yolks of eight or ten eggs, beaten light ; sweeten to your taste ; 
pour over the bread ; bake, and let it stand to cool. Froth and 
sweeten the whites, pour them over the top of the pudding, and 
then put it in the stove a few minutes more to brown on top. — 
Mrs, R. 

Sippet Pudding. 

Butter a baking-dish, cut slices of light bread very thin, 
buttering them before cutting. Put them in the disb, strewing 
over each separate layer, currants, citron, raisins, and sugar. 
When the dish is full, pour over it an unboiled custard of rwilk 
and eggs, sweetened to the taste. Saturate the bread com- 
pletely with this, then poui- on a glass of brandy and bake a 
light brown. This pudding is very nice made of stale pound oi 
sponge cake instead of light bread.- —Mrs. M. C C 



MRS. SPP:NCE's rUDDING FEUIT PLDDIXG. 391 

Mrs. Spence's Pudding. {Original.) 
One piut grated bread crumbs put into one quart fresh sweet 
milk. Beat the yolks of five eggs very light. Add one tea- 
cup of sugar to them. Stir in the milk and ci'umbs and add 
three-quarters of a pound clipped raisins and one-quarter of a 
pound sliced citron. Season with mace. Bake nicely. 

Whip the whites of the five eggs to a stift' froth. Add one 
teacup pulverized sugar and season with extract of vanilla 
Put this over the pudding and set in the stove again to brown 
it slightly. Serve hot with a i-ich sauce made of sugar and 
butter seasoned with nutmeg and Madeira wine. 

Teacup Pudding. 
T teacup grated bread. 
1 teacup I'aisins. 
i- ' 1 teacup chopped apples. 

1 teacup chopped suet. 
3 eggs. 

] gill of ci-eam. 
Wine glass of brandy. 
Spice and sugar to taste. — Wrs. Dr. J". 

French Pudding. 
Grate one pint stale bread. Pour over it one quart fresh 
milk, yolks of four eggs, rind of one lemon and part of juice, 
one teacup of sugar, piece of butter size of an egg. Mix all 
well, put in a pudding-dish and bake until it looks like custard. 
Then set it to cool, after which spread the top with jelly or pre- 
serves. Beat the whites of the four eggs to a stiff frotli, adding 
the remaining juice of the lemon and thi'ee tablespoonfuls of 
sugar. Spread this on top the preserves, then put the pudding 
again in the oven and bake a light brown. — Mrs. C. 

Fruit Pudding. 
1 pint grated bread crumbs. 
1 pound raisins. 



392 PUDDIKG WITHOUT MILK OR EG iS CKACKEE PUDDING. 

f pound suet chopped fine. 
^ pound sugar. 
•^ pint cbojtped apples. 
Yolks of tiiree eggs, well beaten. 
Pour over the top the whites of the three eggs, frotl .ed and 
sweetened Bake an hour. — Mrs. 

Pudding without Milk or Eggs. 
Put into a buttered baking-dish, alternate layers of grated 
bread, and finely chopped apples seasoned with brown sugar, 
bits of butter and allspice. Pour over it a pint of wine and 
water mixed. Let the top layer be bread crumbs, and bake one 
hour. — Miss N. 

Marrow Pudding. 
Grate a large loaf of bread and pour on the crumbs a pint of 
rich milk, boiling hot. When cold, add four eggs, a i)ound of 
beef mari-ow, >;1 iced thin, a gill of brandy with sugar and nut- 
meg to your taste. Mix all well together and bake it. When 
done stick slices of citron on the top. You may make a boiled 
pudding of this, if you prefer. — 3//-s. E. 

Original Pudding. 

Crumb up four rolls. Pour over them a quart of fresh milk 
8t the breakfast table. A half hour before dinner, beat up 
separately the yolks and whites of six eggs. After beating, 
put them together and stir them up. Take a piece of butter 
the size of a walnut, cut it in bits and throw it on top. 

Sauce. Throw in a bowl, a tablespoonful of flour and a large 
piece of butter. Cream it round and round. Add two teacups 
of sugar, one wine-glass of ight wine, and nutmeg, and boil up. — 
Miss li. /S. 

Cra ker Pcdding. 

Put into a deep dish six or eight large soda crackers. Add a 
large lump of butter and a teacup of sugar. Grate the rind of 



BICE PUDDING. 393 

two lemons and squeeze the juice over the crackers. Then pour 
boiling water all over them, and allow them to stand till they 
have absorbed it and become soft. Beat the yolks and whites 
of three eggs separately. Stir them gently into the crackers. 
Butter a deep dish and pour iu the mixture, baking it a nicp 
brown. If not sweet enough, add sugar to the eggs before mix 
ing them.— illfrs. M. C. C. 

Rice Pudding. 
Boil half a pound of rice in milk, till quite tender. Then 
mash the grains well with a wooden spoon. Add three-quarters 
of a pound of sugar, and the same of melted butter, half a nut- 
meg, six eggs, a gill of wine, and some grated lemon peel. Bake 
it in a paste. For a change, it may be boiled, and eaten with 
butter, sugar, and wine. — Mrs. E. 

Rice Pudding. 
Sweeten three pints of sweet milk, and flavor with lemon or 
vanilla. Put in this a small cupful of raw rice, thoroughly 
washed. Bake, and serve cold. — Mrs. M. S. 

Rir.e Pudding. 
3 cupfuls boiled rice. 
6 eggs. 

1-^ cupful sugar. 
1^ pint milk. 

1 wine-glassful wine and brandy. 
1 tablespoonful melted butter. 
Flavor with nutmeg. — Mrs. Col. S. 

Rice Pudding. 
Boil a cup of rice till nearly done, then add a pint of milk. 
When perfectly done, mash, and, while hot, add half a pound 
of butter, one pound of sugar, six fresh eggs, beaten till light 
17* 



394 KICK PUDDING SWEET POT\TO PUDDING, 

,'Beat the sugar with the eggs.) Season with wine or brandy^ 
and one grated nutmeg. Lemon is another good seasoning for 
it. Put in rich puff paste, and bake till a light brown. — J/j\f 
Br. R. W. W. 

Mice Pudding. 
Boil one cup of rice in one quart of milk. Add six eggs ami 
a small tablespoouful of butter. Sweeten and flavor to the 
taste, and bake. — Mrs. S. 

Irish Potato Pudding. 
1 pound mashed Irish potatoes. 

1 pound sugar. 

2 cupfula butter, well creamed, 
5 eggs, 

1 teacup cream, 
1 wine-glassful brandy. 
Stir the; ingredients thoroughly together. I5ako in pastrj 
without tops, — Mrs. Br. J. F. G. 

Sweet Potato Pudding, 
1 quart grated sweet potatoes. 
10 eggs, well beaten. 

3 cupfuls sugar, 
1 cupful flour. 

1 cupful butter. 
1 quart milk. 
Bake slowly in a pan. Serve with sauce. — Afrs. G. A. li. 

Sweet Potato Pudding. 
Grate tiiree or four large sweet potatoes and put them imme- 
diately in three pints of sweet milk to prevent tliem from turn- 
ing dark. Beat six eggs light, add four ounces melted butter, 
and mix well with j)otatoes and milk. Add eight tablespoon- 
fuls of .sugar, and season with lemon or vanilla. Bake without 
a crust. — Mrs. W. C. R. 



SWEET POTATO PUDDING — MOLASSES PUDDING. 395 

Sweet Potato Pudding. 
Boil one and a half pounds potatoes very tender. Add half 
a pound butter, and rub both together through a sieve. Then 
add a small cupful milk, six eggs, one and a half cupful sugar. 
Leac all together and add a little salt, the juice and rind of a 
lemon. Then beat again, and prepare pastry. Bake twenty 
minutes. It may be baked without pastry, Irish potato pud- 
ding may be made by the same recipe. — Mrs. A. (J. 

Cream Pudding. 
Beat six eggs to a froth and stir into them three tablespoon- 
fuls sugar and the grated rind of a lemon. Mix one pint milk, 
one pound flour, and two teaspoonfuls salt. Add eggs and 
sugar. Just befoi'e baking, add a pint of thick cream. Bake 
in cups or pudding dishes. — Mrs. Col. W. 

Tyler Pudding. 

4 eggs. 

3 cupfuls sugar. 

1 cupful butter, washed and melted. 
1 cupful cream, seasoned with lemon. 
Bake in a paste. — Mrs. C. N. 

Molasses Pudding. 
1 cupful molasses. 
^ cupful butter and lard mixed. 
1 cup not quite full of buttermilk. 
3 eggs. 

1 teaspoonful soda. 
Flour enough to make it as thick as cake batter. If vou wish 
to eat it cold, add another cup of sugar. Bake it quickly. — Mrs. 
M. S. C. 

Molasses Pudding. 
1 teacup sugar. 
1 teacup butter. 



396 MOLASSES PUDDING — SNOWBALL PUDDING. 

2 teacups :iiolasses. 
2 teacups flour. 
4 eggs. 

1 tablespoonful ginger. 
1 teaspoouful soda dissolved in a few spoonfuls of buttennilk 
Eat with sauce. Excellent. 

Molasses Pvxlding. 
9 eggs. 

4 cupfuls molasses. 
1 teacup butter. 
Bake in a paste. — Mrs. P. IF. 

Cottage Pudding. 
Beat to a cream one large cupful of sugar and two and a halt 
tablespoonfuls of lard and b\xtter mixed. Stir in one well 
beaten egg, one large cup of buttermilk with soda dissolved in 
it. Add nutmeg to the taste. Take one pint of flour and rub 
into it, dry, two tablespoonfuls cream of tartar. Then add the 
other ingredients. Bake three-quarters of an hour and serve 
with wine sauce. — Mrs. A. F. 

Texas Pudding. 
3 eggs (yolks and whites beaten separately). 
3 c\ipfuls sugar. 
1 cupful butter. 
1 cupful sweet milk. 
Two tablespoonfuls of flour. Bake in a crust. This will fill 
three pie-plates. — Mrs. McN. 

Snowball Plt)ding. 
Boil one quart of rich milk and then thicken it with a table- 
spoonful of flour or arrow-root. Beat up the yolks of four eggs 
with three tablespoonfxils of white sugar. Then pour the milk 
slowly into the eggs and sugar, stimng all the time. Pour this 



THICKENED MILK PUDDING WASHINGTON PUDDING. 397 

custard into a pudding dish and brown it slightly. Beat up the 
whites to a stiff frotli, adding four tablespoonfuls of sugar, and 
flavoring with lemon. Drop it on the custard (when browned) 
in the form of balls, as large as an egg. Set it back in the stove 
to brown a little. — Mrs. S. T. 

Thickened Milk Pudding. 
Boil one pint of milk and one-half pint of water. Thicken 
with one pint of flour, and stir in three ounces butter, while 
warm. When cold, add nine eggs (well beaten), one pound 
sugar, one wine-glassful wine, and powdei'ed cinnamon and 
mace to your taste. — Mrs. R. 

Delicious Hasty Pudding. 
Seven eggs beaten separately. Add to the yolks gradually 
ten tablespoonfuls of sifted flour, alternately \\T.th a quart of 
milk and half a teaspoonful of salt. Beat till perfectly smooth. 
Then add the whites, pour into a buttered dish, and bake 
twenty minutes. Eat with nun's butter or wine sauce. — Mrs. 
P.McG. 

Feather Pudding. 
2 cupfuls flour. 
1 cupful sugar. 
1 cupful sweet milk. 
1 egg. 

1 tablespoonful butter. 
1 teaspoonful cream of tartar. 
^ teaspoonful soda. 
Season with nutmeg and eat with sauce. — Mrs. D. C. -S'. 

Washington Pudding. 
6 eggs (well beaten). 
\ pound butter. 
\ pound sugar. 
\ pound marmalade. 



398 ONE EGG PUDDING VIRGINIA. PUDDING. 

Beat well together, season with nutmeg, and bake in a paste. 
—Mrs. Br. S. 

One Egg Pudding. 

1 egg. 

1 cnpful sugar. 

1 cupful milk. 

2 cupfuls flour. 

1 tablesi30onful buttei-. 

1 teaspoonful soda. 

2 teaspoonful s cream of tartar. 
Eat with sauce. — Mrs. A. C. 

Delicious Pudding. 
Beat the yolks of six eggs very light. Stir in alternately 
three tablespoonfuls of flour and a pint of milk. Put a table- 
spoonful of melted butter and half a teaspoonful of salt in the 
batter. Then stir in the whites of the six eggs, beaten to a 
stifl;' froth. Butter the baking dish or cups, fill them a little 
more than half full, and bake quickly. Eat with wine sauce. 
Make this pudding half an hour before dinner, as it must be 
eaten as soon as done. — Jlfrs. S. T. 

Balloons. 

6 eggs. 

7 tablespoonfuls of flour. 
1 quart of milk. 

1 teacup of sugar. 

1 tablespoonful of butter. 

1 tablespoonful of lard. 
Cream the butter and lard with the flour. Beat the eggs 
and sugar together. Mix the milk in gradually, bake quickly, 
and eat with sauce. — ISIrs. Dr. E. 

Virginia Pudding. 
Scald one quart of milk. Pour it on three tablespoon ful.s of 



EXTKA FINE PUDDING EXCELLENT BATfEK PUDDING. 399 

sifted flour. Add the yolks of five eggs, the whites of two, and 
the gi'ated rind of one lemon. Bake twenty minutes. 

Sauce. — The whites of three eggs, beaten to a stiff froth, a 
full cup of sugar, then a wine-glass of wine and the juice of a 
lemon. Pour over the pudding just as you send it to the 
tAh\Q.— Miss E. S. 

Extra Fine Pudding. 
Make a batter of two teacupfuls of flour and four of milk. 
Beat the yolks and whites of four eggs separately. Then mix 
all together and add one tablespoonful of melted butter. Bake 
in a buttei'ed pan and serve with wine sauce. — Mrs. McG. 

SuPEKiOR Pudding. 
4 eggs. 
1 quart of milk. 

1 cup of sugar. 

2 tablespoonfuls of flour. 

Beat the sugar, flour, and yolks of the eggs together, with 
one cup of the milk, scald the remainder of the milk and put 
the above in it. Flavor with lemon or vanilla. Beat the 
whites of the eggs to a stiff" froth, add a little sugar, spread on 
top of the pudding, and brown slightly. — Mrs. D. C. -ff". 

Baked Indian Pudding. 
Take nearly one pint sifted meal and make into a mush. 
Pour over it one quart of boiled sweet milk. Add one gill of 
molasses, one gill of sugar, six eggs beaten separately, half a 
pint chopped suet. If you like, add a few currants, raisins, ot 
a little citron. Bake nearly two hours. Eat with sauce. — Mrs 

J. A. B, 

Excellent Batter Pudding. 

1 quart flour. 

7 eggs. 

^ oupful melted butter. 



400 PUFF PUDDING — POOR MAn's PUDDING. 

1 teaspoonful salt. 

1 teaspoonful soda, dissolved in lukewarm water. 

2 teaspooufuls cream of tartar, also dissolved. 

Enough sweet milk to make a batter the consistency ol 
sponge cake batter. Bake in a mould and eat with brandy 
sauce. — Mrs. M. C. C. 

Puff Pudding. 
10 eggs (beaten separately). 
10 tablespoonfuls sifted flour. 
1 quart milk. 
A little salt. 
Beat the eggs to a stiti" froth. Then put the flour with the 
yolks, then add the milk and lastly the whites, well beaten. 
Eat with cold or hot sauce. — Mrs. D. G. It. 

Penny Pudding. 
Beat five eggs very light. Mix with five tablespoonfuls of 
flour, one large spoonful of butter and one pint of milk. Eat 
with sauce. — Mrs. A. T. 

Economical Pudding. 
1 cup chopped suet. 
1 cupful golden syrup. 

1 cupful milk. 

2 cupfuls chopped raisins. 

3 cupfuls flour. 

1 teaspoonful soda (put in the milk). 

2 teaspooufuls cream of tartar put in the dry flour. 
Boil three hours and a half. — Miss E. T. 

Poor Man's Pudding. 
6 eggs. 

1 pint sour cream. 
1 cupful melted butter. 
1^ cupful sugar. 



PLAIN PUDDING — WINE SAUCE. 401 

1 teaspoonful soda. 
^ nutmeg. 
Put the butter in after the flour. Make the consistency oi 
pound cake batter. — Mrs. A. S. 

Plain Pudding. 
1 pint milk. 

3 eggs. 

4 tablespoonfuls flour. 
1 tablespoonful butter. 

Put chopped apples or peaches in the batter and bake. Eat 
witli sauce. — Mrs. A. H. 



PUDDING SAUCES. 

Wine Sauce. 

Dissolve one pound sugar in a little water Boil till nearly 
candied. A.dd a lump of butter the size of an egg, just before 
taking it off the fire, and stir in wine and nutmeg to your taste, 
after taking it off". — Mrs. R. 

Wine Sauce. 
Melt half a pound of butter, three cupfuls si;gar and two ot 
Madeira wine together, for a large pudding. Put a little 'Yater 
in the stewpan and let it boil. Roll the butter in a little flour, 
and stir it in the boiling water quickly. Then add the sugar, 
and lastly the wine. — Mrs. T. 

Wine Sauce. 
One-half pound butter, yolks of two eggs, beaten well and 
creamed with the butter ; nine tablespoonfuls nice brown sugar ; 
two glasses of wine. Let it simmer on the fire a short time. Grate 
nutmeg on it when you pour it into the sauce-bowl. ^ — 3frs. T. 

a4 



402 brandy satjce — pudding 8adce. 

Brandy Sauce. 
Cream together one-quarter pound fresh butter, and one 
quarter pound pulverized white sugar. Mix with it one gill oi 
lemon brandy, or half the quantity of brandy ; the juice of one 
lemon, and half a nutmeg grated. Stir it slowly into half a cup 
of boiling water, and after letting it simmer a moment, poiir 
into a warm sauce tureen. — Miss E. P. 

French Sauce. 
Cream half a pound butter, and stir in half a pound sugar. 
Then add the yolk of an egg, and a gill of wine. Put it on the 
fire ; stir till it simmers. Grate nutmeg over it, after taking it 
off the fire.— Jfrs. F. D. 

A Nice Sauce for Puddings. 

Half a pound of butter ; eight tablespoonfuls brown sugar ; 
one nutmeg (grated), the white of one egg. 

The butter must be creamed and the sugar beaten into it, then 
the egg. The wine poured gently in and stirred till the sauce 
is cold, then grate the nutmeg. Make it in a common sauce 
tureen, on the hearth, stirring all the while. Do not let it boil. 
—M7S. 31. E. J. B. 

Rich Sauce for Puddings. 
One pint cream ; half pound sugar ; one tablespoonful butter ; 
one glass of wine. Season to the taste. Do not let it boil. — 
Miss E. P. 

Sauce for Pudding. 

Two large cupfids brown sugar ; one large cupful butter ; one 
teacup wine ; a little rose water. Boil the sugar and wine 
together. Then add the butter and grated nutmeg. — Mrs. 

McG. 

Pudding Sauce. 

One cupful cream, from morning's milk; two cupfuls sugar j 
one egg, well beaten ; one tablespoonful butter; one teaspoonful 



COLD SAUCE — LEMON SAUCE. 4:03 

corn-starcli. Boil all together till a thick syrup. Take off the 
fire and add grated nutmeg and a glass of wine. — Mrs. S. 2\ 

Cold Sauce. 
Whites of five eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Sweeten to the 
taste. Pour in some hot melted butter, stirring well. Sesisoii 
with lemon. — Mrs. 31. G. H. 

Cold Sauce. 
Half a pound of butter and half a j)ound of sugar (powdered), 
beaten to a froth. The juice and grated rind of a lemon, o'- 
essence of any kind, as a flavor. — Mrs. M. F. G. 

Cold Sauce [for about eight j^eople). 
One heaping tablespoonful of butter, creamed till very light, 
adding su-gar till as tliick as you can stir. Then add two table- 
spoonfuls of very rich milk, a glass of good wine, and a little 
grated nutmeg. — Mrs. P. McG. 

Pudding Sauce. 
One cupful of butter; two cupfuls sugar; three eggs; one 
wine-glass of wine. Stir well, and lot it come to a boil. — Mrs. 
F. T). 

Padding Sauce. 
Cream together half a pound of sugar and butter. Add the 
yolk of one egg, the juice of a lemon, and a glass of wine. Stir 
over a slow fire, but don't boil. — Mrs. Mc G. 

Lemox Sauce. 
One pound sugar ; three ounces butter ; half a teacup of 
water. Juice and sliced rinds of two lemons. Poiir tliis into a 
saucepan, and while it is coming to a boil, beat the yolks of two 
eggs and adrl them. When well boiled, take it from the fire 
and add the whites of tlu; two eggs, beaten to a froth. To bo 
eaten hot with sponge cake. — 3frs. K. 



404 sauce fob boiled pastry — pastry — pies. 

Sauce for Boiled Pastry. 

Stew for lifteen minutes one pint of water, half a pound 
of sugar, and a piece of butter as lai'ge as an egg. Beat the 
yolks of three eggs. Remove the pan from the fire, and pour 
several spoonfuls of its contents into the beaten eggs, stirring 
briskly. Then pour all into the pan, place it over a slow fire 
and stir till it thickens. Season with lemon or vanilla. — Mrs 
I. 11. 

Molasses Sauce. 

Moderately boil a pint of molasses from five to twenty 
minutes, according to its consistency. Add three eggs well 
beaten. Stir them and continue to boil a few minutes longer. 
Season with nutmeg and lemon. — Mrs. Dr. «/! 



PASTBY. 

Pastry has fallen somewhat into disfavor, on account of its 
xinwholesome properties, but as many persons still use it, we 
will give some directions for making it as wholesome and palat- 
able as possible. 

It is a great mistake to use what is called " cooking butter " 
and old lard for pasti-y. Only fresh butter and sweet lard should 
be employed for the purpose, and in summer these should be 
placed on ice before beiug used for pastry. Pastry, like cake, 
should be made in the cool of tlie morning, and it should be 
eaten fresh, as, unlike cake, it will not admit of being kept. 

If a marble slab cannot be obtained, it is well to keep a thick 
wooden board exclusively for rolling out pastry. Handle as 
little as possible, and if anything should prevent you from put- 
ting it on to bake as soon as it is rolled out, put it on ice in tho 
interim, as this will make it nicer and more flaky. Sometimes 



KXOELLENT KKCIPE FOR PASTRY — I'UFF PASTE. 405 

there is a delay about getting the oven or fire ready, in which 
case the cook generally leaves the pastry lying on the kitchen 
table ; but its quality would be much improved if it were put on 
the ice instead, whilst waiting to be baked. 

Excellent Recipe for Pastry. 
Four teacups flour, one teacup firm butter, one teacup nice 
lard, one teacup ice water, one teaspoonful salt. Mix the lard 
and butter in the flour with a large, flat knife, then add the ice 
water. Do not touch it with the hands. Take it up in a rough- 
looking mass, roll it out quickly — not too thin. Cut it with a 
very sharp knife around the edges of the j^atty-pans. When 
intending to bake lemon puddings or cheese-cakes, let the pastry 
bake four or five minutes before adding butter, as this prevents 
the pastry from being heavy at the bottom. In summer it is best 
to put five teacups of flour, instead of foui-. — Mrs. M. C. C. 

Pastry. 

One pound fresh butter, one quart flour. Make up the dough 
with ice water. Divide the butter into parts. Koll out, and 
cover thickly with one part of the butter. Continue till all is 
rolled, sifting flour each time. Don't handle much, or it will be 
heavy. — Mrs. W. 

Pastry. 

Mix with water one quart flour and two teaspoonfuls salt. 
Work well and roll out thin. Spread over with lard, sift flour 
over the dough, and cut it in strips of two inches. Lay them 
in a pile one above another, cut them in squares, and again pile 
them up. Press down with the hands, and roll out thin as 
before. Repeat this several times, and the pastry will be im- 
proved each time. Do not use your hands after the roller is 
applied. 

Puff Paste. 

One pound flour, to be made up with cold water and beaten 
fifteen niinutes. One pound butter (or half l;ird, if you have 



406 LEMON PIE. 

not enough butter), winch must be spread on tlie dough foui 
times and rolled in. 

It must be made thin, put in tins, and baked in a moderate 
oven. 

Lemon Pie. 

Grate the rind and squeeze the juice of two lemons. Stii 
two tablespoonfuls corn-starch into two teacups hot water, and 
boil, stii-ring well. Add three-quarters of a pound of grauu 
lated sugar. When cool, add the yolks of four eggs well beaten, 
then the lemon-juice and grated rind, stirring the whole well 
together. Line the plates with rich pastry, and pour the mixt- 
ure in. Bake until the crust is done. Beat the whites of the 
eggs very light, add six ounces powdered sugar, pour over the 
pies, set them again in the oven, and slightly brown. I'his will 
make two pies. — Mrs. T. M. C. 

Lemon Pie. 
One cupful sugar, one cuj)ful sweet milk, one tablespoonful 
flour, one tablespoonful butter, three eggs, one lemon. Mix the 
grated rind and juice of the lemon with the yolks of the eggs 
and the sugar. Add the milk next, and then the butter and 
flour. Bake in a paste. After it is cold, spread on the whites 
of the eggs, frothed and sweetened. — 3Trs. Mc G. 

Ijemon Pie. 
Yolks of four eggs, white of one, beaten very light ; grated 
rind and juice of one large lemon ; five heaping tablespoonfuls 
sugar. Bake in an undercrust till the pastry is done. Froth 
the whites of three eggs with five tablespoonfuls sugar. Spread 
over the pies and bake again till brown. — Mrs. Col. S. 

Tjemon Pie. 
One tablespoonful but:er, creamed with two cups of sugar, 
yolks oi six eggs, grated rind and juice of four lemons, foui 
heaping tablespoonfuls flour. Mix well. Add a cupful butter- 



LEMON CREAM PIE PEACH MERINGUE PIE. 407 

milk, and ojie teaspoonful soda. Froth and sweeten the whites 

of the eggs and })ut them on top the pies. — 3Irs. iV. 

Lemon Cream Pie. 
One cnpfiil siigai', one of water ; one raw potato, grated ; juice 
and grated rind of one lemon. Bake in pastry, top and bottom. 

Orange Pie. 
Pulp and juice of two oranges, a little of the grated peel, the 
yolks of three eggs, one cupful sugar, one cupful milk. Stir 
the yolks with the sugar, then a tablespooufiil of butter, then 
the juice, lastly the milk. Bake in a dish. After the pie has 
cooled, spread on it the whites of the three eggs, stiffly frothed 
and sweetened. Then set it again on the fire, to brown slightly. 

—Mrs. McG. 

Orange Pie. 

One quart milk, eight f'ggs, one small teacup rolled cracker, 
half a cupful butter, two grated fresh oranges, or the juice and 
chopped peel of two, one wine-glassful wine. Cream the butter 
and sugar, add the wine, oranges, and eggs beaten to a foam, 
the whites separately, the milk and the cracker. Bake half an 
hour, in pufl* paste. — Mrs. M. S. 7?. 

Orange Pie. 
One pint of milk, three oranges, one cupful of sugar, three 
eggs, one and a half tablespoonful of corn-starch. Bake in putf 
paste.— ^1/7-s. H. H. S. 

Peach Meringue Pie. 
Pare and stew ripe peaches. When nearly done, sweeteHj 
take from the tire. Stir in a heaping teaspoonful fresh butter 
to each pie. Vunv in a deep pie-jjlate, lined with paste. Bake ; 
when done, remove from the oven and cover with the whites 
of three eggs beaten to a stiff froth, and sweetened with three 
tablespoonf'ds powdered sugar. Set back in the oven to brown 



408 PEACH PIE STRAWBERRY SHOKT-CAKE. 

slightly. Apple meringue pie may be made in the same wav^ 
only flavoring the fruit. — 3frs. S. T. 

Peach Pie. 
Pare and stew a quart of peaches with a pint of sugar, stir- 
ling often ; when boiled to look nearly as thick as marmalade, 
take from the fire and when nearly cool, add one tablespoonful 
fresh butter. Have ready three crusts, baked in shallow tin 
plates. Spread and pile up the fruit on each. — Mrs. S. T. 

Peach Pie. 
Pare and stew the peaches till nearly done. Sweeten and 
boil a little longer. Set aside and when nearly cool, pour into 
deep pie-plates, lined with paste. Put bits of butter over the 
top, dredge with flour, then cover with a top crust, and bake. — 
Mrs. T. 

Pkune Pie. 

Wash the prunes through several waters. Put in a preserv- 
ing kettle in the proportion of two pounds fruit to one pound 
sugar. Pour a quantity of boiling water over them and let 
them boil at least two hoiirs. When they are thoroughly 
done and the syrup thickens, take from the fiie and pour into 
tin plates, lined with paste. Add one teaspoonful of butter. 
Cover with a rich paste and bake. — Mrs. S. T. 

Damson Pie. 

Scald the damsons slightly, in just enough water to prevent 
I urning. Set aside till cool enough to handle. Remove the 
stones, sweeten well, and put in a deep pie-plate, lined with 
paste. Dredge with a little flour, cover with a top crust, and 
bake.— J/r«. T. 

Strawberry Short-cake. 

Bake a rich paste in pie-plates. Have six ready. In these 
Bpread stewed strawberries well sweetened ; lay one upon another, 
six deoj). In winter, use preserved or canned berries. — Mrs. IT. 



cherry pie apple pie. 409 

Cherhy Pie. 
Seed the cheri'ies first, then scald them in their own juice. 
Sweeten libei-ally and pour into a deep pie plate lined with a 
rich paste. Dredge with flour, ccver with atop crust and bake. 
Scai'let or short-stem cherries are best. It is necessary to scald 
most fruits, as otherwise the pastry will burn before the fruit is 
thorouglily done. — Mrs. S. T. 

Cranberry Pie. 

Pi'epare as for sauce, stewing two pounds fruit to one pound 
sugar. Pour into a pie plate lined with paste, cover with a top 
crust and bake. 

Currant Pie. 

Wash and thoi'oughly pick tlie fruit. Sweeten liberally and 
ptit in a yellow baking-dish, adding a little boiling water to 
melt the sugar ; let it simmer a little ; then set it aside to cool. 
Pour into a pie plate, covered with paste. Dredge with flour. 
Cover with paste and bake. 

Apple Pie. 
Put a crust in the bottom of a dish. Put on it a layer ot 
ripe apples, pared, cored, and sliced thin, then a layer of pow- 
dered sugar. Do this alternately, till the dish is filled. Add a 
few teaspoonfuls rose water and some cloves. Put on a crust 
and bake it. — Mrs. E. 

Ap2)le Pie. 
Pare and stew the apples till thoroughly done and quite dry. 
Rub through a colander and sweeten with powdered sugar. 
When cool add the whites of eggs — three eggs to a pint of 
apples — and a teacup of cream, whipped. Beat all the ingre- 
dients together with a patent egg-whip — one with a wheel if 
convenient. Spi'ead upon crusts of rich paste, baked in shallow 
tin pie-plates. Grate nutmeg on each one and pile up three or 
four deeo. — Mrs. 8 T. 

85 



410 APPLE PIE TOMATO PIK. 

Ajyple Pie. 
Pare ami slice the a})ple.s. Make a little thick syrup of 
white sugar, into which throw a few cloves, alls2>ice, or mace, as 
you prefer. In this syrup, scald a few apples at a time, taking 
them out and putting more in till all are slightly cooked. Set 
aside to cool, then pour into deep pie plates lined with paste. 
Dredge with flour. Put bits of butter over all. Dredge again. 
Cover with paste and bake. A glass of brandy or wine will 
improve it.— Mrs. /S. T. 

Blackberry Pie, 
Pick the berries, but do not wash them. Stew slightly, 
sweeten, pour into a pie plate, lined with paste. Grate in a 
little nutmeg, dredge with flour, put on u top crust and bake. 

Whortleberry Pie. 
Pour just enough boiling water on the fruit to prevent it from 
sticking to the bottom of the preserving kettle. Boil a minute, 
sweeten and pour into a pie-plate lined with paste. Dredge 
with flour, cover with paste and bake. — Mrs. S. T. 

Gooseberry Pie. 

Put one pound sugar to one of fruit, adding just enough 
water to [jrevent it fi'om burning. Cook till it begins to jelJv. 
Then spread over shapes of rich puff" paste, already baked, — 
Mrs. M. 0. C. 

T0.MAT0 Pie, 
Slice green tomatoes and stew in a thick syrup of sugar and 
lemon juice. Grate in theyellosv rind of a lemon. When trans- 
parent, spread evenly ovei- the bottom of a pie-plate that has been 
lined with paste. Spread strips of pastry across or cut intc 
ornamental leaves with a cake-cutter, place over the fruit and 
h-ake.—Mrs. S. T. 



sliced potato pie — mincemeat. 411 

Sliced Potato Pie. 
Steam or boil the potatoes. Slice and lay in a syrup of sugar 
seasoned with whole cloves or allspice. Scald and set aside till 
nearly cool. Then jdace the slices evenl}' on the bottom of a 
deejj pie-plate lined with crust. Put in each pie a tablespoon- 
ful of butter in bits, a wine-glass of brandy or Madeira wine. 
—Mrs. >S. T. 

Sweet Potato Pie. 

One pint potatoes, boiled and mashed with a teacup sweet 
milk, and run through a colander. Beat separately four eggs ; 
cream one teacup butter with one of sugar. Beat in the yolks, 
then the potatoes, grate in half a nutmeg, pour in a large wine- 
glass of brandy or good whiskey, and last of all, stir in the 
frothed wliites. Bake in deep pie plates, lined with paste, with- 
out a to}> crust. Sift powdered sugar over the pies. 

Irish potato pie may be made in the same way ; only adding 
the juice and grated rind of a lemon. — Mrs. T. 

Rhubaub Pie. 
Carefully skin the stalks, cut in pieces half an inch long. 
Scald in a little rich syrup, but not long enough to become soft. 
Set aside, and when nearly cool, pour into a pie plate, lined 
with paste. Put a little grated lemon rind and a piece of bvit- 
ter the size of a walnut, in each pie. Dredge with floui-, put on 
a top crust and bake. — Mrs. T. 

Mincemeat. 
Two quarts boiled beef, two quarts suet, chopped fine (or a 
part butter, for suet). Six quarts apples, one quart molasses 
(best quality). Four pounds sugar, tliree pounds raisins, one 
pound citron. Nutmeg, cinnamon, cloves, allspice, and wine to 
your taste. Mix well, pack in jars, with melted butter on top, 
if to keep long. Put in a cool place. — -Mrs. ,7. W. 



412 MINCEMEAT — CREAM PIE. 

Mincemeat. 
Three pounds meat (after it is boiled). Four pounds suet, 
three and one-half pounds raisins, one and one-half pounds cur- 
rants, one-half pound dried cherries, two nutmegs, and mace to 
your taste. Four pints white wine, one pint brandy, four 
pounds brown sugar. — 3fi-s. M. E. -T. B. 

Mincemeat. 
Six cupfuls beef, twelve cupfuls apples, three cupfuls sugar, 
two cupfuls molasses, two cupfuls butter, two pounds raisins, 
one quart cider, three tablespoonfuls cinnamon, two tablespoon- 
fuls allspice, two nutmegs. 

Mincemeat. 
Two pounds lean fresh beef, boiled and chopped. Two 
pounds beef suet chopped fine, four pounds pipj^in apples, two 
poimds raisins stoned and chopped, two pounds currants, one- 
half pound citron, two grated nutmegs, one ounce powdered 
cinnamon, one-half ounce each of cloves and mace, two large 
oranges, one teaspoouful salt, one quart brandy, one quart wine, 
one wineglass rose water. 

Cream Pie. 
One quart morning's milk, 1 cupful sugar, yolks of six eggs, 
three tablespoonfuls sifted flour. Boil twenty minutes, after 
seasoning with nutmeg, wine, and vanilla or lemon. Have rich 
pastry already baked, in deep pie plates. Fill with the above 
mixture and bake. Make a meringue of the whites and some 
sugar, pour over the pie, and set it in the stove again to 
brown. — Mrs. T. 

Cream, Pie. 

One half pound butter, four eggs, sugar and nutmeg to taste, 
two tablespoonfuls flour well mixed with milk. Pour over it one 
quart boiling milk, stir all together and bake in deep dishes.— 
Mrs. A. B. 



soda ceackee pie — molasses pie. 413 

Soda Ckacker Pie. 
Pour water on two large or four round soda crackers and let 
them I'emain till thoroughly wet. Then press out the water 
and crush them up together. Stir in the juice and grated peel 
of a lemon, with a cupful or more of powdered sugar. Put in 
pastry and bake. — Jliss II. L. 

Silver Pie. 

Peel and grate one large white potato. Add the juice and 
grated rind of a lemon, the beaten wlute of one egg, one cupful 
of white sugai", and one of cold water. 

Bake in a nice paste. After baking, spread on top the whites 
of three eggs, frothed, sweetened and flavored with lemon. Set 
again on the hre and brown. Lay on small pieces of jelly or 
jam, just before taking it to the table. — Jlrs. M. H. H. 

Custard Pie, 

One quart milk, five eggs, five tablespoonfuls sugar ; flavor 
with lemon. 

Bake slowly, half an hour. — Mrs. M. B. B. 

Washington Pie. 
One cupful sugar, one-half cupful butter, one-half cupful 
sweet milk, one-half cupful flour, one egg, one teaspoouful 
cream of tartar, one-half teaspoonful soda ; flavor with lemon. 
Put on dinner plates — spread with apple sauce between each 
layer. — Mrs. Br. «/! 

Sugar Pie. 

Three cupfuls light brown sugar, one-half cupful melted 
butter, one-half cupful cream, three eggs. Season with lemon ; 
beat well together ; bake in pastry, without tops. — Mrs. 'I. F. 
G. 

Molasses Pie. 

Three eggs, beaten separately, one pint molasses, one table- 
spoonful melted butter. Bake on a rich crust. — Mrs. Dr. J. 



4rl4: MOLASSES PIE CORN-STAKCII CHEESE CAKES. 

3folasses Pie. 
One teacup molasses, one teacup sugar, four eggs, four table 
spoonfuls butter. Mix sugar and eggs together, pour in butter, 
and add molasses. — Mrs. Dr. S. 

Cheese Cakes. 

Yolks of twelve eggs, one pound sugar, one-half pound but- 
ter, one cupful flour, one pint milk, juice of two lemons. The 
milk, flour, and butter, creamed, and lemons put in together, 
after the eggs are well beaten. Stir all well together till it 
curds. 

Bake in paste. — Mrs. A. C 

Lemon Cheese Cakes. 

Yolks of sixteen eggs, one pound sugar, three-quarters pound 
butter, four lemons, boiling rinds twice before using, two table- 
spoonfuls powdered cracker. 

Bake in paste. — 3Irs. Dr. E. 

Lemon Cheese Cakes. 
Mix and gently melt four ounces of sugar and four ounces of 
butter ; add yolks of two eggs, white of one ; grated rind of 
three lemons, juice of one and a half lemon, one small Savoy 
or sponge biscuit, some almonds blanched and pounded, three 
spoonfuls brandy. Mix well and bake in rich pastry. — Mrs. V. 

P. M. 

Lemon Cheese Cakes. 

Yolks of eight eggs or yolks of five and whites of three, one- 
half pound sugar, a lump of butter, juice of one lemon and 
grated rind of three. Bake in rich pastry — Miss D. D. 

Corn-starch Cheese Cakes. 
Juice and rind of three lemons, three cupfuls water, three 
cupfuls sugar, three eggs, three tablespoonfuls coin starch, two 
tablespoonfuls butter. Boil the watei", n^ix the corn starch with 



ALMOND CHEESE CAKES- -PRUNE TAKTS. 415 

a little cold water and pour on the boiling water. Let it boil up 
once and then pour it on the butter and sugar. After it cools 
-Miss D. D. 

Almond Cheese Cakes. 

Beat up together very light one-half pound powdered sugar, 
and the whites of four eggs. 

Blanch and cut in small pieces four ounces of almonds, which 
must be beaten up with the eggs and sugar. Add a little oil of 
almonds or rose water, and bake with pastry, in tins. — 3frs. 
I.H. 

Almond Cheese Cakes. 

Soak one-half pound Jordan almonds in cold water all night. 
Next morning, blanch them in cold water, lay them on a clean 
cloth to dry, and then beat them fine in a marble mortar with a 
little orange-flower or rose water. Then beat and strain six 
yolks and two whites of eggs, add a half-pound white sugar, and 
a little powdered mace. Rub all well together in the mortar. 
Melt ten ounces fi'esh butter, and add a grated lemon peel. 
Mix all the ingredients and fill the pans, after putting a paste at 
the bottom. Small tin shapes ai-e best for cheese cakes. 

Cream Takts. 
Make them small, of rich paste. Fill them after baking, with 
whipped cream, and drop a small spot of jelly in each one. The 
pi-ettiest and most delicate of tarts. ^J/?-*-. M. H. B. 

Lemox Takts. 
Chop or grate a lemon ; add a cupful white sugar, a cupful 
water, one egg, one tablespoonfiil flour. Line small patties with 
paste, put a spoonful in each and bake. — Mrs. M. B. B. 

PiiUNE Tarts. 
Scald the prunes, take out the stones, break them and put tho 
kernels in a little cranberry juice with the prunes, and some 



4:16 FRENCH FRirrERS BELL FRITTERS 

sugar. Simmer them, and when cold put in tart shapes in pas- 
try ani bake. — Mrs. V. P. M. 

French Fritteks. 

One quart of milk (half to be boiled, and the other hall 
mixed with a quart of flour, and used to thicken the boiling 
milk with). 

Let it get done. While cooking, beat ten eggs very light; 
add a spoonful at a time to the batter, beating all the time, till 
well mixed. Add salt to your taste. Have a small oven full 
of nice lard, boiling hot. Put not quite a spoonful of batter to 
each fritter. Take them out before they turn dark and put 
them in a colander to drain the lard off of them. — Mrs. Dr. JE. 

Fritters [made with yeast). 

One quart flour, three tablespoonfuls yeast, five eggs, one pint 
milk. Beat into a tolerably stiff batter. Stir a cupful of 
boiled rice into the batter, a short time before baking. A good 
deal of lard (boiling hot) is required for frying the fritters. 
Drop the batter in with a spoon, which must oe dipped, each 
time, in boiling water. In cool weather, make the fritters 
about nine in the morning, in the summer, about eleven. — 
Mrs. A. a 

Bell Fritters. 

Put a pint of boiling water in a preserving kettle, and as it 
boils, put in a tablespoonful of fresh butter. Have ready a pint 
of the best flour, sifted and wet with cold water, as for starch. 
Dip up some of the boiling water and pour to this, being care- 
ful to have it smooth. Retui-n this to the kettle, stirring 
rapidly to prevent lumps. Turn into a wooden tray, and while 
hot, beat in six well beaten eggs, a spoonful at a time. Beat 
till very light, and beat quickly that the eggs may not cook in 
lumps. Have ready a pint of boiling lard in a pan. Make the 
fritters the shape of an egg, drop in and fry a light brown. 

To be eaten with a pint of molasses, a heaping tablespoonfui 



QUIBE OF PAPER PANCAKES — JELLY, BLANC-MANGE. 41 7 

of butter, a little ginger and cinnamon, boiled to a thick syrup 
and served hot. 

A great deal of lard is required to fry fritters nicely ; yet it is 
not extravagant, as it may be used again. Strain what remains 
and put it by for use. — Mrs. S. T. 

Quire of Papeu Pancakes. 
Mix with half a pint of rich milk the yolks of four eggs, 
well beaten. Add three tablespoonfuls fine flour, four ounces 
sugar, five ounces fresh butter, melted and cooled, four table- 
spoonfuls Madeira wine, half a nutmeg. Grease the pans once 
w^ith fresh butter, and this will answer for all. The above quan- 
tity will suffice for five or six persons. — Mrs. R. 

Common Pancakes. 
Eight eggs, four tablespoonfuls flour, one pint of milk, one 
teaspoonful salt. 



JELLY, BLANC-MANGE, CHARLOTTE RUSSE, 
BAKED CUSTARD, CREAMS, ETC. 

Jelly made of the feet of calves, hogs, etc., is more trouble- 
some, but is also considered more nutritious than jelly made of 
gelatine. It is very desirable, for country housekeepers in par- 
ticular, to make this sort of jelly, as the materials are generally 
in their reach. It is well, however, in all cases, to keej) on 
hand Cox's or Nelson's gelatine, on account of the expedition 
with which jelly may be made from these preparations. 

As jelly is considered more wholesome when not colored by 
any foreign substance, no directions will be given in the subse- 
quent pages for coloring it. The palest amber jelly, clear and 
sparkling, flavored only by the grated rind and juice of a lemoi, 
18* 



4:18 JEI.LY BLANC-MANGE, CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 

and pale Madeira or sheriy wine, is not only the most beautiful, 
but tlic must i)alatable jelly that can be made. 

Tliough the i-ecipes accompanying boxes of gelatine do not 
always recommend boiling, it is a great imijrovement to jelly, 
adding brilliancy, transparency, and a better flavor. Only the 
grated yellow rind and strained juice of the lemon should be 
used, and these, with the requisite quantity of pale Madeira or 
sherry, should be added after the other ingredients have been 
well boiled together. The white rind or one single lemoi: seed 
\vill render the jelly bitter. A delicious preserve (for which 
a receipt is given under the proper heading), may be made of 
lemons, after the yellow rind has been grated off and the juice 
pressed out for jelly. 

The best and most simple arrangement for straining jelly is to 
invert a small table, fold an old table-cloth four double, tie each 
corner to a leg of the table ; set a bowl under the bag thus 
formed, with another bowl at hand to slip in its place when the 
jelly first run through is returned to the bag, as will be neces- 
sary, the first never being transparently clear. Catch a little in 
a glass. If clear as crystal, it will be unnecessary to return it 
again to the bag. You may tluni put a thick cloth over the bag 
to keep in the heat, and if in winter, place befoi-e a fire. Shut 
u\) the room, and let it drip. The jelly will run through the 
bag more rapidly if the bag is first scalded. 

Jelly should never be made in hot weather. Ices are much 
better and more seasonable. 

Always .serve jelly with a pitcher of whipped cream, but do 
not mix it beforehand with the cream, as it is best to leave it to 
the taste of each person. 

For blanc-mange and gelatine, it is best to use gelatine and 
as few spices as possible, as spices turn gelatine dark. As such 
explicit directions are given in the subsequent pages for the 
making of tlu'se dishes, it is unnecessary to say anything fur*}ier 
on the subject at present. 

A nice custard is made in the following manner: Mix the 



STOCK JELLY CALVEs' FOOT JELLiT. 419 

beaten yolks of six eggs with a teacup of sugar. Have a quart 
of milk boiling in a kettle. Dip up a teacup of milk at a time 
and pour on the eggs, till the kettle is emptied, stirring rapidly 
all the time. Wash out the kettle, pour the mixture back, and 
stir constantly till it thickens. Then pour it into a bowl and 
stir till cool, to make it smooth and prevent it from curdling. 
Put in the bottom of glass mugs slips of ])reserved orange, 
lemon, or citron. Fill nearly full with custard ; put whipped 
cream and grated nutmeg on top. 

Or, the yolks may be mixed with boiled milk and sugar in the 
same proportions, but instead of being returned to the kettle, 
may be poured into china or earthenware custard-cups, set in a 
pan of boiling water, placed in a stove or range, and baked. 
The boiled milk must be seasoned by boiling a vanilla bean in 
it, or a few peach leaves, or it may be flavored with carohiel. 
Secye the custard with whipped cream oii top. 

Stock Jelly. 
To one and a half gallons of stock, put the whipped whites of 
eight eggs. Put iu six blades of mace and the rind of three 
lemons, 4-^ pounds sugar. Let it boil ten minutes, then add three 
pints of Madeira wine, juice of eight lemons, a little vinegar or 
sharp cider. Let it boil only a few minutes. Strain through a 
dripper. If the stock is not very nice, it may require the 
whites of one dozen eggs to clear it. — Mrs. T. 

Calves' Foot Jelly. 
One quart nice jelly stock, one pint wine, half a pound white 
sugar, whites of four eggs beaten up, three .spoonfuls lemon 
juice. Boil all well and pass through a jelly-bag, kept hot 
before the fire. Try some at first, till it dri[)s clear, and then 
})Our out the whole. Peel the lemons as thin as possible and 
strain the jelly on the peelings. Should you wish to turn on* 
the jelly in moulds, put one ounce isinglass to three pints of 
jelly.— J/rs. I. U. 



420 isinglass jelly — gelatine jei ly. 

Isinglass Jelly. 
Dissolve two ounces isinglass in two quarts of boiling water. 
When cold, add juice of three lemons and skin of one, whites 
of three eggs, well beaten, one and a half pounds of sugar, one 
pint cider, four pieces cinnamon (size of the little finger), eight 
blades of mace. Let it boil up well. Be careful not to stir 
after the ingredients are thoroughly mixed. Let it stand ten 
minutes aftei removing from the fire, and just before straining 
pour in a pint of wine. — Mrs. W. H. H. 

Crystal Jelly. 

Pare off the rind of one large lemon. Boil in one pint water 
with one ounce isinglass ; add one pound sugar and one cup pale 
wine. As soon as the isinglass is dissolved, strain through a 
muslin and let it stand till cold. Grate the rind of another lemon 
and let it stand in the juice of the two lemons for a short time. 
Strain all in a bowl, and whisk it till it begins to stiffen. Pour 
in mouids.— Mrs. JS. I*. G. 

Gelatine Jelly. 

Soak one box of Cox's gelatine, thi-ee hours, in a pint of cold 
water. Then add one pint of cooking wine, the rind and juice 
of one lemon, two pounds white sugar, a little mace. Stir these 
ingredients till the sugar dissolves, then add two quarts of boil- 
ing water, gently stirring till mixed. Strain at once, through 
a flannel bag twice. This recipe makes the best jelly I ever 
saw. — Mrs. M. M. D. 

Gelatine tTelly. 

To one package of gelatine add one pint cold water, the riud of 
one lemon and juice of three. Let it stand an hour. Then add 
three pints of boiling water, one pint wine, two and a quarter 
])Ounds loaf sugar, a wineglass of brandy or the best rum. 
Strain through a napkin and let it stand to jelly. —Mrs. Col. S. 

Gelatine tTelly {without straining). 
Add a pint cold water to one box Cox's gelatine. Let ii 



JELLY WITHOUT EGGS OR BOILING BLANC-MANGE. 421 

stand fifteen minutes, then add three pints boiling water, one 
pint wine, the strained juice and peelings (cut thin) of three 
lemons, half a teacup of best vinegar, one and a half pounds loaf 
sugar, one wine-glass Frencli brandy, mace or any other spice 
you like, and a little essence of lemon. Let it stand an hour, 
then take out the lemon peel and mace. Let it stand in a cool 
place to congeal. — Mrs. Dr. JT. 

Jelly without Eggs or Boiling. 
Dissolve one package gelatine, an hour, in a pint of cold 
water. Then add three pints of boiling water, the strained 
juice of four lemons and the rind of two, one quart of wine, 
two pounds of sugar. Stir all well together until dissolved. — 
Mrs. E. B. 

1^ Jelly without Soiling. 

To one of the shilling packages of Cox's gelatine, add one 
pint cold water. After letting it stand an hov;r, add one and a 
half po\inds of loaf sugar, the juice of four lemons, one pint 
light wine, tlnee pints boiling water, and cinnamon to the taste. 
In cold weather this is ready for use in four or five hours. Set 
the vessel with the jelly on ice, in summer. — Miss D. D. 

Cream Jelly. 
Two measures of stock, one of cream ; sweeten and flavor to 
the taste. Pour in moulds to congeal. 

Bl;ANC-MANGE. 

Dissolve over a fire an ounce of isinglass in a gill of water. 
Pour the melted isinglass in a quart of cream (or mixed cream 
and milk), and half a pound of loaf sugar. Put in a porcelain 
kettle, and boil fast for half an hour. Strain it, and add a 
quarter of pound of almonds, blanched, and shaved fine. Sea- 
son to the taste with vanilla and wine, but do not add the wine 
while hot. Pour into moulds. — Mrs. C. C. 



422 ULANC-MANGE AKROW-ROOT RLANC-MANGE. 

Blanc-mange. 

Po\/r two tablespoonfuls cold water on one ounce gelatine tc 
soften it. Boil three pints rich cream. Stir the gelatine into 
it whilst on the fire, and sweeten to the taste. When it cools, 
sea&on with three tablespoonfuls peach water. Four ounces 
almonds, blanched and pounded very fine and boiled with the 
blanc-mange, are a great improvement. When it begins to 
thicken, pour into moulds. Serve with plain cream. — Mrs. J". 
H. T. 

Slanc-viange. 

Sweeten a pint of cream and flavor it with lemon juice. 
Then whip it over ice, till a stitf froth. Add one-quarter of an 
ounce gelatine, dissolved in a little boiling water, and whip it 
well again to keep the gelatine from settling at the bottom. 
Pour in a mould, and set on ice till stifi" enough to turn out 
Eat with cream, plain or seasoned. A delicious dish. — Mrs. 
G. D. L. 

JBlanc-mange. ( Very fine.) 

Dissolve one box gelatine in two quarts milk, let stand for 
two hour.s. Boil six almonds in the milk. Strain through a 
sifter while this is being boiled. Pound together in a mortar, 
two handfuls blanched almonds and half a cupful granulated 
sugar. Stir into the boiled milk. Add one tablesjioonful 
vanilla, and sweeten to your taste. — Mrs. W. S. 

Custard Blanc-mange. 

Make a custard with one quart milk, four eggs, one teacup 
sugar. Stir into it while boiling, half a box gelatine after it 
has soaked ten minutes. Season with vanilla, and pour in 
moulds. Eat with whipped cream. — Mrs. J£. P. G. 

Arrow-root Blanc-mange. 
Boil in a saucepan (tightly covered) one quart milk and a 
piece of vanilla bean. Stir into half a pint cream, a teacup 



CHOCOLATE MANGE — CMARLOTTK KUSSE. 423 

arrow-root, and a little sauce, mixing them smoothly. Pour 
iijto this the quart boiling milk, stir it well, put it in the sauce- 
pan again and let it simmer ten minutes. Sweeten to your 
taste. Set it in moulds to cool. Eat with cream, flavored to 
your taste. — Mrs. H. 

Chocolate Mange. 

Dissolve one ounce Cox's gelatine in a pint cold water. Let 
it stand an hour. Then boil two quarts of milk, and add to it 
six ounces chocolate with the gelatine. Sweeten to your taste 
and pour into moulds. Eat with sauce made of cream, wine, 
and sugar. — Mrs. IV. H. L. 

Coffee Mange. 
One cupful very strong coffee, one cupful sugar, one cupful 
rich cream. Dissolve half a box gelatine in two cupfuls milk, 
over the fire. Add the cream last, after the rest is cool. Pour 
in a mould to congeal. — -Mrs. Mc G. 

Charlotte Pousse. 
One pint milk made into a custard with the yolks of six eggs, 
sweetened with half a pound sugar, and flavored with vanilla. 
Strain into the custard, one ounce isinglass, dissolved in two 
cupfuls milk. When this mixture is cold and begins to stiffen, 
mix with it gradually, one pint rich cream, previously whipped 
to a froth. Then put strips of sponge cake around the mould 
and put the Charlotte Russe in. Turn it out when ready to 
serve. — Mrs. W. C. M. 

Charlotte JRusse. 

Soak three-quarters of a package of gelatine in three teacups 

fresh milk. Make a custard of one and a half yint fresh milk, 

three-quarters of a pound of sugar, and the yolks of eight eggs. 

When it has boiled, add the gela.ine, and flavor with vanilla. 



424 CHARLOTTE RUS8E. 

When it begins to congeal, stir in a quart rich cream, whipped 
to a froth. — Mrs. M. 

Charlotte Husse. 
Have a tin or earthernware mould six inches high, and the 
same in diameter (or obhmg, if you like). Slice sponge cake 
or lady-fingers and line the mould with them. Then beat three 
pints rich cream to a froth, and put the froth on a sieve to 
drain the milk from it. Take one pint calf's-foot jelly (or one 
and a half ounces gelatine), half a pint rich milk, and the yolks 
of six eggs. Place over a slow fire, and beat till they nearly 
boil. Then take them off" the fire and beat till cool. Put 
in the frothed cream, sweeten to your taste, flavor with vanilla, 
and stir all well together. Fill the mould and place it on ice 
to cool— Mrs. W. H. L. 

Strawberry Charlotte Russe. 

Six eggs, one ounce isinglass, one quart milk. Sweeten to 
the taste and flavor with vanilla. Pour into moulds. Then 
put it on sponge cake, covered with strawberry jam, and pour 
aiound the dish whipped cream, sweetened and flavored with 
wine. — Mrs. Mc G. 

Charlotte Russe. 

Sweeten one qiTart cream, flavor it with wine and whip it 
lightly. Dissolve half a box gelatine in a tablespoonful cold 
water and the same quantity of boiling water. Set over the 
steam of a kettle to dissolve. Then add half a pint of cream. 
When cold, stir it into the whi])ped cream. Beat the whites 
of four eggs very light, and stir into the cream. When it 
begins to stiffen, pour into a glass bowl, lined with thin strips 
of sponge cake. Whip, sweeten and flavor anotlier pint of 
cream, and garnish the dish. — Mrs. D. 

Charlotte Russe. 
One ounce gelatine ; one quart i-ich cream ; eight eggs ; one 



BAKED CUSTAED — SPANISH CKEAM. 425 

quart new milk. Sugar and flavorixig to taste. Wliip the 
crea.m to a stiff froth. Make a custard of the milk, gelatine 
and yolks of the eggs. When cool, add the whites of the eggs 
well beaten and the whipped cream. Line the mould with 
sponge cake, and if in summer put it on ice. — J\fiss M. C. L. 

Baked Custard. 

Boil a quai't or three pints of cream, or rich milk, with cinna- 
mon, and three dozen beaten peach kernels, tied in a piece of 
muslin, or you may substitute some other flavoring, if you 
choose. After boiling, let it cool. 

Then beat the yolks of fourteen eggs and whites of four, 
sweeten and strain in a pitcher. After it has settled, pour it in 
cups and set them in the oven, putting around them as much 
boiling water as will reach nearly to the top of the c\ips. Let 
it boil till you see a scum rising on top the custard. It will 
require at least ten minutes to bake. — Mrs. JR. 

Baked Custard. 
Seven eggs ; one quart milk ; three tablespoonfuls sugar. 
Flavor to taste. — Mrs. Dr. E. 

Saked Custard. 
Scald eight teacups milk. (Be careful not to boil it.) After 
cooling, stir into it eight eggs and two teacups sugar. Bake in a 
dish or cups. Set in a stove pan and surround with water, but 
not enough to boil into the custard cups. An oven for ])aking 
puddings is the right temperature. Bake when the custard is 
set, which will be in twenty minutes. — Mrs. T. tT. A. 

Spanish Cream. 
Boil, till dissolved, one ounce of gelatine in three pinta of 
milk. Then add the yolks of six eggs, beaten light, and mixed 
with two teacups sugar. Put again on the fire and stir till it 

thickens. Then set it aside to cool, and meantime beat the 

36 



426 SPANISH CEEAM — BAVARIAN CREAM. 

six whites very stiff and stir them into the custard when almost 
cold. Pour into moulds. Flavor to your taste, before adding 
the whites. — Mrs. W. 

S2)anish Cream. 

Dissolve half a box gelatine in half a pint milk. Boil one 
quart milk, and while boiling beat six eggs separately and very 
light. Mix the yolks with the boiling milk, and when it 
thickens add the gelatine. Sweeten and season to the taste. 
Pour all wliile hot on the whites of the eggs. Pour into 
moulds.— J/rs. J^. T. B. 

Italian Cream. 

Soak a box of gelatine in one pint cold water. Then add 
one quart nice cream, season with fresh lemons, sweeten to your 
taste, beat well together, and set away in a cool place. When 
hard, eat with cream, flavored with wine. — Mrs. A, JB. 

Russian Cream. 
Boil, till dissolved, one ounce gelatine in three pints milk. 
Then add the yolks of four eggs, well beaten, and five ounces 
sugar. Mix the whole and let it cook. Then strain and set 
aside to cool. Beat the four whites to a stiff froth, and when 
the cream is nearly congealed, beat them in. Flavor to your 
taste, and mould. — Mrs. A. P. 

Bavarian Cream. 
Sweeten one pint thick cream to your taste and flavor it with 
lemon or vanilla. Cliurn the cream to a froth, skim off the 
froth as it rises and put it in a glass dish. Dissolve one and a 
half tablespoonfuls gelatine in warm water, and when dissolved 
pour into the froth and stir fifteen minutes. Set in a cold 
place and it will bo ready for use in a few hours. — Mrs. D. It. 

Bavarian Cream. 
Soak half a box gelatine in cold water till thoroughly dis- 
solved. Then add three pints milk or cream, and put on the 



TAPIOCA CBEAM — SYLLABUB. 427 

fire till scalding hot, stirring all the while. Then take it oil 
and add three teacups sugar and the yolks of eight eggs (by 
spoonfuls) stirring all the time. Set on the fire again and lei 
it remain till quite hot. Then take it off and add the eight 
beaten whites and eight teaspoonfuls vanilla. Put into moulds 
to cool. — Mrs. N. A. L. 

Tapioca Cream. 

Three tables^joonfuls tapioca, one quart milk, three eggs, one 
cupful sugar. Flavor with lemon or vanilla. 

Soak the tapioca, in a little water, overnight. After rinsing, 
put it in milk and let it cook soft. Add sugar and yolks of 
eggs. Whip the whites stiff and pour on the tapioca, as you re- 
move it from the fire. It should be cooked in a tin pail, set in 
a kettle of boiling water, to prevent the milk from scorching. 
Eal^cold.— J/>s. G. W.P. 

Tapioca. 
Boil the pearl tapioca (not the lump kind) as you do rice, 
Wlien cool, sweeten to the taste and season witli nutmeg. Pour 
rich cream over it and stir it to ma'ke it smooth. J'lit one pint 
cream to two tablespoonfuls before boiling. — Mrs. J. II. T. 

Lemon Froth. 

Dissolve a box of gelatine in a pint of warm water, then add 
a pint of cold water. In winter three pints may be used in- 
stead of two. 

Add the juice of six lemons and the rind; cut them as for 
je'ly. Let it stand till it begins to harden. Then take out the 
rind and add the whites of twelve eggs beaten to a stiff froth, 
Beat them into the jelly, put in a glass bowl, and serve in 
saucers. — Mrs. A. C. 

Syllabub. 
Half a pound sugar, three pints lukewarm cream, one cupful 
wino. Dissolve the sugar in the wine, then pour it on the milk 



SLIP — APPLE SNOW. 

from a height and slowly, so as to cause the milk to froth.— 
Mrs. E. 

Slip. 

One quart milk (warm as when milked), one tablespoonful 
wine of the rennet. After the milk is turned, eat it with a 
dressing of cream, sugar and wine. — Mrs. Dr. JE. 

BONNY-CLABBBR. 

Set away the milk in the bowl in which it is brought to the 
table. If the weather is warm, set it in the refrigerator after 
it has become clabber. 

Help each person to a large ladleful, being careful not to 
break it. Eat with powdered sugar, nutmeg and cream. — Mrs. 
S. T. 

Float. 

To a common-sized glass bowl of cream, sweetened with loaf 
sugar and flavored with wine, take the whites of six eggs, three 
large tablespoonfuls sugar, and three of fruit jelly. Do not beat 
the eggs to a froth, but put in the jelly and sugar and beat all 
together. — Mrs. T. 

Apple Float. 
Mash a quart cooked or coddled apples smooth througli a 
sieve ; sweeten with six tablespoonfuls sugar, and flavor with 
nutmeg. Then add the apples, a spoonful at a time, to the 
whites of four eggs, well beaten. Put a pint of cream, seasoned 
with sugar and nutmeg, at the bottom of your dish, and put the 
apples on top. — Mrs. I. H, 

Apple Snow. 
Pare and slice one dozen large apples ; stew them perfectly 
done, and run through a colander. Then add whites of twelve 
eggs, beaten to a stifi' fiutli, and one pound white sugar. Eat 
with sweet cream. 



A NICE DESSERT OF APPLES BAKED APl'LES. 429 

A Nice Dessert of Apples. 

Pare and weigh two pounds green apples. Cut them in smAll 
pieces, and drop them in a rich syrup, made of a pound and a 
quarter of " A " sugar and a little water. As soon as the syrup 
begins to boil, add the juice and grated rind of one large lemon 
or two small ones. 

Boil till the apples become a soKd mass. Turn out in a wet 
mould to stand till cold. Serve on a dish surrounded with 
boiled custard, or eat with seasoned cream. — Mrs. A. F. 

A Nice, Plain Dessert. 
Peel and slice the apples, stew till done, then run through a 
colander and sweeten, season. Beat the whites of three eggs to 
a stiff froth, and just before serving whip them into a quart 
of the stewed apples. Eat with cream. — Mrs. T. 

Apple Compote. 
Pare, core, and quarter the apples, wash them, and put them 
in a pan with sugar and water enough to cover them. Add cin- 
namon, and lemon peel which has been previously soaked, scraped 
and cut in strings. Boil gently till done ; lay in a deep dish. 
Boil the syrup to the proper consistency, and pour over the 
apples. — Mrs. K. 

Nice Preparation of Apples. 
Quarter and core some well-flavored apples, place in a shallow 
tin pan or plate, sprinkle thickly with white sugar and a few 
small pieces of cinnamon. Pour on enough cold water to half 
cover the apples, and scatter a few small pieces of butter over 
them. Cook slowly till thoroughly done, then set away to cool. 
—Mrs. MqG. 

Baked Apples. 
Pare and core the apples, keeping them whole. Put in a bak- 
ing-dish, and fill the holes with brown sugar. Pour inio each 



430 ICED APPLES — ICE CREAM AND FROZEN CUSTAKD. 

aj)ple a little lemon juice, and stick into each a piece of lemon 
peel. Put enough, watei- to prevent their burning. Bake til' 
tender, but not broken. Set away to cool. Eat with cream oi 
custard. They will keep two days. — 3Irs. Dr. «/". 

Iced Apples. 
Pare and core one dozen fine, firm apples, leaving them whole. 
Place in a stewpan, with enough water to cover theui, and stew 
till you can pierce them with a straw. Then remove from the 
fire, and set in a dish to cool. Then fill the centre with currant 
or some other jelly, and ice over as you would cake. Serve in a 
glass dish, and eat with rich cream or custard. — Mrs. A. I). 



ICE CREAM AND FROZEN CUSTARD. 

After having tried many new and patent freezers, some of the 
best housekeepers have come to the conclusion that the old- 
fashioned freezer is the best. It is well, however, to keep a 
patent freezer on hand, in case of your wanting ice cream on 
short notice ; but for common use an old-fashioned one is the 
best, especially as servants are so apt to get a patent freezer out 
of order. 

The great secret of freezing cream quickly in a common 
freezer is to have the cream and salt in readiness before break- 
ing the ice into small pieces the size of a walnut. There must 
be a space of two inches between the freezer and the tub in 
which it is set. Put a little ice and salt under the bottom of 
the freezer, then pack alternate layers of ice ai\d salt several 
inches higher than the cream is in the freezer. If there is no 
to]) to the tub, with an aperture to admit the freezer, pin a 
woollf\i cloth over it and turn the freezer rapidly. When the 
cream begins to harden on the sides of the freezer, cut it down 



ICE CREAM AND FUOZEN CUSTARD. 431 

with a knife, scrape from the sides, and beat with a large iron 
spoon. Then cover again, and turn rapidly till it is as hard 
as mush. When the ice begins to melt, drain off the salt and 
water, adding more salt and ice, which must be kept above the 
level of the cream in the freezer. When done, tie large news- 
papers over the tub and freezer. Put a woollen cloth or blanket 
over these, and set the cream in a dark, cool closet till wanted. 
In this way it may be kept for hours in summer, and for days 
in winter, and will grow harder instead of melting. As cream 
can be kept thus, it is well to make it early in the day and set 
it aside, leaving more leisure for other preparations that are 
better made immediately before dinner. 

Ice cream making, like ether branches of housekeeping, is 
much facilitated by having all the ingredients at hand before 
beginning on it. As such explicit directions for the process 
are given in the subsequent pages, it is unnecessary for me to 
add anything further on the subject. Unless you have pure 
cream to freeze, it is better to make plain boiled custard rather 
than to attempt an imitation of ice cream. 

It is a good plan to make jelly and custard at the same time, 
so that the yolks of eggs not used in the jelly may be utilized in 
custard either boiled or baked. The same proportions are gen- 
erally used for boiled and baked custard. Instead of flavoring 
with exti'act of vanilla, it is much better to boil a vanilla bean 
in the milk, or to boil some peach leaves tied up in a piece of 
muslin (six or eight leaves to a quart of milk), or to flavor it 
with burnt sugar. Never flavor custard with extract of lemon, 
when you can obtain fresh lemons for the purpose. 

When you have no yolks left from making jelly, boil a quart 
of milk (flavored by the above directions). Have ready three 
eggs, whites and yolks beaten together to a stiff froth, and into 
these stir a teacup of powdered white sugar. Dip up the boil- 
ing milk, pour slowly on the eggs, stirring rapidly. When all 
the milk has been stirred in the eggs, wash out the kettle, put 
the milk ind eggs back into it, and let the mixture boil till it 



432 ICE CREAM LEMON ICE CREAM. 

begins to thicken, when it must be taken immediately from the 
fire, poured into a bowl, and stirred till cold and smooth. 

Many persons, before freezing, stii- in the frothed whites of 
three eggs. The same directions given for freezing cream apply 
to the freezing of custard. 

Boiled custard should never be used as a substitute for cream 
in making fruit ice creams, nor should it ever be eaten with 
jelly. 

Ice Cream. 

Dissolve five teaspoonfuls Oswego stai'ch or arrow-root in a 
teacup milk. Add to it the whites of three eggs well frothed, 
and the yolk of one, well beaten. 

Sweeten with loaf sugar and boil half a gallon new milk. As 
soon as it begins to boil, pour it in small quantities over the 
mixture of eggs and starch, till about half the milk is taken out 
of the kettle. Then pour all back in the kettle and stir a few 
moments. After it cools, add one quart rich cream ; season to 
the taste and freeze. — Mrs. Dr. E. 

Ice Cream. 
One quart milk, two eggs, one teaspoonful corn starch, one 
teaspoonful arrow-root. A small lump of butter. — Mrs. E. J}. 

Ice Cream. 

Cream one tablespoonful butter from which the salt has been 
■washed. Add three tablespoonfuls coin starch. Dissolve this 
in half a gallon new milk, heated, sweetened and seasoned. 
Beat the whites of four eggs, and stir in just before freezing. — 
Mrs. McG. 

Lemon Ice Cream. 

One gallon rich cream, six lemons, fiist rubbed till soft, and 
then grated. Tie the yellow peel, which has been grated oflF, in 
a piece of coarse muslin. Cut each lemon in half and squeeze 
the juice from it. Strain the juice, and soak the muslin bag of 



OKANGE ICE CREAM PEACH CREAM. 433 

lemon peel in it, squeezing it frequently till it becomes highly 
flavored and colored by it. Then add two teacups of siigar. 

In sweetening the cream, allow a teacup of sugar to each 
quart. Pour the juice into it slowly, carefully stirring. Froth 
and freeze, reserving a portion of cream to pour in as it sinks 
in freezing. — Mrs. S. T. 

Okange Ice Cream. 
Four oranges, one gallon cream. Rub four or five hunps of 
sugar on the orange peel, squeeze the juice out, put the lumps 
of sugar in it and pour into the cream. Sweeten heavily with 
pulverized sugar before freezing.— J/i/'s. M. 

Sthavvbeuuy Cream. 
Four quarts thick sweet cream, four quarts strawberries. 
The berries must be mashed or bruised, caps and all, with a 
teacup of granulated sugar to each quart. After standing 
several hours, strain through a thin coarse cloth. 

Put four teacups of white sugar to the cream, and then add 
the juice of the berries. Whip or froth the cream with 
a patent egg-whip or common egg-beater. Pour two-thirds of 
the cream into the fi-eezer, reserving the rest to pour in after it 
begins to fi-eeze. Raspberry cream may be made by the same 
recipe. — Mrs. S. T. 

Peauh Cream. 
Take nice, soft peaches, perfectly ripe. Pare and chop fine, 
make them very sweet, and mash to a fine jam. To each quai't 
of peaches, add one pint of cream and one pint of rich milk. 
Mix well and freeze. If you cannot get cream, melt an ounce 
of Cox's gelatine in a cup of water. Boil the milk, pour it on 
the gelatine, and when cold, mix with the peaches. — L. D. L. 

Peach Cream. 
To two quarts of rich, sweet cream, add two teacups of sugar. 
Wliip to a stiff froth with a patent egg-whip, one with a wheel, 

37 



434 PINEAPPLE ICE CREAM VANILLA ICE CREAM. 

if comenieiit ; if not, use the common egg- whip. Then peel 
soft, ripe peadies till yon have about two quaits. As you peel, 
sprinkle over them two teacups powdered white sugar. ]\Iash 
quickly vvith a silver tablespoon, or run through a colander, if 
the fruit is not soft and lipe. Then stir into the whipped 
cream, and pour into the freezer, reserving about one-fourth ti) 
add when the cream begins to sink in freezing. When you add 
the remainder, first cut down the frozen cream from the sides 
of the freezer. JUeat hard with a strong iron spoon, whenever 
the freezer is opened to cut down the cream, till it becomes too 
hard. This beating and cutting down is required only for the 
common freezer, the patent freezer needing nothing of the kind. 

Tie over the freezer large newspapers, to exclude the air, and 
set aside till wanted. 

Apricot cream may be made exactly by this receipt. — Jifrs. 
S. T. 

Pineapple Ice Ckeam. 

Whip two quarts rich, sweet cream to a froth, with two tea- 
cups powdered white sugar. Use a patent egg-whip with a 
wheel, if convenient ; if not, use the common egg-whip. 

Grate two rii)e pine;ipples, and add to them two teacups 
white sugar. When well mixed, stir into the cream. 

Pour into the freezer, resL'r\ing one-fourth. When it b>'gins 
to freeze, it will sink; then beat in the remainder with a .strong 
iron Sj)Oon. Beat every time the freezer is opened to cut down 
the cream from the sides. Never cook fruit of any sort to make 
cream. — Mrs. t-i. T. 

Vanilla I( e Ckeam. 
Boil half a vanilla bean, cut in small pieces, in half a pint of 
ticli new milk. When eool, strain and add to twocjuarts thick 
sweet cream. Sweeten with two heaping teacups powdered 
sugar, and whip to a stiff froth. Pour into a freezer, reserving 
<me fouitli of th(! cream. As soon as it begins to freeze, stir 
fiviu the sides with a la)-g(! iron S[)Oon, and beat hard. Add 



NOKVELL HOUSE CARAMEL ICE CEEAM. 435 

the remaijimg cream when it begins to sink. Beat every time 
the freezer is opened. When frozen, tie newspapers ove/ the 
freezer and bucket, throw a blanket over them, and set in a 
close, dark place till the ice cream is wanted. — Mrs. S. T. 

ISoRVELL House Caramel Ice Cream. 
One gallon rich, sweet ci-eam, four teacups powdered sugar, 
five tablespoonfuls caramel. Mix well and freeze hard. 

Caramel. 
Put in a stewpan one teacup nice brown sugar and half a 
teacup water. Stew over a hot fire till it burns a little. If 
too thick, make it of the consistency of thin molasses, by adding 
a little boiling water. Bottle and cork, ready for use. — 3Irs. 
J. W. II. 

Caramel Ice Cream. 

Three quarts cream, two pints brown sugar, put in a skillet 
and stir constantly over a brisk fire until it is dissolved. 
Be careful not to let it burn, howevei-. While it is melting, 
heat one pint milk, and stir a little at a time with the dissolved 
sugar. Then strain it, and when cool, pour it into the cream, 
well beaten. Then freeze. — 3Irs. IF. C. It. 

Chocolate Ice Cream. 

Half a pound sweet chocolate, twelve eggs, one gallon milk, 
two tablespoonfuls arrow-root, sugar and vanilla to the taste. 
Dissolve the chocolate in one pint and a half boiled milk. 
Whip the eggs. Mix the arrow-root in a little cold milk, and 
add to the egg& Then pour on one gallon boiled milk, and put 
on the fire to thicken. When cool, season and freeze. — Mrs. 
D. R. 

Chocolate Ice Creavi. 

Three quarts milk, eight eggs, six ounces chocolate dissolved 
in a pint of boiHng water, three heaping tablespoonfuls arrow- 
root well mixed in cold milk, one pound and a half of brown 



436 CHOCOLATE ICE CREAM WHITE ICE CREAM. 

sugar, vanilla to the taste. Made like custard, and boiled very 
thick— Miss D. D. 

Chocolate Ice Cream. 
One quart raoi'ning's milk, one-quarter of a pound chocolate, 
cuo teaspoonfiil vanilla, sugar to the taste. Boil as for table 
use. When ready to freeze, whip in one quart rich cream. 

CocoANUT Ice Cream. 
One pound grated cocoanut, one pound sugar, one pint cream. 
Stir the grated nut gradually into the cream. Boil gently, or 
merely heat it, so as to thoroughly get the flavor of the nut. 
Then pour the cream into a bowl and stir in the sugar. When 
cold, stir in three pints fresh cream, then freeze. 

Cocoanut Ice Cream. 
One cocoanut, pared and grated. Mix with a quart of cream, 
sweeten, and freeze. — Mrs. K. I. 

Cocoanut Ice Cream. 
One grated nut, three and a half quarts of milk, one pint of 
cream, two tablespoonfuls arrow-root mixed in a little cold milk. 
Sweeten to the taste, and freeze. — Mrs. D. H. 

Gelatine Ice Ckeam. 
Soak one-half package of Cox's gelatine in a pint of morn- 
ing's milk. Boil three pints of milk, and while hot, pour on the 
gelatine, stirring till dissolved. When cold, add two quarts of 
cream, and sweeten and season to your taste. Then freeze. It 
is im[)roved by whipping the cream before freezing. — Miss 

E. T. 

White Ice Cream. 

Three quarts milk, whites of four eggs beaten light, three 
tablespoonfuls arrow-root mixed in a little cold water and 
added to the eggs. Boil the milk and pour over the eggs, etc. 



ICE CKEAM WITHOUT CREAM — ^FUOZEN CUSTARD. 437 

Thon [)ut on the fire and thicken a little. "When nearly cold, 
add a quart of cream. Sweeten and season to the taste and 
freeze. — 3frs. I). R. 

Ice Cream without Cream. 
One gallon milk, yolks of two eggs well beaten, whites of 
twelve eggs well beaten. Sweeten and scald the milk, and 
pour it on the eggs, stirring all the time. Put it in the kettle 
again and let it come to a boil. Season to the taste and freeze at 
once. — Mrs. E. W. 

Bisque Ice Cream. 
One half-gallon of freshly turned clabber, one-half gallon rich 
sweet cream, one good vanilla bean boiled in one-half pint sweet 
milk, sugar to the taste. Churn this five minutes before freez- 
ing. One can of condensed milk may be used with less clabber. 
J/7^. H L. S. 

Buttermilk Cream. 
One gallon buttermilk, yolks of eight eggs, and whites of four, 
well beaten ; three pints sweet milk. Boil the sweet milk and 
})Our on the eggs ; then tliicken, stirring all the time. When 
cool stir in the buttermilk slowly, season and sweeten to the 
taste, then freeze. — Mrs. D. H. 

Caramel Custard {M-ozen). 
Make a rich custard, allowing a cup of nice brown sugar to 
every quart. Stew the sugar till it burns a little. Then mix 
it with the custard while both are hot. Boil two sticks cinna- 
mon in the custard. — Mrs. «/". «/". J3. 

Frozen Custard. 

One quart fresh milk, eight eggs, yolks and whites beaten 

iseparately. ]*ut the milk on the fire, sweetened to the taste, 

and let it come to boiling heat ; then take it off and add the 

yolks. Then wash the kettle and put the custard on the fire 



438 FROZEN CUSTARD — PLUM PUDDING GLACE. 

again, aud let it boil till quite thick. Take it off, and when 
cool enough, add the whites. Flavor with lemon or vanilla, 
and freeze. —Mis. C iV. 

JPh-ozen Custa/rd. 
Twelve eggs, one gallon milk, four lemons, sugar to taste, 
freeze. — \'Vs. Dr. S. 

Bisque. 

Make one-half gallon rich boiled custard, allowing six eggs to 
each quart. Add, before taking it from the fire, two pounds 
of macaroon almonds. When cold, freeze. — Mrs. A. P. 

Plumbi^re. 
Make a rich custard, and flavor it when cool with wine and 
extract of lemon. When half fiozen, add blanched almonds, 
chopped citron, brandy peaches cut up, and any othei" brandied 
or crystallized fruit. Make tlie freezer half full of custard and 
fill with fruit. 

Frozen Pudding. 
Forty blanched almonds pounded rather fine, one ounce 
citron cut in small squares, two ounces currants, two ounces 
I'aisins stoned and divided. Soak all in two wine-glasses wine, 
all night. Make custard of a pint of cream or milk. If cream, 
use yolks of four eggs ; if milk, yolks of eight eggs. Make a 
syrup of one pound white sugar and a pint of water. When 
nearly boiling, put in the fruit and wine and boil one minute. 
When cool, mix with the custard. Whip whites of the eggs to 
a stiff froth, and add to the custard and syrup after they are 
mixed. Add last a wine-glass of brandy. — Miss E. Wi 

Plum Pudding Glac^.. 
To one pint cream or new milk, stir in thoroughly two table- 
spoonfuls arrow-root. Boil three pints milk, aud wliile boiling 
add the cold cream and arrow-root, also three eggs well beaten, 
and sugar to the taste. When cold season with vanilla liean, 



CKEAM SHERBET A NKW RECIPE FOR LEINION SHERBET. 439 

aud stir iii half a ])Oiind cut citron, half a pound currants, 
half a pound raisins cut and seeded. Freeze hard and serve iu 
moulds. — ]\[rs. T. 

Cream Sherbet. 
Three quarts water, four lemons, whites of six eggs, one 
pound and two ounces sugai-, one pint sweet cream. Mix one- 
half the sugar with the cream and eggs, which miist be beaten to 
a stiff froth ; mix the rest of the sugar with the water and 
lemons. Mix all together just before freezing. — Mrs. A.. JP. 

Lemon Sherbet. 
Take one dozen lemons, squeeze out the juice, then slice the 
rind and pour over it six quarts boiling water. Mix thi-ee 
pounds sugar with the lemon juice, and one quart milk, brought 
to a boil and thickened with three tablespoonfuls arrow-root or 
corn-starch. Be careful to remove all the seed and most of the 
rind, leaving only a few slices to make the dish pretty. After 
the lemonade begins to freeze, stir in the tliickened milk, and 
the whites of six eggs beaten very light. 

Lemon Sherbet. 
One dozen good lemons, whites of twelve eggs beaten stiff, 
three pounds white sugar, one gallon water. Stir all well 
together and add one quart nice fresh cream. Stir often while 
freezing. — Miss E. T. 

Lemon Slierhet. 
Two qiiarts water, four large lemons, one pound and a half 
sugar, whites of six eggs. Rub some lumps )f sugar on the 
rind of the lemons. Powder some of the suj^ar, beat it with 
the whites of the eggs, and mix with the lemonade when it 
begins to fi-eeze. — Mrs. M. 

A new Recipe for Lemon Sherbet. 
Make one and a half gallon rather acid lemonade, grating 



440 ORANGE SHERBET PINEAPPLE ICE. 

the peel of three or four of the lemons before straining the 
juice into tl:e water. Let it stand fifteen minutes. Then make 
and add to it the following mixture : pour a pint cold water 
over one box gelatine and let it stand half an hour; then pour 
over it one pint boiling water, and let it stand till thorouglily 
dissolved. Beat the wliites of eight eggs with two pounds pul- 
verized sugar till as thick as icing; then churn a quart rich 
cream till it is i-educed to a pint; then beat the fioth of the 
cream into the egg and sugar. Pour in gradually the lemonade, 
beating all the time .so as to mix thoroughly, and then freeze. 
Delicious.— 3/rs. F. C W. 

Orange Sherbet. 
One gallon water, twelve oranges, juice of three lemons, 
wliites of six eggs. Rub some lumps of sugar on the orange 
peel. Mix as lemon sherbet, and freeze. — Mrs. M. 

Orange Ice. 

One dozen oranges, juice of two lemons, two quai'ts water; 
sugar to the taste. Hind of four oranges grated on sugar. 
Freeze as u-sual. — Mrs. Gr. D. L. 

Orange Ice. 

Juice of nine oranges, juice of one lemon, one and one-quar- 
ter pounds powdered sugar, two quarts water. To be frozen. — 
Mrs. I. H. 

Pineapple Ice. 

To a two-pound can of pineapples add three quarts water, 
half a box gelatine (prepared as for jelly), juice of two oranges, 
whites of four eggs. Remove the black and hard pieces of pine- 
apple, then pass it through the colander by beating with a po- 
tato-masher. Sweeten to your taste and freeze. — Mrs. I. H. 

Pineapple Ice. 
One large pineaj pie peeled and finely grated, juice of one 



PINEAPPLE ICE — GELATINE ICE. 441 

lemon, two quarts water. Sweeten to the taste, and freezn 
Imrd. -Mrs. G. D. L. 

Pineapple Ice. 

Dissolve one box gelatine in one gallon water. Beat two 
pounds })ineap2)le through a colander with a wooden pestle. 
Add the juice of two lemons and the juice of two oranges; 
sweeten to your taste, but add more sugar than is I'equired for 
ice cream. 

Beat six eggs separately and stir in the mixture. When hall 
frozen, beat rapidly half a dozen times, at intervals. 

This makes two gallons when frozen. — Mrs. E. T. 

Citron Ice. 
Slice citron, pour on it a rich, hot lemonade, and freeze. — 
Mrs. E.I. 

Raspberry Ice. 
Three quarts jviice, one quart water. Sweeten heavily, and 
after putting in the freezer add the whites of six eggs beaten 
vei'y light. The same recipe will answer for currant or cherry 
ice. — Mrs. M. C. C. 

Watermelon Ice {beautiful and delicious). 
Select a ripe and very red melon. Scrape some of the pulp 
and use all the water. A few of the seeds interspersed will add 
greatly to the appearance. Sweeten to tlie taste and freeze as 
you would any other ice. If you wish it very light, add the 
whites of three eggs, thoroughly whipped, to one gallon of the 
icing just as it begins to congeal. Beat frequently and very 
hard with a large iron spoon. — Mrs. J. d. 

Gelatine Ice. 
Let one ounce sparkling gelatine stand an hour in a pint of 
cold water. Then add three pints boiling water, one and one- 
half pounds loaf sugar, one and one-half pint wine, juice of 
19^ 



442 \MBROSIA PEACHES AND CREAM. 

three lemons, rind of two lemons. Stir all these iugiedienta 
and freeze before allowing it to congeal. Delicious. 

Ambrosia. 
Pare and slice as many oi-anges as you choose, in a glass bowl 
Sprinkle sugar and grated cocoauut over each layer. — ItTis. W. 
C. R. 

Ambrosia. 

Cut pineapple and orange in slices, sprinkle with sugar, and 
put in a deep dish alternately to form a pyramid. Put giated 
coJOiinut between each layer. If you like, pour good Madeira 
or sherry wine over the dish. — Mrs. T. 

Pineapple. 
Peel and slice thin, just befoi-e eating. Sprinkle pulverized 
sugar over it, but nothing else, as the flavor of this delicioiis 
fruit is impaired by adding other ingredients. Keej) on ice till 
wanted.— ilfrs. 8. T. 

Watermelons. 
Keep on ice till wanted. If lacking in sweetness, sprinkle 
powdered sugar over t\\Q\w.— Mrs. IS. T. 

Cantaleupes. 

Cut out carefully the end with. the stem, making a hole large 

enough to admit an apple. With a spoon, remove tlie seed. 

Fill with ice, replace the round ])iece taken out, and place on 

end. Eat with powdered sugar, salt, and pepper. — 3'Frs. S. T. 

Peaches and Cream. 
While the first course is being served, peaches should be 
pared and split, and the stones removed. Lay in a glass bowl 
and sprinkle liberally with powdered sugar. No fruit should 
be sweetened till just before eating. Ornament tlie eilges ot 
tlie bowl with any handsome, glossy leaves convenient, and 
serve with cream. — Mrs. S. T. 



stllawberries ^pkeserves and fruit jellies. 443 

Strawberries 
Should never be washed unless sand or earth adheres to 
them. Cap carefully while the first course is being served, or, 
if more convenient, you may cap in the morning, but never 
sweeten till just before eating, as sweetening long beforehand 
extracts the juice and makes the fri\it tough. Set it on ice, or 
in a refrigerator. No ice must be put on fruit. Serve with 
cream that has been set on ice. Decorate the edges of the bowl 
with strawberry leaves. 

The same directions will apply to raspberries, blackberries, 
and dewberries. Whortleberries may be washed, picked, and 
drained, tliough not sweetened till dinner. — Mrs. 8. T. 



PRESERVES AND FRUIT JELLIES. 

Always make preserves in a porcelain or brass kettle. If the 
latter, have it scoured first with sand, then with salt and vine- 
gar. Then scald it and put in the sugar and water for the 
syrup. 

In peeling fruit, throw it into cold water to keep it from 
turning dark, and let it remain there till you are ready tn 
throw it in the boiling syrup. Bear in mind that exposui-e to 
the air turns peeled fruit dark. 

Boil rather quickly. In preserving fruit whole, boil it a 
short time in the syrup, take it out, let it get cold, and then 
put it again in the kettle. 

Cut sugar is best for preserves which you wish to be clear 
and light-colored, but nice brown sugar is best for dark-colored 
jams and marmalades, such as those made of blackberries, rasp- 
berries, whortleberries, etc. 

The best peaches for preserving, brandy ing, or pickling, are 
white freestone peaches, not quite ripe enough to eat with 



444 SWEETMEAT PRESERVES. 

cream. Pears and quinces also should be preserved before the} 
are quite ripe enough for eating. They should be parboiled 
before eating. No fruit should be over-ripe when preserved. 
Damsons and blue plums should be slit lengthwise with a pen 
knife, and set in the sun before preserving, which will render 
it easy to extract the stones. Cherries also should be stoned 
before preserving. A piece of paper dipped in brandy and laid 
:,ji top the preserves will helj) to keep them. I would suggest 
to housekeepers that they always put their preserves in glass 
jars with screw tops. By this means they can readily inspect 
it and see if it is keeping well, without the trouble of untying 
the jar and looking inside, as would be necessary in the case of 
stone jars. 

Set the jar of preserves, if they become dry or candied, in a 
pot of cold water, which allow to come gradually to a boil. If 
the preserves ferment, boil them over with more sugar. 

The great secret of making nicefruit jelly is to boil the syrup 
well before adding the sugar (which should always be loaf or 
cut), and you should allow a pound of sugar to a pint of the 
juice in acid fruit jellies, though less will answer for sweet 
fruit. By boiling the symip well before adding the sugar, the 
flavor and color of the fruit are i-etained. Keep the jelly iu 
small, common glasses. 

Sweetmeat Preserves. 

Cut the rind in any shapes fancied (such as flowers, fruits, 
leaves, grapes, fish, etc.), put it in brine strong enough to float 
an egg, cover closely with grape leaves, and set away the jar. 
"When ready to make the preserves, soak the rind in fresh 
water, changing it till all taste of salt is removed from the rind. 
Dissolve four tablespoonfuls pulverized alum in one gallon 
water. Lay the rind in this, covered closely with grape or 
cabbage leaves. Simmei till it becomes a pretty green, then 
Boak out the alum by throwing the rind in soft water. 

Pour boiling water on half a pound white ginger, and let it 



WATERMELON OR MDSKMELON MARMALADE, 445 

stand long enough to soften sufficiently to slice easily in thin 
pieces (retaining the shapes of the ra^es as much as possible). 
Then boil it an hour in half a gallon water, and add one ounce 
mace and two pounds best cut sugar. This makes a thin synip, 
in which boil the rind gently for half an hour, adding water to 
keep the rind covered with syrup. 

Set the kettle away for four days and then boil again as be- 
fore, adding two pounds sugar and more water, if necessary. 
Repeat the boiling six or seven times, till the syrup is rich and 
thick and sufficient to cover the rind. 

The quantity of seasoning given above is for three gallons 
rind. Allow two pounds sugar to each pound fruit. This 
sweetmeat keeps indefinitely and never ferments. — Mrs. JF. M. C. 

Watermelon or Muskmelon Marmalade. 

Weigh twelve pounds rind, previously soaked in brine, and 
the salt extracted by fresh water, parboil, put on with twelve 
pounds sugar made into a thin syrup, and boil to pieces. Add 
the peelings of twelve oranges and twelve lemons, previously 
soaked in water, cut in strips and boiled extrmeley soft, the 
water being changed three times while boiling. Stir con 
stantly frumthe bottom with a battei'-cake turner. Cook very 
thick. Put in wide-mouthed glass jars — Mrs. S. T. 

Ripe Muskmelon or Watermelon Preserves. 
During the summer, peel and slice indifferent cautaleupes 
(such as you do not care to eat), especially such as are not quite 
ripe. Throw them into brine, together with your thickest wa- 
termelon rinds, peeling off the outside skin. When you have 
enough, weigh them, throw them in fresh water, which change 
daily tilj the salt is extracted. Boil in a preserving kettle till 
soft enough to pierce with a straw. Make a syrup, allowing 
one pound sugar for each pound fruit. When it boils, put the 
rind in it and simmer steadily till the rind is transparent and 
the syrup thick. When cool, add the juice and grated rind of 



44:6 RIPE MtfSKMELON PKESERVES — ORANGE PRESERVES. 

twelve lemons. Let it stand in a bowl several days. Then 
strain the syrup (which will have become thin), boil it again, 
pour over the rind, and put the preserves in glass jars with 
screw tops. — Jifrs. /S. T. 

Ripe Muskmelon Preserves. 

Peel and slice the melons, soak them twenty-four hours in 
salt water, twenty-four hours in alum water, and twenty-four 
Lours in fresh water, changing the latter several times. Then 
make a strong ginger tea, in which boil them slowly till they 
taste of ginger. 

Make a syrup, allowing a pound and a half sugar to each 
pound fruit, and adding mace and sliced ginger (the latter 
must be soaked in boiling water twelve hours before it is wanted). 
Cook the melon in the syrup till clear and tender. You may 
use sliced lemons as a seasoning instead of ginger. — Mrs. R. L. 

Pineapple Preserves. 
Parboil the pineapples, then peel and cut in thick slices, 
carefully taking out the cores, which, if allowed to remain, will 
cause the preserves to ferment. Put a pound of sugar to a 
pound of fruit, and let it remain all night to make the syrup. 
Boil then till done, without adding a drop of water to the syrup. 

—Mrs. F. a 

Orange Preserves. 
Peel a thin rind oiF the oranges and make a hole in each end, 
getting out all the seed. Pour boiling water over them and let 
them stand till next morning. If the water tastes bitter, seai'cli 
for seed. Pour boiling water over them every day, as long as 
the bitterness remains. Boil till soft enough to run a straw 
thi'ough them. Add a pound and a half sugar to each pound 
fruit. IVIake a thin syrup of half the sugar, and boil the oranges 
in it a short time. Let them stand in the syrup three days, 
then j)our the syruj from the fruit, put the lest of the sugar to 



ORANGE MARMALADE SLICED LEMON PRp:SERVE8. 441 

it, and boil it down thick. Then pour it over the fruit. A 
few lemons added is a great improvement. — Mrs. tT. H. 

Orange Marmalade. 

Peel the oranges, taking all the seed and tough skin out of 
tliera. Cut the peel in small pieces, put in cold water and boil 
till tender. Make a syrup, one pound sugar to one pint water. 
Put a pound of the oranges (mixed with the peel) to a pint of 
the syruj), and boil all for two hours. — Mrs. G. G. McJP. 

Orange Marm.ala<le. 

The day before making, peel one dozen oi-anges (no matter 
how sour and indifferent). Throw the peel in a bucket of 
water, take out the seed, cut up the pulp fine with a pair of 
old scissors. Then take the peel, cut it in thin strips and throw 
it into fresh water. Pare and slice pippins (or any other nice 
iipple). Weigh six pounds of them, stew with a little water till 
pei^octly done, and set away. Next day, run this pulp through 
a co\a,nder into a preserving kettle. Add !six pounds sugar and 
boil .vi'owly, constantly scraping from the bottom. 

Taji3 the orange peel (which should have been left in soak all 
nightj, boil till perfectly soft and free from bitterness, changing 
the w.iter three times while boiling. In another preserving 
kettle, simmer this with the orange pulp and two pounds sugar. 
When both are nearly done, turn the oranges into the apples 
and cook them very thick. Cool in a bowl, and then put in a 
glass jar with a screw top. — Mrs. S. T. 

Sliced Lemon Preserves. 
Take large, firm lemons, not quite ripe, cut in slices one- 
quarter inch thick, and take out the seed. Soak in brine a week. 
Then soak several days in clear water, changing the water twice 
a day. When all the salt and the bitter taste are extracted, 
weigh the lemons and boil till tender enough to pierce with a 
straw. Make a tJiin syrup, allowing one pound of sugar to 



448 LEMON MARMALADE PEACH PRESERVES, 

each pound of fruit. Put the lemons in and let them simmei 
slowly a good many hours. Pour into a large bowl and let it 
remain there several days. At the end of that time strain the 
syrup (which will have become thin), put the lemons in it 
again, and boil till they jelly. When cool put in a glass jar 
with a screw top. The same recipe may be used for oranges. — 
Mrs. S. T. 

Lemon Marmalade. 

Every housekeeper should keep a large jar, or other nice 
vessel, tilled with brine, in which she may throw lemon peels 
after being deprived of the grated rind and juice, used for 
creams, jellies, etc. These may remain any length of time, to 
suit one's convenience. Before preserving, soak in pure water 
till all the taste of salt is extracted. Boil till soft enough to 
pierce with a straw. Then put in a preserving kettle nine 
poxmds cut sugar and one quart water. As soon as it boils, add 
six pounds lemon peel and three pounds nice sliced apples 
(pippins are best). Boil till vei-y thick. — Mrs. /S. T. 

Lemon Preserves 
May be made of lemon peel, prepai-ed exactly by the above 
recipe. Put the peel in a preserving kettle and keep covered, 
while boiling in clear water, till you can run a straw through 
it. Then throw it into a rich syrup (one pound sugar to one 
of lemon peel), and boil a long time. Put in a bowl till the 
next day ; then take the syrup (which will be somewhat thin) 
and boil again till very thick. Pour it over the lemon, and when 
cold it will be jellied.— Jfr^. ,S'. T. 

Peach Preserves. 
Pare white freestone peaches, not quite ripe. Split in lialf, 
lake out the stones, and throw the i)eaches in a bucket of water 
to prevent them from turning dark. Make a syrup of white 
sugar, using as many pounds of sagar as you have pounds of 
peaches. When it has boiled thick, put in as many peaches at 



PKACH PRESERVES — 15RANDY PEACHES. 449 

will cover the bottom of the kettle. Let them boil till nearly 
done ; then take them out, one by one, in a perforated spoon. 
Lay them in dishes and set in the sun. When all the peaches 
have been carried through this process, put back the first dish 
of peaches in the kettle, taking them out when a pretty amber 
color, and so on till all have been boiled twice. Meantime the 
peach-kernels should have been scalded and skinned. Put them 
in the boiling syrup, which must be kept on the fire till very 
thick. Put the peaches when cool in glass jars, and pour the 
syrup over them. In a few days examine, and if the syrup has 
become thin, boil again. — Mrs. S. T. 

Peach Preserves. 
Pare, and add to a pound of peaches one and one-quarter 
pounds best sugar. Cook very fast for a few moments, in a 
porcelain kettle. Turn out in a bowl, cover with muslin or 
cambric, set in the sun, stirring every day till they seem quite 
transparent. They retain their flavor much better this way than 
when cooked on the fire. Put in jars, cover with paper saturated 
with brandy, and tie up tightly to exclude the air. — Mrs. P. W. 

Peach Marmalade. 
Boil twelve pounds soft peaches in a little water. When re- 
duced to a pulp, run through a colander and boil again till very 
thick, constantly scraping from the bottom. Add half a pound 
sugar to one pound fruit. Cool in a bowl, and then put in glass 
jars with screw tops. Pear marmalade may be made by tJie 
same recipe, and also apple marmalade, except that you flavor 
the last with lemon juice and rind. — -Mrs. S. T. 

Brandy Peaches. 

For t\^ elve pounds large freestone Heath peaches, not quite 

ripe and delicately pared, make a syrup of four pounds sugar. 

Scald a few peaches at a time in the syrup, till all have gone 

through 'jhis process. Place on dishes to cool. Then put in 

38 



450 BRANDY PEACHES CRAB APPLE PRESERV lOS, 

glass jai's and add enough good whiskey or brandy to the syiup 
to cover the peaches. Any spirit will do, if strong enough. 
Add a few blanched peach -kernels. In a few days see if more 
liquor or sugar is required. If so, drain oif the syrup, add what 
is needed, and pour again over the fruit. It is a mistake to put 
too much sugar. Always use freestone peaches. — 3frs. S. T, 

JBrandy Peaches. 
Put the peaches (a few at a time) in boiling lye. Let them 
remain five minutes, to loosen the fur. Then take them out and 
wipe perfectly clean and white. Then drop them in cold water. 
Boil them gently in a rich syrup till a straw will pierce them. 
Then put in a jar, and mix equal parts of French brandy with 
the syrup. Carefully exclude the air. — Mrs. Gr. N. 

Pear Preserves. 
Scald the fruit, but do not let it remain till it comes to 
pieces. Boil till clear, in a syrup made of as many pounds of 
sugar as you have of fruit. — Mrs. J. tT. A. 

Preserved Apples for "Winter Use. 
Pare and slice pippins. Put to each pound apples half a 
pound sugar, and to every eight pounds thus sweetened one 
quart water, a few cloves, the thin rind and juice of a lemon. 
Stew till clear, and cat with cream. — Mrs. H. e/l M. 

Apple Mange. 
Stew and mash well three pounds j)i}jpins, then add three 
pounds sugar. Just before tlicy are done, add a few drops 
lemon juice. Put in moulds and it will keep two years. 
Turned out and sliced, it is a nice dish for tea. Qtiirces are as 
nice as apples, prepared this way. — Mrs. S. J". S. 

Crab Apple Pjieserves. 
Put the crab apples in a kettle, with some alum, keeping 



QUINCE JAM OIIEUKY PKKSKRVES. 451 

them scalding hot for an hour. Take them out, skin and ex- 
tx-act the seed with a small knife, leaving on the stems. Put 
them in cold water awhile, then take them out, wipe them and 
put them in a syrup made of as many pouuds sugar as you have 
of fruit. Let them stew gently till they look clear, then take 
them out and let tlie syrup boil longer. Siberian crabs may bo 
preserved in the same way, except that they are not peeled and 
cored. 

Quince Jam. 

Pour boiling water over them and let them remain till the 
skin rubs off easily. Then peel them and cut off the fair slices. 
To each pound put twelve ounces sugar, and let them stew 
together till the syrup is sufficiently thick. 

Quince preserves may be made by the same recipe as that 
used for pears. 

Damson Preserves. 

With a sharp penknife, cut a long slit lengthwise in each dam- 
son. Spread in dishes and set in the sun till the seed comes 
out readily. Then boil till thoroughly done in a thick syrup 
made of as many pouuds sugar as there are pounds of damsons. 

Preserve green gage plums and other plums by the same 
r<!cipe, — Jfiss P. 

Fox Grape Preserves. 

Seed the gi'apes, then pour scalding water on them and let 
them stand till cold ; then di-aw off the water, put one pound 
sugar to one pound of grapes, and boil gently about twenty min- 
utes. — Mrs. A. B. 

Cherry Preserves. 

Wash, pick and stone the cherries, saving the juice. Allow 
one pound sugar to each pound fruiv. Boil the juice and sugar 
to .a thick syrup, then put in half the cherries and stew till 
nearly done. Take them out with a perforated spoon and lay 
on dishes. Pat in the other half, let them stew as long as the 
first ; then take out and lay iu dishes. Meantime boil the syruf 



^52 8TEAWBERRY PRESERVES FIG PRESERVES. 

gently. When the cherries are cool, put them again in the syrup 
and boil a short time. Pour in a large bowl and cool, then put 
in glass jars and cover tightly. 

Scarlet short stems and large wax cherries are best for pre- 
serving. — Mrs. S. T. 

Strawberry Preserves. 

Caj) the Vjerries. Put one and a half pounds sugar to each 
pound fruit. Let them stand two or three hours, and then boil 
thirty minutes. 

Strawberry Jam. 

Cap and wash the berries, and put them on to stew with a very 
small quantity of water. Stir constantly. When thoroughly 
done and mashed to a soft pulp, add one pound sugar to each 
pound fruit. The advantage of addiug sugar last is that it pre- 
serves the color and flavor of the fruit. Stew till suflSciently 
thick, scraping constantly from the bottom with a batter-cake 
turner. — Mrs. iS. T. 

Raspberry Jam. 

Wash and pick the berries, boil with a little water, mashing 
and sci'aping from the bottom as they simmer. When reduced 
to a thick pulp, add one-half pound sugar to each pound berries. 
Stew till very thick, scraping constantly from the bottom. Cool 
in a large bowl, then put in a glass jar with screw top. Black- 
berry, Dewberry, and Whortleberry Jam may be made by the 
same recipe. 

Fig Preserves. 
Pick the figs fully ripe the evening before. Cut off about 
half the stem, and let them soak all night in very weak salt and 
water. Drain off the salt water in the morning and cover them 
with fresh. Make a thick syrup, allowing three-quarters pound 
loaf sugar to each pound fruit. When it boils, drop the fig.s 
carefully in and let them cook till they look clear. When done 
take from the fire and season with extract of lemon or "ringer. 



TOMATO PRESERVES PRECIPE FOR PUTTING UP FRUIT. 453 

The figs must not be peeled, as the salt water removes the 
roughness from the skin and keeps the fruit firm and hard. — 
Miss A. S. 

Tomato Preserves (either ripe or green). 

The 3ay before preserving, peel and weigh eight pounds pale 
J allow, pear-shaped or round tomatoes, not quite ripe; spread 
on dishes alternate layers of tomato and sugar, mixing with the 
latter the grated rind and juice of four lemons. In the morn- 
ing, drain off the juice and sugar and boil to a thick syrup. 
Drop in half the tomatoes and boil till transparent. Take up 
with a perforated spoon and put on dishes to cool. Then carry 
the other half through exactly the same process. Then strain 
the juice, wash the kettle, and put in the juice again. When it 
boils hard, put in again the first boiled tomatoes. Take them 
oixt when they become amber color, and put in the rest. When 
they are all boiled to an amber color, and cooled on dishes, put 
them in half-gallon glass jars, and add the syrup after it has 
been boiled to a thick jelly. — Mrs. S. T. 

Green Tomato Sweetmeats. 
Slice the tomatoes and soak them a day and night in salt and 
water, then in fresh water for an hour or two, then scald in 
alum water with grape leaves. When taken out of alum water, 
put in cold water to cook. Scald in ginger-tea and again put 
in cold water, while you make the syrup. To each pound toma- 
toes put one and a quarter pounds sugar and a few races of 
white ginger. Cook the tomatoes till clear, the syrup till thick. 
When cool, season the syrup with essence of lemon and pour 
over the tomatoes. — 3frs. C. M. 

Recipe for putting up Fruit. 

For fruit not very acid, weigh one-quarter of a pound white 

sugar to one poiind fruit perfectly ripe. After sprinkling the 

fruit with sugar, pvit it in a preserving kettle and let it just 

com(j to a boil. Then put it quickly in glass self-sealing cans, 



154: CANDIED FBUIT CURRANT JELLY WITHOUT COOKING. 

being careful to screw down the tops tightly. — Mrs. Dr. E. 
T.R. 

Candied Fruit. 

Preserve the fruit, then dip it in sugar boiled to a candied 
thickness, and dry it. Grapes and some other fruits may be 
dipped in uncooked. 

Lemon Conserves. 

Wash and dry ten lemons. Pare the yellow rind off clear of 
the white, and beat it in a mortar with double its weight of 
sugar. Pack closely in a jar and cover with part of the sugar. 

—Mrs. r. 

Orange Conserves. 
Cut the peel in long, thin strips, and stew in water till all 
bitterness is extracted. Drain off this water and stew again in 
a thick syrup, allowing one pound sugar to each pound peel. 
Put away in a cool place for flavoring puddings, pies, etc. 

Peach Conserves. 

Pare the peaches and cut them ftom the stone in thick slices. 
Make a syrup, allowing three-quarters pound sugar to each 
pound fruit. Boil the peaches and put them on dishes to dry. 
As they dry, roll them in granulated sugar, and pack in jars or 
boxes. — Mrs. W. P. 

Golden Syrup. 

Five pounds white sugar ; one quart water. Let it boil two 
or three miniites, then add two pounds strained honey. It will 
keep for months. — Mrs. D. C. 

Blaukbekky Jelly. 
Crush one quart blackberries with one pound best loaf sugar. 
Cook it over a gentle fire till thick, then add one gill best brandy. 
Stir it while over the fire, then [)ut it in pots. — Mrs. E. 

Currant Jklly without cooking. 
Press the juice fio.u the currants and strain it. To one pint 



CUKRANT JELLY APPLP: JELLY. 455 

juice put one pound white sugar. Mix together till the sugar 
is dissolved. Then put them in jars, seal them and expose them 
to a hot sun two or three days. — Mrs. E. 

Currant Jelly. 

Pick ripe currants from the stem, and put them in a stone 
jai\ Then set the jar in an iron pot and let the fruit boil till 
the juice is extracted. Pour in a flannel bag and let it drip 
through — without squeezing, however, as this makes it cloudy. 

To each pint of juice add one pound good white sugar. Boil 
about twenty minutes and keep it well skimmed. Put in the 
glasses while hot, and sun daily. — Mrs. P. JV. 

Cranberry Jelly. 
Wash and pick the cranberries, put them in the preserving 
kettle with a very small quantity of water, cover closely and 
stew till done. Pour through a jelly bag oi- coarse towel, with- 
out squeezing, as this will prevent it from being clear. Measure 
and pour the liquid into the preserving kettle. Let it boil up 
and remove the scum, then add the sugar, cut or loaf, one pound 
to a pint. Boil about twenty minutes, or until it jellies. It 
preserves the color of fruit jellies to add the sugar as late as 
possible, — Jifrs. S. T. 

Apple Jelly. 
Take half a peck of pippin apples, wash them clean, slice 
them from the core, put them in a preserving kettle with a 
quart of water. Boil till entirely soft, then strain through a 
flannel bag. To each pint of juice add one pound white sugar 
and the juice of three lemons. Boil till jellied. Do not stir 
v-hile boiling. — Mrs. P. W. 

Apple Jelly. 
Pare and stew sour, juicy apples (Greenings are best), in 
enough water to cover them. Strain as for cuirant jelly. 



456 APPLE JELLY — ORANGE JELLY. 

Allow a pound of sugar for eacli pound of juice. Put tliem 
togetlier and strain. Boil four or five minutes, skimming thor- 
oughly. — Mrs. M. B. B. 

Apple J'elly. 
Take any number of juicy apples, put them in a porcelain 
kettle, and boil to rags. Then strain them through a cloth or 
sieve. Put a pound of loaf sugar to each pint of the juice, and 
boil till it jellies. Flavor with the seed beaten in a mortar, 
and put in while the apples are cooking. — Mrs. G. W. 

Crab Apple Jelly. 
Slice the apples, take out the cores and seed, as they make the 
jelly bitter. Put them in a kettle cover with water, and boil 
till quite soft, keeping it well skimmed. Pour the pulp in a 
jelly bag, and let it drip through. To each pint of juice, add 
one pound and a half of sugar. Pour in the glasses while hot. 
Delicious with meats. — Mrs. P. W. 

Quince Jelly. 
Make the same as apple jelly, only do not pare or core the 
fruit, as much of the jelly is contained in those parts. Or, you 
may take the sound parings and cores, stew them and strain 
the liquor twice, and you will have a jelly as nice as that 
made from the fruit. To each pound of juice allow one pound 
of sugar. Boil fifteen minutes. — Mrs. M. B. B. 

Orange Jelly. 
Grate the rinds of two Seville and two China oranges, and 
two lemons. Squeeze the juice of six oranges and three lemons. 
Add one and a quarter pounds of loaf sugar and one-quarter of a 
pint of water, and boil till it jellies. Have ready a quart of 
isinglass jelly, made quite stiff. Put it to the syrup and let it 
boil up once. Then strain it and put it in a mould. — A/rn. V. 
P. M. 



jelly oranges — grape jelly. 457 

Jelly Okanges. 
Dissolve one package gelatine in one cup cold water, after- 
wards adding two cups boiling water to thoroughly dissolve it. 
Add then three cups white sugar, one-quarter teaspoonful cin- 
namon, grated rind of three oranges, juice of twelve fine 
oranges. Strain through a flannel bag into a pitcher, without 
shaking or squeezing. Extract the pulp from the orange, by 
making a hole in one end of it large enough to admit a mus- 
tard spoon. Soak the rind a few hours, and then pour the 
jelly into each orange through the whole at the end. Then set 
aside to congeal. Gai*nish with orange leaves. Cut each 
orange in two. A very ornamental dish. — Mrs. McG. 

Green Grape Jelly. 
Gather Catawba grapes before ripening. Pick them from 
the stem, wash them, and put them in a stone jar. Set the 
jar in a kettle of cold water over a hot fire. When the juice 
comes out of the grapes, take the kettle off and strain the 
grapes. To each pint of juice put one pound of the best loaf 
sugar. Boil twenty minutes in the kettle. Ripe grape jelly 
may be made in the same way. — Mrs. E. 

Grape Jelly. 
The chief art in making jelly is to boil it continuously, slowly 
and gently. It will not harden well if the boiling stops, even 
for a few moments. To preserve the true color and flavor of 
fruit in jellies or jams, boil well before adding the sugar; in 
this way the water contained in all fiuit juices is evaporated. 
Heat the sugar before adding it. In making grape jelly, pick 
the grapes from their stems, wash them, put them over the fire 
in a vessel containing a little water, to keep them from burn- 
ing. Stew a few moments; mash gently with a silver spoon, 
strain, and to every pint of juice, allow one pound of white 
suga'- After the juice comes to the boiling point, boil twenty 

311 



'158 REMEDY FOR MOULDINESS IN FRUIT JELLIES. 

minutes, pour it over the heated sugar, aud stii constantly till 
all is dissolved. Then fill the jelly glasses. — J. I. M. 

Remedy foii Mouldiness in Fruit Jellies. 

Fruit jellies may be preserved from mouldiness by covering 
the surface one- quarter of an inch deep with fimely pulverized 
loaf sugar. Thus ])rotected, they will keep for years. — 3Irs. 11. 
<J.M. W. 

Tomato Jelly. 

Take ripe tomatoes, peel them carefully, cutting out all the 
seams and rough places. To every pound put half a pound of 
sugar. Season with white ginger and mace. Boil to a stiff 
jelly, then add enough good cider vinegar to keep it. — Mrs. 
Dr. P. O. 

Sugar Candy. 

Two cu2)fuls sugar, one cupful water, one wincglassful vine- 
gar, one tablespoonfiil butter. Cook ten or fifteen minutes. — 
Mrs. Dr. J. 

Sugar Candy. 
Three cupfuls sugar, half a cupful vinegar, half a cuj)ful water, 
juice of one lemon. Boil without stirring, till biitlle. Pour 
on a buttered dish aud pull till white and light. — Mrs. McG. 

Sugar Kisses. 

Whisk the whites of four eggs to a stiff froth and stir in half 
a pound sifted white sugar. Flavor as you like. Lay it when 
stiff in heaps the size of a small egg, on white papei-. Lay on a 
board half an inch thick and i)ut in a hot oven. When a little 
jellowish, slip off two of the kisses with a knife and join the 
bottom parts together. Continue till all are tims ])reparf-d. — 
Mrs. E. 

Nut Candy. 

Make sugar cand^' b\ one of the foregoing i-r>ctipcs, but instead 



C^EAM CANDY OAKAMELS. 451' 

of pouriiig it into a dish, drop it at intervals over a buttered 
dish. On each bit of candy thus dropped, lay half the kernel of 
an English walnut, and when a little cool, pour half a spoonful 
of sugar candy on top. Candy of almonds, pecans, or palm nutd 
may be made by the same recipe. — Mrs. S. T. 

Cream Candy. 
Two pounds of sugar, half a cup water, two tablespoonfuls 
vinegar, one tablespoonful butter. Boil twenty minutes. Sea- 
son with lemon or vanilla, just as you take it off. Put in a 
dish and stir till cold. — Mrs. McN. 

Molasses Candy. 
Boil one quart molasses in a rather deep vessel. Boil stead- 
ily, stirring from sides and bottom. When a little, poured in a 
glass of cold water, becomes brittle, it is done. Pour in a but- 
tered dish and pull as soon as cool enough to handle, or you 
.may stir in, when it is nearly done, some picked kernels of the 
common black walnut. Boil a little longer, pour on a buttered 
dish, and cut in squares just before it gets cold. — Mrs. S. 2\ 

Caramels. 

One cake (half a pound) of Baker's chocolate broken up, 
four pounds brown sugar, half a pound fresh butter, one pint 
of milk. Pour the milk in a preserving kettle and pour the 
other ingredients into this. Let it boil at least half an hour, 
stirring frequently. When done, a crust of sugar will form on 
the spoon and on the side of the kettle. Pour in a large table- 
spoonful extract of vanilla, take from the fire and stir rapidly 
till it begins to thicken like mush. Then pour quickly into 
buttered dishes or pans, and when nearly cold cut into small 
squares. — Mrs. S. T. 

Caramels. 
Three pounds white sugar, half a pound of chocolate, one pint 



460 CHOCOLATIC CARAMELS COGOANUT BALLS. 

milk, six ounces of biitter. Boil three-quarters of an hour aud 
stir constantly.— J/rs. H. C 

CuocoLATE Caramels. 
Two and one-half po\;nds of sugar, three-quarters pound of 
chocolate, one quarter pound of butter, half a pint of milk or 
Cienm.—Mrn. W. C. li. 

Cream Chocolate. 
One cupful of cream, with enough white sugar to thicken it. 
Boil till thick, and when cold, roll up in little balls and put 
tliem on a dish on which has been poured some melted choco- 
late. Then pour over them with a spoon some melted choco- 
late. When quite cool, cut apart aud trim oti" the edges, if 
uneven. This cream should be seasoned with a few drops of 
vanilla and the dish should be buttered. — 3Iiss iV^. 

CocoANUT Caramels. 
One-quarter pound Baker's chocolate (half cake), one-quarter 
pound butter, two pounds nice brown sugar, one teacup rich 
milk. Stew half an hour or till thick. Add a grated cocoanut. 
Stir till it begins to boil again. Take from the fire, stir in a 
tablespoonful vanilla, and pour into buttered dishes. When 
cool enough to handle, make into balls, the size of a walnut and 
place on buttered dishes. — 3frs. /S. 7\ 

Cocoanut Caramels. 
Pour a teacup of boiling milk over one-cpiarter cake of 
pounded chocolate. Let it steep an liour, then add one and one- 
quarter pounds of white sugar, and the milk of a cocoanut. Boil 
till perfectly done. Then remove from the lire, adding the grated 
cocoxnut. Season with vanilla, pour in buttered dishes, and cut 
in blocks.— Jlfy-s. W. C. 

Cocoanut Bal" s. 
Wet two pounds of sugar with the milk of a cocoanut. Boil 



COCOANUT DKOPS — WINE. 461 

and stii- til] it begins to granulate. Then stir in the cocoanut 
grated fine. Boil a short time longer, then pour into buttared 
dishes, and as soon as it can be handled make into balls. — 3frs. 
J.M. 

Cocoanut Drops. 
The white part of a grated cocoanut, whites of four eggs 
well beaten, one-half pound sifted white sugar. Flavor with 
rose water or lemon. Mix all as thick as can be stirred ; lay in 
heaps half an inch apart, on paper or on a baking-pan, in a hot 
oven. Take them out when they begin to look yellowish. — 
Mrs. R. 

Almond Macaroons. 
One-half pound almonds, blanched and pounded, with a tea- 
spoonful essence of lemon, till a smooth paste. Add an equal 
quantity of sifted white sugar and the whites of two eggs. 
Work well together with a spoon. Dip yovir hand into water 
and work them into balls the size of a nutmeg. Lay them on 
white paper an inch apart, then dip your hand in watei and 
smooth them. Put them in a slow oven for three-quarters of 
an liour. Cocoanut may be used instead of almonds. — Mrs. M 

a. H. 



WINE. 

Be sure to get perfectly ripe fruit for making wine, but do 
not gather it immediately after rain, as it is watery then and 
less sweet than usual. 

Be very careful to stop the wine securely as soon as fermen- 
tation ceases, as otherwise it will lose its strength and flavor. 
Watch carefully to see when fermentation ceases. 

Strawberry wine makes a delicious flavoring for syllabub, 
cake, jelly, etc., and so does gooseberry wine. Dewberries 



462 BLACKBKKRY WINE. 

make a prettier and better wine than blackberries, and have all 
the medicinal virtues of the latter. 

The clearest wine is made without straining, by the following 
process : Take a tub or barrel (a flour-barrel for instance), and 
make a little pen of sticks of wood at the bottom. On top of 
this pen lay an armful of clean straw. Bore a hole in the 
side of the tub or bai-rel as near f^he bottom as possible, and set 
it on a stool or box so as to admit of setting a vessel underneath 
it. After mashing the berries intended for wine, put them c>n top 
the straw, and let the juice di-ain through it and run through the 
hole at the side of the tub or barrel into the vessel set beneath 
to catch it. Be careful to have this vessel large enough to 
avoid its being overrun. Any open stone vessel not used be- 
fore for pickle will answer, or a bucket or other wooden vessel 
may be used. Let the berries remain on the sti'aw and drain 
from evening till the next morning. Some persons make a 
slight variation on the process above described, by pouring hot 
water over the berries after putting them on the straw. After 
the draining is over, an inferior sort of wine may be made by 
squeezing the berries. 

The following process will make wine perfectly clear : To a 
half-gallon of wine put two wine-glasses of sweet milk. Stir 
it into the wine and pour it all in a transparent half-gallon bottle. 
Stop it and set it by for twenty four hours, at the end of which 
time the wine will be beautifully clear, the sediment settling 
with the milk at the bottom. Pour off the wine carefully into 
another bottle, not allowing any of the sediment or milk to get 
into the fresh bottle. The same directions apply to vinegar. 

Blackberry Wine. 
Fill large stone jars with ripe black or dewberries. Cover 
lliym with water, mash thorn, and let them stand several hours, 
or, if freshly gathered, lot them stand all night. Then sti'ain 
through a thick cloth and add three pounds white sugar to each 
gallon of juice. Let the wino stand a fov days in the jars. 



BLACKBERRY AVINE. 463 

stirring and skimming each day. Put it in a demijohn, but 
do not cork it up for some time. — Mrs. M. D. 

blackberry Wine. 
Measure the berries and bruise them ; to every gallon adding 
one quart of boiling water. Let it stand twenty-four hours, 
stiri mg Occasionally ; then strain off the liquor into a cask, add- 
ing two pounds sugar to every gallon. Cork tight and let it 
stand till the following October, when it will be ready for use 
without further boiling or straining. 

J3lackherry Wine. 
One bushel very ripe berries makes ten gallons wine. Mash 
the berries as fine as possible and pour over them a water-bucket 
of clear spring water. Cover it and let it stand twenty-four 
hours to ferment. Next day strain through a cloth, and to every 
three quarts juice add two quarts clear cold water and five 
pounds common brown sugar. Pour in a demijohn or runlet, 
reserving some to fill the vessel as fermentation goes on. After 
six or eight days, put to every ten gallons one-half box gelatine. 
After two weeks, cover the bung-hole with a piece of muslin. 
Two or three weeks later, cork tightly and then leave undisturb- 
ed for six months. After that time, bottle and seal. Superior 
currant wine may be made by this recipe. — Mrs. F. 

^Blackberry Wine. 
Fill a large stone jar with the ripe fruit and cover it with 
water. Tie a cloth over the jar and let them stand three or 
four days to ferment ; then mash and press them through a 
cloth. To every gallon of juice add three pounds of brown 
sugar. Return the mixture to the jar and cover closely. Skim 
it every morning for more than a week, until it ch.'ars from the 
second fermentation. When clear, pour it carefully fro7n the 
sediment into a demijohn. Cork tightly, set in a cool place 



4:64 GRAPE WINE CATAWBA GRAPE WINE. 

When two months old it will be fit for use. — 3Irs. Gen. E. A. 
T/ee. 

[Copied from a recipe in Mrs. Lee's own handwriting.] 

Grape Wink. 
Take auy convenient quantity of perfectly lipe grapes. Mash 
them so as to break all the skins, and pvit them in a tub or 
other clean vessel, and let them remain twenty-four hours; N^ith 
a cider-press or other convenient apparatxis, express all the juice, 
and to each gallon of juice thus obtained add from two to two 
and a half pounds of wliite sugar (if the grapes are sweet, two 
pounds will be enough), put the juice and sugar in a keg or 
barrel, and cover the bung-hole with a piece of muslin, so the 
gas can escape and dust and insects cannot get in ; let it remain 
perfectly quiet until cold weather, then bung up tightly. This 
wine will need no clarifying; if allowed to rest perfectly still 
it can be drawn off perfectly ck?ar. — ]\fr. W. A. /S. 

Grape. JVine. 

Pick the grapes from the bunch, masli tliorougldy, and let 
them stand twenty-four hours. Then strain and add three 
pounds of sugar to every gallon of juice. Leave iu a cask six 
months, and then bottle, putting three raisins in each bottle. — 
Mrs. li. L. 

Grape JVine. 

Press the gra})es, and when the juice settles, add two pounds 
of white sugar to four quarts of juice. Let it stand twenty-four 
hours, drain, piit in a cask ; do not stop tightly till the fermen- 
tation is over. — Mrs. 11. A. 

Catawba Grape Wine. 

Mash ripe grapes to a pulp, and let them stand twenty-four 

hours. Then squeeze through a cloth, and add two pounds of 

sugar to each gallon of pure juice. Put in a cask, leave the 

bung out, and put coarse muslin over the hole to admit; the air. 



CATAWIJA GRAPE WINE NATIVE GRAPE WINE. 4G5 

Let it stand six weeks, or till fermentation ceases. Then close 
the month of the cask and let the wine stand several months, 
after which it may be drawn off. — ]\frs. H. D. 

Catawba Grape Wine. 
To every gallon of grape juice add one quart of cold, clear 
water, and three pounds of " A " sugar. Pour into a runlet and 
let it remain uncorked fourteen days, and then cork loosely. 
Add half a box gelatine to every ten gallons, fourteen days after 
making it. At the end of a month tighten the cork, then let it 
remain undisturbed for six months, after which it may be care- 
fully racked, bottled, and sealed. — Mrs. Dr. E. 

Fox Grape Wine. 

To every bushel of fox grapes add twenty-two quarts of water. 
Mash the fruit and let it stand twenty-four hours. Strain 
through a linen or tine sieve that will pr-event the seed from 
getting through. To every gallon of juice add two pounds of 
brown sugar. Fill the cask not quite full. Let it stand open 
fourteen days, and then close the bung. — Mrs. Gen. li. E Lee. 

[The above was copied from an autograph recipe of Mrs. 
Lee's, kindly furnished by her daughter.] 

Wild Black Grape Wine. 

Pick the grapes from the stem and cover with water. Mash 
and strain immediately. Add three pounds white sugar to one 
gallon juice. Garden grape wine is made in the same way. If 
you prefer a red wine, let the water stand on the grapes all 
night. The light wine is the best, however. 

This wine has to be kept much longer than blackberry wine 
before it is fit for use. — Mrs. M. D. 

Native Grape Wine. 
Pick all the perfect grapes from the bunches, wash them and 
[)ack them down in a wooden or stone vessel. Pour over them 



460 GOOSEBERRY WINE — CURRANT WINE. 

boiling water — about one quart to every bushel of grapes. Tie 
a cloth over them and let them stand a week or ten days. 
Then strain it and add three pounds sugar to every gallon jnice, 
mixing it well. Put in demijohns and tie a cloth over the top. 
Let it stand six months, and then cork it tightly. The wine 
will be fit for use in nine months. — Mrs. Dr. S. 

Gooseberry Wine. 
To every gallon of gooseberries add three pints of boiling 
water. Let it stand two days, tlien mash and squeeze out the 
juice, to every gallon of which add three pounds of sugar. Put 
it in a cask and draw off about the usual time of drawing oft' 
other wines.— Jfrs. E. T. H. A. 

Currant Wine. 

Put three pounds of brown sugar to every squeezed gallon of 
currants. Add a gallon of water, or two, if juice is scarce. It 
is better to put it in an old wine-cask and let it stand a year 
before you draw it oft". — Mrs. Gen. Ji. E. Lee. 

[Copied from a recipe in her own handwriting.] 

Currant Wine. 
Mash the currants well and strain through a linen towel. 
Add a gallon of water to every gallon of juice. Allow thi-ee 
pounds sugar to every gallon of the mixture. Put in a cask 
and cork loosely till fermentation is over. Bottle in Septem- 
ber.— 7Jf/-s. Br. S. 

Citrrant W^ine. 
To one gallon well picked and washed currants, add cne 
gallon water. Let it stand twenty-four hours, then strain 
through a flax linen cloth. Add to a gallou of juice and water 
three pounds brown sugar. Let it stand fourteen days in a 
clean, open cask. — Mrs. Dr. E. 



cheery wijne tomato wine. 467 

Cherry Wine. 

Measure the berries and bruise them, adding to every gallon 
one quart boiling water. Let it stand twenty-four hours, stir- 
ring occasionally. Then strain off the liquor, put in ajar, add- 
ing two pounds sugar to every gallon. Stop tightly, and let it 
stand till the next October, when it will be fit for use without 
straining or boiling. 

Strawberry Wine. 

Mash the berries and add to each gallon of fruit a half- 
gallon boiling water. Let it stand twenty-four hours, then 
strain and add three pounds brown sugar to each gallon juice. 
Lei; it stand thirty-six hours, skimming the impurities that rise 
to the top. Put in a cask, reserving some to add as it escapes 
from the cask. Fill each morning. Cork and seal tightly 
after the fermentation is over. — 3frs. E. 

Orange Wine. 
One gallon juice of sour oranges, four gallons water, twenty 
pounds sugar. Boil it and clarify with the whites of two eggs ; 
skim the liquid till the scum has disappeared. Pour into a 
vessel of suitable size, taking the precaution to first strain it 
through flannel. Add three-quarters of a bottle of raw juice 
and let it ferment. Bottle in six months. Put less sugar if 
you prefer a wine less sweet. — 3frs. JV. 

Cider Wine. 
One gallon sweet cider, three pounds sugar. Put in a cask 
and let it ferment. Keep the vessel full so that it will run 
over. Let it stand fifteen days. Put the corks in a little 
tighter every day. Let it stand three months, then bottle and 
s< al up. — J/^s. jE'. H. 

Tomato Wine. 

Pick small, ripe tomatoes off the stems, put them in a clean 
bucket or tub, mash well, and strain through a linen rag (a 
bushel will make five gallons of juice). Add fiom two and a 



468 EGGNOG APPLE TODDY. 

half to three poutds brown sugar to each gallon. Put in a cask 
and let it ferment like raspberry wine. If two gallons water 
be added to a bushel of tomatoes, the wine will be as good. — ■ 
Mi\s. A. D. 

Eggnog. 

To each egg one tablespoonful of sugar, one wine-glassful of 
milk, one wine-glassful of liquor. The sugar and yolks to be 
well beaten together, and the whites (well beaten) added by 
degrees. To twelve eggs, put eight glabsfuls of brandy and 
four of wine. Put the liquor in the yolks and sugar, stirring 
slowly all the time ; then add the whites, and lastly the milk. — 
Mrs. F. 

Eggnog. 

Three dozen eggs, three pounds of sugar, half a gallon of 
brandy, half a j)int of French brandy, half a gallon of milk. 
Beat the yolks and whites separately. Stir the sugar thor- 
oughly into the yolks, add the brandy slowly so as to cook the 
eggs, then add the milk, and lastly the whites, with grated nut- 
meg, reserving enough for top-dressing. — Mrs. P. TF! 

Eggnog. 

Take any number of eggs you wish, beat the whites and yolks 
separately and as light as ])ossible. Stir into the yolks, while 
beating, a tablespoonful of sugar to each egg. Then pour on 
the yolks and sugar a small wine-glassful of wine, flavored with 
a little vanilla, to each egg. On that pour a wine-glassfid of 
rich milk or cream to each egg. Beat the whites as if for cake, 
then beat in enough sugar to make them smooth and stiff". Stir 
this into the eggnog for twenty minutes, and grate nutmeg on 
the top. — Mrs. R. G. 

Apple Toddy. 

Half a gallon of apple brandy, half a pint of French brandy, 
half a pint of peach brandy, half a pint of Madeira wine, six 
apples, baked without peeling, one pound of sugar, with enough 



APPLE TODDY ROMAN PUNCH. 469 

hot water to dissolve it; spice, if you like. This toddy, 
bottled after straining, will keep for years, and improve with 
age.— Jfy-s. C. G. McP. 

Apple Toddy. 
One gallon of apple brandy or whiskey, one and a half gallon 
of hot water, well sweetened, one dozen large apples, wel. 
roasted, two grated nutmegs, one gill of allspice, one gill of 
cloves, a pinch of mace. Season with half a pint of good rum. 
Let it stand three or four days before using.-- (7o^. 8. 

Rum Punch. 

Make a rich, sweet lemonade, add rum and brandy to taste, 
only dashing with brandy. It must be sweet and strong. — Mrs, 
D. It. 

Regent Punch. 

One pint of strong black tea (in which put the rind of four 
lemons cut very thin). Two pounds of sugar, juice of six 
lemons, juice of six oranges, one pint of French brandy, one 
pint of rum, two quarts of champagne. Serve in a bowl, with 
plenty of ice. — Mrs. C. G. McP. 

Tea Punch. 
Three cups of strong green tea (in which put the rind of six 
lemons, pared very thin), one and one-half pound of sugar, juice 
of six lemons. Stir together a few minutes, then strain, and 
lastly add one quart of good rum. Fill the glasses with crushed 
ice when used. It will keep any length of time bottled. 
Fine for hot weather. — Mrs. A. B. 

Roman Punch. 
Grate the rind of four lemons and two oranges upon two 
pounds of sugar. Squeeze che juice of these, and let it stand 
several hours. Strain them through a sieve. Add one quart 



470 ROMAN PUNCH DEWBiCRRY CORDIAL. 

of cliainpagae and the w]iit(is of three i'ggs, beaten very light. 
Freeze, and serve in liock glasses. — 3frs. C. C. McP. 

Roman Punch. 
To make a gallon. One and a half pint of lemon juice, rinda 
of two lemons grated on sugar, one pint of rum, half a pint of 
brandy , two quarts of water, three pounds of loaf sugar. A 
pint-bottle of champagne is a great improvement. Mix all 
together, and freeze. — Mrs. S. C. C. 

Blackberry Cordial. 

Two quarts blackberry juice, one pound loaf sugar, four 
grated nutmegs, one-quarter ounce ground cloves, one-quarter 
ounce ground allspice, one-quarter ounce ground cinnamon. 
Simmer all together, for thirty minutes, in a stewpan closely 
covered, to prevent evaporation. Strain through a cloth when 
cold and add a pint of the best French brandy. Soothing and 
eflBcacious in the summer complaints of children. Dose, one 
teaspoonful poured on a little pounded ice, once or several 
times a day, as the case may require. 

Whortleberry cordial may be made by tlie same recipe. 
Good old whiskey may be used for either, in the absence of 
brandy. — Mrs. Gen. S. 

Biackherry Cordial. 
Half a bushel of berries, well u>ashed, one quarter pound of 
allspice (pulverized), two ounces cloves (pulverized). Mix and 
boil slowly till done. Then strain through homespun or flannel, 
and add one pound white sugar to each pint of juice. Boil 
again, and, when cool, add half a gallon best brandy. Good for 
diarrhoea or dysentery. Dose, one teaspoonful or more accord- 
ing to age. — Mrs.S. JB. 

Dewberry Cordial. 
To our. quait juice put one pound loaf sugar and boil these 



DEWBERRY CORDIAL CHERRY CORDIAL. 471 

together fifteen minutes. When cool, add one gill biandy, one 
tablespoonful mace, cloves, and allspice powdered. Bottle and 
cork tightly. — J/?s. A. D. 

Dewberry Cordial. 

Tnvo quarts strained juice, one pound loaf sugar, four grated 
nutmegs, one-half ounce pulverized cinnamon, one-quarter ounce 
jiulverized cloves, one-quarter ounce pulverized allspice. Simmer 
all together for thirty minutes, in a saucepan tightly covered to 
prevent evaporation. Then strain through a cloth, and, when 
cold, add one pint best French brandy. Bottle and cork tightly. 
—Mrs. D. B. 

Strawberry Cordial. 

One gallon apple brandy, four quarts strawberries. After 
standing twenty-four hours, pi-ess them througli a cotton bag, 
and add four quarts more of bei-ries. After twenty-four hours 
more, repeat this process. To every quart of the cordial add 
one pound of sugar, or sweeten it with a syi'up made as follows : 
two pounds sugar, one pint water, white of one egg whipped a 
little — all boiled together. When cold, add one pint syrup to 
one quart coi'dial. — Mrs. C. F. C. 

Cherry Cordial. 
Extract the juice from ripe Morella cherries as you would from 
berries. Strain through a cloth, sweeten to your taste, and 
wlien perfectly clear, boil it. Put a gill of brandy in each 
bottle, cork and seal tightly. Will keep all the summer in a 
cool place. Delicious with iced water. 

Cherry Cordial or Cherry Brandy. 
Take three pounds Morella cherries. Stone half and prick 
the rest. Throw into a jar, adding the kernels of half slightly 
bruised. Add one pound white sugar. Dover with brandy, and 
let it stand a month. — Mrs. E. 



472 mint cokdial strawberry vinegar. 

Mint Cordial. 

Pick the mint early in the moi-uing while the dew is on it. 
Do not bruise it. Pour some water over it, and then drain it 
off. Put two handfuls in a pitcher with a quart of French 
brandy. Cover and let it stand till next day. Take out tlie 
mint carefully, and put in as much more, which take out next 
day. Add fresh mint a third time, taking it out after twenty- 
four hours. Then add three quarts water and one pound loaf 
sugar to the brandy. Mix well, and, when clear, bottle. — Mrs. 
Br. J. 

Strawberry Acid. 

Put twelve pounds fruit in a pan. Cover it with two quarts 
water, having previously acidulatf'd the water with five ounces 
tartaric acid. Let it remain forty-eight hours. Then strain, 
taking care not to bruise the friiit. To each pint of juice add 
one pound and a half powdered sugar. Stir till dissolved, and 
leave a few days. Then bottle and coik lightly. If a slight 
fermentation takes place, leave the corks out for a few days. 
The whole process to be cold. When put away, the bottles 
must Vje kept erect. — Mrs. Col. H. 

IloYAL Strawberry Acid. 
Dissolve two ounces citric acid in one quart spring water, 
which pour over thi-ee pounds ripe sti-awberries. After stand- 
ing twenty-four hours, drain the liquor off, and pour it over 
three pounds more of strawberries. Let it stand twenty -four 
hours more, and again drain the liquor off. Add to the liquor 
its own weight of sugar. Boil three or four minutes, put in 
cool bottles, cork lightly for three days, then cork tightly and 
seal. — 3Irs. G. 

Strawberry Vinegar. 
Four pounds strawberries, three quarts vinegar. Put fresh, 
ripe berries in a jar, adding to each pound a pint and a half of 
fine, pale white-wine vinegar. Tie a thick paper over them and 



RASPliERRY VINEGAR RASPBERRY ACID. 473 

let them remain three or four days. Then drain off the vinegar, 
and ponr it over four pounds fresh fruit. After three days drain 
it again, and add it a third time to fresh fruit. After drain- 
ing the last time, add one pound refined sugar to each j)int of 
vinegar. When nearly dissolved, stir the syrup over a fire till 
it has dissolved (five minutes). Skim it, pour it in a pitcher, 
cover it till next day. Then bottle it, and cork it loosely for 
the first few days. Use a few spoonfuls to a glass of water. — 
Mrs. E. P. G. 

Raspberry Vinegar. 

Put a quart red raspberries in a bowl. Pour over them a quart 
strong apple vinegar. After standing twenty -four hours, strain 
through a bag, and add the liquid to a quart of fresh berries. 
After twenty-fo\ir hours more, strain again, and add the liquid 
to a third quart of berries. After straining the last time, 
sweeten liberally with pounded loaf sugar, refine and bottle. 
Blackberry vinegar may be made by the same recipe. — Mrs. 
C. N. 

Hasjjiberry Vinegar. 

Put two quarts ripe, fresh gathered berries in a stone or 
china vessel, and pour over them a quart of vinegar. After 
standing twenty-four hours, strain through a sieve. Pour the 
liquid over two quarts fresh berries, which strain after twenty- 
four hours. Allow one pound loaf sugar to each pint of juice. 
Break up the sugar and let it melt in the liquid. Put the whole 
in a stone jar, cover closely, and set in a kettle of boiling water, 
which must be kept boiling briskly an hour. Take oflf the scum, 
and, when cold, bottle. — Miss JV. L. 

Raspberry Acid. 

Dissolve five ounces tartaric acid in two quarts water, and 

pour it over twelve pounds berries. Let it stand twenty-four 

hours, and then strain without bruising the fruit. To each pint 

dear juice add one pound and a half dissolved sugar, and leave 

40 



i74 LEMCN VTNEGAK — CKEAM BEER. 

a few days. If a slight fermentation takes place, deky corking 
a few days. Then cork and seal. — Mrs. G. 

Lemon Vinegar. 
Fill a bottle nearly full of strong cider vinegar. Put in it 
the rind of two or three lemons, peeled very thin. In a week 
or two it will be ready for use, and will not only make a nice 
beverage (very much like lemonade), but will answer for sea- 
soning. — Mrs. M. C. C. 

Lemon or Orange Syrup. 
Put one pound and a half white sugar to each pint of juice. 
Add some peel, and boil ten minutes, then strain and cork. 
It makes a fine beverage, and is useful for flavoring pies and 
puddings. The juice of any acid fr\iit may be made into a 
Byrup by the above recijie. 

Orgeat. 
Make a syrup of one pound sugar to one pint water. Put it 
aside till cold. To five pounds sugar put one gill rose-water 
and two tablespoonfuls essence of bitter almonds. — Mrs. I. IT. 

Summer Beer. 
Twelve quarts water, one quart molasses, one quart strong 
hop-tea, one-half i)iut yeast. Mix well and allow to settle. 
Strain through a coarse cloth, and bottle. It will be good in 
twenty-four hours. — Mrs. E. W. 

Cream Beer. 
Two ounces tartaric acid, two pounds white sugar, three pints 
water, juice of one lemon. Boil all together. When nearly 
cold, add whites of three eggs, well beaten, with one-half cupful 
flour, and one-half ounce essence wintergreen. Bottle and keep 
in a cool place. Take two tablespoonfuls of this mixture for a 
tumbler of water, in which put one-quarter teaspoonful soda. 
— Mrs. E. 



lemon beer — ckab cider. 4'i6 

Lemon Beer. 
Cut two large lemons in slices and put tliera in ajar. Add 
one pound white sugar and one gallon boiling water. Let it 
stand till cool ; then add one-quarter cupful yeast Let it 
stand till it ferments. Bottle in the evening in stone jugs and 
cork tightly.— J/7S. G. W. P. 

Ginger Beer. 

One and a half ounce best ground Jamaica ginger, one and a 
half ounce cream of tartar, one pound brown sugar, two sliced 
lemons, four quarts boiling water, one-half pint yeast. Let it fer- 
ment twenty-four hours. In two weeks it will be ready for 
use.— J/rs. G.W. P. 

Small Beer. 

Fifteen gallons water, one gallon bran, one and a half gallon 
molasges, ore quart corn or oats, one-quarter pound hops. Let 
it boil up once ; take it off and sweeten with the aforementioned 
molasses. Put it in a tub to cool. When a little more than 
milk warm, add one and a half pint j'east. Cover it with a 
blanket till next morning, and then bottle. — Mrs. M. P. 

Mulled Cider. 

To one quart cider take three eggs. Beat them light and 

add sugar according to the acidity of the cider. When light, 

pour the boiling cider on, stirring briskly. Put back on the 

fire and stir till it fairly boils. Then pour off.— J/r. R. H. M. 

Crab Cider. 
To a thirty-gallon cask put one bushel clean picked grapes. 
Fill up with sweet eider, just from the press — crab preferred. 
Draw off in March, and it is fit for use. Add brandy, as much 
as you think best. — Mrs. A. J). 



476 THE SICK-EOOM DIET AND REMEDIES FOR THE SICK. 



THE STCK-ROOM— DIET AND REMEDIES FOR 
THE SICK. 

Fifst of all, let me say that after arelia'jle physician lias been 
called in, his directions should be strictly followed, and his in- 
structions should be the law in the sick-room. Have every- 
thing in readiness for his admission immediately after his arrival, 
as his time is valuaV)le and it occasions him both annoyance and 
loss of time to be kept waiting outside of the sick-room, after 
reaching the house of the patient. 

Pure air is of vital importance in the sick-room. Many 
persons exclude fiesh air for fear of dampness, but even damp 
air is better than impure. Even in cold weather, there should 
be a free circulation of air. If there are no ventilators, let the 
air circulate from the tops of the windows, rather than admit 
it by opening the door, which is apt to produce a draft. Mean- 
time keep up a good fire ; if practicable, let it be a wood fire, 
bnt if this be not attainable, have an open grate, with a coal 
tire. The sight of a bri<irht blaze is calculated to cheer the 
2)atient, while the sight of a dark, close stove is depressing. By 
no means allow a sick person to be in a room warmed by a flue 
or register. 

The old idea of darkening the sick-room is exploded. It 
should be darkened only when the patient wishes to sleep. If 
the eyes ai'e weak, admit the sunshine from a quarter where it 
will not fall xipon them. The modern science of physics has 
come to I'ecognize sunshine as one of the most powerful of 
remedial agencies, and cases are not rare in which invalids have 
been restored to health by using sun-baths, and other^vise freely 
enjoying the sunshine. 

It is best to have no odors in the sick-room unless ib be bay 
rum, German cologne, or something else especially fancied by 
the sick person. Where there is any unpleasant exhalation, 
it is far better to let it escape by properly ventilating the room, 



THE SICK-ROOM DIET AND REMEDIES FOR THE SICK. 477 

than to try to overcome it by the aid of perfumery. In fevers, 
where there are offensive exhalations from the body, sponging 
with tepid water will help to remove the odor, and will also 
prove soothing to the patient. In winter, expose but a small 
portion of the body at a time, in sponging. Then rub gently 
with the hand or a coarse towel, and there will be no danger of 
the patient's taking cold, even in winter. 

Be careful to keep warm, soft flannels on the sick person in 
winter. In summer, do not keep a pile of bedclothes on the 
patient, even though chiil3\ It is better to keep up the circu- 
lation by other means, such as rubbing or stimulants. Sctupu- 
lous neatness sliould be observed about the bed-linen (as well 
as the other appointments of the sick-room). Never vae bed- 
quilts or comforts ; they are not only heavy, but retain the 
exhalations from the body. Use soft, fleecy blankets instead. 

The nurse should watch her opportunity of having the bed- 
clothes taken into the fresh air and shaken, and the bed made 
up, when the patient has been lifted up and set in an easy-chair 
near the fire. The arrangements about the bed should be 
quickly made, so that the patient may be able to lie down 
again as soon as fatigued. Let such sweeping and dusting as 
are necessary be also done with dispatch, using a dust-pan to 
receive the dust from the carpet. Avoid clouds of dust from 
the carpet, and of aslies from the fireplace. 

The nurse has a very important part to play, as physicians 
say that nursing is of equal importance as medical attendance. 
The nurse should be careful not to wear a dress that rustles, 
nor shoes that creak, and if the patient has any fancy, or any 
aversion connected with colors, she should regard it in hei 
dress. Indeed, the patient should be indulged in every fancy 
that is not hurtful. 

The nurse should be prompt in every arrangement. Where 
blisters or poultices are to be used, she should not wait till the 
lafjt moment to prepare them, but should do so before uncover- 
ing the patient to apply them, or even broaching the subjecti 



478 THE SICK-ROOM DIET AND REMEDIES FOR TFIE SICi:. 

If anything painful or distasteful has to be undergone by the 
patient, it should not be discussed befoi-ehand with or l)efore 
the patient ; but when all is in readiness, witli cheerful and 
soothing words, let it be done. 

The patient should never be kept waiting for food, niedicii\c, 
bath, or any other requisite. Every arrangement should be 
made beforehand to supply his or her needs in good time. 
Crushed ice and other needful things should be kept always at 
hand, so the patient may have them at any moment without 
delay. Especially on the approach of night, try to provide 
everything needed during the night, such as ice, mustard, hot 
water, kindling wood, a large piece of soapstone for the feet, 
as this is more cleanly and retains heat better than other 
things used for the purpose. Other things, such as the nature 
of the sickness may call for, should be thought of aud pro- 
vided before nightfall. 

As the sick are very fastidious, all food for them must be 
prepared in the most delicate manner. Do not bring the 
same article of food several times consecutively, but vary it 
from time to time. Do not let a sick person have any article 
of food forbidden by a physician, as there are many reasons 
known to them only, why dishes fancied by the sick should be 
injurious. 

Avoid whispering, as this excites nervousness and appre- 
hension on the part of the sick. Do not ask in a mournful tone 
of voice how the patient is. Indeed, it is best to ask tlie sick as 
few questions as possible. It is far better to watcli their symp- 
toms for yourself than to question them. Examine for youi'self if 
their feet are warm, and endeavor to discover their condition 
aud their wants, as far as possible, without questions. 

In a case of illness, many well-meaning persons crowd to see 
the patient ; do not admit them into the sick-room, as it is ooth 
exciting and fatiguing to au ill person to see com{)any, and, 
when in a critical condition, the balance might be disastrously 
turned by the injudicious admission of visitors. Both miud 



AKROWKOOT. 479 

aud body must be kept quiet to give the patient a chance for 
recovery. When well enough to listen to conversation, the 
patient sliould liear none but what is cheerful and entertain- 
ing, never any of an argumentative or otherwise unpleasant 
natu re. 

Do not allow the patient to read, as it is too great a taii on 
the sight and brain before convalescence. Suitable books, in 
large print, are a great resource to the patient when arrived at 
tliis stage, but should be read only in moderation. 

Driving out is a delightful recreation for convalescents, and 
they should be indulged in it as soon as the physician pronoun- 
ces it safe. In winter, thoy should be carried driving about 
noon, so as to enjoy the sunshine at its warmest. In summer, 
the cool of the morning or evening is the best time to diive them 
out ; but if the latter time be chosen, be careful to return imme- 
diately ax'ter sundown. Make arrangements for the patient 
on returning to find the room thoroughly cleaned, aired, and 
adorned with fresh flowers (always so cheering in a sick-room), 
and let the bed be nicely made nj) antl turned down. It is well 
to have sojne little refreshment awaiting after the drive — a little 
cream or nulk toddy, a cup of tea or coifee, or, if the weather be 
hot, some cooling draught perhaps would be mo)"e acceptable. 
It is well to keep the convalescent cheered, by projecting each 
day some new and pleasant little jjlan for the morrow. 

Arrowroot. 
Break an egg. Separate the yolk and white. Whip each to 
a stift' froth. Add a tablespoonful of arrowroot and a little 
water to the yolk. Rub till smooth and free from lumps. Pour 
slowly into half a pint of boiling water, stirring all the time. 
Let it simmer till jelly-hke. Sweeten to the taste and add 
a tablespoonful of French brandy. Stir in the frothed white 
and take hot in wint/^r. In summer, set first on ice, then stir 
iu the beaten white. Milk may be used instead of water. — 
Mrs. S. T. 



4:80 AKROWROOT WINE WHEY. 

Arrowroot. 

Mix one tablespoonful anovvroot with enough cold Mater to 
make a ])a.ste, free from lumps. Pour this slowly into half a 
pint boiling milk and let it simmer till it becomes thick and 
jelly-like. Sweeten to the taste and add a little nutmeg or 
cinnamon. — Mrs. H. G. M. W. 

Skamoss Farina. 
One tablespoonful in one quart hot water makes jelly ; one 
tablespoonful in one quart milk makes blanc-mange. Stir 
fifteen minutes, and, while simmering, flavor with vanilla or 
lemon. Suitable for sick persons. — 31. L. G. 

Racahaut. 
One pound rice flour, one pound chocolate, grated fine, two 
tablespoonfuls arrowroot. From a half-pound to a pound of 
sugar. Mix well together and put in a close jar. To one 
quai't milk, rub in four dessert.s]>oonfuls of the above mixture. 
Give it a boil up and season with vanilla. — Mrs. tT. H. T. 

Cracked Wheat. 
Soak the wheat in cold water all night. Pour oflfthis water 
in the morning. Pour boiling water then over the wheat and 
boil it about half an hour, adding salt and butter. Eat with 
cream. — Mrs. A. M. 

Breakfast for an Invalid. 
Bread twelve hours old, an egg and black tea. — Mrs. A. 

Food for a Sick Infant. 
Gelatine two inches square, niilk half a pint, water half a 
pint, cream one-half to one gill, arrowroot a teaspoonful. Sweet- 
en to the taste. — Mrs. J'. D. 

Wink Whey. 
Put half pint milk over the fire, and, as soon as it begins to 



MILK PUNCH ESSENOK OF CHICKKN. 481 

boil, pour slowly into it a wine-glass of sherry wine, mixed with 
a teaspoonful white sugar. Grate into it a little nutmeg, and 
as soon as it comes to a boil again, take it off the fii'e. When 
cool, strain for use. — Mrs. R. C. M. TFl 

Milk Punch. 

Pour two tablespoonfuls good brandy into six tablespoonfuls 

milk. Add two teaspoonfuls ground loaf sugar and a little 

grated nutmeg. An ad\ilt may take a tablespoonful of this 

every two or three hours, but children must take less. — Mrs. R. 

C. M. W. 

Beef Essence. 

Cut one pound beef in small bits, sprinkle with a very little 
salt, tie up in a close stone jar, and set in boiling water. Boil 
it hard an hour or more, then strain it. Chicken may be pre- 
pared the same way. Nice for the sick. — 3Irs. Col. W. 

Beef-Tea. 
Take half a pound fresh beef for every pint of beef-tea 
requii-ed. Carefully remove all fat, sinew, veins, and bone from 
the beef. Cut it in pieces under an inch square and let it soak 
twelve hours in one-third of the water required to be made into 
tea. Then take it out and let it simmer three hours in the re- 
maining two- thirds of the water, the quantity lost by evapora- 
tion being replaced from time to time. The boiling liquor is 
then to be poured on the cold liquor in which the meat was 
soaked. The solid meat is to be diied, pounded in a mortar, 
and minced so as to cut up all strings in it, and mixed with the 
liquid. When the beef-tea is made daily, it is convenient to 
use one day's boiled meat for the next day's tea, as thus it has 
time to dry and is more easily pounded. Avoid having it 
sticky and too much jellied, when cold. 

Essence of Chicken. 
In a case of extreme sickness, when it is important that what 
little nourishment the i>atient can take should be highly coa- 

41 



482 CHICKEN JELLY — DRY TOAST. 

densed, the following is an excellent mode for concentrating, in 
a small compass, all the nutritive properties of a chicken. 

After picking the chicken, sprinkle a little salt over it and 
cut it in pieces, as if for frying. Put the pieces in a small 
glass jar (or wide-mouthed bottle), stop it tightly, and put it in 
a pot of cold water, gradually heating the latter till it boils. 
Let the jar of chicken remain in the water till the jnices are 
well extracted, then pour them off for the patient. — Mrs. M. 

a c. 

Chicken Jelly. 
Take a large chicken, cut the flesh from its bones, break the 
bones, soak an hour in weak salt and water to extract the blood. 
Put on in a stevvpan witli thi^ee pints of cold water. Simmer 
till i-educed to less than half its original quantity. Sprinkle 
a little salt on it, and strain in a bowl. Keep on ice. — Mrs. 
S. T. 

A Nourishing Way to Prepare Chicken, Squirrel, or 
Beef for the Sick. 
Put in a clean, glazr.d jar or inner saucepan. Set this in 
another vessel of boiling water. Cover closely, and keep boil- 
inf^ for hours. Season the juice tlius extracted with a little 
salt, stir in a teaspoonful of fresh milk, and give to the patient. 

—Mrs. T. 

Panada. 

Lay six nice crackers in a bowl. Sprinkle over them pow- 
dered sugar and a jjinch of salt, adding a very small jjiece of fresh 
butter. Pour boiling water over the crackers, and let them 
remain near the fire half an hour. Then add a teaspoonful of 
good French brandy, or a tablespoonful of Madeira wine, and a 
little giated nvitmeg. — Mrs. T. 

Dry Toast. 
Slice thin, some nice, white bread, perfectly sweet. Toast a 
lidit brown, and butter with fresi) butter. — Mrs. S. T. 



scalded toast — aromatic vinegar. 48<s 

Scalded Toast. 

Prepare and toast the bread as above directed. Then lay in 
a covered dish and pour boiling water over it. Turn to one 
side, and drain out the water. Then put fresh butter on each 
slice, with a small pinch of salt. Serve in a covered dish. — 
31rs. S. T. 

Milk Toast. 

Slice the bread thin, toast a light brown, butter each side, 
and sprinkle with a little salt. Put in a covered dish, and 
pour over it boiling milk. — 3frs. S. T. 

Carolina Small Hominy. 

Wash and pick. Drain, and soak an hour in cold water. 

Drain again, and put in a saucepan, with one pint boiling water 

to one j)int hominy. Boil till dry like rice. Eat with cream, 

butter and salt, or with sugar, butter and nutmeg. — Mrs. S. T. 

Dishes Suitable for the Sick 
May be found in various parts of this work, such as rice pud- 
ding, baked custard, and various i)reparations of tapioca, sago, 
and arrowroot. Grapes are valuable in fever, and also good for 
chronic sore-throat. — Mrs. /S. T. 

Thieves' Vinegar. 
A handful of sage and the same of mint, tansy, rue, rose- 
mary, lavendei', and thyme ; one ounce of camphor. Put in a 
gallon demijolin, and till with good vinegar. Set in the sun 
two weeks with a piece of leather over the mouth, then stop 
tightly. —Mrs, D. R. 

Ajiomatic Vinegar. 

Acetic acid (concentrated), eight ounces ; oil of lavender 

(Eng.), two drachms ; oil of rosemary, one drachm ; oil of cloves, 

one drachm ; gum camphor, one ounce. Dissolve the camphor 

(bruised) in the acid, then add perfumes. A.fter standing ? 



484 SODA MINT MUSTARD. 

few days, with occasional shaking, sti-ain, and it is rpady foi 
use.— i>r. E. A. C. 

Soda IMixt. 
Bicarb, soda (Eng.), one drachm ; pure water, three ounces • 
spearmint water, four ounces; glycerine, one ounce; ar. spts. 
ammonia, thirty-two drops. Mix and filter. Dose, from twenty 
drops to a tablespoouful, according to age. — Dr. E. A. (J. 

Lime- Water. 
This is easily prepared, and a bottle should always be kept 
ready for iise. It is an antidote to many poisons and a valua- 
ble remedy in a sick-room. Put some pieces of unslacked lime 
in a bottle, fill up with cold water, keep it corked and in a cool, 
dark place. It does not matter about the quantity of lime, as 
the water will not dissolve more than a certain quantity. It is 
ready for use in a few minutes, and the clear lime-water can be 
poured off as needed. When all the water is used, fill up again, 
which may be done several times before it is necessary to use 
fresh lime. — Mrs. T. 

Tarrant's Effervescent Seltzer Aperient 
Is an invaluable x-emedy for sick headache, nausea, constipation, 
and many of the attendant evils of dyspepsia. Directions 
accompany each bottle. Colic and other violent pains of the 
stomach are sometimes instantly relieved by adding to the dose 
of Seltzer Aperient a teaspoonful of Brown's Jamaica Ginger. 

Brown's Jamaica Ginger 
AS not only an invaluable remedy, but a refreshing and delight- 
ful drink may be made from it in summer, when iced lemonade 
would be unsafe and iced juleps, etc., would be too heating for 
one suffering from over-fatigue. Fill a goblet with crushed ice, 
add two tea-poonfuls of powdered sugar and one of Jamaica gin- 
ger. Fill up with water, stir and drink. — Mrs. S. T. 

Mustard. 
It is not safe to pass a day without mustard in the house, so 



MTJSTARL LEAVES OR PLASTERS — FOR SOKE-THROAT. 485 

valuable ar(; its medicinal properties. When, a large plaster is 
wanted, put into a plate or bowl two tablespoonfuls gi-onnd 
mustard. Wet it with cold water and stir with a spoon or knife 
till a sniootli paste. Lay on an inverted tea-board a jDiece ot' 
newspaper twice the .size of the plaster wanted. On one-half 
spread evenly and thinly the mustard. Fold over the other half 
and fold over the edges as if to hem a piece of cloth, to prevent 
the mustard fi'oni getting on the skin or clothing. In winter, 
wai-m slightly before applying. Keep it on an adult fifteen 
minutes; on a child, half that time. In this way, painful blis- 
ters will always be avoided. If the pain is in the chest or stom- 
ach, place tlie same plaster on the back just opposite, and let 
it remain on twenty minutes the second time. Colman's mus- 
tard is considered the best by many persons. 

Mustard Leaves or Plasters. 
It is well in travelling to carry a package of these plasters, in 
case of sudden sickness. It is important also to keep them at 
home, as sometimes they are needed suddenly in the niglit, and 
even one moment gained is important in great emergencies. 
Those man\ifactured by Seabury & Johnson, N. Y., are con- 
sidered excellent and superior to the foreign article. 

Compound Syrup of Horehound and tar 
Is excellent for coughs, colds, bronchitis, and diseases of the 
chest. Manufactured by Faulkner & Craighill, Lynchburg, Va. 

For Sore-Throat. 
Carbolic acid cr^ stals, pure, half a drachm ; tincture kino^ one 
drachm ; chlorate potash, two drachms ; simple syrup, half an 
ounce. Water sufficient to make an eight-ounce mixture. Gar- 
gle the throat every few hours. — Dr. T. L. TF! 

For Sore- Throat. 
Rub the throat well with camphorated oil, and gargle fre- 
quently with a strong solution chlorate of potash. — Mrs. S. T 



486 FOR SOKE-THROAT — THE OCEAN SALT. 

For Sore- Throat. 
Carbolic acid, fifteen grains ; chlorate potash, thirty grains ; 
rose-water, one and a half ounces ; glycerine, one-half ounce. 
Use as a gargle, thret^ or four times daily. — Mr. E. C 

A Cure for Epilepsy {one I have known to succeed in rtiant/ 

cases). 
Procure the fresh root of a wliite peony. Scrape and cut in 
pieces an inch square. Eat one three times a day, never taking 
any food after four P.M. Use a month, stop two weeks and 
begin again. The best way to keep the root is to string it on a 
cord. The red peony will do, if you cannot get the white. 
Mrs. E. C. 

Cure for Cramp. 

Wet a cloth in spirits turpentine and lay it over the place 
where the pain is felt. If the pain moves, move the cioth. 
Take five dro})S spirits turpentine at a time on white sugar till 
relieved. — 3Irs. li. 

For Cramp-Colic, or Pain Resulting from Disordered 
Bowels. 

One teaspoouful paregoric, one teaspoonful Jamaica ginger, 
one teaspoonful spirits camphor, one-half teaspoonful carbonate 
soda, two tablespoonfuls water, two tablespoonfuls whiskej. 
This is for one dose. If it does not relieve in an hour, repeat. 

—Dr. J. T. W. 

For Chilblains. 

Take common furniture glue from the pot, spread it on 
a linen rag or piece of brown paper, and apply hot to the chil- 
blain, letting it remain till the glue wears off. 

For Fresh Cuts. 
Varnish them with common furniture varnish. This remedy 
has been known to prove very efficacious. — Mr. JV. 

The Ocean Salt 
Is now much used by those who cannot go to the seaside 



BREAST SALVE PREVENTIV^E OF SCARLEl' FEVER. 487 

Seventy-five cents fur half a bushel. Dissolve a large handfal 
in a pitcher of water. Use a sponge to rub the flesh. — Mrs. A. 

Breast Salve. 

Linseed oil (raw), four ounces ; mutton tallow, four ounces ; 
yellow wax, two ounces; Burgundy pitch, one ounce; Venice 
turpentine, one ounce ; oil lavender, one-half ounce ; rosin, one- 
half ounce. 

Melt together and strain through flannel. Spread lightly on 
a soft linen rag, apply to the breast, and the relief is almost in- 
stantaneous. — Dr. E. A. C. 

An Excellent Wash for Inflamed Eyes. 
Sulph. zinc, two grains 5 wine of opium, ten drops ; distilled 
water, one ounce. Mix. Drop two or three drops in the outer 
corner of the eye several times a day. — Dr. E. A. C. 

Eye-Water for Weak Eyes. 
One teaspoonful laudanum, two teaspoonfuls Madeira wine, 
twelve teaspoonfuls rose-water. — Mrs. E. I. 

For Earache. 

Equal parts of laudanum and tincture of arnica. Mix, satur- 
ate a piec<^ of wool in the mixture, and insert in the ear, — Dr. 
E. A. C. 

Toothache Drops. {Sure cure.) 

Morphia, six grains ; half on ounce each of tincture aconite 
root, chloroform, laudanum, creosote, oil cloves, cajuput. Add 
as much gum camphor as the chloroform will dissolve. Satu- 
i-ate with the above mixture a piece of wool and p\it it in the 
hollow tooth, being certain that the cavity is cleaned out. — Dr. 
E. A. C. 

Preventive of Scarlet Fever. 

Extract belladonna (pure), three grains ; cinnamon- water, one 
drachm ; distilled water, seven drachms. Mix, label poison, and 
give the child for a dose as many drops as the years of his age. 
-Dr.E.A. a 



4:88 fob preventing scarlet fever burns and scalds. 

For Preventing Scarlet Fever. 
Extract belladonna, six grains ; cinnamon- water, one dracluu ; 
white sugar, two drachms ; alcohol, two drachms ; pun) water, 
thirteen drachms. Mix thoroughly au;l label belladonna, /joisow. 
Dose, one drop for each year of the child's age, repeated twice 
aday.— 2>r. E. A. C. 

To Kelieve " Prickly Heat." 
Sulphate of copper, grains ten ; pure water, f. 3 i. Mix sol. 
Apply with camel-hair brush daily or oftener. — Dr. E. A. G. 

For Snake Bites. 
Apply ammonia or hartshorn immediately to the bite, and 
swallow ten drops, dissolved in a wine-glass of water. Said to 
be a certain remedy. — 3Irs. T. 

Remedy for Chicken Cholera. 
.Dip a small feather or brush into tincture of iodine, hold the 
chicken's mouth open, and mop the inside of the throat 
thoroughly with the iodine. This treatment has proved suc- 
cessful whenever tried. — Mrs. N. G. 

Mashed Finger. 
Bind up with old linen and keep constantly wet with cold 
water. If there is much pain, add laudanum or tincture of 
arnica. If discoloration and swelling remain, after the pain 
subsides, use stimulating liniment to encourage a flow of pure 
blood and the washing away of the injured blood. 

Burns and Scalds. 
If the burn or scald is serious, send immediately for a physi- 
cian. In the meantime, cover with wet linen cloths, pouring on 
more water without removing them, till the pain is alleviated, 
when pure hog's lard may be applied, which is one of the best 
and most easUy procured dressings. If the scald or burn is 
trifling, this is all that is needed. Lather of soap from the shav- 



LINIMENT FOR RECENT BURNS CHILL PILIS. 4S0 

ing-ciip applied by the brush often produces relief. White of egg 
applied iu the same way is a simple and useful dressing. Never 
tamper with a bad burn. This requires the skilful treatment of 
a physician. If the shock is gi'eat, and there is no reaction, ad- 
minister frequently aromatic spirits of ammonia or a little 
brandy and water till the patient rallies. 

Liniment for Recent Burns and Scalds. 
Take equal parts of lime-water, linseed oil, and laudanum. 
Mix and apply on a soft linen rag. Some add about one-quarter 
quantity commercial sol. carbolic acid. — Dr. E. A. C. 

Compound Chalk Mixture for Infants and Young 

Children. 

Prepared chalk, powdered white sugar, gum arabic, two 

drachms each. Tincture kino, paregoric, each six drachms. 

Lime-water, one ounce; peppermint water, sufficient for four 

ounces. 

Mix thoroughly and shake well before administering. Dose, 
from half to a teaspoonful, according to age and urgency of the 
case. — Br, E. A. (1. 

A Simple Remedy for Dysentery. 
Black or green tea steeped in boiling water and sweetened 
with loaf sugar.— JIfrs. H. C. 31. W. 

For Diarrhcea. 
Take equal parts of laudanum, tincture capsicum, tincture 
camphor, and aromatic syrup rhubarb. Mix. Dose, from half 
to a teaspoonful, in water, when needed. — Dr. E. A. C. 

Chill Pills. 
Sulph. quinine, two drachms; arsenious acid, one grain; 
strychnia, one grain ; Prussian blue, twenty grains ; powdcrtcl 
capsicum, one drachm. Mix, and make sixty pills. Take oua 
pill three times a day. — Dr. E. A. C 
21* 



4-90 cure for cold in the head cough ricmedies. 

Cure for Cold in the Head. 

Muriate of morphia, two grains ; powdered gum arabic, two 
drachms; sub. nit. bismuth, six drachms. 
Mix and snufF frequently. — Dr. E. A. C. 

Prompt Remedy for Cold in the Head. 
Sulph. quinine, twenty-four grains ; cayenne pepi)er, five 
grains. Make twelve pills, and take one every three hours. — 

Mr. E. C. 

Cure for Dyspepsia. 

Best Turkish rhubarb, one ounce ; gentian root, bruised, one- 
half ounce ; columbo, one-half ounce ; orange peel, one-half 
ounce ; feimel seed, one-half ounce ; best French brandy, one 
quart. This will bear filling up several times. 

For Whooping-Cough. 
Drop a fresh, unbroken egg in lemon juice. When dissolved, 
sweeten and give a spoonful occasionally when the cough come3 
on. — Mrs. E. I. 

An Excellent Remedy for Coughs. 

Boil three fresh lemons till quite soft. Then slice them on 
a pound of brown sugar. Stew tliem together fifr.een or twenty 
minutes, or till they form a ricli syru{). When cool, add one 
tablespoonful oil of sweet almonds. 

Take one spoonful or more when the cough is troublesome. — 
ISf. A. L. 

Remedy for Coughs. 

Boil one ounce licorice root in one-half pint of water, till it 
is reduced one-half. Then add one ounce gum arabic and one 
ounce loaf sugar. Take a teaspoouful every few hours. — iV^. 

A.L. 

Remedy for Cou(/hs. 

Boil three lemons for fifteen minutes. Slice them thin while 
Lot over one pound of U)af sugar. Put on the fire in a porce- 



REMEDY FOE ASTHMA, SORE-T'HROAT, OR A COUGH. 



401 



Iain-lined saucepan and stew till the syrup is quite thick. 
After taking it from the fire, add one tablespoonful of oil of 
sweet almonds. Stir till thoroughly mixed and cool. If more 
than a small quantity is desired, double the above proportions, 
—Mrs. J. D. L. 

Remedy for Asthma, Sore-Throat, or a Cough. 
Out up two or three bulbs of Indian turnip, put the pieces in 
a quart bottle, which fill up with good whiskey. Dose, a table- 
spoonful, three or four times a day. It is especially desirable 
to take it just after rising and just before going to bed. Won- 
derful ciires of asthma have been effected by this remedy, and 
many persons living near the writer have tested its efficacy. 
The bottle will bear refilling with whiskey several times. 
Great care must be taken in procuring the genuine Indian tur- 
nip for this preparation, as there is a poisonous plant much 
resembling it. — Mrs. M. L. 

Remedy for Poison Oak. 
Make a strong decoction of the leaves or bark of the common 
willow. Bathe the parts afiected frequently with this decoc- 
tion, and it will be found a very efficacious remedy. — Gen. M. 

Remedy for Poison Oak. 
Forty grains uaiistic potash to five ounces of water. Apply 
to the eruption with a small mop, made by tying a soft linen 
rag to a stick. Often a speedy cure. — Mrs. S. T. 

Cure for Jaundice. 
Fill a quart bottle a third full of chipped inner cherrj bark. 
Add a large teaspoonful soda, and fill the bottle with whiskey 
or brandy. Take as large a dose three times a day as the system 
will tolerate. If it affects the head unpleasantly, lessen the 
quantity of bark. It will be fit for use in a few hours. — Dr. B. 



492 cuke for bone felon — good treatment for croup. 

Cure for Bone Felon. 
One ounce assafcetida in one pint vinegar, as hot as the hand 
can bear. Keep it hot by placing the vessel ovei- the top of a 
teakettle. Use it frequently through the day, an hour at a 
time. A painful but effective remedy, — 3frs. tT. D. P. 

For Treating Corns. 
Apply night and morning with a biush one or two drops of 
protoxide of iron for two weeks. — 3frs. W. 

Cure foe Corns between the Toes. 
Wet them several times a day with hartshorn, and in a short 
time they will disappear. — 3frs. W. B. 

Carrot Salve for Bllsters. 
Scrape two carrots and stew in two tablespoonfuls hog's lard. 
Add two plantain leaves. When the carrots are well done, 
strain. — Mrs. E. I. 

Linlment for Rheumatism. 
Half an ounce gxim camphor, half an ounce saltpetre, half an 
ounce spirits ammonia, half a pint alcohol. Old-fashioned lini- 
ment, good for man or beast. — 3Irs. T. 

A Good Liniment. 
One egg beaten light, half a pint spirits turpentine, half a 
pint good apple vinegar. Shake well before using. Good for 
sprains, cuts, or bruises. — Mrs. H. 

A Good Treatment for Croup. 
When the child is taken with a hoarse, tight cough, give it 
immediately from ten drops to half a teaspoon of hive or croup 
syrup, or if you have not these, use ipecac syrup, though this 
is less rapid in its effects. Put a mustard plaster on the wind- 
pipe, and let ii. redden the skin, but not blister. Put the feet in 
mustard-water as hot as they can bear it. Then wipe them dry 



TO TAKE QUININE WITHOUT TASTING IT. 493 

and keep them covered warm. A child from three to six years 
old will require from ten drops to half a teaspoon of the syrup 
every half-hour till relieved. From six to twelve, give from a 
half teaspoon to a full teaspoon, according to the age of the 
patient. Croup requires very prompt treatment. If home 
treatment does not relieve, send immediately for a physician. — 
Mrs. P. W. 

To Take Quinine without Tasting it. 
Put a little of the mucilage from slij^pery elm in a teaspoon. 
Drop the quinine on it, and put some mucilage on top. This 
will make the quinine slip down the throat without leaving 
any taste. — Mrs. J. A. S. 

Dressing for Blisters. 
The first dressing should be of collard leaves, prepared thus . 
With a sharp knife carefully pare smooth all the stalk and vein- 
ing. Then scald and squeeze each one to a pleasant moisture, 
keeping them blood-warm until applied. Second dressing — 
pure lard or mutton suet spread evenly and thinly on a soft 
linen rag. — 3frs. S. T. 

An Excellent and Simple Salve for Boils. 
Melt together, in eqiial parts, the white rosin that exudes from 
the common pine tree and mutton suet. This makes a good 
plaster for the boil, both before and after it breaks. — Mrs. S. T. 

For Boils. 
Slippery elm flour wet with cold water, and put in a soft 
muslin bag, and applied to the boil till the inflammation sub- 
sides, is an admirable remedy. Then apply carbolic salve spi-ead 
on a linen rag, which is a good dressing for the boil, both before 
and after it breaks. — Mrs. S. T. 

To Extinguish the Flames when the Clothing has taken 

Fire. 
First, throw the person on the g>-ound to prevent the upward 



494: POR WEAK BACK POISONS AND ANTIDO'l'EB. 

flames from being inhaled. Then quickly roll the person in a 
carpet hearth-rug or blanket ; if neither is at hand, use any 
"woollen garment, such as a coat, overcoat, or cloak. Keep the 
blaze as much as possible from the face, wrapping the woollen 
garment first around the neck and shoulders. Jumping into 
bed and covering up with the bedclotlies is also a good plan. 

For Weak Back. 
Two tablespoonfuls finely powdered rosin, four tablespoonfuls 
white sugar, whites of two eggs, one quart best whiskey. Dose, 
a tablespoonful three times a day, either before or after 
meals. Excellent also for colds or weak lungs ; will stoji an ir- 
ritating cough. Taken lialf a teaspoonful at a time. — Mrs. G. 

Poisons and Antidotes. 

Acids — Sulphuric, Nitric, Muriatic, JPhos2ylioric, Oxalic, 
Citric, Tartaric, Acetic. — Give freely of magnesia or soap- 
water (half an ounce white soap to two quarts tepid water). 
Also very weak solutions of carbonate of soda or potassa may 
be used. Give demulcent drinks and milk-baths, cataplasms, 
antiphlogistics. Avoid lime-water. 

Alkalies — Caustic, Potassa, Soda, TAme, Strontia, Haryta, 
and their Carbonates. — Give diluted vinegar in abundance, four 
ounces vinegar to one (juart water. Citric or tartaric lemon- 
ade, whites of eggs witli tepid water, milk, sweet-oil. Baths, 
lotions, fomentations. 

Arsenic. — Prompt emetic. Give freely of hydrated peroxide 
of iron ; dose, half an ounce, frequently repeated. If this is 
not at hand, give magnesia in large quantities of tepid water. 
Demulcent drinks, baths, and counter-irritants over the stomach 
to relieve sjjasms. 

Carbolic Acid. — Saccharated lime in water; also demulcent 
drinks. 

Chloral. — Keep the patient warm in bed, with hot blankets 
and hot water bottles, the bottles also to be applied over the 



POISONS AND ANTIDOTES. 49fe 

heart. A warm bath may be of advantage. If respiration 
threatens to fail, maintain it artificially, and apply galvanic 
b» btery (induced current), one pole over pit of stomach and the 
other over lower cervical vertebra-. 

Chloroform. — Draw out the tongue, if retracted. Give jjlenty 
of air. Raise the body and lower the head, till the body is 
almost inverted. Maintain artificial respiration. Use the gal- 
vanic battery as above directed. 

Copper, Salts of. — Cause vomiting, and then give freely of 
whites of eggs and water, demulcent drinks, soothing clysters, 
lotions, fomentations. Avoid vinegar. 

Corrosive /Sublimate. — First, cause vomiting, then give 
whites of eggs in water, four whites to one quart water. JNJilk, 
demulcent drinks, and gargles. 

Gases. — The antidote for chlorine is to inhale ammonia. 
Asphyxia by other gases, treated by cold applications to the 
head, plenty of air, artificial respiration. 

Glass, in powder. — Farina or light food in abundance. Then 
an emetic, then milk and demulcent drinks. 

Iodine. — Starch-water containing albumen in large quantities, 
or starch-water alone. 

Lead, Salts of. — White of eggs, epsom salts, or sulphuric 
acid lemonade. (One drachm tliluted acid to a quart sweetened 
water. ) 

Nitrate of Silver (lunar caustic). — Give salt water freely. 

Ojyium and Salts of Morphine. — Cause free vomiting by 
sulphate of zinc, sulphate of co})per, and tartar emetic, and use 
the stomach-pump. Then administer one-sixteenth grain atro- 
pine, hypodermically, and repeat with caution till the pupils 
dilate. Also give strong coffee or tea. Keep the patient 
awake. If depression and drowsiness are extreme, bleeding 
may do the patient good. 

Phosphorus. — Emetic, then water with whites of eggs, mag- 
nesia in suspension, milk. Avoid oils. 

Prussic Acid. — Affusions of wa'^^er over the cervical verte 



496 HOUSE-CLEANING. 

bra! Cause the gas from chlorine water to be inhaled. Give 
from twenty to forty drops of Labbaraque's solution largely 
diluted, also cofi'ee. 

Strychnine. — Cause vomiting. Give ether or chloroform by 
inhalation, and chloral internally. Insufflate the lungs. 

Tartar Emetic. — If there is vomiting, favor it by giving 
whites of eggs with water in large quantities, then give infu- 
sion of gall or oak bark. If vomiting is not free, use the 
stomach-punq). 

Venomous Jjites, Scrjxnits. — Ap])ly a moderately tight liga- 
ture above the bite. Wash the wound freely with warm water 
to encourage bleeding, then cauterize thoroughly. Afterwards 
a[iplv lint dipped in equal parts of olive-oil and spirits harts- 
horn. Internally give freely of alcoholic stimulants, with liquid 
ammonia, largely diluted. 

Mabid Dogs. — Apply ligature as above described, wash the 
wound thoroughly with warm water, and cauterize immediately 
with nitric acid or lunar caustic, leaving no part of the wound 
untouched. 



HOUSE-CLEANING. 

Do not clean but one room at a time, as it is a bad ])lau to 
have the whole house in confusion at once. It is best to com- 
mence with the attic. 

Before beginning on your spring cleaning, remove the cur- 
tains, all the movable furniture, and the carpets. With a 
broom and dust-pan remove all dust from the floor. Then 
with a wall-brush thoroughly sweep and dust the ceiling and 
side-walls, window and door frames, pictures and chandeliers. 
Then go over the floor again, removing the dust that has fallen 
from the ceiling and walls. Then proceed to wash all the paint 
in the room. If it be white paint, use whiting or such other 
preparations as are recommended for the purpose in the subse- 



HOUSE-CLEANING. 497 

quent pages. If it be varnished, or in imitation of oak or wal 
nut, wipe with a cloth dipped in milk-warm water. If the 
wood work in the room be of vinvarnished walnut or oak, wipe 
it off first, and then oil it, rubbing in the oil well. 

Then with a soft flannel rag and a cake of sapolio clean every 
piece of marble in the room. Next wipe the mirrors carefully 
with a flannel rag, wrung out of warm water and dipped in a 
little whiting, or you may rub a little silver soap on the rag. 
The gilding must be merely dusted, as the least dampness or a 
drop of water will injure it. 

The windows (sash and all) must then be washed in soap 
ai^id water, witli a common brush siich as is used for washing 
paint. A little soda dissolved in the water will improve the 
appearance of the windows. It is unnecessary to use such a 
quantity of soap and water as to splash everything around. 
After being washed, the windows should be polished with news- 
papers. Except in a general house-cleaning, windows may be 
cleaned by the directions given above for mirrors. 

The metal about the doorknobs, tongs, etc., may be cleaned 
by electro- silicon, and the grates may be varnished with the 
black varnish kept for the purpose by dealers in grates, stoves, 
etc. Every chair and article of furniture should be carefully 
cleaned before being brought back into the room, and linen 
covers should be put on the chairs. If yoii are going to put 
down matting, do so before bringing back the first article of 
furniture. Some housekeepers, however, allow their matting 
to remain during the winter under their carpets. Spots on 
matting may be removed by being scoured with a cloth, dipped 
first in hot water and then in salt. This, however, will cause 
wet spots to appear on it in damp weather. After the spots 
are removed, scrub the matting with dry corn-meal and a coarse 
cloth. Sweep it over several times, till all the meal is removed. 

For persons who do not use matting in summer, a recipe is 

given later for beautifully coloring the floor with boiled linseed 

oil and burnt sienna. Where different woods are used alter 

42 



498 WHITEWASH FOK OUTDOOE TJBE. 

nately in the floor, this oil answers better than re varnishing the 
floor every spring. 

As soon as the carpets are taken up, have them nicely 
shaken, swept, and brushed on both sides. Every spot should 
he carefully waslied and wiped dry. The carpets should then 
be rolled up smoothly, with tobacco sprinkled between the 
folds, sewed up in coarse linen cloths, and put away till autumn. 
A cedar closet is an excellent place to keep carpets as well as 
other woollens. If you have no cedar closet, however, a cedar 
chest will serve to protect your woollen clothes against moths, 
and it is better to preserve them in this way than to sprinkle 
them with tobacco, which imparts an unpleasant scent to them. 

Whitewash for Outdoor Use. 

Take good quick-lime in lumps. Slack it with hot water, and 
while slacking add to what will make a pailful one pound 
tallow or other grease, free from dirt. It may be rancid, smoked, 
or otherwise unfit for kitchen use. 

When the violent slacking is over, stir thoroughly. All the 
water should be added before the slacking ceases, and the mix- 
ing together should be thorough. Do not dilute with cold 
water. If well made, it will be veiy smooth and but little 
affected by rain. — Mrs. E. 

Indoor Whitewashing. 
We have recently seen recommended in a journal a fine 
and brilliant whitewash preparation of chalk, called " Paris 
White," and said to be ad mirable for whitewashing walls. It sells 
in paint stores at three cents per pound, retail. For every sixteen 
pounds Paris White, get h:ilf a pound white transparent glue. 
Cover the glue with cold water at night, and in the morning 
heat it, without scorching, till dissolved. Stir in the Paris 
White with hot water to give it a milky consistency. Then add 
and mix well the glue. Apply with a common lime whitewash 
brush. A single coating will do, except on very dingy walls. 
Almost as brilliant as " Zinc White."— Jfr». S. T. 



TO OIL FLOORS TO WASH CARPETS, 499 

To Oil Floors. 
To one gallon boiled linseed oil add half a pound burnt 
sienna. The druggist who sells these articles will mix them. 
If economy is necessary, instead of employing a painter to put 
it on, dip a large woollen rag into the mixture, and with this 
wipe over the floor. — Mrs. S. T. 

To Dye Floors a Pretty Color, 

Make a strong decoction of the inside bark of red oak. Set 
it a dark color with copperas. 

Have the floors well swept and cleaned of spots. Then with 
a cloth rub the dye in well, taking care to wipe up and down 
the floor, so as to prevent streaking. 

Let it dry, then wipe over with weak lye, and as soon as 
this dries off, rub with a waxed brush. — Mrs. Dr. P. C. 

To Clean Paint, 
Wring out a clean flannel, take up as much powdered 
whiting as will adhere to it, then rub the paint. Wash oil' 
with clean water and rub dry with a soft cloth, and it will look 
new. Not for paint in imitation of oak.— J//S. JR. 

To Wash Oil-Cloth. 
Wash oil-cloths with salt water ; say, one pint salt dissolved 
in a pailful water. When dry wipe over with a little milk and 
water.- -j)/rs, H. D. 

To Wash Oil- Cloth. 
Sweep it well. Wash with cold water, using a brush. Then 
wash with milk and wipe dry. Never use hot water. — Mrs. H. 

To Wash Carpets, 
Shake, beat, and sweep well. Tack firmly on the floor. Mix 
three quarts soft, cold water with one quart beef's gall. Wash 
with a flannel, rub off with a clean flannel, immediately aftei 
putting it on each strip of carpet. — Mrs. H. 



500 TO REMOVH INK FROM CARPETS. 

Carpets sliould be washed in spots, with a brush or flannel, 
one tablespoouful ox-gall in one or two quarts water. — 3frs. A. 

To Remove Ink from Carpets. 
Take up the ink with a spoon. Pour cold water on the 
stained spot, take up the water with a spoon, and repeat this 
process frequently. Then rub on a little oxalic acid and wash 
off immediately with cold water. Then wet with hartshorn. — 
Mrs. E. 

To Clean Marble Slabs, etc;. 

Sal soda, four ounces; powdered pumice-stone, two ounces; 
prepared chalk, two ounces. Mix well, add sufficient water, rub 
well on the marble, and then wash with soap and water. — Dr. 
E. A. G. 

Sapolio, rubbed on a flannel rag which has just been dipped 
m hot water and squeezed, is also good for cleaning marble. — 
Mrs. S. T. 

To Remove Grease from Wall Paper. 
Dip a flannel in spirits of wine and go carefully over the 
soiled places once or twice. — Mrs. H. 

To Clean Furniture. 
One-half pint linseed oil, one half pint vinegar, one-half pint 
turpentine. Apply with a flannel rag, and then rub with a dry 
flannel. — 3frs. JI. /S. 

To Clean Varnished Furniture, Mahogany Especially. 
Wash the jjiece of furniture with warm water and soap, and 
then rub dry ; afterwards take a flannel I'ag, and rub with the 
following mixture: equal proportions of vinegar, sweet-oil, and 
sj)irits of turpentine, in a bottle which must be shaken before 
using.— i!/rs. McG. 

An Excellent Furniture Polish. 
Alcohol, three ounces; linseed oil, boiled, two ounces 



FURNITURK POLISH TO CI-K.VN BRASSES, KTC. 501 

oxalic acid, one drachm ; gvim shellac, two di-achms ; gnm ben- 
zoin, two drachms ; rosin, two drachms. Dissolve the gums in 
the alcohol, and then add oil and oxalic acid. Apply with a 
woollen cloth. — Dr. E. A. C. 

furniture Polish. 
One pint of alcohol, one pint of spirits of turpentine, one and 
one-half pint of raw linseed oil, one ounce balsam fir, one ounce 
ether. Cut the balsam with the alcohol, which will take about 
twelve hours. [That is to say, dilute the balsani with the 
alcohol.] Mix the oil with the tui-pentiue in a sepai-ate vessel 
and add the alcohol, and last the ether. — G. O. W. 

To Clean Silver. 
There is nothing better for this purpose than Colgate's Silver 
Soap, and Robinson's Indexical Silver Soa[), made in Boston. 
After the silver has been cleaned, according to the directions 
accompanying each package of the aforementioned kinds of 
soap, wash it in a pan of hot water in wliich a tablespoouful of 
ammonia has been j)oured. — 3Irs. /S. T. 

To Clean Silver. 
Make a paste of whiting and spirits of wine. Put it on 
with a soft cloth, then rub it off also with a soft cloth, and 
polish with chamois skin. — 3frs. H. 

To Remove Egg Stains from Silver Spoons. 
Rub with salt, and it will entirely remove the discoloration 
produced by eating a boiled egg with a silver spoon. Rubbing 
with salt will also remove the grayish streaks that collect on 
white tea-china by careless usage. — Mrs. M. C. C 

To Clean Brasses, etc;. 
Electro-silicon, manufactured by J. Setli Hopkins & Co., 
Baltimore, is the best article that can be procured for this pur- 
pose. The price is twenty-five cents per box, with full dircc- 



502 FOR THE KITCHEN. 

tions for use. It may be procured of any druggist. If noi 
convenient to get it, use powdered brick-dust. — Mrs. K T. 

For the Kitchen. 
Sapolio, manufactured by Enoch Morgan & Sons, should be 
in every kitchen. It is invaluable for cleaning tins, iron- ware, 
knobs, and is so neat a preparation that it does not blacken the 
hau Is. 

The Dover Egg-Beater 
Is indispensable to housekeepers. It froths eggs in less than 
a fourth of the time a spoon or an ordinary egg-beater requires 
to froth them. — Mrs. IS. T. 

To Remove Rust from Knives or any Steel. 
Rub very hard with a piece of wash leather, dipped in 
powdered charcoal, moistened with spirits of wine. Rub off 
quickly, wash in hot water, and renew as may be necessary. — 
Mrs. K. 

To Clean Knives, Tins, etc. 

Crystal Kitchen Soap, manufactured by Eastman & Brooke, 
Philadelphia, is excellent for tliis purpose, being so neat a 
compound that the knives and coffee -2)ot, as well as the tins 
used in the preparation of breakfast, may be quickly cleaned at 
the table while the tea-china is being washed. 

When not convenient to obtain the Crystal Kitchen Soap, 
knives may be cleaned with ashes either of coal or wood. — Mrs. 
S. T. 

To Whiten the Ivory on the Handles of Knives. 
The ivory handles of knives sometimes become yellow from 
being allowed to remain in dish-water. Rub them with sand- 
papev till white. If the blades have become rusty from careless 
usage, rub them also with sandpaper and they will look as nice 
as new. — Mrs. S. T. 



mlxrur?: for shading glass remedy for red ants. 503 

Mixture for Shading Glass. 
Spanish whiting, one pound; white glue, one-quarter pound; 
litharge, one ounce ; alum, one ounce. Boil the ghie and alum 
in a sufficient quantity of water. Let it cool, then add the 
whiting and litharge. Stir well and use at once. It may be 
washed or scraped off, if desired. — Dr. E. A. C 

Cement for Rubber and Glass. 
Pulverized gum shellac in ten times its weight of strong 
spirits hartshorn. — Dr. E. A. C. 

To Destroy Bedbugs. 
Dissolve one ounce corrosive sublimate in one pint strong 
.^pirits. Put it on the bedsteads with a feather, and it will de- 
stroy the bugs and their eggs also. — Mrs. Dr. P. G. 

Bedbug Poison. 

Alcohol, two and a half pints ; camphor, one ounce ; spirits tur- 
pentine, one ounce ; corrosive sublimate, half an ounce. Mix and 
dissolve. If the scent is not objectionable, two ounces com- 
mercial carbolic acid will greatly improve the above. — Dr. E. 
A. 0. 

To Destroy Bugs, Ants, etc. 

Dissolve two pounds alum in three quarts boiling water. 
Apply boiling hot with a brush. Add alum to whitewash for 
store-rooms, pantries, and closets. It is well to pound alum fine 
and sprinkle it about beds infested with bugs. — Mrs. S. T. 

Remedy for Red Ants. 

Kerosene oil is a sure remedy for red ants. Place small 
blocks under a sugar barrel, so as not to let the oil touch the 
barrel. — Mrs. J. W. 

Cayenne pepper will keep the store-room and panti-y free froro 
ants and cockroaches. — Mrs. S. D. 



504: remedy fok mosquitoes ok blood-sucking insects. 

Remedy for Mosquitoes or other Blood-suckino Insects. 
Uncork a bottle of oil of pennyroyal, and it will drive them 
away, nor will they return so long as the scent of it is in the 
room. — Mrs. S. D. 

For the stings of insects, wasps, hornets, bees, etc. Apply to 
the place soda, hartshorn, or arnica. 

Rats. 
Miv a little powdered potash with meal and throw it into the 
rat-holes and it will not fail to drive the rats away. If a mouse 
enters into any part of your dwelling, saturate a rag with 
cayenne in solution and stuff it into his hole. — 3Irs. S. D. 

CoNCENTKATED liYE SoAP. 

All fat and grease from the kitchen should be carefully saved, 
and shoidd be made into soap before accumulating and becoming 
offensive. 

Boil for six hours ten gallons of lye made of green wood 
ashes. Then add eight or ten pounds of grease, and continue to 
boil it. If thick or ropy, add more lye till the grease is 
absorbed. This is ascertained by dropping a spoonful in a glass 
of water, and if grease remains it will show on the water. 

If hard soap is desired, put one quart of salt in half-gallon of 
hot water. Stir till dissolved and pour into the boiling soap. 
Boil twenty minutes, stirring continually. Remove from the 
fire, and when cold cut in cakes and dry. A box of concen- 
trated lye may be used instead of salt, as it will obviate the 
necessity of using more dripped lye to consume the grease. — 
Mrs. P. W. 

A Washing Mixture. 

Mix and boil twenty minutes one gallon soft soap ; half a 

gallon of weak boiled lye ; four ounces sal soda ; half a gill of 

spirits turpentine. Soak the clothes overnight in milk-warm 

water. In the morning, rinse and wring thein. To every gal- 



FOE CLEANING CLOTHES TO WASH BLACK CASHMERE. 505 

Ion cold water add one pint of the above mixture. Stir it well 
in the water. Open the clothes and boil fifteen or twenty min- 
utes ; rinse out of those suds. If the articles are not thoroughly 
cleansed, rub a little of the mixture on the soiled places, and the 
result will be satisfactory. — Mrs. Dr. E. 



RECIPES FOR RESTORING OLD CLOTHES, SETTING 
COLORS, REMOVING STAINS, ETC. 

For Cleaning Clothes. 
Castile soa[), one ounce; aqua ammonia (34), a quarter-pound ; 
sulphur ether, one ounce ; glycerine, one ounce ; spirits wine, 
one ounce. Shave the soap into thin pieces, dissolve it in two 
quai-ts rain (or any other soft water). Then add the other 
ingredients. Rub the soiled spots with a sponge or piece of 
flannel and expose to the air. — Mrs. H. 

Soap to Remove Grease from Cloth. 
Detersive soap, three pounds ; alcohol, two pints ; oxalic 
acid, half an ounce ; essential oil to flavor. First bring the 
alcohol to a boil, tlien gradually add the soap (pared in thin 
shavings) and stir constantly. Then add the acid and oil, pour 
into moulds while hot, and let it cool. You may, of course, 
make it in smaller quantities, observing the same relative pro- 
portions. — Dr. E. A. G. 

To Remove Spots from Cloth. 
Aqua ammonia, two ounces ; alcohol, two ounces ; spirits cam- 
phor, one ounce ; transparent soap, one ounce ; rain-water, one 
quart.— Jfr. E. C, Jr. 

To Wash Black Cashmere. 

Wash in hot suds, with a little borax in the water. Rinse 
in bluing water, and iron very damp. 

43 



506 TO REST(3RE THE PILE OF VELVET. 

To Restore the Pile of Velvet. 
Heat a large flat-iron, place it in a pan, and lay on it a wet 
cloth. The steam will rise rapidly. Hold the right side of the 
velvet over it. If this does not restore the pile, wet it 
on the wrong side. Have a smooth flat-iron very hot. Set 
it on the edge of the table, upright. If it is a narrow piece 
of velvet, it may be easily ironed by passing the wet side against 
the iron. If a large piece, have some one to hold the botton 
of the iron upwards while the wet side of the velvet is passed 
over it. — Mrs. S. T. 

To Eestore old Black Silk. 
Pour one pint boiling water on two tablespoonfuls gum arabic. 
When a little cooled, add one teaspoonful spirits turpentine and 
the same of spirits ammonia. With a large sponge wipe the 
sDk on both sides with this mixture. Then lay the silk on an 
ironing-table, place over it a thin piece of colored rice cambric, 
and iron it very hard with a hot iron. This makes old silk 
look like new. — Mrs. S. T. 

To Freshen old Black Silk. 
Boil one ounce crushed soap bark in one quart water till re- 
duced to one pint. Strain it ; sponge the material with the 
liquid, and while wet iron on the wrong side. Good for black 
woollens also. — Mrs. M. E. L. W. 

To Renew Black Crape Veils. 
Wring two large towels out of water. Then put the veil 
(folded across the middle, lengthways) on the lower towel ; 
spread the other on top and roll the veil, when between, in a 
small tight roll. Let it stand an hour, or till it is damp through. 
Take it out and air it a little before it dries. Fold it then in 
smooth squares, put it in a large book, such as an atlas, put 
lieavy weights on it, and let it; stand an hour or two. — Mrs. 

M. b. c. 



TO SET COLORS — FOR REMOVING FRUIT OR INK STAINS. 507 

To Set Colors. 

Wash in strong salt or alum water and rinse in water in 
which Irish potatoes have been sliced and boiled, to stiffen. 

A strong tea of hay or fodder preserves the color of brown 
linen. One spoonful gall to a gallon of water will set the colors 
of almost any goods. A teaspoonful sugar of lead in a gallon 
cold water (some say a tablespoonful in a quart soft water) 
will set colors. Let the material soak in it an hour. 

A teacup of lye in a pail of water will improve black calicoes. 

To Restore Colors that have been taken out. 
Rub the spots with hartshorn and place in the sun till dry. 

To Keep Blue Calicoes Bright and Fresh. 
The first time they are washed, put them in water with a 
cupful spirits of turpentine to each pail of water. This will 
set the color, and they will always look well. 

Mildew. 
Moisten the mildewed spot with clear water, then rub over it 
a thick coating of castile soap. Scrape chalk with the soap, 
mixing and rubbing with the end of the finger. Then wash it 
off. Sometimes one coating suffices, but generally several are re- 
quired. 

Labaraque Solution 

Will remove mildew, ink, or almost any fruit stain fi-om cloth. 
The solution should be washed off soon after applying, as it may 
injure the cloth — Br. E. A. G. 

To Prevent Fruit Stains from being Permanent. 
Wet the stained spot with whiskey before sending it tc wash, 
and there will be no sign of it when the article comes in. 

For Removing Fruit or Ink Stains. 
Two drachms chloride of lime, two drachms acetic acid, onn 
and a half ounce water. Mix well — Dr. E. A. C. 



508 iron rust — miscellaneous recipes. 

Iron Rust. 
Salts of lomon applied to the place and exposed to the sun 
will remove all iron rust in linen, etc. 



MISCELLANEOUS RECIPES. 

Ammonia. 

No housekeeper should be without a bottle of spirits of am- 
monia, for, besides its medical value, it is highly useful for 
household purposes. It is nearly as iiseful as soap, and its 
3heapness brings it in the reach of all. Put a teaspoonful 
immouia in a quart of warm soapsuds, dip in a flannel cloth, 
wipe off the dvist and fly-specks, and see how much sci'ubbing it 
will save you. 

For washing windows and mirrors, it is very desirable. A 
few drops on a piece of paper will take oS every spot or finger- 
mark on the glass. 

It cleanses and biightens silver wonderfully. Dip your 
forks, spoons, etc., in a pint of suds, mixed with a teaspoonful 
spirits ammonia. Then rub with a brush and polish with 
chamois skin. 

It will take grease s})ots from every fabric. Put on the 
ammonia nearly clear. Lay blotting ])aper on the place, and 
press a hot flat-iron on it a few moments. A few drops of it 
will clean and whiten laces, also muslins. 

It is highly useful and refreshing at the toilet-table. A few 
drops in the bath will remove all offensive perspiration and 
glossiness (if the skin is oily). Nothing is better for cleansing 
the hair from dust and dandruff. A teaspoonful in a pint of 
water will cleanse the dirtiest brushes. Shake the brushes 
through the water, and when they look white, rin.se them in 
water and put them in the sunshine or a warm place to dry. 

For medicinal purposes ammonia is almost unrivalled 



BOEAX — BLACK INK. 509 

Inhaling it will often cure headache and catarrhal cold. Ten 
drops aromatic spirits of ammonia in a wine-glass of water is 
excellent for heartburn or dyspepsia. The ordinary spirits of 
ammonia may be used also for the purpose, but it is not so 
palatable. 

Ammonia is also good for vegetation If you desire roses, 
fuschias, geraniums, etc., to become more flourishing, add five 
or six drops ammonia to every pint of lukewarm water you give 
them. Do not repeat this more than once in five or six days, 
lest you should stimulate them too highly. 

Be sure to keep a large bottle of ammonia in the house, and 
use a glass stopper for it, as it is very evanescent and is injuri- 
ous to corks. 

[The above remarks on the usefulness of ammonia were fur- 
nished and endorsed by Mrs. A. D., of Virginia.] 

Borax. 

It is very desirable to keep borax in the house. Its effect is 
to soften the hardest water, and it is excellent for cleansing 
the hair. Some washerwomen use borax for a washing powder, 
instead of soda, in the proportion of a handful of borax powder 
to ten gallons boiling water, and they save in soap nearly half, 
whilst the borax, being a neutral salt, does not injure the tex- 
ture of the linen.— Jfrs. jS. T. 

Red Ink. 
Bicarb, potash, half an ounce ; cochineal, half an ounce ; bi- 
tart. potash, half an ounce ; powdered alum, half an ounce ; 
pure rain-water, four ounces. Mix, and add ten drops creo- 
wte.—Dr. E. A. C. 

Black Ink. 
Extract logwood (pulv.), two ounces; hot rainwater, one 
gallon. Simmer over water-bath one hour, till logwood is dis- 
solved. Put into a bottle the following : bichromate potass., 



510 COMMON BOrrLE WAX — iJAKING POWDKItS. 

one hundred grains; prus. of potass., forty grains; warm rain- 
water, four ounces. Shake till dissolved, put into the logwood 
solution, stir well together, strain through flannel, and, when 
cold, add corrosive sublimate, ten grains ; warm rain water, 
one ounce. Dissolve thoroughly, put with the above, and add 
pure carbolic acid crys., one drachm. This makes the best 
black ink in the v orld, at a cost of about ten cents a gallon. — 

Dr. E. A. G 

Common Bottle Wax. 

Rosin, eighteen ounces ; shellac, one ounce ; beeswax, two 

ounces. Melt together and color to suit the fancy. — Dr. E. 

A. C. 

Grafting Wax. 

Rosin, two pounds ; beeswax, one pound ; tallow, one 
pound. Melt together, pour into a tub of cold water, and 
work with the hands till pliable. — Dr. E. A. C. 

Liquid Glue. 
Acetic acid, one ounce ; water, half an ounce ; glue, two 
ounces; gum tragacanth, one ounce. Mix and dissolve. — Dr. 

E. A. a 

Shoe Blacking [equal to Mason's). 
Ivory black, twelve ounces ; molasses, four ounces ; sperm- 
oil, one ounce ; oil of vitriol, by weight, two drachms ; vinegar, 
one pint. Mix the black, molasses, and oil, and add the vine- 
gar gradually, stirring all the time. Then add the oil of vit- 
riol very carefully, stirring coQstantly, till effervescence ceases. 

—Dr. E. A. C. 

Liquid Blacking. 

Ivory black, in fine powder, one pound; molasses, twelve 
ounces ; sweet-oil, two ounces ; beer and vinegar, two pints of 
each. Mix thoroughly together. — Dr. E. A. C. 

What Most of the Baking Powders are Composed of. 
[One of the Best.) 
Cream tartar, twelve and one-quarter ounces ; bicarb, soda 



TO URY IIKKHS — COLD CREAM. 51 1 

(Eng)., six and one-half ounces ; tartaric acid, one and one- 
third ounces ; carbonate of ammonia, four-fifths of an ounce ; 
good wheat flour, four ounces. Mix thoroughly, and pass 
through a fine sieve. — Dr. E. A. C. 

To Dry Herbs. 
CJather on a dry day, just before they flower. Put them in 
an oven, and when dry take them out, pick off the leaves, put 
bi bottles, cover tightly, and keep in a dry place.— iliTri-. li. 

To Keep Weevil out of Wheat. 
Put the wheat in barrels, smooth it, and spi'inkle a layer of 
salt over the top. Keep the barrels well covered by tying 
cloths over them. A sure preventive. — Mrs. Dr. P. C. 

Fertilizer for Strawberries. 
Nitrate of jjotash, one pound ; glauber salts, one pound ; 
sal soda, one pound ; nitrate of ammonia, one-quarter pound. 
Dissolve the above in forty gallons of water, one-third to be 
ajiplied when the leaves begin to appear, one-third ten days 
later, and the rest when the vines begin to bloom. This quan- 
tity is for forty feet square. — 3Irs. R. 

Red Lip Salve. 
Oil of sweet almonds, two ounces ; pure olive-oil, six ounces ; 
spermaceti, one and one-half ounce ; white wax, one ounce. 
Color with carmine, and perfume with oil of roses. — Dr. ]£. 
A. C. 

Lotion for Chaps. 
Borax, two drachms ; strong rose-water, twelve ounces ; 
glycerine, three ounces ; mucilage of quince seed, ten drachms. 
Mi.<.— Dr. JE. A. C. 

Cold Cream. 

Ruse-water, half an ounce ; oil of sweet almonds, half an 
ounce ; pure olive-oil, two ounces ; spermaceti, half an ounce ; 



512 CAMPHOR ICE FOR THE TEETH. 

white wax, one drachm. Melt .s})erm and wax with the oil by 
means of water-bath. Then add the rose-water, and stir till 
cool. When nearly cool, add oil of roses or any other perfume 
desired.— Dr. E. A. C. 

Camphor Ice. 
White wax, two ounces; spermaceti, two ounces and two 
drachms; camphor, six drachms. Melt, and add olive-oil, 
five ounces and five drachms ; glycerine, three drachms. Make 
into eighteen cakes. — Dr. E. A. C. 

Camphor Salve for Chapped Lips, Hands, etc. 

Spermaceti, two drachms ; white wax, two drachms ; pul- 
verized camphor, two drachms ; washed lard, half an ounce ; 
pure olive-oil, half an ounce. Melt in water-bath, and stii 
with it, while cooling, two drachms glycerine. 

Note. — This is excellent, will relieve almost instantly, and 
will cure in a few applications. — Dr. E. A. C 

Tooth Powder. 
Prepared chalk, two pounds ; powdered orris-root, two 
pounds ; powdered white castile soap, quarter of a pound ; 
powdered white sugar, quarter of a pound ; powdered pumice- 
stone, half an ounce ; powdered carmine, half an ounce ; oil of 
lemon, half an ounce ; oil of lavender, half an ounce. Powder 
the carmine as fine as possible ; then add to it the pumice-stone, 
then the sugar, then the soap, orris, and chalk in succession. 
Then add the flavorir^ drop by drop, mixing it thoroughly with 
all the ingredients. Sift through the finest apothecaries' sieve. 
—Dr. E. A. C. 

F( ' the Teeth. 
Van Buskirk's Sozodont, maniifactured by Hall h Ruck el, 
N. Y., is all that it claims to be. I have known it tried ter 
years cousecutiiely with the happiest i-esults. — Mrs. S. T, 



charcoal tooth powder — shampoo liquor. 512 

Charcoal Tooth Powder, 
Powdered charcoal, six ounces ; gum myrrh, one ounce ; pale 
Peruvian bark, one ounce. Mix thoroughly. — Dr. E. A. C. 

Hair-Oil. 
Pure olive-oil, six ounces ; perfumed with oil of jessamine. 
—Dr. E. A. C. 

Hair- Oil. 

Castor-oil, ten ounces ; pure alcohol, six ounces. Perfume 
with oil of bergamot or any other perfume preferred. — Dr. E. 

A. a 

Hair Tonic. 

Glycerine, one and a half ounces ; tincture cantharides (95 
per cent.), half an ounce ; sulph. quinine, twenty grains ; alco- 
hol, four ounces. Mix together ; perfume with oil of roses. — 
Dr. E. A. a 

Another Hair Tonic ^ 

Claimed to restoi-e falling out hair, when baldness is not hered- 
itary. Tincture of cantharides (officinal), one ounce ; glycerine, 
one and a half ounce ; rose-water, three and a half ounces. — 

Dr. E. A. a 

Hair Dye, No. 1. 

Pyrogallic acid, one drachm; distilled water, three ounces. 
Dissolve.— Xfr. E. A. C. 

No. 2. 
Nitrate of silver (crystals), one drachm ; aqua ammonia, 
strong, two drachms ; distilled water, six drachms. Mix. — Dr. 
E. A. G. 

Hair Restorative. 

Sugar of lead (chemically pure), one drachm ; milk of suli)hur, 
two drachms ; rose-water, four ounces ; glycerine, one ounce. 
Mix.— 2>r. E. A. C. 

Shampoo Liquor. 

Bay rum, three quarts; tincture cantharides (officinal), one 
22* 



514 KOSE BANDOLINE TO REMOVE BLOOD STAINR. 

and a half ounces ; caib. ammonia, half an ounce ; salts of 
tartar, one ounce. Mix. Thoroughly cleanse the hair with 
clean water after using. — Dr. E. A. C 

liOSE Bandoline. 
Gum tragacantli, six ounces ; rose-water, one gallon; otto of 
roses, half an ounce. Steep the gum in the water a day or two. 
Agitate frequently while forming into a gelatinous mass. After 
standing forty-eight hours, strain through a clean, coarse linen 
cloth. Again let it stand a few days, and then strain a second 
time. When tlie consistency is uniform, add the otto of roses, 
and color with carmine. — JJr. E. A. C 

Almond Bandoline 
Is made as the above, except that no coloring is used, and it iis 
scented with quarter of an ounce of oil of bitter almonds 
instead of rose. — Dr. E. A. C. 

To Clean the Hair and Hair-Brushes and Combs. 
Dissolve one ounce borax and half an ounce carajjhor in a 
quart boiling water. For cleaning combs and brushes use two 
teaspoonfuls supercarbonate soda dissolved in half a pint boil- 
ing water, or else use one teaspoonful hartshorn dissolved in a 
little water. — 3Trs. H. 

To Remove Dandruff. 
Wash the hair thoroughly in rain-water with a good deal of 
borax dissolved in it. — Jl/rs. C C 

To Eemove Blood Stains. 
Make a thin paste of starch and water. Si)read over the 
stain. Wlieu diy, brush tlie starch off and the stain is gone. 
Two or three applications will remove the worst stains. — 
Mrs. D. 



I N D K X . 



BREAD. 

PAGB 

Batter bread 56 

" " 2d recipe 57 

" 3d " 57 

Brown bread 40 

Biscuit, beaten 42 

" " 2d recipe 42 

" " cream 42 

" " French 41 

" " excellent light .... 43 

" light 43 

" soda 42 

" " thick 43 

" " thin or crackers. .. 43 

Box bread 40 

Bunns 30 

Cakes, Virginia ash 01 

batter 55 

" 2d recipe 55 

" made of .stale bread 55 

" cheap recipe 56 

old Virginia batter cakes . . 55 

" " " 2d 56 

Cakes, Boston cream 53 

breakfast 50 

buckwheat 51 

' ' 2d recipe 52 

3d '■ 52 

" _ 4th " 52 

buttermilk 54 

corn 58 

cream .52 

" 2d .53 

" 3d .53 

farina 54 

flannel 51 

" 2d method 51 

" 3d " 51 

Indian griddle 50 

Madison 50 

orange 50 

rice 54 

sour milk 54 

velvet 50 

Coru-bread, plain 61 

" light 59 



Crackers, Huntsville 4^ 

" soda 43 

" water 44 

Cracklin-bread 60 

Egg-bread 60 

" old-fashioned 50 

" " soft 59 

Family bread 29 

Graham bread 40 

Grit or hominy bread 58 

" " " 2d recipe. . . 58 

Henrietta bread 45 

Indian " (iO 

Lapland " 45 

" " plain recipe -15 

New bread 45 

Leaven 27 

Light bread 31 

Jenny Lind bread 46 

Loaf, cottage 39 

Loaf bread 29 

" " old Virginia 29 

" " 3d metiiod 30 

Lunch bread 46 

Lunn, quick Sallie 36 

" Sallie2d 34 

" 3d 35 

" 4th 35 

" .5th 35 

Old maids 39 

Muffins 36 

2d 37 

3d 38 

bread 38 

corn 57 

cream 38 

white egg 38 

Parker House 37 

salt sulphur 36 

soda 38 

superior 37 

sweet spring 36 

Mush bread .59 

Pockets 34 

Pone, St. Nicholas 58 

Potato bread 39 



616 



INDEX. 



PAGE 

Puffs, breakfast 46 

" nun's 44 

Rice bread 60 

Rolls, hot or cold loaf bread 81 

" French TL 

2d 33 

" " or twist 33 

" pocket-book 33 

" velvet 32 

Rusks 40 

" egg 41 

" German 41 

Salt risen bread 47 

" lid 47 

Turnovers 83 

Twist 34 

Wafers 44 

Waffles 47 

" 2d 48 

" 3d 48 

' ' corn meal 57 

" mush 49 

' ' rice 49 

"2d 49 

" superior rice 49 

" soda 48 

" another recipe 48 

Yeast 25 

' ' alum 27 

" another recipe 26 

" Irish potato 26 

" that never fails 26 



COFFEE, TEA AND 
CHOCOLATE. 

Cafo au lait 63 

CofTee, to make 62 

" 3d 62 

" boiled 61 

" dripped or tiltered 63 

2d 63 

" to toast 61 

Broma 65 

Chocolate 65 

Cocoa 65 

Black tea i'A 

" 2d 64 

Green " 63 

" 2d 64 

" " a good cup of 64 

Iced " 64 

MILK AND BUTTER. 



Butter, to secure nice for the table 
in winter 



67 



TMon 

Butter, putting ip 67 

Clabber 67 

Cottage cheese ()8 



SOUP. 

Asparagus soup 83 

" 2d 83 

Beef " 74 

" 2d 74 

Beefs head, to prepare as stock 

for soup 74 

Calf's head soup 75 

" 2d 75 

" •' " od 76 

" 4th 76 

" .5th 77 

" " " brown 77 

Clam soup 72 

"2d 73 

Chicken soup 78 

" 2d 79 

Crab " 73 

" 2d 74 

Giblet " 79 

Gumbo " 80 

" 2d SO 

Okra " 79 

Oxtail " 78 

Oyster " 69 

"2d 70 

" 3d..... 70 

" " economical 69 

" " puree of 'iO 

Pea " 83 

" " green 84 

" " 2d 84 

Potato " 84 

"2d 84 

Terrapin soup, mock 72 

Turtle " 71 

" 2d 71 

" 3d 12 

" " mock 72 

Tomato " 82 

" 2d t2 

" " clear 83 

Veal " roast, and chicken 

bone soup 79 

Vegetable soup 81 

" " fine 80 



OYSTERS AND OTHER 

SHELL FISH 

Clam or oyster fritters 90 



INDEX. 



517 



FAGK 

Crabs, to cook 94 

" deviUed 94 

2d 94 

' ' hard, to devil 95 

Crab stew 94 

" soft 95 

Lobster curry 95 

Terrapin 96 

" or turtle in batter 96 

" " steaks 96 

" " stew 96 

Turtles, to cook 96 

" stewed 96 

Oysters, broiled 90 

" to cook 86 

" 89 

" devilled 88 

" " 88 

" fritters 89 

" 89 

" to fry 89 

" fried 89 

" " 2d 90 

" to fry 90 

" " 2d 90 

" to keep alive and fatten. 94 

" pates 9:3 

" pie 93 

" "2d 92 

" pickled 91 

" " 2d 91 

•' " 3d 92 

' ' raw 93 

" to roast 91 

" sausage 93 

' ' steamed 90 

" shortcake 93 

" scalloped 86 

2d 87 

3d 87 

" " 4th 88 



FISH. 

A la crSme 98 

Cat fish 99 

'' " or hog fish 99 

Cod fish balls 104 i 

" " boiled 104 ! 

" " salt, to dress 105 j 

" " Nantucket 105' 

Chowder 99 : 

Chowder, 2d 100 

Drum or sturgeon 104 1 

German fish stew 107 i 

Halibut 98 

" 2d 98' 



PAGB 

Mackerel, boiled 105 

to broil 105 

" salt, to cook 106 

Perch, to fry 1U4 

Rock fish, baked ] 01 

Hock, to boil 101 

" boiled, 2d 101 

" pickled 102 

" to stew 101 

Shad, baked 102 

" to barbecue 103 

" " broil 102 

" "fry 102 

" potted 103 

" to roast 102 

Salmon, to bake, to boil and steak 106 

" to pickle 107 

Sheep's head, to bake 100 

" or rock, to boil 100 

" to bake, 2d 100 

" " " 3d 101 

" boiled lUO 

Sturgeon, baked 104 

" cutlet 103 

" scolloped 103 

Trout, to fry 104 



GAIIE. 

Duck, vnld Ill 

" " to cook for breakfast . Ill 

Fowl " " roast in a stove 110 

Goose " Ill 

" 2d Ill 

Partridges, to broil 112 

" and pheasants, to cook 113 

" to roast 113 

Pigeon, to broil 112 

pie 113 

" to stew 113 

Rabbit, barbecue 109 

" roast 109 

" stewed 109 

" 2d 109 

Reed birds, to dress 113 

Sora, ortolans and other small 

birds, to cook 113 

Sora, ortolans aud other small 

birds, to cook 1 14 

Sora, ortolans, robins and other 114 

small birds, to cook 

Squirrel, to barbecue 108 

Turkey, wild 110 

" " simple way of pre- 
paring 110 

Venison, haunch 108 

" " of 107 



;i8 



rXDKX. 



Venison, stewed , 



2d. 



MEATS. 



PAGE ' PAQ8 

. 108 Headiind jowl of jMg to ste>v 134 

. 108 Jowl oi shoat V.'>A 

Roast pig ].'>-i 

" slioat I'-i'i 



Backljone or chine, to cook 120 ' 

pie 120 

Bacou, to cure 125 

' ' curing 1 25 

" fried loO ' 

" and greens 129 

'' shoulder of 1 29 

Chine, to dress 121 

" roast 121 

Ham, baked 127 j 

" 2d 128 [ 

" or tongue, bake 127' 

broiled 129 

" of pork, to cook 121 

" for curing 125 ' 

" Virginia mode of curing. . 124 

to boil 120 

" " 2d 127 

" weighing 10 lbs 126 

fried 129 

" an improvemeut to 1~'5 

relish 131 

.•=piced 129 

'* stuffed and baked 128 ' 

' ' to stuff, fresh cured 1 28 

" toast 131 

" 2d lol 

Jowl and turnip salad 130 

Lard, to cure 1-4 

Leg of p' prk stuffed 121 

Pickled pork, equal to fresh l-iO 

Pork royal 122 

" steak 119 

Sausage meat 122 

" excellent recipe 1~2 

" seasoning for 122 

Salt pork, how to cook 131 

Spate ribs 1 19 

" " pork 119 

" M 119 

" 4th 119! 

" " grisken and short ribs, j 

to cook 120 I 

Souse cheese 12o 

" to make from hogs' feet ... 123 

Sweetljrea/l of hog 12o 

Tongue or ham, potted 1'->1 

Barbecue shoat 1 .'^2 

Forcquarter of shoat to roast. . . . 1'j2 

Head of shoat 184 

" " '• to stew 1M5 

" " pig to hash lijij 



BEEF AXD VEAL. 

A-la mode 140 

" 2d. 140 

" 3d 141 

Boiled beef and turnips 141 

Brine for beef 154 

Brains, croquettes 151 

" to dress 150 

" fry 150 

" " " 1..0 

" " stew 150 

Collaps, beef 14<; 

Collar 142 

Cow heel Ih'.i 

" " fried 153 

Corned beef 1-54 

" 2d 15e 

" " od 150 

" " and tongues 155 

" " or pork 155 

" round, to cook 158 

" beef, how to cook 159 

" " tongue, to cook 158 

Cure " for drying 159 

" " ham IfiO 

Daube Froide 153 

Dry Ijeef and tongue KJO 

French dish 153 

Frizzleil beef 144 

Fricasseed beef 145 

Gravy Ijrown 152 

" for roast beef 152 

Heel of beef to fry 153 

Hunter's beef or spiced round. . . . 15*5 

" " " " 2d. 157 

Heartof " 147 

Kidneys, broiled 148 

fried 148 

" 2<l 148 

grilled 148 

" stewed 147 

" 2d 147 

Liver 149 

" fried 149 

" to fry 149 

" to fry with onions 149 

" dried for relish 149 

Ox-heart, to roast 147 

Roast beef 138 

" " 2d 139 

Rib roast of beef 139 



INDKX. 



519 



Round of beef, to spice I5T 

Rump " " to stew 145 

Steak, broiled 142 

2d 143 

' ' how to cook 148 

" fried 144 

" to fry 144 

" fried with onions 143 

Stew, Lebanon 1 40 

Sausage, beef 1 52 

" bologna 152 

Smoked beef 1 59 

Spiced " 157 

Tongue a la terrapin 1 4t; 

"■ toast 147 

" to stew 14G 

" to pickle 1 55 

Tripe 151 

" 2d 151 

" to fry 152 

" " prepare 151 

Calves' brains 167 

Cake, of veal 104 

Chopd, veal liil 

Cutlets, veal 102 

" 2.1 102 

" "• od 102 

Cold veal, dressed with white 

sauce 163 

Daub veal I'iT 

Feet, calf's, dressed as terrapins. . 1 05 

Head, calf's 107 

" " to bake 107 

Liver, bewitched 100 

" broiled 1 05 

" to fi-y If.r. 

" " 2d li>0 

" simple way of cooking.... 100 

Loaf, veal ) 03 

" 2d 164 

Loin of veal, stewed 100 

Minced " 103 

Roast " 101 

Steak " 101 

Sweetbreads 105 

2d 105 

3d. 105 



MUTTON AND LAMB. 

BroQed 170 

ChoDs, mutton 173 

" 2d 172 

" 3d 173 

'* " broiled 173 

Corned " 171 

Leg jf mutton, boileil 170 



Leg of mutton, boiled, 2d 170 

" roast lO'J 

Roast mutton l*'-) 

Saddle of mutton, to cook 171 

" " 171 

" " iced 17) 

- " " to roast 170 

Shoulder " earned 172 

Slices, grilled 1''4 

Stew 1 73 

" 2d 173 

Tongues, sheep 174 

Lamb's head 175 

" " to fricassee 17.5 

Roast lamb 1 74 

Shoulder of lamb, to grill 174 

Decorations and garnishes for 

cold meat and salads 175 

POULTRY. 

Chickens 1 >^3 

" to boil IM 

" broil Ib7 

" " dress with tomatoes, l^li 

" "fricassee 1S7 

" fried 180 

" 2d 186 

pie 187 

" 2d 188 

" puddmg 188 

2d 188 

" " with potatoes. . 188 

" to roast 1^4 

" smothered 185 

' ' to steam 1 ^'4 

" '• stew 1^5 

" " •' 18.5 

Ducks, young, to prepare liiO 

to stow li>0 

Goose, devilled 189 

to roast IS'.) 

Turkey, boiled 180 

2d 180 

" boned 181 

devilled 181 

" hash 181 

Turkey, meat jelly for 18^3 

" roast 178 

" 2d 178 

" 3d 179 

" " with truffles 179 

" to steam ISO 

SALADS. 

Celery salad 196 

Chicken " 19A 



520 



INDEX. 



PAGE 

Chicken salad, 2d 195 

3rl 195 

" " 4th 196 

" for 35 people 195 

Fish salad 192 

Irish potato salad 198 

Lettuce salad 198 

" dressed 200 

" " 200 

Lf bster salad. 192 

Oyster " 191 

Potato " 197 

" " 2d 198 

Salmon salad, and lobster 191 

Slaw 199 

" cold 199 

" " 2d 199 

Terrapin salad 193 

Tomato " 197 

Turnip " 197 

Turkey " 193 

" 2d 193 

" 3d 194 

Veal and potato salad 197 



SAUCES. 

Anchovy sauce 202 

Apple " 204 

Cod's head " for 201 

Fish " 200 

" " 2d 201 

" " 3d 202 

" " or sauce for salad. 200 

Dutch " for fish 201 

Horseradish sauce 202 

Maitre d'Hote sauce 202 

Mint sauce 2U4 

Mushroom sauce 203 

" 203 

.Nasturtium " 204 

Onion " 204 

Pepper vinegar 203 

Tomato sauce 203 



SAUCES ESPECIALLY SUITA- 
BLE FOR FOWLS. 

Asparagus sauce 205 

Celery " 205 

Cranberry " 206 

Drawn butter 205 

2d 206 

3d 206 



FAOB 

Egg sauce 205 

Mushroom sauce 206 

Oyster " 205 

Sauce for boiled poultry 205 

White sauce 204 



SALAD DRESSING. 

Cabbage dressing 208 

Celery dressing 211 

2d 211 

Chicken salad dressing 208 

Cold slaw " 210 

Lettuce " 208 

" 2d 210 

Sana Mayonnaise 209 

Salad dressing 207 

2d 207 

3d 207 

4th 208 

" 5th 210 



BRUNSWICK STEWS, GUMBO, 
SIDE DISHES. 

Apples, fried 231 

" spiced 232 

Bacon fraize 227 

Beef cakes 226 

Beefsteak and potatoes 226 

Breakfast dish 221 

" 2d 222 

Broth, Scotch 216 

Cassa rolls 221 

Calf's head pudding 223 

Cold chicken, devilled 225 

" " with vinegar 225 

Croquettes 217 

2d 217 

3d 218 

" 4th 218 

Chicken croquettes 217 

Croquettes balls 218 

" potato 218 

" sausage 219 

2d 219 

" meat 217 

Crumb pie 224 

Dried apples, peaches, qui uces and 

pears, to stew 231 

Fish and potatoes 226 

Forcemeat balls 219 

Fondee 230 

Gibletpie 2aC 



INDEX, 



521 



PAOB 

Gumbo 213 

" 2d 313 

" 3d 213 

" filet a la Creole 214 

Haggis 225 

Hash 220 

" baked 222 

Hominy, to boil 228 

2d 229 

" croquettes 228 

fried 229 

Hotch potch 216 

Liver pudding 223 

Loaf, meat 216 

^lacaroui 227 

2d 227 

3d 227 

"■ Italian method 227 

Mince, with bread crumbs 219 

" " potatoes 220 

Mushrooms, broiled 230 

to stew 230 

" " fry or broil.. 229 

" and sweetbread pates 229 

Mutton, hashed 215 

2d 215 

3d 215 

Nice pie 2^3 

Pig's head pudding 223 

Potato pie 223 

"2d 223 

Pot pouri 220 

Prunes, stewed 232 

Ragout souse 221 

Rice and egg pates 231 

Sandwiches 222 

" 2d 222 

Squab pie 225 

Side dish 216 

Stew, black 216 

Stew, Brunswick 211 

Stew " 2d 212 

3d.... 212 

" " 4th 212 

Terrapin, mock 221 

Tongue and prunes 231 

Veal pates 214 

Welsh rarebit 231 



EGGS 



A-la-creme . 
Boiled eggs . 



237 

' _ 233 

soft..".'.'.'.'.'.!!!!'.'.'.'.! 3133 

Baked for dinner 237 

Egg cups, breakfast dish 233 

" for breakfast 233 



PAOB 

Egg with toast 236 

Ham and eggs 2:36 

" egg pudding 237 

Omelette 234 

2d. 234 

" 3d 234 

4th 234 

" cheese 235 

' ' German 235 

" ham 235 

" mock 235 

" souffle 235 

Pie, egg 237 

Poached eggs 236 

Rumble " 236 

Scrambled eggs 233 

" " 233 

Stuffed !!!!!!! ! !".*.".!!!!!! 237 



VEGETABLES. 

Artichokes, burr 249 

Asparagus, to cook 238 

" 2d 239 

Beans, lima, to boil 245 

2d 245 

3d 254 

Beets, to boil 239 

Cabbage, with bacon, to boU 251 

" boiled without bacon. . . 251 

fried 252 

" pudding 251 

2d 251 

Cauliflower '. 252 

Celery 240 

Corn fritters 242 

" 2d 243 

" " for breakfast 243 

" green, to boU 241 

" pudding 242 

2d 242 

' ' put in brine 254 

Cucumbers, to dress raw 246 

Cucumbers, to fry 246 

Cymlins, with bacon 240 

to try 241 

fritters 241 

' ' pudding 241 

" or squash to stew 240 

Egg-plant, to bake 249 

" to frj- 249 

" " pudding 249 

" " to stew 248 

Okra 246 

Onions, to bake 239 

"cook 339 

" " dress raw 240 



44 



522 



INDKX. 



PAGF 

Onions, to fi-y ;io9 

P.iisiiips, to cook 250 

" fry 249 

" " stew 24'.) 

Peas, cornfield or black-eye 254 

" dried, to boil 254 

" green, " 2oS 

Pees, kon-feel 253 

Potato chips, Irish 247 

" cakes 247 

Pc tatoes creamed 247 

" Irisii, to boil 24() 

Potato hash 247 

" pudding 247 

" snow 247 

Potatoes, sliced, to fry 247 

" sweet, to boil 248 

'' " to cook inferior. 248 

" " to fry 248 

Radishes 240 

Ropa Viga 244 

Salsify, to cook 250 

" ' "fry 250 

" " stew 250 

" " 250 

Slaw, warm 251 

" 2d. 2.52 

" od 2.52 

Snaps, to boil 240 

Spinacli 252 

Succotash 24(i 

Tomatoes, baked 24o 

" 2d 243 

fried 244 

" omelet 214 

" raw, to dress 215 

"2d 245 

' ' stowed 244 

" 2d 244 

Tomato toast 245 

Turnips , 253 

salad 2.53 

' ' to stew 253 

Yams, to dress 248 

PICKLE AND CATSUPS. 

Apple pickle 294 

iJlackberry pickle 295 

CuVjbage " for present u.se. 2(J2 

" cut 2C,2 

" " chopped 2(io 

Cantaloupe pickle, 3 287, 288 

Composition " 291 

Cherry " 295 

Cbow-chow " 5 282-284 

" " '■ (Leesburg) . . . . 285 



PAQS 

Cucumber pickle 4 200-268 

" boiled 208 

" ripe 2()9 

" " sweet, 2 209 

Dam.son " 2 290,291 

French " 2 292 

Green " 3 204-266 

German " 290 

Honolulu melon pickle 287 

Hyden salad, 5 273-275 

Ingredients for one gallon green 

pickle 258 

Kentucky pickle 202 

Lemon " 2 294 

Mangoes, oil, 3 276 

' ' to green 270 

" stuffing for 00 270 

" peach, 4, 278,279 

'" pepper 279 

Martinas pickle 281, 283 

Mu.skmeion pickle 288 

Onion " 2 293, 294 

Peach " 4 286, 287 

" " spiced 286 

" " sweet 286 

Pear, peach or quince pickle 287 

Plum pickle 289 

Prejiaring pickles 258 

Ragout pickle 291 

Spanish " 293 

Sweet " 287,290 

Tomato " (green) 3 209, 270 

" " (sweet) 3 272 

" " (ripe) 272 

" sauce (green) 3 270, 271 

" marmalade or sauce for 

meats 373 

Vinegar for pickle, 3 256 

" " yellow pickle 257 

Walnut pickle, 4 280, 281 

Watermelon pickle, 4 289 

" " s\veet 288 

Yellow " 7 258-261 

Bay sauce, 2 299 

Caper sauce 302 

Celery vinegar 301 

Gncumlior catsup, 4 297 

Horseradish sauce 3U1 

Mushroom catsup, 4 299, 300 

' ' sauce 300 

Mustard, to mix 303 

" aromatic 303 

Pepper catsup 302 

sauce 301 

" vinegar 302 

'J'omato catsup, 2 295, 2VMj 

Tartan sauce 302 

" (Morcau's) 303 



INDEX. 



523 



Walnut catsup, 3 298 

" leaves, catsup from 29S 



CAKE. 

Almond cake, 2 3-8 

Angels " 311 

bread 323 

Black cake 314, 315 

Brides' cake, 4 309, 310 

Capital " 342 

Civron " 4 327,328 

Cocoanut cake, 6 32ri, 324 

Chocolate " 5 325,320 

" jelly cake 327 

Corn-starch " 313 

Clav " 323 

Cream " 2 340,341 

Currant " 329 

Cup " 3 342 

Custaid " 344 

Cake 34;^ 

' ' with sauce 344 

" that never fails 344 

Delicate cake, 2 3l2 

Delicious " 2 343 

Fruit " 7 310-319 

Fig " 329 

Gold " :<n 

Mrs. Gait's caKc 345 

Jelly for " 2 334, 335 

Jelly " 2 335 

Jelly cake (lemon) 2 335, 330 

" (r.iUcd) 2 336 

" " filling for 337 

Kettle cake 345 

Lady " 2 311, 312 

Lee " (R. E. ) 2 321 

Leighton cake 300 

Lemon " 2 320, 321 

Mountain cake 307 

' ' ash-cake 308 

Merry Christmas cake 312 

Marble cake 337, 339 

" or Bismarck cake 339 

Norfolk " 345 

Naples biscuit 347 

Orange cake, 3 319, 320 

Parson's " 346 

Paund " 7 329,331 

Pineapple " 319 

Risen " 346 

Ro.=e or clouded cake 3:>9 

Rnpjles' " 340 

Silver " 310 

8no\v " 3C8 

" mountain " 307, 



PAGE 

Spice mountain cake 3-10 

Sponge " 2 332 

Sponge cake (confederate) 3^32 

" " (cream ) 333 

" " (butter) 2 331, 332 

" (extra) 333 

" " that never fails 333 

" " roll, 2 334 

Tipsy cakes 347 

Velvet " 347 

White " 2 305 

" " (superior) 305 

" mountain cake, 4 306, 307 

" " ash-cake 308 

" fruit cake, 4 313,314 

Whortleberry 347 

Icing for cakes 349 

Icing, 5 348, 349 

" boiled, 2 348, 349 

" cold 348 

" hot 348, 349 

Ginger bread 350, 351 

Ginger bread, cup cake 351 

" " lightened 351 

" " risen 351 

" " soft 350 

Ginger loaf 350 

Molasses cake, 2 351, 352 

" or black cake 352 

'*' pound cake 352 

Small cakes 353 

Albany cakes 353 

Bonnefcadas 301 

Coliec cakes 357 

Cookies 358 

Cinnamon cakes, 2 357 

Collce " 357 

Cream " 354 

Crullers 359 

Delicate tea cakes, 2 300 

Delicious small cakes 301 

Dimples 302 

Drop cakes 353 

Ginger cakes, 2 3i>2, 303 

" " (drop) 364 

" " (cheap) 3f.3 

" bunns v.. 363 

" snaps, 2 303, 3(>4 

Gloucester cakes 359 

Holmcroft 358 

Jumbles, 3 356 

" (Jackson) 3.56 

" (lemon) 301 

JIacaroons 356 

Margueiites, 3 354, 355 

Mola.sses cakts oiA 

Nothings 358 

Scotch cakes 35? 



524 



INDEX. 



PAGE 

Strawberry cakes 357 

Sugar " 358 

Shrewsbury " 355 

Sweet crackers 353 

Spice nuts 364 

Tea cakes, 2 359, 360 

Tartaric cakes 360 

Wafers, 2 362 



PUDDINGS. 

Apple pudding, 5 376 

Apple charlotte 377 

Apple custard 378 

Apple custard pudding. 377 

Apple meringue, 2 377 

Apple dumplings 373 

Apple roll (baked) 377 

Almond pudding 381 

Amherst " 370 

Arrowroot ' ' 389 

Batter " 308 

Balloons 398 

Bread pudding 390 

BoUed bread pudding, 2 372 

Boiled pudding of acid fruit 371 

" sweetmeat pudding 372 

" molasses " 373 

" pudding, 2 370, 372 

" dumplings, paste for 373 

Cake pudding 387 

Caramel pudding 383 

Citron " 2 378 

Cocoanut " 5 381, 383 

Chocolate " 2 38^!, 383 

Cherry " 371 

Cheesecake pudding 38S 

Cracker " 392 

Cream " 39.5 

Currant " ... 375 

Custard " 390 

Cottage " 396 

Delicious pudding 398 

" hasty pudding 397 

Eve's pudding 374 

Economical pudding 400 

E.Ktra fine " 399 

Fruit " 374,391 

French " 391 

Feather " 397 

Irish potato " 394 

Indian " 399 

JeUyroU 387 

Lemon pudding, 4 380 

Lemon meringue, 2 ._. 381 

Molasses pudding, 3 395, 396 



PiOB 

Marrow pudding 392 

Original '• 2 369,392 

Orange " 4 378,379 

One egg " 398 

Peach dumplings 375 

Penny pudding 400 

Plain " 401 

Plum " 4 365-368 

" " Christmas 368 

" " economical, 2 369 

" English, 367 

" rich 367 

" " simpler kind of... 369 

Poor man's pudding 400 

Puff " 400 

Preserve " 387 

Pudding without milk or eggs •i82 

Queen of puddings, 5 383-.38.5 

Raspberry pudding 375 

Rice " 3 393,394 

Sago " 389,390 

Sippet " 390 

Snow " 3 386,387 

SnowbaU " 396 

Sweet potato " 394, 395 

roU 372 

Suet pudding, 2 3T3 

' ' dumplings 374 

Steam pudding 370 

Superior " 399 

Sweetmeat pudding, 2 388 

Mrs. Spence's " ... 391 

Tapioca " ... 385 

" with apples 386 

Teacup pudding 391 

Texas " 396 

Thickened milk pudding 347 

Transparent " 388, 389 

Troy " 371 

Tyler " 395 

Virginia " 398 

Washington " 297 



PUDDING SAUCES. 

Brandy sauce 402 

Cold " 3 403 

French " 402 

Lemon " 403 

Molasses " 404 

Nice " 402 

Rich " 403 

Sauce for pudding, 3 402, 403 

" for boiled pastry 404 

Wine s.aioe. 3 40(J 



INDEX. 



525 



PASTRY. 

PAGE 

Apple pie, 1, 2, 3 409, 410 

Blackberry pie 410 

CheiTy " 409 

Cream " 1, 2 413 

Currant " 409 

Custard " 413 

Cream tarts 415 

Cheese cakes, almond, 1, 2 415 

" cornstarch 414 

" lemon 414 

Damson pie 408 

Gooseberry pie 410 

Lemon " 1, 2, 3, 4 406 

Lemon cream pie 406 

Lemon tarts 415 

Mince meat, 1, 2, 3, 4 411, 412 

Molasses pie, 1 , 2 413, 414 

Orange pie, 1, 2, 3 407 

Pastry, 1, 2, 3 405 

Puff paste 405 

Peach pie 408 

Peach meringue pie 407 

Potato pie (sliced) 411 

" " (sweet) 411 

Prunfr " 408 

Prune tarts 415 

Rhubarb pie 411 

Soda cracker pic 413 

Silver " 413 

Sugar " 413 

Strawberry shortcake 408 

Washington pie 413 

Whortleberry " 41 

Fritters (Bell) 416 

" (French) 416 

" (made with yeast) 416 

Pancakes (common) 417 

" (quire of paper 417 



JELLIES, BLANC-MANGE, 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE, BAKED 

CUSTARDS, CREAMS, ETC. 

Jelly (calves' feet) 419 

" cream 421 

" crystal 430 

" gelatine, 2 420 

" " without straining . 420 
" " without eggs or 
boiling 421 

Jelly without boiling 421 

" (stock) 419 

Blanc-mange, 4 421 , 422 

" (arrowroot) 428 

" (coffee^ 423 



PiOB 

Blanc-mange, (chocolate) 423 

" (custard) 422 

Charlotte russe, 6 423, 424 

"■ " (strawberry) 424 

Baked custard, 3 425 

Apples (baked) 429 

Apple compote 429 

" float 428 

Apples (nice dessert of) 429 

" (nice plain dessert of) 429 

" (iced) 430 

" (nice preparation of) 429 

Apple snow 428 

Bonny clabber 428 

Cream (Bavarian) 2 426 

" Italian 426 

" Russian. 436 

" Spanish, 3 425,436 

" Tapioca, 2 427 

Float 428 

Lemon froth 427 

Slip 428 

Syllabub 427 

ICE-CREAM. 

Bisque ice-cream 437 

Buttermilk ice-cream 437 

Caramel ice-cream 435 

" '• (Norvell House) 4:35 

Cocoanut " 3 436 

Chocolate " 435, 436 

Gelatine " 436 

Ice-cream, 3 433 

" (vidthout cream) 437 

Lemon ice-cream 433 

Orange " 433 

Peach " 433 

Pineapple " 434 

Strawberry ice-cream 433 

VaniUa " 4.34 

White " 436 

Frozen Ctistards. 

Bisque 438 

Caramel custard 437 

Frozen custard, 2 437, 4.38 

" pudding '438 

Plumbiere 438 

Plum pudding glace 43S 

8he7-bet 

Cream sherbet 43S 

Lemon " 4 439 

Orange " 430 



526 



INDEX. 



Water Ices. 

PAGE 

Citron ice. - 441 

Gelatine ice 441 

Orange " 2 440 

Pineapple ice, 3 440, 441 

Ka-spbeity " 441 

Watermelon ice 441 

Fruit Dessert*. 

Ambrosia, 2 442 

Canteleupes 443 

Peaches and cream 442 

Pineapple 443 

Strawberries 443 

Watermelons 442 

PRESERVES AND FRUIT 

JELLIES. 

Apples (preserved for winter use). 450 

Apple mange 4.50 

*' preserves (crab) 450 

Cherry " 451 

Candied fruit 454 

Damson preserves 451 

Fig " 4.52 

Fox grape " 451 

Fruit (putting up) 45o 

Lemon preserves 448 

" " (sliced) 447 

' ' marmalade 448 

" conserves 454 

Muskmelon preserves (ripe) 44(5 

Orange " 44(> 

" marmalade, 2 447 

" conserves 454 

Peach preserves, 2 448, 440 

" marmalade 449 

" (brandy) 3 449, 4.50 

" conserves 454 

Pear preserves 450 

Pmeapple preserves 440 

Quince jam 451 

Raspberry jam 452 

Sweetmeat preserves 444 

Strawberry " 452 

" jam 452 

Syrup (golden) 4.54 

Tomato preserves 45o 

" sweetmeats 45.") 

Watermelon marmalade 445 

" or muskmelon pre- 
serves 445 

Apple jelly, 3 455, 450 

" " (crab) 4.50 

Blackberry jelly 4.54 

Currant " 455 

" " (witliout cooking). 454 



PAGH 

Cranberry jelly 455 

Grape " 4-57 

Green grape jelly 457 

Orange ' ' 45(J 

Jelly oranges 4.57 

Quince jelly 450 

Tomato 458 

CONFECTIONERY. 

Almond macaroons 460 

Caramels, 2 459 

" (chocolate) 400 

Cocoanut balls 400 

" caramels, 2 400 

" drops 400 

Cream candy 459 

Cream chocolate 400 

Nut candy 458 

Molasses candy 459 

Sugar " 2 46S 

' ' kisses 458 

WINE. 

Blackberry wine, 4 462, 463 

Cider " 467 

Cherry " 467 

Currant " 3 466 

Gooseberry " 466 

Grape Wine, 3 404 

" (Catawba) 464, 465 

" (wild black) 4r>5 

" '' (native) 465 

Fox grape wine 40.0 

Orange " 407 

Strawberry " 407 

Tomato " 407 

Apple toddy, 2 468, 409 

Beer (cream) 474 

" (ginger) 475 

' ' (lemon) 47.5 

' ' (small) 475 

" (summer) 474 

Blackberry cordial, 3 470 

Cherry " 471 

Crab cider 475 

Cider (mulled) 475 

Dewberry cordial, 2 470, 471 

Eggnog 408 

Lemon vinegar 474 

' ' or orange syrup 474 

Mint cordial 472 

Orgeat 474 

Raspberry acid 473 

" vinegar, 3 473 

Regent punch 409 

Roman punch 469, 47C 

Rum " 46f 



INDKX. 



527 



PAGE 

Strawberry acid, 2 47"3 

" 'jordial 471 

' ' vinegar 472 

Tea punch 46t) 

THE SICK-ROOM DIET AND 
REMEDIES FOR THE SICK. 

Aromatic vinegar 483 

Arrowroot, 2 479, 480 

Asthma, sore-throat and cough, 

remedy for 491 

Beef essence 4S1 

" tea 481 

Boils 4'.»o 

" salve for 4'.)3 

Bone felon 49:3 

Blisters, dressing for 4'X> 

Breakfast for an invalid 4S0 

Breast salve 4S7 

Burns and scalds 4SS 

Carolina small hominy 4S3 

Carrot salve for blisters 492 

Cold in the head, cure for, 2 490 

Colici^cnre for 486 

" cramp, cure for 4S6 

Corns, remedy for 493 

Coughs, remedies for 490 

Chalk mixture for infants arid 

young children 489 

Chicken essence 481 

jelly 4S2 

'' cholera 488 

Chilblains 48t3 

Chill pills 489 

Cuts 48G 

Cracked vi^heat 480 

Croup, good treatment for 492 

Diarrhosa, remedy for 489 

Dysentery " " 4*^9 

Earache " " 487 

Inflamed eyes, remedy for 487 

Epilepsy " '' 48(5 

Food for sick infants 480 

Flames, to extinguish clothing in. 49:3 

Jaundice, remedj' for 491 

Jamaica ginger ( Brown's) 484 

Lime-water 4S4 

Liniment fa good) 492 

" for rheumatism 492 

' ' for recent burns 489 

Mashed finger 488 

Milk punch 481 

Mustard 484 

' ' leaves 485 

Nourishing way to prepare-chicken, 
squirrel, or beef for the sick , 4S2 



PAfiB 

Ocean salt 48r) 

Panada 483 

Prickly heat, remedy for 48S 

Poison oak " " "2 491 

Poisons, antidotes to 494r-49(5 

Acids 494 

Alkalies 494 

Arsenic 494 

Carbolic acid 494 

Chloral 494 

Chloroform 495 

Copper 495 

Corrosive sublin.ate 495 

Gases 495 

Glass, in powder 495 

Iodine 49.5 

Lead 495 

Nitrate of silver 495 

Opium 495 

Phosphorus 495 

Prussic acid 495 

Strychnine 496 

Tartar emetic 496 

Venomous bites of rabid dogs and 

serpents 496 

Quinine, to take without tasting. . 493 

Racahaut 480 

Seamoss farina 480 

Seltzer aperient 484 

Soda mint 484 

Sore throat, remedy for, o. .. .4><5, 486 

Sick-room 470, 496 

Scarlet fever, preventive to, 2, 487, 488 

Snake bites 488 

Toast, drs' 482 

" milk 483 

" scalded 4S3 

Toothache drops 487 

Thieves' vinegar 483 

Weak back, remedy for 494 

Wine whey 480 

Whooping-cough, remedy for.... 490 



HOUSE-CLEANING. 

Ants and bugs, to destroy 503 

Bedbugs " " 503 

' ' poison 503 

Brasses, to clean 501 

Carpets, to wash 499 

'' to remove ink from 500 

Cement for rubber and glass .503 

Egg-beater 502 

Egg stains, to remove from silver 

spoons 501 

Floors to oil 499 

" tc iyc 499 



528 



INDEX. 



PAGE 

Furniture to clean 500 

" unvarnished, to clean . . 500 

" polish, 2 500, 501 

House-clraning (directions for)496-498 

Kn'ves and tins, to clean 503 

' ' to remove rust from 502 

" to whiten handles of 502 

Mosquitoes 504 

Marble slabs, to clean 500 

Oil-cloth, to wash, 2 499 

Paint, to clean 499 

Rats 504 

Red ants, remedy for 503 

Sapolio for kitchen use 502 

Silver, to clean, 2 501 

Shading glass, mixture for 50!) 

Soap, concentrated lye 504 

Wall paper, to remove grease 

from 500 

Washing mixture 504 

Whitewash, outdoor 498 

" indoor 498 



RECIPES FOR RESTORING OLD 
CLOTHES, SETTING COLORS, 
REMOVING STAINS, ETC. 



Black cashmere, to wash 

Black crape veils, to renew 

Black silk, to renew old 

" " to freshen old 

Blue calicoes, to keep bright and 

fresh 

Colors, to set 

Colors, to restore 

Cloth, to remove spots from 

Cloth, soap for removing grease 

from 

Clothes to clean 



505 
506 
506 
506 



507 
507 
507 
505 

505 

505 



r40B 

Fruit stains, to remove 507 

" or ink stains, to remove 507 

Iron rust, to remove 508 

Mildew, " " 507 

" Labaraque solution for. . . . 507 

Velvet, to restore the pile of. 506 



MISCELLANEOUS RECIPES. 

Almond bandoline 514 

Ammonia 508 

Borax 509 

Bottle wax 510 

Blood stains, to remove 514 

Camphor ice 513 

" salve 512 

Cold cream 51 1 

Chaps, lotion for 511 

Dandruff, to remove 514 

Fertilizer for strawberries 511 

Grafting wax 510 

Hair-oil, 3 513 

" dye, 2 513 

" tonic .513 

" restorative 513 

" to clean 514 

" brushes, to clean 514 

Herbs, to dry 511 

Ink (black) 509 

" (red) .509 

Liquid glue 510 

" blacking 510 

Lip salve (red) 511 

Rose bandoline 514 

Shoe blacking 510 

Shampoo liquor 513 

Sozodont 512 

Tooth powder 512 

" " charcoal 513 



THE END. 



^ .vj results from the foregoing Receipts 
do your Cooking on 

i HE CHAMPION MONITOR. 

IT IS MADE IN SIZES TO SUIT ALL; 

WITH OK WITHOUT EESERVOIRS (HIGH OR LOW), 

AND SIX-HOLE STOVE. 



Prices I^angincr from J^IO to #6S. 




IRST- CLASS in every respect". Oven large and well made, thor- 
' \; protected and furnished with every convenience. All parts 
the fire made extra heavy and durable. 

ellent Bakers and Economical in Fuel. 

lot- obtainable at your dealers, send for full information to the 

TS, 

JVC. I^ESOK. &c CO. 

V CI3VCIIV1VATI, O. 



Health! Comfort! Elegance! 



DR.SCOTrS 



# 




POSITIVELY secured with this beau- 
tiful invention. By a happy thought 
Dr. Scott, of London, the inventor of the 
celebrated Electric Brushes, has adapted 
Electro-Magnetism to Ladies' Corsets, 
thus bringing this wonderful curative 
agency within the reach of every lady. 
They should be adopted at once by those 
suffering from any bodily ailment; and 
she who wishes to ward off Disease, 
preserve her |jf«»od health, and r«'- 
taiii and iiuprove the elegance of 
her figure, skould give them an 
immediate trial. It has been found 
that MAGNETIC 1 KE.ATMENT makes the 
niuscles and tissues nifire plastic and 
yielding, and it is argued from this that 
Ladies who wear these Corsets will have no 
difficulty in moulding the figure to any de- 
sired form without tight lacing. A tenden- 
cy to extreme fatness or leanness is a 
disease which, in most cases, these ar- 
ticles will be found to cure. In appear- 
ance they do not differ from the usual 
corsets, being made of the same materials 
and shape. See cut.) They are worn 
the same, and fit the same, but give a 
more graceful figure. 



The Secretary of the Pall Mall Elec- 
tric Association of London "earnestly" 
"recommends all Ladies suffering" 
"from any bodily ailment to adopt" 
"these Corsets without delay. They" 
"perform astonishing cures and in-" 
"vigorate every part of the system." 

In place of the ordinary steel busks in 
fmnt, and a rib or two at the back. Dr. 
Sciui inserts steel niagiietods which 
are exactly the same size, shape, length, 
breadth, and tliickness as the usual steel 
busk or rib. By this means he is able to 
bring the magnetic power into constant 
contact with all the vital organs, and yet 
preserve that symm'etry and lightness so 
desirable in a good corset. It is affirmed 
by professional men that there is hardly 
a disease which Electricity and Magnet- 
ism will not benefit or cure. 

Dr. Win. A. Hammond, of Njew 
York, late Surgeon-Genera! of the lf..S., 
an eminent authority, publishes almost 
miraculous cures made by him, and a!f 
mcdical men daily practice the same. 
Ask your own physician. The cut gives 
a fair r1;prcsentation of lb' < orset, which should be worn daily in place of the ordin.ary one, 
ind will always do good, never h.irin. There is no shock or sensation whatever felt in wear- 
ing them, while benefit quickly follows. Being made with better material and workmanship 
•han any corset sold, they will outwear three of those commonly used. In ordering be r»re- 
/ul to send e.\act naist inpasuro, and mention this puhlicatlon. They are all of the sanie 
quality, differing only in size. The material is white, fine in texture, be.Tiitifully embroid- 
ered and trimmed. We will send it on trial, postpaid, on receipt of $3, which will be returned 
if not as represented. Inclose lo cts. extra and we guarantee safe delivery. We will send it 
by express, C.O.D. at your expense, with privilege of examination— but expressage adds con- 
siderably to your cost. Or request your nearest Dry Goods or Fancy Store to obtain one for 
you, antl be sure Dr. Scott's name is <in the corset. Remittances should be madp payable to 
CrEO. A. SCOTT, 84'4 IJroadvvay, New Vork. They can be made in Checks, Drafts, 
^ost-oftice Orders, Currency, or Stamps. Liberal Discount to the Trade. Agents 
M;:'i*.ed in rvcrv T.>>'.m. i:«- s.nd for circular of Dr. Scott's Eubctric Hair Brush. 



Whether you live 

"in Colorado or Pennsylva-" 

nia, you can, with the utmost 

'satisfaction, purchase the newest 

'goods for the lowest city prices at the 



GRAND DEPOT, 

The Largest 

DRY GOODS 

AND 

Outfitting House of 




PHILADELPHIA, 

"JoFn 
wanamaker. 



WEST>#£AST 



^Only the exact goods 
^even then, if not as ex- 
^exchanged, or the 
Samples or prices, 
ordering, mailed 
i#'^ceipt of postal card 
^desired, and no 
chase if prices are 




ordered are sent, and] 
pected, are willingly i 
money refunded, 
with directions for^^^ 
postpaid upon re-^ 
specifying what is^ 
obligation to pur-_, 
not satisfactory. 



Adaress MAIL DEPARTMENT 

. ForSamples and Supplies, 



^^^ 



NBSTLE's Milk food 




Ik the M:0ST I*OPXJL-Vtl pr-OOI) the World Over for 

INFANTS AND INVALIDS. 

♦ 

IT contains only Milk, "Wheattm Bread Orust, mid Catic Sugar, and requires 
ONLY WATER to prepare it for, u-c, thus r-iiinxiiiij; all the danger of cow's 
milk, so /requently impure, diseased, aud sour. 

FOR INFANTS 

It makes tirm, flosh and mus.-le, tougli bcin', kn-ps the IimwoIs well regulated, 
the blood in a lii'alihy condiliuii, and aurcos with a inrijir jicrcentage than 
any other artifieial food. 

F3li INVALIDS 

It is largely used in Nkkvoi's 1)isi;asks. < ia.-tndgiiK Chronic Catarrh, and 
IMci'j- iif tl)i' Stojnacli, liilhiiiinuitiiiii ul' the I)j.)W(d>, I ndi!j,i'>ti(>n and Dyspep- 
sia, Dysentery and Diarrhrti. Typhoid aud other IVncis. ' Kxpt-rience has 
shown that notliing will digest more easily, kc»|) up ihe strength more 
uniforndy, worry, the stomach less, and permit it to recover its normal tone 
more quickly than this Jbood. If !s nficu ritaiiicd on iJte slomach when 6very 
thiihj t'Isr jK i-tjrried. \<k y(.\ir pliy,~i<iaii aluMit it, or scjid for a pamphlet 
giving full details. 

NESTLES CONDENSED SWISS MILK 

• • 

8!iould lit' on I'vcry l)r('akfast-lal>le in the land. We guai'iuUee it to be free 
from all adulteration, aiul the r-iehesf milk in the ni.nrket. It gi\i's a richness 
and smoothness to coftee almost ecjual to pure cream. Those who have used 
the Milk Food will enjoy the Condensed Milkjiilso, and know it can be relied 
upon. For sale by all llrst-class Di'uggists and Grocers. 

THOMAS LEEMINU& CO. * 

ZDSTo. 18 CoLXiEO-E IPl^ce, JsTj^aat IToi^-k- City, 
SOLE AGENTS FOR HENRI NESTLE, VEVEY, SWITZERLAND. 



■inotices of the press. 



Virginia is ikj* only the mother of presidents, but is the parent of good living. Her 
omen of all ranks ai-e famous as housekeepers.— iV. 0. Picaijuni. 

The book is edited by the granddaughter of Patrick Henry, and herself one of the 
tmous housekee 'crs of Virginia. We notice many historical names in the list of contrib- 
ton<. — Western {Ky.) Ciliun. 

If two hundrv i and fifty matrons of Virginia can not teach their sisters in other states 
)niething these s'Sters don't know about housekeeping, then corn bread is a failure, and 
ady Martha Washington a free and independent American vayih.—Chiaigo Inter-Ocean. 

The author places within reach of all American housekeepers the^excellent domestic 
rinciples and practices which have long distinguished the homes of the "Old Dominion." 
■Chirinnati (0.) Commercial. 

'J'HEsE recipes w ;i\' furnished the author by the best housekeepers of Virginia, and are 
le garnered expcri nee of the last century.— 7-;/)u-/(6((rp Virginian. 

It is destined tc create a sensation among housekeepers all over the Union. It fairly 
takes one's mouth water to read over the recipes.— Parw {Ky.) True Kentuckian. 

It places within the reach of everj- American housekeeper the principles and practices 
t tlie homes of the commonwealth. Many of the recipes have been handed down from 
lother to daughter r four or five generations, and have successfully withstood the rivalry 
E modern dishes.— oston {Moi^i.) Transcript. 

This book must levitably sell well, not only in Virginia, but wherever are found any 
E the strayed -oft' «Iiildren of the dear old mother of presidents.— Louisville Courier- 
oumal. 

Nil more valuable contribution has ever been made to the domestic literature of 
luvrirn.—LyncMnirg Press. 

It is the compilation of valuable recipes, furnished by nearly three hundred famous 
ousewives in the " Old Domimoii."— Memphis Appeal. 

It places within the reach of every American housekeeper the principles and practices 
E the famous Virginia homes, a system justly pronounced by the throngs of admirers who 
ave gathered from all quarters of the Union, around the generous boards of Virginia's 
lustrious sons, as the very pekfection of domestic xrt.—JS'cw Orlea7u-i Home Journal. 

Of all the arts known to the race, trie art of housekeeping is beyond dispute most 
seful, and in the practice of this art Virginians have always justly claimed preeminence 
I er the rest of mankind. — liichmond ( Va.) Despatch. 

Tills is a valuable book, setting forth the most admirable system of good living known 
1 our co\intry. — Memphis Ledger. 

They know how to cook more things than corn cake in Virginia, and this book gives 
le full scope of old Virginia cookery.— Si. Loais licpuhli<-an. 

It contains the essence and mysteries of " Old Virginia " housewifery. Virginia cook- 
ig has always been famous. If she is the mother of presidents, she is etiually the home of 
5od living.— Editorii'l Notice in Cincinnati Commercial. 

From two hundred and fifty of Virginia's Ijcst housekeepers this volume has been 
rcpared, and in it !> found tue condensed w^:^Ix..M of Virginia wojien, who have 

UENISHED brains TO i'lUOINIA STATESMEN AND WARRIORS. — Richmond [Va.) JJtcp'ilrh. 



