111! II I I II ■' 



» ■ ■ 

. ■■! » ■■ i— —— — — — 



oommmJjiMmKKKmKtKBBB/iBBBI^BBfa^ •» i 




ss» 



= 






mmmou 

ML 




—» ■ « ■ «* . . . I -_-^...-.... ■■■■■, .- l .- .-t. 

■MMMMMHIHMMVn 



S5BS 



Ml 



T X 




OF PRACTICAL HOUSEKEEPING, 






THE 



tMi Treasure 



COMPILED FROM RECEIPTS GATHERED FROM 




"Creature Comforts of the Inner Man." 
i, 



Entered according to Act of Congress in the year 1873, by 

LAURA A. KIMBALL, 
In the office of the Librarian of Congress at Washington 



/ SIEMOlSr & BRO., 

V FOEST W^-"Z1TE, I3STX). 

■^V- 1880 




(LIQUID.) 

For Dyspepsia, Mental and Physical Exhaustion, Nervousness, 
Diminished Urinary Difficulties, etc. 

Prepared according to the directions of Prof. Horsford, of Cam- 
bridge, Mass. 

There seems to be no difference of opinion in high medical au- 
thority, of the value of phosphoric acid, and no preparation has 
ever been offered to the public which seems to so happily meet the 
general want as this. 

It is not nauseous, but agreeable to the taste. 

No danger can attend its use. 

Its actions will harmonize with such stimulants as are necessary 
to take. 

It makes a delicious drink with water and sugar only. 

Prices reasonable. Pamphlet giving further particulars mailed 
free on application to manufacturers. 

Physicians desiring to test it will be furnished a bottle free of 
expense, except express charges. 

Manufactured by the Rumford Chemical Works, Providence, 
R. I. 



INDEX 



Page. 

Bread, ------ - 5 

Griddle Cakes, - - - 12 

Graham Department, - - - 14 

Remarks on Fish and Meats, - 18 

Poultry and Game, - - - - 21 

Fish, - - 21 

Vegetable, - - 25 

Made Dishes, • - 32 

Soups, - - - 4? 

Sauces for Meat or Fish, - - - 47 

Pies, • - - 48 

Puddings, - - 56 

Custards, Creams and Varieties, - - - - 69 

Ice Cream, ______ -6 

Sweet Dishes, - - - . . - 78 

Tables of Weights and Measures, 81 

Cakes, ------ 82 

Icing for Cakes, - - - . - 82 

Preserves and Jellies - - - - -114 

Drinks, - - - - - - 121 

Pickles, - - - - - -126 

Dishes for the Sick, - - - - - 137 

A few Common Remedies for Sickness, - 142 

A list of Plain Dinners and Breakfasts, - _ 143 
Sundries, ______ j^- 

Hints that have been given by Experienced Housekeepers, 160 




I 

ORSFORB'S 



SELF-RAISING 



1 

The Healthful and Nutritious, 

BAKING POWDER. 

Invented by Prof. E. N. Horsford, cf Cambridge, Massachusetts. 

It is better and healthier than ordinary Baking Powder, Cream 
Tartar or Yeast. 

The cost of raising Bread, Biscuit, etc., with it is only about half 
as much as by ordinary Baking Powder, and the result is much 
better. 

It restores the nutrious elements which are taken from the flour 
in bolting. No ordinary Baking Powder or anything else used for 
raising bread does this. 

Universally used and recommended by prominent Physicians. 

Put up in packages containing n ounces, just enough for 25 
pounds of flour. 

A sample sufficient for one quart of flour sent post paid on 
receipt of a three cent stamp. For 35 cents, in stamps or cur- 
rency, we will send post paid, a regular package sufficient for 25 
pounds of flour. 

RUMFORD CHEMICAL WORKS, 

PROVIDENCE, R. I. 



BREAD 




1/3-1 

[(^ READ should be mixed as soft as it can be handled. It 
will rise sooner and be lighter, more digestible and keep 
fresh longer. Let it rise in a moderately warm place and away from 
the cold. If it becomes sour, add a little soda or saleratus, dissolved 
in hot water, and work it in well. Is better if you can get along 
without it, however. Knead well and faithfully. Have a moderate 
oven with a steady fire. A tin box is best to keep it in. When it 
is taken out of the oven hot do not set it flat on the table, as it 
acquires a bad taste from the wood if you do. Set it on the end 
until cool. If it has a thick, hard crust, first wrap it with a wet 
cloth and put a dry one over it, and let it sweat until it becomes 
soft. In summer, bread should be mixed with cold water; in damp 
weather, the water should be tepid, and in cold weather quite warm. 
If the yeast is new, a smaller quantity will make the bread rise. 

Directions for Mixing : 

The day previous to baking the bread, (in winter in the morning, 
summer at noon,) boil four potatoes soft, pour off the water, mash 
through a colander, add one pint of water; when lukewarm, add 
about a quart of flour and one pint of yeast. Beat until smooth. 
Cover and set in a warm, sheltered place to rise. Beat down occa 
sionally, say once in half an hour, especially at bedtime. Early in 
the morning add, one pint of water (summer, cold ; winter, hike- 
warm,) and one quart of flour. Beat smooth and set to rise. When 
risen, take flour sufficient for four small loaves, work well, shoving 
in the thumb and pounding with the fist. Work lor thirty minutes, 
then cover and set to rise. In about one and a half hours it will 
be ready to work again, which do quite lightly, and give about 
fifteen or twenty minutes more for rising. Make it into loaves and 
set it to rise until light. Small loaves will bake in about one-half 
of an hour. — Mrs. J^esse L. Williams. 
i 



6 THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 

POTATO YEAST TO KEEP A YEAP. 

Nine pints of water, six good sized potatoes, one tea cup of white 
sugar, one of salt, one of hops — pressed down full — and one of 
flour; peel the potatoes, tie the hops in a small bag, and with the 
cup of salt, boil in the nine pints of water until the potatoes are 
cooked ; then take them out and mash fine; put the sugar and flour 
with them, then pour on the hop water, being careful to have the 
flour without lumps first ; then place the whole again over the fire 
and boil five or ten minutes, stirring all the while to prevent scorch- 
ing, as that would spoil it ; pour into a stone jar. and when blood 
warm, add a pint of yeast. Keep warm until raised ; then stir in a 
large spoonful of ground ginger, (this prevents mold), keep in a 
cool dry place. One teacupful is sufficient for three or four good 
sized loaves of bread. Always stir in the yeast thoroughly before 
taking out for use. Make your sponge for bread in the usual way, 
using a little potato in it, and be sure never to allow it to become 
chilled, as this yeast requires to be kept warm while raising. Always 
reserve a pint of the yeast to start with. — Mrs. Charles D. Bond 
and Mrs. Stephen Bond. 

POTATO YEAST. 

Boil potatoes soft, mash them and add as much water as will make 
them of the consistency of common yeast. While the potatoes are 
warm, put in one-half teacup of molasses and two tablespoons of 
yeast. Let it stand near the fire till done fermenting, when it will 
be fit for use. 

POTATO YEAST. 

Boil twelve large potatoes which have been peeled, in one gallon 
of water, till soft, with one large handful of hops, one cup of sugar, 
and one of salt. When cool, add one dried yeast cake or one cup 
of soft yeast. One cup of this will raise three loaves ot bread. 
— Mrs. O. B. Lawrence. 

HOP YEAST. 

Boil a handful of hups in two quarts of water ; strain and pour 
the liquor, hot, upon one-half teacup of wheat flour. When about 
lukewarm add a teacup of yeast, Let it ferment; it can then be 
bottled and is ready for use. 



THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 



BROWN BREAD. 



Three cups of corn meal, two of rye meal, one of molasses, little 
more than one-half teaspoonful soda and a little salt. Mix soft. 
Steam from two to three hours, then set in the oven to drv off. 
Mrs. Willjoslyn. 

BROWN BREAD. 

One pint sifted Indian meal, one of either rye, Graham or fine 
flour, one pint of sour milk, one-half cup of molasses, and one good 
teaspoonful of soda. Steam two and bake in a moderate oven one- 
half hour. — Mrs. Nellie Matoon. 

BO ST OX BROWN BREAD. 

One quart of nice yellow corn meal, one of flour, either rye or 
fine, one cup Orleans molasses, one large teaspoonful soda, one 
quart of lukewarm water. Can be baked as soon as mixed and 
does not hurt it to stand a little while. Steam from two to three 
hours; then bake one-half hour in an oven with moderate heat. Is 
not eaten when warm, is nicer steamed before placing upon the 
table. Bake in an earthen crock. — Mrs. B. H. Kimball. 

BREAKFAST ROLLS— Splendid. 

Three pints of flour, one large tablespoonful of butter ; rub well 
through one pint of milk, boiled; let it cool; then mix with the 
flour one tablespoonful of sugar, a little salt one teacup of bakers' 
yeast ; beat well with a knife, let it stand till morning ; beat again 
with a knife ; flour the board ; roll out and cut with a cutter; fold 
over with a small piece of butter; let them rise and bake quickly. 
—Mrs. N. B. Young. 

FRENCH ROLLS. 

One quart of warm sweet milk, one tablespoonful of butter, one 
egg, take flour enough to make a thick sponge, and one-half teacup 
of hop yeast. When light, add flour enough to niake a soft dough; 
let it rise ; then roll out and cut with a biscuit cutter; rise again and 
just before putting them in the oven, cut deeply across with a 
knife. Bake quickly — Mrs. John Cochrane. 



8 THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 

PARKER HOUSE ROLLS. 

Two quarts of flour, one pint of milk, two tahlespoonfuls of but- 
ter, two of sugar, one cup of yeast and a little salt. Put the flour 
into a large bowl and make a hole in the middle. Scald the milk ; 
put the butter into it, then add the other ingredients. When cool 
pour it into the hole in the flour. Let it stand without stirring for 
six or fight hours. Then knead and let it rise again ; then make 
the rolls and let them rise again. To make the rolls, cut out with 
a tumbler, butter the to]) and then turn it over and fold like an om- 
elet. — Mrs. John Hough, Mary Hanks and Emma Hardy. 

GERJ\MX PUFFS- 

One pint of milk, one pound of flour, piece of butter the size of 
a wnlnut. four eggs and a little salt. Separate the eggs; beat the 
yolks till thick, warm the milk and add the butter ; when cool stir 
in the volks ; put in the Hour by degrees ; whisk the whites and stir 
in lightly. Hake one-halfan hour in buttered cups. To be eaten 
with cream and sugar or a very rich sauce. — Mrs. C. M. Dawson. 

BUNKS. 

Two cups of milk, one-half of sugar, one-half of yeast, and flour 
enough to make a thin batter. Let it rise over night-; then add one 
half cup of sugar, one-half of butter, one-half teaspoonful of soda, 
essence of lemon, and currants if wished. Make thin as possible 
and handle. Roll out about an inch thick; cut in cakes; then rise 
again before baking. If, when yon cut and put them into the pan 
you rub the sides with melted butter, they will bake apart nicely. 
Wash the top with the white of an egg and sugar. — Mrs. Etta 
Jos/yn. "Mtgnon." 

KEXTUCK Y BISCUIT- -Very Nice. 

Three desertspoonfuls o( lard or butter, one of salt, one pint of 
water, and four and a half pints of flour. Pound for one hour, till 
they become very light. Cut about one inch thick. Bake in an 
oven as hot as for bread from twenty to twenty-five minutes. — Mrs. 
Sol. D. Bash. 



IHK HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 9 

WHORTLEBERR Y BREAD. 

Onequart of Hour, two teaspoonfuls of cream tartar, one-half cup 
of sugar, three-quarters quarts of berries, one teaspoonful of soda 
dissolved in milk, ( if water put a little butter in,) and flour enough 
to make as stiff as cream tartar biscuits. — Sadie -Kimball. 

BISCUIT. 

'lake one quart of light flour, (loosely put in) one measure each 
of the acid and soda, (or two heaping teaspoonfids acid and one 
moderately heaping teaspoonful soda. | of Horsford's Bread Prepar- 
ation, one teaspoonful salt, about a pint of water ; shape with a 
spoon and the floured hand. Is very nice. — L. K. 

* GEMS. 

One pint sweet milk, one egg, well beaten, and a little salt. Mix 
them as fritters. Hake quick in small moulds. Serve hot. rolled 
in napkins. — Mrs JV. B. Young. Mrs. Will Stockbridge. 

GEMS. 

One pint flour, one teaspoonful of baking powder, a little salt, and 
one tablespoonful of part butter and lard; mix soft, with milk or 
water. Have the "gem pans" hot, greased well, and bake immedi- 
ately in a hot oven. — Mrs. J. B. Morse. 

CORN GEMS. 

One pint each of corn meal and water, one egg, one teaspoonful 
of baking powder and a little salt. — Mrs. /. B. Morse. 

MUFF I MS. 

One quart milk, two eggs, and one tablespoonful of butter. 
Make stiff and put in a spoonful of good yeast. Mix at night ; 
bake in the morning. — Mrs. Laura Hyde, Laura K. 

MUFFJXS MIXED WITH WATER. 

Two eggs, four tablespoonfuls of sugar, two heaping tablespoon- 
fuls of melted butter, three teaspoonfuls of baking powder, one 
quart of flour, and water enough to make as stiff as sponge cake. 
Bake in gem pans, heated and greased well, or muffin rings. — 
Mollie Kimball. 



IO THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 

WAFFLES. 

One quart of sour cream, four eggs, one-half teaspoonful of soda 
and flour enough to be as thick as batter cakes. Sour milk can be 
used if cream is scarce by putting in a piece of butter the size of an 
egg. — Mrs. G. C. Hewes. 

WAFFLES. 

One quart of milk, one of flour, four eggs beaten separately, 
three tabiespoonfuls of butter and one teaspoonful of baking powder. 
—Mrs, Dr. Woodworth. 

WAFFLES* 

One quart sour milk, four eggs, butter the size of an egg, a level 
teaspoonful of soda, and a little salt. Beat the yolk of the eggs 
and butter together; then add milk and salt; then flour sufficient for 
a stiff batter; dissolve the soda in a little water and add; stir in 
gently the well beaten whites; pour in the hot side of the iron and 
turn on to the other side. — Mrs. Jesse L. Williams. 

POP OVERS. 

Two cups of milk, two of flour, four eggs and a small piece of 
butter. Make the consistency of griddle cakes. Bake in a quick 
oven, twenty minutes, in cups or gem pans previously heated. — 
Mrs. Henry Little. 

SODA BISCUIT. 

One pint sweet milk, one quart of flour, two teaspoonfuls cream 
tartar, one of soda, salt and a little shortening. 

BREAKFAST CAKES. 

Two cups of flour, one of corn meal, two of sweet milk, one-half 
sugar, two eggs well beaten, and two teaspoonfuls of baking powder. 
Bake in muffin rings or gem pans; a large tablespoonful in each de- 
partment. — Mrs. Will Stockbridge. 



THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. II 

BREAKFAST JOHNNY CAKE. 

Mix overnight, eight tablespoonfuls of fine yellow Indian meal 
with two of wheat flour, one of corn starch, a teaspoonful of salt, 
and water enough to wet thoroughly, (milk if you have it.) In the 
morning add'one egg, one teaspoonful of soda, one tablespoonful 
of sugar, and one of melted butter. Beat well and bake immedi- 
ately in a hot oven. — Laura K. 

JOHNNY CAKE. 

One cup of flour, two and a half of corn meal, one of molasses, 
one of sweet milk, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder dissolved in 
the milk, and a little salt. Rake one hour in a sponge cake pan. — 
Lizzie Walters. 

JOHNNY CAKE. 

Four eggs, two teacups of buttermilk, two of sweet milk, one of 
sour cream, two teaspoonfuls of soda, and if the buttermilk is 
very sour, a little more ; one teaspoonful of salt, two tablespoon- 
fuls of sugar, one large cup of flour, and the rest meal. Stir not 
very thick. Bake three-quarters of an hour. — Sadie K. 

STEAMED JOHNNY CAKE. 

Two eggs, three-quarter cup of molasses, one pint of sour milk, 
one teaspoonful of soda, and corn meal enough for a stiff batter. 
Steam one and a half hours. — Mrs. Dr. Woodworth . 

ST. CHARLES CORN BREAD. 

One pint of corn meal, one of sour milk, one teaspoonful of 
soda, lard size of an egg, two eggs, two tablespoonfuls of molasses, 
and a little salt. — Mrs. Jesse L. Williams. 

SIR A JVBERRY SHORT CAKE. 

Mix three large teaspoonfuls of baking powder among three pints 
of flour, add one-half teacup of butter, a little salt, and one pint of 
milk. Mix thoroughly and quickly; roll one inch in thickness, and 
bake twenty minutes in a quick oven. Then take a quart or more 
of strawberries, and sweeten to taste. When the short cake is done 
divide it into three layers, butter them and spread the berries be- 
tween. Eat while warm. — Mrs. B. H. Kimball. 



12 THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 

OLD FASHIONED SHORT CAKE. 

One quart of buttermilk, large tablespoonful of melted lard, a 
little salt, and flour enough to rollout about one-half an inch thick, 
cut into diamonds and bake quickly. — Mrs. S. B. 



GRIDDLE CAKES. 



FLOUR CAKES. 

One pint of sour milk or buttermilk, a cup of shortning, a little 
salt, two eggs, a heaping teaspoonful of soda, and flour enough to 
make a soft batter. If mixed at night, and soda added in the 
morning, f are much nicer. Can be cooked, however, as soon as 
made. — Mrs. Ann Kimball. 

CORK MEAL CAKES. 

One pint sour milk or buttermilk, two eggs, heaping teaspoonful 
of soda, using one-third flour, two-thirds corn meal — enough to 
make a stiff batter. Mix at night and add the soda in the morning. 
— Mrs. Ann Kimball. 

GREEK CORK CAKES, 

Grate twelve ears of green corn, add two teacups of sour milk, 
a teaspoonful of soda, one of salt, two eggs, and flour enough for a 
batter. — Mrs. S. B. 

RICE CAKES. 

Mix one pint of rice boiled soft, with a pint of milk, a teaspoon- 
ful of salt, three eggs beaten to a froth, and stir in rice or wheat 
flour till of the right consistency to fry. If preferred, add two 
more eggs and more flour, and bake into cakes. — Mrs. Cynthia 
Hill. 



THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 1 3 

BREAD CAKES. 

Soak some stale bread in milk, strain through a collander very 
fine, beat in the yolks of four eggs, and a little flour — just enough 
to make a thin batter — add a teaspoonful of saleratus, and put in 
the whites beaten stiff, just before you are ready to fry them. Have 
the griddle hot. — Mignon. 

SLAPJACKS. 

Take a pint of milk and beat into it three eggs, and enough flour 
to make a thin batter; add a little salt and a teaspoonful of melted 
butter. Bake in large round cakes on a griddle. Spread with 
butter and sprinkle with sugar and nutmeg as soon as taken off. 
Pile one upon another. When you have enough to place upon the 
table, cut in quarters down through — Mignon. 

BUCKWHEATS. 

One quart of buckwheat flour, four tablespoon fuls of yeast, one 
teaspoonful of salt, one handful of Indian meal, two tablespoonfuls 
of molasses, ( not syrup, ) and warm water enough to make a thin 
batter, beat well and set to rise in a warm place. If in the morn- 
ing the batter is sour, put in a little soda dissolved in hot water. 
Leave about a cupful every morning for a sponge for next time. — 



Q UICK B UCK WEE A TS- 

To one pint of buckwheat flour, while dry, add three teaspoon fuls 
of baking powder, one teaspoonful salt, one tablespoonful molasses. 
When ready to bake, add cold water or sweet milk enough to form 
a batter, and bake immediately on a hot griddle. — Mrs. Hoagland, 

GREEK PEAS FRITTER. 

Cook a pint or three cups more peas than you need for dinner, 
mash while hot, season with pepper, salt and butter. In the morn- 
ing add two beaten eggs, a cupful of milk, one-fourth teaspoonful 
soda, one-half teaspoonful cream tartar, one-half cup of flour. Stir 
the mashed peas into this mixture thoroughly, and cook as griddle 
cakes. — Mrs. S. B. 



14 THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 

EGG PLANT FRITTERS- 

Take one egg plant and slice it; boil until quite soft, make a 
batter with one egg and one-half cup of milk, mixing the egg plan? 
with it. Fry in a little lard. — [Mrs. N. A. Hyde. 



These receipts are not all "hygienic," but sufficiently so to stand 
in a corner by themselves. 

GRAHAM BREAD. 

Take two quarts of Graham flour, sift thoroughly, then scrape off 
the top where there is the most bran, put the bran in a basin and 
scald it ; after mixing thoroughly, add cold water enough to make- 
it lukewarm, then add flour enough to make a stiff batter, then add 
your yeast — one-half teacup dried yeast soaked in lukewarm water 
or one quart of sponge from white bread. Set this in a warm place 
and let it rise well, then add one cup of sugar, small handful of salt 
and flour enough to make stiff, but not hard ; cover it up and set 
it to rise again ; when light, have your pans well buttered (quart 
pans are the best (mould your bread with as little flour as 'possible 
and place in the pans ; let the loaves rise ten minutes, then bake an 
hour and a half with a slow fire. — Mrs. Kittle Kimball. 

GRAHAM BREAD- 

Three pints of warm water, one teacup of sugar, two spoonfuls of 
good moist yeast, or the same proportion of dry ; thicken with 
Graham flour, no salt, and pour into a well-buttered dripping pan ; 
allow it time to get well risen and bake in a moderate oven — Mrs. 
Ninde, Mrs. M. Taylor. 



THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. I 5 

BROWN BREAD. 

Two full quarts of Graham flour, two small tablespoonfuls salt, 
two-thirds teacup molasses, a teacup brewer's yeast — if home-made, 
a little more — one teaspoonful soda. Mix with warm water to a 
thick batter, let it stand to rise, and bake an hour in a moderate 
oven — Mrs. Henry Little, Amelia Nieble. 

GRAHAM BISCUIT. 

One teacup brewer's yeast — if home-made, one coffee cup — one pint 
lukewarm water, about one and a half pints fine wheat flour made 
into batter. Set in a warm place to rise and when light add one- 
half teacup sugar, four tablespoonfuls of butter, a little salt, and 
thicken with unsifted Graham flour, not quite a pint. Knead the 
soft sponge in the same; adding just enough Graham flour to make 
it manageable, about one and one-fourth pints in all ; set away to 
rise. When light, knead down and let it rise again, then mould 
into biscuit and when quite light bake in a quick oven. — Laura 
K . 

GRAHAM BISCUIT. 

Pour warm water on Graham flour until all the flour is wet ; have 
it about as stiff as can be stirred with an iron spoon, place the 
dough with plenty of flour on your moulding board, knead two or 
three minutes, roll one-half an inch thick, cut in small cakes or 
rolls and bake in a hot oven 45 minutes. 

Make Graham Mush as for table, let it cool, mix with Graham 
flour sufficient to roll well, knead two minutes, roll three-fourths of 
an inch thick, cut with a biscuit cutter, bake forty minutes. — Mrs. 
Ninde, Mrs. Margaret Taylor. 

GRAHAM DROP BISCUIT. 

One quart of flour, three teaspoonfuls of baking powder, piece of 
butter size of an egg, sweet milk sufficient to make a batter stiff 
enough to drop by the spoonful on greased biscuit pans. Sour 
milk can be used omitting baking powder and using one teaspoon- 
ful of soda.— Mrs. Will S 



1 6 THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 

One quart Graham flour, three eggs, pinch of salt, one teaspoon- 
ful of baking powder, one pint milk ; bake in heated buttered gem 
pans in a hot oven. — Mrs. Geo. L. Little.. 

GRAHAM RUSKS. 

Break dry bread — Graham is best — in small pieces, brown it in 
the oven, then grind it in either acoffee or rusk mill, and put upon 
the table dry, to be eaten with milk and sugar, or milk alone. Is 
a very nice dish, particularly in summer, or for children who are 
inclined to summer difficulties of the stomach and bowels. — Mrs. 
Ninde, 

GRAHAM PIE CRUST. 

Sift a teaspoonful of baking powder with a pint of Graham flour, 
and make a soft dough by stirring in sweet cream. Roll out, with- 
out kneading, and you will have a tender and healthful pie crust. — 
Can use cream a little sour. Will not be noticed when baked. — 
Mrs. Will StockbHdge. 

GEMS. 

Gem pans should be well heated and greased before putting the 
mixture in, and then baked in a hot oven. 

One pint of Graham flour, one teaspoonful baki»g powder, a 
little salt, one teaspoonful white sugar; stir up with milk or water 
a little stiffer than griddle cakes. — -Mrs. Mattie Little. 

One pint of sour milk, one teaspoonful soda, one tablespoonful 
molasses, a pinch of salt, brown flour enough to make a stiff batter. 
— Mrs. J. B. Morse. 

Make a thick batter with cold water or sweet milk and Graham 
flour, no salt, and bake in gem pans in a hot oven. Will be very 
light and delicious. — Mrs. Ninde, Mrs. M. Taylor. 

GEMS WITH G.YEEGG. 

One pint of milk, one egg, little salt, Graham flour enough for a 
stiff batter. — Mrs. Will StockbHdge 



THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. I 7 

GRAHAM COOKIES. 

Piece of butter the size of an egg, one coffeecup of sugar, one- 
half teaspoonful of saleratus, one-half cup water, Graham flour 
enough to roll out, not stiff, but as soft as possible. Bake quickly ; 
keep in a drv place. They resemble pop corn candy.- -Mary S. 

MOLASSES DROP CAKES- 

One cup sweet cream, one of milk, one of molasses, two eggs well 
beaten and Graham flour enough to make a rather thin batter. Can 
put a teaspoonful of baking powder in the Hour. Ginger is not 
strictly hygienic, but you can add a little if you choose. Bake in 
a quick oven. — Li I lie S. 

GRAHAM CAKE. 

One and one-half cups of sugar, one-half of butter, three eggs 
well beaten, one teaspoonful cream tartar, one-half teaspoonful of 
soda dissolved in one cup of milk, about two and one-half cups of 
Graham Hour. It must not be stiff; flavor to taste. Is nice with 
currants; also makes nice jelly or cream take baked thin. — Sadie 
Kimball. 

CREAM CAKE. 

One pint of sweet cream, one cup white sugar, one of raisins or 
currants, one egg, and Graham flour enough to make a rather thin 
batter; sift two teaspoonfuls of baking powder in the flour. — Mrs. 
Will Stockbridge. 

Use Hosford's Bread Preparation. 



1& I HE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 



MEATS. 



All meats, poultry and fish should be boiled slowly ; to boil them 
fast hardens the outside before the inside is warm, and discolors the 
meat. When you boil mutton or beef, dredge them well with flour 
before you put them into the kettle of cold water. Keep it cover- 
ed and take off the scum. Mutton and beef do not require so much 
boiling; but pork, veal or lamb are not wholesome if they are not 
boiled enough. When you roast any kind of meat, put a little salt 
and water in your dripping pan ; baste your meat with it ; let it 
dry. Then dredge it well with flour and baste it with butter. It 
makes the meat a better color. Corned beef should be put into 
boiling water. For corned beef the round is the best. The nicest 
mutton roast is a leg, the bone taken out, and the cavity stuffed 
with a dressing of dry bread. Two and a half or three pounds of 
porter house steak makes a nice roast for a family of three. A rump 
roast is nice. About one and one-quarter to one and one-half 
pounds of pork or beefsteak is sufficient for the same. Porterhouse 
is cheaper than sirloin, having less bone. 

TO COOK STEAK. 

Slash the steak with a sharp knife on both sides. Rub flour over 
it. Have your gridiron or dish it is to be cooked in "piping hot." 
After taking out, season with butter, salt and pepper. — Mrs. W. 
S. Buck. 

DRESSING FOR MEAT. 

One cup of bread crumbs, pepper, salt and sage, or sweet mar- 
goram for seasoning. Mix it up with an egg. 



THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 1 9 

BOILED HAM. 

A ham should be put into cold water enough to more than cover 
it, and boiled gently. A ham weighing fifteen pounds requires five 
hours boiling. 

TO COOK MUTTON CHOPS. 

Beat up an egg and season the chops with pepper and salt, dip 
them in the egg, roll them in bread crumbs, and frv. Veal or 
chicken can be fried in the same manner. 

ROAST BEEF. 

The sirloin is considered the best ; if for a small family the rib; 
prepare it for the oven by dredging over the top with pepper and 
salt, placing a little water in the pan with which baste the meat once 
in a while. From fifteen to twenty minutes to the pound is the rule 
for roasting. 

BOILED BEEF. 

The round is the best ; put in the pot with water enough to cover 
it. Let it boil slowly at first, that it may be tender, taking off the 
scum as it rises; should boil from two to three hours, according to 
the size. 

BEEF STEAK. 

The inside of the sirloin is the best ; cut about three-fourths of 
an inch thick. 

ROAST PORK. 

Cut the skin of a leg of pork in squares, make a dressing of bread 
crumbs, sage, pepper and salt, moistened with the yolk of an egg ; 
put under the skin of the knuckle and sprinkle a little fine sage into 
the rind when it is cut; sprinkle with flour, pepper and salt. A 
good sized leg will require about three hours roasting. Shoulder, 
loin and spare ribs roasted in the same way. 

PORK STEAKS. 

Cut from the neck or loin ; broil over a clear fire, turning often ; 
season while broiling. The loin, haunch and saddle of mutton and 
lamb are roasted the same as beef. In roasting meat, time, good 
steady fire, and care are the necessary requisites. 



20 HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 

BOILING MEAT. 

Allow one-quarter of an hour for every pound, skim well, for if 
you do not it boils down and makes the meat black. Fresh meat 
should be put in when the water boils, except when you are making 
sou]) ; and salt meat, when the water is cold. In boiling eggs let 
the water boil before they are put in. In three minutes an egg will 
boil soft, in four the white is cooked, and in ten the egg is hard 
enough to use for salad. 

SALTPETERED TONGUE 

Requires five or six hours to boil. When done lay it into < old 
water three minutes ; peel off the skin, beginning at the tip end of 
the tongue, as it comes off much easier. — Mrs. S. R. 

LEG OF MUTTON BOILED. 

A leg of mutton weighing ten pounds requires an hour and a halj 
to boil. Flour a cloth, tie the meat in very tight, and put it into 
boiling water. When done put it into a pan and turn cold water 
over it. and let it remain two minutes before removing the cloth. 
This makes the mutton look very white. — Mrs. Robinson. 

SHOULDER OF MUTTON. 

This is cooked in the same way as a leg, but may be boiled one- 
half hour less. — Mrs. Robinson. 

LEG OF LAMB. 

An ordinaiw sized one should be boiled about an hour and a half. 
Drawn butter and parsley to be served with it. — Mrs. R. 

SPARE-RIBS. 

Spare- ribs are nicer if before being roasted they are rubbed with 
a little pepper, salt and fine sage. Or a dressing of bread crumbs 
can be placed between them before roasting. 



THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 2 I 



POULTRY AND GAME. 



TURKEY. 



A good sized turkey should be roasted two and a half or three 
hours, very slowly at first ; make dressing of pounded crackers or 
stale bread crumbs, little butter, sage or summer savory as wished, 
and an egg, mixed thoroughly together and fill the "vacuum." 

DUCKS &ND GEESE. 

Roasted like turkey, adding onion in dressing if wished. For 
wild ducks, pigeons and other wild fowl, use only pepper and salt 
for seasoning. 

CHICKENS. 

Roasted like turkey ; do not require so much time, from one 
hour to an hour and a half is long enough. Pigeons the same ; will 
cook in about half an hour. 



FISH. 



Fish are good and fresh if the gills are red, the eyes full and the 
body of the fish firm and stiff. When boiled it should be done over 
a slow fire and skimmed frequently. Season the water with salt, 
having enough to cover the fish. If baked, which is best, score the 
back, sprinkle with flour, pepper and salt. Stuff with dressing as 
for meats or fowls if wished. Put little water in the pan in which 
it is baked, with a little butter, with which baste. 

CODFISH TOtiST. 
Freshen nicely picked codfish by laying it in water over night. 
In the morning add sweet cream or milk and butter, one egg, heat 
it and pour on nicely toasted bread. 

3 

N 



22 THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 

CHOWDER. 

A few slices of salt pork in the bottom of the kettle, then a layer 
of fresh fish, and over it a layer of split crackers, then raw potatoes 
sliced thin with salt and pepper, then more pork, fish and crackers 
to the quantity desired ; over it pour milk and water and two table- 
spoonfuls of flour mixed in smoothly until there is enough to cover 
the contents of the pot ; cover down tight and cook slowly half an 
hour. Salt fish can be substituted for fresh, if first soaked a 
little.— Mrs. B. H. Kimball. 

Take a cod weighing about six pounds, and a haddock weighing 
four pounds ; cut them in pieces about six inches square, wash them 
clean and wipe them dry and dredge them with a little flour. Cut 
into slices, about a quarter of a pound of salt pork and two onions. 
Fry the pork a nice brown in a pot large enough to make the chow- 
der in. Take out the pork and put into the hot fat a layer offish, 
then put in a little of the onion, a few bits of pork, a little pepper 
and salt ; dredge in some flour, then another layer of fish, then the 
seasoning, and continue until the fish and seasoning are all in the 
pot. Split eight hard crackers, dip them into cold water and lay 
them over the fish ; put in hot water enough to cover the fish, and 
after it begins to boil, let it boil thirty minutes. Some like half 
milk and half water. — Mrs. B. H. Kimball. 

CODFISH BULLS. 

Pick up the fish and soak over night, add as much again hot 
boiled potatoes as you have fish, mix together until fine, beat two 
or three eggs and put in a lump of butter the size of an egg, pepper 
and salt ; rub the hands in flour and roll the mixture in balls and 
fry in hot lard. — Hattie Woodward. 

SCRtiMBlED CODFISH. 

Pick codfish in pieces and soak over night ; in the morning add 
one cup of sweet milk, when hot, not boiling, add six eggs well 
beaten and stirred briskly, be careful not to boil it, season with 
butter and pepper.— Mrs. Martha Bieber. 



THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 2 3 

OUR FISHCAKE. 

Take fish either fresh or that that has been cooked, pick it in 
pieces, let it stew with some butter covering it over until done, soak 
some stale bread (baker's) in milk, beat up the fish and that to- 
gether in a mortar with three eggs, season with pepper and salt, 
mix all well together, bake in small cups, first buttered, and turn 
out ; serve with or without sauce. 

B&KED COD. 

A fish weighing six or eight pounds is a good size to bake. It 
should be cooked whole to look well. Make a dressing of bread 
crumbs, butter, salt, parsley, onions and a little salt pork chopped 
fine ; mix this up with one egg, fill the body, sew it up. Lay in a 
large pan ; lay across it some strips of salt pork to flavor it. Put a 
pint of water and a little salt into the pan ; bake it an hour and a 
half. Baste it often with butter and flour. Dish the fish, thicken 
the gravy and pour over the fish. — Mrs. Ann Wagoner. 

FRIED SMELTS. 

Split them first far enough to clean them, lay them in salt and 
water, and let them remain an hour , then wash them clean and 
wipe them dry. Have ready two eggs, beat up on a plate, and some 
cracker crumbs in another plate. Heat some lard in the frying pan 
very hot, dip the smelts into the egg, roll them in the crumbs and 
put them into boiling fat. Fry a light brown and serve hot with 
drawn butter. — Mrs. B. LL. 

CODFISH AND POTATOES- 

Eight or nine hours before you wish to use, soak salted codfish, 
as much as vou choose, then pick it in pieces and scald in a pan ; 
don't let it boil, but get as hot as it can, put it then in sweet milk, 
if there is nothing to hinder, with butter and pepper and boil till 
tender, then beat up an egg, stir quickly into it, but don't let it 
boil, if you do, you will rue it ; as much again potatoes, mashed 
finely and smooth, mixed with it, and toothsome and good it will 
prove; pour over the whole some goodly egg sauce, and you will 
find you could taste of many things worse. — Laura Kimball. 



24 THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 

FRIED PERCH- 
Clean and prepare as smelts. They require a longer time to fry 
as they are larger and thicker. Fresh cod's tongues fried in the 
same way are very nice. — Mrs , Kimball. 

FRIED SALMON. 

Cut the salmon into slices half an inch thick ; dredge some flour 
over them and fry in butter, with egg and crumbs, as smelts. Corn 
meal can be used to roll them in. — Mrs. John M. 

BROILED MACKEREL.— Fresh. 

Split it down the back, sprinkle it with a little salt at night ; the 
next morning wash off the salt, wipe it dry and broil it before a 
quick fire. Put the outside to the fire first. When done spread 
over it some butter, and send to table hot. — Mrs. B. H. 

EELS, 

After they are skinned, turn boiling water over them and let them 
remain about half an hour. To fry them, cut them up in pieces 
about six inches long, and fry as codfish in Indian meal. — Mrs. 
John M. 

Cream Gravy for Baked Fish. 
Have ready in a sauce pan a cup of cream, diluted with a few 
spoonfuls of hot water lest it should curdle in heating, in which has 
been stirred carefully two tablespoons of melted butter, and a little 
chopped parsley, heat this in a vessel set within another of boiling 
water, add the gravy from the dripping pan, in which it was baked, 
boil up once to thicken and pour over the fish. 

Gr arii for Fish- 
To one gill of boiling water add as much milk, and when it is 
scalding hot, stir in two tablespoonfuls of butter, a little at a time, 
a tablespoonful of flour previously wet with cold water, and as this 
thickens add two beaten eggs, season with salt, pepper and a little 
celery, flavoring. 

Sauce for Fish. 

Put a tablespoonful of butter into a frying pan and stir until it is 
browned, not burned, add half a cup of boiling water in which has 
been stirred previously a tablespoonful of browned flour, previously 
wet with cold water, add salt and pepper, and, if wished, the juice 
of one lemon and a teaspoonful of Worcestershire sauce, and let it 
boil up well, pour over the fish. 



THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 25 



VEGETABLES. 



Always let the water boil before putting them in, and continue 
to boil until done. Soft water is better; if hard is used put a little 
soda in and they will cook sooner and preserve their color better. 

TURNIPS 

Should be scraped before boiling, boil from forty minutes to one 
hour. If mashed, press the water out first. 

BEETS 

Should never be cut or scraped. Boil from one to two hours • 
when done put them, one at a time, into a pan of cold water and 
slip the skins off. 

CARROTS 

Can be cut if too large ; boil from thirty minutes to an hour and a 
half. 

SPINACH 

Should boil one and one-half hours. 

PARSNIPS 

From twenty to thirty minutes. 

ONIONS 

Are best boiied in two or three waters, adding milk the last time; 
boil from twenty to thirty minutes. 

STRING BErtNS 

Should be boiled from one hour to an hour and a half. 

SHEIIED BEGINS 

Require from half an hour to an hour. 

GREEN CORN 

From twenty to thirty minutes. 



26 THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 

GREEK PEtfS 

Should be boiled alone in as little water as possible ; boil twenty 
minutes. 

dSPtf.Rtf.GUS 

Same as peas ; serve on toast with cream gravy. 

WINTER SQUtfSH. 

Cut in pieces and boil from twenty to forty minutes in a small 
quantity of water ; when done, press the water out, mash smooth, 
and season with butter, pepper and salt. 

SUMMER SQUtfSH 

Should be boiled whole and need not be pared. If large take out 
the seeds after it is done. 

CABBtfGE tfKD DtfNDELIONS 

Should be boiled from half an hour to one hour in plenty of water ; 
if the cabbage is large, one and one-half hours. If silt is used in 
greens or cabbage put in while they are boiling. 

BEEF TOPS tfKB SPlNtfCH 

Need about twenty minutes in a small quantity of water. 

OLD POTATOES 

Are better to have the skins cut off the seed end and better still to 
be pared and put into cold water two or three hours before boiling ; 
then put them in fresh water ; when done pour off the water, put 
the kettle on the top of the stove uncovered until the potatoes are 
dry ; are healthiest baked. 



Vegetables and Sauces Appropriate to Different Kinds of Meats. 

Potatoes are good with all meats ; with fowls are the nicest 
mashed. 

Sweet potatoes are most appropriate with roast meat — as also are 
onions, winter squash, cucumbers and asparagus. 



THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 2 7 

Carrots, parsnips, turnips, greens and cabbage, are best with 
boiled meat. 

Mashed turnip is nice with roasted pork and boiled meats. 

Tomatoes are good with every kind of meat, but especially so 
with roasts. 

Apple sauce with roast pork, cranberry sauce with beef, fowls, 
veal and ham, currant jelly with roast mutton, pickles with roast 
meats. 

Horse radish is excellent with veal. 

TO PRESERVE CORN. 

Take good sugar corn, boil until the milk is killed, when cold 
cut from the ear and put down in a new jar, three pints of corn 
and one of salt, put in a layer of salt, then one of corn, till the jar 
is full, cover well with salt, keep in a dry place. When opened for 
use remove the top, soak till perfectly fresh, then season as you 
would fresh corn, only add one tablespoonful of white sugar, put it 
in the cream, and cook quite a while in the cream. — Mrs. C. 
Warren, Jr. 

BROWNED POTATOES. 

Peel some large ripe potatoes, and three-quarters of an hour be- 
fore a piece of roast beef is removed from the oven skim off the 
fat from the gravy, put the potatoes in the dripping pan, dredge 
them with flour and baste with the gravy, and when quite brown 
drain on a sieve, place them about the meat in the dish when served- 

BOILED POTATOES. 

Cut whole, boiled potatoes lengthwise and lay on a gridiron ove r 
a hot fire, brown on both sides, sprinkle with salt and pepper, lay 
bits of butter over them, serve hot. Cold sweet potatoes are also 
very nice prepared in the same way. — Mignon. 

S WEET PO TA TOES. 

Cold sweet potatoes are nice sliced and placed in an oven to 
warm, then pouring over them some cream or milk thickened a 
little, and seasoned with butter, pepper and salt. 



28 THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 

PARSNIPS. 

Scrape and split them, and put into a pot of boiling water, and 
cook until tender ; dress with butter, pepper and salt, or can be 
dipped in beaten egg and grated cracker and fried in lard. — Mrs. 
Sarah K. 

FRIED PARSNIPS. 

Boil till tender and scrape, cut in thick slices lengthwise, dredge 
with flour and fry in lard or butter, browning both sides, salt and 
pepper; serve hot. — Mrs. Sarah K. 

STEWED POTATOES. 

Pare, quarter and soak them in cold water half an hour, stew 
them in enough cold water to cover them, add a little salt, just 
before taking up pour off part the water, add a cupful of milk, 
with a little butter, pepper and salt, thicken with a little flour or one 
egg stirred in carefully. Serve hot in a buttered dish. — L. A. K. 

FRIED C&BBtiGE. 

Chop the quantity of cabbage wished put over the fire with vin- 
egar, water, pepper, salt and butter, cover closely and let it cook 
till tender, putting in more water if it boils down, when tender let 
it cook brown. — Mrs. Hattie Chapman. 

CAULIFLOWER. 

Break off the green leaves, cut from the stalk close at the bottom. 
If large divide into four quarters, put into cold water and let it lie 
not over an hour, then put it into boiling milk and water, or water 
only — milk makes it white — skim while boiling, when the stalks 
are tender, take it up, have ready a cupful of nice drawn butter, 
pour over it, serve quickly, eat hot ; it darkens with standing. 

FRIED TOMATOES. 

Cover sliced ripe tomatoes with a nice batter and fry them in 
hot butter and lard mixed, or slice them, season with pepper and 
salt and fry in butter ; if they are green dip them in flour, after 
being seasoned. Apples that will cook easily are also nice covered 
with batter and fried. — Mrs. A. C. Keel and Mrs. Martha Bieber. 



THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 29 

STUFFED BAKED TOMATOES. 

Take large smooth tomatoes, cut a thin slice from the blossom 
end of each, laying aside for future use, scoop out the inside and 
chop fine with grated bread crumbs, salt, pepper and a little butter, 
mix well and stuff the tomatoes. Fit the top on neatly, place 
around a deep dish and bake three-quarters of an hour to a light 
brown, do not peel them. If you have any of the "stuffing" left 
fill the spaces between with it. 

BAKED CABBAGE. 

Boil a firm, white cabbage fifteen minutes, then change the water 
for more that is boiling, boil till tender, drain and set aside till per- 
fectly cold, then chop very fine, add salt, pepper, one tablespoonful 
of butter, two eggs well beaten, three tablespoonfuls of rich milk 
or cream, mix well and bake in a buttered pudding dish in a mod- 
erate oven till brown, eat hot and serve in the pudding dish ; is 
very nice and more digestible than some other ways of using cab- 
bage. — Mrs. Lillie Stockbridge. 

srCCOTASH. 

Take one-third more green corn than Lima Beans — some substi- 
tute string beans or butter beans — cut the corn from the cob and 
shell the beans, put into boiling water, enough to cover them — no 
more — and stew gently together until tender, perhaps half an hour, 
stirring now and then ; pour off nearly all the water and add alarge 
cupful of milk, cream if you have it ; stew in this, watching to pre- 
vent burning, for about an hour, then stir in a piece of butter, one 
teaspoon ful of flour with cold milk, if it is not thick enough ( pep- 
per and salt to taste ; boil up once and serve in a deep dish. If 
string beans are used, cut up into pieces about half an inch long 
before cooking. — Mrs. Mattie Littie and Mrs. S. B. 

TOMATO SA UCE. 

Scald and skin fifteen ripe tomatoes, strain through a sieve to re- 
move the seeds, then put them in a saucepan with half pint of good 
beef gravy or "stock" from soup, a little pepper and salt and let 
them simmer an hour ; this is nice with beefsteak or any made 
dishes. 

4 



30 THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 

EGG PLANT. 

Pare and cut in slices half an inch thick, sprinkle a little salt 
between each slice, cover down and let it stand for an hour, then 
rinse off the salt with (dear cold water, wipe each slice dry, dip first 
in beaten egg, then in rolled cracker or bread crumbs, season with 
pepper and salt and fry in butter or lard, till thoroughly clone and 
a nice brown. — Mrs. Lillie S. 

SCALLOPED TOMATOES. 

Take tomatoes fully ripe, scald, remove the skins, cover the bot- 
tom of a buttered pudding dish, a layer of tomatoes seasoned with 
pepper and salt, cover with another layer of bread and butter, and 
so alternately, until the dish is full, finishing at the top with toma- 
toes, bake in a moderate oven one-half hour, serve hot in the dish 
in which it was baked. — Mrs. Joint Gi Inert. 

FRIED APPLES. 

Take good sized sour apples, cut them in slices through the core 
and fry in butter or fat of salt pork- 

ASPARAGUS LEA PES. 

Cut up tender asparagus ; boil and drain it, take stale rolls, cut 
off the tops neatly and scrape out the inside, set it in the oven to 
crisp without the tops, that the cavities may be well dried ; mean- 
while put into a sauce pan the quantity of milk needed, and when 
boiled stir in well-beaten eggs, four to a pint of milk, until it thick- 
ens, when add a little butter, pepper and salt, lastly the asparagus 
- -do not let it boil but take from the fire as soon as the asparagus 
is all in, fill the rolls with the mixture, put on the tops, fitting ac- 
curately ( it is well to place the tops beside the rolls when first set 
in the oven to dry so that you will know where they belong) set in 
the oven a few minutes, arrange them in dish and eat hot. 

SPL.YACH. 

Pick it (lean, let it lie in cold water an hour ; wash it out and 
boil it an hour and a half, then put it in a collendar to drain ; drop 
four eggs in boiling water; dish the spinach and take the eggs out 
carefully so as not to break them and lay them on the top of the 
s pinach. 



THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 3 1 

ANOTHER, METHOD. 

Boil the spinach one hour, take it up and chop it very fine, add 
pepper, salt and a little piece of butter ; put it into a saucepan and 
simmer it ten minutes ; toast some bread, butter it, and dish the 
spinach on the to'ast. 

FRIED CUCUMBERS. 

Pare and lay them in ice water half an hour, cut lengthwise into 
slices nearly half an inch thick and lay in ice water still a little 
longer, wipe each piece dry, sprinkle with pepper, salt and flour 
and fry in butter. Very nice and more wholesome than when 
served raw. — Mrs. Lillie S. 

MACARONI a la CREME. 

Break the macaroni into inch lengths and cook ten or fifteen 
minutes in boiling water, drain this off and add a cup of milk and 
stew until tender, having put in a little salt ; in another saucepan 
heat a cup of milk to boiling, thicken with a little flour, add a table- 
spoonful of butter, and lastly a beaten egg, pour this over the mac- 
aroni after it is dished ; if used as a vegetable grate a little cheese 
over the top, if for desert eat with sweet sauce. — Airs. IV. S. 

BAKED MACARONI. 

Break half a pound into inch lengths, put into a saucepan of 
boiling water with a little salt, boil till perfectly tender but not split 
or broken, drain well, butter i pudding dish, into which put alter- 
nate layers of macaroni and grated cheese, with bits of butter, 
scattered thickly over the cheese ; finish with a layer of macaroni, 
well buttered with a little cheese grated on the top, add a few 
spoonfuls of milk or cream and a very little salt, cover the dish 
and bake half an hour then brown nicely and serve in the dish in 
which it was baked. — Mrs. W. S. 

FRIED TOMATOES. 

Slice up large green tomatoes. Roll them in bread crumbs, egg, 
or flour. Fry in hot butter. Season while frying with pepper, salt 
and a little sugar. Cook until nice and brown. They will be 
found to be a nice varietv for breakfast. — Cousiu A nine. 



3 2 THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 



MADE DISHES. 



A CHEAP BREAKFAST AMD SUPPER DISH. 

Take a soup bone (shank) with plenty of meat on; put it in a 
kettle of cold water, remove the scum which rises at the top, then 
boil until the meat falls from the bone ; remove the bones after 
scraping' every particle of gristle and marrow from them ; chop up 
your meat and return to the kettle, which you must keep three- 
quarters full ; salt and pepper to taste, then thicken with corn meal 
as you do mush, stir until it is thoroughly mixed together, then 
turn out to cool, after which slice and fry brown. — Mrs. John Gil- 
bert. 

BEEF PIE. 

Take cold roast beef or steak, cut into thin slices, and put a 
layer into a pie dish with flour, pepper and salt, cut up a tomato 
or onion chopped fine, (can be made without it) then another layer 
of beef and seasoning, and so on, until the dish is full. If you have 
any beef gravy, put it in, if not, butter, and water enough to make 
sufficient gravy. Mash one dozen boiled potatoes smoothly with 
half cup of cream or milk, little butter and salt. Spread it over 
the pie as a crust, an inch thick ; brush it over with an egg and 
bake about twenty-five minutes. — Mrs. Sarah R. 

CHEESE FIXGERS. 

Sift six heaping tablespoon fuls of flour on the flour board, make a 
hole in the center, and put into it two tablespoonfuls of milk or 
cream, three tablespoonfuls grated cheese, four tablespoonfuls ol 
butter, little salt, pepper, yolks of two eggs. Mix these to a smooth 
paste with the lingers, roll it out one-quarter of an ineh thick, cut in 
short narrow strips, and bake a light yellow on a buttered pan in a 
moderate oven. — Annie K. 

MOCK DUCK. 

Take the round of beefsteak, salt and pepper both sides. Pre- 
pare a dressing, spread it on the steak, then roll up. Sew it, to 
keep iu place, and roast about an hour. — Mrs. John Gilbert. 



THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 33 

BAKED CHICKEN PIE. 

Line a buttered dish with rich, light crust, cut up a good sized 
chicken, parboil a short time, the length depending upon the age 
of the fowl ; place in the bottom of the dish a layer of chicken, 
then a layer of sliced potatoes, which have first been parboiled, 
before slicing, season with pepper and salt and bits of butter, then 
chicken, and so on until the chicken is used up, fill up with the 
water in which the chicken was boiled, sprinkle a little flour on 
the top, cover with a rich crust rolled quite thick and slit in the 
middle. Salt pork can be used instead of butter if wished. Veal, 
beefsteak, lamb, etc., can be substituted in place of chicken. Have 
no crust oh the bottom of the dish. — Mrs. B. H. Kimball. 

BREAKFAST DISH. 

Take pieces of cold meat, chop fine, season with butter, pepper 
and salt, with enough water for plenty of gravy, toast pieces of 
bread and put alternate layers meat and the bread, finishing with 
the chopped meat, pour water over to make a gravy. — Mrs. J. 
Gilbert. 

DISH FOR BREAKFAST. 

Take the number of eggs wished, season, pass through a sieve, and 
a little milk, put in a stew-pan and set over a slow fire till the eggs 
thicken a little, remove it from the fire, add a small piece of butter, 
and when melted add finely minced fowl meat, fish, asparagus, 
peas or cauliflower, as desired, the latter stirred in until warmed 
through, but not suffered to boil. 

CHICKEN PATE, 

Boil two chickens till tender, take out all the bones and chop 
the meat fine, season to the taste with salt, pepper and butter, pour 
in enough of the liquid they were boiled in to make it moist, pu t 
into whatever mould you wish, and when cold cut into slices. It 
is excellent. 

BOILED FOWL WITH OYSTERS- 

Take a young chicken, fill the inside with oysters, boil it for one 
hour and a half, make a gravy of the water it is boiled in. The 
chicken will be very white and tender and of exceedingly fine 
flavor. 



34 THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 

TONGUE TOAST. 

Chop a cold boiled tongue fine, mix' with cream or milk with a 
little butter, the beaten yolk of an egg and give it a simmer over 
the fire, butter some nicely toasted slices of bread, cover each slice 
with the tongue mixture, spread on hot and send to the table cov- 
ered. For tongue, ham can be substituted. 

DELICIOUS TOASTED CHEESE. 

Cut two ounces of cheese into thin slices, put it into a saucepan, 
st't it on the fire and add one-half cup fresh milk, simmer until the 
cheese is quite dissolved, then take it from the fire and pour it into 
a shallow dish ; when cooled a little add the yolk of one egg, well 
beaten, then place it in the oven and brown nicely. 

OMELET OE ASPARA GUS- 

Take six eggs and beat them up with cream or milk. Roil some 
asparagus, when it is boiled cut in small pieces and mix with the 
eggs, adding pepper and salt, cook until it thickens a little : serve 
on buttered toast. 

BREAKFAST DISH. 

Slice a few cold biscuits or some dry light bread, fry them 
slightly in a little butter or nice gravy, beat three or four eggs with 
half a cup of sweet milk and a pinch of salt ; when the bread is hot 
pour the eggs over it and cover for a few minutes, stir lightly so 
that the eggs will cook. This is a nice dish, besides using up the 
dry bread. 

OYSTER LOAVES. 

Take small French rolls, make a round hole in the top and 
scrape out the crumbs, then put your oysters into a pan with their 
liquor and the crumbs that come out of the rolls, add a good lump 
of butter and stew them together five or six minutes, then put in a 
spoonful of good cream or milk or butter, fill your rolls with the 
oysters, lay the piece of crust carefully on again and set the loaves 
in the oven to warm. 



THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 35 

OMELET. 

Three eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately, half a teacup of 
milk, one tablespoonful of flour, half of butter ; pepper and salt to 
the taste; stir the flour into half of the milk and melt the, butter in 
the other; put the whites in last ; bake in jelly-cake pans; serve 
hot. — Laura Kimball. 

A JV1CE WAY TO FIX HAM. 

After it is boiled take off the skin anil rub it all over with an egg, 
then strew bread crumbs over it, baste wih butter and set it in the 
oven until it is baked a light brown. 

FRIED OYSTERS. 

Pound crackers very fine, have the skillet hot, roll the oysters in 
crackers, fry in butter, season and serve hot. — Mrs. Frank Chap- 
man. 

FRIED OYSTERS. 

To half can oysters, add whites of two eggs and two tablespoon- 
fuls of cream tartar beaten well together. Dry the oysters on a 
cloth and dip into pounded crackers sifted, or bread crumbs sea- 
soned ; dip an oyster in the egg and then lay both sides in the 
crumbs; fry in butter and lard mixed. — Mrs. Rev. Henry Little. 

CORJV YSTERS 

One dozen ears of corn, ' cut the-kernels'through the middle, and 
scrape from tiie cob, half cup of milk, one egg, half cup flour, 
tablespoonful of butter, mix well together, season with salt and 
pepper, make into cakes, fry in hot lard. — Mrs. Nellie Griggs. 

CORJV YSTERS. 

Half dozen ears of boiled corn, three eggs, ! one and a half table- 
spoonfuls of flour, beat the yolks smooth, grate the corn and sea- 
son well, then mix with the yolks and add the flour, whisk the 
whites to a stiff froth and stir in the mixture, then fry like oysters, 
in butter. — Mrs. C. M. Dawson 



36 THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 

BEEF OMELET 

Four pounds of round of beef, free of fat, chopped very fine, 
four crackers rolled fine, four eggs, two tablespoonfuls of milk, salt, 
pepper and little butter, mix and roll in a loaf, put in a baking 
dish, placing bits of butter on the top, and strew with cracker 
crumbs, bake, and when cold slice. — Hattie Woodward. 

FRIED BOILED EGGS. 

Slice up hard boiled eggs, dip in raw eggs and bread crumb s 
and fry in butter, serve hot. 

OMELET. 

Beat six eggs very light, the whites to a stiff froth that will stand 
alone, and the yolks to a smooth thick batter, add to the yolks a 
small cup of sweet milk, pepper and salt, lastly stir in the whites 
lightly : have ready in a hot frying pan a good lump of butter, when 
it hisses stir in the mixture gently and set over a clear fire ; it 
should cook ten minutes at most, do not stir, but contrive as the 
eggs "set" to slip a broad bladed knife under the omelet to guard 
against burning at the bottom ; if your oven is hot you may put 
the omelet in it as soon as the middle of the omelet is "set ;" when 
done lay a hot dish bottom upwards on the top of the pan and 
dexterously upset the latter and bring the browned side of the 
omelet uppermost. — Mrs. Will Stockbridge. 

OYSTER FRITTERS. 

Half pint of sweet milk, two eggs well beaten, flour to make a 
batter, little salt and soda, put in the oysters and fry in hot butter 
and lard mixed. — Mrs. Mills. 

A NICE WAY TO COOK CHICKEN. 

Cut it up, put in a pan and cover with water, stew until done, 
then set in the oven to brown. Pour over it a thickening made of 
cream or milk and flour, butter, pepper and salt. — Mrs. E. M 
Kimball. 



tiiil household treasure. 37 

CL£M PIE. 

Boil small clams, cut off the dark part and the heads, make a 
crust as for chicken pie, take the water they were boiled in, add 

pepper, butter and a little flour, fill the dish with the clams and 
water, cover with the crust and bake until the latter is done. — 
Mrs. Richardson. 

VEAL LOAF. 

Three pounds uncooked veal, quarter of a pound of salt pork, 
less will answer if butter is used, chop fine, mix with three eggs, 
three boston crackers pounded, one and a half teaspoon fuls of salt, 
two of pepper, one grated lemon, half teacup catsup, press hard 
into a pudding dish and bake two hours, slice thin and eat cold. — 
Mrs. Rev. Henry Little. 

8C&LL0PPED OYSTERS. 

In the bottom of a buttered pudding dish put a layer of rolled 
(lackers, moistened, with some of the oyster liquor and milk, 
slightly warmed, next a layer of oysters, sprinkle with salt and 
pepper, and putting a little butter on them, have another layer of 
moistened crumbs and so on till the dish is full, let the top layer 
be of crumbs thicker than the rest, and beat an egg in the milk 
you moisten it with, stick hits of butter thickly over it and cover 
the dish and bake half an hour, removing the cover at the last, and 
browning the top. — Mrs. Addie Howard. 

CHICK EM CORK PIE. 

Cut up two chickens and stew them till done in a good rich 
gravy, have ready two dozen ears of corn, take a sharp knife, cut 
off, closely scraping the cob, then take a baking pan, place a layer 
of corn on the bottom of the pan or dish, then a layer of the 
chicken and so until you get all the chicken in, then cover with 
the corn, pour in all the gravy, put a small lump of butter in the 
top and let it bake in a moderate oven about fifteen or twenty 
minutes, if the corn is young and tender, if not, a little longer, 
cover it over until just before you wish to take it up. when, remove 
the cover and brown it, have a good deal of gravy or it will cook 
too dry. 

5 



38 THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 

B&KED EGGS. 

Break eggs into a buttered dish, far enough apart for the yolks 
not to touch each other, sprinkle with salt and pepper, putting a 
little butter upon each, if wished; bake until the whites ''set;" 
serve hot on toast. 

EGG GEMS. 

Mix together chopped meat and bread crumbs with pepper and 
salt and butter, and a little milk, fill some buttered gem pans with 
the mixture, then break an egg carefully upon the top of each, 
season with salt and pepper, sprinkle some very fine cracker 
crumbs on the top, bake for eight minutes; eat hot. 

.UErtT CROQETS. 

Take cold fowl or fresh meat of any kind, with slices of ham, fat 
and lean, chop them together fine, add half as much stale bread 
grated, salt, pepper, one teaspoonful of made mustard, one table- 
spoonful <>f catsup and a lump of butter ; knead all together like 
sausage meat, make into cakes, dip them in the . yolk of an egg, 
beaten, then in grated bread, and fry a light brown. — Mrs. Jesse 
Williams. 

TURKEY SCOLLOP. 

Cut the meat from what is left from a cold, boiled or roasted 
turkey, take out the gristle and chop very fine, put in the bottom 
of a buttered pudding dish a layer of crackers or bread crumbs, 
moisten slightly with milk, then put a layer of the minced turkey 
with bits of stuffing, pepper, salt and small pieces of butter, another 
layer of crackers, wet with milk, and so on till the dish is nearly 
full of the alternate layers ; before putting on the last layer pour in 
the gravy left from the turkey; should there not be enough, dilute 
it with hot water, adding Worcestershire sauce, catsup and butter ; 
have ready a crust of cracker ciumbs, soaked in warm milk sea- 
soned with salt and beaten up light with two eggs, it should be just 
thick enough to spread smoothly over the scollop ; put bits of 
butter plentifully over it and bake, covering with a deep dish to 
keep the steam in ; remove the cover a few minutes before serving ; 
a large pudding dish full will be cooked in three-quarters of an hour. 
— Mrs. Will Stockbridge. 



THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 39 

YANKEE FORK AND BEANS. 

Put the quantity of beans wished on the stove in a kettle of cold 
water, change the water two or three times for fresh while boiling ; 
boil until the skins will crack open when blown open, put a little 
soda in the last water, when parboiled enough, take an earthen 
crock, into which put the beans, place a piece of salt pork ( fresh 
can be used if youhave no salt), which has been scored across the 
top, in the center, pressing it down into the beans: allow about a 
pound to a quart of the dried beans, put in a tablespoonful of mo- 
lasses ; \i fresh pork is used, salt enough to season; fill up with 
water and set in the oven ; bake from five to six hours steadily, 
keeping the beans covered with water all the time. — Mrs. B. H. 
Kimball. 

A RELISH FOR TEA- 

Dry bread chopped fine, moistened with an egg, and seasoned 
with butter, pepper, sage and salt, then baked a short time, makes 
a nice relish for lea. — Laura K. 

OYSTER PIE. 

Make a rich crust, roll out twice as thick as for fruit pie for the 
top crust, the ordinary thickness for the lower; line a pudding dish 
with it and fill with crusts of dry bread or light crackers. Butter 
the edges of the dish that you may lift the upper crust without 
breaking ; cover the mock pie with the thick crust ornamented 
heavily at the edges, that it lie down better and bake ; cook the 
oysters as for a stew, old) breaking into them, at the last, two eggs 
and thickening with a spoonful of fine cracker crumbs or rice flour; 
they should cook but live minutes, or just warmed through and 
time them, so that the crust will he baked just in season to receive 
them, lift the top crust, pour on the smoking hot oysters, seasoned 
with butter, pepper and salt, and send to the table hot. — Mignon. 

FRIED OYSTERS. 

beat up two or three eggs in a cup and rasp bread crumbs on a 
plate with sweet herbs powdered, and lemon peel : dry the oysters 
as much as possible, dip them in the egg and cover them with the 
crumbs ; fry in plenty of butter. — Miss E. Ray. 



40 THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 

A LA MODE BEEF. 

Take a piece of the round of beef weighing about ten or twelve 
pounds, tie it up with a strong string in the form of a round, take 
half a tablespoonful of pepper, one of salt, one of ground cloves 
and two of sugar, rub these all over the meat the night before it is 
to be cooked, make a dressing of half a loaf of baker's bread, two 
tablespoonfuls of sweet herbs, one of cloves, one'of salt, half a one 
of pepper and two eggs, well together, make holes in your meat 
about two inches apart, fill up with the dressing and sew up, stick 
an onion full of the cloves, put into the pot and add two quarts of 
water— one of water and one of red wine makes it nicest — place 
skewers in the pot about two inches from the bottom, lay your beef 
on them, cover closely and stew gently, turn the meat two or three 
times while cooking, skim the fat from the water the meat is boiled 
in, thicken a little and use for gravy. — Mrs. Sarah R. 

TURKEY ROAST. 

Lay slices of pickled pork over the breast and under the wings, 
over this spread a paste made of flour and water, roast in the oven, 
baste as usual, remove this cover ten or fifteen minutes before tak- 
ing the fowl from the oven. — Mrs. N. B. Young. 

OYSTER TOAST. 

Remove the crusts from three slices of bread, cut each slice into 
two oblong pieces, and toast and butter them. Place the oysters 
on the fire with their juice. As soon as heated remove the oysters 
and set the liquid back again; stir one large tablesponful of butter, 
and one of flour, rubbed smothly together, let it boil five minutes 
remove from the fire, add seasoning, yolks of two eggs well beaten, 
stirred in rapidly, then the oysters chopped fine, spread the mixture 
over the toast and set in the oven to brown. Is nice for supper. — 
L. K. 

BOILED HAM. 

A ham has an excellent flavor if boiled as follows : Before cook- 
ing soak well in vinegar and water, then boil in water with heads 
of celery, two or three turnips, some of onions (if wished) and a 
handful of sweet herbs, put the ham in cold water and let it heat 
very gradually; allow an hour's boiling to every four pounds. 



THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 41 

TO IMPROVE SA USAGE MEAT. 

To three pounds of sausage meat add two eggs and dried bread 
crumbs enough to work into balls and fry as usual. — Mrs. O. B. 
. Laurance. 

FRENCH TOAST. 

Beat up two eggs well, put into one pint of milk, cut a loaf of 
stale baker's bread in slices, home-made can be used, but is not so 
nice, dip them in the egg and milk, in which a little salt has been 
put, lay the slices one upon another and let it stand several hours ; 
if wished for breakfast, prepare it the night before; if for dinner, 
in the morning ; if for tea, at noon ; fry in butter and serve hot. — 
Mrs. B H. Kimball. 

I 

MILK TOAST. 

Toast six slices of bread nicely ; place a quart of milk over the 
fire with a piece of butter the size of an egg and sail when boiling, 
stir in a large tablespoonful of flour which has been smoothly beaten, 
Dip the bread in until softened. — Ella K. 

BEEF OLIVES. 

Take a slice of the round of beef about an inch thick, beat it 
with a rolling pin to the thickness of half an inch, and cut it into 
four inch squares. Have ready some dressing made of beef, a 
little salt pork, one onion chopped very fine, one cup of bread 
crumbs, pepper, salt, cloves and sweet marjoram, mix this all up 
with an egg ; put it in to the pieces of steak and sew them up in 
the form of olives. Lay them in a tin pan, water and butter, 
sprinkle a little flour over them, and set them in the oven.- When 
half done, baste them with butter. They require about twenty 
minutes cooking. Dish them, add to the gravy half a cup of boil- 
ing water, a small piece of butter, a little flour, and a little catsup, 
if wished, (rive this one boil and pour over the olives when ready 
pi send to the tabic. — Sarah R. 



42 THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 

HAM OMELETS, 

Take cold fried ham and mince very fine; to each tablespoonful 
of minced ham, add one egg. Put considerable butter into the fry- 
ing pan, heat it hot, turn in the mixture, stirring until it begins to 
thicken. Then let it stand to brown, lap it half over, slip it on to 
a dish and serve hot. — Mrs. Wright. 



SOUPS. 



Tie foundation of all soups is uncooked meat. Cut it in small 
pieces, breaking the bones in pieces ; put on in cold water without 
salt and heat slowly, keep it covered and do not add salt until the 
meat is thoroughly done, as it has a tendency to harden the fibres 
and restrain the juices of the meat; strain through a colander, if 
wished still clearer, through a hair sieve or coarse lace; the hag 
should not be squeezed. Most soups are better the second day 
than the first, removing the fat then that rises. Care should be 
taken to skim all kinds of soup, especially those made of fresh meat, 
the scum rises very thick just before it boils. One quart of water 
to a pound of meat is a good rule ; if it boils away add more. 

TOMATO SOUP. 

Two and a half pounds of veal, one gallon water, two quarts 
fresh tomatoes peeled and cut up fine ; boil the meat to shreds, and 
the water down to two quarts ; strain again and stir in a tablespoon- 
ful of butter with a teaspoonful of white sugar before serving. — 
Laura K. 

TOMATO SOUP. 

One dozen tomatoes pared and sliced, three quarts of water, one 
quarter pound of butter, one pint of cream, half a teaspoonful of 
soda, season with salt ; canned tomatoes < an be used in place of 
fresh. — Mrs. Caddie Chapman. 

i 



THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 43 

VEGETABLE SOUP- 

Three onions, three carrots, four turnips, one small cabbage, one 
bunch of celery, one pint of stewed tomatoes ; chop all the vege- 
tables, except tomatoes ami cabbage, very finely, and set over the 
fire, with rather more than three quarts of cold water; they should 
simmer gently for half an hour, when the cabbage should be added, 
having previously been parboiled and chopped up ; in fifteen min- 
utes mftre put in the tomatoes and a bunch of sweet herbs and give 
all a lively boil of twenty minutes; rub through a colander, return 
the soup to the fire, stir in a good tablespoonful of butter with pep- 
per and salt ; add half a cup of cream if you have it, thickened with 
corn starch ; let it boil up once and it is read)- for the table. — 
Mrs. S. D. K. 

OYSTER SOUP. 

Pint of water, one of milk, one quart of oysters or one cin. Put 
them all together in a sauce pan ; heat but not boil, season with 
salt, pepper and quarter of pound of butter. If wished thicker, 
remove the oysters and take one tablespoonful of flour, beat up 
smoothly and stir in while boiling, and it will thicken to the con- 
sistency of cream; pour over the oyster and serve hot. — Aunt 
Sarah. 

copy soup. 

One large fowl cut in pieces, one dozen ears of green corn, boil 
the chicken in a gallon of water until tender; if tough the boiling 
must be slow ami long, then cut the corn from the cob and put into 
the pot and stew very gently one hour, remove the chicken with a 
cup of the liquid, if you wish to make other use of the meat, set 
this aside, reason the corn soup with pepper, salt and parsley, 
thicken, boil up once and serve without straining. A fricassee can 
be made of the chicken, unless it is boiled to rags, by beating up 
an egg and a tablespoonful of butter, adding this to the cup of 
reserved liquor, from which the corn must be strained ; boil for a 
moment, thicken with flour, throw in a little chopped parsley, pep- 
per and salt, pour, while hot, over the chicken. — Miss May E. 



44 THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 

BE&N SOUP. 

Take a soup bone with plenty or marrow in it, have it well 
cracked, put it on to boil in one pot, while in another put on three 
pints or two quarts of beans; as you need more water in the beans 
dip it from the pot containing the bone, and when you put on fresh 
water put in the pot with the bone ; at last take the bone out and 
pour all the liquor into the beans. We put it on early in the 
morning and cook till dinner (5 o'clock) slowly. It is always 
much better the day after it is cooked. — Mrs. I. G. Kimball. 

VErtL ttND SrtGO SOUP. 

Two and a half pounds of veal, one quarter pound of pearl sago, 
one pint of milk, four eggs, three quarts of water, put the veal, 
chopped fine, into the water and bod for two hours, till the liquid 
is reduced about one-half; strain out the meat through a coarse 
cloth and put the soup again over the fire, meanwhile the sago 
should be washed and soaked half an hour in water enough to 
cover it, stir it into the strained broth and boil, stirring often to 
prevent lumping or scorching, half an hour more, heat the milk to 
boiling, beat the yolks of the eggs very light, mix with the milk 
gradually, as in making boiled custard and pour, stirring all the 
time, into the soup, season with pepper and salt, boil up once to 
cook the eggs, and serve. Should it be too thick after putting in 
the sago, thin with boiling water; should be the consistency of 
custard. This makes a rich but very nice soup. — Laura Kimball. 

POTATO SOUP. 

A dozen mealy potatoes, two onions, if wished, one pound salt 
pork, three quarts of water. Boil the pork in the water for one 
and a half hours, then take it out, and take the potatoes, which 
being peeled and sliced should lie in cold water for half an hour, 
throw them into the pot with the chopped onions, cover and boil 
three-quarters of an hour, stirring often, beat in a tablespoonful of 
butter and a cup of cream or milk in which has been mixed a well 
beaten egg, add it carefully, a little at a time, stir while it heats to 
a boil, then serve. — Mrs. F. H. Hall. 



THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 45 

CsiLFS HE&D OR MOCK TURTLE SOUP. 

( >ne calf's head, four pig's feet, prepare it the day before it is 
served, clean the head and feet nicely, cover them with a gallon of 
water, let them boil until the flesh will slip easily from the bones, 
take out the head and let the feet boil while you take the meat from 
the head, set aside to cool a teacup of the fatty portions which lie 
on the top of the head and cheeks, which, when cold, should be 
cut in small squares, (hop the rest of the meat with the tongue, 
season, as wished, with herbs and spices and return to the pot, 
when the flesh falls from the feet take out the bones, leaving the 
gelatinous meat. Let it boil together slowly without removing the 
cover, for two hours, then take it out and set it away until the next 
day. An hour before dinner set the stock on to warm, removing 
the fat on the top, if not wished so rich. When it boils, strain 
carefully and drop in the meat you have leserved, with some force- 
meat balls. To prepare these, rub the yolks of two hard-boiled 
eggs to a paste, adding gradually the brains to moisten them, also 
a little butter and salt, mix with these two eggs beaten very light, 
flour your hands and make this paste into very small balls, throw 
them into the soup five minutes before you take it off the fire, stir 
in a large tablespoonful of browned flour, rubbed smooth, in a little 
cold water, let it boil up once, then serve, add juice of a lemon if 
wished. It should not boil more than an hour the first day. — 
Mrs. W. P. R. 

NOODLES FOR EIGHT OR TEN PERSONS. 

Four eggs, eight tablespoonfuls of milk and flour enough to roll 
out, and keep adding flour till it becomes a fine paste, then cut in 
strips and let it become a little dried before using. — Mrs. Carrie 
Douglass. 

SPONGE NOODLES. 

The whites of three eggs beaten to a stiff froth, then stir the 
yolks in very slowly, then three teaspoonfuls of sifted flour and a 
little salt. The whole mass is at once put in the soup and boiled a 
few minutes on both sides, and carry with the soup to the table and 
cut into pieces. — Mrs. D. 
6 



46 THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 

DUMPLINGS. 

One quart of flour, half pint of milk or water, butter the size of 

an egg, two teaspoonfuls of cream tartar, put dry in the flour, one 

teaspoon ful of soda in the milk or water, or three teaspoonfuls of 

baking powder in the flour, mix well together and drop into the 

^soup while boiling. — Mrs. Sarah J?. 

BEEF SOUP. 

For a rich soup, allow three-quarters of a pound of beef to a 
person, if not, half a pound, let it boil slowly, using one-third mor e 
water than you want soup, adding a little salt after it has been well 
skimmed, and a little rice or sago ; if too rich, occasionally skim 
the fat off. When the meat is done take it out before putting in 
the noodles or dumplings. Let it boil three hours. To make it in 
less time chop the meat and mix three spoonfuls of flour in butter 
the size of an egg, put it in the bottom of the soup kettle, allowing 
it to become a light brown, put your meat that has been cut up and 
a small onion cut up in it, in the butter and flour, stir this a little 
while and then add as much water as you want for soup. Let it be 
covered closely and boil an hour. A little celery added while boil- 
ing and a little mace, when done, is considered by some an improve- 
ment. — Mrs. Carrie Douglass. 

VERY GOOD SOUP 

May be made with very little expense. In the winter you can keep 
cold meat and poultry bones several days, until you have enough 
to make a nice stock, or the water that mutton, chicken or turkey 
is boiled in. Let it stand in an earthern jar and it will keep in" 
cold weather two or three days. 

VERMICELLI SOUP. 

Put a shin of veal, one onion, two carrots, two turnips and a little 
salt, into four quarts of water. Boil this three hours; add two 
cups of vermicelli, and boil it an hour and a half longer. Before 
serving take out the bone and vegetables. — Mrs. M. 



THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 47 

MUTTON BROTH. 

Boil a shoulder of mutton in four quarts of watef two hours. 
Add one onion, two turnips, two carrots cut fine, one tablespoonful 
of salt and one cup of rice. Boil this an hour and a half; cut a 
little parsley and put it in five minutes before dishing. — Mrs. B.H. 

COLD BEEF BONE, PIECES OF STEAK, ETC. 

Put into a pot with vegetables and three or four quarts of water. 
Boil gentl}' three or four hours, then strain it all out, and put back 
into the pot. Mix a tablespoonful of flour with water and stir in ; 
let it boil ten minutes. Cut toast fine and put in. 



SAUCES FOR MEAT. 



DRAWN BUTTER OR EGG SAUCE. 

Put half pint of water on the stove, rub quarter of a pound of 
butter in a large spoonful of flour, when the water boils, stir it and 
let it boil a few minutes, season with salt and parsley if wished. For 
egg sauce make the same and add one or two eggs boiled hard and 
chopped. 

BREAD SA UCE FOR ROAST TURKEY. 

Simmer a sliced onion in one pint of milk till tender, strain and 
pour over one cup of bread crumbs. Let it soak half an hour, beat 
smooth, then add pepper and salt to taste, and a half cup of butter 
or the gravy from the dripping pan, stir well; if too thick add a 
little boiling water. 

CELERY SAUCE FOR MEAT OR FOULS- 

Boil two heads of celery in salted water until tender, drain and 
cut into small bits, thicken a teacup of the gravy in which the meat 
of fowls were boiled or baked, with a tablespoonful of flour, add a 
tablespoonful of butter and a little salt ; stir and beat until smooth, 
put in the celery, heat a little but not boil, serve as gravy or pour 
over the meat or fowls. 



48 THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 

SAUCE FOR MEAT OR FOWLS. 

Chop two hard boiled eggs and the livers of the chickens fine, 
add water, butter, pepper and salt, a little flour wet up and strained 
in if wished thicker. 



PIES. 

Raised pies should have a quick oven ; no pie should have water 
put in till just before being put into the oven. Pastry requires a 
moderate heat. A teacup of lard to a quart of flour will make good 
common crust ; this quantity will make two large pies. If you 
wish to save sugar in the use of gooseberries, rhubarb, etc., you 
can add a little soda without in the least affecting the flavor, if you 
do not add too much. In ordinary sized pie or pudding as much 
may be added as would cover a five cent piece, [f you wash the 
upper crust with milk just before putting them in the oven they will 
make a beautiful brown. In fruit pies it is a good idea to fold the 
upper crust underneath the under to retain the juice. 

SILVER PIE. 

Peel and grate one large white potato into a deep plate, add the 
juice and grated rind of one lemon, the beaten white of an egg, one 
teacup of white sugar, one teacup cold water. Pour into a nice 
under crust and bake. When done hav« ready the beaten white of 
three eggs, half a teacup of powdered sugar, a few drops of rose 
water. Pour over the pie, return to the oven to brown lightly. 
When ready, lay a few lumps of currant jelly on top. Cool before 
eating. — Aunt Mary. 

GOLD PIE. 

Take one lemon, grate the peel and squeeze the pulp and juice 
into a bowl — be sure to remove every seed — to which add one tea- 
cup of sugar, one of new milk, one tablespoonful of corn starch, 
the yolks of three eggs well beaten. Bake without an upper crust. 
Beat the white of three eggs to a stiff froth, sweeten, and when the 
pie is done pour over the top and return to the oven to stiffen. — 
Mrs. F. H. Hall. 



THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 49 

APPLE PUDDING PIE. 

One quart flour, three teaspoonfuls baking powder, one-half 
cup butter, little salt, mix thoroughly, moisten with sweet milk, 
until a dough is formed, line a deep baking pan with it and fill 
with tart apples, cut in half.round side up, sprinkle with flour, sugar 
and butter, and fill with water, bake until the apples are soft, to be 
eaten with cream and sugar. Can be made also with ordinary 
pie crust. — Mrs. M. Bieber. 

APPLE CHEESE PIE. 

Six apples stewed and pressed through a colander, add the yolks 
of three eggs, a little lemon juice, one-quarter pounds(or less )of butter 
beater to a (ream, sweeten and bake with no upper crust, beat and 
sweeten the whites of the eggs and place on top after the pie is 
baked, replace in the oven and brown lightly. — Mrs. Bieber. 

ORANGE PIE. 

Two oranges, eight tablespoonfuls of sugar, four eggs, two-thirds 
of a tumbler of milk, beat the yolks, sugar, grated peel of the 
oranges, (being careful not to grate off any of the white part as it 
will make it bitter) add the juice and milk, stir well and set in the 
oven to bake, with no upper crust, beat the whites of the eggs to a 
froth, add four, tablespoonfuls of pulverized sugar, as soon as the 
pie is done cover with the frosting and brown lightly in a quick 
oven. — Mrs. E. O. Poole. 

POTATO CRUST. 

One teacup of cream to six good sized potatoes, boiled and 
mashed fine, add salt and flour enough to roll, must be handled as 
little as possible. 

CRUST FOR MEAT PIE OR FRUIT COBBLERS- 

One quart of flour, three tablespoonfuls of lard, two and a half 
cups of milk, one teaspoonful of soda wet with hot water and stirred 
into the milk, two of cream tarter sifted into the dry flour or three 
of baking powder instead of soda and cream tarter, one teaspoon- 
ful of salt, work up quickly taking care not to get too stiff. — Mrs. 
Sarah A'. 



50 THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 

TART CRUST. 

One cup of lard, one tablespoonful of white sugar, the white of 
one egg, three tablespoon fuls of water, flour enough to roll on. — 
Mrs. Ad die Howard. 

COM M OK PIE OR VST. 

One heaping handful of flour, one tablespoonful of lard or butter 
will make one small pie. — Mrs. D. B Sttope. 

RICH PUFF PASTE. 

Three quarts of flour, half pound of lard and one pound of but- 
tor. — Mrs. D. B. Strope. 

SWEET APPLE PIE. 

Bake sweet apples, grate them fine, mix with sweet milk, add a 
teacup of sweet cream or half a cup of butter, one egg to each pit, 
season as preferred and bake with one crust. 

SWEET POTATO PIE. 

Have ready a rich crust, lay in slices of boiled sweet potato and 
thin slices of mellow apple, spread thickly with sugar and butter, 
add spices, cover with a crust and bake nicely. — Mrs. Clara 
Chapman. 

MAPLE S YR UP PIE. 

One cup thick maple syrup, rind and juice of one lemon, one 
egg, one teaspoonful of flour, bake with two crusts, or nice syrup of 
any kind can be used with same ingredients, baked with crust 
underneath and narrow strips of crust laid in a net work over the 
top.— Mrs. K. P. Smith. 

ACID PIE. 

One cup of sugar, one teaspoonful of lemon extract, one scant 
teaspoonful of tartaric acid, two eggs, one tablespoonful of flour, 
beaten smoothly with water, and water enough to fill the pie. — 
Mrs. Ella Morganthaler. 



THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 5 1 

ICIJVG PIE. 

Make a good crust and bake, spread with any kind of jelly, beat 
the whites of four eggs and add one pound of sifted sugar, a little 
of tartaric acid, fill the plate with icing, put in the stove till slightly 
browned. Drop icing in for ornament, then dry it ; it must remain 
white. This makes two pies. — Mrs. Etta Joslyn. 

LEMOJV PIE. 

Grate the rinds of four lemons and squeeze the juice on the 
grated rind ; take nine eggs, leaving out the whites, one pound of 
white sugar, half pound of butter, one pint milk, beat together, add 
the milk last and divide in four pies, bake till <fonc ; beat the 
whites that are left, add sugar, spread over the tops of the pies and 
bake till light brown. — Mrs. John Hough. 

PIE PASTRY, 

One cup of water, four of flour, one of lard, mixed with flour, one 
of butter rolled in. — Mrs. N. B. Young. 

MIJVCE PIE. 

One pound each of beef, currants and raisins, three of apples, 
three of sugar, one and a half of citron, one tablespoonful of cin- 
namon, one nutmeg cloves if you like, half pint of brandy and 
cider until thin enough to bake, little salt. — Mrs. A. P. Kyle. 

ROYAL MINCE PIE. 

One quart best of sour apples, chopped fine, one pint good beef 
and half pint of kidney suet chopped fine, half pint chopped and 
half pint whole raisins, one pint canned currants, blackberries or 
raspberries, one and a half pints best brown sugar, three-quarters 
of a pint of boiled cider, half tablespoonful good cider vinegar, 
one tablespoonful of salt, one small bottle Royal extract for mince 
pies. — Mrs. T. M. Biddle. 

MINCE PIE. 

Three pounds of beef, five of apples, one tablespoonful of cinna- 
mon, one teaspoonful each of cloves and mace, two lemons chop- 
ped fine, one pound of sugar, one cup of molasses or more, if not 
sweet enough to your taste, one pound each of currants, raisins 
and citron, brandy to suit yourself, use cider or water to make it 
thin . — Mrs. Etta Joslyn. 



52 THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 

CREAM PIE. 

One pint sweet milk, boil and add three-quarters teacup of sugar, 
three-quarters of a tablespoonful of corn starch or flour, one tea- 
spoonful essen e of lemon, yolks of three eggs, mix well together 
with half a teacup of sweet cream and added to the boiling milk; 
bake the crust, then pour in the custard ; spread over the tops the 
whites of the eggs thoroughly beaten with half teacup of sugar and 
one teaspoonful essence of lemon ; place in the oven and brown 
lightly. Can be made without the sweet cream. — Mrs. Keil. 

LEMON PIE. 

Grate the lemon, add a small bit of butter, a large cup of sugar, 
the yolks of two eggs, one teaspoonful of flour, half cup of water, 
beat well together, bake in a rich paste without upper crust, beat 
the whites of the eggs with a little sugar into alight frosting, spread 
on the top of the pie, anfj brown lightly. — Mrs. Rodabaugh. 

LEMON PIE. 

One large lemon, yolk of one egg, one cup of sugar, one table- 
spoonful of flour, one cup of hike warm water in which dissolve a 
small piece of butter, and last add the white of the egg beaten 
well ; bake between two crusts. — Mrs. Dills. 

THREE LEMON PIES WITH ONE LEMON. 

Take one lemon, pare the outside off as thin as possible in small 
bits, add to it the juice with the pulp chopped fine, one and a half 
cups of sugar, half cup of flour with one large cup cold water, piece 
of butter half the size of an egg, one large cup hot water, three 
eggs, crust top and bottom. — Mrs. James Cairns. 

LEMON PIE AND RAISINS. 

One large cup of raisins chopped, one large cup of milk, three 
lemons, the rind grated, all the juice and pulp, sugar to your taste ; 
this makes three pies. — Mrs. John Hough. 



THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 53 

LEMON PIE. 

One cup hot water, one of sugar, one tablespoon ful of corn 
starch, juice and grated rind of one lemon ; cook for a few min- 
utes, add one egg, bake with top and bottom crust ; makes one 
pie. — Mrs. Nettie Lord. 

MOCK MINCE PIE. 

Six Boston crackers rolled fine, one-half cup of raisons chopped, 
one of sugar, vinegar, molasses each, of i l / 2 water, one-fourth of but- 
ter, one egg, all kinds of spice ; cook until thick. This cpiantity 
makes three pies. Very nice. — Mrs. W. H. Heath. 

POTATO PIE. 

One and a quarter pounds of potatoes, one-half pound of butter, 
six eggs, beaten separately, boil the potatoes, mash very fine, work 
the butter and sugar as for cake, then add the potatoes cool but not 
cold ; flavor with lemon and grate a little nutmeg on top. — Mrs. 
John Hough. 

CURRANT PIE. 

Four tablespoon fuls of currants, four of sugar, one of flour, five 
of water will make one pie. — Hattie Woodward. 

COCOANUT PIE— Very Nice. 

One cocoanut, half its weight in butter, its weight in sugar, 
juice and grated rind of one lemon, six eggs, one pint of milk, and 
milk of the cocoanut ; stir the butter and sugar together, then add 
the eggs, then the lemon and cocoanut ; put the milk in the last 
thing before baking. — Mrs. Rowland. 

COCOANUT PIE. 

One good sized cocoanut grated, one quart of milk sweetened 
like custard, piece of butter the size of a walnut in each pie; four 
eggs to the quart. — Mrs. Ryce. 

7 



54 THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 

GOG(MNUT PIE. 

One cocoanut grated, one cup of milk, four tablespoonfuls of su- 
gar, four eggs, make two pies,— Mrs. Jane Moyer. 

CUSTARD PIE. 

Four eggs to a quart of milk is the common rule, but very nice 
custard can be made with two eggs an ) two large spoonfuls of corn 
starch ; the corn starch should be mixed smoothly with milk and 
the eggs beaten up in it and then thinned out with more milk, 
sweeten and flavor to taste. — Mignon. 

dPPLLE PUDDING PIE. 

One quart stewed apples, one pint of cream, sugar to taste, four 
eggs, nutmeg, put the apples through a sieve ; milk instead of cream, 
with butter added, will answer, but not so nice. — Mrs. Henry Little. 

PUMPKIN PIE WITHOUT EGGS. 

One quart strained pumpkin, three pints of milk, two tablespoon" 
fuls of corn starch, two of flour, half a teaspoon ful of ginger, makes 
four pies. — Mrs. E. P. Howe. 

PUMPKIN PIE. 

One quart stewed pumpkin, pressed through a sieve, nine eggs, 
whites and yolks beaten separately, two quarts milk, one and a half 
cups of sugar, season to taste ; beat well together and bake with no 
upper crust ; a little butter improves it ; little salt. — -Mrs. B. H. 
Kimball. 

SQUASH PIE. 

Made like pumpkin pie with one more egg to a pie. 



THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. ^ 

SUBSTITUTE FOR LEMONS. 

Two teaspoon fuls of tartaric acid and three or four crackers 
crumbed and soaked, take the place or lemons. — Mrs. M. B. 

Huckleberries, or berries of a like character are improved by 
sprinkling in a few red currants or the juice of a lemon with them. 

GOOD AND CHEAP PIE CRUST. 

One quart sifted flour, one teaspoonful salt, one measure each of 
acid and soda (or two heaping teaspoons of acid and one moder- 
ately heaping teaspoonful soda,) of Horsford's Bread Preparation- 

mix thoroughly together while dry and sift ; then add cold sweet 
milk enough to make a stiff dough and roll out as usual ; use the 
"Pie Crust Glaze" on both the bottom and top crusts, by the fol- 
lowing recipe some prefer less of the acid and soda in pie crust. 
You can tell by trial. 

PIE CRUST GLAZE. 

To prevent the juice soaking through the crust and making it 
soggy, wet the crust with a beaten egg just before you put in the 
pie mixture. If the top of the pie is wet with the egg it gives it a 
beautiful brown. — L. K. 

MINCEMEAT-— Very Fine. 

Ten pounds of beef chopped fine, ten pounds of currants, ten 
pounds •of raisins, fifteen pounds brown sugar, two pounds of citron 
sliced fine, two pounds of suet, one peck of apples chopped fine, 
one dozen oranges grated without rind, one dozen lemons grated 
without rind, one large teaspoon of salt, one-fourth pound ground 
cloves, one-fourth pound ground mace, one-fourth pound ground 
nutmeg, one-fourth pound ground allspice, one-fourth pound cin- 
namon, less cloves and allspice. Pour in a gallon of (heap brandy 
in the above ; pack in jars and thin with cider before baking. — 
Mrs. John Hough. 



56 THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 



PUDDINGS. 



Baked, bread, Indian meal, or custard puddings require an oven 
with a moderate heat ; batter and rice, a quick oven. Always 
butter your pan or dish before putting them in. In boiling pud- 
dings put them in while the water boils, if boiled in tin, rub it over 
with butter first, if in a bag dip it first in boiling water, flour it well 
to prevent the pudding sticking to the cloth. The water must be 
kept boiling all the time. When done take it up, untie the string, 
wrap the cloth round the basin, lay your dish over it and turn the 
pudding out, take off the basin and cloth carefully. To cut a 
boiled pudding without making it heavy, warm the blade of the 
knife first. 

PEACH SAUCE, 

Take the juice from a can of peaches, add about as much water, 
sugar enough to sweeten, and a few raisins; boil ten minutes, then 
strain and add a few drops extract of almonds. 

KWESAUCE. 

To four large spoonfuls of sugar, add two of butter, one of flour, 
and stir to a cream in an earthen dish ; cut the white of one egg 
to a stiff froth and add to it, then pour into the dish one gill of 
boiling water, stirring rapidly ; set it where it will keep hot, but 
not boil. Season to taste. 

COLD Srt UCE. 

Four large spoonfuls of sugar, two of butter ; stir them to a cream 
and add the white of an egg beaten to a stiff froth. 

PUDDING SAUCE. 

One heaped teaspoonful of butter, five of sugar, mix well, add 
one egg well beaten and beat all together thoroughly with one glass 
of wine or brandy. When you sit down to dinner put the bowl 
containing the sauce on the top of a boiling tea-kettle. It must 
just melt and not cook, nor be stirred after it begins to melt. — 
Mrs. Jesse Williams. 



THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 



57 



FOdMSA UCE. 

One cup of sugar, two-thirds of butter, juice of one lemon ; beat 
this to a cream, place over the fire and stir in quickly one gill of 
water. — Mrs. C. M. Dawson. 

SOUR 8£ UCE. 

One cup of sugar, half cup of butter, half cup of vinegar, in 
which one tablespoonful of corn starch or flour has been stirred, 
set over the fire and pour in boiling water enough to make the right 
consistency ; flavor to taste. — Mrs. S. R. K. 

STRAWBERRY SAUCE. 

Crush strawberries thin, sweeten and beat up until they are light 
and frothy, add the white of an egg beaten to a stiff froth. — Mrs. 
F. H. Hall. 

SUET PUDDING. 

One cup of sour milk, one of molasses, one of suet, one of rais- 
ins, three of flour, one teaspoonful each of salt, soda and cloves, 
two of cinnamon, one nutmeg. Steam three hours or boil two and 
a half. — Mrs. John Hough. 

EGG CREAM PUDDING. 

One quart of milk, the yolks of four eggs, four tablespoon fuls 
corn starch, eight tablespoonfuls of sugar; make into a boiled 
custard ; beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth with eight table- 
spoonfuls of sugar flavored with lemon foi a frosting; flavor the 
custard with vanilla, pour into a pudding dis.li, put the frosting on 
top. Set in the oven to brown lightly. — Laura K. 

GELATINE PUDDING. 

Separate whites and yolks of four eggs, make a custard with yolks, 
a pint of milk and sugar to taste ; soak one-third of box of Cox 
Gelatine in a little cold water, then dissolve it with three-quarters 
of a cup of boiling water, when custard is cooled add the gelatine, 
water, and whites of eggs beaten to a stiff froth ; flavor with vanilla, 
stir all together and put in a mold or molds ; it will settle into 
three layers, is a very pretty pudding, tasting much like a Charlotte 
Russe. A pretty effect can be obtained by using Cox's pink gela- 
tine. — Miss Jessie Hough . 



5 8 THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 

si COLD BERRY PUDDING. 

One quart each of huckleberries, raspberries, blackberries, one 
pint of currants and one pound of sugar ; stew all together, cut in 
thin slices a stale loaf of bread, spread them with butter, cover the 
bottom of the dish with the slices, then add layers of the fruit and 
bread alternately until the dish is nearly full, then fill up with the 
fruit ; let it stand 3 or 4 hours. Serve with sugar and cream. — 
Laura K. 

PINEAPPLE PUDDING 

Peel the pineapple, taking care to get all the specks out, and 
grate it ; take its weight in sugar, and half its weight in butter, rub 
these to a cream and stir them into the apple ; then add five eggs 
and a cup of cream. It may be baked with or without a crust. — 
Mrs. B. H. Kimball. 

CUP CUSTARDS. 

One quart of milk, five eggs, one cup of sugar, little salt ; beat 
the whites and yolks separately, and add to the milk and sugar, 
bake in cups. Nice for dinner or tea ; flavor to taste, (this can be 
used for pie or pudding), when they are baked set the cups in a 
pan of hot water. Are nicer steamed than baked. — Mary K. 

COFFEE PUDDING OR CslKE. 

One cup of strong coffee, one cup butter, one cup sugar, one of 
syrup, one egg, four cups of flour, three teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder. Flavor to taste. Melt the butter, then put in the sugar 
and syrup, beat the egg to a stiff froth, and add the other ingre- 
dients. When used as pudding, make plain sauce. — Miss Belle 
Fierce. — Shi I oh . 

CHERRY PUDDING. 

Mix three tablespoonfuls of flour with one-half pint of milk, then 
add another half pint, tablespoonful melted butter, little salt, three 
well beaten eggs, a pound of cherries, from which the stones have 
been removed. Mix well, tie in a pudding-cloth which has been 
dipped in boiling water and then dredged thickly with flour. Put 
it into a large pot of boiling water, boil steadily for two hours 
closely covered. When done serve with sauce. — Aunt Sarah. 



THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 59 

CORN MEAL SUET PUDDING. 

One cup of beef suet chopped fine, one of sour milk, half a tea- 
spoonful of soda, one cup of molasses, two of corn meal, one tea- 
spoonful salt, pour into a two-quart pan, set into a steamer over 
boiling water and steam two hours, serve with butter. — Mrs. Pool. 

BROWN BE&VER. 

One cup chopped suet or pork, one of molasses, or half cup of 
molasses and half cup of sugar, one of sweet milk, one teaspoonful 
of soda, three-quarters each of nutmeg, cloves, allspice and cinna- 
mon, one cup raisins chopped fine, flour enough to make as stiff as 
fruit cake. Boil three hours.- -Augusta Hvtchinson and Mollie 
Kimball. 

STEAMED PUDDING. 

One cup of molasses, one of chopped pork, one of new milk, 
three of flour, one cup of raisins, two eggs, one teaspoonful of 
soda. — Mrs. Douglass. 

PLAIN STEAMED PUDDING. 

Three cups corn meal, two and a half of Graham flour, two- 
thirds of molasses, two teaspoonfuls soda, one quart of sour milk, 
salt sauce to suit yourself. — Mrs. Jesse Williams. 

UNCLE WILLMM'S PUDDING. 

One cup milk, half of sugar, one-quarter of butter, one egg, flour 
enough to make a stiff batter, two spoonfuls of baking powder, one 
cup of raisins, steam two hours and serve with liquid sauce. — Mrs. 
I. G. Kimball. 

PORCUPINE PUDDING. 

Make a sponge cake , after it is baked, put into a deep dish, pour 
over it a boiled custard, make of the yolks of four eggs and a quart 
of milk, put the whites of the eggs, well beaten, with a little sugar 
sprinkled in over the top ; set in the oven to dry, then take one- 
half pound of blanched almonds and split them, then stick them 
into the frosting as thickly as possible. — Mrs. Etta Joslyn. 



60 THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 

BLACK PUDDING. 

One cup sweet milk, one of molasses, half of sugar, a cup and a 
half of flour, six eggs, teaspoonful each of soda, ground cloves and 
cinnamon, put in pudding dish and steam one hour. — Mrs. C. 
Stanley. 

COCOANUT PUDDING. 

Make a custard with one quart of milk and four eggs, sweeten to 
taste, grate a cocoanut and stir it in the custard ; bake in a quick 
oven. — Mrs. F. H. Hall. 

COCOAJVUT PUDDIJVG-To be eaten cold. 

One quart of milk, four eggs, one teacup grated bread, one of 
sugar, one cocoanut grated, little salt, flavor to taste. Bake till 
done. — Mrs. John Hough. 

DELMONICO PUDDING. 

One pint of milk, three eggs, two tablespoonfuls of corn starch, 
two of sugar, little salt ; beat the yolks, sugar and corn starch to- 
gether, scald the milk and pour the mixture in, boil a moment, 
flavor to taste, beat the whites to a froth, add sugar, and place on 
the top, put in the oven to brown ; to be eaten cold. If wished 
larger, use one quart of milk and another tablespoonful of corn 
starch. — Mrs. Geo. Little. 

BIRD'S NEST PUDDING 

Pare and core six tart apples, fill them with sugar, place them 
around a dish, put over them a batter, composed of six ounces of 
flour, salt and three eggs, with one and a half pints of milk added 
by degrees; bake moderately for one hour. — Mrs. Jesse Williams. 

WINTHR OP HO USE PUDDING. 

Two cups of tapioca to a quart of water, soak it until it looks 
clear, about fifteen minutes, then set the pan on the stove and 
warm until it thickens, when pour it into the dish you wish to bake 
it in, in which have previously been placed apples, pared and 
cored ; bake an hour and a half; to be eaten with cream or milk 
and sugar. — Mrs. Henry Little. 



THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 6 1 

QUEEN OF PUDDINGS. 

One pint of nice bread crumbs, one quart of milk, one cup su- 
gar, the yolks of four eggs beaten, grated rind of one lemon, piece 
of butter the size of an egg, bake until done but not watery, whip 
the whites stiff and stir , in a teacup of sugar and the juice of the 
lemon, spread over the pudding, jelly, preserved fruit, jam or any 
idee fresh fruit ; put the whites of the eggs over this and place in 
the oven and brown lightly. Is best eaten with cold cream. — Mrs. 
Jesse Williams, Mrs. K, P. Smith, Mrs. Keil, and others. 

EVERY DpI Y PUDDING. 

Half loaf of stale bread soaked in a quart of milk, tour eggs, four 
tablespoonfuls of flour, a little fruit dried, or fresh, improves it ; 
steam three-quarters of an hour, serve with sauce made of butter, 
sugar and water, thickened with corn starch and flavored with lem- 
on. — . 1/rs. Bittinget . 

LOVE PUDDING. 

Five tablespoonfuls of flour, same of milk, five eggs, little salt, 
boil one quart of milk and stir in these ingredients ; bake fifteen 
minutes, eat with butter and sugar mixed together, flavored to taste 
or cream and sugar. — Mrs. Jesse Williams and Mrs. K. P. Smith. 

BREAD PUDDING WITHOUT MILK. 

Take five eggs well beaten, three slices of dry bread, cut in small 
pieces, little salt, one quart of water and half cup of raisins ; mix 
well together and bake in a buttered dish, serve hot with butter 
sauce, flavored to taste. — Mrs. T. R. Pickard. 

VIRGINIA PUDDING- 

One teacup of butter, one of sugar, one teaspoonful of soda, 
beaten together, then add one cup of molasses, two eggs, beaten 
separately and one pint of flour ; bake about an hour. — Mrs. Jesse 
Williams. 



62 THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 

COTTAGE PUDDING- 

One cup of sugar, two and a half tablespoonfuls of butter, one 
egg, one cup of sweet milk, one pint of flour, two tablespoonfuls of 
baking powder, flavor to suit ; to be eaten with liquid sauce. — Mrs. 
Ruthrauff and Jfrs. H ■ Hamilton. 

COTTAGE PUDDING. 

Half cup of sugar, one of water, one of flour, one egg, two tea- 
spoonfuls of baking powder. — Mrs. A. C. Keel. 

RICE PUDDING. 

Sweeten and flavor to taste, two quarts of milk, in which put a 
cup of rice. Set in the oven and let it cook slowly until the rice 
is soft, add raisins if liked. — Mrs. Hattie Chapman. 

BATTER PUDDING WITHOUT EGGS- 

One quart of flour, three spoonfuls of baking powder, one cup 
of shortening, little salt, milk or water enough for a stiff batter ; 
steam one hour and a half, serve with liquid sauce, stir in fruit if 
wished. — Mrs. Ann Kimball and Mrs. John Gilbert. 

BATTER PUDDING. 

One and a half pints of milk, four eggs, beaten separately, piece 
of butter the size of an egg, flour enough so that it will run from a 
spoon, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder ; steam one or one and 
a half hours. — Mrs. Geo. L. Little and Emma Hardy. 

TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

Put a cup of tapioca into a pint of milk, set it near the fire to 
swell, and stir it often ; then add a pint of cold milk, five eggs, two 
rups of sugar, a little salt and spice of any kind, a cup of raisins 
and a cup of currants may be used Bake it an hour and a h alf. 
—Mrs. B. H. Kimball. 

SAGO PUDDING. 

Rinse the sago in cold water, to one quart of milk add half pint 
of sago, stir it over a moderate fire until it thickens like starch, 
then take it from the fire, mix with it three pints of milk, a small 
cup of sugar, four eggs well beaten, one nutmeg, one teaspoonful of 
salt, the grated rind of one lemon, and one-quarter pound of seed- 
ed raisins ; bake three-quarters of an hour. — Mrs Etta Joslyn and 
Mrs. Will Joslyn. 



THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 63 

STALE C&ICE PUDDING. 

To one quart of milk add five eggs beaten lightly, put the cake 
spread with butter, on the top of the custard and bake twenty min- 
utes. — Mrs. Brown. 

SNOW BALLS. 

To one-third of a pound of rice allow a quart of sweet milk, boil 
the rice in one pint of water, when the water is absorbed add the 
milk, let it boil till quite tender, stir to prevent burning, put in 
flavoring just before taking it off, when soft put it in teacups, let it 
remain until cold, turn out on a dish and pour over it a stiff froth 
with a little sugar and juice of a lemon, and place on the top of 
each ball, with a little preserve 01 jelly in the centre. It can be 
moulded in a large dish instead of cups, il wished. — Mrs. 
Annie K. 

GROUND RICE PUDDING. 

Save from a quart of milk, half cup to mix, four tablespoonfuls 
of the rice, put the milk over the fire and when boiling* hot, add 
the rice and stir until it thickens, one cup of white sugar, four eggs, 
twelve almonds, blanched and pounded, with five drops of almond 
essence and little salt, bake till a spoon can be put into it and no 
milk appearance be seen. — Mrs. Cynthia Hill. 

GREEN CORN PUDDING. 

Eighteen ears of corn grated ; from eight to ten eggs, two quarts 
of milk, two tablespoonfuls of sugar, one of rolled cracker or flour, 
little salt and a small piece of butter. Bake in a buttered dish. — 
Mrs. Dr. Chapman. 

GREEJV CORN PUDDING. 

Grate twelve ears of corn, one quart of sweet milk, one-quarter 
pound of butter, four eggs, pepper and salt, bake in a buttered dish 
if wished omit pepper and add sugar to taste. — Mrs. W. C. 



64 THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 

POOR MAN'S PUDDING— Very Nice. 

One pint of molasses, two-thirds of a cup of suet, broken in small 
pieces, flour enough to make it a little stiffer than cup cake. One 
pint of cranberries, put in uncooked, two teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder, one of soda, spices to suit the taste, boil four hours in a 
bag or mold, can be steamed if preferred. — Kittie, Lillie and Emma 
Ha nix. 

QUICK MADE INDIAN PUDDING. 

Two quarts of sweet milk, beat until ready to boil, have two 
eggs well beaten with two heaping tablespoon fuls of sugar, put a 
small piece of butter and a little salt into the boiling milk, sprinkle 
with the hand and stir in a teacup of Indian meal, stir in the eggs 
quickly, bake quickly in a hot oven. Raisins improve it. — 
• • L 'ariad. 

BLACK PUDDING. 

( )ne cup of molasses, half of butter, one of milk, two of flour, one 
egg, half a teaspoonful of soda, fruit and spices, steam two hours. 
— Mrs. Clarkson. 

BAKED INDIAN PUDDING. 
% 

Dip out a teacup full from a quart of sweet milk, scald the rest 
and stir five heaping tablespoon fuls of sifte'j Indian meal, into the 
hot milk, adding a pinch of salt, a little nutmeg, one tablespoonful 
of ginger, two tablespoon fuls of sugar, half cup of molasses and last 
the (nip of cold milk ; bake slowly two hours. Serve with sauce. 
— Mrs. T. M. Biddle. 

LEMON PUDDING. 

Two cups of loaf sugar, one-half butter, rubbed together, one of 
milk, six eggs, one large lemon, grate the rind, bake in a paste. — 
Mrs. John Hough. 

PEACH COBBLER. 

Make a rich biscuit crust, put it rolled thick around the dish, 
put in a layer of peaches, then butter and sugar, and very little 
flour, then peaches and so on till the dish is full, cover with a thick 
crust, cut a slit in the center and pour in boiling water until full, 
bake until you think it done.— Mrs. B. U. Kimball 



THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 65 

BAKED INDIAN PUDDING. 

Make with milk and Indian meal a pint of tolerably think mush, 
let it boil till thoroughly scalded and set away to cool, when cool 
add two well beaten eggs, a small cup of sugar or molasses, one 
tablespoonful of ginger, half teaspoonful of cinnamon, little salt, 
fill up a two-quart basin with cold milk and mix thoroughly, set it 
in the oven, and when well crusted over stir the crust in, adding a 
few raisins and about half a cup of butter, serve with liquid sauce, 
Annie K. 

DRIED PEACH ROLE 

Make dough as for biscuit, roll out and spread with peaches, 
previously stewed, roll up and place a wet cloth closely around it, 
steam three-quarters of an hour. Stewed cranberries or any kind 
of fruit can be used in the same manner. 

Saiue for it. — Piece of butter the size of an egg, three table- 
spoonfuls of sugar, one of flour, one pint of the water in which the 
peaches were stewed. — Mrs. Martha Bieber. 

APPLE DO WW. 

Baked like peach cobbler, using if wished, molasses instead of 
sugar and spices, break the crust in when served. 

PARADISE PUDDING. 

Three apples chopped fine, half cup of currants, half of sugar, 
two of bread crumbs, three eggs, grated rind and juice of half a 
lemon, little salt, boil one and a half hours, serve with liquid sauce. 
— Mrs. F. H. Hall. 

TIPSY PUDDING. 

Cut stale sponge cake into thin slices ; spread it with currant 
jelly or preserves, put two pieces together like sandwiches and lay 
them in a dish, make a soft custard, pour over it while hot. let it 
cool before serving. — Mrs. Etta Joslyn. 



66 THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 

PLUM PUDDING. 

One and a halfloaves of baker's bread, two pounds each of 
brown sugar and raisins, half of chopped suet, three teaspoonfulls 
of ground cloves, eight eggs well-beaten ; cut the bread in thin 
slices the night before and cover with sweet milk ; in the morning 
mash your bread well and add eggs, etc., and bake three hours in a 
slow oven, after half an hour's baking stir with a spoon to prevent 
the fruit from settling; serve with brindy sauce. This is good for 
weeks if kept in a cool place. Is best warmed when wanted. — 
Mrs. J. B. Mors,: 

CHERB YPOT PIE. 

Roll out crust enough to line the pot around the sides, stone the 
cherries, place a layer on the bottom with half pint of water, sugar, 
then a layer of the crust and so on alternately until the size wished, 
put a layer of crust on top with a slit in the center ; cover closel) 
and boil three-quarters of an hour. Peach or apple can be made 
in the same manner. — Mrs. John Gilbert. 

BA KE1) . IPPLE D UMPLIjVG. 

First prepare apples ; take one quart sifted flour, three teaspoon- 
fuls baking powder, well mixed with flour while dry, a little salt, 
shortening the size of two eggs ; make dough soft with water, cover 
the apples and bake quickly in a hot oven ; serve with butter, 
cream or brandy sauce. — .Mrs. Hoagland. 

H I r C 1 KLEBERR 1 " P UDDIJVG. 

One quart of flour, two teaspoonfuls of cream tartar, one of soda, 
half cup of sugar, pint and a half of berries, dissolve the soda in 
water enough to make as stiff as cream tartar biscuit, steam one and 
a half hours, this is nice for any kind of berries. — Sadie Kimball. 



THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 67 

EVE' SPUDDING. 

Half pound of suet, half teaspoonful of salt, half pound of pared 
and chopped apples, half pound of flour, half pound of raisins 
dredged with flour, five eggs, one nutmeg, glass of brandy, < hop 
and mix the suet and apple, beat the sugar into the yolks of the 
eggs, mix all together, putting in the whites just before plating in 
the oven, bake two hours. — Mrs. Jesse Williams. 

APPLE DUMPLINGS. 

Pare, quarter and core some tart apples and half fill a three-pint 
dish and nearly cover them with water, make a crust of one pintof 
flour, one teaspoonful of (ream tarter and one-half of soda, one cup 
of milk, roll out and cover the apples, place it on top of the stove 
and another dish the same size over it, and let it steam half an 
hour. For sauce, take two large spoonfuls of butter mixed with 
one spoonful of flour, add one pint ofboiling water, stirquickly and 
let it boil, add two-thirds of a cup of sugar, half a nutmeg and a 
little salt. — Mrs. Nellie Matoon. 

SNO W PUDD TNG.- Very Nice. 

Half cup of Gelatine, cover it with cold water and soak an hour, 
add one cup of sugar, one teacup boiling water, the juice of one 
lemon and the whites of three eggs, beatea to a stiff froth, beat the 
whole together (after stirring the gelatine thoroughly) serve with 
boiled custard made with the ydlks of the eggs and a pint of milk, 
serve cold. — Mrs. Burnham, Mrs. N. B. Young and Miss Emma 
Hardy. 

FIG PUDDING. 

Half pound of figs, half cup of butter, half cup of bread crumbs, 
one tablespoonful of ginger, three eggs, one cup of milk, chop the 
figs, add cinnamon, nutmeg and wines if you like, boil three hours, 
to be eaten with sauce, — Miss C. B. 



68 THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 

BLOW-UPS. 

Four cups of sweet milk, four cups of flour, four eggs, salt, bake 
in cups, repeat or lessen the quantity as you like; this makes six- 
teen. Bake about fifteen minutes in a hot oven ; to be eaten with 
liquid sauce.- -Mrs. M. J. Graff. 

APPLE TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

Wash a coffeecup of tapioca and put in to soak over night in a 
pint of water, then acid one pint of fine chopped apples, a little 
sugar, salt and little water, flavor to taste. — Mrs. Hattic II. Little 
and Mrs. Hankins. 

ENGLISH PLUM PUDDING. 

Beat four eggs until light, add one teaspoonful of salt, one pound 
of chopped suet, then take three tablespoonfuls of sugar, two wine- 
glasses of brandy and the same of milk, one nutmeg, cloves and 
cinnamon, then add one pound each of currants and raisins, one- 
quarter pound of citron and one pound of flour ; boil five hours. — 
Mrs. Robert Lowry. 

ENGLISH PLUM PUDDING. 

One pound dried bread crumbs, soaked in a pint of milk, one 
pound of beef suet chopped fine, one of currants, one of raisins, 
one pound of brown sugar, one of flour, three ounces citron, one 
nutmeg grat d 5 nine eggs, one and a half pints of brand}- — soak 
raisins in the brandy before mixing. Steam six hours. — Mrs. A T . 
B. Young. , 



THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. • 69 

CUSTARDS, CREAMS AND 
VARIETIES. 



For these, eggs should never be beaten in tin, but in stdhe or 
earthern ware. Beat whites and yolks separately. Be sure they 
are fresh. 

COFFEE CUSTARD. 

Take a large cup of fresh ground coffee, break an egg into it, 
mix it up well, put it iato a coffee pot with a pint of boiling water. 
Boil it five minutes, add a cup of cold water and let it stand ten 
minutes. Turn it off very clear into a saucepan, add a pint of 
cream and give it one boil. Have ready eight eggs well beaten, 
one and a half large cups of sugar. Turn the coffee and cream, 
boiling hot, on the eggs, stirring all the time. Put the custard into 
a pitcher, set it into boiling water, and stir it all the time till it 
thickens. Served in cups to eat cold. — "Car/at/." 

SNOW CREAM. 

Beat the whites of two eggs tn a stiff froth, stir in two table- 
spoons of sugar, flavor with rose water or lemon, add half a pint 
thick cream. So to be eaten with fruit or sweet milk. — Mrs. M. 
Bieber. 

RASPBERRY BLANC MANGE. 

Stew nice fresh raspberries, strain off the juice and sweeten to 
taste, place over the fire, and when it boils stir in corn starch, wet 
in cold water, allowing two tablespoonfuls of corn starch for each 
pint of juice. Continue stirring until sufficiently cooked. Pour 
into molds wet in cold water and set away to cool. Eat with 
cream and sugar. Other fruits can be used in the same way.-— 
Laura K. 



70 THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 

ORANGE FLOAT. 

One quart of water, juice and pulp of two lemons, one coffeecup 
of sugar ; when boiling add four tablespoonftfls of corn starch, let 
it boil fifteen minutes, stirring all the time. When cold pour it 
over four or five peeled and sliced oranges, and over the top spread 
the beaten whites of three eggs sweetened and flavored with vanilla. 
— Laura K. 

MOSAIC. 

Six large apples, one pint of water, half pound of loaf sugar, rind 
of one lemon, six drops of cochineal, half ounce of gelatine, white 
of one egg. Pour over the gelatine half gill of the water and soak 
for half an hour. Pare the apples, remove the core without break- 
ing the shape. Put the sugar in a saucepan with the lemon rind, 
pour over it the rest of the water an < stir until boiling. Cook the 
apples in this till tender, then remove without breaking, and place 
in a glass dish. Put the gelatine into the syrup that remains until 
it is melted, add the cochineal, strain and set in a cool place to 
harden. Then cut it up in rough pieces and scatter among the 
apples, placing over it the white of an egg beaten up to a stiff froth. 
— Mrs. Robinson. 

SAGO CREAM. ■ 

Take a deser f spoonful of sago and boil it in one pint of water, 
to a jelly ; add a teacup of cream, let it boil again, beat up an egg., 
very light and pour the boiling sago on it, add sugar and flavoring 
to taste. 

AIM 0X1) CUSTARD. 

One pint of new milk, one teacup of white sugar, one-quarter 
pound of almonds blanched and pounded, with two spoonfuls of 
rose water. Into these ingredients stir the yolks of four eggs in a 
spider over a slow fire until as thick as cream, then remove it 
quickly to a deep dish, beat the whites of the eggs with a little 
sugar added and a few drops of brandy ; spread it over the custard. 
— Mrs. Etta Joslyn. 



THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 7 1 

CARAMEL CUTSARD. 

One quart of milk, four eggs, five tablespoon fuls of brown sugar 
burned and stirred in while boiling. — Mrs. John Hough. 

APPLE ISLAND. 

Pare and stew ten large apples, sift through a fine sieve, add one 
teacup of fine powdered sugar and the whites of four eggs beaten 
to a stiff froth, stir thoroughly until all are well mixed, take three 
pints of milk, the yolks of four eggs and one tea< up of sugar, boil 
slowly tor five minutes, flavor with vanilla, serve in dessert dishes 
same as floating island. — Mrs, Ella Morganthaler. 

APPLE SJVO W. 

Take one dozen good cooking apples, pare and core them, put 
in a steamer and steam until well done, then mash line; beat the 
whites of one dozen eggs to a stiff froth, mix well together apples, 
eggs, one pint of line white sugar, one teaspoonful of essence of 
lemon, put in glass dishes and dot it over with bits of jelly. It is 
beautiful to the eye and delicious to the taste. — Mrs. T. R. 
Pickard. 

TAPIOCA CREAM. 

Three tablespoonfuls of tapioca,' one quart of sweet milk, three 
eggs, soak the tapioca over night in a cup of the milk, in the morn- 
ing add the rest of the milk, putting it in a tin pail, set in boiling 
water, then add the beaten yolks of the eggs and sufficient sugar to 
sweeten, flavor with lemon or vanilla, cooking it like boiled cus- 
tard, when ready to serve beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth 
with three tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar and pour over it, set 
in the oven and brown lightly. — Mrs. Will Stockbridge. 

FRUIT CREAM. 

Lay in a dish, jam or fruit, take half an ounce gelatine dissolved 
in a little warm water, add one pint of rich cream, sweeten to taste, 
add a little salt, boil a tew minutes, when nearly cold pour over 
the fruit or jam, fruit of different colors, arranged tastefully, looks 
very pretty covered with cream. — Mrs. Clara C. 



72 THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 

VELVET CREAM- 

Set the pan in hot water over the fire, put in it one quart of sweet 
milk, three tablespoonfuls of sugar, four sheets of Cooper's isin- 
glass, separate four eggs, beat the yolks and stir into the milk until 
as thick as boiled custard, and be (archil it does not curdle, strain 
through a mosquito net and set away to cool. Before sending to 
the table stir in one-third of the whites of the eggs, stirring hard ; 
flavor with a tablespoonful of extract. Put the remainder of the 
whites over the top and grate nutmeg on it. — Mrs. Henry Little. 

VEL VET CREAM. 

One and a half pints of (team or new milk, half pint of wine, half 
pound of sugar, one ounce of gelatine, dissolve the gelatine in the 
wine over the fire and when quite cool mix in the other ingredients 
and pour into moulds. — Mrs. Jesse Williams. 

SJVO W CREAM. 

To one cup of cream add one of sugar, one egg well beaten, ex- 
tract of lemon, stir in fine snow until about as thick as ice cream, 
and eat like it. — Mrs. C. L. Smith. 

CHOCOLATE CREAM CUSTARD. 

Scrape one-quarter pound of the best chocolate, pour on it one 
spoonful of boiling water and let it stand by the fire until it is well 
dissolved, beat eight eggs very -light, omitting the whites of two, 
stir them by degrees into a quart of rich milk, alternately with the 
chocolate and three tablespoonfuls of white sugar, put the mixture 
into cups and bake ten minutes, beat up the whites you have re- 
served with a little sugar and place on the tops, then set in the 
oven again and brown lightly. — Estella Ray. 

ITALIAN CREAM. 

One-half box gelatine, one quart of milk, when dissolved add 
the yolks of three eggs with three tablespoonfuls of sugar, boil until 
as thick as soft custard, when, remove from the fire and stir in the 
whites of three eggs beaten to a stiff froth, flavor to taste. Put in 
molds to harden. — Mrs. Geo. L. Little. 

BLANC MANGE. 

About two ounces American isinglass to three pints of milk, one 
half pound of sugar, flavor to taste, boil five minutes and strain into 
moulds ; when cold serve with sugar and cream. 



THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 73 

CHOCOLATE BLANC MANGE. 

One-quarter pound sweet chocolate, halt' box gelatine, one quart 
of milk, one coffee-cup of sugar, boil one hour, when nearly cold 
turn into moulds. — "Cariad/' 

CHOCOLATE CREAM CUSTARD. 

One quart of milk, one ounce of ('ox's or Cooper's gelatine, 
soaked in a cup of the milk, one hour, four heaping tablespoonfuls 
of grated chocolate, rubbed up with a little milk, three eggs, whites 
and yolks beaten separately, three-quarters cup sugar and two tea- 
spoonfuls vanilla, heat the milk to boiling, pour in gelatine and 
milk and stir till it is dissolved, add sugar to the beaten yolks and 
stir till it is smooth, beat chocolate into this and stir in spoonful 
by spoonful of the scalding milk upon the mixture, stirring all the 
while, return to the inner saucepan and beat gently till it almost 
boils, remove from the fire and turn into a bowl, then beat in lightly 
and quickly the beaten whites, then pour into the mould which 
must be wet in cold water and set to cool. — Mrs. Stockbridge. 

CHARLOTTE R USSE. 

Three pints of cream, one pound of sugar, the whites of six eggs, 
half box of gelatine, prepare as in any cream, line a dish with 
slices ot sponge cake or lady fingers, and pour the custard over it. 
— Mrs. Clara C. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 

Mix together half pint milk, half pint (ream and five eggs, well 
beaten and strained, boil but not curdle ; must be like a soft cus- 
tard, set it on the ice, boil one ounce best isinglass in half pint of 
water, till it is a thick jelly. When both are cool, but not hard, 
mix together and add four tablespoonfuls of sugar, the juice and 
yellow rind of two lemons -and one pint of (ream whipped to a 
froth, then cover the bottom and sides of an oval dish with slices 
of sponge cake, putting the white of an egg between to make them 
adhere. Pour the custard over and put sponge cake on top, using 
white of an egg to make it adhere ; make an icing and cover the 
top with it. — Dolly Hard. 



74 



THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 



A BIRD'S NEST. 

Have some eggs blown and pour blanc mange into them, when 
it is quite cold peel off the shell, then place pieces of jelly or firm 
preserve round a glass dish, lay some lemon peel cut in thin strips 
to represent straws in the center, and also on the jelly and place 
the eggs on top, put some moss or pretty green leaves round the 
edge of the dish and you will have a simple but pretty and fanciful 
supper dish, is nice served with boiled custard. — Migiwu. 

CRYSTALLIZED FRUIT. 

Beat the white of an egg to a froth, dip your fruit in it, then roll 
in sifted white sugar, place in an open oven to be slowly dried, 
must remain white. 

COCOANUT AND ORANGES. 

One dozen oranges, one cocoanut, cut the oranges in thin slices 
and grate the cocoanut, place a layer of orange in a glass dish and 
sprinkle powdered sugar over it, then a layer of cocoanut and so 
on alternate layers, having cocoanut last, — Mrs. J. B. Morse and 
Mrs. Judge Word en. 

LEMON CUSTARD. 

One large lemon, two cups sugar, two of water, half of butter, 
one tablespoon ful of flour, three eggs, beaten separately and put 
the whites in last. — Mrs. Filla Morganthaler. 
ICED APPLES. 

Pare, core and fill the (enters often large tart apples with sugar, 
bake till you can run a straw through them, then put them away to 
get entirely cold, prepare an icing with the whites of four eggs 
beaten to a stiff froth, with four large spoonfuls of fine white sugar 
flavored with either lemon or vanilla. When the apples are cold, 
lay the icing on the tops and sides as much as you can, return to 
the oven to just harden and "set." Serve with cream. — Mrs. S. B. 

NOTHINGS. 

Three well beaten eggs, saltspoonful of salt and flour enough for 
a very stiff paste, roll and cut into very thin cakes and fry like 
trifles, put two- together with jam or jell) between. — Mrs. Robert 

Lowry. 



THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 75 

MOCK CREAM. 

Take the yolks of three fresh eggs, small cup of sugar, beat the 
sugar and eggs well together with a teaspoonful of flour, pour over 
it a pint of boiling milk, new milk is best, but be sure it is sweet, 
stirring rapidly till thoroughly mixed, then place the kettle con- 
taining il in boiling water until it thickens, but do not let it boil. 
If you wish flavoring, lemon or orange peel scalded in the milk 
will give it to you. — Mrs. Cynthia Hill. 

TRIFLES. 

Take two eggs, beat the whites sepcratelv. add three tablespoon- 
fuls of white sugar, a piece of butter the size of a hickory nut, half 
(Up of water, knead together tint il very stiff and roll thin as a wafer, 
cut to suit yourself and fry in lard, when baked sprinkle loaf sugar 
and cinnamon over them. — Mrs. Sol. D. Bash. 

FLOATING ISLAND. 

Take six eggs, separate whites and yolks ; take one quart of milk 
in a tin pail, set it into boiling water, and when the milk boils add 
the yolks, into which sugar enough has been beaten to sweeten it, 
when it thickens flavor to taste and take out of the water. Plate 
the whites on the top, which have been previously beaten to a stiff 
froth. The heat of the custard will cook them enough. — May 
Kimball. 

CALEDONIAN CREAM: 

The whites of two eggs, two spoonfuls of loaf sugar, two of rasp- 
berry jam, two of currant jelly; beat the whites of the eggs to a 
stiff froth, add the sugar, then the jam and jelly; beat them all 
together with a spoon till so thick that the spoon will stand upright 
in it. Is extra nice. Can also be frozen. — Mts. Wright. 

DA UP SINS. 

Cover the patty tins with pie paste, then after putting in a thin 
layer of stewed raspberries or jam, fill up the tin nearly full with a 
rich lemon flavored custard made with the yolks of two eggs. 
When baked take them from the tins and cover them with a thin 
frosting made with the two whites ; set back to dry. This will 
make one dozen.— Mrs. Wright, 



76 THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 

4 

ICE CREAM. . 

STRrt WBERRY ICE CREAM. 

Pass a pint of picked strawberries through a sieve with a wooden 
spoon, and four ounces powdered sugar, a pint of cream and freeze. 

PIKE rtPPLE ICE CREAM. 

Pare a ripe juicy pineapple, chop it fine and pound it to extract 
the juice, cover with sugar and let it lie a while in a china bowl, 
when the sugar has entirely melted, strain the juice into a quart of 
good cream and add a little less than a pound of loaf sugar, beat 
up with the cream and freeze. 

CURR&KT ICE CRE&M. 

Put one and a half large spoonfuls of currant jelly into a basin 
with half a pound of fine sugar, squeeze one and a half lemons, 
add a pint of cream and a little bit of cochineal, pass through a 
sieve and freeze. 

WATER ICES. 

Are made with the juice of any fruit sweetened and mixed with 
water, then frozen like ice cream, if made from jam you must rub 
it through a sieve adding thick boiled syrup and lemon juice, some 
coloring if wished, white of an egg beaten up before you add the 
water. If currants are used pass them through a sieve, add four 
ounces of powdered sugar and one pint of water to each pint ot 
currants, strain and freeze. For orange ice take as many as wished, 
cut in half, press the juice from them ; take the pulp from the rind 
and put it in a bowl, pour a little boiling water on it, stir it well 
and pass through a sieve, mix this with the orange juice and stir in 
as much sugar as will make a rich syrup. If the oranges are fine 
add some of the sugar on the peel to extract the juice. Lemons 
can be used in the same way adding the white of an egg. 

ICE CREAM MADE OF CREAM. 

Allow two pounds of loaf sugar to a gallon of cream, the flavor- 
ing must be strong as the freezing destroys it in part. 



THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 77 

CHOCOLATE ICE CREAM. 

One quart cream, one pint new milk, two cups of sugar, two eggs 
beaten light, five tablespoonfuls of chocolate rubbed smooth in a 
little milk, heat the milk almost to boiling and pour, by degrees, in 
with the beaten egg and sugar. — Mrs. S. B , 

ICE CREAM. 

Four quarts of milk, half box Cox's gelatine, the yolks of three 
eggs, one and a half pounds of sugar, add as much cream as you 
wish, with three-quarters of a pound of sugar to each quart, flavor 
with lemon or vanilla. — Airs. John Hough. 

PHILADELPHIA ICE CREAM. 

Two quarts of milk, cream when you can get it, three table- 
spoonfuls of arrow-root, the whites of eight eggs well beaten, one 
pound of powdered sugar, boil the milk, thicken with the arrow- 
root, add the sugar and pour the whole upon the eggs ; flavor to 
taste. — Dolly Ward. 

ICE CREAM.— Very Nice. 

One quart of milk, half pound of sugar, three eggs well beaten, 
mix all together in a tin pail, add lemon extract, then 'put the pail 
into boiling water, stir well till quite thick ; when cool add one 
pint of cream and freeze. — Mrs. Col. Koba'lson and Mrs. D. B. 
Strope. 

WE CREAM MADE OE MILK. 

Allow twenty eggs to a gallon, boil half the milk, beat up the 
eggs, turn the boiling milk into them, stirring all the time, strain it 
and then add the cold milk, the sugar and flavoring, freeze. — Mrs. 
B. H. Kimball. 



7 8 THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 

SWEET DISHES. 



u 



SttND TARTS. 

One pound of flour, half pound of butter, two eggs, leave out the 
white of one, work the butter to a cream, add the sugar, flour and 
eggs, make a stiff paste, roll out very thin and cut in forms, h ave 
ready some powdered sugar and cinnamon, wash the tarts with the 
beaten white ot an egg, strew the powder over them and lay a few 
blanched almonds on top. — Mrs. John Hough, Mrs. J C. Hewcs 
and Mrs. C. M. Dawson. 

&LMOKD CHEESE CAKE- 

Take half pound of sweet 'almonds, blanch and put them in cold 
water ; drain off the water and beat them in a mortar fine and 
quickly, and drop in a few drops of rose water or the white of an 
egg to prevent oiling, put this in a bowl, then add half a pound of 
powdered sugar and yolks of eight eggs and the rind of one lemon 
grated. Beat the whole mixture together until it becomes white 
and frothy, butter small tins, cover with "puff paste," (pound to 
pound, )'fill them, grate sugar over them and bake in a gentle oven. 
Fart cocoanut improves it. — Mrs. Henry Little. 

DROP CAKSE. 

One-quarter pound of butter, one of white sugar, rub to a cream, 
add the yolk of one egg and the whites of four beaten to a froth, 
one teaspoonful essence of bitter almonds, as much flour as will 
thicken the dough, drop on tins the size of a small cracker. — Mrs. 
P s mother . 

COCOANUT DROPS- 

Half pound grated cocoanut, one teacup sugar, whites of three 
eggs well beaten, bake on buttered white paper. — Mrs. Sol. D. 
Bash. 



THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 79 

SPIKGERLINE. 

One pound of sugar, five eggs, beat the yolks and whites sepa- 
rately until frothy, add sugar, then the grated rind of two lemons, 
stir it in when the batter is light with half teaspoon ful of saleratus, 
add flour enough to make a stiff dough and cut in the form of a 
star, let them stand awhile before putting in the oven. — Mrs. Fred 
Joslyn. 

MOMSSES C&MDY. 

One cup of molasses, one cup of sugar, teaspoonful of vinegar, 
piece of butter the size of a nutmeg, boil hard stirring all the time; 
try it by dipping a little in cold water just before taking off, add 
about one-quarter teaspoonful of soda. Pull, if wished, qr put in 
nut meats. — Laura K. 

WHITE SUGAR CANDY- 

One pound of sugar, three-quarters cup of water, one teaspoon- 
ful cream tartar, one tablespoonful vinegar, flavor with vanilla, boil 
without stirring about twenty minutes, cool quickly and pull till 
white. — Mrs. Hat tie Chapman. 

JVUT CAKES. 

One pint of chopped hickory nuts, one pound of sugar, whites 
of two eggs, two tablespoon fnls of flour. Drop on greased paper 
on tins size of macaroni. — Mrs. Fred foslxu. 

CHOCOLATE CARAMELS. 

One cup each of molasses, sugar and milk, one and a half cakes 
of chocolate, piece of butter the size of an egg, boil until stiff, and 
pour on buttered tins. — Mts. Nettie Lord. 

CHOCOLATE CARAMELS. 

One cup molasses, one-half of sugar, one-third of milk, two and 
a half squares of chocolate, piece of butter half the size of an egg ; 
grate the chocolate fine and boil until stiff, pour into buttered pans 
to cool, before cold mark off in little squares. — Mrs. Will Dyer. 



8o THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 

CARAMELS. 

Two cups of sugar, one of molasses, small piece of butter half 
cup milk, flavor with vanilla, stir constantly, pour out thin in a pan 
wh en done. — ' ' Cariad. ' ' 

KISSES. 

Beat the whites of nine fresh eggs to a stiff froth, then mix with 
it fifteen spoonfuls of finest white sugar and five or six drops of the 
essence of lemon, drop them on paper with a teaspoon, sift sugar 
over them, and hake in a slow oven. — Mrs. J). B. Strop,-. 

ICE CREAM CANDY. 

One coffee cup of white sugar, half cup water, one tablespoonful 
of vinegar, two-thirds teaspoonful cream tartar, put all in a pan to- 
gether and boil twenty five minutes without stirring, flavor with 
vanilla, when almost (old pull it by the stove and it will be white. 
— Kittie Little. 

MACARONI. 

Blanch one pound of sweet almonds, dry them well and then 
pound them very fine with a rolling pin, add the whites of three 
eggs beaten light, one pound oT pulverized sugar sifted through a 
hair sieve, mix well for ten minutes, then have a piece of buttered 
white paper over the bottom of your baking pan, drop the mixture 
on it in little cakes and dredge a little sugar on the top. — Mignon. 

BA TCHEL ORS B UTTONS. 

One egg, two ounces butter, five ounces of sugar; make into 
small balls, roll in sifted sugar and bake on buttered tins, allowing 
room to spread. 

OLD MAI US PINCUSHIONS. 

Six eggs, their weight in flour and sugar also, beat well together 
and drop on greased paper; bake in a slow oven. 



Ill F. HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. Si 

BUTTER SCOTCH. 

Three cups white sugar dissolved in one-half cup sweet milk, add 
half cup vinegar, piece of butter half as large as an egg ; boilslowly 

until it seems brittle when dropped in cold water; pour on butter- 
ed plates. — Nellie Fair hank. 

BUTTER SCOTCH. 

One cup of molasses, one of brown sugar, one-half of butter 
flavor to taste. — Helie Miller. 



TABLES OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES. 



Eggs m eggs ar |ual to 1 pound. 

Brown sugar, powdered 1 pound is equal to I quart 

White " " " " 

Loaf sugar, broken " '< << 

Butter, when soft " " << 

[ndian meal 111>, 2 oz " t< 

Wheat Sour " " « 

Sugar " " jjjj teacups. 

LIQUIDS. 

4 large tablespoonfuls are equal to < m\] 

8 « .......\"""l " ' 

1,1 " . " " \ pint. 

A common sized wine glass holds ."..', gill. 

A common sized tumbler holds i pint. 

(in.' quarl of liquid 4 teacups. 



82 THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 



CAKES. 



Before baking get the materials wished together, have the flour 
sifted, sugar rolled, eggs beaten, etc., so that they will be ready, 
mix well together, a wooden spoon is the best. In winter soften, 
but not melt the butter. Cake not raised with yeast should be 
baked as soon as made. Let the heat of the oven be a regular, 
moderate one. Never add fruit till ready to bake and in raised 
cake spread it on the top only a little below the surface, or it will 
settle at the bottom. Cakes that require long baking should have- 
buttered white or brown paper on the sides and bottom of the pan ; 
to ascertain when done, insert a clean, stiff straw in the thickest 
part of the loaf, it it does not stick to it, it is done. Fruit cake 
should be baked from two to four hours, according to the size of 
the cake. To test it still further see if it "sings," a little hissing 
sound, which you will hear if you apply your ear closely to the cake. 
If not, you can with safety take it out. Never move a cake if pos- 
sible, while baking as it is likely to make it fall. If likely to brown 
too much put a paper on the top. The mixing and baking has 
often times as much to do with success as the receipe. Ginger 
snaps will not be crisp if made on a rainy day. If they become 
moist with keeping, heat them in the oven a tew moments. Dough- 
nuts can be freshened in the same manner. Use New Orleans mo- 
lasses for ginger cakes. 



ICINGS FOR CAKES. 

ORANGE ICINQ. 

Half pound of pulverized sugar, the juice of two oranges and 
one lemon. 



THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 83 

cocoanut icing. 

To one grated cocoanut add one cup of fine sugar and whites of 
four eggs. 

CHEAP FROSTING FOR CAKE. 

One level teaspoonful of gelatine, two tablespoonfuls boiling 
water, enough pulverized sugar to make the mixture of the proper 
consistency to spread. Let cake cool, but spread frosting before it 
sets. Set in a cool place to dry. Do not put in the oven after the 
frosting is spread. 

WHITE FROSTING. 

To each white of an egg take nine teaspoonfuls of pulverized 
sugar and beat all together forty-five minutes, add flavoring to taste 
and apply as soon as the cake is taken from the oven. — Mrs. 
Matoon. 

ALMOND ICING. 

Beat up the whites of six eggs light, pound two pounds of 
blanched almonds with a little rose water or the white of an egg. 
Mix the almonds and eggs lightly together, then add by degrees 
two pounds of loaf sugar pounded, lay upon the cake and put in 
the oven to brown. This will ice a large cake. — Mrs. S. B. 

ICING FOR CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

Take three cups of white sugar, pour on it just water enough to 
moisten it, let it boil till perfectly clear, beat the whites of three 
eggs, very light, and add to it three sticks of grated chocolate, 
then pour on it the boiling sugar and beat until cold, it is much 
improved by adding two lumps of critic acid dissolved in a tea- 
' spoonful of water and mixed with sugar. — Mrs. Jesse Williams. 

COCOANUT ICING- 

One and a half cups white sugar, one tablespoonful of corn starch 
dissolved in a little water, whites of two eggs without beating, 
eight tablespoonfuls grated cocoanut, boil in a vessel over water 
and cool before using. — Mrs. Harikins and Mrs. Mattie Little. 



84 THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 

GOOD WING FOR CsiKE. 

To the whites of five eggs take one pound of pulverized white 
sugar and stirr all the while the cake is baking, put it on as soon as 
the cake comes out of the oven. — Mrs. C. K. Smith and Airs. O. 
B. Lazvrence. 

CHOCOLATE ICIJV'C FOB WHITE CAKE. 

Two ounces grated chocolate, one of brown sugar, three tea- 
spoonfuls sweet milk, one teaspoon fill prepared gum arabic, boil 
briskly for ten minutes. — Mrs. Will Stotkbridge. 

TO BLAJVCH ALMOJV'BS. 

Pour boiling water on them, then slip their "coats" off, throw 
them in cold water to prevent turning yellow. When pounded 
moisten with the whites of an egg to prevent oiling, or rose or 
orange flower water. 



BLACK CAKE. 



• 



Yolks of eight eggs, one cup of butter, two of sugar, one of milk, 
two pounds of raisins, two of currants, one and a half of citron, 
one tablespoonful each of cinnamon, allspice and cloves, one nut- 
meg, two teaspoon fills baking powder, three and a half cups o* 
browned flour if you wish the cake very dark. — Mrs. Hattie H. 
Little. 

FRUIT CAKE 

Three pounds currants, two of raisins, six ounces citron, one and 
a quarter pounds of brown sugar, one of butter, one and a quarter 
of flour, eight eggs, one gill of brandy, four tablespoonfuls of cin- 
namon, two nutmegs, one teaspoon ful cloves, one-teaspoonful soda 
dissolved in one-quarter teacup of water. Beat butter and sugar to 
a cream, next add the eggs well beaten, then the brandy, next the 
flour, spices and fruit and soda, fruit last. The raisins must be 
seeded, currants well washed, and dried citron, cut fine, sift flour 
on the fruit. — Mrs. Sarah Hurt and Lucrctia Munson. 



THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 85 

FRUIT CAKE. 

Two pounds each of raisins, currants, flour and butter, one pound 
each of citron and brown sugar, twelve eggs, cloves, cinnamon and 
mace to taste, two large glasses of wine and brandy; wash the cur- 
rants and dry them, cut the raisins, dredge the fruit with flour to 
prevent sinking, stir the butter and sugar to a cream, beat the eggs 
very light, then add fruit, bake four hours, put in a large gravy 
spoonful of cream tartar and soda, one cup of molasses, add one- 
half of flour browned, add dates, figs and almonds. — Mrs. Robt. 
Lowry. 

FRUIT CtiKE. 

Two pound of flour, three-quarters of a pound of butter, half of 
sugar, one pint of molasses, one teaspoonful of each kind of spice, 
half pound of almonds, one-quarter pound of orange peel, one 
pound of raisins, eight eggs, one cup of milk, two teaspoonfuls of 
cream tartar, one of soda ; make two loaves, — Mrs. David Bur. 
gess. 

FRUIT CtiKE. 

Two and a half pounds of butter, two and three-quarters of sugar, 
two and a half of flour, five of seeded raisins, three of Zantee cur- 
rants, one and one-quarter of citron, eighteen eggs, whites and 
yolks beaten separately, three and a half wine glasses of wine, same 
of brandy, three and a half grated nutmegs, two and a half tea- 
spoonfuls of mace, same of cinnamon, one of soda. — Airs. John 
Hough. 

\ 

FRUIT CAKE.— Splendid. 

Three quarters of a pound of butter, one of sugar, one of raisins, 
one of currants, one-half of citron, one- half of figs, six eggs, one 
teaspoonful each of cloves, cinnamon and allspice, three- fourths of 
a cup of milk, one cup of coffee, halt of nutmeg, flour to stiffen, 
Bake two hours. — Mrs. Horatio Mills. 
11 



86 THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 

FRUIT CAKE. 

Five eggs, three cups of brown sugar, one of molasses, one and 
a half of butter, five of sifted flour, one of sour milk, one teaspoon- 
ful of soda, one teaspoonful each of cinnamon, cloves and nutmeg, 
two pounds of seeded raisins, one of currants, one of blanched 
almonds, one-half of citron, one wine-glass of brandy or flavor with 
extract of vanilla. This makes two large loaves ; bake slowly two 
hours. — Mrs. Pool. 

FRUIT CAKE. 

One pound of flour, one of butter, one of sugar, three of currants, 
three of raisins, one of citron, eight eggs, one pint of brandy, one 
ounce of mace, half ounce each of cloves, cinnamon and nutmeg 
to taste. — Mrs. Wm. B. Douglass. 

FRUIT CAKE. 

Two cups of butter, two of brown sugar, two of molasses, one 
of sour cream, eight of flour, six eggs, one teaspoonful of soda two 
pounds of raisins, two of currants, half pound of citron, two 
nutmegs spices and one wine glass of brandy. — Abbie Wallace. 

FRUIT CUP CAKE. 

One cup butter, one of sugar, one of molasses, three of flour, 
four eggs, half pound of currants, half pound of raisins, one-quarter 
pound of citron, one-quarter teaspoonful of soda, one teaspoonful 
of all kinds of spices, will keep a year, little brandy. — Mrs. Mor- 
ganthaler. 

FRUIT CAKE. 
Two pounds of flour, one of brown sugar, three-quarter of but- 
ter, one cup of molasses, three eggs, one pint of warm sweet milk, 
two teaspoonfuls soda, all kinds of spices, one pound of raisins, 
one and a half of currants, one-half of citron, rub the flour, butter 
and sugar together, add the eggs well beaten, then the molasses, 
then the fruit, spice and flour and last of all the soda, flour the cur- 
rants, bake in a moderate oven two and a half hours, three if made 
in a very large loaf, brandy and wine improve the cake if cost and 
conscience admit of it. — Mrs. Henry Little and Mrs. Hattie Chap- 
man. 



THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 



87 



FRUIT CAKE. 

Three cups sugar, two of butter, one-half of molasses, four and 
a half of flour, five eggs, three pounds of raisins, one and a half of 
currants, half pound of citron, one teaspoonful baking powder, one 
glass brandy, spices; bake two hours. — Emma Hardy. 

SPICE CAKE. 

One and a half cups sugar, one-half of morasses, one-half of 
butter, more if you wish it richer, one of sour milk, one and a half 
of chopped raisins, four of flour, three eggs, one teaspoonful of 
soda disolved in the milk, half teaspoonful each of cloves, nutmeg 
and cinnamon is very nice; bake one hour. — Sadie Kimball. 

GOLD WATER CAKE- 

Two cups of sugar, two-thirds of butter, one- half molasses, one 
of cold water, one of raisins, four of flour, two eggs, two teaspoon- 
fuls baking powder, two teaspoonfuls each of cloves and cinnamon, 
half a nutmeg. — Kittie Little and Emma Hardy. 

CURRANT COMPOSITION CAKES. 

Two cups of butter, three of sugar, five of flour, one of milk, 
five eggs, one pound of currants, two teaspoonfuls baking powder ; 
bake in gem pans or muffin rings. — Mrs. Mattie Little and Mrs. 
Nettie Lord. 

PORK CAKE. 



One'pound of fresh fat pork chopped fine, one pint of boiling 
water, one pint of molasses, two cups of brown sugar one pound 
of raisins, one of currants, one-half of shelled almonds, blanched 
and chopped, one teaspoonful each of all spices, one nutmeg, one 
heaping tablespoon ful saleratus, glass of brandy, flour enough to 
make it stiff. — Mrs. James Cairns. 



38 THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

One cup of butter, two of sugar, one of water, three of flour, 
four eggs, one and a half teaspoonfuls baking powder; after mixing 
these ingredients together, take half the dough and grate half a cake 
of German chocolate in it, then put first one spoonful of the light, 
then the dark and so on, until all is used up. — Mrs Ella Morgan- 
thaler and Mrs. E. M. Kimball. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

Two cups of sugar, one of butter, yolks of five eggs, whites of 
two, one cup of milk, three and a half of flour, two teaspoonfuls of 
baking powder, bake in jellytins, place between the layers the fol- 
lowing mixture . whites of three eggs, one and a half cups of sugar, 
three tablespoon fuls of grated chocolate, one teaspoonful vanilla, 
beat well together. — Mrs. Dr. Woodworth. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

Two cupfuls of sugar, one of butter, one of sweet milk, two of 
flour, one of corn starch, two eggs, one teaspoonful soda, two of 
ircam tartar, one of vanilla; bake in jelly pans, and place between 
the following mixture : one-quarter cupful grated chocolate, eight 
tablespoonfuls of pulverized sugar, one teaspoonful of vanilla, 
beaten whites of three egg, spread as soon' as baked. — Mrs. Will 
Dyer and Mrs. Addie Howard. 

COCOAJV'UT CAKE. 

Two cupfuls of sugar, half cupful of butter, half cup of sweet 
milk, two and a half of flour, whites of four eggs, one and a half 
teaspoonfuls baking powder; bake in tins the same as jelly cake, 
with an icing made of the whites of three eggs, sugar enough to 
make it stiff, and cocoanut sprinkled on top of the frosting, between 
each layer. — Mrs. Clarkson. 

COCOAJVUT CAKE- 

Whites of nine eggs, two cupfuls of sugar, oue of butter, one of 
milk, two and a half of flour, three spoonfuls of baking powder, 
one large cocoarmt grated very fine; bake as jelly cake and place 
between the following mixture : one cupful of sugar and well beaten 
whites of four eggs. — JJrs. Sol. D. Bash. 



THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 89 

COCOANUT CAKE — Very JVice 

One pound of sugar, one-half pound of butter, one pound of 
flour, one-half cupful of sweet milk, two teaspoon fuls of cream 
tartar, one of soda, grate two large cocoanuts, put half in the cake 
the last thing with the whites of twelve eggs, bake in one large 
cake, make your icing, put the rest of the cocoanut in it, and ice 
as you would any cake. — Mrs. JoJin Hough. 

COCOANUT CAKE. 

Two cupfuls of sugar, half cupful of butter, one of milk, three 
of flour, three eggs, three teaspoonfuls baking powder ; bake as 
jelly cake, place between the layers the following mixture: half of 
agrated cocoanut, whites of three eggs and one cupful of sugar ; 
mix with the rest of the cocoanut four tablespoon fuls of sugar and 
strew thickly on top. — Mrs. Dr. Woodworth. 

COCOANUT CAKE. 

One cup grated cocoanut, one of butter, two of sugar, four and 
one-half cupfuls of flour, four eggs, one measure each of acid and 
soda, (or two heaping teaspoonfuls acid and one moderately, heap- 
ing teaspoons of soda) of Horsford's bread preparations. Flavor 
with lemon. 

COCOANUT CAKE. 

Four cupfuls of flour, three of sugar, one of butter, one of milk, 
five eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately, two teaspoonfuls 
baking powder, half of a large cocoanut, or two small ones, grated 
and put in the last thing. Make an icing with the other half, the 
whites of three eggs and half cupful of white sugar, (over the cake 
as soon as taken from the oven ; can be baked in one large cake, 
or in gem pans or muffin rings. — Miss Mollic Ktmball and Mrs. 
Addle Howard. 



90 THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 

CHOC OLA TE SQ UARES. 

One cupful of butter, two of sugar, one of water, two and a half 
of flour, one and a half teaspoonfuls of baking powder ; bake in 
two layers in a biscuit pan, place between them the following mix- 
ture cut in square : 

Ieing — -Dissolve one sheet of isinglass in one cupful of boiling' 
water, mix with it one cake of grated chocolate and one cupful of 
pulverized sugar to the consistency of cream. For the top, mix 
the remainder of the icing with one cupful ol sugar flavored with 
lemon, spread thin. — Mrs. Ella Morganthaler. 

ALMOND CAKE. 

Two cupfuls of sugar, three-quarters of butter, one of sweet 
milk, three of flour, one of corn starch, whites of six eggs, one tea- 
spoonful of baking powder; bake as jelly cake with the following 
cream between : three eggs beaten separately, one cupful sugar, 
one pint of sour cream, one pound of almonds, blanched and 
pounded, and a little vanilla ; beat the yolks and sugar together, 
gradually ; stir in the cream, then the almonds, then the whites 
well beaten. — Miss Maggie Angell. 

ALMOND CAKE. 

Beat the yolks of twelve eggs to a froth, with one pound of 
white sugar, beat the whites of nine eggs and stir into the yolks 
and sugar ; add gradually one pound of flour and a half pound of 
blanched almonds, pounded, and three tablespoonfuls of thick 
cream. — Mrs. Jesse Williams- 

ALMOND CAKE. 

One pound of butter, one of sugar, one of flour, two of blanched 
almonds, three of raisins, three-quarters of citron, ten eggs. — Mrs. 
W. H. Withers. 

ALMOND CREAM CAKE. 

One cupful of butter, two of sugar, three of flour, one of sweet 
milk, five eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately, two teaspoon- 
fuls of cream tartar and one of soda; bake like jelly cake, and 
spread between the layers the following mixture : three eggs. 
whites and yolks beaten separately ; add to the yolks one cupful 
of sugar, half pound of blanched almonds, rolled fine, one cupful 
of sour cream, then the whites, well beaten, and sweeten to taste. 
— Mrs. Sol. D. Bash and C. M. Dawson. 



THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 9 1 

ALMOND CAKE. 

One cupful of butter, two of pulverized sugar, one-half of milk, 
two of flour, one of corn starch, whites of eight eggs, one tea- 
spoonful of soda, two of cream tartar, two of essence of almonds. — 
M/s. Keil. 

ORANGE CAKE. 

One cupful of sugar, three large teaspoonfuls melted butter, tour 
large spoonfuls of sweet milk, one cupful of flour, one teaspoonful 
of baking powder, foui eggs, leaving out the white of one for frost- 
ing \ bake in layers and place between frosting, made of the juice 
of one orange and part of the rind grated, powdered sugar and 
white of one egg. — Mrs. Bcals. 

ORANGE CAKE. 

One cupful of butter, two of sugar, one of milk, four of flour, 
five eggs, one and a half teaspoonfuls of baking powder, taking 
the juice of three oranges, mix with white sugar to the consistency 
of cream ; bake in layers and spread with the paste. — Mrs. Ella 
Morganthaler. 

LEMON CAKE. 

One pound of sugar, one-half of butter, one cup of milk, three 
cups of flour, three teaspoonfuls of baking powder thoroughly sifted 
with the flour, five eggs, beaten separately ; bake in layers and put 
between a frosting made of grated rind and piece of two lemons, 
one coffee cup of sugar ; let this come to a boil, then stir in the 
well beaten whites of four eggs. — Mrs. C. M. Dawson. 

APPLE CAKE. 

One cup sugar, piece of butter size of an egg, four eggs, one 
cupful of flour, half teaspoonful of baking powder — or, half cupful 
each of sugar, butter and milk, two cupfuls of flour, one egg, one 
teaspoonful cream tartar, half of soda ; bake as jelly cake, and 
place between a jelly made of four large apples grated, one egg, 
one cupful of sugar, grated rind and juice of one lemon ; let it 
come to a boil, and when cool spread between the cakes. — Mrs. 
Jethro Mitchell and Mrs. K.P. Smith. 



92 THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 

CUSTARD CREAM CAKE. 

Two cups of sugar, six teaspoonfuls melted butter, half cupful 
of milk or cold water, one teaspoonful cream tarter, half of soda, 
two and a half cupfuls of flour and six eggs — or, two cupfuls of 
powdered sugar, two-thirds of butter, one-half of milk, three of 
flour, four eggs and two teaspoonfuls baking powder in the flour; 
bake in jelly cake pans, and when cool place between the follow- 
ing custard ; heat half pint of milk to boiling and stir in two small 
teaspoonfuls of corn starch, wet with a little cold milk, take out a 
little and mix gradually with the beaten egg and sugar; return to 
the rest of the custard stirring constantly till quite thick; when 
cool flavor and spread on the cakes. — Mrs. W. S. Buck and Mrs. 
Will Stockbridge. 

CHEAP CREAM CAKE. 

One cup sugar, one egg, one cup sweet milk, two cups flour, one 
tablespoonful of butter, one measure each of acid and soda (or two 
heaping teaspoonfuls acid and one moderate heaping teaspoonful of 
soda) of Horsford's bread preparation ; flavor to taste. Divide 
into three parts and bake in round shallow pans. 

CREAM SPONGE CAKE- 

Three eggs, one teacupful sugar, two tablespoon fuls of cold 
water, one and a half cupfuls of flour, one teaspoonful of baking 
powder ; bake as jelly cake, with the following cream : boil one 
pint of milk, stir in a large tablespoonful of corn starch dissolved 
in a little cold milk, two eggs, one cupful of sugar, and a large 
spoonful of butter. Make the cream first, that it may cool while 
the cake is baking. Grated cocoanut put in the cream improves 
it greatly. — Miss Dolly Ward and Miss Mollie Kimball. 

WHITE CAKE. 

One pound of flour, one of sugar, one-half of butter, whites of 
sixteen eggs, one and a half teaspoonfuls of cream tartar, one-half 
of soda ; rub the butter and sugar together, then put the whites of 
eggs into it, sift the flour three times, with the cream tartar and 
soda in it, added last. — Mrs- Jesse Williams, 



THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 93 

CREAM CAKE. 

One cupful of sugar, one and a half of flour, three eggs, whites 
and yolks beaten separately, one teaspoonful cream tartar, half of 
soda, two tablespoonfuls sweet milk; when the cake is done, cut 
the top off very carefully, take some of the inside out and pour in 
the following custard ; half pint of milk, yolks of three eggs, half 
cup of sugar, flavor to taste ; mix all together and boil in hot water 
until it thickens, then put the top on again, and let it cool before 
sending to the table ; must be eaten fresh. — Mrs, William B. 
Douglass. 

BRIDES CAKE.- Splendid. 

Half cupful of butter, two of white sugar, whites of five eggs 
beaten to a stiff froth, one cupful of cold water, mix well together, 
then add three cupfuls of flour, two teaspoonfuls of cream tartar 
sifted in the flour, one teaspoonful soda, flavored with almond. — 
Mrs. Pool. 

WHITE CAKE. 

Whites of eight eggs, one cupful of butter, two of sugar, one of 
sweet milk, three of flour, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder and 
one of rose or peach essence, For "Gold Cake," take the yolks, 
same quantities of everything else, and flavor with lemon or vanilla. 
— M/s. Eliza Hart man and Mrs. K. P. Smith. 

DELICA TE CA KE. 

One'and a half cupfuls of sugar, half of butter, two of flour, one 
half of milk, whites of four eggs, one teaspoonful cream tartar, one- 
half soda. — Mrs. J. Hallsworth and Mrs. H. Mills. 

DELICATE CAKE. 

One pound of sugar, one of flour, one-quarter of butter, one- 
half cupful of milk, whites of ten eggs, two teaspoonfuls cream 
tartar, one of soda. — Mrs. Chas. McCulloch and Mrs. D. B. 
Strope. 



94 THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. ' 

STOLLEN—A German Cake. 

One quart of sponge, one of milk, one pound of butter, one of 
sugar, one of raisins, one-quarter of citron, two ounces of sweet 
almonds, one of bitter almonds, six eggs, one lemon, grated; 
blanch and chop the almonds, stir all together; flour enough to 
make not quite so stiff as bread; make into loaves, let it rise, and 
when light bake slowly one hour. — Jfrs. Schmetzer. 

STOLLEJV- 

One pint of milk warmed, one pound of butter, five spoonfuls of 
yeast, half pound of raisins, one-half of currants, one-quarter of 
a pound of sugar, a little mace and flour enough to keep it from 
sticking; warm the flour and put the warmed milk in the center of 
it, then stir in the yeast, then the butter, into which the other in- 
gredients have been worked, set it in a warm place to rise, then 
cut ridges in the top and spread some melted butter and a quarter 
of a pound of closely rolled almonds, which have been blanched, 
over it, bake slowly ; when done spread it again with butter and 
sift sugar and cinnamon over the top. — Mrs. Carrie Douglass. 

WHITE PO UJVD CAKE. 

One pound of sugar, one-half of flour, one-half of corn starch, 
three-quarters of a pound of butter, one teaspoonful baking powder, 
whites of nineteen eggs, rose-water, brandy and lemon. This is a 
superior cake. — Mrs. JV. B. Young. 

WHITE CAKE. 

Two and a half cupfuls of flour, two of sugar, one-half butter, 
three-quarters of sweet milk, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, 
whites of six eggs, beat sugar and butter together, then add milk, 
flour and baking powder ; last the whites of the eggs. — Mrs. John 
Gilbert. 

LEMON CAKE. 

One cupful of butter, three of pounded loaf sugar, four of flour, 
one of sweet milk, five eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately, 
one teaspoonful of soda dissolved in the milk, juice and grated rind 
of one lemon. Is much improved by icing. — Mrs. John Hough. 



THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 95 

QUEEN CAKE- Very Nice. 

One cupful of butter, two of sugar, one of milk, four of flour, 
six eggs, three teaspoonfuls baking powder or two of cream tartar, 
and one of soda ; flavor to taste. — Mrs. T. M. Bit/die. 

FRENCH LOAF CAKE. 

One cupful of butter, three of sugar, one-half of cream, four of 
flour, eight eggs, juice and rind of one lemon, (fruit if you like,) 
three spoonfuls baking powder, or cream tartar and soda. — Mrs. 
T. M. Biddle. 

MOUNTAIN CAKE- 

One cupful of butter, two of sugar, three of flour, one of sweet 
milk, one teaspoonful of soda, two of cream tartar, whites of eight 
eggs ; bake as jelly cake and place between the following mixture : 
Two cupfuls of white sugar, boil to a thick syrup, putting in water 
enough to keep from burning, pour this boiling hot over the whites 
of two well beaten eggs, and stir till cold ; add one-third teaspoon- 
ful of citric acid and flavor to taste. Another icing: Use ising- 
glass instead of eggs — as much as will dissolve in one-half teacup- 
ful of warm water ; beat sugar into a stiff froth ; it adds to the ap- 
pearance of it ; can be baked in layers of different sizes, decreasing 
in size as it is "built" up; ice it on top. — Mrs. J. B. Fairbank. 

DELICIOUS CAKE 

Two cups white sugar, one of butter, one of sweet milk, three 
eggs, half teaspoonful of soda, one of cream tartar, three cups of 
sifted flour; stir the butter and sugar to a cream, add the beaten 
yolks of the eggs, then beaten whites, dissolve the soda in the 
milk. Sift the cream tartar in the flour and add the last thing. 
Flavor with lemon. — Mrs. E. O. Poole. 

BER WICK SPONGE CAKE. 

v 

Beat six eggs together two minutes, add three cupfuls of sugar 
and beat five minutes, add two cupfuls of flour, with two teaspoon- 
fuls of cream tartar sifted in, and beat two minutes, then add one 
cupful of cold water with one teaspoonful saleratus dissolved in it, 
and beat one minute, grated rind of one lemon and one-half of 
the juice, a little salt and two cupfuls more flour, then beat one 
minute, (observe the time exactly, ) bake in rather deep pans. — 
Mrs D. B. Strope. 



q6 THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 



POUND CAKE. 

One pound of sugar, one of butter, one of flour, ten eggs, one- 
half tumblerful, of rose-water. — Mrs. Nellie Matoon and Mrs. 
Brown. 

QUAKER POUND CAKE.— Excellent. 



One cupful of white sugar, one of butter, two and one-half of 
flour; one-half of sour milk, two eggs, one teaspoonful soda, one 
of cloves, one of cinnamon, one-half cup chopped raisins. — Mrs. 
Etta Joslyn ami Mrs. Will Jos ly 11. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

Twelve eggs, the whites beaten to a froth in the bowl in which 
the cake is made, the yolks beaten in the bowl with one-half tea- 
spoonful of salt, one-half pound of flour with a teaspoonful of cream 
tartar sifted after the latter is put in, one pound of sugar stirred 
into the whites, then the yolks, afterward the flour ; flavor with 
essence of lemon. —^-Mrs. John Hough. 

WHITE SPONGE CAKE. 

One and one-half tumblerfuls of pulverized sugar, one of flour, 
one teaspoonful cream tartar, whites of ten eggs, beat the eggs to 
a stiff froth, add the sugar, sift the flour and cream tartar together 
and stir in as gently as possible; flavor to taste; never move it in 
the oven.— M's. J. B. Fairbanks Mrs. C. M- Dawson, Helie 
Miller, and Mrs. Jesse Williams. 

NONE SO GOOD. 

One pound of sugar, one of flour, one-half of butter, six eggs, 
one teaspoonful soda, one cupful of cream, one nutmeg. — Mi' s - 
John Hough. 



THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 97 

SPONGE CAKE— Nice. 

One and a half cupfuls of sugar, three eggs, whites and yolks 
beaten separately ; half cupful of water, two of flour, one and one- 
half teaspoon fuls of baking powder; roll the sugar; add the 
whites well beaten, then the yolks, then the water, then flour with 
baking powder sifted in. Flavor with lemon. — Miss Mollie Kim- 
ball. 

SPONGECAKE. 

Six eggs, one pint of pulverized sugar, one of flour, half a tea- 
spoonful of salt, Haifa teacupful of water, one teaspoonful of bak- 
ing powder, one grated lemon. Bake one hour in a slow oven. — ■ 
Mrs. Keil. 

SPONGE ROLL. 

Two cupfuls of sugar, one-fourth of milk, two of flour, six eggs, 
one teaspoonful cream tartar, half of soda. Will make three rolls, 
baked in long tins. For the frosting, take the whites of three eggs, 
one and a half cupfuls of pulverized sugar, spread on the bottom 
of the cake and roll up quickly. — Airs. Julia Porter. 

ROLL JELLY CAKE. 

Two eggs, one cupful of sugar, half of sweet milk, one good 
cupful of flour, one teaspoonful cream tartar, one-fourth of soda. 
Makes two rolls. — Jjfiss Hattie Woodward. 

CREAM SPONGE CAKE. 

Stir a cup of white sugar into the beaten yolks of two eggs, add 
half cupful of sweet cream and Graham or white flour, with a lea- 
spoonful of baking powder, enough to make a thin batter. Have 
your pans hot, and the last thing add the whites well beaten ; stir 
together quickly and bake in a quick oven. — Mrs. Will Stock- 
bridge. 

WARM JELLY CAKE. 

One cupful of sugar, one of sweet milk, one egg, half teaspoon- 
ful of butter, same of lard, one pint of flour and two teaspoonfuls 
of baking powder sifted together. Bake in tins and spread while 
hot. — Mrs- Eliza Hartman. 



98 THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 

GOLD CAKE. 

Yolks of ten eggs, two cupfuls of brown sugar, one of butter, 
one of sweet milk, three and a half of flour, three teaspoonfuls of 
baking powder, flavor to taste, beat butter and sugar to a cream, 
add the eggs, beaten very light, next the milk, then flour and 
flavoring, baking powder last. Silver cake, same quantities, using 
the whites of the eggs and white sugar. — Mrs. Sarah Hitrit and 
Miss Lucretia Munson. 

BO 81 OK CREAM CAKE. 

Boil together one pint of water and one-half pound of butter; 
while boiling stir in three-fourths of a pound of flour. When cool 
add ten eggs and half a teaspoonful of soda ; drop in pans in 
small pieces, and when baked cut open and put in cieam. For the 
cream boil one pint of milk, two cupfuls of sugar, one cupful of 
flour, four eggs ; flavor to taste. — Mrs. Rowland. 

BOSTON CREAM CAKES. 

One pint of boiling water, one cupful of butter, one heaping 
cupful of flour, add the butter to the boiling water, and then, while 
boiling, stir in the flour quickly and thoroughly; while cooling 
beat up six eggs, whites and yolks separately ; when the flour and 
butter are cool, mix in one-fourth teaspoonful soda, add the yolks, 
the whites, beaten very light. Drop on pans, a tablespoonful at a 
time, not very close together. Be sure they are fully done before 
you take them out, or they will fall. Before putting them in the 
oven wash the top with the white of an egg. For cream, take one 
pint of milk, three eggs, one cupful of sugar, half cupful of flour ; 
boil the milk, beat the eggs, stir in the flour and sugar, then stir 
this into the boiling milk and let it just thicken. Flavor with lem- 
on when cold. Just before you wish to place them on the table 
cut one side of the cake open and fill with cream. — jffrs. B, H. 
Kimball and J) 'rs. A. Howard. 



THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 99 

LEMON CAKE. 

Five cups of flour, white and clean, 
One cup of butter, nothing mean, 
Six new-laid eggs, well beaten up, 
Enough of milk to fill one cup, 
One lemon, large, or two, if small ; 
Sugar, three cups, to sweeten all ; 
A teaspoonful of soda add — 
Rich lemon cake will then be had. 
Bake it in pans to please the eye, 
Or round, or oblong, should you try, 
Of one thing note, without surprise ; 
The more you make the less the size. 

— Afrs. Cynthia Hill. 

SCOTCH CAKE. 

Stir to a cream one pound of sugar, three-fourths of butter, add 
the juice and grated rind of one lemon, one wine glassful of 
brandy, separate the yolks and whites of nine eggs, beat them to 
a froth and stir them in; add one pound of sifted flour, and just 
bet ore putting in the cake pans add one pound of seedless raisins. 
— Mrs. C. D ouglass. 

CORN STARCH CAKE. 

Beat to a thick cream one cupful of butter, two of sugar, mix 
one cupful of corn starch with one of milk or water, and add to 
the butter and sugar, then add two cupfuls of flour and the whites 
of four eggs beaten to a stiff froth, two teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder, flavor the icing with rose. — Mrs. A. C. Keel and Mrs. 
Clara C -. 

CORN STARCH CAKE. 

One cupful pulverized sugar, half cupful of butter, stir until i l 
looks like thick^cream, one teaspoonful of soda dissolved in a half 
teacupful of sweet milk, "beat the whites of three eggs and put them 
l n witlr two teaspoonfuls of cream tartar mixed with a teacupful of 
flour, stir and add half a teacupful of corn starch, flavor and bake 
in a moderate oven. Frost or not, just as you please. — Mrs. B. 
W. Chapman. 



IOO THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 

CORN STARCH CtiKE. 

One cupful of butter, two of white sugar, two-thirds of sweet 
milk, one of corn starch, two of flour, yolks of six eggs, two tea- 
spoonfuls of cream tartar, one of soda, last of all the whites of the 
eggs ; flavor with lemon. — Mrs. . 

CITRON TUMBLER C&KE. 

Three tumblerfuls of white sugar, one of butter, one of sweet 
milk, five of flour/ one of citron, four eggs, one teaspoonful of 
soda, two of cream tartar; flavor with lemon extract. — "Cariad." 

COFFEE CAKE. 

One cupful of coffee, one of molasses, two of sugar, one of but- 
ter, five of flour, three eggs, one teaspoonful of soda, fruit and 
spice to the taste. — Mrs. John Gilbert and Mrs. Keil. 

COFFEE CAKE. 

One cupful of butter, one of fresh made coffee, two of brown 
sugar, three of flour, one of currants one of raisins, six eggs, two 
teaspoonfuls each of cinnamon and cloves, one of soda. — Mrs. 
Ella Motganthaler. 

COFFEE CAKE. 

One-half cupful each of molasses, brown sugar, butter, coffee 
two and a half of flour, one egg, one teaspoonful saleratus ; spices 
to taste and fruit. — Mrs. K. P. Smith. 

LADY FINGERS. 

Four eggs, one cupful of butter, two 01 sugar, three of flour, if 
made into paste for fingers, add just enough flour to bring it into 
a roll the size of the finger, it will spread in the oven to a thin 
cake. Flavor with lemon. They are nice dipped in chocolate 
icing. — Mrs. Cynthta Hill. 

MARBLE CAKE. 

To the whites of five eggs add one and a half cupfuls of white 

sugar, half of butter, half of sweet milk, two and a half of flour, 

two teaspoonfuls of baking powder. Same quantities for dark 
part, using brown sugar and spices. — Mrs. Rodabaugh. 



THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. IOl 

FIG GMKE. 

Silver part. — Two cups of sugar, two-thirds of butter, not quite 
two-thirds cup of sweet milk, whites of eight eggs, three heaping 
teaspoons of baking powder sifted into the three cups of flour; stir 
sugar and butter to a cream, add milk, flour, and baking powder, 
and last, the whites of the eggs. 

Gold part. — One cup sugar, three-fourths jdmtter, one-half of 
sweet milk, one and one-half teaspoons of baking power, sifted 
into a little more than one and one-half cups of flour, yolks of 
seven eggs and one whole egg, one teaspoon allspice^ and_ cinna- 
mon; bake the white in two long pie tins; put one-half the gold 
in a pie tin and lay on one pound of halved figs; sifted over with 
flour, so that they will just^touc'h each other, put on the rest of the 
gold and bake; put the cakes together with frosting while warm — 
the gold between the white and cover with frosting. — Miss May 
Kimball. 

ANGEL FOOD. 

Beat the whites of eleven eggs to a stiff froth, sift into them a 
little at a time, one and a half tumblers full of powdered sugar, 
mixing carefully and lightly, then sift one tumbler full of patent 
flour three or four times, and a level teaspoon ful of cream tartar to 
the flour, sift it again, then sift it into the eggs and sugar a little at 
a time, mixing it very lightly; when all the flour is used, add a 
teaspoonful of vanilla, and put into a cake pan neither buttered nor 
lined; a new pan is desirable; bake in a moderate oven three 
quarters of an hour; test with a broom strawy if it comes out clean 
it is done; be sure not to take out until done; turn the pan upside 
down if baked in a new pan, and let it stand until cool; its success 
depends upon careful mixing and baking; if baked in a pan that 
has been greased before, do not turn upside down but let it stand 
until cool. — M''S. H. N. Goodwin and Miss Mary Kimball. 

SUNSHINE CAKE. 

Yolks of eleven eggs, two cups of sugar, one cup of butter, one 
of sweet milk, one teaspoonful cream tartar, one-half teaspoonful 
soda, three cups of flour; flavor with vanilla; citron can be added, 
or any fruit. — Carrie. 

!3 



102 THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 

FROSTED CREAMS. 

Two cups molasses, "one cup butter melted, three-fourths cup of 
hot water, two rounding teaspoonfuls soda, one large teaspoonful of 
ginger, little salt, flour enough to make it stiff enough to roll; cut 
in squares; do not bake too long; when cool enough to handle, 
frost.— Aft s. John Gilbett. 

SUPERB CAKE. 

Use the whites of twelve eggs, the yolks only of six, one pound 
of sugar, one pound of butter, one-half pound of flour, one-half 
pound of meal, juice of two large lemons, rub the butter and sugar 
to cream, then add the yolks well beaten, then add alternately a 
portion of the whites, whipped stiff, and the sifted flour, until it is all 
in; the meal of course goes in with the flour; let it be baked 
carefully in a well regulatedoven; this can also be baked in layers 
with jelly or preserves between. — Miss Bell Pierce. 

HORACE CREEL Y CAKE. 

Two cups white sugar, three-fourths cup butter, two and one- 
hall cups flour, one of sweet milk, whites of five eggs, three tea- 
spoonsful baking powder. 

Dark part, --Take out two large spoonsful of dough, add one- 
half cup raisins chopped fine, one-half cup molasses, one-half cup 
flour, spice to taste; bake in three round forms; put the dark in 
the middle. — Mrs. Wilson. 

NUT WAFERS. 

Two cups sugar, one of butter, two eggs, beat thoroughly to- 
gether, add flour enough to make a stiff dough, roll very thin, cut 
in cakes, wash the tops with the beaten whites of eggs and sprinkle 
plentifully with hickory nut meats; bake quickly. — Mrs. M- 
Bieber. 

COCOAMUT CAKE. 

One cup grated cocoanut, one of butter, two of sugar, four and 
one-half cups of flour, four eggs, one measure each of acid and 
soda (or two heaping teaspoonfuls acid and one moderately heap- 
ing teaspoonful soda) of Horsford's Bread Preparation; flavor with 
lemon. 



THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 103 

MINNEHAHA CAKE. 

White part. — Whites of three eggs, two-thirds of a cup of sugar, 
one-half of a cup of butter, four tablespoons of sweet milk, one 
teaspoonful of baking powder, one large cup of flour and corn 
starch mixed; flavor with vanilla. 

Red part. — Two eggs, one-half cup butter, one-half cup red 
sugar sand and enough white sugar to make cup two-thirds full, 
four tablespoon fuls sweet milk, one heaping teaspoonful of 
baking powder and one-half teaspoonful rose extract. 

Yellow part. — Yolks of three eggs, one-half cup butter, two- 
thirds cups of sugar, four tablespoon fuls of sweet milk, one large 
cup of flour, one teaspoonful of baking powder; flavor with vanilla 
mixture; for between cakes, one large cup of cut raisins spread 
over boiled icing. — Miss Jessie Hough. 

WATERMELLON CAKE- 

Whites of eight eggs, two cupfuls of sugar, one of butter, one of 
sweet milk, three cupfuls of flour, two teaspoonfuls of cream tartar, 
one of soda; in one-third of the batter put two cents worth of 
cochineal, a lump of alum the size of a pea, dissolved in water; 
flavor with lemon. Put in the cake pan as you would marble cake. 
— Mrs. Ella Morganthaler. 

WATERMELON CAKE. 

White part. — Two cupfuls of white sugar, one-half cupful of but- 
ter, one-half of sour milk, whites of eight eggs, three cupfuls of 
flour, one teaspoonful of soda, two of cream tartar. Red part : 
one-half pound red sugar, half cupful of butter, half cupful sweet 
milk, whites of six eggs, two cupfuls of flour, two teaspoonfuls 
cream tartar, one of soda, put half the white part in the pan, then 
the red, with a few currants sprinkled in to have the appearance of 
seeds, then place the \ remaining white part on top. — Mrs. Judge 
Worden. 

WASHINGTON PIE. 

One cupful of sugar, one-half of butter, half of milk, two of 
flour, four of eggs, bake in two layers and spread with jelly. — 
Mts. Ella Morganthaler. 



104 THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 

RIBBON CAKE. 

Two and a half cups of sugar, one of butter, one of sweet milk, 
teaspoonful cream tartar, half teaspoon soda, four cups flour, four 
eggs; reserve a third of this mixture, and bake the rest in two 
loaves of the same size. Add to third reserved, one cup raisins, 
fourth of a pound citron, a cup of currants, two tablespoonfuls of 
molasses, teaspoonful each of all kinds of spices; bake in a tin the 
same size as other loaves; put the three loaves together with a little 
icing or currant jelly, placing the fruit loaf in the middle ; frost 
the top and sides. — Mrs. J. L. Gruber. 

LEOPARD CAKE. 

Four eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately; to the whites add 
one and a half cupfuls white sugar, one of butter, half of sour milk, 
two of flour, half a teaspoonful of soda; to the yolks add the same 
quantities, using brown sugar instead of white, flavor to taste, 
drop in cake pans, a spoonful of each alternately. — Mrs. IV. B. 
Douglass. 

BREAD CAKE. 

Three cupfuls of light dough, taken out after kneading thorough- 
ly, three of sugar, one of butter, three eggs, small teaspoonful of 
soda, one cupful of raisins, (more if you can afford it,) spices to 
taste, more flour if necessary to make it the consistency of pound 
cake; let it stand a little while to rise, then put raisins in the top 
and press them in a little. — Mrs. Will Stockbridge and IF. H. 
Howard. 

BREAD CAKE. 

Two pounds of dough, three-quarters of sugar, one-half of but- 
ter, three eggs, half teaspoonful of soda, three quarters of a nut- 
meg. Improved by two tablespoonfuls of brandy. — Mrs. Johti 
IToi/cli. 



THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. I05 

HICKORY NUT CAKE. 

Four cupfuls of flour, one of butter, two of sugar, one of sweet 
milk, two teaspoon fuls cream tartar, one of soda, half pound of 
raisins, half pound of hickory nut kernels, the whites of eight eggs, 
nutmeg. — Mrs. W. H. Withers. 

HLCKOR Y NUT C4KK 

One cupful of butter, two and a half of sugar, three and a half 
of flour, one of sweet milk, four eggs, one pint of hickory nut 
meats, one pound of raisins, one pound of currants, small piece of 
citron, one teaspoonful of soda, two of cream tartar. — Miss Mag- 
gie Angell. 

HICKORY NUT CAKE. 

Three cupfuls of flour, two of sugar, one-half of butter, one-half 
of milk, one-half teaspoonful of soda, one of cream tartar, two 
eggs, one pint of hickory nut meats. — Mrs. Nettie Lord. 

FRENCH CAKE— Very Nice. 

Two cupfuls of sugar, half a cupful of butter, one of sweet milk, 
three of flour, three or four eggs, as you happen to want to use, 
one teaspoonful soda, two of cream tartar, or two teaspoonfuls bak- 
ing powder. This is nice plain or with fruit in it; can be used for 
any cream or roll jelly cake, and is a very accommodating recipe. 
A nice chocolate cake can be made from it by taking one-third of 
the dough and mixing grated chocolate in it and putting it in like 
marble cake — or taking half the dough, putting chocolate in it and 
baking so that you can have alternate layers for a jelly cake of the 
chocolate and white with cocoanut icing between. — Mrs. B. H. 
Kimball and Mrs. Martha Bieber. 

CIDER CAKE. 

Two pints of flour, one of sugar, half of molasses, half of cider, 
one cupful of butter, three eggs, half a teaspoonful of soda, raisins, 
and spices. — Mrs. W. B. Douglass. 



Io6 THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 



FRENCH L OAF CAKE - Very Nice. 

Two and a half cupfuls of sugar, one and a half of butter, one 
of sweet milk, three eggs, five cupfuls of flour, one-half teaspoon- 
ful of soda, half pound of raisins, one-quarter pound of citron, 
mace to taste. — Miss Emma Hardy. 

PIC-NIC CAKE. 

Two cupfuls of white sugar, two eggs and the whites of a third, 
one cupful of butter, one of sweet milk, two of flour, one of corn 
starch, half teaspoonful of soda, one of cream tartar. — Mrs. Etta 
"Joslyn. 

JERSEY CAKE. 

One cupful of sugar, one-half of butter, two of flour, half of 
milk, two eggs, one teaspoonful baking powder, or two of cream 
tartar and one of soda. — Mrs. E. H. Hall and Mrs. James Ham- 
ilton. 

ONE EGG CAKE. 

One egg, one and a half cupfuls of sugar, one of sweet milk, 
three of flour, two tablespoonfuls of butter and three teaspoonfuls 
of baking powder. You can put a cupful of raisins in this, making 
a very eatable cake — or omit the raisins, and instead of three cup- 
fuls of flour, use one of corn starch and two of flour for a white 
cake. — Mrs. Will Stockbridge. 

TWO EGG CAKE- 

Two cupfuls of sugar, one-half of butter, one of milk, three of 
flour, two eggs, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, flavoring to 
taste. — Miss Kittie Little. 

CREAM CAKE- 

One cupful of sugar, three-quarters of milk, one and a half of 
flour, one egg, one tablespoonful of butter, one teaspoonful baking 
powder. — Mrs. D. B. Strope and Mrs. Dr. Woodworth. 



THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. IO7 

YORKSHIRE PUDDING FOR ROAST BEEF. 

Three eggs and three cupfuls of milk, and enough flour to make 
a thin batter, pour the batter into the dripping pan, from which 
the roast has been taken, and bake twenty minutes. 

SALLY LUNN. 

Seven cupfuls of flour, one-half teacupful of butter warmed in a 
pint of milk, a little salt, three well-beaten eggs, one-half cupful 
of sugar ; if wished, two tablespoonfuls of brewer's yeast, (if home 
made use twice as much,) pour into pans to rise, and bake before 
it sours. — Mrs. Jesse Williams, Mrs. Mattie H. Little, Mrs. Han- 
kins. 

MOLASSES GINGERBREAD. 

One cupful of molasses, one of warm water, one-half cupful of 
shortening, one-half teaspoonful of soda, three cupfuls of flour, 
and spice to taste. Is a nice common gingerbread. — Mrs. John 
Gilbert. 

SPONGE GINGERBREAD. 

One cup sour milk, one of Orleans molasses, half of butter, two 
eggs, one teaspoonful soda, one tablespoonful ginger, flour to make 
as thick as pound cake ; put butter, molasses and ginger together, 
make them quite warm, then add the milk, flour, eggs and soda, 
and bake as quickly as possible. — Mrs. W. H. Howard. 

GINGERBREAD. 

One cupful of molasses, one-half cupful of shortening, one-half 
cupful of boiling water poured on a piece of alum the size of a nut- 
meg, one teaspoonful ginger, one large teaspoonful of soda, and 
flour to stiffen. — Mrs. T. P. Anderson and Mrs. D. B. Strope. 

HARD SUGAR GINGERBREAD-Nice. 

Two cupfuls of sugar, one of butter, two eggs, one tablespoonful 
of ginger, a little salt, and flour enough to roll thin. Cut in 
squares and bake in a quick oven. — Mrs. B. H. Kimball. 



Io8 THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 



GINGERBREAD- 

One pint of molasses, one cupful of brown sugar, one of sour 
milk, one- half of butter, one teaspoonful of soda, one tablespoon- 
ful of ginger, three eggs, and flour enough to stiffen. — Mrs. John 
Hough. 

JUMBLES. 

Two cupfuls of sugar, one of butter, one of cream, one egg, one 
teaspoonful of soda, flour enough to roll out. — Mrs. Win. B. 
Douglass. 

SUPERIOR MOLASSES CAKE. 

Two cupfuls of molasses, one of sour cream, one of sour milk, 
one tablespoonful of butter, two teaspoon fuls of soda, two of 
ginger, one of salt, and flour enough for a thick batter. — Mrs. 
Will Stockbridge. 

GOOD MOLASSES GINGERBREAD. 

One cupful of boiling water, two of molasses, two teaspoonfuls 
of saleratus, one tablespoonful of butter or lard, one of ginger, and 
a little salt. When cool add flour — not very stiff. — Miss Sadie 
Kimball. 

SOFT GINGERBREAD. 

One cupful of butter, one of white sugar, and rub to a 
cream; then add one cupful of syrup; beat three eggs well 
and add ; then one tablespoonful each of cinnamon, allspice and 
ginger; next add three cupfuls of sifted flour; and last, one 
teaspoonful of >oda dissolved in a teacupful of sour milk.— Miss 
Helie Miller. 



THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 109 

KALAMAZOO COOKIES. 

One cup of molasses, one of sugar, one of butter and lard 
mixed, three tablespoonfuls of boiling water poured on the sugar, 
one tablespoonful of cinnamon, one of ginger, two spoonfuls of 
soda, flour, stiff enough to roll. The thinner and softer they are, 
the better. 

FROSTED CREAMS. 

Two cups of molasses, one cup of melted butter, three-fourths 
of a cup of hot water, two rounding teaspoonsful of soda, one 
large teaspoonful of ginger, little salt, flour enough to roll out as 
soft as possible; cut in squares. Be careful not to bake them too 
long; when cool enough to handle after being taken out, frost. — 
Jennie Cunningham. 

FAMOUS GINGER SNAPS. 

Three pounds of flour, one and one-half of brown sugar, one 
and one-quarter of shortening, (two-thirds butter and one-third 
lard,) one pint of ( thick molasses, one-half pint of sour milk, and 
one teaspoonful of soda, two tablespoonfuls of ginger, and one 
teaspoonful of cloves. Mix well. Be sure not to add any more 
milk or flour. Make exactly according to directions, and they will 
be found very nice. Roll very thin and bake quickly. — Mrs. 
Jesse L. Williams. 

GINGER SNAPS. 
One pint of molasses, one teacupful of butter, one tablespoon- 
ful of ginger, one-half tablespoonful of cloves, one teaspoonful 
soda; boil all together until thoroughly mixed. When cold add 
as much flour as you can mix in. Roll thin and bake quick. — 
Mrs. Dr. Chapman. 

GINGER NUTS. 

One pound of sugar, six eggs, one tablespoonful each of ginger 
and cinnamon, one teaspoonful each of cloves, soda and cream 
tartar; mix stiff, roll out and cut with biscuit cutter; bake on tins 
in a quick oven. — Mrs. J^ane Mayer. 

14 



IIO THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 

SUGAR GINGERBREAD. 

Two cupfuls of sugar, one of butter, four eggs, two-thirds tea- 
spoonful of soda, one-half of cream tartar, one nutmeg, some kind 
of essence, flour to make stiff; roll out on tin sheets, cut into 
squares when baked. — Mrs. Sadie Kimball. 

COOKIES. 

One and a half cupfuls of sugar, one of butter, three eggs, three 
teaspoon fuls baking powder, one-half scant cupful of sweet milk, 
flavoring and flour enough to make it stiff enough to roll out. — 
Mrs . Dr. Woodworth . 

NUT WAFERS. 

Two cups of sugar, one of butter, two eggs, beat thoroughly 
together, add flour enough to make a stiff dough, roll out thin, cut 
in cakes; wash the top with the beaten whites of eggs and sprinkle 
plentifully with hickory nut meats. Bake quickly. — Mrs. M. 
Bieber. 

DATE DROP CAKES. 

Two cups of sugar, two-thirds of butter, one cup of corn starch, 
mix with three-fourths of a cup of milk, five eggs, whites and yolks 
beaten separately, two cups of flour, three teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder. Bake in gem pans; after filling the pans seed a date and 
lay on top of each one. Bake a light brown. —Airs. M. Bieber. 

Cocoanut grated and put into any cookie recipe makes a nice va- 
riety- — L. K. 

CREAM COOKIES. 

One teacup of cream, (sour, ) two cups of sugar, two eggs, one 
teaspoonful of soda, more if the cream is very sour, flour stiff 
enough to roll. — Mrs. M. Bieber. 

GINGER SNAPS- 

One cupful of molasses, one-half of butter, one teaspoonful of 
soda, one of ginger, one of ground cloves, flour enough to stiffen, 
roll thin and bake quick. — Miss Dollie Ward. 



THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 1 1 1 

AUNT NELLY'S CAKE. -Very Nice. 

Five cupfuls of flour, two and a half of sugar, one of butter, one 
of sour milk, one teaspoonful of soda, roll it thin and cut out with 
a biscuit cutter and then cut a small hole in the center, beat up the 
whites of two eggs and wash the tops, and sprinkle sugar and cin- 
namon on them before baking; bake in a hot oven. --Miss Mary 
Hanks and Mrs. Jesse Williams. 

AUNT ELIZA'S COOKIES--Extra. 

Two cupfuls of sugar, one of butter, two eggs, four great table- 
spoonfuls of cold water, one and a half teaspoonfuls of saleratus, 
flour enough to roll out, season with lemon, bake lightly in a quick 
oven. — Mrs. C. D. Newell. 

clo\ 'K cookies. 

Three pounds of flour, one of butter, one of sugar, four eggs, 
rub the butter and sugar together, add as much molasses as will mix 
the flour, one teaspoonful saleratus, cloves (ground) to taste. -- 
Mrs. Jesse Williams. 

SOFT JUMBLES. 

Seven eggs, five cupfuls, of sugar, two of butter, one of milk, 
one nutmeg, one teaspoonful saleratus; beat the eggs, butter and 
sugar well together; have the milk warm, into which stir the salera- 
tus; flour enough to handle and roll out.- -Mrs. Jesse Williams. 

DROP CAKES. 

One and a half cupfuls of sugar, three of flour, one egg, one 
tablespoonful of butter, one teaspoonful of soda, two of cream tar- 
tar in one cupful of sweet milk, flavor highly and drop on buttered 
tins. — Mrs. Jesse Williams. 

JUMBLES. 

Three eggs, two cupfuls of sugar, one of butter, one teaspoonful 
of soda, dissolved in one-quarter cupful of cold water, caraway 
seed; mix soft and roll thin. — Mrs. J. B. Fairbank. 



THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 



CRULLERS. 



One-half pound of butter, one of sugar, four eggs, dissolve in 
a teacupful of thick cream, a teaspoonful of saleratus, rub your 
butter in some flour, add the sugar, pour in the cream, add the 
eggs, make as stiff as bread dough, roll out and cut in any shape 
you please, fry in hot lard. You can add a glassful of brandy and 
spices if you desire. — Mrs. Etta Joslyn and Mrs. Will Joslyn. 

CRULLERS. 

Three eggs, one cupful white sugar, three tablespoonfuls melted 
lard, three of cold water, and a little salt and soda. — Mrs Pool. 

DOUHGNUTS. 

Three eggs, one coffee-cupful of sugar, one of sour milk, one 
teaspoonful of soda, one-half of shortening, flour enough to roll 
out. — Jlfrs. Dr. Woodworth. 

DOUGHNUTS- 

Slices of peeled white potatoes dropped into the fat absorbs the 
sediment from the dough; that darkens the fat; take the potatoes 
out when black, and put in another piece. — L. K. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

Three eggs, two quarts of flour, three teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder, sift well together, add the eggs, one and a half coffee- 
cupfuls of white sugar, one and a half cupfuls of sweet milk, a piece 
of butter the size of a walnut, season to taste, mix until stiff 
enough to roll out; fry in hot lard. — Mrs. John Morgan. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

Two eggs, two cupfuls white sugar, one of sweet milk, one table 
spoonful melted butter, two teaspoonfuls cream tartar, one of soda, 
one of salt. — Mrs. Pool. 



THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 



113 



DOUGHNUTS. 

One egg, one cupful of sugar, one tablespoonful of butter, one 
cupful of sour milk, one teaspoonful of soda, a little ground cin- 
namon, and flour enough to roll thin; fry in hot lard. — Miss 
Dolly Ward. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

One cupful of sugar, one and a half of sour milk, six cupfuls of 
flour, two eggs, two tablespoonfuls of butter, one teaspoonful of 
soda. — Miss Emma Hardy. 

DO UGH NUTS WITHOUT EGGS. 

Two quarts of flour, three heaping teaspoon fuls of baking pow- 
der, sift well together, add two cupfuls of white sugar, one and a 
half of sweet milk, a piece of butter the size of a hickory nut; 
season to taste; mix until stiff enough to fry. — Mrs. J^ohn Morgan. 

RAISED DOUGHNUTS. 

One quart of bread dough that is ready to bake, mixed with two 
teacupfuls of sugar, two tablespoonfuls of shortening, roll thin and 
fry in hot lard. — Mrs. Martha Bieber. 

JELLY TURNOVER. 

To one quart of bread dough that is ready to bake, add one tea- 
cupful of sugar, two tablespoonfuls of shortening, roll thin and 
cut with a biscuit cutter, then stretch as thin as possible, put a 
lump of hard jelly in the center, moisten the edges, turn over and 
pinch firmly together, fry in hot lard. Are nicer when first made. 
Mince meat can be substituted in place of jelly, taking care to fold 
closely together ; also, any firm preserves. — Mrs. Martha Bieber 
Mrs. B. H. Kimball. 

FRENCH ROLLS. 

Boil and mash two potatoes, one quart of water and one-half 
cupful of yeast; stir stiff with flour and set away to rise; when 
light add one cupful of butter, two of sugar, three eggs, one table 
spoonful of cinnamon, one teaspoonful soda, two of cream tartar, 
one-half pound of dried currants, then roll out and bake on tins. 
— M r $- Jane Moyet . 



114 THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 

GERMAN CAKE. 

Three cupfuls of dough, one of sugar, one egg, one-half cupful 
of shortening, flour enough to make as stiff as bread dough; roll 
about as thick as biscuit and let it rise again till light, then spread 
butter over it and sprinkle sugar and cinamon on it. — Leana Wie- 
land. 



PRESERVES AND JELLIES. 



In selecting fruit to can, that which is not fully ripe should be 
taken and put up as soon as possible after picking. Small fruits, 
such as berries, should not stand over night it it can be avoided, 
use the best sugar, one-half pound to a pound of fruit, not quite 
so much with sweet fruits. When ready to can, first place the 
glass jars in a large pan of warm water on the back of the stove. 
Get the syrup ready in a procelain kettle; add the fruit, and by 
the time it is dune the jars will be ready for use. Take them out 
and set them on a hot dish ; fill as full as possible; set aside on a 
towel wet with hot water; let it stand a minute or two so that the 
fruit will shrink away a little; fill up with hot syrup or hot 
water if you have none, and then seal. In canning fruit with stones,the 
flavor is improved by leaving a few in. Be sure to screw the top 
of your jar air tight. Put away in a dark, dry place and watch 
two or three days. 

PINEAPPLE JAM. 

Boil together for each pound of grated pineapple, a pound oi 
double refined sugar. When it is boiled thick, which will be 
about fifteen minutes, if the quantity is small, put in tumblers; keep 
in a dry place. It is delicious. — Cousin Jennie. 



THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 115 

PRESERVED CITRON- MELON. 

Pare, core and cut into slices. To every six pounds of melon 
allow six pounds best loaf sugar, juice and grated rind Of four 
lemons, one-quarter pound root ginger. Boil the melon until 
clear and tender, drain and lay in a broad pan of cold water, 
cover and let it stand all night. In the morning tie the root 
ginger in a thin cloth and boil in three pints of clear water till it 
is highly flavored. Then take out, pour the ginger water over 
the sugar; when melted, set over the fire ; put in the grated rind 
of the lemons, boil and skim until no more scum rises. Then put 
in the citron and juice of the lemons, boil in the syrup until quite 
transparent and soft but not to break. While still warm, put the 
slices in wide mouthed jars and gently pour on the syrup. Lay on 
each a paper wet with the white of an egg. — Mrs. Biebent. 

APPLE CUSTARD. 

One pint of strained apple, one pint of cream, five eggs, sugar 
and cream. — Miss Emma Hardy. 

HOTCE POTGH. 

Take equal quantities of cling peaches, pears and apples that 
will not cook to pieces, put together and weigh. Take one-half 
the weight of coffee sugar, have the syrup boiling hot before adding 
the fruit, boil over a slow fire for three hours; put in stone jars 
and seal up with paper and white of an egg. — Mrs. Allen. 

MARMALADE. 

One peck of quince's, two pecks of nice ripe apples, pare and 
stew separately. Take a pound of sugar to a pound of the fruit; 
if the fruit is sweet three-fourths of a pound is sufficient. Mix 
well and cook about three-quarters of an hour, stirring all the 
time; then take out in small bowls. — Mrs. M ■ *jf- Graff. 

TO PRESERIE QUINCES. 

Peel the quinces and boil until a straw will pierce through them, 
then put them into the hot syrup and cook until red. The syrup 
should be made with a pound of sugar to each pound of the fruit. 
—Mrs. F. H Hall. 



Il6 THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 

RHUBARB JAM. 

Pare the stalks and cut it up small. To every twelve pounds of 
rhubarb add ten of sugar in lumps, with the juice and peel of a 
lemon, whicli must be taken out after the jam is boiled. Boil it 
with the sugar very slowly that the stalks may dissolve. This will 
not be less than one half hour. Must be stirred continually. — 
Mrs. Miller. 

PRESERVED GRAPES. 

Slip the grapes from their skins, save the latter, and put the 
pulps over the fire and heat them. They will dissolve to liquid. 
When heated enough to melt, strain through a coarse sieve to re- 
move the seeds. Put the juice and skins back into the kettle with 
three-fourths of a pound of sugar to a pound of fruit. The skins 
will fill up again with the pulp. They require very little cooking, 
as there is no water with them. — Mrs Randall. 

PRESERVED STRAWBERRIES — Very Nice. 

Take equal weights of strawberries and white sugar, put the 
sugar into a pan with merely water enough to dissolve it, and let it 
boil until the surface is covered with bubbles — about twenty min- 
utes — then put in the fruit with one pint of red currant juice to 
each pound of strawberries, which will improve the color of the 
berries; allow it to boil five minutes, good, and then put it into 
small jars. It is not necessary to use more sugar on account of 
the currant juice, as the berries themselves are sweet. — Mrs- 

Miller. 

PRESER TED PEARS. 

Sickle or Bartlett, halve them, take three-quarters of a pound of 
granulated sugar to a pound of fruit ; boil them first in water until 
you can put a straw through them ; have your syrup made and 
boil them in that until they are clear ; put in a glass jar and pour 
the syrup over them. When making the syrup put in a little sliced 
lemon and green ginger. — Mrs. Julia Porter. 

RHUBARB. 

If you want to imitate green apple sauce, cut up the rhubarb 
stalks into an earthen pie dish, sprinkle sugar over them, cover with 
a plate and set in the oven until soft — fifteen or twenty minutes. 



THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. Il7 

ORANGE MARMALADE. 

Weigh the oranges, and allow pound for pound of sugar, pare off 
the yellow outside rind of one-half the oranges as thin as possible, 
putting it into a pail with plenty of eold water; cover tight and 
boil slowly until soft enough to pierce with a straw easily; in the 
meantime grate the rind of the other half and put aside; squeeze 
the juice of the oranges through a sieve, then put the sugar into a 
kettle with one-half pint or less of water to each pound of sugar to 
clarify the sugar, when the sugar is dissolved put over the fire and 
skim until clear and thick; next take the boiled parings and cut 
into very small shreds, put them in sugar and boil ten minutes; 
then put in the pulp juice and grated rind and boil all together. It 
is a transparent mass. — Mrs. Nellie G . 

UJVIQ TIE PRESER YES. 

Gather small young cucumbers, lay them in strong brine for on e 
week; wash them, soak in soft water a day and a night, changing 
this four times. Line a bell mettle kettle with vine leaves, lay in 
the cucumbers with a little alum, fill up with clear water, cover 
with vine leaves, then with a close lid and green as for pickles; do 
not let them boil; when greened drop in ice water; when cold 
wipe, cut a slit in the side, dig out the seeds, fill with chopped 
raisins arfd citron, sew up with thread. Make a syrup, allowing 
one pound of sugar to each pound of cucumbers with a pint of 
water. Heat to a boil, skim and drop in the 'Cucumbers. Simmer 
one-half hour, take out and put upon dishes in the sun while you 
boil down the syrup with a few slices of ginger root added; when 
thick put in the cucumbers again, simmer five minutes, and put 
them in glass jars, tieing up when cold. This : is -copied from 
Marion Harland's "Common Sense," because of its oddity. She 
says 'it is a singularly delicious sweetmeat." 

TO KEEP PRESERVES. 

Apply the white of an egg to a single thickness of white tissue 
paper, with which cover the jars, lapping over an inch or two. It 
will require no tieing, and when dry^will be very tight and strong. 

*5 



Il8 THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 

GREEN TOMATO PRESERVES. 

Eight pounds of small green tomatoes, pierce each with a fork, 
seven pounds of sugar, the juice of four lemons, one ounce of gin- 
ger and mace, use the ginger root; heat all together and boil until 
the tomatoes are clear; skim them out and spread upon dishes to 
cool; boil the syrup thick, put the fruit into jars and cover with 
hot syrup. — Mrs. B. H. Kimball. 

APPLE JAM. 

Weigh equal quantities of brown sugar and good sour apples; 
pare, core, and chop them fine, make a good clear syrup of the 
sugar, add the apples, the juice and grated rind of three lemons 
and a few pieces of white ginger. Boil until the apple looks clear 
and yellow. On no account omit the ginger. — -Dolly W. 

STRA IVBERR Y JAM. 

Put the fruit into a jar and stand it in a pan of boiling water 
over the fire until cool. Keep mashing the berries, after which boil 
the juice to the proper consistency, adding to every pound of juice 
three-quarters of a pound of white sugar. — Miss]Louisa Ward. 

A MICE WA Y TO BAKE APPLES- 

Fill | your baking pans with medium sized ;ipples which have 
been nicely pared and cored, fill the cavities with sugar and pieces 
of butter and put them in the oven, having first pouted a little 
water over them; flavor as desired. Omit butter if not wished so 
rich . — Mrs. Will Stockb ridge. 

CODDLED APPLES. 

Peel the apples, leaving the stems on, and put as many as will 
stand into the preserving kettle, put in a little water and let them 
boil until they are tender, take them out carefully, allow a cupful 
of sugar to three apples, put it int© the water they were boiled in 
and boil ten minutes. Peel a lemon very thin in very narrow 
strips, lay them around the stem of the apple, put them in the syrup 
and boil until they are clear. Put them into the dish in which 
you send them to the table and pour the syrup over them. Will 
not keep for more than three or four days. — Aunt Sarah. 



THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. II9 

SUGGESTIONS FOR MAKING JELLIES. 

A friend says : "Instead of making jelly in summer, when there 
is so much to do, can the juice and make when wanted." Jelly is 
always nicer when fresh. She has tried it for two years. 

TO CLARIFY SUGAR. 

The whites of three eggs, with the shells broken in, will clarify a 
large procelain kettle full of sugar. The scum which will rise on 
the top must be carefully removed. For maple sugar, use the 
white of one egg with the shell to two pounds. Jellies and pre- 
serves are much nicer with clarified sugar. — Mrs. Jesse Williams. 

ORANGE JELL ) '. 

Soak one-half box gelatine in a cupful of cold water for half an 
hour. To one and one-half cupfuls of orange juice and the juice 
of one lemon, add one cupful of sugar. Pour one and one-half 
cupfuls of boiling water on the gelatine; stir until all is dissolved 
and add the juice. Pour into glasses or moulds. — Miss Emma 
Hardy, Mrs. John Hough. 

LEMON JELL Y. 

Take one pound of loaf sugar, six eggs, the juice of six lemons 
and the rind of two, one-fourth pound of butter. Put the sugar, 
butter and lemon in a saucepan and melt slowly; when all are dis- 
solved, stir in the eggs which have been well whisked. Stir rapid- 
ly until as thick as honey. If keep air tight will keep a year. — 
Miss Hattie Woodward. 

WINE JELLY. 

One-half box Cox gelatine in one-half pint of cold water; let it 
stand two hours, then add one pint of boiling water, one-half pint 
of sherry wine, two lemons, rind and juice, which add to the gela- 
tine and cold water, with fourteen tablespoonfuls of sugar; strain 
and pour into glasses or moulds.— Miss Ella Moore, Mrs. Addie 
Hoivard, Mrs Julia Porter. 



120 THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 

WTME JELLY. 

One box of gelatine, soak two hours, then stir in well the juice 
and grated rind of two lemons, one pint of boiling water, one pint 
of sugar, one and one-half pints of wine. — Mrs. John Hough. 

GEL&TLNE. 

One box Cox's gelatine, add one pint of cold water, the juice of 
four lemons and rind of two. Let it soak one hour, then pour on 
thr^e pints of boiling water, add two pounds of white sugar. Strain 
and set in a cool place to jelly. —Mrs. Mattie Little, Mrs. Hattie 
Chapman. 

LEMOM JELLY FOR T&RTS. 

Beat one egg and one cupful of sugar together; when well mixed 
add the juice of one lemon and two tablespoonfuls of cold water. 
Put in a shallow dish, set on the stove, stir steadily until it thickens, 
then take off immediately. Do not let it boil. When cool, put in 
the tarts. — Mignon. 

CURRENT JELLY. 

Strain the juice, and to every pint allow a pound of sugar, put 
in one-half the sugar, boil about fifteen minutes, then add the re- 
mainder of the sugar which has first been heated, taking it off just 
as it comes to a boil. — Mrs. Jesse Williams. 

CRttjVBERR Y JELL Y- 

Pick over the fruit and boil till soft in water enough to cover it. 
Strain through a sieve and weigh equal quantities of the pulp and 
sugar; boil gently fifteen or twenty minutes, taking care it does not 
bu rn . — Miss Dolly Ward. 

LEMOM BUTTER. 

Three eggs, three lemons grated fine, one pint sugar, butter the 
size of an egg; stir all together and steam until it thickens. — Mrs. 
J. L. Worden. 



THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 



DRINKS. 



COFFEE. 

A heaping tablespoonful to each person will make good coffee, 
allowing a little extra for evaporation. To one cup of ground 
coffee, stir in an egg, add one quart of boiling water, boil it ten 
minutes, take it off, turn a cupful out of the spout, and back again 
into the pot. Let it stand where it will be warm, but not boil for 
ten minutes. Have the spout of the pot stopped up with a roll of 
cloth or paper to prevent the esc ape of the flavor. 

COFFEE FOR ONE HUNDRED. 

Take five pounds ground coffee, mix with six eggs. Make 
small muslin sacks, place a pint in each, leaving room for it to 
swell. Put five gallons boiling water in a large coffee boiler; put 
in part of the sacks and boil one hour: five or ten minutes before 
serving, add one or two more sacks, and if you continue serving, 
add the sacks at regular intervals, taking out those first put in 
from time to time, thus making your coffee seem fresh all the time. 
— Mrs. Robinson. 

CHOCOLATE. 

To one square of Baker's chocolate, (the unsweetened, ) take one 
quart of water, one pint of milk; set the milk and water on the 
stove; when it boils, stir in the chocolate previously grated, stir- 
ring all the time till all dissolved; boil a fuw minutes then serve. 
If boiled too long will be oily. This is sufficient for four persons. 
Laura K. 



122 THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 

A DELICIOUS DRINK. 

Horsford's Acid Phosphate makes a delicious drink with water 
and sugar only. Is a pleasant and nutritious substitute for lemons 
or limes in making lemonade. No danger can attend its use and 
the cost is very moderate. Is an agreeable tonic. 

FLAX SEED LEMONADE. 

Pour a quart of boiling water over four spoonfuls of flax seed; 
cover closely and steep three hours. Sweeten to taste with loaf 
sugar, adding the juice of two lemons and a little more water if 
too thick. Is good for a cold. — L. K. 

CURRANT SHRUB. 

To a pint of strained currant juice put one pound of sugar, boil 
gently together eight or ten minutes, then set it where it will cool, 
and when lukewarm add a wineglassful of brandy to a pint of 
syrup. Bottle and cork it tight and keep it in a cool place. — 
Mrs. Jesse Williams. 

LEMONADE WITHOUT LEMONS. 

Tartaric acid one-half ounce, three of loaf sugar, little essence 
of lemon. Powder the tartaric acid and sugar very fine, mix them 
together, pour on the essence of lemon, a few drops at a time, mix 
thoroughly and divide into twelve parts, wrapping each up sepa- 
rately in white paper. When wanted dissolve in cold water, and 
you will have a good lemonade. It is a nice drink for persons who 
are traveling. — Mrs. Barnes. 

CREAM NECTAR. 

Take six pounds of refined sugar, four ounces tartartic acid, two 
quarts of water, and when warm add the whites of four eggs beaten 
to a froth. Be careful that it does not boil. When cool strain it 
and add a teaspoon ful ot essence of lemon: Directions for use : 
Take two tablespoonfuls of the above syrup to a glass filled two- 
thirds full of water, and add a very small quantity of carbonate of 
soda, and stir well until it effervesces. Drink immediately. Make 
the syrup in a procelain or brass kettle. — Mrs. Jesse Williams. 



THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. I 23 

BLA G KB ERR Y CO RDM L. 

To each quart of juice add a little less than one pound of sugar, 
one ounce each of cloves, cinnamon and allspice. Boil nearly an 
hour, strain the liquid from the spices, or better still, have the 
spices tied in a bag loosely. When cool, add two tablesp oonfuls of 
New England rum or brandy, and bottle tight. — Mrs. Henry 
Little. 

BLACKBERRY CORDIAL. 

Put the blackberries in a jar plunged in a kettle of boiling water, 
till they are a "mush," press or strain out the juice, add one pound 
of loaf sugar to two quarts of juice, one-half ounce each of cinna- 
mon, cloves and allspice put in whole, boil until the strength is 
extracted. When cold, skim out the spices, add a pint of good 
brandy, bottle and seal the corks. — Mrs. Hugh McCulloch, Mrs. 
L. G. Kimball. 

RASPBERRY SHRUB. 

To three quarts of mashed raspberries put one of good vinegar, 
let it remain a day, then strain it and put to each pint one pound 
of white sugar. Boil the whole together for one-half hour. Skim 
it clear. When cool add one wineglassful of brandy to each pint 
of the shrub. Two tablespoon fu Is of this mixed with two-thirds of 
a tumblerful of water is a refreshing drink in a fever. Bottle and 
cork tight and keep in a cool place. — Mrs. Jesse Williams. 

BLA C KB ERR Y SE R UB. 

Put the berries over a moderate fire and let them simmer till they 
break to pieces, then strain through a flannel cloth, to each pint of 
juice put one pound of white sugar, one-half ounce of cinnamon, 
one-fourth pound of mace and six teaspoonfuls of cloves, all pul- 
verized. Boil the whole together fifteen minutes, strain it, when 
cool add to each pint of syrup one wineglassful of French brandy. 
Bottle, cork and seal it; keep it in a cool place. This, mixed with 
cold water in the proportion of a wineglassful to two-thirds of a 
tumblerful of water, is an excellent remedy^ Tor dysentery. — Mrs. 
Jesse Williams. 



124 THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 

ELDERBERRY WINE. 

Squeeze the elderberries through a wine press, take as much 
again water as juice, three pounds of sugar to a gallon of the water 
and juice, put in bottles or large jars until it ferments; when it 
stops bottle it up. — Mrs. parties Cairns. 

CURRANT WIXE. 

Squeeze the currants, to every gallon of juice add two of water 
and nine pounds sugar; let it stand until it ferments; when done 
fermenting, bottle tight. — Mrs. Geo. L. Little. 

CURRANT WINE. 

Wash the fruit and squeeze out the juice. Put to the pulp as 
much cold water as you have juice and let it stand over night, then 
strain and pour into the juice, and add three pounds of sugar to a 
gallon of the mixture. Set in a cool place and bottle in February. 
— Mrs. Dr Knapp. 

GINGER POP. 

Cream tartar one pound, ginger one and one-half ounces, white 
sugar seven pounds, essence lemon one drachm, water six gallons, 
yeast one-half pint. Mix, tie the corks down. 

LEMON BEER. 

Commence early in the morning. Take two large lemons, cut 
them in slices, and put them into the pot or jar in which you are 
going to make your beer. Now take a pound of white sugar and 
put it over the lemons, add one gallon of boiling water, stand it 
away until it is cool, and then put in one-quarter cupful of yeast. 
Let it stand until it ferments. Bottle it in the eveniug in stone 
jugs, cork it tight. This is an elegant and refreshing drink in 
summer — Mrs. L. B. 

WHITE SPR UCE BEER. 

Three pounds of loaf sugar, five gallons of water with enough of 
essence of spruce to give it a flavor, a cupful of good yeast, a little 
lemon peel if you choose, and when fermented bottle it up close. 
It is a delightful beverage in warm weather. 



THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. I 25 

GOOSEBERRY CHAMPAGNE. 

Three gallons of soft water (measured after being boiled) to six 
gallons of gooseberries fully ripe. Wash and put them into a stone 
jar, pour on the boiling water and cover the jar. Let it stand 
eight or nine hours, then strain, adding to each quart of liquor 
three-quarters of a pound of sugar. Let it stand eight or nine 
hours. Stir several times and pour into a cask of proper size. As 
soon as it stops hissing stop it close, adding one pint of brandy to 
every gallon of wine. Bottle it k three or four months — in cold 
weather. Refine by allowing to every gallon the whites of two 
eggs, beaten to a froth, with one teaspoonful of salt. Put two or 
three raisins in each bottle. — Mrs. Dr. Knapp. 

GRAPE WINE. 

Take a gallon of good Delaware grapes and add one gallon of 
water after bruising the grapes. Let it stand for eight days and 
then draw it off. Then add to each gallon of water three pounds of 
sugar, stirring it in well. Let it stand over night, when it can be 
bottled for use. If allowed to stand three or four months it will 
be equal to imported wine. — Mrs. L. B. 

MILK PUJVCH. 

Add one or two tablespoonfuls of brandy, whisky or Jamaica 
rum to a tumblerful of milk. Sweeten and grate nutmeg on top. 

The three above preparations are very desirable when a patient 
is recovering from any low form of fever, when nutritious articles 
must be given in small quantities. 



16 



126 THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 



PICKLES 



CHOPPED PICKLES. 

One-half bushel green tomatoes, same of green cucumbers, one 
peck white onions, two dozen green peppers, one large bunch of 
celery, three ounces celery seed. Pack all down in salt twelve 
hours. Squeeze and scald pure cider vinegar and pour over it. — 
Mrs. Julia Porter. 

CHILI SA UCE. 

One large onion chopped fine, six green peppers (remove the 
seed) chopped fine with the onion, twelve good ripe tomatoes, after 
removing the skins. Put all in a pan, add one tablespoonful of 
salt, one of brown sugar, two cupfuls of vinegar, one teaspoonful 
ginger, one of cloves, one of cinnamon, one of allspice, one nut- 
meg; stew all gently until cooked, and bottle for use. — Mrs. J. B. 
Morse and Mrs. Beals. 

PE&CH MANGOES. 

Wash and wipe the peaches, cut them in half, fill them with 
grated horse-radish, mace, cinnamon, cloves and white mustard 
seeds. Put them into a jar, boil together one pound of sugar and 
three pints of vinegar, with the same spices. After it is cool, pour 
over the peaches. — Mrs. Jesse Williams. 

CUCUMBER CATSUP. 

Take cucumbers that are half grown, grate them and press the 
juice out thoroughly, add vinegar to make it the consistency of 
catsup, season with pepper and salt to taste and seal up before put- 
ting away, for when made air tight it can be kept for years. — Mrs. 
Mattic H. Little and Mrs. Hankins. 



THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 12^ 

MANGO PICKLES. 

Take one hundred mangoes of all sizes. They should be grown 
quick, that is quite green and tender. Put them in brine seven 
days, then wash them in clear water, pack them in large stone jars, 
with fresh vine leaves. Sprinkle in for the above quantity two 
ounces of powdered alum. Fill up the jars with boiling water, 
cover tight and let them stand all night. Have in readiness and 
well washed two quarts of finely scraped horse-radish, and two 
quarts blanched celery cut in pieces, two quarts button onions, two 
pounds white mustard seed, one and a half of black, ounce of mace 
broken in small bits, one-half ounce of cloves, one ounce of cin- 
namon broken fine, two of allspice, one of black pepper, (whole). 
Mix these ingredients well together with pieces of melon, small 
cucumbers, one quart of sterna seed, radish pods, chopped cabbage 
to fill up the mangoes with. Sew in each bung with a coarse 
thread, pack them in jars and cover with the very best cider vine- 
gar. It is very important to use good vinegar. — Mrs. Charles 
McCulloch, Miss Emma Hardy, Mrs. G. L. Little. 

RED CABBAGE. 

Cut fine and salt; add spices to taste; boil the vinegar, and 
when cold pour over the cabbage. — Mrs. Brown. 

CHOW CHOW. 

To one peck of green tomatoes add three good sized onions and 
six green peppers, first removing the seeds, chop together until fine 
and boil three minutes in three quarts of vinegar; throw this vin- 
egar away after straining, then to two quart of vinegar when scalding 
hot add two cupfuls of sugar, one cupful mixed mustard, one table- 
spoonful of ground cloves, one of allspice, two of cinnamon, three 
of salt and two of celery seed. Pour over the tomatoes hot. — Mrs. 
Hattie Chapman and Mrs. Mattie Little. 

GOOSEBERRY C&TSUP. 

One pound of gooseberries, one-half of sugar, one gill of vine- 
gar, and spices to taste. — Mrs. J. B. Morse. 



128 THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 

VERY NICE SL&W. 

Take one head of cabbage, chop — not too fine — sprinkle pepper 
and salt over it and then take one-quarter pound of butter, let it 
melt slowly, then add three tablespoonfuls of flour, one pint of hot 
water, one pint of vinegar, letting all boil, then add the yolks only 
of five eggs. Remove from the fire. Do not pour this over the 
cabbage tilPhalfanThour before it is sent to the table. — Mrs. Wm. 
B. Douglass. 

GREEN PEPPER M&NGOES. 

Cut the^tops out and flay in salt water for two days. Cut cab- 
bage up*fine,add some mustard, allspice and cloves, put them in 
the pepper and tie the tops on, place them in the jars and pour the 
vinegar over, and in a few weeks they are fit for use. — Mrs. 
Brown. 

GREEN TOMATO PICKLE. 

To one peck of chopped tomatoes add one pint of salt, let it 
stand over night, then drain and scald in vinegar. Put to every 
peck of tomatoes three heads of cabbage, six green peppers, two 
tablespoonfuls of cinnamon and black pepper. — Mrs. Judge Wor- 
den. 

GREEK CURRANT CATSUP. 

Five pounds of stemmed currants, two pounds of sugar, one pint 
of vinegar. Season' with'jtwo ounces of cloves, two ounces ot cin- 
namon. Boil over steady fire two hours. — Mrs. Will Stockbridge- 

TOMATO CATSUP. 

One bushel of tomatoes, boil'until soft, squeeze them through a 
fine wire sieve, add half a gallon of vinegar, half a pint of salt, two 
ounces of cloves, one-quarter *of allspice, one-half of cayenne pep- 
per and five headsloffgarlic^skinned an df; separated. Mix| together 
and boil about three hours, or' until reduced about one-half, then 
bottle without straining. — Mrs Jesse Williams. 



1 HE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. i 2y 

TOMATO CATSUP. 

One bushel of tomatoes, boil until < soft, then squeeze through a 
hair sieve, add one pint salt, half gallon vinegar, quarter pound 
allspice, half ounce cloves, half ounce cayenne pepper, one table- 
spoonful black pepper, half ounce white mustard seed. Boil until 
reduced about one-half. When cold enough add one pint of 
brandy, then bottle up.- -Mrs. George L. Little. 

TOMATO CATSUP. 

Pare the tomatoes, salt and let them stand over night. Pour off 
the juice and boil the tomatoes. Strain through a sieve. To two 
quarts of tomatoes take one ounce of cloves, two of pepper, two 
nutmegs, two tablespoonfuls each of allspice, cinnamon and must- 
ard, one quart of vinegar. Boil some time after adding spices. 
Put in vinegar last — Mts. J. B. Fairbank.. 

TOMATO CATSUP. 

Boil two gallons of peeled and sliced tomatoes until reduced to 
one gallon, strain through a sieve and add one pint of strong vine- 
gar and one ounce of whole cinnamon and two ounces of whole 
cloves, two tablespoonfuls of salt, one onion. Let it boil thor- 
oughly, then skim the spices off. Bottle air tight. Good for five 
years. — Mrs. Sol. D. Bash. 

EAST INDIA SA UCE. 

One gallon of chopped cabbage, two of green tomatoes, squeez- 
ing out the juice after chopping, three tablespoonfuls of ground 
mustard, two of pepper, cloves and allspice, each, one gill of mus- 
tard seed, one pound of sugar, three quarts good vinegar. Boil 
fifteen minutes. — Mrs Win. Cottingham. 

CURRANT CATSUP. 

Ten pounds stewed currants, three pounds sugar, one pint vine- 
gar, one tablespoonful each of cinnamon, cloves, allspice and black 
pepper, one-half of salt. Boil all together very fast for half an 
hour. — Mrs. [esse Williams. 



L$0 1'HK HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 

CHOW CHOW. 

Slice ^-reen tomatoes, sprinkle salt over them and let them stand 
all night. In the morning squeeze out the juice thoroughly, then 
to one gallon of chopped tomatoes put one-half gallon of strong 
vinegar, one pint of grated horse-radish, four green peppers, a 
tablespoonful each of ground mustard, cinnamon, allspice, cloves 
and pepper, and then bottle for use. Does not need to be cooked. 
Mrs. Lizzie Cutshall and Mis. B. H. Kimball. 

CHOW CHOW. 

Two quarts of small onions, four of small pickles, and three 
good sized cauliflowers. Cut the cauliflower and pickles in small 
square pieces and soak all in good strong salt water over night, 
then rinse off well and boil in vinegar until tender, mix one pound 
of best black ground mustard and table oil with enough vinegar to 
mix well with, then stir in while boiling, and just before taking 
from the fire add three ounces of fine red peppers, and it is ready 
to bottle. If made properly, this chow chow is equally as nice as 
any you can buy, and is much less expensive. — Mrs. A. C. Keil. 

SHIRLEY S& If CE --Extra Mce. 

Two dozen large ripe tomatoes, four onions, four peppers, four 
tablespoonfuls of sugar, two ounces of salt, four cupfuls of vinegar- 
Scald the tomatoes and slice them up. Chop the onions and pep- 
pers. Add sugar and salt and vinegar. Boil two hours. Can be 
made with canned tomatoes. — Mrs. M. Twombly and Mrs. M. 
Kimball. 

CtiBBrtGE DRESSING. 

Two eggs, one teaspoonful salt, one of mixed mustard, one cup- 
ful of vinegar. Add last half cupful of boiling water. Put all on 
the stove and let it come to a boil. — Mrs. Julia Porter. 



THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. I3I 

SPANISH PICKLES. 

One peck of green tomatoes sliced, same quantity of onions, or 
less will do, four cauliflowers or one head of cabbage; all to be 
salted twenty-four hours before pickling. Drain well and mix with 
one ounce of tumeric, one of cloves, one of cinnamon, one pound 
of white mustard and small cucumbers. Putin a kettle in layers, 
cover .with vinegar and boil until tender. Watch closely, for it 
burns easily. — Miss Hattie Woodworth. 

HOT PICKLES. 

Three quarts best vinegar, eight ounces salt, two ounces ginger, 
one-half of mace, one quart of shalotts, one-half tablespoonful of 
cayenne pepper, one ounce mustard seed. Boil all together half 
an hour and put in a stone jar. Gather what vegetables you like, 
wipe clean and put into the pickle. — Mrs. J^csse Williams. 

PICKLED ONIONS. 

One peck of small onions. Peel and lay them in salt water for 
three days. Make the water strong enough to bear an egg. Take 
them out and put them to soak in fresh water for one day, then put 
them in milk and let them come to a boil, when drain until dry. 
Place them in jars with red pepper pods, boil the vinegar, allspice, 
cloves and mace together, and when lukewarm put it on the onions, 
and in a few days they are fit for use. — Mrs. Brown. 

PICKLES. 

Wipe your pickles clean. Put ! them in a firkin or jar, then 
cover with boiling water at night. Measure the water next morn- 
ing to ascertain how much is required to cover them. Then take 
as much vinegar as you had of water, and to every gallon, (of vine- 
gar) add one teacup of salt, one great spoonful of alum, one hand- 
ful of whole cloves. When it boils hard pour it boiling hot over 
the pickles. Cover them up to keep the steam in and keep cov- 
ered till used. — Aunt Ann. 



I32 THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 

CUCUMBER PICKLES. 

Wash the cucumbers nicely, place them in a stone jar, make a 
brine of salt and water, pour over them and let them stand over 
night, then draw off the brine. Have ready enough good cider 
vinegar to cover them, add a small lump of alum and some cloves, 
cinnamon and allspice tied up in a bag; place the whole over the 
fire, let it come to a boil, then pour over the cucumbers; let them 
stand three days closely covered, then boil the vinegar, pour over 
them again, let them stand three days more; boil and pour over, 
cover tight and set away tor use, boiling hot. — Mrs. Pool . 

CUCUMBER PICKLES. 

Make a brine strong enough to bear up an egg, put in small cu- 
cumbers, let them stand twenty-four hours, then pour a off L and'put 
over the fire. Let it come to a boil, then skim and pour^boiling 
hot over the cucumbers. Do so for three mornings, then drain off 
the brine, pour on boiling hot water, let it stand twenty-four hours, 
then dry off and pack in jars, putting first in the jar slips ofhorse- 
radish; pack tightly, mixing horse-radish all through, then to one 
gallon of pickle sprinkle in one pound of brown sugar, one ounce 
English mustard, one of allspice, one of cinnamon, alum size of a 
small hickory nut, and pour good cider vinegar over them. — Mrs. 
D. B. Strove. 

SPICED CUR R&XTS — Fern Mice. 

Three pounds stemmed currants, two of brown sugar, one-half 
tablespoonful ground cloves, same of allspice and cinnamon, one- 
half pint cider vinegar. Boil down to a jam. Will keep for a 
year or two if you don't eat it up. Splendid with cold meat. — 

Mrs. &nn Magoun. 

SPICED CUCUMBER PICKLES. 

Scald your pickles nine mornings in saltwater, then use cider 
vinegar, four pounds of sugar to one gallon of vinegar; red pep- 
pers and spices to taste. — Mrs- .Jerry Mudije- 



THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 1 33 

SPICED TOMATOES. 

Take tomatoes, (green,) slice them thin, lay them in jars in lay- 
ers, salt and tomatoes alternately. Let them stand over night, then 
take them out and scald in clear water, drain them dry, then take 
one gallon of cider vinegar, four pounds of sugar, spice to taste 
with one-quarter pound each of cinnamon and cloves; have the 
vinegar hot to pour over the tomatoes. The above preparation 
will do for four gallons of sliced tomatoes. — Mrs. Jerry Mudge. 

SUPERIOR PICKLED APPLES. 

Take a peck of sweet apples and pare them, boil until tender in 
a syrup made of four pounds of sugar to one quart best cider vine- 
gar, then remove them from what is left of the syrup and make a 
new one of five pounds of sugar and one quart of vinegar, to which 
add two teaspoonfuls each of cloves and cinnamon tied in a bag; 
let this boil fifteen or twenty minutes and pour while hot over the 
fruit, then can and seal. The first syrup can be easily used up for 
other sauces. — Mrs. Will Stockbridge. 

SPICED PE&CHES. 

One pint of vinegar, two pounds of sugar, one teaspoonful of 
each kind of ground spices tied up in a bag, steam the peaches 
until you can put a straw through them, boil the syrup until thick, 
then scald the peaches in it three mornings in succession, boiling 
the syrup down if it becomes thin from the peaches standing in it. 
— Aunt Sarah. 

SPICED PE&RS. 

For seven pounds of pears, three pounds of sugar, one quart 
vinegar and spice to taste. — Mrs. J. M. Humaston. 

SPICED PEACHES. 

Five pounds of peaches, two of brown sugar, one quart of vine- 
gar, one ounce each of cinnamon, cloves and mace, wipe and cut 
the peaches in half, boil them until done in the sugar and vinegar. 
Take out the fruit, put your spices, tied in a bag, in the syrup, boil 
well and pour on the peaches. — Mrs. Jesse Williams. 

17 , 



134 THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 

SPICING FRUIT. 

To three pounds of fruit, one ounce of cinnamon, one of cloves, 
one pint of vinegar, one pound of sugar. Boil the sugar and 
spices down to a syrup, then add the fruit and boil until done. — 
Mrs. Joslyn. 

SWEET PICKLES- 

One gallon of fruit, two quarts of sugar, three pints. of vinegar, 
six cents worth of mace, cinnamon and cloves. — Mrs. Julia Por- 
ter. x 

SPICED GRAPES. 

One and a half pounds of sugar, one quart of vinegar, cinnamon 
and cloves to taste. Let it come to a boil, skim it well, put the 
grapes in a stone jar in bunches and pour the syrup on top. Re- 
peat three or four times. — Mrs. D. H, Wright and Mrs East. 

WATER MELON PICKLES. 

Prepare your rind by peeling off the green part, cut them in 
slices, soak them over night in water, in which salt and alum have 
been dissolved, then pour that off and soak them in fresh water 
over night. Then to eight pounds of rind dissolve four pounds of 
sugar, put in a few pieces at a time and cook them till a fork will 
penetrate them easily, skim them out and put in more. When all 
are cooked drain the juice from and put it in your kettle, add one 
ounce of whole cloves and one ounce of stick cinnamon, and half 
an ounce of sliced white ginger to a gallon of the pickles. If 
wished, sliced lemon can be used instead of the other spices. 
After adding spices or lemon boil fifteen or twenty minutes, then 
place them in a jar, pour the syrup over them and when perfectly 
cool add one pint of vinegar. You will have nice preserves if the 
vinegar is not added. — Mrs. Barnes and Mrs. B. H. Kimball. 



THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 1 35 

SPICED CHERRIES. 

To seven pounds of fruit take four of brown sugar, one and a 
half pints of vinegar, one ounce of cloves, two ounces each of cin- 
namon and mace, spices put in a bag and boiled in vinegar and 
sugar, then pour it over the fruit. Let it stand three days, drain 
off and boil down a little, so doing from three to five days, pour- 
ing it hot over the fruit each time. Seal up air tight. — Mrs.J. B. 
Fairbank and Mrs. J^ane Moyer. 

CHICKEN SALAD. 

Yolks of four eggs, one small tablespoonful of mixed mustard, 
one teaspoon ful salt, one-half a bottle of oil. Beat some of the 
oil in the mustard and some in the egg, then mix it and beat it 
well, add last one-half cupful of vinegar, one chicken and four 
heads of celery. Sufficient for five persons. — Mrs, Julia Porter. 

CHICKEJV salad. 

Two large chickens boiled, the yolks of nine hard boiled eggs, 
half pint of sweet cream or salid oil, half pint of vinegar, one gill 
of mustard mixed, a small teaspoonful cayenne pepper, one tea- 
spoonful salt and four large heads of celery chopped fine. — Miss 
Hattie Woodward. 

CHICKEN StfltfD. 

Boil bone and chop fine three chickens, Take equal quantities 
of chicken and chopped celery, mix with the following dressing: 
Yolks of three eggs, stir with a fork then mix in slowly a cup of 
melted butter, salt to taste, add a teaspoonful of powdered sugar, 
cup of vinegar and a very little red pepper. — Mrs. J?. M. Seymour. 

CHICKEN S&LAB. 

Two heads of celery chopped fine, two boiled chickens chopped 
fine, ten hard boiled eggs; chop the whites, rub the yolks to a 
paste, one tablespoonful made mustard, one-half cup vinegar, one- 
half cup of butter, few cucumber pickles chopped very fine; stir all 
together with a silver fork. Cabbage and lettuce will do when you 
can not get celery. This is very nice. — Florence S. 



I36 THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 



DRESSING FOR SALAD. 

One egg, one tablespoonful of cream, one tablespoonful of white 
sugar, three of vinegar, one tablespoonful of olive oil, one of made 
mustard and a little salt. 

POTATO SALAD. 

Chop fine one small onion, slice thin twelve cold potatoes, sea- 
son with pepper, salt and three tablespoon fuls of vinegar, one of 
made mustard, two of salad oil; mix thoroughly. It is very nice. 
A little chopped celery improves it. Is good without, however. — 
Mrs, F. H. Hall. 

LOBSTER SALAD. 

One can lobsters, one egg boiled hard, mash the yolk fine, add 
one teaspoonful mixed mustard, little salt, oil enough to thicken it, 
one tablespoonful of vinegar and one head of lettuce. — Mrs, Geo. 
L, Little, 

FRENCH MUSTARD. 

Take quarter of a pound of the best fine yellew mustard, pour 
over it vinegar enough to make a thin paste, add a pinch of salt 
and a small piece of calemus root. Set it on the stove and while it 
boils stir in a tablespoonful of flour previously wet with a little 
water, as quick as possible. Let it boil for twenty minutes, stir- 
ring constantly. Just before it is done stir in a teaspoonful of 
honey. When cool put in bottles and cork tight. Is very nice. — 
Miss Laura Kimball. 

CHICKEX SALAD. 

Two boiled chickens picked up small, two large heads of celery, 
yolks of nine hard boiled eggs, half pint melted butter, half pint 
of vinegar, one gill of mixed mustard, half teaspoonful of cayenne 
pepper and two teaspoonfuls of salt. — Mrs T. M. Biddle. 



THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. I37 

PICKLED OYSTERS. 

Take as many oysters as you wish, put them in a kettle with a 
little boiling water and a teaspoonful of salt; just let them scald 
quick, take them out and put in a collander to drain, then take the 
liquor off the oysters and add to the boiling water and boil a few 
minutes, then strain and take one cupful of pure cider vinegar to 
half a cupful of the water in which they were boiled, till you have 
enough to cover the oysters, put it on the stove and boil, adding 
one tablespoon ful of allspice, one of whole black peppers, break 
up some mace, not very fine, add as much red pepper as you 
choose and boil altogether five minutes; have the oysters ready 
in a dish, and when the liquor is lukewarm pour it over the oysters. 
If prepared in the morning they will be ready for use in the even- 
ing. — Miss\Dolly Ward. 



DISHES FOR THE SICK, 



It is very necessary for a sick person when recovering to have 
everything nice to tempt the appetite, and some of the slops made 
up and called good are detestable. The following recipes I know 
to bejjdesirable, and there are many people who know nothing 
about their preparation.— Dr. W. C. Chapman. 

TOAST WATER. 

Toast a slice of stale bread half an inch thick until of a uniform 
brown color. Re careful not to scorch it. Pour over it a pint of 
boiling water, let it stand closely covered until cool, then strain 
and it is ready for use. May be sweetened a little if more palata- 
ble to the patient. 



138 THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 

RICE WATER. 

Take four tablespoon fills of rice and boil for an hour and a half 
in two quarts of water, Will have about a quart of rice water as 
the result, which may be sweetened and flavored to taste with nut- 
meg or cinnamon. 

OAT MEAL GRUEL. 

Add two tablespoonfuls of oat meal to a pint of boiling water 
then add half a pint of milk and a little salt, simmer for half an 
hour, strain, sweeten and flavor with nutmeg. Raisins are accept- 
able as an addition in many cases. 

-LIME WATER AND MILK." 

It is useful when nothing else can be retaind on the stomach. 
Slack a lump of lime as large as an egg in a quart of water. Stir 
frequently and allow to remain for twenty-four hours, then pour off 
the clear fluid from the sediment. To a wineglassful of this clear 
lime water add a wineglassful of fresh milk. A tablespoonfuf of 
the mixture may be taken as frequently as desired, 

BARLEY BROTH. 

Boil gently for half an hour one-half pint of pearl barley in a 
gallon of water, take three pounds of lamb chops with the fat cut 
off, or a rib soup bone, and put in a stew pan with water to cover; 
add any kind of vegetables, carrots, turnips, onions, celery or to- 
matoes, cut them up fine, and when tender add to the barley water 

and boil slowly two hours. — Mrs. Will Kimball. 

\ 

CHICKEN BROTH. 

Clean half a chicken, put into a stew pan containing a quart of 
cold water with salt to the taste, add a tablespoonful of rice and 
boil slowly for two or three hours. Skim and take out the skin 
which has separated from the meat and add a little parsley or 
onion. 



THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 1 39 

PdNsiDd. 

Toast a slice of bread brown, the crust having been previously 
removed, cut into small squares, place in a bowl and sprinkle with 
salt and nutmeg; pour into it a teacupful of boiling water, and al- 
low it to stand until cool. A teaspoonful of sherry' wine improves 
the flavor. 

BEEF ESSENCE. 

Chop a pound of lean beef the same as for beef tea, put it into a 
pint bottle corked loosely, or a covered vessel without water, im- 
merse the vessel in a stew pan of cold water, bring the water to a 
boil and let it boil for two hours. Pour off the essence and season 
with salt and pepper. Add onion and parsley if desired to render 
more palatable. 

BEEF TEti. 

Chop a pound of lean beef into small pieces, pour over it a pint 
of cold water, cover and stand before the fire for two hours. 
Afterward boil for half an hour. Remove all the scum and oil, 
salt to the taste and also add a little pepper. Pour off but do not 
strain. 

WINE WHEY. 

Add a wineglassful of Maderia or Sherry wine to one-half a pint 
ofboiling milk, strain through muslin, sweeten the whey to taste 
and grate into it a little nutmeg. 

EGG &ND WINE. 

Beat up a raw fresh egg and stir with two tablespoon fuls of wine. 
May or may not sweeten, according to taste. 



The remaining recipes have been gathered from other sources ; 



140 THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 

EGG GRUEL. 

Beat the yolk of an egg with a spoonful of white sugar and then 
beat the white to a stiff froth; pour a teacupful of boiling water on 
the yolk, then stir in the white. Add cold milk or wine to taste. 

Mix one large teaspoon ful of currant or blackberry jelly in a 
glass of cool water. Drink moderately. 

StiGO PUDDING; OR GRUEL. 

Into boiling water slowly stir sago until the consistency wished, 
and cook about twenty minutes, or until it is clear. May be eaten 
with cream and sugar. 

s&go tMst. 

One tablespoonful of sago boiled in half a pint of milk and 
water, with a little salt. When boiled clear pour upon crackers 
split and toasted nicely on both sides. 

SOFT TOtiST. 

Toast two thin slices of bread, put them in a warm plate and 
pour boiling water over them, cover quickly with another plate of 
the same size and drain the water off; remove the upper plate, but- 
ter the toast, put it in the oven one minute, then cover with a hot 
plate and serve at once. 

TXPIOCrt GRUEL. 

Soak tapioca over night in twice the quantity of water, then add 
milk and water, boil until soft, making the consistency to suit 
yourself. 

T&PIOC& CUP PUDDING. 

One tablespoonful of tapioca soaked for two hours in nearly a 
cupful of new milk. Stir into it the yolk of a fresh egg, a little 
sugar, salt and bake in a cup for fifteen minutes. A little jelly 
may be eaten with it if allowed, or a few fresh strawberries. 



THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 141 

GR&H&M MUSH, OR PORRIDGE. 

Made of boiling water and unsifted Graham flour stirred in the 
same manner that Indian meal mush is made, stirring in a little at 
a time until the consistency wished. Boil hard fifteen or twenty 
minutes. At water cures no salt is allowed, but "out in the world" 
the taste of the people is not sufficiently regenerated to do without 
it. To be eaten with sugar and cream, or milk, if one is suf- 
ficiently "convalescent" to admit of it. Dates stirred in just be- 
fore taking from the fire makes a pleasant addition, 

MILK AND EGGS. 

Beat up a fresh egg with a little salt, pour upon it a pint of boil- 
ing milk, stirring all the time Serve with or without toast. 

INVALID tiPPLE PIE. 

Slice up one or more nice tart apples in a saucer, sweeten with 
white sugar and cover with a moderately thick slice of bread but- 
tered slightly on the under side; when the bread is browned the 
apple, if of a tender kind and thinly sliced, will be done. 

Slippery elm and date water is cool and nourishing for sick peo- 
ple. Take a tumblerful of nice plump dates, or of slippery elm, 
put into a pint of cold water and let it stand until it becomes thick 
like mucilage. There is a great deal of nourishment in it. 

ARRO W ROOT JELL Y. 

Wet two heaping teaspoonfuls of Bermuda arrow root in a little 
cold water and rub smooth, then stir into it a cupful of boiling 
water, with two teaspoonfuls of sugar melted in it •; stir until clear, 
boiling steadily all the time, and add one teaspoon ful of lemon 
juice, Wet a cup in cold water and pour the jelly in. Eat cold, 
with sugar and cream, flavored to taste. Sago can be used if you 
soak it first one hour in cold water. Boil a little longer than you 
do the arrow root. 

WAFERS. 

Mix Graham flour to a rather stiff dough with milk and a little 
salt, cut into round cakes and roll again almost as thin as letter 
paper; bake quickly; can be mixed with water; are very simple 
and palatable, and are nice with any kind of soup or broth, espe- 
cially with oyster soup. 
18 



142 THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 

A FEW COMMON REMEDIES FOE SICKNESS. 



The bark and burs of the prickly ash are stimulant and tonic, are 
almost a sovereign remedy for cold feet and hands and all diseases 
dependent on a sluggish or languid circulation, Dose — from one- 
half to one teaspoonful of the powdered bark and berries. ' 

Smart weed produces powerful sweating, is an ex client remedy 
to break up a cold when threatened with a fever. It may be drank 
in tea at liberty, 

Motherwort will ease pain in nervous headache. 

Boneset is laxative, tonic and expectorant. A tea made from the 
leaves and flowers and taken warm will evacuate the stomach in a 
gentle and safe manner. Taken cold, it acts as a laxative and 
tonic. Is useful also in coughs and colds. 

Dandelion is an excellent corrector of the bile. 

Sage is useful in fevers and for worms in children. 

Balm of Gilead buds or arnica flowers steeped in alcohol are 
excllent for dressing wounds. 

If young children are troubled with bowel complaint, keep a 
flannel band bound snugly around through all the hot weather. It 
supports the bowels, keeps them warm and helps when diet and 
medicine some time fails. 



THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 1 43 



A LIST OF PLAIN DINNERS AND BREAKFASTS. 



These are only intended as suggestions to aid in solving the ever 
recurring problem, "What shall 1 get to eat?" 

DINNERS FOR WINTER. 

Roast turkey, celery, cranberry sauce, boiled onions, mashed 
potatoes browned, mashed turnips — desert. 

Leg of mutton boiled, then roasted, cold slaw, baked potatoes, 
turnips, sweet potatoes, apple dumplings. 

Soup, mutton sliced and warmed over, roast potatoes, fried pars- 
nips, mince pie. 

Fish chowder, boiled potatoes, baked cabbage, pickled beets, 
apple pie. 

Beefsteak, pie, vegetables, batter pudding 

Roast beef, stewed onions, cold slaw, browned potatoes, "poor 
man's pudding." 

Chicken pot-pie, vegetables, cocoanut pudding. 

Bean soup, roast pork with apple sauce, squash, beets, potatoes, 
baked Indian pudding. 

Roast venison with currant jelly, chicken salad, vegetables, 
Brown Beaver (pudding). 

Boiled corn beef, vegetables, rice and raisins, with sauce. 

Boiled fowl stuffed with oysters, vegetables, cranberry sauce and 
bird's nest pudding. 

Oyster soup, roast veal, celery, vegetables, suet pudding. 

Baked pork and beans, boiled codfish, mashed potatoes, pickles, 
apple sauce, corn meal, suet pudding, 

Baked fish with nice gravy, vegetables, lemon pie. 

Oyster pie, beefsteak, vegetables, Eve's pudding. 

Roast chicken, vegetables, cranberry or apple pie. 

Boiled lamb, baked potatoes, pickled beets, rich pudding. 

Roast pork with apple sauce, vegetables, batter pudding with 
''foam sauce." 

Scollop made from cold meat, vegetables, blow-ups. 



144 THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 

SEEING AND SUMMER,. 

Soup, roast veal, vegetables, rhubarb pie ; fruits and berries are 
always nice for desert. 

Chicken pie, vegetables, tapioca pudding. 

Beefsteak, canned tomatoes, asparagus, dried peech roll. 

Baked fish, vegetables, cranberry sauce, cottage pudding. 

Mutton chops, codfish toast, vegetables, maple syrup pie. 

Knuckle of veal stewed with rice, fried potatoes, stewed pota- 
toes, lemon pie. 

Boiled fish with egg sauce, meat hash, vegetables, queen of pud- 
dings. 

Roast lamb, new potatoes, lettuce, rhubarb pie. 

Fish chowder, vegetables, cold slaw, baked Indian pudding. 

Lamb stew with potatoes and greens, currant dumplings. 

Veal pot-pie, vegetables, salad batter pudding. 

Veal cutlets, mashed potatoes, horse-radish, lemon pie. 

Roast chicken, vegetables, salad, currant pie. 

Roast beef, omelet of asparagus, vegetables, snow pudding. 

Veal stuffed and roasted, vegetables, love pudding. 

Fish stuffed and baked, vegetables, Winthrop House pudding. 

SUMMER. 

Rabbit pie, new potatoes, green salad, gooseberry pie, 
Lamb chops, potatoes, string beans, sliced tomatoes, currant pie. 
Fish chowder, vegetables, Virginia pudding. 

Shoulder of veal stuffed, asparagus, potatoes, salad corn starch 
pudding, with strawberries and cream. 

Beefsteak, vegetables, blackberry batter pudding. 
Chicken pie, vegetables, huckleberry pie. 
Roast lamrj, green peas, potatoes, lettuce, custard pie. 
Corned beef, vegetables; cherry pot-pie. 

Mutton chops, succotash, tomatoes, potatoes, batter pudding. 
Veal and sago soup, vegetables, cold meat, green corn pudding. 
Roast chicken, vegetables, cold meat, green corn pudding. 
Roast chicken, vegetables, cocoanut pudding. 
Roast beef, cauliflower, succotash, etc., tipsey pudding- 
Tomato soup, cold sliced beef, vegetables, peach cobbler. 
Fried chicken, vegetables, brown beaver pudding, 



THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 1 45 

Beefsteak pie, succotash, baked sweet potatoes, every day pud- 
ding. 

Corn and chicken pie, vegetables, huckleberry pudding. 

Lamb chops, vegetables, batter pudding. 

Shoulder of veal stuffed, vegetables, corn starch pudding. 

Veal scallop, vegetables, tapioca pudding. 

Beefsteak, vegetables, green corn pudding. 

AUTUMN. 

Roast prairie chicken, apple sauce, vegetables, suet pudding. 

Shank end of leg of mutton stewed with rice, stewed tomatoes, 
fried potatoes, peach pie. 

Cold mutton, mashed potatoes, browned salad, other vegetables, 
peach cobbler. 

Sirloin of beef roasted, vegetables, porcupine pudding. 

Cold meat, corn oysters, baked stuffed tomatoes, suet pudding. 

Corned beef, cabbage and other vegetables, apple pudding pie. 

Mutton chops, vegetables, acid pie. 

Vegetable soup, cold smoked tongue, baked potatoes, pickles, 
fruit for desert. 

Fish chowder, vegetables, snow pudding. 

Oyster pie, salad, vegetables, queen of puddings. 

Boiled ham, vegetables, baked Indian pudding. 

Fried fish, egg plant, baked cabbage, apple pie. 

Ribs of beef roasted, vegetables pickles, squash pie. 

Oyster soup, cold meat, vegetables, love pudding. 

Baked pork and beans, vegetables, boiled Indian suet pudding. 

Beefsteak, vegetables, cocoanut pie. 

Spare rib of pork, apple sauce, vegetables, pumpkin pie. 

Boiled chops, vegetables, Winthrop House pudding. 

Young gouse parboiled and then roasted, mashed potatoes, apple 
sauce, cold slaw, suet pudding. 

BREAKFASTS 

Beef hash, corn bread, stewed tomatoes, toast. -\ 
Cold roast beef, fried potatoes, apple sauce and biscuit. 
Fried ham and eggs, stewed apples, hominy and bread. 
Mutton chops, fried potatoes, Graham gems. 
Meat croquet, toast, omelette, berries. 



146 THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 

Cold meat, rice cakes, warmed over potatoes, cold bread. 

Fresh eggs boiled, fried potatoes, muffins, sauce. 

Broiled ham, corn bread, sliced tomatoes, toast. 

Broiled chicken, toast, omelette and jelly. 

Broiled mackerel, potatoes warmed up, sliced tomatoes and 
Johnny cake. 

Corn cake, pork chop, fried apples, and Graham bread. 

Sausage cakes, boiled potatoes and bread cakes. 

Fried Indian mush, ham broiled, poached eggs, bread. 

Minced chicken, buckwheats, boiled eggs, potatoes warmed over 
in milk. 

Veal cutlets, muffins, fresh strawberries. 

Corned cold beef, cabbage chopped fine and warmed over with 
vinegar and butter, French rolls. 

One of the " Breakfast Dishes," under "Made Dishes," in this 
book, stewed potatoes, muffins and sauce of some kind. 

Cold meat, French toast, baked potatoes, berries- 

Fried fish, potatoes, salad and biscuit. 

Minced veal, toast rice and sliced oranges. 

Codfish balls, stewed potatoes, gems, lettuce or radishes. 

Broiled mackerel, fried mashed tomatoes, Johnny cake, lettuce 
or radishes. 

Lamb chops, muffins and tomatoes. 

Beefsteak, tomatoes, Graham bread, apple sauce. 

Scrambled codfish, baked potatoes, bread and berries. 

Boiled eggs, warmed over potatoes, toast, lettuce or radishes. 

Fried liver, potatoes, biscuits or muffins. 

Codfish and potatoes warmed together, Graham gems, sliced to- 
matoes. 

Poached eggs, baked potatoes, bread and berries, 

Pork chops, fried apples, baked potatoes, Graham bread. 



THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 1 47 



SUNDRIES. 



LINIMENT. 

This has often given relief in rheumatism, pain in the side, stiff 
neck and other cases of severe pain when other applications have 
failed. The Volatile Liniment (made by mixing four spoonfuls of 
sweet oil with two of spirits of ammonia) add one of spirits of 
camphor and one of laudanum. It will be more efficacious if the 
parts affected can be thoroughly heated after it has been well rub- 
bed in. — Mrs. Martha Hough. 

PALATABLE CAS TOE OIL. 

If the nauseous stuff must he given, the bad taste may be re- 
moved by boiling it with twice the quantity of milk, sweetened a 
little with sugar, to be taken when cool enough. — Mrs. Will 
Stockb ridge. 

FURNITURE POLISH— Excellent- 

( )ne-half pint boiled linseed oil, one gill vinegar, one ounce but- 
ter of antimony, put the three liquids in a bottle and shake. Sat 
urate a piece of flannel cloth or cotton batting and apply a thin 
coating over the part to be cleansed and then rub off again. Dry 
thoroughly with a dry soft rag. — Mrs. C. L. Smith. 

TO CLEANSE SILK OR WOOLEN GOODS- 

One pint of alcohol, one of Orleans molasses, one of soft soap. 
Put the ingredients in a bottle or jug, let it stand twenty-four 
hours, shake well before using; have your goods ripped and well 
shaken, then lay it on a smooth surface, take a sponge, dip it in the 
liquor, rub it thoroughly on both sides. Have two pailfuls of hot 
rain-water, take each piece as soon as it is well rubbed, hold it 
by the corners and rinse it up and down first in one pail and then 
in the other, hang it over a smooth stick to drain, then proceed in 
the same way until each piece is cleansed. Iron when half dry. 
Turn down the corner of each piece so that you can tell which is 
the right side when it is wet. — Mrs. S, J. McKenzie. 



I48 THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 

TO CLE AM BLACK SILK. 

Take two old black kid gloves, put them in a quart of water and 
boil to a pint, sponge the dress thoroughly and iron on the wrong 
side. 

TO RESTORE LUSTRE TO BLACK SILK. 

Pare and slice two raw potatoes of ordinary size into half a pint 
of water and let them stand all night. In the morning sponge the 
s ilk with the water, not wetting too much, and iron the wrong side. 
— Mrs. Will Stockbridge. 

TO CLEAN KID GLOVES- 

Have a piece of common brown soap, a little milk, (sweet,) and 
a piece of flannel. Draw the glove on the hand, just moisten the 
flannel in the milk, rub it on the soap, and then apply briskly to 
the glove, rubbing afterward with a dry flannel. Take a portion of 
the glove at a time. Is best for any shade of lemon. Have made 
such look as good as new. — Mignon. 

WASH FOR THE SKIM- 

This will remove tan, freckles or moth patches without injury to 
the skin. Take a quarter of an ounce of pulverized borax, the 
same of pulverized saleratus, two ounces of muriate of ammonia, 
Put the ingredients into a tin pan and pour on four quarts of boil- 
ing soft water, stir until melted. When used apply with a sponge. 
It makes a nice wash in summer by putting a half teacupful of it 
in the water in which you wash. — Mrs. W. S. Buck. 

FOR RESTORING THE HALR. 

One ounce glycerine, one ounce sage, one ounce flower nut gall, 
one ounce lobelia, half ounce ginger, one teaspoonful salt, two 
ounces bay rum. Strain, then bottle and perfume as you please. 
— Mrs. Jane Moyer. 



THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 1 49 

LOTION FOR TEE FACE. 

Five cents each of bay rum, magnesia, snowflake, bergamot, 
and oil of lemon. Mix in a pint bottle and fill up with rain water. 
Perfectly harmless and splendid. — Mrs. J. L. Gruber. 

TO REMO VE FLESH WORMS. 

These disfigurements to the face can be removed by washing 
thoroughly with tepid water, rubbing with a towel and applying 
with a soft flannel a lotion made of three ounces of cologne and 
one-half ounce of liquor of potash. — Mrs. J. L. Gruber. 

MIXTURE FOR WASHING CLOTHES. 

Take six quarts of water and two pounds of soda ash, and heat 
them. When hot pour it on one pound of pulverized lime, stir, 
when dissolved let it settle, when cool add six quarts of cold water 
and use one cupful to a boiler of clothes. — Miss Jennie Cunning- 
ham. 

TO MAKE THE HAIR GROW. 

Bay rum one-half pint, rain water one-quarter pint, glycerine 
one ounce, acetic acid one-half ounce. — Mrs. John Cairns. 

Equal parts of pure glycerine and rose water applied every night 
and allowed to dry, will remove freckles. 

MIXTURE FOR COUGHS. 

Take one quart of best cider vinegar, put six eggs in it until the 
shell is all eaten off; leave them in for forty-eight hours, then take 
your eggs out, beat them until they become light, then put them 
back in your vinegar, strain all through a coarse towel, add to the 
eggs and vinegar two pounds of loaf sugar and ten cents worth of 
pine tar; leave the tar in about eight hours, then take it out; it 
will remain on top. Cork the remainder up in a bottle. Take 
three times a day or oftener if required. — Mrs. Davis. 

RECEIPT FOR CLEANING GLOVES, ETC. 

Sulphuric ether one drachm, chloroform one drachm, alcohol 
two drachms, deodorized benzine two pints, oil of wintergreen two 
drachms. — Miss Bessie Hassler. 
l 9 



150 THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 

DIRECTIONS FOR BLEACHING CLOTH. 

To twenty yards of cloth take one-quarter pound of chloride of 
lime dissolved in hot water enough to wet the cloth thoroughly. 
First wet the cloth in clear hot water, then put it in the lime water 
and let it remain ten or fifteen minutes; then rinse in clear water 
and hang up to dry. It does not hurt the cloth as some other prep- 
arations do, as I have tried it repeatedly. — Mrs. Bond. 

DIRECTIONS FOR SETTLING DOUBTFUL COLORS. 

Dissolve in a pail of water one ounce of sugar of lead; in this, 
soak the garments over night, next morning iorning out and dry 
thoroughly before washing. Have tried on the delicately colored 
children's hose and found it perfectly satisfactory. — Mrs. E. T. 
Davis. 

FOR CHAPPED HANDS OR FACE. 

Glycerine two parts, tincture of benzoine one part, little tannin 
and rose water, or ten cents worth of glycerine, tincture of 
benzoine five cents, with the tannin and rose water. — Bessie 
Hassler. 

CURE FOR EARACHE. 

Take a small piece of cotton batting or cotton wool, make a de- 
pression in the centre with the finger and fill it up with as much 
ground black pepper as will rest on a five cent piece; gather it into 
a ball and tie it up, dip the ball in sweet oil, insert it in the ear, 
covering the latter with cotton wool and use a bandage to retain it 
in its place. Almost instant relief will be experinced and the ap- 
plication is so gentle that an infant will not be injured by it, but 
experience relief as well as adults. — Mrs. E. T. Davis. 

"PAINT WHITEWASH." 

Slack one bushel of stone lime and mix with it forty gallons of 
water, then add slowly, stirring well, twenty pounds of Spanish 
whiting, seventeen pounds of rock salt and twelve pounds of raw 
sugar ; mix thoroughly. Is a good wash for fences, barns, &c. 
Does not wash or rub off easily. — -Mrs. James Hatnilton. 



THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 151 

BLUIKG FOR CLOTHES. ' 

One ounce of Prussian or China Blue, the latter when you can 
get it. Put it into a bottle with one quart of clear rain water and 
add one-quarter ounce of oxolic acid (pulverized). One teaspoon- 
ful is sufficient for a large wash. It does not settle as some bluing 
does. — Mrs. D. B. Strope, M?s. B. H. Kimball and Mis. Addie 
Howard. 

TO MAKE HARD SOAP. 

Pour four gallons of boiling water on six pounds of sal soda, and 
three pounds of unslacked lime. Stir the mixture well and let it 
settle perfectly clear. It is better to let it stand all night, as it 
takes some time for the sediment to settle. When clear, strain the 
water, put six pounds of grease with it and boil for two hours, 
stirring most of the time. If it does not seem thin enough, put 
another gallon of water on the grounds, stir and drain off and add 
as is wanted to the boiling mixture. Its thickness can be tried by 
occasionally putting a little on a plate to cool. Stir in a little 
handful of salt just before taking off the fire. Have a tub ready 
soaked to prevent the soap from sticking; pour it in and let it stand 
until solid, when you will have from the above ingredients about 
forty pounds of nice white soap. — Mrs. Jesse Williams. 

TO MAKE SOFT SOAP. 

Slice up four pounds of white bar soap into four gallons of soft 
water and add one pound of sal soda. Mix and dissolve it thor- 
oughly over the fire and set aside for use. One-fourth pound of 
borax improves it. — Mrs. Nellie Lord, Mrs. Smith. 

FOR MAKING INK. 

Ten grains of bi-chromate potash, one-half ounce ext. logwood. 
Dissolve in' one quart of rain water. Leave the bottle uncorked 
for eight or ten days. 

LIME WATER FOR EGGS. 

Two gallons of water, one pint of salt, one pint of unslacked 
lime. Do not put in the eggs till the day after the lime water is 
prepared. — Mrs. John Hough. 



152 THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 

MIXTURE FOR TAKING GREASE OUT OF MR- 
PETS OR ANYTHING ELSE. 

Aqua Ammonia two ounces, soft water one quart, salpetre one 
teaspoonful, shaving soap one ounce, finely scraped. Mix well, 
shake and let it stand a few hours or days before using, to dissolve 
the soap. When used pour on enough to cover any grease or oil 
that has been spilled, sponging and rubbing well and applying 
again if necessary; then wash off with clear cold water. An old 
carpet that was covered with grease spots, was perfectly cleaned by 
this. Use a clean new scrubbing brush to apply the mixture on 
carpets, a sponge for thinner fabrics. This is "handy to have in 
the house," as it is good for so many things. Is death to bedbugs 
if put in the cracks and crevices which they inhabit ; will even re- 
move paint from a board if oil was used in the paint ; will not in- 
jure the finest fabrics; is an excellent shampoon for the head. — 
Mrs. Will Stockbridge. 

TO IMPROVE STARCH. 

Take two ounces of fine gum arabic powder, pour on it a pint or 
more of boiling soft water, cover and let it stand all night, then 
pour off carefully, cork it and keep for use. One tablespoonful in 
a pint of starch. — Mrs. S. B. 

TO CLARITY MOLASSES. 

Common molasses can be clarified and made palatable by heat- 
ing it over the fire and pouring in sweet milk in the proportion of 
one pint to a gallon of molasses. When it boils -up once the milk 
collects all the impurities in a thick scum on the top, which must 
be carefully removed, and the molasses is then fit for use. 

SALVE FOR BURNS OR SORES. 

One cup of linseed oil, a piece of yellow beeswax the size of a 
small egg; let them melt together and come to a boil, then pour 
off in a jar and it is ready for use. Nothing can be better or more 
easily made. — Mrs. Will Stockbridge. 



THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 1 53 

CORNED BEEF. 

One hundred pounds of beef, five pounds of salt, two of sugar, 
two ounces of saltpetre, two and one-half gallons of soft water. — 
Mrs. Jesse Williams, Mrs. John Hough, Mrs. Will Stockbridge, 
Mrs. N. B. Young. 

CORNED BEEF OR HAM. 

To one hundred pounds of beef, five pounds of salt, five pounds 
sugar, two ounces saltpetre; boil the ingredients together till per- 
fectly dissolved, and pour it over the meat when cold. Put in 
sufficient water to cover the meat well. — Mrs. Sol. D. Bash. 

SAUSAGE MEAT. 

Two pounds of lean meat, one of fat pork, chop fine and mix 
well with it two teaspoonfuls of black pepper, one of cloves, seven 
of powdered sage and n*vc of salt. — -Mrs. James Cairns. 

TO SWEETEN PTE PLATES. 

Place them in a boiler or large kettle of water, throw in a few 
hot ashes or cinders and boil for an hour. It will remove the un- 
pleasant taste they acquire after much baking in them. 

CORKED BEEE. 

To eight gallons of water, add two pounds of brown sugar, one 
quart molasses, four ounces of saltpetre and fine salt until it will 
float an egg. This is enough for two common quantities of beef. 
Has been repeatedly tried and found very fine. — Mrs. Jesse Wil- 
liams. 

A PREPARATION TO SOAK CLOTHES, EOR 
WASHING IN. 

Heat one pint of soft soap and put in a spoonful of kerosene oil, 
put the clothes in the tub in the evening, put as much water as is 
needed to cover them in the boiler, make it hot, put half of the 
soap into it, stir it up and pour over the clothes, let them stand till 
morning, then have your boiler of water ready, put the remainder 
of the soap in it, wring the clothes out and dry, rubbing any very 
dirty places a little, put them into the boiling water, just let them 
boil up once, then take them out and rinse in two waters. Have 
tried this and know it to be excellent. 



154 THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 

SAUSAGE MEAT. 

Twelve pounds of pork, four ounces of salt, two ounces of pep- 
per and sage to taste. — Mrs. John Hough. 

EARTH FOR MOUSE PLANTS. 

Equal parts of soil from the sides of a barnyard, well rotted 
manure, leaf mold from the woods or earth from the inside of an 
old tree or stump; add a quantity of sand. 

TO CLEAN HAIR BRUSHES. 

Dissolve a lump of soda in cold water and wash the brush with 
it; do not set it near the fire nor in the sun to dry, but after shak- 
ing it well set it up on the point of the handle in a shady place. 

WASH FOR CLEANSING GENTLEMEN'S CLOTHES. 

Alcohol four ounces, ammonia three ounces, rain water two 
ounces, pearlash two ounces, and three teaspoonfuls of castile 
soap. — Mrs. C. B. Brokaw. 

CHEAT AND NICE VINEGAR. 

Save the parings and cores of apples, put them in a jar with 
warm rain water, enough to little more than cover them, set in a 
warm place for several days, then strain and add one pint of mo- 
lasses to a gallon of the water, put in a jar, tie a thin cloth over it. 
keep in a warm place, and in from one to two weeks you will have 
good vinegar. — Mrs. Ann Kimball. 

TO TAKE OUT INK. 

Dip the spots in pure melted tallow, wash out the tallow and the 
ink will come out. 

DIRECTIONS FOR DYEING COTTON 

Blue — One ounce Prussian blue, half ounce oxolic acid to one 
and a half pounds of rags. Dissolve the acid in rain water first, 
then the Prussian blue in the acid water, have the water warm but 
not let it boil; rinse in cold water and dry in the shade. 



THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 1 55 

Yellow — To five pounds of rags, twelve ounces of sugar of lead, 
dissolve in a tub of cold water, six ounces of bichromate of potash, 
dip the cotton first in the sugar of lead, wring out, then dip into 
the potash water, then in the lead, and so on till you have a bright 
color; dry and wash in suds. 

Green — First dip in the yellow, then in the blue until you have 
the desired color. 

Orange- -Dip the yellow into boiling hot lime water, put a lump 
of lime as big as your fist into a pail of water, let it settle, dip off 
the top and dip your cloth in it and rinse in cold water. 

Pink — One pound of madder, one ounce of alum, steep the 
madder, dip the cloth in the alum water and boil in the madder; 
wash in soap suds. 

Brown — Gum catchu, one pound; blue vitriol, nine ounces; bi- 
chromate of potash, three ounces ; this will color five pounds of 
goods; boil the gum and vitriol together two hours, then add the 
bichromate of potash. 

FOR WOOLEN GOODS- 

Black — For two pounds of yarn, one pound of logwood chips or 
two and a half ounces of extract of logwood, one ounce of bichro- 
mate of potash; let it lay in the potash water and simmer one 
hour, take it out. let it drain, then rinse, put it in logwood dye and 
simmer one hour, rinse and dry, then wash in soap suds. 

Cochineal — In a kettle of soft water put one ounce of powdered 
cochineal, let it boil a few minutes, then pour in one ounce of 
solution" of tin, two ounces of cream tartar, stir well and let it boil 
a short time, then dip in one poui\d of the goods while boiling, 
let it lay two hours, airing it often.— Mrs. M. Hamilton. 

TO TAKE UT FR UIT STAINS. 

Dip the garment in milk, dry it and then wash it. — Mrs. Ninde, 



I c; 6 THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 

IRON MOULD AND INK SPOTS. 

Wet the spots with milk and then cover with common salt, wash- 
ing the garment afterward. ' 

CEMENT. 

When an iron vessel, stove or stovepipe is cracked, the opening 
may be stopped with a cement made of ashes, salt and water. 

TO MAKE BAB BUTTER GOOD. 

Put it into a large dish with a very little baking soda, pour 
plenty of soft water over it and let stand several hours, then work 
thoroughly so as to wash out the milk, then break into small pieces, 
put them into another bowl, pour on cold water, work it a short 
time, and then salt it a little and put away for use. — Mrs. B. H. 

TO PURIFY RANCID LARD. 

Take an ounce or two of chloride of soda and put into a gallon 
of soft water; when it is nearly boiling hot put your lard in and 
let it boil from one to two hours, according to the quantity you 
have, then take it off and set aside to cool; when cold take the 
lard off the water, give it a boil by itself in the usual way, let it 
cool again and your lard will be sweet. — Mrs. S. B. 

To prevent shoes from creaking rub a little olive oil on the sole, 
especially about the waste and ball of the shoe. In boots intended 
for out of door wear, avoid letting the oil get into the seams as it 
might dissolve the wax on the thread and cause leakage. 

Chlorine water will take out ink spots. 

TO RELIEVE ASTHMA. 

Soak blotting or brown paper in strong salpetre water. Dry and 
burn at night in your bedroom, or any time when suffering from 
the disease. Keep the room closed so that the patient can inhale 
the smoke from it. — Aunt Ann. 



THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 157 

ANTIDOTES TO POISON. 

For any poison, swallow instantly a glass of cold water with a 
heaping teaspoonful of common salt and one of ground mustard 
stirred in. Is a speedy emetic. When it has acted, swallow the 
whites of two raw eggs; if you have taken corrosive sublimate, 
take half a dozen raw eggs besides the emetic; if laudanum, a cup 
of very strong coffee; if arsenic, first the emetir and then half a 
cup of sweet oil or melted lard. 

TO COLOR BLACK. 

To one pound of cloth one ounce extract of logwood, half ounce 
blue vitriol, let it scald in the vitriol water twenty minutes, take it 
from the vitriol, rinse it, saving the water, let it scald in the log- 
wood water half an hour, then take it out and air well, then add 
the vitriol water to the logwood and let the (loth scald fifteen 
minutes longer. It will not rub off. 

A very pretty stripe for a carpet is made by taking two contrast- 
ing or some bright color and white (we have crimson and white) 
cutting the rags in pieces five inches long and sewing the colors 
alternately, get the weaver to be a little careful in weaving it and 
make into clouds or steeples — we like clouds the better. It is very 
pretty when just woven in as it comes. I have one strip that I tied 
the skeins of white rags with new unbleached factory for two or 
three inches, with intervals of six or seven inches, then dyed it 
dark blue. It is very pretty and not much work. 

To Dye Blue — For eight pounds of rags, make a strong solution 
of one pound of alum, dip the rags in first, then a few at a time in 
a small quantity of water containing Prussian blue, then add a 
little more of the blue to this water and to this water dip a few 
more rags and so on. Required about eight ounces of Prussian 
blue. It is much better than using oxalic acid to set the color. 
It is cheaper, more durable and of a brighter color, and the acid 
will injure the goods. 

Dyeing Green — Dye the rags first blue, then yellow; or, for a 
different shade, reverse, 

30 



158 THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 

To Dye Yellow — For eight pounds of rags take five ounces of 
bi-chromate of potash and seven ounces of sugar of lead. Dis- 
solve the bi-chromate over night in warm water, warm the dye, 
dip first in the sugar of lead solution, four gallons of water for 
each. 

A Dark Tan Color — To five pounds of cloth, one pound of 
japonica, eight ounces bi-chromate of potash, two tablespoonfuls of 
alum. Dissolve the japonica and alum in soft water enough to 
cover the goods. Wash the goods in suds and put them in the 
dye; let them stand two hours at scalding heat, then set them aside 
Until the next morning with the goods in the dye. Dissolve the 
bi-chromate of potash in soft water to cover the goods put them in 
and let them remain an hour at scalding heat, air them and wash 
in soft water suds and dry. 

Cochineal— To one pound of yarn stir briskly into water enough 
to cover it, one ounce of cream tartar. When the heat has in- 
creased a little add two ounces of powdered cochineal, stir well, 
add two ounces solution of tin; when the liquid boils put in the 
goods and move it around briskly for twenty minutes, rinse well in 
cold water, — Inter- Ocean. 



The following recipes were given the compiler by an experi- 
enced druggist : 

LINIMENT FOR BURNS AND SCrtLDti. 

Oil of sweet almonds one ounce, lime water two ounces; mix 
and apply with camel hair pencil, then cover with cotton batting. 
It is excellent. 

OLD REMEDY FOR WHOOPING COUGH. 

Salts tartar, pulverized cochineal, each twenty grains; sugar, 
sixteen grains; water, four ounces. Mix. Dose for an infant, one- 
half teaspoonful; for a child one to three years old, one teaspoon- 
ful. 



THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. I 59 

LINIMENT FOR RHEUMATISM, SPRAINS, GOUT, &c. 

Oil origanum, oil cedar, oil hemlock, chloroform, laudanum, 
tincture capsicum, each one ounce, alcohol, eight ounces. 

.DIARRHCEA AND CHOLERA MIXTURE. 

Tincture rhubarb, capsicum, peppermint, laudanum, each one 
ounce; French brandy, one half pint. Dose, one teaspoonful. 

LOT I OX FOR CHILBLAINS. 

Muriate ammonia half ounce, water four ounces, muriate acid 
one drachm, alcohol one and a half ounces. Mix and apply morn- 
ing and evening. 

EYE WASH. 

Sulphate of zinc five grains, sugar of lead thirty grains, rose 
water three ounces. Mix and apply frequently with soft linen 
cloth. 

FOR TOOTHACHE. 

Chloroform one and a half ounce, fluid extract of aconite one 
drachm, alcohol one ounce, morphine eight grains. Mix and 
moisten with the solution, cotton enough to fill the cavity. 

FOR A HECTIC CO UGH. 

Take the yolks of three eggs, with it three spoonfuls of honey 
and one of tar; beat well together, add one gill of wine. Take a 
teaspoonful three times a day before eating. — Mrs. James Cairns. 

FOR SORE L U.JVGS. 

Drop three drops of tar on a lump of sugar, and take three times 
a day before eating. — Mrs. Ann Kimball. 

AJV "EXPECTORANT." 

Take two tablespoon fuls of unground flaxseed, boil it in a pint 
of water down to a cupful, sweeten with honey or loaf sugar and 
add as much ipecac as would cover a three cent piece. Take a 
tablespoonful every half hour until the cold is loosened. — Aunt 
Ann. 



160 the household treasure. 

CURE FOR COLDS AND CROUP. 

Elecampane root steeped and boiled down with honey is an ex- 
cellent remedy for colds and croup. 

Horsford's Acid Phosphate is excellent for dyspepsia, indiges- 
tion, headache, etc. 

TO CLEANSE FOUL CASKS. 

Fill them with meal or bran, and water, and let them stand till 
fermentation takes place. It will entirely cleanse them without 
expense, as you can use the mixture for swine. 

TO CLEANSE BED TICKS. 

Apply poland starch by rubbing it on thick with a wet cloth. 
Place it in the sun. When dry rub it in with the hands. Repeat 
if necessary. 

CURE FOR SORE THROAT. 

Inhale through a tunnel the steam of hot vinegar in which sago 
leaves have been steeped. 

CROUP. 

Give an emetic as soon as possible, immerse the feet in warm 
water, put a poultice of yellow snuff mixed with goose oil upon the 
stomach. Sweet oil will answer. Apply a number of thicknesses 
of flannel wet in hot water, over the windpipe, as hot as it can be 
borne. Change as often as it cools. Place onion poultice upon 
the feet when taken out of the water. 



HINTS THAT HAVE BEEN GIVEN BY EXPERIENCED 
HOUSEKEEPERS. 



Rub rough flat-irons with fine salt and it will make them smooth, 
or tie yellow beeswax in a cloth, and when the iron is nearly hot 
enough to use, rub it quickly with the wax and then with a coarse 
cloth, and somebody else says, who has tried it and "knows that 
whereof she affirms," that sandpaper is superior to salt or beeswax. 
Take your choice. 



I Hi. HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 1 6 J 

A small piece of sponge is nice to grease pans or plates for 
1 taking with. 

When eggs are frozen put them in boiling water instead of cold, 
and the yolks will not be hard. 

Try the freshness of eggs by putting them in a pan of cold water. 
Those that sink the soonest are the freshest. Always drop hard 
boiled eggs in cold water so that the yolks will not turn black. 

Stir a hot custard with a twig from a peach tree that has a few 
leaves on it, and it will flavor it nicely. 

Save peach kernels from fresh peaches and dry them. Are nice 
to mix a lew of them with sweet almonds tor cake. 

Rub your griddle with fine salt before you grease it and your 
cakes will not stick. 

A lump of hard soap is good to stop rat holes up with. 

Oat straw is best for filling beds. 

Besides tea leaves and soap and water for dirt spots, common 
salt sprinkled cm before sweeping will make an old carpet look 
bright and fresh. 

A spoonful of vinegar put in the water in which meats or fowls 
are boiled makes them tender. 

Immerse fresh meat in buttermilk, wash it off good when used. 
You can keep it several days, not changing the milk unless very 
sour. Sour milk will answer the purpose. 

A little carbonate of soda put in the water in which meat or 
fowls are boiled will make them tender. 

Strew ground coffee on a shovel of coals and it will clear the 
house of offensive odors. 

If a sponge becomes dry and hard, soaking in milk will make it 
all right again. Buttermilk is still better. 

Aqua ammonia will drive away warts. 

To keep lemons, put them in cold water, changed every week; 
this will also add to the juice. 

To wash fruit stain from the hands rub with sorrel, rhubarb 
stocks, lemon juice, apple or tomato skins, or cream tartar water. 

Odors from boiling ham, cabbage. &c, may be prevented by 
throwing a few pieces of charcoal into the pot. 

Charcoal powder put into the water in which cut flowers are 
placed, will preserve them much longer. Placing them in wet sand 



1 62 THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 

will also preserve them a long time. 

Put a teaspoonful of kerosene to a pint of cold starch and youi 
iron will not stick. 

To destroy grass in gravel walks, scatter coarse salt along the 
edges and wherever the grass is springing. 

A tablespoonful of corn starch is a substitute for one egg. 

To kill flies, dissolve two drachms of quassia in half a pint of 
boiling water; sweeten and pour on plates. 

Gieen hickory bark will scatter ants. 

Never cook tomatoes, or anything acid, in iron. 

Do not let coffee or tea stand in tin. 

Charcoal ground to powder is good to give knives a polish. 

In choosing carpets select one that has small figures. 

To freshen stale bread or biscuit, steam until moist, then put in 
the oven to dry off. 

Do not cook hash too long, that is made of meat already cooked; 
just heat it. 



THE HOUSEHOLD TREASURE. 16" 



Clayton & Barrows, 

PHOTOGRAPHERS ! 



iS West Berry Street, 



FORT WAYNE, - INDIANA. 



AIIRIMI IIALTI FSIMIES 1 

Edited by W. W. KEEN, M. D., Fellow of the College of Physicians of 
Philadelphia; Surgeon to St. Mary's Hospital, etc. 



This series of American Health Primers is prepared to diffuse as widely and cheaply as 
possible, among all classes, a knowledge of the elementary facts of Preventive Medicine, and 
the bearings a. d applications of the latest and best researches in every branch of Medical and 
Hygienic Science. They are not intended (save incidentally i to assist in curing disease, but 
to teach people how to take care of themselves, their children, pupils employees, etc. 

They are written from an American standpoint, with especial reference to our Climate, Sani- 
tary Legislation, and Modes of life; and in these respects we differ materially from other na- 
tions. 

The subjects selected are of vital and practical importance in everyday ilfe, and are treated 
in as popular a style as is consistent with their nature. Each volume, if the subject calls for it, 
is fully illustrated, so that the text may be clearly and readily understood by any one hereto- 
fore entirely ignorant of the structure and functions of the b< dy. The object being to furnish 
the general or unscientific reader, in a compact form and at a low price, reliable guides for the 
prevention of disease and the preservation of both body and mind in a healthy state. 

The authors have been selected with great care, and on account of special fitness, each for 
his subject, by reason of its previous careful study, either privately or as public teachers. 

Dr. W. \V. Keen has undertaken the supervision of the Series as Editor; but it will be under- 
stood that he is not responsible for the statements or opinions of the individual authors. 



I. Hearing, and How to Keep It. With illustrations. By Chas. H. Burnett, M. D., 01 

Philadelphia, Consulting Aurist to the Pennsylvania Institution lor the Deaf and Dumb, 
Aurist to the Presbyterian Hospital, etc. 

II. Long Life, and How to Reach It. By J. G. Richardson, M. D., of Philadelphia, Pro- 
fessor ot Hygiene in the University of Pennsylvania, etc. 

III. The Summer and its Diseases. By James C. Wilson, M. 1)., of Philadelphia, Lecturer 
on Physical Diagnosis in Jefferson Medical College, etc. 

IV. Eyesight, and How to Care for it. With Illustrations. By George C. Harlan, M. D., of 
Philadelphia, Surgeon to the Wills (Eye) Hospital. 

V. The Throat and the Voice. With Illustrations. By J. Solis Cohen, M. D., of Phila- 
delphia, Lecturer on Diseases of the Throat in Jefferson Medical College. 

VI. The Winter and its Dangers. By Hamilton Osgood, M. D., of Boston, Editorial Staff 
Boston "Medical and Surgical Journal." 

VII. The Mouth and the Teeth. With Illustrations. By J.W.White, M. D., D. D. S., of 
Philadelphia, Editor of the ' 'Dental Cosmos." 

VIII. Brain Work and Overwork. By H. C. Wood, Jr., M. D., of Philadelphia, Clinical 
Professor of Nervous Diseases in the University of Pennsylvania, etc, LJ ust ready. 

IX. Our Homes. With Illustrations. By Henry Hartshore, M. D., of Philadelphia', form- 
erly Professor of Hygiene in the University of Pennsylvania. LJ ust ready. 

X. The Skin in Health and Disease. By L. D. Bulkley, M. D., of New York., Physician to 
the Skin Department of the Demilt Dispensary and of the N. Y. Hospital. [Nearly ready. 

XL Sea Air and Sea Bathing. By John H. Packard, M. D., of Philadelphia, Surgeon to the 
Episcopal Hospital. [Preparing. 

XII. School and Industrial Hygiene. By D. F. Lincoln, M. D., of Boston, Mass., Chair- 
man Department of Health, American Social Science Association. [Preparing. 

The volumes are sold separately or in sets. Price 50 cents each, neatly bound in cloth with 
a specially liberal discount to the Trade when ordered by the dozen volumes assorted, or in 
larger quantities. 

For Sale by 

siemon & BRO., 

FORT WAYNE, IND. 



-Dealers in- 



HATS, CAPS, 

-AND 

GENTS' FURNISHING GOODS, 

Manufacturers of SilkSCassimere Hats. 

HATS REPAIRED AND MADE TO ORDER. 
68 Calhoun Street, opp. Aveline House. 

Fort Wayne, Ind. 



THE LAST AND BEST RECEIPT. 

Every intelligent lady is aware, certainly, that in 
order to get a good result from a good formula, she 
needs most of all, pure ingredients. All Spices, Fla- 
voring Extracts, Herbs for seasoning etc., sold by me 
are strictly pure and fresh. Try them. My stock of 
Brushes, such as Hair, Tooth, Cloth, Infant, etc., is 
unsurpassed by any in the city. Prices cheaper than 
anywhere. T. F. THIEME, Druggist and Chemist, 
80 Calhoun Street, Fort Wayne, Ind. 



New York Store. Established i860. 



DEALERS IN 

DRY GOODS, CARPETS, 

AND 

HOUSE FUBHISHIHG GOODS, 

46 and 48 Calhoun Street, 
L. B. ROOT, 328 Broadway N. Y. -p^ ITT x 1 

!:S:?£r£? e '}"'>" w ">"= Fort Wayne, Ind. 

PRESCOTT BROS. & CO., 

Wholesale and Retail 

HARDWARE! 

Doors, Sash, Glass, Belting, Packing, 
Stoves, Tin-Plate, 

Sheet Iron, French and Stamped Ware, 

33 & 35 Columbia street, Fort Wayne, Ind. 

Jtlfri. May, Jfle^owan^ 




Wholesale and Retail Dealer in 



HUM A 



SWITCHES, CHRIS, FRIZZES, 
WIGS, FO RET OPS &c, 

In Every Variety and Color, constantly on hand. Also, 
Combings Made Up to Order. 

All Kinds of Hair "Work Made Up To Order. 

MILLINERY AND FANCY GOODS, 
33 East Main Street, FORT WAYNE, IND. 



From The Living Epistle, an evangelical month- 
ly, edited by Rev. H. J. Bowman, Cleveland, 
Ohio, September, 1879. 

MANUAL OF THE EXANTHEMATIC METHOD OF CURE. 

This is the name of a medical hook, of Dr. .1. Linden, of this city. The 
14th edition nf this work is before us, with over 300 pages of useful instructions 
respecting this method of cure. In addition to this, the author has pub- 
lished a, small book of testimonials thai an' not only astonishing, but really 
interesting, especially one connected with a letter from Jerusalem, which 
which gives a fine historical account of that sacred city, and the land to 
which it belongs. 

But we cannot speak of these hooks without making favorable mention 
of the method of cure which they teach and advocate. We believe we are 
only doing the public a favor by saying that we have found the use of this 
remedy, in our own experience, a grand success. Twelve years ago we 
first made a trial of it, and, on account of the benefits derived from it in cer- 
tain ailments, we have not felt safe without having it atour command almost 
constantly. 

For further information address Dr. J. Linden, 414 Prospect street, 
Cleveland, ()., who will send the little book above mentioned free of charge 
to any address. 

The above has been written without solicitation from any one interest- 
ed in the business. It is our own voluntary testimonial. 



THE GOLD MEDAL ROASTED COFFEE 



Has no superior for fine flavor and wholesomeness. It is put up 
in one pound handsome packages, and is sold by every first-class 
Grocer. Try a package. 

All orders from abroad will receive prompt attention from the 
manufacturers. 

JOHN B. MONNING & CO., 

73 & 75 Columbia Street, 

FORT WAYNE, IND. 



HOMMIS I TBKSSILT, 



GITT BEXZ*X*S, 

Advise the public in general to use their Choice 

Patent Process Plour! 

.Etna and Eagle Mills Flour. Graham Flour. 

Fine White and Yellow Gornmeal. 

By using the above brands of Flour, the Ladies will never ex- 
perience any trouble in preparing the finest cookery of the within 
described receipts. Orders left at the Mills, by telephone, or 
postal card, will receive prompt attention. 



Manufacturers of Fischbeck's Improved 

BED LOUNGE ! 

UPHOLSTERING A SPECIALTY. 

Nos. 33 & 35 Clinton Street., 



FOE YOUR 

Notions, Hosiery, Laces, Embroidery, 

Handkerchiefs, Jewelry, Rusching, Buttons, Kid Gloves, &c, 
go to 

CHASKA'S 

Popular Notion Store, 
72 Calhoun Street. Strictly One Price. 



Aug. F. Siemon. Rud. Siemon. 



UTTTIlfniT © "DTS) 



€% 



Wholesale and Retail Dealers in 



B ooks and S tationery; 

Blank Books, Cap, Letter' & Note Paper, 

T^aU 3*apw and Tlrindaw- Shaded, 

50 Calhoun St., opp Court House, 

FORT WAYNE, - - INDIANA. 



School Books of all kinds at Publishers' Prices. 



mumm abhiw g 




MEDICAL DISCOVERY, warranted to cure every kind of humor, 
from a common Pimple to the worst kind of Scrofula, Can- 
cers excepted. Price $1.50 

PRAIRIE WEED ; a Balsam and Tonic for the cure of Coughs, 
Colds, Inflammation of the Throat and Lungs, and all difficul- 
ties tending to Consumption. Price $1.00 

RHEUMATISM AND NEURALGIA DISSOLVENT will neu- 
tralize and dissolve the virus that causes Neuralgia. Sciatica, 
Lumbago and all Rheumatic Pains in any part of the sytem. 

Price $1.50 

RHEUMATIC LINIMENT. The best outward application for 
Pains, Bruises and Aches of all kinds. Price 50 cts 

SALT-RHEUM OINTMENT cures all Inflammatory Skin 
Diseases. Price 50 ctb 

SCORFULA OINTMENT. For cleansing and purifying Scrof- 
ulous Sores. Price $1.50 

HEALING OINTMENT. For cleansing and healing Ulcers and 
Old Sores. Price 50 cts 

SCATTERING LINIMENT, for dissolving and scattering 
Strumous Swellings. Price $1.00 

HAIR GROWER. For Scald Head and Loss of Hair, from 
Dandruff and Heat. Price $1.00 

HAIR TEA. A Vegetable Tonic and Preserver of the Hair. 



For Sale by all Druggists in the United States and Canada. 



No Medicines sent C. 0. D. f or to be Sold on Commission. 



Warren Street, Roxbury, Mass. 



EXECUTIVE MANSION, WASHINGTON, OCT. 15, 1877. 
Dear Sir: — The "Satisfaction Bouquet "was duly appreciated. Please accept 
the thanks of the President. Respectfully, WEBB C. HAVES 

TOTHOS. M. BIDDLE,FORT WAYNE, IND. 



170 WILLIAMS STREET, NEW LORE, ) 
Dear Mr. Biddle. AUGUST 8 1879. J 

Please send by American Express enclosed orders for "Satisfaction 
Bouquet" to Col. H.W. Lamberton, Winona Minn., and Eon H. B. Pluni- 
mer, Franklin, Penn., and send bill direct to our house. Col Lamberton 
has had it before, you will remember, and is much pleased with it, as all are 
who use it. Hoping to see you in about two weeks, I am 

Yours faithfully, EDWARD A. BUEHLER. 

PIQUA, OHIO, .JULY 1, 1879. 
MR. T. M. BIDDLE, FORT WAYNE, IND. 

I have used in my family your "Satisfaction Bouquet" perfume for near- 
ly 3 years, and find it the most lasting, yet the most delicate and delightful 
perfume we have ever tested. All pronounce it simply exquisite. The 
Satisfaction Bouquet is of such genuine merit that it best recommends itself. 

It is indispensable to every person's toilet. As an act of justice to you 1 
will say that this well-known perfume has made a reputation here that will 
prove not only flattering to you, but indeed valuable. Let everybody test 
its intrinsic worth. Very truly, MRS. E. L. ELLIOTT. 



OHAS. A. HOFFMAN. 



WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN 



GENUINE CIDER AND CIDED VINEGAR. 



I make it a specialty of keeping Cider Vinegar especially 
for Cooking, PickeJing and Medical purposes. Can be bad at reasonable 
prices at Chas. A. Hoffmann's, 18o and 187 Calhoun street. Fort Wayne. 
Ind 



A SELECT LIST OF POPULAR BOOKS, 



FOR SAI.K BY 



©maxoif i 



Importers, Booksellers and Stationers 




So Calhoun Street, 



FORT WAYNE, IND. 



All books in this list are generally kept in .took and sent post paid on 
receipt of pnce. Books no, in stoc k supplied at the shortest notice. 

Jimmy's Cruise in the Pinafore, by Louise M. Alcott. Being the fifth 
volume ot -Aunt Jo's Scrap Hag.'" ,6 mo., cloth § W 1C T 

Le " TJSV ?'' S- Hl H -- aUth ° r ° f " NelHe ' s Silver Mine." Pub 

mtn „r „, r > ,'f ress ,ni ; the benefit ° f ai] Cats - 1 ••- ™ 

ment of little children, with seventeen illustrations, by Addie Led 

yard. Small quarto. Cloth. Price 

How to Take ('arc of (, U1 - Eyes, with advice'to parents and 'teachersk 

Dress Reform, by Abba Goold Woolson. 16 mo. Price 
Wit and Wisdom of George Eliot, with an index of subjects""' New 
edition with excerpts from Daniel Deronda. Square 18 mo 

Bits ol Talk about Home Matters. Square iS mo 

Bits of Talk in Prose and Verse, for young folks, by H. H 
Jean Ingelow's Poems. Home edition. Square iS mo 

Where is the Citv ? The eynen'pn,- n n f „ ■" 

-r r-u ', ' .. ex P e "ence ol a young man in search of the 

True Church, with sketches of tu ' i> »■ , ,-■ >CcULn '» me 
Methodists R„; „ i- V? , Baptists, Congregationalists, 

Methodists Episcopalians, Quakers, Swfedenborgians Spiritualists 
Un.versabsts and Unitarians, by E. T. H. Putnam ,6 ^ mtUallSts ' 
Quiet Hours. A Collection of Poems. Square. iS mo 
Madame Reeamien Memoirs and Correspondence. Translated from 
the French of Mme. Lenormant, by I. M. Luyster l6 mo 

r^^:r^ F :^; h ! Mme ; Lenormant > ^^ 

Selections from the Apocrypha. iS mo. 

" '•' Epictetus iS mo 

" Imitation of Christ 18 mo 

Thoughts of Marcus Aurelius Antoninus. 

Sursuni Corda 



$1 oo 

#1-25 

5octs 
#1.50 



mo $1.25 

$1.00 

18 mo $1.00 

h 00 



$2 00 



1 2 5 
1 00 

1 5o 



50 cts 

50 cts 

50 cts 

18 mo 50 cts 



s^sSs^sr^ t£fe T^ d * ."- 



$1 25 



A Manual of Etiquette. With hints on Politeness, Good Breeding, etc, 

by Daisy Eyebright. 12 mo. Boards 50 cts 

The Mother's Register. Current notes on the Health of Children. Part 
I, Boys; Part II, Girls. The Mother's Records for the Physician to 
Interpret. From the French of Prof. J. B. Fossagrive, M. D. 
12 mo, cloth 75 cts 

Hints on Dress, by an American Woman. Outline History of Dress; 
Economy and Taste; Things Indispensable; What we Mean by 
Dressing Well; Estimates of Cost; Color, Form, Suitability; How 
and What to Buy, 16 mo, 124 pp, cloth 75 cts 

Manual of Nursing. Prepared under the instructions of the New York 
Training School for Nurses, by Victoria White, M. D., and 
revised by Mary Putnam Jacobi, M. D., . 75 cts 

The Home, Where it Should Be, and What to Put in it. Containing 
Hints for the Selection of a Home, its Furniture and internal 
arrangements with carefully prepared price lists of everything needed 
by a housekeeper and numerous valuable suggestions for saving 
money and gaining comfort, by Frank R. Stockton; 12 mo, 182 pp, 
cloth . 75 cts 

The Mother's Work with Sick Children, by Prof. J. B. Fossagrive, M. 
D. Translated and edited by F. P. Foster, M. D. A volume full 
of the most practical advice and suggestions for Mothers and Nurses, 
12 mo, 224 pp, cloth $1 00 

Infant Diet, by A. Jacobi, M. D.. Clinical Professor of Diseases of 
Children, College of Physicians and Surgeons, New York. Re- 
vised, enlarged and adapted to popular use by Mary Putnam Jacobi, 
M. D., 12 mo, boards 50 cts 

Sketching from Nature, by Thomas Rowbotham. Reprinted from the 

thirty-eighth English Edition. 27 illustrations, 16 mo, boards 50 ct s 

Landscape Painting in Oil Colors, by W. Williams. Reprinted from the 

thirty-fourth English Edition, 16 mo, boards 50 cts 

Flower Painting, by Mrs. Wm. Duffield. Reprinted from the twelfth 

English Edition, 17 illustrations, 16 mo, boards 50 cts 

Figure Drawing, by C. H. Weigall. Reprinted from the twenty-first 

English Edition, 17 illustrations, 16 mo, boards 50 cts 

The Window Flower Garden, by Julius J. Heinrich. Profusely and 

handsomely Illustrated, 12 mo, cloth 75 cts 

Ferns in Their Homes and Ours. A practical work adapted to the wants 

of all interested in Fern culture. New and revised edition $1 50 

Practical Floriculture. A guide to the successful Propagation and Cultiva- 
tion of Florists Plants, by Peter Henderson, author of Gardening for 
Profit and Gardening for Pleasure. Illustrated $1 50 

Winter Greeneries at Home, by Rev. E. A. Johnson, D. D., author of 

Half Hour Studies of Life, etc., etc. Finely illustrated, 12 mo $1 00 

House Plans for Everybody, by S. B. Reed, Architect. It gives an esti- 
mate of the quantity of every article used in the construction. Pro- 
fusely illustrated, 12 mo ._ $1 50 

New Book of Flowers, by Joseph Breck, Practical Horticulturist; beau- 
tifully illustrated . $'75 

Flowers for the Parlor and Garden, by Edward Sprague Rand, Jr. A 
splendid illustrated volume on the Culture of Greenhouse, Conserva- 
tory, Store, Parlor, and Garden Flowers, Ferns, Bulbs, etc. New 
and enlarged edition. Cloth extra $2 50 



Gardening for Profit, in the Market and Family Garden, by Peter Hen- 
derson; finely illustrated |i r 

Gardening for Pleasure. Aguidetothe Amateur in the Fruit. Vege- 
table and Flower Garden, with full directions for the Greenhouse, 
Conservatory and Window Garden, by Peter Henderson; illustrated 150 

Grape Culturist, by Andrew S. Fuller. The standard work on the culti- 
vation of the Hardy Grape 1 c Q 

Practical Hints on the Selection and use of the Microscope, by John Phin, 

fully illustrated, 12 mo 7S cts 

Practical Landscape Gardening, by G. M. Kern, 12 mo $1 50 

Atwood's Country and Surburban Houses, by D. T. Atwood, 1 50 

'• Modern American Homestead, by D. T. Atwood, 8 vo... 2 50 

Allen's Rural Architecture, by Hon. L. F. Allen, 12 mo, cloth 1 50 

How to Build Hot-houses, Greenhouses, Graperies, etc., by Robert B. 

Leuchars, Garden Architect; illustrated, 12T110 . 1 c Q 

Every Woman her own Flower Gardener. A handy Manual of Flower 
Gardening for Ladies, by Mrs. S. O. Johnson, 12 mo, paper cover, 
50 cts; cloth, $1 00 

Canary Birds. A manual of useful and practical information for bird 
keepers, 18 mo. paper, 50 cents; cloth 75 cents. 

Browne's American Bird fancier. Considered with reference to the 
Breeding, Rearing, Feeding, Management and Peculiarities of Cage 
and House Birds, with remarks on their diseases and remedies, by 
D.J.Browne; illustrated, 12 mo. paper cover 30 cts 

Holden's Book of Birds. A new book written to meet the demand of 
the multitude of Bird lovers for a complete handbook on the care of 
our beautiful pets, the birds; illustrated with over thirty engravings, 
16 mo 5 o cts 

PHILIP G. HAMERTON WORKS. 

A Painter's Camp. Book I., In England; Book II, In Scotland; 

Book III, In France. 12 mo $2 00 

Thoughts About Art. A new edition. 121110 $200 

The Intellectual Life. 12 mo $200 

Chapters on Animals, with twenty Etchings, by Veyrassat and Bodmer. 

12 mo #200 

Round My House. 12 mo $200 

The Sylvan Year and the Unknown River. The two in one volume. 

12 mo $2 OQ 

Wenderh<.'me. A Tale of Yorkshire and Lancashire. 121110 $200 

Modern Frenchmen. Five Biographies. 12 mo | 200 

The Life of J. M. W. Turner, R. A., with nine illustrations, after the 

Master's Sketches, and four wood cuts. 12 mo $200 

Etching and Etchers, illustrated with numerous Etchings. 8 vo $z 00 



Own, 





,J 5J 



15 & 17 Court St. and 59 & 60 Clinton St., 



FORT WAYNE, INDIANA, 



Have made a new departure in the 



READY MADE 



r 



*V\W 




J T.TWP 



They occupy Four Stores. — One devoted exclusively to 
Boys and Children, where the finest line of 



GMUue fa tht Utile I ©III 



Is exhibited, one department for overcoats; one Men's 
Suitings, and one for Furnishing Goods. The Cloth- 
ing of this celebrated house is of their own 
manufacture, at Utica, New York, and sold 
strictly at one price and satisfaction 
guaranteed. When going to Fort 
Wayne don't fail to give them a call. Remember they 



Sell a Single Suit at Wholesale Rates. 



