^^*0>. 




o 
o 



^ ** s 




J.53 



Author 



Title 



Imprint 





TH E PRACTICAL 



Household Assistant. 



A COM PLETE 



GUIDE FOR THE HOUSEKEEPER. 



^^Sp^r-g;^-?^ 



'• :■ 1880. W 

BY LPF W\SH\^ 



MRS. R. S. LIVERMORE, 



(Nee R. S. BAIL.EV. ) 



Silver Creek. N. Y. : 
THE LOCAL PRINTING HOUSE. 

1880. 





THE PRACTICAL 

Household Assistant 



A COMPLETE 



GUIDE FORTHE HOUSEKEEPER. 



JB-^. 



MRS. R. S. LIVERMORE. 



(Nes R. S. BAILEY.) 




yiLVKi! C'RKEIC. N. Y.: 
TflE LOCAL PKIXTING IIOrSK 



^ 






Entered according to An Act of Congress, in the year 1880, by 

riPEARS & BROWN, 
In the Office of the Lil)rarian of Congress, at Washington, D. C 



CONDENSED INDEX. 



CHAPTER I. 



Washing. — Fluids, Bleaching, Removing Stains, Washing 

Flannels, Laces, Velvets, Silks. Fancy Goods, Etc 3- 7 

Ironing. — The Board, Polishes, to Iron Shirts, Prints, Fancy 

Goods, Etc 7- 9 

CHAPTER II. 

House Cleaning. — Sweeping, Dusting, Care of Carpets and 
Oil Cloths, Whitewashing, Painting, Polishing, Paper- 
ing, Bed Bugs 1 10-15 

CHAPTER III. 

Breakfast.— Cooking Meats, Hash, Fried Apples, Toasts, 

Buckwheat Cakes, Potatoes 16-20 

Dinner. — Soups, Roasts, Pot-pies, Cooking Potatoes, Cabbage, 
Onions and other Vegetable. Puddings, Pies, Tarts. 
Relishes for Dinner 20-32 

CHAPTER IV. 

Bread and Cakes. — Bread from Home-made Yeast, from 
Yeast Cakes, Lightning Rising and Railroad Emptings, 
Indian Bread, Corn Bread, Graham Gems 32-35 

Cake.— General Instructions, Cakes of Baking Powder, 5 kinds; 

Cream Tartar and Soda, 7 kinds ; Saleratiis Cakes, 8 kinds. 35-39 

CHAPTER V. 

Rag Carpets. — How to make them, Coloring the Rags 40-42 

CHAPTER VI. 

Toilet.— To Whiten the Teeth, Wave the Hair, make Puffs, 

Soften the Hands, Chajiped Hands, to prevent Dandruff. 43-44 

CHAPTER VII. 

Medicinal. — Composition, Alcoholic Vapor Bath, To Cure 
Burns, Earache, Sick Headache, Hiccough, Crouj); a 
Cough Syrup; Family Ointment; Liquid Measui-e; The 
Healthy Pulse 45-47 

CHAPTER VIII. 

Miscellaneous.— To Glean Kid Gloves, Hair Brushes, Porce- 
lain Kettles, Pork Barrels; Paper for Warmth; Rats and 
Mice ; Moths ; To keep Butter ; Old Jars ; Casks ; Picture 
Nails; Bottles, Cements, Rust, Polishes, Cracks in Stoves 48-51 

ADVERTISEMENTS. 

The Combination System. Books — Painless Childbirth, Fat 
and Lean. Petroleum Remedies. The Silver Creek Coun- 
terfeit Detective. 



PREFACE. 



The author believes that there is an opening for a 
practical book of instructions for doing all kinds of 
housework, the price of which shall bring it within 
the reach of every one. Whether that opening shall 
be in the public heart or the tomb of oblivion will 
shortly be determined. The rules and recipes which 
follow have all been thoroughly tested, and found to 
be good, and they are arranged in such order as will 
make them easy to find. 

While the book is small it is comprehensive. It 
contains rules and instructions for all branches of 
housework. If it shall lighten the burden of the 
weary ones whose work is never done, without too 
seriously lightening the pocket of the undersigned, 
it will fully meet the expectations of 

R. S. L. 



CHAPTER I 



WASHING. 



EXCELLENT WASHING FLUID. 

One pound sal soda, one-half pound unslaked lime, 
and one gallon water. Boil both till dissolved and let 
settle; drain off in a jug, oork and use one cup full for 
soaking the clothes and enough in boiling to make 
a brisk suds. Used twelve years with perfect success. 
Removes all stains easil}^ Cost five cents. One-half 
pound borax of is a decided improvement. 

ANOTHEll. 

One pound potash, one ounce ammonia, one ounce 
salts tartar, one gallon boiling water. Dissolve potash 
in the water; when cool add the other ingredients 
and cork tightly. Soak the clothes over night in 
suds, soap them well, put them in the boiler of cold 
water and one cup of the fluid; boil twenty minutes, 
take out, suds and rinse. The suds are good for 
plants and all cleansing purposes. Cost thirty-five 
cents. 

A tablespoonful of turpentine boiled with your white 
clothes will add to the whitning process. 



MES. LI VERMORE ' S 



TO BLEACH MUSLIN OR SMALL PIECES. 

Put them in a bowl of strong soap suds and put in 
a window wdiere the sun will shine on them, through 
glass, turn often. 

QUICK WAY TO BLEACH. 

Twelve ounces of chloride of lime for five pounds. 
Boil the cloth and rinse; put the lime in a dish and 
pour boiling w^ater on it; lot it settle, then strain into 
a tub with sufficient water to cover the cloth and let 
it bleach twenty minutes, rinse thoroughly and dry. 

LIQUID BLUIXG. 

Prussian or Chinese blue, pulverized, one ounce, 
one-half ounce oxalic acid, one quart soft water. Bot- 
tle for use. 

TO REMOVE IRON IIUST. 

Make a weak solution of oxalic acid, let the spots 
remain in it a short time, when the stain is gone, 
rinse thoroughly or it will destroy the goods; if too 
strong will eat the hands. A sure thing for any stain 
but do not make strong. 

TO REMOVE MILDEW. 

Make a paste of powdered chalk and soft soap; ap- 
ply and bleach. Cold rain water and soda will re- 
move machine grease from washable fabrics if used 
before putting in the wash. 

FRUIT STAINS. 

Let the stain imbibe a little water, without drip- 
ping and hold it over lighted matches until the stain 
disappears. 

ANOTHER. 

Strain the stained part over a pail, then continue 
pouring boiling water through,' till the stains disap- 
pear; do this before washing. 

FOR TAR AND PITCH SPOTS. 

Put butter or sweet oil on and let it lie for a time 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD ASSISTANT. 5 

then wash in suds; or, break an egg and take the yolk 
alone and rub the soiled parts in it until it softens and 
comes out then wash in water. 

In removing grease spots with benzine do not apply 
with a sponge or piece of rag; the stained parts of the 
garment should be laid fiat between two sheets of blot- 
ting paper, the upper sheet well soaked with benzine; 
this will dissolve and absorb the fatty matter. 
FOR PAINT. 

Apply spirits of turpentine; leave on woolen goods 
a time, and it will crack and come off. 

^VASHING FLANNELS. 

The great secret in washing flannels lies in keeping 
them in water of the same temperature from the time 
they are wet until hung up to dr3^ Flannels tliat are 
very much soiled are best washed in hot soap-suds, 
care being taken to rinse in water of the same tem- 
perature. Fine flannels, but slightly soiled keep 
whiter and remain soft if washed and rinsed in tepid 
water. Avoid rubbing flannels on a board or wring- 
ing too tightly. Never rub soap on flannels but ^dis- 
solve it in the water. Use always rain or soft water, 
and be expeditious about both the washing and dry- 
ing. To set the color of colored flannels or colored 
trimmings, soak for ten minutes in a pail of contain- 
ing a teaspoonful of sugar of lead, then wash in tepid 
water. When the water is not soft make it so with 
the addition of borax. Shake the garments well and 
hang where they will dry quickh'-. Iron on the wrong 
side while still damp with a moderately heated iron. 
Flannels washed by the above directions will shrink 
but little if any. It is a good plan always to pull and 
stretch in shape the garments previous to drying and 
during the process of drying. 



MRS. LIVERMORE'S 



TO WASH LACE. 

Cover a, bottle, or quart glass can with linen, 
smoothly, and sew firmly; wrap the lace around and 
fasten with needle and thread nicely on, keeping the 
pearl edge out smoothly. Wet in cold water ; put in 
cold suds, let it come to a boil gradually, rinse in clear 
water ; if you wish it to look like old lace take weak 
coffee sweetened, enough to stiffen the lace ; dip it in 
it and let dry on the bottle. Press between the white 
leaves of a book, or fill a bottle with hot water and 
iron it with the bottle on flannel, on the wrong side. 

TO CLEAIS'^ BLACK LACE. 

Use alcohol. Throw them boldly into the alcohol 
and churn them up and down till tkey foam; if very 
dusty u.se a second wash of alcohol. Squeeze them, 
part them and smooth them out ; put between paper 
and press under weight till dry; do not iron. 

TO CLEAN CRAPE. 

Wind it on a round stick smoothly ; hold it over 
the spout of a tea kettle till thoroughly steamed. If the 
stifftiess is gone from it, dissolve a bit of glue in skim 
milk and water and dip. Shake it partially dry and 
fold in the original creases and lay under a book to 
dry. 

TO RESTORE THE PILE OF VELVET. 

If slightly pressed hold over steam ; if necessary 
heat a flat iron, dampen the wrong side of the velvet, 
place the iron between two sticks face upward, pass 
the wrong side back and forth over it until the pile 
is restored and the velvet dry. Do not leave finger 
marks on it. 

EAXCY STOCKINGS. 

Should have black pepper sprinkled in the water pre- 
vious to washing to prevent fading ; dry quickly. 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD ASSISTANT. 7 

For prints of doubtful colors ; let them soak in salt 
Vv^ater a short time before washing. 

GLEANING SILK. 

Brush the silk well to free it from all dust ; then 
sponge it on the wrong side with alcohol and warm 
water; then press with an iron that is just warm enougli 
to dry the silk slowly. You will be well pleased with 
the effect. 

Black cashmere should be waslied in suds and rinsed 
in a dark blue water and ironed while damp on tlje 
wrong side will look as good as new. 

BLACK MATERIALS. 

Brush well all the dust out of the article, then take a 
piece of black flannel, or an old black woolen stocking, 
(it must always be black); dip it in cold coffee, and 
sponge well the material all over alike; then fold up each 
piece of breadth nice and even, and let it remain dam]) 
for three or four hours before ironing. 

Do not press ribbons with an iron but sponge 
smoothly and let dry on a clean surface. 



IRONING. 



IRONING BOARD. 

Get a board a foot and a half wide and four and a 
half feet long, sharpen one end to a point ; procure 
four door protectors, such as are fastened to the base, 
with rubber inserted in the end, to prevent the door 
being bruised ; screw two of them into the board, one 
in each square corner and the other two about two 
feet from the corners, leaving the point projecting to 
slip skirts or shirts under. 

Secure a staple under the table on one side, and on 



MRS. LIVEILMOBE'S 



the square end of the hoard fasten a liook — a heavy 
bent wire will do — long enouoh to hook into the 
staple ; this will keep the board from tipping when 
ironing on the point. 

Use the door protectors as legs to rest on tlie table; 
the rubber prevents injury to the tal)le and makes it 
some higher, consequently easier to iron. 

CHINESE STARCH POLISH. 

Six ounces parafine, one ounce citronella. Melt 
with gentle heat together and pour on plates to cool; 
cut in blocks one inch square and use one for a quart 
of boiled starch. 

EXAMEL FOR SHIRT BOSOMS. 

Melt one ounce white wax with two ounce sperma- 
ceti; to one quart of boiled starch add a piece the size 
of a cherr3^ 

POLISH OF ARABIC. 

Take two ounces white arabic powder ; pour one 
pint of boiling water over it, let it stand over night; 
in the morning pour it carefully from the dregs into 
a bottle and cork for use. Put a tablespoonful into a 
pint of boiled starch, it will give black lawns or prints 
a look of newness which nothing else will when 
washed. It is good, when diluted, for white muslins 
and bobinet. Shirt fronts should be starched in hot 
starch when washing and dry ; then when ready to 
iron dip in cold starch and rinse in hot water; after 
a few minutes iron them ; put a thin cloth over at 
iirst, then polish with a polishing iron. 

Starch calicos with starch made of flour if preferred, 
let dry thoroughly, then sprinkle and roll tightly for a 
dress; begin by ironing waist and sleeves first; k'eep- 
ing the skirt rolled meantime. Prints look more like 
new if ironed on the wrong side and keep clean longer 



PEAOTICAL HOUSEHOLD ASSISTANT. !' 

if ironed on the right side. 

Rub beeswax on the leaves of a pamphlet and heat 
through with a flat iron. Keep it with the board and 
rub the iron over it and wipe with a soft cloth. Or 
tie a lump of wax in a rag and keep it for the pur- 
pose and sprinkle salt on brown paper and scour the 
waxed iron on it. If linen or cotton become scorched 
while ironing, wet it in a hot soap suds and place in 
the sun to dry, then wet again till bleached. Old 
boot-tops, cut into pieces the right size and lined, 
make good ironing holders. The leather keeps all heat 
awav from the hand. 



CHAPTER 11. 



HOUSE CLEANING. 



SWEEPING. 

It takes time to sweep properly. The stroke must 
1)8 firm and short, creating as little wind as possible. 
Grandmo'ther's rule was once on the board and twice 
on the crack; and always lengthways of the floor. 
This of course depends on the width of the floor 
boards. A rag carpet should be swept across the 
breadtli or the way of the rags. 

When the room is cold and one can get snow, cover 
the carpet thickly with it and scrub it around with a 
broom; then sweep quicklj^; the snow will take up all 
the dirt and leave the carpet as fresh and clean as 
new. It will not soil any carpet and prevents the dust 
from rising. Excellent for bed rooms. Be sure the 
snow does not melt. The light snow is best, the ex- 
ercise is good, and the satisfaction complete. 

ANOTHER. 

Mix Indian meal with water; not enough to make it 
wet, but ratlier dry; sprinkle the carpet with it, scrub 



PliACTlCAL HOUSEHOLD ASSISTANT. 11 

it about and sweep it thoroughly; it will lay the dust 
and clean the carpet nicely. Will not stain. 

DUSTING. 
Use a soft cloth instead of a brush or wing; the cloth 
will catch all the dust, and you can shake it from the 
window, while the others set it floating again. 

TO PREVENT MOTHS WORKING IX A CARPET. 

Wash the cracks in the floor in spirits of turpentine, 
benzine, or strong alum water ; about one-half yard 
around the edge of the room before laying the carpet 
and afterwards sprinkle the carpet often with salt in 
sweeping; sufficient adheres to the carpet to prevent 
their working in it. 

Use bright clean straw, or papers alone, but better 
still sweet flag well dried, it will keep off moths and 
impart a pleasant odor through the room. 

TO KILL MOTHS IN CARPET. 

Take a coarse towel, wring it out in clear water, 
spread out smoothly on the carpet, iron it dry with a 
hot iron ; it is not necessary to iron hard ; it is the 
steam that does the work and will not injure the car- 
pet. 

Stair carpets should always have three or four thick- 
nesses of paper put under them, at or over the edge of 
every stair, which is the part where they first wear 
out. Procure an extra yard when buying, and change 
often so the wear will not come on the edge of the step. 

Wash the spots with ammonia water, one spoonful 
to one gallon water. Grease can be taken out by the 
use of Danforth's burning fluid. Pour some in a dish 
and wash the spot quickly same as water. It evapo- 
rates very soon after, and will not soil the most deli- 
cate carpet. The fluid can be procured at hardware 
stores. 



12 MBS. LIVURMORE'S 

Ink freshly spilled on carpets should be taken up with 
a damp sponge, after washing the sponge clean, scrub the 
spot on the carpet in warm water ; wet the spot with a 
solution of oxalic acid, and, after a few minutes wash off 
with cold water, and linally sponge with weak ammonia 
water to neutralize any of the acid that may remain in 
the carpet. 

Dip brooms once a Aveek in suds and they will be as 
good as new until nearly worn out. 

TO CLEAN OIL CLOTHS. 

Wash in milk and water and wipe dry, or wash well 
with ammonia water, and rub Aty, then with a flannel 
cloth dipped in kerosene oil go over it again; do this 
occasionally and it will look ever bright and new. 
Varnish twice a year. 

STRAW MATTING. 

Should be washed in salt and water. This can 
easily be done when off the floor by laying it on a 
table. Wipe dr}^ 

Or sprinkle on dry Indian meal and sweep thor- 
oughly. 

I have found the following a good way to clean a 
carpet which has had hard usage. First sweep it 
clean, then put three tablespoonfals of ammonia in a 
bucket o^ hot water. With a stiff brush and plenty 
of borax soap scrub a yard or two of carpet at a time, 
rinsing it off with a second bucket of w^ater and am- 
monia and wiping as dry as possible with a woollen 
cloth. Proceed in this wa}^ over the entire carpet and 
when done open the windows to dry it quickl}^ 

KALSOMINING. 

To kalsomine a room 15x20 with tvv'o coats use ten 
pounds whiting, one-fourth pound glue, two ounces 
ultra marine, one ounce Venetian red. Dissolve 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD ASSISTANT. 13 

whiting in boiling water, the glue in warm water, ( it 
should be set over night,) and stir both frequently: 
add Avater after stirring, if too thick, and strain 
through a wire sieve in a good sized tin or iron pail, 
so it can be put on the stove and heated if required. 
Stir in first blue, then red, ( alternating, after each is 
dissolved and strained ) till the desired tint is 
obtained, dry on a paper to determine, it will be lav- 
ender if both are used. After the color is determined 
pour in the glue. Apply hot to the walls, or the glue 
will cause the brush to stick. It will not rub ofi: 
Cost sixty-five cents. 

COLD KALSOMINE. 

Four pounds Paris white, cover it with water the 
night before using. Dissolve a handful of glue by 
putting in a little water over night. In the morning 
add enough water to make a quart. Stir each till 
thoroughly dissolved, then add enough Avater to make 
a pail three-fourths full. Add bluing or any color you 
wish, go over each place till thoroughly wet; if your 
brush dries quickly add warm water. This costs 
thirty-eight cents. 

If troubled about peeling off get ten cents worth of 
powdered alum, dissolved in two quarts of water and 
go over the wall first as it removes the superfluous 
lime. Take plaster Paris, a little at a time and wet it 
and fill all the cracks and nail holes smoothly with 
the hand before commencing. 

PAINTING. 

It is best done in cool weather, as the oil hardens 
on the outside, instead of penetrating the wood, and 
make a more solid coa,ting. Newly painted rooms can 
have the smell taken out if hay is scattered around or 
put in a pail of water and left to stand, sprinkle dry 



14 MRS. LIVERMORJE'S 

hay with chloride of lime. Use whiting and clean 
warm water to clean paint, no soap is needed, rinse 
and wipe dr}^ ; never use soap on varnished doors. 
Before painting cover the windows with whiting- 
paste, no paint will adhere to them. Paint spots on 
windows can be easily removed by a strong solution 
of soda. 

Burnt umber and oil or vinegar rubbed well on 
pine with a rag will have the appearance of black 
walnut. 

An oaken color can be given to pine by washing in 
a solution of copperas dissolved in strong lye; when 
dry oil thoroughly; it will last a year or two then re- 
new with oil. 

Never paint the inside of sinks, but oil them and 
let dry before using. 

FILLING AND POLISHING. 

One quart alcohol, five ounces gum shellac, one 
ounce gum kino, one-half ounce gum benzoin ; let 
them stand ten hours before using. Apply with cot- 
ton wadding, covered with muslin. When bottled, 
add one ounce linseed oil, raw, to one quart polish. 

Mahogany: add one ounce alkenet root, let stand 
ten hours, then strain. 

Rosewood: use dragon's blood. 

Ebony: lamp black. 

Walnut: burnt umber. 

White wood: bleached shellac, no coloring. 

Always when polishing use a few drops of linseed 
oil on the muslin. 

PAPERING. 

Never paper over old paper ; it can be got off by 
dampening with saleratus water and scraping thor- 
oughly. 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD ASSISTANT. 15 

Fill all the cracks with plaster Paris, mixed with 
water a little time as it sets so quickly you cannot 
use it after a few moments. 

Begin at a space and go from right to left matching 
as you go over and under windows; use a hand brush 
and press out all the air from^under. 

PASTE FOR PAPERmG. 

For one gallon water use one ounce alum; dissolve, 
let it come to a boil, make a paste of flour and water, 
same as for starch, and thicken the water not too stiff ; 
let cool and add cold water when using if too stiff; 
none better, unless the paper is very delicate, then use 
cornstarch instead. 

To remove grease from wall paper, lay several folds 
of blotting paper on the spot and bold a hot iron near it 
until the grease is absorbed. 

The backs of upholstered chairs and the heads of 
lounges, which have become soiled by contact with 
greasy heads, may be cleaned by rubbing well with gas- 
oline or benzine. If gilt frames are varnished with white 
varnish when new, they can be easily cleaned with a 
damp cloth. 

While bedsteads are down have the slats and springs 
and insides of the rails washed with a solution of car- 
bolic acid. Have the mattress turned and well aired 
every morning. 

TO ANNIHILATE BED-BUGS. 

Varnish thfe bedstead thoroughly, particularly whei'e 
there is any signs of bugs. 

To clean zinc, rub on fresh lard with a cloth, and 
wipe dry. 



CHAPTER ill. 



BREAKFAST, 



Always get your material for breakfast ready over 
night ; fix the fire already to light, fill the tea-kettle, 
grind the coffee and prepare the potatoes, and thus 
you can sleep half an hour longer in the morning. 

COFFEE. 

Put a quart of boiling water into your coffee pot ; 
wet up a cupful of ground coffee with the white of an 
Ggg, adding the eggshell and a little cold water ; put 
this into the boiling hot water and boil fast ten min- 
utes ; then add a half cup of cold water and set it be- 
fore the hearth or table to settle for five minutes; pour 
it off carefully into your mefal or cliiiia coffee pot or 
urn. 

BEEF STEAK. 

Probably there are more opinions about beef steak 
than any otlier one article of cookery. All agree, I 
believe, on one point, that is it should be tender, in 
order to have this it must be tender beef to begin 
Avitli. It should be cooked quickly ; ten or twelve 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD ASSItiTANT. 17 

minutes is sufficient time to cook it thoroughly done. 
A gridiron is best over a bed of bright coals, if not, 
heat the frying pan, beat the beef well, not cut with 
anything sharp ; lay in carefully after it is buttered, 
as soon as heated on the under side turn it over, and 
change often to keep the juice from steaming out, 
have a hot plate ready, pour off the juice that escapes 
on it and keep adding a little butter to prevent it 
scorching; season with salt and pepper on each side 
when done, serve with butter, place in an oven to keep 
hot ; then put in the frjang pan a spoonful of coffee 
and pour beside it instead of water. I prefer to put 
in a heaping spoonful of butter as soon as the steak 
is taken out and stir in a level spoonful of dry flour 
with it, let it brown, pour in hot water for gravy ; 
then pour over the meat. 

For those who like the onion flavor, slice in one or 
two onions before you put in the steak and let them 
fry brown, then finish cooking altogether. 

Beefsteak can be kept a long time cooked same as 
for the table, packed in a jar and covered with melted 
beef suet to exclude the air. 

HAM AND EtiGS. 

Cut the ham into slices, making them of equal 
thickness; cut off the rind, and soak the slices in luke- 
warm water for ten minutes. Dr}^ them, and place 
them on a clean frying pan. Fry till a delicate brown 
on both sides, and lift to a hot dish with a fork, leav- 
ing the fat in the pan ; break the eggs into the fat; 
fry gently, basteing with the fat; take up carefully, 
and place whole on the slices of ham ; sprinkle with 
a little black pepper, and serve. 

FRIZZLED BEEF. 

Shave off very thin slices of dried beef. Put into a 



18 MBS. LIVERMORE'S 

stewpan a teacup of cold water, then the slices of 
beef After it simmers a few minutes, add a spoon- 
ful of butter ; when this is melted, take out the 
meat, putting it where it will keep hot. Beat well the 
yolk of one egg, add slowly two tablespoons of cream 
or milk, in which a teaspoon of flour has been stirred, 
and pour it into the boiling liquor, stirring to prevent 
its curdling. Salt and pepper to taste ; when it has 
simmered a few minutes, pour in half a teacup of 
cream or milk and pour it over the meat. 

HASH. 

Take lean meat from corned beef, cut out all the 
gristle and poor pieces, chop it rather fine ; take two- 
thirds as many boiled potatoes as meat, chop with it 
till quite fine, not too much; put two spoonsful of 
butter in the frying pan with a little water ; let the 
hash heat gradually till thoroughly steamed through, 
salt if necessary, pepper and just before taking up put 
in two tablespoonsful of sweet cream and stir quickh''. 
Just try it and that abused dish will be restored to 
favor. 

As an appetizer for it serve onions sliced in vinegar 
with salt and pepper 

FKIED APPLES. 

To be eaten with pork for breakfast. Fare and cut 
in fine quarters, sour apples. Put a spoonful of butter 
in a sauce pan, with a very little water, (or use pork 
fat if preferred ) dredge with flour, cover and let fry. 
Stir often; take up and serve hot. 

CREAM TOAST. 

Toast the bread or biscuit to a light brown; put the 
milk and as much cream as you can afford into the 
dish, let it come to a boil, then stir in a paste of flour 
and water and salt (do not salt at first as it will curdle 



I 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD ASSISTANT. l'> 

the milk ) let it just boil again afiid pour over the 
bread, if crusts, dip hastily in hot water before 
turning on the milk. 

FRENGII TOAST. 

Beat four eggs very light, and stir with them one 
pint of milk; slice some nice white bread, dip the 
pieces into the egg and milk, then lay tliem into a 
pan of hot butter and fry brown. 

A good cup of coffee and any of these dishes served 
with potatoes will make a nice breakfast. Corn 
bread or rolls substituted for griddle cakes, or codfish 
for meats. Always leave potatoes whole with fish, or 
beef steak ; mashed with fowls, roast or spare rib. 
Baked or fried for supper. 

BUCKWHEAT CAKES. 

Make a thick batter of warm water and buckwheat, 
( and sour milk, if you have it.) the day before using ; 
keep warm over night ; it will be light and nice in 
the morning, pour out in a dish what is needed for 
breakfast, salt and put in a little saleratus with warm 
water to thin it sufficient!}'' to fry ; a small spoonful 
of molasses will make them temptingly brown ; a 
handful of meal also improves them ; the milk if 
used will brown them sufficiently. Fill with water 
again and stir in buckwheat quite thick and repeat 
the process, and they will rise every day from it; the 
saleratus, if put in the pitcher, kills the life of the 
batter. 

TO CREAM POTATOES. 

Heat one tablesj^oonful of butter in a saucepan, add 
one teaspoonful of flour, cook until smooth, but not 
brown, then add gradually one large cup of cold milk, 
stirring all the time until it boils up; put in the potatoes, 
which should be cut up fine and salted and peppered ; 



20 MRS. LIVEEMOBE'S 



let them cook abput three minutes in the sauce, just 
enough to heat them. 



DINNER. 



BEEF sour. 

Take a shank bone, put cold water over it, enough 
to cover in the kettle, let it slowly come to a boil; 
skim before it boils, throw in some salt, skim again, 
let it boil gently until nearly tender, then put in inore 
salt to taste, one small red pepper, one-half tea cup of 
rice ; slice two onions, same quantity of turnip and 
cabbage, nine or ten potatoes, and boil till thoroughly 
done, it will not cook too much, is better if cooked 
over for next day's dinner ; put in butter if not rich 
enough of itself. 

roKK sour. 

Slice and fry brown in a kettle a few slices of pork, 
then pour over them boiling water sufficient for din- 
ner, put in sliced turnip and potatoes and boil tender. 
Cook one hour ; season with pepper and salt. 

OYSTER SOUP. 

To three pints water, just boiling, put one quart 
oysters, season with butter, pepper and salt, and 
cream or milk added just before done if preferred; let 
them come to a boil ; roll some crackers fine ; put 
in the soup tureen, pour the hot broth on them; serve 
with chopped cabbage in vinegar. 

KOAST BEEF. 

Wash and pour over it boiling water, to set the 
juices, then rub on and all over it, pepper, salt and 
flour ; put on the stove with water ; when the water 
boils in the dripping pan ; put into a hot oven ; baste 



PB ACTIO AL HOUSEHOLD ASSISTANT. 21 

over with the contents of the dripper. Stir flour and 
Avater to a paste and make a gravy of the juice in the 
dripper after the roast is taken up, be careful not to 
boil it quickly so it will be evenly done ; serve separ- 
ately. A careful cook will taste of such cookery when 
preparing it, before placing on the table, to determine 
about seasoning. 

ROAST SPARE RIB. 

Roast this the same as beef ; serve with mashed po- 
tatoes, strew a little powdered sage over the meat if 
preferred. 

Beef having a tendency to be tough, can be made 
very palatable by stewing gently for two hours with 
salt and pepper, taking out about a pint of the liquor 
when half done, and letting the rest boil into the 
meat. Brown the meat in the pot. After taking up, 
make a gravy of the pint of liquor saved. 

CORXED BEEF. 

Make the water very salt, put in fresh beef and boil. 
It is as^good as corned beef. 

CHICKEN POT-PIE. 

Three cups of butter milk, or sour milk and cream, 
one large teaspoonful saleratus, one-half teaspoonful 
salt. Make the dough hard as bread and knead it in 
a loaf same as bread, cut in inch slices and roll them 
in flour separately. Have the fowl nearly cooked with 
sufficient broth to cover it and the broth well seasoned- 
Lay in the crust, let it boil twenty or thirty minutes 
without ceasing, keeping it tightly covered all the 
time. Have a paste of flour and water read}^ to 
thicken the gravy immediately on taking out the 
crust; eat while hot. 

CHICKEN PIE. 

Boil the chicken until tender, salt to the taste, make 
a crust with one quart flour, two small tabespoonsful 



22 MJiS. L1VERM0R1<:'S 

lard, one teaspoonful salt, one teaspoonful soda, two 
of cream tartar, sifted with the flour ; two cups sweet 
milk. AVork the lard in the flour as quickly as possi- 
ble, and make the dough as soft as you cati roll out. 
Line a deep dish with the crust, j^ut in the cliickcn, 
with the large bones removed, one small tea cup of 
the chicken broth, a little salt and pepper; cover with 
the crust, and bake one hour. Serve with gravy made 
from the chicken broth. 

It is said that boiled hams are much nicer to stand 
in the water in which they were boiled until cold- 
The outside does not then turn black and dry up as it 
does when taken from the water to cool ; but remem" 
ber to remove the lid of the kettle, so that the steam 
may escape. 

TO BOIL POTATOES. 

Different kinds of potatoes need boiling differently ; 
all should be dry and mealy when done. It is well 
to Avash one half a bushel at a time so they will be dry 
to peel, and one can select those of a size to cook by 
themselves ; keep them in a dark place till ready to 
use them. Peel and drop in cold .water; have the 
water boiling when put in. The Hose potato will 
cook quickly and through evenly. For Peachblows, 
after boiling nearly done add cold w^ater to 
cool the water and let finish b}^ boiling till done. 
This cooks them through more evenly; pour off the 
water, cover and let steam done if diflicult to cook 
without breaking. 

TO ]\[ASH POTATOES. 

Mash thoroughly fine and long before seasoning 
with ])uttor, salt, and cream or milk. 

POTATO PUFF. 

Two cups mashed potato, two tablespoonsful melted 



PRACriOAL HOUSEHOLD ASSISTANT 23 

butter beaten together till light; beat in two eggs, one 
cupful milk and a little salt; turn into a buttered dish 
and bake in a quick oven till well browned. 

POTATOES TO BROIL. 

After boiling potatoes not quite sufficiently to send 
to table, put them on a.gridion over a slow fire, and 
turn them frequently until they are of a nice brown 
color all over; serve them hot; take care they do not 
become too hot, as that spoils the flavor. 

CABBAGE COLD SLAW. 

One cup vinegar, one-half teaspoonful mustard, 
salt and pepper, one tablespoonful sugar; chop or 
shred the cabbage and pour the liquid over it. 

FRIED CABBAGE. 

One spoonful of butter or drippings, and one small 
cabbage. Chop the cabbage and season with salt and 
pepper; let stand fifteen minutes. Heat the kettle 
hissing hot, put in the butter and cabbage ; cover for 
a minute ; stir often, it will cook in fifteen minutes 
and leave no odor in the house ; if preferred put in 
vinegar or cream or both just before taking up. 

STEWED CABBAGE. 

Shred a small cabbage as for cold slaw ; boil in 
water for twenty minutes, then drain thoroughly and 
cover with sweet milk. Cook until tender, season to 
taste with butter, pepper and salt, and just before 
serving add the yoke of a beaten egg mixed with a 
little sweet cream. 

HOT SLAW. 

Shave the cabbage fine ; put it on with hot water 
enough to cook it ; when it is done put a little milk 
in, salt and pepper ; then rub a little flour in some 
butter and stir in. An egg may be stirred in in place 
of the flour. 



24 Afr.S. LlVEUMORE'ti 

ONIONS. 

To every quart of onions a quart of cold water, 
with a half teaspoonful of salt. Boil not too last for 
one hour. Drain ; make a sauce witli a tablespoonful of 
butter, same of flour, and one-half pint of milk ; rub 
butter and Hour perfectly together, using a pinch of 
black pepper. Boil milk, which pour over flour and 
butter, and stir all the time to keep smooth. Put 
onions in sauce and let them heat, until the same 
boils. Ought to be served rather dry. 

Keep onions in a well ventilated room free from 
moisture and very cold. 

FllIEI) ONIONS. 

Peel and slice, let them remain in the water some 
time, sit in a draft of air or before the stove draft, 
while preparing them to prevent the eyes smarting. 
Put some drippings in the frying pan and let it heat; 
add the onions, stir often, fry, a delicate brown, salt 
and pepper to taste; serve hot. 

BEETS. 

Bake beets in a moderate oven, turn them often, do 
not cut them to let the juice flow. Season with but- 
ter, salt and pepper; serve piping hot. 

BAKED SQUASH. 

Cut the squash into slices half an inch thick, pare 
them and sprinkle with a little salt and sugar. Put 
bits of butter over each slice and bake in a pan; serve 
hot. 

Steam or boil them with the rind on them, remove 
the skin and season after being well mashed. Sugar 
added to beets, sc[uash and turnips is an improvement 
especially if of an inferior quality. 

To make macaroni tender, put it in cold water and 
bring it to a boil. It will then be much more tender 
than if put in hot water or stewed in milk. 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD ASSISTANT. 25 

In cooking a fowl, to ascertain when it is done put 
a skewer into the hreast and if tlie breast is tender 
the fowl is done. 

BAKED INDIAN PUDDING. 

One quart of sweet milk brought to a boil, seven 
tablespoonsful of meal stirred in while hot, one cup of 
sugar, two eggs beaten with the sugar, one teaspoonful 
of ginger, one teaspoonful of salt, butter size of an 
Qgg. Bake one hour, then stir in some cold milk to 
make it whey and bake two hours longer. 

THE QUEEN OF PUDDINGS. 
Take one pint of bread crumbs, add one quart of 
milk, one cup sugar, the yolks of four eggs well beaten, 
the rind of a fresh lemon grated fine, a piece of butter 
the size of an egg, then bake until well done. Now 
beat' the whites of the four eggs to a stiff froth, add- 
ing a teacupful of powdered sugar, in which has pre- 
viously been stirred the juice of tlie lemon. Spread 
over the pudding a layer of jelly ( any kind to the 
taste), then pour the whites of the eggs over, and 
place in the oven till lightly browned. Serve with 
cold cream. None better. 

CORN BPvEAD PUDDING. 

Soak relnnants of corn bread in milk, make quite 
thin and break up fine, to one quart add one-half cup 
sugar, two eggs well beaten, a spoonful of butter; bake 
one hour. Serve with butter and sugar, stirred to a 
cream and flavored to taste. Better than raw meal. 

SPONGE PUDDING. 
One cup sugar, one-half cup milk, two and one-half 
flour, four tablespoonsful of melted butter, three tea- 
spoonsful of baking powder. Put some raisins in 
buttered teacups and pour on the batter; steam three- 



2() MBS. LIVERMORE'S 

fourths of an hour; turn out; it will mould niceh'-, and 
serve with cream and sugar or sour sauce. 

SUET PUDDING. 

One cup molassess, one cup suet, one cup raisins, 
one cup sweet milk, three cups flour even full, one 
tablespoonful soda. Steam three hours; serve with 
sour or w^ine sauce. 

COMMON PUDDING SA.UCE. 

One pint water, butter the size of an egg, one cup 
of sugar, thicken with flour, and vinegar, added to 
make it tart, season with nutmeg. 

INDIAN MEAL MUSH. 

Let the water come to a boil, salt it to taste, sift the 
meal and stir in slowly at first, then more rapidly; 
wdien quite thick throw in a teacup of cold water, it 
will break all the lumps, add more meal and a -hand- 
ful of flour, thicken till it drops from the spoon, do 
not make it stiff enough to hold the stick upright as 
our grandmothers did, let it cook one hour or longer, 
stirring often; turn in a dish to mould. 

When cold it is very nice fried for breakfast. Cut 
in slices, lay in the spider with pork fat or butter, 
cover, let it remain awhile over the fire, turn and 
cover again, now remove the cover for a few minutes 
to crust it a nice brown; serve with syrup. 

MINUTE PUDDING. 

Put one quart of milk upon the fire; when it comes 
to a boil add three tablespoonsful of flour, wet up in 
a little of the cold milk ; stir briskly with a 
spoon until it thickens, then flavor with one teaspoon- 
ful of extract of lemon; put in a mold. To be eaten 
cold with cream and sugar. A little salt. 

PIES. 

Always use pure lard or butter. Mix shortning and 
flour together dry and stir in the water a little at a 



PRACTWAL ILOUSEHOLB ASSISTANT. 27 

time with a knife, the heat of the hand softens it too 
much, always liave the lard cold, this makes whiter 
crust ,but not so rich as butter with it. Do not by any 
means mould or knead it but take it in lumps on the 
board and with plenty of flour roll out with the roll- 
ing pin, sprinkle with flour, and roll it about one- 
fourth inch thick, line the plate with this ( granite 
ware is the best ) for the upper crust roll out the size 
cut in cjuarters and sprinkle plenty of flour between 
the quarters, lay them on each other, roll again, this 
will make it flakey. If for custards or anything that 
will soak the crust, size over with the white of an egg 
before putting in the filling, wet the under crust 
where the edges join the upper crust, and sprinkle dry 
flour around the edge to prevent juices running out. 
For pies with no upper crust flute the edge with 
the left forefinger pressed between the right forefinger 
and thumb, it raises the edges somewhat and gives it 
a neat appearance. Baking powder is a great help to 
make it light and puffy. Make the crust and put in 
a cool place while preparing the filling. 

PIE CRUST FOR TWO TIES. 

Four cups of flour, one-half cup of lard, one-half 
cup of butter, water sufficient to wet the flour, one 
half teaspoonful salt, one-half teaspoonful baking 
powder. 

RHUBARB PIE. 

Line the plate with crust, fill with the stalks after 
peeling them and cutting in one-half inch pieces, put 
one cup of sugar, and as much more as your con- 
science will allow; squeeze some lemon juice over it, 
sprinkle thickly with flour, put on an upper crust, 
stew gently while baking, remove, brush over the 
crust with the white of an egg, cover thickly with 



28 MRS. LIVERMOBE'S 

granulated sugar, cut when cool and eat while fresh as 
all fruit pies should be. 

ANOTHER. 

Cut the stalks in squares without peeling, sufficient 
for a pie, pour boiling water over it, let it remain till 
cool, throw off the water, put the rhubarb in the plate 
after lining with crust, cover with one cup of sugar, 
two tablespoonsful of flour, and grate one-half of an 
orange peel over it, superior flavor to lemon for this 
kind of pies. 

APPLE PIE, 

Use small quarters, instead of slices, of tart apples, 
season with sugar, butter, cinnamon and nutmeg. 

WINTER CREAM PIES. 

Line the plate with pie paste and place in the oven 
to bake. After it is done, lay away until cold, or 
when needed for the table. For filling, beat or whip 
cream to a froth. Sweeten, and flavor it with vanilla 
or lemon, and fill the pie. Ornament the top with a 
few pieces of jelly. 

PUMPKIN PIE. 

In a quart bowl put four large tablespoonsful of 
pumpkin, one tablespoonful of flour, two eggs, one 
teaspoonful of cinnamon, one-half teaspoonful ginger, 
two large tablespoonsful of sugar, beat thoroughly, 
then fill the bowl with sweet milk. Line two plates 
with paste; fill and bake a long while. 

LEMON CUSTARD PIE. 

One lemon, one cup sugar, two eggs, the 3'olks only, 
three tablespoonsful of flour made in a paste with 
milk enough to fill the plate, grate off the yellow rind, 
do not use any of the white skin that is bitter, squeeze 
the juice in the sugar, beat the yolks and stir all to- 
gether, line a plate with pie paste and fill, bake evenly; 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD ASSISTANT. 29 

whfen done beat the whites of eggs with four table- 
spoonsful of sugar and a pinch of baking powder, 
cover the custard and return to the oven to brown 
slightly. 

LEMOX PIE. 

One cup of sugar, one cup of boiling water, one ta- 
blespoonful of cornstarch, one tablespoonful of butter, 
one lemon, two eggs; wet the cornstarch and pour 
over it the boiling water, stir till clear, add butter, 
sugar and grated rind of the lemon. When cool add 
juice of lemon and the yolks of the eggs well beaten. 
Line a plate with the paste, fill and bake moderately, 
when done beat the whites Avith sugar and a pinch of 
baking powder and cover, return and brown slightly. 

MINCE PIE. 

One pint of chopped meat, one quart of chopped 
apple, very sour, season with boiled cider, jellies, 
spices, sweet cider, molasses and sugar to taste, also 
raisins, zante currants, citron and butter. 

ANOTHER. 

Four pounds of lean beef, one pound of beef suet 
chopped in flour, eight pounds of sour apples, two 
pounds seeded raisins, one pound zante currants dried 
and washed, three-fourth pound citron ehredded tine, 
two cups of liquor that the meat was boiled in, four 
tablespoonsful of cinnamon, one tables j)00nful of 
cloves, two tablespoonsful of allspice, one tablespoon- 
ful of mace, one tablespoonful of black pepper, two 
tablespoonsful of nutmegs, three pounds of sugar, one 
pint of molasses, two quarts of boiled cider, jelly, jam 
or brandy added as required. Cook till the apples are 
done, chop all fine and separately, let the apples re- 
main over night before using them, after they are 
chopped, to darken them, let the meat stand in the 



30 3niS. LIVERMORE'S 

water it was boiled in, it should be stewed nearly out 
of it; if too dry add sweet cider, use empty fruit cans 
o keep it in for summer use, pack it in jars and cover 
with molasses for immediate use, it will keep so for a 
long time; pies are better kept some time. 

JELLY TAKTLETS. 

Make a rich paste, line small patty-pans, pricking 
the paste in the bottom to keep it from pufhing too 
high; bake in a quick oven and fill with jelly or jam. 



RELISHES FOR DINNER. 

I 



CEANBERRY SAUCE. 

Pat a quart of clean cranberries into a saucepan 
with a cupful of cold water, stew slowly, stirring often 
for an hour and a half; take from the fire and sprinkle 
abundantly with white sugar ; rub through a fine co- 
lander, and set to form in a wet mold, or serve stewed 
with turkey or chicken. 

Sour apple sauce is greatly improved b}^ the addition 
of a teaspoonful of butter to a quart of sauce, and 
moreover there is much less sugar needed. In absence 
of butter, a little salt will improve it. 

CHILI SAUCE. 

Thirty ripe tomatoes, ten onions, ten teacups vine- 
gar, fifteen tablespoonsful sugar, five tablespoonsful 
salt, rod pepper to taste, boil one hour. Nothing 
nicer for ripe tomatoes and keeps well in a jar. 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD ASSISTANT 31 

CHERRY CATSUP. 

Six pounds cherries without the pits, three pounds 
sugar, three pints vinegar ; simmer together two 
hours, just before taking from the fire, add nutmeg, 
cinnamon, cloves, allspice to taste. Nothing nicer for 
cold meats. 

PEPPER SAUCE. 

Mix cayenne pepper with any jelly before mould- 
ing, just sufficient to taste. 

CHOW CHOW. 
One quart vinegar, one-fourth pound mustard, 
ground; two ounces ginger, two ounces pepper, one 
spoonful mace, one teaspoonful cloves. Boil all in the 
vinegar, w^et the mustard and ginger, first in cold 
water. Peel and cut in bits one-half dozen cucum- 
bers, one-half dozen onions, string beans and cauli- 
flower; salt and let thein stand ten minutes, when the 
vinegar is cold put the cucumbers in large mouthed 
bottles or jars, pour over the vinegar, tie down tight. 
It will be fit for use in one Aveek. 

PICKLE LILY. 

One bushel of green tomatoes, one-half j^ieck pep- 
pers, twelve good sized onions, one ounce cloves 
ground course, one ounce cinnamon, two heads cab- 
bage, one quart sugar. Chop all fine, salt and drain 
over night ; boil in strong vinegar till tender, then 
drain and mix the spices, and sugar. Pack solid and 
cover with boiling vinegar, in the spring fill empty 
fruit cans for summer use and it makes a nice relish 
through liot weather. 

DELICIOUS PICKLED CABBAGE. 

One large white cabbage, two quarts cider vinegar, 
one teaspoonful cloves, one cinnamon, one allspice, 
one mace, one tablespoonful salt. Chop the cabbage 



32 MRS. LIVERMORE'S 

fine, place all in a kettle and boil five minirtes tie the 
spices in bags, put away in a cool place. Nothing 
nicer. 



CHAPTER IV. 



BREAD AND CAKES. 



HOME MADE YEAST. 

Boil one .handful of hops in a pint of water ten min- 
utes, while boiling, grate six medium sized potatoes and 
stir in after straining while hot, then add one cup of salt 
and boil again, when cool add one cup of yeast, some of 
any kind will start this, afterwards take some of this 
kind once a month, or as often as you renew the yeast. 

Raise this by the fire in a pan, and then keep in the 
cellar, with a board underneath and tightly covered 
above: this keeps easy and well. 

HOME MADE YEAST BREAD. 

Eight good sized potatoes boiled and mashed well, 
one tablespoonful of lard ; put the potatoes, lard and 
one cup of yeast in a pan with the amount of wetting 
you wish for a baking and thicken with flour for sponge; 
set it at night and knead thoroughly in the morning. 
This is the best veast bread I ever tasted. 



3* MBS. LIVERMORE'S 

BREAD OF YEAKT CAKES. 

For five loaves, boil six large potatoes, when well 
done skim them out and mash them fine, add the water 
in which they were boiled, and flour enough to make as 
stiif as sponge; when cool put in two yeast cakes whicli 
have been soaked in warm water ; set this at noon, and 
leave on the table to rise; at night mix the bread up hard 
adding what water you need ; in the morning knead 
again and put into the tins to rise again, it is not neces- 
sary to put near the lire; this is the very best bread of 
this kind. 

LIGHTENING RISING BREAD. 

Scald one-half cup of sweet milk, stir in quite thick 
with' sifted meal, set over night in summer, and longer 
in winter, in the morning make a batter, same as for salt 
rising with only flour and water ; put one heaping spoon- 
ful of the rising, which should be slightly light, and in 
one hour it will be ready for the sponge. 

Pour boiling water on one-half of the flour used for 
the bread ; mix it, add emptiugs and more luke warm 
water or milk or salt in a sponge, let rise and knead long 
and well, (jive it a blow with the hand and if it re- 
bounds it will be line and moist. Scalding the flour 
makes it moist and hastens tlie rising, 
RAILROAD EMPTINGS. 

One pint canell, one teaspoonful salt, one teaspoon- 
ful saleratus, one teaspoonful sugar, one teaspoonful 
ginger, keep in a glass can. Take one-half cup of the 
mixture, pour boiling water on it to the consistency of 
salt rising ; let it stand in a warm place twenty-four 
hours, when light add one tablespoonful to salt rising 
for a baking. It comes quickly but does not make as 
pleasant tasting bread as either of the other kind. 
Scald half the flour, raise with a sponge first, let rise 



PBACTlt'AL HOUSEHOLD ASSISTANT. ?.r> 

in the tins after considerable kneading, bake till it 
cleaves from the tin; cool before putting in ajar. 

IXDIAN BREAD. 

Two cups sour milk, one cup sweet milk, one-half 
molasses, one teaspoonful saleratus, one teaspoonful 
salt ; equal parts of meal and r3^e, meal and graham 
or meal and wheat flour, thicken the batter until it 
will run. from the spoon and no longer. Steam two 
and one-half hours and bake one-half hour, take from 
the oven, pour a cup of cold water over the top and 
and cover quickly, to soften the crust; let stand a few 
moments before removing from the tin. 

CORN BREAD. 

Two tea cups sour milk, two teacups meal, one-half 
teacup flour, one spoonful molasses, one teaspoonful 
saleratus, one-half teaspoonful salt, two spoonsful but- 
ter or drippings, stir all together, put in the drippings 
hot just before putting in the baking pan. 

GRAHAM GEMS. 

To one pint of sour milk take one egg, one spoonful 
of sugar, and one teaspoonful of soda, and good 
fresh Graham flour enough to make a stiff 
batter. To be baked in iron gem pans, with a quick, 
hot fire. They will be delicious, light, putfy, and 
tender. Beat well. 



CAKE. 

RULES FOR MAKING. 

Be accurate in measuring ; cream the butter and 
sugar; beat the whites and yolks separately ; test the 
baking by running a clean brown splint into it ; if it 
comes out clean it is done ; put blank newspaper or 



36 3IRS. LIVEEMOBE'S 

tissue in the bottom of tlie bake tins if the oven bakes 

quicker on the bottom ; take stiff brown paper, make 
a square, tent like, to put over it to prevent burning 
the top, letting the edge rest on the bottom of the 
oven rather than on the cake ; tlie hot air will pass 
under it and the paper Avill not impede the baking; 
but prevent burning ; it should rise sufficiently before 
the crust forms ; put the baking powder into the 
flour before stirring it in; put the saleratus in cold 
water enough to take the lumps from it; ]:)ut in one 
teaspoonful of baking powder into sour milk cake 
to insure success, but not strictly necessary. There 
are three different mothods of cake making in the 
following receipts,and surely one or the other will please. 



CAKES OF BAKING POWDER. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

One teacup sugar, two tablespoonsful butter, one 
Qgg, one-half cup of milk, one and one-third cup of 
flour, one and one-half teaspoonsful of baking powder; 
bake in jell cake tins for filling ; this will keep some 
time. 

FILLING. 

One-half cup of milk, one-half bar of grated choco- 
late, yolk of one eg^g, one teaspoonful corn starch, one 
teaspoonful vanilla ; boil together milk and choco- 
late; then add egg, and corn starch and flavoring. 

COCOANUT CAKE, 

One cup sugar, one-half cup butter, one cup sweet 
milk, two cups flour, two eggs, two teaspoonsful bak- 
ing powder, three tablespoonsful dessicated cocoanut, 
soaked in sweet milk ; make a thin frosting with the 
white of one egg, bake in two cakes, put the frosting 



PB ACTIO AL HOUSEHOLD ASSISTANT. 37 

and cocoanut between, and sprinkle dr}'^ cocoanut on 
the top, with frosting. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

Three eggs, one cup sugar, one cup flour, two table- 
spoonsful cold water, two teaspoonsful baking powder, 
beat slightly and bake quickly. 

LIBBIE'S CAKE. 

One cup white sugar, one-half cup butter, one-half 
cup sweet milk, two cups flour, ( two teaspoonsful of 
baking powder,) two eggs, well beaten, flavoring; add 
fruit or change the flavoring and this will make the 
different kinds of cake ordinarially used and never 
fails. ^ 

DOUGHNUTS. 

Two eggs, five spoonsful sugar, two spoonsful butter, 
made hot, one-half cup sweet milk, one and one-half 
teaspoonful baking powder; mix soft, fry in hot lard. 



CAKES OF CREAM TARTAR AND SODA. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

One and one-half cup of sugar, one cup of sweet 
milk, four tablespoonsful melted butter, two tea- 
spoonsful cream tartar, one teaspoonful soda ; roll out 
soft and cut some fancy shape or in plain circles; dust 
with sugar while warm. 

COOKIES. 

Two cups sugar, one cup butter, one cup milk, one 
teaspoonful creim tartar, one-half teaspoonful soda; 
after they are rolled out sift on granulated sugar and 
bake; mix soft. 

WALNUT CAKE. 

One and one-half cups sugar, one-half cup of butter, 
one cup sweet milk, one cnp walnut meats, two and 



38 MUS. LIVERMORE'S 

one-half cups flour, one teaspoonful cream tartar, one- 
half teaspoonful soda. 

ROLLED JELLY CAKE. 

Three eggs, one cup sugar, three tablespoonsful of 
sweet cream, one teaspoonful cream tartar, one-half 
teaspoonful soda. 

DELICATE SPONGE CAKE. 

One and one-half cup white sugar, one and one-half 
cup flour, one teaspoonful cream tartar, one-half tea- 
spoonful of soda ; the whites of eight eggs beaten to a 
froth. 

GOLD CAKE. 

One and one half cup of sugar, one-half cup of but- 
ter, one-half cup sweet milk, three cups flour, one tea- 
spoonful cream tartar, one-half teaspoonful soda, yolks 
of five eggs. 

SILVER CAKE. 

One and one-half cup white sugar, one-half cup 
butter, one-half cup sweet milk, one teaspoonful cream 
tartar, one-half teaspoonful soda, whites of five eggs 
well beaten, one cup of cornstarch and a little flour; 
flavor with lemon. 



SALERATUS CAKES. 

JELL CAKE, 

One cup sugar, one cup flour, one and one-half cup 
sour cream, two eggs, one teaspoonful saleratus; bake 
in jell tins and fill between with jelly or lemon cream. 

CUSTARD CAKE. 

One cup sugar, three eggs, four tablespoonsful sour 
cream, one-half teaspoonful soda, mix and stir in one 
and one-half cups of flour; bake in jelly tins. 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD ASSISTANT 39- 

FILLING. 

Boil one pint of sweet milk, one cup of sugar, one- 
half cup of butter, two tablespoonsful of corn starch 
mixed with water, and stirred till it thickens to a cus- 
tard. 

COOKIES No 1. 

One cup sugar, one cup butter, one-half cup sour 
milk, one egg, one teaspoonful saleratus; mix soft, sea- 
son with nutmeg. 

COOKIES No. 2. 

One and one-half cups sugar, two-thirds of a cup of 
butter, two eggs, four tablespoonsful sour milk, one 
teaspoonful saleratus ; mix soft with flour. 
GINGER COOKIES No. 1. 

One cup sugar, one cup molasses, one cup butter 
and drippings mixed, one cup boiling water, one ta- 
blespoonful ginger, one tablespoonful saleratus ; be 
sure and have the water boiling and mix soft. 

GINGER COOKIES No. 2. 

Two cups New Orleans molasses, one cup sugar, one 
and one-half cup butter or drippings, one cup boiling 
water with four teaspoonsful of soda stirred in, one 
teaspoonful ginger; bake quick. 

SOFT GINGER CAKE. 

One cup molasses, one cup sour cream, one tea- 
spoonful ginger, one teaspoonful saleratus, a pinch of 
salt; bake niceh''; the best ever made. 

GINGER BREAD. 

One cup molasses, one cup sugar, one-half cup drip- 
pings and butter mixed, one cup sour milk, two cups 
flour, one and one-half teaspoonsful saleratus, two 
teaspoonsful ginger, two eggs and salt; excellent. 



CHAPTER V. 



CARPETS. 



TO MAKE A RAG CARPET ONE YARD WIDE. 

Prepare rags for the filling by tearing lengthwise 
of the cloth as fine as the strength of the cloth will 
admit; the finer the meshes and lighter the carpet 
the better it wears ; the warp should be fine and run 
six knots to the yard; ten pounds of warp M'ill make over 
twenty-five yards of carpet. Use calico without color- 
ing for main stripe, commencing with the darkest 
color and shade to light, then back to dark again, 
about six inches wide, wpigh the rags for the main 
stripe, they should weigh a little more than one-third 
of all allowing one and one-fourth pound for one yard; 
white rags color nicely in blue, yellow and green, 
darker rags make brown, if no flannel is used buy 
cardinal red in plain calico and twist with black or 
white, tear very fine and twist on a wheel, both black 
and red, then twist together again. A pretty gray is 



I 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD ASSISTANT. 41 

made by raveling out yarn, coloring it black and 
twisting it with white cotton yarn ; should you wish 
to color it any other color do so without first coloring 
the yarn black, and when twisted together, the wool 
takes dark and cotton a lighter shade, ( as in green ) 
and looks nicely for the fancy stripe between plain 
colors. Put red next green, blue next orange, or black 
and orange, be particular that the colors blend well. 
After coloring brown rags, select one-fourth of the 
warp and put iii to take up the die ; color one-fourth 
of the warp copperas, one-fourth dark green, one- 
fourth drab, stripe the warp with the different colors, 
allowing each color to be four aiid a half inches wide. 
It is advisable to use all cotton rags in bed rooms or 
where there is danger of moths working. To get a 
nice, red that will not fade use cochineal on woolen 
goods. All goods should be rinsed in warm water 
before coloring. 

COCHINEAL. 

One pound woolen rags, one and one-half ounce 
cochineal, two ounces muriate of tin, one ounce eream 
tartar ; use brass or tin, pulverize the cochineal, put 
in the water cold, also the cream tartar, let it boil, 
skim; then put in the muriate of tin, boil again, put 
in the goods, scald one hour, take out and air when 
cool; rinse in soft water. 

BLUE. 

Three ounces oxalic acid, three ounces Prussian 
blue, five pound cotton rags; dissolve each in a pail of 
warm water; dip first in the acid water then in the 
blue, alternately, until dark enougli to suit ; rinse 
thoroughly. 

YELLOW. 

Five pounds cotton goods, one and one-half pound 



42 MBS. LIVEBMORE'S 

sugar of lead, twelve ounces bi-cromate of potash; 
dissolve lead in hot water, dissolve potash in a tub of 
cold water, dip in the lead water first, then in the pot- 
ash, back and forth until dark enough. 

GREEN. 

Take the blue and dip in the yellow dye, and 
wring; dip again in the blue; proceed until sufficiently 
dark; rinse in cold water. 

BROWN. 

Five pounds goods, one pound catechu, three 
ounces blue vitrol, four ounces bi-chromate of potash. 
Make catechu as fine as possible ; put in sufficient 
water and boil gently two hours, then add the vitrol 
and dissolve, soak the goods an hour or two and and 
dr}^ Then dissolve the bi-croraate in water enough to 
cover the goods by pressing them down. Let the 
goods remain in this till dark enough. 

• BLACK. 

One pound goods, one ounce extract logwood, one 
ounce blue vitrol, one ounce fustic. Sufficient soft 
water to cover the goods ; boil the drugs in the w^ater 
one-half hour, put in the goods, keep boiling for an 
hour or two airing occasionally and rinse in clear 
water. These recipes were given by a carpet weaver 
who always had the best of success. 



CHAPTER VI. 



TOILET. 



FOR WHITENING THE TEETH. 

Pulverize charcoal, shave off Castile soap, dissolve 
ill spirits, thicken with charcoal to a stiff paste; add a 
little honey and perfume. 

TO WAVE THE HAIR. 

To make large waves in the hair ; part off what is 
needed from the front and twist up the rest at the 
back of the head. Take one large strand for the front 
and one smaller one, then take silk braid or strips of 
silk from the piece about one yard long ; fasten the 
center to the twist behind and bring forward for the 
third strand, braid all together and draw the hair up 
on the silk braid ; let it remain till dry ; if hard to 
wave wet with a Aveak solution of gum arabic or sugar 
water. 

TO MAKE PUFFS. 

Take about two inches of woven hair, and sew on to 



U MES. LIVEBMOBE'S 

a piece of black cap wire three inches long, pin wire 
to the knee, comb and roll up on the forefingers to the 
wire; bend each end of the wire inside to hold it firm. 
To form a row of puffs sew each to a strip of cap wire, 
leaving a bit to pin down while dressing the Lair. 

TO SOFTEN THE HANDS. 

Take equal portions of alcohol and glycerine ; mix 
and rub on the hands before retiring after washing in 
warm water ; wear woolen mittens or gloves over 
niglit. 

Avoid using most kinds of soap, they are liable to 
bring disease; brown Windsor is best. 

CHAPPED HANDS. 

Powder starch and put in a muslin bag; keep handy 
and whenever you take your hands from water dry 
them with a soft towel and dust with starch. 

TO PREVENT DANDRUFF. 

One ounce powdered borax, one tablespoonful of 
unslacked lime the size of a walnut ; put them in a 
quart of water and cork tightly ; shake often ; after 
twelve hours apply to the scalp and rinse. Use often; 
the cure is gradual and sure. 



CHAPTER VII. 



MEDICINAL. 



COMPOSITIOISr. 

Four pounds bay berry, two pounds ginger, two 
pounds hemlock, four ounces cloves, four ounces of 
cayenne pepper. Pulverize the whole and mix well; 
take one teaspoonful, pour boiling water on it, let it 
settle, drink with milk and sugar for a cold or in case 
of taking a sweat. 

ALCOHOLIC VAPOR EaTH. 

Fill a cup half full of alcohol ; place it in a saucer 
of water to insure against danger of fire. Put both 
under a solid wood bottom chair, and elevate by plac- 
ing a brick under each post ; prepare the patient for 
bed, seat in a chair and completely envelop in woolen 
blankets or quilts ; put one around, behind and lap 
one over the patient in front to prevent the heat 
escaping. Put cold water on the head and let them 
drink it, or warm tea as they prefer; put the feet in as 



46 MliS. LlVEIUIOIiE'S 

hot water as they can bear ; then set fire to the 
alcohol; if the heat is too g^reat raiee the blanket 
occasional!}', and watch the blaze to prevent accident. 
Drink often. Remain in the chair until the patient 
sweats freely, or is too tired to sit longer ; keep the 
warm blankets about them and cover warmly in bed. 
If it does not produce sweating it sends a warm glow 
through the whole system, and will break up cold or 
fever if taken in time ; is excellent in rheumatism, 
neuralgia or chills. 

CURE FOR BURNS. 

One third linseed oil, two thirds lime water ; slake 
the lime and rnix water with oil; shake well and apply; 
wrap in a soft linen cloth. 

CURE FOR EARACHE. 

Black pepper, in cotton, dipped in sweet oil, put in 
the ear. The sap from black ash is also a good cure; 
put a stick of wood in the fire, catch a few drops from 
the end of the stick though the stove door; drop in the 
ear; three drops will effect an instant cure. 

CURE FOR SICK HEADACHE. 

Take one teaspoonful of common wood ashes; put in 
a goblet of water, drink as strong as is pleasant to take; 
will relieve in a short time if caused by acidity of the 
stomach. 

FOR HICCOUGH. 

Saturate a lump of sugar with vinegar; it will stop 
it nearly ever}'- time. 

CROUP. 

Pulverize a teaspoonful of alum and twice the bulk 
of sugar and administer quickly. 

CROUP SYRUP. 

Two ounces syrup tolu, one ounce syrup ipecac, 
one-half ounce hive syrup ; dose one tesspoonful every 
three or four hours to keep the cough loose; to vomit. 



FRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD ASSISTANT 47 



one teaspoonful once in ten or twenty minutes. Give 
something to reduce fever. A sure cure. 

FAMILY OINTMENT. 

One-half pound lard, two ounce beeswax, one-fourth 
ounce camphor, one-half ounce organum oil, one-half 
laudanum, one ounce ox marrow ; dissolve camphor 
in two ounces alcohol ; melt wax, lard and marrow; 
stir all together till cool. Good for burns, bruises and 
sores on men or beast. 

LIQUID MEASURE. 

One tablespoonful contains one-half fluid ounce; 
one teaspoonful contains one fluid drachm ; one tea- 
spoonful contains sixty drops. 

HEALTH PULSE. 

An infant's pulse should be one hundred beats to a 
minute; a child of seven j^ears, about eighty and from 
twenty to sixty years, seventy beats. A slight varia- 
tion in different persons. 



CHAPTER VIII. 



MISCELLANEOUS. 



TO CLEAN KID GLOVES. 

One quart deodorized benzine, one dram sulplmr 
ether, one dram chloroform, two drams oil wintergreen, 
two drams alcohol. Brush with a clean cloth or 
sponge and hang to dry. 

AXOTHEll. 

Buy Danforth's burning fluid, by the quart ( five 
cents ) or gallon, keep well corked ; it is very explo- 
sive, only licensed dealers keep it, found at hardware 
stores generally. Put in a wash bowl and lay the 
gloves on a white cloth, dip a rag in the fluid and go 
over the gloves, the soiled parts thoroughly, have a 
round stick to put into the fingers and with a clean 
cloth rub them clean, hang in the air to dry; all soiled 
ribbons, swans down, feathers, and anything, even 
carpets 3'ield suddenly to this process. Shake feathers 
and swans down in it and then dip in cold corn 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD ASSISTANT. 49 

starch with a little indigo blue in it ; shake off the 
starch and curl with a blunt edged knife. 

TO CLEAN HAIR BRUSHES. 

One teaspoonful ammonia, one quart water; dip tlie 
brush only and comb with a coarse comb till clean, 
rinse well, rub dry and air by standing upright in an 
open window. 

TO WHITEN PORCELAIN KETTLES. 

Fill them with water, throw in a tablespoonful of 
borax and let in boil, if this does not remove the stain, 
soap a cloth and sprinkle on plenty of borax and 
scour them well. 

TO CLEANSE PORK BARRELS. 

Use sal soda water to scald or fill them with hay and 
let them remain some weeks; they will be as good as 
new. 

PAPER FOR WARMTH. 

If clothing is scarce at a hotel put some newspapers 
between the quilts ; also inside a shawl when riding; 
across the chest inside the dress and over the stock- 
ings used instead of India rubbers. 

FOR RATS OR MICE. 

Put a piece of hard soap into the hole, let it remain, 
they will not attempt to enter more than once. 

MOTHS. 

Red cedar placed among the folds of woolens will 
keep off moths; also camphor bags. 

TO KEEP BUTTER. 

A sure way to keep and restore butter that is off 
flavor. Two ounces common salt, one ounce good 
loaf sugar, one ounce saltj^eter, one pint boiling water; 
dissolve, let it cool, drain it oft" the sediment, pour 
over the butter, it will strike through it and the 
liquid will remain on it and preserve it any length 
of time; this is sufficient for a two gallon jar. 



50 IlJiS. LIVERMORE'S 

OLD JARS. 

To purify old j^rs bury them in earth and fill them 
with it ; let them remain two weeks. 

FOR CASKS. 

Use charcoal, for a disinfectant use copperas freely 
for drains and outhouses; keep some in a dish of water 
above the reach of children about the house, 

TO MAKE PICTURE NAILS FIRM. 

Remove the plaster for a little ways about the place, 
and wet some plaster of paris and fill in ; the screws 
will hold firmly after. 

TO CLEAN BOTTLES. 

Shot with ashes and water well shaken, or cut potato 
into bits and shake ; all bottles should be cleaned as 
soon as empty. 

CEMENT. 

Alum and plaster of paris wet slightly makes a good 
cement for lamps and various things. 

Paper is best for keeping stoves bright after polish- 
ing. 

RUST ON KETTLES. 

Boil pork or beef for a time. 

Pine cones make excellent kindlings for coal and 
other fires. 

CEMENT FOR EVERYTHING. 

One-half pound of Russian isinglass, one pint of 
alcohol; dissolve two da3'^s, put in a stone jar, in boil- 
ing water, add one-half pint acetic acid and melt all 
together till it boils. Cork tight. 

TO MEND CHINA. 

Mix a little lime with the white of an Qgg, shave it 
off and sift very fine, work quickly in, applying it to 
the edges, as soon as it sets it will adhere. Calcined 
plaster of paris will answer in place of lime. 

SILVER POLISH. 

One ounce spirits ammonia, two ounces soft water; 



PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD ASSISTANT. 51 

whitening enough to look like cream when shaken 
rub silver with it; then dry with a soft cloth or cha- 
mois skin, 

TIN POLISH. 

Use kerosene oil and lime, wood ashes and whiten- 
ing wash in suds and rub dry with a paper. 

CRACKS IN STOVES. 

Can be stopped by filling them with sifted ashes 
and salt mixed slightly with water. 



THE PROPRIETOR 

OF THE 

1 il 11 




Takes pleasure in referring the reader to this method 
of cutting 

LADIES' AUD CHILDREHS' GARMENTS, 

AND 

Gentlemen^ s Shirts. 

By taking seven measures one can cut a basque to 

FIT PERFECTLY, 

and gentlemen's shirts by taking three measures. 
Everything can be 

CUT ACCURATELY 

by this system, if the measures are carefully taken 
and followed according to directions in 

INSTRUCTION BOOK, 

one of which is furnished with the system. It is pre- 
pared for immediate use ; agents can sell it and give 
instructions at once, if necessary; but man}^ can use it 
by the aid of the book. 

Sold on very liberal terms at wholesale to traveling 
agents, so as to enable them to establish local agents 
everywhere. All orders filled on receipt, either by 
mail or express. If prepaid, when sent by mail, one 
three-cent stamp is required to pay the postage. 

Retail price of single chart, $1.50. 

For terms to agents address, 

R. S. BAILEY, 

Silver Creek, N. Y. 



New Books for the Family 

PUBLISHED BY THE 

LOCAL PRLNTLNG HOUSE, Silver Creek, K Y. 

Painless Childbirth. 

Painlkss Childbirth, a sciemific treaties of about 200 pages, showing the causes 
of pain at childbirth, aud how they may be effectually overcome, with valuable hints 
and suegCPtions how to beget healthy children, and the proper management of the 
moth er'bef ore, during and after coutiuement, by the well-known Physician, Surgeon 
and Author, 

JOHCISr lEI. JD^YE, 1^. ID. 



TABLE OF CONTENTS. 

Sexual Attributes— Maternity — Is Pain Necessary — Causes of Pain — Hygienic 
Management — Dietetic Treatment — Therapeutic Measures — Anesthetics — Manage- 
ment of Labor — Management After Birth — Sterility. 

Xo book has ever been offered to the public that can confer as great a benefit on 
Woman, as Painless Childuirtii I Every woman should have a copy. It contrib- 
utes to her happiness by removing all fears and anxiety, and it saves her untold 
suffering. It clearly proves that Pain is A'o( Xeceasary to Maternity, but that it 
results from conditions that can be understood, Avoided and Overcome. The hygie- 
nic management of the mother during pregnancy will enable lier to pass through this 
interesting period without experiencing the annoyances and trials that assail this 
condition. The dietetic treatment enables the niolher to improve her health and 
contribute to the unborn. In the chapter on Therapeutic Measures, such prescrip- 
tions are given as can be relied on to cure ihose ills that attend the majority of 
women, and also prepare the mother for the coming event, and render delivery short, 
safe and«asy, and the getting up speedy and certain. 

It considers the employment of Anesthetics at parturition. Tlie management of 
labor is of great importance to both mother and child at the time of birth, and the 
mother's future depends upon the propriety with which it is conducted. 

The causes of barrenness are considered and the remedies jiointed out, so that very 
nearly all homes that are cheerless because there are no little ones there, can be 
made happj' and the highest aspirations of womanhood blessed bj' the realizatJou of 
maternal desires. 

Painless Childbirth is really a wonderful work. The Author draws upon an 
extensive experience for facts to prove the views set forth. He gives no advice ex- 
cept that which is perfectly practical and can be made available by all — rich or 
poor, old or young, in country or in town. No pen dsecription can do the work 
justice, or convey an idea of its "practical value. Those qualified to judge speak of it 
as the most important human gift to woman. 

It is a common oeouiTence for the mother to be tortured by the jiaius of parturi- 
tion for from twenty-four to forty-eight hours. Eight hours would be calied a very 
easj' delivery, yet, if the directions of tiiis work are carefully followed, the delivery 
will be wholly painless, provided there is no malformation of the mother or child. 
Where the directions are not fully carried out, delivery is longer and painful in like 
proportion. 

As it has become a custom for various dealers in proprietary medicines and spe- 
cial practitioners to advertise themselves and their drugs by means of books with 
deceptive titles, we think it proper to state that this book is not an advertisement for 
either man or medicine, but is simply what it purports to be— a complete discussion 
of the coiiditions under which the human nice is perpetuated, and how the elements 
of disease may be taken away. 

Price, bound in cloth, .^1.00. Sent free by mail, carefully packed in plain wrapper 
on receipt of price. A one-dollar bill in a well-sealed letter, with address plainly 
written, will be pretty sure to reach us — certainly if register-.d. 

Address all orders to 

THE LOCAL PRINTING HOUSE, Silver Creek, N. T. 







-FOll- 




CoNSUMPTioN, Asthma, 
Chronic Bronchitis, Colds, 

^$^^^^^. Coughs, 

And all LUNG & BRON- 
CHIAL 

AFFECTIONS, 
riiE- 



?d by Df, S. 1, Pillf IGl & 00., 

Tlie efficacy of Crude Petroleum as a remedial agent has long been 
established. Years before it formed so important an article of com- 
merce as it does now, it was used by the Indians on the Cattaraugus 
(Xevv York) Keservation under the name of Seneca Oil, as a remedy for 
Rheumatism, Sprains, etc.. was considered very valuable, but its smell 
and taste were such that it required an Indian, generally to take it. 

In one shape and another it has been taken as a medicine for various 
diseases. Workmen in the oil regions use it, and tliere is scarcely a 
neighborhood where some one has not used Kerosene (a product of the 
more valuable medical agent, Crude Petroleum), for sore throats, and 
always with success. It is spoken of by various medical writers of 
))rominence also, and is classed high as a medicine. The Scientilic Am- 
erican, one of the most valuable scientific papers published, contained an 
article during the winter of 1879—80, giving the results at some length 
of a series of experiments in the use of Petroleum in Tubercular Con- 
sumption, in which, when given in the form of Pills, the cure has been 
rapiil in every one of the twenty-four cases noted. Petroleum Is A'hat 
medical men call a specific. Thus chloroform is a specific, and when 
administered a certain ell'ect that can be specified is sure to follow. 
Castor oil is a specific and when given as a medicine the result can be 
specified beforehand, and the same with a dozen other things known to 
everybody. In the same way Petroleum is a specific. Its action and re- 
sults are just as certain as cliloriform or castor oil. Petroleum is a spe- 
cific for diseases of the mucous membrane, and as all Pulmonary disor- 



ders are but a diseased condition of the mucous membrane that lines 
the tbroat, bronchial tubes and lungs, we are certain of ol)taining a 
prompt and beneficial result from its use in such cases. It is to be o.b- 
served that there is a dift'erence between tlie natural specitics and those 
made by this and that "doctor." Nature's remetlies are always to be 
relied upon to produce the same effects under the same circumstances. 
The specifics are good or bad according to the honor of the one who 
compounds them and the people who buy them have to "trust to luck" 
for the result. 

Knowing that the great drawbaclc to the use of Petroleum has been 
its disagreeable taste, Dr. S. M. Prentice of Irving, N. Y., was en- 
gaged for a long time in devising means for overcoming this obstacle, 
but has at last succeeded in maiving an agreeable preparation, upon the 
excellence and efficacy of which he is willing to risk a hard earned rep- 
utation gained in thirty years practice. 

The first and perhaps most important remedy is 

I^ET:R,OX.EXJIv^ 001VE^=0XJ3SriD, 

A compound of Petroleum Syrup and Cod Liver Oil. It is not claimed 
that tiiis remedy will manufacture anew lung where the one originallv 
provided by nature has been destroyed. l)Ut v/here consumption has not 
passed to the last stages, it will cure every time. In chronic bronchitis 
and asthma it is equally efficacious. To the afflicted we earnestly rec- 
ommend a trial. It will cost but a trifle, and will certainly produce the 
desired eft'ect. People who cannot lie down at night and sleep because 
they choke up with the asthma, will find that four doses daily ( the last 
before going to bed ) will enable them to thereafter rest in' peace and 
effect a permanent cure in a reasonable time. Begin by taking ver.v 
small doses and follow with larger ones as the system becomes accustoni- 
ed to the remed}^ and the result will astonish the invalid and his friends. 
The Compound is put up in laige bottles only. Price SI per bottle. 

For some, especially people traveling, it is more convenient to take 
medicine in the form of some solid substance, and to meet this demand 
we have i)re]iared our 

I=»ETE,OIL.EXJIv3: :E>XXjXjS,. 

They are maile of the simple Crude Petroleum and have the same 
effect as the Petroleum Compound, though in cases where the cough is 
distressing the Petroleum Syrup and Cod Liver Oil will give relief 
sooner, and is recommended. The Pills are put up in boxes containing 
from 120 to 130. and will be sent, postage paid, by "mail, with full direc- 
tions, on receipt of price, $1 per Box. The next preparation is 

Every year there are thousands of people catching cold. They are 
troubled with a cough, which eventually runs into something more se- 
rious. In cases of this kind the quickest and best remedy ever made is 
Petroleum Syrup. Its action is prompt and certain and is an infallible 
preventative of those dread iliseases, consumption and chronic bronchitis. 
Large bottles $1, medium 50 cents, trial size 25 cents. 

I>ETR,OLETJJVI F-A.STE. 

Hundreds of childreu taken to an untimely grave l>y diphtheria each year, could he 
easily and quickly cured by the use of Petroleum Paste. Its action brings speedy re- 
lief and certain cure, in cases of croup and whooping cough it is the only remedy 
that is at once safe and sure. In case of a raw sore throat, an irritating, hacking 
oouirh, a sudden cold, in adults or children, it is a never failing and prompt remedy, 
and will produce a permanent cure iu a few hours if taken according to directions on 
the bottle. Price 25 cents. 

If applied according to directions will cure Rheumatism, Neuralgia, Headache, Sore 
Throat, ( outward application only ), Backache, Sprains, Bruises, Cramps, Bowel 
Complaints, and those diseases for which Liniments are used, except raw sores, such 
as cuts, for which it is rather strong. Ladies loho suffer from Backache are requested 
to laake one trial. Price 25 cents. 

FOR SALE BY ALL DEALERS. 

If your druggist does not have it write to the manufacturers and proprietors. 

Dr. S. M. PKENTICE & Co., Silvkk Ciseek, N. Y. 



FAT AND LEAN. 

«EC01Sr3D E3DITI03Sr. 

By Dr. D . C . ] U L I E N . 



The success attending- the sale of tlie lirst edition of 
Fat and Lean has induced tlie publishers to add to and 
greatly improve it in its Second Edition. 

Fat and Lean is a ])lain ftnd comprehensive essay on 
the conditions which tend to make a person excessively fot, 
and on those whicli inaivc one lean and emaciated. Both 
conditions are the result of a disordered condition of the 
system, either acquired or inherited, and when these condi- 
tions are understood and the treatment for the restoration of 
health poijited out, it is a simple matter to eftect the desired 
change. This book gives full instrnctions, with prescrip- 
tions, where medical treatment is desirable, by which any 
one can obtain certain results. It is a synopsis of all that is 
known by the medical iirofession on the subject. 

Published in pamphlet form only. Price 25 cents. One 

cent stamps taken. 

Address, 

LOCAL PPtlXTIA^^^ HOUSE, 

Silver Creek, X. Y. 

THE SILVER^CREEK COUNTERFEIT DETECTIVE. 

An eight-page, forty-c^olumn monthly papei", containing' 
a complete list of all counterfeit money known to be in circu- 
lation at each date of publication, besides much valuable 
information for everyone in business, and a large amount of 
the latest and best literature. It is a very desirable paper for 
everyone who handles money. 

SUBSCRIPTION PRICE. 

One Copy one year, - - O.2.") cents. 

" '' three months, - - 0.07 " 

Five copies one year, - - 8L00 

Address, 

LOCAL PRINTING HOUSE, 

Silver Creek, N. Y. 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 



014 184 228 6 • 




