TRIED AND APPROVED. 




ucKEYE Cookery 



AND 



PRACTICAL HOUSEKEEPING. 



REVISED AND ENLARGED. 



EIGHTIETH THOUSAND. 



BUCKEYE PUBLISHING COMPANY, 

MINNEAPOLIS, MINN. 
1880. 



Copyright, 1880, 

BY 

Buckeye Publishing Gompany, 



Fa&HKLiN Type Poundey 
Electrotypers, 
Cincinnati, Ohio. 



070 THOSE 

PLUCKY HOUSEWIVES 

WHO MASTER THEIR WORK INSTEAD OF ALLOWING IT TO MASTER THEMj 

THIS BOOK IS DEDICATED. 



TABLE OF CONTENTS. 



Bread-making 

Cake-making 

Creams and Custards 

Confectionery 

Canning Fruits 

Catsups and Sauces... 
Drinks 



Eggs 145-150 

Fish 151-158 

FrVITB 159-166 

G^^ME 167—173 

Ices and Ice-cream , 174—180 

Jellies and Jams , 181—189 

Meats..., 190—209 

Pastry 210-224 

Puddings and Sauces o 225—242 

Preserves.... 243—253 

Pickles 254—270 

POVLTRY 271-286 

Salads 287—294 

Shell-fish 295-303 

Soups , 304-319 

Vegetables 320—345 

Table of Weights and Measures 346 

Cook's Time-table ..; , 347 

Bills op Fare 348—352 

For Additional Recipes 353—360 

Fragments , 361—368 

Housekeeping , 369—391 

Dining-room , , 392—397 

Kitchen. .".Z .!..'.*.'.'." 398-^417 

Management op Help 418—420 

Marketing 421 429 

Carving ... 430-431 

How to Cut and Cure Meats 432—437 

Hints on Butter-making 438—439 

Laundry 0... , 440 454 

Cellar and Ice-house , , 455 ^59 

Something About Babies 460—462 

Hints for the Well 463—468 

Hints for the Sick-room 469—480 

The Arts op the Toilet 481—488 

Accidents and Sudden Sickness „ 489—495 

Memcal 496-505 

Miscellaneous ^ ^ „„ 506-510 



^^^'^ABETICAL lNDEX...t,»«"«»» ••.•••»••••••••.••..,,,,„« ,,„,,M..»,..»»,«»t«»M»M...««»t.iM.»o». ••••«.». 511—520 

(4) 



PAGES. 

7— 58 
59—101 
102—112 
113—118 
119—127 
128—136 



PREFACE. 



Fortunately it is becoming fashionable to economize, and 
housekeepers are really finding it a pleasant pastime to search out 
and stop wastes in household expenses, and to exercise the thou- 
sand little economies which thoughtful and careful women under- 
stand so readily and practice with such grace. Somebody has 
said that a well-to-do French family would live on what an Amer- 
ican household in the same condition of life wastes, and this may 
not be a great exaggeration. Here, the greatest source of waste is 
in the blunders and experiments of the inexperienced. Women are 
slow to learn by the experience of others. Every young house- 
keeper must begin at the beginning (unless her mother was wise 
enough to give her a careful training), and blunder into a know- 
ledge of the practical duties of the household, wasting time, tem- 
per and money in mistakes, when such simple instructions as any 
skillful housewife might readily give would be an almost perfect 
guide. Lately there have been attempts to gather such instruc- 
tions as are needed into a book, but they have been partial fail- 
ures, because the authors have been good book-makers, but poor 
bread-makers, or because, while practically familiar with the sub- 
jects tr-ated, they have failed to express clearly and concisely the 
full processes in detail. In compiling this new candidate for favor, 
the one aim has been to pack between its covers the greatest 
possible amount of practical information of real value to all, and 
especially to the inexperienced. It is not a hap-hazard collection 
of recipes, gathered at random from doubtful sources, but has 

(V) 



VI 



PREFACE, 



been made up, without sparing time, labor, or expense, from the 
choicest bits of the best experience of hundreds who have long 
traveled the daily round of household duties, not reluctantly like 
drudges, but lovingly, with heart and hand fully enlisted in the 
work. Those housewives, especially, whose purses are not over-ple- 
thoric will, it is believed, find its pages full of timely and helpful 
suggestions in their efforts to make the balance of the household 
ledger appear on the right side, without lessening the excellence 
of the table or robbing home of any comfort or attraction. 

The arrangement of subjects treated, whenever practicable, has 
been made in the simple order of the alphabet, and for the sake 
of still more ready reference a very full alphabetical index has 
been added. The instructions which precede the recipes of each 
department have been carefully made up, and are entirely trust- 
worthy, and the recipes themselves are new to print and well in» 
dorsed. Several suggestive articles have also been introduced, 
which, though not belonging strictly to cookery, bear such close 
relations to it that the fitness of their appearance in the connection 
is evident. 

There has been no attempt at display or efiect, the only purpose 
being to express ideas as clearly and concisely as possible, and to 
make a thoroughly simple and practical work„ In the efibrt to 
avoid the mistakes of others, greater errors may have been com- 
mitted; but the book is submitted just as it is to the generous judg- 
ment of those who consult it, with the hope that it may lessen 
their perplexities, and stimulate that just pride without "«ghich 
work is drudgery and great excellence impossible. 



BREAD-MAKING. 



The old saying, bread is the staff of life," has sound reason in 
it. Flour made from wheat, and meal from oats and Indian corn, 
are rich in the waste-repairing elements, starch and albumen, and 
head the list of articles of food for man. Good bread makes the 
loLomeliest meal acceptable, and the coarsest fare appetizing, while 
the most luxurious table is not even tolerable without it. Light, 
crisp rolls for breakfast, spongy, sweet bread for dinner, and flaky 
biscuit for supper, cover a multitude of culinary sins ; and there is 
no one thing on which the health and comfort of a family so much 
depends as the quality of its home-made loaves. 

Opinions as to what constitutes good bread differ, perhaps, as 
inuch as tastes and opinions concerning any thing else, but all will 
agree that bread, to be good, ought to be light, sweet— that is, free 
from any perceptible acid or yeasty taste— flaky, granular or not 
liable to become a doughy mass, and as white as the grade of flour 
used will allow. If members of the family have delicate digestive 
powers, they will not use new bread, and therefore must have such 
as will keep with little change of texture and none of quality or 
taste, for several days. To obtain these qualities in bread, use the 
best flour, in families where no bread is wasted, the best is cheap- 
est. The good old Genesee Valley white winter wheat, of Western 
New York, makes a flour unsurpassed in quality. The Michigan, 
Ohio, Indiana and Missouri white winter wheat grades are much 
the same, but the Minnesota hard spring wheat ^^new process" 
flour is the equal of the best, and is so much superior in strength 
that one-eighth less is used in all recipes for bread and cake. The 
common or straight" brands are used by the great majority of 
families, and from all of them good, uniform and palatable bread 
may be made. 



8 



BBEAD-MAKING, 



Housekeepers seldom select flour by examiuation. They usually 
take some tried brand, or select on the recommendation of their fur- 
nisher. No rule can be given by which an inexperienced person can 
determine the grade of flour with accuracy, but a few hints will 
enable any one to know what not to buy. Good flour adheres to 
the hand, and, when pressed, shows the imprint of the lines of the 
skin. Its tint is cream white. Never buy that which has a blue- 
white tinge. Poor flour is not adhesive, may be blown about easily^ 
and sometimes has a dingy look, as though mixed with ashes. 

Flour should be bought in quantities corresponding to the num- 
ber in the family, that it may not become damaged by long keeping. 
In a family of five, a barrel, or even a half-barrel sack of flour ^ 
excellent when first bought, will become much deteriorated before 
being used up. A small family should always buy in twenty-five 
pound, or at largest, fifty pound sacks. Flour should be kept dry, 
cool and entirely beyond the reach of marauders, big or little, 
especially the latter, for the infinitesimal meal moth is far more to 
be dreaded than rats or mice. Therefore every receptacle of flour 
should be thoroughly and frequently cleansed, to guard against ani- 
mal as well as vegetable parasites. A single speck of mold, coming 
from old or damp flour in an obscure corner of the flour-box, will 
leaven the whole as rapidly and strongly as ten times its weight in 
yeast. In no event should flour be used without being sifted. 

Bread-making seems a simple process enough, but it requires a 
delicate care and watchfulness, and a thorough knowledge of all 
the contingencies of the process, dependent on the difierent qualities 
of flour, and the varying kinds and conditions of yeast, and the 
change of seasons ; the process which raises bread successfully in 
winter making it sour in summer. There are many little things in 
bread-making which require accurate observation, and, while valu- 
able recipes and well-defined methods in detail are invaluable aids, 
nothing but experience will secure the name merited by so few, 
though earnestly coveted by every practical, sensible housekeeper— 
**an excellent bread-maker." Three things are indispensable to 
success: good flour, good yeast, and watchful care. Never use 
flour without sifting ; and a large tin or wooden pail with a tight- 
fitting cover, kept full of sifted flour, will be found a great conven- 



BREAD-MAKING. 



9 



ience. All kinds of flour and meal , except buckwheat and Graham— 
and Graham, too, when coarse— need sifting, and all, like wheat 
flour, should be bought in small quantities, as they become damp 
and musty by long standing. 

The Yeast. 

After the flour, the yeast or leaven is the next essential element 
in bread. For regular fare most, especially women, prefer yeast 
bread," but men who can not forget *'how their mother used to 
cook," have a liking for salt-rising" bread, and the latter deserves 
the acquaintance of the housekeeper and a frequent welcome on 
the family table. The dry hop yeast, such as Twin Bros. , Stratton's,, 
3S[ational, Eagle, Gillett's, and many others, are all good, if fresh,, 
and always available, for they are found in every grocery. Many 
housekeepers use baker's yeast, and buy for a penny or two what 
will serve each baking of bread. Potato yeast has two advantages 
over other kinds ; bread made from it keeps moist longer, and there 
is no danger that an excess of yeast will injure the flavor of the 
bread. 

The Sponge. 

This is made from warm water or milk, yeast and flour (some add 
mashed potatoes) mixed together in the proportion of one pint wet- 
ting (water or milk) to two pints of sifted flour. If milk is used 
it should be new, and must be first scalded, and then cooled to blood 
heat. The scalding tends to prevent souring. In using water bring 
it to blood heat. If the '^wetting" is too hot, the bread will be 
coarse. When water is used a tablespoon* of lard or butter makes 
the bread more tender. Bread made from milk is, of course, more 
tender and nutritious, but it has not the sweet taste of the wheat,, 
and will not kuep as long as that made from water. When mixed 
with milk it requires less flour and less kneading. In summer, care 
must be taken not to set sponge too early, at least not before eight 
or nine o'clock in the evening. (Sponge mixed with bran water, 
warm in winter and cold in summer, makes sweeter bread. Boil 
bran in the proportion of one pint to a quart of water and strain.) 
In very hot weather, sponge may be made with cold water. In 
winter, mix the batter with water or milk, at blood warmth, testing 

♦Whenever, in this book, the words cupful, coffee-cupful, tea-cupful, table-spoonful, etc.^ 
occur, the termination " ful " is dropped, for the sake of brevity. 



10 



BBEAD'MAKING. 



it with the finger, and making it as warm as can be borne ; stir in 
the flour, which will cool it sufficiently for the yeast ; cover closely 
and place in a warm and even temperature. A good plan is to fold 
a clean blanket several times, and cover with it, providing the 
sponge is set in a very large crock or jar, so that there is no danger 
of its running over. As a general rule, one small tea-cup of yeast 
and three pints of "wetting" will make sponge enough for four 
ordinary loaves. In ail sponges add the yeast last, making sure that 
the sponge is not hot enough to scald it; when placed to rise, 
always cover closely. In cold weather the temperature runs down very 
quickly, in many kitchens, after the fire is out, and the bread should 
be set earlier in the evening, and in a warmer place ; a temperature 
oi eighty or ninety degrees is right. When it rises well for the first 
two hours, it will go on rising unless the temperature falls below the 
freezing point. It is an improvement to beat the sponge thoroughly, 
like batter for a cake, for fifteen minutes. Never set sponge in tin, 
but always in stoneware, because a more steady and uniform heat 
can be maintained in a stone jar than in tin. 

TO MAKE GOOD BREAD, 

Always be 

" Up in the morning early, just at the peep of day," 

in summer time, to prevent the sponge becoming sour by too long 
standing, and in winter to be getting materials warmed and in readi- 
ness for use. A large, seamless tin dish-pan with handles and a 
tight-fitting cover, kept for this^ purpose alone, is better than a 
wooden bowl for bread. It should be thoroughly washed and 
scalded every time it is used. Measure and sift the flour. It is 
convenient to keep two quart cups, one for dry and the other for 
liquid measuring. In winter always warm the flour (by placing it in 
a pan in a ivarm oven for a few minutes or by setting it over night 
where it will be kept at the same temperature as the sponge) and also 
the sponge. Put the flour in a bread pan, make a large well in the cen- 
ter, into which pour the sponge, adding two level tea-spoons of salt (this 
is the quantity for four loaves of bread) ; mix well, being careful not 
to get the dough too stifi*; turn out on the bread-board, rub the pan 
clean, and add the rubbings" to the bread. Knead for from 
forty-five minutes to one hour, or until the dough ceases to stick to 



BREAD-MAKING. 



11 



either the board or hands. Do not stop kneading until done. Any 
pause in the process injures the bread. The process of kneading is 
very important. Use just as httle flour in kneading as will prevent 
sticking, and practice will enable one to make a little flour go a 
great way. Some good bread-makers knead with the palm of the 
hands until the dough is a flat cake, then fold once, repeating this 
operation until the dough is perfectly smooth and elastic; others 
close the hands and press hard and quickly into the dough with the 
fists, dipping them into the flour when the dough sticks; or, after 
kneading, chop with the chopping knife and then knead again; 
others still knead with a potato-masher, thinking it a great saving 
of strength. Another method, used by good bread-makers, is to 
raise the whole mass and drop or dash it with considerable force upon 
the mixing-board or table for several minutes. No exact directions 
can be given, but experience and practice will prove the best guides. 
After the bread is thoroughly kneaded, form into a round mass or 
large loaf, sprinkle the bread-pan well with flour, - and, having 
placed the loaf in it, sprinkle flour lightly on the top (some grease 
the top with salted lard or butter instead of sprinkling with flour) ; 
cover closely, and set to rise in a warm temperature ; let it rise to 
twice its original size this time, say from one to two hours, diflering 
in time with the season of the year. Then knead down in the pan, 
cut into equal parts, place one at a time on the board, mold each 
into a .mooth, oblong loaf, not too large, and put one after another 
into a well-greased baking-pan ; grease the tops of the loaves with 
salted lard or butter, and set to rise. Or the loaves may be made 
by buttering the hands, and taking enough from the mass to form 
a loaf, molding it into shape in the Jmnds, without using flour. This 
insures a nice, brown, tender crust. Loaves made in the French 
style, long and narrow, are about half crust, and more easily di- 
gested, the action of heat anticipating part of the digestive process. 
In molding, do not leave any lumps or loose flour adhering to the 
outside, but mold until the loaves are perfectly smooth. No par- 
ticular directions can be given in regard to the time bread should 
stand after it is molded and placed in the pans, because here is the 
point where observation and discretion are so indispensable. In hot 
weather, when the yeast is very good and the bread very light, it 



12 



BEEAD-MAKINO. 



must not stand over fifteen minutes before placing to bake. If it is 
cold weather, and the yeast is less active, or the bread not perfectly 
raised, it may sometimes stand an hour in the pans without injury. 
When it is risen so as to seam or crack, it is ready for the oven ; if 
it stands after this it becomes sour, and even if it does not sour it 
loses its freshness and sweetness, aud the bread becomes dry sooner 
after baking. Bread should undergo but two fermentations ; the 
saccharine or sweet fermentation, and the vinous, when it smells 
something like foaming beer. The housewife who would have good, 
sweet bread, must never let it pass this change, because the third 
or acetous fermentation then takes place. This last can be remedied 
by addmg soda m the proportion of one tea-spoon to each quart of 
wetting ; or, which is the same thing, a tea-spoon to four quarts of 
flour; but the bread will be much less nutritious and healthful, and 
some of the best elements of the flour will be lost. Always add 
salt to all bread, biscuit, griddle-cakes, etc., but never salt sponge. 
A small quantity of white sugar is an improvement to all bread 
dough. Bread should always be mixed as soft as it can he handled^ 
but in using the new process" flour, made from spring wheat, the 
dough requires to be much harder than is necessary when using that 
made from winter wheat. 

To Bake Bread. 

Here is the important point, for the bread may be perfect thus 
far and then be spoiled in baking. No definite rules can be given 
that apply equally well to every stove and range ; but one general 
rule must be observed, which is, to have a steady, moderate heat, 
such as is more minutely described in the directions for baking large 
cakes. The oven must be just hot enough ; if too hot, a firm crust 
is formed before the bread has expanded enough, and it will be 
heavy. To test the heat, place a teaspoon of flour on an old piece 
of crockery (to secure an even heat) , and set in middle of the oven ; 
if it browns in one minute the heat is right. An oven in which the 
bare hand and arm can not be held longer than to count twenty 
moderately, is hot enough. The attention of stove-makers seems 
never to have been directed to the fact that there is no accurate 
means of testing the heat of ovens, but it is to be hoped that in the 



BBEAD'MAKING. 



13 



near future some simple device may be found which will render 
unnecessary such inaccurate and untrustworthy tests as must now be 
used, and thus reduce baking to a science. To test whether the 
bread is done, break the loaves apart and press gently with 
the finger; if elastic it is done, but if clammy, not done, and must 
be returned to the oven; or, if the loa/es are single, test with a 
straw plucked from a broom. Break ojff the branches and thrust 
the larger end into the loaf; if it is sticky when withdrawn, the 
bread is not done, but if free from dough it is ready to be removed 
from the oven. The little projections on the straw, where the 
branches have been broken off, catch and bring out the dough, 
when not thoroughly baked. 

The time required for baking is not less than three-quarters of an 
hour, and bread baked a full hour is more wholesome and is gen- 
erally considered more palatable. The little fairy that hovers 
over' successful bread-making is heat, not too little nor too much, 
but uniform." 

When removed from the oven, take the loaves out of the pan, 
grease the entire outer crust with melted butter, and tilt them on 
edge, so as to secure a free circulation of air. It is better not^ to 
cover bread while warm, unless with a light cloth to keep off flies. 
Thoroughly exposed to the air the surface cools first, insuring a crisp 
crust and the retention of the moisture in the loaf There are 
those, however, who follow successfully the plan of wrapping the 
bread, as soon as it is removed from the oven, in a coarse towel or 
bread-cloth. Never put warm bread next to wood, as the part in 
contact will have a bad taste. Spread a cloth over the table before 

placing the bread on it. 

Good bread-makers differ widely as to the number of times bread 
should rise, some insisting that the rule of our good grandmothers, 
who only allowed it to rise once, insures the sweetest and most nutri- 
tious bread, and that in all subsequent fermentations, a decomposi- 
tion takes places that is damaging to the wholesome qualities of the 
" staff of life." 

If by accident or neglect the bread is baked too hard, rub the 
loaf over with butter, wet a towel and wrap it in it, and cover with 
another dry towel. In winter, bread dough may be kept sweet 



14 



BREAD-MAKING, 



several days by placing it where it will be cold without freezing, oi 
by putting it so deep into the flour barrel as to exclude it entirely 
from the air. When wanted for use, make into bread, or, by add- 
irig the proper ingredients, into cake, rusk, biscuit, apple dump- 
lings, chicken pie, etc. 

When the bread is eold^ place in a stone jar or tin box, which 
must be thoroughly washed, scalded and dried each baking day. A 
still better receptacle for bread is a tin wash-boiler with a close 
cover, kept for this purpose alone. When small, single loaf pang 
are used, the bread may be removed to cool, the pans washed and 
dried, and the loaves afterwards replaced each in its pan, and then 
set away in a box or boiler. The pan helps to keep the bread 
moist and palatable for several days. 

The best pan for bread is made of Kussia iron (which is but little 
more costly than tin and will last many times as long), about four 
by ten inches on the bottom, flaring to the top, and about four and 
one-half inches deep. The pan should be greased very lightly for 
bread. 

Attention to neatness, important in all cookery, is doubly im- 
portant in bread-making. Be sure that the hair is neatly combed 
and put up (which ought to be done before the dress is put on 
every morning), and that the hands, arms and finger-nails are 
scrupulously clean. A neat calico apron with bib, and sleeves of 
dress well-tucked up and fastened so that they will not come down, 
add much to the comfort of this the most important task of the 
kitchen queen. 

There are three critical points in the process of bread-making : 
the condition of the yeast, which must never be used if sour; the 
temperature where the bread is set to rise, which must not be so hot 
as to scald ; and the temperature of the oven, which must be uni- 
form, neither too hot nor too cold. 

In cuttmg warm bread for the table, heat the knife, and, whether 
hot or cold, cut only as much as will be eaten. It is better to 
replenish the bread-plate once or even twice during a meal than to 
have slices left over to dry up and waste. 

When using coal, put into the fire-box enough to finish the baking; 
adding more during the process is apt to render the oven-heat 



BREAB'MAEINQ, 



15 



irregular. When wood is used, make agood Tiot fire, see that the 
stove has a good, free draft, and let it cool to an even, steady heat 
before putting the bread in the oven. The finest bread may be com» 
pletely spoiled in baking, and a freshly-made fire can not be easily 
regulated. 

The patent iron shelves, made to be attached to the pipes of 
stoves and ranges, are very convenient places for placing bread to 
rise. They give the necessary warmth, and the height is conven- 
ient for watching. 

The proportion of gluten in wheat, and consequently in flour,, 
varies greatly in. difierent varieties. Flour in which gluten is 
abundant will absorb much more liquid than that which contains a 
greater proportion of starch, and consequently is stronger ; that is, 
will make more bread to a given quantity. Gluten is a flesh-former , 
and starch a heat-giver, in the nutritive processes of the body. 
Flour containing a good proportion of gluten remains a compact 
mass when compressed in the hand, while starchy flour crumbles 
and lacks adhesive properties. Neither gluten or starch dissolve 
in coU water. The gluten is a grayish, tough, elastic substance. 
In yeast-bread, the yeast, in fermenting, combines with the sugar in 
the flour and the sugar which has been added to the flour, and car- 
bonic acid gas and alcohol are produced. The gas tries to escape, 
but is confined by the elastic, strong gluten which forms the walls 
of the cells in which it is held, its expansion changmg the solid 
dough into a light, spongy mass. The kneading process distributee 
the yeast thoroughly through the bread, making the grain even. 
The water used in mixing the bread softens the gluten, and cements 
all the particles of flour together, ready for the action of the car- 
bonic acid gas. In baking, the loaf grows larger as the heat ex- 
pands the carbonic acid gas, and converts the water into steam and 
the alcohol into vapor, but it, meantime, loses one-sixth of its weight 
by the escape of these through the pores of the bread. Some of the 
starch changes into gum, the cells of the rest are broken by the 
heat, the gluten is softened and made tender, and the bread is in 
the condition most easily acted upon by the digestive fluids. 

There is a great difi*erence of opinion as to the comparative mer- 
its of bread made from fine flour, and Graham, or whole wheat 



16 



BEEAD-MAKING. 



flour. The latter is undoubtedly best for persons who lead seden- 
tary lives, as the coarse particles stimulate the digestive organs, 
<jausing the fluids to flow more freely; while for those who follow 
active, out-of-door pursuits, the fine flour bread is probably best, as 
being more nutritious and economical, because wholly digested. 

There is an old and true saying, that ' ' she who has baked a good 
batch of bread has done a good days work." Bread-making should 
stand at the head of domestic accomplishments, since the health 
and happiness of the family depends immeasurably upon good 
bread ; and there is certain to come a time in the experience of 
^very true, thoughtful woman when she is glad and proud of her 
ability to make nice, sweet loaves, free from soda, alum, and other 
injurious ingredients, or bitter regret that she neglected to learn, 
or was so unfortunate as not to have been taught, at least the first 
requisites of good bread-making. 

Graham and Corn Bread. 

It is very desirable that every family should have a constant 
supply of bread made of unbolted flour, or rye and Indian corn. 
Most persons find it palatable, and it promotes health. For these 
coarse breads, always add a little brown sugar or molasses, and the 
amount given in the recipes may be increased according to taste. 
They rise quicker and in a less warm atmosphere than without 
sweetening. A little lard or butter improves bread or cakes made 
of Graham or Indian meal, rendering them light and tender. 
Graham rises rather more quickly than fine flour (as the whol^ 
wheat flour contains a larger proportion of gluten, and fermentation 
is more rapid), and should not be allowed to rise quite as light. 
The pans should be greased more thoroughly for Graham and corn 
bread than for that made from fine flour. The fire should be steady 
and sufficient to complete the baking, and the oven hot when the 
bread is put in. A fresh blaze will burn the crust, while a steady 
Are will sweeten it. Graham bread bakes more slowly than fine- 
flour bread, and corn bread requires more time and a hotter oven 
than either. Use either yellow or white corn, ground coarse, for 
mush, and white, ground fine, for bread, etc. In cutting the latter 
while warm, heat the knife, and hold it perpendicularly. Eye is 



BREAD-MAKING, 



17 



^said to absorb more moisture from the air than any other grain ; 
hence, all bread from this meal needs a longer application of heat, 
End keeps moister after being baked than that made from other 
grain. 

Sponge for Winter Use. 

Peel and boil four or five medium-sized potatoes in two quarts of 
water (which will boil down to one quart by thet ime the potatoes 
are cooked) : when done, take out and press through a colander, or 
mash very fine in the crock in which the sponge is to be made ; 
make a well in the center, into which put one cup of flour, and pour 
over it the boiling water from the potatoes ; stir thoroughly, and 
when cool add a pint of tepid water, flour enough to make a thin 
batter, and a cup of yeast. This sponge makes very moist bread. 

Bread Sponge. 

Six potatoes boiled and mashed while hot, two table-spoons of 
white sugar, two of butter, one quart tepid water; into this stir 
three cups flour; beat to a smooth batter, add six table-spoons 
yeast ; set over night, and, in the morning, knead in sufiicient flour 
to make a stiff', spongy dough ; knead vigorously for fifteen min- 
utes, set away to rise, and, when light, knead for ten minutes; mold 
out into moderate-sized loaves, and let rise until they are like deli- 
cate or light sponge-cake.— ifra. George H. Bust, Minneapolis, Minn, 

Bread Sponge and Bread. 
Five pints warm water, five quarts sifted flour, one coffee-cup 
yeast ; mix in a two-gallon stone jar, cover closely, and set in a large 
tin pan, so that if the sponge rises over the top of the jar, the 
drippings may fall into the pan. Set to rise the evening before 
baking. In winter be careful to set in a warm place. In the morn- 
ing sift six quarts flour into a pail, pour the sponge into a bread- 
pan or bowl, add two table-spoons of salt, then the flour gradually ; 
mix and knead well, using up nearly all the flour. This first 
kneading is the most important, and should occupy at least twenty 
minutes. Make the bread in one large loaf, set away in a warm 
place, and cover with a cloth. It ought to rise in half an hour, 
when it should be kneaded thoroughly again for ten minutes. Then 
2 



18 



BREAD-MAKING, 



take enough dough for three good-sized loaves (a quart bowl of dough, 
to each), give five minutes kneading to each loaf, and place to rise 
in a dripping-pan well greased with lard. The loaves will be light 
in five or ten minutes, and will bake in a properly heated oven in 
half an hour. Make a well in the center of the remaining dough, 
and into it put a half tea-cup of white sugar, one tea-cup of lard, 
and two eggs, which mix thoroughly with the dough, knead into 
one large loaf, set hi a warm place about fifteen minutes to rise, andj 
when light, knead five minutes and let rise again for about ten 
minutes, when it should be light. Take out of pan, and knead on 
bread-board, roll about an inch in thickness, cut out with a biscuit-, 
cutter, and place in dripping-pan ; let rise five minutes and bake 
twenty minutes. In winter more time must be allowed for rising. 
This makes three loaves and ninety biscuit. S, A, Melehing, Marys- 
mUey Ohio, 

Bread with Buttermilk. 

The evening before baking, bring to the boilmg point two quarts 
of buttermilk (or boil sour milk and take the same quantity of the 
whey), and pour into a crock in which a scant tea-cup of sifted flour 
has been placed. Let stand till sufficiently cool, then add half a 
cup of yeast, and flour to make a thick batter; the better and 
longer the sponge is stirred the whiter will be the bread. In the 
morning sift the flour into the bread-pan, pour the sponge m the 
center, stir in some of the flour, and let stand until after break- 
fast; then mix, kneading for about half an hour, the longer the 
better; when light, mold into loaves, this time kneading as little as 
possible. The secret of good bread is having good yeast, and not 
baking too hard. This makes four loaves and forty biscuit. — Mrs. 
JIf. C Moore, Granville, Ohio. 

Good Bread. 

For four small loaves boil four large potatoes ; when done, pour 
off* the water, and when it cools add to it a yeast cake ; mash the 
potato very fine, put through a sieve, pour boiling milk on as much 
flour as is needed, let stand until cool, add the potato and yeast, a 
large tea-spoon of salt and one table-spoon of sugar ; stir very stiff, 
adding flour as is needed. Let stand in a warm place until lighty 



BBEAD-MAKING. 



19 



dissolve one tea-spoon of soda in a little liot water, mix well through 
with the hands, mold into loaves, and let rise again. When suffi- 
ciently raised place in a moderately hot oven, keeping up a steady 
fire.— ilfrs. Governor Hardin ^ Missouri. 

Hop- Yeast Beead. 

One tea-cup yeast, three pints warm water; make a thin sponge 
at tea time, cover and let it remain two hours or until very light. 
By adding the water to the flour first and having the sponge quite 
warm, it is never necessary to put the sponge over hot water or in 
an oven to make it rise. Knead into a loaf before going to bed ; in 
the morning mold into three loaves, spreading a little lard between 
as they are put in the pan. When light, bake one hour, having 
oven quite hot when the bread is put in, and very moderate when 
it is done. (Bread made in this way is never soup or heavy.) To 
have fine, light biscuit, add shortening at night, and in the morning 
make into biscuit and bake for breakfast. By this recipe bread is 
baked before the stove is cold from breakfast, and out of the* way 
for other baking. 

To cool bread there should be a board for the purpose. An oaken 
board, covered with heavy white flannel, is the best ; over this spread 
a fresh linen bread-cloth, and lay the bread on it right side up, with 
nothing over it except a very thin cover to keep off' the flies. It 
should be placed immediately in the fresh air or wind to eool : whea 
cool, place immediately in a tin box or stone jar, and cover closely. 
Bread cooled in this way will have a soft crust, and be filled with 
pure air. — Mrs J. T, Liggett, Detroit, Michigan. 

Bread with Potato Sponge. 
Pare and boil four or five potatoes, mash fine, and add one pint 
of flour ; pour on the mixture first boiling water enough to moisten 
well, then about one quart of cold water, after which add flour 
enough to make a stiff* batter. When cooled to ''scarcely milk 
warm," put in one-half pint (or more will do no harm) of yeast, 
and let it stand in a warm place over night ; in the morning add to 
this sponge one cup of lard, stir in flour, and knead well. The 
more kneading the finer and whiter the bread will be ; pounding 
also with a potato-masher improves the bread greatly, and is rather 



20 



BBEAB-MAKING. 



easier than so much kneading. When quite stiff and w-ell worked 
and pounded, let it rise again, and when light, make into loaves or 
biscuit, adding no more flour except to flour the hands and board— 
merely enough to prevent the bread from sticking. Let it rise 
again, then bake ; and immediately after taking from the oven, 
wrap in a wet towel until partly cold, in order to soften the crust. 
If yeast wad flour are good (essentials in all cases), the above process 
will make good bread. — Mrs. Clara Morey, Marysville, Ohio, 

Poor-Man's Bread. 

One pint of buttermilk or sour milk, one level tea-spoon soda, a 
pinch of salt, and flour enough to make as stiff as soda-biscuit dough ; 
cut into three pieces, handle as little as possible, roll an inch thick, 
place in dripping-pan, bake twenty or thirty minutes in a hot oven, 
and, when done, wrap in a bread cloth. Eat while warm, breaking 
open like a biscuit. Each cake will be about the size of a pie.— 
Mrs. ^. B. 

Bread with Potatoes. 

To one quart of blood-warm water or milk (if milk is used, it 
must first be scalded and then cooled to blood heat), take two quarts 
sifted flour and one teacup fresh potato yeast. Put the milk or 
water into a one-gallon stone crock and stir the flour gradually into 
it, then add the yeast, beating it vigorously for fifteen minutes ; set 
to rise in a warm place, putting the crock in a pan (to catch the 
drippings if it should run over). If in winter, mix it as early as 
six or seven o'clock in the evening. Cover very closely with a 
clean white cloth, with a blanket over it, kept purposely for this 
(the cloths used for bread should not be taken for any thing else). 
In the morning, sift three quarts of flour into the bread-pan, setting 
it in the oven for a few minutes to bring it to the same temperature 
as the sponge. Pare six medium-sized potatoes, and boil them in 
three pints of water ; when thoroughly cooked, remove the potatoes 
and pour the boiling hot water (which will now be about one quart) 
over the flour, stirring it with a spoon. Mash the potatoes very 
fine, and beat them as if for the table; mix them in the flour, and 
when cooled to blood heat, pour in the sponge, and mix well. Add 
more wetting or flour if needed, rub off all that adheres to the sides 



BREAD-MAKING. 



21 



of the pan, and mix Avith the dough, kneading it from forty-five 
minutes to one hour ; then place the pan to rise, cover closely with 
the cloth and blanket, setting it where there is no draft (this is im- 
perative). When it has risen to twice its size, knead down in the 
pan, take one quart of dough for each loaf, knead each five min- 
utes with quick, elastic movements, grease the sides of the loaves 
with sweet, melted butter if two or more are placed in the same 
pan ; or the loaves may be greased all over lightly before placing in 
the pan, a process which adds much to the sweetness of the crust. 
The pan should be thoroughly but lightly greased. Let rise until 
as large again as when molded, then bake. Have your oven mod- 
erately heated at first, with a fire in the stove that will keep it of a 
uniform temperature. (For manner of testing oven, see general 
instructions for bread-making.) Bake from three-quarters of an 
hour to one hour and a quarter, according to the size of the loaves, 
during which time the bread should be carefully watched to see that 
the proper degree of heat is steadily kept up. Before browning 
they will have risen to double their size when placed in the oven. 
The heat of the oven is all important, for if too hot the loaves will 
not rise sufficiently; if too cold they will rise too much, and the 
bread will be coarse and porous. When done, place on side, and 
cool without covering. Never use flour without sifting, as sifting 
enlivens and £erates the flour, and makes both mixing and rising 
easier and quicker. Quick rising makes whiter bread, and it is very 
necessary that in all its different risings, bread should be mixed as 
soon as ready. — Huldah, Sheboygan, Me. 

Bread Raised Once. 

No other yeast is made with so little trouble as potato yeast. 
Bread made from it keeps moist longer, and there is no danger of 
injuring the flavor of the bread by using too much. When plen- 
tifully used, a beautiful, light, sweet, fine-grained bread is produced 
by only one rising, thus saving not only time and trouble, but also, 
what is more important, the sweet flavor and nutritious qualities 
which greatly suffer by the second fermentation, almost universally 
practicedc When this fact is thoroughly understood, every one will 
appreciate the importance of checking excessive fermentation, dur- 



22 



BBEAD-MAKING. 



ing wHch decomposition actually takes place, and the delicate, 
foamy loaves, ''yeasted to death," which so many families now use 
and call the staff of life," will give place to the sweet, substantial 
home-made loaves, such as our good mothers and grandmothers 
kneaded with their own skilled ha^nds. 

Take care that the yeast is good and lively," for, without this, 
failure is certain. To make three loaves of bread, Avarm and lightly 
grease the baking-pans, ^ift three quarts or more of flour into the 
bread-pan, press down the middle, and into it put two small table- 
spoons of fine salt; pour in slowly one quart of milk- warm water, 
constantly stirring with one hand in the flour, until a thin batter is 
formed; add a pint or more of potato yeast or one tea-cup of hop 
yeast. (If compressed yeast is used, a yeast cake, dissolved in 
warm water, or a piece of compressed yeast as large as a walnut, 
dissolved in the same manner, is sufficient.) Mix thoroughly, add- 
ing more and more flour, until a stiff' dough is formed; place on 
the bread-board, knead vigorously for twenty minutes or more, 
flouring the board frequently to prevent the dough from sticking to 
it, divide into loaves of a size to suit pans, mold into a comely 
shape, place in pans, rub over the top a light coating of sweet, 
drawn butter, set in a warm, not too hot place to rise, cover lightly 
to keep off dust and air, watch and occasionally turn the pans 
around w^hen necessary to make the loaves rise evenly ; when risen 
to about double the original size, draw across the top of each length- 
wise w^ith a sharp knife, making a slit half an inch deep, place 
them in a moderately heated oven, and bake one hour, watching 
carefully from, time to time to make certain that a proper degree of 
heat is kept up. Before browning they will rise to double the size 
of loaf which was placed in the oven, and pans must be provided 
deep enough to retain them in shape. Bake until well done and 
nicely browned. Nothing adds more to the sweetness and digesti- 
bility of wheaten bread than thorough baking. When done, re- 
move from pans immediately, to prevent the sweating and softening 
of tha crust. — Mrs. L. B. Lyman, Antioch, Gal. 



BREAD-MAKING, 



23 



Bread Raised Twice. 

Measure out four quarts of sifted flour, take out a pint in a cup, 
and place remainder in a bread-pan. Make a well in the middle, 
into which turn one table-spoon sugar, one of salt, and one cup of 
yeast; then mix in one pint of milk which has been made blood- 
warm by adding one pint of boiling water ; beat well with a strong 
. spoon, add one table-spoon lard, knead for twenty to thirty minutes, 
and let rise over night ; in the morning knead again, make into 
loaves, let them rise one hour, and bake fifty minutes. Water may 
be used instead of the pint of milk, in which case use twice as much 
lard. 

Bread Raised Three Times. 

Begin about 5 p. m., plan for six loaves, somewhat larger than 
bakers' loaves ; take two little cakes of yeast, put them into a pint 
of tepid water, and, when soft, beat in thoroughly enough flour to 
make a thick batter, and put in a warm place. If the excellent 
''Farmer's Yeast," the recipe for which is given hereafter, is used, 
take half a tea-cup and stir into the batter. A good dish for this 
purpose is a large bowl, a broad open pitcher, or a bright three- 
quart tin pail, and it should be clean in the strictest sense. This 
should rise in about two hours; and when nearly light, take six or 
eight medium-sized potatoes, pare neatly, rinse clean, and boil in 
three pints of water till well done, mash very fine in the water 
while hot. Have ready a bread-pan of sifted flour, into which put 
a tea-spoon of salt, half a cup of white sugar, and a bit of lard as 
large as an egg ; then riddle the potato mash, hot as it is, through 
a sieve or fine colander into the flour, and stir with a kitchen spoon 
into a stifl' dough. This scalds about half the flour used in the 
batch of bread. This mass must cool till it idll not scald the yeast, 
which may now be mixed in and put in a warm, not hot, place for 
second rising, which will be accomplished by morning, when the 
kneading may be done. Kneading is the finest point of bread-mak- 
ing, and contains more of the art than any other; it requires skill, 
time, patience, and hard work. Work in flour no faster than is re- 
quired to allow thorough kneading, which can not be done in less 
;than forty-five minutes, but should not be worked much over an 



24 



BREAD-MAKING, 



hour; one hour is a good uniform rule. The mechanical "bakers- 
use sets of rollers driven by steam power, between which the dough 
is passed, coming out a sheet an inch thick; it is folded together 
several tnnes and rolled again and again. This process should be 
imitated somewhat by the hands in the family kitchen. The work- 
ing of the dough gives grain and flakiness to the bread. The dough 
when kneaded should be soft, but not sticky — stiff enough to retain 
its roundness on the board. Put back into the pan for the third 
rising, which will require but little time, and when light, cut ojST 
enough for each loaf by itself. Knead but little, and put into the 
baking-pans. If the first kneading has been well done, no more 
flour will be needed in molding into loaves. These must remain in 
the baking-pans till nearly as large as the loaves ought to be, when 
they may be put into a well-heated oven. If the oven is a trifle 
too hot, or if it tends to bake hard on the top, a piece of brown 
paper may be put over the loaves (save some clean grocer's paper 
for this purpose), and from forty to sixty minutes will cook it thor- 
oughly. After the loaves are put into the baking-pans, avoid jar- 
ring them, as it will make portions of them heavy. 

If the yeast is "set" at 5 p. m., the bread will be ready for 
dinner next day ; if in the morning, the baking will be done early 
in the evening, or twelve hours after, with fair temperature and 
good yeast. Bread made in this way will be good for a week, and, 
with fair weather and careful keeping, even two weeks. Wheu- 
dry, a slice toasted wdll be as crisp, sweet, and granular as Yan- 
kee ginger-bread. — Mrs, H. Young, Minneapolis, Minn. 

Bread, in Summer or Winter. 

In summer take three pints of cold or tepid water, four table- 
spoons of yeast, one tea-spoon of salt; stir in flour enough to make 
a thick sponge (rather thicker than griddle-cakes). Let stand until 
morning, then add more flour, mix stifl", and knead ten minutes; 
place in a pan, let rise until light, knead for another ten minutes; 
mold into four loaves, and set to rise, but do not let it get too light; 
bake in a moderate oven one hour. If bread is mixed at six o'clock . 
in the morning, the baking ought to be done by ten o'clock. 

In winter take one pint of buttermilk or clabbered milk; let it 



BBEAD-MAKINO. 



25 



scald (not boil) ; make a well in the center of the flour, into it turn 
the hot milk, add one tea-spoon of salt, enough flour and water to 
make sufficient sponge, and one tea-cup of yeast; let stand until 
morning, and then prepare the bread as in summer. This is more 
convenient to make in winter, since a hot fire is needed to heat the 
milk. — Mrs. D. Buxton, Mary sville, Ohio. 

Salt-Rising Bread. 

The leaven for this bread is prepared thus : Take a pint of warm 
water— about 90°— (if a little too hot defeat is certain) in a per- 
fectly clean bowl and stir up a thick batter, adding only a tea-spoon 
of salt ; a thorough beating of the batter is important. Set in a 
pan of warm water to secure uniformity of temperature, and in 
two to four hours it will begin to rise. The rising is much more 
sure if coarse flour or shorts" is used instead of fine flour. 

When your "rising" is nearly light enough, take a pint of milk 
and a pint of boiling water, (a table-spoon of lime water added is 
good, and often prevents souring), mix the sponge in the bread-pan, 
and when cooled to about milk-warm, stir in the rising. The 
sponge thus made will be light in two to four hours, with good 
warmth. The dough requires less kneading than yeast-raised dough. 
The bread is simpler, but not so certain of rising, and you leave 
out all the ingredients save the flour, water (milk is not essential), 
and a pinch of salt. It should be made more frequently as it dries 
faster than bread containing potatoes. Some object to it because of 
the odor in rising, which is the result of acetous fermentation, but 
the more of that the more sure you are of having sweet bread when 
baked.— ilirs. H. Young, 3Iin7ieapolis, Minn. 

Another Salt -Rising Bread. 
In summer take at night one (scant) pint of new milk, half as 
much hot water, a tea-spoon salt, one of sugar, and a very little soda. 
Mix all in a nice, sweet pitcher (it must be perfectly clean and 
sweet), stir in one table-spoon of corn meal, and add flour enough 
to make a medium batter ; stir well, place the pitcher in an iron 
kettle with quite warm water, using so much water that the pitcher 
will barely rest on the bottom of the kettle ; cover closely and leave 
all night (on the stove if the fire is nearly out) where it will he 



26 



BREAD-MAKING, 



kept warm, not hot, for an hour or two. If the pitcher is not too 
large, it will probably be full in the morning ; if not, add a spoon 
of flour, stir well, warm the water in the kettle, replace the 
pitcher, cover, and keep it warm until light. Have ready two 
quarts of sifted flour in a pan, make a hole in the center, put in an 
even tea-spoon of salt, a tea-cup of nearly boiling water ; add one 
pint of new milk, and stir a batter there in the center of the flour, 
add the ''emptyings" from the pitcher, and stir well (there will be a 
good deal of flour all round the batter; this, is right); cover with 
another pan, keep warm until light — it will rise in an hour or even 
less — when it is ready to be well kneaded, and made directly into 
loaves, which place in the baking-pans, keep well covered and warm 
until light, when it is ready to bake. The secret of success is to 
keep it warm but not at all hot This bread is good if no milk is 
used ; indeed, some prefer it made with water alone instead of milk 
and water. In cold weather, if kitchen is cold at night, do not set 
emptyings" over night, but make early in the morning, — Savillah, 
.Farina, 111. 

Boston Beown Bread. 
One heaping coflee-cup each of corn, rye and Graham meal. 
The rye meal should be as fine as the Graham, or rye flour may be 
used. Sift the three kinds together as closely as possible, and beat 
together thoroughly with two cups New Orleans or Porto Kico mo- 
lasses, two cups sweet milk, one cup sour milk, one dessert-spoon 
soda, one tea-spoon salt; pour into a tin form, place in a kettle of 
■cold water, put on and boil four hours. Put on to cook as soon as 
mixed. It may appear to be too thin, but it is not, as this recipe 
has never been known to fail. Serve warm, with baked beans or 
Thanksgiving turkey. The bread should not quite fill the form 
(or a tin pail with cover will answer), as it must have room to swell. 
See that the water does not boil up to the top of the form ; also 
take care it does not boil entirely away or stop boiling. To serve 
it, remove the lid and set it a few moments into the open oven to 
dry the top, and it will then turn out in perfect shape. This bread 
can be used as a pudding, and served with a sauce made of thick 
sonr cream, well sweetened and seasoned with nutmeg; or it is good 
toasted the next day.— Mrs. if. 8. Stevens, Minneapolis, Minn. 



BBEAD-'MAKING. 



27 



Eastern Bkown Bread. 
One pint each of ry.e or Graham and Indian meal, one cup mo- 
lasses, three-fourths cup sour milk, one and one-half tea-spoons soda, 
one and one-half pints cold water. Put on stove over cold water 
(all brown breads are better when put on to steam over cold water, 
which is afterwards brought to the boiling point and kept con- 
stantly boiling until bread is done); steam four hours, and brown 
over in the oven. 

Brown Bread. 

Two and one-half cups sour milk, and one-half cup molasses; into 
these put one heaping tea-spoon soda, two cups corn meal, one cup 
Graham flour and one tea-spoon salt. Use coffee cups. Steam 
three hours, and afterwards brown in oven. — Mrs. D. Bassett, Min- 
neapolis ^ Minn. 

Brown Bread with Horsford's Bread Preparation. 
One and a fourth cups sweet milk, one cup each corn meal and 
Graham, one-half cup molasses, and one measure (measures are 
furnished with the Horsford) each of Horsford's Bread Preparation. 
Use coffee cups. 

Bread with Mush. 
Pour two quarts hot corn-meal mush, made as for eating, over 
two quarts flour (wheat or Graham); when cool, add one quart 
sponge, one coffee cup molasses, one tea-spoon salt, half tea-spoon 
soda; mix well together; add more flour if needed, and knead 
thoroughly; mold into small loaves; let rise and bake in small 
dripping pans (a loaf in a pan), or pie- tins, in a moderate oven; 
when done, rub over with butter, place on the side, wrap in a cloth, 
and when cold put in a jar or box. This recipe makes three good- 
sized loaves and keeps moist longer than all Graham bread.— ifrs. 
W. W. Woods, Marysville, Ohio. 

Boston Corn Bread. 
One cup sweet milk, two cups sour milk, two-thirds cup molas- 
ses, one cup flour, four cups corn meal, two tea-spoons soda; steam 
three hours, and brown a few minutes in the oven.— ifrs. Ganhy, 
Bellefontaine, Ohio, 



28 



BBEAD-MAKING. 



Mrs. B.'s Corn Bread. 

One quart sour milk, tliree eggs, two table-spoons lard or butter 
(or half and half), one table-spoon sugar, a pinch of salt, handful 
of wheat flour, and enough corn meal (sifted) to make a good bat- 
ter ; add one heaping tea-spoon soda, stir thoroughly, and bake in 
long dripping pan. 

Boiled Corn Bread. 

One and one-fourth pints each of sweet milk and buttermilk or 
sour cream, half a pint molasses, one tea-spoon soda, three tea- 
spoons cream tartar, one even table-spoon salt, one and a fourth 
pints each of corn meal and flour ; sift the soda and cream tartar in 
the flour ; mix all the ingredients thoroughly together and put in a 
buttered tin pail ; cover closely, place in a kettle two-thirds full of 
boiling water ; cover, and boil steadily for three hours, replenish- 
ing when needful with boiling water. To be eaten hot with butter. 
— Mrs. L N, Burritt in ^^In the Kitehen" 

Corn Bread. 

One pint corn meal sifted, one pint flour, one pint sour milk/ 
two eggs beaten light, one-half cup sugar, piece of butter size of an 
egg ; add, the last thing, one tea-spoon soda in a little milk; add to 
the beaten egg the milk and meal alternately, then the butter and 
sugar. If sweet milk is used, add one tea-spoon cream tartar ; bake 
twenty minutes in a hot oven. — 3fTS. H, B, Sherman, Milwaukeey 
Wisconsin. 

Corn Bread. 

Take one quart buttermilk, and one heaping pint corn meal, one 
tea-spoon soda, one of salt, one table-spoon sugar and three eggs ; 
have the stove very hot, and do not bake in too deep a pan. The 
batter seems too thin, but bakes very nicely. — Mrs. J. H. Shearer ^ 
Marysville, Ohio. 

The Bread of our Forefathers. 
Put in a pan two quarts of meal, a half-pint of flour, stir up well ; 
pour in the center a pint of boiling water, stir up enough of the 
meal to make a thin batter; when cool, put in a cup of yeast, a 
tea-spoon of salt and enough warm water to make a thick batter ; 
let rise, then place in a deep, well-greased pan, cover with another 



BREAD-MAKING. 



29 



pan, and place in a moderate oven. When nearly done, remove the 
cover, and bake slowly until done. Excellent when cold. 

All baking-pans for bread should be made with covers, made of 
the same material, and high enough to permit the bread to rise to 
its full size. If pan is deep enough to permit the bread to rise 
without touching it, a flat piece of tin or sheet-iron will answer for 
the cover, or a cover may be made of paper, or another pan may 
be inverted over the bread. The office of the cover is to prevent 
the crust from browning hard before the expansion of the gases has 
made the bread light and porous.— ifrs. C. F. Confer, Litchfield, 
Minnesota, 

Plaik Cokn Bread. 
One well-heaped pint corn meal, one pint sour or buttermilk, one 
egg, one tea-spoon soda, one of salt ; bake in dripping or gem pans. 
If preferred, one heaping table-spoon of sugar may be added. 

Steamed Corn Bread. 
Two cups each corn meal, Graham flour and sour milk, two- 
thirds cup molasses, one tea-spoon soda; steam two hours and a 
half.— iMr8. Jennie Guthrie Cherry, Newark 

Graham Bread. 
Take a little over a quart of warm water, one-half cup brown 
sugar or molasses, one-fourth cup hop yeast, and one and one-half 
tea-spoons salt ; thicken the water with unbolted flour to a thin bat- 
ter ; add sugar, salt and yeast, and stir in more flour until quite 
stiff". In the morning add a small tea-spoon soda, and flour enough 
to make the batter stiff" as can be stirred with a spoon ; put it into 
pans and let rise again ; then bake in even oven, not too hot at 
first ; heep warm while rising ; smooth over the loaves with a spoon 
or knife dipped in water.— ilirs. K B. Sherman, PlanUnton House, 
Milwaukee, Wisconsin, 

Graham Bread. 
Mix three quarts Graham flour, one quart warm water, half pint 
yeast, a quarter-pint molasses, and one table-spoon salt, thoroughly; 
put in well-buttered pans, and leave in a warm place to rise, or let 
it rise over night at 60°. If left to rise slowly, let it remain in the 
bowl m which it was mixed, and unless very light when put in 



30 



BREAD-MAKING, 



pans, let it stand fifteen or twenty minutes before putting in 
the oven. 

Graham Bread, 

To one and a half pints of tepid water add one heaping tea-spoon 
of salt and one-half cup of sugar ; stir in one-half pint or more of 
the sponge made of white flour , as in recipe for ' ' Bread with Potato 
Yeast;" add Graham flour until almost too stiff to stir; put in the 
baking-pan and let rise well, which will take about two hours, bake 
in a moderate oven, and when done, wrap in a wet towel until cool. 
— ■Mrs, Clara Woods Morey. 

Quick Graham Bread. 

One and a half pints sour milk, half cup New Orleans molasses, 
a Httle salt, two tea-spoons soda dissolved in a little hot water, and 
as much Graham flour as can be stirred in with a spoon ; pour in 
well-greased pan, put in oven as soon as mixed, and bake two 
hours.— Ifrs. E. J. W. 

Rye and Indian Bread. 

One quart of rye meal or rye flour, two quarts of Indian meal, 
scalded (by placing in a pan and pouring just enough boiling water 
over it, stirring constantly with a spoon, to merely wet it, but not 
enough to make it into a batter), one-half tea-cup molasses, two tea- 
spoons salt, one of soda, one tea-cup yeast; make as stifi* as can be 
stirred with a spoon, mixing with warm water, and let rise all 
night; then put in a large pan, smooth the top with the hand 
dipped in cold water, let it stand a short time, and bake five or six 
hours. If put in the oven late in the day, let it remain all night. 
Graham may be used instead of r3'e, and baked as above. In the 
olden time it was placed in kettle, allowed to rise, then placed on 
the hearth before the fire, with coals on top of lid, and baked. — » 
Mrs. Charles Fullington, Marysville^ Ohio. 

Eye Bread. 

Make a sponge of one quart warm water, one tea cup yeast, 
thickened with rye flour; put in warm place to rise over night; 
scald one pint corn meal ; when cool add it to sponge, and add rye 
flour till thick enough to knead, hnead hut little ^ let rise, mold into 



BREAKFAST AND TEA CAKES. 



31 



loaves, place in deep pie-tins or small pudding-pans, let rise and 
bake ; or, thicken the sponge with rye flour, and proceed as above. 
Wheat sponge may be used instead of rye. — Mrs. Eliza T. Carson^ 
DelawarOy Ohio. 

Rye Bread. 

Make sponge as for wheat bread, let rise over night, then mix it 
up with the rye flour (not so stiff as wheat bread), and bake. 



BREAKFAST AND TEA CAKES. 



To make biscuit, take a part of the dough left from bread-making 
when it is ready to mold into loaves, work in the lard and any other 
ingredients desired, such as butter, eggs, sugar, spice, etc., also 
using a little more flour ; let rise once, then mix down and let rise 
again, turn out on the bread-board, knead a few minutes, roll, and 
cut out with a biscuit-cutter or mold with the hand. Place in a 
well-greased dripping-pan, and when light bake in a quick oven 
from fifteen to twenty minutes. To make them a nice color, wet 
the top with warm water just before placing in the oven. To glaze, 
brush lightly with milk and sugar, or the well-beaten yolk of an egg 
sweetened, and a little milk added. 

Biscuit may be baked in eight minutes by making the oven as 
hot as can be without burning, and allowing it to cool ofl* gradually 
as they bake ; this makes them very light, but one has to watch 
closely to keep them from being scorched. Any kind of bread or 
pastry mixed with water requires a hotter fire than that mixed with 
milk. 

Biscuit and rolls should be allowed to rise one-half longer than 
bread loaves, because the loaves of the former, being smaller, are 
penetrated sooner by the heat, and, of course, the fermentation is 
stopped sooner, and the rolls do not rise so much in the oven. 

Biscuit for tea at six must be molded two hours before, which 
will give ample time for rising and baking. Parker House rolls for 
breakfast at eight must be made ready at five. Many think it; 



S2 



BREAKFAST AND TEA CAKES. 



unnecessary to knead down either bread or biscuit as often as here 
directed ; but if attention is given to the dough at the right time, 
^nd it is not suffered to become too light, it will be much nicer, 
ivhiter, and of a finer texture if these directions are followed. 

The almost universal custom is to set the sponge at night, but 
many excellent bread-makers differ widely from this in practice, and 
their objections deserve candid consideration in this nineteenth cen- 
tury, when so much is written of dyspepsia and its causes. Some 
medical authorities assert that cancer in the stomach has its origin 
in dyspepsia, which, in the beginning, is caused by the use of indi- 
gestible yeast bread, in which the process of fermentation has been 
ullowed to go so far that a certain amount of actual decomposition 
has taken place. This is not the fault of such recipes as are given 
in Buckeye Cookery, but from failure to mix the bread at each 
successive rising at the proper time. The objection to setting sponge 
at night is, that it stands too long. Bread, to be white, sweet, and 
digestible, must be mixed immediately after the sponge has risen to 
the proper point, which may be known by its puffy appearance, usually 
rising higher in the middle than at the sides of the crock; if it sinks in 
the center, it has stood too long. 

The process of bread- making discovered by Prof. Horsford, of 
Harvard College, deserves the attention of all housekeepers. It is 
claimed, and with good reason, that the Horsford process prevents 
all decomposition, saves all the nutritious properties of the bread, 
and, by the addition of acid phosphate, renders it more easy of 
digestion. Besides this, the use of Horsford's Bread Preparation 
saves times, simplifies the whole process of bread-making, saves 
labor, and reduces the chances of failure to the minimum. These 
are considerations of great moment, especially to inexperienced 
housekeepers, leaving entirely out of consideration the fact that this 
bread may be eaten with impunity by persons whose delicate di- 
gestive organs are impaired by the use of ordinary yeast bread. It 
is certain that for rolls, biscuits, griddle-cakes, and the whole list 
of "Breakfast and Tea Cakes," the Bread Preparation" is supe- 
rior to yeast or soda, or any of the baking-powders in common use. 

Soda biscuit must be handled as little and made as rapidly as 
possible ; mix soda and cream tartar or baking-powder in the flour 



BREAKFAST AND TEA CAKES, 



3a 



(with sweet milk use baking-powder or soda and cream tartar, with 
sour milk soda alone), so that the effervescence takes place in the 
mixture. One tea-spoon soda and two of cream tartar, or three 
tea-spoons baking-powder, to every three pints of flour, is about the 
right proportion. Bake in a quick oven as soon as made, and they 
rise more quickly if put into hot pans. Gems of all kinds require 
a hot oven, but the fire should be built some time before they are 
put into the oven, and allowed to go down by the time they are 
light, as the heat necessary to raise them will burn them in baking 
if kept up. 

All biscuit and bread, except brown and Graham bread, should 
he pricked with a fork before putting them in the oven. 

Soda and raised biscuit and bread or cake, when stale, can be 
made almost as nice as fresh by plunging for an instant into cold 
water, and then placing in a pan in the oven ten or fifteen minutes ; 
thus treated they should be used immediately. 

Waffle-irons should be heated, then buttered or greased with 
lard, and one side filled with batter, closed and laid on the fire or 
placed on the stove, and after a few minutes turned on the other 
side. They take about twice as long to bake as griddle-cakes, and 
are delicious with a dressing of ground cinnamon. Muffins are 
feaked in muffin-rings. In eating them, do not cut but break them 
open. 

The success of these recipes, and all others in this book in which 
soda and cream tartar are used, will depend on the purity of these 
ingredients. Always buy the pure English bicarbonate of soda, and 
the pure cream tartar. They are higher-priced, but cheaper in the 
€nd, and are free from injurious substances. When not found at 
the grocer's, they may generally be had at the druggist's. 



Baking Powder. 

Sixteen ounces corn starch, eight of bicarbonate of soda, five of 
tartaric acid ; mix thoroughly. — Mrs. Dr. Alhriy Oberlin, Ohio. 

Eight ounces flour, eight of English bicarbonate of soda, seven 

of tartaric acid ; mix thoroughly by passing several times througk 

a sieve. — Mrs, Trimble, Mt Gilead, Ohio, 
3 



84 



BREAKFAST AND TEA CAKES. 



Breakfast Cake. 

Two table-spoons sugar, two of butter, two eggs, one cup milk^, 
one (scanty) quart flour, one tea-spoon soda, two of cream tartar ; 
bake twenty minutes in a quick oven.— -ifrs. Emily L. JBumJmmy 
Smdh NoTwalk, Gmn, 

Cinnamon Cake. 
When yeast bread is ready to knead from the sponge, knead and 
roll out three-fourths of an inch thick, put thin slices of butter on 
the top, sprinkle with cinnamon, and then with sugar; let rise well 
and bake.— Msc if. E. Wilcox, Selma, Alabama. 

Buns. 

Break one egg into a cup and fill with sweet milk ; mix with it 
half cup yeast, half cup butter, one cup sugar, enough flour to 
make a soft dough ; flavor with nutmeg. Let rise till very light, 
then mold into biscuit with a few currants. Let rise a second time 
in pan; bake, and, when nearly done, glaze with a little molasses 
and milk. Use the same cup, no matter about the size, for each 
measure. — Mrs, TT. A, James. 

Buttered Toast. 

Although toast is commonly used, few know how to prepare it 
nicely. Take bread not too fresh, cut thin and evenly, trim ofi" the 
crust-edges for the crumb-jar; first warm each side of the bread, 
then present the first side again to the fire until it takes on a rich, 
even, brown color ; treat the other side in the same way ; butter 
and serve immediately. The coals should be bright and hot. Toast 
properly made is very digestible, because all the moisture is ex- 
tracted, and the bread has become pure farina of wheat ; but when 
it is exposed to a hot fire and the outside charred, the inside remains 
as moist as ever, and butter applied to it while warm does not pene- 
trate, but floats on the surface in the form of rancid oil. Or, beat 
one cup of butter and three table-spoons flour to a cream, pour over 
this one and a half pints boiling water ; place over a kettle of boil- 
ing water for ten minutes, dip into it the toast, and serve hot. 

Or, dip each slice of toast in boiling hot water (slightly salted)^ 
spread with butter, cover and keiep hot. 



BREAKFAST AND TEA CAKES. 



35 



Excellent Toast. 
Cut slices of a uniform thickness, of half an inch ; move around 
over a brisk fire, to have all parts toasted alike ; keep only so near 
the coals that the pieces will be heated through when both sides are 
well browned. If the slightest point is blackened or charred, scrape 
it off, or it will spoil the flavor of the whole. If covered with an 
earthen bowl, it will keep both warm and moist. A clean towel or 
napkin will answer if it is to go at once to the table. Stale bread 
may be used for milk-toast ; sour bread may be improved by toast- 
ing it through, but sweet, light bread, only a day old or less, makes 
the best toast. 

Breakfast Toast. 

Add to one-half pint of sweet milk two table-spoons sugar, a 
little salt and a well-beaten egg ; dip in this slices of bread (if dry, 
let it soak a minute), and fry on a buttered griddle until it is a 
light brown on each side. This is a good way to use dry bread.— 
Mrs, Dr, Morey, Marysville, Ohio, 

Mennonite Toast. 
Beat up three eggs well, add a pint of sweet milk and a pinch of 
salt; cut slices an inch thick from a loaf of baker's bread, remove 
crust, dip slices into the eggs and milk, fry like doughnuts in very 
hot hrd or drippings, till a delicate brown, butter and sprinkle with 
powdered sugar, and serve hot. — Mrs. J. P. Eea, Lancaster, Pa, 

Bread Puffs. 

If the wheat bread is light enough for the oven at breakfast time, 
have ready some hot lard in a deep kettle ; with the thumb and two 
fingers pull up some of the dough quite thin, and cut it some two 
or three inches in length ; as these pieces are cut, drop them in the 
lard and fry like doughnuts. At table they are eaten like biscuit ; 
they may also be served in a vegetable dish with a dressing of hot 
cream, seasoned with pepper and salt. — In the Kitchen, 

Lucy's Pop-overs. 
Two tea-cups sweet milk, two tea-cups sifted flour, heaped a little, 
butter size of a walnut, two eggs, and one table-spoon sugar, a little 
salt ; bake in hot gem-pans, filled half full, for twenty minutes, and 
serve immediately. —ilfrs. W, A, James, Marshall, Mch, 



36 



BREAKFAST AND TEA CAKES, 



PoCKET-BoOKS. 

Warm one quart new milk, add one cup butter or lard, four table- 
spoons sugar, and two well-beaten eggs ; stir in flour enough to make 
a moderately stiff sponge, add a small cup of yeast, and set in a 
warm place to rise, which will take three or four hours ; then mix 
in flour enough to make a soft dough and let rise again. When well 
risen, dissolve a lump of soda size of a bean in a spoon of milk, 
work it into the dough and roll into sheets one-half inch in thick- 
ness ; spread with thin layer of butter, cut into squares, and fold 
over, pocket-book shape; put on tins or in pans to rise for a little 
while, when they will be fit for the oven. In summer the sponge 
can be made up in the morning, and rise in time to make for tea. 
In cool weather it is best to set it over night. —Mrs, J. J3". Shearer, 

Rusk, 

Two tea-cups raised dough, one tea-cup sugar, half cup butter, 
two well-beaten eggs, flour enough to make a stiff dough; set to rise, 
and when light, moid into high biscuit, and let rise again ; sift sugar 
and cinnamon over the top, and place in oven.— Ifra. Mary Lee Gere, 
Champaign, 111, 

Rusk. 

One pint milk, three eggs, one tea-cup each of butter and sugar, 
and one coffee-cup potato yeast; thicken with flour, and sponge over 
night ; in the morning stir down, let rise, and stir down again ; when 
it rises make into a loaf, and let rise again ; then roll out like soda 
biscuit, cut and put in pans, and, when light, bake carefuUy. Or 
when baking take four cups dough, one-half cup butter, one cup 
sugar, three eggs; mix thoroughly, adding enough flour to mold 
easily ; let rise, make into rather high and narrow biscuit, let rise 
again, rub the tops with a little sugar and water, then sprinkle over 
them dry sugar. Bake twenty minutes. 

Lebanon Rusk. 
One cup mashed potatoes, one of sugar, one of home-made yeast, 
three eggs ; mix together; when raised light, add half cup butter or 
lard, and flour to make a soft dough, and, when quite light, mold 
into small cakes, and let them rise again before baking. If wanted 
for tea, set about nine A. m.— ifrs. J. S: Stahr, Laneoster, Pa, 



BREAKFAST AND TEA CAKES. 



37 



Biscuit. 

Dissolve one rounded table-spoon of butter in a pint of hot milk ; 
when lukewarm stir in one quart of flour, add one beaten egg, a 
little salt, and a tea-cup of yeast; work into dough until smooth. 
If winter, set in a warm place ; if summer, in a cool one to rise. In 
the morning work softly and roll out one-half inch and cut into 
biscuit and set to rise for thirty minutes, when they will be ready 
to bake. These are delicious. 

Biscuit. 

Take one quart sifted flour (loosely put in), one measure each of 
the acid and soda (or two heaping teaspoons acid and one moder- 
ately heaping teaspoon soda) of Horsford's Bread Preparation, one 
teaspoon salt, three gills of water; shape with a spoon and the 
floured hand. 

Hard Tea Biscuit. 

Two pounds of flour, one-fourth pound butter, one salt-spoon salt, 
three gills milk ; cut up the butter and rub it in the flour, add the 
salt and milk, knead dough for half an hour, cut cakes about as 
large as a small tea-cup, and half an inch thick, prick with a fork, 
and bake in a moderate oven until they are a delicate brown. — Mrs, 
Denmead, ColumhuSy Ohio. 

High Biscuit. 

On baking days, reserve one small loaf and mix a rounded table- 
spoon butter, a level table-spoon sugar and one egg into it by pull- 
ing it to pieces with the hands ; knead into a loaf, let it rise, then, 
by rolling between the hands, make into balls the size of a small 
hen's egg, place in rows in very well greased dripping-pan; when 
half full raise the end that is empty almost perpendicular, and shake 
gently until the balls slide compactly together, then add more, and 
continue doing so until the pan is full; rub over the top with melted 
butter, let rise until very light, and bake. — Mildred. 

Maple Biscuit. 

To the well-beaten yolks of twelve eggs, add half pound of powdered 
or granulated sugar and half a cup of sweet milk ; mix one tea-spoon 
baking-powder in a (scant) half pound of sifted flour, then sift the 



38 



BREAKFAST AND TEA CAKES. 



flour gently into the batter and add flavoring, bake in biscuit pans, 
spreading the batter one and a half to two inches thick in the pan. 
If rightly made it will be very light. Do not bake too fast, and 
have the oven about as for sponge cake. When cold, cut into 
slices three inches long and one inch wide. Ice the sides, ends and 
top with white, pink and chocolate icing. Dry in oven, and then, 
if desired, the bottom may be iced. Build in square blocks and 
place on table. Serve a plate of the white, one of the pink, and 
one of the brown, or they may be mixed in building. — Mrs. J. S, 
Sperry, Nashville^ Tenn. 

South Carolina Biscuit. 

One quart sweet cream or milk, one and a half cups butter or 
fresh lard, two table-spoons white sugar, one good tea-spoon salt; 
add flour suflicient to make a stiff* dough, knead well and mold 
into neat, small biscuit with the hands, as our grandmothers used 
to do ; add one good tea-spoon cream tartar if preferred ; bake well, 
and you have good sweet biscuit that will keep for weeks in a dry 
place, and are very nice for traveling lunch. They are such as we 
used to send to the army, and the " boys " relished them hugely." — 
Mrs. Colonel Moore, Hamilton, Ohio. 

Soda Biscuit. 

Put one quart of flour, before sifting, into sieve, with one tea- 
spoon soda and two of cream tartar (or three of baking powder), 
one of salt, and one table-spoon white sugar; mix all thoroughly 
with the flour, run through sieve, rub in one level table-spoon of 
lard or butter (or half and half), wet with half pint sweet milk, 
roll on board about an inch thick, cut with biscuit cutter, and 
bake in a quick oven fifteen minutes. If you have not milk, usq 
a little more butter, and wet with water. Handle as little an(3 
make as rapidly as possible. — M. Parha. 

Spoon-Biscuit. 

One quart sour milk or buttermilk, one tea-spoon soda, a little 
salt, two table-spoons melted lard, and flour enough for a stiff* bat- 
ter ; drop in a hot gem-pan and bake in a quick oven. — Mrs. A. B» 
Morey. 



BREAKFAST AND TEA CAKES. 



39 



Sally Lunn. 

Sift into a pan a pound and a half of flour, put in two ounces of 
l)utter warmed in a pint of new milk, one salt-spoon salt, three eggs 
well beaten, and two table-spoons of good yeast. Mix well to- 
gether, and put the whole into a tin pan well greased, and set to rise 
all night. Bake a little brown in a quick oven. Warm the milk 
and butter over water until the butter is melted ; beat the eggs in 
a two-quart tin-pail, and if the milk is not hot pour it over them. 
Stir in half the flour, then add the yeast, stirring thoroughly with 
the rest of the flour. Let rise over night. Some add two table- 
spoons sugar and use a tea-spoon soda and two of cream tartar 
instead of the yeast. — Elioda, Ballsville, Va. 

Tea Cake. 

One quart flour, one cup sour milk, one tea-spoon soda, one-half 
pound lard, one-half pound chopped raisins or currants ; roll two 
inches thick and bake in a quick oven; split open, butter, and eat 
while hot. — Mrs. Ganhy, Belief ontaine. 

Breakfast Eolls. 

Mix the dough in the evening, according to directions in the recipe 
for " Bread Raised Once add a table-spoon of butter, and set where 
' it will be a little warm until morning ; cut ofl* pieces, and carefully 
shape them into rolls of the desired size by rolling them between the 
hands, but do not knead them ; dip the sides of each into drawn 
butter when they are shaped, and place them in the baking-pan 
(the butter prevents their sticking together when baked, and thejr 
will be smooth and perfect when separated). Rub them over the 
top with drawn butter, and dust a little fine salt over the top ; set 
in a warm place, and they will quickly rise ready for baking. These 
are delicious. 

Long Breakfast Rolls. 
Three and one-half cups sweet milk, one cup butter and lard 
mixed in equal proportions, one cup potato yeast, flour enough to 
make into dough. Let rise over night ; in the morning add one 
beaten egg. Knead thoroughly, and let rise again. With the 
Ihands, make into balls as large as a small hen's egg ; then roll 



40 



BREAKFAST AND TEA CAKES. 



between the hands to make long rolls (about three inches)j place^ 
close together in even rows in the pans. Let rise until light, and. 
bake delicately. 

Coffee EoLLs. 

Work into a quart of bread dough a rounded table-spoon of but- 
ter, and a half tea-cup of white sugar; add some dried currants 
(well washed and dried in the oven), sift some flour and sugar over 
them, work into the other ingredients, make into small rolls, dip - 
into melted butter, place in tins, let rise a short time, and bake. 

Dinner or French Rolls. 

Make dough as directed in recipe for ''Long Breakfast Rolls,'^ 
make into balls as large as a medium-sized hen's egg, place on a . 
well-floured board, flour a small rolling-pin (three-quarters of an. 
inch in diameter), press down so as nearly to divide each ball of 
dough in the center, place in baking-pans so as not to touch each 
other, grease the space made by the rolling pin with melted butter, 
let rise until light, and bake. These rolls are so small and bake so- 
quickly, that they have the delicious sweet taste of the wheat. 
Some grease the hands with butter while making the rolls. Bread 
dough, by adding the other ingredients, may be used for these rolls. 

Egg Rolls. 

Two tea-cups sweet milk, two eggs, a little salt, three and a half 
scant cups of sifted flour. Bake in hot gem-pans. — Mrs. L. S. W.y 
Jamestown^ N, Y. 

Every-Day Rolls. 

Take a piece of bread dough on baking day, when molded out 
the last time, about enough for a small loaf, spread out a little, add 
one egg, two table-spoons of sugar, and three-fourths cup of lard ; 
add a little flour and a small tea-spoon soda if the least bit sour *y 
mix well, let rise, mold into rolls or biscuits, set to rise again, and 
they will be ready for the oven in twenty or thirty minutes. 

French Rolls. 

Peel six medium-sized mealy potatoes, boil in two quarts of 
water, press and drain both potatoes and water through a colander;, 
wrhen cool enough so as not to scald, add flour to make a thick. 



BREAKFAST AND TEA CAKES. 



41 



batter, beat well, and when lukewarm, add one-half cup potato 
yeast. Make this sponge early in the morning, and when light turn 
into a bread pan, add a tea-spoon salt, half cup lard, and flour 
enough for a soft dough; mix up, and set in a warm, even tempera- 
ture; when risen, knead down and place again to rise, repeating 
this process five or six times ; cut in small pieces and mold on the 
bread-board in rolls about one inch thick by five long ; roll in 
melted butter or sweet lard, and place in well-greased baking pans 
(nine inches long by five wide and two and a half in depth, makes a 
convenient-sized pan, which holds fifteen of these rolls ; or, if twice 
the width, put in two rows); press the rolls closely together, so that 
they will only be about half an inch in width. Let rise a short 
time and bake twenty minutes in a hot oven ; if the top browns too 
rapidly, cover with paper. These rolls, if properly made, are very 
white, light and tender. 

Or, make rolls larger, and just before putting them in the oven^ 
cut deeply across each one with a sharp knife. This will make the 
cleft roll, so famous among French cooks.— -ifrs. J". TT. Robimm, 
Marysville, Ohio. 

Italian Rolls. 

A pound of bread dough, quarter-pound softened butter; work 
the butter well into the dough, and roll out about half an inch 
thick; cut into strips nearly an inch wide and seven or eight 
inches long ; sift over them fine corn meal, place them apart on a 
buttered pan, and when light bake in a quick oven. — In the Kitchen. 

Minnesota Rolls. 
Rub one-half table-spoon of lard into one quart of flour, make a 
well in the middle, put in one-half cup baker's yeast— or one cup 
of home-made — two tea-spoons sugar, one-half pint cold boiled milk ; 
do not stir, but let stand over night ; in the morning knead well,^ 
after dinner knead again, cut out, put in pans, and let rise until tea- 
time. Bake in a quick oven. — Mrs, Judge West, Bellefontaine, 

Paeker House Rolls. 
Rub one-half table-spoon of butter, and one-half table-spoon of 
lard into two quarts of sifted flour ; into a well in the middle pour 
one pint of cold boiled milk, and add one-half cup of yeast, one-half 



42 



BREAKFAST AND TEA CAKES. 



<3up of sugar, and a little salt. If wanted for tea, rub the flour and 
butter, and boil the milk, and cool it the night before ; add sugar, 
jeast and salt, and turn all into the flour, but do not stir. Let 
stand over night; in the morning stir up, knead, and let rise till 
near tea-time; mold and let rise again, and bake quicicly. To 
mold, cut with cake-cutter ; put a little melted butter on one-half 
and lap nearly over on the other half. Place them in the pan 
about three-quarters of an inch apart. — Mrs. V. G. Hush, Minne- 
apolis, Minn. 

Wedding Sandwich Rolls, 

Late in the evening make a rather stifl* potato sponge (see direc- 
tions under ' ' Bread-Making ") , and in the morning mix in as much 
£our as will make a soft dough, knead well, and place to rise; 
when sufiiciently light, knead down again, repeating the operation 
two or three times, remembering not to let the dough become sour 
by rising too light ; mold into common-sized loaves, place in your 
dripping-pan to rise, and bake very carefully, so as to secure the 
very slightest brown crust possible. On taking out of the oven, roll 
in a cloth tightly wrung out of water, with a large bread-blanket 
folded and wrapped around all. Let cool three or four hours, cut 
lengthwise of the loaf (not using the outside piece), first spreading 
lightly with good sweet butter, then cutting in slices not more than 
a (quarter of an inch, or just as thin as possible, using for this pur- 
pose a very thin, sharp knife ; lay on cold boiled ham cut in very 
thin shavings (no matter if in small pieces), roll up very slowly and 
carefully, and place where it will not unroll. Treat each sandwich 
in the same manner, always spreading the bread with butter before 
cutting. If by chance the bread is baked with too hard a crust, cut 
ofl* a thin shaving of the brownest part very smoothly before making 
into sandwiches. These sandwiches are truly delicious if properly 
made, but they require great care, experience, and good judgment. 
Served on an oblong platter, piled in pyramid style, row upon row, 
they will resemble nicely rolled dinner napkins. They must be 
made and served the same day. — Mrs. James W. JRohimon. 

Winter Eolls. 

Put three quarts of flour into a large crock or jar, scald one quart 
of buttermilk, add one cup of lard, and pour all over the flour, 



BREAKFAST AND TEA CAKES. 



43 



beating it up well ; then add one quart of cold water, stir and add 
one-half cup of potato yeast, or one cup of brewer's; beat in well 
and set in a warm place to rise over night. In the morning add 
salt and flour enough to make a moderately stiff dough ; set in a 
warm place to rise, and, when risen, knead down and set to rise 
again. This time knead down and place in a large stone crock or 
bowl, covered tightly with a tin pan to prevent the surface from 
drying, and set away in a cool place. When needed, turn out on a 
bread-board, cut off a piece as large as you wish to use, roll out to 
the thickness of ordinary soda biscuit, cut, and put in the oven to bake 
immediately. Set away the rest of the dough as before, and it will 
keep a week in winter, and is very convenient for hot breakfast-rolls. — 
Mrs. D. Bvxton. 

Vienna Rolls. 

Have ready in a bowl a table-spoon of butter or lard, made soft 
by warming a little, and stirring with a spoon. Add to one quart 
of unsifted flour two heaping tea-spoons baking powder ; mix and 
sift thoroughly together, and place in a bowl with butter. Take 
more or less sweet milk as may be necessary to form a dough of 
usual stiffness, according to the flour (about three-fourths of a pint), 
put into the milk half a tea-spoon of salt, and then stir it into the 
flour, etc., with a spoon, forming the dough, which turn out on a 
board and knead sufficiently to make smooth. Roll out half an inch 
thick, and cut with a large round cutter; fold each one over to form 
a half round, wettuig a little between the folds to make them stick 
together ; place on buttered pans, so as not to touch, wash over on 
top with milk to give them a gloss, and bake immediately in a hot 
oven about twenty minutes. It will do them no harm to stand half 
an hour before baking, if it is desired. 

Cracknells. 

To one pint of rich milk put two ounces butter and spoon of 
yeast. Make it warm, and mix enough fine flour to make a light 
dough ; roll thin and cut in long pieces, two inches broad. Prick 
well, and bake in slow oven. — Effie A. AdamSy Quiyiey, Ills. 

English Crumpets. 
One quart warm milk, one teaspoon salt, half cup yeast, flour 
enough for a not very stiff* batter. When light add half a cup 



44 



BREAKFAST AND TEA CAKES. 



melted butter, let stand twenty minutes, and bake in mu£5n rings 
or cups,— iLTrs. G, W. i£ 

Wheaten Gems. 

Mix one tea-spoon baking-powder and a little salt into one pint 
flour ; add to the beaten yolks of two eggs one tea-cup sweet milk 
or cream, a piece of butter (melted) half the size of an egg, the 
flour with baking-powder and salt mixed, and the well-beaten whites 
of the two eggs. Beat well, bake immediately in gem-pans in a hot 
oven, and take out and send to the table immediately.— -ifrs. Gib 
mUoeky New Castle, Ind, 

Wheat Muffins. 

Mix one pint milk, two eggs, three table-spoons yeast, and salt- 
spoon of salt, with flour enough to make a stiff* batter ; let rise four 
or five hours and bake in muffin-rings in a hot oven, for about ten 
minutes. This recipe may be made with Graham flour, by adding 
two table-spoons of molasses, and is excellent.— Jfrs. G. W. MarchanL 

Waffles. 

Take one quart of flour, a tea-spoon of salt, a table-spoon of 
melted butter, and milk enough to make a thick batter. Mix thor- 
oughly. Add two well-beaten eggs, and one measure each of acid 
and soda (or two heaping tea-spoons acid and one moderately heap- 
ing tea-spoon soda) of Horsford's Bread Preparation ; stir well, and 
bake at once in waffle-irons. 

Quick Waffles. 

Two pints sweet milk, one cup butter (melted), sifted flour to 
make a soft batter ; add the well-beaten yolks of six eggs, then the 
beaten whites, and lastly (just before baking) four tea-spoons baking- 
powder, beating very hard and fast for a few minutes. These are 
Very good with four or five eggs, but much better with more. — Mrs. 
G. Tf. Morey. 

Eatsed Waffles. 

One quart flour, one pint sweet, luke-warm milk, two eggs, 
■able-spoon melted butter, tea-spoon salt, half tea-cup good yeast. — 
Mrs, L. S. WiUiston^ Heidelburg, Germany. 



BREAKFAST AND TEA CAKES. 



45 



Rice Waffles. 

Boil half a pint of rice and let it get cold, mix with it one-fourth 
pound butter and a little salt. Sift in it one and a half pints flour, 
beat five eggs separately, stir the yolks together with one quart 
milk, add whites beaten to a stiff froth, beat hard, and bake at once 
in waffle-iron.— ifrs. & C. Lee, Baltimore, Md. 

Sweet Wafers. 
One pint flour, one tea-cup sugar, three eggs, one table-spoon 
butter, flavor with lemon, mix into a batter same as for cake, and 
bake in wafer-irons. 

French Crackers. 
One and a half pounds each of flour and sugar, three-fourths 
pound butter, whites of five eggs ; before cookmg wash over with 
egg and dip in sugar. 

Egg Crackers. 

Six eggs, twelve table-spoons sweet milk, six table-spoons butter, 
half tea-spoon soda; mold with flour half an hour, and roll thm.— 
Mrs, J, S. Eohinson, 

Corn Dodgers. 
To one quart corn meal add a little salt and a small table-spoon 
lard; scald with boiling water and beat hard for a few minutes; 
drop a large spoonful in a well-greased pan. The batter should be 
thick enough to just flatten on the bottom, leaving them quite high 
in the center. Bake in a hot oven. 

Corn Muffins. 

One quart sifted Indian meal, a heaping tea-spoon butter, one 
quart milk, a salt-spoon salt, a third cup yeast, a table-spoon of 
molasses; let it rise four or five hours, and bake in mufim-rings.— 
Mrs. G. W. MarcJiant, Buffalo, K F. 

Corn Eolls. 

One pint of corn meal, two table-spoons sugar, one tea-spoon 
salt, one pint boiling milk ; stir all together and let stand till cool. 
Add three eggs well beaten, and bake in gem-pans. —iirs. CapU J. P . 
Bea, MinneajooliSj Minn. 



46 



BREAKFAST AND TEA CAKES. 



CoEN Mush. 

Put four quarts fresh water in a kettle to boil, salt to suit the 
taste; when it begins to boil stir in one and one-half quarts meal, 
letting it sift through the fingers slowly to prevent kimps, adding 
it a little faster at the last, until as thick as can be conveniently 
stirred with one hand ; set in the oven in the kettle (or take out into 
a pan), bake an hour, and it will be thoroughly cooked. It takes 
corn meal so long to cook thoroughly that it is very difficult to boil 
it until done without burning. Excellent for frying when cold. 
Use a hard wood paddle, two feet long, with a blade two inches 
wide and seven inches long, to stir with. The thorough cooking and 
baking in oven afterwards, takes away all the raw taste that mush 
is apt to have, and adds much to its sweetness and delicious flavor.— 
Mrs. W, Woods. 

Fried Mush. 

A delicious breakfast relish is made by slicing cold mush thin and 
frying in a little hot lard. Or dip in beaten eggs salted to taste, 
then in bread or cracker crumbs, and drop in hot lard, like dough- 
nuts. — Miss A. W. S., Nashville, Tenn. 

Alabama Johnny-Cake. 
Cook a pint of rice till tender, add a table-spoon butter; when 
cold add two beaten eggs and one pint meal, and when mixed spread 
on an oaken board and bake by tipping the board up before the fire- 
place. When done on one side turn over. The dough should be 
spread half an inch thick. 

Johnny-Cake. 

Two-thirds tea-spoon soda, three table-spoons sugar, one tea-spoon 
cream of tartar, one egg, one cup sweet milk, six table-spoons Indian 
meal, three table-spoons flour, and a little salt. This makes a thin 
batter. 

Cold-Water Gems. 
With very cold or ice-water and Graham flour, and a little salt, 
make a rather stiff' batter; heat and grease the irons, and bake 
twenty minutes in a hot oven. — Mts. 0, M. Scott, 

Good Graham Gems. 
Three cups sour milk, one tea-spoon soda, one of salt, one table- 
spoon brown sugar, one of melted lard, one beaten egg ; to the egg 



BREAKFAST AND TEA CAKES. 



47 



add the milk, then the sugar and salt, then the Graham flour (with 
the soda mixed in), together with the lard; make a stiii* batter, so 
that it will drop, not pour, from the spoon. Have gem-pans very 
hot, grease, fill, and bake fifteen minutes in a hot oven. — Mrs. J. jBT. S, 

Mrs. Buxton's Graham Gems. 
Take one egg and beat well, add pinch of salt, one quart butter- 
milk or sour milk, and Graham fiour enough to make a stiff batter ; 
add one heaping tea-spoon soda and stir thoroughly with a spoon ; 
heat and grease gem-irons, and after dipping the spoon in cold 
water, drop a spoonful of batter in each pan, repeating until all 
are filled; bake in a quick oven half an hour. This measure will 
make a dozen. 

SwEET-MiLK Gems. 

Beat one egg well, add a pint new milk, a little salt, and Graham 
flour until it will drop off the spoon nicely ; heat and butter the 
gem-pans before dropping in the dough ; bake in a hot oven twenty 
minutes.— illrs. R. L. Partridge. 

Graham Muffins. 
Two cups of sour milk, two table-spoons brown sugar, a little saltj 
one tea-spoon soda, sufficient Graham flour to make moderately stiff. 
If not convenient to use sour milk, use sweet, adding cream of 
tartar. — Mrs, IL B. Sherman. 

Graham Mush. 

Sift meal slowly into boiling salted water, stirring briskly until 
it is as thick as can be stirred with one hand ; serve with milk or 
cream and sugar, or butter and syrup. It is much improved by 
removing from the kettle to a pan as soon as thoroughly mixed, 
and steaming for three or four hours. It may also be eaten cold,, 
or sliced and fried like corn mush. 

Oat-Meal Mush. 
To two quarts boiling water, well salted, add one and a half cups 
best oat meal (Irish, Scotch, Canadian or Akron are best) ; stir in 
meal by degrees, and after stirring up a few times to prevent its 
settling down in a mass at the bottom, leave it to cook three hours 
tuithout stirring. While stirring in meal put inner kettle directly on 



48 



BREAKFAST AND TEA CAKES. 



stove. (Cook in a custard-kettle with water in outer kettle). To 
€Ook for breakfast it may be put on over night, allowing it to boil 
an hour or two in the evening, but it is better when freshly cooked. 
Serve with cream and sugar. This is unsurpassed as a breakfast- 
dish, especially for growing children, who need bone and muscle- 
producing food. To be wholesome it must be well cooked, and not 
the pasty, half-cooked mass usually served at boarding-houses. 
There are a few persons with very delicate digestive powers, who 
should eat oat-meal only when thoroughly pearled, as the outer 
husks of the grain irritate the coatings of the stomach. In lieu 
of a custard-kettle the mush may be made in a pan or small tin 
bucket, and then placed in a steamer and steamed three hours. 

Steamed Oat-Meal. 

To one tea-cup oat-meal add one quart cold water, put in steamer 
over a kettle of cold water, and steam one hour after meal begins 
to cook. 

Cracked Wheat. 

Two quarts salted water to two cups best white winter wheat; 
boil two or three hours in a custard-kettle : Or, soak over night and 
boil at least three-fourths of an hour: Or, put boiling water in a pan 
or small tin bucket, set on stove, stir in wheat, set in steamer and 
steam four hours : Or, make a strong sack of thick muslin or drilling, 
moisten wheat with cold water, add a little salt, place in sack, leav- 
ing half the space for wheat to swell in. Fit a round sheet of tin, 
perforated with holes half an inch in diameter, to the inside of 
ordinary kettle, so that it will rest two or three inches from th^ 
bottom; lay sack on the tin, put in water enough to reach tin, and 
boil from three to four hours, supplying water as it evaporates. 
Serve with butter and syrup, or cream and sugar. When cold, slice 
and fry ; or warm with a little milk and salt in a pan greased with 
a little butter; or make in griddle-cakes with a batter of eggs, milk, 
and a little flour, and pinch of salt. 

Fine White Hominy or Grits. 

Take two cups to two quarts salted water, soak over night, and 
boil three quarters of an hour in a custard kettle; serve with milk 
and sugar, or when cold slice and fry. 



FRITTERS, 



49 



FRITTERS. 



Make fritters quickly and beat thoroughly. A good rule for 
them is two eggs, one half-pint milk, one tea-spoon salt, and two 
cups flour; have the lard in which to cook them nice and sweet and 
hot. Clarified fat boils at about five hundred degrees — more than 
double the heat of boiling water — and fat actually boiling will burn 
to a cinder any thing that is dropped into it. The proper cooking 
heat is three hundred and seventy-five degrees, and is indicated by 
a blue smoke arising from the surface of the fat. When this point 
is reached, the fat may be held at that degree of heat, and pre- 
vented from burning by dropping into it a peeled potato or a piece 
of hard bread, which furnishes something for the fat to act on. 
The heat may also be tested by dropping in a tea-spoon of the bat- 
ter ; if the temperature' is right it will quickly rise in a light ball 
with a splutter, and soon brown; take up carefully the moment they 
are done, with a wire spoon ; drain in a hot colander, and sift pow- 
dered sugar over them; serve hot. Pork fritters are made by 
dipping thin bits of breakfast-bacon or fat pork in the batter: fruit 
fritters by chopping any kind of fresh or canned fruit fine and mix- 
ing it with batter, or by dipping quarters or halves in batter. The 
fi-uit may be improved in flavor by sprinkling sugar and grated 
lemon peel over it, and allowing it to remain two or three hours, 
after which drain and dip as above. Batters for fritters should be 
made an hour before using, as the grains of flour swell by standing 
after being moistened, and thus become lighter. Add the whites 
of eggs just before frying. It is better not to use sugar in batter, 
as it tends to make it heavy. Sprinkle over them in the dish when 
just ready to serve. 

Apple Fritters. 

Three eggs beaten very light, one quart of milk ; make a thin 
batter; add a little salt and the grated rind of one lemon; pare, 
core and slice thin one quart nice tart apples; add, and drop in 
spoonfuls in boiling lard ; serve with sauce, — Ifrs. E, L. Fay, Wash 
ington Heights, New York, 
4 



50 



FRITTERS, 



Apple Fritters. 

Make a batter in proportion of one cup sweet milk to two cups? 
flour, a heaping tea-spoon baking powder, two eggs beaten sep- 
arately, one table-spoon sugar, and salt-spoon salt ; heat the milk 
a little more than milk- warm, add slowly to the beaten yolks and 
sugar, then add flour and whites of eggs; stir all together, and 
throw in thin slices of good sour apples, dipping the batter up 
over them; drop in boiling lard in large spoonfuls with piece of 
apple in each, and fry to a light brown. Serve with maple syrup 
or a nice syrup made of sugar. — Mrs, James Henderson, 

Clam Fritters. 
Take raw clams, chopped fine, and make a batter with juice, an 
equal quantity of sweet milk, four eggs to each pint of liquid, and 
flour sufficient to stiflen; fry like other fritters.— ifrs. JT. B, S, 

Corn Oysters. 

To one quart grated corn add three eggs and three or four grated 
crackers, beat well and season with pepper and salt; have ready in 
skillet butter and lard or beef-drippings in equal proportions, hot 
but not scorching ; drop in little cakes about the size of an oyster 
(for this purpose using a tea-spoon); when brown turn and fry 
on the other side, watching constantly for fear of burning. If the 
fat is just the right heat, the oysters will be light and delicious, 
but if not, heavy and "soggy." Serve hot and keep dish well cov- 
ered. It is better to beat whites of eggs to a stiff froth and add 
just before frying. — Mrs, F. (?. Hush, Minneapolis, Minn, 

Cream Fritters. 
One and a half pints flour, one pint milk, six well-beaten eggs, 
one-half nutmeg, two tea-spoons salt, one pint cream; stir the 
whole enough to mix the cream ; fry in small cakes. — Mrs, M, K. P, 

Lemon Fritters. 
One-fourth pound of eggs, one-half pound flour, one-fourth 
pound sugar (pulverized) ; beat the yolks well, add the flour and 
enough fresh milk to make a stiff batter (about a gill of milk); 
beat the whites stiff with the sugar, the juice of a lemon and some 
of the yellow peel grated off, or a spoon of extract of lemon. 



GBIDDLE'CAKES. 



51 



When ready to cook beat the whites well into the batter and pro- 
ceed to cook. Have plenty of good lard, heated slowly ; jnst as it 
begins to miokey after bubbling, drop in by spoonfuls enough fritters 
to fill the vessel without crowding. The cold batter will lower the 
temperature of the fat sufficiently to keep it at proper cooking 
heat. The frittei^ will begin to brown very quickly, and should be. 
turned with a wire spoon. If they begin to color dark brown 
check the heat immediately. If these directions are followed ac- 
curately, they may be lifted from the fat and laid upon a napkin or 
folded paper comparatively free from grease. Dust the fritters, 
well with sugar and nutmeg, if agreeable. For supper eat them so^, 
but for dinner some nice sauce should be served. Some persons 
substitute honey or maple syrup for sauce. Fritters bear a bad 
reputation, but when properly made, and eaten occasionally for a 
change, are quite as wholesome as many of the messes recommended 
as food for dyspeptics. 

Vanities. 

Beat two eggs, stir in a pinch of salt and a half tea-spoon 
rose-water, add sifted flour till just thick enough to roll out, cut 
with a cake-cutter, and fry quickly in hot lard. Sift powdered 
sugar on them while hot, and when cool put a tea-spoon of jelly in 
the center of each one. Nice for tea or dessert.— ilirs. D. G. Har- 
rington, Westfield, N, Y. 



GRIDDLE-OAKES. 



Griddle-cakes should be well beaten when first made, and are 
much lighter when the eggs are separated, whipping the yolks to 
a thick cream, and adding the whites beaten to a stiff froth just 
before baking. Some never stir buckwheat cakes after they have 
risen, but take them out carefully with a large spoon, placing 
the spoon when emptied in a saucer, and not back again into the 
batter. In baking griddle-cakes have the griddle clean, and, if the 
cakes stick, sprinkle on salt and rub with a coarse cloth before 
greasing. Some prefer griddles made of soap-stone, which need no 



52 



ORIDBLE-QAKES. 



greasing. They need to be very hot, but greasing spoils them. 
They are more costly and more easily broken than iron. Iron 
griddles, if properly cared for, need washing but seldom. Imme- 
diately after use they should be carefully wiped and put away out 
of the dust, never to be used for any other purpose. Never turn 
griddle-cakes the second time while baking, as it makes them 
heavy, and serve the same side up as when taken from griddles. 



Buckwheat Cakes. 
Buckwheat flour, when properly ground, , is perfectly /ree /rom 
grits. The grain should be run through the smutter with a strong 
blast before grinding, and the greatest care taken through the 
whole process. Adulteration with rye or corn cheapens the flour, 
but injures the quality. The pure buckwheat is best, and is un- 
surpassed for griddle-cakes. To make batter, warm one pint sweet 
milk and one pint water (one may be cold and the other boiling) ; 
put half this mixture in a stone crock, add five tea-cups buckwheat 
flour, beat well until smooth, add the rest of the milk and water, 
and last a tea-cup of yeast. Or, the same ingredients and propor- 
tions may be used except adding two table-spoons of molasses or 
sugar, and using one quart of water instead of one pint each of 
milk and water. — Miss S. A. MehJmig. 

HoBSFORD Buckwheat Cakes. 
Mix over night," with warm water, a little salt, and a table- 
spoon molasses, one pint buckwheat flour, to the usual consistency 
of griddle-cakes. When ready to bake for breakfast, add one meas- 
ure each of acid and soda (or two heaping tea-spoons acid and one 
moderately heaping tea-spoon soda) of Horsford's Bread Prepara- 
tion—thinning the batter if necessary — and bake immediately on a 
hot griddle. 

French Pancakes. 
Beat together till smooth six eggs and half a pound of flour, melt 
four ounces butter and add to the batter, with one ounce of sugar 
and half a pint of milk, and beat until smooth. Put a table-spoon 
at a time into a hot frying-pan slightly greased, spreading the batter 
evenly over the surface of the pan by tipping it about, fry to a light 



ORIDBLE-GAKES. 



53 



brown, spread with jelly, roll it up, dust it with powdered sugar, 
and serve hot. 

Batter Cakes. 

Make a batter of one quart each of flour and sour milk, three 
eggs beaten separately, a table-spoon of butter, and two level tea- 
spoons soda. Pulverize the soda very fine before measuring, then 
thoroughly mix with the flour. Add whites of eggs just before 
baking on the griddle. Sweet milk may be used (with ihe other 
ingredients in same quantity) with Horsford's Bread Preparation, 
one measure each of soda and acid, which must be thoroughly 
mixed with the flour. These may also be made without eggs. 

Bread Cakes. 

Take stale bread and soak over night in sour milk ; in the morn- 
ing rub through a colander, and to one quart add the yolks of two 
eggs, one tea-spoon salt, one tea-spoon soda, two table-spoons sugar, 
and flour enough to make a batter a little thicker than for buck- 
wheat cakes; add last the well-beaten whites of the eggs, and bake. 

Crumb Gribdle-Cakes. 

The night before using put some bread crumbs to soak in one 
/quart of sour milk; in the morning rub through a sieve, and add 
foui* well-beaten eggs, two tea-spoons soda dissolved in a little water, 
one table-spoon melted butter, and enough corn meal to make them 
the consistency of ordinary griddle-cakes. It is better to beat yolks 
and whites separately, stirring the whites lightly in just before 
baking. — Mrs.. W. E, Scohey, Kankakee, III. 

Corn Cakes. 

One pint corn meal, one of sour milk or buttermilk, one egg, one 
tea-spoon soda, one of salt. A table-spoon of flour or corn starch 
may be used in place of the egg ; bake on a griddle. 

Flanistel Cakes. 

Make hot a pint of sweet milk, and into it put two heaping table- 
spoons butter, let melt, then add a pint of cold milk, the well- 
beaten yolks of four eggs — placing the whites in a cold place — a 
tea-spoon of salt, four table-spoons potato yeast, and sufiicient flour 
to make a stiff* batter ; set in a warm place to rise, let stand three 



54 



YEAST, 



hours or over night ; before baking add the beaten whites ; fry like 
any other griddle-cakes. Be sure to make batter just stiff enough, 
for flour must not be added in the morning unless it is allowed to 
rise again. 

Graham Griddle-Cakes. 

.One quart Graham flour, one tea-spoon baking powder, thtee 
eggs, and milk or water enough to make thin batter. 

Indian Pancakes. 

One pint Indian meal, one tea-spoon salt, small tea-spoon soda; 
pour on boiling water until a little thinner than mush ; let stand 
until cool, add the yolks of four eggs, half a cup of flour in which 
is mixed two tea-spoons cream tartar ; stir in as much sweet milk or 
water as will make the batter suitable to bake; beat the whites 
well, and add just before baking. — Mrs. IF. W. Woods. 

Rice Griddle-Cakes. 

Boil half a cup rice; when cold mix one quart sweet milk, the 
yolks of four eggs, and flour sufiicient to make a stiff batter; beat 
the whites to a froth, stir in one tea-spoon soda, and two of cream 
tartar; add a little salt, and lastly the whites of eggs; bake on a 
griddle. A nice way to serve is to spread them while hot with but- 
ter, and almost any kind of preserves or jelly ; roll them up neatly, 
cut off the ends, sprinkle them with sugar, and serve immediately. 
— Mrs. Walter 3£ltchdl, Gcdlipolis. 



YEAST, 



The best is potato yeast, because bread made with it is moister, 
and there is no danger of injuring the flavor of the bread by an 
excess of yeast. Dry yeast should be made in May or June for 
summer use, and in October for winter use. In hot and damp 
weather, dry yeast sometimes loses its vitality ; however, many use 
it on account of its convenience, since there is no danger of ita 
souring in summer or freezing in winter. Soft hop or potato yeast 



YEAST. 



55 



will keep in a cool place one or two weeks in warm weatker, and in 
cold weather five or six weeks, care being taken that it does not 
freeze. Never add soda to yeast ; if it becomes sonr it will do to 
start fresh yeast, but will never make good bread. Make yeast in 
a bright tin pan, kept for this purpose alone. When it is risen 
sufficiently, a thick white scum rises to the top. Keep in a stone 
jar with a close-fitting cover, or in a jug, on the cellar bottom, or 
in ice-chest, or in some other cool place. Always shake the jug 
before taking out yeast for use. Leave cork loose for first tw^elve 
hours. Extreme heat or freezing kills the plant, which grows while 
fermentation goes on. The jar or jug, when emptied, should be 
washed first in cold water, then in soap and water, and afterward 
in hot water, which may be allowed to stand a half hour, when 
pour out. Let jar cool, and it is ready for use. The cork or cover 
needs the same careful attention. Many times the yeast is spoiled 
by want of care and neatness in washing the yeast jar. Keep hops 
in a paper sack in a dry, cool place. One pint of potato yeast, 
one tea-cup of hop yeast, a piece of compressed yeast size of a 
walnut, and one yeast cake, or two-thirds of a tea-cup of yeast 
crumbs, are equal in strength. 

Dry Yeast. 

Boil two large potatoes and a handful of hops (the latter in a 
bag) in three pints water; when done, take out potatoes, mash well, 
add one pint flour, and pour boiling hot water over all ; beat well 
together, adding one table-spoon salt, one of ginger, and one-half 
cup sugar ; when luke-warm add one cup good yeast and let stand 
two days (or only one day, if very warm weather), stirring down 
frequently ; add good white corn meal until thick enough to make 
into cakes about half an inch in thickness; place to dry in the 
shade (never expose to the sun or to stove heat) where the air will 
pass freely, so as to dry them as soon as possible, as the fermentation 
goes on as long as there is any moisture ; turn the cakes frequently, 
breaking them up somewhat, or even crumbling, so they will dry 
out evenly and quickly ; when thoroughly dried put in a paper sack, 
and keep in a dry place. A small cake will make a sponge sufli- 
ci-ent to bake five or six ordinary loaves. — Mrs. E. T, Carson. 



56 



YEAST. 



Farmees' Yeast. 
A yeast which is especially good for the use of farmers, an(S' 
others who use a great deal of bread and bake frequently, is made 
as follows ; Take a handful of unpressed or two ounces of pressed^ 
hops (those showing the pollen dust are best), put them in one quart 
of water, with four ordinary potatoes, and boil till the potatoes are 
well cooked ; mash all together, and strain through a linen strainer,, 
add flour enough to make a thick batter; a tea-spoon salt, a table- 
spoon pulverized ginger and half a cup sugar ; set it back on the 
fire and let it come to a boil, stirring constantly, and set by to cool ; 
when only milk warm add a cup of old yeast, or two cakes grocers' 
dry hop yeast, or half a cup bakers'. This will be light in two or 
three hours. The yeast may be made perpetual, by saving a cup 
when started, but it must be kept from freezing in winter and in a 
cool place in summer. This is a good mode, and acceptable to all 
v/ho prefer yeast bread.— ifrs. S. Young, Minneapolis, Minn. 

Hop Yeast. 

Place a handful of hops in two quarts of cold water, boil slowly 
for a half hour, strain boiling hot on one pint flour and one table- 
spoon salt (gradually at first in order to mix smoothly) ; when luke- 
warm add a half pint of yeast, and set in a warm place to rise. 
When light, cover and keep in a cool place.— ifrs. M, J. Tfoocfe. 

Potato Yeast without Hops. 

Four good-sized potatoes peeled, boiled and mashed, four table- 
spoons white sugar, one of ginger, one of salt, two cups flour; pour 
over this a pint of boiling water, and beat till all the lumps disap- 
pear. After it has cooled, add to it one cup good yeast, and set 
away to rise; when risen put in glass or stone jar, cover and set 
away in a cool place. ^ — Mrs, George H. Rust, Mintieapolis, Minn. 

Potato Yeast. 
Boil one cup hops in a sack in two quarts water for fifteen minutes 
remove sack with hops, add immediately after grating (to prevent 
their darkening) five good-sized Irish potatoes, peeled and grated 
raw, one cup white sugar, one table-spoon salt, and one of ginger 
stir occasionallv and cook from five to ten minutes, and it will boil 



YEAST. 



5T 



up thick like starch ; turn into a jar, and when just tepid in sum- 
mer, or quite warm in winter, add one-half pint good yeast (always 
save some to start with) ; set jar in a large tin pan, and as often as 
it rises stir down until fermentation ceases, when it will be quite; 
thin. Cover closely, and set away in a cool place, and it will keep' 
two weeks. When yeast smells sour but does not taste sour it m 
still good ; if it has no smell it is dead. One cup will make six 
good-sized loaves. — Mrs. D. Buxton. 

Potato Yeast. 

Take as many hops as can be grasped in the hand twice, put one- 
half gallon water over them in a new coffee-pot kept for that pur- 
pose, boil slowly for one hour. Do not tie them in a cloth to boilj, 
as that keeps the pollen (an important rising property) out of the 
yeast. Pare and grate half a dozen large potatoes into a two gallon 
stone crock, add a half cup sugar, table-spoon each of salt and 
ginger, pour over this a half gallon of the boiHng hop- water, stir- 
ring all the time. When milk-warm, add one cup of good lively 
yeast, set in a warm place until it rises, and remove to the cellar or 
some other cool place. The boiling hop-water must be added to po- 
tatoes immediately or they will darken, and darken the yeast. A 
good way to prevent the potatoes from darkening is to grate thetn 
into a pan half filled with cold water. As grated the potatoes sink 
to the bottom; when done grating, pour off the water and add the 
boiling hop-water. This is an excellent recipe, and the method 
given for boiling hops is especially recommended. 

Yeast. 

Pare and boil four ordinary-sized potatoes, boiling at the same^ 
time in a separate vessel a good handful of hops. When the pota- 
toes are done, mash fine and add, after straining, the water in which 
the hops were boiled; put into this one cup white sugar and one^ 
half cup salt, and add sufficient water to make one gallon ; when 
cold add one cup of good yeast, let stand in a warm place for a few 
hours until it will sing" on being stirred, when it is ready for use. 
Keep covered in a cellar or cool place. — Mrs. 0. M. 



58 



YEAST, 



Yeast without Yeast. 

This requires no yeast to raise it, and has been called the **be8t 
yeast in the world." Monday morning, boil one pint hops in two 
gallons water for half an hour, strain into a crock and let the liquid 
become luke-warm, add two even tea-spoons salt and half a pint 
best brown sugar ; mix half a pint flour smooth with some of the 
liquor, and stir all well together. On Wednesday, add three pounds 
potatoes boiled and mashed, stir well and let stand till Thursday, 
then strain and put in stone jugs, but for the first day or two leave 
the corks quite loose. Stir the yeast occasionally while making, 
and keep near the fire. It should be made two weeks before using, 
and will keep any length of time, improving with age. Keep it in 
a cool place, and shake the jug before pouring from it, but with 
the cork out, holding the palm of the hand over the mouth to pre- 
vent the escape of the yeast. 



CAKE-MAKING-. 



«*Let all things be done decently and in order," and the first to 
put in order when you are going to bake is yourself. Secure the 
hair in a net or other covering, to prevent any from falHng, and 
brush the shoulders and back to be sure none are lodged there that 
might blow off; make the hands and finger nails clean, roll the 
sleeves up above the elbows, and put on a large, clean apron. Clean 
the kitchen table of utensils and every thing not needed, and pro- 
vide every thing that will be needed until the cake is baked, not 
forgetting even the broom-splints previously picked ofi* the new 
broom and laid away carefully in a little box. (A knitting-needle 
may be kept for testing cake instead of splints.) If it is warm 
weather, place the eggs in cold water, and let stand a few minutes, 
as they will then make finer froth ; and be sure they are fresh, as 
they will not make a stiff froth from any amount of beating if old. 
The cake-tins should be prepared before the cake, when baking 
powder is used, as it effervesces but once, and there should be no ' 
delay in baking, as the mixture should be made firm by the heat, 
while the effervescing process is going on. Grease the pans with 
fresh lard, which is much better than butter ; line the bottom with 
paper, using six or eight thicknesses if the cake is large, and greas- 
ing the top one well. (In some ovens, however, fewer thicknesses 
of paper would be needed on the bottom, and in some the sides 
also should be lined with one or two thicknesses. ) Sift flour and sugar 
(if not pulverized), and measure or weigh. Firkin or very salt but- 

(59) 



60 



CAKE-MAKING, 



ter should be cut in bits and washed to freshen a little; if very 
hard, warm carefully, but in no case allow any of it to melt. Good 
butter must be used, as the heat develops any latent bad qualities. 
Use pulverized sugar for all delicate cakes; for rich cakes coffee- 
crushed, powdered and sifted ; for dark cakes, the best brown 
sugars are best; for jelly-cakes, light fruit-cakes, etc., granulated 
and coffee ''A" are best and most economical. Beat the yolks of 
eggs thoroughly, and strain ; set the whites away in a cool place 
until the cake is ready for them, then beat them vigorously in a cool 
room, till they will remain in the dish when turned upside down. 
Sift a part of the measured flour with the baking-powder or soda 
and cream tartar through a hand-sieve (which should be among the 
utensils of every housekeeper), and mix thoroughly with the rest of 
the flour. In using new flour for either bread or cake-making, it 
can be '^ripened'^ for use by placing the quantity intended for bak- 
ing in the hot sun for a few hours, or before the kitchen fire. In 
using milk, note this: that sour milk makes a spongy, light cake ; 
sweet milk, one that cuts like pound cake; remembering that with 
sour milk soda alone is used, while with sweet milk baking powder 
or soda and cream tartar are to be added. 

Having thus gathered the material,' cut butter (in cold weather) 
into small pieces, and warm, mt melt; beat the butter and sugar to 
a cream, add the milk in small quantities (never use fresh and stale 
milk in same cake), next the yolks of eggs, then a part of the flour,, 
then a part of the whites, and so on until the whole is used ; lastly, 
add the flavoring. Many good cake-makers first stir the milk and 
flavoring into the creamed butter and sugar, then the yolks, next 
the whites, and lastly the flour, first taking about two-thirds of it 
and thoroughly mixing the baking powder through it; the re- 
mainder of the flour is then left to be used at discretion. A little 
more or less flour may be needed, according to the climate, or to 
the kind of flour used, as the New Process" flour requires one- 
eighth less than other brands. There is great knack" in beating 
cake; don't stir, but heat thoroughly, bringing the batter up from the 
bottom of the dish at every stroke; in this way the air is driven into 
the cells of the batter, instead of out of them— but the cells will be 
finer if beaten more slowly at the last, remembering that the motion 



CAKE-MAKING, 



61 



should always be upward. In winter it is easier to beat with the 
hand, but in summer a wooden spoon is better. An iron spoon 
turns the mixture dark. Never beat a cake in tin, but use earthen 
or stoneware. Unskillful mixing, too rapid or unequal baking, or a 
sudden decrease in heat before it is quite done, will cause streaks in 
the cake. Always bake a small cake first, fill a patty pan, or cover 
to a baking-powder can, one-third full, and bake ; then add more 
or less flour as required. If the cake is hard and solid, it needs a 
few tea-spoons of milk; if more flour is needed it will fall in the 
middle and be spongy and crumbly. Powdered sugar may be 
sifted on the top of any cake while it is a little warm; if it dis- 
solves add more when it is cold, keep some for that purpose in a 
spice box with a perforated top. The white portion of orange or 
lemon-peel should never be used ; grate only the yellow. When 
recipes call for soda and cream of tartar, baking powder may be 
used by taking the same quantity as required of both, or Horsford's 
Bread Preparation will be found excellent. ^^MiUr' always means 
sweet milk. *'A cup" always means a tea cup, not a cofiee cup. 
Sour milk may always be used instead of sweet, by using soda only. 
The proportions of rising-powder to one quart of flour are three tea- 
spoons baking-powder, or one tea-spoon soda and two tea-spoons 
cream tartar, or one measure each of Horsford's Bread PreparatioUj 
or one pint sour milk and one level tea-spoon soda. 

Fkuit Cake. 

Most ladies think fruit cake quite incomplete without wine or 
brandy, but it can be made equally good on strictly temperance 
principles, by substituting one-third of a cup of molasses for a wine- 
glass of brandy. The objection to the use of liquor in sauces does 
not, however, hold good against that used in cake-making, as the 
alcohol is converted to vapor by the heat and passes ofi* with the 
other gases. There are many, however, who object to the use of 
liquors in any way, and to keeping them in the house, and such 
will find the above an excellent and cheap substitute. 

Eaisins should never be mashed, as it is difiicult to diy out the 
moisture absorbed by them, and every particle of moisture retained 
tends to make the cake heavy. To remove the stems and ex- 
traneous matter, place the raisins in a coarse towel and rub them in 



62 



GAKE-MAKINQ. 



this until as clean as rubbing will make them; then pick over care- 
fully, remove any stems or other defects which may be left. The 
raisins should be prepared before the cake, and added the last thing 
before putting in the oven, as, being heavy, they sink to the bottom 
if allowed to stand. To seed, clip with the scissors, or cut with a 
sharp knife. Do not chop too fine ; if for light fruit cake, seeding 
is all that is necessary. Slice the citron thin, and do not have the 
pieces too large, or they will cause the cake to break apart in cut- 
ting. Currants should be kept prepared for use as follows : Wash 
in warm water, rubbing well, pour off water, and repeat until the 
water is clear; drain them in a sieve, spread on a cloth and rub 
dry; pick out bad ones, dry carefully in a cool oven or in the 
**heater" (or in the sun and wind, with a thin gauze over them to 
keep off flies, insects and dust), and set away for use. When the 
fruit is all mixed, cream the butter and sugar — this is very im- 
portant in all cakes — add the spices, molasses, or liquors, then the 
milk (if any used), next the eggs well beaten, adding whites with 
the flour, as previously directed. Always beat whites and yolks 
separately if many eggs are used, but if only a few, it is just as well 
to beat both together. Next add the flour (which in making black 
fruit cake may be browned), prepared with baking powder or soda 
and cream tartar, then the flavoring (lemon and vanilla, in equal 
parts, make the best flavoring), and lastly the fruit dredged with a 
very little flour. Some prefer to mix the fruit with all the flour. 
When but little fruit is used it may be dropped into the dough after 
it is in the pan, and pushed just beneath the surface, which pre- 
vents it from settling to the bottom. The batter for fruit cake 
should be quite stiff. 

In making very large cakes that require three or four hours to 
bake, an excellent way for lining the pan is the following : Fit three 
papers carefully, grease thoroughly, make a paste of equal parts 
Graham and fine flour, wet with water just stiff enough to spread 
easily with a spoon, place the first paper in the pan with the greased 
side down, and spread the paste evenly over the paper about as 
thick as pie-crust. In covering the sides of the pan, use a little 
paste to stick a portion of the paper to the top of the pan to keep it 
from slipping out of place, press the second paper carefully into its 



CAKE-MAKING. 



place, with the greased side up, and next put in the third paper as 
you would into any baking-pan, and pour in the cake. Earthen 
pans are used by some, as they do not heat so quickly and are less 
liable to burn the cake. 

When using a milk-pan or pans, without stems, a glass bottle filled 
with shot to give it weight, and greased, may be placed in the center 
of the pan, or a stem may be made of paste-board, rolled up, but 
the latter is more troublesome to keep in place. The cake is apt to 
burn around the edges before it is done unless there is a tube in the 
center. 

All except layer cakes should be covered with a paper cap, (or a 
sheet of brown paper, which the careful housewife will save from 
her grocers' packages), when first put into the oven. Take a square 
of brown paper large enough to cover well the cake pan, cut off the 
corners, and lay a plait on four sides, fastening each with a pin so 
as to fit nicely over the pan. This will throw it up in the center ^ 
so that the cover will not touch the cake. Save the cap, as it can be 
used several times. 

Before commencing, clean out the stove, take off* the lids and brush 
inside, rake it out underneath, get all the ashes out of the corners^ 
have the best of fuel at hand. Don't build a haUng fire before it 
is needed, have it only moderate, and add the extra fuel in time to 
get it nicely burning, 

THE OVEN. 

Too much care can not be given to the preparation of the oven, 
which is oftener too hot than too cool ; however, an oven too cold 
at first will ruin any cake. Cake should rise and begin to bake 
before browning much, large cakes requiring a good, steady, solid 
heat, about such as for baking bread ; layer cakes, a brisk hot fire, 
as they must be baked quickly. A good plan is to fill the stove 
with hard wood (ash is the best for baking), let it burn until there 
is a good body of heat, and then turn damper so as to throw the 
heat to the bottom of oven for fully ten minutes before the cake is 
put in. In this way a steady heat to start with is secured. Gener- 
ally it is better to close the hearth when the cake is put in, as this 
stops the draft and makes a more regular heat. Keep adding wood 
in small quantities, for if the heat becomes slack the cake will be 



64 



CAKE-MAKING, 



heavy. Great care must be taken, for some stoves need to have the 
•dampers changed every now and then, but as a rule more heat is 
needed at the bottom of the oven than at the top. Many test their 
ovens in this way : if the hand can be held in from twenty to thirty- 
five seconds (or while counting twenty or thirty-five), it is a " quick" 
oven, from thirty-five to forty-five seconds is moderate," and from 
forty-five to sixty seconds is slow." Sixty seconds is a good oven 
to begin with for large fruit cakes. All systematic housekeepers 
will hail the day when some enterprising Yankee or Buckeye girl 
shall invent a stove or range with a thermometer attached to the 
oven, so that the heat may be regulated accurately and intelHgently. 
If necessary to move the cake while baking, do it very gently. Do 
not open the oven door until the cake has had time to form, and 
do not open it oftener than necessary, then be careful to close it 
quickly and gently, so as not to jar the cake. Be sure the outside 
door of the kitchen is closed so that no cold air may strike it. If 
the oven bakes too hard on the bottom, place the grate under the 
pan ; if too hot on top, set a pie-pan of water on the top grate. If 
one side bakes faster than the other, turn very gently. Be careful 
not to remove from the oven until done ; test thoroughly before re- 
moving, for if the cooler air strikes it before it is done, it is certain 
to Ml. Allow about thirty minutes for each inch of thickness in 
a quick oven, and more time in a slow one. Test with a broom- 
splint or knitting-needle, and if the dough does not adhere, it is 
done. Settling away from the pan a Httle, and stopping its sing- 
ing," are other indications that the cake is ready to leave the oven. 
When removed, set the cake, while in the pan, on an inverted sieve 
to cool ;■ this secures a free circulation of air all round it, and cools 
it evenly. It should remain in the pan at least fifteen minutes after 
taking from the oven, and it is better to leave the ''cap" on until 
the cake is carefully removed from the pan and set away, always 
right side up. A tin chest or stone jar is best to keep it in. Cofiee 
cake should be put away before it is cold, and so closely wrapped 
in a large napkin that the aroma will not be lost. 

Sponge and White Cakes. 
The good quality of all delicate cake, and especially of sponge- 
cake, depends very much upon its being made with fresh eggs. It can 



CAKE-MAKING. 



65 



mever be perfect unless pulverized sugar is used. It must be quickly 
put together, beaten with rapidity, and baked in a rather quick 
oven. It is made sticky "and less light by being stirred long. 
There is no other cake so dependent upon care and good judgment 
in baking as sponge-cake. In making white cake, if not convenient 
to use the. yolks that are left, they will keep for several days if 
thoroughly beaten and set in a cool place. The whites of eggs, when 
not used, must not be beaten, but will keep for several days if set in 
a cool place. The white or yolk of a medium-sized egg weighs one 
ounce, a fact that it is convenient to know, as sometimes the white 
or yolk of one or more eggs is wanted from several that have been 
put away together. Whenever it is necessary to cut a cake while 
warm, do it with a warm knife. To prepare cocoa-nut, cut a hole 
■through the meat at one of the holes in the end, draw off the milk, 
pound the nut well on all sides to loosen the meat, crack, take out 
.meat, and set the pieces in the heater or in a cool, open oven over 
night, or for a few hours, to dry, then grate ; if all is not used, 
sprinkle with sugar (after grating) and spread out in a cool, dry 
place, and it will keep for weeks. 

Angel's Food. 

Use the whites of eleven eggs, one and a half tumbler of sifted 
granulated sugar, one tumbler sifted flour, one tea-spoon of vanilla, 
one tea-spoon of cream tartar; sift the flour four times, then add 
the cream tartar and sift again — but measure it before putting in the 
cream of tartar — sift the sugar and measure it; beat the eggs to a 
stiff froth on a large platter; on the same platter add the sugar 
lightly, then the flour very gently, then the vanilla; do not stop 
beating until you put it in the pan to bake. Bake forty minutes 
in a moderate oven, try with a straw and if too soft let it remain a 
few minutes longer. Do not open the oven until the cake has been 
in fifteen minutes. Turn the pan upside down to cool, and when 
cold, take out by loosening around the sides with a knife, and then 
ice ; use a pan that has never been greased. The tumbler for meas- 
uring must hold two and one-fourth gills. The pans have feet. 

Icing. — Whites of two eggs, two tea-cups granulated sugar; 

boil the sugar until clear with just enough water to moisten it. 

Having beaten the eggs to a stiff froth, pour boiling syrup very 
5 



66 



CAKE-MAKING. 



slowly over them. Dissolve one-half tea-spoon of citric acid in m 
small table-spoon of water, and put enough in to make a pleasant 
tart — add a little essence of lemon. 

Buckeye Cake. 
One cup butter, two of white sugar, four of sifted flour, five eggs 
beaten separately, one cup sour milk, tea-spoon soda, pound seeded 
raisins chopped a little; beat the butter and sugar to a cream, add 
the yolks and milk, and stir in the flour with soda well mixed 
through it; then add the white of the eggs beaten to a stifl* froth, 
and lastly the raisins dredged with a little flour ; bake one and one- 
half hours. Use coflee-cups to measure. This makes a cake for a 
six quart pan.— ifrs. W. W. Woods. 

Almond, Hickory-nut or Cocoa-nut Cake. 
One pound flour, half tea-spoon salt, fourth pound butter, pound 
of sugar, tea-cup sour cream, four eggs, lemon flavor to taste, and 
a tea-spoon soda dissolved in two tea-spoons hot water ; mix all 
thoroughly, grate in the white part of a cocoa-nut, or stir in a pint 
of chopped hickory-nuts, or a pint of blanched almonds pounded. 
— Mrs. J". TT. Gfuhhs, Eichmond, Ind. 

Black Cake. 

One pound powdered white sugar, three-quarters pound butter, 
pound sifted flour (brown or not as preferred), twelve eggs beaten 
separately, two pounds raisins stoned and part of them chopped, 
two of currants carefully cleaned, half pound citron cut in strips, 
quarter ounce each of cinnamon, nutmeg and cloves mixed, wine- 
glass wine and one of brandy ; rub butter and sugar together, add 
yolks of eggs, part of flour, the spice, and whites of eggs well 
beaten; then add remainder of flour, and wine and brandy; mix 
all thoroughly together ; cover bottom and sides of a four-quart 
milk-pan with buttered white paper, put in a layer of the mixture, 
then a layer of the fruit (first dredging the fruit with flour), until 
pan is filled up three or fotir inches. A small cup of Orleans mo- 
lasses makes the cake blacker and more moist, but for this it is not 
necessary to add more flour. Bake three and one-half or four 
hours in a slow oven. This is excellent.— ilfrs. M. M. Mumell, Del- 
aware, 



CAKE-MAKISG, 



67 



Black Cake. 

One pound flour, one of currants, one of raisins, one of sugar, 
half pound citron, half pound chopped figs, three-fourths pound 
butter, ten eggs leaving out two whites, tea-cup molasses, one of 
sour cream and soda, one gill brandy or good whisky, half cup cin- 
namon, two table-spoons allspice and cloves, four table-spoons jam. 
— Mrs, Gov. Kirkivood, loiva. 

Black Cake. 

Two cups l)rown sugar, one and one-half cups of butter, six eggs 
beaten separately, three cups flour (brown the flour), two table- 
spoons molasses, one of cinnamon, one tea-spoon mace, one of cloves, 
two cups sweet milk, two pounds raisins, two of currants, a half 
pound citron, one tea-spoon soda, two of cream tartar. Bake" three 
hours. — Mrs. A. B. Morey. 

Bread Cake. 

Three coffee-cups yeast dough, light enough to bake for bread, 
two and two-thirds cups sugar, one cup butter, three eggs, one 
nutmeg ; put all together, and work with the hands until smooth 
as pound-cake. It is very important that all should be mixed very 
thoroughly with the light dough. Add raisins and as much fruit 
as desired, and let rise half an hour in the pans in w^hich you bake. 
The oven should be about right for bread. This is easily made, 
and is quite as nice as common loaf-cake. —ilfrs. Ghas. Fidlingtm. 

Bread Cake. 

Two cups light bread dough, one and one-half cups sugar, half 
cup butter, three table-spoons sour milk in which has been dis- 
solved half tea-spoon soda, half a grated nutmeg, tea-spoon cinna- 
mon, cup raisins chopped a little and floured ; stir all w^ell together, 
adding fruit lastly; let rise half an hour and bake in a moderate 
oven. — Mrs. Hartle, Massillon. 

Bride's Cake. 

Whites of twelve eggs, three cups sugar, small cup butter, a cup 
sweet milk, four small cups flour, half cup corn starch, two tea- 
spoons baking pow^der, lemon to taste. Adding a cup citron sliced 



68 



CAKE-3IAKINCr. 



thin and dusted with flour, makes a beautiful citron cake.— 3fr.?. 
Harvey Clarh, Piqua. 

Whipped-Cream Cake. 

One cup sugar, two eggs, two table-spoons softened butter and 
four of milk ; ^beat all well together ; add a cup of' flour in which 
has been mixed tea-spoon cream tartar and half tea-spoon soda. 
Bcike in rather small square dripping-pan. When cake is cool have 
ready a half pint sweet cream whipped to a stifl' froth, sweeten and 
flavor to taste, spread over cake and serve while fresh. The cream 
will froth easier to be made cold by setting on ice before whipping. 
— Mrs. Wm. Brown, MassiUon. 

Corn-Starch Cake. 

Two coffee-cups pulverized sugar, three-fourths cup butter, cup 
corn starch dissolved in a cup of sweet milk, two cups flour, whites 
of seven eggs, two tea-spoons cream tartar, tea-spoon soda mixed 
thoroughly with the flour ; cream butter and sugar, add starch and 
milk, then add the whites and flour gradually until all is used. 
Flavor with lemon or rose.— 3frs. P. Anderson, 

Coffee Cake. 

Two cups brown sugar, one of butter, one of molasses, one of 
strong coffee as prepared for the table, four eggs, one tea-spoon 
salerltus, two of cinnamon, two of cloves, one of grated nutmeg, 
pound raisins, one of currants, four cups flour.— Wm. Skinner, 
Battle Greek, Mich. 

Coffee Cake. 

One cup brown sugar, cup molasses, half cup butter, cup strong 
coffee, one egg or yolks of two, four even cups flour, heaping tea- 
spoon soda i^the flour, table-spoon cinnamon, tea-spoon cloves, two 
pounds raisins, fourth pound citron. Soften the butter, beat with 
the sugar, add the egg, spices, molasses, and coffee, then the flour, 
and lastly the fruit dredged with a little flour. Bake one hour in 
moderate oven, or make in two small loaves which will bake in a 
short time. This may be made without the egg.— Mrs. D. Buxton. 



CAKE-MA KINO, 



69 



Cocoa-nut Cake. 

One cup butter, three of sugar, one of sweet milk, four and a 
half of flour, four eggs with whites beaten to a stiff froth, a tea- 
spoon soda, two of cream tartar, one grated cocoa-nut. — Mrs. J. 
Holland, New Castle, Lid, 

Caramel Cake. 

One cup butter, two of sugar, a scant cup milk, one and a half 
cups flour, cup corn starch, whites of seven eggs, three tea-spoons 
baking powder in the flour ; bake in a long pan. Take half pound 
brown sugar, scant quarter pound chocolate, half cup milk, butter 
size of an egg, two tea-spoons vanilla ; mix thoroughly and cook as 
syrup until stiff enough to spread ; spread on cake and set in the 
oven to dry. —if rs. George Bever. 

CiNCiKNATi Cake. 

Pour over one pound fat salt pork, chopped fine and free from 
lean and rind, one pint 'boiling w^ater, let stand until nearly cold ; 
add two cups brov;n sugar, one of molasses, one table-spoon each 
of cloves and nutmeg, and two of cinnamon, two pounds raisins, 
fourth pound citron, half glass brandy, three tea-spoons of baking 
powder, and seven cups of sifted flour. Bake slow^ly two and a 
half hours. This is excellent, and requires neither butter or eggs. 
— Mrs. G. E. Kinney. 

Chocolate Cake. 

One cup butter, three of brown sugar, one of sweet milk, four of 
flour, yolks of seven eggs, nine table-spoons grated Baker's choco- 
late, three tea-spoons baking powder. This may be baked as a 
layer cake, making a white cake of the whites of the eggs, baking 
in layers, and putting them together with frosting, alternating the 
lavers. — Mrs. Frank Woods Bohhison, Kenton. 

Delicate Cake. 

Three cups flour, two of sugar, three-fourths cup sweet milk, 
whites of six eggs, half cup butter, tea-spoon cream tartar, half 
tea-spoon of soda. Flavor with lemon. Good and easily made. — 
Mi.^s Mary E. Miller. 



70 



CAKE-MAKING. 



Everlasting Cake. 
Beat together the yolks of six eggs aud three-fourths of a pint 
white sugar, add one and a half pints blanched and shelled almonds, 
half pound sliced citron well floured, and the whipped whites with 
one and a hiilf pints sifted flour ; pour one and a half inches thick 
in well-greased dripping pans, bake in a quick oven, and, when done, 
cut slices one inch thick across the cake, turn each slice over on its 
side, return to oven and bake a short time. When cold place in a 
tin box. These will keep a year and a half or more, and are nice 
to have in store. — Mrs. J. S. Williams, BrooUijn. 

Egoless Cake. 

One and a half tea-cups sugar, one of sour milk, three (level) of 
sifted flour, half cup butter, tea-spoon soda, half tea-spoon cinna- 
mon, half tea-spoon grated nutmeg, tea-cup raisins chopped and 
well floured. — Miss Louise Skinner. 

Old Hartford Election Cake. 

Five pounds sifted flour, two of butter, two of sugar, thre gills 
distillery yeast or twice the quantity of home brewed, four eggs, gill 
of wine, gill of brandy, one quart sweet milk, half an ounce of nut- 
meg, two pounds raisins, one of citron ; rub the butter and flour 
together very fine, add half the sugar, then the yeast and half the 
milk (hot in winter, blood- warm in summer), then add the eggs, 
then remainder of the milk, and the wine; beat well and let rise in 
a warm place all night ; in the morning beat a long time, adding 
brandy, sugar, spice, and fruit well floured, and allows to^rise again 
very light, after which put in cake pans and let rise ten or fifteen 
minutes ; have the oven about as hot as for bread. This cake will 
keep anv length of time. For raised cakes use potato yeast if fresh 
made ; it is always a perfect success. This recipe is over one hun- 
dred years old. — Mrs. Eliza Burnham, Milford Center. 

Apple Fruit Cake. 
One cup butter, tvro of sugar, one of milk, two eggs, tea-spoon 
soda, three and a half cups flour, tw^o of raisins, three of dried 
apples soaked . over night and then chopped fine and stewed two 
hours in tw^o cups molasses ; beat butter and sugar to a cream, add 
milk, in which dissolve soda, then the beaten eggs and flour, and 



CAKE-MAKING. 



71 



lastly tlie raisins and apples well stirred in ; pour in pan and bake 
an hour and a half. — Airs. C. M. Ingman. 

Fruit Cake. 

One cup butter, one of brown sugar, half pint molasses, two eggs, 
cup sour milk, tea-spoon soda, pound of flour, one of currants, one 
and a half pounds raisins. Flavor to taste. This has been thor- 
oughly tested, and is a great favorite. — Mrs. M. E. Nicely. 

Fruit Cake. 

Twelve eggs, one and a half pounds each of butter, sugar and 

flour, two pounds each of raisins and currants, one pound citron, 

one half-pint molasses, one ounce each of nutmeg, mace and cloves, 

one and a half glasses of jelly (grape is best), one-fourth pint each 

of wine and brandy, more flour if needed. Put dough in pans, 

set in steamer, taking care that the cover is made to fit very tight ; 

if necessary put cloth under the lid and shut it down on it, taking 

care that it does not touch the cake, or lay several thicknesses of 

cloth over the lid. Steam two hours and bake one hour. — Chas. 

Cyphers, Minneapolis, Minn. 

Fruit Loaf Cake. 

One cup butter, two of brown sugar, one of New Orleans molas- 
ses, one of sweet milk, three eggs, five cups sifted flour, two tea- 
spoons cream tartar in the flour, tea-sj^oon soda in the milk, table- 
spoon cinnamon, one nutmeg, one pound raisins, one of currants, 
quarter pound citron (citron may be omitted, and half the quantity 
of raisius and currants will do). Put flour in a large crock, mix 
well with cream tartar, make a well in the center, put in other ingre- 
dients, having warmed the butter and molasses a little ; mix well 
together with the hands, putting in the fruit last after it has been 
floured ; bake two hours in a moderate oven. This will make two 
common-sized loaves. — Mrs. N. S. Long. 

Fruit Cake. 

Three pounds butter, three of brown sugar, beaten to a cream, 
three of flour, six of currants, six of raisins, after seeds are removed, 
one of citron sliced thin, three glasses brandy, twenty-eight eggs, 
one ounce cinnamon, one of grated nutmeg, three-quarters ounce 
cloves, half ounce mace ; roll the raisins, currants and citron in 
pn rt of the flour. — Miss H. D. Maiiin, New York City. 



72 



CAKE-MAKING. 



Fruit Cake. 

One pound brown sugar, one of butter, one of eggs, one of flour, 
two of raisins, two of currants, half pound citron, a nutmeg, table- 
spoon cloves, one of allspice, half pint brandy, and two tea-spoons 
baking-powder. After baking, while yet warm, pour over cake a, 
half pint wine. This makes the cake delicious.— ilfi^-s Angie Skinner, 
Somerset. 

Excellent Frutt Cake. 

One and a half pounds raisins, one and a fourth pounds currants, 
three-fourths pound citron, pound butter, pound sugar, one and a 
fourth pounds flour, ten eggs, two table-spoons lemon, two tea-spoons 
yeast powder ; mix a fourth pound of the flour in the fruit.— 3frs. 
J. W. Gnibhs, Richmond, Ind. 

Poor Man's Fruit Cake. 

One and a half cups brown sugar, two of flour, one each of but- 
ter and chopped raisins, three eggs, three table-spoons sour milk,, 
half tea-spoon soda, half cup blackberry jam. This is excellent as 
well as economical.— ilfrs. J. S. Robinson, Chicago, Hi. 

Scotch Fruit Cake. 
A cup butter, two of white sugar, four of sifted flour, three- 
fourths cup sour milk, half tea-spoon soda, nine eggs beaten separ- 
ately, one pound raisins, half pound currants, a fourth pound citron; 
cream the butter and sugar, add milk gradually, then beaten yolks 
of eggs, and lastly, while stirring in flour, the whites well whipped. 
Flavor with one tea-spoon lemon, and one of vanilla extract, and 
have raisins chopped a little, or, better still, seeded, and citron 
sliced thin. Wash and dry currants before using, and flour all fruit 
slightly. In putting cake in pan, place first a thin layer of cake, 
then sprinkle in some of the three kinds of fruit, then a layer of 
cake, and so on, always finishing ofl* with a thin layer of cake. Bake 
in a moderate oven for two hours. Tested by many and has never 
failed. —3/rs. J. H. Shearer. 

Thanksgiving Fruit Cake. 
Six pounds flour, three of butter, three and a half of sugar, an 
ounce mace, two glasses wine, two glasses brandy, four pounds 
raisins, half pound citron, six eggs, one pint yeast, small tea-spoon 



CAKE-MAKING. 



7a 



soda put in at last moment. After tea, take all the flour (except 
one plate for dredging raisins), a small piece butter, and a quart or 
more of milk, and mix like biscuit ; then mix butter and sugar, and 
at nine o'clock in the evening, if sufficiently light, put one-third of 
butter and sugar iuto dough ; at twelve add another third, and very 
early in the morning the remainder ; about eleven o'clock, if light 
enough, begin kneading, and continue for an hour, adding mean- 
while all the other ingredients. This will make seven loaves.— 
Mrs, Woodiv(rdh, Sprin^ld, 3Iass. 

Choice Fig Cake. 
A large cup butter, two and a half of sugar, one of sweet milk, 
three pints flour with three tea-spoons baking-powder, whites of six- 
teen eggs, a pound and a quarter of flgs well floured and cut in 
strips like citron ; no flavoring. — Mi^s. A. B. Morey, 

Groom's Cake. 

Ten eggs beaten separately, one pound butter, one of white sugar, 
one of flour, two of almonds blanched and chopped fine, one of 
seeded raisins, half pound citron, shaved fine ; beat butter to a 
cream, add sugar gradually, then the well-beaten yolks; stir all till 
very light, and add the chopped almonds ; beat the whites stifl" and 
add gently with the flour ; take a httle more flour and sprinkle over 
the raisins and citron, then put in the cake-pan, first a layer of cake 
batter, then a layer of raisins and citron, then cake, and so on till 
all is used, finishing ofl* with a layer of cake. Bake in a moderate 
oven two hours. — Mai^ Wikox, Dalton. 

Hard -Money Cake. 

Gold Part.— Yolks of eight eggs, scant cup butter, two of sugar, 
four of flour, one of sour milk, tea-spoon soda, table-spoon com 
starch ; flavor with lemon and vanilla. 

Silver Part— Two cups sugar, one of butter, four (scant) of flour, 
one of sour milk, tea-spoon soda, table-spoon corn starch, whites of 
eight eggs ; flavor with almond or peach. Put in pan, alternately, 
one spoonful of gold and one of silver.— 3/is8 Emma Fisher. 

Hayes Cake. 

One cup sugar, half cup butter, three eggs beaten well together, 
level tea-spoon soda stirred iu half cup sour milk, two small cups 



74 



CAKE-MAKING. 



flour ; flavor with lemon, pour in small dripping-pan, bake half an 
hour, and cut in squares. This cake is always elected for a " second 
term." — Miss Flora Ziegler, Columbus. 

Hickory-nut Cake. 
Two cups sugar, one of milk, two-thirds cup butter, three of flour, 
three eggs, two tea-spoons baking-powder, a cup nut-kernels cut 
fine. Tried, and not found wanting. — Mrs. Judge West, Bellefontaine. 

Hickory-nut Cake. 
A cup butter, two of sugar, three of fiour, one of sweet milk, 
whites of seven and yolks of two eggs, a tea-spoon soda, two of 
cream tartar, one pint hickory-nut meats rolled and sprinkled with 
flour ; beat the whites to a stifl* froth. Rich and excellent. — Mrs. 
A. B. Morey. 

Imperial Cake. 
One pound butter and one of sugar beaten to a cream, one pound 
flour, the grated rind and juice of a lemon, nine eggs, one and a 
quarter pounds almonds before they are cracked, half pound citron, 
half pound raisins ; beat the yolks light, add sugar and butter, then 
the whites beaten to a stifl* froth, and the flour, reserving a part for 
the fruit, and, lastly, the nuts blanched, cut fine and mixed with 
fruit and the rest of the flour. This is very delicious, and will keep 
for months. — Mrs. E. R. May, Minneapolis, Minn. 

Lady's Cake. 

One-half cup butter, one and a half of sugar, two of flour, nearly 
one of sweet milk, half tea-spoon soda, one of cream tartar, whites 
of four eggs well beaten; flavor with peach or almond. — Miss M, 
E. W.y Madison. 

Yellow Lady's Cake. 

One and a half cups flour, one of sugar, half cup butter, half 
cup sweet milk, tea-spoon soda, two tea-s})oons cream tartar, yolks 
of four eggs, tea-spoon vanilla. — Olivia S. Hinman, Battle Creek, 
Mich. 

Lemon Cake. 

One pound flour, one of sugar, three-fourths pound butter, seven 
eggs, juice of one and rind of two lemons. The sugar, butter and 
yolks of eggs must be beaten a long time, adding, by degrees, the 



CAKE-MAKTNG. 



75 



flour, and the whites of eggs last. A tumbler and a half of sliced 
citron many be added. This keeps well. — Mis^ M. B. Fullington. 

Aunt Hettie's Loaf Cake. 
Two cups sugar and one of butter beaten to a cream, three eggs, 
the whites beaten separately, three cups Hour with one tea-spoon 
cream tartar stirred in, yolks of the eggs stirred well with the sugar 
and butter ; now add two cups more flour with one tea-spoon 
cream tartar, one cup sweet milk and the whites of the eggs, and 
then stir again; add one nutmeg, one pound raisins or currants 
dredged with flour, one tea-spoon soda dissolved in four table-spoons 
of water. This makes two nice loaves, and is excellent. 

Fkench Loaf Cake. 

Five cups sugar, three of butter, two of milk, ten of flour, six 
eggs, three nutmegs, pound seeded raisins, a grated lemon, small 
tea-spoon soda, wine-glass wine, one of brandy, or, two-thirds of a 
cup of Orleans molasses. — Mrs. A. S. Chapman. 

Old-fashioned Loaf Cake. 

Three pounds (three quarts sifted and well heaped) flour, one and 
a fourth pounds (a rounded pint of soft) butter, one and three- 
fourths pounds (one quart) sugar, five gills new milk, half pint 
yeast, three eggs, two pounds raisins, tea-spoon soda, gill of brandy 
or wune, or a fourth pint of molasses, two tea-spoons cinnamon and 
two of nutmeg. Scald the milk, cool to blood warm, add the yeast, 
then the flour, to which all the butter and half the sugar have been 
added ; then mix together, and let rise until light. It is better to 
set this sponge over night, and in the morning add the other ingre- 
dients (flouring raisins), and let rise again. When light, fill baking- 
pans and let rise again. Bake in a moderate oven. This recipe 
makes three large loaves, and is a standard, economical loaf-cake. — 
3Irs. E.r-Gov. John J. Bagley, Mich. 

Marble Cake. 

White Part. — Whites of seven eggs, three cups white sugar, one 
of butter, one of sour milk, four of flour, sifted and heaping, one 
tea-spoon soda ; flavc^r to taste. 

Drt?7: Pay-f. — Y.;lks of >even eggs, thi-ee cup- brown sugar, one of 
butter, one of sour milk, four of flour, sifted and heaping, one 



76 



CAKE-MAKING. 



table-spoon each of cinnamon,^ allspice and cloves, one tea-spooa 
soda ; put in pans a sjx)onful of white part and then a spoonful of 
dark, and so on. Bake an hour and a quarter. Use coifee-cups to 
measure. This will make one large and one medium cake. The 
white and dark parts are alternated, either by putting in a spoonful 
of white, then of dark, or a layer of white and then of dark part, 
being careful that the cake may be nicely marbleized." — Mrs, 3L 
E. Smith, Cleveland. 

Marbled Chocolate Cake. 
Make a batter as for white cake, take out one tea-cup, add to it 
five table-spoons of grated chocolate, moisten with milk, and flavor 
with vanilla ; pour a layer of the white batter into the baking-pan, 
then drop the chocolate batter with a spoon in spots, and spread the 
remainder of the white batter over it. — Mrs. Sarah Phelps, Spring- 
field, Ohio. 

One-Egg Cake. 
One cup butter, one and a half cups sugar, three of flour, one 
of sweet milk, one egg, tea-spoon soda, tw^o tea-spoons cream tartar 
in the flour, cup raisins chopped fine. — 3frs. A. S. C. 

Orange Cake. 

Two cups sugar, four eggs, leaving out the whites of two, half 
cup butter, one of water, two tea-spoons baking-powder, three cups 
flour, juice, grated rind, and pulp of one orange; use the remain- 
ing whites for frosting the top. — 3frs. D. Buxton. 

Citron Pound Cake. 
One pound sugar, one of flour, three-fourths pound butter, eight 
large or ten small eggs, one and a fourth pound citron finely 
shredded; cream butter and sugar, add the yolks, the nthe flour 
and well -whipped whites; put layer of batter in cake-pan and 
sprinkle thickly with citron, then another layer of batter, etc., till 
pan is filled. Bake slowly one and a half to two hours. — Mrs. J". 
M. Soutlmrd. 

Pyramid Pound Cake. 

One pound sugar, one of butter, one of flour, ten eggs; bake in 
a dripping-pan one inch in thickness; cut when cold into pieces 
three and a half inches long by two wide, and frost top and sides; 



CAKE-MAKING. 



77 



(r 
to 



form on the cake stand in pyramid before the icing is quite dry by 
laying, first in a circle, five pieces ^Yith some space between them; 
over the spaces between these lay five other pieces, gradually draw- 
ing in the column and crowning the top with a bouquet of flowers. 
— Mrs. Dr. Thmipson. 

White Pound Cake. 
One pound sugar, one of flour, half pound butter, whites of six- 
teen eggs, tea-spoon baking-powder sifted thoroughly with the flour; 
put in cool oven with gradual increase of heM. For boiled icin 
for the cake, take three cups sugar boiled in one of water until 
clear; beat whites of three eggs to very stifif froth, and pour over 
them the boiling liquid, beating all the time for ten minute; frost 
while both cake and icing are Avarm. —Jfrs. Ada Estelle Bever, Cedar 
Rapids, Iowa. 

Rice Cake. 

One pound sugar, a pound of ground rice, half pound butter, 
nme eggs, rose-water to taste; add a little salt, beat butter and 
sugar together, add rose-water, salt and eggs, lastly the rice ; bake 
in shallow^ pans. — G(wmior Rice, Mem. 

Sponge Cake. 

Three eggs, one and a half cups powdered sugar, two of sifted 
flour, two tea-spoons cream tartar, half cup cold water, tea-spoon 
soda, grated rind and half the juice of one lemon ; bake in dripping- 
pan. — Mrs. Eliza J. Starr. 

Sponge Cake. 

Twelve eggs, pint pulverized sugar, one of flour, measured before 
sifting, small tea-spoon salt, heaping tea-spoon baking powder, es- 
sence^'of lemon for flavor; beat the whites to a very stifle froth, and 
add sugar ; beat the yolks, strain and add them to the whites and 
sugar, and beat the whole thoroughly ; mix baking-powder and salt 
in the flour and add last, stirring in small quantities at a time ; bake 
one hour in a six-quart pan in a moderate oven. This makes one 
very large cake. By weight use one pound pulverized sugar and 
three-fourths pound flour.— 3fe S. Alice Melcking. 

Sponge Cake. 

One pound sugar, one of flour, ten eggs; stir yolks of eggs and 
sugar till perfectly light ; beat whites of eggs and add them with 



78 



CAKE-MAKING. 



the flour after beating together lightly; flavor with lemon. Three 
tea-spoons baking-powder in the flour Avill add to its lightness, but 
it never fails without. Bake in a moderate oven. — Mrs. Mary 
Reynolch, Hamilton. 

Mrs. Jennison's Sponge Cake. 
One lemon, three gills flour, one pint sugar, eight eggs; beat the 
yolks of the eggs thoroughly, add the sugar little by little, and the 
grated rind of the l^mon ; beat the whites of the eggs to a stifl* 
froth, and add them alternately with the flour, beating very gently 
and barely long enough to mix well ; when part of the flour is in, 
add the lemon juice. Bake twenty minutes, in small loaves. — In 
the Kitchen. 

Phil Sheridan Cake. 

Four cups fine white sugar, five of sifted flour, one of butter, one 
and a half of sweet milk, one tea-spoon soda dissolved in the milk, 
two of cream tartar, whites of sixteen eggs ; stir sugar and butter 
to a cream, then add whites of eggs beaten to a stifl* froth, next add 
flour, then the milk and soda ; stir several minutes, and then add 
cream tartar and flavoring. This makes a large cake. — Mrs. Mary 
S. Moore, GranvUle. 

Spice Cake. 

Three pounds seedless raisins, one and a half pounds citron, one 
pound butter, two and a half cofifee-cups sugar, two of sweet milk, 
four of flour, six eggs, two large tea-spoons baking-powder, three 
tea-spoons cinnamon, two of mace. — Mrs. Gov. Potts, Montana. 

Snow Cake. 

Half tea-cup butter, one of sugar, one and a half of flour, half 
cup sweet milk, whites of four eggs, tea-spoon baking-powder ; flavor 
with lemon. — Mrs. Wm. Patrick, Midland, Mich. 

Snow Cake. 

Whites of ten eggs beaten to a stiff* froth, sift lightly on this one 
and a half cups fine white or pulverized sugar, stir well, and add cup 
flour mixed with tea-spoon baking-powder; flavor with lemon or 
vanilla. — Mrs. Dr. Koogler, Connersville Ind. 



CAKE-MAKING. 



79 



Ten-Minute Cake. 
One-fourth pound butter, a little less than a pound flour, the 
same of sugar, six eggs beaten separately ; flavor with mace and 
bake in muffin-rings.— i¥rs. S. C. Lee, Baltimore, Md. 

TiLDEN Cake. 

One cup butter, two of pulverized sugar, one of sweet milk, three 
of flour, half cup corn starch, four eggs, two tea-spoons baking- 
powder, two of lemon extract. This is so excellent that a bar- 
rel" would not be too much of it.— Mrs. T. B., Oiicago, 111 

Tin-Wedding Cake. 
Rub one cup butter and three of sugar to a cream; add one cup 
milk, four of flour, five eggs, one tea-spoon cream tartar, half tea- 
spoon soda, one-fourth pound citron. This makes two loaves. — 
Mrs. J. H. Ferris, South Norwalk, Conn. 

Watermelon Cake. 

White Part.— Two cups white sugar, one of butter, one of sweet 
milk, three and a half of flour, whites of eight eggs, two teaspoons 
cream tartar, one of soda dissolved in a little warm water. 

Red Part.— One cup red sugar, half cup butter, third cup sweet 
milk, two cups flour, w^hites of four eggs, tea-spoon cream tartar, 
half tea-spoon soda, tea-cup raisins ; be careful to keep the red part 
around the tube of the pan and the white around the edge. It 
requires two persons to fill the pan. This is a very attractive and 
ornamental cake. — Mrs. Baxter. 

Wedding Cake. 
Fifty eggs, five pounds sugar, five of flour, five of butter, fifteen 
of raisins, three of citron, ten of currants, pint brandy, fourth 
ounce cloves, ounce cinnamon, four of mace, four of nutmeg. 
This makes forty-three and a half pounds, and keeps twenty years. 
This cake is unequaled.— ifrs. C. H. D., NoHhampton, Mass. 

White Cake. 

One cup butter, two of sugar, one of sweet milk, three of flour, 
whites of five eggs, two tea-spoons baking powder. Easily made, 
and very good. — Mrs. Daniel Miller. 



80 



LAYER-CAKES. 



White Perfection Cae:e. 

Three cups sugar, one of butter, one of milk, three of flour, one 
of corn starch, whites of twelve eggs beaten to a stiff froth, two 
tea-spoons cream tartar in the flour, and one of soda in half the 
milk ; dissolve the corn starch in the rest of the milk, and add it to 
the sugar and butter well beaten together, then the milk and soda, 
and the flour and whites of eggs. This cake is rightly named 
"Perfection."— J/rs. C. Jones, Bradford, Vt. 



LAYER-CAKES. 



In baking layer-cakes it is important to thoroughly grease the 
tins — to make it emphatic, we will say thoroughly grease and then 
grease again — and after using rub off with a coarse towel, taking 
care that they are perfectly free from all small particles of cake, 
grease and fill again, thus obviating the necessity of washing every 
time they are filled. If jelly is used to spread between the layers, 
it is a good plan to beat it smoothly and spread it before the cakes 
are quite cool. In "building," an inverted jelly-tin furnishes a 
perfectly level surface on which to lay and spread the cake, and it 
may be allowed to remain on it until perfectly cold, when it should 
be set away in a tin cake-box, in a cool place. In cutting, it is 
better to first make a round hole in the center, with a knife, or a 
tin tube, about an inch and a quarter in diameter. This prevents 
the edge of the cake from crumbling in cutting. In making the 
custard or "filling" for layer-cake, place in a custard-kettle or in 
a tin pail. Set in boiling water to oook, to avoid all danger of 
burning. 

To blanch almonds, pour boiling w^ater over them, let stand a 
moment, drain and throw them into cold water, slip off the skins, 
and pound. 



Almond Cake. 

Two cups sugar, three-fourths cup butter, one of sweet milk, two 
of flour, and one of corn starch well mixed, whites of six eggs, two 



LAYER-CAKES. 



81 



tea-spoons cream tartar in the flour, one tea-spoon soda in the milk; 
cream the butter and sugar, add milk gradually, then the whites of 
eggs together with the flour, and bake in jelly-tins. To put between 
layers, take two pounds almonds, blanch and pound fine in a mor- 
tar (or a cloth will do), beat whites and yolks of two eggs together 
lightly, add a cup and a half sugar, then the almonds, with one 
table-spoon vanilla.— il/rs. Harvey Wood. 

Almond Cream Cake. 
On beaten whites of ten eggs, sift one and a half goblets pulver- 
ized sugar, and a goblet flour through winch has been stirred a 
heaping" tea-spoon cream tartar; stir very gently and do not heat it; 
bake in jellv-pans. For cream, take a half pint sweet cream , yolks 
of three eg^s, table-spoon pulverized sugar, tea-spoon coi-n starch ; 
dissolve sta'i-ch smoothly with a littl(> milk, beat yolks and sugar 
too-ether with this, boil the cream, and stir these ingredients m as 
for anv cream-cake filling, only make a little thicker ; blanch and 
chop fine a half pound almonds and stir into the cream. Put to- 
gether like jelly cake while icing is soft, and stick in a half pound 
of almonds split in two.— J/rs. Pans Glimn, Mbuimpolis, 3Iinn. 

Boston Cream Puffs. 
Put half pint hot water and two-thirds cup butter over the fire; 
when boiling, stir in one and a half cups flour, and continue stirring 
ur*il smooth and the mixture leaves the sides of the sauce-pan; 
remove from fire, cool, and beat thoroughly into it five well-beaten 
eggs Drop on warm greased tins (or a dripping-pan), a table- 
spoon in a place, leaving space between to prevent touching, brush 
over with the white of an egg, and bake ten or fifteen mmutes m a 
quick oven. When cakes are done, they will be hollow. When 
cold, slice off" the top, fill space with the cream, and replace top. _ 

O-eam/or Inside.-Teke one pint milk, place one-half in a tin 
pail and set in boiling water ; reserve from the other half two table- 
spoons to mix with eggs, and into the rest, while cold, mix one cup 
of flour until smooth ; when the milk is hot, pour in the flour, and 
stir until thicker than boiled custard ; then beat well together the 
two table-spoons milk, two eggs, one cup granulated sugar, a level 
6 



82 



LAYER-CAKES. 



table-spoon butter, and a tea-spoon vanilla or lemon ; add gradually ^ 
and continue stirring briskly until so thick that when cold it will 
drop, not pour, from the spoon. The pufls may be kept on hand. 
Make the cream fresh, let it cool, and fill as many as are w^antedc 
— Mrs. Ex- Governor Noyes, Ciiicimiati, OJiio. 

Buckeye Cream Puffs. 
Five eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately, one and a half 
cups each of white sugar and sifted flour, two tea-spoons baking 
powder in the flour ; bake in tea-cups, filling about half full. The 
cream is prepared by placing a small tin pail containing a pint sweet 
milk in a kettle of boiling water ; beat the whites and yolks of two 
eggs separately ; stir in the milk while boiling, a half tea-cup 
sugar, a large table-spoon corn starch dissolved in a little sw^eet 
milk, then the beaten yolks and a piece of butter the size of a large 
walnut ; flavor with lemon or vanilla. When done, cut the cakes 
open, put in a spoonful of the cream, place together again, roll in 
the whites, and then in coarse granulated sugar. — Mrs. A. S. 
Chapman. 

French Cream Cake. 

Three eggs, one cup granulated sugar, one and a half cups flour, 
two table-spoons cold water, tea-spoon baking powder. This is 
enough for two cakes l)aked in pie-pans, to be split while warm, 
spreading the hot custard between them, or for four cakes baked in 
jelly-pans, with the hot custard spread between them, the latter 
being the prefera])le phxn. For custard, boil nearly one pint sweet 
milk ; mix two table-spoons corn starch with a half tea-cup sweet 
milk, add two well-beaten eggs ; when milk has boiled add nearly a 
cup sugar, and add gradually the corn starch and eggs, stirring 
briskly; add a half cup butter, stirring until dissolved, flavor with 
one tea-spoon vanilla, and spread between cakes while hot. This 
cake can be used as a pudding by pouring over each piece a spoonful 
of the custard that is left. — Mrs. Charles Morey. 

Golden Cream Cake. 
Cream one cup sugar and one-fourth cup butter, add half cup 
sweet milk, the well beaten wdiites of three eggs, one and a half 
cups flour, with half a tea-spoon soda, and a tea-spoon cream tartar 



LAYER-CAKES. 



83 



sifted with it ; bake in three deep jelly-tins ; beat very light the 
yolks of two eggs, one cup sugar, and two table-spoons rich sweet 
cream, flavor with vanilla, and spread on cakes; or to yolks add 
one and a half tal^le-spoons corn starch, three-quarters cup sweet 
milk and small lump butter ; sweeten and flavor to taste, cook in a 
custard-kettle till thick, let cool, and then spread. —3/r8. J. i¥. 
Southard. 

Ice-Cream Cake. 
Make good sponge-cake, bake half an inch thick in jelly-pans, 
and let them get perfectly cold ; take a pint thickest sweet cream, 
beat until it looks like ice-cream, make very sweet, and flavor with 
vanilla ; blanch and chop a pound almonds, stir into cream, and 
put very thick between each layer. Tliis is the queen of all cakes. 

— Miss Mattie Fullincjton. 

Ice-Cream Cake. 

One-fourth pound each butter and powdered sugar, half pint 
milk, half pound flour, six eggs, one glass wine, one nutmeg; bake 
quickly in iron gem-pans. They raise light with hollow center. 
When cold, cut a round hole in top (as you would ''plug" a melon), 
fill with ice-cream just before serving, so that it will not have time 
to melt.— A. C. Glazier, Chicago, III. 

Cocoa-nut Cake. 
To the well-beaten yolks of six eggs, add two cups powdered 
white sugar, three-fourths cups butter, one of sweet milk, three and 
a half of flour, one level tea-spoon soda and two of cream tartar, 
whites of four eggs well beaten; bake in jelly-cake pans. For 
icing, grate one cocoa-nut, beat whites of two eggs, and add one 
tea-^up powdered sugar; mix thoroughly with the grated cocoa-nut, 
and spread evenly on the layers of cake when they are cold.— 
M^^' NeUie Miller, Columbus. 

Caramel Cake. 
One and a half cups sugar, three-fourths cup butter, half cup 
milk, two and a fourth cups flour, three eggs, one and a half heap- 
ing tea-spoons baking-powder, or a small tea-spoon soda, and twx) 
tea-spoons cream tartar; bake in jelly-tins. Make caramel as fol- 
lows : Butter size of an egg, pint brown sugar, half cup milk or 



84 



LAYER-CAKES. 



water, half cake chocolate ; boil twenty minutes (or until thick 
enough), and pour over cakes while warm, piling the layers one upon 
the other. For frosting for top of cake, take whites of two egg>, 
one and a half cups sugar, tea-spoon vanilla, three heaping tea- 
spoons grated chocokite. — Mrs. Ella Smder, Minneapolis, Minn. 

Delicious Chocolate Cake. 
The whites of eight eggs, two cups sugar, one of butter, three full 
€ups flour, one of sweet milk, three tea-spoons baking-powder; beat 
the butter to a cream, stir in the sugar, and beat until light ; add 
the milk, then the flour and beaten whites. When well beaten, 
divide into equal parts, and into half grate a cake of sweet choco- 
late. Bake in layers, spread with custard, and alternate the white 
and dark cakes. For custard for the cake, add a table-spoon of 
butter to one pint of milk, and let it come to a boil ; stir in two 
eggs beaten with one cup of sugar, add two teaspoons of corn starch 
dissolved in a little milk. — Mrs. J. M. Riddle, Belief ontaine. 

Chocolate Cake. 
One cup butter, two of sugar, one of milk, five eggs, leaving out 
the whites of three, four cups sifted flour, two tea-spoons baking- 
powder, or one small tea-spoon soda and tw^o of cream tartar in the 
flour; bake in three layers in deep jelly-tins. For icing, take whites 
of three eggs, beaten stiff, one and a half cups powdered sugar, 
six table-spoons grated chocolate, two tea-spoons vanilla. — Mrs. J. 
H. Shearer. 

Cup Cake. 

Three cups sugar, one of butter, six of flour, two-thirds pint sour 
cream, seven eggs (leaving out the whites of two for icing), one 
even tea-spoon soda in the cream, tea-spoon soda in the flour, one of 
cream tartar, and one of lemon or vanilla. Bake in pans one inch 
deep, and when done spread one with icing, and lay the other on 
top of it, allowing two layers for each cake. — Mrs. Dr. Thovipson. 

DOMIXOES. 

Make ''Mrs. Jennisoifs sponge cake," bake in long pie- tins (two 
such tins will make twelve dominoes, and if no more are required, 
the rest of the batter may be baked in a loaf). The batter in the 
pie-tins should not be more than one- third of an inch deep ; spread 
it evenly, and bake in a quick oven. Have a brown paper nearly 



LAYER-CAKES. 



85 



twice the size of the cake on the table, and the moment one of the 
cakes comes from the oven turn it upside down in the center of the 
paper, spread it with a thin layer of currant jelly, and lay the other 
cake on it upside down, cut it with a hot, sharp knife lengthwise, 
directly through the center, then divide it across in six equal parts, 
push them with the knife about an inch apart, and ice them with 
ordinary white icing, putting a large dessert-spoonful on every piece ; 
the heat of the cake will soften it, and with a little help the edges 
and sides will be smoothlv covered. All of the icing that runs over 
on the paper may be carefully taken up and used again. It must 
then dry, which it will do very quickly. Make a horn of stiff white 
paper about five inches long, one and a half niches across the top, 
and one-eightli of an inch at the other end ; put in it a dessert-spoon 
of dark chocolate icing, close the horn at the top, and pressing out 
the icing from the small opening, draw a line of it across the center 
of every cake, and then make spots hke those on ivory dominoes ; 
keep the horn supplied with icing.— In tJie Kitchen. 

Fig Cake. 

Silver Part— Two cups sugar, two-thirds cup butter, not quite 
two-thirds cup sweet milk, whites of eight eggs, three heaping tea- 
spoons baking-powder thoroughly sifted, with three cups flour ; stir 
suo-ar and butter to a cream, add milk and flour, and last white 
of eggs. 

Gold Part— One cup sugar, three-fourths cup butter, half cup 
sweet milk, one and a half tea-spoons baking-powder sifted in a little 
more than one and a half cups flour, yolks of seven eggs thoroughly 
beaten, and one whole egg, one tea-spoon allspice, and cinnamon 
until vou can taste it ; bake the white in two long pie-tins. Put 
half the gold in a pie-tin, and lay on one pound halved figs (previ- 
ously sifted over with flour), so that they will just touch each other; 
put on the rest of the gold, and bake. Put the cakes together with 
frosting while warm, the gold between the white ones, and cover 
with frosting. — 3riss Tina Lay, Clyde, 0. 

Hard-Times Cake. 

Half a cup of butter, two of sugar, one of sour cream, three of 
flour, three eggs, half tea-spoon of soda ; bake in layers and spread 
with jelly. — Mrs. R. M. Llenderson. 



86 



LAYER-CAKES. 



Hickory-nut Custard Cake. 
Cream one pound sugar and half 230imd butter; add five eggs 
beaten separately, one cup sweet milk, one pound flour, three tea- 
spoons leaking powder, flavor with lemon, and bake in jelly-pans. 
For custard, place one pint milk in a tin pail and set in boiling 
water; add a table-S})Oon of corn starch dissolved in a little milk, 
two eggs, ono-lialf cup sugar, two cups chopped hickory-nut meats, 
well mixed together to the boiling milk ; stir, and put between the 
layers of the cake, while both cake and custard are warm. This is 
excellent. 

Rolled Jelly Cake. 

Beat tvrelve eggs and one pound pulverized sugar together very 
lightly, tlien stir in three-fourths pound of flour, making batter as 
light as tor sponge-cake, and thin enough to spread nicely when 
poureii; make up as quickly as possiljle. Have shallow tin-pans 
prepared (about twelve by eighteen inclies and an inch deep) by 
lining with ih'm brown paper, using no grease on pan or paper; 
pour in batter, spread out with a knife as tldn as ])ossible (about 
half an inch thick), and bake in solid oven. "When done, remove 
from oven, let cool a few minutes, and while still warm, but not 
hot, turn out of pan upside down. With a brush or soft cloth wet 
in cold water, l)rush over the paper and pull it oif : spread cake 
thin with jelly and roll it up, being careful to place the outer edge 
of roll against something so that it will not unroll until cold. 
Sprinkle with powdered sugar and serve. If baked in pans such 
as are described above, the recipe will make two rolls, each twelve 
inches long, whucli sliould be cut in tvro, making four rolls. Use 
no baking-powder, as it makes the cake too brittle. Many use 
none in spo.nge-cake. The paper lining should be larger than pan, 
to lift out the cake by taking hold of the projecting edges. This 
never fails. — C. W. Ciiphers, Minneapolis. 

Kelly Islaxd Cake 

One cup butter, two of sugar, three of flour, four eggs, half cup 
milk, three tea-spoons baking-powder; bake in jelly-tins. For 
filling, stir togetlier a grated lemon, a large grated tart apple, an 
egg, and a cup sugar, and boil four minutes. A very excellent 
cake. — Miss Greeley Grubbs. 



LAYER-CAKES. 



87 



Lemon Cake. 

One and one-half cups sugar, one of butter, two and one-half of 
flour, five eggs beaten separately, four tea-spoons sweet milk, tea- 
spoon cream tarUir, half tea-spoon soda. 

For Jelly.— Take coffee-cup sugar, two table-spoons butter, two 
eggs, and tlie juice of two lemons: beat all together and boil until 
the consistency of jelly. For orange cake use oranges instead of 
lemons. — Miss Minnie Brown. 

Lady's Finc4ePvS. 
One and one-eighth pound of flour, one of powdered sugar, ten 
eggs ; beat eggs and sugar as light as for sponge-cake ; sift in with 
flour one tea-spoon baking-powder and stir slowly. Make a funnel- 
shaped ba^^ of heavy ticking or strong brown paper ; through tUe 
hole in the small end push a funnel-shaped tin tube, one-third inch 
in diameter at small end and provided with a flange at the other to 
prevent it from slipping quite through ; tie the small end of bag 
flrmly around the tube, and you have a fur.nel-shaped sack with a 
Arm nozzle projecting slightly from the small end. Lito this bag 
pour the batter, over which gather up the bag tightly so that none 
^vill run out, press and run the dough out quickly through the 
tube into a pan lined with light brown paper (not buttered), mak- 
ing' each ab(Hit a linger long, and about as thick as a lead-pencil, 
belncr carefnl not to get them too wide. Sprinkle with granulated 
sugar, bake in a quick oven, and, when cool, wet the under side 
of^he paper with a brush, remove and stick the fingers together 
back to back. The bag, when made of ticking, will be useful in 
making macaroons and other small cakes. Unsurpassed. —C/iarZes 
W. Cyphers, Minneapolis, Minn. 

:\[iNNEiiAnA Cake. 
One and a half cups granulated sugar, half cup butter stirred to 
a cream, whites of six eg-s, or tkree whole eggs, two tea-spoons 
cream tartar stirred in two heaping cups sifted flour, one tea-spoon 
soda in half cup sweet milk ; bake in three layers. For fillmg, take 
a tea-cup sugar and a little water boiled together untd it is brittle 
^yhen dropped in cold water, remoye from stove and stir quickly 
into the well-beaten white of an egg ; add to this a cup of stoned 



88 



LAYER-CAKES. 



raisins chopped fine, or a cup of chopped hickory-nut meats, and 
place between layers and over the top. A universal favorite. — 
Mrs. E. W. Herrick, Minneapolis^ Minn. 

Metropolitan Cake. 
Two cups sugar, one of butter, one of milk, nearly four cups 
flour, whites of eight eggs, three tea-spoons baking-powder, flavor 
with lemon. Take a little more than three-fifths of this mixture 
in three jelly-tins, add to the remaining batter one table-spoon 
ground allspice, one and a half table-spoons cinnamon, tea-spoon 
cloves, fourth pound each of sliced citron and chopped rai- 
sins ; bake in two jelly-tins and put together with frosting, alter- 
nating dark and light. — Mrs, Dr. D. H. Moore, Wesley an College, 
Cincinnati. 

Neapolitan Cake. 

Blach Part— One cup brown sugar, two eggs, half cup butter, 
half cup molasses, half cup strong cofl^ee, two and a half cups flour, 
one of raisins, one of currants, a tea-spoon each of soda, cinnamon 
and cloves, and half tea-spoon mace. 

White Part.- -Two cups sugar, half cup butter, one of milk, 
two and a quarter of flour, one of corn starch, whites of four 
eggs, small tea-spoon cream tartar ; make frosting of whites of 
two eggs to put between the layers. — Mrs. Calida Haivks Gortner, 
Goshen, Ind. 

Orange Cake. 

One cup butter, one of water, two of sugar, four of flour, three 
eggs, three tea-spoons baking-powder; bake in layers. Take the 
juice of two large or three small oranges, cofifee-cup pulverized 
sugar, one egg; mix yolk of egg, sugar, and juice together; beat 
whites to a stifi* froth, stir in and spread between the layers. — Mrs. 
W. B. Broim, Washington D. C. 

Orange Cake. 

Two cups sugar, half cup batter, three and a half cups sifted 
flour, half cup sweet milk, three eggs beaten separately, three tea- 
spoons baking-powder mixed in flour; bake in jelly pans. For 
jelly take the juice and grated rind of two oranges, two table-spoons 
cold water, two cups sugar ; set in a pot of boiling water, and, 
when scalding hot, stir in the yolks of two well-beaten eggs, and 



LA YER-CAKES. 



S9 



just before taking from the fire stir in the white of one egg 
slightly beaten, and when cold put between the layers of cake. 
Frost the top with the other egg.— Miss Mardie Dolbear, Cape 
Girardeau, Mo. 

Orange Cake. 

Two-thirds cup butter, two small cups sugar, one cup milk, three 
tea-spoons baking-powder, the yolks of five eggs, three small cnps 
flour ; bake in jelly-tins. Whites of three eggs beaten to a stifi" 
froth, juice and grated peel of one orange, sugar to consistency; 
put this between the layers with white frosting on the top.— i¥r8. 
G(yv. Pillsbury, Minnesota. 

Peach Cake. 

Bake three sheets of sponge-cake as for jelly cake ; cut peaches 
in thin slices, prepare cream by whipping, sweetening and adding 
flavor of vanilla if desired, put layers of peaches between the sheets 
of cake, pour cream over each layer and over the top. This may also 
be made with ripe strawberries.— Woodivorth, Springfield, Mass. 

Ribbon Cake. 

Two and a half cups sugar, one of butter, one of sweet milk, 
tea-spoon cream tartar, half tea-spoon soda, four cups flour, four 
eggs; reserve a third of this mixture, and bake the rest in two 
loaves of the same size. Add to third reserved, or.e cup raisins, 
fourth pound citron, a cup of currants, two table-spoons molasses, 
tea-spoon each of all kinds of spice ; bake in a tin the same size as 
other loaves ; put the three loaves together with a little icing or 
currant jelly, placing the fruit loaf in the middle ; frost the top 
and sides.— Alice Trimble, Mt. Gilead. 

Favorite Snow-Cake. 

Beat one cup butter to a cream, add one and a h.alf cups flour 
and stir very thorouirhly toirether ; then add one cup corn starch, 
and one cup sweet milk in which three tea-spoons baking-powder 
have been dissolved ; last, add whites of eight eggs and two cups 
sugar well beaten together; flavor to taste, bake in sheets, and put 
together with icing. — Walter Moore, Hamilton. 

Thanksgiving Cake. 

Make batter as for cocoa-nut cake (Miss Nettie jNIiller's). Bake 
five layers in jelly-tins ; make frosting of whites of three eggs, three 



90 



LAYER-CAKES. 



tea-spoons baking powder, and three-fourths pound of pulverized 
sugar ; with frosting for first layer mix rolled liickory-nut meats, 
with that for second layer mix fine-sliced figs, for tliird with 
hickory-nut meats, for fourth with figs, and on the top spread 
the plain frosting, and grate cocoa-nut over thickly. — 3rrs. J. S. 
Robinson. 

Velvet Sponge Cake. 

Two cups sugar, six eggs leaving out the whites of three, one cup 
boiling hot water, two and one half cups flour, one table-spoon 
baking-powder in the flour ; beat the yolks a little, add the sugar 
and b'jat fifteen minutes; add the three beaten whites, and the cup 
of boiling water jtist before the flour; flavor with a tea-spoon lemon 
extract and bake in three layers, putting between tiiem icing made 
by adding to the three whites of eggs beaten to a stifl' froth, six 
dessert-spoons of pulverized sugar to each egg, and lemon to flavor. 
— Mrs, Wm. Brown, 3IassiUon. 

Vanity Cake. 

One and a half cups sugar, half citp butter, half cup sweet milk, 
one and a half cups flour, half cup corn starch, tea-spoon baking- 
powder, whites of six eggs ; bake in two cakes, ])utting frosting be- 
tween and on top. — Olivia S. Hinman, Battle Creek, Mich. 

White Mountain Cake. 

Two cups pulverized sugar, half ctip butter beaten to a cream; 
add iialf cu[) sweet milk, two and a half cups flour, two and a half 
tea-spoons baking-powder in the flour, whites of eight eggs ; bake in 
jelly-tins and })ut together with icing made by boiling a half tea- 
cup of water and three tea-cups sugar till thick ; pour it slowly over 
the well-beaten whites of three eggs, and beat all together till cool. 
Beat before putting on each layer. 

Sprinkle each layer thickly with grated cocoa-nttt, and a hand- 
some cocoa-nut cake will result. — Mrs. Dr. Stall, Union City, hid. 



DIRECTIONS FOR FROSTING. 



91 



DIRECTIOXS FOR FROSTIXG. 



Beat whites of eggs to a stiff froth, add powdered sugar grad- 
ually, heatimj well all the time. (There are various opinions about the 
leno-th of time frostino- should be beaten, some giving half an hour, 
others a mueli shorter time). Or, break the whites into a Inroad plat- 
ter, and at once begin adding powdered and sifted sugar, keep add- 
inc^ crraduallv, beating well all the Avhile until the ieing is perfectly 
smooth (tliirtv minutes beatinu" ouiriit to be sufficient) ; lastly, add 
flavoring (rose, pineapple or almond for white or delicate cake, and 
lemon or variilla for dark or fruit cake). Have the frosting ready 
Avhen the cake is baked; beat tlie white of one egg to a stiff froth, 
then stir in ten heaping tea-spoons pulverized sugar (well heaped, 
but not all that you can lift on the spoon) and one of corn starch; 
be sure that it is thoroughly beaten before taking the cake from the 
oven. If possible, have some one beating while you take out the 
cake. Xow invert a common tin milk-pan, placing it on a clean 
2mper, so if any falls off it can be used again, then place the cake 
on the pan and apply frosting ; it will run over the cake, becoming 
as smooth as glass, and adhere firmly to it. If but one person is 
engaged in preparing cake and frosting, and must necessarily stop 
beatino- while o-ettimr the cake in readiness, it will be best to beat 
the frostino; a few minutes asain before placing on cake. As eggs 
yarv in size, some common sense must be used in the quantity of 
the suirar. Practice only will teach how stiff icing ought to be. In 
preparing for a large party, when it is inconvenient to frost each 
cake as it is taken from the oven, and a number have become cold, 
place them in the oven to heat before frosting. If the cake is rough 
or brown when ])aked, dust with a little flour, rub off all loose par- 
ticles with a cloth, put on frosting, pouring it around the center of 
the cake, and smooth off as quickly as possible with a knife. If the 
frosting is rather stiff, dip the knife in cold water. If the flavor is 
lemon juice, allow more sugar for the additional liquid. It is nice, 
when the frostino- is almost cold, to take a knife and mark the cake 
in slices. Xny ornaments, such as gum drops, candies, orange flowers 



92 



DIRECTIONS FOR FROSTING, 



or ribbons should be put on while the icing is moist. When dry 
ornament with piping, which is a stiff icing squeezed through a 
paper funnel, and may be tinted with colored sugars. If the above 
directions are followed, the icing will not crumble. The recipe for 
Centennial Drops" (see index) is excellent for icing. In frosting 
sponge-cake it is an improvement to grate orange peel over the cake 
before frosting. 

Almond Frosting. 

Blanch half pint sweet almonds by putting them in boiling 
w^ater, stripping off the skins, and spreading upon a dry cloth 
until cold; pound a few of them at a time in a mortar till well 
pulverized; mix carefully whites of three eggs and three-quarters 
pint powdered sugar, add almonds, flavor with a tea-spoon vanilla 
or lemon, and dry in a cool oven or in the open air when weather 
is pleasant. 

Boiled Frosting. 

Whites of three eggs beaten to a stiff froth, one large cup 
granulated sugar moistened with four table-spoons hot water ; boil 
sugar briskly for five minutes or until it "jingles" on the bottom of 
the cup when dropped into cold water, or " ropes" or threads when 
dropped from the end of the spoon. Then, with left hand, pour the 
boiling syrup upon the beaten eggs in a small stream, while beat- 
ing hard with right hand. This is an excellent frosthig. If pre- 
ferred, add half pound sweet almonds blanched and pounded to a 
paste, or a cup of hickory-nut meats, chopped fine, and it will be 
perfectly delicious. This amount will frost the top of two large 
cakes. — Mrs. A. S. C. 

Chocolate Frosting. 
Six rounded table-spoons grated chocolate, one and a half cups 
powdered sugar, whites of three eggs ; beat the whites but very 
little (they must not become white), add the chocolate, stir it in; 
then pour in the sugar gradually, beating to mix it w^ll. — In the 
Kitchen. 

Frosting. 

Beat whites of two eggs to a stiff froth, add gradually half 
pound best pulverized sugar, beat well for at least half an hour, 
flavor with lemon juice (and some add tartaric acid, as both 



DIRECTIONS FOR FROSTING. 



93 



whiten tlie icing). To color a delicate pink, use strawberry, 
currant or cranberry; or the grated peeling of an orange or lemon 
moistened with the juice and squeezed through a thin cloth, will 
color a handsome yellow. This amount will frost one large cake. 
—Mrs. W. W. W. ^ 

Frosting with Gelatine. 
Dissolve large pinch gelatine in six table-spoons boiling wat^r ; 
strain and thicken with sugar and flavor with lemon. This is 
enough to frost two cakes. — Mrs. W. A. J. 

Frosting w^ithout Eggs. 

To one heaping tea-spoon Poland starch and just enough cold 
water to dissolve it, add a little hot water and cook in a basin set in 
hot water till very thick (or cook in a crock; either will prevent its 
burning or becoming lumpy). Should the sugar be lumpy roll it 
thoroughly, and stir in two and two-thirds cups while the starch is 
hot; flavor to taste, and si)read on while the cake is a little warm. 
Tliis should be made the day before using, as it takes longer to 
harden than when made with eggs, but it will never crumble in 
cutting. This is excellent.— -3frs. Ola Kellogg Wilcox. 

Minnesota Frosting. 

Beat whites of three eggs until frothy, not white, add one and a 
third pints powdered sugar gradually with one hand, beating 
briskly with the other. Flavor with a tea-spoon of vanilla. It is 
better not to beat the whites of the eggs until stifl* before adding 
sugar, as it makes the icing very hard to dry.— Mrs. G. J., Winona, 
Minn. 

Ornamental Frosting. 
Draw^ a small syringe full of the icing and w^ork it in any design 
you fancy ; wheels, Grecian borders, flowers, or borders of bead- 
ing look well. — Mrs. M. J. W. 

Yellow^ Frosting. 
The yolk of one egg to nine heaping tea-spoons pulverized sugar, 
and flavor with vanilla. Use the same day it is made.— i/rs. 

J. .s. w. 

Rose Coloring. 
Mix together one-fourth ounce each of powdered alum and cream 
tartar, one ounce pow^dered cochineal, four ounces loaf-sugar, and 



94 



CRULLERS AND DOUGHNUTS. 



a salt-spoon soda. Boil ten minutes in a pint pure soft water; 
when cool bottle and cork for use. This is used fur jellies, cake, 
ice-cream, etc.— J/rs W. E. H. , Minneapolis, 



CRULLERS AND DOUGHXUTS. 



To oook these properly the fat should be of the right heat„ 
When hot enough it will cease to bubble and ])e perfectly still; 
try with a bit of the batter, and if the heat is right the dough 
will rise in a few seconds to the top and occasion a bubbling in the 
fat, the cake will swell, and the under side quickly become brown. 
Clarified drippings of roast meat are more wholesome to fry them 
in than lard. A good suet may be prepared a,< follows for those 
who are sensible enough not to like greasy doughnuts or who He- 
braically oppose lard. Use only beef suet, which is quite as cheap, 
cleanly, and healthy. Buy from the meat markets, speaking before 
hand, and securing nice, whole, clean leaves, which cut up in small 
pieces, put into a dinner-pot, which will hold well about ten pounds. 
Put in a pint of water, and after the first liour stir frequently ; it 
takes about three hours with a good heat to render it. Drain 
through a coarse towel, and if the suet is good it will require but 
little^ squeezing, and leave but little scrap or cracklings. Put to 
cool in pans or jars, and you have an element into wliich, when well 
heated, you can drop the twisted goodies, with the assurance that 
they will not only be "done brown," but that they will emerge with 
a flavor and grain that will commend them to fiie favor of an epi- 
cure. Doughnuts thus cooked are more digestible and of better 
flavor than if cooked in lard, and the most fastidious will not need 
to peel them before eating. Make the dough as soft as it am be 
JmnxlM; if cut about half an inch thick, five to eight minutes will 
be time enough to cook, but it is better to break one open as a test. 
When done, drain well in a skimmer, and place in a colander. The 
use of eggs prevents the dough from absorbing the fat. Doughnuts 
should be watched closely while frying, and the fire must be regu- 



CR ULLEBS AND D 0 UGHNUTS. 



95 



lated very carefully. When you have finished frying, cut a potato 
in slices and put in the fat to clarify it, place the kettle aAvay until 
the fat " settles," strain into an earthen pot kept for this purpose, 
and set in a cool place. The sediment remaining in the bottom of 
the kettle may be used for soap-grease. Fry in an iron kettle, the 
common skillet being too shallow for the purpose. Do not eat 
doughnuts between April and November. Crullers are better the 
day after they are made. If lard is not fresh and sweet, slice a raw 
potato, and fry before putting in the cakes. 



Crullers. 

Two coffee-cups sugar, one of sweet milk, three eggs, a heaping 
table-spoon butter, three tea-spoons baking-powder mixed with six 
cups flour, half a nutmeg, and a level tea-spoon cinnamon. Beat 
eggs, sugar and butter together, add milk, spices and flour; put 
another cup flour on molding-board, turn the dough out on it, and 
knead until stiff enough to roll out to a quarter inch thick ; cut 
in squares, make three or four long incisions in each square, lift 
by taking alternate strips between the finger and tnumb, drop 
into hot lard, and cook like doughnuts. — 3Irs. A. F. Ziegler, Co- 
lumbns, Ohio. 

Fried Cakes. 

One co-Hee-cup of not too thick sour cream, or one of sour 
milk and one table-spoon of butter, two eggs, a little nutmeg 
and salt. <')ne tea-cup sugar, one small tea-spoon soda dissolved; 
mix soft. — jIv'^. S. Watson, Upper Sandusky. 

Corn Meal Doughnuts. 
A tea-cup and a half boiling milk poured over two tea-cups meal; 
when cool add two cups flour, one of butter, one and one-half of 
sugar, three eggs; flavor wath nutmeg or cinnamon; let rise till 
very light ; roll about half an inch thick, cut in diamond shape, 
and boil in hot lard. 

Cream Doughnuts. 
Beat one cup each of sour cream and sugar and two eggs to- 
gether, add level tea-spoon soda, a little salt, and flour enough to 
roll. — Mrs. Hattie Meade, Minneajpolis, Minn. 



1)6 



RULLERS AND DOUGHNUTS. 



Doughnuts. 

One egg, a cup rich milk, a cup .<ugar, three pints flour, three 
tea-spoons baking powder, (or one and a half measures Horsford^s 
Bread Preparation). These are made richer by adding one egg, 
and one tea-spoon butter. — Mrs. Jenks^ Belief ontairie, Ohio. 

North Star Doughnuts. 
One and a half cups sugar, one of sour milk, half cup butter, 
three eggs, a level tea-spoon soda, spice to taste, and flour to roll. — 
Mrs. A. J. Palmes, Alinneapolhiy Alinn. 

Raised Doughnuts. 

Peel and boil four good sized potatoes ; mash fine, and pour boil- 
ing water over them until of the consistency of gruel; let cool, add 
a yeast cake, and a little flour ; let rise till light, then add one j^int 
sw^eet milk, one and a half cups sugar, one-fourth cup (large meas- 
ure) lard, a salt-spoon salt, a little nutmeg and cinnamon; stir in 
flour until stifl*, let rise again, then add a half tea-spoon soda dis- 
solved in a little milk, pour out on molding board, mix stifl* enough 
to cut out, and roll to half an inch thickness; cut in long strips two 
inches wide and divide diagonally into pieces three inches long, set 
w^here it is warm, let rise on the board until light, and then fry. 
These do not cook through as easily as others, and it is safer to drop 
in one, and, by breaking it open, learn the time required for them 
to fry. A very nice variation of this recipe may be made as follows : 
R oll part of the dough about half an inch thick, cut into small 
biscuit, let rise, and when light, roll down a little, lay a few raisins 
rolled in cinnamon in the center, wet the edges by dipping the finger 
in cold water and passing it over them ; draw them together and 
press Hrrnly, and drop them in the hot fat. A tea-spoon of apple- 
butter or any kind of jam may be used instead of the raisins. 
When made with the raisins, thev are the real German " Ollv 
Koeks." — Mrs. J. L. H., MUnmikee. Wl<. 

Berlin Pancakes. 

Roll out dough slightly sweetened and shortened, as if for very 
plain doughnuts; cut in circles like biscuit, put a tea-spoon currant 
jam or jelly on the center of one, lay another upon it, press the 
edges tightly together with the fingers, and fry quickly in boiling 



COOKIES AND JUMBLES. 



97 



fat. They will be perfect globes when done, a little smaller than 
an orange. — Mrs. L. S. WUlidton, Heidelberg, Germany. 

Trifles. 

A quart flour, a cup sugar, two table-spoons melted butter, a 
little salt, two tea-spoons baking powder, one egg, and sweet milk 
sufficient to make rather stiff ; roll out in thin sheets, cut in pieces 
about two by four inches ; make as many cuts across the short way 
as possible, inserting the knife near one edge and ending the cut 
just before reaching the other. Pass two knitting-needles under 
every other strip, spread the needles as far apart as possible, and 
with them hold the trifles in the fat until a light brown. Only one 
can be fried at a time, — Miss Ettie Dalbey, Harrisburg, 



COOKIES AND JUMBLES. 



These require a quick oven. A nice "finishing touch" can be 
given by sprinkling them with granulated sugar and rolling over 
lightly with the rolling pin, then cutting out and pressing a whole 
raisin in the center of each; or when done a very light brown, brush 
over while still hot with a soft bit of rag dipped in a thick syrup 
of sugar and water, sprinkle with currants and return to the oven 
a moment. 

Ada's Sugae Cakes. 
Three cups sugar, two of butter, three eggs well beaten, one tea- 
spoon soda, flour sufficient to roll out. 

Cookies. 

One cup butter, two of sugar, one of cold water, half tea-spoon 
soda, two eggs and just flour enough to roll. — Mrs. Mary F. Orr. 

Eggless Cookies. 
Two cups sugar, one of milk, one of butter, half tea-spoon nut- 
meg, half tea-spoon soda, flour to make thick enough to roll. 
7 



98 



COOKIES AND JUMBLES. 



Good Cookies. 

Two cups sugar, one of butter, one of sour cream or milk, three 
eggs, one tea-spoon soda; mix soft, roll tliin, sift granulated sugar 
over them, and gently roll it in. — Mrs. Judge West, Belief ontaine, Ohio, 

Lemon Snaps. 

A large cup sugar, two-thirds cup butter, half tea-spoon soda 
dissolved in two tea-spoons hot water, flour enough to roll thin ; 
flavor with lemon. — Mrs. E. L. C, Springfield. 

Nutmeg Cookies, 
Two cups white sugar, three-fourths cup butter, two-thirds cup 
sour milk, nutmeg or caraway seed for flavor, two eggs, half tea- 
spoon soda, and six cups of flour, or enough to roll. Roll thin, and 
bake in a quick oven. 

Pepper-nuts. 

One pound sugar, five eggs, half pound butter, half tea-cup 
milk, two tea-spoons baking-powder, flour enough to roll. — Mrs. 
Ennma G. Rea. 

Sand Tarts. 

Tw^o cups sugar, one of butter, three of flour, two eggs, leaving 
out the white of one ; roll out thin and cut in square cakes with a 
knife; spread the white of egg on top, sprinkle with cinnamon and 
sugar, and press a blanched almond or raisin in the center. — Miss 
Clara G. Phellis. 

Cocoa-nut Jumbles. 
Two cups sugar, one cup butter, two eggs, half a grated cocoa- 
nut ; make just stifl* enough to roll out ; roll thin. — Mrs. Ida M. 

Donaldson, Springdale, Col. 

Jumbles. 

One and a half cups white sugar, three-fourths cup butter, three 
eggs, three table-spoons sweet milk, half tea-spoon soda and one of 
cream tartar ; mix with suflicient flour to roll ; roll and sprinkle 
with sugar; cut out and bake. — 3frs. Mollie Filcher, Jackson, Mich. 



GIXGER-BREAD, 



99 



GINGER-BREAD. 



If in making ginger-bread the dough ])e('omes too stiff before it is 
rolled out, set it before the fire. Snaps will not be crisp if made on 
a rainy day. Ginger-bread and cakes require a moderate oven, 
snaps a quick one. If cookies or snaps become moist in keeping, 
put them in the oven and heat them for a few moments. Always 
use Xew Orleans or Porto Rico molasses, and never syrups. Soda 
is used to act on the ''spirit" of the molasses. In making the old- 
fashioned, soft, square cakes of ginger-bread, put a portion of the 
dough on a well-Houred tin sheet, roll evenly to each side, trim off 
evenly around the edges, and mark off in squares with a floured 
knife or wheel cutter. In this wav the doudi mav be softer than 
where it is necessary to pick up to remove from board after rolling 
and cuttino'. Alwavs have the board well covered with flour before 
rolling all kinds of soft ginger-breads, as they are liable to stick, and 
should always be mixed as soft as they can be handled. 

Alum Ginger-bread. 
Pint molasses, tea-cup melted lard, table-spoon ginger, table-spoon 
salt, tea-cup boiUng water; in half the water dissolve table-spoon 
pulverized alum, and in the other half a heaping table-spoon soda; 
stir in just flour enough to knead, roll about half inch thick, cut in 
oblong cards, and bake in a tolerably quick oven. — Mrs. Wm. 
Patrick, Midland, Mich. 

GlXGER-BREAD. 

One gallon molasses or strained honey, one and a quarter pounds 
butter, quarter pound soda stirred in a half tea-cup sweet milk, tea- 
spoon alum dissolved in just enough water to cover it, Hour to make 
it stiff enough to roll out ; put the molasses in a very large dish, 
add the soda and butter melted, then all tlie other ingredients ; mix 
in the evening and set in a warm place to rise over night ; in the 
morning knead it a long time like bread, roll into squares half an 
inch thick, and bake in bread-pans in an oven heated about right 
for bread. To make it glossy, rub over the top just before putting 



100 



GINGER-BREAD. 



it into the oven the following: One well-beaten egg, the same amount 
or a little more sweet cream, stirring cream and egg well together. 
This ginger-bread will keep an unlimited time. The recipe is com- 
plete without ginger, but two table-spoons may be used if preferred. 
— Over fijiij years old, and formerly used for general muster days. 

Excellent Soft Ginger-bread. 
One and a half cups Orleans molasses, half cup ])rown sugar, 
half cup butter, lialf cup sweet milk, tea-spoon soda, tea-spoon all- 
spice, half tea-spoon ginger ; mix all together thoroughly, add three 
cups sifted tlour and bake in shallow pans. — Mrs. S. Watson. 

Sponge. Ginger-bread. 
One cup sour milk, one of Orleans molasses, a half cup butter, 
two eggs, one tea-spoon soda, one table-spoon ginger, flour to make 
as thick as pound cake; put butter, molasses and ginger together, 
make them quite warm, add the milk, flour, eggs and soda, and 
bake as soon as possible. — Mrs. 31. 31. 3Iu}isell. 

Ginger Cookies. 
Two cups molasses, one of lard, one of sugar, two-thirds cup sour 
milk, table-spoon ginger, three tea-spoons soda stirred in the flour 
and one in the milk, two eggs. — 3Ilss Tina Lay, Clyde. 

Ginger Cookies. 
One egg, one cup sugar, one cup molasses, one table-spoon soda, 
one of vinegar, one of ginger ; roll thin and bake quickly. 

Ginger Cakes. 

One quart Orleans molasses, pint lard or butter, pint buttermilk, 
two table-spoons soda, two table-spoons ginger, flour enough to make 
a stiff* batter ; pour the molasses and milk boiling hot into a large 
tin bread-pan in which have been placed the ginger and soda (the 
pan must be large enough to prevent running over) ; stir in all the 
flour possible, after which stir in the lard or butter ; when cold, 
mold with flour and cut in cakes. Care must be taken to follow^ 
these directions implicitly or the cakes will not be good ; remember 
to add the lard or butter last, and buttermilk, not sour milk, must be 
used; boil the molasses in a skillet, and after pouring it into the 
pan, put the buttermilk in the same skillet, boil and pour it over 



GINGER'BBEAD. 



101 



the molasses, ginger and soda. This excellent recipe was kept as a 
secret for a long time by a professional baker. — Mrs. B. M. Hen- 
derson. 

Ginger Drop-Cakes. 
Take three eggs, one cup lard, one of baking molasses, one of 
brown sugar, one large table-spoon ginger, one table-spoon soda 
dissolved in a cup of boiling water, five cups unsifted flour; drop 
table-spoons of this mixture into a slightly greased dripping-pan 
about three inches apart. — Mrs. L. McAllister. 

Best Ginger-drops. 
Half cup sugar, a cup molasses, half cup butter, one tea-spoon 
each cinnamon, ginger and cloves, two tea-spoons soda in a cup 
boiling water, two and a half cups flour ; add two well-beaten eggs 
the last thmg before baking. Baked in gem-tins or as a common 
ginger-bread, and eaten warm with a sauce, they make a nice des- 
sert. — Mrs. C. Hawks, Goshen, Ind. 

Ginger-snaps. 

Tw^o cups molasses, one of lard, one table-spoon soda, one of 
ginger, flour to roll stifl*. — Miss Mary Galkigher. 

Ginger-snaps. 

One pound and six ounces flour, four of sugar, eight of butter, 
six of preserved orange peel, half pint of molasses, one tea-spoon 
soda dissolved in two table-spoons boiling water, one tea-spoon cloves, 
two of ginger. Soften the butter and mix it with the sugar and 
molasses, add the spices, orange peel and soda, beat well and stir in 
the flour, flour the board and roll the paste as thin as })ossible, cut 
in circles and bake in a very quick oven. This quantity makes 
one hundred and twenty-nine snaps, about three inches across. — In 
the Kitchen. 

Hotel Ginger-snaps. 
One gallon molasses, two pounds brown sugar, one quart melted 
butter, half cup each ground cloves, mace, cinnamon and ginger, 
one cup soda. — Mrs. Hattie Clemmons. 

Molasses Cake. 
One cup each of butter, sugar, sour milk and molasses, five cups 
flour, two eggs, one table-spoon soda, one of ginger. — Mrs. A. J. 
Palmes. 



CREAMS AND CUSTARDS. 



For creams and custards eggs should never l)e l^eaten in tin, but 
always in stone or earthen ware, as there is some chemical influence 
about tin which prevents their attaining that creamy lightness so 
desirable. Beat quickly and sharply right through the eggs, beat- 
ing whites and yidks separately. AVhen gelatine is used for creams, 
it is l)etter to soak it for an hour in a little cold water or milk, set 
in a warm place ; (it is convenient to place in a ])owl set in the 
top of the boiling tea-kettle to dissolve;) when dissolved, pour into 
the hot custard just after removing from the stove. For custards 
the common rule is four eggs, one cup sugar, and one small half 
tea-spoon salt to each quart of milk. Bake in a baking-dish until 
firm i«n the center, taking care that the heat is moderate or the 
custard will turn in part to whey. The delicacy of the custard 
depends on its being baked slowly. It is much nicer to strain the 
yolks, after thev are beaten, through a small wire strainer kept for 
this purpose by evei-y good housekeeper. For boiled custards or 
floats the yolks alone may be used, or for economy's sake the entire 
eggs. Always place the milk to boil in a custard-kettle (made of 
iron with another iron kettle inside, the latter lined with tin), or, 
in a pan or pail set within a kettle of boUinr/ water; when the milk 
reaches the boiling point, which is shown by a slight foam rising 
on top, add the sugar, which cools it so that the eggs will not curdle 
when added. Or, another convenient way is to mix the beaten 
and strained yolks with the sugar in a bowl, then add gradually 
several spoons of the boiling milk, until the eggs and sugar are 

(102) 



CREAMS AND CUSTARDS, 



103 



heated through, whe^n they may be slowly stirred into the boiling 
milk. Let remain a few moments, stirring constantly until it 
thickens a little, but not long enough to curdle, then either set the 
pail immediately in cold water or turn out into a cold dish, as it 
curdles if allowed to remain in a hot basin ; add flavoring extracts 
after removing from the stove. Peach leaves or vanilla beans give 
a fine flavor, f iii must be boiled in the milk and then taken out 
before the other ingredients are added. Boiled custards are very 
difficult to make, and must have the closest attention until they 
are finished. The custards may be prepared as above, mixing the 
milk, eggs and sugar, and then placing in pan to steam instead of 
boiling. 

In making charlotte -russe it is not necessary to add gelatine. 
The filling may be made of well- whipped cream, flavored and 
sweetened, using a 'Mvhi2)-churn " or the "Dover Egg-beater" to 
do the whipping. Fill the mold (which sliould be first wet with 
cold water for charlofte-russe and blanc mange, and all creams) 
and set on ice to harden. If .preferred, it may be made up in 
several small molds, one for each person. In the use of spices it 
is well to remember that allspice and cloves are used with meats, 
and nutmeirs and cinnamon in combination with sucrar. The wliite 
part of lemon rind is exceedingly bitter, and the outer peel only 
should be used for grating. A better way is to rub the rind ofi^ 
with hard lumps of sugar. The sugar thus saturated with the oil 
of the lemon is called zest," and is used, })0unded fine, for creams, 

etc. 

Bohemian Creams. 

One quart cream, two table-sjDOons sugar, one ounce gelatine 
soaked in water until dissolved ; whip half the cream (rich milk 
mav be substituted fi)r cream) to a stifl* froth : boil the other half 
with the sugar and a vanilla bean until a flavor is extracted (or 
vanilla extract may be added just after it is removed from the fire), 
take ofl* the fire, add the gelatine, and when cooled a little stir in 
the well-beaten yolks of the four eggs. As soon as it begins to 
thicken, stir steadily until smooth, when add the whipped cream, 
beating it in lightly. Mold and set on ice until ready to serve. 

To flavor with strawberries, strain two pounds berries through a 



104 



CREAMS AND CUSTARDS. 



colander, sweeten to taste, add to the dissolved gelatine, set on ice, 
and when it thickens stir until smooth, add the whipped cream as 
above, and mold. 

To flavor with peach, boil a dozen and a half choice fruit, sweeten 
and strain through a colander ; add the dissolved gelatine and a tea- 
cup of cream, set on ice, and when it thickens stir until smooth, 
add the whipped cream, and mold. 

To flavor with pine-apple, cut fine, boil with half a pound pul- 
verized sugar, strain through a colander, add the dissolved gela- 
tine, set on ice, and when it thickens stir until smooth, add the 
whipped cream, and mold. Canned pine-apples may be used in- 
stead of fresh. In all these never add whipped cream until the 
mass is cool and begins to thicken. — Mrs, W. R. Jones, Pittsburgh^ Pa, 

Charlotte-Russe. 
Cut stale sponge-cake into slices about half an inch thick and 
line three molds with them, leaving a space of half an inch be- 
tween each slice ; set the molds where they will not be disturbed 
until the filling is ready ; take a deep tin pan and fill about one- 
third full of either snow or pounded ice, and into this set another 
pan that Avill hold at least four quarts. Into a deep bowd or pail 
(a whi|>churn is better) put one and a half pints of cream (if the 
cream is thick take one pint of cream and a half pint of milk), 
whip to a froth, and when the bowd is full, skim the froth into the 
pan which is standing on the ice, and repeat this until the cream is 
all froth ; then with the spoon draw the froth to one side, and you 
will find that some of the cream has gone back to milk ; turn 
this into the bowd again, and whip as before; when the cream is 
all whipped, stir into it two-thirds cup powdered sugar, one tea- 
spoon vanilla, and half a box gelatine, which has been soaked in 
cold water enough to cover it for one hour and then dissolved in 
boiling Avater enough to dissolve it (about half a cup), stir from the 
bottom of the pan until it begins to grow stifi*; fill the molds and 
set them on the ice in the pan for one hour, or until they are sent 
to the table. When ready to dish them, loosen lightly at the sides 
and turn out on a flat dish ; have the cream ice-cold wdien vou be- 
gin to whip it, and it is a good plan to put a lump of ice into the 
cream while whipping it. — M. Parloa. 



CREAMS AyD CUSTARDS, 



105 



Ch ARLOTTE-RUSSE . 

Split two dozen lady-fingers (slices of sponge or otlier cake may- 
be used), lay them in a mold, put one-third of a box of gelatine 
into half pint of milk, place it where it will be warm enough to 
dissolve. Whip three pints of cream to a froth, and keep it cool, 
beat the yolks of three eggs, and mix with half pound powdered 
sugar, then beat the whites very stiti', and add to it, strain the gela- 
tine upon these, stirring quickly ; then add the cream, flavor with 
vanilla or lemon, pour over the cake, let stand upon ice two hours. 
Serve wdth whipped cream. Some add a layer of jelly at bottom 
of mold. — Mrs. Ida 31. Donaldson, Springdale, Col. 

Charlotte-Russe. 
One ounce gelatine dissolved in two gills of boiling milk, whites 
(rf four eggs beaten to a stiff froth, one and a half cups white pow- 
dered sugar, one pint thick cream whipped to a froth, and rose-water 
or vanilla for flavoring ; line a large mold with thick slices of sponge- 
cake, mix the gelatine, sugar, cream and flavoring together, add 
lightly the frothed whites of the eggs, pour into mold, set away on 
ice till required for use. This is an easy and excellent mode of 
making this most delicate dessert.— 3/r8. V. G. Hush, Minneapolis, 
Minn. 

Hamburg Cream. 
Stir together the rind and juice of two large lemons, and one cup 
sugar, add the well-beaten yolks of eight eggs ; put all in a tin pail, 
set in a pot of boiling water, stir for three minutes, take from the 
fire, add the well-beaten whites of the eggs, and serve, when cold, 
in custard-glasses. — 3frs. G. Fidlincjton. 

Italian Crea3i. 
Soak one-third box gelatine half an hour in cold milk, put a quart 
milk on to boil, and when boiling stir in yolks of eight eggs well 
beaten, add one cup and a half of sugar and the gelatine; when the 
custard begins to thicken, take it off and pour into a deep dish in 
which the eight whites have been beaten to a stifl' froth ; mix well 
together and flavor to taste; put in molds, and allow four hours to 
cool. This cream is much more easily made in winter than in sum- 
mer. — Mrs. N. P. Wiles, Ripley. 



106 



CREAMS AND CUSTARDS. 



Rock Ckeam. 

Boil one cup rice in a custiird-kettle in sweet milk until soft, add 
two table-spoons loaf-sugar, a salt-spoon salt ; pour into a dish and 
place on it lumps of jelly ; beat tiie whites of five eggs and three 
table-spoons ])ulverized sugar to a stiff froth, flavor to taste, add one 
table-spoon rich cream, and drop the mixture on the rice. — Miss 
Lihhie S. Wilcox, Madison. 

Easpberry Cream. 
One quart good cream, one pint fresh raspberries ; mash and rub 
the fruit through a fine sieve or strainer, to extract the seeds, bring 
the cream to a boil (having reserved one pint for froih), and add it 
to the berries while it remains hot, sweeten with pov>dered sugar to 
taste, let it become cold. Xow raise cream which has been reserved 
to a frorh v, ith a beater, take off the froth and lay it on a sieve to 
drain ; fill di>h or glasses with the cream and 2:>lace froth on top. 
Very nice. Any kind of berries, jam or jelly is good, and can be 
used without straining. 

Spanish Cream. 
One box Coxe's gelatine dissolved in a pint of cold milk ; into tw^o 
quarts boiling milk stir one and a half cups sugar and the yolks 
of eight eggs ; pour all upon the dissolved gelatine, stirring well. 
Wlien cool add half a pint wine, or flavor with lemon or vanilla, 
place in dishes and cover with a meringue made of the beaten 
whites, the juice of one lemon, and one cup sugar; brown in oven 
two minutes and eat ice-cold. — Susan R. Howard, Brooklyn, Xeiv 
York. 

Tapioca Cream. 
Soak ()ver night two table-spoons tapioca in one-half tea-cup milk 
(or enough to cover); bring one quart milk to boiling point; beat 
well together the yolks of three eggs, half tea-cup sugar, and one 
tea-spoon lemon or vanilla for flavoring, add the tai)ioca, and stir 
the wliolo into the boiling milk, let boil once, turn into the dish, 
and iminevliateiy spread on the whites. Serve when cold. — 2Irs.^R. 
M. He}iderson. 

Whipped Cream. 
Place cream over ice until thoroughly chilled, and whip with an 
egg-beater or whip-churn until it froths. While whipping place 



CREAMS AND CUSTARDS. 



107 



froth on a sieve, and return to bowl to be re-whipped all that passes 
through. When cream is difficult to whip, add to it and beat with 
it the white of an egg. Sweetened and flavored this is a choice 
dessert alone, but it may be served in various ways. Baked apples, 
and fresh or preserved l)erries are delicious with it. Jelly-glasses, 
one-third full of jelly and filled up with cream, make a very whole- 
some and delicious dessert. 

Whipped CpvEam. 
One and one-half pints good rich cream sweetened and flavored 
to taste, three tea-spoons vanilla ; whip to a stitf froth. Dissolve 
three-fourths ounce best gelatine in a small tea-cup hot water, and 
when cool pour into the cream ; stir thoroughly, pour in molds and 
set on ice, or in very cool place. — Emma Craig, Washi7ig' 
ton, D. C. 

Apple Custard. 
One pint of mashed stewed apples, one pint sweet milk, four eggs, 
one cup sugar and a little nutmeg; bake slowly . —iirs. G. IF. 
Hensel, Quarryville Pa. 

Apple Snow. 

Pare, core and bring to boil in as little water as possible six tart 
apples, cool and strain, beat well and add the well-whipped whites 
of three eggs, sweeten to taste and beat thoroughly until a dish of 
snow is the result, flavor with lemon or vanilla, or add the grated 
rind of a lemon ; serve with sweetened cream. Or, make custard of 
yolks, sugar, and a phit milk, place in ;i dish, and drop the froth 
on it in large flakes. — Mrs. T. J. Buxton, Minneapolis, Minn. 

Blanc-Maxge. 

Dissolve three heaping table-spoons corn starch and three of sugar 
in one pint of milk ; add to this three eggs well beaten, and pour 
the mixture into one pint of boiling milk, stirring constantly until 
it boils a(>-ain ; iust before taking from the stove flavor to suit the 
taste and pour into cups or small molds ; when cool take out and 
place on a glass dish with a mold of jelly in the center. Serve a 
spoon of jelly and a sauce of sweetened cream with each mold. Or, 
put one quart milk Treserving three table sp(K)ns with which mix 
three heaping table-spoons corn-starch) with a pinch of salt and five 



108 



CREAMS AND CUSTARDS. 



table-spoons sugar. When milk is hot, pour in the mixed corn- 
starch, and stir until it is a thick batter ; pour this on the well- 
beaten whites of four eggs, add two tea-spoons vanilla, pour into 
molds wet in cold water, and set on ice ; when cold, turn from the 
mold, and serve in a custard made as follow^s : Put one pint milk in 
a basin over boiling water, mix in a tea-cup two even tea-spoons 
corn-starch in two of cold milk, beat in the four yolks of eggs and 
two and a half table-spoons of sugar. When the milk is hot pour 
part of it into the cup and stir well, pour it back into the basin and 
stir until as thick as desired ; put on ice until chilled thoroughly, 
Blanc-mange may be colored green w^th spinage juice, or pink with 
the juice of strawberry, currant or cranberry, or a handsome yellow 
with the grated peel of an orange or lemon, moistened with the 
juice and strained through a cloth. Very pretty half-pint molds 
may be made as follows : Tilt the mold in a pan of snow or pounded 
ice, color one-fourth the blanc-mange pink, another fourth green ; 
wet the molds and pour into them a little of the colored blanc- 
mange, putting only one color into each mold and filling it so that 
when tilted the blanc-mange reaches nearly to the top and covers 
about tw^o-thirds of the bottom ; wdien cold set mold level, and fill 
with the white blanc-mange, which has, meantime, been kept in so 
warm a place as not to harden. If the molds are made to imitate 
roses or fruit, the fruit may be green, and roses pink ; if corn, yel- 
low ; and various ways of combining colors and forms will suggest 
themselves to the ingenious housewife. 

Chocolate Blaxc-Mange. 
Half box gelatine, soaked till dissolved in as much cold water as 
w^ill cover it, four ounces sweet chocolate grated, one quart sweet 
milk, one cup sugar; boil milk, sugar and chocolate five minutes, 
add gelatine, and lx)il five minutes more, stirring constantly; flavor 
with vanilla, put in molds to cool and eat with cream. If wanted 
for tea, make in the morning; if for dinner, the night before. For 
a plain blanc-mange omit the chocolate. — Mrs. Dr. Houston, Urhana. 

Raspberry Blanc-Mange. 
Stew^ nice fresh raspberries, strain off' the juice and sweeten it to 
taste, place over the fire, and when it boils stir in corn starch w^et 



CREAMS AND CUSTARDS. 



109 



in cold water, allowing two table-spoons of corn starch for each pint 
of juice ; continue stirring until sufficiently cooked, pour into molds 
wet in cold water and set away to cool ; eat with cream and sugar. 
Other fruit can be used instead of raspberries. — Mrs. J, P. Rea, 
MiniieapoUs, Minn. 

Boiled Custard. 

One quart milk, two table-spoons corn starch, two eggs, one-fourth 
tea-spoon salt, butter size of a hickory-nut ; wet the starch in a little 
of the milk, heat the remainder to near boiling, in a tin pail set in 
a pot of boiling water. The proper heat will be indicated by a froth 
or film rising to the top ; add the starch till it thickens, stirring con- 
stantly, then add the eggs well-beaten with four table-spoons of 
sugar, 'let it cook, stirring briskly, take off and beat well; flavor; 
served with grated cocoa-nut it is elegant. 

Chocolate Custard. 

Break two sections chocolate in a half-dozen pieces, put it in a 
pan over boiling water, with milk enough to barely cover it ; mash 
and stir perfectly smooth, then add the rest of the milk (one quart 
in all, reserving three table-spoons in which to dissolve the corn 
starch',) one cup sugar, yolks of six eggs, a heaping table-spoon corn 
starch ; beat the yolks, add the sugar and corn starch (dissolved in 
milk), stir all slowly in the boiling milk, in which the chocolate is 
dissolved, add a pinch of salt, and let cook a few minutes, stirring 
constantly; eat cold with white cake.— M.ss Bmiiw Johnsmi. 

Floating Island. 
Make a custard of the yolks of six eggs, one quart milk, a small 
pinch of salt, sugar to taste ; beat and strain yolks before adding to 
the milk ; place custard in a large tin pan, and set in stove, stirring 
mnstanthj until it boils, then remove, flavor with lemon or rose, and 
pour into a dish (a shallow, wide one is best), spread smoothly over 
the boiling hot custard the well-beaten whites, grating some loaf- 
sucrar (some add grated cocoa-ntit) on the top. Set the dish in a 
pan of ice-water and serve cold. Some prepare the whites by placing 
a table-spoon at a time on boiling water, lifting them out carefully, 
when cooked, with a skimmer and laying them gently on the float. 
This is the ''old reliable recipe."— 3frs. W. W. W. 



110 



CREAMS AND CUSTABDS. 



Good Baked Custard. 
Eight well-beaten eggs, leaving two whites for the top, three pints 
milk ; sweeten and flavor to taste ; ])ake for two hours in a slow oven. 
Beat the reserved whites to stiff froth with two table-spoons sugar, 
spread over the top and return to oven to brown. 

Gelatine Custard. 
To one-third package Coxe"s gelatine, add a little less than one 
pint boiling w\ater ; stir until gelatine is dissolved, add the juice of 
one lemon, and one and a half cups sugar; strain through a jelly- 
strainer into dish for the table, and set in a cool place. For custard, 
to one and a half pints milk add the yolks of four eggs (reserving 
the whites), and four table-spoons sugar; cook and flavor when cook 
When required for the table, cut gelatine into small squares, and 
over them pour the custard. Add four table-spoons powdered suc-ar 
to the whites of four eggs well beaten, and when ready for the 
table place over the custard with a spoon.— W. A. James. 

Lemon Custard. 
Beat the yolks of eight eggs till they are white, add pint boiling 
water, the rinds of two lemons grated, and the juice sweetened to 
taste; stir this on the fire till it thickens, then add a large glass of 
rich wine, and one-half glass brandy ; give the whole a good boil, 
and put in glasses. To be eaten cold. Or, put the thin yellow 
rind of two lemons, with the juice of three, and sugar to taste, into 
one pint of warm water. As lemons vary in size and juiciness, the 
exact quantity of sugar can not be given. Ordinary lemons re- 
quires three gills. It will be safe to begin with that quantity, more 
may be added if required. Beat the whites to a stiffs froth, then 
the yolks ; then beat both together, pour in gradually while beat- 
ing the other ingredients; put all in a pail, set in a pot of boiling 
water, and stir until thick as boiled custard ; strain it in a deep 
dish; when cool place on ice. Serve in glasses.— Belle R. 
Liggett, Detroit, Mi<th, 

Snow Custard. 

^ Half a package of Coxe's gelatine, three eggs, two cups of sugar, 
juice of one lemon ; soak the gelatine one hour in a tea-cup of cold 
water, add one pint boiling water, stir until thoroucrhlv dissolved 



CREAMS AXD CUSTARDS. 



Ill 



add two-thiiTb of the sugar and the lemon juice; beat the whites of 
the eggs to a stiff froth, and when the gelatine is quite cold, w^hip 
it into the whites, a spoonful at a time, from half an hour to an 
hour. Whip steadily and evenly, and when all is stiff, pour in a 
mold, or in a dozen egg-glasses previously wet with cold water, and 
set in a cold place. In four or five hours turn into a glass dish. 
Make a custard of one and one-half pints milk, yolks of eggs, and 
remainder of the sugar, flavor with vanilla, and when the meringue 
or snow-bnlls aro turned out of the mold, pour this around the 
base.— -J//'8 Ctov. Tfiayer, Wyoming Territory, 

Moonshine. 

This dessert (-ombines a pretty appearance with palatable flavor, 
and is a convenient substitute for ice-cream. Beat the whites of six 
eggs in a broad plate to a very stiff froth, then add gradually six 
table-spoons po^vdereu sugar (to make it thicker use more sugar up 
to a pint), beating for not less than thirty minutes, and then beat 
in about one hea})ing table-spcfon of preserved peaches cut in tiny 
bits (or some use one cup jelly), and set on ice until thoroughly 
chilled. In serving, pour in each saucer some rich cream sweetened 
and flavored with vanilla, and on the cream place a liberal portion 
of the moonshine. This quantity is enough for seven or eight per- 
sons. — Mrs. H. C. Meredith, Cambridge City, Ind. 

Orangp: Float. 
One quart water, the juice and ptdp of tv/o lemons, one coffee- 
cup sugar ; whQn boiling, add four table-spoons corn starch, let boil 
fifteen minutes, stirring all the time ; when cold pour it over four 
or five peeled and sliced oranges, and over the top spread the beaten 
whites of three eggs ; sweeten and add a few drops of vanilla. — 
Mrs. Wm. Skinner. 

Hidden INIountain. 
Six eggs, a few slices citron, sugar to taste, three-quarters of a 
pint of cream, a layer of any kind of jam ; beat the whites and 
yolks of the eggs separately, then mix and beat again, adding the 
citron, the cream and stigar ; when well beaten put in a buttered 
pan and fry, cover with the jam and garnish with slices of citron ; 
to be eaten cold. — Mrs. J. C. Gould. 



112 



CREAMS AND CUSTARDS. 



Orange Souffle. 

Peel and slice six oranges, put in a high glass dish a layer of 
oranges, then one of sugar, and so on until all the orange is used, 
and let stand two hours ; make a soft lx)iled custard of the yolks 
of three eggs, one pint of milk, sugar to taste, with grating of the 
orange peel for flavor, and pour over the oranges w^hen cool enough 
not to break the dish ; beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, 
stir in sugar, and put over the pudding. Praised by all. — 3frs. 
Mary A. Livermore^ Melrose, Mass. 

Prune Whip. 

Sweeten to taste and stew three-quarters of a pound of prunes ; 
when perfectly cold, add the w^hites of four eggs beaten stiff ; stir all 
of this together till light, put in a dish, and bake twenty minutes; 
when cold, serve in a larger dish, and cover well with good cream. 
• — Mrs. Belle E. Liggett, Detroit, Mich. 



CONFECTIONERY. 



There are very few modern kitchens in which some cookino; uten- 
sil may not be found convenient for making candy. A sauce-pan 
of tinned iron, with a handle and flaring sides, and a lip to facilitate 
the pouring of the contents, will be found best adapted to such use ; 
or a small iron or ])rass kettle will do if kept quite dean. 

Dissolve f )ur pounds white sugar in one quart water ; place this 
in a porcelain kettle over a slow fire for half an hour, pour into it 
a small quantity of gelatine and gum-arabic dissolved together ; all 
the impurities which rise to the surface skim off at once. Instead 
of gelatine and gum-arabic, the white of an egg may be used as a 
substitute with good results. To make the clarifying process still 
more perfect, strain through a flannel bag. To make rock candy, 
boil this syrup a few moments, allv)w to cool, and crystallization 
takes place on the sides of the vessel. To make other candies, 
bring the syrup very carefully to such a degree of heat that the 

threads," which drop from the spoon when raised into the colder 
air, will snap like glass. When this stage is reached, add a tea- 
spoon of vinegar or cream tartar to prevent "^graining," and pour 
into pans as directed in the recipes which follow. To make round 
stick candies, pull, and roll into shape with well-floured hands as 
soon as cool enough to be handled. In pulling candy, some grease 
the hands, others flour them slightly. Colored candies are often 
injurious, and sometimes even poisonous, and should be avoided. 

In baking macaroons and kisses, use washed butter for greasing 
the tins, as lard or salt butter gives an unpleasant taste. Bake in 

^ (113) 



114 



CONFECTIONER Y. 



a moderate oven, or let dry in a cool oven for two hours. After 
buttering, sprinkling lightly with flour and then shaking it off, is 
an excellent way to prepare the pan. When powdered almonds 
are to be used, they should be thoroughly dried in an open oven, 
after blanching, and they will pulverize more easily. In making 
macaroons or drops, or pulling butter-scotch or tafiy, grease hands 
lightly with butter to prevent sticking. Flouring the hands is apt 
to give an unpleasant taste to candy. 

Almond Macaroons. 
Pour boiling water on half a pound almonds, take skins off and 
throw into cold water for a few moments, then tiike out and pound 
(adding a table-spoon essence lemon) to a smooth paste, add one 
pound of pulverized sugar and whites of three eggs, and work the 
paste well together with back of spoon ; dip the hands in water and 
roll mixture int(^ balls the size of a nutmeg, and lay on buttered 
paper an inch apart ; when done, dip the hands in water and pass 
gentlv over the macaroons, making the surface smooth and shining; 
set in a cool oven three-quarters of an hour. If this recipe is 
strictly followed, the macaroons will be found equal to any made 
by professional confectioners. — Mrs. L. S. W. 

Butter-Scotch. 
Three pounds "coffee A" sugar, fourth pound butter, half tea- 
spoon cream tartar, eight drops extract of lemon ; add as much 
cold w\ater as will dissolve the sugar ; boil without stirring till it 
will easily break when dropped in cold water, and when done, add 
the lemon; have a dripping-pan well buttered and pour in one- 
fourth inch thick, and when partly cold, mark off in squares. If 
pulled, when partly cold, till very white, it will be like ice-cream 
candy. — Mrs. J. S. R. 

Buckeye Kisses. 
Beat the whites of four small eggs to a high, firm froth, stir into 
it half a pound pulverized sugar, flavor with essence lemon or rose, 
continue to beat until very light ; then drop half the size of an egg, 
and a little more than an inch a]:mrt, on well-buttered lettef-paper ; 
lay the paper on a half-inch board and place in a moderate oven ; 
watch, and as soon as they begin to look yellowish take them out ; 



CONFECTIOyER Y. 



115 



or, beat to a stiff froth the whites of two eggs, stirring into them 
very gradually two tea-cups powdered sugar and two table-spoons 
corn starch; bake on buttered tins fifteen minutes in a warm oven, 
or until slightly brown. Chocolate pufi's are made by adding two 
ounces m-ated chocolate mixed with the coi'u starch. — Mrs. W. W. W. 

Candy of any Flavor. 
Three and a half pounds refined sugar, one and a half pints 
water, (^ne tea-spo(3n cream tartar ; mix in a vessel large enough to 
hold the candy when expanded ])y the heat ; boil over a brisk fire, 
taking care that it does not burn. The heat should be applied at 
bottom and not at the sides. After boiling fifteen minutes, remove 
a small portion of the melted sugar with a spoon, and cool by 
placing in a saucer set in cold water. When cool enougli, take a 
portion between thumb and finger, and if it forms a "string" or 
"thread" as tiiey are separated, the process is nearly done, and 
great care must be used to control the heat so that the boiling may 
be kept up without burning. Test frequently hy dropping a bit into 
cold water placed near; if it becomes hard and brittle, snapping 
apart when l)ent, it is done and must be removed at once, and the 
flavoring stirred in. Then pour into shallow earthen dishes, thor- 
oughly but lightly gi-eased, and cooled until it can be handled ; 
pull, roll into sticks or make into any desired shape. 

Centennial Drops. 
White of one egg l^eaten to a stiff froth, quarter pound pulver- 
ized sugar, half tea-spo(m baking-powder; flavor with lemon; butter 
tins and drop with tea-spoon about three inches apart ; bake in a 
slow oven and serve with ice-cream. This is also a very nice recipe 
for icing. — AJirr Trimble, Mt. Gilead, Ohio. 

Chocolate Caramels. 
One cup of chocolate shaved fine, one cup molasses, half cup 
milk, one cup sugar; when nearly done add a piece of butter size 
of a walnut. Stir until perfectly dissolved, but not after it begins 
to boil, as that will make it grain. It is done when it hardens and 
becomes brittle when dropped in cold water, but do not make too 
hard. Grease plates with butter, pour it on about half an inch 
thick, when nearly cool cut with a greased knife into small squares. 



116 



CONFECTIONER Y. 



Chocolate Caramels. 
One jind a half cups grated chocohxte, four of brown sugar, one 
and a half of cold water, piece of butter size of an egg, table-spoon 
of very sharp vinegar ; flavor with two table-spoons vanilla just 
before removing from fire. Do not stir, but shake the vessel gently 
while cooking. Boil on the top of stove over a brisk fire until it 
becomes brittle when tried in water; pour into a well buttered and 
floured dripping-pan, and check ofl* in squares while soft. — M'm 
Emma Collins, Urbana. 

Chocolate Drops. 
Two and a half cups pulverized or granulated sugar (or maple 
sugar may be used), one-half cup cold water; boil four minutes, 
place the sauce-pan in cold water, and beat till cold enough to make 
into little balls; take half a cake of Baker's chocolate, shave ofi' 
fine and set it in a bowl set in top of boiling tea-kettle to melt, and 
when balls are cool en(3Ugh, roll in the chocolate with a fork. . This 
makes eighty. Or while makinir into balls, mold an almond-meat 
into the center of each ball, roll in coarse sugar, and you have deli- 
cious "cream almonds." Or, mold the unl^roken halves of waliuit- 
ineats into the soft sugar, and when cold, roll in the chocolate. 
When finished, take out and lay on buttered paper until cold. — 
3Irs. 0. M Scott. 

Cocoa-nut Caramels. 

One pint milk, l)utter size of an egg, one cocoa-nut grated fine 
(or dessicated cocoa-nut may be used), three pounds white sugar, 
two tea-spoons lemon, boil slowiy until stiflT (some then beat to a 
cream), pour into shallow pans, and when partly cold cut in squares. 
Miss Nettie Bin ester, Madison. 

Cocoa-nut Drops. 

One pound cocoa-nut, half pound powdered sugar, and the white 
of an egg ; work all together and roll into little balls in the hand ; 
bake on buttered tins. — C. W. Cyphers, Minneapolis, Mini.. 

EvERTON Ice-cream Candy. 
Squeeze the juice of one large lemon into a cup. Boil one and 
one-half pounds moist wdiite sugar, two ounces butter, one and a 
half tea-cups water, together with half the rind of the lemon, and 
when done (which may be known by its becoming quite crisp when 



CONFECTIONER Y. 



117 



dropped into cold water) set aside till the boiling has ceased, and 
then stir in the juice of the lemon, butter a dish and pour in about 
an inch thick. When cool take out peel (which may be dried), 
pull until w^hite, draw out into sticks and check about four inches 
long with a knife. If you have no lemons, take two table-spoons 
vinegar and two tea-spoons lemon extract = The fire must be quick 
and the candy stirred all the time. — Jlrs. J. S. R. 

Hickory- NUT Macaroons. 
Take meats of hickory -nuts, pound fine and add mixed ground 
spice and nutmeg ; make frosting as for cakes, stir meats and spices 
in, putting in enough to make it convenient to handle ; fiour the 
hands and make the mixture into balls the size of nutmegs, lay them 
on buttered tins, giving room to spread, and bake in a quick oven. 
These are delicious. — Mrs. Walter Mitchell, Galli polls, Ohio. 

Hickory-nut Cakes. 

One egg, half cup flour, a cup sugar, a cup nuts sliced fine ; drop 
on buttered tins one tea-spoonful in a pLace, two inches apart. Or, 
roll and bake like sand tarts. — Mrs. Lamb, Bellejontaine, Ohio. 

HoREHOUND Candy. 

Boil two ounces of dried horehound in a pint and a half water for 
about half an liour ; strain and add three and a half pounds brown 
sugar. Boil over a h(>t fire until it is sufiiciently hard, pour out in 
flat, well-grcased tin trays, and mark into sticks or small squares 
with a knife, as soon as it is cool enough to retain its shape. 

Lemon Candy. 

Take a pound loaf-sugar and a large cup water, and after cooking 
over a slow fire half an hour, clear Avith a little hot vinegar, take 
ofl* the scum as it rises, testing by raising with a spoon, and when 
the threads" will snap like glass pour into a tin pan, and when 
nearly cold mark in narrow strips with a knife. Before pouring into 
the pans, chopped cocoa-nut, almonds, hickory-nuts, or Brazil-nuts 
cut in slices, n.av be stirred into it. — Mrs. V. K. M. 

Meringues. 

One pound granulated sugar, whites of nine eggs. Whip eggs 
until dish can be inverted without their falling ofi', and then sini})ly 
add the sugar, incorporating it thoroughly, but stirring as little as 



118 



CONFECTIONER Y. 



possible. Prepare boards three-fjurths of an inch thick, to fit oven, 
ami cover them with strips of lieavy brown paper about two and 
a half inches wide ; on these drop the mixture from the end of a 
dessert-spoon (nr use the meringue-bag described in recipe for lady's 
fingers), giving the meringue the form of an egg, and dropping them 
about two inciies apart on the paper, and bake till a light brown. 
Take up each strip of paper by the two ends, turn it gently on the 
table, and witli a small spoon take out the soft part of each me- 
ringue, sti-ew over them some sifted sugar, and return to oven bot- 
tom side up to brown. These shells may be kept for weeks. When 
wanted for table, fill with whipped cream, place two of them together 
so as to inclose the cream, and serve. To vary their appearance, 
finely-chop})ed almonds or currants may be strewn over them before 
the sugar is sprinkled over, and they may be garnished with any 
bright-coltjred preserve. Great expedition is necessary in making 
them, as, if the meringues are not put into the oven as soon as the 
sugar and eggs are mixed, the former melts, and the mixture runs 
on the paper instead of keeping egg-shape. The sweeter the me- 
ringues are made the crisper will they ])e ; but if there is not suffi- 
cient sugar added they will be tough. — J/? s.^ Sarah GUI, Columbus, 0. 

Molasses Candy. 

Take equal quantities brown sugar and Orleans molasses (or all 
molasses may be used), and one table-spoon sharp vinegar, and when 
it beirins to boil skim well and strain, return to the kettle and con- 
tinue boiling until it becomes brittle if dipped in cold water, then 
pour on a greased platter. When cool enough, begin to throw up 
the edges and work, by pulling until bright and glistening like 
gold ; flour the hands occasiomdly, draw into stick size, rolling to 
keep round, until pulled out and cold. With a greased knife press 
nearly through them at proper lengths, and they will easily snap ; 
flavor just l^efore pouring out to cool. — Steding Eohi)ison. 

Aunt Top's Xut-Taffy. 

Two pints maple sugar, half pint water, or just enough to dis- 
solve sugar; boil until it becomes brittle by dro})])ing in cold water; 
just before pouring out add a tablespoon vinegar ; having prepared 
the hickory-nut meats, in halves, butter well the pans, line with the 
meats, and pour the taffy over them. — EdeUe and Hattie Hmh. 



CANNING FRUITS 



Cleanse the cans thoroughly and test to see if any leak or are 
cracked. If tin cans leak, send them to the tinner; if discolored 
inside they may be lined with writing-paper ju>t before using. In 
buying stoneware for canning purposes, be sure that it is well glazed, 
as fruits canned in jars or jugs imperfectly glazed sometimes become 
poisonous. Never use defective glass cans, but keep them for storing 
things in the pantry; and in buying them, take care that they are 
free from flaws and blisters, else the glass will crumble off in small 
particles when subjected to heat. Self-sealers are very convenient, 
but the heat liardens the rubber rings, which are difficult to re- 
place, so that in a year or two they are unfit for use. For this 
reason many prefer those with a groove around the top for sealing 
with wax or putty. The latter is very convenient, as jars sealed 
with it can be opened readily with a strong fork or knife, and are 
much more easily cleaned than when wax-sealed. Putty may be 
bou'dit readv for use, and is soon made soft bv molding in the 
hand. In using it should be worked out into a small roll, and 
pressed firndy into the groove with a knife, care being taken to 
keep it well pressed down as the can cooL^. In canning, provide 
a wide-mouthed funnel (made to set into the can), and pour the 
fruit into a funnel from a briglit tin dip})er (if old or rusty it will 
discolor the fruit) or a small pitcher, heated l^efore putting in the 
hot fruit to prevent breaking. Pour fi uit as quickly as possible, 
and screw down top immediately. 

Fruit should be selected carefully, and all that is imperfect re- 
jected. Large fruits, such as i)eaches, i)eai-s, etc., are in the best 

(119) 



120 



CANNING FRUITS. 



condition to can when not quite fully ripe, and should be put up 
as soon as possible after picking ; small fruits, such as berries, 
should never stand over night if it is possible to avoid it. The 
highest-flavored and longest-keeping fruits are best put up without 
paring, after having carefully removed the down with a fine but 
stiff brush. Use only the best sugar in the propoi-tion of half a 
pound of sugar to a pound of good fruit, varying the rule, of course, 
with the sweetness of the fruit. Or, in canning for pies omit sugar, 
as the natural flavor is better preserved without it, and some prefer 
this method for all purposes. It is economical, and well worthy of 
experiment. Cans put up in this way should have a special mark so 
as to distinguish them from the rest. When ready to can, first place 
the jars (glass) in a large pan of warm water on the back of the stove, 
make ready the syrup in a nice clean porcelain kettle, add the fruit 
— it is better to prepare only enough fruit or syrup for two or three 
cans at a time — and by the time it is done, the water in the pan 
will be hot and the cans ready for use. Take them out of the 
water and set them on a hot platter, which answers the double pur- 
pose of preventing their contact with any cold surface like the table, 
and saving any fruit that may be spoiled. Fill as full as possible, 
and set aside where no current of air will strike them ; or, better, 
wring out a towel wet in hot water and set them on it ; let stand a 
moment or tw^o or until wiped off, when the fruit will have shrunk 
away a little; fill up again witii hot syrup, or if you have none, 
boiling water from the tea-kettle will do, and then seal. In can- 
ning peaches, the flavor is improved by adding two or three whole 
peaches, or dropping in the center of the can a few of the stones. 
For peaches, pears and berries, some sweeten as for eating, let 
stand until sugar is dissolved (using no water), place on stove in 
porcelain kettle and keep at boiling point long enough to heat the 
fruit, and then can in glass jars as directed. 

There are several other ways of pre])aring glass cans for fruit, 
among them the f)llowing: Wring a towel from cold water, double 
and wrap closely about and under the can so as to exclude the air, 
and put a cold silver spoon inside and fill ; or, put a towel in a 
steamer, set in the cans, and place over a kettle of coJd water, boil 
the w^ater, and when ready to fill, remove tlie cans and wrap in a 



CAXNING FRUITS. 



121 



towel wrung from warm water, put a table-spoon rinsed in hot 
water inside, and fill; or, wash the cans in tepid water, place an 
iron rod inside, and at once pour in the l)oiliiig fruit, but not too 
fast. In using glass cans with tops which screw on, be sure that 
the rubbers are hrni and close-fitting, and throw away all that are 
imperfect. AVhen the can is filled to overflowing, put on the top 
at once and screw down tightly, and as the fruit and cans cool, 
causing contraction of the glass, turn down again and again until 
perfectly air-tight. Wrap as soon as cold with brown wrapping- 
paper, unless the fruit-closet is very dark. Light injures all 
fruit, but especially tomatoes, in which it causes the f )rmation of 
citric acid, which no amount of sugar will sweeten. The place 
where canned fruits are kept should also be dry and cool, for if 
too warm the fruit will spoil. In canning, use a porcelain-lined 
kettle, silver fork or broom splint and wire spoon or dipper; 
a steel fork discolors the fruit. 

Cans should be examined two or three days after filling, and if 
syrup leaks out from the rim, they should be unsealed, the fruit 
thoroughly cooked and kept for jam or jelly, as it will have lost 
the delicacv ot color and flavor so desirable in canned fruits. Pint 
cans are better for berries than quart. Strawberries keep their 
color best in stone jars; if glass cans are used for them, they should 
be buried in sand. If syrup is left after canning berries, it may, 
while thin, be flavored with vinegar, boiled a moment, and then 
bottled arid corked fur a drink mixed with ice-water. 

In using self-sealing cans the rubber ring must show^ an even 
edge all round, for if it shps back out of sight at any point, air 
will be admitted. On opening tin cans, remember to pour all the 
fruit out into an earthen or glass dish. If any part is not used at 
the time, re-cook, and return to dish, and it will keep for a day or 
two, many of the less perishable fruits longer. Wines, cider, shrubs, 
etc., must be bottled, well corked, sealed, and the bottles placed on 
their sides in a box of sand or sawdust. To can maple syrup, pour 
hot into cans or jugs, and seal well. 

The fine display of canned fruits at the Centennial Exhibition 
was prepared as follows: The fruits were selected with great care, 
of uniform size and shape, and all pprfecf. They were carefully 



122 



CANNING FR UITS. 



peeled with a thin, sharp, silver fruit-knife, which did not discolor 
them, and immediately plunged into cold water in an earthen or 
wooden vessel to prevent the air from darkening them. As soon 
as enough for one can was prepared, it was put up by laying the 
fruit piece by piece in the can, and pouring syrup, clear as crystal, 
over it, and then, after subjecting the whole to the usual heat, 
sealing up. 

The following table gives the time required for cooking and the 
quantity of sugar to the quart for the various kinds of fruit. 

Time for Quant, j 

boiliug suizar 

fruit. trj ijt. I 

Cherries 5 min. 6 oz. j Peaches, whole 

Raspberries.... 6 " 4 " I Pine apples, sliced — 

Blackberries 6 " 6" | Siberian crab-apples,. 

Strawberries 8 " 8" j Sour apples, (juartered. 

Plums 10 10'' I Eioe currants 

Whortleberries.. 5 " 8 " 

Pie-Plant, sliced 10 " 8 " 

Small sour pears, whole 30 " 4 '* 

Bartlett pears, halved.,. 20 " 6 " 

Peaches 8 " 4 " 



Wild grapes 



Time iV'r 


Quanl. 


1h .iliuii 


sui^ar 


fn;!t 


to 'it. 


15 min. 


4oz. 


15 " 


6 " 




8 " 


10 " 


5 " 


(J " 


8 " 


10 " 


8 " 


20 " 


none. 


8 " 


8 " 


15 " 


10 " 



Canned Bi:kries. 
Select those the skins of which have not been broken, or the 
juice will darken the syrup; fill cans compactly, set in a kettle of 
cold wat'-r, with a cloth beneath them, over an even heat; when 
sufficiently liuated, pour over the l)erries a syru}) of white sugar 
dissolved in boiling water (the richer the better for keeping, though 
not for preserving the flavor of the fruit), cover the cans closely to 
retain heat on the top berries. To insure full cans when cold, have 
extra berries heated in like manner to supply the shrinkage. If 
the fruit swims, pour off surplus syrup, fill with hot fruit, and 
seal up as soon as the fruit at the top is thoroughly sctdded. — 3Ess 
L. Southivlck. 

Plain Canned Berries. 
Pick out stems or hulls if any — if gathered cai-el'ully the berries 
will not need washing, put in porcehiin kettle on the stove, adding 
a small tea-cup water to prevent burning at first. When they 
come to a l)oii, skim ^vell, add sugar t.* taste (for pies it may be 
omitted), let boil five minutes, fill in glass, stone, or tin cans, and 
.-eal witli putty unless self-sealers are used. This ruh^ applies to 



CAXNING FRUITS. 



123 



raspberrries, blackberries, currants, gooseberries, or any of the 
small berries. 

Canned Currants. 

Look them over carefully, stem and weigh them, alL.wing a 
pound of sugar to every one of fruit; put them in a kettle, cover, 
and leave them to heat slowly and stew gently for twenty or thirty 
mhiutes; then add the sugar, and shake tiie kettle occasionally to 
make it mix with the fruit; do not allow it to boil, but keep as 
hot as possible until the sugar is dissolved, then pour it in cans and 
secure the covers at once. White currants are beautiful preserved 
in this way.— Wm. Patrick, Midland, Mich. 

Green Gooseberries. 

Cook the berries in water until white, but not enough to break 
them; put into cans with as little water as possible, fill up the can 
-with boiling water and seal; when opened pour off water and cook 
like fresli berries. — Mrs. 0. M. S. 

Canned Peaches. 

Pour boiling water over one peck of large clingstone j^aches to 
remove the fuzz; make a syrup of three pounds sugar and one pint 
vineo-ar, using a little water if required to cover the peaches; 
cook until pretty soft, and can as usual.— i/r.s. Frank Stahr, 
Lancaster, Pa. 

Canned Peaches. 
Have one porcelain kettle with boiling water and another with a 
svrup made sweet enough with white sugar for the peaches ; pare, 
halve, and drop them into the boiling water, let them remain until 
a silver fork will pierce them, lift them out with a w^ire spoon, fill 
can, pour in all the boiling syrup the can will hold, and seal imme- 
diately. Continue in this way, preparing and sealing only one can 
at a time, until done; boil down the water hi first kettle with the 
syrup, if any is left; if not, add more sugar, and quite a nice mar- 
malade will result. This manner of canning peaches has been 
thoroughly tested, and is pronounced by the experienced the best 
of all method^. B. A. Sharp, Kingston. 

Canned Peaches Stea:med. 
To peel, place in a wire basket, to the handle of which a cord 
has been tied, let down into boiling water for a moment, then into 



124 



CANNING FR HITS. 



cold water, and strip off the skin (tliis saves both fruit and labor). 
The fruit must be at a certain stage to be prepared in this way, for 
if too green it will not peel, and if too ripe it will be too much 
softened by the hot water. After peeling, seed and place in a 
steamer over a kettle of boiling w^ater, hrst laying a cloth in bottom 
of steamer; fill about half full of fruit, cover tightly, make a syrup 
in a porcelain kettle for fruit alone, let the fruit steam until it can 
be easily pierced with a silver fork, drop gently for a moment into 
the hot syrup, place in the cans, fill, cover, and seal. The above 
recipe is for canning a few at a time. This recipe, with the excep- 
tion of mode of peeling, applies equally Avell to pears. 

Canned Peaches. 
Pare, halve and seed ; make a syrup of a pint granulated sugar 

to a quart water, place on stove in a porcelain kettle (enough for 

two quart cans). When syrup boils, drop in enough fruit for one 

can; watch closely, testing with a silver fork, so that the moment 

they are done they may be removed. When the })eaches are tender, 

lift very gently with a wire spoon, and place in the can previouslv 

heated, according to instructions for preparing glass cans. When 

full of peaches pour in the hot syrup, place the cover on and seal 

at once ; then add more peaches to the hot syrup for next can, and 

repeat the operation. If there are more peaches than Vvill fill the 

can, place them in another can and keep hot until more are ready, 

and so on until all are canned. Skim the syrup before adding 

peaches, making only enough syrup at one time for two cans. — 

Mrs. IF. W. W. 

Canned Pears. 
Prepare and can precisely like peaches in preceding recipe, except 
that they require longer cooking. When done they are easily pierced 
wdth a silver fork. 

Canned Pie Plant. 
Cut the pie plant in pieces, tw(^ inches long, put over a slow fire 
with its weight in sugar ; when sugar is dissolved let it boil slowdy 
until clear, but do not let it cook long enough to become dark col- 
ored. Put up in air-tight cans. 

Canned Pine-Apple. 
Peel and slice, make syrup in proportion of two and a half pounds 



CANNING FRUITS. 



125 



best white granulated sugar to nearly three pints of water ; boil five 
minutes; skim or strain; add fruit and let it boil; have cans hot; 
fill and seal up as soon as possible. 

Canned Plums. 
Wash and put whole into a syrup made in the proportion of a 
pint of water and a pound of sugar to every two pounds of fruit ; 
boil for eight minutes, can, and seal immediately. If pricked with 
a fork before placing in syrup, they will be less liable to burst. 
Cherries are canned in the same way. 

Raspberries with Currant Ji:tce. 
Ten pounds of red' or black raspberries, twelve pounds of granu- 
lated sugar, one (luart currant juice. ^lake syrup of the sugar and 
juice ; when boiling add the fruit, and continue for ten minutes. 
Put in glass cans and fasten immediately. 

Canned Strawberries. 
Fill glass jars with fresh whole strawberries, sprinkled with sugar 
in the proportion of half pound sugar to a pound of berries, lay 
covers on liijhtlv, stand them in a wash boiler filled with water to 
within an inch of tops of cans (the water nuist not be more than 
milk-warm when the cans are placed in it). When it has boiled 
for fifteen minutes, draw to back of stove, let steam pass ofi*, roll 
the hand in a towel, lift out cans, and place on a tal)le. If the 
berries are well covered with their own juice, take a table-spoon and 
fill up the first can to tlu^ very top of the rim from the second, wipe 
the neck, nil) drv, and screw the top down firndy, observing care- 
fidly the'generaf directions for canning berries. Fill another from 
the^second can, and so on until all are finished. Great care must be 
taken to keep the berries whole and round; as the cans cool invert 
them occasionally, to prevent the fruit from forming in a mass at 
one end. 

Canned Strawberries. 
For every quart of fresh straw])erries, take one cofiee-cup of white 
sugar; add^a table-spoon or two of water to the fruit if there is no 
juice in the bottom, to prevent burning before the heat brings out 
the juice. As soon as the fruit boils, add the sugar, and stir 
gently for a few minutes until it boils up again, and can immedi- 



126 



CANNING FRUITS, 



ately. It is better not to cook any more fruit than can be put 
into one glass fruit-jar. Usually a few spoonfuls of the syrup will 
be left with which to begin the next can. Strawberries are consid- 
ered difficult to keep, but there need be no trouble if the fruit is 
fresh and the can is closed air-tight in glass, and kept as directed 
in general directions for canning fruits.— H. S. Huntington^ 
Gaksburg, III. 

Canned Corn. 

Dissolve an ounce tartaric acid in half tea-cup water, and take 
one table-spoon to two quarts of sweet corn ; cook, and while boil- 
ing hot, fill the cans, which should be tin. When used turn into a 
colander, rinse with cold water, add a little soda and sugar while 
cooking, and season with butter, pepper and salt.— ife Lida Cart- 
inell. 

Canned Corn and Tomatoes. 
Scald, peel, and slice tomatoes (not too ripe) in the proportion 
of one-third corn to two-thirds tomatoes ; put on in a porcelain 
kettle, let boil fifteen minutes, and can immediately in tin or glass 
(if glass keep in the dark). Some take equal i)arrs of corn and 
tomatoes, preparing them as above. Others, after cutting the corn 
from the cob, cook it twenty minutes, adding a little water and 
stirring often, then prepare the tomatoes as above, cooking in a 
separate kettle five minutes, and then adding them to the corn in 
the proportion of one-third corn to two-thirds tomatoes, mixincr well 
until they boil up once, and then canning immediately.— iT/rs. D. 
Buxton. 

String-Beans. 

String fresh string-beans, break in several pieces, cook in boiling 
water tenyninutes, and can like tomatoes. -il/r^. L. W. C, Cin- 
cinnati. 

Canned Tomatoes. 

The tomatoes must be entirely fresh and not overripe ; pour over 
them boiling water, let stand a few^ minutes, drain off, remove the 
skins, and slice crosswise into a stone jar, cutting out all the hard 
or defective portions; cook for a few minutes in their own juice, 
skimming off the scum \vhich rises, and stirring with a wooden 
spoon or paddle; have the cans on the hearth filled Avith hot water; 



CANNING FRUITS. 



127 



empty, and fill with the hot tomatoes ; wipe the moisture from the 
tops with a soft cloth, and put on and secure the covers. If tin 
cans are used, press down the covers, and pour hot sealing wax into 
the grooves. If put up in glass jars, set away in a dark place. 
Either tin, glass or stone cans may be used, and all may be sealed 
with putty instead of wax, it being much neater and more con- 
venient. (See general instructions for canning fruit.) 

Canned Watermelon. 
Cut the melons, and after taking out the cores, peel all the green 
part off carefully, cut the rind into small pieces two or three inches 
long, and boil until tender enough to pierce with a fork; have a 
syrup made of white sugar, allowing half pound sugar to a pound 
fruit ; skim out the melon and place in this syrup together with a 
few pieces of race ginger, let cook a few minutes, put in cans and 
seal hot— Mrs. C. T, C. 



CATSUPS AND SAUCES. 



Alway^^ select perfect fruit; cook in porcelain, never in metal. 
In making catsup, instead of boiling, some sprinkle the tomatoes 
with salt and let them stand over night, then strain and add spices, 
etc., and a little sugar. Bottle in glas^ or stone, and never use tin 
cans ; keep in a cool, dry, dark place. If, on opening, there is a 
leathery mold on top, carefully remove every particle of it, and the 
catsu}) will not he injured. To prev(Mit this molding, some do not 
fill the bottles quite to the top with catsup, but fill up with hot 
vinegar. If there are white specks of mold all through the catsup 
it is spoiled. If, on opening and using a part, there is danger that 
the rest may sour, scald, and, if too thick, add vinegar. Sauces 
should always ])e made with great care in a pan set in hot water, 
having the sauce pan clean if a delicate flavor is desired, especially 
if the sauce is drawn butter. Butter and those sauces containino; 
eggs should never boil. Wooden spoons nuist ])e used for stirring. 
An excelL/nt thickening for soups, sauces and gravies is prepared 
as follows: Bring butter just to the Iwiling point in a small stew- 
pan, dredge in flour, stirring together until well cooked. This, 
when not cooked brown, is "White Roux," and when browned, 
Brown Roux.'' Thin this with a part of the soup, sauce or gravy, 
and add it to the whole, stirring thoroughly. The flour may be 
browned before using if intended for l)rown gravies or sauces. 
Melted butter may be used in place of oil in all recipes where the 
latter is named. 

Mint, when used in recipes, usually means ''spearmint" or 
*' green mint," though pennyroyal and peppermint are of the same 

(128) 



CATSUPS A^W SA UCES. 



129 



family. The young leaves of from one to six inches in length are 
the parts used. It grows on any good garden soil, but comes for- 
ward earlier in a warm, sunny spot. It is propagated by cuttings 
or dividing the roots of old plants in the spring, is very prolific, 
and ought to find a place in every garden. Those who have con- 
servatories should keep a root in pots, to use with spring lamb be- 
fore the leaves would appear in the open air. Mint leaves for 
drying should be cut from the stalks just before the plant blossoms, 
and spread out thinly in some dry, shady place, where they can 
dry sLjwly. When dry, put up in paper bags and keep in a dry 
place until wanted. 

Cucumber Catsup. 

Three dozen cucumbers and eighteen onions peeled and chopped 
very fine ; sprinkle over them three-fourths pint table-salt, put the 
whole in a sieve, and let drain well over night; add a tea-cup mus- 
tard seed, half tea-cup ground black pepper; mix well, and cover 
with good cider vinegar. — Mrs. Hattie Clemmons, Asheville, N. C. 

Currant Catsup. 
Four pounds nice fully-ri})e currants, one and a half pounds 
sugar, table-spoon ground cinnamon, a tea-spoon each of salt, 
ground cloves and pepper, pint vinegar ; stew currants and sugar 
until quite thick, add other ingredients, and bottle for use. 

Gooseberry Catsup. 
Nine pounds gooseberries, five pounds sugar, one quart vinegar, 
three table-spoons cinnamon, one and a half each allspice and cloves. 
The gooseberries should l)e nearly or quite ripe. Take off* blossoms, 
wash and put them into a porcelain kettle, mash thoroughly, scald 
and put through the colander, add sugar and spices, boil fifteen 
minutes, and add the vinegar cold ; bottle immediately before it 
cools. ■ Ripe grapes prepared by same rule, make an excellent cat- 
sup. — Mrs. Col. W. P. Reid, Delaware, Ohio. 

Tomato Catsup. 

Half bushel tomatoes, four ounces salt, three ounces ground black 

pepper, one ounce cinnamon, half ounce ground cloves, one drachm 
9 



130 



CATSUPS AND SAUCES, 



cayenne pepper, one gallon vinegar ; slice the tomatoes and stew in 
their own liquor until soft, and rub through a sieve fine enough to 
retain the seeds; boil the pulp and juice down to the consistency 
of apple-butter (very thick), stirring steadily all the time to prevent 
burning; then add the vinegar with which a small tea-cup sugar and 
the spices have been mixed, boil up twice, remove from fire, let 
cool and bottle= Those who like the flavor of onions mav add about 
half a dozen medium-sized ones, peeled and sliced, fifteen minutes 
before the vinegar and spices are put in. —Mrs. M. M. MiuuelU 
Delaware, Ohio. 

Tomato Catsup. 

Take one bushel of firm ripe tomatoes — the Feejee Island, known 
by their pink or purple color, and the "Trophy," are the best and 
richest varieties for catsup and canning. Wipe them off nicely with 
a damp cloth, cut out the cores, and put them in a porcelain -lined 
iron kettle or a genuine bell-metal one. Place over the fire, and 
pour over them about three pints of water, throw in two large 
handfuls of peach leaves, with ten or twelve onions or shallots cut fine. 
Boil until the tomatoes are done, which will take about two hours ; 
then strain through a coarse-mesh sieve, pour the liquid back again 
into the boiling kettle and add half a gallon of good strong cider 
vinegar ; hi ve ready two ounces ground spice, two ounces ground 
black pepper, two ounces mustard (either ground or in the seed, as 
you prefer), one ounce ground cloves, two grated nutmegs, two 
pounds light brown sugar, and one pint of salt ; mix these ingre- 
dients well together before putting in the boiler ; then boil two 
hours, stirring continually to prevent burning. If you like the 
catsup "hot." add cayenne pepper to your taste. When cool, fill 
bottles (reeded bottles are the nicest, they can be procured at the 
house furnisher's, and a set will last some time ; they look better 
than ones of all sizes and stvles). Cork and seal with bottle-wax 
so as to exclude the air. Keep in a cool, dry place for future use. 
This recipe is preferred to all others — it has been used for years. 
It keeps well, and has been pronounced by competent judges supe- 
rior to all others. — G. D., Baltimore , Md. 



CATSUPS AND SAUCES. 



131 



Bread Sauce. 

Place a sliced onion and six pepper-corns in half a pint of milk 
over boiling water, until onion is perfectly soft ; pour it on half a 
pint of bread crumbs without crust, and leave it covered for an 
hour ; beat it smooth, add pinch of salt, and two table-spoons 
butter rubbed in a little flour; add enough sweet cream or milk 
to make it the proper consistency, and boil a few minutes. It 
must be thin enough to pour. — Mrs. J. L. T., Denver, Col 

Bread Sauce. 

Half pint grated bread crumbs, one pint sweet milk, and one 
onion; l)oil until the sauce is smooth, take out onion and stir in 
two spoons butter with salt and pepper; boil once and serve with 
roast duck or any kind of game. — Mrs. IL C. E. 

Cranberry Sauce. 

After removing all soft berries, wash thoroughly, place for about 
two minutes in scalding water, remove, and to every pound fruit 
add three-quarters of a pound granulated sugar and a half pint 
water; stew tof^ether over a moderate ])ut steady fire. Be careful 
to cover and not to dir the fruit, but occasionally shake the vessel, or 
apply a gentler heat if in danger of sticking or l^urning. If atten- 
tion to these particulars be given, the berries will retain their shaj^ 
to a considerable extent, which adds greatly to their appearance on 
the table. Boil from five to seven minutes, remove from fire, turn 
into a deep dish, and set aside to cool. If to be kept, they can be put 
up at once in air-tight jars. Or, for strained sauce, one and a half 
pounds of fruit should be stewed in one pint of water for ten or 
twelve minutes, or until quite soft, then strained through a colander 
or fine wire sieve, and three-quarters of a pound of sugar thoroughly 
• : rred into the pulp thus ol)tained; after cooling it is ready for use. 
Serve with roast turkey or frame. When to be kept for a long time 
without sealing, more sugar may be added, but its too free use 
impairs the peculiar cranberry flavor. For dinner-sauce half a 
poimd is more economical, and really preferable to three-quarters, 
as given above. It is better, though not necessary, to use a por- 
celain kettle. Some prefer not to add the sugar till the fruit is 
almost done, thinking this plan makes it more tender, and preserves 
the color better. — C. G. & E. W. Crane, Caldwell, N. J. 



132 



CATSUPS AND SAUCES. 



Celery Sauce. 

Scrape the outside stalks of celery and cut in pieces an inch long, 
let stand in cold water half hour, then put in l)()iling water enough 
to cover, and cook until tender ; drain ofi* water and dress with 
butter, salt, and milk or cream, thickened with a little flour : Or, 
make a dressing by adding to half pint milk or cream, the well- 
beaten yolks of two eggs, a bit of butter, and a little salt and 
pepper or grated nutmeg; bring just to boiling point, pour over 
stewed celery, and serve with roast duck. — Mrs. A. IVihon. 

Cream Sauce. 

Heat one table-spoon butter in a skillet, add a tea-spoon flour, 
and stir until perfectly smooth, then add gradually one cup of cold 
milk, let ])oil up once, season to taste with salt and pepper, and 
serve. This is very nice for vegetables, omelets, fish, or sweet 
breads. 

Curry Powder. 
An ounce of ginger, one of mustard, one of pepper, three of cori- 
ander seed, three of turmeric, one-half ounce cardamom, quarter ounce 
cayenne pepper, quarter ounce cumin seed ; pound all fine, sift and 
cork tight. One tea-spoon of powder is sufiicient to season any thing. 
This is nice for boiled meats and stews. — J//'o\ C. FulVuKjion. 

Chili Sauce. 

Twelve large ripe tomatoes, four ripe or three green peppers, two 
onions, two tal)ie-sp()()ns salt, two of sugar, one of cinnamon, three 
cups vinegar ; peel tomatoes and onions, chop (separately) very fine, 
add the p(q:)pers (chopped) with the other ingredients, and boil one 
and a half hours. Bottle and it will keep a long time. Stone jugs 
are better than glass cans. One quart of canned tomatoes may be 
used instead of the ripe ones. This Chili sauce is excellent and 
much better and more healthful than catsups. — E. W, Her- 
rich, 2Ii)i)ieapolis, Minn. 

Caper Sauce. 

To a pint of drawn butter, add three table-spoons of capers. 
Serve with boiled or roast mutton. Another method is the follow- 
ing: Fifteen minutes before the mutton is done, melt tw^o table- 
spoons butter in a sauce-pan, stir into it one table-spoon flour ; when 
thoroughly mixed add half a joint of the hquor in which the mut- 



CATSUPS A^'D SAUCES. 



133 



ton is boiling, and half a pint of milk, season with pepper and salt, 
cook a few minutes (to swell the grains of the flour), and just be- 
fore serving (in order that their color may not be lost by standing) 
add two heaped table-spoons capers. 

Caper Butter. 

Chop one table-spoon of capers very fine, rub through a sieve 
with a wooden spoon, and mix them with a salt-spoon of salt, 
quarter of a salt-spoon of pepper, and one ounce of cold butter. 
Put a layer of this butter on a dish, and serve fish on it. 

Draw^n Butter. 
Rub a small cup of butter into half a table-spoon flour, beating it 
to a cream, adding, if needed, a little salt; pour on it half a pint 
boiling water, stirring it fast, and taking care not to let it quite boil, 
as boiling makes it oibj and unfit for use. The boiling may be pre- 
vented by placing the sauce-pan containing it in a larger one of boil- 
ing water, covering and shaking frequently until it reaches the 
boiling point. A great variety of sauces which are excellent to eat 
with fish, poultry, or boiled meats, can be made by adding different 
herbs, such as parsley, mint, or sweet marjoram, to drawn butter. 
First throw them into boiling water, cut fine, and they are ready to 
be added, when serve immediately, with two liard-boiled eggs, 
chopped fine. This makes a nice sauce to serve with baked fish. 
The chopped inside of a lemon with the seeds out, to which the 
chicken liver has been added, makes a good sauce for boiled chicken. 
For anchovy sauce, add two tea-spoons of anchovy extract or paste 
(kept by all grocers) to a half pint of drawn butter sauce, and 
stir well. For lobster sauce, chop the meat of the tail and claws 
of a good-sized lobster into pieces (not too small). Half an hour 
before dinner, make half a pint of drawn-butter, add the chop|>ed 
lobster, a pinch of coral, another of cayenne, and a little salt. 
When done it should not be a solid mass„ but the pieces of lobster 
should appear distinctly in the thin cream. 

Green Tomato Sauce. 
Cut up two gallons of green tomatoes; take three gills black 
mustard seed, three table-spoons dry nuistard, two and a half of 
black pepper, one and a half allspice, four of salt, two of celery 



134 



CATSUPS AXD SAUCES. 



seed, one quart each of chopped onions and sugar, and two and 
a half quarts good vinegar, a little red pepper to taste. Beat the 
spices and boil all together until well done. 

HOLLANDAISE 8auCE. 

Beat half a tea-cup butter in a bowl to a cream, add yolks of two 
eggs, one ])y one, then juice of half a lemon, a pinch of cayenne 
pepper, half a tea-spoon salt ; place this in a sauce-pan of boiling 
Walter, beat with an egg beater, for a minute or two, until it begins 
to thicken, then add onedialf cup of boiling water, beating all the 
time. When like soft custard it is done. It will take five minutes 
to cook if the bowl is thin and the water boils all the time. 

Lemox Sauce. 

Cut three slices of lemon into very small dice, ami put them into 
drawn butter, let it come just to boiling point, and pour over boiled 
fowls. 

Mayoxxaise Sauce. 

Mix in a two-quart bowl one even tea-spoon ground mustard, one 
of salt, and one and a half of vinegar ; beat in the yolk of a raw 
egg, then add very gradually half a pint pure olive-oil (or melted 
butter), beating briskly all the time. The mixture will become a 
very thick batter. Flavor with vinegar or fresh lemon-juice. 
Closely covered it will keep for weeks in a cold place, and is 
delicious. 

MixT Sauce. 

Take fresh, young mint, strip leaves from stems, wash, drain ou 
a sieve, or dry them on a cloth ; chop very fine, put in a sauce- 
tureen, and to three heaped table-spoons mint add two of pounded 
sugar ; let remain a few minutes well mixed together, and pour over 
it gradually six table-spoons of good vinegar. If members of the 
family like the flavor, but not the substance of the mint, the sauce 
may be strained after it has stood for two or three hours, pressing 
it well to extract all the flavor. It is better to make the sauce an 
hour or two before dinner, so that the vinegar may be impregnated 
with the mint. The addition of three or four table-spoons of the 
liquor from the boiling land) is an improvement. 



CATSUPS AND SAUCES. 



135 



Oyster Sauce. 

Set a basin on the fire with lialf pint oysters , from which all bits 
of shell have been picked, and one pint boiling w\ater ; let boil three 
minutes, skim well, and then stir in half a cup butter beaten to a 
cream, with two table-spoons flour ; let this come to a boil, and serve 
with boiled turkey. (3r, make drawn ])utte]', add a few drops lemon- 
juice, a tablespoon of capers, or a few drops vinegar, add oysters 
drained of the liquor, and let come to boiling point. The sauce 
is richer if cream instead of water is used in making the drawn 
butter, but in this case do not add the lemon-juice or vinegar.— 
Mrs. H. a M 

Onion Sauce. 

Boil three or four white onions till tender, mince fine ; boil half 
pint milk, add butter half size of an egg, salt and pepper to taste, 
and stir in minced onion and a table-spoon of flour which has been 
moistened wdth milk. — E. H. W. 

Roman Sauce. 

Put one tea-cup water and one tea-cup milk on fire to scald, and 
when hot stir in a table-spoon flour, previously mixed smooth with a 
very little cold water, add three eggs well beaten and strained, 
season with salt and pepper, two table-spoons butter and a little 
vineo-ar ; boil four e^^s bard, slice and lay over the dish ; pour over 
sauce, and serve with boiled fish. — Airs. E. T. E. 

Taktare Sauce. 
Yolks of two eggs, gill of salad-oil [ov melted ])utter), salt-spoon 
salt, half a salt-spoon i)epper, a table-spoon good cider vinegar, half 
tea-spoon mustard, a table-spoon of glierkins. Beat together in a 
small bowl lightly the vinegar and yolks, add to these, drop by drop, 
the salad-oil or melted butter, taking care to stir the same way all 
the time; when this is done, season the mixture with pepper, salt 
and mustard; add also the gherkins finely chopped (or capers may 
be substituted), and serve in a gravy boat with boiled salmon or 
cold meats. 

Tomato Sauce. 

Stew ten tomatoes with three cloves, and pepper and salt, for fif- 
teen minutes (some add a sliced onion and sprig of parsley), strain 
through a sieve, put on the stove in a saucepan in which a lump of 



136 



CATSUPS AND SAUCES, 



butter the size of an egg and level table-spoon flour have been well 
mixed and cooked; stir all until smooth and serve. Canned toma- 
toes may be used as a substitute. 

Prepared Mustard. 
Take three t^a-spoons ground mustard, one of flour (two if the 
mustard seems very strong), half tea-spoon of sugar; pour boiling 
water on these and mix into a smooth, thick paste ; when cold add 
vinegar enough to make ready for use, and serve with salt. This 
resembles the French mustard.— i/rs. 3fary Herbert Huntington. 

To Prepare Horse-radish for Winter. 
In the fall, mix the quantity wanted in the following proportions; 
A coflee-cup of grated horse-radish, two table-spoons white sugar, 
half tea-spoon salt, and a pint and a half cold vinegar; bottle and 
seal. To make horse-radish sauce, take t^vo table-spoons of the 
above, add one dessert-spoon olive oil (or melted butter or cream)^ 
and one of prepared mustard. 



DRINKS. 



To avoid adulteration, buy coffee in the grain, either raw or in 
small quantities freshly roasted. The best kinds are the Mocha and 
Java, and some prefer to mix the two, having roasted them sepa- 
rately in the proportion of one- third of the former to two-thirds of 
the latter. West India coffee, though of a different flavor, is often 
very good. 

Roast cotiee with the greatest care— for here lies the secret of 
success in coffee-making— and in small quantities, for there is a 
peculiar freshness of flavor when newly roasted. Pick over care- 
fully, wash and dry in a moderate oven, increase the heat and roast 
quickly, either in the oven, or on top of the stove or range ; in the 
latter case, stir constantly^ and in the oven stir often, with a wooden 
spoon or ladle kept for this purpose. The coffee must be thoroughly 
and evenly roasted to a dark rich brown (not black) throughout, and 
must be free from any burnt grains, a few of which will ruin the 
flavor of a large quantity. It must be tender and brittle, to test 
which take a grain, place it on the table, press with the thumb, and 
if it can be crushed, it is done. Stir in a lump of butter while the 
coffee is hot, or wait until about half cold and then stir in a well- 
beaten egg. The latter plan is very economical, as coffee so pre- 
pared needs no further clarifying. Keep in a closely-covered tin or 
earthen vessel. Never attempt other work while roasting coffee, 
but give it the entire attention. Do not grind too fine, and only m 
quantities as needed, for the flavor is dissipated if it is long unused 
after grinding, even when under cover. If properly roasted, coffee 
will grind into distinct, hard, and gritty particles, and not into a 
powder. 



138 



DRINKS. 



Physicians say that coffee without cream is more wholesome, par- 
ticularly for persons of weak digesti(jn. There seems to 1)e some 
element in the coffee which, coni])ining with the milk, forms a 
leathery coating on the stomach, and impairs digestion. 

If soft wa;er i- used for making tea, tea should bu added as soon 
as it boils, as i)()ihng expels all tlie gases from the water, ])ut if soft 
water can not be had, and hard water is used, ])oil it from twenty to 
thirty minutes 1)ef »re usiuo:. The boilinii; drives off the erases in 
this case, but it also causes the lime and mineral matters, which 
render the water hard, to settle, thus softening it. 

Making Coffee. 

"One for the pot" and a heaping table-spoon of ground coffee 
for each person, is the usual allowance. Mix well, either with a 
part or the whole of an egg (or codfish skin, washed, dried, and 
cut in inch pieces, may be used instead of egg), and enough cold 
water to thoroughly moisten it, place in a well-scalded coffee-boiler, 
pour in Ir.ilf the qtiantity of boiling water needed, allow^ing one 
pint less of water than there are table-spoons of coffee. Roll a cloth 
tightly arid stop up the nose or spout, thus keeping in all the coffee 
flavor. Boil rather fast five minutes, stirring down from the top 
and sides as it boils up, and place on back })art of stove or range 
where it will only simmer for ten or fifteen minutes longer. When 
ready to serve add the remainder of the boiling water. Or, another 
method of making coffee without clearing, is to stir the coffee 
directly into the boiling water, boil and simmer as above, then 
pour out a large cupful, and, holding it high over the pot, pour it 
m ag;\in ; repeat this, and set it on stove where it will keep hot, 
without simmering. The coffee will be clear, if instructions are 
carefully followed. Coffee boiled a long time is strong, but not so 
well flavored or agreeable as when prepared as above. 

To keep the coffee-pot or tea-pot thoroughly piu'e, ])oil a little 
borax in them, in water enough to touch the whole inside surflice, 
once or twice a week, for about fifteen minutes. dish-water 
should ever touch the inside of either. It is sulflcient to rinse them 
in two or three waters; this should be done as soon after they are 
used as possible ; drain dry, and when ready to tise scald out in 



DBIXKS. 



139 



two waters. Tlie^e prGCftutions will aid in preserving the flavor of 
the tea and coliee. In selecting coffee, choose that which is dry 
and light; if it feels dense and heavy it is green. 

Filtered Coffee. 

The French coffee biggin furnishes the easiest means for filtering 
coffee. It consists «ff two cylindrical tin vessels, one fitting into the 
other ; the bottom of the upper one is a fine strainer, another coarser 
strainer is placed on this with a rod running upwards from its 
center; the finely ground cofiee is ])ut in, nnd then another strainer 
is slipped on the rod, over the cofiee, the l)oiling water is poured 
on the upper sieve and falls in a shower upon the coffee, filtering 
through it to the coarse strainer at the bottom, which prevents the 
cofiee from filling up the holes of the finer strainer below it. The 
cofiee thus made is clear and pure. 

The National Coftee-pot is so widely known as not to need des- 
cription here, but the " gude wife" can improvise one equally as 
desirable and much simpler. :\Iak(: a sack of fine flannel, or 
cantou flannel, as kmg as the coffee-pot is deep, and a little larger 
than tiie top ; stich up the side seam to within an inch and a half 
of the top, bend a piece of small but rather stiff wire in a circle and 
slip it through a hem made around the top of the sack, bringing 
the ends tocrether at the opening left at the top of the side seam. 
Having put'tlie coffee in the sack, lower it into the coffee-pot with 
the ends of the wire next the handle, spread the ends of the wire 
apart slightly, and push it down over the t(^p of the pot. The top 
of the sack will then be turned down a little over the outside of th^ 
pot, a part of it covering the nose," and keeping in all the aroma, 
the'elasticitv of the wire causing it to close tight around the pot, 
holding the' sack close to its sides. Instead of a wire (which must 
be renmved to wash the sack after using), a tape may be used by 
tying the ends after turning the top of sack down. When the sack, 
with the cofiee in it is in its place, pour the boiling water over the 
coffee, close the lid tightly, and let simmer (not boil) fifteen min- 
utes to htilf an hour. In pouring for the ta1)le raise the sack off 
the nose but not out of the pot. This makes good coffee without 
eggs or any thing else to settle it. 



140 



DRINKS. 



Making Tea. 

^' Polly, put the kettle on, and we '11 all take Tea.'^ 

Of all *'ciips that cheer," there is nothing like the smoking-hot 
cup of tea, made with hoiling water, in a thoroughly scalded tea-pot. 
Put into the pot the required amount of tea, pour over it boiling 
water, cover the tea-pot so that no steam may escape, and allow the 
tea to stand and infuse for seven minutes, when it should be poured 
at once into the cups. If allowed to infuse longer than this time, 
which is sufficient to draw out the strength of the leaf, the tannin 
is developed, which gives an acrid, bitter taste, and being a power- 
ful astringent, is destructive to the coating of the stomach. To 
insure "keeping hot" while serving, in a different tea-pot from 
that in which the tea is made, the simple contrivance knowm as the 
*^ bonnet" is warranted a sure preventive against that most in- 
sipid of all drinks — a w^armish cup of tea. It is merely a sack, 
with a loose gathering-tape in the bottom, large enough to cover 
and encircle the tea-pot, with a small opening to fit the spout, and 
a slit through which the handle will be exposed. Make it with odd 
pieces of silk, satin or cashmere, lined, quilted or embroidered ; 
draw this over the tea-pot as soon as the tea is poured into it ; draw 
up the gathering-string tightly at the bottom, and the tea will 
remain piping hot for half an hour. One tea-spoon of tea and one 
tea-cup of hot water is the usual allowance for each person. Freshly 
boiled soft water is the best for either tea or coffee, Alwavs have 
a water-pot of hot water on the waiter with which to weaken each 
cup if desired. Tea should never boil. The most elegant mode of 
serving tea is from the tea-urn, various forms and designs of which 
are made in silver and plated ware. The best tea-pot is that which 
retains heat longest, and this is a bright metal one, as it radiates the 
least heat, but the metal must be kept bright and polished. Serve 
both tea and coffee with the best and richest cream, but in the 
absence of this luxury, a tolerable substitute is prepared as follows : 
Take fresh, new milk, set in a pan or pail in boiling water where it 
will slowly simmer, but not boil or reach the boiling point, stir fre- 
quently to keep the cream from separating and rising to the top, 
and allow to simmer until it is rich, thick and creamy. In absence 



DRINKS. 



141 



of both cream and milk, the white of an egg beaten to a froth, with 
a small bit of butter well mixed with it, may be used. In pouring 
coffee, it must be turned on gradually so as not to curdle it. 

Army Coffee. 

Coffee or tea may be made quickly by placing the required quan- 
tity of cold water in the pot, ami adding the coffee, tied up in a 
sack of fine gauze, or piece of muslin ; bring to boiling point, boil 
five minutes and serve. Make tea in the same way, except that 
the tea is put loose in the water, and simply allowed to boil up once. 

Coffee with Whipped Cream. 
For six cups of cotfee of fair size, take one cup sweet cream 
whipped liirht with a little sugar ; put into each cup the desired 
amount of^sugar and about a table-spoon boiling milk; pour the 
coffee over these and lay upon the surface of the hot liquid a large 
spoonful of the frothed ''cream, giving a gentle stir to each cup be- 
fore serving. This is known to some as merimjued coffee, and is an 
elegant French preparation of the popular drink. Chocolate served 
in this way is delicious.— il/ar/o/z Harland. 

Coffee for One Hundred. 
Take five potmds roasted coffee, grind and mix with six eggs; 
make small muslin sacks, and in each place a pint of coffee, leaving 
room for it to swell ; put five gallons boiling water in a large coffee 
urn or boiler havino: a faucet at the liottom ; put in part of the sacks 
and boil two hours ; five or ten minutes before serving raise the lid 
and ad.l one or two more sacks, and if you continue serving several 
times add ft-esh sacks at regular intervals, taking out from time to 
time those first put in and filling up with hoiling water as needed. 
In this wav the ftdl strength of the coffee is secured and the fresh 
supplies impart that delicious flavor consequent on a few moments 
boiling. 

To make coffee for twenty persons, use one and a halt pints 
ground coffee and one gallon of water.— 3//-.S. C. S. Ogden. 

Steamed Coffee. 

Put coffee into the pot, pour the boiling water on it ; place this 
pot (which is made to fit) into the top of the tea-kettle, and let 
cook from ten to twenty minutes, while water in kettle is kept 



142 



BBINKS. 



boiling all the time. This makes a clear, delicious coffee. Some 
persons hold that by first wetting the coffee with cold water, bring- 
mg it to boihng point, and then pouring in water, more of the strength 
is extracted. 

Vienna Coffee. 

Filter instead of ])oiling the coffee, allowing one table-spoon ground 
coffue to each person and "one for the pot;" put a (piart of cream 
into a custard-kettle or pail set in boiling water, and put it where it 
will keep boiling ; beat the white of an egg to a froth, and mix 
well with three table-spoons cold milk. As soon as the cream is 
hot, remove from fire, add the mixed egg and milk, stir together 
briskly f>r a minute, and then serve. 

Another metliod is to pour boiling water over the coffee, cover 
closely, boil one minute, remove to the side of the stove a few min- 
utes to settle, and serve. Allow two heaping table-spoons coffee to 
a pint of water. The less time the coffee is cooked the more coffee 
is required, but the finer the flavor. The late Professor Blot pro- 
tested against boiling the coffee at all, as in his opinion the aroma 
was evaporated, and only the bitter flavor left. 

Chocolate. 

Take six table-spoons scraped chocolate, or three of chocolate and 
three of cocoa, dissolve in a quart of boiling water, boil hard fifteen 
minutes, add one quart of rich milk, let scald and serve hot; this 
is enough for six persons. Cocoa can also be made after this recipe. 
Some boil either cocoa or chocolate only one minute and then serve, 

re using, boiling it f )r one hour, 
and when cool skimming oft' the oil, and when wanted for use, heat 
it to the boiling point and add the milk. In this way it is equally 
good and much more wholesome. Cocoa is from the seed of the 
fruit of a small tropical tree. There are several forms in which it 
is sold, the most nutritious and convenient being chocolate, the 
next cocoa, then cocoa nibs, and last cocoa shells. The ground 
bean is simply cocoa; ground fine and mixed with sugar it is choco- 
late; the beans broken into bits are " nil)s." The shells are the 
shells of the bean, usually removed bef )re grinding. The beans 
are roasted like coffee, and ground between hot rollers. 



DRINKS. 



143 



Vienna Chocolate. 
Put into a coffee-pot set in boiling water, one quart of new milk 
(or a pint each of cream and milk), stir into it three heaping table- 
spoons grated chocolate mixed to a paste with cold milk, let it boil 
two or three minutes, and serve at once. To make good chocolate, 
good materials are required. 

Cider. 

Cider should be made from ripe apples only, and for this reason, 
and to prevent fermentation, it is better to make it late in the 
season. Use only the best-flavored grafted fruit, rejecting all that 
are decayed or wormy. The best mills crush, not grind, the apples. 
The utmost neatness is necessary throughout the process. Press and 
strain juice as it comes from the press through a woollen cloth into 
a perfectly clean barrel; let stand two or three days if cool, if 
warm not more than a day ; rack once a week for four weeks, put 
in bottles and cork tightly. This will make perfect unfermented 
cider. Do not put any thing in it to preserve it, as all so-called 
preservatives are humbugs. Lay the bottles away on their sides in 
sawdust. — C. T. Carson, Mt. Pkctsant Farm. 

Bottled Cider. 

Take good sweet cider (if a tart flavor is wished, let it just be- 
gin to ferment), put on stove, skim thoroughly (as the great secret is 
to remove all pumice from the cider), heat to boiling point, but do 
not allow it to boil, and then pour in bottles or jugs and seal while 
hot. Some put two or three raisins in each bottle or jug. This 
keeps all winter. It certainly makes a richer drink than when 
fresh, and as cider is pronouncefl a great remedy for colds, all 
should know this simple way of keeping it. 

Grandmotpier's Harvest Drink. 

One quart of water, table-spoon sifted ginger, three heaping 
table-spoons sugar, half pint vinegar. 

Lemonade. 

Roll six lemons well, slice thin in an earthen vessel, put over 
them two tea-cups white sugar; let stand fifteen minutes, add one 
gallon water and lumps of ice, pour into pitcher and serve. Some 
add soda after the glasses are filled, and stir rapidly for ''sparkling 
lemonade." 



144 



DRINKS. 



Raspberry Shrub. 
Place reel raspberries in a stone jar, cover them with good cider 

vinegar, let stand over night ; next morning strain, and to one pint 

of juice add one pint of sugar, boil ten minutes, and bottle while 

hot. — Mrs. Judge West. 

Sherbet. 

One pine apple, four lemons, two quarts water, two tea-cups 
sugar ; steep the pine-apple in tlie water for two hours ; strain 
and add the juice of the lemons and sugar ; ^\ hip the whites of 
five eggs, add to them three table-spoons of sugar ; place all in 
freezer, freeze at once. Adding the sugar to the whites gives body 
to the sherbet; it is excellent. — 3Irs. M. B. Sperrij^ iScishville^ Tenn. 

Soda Beer. 

Two pounds white sugar, whites of two eggs, two ounces tartaric 
acid, two table-spoons flour, two quarts water and juice of one 
lemon; boil two or three minutes, and flavor to taste. When 
wanted for use, take a half tea-spoon soda, dissolve in half a glass 
of water, pour into it about two table-spoons of the acid, and it will 
foam to the top of the glass. — Mrs. Geo. W. Sampson. 

Lemox Sykup. 

Take the juice of twelve lemons, grate the rind of six in it, let it 
stand over night, then take six pounds of white sugar, and make a 
thick syrup. When it is quite cool, strain the juice into it, and 
squeeze as much oil from the grated rind as will suit the taste. A 
table-spoonful in a goblet of water will make a delicious drink on a 
hot day, far superior to that prepared from the stuff' commoidy 
sold as lemon syrup. — Miss Ahbie G. Backus, West Killingly, Conn. 

Iced Tea. 

Prepare tea in the morning, making it stronger and sweeter than 
usual; strain and pour into a clean stone jug or glass bottle, and 
set aside in the ice-chest until readv to use. Drink from o^oblets 
without cream. Serve ice broken in small pieces on a })latter nicely 
garnished with well-washed grape-leaves. Iced tea may be pre- 
pared from either green or black alone, but it is considered an im- 
provement to mix the t^yo. Tea made like that for iced tea (or that 
left in the tea-pot after a meal), with sugar to taste, a slice or two 
of lemon, a little of the juice, and some pieces of cracked ice, 
makes a delightful drink. Serve in o-]ass<\'i. 



E Gr Gr S . 



The fresher they are the better and more wholesome, though 
new-laid eggs require to be cooked longer than others. Eggs over 
a week old will do to fry, but not to boil. In boiling, they are less 
likely to crack if dropped in water not quite to the boiling point. 
Eggs will cook soft in three minutes, hard in five, very hard (to 
serve with sahids, or to slice thin — seasoned well with pepper and 
salt — and put between thin slices of bread and butter) in ten to 
fifteen minutes. There is an objection to the ordinary way of boil- 
ing eggs not generally understood. The white, under three min- 
utes rapid cooking, is toughened and becomes indigestible, and yet 
the yolk is left uncooked. To be wholesome, eggs should be cooked 
evenly to the center, and this result is best reached by putting the 
eggs into a dish having a tight cover (a tin pail will do), and 
pouring boiling water over them in the proportion of two quarts to 
a dozen eggs ; cover, and set away from the stove ; after cooking 
about seven minutes remove cover, turn the eggs, replace cover, 
and in six or seven minutes they will be done if only two or three 
eggs ; if more, in about ten minutes. The heat of the water cooks 
the e^rcrs slowlv to a iellv-like consistency, and leaves the yolk harder 
than the white. The egg thus cooked is very nice and rich. To 
fry eggs, after frying ham, drop one by one in the hot fat and dip 
it over them, until the white is set; dust with pepper and salt, and 
serve hot; cook from three to five minutes, according to taste. 

Put eggs in water in a vessel with a smooth level bottom, to tell 
good from bad ; those which lie on the side are good, but reject 

10 (1-45/ 



146 



EGGS. 



those which stand on end as bad ; or, look through each egg sepa- 
rately toward the sun, or toward a lamp in a darkened room ; if the 
white looks clear, and the yolk can be easily distinguished, the egg 
is good; if a dark spot appears in either white or yolk, it is stale; 
if they appear heavy and dark, or if tliey gurgle when shaken 
gently, they are "totally depraved." The best and safest plan is 
to break each egg in a saucer before using. For preserving eggs 
for winter use, always secure freA ones ; after packing, cover closely 
and keep in a cool place. 

TO MAKE OMELETS. 

To make an omelet, beat the yolks lightly (twelve beats is said 
to be the magic number), as too much ])eating makes them thin 
and destroys the appearance of the omelet, then add the milk, the 
salt, pepper, and flour if any is used, and lastly the whites beaten 
to a stiff froth. Have the skillet as hot as it can be w^ithoiifc 
scorching the butter ; put in a table-spoon of butter and pour in 
the omelet, which should at once begin to bubble and rise in flakes. 
Slip under it a thin, broad-bladed knife, and every now and then 
raise it up to prevent burning. As soon as the under side is hard 
enough to hold together, and the eggs begin to ''set," fold over, 
shake the skillet so as to entirely free the omelet, carefully slide it 
on a hot platter, and serve at once. It should be cooked in from 
three to five minutes. To bake an omelet, place in the frying-pan 
on top of stove until it begins to " set" in the middle, then place in 
a rather hot oven ; when slightly browned, fold if you like, or turn 
a hot dish on top of the pan, upset the latter with a quick motion, 
and so dish the omelet with the under side uppermost. It should 
be baked in from five to ten minutes. Where a large quantity of 
eggs are used, instead of making into one large omelet, divide and 
make several, sending each to the table as soon as done. Three 
eggs make a good-sized omelet. Ham, chicken, and all kinds of 
meat omelets, are made by chopping the meat fine and placing 
between the f )lds before dishing. In making vegetable (asparagus, 
tomatoes, cauliflower, etc.) omelets, cook the vegetables as if for the 
table; place them in the center of the omelet just before folding. 

For a plain, easily-made omelet, take three table-spoons milk and 



147 



a pinch of salt for each egg ; beat the eggs lightly for three or four 
minutes, pour them into a hot pan in which a piece of butter the 
size of a walnut has just been melted, cook three or four minutes, 
fold over and serve at once. Some scald a little parsley, pour off 
the water, chop it, and mix with the omelet just before pouring 
into the pan. Old cheese, grated and added to a plain omelet, is a 
favorite dish. To make a bread omelet, remove all crust from a 
large slice of light, white bread, moisten with sweet milk, rub 
throuo-h a sieve, add to the yolks, boat very thoroughly, and season 
with salt and pepper to taste, adding beaten whites last. 



Boiled Eggs. 

Put them on in cold water, and when it has boiled, the eggs wdll 
be done, the whites being soft and digestible, as they are not when 
put on in boiling water. 

Baked Eggs. 

Break eight eggs into a well-buttered dish, put in pepper and 
salt, bits of butter, and three table-spoons cream ; set in oven and 
bake about twenty minutes ; serve very hot. 

Birds' Nest. 

Boil eggs hard, remove shells, surround w^ith force-meat; fry or 
bake them till nicely browned, cut in halves, and place in the dish 
with gravy. 

CUERIED EC:^GS. 

Shoe two onions and fry in butter, add a table-spoon curry-pow^der 
and one pint good broth or stock, stew till onions are quite tender, 
add a cup of cream thickened with arrowroot or rice flour, simmer 
a few^ moments, tlion add eiirht or ten hard-boiled eirsfs, cut in slices, 
and beat them well, but do not boil.— 3/?'8. E. L. Fay, Wctshington 
Heights. 

EscALOPED Eggs. 

Moisten bread-crumbs with milk or meat broth ; place a layer of 
this in a well-buttered dish ; slice some hard-boiled eggs, and dip 
each slice in a thick-drawn butter sauce to which a well-beaten egg 
has been added ; put a layer of them upon the crumbs, then a 
slight layer of minced ham, veal or chicken, then bread, etc., fin- 



148 



EGGS. 



ishing with dry, sifted bread-crumbs; bake until well heated; or, 
mix equal parts miuced ham and fine bread-crumbs, season with 
salt, pepper and melted butter, adding milk to moisten till quite 
soft ; half fill buttered gem-pans or small patty-pans wdth this mix- 
ture, and break an egg carefully upon the top of each, dust with 
salt and pepper, sprinkle finely powdered crackers over all, set in 
the oven and bake eight minutes ; serve immediately. 

Frizzled Ham and Eggs. 

Take bits of either boiled or fried ham, chop fine, and place in 
skillet prepared with butter or beef drippings ; take four to six well- 
beaten eggs, pour over ham, and when heated through, season well 
with pepper and salt ; stir together, cook until done browm, and turn 
over without stirring. 

Puff Oivielet. 

Stir into the yolks of six eggs, and the w^hites of three beaten very 
light, one table-spoon of flour mixed into a tea-cup of cream or milk, 
with salt and pepper to taste ; melt a table-spoon butter in a pan, 
pour in the mixture and set the pan into a hot oven; when it 
thickens, pour over it the remaining whites of eggs w^ell beaten, 
return it to the oven and let it bake a delicate brown. Slip off on 
large plate, and eat as soon as done. — Mrs. TF. D. Hall, Ilaivley, 
Minn. 

Poached Eggs. 

Break and drop them one at a time in salted water, to which 
some add a small lump of butter ; some say drop in when simmer- 
ing, others when boiling, not letting it boil again after putting in 
the eggs; others have water boiling, salt, then place it where it 
will stop boiling, drop in eggs, and let simmer gently till done. Al- 
ways take great care in keeping the yolk whole. To preserve the 
egg round, muffin rings may be placed in the water, or stir with a 
spoon and drop in the eddy thus made, stirring till egg is cooked. 
To serve them, toast squares of bread three-quarters of an inch 
thick, put a very little melted butter upon each slice, place on a 
heated platter, lay an egg on each square, and sprinkle wdth pepper 
and salt. Some put a bit of butter on each egg. Serve with Wor- 
cester sauce if desired. Some poach feggs in milk, serving them in 



EGGS. 



149 



sauce dishes with some of the milk, and seasoning with pepper and 
salt. 

Pickled Eggs. 

Pint strong vmegar, half pint cold water, tea-spoon each of cinna^ 
mon, allspice, and mace ; boil the eggs till very hard and take off 
the shell ; put on the spices tied in a white muslin bag, in the cold 
water, boil, and if the water wastes away, add enough so as to leave 
a half pint when done; add the vinegar, and pour over the eggs, 
put ill as many eggs as the mixture will cover, and when they are 
used, the same will do for another lot. Or, after boilmg (hard) and 
removing shell, place in jar of beet pickles, and the white will be- 
come red ; cut in two in serving. 

Scrambled Eggs. 
In a deep earthen pie-plate, warm sweet milk, allowing two table- 
spoons to each egg (or less, with a large number of eggs), add a bit of 
butter size of a walnut, and a little salt and pepper. When nearly 
to boiling point drop in the eggs, broken one at a tnne in a saucer; 
with a spoon or thin-bladed knife gently cut the eggs, and scrape 
the mixture up from the bottom of the plate as it cooks. If it begins 
to cook dry and fast at the bottom, move the dish back instantly, for 

ft. 

success depends wholly on cooking gently and evenly, proportions 
being of secondary importance. Take from stove before it has quite 
all thickened, and continue turning it up from bottom of dish a 
moment longer. If served in another dish (it keeps warmer served in 
same) have it well heated. The mixture should be in large flakes 
of minded white and yellowy and as delicate as baked custard. 
Some prefer them scrambled without the milk.— i/r8. L. S. Willis- 
ton, Jamestown. N. Y. 

Stuffi:d Eggs. 

Cut in two, hard-boiled eggs, remove yolks, chop, and mix with 
them chopped cold chicken, lamb, or veal (some add a little minced 
onion or parsley and a few soaked bread-crumbs), season, and add 
gravy or the uncooked yolk of an egg, form, fill in the cavities, 
level, put the two halves together, roll in beaten egg and bread- 
crumbs, put in wire egg-basket, and dip in boihng lard; when 
slightly brown, serve with celery or tomato sauce. 



150 



EGGS. 



To Keep Eggs. 

Put a two inch layer of salt in bottom of stone jar, then a layer 
of fresh eggs, small end down; then salt, then eggs, and so on till 
jar is full, with a layer of salt at top; cover and put in a cool place, 
but not where they will freeze. This is a simple, easy, and inex- 
pensive way, and has been tested for years. Or, dip the eggs in 
melted wax, or a weak solution of gum, or in flax-seed oil, or rub 
over simply with lard, each of which renders the shell impervious 
to air, and i)ack away in oats or bran. For one's own use the latter 
is a good metliod, keeping the eggs perfectly, but it discolors the 
shells, and renders them unfit for market. 

There has always existed a great difference of opinion as to Avhich 
end down eggs should be placed in packing for winter use. \Y. H. 
Todd, the well known Ohio breeder of pouUry, gives what seems 
to be a sound reason for packing them larger end down. He says: 

The air-chamber is in the larger end, and if that is placed dow^n 
the yolk will not break through and touch the shell, and thereby 
spoil. Another thing, if the air-chamber is down, the egg is not as 
liable to shrink away. These are two important reasons deducted 
from experiments, and they materially afiect the keeping of eggs." 



FISH. 



Fish is easier of digestion but less nutritious than meats, if sal- 
mon is excepted, which is extremely hearty food, and should be 
eaten sparingly by children and those whose digestion is not strong. 
Fish must be fresh, the fresher the better— those being most perfect 
which go straight from their native element into the hands of the 
cook. The white kinds are least nutritious; and the oily, such as 
salmon, eels, herrings, etc., most difficult of digestion. When fish 
are in season, tlie muscles are firm and they boil white and curdy; 
when transparent and bluish, though sufficiently boiled, it is a 
sign that they are not in season or not fresh. 

As soon as possible after fish are caught, remove all scales (these 
may be loosened by pouring on hot Avater), and scrape out entrails 
and every particle of blood and the white skin that lies along the 
backbone, being careful not to crush the fish more than is abso- 
lutely necessary in cleaning. Rinse thoroughly in cold water, using 
only what is necessary for perfect cleanliness, drain, wipe dry, and 
place on ice until ready to cook. To remove the 
fresh-water fish, sprinkle with salt, and let stand over night, or at 
least a few hours, before cooking; rinse ofi; wipe dry, and to com- 
pletely absorb all the moisture, place in a folded napkin a short 
time. Fresh-water fish should never be soaked m water except 
when frozen, when they may be placed in ice-cold water to thaw, 
and then cooked immediately. Salt fish may be soaked over night 
in cold water, changing water once or twice if very salt. To 
freshen fish, always place it skin-side up, so that the salt may 
have free course to the bottom of pan, where it naturally settles. 

(151) 



152 



FISH. 



Fish should always be well cooked, being both unpalatable and 
unwholesome when underdone. For boiling, a fish-kettle is almost 
indispensable, as it is very difficult to remove a large fish without 
breaking from an ordinary kettle. The fish-kettle is an oblong 
boiler, in which is suspended a j^erforated tin plate, with a handle at 
each end, on which the fish rests while boiling, and with which it is 
lifted out when done. From this tin it is easily slipped off to the 
platter on which it goes to the table. When no fish-kettle is at 
hand, wrap in a cloth, lay in a circle on a plate, and set in the 
kettle. When done the fish may be lifted out gently by the cloth 
and thus removed to the platter. 

In frying by dipping into hot fat or drippings (or olive oil is still 
better), a wire basket in which the fish is placed and lowered into 
the fat, is a great convenience. 

One of the most essential things in serving fish, is to have every 
thing hot, and quickly dished, so that all may go to the table at 
once. Serve fresh fish with squash and green pease, salt fish with 
beets and carrots, salt pork and potatoes and parsnips with either. 

In the East there is a great variety of fish in winter. The 
blue fish is excellent boiled or baked with a stuffing of bread, 
butter and onions. Sea-bass are boiled with egg-sauce, and gar- 
nished with parsley. Salmon are baked or boiled, and smelts are 
cooked by dropping into boiling fat. The sheap's-head, which re- 
quires most cooking of all fish, is always stuffed and baked. 

Nearly all the larger fresh fish are boiled, the medium-sized are 
baked or broiled and the small are fried. The verv laro^e ones are 
cut up and sold in pieces of convenient size. The method of cook- 
ing which retains most nourishment is broiling, baking is next best, 
and boiling poorest of all. Steaming is better than boiling. In 
baking or boiling place a fish as nearly as possible in the same 
position it occupies in the water. To retain it there, shape like the 
letter "S," pass a long skewer through the head, body, and tail, 
or tie a cord around tail, pass it through body, and tie around the 
head. 

In cooking fish, care must be taken not to use the same knives or 
spoons in the preparation of it and other food, or the latter will be 
tainted with the fishy flavor. 



FISH. 



153 



In boiling i?sh, allow five to ten minutes to the pound, according 
to thickness, after putting into the boiling water. To tesi, pass a 
knife along a bone, and if done the fish Avill separate easily. Re- 
move the moment it is done, or it will become ^'woolly" and in- 
sipid. The addition of salt and vinegar to water in which fish is 
boiled, seasons the fish, and at the same time hardens the water, 
so that it extracts less of the nutritious part of the fish. In boil- 
ing fish always plunge it into boiling water, and then set where it 
will simmer gently until done. In case of salmon, put into tejAd 
water instead of hot, to preserve the rich cokr. Garnishes for fish 
are parsley, sliced beets, fried smelts (for turbot), lobster coral (for 
boiled fish). For hints on buying fish, see "Marketing." 

Baked Fish. 

Clean, rinse, and wipe dry a white fish, or any fish weighing three 
or four pounds, rub the fish inside and out with salt and pepper, fill 
with a stufiing made like that for poultry, but drier ; sew it up 
and put in a hot pan, with some drippinofs and a lump of butter, 
dredge with flour, and lay over the fish a few thin slices of salt 
pork or bits of butter, and bake an hour and a half, basting occa- 
sionally.— J/rs. A. Wilson, Bije, Xew York. 

Baked Shad. 

Open and clean the fish, cut ofi* head (or not as preferred) cut 
out the backl)one from the head to within two inches of the tail, 
and fill with the fi)llowing mixture: Soak stale bread in water, 
squeeze dry ; cut a large onion in pieces, fry in butter, chop fine, 
add the bread, two ounces of butter, salt, pepper, and a little pars- 
ley or sage ; heat thoroughly, and when taken from the fire, add two 
yolks of well-beaten eggs; stufi*, and, when full, wind the fish sev- 
eral times with tape, place in baking-pan, baste slightly with butter, 
and cover the bottom of pan with water ; serve with the following 
sauce: Reduce the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs to a smooth paste, 
add two tal)le-spo(His olive-oil, half tea-spoon mustard, and pepper 
and vinegar to taste. — 3Iiss H. D. M. 

Baked Salmon, Tkout or Pickerel. 

Clean thoroughly, wipe carefully, and lay in a dripping-pan with 
hot water enough to prevent scorching (a perforated tin sheet or 



154 



FISH, 



rack fitting loosely in the pan, or several muffin-rings may be used 
to keep the fish from the bottom of the pan, and the fish may be 
made to form a circle by tying head and tail together); bake slowly, 
basting often with butter and water. When done have ready a cup 
of sweet cream into which a few s^^oons of hot water have been 
poured, stir in two table-spoons melted butter and a little chopped 
parsley, and heat in a vessel of boiling water ; add the gravy from 
the dish and ])oil up once. Place the fish in a hot dish, and pour 
over the sauce. — Mrs. Theo, Brown, Cape Girardeau, Mo, 

Codfish a La Mode. 

Tea-cup codfish picked up fine, two cups mashed potatoes, one 
pint cream or milk, two eggs well beaten, half tea-cup butter, salt 
and pepper ; mix well, bake in baking-dish from twenty to twenty- 
five minutes. — Mrs. E. L. Fay, New York City. 

Boiled Fish. 

To boil a fish, fill with a rich dressing of rolled crackers seasoned 
with butter, pepper, salt and sage, wrap it in a well-floured cloth, 
tie closely with twine or sew, and place in well-salted boiling water. 
Place where it will simmer from eight to ten minutes to the pound, 
according to size and thickness of fish. — Mrs. Ileiiry G. Farrar^ 
Cleveland, Tenn. 

Boiled Codfish. 

Soak over night, put in a pan of cold water, and simmer two or 
three hours. Serve with drawn butter, with hard-boiled eggs sliced 
on it. Codfish is also excellent broiled. After soaking sufficiently, 
grease the bars of the gridiron, broil, and serve with ]3its of butter 
dropped over it. This is a nice relish for tea. — Mrs. Lewis Brown. 

Boiled Fresh Cod. 

Put the fish in fish-kettle (or tie up in cloth) in boiling water with 
some salt and scraped horse-radish, let simmer till done, place a 
folded napkin on a dish, turn fish upon it, and serve with drawn 
butter, oyster or egg-sauce. When cold, chop fine, pour over it 
drawn butter or egg-sauce, and add pepper to taste, warm thor- 
oughly, stirring to prevent burning, make up in rolls or any other 
form, and brown before the fire. 



FISH. 



155 



Bon^ED Salt Mackerel. 
After freshening wrap in a cloth and simmer for fifteen minutes ; 
it will be almost done as soon as the water reaches the boiling point ; 
remove, lay on it two hard-boiled eggs sliced, pour over it drawn 
butter, and trim with parsley leaves. Boiling salt-fish hardens it. 

Boiled White Fish. 
Dress the fish nicely, and cover in fish-kettle with boiling water 
seasoned well with salt ; remove the scum as it rises, and simmer, 
allowing from eight to ten minutes time to every pound; when about 
half done, add a little vinegar or lemon juice, take out, drain, and 
dish carefully, pouring over it drawn butter ; or garnish w^ith sprigs 
of parsley, and serve with egg-sauce. — Mrs. M. Smith, Pittsburgh. 

Broiled AVhite Fish. 
Clean, split down the back, and let stand in salted water for 
several hours ; wipe dry, and place on a well-greased gridiron over 
hot coals, sprinkling with salt and pepper. Put flesh side down at 
first, and when nicely browned, turn carefully on the other. Cook 
for twenty or thirty minutes, or until nicely browned on both sides. 
— Mrs. H. Colwelly Chicago, 111. 

Brook Trout. 

Wash and drain in a colander a few minutes, spht nearly to the 
tail, flour nicely, salt, and put in pan, which should be hot but not 
burning , throw in a little salt to prevent sticking, and do not turn 
until brown enough for the table. Trout are nice fried with slices 
of salt pork. 

Codfish Balls. 
Soak codfish cut in pieces about an hour in lukewarm water, 
remove skin and bones, pick to small pieces, and return to stove in 
cold water. As soon as it ])egins to boil, change the water, and 
brinir to a boil again. Have ready potatoes boiled tender, well 
mashed, and seasoned with butter. ]Mix thoroughly with the pota- 
toes half the quantity of codfish wliile both are still hot, form into 
flat, thick cakes or round balls, fry in hot lard or drippings, or dip 
in hot fit, like doughnuts. The addition of a beaten egg before 
making into balls renders them lighter. Cold potatoes may be used, 
by reheating, adding a little cream and butter, and mixing while 
hot. — Mrs. J. H. Shearer. 



156 



FISH. 



Canned Salmon. 
The California canned salmon is nice served cold with any of the 
fish-sauces. For a breakfast dish, it may be heated, seasoned with 
salt and pepper, and served on slices of toast, with milk thickened 
with flour and butter poured over it. 

Fish Chowder. 

The best fish for chowder are haddock and striped bass, although 
any kind of fresh fish may be used. Cut in pieces over an inch 
thick and two inches square ; place eight good -sized slices of salt pork 
in the bottom of an iron pot and fry till crisp ; remove the pork, 
leaving the fat, chop fine, put in the pot a layer of fish, a layer of 
split crackers, and some of the chopped pork with black and red 
pepper and chopped onions, then another layer of fish, another of 
crackers and seasoning, and so on. Cover with w^ater, and stew 
slowly till the fish is perfectly done ; remove from the pot, put in 
dish in which you serve it and keep hot, thicken the gravy with 
rolled cracker or flour, boil it up once and pour over the chowder. 
Some add a little catsup, port wine and lemon juice to the gravy 
just before taking up, but I think it nicer without them. — 2Irs, 
Woodivorth, Springfield, Mass. 

Fried Fish. 

Clean thoroughly, cut ofi" the head, and, if large, cut out the 
backbone, and slice the body crosswise into five or six pieces ; dip 
in Indian meal or wheat flour, or in a beaten egg, and then in bread 
crumbs (trout and perch should never be dipped in meal), put into 
a thick-bottomed skillet, skin side uppermost, with hot lard or drip- 
pings (never in butter, as it takes out the sweetness and gives a bad 
color), fry slowly, and turn when a light brown. The i"oe and the 
backbone, if previously removed, may be cut up and fried with the 
other pieces. A better way is to dredge the pieces in the flour, 
brush with beaten egg, roll in bread-crumbs, and fry in hot lard 
or drippings enough to comph^tely cover them. Tf tlie fat is venj hot, 
the fish will not absorb it, and will be delicately cooked. When 
brown on one side, turn over in the fat and brown the other, and 
when done let them drain. Slices of large fish may be cooked m 
the same way. Serve with tomatoe sauce or slices of lemon. 



FISH. 



157 



Katy's Codfish. 
Soak pieces of codfish several hours in cold water, or wash thor- 
oughly, heat in oven and pick fine, and place in skillet with cold 
water ; boil a few minutes, pour ofi* water and add fresh, boil again 
(if not very salt the second boiling is not necessary) , and drain off 
as before ; then add plenty of sweet milk, a good-sized piece of but- 
ter, and a thickening made of a little flour (or corn starch) mixed 
with cold milk until smooth like cream. Stir well, and just before 
taking from the fire drop in an egg, stir very briskly, and serve.— 
3Irs. Helen M. Stevenson. 

Baked Herring. 
Soak salt herring over night, roll in flour and butter, and place 
in a dripping-pan with a very little water over them; season with 
pepper. — Mrs. E. J. Starr, 

Potted Fresh Fish. 
Let the fish lie in salt water for several hours ; then for five pounds 
fish take three ounces salt, two of ground black pepper, two of cin- 
namon, one of allspice, and a half ounce cloves ; cut fish in shoes, 
and place in the jar in which it is to be cooked, first a layer offish, 
then the spices, flour and bits of butter sprinkled on, repeating till 
done. Fill the jar with equal parts vinegar and water, cover closely 
with a cloth well floured on top so that no steam can escape, and 
bake six hours. Let it remain in jar until cold, cut in slices, and 
serve for tea. — Mrs. L. Brown. 

Pan-Fish. 

Place in pan with heads together, and fill spaces with smaller fish ; 
when ready to turn, put a plate over, drain off fat, invert pan, and 
the fish will be left unbroken on the plate. Put the lard back in 
the pan, and when hot, slip back the fish, and when the other side is 
brown, drain, turn on plate as before, and slide them on the platter 
to go to the table. This improves the appearance, if not the flavor. 
The heads should be left on, and the shape preserved as fully as 
possible. 

Steamed Fish. 

Place tail of fish in its mouth and secure it, lay on a plate, pour 
over it a half pint of vinegar, seasoned with pepper and salt; let 



158 



FISH. 



stand an hour in the refrigerator, pour off the vinegar, and put in 
a steamer over boilhig water ; steam twenty minutes, or longer if 
the fish is very large (when done the meat ea.><ily parts from the 
bone) ; drain well, and serve on a napkin garnished with curled 
parsley. Serve drawn butter in a boat. — Mrs. E. S. Miller, 

Stewed Fish. 

Cut a fish across in slices an inch and a half thick, and sprinkle 
with salt; boil two sliced onions until done, p)ur off water, season 
with pepper, add two tea-cups hot water and a little parsley, and in 
this simmer the fish until thoroughly done. Serve hot. Good 
method for any fresh- water fish. 

TURBOT. 

Take a white fish, steam till tender, take out bones, and sprinkle 
with pepper and salt. For dressing, heat a pint of milk, and thicken 
with a quarter pound of flour ; when cool, add two eggs and a quarter 
pound of butter, and season with onion and parsley (very little of 
each); put in the baking-dish a layer of fish, then a layer of sauce, 
till full, cover the top with bread-crumbs, and bake half an hour.— 
3Irs. EobeH A. Liggett, Detroit, Mich. 



FRUITS. 



The arrangement of fresh fruits for the table affords play for the 
most cultivated taste and not a little real inventive genius. Melons, 
oranges, and indeed all kind of fruits, are appropriate breakfast 
dishes ; and a raised center-piece of mixed fruits furnishes a dehcious 
dessert, and is an indispensable ornament to an elegant dinner-table. 
Melons should be kept on ice, so as to be thoroughly chilled when 
served. Clip the ends of water-melons, cut them across in halves, 
set up on the clipped ends on a platter, and serve the pulp only, 
removing it with a spoon ; or, cut across in slices, and serve with 
rind. Nutmes: melons should be set on the blossom end, and cut in 
several equal pieces from the stem downward, leaving each alternate 
piece still attached ; the others may then be loosened, and the seeds 
removed, when the melon is ready to serve- Fruit should be car^- 
fullv selected. Havana and Florida oranges are the best, but do not 
keep well, and on the whole, the Messina are preferable. A rough 
yellow skin covers the sweetest oranges, the smooth being more juicy 
and acid ; a greenish tinge indicates that they were picked unripe. 
The Messina lemons, " November cut," are the best, and come into 
market in the spring. Freestone peaches with yellow^ meat are the 
handsomest, l)ut not always the sweetest. California pears take the 
lead for flavor, the Bartlett being the best. The best winter }^ar 
is the ''Winter Nellis." The "Pound" pear is the largest, but is 
good only for cooking. Fine-grained pears are best for eating. A 
pyramid of grapes made up of Malagas, Delawares, and Concords, 
makes a showy center-piece and a delicious dessert. The Malaga 
leads all foreign grapes, and comes packed in cork-dust, which is a 
non-conductor of heat and absorbent of moisture, and so is always in 

(159) 



160 



FR UITS. 



good condition. Of native grapes, the Delaware keeps longest. In 
pine-apples the "Strawberry" is best, while the "Sugar-Loaf" 
ranks next, but they are so perishable that to keep even for a few 
davs they must be cooked. When served fresh they should be cut 
ill small squares and sprinkled with sugar. Buy cocoa-nuts cautiously 
in summer, heat htun^ Hkelv to sour the milk. In almonds, the 
Princess is the best variety to buy in the shell ; of the shelled, the 
"Jordan" is the finest, though the "Sicily" is good. For cake or 
confectionery, the shelled are most economical. In raisins, the " Seed- 
less "rank first for puddings and fine cakes, but the "Valencia" 
are cheaper, and more commonly used; for table use, loose "Mus- 
catels" and layer raisins (of which the "London Layer" is the 
choicest brand) take the preference. In melons, every section has 
its favorite varieties, any of which make a wholesome and luscious 
dessert disli. Sliced fruits or berries are more attractive and pala- 
table sprinkled with sugar about an hour before serving, and then 
with pounded ice just before sending to the table. An apple-corer, 
a cheap tin tube, made by any tinner, is indispensable in preparing 
apples for cooking. They are made in two sizes, one for crab-apples 
and the other for larger varieties. 

If the market is depended upon select the freshest berries ; and 
sometimes it will be found that the largest are not the sweetest. If 
clean, and not gritty, do not wash them, but pick over carefully, 
place first a layer of berries then sprinkle sugar, and so on; set 
away in a cool place, and just before serving sprinkle with pounded 
ice. If they must be washed, take a dish of cold, soft water, pour 
a few^ in, and with the hand press them down a few times, until 
they look clean, then hull them. Repeat the process till all are 
hulled, sugar and prepare as above. Never drain in a colander. The 
Frenr;h serve large fine strawberries without being hulled. Pulver- 
ized sugar is passed, the strawberry is taken by the hull with the 
thumb and finger, dipped into the sugar, and eaten. When berries 
are left, scald for a few minutes ; too much cooking spoils the flavor. 
Some think many of the sour berries are improved by slightly cook- 
ing them w^th a little sugar before serving. If a part of the berries 
are badly bruised, gritty, etc. (but not sour or bitter), scald, and 
drain them through a fine sieve without pressing them. Sweeten 



FR UITS. 



161 



the juice and serve as a dressing for puddings, short-cakes, etc., or 
can for winter use. 



Ambrosia. 

Six sweet oranges, peeled and sliced (seeds and as much of the 
core as possible taken out), one pine-apple peeled and sliced (the 
canned is equally good), and one large cocoa-nut grated ; alter- 
nate the layers of orange and pine-apple with grated cocoa-nut, and 
sprinkle pulverized sugar over each layer. Or, use six oranges, six 
lemons, and two cocoa-nuts, or only oranges and cocoa-nuts, pre- 
pared as above — Mrs. Theo. Brown. 

Apple Compote. 
Pare the apples, cut the core out, leaving them whole. Make a 
syrup, allowing three-fourths pound of sugar to a pound of fruit ; 
when it comes to a boil put in the fruit and let cook until clear but 
remains whole. Remove the fruit to a glass bowl, and dissolve one- 
third of a box of gelatine in a half tea-cup of hot water, and stir 
briskly into the syrup, first taking off the fire. Then strain it over 
the apples, and set in a cool place to cool. When cold heap whipped 
cream over it. Some add sliced lemons to the syrup, and serve 
with a slice of the lemon on each apple. — Mrs. A. H. Rhea, Nash- 
ville, Tenn. 

Apple Sauce. 

Pare, core and cut in quarters apples that do not cut to pieces 
easily, and put on to stew in cold water with plenty of sugar. 
Cover close and stew an hour or more. The addition of the sugar 
at first preserves the pieces whole. If they are preferred finely 
mashed, add sugar after they are done. 

Baked Apples. 
Cut out the blossoms and stems of tart apples, in the stem end 
put some sugar ; bake till soft ; serve either warm or cold. Sweet 
apples require a longer time for baking than sour, and are better 
for adding a little water in pan w^hen placed to bake. They require 
several hours, and when done are of a rich, dark brown color. If 
taken out too soon they are insipid. For an extra nice dish, pare 
and core tart apples, place in pan, put butter and sugar in cavity, 
11 



162 



FR UITS. 



and sprinkle cinnamon over them, and serve warm with cream or 
milk. Or, pare and quarter tart apples, put a layer in earthen bak- 
ing-dish, add lumps of butter, and sprinkle with cinnamon, then a 
layer of apples, etc., till dish is full; l)ake till soft. Or, quarter 
and core sour apples without paring, put in baking-dish, sprinkle 
with sugar and bits of butter, add a little water, and bake until 
tender. The proportion of sugar is a gill, and butter half-size of 
an egg, to three pints of apples, and a gill and a half of water. 

Iced Apples. 

Pare and core one dozen large apples, fill with sugar and a little 
butter and nutmeg; bake until nearly done, let cool, and remove to 
another plate, if it can be done without breaking them (if not, pour 
off the juice). Ice tops and sides with caking-ice, and brown lightly; 
serve with cream. — Mrs, R. C. Car.<on, Harrkhurrj. 

Fried Apples. 

Quarter and core apples without paring; prepare frying-pan by 
heating it and putting in beef-drippings, lay the apples in the pan, 
skin side down, sprinkle with a little brown sugar, and when nearly 
done, turn and brown thoroughly. Or, cut in slices across the core, 
and fry like pancakes, turning when brown; serve with granulated 
sugar sprinkled over tliem. 

iiLACK Caps. 

Pare and core tart apples with apple-corer, fill the center with 
sugar, stick four cloves in the top of each, and bake in deep pie- 
plates, with a little water. 

Fried Bananas. 

Peel and slice lengthwise, fry in butter, sprinkle with sugar, and 
serve. Thus prepared they make a nice dessert. The bananas 
must be ripe. 

Iced Currants. 
Wash and drain dry, large bunches of ripe currants, dip into 
beaten Avhites of eggs, put on sieve so they will not touch each 
other, sift powdered sugar thickly over them, and put in a warm 
place till dry. Cherries and grapes may be prepared in the same way. 

Gooseberry Fool. 
Stew^ gooseberries until soft, add sugar, and press through a co- 
lander (earthen is best), then make a boiled custard, or sweeten 



FR UITS. 



163 



enough rich cream (about one gill to each quart), and stir carefully 
into the gooseberries just before sending to table. — Mrs. L. S. W. 

Okanges in Jelly. 
Boil the smallest-sized oranges in water until a straw will easily 
penetrate them, clarify half a pound of sugar for each pound of 
fruit, cut in halves or quarters, and put them to the syrup, set over 
a slow lire until die fruit is clear; then stir into it an ounce or more 
of dissolved isingkiss, and let it boil for a short time longer. Be- 
fore taking it up try the jelly, and if it is not thick enough add 
more isino:kiss, first takinix out the oranges into a deep glass dish, 
and then straining the jelly over them. Lemons may be prepared 
in the same manner. 

Oraxge Pyramid. 
Cut the peel in six or eight equal pieces, making the incisions 
from the stem downward ; peel each piece down al)Out half way, 
and bend it sharply to the right, leaving the peeled orange appar- 
ently in a cup, from which it is removed without much difficulty. 
Pile the oranges so prepared in a pyramid on a high fruit-dish, and 
you have an elegant center-piece. 

Baked Pears. 

Bake washed, unpeeled pears in pan with only a tea-spoon or 
two of water ; sprinkle with the sugar, and serve with their own 
syrup. 

Baked Pie plant. 
Cut in pieces about an inch long, put in ])aking-dish in layers 
with an equal weight of sugar, cover closely and bake. 

Baked Peaches. 
Wash peaches which are nearly or quite ripe, place in a deep 
dish, sprinkle with sugar, cover and bake until tender. 

Stewed Pie-plant . 
Make a rich syrup by adding sugar to water in which long strips 
of orange peel have been boiled until tender, lay into it a singk 
layer of pieces of pie-plant three inches long, and stew gently until 
clear. When done remove and cook another layer. This makes a 
handsome dessert-dish, ornamented with puff-paste cut in fanciful 
shapes. Use one orange to two and a half pounds pie-plant. 



164 



FR UITS. 



Peach Pyramid. 

Cut a dozen peaches in halves, peel and take out stones, crack 
half the seeds, and blanch the kernels ; make a clear boiling syrup 
of one pound of white sugar, and into it put the peaches and ker- 
nels ; boil very gently for ten minutes, take out half the peaches, 
boil the rest for ten minutes longer, and take out all the peaches 
and kernels; mix with the syrup left in the kettle the strained juice 
of three lemons, and an ounce of isinglass dissolved in a little water 
and strained ; boil up once, fill a mold half full of this syrup or 
jelly, let stand until "set," add part of the peaches and a little 
more jelly, and when this is set," add the rest of the peaches, and 
fill up the mold with jelly. This makes an elegant ornament.— 
Miss E. Orissa Dolhear, Cincinnati. 

Frozen Peaches. 
Pare and divide large, fresh, ripe and juicy peaches, sprinkle 
over them granulated sugar, freeze them like ice-cream for an hour ; 
remove them just before serving, and sprinkle with a little more 
sugar. Canned peaches and all kinds of berries may be prepared 
in the same way. — Mrs. A. G. Wilcox, Minneapolis, Minn. 

To Keep Pine- apples. 
Pare and cut out the eyes of a ripe pine-apple, strip all the pulp 
from the core with a silver fork ; to a pint of this add a pound of 
granulated sugar, stir occasionally until sugar is dissolved, put in 
glass fruit-cans, and turn down the covers as closely as possible. 
This will keep a long time. 

Baked Quinces. 
Wash and core ripe quinces, fill with sugar, and bake in baking- 
dish with a little water. 

Compote of Pears. 

Pare and quarter eight nice pears, and put in a porcelain sauce- 
pan with water enough to cook ; put on lid, and cook fruit until 
tender, then remove to a platter ; make a syrup of a pound of 
sugar and a pint of pear-water ; add juice of two lemons and the 
grated rind of one, and put in the pears ; cook them for a few min- 
utes in this syrup, then remove to the dish in which they are to be 



FR UITS. 



165 



molded. Soak an ouiice of gelatine for an hour or two in enough 
water to cover it, and stir it into the hot syrup ; let boil up once 
and turn it over fruit through a strainer. The mold should be 
dipped in cold water before putting in fruit. When cold, turn 
jelly into a dish and serve with whipped cream around the base, or 
pour sweet cream over it in saucers. 

Mock Strawberries. 
Cut ripe peaches and choice well-flavored apples, in proportion 
of three peaches to one apple, into quarters about the size of a 
strawberry, place in alternate layers, sprinkle the top thickly with 
sugar, and add pounded ice; let stand about two hours, mix 
peaches and apples thoroughly, let stand an hour longer, and serve. 
— Miss C. B., yewbiirypoii, Mass. 

Oranged Straw^berries. 
Place a layer of strawberries in a deep dish ; cover the same 
thickly with pulverized sugar ; then a layer of berries, and so on, 
until all are used. Pour over them orange juice, in the proportion 
of three oranges to a quart of berries. Let stand for an hour, and 
just before serving sprinkle with pounded ice. Some use claret, 
grape or currant wine instead of orange juice. 

Strawberries with Whipped Cream. 
Prepare in layers as above, cover with one pint of cream, whites 
of three eggs and a tea-cup of powdered sugar, whipped together 
and flavored with strawberry juice. 

Snow^ Flakes. 

Grate a large cocoa-nut into a glass dish, and serve with cream, 
preserves, jellies or jams. 

Peach Meringue. 
Put on to boil a quart of milk, omitting half a cup with which 
to moisten two table-spoons of corn starch ; when the milk boils, 
add the moistened corn starch : stir constar.tlv till thick, then re- 
move from the fire ; add one table-spoon butter, and allow the mix- 
ture to cool ; then beat in the volks of three ecrers till the mixture 
seems light and creamy ; add half a cup of powdered sugar. Cover 
the bottom of a well -buttered baking-dish with two or three layers 



166 



FE UITS. 



of rich, juicy peaches, pared, halved and stoned ; sprinkle over 
three tal)le -spoons powdered sugar ; pour over them the custard 
carefully, and bake twenty minutes, then spread with the light- 
beaten whites, well sweetened, and return to the oven till a light 
brown. To be eaten warm with a rich sauce, or cold with sweet- 
ened cream. 

Peach Custakd. 

Equal parts rich sliced peaches, green corn pulp and water. 
Sweeten to the taste, and bake twenty minutes. 

Raspbeiuiy Float. 

Crush a pint of very ripe red raspberries with a gill of sugar; 
beat the whites of four eggs to a stiff froth and add gradually a gill 
of powdered sugar ; press the raspberries through a fine strainer to 
avoid the seeds, and by degrees beat in the juice with the egg and 
sugar until so stiff that it stands in peaks. 



GAME. 



Of game h'mh the woodcock outranks all in delicate tenderness 
and sweet flavor. The thigh is especially deemed a choice tidbit. 
The leg is the finest part of the snipe, but generally the breast is 
the most juicy and nutritious part of birds. 

White-meated game should be cooked to well-done ; dark-meated 
p-ame rare. The flesh of wild animals is harder and more solid, 
and has a less proportion of fat and juices to the lean, and is there- 
fore less easy of mastication when eaten within a day, and more 
nutritious, and the flavor more concentrated. Their decided flavor 
recommends them to invalids or others who are satiated with ordi- 
nary food. Keeping game renders it more tender, and brings out 
its flavor. When birds have become tainted, pick clean as soon as 
possible and immerse in new milk for twenty-four hours, when they 
will be quite sweet and fit for cooking. 

Birds should l)e carffulhj dry-picked (removing all feathers that 
come off easily), plunged in a pan of boiling water and skinned, 
drawn, wiped' clean, and all shot removed Game should not be 
washed, unless absolutely necessary for cleanliness. With care in 
dressing, wiping will render them perfectly clean. If necessary to 
wash, clo it quickly and use as little water as possible. The more 
plainly all kinds of game are cooked, the better they retain their 
fine flavor. They require a brisker fire than poultry, but take less 
time to cook. Their color, when done, should be a fine yellowish 
brown. Serve on toast. 

Broiling is a favorite method of cooking game, and all birds are 
exceedin^lv nice roasted. To broil, split down the back, open and 



168 



GAME. 



flatten the breast by covering with a cloth and pounding, jeason 
with pepper, and lay the inside first upon the gridiron ; turn as 
soon as browned, and when almost done take off, place on a plat- 
ter, sprinkle with salt, and return to the gridiron. When done, 
place in a hot dish, butter both sides well, and serve at once. The 
time required is usually about twenty minutes. 

To roast, season with salt and pepper, place a lump of butter 
inside, truss, skewer, and place in oven. The flavor is best pre- 
served without stuffing, but a plain bread-dressing, with a piece of 
salt pork or ham skewered on the bi'east, is very nice. A delicnte 
way of dressing is to place an oyster dipped in the well-beaten yolk 
of an egg or in melted butter, and then rolled in bread crumbs, in- 
side each bird. Allow thirty minutes to roast or longer if stuffed. 
Wild ducks, pheasants and grouse are always best roasted. 

To lard game, cut fat salt pork into thin, narrow strips, thread a 
larding-needle with one of the strips, run the needle under the skin 
and a little of the flesh of the bird, and draw the pork half way 
through, so that the ends of the strips exposed will be of equal 
length. The strips should be about one inch apart. The larding 
interferes with the natural flavor of the bird, but renders it more 
juicy. Many prefer tying a piece of bacon on the breast instead. 

Pigeons should be cooked a long time, as they are usually quite 
lean and tough, and they are better to lie in salt water half an hour, 
or to be parboiled in it for a few minutes. They are nice roasted 
or made into a pie. 

If the wild flavor" of the larger birds, such as pheasants, prairie 
chickens, etc., is disliked, they may be soaked over night in salt 
w^ater, or two or three hours in soda and water, or parboiled with 
an onion or two in the water, and then cooked as desired. The 
coarser kinds of game, such as geese, ducks, etc., may lie in salt 
w^ater for several hours, or be parboiled in it with an onion inside 
each to absorb the rank flavor, and afterwards thoroughly rinsed 
in clear water, stuffed and roasted ; or pare a fresh lemon witliout 
breaking the thin, white, inside skin, put inside the game for a day 
or two, renewing the lemon every twelve hours. This will absorb 
unpleasant flavors from almost all meat and L^ame. Some lav slices 
of onion over game while cooking, and remove before serving. In 



GAME. 



169 



preparing fat wild ducks for invalids, it is a good plan to remove 
the skill, and keep a day or two before cooking. Squirrels should 
be carefully skinned and laid in salt water a short time before cook- 
ing; if old, parboil. They are delicious broiled, and are excellent 
cooked in any way with thin slices of bacon. Venison, as in the 
days of good old Isaac, is still justly considered a sayoury dish." 
The haunch, neck, shoulder and saddle should be roasted; roast or 
broil the breast, and fry or broil the steaks with slices of salt pork. 
Venison requires more time for cooking than beefsteak. The hams 
are excellent pickled, smoked and dried, luit they will not keep so 
long as other smoked meats. 

The garnishes for game are fresh or preserved barberries, currant 
jelly, sliced oranges, and apple sauce. 



Broiled Pheasant or Prairie Chicken. 
Scald and skin, cut off the breast and cut the rest up in joints, 
bemg careful to remove all shot ; put in hot water all except the 
breast (vrhich will be tender enough witliout parboiling), and boil 
until it can be pierced with fork, take out, rub over salt, pepper, 
and butter, and ])roil with breast over brisk fire ; place a lump of 
butter on each piece, and set all in the oven for a few minutes. For 
breakfast, serve on fried mush, and for dinner on toast with a bit 
of currant jelly over each piece. Or it may be served with toast 
cut in pieces about two inches square, over which pour gravy made 
by thickening the liquor in which the birds were boiled, with a 
little butter and flour rubbed together and stirred in while boiling. 
Squirrels may be prepared the same way. — J//^^. W. W. Woods. 

Broiled Quail. 
Split through the back and broil over a hot fire, basting fre- 
quently with butter. When done place a bit of butter on each piece, 
and set in oven a few moments to brown. Serve on pieces of toast 
with currant jelly. Plovers are cooked in the sjimi^ Avay. Pigeons 
should be first parboiled and then broiled. 

Jugged Hare. 

Skin, wipe with a towel dipped in boiling water, to remove the 
loose hairs, dry thoroughly and cut in pieces, strew with pepper and 



170 



GAME. 



salt, fry brown, season with two anchovies, a sprig of thyme, a 
little chopped parsley, nutmeg, mace, cloves, and grated lemon peel. 
Put a laver of the pieces with the seasoning into a wide-mouthed 
jug or a jar, then a layer of bacon sliced very thin, and so on till 
all is used; add a scant half pint of water, cover the jug close and 
put in cold water, let boil three or four houi's, according to the age 
of the hare; take the jug out of kettle, pick out the unmelted 
bacon and make a gravy of a little butter and flour with a little 
catsup. A tea-spoon of lemon peel will heighten the flavor. — Mrs. 
Louise 21. Lincoln. 

Praiiue CiiiCKt:NS. 
Cut out all shot, wash thoroughly but (juickly, using some soda 
in the water, rinse and dry, fill with dressing, sew up with cotton 
thread, and tie down the legs and wings ; place in a steamer over 
hot water till done, remove to a drippi rig-pan, cover with butter, 
sprinkle with salt and pepper, dredge with fl-jur, place in the oven 
and baste with the melted butter until a nice brown ; serve with 
either apple-sauce, cranberries, or currant jelly. —Mrs. Godard. 

QiMii. ox Toast. 
Dry-pick them, singe them with paper, cut off heads, and legs at 
first joint, draw, split down the back, soak in salt and water for 
five or ten minutes, drain and dry with a cloth, lard them with 
bacon or butter, and rub salt over them, place on broiler and turn 
often, dipping tv;o or three times into melted butter; broil about 
twentv minutes. Have readv as manv slices of buttered toast as 
there are birds, and serve a bird, breast upward, on each slice. 
— Mrs. Emma L. Fay. 

Roast Quails. 

Pluck and dress like chickens, wipe clean, and rub both inside 
and out with salt and pepper; stuff with any good dressing, and sew 
up with fine thread; spread with butter and place in an oven with 
a o-ood steadv heat, turnino; and basting often with hot water sea- 
soned with V)utter, salt and pepper ; bake three-cpiarters of an hour. 
Wiien about h:ilf done add a little hot water to the pan, and it is 
well to place a drippivig-pan over them to prevent browning too 
much. Add to the gravy, flour and butter rubbed together, and 
water if needed. 



GAME. 



171 



Roast Haunch of Venison. 

Wash in warm water and dry well with a cloth, butter a sheet of 
white paper and put over the fat, lay in a deep baking-dish with 
a very httle boiling water, cover with a close-titting lid or with a 
coarse paste one-half inch thick. If the latter is used, a thickness or 
two of coarse paper should be laid over the paste. Cook in a mod- 
erately hot oven for from three to four hours, iiccording to ihe size 
of the haunch, and about twenty minutes before it is done quicken 
the fire, remove the paste and paper or dish-cover, dredge the joint 
with flour and baste well with butter until it is nicely frothed and of 
a delicate ]3rown color; garnish the knuckle-bone with a frill of white 
paper, and serve with a gravy made from its own dripping, having 
first removed the fat. Have the dishes on which the venison is 
served and the plates very hot. Always serve with currant jelly. 

Roast Goose. 

The eoose should not be more than eight months old, and the 
fatter the more tender and juicy the meat. A " green" goose (four 
months old) is the choicest. Kill at least twenty-four hours before 
cooking; cut the neck close to the back, beat the breast-bone flat 
with a rolling-pin, tie the wings and legs securely, and stuff with the 
following mixture : three pints bread crumbs, six ounces butter or 
part butter and part salt pork, two chopped onions, one tea-spoon 
each of sage, black |)e])per and salt. Do not stuff very full, and 
stitch openings firndy together to keep flavor in and fat out. If the 
goose is not fat, lard it with salt pork, or tie a slice on the breast. 
Place in a baking-pan with a little water, and baste frequently with 
salt and water (some add onion and some vinegar), turning often so 
that the sides and back may all be nicely browned. When nearly 
done baste with luittor and a little flour. Bake two hours, or more 
if old; when done take from the pan, pour off the fit, and to the 
brown gravv left add the chopped giblets whicli have previously 
been stewed\ill tender, together with the water they were lM)iled in; 
thicken with a little flour and butter rubbed together, bring to a 
boil, and serve with currant jellv. Apple sauce and onion sauce 
are proper accompaniments to roast goose. — Mrs. J. H. Shearer. 



172 



GAME, 



Roast Duck. 

Ducks are dressed and stuffed in the same manner as above. 
Young ducks should roast from twenty-five to thirty minutes ; full- 
grown for an hour or more with frequent basting. Some prefer 
them underdone, served very hot, but thorough cooking will prove 
more generally palatable. Serve with currant jelly, apple sauce, 
and green })ease. If old, parboil before roasting. 

Place the remains of a cold roast duck in a stew-pan with a pint 
of gravy and a little sage, cover closely, and let it simmer for half 
an hour ; add a pint of boiled green pease, stew a few^ minutes, 
remove to a dish, and p)ur over it the gravy and pease. 

Boiled Duck. 

Dress and rub well inside with salt and pepper, truss and tie in 
shape, drawing the legs in to the bodv, in which put one or two sao-e 
leaves, a little finely-chopped onion, and a little jellied stock or 
gravy; rub over with salt and pepper; make a paste in the propor- 
tion of one-half |X)und butter to one pound flour, in which inclose 
the duck, tie a cloth around all, and boil two hours or until quite 
tender, keeping it well covered with boiling water. Serve by pour- 
ing round it brown gi-avy made as follows : Put a lumxp of butter 
of the size of an egg in a sauce-pan with a little minced onion; cook 
until slightly brown, then adding a small table-spooii of flour, stir 
well, and when quite brown add a half pint stock or water; let 
cook a few minutes, strain, and add to the chopped giblets, previ- 
ously stewed till tender.— J//'.s\ L. S. WiUkton. 

Reed Birds. 

Roasting by suspending on the little wire which accompanies the 
roaster, is the best method ; turn and l)aste frequently, or wash and 
peel with as thin a paring as possible large potatoes of equal size, 
cut a deep slice off one end of each, and scoop out a ])art of the po- 
tato ; drop a piece of butter into each bird, pepi>er and salt, and put 
it m the hollows made in the ])otatoes; put on as covers the pieces 
cut ofl; and clip the other end f )r tlieni to stand on. Set in a bak- 
ing pan upright, with a little water to prevent burning, bake slowly,, 
and serve in the dish in which thev were baked. 

Or, boil in a crust like dumplings. 



GAME. 



173 



Eabbits. 

Kabbits, which are in the best condition in midwinter, may be 
fricasseed like chicken in white or brown sauce. To make a pie, first 
stew till tender, and make like chicken-pie. To roast, stuff with a 
dressing made of bread-crumbs, chopped salt pork, thyme, onion, 
and pepper and salt, sew up, rub over Avith a little butter, or pin on 
it a few slices of salt pork, add a little water in the pan, and baste 
often. Serve with mashed potatoes and currant jelly. 

Snipe. 

Snipe are best roasted with a piece of pork tied to the breast, or 
they may be stuffed and baked. — 3frs. M. R. 

Salmi of Duck. 
Save remnants of cold duck or other game, trim meat off neatly, 

set aside; place all the remains (bones, gravy, etc.) in a sauce-pan 

and cover with cold water ; bring gently to a boil ; skim, add an 

onion that has been cut up and fried brown {not burned) ; simmer 

gently for about an hour, then set the sauce-pan in a cool place 

long: enouo-h to allow the fat to rise and ''settle on top;" skim this 

off carefully— it will be nice to fry potatoes with. Xow return the 

sauce-pan to the fire, and when about to boil strain off the licjuid ; 

set on again, add salt and skim. If the liquid looks cloudy, let it 

boil up, throw in a little cold water, and the scum will rise. Now 

put in the pepper and stich spice as may be desired, also a bunch 

of herbs tied up in a piece of muslin, or very finely powdered. 

Take a large spoon of flour that has been baked in the oven and 

kept for gravy, mix it well with a lump of butter same size, put 

this and the meat all in together and stir well until it is just ready 

to boil again, but see that it doe^ not boil; cover closely and set back 

w^here it may keep very hot without cooking. The safest plan is to 

put the sauce-pan in a vessel of hot water for ten or fifteen minutes. 

Fried Woodcock. 

Dress, wipe clean, tie the legs, skin the head and neck, turn the 
beak under the wing and tie it; tie a piece of bacon over it, and im- 
merse in hot fat for two or three minutes. Serve on toast. 

Another favorite way is to split them through the back and 
broil, basting with butter, and serving on toast. They may also be 
roasted whole before the fire for fifteen or twenty minutes. 



ICES AXD ICE-CREAM. 



Perfectly fresh sweet cream makes the most delicious ice-cream. 
A substitute is a preparation of boiled new milk, etc., made late in 
the evening if for dinner, in the morning if for tea, and placed on ice. 
One mixture is a custard made as follows : Take two (piarts new milk, 
put on three pints to ])oil in a custard -kettle, or a pail set within a 
kettle of boiling water, heat yolks and whites of eight eggs sepa- 
rately, mix tlie yolks with the reniaining ])hit and ^tir si oivlij into the 
boiling milk, l>)il two minutes, remove ih>m the stove, Iminediately 
add one and a lialf pounds sugar, let it dissolve, strain while hot 
through a ^-v^^.^ t > vel, cool, add one rpiart ricli cream and two table- 
spoons v:uiilla '^or season to taste, remend)ering that the strength of 
the flavoring and also the sweetness is very nuich diminished by 
the freezing). Set the custard and also the Avhites (not beaten) in a 
cool place until needed, and about three hours before serving begin 
the preparations for freezing. Put tlie ice in a coarse coffee-sack, 
pound with an ax or mallet until tlie lumps are no larirer than a 
small hickory-nut ; see that the freezer is properly set in the tub, 
the beater in. and the cover secure ; place around it a layer of ice 
about three inches thick, then a layer of coarse salt — rock salt is 
best — then ice again, then salt, and so on. until packed full, with a 
layer of ice last. The proportion shoukl ])e about three-fourths ice 
and one-f()urth salt. Pack very solid, pounding \\\{\\ a broom-handle 
or stick, then remove the cover and pour the custard to which yon 
have just added the well-whipped whites into the freezer, filling two- 
thirds full to give room for expansion ; replace the cover and begin 
turning the freezer; after ten minutes pack the ice down again, 
drain off most of the water, add more ice and turn again^ repeat- 



ICES AXD ICE-CREAM. 



175 



ing this operation several times until the cream is "well frozen, and 
you can no longer turn the beater. (Tlie above quantity ought to 
freeze in half an hour, hwt the moi'e i)ure cream used the longer it 
takes to freeze.) Brush the ice and salt from and remove the 
cover, take out the beater, scrape the cream down from the sides 
of freezer, beat well several minutes with a wooden paddle, replace 
the cover, hll the hole Avith a cork, pour off all the water, pack 
again with ice (using salt at the bottom, but none at the top of tub), 
heap the ice on the cover, spread over it a piece of carpet or a thick 
woolen blanket, and set away in a cool place until needed ; or, if 
molds are used, fill them when you remove the bt-ater, packing the 
cream in verv tifditlv, and ])lace in ice and salt for two hours. To 
remove the cream, dip the molds for an instant in w\arm water. 
When cream is used in making ice-cream, it is better to whip a part 
of it, and add just as the cream is beginning to set. 

Coffee ice-cream should be thickened with arrowroot; the flavor- 
ing for almond cream should be prepared by pouitding the kernels 
to a paste with rose-water, using arrowroot for thickening. For 
cocoa-nut cream, grate cocoa-nut and add to the cream and sugar 
just bef(»re freezing. The milk should never be heated for pine- 
apple, strawberry, or raspberry cream. Berry flavors are made best 
by allowing whole berries to stand for avN'hile well sprinkled with 
sugar, mashing, straining the juice, adding sugar to it, and stirring 
it into the cr^^am. For a quart of cream, allow a quart of fruit and 
a pound of sniiar. In addition to this, add whipped cream and 
sweeteiUMl wliole berries, just as the cream is beginning to set, hi 
the pro})ortion of a cup of berries and a pint of whi})ped cream to 
three pints of the frozen mixture. Canned berries may be used in 
the same way. A pint of berries or peaches, cut fine, added to a 
quart of ordinary ice-cream, while in process of freezing, makes a 
delicious fruit ice-crea!:2. 

Freeze ice-cream in a warm place (the more ra}>id tlie melting of 
the ice the quicker the cream freezes), always be ing ca.reful that no 
salt or water ircts within the freezer. If cream begins to melt 
while serving, beat up well from the bottom with a long wooden 
paddle. Water-ices are made from the juices of frtiits, mixed with 
Avater, sweetened, and frozen like cream. In making them, if they 



176 



ICES A}sD ICE-CREAM. 



are not well mixed before freezing, the sugar will sink to the bot- 
tom, and the mixture will have a sharp, unpleasant taste. It is a 
better plan to make a syrup of the sugar and water, by boiling 
and skimming when necessary, and, when cold, add the juice of the 
fruit. 

The following directions for making " self-freezing ice cream" are 
from ''Common Sense in the Household." After preparing the 
freezer as above, but leaving out the ])eater, remove the lid care- 
fully, and with a long wooden ladle or flat stick beat the custard as 
you would batter steadily for five or six minutes. Replace the lid, 
pack two inches of pounded ice over it; spread above all several 
folds of blanket or carpet, and leave it untouched for an hour; at 
the end of that time remove the ice from above the freezer-lid, wipe 
off carefully and open the freezer. Its sides will be lined with a 
thick layer of frozen cream. Displace this with the ladle or a long 
knife, working every part of it loose ; beat up the custard again 
firmly and vi«:orously for fifteen or twenty minutes, until it is all 
smooth, half-congealed paste. The perfection of the ice-cream de- 
pends upon the thoroughness of the beating at this point. Put on 
the cover again, pack in more ice and salt, turn ofi* the brine, cover 
the freezer entirely with the ice, and spread over all the carpet. 
At the end of two or three hours more, again turn ofi* the brine and 
add fresh ice and salt, but do not open the freezer for two hours 
more. At that time take the freezer from the ice, open it, wrap a 
towel wet in hot water about the lower part, and turn out a solid 
column of ice-cream, close grained, firm, delicious. Any of the 
recipes for custard ice-cream may be frozen in this way. 

Ice-creams may be formed into fimciful shapes by the use of 
molds. After the cream is frozen, place in mold, and set in 
pounded ice and salt until ready to serve. Cream may be frozen 
withotit a patent freezer, b}" simply placing it in a covered tin pail, 
and setting the latter in an ordinary wooden bucket, and proceed 
exactly as directed for self-freezing ice-cream, packing into the space 
between them, very firmly, a mixture of one part salt to two parts 
of snow or pounded ice. When the space is full to within an inch 
of the top, remove cover. 



ICES AND ICE-CREAM. 



177 



Chocolati: Ice -Ciieam. 
Scald one pint new milk, add by degrees three-quarters of a 
pound sugar, two eggs, and five table-spoi^ns chocolate, rub smooth 
in a little milk. Beat ^vell for a moment or two, place over the 
fire and heat until it thickens well, stirring constantly, set oti', add 
a table-spoon (»f thin, dissolved gelatine, and when cold, place in 
freezer ; when it l)egins to set, add a quurt of rich cream, half of it 
well whipped. 

To make a mold of chocolate and vanilla, freeze in separate 
freezers, divide a mold througii the center with card-board, till each 
division with a diflerent cream, and set mold in ice and salt for an 
hour or more. 

To make chocolate fruit ice-cream, when almost frozen, add a 
coffee-cup of preserved peaches, or any other preserves, cut in fine 
pieces. 

EgGtLESs I(7>crj:AM. 
A scant tea-cup flour to two^quarts new milk ; pt>t three pints on 
to boil ( in tin pail set in a kettle of boiling water), mix the flour 
with the other pint till smooth, then stir it in the boihng milk; let 
it boil ten or fifteen minutes, and, just l^efore taking it from the fire, 
stir in one and a half pounds pulverized sugar (any good white 
sugar will do;. Care must be taken to stir all the time after put- 
tino: in the sugar, onlv letting it remain a moment, or jtist long 
enouo-h to dissolve it ; take from stove, and strain at once through 
a crash towel. AMien cold, add one quart cream. Flavor with 
vanilla, in the proportion of one and a f )urth table-spoons to a gallon. 
— Mrs. Lihhie Dolhear. 

Fruit Fkapees. 
Line a mold with vanilla ice-cream, fill the center with fresh 
berries, or fruit cut in shoes, cover with ice-cream, cover closely, 
and set in freezer for half an hour, with salt and ice well packed 
around it. The fruit must be chilled, but not frozen. Strawber- 
ries and ripe peaches are delicious thus prepared. — Mrs. J. C. P., 
Stockbridge, Mass. 

Ice-cream. 

Three pints sweet cream, quart new milk, pint powdered sugar, 
the whites of two eggs beaten light, table-spoon vanilla ; put in 
12 



178 



ICES AND ICE- CUE AM, 



freezer till thoroughly chilled through, and then freeze. This is 
very easily made. — Mrs. Cogswell, Neiv York. 

Ice-cream. 

One quart new milk, two eggs, two table-spoons corn starch ; 
heat the milk in a dish set in hot water, then stir in the corn starch 
mixed smooth in a little of the milk ; let it boil for one or two 
minutes, then remove from stove and cool, and stir in the egg and 
a half pound sugar. If to be extra nice, add a pint of rich cream, 
and one-fourth pound sugar, strain the mixture, and when cool add 
the flavoring, and freeze as follows: Prepare freezer in the usual 
manner, turn the crank one hundred times, then pour upon the 
ice and salt a quart boiling water from the tea-kettle. Fill up 
again with ice and salt, turn the crank fifty times one way and 
tw^enty-five the other (which serves to scrape the cream from sides 
of freezer) ; by this time it will turn very hard, indicating that the 
cream is frozen sufficiently. — Mrs. Wm. Herrick, Minneapolis, Minn, 

Lemox Ice-cream. 
Squeeze a dozen lemons, make the juice quite thick with white 
sugar, stir into it very slowly, three quarts of cream, and freeze. 
Orange ice-cream is prepared in the same way, using less sugar. 

Pine-apple Ice-cream. 
Three pints cream, two large ripe pine-apples, two pounds pow- 
dered sugar ; slice the pine-apples thin, scatter the sugar between 
the slices, cover and let the fruit stand three hours, cut or chop it 
up in the syrup, and strain through a hair-sieve or double bag of 
coarse lace ; beat gradually into the cream, and freeze as rapidly as 
possible ; leserve a few pieces of pine-apple unsugared, cut into 
square bits, and stir through cream when half frozen, first a pint of 
well-whipped cream, and then the fruit. Peach ice-cream may be 
made in the same way. — Mrs. L. M. T., Xeiv York City. 

Strawberry Ice-cream. 
Sprinkle strawberries with sugar, wash well and rub through a 
sieve; to a pint of the juice add half a pint of good cream, make 
it very sweet; freeze, and when beginning to set, stir in lightly one 
pint of cream whipped, and lastly a handful of whole strawberrie:^ 



ICES AND ICE-CREAM. 



179 



sweetened. It may then be put in a mold and imbedded in ice, or 
kept in the freezer ; or mash with a potato-pounder h\ an earthen 
bowl one quart of strawberries with one pound of sugar; rub it 
through a colander, add one quart of sweet cream and freeze. Or, 
if not in the strawberry season, use the French bottled strawberries 
(or any canned ones), mix juice with half a pint of cream, sweeten 
and freeze ; when partially set add whipped cream and strawberries. 

Kentucky Cream. 
^Nlake a half gallon rich boiled custard, sweeten to taste, add two 
table-spoons gelatine dissolved in a half cup cold milk; let the cus- 
tard cool, put it in freezer, and as soon as it begins to freeze, add 
one pound raisins, one pint strawberry preserves, one quart whipped 
cream; stir and beat well like ice-cream. Blanched almonds or 
grated cocoa-nut are additions. Some prefer currants to raisins, 
and some also add citron chopped fine.— il/r8. Gov. J. B. McCreary, 
Kmtmhj. 

Apple Ice. 

Grate, sweeten and freeze well-flavored apples, pears, peaches or 
quinces. Canned fruit may be mashed and prepared in the same 
way. 

Currant Ice. 

Boil down three pints of water and a pound and a half sugar to 
one quart, skim, add two cups of currant juice, and when partly- 
frozen, add the whites of five eggs. 

Lemon Ice. 

To one pint of lemon juice, add one quart of sugar, and one 
quart of water, in which the thin rind of three lemons has been 
allowed to j^taiid until highly flavored. When partly frozen add 
the whites of four eggs, beaten to a stifi' froth. 

ORANfiE Ice. 

Boil three-quarters of a poiuid of sugar in one quart of w^ater ; 
when cool add the jttice of six oranges ; steep the rinds in a little 
water, strain, and flavor to taste with it. The juice and rind of 
one or two lemons added to the orange is a great improvement. 
Freeze like ice-cream. 

Strawberry Ice. 
Mash two quarts of strawberries with two pounds of sugar; let 



180 



ICES AND ICE-CREAM. 



stand an hour or more, squeeze in a straining cloth, pressing out 
all the juice; ad<l an equal measure of water; and wlien half frozen, 
add the beaten whites of eggs in the proportion of three eggs to a 
quart. 

Tea Ice-cream. 

Pour over four table-spoons of Old Hyson tea, a pint of cream, 
scald in a custard-kettle, or by placing the dish containing it in a 
kettle of boiling water, remove from the fire, and let stand five 
minutes; strain it into a pint of cold cream, put on to scald again, 
and when hot mix with it four eggs and three-fourths pound sugar, 
■well beaten together; let cool and freeze. — Miss A. C. L., Pittsjieldy 
Mass. 

Water Ice. 

To a quart of water, add one pound of sugar, flavor to taste, and 
freeze. 



JELLIES AND JAMS 



Jellies were formerly reputed nourishing, digestible, and fit food 
for sick and delicate persons, but modern investigation places them 
second to the lean part of animals and birds. When made of gela- 
tine, they have no nutrition, and are simply used to carry a pala- 
table flavor. 

Always make jellies in a porcelain kettle, if possible, but brass 
may be used if scoured very bright and the fruit is removed iiiime- 
diately on taking from the fire. Use the best refined or granulated 
sugar, and do not have the fruit, especially currants and grapes, 
overripe. 

To extract the juice, place fruit in kettle with just enough water 
to keep from burning, stir often, and let remain on the fire until 
thoroughly scalded ; or a better but rather slower method is to place 
it in a stone jar set within a kettle of tepid water, boil until the 
fruit is well softened, stirring frequently, and then strain a small 
quantity at a time through a strong coarse flannel or cotton bag 
wrung out of hot water, after which let it drain, and squeeze it with 
the hands as it cools, emptying the bag and rinsing it off each time 
it is used. The larger fruits, such as apples and quinces, should be 
cut in pieces, cores removed if at all defective, water added to just 
cover them, boiled gently until tender, turned into bag and placed 
to drain for three or four hours, or over night. Make not over two 
or three pints of jelly at a time, as larger quantities require longer 
boilinix. As a general rule allow equal measures juice and sugar. 
Boil juice rapidly ten minutes from the first moment of boiling, 
skim, add sugar, and boil ten minutes longer; or spread the sugar 

(181) 



182 



JELLIES AND JAMS. 



iu a large dripping-pan, set in the oven, stir often to prevent burn- 
ing, boil the juice just twenty minutes, add the hot sugar, let boil 
up once, and pour into the jelly-glasses immediately, as a thin skin 
forms over the surface which keeps out the air ; cover with brandied 
tissue paper, cut to fit glass closely, cool quickly and set in a dry, 
cool, dark phice. Jelly should be examined toward the end of sum- 
mer, and if there are any signs of fermentation, reboil. Jelly needs 
more attention in damp, rainy seasons than in others. To test jelly, 
drop a little in a glass of very cold water, and if it immediately 
falls to the bottom it is done ; or drop in a saucer, and set on ice or 
in a cool place ; if it does not spread, but remains rounded, it is 
finished. Some strain through the bag into the glasses, but this 
involves waste, and if skimming is carefully done is not necessary. 
A little butter or lard, rubbed with a cloth on tlie outside of glasses 
or cans, will enable one to pour in the boiling fruit or liquid, the 
first spoon or two slowly, without breaking the glass. If jelly is 
not very firm, let it stand in the sun covered with bits of window- 
glass or pieces of mosquito netting, for a few days. Never attempt 
to make jelly in damp or cloudy weather if firmness and clearness 
are desired. Use a wooden or silver spoon to stir, dip with earthen 
cup, and cook in porcelain-lined kettles. Currants and berries 
should be made up as soon as picked ; never let them stand over 
night. When ready to put away, cover with pieces of tissue or 
WTiting-paper cut to fit and pressed closely upon the jelly, and put 
on the lid or cover with thick paper, brushed over on the inside 
with the white of an egg, and turned down on the outside of glass. 

Apple or Blackberry Jelly. 
Prepare nice, tart, juicy apples as in general directions, using three 
quarters of a pint of sugar to a pint of juice. Prepare blackberry 
jelly according to general directions for berries. 

CalfV-foot Jelly. 
Cut across the first joint, and through the hoof, place in a large 
sauce-pan, cover with cold water, and bring quickly to the boiling 
point; when water boils, remove them, and wash thoroughly in 
cold w^ater. When perfectly clean put into a porcelain-lined sauce- 
pan, add cold water in the proportion of three pints to two calfs 



JELLIES AND JAMS. 



183 



feet, put sauce-pan over fire, and when water boils, set aside to a 
cooler place, where it will simmer very slowly for five hours ; strain 
the liquor through a fine sieve, or a coarse towel, let it stand over 
night to set, remove the fat that has risen to the top, dip a towel in 
boiling water, and wash the surface, which will be quite firm. Now 
place in a porcelain-lined sauce-pan, and melt, add juice of t\vo 
lemons, rinds of three cut into strips, one-fourth pound of cut loaf- 
sugar, ten cloves, and one inch of cinnamon stick. Put the whites 
of three eggs, together with the shells (which must first be blanched 
in boiling water), into a bowl, beat them slightly, and pour them 
into the sauce-pan, continuing to use the egg-beater until the whole 
boils, when the pan should be drawn aside where it will simmer 
gently for ten minutes, skimming oft' all scum as it rises. While 
simmering, prepare a piece of flannel by pouring through it a little 
warm water; and when the jelly has simmered ten minutes, pour 
it through this bag into a bowl, and repeat the process of straining 
until it is perfectly clear, when add a half gill of sherry (or brandy, 
or brandy and sherry mixed in equal proportions), stir well, pour 
into molds, and place upon ice or in a cool place until jelly sets and 
becomes firm enough to turn out and serve. 

Currant Jelly. 
Do not pick from the stem, but carefully remove all leaves and 
imperfect fruit, place in a stone jar, and follow general directions; 
or place one pint currants, picked oft* the stem, and one pint sugar, 
in the kettle on the stove, scald well, skim out currants, and dry 
on plates; or make into jam with one-third currants and two-thirds 
raspberries, straining juice after sweetening, and cooking until it 
*'jellies." After currants are dried put them in stone jars and 
cover closely. — Mv^. A, B. M. 

Cranberry Jelly. 
Prepare juice as in general directions, add one pound sugar to 
every pint, boil and s"kim, test by dropping a little into cold water 
(when it does not mingle with the water it is done), rinse glasses 
in cold water before pouring in the jelly to prevent sticking. The 
pulp may be sweetened and used for sauce. — C. G. & E, W. 
Crane, Caldivell, N. J. 



184 



JELLIES ASB JAMS, 



Crab Apple Jelly. 

\yash and quarter large Siberian crabs, but do not core, cover 
to tlie deptii of an incii or two with cold water, and cook to a 
mush ; pour into a coarse cotton bag or strainer, and when cool 
enough, press or squeeze hard, to extract all the juice. Take a 
piece of fine Swiss muslin or crinoline, wring out of water, spread 
over a colander placed over a crock, and with a cup dip the juice 
slowly in, allowing plenty of time to run through ; repeat this pro- 
cess twice, rinsing out the muslin frequently. Allow the strained 
juice of four lemons to a peck of apples, and three quarters of a 
pound of sugar to each pint of juice. Boil the juice from ten to 
tw^enty minutes; while boiling sift in the sugar slowly, stirring con- 
stantly, and boil five minutes longer. This is generally sufficient, 
but it is always safer to " try it," and ascertiiin whether it will 
jelly." This makes a very clear, sparkling jelly. — Mrs. Carol 
Gaytes, Miverside, III. 

Coffee Jelly. 

Half box Coxe's gelatine soaked half an hour in a half tea-cup 
cold water (as little water as possible), one quart strong coffee, 
made as if for the table and sweetened to taste ; add the dissolved 
gelatine to the hot coffee, stir well, strain into a mold rinsed with 
cold water just before usiug, set on ice or in a very cool place, and 
serve with whipped cream. This jelly is very pretty, formed in a 
circular mold with tube in center ; when turned out fill the space 
in center with whipped cream heaped up a little. — Mrs. A. Wikon, 
Eye,N. Y. 

Easter Jelly. 

Color calf s-foot jelly a bright yellow by steeping a small quantity 
of dried saffron leaves in the water. Pare lemons in long strips 
about the width of a straw, boil in water until tender, throw them 
into a rich syrup, and boil until clear. ^Nlake a blanc-mange of 
cream, color one-third pink with poke-berry syrup, one-third green 
TV'ith spinach, aud leave the other white. Pour out eggs from a hole 
a half inch in diameter in the large end, wash and drain the shells 
carefully, set them in a basin of salt to fill, and pour in the blanc- 
mange slowly through a funnel, and place the dish in a refrigerator 
for several hours. When ready to serve, select a round, shallow 



JELLIES AND JAMS. 



180^ 



dish about as large a.s a heu's nest, form the jelly in it as a lining, 
scatter the strips of lemon peel over the edge like straws, remove 
the egg-sliells carefully from the blanc-mange, and fill the nest with 
them.— J//--8. C. 3/. Coates, Philadelphia, 

Fouk-Fruit Jelly. 
Take equal quantities of ripe strawberries raspberries, currants, 
and red cherries, all should be fully ripe, and the cherries must be 
stoned, taking care to preserve the juice that escapes in stoning, and 
add it to the rest. Mix the fruit together, put it into a linen 
bag, and squeeze it thoroughly ; when it has ceased to drip, measure 
the juice, and to every pint allow a pound and two ounces of the 
best loiif-sugar, in large lumps. :\lix the juice and sugar together; 
put them in a porcelain dined preserving kettle, and boil for half an 
hour, skimming frequently. Try the jelly by dipping out a spoon^ 
ful, and holding it in the open air ; if it congeals readily it is suffix 
ciently done. ThisjcUij is very fine.— Mrs. E. S. Miller. 

Gkale Jelly. 

Prepare fruit and rub through a sieve; to every pound of pulp 
add a pound of sugar, stir well together, boil slowly twenty minutes, 
then follow general directions; or, prepare the juice, boil twenty 
mhmtes, and add one pound of sugar to one pound of juice after it 
is reduced bv l)oiling ; then boil ten or fifteen minutes. Or put on 
grapes just beginning to turn, l)od, place in jelb,-bag and let drain; 
to one pint juice add one pint sugar, Ijoil twenty minutes, and just 
before it is done add one tea-spoon dissolved gum-arabic. 

Le:viox Jelly. 

Three good-sized lemons sliced, hidf a pound wliite sugar, two 
ounces isinglass or gelatine dissolved in twoquavt^ of cold water, a 
stick of cinnamon, and a little grated nutmeg. Beat tlie whites of 
three or four eggs, and when the gelatine is all dissolved stir them 
well with the other ingredients; boil five minutes, strain through a 
flannel iellv-ba- into mohls and set on ice; or the eggs, cinnamon 
and nutmeo; mav be omitted. — J//»' Ella Ij. Starr. 

Orange Jelly\ 

Two quarts water, four ounces gelatine, nine oranges and three 
lemons, a pound sugar, whites of three eggs ; soak gelatine in a pint 



186 



JELLIES AXD JAMS. 



of water, boil the three pints water and sugar together, skim well, 
add dissolved gelatine, orange and lemon juice, and beaten whites; 
let come to a boil, skim off carefully all scum, boil until it jellies, 
and pour jelly into mold. Strain, scum and add to mold. 

Peacpi Jelly. 

Crack one-third of the kernels and put them in the jar with the 
peaches, which should be pared, stoned and sliced. Heat in a pot 
of boiling water, stirring occasionally until the fruit is well broken. 
Strain, and to every pint of peach juice add the juice of a lemon. 
Measure again, and to every pint of peach juice add a pound of 
sugar. Heat the sugar very hot, and add when the juice has boiled 
twenty minutes. Let it come to a boil and take instantly from the 
fire. This is very fine for jelly cake. 

Quince Jelly. 

Kub the quinces with a cloth until perfectly smooth, cut in small 
pieces, pack tight in a kettle, pour on cold water until level with the 
fruit, boil until very soft ; make a three-cornered flannel bag, pour 
in fruit and hang up to drain, occasionally pressing on the top and 
sides to make the juice run more freely, taking care not to press hard 
enough to expel the pulp. There is not much need of pressing a 
bag made in this shape, as the weight of the fruit in the larger part 
causes the juice to flow freely at the point. To a pint of juice add 
a pint of sugar and boil fifteen minutes, or until it is jelly; pour 
into tumblers, or bowls, and finish according to general directions. 
If quinces are scarce, the parings and cores of quinces with good 
tart apples, boiled and strained as al)ove, make excellent jelly, and 
the quinces are saved for preserves. — J//>\ M. J. W. 

Transcendent Crab-apple Jelly. 

Transcendents or any variety of crab-apples, may be prepared as 
cultivated wild plums, adding flavoring of almond, lemon, peach, 
pine-apple or vanilla to the jelly in the proportion of one tea-spoon 
to two pints, or more if it is wished stronger, just before it is done. 

Plum Jelly. 

If plums are wild (not cultivated) put in pan and sprinkle with 
soda and pour hot water over them, let stand a few moments and 
stir through them ; take out and put on with water just to cover, or 
less if plums are very juicy ; boil till soft, dip out juice with a china 



JELLIES AND JAMS. 



187 



cup ; tlien strain the rest through small salt-bags (by the way, keep 
them for jelly-bags as they are just the thing), do not squeeze them. 
Take pound for pound of juice and sugar, or pint for pint, and boil 
for eight or ten minutes. Jelly will be nicer if only one measure or 
a measure and a half is made at one time ; if more, boil longer ; 
some boil juice ten or fifteen minutes, then add sugar and boil five 
minutes longer. It can be tested by dropping in a saucer and 
placing on ice or in a cool place ; if it does not spread but remains 
rounded it is finished. If the plums are the cultivated wild 
plum, make as above without using the soda. Take the plums 
that are left and press through a sieve, then take pint for pint of 
sugar and pulp, boiling the latter half an hour and then adding 
sugar, boiling ten or fifteen minutes more. Half a pint sugar to a 
pint, makes a rich marmalade, and one-third pint to pint, boiHng it 
longer, is nice canned, and used for pies, adding milk, eggs and 
sugar as for squash pies. 

Plum-apple jelly may be made by preparing the juice of apples 
and plums as above (a nice proportion is one part plums to two 
parts apples ; for instance, one peck of plums to two pecks apples) ; 
then mixing the juice and finish without flavormg. The marma- 
lade is made in the same way as above. Some add a little ginger 
root to it. One bushel of apples and one peck of plums make forty 
pints of jelly, part crab-apple and part mixed, and sixteen quart 
glass cans of mixed marmalade. In making either kind of jelly the 
fruit may be squeezed and the juice strained twice through swiss 
or crinoline and made into jelly. The pulp can not then be used 
for marmalade. 

Pie-plant Jelly. 
Wash the stalks well, cut into pieces an inch long, put them into 
a preserving-kettle with enough water to cover them, and boil to a 
soft pulp; strain through a jelly-bag. To each pint of this juice 
add a pound of loaf-sugar; boil again, skimming often, and when 
it jellies on the skimmer remove it from the fire and put into jars. 



188 



JELLIES AND JAMS. 



JAMS. 



In making jams, the fruit should be carefully cleaned and thor- 
oughly bruised, as mashing it before cooking prevents it from becom- 
ing hard. Boil fifteen or twenty minutes before adding the sugar, 
as the flavor of the fruit is thus better preserved (usually allowing 
three-quarters of a pound of sugar to a pound of fruit), and then 
boil half an hour longer. Jams require almost C(jnstant stirring, 
and every house-keeper should be provided with a small paddle with 
handle at right angles with the blade (similar to an apple-butter 

stirrer," only smaller), to be used in making jams and marmalades. 
Jams are made from the more juicy berries, such as blackberries, 
currants, raspberries, strawberries, etc.; marmalades from the firmer 
fruits, such as pine-apples, peaches and apricots. Both require the 
closest attention, as the slightest degree of burning ruins the flavor. 
They must be l)oiled sufficiently, and have plenty of sugar to keep 
well. 

To tell when any jam or marmalade is sufficiently cooked, take 
out some of it on a plate and let it cool. If no juice or moisture 
gathers about it, and it looks dry and glistening, it is done thor- 
oughly. Put up in glass or small stone jars, and seal or secure like 
canned fruits or jellieg. Keep jellies and jams in a cool, dry, and 
dark place. 

Currant Jam. 

Pick from stems and wash thoroughly with the hands, put into a 
preserving kettle and boil fifteen or twenty minutes, stirring often, 
and skinnning off any scum that may arise ; then add sugar in the 
proportion of three-fourths pound sugar to one pound fruit, or, by 
measure, one coffee-cup of sugar to one pint mashed fruit ; boil thirty 
minutes longer, stirring almost constantly. When done, pour in 
small jars or glasses, and either seal or secure like iellv, bv first 
pressing paper, cut to fit the glasses, down close on the fruit, and 
then larger papers, brushed on the inside witli white of eggs, with 
the edges turned down over the outside of the glass. 



JELLIES AND JAMS. 



189 



Gooseberry Jam. 
Stew the berries in a little water, press through a coarse sieve, 
return to the kettle, add three-fourths pound sugar to each pound 
of the pulped gooseberry ; boil three-quarters of an hour, stirring 
constantly ; pour in jars or bowls, and cover as directed for cur- 
rant jams. 

Grape or Plum Jam. 
Stew in a little water, and press the fruit through a colander or 
coarse sieve, adding a little water to plums to get all the pulp 
through ; add sugar, and finish as in other jams. 

Raspberry Jam. 

Make by itself, or, better, combined with currants in the propor- 
tion of one-third currants to two-thirds raspberries ; mash the fruit 
well, and proceed as in currant jam. 

Make blackberry jam hke raspberry, except that it should not be 
mixed with currants. 

Strawberrv iam is made exactly like blackberry. 



MEATS 



Inattention to the temperature of the water and too early ^kp- 
plication of salt cause great waste in boiling meats. To make fresh 
meat rich and nutritious it should be placed in a kettle of boiling 
water (pure soft water is best), skimmed well as soon as it begins to 
boil again, and placed where it will dowly but constantly boil. The 
meat should be occasionally turned and kept well under the water, 
and fresh hot water supplied as it evaporates in boiling. Plunging 
in hot water hardens the fibrine on the outside, encasing and re- 
taining the rich juices— and the whole theory of correct cooking, in 
a nut-shell, is to retain as much as possible of the nutriment of food. 
No salt should be added until the meat is nearly done, as it extracts 
the juices of the meat if added too soon. Boil gently, as rapid 
boiling hardens the fibrine and renders the meat hard, tasteless, 
and scarcely more nutritious than leatlier, without really hastening 
the process of cooking, every degree of heat beyond the boiling 
point being worse than wasted. There is a pithy saying: "The 
pot should only smile, not laugh." The bubbles should appear in 
one part of the surflice of the water only, not all over it. This 
differs from snnmering," as in the hitter there is merely a sizzhng 
on the side of the pan. Salt meat should be put on in cold water 
so that it may freshen in cooking. Allow twenty nnnutes to the 
pound for fresh, and thirty-five for salt meats, the time to be modi- 
fied, of course, by the quality of tlie meat. A pod of red pepper 
in the water will prevent the un})leasant odor of boiling from fillinf^ 
the house. 

(190) 



MEATS. 



191 



Roasting proper is almost unknown in these days of stoves and 
ranges — baking, a much inferior process, having taken its place. In 
roasting the joint is placed close to a brisk fire, turned so as to ex- 
pose every part to the heat, and then moved back to finish in a 
more moderate heat. The roast should be basted frequently with 
the drippings, and, when half cooked, with salt and water. 

To roast in oven, the preparations are very simple. The fire 
must be brio;ht and the oven hot. The roast will need no washing 
if it comes from a cleanly butcher ; wiping with a towel dampened 
in cold water is all that is needed ; if washing is necessary, dash 
over quickly with cold water and wipe dry. If meat has been kept 
a little too long, wash in vinegar, wipe dry, and dust with a very 
little flour to a]:)sorb the moisture. Place in pan, on a tripod, or two 
or three clean bits of wood laid cross-wise of pan, to keep it out of 
the fat. If meat is very lean, add a table-spoon or two of water ; 
if fat, the juices of the meat will be sufiicient, and the addition of 
the water renders it juiceless and tasteless. While the meat is in 
the oven, keep the fire hot and bright, baste several times, and when 
about half done turn it, always keeping the thick part of the meat 
in the hottest part of the oven. Take care that every part of the 
roast, including the fat of the tenderloin, is cooked so that the text- 
ure is chancred. 

If the fire has been properly made, and the roast is not large, it 
should not require replenishing, but, if necessary, add a little fuel 
at a time, so as not to check the fire, instead of waiting until a 
great deal must be added to keep up the bright heat. Most 
persons like roast beef and mutton underdone, and less time is re- 
quired to cook them than for pork and veal or lamb, which must be 
very well done. Fifteen minutes to the pound and fifteen minutes 
lono-er is the rule for beef and mutton, and twentv minutes to 
the pound and twenty minutes longer for pork, veal and lamb. 
The directions for beef ap])ly equally well to pork, veal, mutton 
and lamb. 1 lulei'done meat is cooked throuii'iiout, so that the 
bright red juices follow the knife of the carver; if it is a livid 
purple it is raw, and unfit for food. AVhen done, the roast should 
be a rich brown, and the bottom of the pan covered with a thick 
glaze. Remove the joint, sift evenly over v/ith fine salt, and it is 



192 



MEATS. 



ready to serve. Never salt bef-*re or ^vhile cookino^, as it draws 
out tlie juices. To pre})are the gravy, pour off the fat gently, 
holdui^'' tlie Dan stoadilv so as not to lose tlie o;ravv Avhieh underlies 
it; put pan <>n the srove, pour into it half a cup of boiling ^\vater 
(vary the (pur.i^irv with the size of the roast; soup of any kind is 
better tli:in wnicr if at hand ), add a little salt, stir witli a spoon 
until \\\r pani-'h-s adhering to the sides of the })an are removed and 
disstjlvedi, lujikiuLi' a rich, brown gravy (some nnx flour and water, 
and adtl as i iiieki-ning;. 

Ill roasting all me;its, success depend- upon basting frequently 
(by dijiping the gravy from the })an over the meat with a large 
spoon ), turning often so as to prevent burning, and carefully regu- 
lating the heat of the oven. Allow fifteen to twenty-five minutes 
to the ])o:iiid in roasting, according as it is to be rare or well done, 
takiiig into eousideration the quality of the meat. Roasts ])repared 
with dressing require more time. In I'oasting meats many think it 
better r.ot to add any water until the meat has been in the oven 
about half an hour, or until it begins to brown. 

Broilin"- is the most wholesome method of cookimr meats, and is 
most acceptable to invalids. Tough steak is made more tender by 
pounding or hacking with a dull knife, but some of the juices are 
lost ])v the operation ; cutting it across in small squares with a sharp 
knife on both sides is better than either. Tough meats are also 
improved bv laying for two hours on a dish containing three or 
four table->poi)ns each of vinegar and salad oil (or butter), a little 
pepper, but no salt ; turn every twenty minutes. The action of the 
oil and vinegar softens the fibers without extracting their juices. 
Trim off all superfluous fat, but never vrash a freshly-cut steak. 
Xever salt or pepi)er steak or chops l^ef )re or while cooking, but if 
very lean, dip in melted butter. Place the steak on a hot, well- 
greased gridiron, turn often so that the outside may be seared at 
once; when done, which will require from five to ten minutes, dish 
on a hot platter, season with salt and pepper and bits of butter, 
cover with a hot platter and serve at once. A small pair of tongs 
are best t*^ turn steaks, as piercing with a fork frees the juices. If 
fat drips ^^n the coals below, the blaze may be extinguished by 
sprinkling with salt, always withdrawing the gridiron to prevent the 



MEATS. 



193 



steak from acquiring a smoky flavor. Always have a brisk fire, 
whether you cook in a patent broiler directly over the fire, or on a 
gridiron over a bed of live coals. Broiling steak is the very last 
thinir to be done in (xettiup; breakfast or dinner ; everv other dish 
should be ready f )r the table, so that this may have the cook's un- 
divided attention. A steel gridiron with slender bars is best, as the 
common broad, flat iron bars fry and scorch tlie meat, imparting a 
disagreeable flavor. In using the patent broilers, such as the 
''American" and the later and better Dover," care must l)e used 
to keep all doors and lids of stove or range closed during the pro- 
cess. The dampers which sluit off the draft to the chimney should 
be thrown open before beginning, to take the flames in that direc 
tion. Never take the hd from broiler without first removing it from 
over the fire, as the smoke and flames rush out past the meat and 
smoke it. 

Frying is properly co(3king in fat enough to cover the article, and 
when the fat is hot, and properly managed, the food is crisped at 
the surfac^e, and does not absorb the fat. The ])rocess of cooking in 
just enough fat to prevent sticking has not yet been named in Eng- 
lish, and is ,<autfinfj, l)Ut is popularly known as frying, and ought 
to be banished from all civilized kitchens. The secret of success in 
frvinc>- is Avhat the French call the '\<urprise." The fire must be 
hot enough to sear the surface and make it impervious to the flit, 
and at the same time seal up the rich juices. As soon as the meat 
is browned by this sudden appliciition of heat, the pan may be 
moved to a cooler place on the stove, that the process may be fin- 
ished more slowlv. For instructions as to heating tlie fat, see what 
is said under head of "Fritters." When hnproperly done, frying 
results in an unwholesome and greasy mi^ss, luifit for food, but with 
care, plenty of fat (which may be used again and again), and the 
right degree of heat, nothing is easier than to produce a crisp, de- 
licious, and liealthful dish. 

To thaw frozen meat, place in a warm room over night, or lay it 
for a few hours in cold water — the latter })lan ])eing the best. The 
ice which forms on the surflice as it thaws is easily removed. If 
cooked before it is entirely thawed, it will be tough. Meat once 
frozen should not be allowed to thaw until just before cooking. 
13 



194 



MEATS. 



The most economical way to cut a ham is to slice, for the same 
meal, from the large end as well as from the thickest part ; in this 
way a part of best and a part of the less desirable is brought on, 
and the waste of the meal is from the poorest, as tlie best is eaten 
first. After cutting a ham, if not to be cut from again soon, rub 
the cut side with corn meal ; this prevents the ham from becoming 
rancid, and rubs off easily when the ham is needed again. 

Beef in boiling loses rather more than one-quarter ; in roasting it 
loses one-third ; legs of mutton lose one-fifth in boiling, and one- 
third in roasting, and a loin of mutton in roasting loses rather more 
than a third. 

Beef suet may be kept a long time in a cool place without freez- 
ing, or by burying it deep in the flour barrel so as to entirely ex- 
clude the air. 

The garnishes for meats are parsley, slices of lemon, sliced carroty 
sliced beets, and currant jelly. 

For hints on buying meats, see Marketing." 

Broiled Beefsteak. 
Lay a thick tender steak upon a gridiron well greased with butter 
or beef suet, over hot coals ; when done on one side have ready the 
warmed platter with a little butter on it, lay the steak, without 
pressing it, upon tlie platter with the cooked side dow^n so that the 
juices Avhich have gathered may run on the platter, quickly place it 
again on gridiron, and cook the other side. When done to liking, 
put on platter again, spread lightly with butter, season with salt 
and pepper, and place where it will keep warm (over boiling steam 
is best) for a few moments, but do not let butter become oily. 
Serve on hot jjlates. Many prefer to sea7^ on one side, turn imme- 
diately and sear the other, and finish cooking, turning often ; gar- 
nish with fried sliced potatoes, or with browned potato balls the size 
of a marble, piled at each end of platter. — Mrs. W. W. W. 

Fried Beefsteak. 
When the means to broil are not at hand, the next best method 
is to heat the frying pan very hot, put in steak previously hacked, 
let remain a few moments, loosen w^ith a knife and turn quickly 
several times ; repeat this, and when done transfer to a hot platter. 



MEATS. 



195 



salt, pepper, and put over it bits of butter; pile the steaks one on 
top of another, and cover with a hot platter. This way of frying 
is both healthful and delicate. Or, heat the skillet, trim off the fat 
from the steak, cut in small bits and set on to fry; meanwhile 
pound steak, then draw the bits of suet to one side and put in the 
steak, turn quickly over several times so as to sear the outside, take 
out on a hot platter previously prepared with salt and pepper, 
dredge wxll, return to skillet, repeating the operation until the 
steak is done ; dish on a hot platter, covering with another platter, 
and place where it will keep hot while making the gravy. Place a 
table-spoon dry flour in the skillet, being sure to have the fat boiling 
hot, stir until brown and free from lumps (the bits of suet may be 
left in, drawing them to one side until the flour is browned), pour 
in about half a pint boiling water (milk or cream is better), stir 
w^ell, season with pepper and salt, and serve in a gravy tureen. 
Spread bits of butter over steak and send to table at once. This is 
more economical, but not so wholesome as broiling. 

Beefsteak Smothered in Onions. 

Slice the onions thin and drop in cold water: put steak in pan 
with a little suet. Skim out onions and add to steak, season with 
pepper and salt, cover tightly, and put over the fire. When the 
juice of the onions has dried up, and the meat has browned on one 
side, remove onions, turn steak, replace onions, ana try till done, 
being careful not to burn. 

Boiled Corned Beef. 

Soak over night if very salt, but if beef is young and properly 
corned this is not necessary; pour over it cold water enough to 
cover it well, after washing off the salt. The rule for boiling meats 
is twenty-five minutes to a pound, but corned beef should be placed 
on a part of the stove or range where it will simmer, not boil, un- 
interruptedly from four to six hours, according to the size of the 
piece. If to be served cold, some let the meat remain in the liquor 
until cold, and some let tough beef remain in the liquor until the 
next day, and bring it to the boiling point just before serving. Sim- 
mer a brisket or plate-piece until the bones are easily removed, fold 
over, forming a square or oblong piece, place sufficient weight on 



196 



ME A TS. 



top to press the parts closely together, and set where it will become 
cold. This gives a firm, solid piece to cut in slices, and is a delight- 
ful relish. Boil liquor down, remove the fat, season with pepper 
or sweet herbs, and save it to pour over finely minced scraps and 
2:)ieces of beef; press the meat firmly into a mold, pour over it the 
liquor, and place over it a close cover with a weight upon it. When 
turned from the mold, garnish w^ith sprigs of parsley or celery, and 
serve with fancy pickles or French mustard. — Mi^s. S. H. J. 

Beef a La Mode. 
In a piece of the rump, cut deep openings with a sharp knife ; 
put in pieces of pork cut into dice, previously rolled in pepper, salt, 
cloves and nutmeg. Into an iron stew-pan lay pieces of pork, 
sliced onions, slices of lemon, one or two carrots and a bay-leaf; 
lay the meat on and put over it a piece of bread-crust as large as 
the hand, a half-pint w^ine and a little vinegar, and afterwards an 
equal quantity of water or broth, till the meat is half covered; 
cover the dish close and cook till tender. Then take it out, rub the 
gravy thoroughly through a sieve, skim oflP the fat, add some sour 
cream, return to the stew-pan and cook ten minutes. Instead of 
the cream, capers or sliced cucumber pickles can be added to the 
gravy if preferred, or a handful of grated ginger-bread or rye 
bread. The meat can also be laid for some days before in a spiced 
vinegar or wine pickle. — Mrs. L. S. WilUstoyi, Heidelberg, Germany, 

Boiled Beef Tongxte. 
Wash clean, put in the pot with water to cover it, a pint of salt, 
and a small pod of red pepper ; if the water boils away, add more 
so as to keep the tongue nearly covered until done ; boil until it 
can be pierced easily with a fork, take out, and if needed for pres- 
ent use, take off the skin and set aw^ay to cool ; if to be kept some 
days, do not peel until wanted for table. The same amount of salt 
wdll do for three tongues if the pot is large enough to hold them, 
always remembering to keep sufficient water in the kettle to cover 
all while boiling. Soak salt tongue over night, and cook in same 
way, omitting the salt. Or, after peeling, place the tongue in sauce- 
pan with one cup water, one-half cup vinegar, four table-spoons 
sugar, and cook till liquor is evaporated. — M. J. W. 



31 EATS. 



197 



Ragout of Beef. 

For six pounds of the round, take half dozen ripe tomatoes, cut 
up with two or three onions in a vessel with a tight cover, add half 
a dozen cloves, a stick of cinnamon, and a little whole black pepper; 
cut gashes in the meat, and stuff them with half pound of fat salt 
pork, cut into square bits; place the meat on the other ingredients, 
and pour over them half a cup of vinegar and a cup of water ; 
cover tightly, and bake in a moderate oven ; cook slowly four or five 
hours, and, when about half done, salt to taste. When done, take 
out the meat, strain the gravy through a colander and thicken with 
flour. — 3Irs. D. IF. R., Washington City. 

Roast Beef w^ith Pudding. 
Bake exactly as directed for ordinary roast for the table ; then 
make a Yorkshire pudding, to eat like vegetables with the roast, as 
follows : For every pint of milk take three eggs, three cups of flour, 
and a pinch of salt ; stir to a smooth batter, and pour into the drip- 
ping-pan under the meat, half an hour before it is done. — Mrs. C, 
T. Carson. 

Roast Beef. 

Take a rib-piece or loin-roast of seven to eight pounds. Beat it 
thoroughly all over, lay it in the roasting dish and baste it with 
melted butter. Put it inside the well-heated oven, and baste fre- 
quently W'ith its own fat, which will make it brown and tender. If, 
when it is cooking fast, the gravy is growing too brown, turn a 
glass of German cooking wine into the bottom of the pan, and 
repeat this as often as the gravy cooks away. The roast needs 
about two hours time to be done, and must be brown outside but 
inside still a little red. Season with salt and pepper. Squeeze a 
little lemon juice over it, and also turn the gravy upon it, after 
skimming off all fat. — 3frs. L. S. WUliston, Heidelberg, Germany. 

A Brown Stew. 
Put on stove a rather thick piece of beef with little bone and 
some fat; four hours before needed, pour on just boiling water 
enough to cover, cover with a close-fitting lid, boil gently, and as 
the water boils away add only just enough from time to time to 
keep from burning, so that when the meat is tender, the water may 



198 



MEATS. 



all be boiled away, as the fat will allow the meat to brown without 
burning ; turn occasionally, brown evenly over a slow fire, and make 
a gravy, by stirring flour and water together and adding to the 
drippings ; season with salt an hour before it is done.— Mrs. Ceba 
Hidl. 

Stewed Beef. 

Take a piece of the rump, pound it till tender, lay m an iron 
vessel previously lined with slices of pork and onions, with a few 
pepper-corns, dredge it with salt, and baste with melted butter. 
Cover close, over a good heat, and when it has fried a nice brown, 
add one pint German cooking wine and as much more good soup 
stock, and stew it till soft. Before serving, take out the meat, skim 
off the fat, add a table-spoon of flour mixed smooth with broth, add 
gradually still more broth, strain it through a sieve and turn over the 
previously dished meat. The meat can be laid for some days before 
m vinegar, or in a spiced pickle, or be basted with either occasionally 
instead of lying in it. 

Spiced Beef Tongue. 

Rub into the tongue a mixture of half a pint of sugar, a piece 
of saltpeter the size of a pea, and a table-spoon of ground cloves ; 
immerse it in a brine made of three-fourths pound salt to two quarts 
water, taking care that it is kept covered ; let lie two weeks, take 
out, wash well, and dry with a cloth ; roll out a thin paste made of 
flour and water, wrap the tongue in it, and put it in pan to bake ; 
bake slowly, basting well with lard and water ; when done, remove 
paste and skin, and serve. 

Fried Lfv^er. 

Cut in thin slices and place on a platter, pour on boiling water 
and immediately pour it ofl" (this seals the outside, takes away the 
unpleasant flavor, and makes it much more palatable) ; have ready 
in skillet on the stove, some hot lard or beef drippings, or both 
together, dredge the liver with rolled crackers or dried bread- 
crumbs rolled fine and nicely seasoned with pepper and salt, put 
in skillet, placing the tin cover on, fry slowly until both sides are 
dark-brown, when the liver will be thoroughly cooked. The time 
required is about a quarter of an hour. 



MEATS. 



199 



Larded Liver. 

Lard a calf's liver with bacon or bam, season with salt and pep- 
per, tie a cord around tbe liver to keep in sbape, put in a kettle 
with one quart of cold water, a quarter of a pound of bacon, one 
onion chopped fine, and one tea-spoon sweet marjoram ; let simmer 
slowly for two hours, pour off gravy into gravy-dish, and brown hver 
in kettle. Serve with the gravy.— i¥rs. E. L, Fay, W(s^hington 
Heights, New York City. 

Fried Tripe. 

Dredge with flour, or dip in egg and cracker crumbs, fry in hot 
butter, or other fat, until a delicate brown on both sides, lay it on a 
dish, add vinegar to the gravy, and pour over the tripe (or the 
vinegar may be omitted, and the gravy added, or the tripe may be 
served without vinegar or gravy). Or make a batter by mixing 
gradually one cup of flour with one of sweet milk, then add an egg 
well beaten and a little salt ; drain the tripe, dip in batter, and fry 
in hot drippings or lard. Salt pork and pig's-feet may be cooked 
by the same rule. In buying tripe get the " honey-combed." 

To fricassee tripe, cut it in narrow strips, add water or milk to it, 
and a good bit of butter rolled in flour, season with pepper and a 
little salt, let simmer slowly for some time, and serve hot garnished 
with parsley. 

Soused Tripe. 

After preparing it according to directions in How to cut and 
cure meats," place in a stone jar in layers, seasoning every layer 
with pepper and salt, and pour over boihng vinegar, in which, if 
desired, a few whole cloves, a sprinkle of mace, and a stick of 
cinnamon have been boiled ; or cover with the jelly or liquor in 
which the tripe was boiled. Wlien wanted for table, take out of 
jar, scrape ofl* the Hquid, and either broil, fricassee, fry in butter, 
or fry plain.— 3/r8. Eliza T. Carson, Mi. Pleamnt Farm. 

TOAD-IN-THE-HOLE. 

Mix one pint flour and one egg with milk enough to make a bat- 
ter (like that for batter-cakes), and a little salt; grease dish well 
with butter, put in lamb chops, add a little water with pepper and 
salt, pour batter over it, and bake for one hour. 



200 



MEATS. 



Boiled Mutton with Caper Sauce. 

Have ready a pot of boiling water, and throw in a handful of 
salt ; wash a leg of mutton and rub salt through it. If it is to be 
rare, cook about two hours; if well done, three hours or longer, 
according to size. Boil a pint of milk, thicken with flour well 
blended, add butter, salt, pepper and two table-spoons of capers, or 
mint sauce if preferred. — J/rs. E. L. F. 

Lamb Stewed with Pease. 
Cut the neck or breast in pieces, put it in a stew-pan with some 
salt pork sliced thin, and enough water to cover it; cover close and 
let stew until the meat is tender, then skim free from scum, add a 
quart of green pease shelled, and more hot water, if necessary ; 
cover till the pease are done tender, then add a bit of butter rolled 
in flour, and pepper to taste ; let simmer for a few minutes and 
serve. 

Mutton Chops. 

Season with salt and pepper, put in skillet, cover closely, and fry 
five minutes, turning over once ; dip each chop in beaten egg, then 
in cracker or bread-crumbs, and fry till tender or nicely browned on 
each side; or put in oven in a dripping-pan, with a little water, 
salt and pepper ; baste frequently and bake until brown. To broil 
lamb chops, trim neatly, broil over a clear fire, season with pepper 
and salt, and serve with green pease. 

Leg of Mutton a la Venison. 
Remove all rough fat from a leg of mutton, lay in a deep 
earthen dish, and rub into the meat very thoroughly the following 
mixture : One table-spoon salt, one each of celery , salt, brown 
sugar, black pepper, made mustard, allspice, and sweet herbs mixed 
and powdered. After these have been rubbed into all parts of 
meat, pour over it slowly a tea-cup good vinegar, cover tightly and 
set in a cool place for four or five days, turning ham, and basting 
it with liquid three or four times a day. To cook, leave in a clean 
kettle a quart boiling water, have in kettle an inverted tin-pan or 
rack made for the purpose; on it lay ham just as taken out of 
pickle ; cover kettle tightly, and stew for four hours. Do not allow 
water to touch the meat. Add a tea-cup of hot water to the pickle. 



MEATS. 



201 



and baste the ham with it. When ready to serve, thicken the 
liquid in the kettle with flour, strain through a fine strainer, and 
serve the meat with it and a relish of currant jelly. 

Frogs. 

Frogs may be broiled, or made into a fricassee seasoned with 
tomato catsup. The hind legs alone are eaten, and are a great 
delicacy. 

Fricatelli. 

Chop raw fresh pork very fine, add a little salt, plenty of pepper, 
and two small onions chopped fine, half as much bread as there is 
meat, soaked until soft, two eggs ; mix well together, make into 
oblong patties, and fry like oysters. These are nice for breakfast; 
if used for supper, serve with sliced lemon. --3/rs. W. F. Wilcox. 

Boned Ham. 

Having soaked a well-cured ham in tepid water over night, boil 
it till perfectly tender, putting it on in warm water; take up in a 
wooden tray, fet cool, remove bone carefully, press the ham again 
into shape,' return to boiling liquor, remove pot from fire, and let 
the ham remain in it till cold. Cut across and serve cold.— Ms8 
L. L. Richmond. 

Boiled Ham. 

Pour boiling water over it and let stand until cool enough to wash, 
scrape clean (some have a coarse hair-brush on purpose for cleaning 
hams), put in a thoroughly cleansed boiler with cold water enough 
to cover ; bring to the boiling point and then place on back part of 
stove to' mnmer steadily for six or seven hours or till tender when 
pierced with a fork (if the ham weighs twelve pounds) ; be care- 
ful to keep water at boiling point, and not to allow it to go much 
above it. Turn the ham once or twice in the water ; when done 
take up and put into a baking-pan to skin ; dip the hands in cold 
water, take the skin between the fingers and peel as you would an 
orange ; set in a moderate oven, placing the lean side of the ham 
downward, and if vou like, sift over pounded or rolled crackers ; 
bake one hour. The baking brings out a great quantity of fat, 
leaving the meat much more delicate, and in warm weather it will 
keep in a dry, cool place a long time ; if there is a tendency to mold, 
set it a httle while into the oven again. Or, after the ham is boiled 



202 



MEATS. 



and peeled, cover with the white of a raw egg, and sprinkle sugar 
or fine bread-crumbs over it ; or cover with a regular cake-icing, 
place in the oven and brown ; or, quarter two onions, stick whole 
allspice and black pepper in the quarters, with a knife make slits 
in the outside of the ham in which put the onions, place in dripping- 
pan, lay parsley around, and bake till nicely browned. Or, after 
boiling and peeling, dust with sugar, and pass a hot knife over it 
until it forms a caramel glaze, and serve without baking. A still 
nicer way is to glaze with strong meat jelly or any savory jelly at 
hand, boiled down rapidly (taking great care to prevent burning) 
until it is like glue. Brush this jelly over the ham when cool, and 
it makes it an elegant dish. The nicest portion of a boiled ham 
may be served in slices, and the ragged parts and odds and ends 
chopped fine for sandwiches, or by adding three eggs to one pint 
of chopped ham a delicious omelet may be made. If the ham is 
very salt, it should lie in water over night. 

Broiled Hai^i. 

Cut the ham in slices of medium thickness, place on a hot grid- 
iron, and broil until the fat readily flows out and the meat is slightly 
browned, take from the gridiron with a knife and fork, drop into a 
pan of cold water, then return again to the gridiron, repeat several 
times, and the ham is done ; place in a hot platter, add a few lumps 
of butter, and serve at once. If too fat, trim ofi* a part ; it is almost 
impossible to broil the fat part without burning, but this does not 
impair the taste. Pickled pork and breakfast bacon may be broiled 
in the same way. — Mrs. A. E. Brand, Minneapolis, Minn. 

Delicious Fried Ham. 
Place the slices in boiling water and cook till tender; put in fry- 
ing-pan and brown, and dish on a platter; fry some eggs by dripping 
gravy over them until done, instead of turning ; take up carefully and 
lay them on the slices of ham. — 3Irs. J. F. Woods, Milford Center. 

Baked Pig. 

Take a pig about six wrecks old, nicely prepared, score in squares, 
and rub lard all over it; make a dressing of two quarts of corn 
meal salted as if for bread, and mix to a stiff* bread with boiling 
water; make into pans and bake. After this is baked brown, break 
it up, and add to it one-fourth pound of butter, pepper to taste, 



MEATS. 



203 



and thyme. Fill the pig till plump, se\v it up, and place it on its 
knees in the pan, which fill with as much water as will cook it. 
Baste it very frequently with the gravy, also two red pepper pods. 
Turn while baking same as turkey, and continue to baste till done. 
Some use turkey-dressing instead of above.— ITrs. M. L. Blanton, 
Nashville, Tenn. 

Spare-rib Pot-pie. 

Cut the spare-ribs once across and then in strips three or four 
inches wide, put on in kettle with hot water enough to cover, stew 
until tender, season with salt and pepper, and turn out of kettle ; 
replace a layer of spare-ribs in the bottom, add a layer of peeled 
potatoes (quartered if large), some bits of butter, some small squares 
of baking-powder dough rolled quite thin, season again, then another 
layer of spare-ribs, and so on until the kettle is two-thirds full, 
leaving the squares of crust for the last layer ; then add the liquor 
in which the spare-ribs were boiled, and hot water if needed, cover, 
boil half to three-quarters of an hour, being careful to add hot water 
so as not to let it boil dry. The crust can be made of light biscuit 
dough, without egg or sugar, as follows: Roll thin, cut out, let rise, 
and use for pie, remembering to have plenty of water in the kettle, 
so that when the pie is made and the cover on, it need not be re- 
moved until dished. If, after taking up, there is not sufficient 
gravy, add hot water and flour and butter rubbed together ; season 
to taste, and serve. To warm over pot-pie, set it in a dripping-pan 
in the oven, add lumps of butter with gravy or hot water; more 
squares of dough may be laid on the top. — Mrs. W. W. W. 

PiGs'-FEET Souse. 

Cut off the horny parts of feet and toes, scrape, clean, and wash 
thoroughly, singe off the stray hairs, place in a kettle with plenty 
of water, boil, skim, pour off water and add fresh, and boil until the 
bones will pull out easily ; do not bone, but pack in a stone jar with 
pepper and salt sprinkled between each layer; cover with good 
cider vincfra-. When wanted for the table, take out a sufficient 
quantity, put in a hot skillet, add more vinegar, salt, and pepper 
if needed, boil until thoroughly heated, stir in a smooth thicken- 
ing of flour and water, and boil until flour is cooked ; serve hot as 
a nice breakfast dish. Or, when the feet have boiled until perfectly 



204 



31 E A TS. 



tender, remove the bones and pack in stone jar as above ; slice 
down cold vAien wanted for use. Let the liquor in which the feet are 
boiled stand over night ; in the morning remove the fat and pre- 
pare and preserve for use as directed in the Medical Department. 

Pig's-head Cheese. 
Having thoroughly cleaned a hog's or pig's head, split it in two, 
take out the eyes and the brain; clean the ears, throw scalding 
water over the head and ears, then scrape them well ; when very 
clean, put in a kettle with water to cover it, and set it over a rather 
quick fire ; skim it as any scum rises ; when boiled so that the flesh 
leaves the bones, take it from the water with a skimmer into a large 
wooden bowl or tray ; then take out every particle of bone, chop the 
meat fine, season to taste with salt and pepper (a little pounded 
sage may be added), spread a cloth over the colander, put the meat 
in, fold cloth closely over it, lay a weight on it so that it may press 
the whole surface equally (if it be lean use a heavy weight, if fat, 
a lighter one) ; when cold take ofi* weight, remove from colander, 
and place in crock. Some add vinegar in proportion of one pint to 
a gallon crock. Clarify the fat from the cloth, colander, and liquor 
of the pot, and use for frying. 

Fried Porksteaks. 
Fry like beefsteaks, with pepper and salt ; or sprinkle with dry 
powdered sage if the sausage flavor is liked. — Mrs. B. A. Fay. 

Fried Salt Pork. 
Cut in rather thin slices, and freshen by letting lie an hour or two 
in cold water or milk and water, roll in flour and fry till crisp (if 
in a hurry, pour boiling water on the slices, let stand a few minutes, 
drian, roll in flour and fry as before) ; drain ofl* most of the grease 
from frying-pan, stir in while hot one or two table-spoons of flour, 
about half a pint new milk, a little pepper, and salt if not salt 
enough already from the meat ; let boil and pour into gravy dish. 
This makes a nice white gravy when properly made. 

Roast Pork. 

A small loin of pork, three table-spoons bread-crumbs, one onion, 
half a tea-spoon chopped sage, half tea-spoon salt, half tea-spoon 
pepper, one ounce chopped suet, one table-spoon drippings. Sepa- 



MEATS. 



205 



rate each joint of the loin with the chopper, and then make an in- 
cision with a knife into the thick part of the pork in which to put 
the stuffing. Prepare the stuffing by mixing the bread-crumbs 
together with the onion, which must have previously been finely 
chopped. Add to this the sage, pepper, salt and suet, and when all 
is thoroughly mixed, press the mixture snugly into the incision 
already made in the pork, and sew together the edges of the meat 
with needle and thread, to confine the stuffing. Grease well a sheet 
of kitchen paper, with drippings, place the loin into this, securing 
it with a wrapping of twine. Put to bake in a dry baking-pan, in 
a brisk oven, basting immediately and constantly as the grease draws 
out, and roast a length of time, allowing twenty minutes to the 
pound and twenty minutes longer. Serve with apple-sauce or apple- 
fritters. —iV/iss M. L. Dods. 

EoAST Spare-rib. 
Trim off the rough ends neatly, crack the ribs across the middle, 
rub with salt and sprinkle with pepper, fold over, stuff with turkey- 
dressing, sew up tightly, place in dripping-pan with pint of water, 
baste frequently, turning over once so as to bake both sides equally 
until a rich brown. 

Yankee Pork and Beans. 
Pick over carefully a quart of beans and let them soak over 
night ; in the morning wash and drain in another w^ater, put on to 
boil in cold water with half a teaspoon of soda ; boil about thirty 
minutes (when done the skin of a bean will crack if taken out and 
blown upon), drain, and put in an earthen pot first a shce of pork 
and then the beans, with two or three table-spoons of molasses. 
When the beans are in the pot, put in the center half or three- 
fourths of a pound of well-washed salt pork with the rind scored in 
slices or squares, and uppermost, season with pepper and salt if 
needed ; cover all with hot water, and bake six hours or longer m 
a moderate oven, adding hot water as needed; they can not be 
baked too long. Keep covered so that they will not burn on the 
top, but remove cover an hour or two before serving, to brown the 
top and crisp the pork. This is the Yankee dish for Sunday breakfast. 
It is often baked the day before, allowed to remain in the oven all 



206 



MEATS. 



night, and browned in the morning. Serve in the dish in which 
they are cooked, and always have enough left to know the luxury 
of cold beans, or baked beans warmed over. If salt pork is too 
robust for the appetites to be served, season delicately with salt, 
pepper, and a little butter, and roast a fresh spare-rib to serve with 
them. 

Fried Veal Cutlets. 

Make a batter of half pint of milk, a well-beaten egg, and flour; 
fry the veal brown in sweet lard or beef-drippings, dip it in the 
batter and fry again till brown ; drop some spoonfuls of batter in 
the hot lard after the veal is taken up, and serve them ou top of 
the meat ; put a little flour paste in the gravy with salt and pepper, 
let it come to a boil and pour it over the whole. The veaJ should 
be cut thin, pounded, aud cooked nearly an hour. Cracker crumbu 
and egg may i)e used instead of batter, but the skillet shoidd then 
be kept covered, and the veal cooked slowly for haJf an hour over 
a moderate fire. If a gravy is wanted sprinkle a little flour in the 
pan, add igalt and pepper and a little water, let come to a boil, and 
pour over the cutlets; or, pound well, squeeze juice of lemon over 
the slices, let stand an hour or two, dij) in beaten egg and then in 
fine bread-crumbs (if no stale bread is at hand dry slices in a cool 
oven), plunge at once into hot fat enough to cover. The slices wiU 
brown before they are thoroughly cooked, and the pan should be 
drawn aside to a cooler place to finish" more slowly. 

Fish may be fried in the same way; when done the meat will sep- 
arate readily from the bone when a knife is inserted. They may be 
dipped in milk and then in flour, instead of in egg and bread- 
crumbs ; sift salt evenly over the meat or fish just before serving. 
The bread-crumbs should be fine; if coarse, they crumble off* with 
the egg in cooking. 

Veal Loaf. 

Chop fine three pounds of leg or loin of veal and three-fourths 
pound salt pork, chopped finely together ; roll one dozen crackers, 
put half of them in the veal with two eggs, season with pepper and 
a little salt if needed; mix all together and make into a solid form; 
then take the crackers that are left and spread smoothly over the 
outside; bake one hour, and eat cold.— Gov. Tiklm, K Y. 



MEATS. 



207 



Roast Loin of Veal. 

Wash and rub thoroughly with salt and pepper, leaving in the 
kidney, around which put plenty of salt; roll up, let stand two 
hours ; in the meantime make dressing of bread-crumbs, salt, pep- 
per, and chopped parsley or thyme moistened with a little hot 
water and butter — some prefer chopped salt pork — also add an egg. 
Unroll the veal, put the dressing well around the kidney, fold, and 
secure well with several yards white cotton twine, covering the 
meat in all directions; place in the dripping-pan with the thick 
side down, put to bake in a rather hot oven, graduating it to 
moderate heat afterward ; in half an hour add a little hot water to 
the pan, baste often ; in another half hour turn over the roast, and 
when nearly done, dredge lightly with flour, and baste with melted 
butter. Before serving, carefully remove the twine. A four-pound 
roast thus prepared will bake thoroughly tender in about two hours. 
To make the gravy, skim off fat if there is too much in the drippings, 
dredge some flour in the pan, stir until it browns, add some hot 
water if necessary, boil a few moments and serve in gravy-boat. 
This roast is very nice to slice down cold for Sunday dinners. 
Serve with green pease and lemon jelly. 

Stewed Kidney. 

Boil kidneys the night before till very tender, turn meat and 
gravy into a dish and cover over. In the morning, boil for a few 
moments, thicken with flour and water, add part of an onion chopped 
very fine, pepper, salt, and a lump of butter, and pour over toasted 
bread well buttered. — Mrs. E. L. F. 

Veal Stew. 

Boil tw^o and a half pounds of the breast of veal one hour in 
water enough to cover, add a dozen potatoes, and cook half an hour ; 
before taking off the stove, add one pint of milk and flour enough 
to thicken ; season to taste. If preferred, make a crust as for 
chicken-pie, bake in two pie-pans, place one of the crusts on the 
platter, pour over the stew, and place the other on top. — iTa^e Thomp- 
son, Millershurg, Ky. 



208 



MEATS. 



Sweet-Breads. 

These are great delicacies. There are two in a calf, one from 
neck called "throat sweet-bread," the other from near the heart 
called "heart sweet-bread." The latter is most delicate. Select 
the largest. The color should be clear and a shade darker than the 
fat. Before cooking let the sweet-breads lie for half an hour in 
luke warm water, then throw into boiling water to blanch and 
harden, and then into cold water to cool ; after which draw off the 
outer casing, remove the little pipes, and cut into thiu slices. Sweet- 
breads do not keep well, and should be fresh, and must be kept in 
a cold, dry place. They should be thoroughly cooked. In lard- 
ing sweet-bread, take deep, long stitches, or they will break out. 

To broil, prepare as above, spread plenty of butter over them, 
and broil on a gridiron over hot coals, turning often. 

To fricassee, cut up the remnant of a cooked sweet-bread in small 
pieces, prepare a gravy by melting two table-spoons butter and 
stirring in a table-spoon flour, and adding a tea-cup of soup stock 
or water; lay pieces of sweet-bread in pan with gravy, season with 
pepper and salt, and boil up once. Garnish with sliced lemon or 
pieces of fried bread. If sweet-breads are fresh, cut into thin slices, 
let simmer slowly in the gravy for three-quarters of an hour, and 
add a well-beaten egg, two table-spoons cream, and a spoonful 
chopped parsley; stir all together for a few minutes, and serve im- 
mediately. 

To fry, })arboil five minutes, wipe dry, lard with narrow strips of 
salt flit pork with a larding-needle, put a very little butter or lard 
into a frying-pan, lay in the sweet-breads when it is hot, and fry to 
a crisp brown, turning often. Or, slice thin, sprinkle over grated 
nutmeg and chopped parsley, dip into a batter made of one cup 
milk, one egg, (me cup of flour, a pinch of salt, and a half tea- 
sj)oon baking-powder, and fry like fritters. 

To roast, parboil large ones, and, when cold, lard with salt pork 
as above. Eoast brown in a moderate oven, basting often with 
butter and water. Serve with white sauce or tomato sauce poured 
over them. For sweet-breads with green pease, lard Ave sweet-breads 
with strips of salt pork (project evenly about half an inch on the 
upper side), put on the fire with a half pint water, and let stew 



MEATS, 



209 



dowly for half an hour, take out and put in a small dripping-pan 
with a little butter and a sprinkle of flour ; brown slightly, add half 
a gill of mingled milk and water, and season with pepper ; heat a 
half pint of cream, and stir it in the gravy in the pan. Have 
pease ready boiled and seasoned, place the sweet-breads in the center 
of the dish, pour the gravy over them, and put the pease around 
them. 

Veal with Oystees. 

Two pounds of tender veal cut in thin bits, dredge with flour, 
and fry in sufficient hot lard to prevent sticking ; when nearly done 
add one and a half pints of fine oysters, thicken with a little flour, 
season with salt and pepper, and cook until both are done. Serve 
very hot in a covered dish. — In the Kitchen, 



14 



PASTRY. 



Butter or lard for pastry should be sweet, fresh and solid. 
When freshly-made butter can not be had, wash well, kneading 
while under cold water, changing the water two or three times, and 
then wiping dry w^ith a napkin. The board on which the butter is 
rolled should be hard and smooth, and never used for any other 
purpose. 

A very nice paste for family use may be made by reducing the 
quantity of shortening to even so little as a half pound to a quart 
of flour, especially when children or dyspeptics are to be considered. 
With the exception of mince-pies, w^hich are warmed over before 
serving, all pies should be eaten the day they are baked. In w^arm 
weather, when not ready to bake immediately after making up 
paste, keep it in the ice-chest till wanted, several days if necessary, 
and, in any event, it is better to let it thus remain for one or two 
hours. Roll always with a well-floured rolling-pin. 

To prevent the juice of pies from soaking into the under crust, 
beat an egg well, and with a bit of cloth dipped into the egg, rub 
over the crust before filling the pies. 

For a more wholesome pie-crust shortening, boil beans or potatoes 
until soft, make into a broth, work through a colander, mix as much 
into the flour as can be done and pr^erve suflicient tenacity in the 
dough. Knead moderately stifl*, and roll a little thicker than crust 
shortened with lard. It is a good plan to make a pufl'-paste for the 
top crust, and for the under crust use less shortening. 

When using green currants, pie-plant, gooseberries, or other fruits 
which require the juice to be thickened, fill the lower crust, sprinkle 

(210) 



PASTRY. 



211 



corn starch evenly over, and put on the upper crust. This pre- 
vents the juice from running over, and, when cold, forms a nice 
jelly. Do not sprinkle with sugar until the fruit is placed in the 
crust, as the sugar sets the juice free. In all pies with top crust, 
make air-holes, or the crust will burst. These may be arranged in 
any fanciful shape, and are best made by the point of the bowl of 
an inverted tea-spoon pressed through the crust while on the board, 
and gently drawn apart when taken up to put over the fire. Mer- 
ingue, for pies or puddings, is made in the proportion of one table- 
spoon sugar to white of one egg, with flavoring added. Never fill 
pies until just before putting them in the oven. Always use tin 
pie-pans, since, in earthen pans, the under crust is not likely to be 
well baked. Just before putting on the upper crust, wet the rim 
of the lower with the finger dipped in water, or with a thick paste 
of flour and water, or egg and flour, and press the two crusts firmly 
together; this will prevent that bane of all pastry cooks— a burst 
pie. Bake fruit pies in a moderate oven, having a better heat at 
the bottom than at the top of the oven, or the lower crust will be 
clammy and raw. When done, the crust will separate from the 
pan, so that the pie may be easily removed. Remove at once fi'om 
the tins, or the crust will become "soggy." 

The secret of success in making pufl-paste is to secure the great- 
est possible number of layers of butter and dough (alternately) as 
the result of folding and rolling. This is best accomplished, as will 
readily be perceived, by increasing the quantity of butter; the more 
you use, the greater the number of layers before the butter is ex- 
hausted by absorption into the dough. On the other hand, too 
much butter produces equally bad results ; a quantity of butter 
equal to the flour is the most, and three-fourths pound of butter 
to a pound of flour the least, that can be used in puflT-paste with 
good results. For pastry for the family table the proportion of 
butter may be reduced to one-fourth as much butter as flour, and 
lard or suet may be substituted for butter. 

In making pufl'-paste, it is a mistake to suppose that lessening the 
quantity of butter is economical. For instance, tartlets cut one- 
fourth of an inch thick from paste made with half a pound of but- 
ter to a pound of flour, will not be any thicker or higher when 



212 



PASTRY. 



baked than those cut from paste half as thick made with 
three-fourths pound butter to a pound of flour. Thus, by using one- 
fourth more butter double the bulk results, besides the satisfaction 
of having good light pastry. In washing or egging pastry, be care- 
ful not to allow the egg or milk, or whatever is used, to run down 
•over the edges, or, as it sets by the heat of the oven, it will bind 
the edges and prevent them from opening fully. In rolling, use 
the rolling-pin as lightly as possible, and take care that the pressure 
is even. The layers will be even or uneven just in proportion as 
the pressure is even or uneven. Be careful not to break the dough, 
or the butter will be forced through, and thus destroy the evenness 
of the layers. If the dough breaks, cover it with a piece of plain 
dough," dust it well with flour, and continue rolling. (It is well 
to keep a piece of plain dough in reserve for this purpose.) 

Aunty Phelps' Pie Crust. 
To one pint of sifted flour, add one even tea-spoon baking powder, 
and sweet cream enough to wet the flour, leaving crust a little stiff*. 
This is enough for two pies. 

Good Common Paste. 
One coflee-cup lard, three of sifted flour, and a little salt. In 
winter soften the lard a little (but not in summer), cut it well into 
the flour with a knife, then mix with cold water quickly into a 
moderately stiff* dough, handling as little as possible. This makes 
four common-sized covered pies. Take a new slice of paste each 
time for top crust. After rolling spread with a tea-spoon, butter, 
fold and roll again, using the trimmings, etc., for under crust. — 
Miss Katy Rupp. 

Graham Paste. 
Mix lightly half a pound Graham flour, half a pint sweet cream, 
half a teaspoon salt, roll, and bake like other pastry. 

Puff Paste. 

Take three-fourths pound of butter (be sure that it is of the best 
quality), free it from salt (by working it in water), form it in a 
square lump, and place it in flour for half an hour to harden ; place 
one pound of flour in a bowl, take two ounces of butter and rub it 
" fine " into the flour, wet the flour into dough with cold water. 



PASTBY. 



213 



making it as near as possible the same consistency as the butter 
(so that the two will roll out evenly together) ; now place the dough 
on the pastry board, dust it under and over with flour, and roll it 
out in a piece say twelve inches long and six wide ; now flour butter 
well, and roll that out in a sheet about eight inches long and five 
wide, (this will cover about three-fourths of the dough, leaving one- 
fourth of the dough, and about half an inch around the sides and 
top edge, without butter). Place the sheet of butter on the dough 
as described ; take half a tea-spoon cream tartar, mix it w^ith twice 
its bulk of flour, and sprinkle it evenly over the butter; now fold 
the one-fourth not covered with butter, over on the butter, then 
fold the other part with the butter on it over on that, and you will 
then liave three layers of dough and two of butter. Roll out to its 
original size, dust with flour, fold it as before, roll out again, dust 
with flour, and fold again; repeat twice more, giving it four rollings 
and foldings ; when rolled out for the last time, cut it through in 
two even pieces, and place one on the other, and the paste is ready 
to roll in any shape desired. 

In warm weather it is necessary to place it in a cool place after 
every second rolling ; in very warm w^eather after each rolling, and 
sometimes on ice. A good, firm, tough butter is best for the pur- 
pose. Take care not to use carbonate of soda or saleratus instead 
of cream tartar ; use a sharp cutter to cut out tartlets ; give a rapid 
downward cut so that it will cut, not drag through, so that the 
layers may not be pressed together, so as to prevent their opening 
readily when baking, thus preventing the tartlets from raising fully. 
After they are cut, place them on the pans or in the patty-pans 
upside down, because the cutter in dividing the paste presses down- 
ward toward the board, closing the layers, and if placed in oven 
right side up, the edges pressed somewhat closely together can not 
open fully, consequently do not rise well, but, if inverted, the layers 
open more evenly at the edges.— C. H. King, Orange, N. J. 

Puff Paste. 

One heaping pound superfine sifted floin% one of butter, which 
has fii-st been folded in a napkin and gently pressed to remove all 



214 



PASTR Y. 



moisture; place the flour on board (or marble slab is better), make 
a well in center, squeeze in juice of half a lemon, and add yolk of 
one egg, beaten with a little ice-water; stir with one hand and drop 
in ice-water with the other, until the paste is as hard as the butter; 
roll paste out in a smooth square an inch thick, smooth sides with 
a rolling-pin, spread the butter over half the paste; lay the other 
half over like an old-fashioned turn-over, leave it for fifteen min- 
utes in a cold place, then roll out in a long strip, keeping the edges 
smooth, and double it in three parts, as follows: Fold one-third over 
on the middle third, roll it down, then fold over the other outside 
third, roll out in a long strip and repeat the folding process — rolling 
across this time so that the butter may not run "in streaks" by 
being always rolled the same way ; let it lie for fifteen minutes, and 
repeat this six times, allowing fifteen minutes between each rolling 
to cool, otherwise the butter will ''oil," and the paste is ready for 
use. Handle as little as possible through the Avhole process. All 
the flour used must be of the very best quality, and thoroughly 
sifted. The quantity of water depends on the capacity of the flour 
to absrrb it, which is quite variable. Too little makes the paste 
toug'x, and too much makes it thin, and prevents the flakiness so 
de?irable. Rich paste requires a quick oven. This may be made 
in one-fourth the quantity given above, and is then much more 
easily handled.— J/rs. F. G. Hu^h, Minneapolis, 3Emi. 

Paste with Suet. 
Roll a half-pound of the best suet, with very little membrane 
running through it, on a board for several minutes> removing all 
the skin and fibers that appear when rolling; the suet will be a 
pure and sweet shortening, looking like butter; or the suet may 
be cliopped fine and the fibers removed. Rub the suet into a 
pound of flour, add a tea-spoon salt, and mix it with a half 
pint of ice-water ; roll out for the plates, and put on a little butter 
in flakes, rolling it in as usual. Some add a tea-spoon baking- 
powder. 

Apple ^Meringue Pie. 
Pare, slice, stew and sweeten ripe, tart and juicy apples, mash 
and season with nutmeg, (or stew lemon peel with them for flavor), 
fill crust and bake till done ; spread over the apple a thick meringue 



PASTRY. 



215 



made by whipping to froth whites of three eggs for each pie, sweet- 
ening with three table-spoons powdered sugar ; flavor with vanilla, 
beat until it will stand alone, and cover pie three-quarters of an 
inch thick. Set back in a quick oven till well set," and eat cold. 
In their season substitute peaches for apples. 

Apple Custard Pie. 
Peel sour apples and stew until soft, and not much water is left 
in them, and rub through a colander. Beat three eggs for each 
pie. Put in in proportion of one cup butter, and one of sugar for 
three pies. Season with nutmeg.— 3frs. D. G, Gross. 

Dried Apple Pie. 
Very good pies may be made of the Alden" dried apples, by 
stewing in a very little water ; sweeten and make like any other. 
The home dried apples are best when stewed very soft, and mashed 
through a colander. When stewing put in two or three small pieces 
of lemon or orange peel (previously dried and saved for cooking 
purposes); flavor with a very little spice of any kind. Sweeten and 
season before putting into the pie-pan. A beaten egg may be stirred 
in. Bake with two crusts, rolled thin, and warm slightly before 
eating. 

Sliced-apple Pie. 
Line pie-pan with crust, sprinkle with sugar, fill with tart apples 
sliced very thin, sprinkle sugar and a very little cinnamon over 
them, and add a few small bits of butter, and a table-spoon 
water; dredge in flour, cover with the top crust, and bake 
half to three-quarters of an ' hour ; allow four or five table-spoons 
sugar to one pie. Or, line pans with crust, fill with sliced apples, 
put on top crust and bake; take ofl* top crust, put in sugar, bits of 
butter and seasoning, replace crust and serve warm. It is delicious 
with sweetened cream. Crab-apple pie, if made of Transcend- 
ents," will fully equal those made of larger varieties of the apple.— 
Mrs. D. Buxton. 

Banana Pie. 

Slice raw bananas, add butter, sugar, allspice and vinegar,^ or 
boiled cider, or diluted jelly; bake with two crusts. Cold boiled 
sweet potatoes may be used instead of bananas, and are very nice. 



216 



PASTRY. 



Corn Starch Pies. 
One quart milk, yolks of two eggs, two table-spoons corn starch, 
two cups sugar ; mix starch in a little milk, boil the rest of the 
milk to a thick cream, beat the yolks and add starch, put in the 
boiled milk and add sugar ; bake with an under crust, beat whites 
with two table-spoons sugar, and put on top of pies, and, when 
done, return to oven and brown.— Jfrs. J. W. Gruhhs, Richmond, 
Indiana. 

Cream Pie. 

Beat thoroughly together the white of one egg, half tea-cup sugar, 
and table-spoon of flour; then add tea-cup rich milk (some use part 
cream), bake with a bottom crust, and grate nutmeg on top. — Mrs, 
Luther Liggett. 

Cream Pie. 

Pour a pint cream upon a cup and a half powdered sugar; let 
stand until the whites of three eggs have been beaten to a stiff 
froth ; add this to the cream, and beat up thoroughly, grate a little 
nutmeg over the mixture, and bake in two pies without upper 
crusts.— ifrs. Hmry C. Meredith, Cambridge City, Ind. 

Whipped Cream Pie. 
Sweeten with white sugar one tea-cup very thick sweet cream, 
made as cold as possible without freezing, and flavor with lemon 
or vanilla to taste ; beat until as light as eggs for frosting, and keep 
cool until the crust is ready ; make crust moderately rich, prick well 
with a fork to prevent blistermg, bake, spread on the cream, and 
to add finish put bits of jelly over the top. The above will make 
two pies.— i¥r8. A. M. Alexander, Harrisburg. 

Cruivib Pie. 

Soak in a little warm water one tea-cup bread-crumbs half an 
hour, add three table-spoons sugar, half a table-spoon butter, half a 
cup of cold water, a little vinegar, and nutmeg to suit the taste; 
bake with two crusts, made the same as for other pies.— Mss Syl- 
via J. Courier. 

Cocoa-nut Pie. 
One pint milk, a cocoa-nut, tea-cup sugar, three eggs ; grate cocoa- 
nut, mix with the yolks of the eggs and sugar, stir in the milk, 
filling the pan even full, and bake. Beat whites of eggs to frothy 



PASTRY. 



217 



stirring in three table-spoons pulverized sugar, pour over pie and 
bake to a light brown. If prepared cocoa-nut is used, one heaping 
tea-cup is required.— Mss K B. Bromi, Washington City. 

CusTAKD Pie. 

Heat one quart good rich milk in a tin-pan set in a skillet of hot 
water ; take five eggs, four large table-spoons sugar, and a little 
salt, beat sugar and eggs a little, and pour in the milk ; flavor to 
suit the taste and have oven hot when put in to bake. Then cook 
slowly so as not to boil, as that spoils it ; test with a knife, when 
done it will not stick to blade. Without the crust, this makes a 
delicious baked custard. Bake in a deep tin— Mrs. C. B. Boody, 
Kirkhoven, Minn. 

Custard Pie. 

For a large pie, take three eggs, one pint of milk, half cup sugar, 
and flavor. The crust for custard pies may be baked (not too hard) 
before putting in the custard ; prick it before putting it in oven to 
prevent blistering. This prevents it from becoming soggy.— 3frs. 
N. S. Long. 

Chess Pie. 

Three eggs, two-thirds cup sugar, half cup butter (half cup milk 
may be added if not wanted so rich) ; beat butter to a cream, then 
add yolks and sugar beaten to a froth with the flavoring ; stir all 
together rapidly, and bake in a nice crust. When done, spread 
with the beaten whites, and three table-spoons sugar and a little 
flavoring. Keturn to oven, and brown slightly. This makes one 
pie, which should be served immediately.— Mrs. J. Carson, Glendole. 

Green Currant Pie. 
Line an inch pie-dish with good pie-crust, sprinkle over the bot- 
tom two heaping table-spoons sugar and two of flour (or one of com 
starch) mixed ; then pour in one pint green currants washed clean, 
and two table-spoons currant jelly ; sprinkle with four heaping 
table-spoons sugar, and add two table-spoons cold water ; cover and 
bake fifteen or twenty minutes.— Miss S. Alice Melchin^. 

Ripe Currant Pie. 
One cup mashed ripe currants, one of sugar, two table-spoons 
water, one of flour beaten with the yolks of two eggs ; bake, frost 



218 



PASTRY. 



the top with the beaten whites of the eggs and two table-spoons 
powdered sugar, and brown in oven. — if rs. W. E. H., Minneapolis. 

Cherry Pie. 

Line a pie-tin with rich crust ; nearly fill with the carefully 
seeded fruit, sweeten to taste, and sprinkle evenly with a tea-spoon 
corn-starch or a table-spoon flour, add a table-spoon of butter cut 
into small bits and scattered over the top ; wet edge of crust, put on 
upper crust, and press the edges closely together, taking care to pro- 
vide holes in the center for the escape of the air. Pies from black- 
berries, raspberries, etc., are all made in the same way, regulating 
the quantity of the sugar by the tartness of the fruit. 

Lemon Pie. 

One lemon grated, one cup sugar, the yolks of three eggs, small 
pieces butter, three table-spoons milk, two tea-spoons corn starch ; 
beat all together and bake in a rich crust; beat the whites with 
three table-spoons sugar, place on the pie when done, and then 
brown in the oven. — 3Irs. W. E. Scobey. 

Lemon Pie. 

Four eggs, one and a half cups sugar, two-thirds cups water, two 
table-spoons flour, one lemon. Beat the yolks of eggs until very 
smooth (beat the yolks a long time and whip the whites well), add 
the grated peel of lemon and the sugar, beat well, stir in the flour, 
and add the lemon juice (if lemons are small two may be necessary), 
and lastly the water; stir well, and pour in pie-pans lined with 
paste. When baked, take from oven, and spread over them the 
whites of the eggs beaten dry and smooth with four table-spoons 
pulverized sugar ; return to oven and brown slightly. The above 
recipe is for two pies. — Mrs. Virginia C. Meredith. 

Appleless Mince-]Meat. 
Chop fine eight pounds green tomatoes, add six pounds sugar, one 
ounce each of cloves, cinnamon and allspice, simmer slowly till 
tomatoes are clear, then put away in a covered jar. For pies in 
winter, take in the proportion of two-thirds tomatoes and one-third 
meat, and season with butter, boiled cider, sugar if needed, etc., as 
regular mince pies would be seasoned. 



PASTRY. 



219 



Mince-Meat. 

Take five or six pounds scraggy beef— a neck piece will do— and 
put to boil in water enough to cover it; take off the scum that 
rises when it reaches the boiling point, add hot water from time to 
time until it is tender, then remove the lid from the pot, salt, let 
boil till almost dry, turning the meat over occasionally in the liquor, 
take from the fire, and let stand over night to get thoroughly cold; 
pick bones, gristle, or stringy bits from the meat, chop very fine, 
mincing at the same time three pounds of nice beef suet ; seed and 
cut four pounds raisins, wash and dry four pounds currants, slice 
thin a pound of citron, chop fine four quarts good-cooking tart ap- 
ples ; put into a large pan together, add two ounces cinnamon, one 
of cloves, one of gmger, four nutmegs, the juice and grated rinds 
of two lemons, one table-spoon salt, one tea-spoon pepper, and two 
pounds sugar. Put in a porcelain kettle one quart boiled cider, or, 
better still, one quart currant or grape juice (canned when grapes 
are turning from green to purple), one quart nice molasses or syrup, 
and, if you have any syrup left from sweet pickles, add some of 
that, also a good lump of butter ; let it come to boiling point, and 
pour over the ingredients in the pan after having first mixed them 
well, then mix again thoroughly. Pack in jars and put in a cool 
place, and, when cold, pour molasses over the top an eighth of an 
inch in thickness, and cover tightly. This will keep two months. 
For baking, take some out of a jar, if not moist enough add a little 
hot water, and strew a few w^hole raisins over each pie. Instead of 
boiled beef, a beefs-heart or roast meat may be used ; and a good 
proportion for a few pies is one-tliird chopped meat and two-thirds 
apples, with a little suet, raisins, spices, butter, and salt. 

Tlie above is a good formula to use, but, of course, may be varied 
to suit different tastes or the material at hand. If too rich, add 
more chopped apples ; in lieu of cider, vinegar and water in equal 
proportions may be used; good preserves, marmalades, spiced 
pickles, currant or grape jelly, canned fruit, dried cherries, etc., 
may take the place of raisins, currants and citrons. Wine or 
brandy is considered by many a great improvenu^nt, but if it 
causeth thy brother to offend " do not use it. Lemon and vanilla 
extracts are often used, also preserved lemon or orange peel. The 



220 



PASTRY. 



mince-meat is better to stand over night, or several days, before 
baking into pies, as the materials will be more thoroughly incorpo- 
rated. Many prefer to freeze their pies after baking, heating them as 
needed. 

Mince-Meat. 

Two bowls chopped apples, one of chopped meat, with one-fourth 
pound suet, grated rind and juice of one lemon, two tea-cups mo- 
lasses, one large tea-spoon each of cinnamon and cloves, one nut- 
meg, one pound raisins, half pound currants, one-fourth pound 
citron cut fine, one quart cider, and sugar and salt to taste. — Mrs. J, 
R. Wilcox, New Haven, Conn. 

Mock Mince-Pie. 
Twelve crackers rolled fine, one cup hot water, half cup vinegar, 
one cup molasses, one of sugar, one of currants, one of raisins, spice 
to taste ; measure with a tea-cup. Some use one cup dried bread- 
crumbs, and also add a small cup butter. This is for four pies. — 
Mrs. Annie E. Gillespie, Indianapolis, Ind. 

Orange Pie. 

Grated rind and juice of two oranges, four eggs, four table-spoons 
sugar, and one of butter ; cream" the butter and sugar, add the 
beaten eggs, then the rind and juice of the oranges, and, lastly, the 
whites beaten to a froth, and mixed in lightly. Bake with an under 
crust. — Gov. Stearns, Florida. 

Pie-flant Pie. 

Mix half tea-cup white sugar and one heaping tea-spoon flour 
together, sprinkle over the bottom crust, then add the pie-plant cut 
up fine ; sprinkle over this another half tea-cup sugar and heapmg 
tea-spoon flour; bake fully three-quarters of an hour in a slow oven. 
Or, stew the pie-plant, sweeten, add grated rind and juice of a 

eggs, and bake and frost like lemon pie. — 

Mrs. D. Buxton. 

Peach Pie. 

Bake in two separate tins an under and upper crust in a quick oven 
fifteen minutes; when done place in the lower crust one quart peaches 
prepared by slicing, and adding three table-spoons each of sugar and 
cream, cover with the top crust, and place in oven for five minute. 



PASTRY. 



221 



Treat strawberries, raspberries, etc., in the same way.— -Mrs. F, L, 
T., New Orleans. 

Peach Pie. 

Line a pie-tin with puff-paste, fill with pared peaches in halves 
or quarters, well covered with sugar ; put on upper crust and bake ; 
or make as above without upper crust, bake until done, remove 
from the oven, and cover with a meringue made of the whites of 
two eggs, beaten to a stiff froth with two table-spoons powdered 
sugar ; return to oven and brown slightly. Canned peaches may 
be used instead of fresh, in the same way. 

Dried-peach Pie. 
Stew peaches until perfectly soft, mash fine, and add, for two 
pies, half tea-cup sweet cream, and one tea-cup sugar ; bake with 
two crusts. Or, omit cream, and add half tea-cup boilmg water, 
and butter size of a hickory-nut. 

Potato Pie. 

A common-sized tea-cup of grated raw potato, a quart sweet milk; 
let milk boil and stir in grated potato ; when cool add two or three 
eggs well beaten, sugar and nutmeg to taste ; bake without upper 
crust ; eat the day it is baked. This recipe is for two pies — M«s 
Sarah Thmwon, Delaware. 

Potato Pie. 

Boil either Irish or sweet potatoes until well done, mash and rub 
through a sieve ; to a pint of pulp, add three pints sweet mUk, 
table-spoon melted butter, tea-cup sugar, three eggs, pinch of salt, 
and nutmeg or lemon to flavor. Use rich paste for under crust.— 
Mrs. R. G. Carson, Harrisburg. 

Pumpkin Pie. 

Stew pumpkin, cut into small pieces, in a half pint water ; and, 
when soft, mash with potato-masher very fine, let the water dry 
away, watching closely to prevent burning or scorching ; for each 
pie take one well-beaten egg, half cup sugar, two table-spoons pump- 
kin, half pint rich milk (a little cream will improve it), a little 
salt; stir well together, and season with cinnamon or nutmeg; bake 
with under crust in a hot oven. Some steam pumpkin instead of 
stewing it— Mrs. A. B. Morey. 



222 



PAJSTEY, 



Pine-apple Pie. 
A cup of sugar, a half cup butter, one of sweet cream, five eggs, 
one pine-apple grated; beat butter and sugar to a cream, add beaten 
yolks of eggs, then the pine-apple and cream, and, lastly, the beaten 
whites whipped in lightly. Bake with under crust only. — Mrs. Wm, 
Smith, Jacksonville, Floiida. 

Preserve Puffs. 

Roll out puff-paste very thin, cut into round pieces, and lay jam 
on each, fold over the paste, wet edges with white of an egg, and 
close them ; lay them on a baking sheet, ice them, and bake about 
fifteen minutes. — i¥rs. H. A. E. 

Plum Cobbler. 

Take one quart of flour, four table-spoons melted lard, half tea- 
spoon salt, two tea-spoons baking-powder ; mix as for biscuit, with 
either sweet milk or water, roll thin, and line a pudding-dish or 
dripping-pan, nine by eighteen inches ; mix three table-spoons flour 
and two of sugar together, and sprinkle over the crust; then pour 
in three pints canned damson plums, and sprinkle over them one 
coffee-cup sugar ; wet the edges with a little flour and water mixed, 
put on upper crust, press the edges together, make two openings by 
cutting two incisions at right angles an inch in length, and bake in 
a quick oven half an hour. Peaches, apples, or any kind of fresh 
or canned fruit, can be made in the same wav. — 3Iiss S, Alice 
Melching. 

Southern Tomato Pie. 

For one pie, peel and slice green tomatoes, add four table-spoons 
vinegar, one of butter, three of sugar; flavor with nutmeg or 
cinnamon ; bake wdth two crusts slowly. This tastes very much 
like a green apple pie. — Mrs. Ceba Hull. 

Vinegar Pie. 

One egg, one heaping table-spoon flour, one tea-cup sugar; beat 
all well together, and add one table-spoon sharp vinegar, and one 
tea-cup cold water ; flavor with nutmeg and bake with two crusts. 
—Mrs. B. A. Fay. 



PASTRY. 



223 



Bina's Strawberry Shortcake. 
Two heaping tea-spoons baking powder sifted into one quart flouf 
scant half tea-cup butter, two table-spoons sugar, a little salt, 
enough sweet milk (or water) to make a soft dough ; roll out almost 
as thin as pie-crust, place one layer in a baking-pan, and spread 
with a very little butter, upon which sprinkle some flour, then add 
another layer of crust and spread as before, and so on until crust is 
all used. This makes four layers in a pan fourteen inches by seven. 
Bake about fifteen minutes in a quick oven, turn out upside down, 
take off the top layer (the bottom when baking), place on a dish, 
spread plentifully with strawberries (not mashed) previously sweet- 
ened with pulverized sugar, place layer upon layer, treating each 
one in the same way ; and when done you will have a handsome 
cake, to be served warm with sugar and cream. The secret of 
having light dough is to handle it as little and mix it as quickly as 
possible. Shortcake is dehcious served with charlotte-russe or 
whipped cream. Raspberry and peach shortcakes may be made in 
the same way. 

Orange Shortcake. 
One quart flour, two table-spoons butter, two tea-spoons baking 
powder thoroughly mixed with the flour ; mix (not very stiflf) with 
cold water, work as little as possible, bake, split open, and lay 
sliced oranges between; cut in squares and serve with pudding 
sauce. Berries may be used instead of oranges. — Mrs. Canby, Belle- 
fontaine. 

Apple Tarts. 

Pare, quarter, core, and boil in a half tea-cup of water until very 
soft, ten large tart apples ; beat till venj smooth, then add the yolks 
of six eggs or three whole eggs, juice and grated rind of two lemons, 
half cup butter, one and a half cups sugar, or more if not sweet 
enough ; beat all thoroughly, line Uttle tart-tins with puff-paste, 
and fill with the mixture, bake five minutes in a liot oven. If 
wanted very nice, take the whites of the six eggs (when the yolks 
of six are used), mix with six table-spoons pulverized sugar, spread 
on the top of the tarts, return to oven and brown slightly. 

For almond tarts, beat to a cream the yolks of three eggs and a 
quarter of a pound of sugar, add half a pound of shelled almonds 



224 



PASTRY, 



pounded slightly, put in tart-tins lined with puff-paste; bake eight 
minutes. 

For cocoa-nuts, dissolve half pound sugar in quarter of a pint 
water, add half a grated cocoa-nut, let this boil slowly for a few 
minutes, and when cold, add the well-beaten yolks of three eggs 
and the white of one ; beat all well together, and pour into patty- 
pans lined with a rich crust ; bake a few minutes. 

When removed from oven, cover the tarts with a Tneringue made 
of the whites of the three eggs, mixed with three table-spoons sugar ; 
return to oven, and brown delicately. 

Tart Shells. 

Roll out thin a nice puff-paste, cut out with a glass or biscuit 
cutter, with a wine-glass or smaller cup cut out the center of two 
out of three of these, lay the rings thus made on the third, and 
bake immediately ; or shells may be made by lining patty-pans with 
paste. If the paste is light, the shells will be fine^ and may be 
used for tarts or oyster patties. Filled with jelly and covered with 
meringue (table-spoon sugar to white of one egg), and browned in 
oven, they are very nice to serve for tea. 



PUDDINGS AND SAUCES. 



No ingredient of doubtful quality should enter into the composi- 
tion of puddhigs. Suet must be perfectly sweet, and milk should be 
fresh and without the least unpleasant flavor. Suet when over kept 
and milk soured or curdled in the slightest degree, ruins a pudding 
which would otherwise be most delicious. Dried currants, such as 
are sold in the market, need very careful and thorough washing 
(after which they must be dried in a napkin), and raisins should be 
rubbed in a coarse towel to remove stems and all dirt from the out- 
side, and afterward carefully seeded. Almonds and spices must be 
very finely pounded, and the rinds of oranges or lemons rasped or 
grated lightly off (the white part of the peel has no flavor and is an 
injury). 

In making puddings, always beat the eggs separately, straining 
the yolks and adding the whites the last thing. If boiled milk is 
used, let it cool somewhat before adding the eggs; when fruit is 
added, stir it in at the last. Puddings are either baked, boiled or 
steamed; rice, bread, custard, and fruit puddings require a mod- 
erate heat; batter and corn starch, a rather quick oven. Always 
bake them as soon as mixed. Add a pinch of salt to any pud- 
ding. 

Boiled puddings are lighter when boiled in a cloth and allowed 
full room to sw^ell, but many use either a tin mold or bowl with 
cloth tied over it ; grease the former well on the inside with lard or 
butter, and in boiling do not let the water reach quite to the top. 
The pudding-bag should be made of firm drilling, tapering from 
top to bottom, and rounded on the corners; stitch and fell the 

15 (225) 



226 



PUDDINGS AND SAUCES. 



seams, which should be outside when in use, and sew a tape to the 
seam, about three inches from top. Wring the bag out of hot 
water, flour the inside well, pour in the pudding (which should be 
well beaten the instant before pouring), tie securely, leaving room 
to swell (especially when made of Indian meal, bread, rice, or 
crackers), and place in a kettle with a saucer at the bottom to pre- 
vent burning; immediately pour in enough boiling water to entirely 
cover the bag, which must be turned several times, keeping it boiling 
constantly, filling up from the tea-kettle when needed. If the pud- 
ding is boiled in a bowl, grease, fill, and cover with a square of 
drilling wrung out of hot water, floured and tied on. To use a pan, 
tie a cloth tightly over the rim, bringing the ends back together, 
and pinning them over the top of the pan ; the pudding may then 
be lifted out easily by a strong fork put through the ends or cor- 
ners of the cloth. Open bag a little to let steam escape, and serve 
immediately, as delay ruins all boiled pudding. For plum pud- 
dings, invert the pan when put in the kettle, and the pudding will 
not become water-soaked. When the pudding is done, give what- 
ever it is boiled in a quick plunge into cold water, and turn out at 
once, serving immediately. As a general rule, boiled puddings re- 
quire double the time required for baked. Steaming is safer than 
either boiling or baking, as the pudding is sure to be light and 
wholesome. Put on over cold water and do not remove cover while 
steaming. In making sauces, do not boil after the butter is added. 
Use brown or powdered sugar for sauces. In place of wine or 
brandy, flavor \vith juice of the grape, or any other fruit prepared 
for this purpose in its season by boiling and bottling and sealing 
while hot. Pudding cloths, however coarse, should never be 
washed with soap, but in clear, clean water, dried as quickly as 
possible, and kept dry and out of dust in a drawer or cupboard 
free from smell. Dates are an excellent substitute for sugar in 
Graham or any other pudding. Fruit for preserving should 
always be gathered in perfectly dry weather and be free from dust 
and the morning and evening dew. Never use tin, iron or pewter 
spoons or skimmers for preserves. 



PUDDINGS AND SA UCES. 



227 



Apple Roley Foley. 
Peel, quarter and core sour apples, make rich soda-biscuit dough, 
(or raised-biscuit dough may be used if rolled thinner), roll to half 
an inch thick, slice the quarters, and lay on the prepared paste or 
crust, roll up, tuck ends in, prick deeply with a fork, lay in a 
steamer and place over a kettle of boiling wat^r, cook an hour and 
three-quarters. Or, wrap in a cloth, tie up the ends and baste up 
sides, put in kettle of boihng water, and boil an hour and a half 
or more, keeping the water boiling constantly. Cut across, and eat 
with sweetened cream or butter and sugar. Cherries, dried fruit, 
any kind of berries, jelly, or apple-butter (with the two last raisins 
may be added), can be used. — Mrs. T. B. J, 

Orange Roley Foley. 
Make a light pastry as for apple dumplings, roll in oblong sheets 
and lay oranges peeled, sliced, and seeded, thickly all over it ; sprm- 
kle with white sugar ; scatter over all a tea-spoon or two of grated 
orange-peel, and roll up, folding down the edges closely to keep the 
syrup from running out ; boil in a cloth one and one-half hours. 
Eat with lemon-sauce prepared as follows: Six eggs, leaving out 
the Avhites of two, half pound butter, one pound sugar, juice of 
two lemons and rind of both grated ; place over a slow fire, stir till 
it thickens like honey. Very nice.— Mrs. A, E. Walsh, Nashville, 
Tenn. 

Boiled Apple Dumplings. 
Add to two cups sour milk one tea-spoon soda, and one of salt, 
half cup of butter, lard, flour enough to make dough a little stiffer 
than for biscuit; or make a good baking-powder crust; peel and 
core apples, roll out crust, place apples on dough, fill cavity of each 
with sugar, encase each apple in coating of the crust, press edges 
tight together, (it is nice to tie a cloth around each one), put into 
kettle of boiling water slightly salted, boil half an hour, taking care 
that the water covers the dumplings. They are also very nice steamed. 
To bake, make in same way, using a soft dough, place in a shallow 
pan, bake in a hot oven, and serve with cream and sugar, or place 
in a pan which is four or five inches deep (do not have the dump- 
lings touch each other); then pour in hot water, just leaving top of 
dumplings uncovered. To a pan of four or five dumplings, add 



228 



PUDDINGS AND SA UCES. 



one tea-cup sugar and half a tea-cup butter; bake from half to 
three-quarters of an hour. If water cooks away too much, add more. 
Serve dumplings on platter and the liquid in sauce-boat for dress- 
ing. Fresh or canned peaches may be made in the same way. 

Rolled Apple Dumpllj^gs. 

Peel and chop fine tart apples, make a crust of one cup rich but- 
termilk, one tea-spuon soda, and flour enough to roll ; roll half an 
inch thick, spread with the apple, sprinkle well with sugar and cin- 
namon, cut in strips two inches wide, roll up like jelly-cake, set up 
the rolls in a dripping-pan, putting a tea-spoon butter on each, put 
in a moderate oven, and baste them often with the juice. 

Bikd's-nest Pudding. 

Pare and core without quartering enough quick-cooking tart 
apples to fill a pudding-pan ; make a custard of one quart milk and 
the volks of six eggs ; sweeten, spice, pour over apples, and bake ; 
when done, use the whites of eggs beaten stiff with six table-spoons 
white sugar; spread on the custard, brown lightly, and serve either 
hot or cold. If necessary, apples may be baked a short time before 
adding custard. 

Brown Betty. 

Put a layer of sweetened apple sauce in a buttered dish, add a 
few lumps butter, then a layer of cracker crumbs sprinkled with a 
little cinnamon, then layer of sauce, etc., making the last layer of 
crumbs ; bake in oven, and eat hot with cold, sweetened cream. — 
Mrs. T. J. Buxton, Minneapolis. 

Rice Apples. 

Boil half a pound rice in a custard-kettle till tender in one quart 
milk, sweetened with half tea-cup sugar ; pare and core with apple- 
corer seven or eight good-cooking apples, place in slightly buttered 
baking-dish, put a tea-spoon of jam or jelly into each cavity, and 
fill with rich cream ; put the rice in around apples, leaving top un- 
covered ; bake thirty minutes, then cover w^ith the whites of two 
eggs, sift on sugar, and return to the oven for ten minutes. Serve 
with sweetened cream. — Mrs. S. M. Guy, Mechanwshurg. 

Bread Pldding. 

One quart sweet milk, quart bread-crumbs, four eggs, four table- 
spoons sugar ; soak bread in half the milk until soft ; mash fine, 



PUDDINGS AND SA UCES. 



229 



add the rest of milk, the well-beaten eggs and sugar, and a tea- 
cup raisins ; bake one hour, serve warm with warm sauce or maple 
sugar hard sauce; or, slice, butter, and spread bread with preserves 
or jelly, place nicely in a baking-dish. Make a custard of one pint 
of sweet milk, three eggs, and sugar to taste, and while boiling 
pour it over bread. Place in oven and bake till brown, eat with or 
without sauce. 

Blackberry ^NIush. 

To two quarts ripe berries add one and a half pints boiling water, 
and one pound sugar ; cook a few moments, then stir in a pint of 
wheat flour, boil a few moments longer, put in greased mold to 
cool, and serve with cream or hard sauce. — Miss H. D. Martin, 
New York City, 

Corn-starch Pudding. 

One pint sweet milk, whites of three eggs, two table-spoons corn- 
starch, tliree of sugar, and a little salt. Put the milk in a pan or 
small bucket, set in a kettle of hot water on the stove, and when 
it reaches the boiling point add the sugar, then the starch dissolved 
in a little cold milk, and lastly the whites of eggs whipped to a 
stifl* froth; beat it, and let cook a few minutes, then pour into tea- 
cups, fining about half full, and set in cool place. For sauce, make 
a boiled custard as follows: Bring to boiling point one pint of milk, 
add three table-spoons sugar, then the beaten yolks thinned by add- 
ing one table-spoon milk, stirring all the time till it thickens ; flavor 
w^ith two tea-spoons lemon or two of vanilla, and set to cool. In 
serving, put one of the molds in a sauce-dish for each person, and 
pour over it some of the boiled custard. Or the pudding may be 
made in one large mold. 

To make a chocolate pudding, flavor the above pudding with 
vanilla, remove two-thirds of it, and add half a cake of chocolate 
softened, mashed, and dissolved in a little milk. Put a layer of 
half the white pudding into the mold, then the chocolate, then the 
rest of the white ; or two layers of chocolate may be used with a 
white between ; or the center may be cocoa (made by adding half 
a cocoa-nut grated fine), and the outside chocolate; or pine-apple 
chopped fine (if first cooked in a little water, the latter makes a 
nice dressing), or strawberries may be used. — Mrs, D. Buxton. 



230 



PUDDINGS AND SA UCES. 



Cream Pudding. 

Stir together one pint cream, three ounces sugar, the yolks of 
three eggs, and a little grated nutmeg ; add the well-beaten whites, 
stirrmg lightly, and pour into a buttered pie-plate on which has 
been sprinkled the crumbs of stale bread to about the thickness of 
an ordinary crust; sprinkle over the top a layer of bread-crumbs 
and bake. 

Cottage Pudding. 

One cup sugar, half cup butter, one egg, cup sweet milk, tea- 
spoon soda dissolved in milk, two tea-spoons cream tartar in the 
flour, three cups flour, half tea-spoon extract of lemon. Sprinkle 
a little sugar over the top just before putting in the oven, bake in 
a small bread-pan, and w^hen done cut in squares, and serve with 
sauce made of two table-spoons butter, cup sugar, table-spoon flour 
wet with a little cold water and stirred until like cream; add a pint 
boiling water, let boil tw^o or three minutes, stirring all the time. 
After taking from the fire, add half tea-spoon extract of lemon. 
Nutmeg may be used in place of lemon. What is left of the pud- 
ding and sauce may be served cold for tea. — 3Irs, Howard Vosbury. 

Chocolate Pudding. 

One quart sweet milk, three ounces grated chocolate, one cup 
sugar, yolks of five eggs ; scald milk and chocolate together, and, 
when cool, add sugar and eggs, and bake. When done, put beaten 
whites and five table-spoons sugar on top, and set in oven to brown. 
Or, boil one pint milk, add half cup butter, one of sugar, and three 
ounces grated chocolate ; pour this over tw o slices of bread soaked 
in water ; w^hen cool, add the well-beaten yolks of four eggs, bake, 
and when done, spread over the whites beaten with sugar, and 
brown in oven. Serve hot or cold. — i/iss Greeley Gh'ubbs, Eichmmd, 
Indiana. 

Cocoa-nut Pudding. 
Grate one cocoa-nut, saving the milk if perfectly sweet, boil a 
quart of milk, and pour upon it, adding five eggs beaten with one 
cup of sugar and one table-spoon butter, add a little salt, two tea- 
spoons vanilla extract, and milk from nut, and bake in a pudding- 
dish lined with rich paste. This is excellent baked like pie with 



PUDDINGS AND SAUCES, 



231 



tinder crust only. A plainer jet good pudding is made by pouring 
one and one-half pints boiling milk over one pint bread-crumbs 
and one cup dessicated cocoa-nut mixed ; add two table-spoons sugar 
and nutmeg to flavor; bake. — Mrs. T. B. Johnson, Lagrange, Tenn. 

English Carrot Pudding. 
One pound grated carrots, three-fourths pound chopped suet, half 

pound each raisins and currants, four table-spoons sugar, eight 
table-spoons flour, and spices to suit the taste. Boil four hours, 
place in the oven for twenty minutes, and serve with wine sauce. — 
Mrs. E. A. IT., Washington, D. G. 

Delmonico Pudding. 
A quart milk, three table-spoons corn -starch dissolved in cold 

milk, the yolks of five eggs beaten well, six table-spoons sugar. 
Boil three or four minutes, pour into a pudding-dish and bake about 
half an hour ; beat whites of eggs with six table-spoons sugar, put 
over top, and return pudding to oven until it is a delicate brown. — 
Mrs. J. Holland, New Oxstle, Ind. 

EsTELLE Pudding. 
Three eggs well beaten, two and a half table-spoons sugar, two 
of butter, three-fourths cup sweet milk, one of raisins chopped fine, 
one table-spoon baking powder, flour to make it the consistency of 
cake batter ; or, one-half measure each of Horsford's Bread Prepar- 
ation and one coflee-cup flour; steam thirty-five minutes, and serve 
with cold cream sauce.— i¥rs. Andrew Wilson, Rye, N. Y, 

Simple Fruit Puddings. 

Stew currants, or any small fruits, fresh or dried, with sugar to 
taste, and pour hot over thin slices of baker's bread with crust cut 
oflT, making alternate layers of fruit and bread, and leaving a thick 
layer of fruit for the last. Put a plate on top, and when cool set 
on ice ; serve with sifted sugar, or cream and sugar. 

This pudding is delicious made with Boston or milk crackers, 
split open, and stewed apricots or peaches, with plenty of juice, ar- 
ranged as above. Or another way is to toast and butter slices of 
bread, pour over it hot stewed fruit in alternate layers, and serve 
warm with rich hot sauce. — Mrs. L. S. W. 

Fig Pudding. 

Half pound figs, quarter pound grated bread, two and a half 



232 



PUDDINGS AND SAUCES. 



ounces powdered sugar, three ounces butter, two eggs, one tea-cup 
milk; chop figs fine and mix with butter, and by degrees add the 
other ingredients; butter and sprinkle a mold with bread-crumbs, 
pour in pudding, cover closely, and boil for three hours ; serve with 
lemon sauce. — Florence Woods Hush. 

Half-hour Pudding. 
Beat four table-spoons butter to a cream with half a pint pow- 
dered sugar ; add the yolks of three eggs, beating them in thor- 
oughly, then a rounded half pint of corn meal, and the whites of 
the eggs beaten to a stiflf froth. Mix well, and bake in a pudding 
dish, well buttered. Serve hot with sauce. 

Boiled Indian Pudding. 
Warm a pint of molasses and pint of milk, stir well together, 
beat four eggs, and stir gradually into molasses and milk ; add a 
pound of beef suet chopped fine, and Indian meal sufficient to make 
a thick batter ; add a tea-spoon pulverized cinnamon, nutmeg and 
a little grated lemon-peel, and stir all together thoroughly ; dip 
cloth into boiling water, shake, flour a little, turn in the mixture, 
tie up, leaving room for the pudding to swell, and boil three hours ; 
serve hot with sauce made of draw^n butter, wine, and nutmeg. — 
Mrs, A. E. Brand, Minneapolis, Minn. 

Baked Indian Pudding. 
A quart sweet milk, an ounce butter, four well-beaten eggs, tea- 
cup corn meal, half pound raisins, fourth pound sugar ; scald milk 
and stir in meal while boiling ; let stand until blood warm, stir all 
well together; bake one and a half hours, and serve with sauce.— 
Mrs. Carrier. 

Kiss Pudding. 

Boil one quart sweet milk in custard-kettle, stir into it four heap- 
ing table-spoons sugar and four table-spoons corn starch, dissolved 
in a little cold water or milk, and added to the well-beaten and 
strained yolks of four eggs. Have the whites of eggs beaten to a 
stiir froth with tea-cup pulverized sugar and one tea-spoon essence 
of vanilla, spread on top of pudding, set in a quick oven, and brown ; 
take out, sprinkle with grated cocoa-nut, set dish away in a cool 



PUDDINGS AND SAUCES. 



233 



place; serve cold after three or four hours. The sweet liquor which 
settles to the bottom in cooling, serves as a sauce.— ifrs. W E. Baxter. 

Lemon Pudding. 
Stir into yolks of six eggs one cup sugar, half a cup water, and 
the grated yellow rind and juice of two lemons ; soften in warm 
water six crackers or some slices of cake, lay in bottom of a baking- 
dish, pour custard over them, bake till firm; beat whites of eggs to 
a froth, add six table-spoons sugar, and beat well ; when custard is 
done, pour frosting over it, return to the oven and brown. Eat 
either warm or cold. — Mrs, Walter MitchelU GalUpoUs. 

Delicious Lkmon Pudding. 
The juice and grated rind of one lemon, cup sugar, yolks of two 
eggs, three well rounded table-spoons flour, a pinch of salt, one pint 
rich milk ; mix the flour and part of the milk to a smooth paste, 
add the juice and rind of lemon, the cup of sugar, yolks well-beaten, 
the rest of the milk (after having rinsed out the egg with it), line 
plate with puff-paste one-fourth inch thick, pour in custard, bake 
in a quick oven until done. Beat whites to a stiff froth, add two 
table-spoons sugar, spread over the top, return to oven and brown. 
Serve with very cold cream ; or, for a very nice dish, add whipped 
cream. This is a rich and not an expensive pudding. The recipe 
makes sufficient for six.— M'S. Col. Wood^, Greensburg, Pa. 

March Pudding. 
One cup dried apples, cup molasses, one and one-fourths cup flour, 
fourth cup butter, one egg, one tea-sjx)on each of soda and cinna- 
mon, half tea-spoon cloves; wash and soak apples over night, cut 
fine and mix with Avater in which they were soaked, add molasses 
and spice ; mix egg, butter and flour together ; stir soda with apples 
and molasses; add and bake immediately; serve hot with sauce made 
of half cup butter and one cup sugar, beaten smooth and flavored 
with nutmeg, lemon or vanilla.— 3fe Lizzie March. 

Minute Pudding. 
Take sweet milk, or half water and milk, a pinch of salt, let boil, 
stir in wheat flour, as in making corn-meal mush, until same thick^ 
ness as mush ; remove from fire, and serve at once with sweetened 



234 



PUDDINGS AND SA UCES. 



cream flavored with nutmeg. Some think it improved by adding 
blackberries, raspberries or cherries, either canned or fresh, just 
before taking from stove. — Yankee Girl. 

Molasses Pudding. 
Three cups of flour, one each of molasses, melted butter and hot 
water ; one tea-spoon soda ; steam three hours ; serve with a sauce 
of butter and sugar worked to a cream, with hot water added to 
make it the proper consistency, and flavored with vanilla. Some 
add a tea-cup raisins. — Mrs. Jeiiks, Bellefontaine. 

One-tw"o-thrp:e-four Pudding. 
One cup butter, two of sugar, three of flour, four eggs (beaten 
separately), one cup sweet milk, and two tea-spoons baking-powder; 
flavor with nutmeg, and bake in pudding or cake mold ; leave in 
mold till next day, when steam for three-quarters of an hour over a 
kettle of boiling water and serve with hot sauce. — Mrs. C. A. Matin, 

Orange Pudding. 
Two large oranges pared and cut in pieces one inch square, put 
in bottom of pudding dish, 2)our over them one cup white sugar, 
then make a plain corn starch pudding Avithout sugar, aad pour it 
over the orange and sugar. Let stand and cool. 

Peach Rolls. 

Stew dried fruit, sweeten, and flavor to taste ; make a good 
baking-powder crust, roll very thin, spread fruit on, putting thin 
slices of butt'^r on the fruit, roll crust up, place in a pan four or 
five inches deep, to three or four rolls add one cup sugar, and a 
half cup butter ; pour in hot water enough to cover them. Bake 
half an hour. — Mrs. J. D. Simmons, Pontotoc, Miss. 

Christmas Plum Pudding. 
One quart seeded raisins, pint currants, half pint citron cut up, 
quart of apples peeled and chopped, a quart of fresh and nicely 
chopped beef-suet, a quart of sweet milk, a heaping quart of stale 
bread-crumbs, eight eggs beaten separately, pint sugar, grated nut- 
meg, tea-spoon salt ; flour fruit thoroughly from a quart of flour, 
then mix remainder as follows : In a large bowl or tray put the 
•eggs with sugar, nutmeg and milk, stir in the fruit, bread-crumbs 



PUDDINGS AND SAUCES, 



235 



and suet, one after the other until all are used, adding enough flour 
to make the fruit stick together, which will take about all the quart ; 
dip pudding-cloth in boiling-water, dredge on inside a thick coating 
of flour, put in pudding and tie tightly, allowing room to swell, and 
boil from two to three hours in a good-sized pot with plenty of hot 
water, replenishing as needed from tea-kettle. When done, turn in 
a large flat dish and send to table with a sprig of holly, or any bit 
of evergreen with bright berries, stuck in the top. Serve with any 
pudding-sauce. This recipe furnishes enough for twenty people, 
but if the family is small, one-half the quantity may be prepared, 
or it is equally good warmed over by steaming. For sauce, cream a 
half pound sweet butter, stir in three-quarters pound brown sugar, 
and the beaten yolk of an egg ; simmer for a few moments over a 
slow fire, stirring almost constantly ; when near boiling add a half 
pint bottled grape-juice, and serve after grating a little nutmeg on 
the surface.— xTfrs. Ex-G(yv. Coke, Texas. 

English Pluivi Pudding. 
Beat six yolks and four whites of eggs very hght, and add to them 
a tumbler of sweet milk ; stir in gradually one-fourth pound grated 
or chopped stale bread, a pound flour, three-quarters pound sugar, 
and a pound each of beef-suet chopped very fine, currants nicely 
washed and dried, and stoned raisins, well floured; stir well, then 
add two nutmegs, a table-spoon mace, one of cinnamon or cloves, a 
wine-glass brandy, a tea-spoon salt, and finally another tumbler of 
milk. Boil in bowls or molds five hours, and serve with sauce 
made of drawn butter, wine, sugar, and nutmeg. These will keep 
for months; when wanted, boil one hour before using. A pound of 
citron or blanched sweet almonds adds to the richness of the pud- 
ding, but may l)e omitted.— i¥rs. Collier, Belief ontaine. 

Eggless Plum Pudding. 
Heaping cup bread-crumbs, two cups flour, one of suet chopped 
fine, one of raisins, one of molasses, one of sweet milk, table-spoon 
soda, tea-spoon salt, one of cloves, and one of cinnamon ; boil two 
and a half hours in a two-quart pail, set in a kettle of boiling water 
or steam for the same time. For sauce take one cup white sugar, 
butter size of an egg, grated rind of one lemon, and white of an 
egg. — Mrs. Mary Lee Gere. 



236 



PUDDINGS AND SAUCES. 



Prairie Plum Pudding. 

Stew together a tea-cup raisins and half tea-cup citron ; prepare 
dish with butter, put in layer of sponge-cake (any kind of cake 
will do, or Boston crackers, sliced and buttered may be used, or 
even stale Graham bread-crumbs), then a layer of fruit, and so on, 
with cake or bread for last layer ; pour over it custard made of a 
quart of milk and yolks of four eggs, sweetened to taste ; bake until 
on inserting a knife the milk has become water. Make a frosting 
of the whites of four eggs and four table-spoons pulverized sugar, 
spread on pudding, brown in oven, and serve with sauce made of 
one tea-cup white sugar, two-thirds pint water, one table-spoon but- 
ter, one tea-spoon corn-starch mixed smoothly with a little cold milk; 
let sugar and water boil, add the rest, and allow to boil a few mo- 
ments, then add the white of one well-beaten egg with one tea-spoon 
vanilla essence. — Mrs. M. E. Godard. 

Plum Pudding. 

Beat together half cup sugar, two eggs and one tea-spoon butter, 
add three pints sweet milk, a little salt, six crackers rolled fine, one 
cup raisins, and a half sheet gelatine dissolved in a little water; 
season with nutmeg or cinnamon. Bake in a pudding-dish. — Mrs, 
Dr. Stall, Union City. 

Poor Man's Pudding. 
A quart of milk, half tea-cup rice, salt to taste, and one tea-cup 
sugar (some add table-spoon butter) ; place in oven while cold, stir- 
ring occasionally while the rice is swelling. Bake quite slowly two 
hours or more. It should be cream-like when done, and must be 
taken immediately from oven. A good test is to tip dish ; if rice 
and milk move together it is done ; if not sufficiently cooked the 
milk runs ; if neither move it is done too much. To vary this, a 
smnll cup raisins and a tea-spoon lemon or vanilla may be added. 
This is a delicious pudding when properly baked, and may be eaten 
warm or cold with sugar or cream.— Mrs. Louise Lincoln, New Bid- 
land. III. 

Pine-apple Pudding. 
Butter a pudding-dish, and line the bottom and sides with slices 
of stale cake (sponge-cake is best), pare and slice thin a large pine- 
apple, place in the dish first a layer of pine-apple, then strew with 



PUDDINGS AND SA UCES. 237 

sugar, then more pine-apple, and so on until all is used, pour over 
a small tea-cup water, and cover with slices of cake which have been 
dipped in cold water ; cover the whole with a buttered plate, and 
bake slowly for ^wo hours.— i/rs. Wm. SniUh, Jacksonville, Fla. 

Potato Pudding. 
Boil six good mealy potatoes, mash very fine, beat well with the 
yolks of five eggs, half pound white sugar, quarter pound butter ; 
beat whites of eggs to stiff froth, add the grated rind and juice of 
one lemon, stir well, and add a little salt and a pint of good milk 
or cream ; bake an hour and a half; reserve some of the whites of 
eggs, mix with sugar, and ice the top.— Ex-GovernoT IngersoU, 
Chrinecticid. 

Pr^jne Pudding. 
Scald one pound French prunes, let them swell in the hot water 
till soft, drain and extract the stones, spread on a dish and dredge 
with flour ; take a gill milk from a quart, stir into it gradually 
eight table-spoons sifted flour; beat six eggs very light and stir by 
degrees into the remainder of quart of milk, alternating with the 
batter; add prunes, one at a time, stir the whole very hard, boil 
two hours, and serve with wine sauce or cream.— i/rs. Emma L. Fay. 

Quick P\jff Pudding. 
Stir one pint flour, two tea-siX)ons baking-powder, and a little salt 
into milk until very soft; place in steamer well-greased cups, put in 
each a spoonful of batter, then one of berries, steamed apples, or 
any sauce convenient, cover with another spoonful of batter and 
steam twentv minutes, This pudding is delicious made with fresh 
strawberries,*^ and eaten with a sauce made of two eggs, half cup 
butter and cup of sug^ar, beaten thoroughly with a cup boiling milk 
and one of strawberries.— i¥r8. B. T. Skhuier, Battk Creek, Mich. 

Queen of Puddings. 
One pint fine sifted bread-crumbs, one quart milk, one cup sugar, 
yolks of four eggs, a piece of butter the size of an egg (some add 
grated rind of lemon) ; bake until done— but do not allow to become 
watery-and spread with a layer of jelly. Whip whites of eggs to 
a stiff froth with five table-spoons sugar, and juice of one lemon, 
spread on the top and brown. Good with or without sauce, and 



238 



PUDDINGS AND SA UCES. 



very good cold. Make a hard sauce for it as follows : One cup 
very light brown sugar, half cup butter, half grated rind and the 
juice of one lemon ; beat until very light. Vanilla may be used 
instead of the lemon. 

Or, for cocoa-nut pudding, soak half cup dessicated cocoa-nut in 
boiling hot milk for half an hour or more, and add to the pudding, 
baking and finishing as above ; or for orange pudding add a half 
dozen grated oranges.— ifrs. Pro/ R. P. Kidder, Cape Girardeau, 
Missouri. 

Rice Pudding. 

To a cup of rice boiled in a custard-kettle in a pint of water (sea- 
soned well with salt) until dry, add a pint of milk in which a little 
corn starch has been dissolved, and boil again; add the yolks of two 
eggs beaten with half a cup of sugar, stir well together, and lastly 
add the juice and grated rind of one lemon. Place in a dish, and 
bake slowly in the oven ; when done, spread over the top the whites 
beaten with two table-spoons sugar, and brown in oven. A cup of 
raisins may be added just before baking. Or, after boiling the rice 
with the milk, eggs, and sugar, add a lump of butter and place a 
layer of the rice, about an inch thick, in a buttered dish sprinkled 
with bread-crumbs, then a layer of peaches (either fresh or canned), 
repeating until dish is full, leaving rice for the last layer ; bake 
siowly for half an hour, and when done, cover with the beaten whites, 
as above. Or, after preparing the rice as above, add pine-apple,' 
chopped fine, or oranges, or dried cherries ; mix thoroughly, and 
bake and finish as above. -J/ns. J. E. IF., 3Iadison, Wis. 

Rice Sxow Balls. 
Boil one pint rice until soft in two quarts water with a tea-spoon 
salt ; put in small cups, and when perfectly cold place in a dish. 
Make a boiled custard of the yolks of three eggs, one pint sweet 
milk, and one tea-spoon corn-starch; flavor with lemon. When 
cold, pour over the rice-balls half an hour before serving. This is 
a very simple but nice dessert. —M.^^ Loidse Shimier. 

Sago and Apple Pudding. 
Pare six apples and punch out the cores, fill holes with cinnamon 
and sugar, using two tea-spoons cinnamon to a cup of sugar ; taJke 



PUDDINGS AND SAUCES, 



239 



one table-spoon sago to each apple, wash it thoroughly and let soak 
an hour in water enough to cover the apples, Dour w^ater and sago 
over the apples, and bake an hour and a half. 

Pudding. 

One cup molasses, one of sweet milk, one of suet chopped fine, 
or half a cup melted butter, one of raisins, half cup currants, two 
and a half cups flour, half tea-spoon soda ; mix well, salt and spice 
to taste, and steam two hours. — Mrs. S. W. Case, Minmapolis, Minn. 

Apple Tapioca Pudding. 
To half tea- cup of tapioca, add one and one-half pints cold water, 
let it stand on the fire till cooked clear, stirring to prevent burning, 
remove, sweeten and flavor with wine and nutmeg; pour the tapi- 
oca into a deep dish in which have been placed six or eight pared 
and cored apples, bake until apples are done, and serve cold with 
cream. — Mrs. S. C. Lee. 

WhortlebePvRY Pudding. 
One quart berries, pint molasses, cup milk, tea-spoon soda, one 
pound and two ounces flour, one tea-spoon cloves, one of cinnamon, 
and one nutmeg; boil two and a half hours. — Mrs. Emma Fay. 

Grandma Thomson's White Pudding. 

Weigh equal quantities of best beef suet and sifted flour, shave 
down suet and rub into fine particles with the hands, removing all 
tough and stringy parts, mix well with the flour, season very 
highly with pepper, salt to taste, stufl" loosely in beef-skins (entrails 
cleansed hke pork-skins for sausage), half a yard or less in length, 
secure the ends, prick every two or three inches w^ith a darning- 
needle, place to boil in a kettle of cold water hung on the crane ; 
boil three hours, place on table until cold, after which hang up in a 
cool place to dry ; tie up in a clean cotton bag. and put away where 
it it will be both dry and cool. When wanted for use, cut ofl* the 
quantity needed, boil in hot water until heated through, take out 
and place before the fire to dry ofl* and "crisp." The above w^as 
considered an ''extra" dish at all the " flax scutchings," ''quilting 
frolics," and "log rollings" of a hundred years ago. 

The same by measure is as follows : One pint best beef suet to 



240 



SA UCES. 



two pints flour; mix thoroughly, season very highly with pepper 
and salt, sew up little sacks of cotton cloth half a yard long and 
three inches wide, fill nearly full, put to boil in hot water, boil 
from four to six hours; when done, take out, drain, let cool, hang 
in a dry, cool place, and when wanted for table, cut off as much as 
needed, put on hot water, boil until cooked through, take out, peel 
-off cloth, put in a pie-pan, set in oven to dry and brown. — Mrs. 
E. T. Carson, Mt. Pleasant Farm. 



SAUCES. 



BUTTERLESS SaUCE. 

Place one half a gill of milk in a pan in boiling water ; when 
scalding put in half a pint of powdered sugar mixed with the yolks 
of two eggs, stir until thick as boiled custard, take ofl" ; when cool 
add flavoring. Just before serving mix the well-beaten whites 
lightly with the sauce. 

Cider Sauce. 

Mix two table-spoons butter with an even table-spoon of flour ; 
stir in half a pint of brown sugar, and half a gill of boiled cider ; 
add a gill of boiling w^ater, mix well, let it simmer a few moments ; 
serve hot. 

Cocoa-nut Sauce. 
Two table-spoons butter, cup of sugar, table-spoon of flour, milk 

of one cocoa-nut, with a small piece grated. 

Cream Sauce. 

One tea-cup powdered white sugar, scant half tea-cup butter, half 
tea-cup rich cream ; beat butter and sugar thoroughly, add cream, 
stir the whole into half tea-cup boiling water, place on stove for a 
few moments, stirring it constantly, take off and add flavoring. 

Cold Cream Sauce. 
Beat together one cup sugar and half cup butter, and add a cup 
rich cream. Stir all to a cream, flavoring with vanilla or lemon, and 
place where it will get very cold before serving. — Mrs. A. Wilson. 

Plain Cream Sauce. 
One pint cream, three table-spoons brown sugar, and half a small 

nutmeg grated. 



SA UCES. 



241 



EvERY-DAY Sauce, 
To one pint boiling water, add heaping tea-cup sugar, table-spoon 
butter (see General Directions), pinch of salt, and table-spoon corn 
starch dissolved in cold water ; season with nutmeg or vanilla, boil 
half an hour, and if good and well cooked it will be very clear. 
Or, to a table-spoon of currant jelly, add a table-spoon of hot 
water; beat well and add to the above just before serving, omitting 
all other flavoring. Or, add a tea-spoon of raspberry syrup. 

Foaming Sauce. 
Beat whites of three eggs to a stiff froth ; melt tea-cup of sugar 
in a little water, let it boil, stir in one glass wine, and then the 
whites of the three eggs; serve at once. — 3L's. Carrie Glazier, Chi- 
eago, III, 

Jelly Sauce. 

Melt one ounce of sugar and two table-spoons gra}^ jelly over the 
fire in a half pint of boiling water, and stir into it half a tea-spoon 
corn starch dissolved in a half cup cold water, let come to a boil, 
and it will be ready for use. Any other fruit jelly may be used 
instead of grape. 

Lemon Sauce. 

Two cups sugar, two eggs, juice and rind of two lemons; beat all 
together, and just before serving add pint boiling water; set on 
stove, and when at boiling point, serve. Never boil sauce after 
adding lemon, as it makes it bitter. Some add one-third cup but- 
ter and table-spoon corn starch. 

Maple Sugar Sauce. 
Melt over a slow fire, in a small tea-cup of w^ater, half a pint 
maple sugar; let it simmer, removing all scum; add four table- 
spoons butter mixed with a level tea-spoon flour, and one of grated 
nutmeg ; boil for a few^ moments, and serve with boiled puddings. 
Or, make a hard sauce" of one table-spoon butter to two of sugar. 

Minnehaha Sauce. 
Beat, in a two quart bowd, four table-spoons butter and two 
thirds pint brow^n sugar, to a cream, with a wooden spoon ; then 
add four table-spoons sweet cream, then the juice and grated rind 
16 



242 



SA UCES, 



of a large lemon ; place the bowl on top of the tea-kettle half full 
of boiling water ; when melted to a thick creamy froth, serve. 

Orange Hard Sauce. 
Select a thin orange, cut the skin into six equal parts, by cutting 
through the skin at the stem end and passing tlie knife around the 
orange to nearly the blossom end ; loosen and turn each piece down 
and remove the orange. Extract juice and mix it with yellow sugar 
(prepared by dropping a drop or two of " gold coloring" on white 
sugar while stirring it) till a ball can be ibrmed, which place inside 
the orange-peel and serve. The ''gold coloring" may be omitted. 
Lemon sauce may be made in the same way. 

Pine-apple Sauce. 
Mix two table-spoons butter and four heaping table-spoons sugar 
(some add white of an egg), flavor w^ith pine-apple (or any other 
flavoring), form a pyramid, and with a tea-spoon shape it like 
a pine-apple. Or, to a grated pine-apple add a very little water, 
simmer until quite tender, mix with it, by degrees, half its weight 
in sugar, boil gently for five minutes, and serve. 

Strawberry Sauce. 
Half tea-cup of butter, one and a half tea-cups of sugar, and one 
pint of strawberries mashed till juicy. (Canned berries may be 
substituted for fresh ones). Beat the butter and sugar to a cream; 
then stir in tli© berries and the beaten w^iite of an egg. 

Vinegar Sauce. 
One and a half cups sugar, one and a half table-spoons flour in a 
little water, two table-s]x>ons vinegar, quarter of a grated nutmeg, 
and a pinch of salt; pour over this one and a half pints boiling 
water, and boil ten minutes ; just before taking from stove add one 
dessert-spoon of butter. — Mrs. G. W. Collins, Urhana. 

\yHippED Cream Sauce. 
Whip a pint of thick sweet cream, add the beaten whites of 
two eggs, sweeten to taste; place pudding in center of dish, and 
surround with the sauce ; or pile up in center and surroand with 
molded blanc-mange, or fruit puddings. — Mrs. Geo. Bever, Cedar 
Itapids, la. 



PRESEKVES. 



Preserves, to be perfect, must be made with the greatest care. 
Economy of time and trouble is a waste of fruit and sugar. The 
best are made by putting only a small amount of fruit at a time 
in the syrup, after the latter has been carefully prepared and clar- 
ified, and the fruit neatly pared. Peel peaches, pears, quinces and 
apples, and throw into cold water as you peel them to prevent their 
turning dark. It is difficult to watch a large quantity so as to 
insure its being done to a turn. 

The old rule is a pound of sugar to pound of fruit; " but since 
the introduction of cans, three-quarters of a pound of sugar to a 
pound of fruit is sufficient, and even less is sometimes used, the 
necessity for an excess of sugar having passed away, as preserves 
may be less sweet, with no risk of fermentation, if sealed. Either 
tin or glass cans may be used, care being taken to make the sealing 
perfect. 

Quinces, pears, citrons, watermelon-rinds, and many of the smaller 
fruits, such as cherries, currants, etc., harden when put, at first, 
into a syrup made of their weight of sugar. To prevent this they 
should be cooked till tender in water, or in a weak syrup made 
from a portion only of the sugar, adding the remainder afterward. 
In preserving fruits, such as apples, peaches, tomatoes, plums and 
strawberries, and other fruits, whicli are likely to become too soft in 
cooking, it is a good plan to pour the hot syrup over the fruit, or to 
strew over it a part or all the sugar, and allow it to stand a few 
hours ; by either method the juice is extracted, and the fruit hard- 

(243) 



244 



PRESER VES, 



ened. Another approved method of hardening fruit is to skim it 
out of syrup after cooking a few minutes, and lay it in the hot sun 
two or three hours, and then pour over it the boihng syrup. Long 
protracted boiling destroys the pleasant natural flavor of the ^ruit, 
and darkens it. 

Preserves should boil gently to avoid the danger of burning, and 
in order that the sugar may thoroughly penetrate the fruit. A good 
syrup is made in the proportion of half Y^wi water to a pound of 
sugar. Use loaf or granulated sugar. Put the sugar and water 
over the fire in a porcelain kettle, and, just before it boils, stir in 
the white of an egg beaten lightly with tw^o table-spoons water ; and, 
as it begins to boil, remove the scum with great care ; boil until no 
more scum arises, and then add fruit. Or the white of the egg 
may be mixed thoroughly with the dry sugar in the kettle, and the 
iboiiing water poured over, when all impurities will immediately rise 
to the surface with the egg, then boil slowly, or rather simmer, until 
the preserves are clear. Take out each piece with a skimmer and 
lay on a fiat dish to cool, or else put in the jars at once. Stew the 
syrup, skimming off the scum which rises, until it ropes'' from the 
spoon. If the preserves are already in the jar pour the syrup over 
them and seal ; if on dishes, retuim them to the syrup and boil up 
once before putting up. This is merely a matter of choice, and we 
have never found any difference in the results of the two methods. 
Preserves may be made from canned fruit (and some prefer to do 
this rather than make in the hot season), using less sugar than the 
rule. When preserving canned peaches or apples, it is an improve- 
ment to add a few sliced oranges or lemons. When berries or small 
fruits are done, take up with a little strainer, and place in cans; 
if a cup is used, it is impossible to free them from the syrup. 

Marmalades, or the different butters, will be smoother and better 
flavored, and will require less boiling, if the fruit (peaches, quinces, 
oranges and apples make the best) is well cooked and mashed before 
adding either sugar or cider. It is important to stir constantly with 
an apple-butter stirrer. 

In making either preserves or marmalades, follow the directions 
as regards kettle, sugar, and putting up, already given for jellies 
and jams, covering at once, but not putting away till cold. When 



PRESERVES, 



245 



preserves are dandied, set jar in kettle of cold water, and let boil 
for an hour ; or put them in a crock kept for that purpose, set in 
oven and boil a few minutes, watching carefully to prevent burn- 
ing. When specks of mold appear, take them off carefully, and 
scald preserves as above directed. 

Dried fruits are much better and require less boiling, if clean soft 
water is poured over them and allowed to stand over night. In the 
morning boil until tender in the water, sweetening five minutes 
before removing from the stove. 

To dry corn or fruits nicely, spread in shallow boxes or box cov- 
ers, and cover with mosquito netting to prevent flies reaching them. 
When dry, put up in jars and cover closely, or in paper sacks. 
Dried peaches are better when halved and the cavities sprinkled 
with sugar in drying. The fruit must be good, however, as poor 
fruit can not be redeemed by any process. Another excellent way 
is to dry them in the oven, and, when about half done, place in a 
crock a layer of peaches alternately with a layer of sugar. Cherries 
and currants are excellent dried as follows: Put in jars first a layer 
of fruit, then a layer of sugar, in the proportion of half a pound 
sugar to pound of fruit, let stand over night, place them to boil, 
skimming off all scum, let boil ten or fifteen minutes, skim out and 
spread on dishes to dry in the sun, or by the fire, turning frequently 
until dry ; then place on pans in oven, stirring with the hand often 
until the heat is too great to bear. They may then be packed in 
jars w^ith sugar, or put away in paper sacks, or stone crocks with a 
cloth tied close over the top, and are an excellent substitute for 
raisins in puddings or mince-pies. 

The secret of keeping dried fruit is to exclude the light, and to keep 
in a dry and cool place. Paper sacks, or a barrel or box lined with 
paper, are secure against moths. Reheating fruit makes it dark in 
color, and impairs its flavor. Always fill a fruit-can, and keep for 
present use, to avoid opening the large jars often. 

Apple Pre^ekves. 

Take three-quarters of a pound sugar to each pound apples; make 
a syrup of the sugar and water in which root ginger (bruised and 



246 



FEESERVES. 



tied in a bag) has been boiled until the strength is well extracted, 
add a little lemon-juice or sliced lemon, skim off all scum, and boil 
in the syrup a few apples at a time, until they are transparent, and 
place in jar. When all are done, boil the syrup until thick, pour, 
boiling hot, over the apples, and cover closely. Well-flavored fruit, 
not easily broken in cooking, should be used. The ginger may be 
omitted if disliked. 

Carrot Sweetmeats. 
Boil small fine-grained carrots in water till tender ; peel and grate, 
add sugar, slips of citron, spices if preferred, and wine; simmer 
slowly together and put away in jars. Very wholesome for chil- 
dren and very much liked. The juice from any canned fruit sold 
would take the place of the simple wine used here — the alcoholic 
mixtures sold in America being utterly unfit for household con- 
sumption.— ifrs. S, Williston, Heidelberg, Germany. 

Cherry Preserves. 
Choose sour ones — the early Richmond is good— seed all very 
carefully, allow an amount of sugar equal to the fruit; take half 
the sugar, sprinkle over the fruit, let stand about an hour, pour into 
a preserving-kettle, boil slowly ten minutes, skim out the cherries, 
add rest of sugar to the syrup, boil, skim and pour over the cher- 
ries ; the next day drain off the syrup, boil, skim if necessary, add 
the cherries, boil twenty minutes, and seal up in small jars. — Mrs. 
J, M. Southard. 

Citron Preserves. 
Pare off rind, seed, cut in thin slices two inches long, weigh, and 
put in preserving kettle with water enough to cover ; boil one hour, 
take out the melon, and to the water in kettle add as much sugar 
as there is melon by weight, boil until quite thick, replace melon, 
add two sliced lemons to each pound of fruit, boil twenty minutes, 
take out, boil syrup until it is very thick molasses, and pour it over 
the fruit.— il/?'8. J. H. Bobiyison, Kenton, Ohio. 

Fig Preserves. 
Gather fruit when fully ripe, but not cracked open ; place in a 
perforated tin bucket or wire basket, and dip for a moment into a 
deep kettle of hot and moderately strong lye (some prefer letting 



PRESERVES. 



247 



them lie an hour in lime-water and afterwards drain) ; make a syrup 
in proportion of one pound sugar to one of fruit, and when the figs 
are well drained, put them in syrup and boil until well cooked ; 
remove, boil syrup down until there is just enough to cover fruit ; 
put fruit back in syrup, let all boil, and seal up while hot in glass 
or porcelain jars. — Ex- Gov. Stearns, Florida. 

Grape Preserves. 
Pick grapes from the stems, pop pulps from the skins, doing two 
at a time, one in each hand between the thumb and forefinger. Put 
pulp in a porcelain kettle and stew gently until the seeds are loosen- 
ed ; then strain and rub it through a sieve, weigh it with the skins, 
and to every pound of this allow one pound of granulated sugar. 
Put skins and juice in kettle, cover closely, and cook slowly until 
the skins are tender; while still boiling add the sugar, and move the 
kettle back, as it must not boil again ; keep very hot for fifteen 
minutes, then, seeing that the sugar is thoroughly dissolved, pour 
the fruit in cans, and screw down the covers as soon as possible. 

Pear Preserves. 
Pare, cut in halves, core and weigh (if hard, boil in water until 
tender, and use the water for the syrup), allow three-quarters 
pound sugar for each pound fruit, boil a few moments, skim, and 
cool ; when luke-warm add pears, and boil gently until syrup has 
penetrated them and they look clear ; some of the pieces will cook 
before the rest, and must be removed ; when done, take out, boil 
down syrup a little and pour over them ; a few cloves stuck here 
and there in the pears add a pleasant flavor. Put in small jars 
with glass or tin tops, and seal with putty. — Miss Florence Williams. 

Peach Preserves. 
Take any fine peaches that do not mash readily in cooking, pare 
carefully and remove pits; take sugar equal in weight to fruit, 
(or if to be sealed, three-quarters pound sugar to the pound of fruit), 
and water in proportion of a half pint to each pound of sugar. 
Boil pits in the water, adding more as it evaporates, to keep the 
proportion good, remove pits, add the sugar, clarify, and when the 
scum ceases to rise, add the fruit, a small quantity at a time ; cook 
slowly about ten minutes, skim out into a jar, add more, and so on 



248 



PRESER VES. 



until all are done, and then pour the boiling syrup over all. The 
next day drain off and boil syrup a few minutes only, and pour back,, 
repeating daily until the fruit looks clear. Two or three times \b 
generally sufficient. The last time put up the preserves in small jars, 
and secure with paper as directed for jellies. If to be sealed in cans» 
the first boiling is sufficient, after which put into cans and seal im- 
mediately. The latter plan is preferable, as it takes less trouble 
and less sugar, while the natural flavor of the fruit is better re- 
tained. Many think peach preserves much nicer if made with 
maple sugar. Clingstone peaches are preserved in the same way 
whole, except that they must be put on in clear water and boiled 
until so tender that they may be pierced with a silver fork before 
adding the sugar. 

Plum Preserves. 
AJlow equal weights sugar and plums; add sufficient water to 
the sugar to make a thick syrup, boil, skim, and pour over the 
plums (previously washed, pricked and placed in a stone jar), and 
cover with a plate. The next day drain off syrup, boil, skim, and 
pour in over plums; repeat this for three or four days, place plums 
and syrup in the preserving-kettle, and boil very slowly for half an 
hour. Put up in stone jars, cover with papers like jellies, or seal 
in cans. — ifrs. J. H. Shearer. 

Plum Sweetmeats. 
When Damson plums are perfectly ripe, peel and divide them, 
taking out the stones ; put them over a gentle heat to cook in their 
own juice ; when soft rub them through a sieve, and return to 
the stove, adding just enough sugar to sweeten, a little cinnamon, 
and, when nearly done, wine in quantity to suit the taste. This is 
done more to keep the sweetmeats than for the flavor, as self-sealing 
cans are not used here, and all preserves are pasted up with the 
white of eggs. The common wine of the country is thin and sour 
and is much used in cookery.— L. S. Williston, Heidelberg , 
Germany. 

Quince and Apple Preserves. 
Take equal weights of quinces and sugar, pare, core, leave whole 
or cut up, as preferred, boil till tender in water enough to cover, 
carefully take out and put on a platter, add sugar to the water. 



PRESER VES. 



249 



replace fruit and boil slowly till clear, place in jars a.nd pour syrup 
over them. To increase the quantity without adding sugar, take 
half or two-thirds in weight as many fair sweet apples as there are 
quinces, pare, quarter, and core; after removing quinces, put apples 
into the syrup, and boil until they begin to look red and clear, and 
are tender; place quinces and apples in jar in alternate layers, and 
cover with syrup. For the use of parings and cores, see ^' Quince 
Jelly." Apples alone may be preserved in the same way. 

Straw^berry Preserves. 
Put two pounds of sugar in a bright tin-pan over a kettle of 
boiling water, and pour into it half a pint of boiling water; when 
the sugar is dissolved and hot, put in fruit, and then place the pan 
directly on the stove or range ; let boil ten minutes or longer if the 
fruit is not clear, gently (or the berries will be broken) take up with 
a small strainer, and keep hot while the syrup is boiled down until 
thick and rich; drain off the thin syrup from the cans, and pour 
the rich syrup over the berries to fill, and screw down the tops im- 
mediately. The thin syrup poured off may be brought to boiling, 
and then bottled and sealed, to be used for sauces and drinks. 

Tomato Pri^erves. 

Scald and peel carefully small perfectly -formed tomatoes, not 
too ripe (yellow pear-shaped are best), prick with a needle to pre- 
vent bursting, add an equal amount of sugar by weight, let lie over 
night, then pour off all juice into a preserving-kettle, and boil until 
it is a thick syrup, clarifS'ing with white of an egg ; add tomatoes 
and boil carefully until they look transparent. A piece or two of 
root-ginger, or one lemon to a pound of fruit sliced thin and cooked 
with the fruit, may be added. 

Watermelon Preserves. 

Pare off outside green rind, cut in pieces two inches long, weigh, 
throw into cold water, skim out, add a heaping tea-spoon each of 
salt and pulverized alum to two gallons of rinds, let stand until salt 
and alum dissolve, fill the kettle with cold w^ater, and place on top 
of stove where it will slowly come to boiling point, covering with a 
large plate so as to keep rinds under ; boil until they can be easily 
pierced with a fork, drain them from the water, and put into a syi^up 



250 



PRESER VES. 



previously prepared as follows : Bruise and tie iu a muslin bag four 
ounces of ginger-root, and boil in two or three pints of water until 
it is strontrlv flavored. At the same time boil in a little water 

CD 

until tender, in another pan, three or four sliced lemons; make a 
syrup of the sugar and the water in which the lemons and the gin- 
ger-root w^ere boiled, add the rinds and slices of lemon to this and 
boil slowly half to three-quarters of an hour. Citrons may be pre- 
pared in the same way, by paring, coring and slicing, or cutting 
into fanciful shapes with tin cutters made for the purpose. 

Apple Butter. 

Boil one barrel of new cider down half, peel and core three 
bushels of good cooking apples ; when the cider has boiled to half 
the quantity, add the apples, and when soft, stir constantly for 
from eight to ten hours. If done it will adhere to an inverted 
plate. Put away in stone jars (not earthen ware), covering first 
with writing-paper cut to fit the jar, and press down closely upon 
the apple butter ; cover the whole with thick brown paper snugly 
tied down. — Mis8 Sarah Thomson, Delaiuare. 

Egg Butter. 

Boil a pint of molasses slowly about fifteen or twenty minutes, 
stirring to prevent burning, add three eggs well beaten, stirring 
them in as fast as possible, boil a few minutes longer, partially cool, 
and flavor to taste with lemon. — 3Irs. Colheii, Broadway. 

Lemon Butter. 
Tea-cup white sugar, three eggs, butter the size of half an egg, 
beat well together ; add juice and grated rind of one large lemon, 
place in a pan set in a kettle of hot water, stir well until thick. 
This may be made up in quantity, kept for a long time in bottles 
or jars, and used as needed for filling tarts, etc. 

Pumpkin Butter. 
Take the seeds out of one pumpkin, cut in small pieces and boil 
soft ; take three other pumpkins, cut them in pieces and boil them 
soft, put them in a coarse bag and press out juice; add juice to 
first pumpkin, and let boil ten hours or more, to become of the 
thickness of butter; stir often. If the pumpkins are frozen, the 
ifCice will come out much easier. 



PRESERVES. 



251 



Pie-plant Butter. 
Allow one pound of sugar to each pound of peeled and cut up 
rhubarb ; let the rhubarb and sugar simmer gently for an hour, or 
more if the rhubarb is old and tough. This is a nice preserve, and 
children should be encouraged to eat it during the winter. 

OkANGE MARiVIALADE. 

Twelve pounds sour oranges, twelve pounds crushed sugar ; wash 
the oranges and pare them as you would apples ; put the peel in a 
porcelain-lined kettle with twice its bulk or more of cold water; 
keep it covered, and boil until perfectly tender; if the water boils 
away, add more ; the peel is generally very hard, and requires 
several hours boiling; cut the oranges in two crosswise, and squeeze 
out the juice and the soft pulp, have a pitcher with a strainer in the 
top, place in a two-quart bowl, squeeze the thin juice and seeds in 
the strainer and the rest with the pulp in the bowl, drawing the 
skin as you squeeze it over the edge of the tin strainer, to scrape off 
the pulp, then pour all the juice and pulp on the sugar ; the white 
skins must be covered with three quarts of cold water, and boiled 
half an hour, drain the water on the sugar, put the white skins in 
the colander, four or five together, and pound off the soft part, of 
which there must be in all two pounds and four ounces, put this with 
the sugar and juice ; when the peel is tender drain it from the water, 
and choose either of these three modes: Pound it in a mortar, chop 
it in a bowl, or cut it in delicate shreds with a pair of scissors. There 
is still another way, which saves the necessity of handling the peel 
after it is boiled ; it is to grate the yellow rind from the orange, then 
tie it in a muslin bag, and boil until soft, which you can tell by 
rubbing a little of it between the thumb and finger ; it is then ready 
for the other ingredients; put the w^hole in a porcelain kettle, or in 
a bright tin preserving-pan, and boil about an hour; when it begins 
to thicken it must be tried occasionally, by letting a little cool in a 
spoon laid on ice. To prevent its burning, pass the spoon often over 
the bottom of the kettle ; when it is thick as desired put it in tum- 
blers and cover with paper. — Mrs. Elizabeth S. Miller' in In tlie 
Kitchen." 

Peach Marmalade. 
Choose ripe, well-flavored fruit, and it is well to make with pre- 



252 



PRESER VES, 



serves, reserving for marmalade those that are too soft. The flavor 
is improved by first boiling the pits in the water with which the 
syrup is to be made. Quarter the peaches and boil thirty minutes 
before adding sugar, stirring almost constantly from the time the 
peaches begin to be tender ; add sugar in the proportion of three- 
fourths pound sugar to one pound fruit, continue to boil and stir 
for an hour longer, and put up in jars, pressing paper over them as 
directed for jellies. 

Quince Marmalade. 
Pare, quarter and core quinces, cut in little squares, measure 
and allow an equal amount of sugar ; place the fruit in a porcelain 
kettle with just water enough to cover, boil till tender, and skim 
out carefully ; make a syrup of the sugar and the water in which 
the quinces were boiled, let come to boiling point, skim well, and 
drop the quinces gently in ; boil fifteen minutes and dip out care- 
fully into jelly-bowls or molds. The syrup forms a jelly around 
the fruit so that it can be turned out on a dish, and is very palat- 
able as well as ornamental. In this way quinces too defective for 
preserves may be used. — Mrs. Mary A. Cooper, 

Dried Apple Sauce. 
Look over, wash thoroughly and soak fifteen minutes in clean 

warm water ; drain, cover with cold soft water, place on the stove, 

let boil slowly two to four hours, mash fine, sweeten, and season 

with cinnamon very highly. Never add sugar until about five 

minutes before removing from the stove, otherwise the fruit will be 

toughened and hardened. Follow the same direction in preparing 

dried peaches, only do not mash or season so highly. Cook in 

porcelain, and do not stir while cooking. 

Boiled Cider Apple Sauce. 
Pare, quarter and core apples sufiicient to fill a gallon porcelain 

kettle, put in it a half gallon boiled cider, let it boil. Wash the 

apples and put in kettle, place a plate over them, and boil steadily 

but not rapidly until they are thoroughly cooked, testing by taking 

one from under the edge of the plate with a fork. Do not remove 

the plate until done, or the apples will sink to the bottom and 

burn. Apples may be cooked in sweet cider in the same way. — 

Mrs. W. W. W. 



PBESER VES. 



253 



Preserved Citrox. 
Boil the citron in water until it is clear and soft enough to be 
easily pierced with a fork ; take out, put into a nice syrup of sugar 
and water, and boil until the sugar has penetrated it. Take out 
and spread on dishes to dry slowly, sprinkling several limes with 
powdered sugar, and turning until it is dried enough. Pack m 
jars or boxes with sugar between the layers. 

Tomato Figs. 

Scald and skin pear-shaped (or any small-sized) tomatoes, and to 
eight pounds of them add three pounds brown sugar ; cook without 
water until the sugar penetrates and they have a clear appearance, 
take out, spread on dishes, and dry in the sun, sprinkling on a little 
syrup while dryinir ; pack in jars or boxes, in layers with powdered 
sugar between." Thus put up they will keep for any length of time, 
and are nearly equal to figs. Peaches may be preserved m the 
same way.— i/r.s. John Sammk, Covington, Ky. 

Dried Currants. 
One pint sugar to a pint of stemmed ripe currants ; put them 
together in a porcelain kettle, a layer of currants at the bottom ; 
when the sugar is dissolved, let them boil one or two mmutes, skim 
from the syrup, and spread on plates to dry in a partly cooled oven. 
Boil the syrup until thickened, pour it over the currants, and dry 
it with them. Pack in jars and cover closely. Blackberries may 
be dried in the same manner. An economical way of making jelly 
is to boil liquid, skimming well, after currants are taken out, until 
it becomes jelly, and then put away in jelly glasses. 



PICKLES. 



In making pickles use none but the best cider vinegar, and boil 
in a porcelain kettle— never in metal. A lump of alum size of a 
small nutmeg, to a gallon of cucumbers, dissolved and added to the 
vinegar when scaJding the pickles the first time, renders them crisp 
and tender, but too much is injurious. Keep in a dry, cool cellar, 
in glass or stoneware ; look at them frequently and remove all soft 
ones ; if white specks appear in the vinegar, drain off and scald, 
adding a liberal handful of sugar to each gallon, and pour again 
over the pickles ; bits of horse-radish and a few cloves assist in pre- 
serving the life of the vinegar. If put away in large stone jars, 
invert a saucer over the top of the pickles, so as to keep them well 
under the vinegar. The nicest way to put up pickles is bottling, 
sealing while hot, and keeping in a cool, dark place. Many 
think that mustard-seed improves pickles, especially chopped, 
bottled, and mangoes, but use it, as well as horse-radish and 
cloves, sparingly. Never put up pickles in any thing that 
has held any kind of grease, and never let them freeze. Use 
an oaken tub or cask for pickles in brine, keep them well under, and 
have more salt than will dissolve, so that there will always be plenty 
at the bottom of the cask. The brine for pickles should be strong 
enough to bear an egg; make it in the proportion of a heaping jDint 
of coarse salt to a gallon of water. Use coarse salt, and test pickles 
by tasting before putting on vinegar (they should be of a pleasant 
saltness) ; if not salt enough, add salt to brine and allow them to 
stand until they have acquired the proper flavor ; if too salt, cover 
with weak vinegar, and let stand for two or three days, drain, add- 
ing strong vinegar, either hot or cold according to recipes, and finish 
as directed. In the case of kegs of cucumbers kept in brine for 
a long time, to be used when needed, it is better to err in using too 
much salt, as this may be corrected by adding the weak vinerrar, 
but if not sufficiently salted the pickles will be insipid. In scalding 



PICKLES. 



255 



cucumber pickles to green them, some use cabbage leaves, covering 
bottom, sides, and top of kettle. A medium spicing for a quart of 
pickles is a level tea-spoon of peppercorns (whole black peppers), 
the same of allspice, a table-spoon of broken stick cinnamon, half a 
teaspoon of cloves, mustard seed, or horse-radish chopped fine, and 
one piece of ginger root, an inch long. If ground cayenne pepper 
is used instead of whole peppers, an eighth of a tea-spoon is enough. 
A better substitute for peppercorns is garden-peppers cut in rings, 
in proportion of two rings of green and one of red without seeds, or 
a level tea-spoon, when finely chopped, to a quart of pickles. These 
proportions may be increased or decreased to suit the taste, taking 
care not to put in so much of any one as to make its flavor pre- 
dominate. Ginger is the most wholesome of the spices. Cloves are 
the strongest, mace next, then allspice and cinnamon, and, of course, 
less of the stronger should be used. Pickles are not famous for 
wholesome qualities, even when made with the greatest care, but if 
they must be eaten, it is best to make them at home. Those sold 
in market are often colored a beautiful green with sulphate of cop- 
per, which is a deadly poison, or are cooked in brass or copper ves- 
sels, which produces the same result in an indirect way. Scalding 
or parboiling articles to be pickled makes them absorb the vinegar 
more easily, but does not add to their crispness. Before putting 
them in vinegar, after parboiling, they should be cold and perfectly 
dry. Always use strong vinegar, or the pickles will be insipid, and 
it should be scalding hot when poured on, as raw vinegar becomes 
ropy and does not keep well. The fact that the heating causes it to 
lose some strength is an additional reason why it should be very strong 
in the beginning. Keep pickles from the air, and see that th e ^ me^ar 
is at least two inches over the top of pickles in the jar. A dry wooden 
spoon or ladle should be used in handling pickles, and is the only one 
that should touch pickles in the jars. If the vinegar loses its 
strength it should be replaced by good, poured over scalding hot. 



Pickled Artichokes. 
Eub off outer skin with a coarse towel, and lay in salt water for 
a day, drain and pour over them cold spiced vinegar, adding a tea- 
STX>on of horse-radish to each jar. 



256 



PICKLES. 



Bean Pickles. 

Pick green beans of the best variety, when young and tender, 
string, and phice in a kettle to boil, with salt to taste, until they 
can be pierced with a fork, drain well through a colander, put in a 
stone jar, sprinkle with cayenne pepper, and cover with strong cider 
vinegar; sugar may be added if desired. 

Bottled Pickles. 

Wash and wipe a half bushel of medium-sized cucumbers, suit- 
able for pickling, pack close in a stone jar, sprinkle over the top one 
pint of salt, pour over a sufficient quantity of boiling water to cover 
them, place a cloth over the jar, and let stand until cold (if pre- 
pared in the evening, let stand all night), drain off the water, and 
place the pickles on stove in cold vinegar, let them come to a boil, 
take out, place in a stone jar, and cover with either cold or hot 
vinegar. They will be ready for use in a few days, and are excel- 
lent It is an improvement to add a few spices and a small quan- 
tity of sugar. 

To bottle them, prepare with salt and boiling water as above, 
drain (when cr)ld), and place a gallon at a time on a stove in enough 
cold vniegar to cover level (need not be very strong), to which a 
lump of alum about the size of a small hickory-nut (too much is 
iujurious) has been added. Have on stove, in another kettle, a 
gallon of the very best cider vinegar, to which add half a pint of 
brown sugar ; have bottles cleansed and placed to heat on stove in 
a large tin-pan of cold \vater; also have a tin cup or small pan 
of sealing-wax heated ; on table, have spices prepared in separate 
dishes, as follows: Green and red peppers sliced in rings; horse- 
radish roots washed, scraped, and cut in small pieces, black and 
yellow mustard seed (or this may be left out), each prepared by 
sprinkling with salt and pouring on some boiling water, which let 
stand fifteen minutes and then draw off ; stick cinnamon washed free 
from dust, and ])roken in pieces, and a few^ cloves. When pickles 
come to boiling point, take out and pack in bottles, mixing with them 
the spices (use the cloves, horse-radish and mustard seed, sparingly); 
put in a layer of pickles, then a layer of spices, shaking the bot- 
tles occasionally so as to pack tightly ; when full cover with the 



PICKLES. 



257 



boiling hot vinegar from the other kettle (using a bright funnel and 
bright tin cup), going over them a second time and filling up, in 
order to supply shrinkage, for the pickles must be entirely cov- 
ered with the vinegar. Put in the corks, which should fit very 
snuglv, lift each bottle (wrap a towel around it to prevent burn- 
ing the hands), and dip the corked end into the hot sealing-wax; 
proceed in this manner with each bottle, dipping each a second 
time into the wax so that they may be perfectly secure. If coi'ks 
seem too small, throw them in l)oiling Avater ; if too large, pound 
the sides with a hammer. The tiirhter thev fit in the bottles the 
better for the pickles. Glass cans, the tops or covers of which have 
become defective, can ])e used by supplying them with corks. 
Pickles thus ])()ttled are far more wholesome than, and are really 
superior to, the best brand of imported pickles, and, by having 
materials in readiness, prepared as directed, the process is neither 
difficult nor tedious. It requires tv\o persons to successfully bot- 
tle pickles. — Mrs. Florence W. Hush, Minneapolis. 

Chow^ Chow^ P1CKLE8. 
Let two hundred small cucumbers stand in salt and water closely 
covered for three days. Boil fi)r fifteen minutes in half a gallon 
best cider vinegar, one ounce white mustard seed, one of black 
mustard seed, one of juniper berries, one of celery seed (tying each 
ounce separately in swiss bags), one handful small green peppers, 
two pounds sugar, a few^ small onions, and a piece alum half the 
size of a nutmeg ; pour the vinegar while hot over the cucumbers, 
let stand a day, repeating the operation three or four mornings. 
Mix one-fourth pound mustard with the vinegar, pour over cucum- 
bers, and seal up in bottles. — Mrs. Ada E-<teUe Bever. 

Chow Chow. 

One peck of green tomatoes, half peck string beans, quarter peck 
small white onions, quarter pint green and red peppers mixed, two 
large heads cabbage, four table-spoons white nuistard seed, two of 
white or black cloves, two of celery seed, two of allspice, one small 
box yellow mustard, pound brown sugar, one ounce of turmeric ; slice 
the tomatoes and let stand over night in brine that will bear an 
egg; then squeeze out brine, chop cabbage, onions and beans, chop 
17 



258 



PICKLES. 



tomatoes separately, mix with the spices, put all in porcelain kettle^ 
cover with vinegar, and boil three hours. — Miss Lou Broivne, WasJh 
ington City. 

Cauliflower Pickles. 

Choose such as are fine and of full size, cut away all the leaves, 
and pull away the flowers by bunches; soak in brine that will float 
an egg for two days, drain, put in bottles with whole black pepper, 
allspice, and stick cinnamon ; boil vinegar, and with it mix mustard 
smoothly, a little at a time and just thick enough to run into the 
jars, pour over the cold cauliflower and seal while hot. An equal 
quantity or less of small white onions, prepared as directed in recipe 
for onion pickles, may be added before the vinegar is poured over. 
— Mrs. Col. W. I\ Eeid, Delaivare. 

Celery Pickles. 

Put together in a porcelain-lined kettle two quarts chopped white 
cabbage, two quarts chopped celery, three quarts vinegar, half ounce 
each of crushed white ginger root and turmeric, fourth pound white 
mustard seed, two table-spoons salt, five of sugar; cook slowly sev- 
eral hours until cabbage and celery are tender. 

Cucumber Pickles. 

Cover the bottom of cask with common salt ; gather the cucum- 
bers every other day, early in the morning or late in the evening, 
as it does not injure the vines so much then as in the heat of the 
day ; cut the cucumbers with a short piece of the stem on, carefully 
laying them in a basket or pail so as not to bruise ; pour cold water 
over and rinse, being careful not to rub off* the little black briers, or 
in any way to bruise them, as that is the secret of keeping tliem 
perfectly sound and good for any length of time. Lay them in a 
cask three or four inches deep, cover with salt, and repeat the 
operation until all are in ; pour in some water with the first layer — 
after this the salt will make sufficient brine. Xow spread a cloth 
over them, then a board with a stone on it. When a new supply 
of cucumbers is to be added, remove stone, board and cloth, wash 
them very clean, and wipe every particle of scum from the top of 
the pickles and the sides of the cask; throw away any soft ones, 
as they will spoil the rest; now put in the fresh cucumbers, layer 
by layer, with salt to cover each layer. When cask is nearly full, 



PICKLES, 



259 



cover with salt, tuck cloth closely around the edges, placing the 
board and weight on top ; cover cask closely, and the pickles will be 
perfect for two or three years. Cucumbers must always be put in 
the salt as soon as picked from the vines, for if they lie a day or 
two they will not keep. Do not be alarmed at the heavy scum 
that rises on them, but be careful to wash all off the board and 
cloth. When wanted for pickling, take oti' weight and board, care- 
fully lift cloth with scum on it, wash stone, board and cloth clean, 
and wipe all scum off the cucumbers and sides of cask, take out 
as many as are wanted, return the cloth, board and weight, ancl 
cover closely. Place the cucumbers in a vessel large enough to 
hold two or three times as much water as there are pickles, cover 
with cold water (some use hot), change the water each day for three 
days, place the porcelain kettle on the fire, fill half full of vine- 
gar (if vinegar is very strong add half water), fill nearly full of 
cucumbers, the largest first and then the smaller ones, put in a 
lump of alum the size of a nutmeg, let come to a boil, stirring with 
a wire or wooden spoon so as not to cut the cucumbers ; after boil- 
ing one minute, take out, place in a stone jar, and continue until 
all are scalded, then pour over them cold vinegar. In two or three 
days, if the pickles are too salt, turn off the vinegar and put on 
fresh, add a pint of brown sugar to each two gallons pickles, a pod 
or two of red pepper, a very few cloves, and some pieces of horse- 
radish. The horse-radish prevents a white scum from rising. 

Chopped Pickles. 

Take a peck green tomatoes, wash clean, cut away a small piece 
from each end, slice nnd place in a large wooden bowl, chop fine, 
place in a crock and mix salt with them (half pint to a peck), let 
stand twenty-four hours, and drain thoroughly ; take twice or three 
times as much cabbage as there is chopped tomatoes, chop fine, 
mix salt in same proportions, add enough water to make moist, and 
let stand same time as tomatoes; drain, place again in separate 
jars, cover each with cold weak vinegar ; after twenty-four hours 
drain well, pressing hard to extract all the juice ; mix tomatoes and 
cabbage together, take a double handful at a time, squeeze as tightly 
as possible, and place in a dry crock ; take the stone jar in which 



260 



PICKLES. 



they are to be pickled, place in it a layer of tomatoes and cab- 
bage, scatter over with chopped peppers, whole mustard seed, and 
horse-radish, then another layer of tomatoes and ca])bage, next spice, 
and so on until jar is almost full, occasionally sprinkling with cay- 
enne pepper; cover with strong cider vinegar, to each gallon of 
whicli a tea-cup of sugar has been added. Place a saucer or pieces 
of broken ciiina on the pickles to keep them under the vinegar. If 
a white scum rises, drain off vinegar, boil, skim, and pour hot over 
the pickles. Prepare mustard, peppers, and horse-radish, as follows: 
Take three green or ripe garden peppers (four tal)le-spoons when 
chopped), cut in two, place in salt water over night, the next morn- 
ing drain and chop quite fine ; to tw^o table-spoons mustard-seed add 
^alt-spoon salt, pour in boiling water, let stand fifteen minutes and 
drain ; two t:il)le-spooris horse-radish chopped fine. Tomatoes and 
onions are excellent prepared in the same w^ay. For sliced pickles, 
take cucumbers and onions, or tomatoes and onions, and slice and 
prepare as above. — Mrs. W. W. W. 

Mangoes. 

Select green or half grown muskmelons ; remove a piece the 
length of the melon, an inch and a half wdde in the middle and 
tapering to a point at each end ; take out seeds with a tea-spoon, 
secure one end of each piece to its own melon by a stitch made w^ith 
a needle and white thread. Make a brine of salt and cold water 
strong enough to float an egg, pour it over them, and after twenty- 
four hours take them out. For filling, use chopped tomatoes, and 
chopped cabbage prepared as in "Chopped Pickles," small cucum- 
bers, small white onions, and nasturtium pods, each prepared by 
remaining in salt water in separate jars twenty-four hours; add also 
green beans boiled in salt water until tender. For spice, use cin- 
namon-bark, whole cloves, chopped horse-radish, cayenne pepper, 
mustard seed, the latter prepared as directed in " Chopped Pickles." 
Prepare three or four times as much cabbage and tomatoes as of 
other articles, as any part left over may be placed in jar with vin- 
egar poured over, and is ready for the table. Use one, or, if small, 
two cucumbers, two or three onions, and the same quantity of bean 
and nasturtium pods, placing them in mango first, with two or three 



PICKLES. 



261 



cloves, three or four sticks of cinnaiiioii an inch long, and half a 
tea-spoon horse-radish, and filling up afterward with the chopped 
cabbage or tomatoes (mixing, or using them separately in alternate 
melons) pressing down very firmly, so that the mango is filled tight, 
sprinkling on the cayenne pepper last. Sew in the piece all around 
in its proper place with strong white thread ; when all are thus 
prepared, place in a stone crock, cover with weak cider-vinegar, let 
remain over night ; in the morning })lace the mangoes, and the 
vinegar in which they were soaked, in a porcelain kettle, boil half 
an hour, place in a jar, cover with good strong cider vinegar, let 
stand all night ; in the morning drain ofi* vinegar and boil it, add- 
ing one pint of sugar to each gallon, and pour boiling hot over the 
mangoes ; drain ofi* and boil the vinegar three or four times, and 
they are done. This is not the usual way of preparing mangoes, 
but it is much the best. To pickle nasturtiums, soak as collected in 
salt and water for twenty -four hours, drain, and put into cold vin- 
egar ; when all the seed is thus prepared, drain, and cover with 
fresh boiling-hot vinegar. 

Peach Mangoes. 

Take unpared, fine, large peaches (free-stones) ; w^ith a knife 
extract the stone from the side, place in jar, pour over them boiling 
water salted to taste, let stand twenty-four hours; drop into fresh 
cold water and allow to remain ten or fifteen minutes ; wipe very 
dry, fill each cavity with grated horse-radish and white mustard- 
seed (prepared as directed in recipe for Chopped Pickles), a small 
piece of ginger-root, and one or tw^o cloves ; sew^ up, and place 
in a stone jar as close together as possible. Make a syrup in pro- 
portion of one pint sugar to three pints vinegar; pour, boiling hot, 
over them. They will be ready for use in a week, and are very 
fine. 

French Pickles. 
One peck green tomatoes sliced, six large onions sliced ; mix 
these and throw over them one tea-cup of salt, and let them stand 
over night ; next day drain thoroughly and boil in one quart vine- 
gar mixed with tw^o quarts of w^ater, for fifteen or twenty minutes. 
Then take four quarts vinegar, two pounds brown sugar, half 
pound white mustard-seed, two table-spoons ground allspice, and the 



262 



PICKLES. 



same of cinnamon, cloves, ginger, and ground mustard; throw all 
together and boil fifteen minutes.— ifrs. Fresident R. B. Hayes, Wash- 
ington, D. C. 

Pickled Onions. 
Select small silver-skinned onions, remove with a knife all the 
outer-skiiis, so that each onion will be perfectly white and clean. 
Put theiu into brine that will float an egg for three days, drain, 
place in jar, first a layer of onions three inches deep, then a sprink- 
hng of horse-radish, cinnamon bark, cloves, and a little cayenne 
pepper; repeat until jar is filled, in proportion of half a tea-spoon 
cayenne pei)per, two tea-spoons each chopped horse-radish and cloves, 
and four tal)le-spoons cinnamon bark, to a gallon of pickles ; bring 
vinegar to boihng point ; add brown sugar in the proportion of a 
quart to a gallon, and pour hot over the onions. — Estelle Woods 
Wilcox. 

Piccalilli. 

One large white cabbage, fifty small cucumbers, five quarts small 
string-beans, eight small carrots, one dozen sticks celery, five red 
peppers, three green peppers, two heads cauliflower; chop fine, 
soak over night in salt and water, wash well, drain thoroughly, and 
pour over them hot vinegar spiced with mace, cinnamon and all- 
spice; turn oflT vinegar and scald until safe to leave like common 
pickles ; or seal in can while hot. — Mrs. W. L. 

Pyfer Pickles. 
Salt pickles down dry for ten days, soak in fresh water one day ; 
pour off water, place in porcelain kettle, cover with water and vin- 
egar, and add a tea-spoon pulverized alum (to each gallon) ; set 
over niglit on a stove which had fire in during the day; wash and 
put in a jar with cloves, allspice, peppei:, ho^se-radish and ouidns or 
gi^rlic ; ])oil fresh vinegar and pour over all ; in two weeks they will 
be ready for u<e. These pickles are always fresh and crisp, and are 
made with much less trouble than in the old-fashioned way by 
keeping in brine. — Mrs. E. M. R. 

Pickled Peppers. 
Take large green ones (the best variety is the sweet pepper), 
make a small incision at the side, take out all the seeds, being care- 
ful not to mangle the peppers; soak in brine that will float an egg 



PICKLES. 



263 



for two days, changing water twice ; stuff with chopped cabbage, or 
tomatoes seasoned with spice as for mangoes (omitting the cayenne 
pepper), or a mixture of nasturtiums, chopped onions, red cabbage, 
grapes, and cucumbers, seasoned with mustard-seed and a Kttle 
mace. Sew up incision, place in jar, and cover w^ith cold-spiced 
vinegar. 

Spanish Pickles. 

One dozen cucumbers, four heads of cabbage, one peck green 
tomatoes, one dozen onions, three ounces white mustard-seed, one 
ounce celery seed, one ounce turmeric, one box Coleman's mustard, 
two and a half pounds brown sugar. Let the cucumbers stand in 
brine that will float an egg three days ; slice the onions, and chop 
cabbage and tomatoes, the day before making, and sprinkle with 
salt in the proportion of half pint to a peck. When ready to make, 
squeeze brine out of cucumbers, wipe them off, peel and cut them in 
slices, let all simmer slowly in a kettle together for half an hour, 
and then bottle. — Mrs. J, W. Grvhhs, Eichmoiid, Ind. 

Ripe Tomato Pickles. 
Pare ripe, sound tomatoes (do not scald), put in a jar; scald 
spices (tied in a bag) in vinegar, and pour while hot over them. 
This recipe is best for persons who prefer raw tomatoes.— -Mrs. Lends 
Brown. 

Variety Pickles. 
One peck each of green tomatoes and cucumbers, and one quart 
onions ; pare, slice and salt (using a rounded half pint for all) each 
in separate jars, letting them stand in the salt twenty-four hours, 
and drain well; sprinkle fresh green radish-pods and nasturtium 
seeds with salt, and let stand for the same length of time ; boil in 
water salted to taste two quarts of half-grown, very tender bean 
pods, until they can be pierced with a silver fork, take out and 
drain. Now place each in a separate jar, cover with cold, weak 
vinegar for twenty-four hours, drain well, pressing hard to get out 
all the juice, and then mix all well together. In a stone jar place 
first a layer of the mixture, sprinkle with mustard-seed (prepared 
as directed in recipe for Chopped Pickles)," horse-radish chopped 
fine, cinnamon bark, rings of garden peppers, and a few cloves, then 



264 



PICKLES. 



another layer of the mixture, then the spice with a h'ght sprink- 
ling of cayenne pepper. The spices used for this amount are 
nine table-spoons stick cinnamon, four and a half tea-spoons each 
of mustard-seed, cloves, and horse-radish, and twenty-seven rings 
of garden peppers. Cover with good cider vinegar, let stand 
over night, drain off vinegar, and boil in a porcelain kettle, add- 
ing brown sugar in the proportion of one pint to a gallon of vin- 
egar; skim well, pour hot over the pickles, continue to drain off 
and boil for several days. If not sweet enough, add more sugar, 
although these are not intended for sweet pickles. The proportion 
of cucumbers may be double or even three times the quantity of 
tomatoes if desired.— ITrs. W, W. Woods. 

Virginia Mixed Pickle. 
One-half peck green tomatoes, twenty -five medium-sized cucum- 
bers, fifteen large white onions, one-half peck small onions, four 
heads cabbages, one pint grated horse-radish, one-half pound white 
mustard-seed, one-fourth pound ground mustard, one-half tea-cup 
ground black pepper, one-half pint salad oil, one ounce celery seed, 
one-half ounce ground cinnamon, two ounces turmeric. Slice the 
tomatoes and large onions, cut cabbage as for slaw, quarter cucum- 
bers lengthwise, cut in pieces two inches long, leaving the peel on, 
and add the small onions whole. Mix with salt thoroughly, let 
stand twenty-four hours ; drain off the juice, and pour vinegar and 
water over pickles. Let stand a day or two, strain again as dry as 
pc>ssible ; mix the spices well except the ground mustard, then boil 
one and one-half gallons fresh apple vinegar and pour boiling hot 
over the pickles; do this three mornings in succession, using the 
same vinegar each time. The third time add one pound of sugar to 
the vinegar and boil, pouring over as above; also mix the oil and 
ground mustard together with a small portion of the vinegar, and 
add when cold. Oil can be omitted if not relished. -Mrs. M. B. 
Sperry, Nashville, Teim. 

Pickled Walnuts. 
Gather walnuts (or butternuts) when soft enough to be pierced 
by a needle (July), prick each with a large needle well through, 
holding in a cloth to avoid staining the hands, cover with strong 
salt water (a pint and a half salt to a gallon of water), let stand two 



SWEET PICKLES. 



265 



or three days, changing the brine every day ; then pour over them 
a brine made by dissolving salt in boiling water (let it get cold be- 
fore using), let stand three days, renew the brine and let it stand 
for three days more. Now drain and expose to the sun for two or 
three days or until they become black, or put in cold water for half 
a day, and pack in jars not quite fulL The proportions are a hun- 
dred walnuts to each gallon of vinegar. Boil vinegar eight min- 
utes, with a tea-cup sugar, three dozen each whole cloves and allspice, 
a dozen and a half pepper-corns, and a dozen blades of mace. Pour 
the vinegar over the walnuts scalding hot. In three days draw 
off the vinegar, boil and pour over the walnuts again while hot, and 
at end of three days repeat the process. They wdll be fit to eat in 
a month, and will keep for years. — 3//^>^^ C. T. Carson, 



SWEET PICKLES. 



Sweet pickles maybe made of any fruit that can be preserved, 
including the rinds of ripe melons and cucumbers. The proportion 
of sugar to vinegar for syrup is three pints to a quart. Sweet pick- 
les may be made of any preserve by boiling over the syrup and 
adding spices and vinegar. Examine frequently, and re-scald the 
syrup if there are signs of fermentation. Plums and other smooth- 
skinned fruits should be w ell pricked before cooking. The principal 
spices for sw^et pickles are cinnamon and cloves. Use coffee C,'* 
best brown, or good stirred maple sugar. 

Sweet Pickled Beets. 
Boil them in a porcelain kettle till they can be pierced with a 
silver fork ; w^hen cool cut lengthwise to size of a medium cucum- 
ber ; boil equal parts vinegar and sugar with half a table-spoon 
ground cloves tied in a cloth to each gallon ; pour boiling hot over 
the beets. — 3frs. Smmiel Woods, Milford Center, Ohio. 

Pickled Cucumbers. 
Prepare and quarter ripe cucumbers, take out seeds, clean, lay 
in brine that Avill float an egg nine days, stirring every day, take 



266 



SWEET PICKLES. 



out and put in clear water one day, lay in alum-water (a lump of 
alum size of a medium hulled hickory-nut to a gallon of water) 
over night, make syrup of a pint good cider vinegar, 2)ound brown 
sugar, two table-spoons each broken cinnamon bark, mace, and 
pepper grains; make syrup (three pints of sugar to a quart of vin- 
egar) enough to cover the slices, lay them in, and cook till tender. 
— Mrs. M. L. France. 

Currant Pickles. 
Scald seven pounds ripe currants in three pounds sugar and one 
quart vinegar, remove currants to jar, boil for a few moments and 
pour over the fruit. Some add three pounds of raisins and spices. 
If not sweet enough, use only one pint vinegar. 

Pickled Grapes. 
Fill a jar with alternate layers of sugar and bunches of nice 
grapes just ripe and freshly gathered ; fill one-third full of good 
cold vinegar, and cover tightly. — Mrs. C. T Ccirson. 

Spiced Grapes. 
Five pounds grapes, three of sugar, two tea-spoons cinnamon and 
allspice, half tea-spoon cloves ; pulp grapes, boil skins until tender, 
cook pulps and strain through a sieve, add it to the skins, put in 
sugar, spices and vinegar to tiiste ; boil thoroughly and cool. — Miss 
Mae Stokes, Milford Center. 

Spiced Gooseberries. 
Leave the stem and blossom on ripe gooseberries, wash clean ; 
make a syrup of three pints sugar to one of vinegar, skim, if neces- 
sary, add berries and boil down till thick, adding more sugar if 
needed ; when almost done, spice with cinnamon and cloves ; boil 
as thick as apple butter. 

Spiced Nutmeg jMelon. 
Select melons not quite ripe, open, scrape out the pulp, peel, and 
slice; put the fruit in a stone jar, and, for five pounds fruit, take a 
quart vinegar, and two and a half pounds sugar ; scald vinegar and 
sugar together, and pour over the fruit ; scald the syrup and pour 
over the fruit each day for eight successive days. On the ninth, 
add one ounce stick-cinnamon, one of whole cloves, and one of all- 



SWEET PICKLES. 



267 



spice. Scald fruit, vinegar and spices together, and seal up in jars. 
This pickle should stand two or three months before using. Blue 
plums are delicious prepared in this way. — Mrs. Gen. Noyes. 

Peach Pickles. 
Pare freestone peaches, place in a stone jar, and pour over them 
boiling-hot syrup made in the proportion of one quart best cider 
vinegar to three pints sugar; boil and skim, and pour over the 
fruit boiling hot, repeating each day until the fruit is the same 
color to the center, and the syrup like thin molasses. A few days 
before they are finished, place the fruit, aftei- draining, in the jar to 
the depth of three or four inches, then sprinkle over bits of cinna- 
mon bark and a few cloves, add another layer of fruit, then spice, 
and so on until the jar is full; scald the syrup each morning for 
three or four days after putting in the spice, and pour syrup boiling 
hot over fruit, and, if it is not sufficiently cooked, scald fruit with 
the syrup the last time. The proportion of spices to a gallon of 
fruit is, two tea-spoons whole cloves, four table-spoons cinnamon. 
To pickle clingstones, prepare syrup as for freestones ; pare fruit, 
put in the syrup, boil until they can be pierced through with a 
silver fork ; skim out, place in jar, pour the boihng syrup over 
them, and proceed and finish as above. As clings are apt to be- 
come hard when stewed in sweet syrup, it may often be necessary 
to add a pint of water the first time they are cooked, watching 
carefully until they are tend2r, or to u>e only phvi of the sugar at 
first, adding the rest in a v'ay or two. Use the large White Heath 
clingstones if they are to be h^d. All that is necessary to keep 
sweet pickles is to have syrup eaoi7g:i tc co^:er, and to keep the 
fruit well under. Scald with boiling syrup until fruit is cf same 
color throughout, and syrup like thin molasses; watch e>:ery week, 
particularly if weather is warm, ar.d ".f set- n -ises and syrup assumes 
a whitish appearance, boil, skim, and pour over the fruit. If at 
any time syrup is lacking, prepare more as at first. — Mrr<. M. J. Woods. 

Pear Pickles. 

Prepare syrup as for peaches, pare and cut fruit in halves, or 
quarters if very large, and if small leave whole, put syrup in porce- 
lain kettle, and when it boils put in fruit, cook until a silver fork 



268 



SWEET PICKLES. 



will easily pierce them ; skim out fruit first and place in jar, and 
last pour over syrup boiling hot; spice like peach pickles, draining 
them each day, boiling and skimming the syrup, and pouring it 
boiling hot over the fruit until fully done. By cooking pears so 
much longer at first they do not need to be boiled so frequently, 
but they must be watched carefully until finished, and if perfectly 
done, will keep two or more years. Apple pickles may be made in 
the same way, taking care to select such as will not lose shape in 
boiling. 

EucHERED Plums. 
Nine pounds blue plums, six pounds sugar, two quarts vinegar, 
one ounce cinnamon; boil vinegar, sugar and spice together, pour 
over plums, draw off next morning and boil, pour back on plums, 
repeat the boiling five mornings, the last time boiling the fruit 
about twenty minutes. — 3frs. Capt. W. B. Broivn, Washingto7i City, 

Pickled Ralsins. 
Leave two pounds raisins on stem, add one pint vinegar and 
half pound sugar ; simmer over a slow fire half an hour. — Mrs, 
fl. C. H. 

Steawberry Pickles. 

Place strawberries in bottom of jar, add a layer of cinnamon and 
cloves, then berries, and so on ; pour over it a syrup made of two 
coffee-cups cider vinegar, ?:id three pints sugar, boiled about five 
minutes; let stand tv/ency-four hours, pour off syrtip, boil, pour 
over berriG^5, and let stand as before, then boil berries and syrup 
slowly for twenty-nv'e mina:cs; put in jars and cover. The above 
is for six quarts of berries. Pine apples ca:"> be made in same way, 
allowing s^x ai^d a half pounds of frui^ to above proportions. — Mrs, 
T. W. Jones, acnedon, C. 

Green Tomato Pickle. 
Take eight potmds of green tomatoes and chop fine, add four 
pounds brown sugar and boil down three hours, add a quart of 
vinegar, a teaspoon each of mace, cinnamon and cloves, and boil 
about fifteen minutes ; let cool and put into jars or other vessels. 
Try this recipe once and you will try it again. — Mrs. W. A. Croffut, 
New York City, 



SWEET PICKLES. 



269 



EiPE Tomato Pickle. 
Pare and weigh ripe tomatoes and put into jars and just cover 
with vinegar; after standing three days pour off the vinegar and 
add five pounds coffee sugar to every seven of fruit ; spice to taste 
and pour over tomatoes and cook slowly all day on the back of the 
stove. Use cinnamon, mace and a little doves, or not any, as pre- 
ferred. 

Watermelon Pickle. 
Pare ofi* very carefully the green part of the rind of a good, ripe 
watermelon, trim off the red core, cut in pieces one or two inches 
in length, place in a porcelain-lined kettle, in the proportion of one 
gallon rinds to two heaping tea-spoons common salt and water to 
nearly cover, boil until tender enough to pierce with a silver fork, 
pour into a colander to drain, and dry by taking a few pieces at a 
time in the hand, and pressing gently with a crash towel. Make 
svrup, and treat rinds exactly as directed for pickled peaches. Con- 
tinue adding rinds, as melons are used at table, preparing them 
first by cooking in salt water as above ; when as many are prepared 
as are Avanted, and they are nearly pickled, drain and finish as 
directed in peach pickles, except when the syrup is boiled the last 
time, put in melons and boil fifteen minutes; set jar near stove, 
skim out melons and put in jar a few at a time, heating gradually 
so as not to break it, then pour in syrup boiling hot. A rind nearly 
an inch thick, crisp and tender, is best, although any may be used. 
If scum rises, and the syrup assumes a whitish appearance, drain, 
boil and skim syrup, add melons, and boil until syrup is like thin 
molasses. 

Clover Vinegar. 
Put a large bowl of molasses in a crock, and pour over it nine 
bowls of boiling rain-water ; let stand until milk- warm, put in two 
quarts of clover blossoms, and two cups of baker's yeast ; let this 
stand two weeks, and strain through a towel. Nothing will mold 
in it.— Mrs. McAliMer, Goshen, hid. 

Mint Vinegar. 
Put into a wide-mouthed bottle enough fresh, clean peppermint, 
spearmint, or garden parsley leaves to fill it loosely ; fill up with 



270 



SWEET PICKLES, 



good vinegar, stop closely, leave on for two or three weeks, pour 
off into another bottle, and keep well corked for use. This'is ex- 
cellent for cold meats, soups and bread-dressings for roasts ; when 
mints can not be obtained, celery seed is used in the same way - 
Mrs. B. A. Fay. 

Spiced Vinegar. 
Put three pounds sugar in a three gallon jar with a smaU mouth; 
mix two ounces each of mace, cloves, pepper, allspice, turmeric,' 
celery seed, white ginger in small bits, and ground mustard; put in 
six small bags made of thin but strong muslin, lay in jar, fill with 
best cider vinegar, and use it in making pickles and sauces. 



POULTRY. 



Do not feed poultry for twenty-four hours before killing ; catch 
them without frightening or bruising, tie the feet together, hang up 
on a horizontal pole, tie the wings together over the back with a 
strip of soft cotton cloth ; let them hang five minutes, then cut the 
throat or cut off the head with a very sharp knife, and allow them 
to hang until the blood has ceased to drip. The thorough bleeding 
renders the meat more white and wholesome. Scald well by dip- 
ping in and out of a pail or tub of boiling w^ater, being careful 
not to scald so much as to set the feathers and make them more 
difficult to pluck; place the fowl on a board with head towards you, 
pull the feathers away from you, which will be in the direction 
they naturally lie (if pulled in a contrary direction the skin is 
likely to be torn), be careful to remove all the pin-feathers with a 
knife or pair of tweezers ; singe, but not smoke, over blazing paper, 
place on a meat-board, and with a sharp knife cut off the legs a 
little below the knee, to prevent the muscles from shrinking away 
from the joint, and remove the oil-bag above the tail ; take out the 
crop, either by making a slit at the back of the neck or in front (the 
last is better), taking care that every thing pertaining to the crop 
or windpipe is removed, cut the neck-bone off close to the body, 
leaving the skin a good length if to be stuffed ; cut around the vent, 
cut a slit three inches long from the tail upward^s being careful to 
cut only through the skin, put in the finger at the breast and detach 
all the intestines, taking care not to burst the gall-bag (situated 
near the upper part of the breast-bone, and attached to the liver; 
if broken, no washing can remove the bitter taint left on every 
spot it touches); put in the hand at the incision near the tail 

(271) 



272 



POULTRY. 



and draw out carefully all intestines ; trim off the fat from the 
breast and at tlie lower incision ; split the gizzard and take 
out the inside and inner lining (throw liver, heart, and gizzard 
into water, Avash well, and lay aside to be cooked and used 
for the gravy ) ; wash the fowl tlioroughly in cold water twice, 
(some wipe carefully with a wet cloth, and afterwards with a dry 
cloth to make perfectly clean, instead of washing), hang up to drain, 
and it ready to be stuffed, skewered, and placed to roast. To 
make it look plump, before stufhng, flatten the breast-bone by 
placing several thicknesses of cloth over it and pounding it, being 
careful not to break the skin, and rul) the inside well with salt and 
pepper. StuflT the breast first, but not too full or it will burst in 
cooking ; stufl^ the body rather fuller than the breast, sew up both 
openings with strong thread, and sew the skin of the neck over 
upon the back oi- down upon the breast (these threads must be care- 
fully removed before sending to the table). Lay the points of the 
wings under the back, and fasten in that position with a skewer run 
through both wings and held in place with a twine ; press the legs 
as closely towards the breast and side-bones as possible, and fasten 
with a skewer run through the body and both thighs, push a short 
skewer through above the tail, and tie the ends of legs down with a 
twine close upon the skewer (or, if skewers are not used, tie well 
in shape with twine); rub over thoroughly with salt and pepper, 
then lard, hi the following manner: Hold the breast over a clear 
fire f )r a minute or dip it in boiling water. To make the flesh firm, 
cut strips of firm fat bacon, two inches long, and an eighth of an 
inch wide, and make four parallel marks on the breast, put one of 
these strips of bacon-fat (called lardoons) securely into the split end 
of small larding-needle, and insert it at the first mark, bringing it 
out at the second, leaving an equal length of fat protruding at each 
end ; continue inserting these strips, at intervals of half an inch 
down these two lines, and then do the same with the two others. For 
poultry use a small larding-needle ; the large ones are used for 
larding beef or veal. The process is very simple, and any one who 
likes to bring out dainty dishes, will be more than repaid for the 
little trouble in learning how. All white-fleshed birds are improved 
by larding (as well as veal and sweet-bread). Small birds, such as 



POULTRY. 



273 



quails, may be more conveniently "barded" by placing a *'barde," 
a slice of fat bacon, over the breast, and the same plan may be 
adopted in all cases where larding is inconvenient ; or fat from the 
fowl itself may be used instead of bacon. When the flavor of bacon 
is disliked, put a table-spoon of butter in bits over the breast; never 
dredge with flour in the beginning. Now place to roast in an 
oven rather hot at first, and then graduate the heat to moderate 
until done, to test which insert a fork between the thigh and body; 
if the juice is watery and not bloody it is done. If not served at 
once, the fowl may be kept hot without drying up, by placing over 
a skillet full of boiling water (set on top of stove or range) and 
inverting a dripping-pan over it. Many persons roast fowls upon a 
ivire rack or trivet placed inside the dripping-pan, or patty pans 
or muflin-rings may be used as rests. The pan should be three or 
even four inches deep, and measure at the bottom about sixteen by 
twenty inches, with sides somewhat flaring. Some put to roast in 
a dry pan, the larding or butter making sufficient drippings for 
basting; others add a very little w^ater. In roasting a turkey, 
allow twenty minutes time for every pound, and twenty minutes 
longer. Some steam turkey before roasting, and a turkey-steamer 
may be easily improvised by placing the dripping-pan containing 
the turkey on top of two or three pieces of wood (hickory or maple 
is the best) laid in the bottom of a wash-boiler, with just enough 
water to cover the wood; put on the lid, which should fit tightly 
on the boiler, and as the water boils away add more. Add the 
liquor in the dripping-pan to the turkey when placed in the oven 
to roast (do not use the water from the boiler). In boiling fowl, 
put into hot water (unless soup is wanted, when place in cold); 
skim when it boils up first, and keep it just above the boiling point, 
but it must boil gently, not violently. A little vinegar added to the 
water in which they are boiled makes fowls more tender. For fuller 
directions see Meats." Boil the giblets until tender in a sepa- 
rate dish, and add them, well chopped, together with water in 
which they were cooked, to the gravy. 

TO CUT UP A CHICKEN. 

Pick, singe, and draw; lay the chicken on a board kept for the 

purpose, cut off the feet at first joint ; cut a slit in the neck, take 
18 



274 



POULTRY, 



out the windpipe and crop, cut off the wings and legs at the joint 
which unites them to the body, separate the first joint of the leg 
from the second, cut off the oil-bag, make a slit horizontally under 
the tail, cut the end of the entrails loose, extend the slit on each 
side of the joint where the legs were cut off ; then, with the left 
hand, hold the breast of the chicken, and. with the right, bend 
back the rump until the joint in back separates, cut it clear and plac« 
in water. Take out the entrails, using a sharp knife to separate the 
eggs (if any), and all other particles to be removed, from the back, 
being careful in removing the heart and liver not to break the gall- 
bag (a small sack of a blue-green color about an inch long attached 
to the liver); separate the back and breast ; commence at the high 
point of the breast and cut downwards toward the head, taking 
off part of the breast with the wish-bone ; cut the neck from that 
part of the back to which the ribs are attached, turn the skin off 
the neck, and take out all lumps and stringy substances ; very care- 
fully remove the gall-bag from the liver, and clean the gizzard by 
making an incision through the thick part and first liniug, peeling 
off the fleshy part, leaving the inside whole and ball-shaped ; if the 
lining breaks, open the gizzards, pour out contents, peel off inner 
lining, and wash thoroughly. After washing in second water, the 
chicken is ready to be cooked. When young chickens are to be 
baked, with a sharp knife cut open the back at the side of the 
back-bone, press apart, and clean as above directed, and place in 
dripping-pan, skin side up. 

Chickens are stuffed and roasted in the same way as turkeys, 
and are much better for being first steamed, especially if over a year 
old. Roast for twenty or thirty minutes, or till nicely browned. 
Some prefer to broil or fry old chickens after first steaming until 
tender, but stewing or boiling is better. In broiling chickens the 
danger of under-cooking on the one hand, or burning on the other, 
is avoided by breaking the bones slightly with a rolling-pin so that 
the pieces are flattened. Covering with a sauce-pan will also con- 
centrate the heat, and help cook them thoroughly without burning. 

Some, in making chicken or meat pies, line the bottom of the 
dish with crust, and place in the oven until well ''set," then line 
the sides, fill, cover, and bake ; it is always difficult to bake the 



POULTRY. 



275 



crust on the bottom of dish unless this plan is adopted. A still 
better plan is to use no bottom crust, only lining the sides of the 
pan. 

The garnishes for turkey and chicken are parsley, fried oysters, 
thin slices of ham, slices of lemon, fried sausages or forced-meat 
balls. 

Baked Chickens. 
Dress the chickens and cut them in two, soak for half an hour in 
cold water, wipe perfectly dry and put in a dripping-pan, bone side 
down, without any water ; have a hot oven, and, if the chickens are 
young, half an hour's cooking will be sufficient. Take out, and sea- 
son with butter, salt and pepper ; pack one above another as closely 
as possible, and place in pan over boiling water, covering them 
closely — this keeps them moist until served — boil the giblets in a 
little water, and, after the chickens are tiiken from the dripping-pan, 
put into it the water in which giblets were boiled, thicken it, and add 
the chopped giblets. This manner of baking chickens is fully equal 
to broiling them. — Mrs, E. W. Herrkk^ Minneapolis, Minn. 

Baked Spring Chickens. 
Cut each of four chickens into seven or nine pieces, wash thor- 
oughly and quickly, and put in a colander to drain ; put a half 
table-spoon each of lard and butter into a dripping-pan, lay in the 
pieces, and add half a pint hot w^ater ; place in oven and bake half 
an hour, turn, taking care that they get only to a light brown, and, 
just before taking up, add salt and pepper to taste ; when done 
take out in a dish and keep hot. To make the gravy, add a half 
pint or moi-e of water, set the dripping-pan on the stove, and add 
one table-spoon flour mixed w^ith half cup of cream or milk, stirring 
slowly, adding a little of the mixture at a time. Let cook thor- 
oughly, stirring constantly to prevent burning, and to make the 
gravy nice and smooth ; season more if necessary. — Mrs. L. Hvsh. 

Baked Chicken with Paksnips. 
Wash, scrape, and quarter parsnips, and parboil for twenty min- 
utes ; prepare a young chicken by splitting open at back, place 
in a dripping-pan, skin side up, lay parsnips around the chicken, 
sprinkle with salt and pepper, and add a lump of butter the size 



276 



POULTRY. 



of an egg, or two or three slices of good pickled pork ; put enough 
water in pan to prevent burning, place in oven and bake until 
chicken and parsnips are done to a delicate brown ; serve chicken 
separately on a platter, pouring the gravy in the pan over the pars- 
nips. 

Chicken Croquettes. 
Boil two fowls weighing five pounds each till very tender, mince 
fine, add one pint cream, half pound butter, salt and pepper to 
taste ; shape oval in a jelly glass or mold. Fry in lard like dough- 
nuts until brown. — Mrs. E. L. Fay, New York OUy. 

Breaded Chicken. 
Cut a tender chicken into seven pieces as if for frying, roll in 
beaten yolks of two eggs, then in finely grated bread crumbs seasoned 
with chopped parsley, pepper and salt ; place in dripping-pan, dot 
the pieces wdth bits of butter (one table-spoon in all), add a little 
water, bake slowly, basting often. When done, take out chicken 
and make gravy in the pan by adding a mixture of flour and butter, 
make smooth by stirring. Add either cream or milk to make sufli- 
oient gravy, which season to taste. 

Broiled Chickens or Quails. 
Cut chicken open on the back, lay on the meat-board and pound 
until it will lie flat, lay on gridiron, place over a bed of coals, broil 
until a nice brown, but do not burn. It will take twenty or thirty 
minutes to cook thoroughly, and it will cook much better to cover 
with a pie-tin held down with a weight so that all parts of the 
chicken may lie close to the gridiron. While the chicken is broil- 
ing, put the liver, gizzard and heart in a stew-pan and boil in a 
pint of water until tender, chop fine and add flour, butter, pepper, 
salt, and stir a cup of sweet cream to the water in which they were 
boiled ; when the chicken is done, dip it in this gravy while hot, 
lay it back on the gridiron a minute, put it in the gravy and let 
boil for a half minute, and send to the table hot. Cook quails in 
the same way. — Mrs. A. S. Chapman. 

Chili Colorad. 
Take two chickens ; cut up as if to stew ; when pretty well done, 
add a little green parsley and a few onions. Take half pound large 



POULTRY. 



277 



pepper pods, remove seeds, and pour on boiling water; steam ten 
or fifteen minutes ; pour off water, and rub them in a sieve until 
all the juice is out ; add the juice to the chicken ; let it cook for 
half an hour ; add a little butter, flour and salt. Phice a border 
of rice around the dish before setting on table. This dish may also 
be made of beef, pork or mutton ; it is to be eaten in cold weather, 
and is a favorite dish with all people on the Pacific coast. — Mrs. 
Gov. Bradley, Nevada. 

Chickens for Lunch. 

SpHt a young chicken down the back, wash and wipe dry, sr ason 
with salt and pepper. Put in a dripping-pan, and place in a mod- 
erate oven ; bake three-quarters of an hour. This is much better 
for travelino: lunch than when seasoned with butter. — Mrs. W. B. 
Brown, Washington, D. C. 

CincKEN Pot-pie. 

Cnt up a chicken and put on in hot water enough to cover, and 
take care that it does not cook dry ; while boihng cut off a slice 
from bread dough, add a small lump of lard, and mix up like light 
biscuit, roll, cut out with cake-cutter and set by stove to rise ; wash 
and pare potatoes of moderate size, and add them when chicken is 
almost done; when potatoes begin to boil, season with salt and pep- 
per, add dumplings and season again. See that there is water 
enough to keep from burning, cover very tightly, and do not take 
cover off until dumplings are done. They will cook in half an 
hour, and may be tested by lifting one edge of the lid, taking out 
a dumpling and breaking it open. Or, the dumplings may be placed 
in steamer over cold water, taking care to leave some of the holes 
in steamer open, as if all are covered by the dumplings, the steam 
will not be admitted, and they will not cook well. If there are 
too many dumplings to lie on bottom without covering all holes, 
attach them to the side and upper edge of steamer by wetting 
dough and pressing it to the edge. When done remove to vegetable 
dish and pour hot gravy over them. Dish potatoes by themselves, 
and chickens and dumplings together. Make gravy by mixing two 
level table-spoons flour and a little butter together, and stir into the 
broth remaining in pot slowly, add more boiling water if needed and 
season with sidt and pepper. Or, make dumpHngs with one pint 



278 



POULTRY. 



sour milk, two well-beaten eggs, half tea-spoon soda (mixed in part 
of the flour), and flour enough to make as stifl' as can be stirred 
with a spoon; or baking-powder and sweet milk may be used. Drop 
in by spoonfuls, cover tightly, and boil as above. A pot-pie may 
be made from a good boiling piece of beef; if too much grease 
arises skim off. 

Chicken Pie. 

Cut up two young chickens, place in hot water enough to cover, 
(as it boils away add more so as to have enough for the pie and for 
gravy to serve with it), boil until tender; line the sides of a four or 
six quart pan with a rich baking-powder or soda- biscuit dough quarter 
of an inch thick, put in part of the chicken, season with salt, pepper 
and butter, lay in a few thin strips or squares of dough, add the lest 
of chicken and season as before ; some add five or six fresh eggs or a 
few new potatoes in their season, season liquor in which the chickens 
were boiled, with butter, salt and pepper, add a part of it to the pie, 
cover with crust a quarter of an inch thick, with a hole in the 
center the size of a tea-cup. Keep adding the chicken-liquor as 
needed, since the fault of most chicken pies is that they are too dry. 
There can scarcely be too much gravy. Bake one hour in a mod- 
erate oven. 

To make a gravy, add to the liquor left in pot (if not enough add 
hot water) a table-spoon of butter mixed to a paste with flour, 
and seasoned with pepper and salt. This should be stirred, a little 
at a time, into the liquor ; let boil up once and serve. 

Chicken Pie with Oysters. 
Boil the chicken— a year old is best— until tender, drain ofi* 
liquor from a quart of oysters, boil, skim, season with butter, pep^ 
per and salt, add oysters and boil up once ; to the liquor left in pot 
from chicken, wliich sliould be about a half pint, add two even 
table-spoons flour mixed smooth in part of the oyster liquor, add 
the remainder of the ovster liquor, let boil up once and remove 
from the fire ; add four table-spoons butter, half tea-spoon pepper, 
and salt to taste. Line the sides of a dish with a nice crust, put 
in a layer of cliieken, pour over it a little of the gravv, then a 
layer of oysters with crravy, and repeat until dish is filled, adding 
any part of the gravy that may remain ; now cover loosely with a 



POULTRY. 



279 



crust having an opening in the center to allow steam to escape. 
Bake forty minutes in a moderate oven. 

Chicken Pudding. 

Dress and cut one chicken into small pieces, put it into a sauce- 
pan or kettle with a little water, season with salt and pepper, let 
boil until it begins to grow tender, then take out and put into a 
three -quart pudding dish ; have ready one quart green corn grated 
or cut fine, to which add three eggs beaten light and one pint sweet 
milk ; season with salt and pepper, and pour this mixture over the 
chicken, dredge thickly with flour, lay on bits of butter and bake 
until done. — 3/rs. A. Wihon, Rye, N. Y. 

Dressing for Chicken or Beef. 

Boil potatoes, mash as if for the tabic, except that they should be 
less moist, stuff the chicken or roast with this, and bake as ordi- 
narily ; for ducks add onions chopped fine ; if the bread-dressing is 
Avanted too, it may be laid in the corner of the pan. — Mrs, Carrie 
Beck. 

Fricasseed Chicken. 
Cut up and put on to boil, skin side down, in a small quantity of 
water, season w^ith salt, pepper, and slices of an onion if liked; 
stew gently until tender, remove chicken, add a half pint cream or 
milk to gnivy, and thicken wdth butter and flour rubbed smoothly 
together (adding a little of the gravy to soften and help mix them), 
let boil two or three minutes, add a little chopped parsley and serve. 
Or, first fry the chicken brown in a little hot lard, take out chicken, 
add a table-spoon flour, and let cook a minute, stirring constantly; 
add a pint water (or stock if at hand), a little vin%ar or Worces- 
tershire sauce, season wdth salt and pepper ; w^hen it has boiled, 
remove from fire, strain, add the beaten yolk of an egg, pour over 
the chicken and serve. Or, put chicken in sauce-pan with barely 
enough water to cover, stew gently until tender; have a frying-pan 
prepared with a few slices of salt pork, drain chicken and fry with 
pork until it is a fine, rich brown ; take chicken and bits of pork 
from the pan, pour in the broth, thicken with brown flour, mixed 
smooth with a little water, and season with pepper ; now put chicken 
and pork back into gravy, let simmer a few minutes, and serve 
very hot. — Mrs, J. H. S. 



280 



POULTRY. 



Fried Spring Chicken, 

Put skillet on the stove with about half table-sp(X)n each of lard and 
butter; when hot lay in chicken, sprinkle over with flour, salt and 
pepper, place lid on skillet, and cook over a moderate fire ; w^hen 
a light brown, turn the chicken and sprinkle flour, salt and pepper 
over the top as at first, if necessary add more lard and butter, and 
cook slowly until done; make gravy just the same as for baked 
chicken. As a general rule half an hour is long enough to fry 
spring chicken. To make rich and nice gravy without cream, take 
the yolk of an egg, beat up light, strain and stir slowly into the 
gravy after the flour and milk have been stirred in and thoroughly 
cooked; as soon as it boils up the gravy is done, and should be 
removed from the stove. All gravies need to be stirred well and 
thoroughly cooked over a moderate fire. — Mrs, L. H. 

Fried Gumbo. 

Cut up two young chickens, and fry in skillet; when brown but 
not scorched, put in a pot with one quart finely chopped okra, four 
large tomatoes, and two onions chopped fine ; cover with boiling 
water, boil very slowly, and keep the kettle tightly closed; add 
boiling water as it wastes, and simmer slowly three hours ; season 
with salt, pepper, and a little butter and flour rubbed together ; 
serve with boiled rice. — Mrs. J. H. S. 

Jellied Chicken. 

Cook six chickens in a small quantity of water, until the meat 
will part from the ])one easily ; season to taste with salt and pepper; 
just as soon as cold enough to handle, remove bones and skin; 
place meat in a deep pan or mold, just as it comes from the bone, 
using gizz[ird, liver and heart, until the mold is nearly full. To 
the water left in the kettle, add three-fourths of a box of Cox's 
gelatine (some add juice of lemon), dissolved in a little warm water, 
and boil until it is reduced to a little less than a quart, pour over 
the chicken in the mold, leave to cool, cut with a very sharp knife 
and serve. The slices will not easily break up if directions are 
followed— Mrs. Prof. Roberts, Cape Girardeau, Mo. 



POULTRY. 



281 



Pickled Chicken. 
Boil four chickens till tender enough for meat to fall from bones ; 
put meat in a stone jar, and pour over it three pints of cold vine- 
gar, and a pint and half of the water in which the chicken^; were 
boiled; add spices if preferred, and it will be ready for use in two 
days. — Emma Gould Eea. 

Pressed Chicken. 
Take one or two chickens, boil in a small quantity of water with 
a little salt, and when thoroughly done, take all the meat from the 
bones, removing the skin, and keeping the light meat separate from 
the dark; chop and season to taste with salt and pepper. If a meat 
presser is at hand take it, or any other mold such as a crock or 
pan will do; put in a layer of light and a layer of dark meat till 
all is used, add the liquor it was boiled in, which should be about 
one tea-cupful, and put on a heavy weight; when cold cut in slices. 
Many chop all the meat together, add one pounded cracker to the 
liquor it was boiled in, and mix all thoroughly before putting in the 
mold ; either way is nice. Boned turkey can be prepai-ed in the 
same way, slicing instead of chopping. 

Steamed Chicken. 

Rub the chicken on the inside with pepper and half tea-spoon of 
salt, place in steamer in a kettle that will keep it as near the water 
as possible, cover, and steam an hour and a half; when done keep 
hot while dressing is prepared, then cut them up, arrange on the 
platter, and serve with the dressing over them. The dressing is 
made as follows : Boil one pint of gravy from the kettle without the 
fat, add cayenne pepper and half a tea-spoon salt ; stir six table- 
spoons of flour into a quarter pint of cream until smooth, and add 
to the gravy. Corn starch may be used instead of the flour, and 
some add nutmeg or celery salt. 

Boned Turkey. 

With a sharp knife slit the skin down the back, and raising one 
side at a time with the Angers, separate the flesh from the bones 
with knife, until the wings and legs are reached. These nnjoint 
from the body, and cutting through to the bone, turn back the 
flesh and remove the bones. When bones are removed, the flesh 



282 



POULTRY, 



may be re-shaped by stuffing. Some leave the bones in the legs and 
wings, as they are most difficult to remove. Stuff with force-meat, 
made of cold lamb or veal and a little pork, chopped fine and sea- 
soned with salt, pepper, sage or savory, and the juice of one lemon; 
sew into shape, turn ends of wings under and press the legs close to 
the back, and tie all firmly so that the upper surface may be plump 
and smooth for the carver. Lard Avith two or three rows on the 
top, and bake until thoroughly done, basting often with salt and 
water, and a little butter. This is a difficult dish to attempt. 
Carve across in slices and serve with tomato-sauce. — Mrs. J. Flem- 
ming, Philadelphia, Pa. 

Boxed Turkey. 

Bone and stuff as in preceding recipe, roll tight in a strong, clean 
cloth, tie with tape in center and near the ends, and fasten ends 
firmly with strong twine, taking care to make the roll compact and 
perfectly secure; place in a rich stock, prepared by putting the 
bones in cold water with herbs, an onion peeled and stuck with ten 
cloves, and a sliced carrot and turnip, bringing to a boil, and skim- 
ming it until clear (if not enough to cover, add more boihng water), 
and boil four or five hours, take up, remove cloth, wash it in cold 
water, and replace turkey in it as before, place it between two 
platters under a heavy weight, and let stand over night to cool; 
strain the stock in which it was boiled, in the morning remove all 
fat, and put stock over the fire ; add to it two ounces gelatine dis- 
solved in a pint of cold water, and clarify as in general directions for 

Soups." Strain through flannel until perfectly clear, pour it into 
two shallow molds, color one dark brown with caramel, and cool 
until the jelly is firm ; place turkey on a dish and garnish with the 
jelly cut in fanciful shapes ; or first place the turkey on a dish, and 
pour the jelly over it. 

Boiled Turkey. 
^yash the turkey thoroughly and rub salt through it : fill it with 
a dressing of bread and butter, moistened witli milk and seasoned 
with sage, salt and pepper, and mixed with a pint of raw oysters ; 
tie the legs and Avings close to the body, place in salted boiling 
water with the breast downward, skim often, boil about two hours, 
but not till the skin breaks ; serve with oyster-sauce. — Mrs. E. L. 
F., Neiv York City. 



POULTRY. 



283 



EoAST Turkey. 

After picking and singeing the turkey, plump it by plunging 
quickly three times into boiling water and then three times into 
cold, holding it by the legs ; place to drain and dress as in general 
directions; prepare stuffing by taking pieces, of dry bread and 
crust (not too brown) cut off a loaf of bread fully three or four 
days old (but not moldy); place crust and pieces in a pan and 
pour on a very little boihng water, cover tightly with a cloth, let 
stand until soft, add a large lump of butter, pepper, salt, one or 
two fresh eggs, and the bread from which the crust was cut, so as 
not to have it too moist. Mix well with the hands and season to 
suit taste ; rub mside of turkey with pepper and salt, stuff it as 
already directed on page 272, and sew up each slit with a strong 
thread ; tie the legs down firmly, and press the wings closely to the 
sides, securing them with a cord tied around the body (or use 
skewers if at hand), steam (page 273) from one to three hours (or 
until easily pierced with a fork) , according to the size, then place 
turkey in pan with water from dripping-pan in which the turkey 
was steamed ; lard the turkey, or place on the breast the pieces of 
fat taken from it before it was stuffed, sprinkle with salt and pep- 
per, dredge well with flour; if not sufficient water in the pan, keep 
adding boiling water and baste often, as the excellence of the 
turkey depends much on this. Cook until a nice brown and per- 
fectly tender ; remove to a hot plattei" and serve with cranberry 
sauce and giblet gravy. To make the gravy, after the turkey^ is 
dished place the dripping-pan on the top of range or stove, skim 
off most of the fat, and add water if necessary ; chop the heart, 
gizzard and hver (previously boiled for two hours in two quarts of 
water ) , and add to the gravy with the water in which they were 
boiled, season with salt and pepper, add a smooth thickening of 
flour and water, stir constantly until thoroughly mixed with the 
gravy, and boil until the flour is well cooked. Some, in making 
stuffing, try out the fat of the turkey at a low temperature, and use 
instead of butter; others use the fat of sweet-pickled pork chopped 
fine (not tried out), and a small quantity of butter, or none at all. 
~3Irs. Judge J. L. FoHer, 



284 



POULTRY, 



Roast Turkey. 

Prepare and stuff as in preceding recipe, and lard as described 
in general directions ; place in oven not quite as hot as for roast- 
ing meats (if the fire is very hot, lay a piece of brown paper, well 
greased, over the fowl, to prevent scorching) ; put a table-spoon of 
butter in bits on the- breast ; it will melt and run into the dripping- 
pan, and is used to baste the fowl as roasting progresses; baste 
often ^oiice in teii minutes), watching the turkey as it begins to 
brown, very carefully, and turning it occasionally to expose all parts 
alike to the heat ; it should be moist and tender, not in the least 
scorched, blistered or shriveled, till it is a golden brown all over. 
For the first two-thirds of the time required for cooking (the rule 
is twenty minutes to the pound and twenty minutes longer) the 
basting should keep the surface moistened so that it will not crisp 
at all; meantime the oven should be kept as close as possible. In 
basting use the door that opens to the left, so that the right hand 
may be used conveniently through a small opening; and a long 
gauntlet glove is a good thing to protect the hand and arm during 
the operation. In turning the pan, do it as quickly as possible; 
season with two tea-spoons salt when half done. In the last third 
of the time allowed for cooking, withdraw the pan partly from the 
oven (resting the end on a block of wood or a plain stool of the 
proper height kept for the purpose), and dredge the breast, upper 
portion and sides thoroughly, by sifting flour over the fowl from a 
fine sifter, return pan to oven, and let remain until the flour is weU 
browned, tiien baste freely with drippings from the pan, and flour 
again, repeating the flouring and ])rowning, and allowing the crust 
to grow crisper each time ; there will probably be time to repeat 
the process three or four times before finishing. Take care not to 
wash off the flour by basting; give it time to brown on thoroughly, 
and do not take out of oven until all tlie flour of last dredging 
is thoroughly browned. If it is necessary to turn the turkey in the 
pan, use a towel, and never stick it with a f)rk, to allow the juice 
to escape. In roasting a large turkey, a liberal allowance of but- 
ter for cooking, including gravy for serving in two successive 
days, is one tea-cupful, but less may be used, according to taste 
or necessity for economy. When done the entire surface will be a 



POULTRY. 



285 



ricli, frotliy, brown crust, which breaks off in shells in carving, 
and makes the most savory of morsels. Dish the turkey. 

To make the gravy, boil the heart, liver, gizzard and neck in two 
quarts of water for two hours, then take them up, chop gizzard, 
heart and liver, put them back again, thicken with one table-spoon 
of flour wet with cold water; season with salt and pepper ; after the 
turkey has been taken up, pour into dripping-pan, set on the top of 
the stove, and boil five minutes, stirring constantly, scraping the 
sides of the pan until free from the rich, savory particles that ad- 
here. Serve in a gravy-boat. 

Roast Turkey with Oyster Dressing. 
Dress and rub turkey thoroughly inside and out with salt and 
pepper, steam two hours or until it begins to grow tender, lifting 
the cover occasionally and sprinkling lightly with salt. Then take 
out, loosen the legs, and rub the inside again with salt and pepper, 
and stuff with a dressing prepared as follows : Take a loaf of stale 
bread, cut off crust and soften by placing in a pan, pouring on 
boiling water, draining off immediately and covering closely; 
crumble the bread fine, add half a pound melted butter, or more 
if to be very rich, and a tea-spoon each of salt and pepper, or 
enough to season rather highly; drain off liquor from a quart 
of oysters, bring to a boil, skim and pour over the bread-crumbs, 
adding the soaked crusts and one or two eggs ; mix all thoroughly 
with the hands, and if rather dry, moisten with a little sweet milk; 
lastly, add the oysters, being careful not to break them ; or first put 
in a spoonful of stufling, and then three or four oysters, and so on 
until the turkey is filled ; stuff the breast first. Flour a cloth and 
place over the openings, tying it down with a twine ; spread the 
turkey over with butter, salt and pepper, place tn a dripping-pan 
in a well-heated oven, add half a pint hot water, and roast two 
hours, basting often with a little water, butter, salt and pepper, 
kept in a tin for this purpose and placed on the back of the 
stove. A swab made of a stick with a cloth tied on the end, is 
better than a spoon to baste with. Turn until nicely browned on 
all sides, and about half an hour before it is done, baste with butter 
and dredge with a little flour -this will give it a frothy appearance. 



286 



POULTRY, 



When you dish the turkey if there is much fat in the pan, pour off 
most of it, and add the chopped giblets previously cooked until 
tender, and the water in which they wei-e cooked, now stewed down 
to about out- pint ; piace one or two heaping table-spoons flour (it is 
better to have half of it brownedj in a pint bowl, mix smooth with 
a little cream, fill up bowl with cream or rich milk and add to the 
gravy^ in the pan ; boil several minutes, stirring constantly, and 
pour into the gravy tureen ; serve with currant or apple jelly. A 
turkey steamed in this way does not look so well on the table, but 
is very tender and palatable. It is an excellent way to cook a 
large turkey. 

English Roast Turkey. 
Kill several days before cooking, prepare in the usual manner, 
stuff with bread-crumbs (not using the crusts) rubbed fine, moistened 
with butter and two eggs, seasoned with salt, pepper, parsley, sage, 
thyme or sweet marjoram ; sew up, skewer, and place to roast in a 
rack within a dripping-pan ; spread with bits of butter, turn 
and baste frequently with butter, pepper, salt and water ; a few 
minutes before it is done glaze with the white of an egg; dish 
the turkey, pour off most of the fat, add the chopped gibtets and 
the water in which they were boiled, thicken with flour and butter 
rubbed together, stir in the dripping-pan, let boil thoroughly and 
serve m a gravy-boat. Garnish with fried ovsters, and serve with 
celery-sauce and stewed gooseberries. Choose a turkey weighing 
from eight to ten pounds. If it becomes too brown, cover with 
buttered paper.— l/rs. C. T. Carson. 



SALADS. 



Vegetables used for salads are : boiled asparagus, cabbage, red 
and white; lettuce, chicory, boiled cauliflower, celery, dandelion, 
purslane, water-cress, etc. Prepare carefully by freshening in cool 
water, cleaning thoroughly of all foreign matters, drying carefully 
in a towel (avoiding as much as possible crushing the leaves, as it 
causes them to wilt), and then shredding with the fingers instead of 
cutting or chopping with a knife. Lettuce is often served with the 
leaves entire, reserving the tender inner leaves of lettuce for garnish- 
ing; cover with a ''dressing," which consists chiefly of oil, vinegar, 
salt, pepper, and mustard, mixed in various proportions. All the 
ingredients of the dressing should be the very best. 

In preparing the dressing, powder the hard boiled eggs, either in 
a mortar or by mashing with the back of a silver spoon (if raw 
eggs are used beat well and strain), add the seasoning, then the oil, 
a few drops at a time, and, lastly and gradually, the vinegar. Ai- 
wa vs use the freshest olive salad oil, not the common sweet oil ; if it 
can not be obtained, cream or melted butter is a good substitute and 
by some considered even more palatable, but when used it should be 
added la^t of all. In making chicken salad use the oil off the 
water in which the chickens were boiled. It is much nicer to pick 
the meat or cut it with a knife instead of chopping, always removing 
bits of gristle, fat and skin. The same is true oi* celery (in place 
of which celery seed may be used with white cabbage or nice head- 
lettuce, well chopped). To crisp celery, lettuce, cabbage, and all 
vegetable.^ used for salads, put in ice-water for two hours before serv- 



288 



SALADS. 



ing. Pour the dressing over the chicken and celery, mixed and 
slightly salted ; toss up lightly with a silver fork, turn on a platter, 
form into an oval mound, garnish the top with slices of cold boiled 
eggs, and around the bottom with sprigs of celery, and set away in 
a cold place until needed. Salads should be served the day they are 
prepared. Vegetable salads should be stirred as little as possible, 
in order that their freshness may be preserved until they are served. 
To fringe celery stalks for use as a garnish for salads, meats, chicken, 
etc., cut the stalks into two-inch pieces ; stick several coarse needles 
into the top of a cork ; draw half of the stalk of each piece of celery 
through the needles several times. AVhen all the fibrous parts are 
separated, lay the celery in some cold place to curl and crisp. Stir 
salads with a wooden fork or spoon. Many think turkey makes a 
nicer salad than chicken. Always make soup of the liquor in which 
turkey or chicken was boiled. 

Sidney Smith's Winter Salad. 

Two large potatoes, passed through kitchen sieje, 

Unwonted softness to the salad give ; 

Of mordant mustard add a single spoon — 

Distrust the condiment which bites too soon ; 

But deem it not, though made of herbs, a fault 

To add a double quantity of salt; 

Three times the spoon with oil of Lucca crown, 

And once with vinegar procured from town. 

True flavor needs it, and your poet begs 

The pounded yellow of two well-boiled eggs. 

Let onion atoms lurk within the bowl, 

And, half-suspected, animate the whole ; 

And lastly, on the favored compound toss 

A magic tea-spoon of anchovy sauce. 

Then, though green turtle fail, though venison 's tough, 

Though ham and turkey are not boiled enough, 

Serenely full, the epicure shall say, 

" Fate can not harm me— I have dined to dav." 

Asparagus Salad. 
After having scraped and washed asparagus, boil soft in salt 
water, drain off water, add pepper, salt and strong cider vinegar, 
and then cool. Before serving, arrange asparagus so that heads 
will all lie in center of dish ; mix the vinegar in which it was put 



SALADS. 



289 



after removing from the fire with good olive oil or melted butter, and 
pour over the asparagus. — Mrs. Leiuis Brmm. 

Bean Salad. 

String young beans, break into half-inch pieces (or leave whole), 
wash and cook soft in salt water ; drain well, add finely-chopped 
onions, pepper, salt and vinegar; when cool add olive-oil or melted 
butter. The onions may be omitted. 

Cabbage Salad. 
Two quarts finely-chopped cabbage, two level table-spoons salt, 
two of white sugar, one of black pepper, and a heaping one of 
ground mustard; rub yolks of four hard-l)oiled eggs until smooth, 
add half cup butter, slightly warmed ; mix thoroughly with the cab- 
bage, and add tea-cup good vinegar; serve with whites of the eggs 
sliced and placed on the salad. — Mrs. Col. HaivMns. 

Cabbage Salad. 
Put the milk and vinegar on to heat in separate sauce-pans ; when 
the vinegar boils, add butter, sugar, salt and pepper, and stir in the 
chopped cabbage; cover, and let scald and steam — not boil — for a 
moment, meanwhile, remove hot milk from stove, cool a little, and 
stir in the well-beaten and strained yolks; return to stove, and boil 
a moment. Dish cabbage and pour custard over it, stir rapidly with 
a silver spoon until well mixed, and set immediately in a cold place. 

Cream Slaw. 

One gallon cabbage cut very fine, pint vinegar, pint sour cream, 
half cup sugar, tea-spoon flour, two eggs, and a piece of butter the 
size of a walnut; put vinegar, sugar and butter in a sauce-pan and 
let boil; stir eggs, cream and flour, previously well mixed, into the 
vinegar, boil thoroughly and throw over the cabbage previously 
sprinkled with one table-spoon salt, one of black pepper and one of 
mustard. — Mrs. Dr. Skinner, Sovierset, Ohio. 

Plain Cold Slaw. 
Slice cabbage very fine, season with salt, pepper, and a little 
sugar; pour over vinegar and mix thoroughly. It is nice served in 
the center of a platter with fried oysters around it. 
19 



290 



SALADS. 



Chicken Salad. 
Chop fine one chicken cooked tender, one head cabbage, and five 
cold hard-boiled eggs ; season with salt, pepper and mustard to 
taste ; warm one pint vinegar, add half a tea-cup butter, stir until 
melted, pour hot over the mixture, stir thoroughly, and set aw^ay to 
cool. — Mrs. G. S. Ogden. 

Chicken Salad. 
Boil three chickens until tender, salting to taste ; when cold cut 
in small pieces and add twice the quantity of celery cut up with a 
knife but not chopped, and four cold-boiled eggs sliced and thor- 
oughly mixed through the other ingredients. For dressing, put on 
stove a sauce-pan with one pint vinegar and butter size of an egg; 
beat two or three eggs with two table-spoons mustard, one of black 
pepper, two of sugar, and a tea-spoon salt, and when thoroughly 
beaten together pour slowly into the vinegar until it thickens. Be 
careful not to cook too long or the egg will curdle. Remove, and 
when cold pour over salad. This may be prepared the day before, 
adding the dressing just before using. Add lemon juice to improve 
the flavor, and garnish the top with slices of lemon. — Mrs. C. E. 
Skinner, Battle Creek, Mich. 

Chicken Salad. 
Boil one chicken tender ; chop moderately fine the whites of 

twelve hard-boiled eggs and the chicken ; add equal quantities of 
chopped celery and cabbage ; mash the yolks fine, add two table- 
spoons butter, two of sugar, one tea-spoon mustard ; pepper and 
salt to taste ; and lastly, one half-cup good cider vinegar ; pour 
over the salad, and mix thoroughly. If no celery is at hand, use 
chopped pickled cucumbers or lettuce and celery seed. This may 
be mixed two or three days before using. — Mrs. Judge Lam-ence, 
Bellefontaine. 

Chicken Salad. 
Four chickens ; two bunches of celery to each chicken ; one pint 
vinegar, two eggs, two table-spoons salad oil, two of liquid mustard, 
one of sugar, one of salt, one salt-spoon red pepper ; make a cus- 
tard of eggs and vinegar ; beat oil, mustard, and red pepper to- 
gether ; stir into custard ; add celery just before using. The above 
is sufiicient for twenty persons. — Mrs. J. W. G., Richmond, In- 
diana. 



SALADS. 



Cucumber Salad. 
Peel and slice cucumbers ; mix with salt, and let stand half an 
hour ; mix two table-spoons sweet-oil or ham gravy with as much 
vinegar, and a tea-spoon sugar ; add the cucumbers, which should 
be drained a little ; add a tea-spoon pepper, and stir w^ell. Sliced 
onions are an addition, if their flavor is liked. — Mrs. H, G. Mahncke. 

Ham Salad. 

Cut up small bits of boiled ham, place in salad-bowd with the 
hearts and inside leaves of a head of lettuce. ^lake dressing as fol- 
lows : Mix ill a sauce-pan one pint sour cream, as free from milk as 
possible, and half pint good vinegar, pepper, salt, a small piece of 
butter, sugar, and a small table-spoon of mustard mixed smooth ; 
boil, add the well-beaten yolks of two eggs, stirring carefully as for 
float, until it thickens to the consistency of starch, then set in a cool 
place or on ice, and when cold pour over salad and mix well. — Mrs. 
S. WaUon, Upper Sandusky, Ohio. 

Herring Salad. 
Soak over night three Holland herrings cut in very small pieces; 
cook and peel eight medium potatoes, and when cold chop with two 
small cooked red beets, two onions, a few sour apples, some roasted 
veal, and three hard-boiled eggs ; mix with a sauce of sweet-oil, 
^anegar, stock, pepper, and mustard to taste. A table-spoon of 
thick sour cream improves the sauce, which should stand over night 
in an earthen dish. — Mrs. H. C. Mahnd'e. 

Lettuce Salad. 
Take the yolks of three hard-boiled eggs, add salt and mustard 
to taste; mash it fine; make a paste by adding a dessert-spoon 
of olive-oil or melted butter (use butter always when it is difficult 
to getfrpf^h oil) : mix thoroughly, and then dilute by adding grad- 
nalhj a tea-cup of vinegar, and pour over the lettuce. Garnish by 
slicing another egg and laying over the lettuce. This is sufficient 
for a moderate-sized dish of lettuce.— 3/r8. Col Reid, Delaioare, Ohio. 

Lobster Salad. 
Put a large lobster over the fire in boilhig water slightly salted ; 
boil rapidly for about twenty minutes ; when done it will be of a 
bright red color, and should be removed, as if boiled too long it will 



292 



SALADS, 



be tough ; when cold, crack the claws, after first disjointing, twist 
off the head (which is used in garnishing), split the body in two 
lengthwise, pick out the meat in bits not too fine, saving the coral 
separate ; cut up a large head of lettuce slightly, and place on a 
dish over which lay the lobster, putting the coral around the out- 
side. Fo]- dressing, take the yolks of three eggs, beat w^eli, add 
four table-spoons salad-oil, dropping it in very slowly, beating all 
the time ; then add a little salt, cayenne pepper, half tea-spoon 
mixed mustard, and two table-spoons vinegar. Pour this over the 
lobster, just before sending to table. — 3Irs. A. WilsoUy Rye, N. Y. 

Potato Salad. 

Boil four large Irish potatoes, peel and mash smooth ; mince two 
onions, and add to the potato, make a dressing of the yolks of three 
hard-boiled eggs, one small tea-cup of vinegar, one tea-spoon black 
pepper, one dessert-spoon each of celery seeds and salt, one table- 
spoon each of prepared mustard and melted butter ; mix well with 
potato, and garnish with slices of egg and celery or lettuce. Or, 
chop cold boiled potatoes fine with enough raw onions to season 
nicely; make a dressing as for lettuce salad, and pour over it. — 
Mrs. James A. Jennings, Nashville, Tennessee. 

Salmon Salad. 
Set a can of salmon in a kettle of boiling water, let boil twenty 
minutes, take out of the can and put in a deep dish, pour off the 
juice or oil, put a few cloves in and around it, sprinkle salt and 
pepper over, cover w^ith cold vinegar, and let it stand a day, take 
it from the vinegar and lay it on a platter. Prepare a dressing as 
follows : Beat the yolks of two raw eggs with the yolks of two eggs 
boiled hard and mashed fine as possible; add gradually a table- 
spoon mustard, three of melted butter, or the best of salad-oil, a 
little salt and pepper (either black or cayenne), and vinegar to taste. 
Beat the mixture a long time (some persons like the addition of 
lemon juice and a little brown sugar) ; cover the salmon thickly 
with a part of the dressing, tear up very small the crisp inside 
leaves of lettuce, put in the remainder of the mixture, and pour 
over with two or three larger pieces placed around the salmon, and 
serve. 



SALADS. 



293 



Tomato Salad. 
Take the skin, juice, and seeds from nice, fresh tomatoes, chop 
what remains with celery, and add a good salad-dressing. 

Salad Dressing. 
Yolks of two hard-boiled eggs rubbed very fine and smooth, one 

tea-spoon English mustard, one of salt, the yolks of two raw eggs 

beaten into the other, dessert-spoon of fine sugar. Add very fresh 

sweet-oil poured in by very small quantities, and beaten as long as 

the mixture continues to thicken, then add vinegar till as thin as 

desired. If not hot enough with mnstard, add a little cayenne 

pepper. — Mrs. Gov. Cheney, New Hainpshire. 

Salad Dressing. 
The yolks of two eggs beaten thoroughly, one level tea-spoon salt, 
one of pep})er, two of white sugar, t\\»o tea-spoons prepared mustard, 
one table-spoon butter; stir in the mixture four table-spoons best 
vinegar, put dressing into a bo\\ l, set it in a kettle of hot Avater, and 
stir constantly till it thickens ; set away, and when cool it is ready 
for use. This is .sufficient for one quart finely-chopped cabbage, and 
should be poured over while hot, and thoroughly mixed with the 
cabbage, which may then be placed upon a platter, formed into an 
oval mound, and served cold. 

Bottled Salad Dressing. 

Beat yolks of eight eggs, add to them a cup of sugar, one table- 
spoon each of salt, mustard, and black pepper, a little cayenne, and 
half a cup of cream ; mix thoroughly ; bring to a boil a pint and a 
half vinegar, add one cup butter, let come to a boil, pour upon the 
mixture, stir well, and when cold put into bottles, and set in a cool 
place. It will keep for weeks in the hottest weather, and is excel- 
lent for cabbaL^e or lettuce. 

Cream Dressing for Cold Slaw\ 

Two table-spoons w^hipped sweet cream, two of sugar, and four 
of vinegar ; beat well and pour over cabbage, previously cut very 
fine and seasoned with salt. — Miss Laura Sharp, Kingston. 

Mayonnaise Dressing. 
Beat a raw egg (some use the yolks only) with a salt-spoon of salt 
(using a wooden-spoon) until it is thoroughly smooth, add a tea-spoon 



294 



SALADS. 



mixed mustard made rather thicker than usual ; when quite smooth 
add by degrees (a few drops only at a time) a half-pint of olive-oil, 
taking care to blend each portion of it with the egg before adding 
more. This ought to be as smooth as honey, and thick enough so 
that a spoon will stand up in it ; dilute with vinegar until it assume? 
the consistency of thick cream. A little anchovy may be added if 
desired. Lemon juice may be used instead of vinegar, or a few 
drops may be added with the vinegar. This is the smoothest and 
richest of salad dressings. The oily flavor is entirely lost in com- 
bination with the raw egg. When you begin to add the oil, drop a 
very little at first as it may curdle the egg. This sauce keeps well, 
if bottled and corked with a glass stopper, and it may be made at 
any time in advance, if only yolks are used, when yolks are left 
over from baking. In summer, place oil and eggs in a cold place, 
half an hour before making. 

Salab-Dressing ^vith Potato. 

Peel one large potato, boil, mash until all lumps are out, and add 
the yolk of a ra^v egg, stir all well together and season with a tea- 
spoon of mustard and a little salt ; add about half a gill of olive- 
oil and vinegar, putting in only a drop or two at a time, and stir- 
ring constantly, as the success of the dressing depends on its smooth- 
ness. This dressing is very nice with celery or cabbage chopped 
fine, and seasoned with a little salt and vinegar. — Mrs. E. L. Fay, 



SHELL-FISH. 



There is not a lover of oysters in existence who does not heartilj 
sympathize with the boy who wanted to spell August 0-r-g-u-s-t," 
in order to bring it into the list of the months which contain an *'r/' 
in all of which oysters are in season. The delicious bivalves furnish 
an important, and, in most localities, a not expensive article of food: 
and the ease with which they are prepared for the table, and the 
great variety of ways in which they may be cooked and served, 
make them a great favorite with housekeepers. 

Oysters in the shell must be kept in a cool cellar, and occasionally 
sprinkled with salt water. When fresh, the shell is firmly closed; 
if open, the oyster is dead and unfit for use. The small-shelled 
ovsters have the finest flavor. For the freshness of canned oysters 
it is necessary to trust to the dealer, but never buy cans the sides 
of which are swollen. In preparing them for cooking or for the 
table, carefullv remove all bits of shell. Never salt oysters for 
soups or stews till just before removing them from the fire, or they 
will shrivel up and be hard, and do not add butter. In frying, a 
little baking-poiuder added to the cracker-dust or corn-meal in which 
they are rolled will greatly improve them. Roasting in the shell 
preserves the natural flavor. Alwaijs serve immediately after cooking, 
no matter what method is used. 

As to nutritive qualities, oysters rank much below butcher's meats, 
and it is even questioned whether they contain the phosphorus, or 
brain food, which has been credited to them in company with the 
finny tribe in general. But, when properly cooked, they are easy 
of dio-estion, and very proper food for persons whose occupation is 

' (295) 



296 



SHELL-FISH. 



sedentary, and whose duties do not call for heavy muscular exertion. 
Even for invalids, they are nutritious and wholesome, when deli- 
cately prepared. 

Clam Chowder. 
Chop fifty clams, peel and slice ten raw potatoes, cut into dice six 
onions and a half pound fat salt pork, slice six tomatoes (if canned 
use a cotfee-cup full), add a pound ])ilot crackers; first put pork in 
il)ottom of pot and try out, partially cook onions in pork-fat, remove 
the mass from pot, and put on a plate bottom side up ; make layers 
of the ingredients, season w^ith pepper and salt, cover with water 
and boil an hour and a half, adding chopped parsley to taste. 

Clam Pie. 

Take three pints of either hard or soft-shell clams (if large, chop 
slightly), put in a sauce-pan and bring to a boil in their own liquor, 
or add a little water if needed; have ready four medium-sized po- 
tatoes, boiled till done and cut into small squares ; make a nice pie- 
paste with which line a medium-sized pudding-dish half way down 
the sides ; turn a small tea-cnp bottom up in middle of dish to keep 
up the top crust ; put in first a layer of clams, and then a few po- 
tatoes, season wdtli bits of butter and a little salt and pepper, and 
dredge w^ith flour; add another layer of clams, and so on till dish 
is filled, adding juice of clams, and a little watt^r if necessary (there 
should be about as much liquid as for chicken-pie). Cover with 
top-crust, cutting several slits for steam to escape, and bake three- 
quarters of an hour. — Mrs. A. Wilson, Bye, N. Y. 

Clam Stew\ 

Take half peck hard-shell clams, wash shells clean, and put in a 
kettle with about one tea-cup water ; let steam until the shells open, 
when take out of shell, strain juice, and return it with clams to the 
fire ; after they come to a boil, add one pint milk, a piece of butter 
size of an egg, three crackers rolled fine, pepper, and salt if any is 
needed. — Mrs. A. W. 

Fried Clams. 

Remove from shell large soft-shell clams; beat an egg w^ell and 
add two table-spoons water ; have the clams dried in a towel, and 
dip them first in the egg, then in finely-rolled cracker or breads 



SHELL-FISH. 



297 



crumbs, and fry (longer than oysters) in sweet lard or butter. Oys- 
ters may be prepared for cooking in same way. — Mrs. A. W. 

Deviled Ckabs. 
Pick the meat irom a boiled crab and cut in fine bits, add one- 
third as nuich bread-crumbs, two or three chopped hard-boiled eggs, 
and lemon juice; season with pepper, salt, and butter or cream. 
Clean the shells nicely and fill with the mixture, sprinkle over with 
bread-crumbs and small bits of butter, and brown in oven. Lob- 
sters may be prepared in same way, and served in silver scallop- 
shells. Or, boil one pint milk, and thicken with one table-spoon 
corn starch mixed in a little cold milk, season with pei)per (cayenne 
may be used) mid salt, and pour over the picked-up lobster ; put in 
bakuig-dish, and cover with bread-cruinbs and a few pieces of but- 
ter, and brown in oven. — Mrs. Col S., Xorfolk, Va. 

Boiled Oysters. 
Wash shell-oysters perfectly clean, place in a small willow basket, 
drop in a kettle of boiling water, and when shells open, lift basket, 
and serve oysters on the half shell. 

BROU.ED Oysters. 
Dry large, selected oysters in a napkin, pepper and salt, and 
broil on a fine f)lding wire-broiler, turning frequently to keep the 
juice from wasting. Serve immediately in a hot dish with little 
pieces of butter on them. Or, pepper a cup of dry bread-crumbs, 
dry one quart of oysters in a napkin, dip each in butter previously 
peppered, roll well in the crumbs, and l)roil over a good fire for 
five to seven minutes. Serve inmiediately in a hot dish with but- 
ter, pepper and salt. 

Broiled Oysters with Pork. 
String a hair-pin shaped wire, first with an oyster, then with a 
thin slice of pork, and so on until the wire is filled ; fasten ends of 
wire into a long wooden handle, and l)roil bef ore the fire. Serve, 
with the pork, if you like, seasoning slightly with pepper. 

Oyster Croquettes. 
Scald and chop fine hard part of the oysters (after taking the 
other part and liquor for a soup), add an equal weight of mashed 
potato ; to one pound of this add lump of butter the size of an egg. 



298 



SHELL-FISH. 



tea-spoon salt, half tea-spoon of pepper, and quarter of a tea-cup 
cream. Make in small cakes, dip in egg and then in bread-crumbs, 
and fry like doughnuts. 

Broiled Oycstek^ on the PIalf-shell. 
Select large shells, clean with a brush, open, saving juice ; put 
oysters in boihng water for a few minutes, remove and place each 
oyster in a half-shell, with juice ; place on a gridiron over a brisk 
fire, and when they begin to boil, season with butter, salt and 
pepper (some add a drop of lemon juice.) Serve on the half-shell. 

Curried Oysters. 
Put the liquor drained Irom a quart of oysters into a sauce-pan, 
add a half-cup of butter, two table-spoons flour, and one of currj 
powder, well mixed; let boil, add oysters, and a little salt; boil up 
once and serve. 

Deviled Oysters. 
Wipe the oysters dry and lay in a flat dish, cover with a mixture 
of melted butter, cayenne pepper (or pepper sauce), and lemon 
juice. Let them lie in this for ten minutes, turning them frequently; 
take out, roll in cracker crumbs, then in beaten egg, then in 
crumbs, and fry in hot lard and butter, half and half 

EscALOPED Oysters. 
Take crushed crackers, not too fine ; drain liquor from a quart 
of oysters and carefully remove all bits of shell, butter a deep 
dish or pan, cover the bottom with crackers, put in a layer of oys- 
ters seasoned with salt and pepper and bits of butter in plenty, 
then a layer of crackers, then oysters, and so on until dish is full, 
finishing with the crackers covered with bit;< of butter ; pour over 
the whole the oyster-liquor added to one pint of boiling water 
(boiled and skinnned), place in a hot oven, bake half an hour, add 
another pint of hot watei', or half pint water and half pint of milk, 
in \vhich a small lump of butter has been melted ; bake another 
half hour, and, to prevent browning too nuich, cover with a tin or 
sheet-iron lid. All bread-crumbs, or a mixture of crackers and 
bread-crum])s may be used when more convenient. As the amount 
of liquor in oysters varies, and the proportion of crackers or bread- 
crumbs to the oysters also varies, the quantity of water must be 



SHELL-FISH. 



299 



increased or diminished according to judgment and taste. Some 
prefer to cook half the time given above. Boiled macaroni may be 
used in place of cracker-crumbs. 

Or, cover the bottom of a \v ell-buttered baking dish ^vith a layer 
of crumbs, and wet these with the cream or milk, one-half cup put 
on spoon by spoon, salt aud pepper, and add bits of butter ; add one 
quart of oysters and liquor, pepper and bits of butter. Then cover 
thickly with crumbs and on them place more pieces of butter. Place 
in oven and cover— this is very important, as the flavor is thereby 
not allowed to escape— and bake till the juice bubbles up, from half 
to three-quarters of an hour. Remove cover and brown in upper 
part of oven for a few minutes, not long. Serve in dish in which it 
was baked. 

Fried Oysters. 

Drain carefully, remove all bits of shell, and sprinkle with pepper 
and salt, and set in a cool place for ten or fifteen minutes. Then, 
if oysters are small, pour them into a pan of crackers rolled fine, 
add the liquor, mix well, and let stand five minutes, add a little salt 
and pepper, mold into small cakes with two or three oysters in 
each, roll m dry crackers until well encrusted, and fry in hot lard 
and butter, or beef-dri])pings. Serve hot in a covered dish. 

Or, dip the oysters in the yolk of eggs, well seasoned and beaten, 
then in corn meal with a little baking powder mixed with it, and 
fry in hot lard like doughnut^ ; or if you have frying basket, place 
them on that and drop it in the hot lard. Test the heat as for 
doughnuts. 

Or, drain thoroughly, put in a Jwt frying-pan, turn so as to 
brown on both sides. They cook in this way in a few moments, 
and the peculiar flavor of the oysters is well preserved. Serve on 
a hot covered dish, with butter, pepper and salt, or add a little 
cream just before serving, and serve on toast ; or take two parts 
rolled crackers and one part corn meal, mix well, roll the oysters in 
it, and fry in equal parts butter and lard. Season with salt and 
pepper.— J/r8. TF. W. Woods. 

Fried Oysters. 
To fry oysters, take two dozen large oysters (they are sold under 
difierent names and brands in diflerent markets), drain ofi* liquor; 



300 



SHELL-FISH. 



have prepared cracker dust (which may be made by rolhng crackers 
Under a roUiiig pin, or bought of ahnost any grocer), take one oys- 
ter at a tune, roll in cracker dust, and lay on a meat board or plat- 
ter by itself until all are so encased, and laid in rows ; let remain 
fifteen minutes, now take the oyster first rolled in cracker dust and 
dip in beaten eggs (yolk and white beaten together), then the second 
oyster, and so on until all are dipped, then roll in cracker dust, 
following same order as before. Let them remain from half to 
three-quarters of an hour. It is important to follow the same order 
in each operation, to give the liquor of the oyster time to drain 
out and be absorbed by the cracker dust ; now heat in a frying-pan 
one pound of clarified fat or lard; when the blue smoke arises 
(which indicates a heat of 375°, the proper cooking point), drop 
into it a peeled potato or piece of hard bread, which has the efiect 
of preventing the fat growing hotter, drop in the oysters very lightly, 
and when a liirht brown turn to brown the other side ; and then 
remove to a colander to drain a moment, or lay upon a piece of 
brown paper, which will absorb the superfluous grease. The time 
for cooking is about three minutes. Serve while hot on a hot platter. 
Fried oysters, to be at their best, must be eaten as soon as cooked; 
and when a second supply is likely to be needed, it should be cooked 
while the first is being served and eaten. It is better not to touch 
the oysters witii the liand, as it tends to make them tough ; all the 
rolling and dipping may be done with a fork, without mangling the 
oyster. 

Fricasseed Oysters. 
Take a slice of raw ham (corned and not smoked), soak in 
boiling water for half an hour, cut in very small slices and put 
in a sauce-pan with two-thirds pint of veal or chicken broth well 
strained, the liquor from one quart oysters, one small onion minced 
very fine, a little chopped parsley, sweet marjoram and pepper. 
Let these simmer twenty minutes, boiling rapidly for two or three 
minutes. Then skim well and add one scant table-spoon of corn 
starch mixed smoothly in one-third cup of milk, stir constantly, 
and when it boils add the oysters and one ounce of butter ; just let 
it come to a boil, remove oysters to a deeper dish, then beat one 
egg and add to it gradually some of the hot broth, and when cooked 



SHELL-FISH. 



301 



stir it into the pan ; season with salt and pour all over the oysters. 
When placed upon the table some squeeze the juice of a lemon 
over it. 

Oyster Fritters. 
Drain off liquor, boil, skim, and to a cupful add a cup of milk, 
two or three eggs, salt and pepper, and flour enough to make a 
rather thick batter. Have hot lard or beef drippings ready in a 
kettle, drop the batter into it with a large spoon, taking up one 
oyster for each spoonful. The oyster must be large and plump. 

Oyster Omelet. 
Add to a half cup of cream six eggs beaten very light, season 
with pepper and salt, and pour into a frying-pan with a table-spoon 
of butter ; drop in a dozen large oysters cut in halves, or chopped 
fine with parsley, and fry until a light brown. Double it over, and 
serve immediately.— l/rs. T. B. Johnson, Tuscumbia. 

Panned Oysters. 
Cut stale bread in thin slices, then round them, removing all 
crust. Make them to fit patty-pans; toast them, butter, and 
place in pans. Moisten with three or four tea-spoons of oyster 
liquor; then place on the toast a layer of oysters, sprinkle with 
pepper, and put on top a small piece of butter; place pans in a 
baking pan and put in oven, covering with a tin lid, or if not large 
enough, another pan to keep in the steam and flavor ; have a quick 
oven, and when cooked seven or eight minutes, until ruffled," 
remove cover and sprinkle with salt ; replace cover and cook one 
minute longer. Serve in the patty-pans. This is delicious. 

Oyster Pie. 

Line a deep pie-dish with puff-paste; dredge with 'flour, pour in 
one pint oysters, season well with bits of butter, salt and pepper, 
and sprinkle flour over; pour on some of the oyster-liquor, and 
cover with a crust having an opening in the center to allow the 
steam to escape. 

Or, fine the pie-dish half way up with good pie-crust, fill the dish 
with pieces of stale bread, place a cover of paste over this, and 
bake about twenty minutes in a brisk oven. Take off crust, have 
ready some oysters prepared as for patties, fill the pie with them, 



302 



SHELL-FISH. 



and replace the crust and serve at once ; or line dish with a good 
puff-paste, place an extra layer around the edge, and bake in a brisk 
oven ; fill Avitb oysters, season with pepper, salt, and one table-spoon 
butter, spriidvlc slightly with flour, and cov-^r with a thin cru>f of 
paste; bake quickly; when the top crust is clone, the pie will be 
ready to take up. Serve promptly, as the crust quickly absorbs t]ie 
gravy. Some like this cold for picnics or traveling. — Mrs. Carrie 

Oyster Tickles. 
To every quart of liquor adil a tea-spoon of black pepper, a pod 
of red pepper broken in bits, two bkules of mace, a tea-spoon salt, 
two dozen cloves, and half a pint of best vinegar, add the oysters 
and simmer gently for a few minutes, take out and put in small 
jars; then boil the pickle, skim it, and pour over them. Keep 
them in a dark, cool place, and when a jar is opened, use up its 
contents as quickly as possible. Oysters pickled thus will keep 
good four or five weeks. 

Oyster Roll. 

Cut a round piece, say six inches across, from the top of a well- 
baked round loaf of bread, remove the inside from the loaf, leaving 
crust half an inch thick; make a rich oyster stew, and put in the 
loaf first a layer of it, then of bread-crumbs, then oysters, and so 
on ; place cover over the top, glaze the loaf with the beaten volk 
of an egg, and place in oven for a few moments. Serve very hot. 

Raw Oysters. 

Wash the shells, open, detaching the flat shell, loosen from the 
deep shell, but leave them in it, and serve half dozen on a plate, 
with a quarter of lemon in center. Eat with salt, pepper and lemon 
juice or vinegar. 

In serving them without the shells the most attractive way is in 
a dish of ice, made by freezing vvater in a tin form shaped like a 
salad bowl, or in a block of ice from which a cavity has been 
melted with a hot flat-iron. They should first be drained well in a 
colander, sprinkled with plenty of pepper and salt, and placed on 
the ice and let remain in a cool place for half an hour or until time 
of serving. 

A simpler and equally delicious way is to drain well, sprinkle 
with salt and pepper, and place the dish on ice or in a dish of cold 



SHELL-FISH. 



30S 



water for half an hour before serving, adding bits of ice. Serve 
with horse-radish, ChiH sauce, slices of lemon, or simply vinegar. 

Oysters in thp] Shell. 
Open the shells, keeping the deepest ones for use. Melt some 
butter, season with minced parsley and pepper. When slightly 
cooled, roll each oyster in it, usiiig care that it drips but little, and 
lay in the shells. Add to each shell a little lemon juice, cover with 
grated bread-crumbs, place in a baking-pan and bake in a quick 
oven; just before they are done, add a little salt. Serve in tlie 

Oyster Stew. 

Put the liquor from the oysters on the stove, let boil, skim, and 
season with butter and pepper, add oysters, let come to a boil only, 
season with salt and serve. This is pronounced a royal stew." 

Steamed Oysters. 

Lay some oysters in the shell in some air-tight vessel, placing the 
upper shell downward so the liquor will not run out when they 
open. Set them over a pot of boiling water (where they will get 
the steam j, and boil hard for twenty minutes; if the oysters are 
open they are done ; if not, steam till they do open. Serve at once 
and eat hot, with salt and a bit of butter. Or, wash and drain one 
quart select oysters, put in pan and place in steamer over boiling 
water, cover and steam till oysters are plump with edges ruffled; 
place in lieated dish with butter, pepper and salt, and serve. 

Walled Oysters. 

Make a wall one and one-half inches high and three-quarters wide 
of one quart nicely mashed and seasoned potatoes, just inside raised 
edge of platter, glaze it by covering with beaten egg and placing in 
oven for a few minutes. Place the liquor from one quart oysters in 
porcelain kettle, let boil, skim well, then add oysters seasoned with 
salt, boil up once, skim out oysters ( milk or water can be added to 
the liquor, then seasoned with butter and pepper, and served as 
soup), and add them to a cream dressing made by putting a tea-cup 
rich cream, butter size of half an egg, and a little pepper and tea- 
spoon salt in a pan placed within a vessel of boiling water ; when 
hot add two ounces of flour mixed smooth in some cream or milk, 
and let cook till thickened, then place oysters and dressing within 
the potato and serve immediately. 



SOUPS. 



To make nutritious, healthful and palatable soup, with flavors 
properly commingled, is an art which requires study and practice, 
but it is surprising fj om what a scant allotment of material a deli- 
cate and appetizing dish may be produced. The best base for soup 
is lean uncooked meat, a pound of meat to a quart of water, to 
which may be added chicken, turkey, beef, or mutton bones well 
broken up; a mixture of beef, mutton and veal, with a bit of ham 
bone, all cut fine, makes a higher flavored soup than any single 
meat; the legs of all meats are rich in gelatine, an important con- 
stituent of soup. For white stock use veal or fowls instead of beef. 

Soups, which make the principal part of a meal, should be richer 
than those which simply precede a heavier course of meats, etc. 

When remnants of cooked meats are used, chop fine, crush the 
bones, add a ham bone or bit of ham or salt pork (two or three 
cubic inches) and all ends of roasts and fa«y parts, and the brown 
fat of the roast; make the day previous to use; strain, set away 
over night, skim off the fat (which clarify and save for drippings), 
and it is ready to heat and serve. 

When soup is desired for a first course, daily, a soup-kettle should 
be especially provided, with a faucet to draw off the clear soup to 
be seasoned for each day ; and all the bones and bits of meat left 
after dinner can be thrown into the kettle, also bits of vegetables 
and bread, and the gravies tliat are left from roast meats and cut- 
lets. In this way there will be nothing lost, and the soups can be 
varied by seasonings and thickenings of different kinds. Every 
two or three days, however, the contents of the kettle should be 
turned out, after all the liquid has been drawn off", and the kettle 



so UPS. 



305 



washed clean and scalded, for if this is not attended to, the soups 
will soon lose tlieir piquant flavor and become stale. 

In using fresh meat throw the pieces as cut into the required 
quantity of cold water and let stand until the juices of the meat 
begin to color it, then put on to boil ; in this way the juices of the 
meat are more readily drawn out. The soup is done when the meat 
is juiceless. 

The best herbs are sage, thyme, sweet marjoram, tarragon, mint, 
sw^eet basil, parsley, bay-leaves, cloves, mace, celery-seed and onions. 
Plant the seed of any of the seven first-mentioned in little boxes 
on the window sill, or in a sunny spot in the yard. Gather and 
dry them as follows : parsley and tarragon should be dried in June 
and July, just bef)re flowering; mint in June and July; thyme, 
marjoram an<l savory in July and August ; basil and sage in August 
and September ; all herbs should be gathered in the sunshine, and 
dried by artificial heat ; their flavor is l)est })reserved by keeping 
them in air-ti«'ht tin cans, or in ti^^htlv-corked glass bottles. 

Seasonings for soups may be varied to suit tastes. The simplest 
may have only pepper and salt, while the richest may have a little 
of every savor, so delicately blended that no one is conspicuous. 
The best seasoning is that which is made up of the smallest quan- 
tity from each of many spices. No measure can be given, because 
the good soup-maker must be a skillful taster. There must be a 
flavor of salt; that is, the water must not be insipid (less is needed 
if bits of salt meat are used), there nuist be a warm tone from the 
pepper, but not the taste of pepper; in short, the spicing should be 
delicate rather than profuse. Those who like I'ank flavors may add 
them to suit their coarse and uneducated })ahue-. For brown soups 
the dark spices may be used ; for white, mace, aromatic seeds, cream 
and curry. Many herbs, either fresh or dried, are used as seasoning, 
and all the choice catsups and sauces. 

Rice, sago, pearled barley, vermicelli, macaroni, etc., are desir- 
able additions to meat soups. The first thi-ee are used in the pro- 
portion of half a tea-cup to three quarts of .sou}) ; wash and soak. 
Kice requires half to three-quarters of an hour, boiling in the soup; 
sago cooks in fifteen minutes; barley should be soaked over night, 

or for several hours; boil by itself in a little water till tender; add 
20 



306 



SO UPS. 



to the soup just before serving. Vermicelli and macaroni should 
be broken up small, and washed thoroughly ; boil in the soup half 
an hour. 

If a soup is wanted without any addition of vegetables, but thick- 
ened, arrow-root or corn starch is used in the proportion of two 
round tea-spoons of the latter and two scant tea-spoons of the former 
to a quart of soup. Mix with a little water until smooth, and add 
when the soup is nearly done. AVheat flour is also used for thick- 
ening, but it requires three round table-spoons to the quart. If not 
thick enouo^h to suit the taste more mav be added. Browned flour 
does not thicken, the starchy property having been I'emoved in the 
browning process. 

Thickened sou})s require more seasoning than thin soups ; if Avanted 
very clear and delicate, strain through a hair sieve. 

Always use cold water in making all soups ; skim well, especially 
during the first hour. There is great necessity for thorough skim- 
ming, and to help the scum rise, pour in a little cold water now and 
then, and as the soup reaches the boiling point, skim it ofl*. Use 
salt at first sparingly, and season with salt and pepper ; allow one 
quart soup to three or four persons. 

For a quick soup, crush the bone and cut the meat rather fine ; 
Avhen done, strain and serve. Every kitchen should be provided 
with a soup-kettle (Avhich has a double bottom), or a large iron \K)t 
wdth a tight-fitting tin cover with a hole size of a large darning- 
needle in it at one side of the handle. Keep kettle covered closely, 
so that the flavor may not be lost, and simmer slowly, so that the 
quantity may not be much reduced by evaporation, but if it has 
boiled away (which may be the case when the meat is to be used 
for the table), pour in as much hot water as is needed, and add 
vegetables, noodles, or any thickening desired. Vegetables should 
be added just long enough before soup is done to allow them to be 
thoroughly cooked. An excellent soup for a small fiimily may be 
made from the bones and trimmings cut from a steak before broil- 
ing. The bones from a rib roast, which are generally cut out and 
thrown away by the butcher, after weighing, should always be 
ordered sent with roast and used for soup. 

For coloring and flavoring soups, use caramel, browned flour. 



SOUPS. 



307 



onions fried brown, meat with cloves in it, or bro\vned with butter. 
Poached eggs are an excellent addition to some soups. They should 
be added just before serviug, one for each person. They may be 
poached in water or dropped into the boiling soup, or two or three 
eggs, well-beaten and added just before pouring in tureen, make a 
nice thickening. Cayenne pepper or a bit of red pepper pod, Wor- 
cestershire, Halford, or Chili sauce, and catsups, are considered by 
many an improvement to soup, but must be cautiously used. Force- 
meat balls, made of the meat boiled for the soup, are also used. 

SOUP STOCK. 

To four pounds of lean beef (the inferior parts are quite as good 
for this purpose) put four quarts of cold water (soft is best), wash 
the meat and put it in the water without salt ; let it come slowly to' 
boiling point, skim well before the agitation of the water has broken 
the scum, add a little salt, and a dash of cold water, to assist the 
scum to rise, skim again, set back and let it boil gently on one side 
or in one i>lace, and not all over ('* the pot should smile, not laugh"), 
for six or eight hours, until the meat is in rags (rapid boihng 
hardens the hber of the meat and the savory flavor escapes with the 
steam), add a httle pepper, strain into a stone jar, let it cool, and re- 
move all the grease. This stock will keep for many days in cold 
weather, and from it can be made all the various kinds of soups by 
adding onion, macaroni, celery, asparagus, green pease, carrot, 
tomato, okra, parsley, thyme, summer savory, sage, and slices of 
lemon; many of the herbs may be first dried, then pulverized and 
put in cans or jars for wn'nter use. Celery and carrot seed may be 
used in place of the fresh vegetables. Macaroni should be first 
boiled in slightly salted water, cut in pieces one or two inches long, 
and added a short time before serving. To prepare soup for dinner, 
cut ofi'a slice of the jelly, add water, heat and serve. Whatever is 
added to this, such as rice, tapioca, vegetables, etc., may first be 
cooked before being added, as much boiling injures the flavor of the 
stock. 

A rich stock can also be made from a shank or shin of beef 
(knuckle of veal is next best) ; cut in several pieces, crack the 
bones, add four quarts water, boil up quickly, skim, add salt, skim, 
and let boil gently until the liquor is reduced one-half; strain, cool 



308 



SO UPS. 



and skim, and if boiled properly and long enough, an excellent jelly 
will result. Too violent boiling makes the stock cloudy and dark. 
To clarify stock that has been darkened by careless skinmiing and 
improper boilinu', mix one egg and shell in a gill of cold water, add 
a o-ill of the boiliuo- soup, then stir into the scmp until it boils up; re- 
move to back of stove, and let stand until the white and shell of the 
•egg have collected the particles that color the soup, and strain once or 
tmcQ until it looks clear. Stock should never be allowed to stand 
and cool in the pot in which it is cooked ; pour into an earthen dish, 
let stand to cool uncovered, when all the fat should be removed and 
saved to clarifv f)r drippings; the stock is then ready for use as 
wanted f )r soaps or gravies. The flavor of stock may be varied by 
usino; ill it a little ham, anchovv, satisao^e, sugar, or a calf's foot. 
Sprigs of herbs, and whole spices may be used in seasoning, and 
afterward strained out. Delicate flavors should be added just before 
serving, as boiling evaporates them. Stock made from meat without 
bone or gristle will not jelly, but will taste very like good beef- 
tea. Never boil vegetables with stock, as they will cause it to 
become sour. 

An economical soup-stock may be made of steak or roast-beef 
bones, after cooking, adding a little piece of fresh meat, or none at 
all, and allowing it to simmer at least five hours; strain, remove all 
fat the next dav, and it will be ready for use. 

SOUP FROM STOCK. 

To make soup from any stock, put on as much stock as needed 
(if in jelly, scrape the sediment frcmi off* the bottom), add seasoning, 
water and vegetables. Tlie potatoes should be peeled, sliced, and 
laid in salt and water for half an hour, the cabbage parboiled and 
drained, and all others either sliced or cut fine, before adding them 
to the soup ; boil until thoroughly dissolved, strain through a 
colander and serve at once. 

ANOTHER WAY. 

When stock is drawn ofl*, season with celery salt. A little vermicelli 
boiled in it for fifteen minutes will give it more body— or some of 
the fancy letters, stars, triangles, etc., that are made particularly 
for soups can be used, or egg-balls can be made by mixing raw egg 
with just enough wheat flour or corn starch to make it into round 



SOUPS. 



309 



balls, then drop them into the soup and boil for ten minutes. A 
little milk, a tea-spoon to one egg, is an improvement ; also a 
sprinkle of salt. These balls are sometimes called " noodles." If a 
richer soup is needed, take slices of law veal and a little salt pork, 
and chop very fine with a slice of wheat bread. Season highly with 
pepper, salt, ttanato catsup, and chopped lemon peel, moisten with 
two well-lxaten eggs, and roll into balls as large as a walnut, with 
floured hands. Frv the balls in butter to a dark brown, and let 
them cool; turn into the soup and boil about ten minutes. Cut a 
lemon mio very thin bits, slice two hard-boiled eggs, put them into 
the tureen ; add a glass of claret or port wine to them and turn in 
soup; it is a very " dainty dish." 

Clam Soup.* 

First catch your cUiiiis — along the ebhing edges 

Of saline coves 3'ou'll tiiid tlie precious wedges, 

With backs up, lurking in the sandy bottom ; 

Pull in your iron rake, and lo ! you 've got 'em ! 

Take thirty large ones, put a basin under, 

And cleave, with knife, their stony jaws asunder; 

Add water (three quarts) to the native liquor, 

Bring to a boil, (and, by the way, the quicker 

It boils the better, if you'd do it cutely.) 

Now add the clams, chopped up and minced minutely. 

Allow a longer boil of just three minutes, 

And while it bubbles, quickly stir within its 

Tumultuous depths where still the moUusks mutter, 

Four table-spoons of flour and four of butter, 

A pint of milk, some }>epper to your notion, 

And clams need salting, alth(nigh born of ocean. 

Remove from lire ; (if much boiied they will suffer — 

Youdl hud that India-rubber im n't tougher.) 

After 'tis off, add three fresh eggs, well-beaten, 

Stir once more, and it's ready to be eaten. 

Fruit of the wave! 0, daintv and delicious! 

Food for the gods! Ambrosia for Apicius! 

Worthy to thrill the soul of sea-born Venus, 

Or titillate the palate of Silenus ! 

Ax Economical Soup. 
Take a soup bone (auy piece of beef not too fat will do), wash 
\vell, place in kettle with sufficieut cold water for soup ; let it boil, 

♦Written for '-Buckeye Cookery and Practical Jlousekeeping," by W. A. Cboffut, 
editor of" Daily Graphic," New York. 



810 



SO UPS. 



skim thoroughly and continue to boil slowly from three to six hours, 
according to size and quality of meat ; one hour before dinner, put 
in cabbage cut in quarters, sprinkling it with salt; quarter of an 
hour after add turnips halved or quartered according to size ; quarter 
of an hour after turnips, add potatoes whole, or cut in two if large 
(turnips and potatoes should be pared and laid in cold water half 
an hour before using). When done take out vegetables and meat, 
place in heater, or if you have no heater, place plates over a pot or 
skillet of boiling water. If there is not enough soup, add boiling 
w^ater, stir in a little thickening of flour and water, let it boil thor- 
oughly ; season to the taste with salt and pepper and serve at once. 
The soup will be excellent and the vegetables very fine. 

Asparagus Soup. 
Cut the tops from about thirty heads of asparagus, about half an 
inch long, and boil the rest ; cut ofi^ all the tender portions and rub 
through a sieve, adding a Httle salt; warm three pints soup stock, 
add a small lump of butter and a tea-spoon of flour previously 
cooked by heating the butter and slowly stirring in the flour; then 
add the asparagus pulp. Boil slowly a quarter of an hour, stirring 
in two or three table-spoons cream ; color the soup with a tea-spoon 
of prepared spinach, made by pounding the spinach well, adding a 
few drops of water, squeezing the juice through a cloth and putting 
it over a good tire. As soon as it looks curdv, take it ofl^, and strain 
the liquor through a sieve. What remains on the sieve is to be used 
for coloring the soup. Just before serving soup, add the asparagus 
tops which have been separately boiled. 

Beef Soup. 

Take the cracked joints of heei\ and after putting the meat in the 
pot and covering it well with water, let it come to a boil, when it 
should be well skimmed. Set the pot where the meat will simmer 
slowly until it is thoroughly done, keeping it closely covered all the 
time. The next day, or when cold, remove the fat which hardens 
on the top of the soup. Peel, wash and slice ttiree good-sized 
potatoes and put them into the soup ; cut up half a head of white 
cabbage in shreds, and add to this a pint of Shaker corn that has 
been soaked over night, two onions, one head of celery, and tomatoes 



so UPS. 



311 



If desired. When these are done, and they should simmer slowly, 
care being taken that they do not burn, strain (or not as preferred) 
the soup and serve. The different varieties of beef soup are formed 
by this method of scasoninsr and the different vegetables used in 
preparing it, after the joints have been well boiled. Besides onions, 
celerv, cabbages, tomatoes and potatoes, many use a few carrots, 
turnips, beets, and force-meat balls seasom d with spice ; rice or l)ar- 
ley will give the soup consistency, and are to be preferred to flour 
for the purpose. Parsley, thyme and sage are the favorite herbs 
for seasoning, but should be used sparingly. To make force-meat 
balls, add to one pound chopped ])eef one egg, a small lump butter, 
a cup or less of bread-crumbs ; season with salt and pepper, and 
moisten with the water from stewed meat ; make in balls and fry 
brown, or make egg-balls by boiling eggs, mashing the yolks with 
a silver spoon, and mixing with one raw yolk and one tea-spoon 
flour ; season with salt and pepper, make into balls, drop in soup 
just before serving.-- -ifrs. H. B. Sherman. 

Beef Soup with Okra. 
Fry one pound round" steak cut in bits, two table-spoons 
butter, and one sliced onion, till very brown ; add to three or four 
quarts cold water in soup-kettle, and boil slowly one hour ; then add 
pint sliced okra, and simmer three hours or more ; season with salt 
and pepper, strain and serve.— J/rs. T. B. J., Tuscwnbia, Ala. 

Beef Soup. 

Take bones and trimmings from a sirloin steak, put over fire after 
breakfast in three quarts water, boil steadily until about an hour 
before dinner, when add two onions, one carrot, three common-sized 
potatoes, all sliced, some parsley cut fine, a red pepper, and salt to 
taste. This makes a delicious soup, sufficient for three persons. 
All soups are more palatable seasoned with onions and red pepper, 
using the seeds of the latter with care, as they are very strong. 

Bean Soup. 

Boil a small soup-bone in about two quarts water until the meat 
can be separated from the bone, remove bone, add a coffee-cup white 
beans soaked for two hours, boil for an hour and a half, add three 
potatoes, half a turnip and a parsnip, all sliced fine, boil half an 



312 



SO UPS, 



hour longer, and just before serving sprinkle in a few dry bread" 
crumbs ; season with salt and pepper, and serve with raw onions 
sUced very fine for those who hke them. — Mrs. A. B. Morey. 

TuKTLE Bean 8oup. 
Soak one pint black beans over night, then put them into three 
quarts water with beef bones or a small piece of lean salt pork, boil 
three or four hours, strain, season with salt, pepper, cloves and 
lemon juice. Put iu a few slices of lemon, and if wished add slices 
of hard-boiled eggs. Serve with toasted bread cut into dice and 
placed in the tureen. — Mrs. H. C. Clark, Kankakee, 111. 

Saturday Beax Soup. 
Baked beans and brown bread form a Sunday breakfast for so 
many that the following will be a useful and economical soup for 
Saturday dinner. Put on the pot with more beans tl:..n enough for 
Sunday's breakfast, with water, and slice of salt pork ; parboil till 
beans are ready to be put in oven. Take out pork and part of 
beans, leaving enough for a bean soup ; place the pot on back of 
stove and keep hot. Three-quarters of an hour before dinner heat 
soup, add more water and vegetables as in " Bean Soup." 

Meatless Bean Soup. 
Parboil one pint beans, drain off the water, add fresh, let boil 
until perfectly tender, season with pepper and salt, add a piece of 
butter the size of a walnut, or more if preferred; when d(me skim 
out half the beans, leaving the broth with the remaining half in 
the kettle, now add a tea-cup sweet cream or good milk, a dozen or 
more crackers broken up; let it boil up, and serve. 

Carrot Soup. 

Put in soup-kettle a knuckle of veal, three or four quarts cold 
water, a quart finely-sliced carrots, one head celery ; boil two and a 
half hours, add a handful rice, and boil an hour longer; season 
Avith pepper ( or a bit of red pepper pod) and salt, and serve. 

Celery Cream Soup. 

Boil a small cup rice in three pints milk, until it will pass through 
a sieve. Grate the white part of two heads of celery (three if 
small) on n l)rer:d-grator ; add this to the rice milk after it has been 



so UPS. 



31B 



strained; put to it a quart of strong white stock; let boil until cel- 
ery is perfectly tender; season with salt and cayenne, and serve.^ If 
cream is obtaniable, substitute one pint for the same quantity of 
milk. 

Chicken Soup. 

In boihng chickens for sakids, etc., the broth (water in which 
they are boiled) may be used for soup. When the chickens are to 
be served whole, stuff and tie in a ch)th. To the broth add a dozen 
tomatoes (or a quart can), and one thinly-sliced onion ; boil twenty 
minutes, season with salt and pepper, add two well-beaten eggs, and 
serve.— i/r8. Smythe, New York City. 

Clam Soup. 

Wash clams, and place in just sulhcient water for the soup, let 
boil, and as soon as they clear from shells, take out and place clams 
in a jar for ])ickling ; throw into the broth a pint each of sweet 
milk 'and rolled crackers, add a little salt, boil five minutes, and 
just before taking from the fire, add one ounce butter beaten with 
two eggs. Serve, and let each person season to taste. 

Gkeex Corn Soup. 

One large fowl, or four pounds veal (the knuckle or neck will do), 
put over fire in one gallon cold water without salt, cover tightly 
and simmer slowly till meat slips from the bones, not allowing it to 
boil to rags, as the meat will make a nice dish for breakfast or 
lunch, or even for dinner. Set aside with the meat a cup of the 
liquor ; strain the soup to remove all bones and rags of meat ; grate 
one dozen ears of green corn, scraping cobs to remove the heart of 
the kernel, add corn to soup, with salt, pepper, and a little parsley, 
and simmer slowlv half an hour. Just before serving add a table- 
spoon flour beaten' verv thoroughly with a table-spoon butter. Serve 
hot. To serve chicken or veal, put broth (which was reserved) m 
a clean sauce-pan, beat one egg, a table-spoon butter and a tea- 
spoon flour together verv thoroughly, and add to the broth with 
salt, pepper, and a little chopped parsley. Arrange meat on dish, 
pour over dressing, boiling hot, and serve at once. 

Gumbo. 

Slice a large onion and put it with a slice of bacon or fat ham 



814 



SO UPS. 



into a skillet and brown it ; skin and cut up two quarts tomatoes, 
cut thin one quart okra, put all together with a little parsley into a 
stew-kettle, adding about three quarts water, and cook slowly two 
or three hours, adding salt and pepper to taste. — Mrs, E. A. W. 

Mock Turtle or Calf's-head Soup. 
Lay one large calf's head well cleaned and washed, and four pig's 
feet, in bottom of a large pot, and coyer with a gallon of water ; 
boil three hours, or until flesh will slip from bones ; take out head, 
leaymg the feet to be boiled steadily while the meat is cut from the 
head ; select with care enough of the fatty portions in the top of the 
head and the cheeks to fill a tea-cup, and set aside to cool ; remoye 
brams to a saucer, and also set aside; chop the rest of the meat 
with the tongue yery fine, season with salt, pepper, powdered mar- 
joram and thyme, a teaspoon of cloyes, one of mace, half as much 
allspice and a grated nutmeg. When the flesh falls from the bones 
of the feet, take out bones, leaying the gelatinous meat ; boil all 
together slowly, Avithout reraoying the coyer, for two hours more ; 
take the soup from the fire and set it away until the next day. An 
hour before dinner set the stock oyer the fire, anfl when it boils 
strain carefully and drop in the meat reseryed, wliich should haye 
been cut, wdien cold, into small squares. Haye these all ready as 
well as the force-meat balls, to prepare which rul) the yolks of fiye 
hard-boiled eggs to a paste in a wedgewood mortar, or in a bowl 
with the back of a silyer spoon, adding gradually the brains to 
moisten them, also a little butter and salt. Mix with these, two 
eggs beaten yery light, flour the hands and make this paste into 
balls about the size of a pigeon's egg : throw them into the soup 
five minutes before taking it from the fire ; stii" in a large table- 
spoon browned flour rubbed smooth in a little cold water, and finish 
the seasoning by the addition of a glass and a half of sherry or 
Maderia wine, and the juice of a lemon. It should not boil more 
than half an hour on the second day. Serye with sliced lemons. 

^Mutton Soup. 

Boil a nice leg of mutton, and take the water for the soup, add 
two onions chopped fine, potato, half a cup of barley, and two large 
tomatoes ; season with pepper and salt, boil one hour, stir often (as 
barley is apt to burn), and, before taking from the fire, add one 



so UPS. 



315 



table-spoon flour wet with cold water.— Jfr.?. E. R, Fay. New York 
City. 

Noodle Soup. 

Add noodles to beef or any other soup after straining ; they will 
cook in fifteen or twenty minutes, and are prepared in the follow- 
ing manner : To one egg add as much sifted Hour as it will absorb, 
with a little salt ; roll out as thin as a wafer, dredge very lightly 
with flour, roll over and over into a large roll, slice from the ends, 
shake out the strips loosely and drop into the soup. 

Okra Soup. 

Take a nice joint of beef filled with marrow, one gallon water, 
one onion cut fine, two sprigs parsley, half a peck of okra, one 
quart tomatoes ; boil the meat six hours, add vegetables and boil 
two hours more. — Mn^. E. L. F. 

Oyster Soup avith Milk. 
Pour one quart cold water over one quart oysters if solid; if not 
solid, use one pint of water, drain through a colander into the soup- 
kettle, and when it boils skim ; add pepper, then the oysters; season 
with butter and salt, then add one quart rich new milk brought to 
boiling point in a tin pail set in a pot of boiling water, let boil up 
and serve at once. Or, instead of adding the milk, place it, boiling 
hot, in tureen, pour the soup over it and then serve. 

Plain Oyster Solt. 
Pour a quart oysters in colander, rinse by pouring over them 
pint cold water, put this in porcelain kettle, add a pint boiling 
water, let boil, skim thoroughly, season with pepper and piece of 
butter size of large egg; then add oysters, having removed all sheik 
let boil up once, season with salt and serve.— Lizzie C. Rob- 
inson. 

Pot au Feu. 

Take a good-sized beef-bone with plenty of meat on it, extract 
the marrow and place in a pot on the back of the range, covering 
the beef with three or more quarts of cold water ; cover tightly, 
and allow to simmer slowly all day long. The next day, before heat- 
ing, remove the cake of grease from the top, and add a large onion 
(previously stuck full of whole cloves, and then roasted in the 



316 



SO UPS. 



oven till of a rich-brown color), adding tomatoes or any other 
vegetables which one may fancy. A leek or a section of orarlic 
adds much to the fl:iyor. Kicc may be added, or vermicelli for a 
change. Just before serving, burn a little brown sugar and stir 
through it. This gives a peculiar Havor and rich color to the soup. — 
Mr.i. Col. Clifford Thomp-^on, Xeiv York City. 

Greex Pea Socp. 

Boil three pints shelled pease in three quarts of water; when quite 
soft, mash through a colander, adding a little water to free the pulp 
from the skins ; return pulp to the water in which it was boiled, add 
a head of lettuce chopped, and half a pint young pease ; boil half 
an hour, season with salt and pepper, and thicken with two table- 
spoons butter rubbed into a little Hour. Serve with bits of toasted 
bread. The soup, when done, should be as thick as cream. Some 
omit the lettuce. 

Potato Soup. 

To one gallon of water add six large potatoes chopped fine, one 
tea-cup rice, a lump of butter size of an egg, one table-spoon flour. 
Work butter and flour together, and add one tea-cup sweet cream 
just before taking from the fire. Boil one hour. — Miss Lida Canhy, 

Sw^iss Soup. 

Five gallons water, six potatoes and three turnips sliced; boil five 
hours until perfectly dissolved and the consistency of pea soup, fill- 
ing up as it boils away ; add butter size of an egg, season with salt 
and pepper, and serve. Pl small piece salt pork, a bone or bit of 
veal or lamb, and an onion, may be added to vary this soup. 

Tomato Soup. 

Skim and strain one gallon of stock made from nice fresh beef; 
take three (piarts tomatoes, remove skin and cut out hard center, 
put through a fine sieve, and add to the stock ; make a paste of 
butter and flour, and, when the stock begins to boil, stir in half a 
tea-cup, taking care not to have it lumpy ; boil twenty minutes, 
seasoning with salt and pepper to taste. Two quarts canned 
tomatoes will answer. — Mrs. Col, Eeid, Delaivare. 



so UPS. 



317 



Meatless Tomato Soup. 
One quart tomatoes, one of water ; stew till soft ; add tea-spoon 
soda, allow to effervesce, and add quart of boiling milk, salt, butter, 
and 'pepper to taste, with a little rolled cracker; boil a few minutes 
and serve.— Mr^-. D. C. Gonkeij, Minneapolis, Minn. 

Turkey-Bone Soup. 
After a roasted turkey has been served a portion of the meat still 
adheres to the bones, especially about the neck; -drumsticks" are 
left, or parts of the wings, and pieces rarely called for at table. If 
there is three-fourths of a cupful or more left cut off carefully and 
reserve for force-meat balls. Break the bones apart and with stuffing 
still adherincr to them, put into a soup-kertle with two quarts water, 
a table-sp()(m salt, a pod of red pepper broken into pieces, three or 
four blades of celery cut into half inch pieces, three medium-sized 
potatoes, and two onions all sliced. If the dinner hour is one o'clock 
the kettle should be over fire before eight o'clock in the morning ; or 
if the dinner is at six in the evening, it should be on by twelve 
o'clock. Let it ])oil slowly but constantly until iibout half an hour 
before dinner ; lift out bones, skim off fat, strain through colander, 
return to soup-kettle. There will now be but little more than a quart 
of the soup. If more than this is desired, add a pint of hot milk 
or milk and cream together; but it will be very nice without this ad- 
dition even though a little more water be added. Prepare the force- 
meat balls bv chopping the scraps of turkey very fine; take half a 
tea-spoon cracker-crumbs, smoothly rolled, a small salt-spoon of cay- 
enne pepper, about double the quantity of salt, a little grated lemon 
peel and half a tea-spoon powdered summer-savory or thyme ; mix 
these too-ether and add a raw beaten egg to bind them. Koll mix- 
ture into" bails about the size of a hickorv-nut, and drop into the soup 
ten minutes before serving. Have ready in tureen a large table- 
spoon of parslev, cut verv fine. Pour in soup, and send to table 
hot If force-meat balls are not liked, boil two eggs for half an hour, 
cut in slices, put them in tureen with the parsley, and pour the soup 
over them; or slices of bread (not too thick) can be toasted, but- 
tered on both sides, cut into inch squares, and substituted for the 
sliced eggs.— Mrs. R. N. Hazard, Kirhvood, Mo. 



318 



SO UPS. 



Vegetable Soup. 
After boiling a soup bone or piece of beef until done, add to the 
broth boiling water to make the amount of soup Avanted, and when 
boiling again add a large handful of cabbage cut tine as for slaw, 
a half pint of tomatoes, canned oj- fresh ; peel and slice and add 
three large or four small onions, and two or three potatoes (^ome 
use a half tea-cup of dried or half pint of green corn ; if dried corn 
is used, it should be soaked). Let boil from half to three-quarters 
of an hour ; if you like a little thickening, stir an egg or yolk with 
a large spoonfid of milk and a tea-spoon of flour, put hi fiVe or ten 
minutes before taking off; this makes it very rich. Serve with 
crackers. — 3/7-8. H. C. Vosburij. 

Vegetable Soup. 
^ Three onions, three carrots, three turnips, one small cabbage, one 
pint tomatoes; chop all the vegetables except the tomatoes very 
fine,^ have ready in a porcelain kettle three quarts boiling water, 
put in all except cabbage and tomatoes and simmer for half an hour' 
then add the chopped cabbage and tomatoes (the tomatoes pre- 
viously stewed), also a bunch of sweet herbs. Let soup boil for 
twenty minutes, strain through sieve, rubbing all the vegetables 
through. Take two table-spoons of best ])utter and one of flour 
and beat to a cream. Xow pepper and salt soup to taste, and 
add a tea-spoon of white sugar, a half (;up of sweet cream if you 
have it, and last stir in the butter and flour ; let it boil up and it 
is ready for the table. Serve with fried bread-chips, or poached 
eggs one in each dish.— J/r^-. H. H. Herbert, Benson, Minn. 

Veal Soup. 

To about three pounds of a well-broken joint of veal, add four 
quarts water, and set it over to boil; prepare one-fourth pound 
macaroni by boiling it in a dish by itself with enough water to cover 
It; add a little butter when the macaroni is tender, strain the soup 
and season to taste with salt and pepper, then add the macaroni 
with the water in which it was boiled ; onions or celery may be 
added for flavoring.— J/rs. R. M. Nixon, Xeiv Castle, hid. 



so UFS. 



319 



Bread-dice for Soups. 

Take slices of stale bread, cut in small squares, throw in hot lard 
and fry till brown, skim out, drain, and put in the soup-tureen 
before serving the soup. Crackers crisped in the oven are nice to 
serve with oyster soup. — Mrs. V. G. H. 

CARA:vrEL FOR SoUPS. 

For caramel, put one tea-cup sugar and two tea-spoons water in 
a sauce-pan over the fire, stir constantly till it is a dark color, then 
add a half tea-cup water and a pinch of salt, let l)oil for a few 
moments, take off, and when cold bottle. 

To brown flour, put one pint in a sauce-pan on the stove, and 
when it begins to color, stir constantly till it is a dark brown, being 
careful that it does not burn. When cold put away in a tin cau 
or jar covered closely, and keep in a dry place where it is always 
ready for soups or gravies. As it requires more of this for thick- 
ening than of unbrowned flour, it may be well sometimes to take 
half of each. 

A few cloves may be stuck in the meat for soup ; or it may first 
be fried in a sauce-pan with a little butter, turning till brown on 
all sides ; or sliced onions may be fried brown and added to soup. 



VEGETABLES. 



All vegetables are better cooked in soft water, provided it is 
clean and pure; if hard water is used, put in a small pinch of soda. 
The water should be freshly drawn, and should only be put over 
fire in time to reach the boiling point before the hour for putting 
in vegetables, as standin^^ and Ions: boilino^ frees the cj^ases and ren- 
ders the water insipid. The fresher all vegetables are, the more 
w^holesome. After being washed thoroughly, they should be dropped 
in cold water half an hour before using. Peel old potatoes and let 
them stand in cold water over night, or for several iiours, putting 
them in immediately after being peeled, as exposure to the air 
darkens them. Before putting on to boil, take out and wipe each 
dry with a towel. New potatoes are best baked. Full-grown, fair, 
ripe tomatoes may be either boiled or baked. Medium-sized and 
smooth potatoes are best ; the kind varies with the season. Green 
corn and pease should be prepared and cooked at once. Put all 
vegetables into plenty of salted water, boiling hot (excepting egg 
plant and old potritoes, which some put on in salted cold water), and 
boil rapidly, without cover, skimming carefully until thoroughly 
done, draining well those that require it. Onions should be soaked 
in warm salt water, to remove the rank flavor for one hour before 
cooking. Never split onions, turnips and carrots, but slice them in 
rings cut across the fiber, as they thus cook tender; much quicker. 
If the home garden furnishes the suj)ply of pease, spinach, green 
beans, asparagus, etc., pick them in the morning early, when the 
dew^ is on, and let stand in cold water till ready for use. Some put 
salt in the water, but in that case only let them remain ten or fif- 

(320) 



VEGETABLES. 



821 



teen minutes, unless doubts are entertained as to their freshness (if 
from tlie market), in which case they can remain longer, afterward 
drainin^r them in a colander. Do not allow vegetables to remain 
in the water after thev are done, but drain them in a colander and 
dress as directed in the various rc^cipes. In j)reparing greens, let- 
tuce, etc., first wash them leaf by leaf in warm water, rather more 
than tepid, having a dish of cold water to place them in imme- 
diately. The warm water more certainly cleans the leaf and does 
not destroy the crispness if they ;ire ])laced at once in cold water. 
But whether washed in warm or cold water, take them leaf bv leaf, 
breaking the heads off, not cutting them. Horse-radi.-h tops are 
considered choice for greens. Pea>e should not be shelled until just 
bef )re the time of cooking. 

The proportion of salt in cooking vegetables is a heaping table- 
spoon of salt to every gallon of water. When water boils, put in 
your vegetables, and press them down with a wooden spoon. Take 
out when tender, as vegetables are spoilt by being either under or 
overdone. 

Alwavs add both salt and a little soda to the water in wdiich 
greens are co(jked, as soda preserves color ; for the same purpose 
French cookery ])ooks recommend a small pinch of carbonate of 
ammonia. A little sugar added to turnips, beets, pease, corn, 
squash and pum})kin is an improvement, especially when the vege- 
tables are poor in quality. Sweet potatoes require a longer time to 
cook than the common variety. In gathei-ing asparagus, never cut 
it off, but snap or break it ; in this way you do not get the white, 
wwdy part, which no boiling can make tender. Do the same with 
rhubarb, except being careful that it does not split, and take it very 
close to the ground. Put rice on to cook in boiling salted water, 
having first soaked for about an hour and dried off the surplus 
moisture on a large towel; or steam, or cook in custard-kettle. 

A piece of red pepper the size of finger-nail, dropped into meat 
or vegetables when first beginning to cook, will aid greatly in killing 
the unpleasant odor. Remember this for boiled cabbage, green 
beans, onions, mutton and chicken. All vegetables should be thor- 
oughly cooked, and require a longer time late in their season. 

Potatoes, Avhen old, are improved bv removintr the skin before 
21 



322 



VEGETABLES. 



bakiug, and either Irish or sweet potatoes, if frozen, must be put 
in to bake without thawing. Cabbage, potatoes, carrots, turnips, 
parsnips, onions and beets are injured l)y being boiled with fresh 
meat, and they also injure the flavor oi' the meat. When vege- 
tables are to be served with salt meat, the meat should be cooked 
first and then removed, and tiie vegetables cooked in the liquor. 

Small-sized white turnips contain more nutrition than large ones, 
but in ruta-bagas the largest are best. Potatoes vary greatly in 
quality ; varieties wdiich are excelh-nt early in the season lose their 
good qualities, and others, which are worthless in the fall, are 
excellent late in the spring. Those raised on gravelly or sandy soil, 
not over rich, are best. 

Old potatoes, ma/ Jbe greatly impi oved by being soaked in cold 
water several hotirs after pe^ng, or all night, being particular to 
change the water once or twice. Peel very thiidy, as the best part 
of the potato is nearest the skin. Cut large potatoes, if to be steamed, 
'or boiled, in four, and small ones in two pieces, and remove the core 
if defective. If to be boiled (steaming is much preferable) put 
them on in clear fresh boiling water. Keep closely covered and at 
a steady l>oil foiv at ^east twenty minutes, five or ten minutes more 
may be requisite, according to the quality of the potato. Watch 
carefully, and the very instant they present a mealy and broken 
surface remove them from the stove, raise the cover just enough to 
admit the drainiiig ofi' of the water. This may be accomplished 
successfully and quickly, after a little practice, and is far better 
than turning them into a c(jlander, thus suddeidy chilling them and 
arresting the further development of the starch, which, after all, is 
the main point to be accomplished. Drain the water off thoroughly 
and quickly, sprinkle in sufhcient salt for seasoning, cover the vesel 
closely, give it a shake and set back on the stove, being careful not 
to have it too hot. In a minute or so give it another shake to stir 
up the potatoes, throw in a little hot cream or rich milk with a 
lump of btitter and a sprinkle of pepper, cover immediately and 
leave on the stove for another minute. This last process adds 
greatly to the good cooking of potatoes. They are ready now to 
be dished whole or mashed. Some skill is required to mash them 
properly, simple as the operation may appear. The old fashioned 



VEGETABLES. 



323 



wooden maslier possesses advantages over the new ptiforated iron 
plate with handle so nearly representing the old time churn dasher. 
Mashed 2)otatoes should be dipped out lightly into a hot covered 
dish and literally coaxed into a delicate mealy heap, ir.stead of being 
stirred and patted and 2)acked and cheesed into a shapely mass. 

If potatoes are very watery and they must be used for food, a 
small lump of lime added to the water while boiling will improve 
them. More so than any other vegeta])le does this one dilfer in 
quality, according to variety and manner of culture. However the 
main crop may be raised, every farmer's wife should secure for late 
Spring use a supply of a choice variety cultivated entii-ely in rotten 
wood soil, or in soil wliere wood ashes and gypsum are tised as fer- 
tilizers. 

Tlie great point in cooking potatoes is, to take them up as soon 
as they are done. Of course it is important to begin to ceok them 
at the proper time. When boiled, baked, fried or steamed, they 
are rendered watery by continuing to cook them after they reach the 
proper point. For this reason, potatoes, to bake or boil, should 
be selected so as to have them nearlv the same size. Bes^in with 
the largest first, and continue to select the largest till all are gone. 
Be careful that the water does not stop boiling, as thus the pota- 
toes wull be waterv. Xever b(>il them verv hard, as it breaks them. 
Medium-sized potatoes, when young, will cook in from twenty to 
thirty minutes; when old, it requires dou])le the time. When 
peeled, they boil fifteen minutes quicker. In baking old potatoes 
w^ith meat, now, it is better also to halve them. Leave them in 
the water until the meat is within half an hour of being done. See 
that the pan contains plenty of drippings, and with proper heat 
the potatoes will be l^rown and crisp witliout and white and mealy 
within. They may be fried in the meat gravy, or warmed up in 
butter for breakfast. The secret of having potatoes mealy and 
palatable is to cook them rapidly. Steam until the skin cracks, 
and a fork easily penetrates the center. If not to be served at 
once, continue steaming, as they become solid ^ooner than when 
boiled. 

New potatoes should always be boiled in tw^o waters, and old 
ones are better for it. Put on two kettles of water, set potatoes 



324 



VEGETABLES. 



in one, when hot, in a wire basket, and when about half done 
transfer to the other. 



Asparagus. 

Wash clean ; cut off the white part except a mere end, piiL inio 
slightly sa,ltedboiUng Wiiter, boil five minutes, pour uff wiucr, lulu 
moie boiling hot; boil ten lo fifteen minutes, then put in a iuinp 
of butter, siilt and pepper '.some stir in a thickening made ol oi.c 
tea-spoon flour mix'jd up with cold water); cut and toast iwu or 
three thin slicosof bread, spread with butter and put in a dish, and 
over them turn asparagus and gravy. The w^ater must bo boiled 
down until just enough for the gravy, which is made as above. 

Or, cut the asparagus, when boiled, into little bits, leaving out 
whi^ ' ei.d, tnako :^ravv as ab^ve, i)ut the cur asparagus into a hot 
disil, and turn the gravy over it and serve. 

A simple numner of boiling aspar;igus is to tie in a bundle, or 
first wrap in c 'tto:i cloth and then tie, and set upright in a sauce- 
pan containing boiling water enough to reach nearly to the tender 
tips ; boil rapidly till tender ; lay a napkin on a hot platter, take 
out asparagus, drain for a moment, place on napkin, unwrap, and 
fold over the asparagus the corners of the napkin, and serve in this 
form, with white sauce in a gravy-boat. 

Or, boiled asparagus may be made cold in ice-box, and served 
with a sauce made of vinegar, pepper, and salt. 

AlVIBUSHED ASPAKAGUS. 

Cut off the tender tops of fifty heads of asparagus ; boil and 
drain them. Have ready as many stale biscuits or rolls as there 
are persons to be served, from which you have cut a neat top slice 
and scooped out the inside. Set them in the oven to crisp, laying 
the tops beside them, that all may dry together. Meanwhile put 
into a sauce-pan a sugarless custard made as follows : A pint or less 
of milk, and four well-whipped eggs ; boil the milk first, then beat 
in the eggs; set over the fire and stir till it thickens, when add a 
table-spoon of butter, and season with salt and pepper. Into this 
custard put the asparagus, minced fine. Do not let it boil, but 
remove from the fire as soon as the asparagus is fairly in. Fill the 



VEGETABLES. 



325 



rolls with the mixture, put on the tops, fitting them carefully ; set 
in the oven three mhiutes, after which arrange on a dish. To be 
eaten hot. 

Eggs and Asparagus. 
Cut tender asparagus into pieces half an inch long, and boil 
twenty minutes, then drain till dry, and put into a sauce-pan con- 
taining a cup of rich drawn butter; heat together to a boil, season 
with pepper and salt, and pour into a buttered dish. Break half a 
dozen eggs over the surface, put a bit of butter upon each, sprinkle 
^y\ih salt and pepper, and put in the oven until the eggs are set. 

Fried Asparagus. 
Blanch the asparagus a couple of minutes, and then drain it; dip 
each piece in batter and fry it in hot fat. When done, sprinkle 
with salt and serve hot. This is nice and easy to prepare. 

Bon.ED Dinner. 
Put meat on, after washing well, in enough boiling water to just 
cover the meat; as soon as it boils, set kettle on the stove where it 
will simmer or boil very slowly ; boil until almost tender, put in 
vegetables in the following order : Cabbage cut in quarters, turnips 
of medium size cut in halves, and potatoes whole, or if large cut in 
two ; peel potatoes and turnips, and allow to lie in cold water for 
half an hour before using. The meat should be well skimmed 
before adding vegetables ; boil together until thoroughly done 
(adding a little salt before taking out of kettle), when there should 
be left only just enough water to prevent burning; take up vege- 
tables in separate dishes, and lastly the meat ; if there is any juice 
in kettle, pour it over cabbage. Boil cabbage an hour, white tur- 
nips and potatoes half an hour, ruta-bagas an hour and a half to 
two hours. A soup plate or saucer turned upside down, or a few 
iron table-spoons are useful to place in bottom of kettle to keep 
meat from burning. Parsnips may be substituted in place of cab- 
bage and turnips, cooking them three-quarters of an hour. 

Beets. 

Remove leaves, wash clean, being careful not to break off the 
little fibers and rootlets, as the juices would thereby escape and they 
would lose their color ; boil in plenty of water, if young, two hours, 



32G 



VEGETABLES. 



if old, four or five hours, trying with a fork to see when tender; 
take out, drop in a pan of cold water, and slip off the skin with the 
hands; slice those needed for immediate use, place in a dish, add 
salt, pepper, butter, and if not very sweet a tea-spoon sugar, set 
over boiling water to heat thoroughly, and serve hot with or with- 
out vinegar; put those which remain into a stone jar whole, cover 
w^ith vinegar, keep in a cool place, take out as wanted, slice and 
serve. A few pieces of horse-radish put into the jar will prevent 
a white scum on tlie vinegar. Or, roast in hot ashes, or bake in 
oven, (turning oft; n in the pan with a knife, as a fork causes the 
juice to flow), and wlien tender, peel, slice, and dress with salt, 
pepper, butter and vinegar. Or, after beets are boiled nnd skinned, 
mash together with ])oiled potatoes, and season to the taste with 
salt ; add a large lump of butter (do not use any milk) ; place in 
a dish, make a hole in center in which put ni a generous lump 
of butter; sprinkle with pepper and serve at once. This is a New 
England dish, and very delicious for harvest time, when beets are 
young and sweet. 

Beet Greens. 

AYash young beets very clean, cut off tips of leaves, looking over 
carefully to see that no bugs or worms remain, but do not separate 
roots from leaves ; fill dinner-pot half full of salted boiling w^ater, 
add beets, boil from half to three-quarters of an hour ; take out 
and drain in colander, pressing down with a large spoon, so as to 
get out all the water. Dish and dress with butter, pepper, and salt 
if needed. Serve hot with vineirar. 

Butter Beans. 

With a knife cut off* the ends of pods and strings from both sides, 
being very careful to remove every shred ; cut every bean length- 
wise, in two or three strips, and leave them for half an hour in 
cold water. Much more than cover them with boiling water; boil 
till })erfectly tender. Tt is well to allow three hours for boiling. 
Drain w(dl, return to kettle, and add a dressing of half a gill cream, 
one and a half ounces butter, one even tea-spoon salt, and half a 
tea-spoon pepper. This is sufficient for a quart of cooked beans. 



VEGETABLES. 



Dry Lima Beans. 

Wash one quart of dry lima beans in two warm waters, soak 
three liours, drain, and put on to cook in enough boiling water to 
cover them; cover pot with tin lid, adding more hot water as it 
boils away, boiling rapidl}^ for one and a half hours, when there 
should be only water enough to come up to top of the beans — ^just 
sufficient to make a nice dressing. Five minutes before taking up, 
season with salt and pep})er, and stir in a dressing made of one table- 
spoon each of flour and butter, rubbed together until smooth. This 
is a delicious dish. 

String Beans. 

String, snap and wash t^vo quarts beans, boil in plenty of water 
about fifteen minutes, drain off and put on again in about two 
quarts boiling water; boil an hour and a half, and add salt and 
pepper just before taking up, stirring in one and a half table-spoons 
butter rubbed into two table-spoons flour and half pint sweet cream. 
Or, boil a piece of salted pork one hour, then add beans and boil 
an hour and a half. For shelled beans boil half an hour in water 
enough to cover, and dress as above. 

Stewed Carrots. 
Take any quantity desired, divide the carrots lengthwise, and boil 
until perfectly tender, which will require from one to two hours. 
When done, have ready a sauce-pan with one or two table-spoons 
butter, and small cup cream ; slice the carrots very thin, and put in 
the sauce-pan; add salt and pepper, and let stew ten or fifteen 
minutes, stirring gently once or twice, and serve in a vegetable 
dish. Some add more milk or cream ; when done, skim out car- 
rots, and to the cream add a little flour thickening, or the beaten 
yolks of one or two eggs. When it boils, pour over the carrots and 
serve. Carrots may also be boiled with meat like turnips or pars^ 
nips, but they take longer to cook than either. — J/r8. C. T. C. 

Boiled Corn. 

Put the well-cleaned ears in salted boiling water, boil an hour, or 
boil in the husk for the same time, remove husks and serve imme- 
diately. Corn thoroughly cooked is a wholesome dish. 



328 



VEGETABLES. 



Stewed Corn. 

Cut with a sharp knife through the center of every row of 
grains, and cut off the outer edge ; then with the back of the blade 
push out the yellow eye, with the rich, creamy center of the grain, 
leaving the hull on the cob. To one quart of this add half a pint 
rich milk, and stew until cooked in a covered tin pail, in a kettle 
one-third full of boiling water ; then add salt, white pej)per, and two 
or three ounce? butter ; allow two hours for cooking; it seems a long 
time, but there is no danger of burning, and it requires no more at- 
tention than to stir it occasionally and to keep good the supply of 
water. If drier than liked, add more milk or cream. Or, after 
cutting corn from the cob, boil the cobs ten or fifteen minutes and 
take out and put corn in same water ; when tender, add a dressing 
of milk, butter, pepper and salt, and just before serving, stir in 
beaten eggs, allowing three eggs to a dozen ears of corn. 

Bina's Stew^ed Corn. 
Shave corn off the ear, being careful not to cut into the cob; to 
three pints corn add three table-spoons butter, pepper and salt, and 
just enough water to cover ; place in a skillet, cover and cook 
rather slowly with not too hot a fire, from half to three-quarters 
of an hour, stir with a spoon often, and if necessary add more 
water, for the corn must not brown; if desired, a few moments 
before it is done, add half cup sweet cream thickened with tea- 
spoon flour ; boil well and serve with roast beef, escaloped toma- 
toes and mashed potatoes. Some stew tomatoes, and just before 
serving mix them with the corn. 

Dried Corn. 

For a family of eight, wash a pint of corn through one water, 
and put to soak over night in clean cold water (if impossible to 
soak so long, place over a kettle of hot water for two or three 
hours) ; when softened, cook five to ten minutes in Avater in which 
it was soaked, adding as soon as boiling, two table-spoons butter, 
one of flour, and a little salt and pepper. Another good way to 
finish is the following: Take the yolk of one egg, one table-spoon 
milk, pinch of salt, thicken with flour quite stiff so as to take out 
with a tea-spoon, and drop in little dumplings not larger than aa 



VEGETABLES. 



329 



acorn; cover tightly and cook five or ten minntes; have enoiu^h 
water m kettle before adding dumplings, as cover should not be re- 
moved until dumplings are done. 

Hominy. 

^ Soak one quart of ground hominy over night, put over the fire 
m a tm pail, set in boiling water with water enough to cover, boil 
gently tor five hours, as it can not be hurried. After the grains 
begm to soften on no account stir it. The water put in at first 
ought to be enough to finish it, l)ut if it proves too little, add more 
carefully, as too much makes it sloppy. Salt just beiore taking 
from the stove, as too early salting makes it dark. If properly 
done, the grains will stand out snowy and well done, but round and 
separate. 

Preserved Corn. 
Scald corn just enough to set the milk, cut from cob, to everv 
four ])ints of corn add one pint salt, mix Ihoroughly, pack in jai's, 
with a cloth and weight over corn ; when wanted for use put in 
stew-pan or kettle, cover with cold water; as soon as it comes to a 
boil pour otf* and put on cold again, and repeat until it is fresh 
enough for taste, then add a very little sugar, sweet cream, or but- 
ter, etc., to suit taste.— J/r8. S. M. Guy, 

Green Corn Pudding. 
Draw a sharp knife through each row of corn lengthwise, then 
scrape out the pulp; to one pint of the corn add one quart of' milk, 
three eggs, a little suet, sugar to taste, and a few lumps of butter ; 
stir it occasionally until thick, and bake about two hours. 

Boiled Cauliflower. 
To each half gallon water allow heaped table-spoon salt ; choose 
close and white cauliflower, trim oflMecayed outside leaves, and cut 
stock ofi" flat at bottom ; open flower a little in places to remove 
insects which generally are found about the stalk, and let cauli- 
flowers lie with heads downward in salt and water for two hours 
previous to dressing them, which will eflfectually draw out all ver- 
min. Then put into boiling water, adding salt in above propor- 

or twentv minutes over a ofood fire, 
keeping the sauce-pan uncovered. The water should be well 



:330 



VFJr. '.TABLES. 



skimmed. When cauliflovv^ers are tender, take up, drain, and if 
kirge enough, place upright in dish, ; serve with plain melted butter, 
a little of which may l)e poured over tlie flowers, or a white sauce 
raav be used made as follows : 

Put butter size of an egg into the sauce-pan, and when it bubbles 
stir in a scant half tea-cup of flour ; stir well with an egg-whisk 
until cooked ; then add two tea-cu.ps of thin cream, some pepper 
and Scdt. Stir it over the fire until perfci'ily smooth. Pour the 
sauce over the cauliflower and serve. ]\lrii)y let the cauliflower 
simmer in the sauce a few moments Ijefore serving. CaidiHower is 
delicious served as a garnish around spring chicken, or with fried 
sweet-breads, when the white sauce should be poured over both. 
In this ca^e it shotdd be made by adding the cream, flour, and sea- 
soning to the little grease (half a tea-spoon) that is left after fry- 
ing the chickens or sweet-breads. — Mr^. W. P. Anderson. 

Esc A LO !»]•: D ( ' AU IJ FLO W I Ji . 

Boil till very tender, drain well and cut in small pieces ; 
put it in layers Avitli fine chopped egg and this dressing : half 
pint of milk thickened over boiling water, with two table-spoons 
of flour and seasoned with two tea-spoons of salt; one of white 
pepper and two ounces of butter ; put grated ])read over the 
top, dot it with small bits of butter, and place it in the oven to 
heat thorouo^hlv and brown. Serve in same dish in which it was 
baked. This is a good way to use common heads. A nicer way is 
to boil them, then place them whole in a buttered dish with stems 
down. Make a sauce with a cup of bread-crund^s bi'aten to froth 
with two table-spoons of melted butter and three of cream or milk, 
one well-beaten egg and salt and pepper to taste. Pour this over 
the cauliflower, cover the dish tio^htlv and bake six minutes in a 
quick oven, browning them nicely. Serve as above. 

Heidelberg Cabbage. 
Select two small, solid heads of hard red cabbage ; divide them 
in halves from crown to stem ; lay the split side down, and cut 
downwards in thin slices. The cabbage will then be in narrow strips 
or shreds. Put into a sauce-pan a table-spoon of clean drippings, 
butter or nice fat ; when fat is hot, put in cabbage a tea-spoon 
of salt, three table-spoons vinegar (if the latter is very strong, use 



VEGETABLES. 



but two), and one onion, in which three or four cloves have been 
stuck, buried in the middle; boil two hours and a half; if it 
becomes too dry and is in danger of scorchhig, add a very little 
water. This is very nice, —i/r^. L. S. Willistnn, Heidelberg, Germany. 

(.'reamed Cabbage. 
Slice as for cold skw and stew in a covered sauce-pan till ten- 
der ; drain it, return to sauce-pan, add a gill or more of rich cream, 
one ounce of butter, pepper and salt to taste ; let simmer two oi- 
thre^e minutes, then serve. Milk nuiy 1)e used by adding a little 
more butter ; or have a deep spider hot, put in sliced cabbage, pour 
quicklv over it a pint of boiling water, cover close and cook for ten 
minutes, then ponr off walfer and add half pint of rich milk. When 
the milk boils, stir in a tea-si)Oon of flour moistened with a little 
milk, season, cook a moment, serve. 

Delicate Cabbage. 
Remove all defective leaves, quarter and cut as for coarse 
slaw, cover well with cold water, and let remain several hours 
before cooking, then drain and put into pot with enough boiling 
water to cover ; boil until thoroughly cooked (which will generally 
require about forty-five minutes), add salt ten or fifteen minutes 
before removing from fire, and when done, take up into a colander, 
press out the water well, and season with butter and pepper. This 
is a good dish to serve with corned meats, but should not be cooked 
with them ; if preferred, however, it nuiy be seasoned by adding 
some of the liquor and fat from the boiling meat to the cabbage 
while cooking. Or, cut the cabbage in two, remove the hard stock, 
let stand in cold water two hours, tie in thin netting or piece of 
muslin, and boil in salted water for a longer time than when it is 
cut finely. Drain, remove, and serve in a dish with drawn butter 
ur a cream dressing poured over \t.—3Irs. E. T. Ckirson. 

Fried Cabbage. 
Cut the cabbage verv fine, on a slaw cutter, if possible; salt and 
pepper, stir well, and let stand Wve minutes. Have an iron kettle 
smoking hot, drop one table-spoon lard into it, then the cabbage, 
stirring"" briskly until quite tender; send to table immediately. 
One half cup sweet cream, and three table-spoons vinegar— the 
vinegar added after the cream has been well stirred, and after taken 



332 



VEGETABLES. 



from the stove, is an agreeable change. When properly done an 
invalid can eat it without injury, and there is no offensive odor 
from cooking. — Mrs. J. T. Liggett, Detroit, Mich. 

SouTHEKx Cabbage. 
Chop or slice one medium-sized cabbage fine, put it in a stew- 
pan with boiling water to well c(jver it, and boil fifteen minutes ; 
drain ofi" all water, and add a dressing made as follows: Half tea- 
cup wine-vinegar, two-thirds as much sugar, salt, pepper, half tea- 
spoon mustard, and two tea-spoons saLul oil; when this is boiling 
hot, add one tea-cup cream, and one egg stirred together ; mix 
thoroughly and immediately with the cabbage, and cook a moment. 
Serve hot.— P. T. Morey, Charlesto)^ S. G. 

Stuffed Cabbage. 
Take a large, fresh cabbage and cut out heart ; fill vacancy with 
stufiing made of cooked chicken or veal, chopped very fine and 
highly seasoned and rolled into balls with yolk of egg. Then tie 
cabbage firndy together (some tie a cloth around it), and boil in a 
covered kettle two hours. This is a delicious dish and is useful m 
using up cold meats.— i¥r8. W. A. Oroffut, Xew Yark City. 

Dandelions. 

They are fit for use until they blossom. Cut off the leaves, pick 
over carefully, wash in several w^aters, put into boiling water, boil 
one hour, drain well, add salted boiling water, and boil two hours; 
when done, tiirn into a colander and drain, season w^ith butter, and 
more salt if needed, and cut with a knife ; or boil with a piece of 
salt pork, omitting the ])utter in the dressing. 

Egc; Plant. 

Peel and cut in slices the purple kind, sprinkle with salt and 
pepper, and let drain on a tipi)ed plate for thi-ee-quarters of an 
hour ; make a light batter with one egg, flour and a little water, 
dip the slices into it and fry in butter or lard. Eggs and cracker 
may be used instead of the batter. Or, peel the egg-plant, boil till 
done, then pour off the water, mash fine, and pepper, butter and 
salt to taste, put in a shallow pudding-pan, and over the top place 
a thick layer of crushed cracker. Bake half an hour in a moder- 
ate oven. 



VEGETABLES. 



333 



Egg Plant. 

Peel and slice one or two medium-sized egg-plants, put on in cold 
water, boil till tender, drain, mash fine, season with salt and pepper, 
and add a beaten egg and a table-spoon of flour ; fry in little cakes 
in butter or butter and lard in equal parts ; or cut in slices, lay in 
cold well-salted water for an hour or two, roll in egg and cracker 
crumbs, and fry with a little butter. Parsnips and salsify or oyster- 
plant may be cooked in the same way, but the oyster-plant is made 
in smaller cakes to imitate oysters. 

Wilted Lettuce. 
Place in a vegetable dish lettuce that has been very carefully 
picked and washed each leaf by itself, to remove all insects. Cut 
across the dish four or five times, and sprinkle with salt. Fry a 
small piece of fat ham until brown, cut it in small pieces; when 
very hot add cup of good vinegar, and pour it boiling hot over the 
leltuce; mix it well with a fork, and garnish with shces of hard- 
boiled eggs. Be certiMu to have the fat so hot that when vinegar is 
poured in, it will b. il immediately. Add half a cup or a cup of 
vinegar according lo strength of vinegar and quantity of lettuce. 

Baked Macaroni. 
Take about three ounces macaroni and boil till tender in a stew- 
pan with a little water; take a pudding dish or pan, warm a little 
butter in it, and put in a layer of macaroni, then a layer of cheese 
grated or cut in small bits, and sprinkle over with salt, pepper 
and small pieces of butter, then add another layer of macaroni, 
and so on, finishing off with cheese; pour on rich nnlk or cream 
enough to just come to the top of the ingredients, and bake from 
one-half to' three quarters of an hour. Rice may be used mstead 
of macaroni bv first cooking as follows : Pick and wash a cup of rice, 
put in a stew-kettle with three cups boiling water, and set over the 
fire— the boilinc. water makes the kernels retain their shape better 
than when cold water is used. When done put a layer of rice, 
cheese, etc., alternately as you would macaroni, and bake m the 
same way. 

Boiled Macaroni. 
Pour one pint boilincr water over five ounces macaroni, let stand 
half an hour, drain and put in a custard-kettle with boiling milk or 



334 



VEGETABLES. 



milk and water to cover, cook till tender, drain, add a table-spoon 
butter, and a tea-cup cream, and .reason with salt and pepper; grate 
cheese over the top and ^erve.— J/r8. S. B. T. 

Macaroni with Tomatoes. 
Take three pints of beef soup, clear, and put one pound of maca- 
roni in it, boil fifteen minutes, with a little salt ; then take up the 
macaroni — which sliould have absorbed nearly all the liquid — and 
put it on a flat plate, and sprinkle gratcii chee-e over it thickly, 
and pour over all plentifully a sauce made of tomatoes, well boiled, 
strained, and seasoned with salt and pepper. 

Italian Macaroni. 
Place two pounds of beef, well larded with strips of salt pork, 
and one or two chopped onions, in a covered kettle on the back of 
the stove, until it throws out its juice and is a lich brown ; add a 
quart of tomatoes seasoned with pepper and salt, and allow the 
mixture to simmer for two or three hours. Take the quantity of 
macaroni desired and boil in water for twenty miiuites, after which 
put one layer of the boiled macaroni in the bottom of a pudding 
dish, cover with some of the above mixttire, then a layer of grated 
cheese, and so on in layers till the dish is filled, having a layer of 
cheese on the top ; place in the oven an hour, or until it is a rich 
brown. Commence early in the morning to prepare this dish. 

Boiled Okra. 

Put the young and tender pods of long, white okra in salted boil- 
ing water in a porcelain or tin-lined sauce-pan (as iron discolors it), 
boil fifteen minutes, take off stems, and serve with butter, pepper, 
salt, and vinegar if preferred ; or. after ])oiling, slice in rings, sea- 
son with butter, dip in batter and fry ; seasoi] and serve, or stew an 
equal quantity of tomatoes, and tender sliced okra, and one or two 
sliced green peppers; stew in porcelain kettle fifteen or t^Yenty 
minutes, season with butter, pepper and salt, and serve.— Jfiss M, 
E. W.y Sehna, Ala. 

Baked Onionb. 

The large Spanish or Bermuda onions are best for this purpose. 
Wash the outside clean, put into a sauce-pan with slightly salted 



VEGETABLES. 



water, and boil an hour, replenishing the water with more (boiling 
hot ) as it boils away. Tlien turn oil* water ; take out onions and 
lay upon a cloth that all moisture may be absorbed ; roll each in a 
piece of buttered tissue-paper, twisting it at the top to keep it 
closed, and bake in a slow oven nearly an hour, or until tender all 
through. Peel, put in a deep dish, and brown slightly, basting 
freely with butter ; this will take fifteen minutes more. Season with 
pepper and salt, and pour melted butter over the top. 

Boiled ok Fijed Onions. 
Wash and peel, boil ten minutes, pour ofi' this water, again add 
boiling water, boil a few minutes and drain a second time; pour on 
boihng water, add salt and boil for one hour ; place in a colander, turn 
a saucer over them, and press firmly to drive ofi' all the water; place 
in a dish and add butter and pepper. Or, about half an hour before 
they are done, turn a pint of milk into the water in which they are 
boiling, and, when tender, season as above. Old onions require two 
hours to boil. To fry onions, slice and boil ten minutes each time 
in three waters, drain, fry in butter or beef drippings, stir often, 
season, and serve hot. 

Potatoes Roiled or Baked in Jackets. 
Wash clean (a brush Is the best implement for cleaning potatoes), 
cut ofi* the ends, let stand in cold water a few hours, put into boil- 
ing water, the laro:er ones first, and then in a short time adding the 
rest, eover. and keep boiling constantly ; after fifteen minutes throw 
in another handful of salt and boil another fifteen minutes; try with 
a fork and if it does not quite run through the potato, they are 
done (this is called - leaving a bone in them"). Drain, take to 
door or window and shake in open air to make them mealy; re- 
turn to st(n'e and allow to stand uncovered for a moment. Or, 
when washed, bake in a moderate oven fifty minutes; or, place in 
a steamer half an hour over water "kept constantly boilmg, serve 
immediately; or, wash and peel medium-sized ones, and bake m 
pan with roast meat, basting often with the drippings. 

Breakfast Potatoes. 
Peel, cut in very thin sHces into a very little boiling water, 



836 



VEGETABLES. 



so little that it will be evaporated when they are cooked, add salt 
to taste, some cream, or a very little milk and a bit of butter. A 
little practice will make this a favorite dish in any family. The 
art is, to cook tlie potatoes with a very little water, so that it will 
be evaporated at the time the potatoes are done. They must be 
stirred occa^ionallv while cookino;. 

Potatoes and Onions. 
Boil potatoes in skins, peel while hot and slice ; about an hour 
befor^' wante<l, slice onions, and let stand in salt and water; while 
peeling potatoes, put onions in skillet with a little ham gravy or 
butter and a little water, and cook slightly ; take out, put in vege- 
table dish a layer of onions, then potatoes, then onions, etc., with 
potatoes last ; add a cup of vinegar to skillet (with ham gravy or 
butter), warm and pour over. 

Fried Haw Potatoes. 
Wa^h, peel, and slice in cold water, drain in a colander, and drop 
in a skillet prepared with two table-spoons melted butter or beef- 
drippings, or one-half of each ; keep closely covered for ten minutes, 
only removing to stir with a knife from the bottom to prevent 
burning ; cook another ten minutes, stirring frequently until done 
and lightly browned. Sweet potatoes are nice prepared in the same 
manner. — Mrs. M. E. Southard. 

Fried AVhole Potatoes. 
Peel and boil in salted water, remove from the fire as soon as 
done so that they may remain whole ; have ready one beaten egg, 
and somi^ rolled crackers or bread-crumbs ; first roll the potatoes in 
the egg, and then in the crackers, and fry in butter till a light 
brown, or drop in boiling lard. This is a nice w^ay to cook old 
potatoes. 

Mashed Potatoes. 
Pare and boil till done, drain, and mash in the kettle until per- 
fectly smooth ; add milk or cream, and butter and salt ; beat like 
cake with a large spoon, and the more they are beaten the nicer 
they become. Put in a dish, smooth, place a lump of butter in the 
center, sprinkle with pepper ; or add one or two eggs well-beaten, 
pepper, mix thoroughly, put in baking dish, dip a knife in sweet 



VEGETABLES, 



837 



milk, smooth over, wetting every part with milk, and place in a hot 
oven twenty minutes. To warm over inashed potatoes, season with 
salt and l)iirter, and a little cream or milk, place in a buttered pie- 
pan, sHK^othing and jjhaping the top handsomely, and making checks 
with a knife ; brown in a stove or range oven ; place tin on a second 
dish and serve on it. Or, add a Httle cream or milk to cold mashed 
potatoes, press evenly in a basin, set away, and in the morning slice 
and frv. 

New^ Potatoes. 

Wash, scrape, boil ten minutes, turn olf water, and add enough 
more, boiling hot, to cover, also add a little salt; cook a few 
moments, drain, anvl set again on stove, add butter, salt, and popper 
and a little thickoning made of two table-spoons flour in about a 
pint of milk (a few small ones may be left in the kettle, and 
broken, not mashed wdth the potato-masher), put on the cover, and, 
when the milk has boiled, pour over potatoes and serve. Or, when 
cooked and drained, put in a skillet with hot drippings, cover, and 
shake till a nice brown. 

Potatoes in Jackets. 

Bake as many potatoes as are needed; when done, take off a 
little piece from one end to permit them to stand, from the other 
end cut a large piece, remove carefully the inside, and rub through 
a fine sieve, or mash thoroughly ; put on the fii-e with half an ounce 
of butter and one ounce of grated cheese to every four fair-sized 
potatoes ; and add boiling milk and pepper and salt as for mashed 
potatoes ; fill the potato shells, and sprinkle over mixed bread-crumbs 
and grated cheese ; and put in hot oven and brown. Many prefer 
to omit cheese and bread-crumbs, filling tlie shells lieaping full and 
then browning. 

Potatoes in Kentucky Style. 

Slice thin as for frying, let remain in cold water half an hour; 

put into pudding-dish or dripping-pan, with salt, pepper, and some 

milk — about liaU* a pint to an ordinary dish ; put into oven and 

bake for an hour : take out and add a lump of butter half the size 

of an egg, cut into small bits and scattered over the top. Slicing 

allows the interior of each potato to be examined, hence its value 
22 



338 



VEGETABLES. 



where potatoes are doubtful, though poor ones are not of necessity 
required. Soaking in cold water hardens the slices, so that they 
will hold their shape. The milk serves to cook them through, and 
to make a nice brown on the top ; the quantity can only be learned 
by experience ; if just a little is left as a rich gravy, moistening all 
the slices, then it is right. In a year of small and poor potatoes, 
this method of serving them will be very welcome to many a house- 
keeper. — Mrs. G. M. Nichols, Springfield. 

Potatoes a la Parisienne. 
Wash and rub new potatoes with a coarse cloth (avoid scraping 
if possible), drop into boiling water, boil briskly until done, taking 
care not to over do (if doubtful on this point press one of the potatoes 
with a fork against the side of the sauce-pan, if done it will yield 
to a gentle pressure). Have ready, in a sauce-pan, some cream and 
butter hot, but not boiling, a little green parsley, pepper and salt ; 
pour off the water from the potatoes and add the cream and butter, 
let stand a minute or two over hot water, and serve. 

Potato Souffle 
Boil four good-sized mealy potatoes, pass them through a sieve ; 
scald in a clean sauce-pan half tea-cup of sweet milk and table- 
spoon of good butter, add to the potato with a little salt and pepper, 
and beat to a cream ; add one at a time, the yolks of four eggs, 
beating thoroughly, drop a small pinch of salt into the whites and 
beat them to a stiff froth, add them to the mixture, beating as little 
as possible; have ready a well-buttered baking-dish, large enough 
to permit the souffle to rise without running over; bake twenty 
minutes in a brisk oven, serve at once, and in the same dish in 
which it was baked. It should be eaten with meats that have 
gravies. 

Potatoes in Seven Ways. 

Sunday, peel, steam, mash, add milk, butter and salt, and then 
beat like cake-batter, the longer the hpttn\ till they are nice and light. 
This steaming and beating will ])e found a great improvement. 

Monday, baked potatoes in their jackets: if any are left they 
may be warmed over, peeling when cold, and then slicing. 

Tuesday, peel and bake with roast of beef 



VEGETABLES. 



389 



Wednesday, prepare in Kentucky style. 
Thursday, peel, steam, and serve whole. 

Friday, "potatoes a la pancake;'' peel, cut in thin slices length- 
wise, sprinkle with pepper and salt, and fry in butter or beef drip- 
pings, turning like griddle-cakes. 

Saturday, potatoes boiled in their jackets. 

Ringed Potatoes. 
Peel large potatoes, cut them round and round in shavings, as 
you pare an apple. Fry with clean, sweet lard in a frying-pan till 
brown, stirring so as to brown all aUke, drain on a sieve, sprinkle fine 
salt over them, and serve. 

Potato Rissoles. 
Mash potatoes, salt and pepper to taste, if desired add a little 
parsley. Roll the potatoes into small balls, cover them with an egg 
and bread-crumbs, and fry in hot lard for about two minutes. 
Finely mineed tongue or ham may be added with good effect, or 
even chopped onions when liked. 

Texas Baked Irish Potatoes. 
Boil some good Irish potatoes; when done, mash, season with salt, 
pepper and butter; mince a large onion fine, mix well through the 
potatoes, put in oven and brown nicely. — Mrs. G. E. S., Galves- 
ton, Texas. 

Saratoga Potatoes 
Pare and cut into thin slices on a slaw-cutter four large potatoes 
(new are best), let stand in ice-cold salt water while breakfast is 
cooking; take a handful of the potatoes, squeeze the water from 
them and dry in a napkin; separate the slices and drop a handful 
at a time into a skillet of boiling lard, t-ikinix cai'e that they do not 
strike together, stir w^ith a fork till they are a liiiht brown color, 
take out with a wire spoon, drain well and serve in an open dish. 
They are very nice served cold. — Mrs. Jasper Sager. 

Sweet Potatoes. 
Wash clean and bake in a hot oven one hour ; or place in steamer 
over a kettle of boiling water from half to three-quarters of an hour ; 
or when almost done, take off, scrape or peel them, place in a drip- 
ping-pan, and bake half an hour; or cut in slices and fry in butter 



340 



VEGETABLES. 



or lard ; or peel and slice ^vllen raw, and fry, a layer at a time, on 
griddle, or in a frying-pan, with a little melted lard, being careful 
not to cook too long, or they will become too hard ; or drop in boil- 
ing lard in frying-pan, turning till a nice brown on both sides; or 
halve or quarter, and bake in pan with roast beef, basting them 
often with the drippings. 

Baked Parsnips. 
Put four thill slices salt pork in a kettle with two quarts cold 
water, wash and scrape parsnips, and if large halve or quarter, and 
as soon as water boils place in kettle, boil about half an hour, re- 
move meat, parsnips, and gravy to a dripping-pan, sprinkle with a 
little white sugar, and bake in oven a quarter of an hour, or until 
they are a light brown, and the water is all fried out. Add a few 
potatoes if liked. Those left over, fried in a hot skillet, with but- 
ter, ham fat or beef drippings, make a nice breakfist dish. It is 
better to dip each slice in a beaten egg before frying. Parsnips are 
good in March or April, and make an excellent seasoning for soups. 

Stewed Parsnips. 
Wash, scrape, and slice about half an inch thick; have a skillet 
])repared with a half pint hot water and a table-spoon butter, add 
the parsnips, season wuth salt and pepper, cover closely, and stew 
until the water is cooked away, stirring occasionally to prevent burn- 
ing. When done, the parsnips will be of a creamy, light brown 
color. — Mrs. D. B. 

Green Pease. 

Wash lightly two quarts shelled pease, put into boiling water 
enough to cover, boil twenty minutes, add pepper, salt, and more 
hot water if needed to prevent burning, and two table-spoons butter 
rubbed into two of flour; stir well, and boil five minutes. If pods 
are clean and fresh, boil first in water to give flavor, skim out and 
put in pease. Canned pease should be rinsed before cooking. 

Pease Stewed in Cream. 
Put 'two or three pints of young green pease into a sauce-pan of 
boiling water; when nearly done and tender, drain in a colander, 
quite dry; melt tw^o ounces of butter in a clean stew-pan, thicken 
evenly with a little flour, shake it over the fire, but do not let it 



VEGETABLES. 



341 



brown, mix smoothly with a gill of cream, add half a tea-spoon of 
white sugar, bring to a boil, pour in the pease, keep moving for two 
minutes until well heated, and serve hot. The sweet pods of young 
pease are made by the Germans into a palatal )le dish by simply 
stewing with a little butter and savory herbs. — Mrs. W. A. Crofut. 

Jiow TO Boil Rice. 
Eice should be carefully picked over, washed in warm water, 

rubbed between the hands, and then rinsed several times in cold 

water till white. Put one tea-cupful in a tin pan or porcelain kettle, 

add one quart boiling water; boil fifteen minutes, not stirring, but 

taking care that it does not burn ; add one tea-spoon salt, pour into 

a dish and send to table, placing a lump of butter in the center. 

Cooked thus the kernels remain whole. 

To boil rice in milk, put a pint rice into nearly two quarts of cold 
milk an hour before dinner, add two tea-spoons salt, b;)il very slowly 
and stir often ; cook on back part of stove or range so as to avoid 
burning, and take it up into a mold or bowl wet in cold water a short 
time before serving. 

Or, after cooking, drain carefully, stir in two well-beaten eggs, one 
table-spoon grated cheese, half a table-spoon butter, half a tea-spoon 
salt ; bake a few minutes in shallow pans. Some soak rice an hour 
or two before cooking. 

Southern Htce. 
After thoroughly washing and rubbing the rice, put it in salted 
water enough to cover it twice over, in a custard-kettle, or tin pail 
set in a kettle of boiling water ; cover the whole closely for fifteen 
or twenty minutes, until the grains of rice are full and plump but 
not "mushy;" drain ofi* all the water possible, and replace rice in 
the kettle, allowi:ig it to cook for half an hour longer, when it is 
ready to serve. The grains should be full and soft, and each one 
retain its form perf^^ctly. During the last half liour it should be 
occasionally stirred lightly with a fork, and it is improved by ^>tand- 
ing on the back of the stove a few minutes before serving. — Mrs. P. 
T. Morey, Charleston, S. C. 

Salsify or VegeTxVble Oysters. 
Wash thoroughly, scrape ofi* skin with a knife, cut across in 
rather thin slices, stew until tender in water enough to cover them, 



842 



VEGETABLES. 



"with a piece of salt codfish for seasoning. Before sending to table, 
remove codfish, thicken witli flour and butter rubbed together, toast 
slices of bread, put in dish, and then add the vegetable oyster. 
This method gives the flavor of oysters to the vegetable, and adds 
much to its delicacy. Or, after stewing until tender in clear water, 
mash, season witli pepper and salt, and serve. — Mrs. Gov. J. J, 
Bagley^ Michigan . 

Salsify or Vegetable Oysters. 

Parboil after scraping off the outside, cut in slices, dip it into a 
beaten egg and fine bi'ead-crumbs, and fry in lard. Or, slice cross- 
wise five or six good-sized plants, cook till tender in w^ater enough 
to cover, then add a pint or more of rich milk mixed w^ith one 
table-spoon flour, season with butter, pepper and salt, let boil up 
and pour over slices of toasted bread ; or add three pints milk, or 
half milk and water, season and serve with crackers like oyster 
soup. 

Cymlings or Summer Squash. 

These are better when young and tender, which may be known 
by pressing the nail through the skin ; do not peel or take out 
seeds, but boil whole, or cut across in thick slices ; boil in as little 
water as possible for one-half or three-quarters of an hour, drain 
well, mash and set on back part of stove or range to dry out for 
ten or fifteen minutes, stirring occasionally ; then season with butter, 
pepper, salt and a little cream. If old, peel, cut up, take out seeds, 
boil and season as above. 

Winter Squash. 

Cut up, take out inside, pare the pieces and stew in as little 
water as possible, cook an hour, mash in kettle, and if w^atery, let 
stand on the fire a few moments, stirrinir until drv; season with 
butter, cream, salt and pepper; be careful that it does not burn. 
Winter squashes are also cooked by cutting in pieces without paring, 
baking, and serving like potatoes; or they maybe cooked in a 
steamer, and served either in the shell, or scraped out, put in pan, 
mashed, and seasoned with butter, cream, salt and pepper, and then 
made hot and served. 



VEGETABLES. 



843 



Succotash. 

Take pint of shelled lima beans (green), wash, cover with hot water 
let stand five nnnutes, pour off, place over fire in hot water, and bod 
fifteen minutes; have ready corn from six good-sized ears, and add 
to beans • boil half an hour, add salt, pepper and two tiible-spoons 
l)utter. Be careful in cutting down corn not to cut too deep; 
better not cut deep enough and then scrape ; after corn Is added 
.vatch carefuUv to keep from scorching. Or, to cook with meat, 
boil one pouud'salt pork two hours, add beans, cook fifteen minutes, 
then add corn, omitting butter. Or, string beans may be used, 
cooking one hour before adding corn. 

Winter Succotash. 
Wash one pint lima beans (dried when green) and one and a half 
pints dried corn; put beans in kettle and cover n^th cold water; 
cover corn with cold water in a tin pan, set on top of kettle of beans 
so that while the latter are boiling the corn may be heating and 
swelling ; boil beans fifteen minutes, drain off, cover with boihng 
water, a;d when tender (half an hour) add corn, cooking both 
together for fifteen minutes; five minutes before serving, add salt, 
pepper and a dressing of butter and flour rubbed together, or one- 
half tea-cup cream or milk thickened with one table-spoon flour. 

Spinach. 

Look over the spinach, wash in four waters and take off" stalks, 
boil in a sauce-pan without water for thirty minutes, covering 
clo^elv, drain in 1 colander and cut with a knife whde draining; 
season with pepper, salt and a little butter, boil two eggs hard a.id 
slice over the top; serve hot. Or it may, when boiled soft, be 
rubbed through the colander, then put in frying-pan, with a lump 
of butter seasoned with pepper and salt. When hot. beat in two 
o hr ee t'able-spoons rich cream. Put thin slices of -'"ered toas 
rone for each person) on dish and on each piece put a cupful of 
spinach neatly smoothed in shape, with the half of a hard-boded egg 
on the top, cut part uppermost. 

Baked Tomatoes. 
Cut a thin slice from blossom side of twelve solid, ~th ripe 
tomatoes, with a tea-spoon remove pulp without breaking shell. 



344 



VEGETABLES. 



take a small, solid head of cabbage and one onion, chop fine, add 
bread crumbs rubbed fine, and pulp of tomatoes, season ^vith pep- 
per, salt and sugar, add a tea-cup good sweet cream, mix well 
together, fill tomatoes, put the slice back in its place, lay them stem 
end dow^n in a buttered baking-dish with jud enough water (some 
cook without water), with a small lump (^f butter on each, to keep 
from burning, and bake half an hour, or until thoroughly done; 
place a bit of butter on each and serve in baking-dish. They make 
a handsome dish for a dinner-table. — Mrs. S. Watson, Upper San- 
dusky. 

EscALOPED Tomatoes. 

Put in a buttered baking-dish a layer of bread or cracker-crumbs 
seasoned with bits of butter, then a layer of sliced tomatoes sea- 
soned with pepper, salt, and sugar if desired, then a layer of crumbs, 
and so on till dish is full, finishing with the crumbs. Bake from 
three-quarters of an hour to an hour. Onions, prepared by soaking 
over night in hot w^ater, dried well, sliced in nearly half-inch slices, 
and brow^ned on both sides in a frying-pan with butter, may be 
added, a layer on each layer of tomatoes. 

Fried Tozviatoes. 
Peel tomatoes and cut crossw^ise in large slices, salt and pepper, 
dip each slice into wheat flour, then into beaten egg, and fry at 
once in hot lard; serve hot. A cup of milk is sometimes thickened 
with a little flour and butter, boiled and poured over them. — Estelle 
Woods Wilcox. 

Mother's Sliced Tomatoes. 

Prepare half an hour before dinner, scald a few at a time in 
boiling w^ater, peel, slice, and sprinkle with salt and pepper, set 
away in a cool place, or lay a piece of ice on them. Serve as a 
relish for dinner in their owm liquor. Tliose wlio desire may add 
vinegar and sugar. 

Stewed Tomatoes. 
Scald by pouring water over them, peel, slice and cut out all 
defective parts ; place a lump of butter in a hot skillet, put in 
tomatoes, season with salt and pepper, keep up a brisk fire, and 
cook as rapidly as possible, stirring with a spoon or chopping up 
with a knife (in the latter case wipe the knife as often as used or 



VEGETABLES. 



345 



it Avill blacken the tomatoes). Cook half an hour. Serve at once 
in a deep dish lined ^vith toast. When iron is used, tomatoes nuist 
cook rapidly and have constant attention. If prepared in tin or 
porcelahi, they do not require the same care. — Mrs. Judge Cole. 

Tomato Toast. 

Run a quart of stewed ripe tomatoes through a colander, place 
in a porcelain stew-pan, season with butter, pepper and salt and 
sugar to taste; cut slices of bread thin, brown on both sides, butter 
and lay on a platter, and just as the bell rings for tea add a pint 
of crood sweet cream to the stewed tomatoes, and pour them over 
toast. — Mrs. S. Watson. 

Turnips. 

Wash, peel, cut in thin slices across the grain, and place in kettle 
in as little water as possible ; boil from ]ialf to three-quarters of an 
hour or until you can easily pierce them with a f u-k : drain well, 
season with salt, pepper and butter, mash fine imd place on stove, 
stirring frequently until water is all dried out. Do not boil too 
long, as they are much sweeter when cooked quickly. Turnips 
may' be steamed and finished as above, and are better than when 
boiled. They may also be sliced and baked. 

To Cook Turnips. 
Pare, slice, cut in dice an inch square, boil till nearly done, in as 
little water as possible ; to one quart of turnips, add one table-spoon 
sugar, salt to make it palatable ; when they are boiled as dry as 
possible, add two or three spoons of cream and a beaten egg, and 
serve. Excellent. 



TABLE OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES. 

1 quart sifted flour (well heaped) weiglis 1 lb. 
S coffee-cups sifted flour (level) weigh 1 lb. 
4 tea-cups sifted flour i^level) weigh 1 lb. 
1 quart unsifted flour w^eiglis 1 lb. 1 oz. 
1 quart sifted Indian moai weighs 1 11). 4 oz. 

1 pint .soft butter (well i)acked: weighs 1 lb. 

2 tea-cup.s soft butter vweil packed, weigh i lb. 
1% pints powdered sugar weigh 1 lb. 

2 coffee-cups powdered sugar devel weigh 1 lb. 
2% tea-cups powdered sugar (level) weigli 1 lb. 

1 pint granulated sugar heaped) weiglis 14 oz. 

1)^ cofTee-cups granulated sugar (level) weigh 1 lb. 

2 tea-cups granulated sugar (ieveii weigh 1 ib. 

1 pint coffee "A" sugar weighs 12 oz. 

1% coflee-cups coflee "A'\sugar les el) weigh 1 lb. 

2 tea-cups coliee 'A ' sugar (well lu^ajicd weigh 1 lb. 
1 pini best ])i(/\vi! sugar weighs 14 oz. 

1% cottee-cui)s hf -^r l)rown sugar level) wei'-di 1 lb. 
23^2 tea-cuj)s b( >t i>r;>\vn sugar (level;/ "\veigli 1 lb. 
2i>4 cotfee-caips ru'l'an meal (levels equa.l 1 (^t. 
tea-cups Indian nieal (level) eciual 1 (^t. 

1 table-spoon !W(^1! hea})ed granulated "coffee A" or best brown sugar, 1 oz. 

2 table-spo*)ns iwell rounded) of j)Owdered sugar or floiu' weigh 1 oz. 

1 table-spoon (well rounded) »)f soft butter weighs 1 oz. 
8ofi butter size of an egg weighs 2 oz. 

7 table->poons granulared sugar (heaping) equal 1 tejX'U}). 

0 table-spoons sifred flour or meal (heaping) equal 1 teii^cui^/. 
4 table-spoons soft butter (well heaped) e(pial 1 teiii-cup. 

3 table spoons sweet chocolate grated weigh I oz. 

2 tea-spoons (heaping; of tlour, sugar or meal, equal 1 heaping table-spooB. 

LIQUIDS 

1 pint contains 16 fluid ounces (4 gills). 

1 ounce contains S fluid drachms }yl gill). 
1 table-spoon contains a))out % fl'Jiu ounce. 
1 tea-spoon contains about 1 fluid dnichm. 

A tea-spoonful for brevity, tea-spoon is used for tea-spoonful in the recipes 
of this book) is equal in volume to 4") drops of pure water (distilled) at 60 deg. Fah. 
Teaspoons vary so much in size that tiier*.; is a wide margin of difference in 
containing capacity. 

4 tea-spoonfuls equal 1 table-spoon or fluid ounce. 
16 table-spoonfuls equal l^. pint. 

1 wine-glass full (common size) equals 4 table-si)oons or 2 fluid oz. 
1 tea-cupful equals JS fluid oz. or 2 gills. 
4 tea-cupfuls e(iu;d 1 qt. 

A common-sized tumbler holds about V2 pint. 

.A AVOIRDUPOIS WEIGHT. 

16 drams (dr.) make 1 ounce oz. i 25 pounds make 1 quarte]- <ir. ) 

16 ounces make 1 pound Ih.) 4 quarters make 1 hundred weight (cwt). 

2000 weight makes 1 ton (T). 

LIQUID MEASURE. 

4 gills (gi.) nuike 1 pint {\n.] i 2 i)ints make 1 quart (qt.) 

4 quarts make 1 gallon (gal.) 

COMPARATIVE VAUITE OE FUEL. 

Shellbark Hickory 100 Pig-nut Hickory 0.') AVhite Oak 84 

White Ash 77 Yellow Oak (.(» Hard Maple ..7'.!',59 

White Elm .>s Red Oak 6!) White Beech 60 

Black Birch (52 Yellow Pine •">-} ( 'hestnut 52 

AVhite Bircli 4S White Pine 42 ' 

The same species ot wood may vary in densitv and \ alue, ])eing ])e.st if grown 
on dry land and exposed or in opengrouiul. Some kinds of wood, such as hickory 
owe a large sliaro of (heir value to the heat (.f ihe eoals left afier burning 



AU(.waiii\' is tf) be imviv tor cxtraordiiiai-y (Iryn.'s.- (ir i:iii;-,r.rc iii'tin' article weif^lied or mea.s- 
in-('d, a;id t.)r dirt.'reiir si/.e.s (.[• cups atul but tlK' - an- u,-, corn-ct a- can l)e made. In 

"Liquids," tile old Frnicli measure wan -q tea-cup equal- i Iluid ounces or 1 <dll " the tea-cup 
^x-iuLr half f )i • -iz • ..« i ii.. om- in use at pres<-nt. ° ' 



COOKS' TIME-TABLE. 



34: 



Mode of 1 Time of iTime of 



Preparation. 1 Cooking 



Digest's. 



^ip})les, sour, hard 

Apples, sweet and mellow 

Asparagus 

Beans, (pod) 

Beans with green corn 

Beef = 



Beefsteek 

Beefsteek 

lieet", salted 

3^;i<-^, iresh 

iH ^rs, young 

];eets, old 

i5read,-corn 

Bre;id, wheat 

Butter 

Cabbage 

Cabbage and vinegar 

CabK>age 

Cauliliower 

Cake, sponge 

CanoT, orange 

Cheese, old 

1 hiekeii 

('odftsh, dry and whole. 

<:u:>tai-d, (onequart) 

Duck, tame 

Duck, wild 

Dumpling, apple 

Eggs, hard 

Eggs, soft 

1 



p:go s 

Fowls, domestic, roasted or. 

Gelatine 

Goose, wild 

Lamb 

Meat and vegetables 

Milk 

Milk 

Mutton 

Mutton 

Onions 

Oysters 

Oysters 

Parsnips 

Pig's lee t 

Pork 

Pork 



Pork, raw or... 

Purk 

Potatoes 

Potatoes 

Potatoes 

Rice 

8alm(jn, fresli. 
Sausage 



Sausage •• 

8oup, vegetable 

8oup, (-hicken 

Souj), oyster or mutton 

8pinacii 

Tai)ioca 

Tomatoes 

Tomatoes 

Trout, salmon, fresh, boiled or. 

Turkey, boiled or 

Turnii)s 

Veal 

Venison Steak 



Raw 

Raw 

lioiled 

] foiled 

Boiled 

Roasted 

Broiled 

Fried 

Boiled 

Broiled 

Boiled 

Boiled 

linked 

Baked 

MeUed 

Raw 

Raw 

Boiled 

Boiled 

Baked 

Boiled 

Raw 

Fricasseed 
Boiled 
Baked 
Roasted 
Roasted 
Boiled 
i Boiled 
Boiled 
j Fried 
Raw 
Boiled 
: Boiled 
i Roasted 
i Boiled 
I Hashed 
■ Raw 
, Boiled 
I Roast 
1 Broiled 
I Boiled 
I Roasted 
I Stewed 
Boiled 
• Soused 
! Roast 
, Boiled 
' Fried 
, Broiled 
Boiled 
Baked 
Roasted 
Boiled 
Boiled 
Fried 
Broiled 
1 Boiled 
! I foiled 
Boiled 
Boiled 
Boiled 
P'resh 
Canned 
Fried 
Roasted 
Boiled 
Broiled 
Broiled 



H. M. ' H. M. 



lotooO 
1 U!l 
45 

=:= 25 



15 
15 
85 
20 
2 00 
4 30 
45 

1 m 



1 

1—2 



GO 
00 
45 
1 00 



1 Oi) 
15 
80 
80 
00 
00 
10 
3 
5 



50 

1 50 

2 30 

2 30 

3 45 
3 00 

3 00 

4 00 
4 15 
3 00 

3 45 

4 00 
3 15 
3 30 

3 30 
2 30 
2 00 

4 30 
2 80 

2 30 

3 15 



30 
45 
00 



2 45 



00 
50 
00 



1 00 

'""20 

20 
30 



3 30 
3 00 
3 30 
2 
4 

I2 

\ 2 



25 

20 

1—2 00 



00 
00 
30 
30 
30 
2 30 
2 15 

2 00 

3 15 
3 00 

00 
15 



3 
3 



3 30 
1 00 I 3 00 



5 



30 
25 



1 

5 
4 
4 



00 
15 
30 
15 



20 
30 
45 
45 
20 
8 
25 
20 
00 
(X) 
t3 80 



3 15 



3 
3 
2 
1 



80 
30 
30 
00 



1 45 



1 

o 



4 
3 
4 



1—2 
1 
1 



00 
80 
00 
30 
30 
20 
45 
20 
20 



00 
30 
00 
3 00 
3 80 
2 80 
2 00 
2 30 
2 30 



1 
2 



30 
30 



3 30 



00 

35 



* Minutes to the pound. + Mutton soup. 

The time given is the general average ; the time will vary slightly witli the quality of the article. 



BILLS OF FARE. 



These bills of fare are suggestions to assist the housekeeper in providing 
what is seasonaMe for daily fare and f(^r extra occasions, rather than arbitrar}^ 
rules. They are to he varied, divided, or subdivided to suit tastes, purses, 
and events. 

FOR SPRING. 

Sunday. — Brrfikfasf. — Fried broolv-rrout ; broiled ham; eggs on toast; 
baked heans mid l)()stoii brown bread; I'ice wattles; tea, coffee, chocolate. 
DiiDirr. — L'hiricen soUi) ; Ixtiled mutton wiih caper sauce; mashed potatoes, 
hominy, r.inne'l tnmatoes, as{)aragus ; lettuce, radishes, pickles; orange short 
cake, Delmonico pudding ; hgs, ahnonds; tea, coilee. Lunch. — Cold cliicken ; 
cold mutl(jn ; ru-k ; cheese; crackers; canned peaches: })resei'vcd < )MM-ri(^s; 
dominoes ; iced tea. 

First. — Breakfast. — lj.)iled ham; raw potat(jes fried; boiled eggs; buck- 
wheat cakes with maple syrup ; pickles; cofi'ee. Dinner. — Beef-soup; ])oiled 
pork with {potatoes and cai)bage, salsify; apple sauce; catsup; pickles; 
bread; (h)Ughuuts; l>read })udding; ap})les. Si/jjper. — Dried beef; waffles, 
bread aiid butter ; canncl pears ; giuger-snai^s ; cheese; cake; tea. 

Second. — Jtreak/asi. — (.'old Ivjiled ham, fried squirrels, luim (jnielet; pota- 
toes with ( ri'.im. asparagus witli toast; niufhns, (iralsam bread, corn bread; 
oraiige.s; coifet-, tea, chocolate. Dinner. — Macaroni ^nup/ l>aked fish with 
dr'ssing and sauce; lioiled ham, roast veal; asparagus, [Mitatoes, s]>inach. 
lei luce, radishes; lemon pie, cocoa-nut pie, queen of pudding.-; cotfee. 
dipper. — Pickied tongue, pressed beef; wattles with ma})le syrup; spiced 
peaches, chow-eliow, ccjined fruit, preserves; cake; cotlee, tea. 

THiRn.~Breakt'a.<l. — Fried ham; potatoes l^oiled in jackets; radishes: 
scrambled eggs; fried musii, (iraliam bread; coliee, tea, chocolate. Dinner. 
— Veal soup; roast lamb with mint sauce or curi-ant jelly ; potatoes; aspar- 
agus, s})inac!i, k'ttuce, (unions ; Boston brown bread, bread ; pickles; horse- 
radish; ])ie-i)lant T)ie ; roly-poly pudding; ap^des. Snpper. — Cold veal, 
catsu}). piecaliili; canned blackberries; warm biscuit with maple syrup; 
sugar cakes and tea. 

1^0 R SUMMER. 

Sunday.— ^rt'rtA;/>?.«?.— Nutmeg melons ; fried fish ; boiled plover; Saratoga 
potatoes ; sliced tomatoe.s Minnesota rolls, bread; cotfee and chocolate. 
Di)iner. — (jreen corn soup; baked chicken, cold veal loaf ; mashed potatoes, 
summer s(piash, green com pudding, baked tomatoes; corn starch pudding, 
blackberry pies; peaches, melons; ice-cream ; centennial drops; white cake; 
tea and cotfee. Lunch. — (;o!d chicken and veal ; bread, cheese ; leuion jelly; 
blackberries; Minnehaha cake; leiuonade. 

FiR^T.~-Breakfast.—¥v\\\t\ fried tisli ; frizzled beef; nnlk toast; Graham 
geius; b()iled eggs; tea and cotlee. Dinner.—Mwtton suu].; roast mutton, 
currant jelly ; potatoes f-rie(i whole, asj^aragus with toast; lettuce, onions, 
radishes; rolls. Graham bread; ])ie-plant pie; sponge-cake and lemonade. 
>''/>/>('/•. —Co Id mutton with irooseberry catsuj); sweei pickles; biscuit; rad- 
ishes; gin2:er-sna])s, sj)on.ue-cake ; ice-cream. orange(l strawberries; tea. 

Second. — /?r<2r/A;/V/.s/'.— Oatmeal mush; veal cutlet>, i"ried liver; fricasseed 
})Otatoes, new onions ; breakfast toast, hot pocket-b-ooks : as})aragus. radishes; 
coffee and chocolate. Din)ter. — Gumbo soup ; roast lamb, mint sauce; fried 
cliicken; pease, string breans, })otatoes, cucund)ei-s ; lettuce, radishes; ripe 
currant ]>ie ; Bohemian cr(\am. strawberries ; lady's fingers, rolled jelly cake; 
cotfee. ;S>'pper. — Cold lamb; cucund)er salad ; i)read, strawberry short-cake 
with sweetened cream ; gooseberry fool ; tea. 
(3 IS) 



BILLS OF FARE. 



349 



TmJiD.— Breakfast —1^\iic]^hQVYY nuisli ; beefsteak: snipe on toast; sliced 
tomatoes, stewed corn; apple sauce; warm rolls; coliee, tea, or chocolate. 

< 'kr;! s')in>; nxist kuiib with captr sauce, cliic-ken j.ot-pie ; escaloped 
tomatoes, hoilod okra. hoiled corn on the c(^h, summer S(juash, i^otatoes m 
jackets; bread; api^le tarts ; })each cohbu-r, melons ; collee and tea. Supper. 
—Cold lamlK ( "inii-sauce ; lobster salad; warm Frenc-h rolls; ]»each short- 
cake, delicate cake; iced-milk and iced-tea. 

FOR FALL. 

Sunday.— y>/v^//.-r>'^-/.— Quail on toast; fricatelli ; fried oy.sters ; Saratoga 
potatoes; Ind'anVri<ldle cakes with syrup, Boston brcwn bread; cuilee and 
Vienna chocolate." —Swiss soup : roast spare-rib; escalo]H-d oysters: 

mashed p(jtatoes. turnips, baked sweet potatoes, canned corn; creani s.aw 
celery: pickles; bi>cuit, rye bread; snow pudding; fruit cake; raisnis and 
nuts; C'otlee and tea. Lunch— Canned salmon; pickled oysters: light bi.s- 
€uit;'cold Saratoga potatoes; chow-chow; canned plums; cake; tea and 

COCC,a. ^ , T r • 1 ^^ ^ 

p^iRST —7i/7v//:r;/.^f.— Oatmeal mush ; liasli and broiled liver, tried salt-porK ; 
com oysters, h;iked potatoes; Graham bread; stewed peaches; nutmeg- 
melons^; cotlee and chocolate. Dinner.— Fotato soup ; baked hsh, egg sauce ; 
mutton' pie with tomatoes; broiled pheasants on toast with currant jelly ; 
])0!aio ^outH.': stewed corii, egu' plant, stuffed (-rDbii-e, boned okra; r.o<t<m 
hrown i)rcad ; cucumber and beet j.ickles ; cotlee jelly with whipped cream ; 
marble cake; peac-h ])vramid. melons and grapes; cotlee and chocolate. 

_fSardines, jnckled salmon; cold slaw; warm biscuit and_ honey ; 
bread and cheese ; j.otato salad ; frozen peaches, melons, huckleberri(^s ; tea. 

^Ei-oyr>.— Brccl-t' 1st.— rvackvd wheat; broiled i)rairie chicken; codtish 
bal'-- pork fritters; fricasseed potatoes; Itrown Ijread ; rice waiifles with 
svrup; chocolate an<l cotlee. 7J(/^/^cr.— Raw oysters ; vegetable soup with 
lioached e-"s • r*'a^^ '-^k: chicken pie with oysters: mashed potatoes 
browned - turnips cai b fl, ,v. er. macaroni, lima beans: Kstelle pudding with 
cream sauce; pine-anpie ice-cream and cake ; melons and grapes ; cohee and 
chocolate S}'p])er.—< 'n\<\ toimue, tomato catsu]) ; irica>S"ed iv()^y^\ ..aratoga 
potat(H's; chicken salad (made of cabbage) ; cream slaw; baked sweet apples ; 
dry toast ; fruit cak^- ; peach short-cake and cream ; lea. 

Third —/^'Vvr/.-fWx^-- Craliam uvj^Ai: fried trout; pork steak ; beef cro- 
(.^^PtTes- l)oile«l' Iri^li potatoes, leaked sweet potatoes; corn rolls, bread; 
c^otleeand cocoa. Oyster -oup ; boiled white ilsh, Hollandaise sauce ; 

boiled turkey, oyster sauce; potatoes, turnips, and eg-r-plant ; macaroni with 
cheese- pickles;' rve and Indian bread, biscuit, crackeis; cocoa-nut pud- 
din- • aimles and nuts; coffee and chocolate. Sujpn:—n:.\v oysters; escal- 
oped'turkey. currant jelly ; baked pears ; pop-overs, bread; nutme<r-melons, 
cake ; tea. 

FOR WINTER. 

c4rxDVY—7?rm/:fa.s^;^.— Baked beans with pork. Boston brown bread; fried 
cTams- rin-ed ])Otatoes, apple fritters with syrup; bread; cohee and cocoa. 
j>,-,,,,;;_Oyster soup; deviled cral)s; roast turkey and cranberry sauce ; 
potatoes, carrots, turnips, cabbage, boiled rice; ])luni c.^hbler ; kiss pudding 
Scotch fruit cake: cwfTee and chocolate. c/,. -Raw oysters; sliced cold 
turkey, pickled chicken; light biscuit, rusk, crackers, cookies, cheese, almon 

tarts ;' TK>ach ])reserves, cake. -, i . • ^ ^ • 

First —7>'m//;fV7.sV.— Oatmeal mush; ve:il cutlets breaded, fricasseed tripe ; 
fried raw potat.K-s. fried onions; buckwheat cakes Avith syrup, bread; tea and 
coffee Dinner.— Uii^y oysters; beef soup; boiled fresh cod, egg sauce; roast 
chir-ken- mashed potatoes; stewed sweet potatoes, Italian macaroni, turnips; 
squash or pumpkin pie; eggless plum pudding plum preserves; oranges, 
raisins, figs; coffee. Supper.-Oystev stew ; cold chicken ;^ blackberry jelly , 
watermelon preserves ; bread, crackers; apple sauce; floating island; almond 
cake; tea. 



350 



BILLS OF FAME. 



SEC0ND.-i?/wrA/.,.9# -Pork tenderloin fried, Iia.sh; fried api.lt'.N r)r,tatoeM in 
Kentueky style ; hnekwheat cakes and syrnp, breid, sliced S.ranles eoffee 
ana ciiocolate. i^o^/^o-.— Tomato sonp ; baked beef with Yorkshire nuddin • • 
chicken pie with ..yst(^rs; mashed potatoes, hominv, dried corn and lima 
beans; cream s aw, celery, bottled cucumt)ers , ti- pnddin- with lemon sance • 
apple pie ; apples, ti^^s an.l nnts; coffee and tea. Sapper.-Co\d beer ".Heed 
picked oysters; chicken sala<i : raspberry jam ; cheese ; drv toast canei 
peaches; cocoa-nnt cake, preserve piitls; tea. tanned 

TiiiKD.— 7?/wA7'/.s-/.~I]ecfsteak, tnrkcv hash, ni-'s feet sonse- boiled nofi- 
toes m jackets; (iraham -ems. bnckwheat calces and svrnp ; coffee aiul choc- 
ulaie. Z>^/i«e/-.— l,ean suni,; boiled salmon ; smffcd ba'ked rabbit, e.^caloned 
oysters; mashed potatoes, canned corn and t..mato..s. canned i.ea^e baked 
winter sqnash : cold slaw, variety pickles, sweet i>icldcd peac Ll and 
bread, (xraham ],rca.l ; rice a])])les, delicions lemon puddii -; buttered toast • 
apples and oran...s: coffee and tea. .S.;;;;...-8teanied ovsters ; cokl t m^^^^^^^ 
S:;;;n:n:i^::;l:^'^-^^^^^ ^^^^^^^ Jelly;,inger snaps, Buckeye cakc^rSn^e 



EcoxoMicAL Break FASTS. -i.',>5(.— Ham and e-s^. liasli baked notato(-s- 
hoimny, Grahan, grms, r-.ffee. *>co«rf._Break fast's ew or is fr Gr^^M ,n 
musli. tonuitoes, i-otatoes, ap,,le sauce, con, brea.l or toast, coffee 
dii^frMi'/''^^' Spare rihs, roast potatoes, oabl-aj-a-. rice, j-nd- 

dnis, tru t. /.-Codlisli. egft suiice, meat-pie, parsnips, liorse-radisl, , iel^- 

les, bread, ci.stard p,e. r/„V,;.-J5oiled p.irk, bians i,otatocs k eens ' iven cu^^^^ 

pit sauce. Lolled beef, lima l)eaiis, Ixdled iiotatoes, .smiasl, s iced 

ton atoes, apple tapioca pudding. AV^A.-Meatle.ss b'an sou, , ro ,st 1 ^ef at'd 
potatoes, macaroni wub cbeese, apple l,uttcr, custard pie. *,rH^A -Aleatle.s 

'"'"1'*''^ oysters, cliicicen salad, liaiu san.lwicbcs dev. 
lied crabs; mixed pickles; elieese; coffee jellv with xdiipped cream basket 
of mixed cakes; ice-cream; fruit, nuts; tea, cbocolate w t i 1 i, 'd c A,^^^ 
^<.<.„„,/. Ciucken croquettes; c.ld sUnv garnisb-Hl wit!, fried o 'sters sn 
dines with s iced lemons; lobster salad; col.i Saratoga potatoes w',lm t 

Cl,';i;i/,red'c?e:a?m ^'^ '^"'"""'-^ <^ominoes ;'co:C!\'l,:col'r 

roI'J^o';^"'''''''" -Oyster soup; boiled fresh cod witl, cl- sauce- 

sS^^d'h ^ppfe'^^iL:^ ieirui-ind"^:^rV"'^^ r r^^'^^ 

turnips. de,ica,l>Vab,x,ge, can,ied\;n!raT:;s"^^^^^^ 

finS:' ^appfe 'cocoa i!ut''';'"V l''""''' "''•^ ^ P^"- -uld VKiiLld'ln'dl^^p^ ! 

Christm.vs Dinners. — Clam sonn- Ivil-^^l f^d, n ^ • 
t-,,>,u,,,. . 1 viam soup, fxiked tish, Hoilaiidaiso .sance- roast 

goes, picKled cabbage; bottled, French, or Spanfsh picklt^i • sS nn .' 
meg-melon and sweet-pickled grapes, an,i beels ; ChriCas pluirpuddTj 



BILLS OF FARE. 



351 



with sauce, charlotte-nisse ; cocoa-nut, mince, and neacli pies ; citron, pound, 
French loaf, white Mountain and Neapolitan cakes ; lady's fingers, pepper- 
nuts; centennial dro}>s, almond or hickory-nut macaroons ; coc(>a-nut cara- 
mels,' chocolate drops; orange or pine apple ice-cream; cotfee, tea, and 
Vienna chocolate. 

New Year's Dinners.— Raw oysters; mock turtle soup; boiled turkey 
with oyster sauce; roast haunch of venison, currant jelly; deviled crabs; 
potato souttle, baked turni})S, stuffed cabhaiie, beets, lima beans, dried corn, 
and canned pease; biscuit. Frencli rolls, rye and Indian bread; cbicken salad, 
cold sliced ham; celery, cold slaw gartiished with fried oysters. ])ickled wal- 
nuts, variety pickles; swr-ct picklc<l cucumbers, ])caches, and plums, spic-cd 
currants anil gooseberries; canned i)ears or strawberries; English plum pud- 
ding; chess pie, potato ]>ic\ mince ]ue ; orange soutftc, pyramid j)Ound cake, 
black cake. Phil Sheridan cake; iiohemian cream ; oranges, raisins, tigs, 
nuts ; tea, coffee, chocolate. 

New Year's Table.— When receiving calls on New Year's day, the table 
should be handsomely arranged and decorated, and provided with rather 
substantial dishes, such as would suit the taste of gentlemen. Too great 
profusion, especially of cakes, confectionery, and ices, is out of taste. Selec- 
tions may be made from the following: Escaloped oysters; cold tongue, 
turkey, chicken, and ham, pressed meats, boned turkey, jellied chicken; 
sandwiches or wedding sandwich rolls; pickled oysters, chicken and lobster 
salads, cold slaw garnished with fried oysters; bottled pickles, French or 
Spanish pickles; jellies; charlotte-russe, ice-creams, ices; two large hand- 
some cakes for decoration of tai)le, and one or two baskets of mixed cake, 
fruit, layer, and sponge cake predominating ; fruits; nuts; coffee, chocolate 
with whipped cream, lemonade. 

Refreshments.— For small evening i)arties, sociables, receptions, etc., 
where the refreshments are handed round or are served on a sideboard, and 
are of a simple character, every tiling should be eNcellent in the highesfc 
dea-ree, delicately pre])ared. and attractively served. Sandwiciies and coffee, 
chocolate or tea,\i variety of nice cake, jellies, ice-cream or ices, and fruits 
are appropriate. For a niore pretentious occasion, a simple table prettily 
decorated with flowers, and set with fn;it, lobster salami, chicl.en croquettes, 
pickled oysters, and one or two kinds of ice-cream and cake, and coffee and 
tea is quite enough. 

REFREsn>rENTs FOR TwENTY.— For a company of twenty allow one gallon 
oysters, four chickens and eight bunches of celery for chicken salad, fifty 
sandwiches, one irallon of ice-cream, two molds charlotte-russe, two quarts 
of lemon iollv. oiic light and one dark fruit cake, two layer cakes, and one 
white or sponge cake;' for coffee use f>ne and a half pints ground coffee and 
one gallon of water; fruit cake es]K'cially. and. indeed, all rich cake, shoukl 
be cut in thin slices with a keen-e.liied knife ; a small piece of each variety is 
always preferred to a plate overloaded with one <^r two kinds. 

Refreshments for a HrNUREu.— For a larger comj^any of a hundred the 
refreshments may be more elaborate: Two gallons of i)icklcd oysters; two 
large dishes of loi)ster salad ; two small hams boiled and sliced cold, five cold 
tontrues sliced thin, twelve chickens jellied or ] pressed, each dish garnished 
with s})rigs of ]>arslcv, slices of lemon and red beets, or curled leaves of 
celery, or die tender center leaves of lettuce; two gallons of bottled })ickles 
or a gallon and a half of home-made; twelve dozen biscuit sandwiclies ; tive 
quarts jelly, tour gallons ice-cream; fifteen large cakes, to b(^ made from 
reci]»es for Vich frtiit. delicate, layer, and s})onge cakes; twelve doi^en each^of 
almond macaroons and variety ]>"uffs; four large dishes of mixed fruits; five 
pounds roasted c(.rfee and five gallons water, which should be served at the 
bei^inning, and six gallons of iced lemonade to serve at the close. 

Refreshments for One Hendrei) and Seventy-Five.— Six gallons oys- 
ters; three small hams, five large turkeys, ten tongues; six chickens and 
twelve bunches of celery for salad; three gallons pickles; seventeen dozen 



BILLS OF FARE. 



buns, twelve loaves bread made in wedding sandwich rolls or in plain sand- 
wiches; twenty-two large cakes; lifteen dozen large oranges sliced, seventeen 
dozen meringues, Ih'tet ii (l(»ze.i i*ears, thirty i)ound.s grapes ; seven gallons ice- 
creani and fourgaiueis !ein'»ii it'c : cotfee made of twelve i-i iits ground cotice 
and eight gallons water; yerve coilee at the beginning, and lemonade at the 
<'lose. 

FOR THE PICNIC. 

In the "Sunny South," picnics are in order as early as April, bnt in the 
more nortiiern L.iiii.de.s sliordd never be attem})ted before the latter part of 
May or June, and September and October are the crowning months for them 
around the northern lakes, where hunting and fishing give zest to the sports. 
First,J)e np ''at liv (>"rh)ek in the morning,"' in order ro have the chicken, 
bi.seuit, etc., freshly b^ked. Provide two baskets, one for the provisions, and 
the other for dishes and utejisils, which shonld include the following: Table- 
cloth and an oil-cloth to put nsider it, napkins, towels, ])lates, cups, forks, a 
few knives and ial)le-s})oons, tea-sp'oons, sauce dishes, tin cups (or tumblers, 'if 
the_ i)icniekers are of the over-fastidious variety); a tin bucket, for water,' in 
whir-h a_ bottle r/i cream, lemons, 'jranges, or other fruit nsav be carried to the 
tseene of action ; another with an extra close co\ er, partly filled with nuide 
chocohue, w!!! -ii may be readily reheaied by setting in an old tin pail or })an 
in_ which wao r is kept boiling <i la custard-kettle; a fry ing-})aii ; a coflee-pot, 
with the a.nio-nt of j-repared coliee needed tied in a coarse, whice tlannei 
bag; a tea-pot, with tea in a neat i»a})er package ; tin })Oxes of salt, i)epi)er, 
tmd sugar; a tin b(jx for butter (if carried) ])laced next to block of ice, which 
sliould be well wrap}.! d with a blaid^et and put in a shadv corner of the pic- 
rn'c wau(Mi. For extra occasions, add a freezer tilled with' t roz.' u cream, with 
ice well packed around it, and heavily wrap})ed with carj)eting. To i»ack the 
basket, iirst put in })lates, cups, and sauce dishes carefully with the tow- 
els and na])kins, and paper if need(Ml ; then add the rest,' fitting them in 
tightly, and covering all with the table-cloth, and over it the oil-cloth. Tie 
the coffee and tea-])o:s, well wrapped u[), and the frying-pan to the handles. 
Pack provision basket as full as the law allows, eras the nature of the occa- 
sion and the elasticity of the ap})etites demand. 

The followijpg bills of fare may be picked to pieces and recombined to suit 
tastes and occasions: 

Siauxo Pirxjcs.— Cold roast chicken; ham broiled on coals; fish fried or 
broiled; sa.rdines; tongue; hard l)oiled eggs ; eggs to be fried or scrandjled ; 
Boston corn bread; l)uttere(l rolls; ham saiulwiches prepared with grated 
ham; orange marmalade; canned peaches; watermelori and beet sweet- 
pickles; eut'hered ])lums; variety or bottled }»ickles ; chow-chow; quince 
<)rj>luni jeliy; nispberry or other 'jams ; Scotch fruit, rolled iellv, chocolate. 
Minnehalia, old-fashioned loaf, and nuirble cake ; cotiee, chocolate, tea; cream 
and sugar; sail and 2)epper , oranges. 

Su.MMKR Picxu .s._c,Td baked or broi](nl chicken; cold boiled ham; 
pickled salmon; cold veal loaf; Parker House rolls; light bread; box of 
butter; -reen corn boiled or roasted; new p' )taro"S ; -Mrc'.d tomatoes; sliced 
oucundiers; French and Spanish pickles; peach and ]>ear sweet-pickles ; 
lemon or orange jelly; strawberries, raspberries or blackberries ; lemonade: 
soda-beer or raspberry vinegar ; coffee and tea; ice-cream; lemon or straw- 
berrv-ice; sponge, white, Buckeye, or lemon cake; watermelon, nuiskmelon. 
nutmeg-melon. 

Fall Picnics.— Broiled prairie chicken; fish chowder; clam chowder: 
clams roasted or fried; beef omelet; cold veal roast; sardines; cold roast 
chicken; pot of pork and beans; rusk, Minnesota rolls, Boston brown bread; 
potatoes, Irish or sweet, roasted in ashes; egg sandwiches (hard-boiled eggs| 
sliced, sprinkled_ with pep})er and salt, and put between buttered bread); 
mangoes; piccalilli; Chili sauce; quince marmalade; baked apples; musk 
and nutmeg-melon; crab apple jelly; grape jelly; black, orange, velvet, 
sponge, and three-ply cake ; combination pie. 



FRAGMENTS. 



Mother's hash does n't taste of soap grease, rancid butter, spoiled cheese, 
raw flour, boarding-house skillets, hotel coffee, garden garlics, bologna sau- 
sage, or cayenne pepper; neither is it stowed and simmered and simmered 
and stewed, but is made so nicely, seasoned so delicately, and heated through 
so quickly, that the only trouble is, "there is never enough to go round." 
Cold meat of any kind will do, but corned beef is best ; always remove all 
surplus fat and bits of gristle, season with salt and pepper, chop fine, and to 
one-third of meat add two-thirds of chopped cold boiled potato, and one 
onion chopped very fine; place in the dripping-pan, dredge with a little 
flour, and pour in at the side of the pan enough water to come up level with 
the hash, place in oven, and do not stir; when the flour is a light-brown, and 
has formed a sort of crust, take out, add a lump of butter, stir it through 
several times, and you will have a delicious hash. Or, by cooking longer, it 
may be made of cold raw potatoes, which peel, slice, and let lie in salt and 
water a half hour before chopping. If of meat and potatoes, always use the 
proportions given above, and before chopping, season with pepper and salt, 
and a chopped onion if you like (if onions are not to be had, take them out 
of pickle jar), place in hot skillet with just enough water to moisten, add a 
little butter or some nice beef drippings, stir often until warmed through, 
cover and let stand on a moderately hot part of the stove fifteen minutes. 
When ready to dish, run the knife under and fold as you would an omelet, 
and serve hot with tomato catsup. In making hash meats may be combined 
if there is not enough of a kind. Do not make hash or any other dish greasy. 
It is a mistaken idea to think that fat and butter in large quantities are 
necessary to good cooking. Butter and oils may be melted without changing 
their nature, but w^hen cooked they become much more indigestible and 
injurious to weak stomachs. 

AFTER THA:S^KSGIVING DINNER, 

a most excellent hash may be made thus : Pick meat off turkey bones, shred 
it in small bits, add dressing and pieces of liglit biscuit cut up fine, mix 
together and put into dripping-pan, pour over any gravy that was left, add 
water to thoroughly moisten, but not enough to make it sloppy; place in a 
hot oven for twenty minutes, and, when eaten, all will agree that the turkey 
is better this time than it was at first ; or warm the remnants of the turkev 
over after the style of escaloped oysters (first a layer of bread-crumbs, then 
minced turkey, and so on); or add an egg or two and make nice breakfast 
croquettes. The common error in heating over meats of all kinds is putting 
23 (361) 



362 



FBAG3IENTS. 



into a cold skillet, and cooking a long time. This second cooking is more 
properly only heating, and should be quickly done. All such dishes should 
l3e served hot with some sort of tart jelly. Always save a can of currant 
juice (after filling jelly cups and glasses), from which to make jelly in the 
winter, and it will taste as fresh and delicious as when made in its season. 

ALWAYS SAVE 

all the currants, skimmings, pieces, etc., left after making jelly, place in a stone 
jar, cover with soft water previously boiled to purify it, let stand several 
days ; in the meantime, take your apple peelings, without the cores, and put 
041 in porcelain kettle, cover with water, boil twenty minutes, drain into a 
large stone jar ; drain currants also into this jar, add all the rinsings from 
your molasses jugs, all dribs of syrups, etc., and when jar is full, drain off 
all that is clear into vinegar keg (where, of course, you have some good cider 
vinegar to start with). If not sweet enough, add brown sugar or molasses, 
cover the bung-hole with a piece of coarse netting, and set in the sun or by 
the kitchen stove. In making vinegar always remember to give it plenty of 
air, and it is better to have the cask or barrel (which should be of oak) only 
half full, so that the air may pass over as large a surface as possible. Vine- 
gar must also have plenty of material, such as sugar, molasses, etc., to work 
upon. Never use alum or cream of tartar, as some advise, and never let your 
vinegar freeze. Paint your barrel or cask if you would have it durable. 
Company, sickness, or other circumstances may prevent making 

SWEET PICKLES 

in their season, but they can be prepared very nicely at any time, by taking 
pear, peach, plum, or apple preserves, and pouring hot spiced vinegar over 
them ; in a few days they will make a delightful relish. It very often hap- 
pens in putting up cucumber pickles that you can only gather or buy a few 
at a time ; these can be easily pickled in the following manner: Place in a 
jar, sprinkle with salt, in the proportion of a pint salt to a peck cucumbers, 
cover with boiling water, let stand twenty-four hours, drain, cover with 
fresh hot water ; after another twenty-four liours, drain, place in a jar, and 
cover with cold, not very strong vinegar; continue to treat each mess in this 
manner, using the two jars, one for scalding and the other as a final recep- 
tacle for the pickles, until you have enough, when drain and cover with 
boiling cider vinegar, add spices, and in a few days they will be ready for 
use. Never throw away even 

A CRUMB OF BREAD. 

but save it and put with other pieces ; if you have a loaf about to mold, cut 
in thin slices, place all together in a dripping-pan and set in oven to dry. 
and you will find that when pounded and rolled it will be very nice for 
dressing, stuffing, puddings, griddle-cakes, etc. When to be used for bread- 
ing meats, etc., it must be made very fine. Keep in a covered box, or in a 
paper bag tied securely and hung in a dry place. It is much more economi- 
cal to prepare meats with a dressing of some kind, since they *'go so much 
further." 



FHAGMENTS. 



363 



Bausagte Toast is made by scalding the sausages in boiling water, frying 
to light brown, chop fine, and spread on bits of toast. 

Ham Balls.— Chop fine, cold, cooked ham ; add an «gg for each person, and 
a little flour; beat together, make into balls, and fry brown in hot butter. 

Corx-Meal Cake.— Two-thirds cup butter, one cup sugar, three eggs 
beaten separately, two and a half cups corn meal, one and a half of flour, 
two of sweet milk, two tea-spoons cream tartar, one of soda. 

Philadelphia Scrapple. — Mix potatoes (or any cold vegetables) and meat, 
turn into a skillet v/ith meat gravy from previous day. Stir up until dry 
and crisp, resembling a very dry hash ; serve in small deep dish. 

To Clarify Molasses. — Heat over the fire and pour in one pint of sweet 
milk to each gallon of molasses. The impurities rise in scum to the top, 
which must be skimmed off before the boiling breaks it. Add the milk as 
soon as placed over the fire, mixing it thoroughly with the molasses. 

CtcuMBEti Relish may be made of the large cucumbers. Pare and cut in 
two, take out seeds, and"^ grate, strain out most of the water, season highly 
with pepper and salt, add a little sugar, and as much vinegar as you have 
cucumbers ; put in small bottle and seal. 

Beefsteak Toast. — Chop cold steak or tongue very fine, cook in a little 
water, put in cream or milk, thicken, season with butter, salt, and pepper, 
and pour it over slices of toast. Prepare boiled ham in the same way, adding 
the yolk of an egg. 

Breakfast Puffs may be made on baking day, by taking up a little 
dough, pulling out to thickness of doughnuts, cut two and one-half inches 
in length, drop in boiling lard, and fry like doughnuts; to be eaten with 
butter like biscuit. 

Shelled Almonds are more economical for use in cakes. One pound 
of unshelled almonds only makes six and one-lialf ounces or one cone-cup- 
ful when shelled, while the unshelled are generally only double the price, 
and sometimes not that per pound. 

Mixed Sandwiches. — Chop fine, cold ham, tongue and chicken; mix with 
one pint of the meat half a cup melted butter, one table-spoon salad-oil, one 
of mustard if desired, the yolk of a beaten egg, and a little pepper; spread 
on bread cut thin and buttered. Ham alone may be prepared in this way. 

Steak Pudding. — Mix one quart flour, one pound suet (shredded fine), a 
little salt, and cold water to make stiff* as for pie-crust, roll out half an inch 
thick ; have steak (beef or mutton) well seasoned with pepper and salt, lay 
them on the paste and roll it up, tie in a cloth, and boil three hours. Some 
add a few oysters and a sliced onion to the steak. 

Mutton Pie and Tomatoes. — Spread the bottom of a baking-dish with 
bread-crumbs, and fill with alternate layers of cold roast mutton, cut in thin 
slices, and tomatoes, peeled and sliced ; season each layer with pepper, salt 
and bits of butter. The last layer should be of tomatoes spread with bread- 
crumbs. Bake three-quarters of an hour, and serve immediately. 

Lancashire Pie. — Take cold beef or veal, chop, and season as for hash ; 
have ready hot mashed potatoes seasoned as if for the table, and put in a 
shallow baking-dish first a layer of meat, then a layer of potatoes, and so on, 
till dish is heaping full ; smooth over top of potatoes, and make little holes 
in which place bits of butter; bake until a nice brown. 

Bread-crumbs for Pastry. — Many puddings that are commonly baked in 
a crust, such as cocoa-nut, j)otato, apple, and lemon, are equally as good and 
more wholesome, made by strewing grated bread-crumbs over a buttered 
pie-plate or pudding-dish to the usual depth of crust ; pour in the pudding, 
strew another layer of bread-crumbs over the top, and bake. 

Squab Pie. — Trim a deep dish with paste as for chicken pie, put in a layer 
of sliced sour apples, season with sugar and spice ; add a layer of fresh, rather 
lean pork, sliced thin, seasoned with salt and pepper; and thus place alter- 
nate layers of apple and pork until the dish is nearly full ; put in a little 
water and cover with paste ; bake slowly until thoroughly done. 



364 



FEAQMENTS. 



Beef Omelet. — Three pounds beef chopped fine, three eggs beaten 
together, six crackers rolled fine, one table-spoon salt, one tea-spoon pepper, 
one table-spoon melted butter, sage to taste. Mix well and make like a 
loaf of bread ; put a little water and bits of butter into the pan, invert a pan 
over it, baste occasionally, bake an hour and a quarter, and when cold 
slice very thin. 

Chicken or Beef Croquettes. — Take cold chicken, or roast or boiled 
beef or veal, mince very fine, moisten with the cold gravy if at hand, or 
moisten well, and add one egg, season with pepper, salt and an onion or sage ; 
make into small cakes, cover with egg and bread-crumbs, and fry in lard 
and butter. One cup fresh boiled rice may be added before making into 
cakes. 

Apple-Butter, Custard Pie. — Beat together four eggs, one tea-cup apple- 
butter, one of sugar, one level table-spoon allspice, add one quart sweet milk 
and plncli of salt; bake in three pies with an under-crust; — and, by the way, 
never omit a pincli of salt in custard and lemon pie ; and, in fact, many kinds 
of fruit pies, such as green-apple, currant, gooseberry, and pie-plant, are 
improved by it. 

Sweetie's Favorites. — Tliree eggs, one tea-spoon sugar, one coffee-cup 
sweet milk, one of warm water, four table-spoons potato yeast, flour enough 
to make stiff batter; beat yolks and sugar well, stir in milk, water, and yeast, 
and lastly flour, stir well, and set in warm place to rise ; when light, beat 
whites to a stiff froth, and stir into batter with a pinch of salt; bake like 
batter cakes. These are splendid for breakfast if set the night before. 

Potato Cakes. — Mix thoroughly with cold, mashed potatoes left from 
dinner, the well-beaten yolk of an egg; make into cakes as you would sau- 
sages, place in skillet with a table-spoon hot ham or beef-drippings, cover 
tightly, and, in five minutes, when lower side is browned, turn, remove cover^ 
fry until the other side is a nice brown ; serve hot. Make up after dinner 
ready for frying for breakfast. 

Potatoes a la Duchesse are now the most fashionable, and, if a really good 
potato is capable of being improved, perhaps this is the best method. Take 
cold, mashed potatoes, roll out and form into little biscuit-shaped cakes (a 
little flour will be required to form them, but do not mix flour with the 
potato), arrange cakes on a pie-plate, glaze them over with beaten egg, and 
bake to a delicate brown. 

Escaloped Turkey. — Moisten bread-crumbs with a little milk, butter a pan 
and put in it a layer of crumbs, then a layer of chopped (not very fine) cold 
turkey seasoned with salt and pepper, then a layer of crumbs, and so on un- 
til pan is full. If any dressing or gravy has been left add it. Make a thick- 
ening of one or two eggs, half a cup of milk, and quarter cup butter and 
bread-crumbs ; season and spread it over the top ; cover with a pan, bake 
half an hour and then let it brown. 

Breakfast Stew.— Cut three-fourths of a pound of cold roast beef into 
small pieces, heat slowly with half a pint cold water, one table-spoon Chili- 
sauce, a tea-spoon salt, and half a tea-spoon pepper. Rub two table-spoons 
flour with some butter and a little of the hot gravy, add to the beefr let 
cook until the flour is done, and then serve with bits of dry toast. Slices 
of onions may be first cooked and the meat added to them, with or without 
Chili-sauce. 

Bonny Clabber.— This dish is in perfection in the summer, when milk 
sours and thickens very quickly. It should be very cold when served. A 
nice wav is to pour the milk before it has thickened into a glass dish, and 
when thick set on ice for an hour or two, and it is ready to serve, and is 
reallv a very pretty addition to the supper table. Serve in sauce dishes or 
deep dessert plates, sprinkle with sugar (maple is nice), and a little grated 
nutmeg if liked. 

CoR\ Meal Waffles.— To the beaten yolks of three eggs, add one quart 
of sour milk or butter-milk, corn meal to make a batter a little thicker 



FRAGMENTS. 



365 



than for pan-cakes, one tea-spoon salt, one of soda dissolved in a little warm 
water, then the well-beaten whites; flour may be used instead of corn meal. 
This is also a good rule for pan-cakes, making the batter thinner. For dress- 
ing for waffles, put on the stove a half cup cream, a table-spoon butter, 
and two of sugar; when hot, put two table-spoons on each waffle wli*en 
placed in the dish to serve. 

Eggless Squash oe Pumpkin Pie. — Stew the squash or pumpkin till very- 
dry, and press through a colander ; to each pint of this allow one table- 
spoon butter, beat in while warm one cup brown sugar or molasses ; a lit- 
tle salt, one table-spoon cinnamon, one tea-spoon ginger, and one half tea- 
spoon soda; a little allspice may be added, but it darkens the pies; roll a 
few crackers very fine, and add a handful to the batter, or thicken with two 
tablespoons flour or one of corn starch. As the thickening property of 
pumpkin varies, some judgment must be used in adding milk. 

Scrapple. — Scrape and clean well a pig's-head as directed in " Pig's-head 
€heese," pat on to boil in plenty of water, and cook four or five hours — 
until the bones will slip easily from the meat; take out, remove bones, and 
chop the meat tine, skim off the grease from liquor in pot, and return the 
chopped meat to it; season highly with salt and pepper, and a little pow- 
dered sage if liked, and add corn meal till of the consistency of soft mush; 
cook slowly one hour or more, pour in pans, and set in a cool place. This 
is nice sliced and fried for breakfast in winter, and will answer in place of 
meat on many occasions. 

Fricasseed and Fried Potatoes. — Slice cold boiled potatoes, put into a 
dripping-pan, add milk, salt, pepper, and small lump of butter, allowing 
half a pint of milk to a dozen potatoes , place in oven for about fifteen min- 
utes, stir occasionally with a knife to keep from burning; they should 
brown slightly on the top; or put in sauce-pan lump of butter, when melted 
add a level t^ible-spoou flour, cook a few minutes and add a tea-cup new milk 
or cream, season with salt and pepper; when it boils, add sliced potatoes, and 
boil till potatoes are thoroughly heated. To fry, slice and fry in butter or 
ham or beef-drippings, using only enough fat to prevent sticking; sprinkle 
with salt, cover with tin lid so that they may both fry and steam. 

Welsh Rare-bit. — Cut thin slices of bread, remove the crust, and toast 
quickly ; butter it, and cover with thin slices of rather new rich cheese, 
spread over a very little made mustard, and place on a pie-tin or plate in a 
hot oven till the cheese is melted, when cut in square pieces of any size 
desired, and serve at once on a hot platter, as it is quite spoiled if allowed to 
get cold. The mustard may be omitted if desired ; and some think it moi» 
delicate to dip the toast quickly, after buttering, into a shallow pan of boil- 
ing water; have some cheese ready melted in a cup, and pour some over each 
slice. The best way to serve is to have little plates made hot, place a slice on 
each plate, and serve one to each person. 

Yankee Dried Beef. — Slice very thin, put in frying-pan with water to 
cover, let come to boiling point, pour off, and add pint of milk, lump of 
butter, and a thickening of a little flour and milk, stir well, and, just befose 
serving, some add an egg, stirring it in quickly; or, chip very fine, freshen, 
add a lump of butter and six or eight eggs, stir well, and serve at onoe. 
Cold boiled or baked beef may be sliced and cooked in the same way. Or, 
after the freshening, first frizzle it in butter, dredge with flour, and add the 
milk. When ends or thin pieces of dried beef become too dry and hard, 
put in cold water and boil slowly six or eight hours, and slice when cold ; or, 
soak over night in cold water, and boil three or four hours. Many think all 
dried beef is improved by this method. 

Curd or Cottage Cheese. — Set a gallon or more of clabbered milk on 
the stove hearth or in the oven after cooking a meal, leaving the door open ; 
turn it around frequently, and cut the curd in squares with a knife, stirring 
gently now and then till about as warm as the finger will bear, and the whey 
shows all around the curd; i)Our all into a coarse bag, and hang to drain in 



366 



FRAG MEN m 



a cool place for three or four hours, or over night if made in the evening. 
When wanted, turn from the bag, chop rather coarse with a knife, and dress 
with salt, pei^per, and sweet cream. Some mash and rub thoroughly with 
the cream ; others dress with sugar, cream, and a little nut-meg, omitting 
the salt and pepper. Another way is to chop fine, add salt to taste, work 
in a very little cream or butter, and mold into round balls. 

Potatoes a la Lyonnaise are much simpler than the name implies. Rub a 
lump of good butter over the inside of a clean, smooth, slightly warmed 
skillet, turn in some cold boiled potatoes cut up, add pepper, salt, a little 
chopped parsley, and perhaps the lea^st bit of onion very fine. Shake from 
time to time and see that they do not brawn. " Fried white " is the accepted 
slang in fashionable hotels for this very elegant mystification in the art of 
potato cooking. If, for your stomach's sake, you sliould prefer to have your 
potatoes actually fried a siivory crisp brown, drop in smoking hot lard o/uice 
dripi)ing.s (never in butter, as it scorches too quickly; warm up or sauti—fTy 
in a well-greased- frying-pan— in butter, but fry, or rather boil, in lard or 
drippings-). 

Stuffed Beefsteak is- as nice for dinner as a much more expensh'e 
roast, and it can be prepared from a rather poor flank or round steak ; pound 
well, season with salt and j>epper, then spread with a nice dressing — may use 
some of the bread-crumbs — roll up and tie closely with twine (which always 
save from the grocer's parcels), put in a kettle with a quart boiling water, 
boil slowly one liour, take out and place in dripping-pan, adding water in 
which it was boiled, basting frequently until a nice brown, and making gravy 
of the drippings; or you may put it at otice into the dripping-pan, omit the 
boiling process, skewer a couple slices salt pork on top, add a very little water, 
baste frequently, and, if it bakes too rapidly, cover with a dripping-pan. It 
is delicious sliced down cold. 

How to make Nice Gravy is a problem many housekeepers never solve. 
Remember that grease is not gravy, neither is raw flour. Almost any kind 
of meat-liquor or soup-stock, from which all fat has been removed, may be 
niade into nice gravy, by simply adding a little seasoning and some thicken- 
ing; if browned flour is used for the latter, the gravy will require but little 
cooking, but when thickened with raw flour, it must cook until thoroughly 
done, or the gravy will taste li-ke so much gummy paste. It is best to brown 
a quart of flour at a time. Put in a skillet, set in the oven or on top of the 
stove, stir often until it is. a light-brown, put into a wide-mouthed bottle, 
cork and keep for use. All gravies should be well stirred over a rather hot 
fire, as they must be quickly made, and must boil, not simmer. 

Potato Flour is an adilition to many kinds of breads, cakes, and pud- 
dings, making them more light and tender. Wash, peel, and grate into an 
earthen pan, filled with pure, soft cold water; when the water begins to 
clear by the settling of the pulp to the bottom, pour off the water and add 
more, stir pulp with hand, rub through a hair sieve, pour on more wat^r, 
let stand until clear, pour off and renew again, repeating several times until 
the farina is perfectly white and the water clear. The air darkens it, and it 
must be kept in the water as much as possible during the process. Sj)read 
the prepared farina before the fire, covering with p^aper to keep it from dust; 
when dry, pulverize it, sift, bottle, and cork tightly. Potato jelly may be 
made by pouring hoUin'g water on the flour, and it will soon change into a 
jeily ; flavor and sweeten to t^^-ste. 

Stews, if properly prepared, are very palatable. If made from fresh meat, 
they should be immersed in boiling water at first, and then placed where it 
will simmer slowly until done; season, add thickening, and flavor with fin 
OJiion, or a tea-spoon of curry powder ; or prepare a poor beefsteak by first 
trimming off" all the fat and cutting in convenient pieces, fry in butter or 
drippings to a nice brown on both sides, then add a little sliced onion, car- 
rots, or turnips, sea.soning, a tea-spoon Chili-sauce, and one pint soup stocky 
or water ; stew gently two or three hours^ skim off any grease, and stir in a 



FRAGMENTS. 



367 



little flour mixed with milk. To make a stew of cold meat, first make the 
gravy of stock, add a fried sliced onion, pepper and salt, and a tea-spoon 
catsup; let it boil, and set aside to cool; when nearly cold, put in tliinly- 
cut slices of cold meat, and a few slices cold potatoes, and let heat grad- 
ually until it comes to the boiling point; serve with bread cut in dice and 

fried. , . » , , 

Meat Pie.— Put a layer of cold roast beef or other bits of meat, chopped 
very fine, in bottom of dish, and season with pepper and salt, then a layer 
of powdered crackei-s, with bits of butter and a little milk, and thus place 
alternate lavers until dish is full ; wet well with gravy or broth, or a littte 
warm water^ spread over all a thick layer of crackers which have been sea- 
soned with salt and mixed with milk and a beaten egg or two ; stick bits of 
butter thickly over it, cover with a tin pan, and bake half to three-quarters 
of an hour;Vemove cover ten minutes before serving, and brown. Make 
moister if of veal. Or, another way of making the pie is to cover any bits or 
bones, rejected in chopping, with nearly a pint of cold water, and let them 
simmer tor an hour or more ; strain and add a chopi>ed onion, three table- 
spoons Chili-sauce, a level table-spoon of salt, and the chopped meat; let 
simmer a few minutes, thicken with a table-spoon of flour mixed in water, 
let boil once, take off and let cool ; put a layer of this in a pudding-dish, 
then a laver of sliced hard-boiled eggs and a few slices from cold boiled pota- 
toes, then the rest of the meat, then eggs, etc. ; cover with pie-crust or a 
baking-powder crust, make an opening in the center, and bake forty min- 
utes. 

To Stuff a Ham, wash and scrape the skin till very white, cut out a piece 
from thick part (use for frying), leaving the skin on the ham as far as possible, 
as it makes a ceasing for the stuffing ; put in a boiler and steam for three hours ; 
take out and score in thin slices all around the skin ; fill the space cut out with 
a stuthng made of bread-crumbs, same as for poultry, only not quite so rich, 
seasoned rather highly with pepper and sage ; wrap around a strip of cotton 
cloth to keep in place, and bake in the stove one and a half hours, turning so 
as to brown all sides nicely. The last half hour sift lightly with powdered 
sugar and cinnamon. (Some peel off the skin after steaming, stuff and roast 
as before.) What remains after once serving is delicious sliced down cold. 
The first we ever ate was at a thanksgiving dinner, cooked in a Southern 
kitchen, bv an old-fashioned fire-place, in an iron bake-oven, and the savory 
flavor lingers still in our memory. Nicely cured boiled ham is a never-fail- 
ing source of supi)lv, from which quite a variety of dishes may be prepared. 

Grated Ham is one of the nicest relishes for supper or lunch, or for sand- 
wiches. Cut a good-sized piece from the thickest portion of a boiled ham, 
trim off the fat, grate the lean part, and put in the center of a platter ; slice 
some tiny slips of the fat and place around the edge, together with some ten- 
der hearts of lettuce-heads, and serve for supper or lunch. 

To economize the scraps left from boiled ham, chop fine, add some of the 
fat also chopped, and put in a baking-plate, first a layer of bread-crumbs, 
then a laver of mixed fat and lean, then another layer of crumbs, and so on 
till all is used, putting a few bits of fat over the top; pour over it a little 
water, or a dressing of some kind, and set in oven till a nice brown. This is 
delicious for breakfast, or for a "picked up dinner," after having made a 
soup from the bone, well cracked and simmered for three hours with a few 
sliced potatoes and rice, or dried corn and beans which have first been soaked 
and parboiled. In boiling hams, always select an old ham ; for broiling, one 
recently cured. After boiling and skinning a ham, sprinkle well with sugar 
and brown in oven. 

The Cake of Fat and Drippings is as necessary in any family as the 
care of last year's garden seeds or the " Family Record." Especially wlien 
much meat is used, there is a constant accumulation of trimmings of fat, 
drippings from meats, etc., which should be tried out once in two or three 
days in "summer— in winter once a week will do. The fat which rise^ after 



368 



FRAGMENTS, 



bailing beef, pork, and poultry, is used for shortening or frying. Cut up in 
small pieces, put in skillet, cover, try out slowly, stir occasionally, and skim 
well ; add the cakes of fat saved from the top of meat liquor, slice a raw 
potato and cook in it to clarify it (some add a pinch of soda), strain all tlic 
clear part into a tin can or stone jar, or pour over drippings a quart of boil- 
ing water and strain through muslin or a fine sieve, let cool, take out tlie 
cake which forms on the top, scrape the refuse from the bottom, pour again 
into a skillet and heat until all the water is out, then pour into a jar, and 
you will find it very nice to use either alone or with butter and lard in fry- 
ing potatoes, doughnuts, etc. The leaf fat of mutton should always be tried 
out by itself, and 'used for chapped hands and such purposes^ The fat 
which is not nice enough for any of the above uses, should be tried out and 
phiced in a jar, kettle, or soft 'wood cask of strong lye, to which all soap 
grease should be consigned. Remember that the fat ^from "boiling ham or 
from boiling meats with vegetables is never fit for cooking purposes, but 
siiould be thrown into the soa]^ grease. After skinning and trimming the 
boiled liam, the fat which remains may be tried out and used for drippings, 
and is as sweet as butter. Observe never to use for this soap grease lean 
meat or raw fat. Keep a stick with which to stir occasionally, and it will 
need but little boiling to make the best of soft soap. 

Mother has many other valuable ideas on how to stop the numberless 
little "leaks," wdiich keep many a family in want, while a little care and 
economy in these minor details would insure a fair competenc\^ ; but she 
thinks it better to have the ideas she has already given thoroughly digested 
before clogging them with others. She says a neat clean home, a tidy table, 
and well cooked palatable meals, are safeguards against the evils of the ale- 
house, the liquor saloon, and the gambling-table. So that we may, with our 
frying-pans and soup-kettles, wage a mighty war against intemperance, for 
seldom is a well-fed man a drunkard ; and thus our attempts at palatable and 
economical cooking may "kill two birds with one stone." 

By the way, she has just taken up a paper from which she reads this item 
by Prof. Blot : " Wasting is carried on so far and so extensively in American 
kitchens that it will soon be one of the common sciences." "Just as I told 
you," says mother, as she folds her hands complacently together, looks down 
at the bright figures of the carpet, and repeats in her slow-measured w^ay : 
"After all, whether we save or spend, the life is more than meat, and the 
body more than raiment." 



HOUSEKEEPING. 



Housekeeping, whatever may be the opinion of the butterflies of the period, 
is an accomplishment in comparison to which, in its bearing on woman's rela- 
tion to real life and to the family, all others are trivial. It comprehends 
all that goes to make up a well-ordered home, where the sweetest relations 
of life rest on firm foundations, and the purest sentiments thrive. It is an 
accomplishment that may be acquired by study and experiment, but the 
youn- and inexperienced housekeeper generally reaches success only through 
great tribulation. It ought to be absorbed in girlhood, by easy lessons taken 
between algebra, music and painting. If girls were taught to take as much 
genuine pride in dusting a room well, hanging a curtain gracefully, or broiling 
a steak to a nicetv, aii thev feel when they have mastered one of Mozart's or 
Beethoven's grand symphonies, there would be fewer complaining husbands 
and unhappy wives. The great lesson to learn is that work welhdone is 
robbed of its curse. The woman who is satisfied only with the highest per- 
fection in her work, drops the drudge and becomes the artist. There is no 
dignity in slighted work ; but to the artist, no matter how humble his calling, 
belongs the honor which is inseparable from all man's struggles after per- 
fection Ko mother, who has the happiness of her daughter at heart, will 
neglect to teach her first the duties of the household ; and no daughter who 
a^spires to be queen at home and in her circle of friends, can afford to remain 
ignorant of the smallest details that contribute to the co nfort, the peace and 
the attractiveness of home. There is no luck in housekeeping, however it 
may seem. Every thing works by exact rule, and even with thorough knowl- 
edge eternal vigilance is the price of success. There must be a place for 
every thing and every thing in its place, a time for every thing and every thing 
in its time, and ^' patience, patience," must be written in glowing capitals all 
over the walls. The reward is sure. Your husband may admire your grace 
and ease in society, your wit, your school-day accomplisliments of music and 
painting but all in perfection will not atone for an ill-ordered kitchen, sour 
bread muddv coffee, tough meats, unpalatable vegetables, indigestible pastry, 
and the whole train of horrors that result from bad housekeeping; on the 
other hand, success wins gratitude and attachment in the home circle, and 
adds luster to the most brilliant intellectual accomplishments. 

One of the first ideas the young housekeeper should divest herself of is, that 
because she is able, or expects some time to be able, to keep servants, it is 
therefore unnecessary to understand liousehold duties, and to bear their 
responsibility. " Girls" are quick to see and note the ignorance or the imja- 
pacity of the mistress of the house, and few are slow to take whatever ad- 
^ (369) 



370 



HOUSEKEEPIJS'G. 



vantage it brings them, but the capacity of a mistress at once establishes 
discipline. The model house should not be large, nor too fine and preten- 
tious for daily use. The mistress of many a fine mansion is the veriest 
household drudge. A great house, with its necessary retinue of servants, is 
not in keeping with the simplicity of a republic where trained servants are 
not known, and is seldom pleasant for the family or attractive to friends. 
Furniture should be selected for comfort rather tlian show. Most modern 
chairs put their occupants to torture, and throw them into attitudes any tiling 
but graceful. Comfort<able chairs should have broad seats, and a part at least, 
low seats for women and children. Nothing is more out of taste and " sho<idy" 
tlian to crowd rooms with furniture, no matter how rich or elegant it may 
be. Nor is it by any means necessary to have things in suites; variety is pref- 
erable, and each room, especially, should have an individuality of its own. 
Just now the "Eastlake " style is in high favor, and perhaps there is danger 
of too strong a reaction from the •* modern styles," most of which, howewr, 
are a hap-hazard collection of styles, without any unity of idea in them. 
The "Eastlake" is, in the main, a protest against the falsehoods and shams 
of modern fine furniture, and so far it is a real reform. In a table, for exam- 
ple, we usually have a foundation of pine, put together mostly with glue ; 
this is covered with a veneer of mahogany, walnut, or other wood, and orna- 
mented with carvings, which may mean something or nothing, and which 
are glued to the work. In a few years the pine framework warps and shrinks 
out of shape, the veneer peels, the carving gets chipped, and the whole be- 
comes " shabby genteel." Eastlake and his followers would have the table 
honest, and be throughout w^hat it appears to be on the surface, hence the 
table is made solid ; and if a costly wood can be afforded— well ; if not, take 
a cheaper wood, but let the table be just what it pretends to be; if braces or 
bars arc needed for strength, let them show, ajid indicate why they are used ; 
and if ornament is desirable, let it be worked in the material, and not glued 
on. A table of this kind will last, and may serve for several generations. 
Finding that our ancestors of a few centuries ago understood the matter of 
furniture better than the cabinet-makers of the present, Eastlake and the 
others reproduced many of the styles of bygone times, and with some deakrs 
"Eastlake " is used for antique. But the matter does not depend so much 
upon antiquity of style, as solidity, honesty, and appropriateness. Sets are 
made of plain woods, such as ash and walnut, inlaid with procelain tiles, and 
ornamented with old-fashioned brass rings and handles. They are valued at 
from thirty to two hundred and fifty dollars. Bedroom sets of French and 
English walnut, with inlaid woods, gilt and bronze ornaments, and varie- 
gated marbles, are sold from thirty-five to fifteen hundred dollars. Parior 
sets of rich, carved woods, and satin, damask, cashmere, brocade, and tapestrj' 
coverings, etc., range in price from one hundred to twelve hundred dollars. 
Ebony cabinets inlaid with ivory and richly ornamented, are worth from 
two to eighteen hundred dollars. Marquetry tables, work tables, library 
tables, Oriental chairs, lounges, easels, music racks, etc., of rich material 
and design, are valued at from ten to one hundred and fifty dollars. The 



HOUSEKEEPING. 



371 



principal woods used are walnuts of various kinds, ash, bird's-eye maple, 
satinwood and kingwood. Kingwood is almost crimson in color. Book- 
cases are of all prices from twenty to fourtt^en hundred dollars, and side- 
boards from seventy-live to one thousand dollars. It is a good rule in select- 
ing furniture, not to buy any thing not actually needed, to buy the best of 
its kind, and to pay cash or not buy. Never get any thing because some one 
else has it, and do not be afraid to wait for bargains. AVise young house- 
keepers buy furniture in single pieces or small lots, as they have means, 
rather than expend more than they can afford in entire sets, which are really 
less attractive. 

Carpets should, as a rule, be of small patterns. The stoves— if grates or 
tire-places are not used— should be of the kind that may be thrown open or 
closed at pleasure. If a furnace is used, great care must be taken that the 
rooms are not kept too hot in winter, and that tliere is most thorough venti- 
lation, as the health of the family depends as much on the quality of the air 
they breathe as the food they eat. To waste heat is not so bad as to waste 
health and vigor, and fuel is always cheaper, on the score of economy, than 
doctors' bills. In furnace-heated houses — and the furnace seems to be accepted 
as the best heater, though apparatus for steam and hot water seems likely to 
be so perfected as to supplant it by furnishing a milder and more agreeable 
heat, entirely free from noxious gases — there should always be grates or fire- 
places in living or sleeping rooms; and whenever the furnace heat is turned 
on, there should be a little fire, at least enough to start the column of air in 
the chimney and secure ventilation. It is a common mistake to buy too 
small a furnace or other heating apparatus. This ought to be ample for the 
coldest weather, so that ordinarily it need not be kept up to its full capacity. 
When a furnace is heated too hot, the little particles of dust afloat in the air 
are charred, and the air has a burnt flavor, as unwholesome as it is disagree- 
able. Without fire, chimneys are apt to draw down a current of cold air. 
If there are no grates or fire-places, do not rely on airing rooms from the 
halls, but throw open the windows and take in the outside air. This is 
especially necessary when a room is used as a study, or for an invalid. The 
air from the halls, although cold, is not pure. House-plants will not thrive 
in furnace-heated houses where gas is burned, and human beings, especially 
the young and delicate, need quite as pure air as plants. In a study, or 
other room much occupied, the windows may be dropped during meals, and 
the room warmed anew before it is needed again. There must also be plenty 
of sunlight, floods of it in every room, even if the carpets do fade ; and the 
housekeeper must be quick to note any scent of decay from vegetables or 
meats in the cellar, or from slops or refuse carelessly thrown about the prem- 
ises. Many a case of fatal diphtheria or typhoid fever may be traced directly 
to the noxious vapors arising from decaying matter in a cellar, the outside of 
which is fair to look upon, while the parlors and living rooms are kept with 
perfect neatness. Such houses are whited sepulchers, and the inmates aie 
doomed to pay the penalty of ignorance or carelessness. Every room must be 
clean and sweet* In sickness, care in all these respects must be doubled. In 



372 



HOUSEKEEPING, 



damp and chill autumn and spring days, a little fire is comfortable morning 
and evening. The food for the family must be fresh to be wholesome, and it 
is economy to buy the best as there is less waste in it. No housekeeper ought 
to be satisfied with any but the very best cooking, without which the most 
wholesome food is unpalatable and distressing; and no considerations of 
economy should ever induce her to place on the table bread with the slightest 
sour tinge, cake or pudding in the least heavy or solid, or meat with the 
slightest taint. Their use means disease and costly doctor's bills, to say noth- 
ing of her own loss of repute as an accomplished housekeeper. If children 
and servants do work improperly, she should quietly insist on its being done 
correctly, and in self-defense they will soon do it correctly without supervis- 
iosn. Order and system mean the stopping of waste, the practice of economy 
and additional means to expend for the table and for the luxuries and ele- 
gancies of life— things for which money is well expended. It requires good 
food to make good muscle and good brain, and the man or woman who 
habitually sits down to badly cooked or scanty dinners, fights the battle of 
life at a great disadvantage. 

SWEEPING AND DUSTING. 

The sweeping and dusting of a room seems simple enough, but is best 
done systematically. "Dusters," made of old prints, with which to cover 
books, statuettes, and such articles as are difficult to dust, and larger ones 
to cover beds, are indispensable in sweeping and dusting. " Carpet sweepers" 
are only fit for daily use, when thorough work is not required, a thorough 
sweeping once or twice a week sufficing even the tidiest of housekeepers. 
Before sweeping open the blinds and let in the light, and open the windows 
if it is not storming or too windy. Look on the ceiling for cobwebs, and 
sprinkle the carpet over with moistened bran, salt, damp coffee-grounds, or 
tea-leaves. Clean the corners and edges with a sharp-pointed stick and stiff 
whisk-broom. Brush down with the feather-duster all picture-cords, frames, 
aiid curtains, and remove all cob-webs with a broom about which a towel has 
been pinned, going through all rooms before removing the towel; then clear 
one corner of furniture and begin sweeping toward the center with a short, 
light stroke, going slowly and carefully so as to raise no dust, and drawing, 
not pushing, the broom. The second time over, increase the length and force 
ol the stroke, and the third, brush with long and vigorous strokes, using 
care as the dirt at the center of the room is approached. In this way it will 
take twenty minut<3s to sweep a large room, but it will be clea7i, and the car- 
pet will wear, bright and fresh, much longer than if the dirt were allowed to 
grind out the fabric. After the sweeping remove the "dust^'rs" carefull-, 
carrying them out of doora to shake, and rub, not simply wipe, off the 
furniture and other articles with a clean, soft, cotton clotli or an old silk 
handkerchief, or, better, a soft dusting-towel with fleecy surface which is sold 
expressly for this purpose, folding the dust in as it soils the cloth, and when 
it IS filled with dust, shake thoroughly out of doors. Managed in this way, 
curtains, furniture and carpets will never be loaded with dust, but will re- 
ir^in bright, clean and fresh from one year's hou^e-cleaning to another's. If 



HO USEKEEPING. 



373 



any spot of dust is too fimily fixed, wash in luke-warni soap-suds, and im- 
mediately rub dry with chamois-skin. If there is open-work carving, draw 
the cloth through, or dust with a paint-brush ; and it will be found more con- 
venient to blow out some of the places which are difficult to reach, for which 
purpose a small pair of bellows may be used. To clean and dust a piano, 
use half a yard best canton-flannel with a nap free from all specks and grit, 
brushing lightly over to remove the dust ; if there are finger-marks or spots, 
rub up and down over them, always keeping the nap next to the instrument. 
Dust under the wires may Ije blown out with a pair of bellows. Keep tlie 
piano closed at night and in damp weather; open on bright days, and if pos- 
sible let the sun shine directly upon the keys, as the light will keep them 
from turning yellow. Tune every spring and fall. As a last finishing touch 
to the rearranging of the parlor, leave late papers, magazines, a volume of 
poetry, or a stereoscope and views, where they will be readily picked up by 
callers. 

THE SITTING-ROOM. 

Tlie sitting-room should be the pleasantest, because most used, of all in the 
house. Do not put down a Brussels carpet here, because it is too hard to 
sweep and holds too much dust. To prevent moths under the carpets, grind 
black pepper coarsely, mix with camphor-gum, and strew thickly about the 
edges and wherever they are to be found. To clean the oil-cloth, use warm 
water without soap, or, what is much better, milk and water. By keeping 
mats at the doors it will only be necessary to sweep the sitting-room thor- 
oughly once a week, but occasionally, when very dusty, it may be cleaned by 
setting a pail of cold water by the door, wet the broom in it, knock off the 
drops, sweep a yard or so, then wash the broom as before, and sweep again, 
being careful to shake all the drops off the broom, and not to sweep far at a 
time. If done with care the carpet will be very nicely cleaned, and the 
quantity of dirt in the water will be surprising. The water must be changed 
several times. Snow sprinkled on and swept off before it has had time to 
melt (be careful to have rooms cool), is also nice for renovating a soiled carpet. 
A scrap bag hung on the end of the sewing-machine, for storing all bits of 
cloth and ravelings, and ends of thread, will save much sweeping. In sum- 
mer, wire doors and mosquito-nettings in the windows will keep flies out, and 
at the same time admit the air. Washing windows and wiping off doors once a 
week after sweeping, keeps all tidy. To remove finger-marks, which are con- 
stantly appearing on doors about the nobs, use a damp cloth as soon as they 
are observed. 

THE BED-ROOM. 

The family bed-room should be on the first floor if possible, if the house 
is properly built and there is no dampness. Matting is better for the floor 
than carpet, l^ecause freer from dust, and this is the room used in case of 
sickness. If made properly it will wear for several years. Canton mattings 
are made on boats in pieces about two yards long, and afterward joined on 
shore into pieces of fifty yards. It is easy to see where these short pieces 
are joined ; after cutting into lengths, first sew these places across and across 



374 



HOUSEKEEPING. 



on the wrong side, then sew the breadths together and tack down like a 
carpet. Matting should never be washed with any thing except moderately- 
warmed salt and water, in the proportion of a pint of salt to a half pail of 
soft water. Dry quickly with a soft cloth. A bed-room matting should be 
washed twice during the season ; a room much used, oftener. In this room 
there should be a medicine closet, high above the reach of children, where 
are kept camphor, hot drops, mustard, strips of old linen, etc., for sudden 
sickness or accident. There should also be a large closet, a part of which is 
especially set apart for children's use, with low hooks where they may hang 
their clothes, a box fur stockings, a bag for shoes, and other conveniences, 
which will help to teach them system and order. The bedding should be 
the best tliat can be afforded. The inner husks of corn make a good under- 
bed. Oat straw is also excellent. Hair mattresses are best and, in the end, 
most economical. Mattresses of vSpanish moss are cheaper than hair, but 
soon mat down. Those made of coarse wool are objectionable at first on 
account of the odor, but are serviceable and less costly than hair. When 
the woven-wire bed is used, a light mattress is all that is needed; and thi.-^ 
combination makes the healthiest and best bed, because it affords the most 
complete exposure of the bedding to air. The best covering is soft woolen 
blankets. Comforters made of cotton should be used with great caution, as 
they need to be frequently exposed to sun and air. The best comforter is 
made of delaines, wliich may be partly worn, with wool instead of cotton 
quilted in. Beds are almost always made up too early. The thrifty house- 
keeper likes to have rooms put to rights in the morning, but it brings up the 
old adage of the white glove " which "hides a dirty hand." The bed should 
lie open for several hours every morning, and at least once a week all the 
bedding should be thoroughly aired. Air pillows in wind, but not in sun. 

THE GUEST-CHAMBER. 

The bed of the guest-chamber, as well as in all sleeping-rooms, should 
stand so that when one opens the eyes in the morning the light from the 
window will not be directly upon them, as it is trying to weak eyes, and 
unpleasant to strong ones. Keep the bureau where the sun's rays will never 
strike the mirror, and where it will not be heated by the stove,'as either will 
granulate the amalgam. Chambers should always be provided with tran- 
soms over the doors, and windows arranged so as to lower easily from the 
top. A light feather-bed, covered with a case like a pillow, may be either 
used over the mattress, or a comfort may be used over it, and the feather- 
beds under it. Tacked on the inside of the washstand-doors, two crotchetcd 
pockets are nice for bathing sponges, and there should be plenty of towels, 
especially of those coarse, rough ones which make a morning bath such a 
luxury. ^ A broad oil-cloth in front of the washstand is also a protection to 
the carpet in bathing, and is needed when there is no bath-room up stairs. 

HOUSE-CLEANING. 

When mother earth summons the stirring winds to help clear away the 
dead leaves and winter litter for the coming grass and flowers, every house- 



HOUSEKEEPING. 



375 



keeper has a feeling of sympathy, and begins to talk of house-cleaning. The 
first bright sunshine of spring reveals unsuspected dust and cobwebs, and to 
her imagination even the scrubbing-bruslies and brooms seem anxious to 
begin the campaign. In nortliern latitudes it is best, however, not to begin 
too soon. Do not trust entirely to appearances, for spring is almost certain 
to break her promises of pleasant weather, and give us a good many days 
when it will be any thing but pleasant to sit sliivering in a fireless room, 
while the children become unmanageable and liusband growls. So for the 
sake of health, peace, and comfort, do not remove the stoves before the mid- 
dle of May. 

Devote a week, at least, to preparations. See that all needed repairs are 
made about the house, and have all necessary tools on hand and in good 
order. Provide lime for whitewashing, carpet-tacks, good soap, sawdust, 
carbolic acid, copperas, and spirits of ammonia. Have closets, bureau draw- 
ers, etc., all thoroughly renovated. Reorganize sewing table, arrange bags 
for the odds and ends that have accumulated during the winter, having 
different ones for each article, and marking the outside in some way ; for 
instance, for the button-bag, sew one on the outside, and so on. Put 
pieces of ribbon, velvet, lace, flowers, etc., in a box, and have it in readiness 
for the spring " fixing up." While this renovating is being done, have "the 
boys" cleaning the yard of the winter rubbish and debris, as this is far more 
important in a sanitary point of view than inside house-cleaning. When you 
begin, do not upset all the house at once, driving your husband to distrac- 
tion, and the children to the neighbors. By cleaning one or two rooms at a 
time, and using a little womanly tact, the whole house may be renovated 
with little inconvenience. 

If you are a "lone woman" you will need the help of one stout girl at the 
least, unless you are stouter than the average American woman, or your 
house is very small. Hire her at least the week before, so that she can get 
accustomed to the house and your way of doing work. Be sure you wash and 
iron every thing you can find that is soiled. Then, on Saturday, do an extra 
large baking, so you will have sufficient bread, cakes, etc., to do you the most 
of the next week. (Make Sunday truly a day of rest.) Then, on Monday, be 
up early; after breakfast leave the girl to wash the dishes, sweep, and put 
things in order up stairs, and you take a man and go to the cellar ; first have 
every thing taken out of the cellar that does not actually belong there. The 
reason for cleaning the cellar first is, that it is generally left to the last when 
all are tired and nearly worn out, and is apt to get what is called a "lick i\m\ 
a promise." The cellar should be one of the most particular places about the 
house; therefore, do it first while fresh and strong. After all the surplus 
things are taken out, move the rest to one end, then give the end a good 
sweeping overhead, down the sides and under foot. Every particle of vege- 
table remnants should be removed, and the spot which may have been moist- 
ened by their presence thoroughly swept, and, if necessary, it should be 
scrubbed or sprinkled over with copperas water to svN^eeten it and to prevent 
malarial exhalations. Boxes, barrels, etc., should be removed into fresh 



376 



HOUSEKEEPING, 



localities in the cellar, so that the places which have gathered dampness 
beneath them may become dry. All the gatherings of earth from stored 
vegetables, and all the bits and shreds of things that grow, must be cleared 
away, or they will become dangerous enemies when exhalations that always 
rise from such things upon heated days shall find their way up into sleeping 
apartments to poison the family with malarial gases. (The cellar should 
always be aired as early as possible after the intense cold is gone, and all 
summer long too much fresh air can not reach its dim recesses.) 

Now wash the windows, and then whitewash every nook and corner with 
common whitewash made yellow with copperas. Do n't be saving, and all 
vermin will bid your cellar a long "good-bye." Now move the things back 
to that end and treat the other end the same way ; when all is done, dust or 
wash out all boxes, barrels, etc., and return to their places, which should be 
arranged as handily as possible. Carry out all trash, wash down the steps, 
and you are ready to leave the door and windows open and go to the garret. 
Open the windows, gather up all papers and place in a box ; next, if rags are 
lying around, pick them up and sort them, putting in sacks (paper sacks are 
best for woolen ; if not torn, will keep out moths), tie each sack with a strip 
like the rags it contains, clean up all other trash and take down to burn, if 
of no other account. Now sweep good overhead, hang up sacks and other 
articles, sweep floor, moving all boxes, trunks, and bundles, then wash floor 
up lightly, just to remove the dust. If you have seen any signs of moths 
they must be attended to, as they will be in the cracks of the floor ; it is no 
use to try to get rid of them down stairs while the garret is kept for a breed- 
ing house. Benzine is sure death to moths, but do not use it if there is fire 
fn the house near, for it w venj dangerovs. If no fire, sprinkle the floor freely 
with it. The odor will soon escape at the open windows. Or take common 
lamp-oil and wash the floor all over; it "smells loud," but will all be gone 
in about two days and so will the moths. Now wash down the steps (other 
wood-work and windows should have been washed before the floor was), and 
you are done. The time taken will be in accordance with the size of the 
rooms and number of things to handle. Now for the bed-rooms. If there is 
a hall, move all the furniture out in it from the rooms, and put the bed out 
to sun. (Never clean house except in sunny weather ; if cloudy in the morn- 
ing, try to put it off till clear weather.) 

Take down all pictures, ornaments, etc. ; clean them and put them away 
in the closets. Clothes, carpeting, and "trumpery" stowed away, must be 
thoroughly dusted and aired in sunshine and wind. Take up carpet, fold it 
up by lifting one side, carrying it over to the other, and laying it down care- 
fully., thus preventing straw and dust getting on the upper side. Carry it 
out and lay it on the grass or hang it on a clothes-line and beat it on the 
wrong side with canes — taking care that the canes have no sharp points. 
Then spread the carpet out and sweep well on the right side. There is more 
art in sweeping a carpet than a novice is apt to suppose. An old broom 
should never be used, and a new one should be kept especially for the car- 
pets. With Brussels and velvet carpeting there are two waj^s to the pile, just 



HO USE-GLEA2^IN0. 



377 



as in velvet, and they should always be swept with the pile. If a carpet iv 
swept against the grain, it soon looks rough and scratched up. Wash out all 
grease spots with a little gall soap and clean water, after the dust is entirely 
beaten out Take one or two pails of sawdust, wet thoroughly and scatter 
well over the floor ; a very little dust will arise when you sweep it off, and it 
will not be necessary to clean the floor before washing wood-work and win- 
dows. If you can not get sawdust, use moist earth instead. 

Wash and polish the windows, and if the walls are hard-finish, they may 
be washed off lightly with soap-suds, and wiped dry. Wash wood-work and 
floors with hot soap-suds, and rinse with strong, hot brine, or hot water with 
a strong mixture of cayenne i>epper in it, to drive out mice, rats, and other 
vermin. Now take some clean old calico and put around a new broom and 
rub down every part of the paper ; if it gets dirty, get a clean one, and wash 
that ready for the next room. If well rubbed, will make the paper look 
clean and bright. If new paper is needed or whitewash overhead, it is better 
to hire a man who makes that his daily work. The great secret of good floor- 
washing is never to do the whole room with the same water ; change it two 
or three times in a small room, and more frequently in a large room. After 
Wfkshing, wipe with a flannel, wringing it frequently. In washing wood- 
work, do not slop water enough about to run a mill, for it can be done just 
as well without making any slop. Do not use soap if the paint is good ; with 
rain-water, a soft rag, and a brush if there are any fancy moldings, give it 
time to soak, and you will find all dirt comes off, leaving the paint looking 
like new. Glass should be washed, wiped nearly dry, and finished with tissue 
paper. (Always save tissue paper for that purpose.) In washing the floor, 
do not forget the closets. If moths are in them, use benzine on the floor ; 
also sprinkle the room floor with benzine, remembering that there must be 
no fire. When floor is dry, blow cayenne pepper into every crack and 
crevice, using a small pair of bellows for the purpose. 

Now we are ready to go to the next room the same way. Then return to 
number one and put the carpet down. A carpet wears better if put down 
well, and it is better to have it done by experienced persons when the expense 
can be afforded and such help can be had. Moth-proof carpet lining is best, 
but several thicknesses of newspaper come next as a carpet preserver. Th£ 
printer's ink is an excellent moth preventive, and the newspapers keep the 
carpet from rubbing on the boards. The good old-fashioned way of putting 
under good clean rye or oat straw is again in favor, for the reason that dust, 
so destructive to them, will pass through both carpet and straw to the floor. 
Begin at one corner, and nail do^vn one of the sides at the cut ends of the 
breadths, continuing round the selvage side, and stretching it evenly and 
firmly without straining the fabric. When two sides are nailed, take next 
the other selvage side. The last side will require the most stretching in order 
to get rid of puckers. 

For stair carpets, make a pad of coarse cotton cloth, nearly as wide as the 
<5arpet, and the full length of the stairs; fill with two or three layers of 
cotton-batting, sewed across to stay it about nine inches between seams. This 

24 



878 



HO USE-CLEANING, 



is best because not displaced so easily as paper. Have half a yard nioxe 
carpeting than is needed in order to turn the carpet upside down, and 
change the positions of the places where the edge of the steps make a 
mark. When the carpet is new, leave it uncovered, and put down stair 
cloth after it begins to sliow wear. Linen over-carpet in the summer is 
both cool and pleasant ; besides, it helps to keep away muthy. After being 
swept and laid down on the floor, the carpet should be wiped. Have two 
pails, one of clean soap-suds, the other with lukewarm water, a clean flannel 
cloth, and two clean, coarse towels. Take the carpet by breadths, wring the 
flannel out of the lukewarm water and hold it so that you can turn and use 
it up and down three or four times on the same place. Rub both with and 
against the grain as hard as if you were scrubbing the floor, then throw 
the flannel into soap-suds, and rub the carpet dry with one of the dry 
towels. If you leave the carpet wet, the dust will stick to it and it will 
smell sour and musty. Wash the flannel clean in the soap-suds, wring it 
out of the warm water and proceed as before. If the carpet is very dirty 
or has much green in it, use fresh ox-gall in the lukewarm water in the 
proportion of a quart of gall to three quarts of water, and rub the carpet 
dry as already directed. This rubbing a carpet raises the pile and freshens 
the colors. When the carpet is nicely down and swept the room is ready 
for its customary furniture, unless the more thorough renovation of kalso- 
mining and painting is to follow the cleaning. Before replacing, every 
article should be tlioroughly cleaned, every button and tuft of the uphol- 
stered goods receiving its share of attention from the furniture-brush. 
Sofas and chairs should be turned down and whipped then carefully 
brushed, and all dust wiped off with a clean cloth slightly damped. Clean 
the pictures and hang them back. If photo or engraving, and dust under 
the glass, take them out and rub off with a clean cloth. Clean the glass by 
washing in weak ammonia water and wiping dry. If gilt frames, wash with 
a little flour of sulphur and rain-water ; if rosewood or other dark wood 
and varnished, rub with furniture polish made as follows: Alcohol, eight 
ounces, linseed oil (raw) eight ounces, balsam fir, one-half ounce, acetic 
ether, one-half ounce. Dissolve the fir in the alcohol, then add the others 
«nd apply with a flannel cloth, and rub until dry. If oiled (not var- 
nished), rub with a cloth wrung out of lamp (kerosene) oil and they will 
look like new. Go over all the furniture with the above polish or oil, accord- 
ing as they are oiled or varnished. If ever troubled with bed bugs, go over 
every part good with lamp-oil. Clean all the other rooms the same way, 
leaving the hall until the last. Wash the oil-cloth with water in which 
some borax is dissolved, and wipe with a cloth wrung out of sweet milk. 
Follow the above directions for the rooms down stairs ; do not have more 
than two rooms torn up at once. Clean out all moths as you go, for they 
will soon ruin carpets, chairs, sofas, etc., if not killed. Polish the furniture 
us above, and do not raise any dust where it is for a few days. Ink stains can 
be taken out with oxalic acid. Wash in cold water, then in a solution of 
chloride of lime, than in water again; if white goods, warm them up in 



HO USE' CLEANING. 



379 



salted milk, let them lie some time, and then wash in water. In cleaning 
paint, use water in which ammonia has been added, till it feels slippery, or 
use fine whiting— to be had at the paint or drug-stores. Take a flannel 
dipped in warm water, squeezed nearly dry ; dip this in the whiting, and 
rub the paint with it; then wash off with warm water. For windows, use 
either of the above, or Indexical soap. For the natural wood, or grained 
work, use clear water and wipe off quickly, or cold tea. 

Paint can be taken off where not wanted, with turpentine. Apply with 
a sponge after a little time it will rub off; if cloth, rub between the hands 
and it will crumble off. White spots caR be taken off varnished furniture 
by rubbing witli a rag wet with spirits of camphor. 

It should be remembered that ammonia, especially tiie stronger kinds, is 
dangerous, a few drops being enough to injure a person. When used for 
cleansing purposes is should be handled with great care, that the gas 
which is given off freely in a warm room, be not breathed in large quan- 
tites, and do injury to the deUcate lining of the nose and mouth. Benzine 
is a liquid, in the handling of which much caution should be exercised. It 
is very volatile, and its vapor, as well as the liquid itself, inflammable. When 
employed for removing grease, or other stains, from clothing, gloves, etc., 
it should never be used at night, nor at any other time near the fire. 
Alcohol must also be used with great care, especially at night. 

When the kitchen is cleaned, all the bake-pans, sauce-pans, tin-kettles, etc., 
should be plunged into a boiler filled with strong soda water ; or, add to clear 
hot water some of the following fluid, which you have already prepared, as 
follows : One i)Ound of sal-soda, one-half pound stone lime, five quarts soft 
water ; boil a short time in copper or brass kettle, stirring occasionally ; let 
settle, then pour off the clear fluid into a stone jug, and cork for use. After 
this, they are really purified, even if they are not scoured with sand, sapolio, 
or whatever burnishing material happens to be a favorite with the housewife. 
This process of cleaning the pots and pans is often pertormed by the tidy 
housewife, bat it is especially appropriate at the time when the whole house 
is being purified of its half year's accumulation of soiling. A kitchen 
should have a painted wall that can be washed with a scrub-brush and 
water, or it should be whitewashed with lime. To clean the kitchen, kettle- 
closets and pantry, is usually the greatest dread of the spring campaign, but 
it need not be if the formalities of boiling the tins is going on while the walls 
and shelves are being scrubbed. Papers should be cut and fitted to the clean 
shelves. Try to have wire screens at all outside doors and all windows, and 
the one leading from the kitchen to the dining room, also the lower half of 
all windows. Keep plenty of husk mats and foot-scrapers at the doors, and 
learn to stop and use them. Have a place for every thing and always put it 
there; it will save work. Do not work so hard as to make youself sick; 
better be a little dirty than have a spell of sickness. A kitchen and pantry 
need cleaning several times in a year, being used the most and should be 
kept the cleanest. 

Sinks, drains, and all places that become sour or impure, should bt 



380 



HO USE-CLEANING. 



cleansed with carbolic acid and water. This, or some other good disinfectant, 
should be kept in every house, and used frequently in warm weather. An- 
other good disinfectant is copperas ; ten cents' worth, dissolved in water, will 
deodorize your sink and other bad smelling places about the buildings. 
Probably there is nothing better for the purpose than copperas ; it possesses 
no bad odor. Do not place carbolic powder boxes, nor sprinkle chloride of 
lime, etc., where your drain openings exist, merely to distract your nose's 
attention from the sewer gas, which is issuing from some leaking pipe or 
choked trap ; by so doing you but ignore nature's warning, that like the 
premonitory smoke and rumblings of a volcano, advises you of the eruption 
of the disease to come. While house-cleaning, brighten up old furniture by 
rubbing well with kerosene oil ; should it be marred or bruised, use the 

Magic Furniture Polish " page 386. Take bedsteads to pieces, and saturate 
every crevice with strong brine ; nothing is better to purify and cleanse, or 
to destroy bed-bugs. To clean mirrors, take clean warm rain-water, and 
put in just enough spirits of ammonia to make it feel slippery. If very 
dirty, rinse, if not, wipe dry and you will be surprised at the effect. Do 
not polish stoves until fall if you are going to put them away during the 
summer, but to keep them or any iron utensils from rusting, rub over 
with kerosene. When polishing, six or eight drops of turpentine added to 
blacking for one stove, brightens it and makes it easier to polish. To re- 
move mortar and paint from windows, rub spots of mortar with hot, 
sharp vinegar ; or, if nearly fresh, cold vinegar will loosen them. Rub the 
paint spots with camphene and sand. To remove sipots from gray marble 
hearths rub with linseed oil. 

Fall house-cleaning deserves no less attention, except that white-washing 
and painting can best be done in the mild days of spring, when the house 
may be thrown open to wind and sunshine. The best time is in tl^ 
constant weather of October ; and before beginning, all the dirty and heavy 
work for the winter, such as getting in coal and wood, should be com- 
pleted, and the cellar made clean and sweet. 

PROTECTION AGAINST MOTHS. 

During the week before the "siege" of house-cleaning in spring or fall, 
look over all garments and articles to be put away, mend, remove all grease 
spots if possible. An effective mode for cleansing is to a table-spoon ammonia 
add a tea-cup boiling water ; when cool enough saturate a piece of the goods 
or a sponge with it and rub the spot briskly, rinse with a clean cloth and 
fresh water, rubbing as before. Shape the garment with the hands so that 
the wet part will neither be stretched or shrunken ; dry in the air or by a 
stinny window. If not out repeat process being careful to rub the goods with 
the nap, then beat with a limber cane and place on the line in the wind and 
sun for a day. Towards evening, before dampness finds its way into them, 
fold them up with pulverized camphor, cut tobacco or cedar chips, lay in 
their wrinkles, wrap them in newspaper, carefully tie and lab«l them, and 
they are ready for the closet shelves. Or, have fixed a trunk, box, or chest 
that is thoroughly cleaned, and lay an old sheet, that has, however, no holes 



HO USE-CLEANING. 



381 



in it, in this receptacle, so that the middle of the sheet is parallel with the 
bottom of the box. Lay the heaviest garment at the bottom with a plentiful 
supply of gum camphor in bits the size of a hickory-nut, or cedar shavings, 
strewn upon each garment; when the box is filled strew camphor or cedar 
skavings on top of the last garment, and all around the edges, and fold and 
pin the sheet over so that all of the edges lap over each other. Close the 
box, and set in closet in some part of the house which is frequented often 
during the warm weather, for the presence of any animated object is certain 
to disturb the moth. Always clear out all closets and trunks early in the 
spring. Wash with a sponge dipped in a mixture of ammonia and alcohol. 
Every thing tlie closets or trunks contain should be shaken and well aired. 

Sometimes a heavy carpet, in a room seldom used, is not taken up at house- 
cleaning time. In this case lay a cloth along the edge of the carpet and pass 
slowly over it with a hot flat-iron. This will kill moths and their eggs. If 
moths are discovered in a carpet at a time when it is inconvenient to take it 
up, they may be killed in the same way. A carpet, particularly if turned 
under at edges, should not be left down longer than one year, even if not 
much used. 

All moths work in the dark, hence clothing, furs or carpets exposed to the 
light are not in so much danger as when put away in the dark. The worms 
are torpid and do not work during the cold of the winter. Early in the 
spring they change into chrysalids, and again in about three weeks they 
transform into winged moths, when they fly about the house during th^ 
'evening until May or June. Then they lay their eggs, always in dark places, 
and immediately after die. The eggs, which are too small to be detected with 
the naked eye, hatch out in about two weeks, and the young worms immedi- 
ately proceed to work. 

Furs should not be worn late in the season. They should be combed care- 
fully with a dressing-comb, beaten and aired (but not in the hot sun), sprink- 
led with camphor gum, and wrapped in linen, sewed up, and then put in a 
paper bag. Newspaper is not strong enough ; brown wrapping paper is 
better. Paper boxes may be used, but should be pasted securely so nothing 
can enter. Cedar chests will effectually keep out moths, but few are so fort- 
unate as to possess these. Any article of fur, which has previously been 
troubled with moths, should be opened and examined in July, to make suie 
no moth is harbored in them, despite the precautions taken. This process, 
pursued resolutely year after year, will keep a house almost, if not entirely 
free, from the moth, and save much destruction and annoyance. 

In the country remote from drug-stores, many housekeepers use the dried 
leaves of sage, thyme, spearmint and other highly scented herbs. These are 
gathered after the housewife has laid in aM she may require for cooking and 
medicinal purposes, are tied in bunches and dried, and then laid among the 
clothes in the large wooden chest ; or a pole is laid from rafter to rafter, and 
the clothing is hung over this, and casings of calico or old cotton quilts are 
carefully pinned around each garment, the bunches of herbs being also 
pinned at intervals about the clothing. 



382 



PAPERING. 



KALSOMINING. 

If papering and painting, or kalsomining are to be done, do the last named 
first. Wash ceiling that has been smoked by the kerosene lamp, with a strong 
solution of soda. Fill all cracks in the wall with a cement made of one part 
water to one part silicate of potash mixed witli common whiting. Put it in 
with a limber case-knife if you have no trowel. In an hour, after it has set, 
scrape olf the rough places, and after kalsomining no trace of the crack will 
appear. For the wasii, take eight pounds whiting and one-fourth pound white 
glue; cover glue with cold water over night, and heat gradually in the morn- 
ing until dissolved. Mix whiting with hot water, add the dissolved glue and 
stir together, adding warm water until about the consistency of thick cream. 
Use a kalsomine brush, which is finer than a white-wash brush, and leaves the 
work smoother. Brush in, and finish as you go along. If skim-milk is 
used instead of water, the glue may be omitted. 

PAINTING. 

If painting has been required, a patient endurance of a sufficient number 
of drying days must be given over to this process. The smell of the turpen- 
tine will be very much diminished, and the unwholesomeness of paint almost 
destroyed, by placing in the apartments, and in the adjoining sl-eeping-rooms, 
several wash-bowls or pails filled with cold water. In the morning the top 
of the water will exhibit the material which it has absorbed, and which those 
who were breathing the same air would have taken into their systems. If but 
one coat of paint is to be placed upon an apartment, all the wood should be 
carefully washed with strong sal-soda water, and dried before painting it, to re- 
move any oily or dingy spots that would otherwise soon show through a 
single layer of either white or color. 

Any woman of a mechanical turn of mind can paint a room, buying the 
paint ready mixed. While painting keep the room well ventilated and eat 
acid fruits. When done, any spatters on the glass may be removed by the 
application of a mixture of equal parts of ammonia and turpentine, washed 
o& with soap-suds. To polish the glass, wash in warm water, wipe with a soft 
cloth, put a little whiting on the center of the pane, and rub with chamoia- 
^in or a soft cloth. 

PAPERING. 

In papering a hard-finished wall, a thin solution of white glue should be 
first applied with a white-wash brush. To make the paste, sift the flour, add 
one ounce pulverized alum to every pound of flour, mix it smoothly with 
cold water, and pour over it gently but quickly boiling water, stirring mean- 
time constantly. When it swells and turns yellow it is done, but is not to be 
used until cool, and may be kept for some time without spoiling. Or, for 
paste, clear corn starch is sometimes used, made precisely as made for starch- 
ing clothes. It is well to use a small quantity of carbolic acid in it, as a pre- 
caution against vermin. A thin paste of wheat, or what is better, rye flour, 
is, however, very good for any thing except the most delicate papers. The 
wall should be smooth, and if very smoky or greasy in spots, It should be 
washed with weak lye or soap-suds. Trim the paper close to the pattern on 



GENERAL SUGGESTIONS. 



383 



one side. A pair of long shears is best for the purpose— allowing the roll to 
lie on the floor, and rolling up again on the lap as fast as trimmed. Provide 
a board wider than the paper, and a little longer than a single breadth when 
cut. Cut all the full breadths that will be required for the room, matching 
as you cut, and saving remnants for door and window spaces. Begin at 
the right hand and work to the left. The breadths may be laid one on 
another on the board, the top one pasted with a good brush, the top 
turned down, bringing the two pasted sides together, a foot or two from 
the other end. Carefully adjust the top to its place, gently pressing it 
with soft towels, first down the middle of the breadth and then to each edge. 
In turning a corner, paste only that part which belongs to one side, fasten 
it in place, and then paste and adjust the rest. The border may be tacked 
on ; No. 4 tacks will not be visible at the top of a room, and it may be re- 
moved when the ceiling needs whitening. In selecting paper avoid contrasts 
in colors and large staring patterns, as they are out of taste and tiresome 
to the eye. Choose rather neutral tints and colors that harmonize and blend 
agreeably together, and with the general tone of carpets and furniture. 
Even with a bare floor and plain wooden chairs, the effect of a soft-tinted 
paper gives a vastly different impression than if the wall is disfigured 
with glaring figures and contrasting colors. If ceilings are low, heighten the 
appearance by a figure which runs perpendicularly through the wall-paper; 
the effect produced is very deceptive— the ceiling appearing much higher 
than it really is. Wall-paper is half a yard wide, and about eight yards to 
the roll, so that it is easy to estimate the quantity needed. It is wise al- 
ways to get one extra roll for repairs. After papering a room build no fire 
in it until dry. 

GENERAL SUGGESTIONS. 

On Monday, wash : Tuesday, iron : Wednesday, bake and scrub kitchen 
and pantry : Thursday, clean the silver-ware, examine the pots and kettles, 
and look after store-room and cellar : Friday, devote to general sweeping 
and dusting : Saturday, bake and scrub kitchen and pantry floors, and pre- 
pare for Sunday. When the clothes are folded off* the frame after ironing, 
examine each piece to see that none are laid away that need a button or a 
stitch. Clean all the silver on the last Friday of each month, and go 
through each room and closet to see if things are kept in order and nothing 
going to waste. Have the sitting-room tidied up every night before retir- 
ing. Make the most of your brain and your eyes, and let no one dare tell 
you that you are devoting yourself to a low sphere of action. Keep cool 
and self-possesvsed. Work done quietly about the house seems easier. A 
slamming of oven doors, and the rattle and clatter of dishes, tire and be- 
wilder every body about the house. Those who accomplish much in house- 
keeping — and the same is true of every other walk in life — ^are the quiet 
workers. 



Silver-ware, when set away, keeps best wrapped in blue tissue-paper. 
Hainy Days. — Make the house as bright and sunshiny as possible. 



384 



GENERAL SUGGESTIONS, 



To Prevent Hinges Creaking. -Rub with a feather dipped in oil. 

To Drive off FLEAs.-Spnnkle about bed a few drops of oil of lavender 

dnVe awj; re"5tnte;''' ^ '"'^^^^ ^^^^ " ^^^^^ cupboard wlu 

r^.]?h^r.fi^''''T'~^}u^''^^ "^^^ ^ ^^P* ^^ee ^^"i ice and polished by 
rubbing the glass with a sponge dipped in alcohol. ^ 

nieht ThPVP«t^?t''onH^'''^'' .^^-rSP^i^kle the floor with hellebore at 
nignt. iney eat it and are poisoned 

Lost Children -Label children's hats with the name and place of resi- 
d^ce so that, if lost, they may be easily restored. ^ 

Parcels.— When parcels are brought to the house, fold paper and put 
ftway in drawer, an(f roll the string on a ball kept for the purpose 

by the'^'c^intity. ^""^^^ ^^"^ ^^^^ ^^"^ '""^P '^'^^^^ ^^^^^ 

To Prevent Pails from Shrinking.— Saturate pails and tubs with glv- 
oerme, and they will not shrink. 

w^^l^^^"* ^'^L FRAMEs.-Boil three or four onions in a pint of 

Wat^r and apply with a soft brush. ^ 

To Remove Old Putty from Window-Frames. -Pass a red-hot poker slowly 
oyer it, and it will come off easily. r^^^x oiuwijr 

To Soften Hard Water.— Hard water becomes nearly soft by boiling A 
piece of chalk will soften hard spring-water ^ ^mng. a 

ac^?^l''^.''y Saturday for Monday, so as not to take up the fire with 
oooking, or time in running errands on washing-day 

lrl2.,l-''' CiSTERN-WATER.-Cistern-water that^ has become hard from 
long standing, can be softened by adding a little borax 

To Destroy the Smell of Fresh PAiNT.-Sprinkle hay with water in which 
*loride of hme has been mixed, and place on floor 

r^lt^Uh^l ^^^f ^\s.-Dissolye two pounds alum in three quarts water. Ap- 
ply with a brush while hot to every crevice where vermin Jiarbor. ^ 

Tf tL ^^'^^^^y over them gently. 

If the varnish has become defaced, cover with a thin mastic varnish 

^^J't:^ t^'^r "^^^^ excellent garden walks. They become very hard by use 
and no weeds or grass will grow through them ^ 

To Cleanse a Sponge. --By rubbing a fresh lemon thoroughly into a 
rs^tt^^^Ln neT"^ several times in lukewarm water, it U be'come 
To Remove Grease Spots from Carpets.— Cover spots with flour and 

&?n^nVfi'^ W ^^'^ ^^^'^^1 times, each tfme 

brushing off the old flour into a dust-pan and putting on fresh 

f^oo?'?/.?-"""^^''^-'* P^*away clean clothes without examining every piece 

cTrefuflyLrned" ^"^^^^ P-ticu1arly, Ih^ould 

Hard Whitewash.— Ten cents worth of kalsomine, Ave cents worth of 
glue disso ved m warm water, two quarts of soft soap, and bluing. This will 
do for halls closets, fences, etc. ^ 

Bad Smells.— Articles of clothing, or of anv other character which have 
become impregnated with bad-smelling substances, will be freed from thtm 
by burying for a day or two in the ground. Wrap up lightly before burying 
nf n«iff ^t.'? OHINA.-T0 a thick solution of gum arabi? add enough pffi 
^^parts to form a sticky paste; apply with a brush, and stick edges to- 

Sheets.— When sheets are beginning to wear in tlie middle sew the sel- 
y^e sides together and rip open the old seam, or tear in two and hem the 

(me^'naJt vermi^^on "'d^^ ^^^^^ ^^'^^ ^^"^^ ^^'^^ and 

^11 fook HkTcorai: ^ ''''' ' '^""^ ^^^^ 

To Sew Carpet-rags on a MAcniNE.-Make the stitch short, run it ob- 



GENERAL SUGGESTIONS. 



385 



liquely across the rags where they are to be joined, and sew a good many^ 

before cutting the thread. ... u ^ * ^ 

A Rustic Frame.— A neat rustic frame for pictures may be made of cat- 
tail rods. Hide the corners where they are joined with ivy, or a vine made 
of leather-leaves or handsome autumn leaves and the berries of bitter-sweet. 

To Destroy Weeds in Walks.— Boil ten pounds stone-lime, five gallons 
water and one pound flour of sulphur, let settle, pour off clear part, and 
sprinkle freely upon the weedy walks. . x u 

To Mend Tin.— Scrape the tm about the hole free from grease and rust, rub- 
on a piece of resin until a powder lies about the hole, over it lay a piece of 
solder, and hold on it a hot poker or soldering iron until it melts. 

To Remove Grease from Wood before Painting.— Whitewash the spots 
over night and wash it off in the morning. When dry, the paint will stick. 
Slaked lime laid on the spots and wet a little, will do as well as whitewash 

To Cle\n Hearths.— Soapstone or sandstone hearths are cleaned by 
washing in pure water, then sprinkling with powdered marble or soapstone, 
and rubbing with a piece of the stone as large as a bnck, and having at 

least one flat surface. -u-j. ^^ 

Lightning Cream for Paint or Clothes.— Four ounces white castile 
soap, four of ammonia, two of ether, two of alcohol, one of glycerine ; cut the 
soap fine, dissolve in one quart of soft water over the fire, and when dissolved 
add the other ingredients. 

Kerosene and Carpets.— When so unfortunate as to spill kerosene oil or 
other grease on a carpet, sprinkle buckwheat flour (wheat flour will do)= 
lightly over it until it is completely covered, and let it lie without disturb- 
ing it for a week ; brush off, and there will be no trace of oil left 

Magic Furniture Polish.- Half pint alcohol, half ounce resin, half 
ounce gum-shellac, a few drops analine brown ; let stand over night and add 
three-fourths pint raw linseed oil and half pint spirits turpentine ; shake well 
before using. Apply with cotton flannel, and rub dry with another cloth. 

To Hang'' Pictures.— The cheapest and best material with which to 
hang pictures is copper wire, of a size proportioned to the weight of the 
picture. When hung, the yire is scarcely visible, and its strength and 

durability is wonderful. . , . , 

Lamp-wicks.— To insure a good light, wicks must be changed often, as 
they soon become clogged, and do not permit the free passage of the oil. 
Soaking wicks in vinegar twenty-four hours before placing in lamp insures a 
clear flame. Felt wicks are best. . , . 

To Temper Lamp Chimneys.— Lamp chimneys and glass-ware for hot 
water are made less liable to brake by putting in cold water, bringing slowly 
to boiling point, boiling for an hour, and allowing to cool before removing 

from water. , , i i i t_ c 

Furniture Polish.— One and a half ounces each alcohol and butter of 
antimony, one-half ounce muriatic acid, eight ounces of linseed-oil, one- 
half pint vinegar. Mix cold. This has been tried for twelve years and has 
been regularly sold for $10. . ^ . i x-. 

A Cheap Carpet.— Make a cover for the floor of the cheapest cotton cloth. 
Tack it down like a carpet, paper it as you would a wall with paper re- 
sembling a carpet in figures, let it dry, varnish with two coats of varnish, and 
with reasonable usage it will last two years. 

Mending Plaster of Paris.— Gum shellac makes an excellent strong 
cement for joining broken pieces together, and is more covenient than glue. 
The shellac should be flowed upon the surfaces to be joined, firmly pressed 
together, and Carefully set away for about one hour. 

To Make Rag Rugs.— Cut rags and sew hit and miss, or fancy striped as 
you choose ; use wooden needles, round, smooth, and ix)inted at one end, of 
any convenient length. The knitting is done back and forth (like old fash- 
ioned suspenders), always take off the first st\ch.—Anna F. Hisey. 

To Clear Cistern Water.— Add two ounces powdered alum and two 



386 



GENERAL SUGGESTIONS. 



ounces borax to a twenty barrel cistern of rain-water that is blackened or 
oily, and in a few hours the sediment will settle, and the water be clarified 
and fit for washing and even for cooking purposes. 

To MAKE Oil-Cloths more Durable.— Betore or after putting down new 
•oil-cloths, put on one or two coats of linseed-oil with a brush, and when 
thoroughly dry, £idd one or two coats of varnish. This makes the cloth 
softer and much mo-re durabU. — Miss Eva Even is, Delaware. 

To Keep Ice-water.— Make a hat-shaped cover of two thicknesses of 
strong brown paper with cotton-batting quilted between, large enough to 
4rop over and completely envelop the pitcher. This prevents the warm air 
from coming in contact with the pitcher, and the ice will last a long time. 

To Sweep a Rag-Carpet.— Set a pail of water outside the door and dip the 
broom in it, shaking the water off, so there will be no wet streaks on the car- 
I)et ; sweep but a small portion, and then dip the broom again ; in this wav 
the dust is taken up in the broom, instead of being sent whirling through 
the air. 

To Start a Fire in damp, still Weather.— Light a few bits of shavings 
or paper placed upon the top of grate ; thus by the heated air's forcing itself 
into the chimnev and establishing there an upward current, the room is 
kept free from the gas and smoke which is so apt to fill it, and the fire can 
then be lighted from below with good success. 

Putting away Clothes.— Before putting? away summer or winter clothes, 
mend, clean, brush, shake well, fold smoothly, sprinkle gum-camphor, on 
every fold, and on the bottom of trunks or closets (unless cedar chests are 
used). Fine dresses, cloaks, etc., should be wrapped in towels or sheets by 
themselves, and placed in the tray or a separate apartment of the trunk. ^ 

Cement for Attaching Metal to Glass.— Mix two ounces of a thick 
solution of glue with one ounce of linseed-oil varnish, and half an ounce 
of pure spirits of turpentine ; boil the whole together in a close vessel. After 
it has been applied to the glass and metal, clamp together for two or three 
days till dry. . . 

Cane Chair-Bottoms.— To clean and restore the elasticity of cane chair- 
hottoms, turn the chair bottom upward, and with hot water and a sponge 
wash the cane ; work well, so that it is well soaked ; should it be dirty use 
soap, let it dry well in the air, and it will be as tight and firm as new, pro- 
vided none of the canes are broken. 

To Paste Paper on Tin.— Make a thin paste of gum-tragacanth and water, 
to which add a few drops of oil of vitriol. Mix a pound each of transparent 
glue and very strong vinegar, one quart alcohol, a small quantity of alum, 
and dissolve by means of a water-bath. This is useful for uniting horn, 
pearl, shell, and bone. 

To Clean Oil-Cloths.— Take a pail of clean, soft, lukewarm water, a nice, 
soft piece of flannel, wash the oil-cloth and wipe very dry so that no drop of 
water is left to soak in and rot the fabric. After washing and drying, if a 
cloth is rung out of a dish of skim-milk and water, and the oil-cloth is rubbed 
over with this, and then again well dried, the freshness and luster of the 
cloth will well repay the extra labor. . , v -, 

How TO Wash Chamois Leather.— Make a good, tepid suds with hard or 
soft soap, put in leather, rub it on the wash-board, put soap on skin and rub 
again on board, and wash in this way through one or two suds, or until per- 
fectly clean ; rinse in tepid water without bluing, squeeze dry (do not wring), 
hang in sun and keep snapping and pulling it till perfectly dry. The leather 
will be as soft as new if the snapping and pulling are done thoroughly. 

A Cheap Filter.- The most impure water may be rendered pure by fil- 
tering through charcoal. Take a large flower-pot, put a piece of sponge or 
clean moss over the hole in the bottom, fill three-quarters full of equal parts 
olean sand and charcoal, the size of a pea ; over this lay a linen or woolen 
cloth large enough to hang over the sides of the pot. Pour the water into 
the cloth, and it will come out pure. 



GENERAL SUGGESTIONS. 



387 



To Clean Looking Glasses. — Divide a newspaper in two, fold up one- 
half in a small square, wet in cold water. Rub the glass first with the wet 
half of the paper, and dry with the otlier. Fly-specks and all other marks 
will disappear as if by magic. This is only true of the best quality of rag 
paper, such as is used by the best weekly jmpers. Paper which haa wood or 
straw in it leaves a linty deposit on the glass. 

To Clean Silver-ware Easily.— -Save water in which potatoes have 
been boiled with a little salt, let it become sour, which it will do in a few 
days; heat and wash the articles with a woolen cloth, rinsing in pure water, 
dry and polish with chamois-leather. Never allow a particle of soap to 
touch silver or plated ware. For wiping silver, an old linen table-cloth cut 
up in pieces of convenient size, hemmed, and marked "silver," is very nice. 

To Clean Smoke off Marble.— Wet a piece of flannel in strong ammonia 
and rub the marble quickly with it, and then wash off with hot soap-suds ; 
or, make a paste of chloride of lime and water and brush over the whole 
surface that is smoky. Let it stand a minute, then wash with hot suds. A 
paste of crude potash and whiting brushed over a grease spot on marble will 
cleanse it perfectly. 

Economical Mats for use in front-doors, fire-places, bureaus, stands, 
etc., may be made of coffee-sacking, cut to any desired size, and worked in 
bright worsted or Germantown wool. Any simple pattern may be used or 
it may be entirely filled in with a plain green. The edges of the sacking 
may be fringed by raveling. To give it weight, line with an old piece of 
carpet or lieavv cloth. 

A Good Cement— For mending almost any thing, may be made by mixing 
litharge and glycerine to the consistency of thick cream or fresh putty. 
This cement is useful for mending stone jars, stopping leaks in seams of tin- 
pans or wash-boilers, cracks and holes in iron kettles, fastening on lamp-tops; 
in all cases the article mended should not be used till the cement has hard- 
ened. This cement will resist the action of water, hot or cold, acids, and 
almost any degree of heat. 

To Preserve Books.— Bindings may be preserved from mildew by brush- 
ing them over with the spirits of wine. A few drops of any perfumed oil will 
secure libraries from the consuming effects of mold and damp. Russia 
leather which is perfumed with the tar of the birch-tree, never molds or sus- 
tains injury from damp. The Romans used oil of cedar to preserve valuable 
manuscripts. Russia-leather covered books, placed in a stationer's window, 
will destroy flies and other insects. 

Badly Fitting Doors. — When blinds and doors no not close snugly, but 
leave cracks through which drafts enter, the simplest remedy is this: Place a 
strip of putty all along the jambs, cover the edge of the blind or door with 
chalk, and shut it. The putty will then fill all spaces which would remain 
open and be pressed out where it is not needed, while the excess is easily 
removed with a knife. The chalk rubbed on the edges prevents adhesion, 
and the putty is left in place, where it soon dries and leaves a perfectly fit- 
ting jamb. 

Care of Oil Paintings and Frames. — Wash the picture, when neces- 
sary, in sweet milk and warm water, drying carefully. Or, clean the paint- 
ing well with a sponge dipped in warm beer, and when perfectly dry, wash 
with a solution of the finest gum-dragon dissolved in pure water. To re- 
touch a gilt frame wet the rubbed spot with isinglass dissolved in weak 
spirits. When about dry, lay on gold-leaf, and when quite dry, polish with 
a very hard burnisher. " Give the gilt frame when new a coat of white var- 
nish, and all specks can then be washed off with water or suds without 
harm. 

Finish for Room. — A room with plain white walls is finished beautifully 
by placing a black walnut (or the same wood with which the room is fin- 
ished) molding around the room where the border of paper is usually placed, 
at the junction of wall and ceiling. The molding, fiiii.shed in oil, costs from 



388 



GENERAL SUGGESTIONS. 



one to five cents a foot, and is easily put up. The upper edge should be 
rounded, and a sjpace of a quarter inch left between it and ceiling. To hang 
pictures buy an S hook, sold at all hardware stores, place one hook over the 
molding, hang the picture cord on the other, and slip to the right or left to 
the desired position. This saves the wall from injury from picture-nails. 

Perpetual Taste. — Dissolve a tea- spoon of alum in a quart of water. 
When cold, stir in as much flour as will give it the consistenc}'' of thick 
cream, being particular to beat up all the lumps; stir in as much powdered 
rosin as will lay on a tire-cent piece, and throw in half a doaen cloves to give 
it a pleasiiut odor. Have on tne fire a tea- cup of boiling water, pour the 
flour mixture into it, stirring well at the time. In a few minutes it will be 
of the consistency of mush. Pour it into an earthen vessel, let it cool, lay a 
cover on, and put in a cool place. When needed for use, take out a portion 
and soften it with warm water. Paste made in this way will last a year. It 
is better than gum, as it does not gloss the paper. 

To Clean a Papered Wall. — Cut into eight pieces a large loaf of bread 
two days old, blow dust off wall with a bellows, rub down with a piece of the 
bread, in half yard strokes, beginning at the top of the room, until upper 
part is cleaned, then go round again repeating until all has been gone over. 
Or, better, take about two quarts of wheat bran, tie it in a bundle of coarse 
flannel, and rub it over the paper. It will clean the paper nicely. If done 
carefully, so that erery spot is touched, the paper will look almost like new. 
Dry corn meal may be used instead of bread, applying it with a cloth. If 
grease spots appear, put blotting paper over spots and press with a hot flat- 
iron. 

Ink Stains on mahogany, rosewood, or black walnut furniture may be 
removed by touching the stain with a feather wet in a spoonful of water in 
which six or eight drops of nitre have been mixed. As soon as the ink dis- 
appears, rub the place immeddatdy with a cloth wet in cold water, or the nitre 
will leave a white stain. If the ink stain then remains, make the solution of 
nitre stronger, and repeat. Ink stains on paper may be removed by a solu- 
tion made as follows: Dissolve a half pound chloride of lime in two quarts 
of soft water ; let stand twenty-four hours and strain through a clean cotton 
cloth; add to an ounce of the lime-water a tea-spoon of acetic acid, apply to 
the blot, and the ink will disappear. Dry with blotting paper. Bottle the 
remainder of the lime-water closely, and keep for future use. 

The Care of Marble. — Never wash the marble tops of wash-stands^ 
bureaus, etc., with soap. Use clean warm water (if very much soiled add a 
little ammonia) and a soft cloth, drying immediately with a soft towel. 
Tliere is nothing that will entirely remove grease spots from marble, hence 
the necessity of avoiding them. To clean marble or marbleized slate man- 
tels, use a soft sponge or chamois-skin, dampened in clean warm water 
without soap, then polish with dry chamois-skin. In dusting, use a feather- 
duster, and never a cloth, as it is likely to scrat<3li the polished surface. 
Slate hearths are preferable to marble, as they are not so easily soiled. To 
wash them, use a clean cloth and warm water. Many oil them thoroughly 
when new with linseed oil ; thus prepared they never show grease spots. 

Indelible Ink. — Two drams lunar caustic, six ounces distilled or rain- 
water ; dissolve, and add two drams gum-water. Wet the linen with the fol- 
lowing preparation : Dissolve one-half an ounce prepared natron, four ounces 
water, add half ounce gum-wat^r, (recipe below) ; after smoothing it with a 
w^arm iron, write with the ink, using a gold, quill, or a new steel pen. The 
writing must be exposed to a hot sun for twelve hours; do not wash for one 
week, then be particular to get out the stain which the preparation will 
make. If this is followed in every particular, there need never be a failure. 
Gum-water for the above is composed of two drams gum-arabic to four 
ounces water. One tea-spoon makes two drams, two t^ible-spoons make one 
ounce. If at any time the ink becomes too pale add a little of pure lunar 
caustic. Never write without using the preparation, as it will rot the cloth. 



GENERAL SUOGESTIONS. 389 

Tn FxTERMiNATE BEDBUGS.— In March scald with boiling water every crMk 
or susSd pface where they find refuge, and then touch thoroughly eve^ 
wackTndsea^ni where the bugs are likely, to harbor with kfosene Grea 
^ro niiist bp taken not to injure fine varnished furniture. If any injury is 
So4T varnish by the hot water, it may be restored by rubbing imrnedi- 
fte^v withTrag wJt in turpentine or oil.^ Beds should be examined again 
forve^min in July and August, and if measures are taken to exterminate 
th«m Xre will bl very little trouble. Another death-dealing method is to 
fillTr'evices with salt, and wash bedstead with strong brine or use kerosene 
in the lame way Paris-green and mercurial ointment are deadly poisons to 
the bedbug but as they are dangerous to have in the house, the first-named 
rnethods are nrefefable. One part quicksilver to twenty parts white ot an 
methoas are P\«ff "J"^:, " ^ everv crack and crevice in bedstead and room, 
*^-fl Most oeoDle Ire Enable to console themselves for sleepless 

niiws i dfd the I^^^^^^^^^^ "Inlade, I did quite as well as the 

bui f^ not one o them slept a wink all night," and the above recipes 
aSf of them certain to remove the pests if properly and faithfully applied. 

P.RMPR^rDooR Mat -Every doorstep should be provided with a foot- 
scraner and a brush or broom, and every one, as he comes in, should take the 
time to use them before appearing on the carpet or clean floor. If a regular 
^mpe?-^ne made for the purposl-is not at hand, one can make one from a 
bit of hooD-iron which is to be placed on a step or edge of the porch in a 
^nvenient place It ii well to provide a "mud-mat," which is simply strips 
S^^inch orso square-fe^ice pickets will answer-screwed to three or four 
cress Pieces an hich apart, or a more elaborate one can be made by stringing 
Se sla s upon fence wires One with muddy boots is very apt to stamp and 
li^h thpm on the steos or floor of the porch ; a mud-mat will clean them off 
more effectSaUy aTs^ve the porch hard wear. A very excellent mat may 
b^ Lde by bonng holes in aWrd, and drawing corn husks through the 
bol^s Careful persons change their foot-gear when they enter the house to 
remain any len|th of Unie-I custom conducive not only to neatness, but so 
pTPBtIv to comfort, that it is to be commended. . i 

^Moving -Whet about to move to another house, beg n packing two weefci 
beforehand Carefully pack small and fragile articles in boxes and barrels. 
?^ this waV china an! glassware, and fragile ornaments may be stowed 
iwav with odd articles of clothing, bedding, ete. Books should be packed 
fi7boxes or wrapped several in a package, in several thicknesses of news- 
aper ai'id tild w?th strong twine. Tliey can thus be transported with very 
ittle handling Larger pictures should be taken down and tied in couples, 
fece trtace w th rolls of soft paper between the corners to prevent rubbing. 
S^all pictured nay be packed with clothing in bureau-drawers and trunks 
UP ci^^^-pet^ last. When about ready to move, select one room up-staars 
into which remove every thing possible from the other rooms and another 
below for he Zie purt^se. If the occupant of the house into which you 
are to move wm do the^me, yon can easily make some rooms there ready 
fo? occupancy Of course each room must be swept down and scrubbed. 
As soon K floors are dry, carpets maybe pntdownin the more 'mpor- 
taTit rooms and the furniture moved in. On the day the transfer s inaae, 
that^oal or fuel s provided, so that a fire may be started, and take along 
fLTpt vrith matches towels, napkins, knives and forks, sugar, tea, bread, 
Ld nthPr mateH^lf all the caution you can exercise, 

™u wUl find Frankl n's oW true, that "three removes are as bad as a 

Se'^ Houses that have been empty may become fever hrfders when they 
come to be re-occupied. An English saniterv officer alleges hat he haa 
nlUerved tvnhoid diphtheria, or other zymotic affections to arise under tne8e 
cSstanc^ef The^<»use is'supposed to be in the disuse of cisterns. p.pM, 
and d™a^s the process of putrefaction going on in the impure air in them 
the uiSructe&ess of this air to the house, while the closure of windows 
Ind doo« eKally shuts out fresh air. Per^jns moving from the city to 



390 



GENERAL SUGGESTIONS. 



their country homes for the summer, should see that the drains and pipes 
are in perfect order, that the cellars and closets are cleared of rubbish; and 
the whole house thoroughly aired before occupying. Copperas used freely 
in the cellar is a good and cheap disinfectant. 

Labor-saving Conteivances.— Every good housewife has neatly arranged 
cupboard and dish-closet. Every thing has its appropriate shelf and division. 
±Jut there are other things for which provision should be made. A pile of 
books IS sometimes seen in one part of the dining-room, a few newspapers in 
another, and a pair of shoes in a third. The inside of a closet is sometimes 
a ma^ of confusion— "a place for every thing," and everv thing thrown 
promiscuously into it. Half a dozen garmeijt.s are hung upon one nail to 
crowd each other out of shape ; others are thrown uix)n the iloor amid heaps 
ot boots and shoes. And so on to the end of the chapter of careless and slov- 
enly disorder. There is no excuse for such carelessness, and no satisfaction 
in such housekeeping. Want of time is no excuse, for such want of system 
and order is the cause of the most prodigal waste of time. It is only neces- 
sary to use the brain a little to save the hands. Systematic habits, doing 
every thing well, and the hundred little contrivances which wdll suggest 
themselves to every neat and ingenious housekeeper, will save time, and 
establish order and cleanliness. Have shelves in the closet, and regular rows 
ot hooks, and plenty of them ; let one side be appropriated to one kind of 
clothing, with a hook for each article. If neces.sarv to preserve the order 
make a neat label, and paste over each hook. Make shoe-pockets (these 
pockets are made of about two and a half yards of calico ; one yard of which 
makes the back, to be tacked to the door when done. Split the remaining 
yard and a half in two, lengthwise, and, placing the strips about one inch 
apart, make, across the back, three rows of pockets, by stitching first the 
ends of the strips to the sides of the back, and then gather the bottom of each 
strip to fit the back ; then separate each strip into tw^o, three, or four pock- 
ets, according to the use for which they are designed, and fasten by stitching 
a narrow "piping" of calico, from top to bottom of the back, between the 
pockets. All the work may be done on a machine. A border of leather, 
stitched on the edges of the back, and a narrow strip used instead of the 
calico piping," make whole much stronger) on the inside of the doors, and 
never put any thing on the closet floor, where it will be trodden upon in 
entering for other articles. Never stuff any thing away out of sight in haste 
and disorder. Hiding dirtiness does not cure it. Those who write many 
letters should have a case, with "pigeon-holes" labeled and arranged alpha- 
betically— a box for three or four letters is sufficient— in which to keep them 
with one compartment for unanswered letters. When the case becomes 
crowded, or at the end of the year, wrap in packages, and label with letter 
and the year. Newspapers and magazines, when preserved, should be neatly 
hied in order and laid away, or sent away for binding. The work-basket 
which IS in daily use, is often a spectacle for gods and men— the very picture 
of confusion and disorder. When it can be afforded, one of the new ladies' 
adjustable work-tables, of which several admirable stvles are made and widely 
advertised, will be found a great convenience, especially where there are 
children— whose little fingers delight in tumbling the contents of the basket. 
It a basket is used, it should be divided into compartments, A circular bas- 
ket, with divisions about the edge for smaller articles, and larger spaces in 
the center, is convenient, and easily kept in order. All these, and hundreds 
ot other devices like them, are labor-savers, wiiich relieve housekeeping of a 
large share of its burdens. And a calculation of the time spent every year 
in hunting through closets for lost overshoes or slippers, or in cleaning un 
the scattered items in the sitting-room w^hen company is coming in and 
searching for missing letters among a miscellaneous pile thrown into a 
drawer, will give a startling result, and convey some adequate idea of the 
real money and time-value of that love of neatness and order which is one 
of the cardinal virtues in women. 



HOUSEKEEPER'S ALPHABET. 



391 



housekeeper's alphabet. 

Apples— Keep in dry place, as cool as possible without freezing. 
Brooms— Hang in the cellar-way to keep soft and pliant. 
Cranberries— Keep under water, in ceUar ; change water monthly. 
Dish of hot water set in oren prevents cakes, etc., from scorching. 
Economize time, health, and means, and you will never beg. 
Flour— Keep cool, dry, and securely covered. 

Glass— Clean with a quart of water mixed with table-spoon of ammonia. 
Herbs— Gather when beginning to blossom ; keep in paper sacks. 
Ink STA.INS— Wet with spirits turpentine; after three hours, rub well. 
Jars— To prevent, coax " husband " to buy " Buckeye Cookery.'' 
Keep an account of all supplies, with cost and date when purchased. 
Love lightens labor. 

Money— Count carefully when you receive change. 

Nutmegs— Prick with a pin, and if good, oil will run out. 

Orange and Lemon Peel— Dry, pound, and keep m corked bottles. 

Parsnips— Keep in ground until spring. 

Quicksilver and white of an egg destroys bedbugs. 

Rice— Select large, with a clear, fresh look ; old nee may have insects. 

Sugar— For general family use, the granulated is best. 

Tea— Equal parts of Japan and green are as good as English breakfast. 

Use a cement made of ashes, salt, and water for cracks in stove. 

Variety is the best culinary spice. 

Watch your back yard for dirt and bones. 

Xantippe was a scold. Do n't imitate her. 

Youth is best preserved by a cheerful temper. 

ZiNC-LiNED sinks are better than wooden ones. 

& regulate the clock by your husband's watch, and in all apportionmentsr 
of time remember the Giver. 



THE DINING-ROOM. 



It may not be amiss to give a page or two to the observances of formal 
dinners in '^society," lest some reader— who may hope, if she becomes the 
rare housekeeper we expect, to be called to give such dinners as the wife of 
a Congressman, Governor, or even as mistress of the White House itself— 
should be taken unawares. In every house, great or small, the Dining 
Room should be as bright, cheerful and cosey as possible, and at the table 
the mistress should wear her brightest smile. If there are trials and troubles, 
do not bring them to the table. They impair digestion, and send husband 
and children out to business or school, glum and gloomy, instead of refreshed 
and strengthened. The plainest room may be made beautiful by taste, and 
the homeliest fare appetizing by neatness and skill. Little attentions to the 
decoration or pretty arrangement of the table charm the eye and whet the 
appetite, and make the home table powerfully attractive. The every-day 
observance of sensible and simple table manners ought always to be encour- 
aged, because, in the long run, it promotes the comfort and the cultivation of 
the family, and takes the pain of embarrassment out of state occasions. 
Above all, the room, the table, and its furniture should be scrupulously neat 
and orderly. For formal dinners, a round table, five to seven feet in diam- 
eter, is the best fitted to display the dinner and its fine wares ; but the exten- 
sion table, about four feet wide and of any length desired, is generally used. 
At the round table, conversation is, of course, easily made general, the party 
being small. The table-cloth must be spotless, and an under-cover of white 
cloth or baize gives the linen a heavier and finer appearance. A center-piece 
of flowers is a pretty ornament (some even place upon the table a handsome 
vase filled with growing plants in bloom), but the flowers must be few and 
rare, and of delicate odors. Fruit in variety and tastefully arranged with 
green leaves, and surrounded with choice dessert-dishes, is always attractive 
and elegant. It is also a pretty custom to place a little bouquet by the side 
of each lady's plate, and to fold a bunch of three or four flowers in the 
napkin of each gentleman, to be attached to the left lapel of the coat as soon 
as seats are taken at the table. Napkins, which should never be starched, 
are folded and laid upon the plates, with a small piece of bread or a cold 
roll placed on the top, or half concealed by the last fold. Beside each plate 
are placed as many knives, forks and spoons as will be needed in all the 
courses (unless the lady prefers to have them brought with each new plate, 
which makes more work and confusion), and a glass, to be filled with fresh 
water just before dinner is announced. The plates which will be needed are 
counted out. Such as are to be filled with ready-prepared dessert-dishes are 
(392) 



THE DINING-ROOM. 



393 



filled and set in a convenient place. Dishes that need to be warm, not hot, 
are left on the top shelf of the range or elsewliere where they will be kept 
warm until needed. When the soup-tureen (with the soup at the boiling 
point) and the soup-plates are placed before the seat of the hostess, dinner 
may be quietly announced. Tlie host or hostess has, of course, previously, in- 
dicated to each gentleman the lady with whose escort he is charged, the 
guest of lionor, if a gentleman, escorting the liostess, and taking a seat at 
her right ; if a lady, being escorted by the host to a seat at his right. Each 
gentleman offers the lady assigned to hini his right arm, and escorts her to 
a seat at his left, passing her in front of him to her chair which he has 
gracefully drawn back. The distribution of seats will tax the tact of the 
hostess, as the moment of waiting to be assigned to place is extremely 
awkward. Of course, all should have been decided on beforehand, and the 
places should be designated with as little confusion as possible. The suc- 
cess of the dinner will depend largely upon the grouping of agreeable per- 
sons. The host leads the way to the dining-room, the hostess follows last, and 
all guests stand until she is seated. (In France, and at large dinner parties 
in this country, a card with the name of each guest is placed on the plate 
which is intended for him.) Once seated the rest is simple routine. Ease 
of manner of the host and hostess, and quiet and systematic movements in 
attendants, who should be well trained, alert and noiseless, but never in a 
hurry, are indispensable. Any betrayal of anxiety or embarrassment on the 
part of the former, or blundering by the latter, is a wet blanket to all enjoy- 
ment. 

The attendant places each dish in succession before the host or hostess 
(the soup, salad and dessert only being served by the hostess) w^ith the pile 
of plates. Each plate is supplied, taken by the attendant on a small salver, 
and set before the guest from the lelt. Any second dish which belongs to 
the course is presented at the left of the guest, who helps himself. As a rule 
the lady at the right of the host, or the oldest lady, should be served first. 
As soon as any one has finished, his plate is promptly removed, and when 
all are done, the next course is served in the same way. Before the dessert 
is brought on, ail crumbs should be brushed from the cloth. The finger- 
howls, which are brought in on the napkin on the dessert-plate and set off 
to the left of the plate, are used by dipping the fingers in lightly and drying 
them on the napkin. They should be half full of warm water with a bit of 
lemon floating in it. When all have finished dessert, the hostess gives the 
signal that dinner is ended by pushing back her chair, and the ladies repair 
to the drawing-room, the oldest leading and the youngest following last, and 
the gentlemen repairing to the library or smoking-room. In about half an 
liour, tea is served in the drawing-room with a cake-basket of crackers or 
little cakes, the gentlemen join the ladies, and after a little chat over their 
cups, all are at liberty to take leave. 

It is, of course, presupposed that the host carves, and carves well. If he 
does not he should forego the pleasure of inviting his friends to dinner, or the 
dinner should be from chops, ribs, or birds which do not require carving. 

25 



394 



THE HOST AND HOSTESS. 



In making up a dinner party, it is all important to know who will accept ; 
and invitations, which may be written or printed, and should be sent by mes- 
senger and never mailed to persons in the same town, should receive a prompt 
reply, a day's delay being the extreme limit. The simplest form of invitation 
and reply is best, but both must be formal, this being one of the occasions on 
which the wings of genius must be promptly clipped. Ten minutes beyond 
the appointed time, is the utmost limit of tardiness admissible in a guest, and 
ten minutes early are quite enough. 

THE HOST AND HOSTESS. 

Those who entertain should remember it is vulgar hospitality, exceedingly 
annoying to guests, to overload plates, or to insist on a second supply. If 
the guest wants more, he knows that it is a delicate compliment to a dish 
to pass his plate the second time. Too great a variety of dishes is also a 
coarse display. A few cooked to a nicety and served with grace, make the 
most charming dinners. A sensible bill of fare is soup, fish with one vege- 
table, a roast with one or two vegetables and a salad and cheese, and a dessert. 
Parties should be made up of congenial persons^ and the table should never 
be crowded. Novel dishes are great strokes of policy in dinners, but no wise 
housewife will try experiments on new dishes on such an occasion. The 
carver should serve meat as he cuts it, so far as possible, and not fill the 
platter with hacked fragments. It is ill-bred to help too abundantly, or to 
flood food with gravies, which are disliked by many. Above all, the plate 
should be served neatly. Nothing creates such disgust as a plate bedaubed 
with gravy or scattered food. It may be taken for granted that every one 
will take a piece of breast; and after that is served, it is proper to ask, " What 
part do you prefer? " The wings and legs should be j^laced crisp side upper- 
most, the stufiing should not be scattered, and the brown side or edge of 
slice should be kept from contact with vegetables or gravy, so that its deli- 
cacy may be preserved. Water should be poured at the right hand. Every 
thing else is served at the left. The hostess should continue eating until all 
guests have finished. Individual salt-dishes are used at breakfasts, but not 
at dinners, — a cruet, with salt dish and sjx)on, at each end of the table, being 
preferred as giving the table less of a hotel air. The salt dishes should be 
neatly filled. Jellies and sauces are helped on the dinner plate and not on 
side dishes. If there are two dishes of dessert, the host may serve the most 
substantial one. Fruit is served after puddings and pies, and coffee last. 
In pouring coffee, the sugar and cream is placed in the cup first. If milk is 
used, it should be scalding hot. Some prefer to make coffee strong, then 
weaken it with scalding hot milk, and pour into cups in which cream and 
sugar have previously been placed. For tea it is better to pour first and then 
add cream and sugar. In winter plates should be warmed, not made hot. 

INDIVIDUAL MANNERS. 

Manners, at table and elsewhere, are made for the convenience and com- 
fort of men, and all social observances have now, or have had at some time, 
a good reason and sound conmion sense behind them. It must be remem- 



INDIVIDUAL MANNERS. 



395 



bered, however, that the source of all good manners is a nice perception of, 
and kind consideration for, not only the rights, but the feelings and even the 
whims of others. The customs of society are adopted and observed to en- 
able us to be more agreeable, or at least not disagreeable, to friends And 
nowhere is the distinction between the gentleman and the boor more marked 
than at the table. Some persons are morbidly sensitive, and even slight im- 
proprieties create disgust ; and every true gentleman is bound to respect their 
sensitiveness and avoid giving pain, whether in sympathy with the feeling 
or not. 

As this is not an etiquette book, we can only give a few hints. Once 
seated at table, gloves are drawn off and laid in the lap under the napkin, 
which is spread lightly, not tucked in. Raw oysters are eaten with a fork ; 
soup from the side of a spoon without noise, or tipping the plate. The mouth 
should not go to the food, but food to the mouth. Eat without noise and 
with the lips closed. Friends will not care to see how you masticate your 
food, unless they are of a very investigating turn of mind. Bread should 
be broken, not cut, and should be eaten by morsels, and not broken into soup* 
or gravy. It is in bad taste to mix food on the plate. Fish must be eaten 
with the fork. Macaroni is cut and cheese crumbled on the plate, and 
eaten with a fork. Pastry should be broken and eaten with a fork, never 
cut with a knife. Game and chicken are cut, but never eaten with the bones 
held in the fingers. Oranges are peeled without breaking the inner skin, 
being held meantime on a fork. Pears are pared while held by the stem. 
Cherry-stones, or other substances which are to be removed from the mouth, 
are passed to the napkin held to the lips, and then returned to the plate. 
Salt must be left on the side of the plate, and never on the table-cloth. Cut 
with the knife, but never put it in the mouth; the fork must convey the 
food, and may be held in either hand as convenient. (Of course, when the 
old-fashioned two-tined fork is used, it would be absurd to practice this 
rule.) Food that can not be held with a fork should be eaten with a spoon. 
Never help yourself to butter or any other food with your own knife or fork. 
Never pick your teeth at table, or make any sound with the mouth in eating. 
Bread eaten with meat should not be buttered. Bread and butter is a dish 
for dessert. Eat slowly for both health and manners. Do not lean your 
arms on the table, or sit too far back, or lounge. Pay as little attention as 
possible to accidents. When asked " what do you prefer ?" name some part 
at once. When done, lay your knife and fork side by side on the plate, with 
handles to the right. When you rise from your chair leave it where it 
stands. Of course, loud talking or boisterous conduct is entirely out of place 
at table, where each should appear at his best, practicing all he can of the 
amenities of life, and observing all he knows of the forms of good society. 

BREAKFAST PARTIES. 

Breakfast parties are becoming fashionable in cities, because less formal 
and expensive than dinners, and quite as agreeable to guests. The courses, 
which are usually fewer in number, are served precisely as described for din- 



396 



BREAKFASf PARTIES— TABLE OUTFIT, 



ners. Oatmeal porridge is a favorite and healthful first course, and oranges, 
melons, and all fruits are delicious breakfast dishes. The variety of omelets 
is also a great resource, and hundreds of other delicacies and substantials 
are described elsewhere. But in breakfast— and the same is true of din- 
ners—it is better to have a few, a very few, dishes delicately and carefully 
cooked, than to attempt more and have them less perfect. In fact the trouble 
often lies in attempting too many, and the consequent hurry in the kitchen. 
At breakfast, the cotfee is set before the mistress, with cups in their saucers 
in front of it, in one or two rows. The meat with plates is set before the 
master. For an ordinary table one caster in the center is sufficient. Fruit 
is served first ; then oatmeal or cracked wheat, next meat and vegetables, fol- 
lowed by hot cakes and coffee. Meats are covered, and cakes are brought 
in between two plates. Butter is put on in small pats with lumps of 
ice about it. Honey or maple syrup, for cakes or hot biscuits, is served in 
saucers. A breakfast-table maybe spread attractively with a white cloth, 
and a scarlet and white napkin under each plate, with white table-mats 
with a scarlet border. 

For evening parties it is often less expense and trouble to place supper in 
tiie hands of a regular confectioner, but for small card or literary parties the 
trouble need not be great. For regular reception evenings, ices, cakes and 
chocolate are enough. 

In all cases where no "help" is employed it is better to have some one of 
the family wait upon the table, the daughters taking turns in serving, as the 
pleasure of a meal is greatly marred by two or three persons jumping up 
every now and then, for articles needed. 

TABLE OUTFIT. 

In the selection of table-wares, there is a wide field for the exercise of 
taste, and those whose purses permit, need not be at a loss to find the most 
elegant and artistic designs. An admirable table outfit is an elegant dessert- 
set, all the pieces of which, except the plates, may decorate the table during 
the whole dinner, and the rest of white and gijilt china. Some have table- 
ware decorated to match the colors of the dining-room, or sets of different 
patterns for each course, or harlequin sets in which each piece may be of dif- 
ferent pattern or even of different ware. Chinese and Japanese sets are also 
fashionable. In every case, ware should be the best of its kind, and for eco- 
nomy's sake should be plain, so that broken pieces may be readily and 
cheaply replaced. Light knives and forks, heavy tea-spoons, and thin glasses 
for water are most elegant. The chairs should have no arms to interfere with 
ladies' dresses, and to prevent noise the legs should be tipped with rubber. 

CliEARING THE TABLE. 

Gather up the fragments that nothing be lost or wasted. When each 
meal is over. If you do not have a crumb-cloth under the table, which, when 
the chairs are removed, can be lifted carefully at the edges and the crumbs 
shaken into the center, it is best to take a broom and sweep the crumbs 
lightly under the table until the dishes and victuals are removed, then brush 



CLEARING THE TABLE, 



397 



on a dust pan. To clear the table, bring in a dish-pan, gather up all the 
silver, cups and saucers, butter and sauce plates, and glassware, carry to the 
kitchen, place them in the sink and return with the pan. Scrape the plates 
as clean as possible and put in, add platters and vegetable dishes, saving all 
the remnants of food that are to be kept, on smaller dishes, to be taken to 
the cellar or refrigerator. To wash the dishes, have clear hot w^ater in the 
pan, and first wash the silver without soap or cloth, using only the hands; 
if any are greasy, wipe with a soft paper before putting in the water, rinse 
in clear hot water and wipe off immediately on a perfectly dry, soft, clean 
towel ; in this way the silver is kept bright, and does not get scratched. Add 
some soap in the water, make a suds, wash the glassware, rinse and wipe 
dry. Next take cups and saucers and so on, leaving those most greasy till 
the last. Always keep a clean dish-cloth. One lady writes, ''I have smelt 
a w^hole houseful of typhoid fever in one sour, dirty dish-rag." Many pre- 
fer the use of three dish-cloths, one for the nicest articles, one for the greasy 
dishes, and one for the pots and kettles, keeping each cloth perfectly sweet 
and clean, and, after using it, w^ashing, rinsing, and hanging to dry on a 
small rack kept for this purpose. The tow^el for wiping dishes may also dry 
here. A dish mop or swab for washing small deep articles is convenient. 

Let no one suppose that because she lives in a small house, and dines on 
homely fare, that the general principles here laid down do not apply to her. 
A small house is more easily kept clean than a palace; taste may be quite 
as well displayed in the arrangement of dishes on a pine table as in 
grouping the silver and china of the rich. Skill in cooking is as readily 
shown in a baked potato or a johnny-cake as in a canvass-back duck. The 
charm of good housekeeping lies in a nice attention to little things, not in a 
superabundance. A dirfy kitchen and bad cooking have driven many a hus- 
band and son, and many a daughter too, from a home that should have been 
a refuge from temptation. " Bad dinners go hand in hand with total deprav- 
ity; while a properly fed man is already half saved.' 



THE KITCHEN. 



It is almost impossible to give any directions except in a general way re- 
garding the kitchen, as there is an endless variety of plans and arrangement. 
In no other room in the house are sunlight and fresh, pure air so indispen- 
sable as in the room where the most important work must be done. A long, 
narrow, dark kitchen is an abomination. Always furnish the kitchen well 
first, and if there is any thing left to spend on the parlor, well ; if not the 
money has been spent wisely. The main point is to systematize every thing, 
grouping such things as belong to any particular kind of work. For instance, 
in baking do not go to the china closet for a bowl, across the kitchen for 
the flour, and to the farther end of the pantry or store-room for an egg, when 
they may all just as well be within easy reach of each other. Study and 
contrive to bring order out of the natural chaos of the kitchen, and the head 
will save the hands and feet much labor. 

If kitchen floors are made of hard wood and simply oiled two or three 
times a year, no grease spot is made when grease drops on them, for it can be 
easily wiped up — carpet or paint is not advisable. Neither paint nor paper 
the walls, but once a year apply a coat of the good old-fashioned whitewash. 
Bo not have the wood-work painted ; the native wood well oiled and var- 
nished lightly is much the best finish. A wide, roomy dresser is a great 
convenience ; it should have two wide closets below and three narrower ones 
above, with a row of drawers at top of lower closets. Here should be kept 
all pots and kettles, sauce-pans, waffle-irons, kitchen crockery, tins, etc., all 
arranged and grouped together so as to be convenient for use. If possible, 
have good sliding doors, and at top and bottom of same have a narrow sliding 
panel for a ventilator, which should be closed when sweeping. By this ar- 
rangement every article of kitchen ware can be inclosed from the dust and 
flies. A well-appointed sink is a necessity in every kitchen, and should be 
near both window and range, so as to have light, and also be convenient to 
the hot water. It should be provided with a "grooved" and movable dish- 
drainer, set so as to drain into the sink. Always have bracket or wall lamps 
placed at each end, or at the sides, so that the room may be well lighted in 
the evening. When possible, a long table at the end of the sink, and so 
close to it that water can not drip between, on which to dress vegetables, 
poultry, game, etc., saves time and steps; and the good light, which is a 
necessity in this part of the room, leaves no excuse for slighted or slovenly 
work. Under this table may be two drawers, with compartments in one for 
polishing materials, chamois leather, and articles needed for scouring tin and 
copper ; and in the other, articles for keeping the stove or range in order. 
(398) 



THE KITCHEN. 



399 



Back of the table and sink, the wall should be ceiled with wood for three 
feet above them, and here may be put up galvanized iron hooks and nails on 
which to hang basting-spoons, ladles, cooking forks and spoons, the chop- 
ping-knife, cake-turner, etc. A set of drawers close at hand for salt, pepper, 
and spices is also convenient. There should never be bevel, beading, or mold- 
ing on kitchen window or door frames ; and the kitchen door, leading to the 
dining room, should be faced with rubber and closed with a not too strong 
spring. Not less than three large window^s are desirable in every kitchen, 
which should be cheerful, pleasant, well ventilated, convenient and clean. 

In houses of the old style there was either no pantry at all, the kitchen 
being furnished with a dresser and shelves, or it was merely a small closet to 
hold the articles in less common use. In modern houses the pantry is next 
in importance to the kitchen, and it should be so arranged as to accommo- 
date all the appliances used in cookery, as well as the china, glass-ware, cut- 
lery, and other articles for the table, unless a dresser is used as before sug- 
gested. In arranging a plan for building, the pantry should receive careful 
consideration, as next in importance to the kitchen ; it should be sufficiently 
roomy, open into both the dining-room and the kitchen, and, in order to 
"save steps," should be as convenient to the range or cooking-stove as cir- 
cumstances will allow. The window should be placed so as to give light 
without infringing on the shelving; the shelves should be so arranged as to 
not obstruct the light from it ; the lower ones should be two and a half feet 
from the floor, and two feet or more in width, and project about three inches 
beyond the closets and drawers below ; and the part near the window, where 
there is no shelving, may be used for molding and preparing pastry, and 
such other work as may be most conveniently done here. Other shelves, or 
a china closet, should be provided for the china and other table furniture in 
every-day use. The pantry should have an abundance of drawers and 
closets, of w^hich it is hardly possible to have too many— the upper closets 
for the' nicer china and glass, and the lower ones to hold pans and other 
cooking utensils in less frequent use. The drawers are for table-linen and 
the many uses the housekeeper will find for them. If possible the window 
should be on the north side, but in any case it should have blinds for shade, 
and a wire gauze or other screen to keep out flies. 

Use a cloth to wash potatoes. It is no trouble to keep one for this purpose, 
and it will save hands and time. Some prefer a brush. Tie a strip of muslin 
on the end of a round stick, and use to grease bread and cake-pans, gem- 
irons, etc. Have two large pockets in your kitchen apron, and in one of 
theni always keep a holder. A piece of clam or oyster shell is much better 
than a knife to scrape a kettle, should you be so unfortunate as to burn any 
thing on it. If you use a copper tea-kettle, keep an old dish with sour milk 
and a cloth in it, wash the kettle with this every morning, afterward washing 
off w^ith clear water, and it will always look bright and new. Cut a very 
ripe tomato and rub over a kitchen table to remove grease. The juice will 
also remove stains from and whiten the hands. 

If you use oil, buy the best kerosene. To test it, place a small quantity 



400 



THE KITCHEN. 



in a tea-cup, and if it does not easilj^ ignite when brought into contact with 
a lighted taper or match, it is good ; poor oil will ignite instantly. Keep 
oil in a ten-gallon can, with a faucet at the lower part, so as to draw off into 
a smaller can or lamp-filler ; set the large can in a cool, dark place ; keep all 
the articles used for cleaning, filling, and trimming lamps by themselves. 
For these purposes provide an old waiter (to hold the things), a lamp-filler, 
pair of scissors or a lamp-trimmer, box of wicks, soap, washing soda, and 
several soft cloths and towels, also a wire hairpin with which to keep open 
the vent in the burner. When lamps need an extra cleaning, add one table- 
spoon soda to a quart of water, being careful that none of the bronze or 
gilding comes in contact with the soda. The wick should touch the bottom 
of the lamp and be trimmed square across. When the wick becomes too 
short to carry up the kerosene, and if you have not time to put in a new 
wick, a piece of cotton rag pinned on below will prove a good feeder. When 
the burners of lamps become gummy and prevent the wicks moving freely, 
boil them up in suds over the fire a short time, and they will become entirely 
clean and work well. Lamps may become incrusted inside with settlings 
from the oil, and ordinary washing will not remove it. Take soap-suds and 
fill the lamp about one-third full, then put in a little sharp sand, and shake 
vigorously. A few minutes will remove every particle of settlings. Always 
fill the lamps every day and in the day-time ; never fill a lamp after dark 
near a lighted lamp. When lighting a lamp turn the wick up slowly so that 
the chimney is gradually heated. When taking a lamp from a warm room 
into a cold one, first turn down the wick ; do not fill too full, as the heat ex- 
pands the oil and drives it out making the lamp dirty and dangerous. Never 
light or burn an almost empty lamp, as the empty space is nearly always 
filled with a very explosive gas. Before putting out a lamp turn it down 
until the wick is below the top of tube ; as if left above it the oil gradually 
works out through the wick and runs down over the burner and lamp. Turn 
the flame down low, and wave a fan, book, or paper across the top of the 
chimney. Blowing down a chimney is very dangerous when a lamp is nearly 
empty and turned up high. Never start a fire with the oil. Buy the best 
lamp chimneys by the dozen. The best are cheapest, and it is convenient to 
have fresh ones on hand when one is broken at an inopportune time. A piece 
of sponge fastened on the end of a stick or wire is the best thing with which 
to clean lamp chimneys. Or, hold them over the nose of the tea-kettle when 
the kettle is boiling furiously. One or two repetitions of this process will make 
them beautifully clear. Of course they must be wiped upon a clean cloth. 

Fill new tin pans with boiling water (having a little soda in it), let stand 
on a warm part of the range for a while wash in strong soap-suds, rinse, and 
dry well. Scouring tins very often with whiting or ashes wears them out; 
if properly taken care of, washed in suds and thoroughly dried, they will 
not need scouring. 

Boil ashes or a bunch of hay or grass in a new iron pot before cooking in 
it; scour well with soap and sand, then fill with clean water, and boil one or 
two hours. To remove the taste of wood, first scald the vessel well witli 



THE KITCHEN. 



401 



boiling water, letting the water remain in it till cold; then dissolve 
sal-soda or soda, (two pounds to a barrel of water) in lukewarm water, 
adding a little bit of lime to it, and wash the inside of the vessel well 
wnth this solution; afterward scald it well with plain hot water, and 
rinse it with cold water before you use it. Knives for the table should 
never be used to cook with ; those for the former purpose may be a 
cheap plated set for every-day use, and should be kept by themselves, 
and never allowed to be used in the kitchen. Never place a range or 
cooking stove opposite a door or window if it can be avoided, as any 
draft will prevent the oven from baking well. 

A necessity in the kitchen, because a great protection against clothes 
taking fire, is a large kitchen apron made full length with bib, and sleeves 
if wished, the skirt to button close around the dress-skirt. A wooden mat 
(made by laying down six pieces of lath eleven inches long, one inch wide,, 
and an inch apart, and nailing^ across these, at right angles, six other similar 
pieces, about the same distance apart) is a great protection to the kitchen 
table, which should be of ash. Hot kettles and pans from the stove may be 
set on this without danger, as the construction of the mat secures a circula- 
tion of air under it. 

It is the "little foxes that spoil the vines" in the kitchen as well as else- 
^.here— the neglect of little things causes loss of time, patience and 
money. In hvulding fires concentration in the important point: 1st, the fuel 
should be concentrated, that is, put together in a compact heap; and 2d, in a 
place on the grating where the draft can be concentrated upon it These two 
points gained it is an easy matter to produce a brisk fire. When the 
kindling, which must be dry and in sufficient quantity, is well started, the 
wood or coal, as the case may be, is so put on that the draft and flame will 
pass directly through the fuel. In starting a fire, all depends upon having 
the conditions right, and great loss of time, and even patience, is incurred 
if they are not provided. Always have wood in the box. This can gener- 
ally be done without taking special time for it, by remembering to bring 
some in when you pass the wood-pile without any thing in the hands. See 
that the wood-box is full at night, and the shavings and kindlings in their 
place. In the morning empty the ash-pan, or, better still, clean your stov« 
or range at night. This can always be done, except in case of late suppers. 
When supper is ready, and there is no further use for the fire, open the 
oven doors, take all the covers partly off the holes, and by the time the 
supper dishes and needful work in the preparation for breakfast is done, if 
the fire has been properly attended to, the stove will be cool enough to clean 
out, which should be thoroughly done, removing all the ashes or cinders 
from every part of it. This is a very particular work, as the corners often 
secrete quite an amount of ashes that must be removed if you would have 
a perfectly cleaned stove. Rap on the sides of the pipes, to dislodge the 
soot and ashes that collect there, sweep all out with a long-handled brush- 
broom and the stove is ready to receive the shavings, kindlings and wood 
for the fire. 



402 



THE KITCHEN. 



Where there is a large amount of cooking to be done, the ashes should be 
cleared from under the slides of the ovens as often as twice a week in large 
or small families ; this will insure the oven to bake well, and always the 
same, if the fire is properly arranged. 

Never on any account use coal-oil to make the fire burn more quickly. In 
making the fire, as soft wood burns more quickly than hard, it is better to 
have some with which to start it, filling up with hard wood. If the wood 
is good and properly placed you will have a bright clear flame, yielding a 
great amount of heat which should be utilized f(jr cooking purposes, by so 
arranging the draught that none of it is wasted. This can only be done by 
one who so perfectly understands each part of it as to economize in the use 
of fuel. The fire needs constant attention, as it is poor economy to let the 
fire go partially out, as in adding fresh fuel the heat is wasted until the 
stove and oven are again heated to the right temperature for cooking. 

Fill the tea-kettle full of water and place on the stove, and if the fire is 
good it will boil soon enough for use, and every time water is used, add 
cold, so as to keep the supply good. The habit is almost universal to put a 
small quantity of water in the tea-kettle, aiming to have just enough for 
certain things, and if an extra demand occurs the kettle is empty, the fire 
is out, and the delay occasions no little trouble to both cook and mistress. 
When water has been made to boil no matter what is cooking in it, the fire 
may be very much lessened, as but little heat is required to keep it boiling. 
Kapid boiling does not hasten cooking, and the articles cooked are much 
better when boiled slowly. 

For general use copper and brass cooking utensils are not the best, be- 
cause of the great care necessary to keep them clean and free from poisonous 
deposits, a work that crni never be trusted to servants. Care should be used in 
cooking in tin vessels, as they are liable to be affected by acids, oils and salt, 
but not to the same extent as copper. For all ordinary cooking purposes, if 
tin vessels are kept clean and free from rust, no injury will result. A little 
whiting or dry flour may be used to polish tin with. If a kettle is to be 
used for cooking fish, heat it first over the fire ; if an odor arises, it needs 
•cleaning as above, before using. If the same gridiron has to be used for 
broiling steak, that has been used for fish, in addition to cleaning it as above, 
heat it over the fire, rub well with brown paper, then with an onion. In 
washing tin ware use soft water and soap, and wash well, rinse with hot 
w^ater, wipe well, and put on the hearth or stove to dry perfectly ; once a 
w^eek wash tin-ware in water in which a little sal-soda has been dissolved; 
take the suds for the pots and kettles (if not hot add more hot water), and 
w^ash and rinse thoroughly on the inside. To wash the outside of pots, ket- 
tles and all iron ware, place in a tub or large dish-pan, and with soap on 
cloth, rub them briskly and hard; if necessary scrape with an iron spoon or 
old knife to get all dirt off, rinse in hot water, Mnpe, and place on stove to 
<iry. If kept scrupulously clean, oysters, tomatoes, and even some delicacies 
that are usually cooked in porcelain and granite ware, may be cooked nicely 
in iron. 



THE KITCHES . 



403 



Enameled ware may be cleansed by filling the vessel with hot water, with 
soda dissolved in it— one ounce to a gallon ; let it boil twenty minutes; then 
if the stain does not all come off, scour with fine sand or brick dust; rinse 
w^ell with hot water and wipe dry. If by carelessness or accident, while 
making chow-chow, or any thing else, it becomes burned on the porcelain 
kettle, empty immediately, fill with water, put in about pint of wood-ashes 
to two gallons of water, let it boil twenty or thirty minutes; clean with sand 
or brick-dust as above, if it does not all come off. In either case, if unsuc- 
cessful the first time, repeat. To clean a brown porcelain kettle, boil peeled 
potatoes in it. The porcelain will be rendered nearly as white as when new. 

To clean silver or plated ware, wash in clean hot water or lay in hot soda 
water a few minutes; then wipe dry with a canton flannel cloth, and polish 
with chamois skin. If silver powder is used for cleaning tarnished spots, 
€are must be taken to brush out all the dust from the chased work on the 
plate. In the daily use of silver, wash in clean hot water and wipe dry 
with a canton flannel cloth. Never use soap in washing silver. 

Steel knives and forks are best cleaned by being scoured with bath brick, 
but some good "kitchen maids" always use the common brick pulverized, 
with good success. Have a properly made knife-box, with board extending, 
on which to lay the knife to scour, wet a cloth in hot water or soft soap and 
water, dip in the dust which has been previously shaved off; then rub 
briskly and hard until all spots are removed ; wash and rinse in clean, hot 
water and wipe dry. Never put a knife in hot fat, as it destroys the temper, 
and the knife is useless. 

The sink comes in for special notice. Wash it daily with soap and water, 
rinse with clean boiling water, always rinsing with hot wdter after pouring suds 
into it. This can not be insisted on too strongly, because of such great im- 
portance in the cleanliness of the kitchen. The old adage, "A time for 
every thing," applies here. On Mondays and Thursdays, during summer, 
pour hot water, containing a little chloride of lime, into the drains, and 
every Monday in winter. This will prevent all unpleasant or unhealthy 
odors. The use of soda in cleansing our wares greatly diminishes the quan- 
tity of soap needed. As a general thing, too much soap is used in washing 
dishes. Many good housekeepers do not allow soap used in washing dishes 
at all, except to clean tin and iron ware, dish cloths and sink. In cleaning 
an unpainted kitchen floor, if there are spots of grease on it, put some soft- 
soap (or lye, if to be had) in a tin-cup, kept for the purpose; place on the 
stove until boiling hot; then pour a little on each spot and scour with ashes; 
wash the floor with soft hot water, rinse well, and, if the grease is not out 
the first time, try it again when the floor needs cleaning. Always remem- 
ber to rinse thoroughly, changing the water when it becomes too dirty. In 
cleaning floors, tables, or wood-work, remember to rub always with, and not 
across, the grain of the wood. 

The breakage of dishes in some houses is fearful. There are very few 
families rich enough to bear it, much less the families of small means or just 
a competence. The mother is sick or wearied with the cares of the nursery, 



404 



THE KITCHEN. 



and can not see to the putting away of the best china, which has been used 
because a friend dined with them. While conversing with her guest, she 
hears a crasli in the kitchen. It is with difficulty she remains calm until the 
guest departs, when she finds a cup has fallen and cracked her nice tureen, 
and broke a nick out of two or three saucers ; or several goblets, set in a care- 
less place, have fallen and are broken. She is sick at heart, for it was but 
a few weeks before she had spent fifteen or twenty dollars to replace her 
broken, cracked, and nicked dishes. Little comfort does she get from 
Bridget, who replies: "La, madam, it was but a few of your dishes, and sure 
I could not help it. I would not think the likes of ye would make such a 
fuss." Every wise housekeeper will distinguish between carelessness and 
accidents. To correct this evil, and stop this great waste, the only way is ta 
have help understand they must replace each broken or nicked dish (for 
a nick in a dish is as bad as a break), or have the cost of them deducted from 
their wages. This will cause two very valuable results. The servant will 
become more careful, which will add much to the comfort of the mistress,, 
and will also form a habit of carefulness that will fit her to become a good 
housekeeper. 

There is an old and true saying, that "a woman can throw^ out with a 
spoon faster than a man can throw in with a shovel." In cooking meats, for 
instance, unless watched, the cook will throw out the water without letting 
it cool to take off the fat, or scrape the dripping-pan into the swill-pail. This 
grease is useful in many ways. Bits of meat are thrown out which would 
make good hashed meat or hash; the flour is sifted in a wasteful manner, or 
the bread-pan left with dough sticking to it; pie-crust is left and laid by to 
sour, instead of making a few tarts for tea ; cake-batter is thrown out because 
but little is left; cold puddings are considered good for nothing, when often 
they can be steamed for the next day, or, as in case of rice, made over in 
other forms; vegetables are thrown away that would warm for breakfast 
nicely ; dish-towels are thrown down where mice can destroy them ; soap is 
left in water to dissolve, or more used than is necessary ; the scrub-brush is 
left in the water, pails scorched by the stove, tubs and barrels left in the sun 
to dry and fall apart, chamber-pails allowed to rust, tins not dried, and iron- 
ware rusted; nice knives are used for cooking in the kitchen, silver spoons 
used to scrape kettles, or forks to toast bread ; cream is allowed to mold and 
spoil, mustard to dry in the pot, and vinegar to corrode the casters; tea, 
roasted coflfee, pepper, and spices to stand open and lose their strength ; the 
molasses-jug loses the cork and the flies take possession; vinegar is drawn in 
a basin and allowed to stand until both basin and vinegar are spoiled ; sugar 
is spilled from the barrel, coffee from the sack, and tea from the chest; dif- 
ferent sauces are made too sweet, and both sauce and sugar are wasted ; dried 
fruit has not been taken care of m season, and becomes wormy; the vinegar 
on pickles loses strength or leaks out, and the pickles become soft; potatoes 
in the cellar grow, and the sprouts are not removed until they become worth- 
less; apples decay for want of looking over; pork spoils for want of salt, and 
beef because the brine wants scalding; hams become tainted or filled with 



THE KITCHEN. 



405 



vermin, for want of the right protection ; dried beef becomes so hard it can't 
be cut;' cheese molds and is eaten by mice or vermin; bones are burnt that 
will make soap ; ashes ar» thrown out carelessly, endangering the premises, 
and wasting them ; servants leave a light and tire burning in the kitchen, 
w^ien they are out all the evening ; clothes are whipped to pieces in the wind ; 
fine cambrics rubbed on the board, and laces torn in starching; brooms are 
never hung up, and are soon spoiled ; carpets are swept with stubs hardly fit 
to scrub the kitchen, and good new brooms used for scrubbing; towels are 
used in place of holders, and good sheets to iron on, taking a fresh one every 
week; table linen is thrown carelessly down, and is eaten by mice, or put 
away damp and is mildewed ; or the fruit-stains are forgotten, and the stains 
washed in; table-cloths and napkins used as dish-wipers; mat^ forgotten to 
be put under hot dishes; tea-pots melted by the stove; water forgotten in 
pitchers, and allowed to freeze in winter; slops for cows and pigs never 
saved ; china used to feed cats and dogs on ; and in many other ways a care- 
less or inexperienced housekeeper wastes, without heeding, the hard-earned 
wages of her husband. Economy counts nowhere so well as in the kitchen. 

Tea.— Keep tea in a close chest or canister. 
Bread.— Keep bread or cake in a tin box or stone jar. 
Nutmegs.— Alwavs grate nutmegs at the blossom end first. 
Coffee.— Keep coffee by itself, and closely covered. 
Red Ants.— Scatter branches of sweet-fern where they congregate. 
Salt Fish are quickest and best freshened by soaking m sour milk 
Stain on Spoons from boiled egg is removed by rubbing with a little salt, 
or washing in water in which potatoes have been boiled 
To Preserve Milk.— A spoonful of grated horse-radish will keep a pan 

of milk sweet for days. ' ^ . ^ ^ i i • 

The Taste of Fish may be removed very effectively from steel knives and 
forks by rubbing them with fresh orange or lemon peel. • . ^ . 

Corks.— When corks are too large to go into a bottle, throw them into hot 
water a few moments, and they will soften. 

Charred Casks.— Water and salt meat may be preserved pure a long time 
if put up in casks with the inside charred. . 

To Keep Cutlery from Rust.— Wipe dry, and wrap in coarse brown 

^^Tm Tea-kettles.— Kerosene oil will make tin tea-kettles as bright as new. 
Saturate a woolen rag and rub with it. . . r li. -ru i 

To Beat the Whites of Eggs quickly, put in a pinch of salt, ihe cooler 
the eggs, tlie quicker they will froth. Salt cools and also freshens them 

Pastry.— Wash the upper crust of pies with milk just before putting them 
in the oven, and it will be a beautiful brown. 

Corn Starch is a good substitute for eggs in cookies and doughnuts. Une 
table-spoonful of the starch is equal to one egg. 

Salt will curdle new milk ; hence, in preparing milk porridge, gravies, 
etc., the salt should not be added until the dish is prepared. ^ , • v.* •# 

Wire Table Ware— should never be scoured; it will remain bright it 
merely washed in clean water with a little soap added. . . . . 

To Make Meats Tender.— A spoonful of vinegar put into the water m 
which meats or fowls are boiled makes them tender. . j i 

Oranges.— Oranges and lemons keep best wrapped m soft paper, and lam 
in a drawer. Lemons may be kept in cold water, which should be changed 

t^vice a week • j 

Silver Polish.— To one quart rain-water add two ounces ammonia and 



406 



THE KITCHEN. 



Cement for China.— The whites of two eggs, and enough ouicklime tn 
form a thick paste. The quicklime should be finely powderfd • This nXs^ 
good cement tor mending broken china, marble, or glass ware ' 

LEMONS.— Before using lemons for any purpose, always roil them awhile 
TfjcT ^ ^'^^^ '"^'^ '^^"^ large quandtj^ 

Covering for Jars.— A good water-proof paper for covering jars used in 
preserving, etc. may be made by brushing over the paper with boiled h'nseed 
oil and suspending it over a line until dry ^ ^ ^ nnseea 

To Remove a Tight Glass STOPPER.-Apply a cloth wet in hot water to 
the neck of the bottle; or wind a cord around once, and saw ''back and 
forth a tew times. This will heat and expand the neck of the bottle 

lo ( LEAN KNivEs.-Cut a good-sized, solid, raw potato in two; dip the 
flat siirtace in powdered brick-dust, and rub the knife-blades; or use a cork 
or a cloth m same way. Stains and rust will disappear ' 

Ground Tea.-K tea be ground like coffee, or crushed, immediately before 

^'^^^ --^^ amount of Ttl 

To Freshen WALNUTS.—When walnuts have been kept until the meat is 

^^^'''''IV^'^^'^ \^ S^^^' ^^^'^^ s^and in milk and water eight hour^ 
and dry them, and they will be as fresh as when new ^ ' 

Clinkers may be removed from grates and range back, by throwing half a 
dozen broken oyster shells into the fire, when the coal is aglow and cover nl 

^''removed ^^^^'^ ^^^"^^^^ ^^^^^^ doughy and Lrf 

A Fire KiNDLER.-Melt together three pounds resin and a quart of tar 
and stir in as much saw-dust and pulverized charcoal as possibirspread the 
mass on a board to cool, and break into lumps the size of fwalnuf Lig^^ 
one with a match, and it burns for some time with a strong blaz^ ^ 

To Clean biLVEE.-- Indexical Soap" is the best thing for the puroose in 
use, not for every day, but when thorough cleaning is required It TwelT 
also, to keep it in a convenient dish, and rub on with a bit of flannel when, 
ever a spot appears on the silver. "aimei wnen 

oo?"^ ^.^^^""^ ^f'^^^ KETTLE.-When much discolored, scour with soap and 
a^hes, then put in a half pint vinegar and a handful of salt, put on st^ve 
let come to a boil, take cloth, wash thoroughly, and rinse out with 4ater 

To ^l.r''^w^^' ti^^^^lt vinegar and^insing are sufficient * 

To Soften WATER.-Hard water is rendered very soft and pure rivaling 
Thl oU by merely boiling a two-ounce vial, say, in a ke^tUe o?water^ 

Lttl. Thf w""/ 1^;^?,^"^ many impurities will be found adhering toThe 
bottle. The water boils very much quicker at the same time 

KusT ON Steel Implements or Knives.— Cover the steel with sweet oil 
rubbing it on well. Let it remain for forty-eight hour^ and Verisf^^^ 
peatV'''' ^ ^'"""'^ ''''^ '''''^ the rust has'dTslp? 

To Preserve Lamp Chimneys from BREAKiro.— Place a cloth in the bot- 
tom of a arge pan, fill the pan with cold water, and place new chimnev in 
It ; cover the pan, and let it^ contents boil one hour : take fronT fire and let 
chimney remain in the water until it is cold ' 

Cement for Knife Handles.— Set handle on end, and partly fill cavitv 
with powdered resin chopped hair or tow, chalk, whitinf, or quickS 
heat the spike of the knife and force it into its pl^ce. Equarparts of Tul- 
phur, resin, and brick-dust also make an excellent cement!^ ^ 
iwlt'^f' • ? 'a P^vanized iron becomes poisonous, and cold water passed 
through zinc-lined iron pipes should never be used for cooking ordrinkfng 
Hot wa er for cooking should never be taken from hot-wate? pipes take 
from cold-water pipes, and keep a supply heated for use in kettles^ ' 



THE KITCHEN. 



407 



Table Cover, to be thrown over table after it is set, is best made of calico. 
Pink mosquito netting is handsomer, but does not keep off dust when the 
table is set for next meal immediately after the dishes are washed— the most 
convenient plan where the dining-room is not used for other purposes. 

Vienna Lime.— Vienna lime and alcohol give a beautiful polish to iron 
or steel. Select the soft pieces of lime, such as will be easily crushed by 
the thumb and finger, as they are the most free from gritty particles. Ap- 
ply with a cork, piece of soft pine wood, leather, chamois, etc. 

Hot Alum-water is the best insect-destroyer known. Put the alum into 
hot water, and let it boil till it is all dissolved ; then apply the solution hot 
with a brush to all cracks, closets, bedsteads, and other places where any 
insects are found. Ants, bedbugs, cockroaches, and creeping things are killed 
by it, while it has no danger of poisoning. 

To Prevent Kusting of Tin, rub fresh lard over every part of the disli, 
and then put in a hot oven and heat it thoroughly. Thus treated, any tin- 
ware may be used in water constantly, and remain bright and free from rust. 
To clean tin or other metallic vessels which have held petroleum— hot soap 

and water. , . j j *i 

Cabb\ge Water.— Be careful that no cabbage water is poured down the 
kitchen-sink, as the smell of it— a singularly unpleasant one— is so strong 
that it will penetrate all over the house, and produce the suspicion of a bad 
drain. The water in which any vegetable has been boiled, should be thrown 
away out of doors, in a distant corner of the garden, if possible. 

Pulverized Charcoal— should be kept in every house in a gl^s jar, 
with a wide mouth, containing a half pint. The coal should be freshly 
burned— the best is not from the hardest or the softest wood, but a me- 
dium— pulverized finely in a mortar while the coals are yet red. Cork 
tight; it is invaluable in j)reserving meats and poultry, and is sometimes 
even given as a remedy for indigestion. 

The Smell of Onions and other odors can be removed from kettles and 
sauce-pans. Put some wood ashes into the utensil, add boiling water, and let 
It stand a short time on the back part of the stove. Or, if you have no wood- 
ashes, use potash, soda, or concentrated lye with water, then wash in hot 
suds. All cooking utensils in which onions, cabbage, or turnips have been 
cooked should be thus cleansed. -,. . i v 

Boiled Potatoes, to be at their best, should be served immediately when 
done, but if the "men folks" are late to dinner, take them up the moment 
they are done, wrap closely in a towel or cloth and lay them in the neater or 
some warm place, and they will suffer only a little damage. When baked or 
roasted potatoes are done, place in a cloth, and squeeze gently between the 
hands and serve. They will be the mealier for it. If not ready to serve, 
roll in cloth and keep warm until wanted. . . , 

Polishing.— Flour of emery, which is cheap and is kept at all drug-stores, 
is excellent for polijihing every thing except silver. Common water-lirae, 
such as is used in plastering cisterns, is an excellent material for polishing 
knives, forks, and tin-ware. First rub tins with a damp cloth, then take dry 
flour and rub it on with the hands, and afterward take an old newspaper and 
rub the tin until bright. Keep in an old pepper-box, and apply with a damp 

^^QuicK Vinegar.— Fill a jug with cider, and turn into each gallon of cider 
a pint of molasses and a cupful of lively yeast. Have the jug full ol tne 
liquid, let it stand uncorked back of the cook-stove where it will keep warm. 
It will commence fermenting in twenty-four hours, and will not take over a 
week to make splendid sharp vinegar. It must be drawn oti into anotiier 
jug, leaving the dregs, and kept in a tight-corked jug or bottles, where it 

will not freeze. ,,,131, ^ n„ 

To Wash Preserve Jars.— Preserve jars or bottles should be carefully 
washed as soon as emptied, taking care that the stoppers And covers have 
their share of attention. It is well to put soda or ammonia into the jars or 



408 



THE KITCHEN. 



bottles, fill up with water, and let stand an hour, putting the stoppers or 
covers into a howl to soak in the same way. Then pour out and scald nicely, 
but not with boiling water, as that cracks the polished surface inside, wipe 
dry, set in the sun or wind to air, and then set away carefully. 

Coffee Syrup.— Take half a pound of the best ground coffee ; put it into 
a sauce-pan containing three pints of water, and boil it down to one pint: 
boil the liquor, put it into another sauce-pan, well scoured, and boil it again. 
As it boils add white sugar enough to give the consistency of syrup; take it 
from the fire, and when it is cool put in a bottle and seal. When traveling, 
if you wish for a cup of gOod coffee put two tea-spoons of the syrup into an 
ordinary cup, and pour boiling water upon it, and it is ready to use. 

Rhubarb Vinp:gar.— For ten gallons, take twenty-five ordinary sized stalks 
of rhubarb, pound or crush with a piece of wood in the bottom of a strong 
tub, add ten gallons water; let stand twenty-four hours; strain off the 
<)rushed rhubarb, and add eighteen pounds of sugar free from molasses, and 
a teacup best brewer's yeast; raise the temperature to 65 or 68°, and put the 
•compound into a twelve-gallon cask ; place it in a position where the temper- 
ature will not fall below 60°. In a month strain it off from the grounds re- 
turning it to the cask again, and let it stand till it becomes vinegar. 

Washing Dishes.— In washing dishes, in addition to directions given in 
" Dining Room," care must be taken not to put tumblers which have had 
milk in them into hot water, as it drives the milk into the glass, whence it 
can never be removed. They should be first rinsed well in tepid water. 
Tumblers and goblets should be placed in hot soapy water, dipping the 
sides first, and turning them rapidly, thus heating the outside and inside at 
the same time and preventing breaking ; when wiped, they should not be 
turned down until put away in a china closet. 

To Keep Table Cloths Clean— for a long time. After clearing the table, 
place a clean towel under any spots that may have been made during dinner 
and rub the spot with a fresh clean cloth wet with clean soap-suds, then 
rinse with clean water, dry with a clean dry towel, fold and lay under a 
heavy weight. In changing table cloths during the week, contrive to bring 
the fresh table cloth on first at dinner. Place a large napkin over each end 
of table cloth, to protect it from soiling in the process of serving the plates, 
removing when the crumbs are brushed. 

Warmed-over Coffee.— Save all that is left each meal, drain it off into a jar 
or earthen vessel, and when there is enough for a single meal, turn it into 
the coffee pot, beat an egg thoroughly and stir well into it on the stove, and 
let It just come to boiling, then take it off, pour in half a tea-cup- of cold 
water, and if your coffee was good when first made, it will be just as good 
the second time. 

When a large quantity of coffee has been made for a party, the grounds 
should be drained and put away in a stone jar;- make coffee as usual except 
using double the quantity. It will keep good for weeks. 

To Clean Coffee or Tea-pots.— Musty coffee-pots and tea-pots may be 
cleaned and sweetened by putting a good quantity of wood ashes into them 
and filling up with cold water. Set on the stove to heat graduallv till the 
water boils. Let it boil a short time, then set aside to cool, when the inside 
should be faithfully washed and scrubbed in hot soap-suds, using a small 
brush that every spot may be reached; then scald two or three times, and 
wipe till well dried. Pots and pans or plates that have been used for baking 
and grown rancid, may be cleansed in the same way. Put the plates into a 
pan with wood ashes and cold water, and proceed as above stated. If no 
wood ashes can be had, take soda. Pie-plates and baking-dishes cleaned after 
this fashion will keep sweet all the time. 

Beans for Winter.— String fresh green beans, and cut down the sides till 
within an inch of the end, boil in water fifteen minutes, take out and drain ; 
when cold, pack in a stone jar, first putting two table-spoons of salt in the bot^ 
torn, then a quart of beans, sprinkle with a table-spoon of salt, put in layer 



THE KITCHEN. 



409 



after layer in this way till the crock is full, pour over a pint (if not filled 
the first time, beans may be added until filled, putting in no more water 
after this pint) of cold well-water, put on a cloth with a plate and weight, 
set away in a cool place, and in about a week take off the cloth, wash it out 
in a little salt water (tliere will be a scum upon it), put back as before, and 
repeat operation at the end of another week ; then pack away, and when 
wanted for use, take out the quantity wanted and soak for half an hour, 
put in pot in cold water with a piece of fresh pork, cook half an hour, 
season with pepper and a little salt if needed ; or cook without pork, and 
season with butter and pepper. 

Soldering Liquid. — In soldering tin-ware, especially in mending old ware, 
the use of soldering liquids will greatly help. There are several of these. 
The best is made as follows: Get any convenient vial about half full of mu- 
riatic acid ; procure at the tin-shop some scraps of sheet zinc ; if you have 
no strong shears, let the tinsmith cut the zinc into strips narrow enough to 
enter the vial. Place the vial out-doors, or under a shed, and add a strip or 
two of zinc. A great bubbling or boiling will take place as the zinc dis- 
solves. As one piece of zinc dissolves add another, and when a piece re- 
mains without any action or bubbling of the liquid, it is done. Fit to the 
lower end of the cork a piece of stick to reach into the liquid ; after the 
liquid is perfectly quiet, cork it. In soldering, wet the place where the sol- 
der is to go, with this liquid ; the drop or two that the stick will take up is 
enough. Do not get this liquid on the clothing, or on the skin, as it may 
irritate it and make it feel very rough. 

HoRSFORD Biscuit. — One quart flour, pint sweet milk, half tea-cup lard, 
heaping salt-spoon salt. Measure each of Horsford's Preparation, mixed in 
flour, and sifted twice through a sieve. Divide the flour in halves, add the 
salt; with one hand pour in the milk on the half of the flour, with the other 
mix to a thin paste, then add the lard and the rest of the flour, mixing it 
lightly. The dough will be soft, but can be rolled on a well-floured board, 
and cut with a common biscuit-cutter, then i)rick, and bake twenty minutes 
in a quick oven. Make crust as above (using two-thirds cup lard or butter 
instead of half-cup) for chicken-pie with oysters (see recipe in poultry); it is 
enough for a four-quart pan, where the sides only are lined. Some prefer 
not to cook the oysters, only boil and skim liqu(^r, adding oysters raw. ^ Re- 
serve pint or pint and a half chicken-liquor (do not mix the oyster-liquor 
with that in the pot, but pour it in the pie by itself ) in the kettle, place it on 
the stove, rub together table-spoon butter, two of flour, season very highly 
with pepper, stir it in the boiling chicken-liquor, salt to taste, cook until 
there is no raw taste to flour, serve in gravy-boat as dressing for pie. 

Drying Corn. — Select good ears of sweet corn, husk, take ofl" silk care- 
fully, but do not wash; shave with a sharp knife, not too close to the 
cob, into a large tin pan or wooden bowl, scraj»e cob to get all the milk 
of corn; when about three quarts are cut off, line a large dripping-pan 
with flour-sack paper, being careful to have sides and edges covered, pour 
in corn, s])read, and put at once in moderate oven; stir frequently, and 
leave in oven fifteen or twenty minutes. Set a table out in the sun, cover 
with a cloth, pour the corn upon it, and spread out evenly and thinly. 
Before sunset bring the corn in and si)read on a table in the house ; m 
the morning, heat again in oven, and spread in sun as before. If direc- 
tions are closely followed, the corn will be thoroughly dried on the even- 
ing of the second day, and when shaken will rattle; store in paper bag as 
soon as cooled. Prepare in small quantities, because it must not st^ind 
long after being shaven, but should at once go into oven to heat. When 
-all is dried, put in oven for final heating; place to cool, pour into the bag, 
tie closely, and hang in a cool, dry, dark place. 

Dish Cloths, Wipers, T.\ble Linens, etc.— -Roller towels for the hands 
should be marked with the number of each, and also with the whole num- 
ber; as 1-6, 2-6, etc., where the whole number is six. This shows at once 

26 



410 



THE KITCHEN. 



the whole number to be accounted for, and also makes it easy to use them, 
in rotation, so that they may be worn equally. Of dish cloths, of which 
there should be six — two for the best dishes, two for greasy-, and two for pots 
and kettles, the first two may be marked, ''B-1-2" and " B-2-2;" the second 
;wo, " G-1-2 " and " G-2-2 ; " the third, " P-1-2 " and P-2-2." Wiping towels, 
of which there should be six, two to be used each week, washing every day, 
may be marked in a similar way, which is equally good for nai)kinsli table 
cloths, ciotlis for silver, etc. Never buy new cloth for disli cloths or wipers; 
buy Stevens' crash (or any other linen crash) for towels; when worn soft, 
take for dish-cloths and wipers ; keep whole for dish wipers, and cut one 
of a yard in length into three, hem and place in kitchen for dish-cloths; you 
thus have one for pots and kettles, one for dishes, and one to wipe a knife, 
fork or spoon that you may be using while cooking, for the wipers should 
nev^er be used for this purpose. 

How TO Kindle a Coal Fire. — Hard coal will nut ignite until it is 
thoroughly heated through and through, and as small coal will not require 
as mucli wood to heat it up as large, it is important, where the supply of 
kindling wood is limited, that the pieces of coal which touch the wood 
should be small. As wood in cities is more expensive than coal, economy 
suggests the use of as little as practicable. The coal, then, for kindling, 
should not only be as small as a pigeon's egg, called " chestnut coal " by the 
dealers, but to economize the wood, the pieces should not be over four inches 
long, so that they can be laid compactly, and the heat more concentrated 
on a given point of coal, and thus the sooner heat it through. If the wood 
is thus placed, and is covered with one layer of chestnut coal, it will redden 
with great rapidity and certainty. Now cover the reddened coal with 
another layer or two, and in a minute or two put on the larger size. Put a 
handful of shavings or paper in a grate compactly, then some splinters of 
dry wood, not larger than the little linger, and outside of that a layer of 
pieces an inch or more thick and three or four long; apply a match tu the 
paper, and while it is catching put on small coal as above, and there will 
not be a failure during the winter, nor a growl in the household, for the 
want of a good and timely tire. To lessen a coal tire, press it from the top, 
so as to make the mass more compact, giving less room for air. To revive 
it, lay on small pieces tenderly ; put on the blower, and when red, add larger 
pieces, and riddle out froTu below. Heaping on more coal, or letting out 
the ashes below, will certaily put out a low coal fire. 

^ Sauer Kraut. — Slice cabbage tine on a slaw-cutter ; line the bottom and 
sides of an oaken barrel or keg with cabbage leaves, put in a layer of the 
sliced cabbage about six inches in depth, sprinkle lightly with salt, and 
pound with a wooden beetle until the cal3bage is a compact mass; add 
another layer of cabbage, etc., repeating the operation, pounding well each 
]ayer, until the barrel is full to within six inches of the tui>; cover with 
leaves, then a clotli, next a board cut to fit loosely on the inside of bar- 
rel, kept well down with a heavy weight. Tf the brine has not raised 
within two days, add enough water, with just salt enough to taste, to 
cover the cab])age ; examine every two days, and add water as before, until 
brine raises and scum forms, when lift off cloth carefully so that the scum 
may adhere, wasli well in several cold Avatcrs, wring dry and rei)la('e. I'c- 
peating this operation as the scum arises, at first every otlier day, and then 
once a week, until the aceteous fernuMitation ceases, which will take from 
three to six weeks. T^p to this time keep warm in the kitchen, then ]-e- 
move to a dry, cool cellar, unless made early in the fall, when it may be 
at once set in the pantr}^ or cellar. One ])int of salt to a full barrel of 
cabbage is a good proportion; some also sprinkle in whole black pepper. 
Or, to keep until summer: In April squeeze out of brine, and pack tightly 
with the hands, in a stone jar, with the bottom lightly sprinkled with s.'dt ; 
make brine enough to weli cover the kraut in the ])ro])ortion of ii table- 
»spoon salt to a ouart of water; boil, skim, cool, and pour over; cover with 



THE KITCHEN. 



411 



cloth, then a plate, woiglit, and another cloth tied closely down ; keep in 
a cool place, and it will he good in Jnne. Neither pound nor salt the 
cabbage too much, watch closely, and keep clear from scum for good sauer 
kraut. 

Hulled Corn.— This old-fasliioned luxury is really a delicious dish when 
properly prepared. Take a six-quart pail full of ashes (hard wood ashes, 
if possible, as they are stronger): put them into an iron kettle with three 
gallons of water ;^ let them boil about tive minutes, then set oti' from the 
fire, and turn in a })int of cold water to settle it. The water should then 
feel a little slippery. Turn off the lye and strain; put it into an iron 
kettle, and put in six quarts of shelled corn ; put it over a brisk tire, and 
let it boil half an hour, skimming and stirring frequently (the outside 
skin of the kernels will then slip off); strain oif the lye, and rinse thor- 
oughly in several clear waters. When the lye is thus weakened, turn the 
corn into a large dish-pan, and turn in water enough to cover it; tlien 
rub thoroughly with the hands, till the black chits come off; rinse and 
strain off till the water looks clear; then put back into a clean kettle, 
with water enough to cover it, and let it boil; then turn off water, put 
on again, and par])oil three or four limes (it will swell to about double 
the first quantity); the last time boil till quite soft; it may be necessai-y' 
to add water occasionally; stir often, so as not to burn at the bottom of 
the kettle ; when quite soft, put in two large table-spoons of salt, and stir 
well; to be eaten with milk, or butter and sugar. It is a wholesome dish, 
and although there is trouble in preparing it, yet it is good enough to 
pay for the labor and trouble. It is good either hot or cold, and was 
considered by our grandparents to be one of the greatest luxuries of the 
table. Wheat hulled in the same wvay is considered a great delicacy, and 
a very beneficial diet for invalids, but is not so staple or nutritious as 
Indian corn. Smaller quantities can be prepared by using less lye and 
corn. 

Water. — Pure water is as necessary to health as pure air. Rain-water, 
filtered to remove any foreign matters catiglit from the roof or in the smoky 
atmosphere, is the purest attainable. It is a debatable question whether the 
mineral matters lield in solution in hard water are injurious to health, but 
vegetable or animal matters are agreed by all chemists to be injurious, and, 
in many cases, rank poisons, breeding fatal fevers, and other violent diseases. 
Water that is at all doubtful, should be boiled ])efore drinking, as the vege- 
table and animal matters are thus destroyed, and the mineral deposited on 
the bottom of the kettle. Wells, even 'in the country, arr very doubtful 
sources from which to proctire a supply of pure water. In cities the sources 
of well-supply are almost invarial)ly poisoned by the numerous cesspools, 
vaults and drains that i Iter through the earth until they reach the under- 
ground streams of water, poisoning them as surely as they would a surface 
stream or pond. When it is remembered that all water in wells must come 
first from the surface, and that it dissolves all sorts of filth as it passes 
into the earth, carrying a good deal with it, particularly if the soil is sandy 
and porous, it will "be readily understood that wells are apt to furnish impure 
water. People who throw dirty water or other slops near a well, poison the 
water as surely as if they scattered arsenic. Wells should be covered to ex- 
clude all leaves and vegetable matter. The ground should slope away from 
the well so as to carry away surface water, and it should be located as far as 
possible from barns and out-buildings where filth accumulates. There are 
various good filters in the market, but one may be easily and cheaply made 
as follows: Take a large flower pot, and insert a sponge in the hole in the 
bottom, fill the pot with alternate layers of sand, charcoal, and small peb- 
bles. The ttower pot thus filled up may then be placed on a jar or other 
convenient vessel, into which the water can be received as it filters through. 
Never use hot water drawn from a lead pipe, but take the cold and heat it on 
the stove. 



412 



THE KITCHEN. 



How TO USE Coal Economically. — The Scientific American''^ says: There 
is a great want of intelligence regarding the burning of coal, and it is not to 
be expected that servants should know how to save it. The grate or range 
is stuffed so full that the oven-top is loaded with it, so the fire will not die 
out or need looking after ; then the draft is opened, and the money, or what 
is the same, the heat, goes flying up the chimney. With a little forethought 
all this could be prevented, and a ton of coal made to last three months 
instead of one. A good bright fire can be steadily maintained with coal, 
with less trouble than with any other kind of fuel, but not by raking, 
poking, and piling in green fuel continually. 

After breakfast the lire should be cleared of ashes, if there are any, and 
fresh fuel put on to fill the grate moderately. Let the oven damper be 
turned up .so as to heat it, and leave the small top door open, more or less, 
according to the intensity of heat required. In this way air enters over the 
top of the tire, and maintains a far better combustion, and consequently 
greater heat than when the draft-dampers are thrown down. A washing 
•can be done, or ''ironing" accomplished, with one-third less coal than is 
generally thought necessary to use. 

There is also great waste in throwing away half-burned coal under the 
supposition that it is cinders. One who has experimented with coal for 
twenty years, both in the house and under the boiler, writes: 

In cleaning the grate in the morning, you will find there is a quaiitity 
of unburned coal, which has been externally subjected to combustion. It 
is covered with ashes, and looks to the inexperienced eye like cinder. It is 
often relentlessly dumped into the ash-box. The fact, in many cases, is, 
that the lump is only roasted on the outside, not even coked, and is in a 
better condition for igniting than the fresh coal. We have stated that coal 
is a condensed form of carbon. The superficially burned lumps, found in 
our grates or among our ashes, sufficiently prove this. But take a lump of 
anthracite coal from the fire, red-hot and all alive, throw it into the water 
until the ashes are washed from it, and it is black externally and cool. Take 
it out, and break it open with a hammer, and you will find it red-hot and 
glowing inside. This shows that time, and a plentiful supply of air, are 
necessary to burn coal, and that large amounts of what we call ashes and 
cinders are really excellent fuel. 

To prove this fact, let any one carefully sift his ashes, throwing out the 
inevitable slate, which can be readily detected, and start his coal-fire on 
wood or charcoal, kindling his coal-fire with the savings. He will find that 
he can get a good bed of incandescent coal sooner than with green coal on 
the kindlings. 

Never, whether rich or poor, suffer cinders or unburned bits of coal to be 
wasted in the ash-barrel. Measure for measure, they are worth more than 
coal. Save them, soak them, try them. Water renovates the coke, and 
wet cinders upon a hot coal-fire will make it hotter, and keep it so longer 
than fresh coal. Saving cinders is not meanness, it is economy. 

Flavoring Extracts, Fruit-juices, Etc. — The following directions for 
the preparation at home of extracts, etc., are contributed by a trustworthy 
and experienced dealer, and may be relied upon. Of flavoring extracts put 
up for the general market, almond and peach are seldom pure, and are 
sometimes even poisonous. The other kinds are less liable to be adulterated. 

To prepare vanilla, take one ounce of fresh vanilla beans, cut fine, and 
rub thoroughly with two ounces granulated sugar, put in a pint bottle, and 
pour over it four ounces pure water, and ten ounces of ninety-five per cent, 
deodorized alcohol. Set in a warm place, and shake occasionally for four- 
teen days. 

To prepare lemon, cut in small pieces the rinds of two lemoBs, put in a 
four-ounce bottle, and fill with deodorized strong alcohol, set in a warm 
place for a week ; then put two drams fresh oil of lemon, four ounces of 
deodorized strong alcohol, and the juice of half a lemon, in a bottle of suf- 
ficient size to hold all ; then strain in the tincture of lemon peel. 



THE KI I CHEN. 



413 



To make orange extract, use the rind and oil of orange, as directed for 
lemon. 

To make rose extract, put one ounce of red rose leaves in one pint of de- 
odorized alcohol, let stand eight days ; press out the liquid from the leaves, 
and add it to a half dram of otto of roses. 

Oils must be fresh and pure, or the extract will have a turpentine taste; 
and always use deodorized alcohol. 

For fruit juices, select clean, ripe fruit, press out juice, and strain it 
through tlannel; to eacli pint of juice, add six ounces pure granulated 
sugar; put in a porcelain kettle, bring to boiling point, and bottle while hot, 
in two or four ounce bottles. 

Canned-fruit juice may be used in the same way. These juices are a per 
feet substitute for brandy, wine, etc., in all puddings, and sauces, etc 

For gold coloring, take one ounce turmeric to two ounces alcohol. 

To filter water and alcoholic solutions (not syrups), pass through filtering 
paper, folded in conical form, so as to set into a funnel (a half-pint glass fun- 
nel is best). The paper is kept at all drug stores. 

The New " Patent Proce.ss Flour." — In all markets the best and highest- 
priced tlour is now known as the Minnesota "New Process. ' A few years 
ago the process was invented and first used in the young city of Minneapolis, 
which now exports nearly a million and a quarter barrels of flour yearly, and 
finds a market for it in every part of the United States and Europe. The 
wheat from which this flour is made, is the hard spring wheat, raised in the 
extreme North, that raised south of Minnesota and Dakota being inferior, and 
most of it not available for the best grades, while that raised on the line of 
the North Pacific, and in the rich valley of the Ked River of the North, 
makes the very highest grades of flour. This hard wheat is first passed 
through rollers and mashed ; then to the stones, which are run at a low rate 
of speed, and so dressed that the grinding is nearly all done near the outer 
edge of the stone, the "runner" being set high, so as not to heat the flour, 
but to leave it in hard, sharp globules. From this stone it is conveyed to a 
series of bolts, where the bran is separated, the softer and finer particles 
being passed througli and put up as lower grades of flour, known as " All- 
Wheat Flour." The coarser particles and " middlings" are sei)arated by this 
process, and conveyed to the purifiers, where they are thoroughly cleaned of 
all bran and impurities ; after which, they go to the stones to be regroui^ 
and rebolted, and thus made into the " New Process Flour. " These middlings 
are mainly from the outer portion of the kernel, which lies immediately below 
the flinty and worthless husk (which goes off in bran), and is rich in the 
nutritious gluten — the nitrogenous principle of wiieat which makes it rank 
first as a " force-producing " food. Before the introduction of this process, 
the stones were driven at a high rate of speed, and the wheat thoroughly 
ground by the first run through the mill, the flour coming out quite hot, and 
much of its strength lost by the heating. The comparative rate of speed may 
be known by the fact that only five bushels are ground per hour hy the new 
process; while, with the old, from fifteen to eighteen would have been con- 
sumed. By the old process, the "middlings" made a second-rate dark flour; 
the new, it is transformed into the best known to the trade. 

That this flour is the most economical for use, there is no doubt among 
those who have tried it. The hard spring wheat makes a much stronger flour 
than any of the s()ft varieties of spring or winter wheat, because it contains 
a larger portion of gluten and less starch; and a given quantity will make 
from fifteen to twenty per cent, more loaves of bread of the same size and 
weight than the best winter wheat flour. This fact is what has given Minne- 
sota bakers' grades their popularity. Another advantage possessed by this 
flour, especially for family use, is that bread from it does not become stale 
and dry as soon as that made from winter wheat, but retains its moistuie 
and good table qualities much longer. 

The following in regard to the New Process Flour is from George H. 



414 



KITCHEN UTENSILS. 



Thristian, Esq., who has spent years in studying the best methods in use in 
this country and Europe, and is tlie largest manufacturer in the United 

States : 

" In regard to the economy of the New Process Flour, made from Min- 
nesota spring wlieat, it is claimed, and I believe has been established, that 
the best qualities will make forty or fifty pounds of bread to the barrel more 
than Hour from the best quality of winter wheat. This is explained by its 
superior affinity for water which, being held in that much greater quantity 
in the bread, insures its keeping moist for a long time. Perhaps it might 
interest the scrupulous housewife to know that the New Process Flour is 
cleaner, all of the shell or bran being taken away before this kind of flour is 
made by the mill-stones. The authorities give the chemical analysis as 20 
parts gluten., oO parts starch, 10 parts dextrine, glucose, etc., 5 parts salts, 
fatty material, etc.. and 15 parts water, for flour made from the best Min- 
nesota spring wheat by the new^ process. The above percentage of gluten is 
nearly double that of flour made from the soft varieties of wheat (that of 
Minnesota is of the hard). Gluten is the most important compound of 
flour, and is the substance which renders the dough firm, and gives it suffi- 
cient consistency to hold the gases, generated by fermentation, long enough 
to make it rise well, and ensure a light palatable bread. It is well known 
also that bread from spring wheat is sweeter. The percentage of gluten 
in New Process Flour is more than in flour made of the same wheat by the 
old process." 

KITCHEN UTENSILS. 

The following is a list of the utensils needed in every well-furnished 
kitchen. Of course an ingenious housewife will make fewer do excellent 
service, but all these save time and labor, and make the careful preparation 
of food easier. In buying tinware and kitchen utensils generally, it is econ- 
omy to purchase the best at first. The very best double plate tinware will 
last a lifetime, while the poor cheap kind will not last a year. The low- 
priced earthenware, particularly that which looks like the substance of a 
common brick when broken, is worthless. The solid, strong stoneware costs 
perhaps a quarter more, but it is worth ten times as much as the other. It 
is also much better for milk than tin. 



WOODEX WARE. 



One bread board. 
One rolling pin. 

One small s})oon for stirring pudding- 
sauce. 
Two large spoons. 
One potato-pounder. 
One leuiou squeezer. 
One wash-board. 
One mush stick (hard wood). 



One small paddle for coffee. 
One ncsat-board. 

One board upon which to cut bread, 

prepare vegetables, etc. 
Three buckets for sugars. 
One chopping tray. 
Two large and one small wash-tubs. 
One wringer. 



two 



One crock, 
cake. 

Two crocks, one gallon each 
Two crocks, two quarts. 
Two three-gallon jars. 
Two two-gallon jars. 
Two one-gallon jars. 
Two two-quart jars. 



EARTHEN AND STONE WARE. 

allon, for mixing 



One bean-pot. 
One bowl. 
One bowl, four quarts. 
Three bowls, one quart. 
Three bowls, one pint each. 
One nest of three baking dishes, dif- 
ferent sizes. 



KITCHEN UTENSILS. 



415 



TIN >.V 

One boiler for clothes, holding six 
gallons, with copper bottom or all 
copper. ; 

One milk strainer. j 

One bread-pan, holding five or six j 
qnarts. ! 

•One deep pan, for preserving and 
canning fruits. 

One six-quart pan. 

One four-quart pan. 

Two two-quart pans. 

Two one-quart pans. 

Two dish pans. 

Two two-quart covered tin pails. 
One four-quart covered tin pail. 
Two tin-lined .sauce pans with covers, 

holding four quarts each, for boiling 

potatoes, cabbages, etc. 
Four Clips with handles. 
Two pint molds, for rice, blanc-niange, 

etc. 

Four half-pint molds. 

One skimmer with handle. 

Two dippers of difFerent size. 

Two funnels, one for jugs and one for 

cruets. 
One quart measure. 
One pint measure. 
Half-pint messure. 
One gill measure. 

If possible, get these measures broad 
and low, instead of high and slen- 



AKE. 

der, as they are much more easily 

kept clean. 
Three scoops of different size. 
Four bread-pans for baking. Th« 

smallest make the best-sized loaves, 

and will do for cake also. 
Four jelly-cake pans. 
Four round and two long pie-pans. 
One 134 inch deep for custard and 

cocoa-nut pies. 
One coffee-pot. 
One tea-pot. 
One colander. 
One large bread-grater. 
One small nutmeg-grater. 
One wire-sieve. 

One hand sieve (quart measure). 

One frying-basket. 

One egg-beater. 

One spice-box. 

One pepper-box. 

One cayenne pepper-box. 

One pepper-box for salt. 

One biscuit-cutter. 

One i)otato-cutter. 

One dozen mufhn-rings. 

One soap-shaker. 

One tea-kettle with copper bottom or 

all copper. 
One wire spoon. 
One tea-cannister. 
One toasting-rack. 



IRON WARE. 



One pair of scales. 

One pot, holding two gallons, with 
steamer to fit. 

One pot, holding three gallons, with 
close-fitting cover, for soup. 

One preserving kettle, porcelain lined. 

One deep frying-pan. 

One small frying-})an. 

Two sheet-iron dripping-pans of dif- 
ferent sizes. 

One large turke}^ pan. 

Two sets of gem pans. 

Two spoons with long handles. 



Two spoons with handles of moder- 
ate length. 

Two spoons with wooden handles. 

One griddle. 

One broiler. 

One watffe-iron. 

One toasting-rack. 

One large meat-fork. 

One jagging-iron. 

One can-opener. 

One coffee-mill. 

One chopping-knife. 

Tliree fiat-irons, tw^o No. 8, and ono 
No. 6. 



KITCHEN LUXURIES. 

Molds for .Tellies, etc. — Are made of tin in various designs. 

A Gravy-strainer, made of gauze wire, in the shape of a tunnel, is best. 

Egg-beater. — The best is the "Dover Egg-beater." 

Pancake-lifter.— Made with a broad fiat blade, for turning pancakes. 

Apple-corer.— A tin tube, tapering slightly from one end to the other, for 
coring apples; may be made of any desired size. 

Can-opener.— Several good ones are made, which are very cheap, and save 
time and trouble and knives in opening tin cans. 



416 



KITCHEN LUXURIES. 



Knife for Peeling pot.itoes or fruit, which has a wire guard on the side 
of the blade to regulate the thickness of the paring. 

Larding-needles, for larding fowls, may be purchased at any house- 
furnishing store. A penknife may be used as a substitute. 

Wire Basket for Frying.— A basket of tinned wire which is lowered 
into hot fat with any article to be cooked by immersion in it. 

Skewers, made of tinned wire, with a ring at one end to draw them by, 
are convenient and easily made. 

Potato Cutter.— An instrument with an adjustable knife for slicing 
potatoes, for frying in hot lard. Costs half a dollar, and is a great conven- 
ie.nce. 

Cream Whipper.— A small syringe with the bottom perforated with holes, 
through which the cream is forced back and forth until it becomes a froth. 
Costs twentv-five cents. 

A Dust-pan, with handle leaning down instead of up, so that the end will 
rest on the floor, tipping the blade slightly so that the edge will keep close 
to the floor to receive the dust, saves stooping down in sweeping. 

Polisher and Stand. — A small neat stand, made of coppered iron, with a 
surface of emery (three extra emery pads go with each) fur cleaning starch, 
etc,, from flat-irons. 

Custard-kettle. — The best is an iron kettle with a strong handle, with a 
smaller kettle, also with handle, fitted inside of it, leaving space around the 
smaller one for water. The inside kettle is lined with block-tin. The 
custard-kettle is invaluable in cooking articles which are easily scorched. 

Cooking Utensils. — The safest utensils for cooking are iron or porcelain 
lined. Tin-lined vessels, when only partly filled, often become so much 
heated that the tin is oxydized, and mingles with the food, and is an irritant 
poison . 

Spice Cabinet. — A little bureau, about a foot high, with each drawer 
labeled outside, "nutmegs," "cloves," etc., and put up near where cakes, 
etc., are made. It costs little, probably about two dollars, and is a great con- 
venience. 

The Bain Marie is an open vessel filled with hot, not boiling water, and 
set on back of stove or range. In this set tin stew-pans or cups with handles 
and tight covers, containing vegetables, sauces, and other articles that need 
to be kept warm. 

Flower Forms.— Forms in the shape of a circle, cross, anchor, or other 
fanciful device, may be made of tin, about one inch deep, in which to 
arrange fiat bouquets in wet sand or water, for the table. Very small ones 
in initials may be made to designate the plate to which guests are assigned. 

Fish-kettle.— An oblong kettle for boiling fish, wiiich has a false bottom 
of perforated tin, with handles at either end. The fish is placed on this per- 
forated tin, lowered into the kettle, boiled, and, when done, lifted out again, 
and gently slipped from the tin to the platter on which it is to be served. 

Tea-kettle Boiler.— A long tapering tin dish, with a long handle, made 
to lower into the tea-kettle, and large enough at the top to fill the opening, 
and long enough to reach to the bottom. The cover of the tea-kettle may be 
used to put over it. It is used for cooking gruels, custards, etc., and .serves 
as a steamer for puddings, brown bread, etc., for a small family. 

Jelly-stand.— Four upright posts about a foot high, set aboiit a foot apart, 
aod joined at top and bottom with rounds, as the legs of the chair are joined. 
This makes a frame, with which the jelly-bag (the top of w^hich should be 
pipped over a strong wire) may be suspended by cords running from tlie 
wire in the top of the bag to each corner post. Pour in the jelly or soup, 
place a dish underneath, and allow to drain. * 

A Knife Board.— A board two feet long by one wide, with a half-inch 
strip fastened to the edge, and raised a little above it all round, to keep the 
sand from falling off. At one end fasten in some way a scouring brick (such 
as all grocers keep), and on the other tack a piece of buff leather, three by 



KITCHEN LUXURIES. 



417 



seven inches. A few strokes over the leather after scouring gives a high 

^^Ste\ming Kettle.— a shallow pan with a perforated bottom, lowered its 
full length into a deep kettle. To steam vegetables, puddings, or m fact any 
thing that is usually cooked by immersion in hot water, put water m the 
deep kettle, place article in the perforated pan, cover closely, and keep the 
water boiling. It is impossible for any article so cooked to become water- 
soaked. . . I , ^1 A 
A Clothes-line Protector is not a new mvention, but it can not be saia 
to be in general use. It consists simply of a little box fastened to a post and 
inclosing a wheel and a crank, with which a hundred feet of line can be 
wound up in one minute. When the line is wanted, it can be run out with 
equal facility, and by a turn of th^ wheel can be tightened, then a catch 

holds it in its place. . • • i- <r 

A Toaster is made of a sheet of tin large enough to contain six slices ot 
bread The edges are turned up about half an inch and bound with wire, 
and perforations are cut about two inches apart in the shape of a Y through 
the bottom, and the sharp points turned up so as to penetrate and hold tjie 
bread in place. A stiff wire handle is fastened firmly to the middle of the 
back, so that the toaster is kept at the right angle before the hre, and, if it 
toasts too rapidly at top or bottom, it may easily be inverted. 

The Kitchen Gem.— A kettle-shaped vessel made of tinned wire, to be 
filled with articles to be boiled, and lowered into another kettle which con- 
tains the water. It is provided with a bail by which to lift it out, and with 
projecting flanges which rest on the top of the outer kettle, touching neither 
the bottom or sides, so as to keep it suspended either in or over the water; 
when done, the cooked articles are lifted out in it. It is admirable for vege- 
tables, for making soups (especially when the meat is to be served on the 
table), and for boiling eggs, as well as for steaming dumplings, puddings, etc. 

C\ke-p\n —The bottom and sides are not permanently attached, but when 
fastened together, are in the shape of an ordinary cake-pan. When the cake 
is done, bv unfastening the hooks that join the two ends of the strips of tin 
that forms the sides of the pan, it opens and leaves the cake standing on the 
bottom of the pan, from which it is slipped on a plate \yithout inverting, 
as is necessary with the old-stvle pan. The bottom is also provided with 
a movable stem, which may be taken off when using the dish for puddings, 

etc 

Bosom i3oARD.— A board twenty inches long, and ten to twelve inches 
wide The shirt is slipped over it and buttoned at the neck ; at the other 
end of the board is a strip about an inch wide, fastened to the board by an 
arm at each end, running along the sides of the board. This strip is pushed 
down one ''flap" of the shirt drawn through between it and the end ot the 
board and then it is raised up so that its surface is again on a level with the 
board. It thus holds the shirt firmly in position while it is being ironed and 

^^Other Conveniences.— Among these are a soup-kettle (with a double 
bottom); a polishing iron for Shirts (or a substitute maybe made by select- 
ing vour best iron, and rounding and polishing both ends) ; a jaggiiig-iron, 
to mark and ornament paste for pies ; a pair of good scales ; a movable sink, 
set on verv large, strong casters, which may be run into the dining-room to 
receive the dishes from the table and pushed out to the kitchen ; for summer 
use a gas-stove, or when gas is not used, a Houchin pocket cooking-stove, on 
which modest meals for a small family may be cooked without building a hiy 
in the kitchen-stove. The latter is also useful for travelers, at camp-meet- 
ings and in the sick-room for making toast, and keeping articles warm ; a 
soap-shaker, a perforated oval tin box with a long handle, which, after a cake 
of foap has been placed in it, is shaken in the dish-water to niake a suds; 
and a cast-iron soap-dish, which fastens on the side of the wash-tub, while 
washing with hard soap. 



THE MANAGEMENT OF HELP. 



In all families whose style of living demands help in the household duties, 
the management of servants is the greut American jmzzle. "Girls" come 
and go like tlie seasons, sometimes with the weeks. The one who is "such 
a treasure " to-day, packs Iier trunk and leaves her mistress in the lurch to- 
morrow, or, if she happens to have a conscience and works on faithfully, slie 
becomes the mistress and runs the household in her own way, her employer 
living in mortal fear of offending and losing her. This state of things is due 
partly to the fact that all girls who go out to service, do so as a make-shift 
until they marry or obtain some more congenial work. Few of them have 
any ambition to do their work well, and few ever dream of making them- 
selves a necessity in the family, becoming a part of it, sharing its joys and 
sorrow^s, and so establishing that honorable and close relation which exists 
between servants anJ families in Europe. Here, it is so much work for so 
much pay, and no bond of sympathy or attachment is allowed to spring up 
on either side. Another cause is the fact that too many American women, 
who ought to know better, regard work as degrading, instead of positively 
elevating and ennobling when it is well and conscientiously done. Is it 
wonderful that "girls" catch something of this vicious sentiment, and that 
it poisons their minds with false views of life, until they look upon their 
work as brutal drudgery, and strive to do as little of it as they possibly can 
and collect their wages? 

Perhaps the reason why girls prefer situations in stores, or shops, or even 
factories, to housework, is that their work there is confined to certain hours, 
after which they are free, and it is quite possible that an arrangement which 
would give the domestic certain hours of the day for her own, would work a 
reform ; or still better, certain reasonable tasks might be allotted her to do 
after which she would be free. 

The fixed wages which prevail in most cities and towns offer no induce- 
ment for the " girl " to try to become skillful or expert at her work. Among 
men the best, neatest, and most skillful workman commands the largest pay, 
but the "girl" who is a superior cook, or maid of all work, gets only the 
same wages paid to a bungler who lives next door. Such a thing as a com- 
bination among ladies who employ help, to grade wages and protect each 
other from the imposition of untidy, dishonest, or indolent "girls," has never 
been made, and perhaps, indeed, it is no more called for than a combination 
of "girls" to protect themselves from lazy, tyrannical, or too exacting mis- 
tresses. Certain it is that the whole system by which domestics are hired 
-and serve is demoralized beyond any speedy reform. All that anv individual 
(418) 



THE MANAGEMENT OF HELP. 



419 



can do is to remedy its evils so far as is x^ossible in her own family. In 
employing a new domestic, there should be the utmost frankness. She ought 
to be fully informed as to what she is expected to do, what her wages will 
be, and how paid, and what privileges will be granted. If she is not pleased, 
let her depart without regret. If you engage her, let her understand first 
and always that you are mistress, and claim the right to have the work done 
in your way, which, if you are as skillful a housewife as you ought to be, 
you will be able to show her is the best way. The mistress ought always to 
be able to do every thing better and quicker than any domestic ever dared 
think of doing it. If she gives orders whicl; betray her ignorance, she may 
as well resign her scepter at once in shame and luuniliation. No mistress 
who does not know how to do work herself can ever be just to her help ; and 
even when she is a thorough housekeeper, a turn in the kitchen for a day or 
two will often be like a new revelation to her. 

Above all, the utmost kindness should be shown, and the mistress of the 
house should always be mistress of her temper. She should put herself in 
the girl's" place, and apply the golden rule in all dealings with h^r. Give 
unqualified praise when deserved, but never scold. If any thing is done im- 
properly, take some proper time and have it done correctly, again and again 
if necessary. Give domestics all the privileges possible, and when obliged 
to deprive them of any customary indulgence, make it up soon in some 
other way. Never to find fault at the time an error is committed, if in the 
least irritated or annoyed, is an invaluable rule in the management of do- 
mestics or children, and indeed in all the relations of life. A quiet talk 
after all feeling has subsided, will do wonders toward reform, while a sharp 
and bitter rebuke would only provoke to further disobedience. It is espe- 
cially important and right to respect religious and conscientious scruples, no 
matter how light and misguided they may seem. To cherish what beliefs 
she pleases is an inalienable right. The care for the comfort and attractive- 
ness of the domestic's room is also a duty which every generous mistress will 
cheerfully look after. The servant who is tucked away in a gloomy attic, 
unfinished, uncarpeted, and uncurtained except by cobwebs, with the hardest 
bed and the meanest bed-clothing in the house, can hardly be expected to be 
neat and tidy in her personal habits. But, after all, it will be impossible to 
secure and keep really good "girls" unless they can be won into sympathy 
and attachment to the family, so that they will regard themselves as a part 
of it, with a future identified with its fortunes. To do this, the mistress 
must respect her maid as a sensitive w^oman like herself, and not class her 
as a mere drudge of an inferior order of creation. She must recognize the 
fact that character, and not station or wealth, make tlie lady, and that it is 
possible for those who serve to respect themselves. She must let her domes- 
tics see that she does not consider their work degrading, btit honorable, and 
that she does not for a moment expect them to regard it in any other light. 
Above all, she must never show them, by word, look, or action, that she 
"looks down" on them because of their work. By the cultivation of such 
amenities as these, the house may really be made a home for the domestic as 



420 



HINTS TO THE EMPLOYED. 



well as the family, and the mistress who has accomplished this may well 
congratulate herself on having escaped the worst and most perplexing ills 
of the life of the American housewife. In her efforts to bring about such a 
result, she may confidently count on meeting many cases of incompetence, 
stupidity, and even ingratitude, but the experiment itself is in the right di- 
rection ; and if it fails of complete success, can not be wholly without good 
results. 

HINTS TO THE EMPLOYED. 

Be neat in person and dress. 
Keep your hands clean and hair tidy. 
Do not waste time in gadding about and gossip. 
Be quiet, polite and respectful in your manners. 
Tell the truth always, but especially to children. 
Do not spend your money f(M)lishly in gewgaws of dress. 
Always follow your mistress' plan of work, or explain why you do not. 
Keep your room neat and orderly, and make it as attractive as possible. 
Do not waste any thing. To waste carelessly is almost as wrong as to 
steal. 

Never tell tales out of the family, or repeat in one what you have seen 
in another. 

Never break a promise to children, and do not frighten them with stories, 
or help them to conceal wrong-doing. 

Remember that there is nothing gained by slighting work. Doing every 
thing as well as possible always saves labor in housekeeping. 

Remember that the best and most faithful girls command the highest 
wages, get the easiest and best places, and never are out of employment. 

In engaging a new place, have a clear understanding as to wages, work, 
and the evenings and time you are to have. It may save trouble afterwards. 

Learn from books or from those who have had more experience, the best 
way of doing work, and plan to do it, with as much system and few steps as 
possible. 

Don't change employers. There are trials in every place, and it is better 
to put up with them, and make them as light as possible, than to change to 
new ones. 

If your mistress scolds and loses her temper, be sure and control yours. If 
you feel that you are wronged, talk quietly and kindly after the storm has 
blown over. 

Instead of trying, as many do, to see how little you can do and get your 
wages, try to see how pleasant and useful you can be as a member of the 
family. Work for its interests and happiness, lighten its burdens, be ready 
to give help when it is needed, even if it is out of your own line of work, 
atid try to win the esteem and love of all by cheerfulness, kindness, truth- 
fulness, and the practice every day of the golden rule. 

Above all, do nut think your work degrading. No work is more honor- 
able. The happiness and health of the family depends on you, and no lady 
or gentleman will "slight" you or "look down" on you because you work. 
You need not be on the lookout for slights unless you are vain, or lazy, or 
slovenly, or dishonest. Whoever looks down on you because you do honest 
work conscientiously and well, is a fool, and not worth minding. 



HINTS ABOUT MARKETING. 



Very few housekeepers understand how to select meats wisely or how to 
buy economically. Most trust the butcher, or buy at hap-hazard, with no 
clear understanding of what they want, and no consideration at all for 
economy; and yet a little knowledge of facts, with a moderate amount of 
experience and observation, will enable any one to buy both intelligenfly 
and economicallv. It is best, when possible, to buy for cash. Ready money 
always commands the best in the market, at the lowest prices. It is also 
better to buv of the most respectable regular dealers in the neighborhood, 
than of transient and irresponsible parties. Apparent " bargains " frequently 
turn out the worst possible investments. If a dealer imposes on you, drop 
him at once. Meat should always be wiped with a dry, clean towel as soon 
as it comes from the butcher's, and in loins the pipe which runs along the 
bone should be removed, as it soon taints. Never buy bruised meat. 

When found necessary to keep meat longer than was expected, sprinkle 
pepper, either black or red, over it. It can be washed off easily when ready 
for cooking. Powdered charcoal is excellent to prevent meat from tainting. 
Meat which has been kept on ice must be cooked immediately, but it is 
much better to place meats, poultry, game, etc., by the side of, not on, ice, 
as it is the cold air, not the ice, which arrests decay. All meats except 
veal, are better when kept a few days in a cool place. 

BuYixG Beef, select that which is of a clear cherry^red color after a fresh 
cut has been for a few moments exposed to the air. The fat should be of a 
light straw color, and the meat marbled throughout ^yith fat If the beet is 
immature, the color of the lean part will be pale and dull the bones small 
and the fat very white. High-colored, coarse-grained beef, with the tat a 
deep yellow, should be rejected. In corn-fed beef the fat is yellowish, while 
that fattened on grasses is whiter. In cow-beef the fat is also whiter than 
in ox-beef. Inferior meat from old or ill-fed animals has a coarse, skinny 
fat and a dark red lean. Ox-beef is the sweetest and most juicy, and the 
most economical. When meat pressed by the ^^^erjise^^ ^V^^^^^^^^^ 
prime, but if the dent disappears slowly, or remains, it is^ inferior in 
qualitV. Any greenish tints about either fat or lean, or slipperiness of sur- 
face, indicates that the meat has been kept so long that Putrefaction has be- 
gun and, consequently, is unfit for use, except by those persons who prefer 
what is known' a,s a ''high flavor." Tastes differ as to the f oi^^ cuts 
and butchers cut meat differently. The tenderloin, which is the choicest 
p?ece and is sometimes removed by itself, lies under the short ribs and close 
backbone, and is usually cut through with the porterhouse and sir- 
loin stakes. Of these the porterhouse is generally preferred, the Pft near- 
est the thin bone being the sweetest. If the tenderloin is wanted, may b^ 
secured by buying an edgebone steak, the remainder of which, after the 
f^moval of the tenderloin, is equal to the sirloin. The small porterhouse 

(421) 



422 



HI^'TS ABOUT MARKETING. 



steaks are lie most ecunoiiiical, but in large steaks, the coarse and toiiuh 
parts may be used or soup, or, after boiling, for hash, whicli, in spite of its 
bad repute, is really a very nice dish when well made. A round steak 
when the leg is not cut down too far, is sweet and juicy, the objection bein^ 

ntoTr! u'r;'" '''^'''^\' !^^^^y ^-l^opped hne,^ seasoned, and madi 

into break ast croquet es.^ There is no waste in it, and hence it is the most 
economical to buy. The interior portion of tiie round is the tenderest and 
best, lorterhouse is cheaper than sirloin, having less bone. Rump steak 
and round, if well pininded to make them tender, have tlie be^t iiavor Tho 
best K^t for a ki mode is the round; iiave the bone removed and trim 
ott all the grist e. tor corned beef, the round is also tlie best The roast- 
ing pieces are the sirloin and the ribs, the latter b.ing most economical at 
tlie family table the bones formmgan excellent basis forsoup, and the meat 
when Ixmed and rolled up (which should be done by the butcher) and 
roasted, being in good torm for the carver, as it enables him to distribute 
equal y the upper part with the fatter and more skinny ],ortions. A rociist 
serve<i in this way, if cooked rare, may be cooked a second or even a third 
time. Ihe best beef roast is (for three) about two and a half or three 
pounds of porterhouse. Two or three pounds is a great plenty for three 
There are roas s and other meats equally good in the fore-quarter of beef 
but the proportion of bone to meat is greater. 

Ve.\l is best from calves not less than four nor more than six weeks old 
If younger it is unfit for food, and if older the mother cow does not furnish 
enough food, and it is apt to fall away; besides, the change to grass diet 
changes the character of the tiesh, it becoming darker and less jtdcy" The 
meat should be clear and firm, and the fat wliite. If dark and thin, with 
tissues hanging loosely about the bone, it is not good. Veal will not keep so 
long as an older meat, especially in hot or damp weather, and when going 
the fat IS soft and moist, the meat flabby and spotted, and inclined to he 
porous like a sponge. The hind-quarter is the choicest joint. It is usually 
divided into two parts, called the "loin" and the "leg.'' When the les is 
large, it is divided into two joints, and the thin end is called the "kidney 

^'vp.l ;^nl^ '-^ t/" ' m 1^' ^'l'^-^ ^^'^ ^^^^ '^'^ "billet" and 

yeal cutlets. Tlie "'knuckle of veal" is the part left after the "fillets" 

and _ cutlets are removed. Many prefer the " breast of yeal " for roasting 
stewing, pies. etc. It may be boned so as to roll, or a large hole may be ctii 
m It to make room for the stuffing. The neck of veal is used for stewin' 
fricassee, pies, etc. \ eal chops are best for frying; cutlets are more apt to be 
tough. \ eal should be avoided in summer. Though veal and lamb contain 
less nutrition, in proportion to their weight, than beef and mutton, they are 
often preferred to these latter meats on account of the delicacy of dieir 
texture and flavor. 

Sweet-breads, if properly cooked, make one of the most delicate .lishes 
that can be put upon the table; but some care must be taken in se- 
lecting them, as there are two kinds, and it is only one kind that is very 
good. That one IS found m the throat of the calf, and when fresh and in 
perfection it is plump, white and fat. The other, whicli does very well for 
croquettes or any dish where it may be chopped, lies below the diaphragm 
u ^ ^^ ^^'^ pancreas. However the sweet-breads may be cooked they 

should be always first soaked for three hours in cold water, which should be 
two ortliree times changed ; then they should be put into boiling water for 
half an hour or ongej, if tliat does not make them hrm ; then they may be 
dried m a towel, and pressed flat by putting them between two pans or 
boards, with a pressing-iron or other weight on top 

Mutton shoiild be fat, and the fat clear, hard and white. Beware of buy- 
ing mutton with flabby lean and yellow fat. An abundan'r of fat is"'a 
source o waste, but as the lean part of fat mutton is much more iliicy and 
tender than any other, it should be chosen. The longer mutton is hun^ 
before being cooked, provided it does not become tainted, the better it is 



GAiME AND POULTRY. 



425 



If a saddle or haunch of iiuittoii is washed with vinegar every day, and 
dried thoroughly after each washing, it will keep a good while. In warm 
weather ])epper and ground ginger rubbed over it will keep off flies. The 
leg has the least fat in proportion to weight, next is the shoulder. The least 
proportion of bone is in the leg. After the butcher has cut off all he can be 
persuaded to remove, you will still have to trun it freely before broiling. 
The lean of mutton is quite different from that of beef. While beef is a 
])right carnation, mutton is a deep, dark red. The hind-quarter of mutton is 
best for roasting. The ribs may be used for chops, and are the sweeter; but 
the leg chops are the most economical, as there is nuich less bone, and no 
hard meat, as on the ribs. For mutton roast, choose the shoulder, the sad- 
dle, or the loin or haunch. The leg should be Ixjiled. Small rib chops are 
best for broiling; those cut out from the leg are generally tough. :Mutton 
cutlets to bake are taken from the neck. Almost any part will do for broth. 
As nuich of the fat should be removed as practicable ; then cut into small 
pieces and shnmered slowly until the meat falls to pieces. Drain off and 
skim off any renuiining fat, and thicken with rice or vermicelli. Mutton 
is in season at any time, but is not so good in autunni. 

Tongue.— Beef's tongue, calf's tongue, lamb's and sheep's tongue, pig's 
tongue, can all be procured of the butchers, and they are all prepared in the 
same way. Calf's tongue is considered best, but it is usually sold with the 
head; beeve's tongues are what is referred to generally when "tongue" 
is spoken of. Lamb's tongues are very nice. In purchasing tongues, choose 
those which are thick, hrm, and have plenty of fat on the under side. 

To Select Hams.— The best hams, whether corned or cured and smoked, 
are those from eight to fifteen pounds in weight, having a thin skin, solid fat, 
and a small, short, tapering leg or shank. In selecting them, run a knife 
along the bone on the fleshy side ; if it comes out clean the ham is good, but 
if the knife is smeared it is spoiled. Hams may be steamed, being careful 
to keep the water under the steamer boiling, and allow twenty nunutes to 
the pound. When done, brown slightly in the oven. 

Pork.— Great care must be taken in selecting pork. If ill-fed or diseased, 
no meat is more injurious to the health. The lean must be fine-grained, and 
both fat and lean very white. The rind should be smooth and cool to the 
touch. If clammy, be sure the pork is stale, and reject it. If the fat is full 
of small kernels, it is an indication of disease. In good bacon the rind is 
thin, the fat firm, and the lean tender. Rusty bacon has yellow streaks in it. 
Fresh pork should seldom be eaten, and never except in the fall and winter. 

Lamb is good at a year old, and more digestible than most immatiire 
meats. "Spring Lamb" is prized because unseasonable. It is much in- 
ferior to the best mutton. The meat should be light red and fat. If not too 
warm weather, it ought to be kept a day or two before cooking, but it does 
not keep well. It is stringy and indigestible if cooked too soona fter killing. 
The fore-quarter of lamb, if not fresh, the large vein in the neck, which 
.should be blue, will be greenish in color. If the hind-quarter is stale, the 
kidney-fat will have a slight smell. 

GAME AND POULTRY. 

To preserve game and poultry in summer, draw as soon as possible after 
they are killed, wash in several waters, have in readiness a kettle of boiling 
water, plunge them in, drawing them up and down by the legs, so that the 
water may pass freely through them, do this for live minutes, drain, wipe 
dry, and hang in a cold place ; when perfectly cold, rub the insides and 
necks with pepper, prepared in this way, they will keep two days in warm 
weather; when used wash thoroughly. Or wash well m soda-water, rinse in 
clear water, place inside several pieces of charcoal, cover with a cloth, and 
hang in a dark, cool place. The most delicate birds can be preserved in this 



424 



GA3fE AND POULTRY. 



way. If game or poultry is at all strong, let it stand for several hours in 
water with either soda or charcoal ; the latter will sweeten them when they 
are apparently spoiled. English or French cooks, however, never wash poul- 
try or game in dressing, unless there is something to wash off. With skill- 
ful dressing, none is necessary on the score of cleanliness, and much washing 
tends to impair the tine flavor, especially of game. In all game and poultry 
the female is the choicer. 

Sportsmen who wish to keep prairie-chickens, pheasants, or wild fowl in 
very hot weather, or to ship long distances, should draw the bird as soon as 
killed, force down the throat two or three whole peppers, tying a string 
around the throat above them, sprinkle inside a little powdered charcoal, 
and till the cavity of the body with very dry grass. Avoid green or wet 
grass, which " heats" and hastens decay. If birds are to be shipped without 
drawing, force a piece of charcoal into the vent, and tie a string closely 
around the neck, so as to exclude all air, and make a loop in string to hang 
up by. Prepared in this way, they will bear shipment for a long distance. 

Ducks. — Young ducks feel tender under the wings, and the web of the 
foot is transparent; those with thick, hard breasts are best. Tame ducks 
have yellow legs ; wild ducks, reddish ones. 

Geese.— In young geese, the bills and feet are yellow and supple, and the 
skin may be easily broken; the breast is plump, and the fat white; an old 
goose has red and hairy legs, and is unfit for the table. 

Wild Ducks, if fishy and the flavor is disliked, should be scalded for a 
few^ minutes in salt and w.ilor before roasting. If the flavor is very strong, 
the duck may be skinned, as the oil in the skin is the objectionable part. 
After skinning, spread with butter, and thickly dredge with flour, before 
putting in a verv quick oven. 

Game. — In pheasants and quails, yellow legs and dark bills are signs of a 
young bird. They are in season in autumn. Pigeons should be fresh, fat 
and tender, and the feet pliant and smooth. In prairie-chickens, when fresh, 
the eyes are full and round, not sunken ; and, if young, the breast-bone is 
soft and yields to pressure. The latter test also applies to all fowls and game 
birds. Plover, woodcock, snipe, etc., may be chosen by the same rules. 

Turkeys are in season in fall and winter, but deteriorate in the spring. 
Old turkeys have long hairs, and the flesh is purplish when it shows under 
the skin on legs and back; when good, they are wiiite, plump, with full 
breast and smooth, black legs; and, if male, soft, loose spurs. The eyes 
are bright and full, and the feet are supple, w^hen fresh. The absence of 
these signs denotes ago and staleness. Hen turkeys are inferior in flavor, 
but are smaller, fatter and plumper. Full-grown turkeys are best for bon- 
ing or boiling, as the flesh does not tear in dressing. 

Chickens, when fresh, are knowm by full, bright eyes, pliable feet, and 
soft, moist skin. Young fowls have a tender skin, smooth legs and comb, 
and the best have yellow legs. In old fowls, the legs are rough and hard. 
The top of the breast-bone of a young fowl is soft, and may be easily bent 
with the fingers ; and the feet and neck are large in proportion to the body. 
The best fowls are fat, plump, with skin nearly white, and the grain of 
the flesh fine. Old fowls have long, thin necks and feet, and the flesh on 
the legs and back has a purplish shade. Fowis are always in season. 

Venison. — The choice of venison should be regulated by the fat, which, 
when the venison is young, should be thick, clear and close, while the meat 
is a reddish brown. As it always begins to taint first near the haunches, 
run a knife into that part; if tainted, a rank smell and a greenish appear- 
ance will be perceptible. It may be kept a long time, however, with careful 



FISH. 



425 



management and watching, by the following process: Wash it well in milk 
and water, and dry it perfectly with a cloth until there is not the least damp 
remaining; then dust ground pepper over every i)art. This is a good pre- 
servative 'against the tly. The tlesh of a female deer, about four years old, 
is the sweetest and best of venison. 

FISH. 

AVhen fresh, the eyes of fish are full and bright, and the gills a fine clear 
red, the body stiff and the smell not unpleasant. Mackerel must be lately 
caught, or it is very indifferent fish, and the tlavor and excellence of salmon 
depends entirely on its freshness. Lobsters, when freshly caught, have some 
muscular action in their claws which may be excited by pressing the ej^es. 
The heaviest lobsters are the best. The male is thought to have the highest 
flavor, the tlesh is firmer, and the shell has a brighter red, and is considered 
best during the Fall and Spring; it may be readily distinguished from the 
female, as the tail is narrower, and the two upi)ermost fins, within the tail, 
are stiff and hard; those of the female are soft, and the tail broader. The 
latter are prepared for sauces on account of their coral, and are preferred 
during the summer, especially in June and July. The head is used in 
garnishing, by twisting it off after the lobster has been boiled and become 
cold. Lobsters ranging from four pounds are most delicate. If crabs are 
fresh, the eyes are bright, the joints of the legs are stiff', and the inside 
has an agreeable smell. The heaviest are the best, the light ones being 
watery. Scallops are not much used; when fresh, the shell closes tight; 
hard-shell clams are also closed tight when fresh. Soft-shell clams are good 
only in cold weather, and should be fresh. Oysters, if alive and healthy, 
close tight upon the knife. They are good from Septeml)er to ^hiy. 

In fresh-water fish, the same signs of freshness are good tests. Of course, 
it is impossible to name all the excellent varieties, as they differ with the 
locality. In the South is the shad, the sheep's-head, the golden mullet and 
the Spanish mackerel, in the North-west the luscious brook trout, and the 
wonderful and choice tribes that people the inland lakes. Among the best 
of the fresh-water fish, sold generally in the markets of the interior, are the 
Lake Superior trout and white fish, and, coming from cold waters, they keep 
best of all fresh-water fish ; the latter is the best, most delicate, and has fewer 
bones, greatly resembling shad. The wall-eyed pike, l)ass and pickerel of 
the inland lakes are also excellent fish, and are shipped, packed in ice,, 
reaching market as fresh as when caught, and are sold at moderate prices. 
California salmon is also shipped in the same way, and is sold fresh in all 
cities, with fresh cod and other choice varieties from the Atlantic coast, but 
the long distance which they must be transported makes the price high. 
The cat-fish is the staple Mississippi River fish, and is cooked in various 
ways. Lake Superior trout are the best fresh fish for baking. All fish 
which have been packed in ice should be cooked immediately after re- 
moval, as they soon grow soft and lose their flavor. Stale fish must never 
be eaten. Fresh fish should be scaled and cleaned properly on a dry table, 
and not in a pan of water. As little water should be used as is compatible 
27 



426 



VEGETABLES. 



with perfect cleanliness. When dressed, place near ice until needed, then 
remove and cook immediately. If frozen wlien brouglit from market, thaw 
in ice-cold water. Fresh cod, whiting, haddock, and shad are better for 
being salted the night before cooking them, and the muddy smell and taste 
of fresh-water fish is removed by soaking, after cleaning, in strong salt and 
water. 

Eels must be dressed as soon as possible, or they lose their sweetness ; cut 
off the head, skin them, cut them open, and scrape them free from every 
string. They are good except in the hottest sunnner months, the fat ones 
being best. A fine codfish is thick at the back of the neck, and is best in 
cold weather. In sturgeon, the fish should be white, the veins blue, the 
grain even and the skin tender. 

The best salt mackerel for general use are "English mess,'' but "bloaters" 
are considered nicer. In selecting always choose those which are thick on 
the belly and fat ; poor mackerel are always dry. The salt California sal- 
mon are excellerrt, those of a dark rich yellow being best. To freshen, place 
with scale side up. Salmon boiled and served with egg sauce or butter 
dressing is nice. No. 1 white fish is also a favorite salt fish, and will be 
found in all markets. 

A good deal of sturgeon is put up and sold for smoked halibut. The 
skin of halibut should be wdiite ; if dark it is more likely to be sturgeon. 
Smoked salmon should be firm and drv. Smoked white fish and trout are 
very nice, the former being a favorite in wdiatever way dressed. Select 
good firm whole tish. White fish is very nice broiled. Each of the above 
is better than herring. 

VEGETABLES. 

All vegetables snap crisply when fresh ; if they bend and present a wilted 
appearance, they are stale. If wilted, they can be partly restored by being 
sprinkled with water, and laid in a cool, dark place. 

Potatoes are good with all meats. With poultry they are best mashed. 
Sweet potatoes are most appropriate to roasts, as are onions, winter squash, 
and asparagus. 

Carrots, parsnips, turnips, greens, and cabbage are eaten with boiled meat, 
and corn, beets, i>ease, and beans are appropriate to either boiled or roasted 
meat. Mashed turnip is good with roasted pork and with boiled meats. 

Tomatoes are good with every kind of meat, but especially so with roasts ; 
apple sauce with roast pork, and cranberry sauce with beef, fowls, veal and 
ham. 

Currant jelly is most appropriate with roast mutton and venison. 
Pickles are good with all roast meats, and capers or nasturtiums with 
boiled lamb or mutton. 

Turnips are not nutritious, being ninety per cent, water, but an excellent 
food for those who are disposed to eat too much, as they correct constipation. 

Tomatoes are generally regarded as wholesome. The medium-sized 
smooth ones are best. 

Cauliflowers are best when large, solid and creamy. When stale the 
leaves are wilted and show dark spots. 



GROCERIES. 



427 



Celery stalks should be white, solid and clean. Celerj^ begins in August, 
but it is better and sweeter after frost. ' 

Egg-plant should be hrni but not ripe. The large purple oval-shaped 
kind, is best. 

Mushrooms are dangerous things for the inexperienced to buy, and should 
be let alono. 

Pease should be bought in pods and should feel cool and dry. If pods are 
rusty or .spotted, tiiey are too old to be good. 

Potatoes. — Select those of medium size, smooth, with small eyes. To test, 
cut off' a piece of the large end ; if spotted, they are unsound. In the spring^ 
when potatoes are beginning to sprout, place a'basket of them in a tub, pour 
boiling water over them; in a moment or two take out and place in sun to 
dry (on the grass is a good place), and then return to cellar. If thev have 
si3routed too much it is best to first rub them off. 

Berries.— Morning is the best time to eat fruit, and fresh fruit is then in 
the best condition to be eaten. When berries of any kind can be got fresh 
with the morning dew, fill the finest glass dish, adding a few fresh leaves, for 
a center-piece, on the breakfast table. Serve in saucers accompanied with 
fine white sugar (pulverized is the best and most economical for all purposes) 
and fresh cream if you have it, but never substitute skim milk. The berries 
will be very nice with only sugar, There is a vast difference between fruit 
with cream and fruit with milk. Cream is easily digested and slow to sour, 
while just the contrary is true of milk after the cream has been removed. 
Yet we have known people to live after eating strawberries atid buttermilk, 
and we have also known people to die after eating hot apple dumplings and 
cold milk. If you happen to be the fortunate possessor of a berry patch, 
let the children go out before breakfast and pick and eat. Properly"^ trained 
children will not abuse this privilege. 

GROCERIES. 

Sago. — The small white sago, called "pearl," is best. 
Raisins should be bought in small quantities ; small boxes are best. 
Rice. — The Southern rice cooks much quicker, and is nicer than the 
Indian rice. 

Macaroni. — Good macaroni is of a yellowish color, does not break in cook- 
ing and yields four times its bulk. 

Cheese, which feels soft between the fingers, is richest and best, and should 
be kept in a box in a cool dry place. 

Corn Meal does not keep well and should be bought smell quantities. 
South the white meal is used, and North the yellow is the favorite. Corn 
is a heat producer and is a useful winter diet. 

Vinegar, which is made of wine or cider, is the best. Buy a keg, or half 
barrel of it, and set it in the cellar, and then keep a supply for the casters 
in a junk bottle in tlie kitchen. If too strong, vinegar will "eat" pickles. 

Hard Soap should be bought in large quantity, and laid to harden in bars 
piled on each other. Ifard soap is more economical than soft, as it is not so 
easily wasted. 

Spices and Pepper should be ground fine, and put in large-mouthed glass 
bottles, or kept in tin cans, in a dry place. Avoid bright red peppers, spices, 
and sauces. 

Starch may also be bought in large quantities at a considerable discount 
from the retail price, which, in a large family, makes a difference in the 
yearly expenses. The best starch is the most economical. 
^ Buckwheat Meal, Rice and Hominy should be purchased in small quan- 
tities, and kept in covered kegs or tubs. Several of these articles are in- 
fested with black insects, and an examination should be occasionally made 
for them. 

Lard. — The best lard is made from leaf fat which adheres to the ribs and 
belly of the hog. This is known as leaf lard. Most lard is, however, made 



428 



GROCERIES. 



of both leaf fat and moat fat, the latter cut into small pieces and rendered. 
Good lard should be white, solid, and without any disagreeable smell. 

Eggs. — To determine the exact age of eggs, dissolve about four ounces of 
common salt in a quart of pure water and then immerse the egg. If it be 
only a day or so old, it will sink to the bottom of the vessel, but if it be 
three days old it will float in the liquid; if more than five it comes to the 
surface, and rises above in proportion to its increased age. 

Salt must be kept in the dnjest place that can be found. The best for 
table use is put up in boxes, but if a quantity be purchased, it should be 
stored in a glass jar, and closely covered. When it becomes damp in the 
salt-stands, it should be set by the fire to dry, and afterwards reduced to fine 
j>owder again. 

Coffee and Tea can be bought with advantage in considerable quantities. 
Cotfee improves by age if kept in a dry place, as it loses its rank smell and 
taste. Several cents a })Ound may be saved by buying a bag of coffee or half 
chest of tea. Tea loses its flavor if put up in paper, and should be kept in 
glass or tin, shut tight. Coffee should be kept by itself, as its odor affects 
other articles. 

Arrowroot, Tapioca Sago, Pearl-barley, American Isingless, Maca- 
roni, Vermicelli, and Oat-meal, are all articles which help to make an 
agreeable variety, and it is just as cheap to keep a small quantity of each as 
it is to buy a large quantity of two or three articles. Eight or ten pounds 
each of these articles of food can be kept in covered jars or covered wooden 
boxes, and then they are always at hand when wanted. All of them are 
very healthful food, and help to form many delightful dishes for desserts. 

Sugars. — Buy sugars for various purposes as follows: 

For baked custard, mince pie, squash pie, fruit cake, gingerbread, most 
Indian puddings, use brown sugar. 

For all light-colored cakes, icing, floating island, blanc-mange, meringues, 
whips, use powdered sugar. 

For pudding sauce, use pow^dered or brown sugar. 

For sweetmeats, jelly, and raspberry vinegar, use granulated sugar. 

Flour should be bought in small quantities, and the best is cheapest. The 
test of quality is given under bread. Flour is peculiarly sensitive to at- 
mospheric influence, hence it should never be stored in a room with sour 
liquids nor where onions or fish are kept, nor any article that taints the air 
of the room in which it is stored. Any smell perceptible to the sense will 
be absorbed by flour. Avoid damp cellars or lofts where a free circulation 
of air can not be obtained. Keep in a cool, dry, airy room, and not ex- 
posed to a freezing temperature nor to intense summer or to artificial heat 
for any length of time above 70 to 72 degrees Fahrenheit. It should not 
come in contact wuth grain or other substances which are liable to heat. 
Flour should be sifted and the particles thoroughly disintegrated, and then 
warmed before baking. 

Dressing Poultry for Market. — Secure plump, well fattened fowls. 
Do not feed for at least 24 hours before killing. Open the veins of the neck 
and bleed freely— this is the best mode of killing. Scald enough to make the 
feathers come off easily, picking both feathers and pin feathers off nicely. Be 
careful not to bruise or break the skin in any way, because it injures the 
sale. Leave all the entrails in, and head and feet on. Immediately after 
they are dressed, dip once in boiling hot water, letting them remain in 
about ten seconds ; then dip into ice-cold water, allowing them to remain in 
the same length of time, then hang in a cool place where they will dry be- 
fore packing. Ducks should be treated same as fowls or chickens. Pack in 
boxes or barrels in nice, clean rye or oat straw\ Boxes holding from 100 lbs. 
to 200 lbs. are the most desirable style of packages. Pack with breasts down, 
using straw^ between each layer. 

Be sure to pack solid, so they will not bruise on the way. Poultry pre- 
pared in this way will meet with a ready sale, while poorly dressed, sweaty 



FUEL. 



429 



(caused by being packed wbile warm) and brnised lots will not sell at any 
time. Large, fat, dry picked turkeys and chickens sell well. They should 
be picked at once after killing, and hung up until the animal heat is entirely 
out before packing. Remember, it is the appearance of goods that sells tliem. 
Nice, large, fat, plump turkeys, chickens, ducks, or geese, always bring out- 
side prices. 

The best time to ship. — Any time after the tenth of November, so as to 
reach nuirket by Wednesday or Thursday of each week. If sent for the 
holidays, they should arrive at least three days before Thanksgiving, Christ- 
mas or New Year's. Keep the largest turkeys for New Year's. Geese sell 
best at Christmas. 

FUEL. 

Wood. — A table showing the comparative value of various woods is given 
with tlie table of weights and measures. That cut from the body of a nuiture 
tree is best. 

Soft Coal. — The objection to soft coal is the dust that arises from it, and 
the unpleasant smell of the gases of combustion. There is a great difference 
in the quality of soft coals from different mines, and it will be easy to learn 
the best varieties in the local market. 

Hard Coai,. — Bad coal has flat, dull pieces in it which remain hard, heavy 
and whitish when burned, called " bone." If in a scuttle full of coal weigh- 
ing twenty-five pounds, a half pound of these white pieces are found, the coal 
is not good. Coal is ijronounced good if it breaks at right angles firmly and 
with a bright fracture. If it shatters or is full of dull pieces, it is poor in 
quality. There is a vast difference in hard coal, a difference which few un- 
derstand. 



CARVING. 



It is no tritiing accomplishment to carve well, and both ladies and gentle- 
men ought to so far make carving a study that they may be able to perform 
the task with sufficient skill at least to prevent remark. There are no real 
difficulties m the way of mastering the accomplishment ; knowledge simply 
is reijuired. All displays of exertion are in bad taste, i)ecause they indicate 
a want of ability on the part of the carver, or arc a sironu- indication of the 
toughness of the roast or the age of the bird. A good kniie of moderate size 
and great siiarpness is a necessity. Fowls are easily carved, and in roasts 
such as_ loins, breasts, fore-quarters, etc., the butcher should always have 
instructions to separate the joints. The platter should be placed so near to 
tlie carver that he has full control over it; if far otF nothing can prevent an 
ungraceful appearance. In carving a turkey, place the head to the right, cut 
off the wing nearest you first, then the leg and second joint; then slice the 
breast until a rounded, ivory -shaped piece appears; insert the knife between 
that and the bone and separate them ; this part is the nicest bit of the breast; 
next comes the " merry-thought." After this, turn over the bird a little, 
and just below the breast you will hnd the oyster," which you can separate 
as you did the inner breast. The side bone lies beside the rump, and the 
desired morsel can be taken out without separating the wdiole bone. Pro- 
ceed in till' same way upon the other side. The fork need not be removed 
during tiie whole process. An experienced carver will dissect a fowl as 
easily as you can break an egg or cut a potato. He retains his seat, manages 
his hands and elbows artistically, and is perfectly at his ease. There is no 
difficulty in the matter; it only requires knowledge and practice, and these 
should be taught in the family, each child taking his turn. Chickens and 
partridges are carved in the same way. The trail of a woodcock on toast is 
the choicest bit of the bird; also the thigh of a partridge. 

A flllet of veal is cut in thin, smooth slices oft' the top, and portions of the 
stuffing and fat are served to each. In cutting a breast of veal, separate the 
breast and brisket, and then cut them up. 

Sirloin of Beef. — In carving 



beef, mutton, lamb, and veal, thin, 
smooth, and neat slices are desira- 
ble — cut across the gra'in^ taking care 
to pass the knife through to the 
bones of the meat. There are two 
modes of helping a sirloin of beef; 
either by carving long, thin slices 
from 3 to 4, and helping it with a 
bit of the fat underneath the ribs, 
or bv cutting thicker slices, from 




1 to L\ through the tenderloin. 




Shoulder of !Mutton. — A shoulder 
of mutton should ])e cut down to the 
bone, in the direction of the line 1, 
and then thin slices of leaji taken from 
each side. The ])est fat is found at 2, 
and should be cut in thin slices in that 
direction. Several tempting slices can 
be cut on either side of the line 3, and 
there are nice bits on the under side 
near the flap. 



(430) 



CAR vrxG. 



431 



Ham. — A ham may be carved in 
three ways: First, by cutting long, 
delicate slices, through the thick fat 
from 1 to 2, down to the bone ; sec- 
ondly, by running the point of the 
knife in the circle in the middle, 
and cutting thin circular slices, thus 
keeping the ham moist ; and last, 
and most economically, by begin- 
ning at the knuckle, 4-5, and slicing 
upward. 

Leg of ^SIuttox. — In carving a 
leg of mutton the best slices are ob- 





tained from the center, by cutting 
from 1 to 2; and some very good 
cuts are found on the broad end 
from 5 to 6. Some epicures prefer 
slices nearer the knuckle, but they 
are dry. The cramp-bone is a deli- 
cacy, and is ol^tained by cutting 
down to the bone at 4, and running 

the knife under it in a semicircular direction to 3. The fat so esteemed by 
many lies on the ridge 5. By turning over the meat some excellent slices 
are found, and can be cut lengthwise. 

Tongue. — A tongue should be 
carved as "thin as a wafer;" its deli- 
cacy depending in a great degree 
upon that. A well-cut tongue tempts 
the most fastidious; and this applies, 
in fact, to all kinds of roast and 
boiled meats. A chunk of beef we _ 
turn from with disgust — an artistic ^ 
slice we enjoy. The center slices of 
the tongue are considered the best, 
and should be cut across at the line 1, and the slices taken from each side, 
with a portion of the fat which is at its root, if it is liked. The question 
should be asked. 

Haunch of Venison. — A haunch 
of venison should be cut across to 
the bone on the line 1-3-2, then turn 
the dish a little, and put the point 
of the knife at 3, and cut down as 
deep as possible in the direction of 
3-4, and continue to cut slices on the 
right and left of the line. The fat- 
test parts are found between 4 and 2. A loin of veal or a loin of mutton 
should be jointed by the butcher before it is cooked, and the carver easily 
cuts through the ribs. He should serve a portion of the kidney and the fat 
on each ])late. 

In serving fish, some practice is needful, for lightness of touch and dex- 
teritv of management are necessary to prevent the flakes from breaking. In 
serving mackerel, shad, etc., a part of the roe should be placed on each plate. 
The hns of the turbot are the most sought for; the hsh is placed underpart 
uppermost on the platter, as there lies the primest part. In carving salmon, 
a portion of the back and belly should be served to each person. The choicest 
morsels are next to the head,^the thin part comes next, and the tail is the 
least esteemed. The Havor of the fish nearest the bone is not equal to that 
on the upper part. 




HOW TO CUT AND CUEE MEATS. 



It is often economical for a family to buy beef by the quarter, and' 
srnaller animals whole, especially when wanted for winter use, and every 
housekeeper ought to know how to cut up meats and to understand the 

uses and relative value of the pieces. It 
is not difficult to cut up beef, and is very 
easy to reduce any of the smaller animals 
to convenient proportions for domestic use ; 
and in order to make the subject clear 
we present the accompanying engravings, 
the first of which represents the half of a 
beef, including, of course, the hind and 
fore-quarters. The letters indicate the 
direction in which the cuts should be 
made, beginning in the order of the al- 
phabet, cutting first from A to B, then 
C to D, etc. In the fore-quarter cut from 
A to B, from B to C, from D to E, etc. 
For cutting, use a sharp, long, and pointed 
knife, and a saw of the best steel, sharp, 
and set for butcher's use. The beef should 
be laid on, a bench or table with the inner 
side up. In hind quarter 1 represents the 
" rump," which is best corned ; 2, "round," 
the under part of which makes steaks, the 
outside good corning pieces, or the whole 
may be used for dried beef; 3, "shank'* 
for soups; 4, "rump steaks;" 5, "veiny 
piece" for dried beef or corning; 6, sirloin, 
the best steak ; 7, flank for corning or 
stews; 8, porterhouse, the upper part of 
which is equal to sirloin. Cut in this 
way a part of the tenderloin, the choicest 
bit of the beef, lies in the sirloin, and 
a smaller part in the upper part of the 
porterhouse steak. In the fore-quarter 1 is the "rib piece" for boiling or 
corning; 2, the "plate" piece for corning; 3, the "fore-shank" for soup; 
5, the "rib roast," first cut; 6, "rib roast," best cut, and the best roast in 
the beef; 7, "chuck rib roast," commonly used for "pot roast;" 8, neck 
piece, for corning or pie meat ; 9, best cut for corn beef. 
(432) 




HOW TO CUT AND CUBE MEATS. 



435 



VEAL. 



A— Loin, best end, for roasting. 
B— Loin, chump end, for roasting. 
C— Fillet, for baking or roasting. 
D— Knuckle, for stewing. 
j]_Fore-knuckle, for stewing. 
F—Neck, best end, for roasting. 
G_Neck, scrag end, for stewing. 
H— Blade bone. 
I— Breast, for stewing. 
K— Brisket, for stewing. 




PORK. 



A— Back, lean part for roast. 
B_Loin, for roast. 
C— Bacon, to be cured. 
D— Shoulder, to be cured. 
E— Ham, to be cured. 

MUTTON. 

A— Leg, for boiling piece. 
B_Loin, for roast. 
C— Rump piece, for roast. 
D— Chops, frying or broiling. 
E— Fore-shoulder for boiling. 
E— Neck, for stewing or roasting. 
G— Brisket, for stewing. 




Sptcfd Cokned Beef.-To ten pounds beef, take two cups salt, two cups 

'''i:^^:i'^J'::^^C^^^-i sUces suitaWe.for cooking 

wa^nfed^fo?" l^scS offlhe^a?^^^^ a layer of meat, and always be 

par"v,l. to meit the'lard and return it inunediatehj to tl.e jar. It wUl keep 

*^rNKw'wtrTo" Smoke HAMS.-Smoke the barrel, in which the hams are 
to be tickled bv inverting it over a kettle containing a slow fire of hard 
wood for eight days (keeping water on the head to prevent shrinking); m 



434 



HOW TO CUT AND CURE MEATS. 



usual manner. Tlioy will be cured in eight or nine days, and they may be 
kept in tlie pickle U)r a year without daniage. 

To Kei-:p Lard from Molding.— Use a tub that has had no tainted lard 
or meat in it; scour it out thoroughly witli two quarts of wheat bran to four 
of boiling water, hut use no lye or soap. Fry the lard until the scraps are 
brown, but not scorched or })urned ; remove^from tlie tire, cool until it can 
be handled, and strain into the ])repared tnh\ when cold, set it away in the 
cellar. Lard di})ped off as fast a.s it melts will look very white, but will not 
keep through the summer. No salt should be added, as it induces moisture 
and invites mold. 

To Keep Meat Fresh in Hot Weather.— For a tive-pound piece of meat 
take a three-gallon stone crock; luive some pans of skimmed milk that is 
turning sour, just getting thick; jnit some of the milk in the crock; then 
put in the meat; then ])Ut in milk till it covers the meat; now turn an 
earthen disli or plate ))Ott(un-up on the meat to hold it down ; till the crock 
wdth the milk: tie a cloth over the top, and set in a cool place; it will keep 
five or six days in the hottest weather. When wanted for use, wash thor- 
oughly in water, and cook in any manner desired. 

To Keep Hams. — For one htmdred i)Otinds of meat, take eigbt potmds of 
salt, two oinices saltpetre, and four aallons water; put hams in this })ickle 
in the fall, keeping them well under the ])rine ; in April, take out, drain three 
or four days, slice as for cooking, fry nearly as much as f(jr table, pack in 
stone jars, pressing down the slices as fast as they are laid in the jars; when 
full, put on a weight, and when entirely cold cover with the fat fried out. 
Prepared in this way, they retain the hain Havor without being smoked. The 
gravy left from frying wid be found very useftil in cooking. 

To Cure Hams. — In the fall, about the tirst of X()vend)cr, people in tbe 
country generally kill a good-sized pig, to last until '•butchering time." To 
cure the hams of such, tirst rub well, es})ecially arotmd the bone on fleshy 
side, with oiu^-half of the salt, sugar, cayenne and salt})etre, well pulverized 
(same proportions as for corned-beef ). adding a teaspoon of allspice to eacb 
ham; put a layer of salt in bottom of cask, and pack in bams as closely as 
possible; let stand three or four days, then make a biine of the other half 
of salt, etc., and pour over meat, putting a good weight on top; when it has 
lain three or four weeks it is ready for use. 

To Cure and Dry Beef Tongues. — For one dozen tongues make a brine 
of a gallon and a half of water (or enough to cover them well), two pints good 
salt, one of molasses, or one pound brown sugar, and four red peppers; bring 
to a boil, skin, and set to cool. Pack the tongues in a large jar, and when 
the brine is entirely cold, pour it over them, put on a weight, let remain 
ten or twelve days, take out, drain, and hamr to smoke about two days, then 
dry moderately, and put away in a flour sack in a dry place. When\vanted 
for use, boil six or eight hours in a pot filled with water, adding more when 
necessary so as to keep well covered all the time until done; when done, 
take out and set away to cool, but do not skin till needed for the table. 

Sausage. — For ten pounds meat take five tablespoons sage, four of salt 
and two of pep[)er. Some add one tablespoon ginger, and some a little 
sunnner savory. When nicely minced, pack in jars, and treat precisely as in 
preceding recipe— ''To Keep Hams." If kept in a cool place, and care 
taken to replace the lard, there is no difficulty in keeping sausage perfectly- 
fresh almost any length of time. Some persons partially cook meat before 
packing, but this is ))of necessary. Fresh meat may be' kept nicely in the 
same way, being first seas(^ned wdth salt and pe})i)er. 

Or. one po\ind salt, one-half pint of sage and three and one-half ounces 
pepper, scattered over forty pounds of meat before grinding. 

Beef-steak for Winter Use.— Cut the steak large, and the usual thick- 
ness; have ready a mixture made of salt, sugar and finely powdered salt- 
petre, mixed in the same })roportion as for corning beef; sprinkle the bottom 
of a large jar with salt, lay in a piece of steak, and sprinkle over it some of 



HOW TO CUT AND CURE MEATS. 



435 



the mixture, as much or a little more than yon would use to season in cook- 
in<^ then put in another slice, sprinkle, and so on till jar is tilled, with a 
spnnkle of the mixture on top; over all, put a plate, wiih a weiuht oii it, 
and set in a cool, airv place, where it will not freeze. This needs no brine 
as it makes a brine of its own. Twenty-five or thirty i)()unds may he Kept 
perfectly sweet in this way. Take out to use as wanted, and broil or try as 

usual. , X ^1 .1 

ViRcnxiA Sausace r^lEAT.— Pick the sausa-c meat to get out ad the i.ieces 
of bone^ and strimz-s ; wash it in lukewarm water, and lay on a table to 
drain • let it stand all night. Take oh' some of the fat from the backl)one to 
nnx with the lean. If vou use ''leaf fat" when you fry the saitScige, it will 
melt awav to gravv and'leave a little knot of lean, hard and dry, floating lu 
a sea of "melted grease. The fat must be taken oiY before the chines are 
malted and washed, skinned and put to drain with tlie lean. >cxt day, chop 
it tine', picking out all the .strings. When fine enougli, season it with salt, 
sage, black and red pepper, to taste. Pack it in a close vessel. If you wisli 
to^tulf them have some nicel v-cleaned cliitterlings kept in salt aiu water 
ten days or a fortnight. Stutr. hang on stieks and dry. A little smoke im- 
proves"^ them ; too much makes them bitter. _ 

To 8\iT Pork.— Allow the meat to stand until the ammai heat is entirely 
out of it; cut the sides into strips crosswise; cover the bottom of a barrel 
with salt, and pack in the pork closely edgewise, with rind next the barrel : 
cover each laver with salt, and proceed in like manner until all has been put 
in Make a strong brine suflficient to cover the pork (soft water is best, and 
there is no danaer of getting it too salt), boil, skim and pour into the barrel 
while boilinq hot. Have a board cut out round, a little smaller than the bar- 
rel put over the pork, and on it place a weight heavy enough to keep it 
always under the brine. If at any time the brine froths or looks red, it 
must be turned off, scalded and returned while hot. Never jmt cold brine on 
old pork, unless vou wish to lose it. In salting down a new supply of pork, 
boil down the old brine, remove the scum, and then pour it over the pork as 

directed above. . . ^ i ..i ^ 

Trying Lard.— Cut the fat into small pieces, put into kettle, and pour m 
enough water to cover the bottom ; boil gently until the scraps ^ settle, or 
until the water has all evaporated, stirring often to prevent burning, lake 
off, strain into stone jars, and set in a cool place. The quality of the lard is 
improved bv sprinkling over and slowly stirring in one tablespoon of soda to 
every five gallons of lard, just before removing from the fire After adding 
soda: the kettle must be removed from the stove, and Nvatched closely, and 
stirred constantly, as it foams rapidly, and is very likely to run over, and, 
if on stove, is likely to take fire. The leaf should be tried by itself for the 
incest cooking. That from the smaller intestines, and the fiabby pieces not 
fit for salting, should be thrown into lukewarm water ancl allowed to stand 
for twenty-four hours, and then should be tried by itself, and the lard set 
away where it will freeze, and, by spring, the strong taste will be gone. A 
tea-cup of water prevents burning while trying u ^ ^f 

How TO Cut up Pork.— Split through the spme, cut off each half of head 
behind the ear, remove the pieces in front of the shoiilder, for sausa^. 
Take out ?er/f which lies around kindeys, for lard ; cut out the lean meat ribs, 
etc then the ham and .shoulder, and remove the loose pieces directly m 
front of the ham, for lard. Cut oif a narrow strip of the belly, for sausage ; 
ajid cut up the remainder, wliich is clear pork, into five or six strips ot 
about equal width, for salting down. Smoke the jowl with hams, and use 
the upT>er part of the head for boiling, or baking, or head-cheese. 

Scorch the feet over the fire until the hoofs remove easily, scrape clean, 
place in hot water a few minutes, wash and scrape thoroughly, and they aue 

ready for cooking. , . n r ^ r 

An the Habbv pieces should be tried up for lard. Remove all fat from in- 
testines, saving tha^ which does not easily come oif tlie larger intestines for 



436 



HOW TO CUT AND CUBE MEATS. 



soap-grease. Tlie liver, heart, sweet-breads and kidneys are all used for boil- 
ing or frjdng, and the smaller intestines are sonietimes\ised for sausage cases 

The Despard Red Round.— A round of beef weigliing twenty-five pounds 
one ounce of cloves, three ounces of saltpetre, three ounces of coarse sugar' 
half an ounce of allspice, six ounces of common salt, one nutmeg. The 
beef should hang two or thee days; then take out the bone, rub the spices 
and salt thoroughly together, and rub them well into the beef on both sides- 
cover the beef, turn and rub it every day for from two to three weeks.' 
When you wish to use it, dip it in cold water to remove the loose spice; bind 
it closely several times around the sides with a long strip of cotton cloth two 
inches wide; put it in a i)an with half a pint of water in the bottom to pre- 
vent burning; cover the top of the meat with shred suet, and cover the pan 
with a crust half an inch thick, made of water and Graham or other flour, 
seeing that it adheres to the edge of the i)an. Lay a brown paper over the 
crust; bake it slowly for rive or six hours. The gravv. of which there will 
be a large quantity, may be used in soup, in beef-i)ie, or in hash. The place 
from which the bone was taken may be rubbed witli fine chopped parsley 
and sweet herbs may be laid between the skin and the meat. ' 

To Clean Beef Tripe.— Empty the paunch, rinse it thoroughly in cold 
water, being careful not to let any of the contents get on the outside. 
Make strong cleansed water or white lye, let it heat a little, too warm to 
hold the hands in. pour it over the tripe in a tub, let it stand two or three 
hours, then tack it up against a board, and with a knife scrape downwards, 
taking off the inner skin, or rinse it clean in cold water; sprinkle lime over,' 
put in a tub, cover with warm water, and let it stand two or three hours' 
then scrape it with a knife ; if the dark does not all come off easily, sprinkle 

scrape again, and rinse 

in cold water until clean. Place it in water enough U) cover with a large 
handful of salt, let it remain in the salt water three davs and nights, chang- 
ing it each day, then take it out, cut in pieces about'six inches wide and 
twelve long, lay in buttermilk for a few hours to whiten ; then rinse it clean 
in cold water, and hoil until tender; it will take from four to ten hours, as 
it should be done so that it can be mashed with the fingers. After thus pre- 
pared it can be cooked as preferred. 

To Ccre Hams and Bacon.— When killed and cool cut up, and begin im- 
mediately to salt them. Rub the outside of each ham with a teaspoon of 
powdered saltpetre, and the inside with a teaspoon of cayenne pepper. Hav- 
ing mixed together two pounds of brown sugar and salt, inixed in the propor- 
tion of one pound and a half of sugar to a pint of salt, rub the pork well 
with it. This quantity of sugar and salt will be sufficient for fifty pounds 
of meat. Have ready some large tubs, the bottom sprinkled with 'salt, and 
lay the meat in the tubs with the skin downward. Put j)lenty of salt be- 
tween each layer of meat. After it has lain ei«?ht davs, take it out and wipe 
off the salt, and wash the tubs. Make a pickle of soft water, equal quanti- 
ties of salt and molasses and a little saltpetre; allowin;^^ five ounces of saltpetre 
to two ([uarts of molasses and two quarts of salt, which is the proportion for 
fifty pounds of meat. The pickle must be strong enouLrh to bear up an egg. 
Boil and skim it, and, when it is cold, pour it over tlie meat, which must be 
turned frequently and basted with the pickle. The hams should remain in 
the pickle at least four weeks; the bacon three weeks. They should then 
be taken out and smoked. Having washed off the ])ickle, before you smoke 
the meat, l)ury it while wet in a tub of bran. This will form a crust over it 
and prevent evaporation of the juices. Let the smoke-house be ready to 
receive the meat immediately. Take it out of the tub after it has lain half 
an hour, and rub the bran evenly over it. Then hang it up to smoke with 
the small end downward. Tongues may be cured in the above manner. 

Brine for Beef, Hams and 8norLDERs.— To one hundred pounds beef, 
take eight pounds salt, five of sugar or five pints inolas.ses (Orleans best, but 
any good will do), two ounces soda, one ounce .saltpeter, four gallons soft 



HOW TO GUT AND CURE MEATS. 



437 



water or enouf?li to cover the meat. Mix part of the salt and sugar t(;gether, 
each piece and place it in tlie barrel (oak is best), having covered the bot- 
tom wkh salt. When tlie meat is all in, put the remainder ot salt and sugar 
in the water. Dissolve the soda and saltpeter in liot water, add it to the brine 
and pour over tlie meat; place a board on top of meat with a weight suft- 
c ent to keep it under the brine. Let tlie pieces mten.led tor dried beet re- 
n^h> in the'brine for three weeks, takeout, ,.lace ,11 a "J^' ' >7 ^f' 

let stand over night, string and dry. String it (smoke tor a fe\\ da\ s, it >oi 
ike) 1 ang it up to ceiling over the kitchen stove, or on a frame set liehmd 
the stove turn round once a day so as to give all parts an equal e.xposure, 
and let remain for three or four weeks. Test by <-utting a jiiece, wli ch 
should be well dried on tlie outside, and free ironi rawness to tlie center. 
When dried, sprinkle witli ground black pepper, init ,n paper sacks, tie up 
tiVlitlv and hang in a cool, d?y, dark place, or put, without sacks, in an empty 
flo r barrel a id'eover closelv Boil brine, skim well, let cool and potir over 
the bonv pieces left. Tlie.se are good boiled ami eaten either hot or cok , and 
tliey wiU keep good for several montlis. Tongue may be pickled with the 

'"'^Brine made the same wav, with the addition of two pounds inore of salt, 
is go d for hams and shoulders. Take part of tlie mixture of salt and sugar 
rub each piece tlioroughly on fleshy side, lay in barrel (having hrst covered 
the bottom vvitli salt) Skin side dowh. When all are m, make a pickle of he 
JeLhider o 1 e m xture, as directed in '• Brine for Beet, ' pour over the 
mea 1 ave a round board a little smaller than the barre , p ace on the 11 eat 
wfth a weight (a lar^-e stone is good, which may be washed clean and laid 

Tw^v to be' use.l year after year), -^^^'^'^^^ ^'^'^ J';:^''^!', '^^ 
remain from four to eisjht weeks, according to size; take out, dram, sjir nkle 
wi "Uenne ai-i.und the bone. Hang them ready to 

rraokeTt the, 1 drain for two days, and then smoke with c..rn cbs or green 
lickorv or maple wood, taking care to liave smoke, ut f - '-""^ 
heat Hang up to smoke with hock downwards, as the skin then le aiiis the 
iuices o the meat. After smoking four weeks take down, sprinkle with 
ground black pepper, tie tightly, in whole paper sacks, hang m a dry, dark 
loo ace w-a cluing eloselv fof fear of mold. Or, wrap in paper, sevy ,n a 
coarsr c ,tton ba<' whitewash on the outside and hang near the roof in the 
gar e?' ^ wrap in brown paper, and cover with dnj a.bes (dry leaclied ashes 
are best or pack without sacks, hock end uppermost, in oats or shelled 
corn or n clean, sweet hav, before Hies come. Cover box or barrel closely 
and keep n a <lrv, cool place. If there is any danger froin Hies, take direct 
from smoke-hous; and "^pack immediatel.v. Brine f^,>;,l-k «1 pork s icmld 
have all the salt it will dissolve, and a peck or half ''"f , " ^ 
rel U pork is salted in this manner it will never spoi . but the stiength ot 
the br ne makes it neces.sarv to salt the hams and side meats separately. 
Pork wi ei k lied shouhl be thorougldn cooled before saltmfj, but should not re- 
main m er than one or two davs. It should never be frozen before salting 
rthis l^as injurious as .salting before it is cooled. . Larg« ^ '^^^^^^^^ Vork 
are lost bv failing to observe tliese rules. If pickled pork begins to sour, 
t-Ike it oitt of the brine rinse well in clear, cold water, jilace a layer in a bar- 
rel on tl^s place cdiarcoal in lumps the size of a hen's egg or smaller, add a 
of meat uul so on until all is in tlie barrel, cover with a weak brine, 
:n i^td"twenty-fotir hmtrs ; take meat out, rinse off the charcoa^l pt, it into 
a new strong brine, remembering always to have plenty of salt m tlie barrel 
fmor^ than tlie water will dissolve). If the same barrel is used, cleanse it by 
Xcin< a small quantity of quicklime in it, slack with hot w-ater, add as much 
?a t r^tlirwater will dissolve, and cover tightly to keep the steam in; let 
stand for a few hours or over night, rinse well, and it is ready for use This 
L an exceUent wav to cleanse any barrel that has become impure. The pork 
must not be salted in whisky barrels; molasses barrels are the best. The 
whisky is said to injure the bacon.— i). Buxton. 



HI^^TS ON BUTTER-MAKING. 



_ 3So sloven can make good butter. Tlu' t,, l,c^ ke|,r in mind, morn- 

ing noon, and nigiit, is neatness, neatnes.. neatness. Tiie millving should 
be done m the eleanest plaee that can be f.nui.l. and th,. e,jws ..liould be kept 
as clean as possible. Wash the teats uddrrs thonnighlv with plenty of 
cold water, and wipe with a cloth or towel. Never wash with the h'and 
moistened witli milk from tlie eow. The least impurity faints the cream 
and takes from the sweetness of the butter. Milk perfectly clean (as the 
last quart is twice as rich in butter as the first), and tlie quicker the milkins 
IS done the more milk is obtained. The milk-room should be clean and 
sweet. Its air pure, and temperature about 02 degrees. As soon as a j.ail is 
tilled, take to the milk-room and strain the milk through a fine wire-cloth 
strainer, kept for the purpose, and not attached to the pail (the simple 
s rainer being more easily kept clean). Never allow milk to stand in the 
stab e and cool, as it absorbs the foul odors of tlie place. The pans (flat stono 
crocks with flaring sides are better than tin pans. In winter hot water 
should be poured into them while milking is being done, and poured out 
JUS before straining the milk into them) should be set on slats, rather than 
shelves, as it is important to have the milk cooled from the animal heat as 
soon as possible. Skim each day, or at longest witliin twenty-four hours 
bouringdoe.s not injure the quality of tlie cream, but the milk should not 
be allowed to become watery. Do not u.se a perforated skimmer, but re- 
move a htt c of the milk with the cream, as this does not injure the quality 
or lessen the quantity of butter, and gives more well-flavored buttermilk, 
which IS a favorite and wholesome drink. If there is cream enough each 
day, It should, of course, be churned, and this plan makes the best butter, 
although 1 takes longer to churn it. If not, the cream should be set aside 
in a cool place, covered, and stirred thoroughly wlienever more is added It 
ought not to .stand more timn two days, and must not be allowed to become 
bitter and laky. The best plan is to churn as .soon as it becomes slightly 
acid, fecald the churn and dash thorouglily, a.ul put in the cream at a tem"- 
perature of .-,8 degrees. The motion of the clnirn will .soon bring it up to 
about 60 degrees. When the butter conies put a quart or tw,> of cold, soft 
water (or ice is better) into the churn to liarden the butter, and make it 
easier to gather up. After gathering it as well as po.ssible with the dash, it 
.should be removed to the table or bowl, and thoroughly worked with a flat 
wooden paddle, (never with the hand, as tlie insensible perspiration will 
more or less taint the butter), using an abundance of cold ,oft water to wash 
out the buttermilk and harden the butter. By this proee.ss the buttermilk 
IS removed quickly, and there is no need of excessive working, which in- 
jures the grain of the butter. This is especially true of that which is to be 
(438) 



HINTS ON B UTTER-MAKING. 



43^ 



packed, as it keeps longer when well washed. If to ])e used immediately, 
the washing may be less thorough. Another and better plan is to remove 
the butter to a marble slab and lay on the top of it a piece of ice. As it 
settles down by its own weight, work it up around the edges with the paddle, 
and the water from the melting ice will wash out and carry off the butter- 
milk. Before or during the cluirning. the bowl (which should never ])e 
used for any thing else) in which the butter is to be salted, should be tilled 
with scalding water, which should remain for ten minutes; })our out and 
rub both bowl and paddle with hard coarse salt, which prevents butter from 
sticking. Pdnse thoroughly and fdl with cold or ice-water to cool. After 
washing butter free from milk, remove to this bowl, having first poured out 
the cold water, and (the butter-bowl and paddle should occasionally be 
scoured with sand or ashes, washed thoroughly with soap-suds, and rinsed 
until all smell of soap has disappeared) work in gradually salt which has 
been pulverized by rolling, and freed from foreign substances. If wanted 
for use, one-half ounce of salt to the pound of butter is sufhcient, but if 
wanted for packing, use three-fourths of an ounce or even an ounce of salt. 
Use only the best quality of dairy salt. After salting, cover with cotton 
cloth soaked in brine, and set away in a temperature of about GO degrees for 
twelve hours. Work the second time just enougli to get the remaining but- 
termilk out. This, however, must be done thoroughlj^ as otherwise the 
acid of the buttermilk will make the butter rancid. At the end of the 
second working it is ready for use, and should be kept in a clean, sweet place, 
as it soon absorbs bad odors and becomes tainted. The air of a cellar in 
which are decaying vegetables soon ruins the sweetest butter. In packing for 
market (ash butter tubs are the neatest and best packages) soak the package 
for twelve liours in brine strong enough to float an egg, pack the butter in 
evenly and finnly, having first put in a thin layer of salt. If the tub is not 
filled by the first ])acking, set away until next churning, in a cool place, 
with a cotton cloth wet in brine spread over the butter, and place cover 
carefully on the tub. When filled lay over the butter a cotton cloth (from 
which the sizing has been washed) soaked in strong brine, nail up the tub, 
and set away in a clean, cool place until ready to sell. 

In packing for family use, work into rolls, lay in large stone crocks, cover 
with brine strong enough to float an egg (one pint of salt to a gallon of 
water), in which a level tea-spoon of saltpetre and a pound of white sugar 
to each two gallons have been added; over it place a cotton cloth and a 
weight to kee]) the butter under the brine, and tie a paper over the top 
of crock. Or, pack in a stone jar, pressing it solid with a wooden pestle, 
cover with a cloth wet in brine, and sprinkle over it salt an incli^ thick. 
More sugar may be added to the brine without injtiry ; if butter is to be 
kept a long time it is a good rule to always make brine so strong that salt 
will lie at the bottom of the jar. Some boil and skim the ])rine and when 
coW, pour it over the butter. When ready to i>ack the next churning, re- 
move the cloth with the salt carefully, rinsing off with water any that may 
have been scattered in uncovering it, pack butter as before, replace cloth 
with salt over it, and repeat until jar is filled to within two inches of the 
top, cover all with cloth, add salt to the top of crock, tie paper over the top, 
and set in a cool place. In removing for use each churning comes out by 
itself. 



THE LAUNDRY 



When inviting friends to visits of a week or more, try to fix the time for 
the visit to hegin the day after the ironing is done. The girl feels a" weight 
off her mind, has time to cook the meals better, and is a much more willing 
attendant upon guests. 

Do not have beefsteak for dinner on washing or ironing days — arrange to 
have something roasted in the oven, or else have cold meat also. 

Do not have fried or boiled fish. The smell sticks, and the clothes will not 
be sweet ; besides the broiler and frying-pan take longer to clean. 

As for vegetables, do not have spinach, pease, string-beans, or apple-sauce. 
All these good things take time to prepare, and can be avoided as well as not. 
Have baked white and sweet potatoes, macaroni, boiled rice, parsnips, sweet 
€orn, stewed tomatoes, any canned vegetables in winter. For dessert, baked 
apples and cream, bread-pudding, or something easily prepared. 

When removed from the person, clothing, if damp, should be dried to pre- 
vent mildew, and articles which are to be starched should be mended before 
placing in the clothes-basket. Monday is the washing day with all good 
housekeepers. The old-fashioned programme for a washing is as follows: 
Use good soft water if it can be had. If not, soften a barrel-full of well-water 
by pouring into it water in which half a peck or more of hard wood ashes 
have been boiled, together with the ashes themselves. When enough has 
been added to produce the desired effect, the water takes on a curdled 
appearance, and soon settles perfectly clear. If milky, more ashes and lye 
must be added as before, care being taken not to add more than is necessary 
to clear the water, or it will affect the hands unpleasantly. On the other 
hand, if too little is put in, the clothes will turn yellow. Gather up all 
clothes which are ready on Saturday night, and the rest as they are taken 
off; separate the fine from the coarse, and the less soiled from the dirtier. 
Scald all table linen and articles which have coffee, fruit, or other stains 
which would be "set" by hot suds, by pouring over them hot w^ater from 
the tea-kettle and allowing them to stand until cool. Have the water in the 
tub as warm as the hand w411 bear, but not too hot. (Dirty clothes should 
never be put into very hot clear water, as it " sets " the dirt. Hot soap-suds, 
however, has the opposite effect, the water expanding the fiber of the fabric, 
while the alkali of the soap softens and removes the dirt.) Wash first one 
boiler full, taking the cleanest and finest through two suds, then place in a 
boiler of cold water, with soap enough to make a good suds. A handful of 
borax to about ten gallons of water helps to whiten the clothes and is used 
by many, especially by the Germans, who are famous for their snowy linen. 
(440) 



THE LAUNDRY. 



441 



This saves in soap nearly half. For laces, cambrics, etc., an extra quantity of 
the powder is used, and for crinolines (requiring to be made stiff ), a strong 
solution is necessary. Borax, being a neutral salt, does not in the slightest 
degree injure the texture of the linen. Its effect is to soften the hardest water. 
Another way to whiten clothes is to throw a handful of tansy into the boiler 
in which clothes are boiling. It will make the water green, but will whiten 
the clothes. Let them boil, with cover off boiler, not more than jive or ten min- 
utes, as too long boiling "yellows" the clothes. (Some advocate strongly no 
boiling.) Remove to a tub, pour over them cold water slightly blued, and 
turn all garments, pillow-slips, stockings, etc., wrong-side out. (If there are 
more to boil, take out part of the boiling suds, add cold water, and fill not 
too full with clothes. Repeat until all are boiled. The removal of part of 
the suds, and filling up with cold water, prevents the suds from " yellowing" 
the clothes.) Wash vigorously in this water (this is called "sudsing"), 
■wringing verj' dry by hand, or better with the wringer, as the clear appear- 
ance of the clothes depends largely on thorough wringing. Rinse in another 
tub of soft water, washing with the hands, not simply lifting them out of the 
water and then wringing, as is practiced by some, because all suds must be 
rinsed out to make them clear and wdiite. Wring and shake out well and put 
into water pretty well blued, putting in one article after another until the 
first boilerful is all in. Stir up occasionally, as the blue sometimes settles to 
the bottom, and thus spots the clothes. (This time well-water may be used 
if soft water is difficult to obtain.) Wring out again and for the last time, 
placing the clotlies which are to be starched in one basket, and the rest, 
which may be hung out immediately, in another. While the first lot of 
clothes is boiling, prepare the second, take out first, put second in boiler, and 
*'suds" and rinse first. In this way the first is finished and hung out while 
the later lots are still under way. Have the starch (see recipes) ready as hot 
as the hand can bear, dip the articles and parts of articles which need to be 
very siiff first "clapping" the starch w^ell in with the hands, especially in 
shirt-bosoms, wristbands, and collars, and then thin the starch for other arti- 
cles which require less stiffening. When starched, hang out on the line to 
dry, first wiping the line with a cloth to remove all dirt and stains. Shake 
out each article until it is free from wrinkles, and fasten securely on the line 
(with the old-fa.shioned split clothes-pins), being careful to hang sheets and 
table-linen so that the selvage edges will be even. The line should be 
stretched in the airiest place in the yard, or in winter a large attic is a better 
place for the purpose. (Freezing injures starch, and for that reason it is 
hetter in winter to hang clothes out unstarched until dry, then taking in, 
starching and drying indoors.) When dry. remove from line to clothes- 
basket. y)lace clothes-pins as removed in a basket kept f< >r the purpose, take 
down and roll up the line, remove basket, line, and pins to the house, and 
put the two latter into their proper x^laces. The clothes-line should always 
be carefully put up out of the w^eather when not in use. Wipe it carefully 
with a clean cloth before hanging out clothes, and always count clothes-pins 
when t^atherimr them up. Everv housekeeper ought to provide a pair of 
" 28 ' 



442 



THE LAUNDRY. 



mittens for hanging out clothes, to be used for this purpose and no other. 
Cut them from clean flannel (white seems the most suitable), and line them 
with another thickness of flannel, or make them double, if the flannel is thin. 
These should be kept in a clean place ready for this particular business, and 
nothing else. A good and handy place to keep them is in the clothes-pin 
bag. Turn all garments right side out, shake out thoroughly, sprinkle 
(re-starching shirt-bosoms, wristbands, and collars if necessary). Shak^ out 
night-dresses and under-garments so as to free them from creases, and if they 
are ruffled or embroidered, dip them in thin starch, pull out smoothly, fold 
first, and then, beginning at the top of each garment, roll up, each by itself, 
in a very tight roll, and place in the basket; fold sheets without sprinkling, 
having first snapped and stretched them, and lay on the rest ; over all spread 
the ironing blanket, and let them stand until next morning. Next day iron, 
beginning with the sfieets (which, as well as table linen, must be folded 
neatly and carefully, so that the selvage edges will exactly come together. 
Or, another way to fold and iron a sheet is to bring bottom over top, then 
bring back bottom edge to edge of middle fold, leaving top edge; iron the 
upper surface, then turn the whole sheet over, fold the top edge back to the 
middle edge, and again iron upper surface ; this leaves the sheet folded in 
four thicknesses; now bring the selvage edges together and iron the upper 
surface, and the sheet is done), and taking shirts next, cooling the iron when 
too hot on the coarse towels. In ironing shirts a "a bosom-board" is almost 
indispensable, and an " ironing-board" is a great convenience for all articles. 
The former is a hard wood board an inch thick, eighteen inches long, and 
eight wide, covered with two thicknesses of woolen blanket stuff, overlaid 
with two more of cottton cloth. The cloth is wrapped over the sides and ends 
of the board and tacked on the back side, leaving the face plain and smooth. 
The ironing-board is covered in the same way, but is five feet long, two feet 
wide at one end, and narrowed down with a rounded taper from full width 
at the middle to seven inches at the other end, and the corners rounded. 
This board may be of any well-seasoned wood which will not warp, and 
should be about one inch thick; on this all the clothes are conveniently 
ironed. Alw^ays use cotton holders for the irons. Woolen ones are hot to 
the hand, and if scorched, as they often are, the smell is disagreeable. In 
ironing a shirt or a dress, turn the sleeves on the wrong side, and leave them 
until the rest is done, and then turn and iron them. In this way the bosoms 
are less likely to become rumpled. Pull muslin and lace out carefully, iron 
it over once, and then pull into shape, pick out the embroidery and proceed 
with greater care than before. Embroideries should be ironed on the wrong 
side over flannel. Always have near a dish of clean cold water, so that any 
spot which has been imperfectly ironed may be easily wet w^ith a soft sponge 
or piece of linen, and ironed over again, or any surplus bit of starch removed. 
As fast as articles are finished, they should be hung on the clothes-dryer 
until thoroughly dry, especial care being taken with those which are starched 
stiff, as they retain the starch much better if dried very quickly. Thorough 
airing is necessary, twenty-four hours being none too much. 



THE LAUNDRY, 



443 



If a niacin lie is used in washing, it is better to soak the clothes over night • 
in warm soft water, soaping collars and WTistbands, and pieces most soiled. 
Have separate tubs for coarse and tine clothes. In soaking clothes for wash- 
ing Monday, the water should be prepared Saturday night, and all clothes 
which are ready thrown in, and the rest added wlien changed. If washing: 
fluids are used, the recipes which follow are the best. 

Another method is to half fill tubs Saturday night with clear, soft w^ater,- 
warmed a little if con\'enient, but not too hot, made into a weak suds ; in one? 
put the finer articles, such as muslins, cutfs, collars, and shirts; in another 
put table-linen ; in another bed-linen ; in another the dish-cloths and wiping 
towels, and in still another the coarsest and most soiled articles : ahvays put 
the most suiled articles of each division at bottom of tub ; cover all well with 
water and press down. Rub no soap on spots or stains, as it will set " them. 
Of course, articles which can not be had on Saturday night are put in the 
next day as they are changed. Monday morning, heat not very hot a boiler 
full of clean soft water, add to it water in which soap was dissolved Saturday 
night by pouring hot water over it, and stir it thoroughly ; drain off the 
water in which the clothes were soaked after shaking them up and down 
vigorously in it, pressing them against the sides of the tub to get out all the 
w^ater possible. Then pour over tliem the warm suds, and wash out as before 
described, washing each class separately. If found impracticable to make 
BO many divisions, separate the coarse and fine, and the least soiled and the 
dirtiest. 

In the summer, clothes may be washed without any fire by soaking over- 
night in soapy soft water, rubbing out in the morning, soaping the dirty 
places, and laying them in the hot sunshine. By the time the last are spread 
out to bleach, the first may be taken up, washed out and rinsed. This, of 
course, requires a clean lawn. 

Before washing flannels shake out dust and lint ; use soft, clean, cold water, 
in winter merely taking the chill off. Let the hard soan lie in tUfi water, but 
do not apply it to the clothes. Wash the white pieces first, throw articles as 
fast as washed into blued cold water, let them stand twenty or thirty min- 
utes, wash them through this water after dissolving a little soap in it, wring 
hard, shake, and hang up. Wash colored flannels in the same way (but not 
In water used for white, or they will gather tlie lint), and rinse in several 
waters if inclined to "run." When very dirty, all flannels should soak 
longer, and a little borax well dissolved should be added to the water. This 
process is equally good for washing silk goods and silk embroideries. Cali- 
coes and fancy cotton stockings may be washed in the same way, except that 
no soap should be used in the rinsing, Wash gray and brown linens in cold 
water, with a little black pepper in it, and they will not fade. For bluing, 
use the best indigo tied in a strong bag made of drilling. 

To Cleanse Articles made of White Zephye. — Rubin flour or magnesia, 
changing often. Shake off flour and hang in the open air a short time. 

To Remove Ink-stain. — Immediately saturate with milk, soak it up with 
a rag, apply more, rub well, and in a few minutes the ink will disappear. 



444 



THE LAUNDRY. 



To Clean Alpaca. — Sponge with strained coffee. Iron on the wrong side, 
having black cambric under tlie goods. 

Take oit Machine Oil. — Rub with a little lard or butter and wash in 
warm water and soap, or, simply rub first with a little soap and w^ash out 
in cold water. 

To Stiffe.x Linen Cuffs and Collars. — Add a small piece of white wax 
and one tea-spoon brandy to a pint of fine starch. In ironing, if the iron 
sticks, soap the bottom of it. 

In Washinc; Children's Stockings, wooden stocking forms are a great 
help on which to dry theuL Obtain them at the furnishing store, or have 
.them made without much expense. 

To Clean Wash Boilers. — Wash, when a little rusty, with sweet milk; 
■or grease with lard. A better plan is to prevent rust by thoroughly dry- 
ing boiler, as well as tubs, before putting away for tlie week. 

To Take out Paint — Equal parts of ammonia and spirits of turpentine 
will take paint out of clothing, no matter how dry or hard it may be. 
-Saturate the spot two or three times and then wash out in soap-suds. 

To Restore Velvet. — When velvet gets crushed from pressure, hold the 
parts over a basin of hot water, with the lining of the dress next the water. 
The pile will soon rise and assume its original beauty. 

Spots. — In cloth or calico, produced by an acid, may be removed by touch- 
ing the spot with spirits of hartshorn. Spots produced by an alkali may be 
Tenioved by moistening them with vinegar or tartaric acid. 

To Prevent Blue from Fading. — To prevent blue from fading, put an 
ounce of sugar of lead into a pail of water, soak the material in the solution 
for two hours, and let dry before being w^ashed and ironed; good for all 
shades of blue. 

To Take Out Mildew. — W^etthe cloth and rub on soap and chalk, mixed 
together, and lay in the sun ; or lay the cloth in buttermilk for a short 
time, take out and place in the hot sun; or put lemon juice on, and treat 
in the same way. 

To Remove Ink Stains from Clothing.— Dip the spots in pure melted 
tallow; wash out the tallow and the ink will come out. If articles are 
rubbed out in cold water while the stain is fresh, the stain will often be 
entirely removed. 

For Washing Red Table Linen, use tepid water, with a little powdered 
borax, which serves to set the color; wash the linen separately and quickly, 
using very little soap, rinse in tepid water, containing a little boiled starch: 
hang to dry in the shade, and iron when almost dry. 

To Clean Alpaca. — Put goods in a boiler half full of cold rain-water, 
and let boil three minutes. Have ready a pail of indigo-water (very dark 
with indigo), place goods in it, after wringing out of boiling water, let re- 
main one-half an hour, then wring out, and iron while damp. 

How TO Clean Velvet.— Invert a hot flat-iron, place over it a single 
thickness of wet cotton cloth, lay on this the velvet, wrong side next the 
wet cloth, rub gently with a dry cloth until the pile is well raised; take off 
the iron, lay on a table, and brush it with a soft brush or cloth. 

To Take Grease out of Silks, Woolens, Paper, Floors, etc.— Grate 
thick over the spot French (or common, will do) chalk, cover with brown 
paper, set on it a hot flatiron, and let it remain until cool; repeat if neces- 
sary. The iron must not be so hot as to burn i)aper or cloth. 

Substitute for Washing-Soda.^A German scientific journal recommends 
laundresses to use hyposulphite of soda in place of common washing-soda. 
It does not attack the fabric in any way, and at the same time exerts some 
bleaching actions which greatly improve the appearance of linen and calicoes. 

Silver Polish for Shirts.— One ounce each of isinglass and borax, one 
tea-spoon white glue, two tea-spoons white of an egg. Cook well in two 
quarts of fine starch. Starch in this and dry. Before ironing, apply some of 
it to the bosom and cuffs with a cloth till well dampened. Iron at ORce with 
a hot glossing iron. 



THE LAUNDRY. 



445 



To Clean Black Lace.— Take the lace and wipe off all the dust care- 
fully, with a cambric liandkerchief. Then pin it out on a board, insert- 
ing a pin in each projecting point of the lacc. Spot it all over with table- 
beer, and do not remove tiie pins until it is perfectly dry. It will look 
quite fresh and new. 

To MAKE Soap to do away with Ri bbing. — Dissolve five bars of soap in 
four gallons soft water, one and three-fourths pounds sal-soda, and three- 
fourths pound borax; stir while cooling. Use one cupful to make suds t« 
soak clothes in ; wring out and put into the boiler; use same quantity of 
soap for boiling the same. 

Enamel for Shirt Bosoms. — Melt together with a gentle heat, one ounce 
white wax and two ounces spermaceti ; prepare in the usual way a sufficient 
quantity of starch for a dozen bosoms, put into it a piece of this enamel the 
size of a hazel-nut, and in proportion for a large number. This will give 
clothes a beautiful i)olish. 

To Remove thk Color from Buff Calico. — If some kinds of buff calico 
are dipped in strong soda water, the color will be removed and the figures' 
of other colors remain on a white ground. This is valuable sometimes, as 
buff calico spots easily. If pink calico be dipped in vinegar and water 
after rinsing, the color will be brighter. 

To Remove the Stain of Nitrate of Silver — from the fiesh, or white 
goods of any kind, dissolve iodine in alcohol, and apply to the stain; then 
take a piece of cyanide i)otassium, size of a hickory-nut, wet in water, rub 
on the S}>ot, and the stain will immediately disappear; then wash the goods 
or hands in cold water. — G. W. Collini^, Urbana. 

Mother's Hard-times Soap. — Take all the bits of soap that are too small 
to be longer used, shave down, and let soak in soft water enough to cover 
them over night; in the morning add more soft water, and boil until 
thoroughly melted and of the consistency of taffy ; pour into molds, and you 
have a nice cake of soap. — Miss Addie Miimell. 

Coffee Starch. — Make a paste of two table-spoons best starch and cold 
water; when smooth stir in a pint of perfectly clear coffee (made by pouring 
boiling water on the grounds left from breakfast and straining) boiling 
hot; boil five or ten minutes, stir with a spermaceti or wax candle, strain, 
and use for all dark calicoes, percales, and muslins. 

To Remove Iron-Rust.— While rinsing clothes, take such as have spots 
of rust, wring out, dip a wet finger in oxalic acid, and rub on the spot, then 
dip in salt and rub on, and hold on a warm fiatiron, or on the tin or cop- 
per tea-kettle if it have hot water in it, and the spot will immediately dis- 
appear; rinse again, rubbing the place a little with the hands. 

Erasive Fluid. — For the removal of spots on furniture, cloth, silks, and 
other fabrics, when the color is not drawn, without injury : One ounce 
castile soap, four of aqua anmionia, one of glycerine, and one of spirits of 
wine; dissolve the soap in two quarts soft water, add the other ingredients, 
apply with a soft sponge, and rub out.— J. Peabodi/, Cincinnati, 0. 

To Clean White Satin and Flowered Silks.— Mix sifted stale bread- 
crumbs with powder blue, and rub it thoroughly all over, then shake it well 
and dust it well with clean, soft cloths. Afterwards where there are any 
gold or silver flowers, take apiece of crimson ingrain velvet, and rub the 
flowers with it, which will restore them to their original luster. 

For Washing Goods that Fade, use crude ammonia instead of soap. 
Soiled neckties may be made to look like new by taking one-half a tea- 
spoon of spirits of hortshorn to a tea-cup of water; wash well, and; if very 
much soiled, put through a second water, with less ammonia in. Lay it 
on a clean, white cloth, and gently wipe with another until dry. 

Tg Clean Silk and Woolen Dress Goods.— Any silk or wooled goods 
may be washed in gasoline, rubbing as if in water, without injury. The 
dirt is quickly and easily removed, but no change takes ])lace in the color 
of the fabric. Great care vmst be taken not to use the gasoline near a stove or light. 



446 



THE LAUNDRY. 



as 'there is a gas arising from it which is very inflammable, and might take 
fire from a lamp set a foot or two distant. 

In washing the dish-wipers, do not boil them with the fine white dresses, 
shirts, table-cloths, sheets, pillow-cases, napkins, or fine towels, but be as par- 
ticular to have tlie suds nice and clean. It is better to remove a part of 
the suds, and add clean cold water, so that the wipers will not become 
yellow by boiling in too strong a suds. On each wash-day wash thoroughly 
all tliat have been used the previous week. 

Silk and Thread Gloves are best washed by placing them on the hands, 
and washing in borax water or white castile soap-^uds, the same as if wash- 
ing the hands; rinse under a stream of water, and drv with a towel; keep 
the gloves on until they are about half dried, take off carefully, and fold 
them up so that they will look as nearly like what they were when new as 
possible, and lay between clean towels uiider a weight. 

To Clean Ribbons. — Dissolve white soap in boiling water; when cool 
enough to bear the hand, pass the ribbons through it, rubbing gently so as 
not to injure the texture; rinse through lukewarm water, and pin on a 
board to dry. If the colors are bright yellow, maroon, crimson, or scarlet, 
add a few drops of oil of vitriol to the rinse-water; if the color is bright 
scarlet, add to the rinse-water a few drops of the muriate of tin. 

Brown Linen — May be kept looking new until worn out if always washed 
in starch-water and hay tea. Make flour starcli in the ordinary way. For 
one dress put on the stove a common sized milk pan full of timothy hay, 
pour on water, cover, and boil until the water is of a dark green color, then 
turn into the starch, let the goods soak in it a few minutes, and wash'with-- 
out soap ; the starch will clean the fabric and no rinsing is necessary. 

To Wash Colored Muslins.— Wash in warm, not hot, suds, made with 
soft water and best white soap, if it is to be had. Do not soak them, and 
wash only one thing at a time. Change the suds as soon as it looks dingy, 
and put the garments at once into fresh suds. Rinse first in clear water', 
then in slightly blued. Squeeze quite dry, but don't lorinq the dress. Hang 
in a shady place where the sunshine will not strike it, as that fades all colors. 

To Wash Thread Lace.— Cover a bottle with white flannel, baste the lace 
carefully on the flannel, and rub with white soap; place the bottle in a jar 
filled with warm suds, let remain two or three davs, changing the water 
several times, and boil with the finest white clothes on washing day ; when 
cooled a little, rinse several times in plenty of cold water, wrap a soft dry 
towel around it, and place it in the sun; when drv, unwind, but do not 
starch. 

Black Print or Percale Dresses, that have figures of white in them 
may be wasiied nicely by putting them in the "boiling suds," after the other 
clothes have all been removed, and boiling for ten minutes; cool the suds, 
rul) out quickly, rinse in lukewarm water, then in verv blue cold water, and 
starch in coffee starch. After the dress is dried, it is to be dipi)ed into'cold 
water, passed through the wringer, rolled in a coarse towel or sheet and left 
for a couple of hours, then ironed on the wrong side. 

To Wash Delicate Colored Muslins.— Boil wheat bran (about two quarts 
to a dress) in soft water half an hour, let it cool, strain the liquor, and use 
It instead of soap-suds; it removes dirt like soap, keeps the color, and the 
clothes only need rinsing in one water, and even starching is unnecessary 
Suds and rinsing water for colored articles should be used as cold as possible! 
Another way is to make thick corn meal mush, well salted, and use instead 
of soap; rinse in one or two waters, and do not starch. 

To Wash a Silk Dress.— To wash a silk dress with gall soap, rip apart 
and shake off the dust; have ready two tubs warm soft water, make a suds 
of the soap in one tub, and use the other for rinsing; wash the silk, one 
piece at a time, in the suds, wring gently, rinse, again wring, shake out, and 
iron with a hot iron on what you intend to be the wrong side. Thus pro- 
ceed with each piece ; and, when about half done, throw out the suds and 
make suds of the rinsing water, using fresh water for rinsing. 



THE LAUNDRY, 



447 



A Washing Fluid.— The washing fluid made by the following rule is 
invaluable in cleaning woolen goods, in washing woolen tidies, or worsted 
eoods of any kind : One-half bar of Babbitt's or Bell's soap, one ounce salt- 
petre, one ounce borax, four quarts soft water. Dissolve all together over a 
fire- when half cold, add hve ounces spirits of ammonia. The compound 
luav be bottled and is good for an indefinite length of time. It is used just 
as you would use soft soup.— Mrs. Judge West, Bellefontainc, Ohio. 

To "Do Up" Black Silk.— Boil an old kid glove (cut up in small shreds) 
in a pint of water till the water is reduced to a half pint; then sponge the 
silk with it; fold it down tight, and ten Miinutes after, iron it on the wrong 
side while wet. The silk will retain its softness and luster, and, at the 
same time, have the "body" of new silk. 

Or, rip up and brush thoroughly, then sponge m ammonia water, and 
pin out perfectly straight, each width or piece where the sun will shine on 

It and let dry. , x- i i i 

To TAKE OUT Scorch..— If a shirt-bosom, or any other article has been 
scorched in ironing, lav it where bright sunshine will fall directly on it. 
Peel and slice two onions, extract the juice by pounding and squeezing; 
cut up half an ounce of fine white soap, and add to the juice; two ounces 
of fuller's earth and half pint of vinegar. Boil all together. When cool 
spread over the scorched linen, and let dry on ; then wash and boil out the 
linen, and the spots will disappear unless burned so badly as to break the 

threads. , , ^ ^ u -i 

Flour St vrch.— Have a clean pan or kettle on stove with one quart boil- 
ing water into which stir three heaping table-spoons flour, previously mixed 
sniooth in little cold water; stir steadily until it boils, and then often 
enough to keep from burning. Boil about five minutes, strain while hot 
through a crash towel. The above quantity is enough for one dress, and 
will make it nice and stiff: Flour starch is considered better for all cali- 
coes than fine starch, since it makes them stifier, and the stiffness is longer 
reta i n ed 

Pocket for Clothes-Ptns.— A great convenience is the apron pocket for 
clothes pins It takes nearly one yard of calico to make it, the apron or 
pouch being fifteen inches in length, and nearly as wide. Round the cor- 
ner at the bottom. At the top, on each side of the front, two inches 
from the middle, cut out a strip nine inches long, and one and one-halt 
inch wide for pockets. Bind them with lighter colored fabric than the 
apron, that they may be readily seen. Gather into a band and button at 
the back, or put on strings and tie. . , -, r 

How TO W\sh Blankets.— All that is necessary is abundance of soft water, 
and soap without resin in it. Resin hardens the fibers of wool, and should 
never be used in washing anv kind of flannel goods. Blankets treated as 
above will alwavs come out clean and soft. A little bluing may be used m 
washing white blankets. Thev should be shaken and snapped until almost 
drv it will require two persons to handle them. Woolen shawls, and ail 
w^ooien articles, especially men's wear, are much improved by being pressed 
with a hot iron under damp muslin. ^ -,. , , ^ r i r\ 

C4ALL Soap.— For washing woolens, silks, or fine prints liable to fade : One 
pint beef's gall, two pounds common bar soap cut fine, one quart boiling sott 
water - boil slowly, stirring occasionallv until well mixed; pour into a flat 
vessel ' and when cold cut into pieces to dry ; or, a more simple way of using 
gall, is to get a pint bottle filled with fresh beefs gall at the butchers, cork 
tightlv add to the water when washing any material that is liable to fade ; 
using more if articles are very liable to fade, and less if the liability is not 
great. When the bottle is empty or grows stale, get fresh. ^ - , , ^ 

Fruit-St\ins— Colored cottons or woolens stained with wine or fruit should 
be wet in alcohol and ammonia, then sponged off gently (not rubbed) with 
alcohol ; after that if the material will warrant it, washed in tepid soap- 
suds Where white are used the stains may be easily removed by using 



448 



THE LAUNDRY. 



boiling water before the stains are soaped or wetted; pour it on until they^ 
mostly disappear, and then let goods stand in it covered till cold. Peaches,, 
some kinds of pears, and sweet apples make the worst stains ; and if boil- 
ing water is not sufficient, a little javelle water may be used and, if skill- 
fully managed, will not need to be used often. Silks may be wet with this 
preparation when injured by these stains. 

The Use of Turpentine in Washing. — Turpentine should never be used 
when washing is done with the hands, as it is very injurious to the health; 
but when the clothes are pounded in a barrel in the old fashioned way, or 
when the rubbing is done by a washing-machine, a table-s})Oon of turpen- 
tine added to a pint of soft soap, taking enough of the mixture to make a 
good suds for each lot of clotiies aids in removing- the dirt. Care must be 
taken not to handle the turpentine with the hands, or to breathe the fumes 
of it, as it is very injurious to some persons, and great care should be taken 
to rinse the clothes very thoroughly, or the clothing may retain enough of 
the turpentine to be injurious, when worn next the skin. 

To Wash Flannels in Tepid Water.— The usefulness of liquid annuonia 
is not as universally known among housewives as it deserves to be. If you 
add some of it to a soap-suds made of a mild soap, it will prevent the flaiinel 
from becoming yellow or shrinking. It is the potash and soda contained in 
sharp soap which tends to color animal fibers yellow ; the shrinking may 
also be partially due to this agency, but above all to the exposure of the 
flannel while wet to the extremes of low or high temperatures. Dipping it 
in boiling water or leaving it out in the rain will also cause it to shrink and 
become hard. To preserve their softness, fiannels should be washed in tepid 
suds, rinsed in tepid water, and dried rapidly at a moderate heat. 

To Wash Lace Ruchings. — Wash with the hands in warm suds (if much 
soiled, soak in warm water two or three hours), rinse thoroughly, and starch 
in thick starch, dry out doors if the day be clear; if not, place between dry 
cloth, roll tightly and put away till dry; then, with the fingers, open each 
row and pull out smoothly (have a cup of clean water in which to dip the 
fingers or dampen the lace) ; then pull out straight the outer edge of each 
with the thumb and finger, and draw the binding over the point or side of a 
hot iron. If the ruche is single, or only two rows, it can be ironed after 
being smoothed (the first process). Blonde or net, that has become yellow, 
can be bleached by hanging in the sun or laying out over night in the dew. 

To MAKE Fine Starch.— Wet the starch smooth in a little cold water, 
in a large tin pan, pour on a quart boiling water to two or three table-spoons 
starch, stirring rapidly all the while; place on stove, stir until it boils, and 
then occasionally. Boil from five to fifteen minutes, or until the starch is 
perfectly clear. Some add a little salt, or butter or pure lard, or stir with 
a sperm candle; others add a tea-spoon kerosene to one quart starch; this 
prevents the stickiness sometimes so annoying in ironing. Either of the 
above ingredients is an improvement to flour starch. Manv, just before 
using starch add a little bluing. Cold starch is made from starch dissolved 
in cold water, being careful not to have it too thick; since it rots the 
clothes, it is not advisable to use it— the same is true of potato starch. 

For Washing the Lighter Woolen Fabrics that enter into the compo- 
sition of summer dresses, borax is one of the most useful articles for soften- 
ing the water and cleansing the material. This is used in the proportion of 
a table-spoon to a gallon of water, and, if dissolved in hot water, it makes a 
better lather. Of course, no thoughtful person will attempt to wash a woolen 
dress without first having ripped it apart, picked out all the threads, brushed 
the dust out, and marked the particularly soiled places by running a thread 
around them. Wash one piece at a time, roll up and Squeeze, or pass through 
a wringer instead of twisting through the hands. Wash in several changes 
of borax water, and rinse in clear water, in which a well-beaten egg has been 
mixed; shake thoroughly, and fold in slieets until evenlv damp all through, 
then iron the wrong side with an iron hot enough to smooth nicely without 
scorching. 



THE LAUNDRY. 



449 



Wash Silk Handkerchiefs by laying them on a smooth board, and rub- 
bing with the pahn of the hand. Use either borax or white castile soap to 
make the suds ; rinse in clear water, shake till nearly dry, fold evenly^ 
lay between boards, and put a weight on them. No ironing is required. 
Silk hose and ribbons may be treated in the same way; if there are colors 
that run, put as much sugar of lead as will lie on a quarter dollar, into a 
half gallon of water, and soak the goods half an hour, stirring frequently, 
then wash as above, and rinse in several clear waters, using sugar of lead 
in the last. Or, wash in cold rain-water with a little curd soap ; then 
rinse them in rain-water— cold— slightly colored with stone blue ; wring 
well, and stretch them out on a mattress, tacking them out tightly. They 
will look as good as new if carefully washed. 

Washing Ligiit-Coloiied Prints and Cambrics. — Take a table-spoon of 
alum, and dissolve it in enough lukewarm water to rinse a i>rint dress. Dip 
the soiled dress into it, taking care to wet thoroughly every part of it, and then 
wring it out. Have warm, not hot, suds all ready, and wash out the dress 
quickly ; then rinse it in cold water. (AVhite ciistile soap is the best for 
colored cottons, if it can be commanded.) Have the starch ready, but not 
too hot ; rinse the dress in it, wring it out, and hang it wrong side out to dry, 
but not in the sun. Place it where the wind will strike it rather than the 
sun. When drv, iron directly. Prints should never be sprinkled; but, if 
allowed to beconie rough dry, they should be ironed under a damp cloth. _ It 
is better to w^ash tliem some" day by themselves, when washing and ironing 

can be done at once. c -l. -i- 

To Wash Fl.annels in Boiling Water.— :Make a strong suds ot boiling 
water and soft soap— hard soap makes flannels stiff and wiry— put them in, 
pressing them down under the water with a clothes-stick ; when cool enough 
rub the articles carefully between the hands, then wring— but not through 
the wringer— as drv as possible, shake, snap out, and })ull each piece into its 
original size and shape, then throw immediately into another tub of boiling 
water, in wliich vou have thoroughly mixed some nice blning. Shake them 
up and down in this last water with a clothes-stick until cool enough for the 
hands, then rinse well, wring, shake out and pull into shai)e— the snapping 
and pulling are as necessary as the washing— and hang in a sunny i>lace 
where they will dry quickly.' Many prefer to rinse in two waters with the 
bluing in the last, and this is always advisable when there are many flannels. 

Care of Irons.— When irons become rough or smoky, lay a little fine 
salt on a flat surface and rub them well ; it will prevc nt them sticking to 
any thing starched, and make them smooth ; or scour with bath-brick before 
heating, and when hot rub well with salt, and then with, a small piece of 
beesw^ax tied up in a rag, after which wipe clean on a dry cloth. A piece 
of fine sandpaper is also a good thing to have near the stove, or a hard, 
smooth board covered wdth brick dust, to rub each iron on when it is put 
back on the stove, so that no starch may remain to be burnt on. Put bees- 
wax between pieces of paper or cloth and keep on the tal)le close by the 
flat-iron stand. If the irons get coated with scorched starch, rub them over 
the paper that holds the beeswax and it will all come off. Rubbing the iron 
over the waxed paper, even if no starch adheres, adds to the glossiness ot the 

linen that is ironed. . , -, -i -xv, 

W\sHiNG Lace.— To make the starch properly, mix the dry particles with 
enough cold water to make a smooth paste, add cold water until it looks 
like milk and water, and boil it in a smoothly glazed earthen vessel until it 
is perfectly transparent. While it is cooling squeeze the laces through a 
soap-suds, and rinse them in elear water. If you wish them clear white, add 
a little bluing ; if ivorv white, omit the bluing, and if yellow-tmged add a 
few^ teaspoons clear coffee to the starch. Run through the starch, squeeze, 
roll up in towels, and clap each piece separately until dry: pull gently into 
shape, from time to time, with the fingers, and pin on the ironing table or 
bosom-board or upon the pillows in the "spare" bedroom. When dry^ 



450 



THE LAUNDRY. 



press between tissue paper with a hot iron, punch the openings with an 
ivory stiletto, and pick each pearl or loop on the edge with a coarse pin 
until it looks like new lace. 

Lawx and Muslin Dresses that have faded may bo wliitened in the boiling 
suds, and bleached on the grass, and, when done up, are quite as pretty as 
dresses made of new white material. Delicate hued muslin and camljrie 
dresses may be waslied nicely by the following process: Shave half a pound 
of common hard soap into a gallon of boiling water; let it melt, turn it into 
a tub of lukewarm water; stir a quart of wheat bran into a second tub of 
lukewarm water, and have ready a third tub with clear water; put the dress 
into the first tub of suds, rub gently, or rather "souse" it up and down, and 
s(pieeze it out, treat it the same in the tub of bran water; rinse, dry and dip 
in starch made the same as for shirts; dry again, and then rinse thoroughly 
in clear water; dry again, and sprinkle with a whisk-broom or sprinkler; 
roll up in a thick cloth while the iron gets hot, and iron with them as hot as 
they can be used without scorching the dress. By taking a clear day, it is 
little trouble to do several dresses in a few hours. 

To Remove Grease from Silk, Cotton, Linen or Worsted Goods. — 
Rub magnesia freely on both sides of silk or worsted goods and hang away. 
Benzine, ether or soap will take out spots from silk, but remember the goods 
must not be rubbed. Oil of turpentine or benzine will remove spots of 
paint, varnish or pitch from white or colored cotton or woolen goods. After 
using it, they should be washed in soap-suds. Spots from sperm candles, 
stearine, and the like, should be softened and removed by ninety-five per 
cent, alcohol, then sponged off with a weak alcohol, and a small quantity of 
ammonia added to it. Holding white cotton or linen over the fumes of 
burning sulphur, and wetting in warm chlorine water, will take out wune or 
fruit stains. The sooner the remedy is a})plied, after any of these spots or 
stains are discovered, the more effectual the restoration. "^From white linen 
or cotton by soap-suds or weak lye, and from calicoes with warm soap-suds. 
From woolens f)y soap-suds or ammonia. On silks use either yolk of egg 
with water, magnesia, ether, benzine, ammonia, or French cha'.k. 

To Press and Clean Silks. — All satin goods should be pressed upon the 
right side. To press and clean black silk, shake out all the dust, clean well 
with a flannel cloth, rubbing it up and down over the silk: this takes out 
iill dust that may be left ; take some good lager beer and sponge the silk, 
both on the wrong and right side, sponging across the width of the silk, 
.and not down the length, and with a nioderately-w^arm iron, press what is 
intended for the wrong side. After sponging, ^it is better to wait a few 
minutes before pressing, as the irons will not be so apt to stick. 

Or, sponge with hot coffee, thoroughly freed from sediment by being 
strained through muslin. The silk is sponged on the side intended to show, 
it is allowed to become partially dry, and then ironed on the wrong side. 
The coffee removes every particle of grease, and restores the brilliancy of 
•silk, without giving it either the shiny appearance or crackly or papery 
stiffness obtained by beer or any other liquid. The silk appears thickened 
by The piocess, and this good effect remains. 

To Make Hard Soap.— Place one gallon of good soft soap in a kettle to 
boil ; when it begins to boil, stir in a pint measure level full of common 
salt, stirring it all the time until the salt is dissolved, then set to cool. 
Next day, cut out the soap in squares, scrape off the soft, dark part, that 
adheres to the lower side of the cakes, pour out the lye, and wash the ket- 
tle; place the soap, cut in thin slices in the kettle, with more weak lye. 
If the lye is strong add rain-water, pint for pint; let it boil until the soap 
is dissolved. While boiling, again stir in a pint measure level full of salt, 
stirring it some as before, and set to cool. When perfectly hard, cut it in 
-cakes the size you wish, scraping off the soft lye part that adheres to the 
lower side, and lay on boards, top side down in the sun, turning it each 
«day until sutfiriinUly dry. Or, if j^ou wish to nuake a twelve or four- 



THE LAUNDRY. 



451 



teen gallon kettle of soft soap into hard, three quarts of salt, stirred in each 
time, will be sufficient. But as soap differs in strength, the quantity of salt 
must also differ. The stronger the soap the more salt is required. A good 
general rule is our old grandmother's: "When the soap is boiling, stir in 
salt until it curdles and becomes whitish in color." It can l)e tested by 
placing some in a shallow pan to cool, as it cools in a few minutes suffi- 
ciently to know if enough salt is in. 

To Bleach ^Iuslin. — For thirty yards of muslin, take one pound of chlo- 
ride of lime, dissolve in two quarts rain-water; let cloth soak over night in 
^varni rain-water, or long enough to be thoroughly wet; wring out cloth 
and put in another tub of warm rain-water in wbicli the chloride of lime 
solution has been poured. Let it remain for al)out twenty minutes, lifting 
np the cloth and airing every few minutes, and rinse in clear rain-water. 
This will not injure the cloth in the least, and is much less troublesome 
than bleaching on the grass. 

Or, scald in suds and lay them on the clean grass all night, or if this 
can not be done, bring in*^ and place in a tub of clean soft water. In the 
morning scald again and put out as before. It will take from one to two 
weeks to bleach white. ]\Iay be bleached in winter by placing on the snow. 
May is the l)cst month for bleaching. To whiten yellow linens or muslins, 
soak over-night, or longer, in buttermilk ; rinse thoroughly and wash the 
same as other clothes. This will also answer for light calicoes, percales, 
lawns, etc., that will not fade. Some use sour milk when not able to pro- 
cure buttermilk. To wdiiten yellow laces, old collars, etc., put in a glass 
bottle or jar in a strong suds"^ let stand in sun for seven days, shaking oc- 
casionallv. 

To Wash Lace Curtains.— Shake the dust well out of the lace, put in 
tepid water, in which a little soda has been dissolved, and wash at once care- 
fully with the hands in several waters, or until perfectly clean ; rinse in 
water well blued, also blue the boiled starch quite deeply and squeeze, but 
do not wring. Pin some sheets down to the carpet in a vacant, airy room, 
then pin on the curtains stretched to exactly the size they were before being 
wet. In a few hours they will be dry and ready to put u}). The whole pro- 
cess of washing and pinning dow^n should occupy as little time as possible, 
as lace will shrink more than any other cotton goods when long wet. Above 
all, it should not be allowed to "soak" from the mistiiken idea that it washes 
more easily, nor should it ever be ironed. Another way is to fasten them in 
a pair of frames, which every housekeeper should have, made very like the 
old-fashioned quilting-frame^s, thickly studded along the inside with the 
smallest size of galvanized tenter hooks, in wdiich to fasten the lace, and hay- 
ing holes and wooden pins with which to vary the length and breadth to suit 
the different sizes of curtains. The curtains should always be measured 
before being wet, and stretched in the frames to that size to prevent shrink- 
ing. Five or six curtains of the same size may be put in, one above the 
other, and all dried at once. The frames may rest on four chairs. 

How TO DO UP Shirt-Bosoms.— To fine starch add a piece of "Enamel" 
the size of a hazel-nut; if this is not at hand use a table-spoon gum-arabic 
solution (made by pouring boiling water upon gum-arabic and standing un- 
til clear and transparent), or a piece of clean mutton-tallow half the size of 
a nutmeg and a tea-spoon of salt will do, but is not as good. Strain the 
starch through a strainer or a piece of thin muslin. Have the shirt turned 
wrong side out; dip the bosoms carefully in the fine starch, made according 
to recipe, and squeeze out, repeating the operation until the bosoms are 
thoroughly and evenly saturated with starch; proceed to dry. Three hours 
before ironing dip the'bosoms in clean water; wring out and roll up tightly. 
First iron the back bv folding it lengthwise through the center; next iron the 
wristbands, and both sides of the sleeves ; then the collar-band ; now place 
the bosom-board under the bosom, and with a dampened napkin rub the 
bosom from the top towards the bottom, smoothing and arranging each plait 



452 



THE LAUNDRY. 



neatly. With smootl;i, moderately hot fiat-iron, begin at the top and iron 
downwards, and continue the operation until the bosom is perfectly dry and 
shining. Remove the bosom-board, and iron the front of the shirt. The 
bosoms and cutfs of shirts, indeed of all nice tine work, will look clearer 
and better if they are first ironed under a piece of thin old muslin. It takes 
off the first heat of the iron, and removes anv lumps of starch. 

Washing Fluid.— Tiie very best known, as it saves time, labor, clothes 
and soap: One pound sal-soda, one-half pound stone lime, five quarts .soft 
water, (some ad<l one-fifth pound borax) ; boil a short time in copper or 
brass kettle, stirring occasionally, let .settle and pour off the clear fluid into 
a stone jug, and cork for u.se ; soak white clothes over night in simple water, 
wring out and soaj) wristbands, collars, and dirty stained places ; have boiler 
half filled witli water, and when at scalding heat put in one common tea- 
cup of tluid, stir and put in clothes, and boil half an liour, rub lightly 
through one suds only, rinsing well in the bluing water as usual, and all 
is complete. Instead of .soaking clothes over night, they may soak in suds 
for a few hours b -fore beginning washing. For each additional boiler of 
clothes, add half a cup only of the fiuid, of course boiling in the same water 
through the whole washing. If more water is needed in the boiler for the 
last clothes, dip it from the sudsing tub. This fluid brightens instead of 
fading the colors in calico, and is good for colored flannels. It does not rot 
clothes, but they must not lie long in the water; the boiling, sudsing, rinsing and 
bluing must follow each other in rapid stwcssion, until clothes are hung on the 
line, which should be by ten o'clock in the morning. Some of this fluid, 
put in hot water, is excellent for removing grease spots from the floor, doors 
and windows; also for cleansing tin-ware, pots, and kettles.— i¥r5. Rose Sharp, 
Kingston, 0. 

To Wash Woolen Goods.— Dissolve a large table-spoon borax in a pint 
boih ng water. Mix one-quarter of it in the cold water in which greasy 
woolen goods are to be washed. Put in one piece at a time, using swap, if 
needed; and if necessary add more of the borax-water. Wash and rinse in 
cold water. Shake well and hang where the goods will drv quickly. 

Flannels can be washed in the same way. The important thing in wash- 
ing flannels is to have all waters of the same temperature. If you begin 
with cold, go through with cold ; if with hot, have all waters equally hot. They 
must not be allowed to freeze in drying. Some add a little salt to the last 
rinsing water. In washing flannels be careful that the soap used has no resin 
in it. When flannels art' nearly dry, take in, fold carefully, roll up in a 
damp cloth so that they will iron smoothly. 

In ironing heavy woolen goods, especially pants, vests, viv., it is well to 
let them get dried, then spread them out on an ironing-board (not on a 
table), wring a cloth out of clear water and lay over the article, then iron 
with a hot iron till dry; wet the cloth again and spread it just above the- 
part already ironed, but let it come a half inch or so on that which has been 
pressed, so that there will be no line to mark where the cloth was moved; 
continue this till the whole garment has been thoroughly pressed. Woolen 
garments tlius ironed will look like new; but in doing this care must be 
exercised that every .spot that looks at all "fulled" or shrunk should be 
stretched while being pressed under the wet cloth. Bring the outside to fit 
the linings, as when new, but if not quite a})le to do this, rip the lining and 
trim off to match. All the .seams. es])ecially on pants, must be first pressed 
on a ' press board," then fold the pants as they are found in the tailor's 
shop, and go ovor tiiem with the wet cloth and hot iron. 

To I)ry-stak('1i. Fold and Iron Shirts.— In doing up shirts, wrist- 
bands and collars should be starched first if the collars are sewed on. Dip 
them into the hot starch, and as soon as the hand can bear the heat (and 
dipping the hand in cold water often will expedite the work) rub the starch 
in very thoroughly, taking care that no motes or lumps of starch adhere to 
the linen. Then starch the shirt-bosom the same way, keeping the starch 



THE LAUNDRY. 



453 



hot all the time by setting the dish in a deep pan of water. Rub it into the 
linen very carefiilly, pass the finger under the plaits and raise tlieni up so that 
the starch siiall penetrate all through evenly. Some rub it into the plaits 
with a piece of clean linen, but we think the hand does the work more thor- 
oughly and evenly. Wlien perfectly starched, shake out the shirt evenly, 
fold both sides of the bosom together and bring the shoulders and side 
seams together evenly; that will lay the sleeves one over the other, and after 
pulling the wristbands into shape smoothly they can thus be folded together 
and the wristbands rolled tightly and, with the sleeves, be folded and laid 
even on the sides of the shirt. Then turn the sides with the sleeves over 
on the front, and beginning at the neck roll the whole tightly together, 
wrap in a towel and let it remain so several hours before ironing— all night 
if starched and folded in the evening— and in the summer put in a cool 
place where the sUirch will not sour, and in the winter keep warm enough 
to prevent freezing. To do up shirt-bosoms in the most i)erfect way, one 
must have a polishing iron "—a small iron rounded over andliighly pol- 
ished on the ends and sides. Spread the bosom on a hard and very smooth 
board, with only one thickness of cotton cloth sewed tight across it. Spread 
a wet cloth over and iron quickly with a hot iron, then remove the cloth 
and with a polishing iron as hot as it can be used without scorching, rub 
the bosom quick and hard up and down, not crosswise. Use only the 
rounded part of the front of the iron, that puts all the friction on a small 
part at one time, and gives the full benefit of all the gloss in starch or 
linen.— Beecher, in Christian Union. 

So\p FOR Family Use.— Much of the toilet and laundry soaps m the 
market are adulterated with injurious, and, to some persons, poisonous sub- 
tances, by which diseases of the skin are occasioned or greatly aggravated, 
and great suffering results, which is rarely traced to the real cause. The fat 
tried from animals which have died of disease, if not thoroughly saponified, 
is poisonous, and sometimes produces death. If in making soap the mass is 
heated to too high a degree, a him of soap forms around the particles of fat; 
if at this stage resin, sal-soda, silicate, and other adulterations are added, the 
fat is not saponified, but filmed, and if poisonous or diseased, it so remains, 
and is dangerous to use. A bar of such soap has an oily feeling, and is 
unht for use. If it feels sticky, it has too much resin in it. The slippery 
feeling which belongs to soap properly made can not be mistaken. Another 
test of pure soft or hard soap is its translucent or semi-transparent appear- 
ance. Soft soap that is cloudy is not thoroughly saponified, or else has been 
made of dirty or impure grease. It is not only safer but more economical 
to buy pure soap, as the adulterations increase the quantity without adding 
to the erasive i)()wer. Some of the brown soaps sold in the market are sev- 
enty-hve i)ercent. resin, and the buyer gets only twenty-fiv*- per cent of what 
he wants for his money. Fifteen per cent, of resin improves the quality, but 
any excess damages it, and is worse than useless. Almost any family may 
make excellent soft soap with very little expense by saving grease, and using 
lye from pure hard wood ashes or pure potash. Never use concentrated lye. 

To set the Jcich, bore several auger holes in the bottom of a barrel ; or 
use one without a bottom; prepare a board larger than the barrel, set barrel 
on it, and cut a groove aroun I just outside the barrel, making one groove 
from this to the edge of the !)oard to carry off the lye as it runs off, with a 
groove around it, running into one in the center of the board. Place two 
feet from the ground, and tip so that the lye may run easily from the board 
into the vessel below prepared to receive it. Put half-bricks or stones 
around the edge of inside of barrel, place on them one end of sticks one or 
two inches wide, inclining to the center; place straw to the depth of two 
inches, over it scatter two pounds slacked lime ; put in the ashes about a halt 
bushel' at a time. r)ack well by using a pounder, spade, or common ax; con- 
tinue to pack until barrel is full, leaving a funnel-shaj'ed hollow in the center 
lar"-e enough to hold several quarts of water. Use soft or rain-water, and 



454 



THE L Am' DRY. 



boiling hot. Let the first water disappear before adding more. If the ashes 
are packed very tiglitly, it may require two or three davs before tbe lye will 
begin to run, but it is much better as it will be stronger. If a large quantity 
of lye is needed, prepare a board long enough to hold two or more barrels, 
one back of th^ other, with a groove in the center the entire length of the 
board; on this place the barrels prepared as above. 

• Sun or Cold Soap is made by adding one pound of cleansed grease 
spoiled lard or butter, to each gallon of lye strong enough to float an egg! 
Set tbe vessel in tbe sun and stir thoroughly each dav until it is £jood soap* 
This gives it a golden color, and produces an excellent soap for wajshing. It 
may be used in washing even laces and line cambrics with perfect safety. 

To cleanse r/mi.sx'.— Place all grease of whatever kind, soup ])ones, "^ham- 
rinds, cracklings, or any refuse fat into a kettle, witb weak Ive enough to 
boil it until all the particles of fat are extracted ; let it co(j1, tben skim off 
the grease, which is now ready to make the " Sun Soap." I would add here 
that no fat should be put away for soap grease until fried thoroughly. 

Boikd Soap.— There is no romance or poetry in making boiled soap, only 
patient hard work; yet without this useful article, what an unpresentable 
people we should be. Place the grease, consisting of soup-bones and all 
kinds of fat that accumulate in a kitchen, in a kettle, filling it only half full ; 
if there is too much fat, it can be skimmed off after the soap is cold, for 
another kettle of soap. This is the only true test when enough fat is used, 
as the lye will consume all that is needed and no more. Make a fire under 
one side of ;t. The kettle should be in an out-house or out of doors. Let 
it heat very hot so as to fry, and stir it to ])revent burning; now put in the 
lye, a gallon at the time, watch closely until it boils, as it sometimes runs 
over at the beginning. Add lye until the kettle is full enough, but not too 
full, to boil well. Soap should boil from the side and not the middle, as 
this would be more likely to cause it to boil over. To test the soap, to one 
spoonful of soap add one of rain-water; if it stirs up very thick, the soap is 
good and will keep; if it becomes thinner, it is unfit for lise. 

This is the result of one of three causes: it is too weak, there is a deposit 
of dirt, or it is too strong. Continue to boil for a few hours, when it should 
flow from the stick with which it is stirred, like thick molasses ; but if after 
boiling It remains thin, let it stand over night, removim; the fire, then drain 
very carefully into another vessel, being particular to prevent any sediment 
from passing. Wash the kettle, return the soa]) and })ring to a boil, and if 
the cause was dirt, it will now be thick and good, (Kherwise it is too strong 
and needs rain-water added. This can safely be done by pouring in a small 
quantity at a time, until it becomes thick. These are the usual causes that 
arise to trouble soap-makers. If other difhculties appear, they must use 
good common sense to meet and overcome them. 

It might not be amiss to add to this, the most economical way of saving 
soap grease. Have a kettle standing in the vard in summer time (or if there 
IS not a yard, in cellar), and as you save a little grease put it in, but do not 
put m raw grease. If there are any pieces of fat left after using a ham or 
lumps of suet not used in cooking a steak, put them in a skillet and fry them 
brown, then put all into the kettle of lye; thus everv particle of fat will be 
saved, and no fear of insects, rats or mice getting into and destroying the 
grease. Keep the kettle covered during night or when raining, but un- 
covered m the sunshine, stirring occasionallv. In the fall, all that is neces- 
sary hi to make a tire under the kettle, and let it boil a short time, adding 
more lye or grease if needed. If there are too many bones in it, or any par- 
ticles that have not become consumed, skim them out and put them in'^a pot 
of weak, hot lye, stirring them with the skimmer to rinse off all the soap, then 
skim out and throw away, and the pot of lye which has become almost soap, 
may now be added to the kettle of good soap. A few beef bones left in the 
barrel will sink to the bottom, and are said bv .some good housewives to 
improve the soap. Soft soap should be kept in\a dry place in cellar, and is 
better if allowed to stand three months before using. 



THE CELLAR AND ICE-HOUSE. 



The cellar, when properly constructed and cared for, is the most nsefuT 
room in the house, and no dwelling is complete without one. It is economy 
of expense and ground space to build it underground, and this plan gives 
the best cellar whenever the site of the house permits thorough drainage. 
The base of the foundation-wall of the house should be laid a little below 
the floor-level of the cellar, and the first layer should be of broad flag-stones, 
so placed that the edges will project a few inches beyond the outer face of 
the wall. This effectually prevents rats from undermining the cement floor, 
which they often do when this precaution is neglected, digging away the dirt 
until the floor breaks and gives them access to a new depot of supplies. In 
burrowing downwards, they invariably keep close to the wall, and when they 
reach the projecting flagging, give it up and look for an easier job. To secure 
the cellar from freezing, the wall, above the level of the deepest frost, should 
be double or "hollow," the inner wall being of brick four inches thick, with 
an air-space of two inches between it and the outer wall, which should be of 
stone and twelve or fourteen inches thick. The brick wall should be stiff- 
ened by an occasional "binder" across to the stone. The hollow space may 
be filled with dry tan-bark or sawdust, or left simply filled with the confined 
air, "dead air" being the most perfect non-conductor of heat known. The 
windows, which should be opposite each other when possible, to secure a 
"draft" and more perfect ventilation, should be provided with double sash 
— one flush with the outer face of the wall, which may be removed in sum- 
mer, and the other flush with the inner face, hung on strong hinges, so that 
it may easily be swung open upward and hooked there. In winter, this 
arrangement lets in light, but with its space of confined air, keeps out the 
frost. A frame covered with wire netting should take the place of the outer 
sash in summer, to keep out every thing but the fresh air and light. The 
walls should be as smooth as possible on the inner side, and neatly jjlastered; 
also the ceiling overhead. The floor should be first paved with small stones, 
then a coat of w^ater-lime laid on, and over this a second coat, as level as a 
planed floor. There should also be double doors, one flush with each 
face of the wall ; and a wide out-door stairway, tlirough which vegetables, 
coal, etc., may be carried, is indispensable. The depth should be about eight 
feet. 

Such a cellar may always be clean, the air pure, and the temperature 
under complete control. It will consequently keep apples and pears two or 
three months longer than an olSiinary cellar, prolonging the fruit season to 
"strawberry-time." If it extends under the whole house — the best plan 
when the state of the purse permits it — it may be divided into apartments, 

(455) 



456 



THE CELLAR AND ICE-HOUSE. 



with brick walls between — one for vegetables, one for fruits, one for provis- 
ions, one for the laundry, and a fifth for coal and the furnace, if one is used. 
In one corner of the cellar, under the kitchen, may also be the cistern, the 
strong cellar wall serving for its outer wall. A pump from the kitchen 
would supply water there for domestic uses ; and a pipe with a stop-cock, 
leading through the wall into the cellar, would occasionally be a conven- 
ience and save labor. It is better, however, as a rule, to locate the cistern 
just outside the house, passing a pipe from it through the cellar wall below^ 
the deepest frost level, and thence to the kitchen. If built in the cellar, the 
cistern should be square, with heavy walls, plastered inside with three coats 
of water-lime. 

All the apartments of a cellar should be easily accessible from the outside 
door and from the kitchen stairway. In the vegetable apartment, the bins 
should be made of dressed lumber, and painted, and located in the center, 
with a walk around each, so that the contents may ea^>ily be examined and 
-assorted. The fruit shelves, made of slats two inches wide and placed one 
inch apart, should be put up with equal care and neatness, and with equal 
regard for convenience and easy access. Their place should be the most airy 
part of tho cellar ; the proper width is about two feet, and the distance apart 
about one foot, with the lowest shelf one foot from the floor. Pears will 
ripen nicely on the lower shelves under a cover of woolen blankets. The 
supports should, of course, be firm and strong. The bottom shelf should be 
of one board, on which to scatter fine fresh lime to the depth of an inch, 
changing it two or three times during the winter. A shelf, suspended firmly 
from the ceiling, and located where it will be easy of access from the kitchen, 
on which to place cakes, pies, meats, and any tiling that needs to be kept 
cool and safe from cats and mice, is an absolute necessity. Its height pre- 
vents the articles placed on it from becoming damp, and gathering mold, as 
they sometimes do when placed on the cellar floor. In planning shelves for 
cans, crocks, casks, etc., regard should be had to economy of space by making 
the distance between the shelves correspond to the articles to stand on them, 
and it is well to so place the lower shelf that the meat barrels, etc., may be 
placed under it. The temperature of a cellar should never be below freezing, 
and if it is raised alx)ve fifty by a fire, outside air should be admitted to 
lower it. The best time for ventilating the cellar is at noon, taking care in 
hot weather not to admit so much outside air as to render it warm. A sim- 
ple and excellent plan for ventilation, where the location of the kitchen 
chimney admits it, is to pass an ordinary stove-pipe through the floor upward 
beside or behind the pipe of the kitchen stove, and thence by an elbow into 
the chimney. The draft of the chimney will carry off all the impure air 
that arises in the cellar, and if too great a current is created, it may be brought 
under complete control by a valve at the floor. 

The cellar must be frequently examined and kept perfectly sweet and 
clean. There is no reason why it should not be as neat as the living rooms, 
and as free from cobwebs, decayed fruit and vegetables, and all other forms 
of filthiness. Whitewashing walls in winter will aid in giving it tidiness. 



THE ICE-HO USE. 



457 



If the cellar is constructed above ground, the entire walls should be double, 
with air space between, double windows and doors being even more necessary 
than wlien under-ground. Above all, the floor should be on a level with 
■that of the kitchen, to save the woman-killing stairs. If there are stairs, let 
tkeni be broad, tirm, and placed in the light if possible. Of course, every 
cellar should have thorough drainage. In laying a tile drain, if in the horse- 
shoe form, place the circular side down ; the narrower the channel, the swifter 
the current and more certain to carry off sediment. 

THE STORE-ROOM. 

A clean, tidy, well-arranged store-room is one sign of a good methodical 
ihousekeeper. When stores are put away at hap-hazard, and taken out at any 
time and in any quantity, disorder and extravagance i)revail. A store-room 
ought to be large, airy, cool, and dry. Such a room is not always to be had, 
but even if a closet has to be put up with, it may be kept clean. Shelves 
should be ranged around the walls, hooks fastened to the edges of the shelves. 
The driest and coolest part of the rooms should be kept for jams, jellies, and 
pickles. All the jars should be distinctly labeled at the front, so that they 
will not all need 1^) be taken down every time a particular jar is wanted. 
Biscuits or cakes should be kept in closely covered tin boxes ; lemons should 
fee hung in nets. Soap should be bought in large quantities, and cut up in 
convenient-sized pieces, so that it may be dry before it is used. Coffee, when 
roasted, should be kept in small quantities; if unroa<?ted, it will improve 
with keeping. Stores on no account should be left in the papers in which 
they were sent from the grocer's, but should be put into tin canisters or 
earthenware jars closely covered, and each jar, like tlie jam, should be labeled. 
Stores should be given out regularly, either daily or weekly. In order to 
check their consumption, the housekeeper will do well to keep in the store- 
room a memorandum book, with a pencil fastened to it, and in this book she 
should enter the date on which all stores were brought in or taken out. By 
means of these memoranda she can compare one week's outgo with another, 
and immediately discover any extravagance. A hammer, a few nails, a little 
gum, a ball of string, a few sheets of foolscap, and a pair of scissors, should 
always be kept in the store-room. 

THE ICE-HOUSE. 

Ice is one of the greatest of summer luxuries, and indeed is almost a neces- 
sity. It is so easily put up, even in the country, and so cheaply protected, 
that there is no reason why any one who is able to own or rent a house may 
not have it in liberal supply. A cheap ice-house may be made by parti- 
tioning off a space about twelve feet square in the wood-shed, or even in the 
barn. The roof must be tight over it. but there is no necessity for matched 
or fine lumber for the walls. They should, however, be coated with coal-tar 
inside, as the long-continued moisture puts them to a severe test and brings 
on decay. Ice should be taken fi'om still places in running streams, or from 
clear ponds. It may be cut with half an old cross-cut saw, but there are 
«aws and ice-plows made for the purpose i«) be had in almost every village, 

29 



458 



KEEPING FRUITS AND VEGETABLES. 



In cutting ice, as soon as it is of sufficient thickness and before much warm 
weather, select ^ still day, with the thermometer as near zero as may be. Ice 
handles much more comfortably and easily when it is so cold that it imme- 
diately freezes dry, thus preventing the wet clothes and mittens, which are 
the sole cause of any suffering in handling it ; and ice put up in sharp, cold 
weather, before it has been subjected to any thaw, will keep much better and 
be nmch more useful in the hot days of summer than if its packing had been 
delayed until late winter or early spring, and then the ioe put up half melted 
amd wet. The best simple contrivance for removing blocks of ice from the 
water is a plank with a cleat nailed across one end, which is to be slipped 
under the block, which slides against the cleat, and may then be easily drawn 
out with the plank, without lifting. Cut the ice in large blocks of equal 
size, pack as closely as possible in layers, leaving about a foot space between 
the outside and the wall, and filling all crevices between the blocks with 
pounded ice or sawdust. Under the first layer there should be placed saw- 
dust a foot thick, and arrangements should be made fur thorough drainage, as 
water in contact with the ice will melt it rax>idly. As the layers are put in 
place, pack sawdust closely between the mass of ice and the wall ; and when 
all is stored, cover with a foot, at least, of sawdust. In using ice, be careful 
to cover all crevices with sawdust, as the ice will melt rapidly if exposed to 
the air. The less ventilation and the more completely an ice-house is kept 
closed, the better the ice will keep. The cold air which surrounds the ice, if 
undisturbed by currents, has little effect on it; but if there are openings, cur- 
rents are formed and the warm air is brought in to replace the cold. This is 
especially the case if the openings are low, as the cold air, being the heavier, 
passes out below most readily. For this reason great care must be taken to 
fill in fresh saw-dust between the walls and the mass of ice, as it settles down 
by its own weight, and the melting of the ice. There is no advantage in 
having an ice-house wholly or parth' under ground, if it is constructed as di- 
rected above. Fine chaff, or straw cut fine, may be substituted for sawdust 
when the latter is difficult to obtain. Of course, the building may be con- 
structed separately, in which case the cost need not be more than twenty-five 
to fifty-dollars. 

Cranberries — will keep all winter in a keg of water. 
Celery — keeps well buried in dry sand. 
Onions — keep best when spread over the floor. 

To KEEP TcRNiPS. — When buried deep in tlic earth they will keep solid 
until March or April. 

To KEEP Lemons. — Cover with cold water, changing it every week. This 
makes them more juicy. 

Parsnips and salsify should be left in the ground all winter, unless the 
climate is very severe, when they may be buried in a deep pit in the garden, 
and not opened until March or April. 

To keep Parsley fresii and green. — Put it in a strong boiling hot 
pickle of salt and water, and keep for use. Hang up and dry in bunches, 
blossom downward, in a dry attic or store-room, for use in soups, stuffing, etc. 

Whitewash for Cellars. — An ounce of carbolic acid to a gallon of 
whitewash will keep from cellars the disagreeable odor which taints milk 
and meat. Or, add copperas to ordinary whitewash until it is yellow ; the 
copperas is a disinfectant, and drives away vermin. 



KEEPING FRUITS AND VEGETABLES. 



459 



To KEEP Cellar clean. — Remove all vegetables as soon as they begin 
to decay, and ventilate well so that the walls will not become foul. Use 
chloride of lime as a disinfectant freely, after taking care to make it as neat 
and clean as possible. 

All kinds of Herbs.— Gather on a dry day, just before or while in 
blossom, tie in bundles, blossom downward. When perfectly dry, wrap the 
medicinal ones in paper, and keep from air. Pick off" the leaves of those to 
be used in cooking, pound, sift them fine, and cork up tightly in bottles. 

Keeping Cabbages. — When the weather becomes frosty, cut them otf 
near the head, and carry them, with the leaves on, to a dry cellar, break off 
superfluous leaves, and pack into a light cask or box, stems upward, and when 
nearly full cover with loose leaves; secure the box with a lid against rats. 

Potatoes— should be kept in a cool, dark place. When old, and likely to 
sprout, put them in a basket and lower them into boiling water, for a minute 
or two, let them dry and put away in sacks. This destroys the germ, and 
the potatoes retain their flavor until late. 

The Temperature. — Vegetables keep best at as low a temperature as 
possible without freezing. Apples bear a very low temperature. Sweet po- 
tatoes (which keep well packed in dry forest leaves) require a dry, warm 
atmosphere. Scjuashes should be kept in a dry place, as cool as possible 
without freezing. 

^ Keeping Pease for winter use.— Shell, throw into boiling water with a 
little salt, boil five or six minutes, drain in a colander and afterwards on a 
cloth, until completely dried, and place in air-tight bottles. Some use wide- 
mouthed bottles, not quite filling them, pouring over fried mutton fat so as 
to cover the pease, and cork tightly, securing the cork with resin or sealing- 
wax. When used, boil until tender, and season with butter. 

To KEEP Apples. — Apples are usually kept on open shelves, easily ac- 
cessible, so that the decaying ones may easily be removed. They are some- 
times i^acked in layers of dry sand, care being taken not to let them touch 
each other, with good results. When they begin to decay, pick out tliose 
which are speckled, stew them up with cider and sugar, and fill all emptj'' 
self-sealing fruit-cans, and keep the sauce for use late in the season. Or pack 
In dry saw-dust, or any grain, as oats, barley, etc., so that they will not touch 
each other; or if fruit is fine, wrap each apple in paper and pack in boxes. 

To keep Grapes. — A barrel hoop suspended from the ceiling by three 
cords, from which grape stems are hung by means of wire hooks attached to 
the small end, sealing the other with hot sealing-wax, each stem free from 
contact with its neighbors, is said to be the best contrivance tor keeping 
grapes. The imperfect grapes must be removed, and the room must be free 
from frost, and not dry enough to wither them or too moist. The simplest 
way to keep grapes is to place them in drawers holding about twenty-five 
pounds each, piling the boxes one over another. 

Packing Vegetables. — For present use they should be laid awaj^ care- 
fully in a bin with a close lid (hung on hinges) so that the light may be ex- 
cluded. To keep them for a longer time, the best plan is to pull them on a 
dry day, cut off* the tops and trim, and pack them in clean barrels or boxes, 
in layers with fine clean moss, such as is found in abundance in woods, be- 
tween them. The moss keeps them clean and sufficiently moist, preventing 
shriveling of the roots on the one hand, and absorbing anj^ excess of damp- 
ness on the other. 

Keeping Cabbages in the Country. — Take up the cabbages by the roots, 
set closely together in rows, up to the head in soil, roots down as they 
grew ; drive in posts at the corners of the bed, and at intermediate points if 
necessary, higher on one side than the other; nail strips of boards on the 
posts and lay upon these old boards, doors, or if nothing else is at hand, bean- 
poles, and corn fodder, high enough so that the roof will be clear of the 
cabbages, and allow the air to circulate ; close up the sides with yard or gar- 
den offal of any kind, and the cabbages will keep fresh and green all winter, 
ftnd be accessible at all times. Exclude moisture but never mind the frost. 



SOMETHING- ABOUT BABIES. 



A child's first right is to be well born, of parents sound in body and mind, 
who can boast a long line of ancestors on both sides ; an aristocracy, based 
on the cardinal virtues of purity, chastity, sobriety, and honesty. 

If the thought, the money, the religious enthusiasm, now expended for 
the regeneration of tlie race, were wisely directed to the generation of our 
descendants, to the conditions and environments of parents and children, the 
whole face of society might be changed before we celebrate the next Cen- 
^tennial of our national life. 

-All religious, educational, benevolent, and industrial societies combined, 
working harmoniously together, can not do as much in a life-time of effort, 
toward the elevation of mankind, as can parents in the nine months of pre- 
natal life. Locke took the ground that the mind of every child born into 
the world is like a piece of blank paper, that you may write thereon what- 
ever you will ; but science proves that such idealists as Descartes were nearer 
right when they declared that each soul comes freighted with its own ideas, 
its individual proclivities ; that the pre-natal influences do more in the form- 
ation of character than all the education that come after. 

Let the young man, indulging in all manner of excesses, remember that 
in considering the effect of dissipation, wine, and tobacco, on himself and his 
own happiness or misery, he does not begin to measure the evil of his life. 
As the High Priest at the family altar, his deeds of darkness will entail 
untold suffering on generation after generation. Let the young woman with 
wasp-like waist, who lives on candies, salads, hot bread, pastry, and pickles, 
whose listless brain and idle hands seek no profitable occupation, whose life 
is given to folly, remember that to her ignorance and folly may yet be traced 
the downfall of a nation. 

One of the most difficult lessons to impress on any mind is the power and 
•xteut of individual influence; and parents above all others, resist the belief 
that their children are exactly what they make them ; no more, no less; like 
producing like. If there is a class of educators who need special prepara- 
tion for their high and holy calling, it is those who assume the responsibility 
of parents. Shall we give less thought to the creation of an immortal being 
than the artist devotes to his statue or landscape"? We wander through the 
art galleries in the old world, and linger before the works of the great mas- 
ters, transfixed with the grace and beauty, the glory and grandeur, of the 
ideals that surround us ; and, with equal preparatiofi, greater than these are 
possible in living, breathing humanity. The same thought and devotion in 
real life would soon i^ive u.s a generation of saints, scholars, scientists, and 
(460j 



SOMETHING ABOUT BABIES 



461 



statesmen, of glorified humanity; such as the world has not yet seen. To 
this hour, we have left the greatest event of life to chance, and the result is 
the ))lind, the deaf and dumb, the idiot, the lunatic, the epileptic, the crim- 
inal, the drunkard, the glutton — thousands of human beings, in our young 
republic, that never should have been born ; a tax on society, a disgrace to 
their parents, and a curse to themselves. 

Well, born — a child's next right is to intelligent care. If we buy a rare 
plant, we ask the florist innumerable questions as to its proper training; but 
the advent of an immortal being seems to suggest no new thought, no 
anxious investigation into the science of human life. Here we trust every 
thing to an ignorant nurse, or a neighbor who knows perchance less than we 
do ourselves. 

Ignorance bandages the new-born child, as tight as a drum, from arm- 
pits to hips, compressing every vital organ. There is a tradition that all 
infants are subject to colic for the first three months of their existence ; at 
the end of which time the bandage is removed, and the colic ceases. Reason 
suggests that the bandage may be the cause of the colic, and queries as to 
the origin of the custom, and its use. She is told, with all seriousness, that 
the bones of a new-born child are like cartilage, that, unless they are pinned 
up snugly, they are in danger of falling to pieces." Reason replies : " If In- 
finite Wisdom has made kittens and puppies so that their component parts 
remain together, it is marvelous that He should have left the human being 
wholly at the mercy of a bandage; " and proposes, with her first-born, to dis- 
pense with swaddling bandages, leaving only a slight compress on the nav-el, 
for a few days, until ])erfectly healed. 

Ignorance, believing that every child comes into the world in a diseased 
and starving condition, begins at once the preparation of a variety of nos- 
trums, chemical and culinary, which she persistently administers to the 
struggling victim. Reason, knowing that after the fatigue of a long and 
perilous march, what the young soldier most needs is absolute rest in some 
warm and cozy tent, shelters him under her wing, and fights off all intruders, 
sure that when he needs his rations the world will hear from him. His first 
bath should be preceded by a generous application of pure, sweet olive-oil, 
from head to foot, in every little corner and crevice of his outer man ; and 
then he should be immersed in warm soap-suds, so nearly the temperature 
of the bodv as to cause no shock. Great care should be taken that neither 
oil nor soap touch the eyes. The room should be very warm, all drafts ex- 
cluded; and on emerging from the tub, a hot soft-flannel blanket should be 
closely wrapped around him, in which he may rest awhile before dressing. 
The softest garments, simply made, and so cut as to fasten round the throat 
and rest on the shoulders, should constitute his wardrobe ; eschew all bands, 
pins, ligatures, ruffles, embroidery, caps, socks, etc. 

Let the child's first efforts at foraging for an existence be at his mother's 
breast; there he will find the medicine he needs, and just what she needs, 
too, to dispose of. 

Tlie chiUrs mouth and the motlier's nipples should be carefully washed 



462 



SOMETHING ABO UT BABIES. 



before nursing; thus, much suffering, for both mother and child, will be 
prevented. 

"Give the baby water six times a day," was one of the most important 
messages ever sent over the telegraph wires to a young mother. 

Ignorance bathes her baby on a full stomach, because she finds it will go 
through the ordeal of dressing more quietly ; Reason bathes hers two hours 
after feeding, knowing that the vital forces needed for digestion should not 
be drawn to the surface. Being constructed on the same general plan with 
its parents, the same principle that makes it dangerous for a man to go 
swimming immediately after eating, makes it equally so to put a baby in its 
tub after nursing. 

Though Ignorance eats her own meals regularlj' and at stated times, she 
feeds her baby at all times and seasons. If the child has colic from over- 
eating, or the improper diet of its mother, she trys to ally its suffering with 
additional feeding and vigorous trotting; not succeeding, she ends the drama 
with a spoonful of Mrs. Winslow's soothing syrup ; having drugged the senti- 
nel and silenced his guns, she imagines the citadel safe. Reason feeds her 
baby regularly, by the clock, once in two or three hours, and gives the 
stomach some chance for rest. She prevents colic by regulating her own 
diet and habits of life, knowing that improper articles of food, and ill-nature 
or outbursts of passion in the mother, have cost many a baby its life. 

Ignorance, having noticed that her baby sleeps longer with its head cov- 
ered, uniformly excludes the air. Breathing the same air over a dozen 
times, it becomes stupefied with the carbonic-acid gas, is throw^n into a pro- 
fuse perspiration, and is sure to catch cold on emerging from the fetid atmos- 
phere. Reason puts her child to sleep, with head uncovered, in a spacious 
chamber, bright with sunlight and fresh air; where, after a long nap, she 
will often find him (as soon as he is old enough to notice objects) looking at 
the shadows on the wall, or studying the anatomical wonders of his own 
hands and feet, the very picture of content. 

Regular feeding, freedom in dress, plenty of sleep, water, sunlight, and 
pure air, will secure to babies that health and happiness that in nature 
should be their inheritance. 

"See ing that the atmosphere is forty miles deep, all round the globe," 
says Horace Mann, "it is a useless piece of economy to breathe it more than 
once. If we were obliged to trundle it in the wheel-barrows, in order to fill 
our homes, churches, school-houses, railroad-cars, and steamboats, there 
might be some excuse for our seeming parsimony. But as it is we are prodi- 
gals of health, of which we have so little; and niggards of air, of which w* 
liave so much." — Mrs. Elizabeth Cady Stanton^ New Y(/rk. 



Great care should be given that children are not fed with milk that has 
been turned by a thunder-storm. The chemical change is rapid, and extra 
caution is necessary. 

Ginger-bread made from oatmeal instead of flour is a good aperient lor 
children. 



SOMETHING ABOUT BABIES. 



463 



Parents should teach their children to gargle their throats, for it may 
be the saving of their lives. It is easier to teach them this difficult and 
-awkward feat in health than when prostrated by disease. 

To PREVENT A CHILD COUGHING AT NIGHT, boil the Strength out of ten cents 
worth of "seneca snake-root" in one quart of soft water; strain through a 
cloth, boil down to a pint, add one cup powdered sugar made into a thick 
molasses. Give one tea-spoonful on going to bed. 

Children are often troubled with ulcers in the ears after scarlet fever 
and other children's diseases. Roast onions in ashes until done, wrap in a 
strong cloth, and squeeze out juice. To three parts juice, add one part 
laudanum and one part sweet-oil, and bottle for use. Wash ear out with 
warm water, shake bottle well, and drop a few drops into the ear. 

For sore mouth in nursing babies, take a tea-spoon each of pulverized 
alum and borax, half a salt-spoon of pulverized nut-galls, a table-spoon of 
honey; mix, and pour on it half a tea-cup boiling water; let settle, and 
with a clean linen rag wash the mouth four or five times a day, using a 
fresh piece of linen every day ; or simple borax water is equally good. Half 
an even tea-spoon powdered borax in two table-spoons soft water is strong 

enough. j • i 

A lump of sugar, saturated with vinegar, will stop hiccough when drink- 
ing water will not. For babies, a few grains of sugar will often suffice. 
Care must be taken in giving sugar to nursing babies, as it is constipating. 
Dio Lewis says feather pillows are death to children. Make them of straw 
or hair, and not too large. 

To cure the earache, take a bit of cotton batting, put upon it a pinch 
of black pepper, gather it up and tie it, dip it in sweet-oil, and insert it 
into the ear. Put a flannel bandage over the head to keep it warm. 

Probably nine children out of ten who die of croup might be saved by 
the timely application of roast onions, mashed, laid upon a folded napkin, 
and goose-oil, sweet-oil, or even lard, poured on and applied as warm as 
can be borne comfortably to the throat and upper part of the chest, and 
to the feet and hands, or the onions may be sliced, boiled soft m water 
until almost drv, grease added, and cooked in the grease until browned. 

Let nature wake the children ; she will not do it prematurely. Take 
care that they go to bed at an early hour— let it be earlier and earlier, until 
it is found that they wake up themselves in full time to dress for breakfast. 

Just before each meal let a child have some ripe fruit or some fruit 
sauce Apples and berries are wholesome. Oranges should never be given 
to children unless the skin and the thick white part underneath the skm 
and between the quarters is all carefully removed. , . , , . 

While the baby is down for a creep, draw little stocking legs over his 
arms, and secure them by a safety-pin. v -, 

See that a child's food is well cooked. Never give a child new bread. 
Always insist that a child thoroughlv masticate his food. Avoid too nour- 
ishing a diet for a child of a violent, fretful temper. Give a nourishing 
diet to a pale, white-looking, delicate child. Both under-feeding and over- 
feeking are apt to produce scrofula or consumption. Carefully study a 
child's constitution, digestive powers, teeth, strength, and eTideavor to pro- 
portion to these the kind and the quantity of its food. Sweetmeats and 
confectionery should onlv be given to children very sparingly, if at al . 
Never pamper or reward 'a child with them. A child should never be al- 
lowed to go to sleep with damp, cold feet. Neglect of this has often re- 
sulted in dangerous attacks of croup, diphtheria, or a fatal sore throat. 
Always on entering the house in rainy, muddy, or thawy weather, tne 
child should remove its shoes, and the mother should herself ascertain 
vhether the stockings are the least damp. If they are they should be taken 
off, the feet held before the fire, and rubbed with the hands until perfectly 
dry, and dry stockings and shoes put on. ^ 

Dr. Osgood recommends as a night suit for children a single garnaent. 



464 



SOMETHING ABO UT BABIES, 



ending in drawers and stockings. ,Over this, in cold weather, may be worn 
a flannel sack. At severe seasons, instead of putting an extra coverlet on 
the bed, he advises the use of a large bag, made of a light blanket in- 
to which the child may be securely placed, and closely buttoned around 
the neck. laght coverings generally are preferable to heavy ones, if the 
night-clothmg and the room are sufficiently warm, as they do not induce 
perspiration nor check exhalations. 

^ Eating snow, except in very limited quantities, is very injurious, produc- 
ing catarrh, congestion and many other troubles. 

Jumpinpt the rope is an injurious and dangerous amusement, often re- 
sulting in disease of the spine and brain. 

For worms, give rue tea; for colic, catnip tea. 

Never let the little children go out of doors in winter without being 
warmly cl?d. They lose heat rapidly, and easily contract throat and lung 
aifections. Every child should have full suits of underclothing; and espe- 
cially let the legs and ankles be well protected with thick stockings and 
leggings. 

Bathe children in the forenoon when possible, or, if not too tired, an 
hour before the evening meal ; never for at least an hour after eating. When 
possible bathe before an open fire or in a warm room near, and rub dry 
before an open fire. It is injurious to bathe children on rising before break- 
fast, especially in cold weather. Washing the face, neck, and hands, and 
dressing, is enough before refreshing the body by eating. 

Great care must be taken that the navel of infants takes its proper place. 
If not attended to it is likely to puff out and produce a breach. If it shows 
any signs of protruding, round a piece of cork into a ball as large as a 
large marble, cover with linen, and lay over the navel, fastening it to its 
place by six or eight strips of adhesive plaster. Let it remain for a month 
or six weeks, as it will cause no inconvenience. 

If a scurf or milk-crust appears on the head, do not apply water but 
brush often gently with a soft baby's brush. ' 

For constipation, bran water is an excellent remedy. Boil two table- 
spoons bran in a pint of water for two hours, strain and use as food. It 
must be made fresh every day, and the fresher the better. 

No CHILD should GO TO BED HUNGRY, but food taken near the hours of 
sleeping should be of the simplest nature,— a cracker, a bit of bread, or a 
glass of milk. 

A BABY should SLEEP ON ITS SIDE. When lying on its back the food 
sometimes rises in its throat and chokes it. 

Great care should be taken to shade a baby's eyes from the light. If 
a strong light shines directly in its face, it often produces ophthalmia, an 
inflammation of the eyelids, which is troublesome and dangerous. A few 
drops of breast-milk, applied to the eye and worked under the lid, is very 
healing to sore lids. 

Some babies' skins will not bear flannel. In this case a linen shirt 
should be put on first, and flannel over it. 

When chafed, squeeze cold water over the parts chafed. Dry lightly 
without rubbing, and apply vaseline or cold cream. 

In cleansing the ear, penetrate no deeper than you can clearly see. 
Never scratch or inflame the entrance to the ear. The ear-wax is not dirt 
and should not be removed, at least only that portion which is plainly visi- 
ble should be disturbed. Pins and scrapers inserted in the ear are injurious. 
The wax will find its way out when too much is accumulated. Scraping 
produces irritation, discomfort, and calls for a repetition, which, after a 
time, produces diseiise. Sweet-oil, glycerine, etc., are apt to clog the ear 
and produce inflammation. Syringing the ear with tepid water relieves 
itching. If cold air gives pain a little wool, placed in the ear while out of ^ 
doors, will protect. 

XJpoN the very first symptoms of cold, such as snuffling or any slight 



SOMETHING ABOUT BABIES, 



46^ 



hoarseness, give immediately a warm foot bath, and then grease with mut- 
ton tallow the nose, neck, chest, and feet; warm the feet well at the fire. 
Sweet-oil, pig's-foot oil, or any kind of good grease will answer as well as 
mutton tallow. After warming well put them to bed and wrap up well. 

Milk for the use of children should cool until the animal heat is gone 
before using. 



The following rules for the managemeut of infants during the hot season are from Dr. 
Wilson 's " Summer and Its Diseases " : 

Rule 1.— Bathe the child once a day in tepid water. If feeble, sponge all over twice a day 
with tepid water, or tepid water and vinegar. 

Rule 2. — Avoid all tight bandaging. Make clothing light and cool, and so loose that the 
limbs may have free play. At night undress, sponge, and put on a slip. In the morning 
remove slip, bathe, and dress in clean clothes if it can be afforded ; if not, thoroughly air 
clothing by hanging it up during the night. Use clean diapers, and change often. 

Rule 3.— Let the child sleep by itself in a cot or cradle. Put to bed at regular hours, and 
teach to go to sleep without being nursed in the arms. Give no cordial, soothing syrup, or 
sleeping drops, without the advice of a physician. They kill thousands of children every year. 
If the child frets it is hungry or ill. Never quiet a child by candy or cake. They are com- 
mon causes of diarrhea and other troubles. 

Rule A— Give the child plenty of fresh air. Give it plenty of pure cold water. Keep it 
out of rooms where cooking or washing is going on. Excessive heat kills children. 

Rule 5.— Keep the house sweet and clean, cool, and well aired. In hot weather leave 
windows open day and night. Cook in the yard, in a shed, or in the garret. Whitewash 
walls every spring, and keep cellar clear of rubbish. Let no slops collect. Disintect privies 
and sinks by a solution of copperas, and get your neighbors to clean up. 

iiti^efi.— It the supply of breast-milk is ample, and the child thrives, gives no other food in 
hot weather. If the supply is short give goat's or cow's milk in addition. Nurse once in 
two or three hours by day* and as seldom as possible at night. Remove child from breast 
as soon as it falls asleep, and never give the breast when overheated or fatigued. 

A'uie 7.— Jf brought up by hand, give goat's milk, or cow's milk, and use no other food 
while hot weather lasts. For an intant that has not cut its front teeth, rw substitute for milk 
is safe. Creeping children must not be allowed to pick up unwholesome food. 

Rule a —If milk, is pure add one-third hot water to it until child is three months old ; af- 
terwards gradually lessen the water. Sweeten each pint with a heaping dessert-spoonful 
of sugar of milk, or a tea-spoonful crashed sugar. When vei-y hot weather give milk cold. 
It must be unskimmed and as fresh as possible, and brought very early in the morning. Scald 
pans to be used with boiling suds. In very hot weather boil milk as soon as it conies, and 
remove to the coolest place in the house upon ice or down in a well. In a warm room it 
soon spoils 

Rule 9.— If the milk disagrees add a table-spoon of lime-water to each bottleful. If pure 
milk can not be had, try condensed milk, sold at all grocers. Prepare by adding to six 
table-spoons boiling water, without sugar, one table-spoon or more of the milk, accord- 
ing to age of the child. If this disagrees, a tea-spoon of arrow-root, of sago, or of corn- 
starch, may be added to a pint of milk, as prepared under Rule 8, and cautiously tried. If 
milk can not be digested try, for a few days, pure cream, diluted with three-tourths to 
four-fifths water, returning to milk as soon as possible. 

Rule 10.— The nursing-bottle must be kept perfectly clean, otherwise the milk will turn sour, 
and the child will be made ill. Empty after each meal, rinse first in cold water, take apart^ 
and place nipple and bottle in clean water, to which a little soda has been added. It is bet- 
ter to have two bottles, and use them by turns. The plain bottle with rubber nipples is 
better than the tube, which is diflacult to keep clean. 

Rule 11.— Do not wean a child just before or duri ng hot weather ; nor, as a rule, until after 
its second summer. If suckling disagrees with the mother she must not wean the child, 
but feed it in part from the nursing bottle as directed. However small the supply ot breast- 
milk, the mother should keep it up against sickness. It will often save tht life of a child 
xoiien every thing else fails. When over six months old the mother may save her strength 
by giving it one or two meals a day of stale bread and milk, which should be pressed 
through a sieve, and put into a nursing bottle. When from eight months to a year old, it 
may have also one meal a day of the yolk of a fresh, rare boiled egg, or one of beef or mut- 
ten-broth, into which stale bread has been crumbled. W^hen older it can have a little meat, 
fi-nely minced ; but even then milk should be its principal food, and not what grown people 

usually eat. , . ^ i * ^. 

Rule 12.— If a child is suddenly taken with vomiting, and purging, and prostration, send 
for the doctor at once. Meantime, put the child for a few minutes in a hot bath, then 
carefully wipe dry with a warm towel, and wrap in warm blankets. 11 hands and teet are 
coid, apply bottles filled with hot water and wrapped in fiannel. Place a mush poultice or 
flaxseed poultice to which one quarter part of mustard flour has been added, or flannels 
wrung out of hot vinegar and water, over the belly. Give every fifteen minutes, five drop* 
brandy in a teaspoonful of water; if vomiting continue-s, give the brandy in the same 
ouantity of milk and lime-water. If the diarrhoea has just begun, or if caused by improper 
food, give a teaspoonful of castor-oil. or of spiced syrup of rhubarb. If the child has been 




freely 
physician 



HINTS FOR THE WELL. 



Cleanliness is next to godlines 
Always rest before and after a hearty meal. 
Do not eat too much. Do not eat late at night. 
Food, especially bread, should never be eaten hot. 
Children should never be dressed in tight clothes. 
Never sit in a damp or chilly room without a fire. 

Supper just before going to bed is highly injurious. If hungry, a bit of 
bread or cracker will check the craving without spoiling sleep. 

Never enter a room where a person is sick with an infectious disease with 
an empty stomach. 

When really sick, send for a good physician : and as you value your health 
and life, have nothing to do with quacks or patent medicines. 

The condiments, pepper, ginger, etc., are less injurious in summer. Fat 
beef, bacon, and hearty food may be eaten more freely in winter. 

Let the amount of the meal bear some relation to future needs as well 
as present appetite; but it is better to carrj^ an extra pound in your pocket 
than in your stomach. 

A small quantity of plain, nourishing soup is a wholesome first course at 
dinner. Rich soups are injurious to persons of weak digestion, and a large 
quantity of liquid food is not beneficial to adults. 

Three full meals daily are customary, but the number, the relative quantity 
and quality, and the intervals between them, are largely matters of opinion, 
habit and convenience; regularity is the important thing. 

Exercise before breakfast should be very light ; and it is better to take a 
oracker or some trifle before going out, especially in a miasmatic climate. 
Early breakfasts are a necessity to the young and growing. 

Remember that when the stomach is sour after eating, the food is actually 
rotting — that is a nauseating word but it expresses the absolute fact in the 
■case — and it means that some of the rules above given have been violated. 

Eat in pure air and in pleasant company ; light conversation and gentle 
-exercise promote digestion, but hard work of any kind retards it. Avoid se- 
vere bodily or mental labor just before and for two hours after a full meal. 

Most people drink too much and too fast. A small quantity of water 
sipped slowly satisfies thirst as well as a pailful swallowed at a draught. 

Drinks at meals should be taken at the close, and not too strong or hot. 
Dyspeptics especially should drink sparingly. Children need more tham 
adults, but too much is injurious. 

Adults need to eat at regular intervals two or three times a day, allowing 



HINTS FOR THE WELL. 



467 



time for each meal to be fully digested before another is taken. It would 
spoil a loaf of bread, half baked, to poke a lump of cold dough into the 
middle of it. 

Use good palatable food, not highly seasoned ; vary in quantity and quality 
according to age, climate, weather and occupation. Unbolted or partially 
bolted grains are good and sufficient food for men; but nature craves variety. 
As a rule, the flesh of meat-eating animals is not wholesome food. Hot 
soft bread digests slowly. 

Don't eat too fast; the digestive organs are something like a stove, whi^^h 
if choked up and out of order, burns slowly, and if you keep piling in fuel, 
grows more and more choked. The wiser course is to let it burn down and 
put in fuel only when needed. It is a foolish notion that food always keeps 
up the strength. Only what w^e digest helps us; all beyond that is a tax 
upon the system, and exhausts the strength instead of increasing it. 

Masticate well ; five minutes more at dinner may give you better use of an 
hour afterward. At meals never drink a full glass of very hot or very cold 
liquid. Never wash down a mouthful. Avoid waste of saliva. 

Avoid tobacco, alcohol in all forms, and all stimulants. Every healthy 
man is better, stronger, has a clearer head, more endurance, and better 
chances for a long life, if free from the habitual use of stimulants. The 
boy who begins the use of tobacco or liquors early is physically ruined. 

Avoid colds and break up as soon as possible when taken. As soon as 
conscious that the pores are closed, keep warm within doors, drink warm 
ginger tea, relax the bowels, and take a vapor bath. Breaking a cold up 
early, often saves a severe attack of congestion, pneumonia, often even a 
fever. 

Panaceas are privm facie humhngs ; their makers and takers, their vendors 
and recommenders are knaves or fools, or both. Nature cures most diseases, 
if let alone or aided by diet and proper care. There are no miracles in 
medicine ; remember that to keep or to get health generally requires only a 
recognition of Nature's powers, with knowledge of anatomy and physiology, 
experience, and common sense. 

Never sleep in clothing worn during the day, and let that worn at night 
be exposed to the air by day. Three pints of moisture, filled with the w^aste 
of the body, are given off every twenty-four hours, and mostly absorbed by 
clothing. Exposure to air and sunlight purifies the clothing and bedding of 
the poisons which nature is trying to get rid of, and which would otherwise 
be brought again into contact with the body. 

The lungs should be trained to free, full, and vigorous action. "The 
breath is the life.'* A man will exist for days without food, but w^hen the 
breath is cuf off life ceases. If breathing is imperfect, all the functions of 
the body work at a disadvantage. It is a common fault to breathe from 
the surface of the lungs only, not bringing into play the abdominal muscles, 
and so not filling the more remote air-cells of the lungs. By this defective 
action the system is deprived of a part of its supply of air, and by inaction 
the air-cells become diseased. 



468 



HINTS FOR THE WELL. 



Evacuate the bowels daily, and, above all, regularly ; the best time is after 
breakfast; partly to be rid of a physical burden during the day, but chiefly 
to relieve the bowels. Constipation is safer than diarrhoea. For the former, 
exercise, ride horseback, knead the belly, take a glass of cool water before 
breakfast, eat fruit and laxative food ; for the latter, follow an opposite 
course— toast, crust, crackers and rice are the best food. Pain and uneasi- 
ness of digestive organs are signs of disturbance; keep a clear conscience; 
rest, sleep, eat properly ; avoid strong medicines in ordinary cases. 

Keep the person scrupulously clean ; change the clothing worn next to the 
skin (which should be tiannel) often. Don't economize in washing bills. A 
cold bath every morning for very vigorous persons, or once or twice a week 
and thorough rubbing with a coarse towel or flesh-brush mornings when 
bath is not taken, for the less robust, is necessary to keep the functions of 
the skin in health, and is very invigorating. After warm baths a dash of 
cold water will prevent chill and "taking cold." In bathing in winter, the 
shock from cold water is lessened by standing a minute in the cold air after 
the removal of clothing before applying water. 

A very prolific source of disease is defective drainage. In the country, 
slops and waste water are thrown into the back yard to trickle back into 
the well and pollute it, or to form a reeking cesspool which poisons the air. 
In cities, the sewer-connections with houses allow the foul gases to rush 
back through the waste-pipes to closets or sinks and into the house. Neat- 
ness will cure the first, and a flue connecting each system of drainage-pipes 
with the tallest chimney in the house where a fire is constantly used, will 
draw off and consume the gases in the second. 

It should be remembered that the use of chloride of lime, and other fu- 
migants, does not destroy filthiness, but only renders it less evident. Clean- 
liness, fresh air, and sunlight will purify. Cleanliness is a very strong word. 
Carpets filled with dust or grease, dirty furniture, or walls covered with old 
paper, defile the atmosphere as much as a refuse heap in the cellar or back 
yard. A dark house is generally unwholesome and dirty. The sunlight is 
second only in importance to fresh air. To convince one that light purifies, 
it is only necessary to go into a darkened room and note the corrupt smell. 

Ventilation can not be accomplished by simply letting the pure air in; 
the bad air nmst be let out. Open a window at top and bottom, hold a 
lighted candle in the draft, and see the flame turn outward at the top and 
inward at the bottom, showing the purifying currents. Windows on opposite 
sides of the room ventilate still more perfectly. In sleeping rooms, avoid 
''drafts" when possible, but danger of taking cold from them may be 
averted by extra clothing. In living-rooms, an open fire-place or grate in- 
sures ventilation. The use of close stoves, and close rooms, alhe the causes 
of the increased prevalence and fatality, in winter, of small pox, scarlet 
fever, and other contagious diseases. 

Colds are often, if not generally, the result of debility, and are preceded 
hy disordered digestion. Such cases are prevented by a removal of the cause 
by diet and pure air. Extreme cold or heat, and sudden exf)osure to cold 



HINTS FOR THE WELL. 



469 



by passing from a heated room to cold outside air, is very injurious to the 
old or weak. All such should avoid great extremes and sudden changes. 
In passing from heated assemblies to the cold air, the mouth should be kept 
closed, and the breathing done through the nostrils only, so that the cold 
mr may be warmed before reaching the lungs, which have just been im- 
mersed in a hot-air bath. The injurious effect of such sudden changes is 
caused by driving the blood from the surface to the internal organs, pro- 
ducing congestions. 

Bad smells mean that decay is going on somewhere. Rotten particles 
are floating in the air, and {penetrating the nostrils and lungs. Their offen- 
siveness means that they are poison, and will produce sickness and death, or 
so reduce the tone of the system that ordinarily mild disorders will prove 
fatal. In all such cases remove the cause when possible. Many of these 
poisons are given off by the body, and are removed by pure air, as dirt is 
washed awav bv water. Soiled or foul air can not purify any more than 
dirty water will clean dirty clothes. Pure air enters the lungs, becomes 
charged with waste particles, which are poison if taken back again. An 
adult spoils one gallon of pure air every minute, or twenty-five flour barrelfuls 
in a single night, in breathing alone. A lighted gas-burner consumes eleven 
gallons, and an ordinary stove twenty-five gallons a minute. Think of these 
facts before sealing up the fire-place, or nailing down the windows for 

winter. , , . j. 

Let the sunshine into every room in the house. The sunlight is a great 
purifier. Keep the cellar not only clean and sweet, but give it fresh air and 
good ventilation, or it will poison the rest of the house. 

If one is accustomed to sleeping with windows open, there is no danger of 
taking cold from the exposure, winter or summer. People who shut up 
windows to keep out "night air," make a mistake. At night, the only air 
to breathe is night air." A bed that has been made up for a week or longer 
is not fit to sleep in. It has gathered moisture and should be aired. When 
fixed wash-bowls stand in sleeping-rooms, the waste-pipe should be carefully 
closed, as sewer gases often escape through them into the room. 

Many of the colds which people are said to catch, commence at the feet. To 
keep these extremities warm, therefore, is to effect an insurance against the 
almost interminable list of disorders which spring out of a "slight cold." 
First, never be tightly shod. Boots and shoes, when they fit closely, press 
against the foot and prevent a free circulation of the blood. When, on the 
contrary, thev do not embrace the foot too tightly the blood gets fair play, 
and the places left between the leather and the stockings are filled with a 
comfortable supply of warm air. The second rule is, never to sit in damp 
shoes. It is often imagined that unless they are positively wet it is not 
necessary to change them while the feet are at rest. This is a fallacy ; for 
when the least dampness is absorbed into the sole, it is attracted nearer to 
the foot itself bv its own heat, and thus perspiration is dangerously checked. 
Any person may prove this, by trying the experiment of neglecting this rule, 
and his feet will become cold and damp after a few moments, although, 
taking off the shoe and warming it, it will appear quite dry. 



470 HINTS FOB THE WELL. 

Remember that there is no patent medicine or " patent pad," warranted 
to "cure by absorption." tlmt will absorb "disease half as Lp dly a^a wet 
towel wrapped around the body, and covered with a dry flannel. If peopL 
were required to pay $10 each for this " valuable secret " there would be na 
difficulty in getung millions of testimonials to its efficacy. It is too cheap 

irfli^TrrrottdSaTe^""" " ^^^^"^--^ ^ ^ut when humbS 
One ot the most prominent writers on health topics says: "The creat 

steTrn r" V"r';;" - - - i'^'e «>? 

mature and the gray-headed: Allow nothing .km of ire or endanqered life to 

to enSv f H , '•'"g'h of life, which very few are ever permiUed 

to enjoy. If the love of health and life, or the fear of inducing painful 
d^ease can not .nduce you to adopt the plan I have recommended there i 
another argument which, to young gentlemen and young ladies, may appear 

Zi:ZZ''7~''''"''t"^^^ suffer yourself to'become 

and remain costive you will smell badly ; the breath of a costive child even is 

whl. / • ; n^^f foundations laid in constipation, 
which Itself IS infallibly induced by resisting nature's first calls. Eeador le 
It De your wisdom never to do it again." 

A Dyspeptic's Fight for Life. 
Judge W. was a depressed, despondent, discouraged, listless, moody nerv- 
ous, wretched dyspeptic, for five weary years. He tried travel, but neither 
the keen air of the sea-shore nor the bracing breezes of the northern prairies 
brought him reliet. He tried all the panaceas and all tlie doctors at home 
and abroad in vain. Some told him that he had heart-disease, others thought 
It was inflammation of the spleen, gout, Bright's disease, liver complaint 
lung difficulty, or softening of the brain. Bottle after bottle of nostrums 
went down the unfortunate man's throat, and it was only when pliysicians 
and friends gave him up, and pronounced him to all intents a dead man 
that he threw bottles, plasters, powders and pills to the four winds, and with 
the energy of despair, set about disappointing his doctors, and getting ready 
to live despite their ghastly predictions. Then began a fight for life against 
dyspepsia, a fight which many have begun, but few have won. He bathed 
the whole body every morning in cold water, summer and winter, not by a 
shower or a plunge, but by vigorously dashing the water on the body with the 
hands, and afterwards rubbing briskly with a coarse towel. This was con- 
tinued without missing a single morning for years. In the meantime the 
stnctest diet was instituted. By experimenting, the patient found what he 
could eat without harm, and ate that only in very small quantities, meas- 
uring his food on his plate before beginning his meal, and limiting himself 
rigidly to that quantity. His principal food for nearly three years was 



HINTS FOB THE WELL. 



471 



cracked wheat and Graham mush, and the last meal was taken at two o'clock 
in the afternoon — not a particle of food passed his lips from that time until 
the next morning, thus giving the stomach complete rest and time to begin 
the work of recuperation. Special attention was given to eating slowly and 
thoroughly masticating the food, and not to eat too much, too fast, or too 
often, were rules strictly and rigidly observed. Bathing, diet, rest, sleep, and 
gentle exercise in the open air did the work. It was a dreadful conflict — 
days of struggle and temptation, requiring more heroism and steady tenacity 
of purpose than would nerve a soldier for battle, for such a battle is for the 
day, but this fight was renewed every morning and continued every day for 
months and years. But patience, courage, intelligent judgment, and a strict 
adherence to the above regimen won the day without a grain or a drop of 
medicine, and Judge W. believes that the good Lord of us all has never per- 
mitted any man to discover or invent medicine that will cure dyspepsia. 
Nature is the only perfect physician. Cold water, fresh air, the natural 
grain (wheat), sleep, rest, and gentle exercise, make up the grand panacea. 
With these alone, and the self-denial and moral courage to persist in th& 
good fight, the confirmed, nervous, miserable dyspeptic, became a well, 
strong, and hearty man— in five days? No. In five months? No. In five 
years? Yes; and after the fight, when contemplating the victory won, he 
could say with the model philanthropist, Amos Lawrence, after his battle 
of fifteen long years with the same disease, " If men only knew how sweet the 
yictory is, they would not hesitate a moment to engage in the conflict." 



HINTS FOR THE SICK-ROOM. 



The sick-room should be the lightest, most cheerful, and best ventilated 
room in the houae. Patients in the sunny wards of hospitals recover 
soonest, and the sick, in nearly all cases, lie with their faces to the light. 
Every thing should be kept in perfect neatness and order. Matting is 
better than a carpet, though, when the latter is used, it may be kept clean 
by throwing a few damp tea-leaves over only a part of the room at a time, 
then quietly brushing them up with a hand-broom. A table not liable 
to injury, a small wicker basket with compartments to hold the different 
bottles of medicine and a small book in which to write all the physician's 
directions, two baskets made on the same plan to hold glasses or cups, 
screens to shade the light from the eyes of the patient, a nursery-lamp 
with which to heat water, beef- tea, etc., a quill tied on the door-handle 
with which the nurse can notify others that the patient is asleep by merely 
passing the feather-end through the key-hole, several "ring cushions" to 
give relief to patients compelled to lie continually in one position (these 
cushions are circular pieces of old linen sewed together and stuffed with 
bran ; or pads may be used, made of cotton-batting basted into pieces of 
old muslin of any size required), and a sick couch or chair, are a few of 
the many conveniences which ought to be in every sick-room. 

Pure air in a sick-room is of the utmost importance. In illness, the poi- 
soned body is desperately trying to throw olf, through lungs, skin, and in 
€very possible way, the noxious materials that have done the mischief. 
Bad air and dirtv or saturated bed-clothes, increase the difiicultv at the verv 
time when the weakened powers need all the help they can get. Avoid 
air from kitchen or close closets. Outside air is the best, but, if needed, 
there should be a fire in the room to take off the chill. A cold is rarely 
taken in bed, with the bed-clothes well tucked in, but oftener in getting up 
out of a warm bed when the skin is relaxed. Of course any thing like a 
"chill" should be avoided, and it is not w^ell to allow a draft or current of 
air to pass directly over the bed of the patient. 

A good way to secure a supply of fresh air, without a draft, is to have a 
board five or six inches wide, and as long as the width of the window; raise 
the lower sash, place board under it, and the fresh air finds its way in be- 
tween the sash by an upward current. 

In disease less heat is produced by the body than in health. This decline 
occurs even in summer, and is usually most evident in the early morning, 
when the vital powers slacken, the food of the previous day having been 
exhausted. The sick should be watched between midnight and ten or 



HINTS FOR THE SICK-ROOM, 



473 



'eleven in the morning, and if any decline in lieat is noticed, it should be 
supplied by jugs of hot water. A sick-room should, above all, be quiet. 
Any rustling sound, such as that of a silk dress or shoes which creak, should 
be entirely avoided. If it is necessary to put coal on the fire, drop it on 
quietly in small paper sacks, or rolled in paper slightly dampened. Visitors 
should never be admitted to a sick-room. The necessary attendants are usu- 
ally a sufficient annoyance to a weak patient, and many a tombstone might 
truthfully and appropriately be inscribed, ''Talked to death by well-meaning 
friends." It is not generally the loudness of a noise that disturbs the sick, 
but the sound that produces expectation of something to happen. Soma 
can not bear any noise. Any thing that suddenly awakens is injurious. 
Never awaken a sleeping patient unless ordered to do so by the physician. 
In sickness, the brain is weakened with the rest of the body, and sleep 
strengthens it. If rest is interrupted soon after it is begun, the brain is 
weakened so much the more, and the patient becomes irritable and wake- 
ful. If sleep lasts longer, he falls asleep again more readily. Never speak 
within the hearing of the sick, in tones which can not be fully understood. 
An occasional word, or murmur of conversation, or whisper, is intolerable, 
and occasions needless apprehension. 

Few persons have any idea of the exquisite neatness necessary in a sick- 
room. What a well person might endure with impunity, may prove fatal to 
a weak patient. Especially the bed and bedding should be scrupulously 
clean. In most diseases the functions of the skin are disordered, and the 
clothing becomes saturated with foul perspiration, so that the patient alter- 
nates between a cold damp after the bed is made, and a warm damp before, 
both poison to his system. Sheets which are used should be dried often 
from this poisonous damp, either in the sun or by the fire, and the mattress 
and blanket next the sheets should also be carefully aired as often as pos- 
sible. In changing very sick patients (particularly women after confinement) 
the sheets and wearing-clothes should be well aired by hanging by the fire 
for two days. Move the patient close to one side of the bed, turn the 
under sheet over close to the invalid, then smooth the mattress, removing 
any thing that may be on it. Make ready the clean sheet, by rolling one- 
half into a round roll, lay this close by the invalid, spread the other half 
smoothly over the bed. Now assist the patient on the clean sheet, unroll 
and spread over the other side of the bed. Have the upper sheet ready, 
which must be carefully and gently laid over the invalid, then add the other 
bed-clothes. (In dressing a blister where a bandage has to be placed around 
the body, roll one-half the bandage, place it under the invalid, so that the 
attendant at the other side can reach it, unrolling, and placing it around 
the patient without disturbing him.) Light blankets are best for coverings. 
Never use the impervious cotton counterpanes and comforters. The clothing 
should be as light as possible with the requisite warmth. The bed should 
be low, and placed in the light, and as a rule the pillows should be low, so 
as to give the lungs free play. Scrofula is sometimes caused by children 
sleeping with their heads under the clothing, and patients sometimes ac- 
quire the same injurious habit. 



474 



HINTS FOE THE SICK-ROOM. 



Bathing should always be done under the advice of a physician, but soap 
and water are great restoratives. In most cases, washing and properly dry- 
ing the skin gives great relief. Care should be taken, while sponging and 
cleansing, not to expose too great a surface at a time, so as to check per- 
spiration. The physician will regulate the temperature. Sometimes a little 
vinegar, whisky, or alcohol added to the water, makes the bath more re- 
freshing, and bay-rum for the face, neck, and hands is often acceptable. 
Whenever the bath is followed by a sense of oppression, it has done harm. 
Its eflect should be comfort and relief. 

Chamber utensils should be emptied and thoroughly cleansed immedi- 
ately after using, and in no case allowed to remain standing in the sick- 
room. Slop-pails, into which nothing should be allowed to go except the 
waste water from the wash stand, must be emptied and cleansed thoroughly 
at least twice a day. 

It is well for both nurse and patient to remember that nothing relieves 
nausea or vomiting sooner than drinking hot water in as great quantity and 
as hot as possible. Placing the hands in hot water up to the wrists, a flan- 
nel or other cloth, dipped in hot water and laid five or six folds thick, on 
any pained part, will relieve suffering more promptly than all the i)ain- 
killers in the world. Cover the wet flannel with another dry one, the edges 
of which extend over the wet one an inch or more. In about five minutes 
slip the wet flannel out and put in its place another as hot as can be han- 
dled, taking care to let as little cold air as possible touch the skin over 
which the hot flannel has been applied. When pain is relieved, put on 
towels wet in cool water and cover with flannel ; leave for an hour or more, 
remove and w^ipe dry, rubbing vigorously. These hot applications will often 
relieve a violent, dry cough in a few minutes, and in some forms of croup 
will cure in half an hour. 

Patients are often killed by kindness. A spoonful of improper food, or 
the indulgence of some whim, may prove fatal. A physician's directions 
should always be observed with the strictest fidelity. Medicines and things 
which will be wanted during the night should all be prepared before the 
patient grows sleepy. Every thing should be done quickly but quietly, and 
with precision. In talking, sit where the patient can see you without turn- 
ing his head. Never ask questions when he is doing any thing, and never 
lean or sit upon the bed. Sick persons generally prefer to be told any 
thing rather than to have it read to them. A change in the ornaments oi" 
the room is a great relief, and the sick especially enjoy bright and beautiful 
things. Flowers, which do not have a pungent odor, are always a great 
delight. 

In convalescence great care is necessary, and the physician's directions 
should be implicitly obeyed, especially in regard to diet; a failure in obedi- 
ence often brings on a fatal relapse, A little food at a time and often re- 
peated, is the general rule for the sick. A table-spoon of beef-tea, every 
half hour, will be digested, when a cupful every three or four hours will be 
rejected. (In giving a drink or liquid of any kind a moustache-cup will be 



HINTS FOE THE SICK-ROOM. 



Alb 



found a great convenience. ) The sick can rarely take solid food before eleven in 
the morning, and a spoonful of beef-tea, or whatever stimulant the physician 
has ordered, given every hour or two, relieves exhaustion. Brandy, whisky, 
or other alcoholic stimulants, however, should never be ordered in cases 
where there is a hereditary tendency to use them, or where they have been 
used as a beverage, or where the associations of the patient in the future 
would be likely to make an acquired taste for them a temptation. In most 
cases substitutes may readily be found. Untouched food should never be 
left at the bed-side. Every meal should be a surprise, and the patient should 
be left alone while eating. Food for the sick must be of the best quality, 
and neatly and delicately prepared. The cook should do half the patient's 
digesting. Keep the cup and saucer dry, so that no drops will fall on the 
bed or clothing. 

Beef-tea contains a certain amount of nourishment, and may be given 
in almost any inflammatory disease. Eggs do not agree with all patients, 
but are nourishing food when admissible. Tenderloin of beef, cut across 
the grain, and broiled on live coals, without smoke, and well cooked or 
rare, as the physician may direct, is always relished; and a tender lamb- 
chop, broiled in the same way, with the fat removed before serving, is 
easily digested and nutritious. Roasted potatoes, very mealy, are prefer- 
red to other vegetables. Milk is a representative diet; and, when it agrees 
with the digestion, is probably better adapted to strengthen the body in 
sickness than any other one article of food, but it must be fresh and pure. 
The least taint of sourness is injurious. Butter-milk, however, when fresh, 
is useful in fevers, bilious diseases and dyspepsia. Cream is even better 
than milk, and is less apt to turn acid in the stomach. Many patients 
thrive on Indian-meal mush and cream, and any preparations of Indian- 
meal are especially good for persons who are suffering from the loss of natural 
warmth (see Bread-making). Oat-meal, Graham and rye mush, and home- 
made brown-bread, are important articles of diet, greatly relished by the 
sick. There are instances of persons recovering from serious illness where 
a table-spoon of rye mush, and half tea-cup butter-milk, three times a day, 
w^ere all that could be taken for two or three wrecks. A patient's craving 
for any particular article of food should be communicated to the physi- 
cian, as it is often a valuable indication of the wants of the system. These 
cravings should be gratified whenever |>ossible. Melons act on the kidneys, 
and are good in many cases of fever, bowel complaint, etc. Celery also is 
good in some diseases of the kidneys, and in nervousness and rheumatism. 
Fresh, crisp, raw cabbage, sliced tine and eaten with good vinegar, is easily 
digested, and often highly relished by a patient suffering from a "weak 
stomach." New cider is also excellent in many cases of nervous dyspep- 
sia. Fruits and berries — raw, ripe and perfect — used in moderation, are 
admirable remedies in cases of constipation and its attendant diseases. 
The grape has a wide range of curative qualities. The seeds are excel- 
lent for costiveness ; the pulp is very nutritious and soothing to irritated 
bowels, while the skins, if chewed, act as an astringent. Raw beef is ex- 



476 



HINTS FOR THE SICK-ROOM. 



cellent in dysentery; it should be minced very fine, and given in doses 
of a spoonful at a time every four hours, the patient, in the meantime, 
eating nothing else. Bananas or baked apples are good in chronic diar- 
rha3a. A rind of bacon is good for teething children to chew. Rice-water 
or rice-jelly are advisable in many cases of convalescence from acute fever, 
summer complaint and like diseases. Fresh pop-corn, nicely salted, clam- 
broth, the juice of a roasted oyster in the shell, soda-water and pepper- 
mint-tea are remedies for sick stomach. Vegetable acid drinks, herb-teas, 
toast-water, and all such drinks are often much relished. A custard made 
from a preparation of liquid rennet, as directed on bottle, is a delicate 
dish. Buttered-toast, either dry or dipped, though so generally given, is 
rarely a suitable article for the sick, as melted oils are very difficult of diges- 
tion. In quinsy, diphtheria, inflammation of lungs, typhus and other putrid 
fevers, acids are of very great benefit. Take a handful of dried currants, 
pour over them a pint of boiling water, let them stand half a minute with- 
out stirring, then drain off the water, strain it through a cloth, and set it away 
to cool; when given to the patient, dilute w^ell, so that the acid taste is very 
slight. Acid fruits should be eaten early in the day. Above all, it should 
be remembered, that it is not the nourishment which food contains, but 
that which the stomach can assimilate, that builds up ; a sick person will thrive 
on what would not sustain a well man. 

It is of the utmost importance that the food be delicately and carefully 
administered, and this should never be left to servants. It should be made 
as attractive as possible, served in the choicest ware, with the cleanest of 
napkins, and the brightest of silver. If tea is served, it should be freshly 
drawn, in a dainty cup, with a block of white sugar, and a few drops of 
sweet cream. Toast should be thin, symmetrical, well yellowed, free from 
crust, and just from the fire. Steak should be a cut of the best tenderloin, 
delicately broiled, and served with the nicest of roasted potatoes. The atten- 
tion given to these simple matters is, in many cases, worth more than the 
physician's prescriptions. 

The craving for tea and coffee is almost universal with the sick. A moder- 
ate quantity is a great restorative ; but an excess, especially of coffee, im- 
pairs digestion. Neither should be given after five in the afternoon, as 
they increase excitement and cause sleeplessness ; but sleeplessness from ex- 
haustion in the* early morning is often relieved by a cup of tea or coffee. 
The patient's taste will decide which should be used. In cases of thirst, 
the physician will prescribe what other drink should be given to satisfy it. 
Cocoa is not often craved by the sick, and possesses no stimulating qualities. 
Crust-coffee is very nourishing. 

A very simple means of refreshing the nurse, and a valuable disinfectant, 
if the nature of the invalid's complaint does not forbid it — that is seldom 
the case — is to put some pure, fresh-ground coffee on a saucer, or other dish, 
and in the center place a very small piece of camphor-gum, and touch a 
match to it. As the gum burns, allow sufficient coffee to consume to per- 
vade the atmosphere with the aroma; it is wonderful in its invigorating 
effects. 



FOOD FOR THE SICK 



477 



The following recipe makes a delicious, refreshing and cooling wash for 
the sick-room : 

Take of rosemary, wormwood, lavender, rue, sage and mint a large hand- 
ful of each. Place in a stone jar, and turn over it one gallon of strong cider 
vinegar, cover closely, and keep near the fire for four days; then strain, and 
add one ounce of pounded camphor-gum. Bottle and keep tightly corked. 

There is a French legend connected with this preparation (called vinaigre 
a quatre voleurs). During the plague at Marseilles, a band of robbers plun- 
dered the dying and the dead without injury to themselves. They were im- 
prisoned, tried and condemned to die, but were pardoned on condition of 
disclosing the secret whereby they could ransack houses infected with the 
terrible scourge. They gave the above recipe. Another mode of using it, is 
to wash the face and hands with it before exposing one's self to any infec- 
tion. It is very aromatic and refreshing in the sick-room; so, if it can ac- 
complish nothing more, it is of great value to nurses. 

FOOD FOR THE SICK. 

Crust Coffee. — Toast bread very brown, pour on boiling water, strain and 
add cream and sugar and nutmeg, if desired. 

Cream Soup. — One pint boiling water, half tea-cup cream; add broken 
pieces of toasted bread and a little salt. 

Wine Whey. — One pint of boiling milk, two wine-glasses of wine, boil a 
moment, stirring well; take out the curd, sweeten and flavor the whey. 

Raspberry Relish. — To each pint of berry juice add one pound of sugar. 
Let it stand over night; next morning boil ten minutes, and bottle for use. 

Parched Rice. — Cook in custard-kettle a half cup parched rice in one 
pint boiling salted water; when done serve with cream and sugar. 

Alum Whey. — Mix half ounce powdered alum with one pint sweet milk, 
strain and add sugar and nutmeg; it is good in hemorrhages, and sometimes 
for colic. 

Sago Custard. — Soak two table-spoons sago in a tumbler of water an hour 
or more, then boil in same water until clear, and add a tumbler of sweet 
milk ; when it boils, add sugar to taste, then a beaten egg and flavoring. 

Baked Milk. — Bake two quarts milk for eight or ten hours in a moderate 
oven, in a jar covered with writing paper, tied down. It will then be as 
thick as cream, and may be used by weak persons. 

Butter-milk Stew. — Boil one pint butter-milk, add small lump butter, 
and sweeten to taste. Some add a tea-spoon of ginger and honey instead of 
sugar. 

Chicken Broth. — Take the first and second joints of a chicken, boil in 
one quart of water till very tender, and season with a very little salt and 
pepper. 

Egg Gruel. — Beat the yolk of an egg with a table-spoon of sugar, beating 
the white separately; add a tea-cup of boiling water to the yolk, then stir in 
the white, and add any seasoning; good for a cold. 

Tamarind Whey. — Mix an ounce of tamarind pulp with a pint of milk, 
strain and sweeten. Or, simply stir a table-spoon of tamarinds into a pint 
of water. 

To Remove Grease from Broths for the Sick. — After pouring in dish» 
pass clean white wrapping-paper quickh^ over the top of broth, using sev- 
eral pieces, till all grease is removed. 

Sassafras Drink.— Take the pith of sassafras boughs, break in small 
pieces and let soak in cold water till the water becomes glutinous. This is 
good nourishment, and much relislied. 

Pearled Wheat PrnDiNt.. — One pint of wheat, one half gallon new milk. 



478 



FOOD FOR THE SICK. 



sweeten and flavor to taste, bake one hour. This is a delicious and simple 
pudding. 

Raw Beef.— Chop fresh, lean beef (the best steak or roast) very fine, 
sprinkle with salt and pepper, and put between thin slices of Graham or 
white buttered-bread. This is a very nutritious diet. 

Raw Beef Tea.— Cut up lean, fresh meat, soak eight or ten hours in a 
small quantity of cold water. This is good after severe cases of typhoid 
fever. 

A Sel^holder for a Spoon.— In dropping medicine into a spoon, place 
the handle between the leaves of a closed book lying on the table, and then 
both hands may be used in dropping the mixture. 

Sea-moss Farine.— Dessert-spoon of sea-moss farine, quart boiling water; 
steep a few minutes, sweeten and flavor with lemon (leaving out rinds). 
This is a very pleasant drink and is good for colds. 

Jellice.— One-lialf tea-spoon of currant, lemon or cranberry jelly put into 
a goblet, beat well with two table-spoons water, fill up with ice-water, and you 
have a refreshing drink for a fever patient. 

Fever Drink.— Pour cold water on wheat bran, let boil half an hour, 
strain and add sugar and lemon-juice. Pour boiling water on flax-seed, let 
stand till it is ropy, pour into hot lemonade and drink. 

Barley Water.— Add two ounces pearl barley to half pint boiling water; 
let simmer five minutes, drain and add two quarts boiling water ; add two 
ounces sliced figs, and two ounces stoned raisins ; boil until reduced to a 
quart ; strain for drink. 

Beef-Tea Soup.— To one pint of "beef essence" (made in a bottle as 
directed in recipe on a succeeding page), quite hot, add a tea-cup of the best 
cream, well heated, into which the yolk of a fresh egg has been previously 
stirred, mix carefully together, and season slightly, and serve. 

To Prevent Wearing Through the Skin when Bed-Ridden.— Apply to 
tender parts of the body with a feather, a mixture made by beating to a 
strong froth, the white of an egg, dropping in while beating tw^o tea-spoons 
spirits of wine. Bottle for use. 

To Drop Medicine.— Shake the bottle so as to moisten the cork. With 
the wet end of the cork moisten the edges of the mouth of the bottle, then, 
holding the cork under the mouth, let the fluid pass over the cork in drop- 
ping. 

Vegetable Soup.— Two tomatoes, two potatoes, two onions, and one table- 
spoon rice ; boil the whole in one quart of water for one hour, season with 
salt, dip dry toast in this till quite soft, and eat; this may be used when 
animal food is not allowed. 

Currant Shrub.— Make the same as jelly, but boil only ten minutes; 
when cool, bottle and cork tight, (see directions for canned fruits). Raspberry, 
strawberry and blackberry shrubs are made in the same way ; wdien used, 
put in two-thirds ice-water. 

Oat-meal Blanc-mange. — A delicious blanc-mange is made by stirring 
two heaping table-spoons of oat-meal into a little cold water, then stir with 
a quart of boiling milk, flavor and pour into molds to cool, when cream or 
jelly may be eaten with it. 

Mulled Buttermilk.— Put on good buttermilk, and when it boils, add 
the well-beaten yolk of an egg. Let boil up and serve. Or, stir into boiling 
buttermilk thickening made of cold buttermilk and flour. This is excellent 
for convalescing patients. 

Oat-meal Gruel.— Put two heaping table-spoons oat-meal in one quart cold 
water, stir till it commences to boil, then cook one hour, stirring occasionally ; 
do not let it scorch ; season with salt, sugar, and any spice desired. For 
infants and very sick patients it must be strained, and not sallied. 

Broiled Chicken, Quail, Squirrel or Woodcock.— Any of these must 
be tender. Take the breast of the first two, or the thighs of the others; 
place on hot coals or on a broiler, turning often to prevent burning. When 



FOOD FOR THE SICK. 



479 



done, remove the burned parts, if any, season slightly with butter, pepper 
and salt, and serve at once. 

Arrowroot Custard. — One table-spoon of arrowroot, one pint of milk, 
one egg, two table-spoons sugar; mix the arrowroot with a little of the C0I4 
milk ; put the rest of milk on the fire and boil, and stir in the arrowroot 
and egg and sugar, well beaten together ; scald and pour into cups to cool ; 
any flavoring the invalid prefers may be added. 

Cinnamon Tea. — To a half-pint fresh, new milk add stick or ground cin- 
namon enough to flavor, and white sugar to taste ; bring to boilifig point, 
and take eitber warm or cold. Excellent for diarrhcea in adults or chil- 
dren. A few drops or a tea-spoon of brandy may be added, if the case 
demands. 

Tapioca Jelly. — One half pint tapioca, one quart water, juice and some 
of the grated rind of a lemon ; soak the tapioca for three or four hours in the 
water, sweeten it and boil for one hour in a custard-kettle, or until quite clear, 
stirring it often. When almost done, stir in the lemon, and when sutficiently 
cooked, pour into molds. Serve with sweetened cream. 

Sago Jelly-pudding. — Wash thoroughly one tea-cup of sago, cook it in 
three pints of water fifteen or twenty minutes, till perfectly clear, add a 
very little salt; stir in half a jelly-glass of currant, grape or other jelly 
and two spoonfuls sugar. Mold and serve cold with cream and sugar; or, 
eat warm. 

Graham Gems for Invalids. — Mix Graham flour with half milk and 
half water, add a little salt, beat, making the batter thin enough to pour; 
have the gem-pan very hot, grease it, fill as quickly as possible and return 
immediately to a hot oven; bake about thirty minutes. Practice will teach 
just the proper consistency of the batter, and the best temperature of the 
oven. It will not be good unless well beaten. 

Panada. — Take two richest crackers, pour on boiling water, let stand a few 
minutes, beat up an egg, sweeten to taste, and stir all together; grate in 
nutmeg and add brandy or wine to suit the invalid. Or, break in a pint bowl 
toasted bread and pour over boiling water, adding a small lump of butter, 
two table-spoons wine, brandy or whisky ; sweeten to taste and flavor with 
nutmeg or cinnamon. 

Raspberry Vinegar. — Pour over two quarts of raspberries in a stone jar, 
one quart of very best vinegar; let stand twenty- four hours, strain, and 
pour liquor over fresh fruit, and let stand in the same way ; allow one pound 
sugar to a pint of juice; put into a stone jar and set in pot of boiling water 
one hour; skim well, put into bottles, cork and seal tight. Diluted with 
water this is very nice for the sick. Toasted bread may be eaten with it. 

Rice Jelly. — Mix one heaping table-spoon of rice-flour with cold water 
•until it is a smooth paste, add a scant pint of boiling water, sweeten with 
loaf-sugar ; boil until quite clear. If the jelly is intended for a patient 
with summer complaint, stir with a stick of cinnamon; if for one with 
fever, flavor with lemon juice, and mold. Rice-water is made in the same 
manner, by using twice the quantity of boiling water. 

Royal Strawberry Acid. — Take three pounds ripe strawberries, two 
ounces citric acid, and one quart of water ; dissolve the acid in the water, 
and pour it over the berries ; let them stand in a cool place twenty-four 
hours, draw olf, and pour in three pounds more of berries, and let it stand 
twenty-foar hours. Add to the liquor its own weight of sugar, boil three or 
four minutes each day for three days, then cork tightly and seal. Keep in 
a dry and cool place. 

Strawberry Acid. — Dissolve five ounces tartaric acid in two quarts of 
water, and pour it upon twelve pounds of strawberries in a porcelain ket- 
tle; let it simmer forty-eight hours ; strain it, taking care not to bruise th« 
fruit. To every pint of juice add one and one-half pounds of sugar and stir 
until dissolved, then leave it a few days. Bottle and cork lightly; if a slight 
■fermentation takes place leave the cork out a few days. Then cork, ^eal 
And keep bottles in a cold place. 



480 



FOOD FOR THE SICK. 



Blackberry Wine. — To every gallon of bruised berries, add lialf a gal- 
lon of soft cold water ; let stand twenty-four hours, then strain. To every 
gallon juice, add three pounds sugar; fill a cask and let it remain without 
moving or shaking until it has fermented, which it will have done in six 
weeks. Put over the mouth of the cask a thin piece of muslin. When 
fermentation has ceased, draw^ off the wine and bottle without shaking the 
cask. Cork and seal. 

Oat-meal Cakes. — Take equal parts fine oat-meal and water; mix and 
pour into a pan about one-third of an inch deep and bake half an hour, or 
until crisp and slightly brown ; or make half an inch thick and bake soft like 
a johnny-cake; or if the oven is not hot enough to bake, pour it into a fry- 
ing-pan, cover it and bake it on the top of the stove, dishing it when brown 
on the bottom. It is not good cold. If any be left, warm it up and it is al- 
most as good as new. 

Oat-meal Pie-crust. — This is made exactly like the dough for crackers; 
it may be rolled a very little thinner. It bakes quickly, so that care must 
be taken not to scorch it in cooking the contents of the pie. It is not suited 
for an upper crust, but does admirably for pies that require but one crust. 
It is just the thing for those who do not think shortened pie-crusts whole- 
some, and it is good enough for any one. One can eat it with as much im- 
punity as so much oat-meal mush and fruit sauce. 

Mutton Broth. — Put two pounds of mutton and two quarts cold water to 
boil, add one table-spoon rice washed carefully through several waters. Let 
it boil till the meat will leave the bone, and the rice is cooked to a liquid 
mass. Take from the fire, season with a little salt; skin, if preferred. If 
for a patient with fiux leave on all the fat (the more fat the better). 

This is also a nice way to make chicken broth. Take a chicken size of a 
quail and prepare as above. 

Uncooked Egg.— This is quite palatable, and very strengthening, and 
may be prepared in a variety of ways. Break an egg into a goblet and beat 
thoroughly, add a tea-spoon sugar, and after beating a moment add a tea- 
spoon or two of brandy or port wine; beat well and add as much rich milk, 
or part cream and milk, as there is of the mixture. Or, omit brandy and 
flavor with any kind of spice; or, milk need not be added, or the egg may 
be beaten separately, stirring in lightly the well-whipped whites at the last. 

Cracked Wheat Pudding. — To one quart new or wiskinimed milk add 
one-third cup cracked wheat, same of sugar (or a little more if preferred), a 
little salt and small piece of stick cinnamon. Place in moderate oven and 
bake two hours or longer. When about half done stir in the crust already 
formed, and it will form another sufficiently brown. When done the wheat 
will be very soft, and the pudding of a creamy consistency. It can be eaten 
hot or cold, and is nice for invalids. A handful of raisins added is consid- 
ered an improvement by some. 

Broiled Beefsteak. — Many times a small piece of "tenderloin" or "por- 
terhouse " is more wholesome, for an invalid, than broths and teas ; and with 
this may be served a potato, roasted in the ashes, dressed with sweet cream 
(or a little butter) and salt, or nicely cooked tomatoes. Have the steak from 
half an inch to an inch thick, broil carefully two or three minutes over hot 
coals, turning often with a knife and fork, so as not to pierce it When 
done, put on a small dish, season slightly with salt and pepper, and a small 
bit of butter, garnish with the potato, and serve hot. 

Stewed Oysters.— Remove all bits of shell from a half dozen fresh, select 
oysters, place in a colander, pour over a tea-cup of water, drain, place liquor, 
drained off* in a porcelain-lined sauce-pan, let come to boiling point, skim 
well ; pour off" into another heated dish, all except the last spoonful which 
will contain sediment and bits of shell which may have been overlooked, 
wipe out sauce-pan, return liquor, add oysters, let come to the boiling point». 
add a small lump of good butter, a tea-spoon of cracker-dust, a very little, 
cayenne pepper and salt, and a half tea-cup fresh, sweet cream. 



FOOD FOR THE SICK. 481 



To M\KE KUMYss.— Take three quarts of good, rich, sweet milk; one 
auart of hot water, in which dissolve one-half pint sugar ; add the hot 
water to the milk; when this mixture is lukewarm add three table-spoons ot 
brewer's yeast; set in a moderately warm place, stir often, and, when it 
begins to sparkle (which will be in about one and a half hours), put it inta 
strong bottles and cork tight; put in a cool place and in eight hours it will 
be ready for use. Procure a champagne tap (cost $1), and draw the best 

kuniyss ever made! j ui i ic,i 

PrWared Flour for Summer Complaint.— Take a double handful of 
flour tie up tightly in cloth and put in a kettle of boiling \vater, boil troni 
three to six hours, take out, remove the cloth, and you will have a hard, 
round ball. Keep in a dry, cool place, and when wanted lor use prepare 
by placing some sweet milk (new always preferred) to boil, and grating into 
the milk from the ball enough to make it as thick as you desire stirring it 
iust before removing from the stove with a stick of cinnamon ; this gives it 
a pleasant tlavor; put a little salt into the milk. \ery good for children 
having summer complaint. . •^^ a 

Milk Porridge.— Place on stove in skillet one pint new sweet rnilk and a 
very little pinch of salt; when it boils have ready sifted flour, and sprinkle 
with one hand into the boiling milk, stirring all the while with a spoon 
Keep adding Hour until it is about the consistency of thick molasses; eat 
warm with a little butter and sugar. This is excellent for children suffering 
with summer complaint. Or, mix the tiour with a little cold milk until a 
smooth paste, and then stir into the boiled milk. Or, break an egg into the 
drv flour nnd rub it with the hands until it is all in fine crumbs (size of a 
grain of wheat), then stir this mixture into the boiling milk i 
Br\n Biscuits.— Take cup bran (as prepared by Davis & Taylor, J4 Canal 
Street Boston), five cups sifted flour; scald the bran at tea-time witli half 
pint boiling water; when cool, i)Our it into the middle of the flour, add one- 
half cup good veast (or part of a veast-cake, soaked till light), one tea-spoon 
salt and two table-spoons sugar ; wet with new milk into soft dough, much 
thicker than batter. Let it stand, covered closely, in a warm place to rise. 
In the morning, spoon into hot gem or patty-pans, and bake in a quick oven 
to a brown crust. Part of the dough may be baked in a small loaf to be 
eaten warm. (It can be made wnth w\ater by using a little butter, but is not 
so "-ood.) Anv remaining may be split for dinner or toasted for tea. 

sp\T-ME\L Wafers.— Use equal parts water and oat-meal, make as thm as 
you can shake it out on the bottom of pan, so that when done it will not be 
thicker than a knife-blade anvwhere, and in most places you can see day- 
light through it. Bake very slowlv until quite dry, watching that it may not 
scorch In taking out it will probably break into many fragments, but they 
will be delicious ones— not shapelv for the table, but so temptingly savored 
tiiat any delicate person w^ho can eat at all will find them satisfying, nour- 
ishing and easily digested— far better than the standard sick dish called 
gruel. ' As for the well folks, put your wafers out of the way if you expect 
to find any of them for the invalid's next meal. 

Bl\ckberry Cordial.— Put a half bushel of blackberries m a preserv- 
ing-kettle and cook until scalded through well ; strain and press out all the 
juice; put juice in kettle with the following spices well broken up and put 
into a bag; one-quarter pound allspice, two ounces cinnamon-bark, two 
ounces cloves, and two nutmegs ; add loaf-sugar, about one pound to every 
quart of juice or more if preferred, and cook slowly ten or fifteen minutes, 
remove from the fire, let cool a little, and add good pure brandy m the pro- 
portion of one pint to every three pints of juice. A smaller quantity may 
be made, using the same proportions. This is an excellent remedy for di- 
arrhoea and other diseases of the bowels. , , -, 
Good Toast.— Toast slices of bread, scrape off any blackened, charred 
portion ; lay on a soup-plate, pour on cold milk enough to wet through, and 
leave half an inch or so in depth of milk ia the plate. Good milk, wath a 



482 



FOOD FOR THE SICK. 



little extra cream in it, is all the better, and a very trifle of salt improves 
it. Put over the toast thus prepared, an inverted large earthen bowl, or tin 
basin, large enough to cover it and set down upon the plate all round. Put 
this in a warm, not very hot, stove oven, two, three, or more hours in ad- 
vance. The milk will cook and evaporate and its substance be condensed 
in the toast, while the cover will keep the toast moist. It is then very good 
without butter, though a little may be used if desired. 

Beef Broth. — Cut in small pieces one pound of good lean beef; put on 
in two quarts of cold water and boil slowly, keeping it well covered, one and 
one-half hours; then add half a tea-cup tapioca, which has been soaked 
three-quarters of an hour in water enough to cover, and boil half an hour 
longer. Some add, with the tapioca, a small bit of parsley, and a slice or 
two of onion. Strain before serving, seasoning slightl3' with pepper and 
salt. It is more strengthening to add, just before serving, a soft poached 
egg. Rice may be used instead of tapioca, straining the broth, and adding 
one or two table-spoons rice (soaked for a short time), and then boiling half 
an hour. 

Meat for Invalids. — The following method of rendering raw meat pal- 
atable to invalids is given by good authority. To 8.7 ounces of raw meat, 
from the loin, add 2.6 ounces shelled sweet almonds, .17 ounces shelled 
bitter almonds, and 2.8 ounces white sugar — these to be beaten together in 
a marble mortar to a uniform pulp, and the hbers separated by a strainer. 
The pulp, which has a rosy hue, and a very agreeable taste, does not at all 
remind one of meat, and may be kept fresh for a considerable time, even 
in summer, in a dry, cool place. Yolk of egg may be added to it. From 
this pulp, or directly from the above substance, an emulsion may be pre- 
pared which will be rendered still more nutritious by adding milk. 

Articles for the Sick-room. — A rubber bag, holding two quarts, to be 
one-half or three-quarters filled with hot water, and placed about the patient 
where needed — under head in neuralgia, around the side in liver-congestion, 
etc.; or can be filled with very cold water in cases needing such applications 
— is very flexible and agreeable, and can be used w^here a soap-stone or bottle 
would hurt. Price, $2.00. 

A pair of very long, loose stockings, knit of Saxony wool, or any soft 
yarn, without heels, to draw on towards morning in fever cases, or to keep 
atient warm when she is up; they might come half way between the 
nee and thigh. Every housekeeper should have a pair to be used in cases 
of sickness. 

Oat-meal Crackers. — Wet one pint fine oat-meal with one gill water; 
work it a few minutes with a spoon, until you can make it up into a mass; 
place on a board well covered with dry oat-meal; make as compact as you 
can, and roll out carefullv to one-sixth of an inch thick, and cut into 
squares with a knife. Bake in a very slow oven, or merely scald at first; 
and then let them stand in the oven until they dry out. These are difficult 
to make up at first, but you soon learn to handle the dough and to watch 
oven so that they will not scorch. These are excellent for all the purposes 
of crackers, and if kept dry, or if packed in oat-meal, they will last good 
for months. This is one form of the Scotch ''bannock." A rich addition 
is two heaping spoonsful of ground dessicated cocoanut. 

Old-time Food for Convalescents. — Roast good potatoes in hot ashes 
and coals; when done, put in a coar.se cloth and squeeze with the hand, and 
take out the inside on a plate. Put a slice of good pickled pork on a stick 
three or four feet long, hold before a wood fire until it cooks slightly, then 
dip into a pan of water and let it drip on the potato to season it ; repeat until 
the meat is nicely cooked on one side, then turn the other, dip in water, etc. 
"When done place on plate beside the potato, serve with a slice of toast dressed 
with hot water and a little vinegar and salt, or use sweet cream instead of 
vinegar. A cup of sage tea, made by pouring boiling water on a few leaves 
of sage and allowing it to stand a few minutes, served with cream and sugar, 



FOOD FOR THE SICK, 



483 



ig very nice ; or crust coffee, or any herb tea is good. Food prepared in this 
way obviates the use of butter. 

Beef-Tea. — Cut pound best lean steak in small pieces, place in glass fruit- 
jar (a ;>er/ec< one), cover tightly and set in a pot of cold water; heat gradu- 
ally to boil, and continue this steadily three or four hours, until the meat is 
like white rags and the juice thoroughly extracted ; season with very little 
salt, and strain through a wire strainer. Serve either warm or cold. To 
prevent jar toppling over, tie a string around the top part, and hang over a 
stick laid across the top of pot. When done, set kettle off stove and let cool 
before removing the jar, and in this way prevent breakage. Or, when beef- 
tea is wanted for immediate use, place in a common pint bowl (yellow ware), 
add very little water, cover with saucer, and place in a moderate oven; if in 
danger of burning add a little more water. To make beef-tea more palatable 
for some patients, freeze it. 

Corn-meal Grxjel.— Add to three pints boiling water two table-spoons corn- 
meal, stirred up with a little cold water ; add a pinch of salt and cook twenty 
minutes. For very sick persons, let it settle, pour off the top, and give with- 
out other seasoning. For convalescents, toast a pie^ie of bread nicely, and 
put in the gruel with one or two table-spoons sweet cream, a little sugar and 
ginger, or nutmeg and cinnamon. When a laxative diet is allowed this is very 
nourishing. Or, take a pint of meal, pour over it a quart or more of cold 
water, stir up, let settle a moment, and pour off the water; repeat this three 
times, then put the washed meal into three quarts of cold water, and place 
where it will boil ; cook three hours, and when done add a pinch of salt. 
This is a very delicate way of cooking, and it may be eaten with or without 
other seasoning. This is an old and very valuable recipe, used thirty years 
ago by Dr. Davenport, of Milford Center, Ohio. 

Boiled Flour or Flour Ball.— Take one quart good flour ; tie in a pnd- 
ding-bag so tightly as to make a solid mass ; put into a pot of boiling water 
early in the morning, and let boil until bedtime ; take out and let dry. In 
the morning, peel off and throw away the thin rind of dough, and, with a 
nutmeg-grater, grate down the hard dry mass into a powder. Of this from 
one to three tea-spoonfuls may be used, by first rubbing it into a paste with 
a little milk, then adding it to about a pint of milk, and, finally, by bringing 
the whole to just the boiling-point. Give through a nursing-bottle. For 
children who are costive use bran-meal or unbolted flour instead of white 
flour, preparing as above directed. 

Rice Water.— Wash four table-spoons of rice ; put it into tw^o quarts of 
water, which boil down to one quart, and then add sugar and a little nut- 
meg. This makes a pleasant drink. A pint or half a pint of milk added to 
the rice water, before it is taken from the fire, gives a nourishing food suita- 
ble for cases of diarrhea. Sago, tapioca, barley, or cracked corn can be pre- 
pared in the same manner. * t». -x -jt, -x 

Beef Tea.— Take a pound of juicy lean beef and mince it. Put it with its 
juice into an earthen vessel containing a pint of tepid water, and let the 
whole stand for one hour. Slowly heat to boiling point, and let boil for 
three minutes. Strain liquid through a colander, and stir in a little salt. 
If preferred, a little pepper or allspice may be added. 

Mutton Tea may be prepared in the same way. It makes an agreeable 
change when the patient has become tired of beef tea,. 

Raw Beef for Children.— Take half a pound of juicy beef, free from any 
fat; mince it very finely; then rub it into a smooth pulp either in a mortar 
or with an ordinary potato-masher, and press it through a fine sieve. Spread 
a little oat upon a plate and sprinkle over it some salt, or some sugar if the 
child prefers it. Give it alone or spread upon a buttered slice of stale bread. 
It makes an excellent food for children with dysentery. 



THE ARTS OF THE TOH^ET. 



Beauty and health constitute a royal inheritance. The child born with 
such a heritage, and brought up by a mother who has the good sense to 
discard soothing syrups, narcotics and cordials, and carefully trains up to 
cleanly habits, proper exercise, plenty of air and sunshine, and wholesome 
food, starts in life with a capital that will in the long run tip the balance 
against the largest fortune in dollars. To keep health and beauty, or to 
restore it when lost, it is necessary to observe the laws of health, discarding 
quackery and panaceas of all kinds as superstitions, and inventions of 
the devil. Pure air and plenty of it, free sunshine and plenty of it, are 
better restoratives than all the patent medicines under the sun. Too often 
the doctor brings the medicine only to have the medicine bring the doctor 
again. The sunlight will give a lady's cheek a fresher tinge and a more 
delicate complexion than all the French powders and rouge in Paris. 

For the Hair.— Wash in cold sage-tea. 

Camphor— put in drawers or trunks will keep away mice. 

The Neck.— Too tight coll ars and neckerchiefs are apt to produce perma- 
nent swelling of the throat. 

Cocoa Butter.— Apply, at night, to face and hands, and wash off in the 
m-orning. Tliis is excellent for the skin, and keeps it soft and clear. 

To Clean Light Kids.— Put the glove on the hand, and rub thoroughly 
with white corn-meal, using a piece of cotton flannel. 

To KEEP Pearls Brilliant.— Keep in common, dry magnesia, instead of 
the cotton wool used in jewel cases, and they will never lose their brilliancy. 

Tonic for the Hair.— Ounce best castor-oil, two ounces each of French 
brandy and bay rum; scent with rosemary and rose-geranium. 

To Cure Chilblains. — Soak feet for fifteen minutes in warm water, put 
on a pair of rubbers, without stockings, and go to bed. 

Cement for Jet. — Use shellac to join, and then smoke the joints to make 
them black. 

Mother's Marks— should never be interfered with, except by the advice 
of a physician. 

Tetter or Ringworm— of the face is caused by a disordered stomach, 
and must be cured by proper diet. 

Pimples— are caused by improper diet, and can never be cured except by 
correcting the habits. Cosmetics only injure. 

To Restore Color to Kid Shoes.— Mix a small quantity of good polish 
blacking with the white of an egg. 

Hair Oil. — Two tea-spoons each of castor oil, ammonia and glycerine; 
add alcohol enough to cut the oil, and put in a four-ounce bottle half full of 
rain-water. Shake before using. 

Black Heads.— To remove "black heads " in the face, place over the black 
sjpot the hollow end of a watch-key, and press firmly. This forces the foreign 
substance out, so that it may be brushed off, and is a cure. 



THE ARTS OF THE TOILET. 



485 



To Keep off Mosquitoes.— Rub exposed parts with kerosene. The odor is 
not noticed after a few minutes, and children especially are much relieved 

^Vhe Breath.— Nothing makes one so disagreeable to others as a bad breath. 
It is caused by bad teeth, diseased stomach, or disease of the nostrils. 
Neatness and care of the health will prevent and cure it. 

The Skin and Complexion.— Washing in cool, but not excessively cold, 
water, and general cleanliness, keeps the skin healthy and the complexion 
clear 

Ivory Blacking for Shoes. — Four ounces ivory-black, three ounces 
coarsest sugar, one table-spoon sweet-oil, one pint small beer; mix well 
tofirether 

C\STOR-oiL FOR Shoes. — Take a tea-spoon of it and rub in thoroughly 
by a fire. Do this when the shoes are new, and several times afterwards, 

and they will last twice as long. , , , ^ c ^ 

D\NDRUFF.— One ounce flour of sulphur to one quart of water. Shake 

well at intervals, for a few hours, and, when settled, saturate the head with 

the clear liquid every morning. ^ ^ , v •„ 

For Chapped Hands, Face and Lips.— Ten drops carbolic acid m one 

ounce glycerine ; apply freely at night. Pure mutton tallow is also ex- 

cellent 

Cologne Water.— One quart alcohol, three drachms oil lavender, one 
<irachm oil rosemary, three drachms oil bergamot, three drachms essence 

lemon, three drops oil cinnamon. rr. ^ ^.i, ^o-<- 

CoRPULENCY.— An excess of fat is a disease. To reduce the excess, eat 
little or no butter, fat meat, gravies, sugar, vegetables, or other articles 
containing large amounts of starch or sugar. 

Dandrl^ff in the Hair. —There is no simpler nor better remedy for this 
vexatious appearance (caused by a dryness of the skin) than a wash of cam- 
phor and borax— an ounce of each put into a pint and a half of cold water, 
and afterwards rub a little pure oil into the scalp. , , ^ „ . , 

Moth P\tches— may be removed from the face by the following remedy: 
Into a pint bottle of rum put a table-spoon of flour of sulphur. Apply 
this to the patches once a day, and they will disappear in two or three 
Tveeks 

Boston Burnett Powder for the Face— Five cents worth of bay rum, 
five cents worth of magnesia snow-flake, five cents worth of bergamot, 
five cents worth of oil of lemon ; mix in a pint bottle and fill up with 

rain-water. . • • ± '^^ 

To Cle\n Jewelry.— Any gold jewelry that an immersion m water will 
not injure, can be beautifully cleaned by shaking it well in a bottle nearly 
full of warm soap-suds to which a little prepared chalk has been added, and 
afterwards rinsing it in clear, cold water, and wiping it on a towel. 

Moles —To remove, moisten a stick of nitrate of silver, touch the moles, 
and they will turn black and sore, and soon they will dry up and fall 
off" of themselves. If they do not entirely go, repeat. It is better, however, 
never to attempt their removal without consulting a physician. 

Warts.— Wash with water saturated with common washing soda, and let 
dry without wiping; repeat frequently until they disappear. Or pass a pin 
through the wart, and hold one end of it over the flame of a candle or lamp 
until the wart fires bv the heat, and it will disappear. 

Stains on the Hand»— from nitrate of silver, may be removed by a solu- 
tion of chloride of lime. Fruit stains are removed by washing the hands 
without soap, and holding them over the smoke of burning matches or sul- 
phur. . , _ , 

To Remove Sunburn.— Scrape a cake of brown Windsor soap to a pow- 
der add one ounce each of eau de Cologne and lemon-juice ; mix well and 
form into cakes. This removes tan, prevents hands from chopping, and 
makes the skin soft and white. 



486 



THE ARTS OF THE TOILET. 



Cold Cream for Chapped Lips. —One-half ounce spermaceti twentv 
grains white wax, two ounces pure oil of sweet ^hnon™,Touncelu^ 
glycerine SIX drops oil of rose; melt first three ingredients to-ether and 
when coohng, add the glycerine and oil of rose, stirring und? cold ' ' 

Bad BREATH.-Bad breath, from catarrh, foul stomach, or bad teeth may 
be temporarily relieved by diluting a little bromo chloralum with eight or en 
parts of water, and using it as a gargle, and swallowing a few drops just 

fun wiflTsf a longtr^ "^^''^ ^ ^ --'^ 

Mi^^'o"p?hpr h'.u"'''^'' removed from the fingers in the following manner: 
Mix together half an ounce of cream tartar and half an ounce of powdered 
annear A.T^''^ ) solution of this to the fingers, and the stain^vm 5fs 

nnn! .^f / 1 sulphuric acid niay be used, but care should be taken that 
none of it touches any fabric, as the acid will destroy it 

Flesh \\ orms — Black specks on the nose disfigure the face. Remove bv 
rSft'^! TT^;- ^'r^ T^^^"' ^'^^^^ ^ applying with 

L?/nv nf ^ / ^^'^n ""'^^^ ^'^^^^^^ ^'^^^^^'^^^ half an ounce of 

liquoi of potash. Or press out by putting the hollow end of a watch-key 

Lips OR Hands Chapped by cold weather or wind, should be rubbed with 
glycerine genera ly when about to be exposed to the air, or rubbed with 
honey after washing. Never kiss the lips of persons not in health, as dis- 
ease IS sometimes contracted in this way, as well as bv the use of towels 
cups or tumblers used by unhealthy persons. ^ 

«nH^«inM^'''V~^^'' ""^"^^ magnesia, two quarts each of soft water 

and alcohol, one ounce oil of bay. Dissolve magnesia in rain-water then 
ciifnn V /l^^^^'^if Wmp filtering paper in fo?m of a funnel, and filter 
carefully through into a bottle and cork tightly. When used, dilute with 
rain-water to whatever strength desired. ' 

Leanness-Is caused generally by lack of power in the digestive organs 
to digest and assimilate the fat-producing elements of food. First restore 
digestion, take plenty of sleep, drink all the water the stomach will bear in 
the morning on rising, take moderate exercise in the open air, eat oat-meal 
cracked wheat, Graham mush, baked sweet apples, roasted and broiled 
beef, cultivate jolly people, and bathe daily. 

.^fl^^i^^'^r.r ^''^^~J^''?. ^^^^ ^'^liaving only increases the 

strength of the hair, and all depilatories are dangerous and sometimes dis- 
hgure the face. The only sure plan is to spread on a piece of leather equal 
parts of galbanura and pitch plaster, lay it on the Iiair as smoothly as pos- 
sible, let It remain three or four minutes, then remove it with the hair^ 
root and branch This is severe but eff-ective. Kerosene will also remove 
them. If sore after using, rub on sweet-oil. 

The Face.— To wash properly, fill basin two-thirds full with fresh soft 
water, dip face m the water and then the hands ; soap the hands well and 
rub with a gentle friction over the face; dip the face in water the second 
time and rinse off thoroughly, wiping with a thick but soft towel. Pure 
soaps do not irritate the skin. The best are castile, curd, glycerine and other 
neutral soaps. Medicated or highly colored or perfumed soaps should never 
be used. 

Food.— A good complexion never goes with a bad diet. Strong coffee hot 
bread and butter heated grease, highly spiced soups, meats or game, hot 
drinks, alcoholic liquors, fat meats, are all damaging to its beauty. Strong 
tea used daily, will after a time give the skin the color and appearance of 
leather. Coffee affects the skin less but the nerves more, and a healthy 
nervous system is necessary to beauty. Late suppers, over-eating at meals 
eating between meals, the use of candies, sweetmeats, preserves, ete., pro^ 
duce pimples and blotches. ^ ^ r 

The HANDs.—The use of gloves, especially kids, help to preserve the soft- 
ness ot the hands. Cleanliness and sprinkling with orris-root counteracts 



THE ARTS OF THE TOILET. 



487 



excessive perspiration. Warts are removed by steeping the hands in warm 
water for half an hour, and then paring away the white and insensible sur- 
face. The nails should be cut frequently, always Ih oval shape. The nail- 
brush should be full and soft. It should be rubbed on a cake of soap and 
then used vigorously. Biting nails is a bad habit. To break it up, in chil- 
dren, dip the ends of the lingers in a solution of aloes. 

The Nose. — Excessive wiping, snufhng, and blowing, especially in chil- 
dren, deforms the nose, and should be practiced only when necessary for 
cleanliness. A nose leaning to one side, caused by wiping in one direction, 
may be cured by using the handkerchief with the other hand, or by wear- 
ing occasionally an instrument surgeons employ for that purpose. Large, 
fleshy noses are reduced by wearing at night a contrivance which com- 
presses the artery that supplies the nose. Red noses become so by exposure 
to heat or the sun, by alcoholic drinks, or by a debility of the blood-vessels 
of the skin. The latter cause is removed by gentle friction and cold bathing 
of the fe»t. 

The Bath — Not only promotes cleanliness, but is a tonic. The skin does 
one-third of the work of breathing, and if the myriad of pores are closed, 
the lungs are overburdened, or else the work is left undone. The tonic 
effect is caused by the contraction of the surface blood-vessels, driving the 
blood back to the larger blood-vessels and the heart, bringing on a reaction 
which rushes the blood back to the skin, causing a glow, freer respiration 
and more vigorous action of the whole muscular system. A sponge or 
hand bath are the simplest forms, and should be taken in a moderately 
warm room. As a rule, the more rapidly a bath is taken the better, and it 
should always be followed by friction with the hand or with a not too rough 
towel. 

The Ear. — The outer ear should be well cleansed and the passage wiped 
out daily with a rag on the end of the little finger, but nothing should be 
inserted further. The insertion of a pin, or any hard substance, frequently 
ruptures the ear. When cleansing is necessary on account of accumulation 
of wax by cold, or other cause, it should be done by syringing with warm 
water, having dropped in two or three drops of glycerine the night before 
to soften the substance to be removed. This often cures sudden deafness. 
Cotton-wool stuffed into the ear is injurious and is seldom necessar3\ In 
conversing with deaf persons, it is important to remember that clearness, 
distinctness, and a musical tone of voice is understood much more easily 
than a loud tone. 

Teeth. — Cracking nuts, biting thread, eating hot food, especially bread 
and pastry raised with soda, verj^ cold drinks, alternate contact with cold 
and hot substances, highly seasoned food, alcoholic liquors and tobacco, 
metal toothpicks, and want of cleanliness, are injurious to teeth. After 
eating, the mouth should be rinsed with lukewarm water, and such pieces 
of food as are not thus washed away removed by a quill toothj^ick. Tooth- 
brushes should be elastic and moderately hard. Those with hairs not too 
close together are best and most durable. A brush that is too hard may be 
permanently softened by dipping in hot water. Rub up and down as 
w^ell as across the teeth. . Teeth should be often examined by a competent 
dentist. 

Collars that do not Fit. — Few gentlemen have philosophy enough to 
endure an ill-fitting collar with patience, but not many understand why they 
do not fit. The fact is, the laundress stretcbes them the wrong way. Damp 
linen is very pliable, and a good pull will alter a fourteen-inch into a fifteen- 
inch collar in the twinkling of an eve. She ouaht to stretch tliem crosswise, 
and not lengthwise. Then, in straightening out shirt-bosoms, she makes 
another mistake of the same sort. They also ought to be pulled crosswise in- 
stead of lengthwise, particularly in the neigbborhood of the neck. A length- 
wise pull draws the front of the neckband somewhat directly under your 
chin, where it was never meant to go ; and, of course, that spoils the fit of 



488 



THE ARTS OF THE TOILET. 



your collar. With the front of the neckband an inch too high, and the col- 
lar an inch too long, you have a most undesirable combination. 

Cutting Teeth.— The time the first teeth make their appearance varies, 
but the following dates approximate the time : Central incisors from five to 
■eight months after birth ; lateral incisors from seven to ten : first molars from 
twelve to sixteen ; cuspids, or eye-teeth, from fourteen to twenty ; second mo- 
lars from twenty to thirty-six. The first teeth sliould be protected from de- 
cay as far as possible by careful cleaning daily ; if decay makes its appear- 
ance, the cavity should be promptly filled, and the tooth saved until dis- 
placed by the permanent teeth. About the sixth year, the first molars of 
the permanent teeth make their appearance. They are generally supposed to 
belong to the lirst or milk-teeth, and are frequently lost for w^ant of care. 
A little more attention given to the first teeth would save parents and chil- 
•dren sleepless nights and suffering. 

The Eyes.— Damp, foggy weather, the reflection of the bright sunshine, 
intense cold, dusty wind, reading on cars in motion, reading by gas or lamp- 
light when the light falls directly on the eyes, sitting before a glowing fire, 
wearing of glasses when not needed, w^earing veils, and all indulgences that 
weaken the nervous system, injure the eyes. The most pleasing light for 
work is from a northern exposure. A shade that protects the eyes from the 
light that falls on paper, book or work is an advantage. The light should 
not come from difllerent points, but that from behind the worker is best. 
A very weak or very bright light should be equally avoided. Diseases of 
the eye are often the result of general weakness, and in such cases local 
treatment has little effect. In fitting glasses to the eye great care should be 
taken to adjust the lens to the eye with accuracy. Crown glass is preferable 
to flint, on account of its superior hardness, its entire want of color, and 
its non-decomposition of light. Scotch pebbles are unobjectionable except 
as to cost. 

Dress. — The first object of dress is protection of the body, second to en- 
hance and bring out its beauty. Dress wiiicli does not enhance the beauty 
of the wearer, or which attracts attention from the wearer to itself, is out 
of taste. To be in correct taste it must be "becoming," and in this sense 
dressing is an art worthy of the attention and study of the most intellec- 
tual and accomplished w^oman. The beauty of dress, to a cultivated eye, 
does not lie in its money value, but in its perfection in detail and per- 
fect adaptation to the wearer and the occasion for which it is intended. 
Any simpleton in petticoats, w^ho has plenty of money, can order her 
olothes from Worth, in the latest Paris styles, but some quiet woman, with 
brains and taste, in simpler costume, will be sure to outshine her in 
" society." Low-necked dresses, dragging skirts, corsets and stays, pad- 
dings, heavy skirts which rest on the hips, heavy veils, high-heeled boots 
and every other unphysiological abomination in dress, mars beauty and de- 
stroys health. 

Freckles. — Grate horse-radish fine : let it stand a few hours in buttermilk, 
then strain and use the wash night and morning. Or, squeeze the juice of a 
lemon into half a goblet of water and use the same way. Most of the reme- 
dies for freckles are poisonous, and can not be used with safety. Freckles 
indicate a defective digestion, and consist in deposits of some carbonaceous 
or fatty matter beneath the skin. The diet sliould be of such a nature that 
bowels and kidneys will do their duty. Daily bathing, with much friction, 
should not be neglected, and the Turkish bath taken occasionally, if con- 
venient. The juice of a lemon, in wiiich there is as much sugar dissolved as 
the juice will hold in solution, is an excellent remedy for freckles. This 
should be applied with a camel' s-hair brush several times daily, until they 
disappear. It must be understood that all acids are astringents in their 
nature, and their too frequent use is as injurious as many apparently more deleteri- 
ous cosmetics ; for, by too frequent and violent contraction of the pores, they 
become overworked, and finallj^ refuse to respond to the action of any appli- 



THE ARTS OF THE TOILET. 



489 



'Cation ; wrinkles result, and are generally ineradicable, except after a tedi- 
ous dietetic and medical course of treatment. 

Teeth. — Many, while attentive to their teeth, do more injury than good 
by two much officiousness, daily applying some dentifrice, or tooth-powder, 
often impure and injurious, and rubbing them so hard as not only to injure 
the enamel by excessive friction, but also to hurt the gums even more than 
by a toothpick. Tooth-powders advertised in newspapers are to be suspected, 
as some of them are not free from corrosive ingredients. Charcoal (which 
whitens the teeth very nicely), pumice-stone, cuttle-fish, and similar sub- 
stances, are unfit for use in tooth-powders, as all are to a certain extent in- 
soluble in the mouth, and are forced between the margin of the gums, form- 
ing a nucleus for a deposit. Below will be found a few good formulas for 
dentifrices: Tliree and one-half pounds of cretd preparata, one pound each of 
powdered borax, powdered orris-root and white sugar, and two ounces car- 
damom seeds; flavor with wintergreen, rose or jasmine. If color is desired, 
use one pound of rose-pink and as much less of creta preparata. Tooth- 
powders should be thoroughly triturated in a wedgewood mortar and finely 
bolted. The following is a simple and cheap preparation, and is pretty good. 
Take of prepared chalk and fine old Windsor soap pulverized well in pro- 
portion of about six parts of the former to one of the latter. Soap is a very 
beneficial ingredient of tooth-powder. 

The Hair. — Professor Erasmus Wilson, of London, who is authority on 
the subject, condemns the washing of hair; but advises that it should be 
kept clean by brushing, this being a more effective stimulant than water. 
In cases of ordinary falling out of the hair, he prescribes the following: 
Liquid ammonia, almond oil, and chloroform, of each one part, diluted 
with five parts of alcohol or spirits of rosemary, which can be made fragrant 
by the addition of a drachm of the essential oil of lemons. The head should 
imdergo a thorough friction with the hair-brush, after which the lotion may 
be applied. It may be diluted, if necessary, and can be applied daily or 
otherwise. 

For removing scurf, he advises a lotion of borax and glycerine, two 
drachms of each to eight ounces of distilled water. This is cooling, and 
allays dryness of the skin. 

In cases of baldness, a lotion of the following can be used with effect: 
Camphor, ammonia, chloroform and aconite, in equal parts, to be rubbed 
on the bare place daily, or twice a day. 

A barber recommends ladies to have their hair shampooed once a month. 
This will bring out the natural luster, soften it, clear it of dust, and rob it 
of that musty smell which comes of having long hair wound up closely for 
any length of time. It will also remove that itching of the head which some 
ladies find so troublesome. 

For Complexion. — Blanch one-fourth pound best Jordan almonds, slip off 
the skin, mash in a mortar, and rub together with best white soap, for fifteen 
minutes, adding gradually one quart rose-water, or clean fresh rain-water 
may be used. Wlien the mixture looks like milk, strain through fine mus- 
lin. Apply, after washing, with a soft rag. To whiten the skin, and remove 
freckles and tan, bathe three times a day in a preparation of three Cjuarts 
water, one quart alcohol, two ounces cologne, and one of borax, in propor- 
tion of two tea-spoons mixture to two table-spoons soft water. Bathing the 
face in pure buttermilk, clear whey, sour milk, new or sweet milk, is sooth- 
ing and healing after walking, riding, driving, rowing or sailing. Do not 
plunge the face into cold water, neither dash the water over the face when 
suffering from sunburn or exposure to wind or water; the sudden shock is 
not only injurious to the whole sj^stem, but has been known to permanently 
deface the complexion by a species of tanning which left a brown or yellow 
tinge impossible to efface. 

Queen Bess Complexion Wash. — Put in a vial one drachm of benzoin gum 
in powder, one drachm nutmeg-oil, six drops of orange-blossom tea, or 

31 



490 



THE ARTS OF THE TOILET. 



apple-blossoms put in half pint rain-water and boiled down to one tea- 
spoonful and strained, one pint of sherry wine. Bathe tlie face morning 
and night: will remove all flesh-worms and freckles, and give a beautiful 
complexion. Or, put one ounce of powdered gum of benzoin in pint of 
whisky ; to use, put in water in wash-bowl till it is milky, allowing it to 
dry without wiping. This is perfectly harmless. 

The Hair. — Combs of tortoise-shell, bone, or rubber, with not very sharp 
teeth, should be used. Sharp teeth injure the seal]) and })roduce dandrun. 
Two brushes, one hard, to clean the hair and scalp, and tlie other soft, to 
smooth and polish, are best. Clean brushes by rubbing them with bran, or 
wash with one part ammonia and two of water. Combing or brushing should 
be done in the natural direction of the hair, and never against it. In the 
proper way it can not be brushed too much. To keep the scalp clean wash 
in tepid soft water with a little pure soap in it, rinse in ptire water, dry with 
towels and then in the sun or by the fire. Oily hair may be washed once a 
week, light hair less often. Some occupations require that it should be 
washed much oftener. All preparations for the hair are more or less injuri- 
ous. Healthy hair has enough oil of its own, and the application of foreign 
oil destroys its vitality. Preparations containing alcohol fade hair and 
make it brittle. The only time when oil is admissable is after washing. 
The best preparation is one part of glycerine to three of rose-water. Pow- 
ders made of starch, when used, must be washed out of the hair to prevent 
injury. Those made of colored glass are very injurious, cutting and other- 
wise damaging the hair. At night, the hair should be loosened and left 
free. Night-caps are a relic of barbarism. Hair dyes are very injurious, 
as they all contain more or less sugar of lead, nitrate of silver, and other 
ingredients, which affect the brain, produce paralysis, inflammation of the 
eyes, and impairment of sight. Gray hairs are an indication that the hair- 
producing organs are weakening. When found they should be cut down to 
the healtliy part, and the head should be exposed as much as possible, ex- 
cept in the middle of the day, to the sun and air. When hair falls out, it 
Indicates a disease of the scalp. To cure, dip the head twice a day in cold 
w^ater and rub with a brush until a glow is produced. In case the hair is too 
long to wet brush until a glow is produced, and then rub into the roots a 
wash made of three drachms of pure glycerine and four ounces of lime- 
water. 

The Feet. — The largest pores of the body are located in the bottom of the 
feet. For this reason the feet should be frequently and thoroughly washed, 
and the stockings changed often. If great cleanliness is not observed, these 
great pores become absorbent, and the poisons given off are taken back into 
the system. The nails ought to be cut squarely. Blisters may be prevented 
by rubbing the feet, after washing, with glycerine. Bunions are caused by 
wearing shoes too tight or too short. They are difficult to get rid of, but may 
be alleviated by wearing easy-fitting shoes, poulticing and putting a rubber 
ring around the spot. C'orns, which are caused by a continued pressure on 
the foot, may be prevented by wearing woolen stockings and shoes that fit 
well. They are known as hard and soft, but their difference is entirely 
owing to locality. If a corn is situated between the toes, where it is kept moist 
by perspiratiom it is of the soft variety ; but, if located on the outside of the 
toe, where it could get no moisture, it would necessarily be hard. They are 
produced by pressure or friction, and are simply a protective growth thrown 
out for the"^purpose of preventing the tissues being injured. They are suffi- 
ciently painful at all times, but they are the most unbearable when an accu- 
mulation of pus takes place beneath them. The escape of this drop of pus 
is preveuted by the hardened and thickened cuticle, which must be poulticed 
or soaked in warm water, and then removed by a sharp-pointed knife. The 
entire corn can be taken out with a little care and patient work, without 
drawing a drop of blood. The application of caustics should be avoided in 
the treatment of corns, especially in old people, as fatal gangrenous inflam- 



THE ARTS OF THE TOILET, 



491 



mation may be the result. Temporary relief from a painful sore corn may 
readily be obtained by applying strong carbolic acid. Take the cork out of 
a small bottle of carbolic, and apply it (the cork) to the corn. Relief will 
come at once, and you will be enabled to walk with comparative comfort till 
you can find time to remove the corn with the knife. Hard corns may be 
treated as follows: Take a thick piece of soft leather or felt, cut a hole in the 
center. Upon going to bed at night, fill the hole in the center of the leather 
with a paste made of soda and soap ; wash it off in the morning and repeat 
the process for several nights, and the corn will be removed. Half a cran- 
berry, or a piece of lemon, V)ound on a corn will soon kill it 

Perfumery.— riie following recipes are of choice perfumes, and are made 
by compounding the articles in each recipe, and then adding as much dis- 
tilled water as can be mixed, and not, have it become mUky, which will vary from 
two to eight ounces, according to the perfume : then add deodorized alcohol 
until there are two quarts of perfumery : 

Essence Bouquet.— Four ounces extract musk, two of extract tube rose 
one drachm otto rose virgin, one and one-fourth drachm otto bergamot one- 
half drachm each otto neroli super and red-cedar wood, eight minims otto 
verbena (true), ten of bimento, three of patchoulv, twelve of English laven- 
der; add water and alcohol as above. 

Jockey Club.— Five ounces extract jasmine, twenty of extract orris seven 
of extract musk, one and one-half extract vanilla, one and one-half drachms 
each of otto rose virgin and santal flor, two and one-half otto bergamot and 
two of benzoic acid, forty minims otto neroli super ; water and alcohol as 
above. 

Pa^cAo?////.— Two^drachms each otto patchoulv and styrax, eight ounces 
each extract musk and orris, four of vanilla, and forty minims each santal 
flor and rose virgin : water and alcohol as above. 

Wood Violet.— Tv/elve ounces extract orris, two of tube rose, one of jas- 
mine, four of musk, two drachms otto of bergamot, one of English lavender 
ten minims verbena (true), twelve minims amygdala amar. (any druggist will 
have It), SIX minims coriander, and four minims sweet flag, and one and a 
half drachm benzoic acid; water and alcohol as above. 

West End.— Twelve ounces of extract orris, four extract of jasmine eight 
Of extract musk, four of extract cossia, one of extract styrax, three drachms 
^tto bergamot, one and one-half neroli super, and one each of otto rose vir- 
-gm, red-cedar wood (true) and benzoic acid ; water and alcohol as above 

Tube i^ose.— Twenty- four ounces extract tube rose, four of musk one of 
jasmine, one drachm otto rose virgin, two of benzoic acid, and ten minims 
)f otto neroli super; water and alcohol as above. 

StephanoUs.— Four ounces each extract cassia and tube rose, eight each 
)f musk and orris, two of jasmine, three of tonka, one drachm each otto rose 
rirgm and benz<jic acid, one half drachm otto neroli super; Avaier and alco- 
hol as above. 

Rondeletia. — One ounce otto English lavender, two each of musk and 
ranilla, four of orris, half ounce each otto cloves and bergamot, two drachms 
otto rose geraniuni (Turkey), one of benzoic acid, twenty minims true otto 
cinnamon, ten minims otto rose virgin, one of santal flor; water and alcohol 
as above. 

New-MownHay.—Tyfeniy-fiYe ounces extract tonka, six of musk, eight of 
orris, one of vanilla one drachm each extract styrax, bergamot and santal 
flor, and one and a half of benzoic acid, fifteen minims otto neroli super 
ten each of otto rose virgin, lavender (English) and patchouly, and six mini 
ims otto of cloves. 

>S'i77ipZe — garden perfumes are charming in linen when put away in 
drawers. To handkerchiefs the perfume is more delicate, and much more 
desirable than the stronger odors so freely used. Always preserve the 
trimmings of rose-geraniums, in envelopes, for such purposes, and lay in 
plenty of sweet clover when in blossom. 



ACCIDENTS AND SUDDEN SICKNESS. 



It is no longer considered a mark of the highest type of the feminine 
mind to faint away at the smallest fright, and to sink into helplessness at 
the first appearance of danger. Indeed, self-possession in emergencies is 
evidence of a clear brain, which, at the critical moment, asserts its supremacy 
over physical weakness, and takes command of the demoralized forces; be- 
sides, fright and confusion are a confession of ignorance as well as want of 
self-control. Those who know exactly what to do in emergencies rarely be- 
come panic-stricken. And it is particularly important for women, who are, 
doubtless, constitutionally more timid than men, to fortify themselves against 
danger, by learning wliat to do in such accidents and emergencies as are 
likely to occur in the life of every one. It would prove a rare case, indeed, 
if such knowledge did not, at least once in a life-time, enable the possessor 
of it to save a valuable life, perhaps one infinitely dearer to her than her 
own. Of course, within the limits of such an article as is permissible here, 
only a few hints can be given, rather to suggest further investigation than to 
be a complete guide. 



A Life-preserver. — A felt or silk hat, held so as to keep the crown full 
of air, will sustain a person above water for a great length of time. 

Panics. — If in a ])ublic hall in a panic, keep your seat; even in case of 
fire the chance of life is greater if free from the crowd. 

Stings of Insects— Are relieved by the application of ammonia, or com- 
mon table salt, well rubbed in, or a slice of an onion, to the part._ 

Runaways. — In all runaways it is safer to remain in the vehicle, and to 
stop with it, than to jump while the horse is running. The vehicle helps to 
break the shock of the final stop. 

Poisonous Wounds. — Wounds by wliich poison has been carried into the 
system, require instant treatment. The wound must be burned out by a 
stick of lunar caustic, or by inserting a large, red-hot nail. 

Burns by Alkalies, such as lime, caustic potash, soda, ammonia, etc., are 
stopped in their progress by applying vinegar, lemon-juice, or other dilute 
acid ; they must be then treated like other burns. 

Burns from Acids, such as oil of vitriol and aqua fortis, may be checked 
by the free application of water or handfuls of moist earth. The first dilutes 
the acid, and the second contains alkali enough to neutralize the acid. 

Chokinct. — A piece of food lodged in the throat may sometimes be pushed 
down with the finger, or removed with a hair-pin quickly straightened and 
hooked at the end, or by two or three vigorous blows on the back between 
the shoulders. 

Fracture. — Send at once for a physician, and simply make the patient as 
comfortable as possible. If he is to' be conveyed to some distance, the frac- 
tured part should be supported in its natural position by handkerchiefs 
loosely tied. Allow no more handling than is absolutely necessary. 

Chilblains— Are the result of a chilling of the part. To cure, keep 

(492) 



ACCIDENTS AND SUDDEN SICKNESS, 



498 



away from the fire, and at night, before going to bed, wash in cold water, or 
rub in snow, and apply the compound resin ointment, made by all druggists, 
with a little oil of turpentine added to it. 

Swallowing Pieces of Broken Glass, Pins, etc. — By no means take a 
purgative. Rather partake freely of suet pudding, or any solid farinaceous 
food, and it is possible that both may pass awav together without iniurv 
being done. 

Bites of Serpents.— When bitten by a rattlesnake, or other poisonous 
serpent, pinch the skin, and, if the wound can be reached, suck out all the 
blood possible; if the skin of the lips and mouth is sound, no harm will be 
done. Wliisky or l)randy should, however, be administered freelv, to in- 
toxication. 

P\\inting.— Debility of the nervous system favors fainting. The head 
should be kept low; and if the patient faints in a chair, the simplest treat- 
ment is to grasp the back of it and depress it until the lloor is reached, while 
another holds the knees so as to prevent slipping off the side. The patient 
will usually recover by the time the head has reached the floor. 

Shock from Cold Water.— Prostration from drinking or bathing in cold 
water while exhausted by heat or exercise should be treated as described for 
shock from other causes. Cold water should be taken in small quantities 
when the body is heated and exhausted, and a cold bath is often fat^il under 
such circumstances. 

Epileptic P'its.— In these there is nothing which a by-stander or friend 
can do, except to keep out of reach such articles as may injure the patient 
during the convulsive movements; to loosen the clothing- about the neck and 
throat, and to assist to some place of safety when the semi-conscious state 
returns. Other convulsions are treated in the same manner. 

Lightning. — If the person shows no signs of life, strip and dash the body 
with cold water, dry and place in bed with bottles of hot water at the pit of 
the stomach and extremities, keeping up artificial respiration until the nat- 
ural breathing is restored ; a tea-spoon of brandy in a table-spoon of water 
may be given every few minutes. Burns from iightning should be treated 
like burns from any other cause. 

Breaking Through Ice. — In a.ssisting persons who have broken through 
ice, get a long pole, or stick, or board, to distribute the weight over a greater 
surface of ice. In attempting to get out of water upon the ice, after liaving 
fallen in, the best way is to approach it sidewise, and roll out rather than 
to attempt to raise the body up by the arms alone, as the weight is more 
widely distributed. 

HAN(iiN(i. — Death is from the same cause as in drowning. Cut down the 
body without allowing it to fall, place on face, press back tongue with finger 
to allow any accumulation to escape from the mouth, place on the back, and 
treat as directed for the drowned. If body is still warm after the removal 
of clothing, stand off six feet and dash several times with a bowl of cold 
water, the face, neck, and chest. 

Burning-Houses. — When a house is on fire, close all the doors and pre- 
vent currents of air. If the fire could be entirely shut in, it would smother 
and die out. Th>^ check will give time to get help, or, at least, to remove 
furniture and make all lives secure. If up-stairs when the stairway l)elow 
is on fire, tear clothing to make cords to let yourself down by. If a room is 
full of snu^ke and fiame, crawl on the floor, as the lower air is the colder and 
more free from smoke. 

FoREKiN Bodies in the Ear. — Take the head of the child between the 
knees, face downward, and inject a stream of warm water into the ear, hold- 
ing the nozzle of the syringe outside, so as to allow the foreign bodj^ to come 
out with the water. Probing, with any substance whatever, is very dan- 
gerous, and may inflict permanent injury. When the above plan does not 
succeed, call a surgeon. Kill insects that get into the ear by pouring in 
sweet-oil or glycerine, which drowns and brings them to the surface. 



494 



ACCIDENTS AND SUDDEN SICKNESS, 



Foreign Body ix Nostril.— Children often push foreign hodies up the 
nostrih To remove it, make the child draw a full breath, and tlien, closing 
the other nostril ^ith the finger, and the mouth with the hand, expel the air 
from the lungs by a sharp blow on the back. If it can not be removed in 
this wav, compress the nostril above it to prevent its going up any further, 
and hook it out with the bent end of a wire or bodkin. If this fails, call a 
surgeon. 

Freezing.— Keep the frozen person, or part, away from the heat. If the 
person is insensible, take him to a cold room, remove clothing, rub with snow 
or clothes wrung out of ice-water. The cold friction should be kept up for 
some time ; and wlien the frozen parts show signs of life, the patient should 
be carefully dried and put into a cold bed in a cold room, and artificial res- 
piration used until the natural is restored; and tlien brandy, beef-tea, and 
ginger-tea administered. The patient must be brought by degrees into th« 
warmer air. Parts frozen should be treated by the same rule. 

Bites of Dogs.— The only safe remedy in case of a bite from a dog sus- 
pected of madness, is to burn out the wound thoroughly with a red-hot iron, 
or with lunar caustic, for fully eight seconds, so as to destroy the entire sur- 
face of the wound. Do this as soon as possible, for no time is to be lost. 
Of course it will be expected that the parts touched with the caustic will 
turn black. If, unfortunately, it should chance that any one is bitten by a 
dog that is said to be mad, it is worth while to cliain the animal up, instead 
of shooting it instantly, for if it should turn out that it is not mad— and a 
false alarm is frequently raised— the relief to the minds of all concerned 
is indescribable. 

Foreign Bodies in the Eye.— The particle almost invariably lodges 
under the upper lid, adhering to it. If that lid is grasped by the thumb 
and finger, drawn outward and then downward, and then released, the lashes 
of the lower lid act as brush, and sweep off the intruder. If, however, it 
adheres to the eye-ball, it may be removed by rolling the upper lid over a 
knitting-needle, and holding it there in such a position as to expose the sur- 
face, when the particle can be removed by the corner of a handkerchief. 
Sometimes it may become imbedded in the membrane which covers the eye- 
ball, or eye-lid, and require the aid of a surgeon. Never use any of the eye- 
waters, lotions, or salves, advertised as popular. A particle of lime in the 
eye is very dangerous, and vinegar diluted with water should be applied at 
once; even when done immediately the eye will be seriously inflamed. 

Shock or Collapse from lightning, sudden and severe injuries, burns 
extending over a large extent of surface, or powerful emotions, produces 
something analogous to fainting. Place the patient flat on the back, with 
the head raised not more than an inch, and give a tea-spoon of brandy in 
a table-spoon of water, every minute for six or eight minutes. If the 
temperature of the body has been raised, and the action of the heart is 
restored, enough has been given. Application of heat to the stomach and 
extremities is useful. The nausea and vomiting that sometimes accompany 
it may be allayed by swallowing whole small chips of ice, split off by stand- 
ing a piece with grain upright and splitting off a thin edge with the point 
of a pin. Ammonia applied to the nostrils is often useful, and cologne on a 
handkerchief is sometimes of service. 

Punctl red Wounds need a pad at the surface to cause clotting of the blood 
in the wound, but are otherwise treated like cuts. If pain follows and in- 
flammation ensues, the i)ad must be removed to permit the results of the in- 
flammation to escape. Thorns or splinters, when run into the flesh, should 
be removed by cutting in far enough to get hold of and draw them out. 
Slivers under the nail, when not reached from the end, should be removed 
by scraping the nail thin, and cutting through it to the foreign body, and sa 
withdrawing it; the part should then be tied with a cloth wet with water, in 
which a few drops of laudanum have been mixed. A puncture, by a rusty 
nail or some such substance, of the finger, toe, hand, or foot, frequentll 



ACCIDENTS AND SUDDEN SICKNESS. 



495 



causes inflammation, and vet there is not room for the foreign matter left in 
the wound to escape through the tough skin, and lock-jaw results ; in all such 
cases the wound should be cut open to provide a way of escape for the blood, 
etc., and a piece of linen wet with laudanum inserted. Wounds from bruises 
and lacerations especially demand careful treatment, on the same general 
principles given above. , , -, 

Suffocation.— This often occurs from carbonic acid gas, or "choke-damp, 
on entering wells or old cellars; this gas being heavier than air, falls and 
rests at the bottom. Before entering such places, test by lowering a lighted 
candle; if the tlame is extinguished it is unsafe to enter until the gas has 
been removed, by throwing down a bundle of lighted shavings or blazing 
paper, suflflcient to cause a strong upward current. When a person is over- 
come by this gas, he must be immediately rescued by another, who must be 
rapidly lowered and drawn out, as he must do all while holding his breath; 
a large sack is sometimes thrown over the person who goes to the rescue. As 
soon as brought out, place the person on his back, bare the neck and throat, 
loosen clothing and strip as quickly as possible; if he has not fallen in the 
water, dash cold water freely over head, neck, and shoulders, standing off sct- 
eral feet and throwing it with force ; artificial respiration shoiild be used mean- 
time, as in case of drowning, with as little cessation as possible. If the per- 
son has fallen into the water when overcome by the gas, place in a warm bed, 
and use the means of artificial respiration vigorously. 

Suffocation from burning charcoal, from anthracite or bituminous coal, or 
from common burning gas, or the foul gases from drains and cess-pools, is 
treated as if from carbonic acid gas. 

Accidents in General.— The first and most important thing, after send- 
ing for a surgeon, when an accident has occurred, is to keep off the crowd. 
Ko one, except one or two in charge, should be allowed nearer than ten feet ; 
and the kindest thing a by-stander can do is to insist on such a space, and 
to select such persons as are willing to go for whatever is needed by the sur- 
geon or phvsician, so that there may be no delay, if any thing is needed. If 
there has been a "shock" from a fall or blow, although there may be no 
fracture or external injury, the person is "faint," and should be placed flat 
on the back, with the head, neck, and shoulders slightly raised; the limbs 
should be straightened out, so that the heart may act as easily as possible ; 
the cravat, collar, and clothing, if in the least tight, should be loosened. A 
sup of cold w^ater will bring reaction soon if the injury is slight; a tea-spoon 
of brandy, in a table-spoon of water, every two minutes, gentle friction to 
the extremities, a handkerchief wet with cologne-water held to the nostrils, 
a fan, if weather is hot, will all aid in restoring full consciousness. If 
thought best to remove the patient to his residence, or to a more favorable 
place for treatment, place on a stretcher, settee, or shutter, slippi^g him on 
gentlv, taking care that the body is supported along its whole length; throw 
a handkerchief over the face to prevent the unpleasant sensation of the 
staring crowd, and let the stretcher be borne by persons ot uniform gait, it 
possible. A policeman's services, if in a city, are invalmable in keeping ott 
a crowd. When a surgeon arrives, his directions will sufhce ^ 

Burns and Scalds.— First put the fire out. It the clothing is on fire 
throw the person on the ground and wrap in carpet, rug, or your coat, it 
nothing else is at hand. Begin wrapping at the neck and shoulders, and 
keep the flames away from the neck and face, so as to prevent breathing the 
hot air and consequent injury to the lungs. If prostration and shock or 
fainting is produced, a little brandy, repeated often until there is a revival 
of strength, should be given. A superficial burn covering a large surface is 
often more dangerous than a deeper one confined to less surface, it there is 
any cause for apprehension that the hot air has been inhaled, sencl tor a 
phvsician at once. If the burn is slight in character, apply the water-dress- 
ing by placing two or more thicknesses of old linen (from table-cloth or 
sheet) slightly dampened over a surface a little larger than the wound; 



496 



ACCIDENTS AND SUDDEN SICKNESS. 



fasten on by slips of sticking-plaster, or tie on with bandages, and keep it 
wet by frequent applications of water. When the })ain has moderated, a 
dressing of pure hog's-lard is one of the best. It nmy be purified, when 
doubtful, boiling in water until the salt and impurities have settled, and 
then set away to cool until the floating lard hardens ; this is gathered, placed 
in a bowl, set in hot water, and kept hot until all tlie ^vater in the lard has 
passed off, when it is ready for use. The common soda used for cooking 
purposes may be employed as a dressing. A thick layer should be spread 
over the part and covered with a light wet bandage, kee})ing it moist and 
renewing it wiien necessary. A good dressing for a slight Inirn or scald is 
the white of an egg, applied with a soft rag or brush, applying fresh as the 
first layer dries ; a lather of soap from a shaving-cup often allays pain, and 
keeps out the air. If so serious that a physician has been sent for, it is better 
not to apply any thing, as it may interfere with his examination and treat- 
ment of the case. In cases too severe for the mild treatment given above, 
send at once for a physician. 

Drowning. — Death is caused by cutting off tlie supply of fresh air from 
the lungs, so that the process of purification of the arterial blood ceases. 
Life is rarely restored after an immersion of five or six minutes, but recovery 
has been recorded after twenty minutes. Efforts to restore should be con- 
tinued for at least two hours, or until the arrival of a physician. What is 
done must be done quickly. The body should be recovered without loss of 
time, from the water, and laid face downward for a moment, while the tongue 
is pressed back by the finger to allow the escape of water or any other sub- 
stance from the mouth or throat (no water can ever by any possibility get 
into the lungs). This may be done while the body is being conveyed to the 
nearest house ; on arrival, strip off clothing, place on a warm bed, with head 
raised very little, if any, apply friction with the dry hands to the extremities, 
and heated flannels to the rest of the body. Now breathing must be artifi- 
cially restored. " Silvester's ready method " is most favored by physicians, 
and consists in pulling the tongue well forward, to favor the passage of air 
to the lungs, and then drawing the arms away from the sides of the body, 
and upward, so that they meet over the head, and then bringing them down 
until the elbows almost meet over the "pit of the stomach." These move- 
ments must be made, and persisted in, at the rate of sixteen to the minute. 
Another method is to place the body flat on the face, press gently on the 
back, turn body on its side or a little beyond, and then, turning back upon 
face, apply gentle pressure again, repeating at the rate of sixteen times a 
minute. As soon as vitality begins to return, a few drops of brandy, in a 
little water, may be administered, and, in a few minutes, some beef-tea or 
light nourishment. Persons at all weakened by debility, especially by any 
thing that affects the nervous system, or those recovering from sickness, or 
in the least indisposed, should never venture into water beyond their depth, 
as such conditions predispose to "cramp," against which the best swimmers 
are helpless. 

Sunstroke. — This is favored by intemperance, and by debility brought on 
by work in a heated atmosphere. Those who sleep in badly ventilated 
apartments are most subject to it. Most cases are preceded by pain in the 
Iiead, wandering thought and loss of mental control, disturbed vision, irri- 
tability, sense of pain, and weight at pit of stomach, and labored breathing. 
The skin is hot and dry, or covered with profuse pers])iration ; the face 
bluish; the breath rapid and short; and the action of the heart ''fluttering." 
In many instances the patient does not move an eyelid, from the beginning 
of the main attack until death ensues. 

Carry the person attacked at once to a cool, airy spot, in the shadow of a 
wall, or to a large room with a bare floor, remove clothing gently, place 
patient on the back, raise head two inches by a folded garment, dash entire 
body with water profusely, supplying basin with cold water from two buck- 
ets, one of which is fllled with water and finelj'^ pulverized ice while the other- 



ACCIDENTS AND SUDDEN SICKNESS. 



497 



is supi>lYing tlie water used by the attendant. Dash on water with force, pQV~ 
tic'uhirlyon head and chest. Two persons may also rub the entire body, par- 
ticularly the head, with a towel in wliich is wra]>i)ed pulverized ice. As soon 
as a decUnc in heat is noticed remove patient to a dry ])lace, and wipe dry. If 
heat comes on again when consciousness is restored, renew cold applications. 
As soon as the heat declines, artificial respiration must be resorted to, until 
the natural takes its place. There being real asphyxia, as in drowning, no- 
medicine is of use, and alcoholic stimulants should be carefully avoided. To 
prevent sunstroke, use no malt or alcoholic liquors, avoid overwork and ex- 
haustion, take plenty of sleep in a well-ventilated ro()m, loathe every night, 
avoid drinking large quantities of water, especially at meals, wear loose- 
fitting garments, protect the head with a covering that will shelter from the 
sun and yet permit free circulation of air over the scalp; a straw hat of loose 
texture, with a lining that may be wet when going out, and a broad brim to 
protect neck and shoulders, is best. 

Hemorrhages. — Bleeding from the nose may be stopped by lying flat on 
the back, with the head raised, and the hands held above it. The nose must 
be covered with a cloth filled with pounded ice, or wrung out of ice-water. 
The head .should never be held over a basin, as the position encourages bleed - 
ing. The blood may be received in a wet sponge. 

When any one coughs or spits up blood, the first thought is that it must be 
from the lungs. A slight knowledge of the characteristics of the blood from 
different parte that may come through the mouth will sometimes save much 
needless anxiety. 

Blood from the lungs is always bright red in color, because it has just been 
purified by contact with the air. It is frothy, mixed with mucus, in small 
quantity, and is usually coughed up. 

Blood from the stomach is dark red, almost black, is mixed with particles 
of food, comes in large quantities, and is vomited. 

Blood from the mouth and gums is of a red color and usually mixed with 
saliva. Unless it has first been swallowed, it is not vomited or coughed up. 

In hemorrhage from the lungs the head and shoulders must be raised. 
Some physicians recommend a table-spoonful of table salt to be given in a 
tumbler of water. It is always safe to give cracked ice. 

Bleeding from the stomach may be checked by the application of a mustard 
plaster over the stomach ; cracked ice should be given and the doctor sent 
for. 

In bleeding from wounds or recent amputation there are three things that 
may be done : 

First, press the finger or the hand over the blee<ling point. 

Second, press on the main artery supplying the wound, or, if this can not 
be found, apply a bandage as tightly as possible above the wound. An 
excellent tourniquet may be improvised by knotting a handkerchief loosely 
around the limb, thrusting a short stick through it and twisting it tight. 

The blood from an artery is bright red and comes in spurts with each beat 
of the heart, while that from the veins is a dark purplish color and flows in 
a steady stream. When the bleeding is from an artery, the pressure shouhl 
be applied between the wound and the heart; when from a vein, the limb 
must be compressed bevond the wound. 

Third, raise tlie part above the rest of the body, that the blood may drain 
out of it, and sux>port it on pillows. It should be bathed in ice-water and 
have ice wrapx)ed in cotton cloths laid on it. 

If faintness ensues, the sufferer should not be immediately roused, as this 
is nature's remedy, and acts by lessening the force and activity of the circula- 
tion. If any part of the body has been cut off, it should be cleaned of for- 
eign matter,* and at once replaced, wrapped in cotton to retain warmth, and 
a gentle pressure kept on it to retain it in place. Circulation is often restored 
and the union made complete. 



498 



ANTIDOTES TO POISONS. 



ANTIDOTES TO POISONS. 

The first thing to do is to cause their rejec tion by vomiting, to do whick 
place mustard mixed with salt on the tongue, or give large quantities of 
lukewarm water, or tickle the throat with a feather. These failing, instantly 
resort to active emetics, like tartar emetic, sulphate of copper, or sulphate 
of zinc. After vomiting has taken place with these, continue it if possible 
by copious draughts of warm water till the poison is entirely removed. Of 
course, if vomiting can not be induced, the stomach pump must be em- 
ployed, especially if arsenic or narcotics have been taken. A brief table, 
formulated as follows, may be useful for emergencies : 



roisoNs. 

Acids. 

Alkalies. 

Alcohol. 

Arsenic. 

Antimony. 

Baryta or Lime. 

Bismuth. 

Copper. 

Oases. 

Iodine. 

Creosote. 

Lead. 

Opium and other 

Narcotics. 
Phosphorus. 
Zinc 

Mad-dog Bite. 
Bite of Insect. 
Bite of Serpent. 



The foregoing are 
their antidotes. 



antidotes. 

Alkalies — Soap and milk, chalk, soda, lime-water. 

Vegetable Acids — Vinegar, oil in abundance. 

rominon salt, moderatelv. 

Send for the doctor and his stomach pump. 

Oak-bark, strong green tea. 

Epsom salts, oils, and magnesia. 

Whit^^s of eggs, sweet milk. 

Whites of eggs, or strong coffee. 

Cold douche, followed by friction. 

Starch, w^heat flour in water. 

White of eggs, sw^eet milk. 

Lemonade, strong, epsom salts. 

Emetics — Cold douche, exercise, and heat. 

Magnesia, in copious draughts. 
Whites of eggs, sweet milk. 

Apply fire in some form to the wound, thoFOUghly 

and immediately. 
Ammonia, applied freely. 

Same as for mad dog, followed by whisky to intoxi- 
cation. 

the more common and more important poisons and 



MEDICAL. 



When people fall sick they seem to lose what little common sense thej 
possessed when well. Men and women who are reasonably wise and rea- 
sonable in other matters, cherish the most absurd superstitions, and follow 
the advice of the most transparent quacks when it comes to disease and 
medicine. A little reflection will convince any reasonable person that no 
single luedicine will cure all diseases, indeed no medicine will cure the 
same disease in dilferent persons, and in different stages. Any candid 
physician will admit that the use of medicines by the most skillful and ex- 
perienced practitioner, is, to a great extent, an experiment. What is "one 
man's meat is another's poison," and even the best physician needs to know 
the constitution of the patient, and to study the symptoms of disease befort 
he can prescribe safely, to say nothing of curing the disease. And yet 
there are intelligent men and women who buy patent nostrums, and pour 
them down their throats, knowing nothing of the disease, or of the prob- 
able effect of the alleged remedy. For instance, a child has a cough and a 
"cough remedy" is purchased and dealt out. Now, there are many kinds 
of coughs. The cough may be "dry," or it may be "loose;" the symptoms 
may differ in various ways, and yet the " cough remedy " given for a *'dry" 
cough may be intended for a "loose" one, and so all the symptoms may 
be aggravated, perhaps, with a fatal result. The physician's advice and ex- 
perience is chiefly valuable to tell us what the disease is and the best pos- 
sible treatment for it It is dangerous in the extreme to administer any 
powerful remedy, or any medicine the nature and effect of which are not known, 
without the advice of some one who knows the disease and its probable effect. 
The household medicine chest should contain only simple remedies, the 
effect of which, at worst, can not be very injurious ; and in all dangerous 
or violent diseases a physician should be promptly called. 



For Colds, drink hot pennyroyal tea. 

Glycerine is excellent to rub on chafes, burns, or chapped hands or sun 

scalds 

For Burns.— Lime-water, olive-oil, and glycerine, equal parts; applied 
on lint. 

Liniment.— Three ounces each of tincture of opium, camphorated oil, and 
soap liniment. 

For Jaundice.— The yolk of an egg, raw or slightly cooked, is excellent 
food in jaundice. 

For Quinsy, gargle with water as hot as can be borne. This gives great 
relief even in severe cases. 

Liniment.— The common May-weed blossoms put in alcohol are much 
superior to arnica for the same use. 

To Check Vomiting— Give a tea-spoon of whole black mustard seed. A 
table-spoon mav be given in severe cases. 

(499) 



500 



MEDICAL. 



For Sick Headache. — Whenever the symptoms are felt coming on, drink 
a cupful of thorou^hwort or boneset-tea. 

For Stiff Joints. — Oil made by trying up common angle worms, is ex- 
cellent to ap})ly to sinews drawn up by sprains or disease. 

Pleurisy. — Oiled silk placed over the chest of those suffering fron^ 
pneumonia or pleurisy, will give great relief and hasten recovery. 

For Rni-:('MAT[SM. — To one pint alcohol, add one table-spooii pulverized 
potash, and a lump of gum-camphor the size of a walnut. Use as a liniment. 

Chronic Diaruikea is cured by drinking orange-peel tea; sweeten with 
loaf-sugar, and use as a common drink for twenty-four to thirty-six hours. 

To Stop Bleedinc4. — Auply wet tea-leaves, or scrapings of sole-leather to- 
a fresh cut and it will stoi) the bleeding, or apply a paste of hour and 
vinegar. 

To Stop Bleeding at the Xose. — Bathe the feet in very hot w^ater, drink- 
ing at the same time a pint of cayenne pepper tea, or hold both arms above- 
the head. 

For Dressing Cuts, Wounds or Sores. — Surgeon's solution of carbolic 
acid and pure glycerine mixed in equal parts, and applied on soft lint or 
linen cloth. 

Dirt in the Eye. — To remove specks of dirt from the eye, immerse the 
eye in cool water, then wdnk and roll the eyeball until the desired result is 
accomplished. 

Hoarseness. — It is said hoarseness may be relieved by using the white of 
an egg, thoroughly beaten, mixed with lemon-juice and sugar. Take a tea- 
spoonful occasionally. 

Remedy for Piles. — Mix a tea-spoon of sulphur wdth a tea-cup of milk, 
and take twice a day, morning and night, until improvement takes place ; 
then take occasionally. 

Wound fro.m Kusty Nail. — Smoke this or any inflamed wound over the 
fume of burning woolen cloth, wool or sugar, for fifteen minutes, and the 
pain will be taken out. 

For Sprains.— The white of an egg, and salt mixed to a thick paste is one 
of the best remedies for sprains, or bruises, or lameness, for man or beast. 
Rub well the part affected. 

To Prevent Sea-Sickness. — Make a pad of wool or horse hair, and bind 
over the stomach. Brandy and water, very weak, is the best remedy to 
allay the heat and irritation. 

A Valuable Liniment. — One ounce wormw^ood to one pint alcohol. Or, 
bruise the green stalks of wormwood, moisten with vinegar, and apply to 
the sprain. Good for man or beast. 

To Relieve Asthma.— Wet blotting-paper in strong solution of salt- 
petre, dry it, and burn a piece three inches square on a plate in sleeping- 
room, and it will alford (^uick relief. 

Manna and Milk. — Take a (piart of fresh skim milk, and boil in it one 
ounce of manna ; drinking this quantity cool, in small draughts, at intervals 
during the day, is good for consumptives. 

To Prevent Skin from Discoloring after a Bruise. — Apply immedi- 
ately, or as soon a^ possible, a little dry starch or arrow-root, moistened with, 
cold water, or rub over with common table butter. 

Sick Headache. — Elixir of guarana, prepared by Brewer & Co., Spring- 
field, Ma.ss. Take one tea-spoon every half hour until four have been taken, 
on the first intimation that the headache is coming on. 

Hot Water for a Cough.— For a tight, hoarse cough, wdiere phlegm is 
not raised, or with dithculty, take hot water often, as hot as can be sipped. 
This will be found to give immediate and permanent relief. 

Sprains or Lameness. — Two ounces camphorated spirits, two ounces sweet 
oil, two ounces ammonia, two ounces chloroform; shake well before using,, 
and rub it in by a fire. It is very excellent for a family liniment. 

Cherokee Liniment. — One ounce gum-camphor, dissolved in alcohol, one- 



MEDICAL. 



501 



ounce each of spirits turpentine, sweet oil, hemlock oil, origanum oil, and 
cedar oil, two ounces spirits hartshorn. Use externally. Shake well before 
usin*''. 

Fo^R Burns or Bruises.— Apply peach-tree leaves, the smooth side next 
the skin, and bind them on. For burns, when there is danger of mortifi- 
cation, or even if it has already set in, bind on strips of cloth dipped m 

Salve FOR Cuts and Burns.— To one-half pound of sweet lard add one- 
fourth pound of beeswax and the same of resin ; beat all together till weL 
mixed ; \mj\it in a little tin box. Apply a little to the wound on a soft 
cotton cloth. 

For Ivy Poisoning.— A simple and effectual remedy for ivy poisoning, is 
said to be sweet spirits of nitre. Bathe the affected parts two or three times 
during tlie day, and the next morning scarcely any trace of the poison 
will remain. 

For the Lungs.— A quart (or less if too strong) of tar, stirred six min- 
utes in a gallon of water, and one-fourth, or a tumbler, taken four times a 
day, an hour or two after meals, is said to clear the lungs, and give greater 
ease in public speaking. 

Sleeplessness.— Wot a cloth in cold water, and lay it on the back of the 
neck. Fold a towel smoothly over it, and very often it will soothe the weary 
brain, and quiet the nerves better than an opiate. It is particularly useful 
in case of a dull headache. 

Bee Stings.— Anv absorbent will give relief from bee stings, but perhaps 
nothing is more effectual than lean raw meat. The sting of a bee or wasp 
may be almost instantly relieved by it. It is said to cure the bite of a 
rattlesnake, and relieve erysipelas. 

For a Cold.— Cavenne pepper-tea for a cold. Put a quarter of a tea- 
spoon of cayenne pepper in a tea-cup; pour over hot water and sweeten 
with sugar. 'Or, steep horseradish in a gill of vinegar, add a gill of honey, 
and take a tea-spoon every twenty minutes. 

To Cure a Cough.— Roast a lemon very carefully without burning it; 
when it is thoroughlv hot, cut and squeeze into a cup upon three ounces of 
sugar, finely powdered. Take a spoonful whenever the cough is trouble- 
some.' It is as ^ood as it is agreeable to the taste. 

Blackened Eye.— Should the eye or any other part be blackened by a fall 
or blow, apply a cloth wrung out of very warm water, and renew it until the 
pain ceases. The moisture and heat liquefy the blood, and send it back to its 
proper channel. Never use cold water to a bruise. 

For Erysipelas.— a simple poultice made from cranberries pounded 
fine, and applied in a raw state, is said to be a certain cure ; or slip off the 
outer bark of elder, break up the wood with the inner bark, and steep in 
buttermilk; drink and applv to the parts affected. 

For Sore Throat.— Take five cents worth of chlorate of ])otash, dissolve, 
and take a tea-spoon everv hour, and also gargle with it. (Jr, to a tea-cu]) 
vinei^aradd salt and cavonne pep|)er, making it as strong as can be taken 
(some add a little pulverized alum), and gargle often with it. 

Burns.— Common ))aking soda— the bicarbonate— has been found to cure 
burns or scalds, affording immediate relief when it is promptly applied. For 
a dry burn, the soda should be made into paste with water. For a scald or 
wet burned surface, the powdered soda (or borax will do as well) should be 
dusted on. 

. To Relieve Toothache.— Applv powdered alum, or hll mouth with warm 
water, and imniediatelv after witli cold; or saturate a piece of cotton with 
a strong solution of ammonia, and apply to the tooth. For toothache and 
inflamed face caused by it, apply a poultice of pounded slippery-elm bark 
and cold water. 

A Good Cure for Colds is to boil two ounces of flaxseed m one quart ot 
water; strain and add two ounces of rock candy, one-half pint of honey, 



502 



MEDICAL. 



juice of three lemons ; mix, and let all boil well ; let cool, and bottle. Dose 
—One cupful before bed, one-half cupful before meals. The hotter vou 
drink it the better. 

Tape Worms are said to be removed by refraining from supper and break- 
fast, and at eight o'clock taking one-tliird part of two hundred minced 
pumpkin seeds, the shells of which have been removed bv hot water; at 
nine take another tliird, at ten tlie remainder, and follow it at eleven with 
strong dose oi castor-oil. 

For Cold in the Head.— As soon as you feel that you have a cold in the 
head, put a tea-spoonful of stigar in a goblet, and (jn it put six drops of cam- 
phor, stir it, and fill the glass half full of water; stir, till the suuar is dis- 
solved, then take a dessert-spoonful every twentv miiuites. This is a sure 
cure if taken as directed. 

To Prevent Takixi; Cold.— If out in cold weather with insufficient 
clothing or wrappings, fold a newspapor and sj^road acn^ss the chest. Per- 
sons having weak lungs can in this way make for themselves a verv cheap 
and perfect lung protector. Large papers spread between quilts at night, 
add mucli to tiie warmth. 

Salve.— The following is an excellent salve for burns, cuts, or sores of long 
standing: Take equal parts of melted beeswax, mutton suet, pulverized resin, 
burnt alum, honey, Venice of turpentine, sweet-oil. Cook over a slow hre 
all together. Stir till it commences to thicken ; then strain through a clotli 
and pour in earthen boxes. 

Catarrh Cold.— Ten drops carbolic acid, and seven and a half each of 
iodine and chloroform ; heat a few drops over a spirit lamp in a test tube, 
holding the mouth of the tube to the nostrils as soon as volatization is ef- 
fected. Repeat every two minutes, until the patient sneezes a number of 
times, when the troublesome symptoms will disappear. 

Neuralgia.— One-half drachm sal-ammonia in one ounce of camphor- 
water. Take a tea-spoon several times, five minutes apart, until relieved. 
Another simple remedy is horseradish. Grate, and mix it in vinegar, the 
same as for table purposes, and apply to the temple when the face or head 
is affected, or the wrist, when the pain is in the arm or shoulder. 

Whooping Cough.— Mix one lemon sliced, half pint flax-seed, two ounces 
honey, and one quart water, and sinimer, not boil, four hours; strain when 
cool, and if there is less than a pint of the mixture, add water. Dose: 
one table-spoon four times a day, and one also, after each severe fit of cough- 
mg. Warranted to cure in four days if given when the child first ^'whoops." 

Worms.— A mother gives the following: ''Once a week invariablj^— and 
generally when we had cold meat minced— I gave the children a dinner which 
LS hailed with delight, and looked forward to'; this is a dish of l)oiled onions. 
The little tilings knew that they were taking the best of medicine for expel- 
ling what most children suffer from— worms. Mine were kept free bv this 
remedy alone." 

For Sore Throat use as a remedy one ounce of camplKirated oil and 
five cents worth of chlorate of potash. Whenever aiiv sore'iics> a])i)ears in 
the throat, put the potash in half a tumbler of water, and with it gargle the 
throat thoroughly, then rub the neck thoroughly with the camphorated oil 
at night before going to bed, and also pin around the throat a small strip of 
woolen flannel. 

Eye Wash.— Sulphate of zinc two grains, sulphate of morphine one-half 
gram, distilled water one ounce; mix, and bottle. Drop in the eye (a drop 
or two at once,) then wink the eye several times, so that the wash may reagh 
all the parts; and keep quiet and do not use the eves for about an hour. 
This wash is for blood-shot eyes, and when used it will produce quite a 
smarting sensation. 

Conklin's Salve.— One pound of resin, two ounces mutton tallow, one of 
beeswax, one-half gill alcoholic spirits, add a little of the gum of balsam; 
boil all together slowly, until it has done rising or foaming, or until it begins 



MEDICAL. 



503 



to appear clear. Pour the mixture into a pail of cold water, and when it 
gathers, take it out, roll on boards and cut it off. Care must be taken not to 
burn it. Moisten the hands in brandy while working. 

Mustard Plaster. — Mix with boiling water, vinegar, or white of an egg 
(the latter is best when a blister is not wanted) to consistency the same as if 
for the table. Some add a little tlour when not wanted so strong. Spread 
on half a thin muslin cloth, cover with the other half, or put on cloth, and 
put over it a thin piece of gauze ; apply, and when removed, wash the skin 
with a soft sponge, and apply a little sweet cream or oil. 

Sprains. — If a sprain is nothing more than a sprain — that is, if no bones 
are broken or put out — wrap the part in several folds of flannel wiiich has 
been wrung out of hot water, and cover it with a dry bandage, and rest it 
for some days, or even weeks. Entire rest at first, and moderate rest after- 
ward, are absolutely necessary after a sprain. If it is in the ankle, the foot 
should be raised as high as may be comfortable ; if in the wrist, it should l>e 
carried in a sling. 

French Kemedy for Consumption. — One-half pound finely cut up fresh 
beefsteak; one drachm pulverized charcoal; four ounces pulverized sugar; 
four ounces rye wliisky ; one pint boiling water. Mix all together, let it 
stand in a cool place over night, and give from one to two tea-spoons liquid 
and meat before each meal. The dose should be small at first, until the 
stomach becomes used to it, and then gradually increased. This remedy has 
the merit of simplicity. 

Cough Mixture. — Dissolve one-fourth pound gum-arabic in half-pint boil- 
ing water, add a half tea-cup sugar and honey, and two table-spoons lemon 
juice, steep for five or ten minutes; bottle and cork, add water, and take; 
or boil one ounce each of licorice-stick and anise-seed, and half ounce senna 
in one quart of water, ten minutes; strain, add tw^o tea-cups molasses or 
honey, boil down to a pint and then buttle ; or, to one pint whisky add 
one-half pound rock candy and two ounces glycerine. 

Drunkenness. — There is a prescription in use in England for the cure of 
drunkenness, by w^hich thousands are said to have been assisted in recovering 
themselves. It is as follows: Sulphate of iron, five grains; peppermint 
water, eleven drachms; spirit of nutmeg, one drachm; twice a day. This 
preparation acts as a stimulant and tonic, and partially supplies the place of 
the accustomed liquor, and prevents that absolute physical and moral pros- 
tration that follow^s a sudden cessation from the use of stimulating drinks. 

Catarrh. — Wet and cold at the surface of the body is a cause of catarrh, 
but the most fruitful source is wet and cold feet, and yet there is nothing 
more easy to avoid. Warm socks, horse-hair soles, and goloshes will always 
keep the feet dry and warm. It does not seem to be understood that although 
a boot or shoe niay not leak, yet if the sole is damp, it by evaporation con- 
ducts away the heat from the foot, and ought never to be w^orn when not 
exercising. The neck should be covered lightly, but too much covering pre- 
disposes to catarrhal troubles by causing congestion of the membrane affected 
in this disease. Bed-rooms ought to be well aired, and warmed if possible, 
by an open fire, in damp, chilly weather. 

Blisters for Diphtheria.— The method of treating that form of pul- 
monary consumption which consists in ulceration in the substance of the 
lungs, by means of blisters on the chest, and thus giving an artificial outlet 
to the humors which otherwise discharge from the lungs, has been success- 
fully applied to various other diseases in which vital organs were attacked. 
Even various forms of internal inflammation may in this way be drawn to 
the exterior, and the latest application of this method has been made with 
diphtheria. The new method is to blister the chest of the patient suffering 
from diphtheria, and the ulceration which otherwise takes place in the 
throat, will appear on the chest, while the throat becomes free. 

Healing Salve for Wounds. — Pint olive-oil, half ounce common resin, 
half ounce beeswax ; melt w^ell toge-ther, and bring oil to boiling heat j add 



504 



MEDICAL. 



gradually of pulverized red lead— three-eighths of a pound (for summer 
use a trifle more lead); in a short time after it is taken up by the oil, and 
the mixture becomes brown or a shining black, remove from the fire, and 
when nearly cold add two scruples pulverized camphor. It should remain 
un the fire until it attains a proper consistency for spreading, which may be 
known by dipping a splint or knife in the mixture from time to time, and 
allowing it to cool. When used spread thinly on a piece of tissue-paper or 
old, fine linen. Excellent for frost sores or any kind that are hard to heal. 

How TO Distinguish Rashes. — Measles appear as a number of dull red 
spots, in many places running into each other, and is usually first seen 
about the face and on the forehead, near the roots of the hair, and is often 
preceded by running of the eyes and nose, and all the signs of severe cold. 
Scarlet fever appears first about the neck and chest, but not unfrequently at 
the bend of the elbow or under the knee, and is usually preceded by sore 
throat. It can be distinguished from roseola — a mild disease, which is some- 
times niistaken for it — by the bright red color of the skin, which appears 
not unlike a boiled lobster. In chicken-pox the symptom is attended by 
fever, the spots are small, separate pimples, and come generally over the 
whole body. 

CuBEB Berries for Catarrh. — A new remedy for catarrh is crushed cubeb 
berries smoked in a pipe, emitting the smoke through the nose; after a few 
trials this will be easy to do. If the nose is stopped up so that it is almost 
impossible to breathe, one pipeful will make the head as clear as a bell. 
For sore throat, asthma, and bronchitis, swallowing the smoke effects imme- 
diate relief. It is the best remedy in the world for offensive breath, and will 
make the most foul breath pure and sweet. Sufferers from that horrid dis- 
ease, ulcerated catarrh, will find this remedy unequaled, and a month's use 
will cure the most obstinate case. A single trial will convince any one. 
Eating the uncrushed berries is also good for sore throat and all bronchial 
complaints. After smoking, do not expose yourself to cold air for at least 
fifteen minutes. 

Sure Cure for Croup.— Boil pigs' feet in water, without salt, and let it 
stand over night; in the morning skim off the fat (which will be formed in 
a cake on top), put in a tin pan, boil until all water is evaporated ; bottle, 
and keep for use. Give a tea-spoon every fifteen minutes on the appearance 
of the first symptoms, and apply freely' to chest and throat, rubbing well. 
A celebrated physician says that a child can not have the croup if pigs' feet 
oil is administered at the first symptoms. Or, warm a tea-spoon with a little 
lard in it or goose grease ; thicken with sugar, and give it to the child ; it 
may produce vomiting, which is always desirable, thus breaking up the 
membrane that is forming. Apply lard^or goose grease to throat and chest, 
with raw cotton or flannel. Care should be taken, removing only a small 
piece at a time of these extra wraps to prevent taking cold. 

For Rhet'matis.m.— (Internal remedy.)— Three drams iodide of potash, dis- 
solved in one-half pint of hot water. ' Take a table-spoonful three times a 
day, and drink lemonade at intervals between. 

(External remedy. Liniment— Two ounces tincture arnica, one ounce 
canii)lior, ()ne ounce belladonna, one ounce cannabis indica, one-half ounce 
r^onite (if neuralgia), one-half ounce oil hemlock, one-half ounce worm- 
wood, one-half ounce sassafras (if there are humors), one-fourth ounce or- 
iganiim, one-fourth ounce tar (if there are sores), one-fourth ounce cajeput, 
one-eighth ounce peppermint, one-fourth ounce chloroform, six ounces aqua 
ammonia. Wet a flannel with this liniment, and rub the parts affected ; or 
place the flannel over the rheumatic part, and cover it with thick paper, and 
place near it a warm brick. Immediate relief will be obtained. 

Cure for Felox.— When a felon first makes its ap])earance, take the inside 
skin of an egg-shell, and wrap it around the part affected. When the press- 
ure becomes too painful, wet it with water, and keep it on twelve hours. 

Roast or bake thoroughly a large onion ; mix the soft inner pulp with two 



MEDICAL. 



heaping table-spoons of table salt, and apply the mixture to the affected 
part as a poultice, keeping the parts well covered. Make fresh applications 
Sit least twice a day, morning and evening, and a cure will follow in at least 
a week. 

Or, one tea-spoon of scorched salt, one tea-si)oon of corn meal, one tea- 
spoon of scrai)ed hard soaj), one tea-spoon of beet leaves pounded up, twelve 
drops of turp(;ntine, and the yolk of one egg. Mix all ingredients toget-her 
in the form of a poultice, in which bind closely the swollen hnger. 

Or, procure five or six lemons, cut off the end of one, thrust the sore finger 
into the lemon, and let it stay till the lemon is warm; proceed in the same 
way till all the six are used. Or, put a piece of Si)anish-fly plaster over the 
spot atfected, and that will draw^ the trouble to the surface ; or, on the fir.st 
appearance, apply a poultice of the connnon Fleur de Lis root well mashed. 
It will cure in a short time. 

For Constipation. — The same remedies will not affect all persons. One 
or two figs eaten fasting is sufficient for some, and they are especially good 
in the case of children, as there is no trouble in getting tliem to take them. 
A spoon of wheaten bran in a glass of water is a simple remedy and quite 
effective. One or two tumblers of hot water will move almost every one, 
but is difhcidt to take. In chronic cases a faithful manii)ulation and mov- 
ing t)f bowels and limbs with gentle rotary movement with the open palm, 
and giving all natural motions to the parts, with ju-oper diet, will almost 
invariably secure the desired result. It has been known to cure a case of 
life-long habit, where inherited, too, and although it involves patience and 
perseverance, it is certainly better than to suffer the ills that result from so 
many patent medicines and quack nostrums. " An ounce of prevention is 
Avorih a pound of cure," and regularity of habit in this matter is the great 
thing to be impressed on people generally. 

Or, three tea-cups each of coarse, clean wheat-bran and sifted flour, one 
heaping measure each of Horsford's bread preparation (soda and acid), seven 
teaspO(jns good butter and one of salt. Mix with cold sweet milk; roll 
third of an inch thick, cut with a biscuit cutter and bake thoroughly in a 
moderate oven ; or, pour hot water on one table-spoon flax seed, pour off and 
at once add three or four table-spoons of cold water, and drink. This is per- 
fectly harmless and may be taken once, twice, or thrice a day if necessary ; 
or, a teaspoon black mustard-seed taken every morning ; or a glass of cold 
water taken at night and first thing in the morning. 

Scarlet Fever, or Scarlatina. — When to the feeling of general illness 
Avhich accompanies all fevers is added a very rapid pulse, 120-130, and a tem- 
perature of 100°-104°-105°, and there is a dry, hot feeling in the throat, with 
tonsils red and swollen, and distress on trying to sw^allow, it is safe to suspect 
an infectious disease, and probably scarlet fever. The sick person should be 
isolated at once in a room as much apart from the other members as possible, 
the higher up in the house the better, and a good physician sent for. 

The rash generally appears about the second day, beginning on the neck 
and chest, and extending over the whole body, the deepest color being on the 
neck, the outer side of the limbs, the joints, hands and feet. The cheeks are 
a bright, deep red. The case having been declared to be scarlet fever, all pre- 
cautions given for infectious diseases, as regards isolation and disinfection, 
must be observed. 

The room should be kept at an even temperature of 65° ; light a fire, if 
possible, and leave the window down an inch at the top. Throw the window 
open and change the air entirely twdce a day, covering the patient head and 
all at the time and until the room is again warm. Do not be afraid of fresh, 
dry outside air, but be sure that the pati(?nt is covered head and all, so that 
no cold air is breathed, while you are airing and warming the room. 

Give the patient once or twice daily, a warm sponge or plunge bath, as 
directed by the physician, being careful that he is covered with a blanket 
•during the bathing, thrown over the bed or tub ; divy quickly with warm, 

32 



506 



MEDICAL. 



soft towels, and as the patient lies in bed, rub the entire surface of the body 
with vaseline, cocoa-oil, or whatever oil the physician orders. The bed- 
clothing should be warm, but never heavy ; keep the feet and legs warm. 

Gruels, milk, simple broth, etc., are generally enough. When there ia 
exhaustion from fever, the doctor will give orders as to stimulating nourish, 
ment. Cold water or weak lemonade may be given freely, unless the doctor 
orders differently. 

Keep the patient strictly in bed; make use of the bed-pan and urnial to 
prevent getting up. Guard in every way a check of perspiration. If the 
patient is propped up in bed, see that a short jacket or small shawl is put 
over the night-dress, but use nothing that can not be washed. 

Notice the breathing at night or in sleep, whether it is even and deep, oi? 
short and labored, as^if there were trouble with the air-passages. Be par. 
ticularly watchful of the condition of the excretions, especially of the urine; 
bhould it become scanty or smoky -colored, report it at once to the physician. 
Observe whether there' is a free though seemingly harmless discharge from 
the nose; this niav indicate diphtheritic trouble. See whether there is any 
swelling of Umbs." In short, there is nothing which must not be observed 
with care, and reported accurately to the doctor. 

The akin becomes dry, and generally begins to scale off about the nth day 
after the rash appears. No patient should be allowed to leave his bed until 
this process is completed. The warm baths should be kept up, the least chilli- 
ness guarded against, and the temperature of the room allowed now to be 70°. 
After the peeling is over the patient should still remain in his room for two 
weeks, and should be separate from other members of the family not less 
than a month from the commencement of the disease. Severe cases of scarlet 
fever may follow from exposure to light ones. See that the patient is well 
wrapped, with hands and feet protected, on first going into the open air. 

The troubles which mav arise out of an attack are frequently the result 
of carelessness on the part of the nurse, neglect of orders, exposure to cold, 
etc There can not be too much care taken of the lightest case. A bad 
attack will compel attention, but " sUght cases," so-called, are often neglected 
with fatal results, or life-long deafness or other disability. Dropsy, malignant 
sore throat, disease of the kidneys, weakness of the lungs, pleurisy, and 
many other maladies, lie in wait for the scarlet fever i>sitient.— Hand- Book 
of Nursing. 

The Treatment of Diphtheria.— The symptoms of diphtheria are much 
like a common sore throat accompanied by a severe cold. The sore throat is 
accompanied with more fever than an ordinary cold, and there is an in- 
describable sickish feeling, which is easily recognized by those who have 
once experienced it. Later, white patches appear in the throat, on the ton- 
sils, the back of the throat, and on the arches of the palate. The throat is 
generaliv but little swollen on the outside, but in all cases when there is 
a suspicion of diphtheria, it is not safe to delay sending for a physician, as the 
disease does its work qidckli/, and must he dealt with in time or it is fatal. There 
are really three varieties of the disease. The first is characterized by fever, 
severe pains in back and limbs, and very great prostration. There may be 
no soreness of the throat, but small white specks will be noticed on the ton- 
sils. In the second, large patches of false membrane appear on the tonsils 
and back of the throat ; but the glands of the neck do not become swollen. 
In the third, which is the true malignant diphtheria, there is swelling of the 
glands of the neck and under jaw, profuse and offensive discharges from the 
mouth and throat, and more or less discharge from the nostrils. In the first 
two varieties, the disease generally yields to simple treatment, hut the disease 
is too subtle and dangerous to be triiied with, and a physician should be sum- 
moned. One of the best remedies for domestic use in the early stages of the 
disease, is, probably, chlorate of patash, put into a tumbler of water until 
no more will dissolve, and used as a gargle. If swallowed it is harmless. It 
is cheap— five to ten cents worth being sufficient for almost any case, and it 



MEDICAL. 



may be kept in the house for emergencies. It is also an excellent remedy, 
used as above described, for ordinary sore throat. In the case of children too 
young to use the gargle, make a swab on the end of a firm round stick, by 
binding on a small piece of linen or cotton cloth ; use only once and burn it, 
i. e., the rag. Take tlie handle of a teaspoon and press the tongue down so 
as to see plainly the condition of the throat; swab quickly and draw out. 
Do not worry the child by poking the stick dowm its throat a half dozen 
times, make a sure thing tiie hrst time, for if you touch the affected parts, 
well; better do it again in two hours. Dip swab in a preparation (which 
may also be used as a gargle) of alcohol, diluted with water, hut as strong as 
the patient can bear. The alcohol acts quickly upon the poison of the disea.se, 
and is a remedy easily obtained and kept at hand. When attacked with 
diphtheria, the patient should be kept in bed with sufficient clothing over 
the body for comfort, and no more. The room should be kept well supplied 
with pure air, and nourishment should he given in the shape of well-pre- 
pared beef-tea every two hours. Cut fresh beef into pieces, put into a bottle 
without water, and boil in a pot of water. To an adult give a great spoonful 
of the beef-tea thus made, every two hours, and less in proportion to age. 
If this does not agree with the patient, or there is any difficuly in the 
patient's swallowing it, substitute the wdiite of an egg; beat till smooth, mix 
with half a tumbler of water, and give a table-spoon at a time. This is very 
nourishing, and is often taken more readily than beef-tea. It is particularly 
important to nourish the patient with proper supplies of food in the early^ stages 
of the disease, as there is danger that the supply of vitalized blood will not 
be sufficient to meet the demand made by the disease. 

The homeopathic treatment is to begin at once with aconite and belladonna, 
alternately every hour. If after four hours there is no improvement, and 
the characteristic prostration, and the patches on the tonsils are increasing, 
stop the aconite, and supply its place with the proto-iodide of mercurius. 
Let these two remedies be continued until there is a marked change for 
better or worse. If for the former, let the intervals be increased to one and 
a half or two hours; for the latter, and there is approaching unconscious- 
ness, with frequent arousing to cough up or hawk up the detached fragments 
of the deposits, that brings up tough, ropy, yellowish mucus, give kali bi- 
chromicum alone every hour. When the patient becomes really better, stop 
and give no more medicine while the improvement goes on satisfactorily. 

One reason why it is important to summon a physician as soon as the 
symptoms of the' disease appear, is that many cases which appear slight, at 
first, are really most serious and fatal, wdiile a common sore throat excites the 
greatest alarni, the judgment of the physician being necessary to decide the 
amount of danger in the case. 

In some cases drv sulphur, applied to the tonsils and throat, gives relief, 
and in violent cases tlie fumes of sulphur, burned in the close room, have 
been used with good effect. An outw^ard application to the throat, of lard 
as hot as it can be borne, is an aid to the other remedies mentioned. 

To avoid all causes of diphtheria, keep the house free from dirt and filth of 
every kind from cellar to garret. See that no sewers give off gases, no drains 
are left lilthv, and no out-house uncleaned, and bear in mind that it is not 
enough to destroy bad smells by disinfectants— the cause of the smells must 
be removed. 

A lady who had the courage and coolness to treat herself, through a severe 
case of diphtheria, when no jiJiysician w^as at hand, describes her case thus: 
" I first noticed spores (the characteristic white patches which appear on the 
throat) on mv right tonsil at 9 a. m. Bv noon they had spread over the entire 
arch of the palate, and the back of the throat. Several of these were loosened 
before night, but during the night they had spread up the nose and down the 
bronchial tube. Mv palate and tonsils were so swollen that I could scarcely 
speak, and with difficulty swallow. The gland on the right side of neck was 
much swollen, and ached, causing a dull pain in the ear. The breath had 



508 



MEDICAL. 



that offensive odor peculiar to the disease, and I liad an intense, burning 
fever. I biujan my retnedies as soon as I discovered the spores. I took a clay pipe, 
filled the bowl one-eighth full of dry sulphur, powdered very line, and shook 
it down into the stem. I then placed the end of the stem in my throat, and 
held it there in front of the spores, while an attendant blew into tlie bowl, 
and repeated this until the whole diseased surface of the throat was covered with dry 
3ul^)hur, taking care to hold my breath while the sulphur was being blown 
in/ In iialf an hour this was repeated. I then made a strong gargle of chlo- 
rate of potash, and half an hour after using the last sulphur, gargled my 
throat thoroughly. I then alternated the sulphur with the gargle of chlorate 
of potash every hour. At night I mixed a tea-spoon of sulphur with water, 
and swallowed' it slowly, and continued taking it in this way three times a 
dav. Blowing sulphur'into the throat, and gargling with chlorate of potash 
was kept up reguiaily for four days, until every spore had disappeared, ex^ 
actly as at first, except making the intervals longer as the disease abated. 
Whenever I felt them getting down the bronchial tube, I drew breath gently 
when the sulphur was being blown into my throat. It almost choked me to 
death, but I persevered. For my nose I snuffed up sulphur, just as old 
ladies take snuff, until satisfied that every part was reached. When the 
spores came off I watched for new ones, and did not relax my attention for 
one moment for five days. When better, I made a gargle of honey, sage and 
water, to heal and remove the swelling in the throat. I afterward treated 
my husband successfully for the same disease, in the same way." 

Diphtheria is a disease which springs from the growth of a real fungus on 
some of the mucous surfaces of the system, more generally of the throat. It 
may spread by contact of the mucous surfaces of a diseased with those of a 
healthy person, as in kissing, and is, to a limited degree, epidemic. 

From the local parts affected it spreads to the whole body, affecting the 
muscular and nervous systems, vitiating the lymph and nutrient fluids, and 
producing paralvsis. 

As soon as the bacterium or fungus appears on the white patches on the 
throat, it should no more be neglected than a bleeding gash or a broken aruL 
and there is almost as little need of a fatal termination of one incident as of 
the other. 

Onion Recipe.— Place one pint of lard in a skillet, peel and slice six large 
onions; put them in the lard and fry them very thoroughly until the juice 
is all extracted, and the onions very brown, not burnt; then skim out the 
onions and press through a colander; pour the juice into the skillet. Add 
a lump of beeswax size of a large hen's egg, let it melt and mix with the 
lard, then pour into a pan to cool. It can be kept for more than a year, 
and is alw^avs readv for use. Good as an outward application for sore throat, 
diphtheria,"'cold on the lungs, boils, swellings, or sore and inflamed breasts. 
When wanted for use, spread on a piece of firm cloth or drilling, and apply. 
For breasts, cut a piece of cloth round with a hole in the center for the 
infant, then cover the breast entirely over with the cloth on which the 
salve has been spread. 



FLORAL, 



To Kill Earth-worms. — Ten drops of carbolic acid in a pint of water, 
poured over earth in tlower-pots will kill all earth-worms. 

Sure Shot for Rose Slugs. — Make a tea of tobacco-stems and a soap-suds 
of whale-oil or carbolic soap, mix, and apply to the bush with a sprinkler, 
turning the bush so as to wet the under as w^ell as the upper part of the 
leaves ; apply before the sun is up three or four times. 

Ivies. — A successful cultivator of ivies feeds them with iron and cod-liver 
oil ; the iron in form of rusty nails, mixed into the earth. Another pro- 
duced a luxurious growth by watering once a week witli tobacco-water; 
making a tea of refuse tobacco-leaves and stems, or of coarse tobacco. The 
water from the washing of fresh beef is also of great benefit to ivies. Moisten 
the leaves with a yponge wet in tea, or put tea-leaves around the plant. 

To Keep Plants Without a Fire at Night. — Have made of wood or ziiic 
a tray about lour inches deep, with a handle on either end, water-tigh^^ — 
paint it outside and in, put in each corner a post as high as the tallest of 
your plants, and it is ready for use. Arrange your flower-pots in it, and fill 
between them with sawdust; tliis absorbs the moisture falling from the 
plants when you water them, and retains the warmth acquired during the 
day, keeping the temperature of the roots even. When you retire at night 
spread over tlic posts a blanket or shawl, and there is no danger of freezing. 
The tray may be placed on a stand or table and easily moved about. 

Window Gardening. — All the varieties of English ivy, the hoyacarnosa, 
the passion flower, the jasmine, the pilogyne suavis, and begonias are espe- 
cially suitable for window culture. Very pretty effects may be produced at 
the cost of a few cents, by planting verbenas, morning-glories, cobea scan- 
dens, and the maurandias in baskets or flower-pots, which may be concealed 
behind statuary or bronzes. The best fertilizer for them or any other house 
plants is that afforded by the tea-pot ; the cold tea-grounds usually tlirowii 
aw^ay, if poured as a libation to these household fairies, will produce a 
miracle of beauty and perfume. 

To Prepare Autumn Leaves and Ferns. — Immediately after gathering^ 
take a moderately warm iron, smear it well with white wax, rub over each 
surface of the leaf once, apply more wax for eacli leaf ; this process causes 
leaves to roll about as when hanging on tlie tree. If pressed more they be- 
come brittle and remain perfectly flat. Maple and oak are among the most 
desirable, and may be gatliered any time after the severe frosts ; but the 
sumac and ivy must be secured as soon after the first slight frost, as they be- 
come tinted, or the leaflets will fall from the stem. Ferns may be selected 
any time during the season. A large book must be used in gathering them, 
as the}" will be spoiled for pressing if carried in the hand. A weight should 
be placed on them until they are perfectly dry ; then, excepting the most 
delicate ones, it will be well to press them like the leaves, as they are liable 
to curl when placed in a warm atmosphere; these will form beautiful com- 
binations with the sumac and ivy. 

Keeping Cut-Flowers Fresh. — Cut-flowers soon drop and fade. Here are 
some of the ways in wiiich they are preserved: Add to the w^ater a few 
drops of camphor or ammonia, a little salt, a lump of charcoal; immersing 
the stems in hot water when a bouquet is first made, and then as they com- 
mence to wilt repeating it, first cutting off the ends. Have a skillet or pan on 

(509) 



510 



FLORAL. 



the stove with boiling water, in depth from half an inch to an inch, hold the 
stems in the boiling water for a few seconds, make into bouquets and place 
in water ; or if you wish to send to a distance, pack in a box, and send by 
mail, or any way you wish. When placed in the water a little salt or a 
rusty nail droi>ped in helps to keep them fresh. In making bouquets, be 
careful not to crowd too many flowers into one vase. They will last longer, 
to say nothing about their improved appearance, if the}' stand loosely. 
Never use cold water. Let it be Jukewarm, and soft if possible. Sprinkling 
tlowers in vases at night will help to keep them fresh, and, better still, lay 
them out on the grass where they will receive the dew, being careful to take 
them in early in the morning in summer, before the hot rays of the sun 
have wilted them. 

Flat bouquets, made in plates or glass platters, can be built up with a 
foundation of sand. Flowers will last much lunger if their stems are thrust 
into wet sand than they will in water. The sand can be covered with moss, 
the tlowers can be arranged in any fanciful shape that suits, and they will 
not be likely to become disarranged, for the sand holds them in place firmly. 
Instead of moss, leaves can be used to cover the surface and make a ground- 
work for the design, or bits of geranium branches, which often put out roots 
in the damp sand, and most of them grow right along as if nothing had hap- 
pened to them. Very pretty designs may be made of tin about an inch in 
depth in diamond crosses, and letters, and then filled with sand and flowers. 
Jn making button-hole bouquets, or arranging flowers such as roses, camel- 
lias, etc., for the hair, cut the stems off at right angles and immediately 
apply hot wax to the end of the stock, then wrap in tin-foil, or to keep 
them, after applying the wax : place each one in a paper cone or cap so that 
the leaves do not touch the paper. The cap should be sealed up with glue 
to prevent air, dust or moisture from entering. When the glue is dry it 
should be placed in a coo] place. When wanted, cut ott' the waxed end and 
place in water, where it will bloom in a few hours. 

Hoi:sE Plants. — Plants that require a high or low temperature, or a very 
moist atmosphere, and plants that bloom only in summer are undesirable. 
Procure fresh sandy loam, with an equal mixture of well rotted turf, leaf 
mold and cow-yard manure, with a small quantity of soot. In repotting use 
one size larger than they were grown in ; hard burned or glazed pots prevent 
the circulation of air. Secure drainage by broken crockery and pebbles laid 
in the bottom of tlie pot. An abundance of light is important, and when 
this can not be given, it is useless to attempt the culture of flowering plants. 
If possible they should have the morning sun, as one hour of sunshine then 
is Worth two in the afternoon. Fresh air is also essential, but cold, chilling 
draughts should be avoided. Water from one to three times a week with 
soft hike-warm water, draining oft' all not absorbed by the earth. Do not 
permit water to stand in the saucers, as the only plant thriving under such 
treatment are calla lilies, and even for these it is not necessary unless while 
blooming. Dust is a great obstacle to the growth of plants ; a good shower- 
ing will generally remove it, but all the smooth-leaved piants, such as 
camellias, ivies, etc., should be occasionally sponged to keej) tlie foliage clean 
and healthy. Plants succeed best in an even temperature ranging from six- 
ty to seventy degrees during the day, with from ten to twelve degrees lower 
at niglit. If trou])led witli insects put them under a box or barrel and 
smoke from thirty to sixty minutes with tobacco leaves. For the red spider, 
the best remedy is to lay the plants on the side and si)rinkle well or shower. 
Repeat if necessary. The soil should be frequently stirred to prevent caking. 
If manures are used give in a liquid form. Some of the most suitable plants 
for parlor culture are pelargoniums, geraniums, fuchsias, palms, begonias, 
monthly roses, camellias, azaleas, oranges, lemons, Chinese and English 
primroses, abutilons. narcisus, heliotrope, stevias, bouvardias, petunias, and 
the gorgeous flowering plant poinsetfia pulrherrima. Camellias and azaleas 
require a cooler temperature than most plants, and the poinsettia a higher 



FLORAL. 



511 



temperature. Do not sprinkle the foliage of the camellias while the flower^ 
buds are swelling, as it will cause them to droop, nor sprinkle them m the 
sunshine. Thev should have a temperature of about forty degrees and 
more shade. By following these rules, healthy howering plants will be the 
result.— J". S. Robinson. 

The Care of House Plants.— When plants are frosted sprmkle with 
fresh cold water, and place under a box or something that will exclude the 
licriitand prevent too great a change in temperature. Keep them thus for 
two days. After sprinkling, be careful to put them where they will not 
chill a.o-ain. Horse-manure, two vears old, is best for carnations. For bego- 
nias ^o"od drainage is indispensable. The whole family thrive in a compost 
of one-lialf loam and one-half leaf-mold with a slight portion of sand. From 
September to Februarv give pelargoniums only enough water to keep them 
from wilting ; then water freely, and when they begin to bud, apply a little 
liquid-manure, or add ammonia to the water twice a week. Double gerani- 
um^ should be kept in small pots, as they will not bloom well until the roots 
beconip compact. They require a higher temperature than the single varie- 
ties. Daring warm weather, the foliage of fuchsias should be well sprinkled 
every evening to prevent its becoming seared too early. To obtain plants of 
the greatest beauty in form and color, plenty of light and space is essential Do 
not allow the foliage of one plant to overshadow another.— ii/\s. Proj. H ood. 

HiNT'< \B0UT Pl\nts.— Few things are necessary for the successful culti- 
vation of house plants. A patient, untiring spirit is most important. The 
other requisites are plenty of sunligiit, fresh air, and water when they need 
it It is better to give a good supply of water when called for by drooping 
leaves than to give a little at a time often. Never leave pots to set m water 
in saucers except for the calla lily. To repot, turn plants upside down on 
the left hand, rap pots sharply with stick; this will loosen it from the ball 
of earth • lift it off, and place the plant in a pot two sizes larger, or m the 
ground Do not leave the soil too rich with manure but well mixed, and 
composed of sod-soil, wild or leaf-mold, and well-rotted stable manure. Cut 
plants back pretty closely when you change them, and they will thrive bet- 
ter afterwards. Water well at first, then only moisten slightly until they 
be<^in to grow. A good rule for watering plants is once a week m winter if 
the weather is mild, or when it has moderated, have a gallon watering-can 
fdled with blood-warm water, stir in a tea-spoonful of aqua ammonia, and 
as you set the plants in a convenient place (X set mine on the kitchen floor), 
pour in pot a plentiful supply of this w^arm water, and after this, sprinkle 
well with warm water without ammonia. In summer two or three times a 
week is the rule. Ivies need large pots, and should be repotted every year 

in the summer time. t-u^j ^ ^-i 

A o-ood way to start slips is to partly break off the slip, but do not entirely 
sever'^it from' the parent stock, leaving it hanging for ten or twelve days; 
then remove and plant in a box of half sand or brick-dust and half leat- 
mold and it will be well rooted in a week. Do not water too freely, or 
the slip will rot. This is better for both slip and plant, as the slip will get 
nourishment from plant while healing over, and its removal will not weak- 
en the plant so much. Hyacinths are very attractive flowers for window- 
gardening, and at the same time require very little care or trouble. Gret 
the bulbs in the fall before frost from any good florist (Vick is my tavorite), 
and keep in a cool place until December, then plant each one m a tour- 
inch pot with soil one-fourth sand, one-fourth well-rotted manure, one-fourth 
garden or sod-soil, and one-fourth broken bits of moss and leaf-mold; 
water thoroughly at first, and set in dark closet until the first of Janu- 
ary, then bring to light and give plenty of water. A very good way is to 
set half a dozen or more pots in a large dripping-pan, pour hot not boiling) 
water in pan, and let set for one hour. After they are done blooming, let 
them dry out gradually. They will not bloom the second season as well 
as the first.— 3/. E. C. 



THE CHEMISTRY OF FOOD 



A MAN may eat his fill and yet be hungry. It is not the quantity but the 
proper quality in food that satisfies. It is not only true that what is one 
man's food is another's poison ; but it is also true that what is food atone 
season of the year, at one period of life, or in one climate, may be poison 
to the same individual at another season or age, or in another climate. The 
inhabitant of the tropic subsists and thrives on fruits on which the Ice- 
lander would starve ; while the blubber and oil that makes up the diet of 
the inhabitant of the frozen zones would be fatal to those who live under 
the burning sun of the equator. Even the same person requires a fruit 
diet in the tropics, and one of fats in the north region. The child requires 
food made up of different elements from that which best suits the adult; 
and the diet of a laborer in the open air must differ from that of the brain- 
worker, who takes little exercise, and whose work makes heavy draughts 
on the nervous system. 

No one has mastered the art of cooking who does not know something 
of the chemical elements of foods, and the purpose they serve when taken 
into the system. It is particularly important that those* who are compelled 
to practice rigid economy should know just what foods will best supply 
tlie real needs of the family, and how the most real nourishment may be 
had for their money. 

An adult takes into the system daily, through lungs and mouth, eight and 
a quarter pounds of dry food, water, and air necessary for respiration. The 
same amount is given off as waste through the pores, lungs, kidneys, and 
intestines. Life and activity consume this amount as fuel just as a lamp con- 
sumes oil. Every movement, every breath, every heart-beat, every thought 
burns up a certain amount of fuel-material, and if the supply is not forth- 
coming, the machinery stops and death ensues. The better tlie oil the more 
perfect the light; and the more perfectly the food is adapted to its wants, 
the more vigorous the body, and the more perfect the working of its intri- 
cate machinery of muscle, nerve, and brain. 

Food is first masticated and then digested. In mastication it is not only 
moistened with saliva, but acted upon chemically in preparation for the 
more vigorous and thorough work of the stomach. It is a mistake to sup- 
pose that water or any of the various drinks taken at table are a substitute 
for saliva. They not only do not prepare food for the stonuicli, but force 
it into the stomach unprepared, and, besides, retard digestion by delaying 
the process until the water can be absorbed into the bloo<l. For these'rea- 
sons drinks should precede or follow a meal. Crusts of bread and hard and 
firm food is wholesome, principally because it must be thoroughly masti- 
cated before it can be swallowed. 

When the food reaches the stomach it rouses into action, the gastric juice 
pours from hundreds of little points, the food is diluted and the more solv- 
ent ^arts dissolved, to be taken up by the thousands of little mouths which 
honeycomb tlie surface, and carried into the circulation to repair the waste 
of tissues. The oily portions of food, and such as do not yield to the action 
ol the gastric juice, pass on and are subjected to the infiuence of the bile 
and pancreatic fluid, until all that is of value is absorbed, while the waste 
is rejected and passes off. 
(512) 



THE CHEMISTRY OF FOOD. 



513: 



This much of the digestive process needs to be known to make clear the 
why of certain processes in cookery. As the juices of the stomach only act 
on the surface of the food which passes into it, it is ea.sy to see why light 
bread is more wholesome than heavy. The gastric and other juices can act 
only on the outside surface of a heavy lump of dough; but when made 
into light and porous bread, the outer surface is not only vastly increased, 
but the juices pour through thousands of avenues, and penetrate and act 
on every part. If the frugal housewife knew this, would she set the heavy, 
soggy loaf of bread before her children "to save it?'' Many a mother ig- 
norantly gives her child a stone when it asks for bread. 

Fats of all kinds do not digest in the stomach. The gastric juice mingles 
with but does not dissolve them. It is only after they have passed on and 
become subjected to the action of the bile and pancreatic fluid that they 
are taken up and made available as carbon for lung combustion. Fats, un- 
combincd with other substances, act as emetics or cathartics and not as food. 
It is only when combined with other food that they are capable of being 
taken up by the absorbing vessels, and made to act as fuel to the system. 
A half pound of crude lard, unmixed with any other substance, would be 
rejected, but when thoroughly and skillfully mixed into a fiakey crust will 
not derange the stomach, and will be assimilated and utilized. Remeviber 
that the use of more fat than can he perfectly blended, or any carelessness or imper- 
fection in the process, is sure to produce indigestion and work mischief. 

Foods differ in the time required for digestion. Some fruits refresh in- 
stantly, the juices being at once absorbed into the circulation. Some meats 
and vegetables yield almost immediately to the action of the gastric juice, 
and pass into the circulation. Others require a long time for digestion. 
The more subtle and delicate flavors and parts of food yield first; then the 
gluten of the flour, the curd of the milk, the fiber of the flesh, reinforce 
the blood and supply muscular waste, while, later, the oily and sugary por- 
tions are worked over to repair waste or furnish fuel to keep up the neat 
of the body. 

Food has chiefly two offices to perform: the repair of muscular waste, 
and the supply of the body with fuel to keep its heat up to 98°. Each of 
these is indispensable to health and strength. The chief part of what we 
eat is used by tiie lungs for fuel ; thh rest, excepting small portions of min- 
eral substances, such as lime, potash, sulphur, et<^., goes to the production 
of muscular and brain force. The great secret in the preparation of food 
that will prolong life and maintain a high state of health, is to adapt it to 
the peculiar conditions of those to be fed, — age, occupation, climate, and sea- 
son to be considered. Variety of food is nearly always at liand ; knowledge 
only is necessary to choose that best adapted to present needs. 

The heat of the body is produced by the action of the lungs, which uses 
up the heat-producing food, as action of muscle or brain consumes the mus- 
cle-making material. The former is non-nitrogenous; the latter nitrogen- 
ous. Foods may be divided into three groups: the nitrogenous, in which 
nitrogen is the chief element, and which feed muscle only ; the non-nitro- 
genous, chiefly carbon, which produce heat only ; and those in which both 
are united. 

It has been proved by chemical analysis that the body requires four to 
five ounces for heat to one for muscle, and this gives us the key to the 
proper proportion of the elements in food, varying slightly, of course, with 
seasons, climates, occupation, and conditions. 

The substance richest in nitrogen, the muscle-making element, is albu- 
men, found in its most perfect form in the white of an egg. The lean or 
red parts of beef, mutton, venison, and chicken contain nearly as great a 
percentage— about fifteen per cent. The curd of milk, also, contains a large 
percentage, iis well as grain, pease, and beans. If muscles only were to be 
fed, these would be nearly perfect foods, but for one ounce that goes to 
muscle, five ounces must go to heat, and this calls for carbon. 



514 



THE CHEMISTRY OF FOOD. 



The carbon needed to keep up the bodily heat comes chiefly from starch, 
which is abundant in the vegetable kingdom. Grate a potato and wash in 
a succession of waters, allowing the sediment to deposit each time, and a 
floury substance will appear, perfectly white, and dry and crispy to the 
touch. This is starch, and consists of round grains, too small to be seen 
by the eye. One-lialf of the bulk of dry starcli is carbon; the remainder 
is oxygen and hydrogen in exactly the proportion as in water; and in that 
wonderful laboratory, the stomach, the carbon is eliminated from the starch, 
and the oxygen and hydrogen combine to form water. 

Tlie starch made from \vheat is seldom used as food. Sago, Tapioca, and 
arrowroot, so much used for puddings, are almost pure starch, with slight 
coloring matter taken from the material. Corn starch is less agreeable in 
flavor, and makes a less tirm jelly when cooked. These dessert dishes are 
easily digested, and contribute carbon, but do not feed muscle, except as 
they are combined with milk, eggs, etc., in cooking, wdiich contain a little 
nitrogen and a good deal of carbon. This food, then, is not adapted to a 
working man or to growing children, who need to have their muscles fed. 
For persons of sedentary habits, especially for the aged, whose feebler res- 
piration needs a large supply of carbon to keep up heat, they are valuable 
because easily digested. For others they are of value only to supplement 
muscle-making food as a dessert. 

The following table (Prof. Yeomans) gives the proportion of starch in com- 
mon grains : 

Per Cent Starch. Per Cent Starch. 

Eice Flour, . . . 84 to 85 Barley Flour, . . . 67 to 70 
Indian ^leal, ... 77 to SOlRye Flour, . . . . 50 to 61 
Oat Meal, . . . . 70 to 80! Buckwheat, ... 52 
Wheat Flour, . . . 39 to 77 1 Pease and Beans, . . 42 to 43 

Potatoes (75 per cent water) 13 to 15. 

The large variation in wheat flour is due to processes of grinding. Va- 
rieties of wheat only vary about Ave per cent, but the old process of mak- 
ing tine w^hite flour, used only the middle or starchy parts of the kernel, 
rejecting the gluten (nitrogenous and muscle-feeding). The wdiitest and 
highest-priced flour was, therefore, least nourishing, containing the largest 
per cent of starch. Modern invention has, however, reversed this, and the 
best "new process" flour contains the largest proportion of gluten. The 
old argument in favor of Graham, that it contained a larger proportion of 
nitrogen, and better supplied the body wuth muscle-making material, no 
longer holds good. Analysis shows that the best "new process" flour and 
Graham are almost identical in these elements. The only advantage left for 
Graham is the action of the coarser particles of bran (the outer shell and 
indigestible) on the coatings of the stomach, which is often salutary, but 
sometimes injurious to the delicate membranes. When flour and bread 
made from it contains one part nitrogen to four of carbon, it is nearly per^ 
feet food, and will sustain life. 

The su])stance which is of next importance in suj)plying carbon to the 
bodv is oil (which is chiefly carbon). The oils used for food are butter, 
lard', and fat of beef. Other oils, used sometimes in cooking, are nearly iden^ 
tical with these. They contain about eighty per cent of carbon, butter hav- 
ing the least. In grains, oil varies, being nine per cent in corn meal, six 
in oatmeal, three and a half in rye, and one to two in wheat. Oils and 
starch serve the same purpose in the digestive process; both are useful to 
supply carbon ; neither nourish muscle. Starch is easy of digestion, requir- 
ing one hour, while butter is converted into chyme in three and one-half, 
mutton-fat in four and a half, and beef-fat in live and a half hours. This 
furnishes the best of reasons w^hy fats should be sparingly used, especially 
in warm and moderate weather, when a sufficient supply of carbon is easily 
secured from vegetable foods. Besides, it is a w^ell established fact that ex- 
cessive use of fats in cooking cause an excessive secretion of bile, and this, 



THE CHEMISTRY OF FOOD. 



515 



in turn, causes a sensation like hunger and an increase of saliva. This is 
mistaken for real hunger. More food is taken, and indigestion and, later, 
dyspepsia result. An eminent authority says: "I believe it will be found 
the offending ingredient in nine-tenths of the dishes that disturb weak stom- 
achs." Dyspeptics need to reject not only foods in which fats are mixed, 
but those in which they are a natural element, such as the yolk of eggs, 
liver, milk, rich cheese, etc. Yolks contain twenty-eight per cent of oil, 
and milk over three per cent. One condition only calls for the use of fats 
in daily diet: Long-continued exposure to excessive cold. One pound of 
fat furnishes as much carbon as two and four-tenths pounds of starch, or 
seven and seven-tenths pounds lean meat. When the moisture of the breath 
is converted to ice and freezes on the beard, the air has no watery vapor 
and is nearly pure, containing a large per cent of oxygen. To meet this in 
the lungs requires abundant carbon, and oils furnish this most readily. 

The best bread for cold weather is that containing most oil. Corn bread 
ranks first, oatmeal next, rye third, and wheat last. Of course compara- 
tively few are exposed to the rigors of winter in civilized life, and brief 
exposure to cold is off-set by an increase of clothing, and ordinary diet fur- 
iiishes a plentiful supply of carbon. For woodmen, soldiers, sailors, pilots, 
travelers, railroad men, and others exposed to long cold storms, especially 
when they can not exercise freely, should eat liberally of fat beef, yolks of 
eggs, and butter. Butter is the least objectionable of fats. Fat from salt 
pork and smoked bacon is less injurious than that from fresh pork. Beef fat 
is also much more w^holesome than lard. Above all, let the cook remember 
that oils are physic, and next to poison, if not blended with substances which 
contain large quantities of starch, such as rice, mealy potatoes, and bread 
made of fine wheat tlour. An ounce of lard and a pound of flour thoroughly 
blended in a loaf of bread is digestible, but the same amount added to corn 
meal (already rich in oil) would be fit food only for a Greenlander. The 
proper proportion of oil in food in ordinary circumstances is illustrated 
in milk, which contains three and one-half parts oil in one hundred. 

The next important element which supplies carbon is sugar, which is con- 
tained in greater or less quantity in all vegetable sul)stances. and largely 
(five to six and one-half per cent) in milk. Sugar contains forty per cent 
carbon, the rest water. It seems to be first converted into fat, and then 
used ill respiration. In moderate quantities it has no injurious efiects. A 
part of sugar as ordinarily eaten passes into lactic acid, and aids digestion, 
but if t0(^ much is produced digestion is retarded. 

There are two kinds of sugars in commerce. — cane and grape. The former 
is made from cane, maple sap, beets, corn-stalks, etc.; the other from plants 
which have an acid juice, ( 'aiie sugar contains twelve Y)arts carbon to eleven 
of water; grape sugar twelve of carbon to fourteen of water. Sugars are 
clianged by fermentation into carbonic acid and alcohol, but grape sugar is 
most liable to such fermentation, — cane sugar first becoming grape sugar by 
chemical combination with water. Pure cane sugar remains perfectly dry 
and unchanired in the air, while grape sugar attracts moisture, and becomes 
mealy and damp. Cane sugar dissolves more readily in water tlian grape, 
and iienre tastes sweeter. Two pounds of cane sugar sweeten as much as 
five of gra5)e. These facts give a hint to housid^eepers of g'"eat value, (frape 
sugar, which is worth only two-fifths as much as cane, is usecl largeh^ to 
adulterate the latter. The fine, floury ''powdered"' sugar is largely grape 
sugar, and is not only of much less value, but deteriorates more rapidly than 
pure cane sugar. Brown sugar, after standing for s(^me time, absorbs water 
from the air, and becomes gra])e sugar. It is, therefore, the best economy 
to buy the best white granulated sugar. 

There is another element of food which does not feed muscle, vegetable 
jelly, called pertine. This and pectine acid particularly abounds in fruits 
and berries. By the processes of ripening, the vegetable acids which are en- 
closed in little cells, burst out, are diffused through the mass of fruit, and 



516 



THE CHEMISTRY OF FOOD, 



mannfackire pectine or jelly. Heat produces the same effect as ripening, 
and cooking is, in fact, only a rapid process of ripening. This jelly, when 
combined with sugar, goes to make up a variety of delicate articles, such as 
jellies and marmalades. They are nourishing, principally, on account of the 
sugar they contain, but are easily digested, cooling, and delicious. It should 
be mentioned that nearly all fruits are rich in sugar, — a ripe peach contain- 
ing as mucli as an equal quantity of cane juice. 

There are some other substances which appear in less quantity in foods 
which seeui none the less essential to health and life. One of these is phos- 
phorus, which is an element of brain and nerves, and is wasted by mental 
activity and nervous excitement. The brain-worker demands a diet rich in 
phospliorus, and in such a form as to be easily assimilated. The food that 
best sustains a laborer in the open air is not the best for those who live 
among the excitements and exhausting demands on the brain, that are the 
rule in city life. For the latter, eggs, most kinds of fish, oysters, lobsters, 
crabs, game, cheese, and, among vegetables the potato; and these foods are 
just what are craved by city people. 

Another element is sulphur, which is required in the growth of bone and 
cartilage, the hair and nails. Of this there is so much in the yolk of an egg 
that silver is blackened by contact with it. Curd of milk and cheese are also 
rich in sulphur. 

Iron is always present in healthy blood, and its absence — paleness — is an 
indication of illness. Most articles of food contain iron ; in the juice of flesh, 
in eggs, i'nd in milk it is abundant. Lime and salt are also ingredients in all 
food, the former making bone, and the latter playing an important part in 
the creation of the digestive juices. Lime is found in all grains, particularly 
in wheat and in milk, in form of subphosphates. Bread and milk are for this 
reason an excellent ciet for growing children, as they supply not only heat 
and muscle, but lime that goes to supply the growth of bone. Salt also ex- 
ists in many articles of food. 

]Men and races grow in proportion to their skill in combining heat and 
muscle-producing foods. The hardy Scotch use oatmeal largely, which is 
rich in nitrogen. The Irish, who endure a large amount of hard labor on 
cheap fare, eat potatoes, oatmeal, cabbage, and milk, while the lime and 
phosphates are said to be derived from the "hard" water impregifeted with 
lime. The English add bacon (heat-producing) to beans, rich in nitrogen, 
and to rice, which abounds in starch (carbon), add milk and eggs, which feed 
muscle. Tlie Italian eats macaroni, which is principally starcli, with cheese, 
rich in nitrogen. The use of chemistry in cooking is to teach how to i^ippJe- 
ment one kind of food by another which contains the essential elements 
which the first lacks. For instance, venison contains fifteen per cent nitro- 
gen to fifty-two carbon, or as one to three and a half, while the ratio should 
be one to four or five. To make it perfect and satisfying food, we have 
only to supplement it with something rich in carbon, as wheat bread, oat- 
meal, potatoes, or rice. A farmer's dinner of salt pork and boiled cabbage 
is nearly perfect for an out-of-door laborer in cold weather. The cabbage is 
rich in nitrogen and the pork in carbon. It is a proper dinner dish, because 
it requires four and a lialf hours to digest, while a supper may be made on 
venison, which is digested in an hour. Beef has fifteen per cent of nitrogen, 
but is not so easily digested as venison, and is fit only for a breakfast or din- 
ner dish. Wheat bread does not contain nitrogen enough for a working- 
man's diet, and butter eaten with it does not supply the lack. Some kind of 
lean meat is needed to make perfect food. The more active the life out of 
doors the nearer can health be sustained on a diet of lean meat only. Beans 
contain, next to meats, the most nitrogen, and are excellent food for laborers. 
The cabbage ranks next, and afterward come oats, wheat, and barley. The 
potato contains seventy-five per cent, water. An analysis of the dry mat- 
ter shows one-tenth of it to be nitrogen, so that its nutritive value is neaWy 
equal to wheat, while its great productiveness 'ecommends it particularly 



THE CHEMISTRY OF FOOD. 



517 



to densely populated countries. A dozen large potatoes are equal to a pound 
of flour. 'The onion is very ricli in nitrogen,— one onion being equal to three 
potatoes of equal size in nutritive value. ^ 

Milk contains all the important elements of food; yet adults need solid 
food. Add to milk eggs, rich in nitrogen, rice and sugar, rich in carbon, and 
vou have a nutritious dish, easily digested. 

^ Butter-milk is a wholesome drink, particularly in summer, as the nutritive 
power of the milk is but little reduced by the removal of the butter, while 
the sourness, due to the formation of lactic acid, aids digestion. 

Eg^'-s contain a great deal of carbon, and are, for that reason, good food for 
cold weather. Tliey are too concentrated for exclusive diet, and should be 
eaten with coarse food, or that which is composed largely of starch. 

In making cakes, the oil of the yolks of eggs used makes the perfect blend- 
ing of lard "or butter impossible, and hence unwholesome. For this reason 
sponge cake, which contains no butter, is less objectionable. 

Breads differ but little in these elements. Corn meal contains more oil 
and less nitrogen than others, and oatmeal is richest in nitrogen. The 
easy blending of the elements, and the tough gluten of wheat, make it the 
most available grain for bread. Wheat bread alone will support life longer 
than anv other food except animal flesh. The proportion of nitrogen to car- 
bon is one to five, which is nearly correct for a sedentary person. For active, 
out-door life more nitrogen is needed, and is best supplied by lean meats. 

The nutritive qualities of animals differ but little. Wild meats digest 
more easily than tame, though the time required varies with the age and 
condition of the animal. Flesh is a stimulating diet because it is force-giv- 
in^' and muscle-feedins. The animal has gathered from various sources and 
concentrated in its flesh the constituents wdiich best meet the wants of our 
bodies in the most available form. , , , t 

^ ^.pplvinf^ the knowledge of the wants of the body, and of the elements 
of food' to a bill of fare, and a wholesome breakfast demands strength-giving 
and muscle-makim^ f(^od. Nothing is more quickly available than beefsteak, 
and it is most digestible broiled. It is a diet for real workers. Eggs are 
nutritive, but less stimulating. These provide for the muscles. For heat, 
starchv food is demanded, but bulk is not desirable for breakfast after a long 
fast Bread and cakes of wheat flour are best for the purpose, and fruits, 
raw or cooked, furnish the mild vegetable acid, which aids digestion. If cof- 
fee is taken at all, breakfast is the time, so that the stimulating effect may 
pass away before the hour of rest comes. An infusion of genuine coffee, not 
a decoction, is not injurious in the morning to most persons, and is beneficial 
to those exposed to changes of temperature. ^ ^ , mx ^ 

Nothing appeases the appetite sooner than the juice of flesh, ihe barley 
gives a color and flavor. Following soup is roast beef, which feeds the 
muscles, and after it come the puddings, which abound in carbon, to give 
tlie fuel necessarv to keep up the animal heat. Last comes fruit to aid 
di^'estion with its agreeable acids. In summer less carbon should appear 
oifthe bills of fare, and blanc manges, creams, fruit puddings and pies, 
berries, and ripe fruits should make up the desserts. 

In making a feast, the wise hostess would consider well what has been 
the employment of the guests. A party of fox-hunters, or wood-choppers, 
or surveyors, would require an abundance of meats, but a collection oi art- 
ists and scholars would relish better a variety of delicacies and novelties. A 
slei«-hing party will devour carbon, but those who have sweltered under a 
July sun long for cooling fruits and the leanest of meats. The time when 
a feast is given should decide whether food, easy or difficult of digestion, 
should appear on a bill of fare, though such consideration for the health 
of guests is hardly to be expected of the average hostess. 



MISCELLANEOUS. 



For Ivy Poison. — Apply sweet-oil. 
Rust in Iron. — Keroseiie-oil will remove it. 
To Scour Tins.— Use whiting moistened with ket-osene. 
Melted Snow— produces one-eightii of its hulk in water. 
To RexMOVE Finger-ring. — Hold hand in very cold water. 
Squeaking Boots.— Drive a pe^- into the midVlle of the sole. 
When to Paint.— Oil-paint lasts longer when put on in autumn. 
Morocco Leather— may be restored with a varnish of white of an egg. 
To Drive Nails. — Nails dipped in soap will drive easily in hard w^ood. 
Leakv Roofs. — A cement made of sand and white-lead* paint will stop 
leaks. 

To Keep off Flies.— Paint walls or rub over picture frames with lau- 
rel-oil. 

^ Door-latches and Locks — will work easily and quietly if oiled occa- 
sionally. 

Sealing Wax — is made of two parts of beeswax and one of resin, melted 
togetlier. 

To Clean Ermine. — Rub with corn-meal, renewing the meal as it be- 
comes soiled. 

Paint. — New" woodwork requires one pound of paint to the square yard, 
for three coats. 

To Clean Steel. — Unslaked lime cleans small articles of polished steel 
— like buckles, etc. 

To Harden Wood.— Cut the wood in the shape desired, and boil eight 
minutes in olive-oil. 

To Clean Russia Iron, mix blacking with kerosene, and it will look 
nearly as well as new. 

Coal Fire. — If your coal fire is low% throw on a tablespoon of salt and it 
will help it very much. 

Ink Spots on Books. — xV solution of oxalic acid will remove them with- 
out injuring the print. 

Leaks about Chimneys — may be stopped by a cement made of coal-tar 
and sand, neatly applied. 

Postage Stamps — will stick, and not turn up at the corners, if the face 
is wet after applying theiiL 

In Beating Eggs. — Do not have one particle of the yolks with the whites^ for 
if so they will not froth nicely. 

Berry Stains. — The fumes of a brimstone match will remove berry stains 
from a book, paper or engraving. 

Mice. — Pumpkin seeds are very attractive to mice, and traps baited with 
them will soon destroy this little pest. 

Dry Paint is removed by dipping a sw^ab with a handle in a strong solu- 
tion of oxalic acid. It softens it at once. 

To Keep Walks Clean. — Sprinkle with weak brine through a water- 
sprinkler, or scatter salt along the walks. 

To Clean Black Kids. — Add a few drops of ink to a tea-spoon of salad- 
oil; rub on with a feather, and dry in the sun. 

Shingles. — Dip well-sea.soned shingles in lime, w^ash and dry before lay- 
ing, and they will last longer and never take on moss. 
(518) 



MISCELLANEO US. 



519 



To Clean Wells of Foul Air. — Throw down a peck of unslaked lime. 
The heat produced carries out the foul air with a rusli. 

When a Chimney takes Fire — tlirow salt on the lire, and shut off the 
draught as much as ^xjssible, and it will burn out slowly. 

Dish-water and Soap-suds — poured about tlie roots of young fruit-trees, 
currant and raspberry bushes, etc., lacilitate their growth. 

Cheap Paint for Iron Fencing. — Tar mixed with yellow-ochre makes 
an excellent green paint for coarse woodwork or iron fencing. 

Dirty Coat-collars. — A{)pl5^ benzine, and, after an hour or more, when 
the grease has become softened, nil) it or remove with soap-suds. 

To Clean Kettles easily, pour a little hot water in them and put a covei 
on ; the steam wuU soften the dirt so that it may be easily removed. 

Onion Odors. — When cooking onions, set a tin-cup of vinegar on the 
stove and let it boil, and it is said you will smell no disagreeable odor. 

To Soften Leather.— The best oil for making boots and harness leather 
soft and pliable, is castor-oil. It is als(^ excellent for greasing vehicles. 

Color of Paint for Tools.— Tools exposed to the sun should be painted 
with light-colored paints, as they retlect instead of absorbing the heat. 

Glue^— Powdered chalk added*^ to glue strengtliens it. Boil one pound 
glue with two quarts skiumied milk, and it will resist the action of water. 

To keep Pearls Brilliant.- Keep in common, dry magnesia, instead of 
the cotton wool used in jewel cases, and they wall never lose their brilliancy. 

To MAKE Boots and Shoes Dur.\ble.— Apply to the soles four or five 
successive coats of gum-copal varnish ; and, to the uppers, a mixture of 
four parts of lard to one of rosin. Apply while warm. 

To get Light in a Well or Cistern.— Reflect it in by a looking-glass. 
Any steel or metal lost in a cistern may be drawn out by low^ering a strong 
magnet. 

To Catch Wild Ducks or Geese Alive.— Soak wheat in strong alcohol, 
and scatter wdiere they are in the habit of feeding, and take them while 
they are drunk. 

To MAKE Artificial Butter.— Render beef suet at a very low tempera- 
ture, churn it in fresh buttermilk and yolks of eggs, and treat like but- 
ter, when removed. 

Pounded Glass— mixed with dry corn-meal, and placed within the reach 
of rats, it is said, will banish them from the premises ; or sprinkle cayenne 
pepper in their holes. , 

Spots on Varnished Furniture are readily removed by rubbing them 
with essence of peppermint or spirits of camphor, and afterwards with " fur- 
niture polish" or oil. 

To Keep Seeds from the depredations of mice, mix some pieces of cam- 
phor with them. Camphor placed in trunks or drawers wdll prevent mice 
from doing them injurv. 

Furniture Filling.— Mix two gallons plaster of paris, one pint flour, 
one ounce each of pulverized pumice-stone and prepared chalk ; add one 
half gallon boiled oil and one gill Japan drying. 

To Blow Out a Candle.— If a candle is blown out by an upward instead 
of a downward current of air, the wick will not smoulder down. Hold the 
candle higher than the mouth in blowing it out. 

Time to Cut Timber.— Hard wood for timber or fire- wood should be cut 
in August, September or October. Hoop-poles should be cut before frost 
comes; cut at other times, there is danger of worms. 

A Wet Silk Hat.— Shake off the water, rub the w^ay the nap lies with 
a clean linen cloth or silk handkerchief, and hang some distance from the 
fire to dry; a few hours after, brush with a soft brush. 

To MAKE Old Varnish Dry.— " Sticky " varnish maybe dried by apply- 
ing a coat of benzine, and, after two or three days, apply a coat of good 
varnish, and let drv thoroughly before using the furniture. 

Discolorations on Custard Cups.— To take the brown discolorations off of 



MISCELLANEO US. 



cups in which custards are baked : Rub with damp flannel dipped in best 
whiting. Scouring sand or sand soap will answer the purpose. 

To Preserve Steel Pens. — Steel pens are destroyed by corrosion from 
acid in the ink. Put in the ink some nails or old steel pens, and the acid 
will exhaust itself on them, and the pens in use will not corrode. 

To keep Russia Iron Pipe or Stoves during the summer : Give them a 
good coat of coal-oil all over, and put away in a dry place. In the fall 
give it a fresh coat of oil or benzine, and rub it all off clean and dry. 

Buckeye Polish.— Take one ounce each shellac and coal-oil, half an 
ounce each linseed oil and turpentine, bottle and keep well corked, shake 
well before using and appl}^ with a sponge. Good for marred furniture. 

For Poultry. — Fish are an excellent food for poultry ; largely increas- 
ing the production of eggs. Those who have tried the experiment have 
discarded all the patent egg-producing foods in the market, and feed fish. 

Wood — may be fastened to stone with a cement made of four parts of 
pitch, four parts of pounded brick-dust or chalk, and one part of beeswax. 
Warm it before using, and apply a thin coating to the surfaces to be joined. 

Outside Garments. — Bonnets, cloaks, hats, shawds, scarfs, and the like, 
will last clean and fresh much longer if the dust is carefully removed 
from them by brushing and shaking after returning from a ride or walk. 

New Rope may be made pliable by boiling it in water for a couple of 
hours. Its strength is not diminished, but its stiffness is gone. It must 
hang in a warm room until thoroughly dried, and must not be allowed to 
kink. 

Razor Straps — are kept in order by applying a few drops of sweet-oil. 
After using a strap, the razor takes a keen edge by passing it over the 
palm of the warm hand; dipping it in warm water also makes it cut more 
keenly. 

Mica Windows in stoves (often wrongly called ''isinglass"), when 
smoked, are readily cleaned by taking out and thoroughly washing with 
vinegar a little diluted. If the black does not come off at once, let it soak 
a little. 

Arrange Flat-irons on the stove in two rows, ''heel and toe," or so 
that when ready for a hot flat you can take the next one in order without 
loss of time in trying or "sissing" them, being sure of getting the one that 
has been heated the longest. 

Chapped Hands. — Grind one side of a pumice stone; wet, and, with the 
smooth side, rub the hands. If badly chapped, oil them at night, and dry 
in by the fire; or, at night, wet the hands, and rub a little honey over 
them, drying it in before the fire. 

Chickadees in Winter, — A cup of pumpkin-seeds, set on the wundow- 
sill, will attract chickadees, and they will become quite tame, and are very 
amusing with their antics. They may be kept about the house from Decem- 
])er to May by feeding and kind treatment. 

Shellac Varnish.— Put shellac in a bottle, pour 90 per cent, alcohol to 
cover, cork tight and put in a warm room, shake occasionally, and if not all 
dissolved in three or four days, add more alcohol. This is good to varnish 
almost anv thing, and will dry in half an hour. 

Friction :Matches— should never ])e left where the mice will get them, 
as they carry them to their nests, and sometimes ignite them. They are 
poison to children, and are dangerous to women, who ignite them by step- 
ping on them, and endangering their clothing from fire. 

To Prevent Pumps from Freezing. — Take out the lower valve in the 
fall, and drive a tack under it, projecting in such a way that it can not 
quite close. The w^ater will then leak back into the well or cistern, while 
the working qualities of the pump will not be damaged. 

Valuable Cement.— Two parts, by weight, of conmion pitch and one 
part gutta percha, melted together in an iron vessel, makes a cement that 
holds together, with wonderful tenacity, wood, stone, ivory, leather, porce- 
lain, silk, woolen or cotton. It is well adapted to aquariums. 



MISCEL LA NEO US. 



521 



Cement for Rubber or Leather. — Dissolve one ounce of giitta percha 
in one-half pound chloroform. Clean the parts to be cemented ; cover each 
with solution, and let them dry twenty or thirty minutes; warm each part 
in tlie tlame of the candle, and press very firmly together till dry. 

Hot-water Proof Cement. — If properly applied, this will be insoluble, 
even in boiling water. Gelatine, five parts; soluble acid, chromate of lime, 
one part. Cover the broken edges with this, press lightly together, and 
expose to the sunlight; the effect of the latter is to render*^ the compound 
insoluble. 

To make old Paint dry. — Old paint which is ''sticky" may })e made 
hard and dry by applying a coat of benzine, then after a day or two, if tlie 
coat of paint is good, go over it with a thin coat of laquer mixed with one 
third of its bulk of boiled oil. If paint is thin apply a second coat in which 
more laquer is used. 

To Renovate Hat-bands when Stained by Sweat. — Dissolve one and a 
half ounces white castile soap in four ounces alcohol and one ounce each of 
sulphuric ether and aqua ammonia, apply with a sponge or toothbrush, rub 
smartly, rinse out with clear rain-water. This is equally good to renovate 
any cloth with fast color. 

To Thaw Out a Pump. — Pour hot w^ater directly on the ice, through a 
tin tube, lowering it as fast as the ice thaws. Ice may be thawed in this 
way at the rate of a foot a minute; while, by pouring hot water into the 
pump, the ice would hardly be affected, the hot water being lighter than 
the cold, and rising to the top. 

Water-proof Shoes. — To make shoes water-proof and make them last a 
long time, dissolve beeswax and add a little sweet-oil to thin it. Before the 
shoes are worn, w^arm the soles and pour the melted wax on with a tea- 
spoon; and then hold it close to the fire till it soaks into the leather; then 
add more till the leather ceases to absorb it. 

Diamond Cement. — Dissolve thirteen ounces of white glue in a tin dish 
containing a pint and a half soft water (set in a kettle containing boiling 
water); when the glue is dissolved, stir in three ounces of white lead, and 
boil till well mixed; remove from fire, and, when cool, add half pint alco- 
hol ; bottle immediately, and keep well corked. 

A Good Paste. — To one pint cold water add two heaping table-spoons 
flour. Put the flour in a pan, add a little of the water, stirring until 
smooth; then add the rest of the water, stir thoroughly, place on the 
stove and stir constantly until it boils. After taking from the stove, add 
one-fourth teaspoon ground cloves to keep it sw^eet. 

Piece-Bags. — White cotton piece-bags hung in the linen closet are a great 
convenience; have them made with a string to draw from both sides; 
mark in large letters in indelible ink, "Merino and Cloth," "Cotton and 
Linen Sundries," "Dress Pieces," "Old Linen," "Worsted and Yarn," 

Old Silk," "Thread and Tape," "Old Gloves," etc. 

To Remove White Spots on Furniture, caused by a hot iron or hot 
water, or to restore blistered furniture. — Rub with a No. 1 sand-paper some- 
what worn, or apply pulverized pumice stone mixed with a few drops of 
linseed oil, then with a cotton cloth rub on some shellac varnish thinned 
well with turpentine. Or, rub with spirits of camphor. 

Weight of Grain.— Wheat 60 pounds in all states except Connecticut, 
where it is 56; corn 56, except in New York, where it is 58 ; oats 32; barley 
48 ; buckwheat 46 to 50, but generally 48; clover seed 60, but 64 in Ohio and 
New^ Jersey; timothy 44; flaxseed 56; potatoes 60; beans 60, but in Ohio 
56, and New York 62; dried peaches 28 to 33; dried apples 22 to 28. 

Unfermented Wine for Communion. — Weigh the grapes, pick from the 
stems, put in a porcelain kettle, add very little water, and cook till stones 
and pulp separate; press and strain through a thick cloth, return juice 
to kettle, and add three pounds sugar to every ten pounds grapes; heat to 
simmering, bottle hot, and seal. This makes one gallon, and is good. 



522 



MISCELLANEO US, 



To MAKE Hens Lay in Winter. — Keep them warm; keep corn con- 
stantly by them, but do not feed it to them. Feed them with meat scraps 
when lard or tallow has been tried, or fresh meat. Some chop green pep- 
pers hnely, or mix cayenne pepper with corn-meal, to feed them. Let 
them have a frequent taste of green food, a little gravel and lime, or clam- 
shells. 

To Remove Oil Marks from wall paper where inconsiderate people rest 
their heads. Take pipe-clay or fuller's earth, and make into a paste, about 
as thick as ice-cream, with cold water ; lay it on the stain gently without 
rubbing it in; leave it on all night. It will be dry by morning, when it 
can be brushed off, and unless an old stain, the grease spot will have dis- 
appeared. If old, renew the application. 

Contents of (.'istern. — The following gives the contents of a cistern for 
each foot in depth. If the diameter at top and bottom differ, strike the 
average and use that as tlie basis of the estimate : 

5 feet diameter 4.66 barrels. 8 feet diameter 11.93 barrels. 

6 " " 6.71 9 " 15.10 " 

7 " " 9.13 10 " " 18.65 " 
Cochineal Coloring. — To a pound of w^ool take two gallons of rain- 
water, one ounce cream tartar, one and a half ounces cochineal, two 
ounces solution tin, one-fourth ounce turmeric; first, put the cold water 
in a copper kettle and let it boil, put in the cream tartar; in live min- 
utes, the cochineal ; in live minutes, solution tin; in hve minutes, turmeric; 
in five minutes, yarn ; boil an hour ; stir all the time. Rinse in cold water. 

Stove Polish. — Add to one pint benzine, one ounce pulverized resin; 
when dissolved, mix any good and finely ground black lead, using the above 
just the same as you would water for mixing stove polish. Apply with a 
small pftint brush, and rub it smooth, as it dries rapidly ; when dry, polish 
with a soft stove brush ; very little rubbing is required. For sheet-iron 
use the benzine and resin alone, apply with soft rags, and rub rapidly until 
dry and shining. 

to Keep Silk.— Silk goods should not be folded in white paper, as the 
chloride of lime used in bleaching the paper will impair the color of the 
silk. Brown or blue paper is better; yellow India paper is better still. 
Silk intended for dress should not be kept in the house long, as lying 
in folds causes it to crack or split, particularly if thickened with gum. 
White satin dresses should be pinned up in blue paper, with coarse brown 
paper on the outside, sewed together on the edge. 

To KEEP Paint'-brushes. — Turn a new brush bristles up, open, pour in a 
spoonful of good varnish, and keep in that position until dry, and the bris- 
tles will never " shed" in painting. The varnish also keeps it from shrinking 
and falling to pieces. As soon as a job is finished, wipe brush clean, wrap 
in piece of paper, and hang it in a small deep vessel containing oil, letting 
the brush descend into the oil up to the wrapping cord. This will keep 
painting and varnish brushes clean and ready for use. 

To Remove Stains from the Hands. — Damp the hands first with water, 
and then rul) them with tartaric acid or salts of lemon, as you would 
with soap; rinse tliem, and rub them dry. Tartaric acid or salts of lemon 
will (juickly remove stains from linens. *^Put less than a half tea-spoon of 
salts or acid in a table-spoon of water, wet the stain with it, and lay it in 
tlie sun for at least an hour; wet it once or twice in the time with cold 
water. If it does not remove the stain, repeat and lay it again in the sun. 

Stammering. — If not caused by malformation of organs, reading aloud, 
with the teeth closed, for at least two hours a day for three or four monihs 
will cure stammering. 



MISCELLANEO US. 



523 



To Soften Sponges. — A sponge when first purchased is frequently hard, 
stiff and gritty. To soften it, and dislodge the particles of sea-sand from its 
crevices, having first soaked and squeezed it through several cold waters, put 
the sponge into a clean tin sauce-pan, set it over the fire, and boil it a quar- 
ter of an hour. Then take it out into a bowl of cold water, and squeeze it 
well. Wash out the sauce-pan, and return the sponge to it, filling up with 
clean, cold water, and boil it another quarter of an hour. Repeat the pro- 
cess, giving it three boils in fresh water, or more than three if you find it 
still gritty. Take care not to let it boil too long, or it will bt^onie tender 
and drop to pieces. 

Extras Thrown in. — To purify a room of unpleasant odors, burn vinegar, 
resin, or sugar ; to make chicken gravy richer, add eggs found in chicken, or, 
if none, yolk of an egg; soak garden seeds in liot water a few seconds before 
planting ; to prevent cholera in chickens, put assafoetida in water they drink, 
and let them pick at coal ashes; in using hard water for dish-water add a 
little milk ; to clean ])aint, add to two quarts hot water, tw^o table-spoons tur- 
pentine and one of skimmed milk, and only soap enough to make suds, and 
it will clean and give luster ; iron rust on marble can generally be removed 
Avith lemon-juice ; a thin coat of varnish applied to straw-matting makes it 
more durable and adds to its beauty. 

Bologna Sausage. — Take equal portions of fresh pork, veal, and ham 
or salt pork, chop them fine or grind, and mix together thoroughly ; to nine 
pounds of the meat allow ten tea-spoons powdered sage, two each of cayenne 
and black pepper, one grated nutmeg, one teaspoon cloves, one minced 
onion, and sweet herbs to taste ; mix well and stuff into beef intestines. 
(Wash the intestines thoroughly and cut them into lengths of two yards 
each ; turn inside out, and again wash thoroughly in warm water, scraping 
with a scraper made for this purpose ; throw into salt water to soak till used. 
Great care will be necessary in cleaning cases to avoid tearing them.) Tie 
lip both ends of the bag tightly, prick in several places, and boil slowly 
for an hour ; tlien dry them in the sun, and hang them in a cool dry cellar, 
after rubbing the outside of the skins with melted butter. These are eaten 
without further cooking, and are very nice. 

Black for Woolens. — One ounce vitriol, one ounce extract logwood to 
tW'O pounds goods ; color in iron. Dissolve the extract overnight in warm 
water; pulverize the vitriol, put it into boiling water sufficient to cover the 
goods ; wash the goods well, rinse in warm water, then simmer a few" min- 
utes in vitriol water; lake out, wash thoroughly in clear w^ater, then dip in 
boiling logwood dye till the color is good, stirring often and lifting up so it 
will get the air; dry, then wash in a suds and rinse. In renovating black 
alpaca that has become rusty, dissolve the logwood only, as nothing is needed 
to set the color. Wash the goods well in suds, rinse, dip in logwood dye, boil 
a few minutes, stirring and lifting to air. When dry, wash again in suds and 
rinse in water in which a little gum arable has been dissolved, and press 
smoothly on the wrong side while damp. Dyed in this way the color will 
not rub off more than from new goods, and looks as good as new. When 
extract of logwood is used, it is only needful to boil enough to dissolve be- 
fore putting in the goods. 

The Cistern. — An abundant supply of good water is a necessity for every 
house, and capacious cisterns are a necessity. T^wo essential requisites are 
good hydraulic lime and clean pure sand. The hydraulic cement becomes 
in a few months as hard as sandstone, but the sand must never exceed two 
parts to one of lime. The cheapest form of cistern is simply a hole dug in 
the ground with sides sloping like those of a narrow bottomed tub. The 
water lime mortar is applied directly to these sides, the shape of the sides 
sustaining the mortar until it hardens. The breadth of such a cistern, if 
large, makes it diflScult to cover, but this may be done with a plank sup- 
ported by strong scantling, over which should be placed earth to the depth 
of the lowest frost. There must be a hole through the covering, left for 



524 



MISCELLANEO US. 



cleaning, which should be curbed, and may admit the pump if the locality 
is right, or a pipe may go from cistern into cellar below the frost line, 
and thence to the kitchen. The mortar on the walls should never be less 
than an inch thick, and they should have at least two coats, and three are 
better. x\s the mortar begins to dry in a very short time after mixing, it 
is best to mix the lime and sand dry, and apply water to small quantities 
at a time as needed. A more capacious cistern may be made at a greater 
expense by digging a hole with perpendicular walls, and laying walls of 
brick in the form of the upper half of a barrel, on which to lay the mor- 
tar. This form has a smaller top, and is much more easily covered than 
the other. The wall should be laid as well as plastered with water-lime. 
A filtering attachment is made by building a small receiving cistern beside 
the larger one, with filtering apparatus between them, or a strong wall 
may be built through the middle of the cistern, receiving the water in one 
division and filtering it through into the other. 

Lime-water and its Uses. — Place a piece of unslaked lime (size is imma- 
terial, as the water will take up only a certain quantity) in a perfectly clean 
bottle, and fill with cold water; keep corked in a cellar or cool dark place; 
it is ready for use in a few minutes, and the clear lime-water may be used 
whenever it is needed. When the water is poured off, add more ; this may 
be done three or four times, after which some new lime must be used as 
at first. A tea-spoon in a cup of milk is a remedy for children's summer 
complaint ; also for acidity of the stomach ; when added to milk it has no 
unpleasant taste. When put into milk that would otherwise curdle when 
heated, it prevents its curlding, so that it can then be used for puddings 
and pies. A small quantity of it will prevent the " turning" of cream and 
milk. It also sweetens and purifies bottles which have contained milk. 
Some add a cupful to a sponge of bread to prevent it from souring. 

The Lightning Rod. — When properly put up, the lightning rod is a per- 
fect protection ; but, when not scientifically constructed, is only a source 
of danger. The following are essentials : 1. It must extend several feet into 
the ground so as always to be in contact with moist earth, or irito a never-failing 
supply of water ; 2. It must be sharp at the top, and, if there are several 
points, all the better; 3. It must be half as high above the top of the build- 
ing as the distance horizontally to the most remote part of the roof of the 
building; 4. It should be large enough to convey off every discharge with- 
out being melted or broken ; 5. The best material is iron with copper 
below the surface of the ground, as iron rusts away rapidly in the moist 
earth. Copper is the best conductor, but costs more, and is not as stiff to 
withstand the wind. One-half to five-eighths of an inch in diameter is large 
enough. Bright points are not essential, and glass insulators are of no use 
whatever, as when wet they are good conductors, and, even if they were 
not, a small charge even would leap across the short distance from the rod 
to the iron staple. The best way to fasten the joints, is to weld them, 
which any blacksmith can do, passing the rod through opposite doors of 
his shop, afterwards dragging it home. If the building is so high that it 
can not be readily put up in one piece, the best joint is made by screwing 
the two ends firmly into one nut. The points are easily made by welding 
several smaller wires to the large one, and filing them sharp. A rod will 
protect a space the distance of which is four times the height of the rod. 
The cheapest and best support is wood. The only point to be c6nsidered is 
to secure the rod firmly. The round rods are the best. If there are iron 
water-pipes or steam-pipes in the building, they should all be connected 
with the lightning rod, or directly with the moist earth, eight or ten feet 
below the surface. 

Canary Birds. — Do not keep in a room that is being painted or has odor 
of new paint. Do not hang over a stove or grate which contains fire. Do 
not set the cage in a window, and shut it down upon it; the draft is injuri- 
ous. Do not wash cage bottom, but scrape clean with a knife, and then put 



MISCELLANEO US. 



525 



on some fresh gravel; the moisture breeds red mites, and is injurious to the 
bird. Do not keep the birds you intend to breed in the spring together 
during the winter. Do not keep single birds in a room where others are 
breeding, or males and females in mating season in the same room in sepa- 
rate cages, as it is likely to cause mating fever. Feed canary on rape seed, 
but no liemp. For diarrhoea put a rusty piece of iron in dish water, changing 
water not oftener than twice a week, and bread boiled in milk as for asthma; 
boil well in this case, so that when cold it will cut like cheese; give freely 
with plenty of vegetables. 

Moulting is not a disease, yet during this season all birds are more or less 
sick, and some suffer severely. They require plentv of nourishing food. 
Worms, insects, and fruits to those which eat thenii ; and to those which 
live upon dry seeds, bread dipped in milk, fruit and vegetables. 

The German metallic-enameled cages are the best — white and green (a 
combination of) or a light chocolate are the best colors ; they are not painted 
as are the cages made here in America, but the color is burnt into the wires. 
Avoid wooden or brass cages, also conical " fountains " for food and drink ; 
for the latter, square or round cups of china or glass are the best. The 
perches should be plain, round, unvarnished sticks, and no two of the same 
size. Clean the cage thoroughly every morning. Prepare fresh, clean bath- 
ing and drinking water, and if sand is used on the bottom of cage, clean it 
(the sand) by boiling in water. Scrape the perches well, and twice a week 
plunge them in boiling water to kill any red mites that may have lodged 
there. Give plenty of seed, also green parts of many plants, sucli as poppy, 
rape, liemp, etc. ; also the seeds of weeds like the chickweed, plantain, etc., 
and the fresh, tender leaves of beets, cabbage and lettuce. Avoid fruits con- 
taining a large percentage of acid, but give occasionally a hard-boiled egg. 
Never give them sugar, but all the red pepper they will eat. It is the best 
thing for them. And if your bird feels hoarse at any time, put a piece of fat 
salt pork in the cage and see how the little fellow will enjoy it. Give him 
flax-seed once in a while, and if he appears dumpy occasionally give him a 
diet of bread and water, with red pepper sprinkled in. 

For lice, cleanliness is the best preventive, but not always sure. For cure 
you have simply to cover your cage at night With a white cloth, rise early in 
the morning, remove the cloth and dip in scalding hot water. Repeat every 
night as long as there shall be found any vermin upon the cloth. 

In raising birds, make just half the fiiss directed in the bird-book over the 
matter, and you will have, doubtless, better success. 

Coloring.— In coloring always use plenty of water, never crowed the goods, 
taking care that they float in the liquid. * In rinsing always use plenty of 
clear water, and in preparing goods for coloring, clean off afl dirt and grease 
spots. To test color of dye, pour it from a dish held high, and look through 
it to the light. A pound of extract of logwood is equal to four pounds of 
logwood chips. Fustic should be boiled in a sack of open texture; the other 
ingredients are put into the w^ater. All black goods should be washed in 
soap-suds after coloring. 

To color Woolen fine Claret. — Boil thirteen pounds of goods two hours with 
seven pounds of camwood, one-tenth pound logwood, and one-fourth pound 
of copperas to darken. 

To color Woolen Russmn-brown. — For thirteen pounds goods, boil two pounds 
fustic and four pounds camwood an hour, and if too light color add one-tenth 
pound each copperas and alum, to darken. 

To color Woolen Bottle-green. — Boil ten pounds woolen with one-tenth pound 
chrome, one-fifth pound alum; take out, put in a vessel of clean water three 
pounds fustic and one and a half pounds logwood, and boil another hour. 

To color Woolen Black. — For twenty-five pounds of goods, boil goods in a 
solution of five-eighths pounds each bichromate of potash and blue vitriol, 
andone-lialf pound argol, one hour; take out, refill kettle with clean water, 
and add three pounds dissolved extract of logwood ; put in goods and sim- 



526 



MISCELLANEO US. 



mer one hour and a half* take out, rinse, scour with soap, and dry. This 
makes a blue-black. To make a jet black, add three pounds fustic with the 
logwood. 

To color Cotton Blue. — Put ten pounds cotton, two and a half pounds cop- 
peras, ill fifteen to twenty gallons water, and boil two hours; after boiling, 
take out, rinse in clear water, refill kettle with water, and add one-half 
pound prussiate of potash. Boil goods in this half an hour, lift out goods, 
and slowly add one-naif pound oil of vitriol ; return goods, and boil half an 
hour. Rinse in clear water and dry. 

ty 

To color Cotton Green. — Add eight pounds fustic and one-half pound alum 
to the blue mixture of the preceding rule, put in goods and simmer until 
the required shade of green is obtained. 

To color Cotton Chrome-yellovj. — For fifteen pounds cotton goods or yarns 
dissolve eight ounces of white sugar of lead in one tub, and eight ounces of 
chrome in another. Put goods first in with sugar of lead, wring out goods 
well, and shake back into the liquid again, repeating the operation five times 
(in order to make the goods absorb as much color as possible); then put 
theui through the chrome tub in the same way ; then return again to the 
sugar of lead tub. treat as before, rinse off well, and dry. To make a dark 
shade, use brown sugar of lead, repeating three times in the sugar of lead 
and twice in the chrome. 

To color Cotton a good Black. — To a tub of cold water add for twenty pounds 
goods, five pounds sumac, wring and shake out goods and return to liquid a 
few times, let stand all night in sumac, then to another tub of water add a 
few pails of lime-water, put in goods, wring out, and put into another tub of 
cold water in which is two pounds of dissolved copperas and a pailful of old 
sumac liquor, wring out six times; wring out and put into the lime- tub 
again, adding two more pails of lime-water. Prepare another tub of water, 
and adding to it six pounds of logwood and one pound of fustic previously 
scalded, put in the cotton, and wring out and return ten times; lift out, 
darken liquid with a little copperas, and return the goods. The omission 
of the sumac gives a purplish black, while the recipe as above gives a jet 
black. 

To color Silk Royal-bhie. — Take ten pounds of silk, make up a tub of nitrate 
of iron at six degrees, to which add one pint of good muriate of tin and four 
ounces of tartaric acid ; wring out and return, repeating for about an hour ; 
in another tub £^d one and a half pounds of dissolved prussiate, and one gill 
of oil of vitriol. Wash goods out of iron tub, and put into prussiate tub, 
repeat in iron twice and once in prussiate, wash out of the iron, and put in 
a tub in which oil of vitriol until it tastes sour has been dissolved ; give six 
wrings to clear off any rust that may adhere to it. More prussiate will pro- 
duce a darker, and a less a lighter color, but the same quantity of iron 
and tin must be used. 

To color Woolen-yarn Yelloii' -brown. — For ten bunches dye with two pounds 
of camwood, five pounds fustic, one each of logwood and copperas. 

To color Woolen-yarn Scarlet. — Boil eight pounds yarn one hour with one- 
half pound cochineal, two pounds of young fustic, seven-tenths pound of 
white or brown tartar, three-tenths of a quart of oxalic muriate of tin. 

To color Ladies' Cloth Pnrple. — For twenty-five yards goods, boil two and a 
half hours with ten pounds of alum, two pounds of argol, and one-fourth of 
a quart nitrate of tin ; wash well, and finish with seven and a half pounds 
logwood and one pound of peach wood in a clean vessel. Put in cool in 
finishing, and heat to boiling point. 



Note.— The compilers take pleasure in acknowledging their indebtedness for many 
valuable points embodied in this book, to " Care of the Sick ; " " Accidents and Emer- 
gencies; " " Health Hints," published by Cowan & Co., New York; " In the Kitchen," 
by Mrs. Elizabeth S. Miller, and many other excellent works. 



THE INDEX. 



It will help those who consult this book to remember that the recipes of 
'each department in Cookery, as well as the departments themselves, are 
arranged in the simple order of the alphabet, so far as has been possible, and 
that the "running heads" at the top of each page show the subject treated 
below. There is also a full Table of Contents at the beginning, for ready 
reference to departments. The following is a complete alphabetical index 
to all recipes given and subjects treated. 



Page 

Almonds 371 

Shelled 160 

To blanch 80 

To powder 113 

To select 160 

Ambrosia 161 

Apples. 

Baked 161 

Baked, Sweet 161 

Baked, Sour 161 

Black caps 162 

Compote 161 

Corer for 160 

Fried 162 

Iced 162 

Sauce 161, 252 

Snow 107 

Sauce, dried 252 

Sauce, cider 252 

Asparagus 324 

Ambushed 324 

Fried 325 

With Eggs 325 

To gather 321 

Baking Powder 33 

Bananas, Fried 162 

Beans 

Butter 326 

Dry Lima 327 

String 327 

String, canned 126 

With Pork 327 

Beef. 

A la mode 1% 

Corned, boiled 195 

Croquettes 3f>4 

Dressing 279 

Ragout of 197 

Roast, with Pudding. ...197 

Roast 197 

Stewed 198 

Beefsteak. 

Broiled 194 

Fried 194 

Stuffed 366 

Toast 363 

With onions 195 

Beef Tongue. 

Boiled.. 196 

Spiced 198 

Beets 325 

Baked 326 

Greens 32P 

Pickled 326 

-Roasted 326 



Page 

Berries. 

Canned 122 

Plain canned 122 

BiLi^s OF Fare 348-3.")2 

Christmas Dinner 350 

Economical Break fasts. 350 
Economical Dinners ....350 

For Spring 348 

For Summer 348 

For Fall 349 

For Winter 349 

New Year's Dinner 351 

New Year's Lunch for 

callers 351 

Refreshments for 

twenty 351 

Refreshments for one 
hundred and seventy- 
five 352 

Lunches 350 

Thanksgiving Dinner.. 350 

Birds. 

Fire for 167 

How to pluck 167 

Time to roast 168 

To broil 167 

To lard 168 

To roast 168 

To stuff. 168 

Wild flavor of 168 

Biscuit. 

Hard tea 37 

High 37 

Maple 37 

South Carolina 38 

Soda 32 

Soda 38 

Spoon 38 

Stale 33 

To bake 31 

To glaze 31 

To knead 32 

To make 31 

Blanc Mange 107 

Green 108 

Pink 108 

Yellow 108 

(^hocolatc 108 

Raspberry 109 

Blackbernes, dried 252 

Billed Fmner 325 

Bonny Clabber 364 

Br E A D- C RU M B.s 362 

For vastry 263 



Page 

Butters. 

Apple 250 

Caper 133 

Drawn 133 

Egg 250 

Lemon 250 

Pie Plant 251 

Pumpkin 250 

Scotch 114 

Bread 7-32 

Brown- 27 

Brown, Boston 26 

Brown, Eastern 27 

Brown, Horsford 27 

Buttermilk 18 

Corn 16 

Corn 28 

Corn, Boston 27 

Corn, fire for 16 

Corn, Mrs. B.'s 28 

Corn, boiled 28 

Corn, plain 29 

Corn steamed 29 

Corn, to cut 16 

Cold weather 12 

Dough in winter 13 

French loaves 11 

Flour for 8 

Forefather's 28 

Graham 29 

Graham 30 

Graham, fire for 16 

Good 18 

Graham, quick 30 

Hop-yeast 19 

Hot weather 11 

In summer 24 

In winter 24 

Making 10 

Oven for 12 

Rye 30 

Rye 31 

Rye and Indian 30 

Pan 10 

Baking pan 10 

Poor man's. 20 

Potato sponge 19 

Potato 20 

Ready for oven 12 

Raised once 21 

Raised twice 23 

Raised three times 23 

Salt Rising 25 

Sour 12 

To bake 12 

(527) 



528 



INDEX, 



Page 

Bread. 

To cool 19 

To knead 11 

To mix 10 

To salt 12 

When too hard 13 

When done 13 

With mush 27 

Buns 84 

Cabbage. 

Boiled 325 

Creamed 331 

Delicate 331 

Fried 331 

Heidelberg 330 

Southern 332 

Stuffed 382 

Cake. 

Almond 66 

Angel's Food 65 

Black 66 

Black 67 

Breakfast 34 

Bread 67 

Bride's 67 

Buckeve ». 66 

Butter for 60 

Caramel 69 

Cinnamon 34 

Cincinnati 69 

Citron for 62 

Chocolate 69 

Choice Fig 73 

Cocoa-nut 66 

Cocoa-nut 69 

Coffee 68 

Corn Starch 68 

Corn Meal 3t)3 

Currants for fruit 62 

Delicate 69 

Eggless 70 

Eggs for 59 

Election, Old Hartford.. 70 

Everlasting 70 

Fruit 71 

Fruit 72 

Fruit, Apple 70 

Fruit, excellent 72 

Fruit, loaf 71 

Fruit, Poor Man's 72 

Fruit, pan for 64 

Fruit, Scotch 72 

Groom's 73 

Hard money 73 

Hayes ' 73 

Hickory nut 66 

Hickory nut 74 

How to beat 60 

How to mix 60 

Imperial 74 

Lady's 74 

Lady's Yellow 74 

Lemon 74 

Loaf, Aunt Hettie s 75 

Loaf, French 75 

Loaf, old fashioned 75 

Making 59-61 

Marble 75 

Marbled Chocolate 76 

Milk for 00 



Page 

Cake. 

Molasses 101 

One egg 76 

Orange 76 

Oven for 63 

Pans for 63 

Paper cap for 63 

Phil Sheridan 78 

Pound, Citron 76 

Pound, Pyramid 76 

Pound, White 77 

Rice 77 

Snow 78 

Sponge 77 

Sponge, Mrs. J.'s 78 

Spice 78 

Temperance 61 

Tea 39 

Ten-minute 79 

Thanksgiving 72 

Tilden 79 

Time to bake 63 

Tin-wedding 79 

To beat eggs for 60 

To color 93 

To mix fruit 61 

To test 64 

To test oven 64 

Watermelon 79 

Wedding 79 

Where to keep 65 

When rough 91 

White 79 

White perfection 80 

Whipped Cream 68 

Cakes, Layer. 

Almond 80 

Almond Cream 81 

Caramel 83 

Chocolate 84 

Chocolate, delicious 84 

Cocoa-nut 

Cup 84 

Dominoes 84 

Fig 85 

French Cream 82 

Golden Cream 82 

Hard Times 85 

Hickory-nut 86 

Ice Cream 83 

Kelley Island 86 

Lemon 87 

Metropolitan 88 

Minnehaha 87 

Neapolitan 88 

Orange 88 

Orange 89 

Peach 89 

Ribbon 89 

Rolled Jelly 86 

Snow, favorite 89 

Sponge, velvet 90 

Thanksgiving 89 

To bake 80 

To build SO 

To cut 80 

Vanitv 90 

White Mountain 90 

Cakes. 

Ada's Sugar 97 

Breakfast and Tea ....31-33 



Page- 

Cakes. 

Ginger 100' 

Ginger-drop 101 

Hickory-nut 117 

Candy. 

Any flavor 115 

Hoarhound 117 

Ice Cream 116 

Lemon 117 

Molasses 118 

Syrup for 113 

Stick 113 

Cans. 

Glass 119 

Glass, to prepare 120 

How to fill 120 

Putty for 119 

Rubber rings for 121 

Self-Sealers 121 

Stoneware 119 

To clean 119 

To seal 119 

Canning. 

Fruit for 119 

For pies 120 

How done 120 

Sugar for 120 

Caramels 115 

Chocolate 116 

Cocoa-nut 116 

Carrots, stewed 327 

Catsups 128 

Cucumber 129 

Currant 129 

Fruit for 128 

Gooseberry 129 

Mold on 128 

To make 128 

Tomato 129 

Tomato 130 

Cauliflower. 

Boiled 329 

Escaloped 330 

Baked 330 

Charlotte-russe 104 

Charlotte-russe 105 

Cheese. 

Cottage 365 

Pigshead 204 

Cherries. 

Canned 125 

Dried 245 

Chicken. 

Baked 275 

Baked Spring 275 

Baked with parsnips.... 275 

Broiled 276 

Breaded 276 

Croquettes 276 

Croquettes, with rice. ..364 

Chill colorad 276 

Dressing 279 

For Lunch 277 

Fricasseed 279 

Fried Spring 280 

Fried Gumbo 280 

Gravv without cream. ..280 

.Jellied 280 

Pickled 281 

Pressed 281 

Pie „ 278 





Page 


Chicken. 




,. 278 




277 




279 




, , .279 




.281 




274 1 




,. 273 ' 


Chocolate 


142 1 




148 1 




143 1 




, 148 


Chow-chow 


, , 257 i 


Clam. 






290 








.. 296 




. 296 


Cobbler. 






222 1 


Fruit 


•>•>•) , 




222 


Plum . 


, 222 




,,, .142 




... ,160 




65 


Cod Fish. 






IM 


Balls 




Boiled 


154 




154 






Coloring for Cakes 


, Etc. 




. ,93 


Confectionerv 


113 




137 




141 




139 




141 


For one hundred ... 


141 




138 




,,. 139 




141 




137 






With whipped cream...! 41 




97 




97 


Good 


, 98 




,. ,, 100 




98 




97 


Corn. 






126 


And Tomatoes canned. 12(5 


And Tomatoes cooked. 828 








126 


Dried 


245, 328 




,.829 


Hulled 












Crackers. 




Egg 


45 




45 




, 297 


Cracked Wheat 


48 




48 


Baked on griddle.. 


4S 







INDEX. 









.102 


Bohemian 


108 


Gelatine lor 


102 




105 


How to beat 


102 




,, .105 




, ,.10-i 


Pine-apple 


.104 




,,, lOti 


Rock 


106 ! 




,10;; 


Spanish 


106 i 


Tapioca 


106 i 


Whipped 


106 i 




.107 1 








88 




95 


Fat for 


94 




48 




132 


Currants. 






128 


Dried 188, 253, 245 




, .162 




123 




266 




102 




107 




107 




102 


Boiled 


102, 109 


Chocolate 


109 




103 








110 


Hiden Mountain. 


Ill 




.,102 




,110 




Ill 


Orange Souffl6.... 


112 




112 




110 




342 




332 


Dodgers, Corn 


45 


Doughnuts 


94-% 


Berlin 


96 


Fat for 


94 


Corn Meal 


95 




95 


North Star 


96 


Ole koeks 


96 


Raised 


96 




187 


Drops. 




Almond Cream... 


116 




..115 




116 




116 




101 


Walnut 


116 


Duck 


...169 


Boiled 


172 




169 




172 




178 




172 


Dumplings. 




Apple, baked 


228 




227 



521> 

Page- 



Dumplings. 

Apple, rolled 22a 

Peach, baked 228- 

Eggs 145 

Baked 147 

Boiled 147 

Boiled 145 

Birds' nest 147 

('urried 147 

Fi izzled Ham and 148 

Poached 148 

Pickled 149 

Scalloped 147 

Scrambled 149 

Stuffed 149 

Time to cook 145 

To test 145 

To keep 15a 

To fry 145 

Egg-plant. 

Baked 33a 

Fried 832 

In cakes 333 

Fat 4^ 

And drippings 367 

Favorite's Sweetie's 364 

Fish 151 

Baked 15a 

Boiled 154 

Boiled White 155 

Broiled White 155 

Chowder 156 

Fresh, potted 157 

Fried 156 

Garnishes for 153 

Kettle 152^ 

Pan 157 

Stewed 158 

To make firm 153 

To fry 152 

When frozen 151 

Wire basket for 152 

Flour ..7-8 

Buckwheat 52 

Graham 18 

Potato 366 

Floating Island 10» 

Force Meat Balls 309 

Fragments 321 

Fricatelli 201 

Fried Cakes 95 

Fritters 49 

Apple 49 

Apple 50 

Clam 50 

Corn Oyster 50 

Cream 50 

Egg plant 287 

Fat for 49^ 

Fruit 49 

Lemon 50 

Ovster 51 

P" rk 49 

To improve 49^ 

Vanity 51 

Frogs. 

Broiled 201 

Fricas.seed 201 

Frosting 91 

Frosting 92 

Almond 92' 



530 



INDEX. 



Page 

Frosting. 

Boiled 92 

Boiled Almond 93 

Chocolate 92 

Eggless 93 

Eggs for 91 

Gelatine 93 

Hickory-nut 92 

Minnesota 9o 

Ornamental 93 

Pink 93 

Rose coloring 93 

Yellow 93 

Pruit 159 

Dessert of 159 ! 

Dried, to keep 245 | 

Frapp6es 177 i 

Sliced, to serve 160 

Fuel, value of 346 

<Jame 167 

Broiled 167 

Delicate dressing 168 

Garnishes for 169 

Time to roast 168 

To lard im 

Wild flavor of 168 

<jEMS. 

Cold water 46 

Graham 46 

Mrs. B.'s 47 

Sweet Milk 47 

Wh eaten 44 

Giblets, to boil 273 

"Gingerbread 99 

Alum 99 

Excellent soft 100 

Old fashioned 99 

Sponge 100 

Geese. 

To parboil 16S 

To roast 171 

<jOoseberrif:s. 

Canned 123 

Spiced 266 

■Gooseberry fool 1 62 

Grapes 159 

Spiced 266 

Gravy, to make 366 

Greens, preserve color 321 

-Grits 48 

-Griddle-cakes 51 

Batter 53 

Bread 53 

Buckwheat 52 

Corn 53 

Crumb 53 

Flannel 53 

French 52 

Graham 54 

Horsford 52 

Indian 54 

Rice 55 

<jridiron, best 193 

Ham. 

Balls 363 

Boiled 201 

Boned 201 

Broiled 202 

Delicious fried 202 

Escaloped .367 

Grated 367 



Ham. 

Stuffed 367 

Hare, jugged 169 

Harvest drink 143 

Hash 361 

Turkey 361 

Herring, baked 157 

Hoe-cake 31 

Hominy 48, 329 

Horse Radish for winter..! 36 

Ice-cream 174 

Ice-cream 177 

Ice-cream 17s 

ChcK'olate 177 

Chocolate fruit 177 

Cocoa-nut 175 

Coffee 175 

Eggless 177 

Flavor for 175 

Kentucky 179 

Lemon 178 

Molds for 176 

Orange ...,178 

Peach 178 

Pine-apple 178 

Raspberry 175 

Sell-freezing 176 

Strawberry 175 

Strawberry 178 

Tea ISO 

To freeze 174 

Ices. 

Apple 179 

Currant 179 

Lemon 179 

Orange 179 

Strawberry 179 

Water 180 

Jams 188 

Blackberry 189 

Currant ...188 

Gooseberry 189 

Grape 189 

Plum 189 

Raspberrv 189 

Stirrer for 188 

Strawberry 189 

Sugar for 188 

To keep 188 

To put up 188 

Jelly 181 

Apple 182 

Apples and Quince 186 

Bag 186 

Blackberrj^ 182 

Calves' foot 182 

Coffee 184 

Crab-apple 184 

Cranberry 183 

Currant 183. 2,53 

Easter 184 

Four-Fniit 185 

Grape 185 

In winter 362 

Lemon 185 

Orange 185 

Peach 186 

Pie Plant 187 

Potato 366 

Quince 186 

To put up 182 



Pagft 

Jelly. 

To make firm 182 

Wild Plum 186 

Johnny-cake 46 

Ala bama 46 

Jumbles 98 

Cociia-nui 98 

To finibh 97 

Ki«lncys stewed 207 

Kisses' 

Buckeye 114 

Pan for 113 

L.\MB. 

(hops 200 

Stewed w^ith Pease 200 

Lemons, to select 159 

Lancashire Pie 363 

Lady's Fingers 87 

Lemonade 143 

Lettuce, wilted 333 

Liver. 

Fried 198 

Larded 199 

Macaroni 333 

Boiled 334 

With Tomatoes 334 

Italian 334 

Macaroons. 

Almond 114 

Hickory-nut 117 

Mackerel, salt-boiled 155 

Mangoes 260 

Marmalade 214-251 

Crab-apple 186 

Crab-apple for pies 186 

Orange 251 

Peach 251 

Qnince 252 

Wild Plum 186 

Meats 190 

Broiling 192 

Frozen 193 

Frying 193 

Garnishes for 194 

Pie 367 

Roasting 191-2 

Time to bake 192 

Warmed over 321 

With dressing 192 

Melons 159 

How to serve 159 

Nutmeg, to serve 159 

Meringues 117 

Meringue 211 

Mince-meat 219 

Appleless 218 

To make pies of 219 

To pack 219 

Molasses, to clarify 363 

Moonshine Ill 

Muffins 33 

Corn 45 

Graham 47 

Wheat 44 

Mush. 

Blackberry 229 

Corn 46 

Fried 46 

Graham 47 

Graham, fried 47 

Oat-meal 47 



INDEX. '^>'^1 



Page ! 

Mustard, prepared 136 ■ 

Mutton 200 : 

Boiled, Caper sauce 200 

Chops 200 

Pie with Tomatoes 363 [ 

Kutmeg-melon, spiced. ...266 ; 

Nut-taflfy, Aunt Top's 118 

Oatmeal, steamed. 48 

Okra. 

Boiled 334 

And Tomatoes 334 

Omelet 146 

Baked 146 | 

Beef 364 I 

Cheese 147 ' 

Easily made 146 

Ham 146 

Puff 148 

To make 146 

Vegetable 146 

With Parsley 147 

Onions. 

Baked 334 

Boiled 335 

Fried 335 

Oranges. 

In jelly 163 

To select 159 

Float lU 

P>'ramid 163 

Souffle 112 

-Oysters 295 

Boiled 297 

Broiled 297 

Broiled with Pork 297 

Croquettes 297 

Curried 298 

Deviled 298 

Escaloped 298 

For soups 295 

Fried 299 

Fricasseed 300 

Fritters 301 

Omelet 301 

Panned 301 

Pickles :-?02 

Pie :^01 

Raw 302 

Roll 302 

Shell 30;-5 

Stew 303 

Steamed 303 

To fry 295 

Walled 30:? 

Parsnips. 

Baked 340 

Fried 340 

In cakes 3".3 

Stewed 340 

Paste 212 

Good common 212 

Graham 212 

Puff 212-13 

With Suet 214 

Wholesome shortening.210 

Pastrv 210 

Peaches 159 

Baked 163 

Canned 123 

Canned, steamed 123 

Canned 124 



Peaches. 

Dried 245 

Frozen 164 

Peach. 

Custard 166 

Figs 253 

Meringue 165 

Pyramid 164 

Rolls 234 

Pears 159 

Baked 163 

Canned 124 

Compote 164 

Pease. 

Green 340 

In Cream 340 

Pept)er-nuts 98 

Pheasant, broiled 169 

Pie Plant. 

Baked 163 

Canned 124 

Stewed 163 

Pickerel, baked 153 

Pickles 254 

Alum in 254 

Artichokes 255 

Bean 256 

Bottled 256 

Butter-nut 264 

Celery 2o8 

Cauliflower 258 

Chow-chow 257 

Chopped 2d9 

Cucumber 258 

French 262 

Kettle for 254 

Onions 262 

Peaoh mangoes 261 

Peppers 262 

Piccalilli 262 

Pyfer 262 

Ripe tomato 263 

Spanish 263 

To bottle 254 

To put up 254 

Variety 263 

Virginia mixed 264 

Walnut 264 

Pickles. 

Sweet 265 

Sweet 36J 

Beet 265 

('lingstone 267 

Currant 266 

Grape 266 

Peach 267 

Pear 267 

Pine-apple 268 

Plum, euchred 268 

Raisin 268 

Ripe cucumbers 265 

Strawberry 268 

Tomatp. green 26^ 

Tomato, ripe 269 

Watermelon 269 

Pies 210 

A pple cu stard 215 

Apple-butter custard.... 364 

Apple meringue 214 

Apple sliced 215 

Banana 215 



Page 

Pies. 

Cherry 218 

Chess 217 

Crab-apple 215 

Crumb 216 

Currant, green 217 

Currant, ripe ..217 

Custard 217 

Cream 216 

Corn starch 216 

Cocoa-nut 216 

Dried apple 215 

Dried peach ...221 

Eggless squash 366 

Lemon 218 

Meringue for 211 

Mince 220 

Mock mince 220 

Orange 220 

Peach 2'20 

Peach 221 

Pie-plant 220 

Pie-plant, frosted 220 

Pine-apple 222 

Potato 221 

Potato, sweet 221 

Pumpkin 221 

Mince, temperance 219 

Southern tomato 222 

Tins for 211 

To bake fruit 211 

Tomato, green 222 

To prevent bursting.... 211 

Juice running over 211 

Juice soaking through-.211 

Vinegar 222 

W^hipped cream 216 

Pie Crust, Aunty Phelps..212 

Pigeons, to cook ..168 

Pig, baked 202 

Pine- apples 160 

Canned 124 

To keep 164 

Plums, canned 125 

Pocket-books 36 

Popoyers 35 

Pork 

And beans, Yankee..... 205 

Roast 204 

Salt, fried 204 

Spare-rib 205 

Steaks, fried 204 

Pot-pie. 

Chicken 277 

Spare-rib 203 

Potato f:s. 

A la Duchesse 364 

A ia Lj'onaise 366 

A la Parisienne 338 

And onions 336 

Baked 335 

Boiled in jackets 335 

Cakrs 364 

Flour 366 

Fricasseed 365 

Fried 365 

Fried raw 336 

Fried whole 336 

Frozen 322 

In jackets 337 

Kentucky style 337 



532 



INDEX. 



Potatoes. 

Mashed 336 

New 337 

Ringed 339 

Rissoles 339 

Saratoga 339 

Souffle 338 

vSeven ways 33H 

Sweet, baked 339 

Sweet, fried 3:^9 

Sweet, steamed 339 

Sweet, with beef 

Texas 339 

Poultry 271 

Garnishes for 275 



To lard 

To skewer and stuff. 



.272 
272 

Prairie Chickens 170 

Broiled 169 

Preserves 243 

Apple 245 

Apple 249 

Carrot 246 

Cherry 246 

Citron 246 

Citron 25.3 

Fig 247 

Peach 247 

Pear 247 

Plum 248 

Quince and apple 248 

Strawberry 249 

To can and harden 243 

To clarify 244 

Tomato 249 

To skim 244 

Watermelon 249 

Wild crab apple 244 

Pudding 225 

Apple roley poley 227 

Apple tapioca 239 

Bird's nest 228 

Boiled 225 

Bread 228 

Brown Bettv 228 

Carrot, English 231 

Chocolate 229-30 

Christmas, plum 234 

Cloths for 225 

Cocoa-nut 230 

Cocoa-nut 23?< 

Cottage 230 

Corn starch 229 

Cream 230 

Dates for 226 

Delmonico 231 

Estelle 231 

Fig 231 

Fruit 231 

Half-hour 232 

Indian, baked 232 

Indian. boile<i 232 

Kiss 232 

Lemon 233 

Lemon, delicious 233 

March 233 

Minute 233 

Molasses 234 

One-two-three-four 234 

Oven for 226 

Orange 234, 236 



.22'/ 
227 



Page 

Pudding. 

Fine-apple 236, 238 

Plum 236 

Plum, Christmas 234 

Plum, eggle.ss 235 

Plum, English 235 

Plum, prairie 236 

Potato 237 

Poor man's 236 

Prune 237 

Putr. quick 237 

Queen of 237 

Rice 238 

Rice snow balls 2;^ 

Sago and apple 238 

Strawberrv 229 

Suet 239 

White 239 

Whortleberry 239 

Puff-paste 211 

Puffs. 

Bread 35 

Cream, Boston 81 

Cream, Buckeye 82 

Preserve 222 

Quails 

Broiled 169 

Broiled 276 

On toast 170 

Roasted 170 

Quinces, baked 164 

Rabbits 173 

Raisins 160 

To seed 62 

Reed Birds 172 

Raspberries. 

Canned 125 

Float 166 

Relishes. 
Horse-radish 136 

Rice 341 

Apples 228 

How to boil.. 341 

In milk 341 

Pudding 238 

Southern 341 

Snow-balls 238 

Rock Candy, to make 113 

Roley-Poley. 

Apple 227 I 

Apple -butter 227 

Cherrv -227 

Driedfruit 227 

Jelly 

Orange 

Rolls. 

Breakfast 39 

Coffee 40 

Corn 45 

Pinner or French 40 

Egg 40 

Every day 40 

French 40 

Italian 41 

Long breakfast .39 

Minnesota 41 

Parker House 41 

Wedding, sandwich 42 

Winter 42 

Vienna 43 

Rusk 30 



Page 

Rusk. 

Lebanon 3(5 

Salad 287 

A'jparagus 288 

Bean 289 

Cabbage 289 

Celery for 287-288 

Chicken 290 

Cucumber 291 

Dressing for 293 

Dressing, bottled 293 

Dressing, mayonnaise.. 293 

Dressing, potato 294 

Ham 291 

Herring 291 

Lettuce 291 

Lobster 291 

Potato 292 

Salmon 292 

Sidney Smith's 288 

Tomato 293 

Sally Lunn 39 

Salmon. 

Baked 153 

Breakfast 156 

Canned 156 

Salsify 341 

Fried 342 

In cakes ..342 

Stewed with codfish 342 

With toast 342 

Sandwiches, mixed 363 

Sand-tarts 98 

Sauces for Meats 128 

Bread 131 

Caper 132 

Celery 132 

Chili 132 

Cranberry 131 

Cream 132 

Curry powder 132 

Hollandaise 134 

Horse radish 136 

Lemon 134 

Mayonnaise 134 

Mint 134 

Onion 135 

Oyster 135 

Roman 135 

Tartare 135 

Tomato 1:^5 

Tomato, green 133 

Sauces for Puddings. 

Butter for .226 

Butterless 240 

Cider 240 

Cocoa-nut 240 

Cream 240 

Cold cream 240 

Cream, plain 240 

Every day .241 

Foaming*. 241 

Hard 238 

.lelly 241 

Lemon 241 

Maple sugar 241 

Minnehaha 241 

Orange, hard 242 

Pine-apple 242 

Strawberry 242 



INDEX. 



533 



Page 

Bauces for Puddings. 

Temperance 226 

Vinegar 242 

Whipped cream 242 

Sausage, toast 868 

Scrapple 865 

Scrapple, Phila 863 

Scraps, to save 868 

Shad, baked 158 

Shell-fish 295 

Sherbets 144 

Shortcake. 

Orange 223 

Peach 223 

Raspberry 228 

Strawberry 223 

Shrub, raspberry 144 

Slaw. 

Cream 289 

Cream dressing for 298 

Plain cold 289 

Snaps. 

Ginger 101 

Ginger, hotel 101 

Lemon 98 

On rainy days 99 

When moist 99 

Snipe 173 

Snowflak.es 165 

Soda. 

Pure 33 

Rule for 33 

Beer 144 

Soup 304-307 

Asparagus 310 

Bean 811 

Bean, Saturday 312 

Bean, meatless 312 

Bean, turtle 312 

Beef 310-311 

Beef, with okra 311 

Bread, dice for 819 

Carrot 812 

Celerv, cream 818 

Chicken 313 

Clam 309-313 

Coloring for 819 

Economical 309 

Green corn 813 

Gumbo 318 

Mock turtle 314 

Mutton 314 

Noodle 315 

Okra .315 

Oyster, with milk 315 

Oyster 315 

Poached eggs with 317 

Pot au feu 315 

Pea, green 816 

Potato .316 

Sauces for 307 

Swiss 316 

Thickening for 806 

Tomato 316 

Tomato, meatless 317 

Turkey bone 317 

Vegetablft . 318 

. 318 



Page 

SOUPSTOCK 807 

Economical 308 

How made 307 

How used 308 

Rich 307 

Souse, pigs' feet 203 

Spices, use of 103 

Spinach 343 

Sponge. 

And bread 17 

For winter 17 

How made 9 

Squab pie 363 

Squash. 

Summer 342 

Winter 342 

Strawberries. 

Canned 125 

Mock 165 

Oranged 165 

With whipped cream. ..165 

Stew. 

Breakfast 364 

Brown 197 

Stews 366 

Steak pudding 363 

Succotash 343 

With pork 343 

In winter 343 

Suet, to keep 194 

Sweetbread. 

Larded 208 

Fricasseed 208 

Stewed 208 

Fried 208 

Roasted 208 

Syrup, Lemon 144 

Table. 

Cook's time 347 

Of weights 346 

Of measures 346 

Tarts. 

Apple 223 

I Almond 223 

i Cocoa-nut 224 

Shells 224 

Tea 140 

Iced 144 

Lemon 144 

Pot, sack for 140 

Toad in the hole 199 

Toast 

Breakfast 35 

Buttered 34 

Mennonite 34 

Excellent 35 

Tongue. 

Beef 196 

Spiced beef 198 

Tomatoes. 

Baked 343 

Canned 126 

Escaloped 344 

Figs 253 

Fried 344 

Sliced .344 

Stewed 344 

Toast 345 



Page 

Trifles 97 

Tripe. 

Fried 199 

Fricasseed 199 

Soused 199 

Trout. 

Baked 153 

Brook 155 

Turbot 158 

Turkey. 

Boned 281-282 

Boiled 282 

Escaloped 8(>4 

Fat for stuffing 288 

Roast 283-2c^4 

Roast, English 286 

To plump 283 

To roast 273 

To steam 273 

With oyster stuffing 285 

Turnips. 

Baked 345 

Diced 345 

Steamed 345 

Veal. 

Cutlets, fried 206 

Loaf 206 

Roast loin of 207 

Stew 207 

With oysters 209 

Veget ab les 320-324 

Add sugar to 321 

Time to cook 321 

Odor while cooking 321 

Venison. 

Hams, smoked 169 

Roast haunch 171 

Vinegar. 

Celery 270 

Cheap 362 

Clover 269 

Mint 269 

Spiced 270 

Waffles 44 

Corn 364 

Quick 44 

Raised 44 

Rice 45 

Wafers, sweet 45 

Watermelon 

To serve 159 

Canned 127 

Welsh Rarebit 365 

Woodcock 167 

Broiled 173 

Fried 173 

Yankee dried beef 365 

Yeast 54 

Dry 55 

Farmers' 56 

Hop 56 

Potato without hops 56 

Potato 56-57 

Yeast 57 

Yeast without yeast 58 

Yorkshire pudding 197 

Zest, lemon 103 



534 



INDEX—SUPPLEMENT J E Y. 



Pac;e 

Accidents 492-495 

Ants, to kill 384 

Apples, to keep 459 

Apple-corer 115 

Arts of the toilet 484 

Asthma, to relieve 500 

Babies 460-5 

Bandaging 461 

Bathing 462 

Clothing 461 

Food for 461 

Good air for 462 

Intelligent care of 461 

Nursing sore mouth 435 

Prenatal life 460 

Regular meals 461 

Rest needed 461 

Sleep of 462 

Water for 462 

Bad breath 485 

Bad smells 871, 380, 3S4 

Bath, the 487 

Beauty 484 

Dress, to enhance 488 

Food necessary for 484 

To preserve 484 

Beans for winter 408 

Bed-bugs, to kill..378, 380,389 

Bedding 374 

Bed-room 373 

Beef 421 

Corn-fed 421 

Dried 437 

How to cut up 432 

How to corn 436 

To carve sirloin 430 

Spiced corned 433 

Beefsteaks 421 

Packed for winter 434 

Beef Tea 483 

Raw 478 

Bites. 

Mad dogs 498 

Serpents 498 

Blankets, to wash 447 

Bleeding, to stop 500 

Books, to preserve 387 

Boots, to make durable. ..519 

Bosom-board 417 

Brass-kettle, to clean 406 

Breaking dishes 403 

Broken bones.. 492 

Brooms, to keep 391 

Burns 499-501 

By alkalies 492 

By acids 492 

Burning houses 493 

Butter 438 

Artificial 519 

To keep fresh 439 

Cabbage 459 

Cake-pan, new kind 417 

Calico 443 

Buff, to remove color... 445 

Chemistry of food 512-17 

Canary birds 527 

Carpets 371 

Cheap 385 

Grease-spots on 384-385 

To clean well 377 

How to lay 377 



Page 

Carpets. 

Moths under 381 

Stair 377 

Sweeping 372, 386 

Carpet Rags 384 

Carving 430-431 

Catarrh 503-504 

Cement 386-387 

Diamond 521 

For china 384, 406 

For knife handles 406 

For rubber or leather... 521 

Hot- water proof 521 

Valuable 520 

Chamois skin, to wash. ..386 

Charcoal 407 

Chickens, to select 424 

Chilblains, cure for 493 

Children, lost 384 

Chimney. 

On fire 519 

Leaks about 508 

Cistern .523 

Contents of 522 

Chair bottoms 386 

Choking 492 

Chromos, to clean 884 

Closets 390 

For bed room 373 

Clinkers 406 

Clothes 440 

How to dry 441 

How to fold 442 

How to iron 442 

How to sprinkle 442 

How to starch 442 

How to wash 440 

Coal 412 

Coal ashes for walks 384 

Cochineal, coloring 522 

Cockroaches, to kill 384 

Codfish, to select 426 

Coffee syrup 408 

Coloring 525-6 

Colds 499-501 

To break up 467, 502 

Coffee, to keep 428 

Coffee-pot, to clean 408 

Comforters 373 

Complexion, to improve. 489 

Wash for 489 

Constipation 505 

Coral, to make 384 

Corn Starch 405 

Cqrpulency, to cure 485 

Cough mixture -503 

Cough, to cure 501 

Cranberries 391 

Croup, cure for 504 

Cellars 375 

Dining room 392 

Dinners, formal 392 

Dinner 393 

Etiquette of 393-395 

Host and hostess 394 

Haspitality, vulgar, etc. 395 

Invitations, 394 

Individual manners.... 394 

Order of courses 394 

Discolor from bruise 500 

Dishes, to wash 397 



Dish-cloths 397, 409 

Diphtheria 506 

Doors, to make tight 387 

Drains 379 

Dress, to iron 442 

Dres.sing for cuts, etc 500 

Drinking at meals 467 

Drying corn 409 

Drowning 496 

Ducks, to select 424 

Dust-pan, new 416 

Dyspepsia 470 

Ear 487 

Foreign body in 493 

Eels, to select 426 

Embroideries, to iron 442 

Enameled ware 403 

Erasive fluid 445 

Ermine, to clean 518 

Erysipelas, cure for 501 

Extracts, how to make.. 412 

Alcohol for 413 

Fruit juices 413 

Lemon 412 

Orange 413 

Oil for 413 

Rose -113 

Vanilla 412 

Eyes, to preserve 488 

Fainting 493 

Felon, cure for 504 

Filter, cheap 386 

Fire kindler 406 

Fire, to start 386, 401 

Finish for room 387 

Fish 425 

Best kinds of 425 

How served 431 

Flannels, how washed.. 452 

In warm water 448 

In cold water 443 

In boiling water 449 

Fleas, to drive off. 384 

Floral 509-11 

Frames 387 

Flies off gilt 384 

Rustic 385 

To retouch gilt 387 

Freckles, to remove 488 

Frozen limbs 494 

FueL to buy 429 

Furnace 371 

Furniture 370 

Buckeye polish for 520 

Dust spots on 373 

Eastlake. 370 

Filling for 519 

How to buy 371 

Modern 370 

Polish 378, 385 

Shellac varnish for 520 

To clean 378 

White spots, blisters 521 

Game 423 

To keep a long time.423-424 

Geese, to select 424 

Girls 418 

Hours of work for 419 

How to manage 418 

Room of 419 

Glass stopper, to remove.406 



INDEX— S UPPLEMENTAB Y. 



535 



Pa2;e 

Glue, to strengthen 519 

Grained wood, to clean... 382 

Grapes, to keep 459 

Groceries, to buy 427 

Hair 490 

Baldness 489 

Dyes for 490 

Gray 490 

Superfluous 486 

Wash for 489 

Halibut, best 426 

Ham 433 

To carve 431 

To cure 434, 436 

To keep 433-434 

To smoke, new way 433 

To select 423 

Hands 486 

Chapped 485-486 

Stains on 485 

Warts on 485 

Hat bands, to clean. 521 

Hat, wet, silk 519 

Headache, to cure.... 500, 502 

Hearths, to clean 385 

Hints to hired girls 420 

Hints about marketing. ..421 

Horsford biscuit 409 

House ...370 

Furniture for 370 

Sunlight in 371 

The model 370 

Housekeeping 369 

As an accomplishment.369 

How to learn 369 

Wrong ideas of 369 

Housekeeper's alphabet..391 

House-cleaning 374-381 

How to begin 375 

The easiest way of 375 

Hulled corn 411 

Ice-house 457 

How to fill 458 

Ice-water, to keep 386 

Ink. 

Indelible 388 

Spots on books 518 

Stains 388 

Insect destroyer 407 

Ironing-board 442 

Iron ware 400, 402 

Irons, care of 449 

Ivy poison 518 

Jars, cover 406 

Jaundice 499 

Jet, cement for 484 

Jewelry, to clean 485 

Kalsomining 382 

Kerosene 400 

To test 400 

Kettles, to scrape 399 

Kid Gloves. 

Black, to clean 518 

Kitchen 398 

Economy in 398 

Floors of 398 

Lamps for 398 

Kitchen Apron 401 

Pockets in 399 

Kitchen Table 398-399 

Wooden mats for 401 



Kitchen utensils 414 

Knife board 416 

Knives 401 

For peeling 416 

Rust on 406 

To clean 403, 406 

Lace 442 

Curtains, to wash 451 

Ruchings, to wash 448 

Lamb 423 

To keep after killing.... 423 

Lamps 400 

Wicks of 38.5, 400 

Chimneys 385, 400, 406 

Lard 4;^ 

To keep from molding.434 

Larding needle 416 

Laundry, the 440 

Leanness, to cure 486 

Lemons, to keep 458 

Life preserver 4l»2 

Lightning 493, 524 

Cream 385 

Lime-water 524 

Liniment 499 

Cherokee 500 

Lips, Chapped 486 

Cold cream for 486 

Lobsters, to select 425 

Lock Jaw, cause of 495 

Lungs, the 501 

Mackerel, to select 426 

Management of help 418 

Marble, care of 387-388 

Matches, care of 520 

Mats, cheap 387, 389 

Mattresses 374 

Meats 421 

Casks for 405 

How to cut and cure. ...436 

To keep fresh 434 

Raw, for invalids 478 

Smoked 437 

Mending 384 

Mice, to catch 518 

Milk, to preserve 405 

Mirrors 387 

Molds for jellies 415 

Moles, to remove 485 

Mosquitoes, to keep off... 485 

Moths 380-381 

Moving 389 

Muslins, Colored 446 

Delicate, to wash 446 

Muslin, to bleach 451 

Mustard plaster 503 

Mutton 422 

How carved 480-431 

How cut up 433 

Neck, beauty of 484 

Neuralgia 502 

Nose 487 

Foreign body in 494 

Nutmegs 405 

To test 391 

Oil Cloths. 

To clean 386 

To mdke durable 386 

Oranges, to keep 405 

Onion, smell of 407 

Oysters 457 



Page 

Paint 382 

Cheap for iron 519 

Old to dry 519 

Quantity to yard 518 

To take out 444 

When to apply 518 

Paint brushes, to keep 520 

Painting, how done 383 

Paintings 387 

To clean 387 

Pancake lifter ,415 

Panics 492 

Pantry 3'jy 

Cover for shelves 399 

Paper on tin 386 

Papering 382 

Parcels 384 

Parlor, the 372 

Parsley, to keep 458 

Parsnips, to keep 391 

Partiks 395 

Breakfast ..395 

Dinner 396 

Evening 396 

Paste 382 

Perpetual 388 

A good rule for 388 

Pastry 405 

Peel orange and lemon.. ..391 
Pearls, to keep brilliant. ..519 

Pease, for winter 459 

Perfumery 491 

Pheasants, to buy 424 

Piano, care of 373 

Piece-bags 521 

Piles, cure for 500 

Pictures, how to hang. 378-385 

Pillows, how to air 374 

Pimples, to remove 484 

Pneumonia, oil silk for. ..500 

Preserve jars 407 

Programme for week 383 

Poisons, antidotes for 498 

Polishing iron 416-17 

Polishing powder 407 

Pork 423 

To cut up 433-435 

To salt 435 

Poultry 423 

To keep along time 423 

To dress for market 428 

Potatoes, boiled, baked 

and roasted 407 

Pump, to thaw 521 

Putty, to remove 384 

Quick vinegar 407 

Rhubarb vfnegar 408 

Red ants 405 

To drive off. 384 

Rheumatism 504 

Roofs, leaking 518 

Rugs, rag, to make 385 

Runaways 492 

Rust on iron and steel 405 

Russia iron, to keep 520 

Salmon, to buy 426 

Salve for cuts 501 

Sausage 434, 523 

Saner kraut 410 

Scalds 495 

Scarlet fever 505 



^36 



INDEX— SUPPLEMENT AB F. 



Page 



Scorch in ironing 447 

Scrap-bag 373 

Sealing-wax 518 

Sea-sickness 500 

Sick for the. 

Beef-tea 483 

Beef-tea soup 478 

Broth, beef 473 

Barley water 478 

Baked milk 477 

Buttermilk stew 477 

Buttermilk mulled 478 

Bran biscuit 481 

Broiled beefsteak 480 

Broiled chicken 478 

Broiled quail 478 

Broth, chicken 477 

Cinnamon tea 479 

Cream soup 477 

Crust coffee 477 

Corn meal gruel 483 

Cracked wheat pud- 
ding 480 

Custard, arrowroot 479 

Custard, sago 477 

Drinks 475 

Egg gruel 477 

Egg, raw 480 

Fever drink 478 

Grease on broths 477 

Graham gems 479 

Jellice 478 

Milk porridge 481 

Mutton broth 480 

Oat meal 478 

Oat meal wafers 481 

Old time food 482 

Panada 479 

Raspberry relish 477 

Raspberry vinegar 479 

Prepared flour 481 

Rice jelly 479 

Rice, parched 477 

Sago jelly pudding 479 

Sassafras tea 477 

Sea moss farine 478 

Shrub currant 478 

Stewed oysters 480 

Tapioca jelly 479 

Tamarind whey 477 

Vegetable soup 478 

Wine whey 477 

SiCK-ROOM, *FOR 472 

Bed and bedding 473 

Cooling wash for 477 

Conveniences for 472 

Quiet in 473 

Skewers, metal 416 

Sitting-room, the 373 



Page 

Silks 522 

Dress, to wash 446 

j Embroideries 443 

i To cleanse 450 

I Silver 387 ! 



To clean 403-406 

To keep 383 

Sink 398-403 

Movable 384 

Sheets, to renew 384 

Shirts 452 ' 

Shirt-bosoms 451 ^ 

Enamel for 445 

How to iron 442 

Shoe-pockets for doors 390 ■ 

Snipe, to select 424 

Soap 384^53 

Dish 417 i 

Gall 447 

Hard 450 

Hard times 445 ' 

Sore eyes 501 

Sore throat 416 

Soldering liquid 409 

Spice cabinet 416 I 

Sponge, to cleanse 384, 523 \ 

Sprains, wash for 500 

Squeaking boots 518 

Stains.. 447 

Fruit, hands, or linen. ..522 ' 

Nitrate of silver 445 

On spoons 405 

Starch 448 

Coffee 445 

Flour 447 

Steaming-kettle 417 

Stiff joints 500 

Stimulants 467 

Stings 501 

Of insects 498 

Store-room, the 457 

Stoves 371 , 

Pocket 417 : 

Polish 522 ' 

Sunburn, to remove 485 j 

Sunstroke 496 ! 

Suflfocation 495 ' 

Sugar, kinds of 428 | 

Sweetbreads 422 

Table 392 

Chairs for 394 

Clearing 396 \ 

Covers for 407 \ 

Decoration 392 ! 

Linen to mark 409 ! 

Manners at 392 i 

Table" Cloth, to clean 408 j 

Tea-kettle boiler 416 



'>3ge 



Table. 

Tea-pot, to clean 408 

Tea ground. 406 

Teeth 487,489 

Tetter, to cure 484 

Tin, to prevent rust 407 

Tin pans, new 400 

Tin ware, to mend 385 

To brighten 405 

Tongue 423, 431, 434 

Toothache, to relieve 501 

Tripe 436 

Tumblers, to wash 408 

Turkeys, to select 424 

Turnips, to keep 458 

Varnish, to dry old 519 

Veal 422 

How carved 430 

How cut up 433 

Vegetables 458 

To buy 426 

To pack 459 

Velvet, to clean 444 

Venison 424 

How carved 431 

Ventilation 371 

Vienna lime 407 

Walks, to keep clean 518 

Wall paper 382 

To clean 388 

Warts, to remove 485 

Washing fluid 447, 452 

Washing in summer. ...443 

Washing day 440 

Washing soda 444 

Water. 

To filter 413 

To soften 384, 406 

Poisoned 406, 411 

Weeds in walks 385 

Weight of grain 521 

Well, to light 519 

Whitewash 380, 384 

White zephyr, to cleanse.443 
Whites or eggs, to beat. ...405 

Windows 384 

Wire table ware 405 

Whooping cough 502 

Wine lor communion 521 

Wood- WORK 377, 379 

Clean before pain ting., 385 

Wood ware 400 

Worms, cure for 502 

Wounds 494 

From rusty nails 500 

Woolen goods 452 

To iron 452 

To color black 523 

Work-baskets 390 



