$ 



4/* 



^5 



TX 715 
.N425 

Copy 1 



OTHCE 



B0IMSTIO ABTISli^, 



Being a ValuahU Compendium of 



^ T 



11 or 







^-"cpPYR/G,,;:v^^J;^ 



And a Companion to i r q ^f 



THE "0. K." DOUBLE WASHBOARD. 



Published by the Manufacturer 

/OF THE 
K." DOUBLE WASHBOARD, 
J. H.'NELLIS, Caxajoharie, New York. 



^-^'>^.< 



Publishers' Preface. 

No apolog^y seems necessary for ])resentiug another book of 
Recipes for public consideration. It cannot be denied that 
many, in fact most of the Heceipt books, are too voluminous, 
and ar^-loadcM:! with much useless matter, that the inexperi- 
eticed housewife cannot cull out except by experl; , -nts, which 
are ex})ensive and many times exasperating-. In publisliing- a 
book for gratuitous distribution to purchasers of aii article 
which necessarily bears but a small margin of prolit. tlie con- 
clusion of the reader must be that tho Ijook cannot be very 
largv. or c:>stly. While we exptx-t to [)resent a little book of 
CTwlitabki appearance, its sterling merit will consist iu the 

UEAL'VjVlUK of KAOir AXI) EVERY llKCll'V.. Thei'*' i- UO gUCSS 

work' regarding the utilits' of these recipes, as lh(^ compiler is 
a pe.r.>on of extended experience, and by test and comparison 
l>as iriubmitted only such as are known to he valuable. 

If tho usefulness of this . little work b(^ such as to make it 
very popular, the publisher, may, at no remote day, deem it 
prudent to publish a more comprehensive and tlioroughly 
clasiUlled work. In the meantime, we submit for your hearty 
approval our little. "Domestic AuvisePv," and its most ex- 
cellent companion, the ''O. K." Double ^V'asli Board. 

The Plblishek. 



Entered acoonling to tho act of Congres.s, In tlie year 1880, by 

J. II. NELLIS, 

In the office of tho Librarian of Conyress, at Washinjirtou. 



®hc IJontcsittc :^dri5iev, 



SOFT SOAP. 

To a pound can of Babbitt's cositeiitratod potash, add 3 
gallons water, boil until all is dissolved, then tai^e half of the 
lye and add 3 pounds good, clean soap grease and boil till it 
becomes thick. As it begins to thiclven add the remainder of 
the lye gradually. Let it boil slowly so that it will not boil 
over, if it boils down before it becomes soap, add 8utR<?ient 
water to keep about the some quantity, until it becomes soap. 
Then add 9 gallons water and stir well together. 

Remaiiks. — It will bo understood that when lye is too 
strong it will not make soap, therefore, if the kettle, wiiile 
boiling, is not kept about the same quantity, the lye would 
boil down too strong before the soap is made. 

*'0. K." means all right, and whoever buys an *'0. K." Double Wash- 
board, is sure to be all right, as it is a pleasure to work with it, ar.d it 
lasts so lo))g that you nro sur^ to gi!t your luoyey's worth. 

HARD SOAP. 

Take one pound Babbitfs Concentrated Potash, dissolve in 
twelve quarts water in a kettle calculated to make the soap. 
Add to the lye live pounds grease, and boil slowly until it be- 
comes soap, which will take one to live hours. Add water to 
the kettle as it boils down. Keep about the same quantity in 
the kettle until it becomes soap. Then add three ounces com- 
moi salt, and boil ten minutes, whicli will separate the water 
from the soap. If rosin is wanted, melt that in a separate 
kettle. Add lye with it imtil it becomos thick, Avhich will 
take about one qiiart to a pound rosin. Then add the i*osin to 
the boiling soap before the salt is add'>d. The salt causes tlie 
soan to separat'^ from the wntcr and I'ise upon the top. Wlien 
cold it <;an be taken off. or dij)ped into moulds while hot. 



CHEAP HARB SOAP. 

.Vtiil io 10 quarts Of waLer, G pound.- of quick liine and 6 
pounds of C'oninioa washintr soda. Put together and boil 
0!ie-half liour. I^et it stand over night to clear. Draw off 
the lye and add 1 pound common rosiii and 7 pounds fat. 
P.oSl one-half hour. Let it stand to cool and cut into bars. 

HARD SOAP. 

Take. 3 pounds sal soda. U. pounds stone lime. 2 gallons 
rain water, boil 15 minutes, tlien let it settle and i)Our off the 
clear lye. Put 3 pounds clean grease in a ketth\ and bring to 
ii boiliiig heat, then a<ld the lye gradually until it becomes 
soap, boiling all the time: turn into moulds or a tub to cool; 
cut into cakes and dry. This soap is mild and especially de- 
sirable for washing hands. 

The al>ov(; hard soa))?; may b(; {iterfunuHJ Just before tliey 
jwre cold. ' - 

The zinc used in the*''0. K." Double Washboard is heavier than is 
ordinarily cmployiMl, honc'O the boivrd is more dnrabh- thun most of 
the waehtioardM in the market. 

W^ ASHING FLUID. 

One pound sal soda, one-half pound stone lime. 5 quarts 
rain water. P»oil a sli<»rt time, stirring occasioj)ally. Then 
let it settle and pour off the clear fluid into a stone jug. and 
cork for use. One teacup of the fluid is used to a boiler 
*>f cio'thes, and one-half cup should be added to each subse- 
quent boiler full. 

The "O. K." Double Wusliboanl is as cheap as any other board 
ehiitn tag half its nK>rit,4. 

HOW^ TO MAKE WASHING EASY. 

Plac<i all the linen and cotton garments into a tub, putting 
those most soiled at the bottom. Pour clear water, (almost 
boiling hot.) over Piem. and let stand for one-half hour. 

Take another tub and make a warm suds. Wring the fine 
clothes out of the first tub and rub them on an ''O. K." Double 
Wa.sh board. Have a boiler half full of water ready, to which 



3 

add a cupful of the washing fluid. Hub soap on the stained 
spots and put the garments in the boih'r and boil one-half 
hour. Kemove from tlie boih'r and proceed tiuis with the 
coarser garments, adding one-half cup fluid to the boiler at 
each subsequent boiling. 

When the clothes come out of the boiler they are put into a 
tub of cold water. Examine again and rub out all dirt not 
previously removed. Slight rubbing between the hands is 
suflicient, as the fluid loosens all dirt remaining. 

Kinse through one or two waters, the latter with bluing 
added, and hang uj) to dry. 

Bleaching is unnecessary when this washing fluid is used. 

Soak the 'woolen and colored clothes in the water in which 
the clothes have been boiled, doing the woolens flrst. The 
fluid will brighten the colors of the colored articles. Flannels 
should always be well soaked, and washed in lukewarm suds, 
as hot water shrinks them and makes them hard. 

The "O. K." Doublu Wiishboard is \i<j;hi :uk1 vi'.ry strong. 

HOW TO STARCH L.INEW. 

First procure a wax candle and pulverize it. To 1 large 
tablespoon of good starch add 1 small teaspoon of the wax. 
Mix in cold water to the consistency of thick cream. Have 
ready a teakettle of boiling water, and ]jour it on the starch, 
stirring very fast, until transparent. Be careful not to add 
too much water. Put collars and cutis into the hot starch 
and let them remain until the shirt fronts have been innncisid 
and rubbed thoroughly betwe(>n the hands. Squeeze < ut the 
cuff's and collars and hang all up to dry. AVhen dry, tlu- linen 
is dipped in thin, cold starch, and ironed in the ordinary way. 
Then it is dampened with a wet cloth and a polishing iicu 
pressed over it. This is an ordinary iron, ground eft" so that 
the edges are rounding. To this last manipulation, the lineti 
is indebted for the peiMiliar laundry gloss which we all so 
much admire. The boiled starch remaining should be thim ed 
with cold water, then table linen, skirts, &c., can be starched 
and dried. When the clothes are perfectly dry, lay all starch- 
ed articles (except (Miffs, collars and shirts.) upon a sheet and 
sprinkle with a whisk broonj kept for the purpose. Cover 
with i; fchcct ti^!o:: LliC tu.bl',;, liuJ, takl.ig u ucw broom, pouud 



the clothes for 5 or 10 minutes, then straighten and roll tightly, 
letting ihem remain covered in si cool place one hour before 
ironing. 

Muslin dresses should be starclied in rice water, made by 
boiling 2 tablespoons rice in 1 jdnt water until entirely dis- 
solved. This will stiften 2 dresses. 

Lace curtains should be starched with thick starch and 
treated as described farther on. 

Tlic "O. K." Double Wasliboard is constructed in such a manner that 
it cannot warp, twi.st, get out of shape or dry apart. 

IRONING. 

In ironing, much depends upon the manner in which it is 
done. Good irons arc essential, and the light, smooth, idckel- 
plated ones, arc by tar the best. If i)()ssible. use a gas or 
kerosene stove, for these tiny couiforts can l)c set on a stool or 
stand by your side, and save hundreds of steps. Above all, if 
you value, your iiealth and feeling, learn to iron, sitting. 
Standing is wearing and wearying work. Have two "ironing- 
boards,"' one about three feet by f )ur feet, whicli can be used 
for skirts, if rested upon two cliair backs, or tor ordinary arti- 
cles, upon a table, then anotht-r the size of a sliirt-bosom ; 
cover both with a i>iece of old blanket, and then a sti'ong ])iece 
of CJtton clotii. Always liave a strip of white N\ith strings, 
and tie over whili ironing, and whieli can then be removed, 
and thus kei)t clean for a 1 )ng time. When one can be pro- 
cured, a board hoUowetl out in the centi'e. like a '"cutting or 
lap-board." is very comfortable, as it enables the ironer to sit 
up close to her work. A piece of sotY. ohl towel or other 
linen, or a small spoiige, is always requisite to wipe oif starch- 
ed articles and little specks and spots from various pieces. An 
old book or pamphlet should alwnys be at han.d on which to 
rub the iron. Linen goods should be ironed on the right side, 
cotto I a id emln-oider}^ on th '. wrong. Never use heavy ii-ons 
for muslins; but iron'off rapidly, ami iinish the gathers, &c., 
on the right side. Lace curtains must never be ironed, but 
pinned to a rod on whicii a strip of cotton is tacked, and a 
heavy rod, with weights fastened to the ends, pinned to the 
bottom. Two rods li.dshed with thi strips of cotton should 
be in every family who own lace curtains. 



If your flat irons are rough, rub them with fino salt. 

If a shirt bosom or other article lias been scorched in iron- 
ing, lay it where briglit sunlight will fall directly on it. It 
will take it out at once. 

The "O. K." Double Washboard washes eleaner with less exertion 
thiin any oth'T board. 

CHOLERA MIXTURE. 

Take ecjual ])arts of tincture of opium, red ])epper, rhubarb, 
popi)ermint and camphor. Mix, and to about 2-^ ounces of 
the mixture add 1 teaspoon oil of anise. Dose, 10 to 30 drops 
in 3 or 4 teaspoons of water. Good for cholera morbus and 
all sudden, violent attacks of summer complaint. After the 
attack is broken, follow this with the ''Remedy for Diarrhoea," 
given ])el<.\v. 

REMEDY FOR DIARRHCEA. 

Also valuable to tone the stomach and bowels after an at- 
tack of cholera morbus. Take a large handful of dried spear- 
mint. 1 teaspoonful i)ulverized Turkey rhubarb, 1 of powdered 
cinnaujon, 1 pint of l)oiling water. Let all simmer for 10 
minutes; straia and add 1 teaspoon good soda, and sugar to 
suit the taste. 1) )se, 1 or 2 tablespoo'ifuls ever}' 4 to 5 hours, 
as the case recpures. Children — one-half teaspoon or more, ac- 
cording to size. This is a harmless and perfect agent, and 
can be given to the youngest infant with impunity, if spear- 
mint cannot be obtained, a smaller quantity of dried pepper- 
mint can be substituted. 

The -'O. K." Double Wi'.shboard combines all the advanlageM of a 
zinc and of a wooden board. 

REMOVING WARTS. 

liub the warts night and morning with a moistened piece of 
nmriate of anunonia. They soften ard dwindle away, leaving 

no disagreeable scars. 

REMEDY rOR INFLAMED EYES. 

One teas^:)oon ])owdered borax, 1 teaspoon spirits camphor, 
druggists' strength, dissolved in 1 pint rain water. Bathe the 
eyes frequently. 



6 
REMEDY FOR COLD FEET. 

Soak the feet in -vvarin water with a littlo Caj^enne pepper 
added, two or three tini'^s a week. Try this tV-r a month or 
longer if necessary, and you will llnd it an excellent remedy. 

TO BREAK UP A COLD. 

Squeeze a lemon, cut it in slices, put with sugar and cover 
witli one-half pint of b<iiling water. Drhikjust before going 
to bed, and do not expose yourself on the following tiay. 
This remedy will ward oft" an attack of cliills and fever if used 
promptly. It is one of the best remedies, and has no un- 
pleasant after etfects. 

The "O. K." Double Washboard wears the clothen less than any 
bo:ird used. 

LINIMENT FOR MAN OR BEAST. 

Two ounces c istile soap. 1 quart best alcohol, 3 ounces gum 
camphor, 1 pint spirits tnrpentine, 12 lluid ounces .'strong a(jua 
ammonia, one-half pint laudanum, 4 ounces oil rosemary. 
Dissolve the soap and camphor in the alcoliol. then add the 
other ingredients. Keep in a glass-stopjiered bottle; rub 
thoroughly in with flannels. 

The "O. K." Double Washboard makes a 8uds u.s wrll uh u wooden 
board. 

REMEDY FOR EARACHE. 

A little black pepper in some cotton dipped in sweet oil, is 
one of the quickest remedies known for the earache. 

BLACK COPYING INK. 

Rain water 2 gallons ; gum arable one-fourth pound ; sugar 
one-fourth pound ; clean coperas one-fourth pound; powdered 
nutgalls three-fourths pound; bnuse all and mix, shaking oc- 
casionally for 10 days and strain. If needed sooner let it 
steep in an iron kettle until the strength is obtained. When 
first written it appears pale, but soon becomes jet black and 
never fades. 

The "O. K." Double Washboard washes as clean as a wowJen board 
with much lees labor. 



SPLENDID BLACK INK. 

Two quarts rain water, 1 ounce logwood, one-fourth ounce 
bicroniate potash, Oiie-fourth ounce prussiate potash. Heat 
boiling hot; strain and bottle for use. 

HANDY MUCILAGE. 

Put a little gum tragacanth in a mucilage bottle and cover 
with water. When dissolved add a few drops oil of cloves. 
Be careful not to put in too mucii gum or it will be too thick. 
This is always ready for use. 

POSTAGE-STAMP MUCILAGE. 

Gum dextrine, 2 parts; water. 5 parts; acetic acid, 1 part; 
dissolve by aid of heat, and add 1 part of alcohol. 

The "O. K." Double Wtiahboar<l washes much cleaner than a zinc 
boanl, 118 the latter has too little friction. 

PERPETUAL PASTE. 

Dissolve a teaspoonful of alum in a quart of water, to which 
add sufficient Hour to make a thick cream. Stir in half a tea- 
spoonful of powdered rosin. Have on the fire a teacup of 
boiling water, pour tlie Hour mixture into it. stirring well at 
the time. In a few minutes it will be of the consistence of 
musli. Pour into an earthen vessel and add a few drops of 
oil of cloves to prevent moulding. Lay on a cover and keep 
in a co')l place. When needed for use, take out a portion, and 
J often for use with warm water. 

TO FIND THE SIZE OF KID GLOVES. 

Take a tape and measure your hand around the knuckles; 
the number of inches and quarters of an inch it measures will 
be the size of your glove. 

PORCELAIN CEMENT. 

Add plaster of paris to a strong solution of alum, till the 
mixture is of the consistency of cream. It set.<< readily, and 
is said to unitt' glass, metal, porcelain, etc., quite firmly. It 
is probably suited for cases iu whicli large rather than small 
surfaces are to be united. 



CEMENT FOR ATTACHING METAL TO GLASS. 

Copal varnish. If); drying oil. 5; turpentine, 3. Melt in a 
water-batli, and add 10 i)arts slaked lime. 

PARIS CEMENT, 

For MeiKHit;^ SIivjIs autl other Specimens. 

(^uni arabio, o; sui^ar (.-andy, 2; white lead, enough to color. 

BAKING FO'WDEK. 

Take 4 ounces laitaric acid. 3 ounces bi-carbonate soda, 4 
ounces corn starch; mix thoroughly and use as other baking 
powder. 

The "O. K." Double Washboard is a liappy combination of good 
qualities, and is destined to lighten the labors of the washerwomaa 
and will soon bo considered a boon to the race. 

CREAM BEER. 

One ounce tartaric acid; 2 pounds white sugar; the juice of 
half a lemon ; 3 pints water. Boil together 5 minutes. When 
nearly cold, add the white of 3 eggs, well beaten with one- 
half cup flour and one-half ounce essence of wintergreen. 
B<Utle .and keep in a cool place. Take 2 tablcspoonfuls of the 
syiup. add one-fourth teaspoonful soda; stir and fill the glass 
wirli water. This is a very pleasant etTervescing drink. 

CHILI SAUCE. 

Twelve ripe tomatoes. 3 i-ed i)eppers. 3 onions chopped fine, 
3 cups vinegar, 2 tablespoons salt, 2 cups sugar, 1 teaspoon of 
cinnamon. Cook 1 hour. Put in cans and seal tight. 

SPICED TOMATOES. 

To 7 pounds pared tomatoes add 4 pounds white sugar and 
1 pint vinegar. Boil slowly until somewhat thick. Spice ac- 
cording to taste. Preserve in fruit cans. 

CABBAGE SAIiAB. 

Shave a hard, white cabbage, into small strips, take the 
yolks ot 3 well-beaten eggs. 1^ cups good cider vinegar. 2 tea- 
gpoonfuls of white sugar',' 1 teaspoonful of mustard mixed in 



9 

a little boiling water, salt and pepper to suit taste; also 3 
tahleppooiifiils of tliick cream Mix all but the eggs together, 
and let it boil; then stir in the eggs rapidly; turn the cab- 
bage into the mixture, and stir w«'ll. Enough can be made 
for 2 days at once, and it keeps perfectly, and is an excellent 
relish to all kinds of meat. 

The "O. K." Doublt^ Washboard is a double-sidofl board, both sides 
being^ jnst . like and *njually desirabhs henco will last twice us long as 
most boards. 

COTTAGE PUDDING. 

One pint Hour. 1 teacup milk. 1 egg, one-half teacup sugar, 
1 teaspoon soda dissolved in the miik. 2 teasi)oons cream tar- 
tar; rubbed in the tlour. Bake 20 minutes or half an hour. 

PUDDING SAUCE. 

One egg. three-fourths cup butter, li cups sugar, juice and 
grated rind of a lemon, all beaten well together. Just before 
serving, pour on the mixture 1 pint boiling water. 

TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

Put a small teacupfid of tapioca to soak in 3 cups of warm 
water 5 or 6 hours, or until soft. Pare six or eight good 
apples, core them, till with sugar and a little lemon juice or 
grated nutmeg. Pour the tapioca around with mitmeg grnted 
on top. Bake an hour. Serve with crennj and sugar. If the 
apples are not fully i-ipe. par boil before adding the tapioca. 

The "O, K." Doubh' Washboard is more (ku-able tha)j any board 
made, as each rib of wood is held firmly by a fiute of zinc, and each 
rib of zinc is .snpiiorted by a bar of wood, hence the zinc must wear 
out and cannot sag^ down as soon as it Is worn thin. 

RICE PUDDING 

One cup of rice, 1 quart of milk. 4 eggs, 1 tablespoon of 
butt'T. 1 cup of sugar, i pinch of salt. Boil the rice in 1 pint 
of the milk until tender, then add eggs &c.. not butter theu 
brush the butter over the top. Bake in steady oven 30 minutes. 



10 

SUET PUDDING. 

One cup of suet, 1 oup of molasses, 1 cup of raisins, 1 cup 
of milk, 3 cups of Hour. 1 teaspoonful soda; spice to your 
taste. Boil in a mould, water tight. 4 hours. 

EGG TOAST. 

For six i)erHons talvc 2 eggs, one-lialf <!up milk, Hour enough 
to make a, good stitf battel-, cut old bread in thin slices, dip 
into the )>atter nvd fry biovvn in buttej-. Serve hot. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

Beat 5 eggs 20 minutes, stir iu 1 cup sugar and 1 cup tlour. 
Bake in a luoderate oven. 

AiiotSici' liecipt) for felpongtf. 

Two cups sugar, 2 cups flour, one-half cup water, one-half 
teaspoon soUa, i teaspoon cream tartar, 5 eggs. Beat tiie 
water and yoiKS of tne eggs together and mix with the sugar. 
Beat the wnites to a Irota, iheu mix in witn tne hour, having 
put the cream tartar in tUe last cup liour. Bake slowly. 

MOX.ASSES CAKE. 

\ .'ry line, rhree cups molasses, 1 cup sugar, 1 quart sour 
cream, 'Z taDlespoons soua, i leaspoon aium uissoived ma little 
water, 2 eggs, uue-lourin cup ouLter; siir la nour until stitf, 
then uip in paas tne same as iruuKies. 

COCOANUT CAKE. 

Three cups ilour, two-thirds cup sweet milk, one-half cup 
butter, li cups sugar, tne vvnites of 3 eggs beaten to a stiif 
frotn, one-haif teaspoon soda dissolved in the milk, 1 teaspoon 
cream tartar sifted in the last cup of Hour. Bake iu 3 layers.^ 

Beat the whites of 2 eggs to a stiff froth, stir in one-half 
cup sugar and 1 cup cocoaaut. Layer this between the cake. 

"I say Charley, how is it you always liave on such a nice clean 
ehirt?" "Why? because uiy wife us«.'S t\w " 0. K.'^ Doulle Wasnoourdt 
and says I can liave a clean shirt every day if 1 Avant it, it is so easy 
to wasli them on the "O. K." 



11 

MINNEHAHA CAKE* 



Stir li cups granulated sugar and one-half cup butter to a 
cream : to one-half cup milk dissolve 1 teaspoon sodi\, and 
stir this into the cream. Beat the whites of 6 eggs to a stiff 
froth. Add alternately to the cream the beaten (;ggs and i 
cups tlour. luiving added 2 teaspooi»s cream tartar to the las*, 
cup flour. Viixko in ;? layers. 

Filling foi AI»«v«;. 

One cup hickory nut meats, 1 cup raisins chopped line. 
Make a syrui) of 2 cupe sugar with 1 of water, boiled. Wheu 
nearly cold add the beaten white of one egg^ and lastly th« 
nuts and raisins. 

Tlio "O. K." Double Washboard washes quicker than other )>oanfs 
and 8j>al1:or» tho water about, much less than a zinc board i ' • 

DELICATE CAKE. 

Nearly .'> cups of flour, 2 cups of sugar, three-fourths cup of 
sweet milk, whites of G eggs, 1 teaspoonful cream tartar, halt 
tcaspoonful soda, half a cup of butter, lemon for flavoring. 

JELLY CAKE. 

To 3 well-beaten eggs, add 1 cup of powdered sugar, 1 of 
flower, stir well, and add 1 teaspoonful cream tartar, one-half 
teaspoonful of soda dissolved in 3 teaspoonfuls of water. 
Bake in 2 pie pans, spread as even as possible. Have ready a 
towel, and as soon as done, turn the cake on it, bottom side 
up, then sx)rend evenly witli jelly, roll up qinckly, and wrap 
in a towel. 

Another Recipe for Jelly Cake. 

Two cups flour; 14 cups sugar, one-half cup butter, one- 
half cup milk, 1 teaspoon soda, 2 teaspoons cream tartar, 3 
eggs. Bake in 2 or "i layers and add fruit jelly. 

FROSTING. 

Beat tlie white of 1 ogg to a stilT froth, stir into it 7 tea- 
spoonfuls pulverized wliiie sugar; ttiis quantity will be enough 
for a common sized cuk.'.. .-nn-ad on while the cake is hot. 



12 
COOKIES. 

One Clip butter, 1 cup sweet milk. 2 cups snoar, 2 tea'.poons 
CTeam tartar, 1 teaspoon soda, tlour to roll: roll thin, cut in 
siuall cakes, and bake 10 minutes. An}' spice you choose. 

TRENCH ]L,OAF. 

Three eggs, 2 cups sugar, tvvo-tliirds cups butter, 1 cup 
Bweefc milk, one-half toaspoonful soda, 1 teaspoonful cream 
tartar, 3 cups flour. Flavor to taste. 

JOHNNY CAKE. 

One and one-half cups Indian meal, I cup wheat flour. 2 
cups sour milk, 1, egg, 1 teaspoonful soda, 1 tablespoonful 
melted butter; salt. 

POTATO CAKES. 

Take cold mash'xl potatoes. 1 pint. 3 eggs, well beaten, 1 cup 
flour, season with salt. pe!>per. butter and cream. Make into 
cakes and t'vy in butter. To be eaten warm. 

Thi- "0. K." Doable Washboard is marie of good materials, in a work- 
maul iko and soicntiiio manner, and is bound to become i)Oimlar 
whe rover intro<lu • ed . 

SNOW CAKE. 

Two cup-^ sugar, 1 cup butter, 1 cup milk. 3 cups flour. Add 
tlie wliites of 8 eggs beaten to a froth, 2 teaspoonfuls 
cream tartar, 1 teaspooufiil soda dissolved in the milk. Hub 
the cream tartar in with the flour. 

BUTTERBIiliK CAKE. 

OiWJ cup butter, 2 cups bnUermilk. ;^ cups sugar, 4 t'ggs, 5 
cups flour, soda enough to sweeten tlie buttermilk:. 

HICKORY NUT CAKE. 

OiKv and oue^half cups sugar, ont^half cups butter, 2 cups 
flour, white of 4 eggs, threc-fourius cup sweet milk, 1 tea- 
spoonful cream tartar, one-half teaspoonful soda, 1 cup meats 
hickory nuts. Bake in stpjare pans. 

Do licit buy a wayubv>ur i u.i n > wu nav .• cxaaiiued tlie "O. K^" 



13 

GINGER SNAPS. 
Melt one-half cup lard, the same quantity of butter, mix 
the shortening with 1 cup niolasssog, 1 cup sugar, 1 large 
spoonful ginger, and a little flour, dissolve 1 teaspoonful of 
eoda in a cup of water, and stir it to the above ingredients, 
adding Hour until stilf enough to roll out. Roll out one-half 
inch thick, and cut in small circular cakes. Bake in buttered 
tins in oven moderately hot. Bake slowly till hard and crisp. 

COrrEE CAKE. 

Four eggs, 2 cups molasses. 1 cup sugar, 1 cup butter, I cup 
lOfFee, 4 cups flour. 2 teaspoons saleratns, 2 teaspoons ctovos, 
2 teaspoons mace, 2 teaspoons cinnamon, one-half pound raisiijs. 

CREAM CAKE. (Like Jelly < a!ic.) 

One cup sugar, 1 cup flour. 3 eggs, 1 teaspoonful hoda, a 
teaspoonsful cream tartar, pinch salt. Beat the eggs well be- 
fore adding the sugar. The cake is cut in two, <M}gewise, and 
the following crcaTa inserted. One-half cup sugar, one-thin! 
cup flour, 1 egg, one-half pint sweet milk. When the 'milk 
boils stir in the e^g, sugar and flour, thoy having been pre- 
viously mixed. I^avoi- to t;iste. 

By using tlK." "(). K." Douhic Washboar 1, :v n.ivi!!:^ t*f s.»Uj) iMf^ctmrcd. 
RIBBON CAKE. 

Three eggs., ontvhidf en]) butr<T, oji«'-iia!f cuj) sugar, one- 
half cup milk. 2 cups Hour, 1 teaspoonfisl cream tartar, one- 
half teaspoonful soda; dissolve soda in the milk; mix the 
cream tartar with the flour; Beat the butter and sugar, add 
the eggs, well beaten, then the milk, and lastly th? fiour. 
Take one cupful of this mixture, add to it one large table- 
spoonful of molasses, one of ciiuiamon. one-fourth teaspoon- 
ful each of cloves, nutmog, and allspice, one-fourth pouncl of 
shred citron, one-half cup laisins, one-half cjip currants, ontv- 
fourth ])Ound chopped almonds or hickory luits. Bake in two 
shallow tins. 

FRIED CAKZS. 

One te<acup sour cream. 1 t^^acnp sweet creau'i, 2 cups sweet 
milk, 1 cup sugar, 2 teaspoons a<>da, 1 t^gg. Dissolve the soda 
in the sour cream. Cn? ;)" • :-v i : h)rd. • ./ 



14 
RAISED DOUGHNUTS. 

Take 1 quart of sponge, for bread, after it is light, 1 pint 
warm water, 2 eggs, 1 eup sugar, a piiieli of salt, 1 teaspoon- 
ful ground cinnamun, 3 tablespounfuls larii or fried porlc 
gravy ; mix this well and mould in Hour the same as fur bread. 
Let the dough stand until light, then eut and fry in liot lard. 
Lard is better to shorten them with than butter. They can be 
made without sugar, occasionally, and it makes an agreeable 
change. 

Tell your friouds that we give a valuable book of recipjis with each 
*'0. K."-i>ouble WsisUboanl that we send out. 

LEMON CREAM PIE. 

One cup .sugar, 1 cup .water, 1 raw potato, grated, juice and 
grated rind of L lemon, bake in pastry, top and bottom. This 
will make 1 pie. 

EEMON PIE. 

Take one lemon, grate off the yellow, but do not use the 
white part of the rind, squeeze out the juice and cut the pulp 
very fine, add one cup white sugar, 1 cup water, 1 vg^ well 
beate.ij, 1 tablespoonful flour and 2 tablespoonfuls sweet cream. 
Bake between two crusts, or instead of a top crust, beat the 
white of 1 ogg to a froth, with a little sugar, and lay over the 
top, when done; then return to the oveii for a few uiinutes. 

BAKED APPLES OR PEARS. 

If large, cut in half, and put in a deep dish with a little wa- 
ter. Sprinkle them with sugar, and add a few cloves, a little 
ginger or cinnamon, and cover close and bake till tender. 

OMELETTE SOUEELE. 

One cup flour, 1 pint milk, 1 spoonful sugar, small piece 
butter, size of a walnut; scald milk, flour and butter together. 
After the batter is cold, stir iii the ^olks of 5 eggs ; stir in the 
froth of the whites just before bakuig. Bake in a quick oven. 
Sauce. 

We iatend to see that every grocer and hardware merchant in the 
laud lf» supplied with the "O. K." Double Wtunhboard. 



15 
TAPIOCA CREAM. 

Soak oire-half coffee cup of tapioca in a pint of milk over 
night and next inoniing add 1 quart of milk, yolks of H eggs 
well beaten ; sweeten and salt to taste ; cook in a kettle of 
warm water, stir until about as thick as cream ; when done 
Jlavor with lemon or vanilla, pour out into a dish, and lay on 
top or stir in gradually the white of three eggs beaten to a 
8titr froth. Stand away to cool. 

COCOANUT MERANGUE. 

Whites of eggs, 1 cup of cocoanut ; beat the whites to a 
stiff froth, and i cup sugar and the cocoanut nnxed, all at 
once, stir gently, mix liiorouguly together, spread on the 
cake, sift sugar over it, then put it in a cool oven till a light 
fawn color, 

(Mr. Jones.) "I declare, Mrs. Jones, I thought this was wash-day." 
(Mrs. Jones.) "Well, my ileur, so it is, what of it?' (Mr. J.) "Wliy, 
you don't usually dress yourseli up so rarly on wash days." (3Ir.s. J.) 
"Well, it is all owing to Umt " O. K." Double Washboard you brought 
home the other day. 1 declare, 1 never saw anything like it. it boata 
all washboards I evei used. Why, just think ol it, I was all through 
with my big wash in two hours, and it used to take me at lea;st i'our." 
(Mr. J.) "Well, I am glad I bought one, it does seem so good to como 
home and hnd you all through, and looking so nice. I must tell my 
fritnd about it, he says his wife is forever in the wash-tub." (Mrs. J ) 
Oh, .»e8, do,- I know Mrs. S. will thaulc you. and will never use any 
other after she tries the "O. K." 

CHICKEN PIE. 

Make the crust like bakhig powder biscuit, only a little 
shorter. KoU half an inch thick and line a 4 quart tiii pan, 
have ready 2 small chickens, boiled till tender, piuce tiie pieces 
of chicken smoothly in the pan. sprinkle salt and peper and a 
little flour over them, add a piece of butter the size of a but- 
ternut. Pour on a little of the liquor they were boiled in, 
then roll the top crust rather more than half an inch thick, 
cut air holes in it. Bake till the crust is thoroughly done. 
Thicken and season the remainder of the liquor the chickens 
were boiled in. and serve with the ]«ie. 



16 

CREAM PIE. 

For one pie, take 2 tablespoons corn starch, disHolve the 
starch and add boili!i<^ water to cook it. add 1 pint of milk and 
yolks of 2 QggSy sweeten and llavor wltii va;ii.ila or other ex- 
tracts to taste. Ba'ce. oa odc eriisr,. VV;i<m slightly cool, beat 
the whites of 2 <'gg.s to stiff fr.jth. and add 2 taOlf.spoon.s siiofar 
spread over the pic, and set i;i the oven to browii a litti.:. 

CUSTARB PIE. 

One quart milk, 5 eggs, takeout the whites of the ii^gi^^ beat 
the Gggiiy add one-half cup sugar, a little salt, liavor to taste^ 
till the pies and bake. VVliile the pies are baking, beat the 
white of the eggs to a froth, and add 1 spoonful line white 
sugar, beat agaiii. and when the pies are done, spread the 
frosting over the tops of the pies; set in the oven to brown, 
Tnis is excellent. 

FLOATING ISLANDS. 

Three joints milk, yolks of 5 eggs, 4 tablespooufals sugar, 3 
tablespoonfiils corn starch, a little salt, tlavor to taste; beat 
tne yolks and sugar together, mix the corn starch with a little 
of cue milk, cold, put tiie rest of the milk on the lire, when it 
bjils add the eggs and corn starch, stirring briskly until it 
thickens; put in an earthen dish; beat the whites of 5 eggs to 
a stiff froth, lay them on the custard wMth a spoon, place them 
in the oven or 10 minutes, until of a light brown. 

APPLE FLOAT. 

The whites of 2 eggs, well beaten, add a spoonful of sugar^ 
6 apples stewed and drained quite dry, beat all together, then 
make a soft custard, put it in the bottom of a dish, and lay the 
float on the top. 

NICE T^AY TO PREPARE APPLES. 

Pare a dozen tai-i.. apples, take out the core, place sugar, 
with a small lump of butter in the centre of each apple, put 
them in a pan with one-lialf pint ot water, bake until tender, 
basting occasionally with the syrup while baking; when done 
serve with cream. 

If you want an "O. K." w'd' , buy an ''O. A'." Double Washboard. 



17 
BROWN BREAD. 

Two cups of Indian meal, 2 cups rye mea^ 1 cup molasses, 
1 quart milk, salt, 1 teaspoonful soda dissolved in a little of 
the milk. Bake in a deep round pan four hours. 

Ask you dealer for the "O. K." Double Washboard and take no other. 
If he hasn't kept it, tell him it is made by J. II. Nellis, Canajoharic, N. 
Y., from whom he can obtain them, or from any of the wooden ware 
dealers in the large cities. 

FRIED OYSTERS. 

Take large o\\-<ter3, free from shells, place them on a clean 
towel and dry them ; take crackers made very line, which sea- 
son with a little salt, black and red popper, equal parts ; beat 
as many eg^s and cream mixed as will moisten all the oysters 
required ; dip each one in the egg. and lay them on the cracker ; 
(put the cracker close to the oyster) ; lay them on a dish until 
all are done; put i i frying pan equal portions of butter and 
lard, when boiling hot, put in as many oysters as the pan will 
hold without touching, and fry quickly a light brown on each 
side. 

SCALLOPED OYSTERS. 

One hundred oysters, a baker's loaf, crumbled, 4 eggs, boiled 
hard, salt and cayetme pepper to taste; chop the eggs very 
line, and mix with the crumbs; cover the bottom of a deep pie 
dish with the eg;i;s and crumbs, then place a hiyer of oysters, 
with three small pieces of butter, and so continue till all are 
in, reserving sufficient crumbs for the cover. Bake in a quick 
oven three-quarters of an hour. Serve hot. 

A sample "O. K." Double Washboard will be sent by express, to any 
one sending 85 cents to the manufacturer. 

PANNED OYSTERS. 

Take lifty large oysters, free from pieces of shells, put them 
into a colander, pouV over a little water to rinse them; after 
letting them drain, put into a stew pan, with a quarter pound 
of butter, salt and pepper to taste; put them over a clear fire, 
and stir whilf cooking; as soon as they commence to shrink, 
remove them from the fire, and send to the table in a well 
covered, heated dish. 



18 
OYSTER PXE. 

Take 100 oysters, free of shells, put them into a kettle with 
their own liquor to plump them; then put them into ji dish, 
anJ season them with 12 cloves and three blades of mace 
p )iiaded fine, pepper to taste; then lay crust around the edge 
of your dish; take the yolks of four eggs, boiled hard, with a 
handful of grated bread, sprinkle this over the top, with a few 
pieces of butter, fill the dish nearly full. Cover the pie over 
with puff paste. 

•'Cleanliness is akin to Gorllinoss," and an '-O. K." Double Washboard 
is the sure road to cleanliness. 

ICE CREAM. 

One gallon milk, IG eggs, li tablespoons corn starch. Bring 
the miiK to the boiling point, and add the starcli. Tlien re- 
move from th-^ lire and add the eggs and sugar to make quite 
sweet, the eggs b.'ing first well beaten. Strain through a 
Bievc, and whan cool, flavor to suit. 

PARING PEACHES. 

Take an iron pot, place on the stove with water in it, put in 
pom.; concentrated lye, let it dissolve until strong enough to 
Clio the skins, w.nc.i yon c.i i asi^ertai.i by dropping in a few 
peaches, then remove from the fire. After the peaches have 
been in tb ? lye, throw them into a tub of cold water, i-inse 
them thoroughly, and wipe oif with cloth, and your peaches 
will have th>i skin removed, still retaining their red cheeks. 

STUFFING FOR FDW^LS. 

Cut up a pint bowl of bread. Take a lump of butter the 
pize of a bnttenmt. put in a pan. ad'l the bread and fry till of 
I l"g It brown color, all a quirt of milk, boil till soft, season 
wir/i salt, pepper and par->ley to ta'^te; boat the yolks of 6 
eg ;s to a froth, stir in and set back over a slow fire to "boil, when 
it is ready to fill into the fowls, or it can be baked in the oven 
in pans. 

The Gseat Peack Makep..— Statistics show that there has n-ver 
been a quarrol or a divorcj suit in a family whcrj tlio "O. K*" Double 
Wasiibourd was used. 



19 
TO PICKLE CABBAGE. 

Quarter them till they are thin enougli to let the vinegar 
strike through, put theiu down in layers? with spice, salt and 
vinegar; scald j-our vinegar as often as it, is )iecessary to make 
ihem tender. 

RA-W CABBAGE. 

A nice way t(^ i)iepare raw cabbage is as follows : Select a 
line good he*ad, chop tlnely in a bowl what you think will be 
needed, and to every quart add one-half teacupful of thick, 
sweet cream, two tablespoonfuls of strong vinegar or lemon 
Juice, one cupful of sugar, and mix thoroughly. 

'•Patrick," says Bridget, to her worthy Iclgo loril, 
"Go buy me an "O.K." Double ^yashboanl, 
And I'll wash you some shirts, so neut, so clean, 
The bogs of old Ireland were never so gi-een." 

IRON RUST AND MILDEW. 

To remove iron rust, mildew, and for bleaching white goods. 
To 1 gallon of buttermilk add 1 double handful grated horse- 
radish root. The goods should not remain in it more than M 
hours, as there is danger of their rotting in warm weather. It 
will also take the color out of lawn that fades, when boiling 
in lye will not. 

TO COLOR YELLOW^. 

Dissolve 2 ounces of sugar of load in 2 quarts of water, dis- 
solve 1 ounce bichromate of potash in another vessel, and dip 
in the goods, one piece at a time, first into the sugar of lead 
and then into the bichromate of potash. Rinse in lime water 
if orange color is wanted ; the water should be hot. 

TO DYE WOOL SCARLET. 

Take 1 gallon water to 1 pound cloth or yarn, also 1 ounce 
cochineal, 2 ounces cream tartar, and 2^ ounces muriate of tin; 
when the water boils put in the cream tartar, then the cochi- 
neal pulverized; when dissolved add the muriate of tin and 
then the yarn, stirring all the time; let it boil 15 minutes, air it 
once or twice and rinse well in soft water. Wet the goods in 
warm soap suds before putting them into the dye. 



20 

TO RENOVATE BLACK GOODS. 

Take one-fiftli of a pound of extract of logwood and 1 ounce 
of saleratus, put in a boiler witli 10 oiuices of water, cold or 
hot, stand over the tire, and when boiinig hot put in tlie goods, 
either wet or dry, let stand twenty minutes, moving about oc- 
casionally, rinse in cold water until the goods drip clear, and 
iron immediately. This will be found a most excellent receipt 
for restoring black goods of any kind that have become rusty 
or brown — cloth, cashmere, a waterproof, vvrorsted or g^rena- 
dine, or any material that will not cockle ia wetting, rress^ 
on the wrong side. 

CONDIMENTS. 

The most important condiments are salt, peper and mustard ; 
of these salt alone is a necessary of life; a sufficient quantity 
does not exist iii oav food to supply the wants of t'le body. 
The young should avoid all high seasoning; their digestion is 
good and tiiey do not uoed stimulants. 

Mrs. P3rkin9 hangyl horsclf with a piece of sash cord, 
Bocaus3 h jr liusband woul Jii't bay an '^O. K." Double Washboard. 
And now h3 has another wife, and thinks ha will afford, 
And go in time to save her life, and buy an "O. K," "Washboard. 

ROASTING MEATS. 

Little or no preparation is necessary. The only requisites 
are a brigntlire and hot oven; then place the joint i;i the pan, 
and if it is very lean, put a tablespoonful, or t\v >, of water — 
not more — into the pan; if fat, it will not require aiiy. No 
flour is necessary if the meat has not been waslu (L and if you 
buy from a good butcher. Tliis Avill only be needed ii sum- 
m^r if it has been kept an hour (-r two too long; then wash it 
oflf with vinegar, dry it carefully, and very lightly dust it with 
flour to absoro any moisture that may remain on the surface. 
While th^ meat is in the oven, baste it several times, and when 
about half done turn it — always keeping the thickest part of 
the moat in the hottest part of the oven. ^Vhilo the meat is in 
the oven, fire should be kept hot and bright. If the oven has 
been i \ good condition the meat will be a beautiful brown and 
the bottom of the pan covered with a thick glaze. Gently 



21 

pour off the fat, holding the pan steadily as you do it, that the 
gravy may not go with it; then put the pan on the stove and 
pour into it haif a cup of boiling water (more if the joint is 
very large and less if very smuil) and a little salt. Stir it 
with a spoon until the adliering glaze or gravy is entirely re- 
moved from the pan. it will dissolve as it mingles with the 
liquid, and make a rich brown gravy. Before the joint is 
served, sift over it evenly— not \n patches— tine salt. This 
must never be done befor:? it i.s cooked, as it diaws onr the 
juice of the meat. It must be repeated tliat nothing so injures 
meat as to put it i;it<i a cold oven, allowing both to get hot to- 
gether. Some meats re(iuire longer to cook tha?) f>rh«M-s. Pork 
and ve;d much longer than mutton and ])oef 'i'he former 
meals rc((i!ii-e to be very well done — the latter, most .people 
like underdone; but even where this is the case, it, should be 
remeniber.'d thnt the texture should be changed all through; 
the gravy is then released and runs red v, ith the knife, while 
the grain of the meat is seen through it. of a bright red in- 
stead of the livid puqile so frequently called rare, but which 
is simply raw. 

Yaiiketi DooiUe. came lo town, .straihlk'. of a Ijuckboanl, 

In Kueh Krcat hastv, his wife to buy an "O. K." Doiible Wa8h]x)arvi. 

nO'W TO MAKE FRUIT JEULY. 

The process for all jelly making is materially the same. 
Cook the fruit in a porcelain or granite kettle and stir with a 
wooden or silver spoon. Iron and tin utensils injure both 
taste and color. If a brass kettle is used be particular to scour 
it thoroughlv with hot salt and vinegar just before ushig, and 
remove the contents directly on taking from the lire. VVTien 
the fruit is well softened, with or without the addition of 
water, according to its nature, turn it into a large, three- 
cornered bag, that has been wrung out of hot water. The 
bag may I)e made of either coarse linen, cotton or flannel^ and 
must be stout as W(>11 as course. Suspend this bag ot hot 
fruit over an earthen bowl or jar. and if coiivenient, in a warm 
place; leave it to drip for twelve hours. This does away wUh 
all the miisance of -squeezing," and the bag being suspended 
over night, the jellv will oidv take a litMe while in the morn- 
ing to complete. When stra!ne<l, n«.-:ts.ir.- the juice; weigh a 



22 

pound of v:;;gar f.>r each pint and be particular about it too, 
Dout '"g-uess, " if yoii waiit to make good jelly, but if you 
prtifcr to measure instead of weigldug use a heaping pint of 
sugar for every pint of juice; and if the fruit is very sour 
mlivo the latter measure scant. Boil tiie juice fast for twenty 
mi lutes, skim it well, then add the sugar, and when it is dis- 
sjlvjd the jelly will fall from the spoon in tlakes; if it does 
not, then let it boil fjr tive minutes, but it will seldom be 
ni3 5<sary. Boiliag th;^ juice long after the sugar is put in 
will m ike it dark aad strong, and spoil the jelly. Strain the 
jelly, while boillag hot, through a thin bag, into a pitcher; 
hoi J the bottosn of thj bag with a fork and twist the top, but 
not too tight and elos.'. if you want your jelly to be bright and 
cljar. Pour a.^ so ):i a? possible into the iiiolds, as the jelly 
will form almost iininidiately, and the quicker it will be trans- 
f^i'CiA th^ clearer ic will b3. Dip each mold into cold water 
b^fjro lining, that the form may turn out nicely, and if glass 
is Used set it oi a cloth dipped in cold water and put in a sil- 
ver spoon whil3 tiUing. Keep the cloth cold by frequent dip- 
ping and you will never crack a single glass, even if the juice 
ah). lid be boiling hot. Currants and wild cherries in equal 
qmitities mak ; a good and wholesome jelly ; red and white 
eiirraats, one of exquisite color, and black currants alone, one 
that ii rich aad dark and exceedingly palatable. Kaspberries 
to jellv well should be mixed witlia third their quantity of 
ciirriits; cherries and strawberries will not produce a 6rm 
jelly with >ut th3 addition of gelatine, and ripe grapes cannot 
b3 depended oi. Grapes should be used before they are fully 
ripened. Gooseberries are also better for jelly while partially 
gram. The late wild plums make a jelly that can scarcely be 
surpassed either in appearance or flavor." By bruising slightly 
tiie jnic •. can be liberated from all of these fruits without the 
U33 of w Iter, except that which clings to them after rinsing. 
Crab-aooles, both the wild and Siberian, and quinces are par- 
ticularly easy to jelly. Wash, and cut them into pieces with- 
out p-^^ling or coring, cook in water enough to cover, adding 
ni^r'* if necessry to render them perff^ctly soft. A beautiful 
amb^rHllv maybe made from tart apples, but it should be 
flavorr>d with lemon juice. 

The "O. K." Double Washboard i.^ thoroughly covered by patents, 
and all infringora avUI Ih' promptly <!4'nlt with according to law. 



23 
WHITE SPONGE CAKE. 

Thft whites of 10 eggs beaten to a stiff froth, 1 and a half cups 
of granulated sugar, one teaspoonfnl cream tartar sifted four 
times through one cup of Hour; beat the sugar and eggs to- 
gether, stir the Hour in lightly, but thoroughly, and bake forty 
minutes in an ungreased pan. 

HOME-MADE COLOGNE. 

One-fourth ounce of oil of lavender, one-fourth ounce of oil 
of bergatnot, one-eighth ounce of oil of jessamine, twenty-five 
drops of oil of neroli, and 1 pint of pure spirits of wine. 
Shake well. 

A horseshoe is reekouod to ba a lucky wivMing pr-'scnt; but the best 
wedding ]>r(>8ent wc know of, is an "O. K." Double Washboard. 

VEAL CUTLET. 

Fry the ui »ak, as usual, whm done, have prepared some 
crushed crackers and eggs well beaten, dip the meat in the 
eggs, then roll in th ; cracker, put back in the pan and fry till 
brown. 

OMELET. 

To n. tablespoon of fiour' add a teacup of milk, and stir till 
smooth, beat 4 eggs to a froth, i)our in the inilk and flour and 
stir; havt' r^ady a frying pan with a little butter, ])onr in and 
stir till tiiick. theii let fry till you can cntit in segments; turn 
over and fry the other side till done. This makes a dish for f> 
persons. 

GELATINE PUDDING. 

One-half box of Cox's gelatine dissolved in ou'^-half pint of 
boiling water, and v.'iien cold, add tiie jiice of :{ lemons, 2 
cups of sugar, and the beaten whites of 4 eggs; pour in a 
mold and set away until the following day. 

Sauce foi- the Above Puddins* 

Put a quart of milk in a pan, place in a kettle of boiling 
water, when it is near boiling, add the yolks of 4 eggs, beaten 
very light with 2 or 3 tablespoons of sugar, 1 tablespoon of 
corn starch di:<solved in a little cold milk, and a pinch of salt. 
Boil until thick. 



24 
GRAPE BIARMALADE. 

Put tho grapes in a pan, place over a kettle of boiling water, 
cook untilsoft. when cold, rnb throngh a flour seive; to every 
pint of pulp add tlireo-fuirtli pound of sugar: j>ut i-i a pan 
again and cook until thick, then pour in bowls or jelly glasses 
and seal. 

HO-W TO MAKE COFFEr. 

One pound Java, 2 pounds Rio, mix and grind. i)ut in tight 
cans to kee]) from losing its strength. To 1 large tablespoon 
of coffee add two cu])S of boiling water, h t it just come to a 
boil, place it wliere it will k(^cp hot till your meal is ready, 
then take it off the stove 2 or 3 minutes l)efore pouring out. 

BISCUIT. 

Five cups even fidl of flour, two cups of sweet milk, four 
teaspoons of good 5^east ])owd"r. and a litth> salt and butter. 
Mix and knead until smooth, roll out about three-fourth of an 
Inch thick, and bake as quickly as possible. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

One cup sugar, 3 eggs, 1 cup sweet milk, oiushalf cup but- 
ter, 2 cups flour. 1 teaspoon baking powder, or 1 teaspoon soda 
and 2 ot" cnvun tartar. Bake in 3 tins. 

For the filling take the whites of 2 eggs, and yolk of 1, 
beat ver}' light, add from l-^to 2 cups pulvcriz(Hl sugar, one- 
half cup of grated chocolate melteil in boiling watei", vanilla 
to taste, put between the layers and on the top and sides of 
the cake. 

Don't preach charity and leave somebody else to practice it. IJetter 
buy an "O. K " Double Washboard, and make a present of it to your 
washwoman. 

TO CAN TRUIT. 

Prepai-e the fruit and weigh, fill the cans jind place them on 
a thin board i i a moderately hot oven. Prepare the syrup in 
the proportions given below; scald the syrup, and when the 
fruit i I Ihe cans is heated through, lill tlie cans with syrup 
and seal up ; c xaminc next morning and if not light, beat in 



26 

the oven again, leaving the syrup on the fruit. The rubber 

gaskets sbould not be put iuthe oven or they would be spoiled. 
.y tliis metliod the fruit is preserved intact and has a beautiful 
appearance. Syrup to pour over the fruit requires 3-4 
pound of sugar to 1 pound cherries, plums and strawberries; 
one-half pound of sugar to 1 pound of raspberries, peaches, 
quinces, pineapples and apples ; one-fourth pound of sugar to 
1 pound pears, blackberries and citron. 

PARKER HOUSE ROLLS. 

Put 1 quart flour ia bread pan, have ic cover the boltoni and 
push it up around tiie sides; in tliis put four tablespoons 
sugar, a little salt and one cup of good yeast. Scald 1 quart 
of new milk, vvnen it cools so it wid not scald the ycasr. pour 
it in the pan, set in a warm place; wnen it looks foamy or has 
bubbles in it, add Hour enougn to have it knead without stick- 
ing, if you have time knead longer; place it back and when it 
is risen light and nice, kacail io again, roll out half as thick as 
we roll biscuit, cut with a biscuit cutter and double it over; 
the roll will be a half circle; butter the outside with nicltc<i 
butter and place them in rows in baking pans, put thcni in a 
cool jjlacc until thirty niimites before you wish t.> bake them, 
then bring them where it is warm; let I hem rise fast; when 
light bake in a quick oven. If you want them a l.ctle extra, 
keep the dough where it is warm and knead a fj\v mi.intes 
every time it comes up. 

lie that lags behind in the road where many arc driving will always 
bo ia a tloud cf dust; but ho who buys au "O. K." Double Washboard 
Will always wcar the cleanest shirt. 

PRESSED CHICKEN. 

Boil a chicken until tpudcr, chop fine, season well with pe; - 
per, salt and butter, put into a cloth, put a weight upon it. 
aiid press like headcheese. 

CHICKEN CROQUETS. 

Chop pieces of cold chicken fine, and add an egg, or small 
piece of butter, well powdered crackers, salt and pepper. 
Make into fiat caVes, dip them in raw egg and cracker crumbs, 
as for oysters, and fry. 



28 
GENERAL HINTS. 

Cabbage should always bo boiled in two waters. 

Fat should always be very hot before fish arc put in, and the 
lish should be turned frequentl}'. 

Stewed meat sliould be put ia l)oiling water and boiled very 
slowly. When making soups, put the meat in cold water and 
boil slowdy. 

In baking cakes, the cream tartar or baking powder should 
always be addeti to the Hour, and the whole passed through a 
seive. 

Lemon juice and glycerine will remove tan and freckles, and 
.soften the hajids. 

Benzine and common clay will clean marble. 

Castor oil is excellent to soften leather. 

Parsley, eaten with vinegar, will remove the unpleasant 
eflects of eating onions. 

To Clean Jewelry.— VVasli in soap suds, rinse in diluted 
alcohol, and lay in a box of dry sawdust to dry. 

For soft corns, dip a piece of linen clotli in turpentine and 
wrap it round tlie toe on which the corn is situated, night and 
morning. Tlie relief will be immediate, and after a few days 
the corn will disapi)ear. 

To Deaden a Fire. — If you are in a linrry to broil a steak 
and the tire is to brisk, a little salt will deaden it. 

Wet a flannel cloth in kerosene, dip it in dry whiting, and 
rub the plate ware. Let it dry on it. and then polisli it with a 
chamois skin. 

Chalk, or magnesia, rubbed on silk or ribbon that has been 
greased, and held near the lire will absorb the grease so that 
It may be brushed off. 

In warm weather lay eggs in very cold water half an hour 
befjre using, and they will beat up as light as ia cold weather. 

Always stir cake one way, from left to right. 

Sugar is an admirable ingredient ia curing meat or lish. 

WASr Stino. — A lump of wet saleratus applied to the spot 
stung by a wasp will atford instant ndief. The alkali property 
neautralizes the poison. 



A free use of lemon juice and sugar will always relieve a 
cough. Most people "feel poorly in the spring, but if they 
would eat a lemon before breakfast every day for a week — 
with or without sugar, as they like— they would lind it better 
than any medicine. 

Keep 3'east in wood or glass. 

Keep meal and flour in a cool, dry place. 

Keep vinegar in wood or glass. 

I.ard for pastry should be used hard as it can be cut with a 
knifvi. It shouUf be cut through the Hour, not rubbed. 

A cheerful face is nearlv as good for an invali 1 as healthy woathor. 
An "O K." Double Washboard will cure thj worst caso of dlriij shirt 
that ever existed. 

Lemon and Okangk Tinctuke.— Xever throw away lemon 
or oranga peel; cut tne yellow outside off carefully, and put 
into a tigtitly corked bottle, with enough alcohol to cover it. 
Let it stand until the alcohol i-s brightly yellow, then pour it 
off, bottle it tight, and use it for llavoring. Add lemon nnd 
alcohol as often an you have it, and you will always hav- a 
nice llavoring. 

If the '-tronbh-d housekeeper" will keep lier lard in a cool, 
dry place, or on a table in a well-aired cellar, where the can 
or j ir will not come in contact with a damp wall, trouble will 
h^ at au end. 

B,).t,AX.— Ladies who have not tested the magic properties 
id* b)rax, have been losin<| a great help and comfort. If Oiice 
Ui'.A, you will never be witliout a bottle on your toilet table. 
Ic r.i-noves stains and dirt from the hands better tha i sonp, 
ail It the san; tini> softens a id smooth U,h > skin. It is splen- 
did far wasiiing tlie hair, and will without injury, cleanse 
brushes and combs in a few moments. 

Th'j: Housewife's Table.— rh^ following is a very valua- 
ble iions nvifj s table, by which persons not having scales at 
hi id may readily measure the articles wanted to form any 
rjn 0.3 without tlr^ trouble of weighing, allowance to be mado 
f >r a!i extraordinary dryness or moisture of the articles weigh 
ed or measured; , 

Wiieat Hour, I pound is 1 qiart; Indian meal,! pound 3 
ounces are 1 quart ; butter, when soft, 1 pound is 1 quart ; 



28 

loaf sugar, broken, 1 pound is 1 quart; white sup:ar, powder- 
ed, 1 pound 1 ounce are 1 quart; best brown sugar, 1 pound 2 
ounces are 1 quart; 16 tablespoonfuls are ^ pint; 4 table- 
spoons are A gill; 2 gills are -i pint; 2 pints are 1 qnart; 4 
qnarts are 1 gallon; a connnon sized tnnibler holds h piiit; a 
teacup is 1 gill; a large tablespoon is h tluid ounce; 60 drops 
are eqnal to 1 teaspoonful; 4 teaspoontuls are equal to 1 table- 
spoonful. 

Like th(? music of tlv Hphcn'a, 

Tliat never make u discord, 
Is the music in the tub 

Of the "O. K." Doubh; Washboai'il. 

TO PRESERVE A BOUQUET. 

Sprinkle it lightl}' with fresh water, and put it in a vase con- 
taining soap suds. Each morning take it out of the suds and 
lay it sidewaj'S in clean water; keep ir thei'c a minute or two. 
then take it out and sprinkle the llowers liglitly by the hand 
with water. Replace it in the suds, and it will bloom as fresh- 
ly as when first gathered. Change the suds every tliree or 
four days. This method will keep a bouquet bright and beau- 
tifid for at least a month. 

TO REMOVE MiEDElV FROM LINEN. 

Wet the linen which contains mildew, in soft water, ruh it 
well with wiiite soap, then scrape some line chalk to powder, 
and rub it well into the linen, lay it out on the grass in the 
Bimshine, watching it to keep it damp with soft water. Re- 
peat thf^ process the next day, and in a few hours the mildew 
will entirely disappear. 

TO REMC iTB STAINS FROM THE HANDS. 

Put a small quantity of oxalic acid in a bottle with sufficient 
soft water to dissolve. To use, droj) a little of the solution in 
a wash dish of water, in which wash the hands. 

Verdant John. "What is tlie reason the "O. K." is called a Doubk 
WusJu^o^crd?" Enterprising CI. i k. "Why, because the women can wash 
dotiuleih.'. iwimhar of sJiirts on it in tm; hame ti'ue lliat lh<.y can. oxi 
any other boaru." 



29 
TO RESTORE COLORS TAKKN OUT BY ACIDS. 

Sal-volatile of hartshorn will remove score colors taken out 
bv acids. 

TO KILL RATS. 

Mix carbonate of bjuytes. 2 ounces, with grease, 1 pound 
This is tasteless, odorless and a deadly poison, hence care 
must be exercised. Water must be set near as it produces 
thirst innnediately, and after drinking they die before they 
have time to go back into their holes. 

TO DRIVE AW^AY RATS, 

Scotch snuff or cayenne pepper, spread freely in their Ijolea 
will cause rats to lefive at a sneezing pace. 

HORN DISTEMPER IN CATTLE. 

Many a valuabh; cow is lost every season, that might be 
saved if the following dose was administered : Six tablespoons 
soot from a i;liimncy where wood is burned, 1 tablespoon each 
of salt, ground black pepper, and ginger, add 3 eggs, stir, 
thicken With meal, and make into balls; elevate the head, 
draw out the tongue, and place the balls far back in the throat, 
where they must be swallowed, liepeat the doses 3 or 4 
mornings. 

FURNITURE POLISH. 

Take 1 coffee-cupful of cold drawn linseed oil, 1 of turpen- 
tine ;ind one of vinegar, with three tablespoonfuls alc(»bol 
mixed into it. Pour iiito a bottle and shake rapidly. Takc^ a 
little of it iii a saucer; ilip into it a bit of llaniu.4. and rub the 
furniture until nearlvdry; then roll a bit of flannel into a 
tight roll at least three inches in diameter; sew it up closely, 
and rub the polish in until it shines. 

BRINE FOR MEAT. 

Two gallons water, S pounds salt, 2 ounces saltpetre, 1 quart 
molasses. 

(Mrs. Peters.) "1 often wondered liow it way that Mrs. Jonrs could 
get time to make calls on wash day. I'vi'. found out; she has got one 
of those "Q. K." D uhlt; Washboards. 1 mean to have one too; I'll ask 
Sam to buy mo oiu- la is very night." 



UBRARVOFCONGRE^^^ 




014 480 045 A 



GRAMMAR IN 

Three little words you 
Are articles, a, an and i 

A Noun 's the name of ; 
As school^ or garden^ ho< 
Adjectives tell the kind of Noun, 
As greats small^ pretty^ vjhita orlroion. 

Instead of Nouns the Pronouns stand — 
Her face, hU face, your arm, my hand. 

Verbs tell of something to be done — 
To read^ count, sing^ laugh^ jump or run. 
How things are done, the adverbs tell, 

As sloidy, quickly, ill or icell. 

Conjunctions join the words together, 
As men and women, wind or weather. 

The Preposition stands before 
A Noun, as in or through a door. 

The Interjection shows surprise. 

As ''o/i/ how pretty," "ah I how wise."" 

The whole are called nine, parts of speech, 
Which reading, writing, speaking, teach. 



Witliin this little book is storod 
A fund of Wit and Wisdom; 
Given free with a Washboard, 
The best one in all Christendom. 
And of our worthy patron 
We here would kindly ask, 
Ts it not the very best one, 
And \ our wash an easy task? 
And if our words are true, 
As you can justly say; 
Pi*ay tell your neighbors, do! 
Our Washboards are "O. K." 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 

■Hi 

014 480 045 P W 



