Google 



This is a digital copy of a book lhal w;ls preserved for general ions on library shelves before il was carefully scanned by Google as pari of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

Il has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one thai was never subject 

to copy right or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often dillicull lo discover. 

Marks, notations and other marginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher lo a library and linally lo you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud lo partner with libraries lo digili/e public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order lo keep providing this resource, we have taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial panics, including placing Icchnical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make n on -commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request thai you use these files for 
personal, non -commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain from automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort lo Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attribution The Google "watermark" you see on each lile is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use. remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 

countries. Whether a book is slill in copyright varies from country lo country, and we can'l offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liability can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through I lie lull lexl of 1 1 us book on I lie web 
al |_-.:. :.-.-:: / / books . qooqle . com/| 




SWINBORNE'S 

PATENT CALVES' FEET GELATINE, 

In 6d. and is. packets, 

US THE CHEAPEST AND BIST FOR MAKING 

JELLIES, BLANC-MANGE, &c. 

Directions for uae enclosed in c*ch packet. 



See recipes on page VJ6 qf this book. 



Good Cookery d«B«rres to b« accompanied by good appointments. 

KNIVES CLEANED BY 

COWDER Y'S NEW PROCESS 

are immediately recognized at 
table by their BBIOHT, 
smooth:, silvery appear- 
ance, which can be produeed 

The BLADES ARE NOT WORN 
THIN and the HANDLES ABE 
NOT BBOKEN, so that Cutlery 
will last at least four timea aa 
long as when cleaned by or- 
dinary methods, and always 
looks well. 

Carving Forks are easily cleaned in nil parts, and the Books 
md Shoulders of the Bjuveg. 




THE LADY-HELP KHIFE CLEANER. 

Simplicity itself. PRICE 25S- Any one can use it. 

Will suit the Smallest Kitchen, and do the work of a 

Large Household. 

Does not want Periodical Repairs. 

No parts concealed from view. Saves its cost every year. 

Cleanly, Durable, Economical. 

THE DESPATCH KNIFE CLEANER, 

PRICE 30s. 
Take£ up no more room than tile "Lady Help," and on the same 
principle, but with an arrangement to counteract] the Knife 
pulling upon the hand. 



NATIONAL TRAINING SCHOOL FOR COOKERY, SOUTH KENSINGTON, 
Loudon, S. W. 27th January, 1880. 
"The Pupils at the School of Cookery find the 'Ladt-Hblp' Tory 
useful, and a peflt saving of labour and time." , 



Prize Medal, Sydney Fxhis 



R. HODD & M, Isra^^vv 

30 & 31, HATTOTS dKSSSEe., \BSKSS*-. 



POPULAR 



LESSONS ON COOKERY. 



BY A 



FORMEB STAFF TEACHER OF THE NATIONAL 
TRAINING SCHOOL OF COOKERY. 



" Then are scientific principles lying at the foundation of the Art of 
Cookery, as of every other human art : and if you neglect to apply them 
—if you neglect to educate yoic oooks^Jn-ttwm— you must expect to 
suffer."— Db, Laxkestee. / k < .\,\0 ! A///^ 

(.MAY ^fcj 



GRIFFITH AND FARRAN, 

SUCCESSORS TO NEWBBSY ▲BDHABBI8, 

CONNER OF ST. PAUL'S CHURCHYARD, LONDON. 
E. P. DUTTON k CO., NEW YORK. 

MDCCCLXXX. 



<llf 



7 



The Bight of Translation and of Reproduction are reserved. 



This book professes to be nothing more than 
a faithful transcript of demonstration lessons 
given in various parts of London, its suburbs, 
and the country. It is published by the desire 
of numerous pupils, and will, it is hoped, prove 
useful to the general public as well as to those 
at whose request it is sent forth. 

Gbeenleap Lane, Walthamstow, 
June, 1880. 



CONTENTS. 





PAGE 




PAGB 


Aigrettes de Parmesan 


... 158 


Cake, plain plum, 84 ; 


dough, 


A Ik mode Beef 


... 28 


85 ; seed, 85 ; rock 


... 86 


Albumen, 1; coagulates 


... 91 


Carrots 


... 133 


Apple Charlotte, 171 ; 


frit- 


Cauliflower au gratin 


... 132 


ters, 42 ; sauce, 101 ; 


Celery 


... 131 


yf ftier ... 


... 94 


Charlotte Russe 


... 185 


Arrowroot, 96 ; souffle'e 


... 96 


Cheap Dishes 


58 


Asparagus ... 


... 131 


Cheese fondue, 149; straws... 166 


Aspic Jelly ... 


... 172 


Chicken Croquettes... 


... 116 






Chopping . 


... 7 


Bacon, to broil 


... 32 


Clear Soup 


... 110 


Baking Meat 


... 3 


Clarifying Fat 


... 4 


Baking Powder 


11, 82 


Colcannon 


... 24 


Barley Water 


... 94 


Cold Meat, why warm 


... 15 


Batter, 7 ; for frying 


42,74 


Colouring for Gravies 


... o 


Beans, 24; haricot... 


... 24 


Cornish Pasties 


63 


Beef -tea, 88; cold infusion... 91 


Cookery for the Sick 


... 87 


Blackjack 


... 8 


Cow-heel 


... 19 


Blanc-mange, 57 ; of 


cow- 


Crime frite 


... 156 


neel ... ... 


... 19 


Croquettes, 127; d'homard 141 


Boiling, 15 ; rabbit, 


20; 


Crust dripping 11; 


flakey 


salt-meat, 16 ; potato 


,21; 


50; short 


... 53 


green vegetables ... 


... 23 


Currants 


... 46 


Bone-forming matter 


56,67 


Curry of cold meat, 13 


; rab- 


Bone-soup ... 


... 25 


bit, 122; lobster, 


123; 


Braizing 


... 105 


Prawns ... 


... 124 


Bran-tea 


... 95 


Custard, baked 54 ; cream,... 189 


Bread, 77, 80 ; Vienna 


78; 


Cutlets, mutton 125 ; 


a la 


aerated 82 ; unfermented 83 


soubise, 126; lobster, 137 ; 


Brisket of Beef 


... 17 


> Cell • • • . , . 


... 124 


Broiling, 30 ; steak, 


81; 






fish 


... 71 






Brown Meal... 


... 78 


Decoctions 


... 94 


Brussels Sprouts 


23, 129 


Dough Cake 


... O0 


Butter, maitre d'hotel 


... 32 


Draw Poultry, to ... 


... 102 






Dripping Crust 
I DrjFt^Yfc^ 


... It 


Cabinet- pudding 


... 169 




Cakes, Fish 


... 76 


* » *** 



CONTENTS. 



PAGE 

Eggs, 58 ; to beat up 96 ; 
to beat whites, 147 ; to 
boil hard 181 ; sauce 104, 131 

Entries ... ... ... 116 

Fillet Fish, to 141 

Fish, 67 ; freshness of 68 ; 
boiling 68; garnish for 69 ; 
to bake 70 ; stuffing for 
70; fresh- water 71; to 
broil 71 ; sauce 142 ; to 
fry 73 ; to pot 75 ; cakes 76 
Flesh-formers 10, 24, 35, 78 

Flour ••• ••• ••• 78 

Force-producers 10, 24, 35, 56 
Fritters, apple 42; German 
44 ; cold meat 44 ; pars- 
nip 44; tripe 44; oysters 140 
Fruit-pudding, 48 ; pie, 53 ; 
cream ... ... ... 184 

Frying, 32 ; basket, 119 ; fat, 
to keep, 40 ; fat, heat of, 
42, 118 ; potatoes, 44 ; 
batter, 42 ; fish, 73 ; 
whiting ... 144 



Gateau de Fruit 


... 155 


Genoese Pastry 


... 164 


German Sauce 


... 168 


Giblets 


... 101 


Gingerbread, 87 ; nuts 


... 86 


vriaze ... ... 


... 17 


Goblet-pie ... 


... 11 



Gravy, 3, 8, 10 ; for birds, 

101; to colour ... ... 8 

Grenadines of Veal ... ... 120 

Gridirons ... ... ... 31 

Gruel ... ... ••• 9o 

Haddock, baked ... ... 70 

Haricot Beans, 24; mutton 29 

Hash ... ... ... 9 

Heart, to roast ... ... 7 

Hollandaise Sauce ... ••• 131 



Iceland Moss 
Infusions 



93 
94 



PAGE 

Invalid -pudding ... ... 92 

Irish Moss, 93; Irish Stew 61 

Isinglass ... ... ... 90 

Jellies, 172 ; aspic, 172 ; to 
clear 174, 178; of gela- 
tine, 176 ; lemon 177 ; 

milk ... ... ... 20 

Jerusalem Soup ... ... 113 

Larding ... ... ... 120 

Lemonade ... ... ... 93 

Lemon Souftle'e, 148 ; jelly, 

177; pudding 171 

Liver and Bacon ... ... 34 

Lobster Salad, 136 ; cutlets, 

137; coral 138 

Maccaroni 64 

Mackerel a la Normande, 71 ; 

broiled, 72; fried 142 

Maitre d'hotel butter ... 32 

Marinade 72 

Mayonnaise Sauce ... ... 135 

Meat-pudding, 49 ; pie, to 

bake ... ... ... 164 

Melted Butter 21 

Milk Jelly, 20 ; puddings, 55 ; 

rolls, 83 ; soup ... ... 66 

Mutton, haricot of, 29 ; broth, 

91; cutlets 125 

Norfolk Dumplings .. . ... 9 

Normande Sauce ... ... 131 

Nottingham Jars 20, 28, 75, 89 

Omelette, fines herbes, 38; 

sweet, 39 ; souftle'e, 150 ; 

plain ... ... ... 151 

Orangeade 93 

Ox-tail Soup 27 

Oyster Fritters, 140 ; patties, 

163 ; sauce ... ... 140 

Pancakes ... ... ... 36 

Pastry, 159 ; puff, 160 ; to 

bake, 163 ; Genoese, 164; 

short ... ... ... 166 



CONTENTS. 



Vll 



PAGE 

Patties, 11, 53 ; oyster ... 163 

Peas 23, 129 

Plaice ... ... ... 74 

Pork, pickled 18 

Pot an feu ... ... ... 59 

Potatoes, boiled 21 ; baked 

23, 128; mashed 11; crast, 

11 ; ribbons and chips, 44 ; 

saute*, 127 ; fried 127 ; 

croquettes, 127; salad ... 128 
Padding, to boil, 46 ; to take 

up, 6, 57 ; to boil in cloth, 

5, 47 ; crust for 48, 50 ; 

to steam, 92 ; treacle 48 ; 

invalid 92; vennoise 167; 

lemon 171; amber 170; 

queen of 171 

Pure'e of Artichokes, 113 ; 

green-pea 114 

Rabbit, to boil, 20 ; Ragout 

of 28; curry of 122 

Ramaquins ... ... ... 150 

Rice, to boil for curry, 13, 56 ; 

Carolina 92, 94; water... 94 
Rissoles ... ... ... 14 

Roasting, rules for 1 ; loin of 
mutton, 2; en casserole ... 7 

Rock Cakes... 86 

Roly-poly pudding 50 

Root Vegetables ... ... 17 

Russian Salad 153 

Salad, 133 ; lobster 136 ; 

Russian 153 ; tomatoes 137 
Salt Meat, boiling ... 16, 18 
Sauce piquante, 72 ; fish 142 
for boiled fowl, 104 ; white 
124; egg 131; Normande 
131 ; Hollandaise 131 ; 
Mayonnaise 135 ; Tartare 
136 ; oyster 140; lobster 
141 ; for fish, 142 ; Ger- 
man 168 

Sausages, to fry, 34 ; rolls ... 52 

Savoury Custard 112 

Seakale ... 131 

Seed Cake ... A5 



PAGE 

Semolina Pudding ... ... 55 

Shepherd's Pie 10 

Sole, to fry 73; to fillet 
142 ; a la maitre d^otel, 

142; au gratin 143 

Soups, 25, 61 ; thickening for 
25; to clear 108, 110; 
shin of beef 10 ; ox- tail 
27; maigre au lait ... 66 

SoufH&s, steamed and baked, 
145 ; vanilla 147 ; lemon 
148; omelette ... ... 150 

Spanish Onions ... ... 24 

Spinach ... ... ... 130 

Steak, to boil 31 ; to stew ... 107 

Stewing 24, 27 

Stirring ... ... ... 6 

Stock 26, 109 

Stuffing, for veal, 7 ; duck ... 99 
Suet pudding, 5 ; to chop ... 5 

Tapioca, 56 ; bouillon, 60 ; 

cream soup ... ... 115 

Tartare Sauce ... ... 136 

Tepid Water... ... ... 42 

Toad in the Hole ... ... 65 

Toast and Water 95 

Treacle pudding, 48 ; posset... 96 
Tripe ... ... ... 18 

Truss, rabbit, 20, 28; duck, 

99; chicken ... ... 103 

Turning out a pudding ... 6, 57 

Vanilla Soufltee 147 

Veal stuffing, 7 ; Cutlets a la 
Talleyrand, 124 ; grena- 
dines of 120 ; braized 105; 
cutlets to broil ... ... 33 

Vegetables, 126 ; to boil, 17 ; 
green ... ... ... 23 

Vennoise Pudding ... ..• 167 

Vienna Flour 160 

Vol-au-vent ... ... ... 16* 



\ 



Water, heat of 
Wet frying... 

Wheat 

White Sauce... 



.. 14 

56,78 
... ^s^A, 
... ^<*» 



PLAIN COOKERY. 



FIRST LESSON. 

ROASTING, AND PUDDINGS GENERALLY EATEN WITH MEAT. 

There are six primary ways of cooking meat, Boasting, 
the most savoury; Baking, the easiest; Stewing, the 
most economical ; Boiling, the simplest ; Prying, the 
quickest ;Broi]ing, most wholesome and easily digested. 

The rules in every case are founded on the same 
principles, and I must first teach you a little of the 
action of heat upon the four principal component parts 
of meat, Albumen, Fibrine, Gelatine, and the Red Juices. 
Albumen is hardened in proportion to the amount of 
heat you apply to it ; the white of an egg is the most 
familiar example of this. Fibrine also is hardened 
and contracted by great heat ; it is the chief part of 
the lean of meat. Gelatine becomes hard, horny, and 
indigestible in a dry heat, but dissolves readily in a moist. 
The red juices are the most important to preserve 
in cooking, since without them meat is comparatively 
valueless. 

The rules for roasting are three. 1st. You allow 15 
minute/i to the lb., and 15 over, for red meats, beef 
and mutton ; 20 minutes to the lb., and 20 over, for 
white, such as pork and veal. If your joint is a very solid 
piece of meat, such as rump of beef, allow 20 minutes to 
the lb. 2nd. Put it close to the fire for the first 5 
minutes, then draw it further away. 3rd. Keep it 
basted and. turned frequently. If you learn the 
reason for every rule, you will remember them better. 
The first requires no e&p\&n&\aan.% $aa ^fcRwo^ V 5 *- 
will understand in a minute, M y>\]L>ftsx&. A ^asfc. v 



have just now said of the effect of heat. We want to 
preserve the red juices. By putting the meat close to 
the fire, the albumen and gelatine harden, and the 
fibrine contracts on the exposed surface, thus forming a 
case from which the juices cannot escape unless we 
make a hole in it. Five minutes is sufficient to effect 
this ; if left longer close to the fire, the hardening process 
would continue, until the meat was indigestible, that 
is to say, insoluble. Everything we eat must be 
converted into blood before it can nourish our bodies, 
and what is not capable of solution by the digestive 
fluids is of no use to us. The object of cookery is to 
prepare the food in the most digestible, as well as 
palatable manner. The third rule is that you must 
keep it well turned, so that all sides are equally cooked ; 
baste it frequently to assist the process, and prevent its 
drying up. Meat shrinks if not well basted. 

The first thing before roasting is to attend to the 
fire. Sweep the hearth, and make up a good one, so 
that it will last till the joint is done. If it is necessary 
to mend it while the meat is roasting, draw the coals 
forward with a shovel, and add fresh at the back. 
Put a tin down to catch the dripping, and have a spoon 
ready on a plate to baste with ; if you leave it in the 
dripping-pan the handle gets too hot to hold. A meat- 
screen economises the coals by reflecting heat and 
keeping off currents of cold air ; even a clothes-horse and 
clothes answer the latter purpose. The stove and screen 
should be beautifully bright, so as to reflect the heat. 
Highly polished surfaces reflect, while dull ones absorb ; 
hence keep the sides of saucepans and kettles bright, 
and the bottoms black. Now consider the meat. There 
are, rules for the preparation of the joint. 1st. Trim off 
all superfluous fat. Take for example a loin of mutton. I 
should pare off nearly half an inch of fat. Some may object 
and say, " It would keep the meat from shrinking, and 
will turn to dripping." — True ; but I am teaching you 
to cook meat, so that it will scarcely shrink at all ; and 
the fat so that it can \>e use<i iot ^fcrj « 



cakes, for which dripping is of too strong a flavour. 
2nd. Never wash meat ; it prevents its browning, and 
draws out the red juices ; wipe it thoroughly instead. 
3rd. Never use skewers, they make holes which let out 
the red juices ; fasten your meat into shape with string. 
4th. Hang the thickest part downwards ; the greatest 
amount of heat is at the bottom of the fire. 5th. Never 
flour your meat to make it brown; burnt flour is 
unwholesome, and thorough basting produces a better 
colour, with greater succulency. Loin of mutton requires 
jointing between each bone with a chopper ; the flap, 
or thin piece, must be rolled up underneath. It must 
then be tied with string, and weighed to ascertain how 
long it must roast. Put the hook through the string 
if possible, or in a firm part, where there is least juice, 
as it will unavoidably make a hole. Wind the jack 
before the meat is hung up ; then draw it close to the 
fire, and see that it is turning properly before you leave 
it. After five minutes, draw it further away, and baste 
frequently by pouring the fat that has run into the pan 
upon it. When you roast in a Dutch or American oven, 
put the bony side to the fire first. In winter, if the 
meat is frozen, bring it into the kitchen an hour or two 
before cooking, that it may thaw gradually. 

The next consideration is gravy. Too many people 
use a little hot water to rinse out the dripping tin and 
pour over the meat, and call it gravy. It is much 
better to take some bones, or pieces (the shank-bone 
from legs and shoulders), and put them in- a saucepan 
with one pint of cold water, half a teaspoonful of salt, a 
ittle pepper, an onion in its skin, and a bunch of herbs, 
to simmer while the meat is roasting. Onion skins 
colour gravy; French colouring is made of them. 
Cooks throw salt on the joint to make gravy; but it 
is to the detriment of the meat. Whence does it 
come? It is the red juice the salt draws out; and 
that is just what should be ke\>t m. ^ \& Va^ 
better to boil down bones ot -piefcfefc. \ V&. %ss^j*» 
when the meat is ready. TV» x\i\fi» *« to**s»*> 



apply to baking, therefore there is no special lesson on it. 
It is a favourite way of cooking, because it gives very little 
trouble; but it is not economical. That meat 
wastes more in baking is the experience of practical 
people, though scientific experiments may prove the 
reverse. The ventilator in the oven should be open, 
to produce a current of air, and let the gases generated 
from the meat escape. Set your joint on a trivet over 
a tin which will catch the dripping, and do not put water 
under it; it would make it sodden and prevent its 
browning. 

I will now teach you to clarify fat. You may 
buy caul or fat from the butcher, or use pieces you 
have trimmed from meat. Beef, mutton, pork, or veal 
fat, cooked or uncooked, may be rendered down together 
for clarified fat, a far better preparation than dripping. 
Flare, or pork fat alone, makes lard. Cut the fat in 
half-inch squares, removing any lean from cooked fat ; 
all that is brown must be cut away. Beef fat is softest 
when clarified, and therefore preferable for pastry and 
cakes ; mutton is harder, and more suitable for frying. 
Put the pieces in a saucepan with half pint of cold water, 
cover it, and let it boil gently for one hour ; the steam 
purifies and whitens the fat. Stir it from time to 
time with an iron spoon. After the hour, let it boil 
without the lid till all the water is evaporated, and 
nothing remains but liquid fat and shrivelled pieces of 
skin. Let it cool for a few minutes before straining, 
or it will crack the pan ; and then press the pieces to 
squeeze out all fat. Half pint of cold water gives 
sufficient steam to clarify four pounds of fat; more 
must have one pint. Be careful that all the water 
is boiled out, or the fat will not be good for pastry or 
frying. Two signs will guide you. No steam will rise 
when you stir, and the liquid will be clear and 
transparent ; while water is there, it looks opaque and 
milky. The pieces of skin are called scraps, and can 
be eaten with bread and salt, or made into scrap rolls. 
Clarified fat is an excellent 8u\»titoteiox W\tefc\a> <s&fe* 



5 



and pastry, and is better and cheaper than lard for frying. 
It costs you, if you buy the fat, from 7d. to 8d. a lb. 
In our second lesson we shall use it for pastry and 
frying. Dripping is clarified differently : it is poured 
quite hot into cold water. All impurities Bink to the 
bottom, and, when cold, the fat can be taken off the 
top of the water in a firm cake, the bottom of which 
requires scraping. Eemember, dripping is the droppings 
from meat; clarified fat, that which has been boiled 
down in water. 

I shall now teach you Suet J?udding. The first thing 
is to put on the saucepan in which to boil it. I might 
give you as a rule, always consider your means of 
cooking first, and next get together your materials . Here 
we want a quarter lb. suet, a half lb. Hour, ahalf teaspoonfui 
baking powder, some water, a pudding-cloth, and string. 
Either beef or mutton suet will do ; beef is the richer, 
mutton the more digestible. To chop it properly, 
sprinkle your board with flour, remove the skin and any 
lean, and flake it ; that is, cut it in very thin slices with 
a sharp knife. It is no use cutting it into thick pieces. 
Good habits are invaluable in cooking, and you will 
find things come much more easily by and bye, if you 
have got into right ways of doing them at first. Then 
sprinkle a little flour over the suet, and chop small 
quantities at a time, until it is as fine as bread crumbs ; 
chop lightly or the pudding will be heavy. Put the 
flour into a basin, mix the suet in lightly, add tho 
baking powder, and mix it with cold water into a firm 
paste. You should mix with your hand ; it is lighter 
than a spoon. Add the water by degrees ; it will take 
about a quarter of a pint. (As a rule flour takes up 
half its weight of water; the better the flour, tho 
more water it takes up). Put the water into a well 
in the centre of the flour, and mix from the sides 
by degrees. It should be sufficiently stiff to take the 
form of a ball easily. If it is too vr«t^ \t -w^\\s&\*b 
light. Boll the ball Tound ftfe Wm, *& *& to'Saw*"*^ 
free torn flour or paste. An to&i&j tsocfc^**^* ^osso^ 



6 

to make a dumpling. Dip a pudding cloth in boiling water, 
squeeze it dry, dredge flour over the wet centre, shake 
off what does not adhere, put your pudding on it, gather 
up the cloth evenly all round, and tie it securely, but 
not tightly, leaving room for it to swell Put it into the 
boiling water which must be enough to cover it, turn it 
about once or twice, to be sure it is not sticking to 
the bottom of the saucepan, and leave it for an hour to 
boiL If ) T ou boil it in a basin, grease the basin, and 
give it an hour and a half. 

When you take up a nudding, do not be in a hurry 
to turn it out, or it is sure to stick ; allow it to cool 
slightly, untie the string, reverse it onto a dish, and gently 
draw back the cloth ; don't drag it up or you will peel 
off the outside of the pudding. The cloth should be 
washed in the water in which the pudding was boiled, 
then rinsed in hot water and dried off quickly in the 
open air. Sussex pudding is a long shaped suet 
pudding, taken up half an hour before dinner, cut in 
slices, and laid in the dripping tin under the meat to 
brown. 

I am next going to show you how Yorkshire pudding 
is made. This should be prepared some time before 
cooking ; it improves by standing. To 1 pint of milk 
allow 2 eggs, a pinch of salt, and a half lb. flour. Put the 
flour into a basin, break the eggs one by one into a 
cup, and add them separately, for fear one should be 
bad and spoil the flour. Stir them with a wooden 
spoon, (wooden spoons should be used for mixing, and 
metal ones for measuring), until tbey have taken up 
sufficient flour, then begin to stir in the milk by degrees. 
Always stir with the back of the spoon towards you, 
from right to left, the way you unscrew a screw, 
which is less fatiguing, and not so likely to splash. 
This is one of the good habits I referred to. Some 
things must always be stirred in one direction, and if it 
has become a habit, you will be in no danger of 
making a mistake. When you have added half your 
milk, beat the mixture thoroughly mVta. V\i^ \>w& <& 



the spoon. Batter is the old Saxon word to beat, and 
batter puddings must be well beaten. If you try to 
mix all the flour with the two eggs it will be stringy, if 
you add the milk too fast it will be lumpy, and your 
only remedy is to beat it until perfectly smooth ; strain- 
ing out the lumps robs the batter of flour and leaves 
it too thin, This mixture makes boiled or baked batter 
pudding ; fried it makes pancakes, and roasted in a hot 
dripping tin under the meat it is Yorkshire pudding. 
For this the tin must be put under the meat in the 
dripping pan for fifteen minutes, to catch the dripping 
and get hot, then pour in the batter, and set it under 
the meat for half an hour. It must not be more 
than half an inch thick or it would not get done through, 
and must be turned round once so that the opposite side 
comes nearest to the fire. 

The Erench way of roasting is en casserole, or in 
a saucepan. As they have no open fires, the meat, with 
one table-spoon of fat to a lb., is put into a saucepan, 
which it nearly fills, covered and set over a very slow fire . I 
take a sheep's heart as an example, as that will enable 
me to teach you veal stuffing. This is made of one 
table spoonful of suet, one of bread-crumbs, one dessert- 
spoonful of chopped parsley, one tea-spoonful of mixed 
herbs, pepper, salt, and either a little milk dripping or 
egg to bind it. Chop your suet without flour, pick the 
stalks off the parsley, wring it quite dry, shred it 
fine and then chop it, holding the point of your knife 
down on the board with your left hand, and working the 
handle up and down as a lever with your right ; you 
can chop more easily, more quickly, and with less noise 
in this way ; use only the leaves of thyme, lemon, 
and margoram, rub them through a strainer if dried, if 
green chop them as you do parsley. Hub the crumbs 
of stale bread through a wire sieve, season your stuff- 
ing rather highly, then mix all the ingredients with 
the egg or milk. You must wash heart (and rabbit) before 
roasting (these are exceptions to W\& T\&sSy>\». <ss&s5t^> 
remove the clotted blood : but wira ft ^erte^ ^ -^^ 



a 

exit off the loose pieces at the top, leaving only just 
enough to cover the cavities which are to be filled 
with stuffing. You can make them into one by dividing 
the partition, fill them and draw the top together over 
the stuffiing with needle and twine. As nothing will 
brown that is wet, dredge over a little flour, and then 
wipe it off to be sure that it is thoroughly dry. A 
heart being very lean needs 2 oz. of dripping, which is 
put into a saucepan to get hot, then lay in the heart, 
set it over a slow fire, and baste it frequently, turning 
it over so that it cooks equally. Any joint can be done 
in this way, proportioning the time, dripping, and 
saucepan, to the size of the. joint. The time is the same 
as for roasting in front of the fire. A sheep's heart 
takes three-quarters of an hour, a calf's requires twice 
as much stutfing and time, a bullock's heart four times 
as much. The flesh of heart is close, but very nourishing 
if well prepared. It cools very quickly ; to remedy 
this, stew it for a quarter of an hour in the gravy after 
it is roasted. The gravy, such as I have shown you, 
should be thickened for heart, veal, and poultry. One 
dessert-spoonful of flour must be smoothly mixed with 
a little cold water, then poured into the boiling gravy, 
and stirred while it boils ten minutes to cook the flour. 
For colouring, many people push an iron spoon with some 
moist sugar between the bars of the kitchen grate, this 
wastes the sugar, and spoils the spoon. The proper way is to 
prepare caramel, or "black jack" as it is called; put one 
tea-spoonful of cold water into a little saucepan, with one 
oz. of loaf sugar, set it over the fire, let it burn till it 
is dark brown, then pour in half a gill of cold water, 
boil it until the burnt sugar is dissolved, strain it, and 
you will have a liquid which can be kept in a bottle 
and used to colour gravies. Pour the dripping from 
the heart, strain half-a-pint of gravy over it, and let 
it simmer gently a quarter of an hour ; take out the 
string and serve on a hot dish with the gravy over it. 
When yon take up a joint, pour all the dripping out of 
the pan, pour into it the gravy from. t\ie\>oii^ > ^fix^ft 



over a little salt, stir it over the fire, till the brown 
droppings are washed off, then pour it round the joint, 
never over it, or it will destroy ifoe crispness. 

Now I will teach you to make Norfolk dumplings. 
Where people make their own bread, these are simply 
pieces of dough formed into round balls the size of a 
hen's egg and thrown into boiling water ; or they may 
be made of flour, baking powder, and water; half a lb. of 
flour makes four. Put it into a basin with half a tea- 
spoon of baking powder, and mix with a quarter of a 
pint of cold water. Make it into four balls without a 
crack in them. This is done by putting the ball into 
the palm of your left hand and working it round and 
round with the right, pressing all the cracks to the top 
with your thumb. Throw them into boiling water, stir 
once to keep them from sticking, let them boil twenty 
minutes with the lid on, take them up with a slice or 
wire spoon, and serve quickly. I shall conclude by 
telling you the three virtues of a good cook; cleanliness, 
economy, and punctuality, of which cleanliness is the 
most important. 



SECOND LESSON. 



WHAT TO DO WITH THE COLD MEA.T. 

There are numerous ways of warming up cold meat. 
I shall only illustrate six of them, giving you tho 
general rules, and directing your attention to those 
points which require the greatest caution. Firstly, a 
hash, which is so generally ill-made, that it has passed 
into a proverb, " to make a hash of it " beix\% «^&r>\^- 
mous with failure. Take from ^otel \o\x& *^a >*«&» 
slices for a hash, then cat every *cr«$ <& \&»&> "fcws^ 



10 

the bone ; the tiniest pieces will come in for dishes 
where mince is used. Next make gravy of the bones, 
with a piece of carrot and turnip, a small onion, bunch 
of herbs, pepper and salt, in three-quarters of a pint of 
water; simmer it gently with the lid on, until a 
quarter of an hour before serving. Mix upon a plate 
one table-spoonful of flour, one tea-spoonful of salt, one 
salt-spoonful of pepper, and lay each slice of meat in 
this seasoning, so that both sides are well covered, and 
then place them separately on a plate. The flour covers 
the meat with a thin coating, which keeps the juice in, 
and thickens the gravy sufficiently. Por serving the 
hash, strain the gravy, return it to the saucepan (put 
the bones in the stockpot), lay in your slices of meat, 
and keep it close to the Are, till it just comes to 
boiling point, to cook the flour, but on no account 
let it continue boiling, or your meat will be tough. 
People often wonder why a tender leg of mutton 
makes a tough hash, simply because it has been 
allowed to boil. Add one table-spoonful of ketchup or 
Harvey's sauce, and in serving lay the slices neatly on 
a dish, pour the gravy over, and decorate it with 
triangles of bread, not toasted, but fried in boiling 
fat. 

I shall next teach you to make a Shepherd's Pie of 
slices of cold meat and cold potatoes. This is an illus- 
tration of the virtue of economy, which consists not 
only in not wasting, but in so preparing and combining 
what you have as to get the greatest good out of every- 
thing. Potatoes alone are not nourishing, they belong 
to the force-producers, or heat-giving foods. Meat is 
a flesh-former. To have a perfect diet we require a 
due proportion of each, which, according to Church, is 
1| flosh-formers to 5| force -producers. And because 
l>otatoe8 are deficient in fat, we take fatter slices of 
meat than those used in the hash. Pill up a pie 
dish, seasoning each layer, and, if liked, sprinkling some 
mixed herbs over. Some people add chopped onion, 
but it. is too strong in flavour. ¥i& t"ha \o& fosta Wo- 



11 

thirds full of water or gravy. Mash one lb. of boiled 
potatoes very smoothly with a fork, or, better still, rub 
them through a wire sieve with the back of a wooden 
spoon. Put one table-spoonful of milk and half oz. of 
butter into a saucepan, and when hot pour it over the 
potatoes, stirring them quite smooth. Always boil the 
milk and butter for mashed potatoes ; they do not taste 
the same if mixed in cold. Make of it a smooth crust 
over the pie ; if you have an egg broken, brush the top 
over to make it shine. Then put it in the oven for 
about half an hour to get hot through and to brown ; 
the ingredients are already cooked. There is another 
way of making potato crust. Take equal quantities of 
flour and mashed potatoes, knead into a dough, and 
roll it out on the board like ordinary pastry ; but this 
is not so light as the other, unless you add some 
shortening, such as fat or dripping. 

I am now going to show you plain pastry, and use it for 
Patties and Goblet Pie. This is not a pastry lesson ; I 
shall therefore only teach you the simplest short crust. 
Three-quarters lb. flour and quarter lb. of the fat I taught 
you to clarify last lesson. One-third as much fat as 
flour makes a good plain crust with three-quarters tea- 
spoonful of baking powder, and a gill and a half of cold 
water. Some people object to baking powder, saying 
only bad cooks use it who cannot make light pastry with- 
out. Baking powder makes the pastry more digestible, 
and it also saves the butter or fat by making it light 
with a smaller proportion. That is why we recommend 
its use. Put the flour into a clean, dry basin, break up 
the dripping, and rub it in lightly. If it is hard, flake 
it into very thin slices before rubbing. Never warm 
your dripping ; one secret of good pastry making is to 
mix the fat in cold. Don't rub with the palms of your 
hands, that would make it hot and heavy, but between 
the tips of the fingers, till it looks like fine sifted 
bread crumbs ; then add the water by degrees. Ita 
not make it too limp. 

For a Goblet Pie, we taika ec^sk TasawKSxa^ "**» 



12 

weight, of six ingredients, finely minced meat, finely 
chopped suet, plums stoned and chopped, currants 
rubbed clean, chopped apples, and moist sugar. You 
will find it easier to chop the plums and apples at the same 
time. Then mix them all together. It is a sort of roughly 
made mincemeat (without spirits, spice, or peel), and 
takes its name from the old recipe, " a goblet full of 
each." Pack this mixture in a pie dish, then take a third 
of the crust, flour your rolling-pin, board, and your hands, 
and roll it a little larger than the pie-dish, and a third of 
an inch in thickness, cut from the outside a strip one 
inch wide, wet the edge of the pie-dish, lay this on, 
letting it project a little beyond the edge, take up 
the crust and cover the pie with it, pressing the 
edges together that they may adhere. Take up the 
pie-dish in your left hand, dip a knife in flour and 
trim the edges round, cutting from you, keeping the 
knife slanted outwards, because the crust will shrink 
in baking, and would leave the edge of the dish bare. 
Ornament the edge, sprinkle some cold water and loaf- 
sugar dust on the top, put it in the hottest part of the 
oven first, then in a cooler part for half an hour 
altogether. 

Patties are little meat pies baked in patty-pans, greased 
with clarified fat, not butter, which would make the 
pies stick. The crust should be rolled a quarter of an 
inch thick, and pieces cut from it, with a clean saucepan 
lid, half an inch larger than the patty-pans. We cut out 
all the tops first, then put together the cuttings, roll 
them out again, and cut the bottoms. The pastry is never 
so light when rolled the second time, therefore we use 
it for the bottom crust. Line each tin with crust, and 
fill them with finely minced cold meat, seasoned 
with pepper, salt, and minced herbs. If the patties are 
of veal, some ham or bacon is an improvement. Wet the 
edge of the bottom crusts, put on the covers, and press 
lightly just inside the edge, to be sure they are joined. Some 
people cover their patties with a large ^ieca o£ crusty 
then trim off the edge after, aa I taught ^ovjl \n %<$&&N 



13 

pie, but it is not nearly so neat, nor the pastry so light. 
Put them on a baking sheet in the hottest part of the 
oven for a quarter of an hour, then put them in a 
cooler part for another, and five minutes before they 
are done, brush them over with a little egg. Patties 
are best made of cooked meat ; fresh meat requires more 
cooking than the crust. 

I shall next teach you to curry cold meat. The 
flavour of curry powder is so strong that it overpowers 
every other, and when everyone is tired of cold meat 
this is a useful way of warming it. This is the plainest 
and simplest; in the Third High Class Lesson you 
will find a more elaborate curry. Por one lb. of meat 
we want half-a-pint of stock or water, one dessert-spoon- 
ful of curry powder, one table-spoonful of flour, one 
small apple and onicn, and two ozs. of dripping and salt. 
Put the dripping into a saucepan, and when a faint 
blue smoke arises from it put in the onion to fry. In 
order that it may cook to pulp cut it from the crown to 
the root in thin slices — it always preserves its form if 
cut across — and then mince it. In a really good curry 
the gravy is thickened with the pulp of onion and 
apple, and no pieces should be perceptible, as they 
generally are in an English curry. When the onion 
has fried brown put in the apple, also minced ; if 
apples are out of season, green gooseberries will do as 
well. While the apples are frizzling with the onions 
mix the curry powder, flour, and water in a basin 
with an iron spoon- (curry discolours and flavours the 
wooden spoons), pour the mixture into the saucepan, 
stir till it boils, then lay in the pieces of meat, and 
keep the saucepan by the side of the fire for the meat 
to warm and become flavoured with curry powder 
while you boil the rice ; on no account let it boil. Few 
people succeed in boiling rice well ; for a curry every 
grain should be distinct, and yet thoroughly cooked. 
The first mistake is using too little water. A. ^&11qkn^ 
water is not too much for a \isiM ^a% c>\ t\r«u "^^ 
aecond mistake is using Carolina; T£*fcofc\& 'Saa ^w^w* 



14 

rice for a curry. Carolina is a round grain with ob- 
tuse ends, Patna is long and slender with pointed ends. 
The third mistake is not to have the water hot enough 
when the rice is. put in. It must be hotter than boil- 
ing ; this is only to be accomplished by putting in two 
table-spoonfuls of salt, which raises the temperature to 
218° Faht. Wash the rice well, then throw it into the 
rapidly boiling water, and let it boil very fast for 
exactly thirteen minutes, then throw into the saucepan 
a quart of cold water to wash off the loose starch, 
strain it through a sieve or colander, which must then 
be stood in front of the fire, or in a cool oven, till the 
rice is dry. Stir it occasionally, to keep the grains 
separate, with a fork, not a spoon, and do not cover 
the colander — that would keep in the steam and pre- 
vent its drying. Some people strain the rice, take it 
to the tap and pour on cold water ; this cools the rice 
very much, and it takes a long time to dry and get hot 
again. The water in which the rice has been boiled 
contains sufficient starch to stiffen muslin blinds or aprons. 
For serving the curry we put the meat in the centre of 
a dish, shake the rice from the colander round the 
edge, and pour the sauce over the meat. 

The last recipe I shall give in this lesson is for 
Rissoles. The ingredients are very like those of veal 
stuffing, and prepared in the same way. You want 
two table-spoonfuls, of minced meat, the same of suet, 
the same of bread crumbs, one of parsley, one desert- 
spoonful of herbs, pepper, salt, and an egg. Put your 
ingredients in a basin, except the egg^ which must be 
slightly beaten in a cup, then pour half of it into the 
mixture, and press it firmly together with the hand ; 
make them as dry as possible, flour your board and 
hands, divide it into six portions, roll them into balls, 
dip each in the remaining egg, then roll them in two 
table-spoonfuls of crumbs, spread on a sheet of paper ; 
and, lastly, roll them round very gently on a clean part 
of the board to make the crumbs fttkk see-wi^ly. Have 
a Jb. and a half, or two lbs., oi <&&n&& itfe m *. 



15 

saucepan on the fire, and put the rissoles into the fat, 
when you see a film of blue smoke over it ; if sooner, 
they will spoil. Drop them in very gently, let them be in 
three minutes, take them out with a wire spoon or slice, 
drain them on kitchen paper, and serve them on a dish 
paper or cloth. They should not be darker than golden 
brown. 

You may ask, Why is it better to warm up cold 
meat ? Because it is more nourishing. You require to 
eat more cold meat to do you as much good, for a little 
of it is spent in reproducing the warmth in your 
stomach, which its entrance has chilled away. That is 
why people take hot drinks in a morning. The normal 
temperature of the body is 98° Faht., but it cools in our 
sleep, and if for our first meal we took everything cold 
we should be losing half our breakfast, wasting it, in 
fact, for it would be spent in restoring the heat we had 
lost in the night, and which could have been just a9 
well brought back by a draught of hot tea or coffee, 
and the food would have gone to make flesh and muscle, 
and repair the daily waste of tissue. 



THIRD LESSON. 



BOILING MEAT, TRIPE, VEGETABLES. 

Ix this lesson much that I said in the first will 
recur to your minds. The principles are the same, 
though they may differ in their application, for our object 
is the same (to cook the meat so as to retain all the 
red juice, and make the other components more diges- 
tible), and the rules are nearly identical m ^bsxAs&sst. 
Yon must learn by rule in. tne &c«fc Vasfctt&w^^as&BS* 
it in cooking, art, music, or ariyt\mi^ &»fe« 'Yissiv^^Bs 8 *- 



16 

you have mastered rules and principles, comes the 
apparent licence which is born of the knowledge and 
power gained by experience. 

The rules for boiling are three. 1st. Plunge your 
meat into boiling water sufficient to cover it. This is 
to harden the surface and keep in the juice. 2nd. 
Keep it simmering gently, not boiling afterwards. 
This is to prevent the albumen, fibrine, and gelatine 
from hardening. 3rd. Eemove the scum as it rises. 
Scum is a little of the albumen and a great deal of 
refuse, and if not removed, settles and adheres to the 
meat, looking very unsightly. Salted meat is put into 
tepid water to draw the salt out. Unfortunately, in 
drawing out the salt we draw out the red juice too, so 
that it is never so nourishing as fresh meat. The time 
for boiling is exactly the same as for roasting ; the 
preparation is the same. Joints must be wiped, not 
washed, weighed, jointed, and secured into shape with 
string, not skewers. Boiled meats are not generally 
stuffed ; the gravy (which is a little of the liquor in 
which they are boiled) and the sauces are always 
poured over them, while the sauces for roast meat are 
served in a tureen. Always put your joint in the 
saucepan that side downwards which is coming upper- 
most to table. Keep the lid on. Boiling is the sim- 
plest way of cooking food, yet the one in which fewest 
people succeed. It is no trouble, requires little fire, 
few utensils, and yet it is the commonest thing possible 
to find it almost uneatable. The secret of success is to 
keep the pot simmering, hot boiling ; this is, of course, 
more easily done on a gas fire or kitchener than on an 
open grate. With an open grate the best plan is to 
make up a good fire at the beginning, and to keep the 
pot over the oven or the boiler, where the heat is more 
regular than over the fire itself, and to look at it care- 
fully from time to time to see that it does not stop 
cooking altogether. Properly boiled meat is easier of 
ingestion than roast, though it does not suit all consti- 
tutions nor all states of healtih. Ou& <&\& &&sNsasfc 



17 

in the effect of boiling upon meat as compared, with 
roasting is upon the gelatine, which it thoroughly 
softens, and that is why in dividing a leg of mutton it 
is better to roast the top half and boil the knuckle, 
which contains most gelatine. In Captain Warren's 
cooking pot the meat cooked never really boils — the 
heat in the inner vessel never reaches 212°, which is 
boiling point. 

If we boil a piece of brisket of beef, we allow half 
an hour to a lb., and half an hour over, as it is par- 
ticularly hard, though tender and mellow when pro- 
perly dressed. It is very fat, but in the long-continued 
cooking so much of the oily part of the fat is drawn 
out that it is not too rich. It must be well tied up 
with string, or you will find on taking it up that the 
meat has drawn over to one side, leaving the bones 
bare. Let it boil very gently. If you intend to serve 
it cold as spiced beef, tie up mace, allspice, cloves, and 
peppercorns in muslin to boil with it; pull out the 
bones while hot, and press the meat between two 
boards with a weight on the top till next day. Eeduce 
the liquor it was cooked in, by boiling it with the lid 
off, until only two table-spoonfuls of glaze remain, of the 
colour and consistence of treacle, brush this over the 
meat. The brisket may be sent to table as a hot joint, 
and the remains pressed and glazed as described. It is 
very good cooked without the spices, which to some 
people are objectionable. 

The root vegetables served with boiled meat should 
be cooked in the same saucepan ; the flavour of both is 
improved. In preparing these vegetables wash them 
clean, scrape the carrot from the crown to the point, 
peel the parsnip thinly, and the turnip thickly, to get 
below the woody fibre which lies about one-eighth of an 
inch under the outer skin. The onion is simply peeled. All 
vegetables when prepared should lie in water till cooked. 
There are certain rules about boiling them. ML ^ 
into boiling water except potato^ saA^fefca^ fc^-sxa 
boiled with salt in thewateTexc^t^s*^^^^^ 



18 

which would slip out of their skins if so treated. The peas 
are boiled with sugar in the water, beans with a small 
piece of fat. All root vegetables boil slowly, with tho 
lid on ; all green vegetables fast, with the lid off. All 
vegetables should have plenty of water ; the proportion 
of salt is one heaped table-spoonful to half-a-galloii. 
The carrots will take an hour, so will the parsnips, un- 
less frosted, when they cook in three quarters ; tho 
onions take three quarters of an hour, the turnips 
half an hour. Parsnips and turnips are occasionally 
mashed ; after being well drained, they are rubbed 
through a wire sieve with the back of a wooden spoon, 
and a small piece of butter, pepper, and salt is added. 

To boil pickled pork we allow twenty minutes to the 
lb. and twenty over. Salted meat, I have told you, is 
not so nourishing as fresh ; the salt has drawn out the 
animal juices of the meat, and continuous feeding on it 
produces scurvy, which, however, can be counteracted 
by eating vegetables containing potash. An hour 
and a half will boil a piece of streaky pork of any 
size, because it is of the same thickness, only wider and 
longer. Scrape the skin, then put it into a saucepan of 
tepid water, skin downwards, and let it simmer very 
gently. Hams should be soaked all night before boil- 
ing, and be well scraped. The large hams at the cook- 
shops are boiled in a copper ; when done, the fire is 
drawn out, and the hams are allowed to cool in the liquor 
in which they have been cooked. It makes them very 
mellow, but they will not keep so long as if taken out 
of the water directly they are done. Ham or bacon 
has the skin removed, and brown crumbs sprinkled 
over. 

I am now going to teach you how to dress tripe, 
which is the inner lining of the stomach of the ox and 
cow. There are five sorts, all parts of the same, known 
as blanket or double, honeycomb, monks hood, reed, 
and another only eaten in Scotland. The two first are 
most esteemed, the others are inferior in price and quality, 
thelast is not cleaned in England, being 0X&3 aoid. a& do^a' 



19 

meat. Tripe is exceedingly nourishing and suitable for 
invalids, being as easy of digestion as boiled chicken. It 
is very cheap, the best being 7d. a lb. in London. The 
tripe most often called blanket from its rough appearance, 
but sometimes known as " double tripe " from its being 
folded with fat between, is the dearest; honeycomb, 
so called from its cellular appearance, is a little cheaper, 
and by some preferred to the blanket. Tripe 
when taken from the animal has to be thoroughly 
cleansed, then boiled from sixteen to eighteen hours 
, before it is ready for sale. In the long boiling a large 
quantity of fat is drawn out which tripe dressers sell at 
7d. a lb. It is useful for frying, and making cakes and 
pastry, having no flavour of meat. Tripe can be cooked 
in many ways. I am going to dress it with onions, and 
shall require one lb. of tripe, four onions, half a pint of 
milk, half-oz. of butter, half-oz. of flour, pepper, and 
salt. First blanch the tripe with the onions, cooking 
both till tender. The onions boil more quickly if cut 
across at the root. Drain them in a colander, and chop 
them, and cut the tripe into squares of about two 
inches. Put the flour, pepper, and Bait into a basin, 
and mix the milk in by degrees. Melt the butter in 
the saucepan, pour into it the thickened milk, stir till 
it boils, or it will stick to the bottom and burn ; then 
lay in the tripe and onions, let it simmer by the side of 
the fire ten minutes, and then serve. Tripe may be 
curried by the recipe given in the last lesson, or fried 
in batter, as in Lesson 5, always remembering that it 
must first be cooked in water till tender. 

I shall now show you how to dress cow-heel. This 
comes from the tripe shop ; at the butcher's it is known 
as ox-foot, having been simply scalded to take off the 
hair. When you buy them in this condition they cost 
Is., and must be boiled sixteen or eighteen hours to 
make them tender. This is done for you at the tripe 
dressers, who, getting the gelatine and neat's. t<*& <s&. 
from them in the boiling, can then %d&. \kfcm *& «s*i« 
heel for 7d. They are Tisef\&, Iot yS&s itao^ Vst ^*s$* 



20 

and for stews, as I shall show you next lesson. I am now 
going to make milk jelly from it. Cut half a cow-heel 
into pieces, and put it in a saucepan or Nottingham jar 
with one pint of milk, having previously greased the 
bottom with a little butter, to prevent the milk burn- 
ing. Let it cook very gently till the meat will slip off 
the bones (about four hours), then strain it off, sweeten 
it, flavour with a little essence of lemon or vanilla, and 
pour into a mould wetted with cold water. It will be 
a firm jelly when cold, far more nourishing than blanc- 
mange, which is stiffened with cornflower, &c. It is 
equally nice to eat hot. The pieces of meat can be 
served with onion sauce, parsley and butter, or matri- 
mony sauce. 

I shall next teach you to boil a rabbit. If you have 
to paunch and skin it, make a slit down the body and 
remove the intestines and the liver from the chest, 
behind a skin called the diaphragm are the lungs and 
heart, which also remove; then begin on one side, loosen- 
ing the skin from the flesh towards the hind leg, turn 
the skin off it inside out, the way you turn the fingers 
of a tight glove, and do the same with the other, chop- 
ping off the first joint of each leg : draw the skin off 
the body carefully to the shoulders ; turn the skin off 
the fore legs, as you did the hind, chopping them off 
also at the first joint ; cut the ears off with the skin, 
and peel it away carefully at the nose ; take out the 
eyes with the point of a knife, and wash the rabbit, 
cleaning it with salt wherever there is blood settled, 
then dry it. There are two ways of trussing, London 
and country. Use needles and string, not skewers. 
Put your rabbit on the board, pull the hind legs as far 
forward, and the front legs as far back as you can ; put 
your needle through the end of one hind leg and the end 
of one fore leg, then through the body of the rabbit 
through the other front leg and hind leg ; turn the 
rabbit's head round, looking back, and put the needle 
through its jaws ; tie the en&B oi t\ie *trin£ tightly. 
This is country trussing ; £ox ine liWi&oTi ^w«s *1«^ *sofc. 



21 

the hind legs nearly off the rabbit on either side of the 
tail, as far as to the joint, so that they lie flat on the 
board, then truss it the same as before, keeping it 
quite flat. A small rabbit takes half-an-hour ; a large 
one, three-quarters ; a large Ostend, an hour. These 
last are, however, more suited for stewing. It may be 
boiled with the pork, which is generally eaten with it, 
and served with parsley and butter sauce. 

First, I teach you to make good melted butter, for it 
is the foundation of most English sauces. Talleyrand 
said we had thirteen religions, but only one sauce. 
Pew people make really good melted butter; it is either 
oily, pasty, or lumpy. You need twice as much butter 
as flour ; one oz. of butter and a heaped dessert- 
spoonful of flour for half a pint. Some people 
think enough butter to keep it from hardening 
and sticking is sufficient ; but that makes paste, 
not melted butter. Melt the butter in a sauce- 
pan, then stir into it the flour quite smoothly till it 
looks like honey ; pour in half a pint of cold water, stir it 
over the fire till it boils, and it is done. There is no 
fear of its being lumpy or oily ; putting the flour into 
the hot butter prevents that, and it also cooks the flour. 
Never use milk for melted butter, and if it is to eat 
with meat or fish, use the water in which that has been 
boiled, instead of fresh ; but you must add it by degrees 
as it is hot, carefully stirring it smooth after each addi- 
tion before adding more, or it will be lumpy. This can 
be converted into parsley and butter, fennel sauce, 
caper sauce, &c, by the addition of a dessert-spoonful 
of chopped parsley, fennel, or capers. Chop the parsley 
very finely, and add it the last moment before serving ; 
it does not require cooking, which only spoils the 
colour. In serving the rabbit, draw out the trussing 
string and cover it with the sauce. The liquor in 
which meat has been boiled should be saved for making 
soups and stews. 

I shall teach yon to boil a potato. K^^orte^^^^ 
cook equally well in the same Nvay, &om<e> ^fiik ***«**-» ] 



22 

others will bake best. It is certain that potatoes of 
unequal size will not boil together, small ones go to 
pieces before the larger ones are done. Having selected 
your potatoes, the first thing is to scrub them clean in 
water before peeling. It is most economical to cook 
them in their skins, for the best part of the potato 
lies on the outside ; as I told you, they are not 
nourishing, they supply warmth and force as they con- 
tain starch, but they make no flesh. Seventy-five per 
cent is water, and the remainder starch and mineral 
matter. One lb. of bread is always cheaper than two 
lbs. of potatoes, even if it costs more, because it contains 
all that is absolutely necessary for food and can be 
subsisted upon alone, whereas potatoes must have 
something of a flesh forming nature added to them. 
Potatoes should be peeled as thinly as possible, the eyes 
and specks removed, and then be laid in cold water till 
they are cooked. It is a mistake to boil them in a 
small quantity of water, the chief thing to bear in mind 
is that they must cook slowly ; the more cold water they 
are in the more slowly they will cook. Put in with 
them the usual proportion of salt, and when they have 
boiled gently twenty minutes try them with a 
cooking needle; if tender, pour off all the water carefully, 
holding the lid against the top of the saucepan to keep 
in the potatoes, replace the lid, stand the saucepan near 
the fire, but not over it, to finish the cooking in their 
own steam. In five minutes remove the lid to let 
them dry. They should be like balls of flour. New 
potatoes are prepared and cooked differently. You want 
to keep them perfectly entire without a crack, put 
them into boiling water and watch them carefully so 
that they do not over-cook. When they are first taken 
out of the ground the skin is very easily removed by 
rubbing with a coarse flannel, after they have been 
soaked in cold water. In large establishments where 
they are used in great quantities they are put in a pail 
and whisked round with a biich \jiocm, ot &!&£&. \& *» 
Back with salt, the friction oi -whitii rvfoa oS. ^ ^m. 



23 

They keep a better colour if boiled without the skin, 
but they are more likely to crack. You should nevei 
actually peel new potatoes when they are too old for 
the skin to rub off; soak and scrape them. Steaming is 
a very simple way of cooking potatoes ; put them in a 
vessel called a steamer with holes in the bottom, 
which fits tightly over a saucepan of boiling water, and 
let them remain till tender. For baking you should 
choose large potatoes, scrub them clean, wipe them dry, 
and bake them in a modern oven three quarters of an 
hour. They cook better parboiled before baking. 
This is the plan adopted by vendors of baked potatoes. 
Frying, and other ways of preparing them you will 
have in future lessons. 

I must now teach you to boil green vegetables. 
In the general rules you were told they must boil fast 
in a large quantity of water with the lid off. This is 
to keep the colour, and if you attend to these rules 
your greens if fresh will be of a good colour without 
the use of soda, which 'spoils the flavour and is unwhole- 
some. Wash greens in salt and water, and look carefully 
behind the leaves for insects, &c, cut cabbages in half 
and tie them together again with string ; pick kale from 
its stalks, which take longer than the leaves to cook, 
leave cauliflowers in salt and water an hour to draw out 
caterpillars ; put them all into boiling water, keep them 
frequently stirred down, and boil till tender. The time 
they take depends more on the age than the size ; the 
fibre in the young plants takes less time to soften. 
Kale, Brussels sprouts, and young greens take about 
fifteen minutes, cabbage and savoys from twenty to 
forty minutes. Try if they are tender with a needle, 
drain all the water from them, and press them very 
dry in a colander : cut them across for convenience in 
serving. Brussels sprouts, which must not be pressed 
dry, are returned to the saucepan, with a small piece 
of butter, and shaken over the foe to w^ 1 ^ ^^^ 
moisture. 80 are green peas a.Tui\ie«»&. Qr»e^^***L 
are the exception to the rule oi \kK&h& *NkV ^^ 



24 

putting salt in the water ; put a little sugar in and 
boil them gently, or they slip out of their skins. Prench 
beans are cut in straight and fine slices ; scarlet runners 
diagonally and in broad slices, and boiled as fast as 
possible from ten to fifteen minutes. Colcannon is 
made of an equal quantity of cold potato and kale 
rubbed through a wire sieve together, mix them with 
one oz. of butter and two table-spoonfuls of milk which 
have been warmed together, and serve in a mound. 
Spanish onions can be cooked in many ways, they take a 
long time, two or three hours, and are very wholesome 
and nourishing. They may be plainly boiled, or boiled 
in milk and served with a little butter and pepper, or 
stewed in their own juice in a saucepan, with an oz. of 
butter, pepper, and salt, by the side of a fire in a 
moderate heat for three or four hours. Haricot beans 
are a very nourishing vegetable, the pulse of peas and 
beans contains more flesh-forming matter than meat 
itself. They should be soaked overnight in cold water 
to swell, and then boiled very gently for two and a half 
hours with a little fat in the water to prevent the skins 
cracking. As they are flesh-forming food they should 
be eaten with force producers — beans and bacon, ta 
well as bread and butter, liver and bacon, are com- 
binations to which instinct arid custom have guided us, 
but which, nevertheless, are founded on truly correct 
principles. When haricots are boiled tender, drain off 
the water, put in half-oz. of butter, a dessert-spoonful 
of chopped parsley, pepper, and salt, shake them over 
the fire for a minute or two, and then turn them into a 
vegetable dish. 



FOURTH LESSON. 



SOUPS AND STEWS. 



Stewing, which I am teaching you in t\vi% Iqbboil, is 
the most economical way o£ codkiii^ — tfrc$&, «ta». 



25 

may be classed with it, for they can be made of any- 
thing and everything that is eatable; nay, even of 
bones. The general rules for soup-making are three : 
1st, Allow to every lb. of meat one pint of water and 
half an ounce of thickening, and add one pint extra. 
2. Add the vegetables after it has boiled and been 
skimmed. 3. Boil gently and skim frequently. In 
boiling meat for soup, our object is the reverse of that 
in boiling it for eating. Then we wanted to keep the 
goodness in ; now to get it out, therefore, we put it in 
cold water. 

I shall begin with bone soup. For this put two lbs. 
of bones, cooked or uncooked, in a saucepan, and cover 
them with three pints of cold water ; put it on the fire 
to come slowly to the boil, while you are preparing the 
vegetables. Take one carrot, one onion, half a parsnip, 
half a turnip, bunch of herbs, twelve peppercorns, six 
alspice berries, and a blade of mace ; clean the vegeta- 
bles, and cut them in four, lengthways. When the soup 
begins to simmer, put in one dessert-spoonful of salt, 
skim it well, and add the vegetables and spices, then 
draw it one side to simmer gently for two hours ; after 
which strain and thicken it, or cut up the vegetables 
and serve them in it. Sago, rice, tapioca, flour, oat- 
meal, &c, may be used for thickening, or boiled 
maccaroni cut into short pieces may be put into it. If 
you have no scales and weights, it is useful to know 
that a heaped table-spoonful is one oz., a dessert-spoon- 
ful half an oz., and a tea-spoonful quarter of an oz. These 
thickenings do not all take the same time to cook: rice, 
tapioca, and sago want from a quarter to half an hour ; 
flour, oatmeal, and semolina, ten minutes. A little caramel 
improves the colour if this soup is made from uncooked 
bones. It is a very inexpensive and yet nourishing dish, 
for soups are easier of digestion than any other 
form of food. As three parts of the human frame is 
water, which wastes more quickly tk^v^s^Ooos^^^ 
requiring to be constantly xen^weti, ^a «c&£rcx& <&\vss^ 
taken in soups ia not too great-, aitflmV^*^^^^ 8 



26 

mineral properties useful for purifying the blood, which 
are lost when vegetables are served without the water in 
which they have been cooked. If you do not want 
soup, boil the bones all day for stock. A good cook 
should never be without a stock pot on the hob, to turn 
to account her bones and pieces. I must warn you 
against two things : 1st, Don't continue boiling the 
same bones and vegetables day after day, till you have 
evaporated all the flavour, and your stock is taste- 
less ; one whole day is sufficient, then strain off the 
stock, thoroughly clean your pot, dry it in the air, and 
start with fresh water. The bones may go in a second day, 
they still contain gelatine, if nothing else, but the 
vegetables should not. 2nd, Don't make the stock-pot a 
" culinary dust-bin," into which everything is thrown ; 
nothing must be added unless some goodness can be ex- 
tracted ff om it. If you have no stock, the water in which 
meat or vegetables have been boiled is better than 
water as a foundation for soup. Soups and stock should 
be kept in uncovered shallow vessels, and never allowed 
to cool in the saucepan in which they are made. 
Vegetable soup should not be kept after the day it is 
made, particularly in hot weather. 

Shin of beef soup is made from the shin or leg of 
beef ; four lbs. of meat, including bone, two carrots, 
two onions or leeks (if leeks are used, put the white 
part only in your soup), one turnip, half head of celery, 
bunch of herbs, twenty-four peppercorns, twelve allspice 
berries, and five pints of cold water. Cut the meat 
into pieces small enough to eat with a spoon, and the 
vegetables into dice, then proceed to make the soup by 
the rules I have given you. If you like your soup 
dark, fry the meat in one oz. of dripping. If the 
butcher sends some bone, remove the marrow, which 
would make the soup greasy. Let it simmer gently 
four hours, then take out the onion and bunch of herbs, 
and by serving meat and vegetables in it, you will 
make a more substantial meal \taan wrog* %«Mst«Sc3 
afford 



27 

I shall next teach you to prepare Ox tail Soup. 
Until the Huguenots came to England at the revocation 
of the Edict of Nantes, the tails, heads, and feet of the 
bullocks were sent in the skins to the tanner as not 
worth the trouble of skinning. The poor French refugees, 
having lost all they possessed and often distressed for 
food, used to buy or beg these, and make of them many 
of the nourishing and tasty dishes we now enjoy, a la 
mode beef, oxtail soup, stewed oxtails, ox palates, calf s 
foot jelly, &c. The ox tail is so full of flavour in 
itself, it requires no vegetables but an onion and a 
bunch of herbs, pepper, salt, one oz. flour, one dessert- 
spoonful of ketchup. Cut the tail through every joint 
with a sharp knife, chop the largest joint in two length- 
wise, roll each joint in the seasoning made of flour, 
pepper, and salt, and fry them till brown in two oz. of 
dripping, afterwards fry the onion cut in rings. If you 
wish your soup clear, do not roll the meat in flour 
before frying. Then put your ingredients in a saucepan, 
or stone jar (called a Nottingham jar), with four pints 
of water, and let it simmer very gently on the hob or 
in the oven four hours. Before serving skim it care- 
fully, add the ketchup, lay the meat in a tureen, and 
strain the soup over. You will learn vegetable soups 
in your high class lesson, No. 2 ; if made of peas, 
lentils, or beans, they are as nourishing as meat itself. 

Stewing is the slowest, most economical, and most 
digestible way of cooking meat. I shall give you three 
examples : a la mode beef, haricot mutton, and ragout 
of rabbit. It is most economical, because very little heat 
is required, and so only a small amount of fuel is used, 
because after it is fairly simmering no more time need 
be spent upon it until the hour of dinner, and because 
by long continued and slow cooking the inferior and 
cheapest meat can be rendered palatable and digestible. 
If roasting is our national mode of cooking, stewing is 
the Erench, which is a rofn£\ei& «rAssftR» ^ "-fcs* 
economy. In saying stewing \a ^fe ^arossfc.*"^-"^?^ 
explained why it is the moafc du£Hft&ftfe m^asA ^ 



28 

cooking meat, for I hope you understand now that the 
secret of good oooking is very gentle heat sustained for 
a sufficient period. Nottingham jars are well adapted 
for stewing, as they stand on the hob, in the oven, or 
even on the hearth, where there is often heat enough 
to cook a stew. The rules to be observed are: 1st, Allow 
three quarters of a pint of water to every lb. of meat, 
and one oz. of thickening to each pint; 2nd, Add the 
vegetables when cold or when nearest boiling point, and 
after skimming; 3rd, Never allow it to boil, but only 
simmer gently. From 165° to 185° is sufficient for 
your purpose. 

A la mode beef is made of ox-cheek and cow-heel. To 
two lbs. of the beef take one lb. of co wheel, four car- 
rots, two onions, two ozs. of dripping. Cut the beef 
into squares of an inch, roll them in flour, salt and 
pepper, and fry them in the dripping. Cow-heel is too 
gelatinous to fry, it would only burn. Cut the onion 
in rings, and fry it next ; put the meat into a jar, then 
add the vegetables cut in slices, and the cow-heel; pour 
over two and a quarter pints of cold water, set it in 
the oven or over a very slow fire for ' four hours ; the 
gelatine in the cow-heel will thicken the gravy, and it 
is good eaten either hot or cold. 

I shall teach you next how to make a ragout of 
rabbit. It can be stewed whole, or be cut into joints. 
Skin the rabbit : put the liver and heart in boiling 
water to parboil for ten minutes. They are then to be 
minced, added to some veal stuffing, and put in the body 
of the rabbit, after washing and wiping it very dry. 
You learnt veal stuffing in Lesson I. The addition of 
the heart and liver improves it for rabbits and game. 
Truss a rabbit for stewing, so that it appears to be 
sitting. Draw the hind legs forward, doubled at the 
first joint ; draw the fore legs backward, also doubled. 
Pass the needle through one of the hind legs at the first 
joint, through the fore leg, and then through the body 
k out through the fore leg and fiiBt pint ol \tafc ti&etY&ul 
Ifef. Bring back the needle tnTOUglkt\i&&\io\&terc 



29 

ttie back of the neck (so as to support the head), and 
the other shoulder blade, and tie the string securely. 
After wiping, in order to dry the rabbit very thoroughly, 
dredge it with flour, but do not leave a thick coating 
on it, or it will peel away in stewing, leaving the flesh 
white. Fry the rabbit on both sides and on the back in 
two oz. of dripping or clarified fat, then put it in a 
saucepan with a quarter lb. of rashers of bacon, one 
pint of cold water, an onion with the skin on, a bunch 
of herbs, six peppercorns, and let it simmer gently from 
an hour to an hour and a half, according to its size. 
A very large Ostend rabbit will need one quart of water, 
A quarter of an hour before serving, skim off all the 
fat, make a thickening of one dessert-spoonful of corn 
flour and two of ketchup, pour it into the gravy, and 
stir till it boils. After removing the trussing strings, 
serve your rabbit on a dish with the bacon round, and 
the gravy strained over it. It looks much better if the 
ears are left on, and skinned like those of a hare. 

Haricot mutton, which is my last example of stewing, 
is a very easy recipe to remember and to carry out ; 
one lb. of meat, one carrot, one onion, one turnip, one 
oz. flour, three quarters pint of water, one oz. dripping, 
pepper, and salt. The cheapest parts of mutton, such 
as scrag and breast, will do for this. If neck chops are 
used, it becomes an entree. Cut the meat into neat 
pieces, and fry in the dripping till a rich brown on both 
sides, then fry the onion cut in rings, being careful not 
to let it burn, or it will embitter your haricot. Cut the 
carrot and onion into neat pieces ; if you can get a few 
silver skin or button onions, use them whole ; next mix 
the flour, pepper, and salt smoothly with the cold water, 
The peculiarity of a haricot is that the thickening is 
added at the beginning, not at the end, as in other 
stews. Put it in a saucepan on the fire with the meat 
and vegetables, stir till it boils, simmer it for an hour, 
and dish it up, with the meat laid T*fc«fc3^ waxsS^ ^^ 
dish and the vegetables piled loi^i tel Vtaa TB^vSks^^ 5 ^ 
the gravy over the meat. 



80 



FIFTH LESSON. 



FRYING AND BROILING. 

The subject of your lesson to-day is, I think, one on 
which instruction is more needed in England than 
upon any other, for there is not one cook in fifty, 
certainly not one in twenty, who can either broil or fry 
decently well. They are two of the quickest ways of 
cooking, and therefore need the greater skill to carry 
them out to perfection. I shall first teach you to broil. 
Like stewing, this is a most digestible method of cook- 
ing, though it is also the quickest way for meat. The 
heat in broiling is so intense, owing to the meat being 
put directly over the fire, that both sides instantly 
become slightly hardened, and none of its goodness can 
escape. The pieces usually broiled are not large, and 
consequently take but a short time. Thin slices are not 
well adapted for this style of cooking, they would 
harden through and become dry ; they should be always 
an inch thick, at least. If anything large is broiled, 
such as a fowl, it should be split open first. Chops, 
steaks, and so on should never go into the frying-pan, 
unless protected by a covering of some sort, as in the case 
of cutlets. Cooks as a rule wont take the trouble to broil 
well, although it is very simple. There are three rules. 
You must have a perfectly clear smokeless fire, and 
broil over it, not in front ; that is sometimes done when 
the top is not fit, but the flavour is much inferior. You 
must turn your meat only once. It is not an uncom- 
mon thing to find in cookery books, " turn your meat 
rapidly five or six tunes." Now, if you think a minute, 
you will see what an absurd mistake this is. Our 
object in cooking is to retain the red juice, which can 
only be done by sealing up the outside of the meat and 
making a case of it ; if you keep turning it rapidly 
before either side has been long enough exposed to the 
Hre, how can you expect fne gtarj to io oYta&rc\«fe 



31 

than run out and leave your steak hard, white, and 
tasteless. You should let one side get fairly cooked, 
then turn it, let the other do the same, and it is ready. 
And the last rule is, you must never use a fork to it. 
Slip a knife or spoon under and turn it with that. If you 
cannot manage without using a fork, stick it into the fat, 
not on any account into the lean, or you will defeat your 
object, and by piercing the outer case lose the gravy. 
Your fire then must be your first attention ; a charcoal 
fire is really the best as it gives neither smoke nor 
flame, with coals you will sometimes need to throw on 
a handful of salt or sugar, either of which will clear it. 
Hotplate ranges and American stoves can be used for broil- 
ing as well as the open stoves, you only have to remove 
the piece of iron over the fire. There are two sorts of 
gridirons made, single and double according to whether 
you cook above or in front. The single one is for the 
top. The double gridiron is made to hang up in front 
of the fire, and possesses many advantages. It opens 
like a book, and has three small hooks at the top upon 
which you hang your meat, you then close it with a 
catch near the handle, and hang it on the bars. There 
is no fear of the fat falling into the fire, and when the 
meat is ready to turn you turn the whole gridiron. 
"When you broil in front of the fire you should arrange 
your meat with the lean downwards, as then the melting 
fat bastes its surface as it trickles down. Of course you 
should serve all broiled meats the moment they are 
done on very hot dishes. I ought almost to have given 
you as rules, " always grease the bars of the gridiron 
thoroughly," " if there is a choice, put the cut surface, 
to the fire first " (a kidney will illustrate the meaning 
of the latter, as it lets all the rich gravy escape if the 
side covered with skin is cooked first), and " broiled 
meats should never be salted;" but that I hope you 
would know as well as I from your previous lessons. 
Salt should never be applied to uncooked meat except 
for purposes of pickling. I have l&eYfc craa ^. <& t^skj^ 
steak to broil. If cooked in the ixp^-^«XL ^aa w&^^s^ 



32 

appearance would be similar, but the meat would be 
hard, colourless, and comparatively difficult to digest. 
Buttock steak is rather cheaper, very full of gravy, and 
almost as good if well cooked. Cut an inch thick it 
will take ten minutes to broil on one side and four on 
the other. I grease the bars of the gridiron, and it is 
a wise plan to heat them slightly, then lay on the 
steak, and having a bright, clear fire, place it above it. 
Meanwhile, chop finely a desert-spoonful of parsley, 
mix this thoroughly on a plate with one oz. of cold 
butter, half a dozen drops of lemon juice, and a little 
pepper and salt ; they will want some working before 
you can get the lemon juice and butter to blend. This 
is called Maitre d'Hotel butter, and is used frequently 
over broiled meats and fish. Maitre d'Hotel sauce is 
parsley and melted butter. When the steak is done, 
lay it on a hot dish, and spread the pat of green butter 
over it. When the steak is cut it will be found full of 
gravy, none other is needed with broiled meats than 
the liquid butter and what it makes itself. A mutton 
chop takes seven minutes in the same way, and on 
being taken up should have Maitre d'Hotel butter or 
half an oz. of butter, a table-spoonful of ketchup and 
pepper put upon it and be put in the oven for half a 
minute to melt it. A chump chop is the most economi- 
cal, there is less weight of bone. A fillet of mutton, 
which is a thick slice from the middle of the leg, is 
cooked like a steak. One secret of successful broiling 
is to have so good a fire that they shall not take long 
in doing, it wants sharp cooking to close the pores of 
the meat at once, and it should not be a great way off 
the fire. Having told you that everything is best broiled 
over the fire, I will now give you an exception, bacon, 
which should always be toasted in front. It is so 
exceedingly fat you could hardly manage it over the 
fire, and it would completely dry up. As I intend to 
serve this with a dish of veal cutlet, I shall cut the 
slices in short lengths from two to three inches, and 
roll each, tightly threading them on. a, ^ksroret. Tftvfei 



33 

will take three minutes, and must be turned. I 
shall then set them on one side whilst the veal is 
broiling. For this dish of veal cutlets you will want 
one lb. of lean veal off the fillet, a quarter of a lb. of 
streaky bacon cooked in this way, one table-spoonful 
of chopped parsley, one tea-spoonful of mixed and 
powdered herbs, two table-spoonfuls of bread crumbs, 
some pepper, the fat that runs from the bacon, or an 
oz. of butter melted on a plate, to which you must add 
the 'parsley, herbs, and pepper, mixing them very 
thoroughly. Cut the veal into thin round pieces about 
the size and shape of the top of a* teacup, trimming 
away skin from the edge, as it would contract and 
draw up the cutlet. Have the bread crumbs on a piece 
of paper and the gridiron ready greased. Dip each 
cutlet (you want seven at least to make a nice dish) 
into the hot butter and herbs on both sides, using a 
skewer so as not to handle it, then lay it in the crumbs 
and shake them well over, lift it carefully on to a clean 
part of your board, and with the blade of a knife gently 
pat it over so as to flatten the crumbs and press them 
on firmly. Now put it on the gridiron, and do this with 
each in succession. They will take fully fifteen minutes 
to cook, veal requiring a long time, and they must be 
turned once. Be careful that the bread crumbs do not 
get charred. By using the bacon fat instead of butter, 
you practise economy and add to the flavour of the veal. 
Prepared in the same way, with an egg in the place of 
the grease, they can be fried. Arrange them in a circle 
upon a napkin or dish paper, placing the rolls of bacon 
in the centre, and as a finishing touch, squeezing some 
lemon juice over the meat. If you have no lemon 
thyme amongst your herbs the grated rind of the fruit 
is very good with the parsley. This makes quite an 
elegant little dish at a small cost. 

To passontothefrying. There are two ways of frying, 
known in Prenoh by the terms " sauter " and " ixvkwt" 
in English by the inelegant epifaate u &rj Vr<j«s%" «s^ 
wet frying.' 9 And it is in to&ti^u&tfx^ Nftusa*^* 



a 



34 

modes and knowing which to use that most people fail. 
Dry frying is cooking in the frying-pan with as little 
fat as possible. Of this I shall give you four examples 
— sausages, liver and bacon, pancakes, and omelettes. 
Sausages are equally good broiled, and take the same 
time, seven minutes. You will want one oz. of drip- 
ping in which to fry one lb. Put it in your pan to get 
hot, and prick the sausages well all over to allow of the 
escape of steam and prevent their bursting. Lay them 
in the fat, and keep them well turned till they are an 
equal brown all over. Don't cook them over too quick 
a fire ; they will shrink, and the fat in them melts till 
they look half their original size. If there is much 
soaked bread in their composition, it is almost impossible 
to prevent bursting, it swells so much. When nearly 
done (they are most unwholesome if at all raw), put a 
slice of crumb of bread to fry with them, In serving 
arrange them upon the bread, which, if it has had the 
fat drained from it, will be found a nicer accompani- 
ment than toast. They are usually served thus or with 
mashed potatoes. Many people prefer sausage meat 
to the sausages. Make it upon your board with a 
knife into small round cakes, using just enough flour 
to prevent it from sticking, and fry in the same way. 
Another method of preparing them common in London is 
to cover them with egg and bread crumbs before frying. 
This is a great improvement if the skin is only taken off 
first. The fat from them is not to be wasted ; it will 
do to fry other things in. I may, in passing, tell you 
of a breakfast dish which is very nice. It consists of 
a slice of fried bread, upon which is piled plenty of 
cold boiled potatoes left from the previous day, which 
had been chopped into dice and fried a rich brown in 
bacon fat ; and slices of the bacon, leaned against it all 
round. For a dish of liver and bacon you must have 
one lb. of liver and half lb. bacon, half-pint water, 
one dessert-spoonful of flour, pepper and salt. Calves' 
liver ib considered the best ; it is the palest in colour. 
Butchers occasionally steep shee^'a YreeT Vn statox^ *a& 



35 

and water to whiten it, and then sell it as calves' ; it is 
nearly as good, and very generally eaten because more 
plentiful. Bullock's liver is somewhat coarse ; it is 
sold at two pence a lb., and eaten by the very poor. 
Cut the bacon in thin slices, and trim off any rusty parts 
and the rind, which by extremely careful people can be 
boiled down for brawn ; put them in the frying pan to 
cook in their own fat whilst you prepare the liver. 
Wash it whole in cold water, but do not let it soak ; wipe 
it dry, then lay it on your board and cut it in slices 
one third of an inch thick straight downwards, not in 
the way silver side of beef is cut. Lay the pieces in a 
clean cloth, and wipe them to make sure all the 
congealed blood is removed, but do not wash them 
again on any account ; all the flavor would be gone, and 
you would not be able to fry it. Mix the flour, pepper 
and salt on a plate, and rub each slice in it so that both 
sides have a good covering. This serves to protect the 
meat from the very intense heat which would otherwise 
completely harden it ; and it also keeps in the richness. 
The texture of liver and of most internal parts is so 
exceedingly close they need very careful cooking. It 
is a nourishing food, indeed too much so, as the propor- 
tion of flesh formers to heat givers is not correct with- 
out the addition of some fat meat, such as the bacon, 
to give more heat producing food. Combining these two 
articles of food, we get more nearly the true proportion ; 
bread and butter, beans and bacon, and so on, are 
all similar instances. When the bacon is done lay 
it neatly round the edge of a hot dish, and keep 
it warm whilst the liver is cooking. Lay the slices 
in the fat close to one another but not overlapping, 
and let them fry gently for seven minutes. Liver should 
be thoroughly done, and not show a suspicion of redness 
on being cut. The great art is to do it so that it is per- 
fectly cooked and yet not hardened, and for this it must 
be done very gently, and be protected to&l ^» %<2*A <sa»fcr 
ing of flour. At the end oi ae^exv wtt»te& \?sr^ *3oa> 
slices for another seven. I o\x$& ^eti\a^ ^ V«s*> 



36 

warned yon to cat them all the same thickness and 
never less than one-third of an inch, or they will shrink 
and become hard. Whilst they are cooking, mix the re- 
mainder of the seasoning with the water smoothly. 
Pour the fat out of your frying pan, and strain it in. 
Keep it well stirred until it boils ; it will need no caramel, 
the brown of the liver will colour it sufficiently, and it 
is not a sign of good frying to have every thing a dark 
mahogany colour, but rather the reverse. Leave the liver 
in the gravy to stew for a minute or two, then lay it 
in the centre of the dish ; and that none of the pieces off 
the frying pan may spoil its appearance, strain the gravy 
over it, but not on to the bacon, which should be crisp 
and dry. The other two examples of dry frying are 
sweet,. 1 will prepare the pancakes first. Make a 
batter; the same that I taught you for Yorkshire 
pudding will do very well (p. 6), only using half the 
quantities, one egg, quarter lb. of flour, half a pint of 
milk, and a little salt ; and for finishing them you will 
require two oz. lard, some moist sugar, and a lemon. 
You, of course, remember that if we had time it would 
bo infinitely better to let the batter stand before frying. 
You want a small round frying pan six inches in 
diameter, and sold for about eightpence. It is quite 
possible to fry pancakes in a large pan such as is used 
for the liver and bacon, but not nearly so convenient, 
as they are more trouble to keep in shape. Lard is 
always used, as it is not so likely to let them stick ; fail- 
ing that, clarified fat is preferable to butter. Now, as 
pancakes should be eaten as soon as possible after being 
cooked, get all you want in the way of utensils about 
you before commencing, that you may waste no time, 
and get a dishful ready as quickly as possible. A clever 
cook can keep three or four pans going at once, and I 
havo been told that on Shrove Tuesday in the London 
eating houses a man and a boy manage fifteen between 
them. You will want a hot dish, a piece of kitchen 
paper, some moist sugar, with a spoon, a lemon cut 
diagonally at one end that the pipa mwj tmA. \»& wfc^ 



the lard and a knife, the batter and a teacup, and a 
dredger containing castor sugar. Put into the pan as 
small a quantity of lard as it is possible to fry with, a 
piece about the size of a filbert, let it get quite hot, fill 
the tea cup half full of batter, and pour it in, tilting the 
pan so that it runs evenly all over, or your pancake will 
not be of equal thickness. Now half fill the cup ready 
for the next. When that is done, it will be fit to turn. 
This can be done by tossing, or with a knife. There is 
no object whatever to be gained by tossing except speed; 
it does not make them any lighter, and is only 
a display of skill, and one which I don't recommend 
you to attempt too early, for if the pancake, as is usually 
the case at first, is landed on the kitchen floor, the 
result is most disastrous. The best way to practise is 
to cut a round piece of bread to fit your pan, and keep 
on tossing that until you are perfect, as if it falls no 
harm is done. Most people are so anxious about turn- 
ing it, that they forget all about its returning to the 
pan, and draw it away so that as it comes down, it 
goes either into the fire or on the floor. Remember 
always to keep the pan steady ; give it an upward jerk 
so that the pancake goes about a foot high, and it can- 
not help turning over. There need be no fear of its 
coming down the same side uppermost again, for it 
will not. It is possible to turn them within an inch 01 
two of the pan, but I don't fancy you will find that 
quite so easy at first. If you turn with a knife, choose 
an old one that will bend a little, slip it under the 
centre, lift it up, and just throw it gently over. You 
can always tell when pancakes are ready to turn by 
shaking the pan, they are quite free and you will find 
them a light brown. When both sides are that colour 
they are done. They only take about a minute, as the 
fire is very quick. Then slip them on to the kitchen 
paper, and pop another little piece of lard into the pan, 
which has got so hot it melts immediately. Pour in the 
batter you have ready in the cup, an& fcfcV*ft»«swt^M& 
fire. Sprinkle some sugar on iYifc pasiabkft ^"^ 






38 

cooked, squeeze some lemon juice over, roll it np, and 
lay it on the dish. Now turn the other, and refill 
the cup ; and so by fitting in all your operations you will 
fry a dishful very expeditiously. This quantity makes 
six to eight, according to their thickness and the size 
of the pan. I should tell you that the thinner and 
less greasy they are the better ; that is why we 
always turn them out on to kitchen paper to absorb the 
fat. Some people grate the rind of the lemon finely, 
and mix that with the batter. Personally I think it a 
great improvement, as the juice gives acidity and sharp- 
ness, but not so strong a flavour. When all are dished 
up, laying lightly across one another, sift some castor sugar 
upon the whole. Omelettes are very little understood in 
England, and yet they are a delicious and inexpensive 
dish, not to mention that it is one of the most wholesome 
ways of cooking eggs. I shall show you to-day an omelette 
aux fines herbes. Take two new laid eggs and break 
them into a basin, add salt and just a little cayenne, 
mince exceedingly finely a piece of shallot no larger 
than a pea, and add that with a dessert-spoonful of 
chopped parsley. Beat the whole lightly together with 
a fork. Put one oz. of butter into the small pan I 
used for the pancakes, and let it get extremely hot ; it 
must bubble well all over. Have a hot plate and a 
spoon or knife by your side, whichever you find most 
convenient. I always prefer a shallow spoon. Take 
it in your right hand, and with your left pour the mixture 
into the pan, begin stirring at once, and don't cease 
scraping it from the sides and bottom until it is getting 
almost firm everywhere, mixing the butter in as you do 
so. You see here we do not use lard, as it is not only 
a medium for frying, but becomes an ingredient in the 
dish. The egg begins to solidify at once, and you must 
not be alarmed and think it is getting lumpy. Most 
people leave it too long before they cease the stirring, 
and so produce for an omelette a substance as solid as 
a dumpling. At the right moment, when a portion of 
the egg is still in its original state, Mt\ta*\itt&!Si& ^\ 



39 

your pan so that it is tilted, and scrape all into the pait 
farthest from you ; hold it so a few seconds — tbe 
omelette must not discolour, — then slip your knife or 
spoon behind it, lower the handle of your pan and at the 
same moment toss the omelette over to the other side. 
Keep it as plump as you can, and directly it is set, shift 
it gently on to your plate. The outside should be just 
so much hardened as to retain its shape, while the 
inside is somewhat liquid. The more eggs are cooked, 
the more indigestible they become, hence a well made 
omelette is not only a tasty, but a wholesome dish, 
inexpensive, too, for it only costs the price of the eggs 
and butter. It requires some practice to make them 
well and expeditiously. A sweet omelette can be made 
in like manner, substituting a tea-spoonful of sugar and 
some flavouring for the parsley, shallot, and seasoning. 
Another form of sweet omelette is just before scraping 
it to one side, lay upon it a tea-spoonful of jam, and then 
fold it over. A more delicate way of producing one " au 
confiture," I will show in the lesson on High Class 
Cookery. 

I hope from these examples to have made you fully 
understand the principle of dry frying. The most im- 
portant cautions are to cook things in as little fat as 
possible, not to allow them to burn, and not to serve 
them greasy. No fried dish should have gravy to it, 
and chops and steaks should never be cooked in this way. 
nor indeed any meat, unless protected by an outer case 
of some sort. Fried fish will be shown in the fish lesson. 
Of wet frying I shall give you only two examples ; for, 
though it is the less understood, it is very simple, and 
the same rules apply in every instance. It is, as I said 
before, " boiling in fat " ; and having told you that, you will, 
I trust, at once recall the rules for boiling. Of course, 
the one as to time does not apply, though, like boiling, 
the process is carried on in a saucepan or frying kettle, 
not in the frying pan. You must have enou^k i afc ^ 
cover whatever you are cooking, an& V& mT^^^^fc 5 ^ 
Yon muat keep the friture -well TC&et, sxA ^&>aa^* ^^ 



I 



40 

for although there will not be the same scum to remove, 
there will in all probability be morsels of batter or bread 
crumbs floating about, which, if not taken out at once, 
burn black, and adhering to your "friture, ,, make it 
unsightly. You will possibly find it a little difficult at 
first to know when to fry in this way, and when to use 
the frying pan. Experience will soon guide you. Any- 
thing needing but a very short time to do, and which 
can be immersed, should be fried in this way, such as 
rissoles, fritters, croquettes, fish, and so forth ; anything 
requiring longer, in the frying pan— such as meat, of 
which you have already had instances. The medium 
in which I fry is the clarified fat, prepared at the first 
lesson. I put quite two lbs. of it into the saucepan to 
get hot uncovered. Either iron or tin will serve, only 
the latter heats more rapidly, and must be the more 
narrowly watched, lest it burn. It is not in the least 
extravagant to be using so much fat. If I required it, I 
should not hesitate to put in three or even four lbs., for 
it is used over and over again until no more remains ; in 
fact, it is never used up, for you will keep adding to it 
as it diminishes, in order to have enough at a time. 
Most people are astonished, and will argue that fat wont 
keep. In contradiction of that theory, I may mention 
the fact that I had some for over a year, identically the 
same, for I did not add to it at all, and had fried in it 
meat, fish, vegetables, and sweets, and yet it was per- 
fectly good at the end of the year ; and the last thing I 
cooked, a sort of sweet cream, known as cremes frites, 
I tasted and found excellent, thereby proving, not only 
that it will keep sweet for an almost unlimited time, 
but that after frying fish even, it can be used for other 
purposes without imparting a disagreeable flavour. And 
lest you should think this is an exceptional instance, I 
may remark that I always use the same fat for every 
purpose. What I use to-day will re-appear on every 
occasion during the courso when there is any frying to 
be done. I nm particularly anxious to impress this 
fact upon you, 'because it is a master oi gce&Xi ^Wi«n^, 



41 • 

A young housekeeper I know told me they have one lb. 
of lard a week for frying, and another still worse had 
seven lbs. in ten days ! Of course we all know where 
it went, whereas the first couple of lbs., if saved, would 
have done the work of the whole seven lbs. If you are 
constantly using it for fish, it will at last begin to taste, 
but not in a general way. The best plan is, when you 
have used your first supply pretty frequently, to keep 
it for fish, having a fresh two lbs. reserved for meat and 
sweets ; after a time pass that on to meat, and have 
more for the sweets, so that at last you get three 
supplies. When you have done with the fat it should 
cool a little, and be strained into an earthen jar, or a 
fresh saucepan, so that it is perfectly free from pieces 
or crumbs, and clean for future use. Your great care 
must be not to burn it, for if once burnt it is quite spoilt. 
It spoils the colour, and gives a nasty taste to anything 
that is cooked in it. There is a certain point at which 
it boils, and if left unused after that, it burns and be- 
comes hotter and hotter, until at last it ignites. I 
need scarcely say how dangerous that is. There are 
three or four tests as to when it reaches boiling point. 
Contrary to water, it does not bubble, but is still, and a 
thin blue fume is seen rising from it. It is not like 
smoke, though it rapidly becomes so, if left on the fire. 
When once recognized, it is the best and most certain 
test. It is some little trouble to see at first. You must 
not come too near, and, if possible, have something black 
behind ; then directly you see it put in whatever you 
wish to cook. Another test is to drop in now and then 
a small piece of crumb of bread, and as soon as it turns 
a nut brown the fat is ready, or a sprig of parsley may 
be dipped in ; it should produce a sharp fizzing noise, 
and become instantly crisp. Very scientific cooks 
would, perhaps, employ an instrument known as a 
frimometer, which registers degrees of heat up to 600. 
You dip the bulb into the fat, being very cautious not 
to let it touch the iron, or it toW. brhq sfc c&ri&n %ss&^ 
should register from 385° to 4^vy> , auroT&sv^ \» ^» 



h 



amount of cooking your " friture n requires, 400° being 
right for those requiring least, 365° for whatever wants 
heating thoroughly through. You will not unfrequently 
hear people say that so much fat makes things sodden 
and greasy ; it is a great mistake. They become so 
when put into the fat too soon, and allowed to lie soak- 
ing there whilst it gets hot, but never if it is of the 
right temperature ; the very heat dries them, as the 
water dries off a boiled egg when it is done. Still you 
must never forget to lay fried things on a piece of 
whitey brown or blotting paper for a minute or two, to 
dry before dishing them up. This is always necessary, 
however well you may have cooked them, they cannot 
be too dry, and should always be served without gravy 
on a napkin or dish paper, arranged as lightly as 
possible so as scarcely to touch one another, or they will 
become sodden and lose their crispness. 

The first example that I shall give you will be some 
apple fritters, for a dish of which you will require 
three apples or more, according to their size, a quarter 
lb. of flour, two dessert-spoonfuls of salad oil, a quarter 
pint of tepid water, some salt, and the stiffly whipped 
whites of two eggs. These latter ingredients are to 
make a batter. I have shown you one for pancakes, 
but frying batter, as you will judge from this list, is 
totally different. It is mixed on the same principles. 
Put the flour in the basin first, drop into the centre 
the substance most resembling egg — the oil ; and having 
stirred in a little flour, add the liquid. Now most 
people imagine, by tepid water we mean finger-warm, 
and that if they feel nothing on putting their finger in 
it is right, quite forgetting that what seems to them 
tepid at one time will, if their finger happens to be cold, 
strike them as hot at another. In this, as in every 
thing, it is safest to have a rule ; two-thirds cold and 
one-third boiling will give you exactly tepid water. 
Stir it smoothly into your batter, not forgetting to beat 
it, and lastly mix in as lightly as possible the egg, 
which must be so stiffly wnipp©3i as to fcto&ftL s\.orc\ft. 



43 

In winter two table-spoonfuls of clean snow will answer 
the same purpose, and save the expense of the eggs. 
This is the best form of a plain frying batter that I 
know. A more simple one still can be made of 
nothing but flour and beer with a most excellent result. 
Unlike the other batter, this will not improve by 
standing. It may be left an hour with advantage, but 
after that the egg begins to fall and loses its lightness. 
Peel the apples, and cut them in slices (across the 
core) of the thicknes of a shilling. With the point of 
your knife cut away the core, leaving the apple in a ring. 
Have a sheet of kitchen paper by your side, and as soon 
as the fat is ready take up a ring of apple on a skewer, 
dip it in the batter, and, having covered it completely, 
drop in gently into the fat. Do the same to several 
pieces, as many as the pan will hold without their 
touching, for they will join if they do ; and always use 
a skewer, and lift them by the hole in the centre, so 
that none of the batter may be knocked off. Now if 
you look -into the saucepan you will find the small 
pieces I spoke of floating about. Strain them out, and 
as the fritters are floating, and have blown almost into 
balls, turn each over that they may brown on the other 
side also. Directly they are fawn-colour they are done 
enough. "We cut the slices of apple very thin, on pur- 
pose that they might not take long to do ; and you must 
remember that the heat of this fat is very intense, 385° 
at least, 173° higher than the temperature of boiling 
water, so they are soon cooked through, and the batter 
would be spoilt if left in longer, it would take too dark 
a colour, which is a sign of bad frying, and suggests the 
probability of the fat having been burnt. As each is 
done lift it carefully on to the kitchen paper, and set 
them in front of the fire to keep hot whilst the 
remainder are cooking. You must not omit again to 
watch for the blue fume, for very often the heat is 
lowered in the cooking of the first supply, and the next 
are spoilt because put in beioxfc \\» t*^&£& *"&& ^rrsssw^. 
temperature. When ail arfe <\ona \wj Cassia. «^fc ^sg&x^ 



44 

the other in a circle on your dish, and sift some castor 
sugar over. Any fruit can be served in the same way. 
Oranges and lemons, which are very juicy as well as sour, 
are best rolled in sugar before going into the batter, and 
need more skill to keep it over them. What are known 
as German fritters are delicious, though so simple, 
being only fancy shaped pieces from the crumb of a 
loaf soaked in milk, and then fried in this batter. 
Similar pieces of cake soaked in wine give you a higher 
class variety of the same thing. It is a quickly and 
easily made sweet, as well as economical and whole- 
some. 

The same batter can be advantageously employed as 
a means of using up cold meat. Pork fritters are. 
particularly good, and slices of cold mutton dropped 
into this batter and fried are excellent ; so are pieces 
of boiled parsnip — for those who like vegetable; 
whilst it is one of the best possible ways of preparing 
that cockney delicacy, tripe. As you have had a lesson 
upon its preparation (p. 18), you will know that it 
must be well boiled first, and allowed to get cold. Then 
cut it into strips two inches long and one and a half 
wide, fry it in a coating of this batter, arrange it on 
your dish like the fritters, and fill up the centre with 
rings of onion which have also been fried in the batter. 
Real tripe lovers, especially if you have not removed 
the fat, will tell you that this is infinitely to be pre- 
ferred to the more popularly known "tripe and onions;" 
any way, it is a change. Never make more of this 
batter than you are likely to use ; it will not keep, 
and anything cooked in it should be eaten at once. If 
you want to warm it up again, the best way is to 
plunge it into the fat for a minute, and the next best 
to put it uncovered into the oven. 

As an instance of the frying of vegetables, I will 

prepare and cook a few potato ribands and chips* 

Select round potatoes, and cut them in slices three- 

quarbera of an inch thick. Peel the akin off each slice, 

so as to leave the surface smooth TO&ein&RK^^taRi^ 



45 

with a narrow-bladed and sharp knife, keep on peeling 
the potato away very thinly until it is one long riband, 
unwinding it much in the same way as you would a 
piece of tape. It requires some practice to do it with- 
out breaking. Keeping the thumb of your right hand in 
advance of the blade is of some assistance, and you 
must strive to have the riband as thin as it can be cut. 
They must never go into water : " nothing fries crisp 
that is wet." Twist them up into true lovers' knots 
and fancy shapes, and drop some into the hot fat — not 
too many, or it will boil over, for it immediately 
bubbles right up to the top of the saucepan, owing to 
the water in the potato itself, which must all be got 
rid of before they can become crisp. As soon as the 
bubbles go down you will see the pieces, the same 
shapes that you put them in, of a golden brown colour, 
and so brittle that they crush with a touch. Lift them 
carefully out on to kitchen paper, sprinkle salt over 
them, and serve them with broiled meats or game. 
Potato chips are made by preparing the potatoes simi- 
larly, and then cutting the large slices into several thinner 
ones, of about the thickness of a shilling. From these 
examples I hope you will gather a clear idea of how to 
fry. It is no more difficult than any other process ; 
they all alike require care and attention. It has been 
called an unwholesome way of cooking, and in some 
respects it is, especially if any of the fat is left about 
the thing fried ; but it is remarkably quick, and very 
useful in the preparation of small and fancy dishes. 



SIXTH LESSON. 

PIES AND PUDDINGS. 

I am continually asked for new puddings, it seems a 
difficulty to produce a variety, and I fear you will be 
disappointed when I only show youto-fo^ wo^ixsss^A 
ones aa plum, treacle, gooseberry, THjfe, vcA ^sMfcaa&A 



46 

and yet I think you will find there is something to be 
learnt about all of these. 

As you already know, the first thing is to put the 
saucepan on to boil. One large one will do, for you can 
boil as many puddings together as the pot will hold 
without injuring them. Your second proceeding must 
be to grease the basins thoroughly, using dripping in 
preference to butter, because there is no salt in it. 
Use your fingers to rub the dripping on with, and having 
done so, look to see that there is none of the basin 
left uncovered. My experience is, that if the fat is 
melted it is not so efficacious in preventing the pudding 
from sticking as if used cold. The most important rule 
for you to remember in pudding and cake making is, 
mix all the dry ingredients together and all the moist 
before you put the one with the other. Of course you 
will find many exceptions to this, as there are such an 
immense variety of puddings, but I feel convinced it 
will save you from many mistakes, and will be found 
a generally correct rule. For a good plain plum pudding 
1 shall require seven ozs. of flour, five ozs. of bread 
crumbs, quarter lb. of sugar, quarter lb. of currants, 
quarter lb. of plums, quarter lb. of suet, two ozs. 
candied peel, two eggs, one gill of milk, three quarters 
tea-spoonful of baking powder, and, for those who like 
it, half a salt-spoonful of mixed spice or of nutmeg, and 
it will take two hours to boiL Beef suet makes the 
richest pudding, but mutton suet the lightest. You 
know how to chop it ; do so finely. More than the quarter 
lb. can be used for those who are very fond of rich 
puddings, in which case omit the baking powder. Put 
the flour in a very dry basin, add the baking powder, 
chopped suet, spice and sugar, stone the plums, and, in 
order that the pudding may look richer, chop them up. 
That is the secret of the dark colour of the puddings you 
see at small eating houses. There is a large amount of 
colouring matter in raisins, and still more in currants, 
which are sold by the people of Corinth for dye to the 
t English, they not being aware oi \toaVt w&* «& IwA. 



47 

Rub these very thoroughly in a cloth, sprinkling a 
little flour over them. You will be surprised to see 
how dirty it gets. By this means also you rub off the 
small stalk which clings to the cloth, and have picked 
your currants twice as quickly as if you did each 
separately. Then, before putting them with the other 
ingredients, sprinkle them on a plate in case any small 
stones should accidentally have got among them; if there 
are, you will soon hear the sharp click they make in 
falling. Now we have got all our dry ingredients in 
one basin, break the eggs in a cup, one at a time, in 
case they are not both good, and put them in a little 
basin with the milk. Beat with a fork sufficiently to 
mix them, and add it to the dry ingredients, using 
a wooden spoon to mix with. It should be so stiff 
that the spoon will stand upright in it. Now pack 
it firmly in the basin, smoothing it down at the top 
with a knife; the basin must be quite full or the 
water will get in. Dip the centre of your pudding- 
cloth in the boiling water, wring it dry, and dredge 
flour over it. Don't smooth the flour on with your hand, 
that will make it stick, but shake it lightly over ; then 
shake off what does not adhere, and lay the cloth upon the 
pudding; tie it firmly round with string just under the 
rim of the basin, which will keep it from slipping; 
take hold of the opposite corners, pull them out 
to tighten it and tie them in a knot at the top ; do the 
same with the other ends, and you have secured the 
cloth from coming off and provided a handle by which 
to lift it out. Plunge it in and leave it for two hours 
— no longer. It is a common mistake to imagine that 
you cannot boil a plum-pudding too long ; you can, 
unless it be an extremely rich and large one, which will 
take twelve or fourteen hours : a modorate one such as 
this will deteriorate if allowed to cook longer than its 
proper time. It would be done sooner, and be lighter, if 
boiled in the cloth ; but its appearance 'wowld. \» *rr&k»- 
what sacrificed. You should n.<yax ^oms &r&&. SxL^&Sk 
same way and lay it inside a pu^m%\>««va.% *&&^ ^ 



mkdae§ 



48 

ensure its being a good round shape ; pack in the pud- 
ding, gather up the cloth, and jie it very securely, but 
not tightly. Yon must leave it room to swell, and 
remember, on putting it into the water, to lift it once or 
twice lest it sticks and burns. Indeed, it would be well 
to put a plate or saucer at the bottom, for, the fruit 
being heavy, it does not float like a suet pudding. If 
you want to bake the mixture, it must be slightly 
altered ; one egg less, half the sugar, and the bread-crumbs 
are not necessary ; you can use three-quarters of a lb. 
of flour only, and it can be made with either dripping 
or suet. Bake it in a greased tin; it will take an 
hour. 

I shall next mix a treacle pudding, a very economical 
and wholesome one, one lb. flour, one tea-spoonful of 
baking powder, quarter lb. of suet, quarter lb. of 
treacle, one egg, a gill of milk, and half an ounce of 
ground ginger. This also takes two hours to boil. If 
you are not studying economy, two ozs. of candied 
peel is an agreeable addition. Put the ingredients 
together, as I have just shown you, and it may be a trifle 
limper than the plum pudding was, but you must be 
even more particular about the way you tie it, for this 
is always singularly light. It can also be baked in 
a greased tin ; if of the shape of a cake tin, it wants 
one and a half hours in a moderate oven ; if in a 
shallower flat one, about three quarters of an hour to 
an hour. 

For a meat or fruit pudding we prepare a mixture 
like the suet pudding, you have already learnt, only 
not quite so rich, three quarters lb. flour, quarter lb. 
suet, three quarter tea-spoonful of baking powder, 
moistened with just enough cold water to make it 
into a tolerably stiff paste. For people who like very 
rich crusts use half as much suet as flour : one third 
is a good medium. Six ozs. of flour and two ozs. of 
suet is ample for one and a half pint basin if fruit is to 
be used, as the crust cannot be too thm, ^covided it 
not break. Meat puddings Teqvnifc ^* <sc\s&\. xsS&Kt 



49 

thicker, and take two and a half to three hours to boil 
I take one pint of gooseberries and two table-spoonful* 
of moist sugar. Always sweeten your puddings and 
pies before cooking, the sugar has twice the effect. 
A quarter lb. to the quart of fruit is the proper propor- 
tion. Flour yourpastry board and your rolling pin, cut off 
one third of the paste and roll out the rest till twice as 
large as the top of the basin, Now lay it neatly in, 
(the basin having been greased thoroughly), and leave 
no folds or creases, at the same time you must be care- 
ful not to break it. Don't trim the edges yet, put in 
half the gooseberries, previously topped and tailed, then 
the sugar, the rest of the fruit, piling it high in the 
centre, and about a half gill of water for juice as the 
gooseberries are young and woody. With apples also, 
when going out of season, a little water is necessary, but 
not with other fruit. Wet the edge of the crust round, 
roll the remainder out until large enough to cover the 
top, lay it over and press the edges well together. Now 
take up the basin in your left hand, a knife in the 
other, and trim the edges off, sloping the knife away 
from the basin at the point and cutting from you and 
downwards like an upright saw. With the back of 
your knife gently free it from the edge of the basin all 
round. Tie a floured cloth over, and boil it for an 
hour and a half. To make a meat pudding of it you 
would require, in place of the gooseberries, one lb. of 
beef steak and quarter lb. of bullock's kidney to give 
richness and flavour to the gravy, one table-spoonful of 
flour, pepper and salt. Mix these latter on a plate, 
cut your meat into pieces about an inch square, and roll 
them in the seasoning. The flour thickens the gravy, and 
you get the pepper in this way evenly distributed through- 
out. Use the same quantity of water, and finish and cook 
it like the gooseberry, only boiling it twice as long. In 
either of these cases dripping can be substituted for 
suet, and is by some people much pref erred % tha oraSa^ 
difference in its use being that \\»\%\^c^ ykSG^Vvs^ 
the dour, as I shall be showing ^ov*. ^xsafc**^ Vst *&»> 



50 

short crust. Beef skirts is a cheap part very suitab 
for pies and puddings, it is not always necessar 
indeed it is wasteful, to have the best rump steak, eve 
buttock is almost too good, by which I mean inferic 
parts will answer the purpose as well. A small pie< 
of milt is an improvement, it makes wonderfully goc 
gravy. 

A roly-poly pudding is made with the same crui 
rolled out very thinly, spread with jam or marmalac 
and rolled up. You must just wet the edges to mal 
them adhere. Lay it in the centre of a narrow clot] 
properly prepared, and sew it up. Pins are dangerou 
they get imbedded in the pudding, and string mak< 
an ugly mark. Moreover, the cloth should never t 
folded round and round, once is enough, and a need 
and thread is the only means by which you can seem 
it comfortably. Allow room for the pudding to swel 
and tie the ends very securely with string. It mui 
be boiled in a saucepan wide enough to admit of il 
lying flat, and will take an hour and a half. A ni< 
variety is the " Good Daughter's Christmas Pudding 
in which, in place of jam, you sprinkle over the crui 
two table-spoonfuls of currants, the same of choppc 
apple and moist sugar, and a little mixed spice. 

Should these boiled puddings be found too heavy f< 
weak digestions, even if made with mutton suet, butt* 
can be substituted, and will be lighter. The plui 
pudding is then most delicious, especially if steame 
Pastry can be shortened or made light with suet, butte 
lard, oil, or clarified fat ; but, as this is your pasta 
lesson, I think I shall use butter, and you must unde: 
stand that clarified fat can be used instead in the sail 
quantity and manner. 

The difference by which pastry is made either short < 
flakey consists in the way in which the shortening or buttt 
is added. For flakey crust, which I shall first sho 
you, it is added after the flour is wetted and made in 
a paste. Take half a lb. of flour, a quarter of a lb. • 
batter, quarter of a pint oi qo\<1 ^atet,* ra> \s&& 



51 

powder, because there is sufficient butter to lighten it 
without; it is only needed as an economy in plainer 
crusts to make them lighter, and, therefore, more 
digestible. Mix the flour and water into a tolerably 
stiff paste, about the same as the suet crust used for 
gooseberry pudding. Flour your board, rolling-pin, and 
hands, but only slightly, — good pastry makers never 
work much loose flour into the paste when rolling it, — 
and be careful to have no pieces at any time sticking 
to the board. Roll your pastry out as large as you can 
without breaking it ; don't be afraid, you cannot hurt it, 
and it does not matter which way you roll it as there 
is no fat in it yet. Having done so spread your butter 
evenly over it as though spreading bread and butter, 
sprinkle a very little flour, and fold it in three one way 
and then in three the opposite way, so that you have 
nine folds altogether with layers of butter between 
them. Now you must be careful which way you roll — 
always from you, not from side to side, and don't roll 
heavily, but lightly and effectually giving the crust a 
push forward each time so that it gets gradually longer 
and longer. When it is rolled as far as possible with- 
out letting the butter come through (and you must 
carefully avoid squeezing it out), fold it again in three, 
turn it round so that what was the side is now nearest 
to you, and again roll it out straight from you. — Fold 
it once more in three, and now it is ready for use. 
Tou can roll it, lastly, without fear any way according 
to the shape and size of what you are making. The 
object of this frequent folding is to produce a number 
of flakes in the crust ; each fold of the paste is a flake, 
and the farther from you you roll it, the thinner and 
therefore lighter the flakes will be. Always take the 
whitest flour for pastry-making, not because it is the 
most nourishing as you will hear in your bread lesson, 
but because it is most starchy and makes the lightest 
crusts ; and, remember, the great secret of success ia to 
mix the butter in without 1^&&ng\VYb.^&& ^taRRa** 
Tins paste can be used ior a smsXl Tafc^fc* ^g^^ 



52 

pint pie-dish, or two such of apple, the only fruit 
over which a flakey crust is correct, or for mince 
pies, patties or sausage rolls, which latter I shall 
use it for to-day. Half a lb. of sausages, the paste 
and an egg, will make six rolls ; for you never find 
a whole sausage in one, it would be too large, they 
are always cut in half. Before doing so parboil them 
for five minutes. You can then very easily remove the 
skin, and the meat being thus partially cooked, you are 
not obliged to sacrifice the crust to the sausages. If you 
used them in a raw state, it would not be safe to con- 
sider the rolls cooked in less time than from half to 
three quarters of an hour, underdone pork is to 
unwholesome as well as unpleasant, but the crust 
would be ruined, for that only wants twenty minutes in 
a very quick oven ; get over the difficulty by cooking 
the sausages first ; then split them in half lengthways. 
Boll out your crust to a square and cut it in six, each 
piece about three inches by four inches. You will then 
have no waste. Lay half a sausage in the centre of 
each. Break your egg on to a plate, lightly beat yolk 
and white together, and then brush along one side and 
the ends of each square. Fold the side without the egg 
over the sausage, then the other slightly overlapping it, 
so that the egg will bind them together ; keep the join 
along the centre, and to make sure that they join, gently 
press it with the back of your knife, and the same at the 
ends, which, if needful you must trim, though it is better 
not to do so if it can be avoided. Lay them on a greased 
baking tin about an inch apart, and bake in a very quick 
oven. Greatcare must be taken in the baking. If put into 
too slow an oven the butter all boils out, the crust 
does not rise, and tastes hard, though it may be partly 
due to the butter not having been well rolled in with the 
flour. They possibly require turning, but don't open 
the oven door for the first five minutes. After a 
quarter of an hour they must be brushed over with egg 
to glaze them ; in twenty minutes they will be done, 
unless they axe to be eaten not. Orv\fe\n% ^afesstL w&Vta*^ 



53 

should lean against the edge of a plate to cool. Yon 
will generally find that the top is the hottest part of the 
oven, except in those stoves where the flues run under- 
neath and in gas stoves. 

I showed you how to use this crust for patties in 
your second lesson ; if they are made with fresh meat 
they will require to bake three quarters of an hour. 
Veal and ham, which is exceedingly nice in them with 
some chopped parsley, wants longer — about an hour. 
If previously cooked, it makes nice rolls in place of 
sausage meat. Short crust is by far the easiest for 
beginners. It differs from flakey in having the shorten- 
ing added to the flour before the water, in being rolled 
out only once to half the thickness of flakey crust, 
and in generally being sweetened — as it is intended for 
fruit pies, tarts, and the edge of puddings. To save 
time and trouble it is sometimes put over meat ; then 
omit the sugar. 

For a fruit pie in a pint dish I shall want four ozs. 
of flour, two ozs. of butter, one pint of fruit, two ozs. 
of moist sugar, three quarters of an oz. of castor, and 
some cold water. Put into your dish half the green goose- 
berries, which have been topped and tailed, add the moist 
sugar and then the rest of the fruit; as they are not very 
juicy, pour in half a gill of water, and then make the 
crust. Put your flour into a clean dry basin, and with 
the tips of your fingers break into it the butter in small 
pieces, then lightly rub it between your fingers until it 
resembles sifted bread-crumbs ; add half an oz. of castor 
sugar and the cold water by degrees, making it into a stiff 
paste. In very hot weather you will have some diffi- 
culty with the butter, and will need less water, for the 
paste must not be soft when you roll it out, or it sticks 
to the board terribly. Roll it in any direction you 
please, so that you keep it the shape of your pie-dish. 
It must be rather larger, to allow of your cutting off a 
strip to lay round the edge. Never turn it o^st ^\s&r> 
rolling, and don't put any dry flour on W\a tofcofc ^** 
it a common appearance. Let tYie «fcn$ cii crasfc"^ 



54 

really on the edge, and not partly into the dish, where 
it will only be sodden, heavy, and indigestible. Wet 
it slightly and lay on the cover, pressing them carefully 
together, take the dish np in your hand and trim the 
edges sharply off, slanting the point of yonr knife 
away from the dish as much as you can, so that the 
paste may slightly project beyond the edge to allow for 
shrinking, and ornament it in any way you please by 
markings with a knife, spoon, or fork, always re- 
membering that the decoration of a fruit-pie must be at, 
not on the edge. Shake a few drops of cold water upon 
it and dredge the remainder of your castor sugar over. 
Put it in a quick oven for twenty minutes to half an 
hour; it will want turning. The crust only has to be 
considered, for the fruit stews so quickly it is always 
cooked when the pastry is. Never make a hole in a 
fruit-pie ; the juice boils over, spoils the appearance of 
the crust, is wasted, and makes a disagreeable smell in 
the oven. These are examples of the two different 
ways of making pastry. They are by no means the 
only ones, but are the most simple and certain of 
success. 

The trimmings off the fruit pie I roll out to line the 
edge of a pie-dish in which I am going to make a Baked 
Custard. First grease the bottom thoroughly, that the 
custard may not burn to it, and wet the edges to make 
the paste adhere, or it will slip off and be lost in the 
pudding. In this case I take particular care that it 
shall go well down the sides of the dish into the custard. 
No doubt you will think I am very inconsistent to 
warn you against this and then immediately to do it, 
but in this case there is an excellent reason. We 
want the custard solid, and the crust is to absorb the 
water, some of which is always found in milk; and, 
since it is never intended to be eaten, it is of no. 
consequence that it becomes sodden. No doubt you 
are all familiar with the watery appearance a custard 
sometimes has when baked m a <&&\v ^rittaout a lining, 
owing to the whey or watery "^ax^ oi \2fca tcS^k. -osfe 



55 

having been absorbed. Ornament the edge by laying on 
leaves or fancy shapes cut out of the pastry, or even 
with markings only, and then mix the custard. Pour 
yolks to a pint will give you a very good pudding ; a 
plainer one can be made of two whole eggs ; a white 
can always be put in to save a yolk, but your pudding 
will lose in delicacy and creaminess. They should be 
new laid if possible, and the milk should also be 
perfectly fresh. Put it on the fire with three lumps of 
sugar, an inch of cinnamon stick, some lemon rind, or 
any other flavouring you fancy, and bring it nearly to 
the boil. Beat the yolks together and pour in the hot 
milk, still beating; strain the mixture into your pie- 
dish, and set it in a moderate oven for three-quarters of 
an hour. It ought not to be moved until quite cold. 
Those delicious custards without a single hole that you 
get in country farm-houses are generally put into the 
brick oven when the bread comes out, and left there to 
cool. If moved, they " quackle," or are perforated ; a 
perfect custard should be the same throughout. 

Lastly, I make a milk pudding with semolina. If I 
had some pastry over, a little round this dish would be 
an improvement, though there is here no necessity for 
it. Puddings of this description — for the recipe 1 shall 
give you serves for rice, sago, tapioca, and so forth — can 
be made with or without eggs. As a matter of taste, 
everyone must decide for themselves ; as a matter of 
economy always omit them, not only because it saves the 
actual cost of the egg, but because it would be " adding 
butter to bacon ; " the pudding is nourishing enough as it 
is, and moreover, to bake an egg is the worst thing you 
can do to it so far as its digestibility is concerned. 
The less eggs are cooked, the better ; the intense heat 
of the oven so hardens the albumen, as to render it 
completely insoluble, and I hope you remember what I 
told you in your first lesson about insoluble food. 
It could not nourish us, since everything before doing so 
must be converted into fluid ani \«jb» \oto> ^^>^*^ 
I have chosen semolina because it is afc ^as> *ax&s> v asaR> 



56 

very little known, and very valuable. I have often 
been astonished to find complete ignorance of its exist- 
ence. It is a very fine grain of a yellow appearance, 
and is produced from the red wheats which grow on 
the banks of the Danube, and in southern Europe 
generally. It is the coarsest siftings when the corn is 
ground for flour, and is actually a part of the grain, a 
small chip, just as hominy is composed of chips of Indian 
corn. The wheat from which it is made is the richest and 
most nourishing that can be grown, and semolina being 
the same thing, must be equally so. Wheat produces 
bread, which all admit to be "the staff of life," and 
semolina is the wheat in another form, hence it must be 
as nourishing. An immense amount of ignorance 
prevails as to the dietetic value of sago, tapioca, and 
rice. They are starchy foods, heat-giving and force- 
producing chiefly, they make little bone or muscle; 
whereas semolina is a flesh-forming as well as force- 
producing food, both of which you know we must 
combine to obtain a perfect diet. It is, moreover, very 
rich in phosphates, which are boue-forming matter, and 
consequently it is an excellent food for children, 
superior to the others which derive their chief value 
from the milk with which they are cooked. Rice is the 
grain of a grass grown in the East and America chiefly, 
and though more largely consumed than any other 
cereal is not the most nourishing. The way the people 
die off in India in time of famine shows at what a low 
ebb their strength is, and an Englishman will do in one 
day fifteen times the work of a coolie. Sago is the pith 
of a palm tree (called the sago-palm), rubbed through a 
sieve and dried ; it is purely starch, so is tapioca, which 
is prepared from the root of the cassava plant, being 
slightly heated in preparation, which causes it to assume 
the granular form with which we are all acquainted. 
These two, therefore, cannot make any muscle or flesh 
at all, and one lb. of rice can only produce, when 
digested, a little over one oz., whilst the same quantity 
of semolina will make more than tmw a* toxm&L 



57 

Two table- spoonfuls to a pint is the proper propor- 
tion for these puddings. Melt a little fat in the 
saucepan first, so as to grease it ; that often keeps it 
from burning ; then pour in the milk, and bring it to 
the boil. If you use skim milk, half an oz. of suet 
boiled in it until dissolved restores to it the nutritive 
value it has lost by the removal of the cream. When 
boiling, sprinkle in the grain and let it cook fifteen 
minutes, stirring all the time ; sweeten it with a 
dessert-spoonful of powdered white sugar, and add a 
few drops of any flavouring you please. Pour it into 
a greased pie-dish ; it will only take a quarter of an 
hour to finish, in a moderate oven. If eggs are used, 
cool it a little when you take it off the fire, and then 
beat one in ; it must not go in when the mixture is too 
hot, or it will be poached. Some people like a little 
grated nutmeg over the top. Tapioca will want stew- 
ing in the milk rather longer, and it is a good plan to 
soak it over night. If poured into a mould, which has 
been dipped in cold water, and left to get cool, it will 
turn out as a blanc-mange, a far more nourishing one 
than those generally made of corn-flour, which is 
nothing but starch. If three table-spoonfuls are used 
to the pint and it is cooked until very stiff and then 
put into the mould for a minute or two to take the 
shape, it can be turned out and served while hot. For 
children it is an excellent food, simply boiled in milk 
and eaten with sugar. But it is time to take up the 
puddings. Have your dish ready and a plate on to 
which you first lift them whilst you remove the cloth 
and the water drains away. I take up the plum- 
pudding first. Untie the string, you might cut the 
cloth if using a knife, and gently uncover it ; above all 
things, don't be hurried. It is not an uncommon 
practice to plunge the pudding for a minute in a tub of 
cold water ; the sudden shock loosens it from both 
basin and cloth, without making it cold. Next^ tak& 
the back of your knife and gently taaro >tafc ^o&Sxfcs^ 
away from the edge, where it might Vrc^ra^^ ^aS*- 



58 

Shake it well, and if it does not seem loose knock the 
side of the basin against the table, keeping the cloth 
between, so that you don't star the crockery. Then 
carefully reverse it over your dish and lift up the basin. 
Dredge a little white sugar on the top and serve a glass 
of brandy with it as sauce, if any is required, or the 
same quantity of wine, with two lumps of sugar and 
half a gill of water thickened with a tea-spoonful of 
corn-flour and boiled for two minutes. If the pudding 
cracks or bulges at the side, it is a sure sign it is not 
done enough. It can very well be boiled again in a 
freshly greased basin. If you know it is not cooked 
enough — sometimes it is convenient to partially boil it 
one day and finish it the next — don't turn it out, but 
hang it up as it is, then, in re-boiling, allow about a 
quarter of an hour extra for heating it through. You 
see it has increased considerably in size, and so has the 
treacle pudding, which I take up next, and with which 
a little warmed treacle may be served as sauce. In 
taking up a meat or fruit pudding, you must be par- 
ticularly careful in reversing it upon your dish not to 
let the weight of the basin rest upon it, or it will 
assuredly crack and let out the juice, besides giving the 
pudding the appearance of failure. 



SEVENTH LESSON. 



CHEAP DISHES. 

Most people come to this lesson, expecting to be taught 
how to get a dinner for nothing, or next to nothing. 
That would be cheap in one sense. What we mean to 
show, is dishes made from inferior, and therefore cheap 
parts of the bullock and sheep, combined with other 
articles of food, which supply those dietetic principles, 
in which the meat itself is deficient.. We are not 
trying to teach English people to "\rJO on Vk&Sl wufe<» 



59 

or porridge, though that would be cheap, because 
English prejudice is so strong in favour of a " meat 
dinner," that it seems better to take the materials in 
common use amongst the poor, and show them how to 
make most of what they have got. And you must not 
think that we shall exhaust, or nearly exhaust the list 
of cheap dishes in one lesson, that were an impossibility ; 
we can only point out principles, and leave you to in- 
troduce varieties. The first I shall show you, is the 
French national dish, Pot-au-feu. I fear it will never 
be so popular in England as it deserves, because English 
people are not so fond of soups as the French. With 
them, it is an especial favourite, because it suits their 
stoves, is no trouble to cook, needs only one pot for the 
soup, meat, and vegetables, and generally affords a 
foundation for the remaining meals of the week. The 
butchers in France cut up the meat somewhat differently 
from ours. Their joints are mostly lumps of flesh 
without bone, and such a piece of meat is correct for 
Pot-au-feu. If you can persuade a butcher to cut 
a joint of top-side in half, downwards, you will have a 
prime piece for your purpose, without bone or fat; 
failing this, you must content yourself with what you 
can get, and may be roll it up, and use string to keep 
it in shape. I have eaten this dish in France, made 
from shin of beef, and it was very good. It is cooked 
for an immense time, and the gristle and sinew become 
so softened, as to be quite agreeable. If such a part 
is used, the cost of the dish is very small, shin being 
at least twopence a lb. cheaper than other parts. 
Sticking piece, oxcheek, and chuck steak are also cheap. 
You must have at least four lbs., also two of each vege- 
table in season, carrots, turnips, onions, leeks, parsnip, 
some celery, a bouquet garni, twenty peppercorns, 
and dessert-spoonful of salt. A white heart cabbage, 
too, will be cooked in it. French people take their 
soups weaker than we, so that for four lbs. of ma^fe 
they would use four quarts of water. \ ^^"W^^^-* 
prepare it by the English Tule, one ^vofc to VJa»\& ..»«&&■ 



60 

one pint over. Cold water is to be used, and the meat 
should be put in the first thing in the morning, as 
it is to simmer nearly all day ; four hours is the shortest 
time you must allow it. Most people imagine that 
the meat will be stringy, and perfectly tasteless. On 
the contrary, it cooks so slowly and gently, that it does 
not in the least go to rags, and rather gains in flavour 
than loses, owing to the presence of the vegetables. 
These, by the way, should not be peeled if you are 
preparing it in true French fashion, only well washed, 
and then tied in bundles, or put into a net, that they 
may not break up, and thicken the soup, and that they 
may be easy to remove. Wait until your liquor is 
really boiling, and then add the vegetables. A very 
careful housewife puts in the bundle of carrots, and 
waits until the pot again boils, before adding the next 
vegetable, as they never cook tender unless plunged 
into boiling liquid. Leave this simmering very gently 
for four hours, skimming now and then. Prepare the 
cabbage by cutting it in half, washing very thoroughly, 
and then tying it into shape with string ; an hour 
before dinner this will go into the pot, to boil in the 
soup. If you are careful to skim well, and let it only 
simmer gently, you will find the liquor very like good 
clear soup, clearer than what passes as such with many 
people, and having a good meaty flavour. It will not, 
of course, be finished in the time allowed to this lesson, 
so I shall tell you now how it is served on the continent, 
that you may have the recipe complete. Take up the 
net or bundle of vegetables, and cut one carrot, and one 
leek, which latter, by the way, the French put them in 
with much more green attached than we should, and 
shred them very finely, i.e., cut them in long thin strips 
across, not lengthways. Then remove the joint, and 
put these strips into the soup, which is served for the 
first course as julienne. Sometimes the liquor has 
crushed tapioca sprinkled into it, one table-spoonful to 
> a quart, after which it simmers £ot ^^e^Taimxtes^ and 
k h called Tapioca bouillon*, ot it ma^ \>fc VtoasfeKfcs& ^<*n&v 



61 

ground rice, arrowroot, pea meal, &c, according to 
taste, though it is the general custom abroad to prefer 
clear soups to the thick, which better suit the heavy 
English taste. Meanwhile the meat is keeping hot over the 
stove. Eub the skins off the vegetables with a coarse 
cloth, lay them round the joint, and send that in as 
the second course, while for the third, you have the 
cabbage, (from which, of course, you remove the string) ; 
vegetables always forming a separate course. I should 
be glad to convince people of the value and savouriness 
of this dish, for it is both economical and digestible, 
and I am sure that once tasted, it will always be a 
favourite. 

Dr. Lankester has said that "if flesh employed as 
food, is again to become flesh in the body ; if it is 
to retain the power of reproducing itself in its original 
condition, none of the constituents of raw flesh ought 
to be withdrawn from it during its preparation for food. 
It follows, therefore, that boiled flesh, eaten without 
the soup formed in boiling it, (the bouilli without the 
bouillon) is so much the less adapted for nutrition, 
the greater the quantity of water in which it has been 
boiled, and the longer the duration of the boiling." 
This is why stews are so particularly good and 
economical, for both are eaten together. Had you not 
had a special lesson upon stews, all of them might 
have come in under the head of " cheap dishes." 

We next go to Ireland for an example of economy, 
though I am told that this dish is not so often met 
with in that country as from its name you would 
suppose. For a small dish of Irish stew you require 
one lb. of meat, one pound of potatoes, half a pound of 
onions, salt, pepper, and half a gill of water ; or better 
still, so far as the price and nourishment are concerned, one 
pound of meat, one pound of onions, and two pounds of 
potatoes : but this, I fancy, most people, except the 
very poor, would And too savoury to be agreeable. 
Still, it is cheaper ; you have \ftaa m*^ ^fcfc tbss*. 
expensive article, and more 'vegetable* to \mB» %, *» ^ 1 



62 

long way ; and the vegetables are very nourishing, at 
least, the onions are. You will constantly be assured 
by vegetarians, and with truth, that they contain the 
same nourishment as the meat, though they must admit, 
not in so compact a form. The meat I am using is the 
scrag end of the neck of mutton. What would be 
really better would be the short bones from the beet 
end of the neck and the breast, because they are fatter, 
and potatoes being remarkably deficient in fat, by using 
the two together, we should be practising the highest 
form of economy. Cut the meat into moderate pieces, 
and put a layer of it at the bottom of your saucepan. 
Always begin with the meat ; if potatoes are next the 
fire, they burn. Season it with pepper and salt. Then 
peel and slice the potatoes and cover the meat with 
them; next do the same with the onion, cut in rings; 
then another layer of meat, seasoning each as you add 
them, and so on until all the ingredients are exhausted. 
Lastly, pour in the water, which you may remark is 
very little, much less than the ordinary allowance for 
stews. It is a common fault for Irish stew to be too 
liquid, owing to the fact that both potatoes and onions 
consist largely of water, which is extracted by the heat, 
and mingling with the water you add, produces more 
than enough. Knowing the constituents of the vege- 
tables, we make allowance for their nature, and get 
over the difficulty by only adding just sufficient liquid to 
prevent the meat from burning until the juice is 
drawn out. There is a Spanish way of cooking rabbits 
without any liquid at all, upon a bed of sliced onion 
which is founded upon this principle. Cover Irish stew 
closely, but set it by the side of the fire to simmer very 
gently indeed, for at least an hour, but two would be 
better. The grease flowing from the fat will be taken 
up and absorbed by the potatoes ; and should that be 
thought too rich, it can be corrected by boiling the 
meat alone in water very slowly for an hour previously. 
All the oleine will be found floating on the top of the 
water, and can be skimmed vwvs* \wrca% *0w6> lafe 



63 

apparently undiminished in quantity, but without that 
oiliness which is the part that disagrees. Leaving that 
co stew, I will prepare some Cornish pasties. They 
are meat and vegetables enclosed in crust, and are much 
used in Cornwall by the miners, who find it a con- 
venient form in which to carry their dinners. Gentle- 
men, also, take them out hunting ; and the combina- 
tions in them are sometimes very odd— mutton and 
turnips, fat pork and apples, and even red herrings are 
occasionally used. They ought to have a suet crust, 
and if they are to be eaten hot, it is very good, but 
when cold, it is somewhat hard, so that dripping is 
preferable. The ingredients are three quarters of a lb. 
of flour, three quarter tea-spoonful of baking powder, 
quarter of a lb. of suet or dripping, eight ozs. of meat, 
and the same of a watery vegetable, pepper and salt. 
I am using steak and potatoes, both of which must be 
cut into small dice, and mixed together upon a plate 
with the seasoning. Make some short crust, as I taught 
you last lesson, and roll it out to the thickness of 
quarter of an inch. Cut it into eight squares — which 
should be about six inches each way — place in the 
centre of each two ozs. of your mixture — being one oz. 
of meat and one of vegetables — moisten the pastry at 
the edges with water, and fold it over, cornerwise. 
Press it together, and trim it round. Turn it up, so 
that the join runs along the top, and make a frill with 
your fingers by placing the first finger and thumb of 
your right hand against the crust, and with the first 
finger of the other at the opposite side of the pastry, 
gently forcing it between them. Gauffreing it in this 
way on the top distinguishes them from turnovers, 
which are sweet, and also serves to strengthen the join. 
Grease a baking sheet, and place them on it in a 
moderately good oven, to bake for an hour. If it is 
too slow to set the crust they fall and lose their shape. 
Five minutes before they are done, they must te> 
brushed over with egg ot sweet \*eex, *x& T*fcssraR&. ^r> 
brown. On being cut open, foe^ V^\» tosx&> \s3£^ *S 



64 

delicious gravy, provided your pastry has had no holes 
in it and the join has not given way. 

Next we go to Italy for a ' cheap dish ' and we find mac- 
caroni cheese. Maccaroni is a paste made from the flour of 
the rich red wheats grown in southern Europe, and which 
confcnin twice the quantity of flesh-forming material 
found in ordinary wheat. Sometimes a little cheese is 
mixed with it, and it is formed into a stiff paste with 
egg. Machinery then forces it through tubes, giving it 
the cylindrical shape we are familiar with, after which 
it is hung up until dry, and then is ready for use. 
Chesnuts and maccaroni form the staple food of the 
Italian peasantry, a fact sufficient of itself to impress 
us with its nutritive value. They have a variety of 
ways of serving it. It can be stewed in stock and 
served with browned crumbs over it — " au gratin " — It 
can be cut up and used in soups and stews ; it can be 
boiled in milk and eaten as a sweet with sugar ; it can 
have egg stirred into it after being boiled, and then put 
into a pie-dish in the oven for a quarter of an hour, 
and you have a baked pudding, or it can be served as 
maccaroni cheese. Besides these there are many fanci- 
ful ways of using it not shown in these lessons. 
However it is cooked it should always be first blanched. 
Put it into boiling water (not cold which allows the 
tubes to stick together in a lump), and let it boil for 
half an hour. Then strain away the water and proceed 
with your dish. I shall need quarter a lb. of maccaroni, 
one pint of milk, two ozs. of strong dry cheese, salt, 
pepper, cayenne, and one oz. of butter. It will take 
one hour and a half to prepare. Having poured off the 
water, I add the milk and let it gently simmer for 
nearly an hour. It is a wise precaution thoroughly to 
wipe out your saucepan, and then make half an oz. of 
your butter very hot in it over the fir© before putting 
in the milk ; it is less likely to burn. Half an oz. of 
cheese stewed with it gives it a more mellow 
flavour. When it has stewed t\a*fc charters of 
«d hour (you must not omit to sfcxi \to ^asro 



65 

and then), take out some of the maccaroni 
and lay it on a flat dish, sprinkle it well with your 
grated cheese and seasoning, then put out more 
maccaroni, more cheese, and so on, pouring the milk 
over it at the last, it will have very much reduced in 
quantity. Cut your hutter into little pieces and place 
them ahout the top, brown it in a very quick oven, in 
front of a fierce fire, or with a salamander, and serve it 
very hot. I have pointed out to you the great nourish- 
ment there is in the maccaroni, the milk will alone 
support life, and the cheese contains, weight for weight, 
more flesh-forming matter than meat; still this dish 
does not agree with everyone, their digestions not being 
strong enough to derive the full advantage of its 
nutritive properties. When it can be eaten and 
digested, cheese is a more satisfying, because more 
staying food than flesh. The fattest and most crumbly 
sorts are the more easily digested, but the hard dry 
kinds, such as are suitable for this dish, are the most 
nourishing. 

One way of economizing, as you may have noticed, is to 
add to your meat some cheaper substance for bulk such 
as pudding, potatoes, or pastry. Toad-in-the-hole is a 
very pleasant combination, being meat and batter. The 
batter you have already seen in use for the pancakes 
and Yorkshire pudding would make this dish very well, 
but it is too rich for a lesson on cheap dishes ; I shall 
use a plainer one — six ozs. of flour, one egg, one pint 
of milk, half a tea-spoonful of baking powder ; this, 
with one lb. of meat baked for an hour, will form a 
delicious and satisfying meal. The meat may be any- 
thing you please. I believe it should be from the bullock, 
that of the sheep being " Frog-in-the-hole." Steak 
must be cut up, sausages are very good, so are chops or 
bullock's kidney ; and, indeed, it is an excellent way of 
using up any small pieces, even of cooked meat. The 
batter must not stand in this case, because of th& 
baking powder, which would lose \to iprcet YL \*Rfc»<stf3*a^ 
at once. You mix it as X tav\\£hfc ^ovsl Vdl ^wxx. ^as& 



66 

lesson. Grease a deep tin or dish, lay in the meat, pour 
the batter over and bake it at once. It must be sent 
to table in the dish in which it is cooked. Should yon 
use the more costly mixture, let it stand in the basin, 
not in the tin, and stir it before you pour it oyer the 
meat. 

For my last example of " cheap dishes," I return to 
the French — Soupe maigre au lait. They are very 
clever in making soup without meat, and some of their 
preparations are delicious. This is one : Soup au chou- 
fleur, does not sound so tempting to English eare, but 
it is, nevertheless, good ; so is cabbage soup, made by 
cutting up a good-sized white heart cabbage in lengths, 
shreding it, in fact, as you would pickled cabbage, or a 
lettuce for salad, only not so finely, then putting the 
pieces into three pints of boiling water with two ozs. of 
butter, seasoning and boiling it for an hour, adding 
three quarters of a pint of milk, letting it boil up, and 
then pour it upon the crust of a French roll, and serve. 
For Soupe maigre au lait you will want four large 
potatoes, two leeks or onions, two ozs. of butter, two 
quarts of water, one pint of milk, three ozs. of crushed 
tapioca or semolina, one tea-spoonful of salt, a salt- 
spoonful of pepper, and it will take one hour and a 
quarter to prepare. Peel the potatoes and cut them in four, 
remove all the green from the leeks ; for this should be 
a white soup and that would discolour it ; divide them 
lengthways. Put these with the butter and seasoning 
into the boiling water and let them cook for an hour. 
After that time, strain it on to the top of a wire sieve, 
which you must then place over your saucepan, and 
with the back of a wooden spoon rub through it all the 
vegetable undissolved by the boiling. To assist it in 
passing through, you can from time to time take some 
of the liquor from the basin and pour it over. 'When 
there is nothing left on the sieve but the fibre of the 
vegetables, turn it up and scrape underneath, then add 
the milk to the soup and bring it to the boil. Whilst 
it ia boiling, shake in from a *\&e\> <A ^s^st \h^wji 



67 

left hand the tapioca whilst you stir it rapidly with the 
other. Let this cook fifteen minutes, and it is ready to 
serve. You can ascertain when the tapioca is cooked 
by its becoming transparent, and until then it must be 
stirred or it settles and cooks in lumps. In making 
this soup you must be particularly careful that your 
saucepans are perfectly clean ; if not, instead of a white 
soup, you will have a grey one. The addition of a 
quarter of a pint of cream makes this soup fit for com- 
pany. As I have shown it you, it is very cheap, costing 
from threepence to fourpence per quart, according to 
the price of milk. Any grain you please can be substituted 
for the crushed tapioca, though not so well, its gelatinous 
nature forming the best liaison. When finished, the 
meal of the potatoes ought to be sustained by the 
grain, so that every spoonful of the soup is the same. 
If it is not cooked enough, the meal and grain go to 
the bottom, then you have the milk and water with 
the butter floating on the top ; when correctly made 
there is no trace of grease, the liquid is thick, and the 
grains are visible equally throughout. 



EIGHTH LESSON. 



FISH. 

Fish is a valuable article of food, as it affords a supply 
of easily digested nourishment at a small cost. Its 
nutritive value is not equal to that of meat, since it 
contains a large quantity of water in proportion to the 
solid matter, but this is to a degree compensated for by 
the presence of the phosphates of lime, potash, and 
soda, all of which are essential ingredients in our diet, 
and particularly useful in forming and solidifying bone. 
The strength and hardihood of the fish-eating popula- 
tion round our coasts may assure ma oi \&&. *^\&fe 
fish are the easiest of digestion, Iot,\mkn& Vosskafiaak* 



68 

with a liver, their flesh is less oily than that of salmon, 
mackerel, herrings, pilchards, sprats, eels, &c., though 
these contain, actually, the most nourishment. Macke- 
rel may stand at the top of the list and whiting at the 
bottom. For the same sum you can obtain no other 
article of food so nourishing as the herring. Fortuna- 
tely, the supply is plentiful ; in one year twelve 
hundred millions were sold at Billingsgate alone. It 
is always wise to buy the fish that is cheapest ; it will 
be the one most plentiful and therefore in season, and 
all are unwholesome when out of season. The fibre is 
then tough and stringy, and, instead of being white and 
curdy, has a bluish appearance. Your nose is the best 
test of its freshness, for stale fish betrays itself quickly. 
When perfectly fresh, the flesh will be firm and stiff, 
the skin and eyes bright ; the redness of the gills is no 
test, it can be produced chemically. The scarlet spots 
on plaice fade away and eventually disappear as it 
becomes staler. 

All the methods by which meat is cooked are appli- 
cable to fish, and in many cases the rules are similar. 
I shall commence by boiling a slice of cod, and I am 
bound to inform you that this is the worst way in 
which you can cook fish, so much of its nutritive value 
is extracted by the action of the water. If it has been 
previously salted, it is comparatively worthless when 
placed upon the table. The salt draws out some good- 
ness; it is then soaked, thereby losing more, and, 
lastly, it is boiled. However, some sorts of fish are 
nearly always prepared in this way, such as salmon, 
brill, turbot, cod, mackerel, and several others, which 
are cooked whole. There is no rule as to the time it 
will require. That varies with the thickness of the 
piece, not its weight ; for you might have two pieces, 
each weighing one lb., and yet one taking twice as 
long as the other, because of its shape. There are 
various tests by which you may know that it is done. 
The best is to pierce it with a skewer, and if it feels 
soft, not tough, near the 'bone, vou ma^ roxL&\&& ; &S&. 



69 

When the fins and tail will pull out is another, bat 
with that you will spoil the appearance of your fish : 
when it comes away from the bone also ; but then I 
should say it was on the eve of falling to pieces, and 
decidedly over-cooked. When the eyes turn white, I 
once heard seriously asserted as a reliable test ; but as 
every slice of cod or salmon is not furnished with eyes, 
it is scarcely a practical one. A fish kettle is generally 
used, being more convenient in shape, and fitted with a 
strainer, enabling you to lift out your fish without 
breaking it. Fill it half full of water, and add enough 
salt to make it as salt as the sea. When you can get 
it, sea water is correct for boiling fish. Some cooks 
add vinegar instead to make the flesh firm. Prepare 
your fish by thorough washing in cold water, and, to 
keep it in a good shape, tie it with string. When the 
water is boiling, rapidly lay it upon your strainer, and 
carefully lower it into the kettle. The intense heat at 
first is necessary for the same reason as in cooking 
meat, to harden the albumen, and keep in its goodness. 
Immediately draw it on one side, and let it remain 
below boiling point until it is cooked. The great mis- 
take is to let it boil ; the skin is so delicate it falls 
away, ruining its appearance, and the outside is cooked 
before the centre is more than warm. If there is any 
liver with your cod, boil it for ten minutes in a separate 
saucepan, and cook as much only as will be eaten ; it 
does not warm up. Before dishing up, stand the strainer 
athwart the kettle, with a cloth over it, to drain. Fish 
should be served upon a dish paper or table napkin, 
and garnished with parsley and lemon. A very pretty 
effect is produced by laying round your dish alternately 
slices of lemon (with the rind on) and sprigs of parsley, 
and upon each piece of lemon a small heap of white of 
egg whipped very stiftly and a mite of lobster coral, or 
spawn sprinkled on the top. But this is a more suitable 
" garniture " for turbot, which is served with lobster 
sauce,* and should be well rufttadi V^ \sh&ss^ ^^ 

* For fish sauce, see Lesson V. Votive B.\^C^V^«*- 



70 

before boiling to preserve the whiteness of the skin. 
The black skin of the turbot is esteemed a delicacy, 
and so are the fins, which should never be removed. 
It is particularly important with salmon to remember 
that it must go into boiling water, otherwise you would 
blanch it, and destroy its rosy hue. Small fish, such 
as whiting and mackerel, are occasionally cooked by 
being put on in cold water, and when it boils, they 
are done. 

By far the better way of cooking fish is to bake it, 
it is both more nourishing and more savoury. All fish 
may be baked, though perhaps it is best adapted for 
the least oily sorts. They must have a covering of 
some description to prevent their drying too much. 
The best plan is to wrap them in buttered paper, and 
on removing it you will find a supply of juice drawn 
out in the cooking, which should be eaten with them 
or used in the sauce. It is a delicate way of preparing 
a sole for an invalid. Instead of the paper, they may 
have a covering of egg and bread-crumbs, and they 
should then be basted from time to time with dripping. 
I will give you the recipe for stuffing and baking 
such as codling, haddock, gurnet, shad, and all thick 
round fish. Two ozs. of crumbs, one spoonful of chopped 
parsley, one tea-spoonful of mixed and powdered herbs, 
pepper, salt, and egg, milk or fat to bind it with ; the 
same as for veal, with another oz. of crumbs substituted 
for the one of suet.* I have here a haddock. All fish 
must be well washed, but not allowed to soak, and they 
ought to be cleaned from the gills. Unfortunately, 
English fishmongers slit them down underneath instead, 
as it is slightly less trouble. It does not look so well, 
and obliges you to sew your stuffing in. Remove the eyes 
from all fish except from the cod ; those are considered 
a treat by some people. Scale them, if not already 
done, by rubbing with a knife from the tail to the 
head, then trim the fins and tail neatly with scissors. 

* See Lesson I, PagpT . 



71 

Form your stuffing into a ball, place it inside, and with 
a trussing needle and fine twine fasten it there, taking 
as few stitches as you can. Before baking, if you can 
fasten it into shape so that it stands with the back 
uppermost, instead of lying on its side, your dish will 
be handsomer. To fix it in the shape of an S, run your 
needle through near the tail, then through the centre, 
and lastly, through the head ; tie the string together 
underneath. This is a favourite way of trussing salmon 
and salmon trout, when they are served whole or for a 
cold mayonnaise. They should then be steamed, not boiled, 
it keeps them more perfectly whole ; a potato steamer 
will hold a small one. There is another way of fasten- 
ing the tail, in the jaws or through the eyes, but this 
stretches the skin and causes it to crack. Dry the 
haddock very thoroughly and brush it over with egg ; 
hold it up by the string and sprinkle fine crumbs over 
it until perfectly covered, especially about the head. 
Put into a deep baking tin two ozs. of dripping, lay your 
fish in carefully, and bake it for about three quarters of 
an hour, basting occasionally with the dripping. When 
done it should be golden brown, and ought to taste 
very moist and savoury. Fresh water fish are delicious 
cooked in this way. If the back-bone is removed from 
pike and it is stuffed, it loses all the disagreeable muddy 
flavour. Other fish may also be baked ; mackerel and 
herrings are split open down the back, one is laid in a 
tin, herbs, chopped parsley, onions, bread-crumbs and 
seasoning are sprinkled over it, and another similarly 
opened is laid on the top. The whole is covered with 
bread-crumbs placed in a deep tin with some dripping, 
and baked for twenty minutes in a good oven. This is 
known as Mackerel a la Normande. Soles are very 
good in this way, but you must bear in mind that if 
you over-bake fish at all, it is as dry and worthless as if 
over-boiled. 

Broiling is the next best way ot <s&s&sxs% *fc^~ 

Slices of both cod and salmon %xe> <!fc<&R&. ^ ^^ 

manner, and should be first dxgg& into wfcak ^ ^ 



72 

prevent their drying; smaller fish such as mullet, 
smelts, whiting, should be wrapped in greased writing 
paper. Having had a lesson on broiling, you will not 
forget to grease the bars of your gridiron. Dirty as it 
sounds, fish should not be washed before broiling, only 
well wiped, water blisters the skin. Split a mackerel 
or herring down the back; if you like to take 
out the back-bone, it can be done, sprinkle 
it with pepper, and place it on your gridiron. Broil 
the cut side first. This is a regular rule in broiling. 
A mackerel wants five minute's cooking. Serve it on a 
very hot dish and spread over it Maitre d'Hotel butter,* 
or a sauce made in this way. Make one oz. of butter 
very hot, put into it three quarters of an oz. of flour, 
and let it fry quite brown, as brown as coffee, pour in 
half a pint of cold water, and stir it until it boils. 
Just before pouring it over the mackerel, add one 
dessert-spoonful of vinegar, seasoning, and a table-spoon- 
ful of capers, and you will find it delicious. Fennel 
finely minced can be substituted for the vinegar and 
capers ; or you can make a sauce piquante. Pry a 
shallot, a little carrot, and a few herbs, a sprig of each, 
in one oz. of butter, stir in three quarters oz. of flour, mix 
well, add half a pint of cold water, and bring it to the 
boil, squeeze in the juice of half a lemon, add one table- 
spoonful of mushroom ketchup, not omitting seasoning, 
and let it stand in a warm place to steep for about 
twenty minutes before serving. As a rule, neither 
baked nor broiled fish require a sauce. The French 
steep fish and steaks before broiling them in a 
4 marinade,' or pickle bath. It is a good plan making 
them mellow and tasty. Wine frequently is used for 
it, but an economical one can be made of one pint of 
salad oil, quarter of a pint of vinegar or tarragon 
vinegar, pepper, salt, parsley, two shallots, and any 
fresh sweet herbs you can get, the herbs, parsley, and 
shallot, being minced as finely as possible. If yon lay 
your fish in this for some hours, taxxm\% them now and 
then, you will find it an imme iisfe im^toNgraspk. 

* See liesson V. Ya^e 3&. 



73 

Frying is a suitable way to dress fish, and a favourite 
one. I am going to fry a sole ; in order that you may 
learn how to prepare it properly, it has not been 
skinned. The cleaning of a sole is a very simple matter ; 
make a small slit near the head, and remove the gills 
and inside. To skin it, lay it on a board, make a cut 
across at the tail, insert your little finger or thumb and 
run it first up one side, then the other. This loosens 
it. Now hold the tail firmly on the board, seize the 
skin with a cloth, it is apt to slip without, and draw it 
backwards, noticing carefully at the first that it is free 
from the flesh, or it may pull that up too and leave the 
the bones bare. Rip it off, and your sole is in the 
condition in which the fishmongers deliver them. There 
is still another skin, a white one on the opposite side 
which should be removed likewise. It is not so trouble- 
some to manage. . The difficulty you experience in 
getting them off is a capital test of the freshness of the 
fish ; stale fish skin easily. If I were cooking this for an 
invalid, I should leave both on to keep in the goodness, and 
remove them before sending it to table. Trim off 
the fins and tail with scissors, wash it well, and it is 
ready for dressing. Too many people fry soles in about 
a quarter of a lb. of fat. This should not be an instance 
of dry frying, but of boiling in fat, and we consequently 
need at least one and a half lbs. I shall not surprise 
you by this quantity, for you know now it is not ex- 
travagant,* indeed, much less so, than buying a quarter 
of a lb. every time you have fried fish and throwing it 
away. If you have a frying kettle, which is like a fish 
kettle with a strainer made of wire grating, put your 
fat in it to get hot, if not, a frying-pan large enough to 
hold your fish will suffice. While the fat is heating 
dry the sole perfectly, a cloth is scarcely effectual, some 
flour dredged over and brushed off again answers 
better, then break an egg on to a plate, beat the yolk 
and white slightly together, lay the fish in, and brush 



* See Lesson "V . I?agp 4&, 



74 

it all over. Now you must only use a skewer to shift 
it with, your fingers would take off the egg, and prevent 
the crumbs from adhering. Have some fine bread- 
crumbs on a sheet of paper at your side, let them be 
spread to the size of the fish, lay it on them, and shake 
the rest well over. lift it carefully out with the 
skewer and lay it on a clean dry part of your board. 
Take a broad bladed knife and firm on the crumbs by 
gently pressing it all over. You can mend places 
imperfectly covered. Your fat is now ready ; it must 
not be quite so hot as for frying fritters or potatoes, for 
we don't want the crust of the fish nicely browned and 
the inside raw, and if the heat is too great that is what 
will happen. The sole, if moderately small, will want 
about seven minutes ; if a fine one, ten ; and very 
large, fifteen. The larger it is, the cooler you must 
have your fat when you put it in. Lift it off the 
board and lay it down carefully. It should be com- 
pletely immersed in the fat, if not, it will need turning, 
and it is in that operation cooks generally fail ; as they 
slip the slice under to shift it over, they invariably 
knock off some of the egg and crumbs and leave the 
white flesh bare. Have a piece of whitey-brown paper 
at hand, and when it has had its time, lift it out and 
place it upon it to drain. A fried sole is scarcely ever 
neatly and evenly covered with the crumbs, partly 
because they are not finely and regularly made, and 
still more because they have not been properly firmed 
on. They are also uneven in colour, the fins being 
dark brown, and the centre pale, owing, no doubt, to 
their having been fried in insufficient fat. Fried, like 
boiled fish, should be served on a napkin or dish paper, 
and a little melted butter should be sent to table with 
it in a tureen. Some cooks manage to fry fish very 
decently in flour only. Batter, such as I taught you 
for fritters, is an excellent substitute for bread-crumbs. 
Pieces of plaice are generally dipped in it. That fish, 
by the way, seldom has its black akm xamoved,, it is so 
eeedingly gelatinous and sticks *a V»V$a&s Vtaafc ^w^ 



75 

would destroy the fish in taking it off. It can be done, 
but it is not worth the trouble, it makes a good protec- 
tection for the fish, which is of so watery a nature, it 
needs one. It is generally cut in pieces, through bones 
and all ; but if filletted, it is thought by some people 
equal to sole. The pieces at the fried fish shops are 
only dipped into a batter of flour and water, and as I 
know from reliable authority, fried in horse oil ! Beer 
and flour make a good batter for this purpose. 

Potting is the only other way I shall illustrate of 
cooking fish. There are others. It may be curried or 
stewed, for instance ; but, from what you have learnt, 
I feel sure you will be able to manage them. Oily fish 
are the best for potting, such as mackerel and fresh 
herrings; for the acidity of the vinegar counteracts 
their richness, and enables us to digest them. It is a 
dish intended to be eaten cold, and very useful at 
breakfasts, luncheons, and suppers. For two mackerels 
or four herrings, you must have a quarter of a pint of 
vinegar, thirty peppercorns, a blade of mace, a shallot, 
some salt, a few herbs, and a couple of bay leaves. 
Wash and clean the fish, then cut it into pieces one 
inch long. Lay some at the bottom of a Nottingham jar — 
you cannot cook them in metal, the acid would act 
upon it — sprinkle over a portion of your herbs, spices, 
and minced shallot ; then another layer of fish, and so 
on, pouring in lastly the vinegar. The jar must be 
covered very securely with strong brown paper or a 
paste of flour and water, and set in a slow oven for 
quite six hours ; or, if put into a baker's oven when 
the bread comes out, it may be left there all night. 
The long, slow cooking completely destroys the sharp- 
ness of the vinegar, which is so objectionable to some 
people. The whole contents of the jar are served up 
together. Soused mackerel is somewhat similar, but 
cooked fish can be used in this way. It is by far the 
best way of serving what is left in hot weather. Ife 
preserves it when otherwise it ^wovAsl %o >&*&,> «s^\s» ^ 
delicious dish. Acids axe alwtt^fc tossa -^&sfcs£&R> ^ 



summer. Lay your fish in a deep dish, with herbs and 
spices, as for the potted fish. Make a mixture enough 
to cover it of half vinegar and half the water the fish 
was cooked in, which must be boiling when poured on 
to the vinegar, The intense heat drives off some of 
its acidity in the same way as the long cooking. Four 
it upon the fish while still hot, and leave it until the 
next day, when it will be found delicious. Salmon is 
equally good so treated. There are numberless ways 
of disposing of cold fish. Amongst the nicest is Fish 
Cakes. They are general favourites, and useful in that 
they use up also the remains of cold boiled potatoes. 
You must have equal quantities of each — one lb. of fish 
and one lb. of potatoes. I shall use this slice of cod. 
When fish is sent from table, it should be freed from 
all skin and bone. If allowed to get cool, the gelatine 
in it sticks them fast together, and gives you twice the 
trouble. However, you mean to re-warm it, this 
must be done. Mash your potatoes by rubbing them 
through a wire sieve. Make one oz. of butter and one 
table-spoonful of milk hot together, pour them into the 
potatoes, and stir them perfectly smooth. Next add 
the fish and some seasoning. Bind the whole with the 
yolk of an egg well mixed in, but don't break the fish 
more than you can help in so doing. It must not have 
the appearance of having been pounded. Break an egg 
on to a plate, and beat yolk and white together. Have 
your saucepan of fat on the fire hot, some fine crumbs 
on a sheet of paper by your side, and a piece of paper 
upon which to drain them, and your board dredged 
with flour. Divide your mixture into table-spoonfuls, 
roll them in the flour, so that they shall not stick to 
the board, but not in so much as to prevent the egg 
from adhering. With a broad bladed knife form them 
into flat round cakes about two-thirds of an inch in 
thickness, then roll them in the egg, then in the crumbs, 
and lastly firm them on with the knife, and at the 
same time perfect their shape, which has possibly got a 
little damaged. When a\yout aix. ax« to&&3 , fcra^ >3&K\a. 



77 

one by one gently into the fat off a slice. Mind that 
they are not so close as to touch, and do not fall on top 
of each other. The fat may he hotter for these than 
for soles, for we only need to brown the outside and 
warm them through ; they are already cooked. It 
must quite cover them, and as each is a golden brown, 
lift it out, beginning where you dropped in the first, 
and lay it on kitchen paper. When all are fried, 
arrange them on a dish paper in a circle, each slightly 
overlapping its predecessor. Another way of finishing 
them is to glaze them with egg, and heat them through 
in the oven, or dip them in grease and crumbs, and 
warm them in the same way ; but frying is the favourite. 
Very artistic cooks can make of the mixture "fish 
pudding " by forming it on a tin into the shape of a 
fish, which is then glazed and baked. Unless cleverly 
done, this is an unsightly failure. Any amount of 
fish can be made up in this way by increasing the 
quantities I have given you. One lb. always wants 
the yoke of one egg, two lbs. the yoke of two, and so 
on. As a matter of economy, a whole egg can be made 
with care to serve for two lbs. ; but the white does 
not bind so well as the yolk, nor is it so delicate. 
Any sort of fish can be made into fish cakes, those with 
white flesh being most usual for the purpose. 



NINTH LESSON. 



BREAD AND CAKES. 

Op all the cereals, wheat is the only grain from which 
you can make fermented bread. In Northern Europe 
you meet with the " black bread," which is produced 
from rye ; but it is close, heavy, and sour, and needs 
two-thirds of wheaten fiour added to make it light and 
palatable . Barley-meal and Indian com ^^ *&sa \&&i& 
bread with flour added. Oatmeal \s tooVrctsta tet\st«^ 



78 

making, but yields oat-cakes and biscuits. Wheat also 
contains more nearly than anything else, except milk 
and eggs, the true proportion of flesh-formers and 
force-producers necessary for our sustenance. It will 
grow in every climate, but that produced between lati- 
tudes 25 and 60 is the best. Flour is sold under 
various names : " Households," " Seconds, " ** Pastry 
Whites," " Brown Meal," " Biscuit Flour," and so on ; 
and in order to appreciate the distinction between them 
you must understand something of the composition of 
the grain and the processes in the mill. The centre of 
the grain is a pure white substance, which is mostly 
starch; outside that is a layer of the flesh-forming 
matter known as gluten, and between this and the husk 
there are no less than six separate coverings. The 
different qualities of flour are produced according to the 
way in which it is sifted ; the whole grain is ground 
together and then carefully shaken through fine sieves. 
The best (in the corn-chandler's sense) is the most sifted, 
from the centre alone, the next is not so fine — a coarser 
sieve having been used, some of the outer coverings are 
with it ; but you must remember it does not follow that 
the best is most nourishing ; on the contrary, " seconds" 
will yield better bread than " households," since it con- 
tains more gluten in proportion to the starch. Starch 
is a force-producer and heat-giver, and gluten a flesh- 
former, so that the whitest breads are not always the 
best food ; they supply force, but make no flesh, and 
contain none of those mineral matters in the wheat 
which are so valuable in the formation of bone and the 
purifying of the blood. The white Vienna bread, for 
instance, is not a suitable food for growing children ; a 
coarser sort, such as that made from brown meal, is 
infinitely better, always provided the brown meal is 
genuinely produced by the grinding of the whole grain, 
and not by simply mixing a quantity of bran with 
ordinary flour, as is often the case. The fibrous part of 
the bran is indigestible, and people, therefore, deny that 
brown bread is more nourishing tti&ii tr\&&. Tms^ vea 



79 

partly right. The bran in some cases acts as an irri- 
tant, and hurries the food along the digestive canal 
before the full goodness can be extracted ; on the other 
hand, it contains a valuable ferment known as cerealin, 
which materially assists the digestion ; and they must 
remember that the flour of brown bread undoubtedly 
contains more nutritive matter than that of white. 
" Pastry whites," as its name implies, is chiefly used 
for pastry and cakes; being principally starch, it is 
very light. 

Sometimes bread is divided into two classes, vesicu- 
lated and unvesiculated. Biscuits, since they contain 
no air-bubbles, may be considered as unvesiculated 
bread. Ordinary bread, however made, is vesiculated, 
or full of holes. Unvesiculated bread is mentioned in 
Scripture as unleavened bread. Australian damper is of 
the same kind. The lightness of bread depends upon 
the carbonic acid gas stored in the dough. This, when 
exposed to heat, swells, and in so doing raises it, pro- 
ducing the bubbles in the loaf. Vesiculated bread can 
be made of two sorts, fermented and unfermented, and 
both alike owe their lightness to the carbonic acid gas, 
though it is produced by different means. I shall 
illustrate both, commencing with the fermented. 
Either leaven or yeast will produce fermented bread. 
Leaven is not much used now; it is a piece of the 
dough kept from the previous baking until it turns sour 
and begins to ferment ; some of the starch in the flour 
is converted into glucose, then into alcohol, and, lastly, 
into carbonic acid gas. If this is then added to fresh 
flour it leavens the whole and makes fermented bread. 
The yeast most in use now-a-days is sold by corn- 
chandlers, under the name of German yeast. It has 
been well washed and dried before exportation, and 
will keep good for two or three days — longest, of 
course, in cold weather, and if under water. If it is 
fit for use it is pale in colour, and breaks off short and 
crumbly; if it is sticky and soit, it \* -*&<&!»& %\s^&> 
perhap* the best test of all, since it -praranfek Vta& ^k»- 



80 

perty of breaking up sugar, is to put it in a basin with 
a tea-spoonful and stir them together ; if it works with 
the sugar and becomes a liquid syrup, you can use it — 
it will make your bread light. Yeast is a small plant 
which rises to the surface of the beer like scum during 
fermentation. That from small beer makes the best 
bread ; porter-yeast is apt to be bitter and give your 
loaf a dark colour. It is used in the same way as 
German yeast, and two table-spoonfuls are equal to 
one oz. If too much is used the bread will be un- 
eatable from bitterness, and it is a wise plan to 
commence by scalding it. 

To make a quartern of flour into bread you will 
require one pint and three quarters of tepid water, one 
oz. of German yeast (one and a half ozs. is enough for 
two quarterns), one tea-spoonful of salt, and one of 
sugar. Cream the yeast with the sugar, and, if good, 
add to it the tepid water. Put three lbs. of your flour 
and the salt into a basin, make a well in the centre, 
and gently pour in the yeast, mixing, meanwhile, with 
your right hand, in the same way as the egg is worked 
into the flour for Yorkshire pudding. It must . always 
be a puddle in the middle and as smooth as cream ; 
if you mix it irregularly you will have lumps of 
dry flour through the loaf, known as " slut's far- 
things." Haying added all the liquid, work it 
slightly. It must not be kneaded yet, only aufllciently 
worked, by turning it in from the sides to the centre, 
to blend all the flour, and make it an even consistency 
throughout. Sprinkle a little dry flour oyer the top to 
prevent its drying ; cover the pan with a cloth, and set 
it near the fire to rise for two hours. The whole secret 
of bread making lies in hitting the happy medium. 
The heat must not be too great, or . you will kill the 
yeast plant; neither too cold, or it will not work. 
If over kneaded, some of the carbonic acid gas will 
escape ; if not kneaded sufficiently, it will be unevenly 
distributed, and the loai iu!!l oi W^\uta*\xi w&& uart 
and close elsewhere. The water mxxsfc»\*i «xa*&3 \K$sh^ 



81 

and the pan must stand outside the fender, rather away 
from the fire, say in front of the oven. At the end of 
two hours it should have hecome twice its original 
size, and almost fill your pan ; if not, let it stand 
until it does, it will not harm. Then sprinkle 
some of your half lb. of flour round the sides, and with 
that clean it away from the pan. Flour your board, 
turn the dough upon it, and commence the process of 
kneading. This is more easily taught than described, as 
there is a certain knack in it only to be acquired by prac- 
tice. It must be done with the ball of the thumb and 
lower part of the hand. It is not so well to use your 
fists, they are heavier. Beginners invariably proceed to 
roll the dough like a roly-poly : that is wrong. As nearly 
as I can describe it, it consists of a continued repetition 
of two motions. Firstly, you place your fingers on the 
further side of the dough, and roll it half over towards 
you ; then, without moving your hands, press the wrist 
upon the mass, and roll it back again, giving it a down- 
ward push at the same time. If this is rightly done, the 
join will have disappeared. Then turn your dough 
round, so that the ends are now facing you, and repeat 
the process, always keeping the smooth surface on the 
board. It is a continual turning of sides to middle, or 
outside in. The remaining half lb. of flour has to be 
worked in, and must only be done by keeping the 
board well floured ; if any is sprinkled on the dough, it 
will not mix, but always remain dry. If you intend 
to make cottage loaves, more must be worked in, or the 
dough will not be stiff enough to stand. Close bread is 
produced by excessive kneading. Flour the tins upon or 
in which you bake the loaves ; if they are new, greasing 
them first helps it to adhere. As I shall bake this in a 
tin, I knead it quite free from dry flour on the outside, 
form it into a ball, place it in the tin, prick a hole or 
two on the top, and set it again by the fire to rise until 
the tin is two-thirds full. The oven for bread baking 
should be of a regularly decreasing \&»& % Tba <3&*- 
iashioned brick ovens answer "best. TVifc ^ro\fc>as&k*k. 



I 



82 

in them, then swept out, and the bread put in its place. 
The door is shut, and it is left a given time cooling 
gradually. When the bread is taken out, it is found 
perfectly cooked. With care an ordinary oven answers 
as well ; experience will soon teach you how to manage. 
A half-quartern loaf wants from an hour and a quarter 
to an hour and a half to bake ; and when done, it will 
sound hollow from all sides if rapped with the knuckles. 
It should be turned out, and stood bottom upwards 
until cold. Whole meal bread is made in the same way ; 
but as it is not so light, the loaves must be smaller. 
Larger batches of bread are made by setting the sponge 
overnight ; the yeast, with a little water, is mixed in 
the centre of the flour, and left to work. Xext morning 
more water is added, the rest of the flour mixed in, 
and the whole kneaded together. The principle of un- 
fermented bread is to use with the flour an acid and an 
alkali, which, on combining, through the agency of the 
water, give off carbonic acid gas. Hydrochloric acid 
and bicarbonate of soda will do it ; so will tartaric acid 
and carbonate of soda. Various mixtures of this sort 
are sold under the name of baking powders. We gene- 
rally prepare our own, as we then know it is pure 
Equal measures (not weights) of ground rice, tartaric 
acid, and carbonate of soda, passed through a wire 
sieve together two or three times — put a tea-spoonful 
into one lb. of flour, and you make patent self- 
raising flour at once. Dr. Dauglish entered a 
patent for making unfermented bread by introducing 
carbonic acid gas at the time of mixing. The 
flour is put into a large cylindrical trough made 
of iron, with revolving arms down the centre. The 
water, strongly charged with gas is pumped into 
it from another vessel, the whole is well mixed 
and dropped at the other end straight into tins, and 
carried to the oven. This is called aerated bread. 
It is particularly wholesome and pure, and much used in 
many of our large institutions. The fact of its not 
being touched at all by nanAis &fct^\>Tfc^mm^^a&as«u 



83 

In kneading large batches of bread bakers rise their 
feet. Unfermented bread is useful if wanted hot for 
breakfast, for families who are fond of new bread, and 
where yeast is not obtainable. The loaves should 
never be large, half lb. of flour is the outside. It is 
quickly made and must be baked immediately, baking 
powder loses its virtue after being wetted if not put 
into the oven at once. A glass of sherbert will illustrate 
this, you all know it looses its effervescence in a few 
minutes, and those bubbles when in the dough are what 
we depend upon for making the bread light. The gas 
from them escapes if not set at once by heat. Take 
half a lb. of flour, add to it half a tea-spoonful of baking 
powder (fill one and level it off with your finger), 
and mix it with a gill of cold water, to a stiff 
dough which does not require kneading. Salt 
destroys the action of the baking powder, besides 
being unnecessary, as some is produced by the combina- 
tion of the acid and alkali. Cut off one third of your 
dough and roll each piece into a round ball free from 
cracks, place the smaller on the top and press your first 
finger into the centre. Stand this on a floured tray 
in a good oven for twenty minutes or half an hour. 
Home made bread keeps fresh longer than bakers' and 
is not so harsh. It may be useful to you to know that 
a loaf of stale bread is made new again and most 
delicious, by being slightly soaked in water or milk, and 
then stood in a sharp oven for a quarter of an hour. 
The analysis of stale bread shows that it contains 
the same quantity of water as new. 

Milk Rolls are nice for breakfast and dinner, and also 
to split open and eat buttered hot. Rub two ozs. of 
butter into one lb. of self-raising flour, as for pastry, 
and mix it with enough milk to make a dough — about 
half a pint. Divide it into eight, and form them into 
balls with a cross slit upon the top, or, better still, 
form the whole into a long roll and cwfc ft> y&. wdassfc^- 
The reason for preferring this is t^afc cofc. «*03&»rw& ^*%. 
moat Being of the nature oi \neaA, ftfirat ^ wrc *&m* «s^ 



84 

bake them in a good oven for twenty minutes ; when 
they have been in fifteen, brush them over with milk 
to give a slight glaze. Half an ounce of sugar can be 
added to them for those who like sweet bread. 

Cakes are admittedly unwholesome ; thej- have been 

defined as an effectual waj' of spoiling good material. 

Currants are a small grape sold by the natives of 

Corinth as a dye, they are never digested, neither are the 

skins of raisins ; sultanas are the best fruit ; but the 

plainer cakes are the better, such as sponge and Madeira, 

because they contain no fruit and scarcely any baked 

butter. Candied peel should always be very finely 

shred or cut into thin flakes, then it need not be 

chopped, and you can find large looking pieces which 

are yet tolerably digestible. For a plain plum cake 

you will need half lb. flour, quarter lb. fruit, two ozs. 

sugar, two ozs. clarified fat, half a tea-spoonful of baking 

powder, one egg, and nearly a gill of milk. Grease 

your cake tin thoroughly with clarified fat, it must be 

perfectly dry first, if not, wipe it out with flour. Rub 

the two ozs. of fat lightly into the flour, if you afford 

yourself butter it will be richer, though, I can assure 

you, the fat is not distinguishable. Kitchen raisins 

want stoning and chopping small, currants should be 

washed when you buy them and dried in the air, the 

oven takes all the sweetness out, then, previous to use, 

rub them with some flour in a cloth shaking them 

about from place to place. The stalks adhere to the 

cloth and the dirt to the flour. It is an expeditious 

way of cleaning them. By dropping them on to 

a plate you can soon ascertain that there are no stones 

amongst them, they would give a sharp click. As with 

puddings, mix all your dry ingredients together before 

wetting them. Break your egg and beat it with 

nearly all the milk, not quite, lest it should be too much ; 

cakes mixed too wet are invariably heavy, the fruit 

and sugar go to the bottom. Now mix the whole 

with your hand ; it should be quite aiift. Turn it into 

rour tin and bake it immediately, \&a \stsfo&> \a> *. 



85 

good oven at first and slower by degrees, as cakes want 
a long " soaking " to cook them through, the longer, in 
proportion to their richness. Prom one hour to one 
<ind a quarter should be sufficient. This can be 
enriched by using twice as much butter, adding two 
ozs. of candied peel, two ozs. of sugar and another egg. 
Some people are fond of a dough cake, it is easily made. 
Half a quartern of dough, half lb. of sugar, quarter lb. 
of currants, quarter lb. butter and two eggs. Put all 
the ingredients together in a basin and continue beating 
them well with the hand until thoroughly mixed. Then 
let it rise, as bread does, it will take about an hour or 
rather more to bake. Some people imagine that the 
more eggs they put into the cake the lighter it will be ; 
it is a mistake, unless they correspondingly increase 
the amount of butter ; eggs bind as well as lighten. 
A more wholesome cake can be made with seeds — ten 
oz. of flour, two ozs. clarified fat, two ozs. sugar, one 
egg, half gill of milk, one tea-spoonful of carroway seeds, 
and the same of baking powder. Make it like the plum 
cake, by rubbing the fat lightly in first, then adding 
sugar, seeds, baking powder, and lastly, beating the 
egg up with the milk and mixing the whole. It takes 
rather less time to bake as there is no fruit in it — about 
three-quarters of an hour in a greased tin. A favourite 
way of testing whether cakes are done is to run a 
knife into them, if it comes out clean, they are. I 
do not recommend it, it is apt to make them heavy. 
The last place a cake cooks is on the top, if therefore 
you press lightly with your finger, you can generally 
tell whether it is firm, and the smell alone ought to be 
sufficient. The seed cake is delicious with the sub- 
stitution of two ozs. of shreded citron peel for the 
carroways. The ground seeds are the most wholsome 
to use, but they spoil the colour of the cake. The 
best flour, that is, the whitest and most starchy, always 
makes the lightest cakes. Egg powders are only coloured 
baking powder, so that they do not va^Vg W\a tos^mSsk- 
ment of an egg though they may Vfca \ugt&&&£» . 



86 

Half a pound of flour, quarter lb. of currants, quarter 
lb. sugar, quarter lb. clarified fat or butter, two ozs. of 
peel, one egg, quarter gill of milk, and one tea-spoonful 
of baking powder make capital little cakes for tea, 
called Bock Cakes ; or tbe mixture may be baked all 
together, and is a good plum cake. They must be made 
even stiffer than the others. I prefer to use two eggs 
and no milk. You will find it gives them an extremely 
short taste to make the butter warm, and so add 
it to the flour instead of rubbing it in. Grease 
a flat baking tin, take up small portions of the 
mixture between two forks and set the rough little 
heaps on your tin quite an inch and a half apart. 
They want ten minutes in a very quick oven, and 
the great difficulty with them is the baking. A 
slow oven allows them to spread and lose their rocky 
appearance ; too quick a one scorches them. like all 
cakes when done they should be stood wrong way up 
upon a sieve or cane-bottomed chair to let the steam 
escape from all sides. There are, of course, numbers 
of other cakes, but they are nearly all made in the same 
way ; in very rich ones the butter is sometimes creamed 
first by being beaten with the hand, and then the dry 
ingredients are worked into it ; the whites of the eggs 
also are occasionally whipped separately to make them 
lighter. 

Lastly, I shall make some gingerbread nuts. One lb. 
flour, quarter lb. butter, half lb. treacle, and half oz. 
ground ginger. They want twenty minutes in a moderate 
oven. No baking powder or even soda must be added 
or they will be soft and crack ; nuts should be hard. 
Melt the butter first, then heat the treacle with it, and 
mind you do not make hard-bake. Put the flour and 
ginger into a basin, and when the butter and treacle are 
quite hot, stir them well in with a wooden spoon. It is 
too hot for your hands at first, but as soon as you can, 
put them in and knead it very thoroughly together, till 
all dry flour has disappeared. Take up a piece the 
size of a walnut and roll it betrween ^iSaft ^i\xas> ol ^mi 



87 

hands until perfectly free from cracks. Continue doing 
this as fast as you can until all the mixture is used up. 
You ought to make twenty-four, if you have fewer they 
will be too large to cook properly and remain soft in 
the middle. They must be baked on greased tins one 
inch apart. If the mixture is allowed to cool, you 
cannot roll them smooth. In winter, stand the basin 
over a saucepan of warm water, and take care that the 
butter and treacle are very hot before mixing. 

I will conclude this lesson with a recipe for ginger- 
bread, which I know to be good. 10 ozs. flour, quarter 
lb. brown sugar, quarter lb. treacle, two ozs. butter, 
one oz. candied peel, one salt- spoonful of carbonate of 
soda, three-quarters of an oz. ground ginger, one egg and 
little milk. The butter is to be rubbed into the flour, 
all the dry ingredients put together, the egg beaten 
with the milk and treacle, and the whole mixed together. 
It must be baked in a Yorkshire pudding tin, well 
greased, for about three-quarters of an hour. 



TENTH LESSON. 



COOKERY FOR THE SICK AND CONVALESCENT. 

I do not pretend to teach you when to give the differ- 
ent preparations I am about to make, that, the doctor 
must decide ; food is of almost more importance to 
the sick person than physic, and, if given at the 
wrong time, as harmful as a dose of wrong medicine. 
For instance, in recovering from inflammatory com- 
plaints, such as scarlet fever, mutton broth should 
be taken ; after congestive illnesses, such as measles 
or small-pox, beef -tea ; and Dr. Ridge says, that a 
mistake in giving a basin of mutton broth has even 
cost a life ! I started this course with mentioning 
that cleanliness is one of the cardinal virtues of a 
good cook, and if it is bo in geuer^ w$Kes\%ofc» "S& 
doubly important when preparing m^^v&% ^^ ^ 5 ®^ 



88 

person, since their palate is much more keen and 
ready to detect anything disagreeable. Perfect fresh- 
ness is another essential. Never make at one 
time more than will be consumed in four and twenty 
hours, and never keep food in the invalid's room, its 
atmosphere is scarcely suitable for a pantry. A good 
nurse will always have a kettle of water boiling, and 
if anyhow possible, keep all her cooking out of the 
room. It wearies the patient to watch the preparation, 
minutes seem doubly long when you have to wait, 
and by the time the food is ready all taste for it has 
gone. I must give you one more caution, which, how- 
ever, ought not to be necessary : never let the 3ick 
person see you taste the food, and above all never 
put the spoon back into it. When ill we are very 
fanciful. Of all the branches of cookery this is per- 
haps the most neglected. Doctors are often in despair 
at the nurse's inability to make even mutton broth or 
beef-tea decently, and when they form the staple article 
of any one's diet, it is of the greatest consequence 
they should contain the largest amount of nourish- 
ment capable of extraction from the meat, and in ita 
most digestible form, since it is quite possible to draw 
the goodness out and then spoil it by over cooking. 
I hope you will not have forgotten what I told you in 
your first lesson about the action of heat upon the 
component parts of meat, it will help you to distinguish 
the difference between badly and well made beef tea 
If at all times the true object of cookery is to commence 
the operation of digestion, and present the food in its 
most easily digested form, it is surely far more important 
to do so when the recipient is weak and ill. It has been 
said every physician has his own way of making beef 
tea, and really it seems true, they are so numerous ; I 
shall show you the three best. The most juicy and 
inferior parts of the buttock yield the richest tea, not 
the leg or shin as was formerly supposed, they do 
excellently well for soup making •, \s\& Itom \?aa large 
amount of sinew and gristle in Vtaem teool^. ^&.\\r&\% 



89 

extracted, which is unnecessary in an invalid's diet, 
except when they are recovering and the stomach is 
able to do more work. I want to teach you to prepare 
it for people who are so bad they can only just 
swallow ; then anything which gives the digestive 
organs extra work is a mistake and should be avoided. 
Steaks from the rump are at the head of the list, but 
almost equally good and less expensive are those from 
the buttock and thick flank ; if the patient is not despe- 
rately bad, any lean juicy part free from fat and 
gristle can be used. Shred the meat very finely 
(by this time you know that to shred is to cut in 
extremely thin slices across the grain), and lay it in 
an equal quantity of cold water, half a pound in half a 
pint, with a little salt if the doctor allows it ; for even 
that must not be added without permission ; in some 
cases it acts as an intense irritant and aggravates the 
malady. Whichever way you make your beef tea the 
meat should always soak first in cold water, since the 
whole of the albumen it contains, as well as the juice, is 
thus extracted. A few drops of hydrocloric acid will 
assist the process and also draw out the kreatine and 
kreatinine, two substances much resembling quinine; oc- 
casionally claret is substituted for the acid and sometimes 
lemon juice. Onions should never be allowed. If you have 
time, a verv excellent beef tea can be made thus : Shred 
the meat and soak it twenty minutes or half an hour in 
its own weight of water (two tablespoonfuls of a liquid 
go to the ounce since you cannot heap them), then pour 
it into a Nottingham jar and cover it most securely, 
with the lid and strong brown paper, or a paste of flour 
and water. Stand this in a saucepan of boiling water 
for three hours. By cooking it in this way it never 
boils, and consequently the albumen and fibrine are not 
difficult of digestion. The jar may also be stood in a 
slow oven, but it takes rather longer, about four hours, 
and is often too savoury for a delicate palate. When done 
it should be stirred once or twice, an& \ta«&.^rox«&. ^ 
against the lid, not strained, \rtnc\i wsv&& xctass^^^ft 



90 

brown particles. In spite of your care there may be a 
little fat upon the top, which must be removed when 
cold, or at once absorbed by soft paper drawn over the 
surface. Some people have an idea that we are 
burdening the invalid's stomach by the addition of 
water to the beef, they would give the simple essence, 
but it is found that the strong meaty flavour is generally 
repulsive, and that tea is easier of digestion. To make 
beef essence shred your meat, put it in the jar 
without any water, and stand it in a saucepan of 
boiling water for three hours; the liquid you can 
strain off is the extracted juice. Both veal and 
chicken tea should be made like this beef tea. The 
flesh of fowls contains even more kreatine than beef, 
and though it increases the expense considerably, only 
the flesh should be used. If you are ordered to give 
beef tea at once, and have none at hand, some can 
be made in half an hour, containing a surprisingly 
large amount of nourishment. Shred your beef 
finely and soak it in its own weight of water, with 
a few drops of acid or claret if admissible, for 
twenty minutes, then turn it into a saucepan and 
simmer very gently indeed for five. You will 
find, on pouring it off against the lid, a rich looking 
tea with a good flavour of the meat. In all beef 
tea making be careful that it does not boil, the heat 
should never be greater than 165° at the outside ; meat 
cooks sufficiently at that point. Some invalids have a 
fancy for their beef tea cold, and like it stiff in the form 
of jelly. I would suggest the best way of making 
it so is to soak the proper quantity of refined isinglass 
in a little drop of cold water, (two tablespoonfuls will 
swell an ounce sufficient to stiffen one quart of beef 
tea), and stirring it in while hot, it dissolves 
immediately. As isinglass is the purest form of 
gelatine, it is often given to convalescents ; a little 
may be dissolved in any of their warm drinks. I 
should recommend your procuring that which has been 
refined by an English maker •, tnsfc kom^\\&*\^>2kwu^ 



91 

thought so much of, is not quite pure, it contains some of 
the tissue of the sturgeon's bladder, and, being sold loose, 
can be adulterated by the admixture of inferior sorts. 
Perhaps the most valuable beef tea is that known as 
cold infusion of beef, or raw beef tea. It is particularly 
useful in cases of diarrhoea, when nothing can be re- 
tained in the stomach, in typhoid fever, peritonitis, 
and for babies cutting their teeth. As it decomposes 
very rapidly I would not advise your making more 
than enough for the twelve hours ; in the height 
of summer even less. Shred the meat as before, and 
soak it in an equal quantity of water for two hours, 
then strain it off without cooking in any way. The 
liquid will be bright red and the meat white and taste- 
less, it has parted with all its nourishment, the albumen, 
juices, kreatine and some fibrine. If the look of it is 
objected to, disguise it by. giving it in a coloured glass, 
and if your patient is not allowed anything cold, as is 
sometimes the case, warm it to 100°, no more ; the 
the albumen would begin to coagulate at 105°. The 
taste of this beef tea is precisely the same as of that 
which has been simmered. Just to prove to you the 
amount of goodness this contains and the mistake made 
in boiling beef tea, I will bring it to the boil. At 
present it is a pure liquid, not quite clear, but still liquid. 
As it warms you begin to see little white threads, this 
is the albumen which is completely coagulated at 140°, 
at 150° to 158° the colour of the whole begins to change 
from red to brown, and at 212° the liquid is colourless 
with brown particles floating in it. We have hardened 
the albumen and fibrine and separated them from the 
fluid. If strained through muslin quite half the nourish- 
ment is lost. I hope this little experiment will be 
sufficient to show you how extremely unwise it is to 
boil beef tea. 

Mutton broth requires even a longer time, it is best 
to make it the day before, a large quantity of fat is 
thrown up, which cans be more eas\3L^ u^^&ssPL^g^ 
taken off when cold. The scrag eiisi oi ^tafc -asa^S^Hfea 



92 

most suitable part to use. Gut it into small pieces, 
removing as much fat as you can, and put it into a 
saucepan with salt and the same allowance of cold 
water as for soup, one pint to the lb. and one pint over, 
let it simmer very gently for four or five hours. It 
must be skimmed occasionally, especially just at first, 
when the scum rises most plentifully. Strain it 
through a coarse hair sieve, the meat can, as a matter 
of economj T , be eaten by people in health with a little 
parsley and butter sauce. Next day finish it by re- 
moving the fat and warming it. If it is ordered 
thickened, wash one oz. of Carolina rice and boil it in 
one quart for half an hour, or mix one table-spoonful 
of ground rice, cornflour, or arrowroot with enough 
cold water, and stir it in when boiling, let it simmer 
two minutes and then serve. It makes an excellent 
luncheon dish with the meat in neat looking pieces, 
the rice, some vegetables cut in dice, and one table- 
spoonful of chopped parsley stirred into it in the tureen. 
I shall next make a simple Invalid Pudding, with 
three dessert-spoonfuls of chopped suet, three of flour, 
three of bread crumbs, three of sugar, thee of milk and 
an egg. This must only be given during convalescence. 
It is a great desideratum in a sick person's diet to pro- 
duce variety, and if carefully and lightly prepared it is 
somewhat like sponge cake (at the same time it can be 
made very nasty), and a change from the everlasting 
milk puddings, upon which you have already had a 
lesson. Use mutton suet, it is lighter of digestion 
than beef, and chop it exceedingly fine ; castor sugar 
also is better than moist. Put the dry ingredients 
together in a basin, beat the egg with the milk, and mix 
it lightly with your hand. Turn it into a carefully 
greased pudding basin, and cover it with a piece of 
whitey-brown paper well buttered. This is to be 
steamed for an hour, the basin must stand in a saucepan 
containing boiling water to the depth of an inch, the 
paper must not come so low down as to touch it, and 
must be buttered to prevent \to& diorga *ft sterasa. <*«*. 



93 

densed 6n the lid from breaking through in falling, we 
do not want it watery. A cloth is quite unnecessary 
in steaming puddings. They are always lighter if 
cooked in this way, there is nothing to resist their 
rising, but they take a little while longer. This may 
be served with a boiled custard round it, that is quite 
harmless for an invalid. 

Both Iceland and Irish moss can be boiled to a 
jelly. The former is a lichen, the latter a seaweed 
Fresh or carraigeen moss contains iodine, and, made 
into a drink, is much taken by consumptive people 
and those with weak chests. Iceland moss is inte- 
resting as having formed the sole support of our Arctic 
voyagers. They are both very nutritive articles of 
food, and should both be washed and soaked previous 
to cooking. If Iceland Moss has a small pinch of 
carbonate of soda in the water while soaking, the un- 
pleasantly bitter taste is destroyed. Boil one oz. of 
either in one quart of water for 5 or 6 hours to make 
a jelly ; for one or two, if it is only required as a drink. 
It is exceedingly nasty, but can be made less so by the 
addition of lemon juice and wine. It can also be 
boiled in milk for a jelly. A far nicer beverage is 
Lemonade. In some cases, fevers for example, nearly 
all the patient wants are refreshing drinks, and it is 
well to have a good variety. Two lemons will make a 
pint with one oz. of lump sugar. Peel them very thinly. 
The white pith imparts a bitter taste ; use the rind of 
one only, the other can be saved for flavouring pud- 
dings ; rub the lumps of sugar well over the surface of 
the fruit, to extract the essential oil that remains in 
the pores of the skin, squeeze the juice of both into a jug, 
(a wooden spoon pressed into the fruit is a capital lemon 
squeezer), put to it the sugar and rind, and pour over 
it one pint of boiling water. This, like all hot infusions, 
must be closely covered until cold. You will think of 
this, if you remember that the best coffee pots are those 
where there is no escape for the wo"ia».,Sfc»\&*^w»^ 
Barour Orangeade is made \\ke \sciqta&a "^rfifc. ^ 



94 

oranges and the juice of a lemon, to give it piquancy. 
Another very refreshing drink in hot "weather, for 
people in health as well as invalids, is Apple water. 
Select six sharp and juicy apples, peel, core and slice 
them into a jug, add half oz. of lump sugar, the rind of 
half a lemon, one quart of boiling water, and cover it 
up until cold. This must not be taken for too many 
days consecutively, it is apt to produce diarrhoea. 
Never let infusions remain too long with the sub- 
stance in them, pour them off into a fresh jug for 
use. Decoctions, which are made by boiling anything 
in fluid, should be strained while hot, an infusion is 
made by soaking in either hot or cold liquid, and the 
substance macerated should not be allowed to remain 
in above a given time. Having shown you a drink 
likely to produce diarrhoea, you shall now have one 
calculated to cure it — rice water. Por this, you boil 
two oz. of Carolina rice (the best for this purpose, as it 
is most starchy) with one inch of cinnamon stick in 
one quart of water for an hour. You must first wash 
the rice in several cold waters, most of these grains are 
dirty. When boiled, strain it into a jug, and don't 
sweeten it or you will destroy its value for this purpose. 
Stir it now and then as it cools, or it will stiffen into 
jelly. This is a very safe drink for children, in summer, 
and in hot climates. The purple colour is due to the 
cinnamon, which is not only used for flavoring, it is 
a stomachic, and has a distinct medicinal value. A still 
more rapid and certain cure for diarrhoea, is one des- 
sert-spoonful of raw arrowroot, one of brandy mixed 
with two of water, and drank uncooked. Barley water 
is a most nourishing drink, it is sufficient to sustain 
life, and from its exceedingly clean taste upon the 
tongue, it is a favourite with invalids. It is much 
ordered for those suffering from gout. It can be made 
either thick or clear, according as to whether it is a 
decoction or infusion. Por the thick, boil two oz. in 
one quart of water, with a small ign&Gfe oi kmou rind, 
for two hours. Strain it oft, and co^ret \a& «A&. "^<s* 



95 

the clear, pour upon the same quantity, and the rind 
of half a lemon, one quart of boiling water, cover and 
strain when cold. Sweeten both to taste. The same 
barley can be used a second time, and is even better. 
Bran tea is made like ordinary tea exactly, with three 
table-spoonfuls of middling sized bran to the quart, and 
a little piece of lemon peel. Coarse bran is too greasy. 
It is a soothing drink for hoarseness of the chest and 
throat. Let it stand in the pot five minutes to draw, 
then pour it out, adding butter and sugar or honey. 
A very general English drink in the summer, and one 
invariably badly made, is toast and water. To begin 
with, crust should always be used for it, not crumb, 
which soon turns sour ; it should be toasted very brown, 
and plunged into the water, not the water poured upon 
it, which breaks it up and makes it thick ; and the 
water should be cold and fresh, neither boiled nor 
boiling. It may be filtered if you please, but it is the 
greatest possible mistake to boil water for drinking, it 
loses all its gases, and is insipid and fiat. Let your 
toast remain soaking, until the liquid is the color of 
sherry, and then pour it off. A little lemon rind with 
it, and even a squeeze of juice, makes it more refresh- 
ing. Perhaps instruction in the art of making Gruel 
is more needed than anything; at least, to judge 
from the complaints made of it on all sides, and 
yet it is so simple. If prepared from Embden groats, 
boil one table-spoonful of them in one pint of water for 
an hour, then strain it, and you will have a tolerably 
thin gruel, of a delicate flavour. Patent groats are more 
in favour just now, it is the same grain (oats) ground to 
powder, fine oatmeal is almost as good for the purpose. 
With them you can make a basin of gruel in ten 
minutes. Put one pint of water on to boil, mix one 
dessert-spoonful of groats with enough cold water, and 
when boiling pour it in, let it cook for ten minutes, and 
it is done. Those who like it thick, would \k&e t^<& 
dessert-spoonfuls to the pint. Aa Sto \» a. ^^ssc&r»0*» 
should be taken in bed, and ii iox a, eo\&, ^n^ *. ^\sfc» 



96 

of butter, a spoonful of moist sugar, and half a glass of 
rum in it. Barley meal also makes a delicious gruel. 
Another cure for a cold is treacle posset, or white 
wine whey. Heat half pint of milk, and when in 
the act of boiling, pour in it for the former, one gill of 
treacle, for the latter a glass of sherry, cowslip, or any 
home made wine. The milk instantly curdles. It 
must stand for ten minutes, and then be strained 
through muslin, which separates the curd ; the whey 
must be drunk hot, the curds are difficult to digest 
French whey is produced by curdling the milk with 
half a wine glassful of lemon juice ; this and the white 
wine whey require sweetening. A very foolish practice 
is to beat up eggs with brandy, the alcohol coagulates 
the albumen at once, as you may easily prove by trying 
with a little in a wine glass ; it would be much wiser 
to use only water or milk, eggs are more digestible 
with something added. They should be beaten with a 
fork, for about two minutes, and then strained to re- 
move the tread ; few things are more revolting than to 
feel it in your mouth, it would turn an invalid com- 
pletely against them. For a cup of arrowroot, mix 
one dessert -spoonful smoothly into a little cold milk, 
then pour it into half a pint of boiling, and cook it for 
fully two minutes, stirring all the while. It is a com- 
mon error to suppose that pouring the boiling milk upon 
the arrowroot is sufficient. It is not ; the starch grain* 
burst and thicken, it is true, but is not cooked, it must 
be distinctly boiled. Contrary to the general belief, 
arrowroot is not in the least nourishing, it is one of the 
purest forms of starch, procured from the roots of a 
plant of the arum tribe, and taken in this way, is 
valuable chiefly for the sake of the milk. Made simi- 
larly with water, it has wine added, and both must be 
sweetened to taste. Some people like cornflour better 
than arrowroot, they are made exactly alike . As a pleasant 
change now and then, this may be converted into a 
BouBer pudding by the addition oi Wo e^ga. Let it 
cool somewhat, and then stir in. flaa ^o\^^atwx^K^. 



97 

Beat the whites stiffly, and add them lightly, pour it 
into a greased pie dish, and bake it for fifteen minutes 
in a good oven. 



98 



HIGH CLASS COOKERY. 



FIRST LESSON. 



ROASTING, TRUSSING, BRAIZING, STEWING. 

In this course of lessons economy is not so much 
studied as the palate. You will notice that cream is 
frequently used, and as that is looked upon by some 
people as an extravagance, I shall not fail to point out 
where it could be omitted, or what could be 
substituted for it : still you must not be surprised at 
my using what seems a large quantity of butter, cream, 
and eggs, for I am now teaching you the best way of 
doing things, and you ought, by the help of what you 
have already learnt, to be able to modify the dishes' to 
your requirements without spoiling them. After all 
the best cooking is not really so expensive as people 
are apt to fancy, it requires rather extra care and 
thought than materials, and in the hands of a 
thoroughly good cook, more will not necessarily be 
used. I must again caution you to be very exact in all 
your weights and measures. The favourite way of 
working with too many cooks is by rule of thumb. 
They think it lowering to their dignity, and a confes- 
sion of weakness, to condescend to measure, and this is 
why they rarely make the same dish twice alike. One 
day it will be perfect, they have hit upon the right 
quantities; another, a complete failure. 
In order to teach you the mysfceriea oi \s^v&«vtv^Ww^ 



99 

a duck to roast. To ascertain that it is a young one, 
observe that there is more down than feathers under the 
wings and over the body generally; that the feathers at 
the tip of the wings pull out very easily, that the beak is 
soft, and that the web between the feet is smooth and 
tender. There is a two-fold object in trussing; the 
poulterer wishes to make the breast appear as large and 
plump as possible, but it should also be borne in mind, 
that the bird must stand evenly and firmly on the dish, 
or it will be difficult to carve. If you kill your own, pluck 
them while still warm, and be careful not to tear the 
skin. This has been drawn at the shop ; I shall be 
showing you directly how that operation is carried out 
on the fowl, and it is the same with all birds. Now 
pluck out all the remaining quills and the down, this 
latter is troublesome ; professional trussers wet their 
thumb and rub it out of the skin. Singe off what 
remains by holding it over the gas, or with a piece 
of lighted paper. In shops, the bird is generally floured 
next, to make the flesh look white. Turn the duck on 
its breast, and make a slit in the skin between the 
shoulders, take one side of it in your hand, and insert 
the thumb of the other beneath the neck, working round 
until it is quite separated from the skin, then cut it off 
near the body. Now divide the skin, leaving a flap of 
quite two inches hanging to the breast. Do not forget 
to take out the crop, a bag of thin skin in the front of 
the neck, wipe the body out with a cloth dipped in 
warm water, and it is ready for stuffing and trussing. 
In preparing two ducks for table, it is usual to stuff 
only one, as some people object to the seasoning. Boil 
a couple of good sized onions until tender, chop them 
up with half a dozen of sage leaves, soak a slice of crumb 
in the water in which they were cooked, squeeze it and 
beat it small with a fork, put all together, adding pepper 
and salt, and insert the mixture in the lower end of the 
bird. Make a slit in the apron, and thread the ^qxsese£% 
nose through it, which will cVo&fc XJhafc «vA^ ^ffcaSwet. 
staffed or no, this should \>e tame. ^\m^ *3&.^* 



100 

loose piece of skin at the neck behind the back. Ducks 
feet are esteemed a delicacy by some folks, and therefore 
are left on. The outer skin should be peeled from the feet 
of all birds. The common practice is to scorch it off by 
thrusting them between the bars of the grate ; a cleaner 
and equally quick way is to stand them in boiling water 
for a minute, when it will come off as readily as a glove. 
Never use a knife to it, or you may bare the bone by 
rubbing up two instead of one, take it up under the 
foot in your fingers, and it easily peels away. Cut the 
wings off at the first joint, they can be used in giblet 
pie or soup, but are never cooked on the bird. I have 
warned you against the use of skewers, they are slightly 
less objectionable in poultry, though even here we avoid 
them as much as possible. Give the back of your duck 
a good blow to break the back bone (breaking the breast 
bone is a favourite trick, but a foolish one; it spoils the 
best cuts of the breast,) doing this does not spoil the 
bird for either eating or carving, and enables you to get 
the legs better under the body. Take them up in your 
left hand, and the breast in your right, now force them 
well down to the board, and under the breast, holding 
them tightly there with your finger and thumb while 
you drive a skewer in the tip of the wing bone, the 
upper joint of the leg on one side, through the body and 
out at the corresponding joints on the other side. Next 
twist the feet between the legs and body, so that they 
spread fan-like on each side. Now take a piece of 
string, draw the lower joints of the legs closely together 
at the end of the breast bone, twist the string first 
round one and then the other to hold them securely, 
then give each end of it one turn round the points of 
the skewer, draw tightly up, and tie very firmly across 
the back. Bun the hook by which it hangs straight 
through the back bone at the upper end of the body. 
A duck or fowl will take three quarters of an hour to 
roast before a good fire.* It is not an uncommon 



For roasting, see "LesaonA. -£&%« \. 



101 

practice to wrap it (or a small joint either, particularly 
ii young meat, lamb for example) in buttered paper ; it 
prevents the outside from burning and drying up. Some 
dripping must be put in the tin to baste it with, and 
the paper removed at least a quarter of an hour before 
it is done. Hare cooked in sportsman's fashion m 
roasted in the skin, and very good it is ; in a general 
way, it is, or should be, basted with milk. The 
giblets are used for gravy, they will make it rich in 
flavour ; good cooking is shown in sauces and gravies 
as much as anything, and here you may observe that it 
costs nothing but the trouble of cleaning the giblets. 
Cut the gall bag and all that looks green carefully out of 
the liver, pull the neck from the head, and lay them in 
warm water. Scald the head and skin with boiling 
water, and immediately pluck them, cut off the bill, 
remove the eyes, and turn the skin inside out to be 
sure it is clean. Cut gently through the whitest part 
of the gizzard, and peel it off as you do the skin from 
an orange. The middle is a bag full of small stones 
used to digest the food, and if you make too deep a cut 
you will break into it. Trim off all fat and loose pieces 
of red skin, and, having washed the giblets thoroughly, 
put them all in half a pint of cold water with some 
salt to boil. When boiling, add half a small carrot, 
quarter of a turnip, one small onion, and a little piece 
of celery, and let it simmer all the while the duck is 
roasting. When it is time to dish up, draw out the 
skewer, untwist the string, and strain a little gravy 
into the dish, the rest should be served in a sauce-boat, 
and the giblets are just sufficiently cooked to go into a 
pie or be warmed up as a stew. The gravy may be 
thickened, if liked, with half an oz. of flour, mixed with 
cold water, poured in and boiled two minutes. Apple 
sauce is not a luxurious accompaniment, but is most 
wisely served with duck, it would disagree with you 
more were it not for the acid of the apple. Peel fotu\ 
core and slice them. Stew them, m *. wofiftr"^^ ^ 
pie-dish in the oven, with, enough. N*sfc«t to ^wwfr> 



102 

their burning and a table-spoonful of moist sugar, 
until reduced to a smooth pulp, stirring occasionally. 
They will take about as long as the duck does to 
roast. 

Drawing poultry is not nearly so revolting an opera- 
tion as you are apt to imagine. When done by novices 
I admit it is disgusting, but you will soon acquire the 
knack of drawing all out at once, and it is over in a 
few minutes. You may think it unnecessary to learn 
this, but it is not, even if you only have to direct others. 
I remember a friend telling me how their Christmas 
dinner was spoilt by the ignorance of a cook. The carver 
wished to serve some stuffing, and found only the crop 
full of the turkey's food ! Except having been plucked, 
this fowl has had nothing done to it. First make a 
slit, as we did in the neck of the duck, between the 
shoulders, and in the same way remove head, neck, and 
crop, leaving a loose flap of skin. Now, insert your first 
finger at this end, and, keeping it quite close to the car- 
case of the bird, work it round, breaking as you go all 
ligaments you come across, so that the contents are free. 
If you carelessly force your finger into the midst you 
will tear the liver and may break the gall bag, making 
the giblets bitter. Nothing but the crop comes out at 
this end. Make as small a slit as you can at the other, 
just above the parson's nose, put in your finger and 
loosen in the same way. Now take hold of the gizzard, 
and if it has been well done, in pulling that out you 
bring everything else as one mass. Look through to 
see that it is clear, and wipe it out with a damp cloth. 
Remow all the stumps and singe the hair, taking special 
care not to blacken the fowl by so doing. The sailor's 
way of plucking birds is to plunge them under boiling 
water, which loosens the feathers so that they come out 
easily, but it has the disadvantage of making the flesh 
taste sodden. You can tell a young one principally by 
the feet, the claws should bend backwards without 
cracking, and there should be neither spur nor corn 
upon the legs ; they \>egm to gtoro ^rVmbg. * ^saa ^L, 



103 

poulterers often cut them off, but it leaves a mark. It 
is not usual to stuff fowls; country people sometimes do. 
Use veal stuffing,* and put it where the crop would be. 
Trussing a chicken is a far more complicated matter than 
a duck. I will first show it you for roasting, then for 
boiling, the two are quite different, though it is not un- 
common to find complete ignorance of the latter method. 
Thread a trussing needle with fine string, a skewer is 
not wanted at all, and would be very out of place in the 
saucepan, it gets in the way if you turn the fowl. 
Prepare your giblets, make a hole in the skin of each 
wing, put the liver through one and the gizzard the 
other. Twist the tops of the pinions backwards so 
that the tips are under the body. Scald and skin the 
feet, cut off the tops of the claws, place the fowl breast 
upwards, then force the legs well down upon the board, 
and into the sides of the body. Run your needle 
through the second wing joint into the upper joint 
of the leg, through the body and out at the corre- 
sponding joints upon the opposite side, draw it 
through, and turn the fowl on to the breast. Now 
fold over the loose piece of neck skin, and catch it up, 
feel for the mother-in-law's wing-bones, or sidesmen, 
they run parallel to the back bone, and on each side of 
it ; if you can pass your needle through these, in tighten- 
ing the string, you force up the other end of the bone 
and raise the breast ; lastly, the string must be drawn 
very tightly, and securely tied where you first started 
from. At the other end, run your needle into the 
back just below the "parson's nose," press the legs closely 
together, and pull the skin of the breast well over them 
at each side, take a stitch through it on one side, pass 
your needle from side to side under the legs, through 
the skin again to catch it down on the other side, 
and out at the back, where it must be tightly fastened. 
A more simple, but not so effective way is to pass the 
string through the cartilage at the bottom of the 

* Seep. 1. 



104 

breast bone, over tbe legs, behind the body, and tie 
it. The sinew at the first joint of the legs must be 
divided, or they will draw up upon the breast. Fowl 
takes the same time to roast as a duck, and gravy for 
it should be made in the same way. Bread sauce 
though very nice is going out of fashion. It is made 
by soaking one and a half oz. of fine bread crumbs in 
half a pint of milk for a quarter of an hour, then boiling it 
in a saucepan, well greased with butter, for 15 minutes 
with the addition of an onion (whole), 6 peppercorns, 
and a pinch of salt. When serving, pick out the onion 
and peppercorns, and if you afford it, add half a 
gill of cream. For a boiled fowl, the legs should be cut 
off at the first joint. Slip your finger in at the lower 
slit through the carcase till you reach the skin of the 
leg, which carefully loosen without tearing. Press 
the leg bones from you with your thumb, and draw the 
skin towards you at the same time with your ringers, 
so that the legs can be slipped underneath and inside 
the body ; you have literally drawn the skin quite off. 
The upper end of the bird is trussed as for roasting ; at 
this end, bend the parson's nose upwards into the body, 
run your needle through the tip of the breast bone, then 
through the sides, and tie it safely. Some cooks will 
boil a fowl in a floured cloth to keep it white ; greased 
paper answers as well, and enables you to cook it in the 
stock pot, and so save what goodness it may impart to 
the liquid. Tie it up like a parcel, and put it in when 
boiling* for three quarters of an hour. A large fowl 
may want one hour, but a spring chicken will cook in 
half an hour. When you take it up, if the liquor from 
the inside is red, it is not cooked enough. Whilst it is 
boiling make your egg sauce, one oz. of butter, half a 
pint of milk, one oz. of flour, two eggs, half a gill of 
cream, for which either substitute, one oz. of butter, or 
omit it altogether. This allowance of flour is unusually 
large, as it must be so thick as completely to coyer the 

* See roles for BoiYu&g, p. \fc. 



105 

fowl. Boil your eggs hard* and lay them in coid water. 
Melt the butter, mix the flour with it till like honey, 
add the milk, stir it till it boils, and let it cook two 
minutes. Divide your eggs, chop up the whites only, 
not too small, lest it should be mistaken for lumps in 
your sauce, and mix them in. Take up the fowl upon 
a plate that all moisture may drain away, draw out the 
strings, place it on a dish and carefully cover every 
part with the white sauce. Hold a wire sieve over the 
breast, place the yolks on the top, and rub them through 
with the back of a wooden spoon, so that the powder 
falls in a shower of gold upon the chicken's breast. 
This is a more effective way of making egg sauce, than 
chopping up the whole egg f and is suitable also for salt 
fish. 

Braizing is the most perfect way of cooking, for it 
is done by the action of steam, and therefore there is no 
danger of your hardening the meat by galloping it fast. 
It is savoury too ; for the joint should be raised out of 
the stock upon a bed of vegetables, the flavour of which 
passes into it. Birds or any piece of meat may be 
braized, the less fat the better ; veal is generally 
chosen ; it is an excellent way of using up the breast, 
but other parts will do as well. Braized joints are 
mostly boned, rolled, and stuffed. They are very suitable 
to serve cold. For three lbs. of breast of veal you must 
have a pint and a half of good second stock, t which 
you will learn to make next lesson, one large carrot, 
one turnip, one onion, one stick of celery, a bouquet 
garni, and some stuffing.:}: First prepare the meat by 
neatly cutting out the bones, lay the stuffing inside, 
roll it over, and sew it up with a few stitches ; don't 
tie it round with the string, the marks look unsightly 
when it is cooked. Scrape the carrots and cut them 
in slices one inch thick, peel the turnips, and do the 
same. From these, with a French vegetable cutter, 
stamp out pieces wherewith to garnish your disk \ thi 

*Seep. t See p. 109. \*fc»T>^- 



106 

cutter is shaped like a tube, if you have not one, the 
end of a wine funnel or a penny pea shooter will 
serve. You must have about a table-spoonful of each, 
and the pieces will do to flavour the glaze. Place 
the carrot and half the turnip at the bottom of your 
stew or braizing pan, pack the bones in too with the 
celery, whole onion, and bouquet garni, and upon the 
top of this bed lay the veal. Pour the stock round, and 
put over the whole a piece of greased kitchen paper cut 
to fit the saucepan, buttered side uppermost. And lastly, 
the lid ; it is most important none of the steam should 
escape. In a proper braizing pan the lid comes over 
the outside for greater security, and it is depressed in 
the centre sufficiently to hold hot charcoal ; for braizing 
should be done with heat above and heat below. I am 
teaching you how to manage without the proper appli- 
ances. This must now boil gently for one hour and a 
half ; you baste it occasionally by lifting the paper and 
pouring some of the stock over the meat. When it has 
had its time over the fire, remove the lid and the paper, 
and stand the pan with its contents in the oven to brown 
and finish ; here, too, it must be basted. It will depend 
upon the heat of your oven how long it will take ; it is 
best to allow half an hour. Boil the ornamental carrot 
for ten minutes in boiling water and salt, the turnips 
for five and strain them on to a hair sieve. Something 
green must be added, peas and green haricots, or 
scarlet runners cut in diamonds, these must be boiled 
with the lid off, the peas and haricots for twenty 
minutes, the beans for ten. When done and dry, 
put them all together in two table-spoonfuls of the 
gravy from your pan to warm through. By the time 
die meat is well browned the stock should have boiled 
away and reduced to about quarter of a pint of thick 
glaze. If it has not, keep the meat hot and boil it very 
rapidly over the fire with the lid off ; there should be 
only just enough to cover the meat and the surface of 
the dish. Draw out the string -which holds in the 
stuffing, strain your glaze over, «n& «£tvo%fe VJtA 



107 

macedoine or mixture of vegetables, in four little heaps 
round it. Be very particular that your glaze is not 
greasy, and if the meat is to be eaten cold, none will 
be wanted on the dish, so you may keep it until cool 
and then brush it over with an egg brush. If you 
have no second stock at hand, a thinner sort will do 
with a little gelatine added to stiffen it. 

Stewed steak is so frequently hard and unwhole- 
somely greased, that I am giving you a lesson upon it, 
although you have already had one on stewing. One 
lb. of rump steak, three quarters of a pint of stock, 
one carrot, half a turnip, one onion, a stick of celery, 
a bouquet garni, salt, pepper, one tablespoonful of flour, 
one oz. of butter, and one table-spoonful of ketchup, 
and it will take an hour to cook. This may strike 
some of you as too short a time, but remember 
that it is not the time, but the way you 
cook meat that softens it; longer would stew it 
to rags, but it does not follow that it would make the 
fibre more tender. Any stock will do for this purpose, 
or even water if you have none. First trim away 
all skin from the outside, it contracts with heat and 
draws up the meat, cut off also the fat, which is to be 
cooked separately so as not to make the gravy greasy, 
make the ounce of butter very hot in your saucepan, 
and lay the steak in to brown on both sides, in order 
to give the sauce a good colour. Cut the onion in rings, 
and as soon as the meat is coloured on one side turn it, 
and put the onion in to fry with it. Don't let the rings 
turn black, or the stew will taste disagreeably bitter ; 
as soon as they are nut brown, pour off the grease and 
add your vegetables, cut in slices, the herbs, seasoning 
and stock. Cover the saucepan very closely, and set it 
near the fire, where it will only gently simmer for three 
quarters of an hour. Then mix the flour with the 
ketchup, and stir it in. At the same time put the fat 
cut into small dice on a tin in the oven to bake, or 
in a frying pan over the fixe. TVxa ^«q$fc&ta& ^*as^ 
in the stewing, have parted wftb, «Xi VtaKv* ^Bstsas^"*^ 



108 

should not be served with the dish ; it is better to cafe 
from them beforehand some pieces for a garnish, and 
they thus serve the two purposes. Take a slice of 
carrot an inch thick, and cut the sides round smoothly, 
with a vegetable knife peel off a thin ribbon, lay tins 
on your board and shred it finely. Keep the point of 
your knife firmly on the board while you work the 
handle up and down, and with the other hand push the 
ribbon underneath, keeping the first joints of your fingers 
well against the blade so that you do not chop your nails. 
These strips must be cooked in boiling water and salt for 
five minutes; similar pieces from a block of turnip, 
cut in thin slices, take three minutes. In dishing up 
your steak, arrange small piles of these upon it 
alternately, with an atom of finely chopped parsley on 
the turnip, put the fat in the middle and strain 
the gravy round. Provided you have never allowed 
the heat to increase beyond 165°, the meat will 
be deliciously tender, and full of flavour. Half an apple 
sliced and stewed with it will ensure its being tender, 
even in hot weather, when the meat cannot be hung for 
long ; the malic acid in the fruit softens and decomposes 
the fibre, and you do not detect the flavour of apple 
in the dish. 



SECOND LESSON. 

SOUPS AND PUREES. 

Before learning to make soups it is necessary you 
should understand the manufacture of stock — that in- 
valuable ingredient in so many dishes. It is of five 
sorts : " white," " brown," "first," " second," and "fish 
stock." The latter is made with half mutton-broth 
and half the liquor in which a cod's head or any inferior 
part of fish has been boiled for three or four hours, 
with a carrot and parsley *, it ia the foundation of all 
^kh soups. The distinction. "tetaeen w \swj*rtL* *x& 



109 

"white " comes from using beef for the one and white 
meat, such as veal or rabbit, for the other. First stock 
is the first boiling of the meat and vegetables ; second 
stock is produced by putting them on again to boil in 
fresh water. The repeated cooking draws out more of 
the gelatine from the tissues and bones, so that second 
stock is always stiffer when cold than first ; hence, it 
is preferred for braizing, as you learnt last lesson, and 
also for jellies. Some housekeepers object very strongly 
to the purchase of stock-meat, others have it several 
times a week. For the best clear soup it is absolutely 
essential that you should make stock expressly ; for all 
others the boiling down of the bones and pieces of the 
household will suffice.* If it is wanted very dark in 
colour, the meat can be fried first, but pale soups are 
the fashion now-a-days. A very good coloured stock 
is made of half veal and half beef. Take two lbs. of 
shin of beef and two lbs. of knuckle of veal, two car- 
rots, one turnip, two leeks or one onion, half a head of 
celery, a bouquet garni, thirty peppercorns, and a des- 
sert-spoonful of salt. Cut the meat into pieces an inch 
square — the smaller it is the more chance you have of 
extracting the goodness, since there is a larger extent of 
surface exposed to the action of the water — remove all 
fat, break the bones and take out the marrow, then 
weigh meat and bone together and put them in a sauce- 
pan with salt and cold water, one pint to each lb. and 
one pint over, to allow for evaporation. It will have 
to simmer for six hours, and you will then have two 
quarts left. Bring it to the boil as slowly as you can ; 
you remember what I taught you in making beef-tea 
about the action of cold water upon meat. Just before 
it reaches boiling point,' skim it very carefully ; the 
more thoroughly you skim stock, and the more gently 
you boil it, the less difficulty you will have in clearing 
the soup, for it is the gelatine from the bones that 
thickens it principally, and that is most extracted 

* See lesson on Sowpa, ^. 3&« 



110 

at a great heat. When quite boiling put in your 
vegetables, properly prepared, and leave it to oook 
slowly. In the evening strain it into a basin through 
a hair sieve, and next day it will be a tolerably 
good jelly with a cake of cold fat upon the top. During 
its preparation you must watch that neither milk 
nor flour get in, or you will fail in clearing it 
Hefore using this stock all the fat must he taken off 
with an iron spoon, its surface and the sides of the 
basin carefully wiped with the corner of a cloth dipped 
in boiling water. To make it into Cleak Soup you want 
one carrot, half a turnip, one stick of celery, a bouquet 
garni, some salt, and one lb. of lean beef for every fae 
used to make the stock. I cannot tell you the propor- 
tion to the quantity of liquid ; it is not that that wants 
clearing, but the extract of the meat in it, and the less 
there is in bulk from the five lbs. the greater need 
of the one lb. to clear it, since it is much stronger; thin 
liquids are naturally the least trouble to clarify. This 
two quarts of stock will need three quarters of a lb. of 
lean beef very finely shred, as for beef tea, put into the 
saucepan with it and the vegetables, which are to 
freshen the flavour. If celery is out of season, use half a 
salt-spoonful of celery seed, tied in a piece of muslin. It 
is economical to cut the vegetables you intend to serve 
in the soup before you clear it, then the pieces can go 
in for flavouring. Clear soup is the foundation of 
many others. If your vegetables are cut in wafers, it 
is called " printaniere " ; if in cubes, "brunoise"; in 
olives, " nivernaise " ; in strips, like half a match, 
"julienne ;" and if peas, beans in diamonds, carrot, turnip, 
lettuce finely shred, and sprigs of cauliflower are float- 
ing in it, it is " jardiniere " ; with savory custard it is 
" soup royale," and so on. Of all the processes you 
learn in these lessons, soup clearing is the most difficult, 
because it is brilliant at one particular point — a minute 
later hopelessly thick ; great care and some experience 
are required. Put your stock, ^erfecfcly free from 
grease, your vegetables wa&\ie><\. c\e&si «xA qo&l to&£^ 



Ill 

and your shredded meat into a stew-pan over a quick 
fire. It is essential that the fire should be very quick 
to clear it well. Stir this with a whisk or iron spoon 
(the whisk is better because it separates the meat) 
until you see white scum or froth rising to the surface 
and just a little steam, then leave off at once; one 
grand mistake, and a very common one too, is to con- 
tinue stirring too long — you do not consequently notice 
that the soup has passed the right point, and is spoil- 
ing. Let it remain on the fire until it begins to bubble, 
at any point; it need not be all over or in the middle; 
then draw it gently on one side, place the lid over, 
leaving a crack for the steam to escape, and let it stand 
for twenty minutes. I would advise your arming 
yourself with a very bright spoon, silver if possible, 
and watching it carefully, taking up a little now and 
then from the sides and examining. At first it is 
thick, like the raw beef-tea, but browner. Then the 
liquid gradually gets clearer, and the pieces in it harder, 
until at the right moment the spoon shines through it 
brightly, and the brown particles are very distinct. The 
experiment with the raw beef-tea should help you to 
comprehend this, for the process is exactly the same. 
You remember how it was opaque before cooking, but 
became quite transparent when the albumen, which 
was suspended in it was hardened and separated ; so 
with jellies and this soup. Some people use albumen 
from another source ; white of egg for clearing their 
soups, but it should not be done as it completely 
destroys the flavour of the meat, whereas the lean beef 
adds to it. Don't attempt to skim your soup in clear- 
ing it, the more it throws up now the better, and above 
all things don't let the scum boil down again, it would 
thicken it irretrievably. Whilst it is standing prepare 
your cloth for straining it. Turn a chair topsy-turvy 
on the table and tie the corners of a very clean cloth 
to the four legs. Tammy or demet are the two best 
materials, being woollen they wiW. atarofo «c^ ^s»»Rk 
you may have accidentally left*, ia&av% ^Qa»»^ 



112 

flannel, or a tea cloth of a loose make. Run hot water 
through first to ensure its being quite clean, then when 
the twenty minutes are over, pour all the contents of your 
stew-pan upon the top. What runs into the basin the 
the first time will not be quite satisfactory, but if it ha* 
been well cleared, and is put through the second time 
slowly enough, a ladlcful at a time, it may not require 
passing again. It will not be hurt however often it 
goes through the cloth, it must do so several times if not 
bright at first. I have found it a good plan after the 
second straining to boil it up once sharply with a small 
lump of sugar, and then pour it through the niter in 
the cloth for the last time. French people never 
finish these soups without sugar, it brightens them. 
It is now ready to be finished off in any way you like; 
Your vegetables must each be boiled separately (the 
green ones with the lid off and a mite of sugar in the 
water), strained on to a sieve to drain, and then slipped 
into the soup at the last minute before it goes to table. 
For olive-shaped pieces you use a special cutter ; the 
cubes are cut with a knife, and for the wafers you 
peel a ribbon from the outside of a carrot, and with 
your French cutter stamp out some small rounds : 
turnip in the same way : and also the lightest green of the 
leek to give a variety in colour. For a Savoury 
Custard you beat the yolks of two eggs with half a gill 
of the stock, strain into a well greased cup and cover it 
with buttered paper. Stand the cup in a saucepan 
containing boiling water to the depth of one inch, and 
draw it off the fire. Let it stand so, with the lid on, 
until you feel the centre of the custard quite firm, then 
lift it carefully out and don't move it again until cold. 
All these cautions are to prevent its quackling or being 
honey-combed, there should not be a single hole, and in 
this way of cooking it you cannot get them ; if you try 
the quicker way " simmer it gently for fifteen minutes," 
they are nearly sure to come. When the custard is 
quite cold, turn it out of the cw£ and. cat away all 
the outside, which, being greasy , oasuMft >ofc M*fc&. ^kr& 



113 

the block left cut thin slices, and from these any fancy 
shapes you please, which, like the vegetables, must be 
slipped into the soup at the last minute. This custard 
is yellow ; a white one can be produced with only the 
white of egg and stock, a green one by colouring the 
white with spinach juice, and a red one by the addition 
of a little cochineal. Made ^ith beef-tea the Savoury 
Custard is a suitable dish for invalids, and not a bad 
way of getting them to take beef -tea when the fancy 
for it has gone. For " consommi" a richer form of 
clear soup, a fowl should be boiled down with the stock 
meat. On the continent, soups are far more general 
than in England, and rightly so ; we take our nourish- 
ment in a more solid form than is absolutely necessary ; 
two-thirds of the human body are water, and this wastes 
much more rapidly than anything else ; and though all 
our solid food contains it, still it is necessary we should 
have some in a liquid state. Water is the carrier to 
our system, all our food is dissolved, and by its agency 
conveyed to the different parts, and it is a wise plan to 
commence dinner with a plate of some light soup. 

Pttkee is the name given to any soup which is 
thickened by being passed through a sieve with the 
substance from which it has been made; Thus, a pure'e 
of shrimps, would be fish stock made into a thick soup . 
by having the shrimps passed through a wire sieve and 
added to it ; of asparagus, would be with the soft part 
of the vegetable pulped into it ; and so it is possible to 
make a pure'e of almost anything. Vegetables are 
generally selected, and if not actually alike, these soups 
are all made on the same principles. For a puree of 
artichokes called Jerusalem JSoup, you want two lbs. of 
artichokes, one and a half pint of white stock (second 
white stock will do), one stick of celery, one leek or 
small onion, pepper, salt, one oz. butter, and one gill 
of cream. This is to be made very quickly or it will be 
a grey soup instead of white, for artichokes change 
colour rapidly after being peeled "*m\e«& \us$» xxsAss* 
water. Wash, peel, and slice them, ^lasft*. ^sA <sofc»^ 



114 

also the celery, and only the white part of the led. 
Melt the butter, and lay in your vegetables to " sweat* 
with the lid on for five minutes, they must be shaken 
or stirred now and then that they do not discolour. 
Add your stock and seasoning, and boil it until the 
artichokes are quite soft, it will take about half an hour, 
and if you hurry this part of the process you double the 
trouble of passing them through the sieve. If you have 
it, use a tammy, if not, a hair sieve ; place it over a 
basin, the shallow side uppermost, and pour your soup 
upon it. Stand it now over the saucepan or another 
basin, while you rub the vegetable through with the 
back of a wooden spoon, using from time to time a 
little of the liquor to assist. Add the cream, bring just 
to the boil, and serve it with a plate of croutons, dice cut 
from the crumb of a loaf, and delicately fried in butter. 
As potatoes are not so watery a vegetable, one lb. of 
them would be sufficient for the same quantity of soup. 
For Green Pea soup, you must have one pint of peas, after 
they are shelled, and select two handfuls of the cleanest 
looking pods for thickening the soup. When peas first 
come in these are young and tender, and can be used 
quite as well as the peas which they thus economise. 
String them on each side, and remove the flinty lining 
by bending down sharply the end where the stalk grows, 
and then drawing it towards you. Boil the stock up 
first, then put in the peas and pods, and to keep them a 
good green, particularly when they first come in, cook 
with them a spinach leaf, some people like also a leaf 
or two of mint for flavouring. The lid must be left off 
the saucepan. Bub both the pods and peas through the 
sieve, and bring the soup again to the boil. You may 
very often have noticed soup at the top and all the 
thickening at the bottom of the tureen ; this is for want 
of what is called a liaison, and will always happen un- 
less it is made of something starchy, such as potatoes 
or tapioca. A liaison can be made of eggs, as 
you will see just now, or of arrowroot ; even common 
Hour will do, for it aim^ m&ro& «oms&s&n% ta bind 



115 

the soup so that it will support what it is thickened 
with. Mix three tea-spoonfuls of arrowroot with 
enough cold water to liquify it, and when the soup is 
quite boiling stir it in, let it cook for two minutes, then 
add the cream, and you will notice that the pea-meal is 
now evenly dispersed throughout. Some people use eggs 
in green pea soup ; but I recommend the arrowroot as 
equally effectual and more economical. If cream is 
objected to, omit it, and substitute half a pint of milk 
for the same quantity of stock; don't increase the butter, 
or there will be stars of grease upon the top of your 
soup. 

Tapioca Cream is the name of a very convenient and 
quickly made soup. You most likely have all the 
materials in the house ; it can be prepared in half an 
hour, and therefore could be easily added to a dinner if 
a friend dropped in unexpectedly. Any sort of stock 
can be used, first, second, brown, or white, the prefer- 
ence being decidedly given to white, as brown darkens 
the colour rather too much. A pint and a half of stock, 
two dessert-spoonfuls of crushed tapioca, the yolks of 
two eggs, half a gill of cream, pepper, and salt. Bring 
the stock to boiling point, then with your left hand 
sprinkle in the grain, stirring with the right or it will 
go to the bottom and cook in lumps. Add the seasoning, 
and in fifteen minutes the tapioca will be cooked, and 
have become completely transparent ; if not, you know 
it is not sufficiently boiled. Now draw the soup from 
the fire to cool a little, while you prepare the liaison. 
Beat the yolks of two eggs with the cream, then strain 
it (you remember this is done to keep out the tread), 
mix it into the soup, stirring carefully. If your soup is 
the least degree too hot when the liaison is added it will 
be entirely spoilt, the eggs will be partially cooked, 
curdled as it is called, and will lose their property of 
supporting the tapioca. The most critical point in the 
preparation of this soup is returning it to the fire and 
cooking the eggs, the raw taste oi ^YaOa. \a» ^««^ 
perceptible when this is omitted.. \i Sfc \*&s^ ""&» % ^ 



116 

rained, and yet it must be bo near boiling point that 
the eggs are cooked and thickened as in custard; if 
not, and you let it stand a minute, the egg and cream 
rise to the top, and all trace of the tapioea disappears, 
which is not as it should be, the object of the liaison 
being to make every spoonful exactly alike. 

Whole tapioca cannot be used for this soup, semolina 
and sago can, but hone of these grains are so suitable 
as the crushed tapioca, prepared by M. Groult. It cooks 
quickly, and is of such a gelatinous nature that it will 
act as a liaison itself, and is an agreeable addition 
to many soups. 



THIRD LESSON, 



entbees. 



Of these I can only give you four examples in on© 
lesson, for they take a long time to prepare. An entrk 
of fish is shown in your fifth lesson — lobster cutlets. 
Pish, flesh, or fowl, dressed in some fancy way, would 
constitute an entrie. Skill in the cooking and flavour- 
ing are, of course, essential, but success very largely 
depends upon the taste with which the dish is finished 
off and served. Erying is a favourite way of cooking 
entrSes, and one which I trust you will not find difficult 
after all 1 have said on the subject. 1 shall give you 
one example of it — Chicken Ckoqttettes. They are 
easy to make, and convenient also, since all but the 
actual cooking can be done in the early part of the day. 
You will require six ozs. of fowl (either boiled or 
roasted), two ozs. of lean ham, six button mushrooms, 
one oz. of flour, one oz. of butter, one gill of stock, half 
a gill of cream, half a tea-spoonful of lemon juice, 
pepper, salt, cayenne, one egg, some bread crumbs, and 
the use of frying fat. I say "use of the fat "pur- 
posely, for after irying fti* cxoqpsfttaa ^^f^\» 



117 

fully strained, and can then be used over and over 
again, as the actual waste is so slight as to be scarcely 
perceptible. Mince the fowl and ham, removing the 
skin, bone and fat ; peel the mushrooms from the edge 
to the centre, remove the stalks, and cut them up. 
You should not wash them, it destroys the flavour 
and makes them flabby, and the buttons not having 
opened, are sure not to be dirty, and are free from 
insects. When fresh ones are out of season, the cham- 
pignons sold in tins are an excellent substitute ; being 
not quite so strong in taste, you must use rather more. 
The complaint of most rissoles and croquettes is that they 
are so extremely dry, just like chips of wood. To 
remedy this we make what is called a " panada," a 
thick white sauce, into which the meat is stirred, and 
then allowed to cool ; when cold it is firm enough to 
form into shapes and fry — the hot fat liquifies the 
" panada " again, so that on cutting the croquette it is 
found full of creamy sauce. Melt the butter, mix the 
flour into it smoothly with a wooden spoon, add the 
stock, and bring it to the boil, stirring all the time ; 
now cook it very . thoroughly, until it leaves the sides 
of the stew-pan freely and clings to the spoon. If you 
fail in this, the croquettes will be a failure, for the 
panada will not be strong enough to hold them to- 
gether, they will burst in the fat, and hollow balls will 
be the result. Tou need not fear making it too stiff ; 
the cream and lemon juice have to be added next off 
the fire, and both these tend to make it thinner. 
Lastly, add the seasoning, mushrooms, and minced 
meat, stir them well in and spread the mixture upon a 
greased dish to stand aside and cool for at least two 
hours. Make some bread cnimbs by rubbing the crumb 
of a stale loaf through a wire sieve, and do not be stingy 
in the quantity, for it is not wasteful ; they will keep 
some days if in a dry place, and, like the fat, can be 
used several times, each time being again shakacL 
through the sieve to separate the egg Vta^V^*V^«*vNx^% 
they are rather nicer a day oi two o\^ iox *a ^srj ^* 



118 

staler they shrink, and are, consequently, finer. Fntst 
least two lbs. of fat in a deep pan and stand it on the 
stove to get hot. Oil is the best of all mediums for 
frying ; it attains a greater heat, without burning, than 
fat does ; at least, 100 deg. more, and the hotter yon 
can have it when your " fritture " goes in the more per- 
fect the " surprise," as the French say. Fresh butter 
is, of course, too expensive for general use ; against 
animal oil there is a strong prejudice ; though why 
neat's-foot oil should be objected to I cannot see ; horse 
oil is used in the fried-fish shops ; lard and clarified fat 
answer the purpose very well, the preference being 
always given to that which you have rendered down 
yourself. If your fat is once allowed to get over hot 
before you use it, you will notice that when cold the 
colour is dark, as dark as coffee, perhaps — it is burnt, 
and whatever is cooked by it is the hue of mahogany, 
instead of golden or nut-brown. Over-frying might, of 
course, bring about the same result, but when it is due 
to burnt fat- there is no help for it but to set it on one 
side and take fresh. As I have already told you, it will 
keep for an almost unlimited period if properly strained 
each time after using, the pieces left in it are those 
which go bad and spoil it, not the fat itself.* "We cover 
jams and potted meats with fat, to keep them. 

To return to the Croquettes : when the mixture is 
cold you will find it comparatively solid, and easy to 
form into shape. Flour your board and hands slightly, 
place your crumbs on a sheet of paper, by your side, 
beat an egg upon a plate, and have a frying-baaket 
near. Take portions of the mixture about the sice of 
a tangerine orange, and roll them on your board into a 
ball, or like the cork of a bottle. Dip each in the egg; 
which must cover every part perfectly, and then 
roll them in your crumbs. Lastly, shake off the 
loose ones, and gently roll them again on a clean 
part of the board " to firm " on those which 

* See also lesson ouYx^Vxi^, ^. 4&. 



119 

adhere ; this ensures their being completely covered 
and keeps the surface smooth. Mend any part which 
is not covered, and as each is done set it in the 
frying basket. So far this entrSe may be prepared in 
the morning, it does not in the least harm rissoles, or 
croquettes, cutlets, fish cakes, &c, to remain in their 
case of egg and crumb before cooking for some hours ; 
indeed, it is rather a safe plan, for as the egg dries it 
fastens on the crumbs. Some cooks, to make sure of suc- 
cess, egg and crumb their " frittures " twice, but it is 
not a good plan, the case is too thick and hard. A 
frying basket is a saucepan made of wire, in which 
you lower your rissoles into the hot fat (you 
must be careful that it is quite hot, and that the blue 
fume I gave you as a test is visible *), its chief advan- 
tage is that as all go in at once and come out together 
they are exactly one shade. In your second lesson of 
the former series you saw that it was quite possible to 
fry without one. Don't be too anxious to see how they 
are getting on. If you lift them out too soon the change 
into the cold air will cause them to burst, about one 
minute will be long enough ; you can lift the basket to 
see without taking it completely out. When done, lift 
them with your fingers (you will soon get used to warm 
things, and they must be lightly handled as the sauce 
is now soft), and lay them on kitchen paper to drain 
whilst you fry the parsley. The English cook's one 
idea of a garnish is raw parsley, which by rights is 
only admissible with cold joints and boiled fish ; hot 
joints should be ornamented with vegetables, and for 
fried fish the parsley should be fried. Let the fat get 
still hotter, the blue fume must be very apparent, wring 
your parsley perfectly dry in a cloth, and pick off the 
stems, put a good handful in the basket, and plunge it 
in — turn your face away as it is apt to splutter. In 
about five seconds it is done; it must not change 
colour at all but be so crisp that it crushes in your 

•Seep. 41. 



120 

fingers. Some people seom to find it difficult, princi- 
pally because the fat is not hot enough, and the " sur- 
prise " perfect, and partly also because they leave it in 
too long. Toss it on to a sheet of paper and sprinkle 
upon it fine salt. Arrange the croquettes as lightly as 
you can upon a napkin or dish paper ; if fried things 
press heavily on one another, the steam is kept in, and 
they are sodden and spoilt. Decorate the dish with 
the parsley, but do not overdo it above all things. They 
should be served as hot as possible, and will be found 
the very reverse of dry. Any meat can be used in 
croquettes by this receipe, game being particularly 
good. If enclosed in paste, a "salpicon" should be 
used in place of the panada. It is made in the same 
way with half as much flour and the yolk of an egg 
stirred in and slightly cooked just before the cream is 
added. Make some pastry with the yolk of an egg, a 
table-spoonful of water, and three of flour, roll it out as 
thin as a sheet of writing paper, stamp out some rounds 
with the top of a flour dredger, brush the edges with egg, 
lay a tea-spoonful of the mixture upon each, fold the 
paste over neatly, egg, crumb, fry, and serve them like 
croquettes. The great point to observe is that the 
paste should be as thin as a wafer, or it will not be 
cooked in the few seconds they take to fry ; being light 
they float, and require turning. 

I shall next instruct you in the process of Larding 
some Grenadines of Veal. You take a slice from the 
cutlet of veal, about one inch in thickness, and from it 
you must get seven or nine grenadines, an odd number 
always dishes up the best. Each must be about the 
size and shape of the top of a tea cup ; there must be 
no join or sinew across them, and all skin must be cut 
off, or they will draw up in cooking. They should be 
half an inch in thickness ; dip a cutlet bat, or heavy 
broad bluded knife in water and beat them well ; this 
flattens them, and breaks some of the tissues, so that 
their tendency to shrink is decreased. Now trim them 
very neatly till the round is perfect •, \ftta,^taiGh»&YEL 



121 

veal or mutton cutlets, should always be done after they 
are beaten. For larding them, you must have a block 
of fat bacon, one and a quarter inch in width ; larding 
bacon is the best, as it is differently cured, without 
the saltpetre, which turns meat red; failing this, 
you must choose a piece of ordinary bacon from the 
back where the fat is firm and hard. Gut a number 
of slices along it, parallel to the rind, (which rests on 
the board), and one eighth of an inch apart, then cut 
downwards, so that you have strips of fat one eighth 
of an inch wide each way and one and a quarter inch long, 
with' these you will thread your needle. A larding 
needle is a piece of wire, split into four at one end, be- 
tween these pieces you lay the bacon. Take your 
grenadine on a cloth, and thread the needle through the 
upper surface of it across the grain of the meat. As 
you draw your needle through the stitch, you must leave 
the bacon in it. 1 find the easiest plan is to slant 
the needle a little upwards directly it is free of the 
meat. Make three stitches in a line across the narrower 
part, then three more a little lower down, so that they 
alternate with the previous row and the ends of the 
bacon cross slightly, and continue doing this until the 
entire surface is covered. Trim the ends off evenly 
with scissors. You must be careful to take the stitches 
so deep that you do not tear the meat, and yet not through 
to the other side. In hot weather the bacon is some- 
what troublesome to manage, it is soft and breaks easily; 
handle it as little as possible and do your larding in a 
cool place. The breasts of fowls and game are often 
larded in this way ; with very small game it is more 
usual to tie a slice of fat bacon over the breast, this is ' 
called " barding." Lean meats are generally selected to 
be larded, and they are then always roasted or braized. 
The lardoons, as the strips of bacon are called, must be 
proportionate in size to the piece of meat for which 
they are used. Truffles and ham also can be used to 
lard with, and the needle is soms&aife* ytoly&.^»<s&» 
side of the meat and out at the o^^t^w^^^^^^ 5 * 8 *' 




122 

in the centre instead of upon the surface. Pieces of beef 
from the under cut of the sirloin similar to these grena- 
dines, would be called "fillets de boeuf," and a single 
large piece of veal would be a " fricandeau." In your 
last lesson but one, you were taught how to braize* so 
that I need only tell you that is the way these should 
be cooked, and give you a list of the ingredients. Half 
a pint of stock (it must be good and stiff), one good 
sized carrot, one turnip, one stick of celery, one bouquet 
garni, one onion, and seasoning. They will cook in an 
hour, and must be a light brown. The glaze must be 
stiff and only just enough to cover them and the dish. 
A macedoine of vegetables, out a suitable size, must be 
served in the centre, the grenadines forming a circle 
round, each overlapping the other slightly. A bed of 
mashed potatoes is sometimes placed under them to 
make the dish handsomer and easier to arrange. A 
pure'e of spinach or sorrel is occasionally served in the 
centre, the acidity of the latter being particularly 
agreeable with veal. 

A Cubby is a favourite entree, and a good one for you 
to learn, since they are all made alike, whether yon use 
meat or fish, the latter naturally requiring less time to 
cook. I shall use one rabbit, one pint and a half of 
stock, one table-spoonful of flour, two of curry powder, 
one apple, one onion, quarter lb. of butter, half a gill 
of cream, the juice of half a lemon, salt, one salt-spoon- 
ful of sugar, half a lb. of rice. Divide the rabbit neatly 
into joints, much smaller than you would in carving, 
about one inch or one and a half inch square, and chop 
off all projecting pieces of bone. The chest and head 
have so little on, they had better be put in the stock 
pot. Roll each piece well in flour to be sure it is dry, 
make the butter very hot, and fry them a rich brown. 
Meanwhile, peel, core, and mince the apple, peel the 
onion and slice it finely from the top to the root,t chop 
jt up also, and as soon as the rabbit has taken a good 

* Seep. 106. ^S*ft^.\*. 



123 

colour on both sides, lay it on a plate and fry the onion, 
which you must be careful not to blacken or your curry 
will taste bitter. As soon as it is brown, add the apple, 
and let the two frizzle together until soft, then return 
the rabbit to the saucepan, sprinkle over it your curry 
powder, and let that fry. In India curries are prepared 
very differently; they do not have the powder ready made, 
but mix it as they go on, putting in each ingredient 
separately ; and, as they have the advantage of obtaining 
many of them fresh and green, it is no wonder theirs 
should be so superior and different from ours. I 
believe few people know what an immense improve- 
ment it is to fry the powder, and so is the addition of a 
little freshly grated cocoa-nut when it is in season. 
The best curry powder to be obtained in London is 
from Apothecaries Hall. I would not advise your 
manufacturing it at home, it is a painful performance, 
the red peppers tickle the throat and make the eyes 
smart sadly. The flour I am using is not a necessary 
ingredient. Some people say curry is not correct when 
it is added, let them leave it out ; as for me, I think it 
an agreeable addition, chacun a son gout, where the 
question does not affect the character of the dish. Mix it 
with the stock, pour it into the saucepan, andletthe whole 
simmer very gently for one hour and a half. As you 
already understand the boiling of the rice,* I will not 
weary you by repeating it. Just before the curry is 
served, add the cream and lemon juice, and on no 
account return it to the fire afterwards, or the acid will 
curdle the cream. Serve the pieces of rabbit in the 
centre of the dish, shake the rice in a loose and high 
border round, and pour what little sauce there is (it 
ought to be a teacupful at the most), over the meat ; if 
properly made it will be very thick and smooth, and 
cling to the rabbit. When the curry is of lobster, use 
the same ingredients, only make it like the curry of 
cold meat, and decorate the rice with some of the 

* See page A3. 



124 

grated coraL Prawns make an effective dish in the 
same way, with the heads embedded in the border. 
Sour fruit of some kind alwayB enters into the compo- 
sition of a curry. In India the meat will not keep, 
the heat is too great, it has to be eaten the same day 
it is killed, and to prevent its being too tough a sour 
fruit is cooked with it that the acid may soften the 
fibres and make it tender. They generally use the 
mango and green lime ; we find the apple most con- 
venient, and when that is out of season, substitute 
green gooseberries or rhubarb. Instead of rice, boiled 
maccaroni can be used with a curry, but it is not so 
general 

It is usual at a dinner to serve a brown and a white 
entree. 

Cotjblbttb de Veatj 1 la. Talleyrand is a very quickly 
made dish, a general favourite, and though not exactly 
white, passes as one. The necessary ingredients are 
one lb. of veal cutlet, two ozs. of butter, one gill of 
white sauce, one shallot, four mushrooms, one table- 
spoonful of chopped parsley, the juice of a lemon, 
seasoning, and the yolks of two eggs. Cut your veal 
into neat pieces as for grenadines, make the butter hot 
in a sautepan or scrupulously clean frying-pan, lay the 
cutlets in it, and cook them gently for fully five minutes 
without discolouring them in the least on either side. 
Chop up the shallot exceedingly small, also the mush- 
rooms, and sprinkle them with the parsley, pepper, and 
salt over the cutlets, add one gill of white sauce, first 
stir it until it simmers so that the sauce mixes well 
in with the butter, and then let it continue doing so 
for twenty minutes to cook the meat. If you have 
no white sauce at hand, make some in this way : 
Melt one oz. of butter and gently fry in it one oz. of 
lean ham without darkening the butter, stir in one and 
a half oz. of fine flour, add half a pint of white stock, 
and stir it until it boils. Feel four mushrooms, with- 
oub washing, they must "be "button*, t\a& W^r ones 
d discolour the sauce*, cat \x$ uo& ad& 4 &&i& Mk «&^ 



125 

now draw the saucepan on one side, put the lid half on, 
and leave it gently simmering for twenty minutes to 
throw up the butter. At the end of that time you will 
find a quantity of oil upon the surface which must be 
removed, it has done its service in softening and enrich- 
ing the sauce, but if left in would disagree with some 
people. Lay a tammy or loosely made cloth over a 
basin and pour the sauce into it. Take up the two ends, 
twist one in one way, the other in the opposite, and so 
wring the sauce through; this is the most effectual way 
of straining, and is always adopted with the best sauces. 
Add one gill of cream, and it is ready for use, it will 
keep for a day or two in cold weather, especially with- 
out the cream, which can be added at the time of using. 
An inferior white sauce is made in the same way with- 
out cream, and with milk substituted for half the 
quantity of stock. The only difficulty in a dish of 
cutlets a la Talleyrand is in the cooking, it must be 
very gentle, and they must be stirred often. I have 
seen them cooked so fast, that the butter completely 
separated from the sauce, giving the dish an unwhole- 
some oily appearance, anything but tempting; the 
gentle stewing, besides avoiding that, makes the meat 
extremely tender. When done, stir in, off the fire, 
the yolks of two eggs, return the pan for a minute to 
take off the raw taste, and just before serving add the 
juice of a lemon. Arrange the cutlets in a circle, and 
pour the sauce over them. No garnish is served with 
this dish, and, unless you have cooked it so fast as to 
change the colour of the parsley, the yellow sauce is 
effective enough and none is needed. 

Tou have had so many examples in these lessons of 
the way in which to egg and crumb meat, that I have 
not thought it necessary to show you that standard 
entree, Mutton Cutlets. The great art lies in trimming 
them into a good shape, and for this reason, you must 
select the smallest meat and only use the seven bones 
at the best end of the neck. Let the china to&& Va ^»w^ 
neatly off (it is the flat piece t\*ak "\iefc *fc>ta& ^"fc *&*$&» 



126 

cutlets), and in removing it the top of the cutlet hone 
should be sawn off too ; it is an ugly nob which spoils 
their shape. The bones of the cutlets themselves should 
not be longer than three inches, and each cutlet should 
be cut with a bone to it, and then beaten out to the 
right thickness. Trim them to a shape as nearly re- 
sembling a pear as possible, and remove the skin from 
the outside and inside the bone, the tip of which must 
be scraped bare for half an inch. They are now ready 
to be egged, crumbed, and fried in two ozs. of butter, 
and should be served with mashed potatoes, green peas, 
or with frills round the bone. There is some art in 
dishing them nicely. Lay one on your dish with the 
bone on the inner side of the circle, the next over it in 
the same way, and so on, until, as you slip in the last, 
you raise them all upwards so that they stand almost 
straight and the tips of the bones make a ring at the 
top ; the vegetable should be placed in the middle. 
Almost any sauce or vegetable may be served with them, 
and the dish generally takes its name from the sauce. 
Cotelettes de Mouton a la Soubis is so called from the 
puree of onions, into which the cutlets have been dipped; 
covered with a puree of green peas, they are a la Frincesse, 
and so on ; there is an almost endless variety which you 
ought now to be able to work out for yourselves from 
the receipes given in Cookery books. Cutlets may he 
broiled or braized as well as fried, they are nice either 
way if not over done ; seven minutes will fry them, five' 
broil them, and half an hour braize them. 



FOURTH LESSON. 



VEGETABLES AOT) SALADS. 

Having shown you in the other series of lessons how 
to boil both old and new potatoes, I shall to-day illus- 
trate some of the fancy ways of dressing them. The 
ordinary and simplest way ol fa\\iWiT\% Atmbs^i ^tefaqs is 



127 

to pour away the water, put in a dessert-spoonful of finely 
chopped parsley, and one oz. of butter, and shake them 
for a minute or two over the fire (a la maItbe d'hotel, 
it is called) ; slices of old potatoes warmed up in the 
same manner are very good, or a thick sauce made with 
melted butter and parsley may be used. To " sAinri " 
them, they must be tossed in one or two ozs. of butter, 
according to the quantity, until golden brown. Saute 
potatoes when made from old ones are somewhat differ- 
ent. Pieces about the shape and size of the quarters of 
an orange must be cut with a knife, or if you have a 
proper vegetable scoop cut them to resemble new pota- 
toes, put them on in cold water and just bring them to 
the boil, no more or they will be ruined, then wipe them 
dry ; make two ozs. of butter quite hot and put them in 
to cook for about fifteen or twenty minutes, tossing 
them occasionally, that all sides may be equally golden. 
They are an effective and agreeable garnish to a broiled 
steak or chop. The fried potatoes so often seen in 
France require considerable practice. Slices must be 
cut from the raw potato about one eighth of an inch in 
thickness, put into the frying basket, and then boiled in 
the fat until on pressing the centre it feels soft; the fat 
must not be nearly hot enough to fry in, they must 
only just cook. Take them out and let it get very hot 
indeed, quite 400°, now plunge them in for one or two 
seconds, and they will puff out like small balloons and 
be crisp and brown. Potato Croquettes are general 
favourites, and it is a good way of dressing old ones, or 
warming up those left from yesterday's dinner. You 
must have at least one lb. of cold potatoes very drily 
boiled, or better still, not boiled at all but baked, two 
eggs, one oz. of butter, one tablespoonful of milk, 
seasoning, bread crumbs, and the frying fat. Eub the 
potatoes through a wire sieve and mix with them the 
butter and milk made hot together, break an egg and 
beat the yolk well in (in making up two lbs. you can be 
economical and make one whole e^fe ««ct^ \asfcR»&. *fc- 
two yolks, but it is not bo rich), oA<\.Vta& *«*»&\&W8»«kA> 



128 

roll small portions of this into different shapes upon a 
floured board. Apples and pears look very well, or 
merely balls and corks, just which you fancy, but never 
form it into cutlets, which would be misleading. Boll 
them in the egg and then in crumbs. The fat must be 
very hot before they are fried, and the case of egg and 
crumb very perfect, or you will be disgusted to see the 
potato boiling out and only a hollow shape left. They 
are such a watery vegetable, the only way to avoid such 
a catastrophe is to have no doubt about the fat, let the 
fume be very visible, or if you have a frimometer let it 
register 400° before you attempt to use it. Cook them 
in a frying basket and let them be of a light colour, 
drain them in the usual way on paper in front of the 
fire, and where the stalk of the fruit would be, insert some 
parsley stem to represent it. Serve them on a dish 
paper or napkin garnished with fried parsley.* To some 
people's taste, the addition of a table-spoonful of parsley 
to the potatoes is an improvement; further varieties 
may be produced by the admixture of different minced 
meats, in which case the dish must change its name. 
Those who are fond of baked potatoes will find this a 
convenient way of serving them for company, * en robe 
de chambre' as one menu gave it. Bake them and 
divide each skin carefully in half, scoop out all the 
potato, pass it through a wire sieve, melt two ozs. of 
butter in one table-spoonful of milk, let the potato 
warm through in it, add pepper and salt, chopped 
parsley if liked, and fill half the skins, heaping them 
very high in the centre. Smooth the surface with a 
knife dipped in cold water, or score it as your taste 
may dictate, brush them with yolk of egg and let them 
bake a golden brown in the oven before serving. A 
potato salad is a delicious dish. Tou shred a couple 
of young lettuces, cut six or eight cold boiled new 
potatoes into slices, and if they are liked slice up also 
a few chives ; mix the lettuce, potatoes, and chives 

* See p. US. 



129 

with pepper, salt, a little vinegar, and plenty of the very 
best salad oil, and serve it upon a dish which has been 
rubbed with garlic. With celery and beetroot, cold 
boiled potatoes also make an excellent salad. 

As an example of how to cook green vegetables, I have 
some spinach and Brussels spkouts. All except spinach 
and green peas, the shells of which would crack, should 
go into boiling water and be boiled fast with the lid off 
and without soda, a small lump of sugar answers the 
same purpose, and does not make them so insipid. 
Greens are better steamed than boiled, they are less 
watery. Brussels sprouts must be neatly trimmed 
the stalk is to be cut off and all loose leaves, so that 
each is a perfect and compact cabbage in miniature ; 
those which have opened are unsatisfactory and will 
never dress nicely. They are to be washed in salt and 
water, and then cooked in some which is boiling fast 
for ten or fifteen minutes. The salt in the water, you 
remember, raises the temperature six degrees. Strain 
them off and set the water out of doors to cool before 
it is thrown away, and then let it be thrown down an out- 
side drain. Green- water has a most objectionable odour, 
and should never be poured down the sink. A slice of 
bread tied up in linen and thrown into the saucepan 
whilst cabbages are boiling is said to cure it ; if tied in 
calico it is not efficacious. Now saute the sprouts for 
a few minutes in one oz. of butter with pepper and salt : 
the hot butter drives some of the water off in steam, 
and makes them more tasty. Most plainly boiled vege- 
tables are improved by being tossed in butter, to which 
parsley, lemon juice, grated nutmeg, or minced shallot 
may be added to taste. Peas must be gently boiled 
from twenty minutes to half an hour, or more, accord 
ing to their age. A sprig of mint should be cookea 
with them, and a lettuce also will give them a good 
flavour. On the continent it is not uncommon to see 
the pods sent to table, or a dish, half peas and half 
carrot, cut in small pieces, which, mixtvafe Sa ^«r$ ^*A- 
You should saute both peas and \>ean» m^^te ^ss* *• 



130 

few minutes before they are dished up ; for the former 
the addition of some finely-chopped mint to the batter 
is thought an improvement. The most delicate way of 
serving broad beaks is to slip them out of the skina, 
which are tough and bitter, and warm them in some 
parsley and butter sauce. Spinach is an exceptional 
vegetable ; it is boiled without any water. Am it 
reduces enormously in cooking, you must have two pail- 
f uls to make a good sized dish. The stalk must be pulled 
off every leaf, and if they are old so must the tip, it is 
apt to be bitter. The great drawback to spinach is ite 
invariable grittiness ; nothing is more unpleasant than 
to bite upon grit, and it is extremely difficult to waah 
out. I think the best plan is to put the leaves in a 
large sieve and let the tap run whilst you turn them 
over and over under it ; but even this, unless persevered 
in for some time, is of no avail. When quite clean 
pack it into a large empty saucepan, with a good sprink- 
ling of salt, put on the lid, and set it by the fire; 
nine-tenths of spinach are nothing but water from 
which you may gather that when finished you will only 
have one-tenth its original bulk, and also that it will 
furnish plenty of liquid in which to cook. Let it boil 
for ten minutes in its own juices, and the lid is to be 
left on. The green is so intense there is no fear of ita 
discolouring; indeed, spinach affords the only pore 
green colouring-matter used in confectionery. To 
obtain it, pound some leaves in a mortar and steam tiw 
expressed juice in a gallipot until it is solid ; it will 
keep some time. The economical way of dressing this 
vegetable is to press out the water, chop it, warm it 
with a piece of butter, and serve. By far the nicer 
method is to wring it very dry in a cloth, rub it through 
a wire sieve, add seasoning and as much cream as it 
will take up without becoming too liquid; one gill 
should be about the quantity ; and warm it with one 
ounce of butter. It may be pressed into a buttered 
mould and shaken on to Vke fosta, <rc formed there hie 
a pyramid with a \anie. Otofotaflaa, «t VnaA vBgqgs*^ \ 



131 

fancy shapes, should be used as garnish, and poached 
eggs may also be served with it. It is a particularly 
wholesome vegetable and very easy to digest after being 
passed through the sieve. Asparagus, Celery, and 
Seaxale are cooked in the same way and for the same 
length of time-half an hour; though, in every in- 
stance, the time depends entirely upon age and the 
consequent toughness of the fibre. Asparagus must be 
scraped from the head downwards, to remove an outer 
skin ; and cut all one length. Celery is to be well 
washed ; the outer stalks that are too coarse to cook 
pulled off and the root cut away. Seakale only requires 
washing and trimming about the root ; each must be 
tied in a bundle with bass or broad tape — string would 
cut through it — and put into boiling water and salt ; 
with seakale it is most important that the boiling should 
be regular, and half an oz. of butter in the water 
softens and improves it. They must each be dished 
upon^a slice of toast, not intended to be eaten, but for 
the purpose of draining them perfectly. Egkj Sauce is 
• correct with asparagus. Melt a quarter of a lb. of 
butter, bruise the yolks of four hard-boiled eggs in a 
mortar, add seasoning and one teaspoonful of lemon 
juice and serve it in a tureen. Celery is not unfre- 
quently stewed in stock, which is thickened and served 
with it as a brown sauce. Sauce Normande goes well 
with almost any vegetable ; melt one oz. of butter, stir 
in half an oz. of flour, add (carefully, because it is 
hot *) half a pint of the water in which the vegetable 
is cooking, mix very smoothly, and just bring it to the 
boil ; season it and add, off the fire, the yolks of two 
eggs, which, when thoroughly blended, must just be 
cooked enough to destroy the raw taste without curd- 
ling them. A squeeze of lemon just at the last moment 
is a wise addition. This sauce goes well with cauli- 
flower, broad beans, vegetable marrow, &c. A more 
expensive one of the same description is Hollandaise^ 

See p. 21. 



132 

made by adding to half a pint of melted butter the 
yolks of three eggs and, piece by piece — off the fire— 
a quarter of a lb. of butter. 

Cauliflower av gratin is an entremet. All dressed 
vegetables, such as tomatoes farcis, potatoes soufHee, 
and so on, are called entremets de legumes, and should 
be handed round after the game, they might also be 
introduced into the second service. You must select a 
cauliflower with a firm close head, wash it, trim off 
nearly all the leaves (a few will be a protection to the 
flower), and put it in boiling water until quite tender, 
probably from twenty minutes to half an hour. When 
it is to be plainly boiled for table, do not trim off quite 
so many leaves, split the stalk across in opposite directions 
that it may cook as soon as the flower ; and take off the 
lid of the saucepan to prevent its turning brown ; in 
this instance the lid may be left on, as not a particle of 
the green is sent to table. Place it in with the head 
downwards, so that any scum which may be thrown 
up settles on the stalk and not upon the white blossom. 
To try whether it is done, press the flower with your 
finger, and when soft, take it out on to a hair sieve, or 
cloth, and trim off all the stalk, reverse it upon a dish 
so that it is in the same position as when growing, and 
spread your sauce, which you will have made while it was 
cooking, well over the surface ; it is to be completely 
masked. Melt one oz. of butter, mix in one oz. of 
flour, add one gill of water, and stir continually until 
it boils, then mix in three quarters of an oz. of grated 
Parmesan cheese, half a gill of cream, pepper, salt, 
and about as much cayenne as will cover the surface of 
a threepenny-piece. This will make an unusually thick 
sauce, which is what you must have, or it will run off into 
the dish where none is needed ; spread it over with a 
knife, and sprinkle upon the top a quarter of an oz. of 
cheese. This now requires browning, and it can be 
done in three ways, either stand the dish in a Dutch 
oven in front of a fierce fire, and turn it once or twice ; 
in a very quick oven; ot it esai \a tou&\?]Y«3&B&^i 



4 133 

\ 
salamander over. The salamander is a round piece of 
iron at the end of a poker, it is heated until red hot, 
and is much used for browning ; it must be knocked 
first on the hob to shake off pieces of cinder and coal 
dust, which would blacken your dish. Another way of 
serving cauliflower augratiniB simply to melt three ozs. 
of butter, just warm the grated cheese in it, and pour 
it over, some people much prefer it. When you cannot 
get one large flower, take two or three smaller, and 
press them well together in a basin (flower downwards), 
so that they take its shape, and when reversed upon 
the dish appear as one. Other white vegetables may 
also be served an gratin, and it is a good way of warm- 
ing up what cauliflower remains from yesterday's 
dinner. ' 

Young Carrots may be quite plainly boiled and then 
tossed in butter, in which case cook them in the skins, 
and rub it off with a coarse cloth before you saute' them; 
or better still, cook them a la maitre d'hdtel. Cut out 
the crown, wash and scrape them. Put into a saucepan 
one gill of boiling water, one oz. of butter, and a very 
small knob of sugar, and boil the carrots in this until 
they are nearly done — for a good half hour. Remove 
the lid of the saucepan, and allow the water to pass away 
in steam, so that by the time they are tender, there is 
only butter left; they generally take from three quarters 
of an hour to one hour. Put into the saucepan the juice 
of a lemon, seasoning, and a dessert-spoonful of chopped 
parsley, give it one good shake, and serve them standing 
on end with the sauce round. Young turnips should 
be boiled in brown stock with the lid off, so that when 
they are ready for eating, it has reduced to a thick 
glaze, just enough to cover them, or they may be 
plainly boiled and tossed in butter with a little castor 
sugar sprinkled upon them, which will also produce a 
glaze. They should be cut of a uniform shape, and 
trimmed to stand on end. 

There can be no very precise rules as to \fc\fc ts^ks»% 
and mixing of Salatw they must rito^fc "s^rj -^o&v^ 5 ^ 



134 

taste of those who eat them. I can only show you that 
standard dish, lobster salad (a plain one), and mayon- 
naise sauce, and leave it to yon to vary them at discre- 
tion. Almost any edible green meat can be made into 
salads, lettuce, endive, sorrel, dandelion, water-cress, tara- 
gon, chervil, mustard and cress, Australian cress, parsley, 
mint, marjoram, balm, thyme, basil, mint, cucumber, 
beetroot, celery, radishes, onions, chives, even garlic 
some people use, besides which various vegetables come 
into services, such as tomatoes, asparagus, cauliflower, 
potatoes, &c. Above all things, it is essential to a good 
salad, that it be freshly gathered ; if the crispness is 
gone, half the enjoyment has also. Strictly speaking, 
it ought not to be washed, though green meat can rarely 
be grown so clean as not to need it ; if it does, be most 
particular to leave no water on the leaves, it spoils the 
salad dressing ; and do not crush them in drying, or they 
will taste flabby and faded; the best way is to shake them 
on a dry cloth. < )ne cause of failure in English salads is 
that the lettuce and so forth is cut up too finely; abroad 
they break them apart, and tear the leaves, or pull them 
to pieces with forks ; they never should be chopped, 
shred they may be, but then only in large pieces. To 
chop is to cut in any and every direction ; to shred, to 
cut across the leaf only at right angles to the rib. Be 
careful in picking over the leaves that you reject all in 
the least faded or stale, and in using water cress, only 
take the tops and leaves, the stalks are coarse and hot. 
Onion is generally added in slices, a far wiser plan is 
to mince it exceedingly fine, likewise, all the strong 
herbs, such as tarragon, mint, thyme, and add them to 
the dressing, and so to the salad, by which means they 
become far more thoroughly incorporated, and you don^b 
have one mouthful strong of tarragon, and the next of 
mint; perfect salad, like a good aspic jelly, should be an 
agreeable combination of many flavorings, not one of 
which is so strong as to predominate. Those who object 
to the use of onions and garlic, will find the taste quite 
sufficiently conveyed to ttafc mYxteoa», Si ^aa \«*Y is 



135 

rubbed with the cut surface of one before it is filled. 
Salads must not stand long after they are mixed, in 
fact, the dressing should only be added to them at the 
last minute, though it may be made before. 

There is an almost endless variety of ways in which 
you may garnish them : hard boiled eggs in quarters or 
rounds, the yolk made into dust, fancy shaped pieces 
cut out of the white, cucumber in slices, beetroot in 
pretty shapes, the silvery stalks of the cress, truffles, 
radishes, borage flowers, the ice plant looks most 
exquisite, so cool and refreshing, and even the flowers 
of the nasturtium are admissible since they are not 
harmful. The way in which these are disposed is best 
left to the taste of the sa}ad mixer ; there can be no 
rule since one would weary of it were every salad 
precisely like the last. With regard to the dressing, 
there should be three times as much oil as vinegar, and 
they should be the chief ingredients; mustard, salt, 
pepper, Worcester sauce, anchovy sauce, sugar, the 
the yolks of eggs (either raw or hard boiled), and 
vinegar flavoured with tarragon, chives, cucumber, 
celery, &c, can be used when those vegetables are not 
in season. These are to be added in quantities best 
determined by taste and practice, always bearing in 
mind that none should predominate. It is absolutely 
essential that your oil should be of the finest quality ; 
it is hopeless to produce a really good salad with any 
but the best, and the most effectual way of blending 
it is to commence by emulsifying it with the egg. The 
salad dressing sold in bottles is too much like furniture 
polish, and, as the mixture will keep good any length of 
time, provided it is well corked, it is a pity housekeepers 
do not make their own. Oil and egg should be mixed 
first ; if the latter is hard boiled, first rub it through 
a sieve, then add mustard, seasoning, sugar, sauces, 
vinegar, and, lastly, the* chopped onion and herbs. 

For Mayonnaise you must put into a round-bottomed 
basin the yolks of two eggs, and stir them with a. 
wooden spoon very regularly mtti & mb & \»i$KW*a&^ 



136 

and forwards motion, whilst you add, drop by drop, 
about one gill of oil or more, according to the quantity 
of sauce you want,, for two eggs will take up even one 
pint of oil, and the more you add the thicker it becomes. 
The great point is not to add the oil too quickly at 
first; when it is thick it may go in more freely. Should 
you happen to curdle it, add another yolk, and it will 
come right. It is a fallacy to suppose this must be 
stirred one way. If used to mask fillets of chicken or 
sole, or to decorate salmon, use it as it is now ; if as a 
salad dressing, put in two table-spoonfuls of vinegar 
(also cautiously), and one of tarragon vinegar, seasoning, 
and half a gill of cream, if it is liked. The addition 
to it of one tea-spoonful of made mustard, one table- 
spoonful of chopped gherkins, and one dessert-spoonful of 
finely chopped parsley; converts it into Tartake Sattck, 
very good with broiled salmon. The parsley should be 
dipped for an instant into strong soda and water boiling 
very fast — it intensifies the green. It used to be the 
fashion to serve salads in bowls ; now-a-days they are 
arranged on dishes, and the dressing poured over. I 
cannot help thinking the older method the better, since 
they were more surely mixed. This is a simple way 
of serving Lobstek Salad : make a bed of the^ lettuce or 
endive, and lay on it at intervals the finest pieces from 
the claws and tail ; next arrange a layer of your other 
greenmeat, water-cresses, perhaps, and so on, aiming at 
a variety and contrast in the colour*; put the rest of the 
lobster amongst it, mix the soft matter from the head 
with the dressing, and pour it over all. Garnish with 
a sprinkling of fine cress, chervil leaves, hard boiled 
eggs, cucumber, and so on, and shake over the whole 
some powdered lobster coral.* The feelers of the fish 
should stand erect in the centre. If mayonnaise sauce 
is used, the larger pieces of the lobster should be dipped 
in it until completely masked and then laid on the 
salad ; a mayonnaise of sole or chicken would be the 



See page \3ft< 



137 

same. For a Plain Salad, I arrange effectively upon 
my dish as great a variety of greenmeat as I can get : I 
then pour over every part the dressing, either mayon- 
naise or a mixture of my own to taste, and ornament 
it with quarters of hard boiled egg and half rounds of 
cucumber alternately round the edge, white of egg. 
beetroot, and cucumber, in fancy shapes about the top, 
and over the whole I rub the yolk of an egg through a 
wire sieve. Upon this again, if you like, a sprinkling 
of finely chopped parsley. In cooking beetroot you 
must notice that there is no fracture in the skin, or it 
will bleed in the saucepan, and be found almost colour- 
less ; I think the wiser plan is to bake them. Those 
who are fond of Tomatoes will like them in a salad; 
they make a good one cut in slices, and with a few 
slices of Spanish onion, a desert spoonful of chopped 
parsley, plenty of oil, some vinegar, and seasoning. 
Celery and beetroot together are also delicious ; some 
people add a little onion. Potato salad I have already 
told yon of, and numbers of others very similar will, 
doubtless, suggest themselves to your mind. In Ger- 
many, apples, meat, pickles, lettuce, and many other 
things equally incongruous, are mixed together, and the 
result is very satisfactory. 



FIFTH LESSON. 



FISH. 

I shall commence this lesson with an example of a 
fish entree, Lobster Cutlets. The ingredients you will 
want are one lobster, one and a half ozs. of butter, one 
oz. of flour, one gill of cold water, half a gill of cream, 
seasoning, a squeeze of lemon juice, an egg, some 
crumbs, and the frying fat. They can be prepared 
early in the day, as the mixture must be cold before it 
is formed into cutlets ; indeed, it may even be Taa&.&<& ^ 
and left ready for frying an \iowi ox \^ro ^w^st^Ns*^ 



138 

wanted. Unless a lobster is for eating, always select 
a hen, on account of the coral, which is so useful for 
colouring and decoration; you may know them by 
the extra breadth of the shell in the body, and can tell 
a good one by its weight. Lobsters are in full season 
in May and June, and the coral is then very plentiful ; 
so is the spawn, which is taken from them previous to 
boiling, and pickled in a bottle with equal quantities of 
salt and sugar, against the winter, when there is none. 
Should you buy a cock lobster, ask for some spawn, 
which will answer the same purpose, and be used in 
precisely the same way. In many cookery books you 
are directed to commence by pounding the flesh in a 
mortar, it is a mistake ; you should never disguise the 
substance of which your dishes are made, and, more- 
over, in this instance it would be disagreeably stringy ; 
it is far better to cut it neatly into dice, a quarter of an 
inch square. Use none of the soft matter from the 
head ; by rights only the tail should be used, but the 
flesh from the claws, if cut up tidily, can very well be 
put with it. Lobster cutlets should be as red all 
through as the shell of the fish after it is boiled. To 
obtain this colour, you must pound the coral or spawn 
with half an oz. of butter in a mortar, and then rub it 
through a wire sieve. Now, make a panada similar to 
that used for chicken croquettes: melt one oz. of butter, 
stir in one oz. of flour, add one gill of water or fish 
stock, stir it until it boils ; let it cook very thoroughly, 
and add your pat of coral butter. If you are using 
spawn, it is a greenish black, and after mixing it with 
the panada you must stir it over the fire, until it turns 
bright red. When spawn is used for decoration in a jelly, 
salad, or upon turbot, it is thrown for one minute into 
rapidly boiling water. Lastly, add to your panada the 
cream, lemon juice, seasoning, and lobster, which you must 
stir in thoroughly without breaking; spread the mixture 
upon a greased dish, and set it to cool for at least two 
hours. The coral in the fish is found down the back, 
close against the shell, and T\mnxn%toVltifc ^sr^ to^ of the 



139 

head, if there is more than you need, wash, and wipe it 
very dry, and put it into a slow oven until hard enough 
to grate, if your oven is too hot, you will discolour and 
render it useless. Coral will keep any length of time 
if the moisture is perfectly dried out, and when rubbed 
on a fine grater produces a brilliant scarlet powder, 
very effectively used to sprinkle over a mayonnaise of 
lobster, or in garnishing other dishes prepared from 
fish. As soon as the mixture is firm you can make it 
into cutlets. Use as little flour as you can, and let 
none get inside the cutlet; just sprinkle sufficient 
on your board to prevent them from sticking. Take a 
table-spoonful and make it into a roll, now flatten it 
until it is half an inch thick, and at the same time 
make one end round and the other quite pointed, that 
they may resemble mutton cutlets as nearly as possible. 
A broad-bladed knife is best to use for the purpose. 
Egg and crumb these very perfectly, and as each is done 
lay it in a frying-basket, which, when as full as it can 
be without their touching one another, must be lowered 
into a saucepan of very hot fat, hotter than you use it 
for anything except potatoes and parsley. They are 
troublesome to fry, and burst very quickly if the fat is 
not at the right temperature when they first go in : 
they will also crack if you take them out too soon to look 
at, if there is not enough fat completely to cover them, 
and if the case of bread crumbs is imperfect. They 
must not be dark in colour, and should have a red tinge 
from the coral used in the panada, To represent bone, 
insert at the end of each cutlet one inch of the feeler, 
and arrange them on a dish paper precisely in the same 
way as mutton cutlets, filling up the centre with a good 
handful of fried parsley.* Sprinkle some finely grated 
coral over the whole, and serve them quite hot. Fish 
entrees are, of course, the first to hand round. If the 
coral is fresh you need not dry and grate it, but pass it at 
once through a very fine wire sieve, and you will obtain 

See page \2fi. 



140 

nearly as good a powder. For a dish of cold lobster 
cutlets, you make the panada mixture and stir in the 
lobster flesh, and let it cool exactly the same, but they 
must be made up without any flour, and instead of the 
egg and crumbs they are rolled in powdered coral. Of 
course they are not cooked any more. They can be 
dished up with a border of chopped aspic jelly, or of 
salad, the centre being filled with the same. Another 
very effective way of serving them with aspic jelly is 
to let some set in a shallow dish to the depth of quarter 
of an inch, lay upon it the cutlets, formed into shape 
without flour, or stamped from the mixture with a 
cutlet cutter, pour over enough jelly to completely 
encase them, and let it set firm. Cut them out with a 
border of jelly round, about half an inch wide, and serve 
them with a good salad. Salmon cutlets can be made 
from this recipe, but they are much more difficult to 
keep in shape owing to the oily nature of the fish. If 
the lobster is cut up smaller and then formed into balls 
instead of cutlets, they are Croquettes d'Hokard. 

Oyster Fritters are a favourite fish entree, and an 
easy one. You must have some good fritter batter,* and a 
dozen or more oysters, according to the size of your dish. 
Have a pan of fat very hot, and some paper by the fire 
upon which to drain them. Trim off the beards,, 
sprinkle over the oysters a little pepper and salt, take 
some batter in a Bpoon, lay an oyster in, pour more 
over, then gently drop it into the fat. If they are very 
small, two or more oysters may be included in the same 
fritter, but greater dexterity is required to slip them 
into the fat and fry them as one. They will need 
turning, and must be cooked, drained, and served with 
the utmost expedition ; batter soon becomes sodden and 
flabby. The less oysters are cooked the better ; for 
Oyster Sauce served with cod, they should only just be 
brought to the boil in the liquor the fishmonger sends with 
them, that liquor should be used instead of water, and 

See page 42. 



141 

just before the sauce is poured into the tureen the 
oysters should be returnee! to it to warm through, away 
from the fire. Spirits should never be taken at the 
same time as oysters, they contain much albumen 
which the alcohol completely hardens, so that they are 
utterly indigestible. You can prove this most con- 
vincingly by putting one in a wine-glassful of brandy. 
You will find no difficulty with Lobster Sauce after this 
lesson upon the cutlets. I shall be teaching you 
melted butter for fish, and to convert it into the sauce 
for turbot — you simply stir in the flesh of a small lobster 
cut in dice, and a pat of coral butter. The sauce for 
brill should be coloured by the same means, it is too 
often done with anchovy sauce ; and a handful of 
picked shrimps must be added. In every sauce for 
fish lemon juice is an important ingredient, and should 
not be omitted ; the acid assists its digestion, particu- 
larly in the case of oily fish. 

I have already taught you how to clean and skin a 
sole; * I shall now show you how to fillet it. Lay it 
on your board and make an incision down the centre, 
just over the back bone, and another on each side where 
the fins commence. Cut off the head and cut the flesh on 
the left hand half of the fish away from the bone, being 
careful not to cut through the bones and leave them in 
the flesh, nor to leave any flesh upon the bone; the knife 
must be held very flat. Turn the sole round, and remove 
the other fillet. Next turn it right over, and in the 
same way take off the remaining two. Put the bones 
and head, with a teaspoonful of salt and three quarters 
of a pint of water on to boil ; I shall use it presently 
for sauce. The fillets must have all ragged pieces 
trimmed away, and are then ready to cook. For invalids, 
old people and children, it is a wise way of treating fish, 
as there is no danger from bones ; plaice is filleted in 
the same manner, and thought by many people quite 
equal to sole. With some, it is customary to divide 

"* Se p&ge*ft. 



142 

the fillets into smaller pieces ; J think it better to leave 
them whole and twist them into shape. Draw the two 
ends towards you and cross them twice, always keeping 
the side which was next the bone outwards, the other 
is covered with a thin skin which contracts with heat, 
and in so doing would untwist the fillet if it were out- 
side. They must, of course, be covered with the egg and 
crumbs, previously to being placed in shape. A frying 
basket will be necessary to cook them in. It is some- 
times thought wasteful to fillet fish, but it need not be 
if well done. There is very little left with the fins, and 
the goodness from them is extracted and served in the 
sauce. Filleted and Fried Mackerel are extremely 
nice. Split in half, take out the back bone, and if a 
fine fish, cut each side into four pieces diagonally, dip 
these into egg with which you have mixed one dessert- 
spoonful of powdered mixed herbs and seasoning, then 
into bread crumbs, and fry them. If you broil them, 
use melted butter instead of the egg. They must have 
piquant sauce served in the dish with them, or the one 
I gave you in the other lesson for broiled mackerel. 
For a dish of Sole a la MaItee d'Hotel you must have 
the fillets from a pair of soles, four makes too small a 
dish ; half oz. of butter, three quarters of an oz. of flour, 
half a pint of fish stock, half a gill of cream, lemon 
juice, seasoning, and one table-spoonful of very finely 
chopped parsley. Fold the fillets in the way I described 
for frying, or else like a roll of carpet, or simply double 
them in half, remembering always that the flesh must 
be outside. Place them upon a greased baking tin, 
sprinkle salt and lemon juice over each to keep them 
white, and cover them with a piece of buttered paper 
for the same reason. They will take from six to ten 
minutes to bake, and will feel tender through, if you 
run a skewer in when they are done ; meanwhile, pre- 
pare the sauce. You will observe I have broken the 
rule for melted butter, " always have more butter than 
flour," but the richness is made up for by the large 
amount of cream, for which., ii "jou **i\Ai \» onafc. Sfc, w3b- 



143 

stitute half an oz. of butter. Melt the butter, mix in the 
tlour smoothly, and now add little by little the strained 
fish stock which has been boiling down from the bones ; 
you want in all half a pint, but at first only one table- 
spoonful must go in at a time, because it is hot, and much 
mixing and beating is needed to prevent its becoming 
lumpy ; (all fish sauces should have, as a foundation, 
some liquor in which their bones and trimmings have 
been boiling). Let it boil for a minute, then add the 
cream, seasoning, lemon juice, and parsley, and stand it 
away from the fire so that the parsley does not discolour. 
Lift the fillets off the tin and add the juice to your sauce. 
Arrange them upon a dish in a circle and pour the sauce 
over. A sprinkling of lobster coral upon the top of 
each adds to the brightness of the dish, or you may 
alternately use chopped parsley and browned bread 
crumbs. Plaice is nice when cooked a la maitre d'hotel, 
the flesh is firmer than if boiled. A more tasty dish 
is Sole au gratin. One large sole, four mushrooms, half 
a shallot, quarter of a pint of glaze, one table-spoonful 
of chopped parsley, lemon juice, two table-spoonfuls of 
browned crumbs and seasoning. The time it will take 
to bake varies with its thickness, from ten to fifteen 
minutes. Simply clean and trim the fish, or better still, 
if it is very large, fillet it and dispose the fillets to 
represent an entire fish, it is much pleasanter to serve 
and to eat without the bones. Mince the mushrooms, 
parsley, and shallot, the latter very finely, slightly grease 
a deep baking tin, large enough to take the sole, and 
sprinkle upon it half of your ingredients, excepting the 
glaze and bread crumbs. Gash the fish on each side 
several times with a knife, lay it in the tin and sprinkle 
over the remainder. Lastly, pour the glaze round and 
set it in a moderate oven. Some people only pour the 
glaze into the dish, the flavour is vastly improved by 
the two being cooked together. Try it with a skewer, 
and if tender in the thickest part, slip it with the sauce 
carefully on to a dish, just cover every part with browned 
crumbs, not thickly, only enough to \iidfe \3&fc n*\s&r>^rsSku 



144 

If you have no glaze made put a little stock, about one 
table-spoonful only in the tin to bake with the sole and 
boil one pint down quickly in a shallow pan without 
the lid. The browned bread crumbs can be obtained in 
two ways ; put some white ones in the oven for a few 
minutes, or more economically, save all the crusts, put 
them in at night and leave them there, next morning 
they will be hard and crisp, pound them in a mortar and 
shake them through a sieve until they are of an equal 
size ; they will keep any time in a tin cannister. Lastly 
I shall fry Whiting, in order to show you how round 
fish are skinned. When they are scarce, fishmongers 
often supply the ignorant with small haddock instead, 
and as the texture of the flesh is not unlike, the fraud is 
not always detected. A haddock is not so silvery as 
the whiting, nor so broad in the nose, the back and nose 
are of a purple tinge, whilst the other is stone colour, 
and they have two distinct black spots, one on each side 
just below the head. All flat fish are skinned like the 
sole, all round ones in this way : Cut the fins off the 
back with a sharp knife and from underneath also, re- 
moving at the same time a narrow strip of skin. Slip 
your thumb under it close to the head and carefully 
draw it downwards to the tail. If you attempt to skin 
from tail to head the flesh will come away in flakes with 
it. Lastly, rip the skin off the head and remove the 
eyes. Truss it into shape before covering with the egg. 
Either put the tail between the jaws and fasten it there 
with a small skewer, or slip it through the eyes where 
its fan like shape will generally hold it without fasten- 
ing. Brush the fish over with egg, especially about the 
unsightly head, lay it in the crumbs, shake them well 
over, lift it with a skewer through the ring on to the 
board where you gently firm on the crumbs, have plenty 
of clean fat hot and lay it in without a frying basket, 
back downwards. The basket is unnecessary and might 
leave the mark of the wire upon the fish. Let it cook 
for about three minutes, then set it to drain on kitchen 
paper by the fire whilst you £t\ tYis othsra. Dish them 
upon a napkin and serve witli f x\e& ^gdx&sj . 



145 



SIXTH LESSON. 



OMELETTES AND 80UFFLEES. 

This might, well be described as a lesson upon eggs, for 
they are the chief ingredient in both omelettes and 
soufflees. The term souffle'e may be applied to anything 
which is lightened with whipped white of egg, but a soufflee 
proper is a very spongy, light pudding, so called because 
it is * soufflee,' or blown up by the air contained in the 
whipped whites ; it is particularly wholesome and very 
suitable for convalescents, unless baked, in which case 
the albumen becomes too much hardened to be 
digestible. There are only two ways of cooking them, by 
steaming and baking, and the former is infinitely pre- 
ferable in every respect, it is more wholesome, more 
delicate in flavour, and more effective in appearance, 
whilst the latter is by far the easiest. As with almost 
every dish, if you can make one, with ordinary 
care, attention, and common sense, you can make any 
other variety of it you please. In the making there are 
three points specially to be borne in mind : — don't have 
too much flour for fear it wont stand, or it will be heavy 
and not rise at all ; don't go to the other extreme, and 
have too little, in the hope of making it extra good, or 
it will be too light, and consequently fall when it is 
turned out; be very sure to cook the panada most 
thoroughly, and whip the whites as stiff as it is possible. 
In every soufflee there is one white at least more than 
the number of yolks, some use two more, but it is not 
necessary. Perhaps the most difficult part in their 
preparation is the cooking, it certainly is in the case of 
those which you steam. The baking is comparatively 
simple, since you only need your oven intensely hot, 
and sufficient patience not to open the door for ten 
minutes, when you may be sure of success, if the mix- 
ing has been rightly attended to. On an average^ 
twenty minutes is the length, oi Yama to\w&s> *. waSkk» * 



146 

whilst they require from twenty to thirty minutes to 
steam, and, if large, even longer. It is essential that 
the heat should be regular, and not too great ; don't keep 
putting the saucepan over the fire and then drawing it 
back in anxious indecision, make up your mind 
when it will be of the right degree of heat, and there 
let it remain until the soufflee is cooked ; of course, at 
first you will find this difficult, and you may err by 
being too cautious and not allowing the saucepan heat 
enough to expand the air, and so be disappointed in 
the lightness of your pudding ; experience will help you 
better than any teaching : over a gas burner it is com- 
paratively simple, for the heat is easily regulated by the 
tap. If the water in your saucepan is gently bubbling 
at one point you may be pretty sure that the soufflee 
will cook correctly ; it must nob boil, only simmer, and 
the heat should not be directly underneath but on one 
side, and the lid must not be continually lifted to see 
if it is cooking, like children who dig up the seeds they 
have just planted to ascertain how they grow. Firstly, 
put on a large saucepan with hot water in to the depth 
of one inch, next prepare your tin. A soufflee tin is 
like one for cakes, only narrower across, and with 
deeper sides, it should measure four and a half by three 
and a half inches in depth. Grease it most thoroughly 
in every part, especially in the joins, and use fresh 
butter, the salt in kitchen butter would make it stick. 
Now take a band of cartridge or doubled kitchen paper, 
three inches in depth, butter it, and bind it with string 
round the outside of your tin so that it will be a 
support to the pudding as it rises. It must not come 
low down on the tin, not so far as to touch the water, 
which it would draw up into the mixture ; have a 
similar piece, about four inches square, with which to 
cover the top ; if this is omitted, the steam which is 
condensed on the lid of the saucepan drops into the 
souffle'e and spoils it. They take such a short time to 
mix and deteriorate so rapidly if not cooked imme- 
diately, that it is alwoya T&ra&Kurs to\sre^»3fe^h& tin 
ifeifc 



147 

For a Vanilla SouraLiE yon will want one oz. of 
flour, one oz. of butter, one gill of milk, one oz. of 
castor sugar, four eggs, and half a teaspoonful of 
flavouring. Melt the butter, mix in the flour, add 
the milk, stir it smoothly whilst it boils and cooks 
until the panada comes freely from the sides of the 
saucepan, and when it is a trifle cooler beat in the 
three yolks vigorously, one by one — off the fire — 
sweeten and flavour it. The flour you use must be 
the very best, either Vienna or pastry whites. Now 
whip the four whites to the stiffest possible froth ; 
an egg-beater is helpful, but it can be done as well upon 
a plate with a broad-bladed knife, if you keep the blade 
of the knife very parallel to the surface of the plate 
and turn the whole of the egg well over it each time. 
It is no use tickling it with the tip ; and if begun badly 
they are twice the trouble to whip ; get them well over at 
once, and keep all equally beaten, to do which you may 
have to turn the plate round now and then. New laid 
eggs are almost essential for soufflees ; the fresher the 
egg the stiffer the froth. If not new laid, break them 
separately, lest one should be bad, and always be care- 
ful that none of the yolk falls in, it will increase the 
difficulty in whipping them, whilst a pinch of salt or 
sugar will materially assist. This froth must be mixed 
in most perfectly, or there will be streaks of white and 
streaks of yellow ; at the same time, it must be very 
lightly done — a spoonful at a time, or the white will go 
down. Directly it is of an even consistency and colour, 
pour the mixture into the tin and set it in your sauce- 
. pan with greased paper over the top, put the lid on, 
and don't look at it for quite ten minutes. You may 
then safely take a peep and see how it is getting on ; if 
far up the paper, it has risen too quickly ; it should 
come up very evenly and gradually, and when done will 
feel firm to the touch if pressed in the centre. It is 
most important it should have just the correct time, 
just long enough to harden the egg sufficient ta ts\s&a 
it stand, sad yet not long enough to fcrofc orofc ^Qn&ts&b- 



148 

prisoned air, or on turning out it will wrinkle down like 
a crushed opera-hat. If not quite done, the sides bulge 
out and eventually crack. Great care is needed in 
turning a souffle'e out of its tin. As with puddings, 
don't be in a hurry; cut the string and remove the 
paper, lift up the tin, slope it towards you, and turn it 
round, so that the soufflee falls away from the sides ; 
don't use a knife, it will cut the edges and give it a 
ragged appearance. When quite free turn it gently on 
to a dish and lift off the tin, of which you must never 
lose hold, or its weight would crush the pudding. Strain 
your sauce round it without splashing, and serve it at 
once. Almost any sweet sauce can be used. You will 
find a nice one made in this way : — Boil one oz. of lump 
sugar in a tablespoonful of water until there is only one 
tablespoonf ul of thick syrup left ; put to it one glass of 
sherry, one tablespoonful of marmalade, a squeeze of 
lemon juice, and enough cochineal to make it a pleasant 
cherry colour. Any sort of jam will do ; if a red one, 
less cochineal is wanted ; but none are so pretty as the 
coloured marmalade. Directly your jam is warmed 
through, the sauce is ready to strain. A Lemon Soufflee 
is very nearly the same, only differing in quantities, the 
way the flavouring is added, and the sort of flour used : 
one and a half ozs. of butter, one and a half ozs. of 
sugar, one and a half ozs. arrowroot, one lemon, four 
eggs, and half a pint of milk. Being larger, it will 
require steaming from thirty to forty minutes. Both 
this and the Vanilla might be baked, in which case no 
sauce would be required. Peel the lemon extremely 
thin, and put the rind in your half a pint of milk in 
a warm place to steep. This will extract the flavour ; 
and in the same way you could use Vanilla bean, cin- 
namon stick, orange peel, &c. ; or, you might add to your 
milk one tablespoonful of strong coffee, or of grated choco- 
late. Rub the one and a half oz. of lump sugar over the 
surface of the lemon and dissolve it in the milk. Yon 
will noUce^ from the proportion observed in the ingredi- 
ents of the vanilla sou&£e, Vfoafo to \taa\HML ^a& ^V^sjai 



149 

I should use two ozs. of flour, and yet I have only one 

and a half of arrowroot ; arrowroot being more starchy 

and lighter than flour enables me to do with less, at all 

times the smaller quantity you use the better, provided 

the soufllee will stand ; potato flour is sometimes used 

in place of flour. Make and mix it precisely like the 

last, cook it in the same manner, only longer ; a custard 

goes well with it made thus. After you have strained 

the milk to your flour and butter, pour upon the lemon 

rind one gill of milk, and let it steep for twenty minutes, 

beat up the yolks of two eggs with one dessert-spoonful of 

castor sugar and strain the milk to them in a jug or 

measure, which you must stand in [boiling water whilst 

you stir, until it has thickened to the consistency of 

good cream. Continue stirring for a minute or so after 

it has left the boiling water (eggs retain heat some time, 

and it might yet curdle), then strain it into the dish. 

Souffle*es cannot be made of egg powders in place of the 

eggs, the powder lacks the albumen, the substance of 

which the soufllee is almost entirely composed. Those 

which are steamed should always be turned out of their 

tins, those you bake are sent to table in them; in neither 

case should the tins be washed, they must be wiped out 

with a dry cloth, and any pieces adhering scraped off 

with a knife ; if wetted the next soufllee cooked in them 

sticks. For a Cheese Fondxte the ingredients are one 

oz. of butter, three quarters of an oz. of flour, one gill 

of water or milk, but water is a little lighter, two ozs. 

of grated Parmesan cheese, one teaspoonful of mignonette 

pepper, salt, cayenne, and three eggs. No cheese but 

Parmesan is really suitable for cooking, owing to its 

strong flavour ; hard dry Stilton, Brie, Cheshire, or 

Gloucester are, however, occasionally substituted. Melt 

the butter and fry in it the mignonette pepper, which is 

nothing more than white peppercorns coarsely bruised, 

strain the butter into another saucepan containing the 

flour, mix them, add the milk or water, cook the panada, 

beat in the yolks one by one off the fire, stir in the cheese 

and seasoning, and lastly the whipped ^^atefc. "^wst "Sfcsi 



150 

mixture into a prepared tin and place it in a very 
quick oven, no paper is needed to cover it with. You 
must not go to the oven for at least ten minutes, and 
when you do, don't slam the door, a sudden draught of 
cold air would check its rising. When it is cooked 
enough it will probably have risen to the top of the 
paper and begins to sink immediately on leaving the 
oven, so that the dishing up must be done expeditiously. 
Tear away the paper, fold a napkin prettily round, 
sprinkle some grated cheese over, and send it to table 
as quickly as possible. Owing to the speed with which 
soufflees sink they are awkward dishes for a dinner party, 
you need to calculate nicely the time the earlier courses 
of the dinner will occupy, and it is better the guests 
should wait than the soufflee. If you have a proper 
soufflee dish, slip the tin into it as flower pots are put 
in fancy ones for table decoration. In some there is a spirit 
lamp beneath which should be lighted, and will keep 
the fondue from falling. Most cooks send a soufflee to 
the dining room door on a hot shovel, or with a hot 
salamander held over. This mixture is occasionally put 
into paper cases and served as Ramaquins, but it is not 
correct. When fruit, such as green gooseberries and 
apples, are made into soufflees, they must be stewed to 
^exceedingly stiff marmalade, We or no flour is 
used ; vegetables, too, such as chestnuts and potatoes, 
sometimes form the main ingredient. Do not be dis- 
appointed if you have many failures, soufflees are 
admittedly difficult ; it has been said with truth, the 
best of cooks will occasionally fail in them through no 
real fault of her own. 

An Omelette-Sottffl£e is something between an 
omelette and a soufflee ; it is an omelette in that there 
are an equal number of yokes and whites, and a soufflee 
in that the whites are whipped separately, previous to 
being added. Any number of eggs can be used : two 
being the fewest, any jam or flavouring also, provided 
it is sweet. My favourite way of making them is to 
form a syrup with, hali an oi. oi svugwc, «b& <$&& table- 



151 

spoonful of rose or orange flower water, by dissolving 
them over the fire and boiling until reduced somewhat 
to about one half, then adding this to the yolks of two 
eggs, which must be creamed to a froth ; stir them contin- 
uously with a wooden spoon, they gradually grow lighter 
in colour, and increase in bulk ; add to them gently and 
thoroughly their whites, stiffly whipped, and your ome- 
lette is ready for cooking. Make hot in a frying-pan six 
inches in diameter, half an oz. of butter, only enough really 
to grease the pan, in this sort of omelette the butter does 
not form an ingredient ; in a plain one such as 1 shall 
show you presently, it does, and the more you use the 
richer the omelette. Pour in the mixture and give it one 
or two light stirs round, hold it over a slow fire for 
about two minutes to set the under side : be sure the- 
heat is not great enough to blacken it, then put pan and 
all into a very quick oven for three minutes, or it may be 
cooked in front of a very fierce fire, though the oven is 
better. Whilst it is cooking get together what you 
require for serving it, a hot dish, a dredger containing 
castor sugar and a knife. As in the case of the fondue, 
don't open the oven door too often, look in about two 
minutes : if it has swollen, is a delicate fawn colour, 
and, when you shake the pan, looks firm in the centre, 
it is cooked, and must not be left in longer, or it will 
sink, wrinkle up, and taste tough. 1 am sure you will 
excuse me for reminding you that the handle of the pan 
is hot, and must be grasped with a cloth ; hands have 
been fearfully seared through forgetfulness of this. 
Quickly run your knife round the edge, to be sure it is 
free, and shake it out, topsy-turvy, upon the dish, 
rapidly fold it in half, sprinkle over some sugar dust, 
and serve. It may be made " aux confitures " by slipping 
in a spoonful of heated jam as you fold it over. This 
is a comparatively easy omelette, as no manipulation is 
required. A Plain Omelette has been said to require 
promptness and decision of character, for it should not 
only be made, but eaten in the space of three minutes. 
An omelette is simply eggs and ita^o\xf\x^, TCft&xss^ 



152 

more ; directly flour or milk is added it ceases to be an 
omelette, and becomes batter or custard. The flavour- 
ing may be what you like, providing it is cooked, or 
needs no cooking, and is chopped up very small: 
parsley, mushrooms, shallot, herbs need no cooking; 
ham, tongue, kidney, fish, must all be cooked and finely 
shredded, they will be found delicious for a breakfast 
dish. You may take as many eggs as you please, from 
two to twelve, though the larger number requires great 
dexterity and practice, two would be safer for you to 
commence with : the size of the pan must, of course, be 
always proportionate to the number of eggs. II the 
pan is new, or has been wetted, it requires seasoning. 
"Warm some fat in it until it is intensely hot, burnt, in 
fact, pour it away, and quickly and vigorously rub out 
the pan with paper, it will come as bright as when 
new, and there will be no danger of your omelette 
sticking. Beat the eggs, yolk and white together, with 
your seasoning and flavouring, there is one desert- 
spoonful of grated Parmesan in this, melt one oz. of 
butter in the pan, and let it get hot, pour in the mix- 
ture and stir vigorously from the sides and bottom 
until it begins to set, mixing the butter in as you do so, 
raise the handle of the pan and scrape it all to the 
further side, let it just set, slip a spoon behind, and roll 
it over to the opposite side, at the same time lowering 
the handle of your pan ; when firm on both sides, slip it 
on to a hot dish, and serve with a sprinkling of cheese 
over. There is no great difficulty in it, it must be 
quickly done, so that the centre is still- liquid, and the 
outside only just enough hardened to hold together. 
The English cook's idea of an omelette has been some- 
what justly defined as something between a very tough 
pancake and a piece of wash-leather.* 



See page 38. 



153 



SEVENTH LESSON, 



ENTREMETS. 

Entremets are second course dishes, and may be either 
savoury or sweet. In this lesson I shall give two 
examples of each. I have already shown you an 
entremet de legumes. In the term 'entremets sucreV are 
included all descriptions of what we call sweets. 

A great variety may be produced with the help of 
aspic jelly; Russian Salad, for instance, is an extremely 
pretty dish and a very simple one. To make it you 
must have one pint of aspic jelly, one pint of mixed 
vegetables in fancy shapes, some gherkins, and, if liked, 
olives and anchovies, tarragon and chervil too, when 
they are in season. It should be made in a quart bor- 
der mould, so called because when turned out there 
will be only a border of jelly with a space in the centre. 
Have as great a variety of vegetables as you can obtain, 
the points of ' sprue,' or thin asparagus, lengths of 
carrot, turnip, cucumber, or new potatoes cut with a 
French vegetable cutter, peas, beans, sprigs of white 
cauliflower, and so forth. Scald the mould, rinse it 
with cold water, and leave it wet. If you want to use 
your Russian salad the same day, you must put the 
mould in a basin, and pack ice round it, if not until the 
next, and the weather is cool, it can be set without ice, 
but it will take a long time. "Warm the aspic jelly* 
just enough to make it liquid, and pour a couple of 
spoonfuls into the mould, next arrange a layer of vege- 
tables, alternately asparagus, turnip, and carrot, for 
instance, cut in equal lengths, and, slanting a little to 
the right, pour in enough jelly to set them firm, and 
add another row of different colour leaning in the 
opposite direction, then, perhaps, some white sprigs of 
the cauliflower and green peas, forming with them any 

* See p. V12. 



154 



device your fancy may dictate ; with time and p; 
very elaborate and effective designs can be wori 
in the various colours. Each row must have < 
jelly poured over to hold it, and it must get . quil 
before more is added. Be careful not to garnisl 
a weight of vegetables leaning in one direction, 01 
inevitably crack on being turned out. I woulc 
you against using beetroot; although the colour is e 
it frequently spoils the jelly by running and givi 
blurred appearance. The gherkins should be < 
ingly small, or else cut into shapes ; capers i 
substituted for them. Olives must be stone 
neither they nor anchovies must be used if prese: 
oil, but in brine ; the latter must be wiped dry, i 
intopieoes. The greenleaves of the tarragon andche 
a great help in the decoration, and so is Australia: 
A much quicker and very passable way of add 
vegetables to the jelly is to pour it when nearly cc 
the mould, and then sprinkle them in carelessly 
once, they settle themselves with tolerably good 
and it takes less time and patience than wait 
each layer to get firm separately. When the 
turned out, the centre should be filled with th 
sort of vegetables, &c, that are in the border 
with mayonnaise sauce. Some Russian salads on 
sist of a dish full of the macedoine in sauce and n 
others serve it in a border of plain, ungarnished j 
recommend the first as by far the most effective. A 
ling of small salad in the centre adds more 
sparkling brightness of the jelly than the may* 
and vegetables. Truffles in shapes, and white 
also can be introduced into the designs ; you w 
this the most convenient and economical way to ] 
the latter. Take as many whites as you have 
from custards, puddings, or your mayonnaise 
pour them into a greased gallipot, and stant 
boiling water with paper over the top, until it i 
then you have a good block from which to c 
shapes much less wasteiuKly t^wo. ttom < 0k& i 
a of the egg itself. 



155 

A Gateau db Feuit is an excellent dish made from 
almost any fresh fruit; in winter French plums or 
apples can be used instead. The firmest fruits are the 
best to select, such as green gooseberries, cherries, and 
plums; currants and raspberries are so juicy they would 
lose their shape. One pint of fruit, one pint of water, 
half an oz. packet of gelatine, quarter of a pound of 
sugar, a squeeze of lemon juice, and half a pint of 
whipped cream to serve with it in the centre; for 
gateaux, like savoury jellies, are best made in border 
moulds. Put the gelatine into a quarter of a pint of 
cold water to soak for at least ten minutes, and 
then stir it over the fire until dissolved. Boil the 
rest of the water with the sugar, and the lid off your 
saucepan, until it is reduced to one half, removing all 
scum as it rises. Stone the fruit carefully — they must 
look entire and preserve their shape — let them simmer 
very gently in the syrup until the head of a trussing 
needle or a blunt skewer goes in easily — generally from 
five to ten minutes — then mix in the dissolved gelatine 
thoroughly, or the gateau may crack in places, pour it 
into a mould which has been scalded and left wet, and 
set it on ice to cool. The kernels of stone fruit, if 
blanched, can be placed as decoration at the top. To 
make this dish look tempting great care must be be- 
stowed on not allowing the fruit to go to pieces; if 
plums or damsons are used, have a stone jar or enamelled 
pan, in which to stew the fruit, for its acid would act 
upon the tin lining of an ordinary saucepan, and 
give the juice a milky puce colour, very unsightly. 
To turn it out, dip the mould for one second into 
hot water, shake it in your hands, and reverse it 
upon the dish. Whip half a pint of double cream* 
with a dessert-spoonful of sugar to as great a stiff- 
ness as you can, and fill the centre, sprinkling over 
it some finely chopped pistachio nuts or some crimson 
sugar dust. The nuts are purple outside, but must 

* See page 1S&. 



156 

be scalded with boiling water to remove the skins, 
under which you find them a brilliant green. To colour 
sugar put a few drops of cochineal upon some lumps, 
and let them dry, then crush it in a mortar or with a 
rolling pin; hundreds and thousands might be used 
instead. A Gateau de Prunes is prepared in the same 
way ; if common prunes are used they should be soaked 
over night, and neither they nor French plums should 
be long stewed — they acquire a disagreeable medicinal 
flavour. An Apple Gateau is somewhat different : peel, 
core, and slice one pound of apples, put them, with the 
sugar and the thinly peeled rind of one lemon, in a pie 
dish in the oven or in a saucepan with half a pint of 
water, and let them stew down to a stiff marmalade. 
Rub it all through a hair sieve, strain to it the gelatine, 
and pour it in the mould to set. If the marmalade is 
divided in three, one portion whitened with cream or 
custard, another tinted with cochineal, and the third 
left green or brightened with a little spinach juice, you 
can get the gateau in layers of different colours. 

Creme Frite is, as its name implies, an entremet of 
fried cream, or a mixture as nearly approaching it as 
possible. It must be made at least two hours before it 
is cooked, that it may have time to cool and get quite 
firm. The ingredients are three dessert-spoonfuls of 
cornflower, one oz. of castor sugar, two ozs. of 
butter, two yolks and one whole egg, flavouring, and 
half a pint of cream, or, if you do not choose to afford 
so much, use a quarter of a pint of cream and a quarter 
of a pint of milk. Another egg, some cake crumbs, and 
the use of the frying fat will be needed for the cooking 
of the mixture. Melt the butter in a small saucepan, 
mix the cornflower with a little of the cream, then beat 
in the eggs with the flavouring and sugar, add the 
remainder of the cream, and pour it into the saucepan 
containing the melted butter ; stand this in another 
containing boiling water, and stir it over the fire 
most regularly and carefully until the whole has 
thickened to the consistency oi 'versf tk&i qrau&. It 



157 

is troublesome to cook without some practice, as it must 
not be overdone or it hardens too much, nor underdone 
or it will not stiffen sufficiently to enable you to fry it, 
but it well repays you for the trouble when successfully 
accomplished. If you attempt to cook the mixture 
without standing it in an impromptu " bain Marie " it 
is nearly sure to burn. Spread it about the third of an 
inch in thickness over a greased dish, and set it aside to 
cool. Rub some stale sponge cakes through a wire 
sieve for crumbs, the chips left after making a Charlotte 
Russe can be turned to account in this way, and fried 
sweets are much nicer if rolled in sweetened crumbs 
instead of those from bread ; indeed, some people use 
cake or biscuit crumbs for encasing fish, on account of 
their being finer. I have heard, too, of their being 
used already browned ; it is a mistake ; after frying 
they are too dark. Cream, made by this recipe, 
can be flavoured in a variety of ways ; any essence, or 
orange flower, or rose water can be added just before it 
is spread to cool, remembering always that it must be 
done off the fire. The essential oil, from which the flavour 
is derived, is exceedingly volatile and easily driven off 
by heat. Lemon or orange rind, cinnamon or vanilla 
bean may be steeped in the milk previous to mixing 
with the cornflour; enough chocolate to colour and 
flavour the cream may be dissolved in it, or enough 
excessively strong coffee may be added. The most 
delicate way of flavouring with coffee is to gently boil 
the unroasted berries in the milk until it is slightly 
coloured and sufficiently tasty, then strain and let it 
cool a little before pouring it to the cornflour. Put 
your frying fat on to get hot, and as soon as the pre- 
pared cream is cold and solid cut it into shapes — 
diamonds waste the least — don't have any flour near it, 
but dip the pieces straight into the egg, then crumb 
them, firm on the crumbs and lay them in a frying 
basket, which, when it is as full as it can be without 
their touching, must be lowered into very hot fat until 
the outside is just golden "brown. ^Ja&» ^sB^Tasafc* *s»xfc- 



158 

fully out with your fingers, for the intense heat has 
liquified them and they are really of the consistency of 
cream. Let them drain on whitey-brown paper by the 
fire while the rest of your dish is frying, then arrange 
them upon a table-napkin, or dish-paper, in a circle, 
each slightly overlapping its predecessor. Plentifully 
sprinkle them with fine white sugar, and let them be 
served very hot. Cremes frites are equally nice dipped 
in a frying batter,* instead of the egg and crumbs ; but 
it is more difficult to manage satisfactorily. If they 
are so light as to float, of course you must turn them. 
Any sort of fritter might be introduced as an entremet. 
All fruits are agreeable fried in batter, particularly fine 
strawberries and mulberries, the crimson and purple 
juice of which stains the batter and adds to the effect of 
the dish. Peaches, nectarines, greengages, plums, and, 
indeed, nearly all others are much improved by lying, 
cut in slices, for some hours in a marinade of brandy 
or liqueur, then roll them in plenty of powdered sugar 
before the batter, or you will find them too juicy for it 
to adhere. In making fritters of very small fruit you 
must drop two or three into the batter together, take 
them up in a spoon, and dexterously slip them into the 
fat as one fritter. 

New ways of cooking cheese are generally acceptable, 
and I think you will be pleased with the next entre- 
met I shall show you, Aigrettes de Pabmesah. Put into 
half a pint of hot water one oz. of butter, and, when it is 
boiling very fast, plunge in all at once four oz. of the 
finest Vienna flour, or potato flour, and beat it imme- 
diately backwards and forwards with a wooden spoon 
vigorously until it is perfectly smooth. Part of the 
beating must be done over the fire to cook the flour, 
which is most important in all hot water pastes, as the 
sudden heat bursts the starch grains, and makes them 
thicken, but does not cook it. Stir in off the fire two 
ozs. of grated Parmesan, pepper, cayenne, (no salt, you 

See t>, 42. 



159 

observe), the yolks of two eggs, and lastly the whipped 
white of one, taking care you do not destroy its light- 
ness in so doing. If you have time this should, like 
the creme, first be spread on a dish to cool, but it is not 
absolutely necessary, the mixture can be cooked at once. 
There are three ways of frying it, dipped in batter, in 
egg and crumbs, or without any covering. For the two 
former you must let it get cold and solid, then form it 
into shapes, and cook them in a frying basket ; for the 
latter take up morsels, about half a teaspoonful, and 
drop them into plenty of boiling fat. Never mind what 
shape they are, the rougher the prettier, but do not let 
them be large, or they will not cook through — a good 
sized saucepan should hold about twenty at a time. 
They sink when first put in, but soon float, and as each 
becomes crisp and turns a pale brown, skim it out with 
a wire spoon or fish slice, drain it on paper, and then 
roll it in very fine salt. They should be served in 
several small dishes ; many together on top of one ano- 
ther lose their crispness. 



EIGHTH LESSON. 



PASTBY. 

You may, perhaps, be astonished at the quantity of 
butter I shall use in this lesson. I would have 
you remember that I am now teaching you the very 
best pastries, and therefore I do not curtail the 
allowance of either butter or eggs. You have already 
had one upon the plainer descriptions of short and 
flaky crust, and if you have really mastered the way 
of making them, it may safely be left to you to vary 
the richness at discretion. We hear constantly that 
you cannot be a good pastry-maker without a " light 
hand;" this is not quite coneefc — ^ <so&.\isx^^ss^ 



160 

be truer, for the secret of making it light is to get 
the butter in without heating it in the process ; but 
there are rules to be attended to carefully, and 
by their help anyone ought to be able to produce 
good crust. Quite half the battle lies in the 
baking, especially with Puff Pastry, which may be 
perfect before it is cooked, and then an utter failure. 
All pastries, except those made with cheese, require 
a quick oven ; in a slow one the butter melts out 
before the flour is sufficiently hardened to retain 
it, leaving the crust dry and chippy. A quarter of a 
lb. is the smallest quantity of puff it is possible to 
make with satisfaction ; half a lb. is even better ; you 
cannot do yourself justice with so little. You will want 
half lb. Vienna flour, half lb. fresh butter, yolk of 
an egg, lemon, a pinch of salt, and four or more table- 
spoonfuls of cold water as you may require. The best 
flour, you remember, always takes up the most water, 
and for good pastry it is essential you should use the 
driest and lightest kind, Vienna, made from the red 
wheats grown on the banks of the Danube. Fresh 
butter also is necessary, because of the absence of salt, 
which would tend to make the crust heavy ; if, how- 
ever, none is obtainable, the remedy is to knead what 
you have under the tap until the salt is washed out. 
It is scarcely needful to mention that pastry should not 
be made in a hot kitchen, but in the coolest place avail- 
able, and, if you have it, upon slate or marble; in summer 
the butter should have been kept upon ice. The making 
of Puff Paste occupies some time, quite one hour and 
a quarter, as it must stand aside between each rolling, 
in order that it may cool ; friction produces heat, and, 
if it had its seven rollings one after the other, the 
butter would be so soft it would not blend with the 
flour. Place the butter in a cloth, roll it up and press 
out the water without making it hot or out of shape. 
Put a quarter of a pound of flour on your board, and 
make a well in the centre. Beat up the yolk of an 
egg with a pinch of salt, a \^-«?gM>T&aL ol lemon juice, 



161 

two table-spoonfuls of cold water in a tea-cup, and 
pour it little by little into the middle of the flour, 
mixing it at the same time with the other hand, never 
letting it get so dry as to be stringy, nor working in 
dry lumps of flour. If you need more water don't 
hesitate to add it ; the paste is to be of the same con- 
sistency as the butter, and it is a mistake to fancy 
water makes it eat hard ; if the paste is too stiff the 
butter cannot work into it, and squeezes out at each 
roll. It is also a mistake to imagine that you must 
not handle it much — tout au contraire, now that you 
have worked in all the dry flower, roll it into a ball, 
scrape from your board all the dry lumps left there, 
and gently knead the paste until it is like soft putty, 
perfectly mixed, quite elastic, and the same all through. 
You cannot hurt it, however much you work it about 
in its present state, for the butter is not in. I must 
warn you that all through the manufacture of Puff Paste 
the board must be kept perfectly free from pieces, and 
as little flower sprinkled upon it as you can possibly do 
with. It is a common error with beginners to work in 
afterwards almost as much as they originally started 
with. Roll the ball of paste straight out from you 
until it is at least twice the size of the pressed butter, 
which you must then lay on one half, fold the other 
over, and press the edges well together, as you would 
those of a turnover. This does not count as one roll, it 
is to have seven in all, and it is now ready for the 
first. Turn it round so that the two joined sides are 
opposite to you, and roll straight from you as far as 
you can, rolling always in one direction — from you or 
to you — but on no account from side to side. Neither 
must you press more heavily on one end of the pin 
than the other, or the flakes will rise unevenly in the 
oven. In rolling it is not necessary to press heavily, 
what you want is rather a sort of forward push 
which stretches out the crust. The best rolling pin 
to select is a plain round one mttaowk \rau&s& \r&> 
perfectly straight; those that \rolfc& \n Vtaa ^koSb» 



162 

are useless. Now fold the pastry in three, and again 
turn it, so as to bring the two open sides opposite 
you. Roll it out again as far as you possibly can, fold 
it as before, and set it on a plate in a cool place for at 
least a quarter of an hour ; it will not hurt if you can 
afford time for it to stand longer, but it must be at 
least a quarter of an hour. It has now had two rollings ; 
in intensely hot weather it is better to give it only one, 
and then set it aside. It must be folded each time with 
the greatest care ; all the three pieces must be of equal 
size and not doubled in heedlessly ; unless it is very 
neatly done, the flakes are irregular and the patties, or 
vol-au-vent case, for which it is used, will topple over in the 
oven. Give the paste two more rollings at the end of 
the fifteen minutes, and set it aside again, then bring 
it back for two more and send it into the cool for the 
last time ; it has had six in all, and if you have rolled evenly 
and folded it neatly, it looks and feels to the touch like 
good cream cheese, and has all four sides perfectly 
straight. When you bring it back, give the last roll 
and it is then ready for use. Puff Pastry is used for a 
vol-au-vent, patties or meat pie chiefly ; if for a vol-au- 
vent, it must be at least one inch thick when it is cut, for 
patties or a pie half an inch, and for jam tarts a quarter 
of an inch. You must have proper tin cutters the shape 
you require, and they must be dipped in boiling water, not 
in flour, as it is important to the lightness of the paste 
that it should be cut sharply and not dragged at the 
edges. Roll the paste out now to the requisite thickness, 
and stamp out your vol-au-vent or patty cases, which 
you lift in the cutfcer and shake straight on to the baking 
tin that they may not be marked by handling. There 
is no need to grease the tin, puff is so rich it is not likely 
to stick. As I have warned you to use as little flour as 
possible while rolling out this pastry, I need hardly 
remark that there should be no appearance of any when 
it is being used. After cutting the blook for a vol-au- 
vent, or patty, take a cutset ol Vtaa sax&fc fehooe, but two 
sizes smaller, dip it in t\ie \»\^^^^»x,%^%\3wk%'^ 



163 

into the centre of the pastry, pressing it two thirds of 
the way in; when it is baked the centre will be separate 
from the sides and can easily be raised with a couple of 
knives, leaving a space for the lobster or chicken. The 
top only must be brushed over with white of egg, but I 
prefer to do it in the oven, not now ; egg catches very 
quickly and would look burnt. Place the baking sheet 
in a very hot oven from ten to fifteen minutes, one where 
the heat is underneath is far the best, there is less like- 
lihood of the patty case being drawn to one side and 
rising crookedly, a vol-au-vent case requires even longer. 
Until you have sufficient experience to tell the heat of 
your oven by putting in your hand, the best test is to put in 
an odd piece of the pastry, or you can sprinkle some flour 
on a tin and judge from the speed with which it browns. 
Do not go to the oven too soon, opening the door cools 
it considerably, and checks its rising; when you do, don't 
keep it open longer than you can help. The pastry 
may need turning, and be most careful not to take it 
rut before it is thoroughly cooked ; it soon blows up if 
it is light, and, not unlike a souffiee, will sink somewhat 
afterwards if you have not allowed sufficient time for 
the flour to harden. Of course you must not go to the 
opposite extreme and overbake it. Burnt pastry is 
uneatable. From the remains, with a cutter one size 
larger than that used for stamping out the centre, cut 
some pieces to use as covers — they shrink in baking, 
and will be the exact size ; for a vol-au-vent a number 
of small ones can be placed round the edge instead 
of one large one. These should be baked separately, 
they require less time than the cases, and if put 
in with them must be sacrificed. As soon as the 
pastry is baked, remove the soft piece from the 
centre, and fill it with a rich salpicpn* of either fowl, 
game, oyster, or lobster. If your oven is so hot as 
to colour pastry almost immediately it goes in, it is 
too hot, and will incline to prevent its being li^ht i n&ft 

See p. 120. 



164 

a piece of greased paper to cover it with, this will 
it from browning too much. Seven is the magic 
ber for Puff Pastry, and some suppose an extn 
will spoil it. It is sometimes an improvement ; 
sionally it is too light to rise evenly without being : 
eight times. If you intend to use it for a meal 
roll it the shape of your dish, but half an inch h 
cut a strip off the outside, wet the dish, lay this 
it, wet or egg the strip of paste and lay the whole 
press the two together with your thumbs just i 
the edge, raise the dish in your left hand, and ^ 
knife dipped in boiling water, trim the sides 
cutting always from you, and keeping the poi: 
the knife slanted from the pie. Make a hole ii 
middle ; this should never be neglected in a pie of 
meat, I know of several instances where people 
been ill from its omission, owing to the imprison 
of the gases generated during baking. It can be hi 
by leaves or flowers cut from the trimmings ol 
pastry, but it must not be wholly covered. Yoi 
decorate a meat pie in any way you please, exce; 
the edge, where you must leave the flakes free to 
it should be glazed with yolk of egg and water " 
nearly done. Its baking requires management, fo 
crust wants half an hour in a very quick oven, an< 
meat two hours in a slow one, to get which you 
sacrifice the crust unless you consider the pastry first 
then put the pie, with greased paper over it, on a c 
shelf in your oven, or outside on the top, for the 
to stew gently. Stewing the meat separately doe! 
produce nearly so savoury a dish. For tartlets, ro 
should be stamped out with a cutter a size larger 
the patty pan in which you cook them, and a dui 
or a baked ball of flour and water, placed in the c< 
to prevent its rising. The jam should not be cook 
them. 

Genoese Pastry is almost a cake ; it is chiefly 
for building up gateaux, for \oniToW wA fe^ulmchec 
The ingredients are b\x oza. ol Xra&tot, «\x ^ 



165 

flour, seven eggs, eight ozs. of castor sugar, and it 
must bake from thirty to forty minutes. Melt the 
butter slowly, shake the Vienna flour through a wire 
sieve to be sure it is not lumpy, put the sugar into a 
large basin, and break the new laid eggs into it. Take 
a round baking tin, about ten inches across and three 
in depth ; if it is copper, a saute pan for instance, all 
the better ; the heat from copper is more regular, but 
tin will serve. Cut a round of thick cartridge paper, 
eighteen inches across, and brush over it plenty of your 
melted butter, of thinner paper use two or three 
sheets, fit it into your tin, and carefully set folds round 
the edge so that they lie quite flat, otherwise they 
would be embedded in the pastry. Now stand the 
basin containing the eggs and sugar over a saucepan of 
boiling water and whip vigorously for twenty minutes, 
by then it should be so light as to fill the basin. If 
your china is thin don't let the water boil all the while ; 
you want just heat enough to slightly stiffen the eggs as 
you froth them. I believe the secret of a good Genoese 
lies quite as much in the way you add the butter and 
flour as in the whipping ; they must be got in thoroughly 
and evenly with only one or two turns of the whisk. 
Stand the basin on your board, pour the butter round 
(it must not be at all hot), stir it in lightly, sprinkle 
all the flour over the top, and rapidly mix it in with a 
few quick stirs, first to the right, and then to the left, 
after which pour it at once into the prepared tin, and 
set it in a good oven. Greased paper must be put over 
the top if it browns too quickly, and, if it catches 
underneath you must stand it upon a tray of sand. 
Grated lemon rind, or the essence can be added for 
flavouring. To test if it is done press the centre with 
your finger, and if it feels firm turn it out at once on 
to a wire sieve or cane-bottomed chair, and tear away 
the paper. It is intended to be eaten cold, and can be 
soaked with wine, cut in slices with jam between, iced 
with coloured sugar, and garnished with ^ri&^K&. 
cream according to taste. It is i\te mosfc ^as^swtfs^fe *& 
all the pastries. 



166 

Short Crust is very simple : eight ozs. of flour, six 
ozs. of butter, half an oz. of castor sugar, yolk of an 
egg, lemon juice and cold water. Rub the butter 
lightly into the flour and sugar, and mix it with 
the egg, lemon juice, and water, beaten together. Be 
careful to handle it as little as possible in hot weather, 
or you will make it into paste without any liquid. 
Flour your board and pin slightly, and roll the paste 
out only once ; don't turn it over or fold it, but you 
may roll it in any direction, as there are no flakes to 
injure. As you have seen a fruit pie made, you know 
how to cover it.* It is a delusion to imagine a cup in 
the centre of the dish saves the juice, it does not; 
it saves some fruit inasmuch as it occupies the place of 
it, but all the while the pie is baking it is empty, and 
only when it comes into the cold air does the cup suck 
up the juice. Snipping the edge of the crust with 
scissors makes a pretty decoration for a fruit pie. 
Half an hour will bake it ; you can see when the crust 
is cooked, and when the fruit is, it boils and steam 
escapes. In winter the yolk of an eg$ is not quite so 
necessary, though it always enriches the pastry; the 
lemon juice helps to make it light, and also to digest 
the baked butter. 

Cheese Straws must be very slowly baked, they 
scarcely need more than drying ; over-cooked cheese is 
most objectionable and bitter. Put two ozs. of Vienna 
flour, two ozs. of grated Parmesan, and two ozs. of 
butter, with salt and cayenne (about as much as would 
cover a threepenny-piece), into a basin, and rub them 
lightly together, as though making short crust ; mix it 
with the yolk of an egg and a squeeze of lemon juice 
only, no water at all ; the whole character of them is 
changed if you add any, all the brittle crispness is gone, 
and they taste like ordinary crust flavoured with cheese. 
Some people do it because they are easier to make up. 
Knead the paste thoroughly together, and roll it out to 

* See pa^e 5&. 



167 

the thickness of one-eight of an inch, and to the breadth 
of five inches, Cut the sides straight, and make the 
straws by taking off strips the whole way across, a 
quarter of an inch wide. Carry them on your knife 
to the tin, which need not be greased, and lay them 
perfectly straight. It is so short you will experience 
some difficulty in doing this, they break easily, and 
must be handled as little as possible. From the re- 
maining pieces, kneaded up and rolled out again, stamp 
some rings with round cutters of two sizes, and bake 
them with the straws in a slow oven, until they are 
fawn colour. If you can leave them on the tin until 
cold they are easier to serve. Place five or six straws 
in each ring, like a bundle of faggots ; arrange them 
prettily on a napkin, and sprinkle some grated cheese 
over. This mixture is sometimes made into biscuits, 
but it is not quite correct. 



NINTH LESSON. 



PTTDDnreS AND THEIR SAUCES. 

In fancy puddings there are scarcely any principles 
involved. As a rule, we prefer steaming them to boiling 
— they are lighter, and do not lose their richness in 
the water; those with much suet, however, cannot be well 
steamed — they would scarcely cook through. Vennoise 
looks much like a rich plum pudding, and yet is made 
without butter, suet, or flour. Five ozs. of crumbs of 
bread, three ozs. of sultanas, three ozs. of castor 
sugar, four eggs, two ozs. of candied peel, one oz. 
of lump sugar, one glass of sherry, a quarter of a pint 
of cream, and half a pint of milk. Though the founda- 
tion is bread, no one would detect it if properly made. 
Cut five ozs. of the crumb of a loaf into small dice, 
put them in a basin with the svugpx. ^stel Kka *su 



168 

of lump sugar in a small saucepan until it is dark 
brown; nothing is put with it whilst it burns. When it 
is the right colour, pour in the milk, and let it simmer 
until coffee colour, then strain it on to the dice, cover 
with a plate, and let it stand, if possible, until cold— 
this is to allow time for the bread to be coloured all 
through ; if made hastily, pieces of white are visible on 
cutting it. Meanwhile, shred the peel finely, and clean 
the sultanas by rubbing them in a cloth with flour, 
which removes both stalks and dirt, beat the yolks of your 
four eggs with the wine and cream, and, if the milk is 
cold enough, mix all together. You know by now that 
the egg will be spoilt if it is too hot; the whites are not 
used in this pudding. Prepare a pudding mould by 
rubbing it everywhere with butter, and have a piece of 
greased paper for a covering — those tins with lids made 
expressly for this purpose are a mistake, the lid being 
fastened prevents the pudding from rising, however 
light it may be- — any mould will do, only it cannot 
be used afterwards for jellies. Pour your pudding in, 
it may quite fill it, the paper is so light it is no bar to its 
rising. You must twist it round close to the top of the 
mould, stand it in a saucepan containing boiling water 
to the depth of one inch, where it will cook for one 
hour and a quarter. At the same time, put a kettle on, 
that you may have water with which to replenish it as 
it may require. 

Ten minutes before serving make some Gebmait 
Sauce with the yolks of two eggs, one dessert-spoonful of 
castor sugar, and one wine-glassful of sherry. Put 
them in a saucepan over a slow fire, stand a whisk 
upright in it, place your hands, stretched out, one on 
each side of the handle, and rub them backwards and 
forwards; this is called milling, and will produce a 
thick froth, which you must have just heat enough to 
stiffen or it returns to a liquid state when poured in 
the dish ; too much heat curdles and spoils the eggs. 
For a plum pudding I should use one glass of brandy 
extra, and four yolks. "Remove ^fc a ^gvge£fosia.th& Yen- 



169 

noise, shake the mould slightly, put a dish over the top, 
reverse it and raise the tin, pour the sauce round and 
serve. It is an extremely easy dish to prepare, always 
turns out successfully, and is much approved. Cabinet 
Punnnre is not quite so simple ; it must be steamed 
with more care, lest the custard should spoil. It is of 
no consequence how fast the water boils for the Yen* 
noise, for this it must gently simmer. The ingredients 
are four sponge-cakes, two ozs. of ratafias, one oz. of 
sugar, four eggs, one pint of milk, cherries, angelica, 
and vanilla. It is made in a souflee-tin,* which you 
grease and line with sponge-cakes. If you cut the 
cakes in four you can arrange them with a white and a 
brown side outwards alternately. Arrange at the bottom 
some fancy dried fruits, and half fill the centre with 
broken pieces of cake and ratafias. Beat the yolks of 
four eggs and one white, with the milk, sugar, and 
flavouring to taste, and strain the custard into the tin, 
a little at a time, so as to allow the cakes to absorb it. 
It is easy to make a cabinet pudding stand if it is 
nearly all cake ; it ought to be chiefly custard, and only 
just enough cake to stiffen it. Cover with greased 
paper and steam it like the Vennoise, only more slowly 
— it will want from three quarters of an hour to one 
hour. Look at it in twenty minutes, and if it has 
risen considerably the heat is too great ; it must rise a 
little, but not so much that it will sink on being turned 
out. To ascertain if it is cooked feel the top ; unless 
it is quite firm the sides will bulge and crack. Avoid 
using a knife to free it from the tin ; patience it is sure 
to want, and it should be allowed to stand a minute 
first; it slirinks from the sides of itself. Turn it 
carefully on to a dish and serve with custard of the 
. same ilavouring or German sauce. It is intended to 
be eaten hot, but is almost equally nice cold. Cold 
cabinet pudding is a totally different mixture. You 
arrange in a mould layers of sponge cakes soaked in 

* See p. 146. 



170 

wine, jam, ratafias, and custard in which half an oz. 
of gelatine has been dissolved, and allow it to set 
until firm. The only difficulty is not to use too much 
wine or jam, as they possess no stiffening properties 
and would make it crack. In making custards, 
whether to eat alone or as ingredients in another 
pudding, bear in mind that the fewer whites you can 
use the richer and softer they will be. Three whole 
eggs could be substituted for the four yolks and one 
white; you would be more sure of the pudding 
turning out creditably, but its delicacy would be 
gone ; it would be poor and solid. 

Amber pudding is useful, inasmuch as it is an autumn 
and winter dish when it is troublesome to produce 
varieties. Its foundation is an apple marmalade, made 
by stewing six apples (previously peeled, cored, and 
sliced), with the rind and juice of a lemon, two ozs. of 
butter, and three ozs. of moist sugar, until they .are 
reduced to a complete pulp. This can be done either 
in the oven or over the fire. line a pie-dish half way 
down with a strip of short crust, and grease the bottom 
of the dish. Pass the apples through a hair sieve, 
beat into the marmalade the yolks of three eggs, and 
turn it into the dish. Ornament the edge of the 
pastry round as you please, either by laying fancy pieces 
upon it, by cutting it in strips, and bending the alter- 
nate ones inwards, or by snipping it with scissors. 
Bake it now for fifteen minutes. Beat the whites of 
your eggs * on a plate to a very stiff froth, and after it 
is done beat into them some lemon essence. Nothing 
is more insipid than white of egg, it is a decidedly 
objectionable garnish that tastes of nothing, but if you 
flavour them before whipping you will never get them 
up, only sugar should be added then. Cover the pud- 
ding with the froth, heaped high in the centre, and 
smoothed with a knife. Place in it at intervals pieces 
of dried fruits, cherries, angelica, and so on, and plenti- 

* See page \4H • 



171 

fully sprinkle it with castor sugar. Now, return it to 
the oven, which should not be at all fierce, for quite 
another quarter of an hour. It is a common mistake 
to leave it only long enough to blow up still further 
and take a colour, the consequence of which is that it 
soon sinks on coming out, and eventually runs away in 
its original state. It must remain in until it is solidi- 
fied all through, and yet be no darker than fawn colour. 
When apples are out of season, this, by a slight altera- 
tion, can be converted into the Queen op Puddings. 
Instead of the marmalade, substitute a quarter of a 
pint of bread crumbs soaked in a quarter of a pint of 
sherry and a quarter of a pint of cream, beat in the 
eggs, and bake it. Let it get quite cold, spread apricot 
marmalade over, and cover with whipped cream, or, if 
you wish to be economical, use the whites instead. 

Apple Charlotte is generally made with the same 
sort of apple marmalade, only staffer. A very nice but 
more homely way is the following : Butter some thin 
slices of bread thickly on both sides, and line a tin 
with them, shake plenty of sugar round, place a layer 
of sliced apple at the bottom and cover with sugar and 
another slice of doubly buttered bread, then more apple 
and sugar, and so on until the tin is quite full, when 
it must be baked in a good oven for one hour to one 
and a half hours, it will then be a dark brown and much 
like French caramel. The great point is to have enough 
butter and sugar, and the juice of a lemon must also be 
used to give piquancy. 

For Lemon Pudding you will require two oz. cake 
crumbs, two lemons, two oz. castor sugar, two table- 
spoonfuls of milk, and two of cream, two eggs, and 
some short crust. In some recipes one inch of cinnamon 
stick is included, but I cannot help thinking it a mis- 
take, the large quantity of spice completely overpowers 
the lemon and it really becomes cinnamon pudding. 
If you use it you must pound it to powder in a mortar 
with the sugar, which must be lump (it ^wili ^at» ^r- 
der alone), then shake it thioxigJoL a. cfanoxtst. ^aa <s&*s> 



172 

crumbs are made by rubbing scraps of stale cake 
through a wire sieve, the trimmings from a Charlotte 
Russe can be saved in a tin for the purpose. Pour 
upon them the milk and cream, add the sugar and spice, 
and let them soak. Grate the rind of your lemons, 
squeeze the juice through a strainer, and add that next ; 
beat in the yolks of the eggs, and, lastly, stir in lightly 
one whipped white. Pour it into a greased pie dish 
lined part way down with short crust, and bake it in a 
moderate oven for three' quarters of an hour. Dredge 
a little sugar over the top for serving. The only mis- 
take you are likely to make is in the mixing, which 
must be thorough, or you will have a lower layer of the 
crumbs tolerably solid, then one of custard, and an 
upper froth of scorched egg. 



TENTH LESSON. 



JELLIES AND CREAMS. 

The preparation of a jelly necessarily occupies a longer 
period than the limits of a lesson. Stock must be made 
for it the day before, unless, you use gelatine. 
That you may learn both methods, I will prepare an 
Aspic jelly from stock and a sweet one from gelatine. 
Aspic is the name given to a savoury jelly composed of 
meat, vegetables, herbs, spices, and other flavourings, 
and much used for decorating dishes, cold entrees, and 
salads. I will give you the full recipe for making the 
stock and converting it into jelly, it is somewhat 
lengthy : two calves' feet, two lbs. of knuckle veal, three 
quarters lb. of lean veal, the shells and whites of two 
eggs, two carrots, one turnip, two leeks or one onion 
(small), one half head of celery, one shallot, one clove 
of garlic, one blade of mace, three peppercorns, eight 
elovea, ten allspice berries, t1^e^&^\fcw^w^\rc^^ 



173 

garni, one sprig of tarragon, one sprig of chervil, the 
rind of one and juice of two lemons, one table spoonful of 
French vinegar, one table-spoonful of tarragon vinegar, 
one gill of chablis or sherry, a dessert-spoonful of salt, 
and it will take, in all, about seven hours to prepare — 
one for clearing the jelly and six on the previous day 
for boiling the stock. You must divide each of the 
calves' feet in four. First cut through the joint, and 
then between the hoofs, that will give you two pieces ; 
next saw through the long bone. Blanch these in 
every instance before using them. You remember, to 
blanch anything is to put it on in cold water and bring 
it to the boil. Then take them up and wash them 
thoroughly in cold water, wash out also your saucepan 
— you cannot be too cleanly, and you will be astonished 
at the quantity of green scum that rises from the feet, 
apparently so white and clean. A lady once assured 
me that if any one walked across the room or breathed 
near her jelly, it was clouded ; that is, of course, 
ridiculous. Great cleanliness and care are needed, 
then, if you will only follow the directions strictly, you 
cannot fail to have your jellies bright. It is not 
half so difficult a process as people imagine; and I 
shall point out to you as I go on some of the probable 
causes of failure, and give you the necessary cautions 
respecting * them. To return to the calves' feet — after 
blanching, lay them in a saucepan with your two lbs. 
of knucle of veal, free from fat and marrow ; cut the 
meat into pieces an inch square, and break up the 
bone, add five pints of cold water, and .one dessert- 
spoonful of salt, and bring it slowly to the boil. Mean- 
while, prepare your vegetables in the usual way, and 
add them when it is thoroughly boiling. The garlic, 
shallot, mace, cloves, allspice, tarragon, chervil, lemons, 
vinegar, and wine are all too strong in flavour to 
require the long boiling of the stock — they are used in 
the clearing only. So is the three quarters of a lb. of 
lean veal and the eggs. This must now simmer qgM^tbj 
for nearly the whole day, being &xattb&^. Vcwo&l^ots^^ 



174 

time. The lid mast be kept down, and, after six hours, 
the whole poured through a hair sieve and left until 
the next day. It will be found much reduced in 
quantity — there should be about one quart left; if 
there is more it will not be stiff enough to stand, if 
less, it will be more like glue than jelly. Before clearing 
it, it is most essential that it should be perfectly free 
from grease. Every particle must be removed. Dip 
an iron spoon in boiling water, so that it is quite hot, 
and skim over the surface. When you have taken off 
as much as you can in that way, dip the corner of a 
cloth in hot water, and wipe it carefully, and round the 
sides of the basin also. Have a scrupulously clean 
stewpan, and be sure that the tin lining is not worn 
off. If it is, the jelly will be discoloured, Put into it 
the stock, the shallot with the skin on — that helps to 
colour it, you know — one clove of garlic (the garlic 
root is composed of many small pieces enclosed in one 
skin), the spice, your French herbs, tarragon and 
chervil, when they are obtainable ; should (they be out 
of season, use double the quantity of the tarragon 
vinegar to supply the flavour), the lean veal shred as 
for soups, * just a small quantity of each of the vege- 
tables to revive the flavour, carrot, celery, turnip (very 
little of the latter, it is apt to predominate), and the 
shells and whites of your eggs. Just break up the 
shells, the whites need not be whipped. Put the sauce- 
pan over the fire, and keep it well stirred with a whisk 
until you see plenty of thick, white froth over the top 
and it steams plentifully. Then cease, take out your 
whisk, and let it boil up, it rises in the saucepan just as 
milk does before it boils over, let it come well to the top, 
and then draw it gently on one side where it will only 
just simmer very slightly. Put in now your vinegar and 
wine ; if added earlier in the process they would be 
quite wasted. The flavour is volatile, and flies off in 
the cooking. Place the lid over the top, it helps to 

* See Lesson II. in the High CAasa tartar \ue&Wb. 



175 

harden the crust, but don't quite close it, it is better to 
let the steam escape. That thick white scum is com- 
posed of the white of egg broken up extremely small 
by your continued whisking, and it carries up with it 
all the impurities, so that at the end of twenty minutes, 
when your jelly will be ready to strain off, it is perfectly 
dear and bright underneath. 

In many cookery books the direction is given, 
" remove the scum." This is most absurd, it is your 
filter, and if you take away your filter how will the 
jelly run through clear ? It is all nonsense to suppose 
that all the virtue of a bright jelly lies in the jelly bag. 
It is no such thing. A jelly is cleared in the saucepan, 
all the real work is done there or not at all ; for, un- 
less a good scum is formed, you might run it through 
twenty times and it would be no clearer than at first. 
You all know that running water through sand in a 
cloth will filter it ; but try it through the cloth without 
the sand, it will be the same as when poured in ; and 
just so with the jelly. I shall now leave that to stand 
by the fire for the twenty minutes whilst I make 
another, without stock, from gelatine. I will then give 
you the directions for straining them both ; for jelly 
making is exceedingly simple, they are all on precisely 
the same principles, if you can make one, you can make 
any ; broadly speaking, they only differ in the flavour- 
ing you add to them. Before leaving the aspic jelly, I 
must tell you that the second stock * is an excellent foun- 
dation for it, and makes your dish less costly than 
preparing a stock on purpose. If your second stock, 
when cold, is not stiff enough to stand, it can easily be 
remedied by the addition of a little gelatine. A still 
less expensive way of making it would be to use only 
gelatine. It has the advantage of being also quicker. 
In that case, I would advise your boiling your vegetables 
cut up small for about an hour in one and a half pint 
of water to extract their flavour, then dissolve the 

* See Lesson II. in the High CVaaa ^ecra^ ^%^\K&. 



176 

gelatine in 'it by the directions I shall give yon pre- 
sently, add to it the other ingredients, and proceed to 
clear it. 

Jellies may be said to owe their existence to the 
stiffening properties of gelatine. They are delicious, 
and most useful in many cases, especially to invalids, 
as a vehicle for conveying nourishment in an agreeable 
form. Gelatine is found in bones, muscle, skin, horns, 
hoofs, and even in ivory. Hartshorn shavings boiled 
down with other ingredients make a jelly given to 
invalids. 

I have just shown you one stiffened with the gelatine 
from bones, and am now going to make one with the 
pure gelatine, which you can buy in packets, already 
extracted and prepared for use, thus effecting a saving 
of time, fuel, and money ; for the oz. packet costs only 
sixpence, and will make one quart of jelly, the 
equivalent for which would be two calves' feet at a cost 
of probably two shillings (this varies according to 
neighbourhood), and which would require boiling down 
for five or six hours the previous day. There is an 
immense prejudice in some people's minds in favour of 
the calves' feet, but if you get really pure gelatine it 
is quite as good and infinitely more convenient. We 
use Swinborne's for both jellies and creams. The 
packets are convenient, as they contain just the correct 
quantity for the quart jelly, and if too much is used 
your dish will be disagreeably stiff, so much so that a 
knife is almost needed to cut it. A jelly should be 
only just so stiff as to stand, and requires no mastica- 
tion ; the warmth of the mouth should dissolve it. In 
warm weather, August for instance, a small quantity 
more of the gelatine will be necessary both for the 
jellies and the creams, but be careful not to overdo it, 
they are both spoilt if made too solid, especially the 
creams. The dietetic value of gelatine is scarcely yet 
determined ; some chemists say it is highly nutritious, 
others not at all. It has been proved that after being 
acted upon by the gastric yi\<& ft to& tu& u^ein. stiffen, 



177 

thus showing that it has parted with some constituent ; 
on the other hand, it is not found in the blood, hence 
it is argued it is not necessary to life since the blood i > 
the life, and everything necessary to our existence may 
be traced therein. Neither is it in eggs or milk, both 
of which contain all that is absolutely essential for life. 
Any way it is a most useful and agreeable substance, 
and even if we cannot yet distinctly prove its use on 
the higher ground, we know that some of our food 
must be taken simply as stuffing to increase its bulk, 
and this is an undoubtedly pleasant padding. Dr. 
Lankester uses the illustration of horses who do not 
work so well on beans and oats as they do if they have 
chaff mixed with it; and so, he says, it is with human 
beings and gelatine. Another authority, Prof. Church, 
says, speaking of gelatine, it is probably turned to some 
account in the human body, but we can quite live 
without it; vegetarians do entirely. It is, however, 
admitted to be a u nitrogeneous " substance (and al 
food-stuffs containing nitrogen are flesh formers), so 
that we may very safely conclude that it is a good and 
useful food as well as an obliging friend to the cook, 
whom it assists in many ways in preparing numerous 
tempting dishes. 

Lemon jelly is a type jelly ; all others are made like 
it, with one lemon instead of three, and their distinctive 
flavouring ' in addition. For a maraschino jelly, the 
recipe I shall give you can be used with one third the 
quantity of lemon, and a glass of maraschino added at 
the last ; curacpa in the same way ; orange jelly, three 
oranges and one lemon ; wine jelly, quarter of a pint of 
sherry, and three quarters of a wine-glassful of brandy, 
and so on. I shall use one oz. of gelatine, one quart of 
water, three lemons, three ozs. of lump sugar, one inch of 
cinnamon stick, eight cloves, and the shells of whites of 
two eggs. Take an oz. packet of gelatine and soak it in your 
quart of cold water for some time, from ten to twenty 
minutes. Peel the lemons exceedingly tbiiL k tk& txk<^ 
should be equally yellow onWAi *\<i&*\ \i «o^ *& *^r> 



178 

pith is taken up it makes it bitter. In punch and 
lemonade-making you often hear people blaming a 
" bitter lemon ; " it is no such thing ; it is because they 
have used the bitter part. Next rub your lumps of 
sugar over the surface so that they extract all the 
essential oil that may be left in the pores. Squeeze 
the juice from your fruit through a strainer that none 
of the pips fall in, and add that with the rind of two of 
the lemons to your saucepan. We always use one third 
less of the rind than of the juice of lemons, it is so 
much stronger in proportion. The rind gives the 
flavour of lemon, the juice the acidity. Next add one 
oz. of sugar for the juice of each lemon, this is an 
average proportion, but you must vary according to the 
taste of those for whom you are making the jelly. I 
remember two persons tasting the same jelly, one asked 
me if I had forgotten the sugar, and the other said it 
was rather too sweet. 

Crush the shells of your eggs. If they are not clean 
wash them first in strong salt and water, put them 
with the whites into the saucepan ; there is no need to 
beat them first, they will get well whisked whilst it is 
coming to the boil. One egg to each pint is always 
necessary for clearing jellies, and if you have no use for 
the yolk, that may go in too, though it is more 
economical to reserve them for custards. 

I must warn you that very stiff jellies are very 
troublesome to clear, more egg will be needed, for it is 
the stiffening that needs the clearing, not the quantity ;* 
and if you have used too much gelatine, and yet made 
only one quart of stock, two eggs will not clear it ; more- 
over, it will be so thick, you will lose half in running 
it through your cloth, and will be disappointed to find 
it wasted and opaque. Tour remedy would, of course, 
be to add water before clearing it. Put your saucepan 
over the fire, whisk it thoroughly until it quite boils 
up to the top, then draw it on one side, and leave it 



* Seav^^* 



179 

for twenty minutes to settle. Next consider your 
medium for straining it. I quite believe many people 
can make bright jellies in the saucepan, but cannot 
successfully complete the process, owing to the detest- 
able jelly bags used for straining. I know of nothing 
in the way of cooking which I consider such an abomi- 
nation as the jelly bag. It is almost invariably dirty 
— of course, I am alluding to those thick felt ones sold 
expressly for this purpose— there is great difficulty in 
cleaning them, owing to their thickness ; soap is 
generally used, and it is impossible to rinse them 
thoroughly, so that the flavour of your jelly is too often 
unpleasantly suggestive of soap suds and washing day, 
besides which, the thickness of the substance retards 
the passage of the jelly, and unless you are particularly 
skilful, it will cool and set firm before half is through, 
Did you depend upon the cloth to clear your jelly, 
there might be some meaning in it, but, as we have 
it beautifully transparent in the saucepan, all that is 
now needed is a cloth so much closer than canvass that 
it will not let the particles of albumen forming our 
crust pass through, and yet in no way impede the 
passage of the liquid. Demet or tammy are the two 
best materials for the purpose. All that I ever use is an 
ordinary tea-cloth, taking care that it is perfectly clean, 
and has not been washed with soap or soda. A piece 
of ordinary house -flannel is a capital strainer, and if 
anyone is particularly wedded to a conical jelly bag, it 
is easy to make one by folding your square of flannel 
across and running the two sides together. Then this 
can be unripped for washing, and the material is not 
so expensive, but that after using it several times 
you might relegate it to the kitchen for scrubbing pur- 
poses, and indulge in a new one. A chair reversed 
upon a table, so that the legs point upwards, makes an 
excellent jelly stand, provided it has no bar across the 
centre. Tie each corner of your cloth securely to the 
legs, and place a basin underneath, now run boiling 
water through to make quite «vu& \t \* t&fe"^ «x&. >k S^ 



180 

ready for your jelly. With a jelly bag you must put 
enough water through to make the bag quite hot, and it 
must stand in front of the fire, then when you pour 
your jelly in the top, the first spoonfuls forced out are 
more than half water, so you must remove that basin 
and throw away its contents, rapidly replacing it by 
another. It is always as well to strain it in a warm 
place, even when using a cloth, because as it cools it 
stiffens, and you will not get it all passed through. I 
can now strain them both. Pour all the contents of 
your saucepan on to the centre of the cloth. It looks 
thick, because that has shaken and broken up the crust. 
Put a clean basin underneath, and now that the crust 
has settled, pour it through again, very gently this 
time, so as not to disturb it. It generally is perfectly 
clear and bright the second time, it scarcely ever needs 
to go through again ; if, however, it still looks cloudy, 
it must, even again and again, until it is perfectly 
bright, bearing in mind always that it must be done so 
quickly that it does not stiffen. When all is satisfac- 
tory, let it become almost cold before it goes into the 
moulds ; it will very often thicken at the last from 
being put in them too hot, especially if they are made 
of common tin. Lemon jelly should have no decoration, 
dried fruits would cloud it, and fresh ones be inappro- 
priate. As I am going to finish off the aspic with hard 
boiled egg, 1 shall set a small quantity on the ice at 
once. The moulds for both jellies and creams should 
first be scalded in boiling water, lest they are greasy, 
and then rinsed out with cold and left wet. In winter 
jellies will set in the course of the day without ice ; 
in summer they will become firm in four and twenty 
hours ; but if you want to garnish them it is pleasanter 
at all times to have ice. Set the mould in a basin and 
pack it round with nobs of ice, particularly noticing 
that it stands level, or your decoration will be uneven. 
What is known as a border mould is generally used for 
aspic jellies, for it enables you to serve an appropriate 
salad in the centre, li \V\a to\>s s^^V^^lam 



181 

salad the correct decoration in the jelly would be hard 
boiled eggs, mustard and cress, or any small green 
meat ; if with lobster salad, pieces of the claw and tail 
of the lobster should be floating in it, and the coral, 
properly prepared,* can be used with great advantage ; 
if with fowl or game fillets from the breast of the birds, 
are set in the jelly, and so on, bearing in mind that 
everything you use for decoration must be edible and 
cooked, or requiring no cooking. The ice plant looks 
very well. To boil your eggs hard put them into 
enough boiling water to cover them, and let them boil, 
without check, for ten minutes, then lift them out and 
lay them in cold water. Most people would say, at any 
rate, they know how to boil an egg hard, but even here 
there is something to be learnt, for if the boiling ceases 
for a minute the yolk never hardens thoroughly, and, 
instead of looking like a cloud of gold dust in your 
jelly it will be like mustard and water. This is the 
secret by which cook shops are able to supply an 
enormous number of eggs properly and lightly boiled 
at a minutes' notice. They boil them all over-night 
for three minutes, then let them get cold, next morn- 
ing lay them in hot water, and they are at any minute 
ready to serve. The great point is to let them get cold, 
for if an egg is first properly and softly boiled, no 
amount of after cooking will harden it. The object of 
laying eggs in cold water immediately is to prevent the 
yolks turning black. When quite cold remove the 
yolk, and carefully cut pieces from the white with a 
fancy cutter, stars, crescents, rings, as you may like. 
Pour a little of your smaller portion of jelly, which 
by this time is nearly cold, into the mould first, 
just sufficient to cover the bottom, lay in it at 
regular intervals the pieces of white, and leave it until 
perfectly firm. Then pour in gently, with a spoon, 
some more jelly, paying great attention that you do 
not disturb the egg. If the second supply is too hot it 

* See Lesson V. in High C\aaa ^eno*, ^*%* \38>. 



182 

dissolves the first, and all your decorations will float 
out of their places. At the same time, if it is too cold 
it will not adhere, and on dishing up your jelly you 
will be annoyed to find it separating into flakes. You 
will by now have filled your mould to the depth of half 
an inch, lay in next some very small sprigs of parsley, 
tarragon, chervil, of cress, arranging them so that they 
will alternate with the white above ; you must not fail 
to remember that you are garnishing it topsy-turvy, 
and that on being turned out all will be reversed. 
Pour in just enough liquid to hold them firmly. While 
that is setting rub the yolk of your egg through a wire 
sieve, and put with it about three table-spoonfuls of 
jelly. This will be your next layer, and you must be 
very particular in setting this decoration, for our object 
is to produce a distinct band of gold through the aspic, 
and, if it unites at all with what is already in the 
mould, the effect is lost, and the result a dismal failure. 
When that is perfectly firm fill up the mould. It looks 
overdone to garnish a plain aspic further, but, if you 
are using lobster or game, it is in this lower band of 
the jelly that the pieces should be floating. When 
aspic is only required for garnishing, it is run into a 
basin to cool, and then cut into stars, diamonds, cres- 
cents, and so on, or chopped up exceedingly small with 
a knife. To turn it out, plunge the mould rapidly into 
hot water, shake it well in your hand, place a dish 
over the top, reverse the two together, and gently lift 
the mould. Take care to dip it very rapidly into the 
water, the more quickly the hotter it is, or the jelly 
will melt and run into the dish like a sauce. Crockery 
moulds are occasionally used, but I do not recommend 
them, they are troublesome to manage, their thickness 
is so great it takes some time for the heat to penetrate 
it. 

I will next give you a recipe for Custard Cream. 
Half a pint of double cream, half a pint of milk, the 
yolka only of four eggs, one oz. of castor sugar, flavour- 
ing-, and half an oz. o£ gelatins \ axi^AToasfc ^«c&. ^^ 



183 

that if you are not using Swinborne's gelatine, but that 
of inferior strength, which is sold by the lb., you will 
need double the quantity. Double cream has stood 
upon the milk for at least four and twenty hours before 
skimming ; single, or ordin'ary cream, is set in the 
morning and skimmed at night, but for whipping you 
must have that which has stood for " two meals," or 
" two milkings," as it is called. When none is obtain- 
able (in very hot weather it will sometimes turn sour 
before it has stood as long), Devonshire cream will 
serve, dissolved first in an equal quantity of milk by 
very gentle heat. Soak your gelatine as early as you 
can in half your milk, let it stand for at least ten 
minutes, then bring it to the fire and stir until it is 
perfectly dissolved, stand it on one side to cool a little, 
break the eggs, separating yolks from whites (an 
economical cook would use the whites for jellies, 
meringues, salads,* lemon, sponge, &c). Beat the 
yolks very slightly with the remainder of your milk, 
and pour it through a strainer into a jug. Stand this 
in a saucepan of boiling water, and stir it until it is 
of the same thickness as your cream. Be very careful 
not to let it curdle ; directly you see it thickening lift it 
out, one second too long will do the mischief and com- 
pletely ruin it; and even afterwards it may curdle, for 
eggs retain their heat so that unless you continue 
stirring it for a minute or so, it may yet happen ; of 
course, if your milk is the least £Our the same result 
will occur. Strain the gelatine into the jug, mix 
them, and set them away to cool. Before the 
gelatine is added you have an ordinary boiled custard, 
only needing sugar and flavouring. By using it for a 
cream we are lessening the cost of the dish by fully 
one third ; the eggs and milk with the cream will fill 
a one quart mould, to do which, without the custard, 
you must have one pint of cream. Next add the castor 
sugar, one oz., and the flavouring (about half a tea- 

* See Lesson IV. in High. CVaaa Stens*, \»Ag&^5A. 



184 

spoonful of vanilla and lesB of a stronger essence) to 
the cream, and proceed to whip it with . an ordinary 
whisk. It is not hard work ; your object is to make it 
as light as possible by beating air into it, so raise your 
whisk each time as much as you can, and turn the 
cream over. Cream well beaten is double its original 
bulk You must continue until on holding up your whisk 
you find the cream cling to it, then stop instantly ; a 
turn or two more, especially in the summer, and you 
will be dismayed to find the contents of your basin a 
quantity of milk and a little pat of butter. As long as it 
has a smooth, creamy appearance you are safe, but directly 
it looks rough as though sand or fine crumbs were 
mixed in it — be careful, you are churning. Prepare 
your mould as for jellies, and garnish it with fruit, 
cherries, angelica, or pistachio nuts blanched and minced 
finely. These latter have a very pretty effect like moss. 
Now if the custard and gelatine are cool enough, you 
may add them to the cream, and herein lies the 
whole art of cream making. If it is poured in too hot 
it destroys all the lightness of the cream, and no amount 
of after whipping will recover it, and when turned out 
of the mould it will be found in layers ; a little cake of 
glue at the top, that is the gelatine which settles at the 
bottom of the mould, then the custard, and lastly a 
lighter band which is the cream. If put in too cold it 
never mixes thoroughly, half sets in the basin, and 
when turned out is rough and cracks away in lumps. 
It should be only just warm enough to mix and pour 
into the shape before it sets, then it blends perfectly all 
through, and every part of the cream iB of the same 
colour and consistency. A little experience will soon 
show you when it is of the right temperature, it should 
just be lukewarm. A cream of fresh fruit iB slightly 
different, no custard is used, but the syrup of the fruit 
instead. You must pass a pint of raspberries through 
a silk sieve, if you have one, if not fine hair ; add to 
them the juice of a lemon and two ozs. of castor sugar. 
Dissolve half an oz. of gelatine m qj\a.xtet dl *. \fcafe of 



185 

milk. Whip half a pint of cream stiffly, add to it the 
syrup, and lastly the gelatine, then turn it into your 
mould, which may be garnished with some of the whole 
fruit and set it on ice to cool. From these two recipes 
you ought to make almost any cream suceesfully, like 
jellies they mainly differ in the flavouring. A fruit 
cream ought not to have custard in it, neither ought a 
Charlotte Russe, which I shall show you next. For 
this you require half a pint of cream, quarter of a pint 
milk, quarter of an oz. of gelatine, half an oz. of sugar, 
flavouring, dried fruit for garnishing, and six penny- 
worth of savoys. It is made in a straight round tin, 
like a cake tin, only narrower across, and with higher 
sides, a large Charlotte llusse is inelegant, it is better 
to have two small ones. The tin is to be clean and dry, 
and not prepared in any way ; as it is lined with the 
biscuits, and does not require it, they will not stick. I 
once saw the result after it had been wetted as for a 
jelly, it was most disastrous ; the crisp brown outside 
of the biscuits stuck to the tin, and they looked 
sodden and ugly as though mice had been nibbling 
the outside. The ladies* fingers sold in tins are not 
suitable, they are so crisp they break in trimming, 
and you cannot press them well together; 
those purchased at the confectioners are much better. 
You will not absolutely use all the sixpenny worth, 
some may break, and these with the scraps can be used 
for puddings or cake crumbs. They must be neatly 
trimmed, so that all four sides are straight and even ; 
then line your tin, keeping the brown side towards the 
tin. You must always hold the first and last or thev 
will tumble down ; it can be managed by keeping your 
little finger on the first, and creeping round with the fore- 
finger. Squeeze them as tightly together as you can or the 
cream will force itself through. Never choose a mould 
with sloping sides, for you must then cut one finger 
wedge- shape, and it spoils the appearance. With the 
top of a knife you can arrange some ^nfe^Vcva^. ^SX^ 
bottom of your tin ; don't lay \>iscu\te VSassfc^^k ^s»^^s&. 



Ibb* 

look well, but before this you must gently shake out 
the crumbs. Soak and dissolve your gelatine as for 
the custard cream. Put your sugar and flavouring to 
the cream, whip it, and add thcf gelatine, if cool, 
through a strainer. In this cream you must be even 
quicker after mixing it in getting it into the mould, for 
it sets more rapidly, owing to the smaller bulk of the 
gelatine and milk in proportion to the cold cream. 
The first supply should be put in gently by spoonfuls, 
so as not to disturb the garniture. It will be very 
soon ready to turn out, and only the top need be dipped 
in the warm water, as the cream nowhere else touches 
the tin. In farm-houses in winter, where the cream 
is very good, it is possible to make a Charlotte Russe 
without gelatine, as the buscuits support it, but for all 
others in every case you must use some stiffening, the 
less the better ; you don't want them as stiff and solid 
as a blanc mange, but remember that in the hot weather 
a trifle more gelatine will be necessary. 

There are, as you know, many other varieties of 
creams, but from the examples I have given you you 
ought to be able to prepare them, provided always you 
remember the proportions: half an oz. of gelatine to 
one pint of cream, or cream and custard, or cream and 
fruit syrup ; and don't forget that the gelatine must 
cool before it is mixed. One or two failures will im- 
press this upon you more strongly than my words. We 
never learn thoroughly but when we learn by experi- 
ence, and I hope, therefore, that you will practically 
test these recipes yourselves. 



Henderson & Rait, Printers, 3 & 5, Marylebone Lane, London, W. 



) 



OPULAR LESSONS ON COOKERY. 



These Lessons, with practical demonstration, will be given 
i any neighbourhood where a class can be formed. 
Applications should be made to 

SCHOOL OF COOKERY, 

10, Greenleaf Lane, 

Walthamstow. 

J. W. CARPENTER, 

Jfrrmmnngjcr, 

lO, CDE^O^C^TEIiX. TEBBAOE, 

HARROW ROAD, 

LONDON, W. 

Is the actual maker of the Cookery Utensils used and 

recommended by the author. 



GOODS TO THE VALUE OF £1 SENT CARRIAGE FREE 

TO ANY PART OF LONDON. 



PRICE LIST POST FREE ON APPLICATION. 



HEGISTERED KHSISSTOK OXYGEKIC COOUNG STOVE, 



It llu Katiaxal Training St 



ol. Stmtk Kauington. 3. W. 



These Economical Oooking Btovea are nude In vnrtooi deofgi?!. tlv^ and 
prlrea, mi able for the Muniirai orCntuga, ud, with the new and Improved 
appliance. Routing, Boilings and Baking, mt be curled on BinniManroaaly 
wtepanMJr, They are ao arrant for Roaatmg that a ouirrat of mix it con- 

!,y wlifoh inana the mort delicate articles of food may be conked nithout being 
in tin- leant tainted, which wai the reault in the old ayateia of cooking by gu. 




Til* "KENSINGTON" Reentered Oxygenic S 

and cleaniineu in die me of gal nrrnu cool] eauafiig quit* ■ re- 
rotation In the art o[ cooking. Helemwea an MivUi wrmltted to numbm 
who UK them. Forwarded, carriage ptM,Qnn«i4T*<AJ.<l. s »*««™<»i««>» l 
with Jnitructlone for Axing, So. Ifturtrntoma tea ^1 ^«*~ 






ft. GREENE & SON, 7 4 8, Pavilion BuUdtafeBritite 



JOHNSTON'S 

CORN FLOUR 

IS THE BEST. 



(THE OU> HOUSE.) 



Good reasons why 

JOHNSTON'S CORN FLOUR 

Is greatly preferred : — 

" It is quite free from Adulteration." — The Lancet. 
"Is decidedly superior." — The Lancet. 

It is not Ric&Jftour ; it is prepared at great expense exclusively 
from Maize — Indian Corn. 

It is rich in heat-giving and flesh-forming properties, and when 
added to milk the milk is rendered more digestible. In combination 
with milk it closely resembles in nutritive value ordinary beef and 
bread, and therefore especially adapted for Children's Food. 



Packets, 2, i, 8, & 16oz. ; Tins, 18 Qi.itvDi\ lAM^nat. 



M°CALL'S 



11 



, '■;-,'PA VSAi\i DU jVi, 



PAYSANDU OX TONGUES. 

In Tins of 21 to 31 lbs. each. 

WESTERN MEAT PRESERVING COMPANY. 

Boiled Rabbits in alb. Tins. 




^) Ss Str Ignjrstn's Sojal J tttai {stent. 
1* 

PATENT REFINED 

ISINGLASS. 

FOB INVALIDS AND CONPBCTIONEET 
PURPOSES. 



EXTRA QUALITY. 



DIRECTIONS FOR U8E AND RECIPE8 ENCL08ED. 



1 oz. Packet, Is. 

Each Genuine Packet bears the 
Signature of the Patentee. 



WAREHOUSE. 
ST. ANDREW'S HILL, QUEEN VICTORIA 8T., LONDON. 



SWINBORNE'S PATENT REFINED 

ISINGLASS, 

EXTRA QUALITY IN xs. PACKETS, 

AND PATENT ISINGLASS, 

SECOND QUALITY, IN 8d. PACKETS, 

Is specially recommended 
fectionary purposes and in 

500 Secipk 




\ 



