7l 




\ 



LlBRftR'^ OF CONGRESS 

HIP. 

014 485 488 3 9 



^-^ 



'Hv.y^ 



Jhfood 



/ 



Cook 




\\<f^^ 2r, 3. t 



J^TuribeT Two, 



Copyrighted by 

C. I. HOOD & CO., 

APOTHECARIES. BARRISTERS' HALL, 

LOWELL, MASS. 



^^^•,5 



Three Just Claims. 

I. No department of science has wit- 
nessed greater progress during the past 
twenty-five years than that of obtaining 
correct information of the relative medici- 
nal value of the various articles of the 
vegetable kingdom used for the relief of 
human suffering— their proper, effective 
combination, and the best method of 
securing and preserving their active prin- 
ciples for universal use. These search 
ing investigations have shown that many 
articles which, at that time, were sup- 
posed to possess great curative effects 
are void of any medicinal power what^ 
ever. The supreme importance of puiify- 
ing the blood has made this subject a field 
of active operations, the results of which 
have enabled us to present for your use 
and appreciation Hood's Sarsaparilla, an 
article which, by a combination peculiar 
to itself, is so vastly superior to any simi- 
lar preparation that one has well said: 
" Its health-giving effects upon the blood 
and the entire human organism are as 
much more positive than the remedies of 
a quarter of a century ago, as the steam- 
power of to-day is in advance of the slow 
and laborious drudgery of years ago." 

II. No other blood-purifier is worthy 
of comparison with Hood's Sarsaparilla. 
By cures wholly unprecedented in the 
history of medicine, it has proven its 
right to the title of " The greatest blood- 
purifier ever discovered." We challenge 
any medicine to show an appreciation at 
home like that which has been poured 
upon Hood's Sarsaparilla. Such results 
only come from real merit, and the steadi- 
ly increasing demand for this article 
unmistakably proves that people appre- 
ciate it. If you are suffering from scrof- 
ula, salt-rheum, or any obnoxious humor, 
Hood's Sarsaparilla is the remedy to 
bring you relief. 

III. A bottle of Hood's Sarsaparilla 
contains three times as much medicine as 
any other for the same money. If you 
are suffering from biliousness, dyspepsia, 
headache or exhaustion, try Hood's Sar- 
saparilla. To prove our claims: 

1. Compare the clean, clear and beauti- 
ful appearance of Hood's Sarsaparilla 
with the muddy, gritty m^ke-up oj Qvher 
prepar^^ioi]8, 



y 

2. Compare the record of wonderful 
cures, as shown by the testimonials we 
publish. 

3. Compare the dose and amount 
given iu Hood's Sarsaparilla with that 
given by others. A dollar bottle of Hood's 
Sarsaparilla contains an average of more 
than 100 doses. 

Hood's Sarsaparilla, 

A trial will convince the most sceptical 
of the real merit of Hood's Sarsaparilla, 
and enable all to test its wonderful 
power in restoring and invigorating the 
whole system, in renovating and enrich- 
ing the blood, in giving an appetite and 
tone to the stomach, in eradicating and 
curing scrofula, scrofulous humor, scald- 
head, syphilitic affections, cancerous 
humor, ulcers, sores, tumors, ringworms, 
sal^rheum, boils, pimples and humors on 
the face, catarrh, headache, dizziness, 
faintness at the stomach, constipation, 
pains in the back, kidney complaint, 
female weakness, general debility, cos- 
tiveness, biliousness, dyspepsia, indiges- 
tion, lassitude and languor peculiar to 
spring and hot weather, loss of appetite 
and all diseases arising from an impure 
state or low condition of the blood. 
Hood's Sarsaparilla is designed to act 
upon the blood, and through that upon 
all the organs and tissues of the body. 
It has a specific action, also, upon the 
secretions and excretions and assists 
nature to expel from the system all hu- 
mors, impure particles and effete matter 
through the lungs, liver, bowels, kidneys 
and skin. It effectually aids weak, impair- 
ed and debilitated organs, invigorates the 
nervous system, tones and strengthens 
the digestive organs, and imparts new 
life and energy to all the functions of the 
body. The peculiar point of this medi- 
cine is that it strengthens and builds up 
the system while it eradicates disease. 

Hood's Sarsaparilla is sold by all drug- 
gists. Price, $1.00 a bottle, or six bottles 
for $5.00. 

PKEPARED ONLY BY 

C. I. HOOD & CO., Apoihecaries^ 
I^QTTEi-X^, MASS, 



Hood's Cook Book No. 2 



In presenting Hood's Cook Book No. 2 we bespeak for It the generous favor 
bestowed upon No. 1. We have spared neither trouble nor expense to secure 
good practical receipts. They cover quite a range of cooking, and with the 
original book make a valuable collection. We ask special attention to the 
candies. 

IloodJs Cook ^ook JVb. 1 

Is a compilation of choice cooking receipts, contains sixty-four pages, printed 
on tinted paper, with red edges, and is handsomely bound. We have received a 
large number of letters, expatiating on the excellence and value of this book. 
One lady writes: "Such good things can be made at so low cost, that poor and 
rich can afford these delicacies." Another, " I cannot thank you enough for your 
book. It contains the best collection I ever saw." Another, "How you could 
get receipts that make such really nice things at so small cost is my greatest 
wonder." Until the present edition is exhausted, we will send Hood's Cook Book 
No. 1 (sixty-four pages) to any address, on receipt of a Set. stamp. Wo 
cannot promise beyond this edition. 



JSrizmhei^ S, Free. 



This contains entirely different receipts from the' No. 1 book, and can be 
obtained free of any Druggist in New England. Druggists can obtain a limited 
number at any time, by writing us and naming the wholesale druggist in whose 
care we can send the books. 



Hood's Cook Books are copyrighted and published by 

C. I, HOOD & CO,, - - Apothecaries, 

LOV/ELL, MASS. 



Clear Soup, 

5 lbs. of clear tieef cut from the lower 
part of the round, 5 qts. cold water; cut 
the beef into small pieces, add the water 
and let it come to a boil gradually; skim 
carefully and set where it will keep at the 
boiling points or 10 hours; strain and set 
away to cool. In the morning skim off 
all the fat, pour the soup mto a kettle, 
being careful to keep back the sediment. 
Put into the soup 1 onion, l stalk of cel- 
ery, 2 sprigs of parsley, 2 sprigs of thjine, 
2 of sunnner savory, 2 leaves of sage, 2 
bay leaves, 12 pepper corns, 6 whole 
cloves; boil gently 20 mmutes, strain 
through a napkin, first seasoning with 
salt and pepper to taste; tie the herbs 
together before putting into the soup. 
Hood's Sarsaparilla purifies the blood. 

Vegetable Soup, 

1 pint of vegetables, including turnip, 
carrot, onion and celery; cut mto small 
pieces and boil one hour in water enough 
to cover. Add 1 quart of clear stock, a 
little more salt, boil a few minutes and 
serve. Take Hood's Sarsaparilla now. 

J*ea Soup, 

Pick over 1 pint of split peas; wash and 
soak over night; in the morning turn ofE 
the water and put them in the soup-pot; 
add 4 quarts of cold water, i^ lb. of lean 
salt pork, a small piece of celery, onion 
and a little pepper; boil gently four or 
five hours, being careful that it does not 
burn; when cooked it will look smooth 
and rather mealy. Hood's Sarsaparilla 
renovates the system. 

Mutton Soup, 

Take the water that remains in the 
steamer after the mutton is cooked— see 
steamed leg of mutton— there should be 
about 3 quarts, add i^ cup English split 
peas, nicely washed, 1 small onion, and 
cook gently three hours, adding a little 
more water if it cooks away much; before 
taking from the fire add salt and pepper 
to taste. Half a teaspoonful of Worces- 
tershire Sauce gives a very nice flavor. 
Hood's Sarsaparilla eradicates scrofula. 



We Megret 

That limited space has forced us to con- 
dense many testimonials. We trust, how- 
ever, that we have not shorn them of the 
elements that will convince our readers 
of the real merit of Hood's Sarsaparilla. 
We honestly believe a trial will satisfy 
every one that om- remedy contains an 
unusual amount of medicinal power. 

Purify the J^lood, 

The importance of a prqper purification 
of the blood caimot be over-estimated. 
Yvlien this vital fluid is contaminated, 
diseases of various kinds present them- 
selves, such as a feeling of general debil- 
ity, weakness, want of appetite, dyspep- 
sia, nervousness, constipation, headache 
and the m.ore positive signs of blood im- 
purities, Scrofula, Salt Pheum, Cancerous 
Hmnor, Scald Head, Boils, Scrofulous 
Humor, Pain in the Bones, &c. Just here 
we wish to ask attention to Hood's Sarsar 
parilla and the wonderful record it has 
made in purifying the blood of hmidreds 
of sufferers and restoring them to health. 
We tell you the truth of this remarkable 
medicine and believe it the best combina- 
tion possible to purify, -vitalize and enrich 
the blood. 

" I have never found anything that hit 
my wants as Hood's Sarsaparilla. It 
tones up my system, pirrifies my blood, 
sharpens my appetite, and seems to make 
me over. " Eespectfully yours, J. P. 
Thompson, Pegister of Deeds, Middlesex 
Coimty, Lowell, Mass. 

A Big Thing. 

" Mr. Whitman, Druggist on Main St., 
informs us that since the first of August, 
he has disposed of five gross of Hood's 
Sarsaparilla and that it has the largest 
sale of any medicine in the market. It is 
also by far the most popular, and in all 
his experience there never came to his 
knowledge a single complaint in regard 
to its curative effects, but its praises are 
on the lips of everj'body who uses it. The 
cause of this is undoubtedly the merit of 
a superior article, for Messrs. C. I. Hood 
& Co., are gentlemen who would feel un- 
pardonable, were they to offer for sale an 



Invest one dollar in Hood's Sarsaparilla; you'll not regret it. 



I*otato Soup, 

Take 10 small potatoes, boil and mash; 
to a quart of milk add 1/4 lb. of butter, 
pepper and salt to taste ; boil, then thicken 
with a tablespoonful of flour, flavor with 
celery; watch carefully that it does not 
get too thick. Hood's Sarsaparilla, the 
best spring medicine. 

Mock Bisque Soup, 

Stew a can of tomatoes and strain, add 
a pinch of soda to remove acidity; in 
another saucepan boil 3 pints of milk 
thickened with a tablespoonful of corn 
starch, previously mixed with a little cold 
milk; add a liunp of butter size of an egg, 
salt and pepper to taste; mix with toma- 
toes, let all come to a boil and serve. To 
cure biliousness take Hood's Sarsaparilla. 

Fried Bread for Soup, 

Cut bread into little squares about % of 
an inch thick; fry in butter, turning the 
pieces so that every side will be browmed. 
Hood's Sarsaparilla builds up the system. 

Fish Chowder, 

Take either a cod or a haddock, weigh- 
ing about 4 lbs., skin it, cut in small 
pieces and wash in cold water; take a 
scant quarter of a pound of salt pork, cut 
into small pieces and fry brown in the 
kettle in which the chowder is to be made ; 
for a fish weighing 4 lbs., pare and slice 5 
medium sized potatoes and l small onion; 
place a layer of potato and onion in the 
kettle, then a layer of fish, dredge in a 
little salt, pepper and flour; keep putting 
in alternate layers of potatoes, fish and 
the seasonmg until all is used; add hot 
water enough to cover; cover tight and 
boil gently thirty minutes; add a pint of 
milk and 6 crackers split and dipped in 
cold water, and cook ten minutes longer. 
To sharpen the appetite take Hood's 
Sarsaparilla. 

Clam Chowder, 

Wash the clams thoroughly, cover them 
with boiling water and let them stand ten 
minutes; when they can be easily opened, 
take them from the shell, cut off the black 
heads and put the bodies in a clean dish; 
for a peck of clams use 6 large potatoes. 



article in any respect different from that 
they claun it to he:'— Nashua {JST. H.) 
Telegraph. 

Hood's Sarsaparilla 

Is a carefully prepared extract of the 
best remedies of the vegetable kingdom 
known tp medical science as Altera- 
tives, Blood-Purifiers, Diuretics and Ton- 
ics, such as Sarsaparilla, Yellow Dock, 
Stillingia, Dandelion, Juniper Berries, 
Mandrake, Wild Cherry Bark and other 
selected roots, barks and herbs. We as- 
sure everyone that no article entering 
into the preparation of Hood's Sarsapa- 
rilla can possibly do any harm, if taken 
accordmg to our published directions. 
Each dollar bottle contains one hund- 
red (average) doses. Probably never 
in the history of proprietary medicines 
has any article met success at home 
equal to that which has been poured 
upon Hood's Sarsaparilla. Why, such 
has been the success of this article, 
that nearly every family in whole neigh- 
borhoods have been taking it at the same 
time. Every week brings new evidence 
of the wonderful curative properties of 
this medicine. 

Hood's Sarsaparilla is prepared only by 
C. I. Hood & Co., Apothecaries, Lowell, 
Mass. Price $1.00. Sold by druggists. 

Spring Medicine 

Is a necessity, because being "housed 
up" through the winter, breathing the 
impurities in the atmosphere of rooms 
heated by wood or coal and contaminated 
by the gases they throw off, the blood 
being the receptacle of these impurities, 
its vitality is so reduced that it is impos- 
sible to withstand the additional debili- 
tating influence of warm weather; hence 
that spring feeling of languor, lassitude, 
and that low state of the system peculiar 
to the spring months; all of which can be 
positively overcome by taking Hood's 
Sarsaparilla. 

A gentleman who has been suff- 
ering from the debility and languor 
peculiar to this season, says "Hood's 
Sarsaparilla is putting new life right 
into me. I have gained ten pounds since I 
began to take it." Has taken two bottles. 



Hood's Sarsaparilla works wonders in blood. 



peeled and sliced thin, and half an onion 
cut in small pieces. Cut a quarter of a 
pound of porlc into small pieces and fry- 
brown; put the potatoes and onion into 
the kettle with the pork; with a table- 
spoonful of salt, a little pepper and Vo cup 
of flour shaken over them; strain over this 
4 qts. of the water in which the clams were 
scalded and boil fifteen minutes ; now add 
the clams and 6 crackers split, and cook 
ten minutes longer. Hood's Sarsaparilla 
creates an appetite. 

Hollandaise Sauce. 

Half a teacupful of butter, the juice of 
half a lemon, the yelks of two eggs, a 
speck of Cayenne pepper, half a cupful of 
boiling water, half a teaspoonful of salt; 
beat the butter to a cream, add the yolks 
of eggs one by one, then the the lemon 
juice, pepper and salt, beating aU thor- 
oughly; place the bowl in which is the 
mixture in a saucepan of boiling water; 
beat with an egg-beater until it begins to 
thicken, which will be about a minute, 
then add the boiling water, beating all 
the time; stir until it begins to thicken 
like soft custard, stir a few minutes after 
taking from the fire; be careful not to 
cook it too long. This is very nice with 
baked fish.— il/iss Parloa. Cure Salt 
Eheum, take Hood's Sarsaparilla. 

Scalloped Oysters, 

Butter an oval dish, put in a layer 
of oysters, and dredge in a little salt, 
pepper and butter, then a layer of 
rolled -cracker; pour over this a few 
spoonfuls of milk, just enough to moisten 
the cracker, then a layer of oysters witli 
salt, pepper and butter; another of 
cracker, with a little more milk, and so 
on until the dish is full; before putting 
into the oven pour a little more milk over 
the top; bake about half an hour. Diph- 
theritic •onvalescents should take Hood's 
Sarsaparilla. 

Oyster Itoast, 

Put one quart of oysters in a basin with 
their own liquor and let them boil three 
or four minutes; season with a little salt, 
pepper and a heaping spoonful of butter. 
Serve on buttered toast. Hood's Sarsa- 
parilla vitalizes the blood. 



An alderman of this city says of Hood's 
Sarsapai'illa, " It is the strongest Sarsa- 
parilla I ever saw." 

T7ie Season, 

[ "Why cloes ever^'body take a spring 
medicine? For three good reasons, viz: 
I.— Because one bottle of a blood-purifier 
taken at this season will do more good 
than W;o at any other. II.— Because the 
blood is in a more impure condition than 
at any other season. III.— Because the 
system is so weakened by this impure 
state of the blood that it has not sufficient 
vitality to withstand the debilitating 
effects of spring weather. Hence, by 
common consent, people seek relief in 
medicine. The combination of Hood's 
Sarsaparilla commends it to our judg- 
ment as a good spring medicine and blood 
purifier. Such things as Sarsaparillla, 
Yellow Dock, Mandrake, «S:c., compoimded 
by competent druggists like Messrs. Hood 
& Co., warrant us in suggesting that all in 
need of a medicine of this kind give 
Hood's Sarsaparilla a trial. — Boston 
Herald. 

" 1 consider Hood's Sarsaparilla one of 
the best medicines for early spring, when 
the blood is in a low condition and needs 
cleansing. I have been benefited by its 
use and have recommended it to my 
friends." I remain yours truly, AV. H, 
Curtis, Ticket Agent, B. & M. E. R. 
Haverhill, Mass., January 5, 1881. 

''Wake 'em Up," 

Meredith Tillage, N. H., Jan. 8, 1881. 
Messrs. C. I. Hood & Co., Lowell, Mass. 

Dear Sirs— Last year I was all used up 
and tried various things without benefit. 
Dr. Mason suggested I try Hood's Sar- 
saparilla, which was meeting quite a 
sale, and doing sick people good. I took ■ 
a bottle home, and I declare I never saw 
anything beat the way it took hold of me 
and lifted me up. I took several bottles 
and it did me more good than all the 
medicine I ever used before. It shariv 
ened my appetite, gave me strength and 
renewed my lease of life. If people want 
a medicine to go all through 'em, and . 



Everybody likes Hood's Sarsaparilla. Try it. 



Steamed Oysters, 

Leave a covered dish "wliere it "will heat, 
■wash and drain the oysters, put them in a 
shallow tin and place it in the steamer, 
cover and leave it over boiling water 
until the oysters are puffed and curled. 
They may be dressed at table when eaten, 
or butter, salt and pepper may be added 
in the kitchen when served in the heated 
dish. Hood's Sarsaparilla enriches the 
blood, 

broiled Oysters. 

Select good sized oysters, drain off the 
liquor, then roll in fine cracker crumbs, 
place on the broiler and cook over a 
bright fire; when brown take off, add to 
each a little butter; serve hot. Hood's 
Sarsaparilla tones the stomach. 

Hoast Beef, 

An onion sliced and put on top of a 
roast wliile cookmg gives a nice flavor. 
Eemove the onion before serving. Hood's 
Sarsaparilla restores the system. 

Steamed Leg of Mutton, 

Steam a leg of mutton mitil tender, then 
place in a roastiug-pan, salt and dredge 
well with flour and set in a hot oven until 
nicely browned; the water that remains 
in the bottom of the steamer may be used 
for soup. See mutton soup. - Hood's Sar- 
saparilla cures dyspepsia. 

Balked Harn, 

Take a medium-sized ham and soak 
twenty-four hours in cold water; wipe 
and scrape clean; make rather a stiff 
paste of rye meal and water, cover the 
ham entirely with the paste and bake in a 
moderate oven six hours. This is much 
nicer than boiled ham. Diphtheritic 
poison in the blood neutralized by Hood's 
Sarsapafilla. 

Apple Fritters, 

Beat to a froth two eggs, and stir into 
this half a pint of milk, one teaspoonf ul 
of salt, two cups of flour; pare and core 



wake 'em up, tell them to take Hood's 
Sarsaparilla. Yours, Freeman X. Bixby. 

Biliousness, 

A bitter taste, breath offensive, tongue 
coated, sick headache, drowsiness, dizzi- 
ness, loss of appetite. This condition, 
commonly termed biUousness, undoubt- 
edly occurs oftener in the spring than at 
any other season. If this condition is 
allowed to continue unheeded, serious 
consequences may follow. By prompt 
action and mild means a fever may be 
avoided, or the sowing of seed for a prc- 
matm-e death may be prevented. Hood's 
Sarsaparilla combines the best anti-bil- 
ious remedies of the vegetable kingdom, 
and in such proportion as to derive the 
full medicinal effects with the least dis- 
turbance to the whole system. 

In fact this preparation is so well bal- 
anced m its actions upon the alimentary 
canal, the liver, the kidneys, the stomach, 
the bowels and the circulation of the 
blood, that it brings about a healthy ac- 
tion of the entire human organism, that 
can hardly be credited by those who have 
not seen the remarkable results that have 
followed its uUbc. If the Sarsaparilla does 
not prove sufficiently laxative, take a few 
doses of Hood's Vegetable Pills. It is 
well in all cases of biliousness to take 
these pills in connection with the Sarsa- 
parilla for the first ten days. That dull, 
sleepy, sick feeling can be wholly over- 
come by the use of these remedies. Will 
you give them a trial and be yourself 
agam? 

Price one dollar, or six bottles for five 
dollars. Prepared only by C. I. Hood & 
Co., Apothecaries, Lowell, Mass. 



* * * * I am subject to severe bilious 
attacks. Last Spring I used Hood's Sar- 
saparilla and was much benefited by it. 
* * * * I think it a very excellent 
medicme, and cheerfully recommend it 
for biliousness and all impurities of the 
blood. Youi-s truly, Mrs. J. "W. Clement, 
Franklin, N. H. 

SicJc Headache, 

" Yom- preparation has worked wonders 
in the case of my -svife, who has been 



Only a penny a dose — Hood's Sarsaparilla. 



nice tart apples, cut in slices, dip them in 
the batter, being sure to have the apple 
well covered, and fry in boiling lard a deli- 
cate brown; sprinkle with sugar or dis- 
solve any kind of jelly in a little hot 
water and pour over the fritters. Hood's 
Sarsaparilla rouses the appetite when 
others fail. 

Dressing for Sandwiches, 

One-half lb. of nice butter, two table- 
spoonfuls of mixed mustard, three table- 
spooitfuls of salad oil, a little red or white 
pepper, a little salt, yolk of one egg; rub 
the butter to a cream, add the other in- 
gredients and mix thoroughly, set away 
to cool; spread the bread Aviththis mix- 
ture and put in the ham, chopped fine. 
Cheap— One hundred doses Hood's Sars- 
aparilla one dollar. 

CJiicken Croquettes. 

One pound of finely chopped cooked 
chicken; season with l^ teaspoonful of 
pepper, 1/2 tablespoonful of salt, % table- 
spoonful of butter; mix with this 1 egg 
and nearly half a pint of cream, a little 
lemon juice and 1/2 teaspoonful of onion 
juice; have the board lightly sprinkled 
with fine cracker crumbs and roll the 
croquettes until they are shaped in the 
form of little cylinders; when they are all 
shaped, beat the eggs light and cover the 
croquettes with it; now have the board 
thickly covered with cracker crumbs and 
roll the egg-covered croquettes in these; 
fry in a croquette basket in boiling fat 
until a light brown. Instead of cream, 
chicken stock may be used; veal, mutton, 
lamb and turkey may be used. Pleasant 
to take— Hood's Sarsaparilla. 

Lyonaise Potatoes, 

One pint of cold boiled potatoes cut into 
small pieces, season with salt and pepper; 
one spoonful of butter, one slice of onion 
cut very fine, one teaspoonful chopped 
parsley; add parsley to potatoes, fry 
onion brown in the butter, then add pota^ 
toes and fry; use fork to turn them in- 
stead of knife. A beautiful preparation, 
Hood's Sarsaparilla. 



troubled with sick headache and bilious- 
ness for years. She found that within a 
a week after taking it she felt very much 
better, and is now entirely free from 
those severe headaches." Yours truly, 
Homer B. Nash, Pittsfield, Mass. 



" We feel that we are doing the public a 
favor in calling their attention particu- 
larly to Hood's Sarsaparilla. This is not 
a patent medicine, but is a proprietary 
ai'ticle possessing real curative proper- 
ties, and its effects upon the Blood are 
very positive. Spring Debility, Bilious- 
ness, Dyspepsia and all troubles caused 
by impure blood readily yield to this ex- 
cellent medicine. We think those who 
give it a trial for that 'out of sorts' 
feeling from which so many suffer and is 
peculiar to this season, will be quite satis- 
fied with the results."— ^2>ri7ig/ieZ(Z Re- 
publican. 

Dij)htheria, 

We cannot speak too strongly of the 
importance of securing the services of the 
best physician at your command when- 
ever the symptoms of this disease show 
themselves. Promptness may save the 
life of the patient. The horrible prostra- 
tion and the powerless exhaustion which 
cling to the convalescent, are overcome 
by the wonderful restoring and invigor- 
ating properties of Hood's Sarsaparilla, 
which vitalizes and enriches the blood, 
neutralizes and eradicates the poisoned 
matter from it, giving to the sufferer 
an appetite and the life and vigor of ro- 
bust health. We honestly believe that 
eveiy person recovering from Diphtheria 
would add great stability to their health 
if they would take Hood's Sarsaparilla, 
and thus purify their blood from the kill- 
ing poison which this terrible disease 
always leaves with its victim. 

We refer by permission to Mr. J. K. 
Smith, Lowell, Mass., Mrs. B.^M. Pres- 
cott, Franklin, N. H., Mrs. E. F. Metcalf,. 
Winchester, Mass., and many others. 

Hood's Sarsaparilla prepared only by 
C. I. Hood & Co., Apothecaries, Lowell, 
Mass. Price one dollar a bottle, or six 
for five dollars. 



Hood's Sarsaparilla is sold by all J>ruggists, 



Muffins, 

One pint of milk, piece of butter size of 
an egg, one-half cup of yeast, two eggs, 
and flour enough to make a stiff batter; 
put the milk on to boil and put the butter 
into it, when the milk is nearly cool add 
the eggs beaten, the yeast and flour; let 
it rise six hours; bake in muffm rings. 
A reliable medicine— Hood's Sarsaparilla. 

Rice Sreacl, 

Mix well together one pint of well- 
boiled rice (one pint after it is cooked), 
one-half pint of flour, the yolks of six 
eggs, beat the whites to a stiff froth; two 
tablespoonfuls butter, one pint milk, salt, 
mix well together and add the whites of 
eggs last. Bake in shallow tins in a hot 
oven. No mud and grit in Hood's Sarsa- 
parilla. 

Hominy Corn JPone, 

Two teacups of boiled small hominy 
(sometimes called grits), while hot stir m 
a large spoonful of butter; add four eggs 
and one pint of milk, one-half pint yellow 
corn meal; the batter should be as thick 
as a rich boiled custard, if thicker add a 
little more milk. Bake in a hot oven. 
Avoid syrups and sweets and take Hood's 
Sarsaparilla. 

Saratoga Corn Cake, 

Four eggs, one-half lb. of sugar, mixed 
together with a wire beater; melt one- 
fom-th lb. of butter and add to it; one qt. 
of milk, one-half oz. of baking soda (dis- 
solved in the milk) and a little salt; 
add it all to the first mixture, stir thor- 
oughly, then add one lb. of white corn 
meal, one lb. of flour, one oz. of cream of 
tartar mixed with the flour before adding 
to the other ingredients. Bake m a mod- 
erate oven. A carefully prepared con- 
centrated extract— Hood's Sarsaparilla. 

Mother's Brown Bread, 

Three pints of corn meal, one pint of 
rye meal, one cup of molasses, two cups 
of sour milk, one teaspoonful of soda, one 
quart of warm water, one teaspoonful of 
salt. Bake three hours in a moderate 
oven. A combmation peculiar to itself— 
Hood's Sarsaparilla. 



Mills and Stores, 

It will be observed that those persons 
employed in mills and stores, and exclud- 
ed from the light of the sun, breathing an 
atmosphere not always pm-e, are particu- 
larly subject to a pale, waxy, blanched, 
bloodless countenance, and often suffer 
from extreme weariness, irregular state 
of the bowels, general debility, mental 
depression, loss of sleep and want of 
appetite which would be largely relieved 
by a life of " out-door" exercise; but this 
being out of the question, the next best 
thing is Hood's Sarsaparilla, which sup- 
plies to the blood and to all the fimctions 
of the body a degree of vital force v/liick 
has not been produced by any other medi- 
cine. "We write with a degree of positive 
assurance which is warranted by a large 
observation of actual facts that fully justi- 
fy this statement. This accoimts in part 
for the great and growmg popularity of 
Hood's Sai'sapar ilia among the merchants, 
the clerks and the operatives in the mills 
of our city. A physician once said to us— 
" If you could bottle country air and rest, 
your fortmie would be assured." Of 
course that would be impossible, but we 
have the next thing to it in Hood's Sarsa- 
parilla, a remedy that restores and reno- 
vates every part of the system, vitalizes, 
purifies and enriches the blood, gives 
tone and vigor to the stomach, and im- 
parts new life and energy to all the func- 
tions of the body. Hood's Sarsaparilla is 
sold by all druggists. Price $1, or 6 bottles 
for §5. 

A Netv Departure, 

"Ohe good result of the hard times a few 
years ago, was the bringing into life an 
article inproprietarymedicine,which gave 
to every purchaser a full equivalent for 
his money. The rule of this class of 
medicines is from 10 to 25 doses for $1, 
the best only reaching 40. Messrs. Hood 
& Co took a new departure and in the 
article now so well and favorably known 
as Hood's Sarsaparilla, they gave the 
unprecedented quantity of 100 doses for 
§1. These facts commend this remedy to 
the consideration of the sick, also of the 
well, for they are liable to be sick."— 
Boston Weekly Journal. 



An Aldervian says Hood's Sarsaparilla is the strongest. 



Creamy Sauce. 

One-half cup of butter, one cup of pow- 
dered sugar, four tablespoonfuls of cream 
or milk, four tablespoonfuls of wine, or in 
place of wine, one teaspoonful of vanilla 
and three additional teaspoonfuls of milk 
or cream; beat the butter to a cream, add 
sugar gradually, then Avine gradually and 
milk gradually. Place the bowl in which 
the sauce has been made in a basin of 
boiling water; stir a few minutes imtil it 
looks smooth and it is ready to serve. 
[See Sweet Sauce.]— J/tss Parloa, Hood's 
Sarsaparilla— the strongest and best. 

Sweet Sauce, 

stir to a cream, one cup of butter with 
two of sugar; pour into the Dutter and 
sugar a teacup of boiling w-ater, beat an 
egg light, and mix it gradually with the 
other ingredients before they become hot; 
mix half a teaspoonful of flour in a little 
cold water, free from lumps, stir it into 
the sauce and beat the whole constantly 
until hot enough to thicken; add nutmeg. 
This is proper for all boiled puddings, 
especially beiTy, and also baked berry 
puddmgs. Hood's Sarsaparilla makes 
the weak strong. 

Munter's JPudding, 

1 lb. raisins, 1 lb. currants, 1 lb. suet, 1 
lb. bread crumbs, Va lb. moist sugar, 8 
eggs, 1 table spoonful flour, 14 lb. citron, 
1 glass brandy, 10 drops essence of al- 
monds, 1/2 nutmeg, mace and cloves; 
stone and chop the raisins, chop the suet 
very finely, and rub the bread until all 
the lumps are well broken; pound the 
spice to powder, cut the citron mto thin 
shreds; mix all these ingredients well to- 
gether, adding the sugar; beat the eggs 
to a strong froth, and as they are beaten, 
drop into them the essence of almonds; 
stir these into the dry ingredients, mix 
well and add the brandy; tie the pudding 
firmly into a buttered cloth, or put into a 
mould and boil or steam it 8 hom's. To 
remove humors take Hood's Sarsaparilla. 

Apples in Mice* 

Scoop out the cores and pare very 
neatly half a dozen good-sized apples. 



Dpspepsia 

Is occasioned by over-loading the 
stomach, eating indigestible food, or 
other causes too numerous to mention. 
It is manifested by a painful sense of 
fulness after eating, more or less disten- 
sion from wmd or gas, heartburn, nausea, 
vomiting, looseness of the bowels or con- 
stipation. Succeeding these symptoms 
are loss of appetite, coating of the tongue, 
an unpleasant taste, and nervous irrita- 
bility, great languor and incapacity for 
exertion, accompanied in some cases by 
an ahnost irresistible drowsmess. If you 
are a sufferer, and have tried everything 
without benefit till yom- patience and 
faith are both exhausted, do not give up 
till you have given Hood's Sarsaparilla a 
trial. It has brought happiness to many 
a sufferer and you cannot tell that it will 
not to you. It astonishes those who have 
used Hood's Sarsaparilla to see what a 
toning effect it has upon the digestive 
apparatus. It is accomplished by the 
mildest and most direct action upon those 
parts which are exhausted by too much 
labor or too much abuse. It seems to 
throw protection around them for a time 
till its effects upon the general constitu- 
tion can be realized, the whole system 
built up and a permanent cure is accom- 
plished. 

Hood's Sarsaparilla is prepared only by 
C. I. Hood & Co., apothecaries, Lowell, 
Mass. Price one dollar per bottle, or six 
bottles for five dollars. Sold by druggists. 
Dyspepsia does not get well of itself. 
It requires cai-eful, persistent attention. 



I have suffered constantly from sick 
headache and dyspepsia. Before I had 
taken two bottles of Hood's Sarsaparilla 
I was much better. I am rarely troubled 
Avith hcadaclie now, and my food does 
not distress me as it did. Very truly 
yours, Helen J. Morrill, 133 Cross Street, 
Lowell, Mass. 



* * * * Last December I used Hood's 
Sarsaparilla for dyspepsia and general 
prostration, and received very gratifying 
results. I consider it a valuable remedy 



Hood's Sarsaparilla eradicates scrofula. 



boil them in thin clarified sugar, let them 
imbibe the sugar, and be careful to pre- 
serve their form; make a marmalade with 
some other apples, adding to it four oz. 
of rice, previously boiled in milk, with 
sugar and butter and the yolks of two or 
three eggs; put them into a dish for table ; 
surround it with a border of rice and 
marmalade, and bake it. Worthy your 
confidence— Hood's Sarsaparilla. 

Birds' Nest I*udding, 

Take eight or ten good flavored apples, 
pare and core, leaving them whole; place 
in a pudding-dish, fill the cores with 
sugar and a little grated nutmeg; then 
make a custard, allowing five eggs to a 
quart of milk, and sweeten to taste; 
pour this over the apples and bake about 
half an hour. Hood's Sarsaparilla acts 
upon the kidneys, liver and bowels. 

Tapioca Cup Pudding, 

This is very light and delicate for in- 
valids. An even tablespoonful of tapioca, 
soaked for two hoiurs in nearly a cup of 
new milk, stir into this the yolk of a fresh 
tgg, a little sugar, a grain of salt, and 
bake it in a cup for 15 minutes. A little 
jelly may be eaten with it. Hood's Sar- 
saparilla invigorates the nerves. 

Queen Pudding, 

Soak 1 pint of bread-crumbs in 1 pint of 
milk, beat the yolks of 8 eggs and whites 
of 4 with 1 cupful of sugar, flavor with 
lemon, add 1 tablespoonful of butter and 
bake; beat the four whites of eggs that 
were left out, with a cupful of sugar, put 
it over the pudding as soon as baked, and 
cook it until the meringue is a light brown. 
We know Hood's Sarsaparilla is worth a 
trial. 

Eve JPudding, 

6 oz. finely-grated bread, 6 oz. currants, 
6 oz. of sugar, 6 eggs, 6 apples, some 
lemon-peel and nutmeg; let it boil three 
hours. Serve with a nice sauce. Now is 
a good time to tiy Hood's Sarsaparilla. 

Snoiv Pudding, 

6 eggs, etablespoonfuls corn starch, not 
very heaping, a little salt, one table- 



for indigestion and attendant troubles. 
Yom-s truly, F. C. Churchill, firm of Car- 
ter & Churchill, Lebanon, N. H. 

^^ Awful Distress," 

Dear Sirs— I have been troubled with 
dyspepsia, indigestion and debility for 
years. Nothing reached my case till I 
found Hood's Sarsaparilla. Six bottles 
cured me. Now I can eat anything with- 
out that awful distress; have a tremend- 
ous appetite, and am free from that tired 
feeling. I cannot praise your Sarsaparilla 
too highly. Very truly yours, Park Patten, 
Gardiner, Me. 

Catarrh, 

On the strength of the following facts 
we feel justified in calling the attention of 
all who suffer from this disagreeable dis- 
ease (whether it be a recent or chronic 
case) and suggest that they give Hood's 
Sarsaparilla a trial. It is only fair and 
reasonable to expect that it will do again 
what it has ah-eady done. 

Smell Lost. A city official met us on 
the street one day with the question, 
" Will Hood's Sarsaparilla cure catarrh?" 
He went on to say, " I know a case in a 
neighboring town of a lady who had 
catarrh so for years that it finally de- 
stroyed her sense of smell. She took 
Hood's Sarsaparilla and it restored her 
sense of smell." 

Copious Discharge. A mother said 
tons a few days since, "Did you know 
that Hood's Sarsaparilla was a great 
remedy for catarrh. "VMiy, my boy had it 
so I could hardly keep him in clean hand- 
kerchiefs. He has taken one bottle, and 
that terrible amount of discharge has 
stopped." 

I have had catarrh for years. Last April 
the dropping in my throat became un- 
usually troublesome, and I became some- 
what alarmed, as it seemed to affect my 
right lung. I took two bottles of Hood's 
Sarsaparilla, and I think it has cured me. 
My appetite, which was variable before, is 
first-rate now. Very truly yours, Charles 
H. Griffin, 69 ' Summer Street, Lowell, 
Mass. 



Hood's Sarsaparilla cures dyspepsia. 



10 



spoonful of sugar and the juice of one 
lemon; dissolve the corn starch in a little 
cold water and turn l qt. of boiling water 
upon it; add the salt, sugar and juice of 
lemon, then add the whites of the eggs 
heaten to a stiff froth and stir well; set 
in a hasin of boiling water and scald ten 
minutes, turn into a mould and set away 
to harden; scald V/2 pints of milk, add 
yolks of eggs beaten light, and sugar 
enough to make pretty sweet, and stir 
mitil It begins to thicken, add a little salt 
and flavor to taste ; turn the snow out of 
the mould into a glass dish and pour the 
cream aromid it. Invest one dollar in 
Hood's Sarsaparilla; you'll not regret it. 

Charlotte Musse, 

Make a sponge cake of 3 eggs, 1 V2 cups 
of sugar, 2 cups of flour, 1/2 cup of cold 
water, 1 teaspoonful cream tartar, 1/2 
teaspoonful of soda. Beat the sugar and 
eggs together, when light add the water, 
then the flour, in which the cream of 
tartar and soda are thoroughly mixed. 
Flavor with lemon. Bake in tin sheets in 
a quick oven. Line the Charlotte Eusse 
mould with strips of the cake, leaving 
narrow spaces between the pieces of cake. 
Filling: Yolks of 5 eggs, 1/2 cup of sugar, 
1 teaspoonful of vanilla, y^ box of gelatine, 
% cup of milk, 1 pint of cream. Soak the 
gelatine in a little cold water one or two 
hours; beat the yolks of eggs and sugar 
together, have the cream whipped to a 
stiff froth and set the dish into another 
dish of ice water; let the milk come to a 
boil, stir gelatine into this and pour the 
boiling mixture on eggs and sugar, 
place in a basin of ice water and stir until 
it begins to thicken, then add the whipped 
cream. Stir from the bottom until it is 
cool enough to jiist pour and turn mto 
the mould. Hood's Sarsaparilla works 
wonders in the blood. 

Strawberry Cream. 

Pick the stalks from a box of straw- 
berries, bruise them with a wooden 
spoon in a basin, with six ounces of fine 
sugar, rub this through a clean hair 
sieve, add a pint of whipped cream and 
two ounces of isinglass or gelatine, which 



Hood's Sarsaparilla is prepared only by 
C. I. Hood & Co., Apothecaries, Lowell, 
]\Iass. Price $1, six for $;5. 

Neuralgia, 

As most neuralgic pains are doubtless 
the result of a Ioav condition of the sys- 
tem or a disordered state of the blood, 
Hood's Sarsaparilla is a very excellent 
medicine to take at all times. If its use 
is persisted in till the system is built up, 
the blood purified, and its circulation re- 
Stored to a healthy condition, the cause 
being removed, the disease will usually 
disappear. We cannot speak too enthu- 
siastically of the wonderful power of 
Hood's Sarsaparilla in the cure of head- 
ache and other pains that are generally 
classed under the head of neuralgia, be- 
cause so many cures have been reported 
to us and so much happiness expressed by 
those who have been permanently cured 
by using Hood's Sarsaparilla. 

Writing of Neuralgia, Eomberg says of 
the pain characteristic of it: "It seems 
as if pain were the prayer of the nerve 
for healthy blood." Hood's Sarsapaillla 
is the best remedy for purifying, vitaliz- 
ing and enriching the blood and making 
it healthy. Prepared only by C. I. Hood 
& Co. , Apothecaries, LoAvell, Mass. Price 
one dollar a bottle, or six for five dollars. 

Sore 3Iouth» 

Gents— It gives me pleasm-e to write 
you that Hood's Sarsaparilla cured me of 
a sore mouth, which had troubled me five 
years. I tried most everything before I 
heard of your Sarsaparilla. Yours truly, 
]\Irs. E. Buttrick, West Lynn, Mass. 

Kidney Complaint, 

" I have suffered from kidney complaint 
for fifteen years. Have tried everything. 
Have taken two bottles of Hood's Sarsa- 
parilla; the backache, dizziness, pain in 
my chest and arms, and that feeling of 
intense weariness are all gone. I can eat 
anytliing. Feel just like work; in fact, 
like a new man. Can heartily recommend 
Hood's Sarsaparilla." Very truly yours, 
Jonathan J. Coburn, Dracut, Mass. 



Hood's Sarsaparilla purifies the blood. 



11 



has been dissolved together, mix with the 
strained strawberries and put in the 
mould. Everybody likes Hood's Sarsa- 
par ilia— try it. 

Celestine Cream. 

Imbed a plain mould in some rough ice. 
Lme the bottom and sides of the mould 
with fresh picked strawberries, taking 
care to put each in dissolved gelatine, in 
which there has been mixed some maras- 
chino or other wine, when the interior of 
the mould is completely lined on the 
bottom and sides, fill the interior with 
the preceding cream. Only a penny a 
dose— Hood's Sarsaparilla. 

Frosting, 

Soak 1 teaspoonful of gelatine in 1 table- 
spoonful of cold water half an hour, dis- 
solve in 2 tablespoonfuls of hot water, 
add one cup of powdered sugar and stir 
until smooth. Hood's Sarsaparilla is sold 
by all druggists. 

. Sjyonge Drops, 

Beat to a froth 3 eggs and 1 teacup of 
sugar; stir into this one heaping coffee 
cup of flour, in which one teaspoonful of 
cream of tartar and half a teaspoonful of 
saleratus are thoroughly mixed. Flavor 
with lemon. Butter tin sheets with washed 
butter, and drop in teaspoonfuls about 
three inches apart. Bake instantly in a 
very quick oven. Watch closely as they 
will burn easily. Serve with ice cream. 
An Alderman says Hood's Sarsaparilla is 
the strongest. 

Shrewsbury Cakes, 

14 lb. butter, 1/4 lb. granulated sugar, 6 
oz. flour, 1 teaspoonful of pounded cinna- 
mon and mace, 1 egg. Beat the sugar and 
butter to a cream, then add the egg and 
spice; then stir in very gradually the 
flour; rollout the paste as thin as possi- 
ble, and cut into cookies and bake. A 
teaspoonful of water will prevent the 
mixture sticking to the board. Take 
Hood's Sarsaparilla now. 

Cocoanut Cookies, 

1 cup of sugar, % cup of butter, l egg, 
2 tablespoonfuls milk, 1 teaspoonful cream 



Skill vs. Ignorance, 

" As a perfect pharmaceutical prepara- 
tion, we are told that Hood's Sarsaparilla 
surpasses any proprietary article upon 
the market. Even to our inexperienced 
eye we see positive indications of the 
truth of the foregoing. A glance at the 
article shows the scrupulous neatness and 
care with which the detail of its manu- 
facture and putting up must be conduct- 
ed. These points are of importance in 
any business, but in the manipulations of 
remedies for the relief of human suffer- 
ing they become of supreme importance, 
and only such medicines are worthy 
public confidence."— ITarf/orc? Coiirant. 



A gentleman of unquestionable re- 
liability, gives us the following history of 
a case: "A lady was so reduced by dis- 
ease that her blood had begun to turn to 
water, her feet and legs swelled, her 
tongue, mouth and throat were so raw that 
she could only take milk and water. In 
three days after taking Hood's Sarsapa- 
rilla her tongue, mouth and throat were 
nearly well. In a few months she gained 
from one hundred and twelve to one hun- 
dred and forty pounds. Her husband 
was opposed to her taking a proprietary 
medicine and it was smuggled to her 
under the name of ' the Doctor's medi- 
cine.' He has since recommended it." 

Eeader, do you think this a big story? 
We give you our word of honor that it is 
true. Knowing this, do you wonder at 
our confidence in the future of Hood's 
Sarsaparilla? 

Another case— "A young man had a 
terrible sore on his neck, which used him 
up so thoroughly that his recovery was 
doubtful. Hood's Sarsaparilla cured 
him." 

Sood's Sarsaparilla 

Works through the blood, regulating, 
toning and invigorating all the functions 
of the body. Sold by druggists. Price 
$1, or six for $5. C. I. Hood & Co., Low- 
ell, Mass. 



Take Hood's Sarsaparilla now. 



12 



of tartar, y^ teaspoonful soda, a little 
salt, 1 cup of cocoanut. Hood's Sarsapa- 
rilla purifies tlie blood. 

Mrs, Bly's Ginger Snaps, 

1 cup of sugar, 1 cup of molasses, I cup 
butter and lard, 1 teaspoonful salt, 2 tea- 
spoonfuls ginger, 3 teaspoonfuls cream of 
tartar, 2 teaspoonfuls soda dissolved in Vi 
cup of boiling water. Hood's Sarsapa- 
rilla cures dyspepsia. 

Ladies' Fingers, 

1 cup of sugar, 14 cup of butter beaten 
together, 1 egg, V4 cup of niilk, 1 pint of 
flour, 1 teaspoonful cream of tartar, V2 
teaspoonful soda, l V4 teaspoonfuls of 
vanilla. Cut in little strips, roll in sugar 
and bake in a quick oven. Use your 
bands to roll them, instead of a rolling 
pin. Hood's Sarsaparilla eradicates 
scrofula. 

Almond tfunibles. 

One pound of sugar, one-half pound of 
butter, one pound of almonds blanched 
and chopped fine, two eggs, flour enough 
to mix stiff. Roll thin, moisten the top 
of each one with the white of egg, and 
sprinkle with sugar. Bake quickly. 
Hood's Sarsaparilla the best spring 
medicine. 

Macaroons, 

Half a pound of sweet almonds, blanch- 
ed and pounded fine, with onetablespoon- 
ful of rose water; whites of three eggs 
beaten to a stiff froth, stir in half a pound 
of powdered sugar and add the almonds. 
Drop the mixture with a spoon on butter- 
ed tin sheets, and bake in a cool oven. 
To cure biliousness take Hood's Sarsa- 
parilla. 

Soft Gingerbread, 

One egg, one cup of molasses, one-third 
cup of melted butter, one-half cup of 
milk, one teaspoonful of saleratus, one 
teaspoonful of ginger, two and one-half 
cups of flour, a little salt. Hood's Sarsa- 
parilla builds up the system. 

Frankie's Composition Cake, 

11/2 lbs. of sugar, 1 lb. and 2 oz. butter, 
8 eggs, a full coffee cup of milk, 11/2 nut- 



Scrofula, 

Probably no form of disease is so gen- 
erally distributed among our population 
as scrofula, hence a remedy that destroys 
the germs of this disease, and when 
settled, has the power to eradicate it, 
must be appreciated by the afflicted. 
The remarkable cures of children, of 
those of middle age, and of those late in 
life, as demonstrated by testimonials, 
prove that Hood's Sarsaparilla contains 
remedial agents that positively eradicate 
scrofula from the blood. The terrible 
sufferings of those afflicted by scrofulous 
sores cannot be understood by others, 
and the intensity of their gratitude to a 
remedy that cm'es them, may astonish a 
well person. 

Dear Sirs— I think the cure of Mrs. 
Cole of scrofulous sores, by Hood's Sarsa- 
parilla, a miracle. I could not believe it 
till I received a letter from her saymg it 
was true. Her statement does not ex- 
aggerate her terrible sufferings. When 
she went to Westford we didn't think it 
possible for her to get well. I know 
several who have used Hood's Sarsapa- 
rilla with excellent results. With best 
wishes for the success of your good medi- 
cine, I am yours truly, ]Mrs. Sarah J. 
Davis, Manchester, N. H. 

$5 VS. $300, 
Cancer in the Stomach, 

Dear Sirs— Six years ago last April my 
mother, Mrs. Benj. Clement, of Warner, 
N. H., gave up work, on account of cancer 
in the stomach. Food caused intense 
distress, and she took only enough 
nourishment to sustain life. We spared 
no expense to find relief. We paid out 
more than $300, without avail. At last 
we found Hood's Sarsaparilla. "NVlien she 
had taken one bottle she wrote me, "I 
can eat anything I desire Avitliout being 
distressed. It is surprising to see the 
good it has done me." These are the 
facts as short as I can give them. She 
has taken five bottles. Very truly yours, 
H. M. Clement, 127 Hildreth Street, 
Lowell, Mass. Hood's Sarsaparilla ispre- 
pai-ed onlyby C. I. Hood & Co., apothe- 
caries, Lowell, Mass. Price one dollar; 
six bottles, five dollars. Sold by di-uggists. 



Hood's Sarsaparilla builds up the system. 



13 



meg, a little cinnamon mixed with it, 1 
wine glass of brandy, IVg It's, of flour, 
1% lbs. of fruit, V4 lb. citron, % teaspoon- 
ful soda. Beat the whites of the eggs to 
a froth, then put in the yolks and have 
that come to a froth. To sharpen the 
appetite take Hood's Sarsaparilla. 

Rich Coffee Cake, 

Two cupfuls of butter, three of sugar, 
one of molasses, one of very strong 
coffee, one of cream or rich milk, the 
yolks of eight eggs, one pound each of 
raisins and currants, one-half pound each 
of citron and figs, and five cupfuls of 
browned flour after it is sifted. Put the 
flour in the oven, and watch well to keep 
from bm-ning, mitil it is a nice brown; 
when cold, sift with it three teaspoonfuls 
of baking-powder and a little salt. Cut 
the figs in as long strips as you can; 
dredge all the fruit with flour; beat the 
cake up well, and bake in a salt-box, 
lined with nice thick brown paper, well- 
buttered, in a moderate oven, from four to 
five hours. A reliable medicine— Hood's 
Sarsaparilla. 

Maine Plum Cake, 

A pound each of butter, sugar and flour, 
ten eggs, a pound of raisins, two of cur- 
rants, half a poimd of citron, a teaspoon- 
ful of powdered clove, half as much mace, 
a nutmeg, the juice of a lemon and grated 
peel, half a teacup of good molasses. 
Beat butter to a cream, add sugar, beat 
the whites and yolks separately, and add 
them to butter and sugar; then by degrees 
put in two-thirds of the flour, in which one 
teaspoonf ul of cream of tartar is thorough- 
ly mixed, then add one-half teaspoonful 
of soda, dissolved in a spoonful of boiling 
water; then add the fruit mixed with the 
flour that remains, stirring the cake fast 
a few minutes. Bake in one tin five hours 
In a moderate oven. Cure Salt Rheum by 
taking Hood's Sarsaparilla. 

Barnard Cake, 

One cup of butter, 3 cups of sugar, 41/2 
cups of flour, 4 eggs, l cup of sour milk; 
the juice and a little of the rind of a lemon, 
and one teaspoonful of saleratus. Diph- 
theritic convalescents should take Hood's 
Sarsaparilla. 



The Wonderful 

Power of Hood's Sarsaparilla in eradi- 
cating every form of scrofula has been 
so clearly and fully demonstrated that it 
leaves no shadow of doubt about its be- 
ing the greatest medical discovery of this 
generation. 

Scrofulous sores, or ulcers, covering 
large portions of the body, have yielded 
to the wonderful purifying effects of 
Hood's Sarsaparilla when all other means 
had totally failed to reach the disease. 

Scrofulous ulceration of the eyelids, 
which is known to all as one of the most 
obstinate forms to cure, which this uni- 
versal taint in the blood frequently as- 
sumes, has also repeatedly demonstrated 
the astonishing power of Hood's Sarsa- 
parilla, in thoroughly eradicating this 
poisonous matter from the blood. 

Scrofulous bunches on the neck and 
face are Indications of a need of a 
a thorough cleansing of the blood. Even 
if they do not give trouble at present, 
they may produce serious results, and no 
one can afford to pass the admonition 
without acting wisely. 

No remedy has been so successful as 
Hood's Sarsaparilla, in reducing these 
bunches and thoroughly cleansing the 
whole system of the pernicious effects of 
this type of scrofula. 

Ten Years, 

"For ten years I suffered from scrofu- 
lous sores, which reduced me to a helpless 
condition. I cannot refrain from ex- 
pressing my gratitude for the permanent 
cure Hood's Sarsaparilla effected in my 
case nearly two years ago, when my 
physicians gave me up. I have recom- 
mended your Sarsaparilla to more than a 
thousand cases, and my faith in its in- 
vincibility in curing scrofula has become 
absolute by the wonderful cures it has 
effected aside from my oavu. I trust you 
will not be slow in making the merits of 
Hood's Sarsaparilla known everywhere, 
for it is a duty you owe to mankind. 
AVith best wishes, I remain very truly 
yours, Sarah C. Whittier, Warner, N. H." 



To cure hiliousness, take Hood's Sarsaparilla. 



14 



Dayton Cake, 

Five eggs, 5 cups of flour, 3 cups of 
sugar, 11/2 cups of butter, 1 cup of water, 
2 teaspoonfuls cream of tartar, 1 teaspoon- 
ful saleratus, a little salt. Flavor with 
lemou. Hood's Tooth Powder is iu 
everybody's mouth, or sliould be. 

French Loaf Cake, 

Two and one-quarter cups of sugar, 5 
cups of flour, 1 cup of milk, 3 eggs, a wine 
glass of brandy, 2 nutmegs, V2 teaspoonful 
of saleratus, V2 lb. raisins, 14 lb. citron. 
Beat butter and sugar to a cream, add 
part of the flour, and the milk a little 
warm, then the beaten yolks, the re- 
mainder of the flour with the whites well 
beaten, spice, brandy, fruit and saleratus. 
Hood's Tooth Powder sweetens the 
breath. 

IFJiite Fruit Cake, 

One cup of butter, 2 cups of sugar, l cup 
of sweet milk, 2 1/2 cups of flour, whites of 
7 eggs, 2 even teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder, 1 pound each of raisins, figs, 
dates and blanched ahnonds, Vk pound of 
citron, cut all fine. Beat all well before 
adding fruit. Stir fruit in last, with a 
sifting of flour over it. Bake slowly. 
Hood's Tooth Powder hardens the gums. 

Vanilla Ice Cream, 

One quart of cream, 1 large cup of sugar, 
IV4 teaspoonfuls of vanilla. A very good 
ice cream may be made with one pint of 
cream and one pint of milk. Hood's 
Tooth Powder whitens the teeth. 

Stratvherry Ice Cream, 

One quart of strawberries, 1 pint of 
sugar, 1/2 pint of milk, 11/2 pint of cream. 
Mash the berries and sugar together, add 
the cream and rub through a fine strainer 
into the freezer. Hood's Tooth Powder 
is only twenty-five cents. 

Pineapple Sherbet, 

One can of pineapple, a small pint of 
sugar, one pint of water, one tablespoon- 
ful of gelatine. Cut the hearts and eyes 
from the fruit, and chop it very fine, add 
the juice from the can, the water and 



Hood^s Tooth Powder 

Is distinguished from all other prepara- 
tions by its extraordinary efficacy in re- - 
moving tartar, ensuring to the teeth a 
most beautiful pearly whiteness. Its 
corrective and astringent properties in- 
duce a healthy action of the gums, and 
a consequent firmness and brightness of 
color. 

Scientific examinations prove Hood's 
Tooth Powder the most effectual in 
destroying the animal and vegetable 
parasitic animalculae, which are the 
causes of decay, and are found to exist on 
nearly all teeth. 

Hood's Tooth Powder is made ,of the 
best materials, critically selected for this 
special purpose, and is guaranteed not to , 
contain any injurious ingredient, and if 
used regularly night and morning it will 
preserve the teeth and gums in a sound 
and ornamental state to old age. 

No other preparation leaves in the 
mouth such a cool, pleasing sensation as 
Hood's Tooth Powder. It neutralizes all 
the offensive secretions of the mouth, 
sweetens the breath and gives to the 
gums a bright, healthy color. 

TFJiat Our Dentists 

Say of Hood's Tooth Powder: "We 
have made a critical examination of 
Hood's Saponaceous Tooth Powder, and 
can assure the public that it does not 
contain anj'thing that can possibly injiure 
the teeth, either mechanically or chemi- 
cally. Very truly yours, G. A. Gerry, 
C. T. Clifford, W. H. Downs, B. Heald, 
A. T. Johnson, G. A. W. Vinal, E. M. 
Nelson." 

Hood's Tooth Powder combines the fol- 
lowing points: Large quantity, best 
quality, low price, a neat patent metallic 
cap, which avoids waste, retams its 
delightful fragrance and makes it con- 
venient for traveling. Only 25 cents a 
bottle. Sold by druggists. Mammoth 
size, 50 cents. 

N. B. The origmal and only genuine 
Hood's Tooth Powder is made by C. I. 
Hood & Co., Apothecaries, Lowell Mass. 
Name blown in every bottle. 



Hood's Tooth P owder sweetens the breath. 



15 



sugar; add the gelatine, which has been 
soaking one or two houi's in cold w^ater 
enough to cover, and dissolved in half a 
cup of boiling water. Use Hood's Olive 
Ointment for burns. 

Lemon Sherbet, 

The juice of five lemons, one pint of 
sugar, one quart of water, one table- 
spoonful of gelatine. Put together like 
the pineapple. Try Hood's Olive Oint- 
ment for chapped lips and hands. It 
cm-es when others fail. 

Chocolate Caramels. 

Three lbs. brown sugar, % lb. butter, 
% lb. of chocolate scraped fine, one pint 
of cream or milk. Melt all these together 
with care, and boil twenty minutes or 
half an hour, stirring constantly. Just 
before taking off the fire, flavor with va- 
nilla and add a small cup of granulated 
sugar. Pour into a buttered tm. Wlien 
partly cool, mark in pieces about an inch 
square. Use Hood's Olive Ointment for 
hard and soft corns. 

Caram,els, 

One cup of molasses, 2 of sugar. Boil 
ten minutes. Add l large tablespoonful 
flour, butter size of an egg, 1/2 lb. choco- 
late. Boil twenty minutes. Hood's Olive 
Ointment is the best family salve. 

Taffy, 

Two cups of brown sugar, l^ cup of 
butter, 4 tablespoonfuls of molasses, 2 
tablespoonfuls of water, 2 tablespoonfuls 
of vinegar. Boil fifteen minutes. Only 
twenty-five cents for a box of Hood's 
Olive Ointment. 

Everton^ Toffee, 

One lb. powdered loaf sugar, Iteacupful 
water, 1/4 lb. butter, 6 drops essence of 
lemon. Put the water and sugar in a 
brass pan on the stove. Beat the butter 
to a cream; when the sugar is dissolved 
add the butter, and keep stirring the mix- 
ture over the fire until it sets. Just be- 
fore the toffee is done add the lemon. 
Use Hood's Olive Ointment for burns. 



Cream, Walnuts, 

^Vhite of one egg; stir into it sufficient 
powdered sugar to make it stiff enough to 
handle, flavor with vanilla; dip the wal- 
nuts into a syrup made of two table- 
spoonfuls of sugar and one of water, 
boiled three or four minutes. Mould the 
cream with your fingers and place be- 
tween the two halves of a walnut. Dates 
or Malaga grapes may be used. To make 
chocolate cream wahiuts, stir two table- 
spoonfuls of melted chocolate into the 
cream. Hood's Olive Ointment is the 
best family salve. 

Hood's Olive Ointment 

Is made of carefully-selected barks, 
gums, choice olive oil and other ingredi- 
ents particularly celebrated for then- 
healing and soothing properties. We 
cannot speak too positively of its value as 
a family salve, in curing chapped lips and 
hands, hard and soft corns, ingrowing 
nails, boils, burns, sores, salt rheum oi 
eczema, cuts, flesh-wounds, scrofulous 
sores, pimples, tetter, festers, cutaneous 
diseases, eruptions, sore nipples, broken 
breasts, bruises, inflammation, piles, chil- 
blains, and for the hundred and one 
things for which a good family salve is 
is constantly used. We do not offer it as a 
pile ointment, but it has cured multitudes 
of this distressing complaint when all 
other remedies failed, and these facts 
warrant us in recommending it to our 
patrons for this disease. These remarks 
are equally applicable to that a,nnoying 
affliction, chilblains. Please remember 
that we say with great emphasis and 
truth that no other article approaches 
Hood's Olive Ointment in curative power. 
We know that the experience of all who 
use it will corroborate this statement and 
will cause all to wonder at the marvellous 
healing and soothing properties it com- 
bines. A lady writes, " You don't praise 
your Olive Ointment half enough." 
Another, "We couldn't keep house with- 
out it." Another, "It's the best thing 
to heal I ever saw." A trial captivates 
every one in its favor. Price 25 cents a 
box; five boxes, $1.00. Sent by mail on 
receipt of price. 



Use Hood's Olive Ointment for burns. 



16 



Molasses Candy. 

Two cups of molasses, 1 tablespoonful 
of sugar; stir occasionally while boiling; 
before taking from the fire add butter 
half the size of an egg, and one-third tea- 
spoonful of soda. Pour into buttered tins 
and when cool enough pull it. To cure 
constipation, use Hood's Vegetable Pills^ 

Molasses Candy, 

Two cups of sugar, 1 cup of molasses, 
14 cup of water; after it begms to boil 
add 14 teaspoonful cream of tartar; cook 
in the usual way, but do not stir; before 
taking from the fire, add butter half the 
size of an egg. Do not butter your hands 
while pulling. To stir up the liver, take 
Hood's Vegetable Pills. 

Vinegar Candy. 

Two cups of sugar, one-half cup of 
water, four tablespoonfuls of vinegar; stir 
before putting on the stove, not after. 
Hood's Pills— the best family physic. 

Cocoanut Drops. 

One pound of cocoanut, l pound of 
powdered sugar, small quarter of apomid 
of flour, whites of six eggs. Bake in a 
quick oven. A cold is often annihilated 
by Hood's Pills. 

Ice Cream Candy. 

Two cups of granulated sugar, one-half 
cup of water, add one-fourth teaspoonful 
of cream tartar, dissolved in water, as 
soon as it boils. Boil about ten minutes; 
don't stir. Wlien done it will be brittle 
if dropped in cold water; add butter half 
the size of an egg just before taking off 
the stove; pour into a buttered tin to 
cool, and pull it as hot as possible. Flavor 
while pulling, with vanilla, checkerberry 
or any extract to suit taste. Hood's Pills 
are purely vegetable. 

Fig Candy. 

One cup of sugar, one-third cup of 
water, one-fourth teaspoonful cream of 
tartar. Do not stir while boiling. Boil 
to amber color, stir in the cream of tartar 
just before taking from the fire. Wash 
the figs, open and lay in a tin pan and 
pour the candy over them. A fever is 
often warded ofE by Hood's Pills. 



Peppermints. 

Two cups of sugar, one-half cup of 
water; boil five minutes. Flavor to taste 
with peppermint; stir mitil thick, and 
drop on white paper, well-buttered. To 
cure constipation, use Hood's Vegetable 
Pills. 

Hood's Vegetable Pills 

Are a purely vegetable cathartic medi- 
cine—are made to meet a legitimate de- 
mand for a family physic that is perfectly 
safe— and can be relied upon to do their 
work thoroughly. 

A fever is often warded off by the 
timely use of this efficient cathartic. 

A cold, which might otherwise continue 
for days, is often annihilated in a single- 
night by a dose of Hood's Vegetable 
Pills. 

For constipation and costiveness Hood's 
Vegetable Pills caimot be excelled. The 
importance of keeping the bowels in a 
natural condition cannot be too highly 
regarded, and the sooner people realize 
this truth and put it in operation, the 
sooner shall we find the health of com- 
munities elevated to its normal condition. 

As a dinner-pill they will be found all 
that can be desired. They stimulate the 
stomach, and by assisting digestion pre- 
vent the nausea and distress which so 
frequently occm- after eating or drinking 
too heavily. 

It is a wise custom to have a physic of 
some kind ready for immediate use. The 
necessity which so often compels all to 
resort to a medicine of this kind renders 
it the most important one in the medicine 
closet. Try Hood's Pills. Price only 26 
cents; 5 boxes, $1.00. Sent by mail on- 
receipt of price. 

Caution. Avoid all pills containing 
calomel, mercury, or any mineral sub- 
stance, as they are liable to do harm. 



Rev. James P. Stone, of Dalton, N. H., 
after using Hood's Sarsaparilla, Olive 
Ointment and Vegetable Pills, writes: 
"Your preparations are all they profess 
to be. Mrs. S. says your Pills are the 
best she has ever known." 



Hood* 8 Pills — the best family physic. 



Salt-Mheum, 

Eczema, commonly called Salt-Kheum, 
is a vesicular disease of the skin, char- 
acterized by watery blisters, smaller than 
those of herpes and larger than ordinary 
sudamina (a fine eruption of vesicles on 
the skin), such as are sometimes seen in 
the diflflculty known as " prickly heat." 

Eczema is often accompanied by in- 
tense itching, and is frequently trans- 
formed into a pustula, or scabbing dis- 
ease. It is generally chronic. Its treat- 
ment is both local and general. Hood's 
Olive Ointment is an excellent application. 
Hood's Sarsaparilla, used in numerous 
extremely obstinate cases of Salt-Eheum, 
has by its great toning, alterative and 
piurifying effects upon the system and the 
blood, produced the happiest results, and 
permanently cured those who had pre- 
viously been great sufferers. We recom- 
mend them to your consideration and 
trial, confident by past experience that 
they will not disappoint your most san- 
guine expectations. Hood's Sarsaparilla 
is prepared only by C. I. Hood & Co., 
Lowell, Mass. Price one dollar a bottle; 
six for five dollars. Hood's Olive Oint- 
ment, 25 cents a box. 



Messrs. C. I. Hood & Co.: Three or 
four weeks ago I found one of your Cook 
Books; and your Sarsaparilla was recom- 
mended in such high terms that I have a 
desire to try it, also the Olive Ointment. 
I have succeeded in finding the Sarsapa- 
rilla, but not the Ointment, so I wish you 
to send me by mail a box. My son has a 
humor, and if it cures him you can have 
a testimonial that will be worth some- 
thing. You may direct to him, Edgar F. 
Whitman. Yours truly, Adeline M. Whit- 
man, Raynham, Mass., May 12th. 

C. I. Hood & Co. : Gentlemen— * * * * 
For seven years I have had ring-worm 
"iumor and salt-rheum so badly that my 
">ody was covered with raw sores, as also 
was ray head and face. I have had many 
doctors in the last seven years; none of 
them could cure me. One of them told 
me that I could never be cured. One day 
my mother was in the city of Taunton and 
i:>imd one of your Cook Books, and in 
reading it I found many people testifying 



to cures from the use of your Sarsaparilla 
and Olive Ointment. I felt forced to try 
it, although I had seen a great many 
things advertised that never did me any 
good. I have noAv taken two small bottles 
and one large one of Sarsaparilla, and 
used three boxes of Ointment, and I call 
myself cured. Nothing can be seen of 
this humor but the dim outlines of the 
sores. I am gratefully yours, Edgar F. 
WTiltman, Eaynham, Mass., Aug. 7th. 

Messrs. C. I. Hood& Co., Lowell, Mass.: 
Gentlemen— It gives me pleasure to say a 
word in regard to the excellence of Hood's 
Sarsaparilla and its curative powers. I 
suffered with salt-rhemn eight years, and 
found no relief in the Innumerable patent 
medicines I used, nor in the advice and 
medicines of numerous physicians whom 
I freely employed. I noticed in Hood's 
Cook Book cases similar to mine cured 
by Hood's Sarsaparilla, which inspired 
my confidence. I gave it a trial and 
it cured me. My son was afflicted 
with salt-rheum, also, and it cured him. 
These are the facts, and you can use them 
as you wish. Mrs. Carrie M. Higgins, 
Gloucester, Mass., January l, 1881. 

I sold Mrs. Higgins the Hood's Sarsa- 
parilla referred to in her letter, and know 
the facts are as stated by her. I am 
pleased to state in addition to this that I 
have sold a large amount of Hood's Sarsar 
parilla and it has given universal satis- 
faction. I reconunend it as the best 
blood purifier. W. J. Maddocks, Apothe- 
cary, 107 Main Street, Gloucester, Mass., 
Jan. 3, 1881. 

Gents— Some three months since I pro- 
cured of Mr. C. A. Smith, our druggist, a 
bottle of Hood's Sarsaparilla for my son, 
who was at that time troubled with a 
scrofulous humor. He had several very 
ugly sores between the ankle and knee of 
his right leg, and other lesser ones on 
different parts of his body. He has taken 
only two bottles of your medicine, but the 
sores have disappeared, and he seems to 
be freed from his humor. This trial 
satisfied me of the worth of Hood's Sarsa- 
parilla, and I can heartily recommend its 
use to others, J. ]^r. Ketchum, 

Barre, Vt. 



Hood's Sa 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 




(1!^=-THIS ENGRAVING IS ONE- 
FOURTH THE SIZE OF HOOD'S 
SARSAPARILLA. 




014 485 488 3 # 



Lassiiibde and Languor, peculiar 
to spring and hot weather — Head- 
ache, Dizziness, Constipation, BiL 
iousness, Loss of Appetite, General 
Debility, Boils, Pains in the Back, 
Kidney Complaint, Female Weak- 
nesses, Catarrh, Pimples, Humors 
of the Face, Bing-Worm, Scrofula, 
Scrofulous and Cancerous Humorv, 
Pain in the Bones, Syphilitic Af- 
fections, Ulcers, Sores, Tumors, Salt- 
Bheum, Scald-Head and all dis- 
eases arising from an impure state 
or low condition of the blood. 
Hood's Sarsaparilla tcorks upon 
the Kidneys, the Liver and the 
Bowels. It enters the circulation 
of the blood immediately, purifies, 
vitalizes and enriches this vital 
fluid; and reaching every part oj 
the human system, it tones, invigor- 
ates, strengthens, and rejuvenates all 
the organs and tissues of the body. 
It is nature's great healtli-restorer, 
and is not equaled by any other 
medicine. Sold by Druggists. Price 
one dollar; six bottles, five dollars. 



PRESENTED BY 



a I. HOOD rf CO., A.potKeccLrUs, 

Barristers' Hall, opposite Post Office, 
LOWELL, MASS. 



7l 

//775 




LiBRftRY OF CONGRESS 

mm 

014 485 488 3 » 



