
THE LIBRARY 

OF 

THE UNIVERSITY 
OF CALIFORNIA 

LOS ANGELES 



The Ladies' Aid Society of the Fort street M. E. Church, 
who are responsible for the publication of this book, desire 
to express their sincere thanks to the many ladies who have 
so kindly, cheerfully, and promptly responded in the import- 
ant matter of furnishing so great a variety of recipes. 

In presenting- a book comprised entirely of tested reci- 
pes, we trust and believe we are furnishing one which will 
be invaluable to any housekeeper, and especially prized in 

Los Angeles homes. 

LADIES' AID SOCIETY, 

Fort street M. E. Church, Los Angeles. 



LOS ANGELES, GAL.. 1 

JtlRBOR PRINTING AND BINDING HOUSE. 
1881. 



LIST OF CONTRIBUTORS, 



Mrs. Anna Offier, 
Mrs. E. F. S pence, 
Mrs. Col Geo. Smith, 
Mrs. C. G. Du Bois, 
Mr-. .1. G. Howard, 
Mrs. I. W. Hellman, 
Mrs. M. E. J., 
Mrs. S B. Caswcll, 
Miss Mary McLellan, 
Mrs. J. G. East man, 
Mrs. E S. Chase, 
Louise J. 
Mr>. M.(.i. Moore. 
Mrs. II. C Austin, 
Miss Kachel Krenier, 
Mrs. Tlieo. Wolhveber, 
Mr-. AdeliaHall, 
Mrs. L. C. Goodwin, 
Mrs. .Mary Back mac. 
Mrs. J. R. Toberman, 
M:- S. C. Foy, 
Mrs. E. C. Starin, 
Mrs. George Clark, 
Mrs. S. Speedy, 
Mrs. Dr. ROM, 
Mr-, il. K S O'Melveny, 
Mr-. L M. Thompson, 
Miss M. E. Iloyt, 
Mi>. 1. It. DuDKelberoer, 
Reliable, 

Mrs. Herbert, Ventura, 
Mrs. .1. Mines. 
Mrs. Harrows. 
Mr. E. S. U , 
Mrs. .). A Graves, 
Mis A. A. Doi Is worth, 
Mrs. I) r French, 
M tula me Chevalier, 
Madame Eugene Meyer, 
Mr. J. (V. Graves 
Mr-..). \V. Gillette. 
Mr-. John Smith, 
Mrs. T. S. Stan way, 
Mr- E Workman. 
Mi- Mary A. Lindley 
Mi's. I s. Mayo. 



Mrs. J. G. Downey, 

Mrs. Henderson, 

Mrs. J. E. Hollenbeck, 

Mrs. J. M. Stewart, 

Mrs. M. M. Templeton, 

Miss A. Tuthill, 

Mrs. S. H. La Fetra, 

Mrs. J. M. Campbell, 

Mrs. C. C. Lamb, 

Mrs. Dr. Hazeltine, 

Mrs. C. H. Bradley, 

Mrs. Gen. Stoneman, 

Mrs. Jennie Stafford, Santa Ana, 

Mrs. Milliken, 

Mrs. L. S E. Longstreet, 

Mrs R. X. C. Wilson, 

Mrs. F. D. Bovard, 

Mrs. Flanders, 

Mrs. A. N. Hamilton, 

San Gabriel, 

Mrs. L. Cheek. 

Mrs. S. Yarnell, 

Mrs. John Foy, San Bernardino, 

Miss Lillie Milliken, 

Mrs. \V. \V. Wuluey, 

Mrs. Wright, San Bernardino. 

Mrs. A. Uivbie, Compton, 

Mr. L. C. Goodwin, 

Mrs. \V. Childs. 

Mrs. M. M. B.n-ard, 

.Mrs. A. \V. Potts, 

Mrs. G. Wiley Wells, 

Mrs. VV. D. Gibbs, 

Mrs Chas. Maclay, 

Miss A. E Widney, 

Mrs .1. C. JSewton, 

Mrs. II. Me, Lei Ian, 

Miss Mnmie Van Dorea, 

Mrs. John Milner, 

Mi>s Lillie E. Bashford, 

Miss Bertha Lindley. 

Miss Emma Bradley 

Mr>. M. K \V. Bent, 

Mrs. S. C. Hubbell, 

Mrs R M. Widney. 



INTRODUCTION, 




" Of all appeals although 
I grant the power of pathos and of gold, 
Of beauty, flattery, threats, a shilling no 
Methods more sure at moments to take hold 
Of the best feelings of mankind, which grow 
More tender as we every day behold, 
Than that all-softening, over-powering knell, 
The tocsin of the soul the dinner bell." 

Byron. 



|HE present work is not what the Germans call a 
versuch, or what the English call an essay, yet it 
is an attempt. Not an attempt to meet a long 
jelt want, but to show how, in the best possible way, many 
felt wants may be supplied. 

The ladies of the Ladies' Aid Society, of the Fort Street 
Methodist Episcopal Church, Los Angeles, California, are 
the authors and publishers of this book. They have two 
objects in view in sending out the work. First That of 
supplying the house-keepers or the country with a large list 
of tried and valuable recipes. Second To r,aise funds to 
help pay off the indebtedness of the church. Both objects 
are reasonable and worthy. The recipes are mostly plain 
and simple, such as every house-keeper will find valuable 
every day, and are adapted to the poor and rich. Others 
are for more select dishes, and are more or less expensive. 
To every recipe is attached the name of the lady furnishing 
it. Each lady has practically tried those which she fur- 
nishes. The book is published for the use of families and is 



INTRODUCTORY. 



scrupulously temperate. What shall we eat? and how shall 
it be prepared for our use? are questions which may with 
propriety exercise the minds of the best scholars and writers 
in any nation. There are no doubt extremists, epicurean* 
whom the Savior justly rebuked. 

The prominence of all bodily appetites and pleasures 
and the natural ignorance of, and the not so easily under- 
stood character of spiritual pleasures, have led man in his 
natural condition to exalt, possibly, too much the former. 
The Esquimaux, according to Dr. Johnson, looks for a heaven 
where "oil is always fresh and provisions always warm." 

The Christian, alone, has left out this idea, and given 
the spiritual heaven. But among the ascetics we find the 
other extreme. And withal, in the happy medium, there is a 
true way and a right. Man has a body and it must be cared 
for as the home of the immortal soul. 

The great activities of the soul largely depend on a 
healthy and well cared for physical being, and may we not 
say a well-fed physical being. According to Bishop Wiley, 
a good beefsteak helps to make a good sermon. No doubt 
but that much of the strong, healthy thought of Old England 
and the early New England depended on the good, sensible 
supply of excellent food, which was found always in the 
larder, and on the table, in the days of yore, in those coun- 
tries. 

The real causes of happiness are inter prcecordia / 
yet human happiness, I dare say, is not wholly independent 
of good, wholesome living. Cowper says: 

"Now stir the fire and close the shutters fast, 
"Let fall the curtains and wheel the soa round, 
"And while the bubbling and loud-hissing urn 
"Throwi up a steamy column, and the cups 
"That cheer, but not Inebriate, wait on each, 
"So let us welcome peaceful evening In." 

The formula of Sydney Smith, given to one inquiring 
how to make home happy, was "always have a bright and 



INTROD UCTOR Y. 



cheerful fire, the kettle simmering on the hob, and a paper of 
iugar plums on the mantle." 

A good, wholesome meal is "a great keeper-off of depres- 
sion" and a great promoter of cheerfulness. T cannot see how 
any Christian can neglect such simple means of happiness and 
sunshine and then go groaning, through this world as a "wil- 
derness of woe," or how they can ask for grace to make them 
cheerful and happy, and all the while eat unwholesome food, 
or starve themselves, as a Christian duty. God never gives 
a man grace to make him cheerful with an empty stomach 
when he has supplied him with daily bread to satisfy his 
hunger. The Colony of the Fraternia is a fraud, than which 
there is none greater except it is the correspondent who 
lauds and magnifies the Colony. It may be well to state 
that the people of this Colony live wholly on raw fruits and 
vegetables. 

The advance made in producing and preparing articles 
of food, by the farmer and the merchant, vastly exceeds that 
made in the kitchen in the art and science of cooking 
Much of the cooking of to-day is but little in advance of 
that of a century ago. 

And may we not seriously enquire: is not cooking^ in 
a certain degree, a lost art? Did not ye house- wives of ye 
olden time know many ways of serving an excellent dinner, 
which are wholly unknown to the ladies of the present day? 
The authors of this book are doing the world a great service 
in helping on the work of restoration and advance in this 
most ancient and useful of all arts. 

M. M. BOVARD. 



GENERAL DIRECTION. In cooking, as in poetry, archi- 
tecture and the other fine arts, preserve the unities. A 
skillful cook may produce a composition, such as a mine* 



8 INTRODUCTORY. 

pie, which the puzzled eater will regard with mingled won- 
der and delight. But though the cook should not wholly 
neglect this composite art, for every day comfort cultivate 
simplicity and directness. Do not let your bread be a puz- 
zle, nor your coffee. If you are asked for a potato, do not 
cook it in such a manner that .the eater will think you did 
not rightly hear what *as asked for. Many eat raw toma- 
toes or baked potatoes, because that is the only way in 
which they can get the natural flavor. But a tomato may 
be cooked so that it will have as distinct and decided a 
tomato flavor as the raw tomato itself has. So, an apple 
may be cooked to taste as an apple, a peach to taste as a 
peach, a turnip as a turnip, and a potato to taste as a potato. 
Beware of messes. Do not let a stewed chicken remind the 
eater of boiled pork. Say to your chicken, your coffee, your 
beefsteak or your potato, as you prepare it for the table, 
"be yourself, be natural." 

E K. 



LOS ANGELES COOKERY. 



SOUP DEPARTMENT, 



CORN SOUP. 

MRS. COL. GEO. SMITH. 

Eight tender ears of corn cut or scraped; cook with 
enough water to boil; boil half an hour, and then add two 
quarts of new milk; let that boil, and put into it two table- 
spoons of butter, rubbed into three teaspoons of flour. 
Let it all boil once more, adding pepper and salt. Beat into 
the tureen three eggs, stirring briskly while the boiling soup 
is poured on. This soup should be stirred often while 
cooking. 

GREEN PEA SOUP. 



MRS. C. G. DU BOIS. 



Boil three pints of green peas in just enough water to 
boil them; then pour in three pints of milk, and when it 
boils stir in one-fourth pound of butter, in which a table- 
spoon of flour has been mixed; stir it until it boils; season 
with salt and pepper. 



AMBER SOUP. 



MRS. J. G. HOWARD. 



Take a shin of beef, and about a pound of the meat cut 
up small; put three or four slices of salt pork into a pan and 
fry them crisp; take out the pork, slice three or four small 



10 LOS ANGELES COOKERY. 

onions, put into the fat and brown carefully; take the onions 
out, put in the reserved meat and fry brown and crisp; put 
the pork, meat and onions with the rest of the meat and bone 
into the soup kettle; add as in beef soup a couple of carrots, 
a turnip, some celery and a few bay leaves; pack down, cover 
with water and heat gradually; boil slowly six hours; strain 
and set away. Next day skim and strain through a coarse 
cloth into the soup kettle; stir in the whites and broken 
hells of two eggs to clear it, and as the scum boils up take 
it off; season with salt and pepper and a little mace. A few 
peeled slices of lemon may be added. 



OYSTER SOUP. 



MRS. C. G. DU BOIS. 



To one quart of oysters one quart of water; boil up 
with liquor and skim; four eggs well beaten with one 
pint of milk; one large spoon of butter rubbed in flour; salt 
and pepper. 



TOMATO SOUP. 



MRS. S. B. CASWELL. 



One can of tomatoes (or one quart of ripe tomatoes), to 
one quart of milk; boil the tomatoes at least half an hour, 
then strain and let it cool; put it with the cold milk a spoon- 
ful first at a time; season with salt, pepper and butter. Put 
it on the stove and stir until it is thoroughly heated not 
boiled. 



GUMBO SOUP. 

MBS. ANNA OGIER. 

il a shin of beef an hour; pour off the water; let it 
>oil an hour longer, then put in salt to taste. This will 
make two and one-half gallons of gumbo; when you add to 



LOS ANGELES COOKERY. 11 

it a half gallon of sliced okra, the same of peeled tomatoes, 
four large onions, three pods of green peppers; let all boil 
together for five hours, slowly, so as not to scorch; then add 
a half- pint of rice, nicely boiled, and let it cook half an hour 
longer. This is the very best and most nutritious soup ever 
made, and a great Southern dish. 



GERMAN GUMBO SOUP. 



MRS. I. AV. HKLLMAN. 

Take a young chicken or the half of a full grown one, 
mix together flour, pepper and salt; roll the fowl in it and 
then drop it in hot lard and fry nice and brown. Cut okra 
up in rounds until there is over a quart of cut okra; when 
the chicken is nearly done add this to it, and fry abcut ten 
minutes, stirring all of the time; do not allow this to brown. 
Next pour on two quarts of boiling water, and drop in a 
slice of ham; boil this down to one and one-half quarts. If 
you desire, about ten minutes before taking it off the fire, 
add two dozen fresh oysters and their juice. There must be 
rice cooked to eat with Gumbo, and it must be perfectly 
done and dry. When serving the soup place a large spoon- 
ful of rice in each plate and pour the gumbo over it. 



BROWN FLOUR SOUP. 



MRS. M. E. J. 



Take common stock; brown a teacup of flour; add to 
the soup until sufficiently thickened. Stir in, just before 
the soup is served, a tablespoonful of cloves and allspice. 
Salt and pepper to taste. 



CHICKEN AND OYSTER SOUP. 



MRS. A'. HIGBIE, COMPTON. 

One full-grown chicken; just enough water to cover it; 
simmer it gently; when done, take the chicken out, strain 



12 LOS ANGELES COOKERY. 

the liquor; add one quart of sweet milk to one of broth, if 
not enough broth add sufficient boiling water; then one 
quart of oysters with their juice; a blade of mace; one table- 
spoon of butter; one of arrow-root; flour rubbed into the 
butter; one gill of hot cream; stew gently five minutes; use 
the chicken for salad. Cream should always be boiled be- 
fore being put into soup or gravy. 



BEEF SOUP. 



MISS MAKY MOLELLAN. 



Three pints of beef stock; half an onion and one small 
potato finely chopped. Boil one hour. Add one and one- 
half cups of stewed tomatoes; salt and pepper; boil half an 
hour and strain. Add two well-beaten eggs, mixed with a 
little cold soup (to prevent the eggs curdling), and serve. 



MILK SOUP. 



ANONYMOUS. 

Four large potatoes; two leeks; two ounces of butter; 
three tablespoonfuls of crushed tapioca; one pint of milk. 
Put the potatoes and leeks, cut in four, in a sauce pan, with 
two quarts of boiling water; two ounces of butter; a tea- 
spoonful of salt, and pepper to taste; boil one hour; rub 
through a colander, and return to the saucepan; add the 
milk; sprinkle in the tapioca, and let it boil fifteen minutes. 

TOMATO SOUP. 



MISS MARY MCLELLAN. 



One quart can of tomatoes; if not well dissolved, chop 
them fine and boil ten minutes; add one-fourth teaspoonful 
of soda and stir till it ceases to effervesce. Then add two 
Boston crackers, pounded fine; season with butter, salt and 
pepper; add one quart of milk and boil ten minutes. 



AD VERTISEMENTS. 



13 



CHAS. B. WOODHEAD. 



LESLIE F. GAY. 



mm & 



Wholesale mi Betifl Dealers in all iiais of Snea inl Criol 

CALIFORNIA FRUITS 

Nuts, Honey, Trees, Plants and Seeds. 

40 & 42 Spring Street, Los Angeles, Cal. 



PjtOENIX, 

George F. Coats, Manager. 



TUCSON, 

Parmelee & Serrot, Managers. 



MEYBERG BROS,, 



IMPORTEKS AND DEALERS IN 




lass and inware, 



GRANITE IRON WARE, 
Toys, Fancy Goods, Plated Ware, 

CTTTLEZa'S', IETC-, ETC. 

81 Main Street, and 1, 3 & 5, Temple Street, 
LOS ANGELES, CAL. 



14 



AD VERTISEMENTS. 



THE CASH HOUSE 






Nos. 30 and 32 Main Street, Baker Bloch, 
LOS ANGELES, CAL. 



GOOD GOODS, UNIFORMLY LOW PRICES- 
DRY GOODS, MEN'S GOODS, 

TRUNKS, TRAVELING BAGS^ETC. 

AGENT FOR BAZAAR PATTERNS. 

LEN J, THOMPSON & Co,, 

DEALERS IN 





WHOLESALE AND RETAIL. 



Teas 8 Cofifees a, Specialty 



36 Spring St., Los Angeles, Coil. 




LOS ANGELES COOKERY. 15 



FISH DEPARTMENT, 



SCALLOPED OYSTERS. 



MRS. J. G. EASTMAN. 

One quart of oysters; one cupful dry bread-crumbs; 
two spoonfuls butter; one-half cup of cream; pepper and 
salt to taste. Cover the bottom of a buttered baking-dish 
with crumbs; wet these with the cream; pepper and salt, 
and strew with small pieces of butter; then put in the 
oysters, with a little of their liquor; pepper them, strew 
pieces of butter over them, and cover with dry crumbs; put 
more butter on top. Set in the oven, and bake until the 
juice bubbles up to the top; then set the dish for a few 
moments on the upper grating of the oven to brown. Send 
to table in the baking-dish. 



SCALLOPED OYSTERS. 



MRS. B. S. CHASE. 

Do not drain the liquor from the oysters, but fish them 
out of it as you use them; in that way as much liquor as 
you require adheres to them; use stale bread, and do not 
crumble too fine, or it will be clammy; half a teaspoonful 
of cream, two great teaspoonfuls of butter, salt and pepper; 
oysters part with a great deal of moisture in cooking, and if 
the mixture is too wet it is not good; it should be rather 
dry when done. Cover the bottom of a well-buttered baking- 
dish with a layer of very dry bread crumbs; dust over a litte 
alt and pepper, and stick little bits of butter all over the 



16 LOS ANGELES COOKERY. 

crumbs; then, with a spoon, moisten it with the cream; next 
place a layer of oysters, alternating with bread crumbs, 
until the dish is filled, finishing with the butter and cream; 
invert a plate over it to keep in the flavor. Bake three- 
fourths of an hour, or until the juice bubbles up to the top; 
remove the plate, and brown on the upper shelf of the oven 
for two or three minutes only. 



FISH BALLS. 



MRS. HAZELTINE. 

Take the fish left from dinner; put in your chopping 
tray, being careful there are no bones in it; chop fine; pare 
or boil potatoes enough to have twice the quantity of pota- 
toes that you have of fish. When cooked, turn them into 
the tray with the fish; mash fine, and to a quantity that will 
make a dozen balls; add one egg, butter the size of an egg, 
salt and pepper; shape and fry in butter or lard. 



FISH CHOWDER. 



MRS. E. S. CHASE. 

Cut the fish into small pieces; put a layer of fish in 
the bottom of the kettle, in which sprinkle salt and pepper; 
next a layer of sliced potato, then another layer of fish 
(sprinkle well with pepper and salt), until you have the de- 
sired quantity; put in cold water enough to cover; let cook 
until the potato is done (15 to 20 minutes); add one cup of 
milk, a piece of butter half the size of an egg, flour enough 
to thicken. Serve in soup dishes. 



BAKED WHITE FISH. 



MRS. J. G. EASTMAN. 




Clean the fish, but do not cut off the head and tail; 
stuff it with a dressing made of half a pound of bread- 






LOS ANGELES COOKERY. 17 

crumbs, soaked in water till soft, and then pressed free from 
the water; mix with the crumbs two tablespoonfuls of 
minced onion, some butter, chopped parsley, pepper and 
salt, and a beaten egg. When the fish is stuffed, wrap a 
piece of cord around it to keep the dressing in. Put slices 
of salt pork on the top of the fish, sprinkle it with pepper 
and salt, put some hot water in the pan, and bake in a hot 
oven, basting frequently. When done, it should be a fine 
brown. If the fish is large, it will take an hour to bake it. 
When done, take it up and boil up the gravy with a table- 
spoonful of catsup, a tablespoonful of flour, wet vrith cold 
water and the juice of a lemon; pour this sauce over the 
fish, and serve. Any fish may be baked in this way. 



BAKED FISH. 



LOUISEJ. 

Take the upper half of the fish, clean and wipe it very 
dry; make a dressing of bread-crumbs and chopped fat pork; 
season with salt, pepper, thyme and marjoram; fill the belly 
of the fish; secure it well, then lay it on a pan, with slices 
of pork over it, and a little water, and bake one or one 
and a half hours, according to the size of the fish. 
Drawn butter for baked or boiled fish; put into one pint of 
boiling water one-half pound butter, and one teaspoonful of 
corn-starch, mixed with a little water; boil ten minutes. 
Serve in a gravy tureen, with either chopped parsley or two 
hard-boiled eggs, chopped fine. 



CODFISH BALLS. 



MBS. J. G. EASTMAN. 



Cut the codfish in pieces, taking out the bones and skin; 
then shred it and put it on the stove in some cold water. 
As soon as it begins to boil change the water. Repeat this 
process until the fish is tender and free from salt. Do not 
let it boil or it will be tough. When it is done mix it with 



18 LOS ANGELES COOKERY. 

twice the quantity of mashed potatoes. Form them into 
cakes, adding to the mixture a little butter and a beaten 
egg; flour the cakes and fry them a light brown in boiling 
lard. 

A GOOD WAY TO COOK FISH. 



MRS. M. 6. MOORE. 

If in the brine, soak well, then lay them in a dripping 
pan and cover well with good, thick, sweet cream. You can 
add pepper to the cream, if you wish, also a small piece of 
butter. Now place the dripping pan in the oven and cook 
till thoroughly done. If the fish are fresh, salt before cook- 
ing. 



CLAM FRITTERS. 



MRS. J. G. EASTMAN. 



Stew the clams until done; then take them off the stove; 
remove the hard edge; chop them into mincemeat and pour 
them into a batter made of one cup of milk, two cups flour, 
four eggs, a little salt and a teaspoonful yeast powder. 
Mix the clams thoroughly into this batter and fry in hot lard. 



FRIED FISH OF ANY KIND. 

MRS. H. C. AUSTIN. 

Clean, wash and dry the fish; lay them in a large flat 
dish; salt and dredge with floar. If the fish are large and 
thick, slice them; have ready a frying pan of hot lard or 
butter; put them in and fry to a good brown. 



POTTED TROUT. 






MRS. M. G. MOORE. 

Take one dozen trout; dress and wipe with a dry cloth; 
strew a little salt in and over them, and let them lie ' 



LOS ANGELES COOKERY. 19 

night; then wipe them again, with a dry cloth and season 
with one ounce of white pepper, one-fourth ounce of cay- 
enne, one-half ounce pounded cloves and a pinch of mace. 
Clarify two pounds of butter; then put the fish, with their 
backs down, in a pot lined with paper; pour the butter over 
them, and bake for four hours in a slow oven. 



FRIED TROUT. 



MKS. J. G. EASTMAN. 



Clean, wash and dry the fish; salt and pepper them; 
roll lightly in flour or corn meal, and fry quickly in boiling 
lard. Take them up as soon as done and lay upon a hot, 
folded napkin to absorb the grease; then place them side by 
side in a heated dish and send to the table. 



FISH CHOWDER. 



MRS. H. C. AUSTIN. 

Take a pound of salt pork, cut into strips and soak for 
five minutes; cover the bottom of the pot with a layer of 
this; cut four pounds of cod or sea-bass into pieces two 
inches square, and lay enough of this over the pork to cover 
it; then chopped onions, (these may be omitted if desired); 
parsley, summer savory, and pepper, also crackers. Repeat 
this layeiing until your fish and pork are used. Cover with 
cold water and boil gently for an hour. Then take out the 
thick part with a skimmer, and after thickening the other 
with a little flour and butter, pour it over that you have 
skimmed out. 



FISH CHOWDER. 



MBS. J. G. EASTMAN. 



Take a pound of salt pork; cut it into strips and fry. 
Corer the bottom of a pot with a layer of this; cut four 



20 LOS ANGELES COOKERY. 

pounds of cod, or any other large fish, into small pieces and 
put a layer of this on the pork; then a layer of onion, sliced 
thin, with salt and pepper; next a layer of crackers, mois- 
tened with hot water; then the pork again, the fish, onion, 
seasoning and cracker. The top layer must be buttered 
cracker. Cover the whole with cold water. Stew gently 
for an hour, keeping it covered with water. When it is 
done thicken with a tablespoonful of flour and the same 
quantity of butter. 



BAKED FISH. 



LOUISEJ. 

Clean and stuff with dressing made of slices of bread 
well buttered; a small onion chopped fine; salt and pepper, 
and soften with hot water; then sew it up; lay it on skewers 
in the baking pan, with a cupful of water; baste it often 
with butter and water, and bake one hour until tender and 
brown. Take it up and put on hot dish, and take out 
threads, and garnish with sliced lemon and parsley; thicken 
gravy with a little flour and butter and lemon juice, and 
serve in a sauce boat. 

Louisej is thoroughly reliable. EDS. 



CLAM CHOWDER. 



MRS. B. M. WIDNKY. 

Take six tablespoonfuls of pickled pork cut into dice; 
two medium-sized onions and one desertspoon of butter, and 
fry thoroughly; then add two tablespoons of flour; bronw well 
and place on the back of the stove. Put one quart of clams 
over the fire in their own liquor; when they have boiled 
three minutes, strain them and return the liquor to the fire; 
add to the liquor the fried pork and onions; one quart of 
milk; one pint of cream; one quart of potatoes, cut in dice, 
and salt to taste. When about to send to table, add the 




LOS AXGELES COOKERY. 21 

clams chopped fine, one and one half pints of toasted bread, 
cut in dice, and a little thyme. 



TO COOK CODFISH. 



MRS. C. G. DUBOIS. 

Shred about two-thirds of a quart of codfish; wash it 
with fresh cool water, and let it soak in cold water until 
quite fresh; drain off the water and put it in a saucepan 
with a pint of sweet cream and one-half pint of sweet milk; 
let it come to a boil; beat together one egg and tablespoon- 
ful of flour, and two tablespoonfuls of milk; put into sauce- 
pan and stir continually till dote; add butter, the size of a 
butternut; serve on buttered toast. 



BAKED SHAD. 



MRS. M. K. J. 

Clean and stuff with force meat; lay at length in the 
pan; pour in one pint of water and a gill of mushroom cat- 
sup; add pepper, a little ^vinegar, salt, six cloves and two 
cloves of garlic; baste well while baking; when done remove 
to the platter, and stir the gravy till sufficiently reduced; 
thicken with butter and browned flour, and pour over the 
fish. 



SAUCE HOLLANDAISE. 



MISS RACHEL KREMER. 

To be used with boiled fish. Take a large piece of un- 
salted butter, put it in a ban marie (a sort of double sauce- 
pan, used generally for boiling milk); when melted, pour it 
on the yolks of two or three uncooked eggs, stirring slowly 
all the time; add a little of the water the fish has been boiled 
in, a little salt, and some lemon juice. Sauce: The yolks of 
two hard-boiled eggs, with a teaspoonful of English mustard, 



LOS ANGELES COOKER Y. 



a teaspoonful of anchovy butter, the green of an onion, well 
mashed, or chives, if you can get them, oil and vinegar. 
Mix these ingredients as in mayonaise. 



BOILED MACKEREL. 



MRS. M. E. J. 



When the fish has been cooked until tender in boiling 
water, remove the back-bone and sprinkle the inner surface 
with chopped parsley; brown butter the size of an egg; add 
a dash of vinegar; mix well arid pour over the opened fish; 
clap together and serve. 



HERRING. 



MRS. THEO. WOLLAVEBISEH. 

Take the herring, and clean very nicely; soak in milk 
over night. When ready for use put them on a platter, 
cover with onions, cut very fine; take the milt, a spoonful 
of vinegar, one of sweet oil; keep adding oil and vinegar 
until the milt is dissolved, then pour through a wire sieve 
over the fish. 



TO STEW FISH WITH EGGS AND LEMONS. 

MISS RACHEL KREMER. 

For this stew, some firm white fish is the best. After 
the fish is cleaned, slice about an inch and a half in thickness; 
season with salt, pepper and ginger, then set it aside. Soak 
about half a loaf of bread in water; when well soaked, squeeze 
dry, then take some stale bread and grate it; mix this with 
the soaked bread; chop a small slice of the fish very fine, 
also parsley and two eggs, and add to the bread; season with 
ginger, pepper and salt to taste; make small balls of this 
mixture, which ate to be cooked with ihe fish. Now take 



LOS ANGELES COOKERY. 23 

two teaspoons of olive oil, in a stew-pan, with some chopped 
up onion, fry to a light brown, and add a cup of water and 
a half cup of vinegar. Then put fish in kettle, next balls, 
taking care not to allow them to break; if there is not suf- 
ficient water and vinegar to cover the fish well, add more, 
always having half as much vinegar as water; allow it to 
cook slowly until quite done. While it is cooking, squeeze 
two large lemons, being careful that the seeds do not mix 
with the juice. Separate the whites f^om the yolks of two 
or three eggs, and pour the lemon juice slowly into the 
yolks. When the fish is thoroughly cooked, pour the hot 
juice very slowly and carefully into the eggs and lemon, 
taking great care that it does not curdle. (You need not 
make use of all the hot juice, add as much as you wish, for 
this is only a sauce.) Pour sauce over fish again, and set on 
back of stove until it thickens, not allowing it to come to 
a boil. Dish slowly and carefully, so that every piece, also 
the balls, come out whole. Garnish the dish with parsley. 
This preparation is to be eaten cold. 



CRAB CREOLE. 



MRS. M. E. J. 

Take three large crabs or lobsters; pick fine, after they 
have been boiled; place in a deep baking dish; alternate 
layers of crab seasoned with made mustard, cayenne, salt, 
butter and chopped parsley, and layers of bread crumbs till 
the dish is filled; then pour milk over it till it will absorb 
no more; let the top layer be bread crumbs with little dabs 
of butter strewn over; bake until brown: 



A I) VERTISEMENTS. 



G-RANG-E_ STORE. 

From and after October first we shall sell 
goods for CASH and at CASH PRICES. The 
public is hereby notified that the best place 
in the city to buy GROCERIES & PROVISIONS 
is at the Grange Store, 

1G3 ^vdz^-iisr ST^ZEZEI?, 

SEYMOUR & CO., Proprietors. 

W. E. COOLEY, 



DEALER IN 




27 Spring St., Los Angeles, Cal. 

(Opposite the Court House.) 

Mattresses of all kinds made and renovated. Furniture 
repaired and upholstered. The highest CASH PRICE 
paid for second-hand furniture. 



122 Main Street, Los Angeles, Gal. 

VICKERY" & HINDS, 

WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALERS IN 



Sj 

All kinds of Sausages, Corned Beef, etc., always on ban?. 

* T . It. Goods Delivered to all Part* of the City. 



ADVERTISEMENTS. 



- 0. 



DEALER IX 



Artesian Well Pipe, Farming Machinery, Etc., 
No, 33 Spring Street, Los Angeles, Cal. 



#ijs M*L6MJLL6Ml 

59 MAIN ST., LOS ANGELES, CAL. 

THEO. WOLLWEBER, 



DEALER IN - 



M. W. GUILDS, 



DEALER IN 



, 

v 

PLUM BE K AND GAS FITTEK. 

21 Los Angeles Street, Los Angeles, Cal. 



!< 



OO-, 



Temple Block, Main and Spring Streets, /.os Angeles, Cal. 



Portraits in Oil, Water Colois, Ink and Crayons, a Specialty. 



26 LOS ANGELES COOKERY. 



MEAT DEPARTMENT, 



BROILING. 



MKS. ADELIA HALL. 

This is not only the most rapid manner of cooking 
meat, but is justly a favored one. It has nearly the same 
effect upon meat as roasting; the albumen of the outer por- 
tions is hardened, and, forming a skin, retains the juices. 
It should be turned rapidly in order to produce an equal 
effect, but the meat should not be punctured with a fork. 
Salt meat should be put into cold water, and boil slowly. 
A red pepper dropped in the water will prevent the rising 
of an unpleasant odor. Fresh meat, unless for soup, should 
be put into boiling water and allowed to cook very gently; 
no salt to be added until nearly done. In roasting, put into 
a hot oven, and baste frequently. 



BROILED STEAK. 

MRS. L. C. GOODWIN. 

Have the gridiron smoking hot; place the platter de- 
signed for the steak in the oven 'to heat; put the steak on 
the hot iron; for a medium sized steak it will not be neces- 
sary to turn more than once; when done remove to the 
platter, and add butter, pepper and salt; put in the oven for 
a few moments, and send hot to the table. 



: o : 

POTTED BEEF. 



MRS. MARY BACK MAX. 




Beef flar.k 10 pounds; take off the outside skin, salt 
and pepper thoroughly, then roll and tie; put in a flat-pot, 






LOS ANGELES COOKERY. a 27 

with three pints of water, add tablespoonful each of whole 
cloves and of allspice; boil two hours; take off cover and 
roast down; keep turning; roast to a light brown. 



SPANISH HASH. 

MRS. J. R. TOBERMAN. 

Chopped meat, one pint; chopped onions, one cup; 
three tomatoes, chopped fine. Roast five large red chillies in a 
hot oven; when a light brown throw them into a little hot 
water; rub thoroughly till the pulp separates from the skins; 
pass the pulp through a cullender. Put a little lard in a 
frying pan; add the onions and tomatoes and fry a light 
brown; add the chopped meat and red pepper sauce, and a 
little salt; stew fifteen minutes. 



TO COKN BEEF. 

MRS. S. C. FOY. 

Take twelve or fifteen pounds of beef, cut from the 
round; cut it into four pieces; put it into a jar or cask; cover 
it with brine made as follows: To one gallon boiling water 
dissolve rock salt until, when cold, a fresh egg will float; 
one teaspoonful of saltpetre will give the meat a red color; 
turn a plate over the meat, and weight it down with a stone. 
In about four days pour off the brine, boil it, skim it, cool 
it, and pour it over the meat again. Six days will corn 
thoroughly. 



STUFFED CHILLIES. 



MRS. J. R. TOBERMAN. 



Take twelve large green bell chillies; roast them on 
bright coals, and put them in hot water to remove the skins; 
cut off the stem ends, remove the seed and veins, and fill 
with the following dressing: Take cold beef, pork or veal, 



28 LOS ANGELES COOKER Y. 

k 

chopped fine; add chopped onions, with bread crumbs, and 
season with butter, salt and pepper to taste; bake in a quick 
oven fifteen minutes; serve hot with roast beef, or as a side 
dish. 



HAM TOAST. 



MK-. S. C. HUBBELL. 



One quarter of a pound of lean ham chopped fine; beat 
well the yolks of three eggs; one tablespoonful of melted 
butter; two tablespoons of cream, or good milk; stir over 
the fire till it thickens, and spread on hot toast. 



MOCK DUCK. 



MRS. E. C. STARIN. 



Take a flank steak; make a dressing the same as for 
ducks; spread it on the steak; then roll up and tie tight 
with a string to keep it in shape; lay in a platter with a lit- 
tle water; sprinkle with pepper and salt, and bake. 



HASH CAKES. 



MKs. MARY BACKMA.V. 



Two pounds of cold roast or corned beef, six large 
potatoes, one raw onion; chop fine; salt and pepper to taste; 
make in balls; roll into flour, then fry in hot lard. 



SPICED BEEF. 



MRS. GEORGE CLARK. 



Procure from eight to ten pounds of ribs of beef those 
with considerable fat on are best; remove the bone, rub the 
meat well with one ounce of salt-petre, pounded fine! Three 



LOS ANGELES COOKERY. 29 

hours after tins has been applied, rub on a half-pound of 
moist sugar; let the meat lie in this for two days. Take 
one ounce of ground pepper, one ounce of pounded mace, 
a few cloves, likewise well pounded, and a teaspoonful of 
cayenne pepper; mix all together thoroughly, and rub well 
into the beef, particularly into the holes, adding occasionally 
a little salt. Roll up the meat as a round, and bind it with 
a strong fillet. Chop some shredded suet fine, and cover the 
beef with it. Put a cupful of water in the baking-pan, and 
bake in a moderately heated oven from five to six hours. 



MEAT BALLS. 



MRS. .1. K. TOBBBMAK. 

Chop one teacuptul of ham; mix with a pint of mashed 
potatoes, and one or two well-beaten eggs; a little salt and 
pepper, and a wee bit of mustard, sage, or sweet marjoram; 
roll in balls and fry in hot lard. 

SLICED MUTTON WITH MUSHROOMS. 



MRS. M. E. J. 

Cut meat thin, no fat or skin; flour both sides; 
take six large mushrooms, cut up in four pieces, put 
in to stew with a piece of butter; add a little stock, pepper 
and salt. When done, put in the meat; heat slowly; stir 
frequently; don't boil it. As soon as done, and the gravy 
thickens, serve on toast, or fried bread around the dish. 



BEEF A' LA MODE. 



MRS. S. SPEEDY. 



A round of beef, cut out the bone, and fill the place 
with a rich stuffing of bread-crumbs, onions, a lump of butter 
the size of an egg, one egg. Have ready one teaspoonful 
of salt, pepper, cloves and mace, mix all together; make in- 



30 LOS ANGELES COOKERY. 

cisions in the beef with a knife, and put in strips af fat 
pork rolled in the spices; sprinkle the remainder of the 
spices over the beef, then cover the whole with fat pork to 
prevent its burning. Tie the beef around to keep it in 
place; place in an oven, with three quarts of water; bake 
five hours; baste it often with lard and butter mixed in flour. 
When done, skim off the fat and thicken the gravy; season 
with walnut, catsup and mace. 



HAM SANDWICHES. 



MRS. DR. ROSS. 

Five pounds of cold boiled ham and two fresh beef- 
tongues. Chop together, very fine; then add one teaspoon- 
ful dry mustard, one tablespoonful white sugar, one tea- 
spoonful pepper. Moisten the meat by stirring into it two 
well-beaten eggs. Spread between thin slices of buttered 
bread. This quantity will make a hundred sandwiches. 



SAUSAGE STEW. 



MRS. II. K. 8. O MELVENY. 



Make a thick layer of slices of peeled potatoes, sprinkle 
on a little salt, and then cut up sausages over the potatoes. 
Continue alternate layers of potatoes and sausages the top 
layer being potatoes pour in a little water, and stew. 



STEAK WITH ONIONS. 



MRS. ANNA OGIER. 



Take a porterhouse steak; have the frying pan very hot 
and grease with hot lard, so the steak will crisp quickly. 
After it has crisped on both sides, remove to dish and keep 
on stove. Have two large onions chopped and scalded with 
boiling water; then put them into the pan from which the 



LOS ANGELES COOKERY. 31 

steak has been removed; salt and pepper and fry to a light 
brown; then add a spoon of butter, dredge with flour; add 
as much milk or cream as will make a nice gravy. Let it 
come to a boil and pour over the steak. 



VEAL LOAF. 



MRS. L. M. THOMPSON. 



Take three pounds of raw veal and one pound of salt 
pork, ten large crackers, one teaspoonful of pepper, and one 
of sage; chop well together, season with salt, and add three 
eggs and a half-teacup of cream. Make into a loaf, and 
bake three hours; baste often witli butter and water. 



PATE DE VEAU. 

M. E. HOYT. 

Three and one-half pounds of leg of veal, fat and lean; 
six small crackers; one slice of fat pork; two eggs; one 
tablespoonful of black pepper; one nutmeg. Chop all the 
ingredients very fine and mix them; beat the eggs and add 
them to the mixture, together with a piece of butter the size 
of an egg, and a tablespoonful of salt; roll in a ball and 
bake in a pan or dish for an hour and a half. 



SPICED BEEF. 



MRS. I. R. DUNKELBERGER. 

Take the brisket; cut it into pieces the size you wish to 
cook; rub them with fine salt, a little sugar, cloves, allspice, 
pepper and saltpetre; roll the beef up tight and tie it; to thirty 
pounds of beef allow a cup of salt, a cup of spice (whole), a 
piece of saltpetre the size of a nutmeg, broken fine; when 
prepared pack into a keg; add one quart of white wine vin- 
egar, and enough brine to cover the beef. In one week it 



32 LOS ANGELES COOKERY. 

will be fit for use and will keep six months. A piece weigh- 
ing eight pounds must he boiled six hours; press eight hours; 
serve "old with any sauce preferred. Worcestershire is usu- 
ally given the preference. 



BEEF A LA MODE. 



Mi;s. ii. i*. s. O'MELVEXV. 

Take a round of beef; make incisions all through it; 
then roll strips of raw salt pork, in a seasoning made of 
thyme, cloves, pepper and salt, half a teaspoonful of each, 
and draw them through the holes made in the beef; put in 
a pot with some small onions and a quarter of pound of but- 
ter; pour on enough hot water to cover it and cook slowly 
three or four hours. 



POTTED MEAT. 

MKS. M. G. MOORE. 

Cut the meat from the bone; chop fine and season 
highly with pepper and salt, cloves and cinnamon; moisten 
with vinegar, Worcester sauce or butter melted, according 
to the kind of meat used or to suit your taste. Pack it tight 
in a stone jar and cover the top with about one-forth inch of 
melted butter. It will keep for months and always affords an 
excellent dish for tea. 



TO MAKE BRAWN ENGLISH. 



ANONYMOUS. 



Two hours and a half or three hours. A pig's head of 
six or seven pounds, one and three-quarter pounds of lean 
beef, four or five cloves, pepper, salt and cayenne pepper. 
Clean the pig's head thoroughly, put into a stew-pan with 
about a pound and three quarters of lean beef, cover with 
cold water, and boil until the bones can be removed, skim- 



LOS ANGELES COOKERY. 33 

ming frequently. Put the meat into a hot pan before the 
fire, and mince it as fine as possible, and as quickly; season 
well with the spices, pepper, salt and cayenne; stir briskly 
together, and press in a brawn-tin or cake mould with a very 
heavy weight, until quite cold and thoroughly set. When 
required for use, dip the mould into boiling water, and turn 
the brawn out on a dish. 



LIVER CHEESE. 



MIJS. HERBERT, VENTURA. 

Boil a beer's liver, heart and tongue; remove all the 
hard sinewy parts, and chop the remainder fine; add to this, 
half pound of salt pork, also chopped fine; season it all well, 
put into a pan and press it hard. After standing a few hours 
it will come out in a solid cake, and is very nice to slice for 
breakfast or lunch. 



ROAST BEEF GERMAN. 



MRS. THEO. WOLLWEBER. 

If your roast is secured the night before using, roll it in 
a cloth wet with vinegar; if not, take a piece of the round, 
not too large, a piece of butter, one or two onions sliced, 
two carrots, two or three tomatoes, salt and pepper. Put in 
a kettle, cover closely and steam until done and brown, 
adding vinegar or water to taste, and basting frequently. 
When almost finished thicken with bread crumbs. Strain 
the sauce before sending to table. 



WARMED-OVER MEATS. 



MRS. M. G. MOORE. 



A good way to use cold bits of fish Pick the fish from 
the bones into small pieces; cut two or three small potatoes 
up pretty fine; melt some butter in the spider; add a little 



34 LOS ANGELES COOKERY. 

cream, then put fish and potatoes into this, and pepper and 
salt. Stir frequently till heated through, not browned; just 
before lifting to the dish add one or two well-beaten eggs. 
Serve hot. Nice for breakfast. 



ANOTHER. 



MRS. M. G. MOORE. 

Cut slices of cold roasted meat and mince it very fine; 
brown some flour in butter, and moisten with stock or water; 
add salt and pepper and let it simmer ten minutes; add 
some more butter and some gherkins cut in slices; then add 
the minced meat and let simmer slowly, not boil. Use pars- 
ley and capers with mutton instead of gherkins. 



VEAL POT-PIE. 



MRS. J. HINES. 



Cut the meat into small pieces; place in a pot and cook 
with little water; when cooked, thicken the gravy and sea- 
son to taste. Make a light crust and cut up in square 
pieces; drop into the kettle and cover up tight. 



TO BAKE A HAM. 



MRS. S. SPEEDY. 



Take a nice plump ham, scrape and wash nicely. Have 
ready a dough made 'of flour and water; roll out about an 
inch thick, and cover your ham completely with this, wetting 
the edges to prevent exposing the ham. Bake three hours. 



BREAKFAST FRITTERS. 



MRS. DR. ROSS. 



Chop very fine any kind of cold meat though veal or 
ham is the nicer. For one cup of minced meat take one 



LOS ANGELES COOKERY. 35 

cup of sweet milk, one egg, tablespoonful bread-crumbs, 
and one of flour; add a little pepper and salt, and fry to a ' 
light brown, as you would small butter-cakes. 



A NICE WAY OF COOKING COLD MEATS. 



MRS. BARROWS. 



Chop the meat fine, season with salt, pepper and a little 
onion, or else tomato catsup; fill a bread-pan two-thirds full, 
cover it over with mashed potato, which has been salted, and 
has milk in it; lay bits of butter over the top, and set it 
into the oven for fifteen or twenty minutes. 



OMELET OF VEAL. 



MRS. C. G. DU BOIS. 



Take two pounds of veal, chopped fine, eight grated 
crackers, one spoon sage, same of pepper and salt, four eggs, 
one teacup of sweet milk, one-half butter; mix all well 
together, and bake one and a half hours. 



SCRAPPLES. 



MRS. HERBERT, VENTURA. 



Take a pig's head, boil it until the meat cleaves from 
the bone; cut it fine, mix it in the liquor it was boiled in, 
with Indian meal, pepper, salt and herbs to suit the taste. 
Boil until it is about the consistency of mush. Let it cook, 
cut in slices, fry in lard. It will keep two or three weeks. 



HUNTER'S RQAST. 



MRS. R. M. WIDNEY. 



Ingredients One leg mutton; one pound smoked ba- 
con. Preparation Cut the bacon in slices about two inches 



30 LOS ANGELES COOKERY. 

long and three-fourths inch; make insertions or pockets near 
the surface of the mutton and insert the bacon. Roast in 
usual manner. The slips of bacon should be so inserted that 
the fat from the bacon, while roasting will" drain down 
through the mutton to flavor it. 



SPICED VEAL. 



MRS. C. G. DU BOIS. 

Take some of the thick loin of veal; cut it into small 
pieces, and pour over it as much hot spiced vinegar as will 
cool it. To one-half pint of vinegar put a teaspoonful of 
allspice, a very little mace, salt and cayenne pepper. 



HAMBERGER STEAK. 



MKS. J. A. GRAVES. 



Equal parts of beef, veal and pork, chopped fine; sea- 
son with pepper, salt, thyme and nutmeg, grated lemon peel 
and the juice of one lemon, eggs and bread crumbs; shape 
into oblong form and cover thickly with flour; bake and 
baste often. 



TO CURE 1,000 HAMS. 



MR. E. 8. B. 



Sixty pounds of salt; three gallons of molasses; two 
and one-half pounds of potash; one-quarter pound of salt- 
petre. Pack and fill up with well or spring water; lie in 
brine five weeks and then they a r e ready to smoke. 



BEEF-STEAK PIE. 



MKS. BARROWS. 

Take cold roast beef, cut it into thin slices, about an 
inch long; take raw potatoes, peel them, and cut them in 



LOS ANGELES COOKERY. 37 

thin slices. Have ready a deep dish; lay some of the 
potatoes on the bottom, then a layer of beef, and so on until 
the dish is filled; season it as you would chicken pie; fill it 
with boiling water, cover with a crust, and bake it. 



BOILED TONGUE. 



MRS. AMELIA HALL. 

In choosing a tongue ascertain how long it has been 
dried or pickled, and select one with a smooth skin, \vhich 
denotes its being young and tender; if a dried one, and 
rather hard, soak it at least for twelve hours before 
cooking it; if, however, it is fresh from the pickle, two or 
three hours will be sufficient for it to remain in soak; put 
the tongue in a stew-pan, with plenty of cold water and a 
bunch of savory herbs; let it gradually come to a boil,' skim 
well and simmer gently until tender; peel off the skin, 
garnish with tufts of celery or parsley sprouts, and serve. 
Boiled tongue is frequently sent to table with boiled poultry 
instead of ham, and is, by many, preferred; if served cold, 
peel it; fasten it down to a piece of board by sticking a 
fork through the root and another through the top, to 
straighten it; garnish with parsley. A large tongue needs 
to be cooked between four and five hours, a small one, be- 
tween two and three hours. 



BRAINS. 



MRS. M. E. J. 

Scald, clean and stew in one-quarter pound of butter, 
a tablespoonful of fine parsley, juice of a lemon, and salt 
and pepper. 

t * o * 

BRAINS BAKED. 



MRS. M. E. J. 



Clean and stew until done; mix with one egg; season 
as before, except parsley; add a tablespoonful of butter; 



38 LOS ANGELES COOKERY. 

>- _ 

mix with fine bread crumbs, and heap in a tin plate. Strew 
the tup with crumbs and pieces of butter; brown in the oven. 



TONGUE CHEESE. 



MKS. A. A. DODSWORTH. 



One beef's tongue, two calves' livers, three pounds salt 
pork; boil until well done; mince very fine; season to taste 
(with spice, if desired); press in a pan or mold until cold, 
then it is ready to slice and serve. Makes a delicious cold 
dish for lunch. 



BROILED TRIPE. 



ANONYMOUS. 



Prepare tripe as for frying; lay it on a broiling iron, 
over a clear fire; let it broil gently; when one side is done 
turn the other side; take it up on a hot dish, butter it; 
garnish with lemon or parsley. 



FRIED TRIPE. 



MKS. DR. FRENCH. 



Having boiled the tripe until perfectly tender all through, 
cut into pieces three or four inches square; make a batter 
of four eggs, four tablespoons flour, and a pint of milk; 
season with nutmeg; dip each piece of tripe twice into the 
batter, then fry it in hot butter or lard. 



BRAINS. 



MKS. ANNA OGIER. 

Parboil them, let them cool, and skin them; careful not 
to break; cut in slices about an inch wide; dredge with con 



LOS ANGELES COOKERY. 39 

meal, pepper and salt; fry in hot lard; garnish with double- 
leaf parsley. 



TO FRY TRIPE. 



ANONYMOUS. 



Take prepared tripe, wash and wipe dry; cut it four 
inches square; dip first in egg, then flour; let it fry gently 
to a delicate brown, in butter, if liked; add to the gravy a 
wine glass of vinegar and water; boil up, and pour over the 
dish with the tripe. 



HEAD-CHEESE. 



MRS. ANNA OGIER. 



Boil pig's feet till perfectly tender, so that the bones 
may be easily removed; season with pepper, salt stirred in; 
wet a mould in cold water, pour in the cheese, press down; 
when well formed, turn out, and keep in cornmeal gruel and 
vinegar. 




40 LOS ANGELES COOKERY. 



FRENCH DEPARTMENT- 



SOUP. 



MADAME OHBVALLJBR. 

Take four pounds of meat and put in a soup pot filled 
with water; add a handful of salt. When the soup boils 
skim it; when no more scum rises, add two carrots, two 
turnips, celery, parsley, cloves, laurel leaf, some thyme and 
one onion, cut in four parts. Fill again the pot with water; 
keep a slow fire; let boil slowly, and leave on the fire for 
four hours. 



POTATO SOUP. 



MADAME CHEVALLIER. 






Take three potatoes, one onion and some parsley; 
chopped, not too fine; put in a pot with piece of butter, 
brown well; add water and meat gravy, if you have any, 
and one spoonful of rice. Cook for two hours; salt and 
pepper to taste. 



BLANQUETTE DE VEAU. 



MADAME CHEVALLIER. 



Take the breast of veal or lamb and cut in small pieces, 
melt a piece of butter the size of an egg; mix with it 
a large spoonful of flour; do not let brown. Add to this 
some boiling water, parsley, laurel and thyme, and place in a 



LOS ANGELES COOKERY. 41 

vessel with the veal ; cook for two hours over a slow fire. 
Before serving, take the yolk of an egg and mix with it, 
stirring well. 



CABBAGE SOUP. 



MADAME CHEVALLIER. 



Take one pound of pork (salt) and half of a cabbage- 
head; put the pork in a pot of cold water, let it boil for an 
hour; after which, throw the water off, replacing with hot 
water; when it boils, add the cabbage, carrot, turnip, and a 
piece of garlic, mashed with a knife, and pepper no salt ; 
let it boil for two hours, then take the cabbage out, put in a 
dish with the carrots and turnips around, the pork over it, 
and serve as a vegetable. Take the soup and pour into a 
dish over small pieces of bread. 



MASHED PEA SOUP. 



MADAME CHEVALLIER. 

Soak for twenty- four hours one pound of pease, then put 
on the fire in cold water, with one onion, one clove and one 
laurel leaf, salt and pepper; boil for two hours; then strain 
and mash the pease; put them in the same water, with a 
piece of butter; cook half an hour. Take bread, cut in 
small pieces, and fry in butter to a light brown ; put it in the 
soup dish, and when ready to serve, pour over the soup. 



ONION SOUP. 



MADAME CHEVALLIER. 



Put in a pot some chopped onions and a piece of but- 
ter; when well browned, take a spoonful of flour and mix 
in. Pour into the pot, while stirring, one quart 
of milk; boil fifteen minutes; salt and pepper. Take the 



42 LOS ANGELES COOKERY. 

yolk of an egg, beat it with a little of the soup, and mix 
all together, stirring constantly. Pour the soup over slices of 
bread, cut very thin. 



PUMPKIN SOUP. 



M A J ) A M K CH E VALLI E U . 

Take two slices of pumpkin, wash, peel, and cut in 
small pieces; put in pot of water to boil; when cooked, 
empty out the water and strain the pumpkin; put in a pot, 
add water, one spoonful of rice or vermicelli, and a lump of 
butter; salt and pepper. When the rice is cooked the soup 
is done. 



MUTTON STEW. 



MADAME CHEVALLIEU. 



Chop some onion and fry; add a few potatoes, cut in 
small pieces, fry, then add small pieces of mutton, and 
when all is well fried, add water, cook for one hour and a 
half, then add a little parsley. 



TOMATO SAUCE. 



MADAME CHEVAU.IEi;. 



Take twelve tomatoes, an onion, a green pepper, parsley 
and garlic, let it cook for half an hour without water, then 
strain; afterwards add a piece of butter, with a small spoonful 
of flour; let it cook again for half an hour. 



* o * _ 



TURKEY STUFFING. 



Chop an onion with some parsley, put in a pan with 
bread soaked in milk, one raw egg, and a large piece of 



LOS ANGELES COOKER Y. 43 

butter; pepper and salt, fry for ten minutes, and then put 
it in the turkey, and sew the turkey up. If you wish olives 
in it, do not put in any onion. 



COFFEE. 



MADAME CHEVALLIEK. 



Use a French coffee pot; take half Java and half Costa 
Rica; filling 1 the measure with coffee, throw over it boiling 
water until the coffee pot is full. 



CHICKEN FRICASSEE. 



MADAME CHEVALLIER. 



Take the chicken, cut in pieces, and fry; then take an 
t>nion, chop, and fry until well browned; mix flour with it; 
add water, salt and pepper; put the chicken in with this, 
and let it cook for an hour witli a slow fire. 



HOW TO COOK EGGS. 



MADAME MEYER. 



Either poach or boil them not quite hard; make a to- 
mato sauce by cooking tomatoes in a good deal of butter; 
season with pepper and salt and add the yolks of two eggs, 
stirring the tomatoes slowly into the eggs; when this sauce 
is done pour it over the eggs. 



FILLED EGGS. 



MADAME MEYER. 



Boil the eggs quite hard, then cut them across the 
centre, taking out the yolks; moisten some bread-crumbs 
with milk, squeeze them quite dry, mix them with the yolks 
well; to this add finely chopped parsley, and salt. 



44 LOS ANGELES COOKERY. 

When this filling is well worked together, fill the whites 
with it; butter a flat pan, put the eggs in with the flat side 
down, and put whatever of the filling may be left over 
around them; make a rich white sauce, and pour it over 
them, sprinkle a few bread-crumbs over it, and set in the 
oven ten minutes. Dish it in the pan. 



SAUTE CHICKEN OR KIDNEY. 



MADAME MEYER. 

Slice and brown the chicken in fat; when nicely 
browned add a glass of soup, one onion, a carrot, some 
thyme and parsley, a small piece of garlic and one small 
green onion; let it cook for a little while; then add mush- 
rooms and cook an hour or so longer; if you like, add a lit- 
tle chopped parsley. 



MARANGOT CHICKEN, LEG OF LAMB, OR 
RABBIT. 

MADAME MEYER. 

(Mushrooms with the chicken or leg of lamb, but not 
with rabbit.) Carve the same as you do for the Saute, and 
brown in sweet oil; then add pepper, salt and mushrooms; 
before adding the mushrooms to the marangot, brown them. 
When it is done, add a .'ittle tomato sauce, and decorate with 
toasted bread or fried eggs. In both of the above recipes 
you cut the meat or fowl the same as for any stew. 



ESTR AGON CHICKEN. 



MADAME MEYER. 

Scald the estragon (estragon is an herb). Take 
the liver of the chicken, chop it very fine, adding pepper 
and salt and a piece of butter. To this add the estragon 
and work them well together; then fill the chicken with it, 



LOS ANGELES COOKERY. 45 

and put it in the oven, -with butter and a little lard, until 
it is nicely browned; after it is nicely browned you wrap it 
in white cooking paper; baste it very often until it is done. 
For the sauce, chop some estragon fine, add a little but- 
ter and flour; after they are well mixed, the yolk of one egg, 
a little soup, pepper and salt to taste, and just a little 
vinegar. 

_________ f\ 

HOW TO STEW PIGEONS. 



MADAME MEYER. 

To-a dozen pigeons take a bottle of olives, cut them as 
well as you can from the stones, and chop very fine with the 
livers of the pigeons; add bread crumbs, and season with 
thyme, ginger, pepper and salt; stuff the pigeons with this 
mixture and sew them up; rub some seasoning into them 
and wrap in grape leaves, so as to completely cover each 
one; then set aside. Brown some flour in a large lump of 
butter in a stew pan, and add some soup; put the pigeons 
in and stew till done; take off the grape leaves and dish. 




46 



AD VERTI8EMENT8. 



DILLON & KENEALY 



HAVE A COMPLETE STOCK OF 






All European and Eastern Novelties 

AT THE 



DILLON 4& KENEALY. 




DEALERS IX 



BEE MEN'S SUPPLIES, ETC., 

. 1 1 O 3^Ea,in. Street, 
LOS ANGELES, CAL. 



A 1) VERTISEMMNTS. 



LAEGEST STOCK WJ 



*>^ LOWEST PRICES. 




AT ^ 



FASHIONABLE 



AND MANUFACTORY. 
IO4: Main Street, Los Angeles. 

METROPOLITAN STORE 



OKO1CE 



GOODS DELIVERED FREE OF CHARGE. 



48 LOH ANGELES COOKERY. 



POULTRY AND GAME, 



HUNTERS' STEW. 

.1. A. GRAVES. 

Let those who would partake of a delightful repast 
prepare " Ponen siyna novis prceceptis." 

Take one dozen quail (use doves if you can't get quail), 
clean well, place them in a porcelain lined stew pan, with 
tight fitting cover. Let the pan be large enough to admit of 
all additions hereinafter enumerated. Pour in a gallon of 
water; add two pods of red pepper, black pepper and salt, 
to suit taste, and small slice of bacon; boil well with cover 
on for at least an hour; then add potatoes, tomatoes, one large 
onion, quartered, celery, chopped fine, green corn, cut from 
the ear (canned corn, if fresh is not in season), two table 
spoonfuls of fresh butter, more water, if necessary to keep 
from burning, and stew for at least an hour and a half. Reg- 
ulate the amount of vegetables according to taste. The 
tomatoes and corn add much to the flavor. A few rabbits, 
quartered and cooked with the birds, is also an improvement. 
Serve hot. 



TO FATTEN A TURKEY, MAKE THE DRESSING 
AND ROAST IT. 



MHS. ANXA OGIEE. 



Get your turkey six weeks before you need it; put him 
in a coop just large enough to let him walk, or in a small 
yard; give him walnuts one the first day, and increase 
every day one till he has nine; then go back to one and uj 



LOS ANGELES COOKERY. 40 

to nine until you kill him, stuffing him twice with corn meal 
dough each day, in which put a little chopped onion and 
celery, if you have it. For the dressing, use bread, picked 
up fine, a table spoonful of butter, some sage, thyme, 
chopped onion, pepper, salt, and the yolks of two eggs, and 
pour in a little boiling water to make it stick together; be- 
fore putting it in the turkey pour boiling water inside and 
outside, to cleanse and plump it; then roast it in a tin 
kitchen, basting all the time. It will be splendid, served 
with a nice piece of ham and cranberry sauce. 



TO COOK SPRING CHICKEN. 



>!RS. C. G. DU BOIS. 

Separate each joint; after cleansing and washing, dry 
in a towel; melt equal portions of butter and lard; when 
hot, fry the pieces carefully and place them in a covered 
dish. Turn the drippings out of the pan, put in a 
spoonful of butter. When melted, pour in a teacup of 
cream which has salt and pepper, a little grated nutmeg and 
a little parsley in; stir it well, and when it boils pour over 
the chicken. 



SMOTHERED CHICKEN. 



MRS. GEORGE CLARK. 



Prepare a fowl as for roasting, put it in a pot of boiling 
water and cook until tender; within twenty minutes of be- 
ing done add a cup of rice, which will cook in the gravy; 
add parsley, pepper and salt. Serve the chicken in a dish 
with the rice around it. 



JELLIED CHICKEN. 



SIRS. .1. G. HOWARD. 



Boil a chicken (or chickens) in as little water as possible 
until the meat falls from the bones; chop the meat fine, 
seasoning with a little salt, pepper, lemon or mace; put into 



50 LOS ANGELES COOKERY. 

the bottom of a mold some slices of hard-boiled eggs, then 
a layer of chopped chicken, another of egg, then chicken, 
until the mold is nearly full. Boil down the water in which 
the chicken was cooked, with a large piece of gelatine or 
sea-moss farina, until about a cup and a half is left; season 
and strain through a very coarse net, and pour over the mold 
of chicken. Let it stand over night, or all day, near the 
ice; to be garnished with celery tops or parsley. 



FRIED CHICKEN. 



MKS. I. AV. HELLMAN. 

Cut the chicken in quarters, cut out the bones, without 
spoiling the shape of the chicken, lay them in a bowl with 
vinegar and a very little sweet oil, season with pepper, salt, 
a few young onions, parsely and thyme; let remain this way 
for a few hours, turning it *n the meanwhile several times; 
then take out and dry on a towel; dip the pieces in a 
hatter composed of Hour, eggs and water. Fry nice and 
brown. 



PRESSED CHICKEN OR FOWL. 



MRS. M. G. MOORE. 



Take the meat from the bones of a cooked fowl, chop 
fine, season highly, add to it dressing and gravy; heat hot, 
stirring all the while, then put into a mold, laying a heavy 
weight upon it; when cold, slice it. 



BREAKFAST QUAIL. 

J. A. GRAVES. 

Prepare the birds by opening on the back; put them in 
a dripping pan; season well with salt, pepper and a gener- 
ous supply of butter; add enough water to cover the bottom 
of the pan; then place your pan in a hot oven and frequent- 



LOS ANGELES COOKERY. 51 

]y turn your birds, and baste them with the seasoned water 
in the pan, which gradually cooks down and makes a fine 
gravy. By continued basting, your birds, when well done 
and nicely browned, will still be rich and juicy, and will be 
of much better flavor than when broiled. Serve on thin 
slices of buttered toast. 

PRESSED CHICKEN. 



MRS. J. AV. GILLETTE. 

Put two chickens in a pot, corer with water, and stew 
slowly until the meat drops from the bone, then take out 
and chop it. Let the liquor boil down until there is a cupful; 
put in a small cup of butter, a table spoonful of salt, one of 
pepper, a little parsley and a beaten egg; stir this through 
the meat; Slice a hard-boiled egg, lay in the dish, and press 
in the meat; when ready for the table garnish with celery 
tops. 



YOUNG CHICKEN WITH CAULIFLOWER. 

MRS. I. W. BELLMAN*. 

Cut the chicken in pieces and boil in water seasoned 
with different spices and a little lemon juice, thickened with 
a little flour and the yolks of several eggs; cook the cauli- 
flower in water, with a little salt and butter; after it is 
cooked tender, drain it. Serve the chicken in the center of 
a dish, surrounded by the cauliflower, and pour the gravy 
over all. 



CHfCKEN STEW. 



MRS. C. G. DU BOIS. 



Cut up two tender chickens; cover with lukewarm 
water and boil gently until done; salt the liquor to taste; 
when the chicken is cooked remove to a dish and keep warm. 
Take the pot from the fire and skim the grease from the 



52 LOS ANGELES COOKERY. 

liquor, then place the pot of liquor over the fire; mix well 
together half teacup of sifted flour, two well beaten eggs 
and half teacup of milk; add some of the liquor; then pour 
all into the boiling liquor, stirring all the time; salt and pep- 
per; put the chicken in, let it boil up once, then remove to 
a large dish. 

.._ * (\* - 

TURKEY STUFFING. 



MRS. K. M. WIDNEY. 

Take stale but very light sweet bread, pour over cold 
water, and drain as dry as possible immediately; let stand 
an hour or more, then add butter plentifully, pepper, salt, 
sage, and lastly, chestnuts which have been previously 
boiled in salt water, peeled and chopped. 

L r\ 

\J 

TO COOK WILD DUCKS. 



MIIS. ('. G. DU BOIS. 

Put the ducks in a large pot, cover with cold water, 
and add two good sixed onions for each duck; when half 
done remove from the water, stuff with mashed potato and 
beaten egg two to each fowl seasoned with onions, sage, 
salt and pepper, and bake until thoroughly done, frequently 
basting with gravy. Serve with brown gravy, in which is 
stirred parsley, chopped fine and fried in butter. 



TOUGH OLD FOWLS. 

MRS. JOHN SMITH. 

Make a stuffing of bread crumbs, celery and butter, 
chopped and mixed; salt and pepper to taste; stuff the fowl 
and sew up the openings with coarse thread; when it is ready 
to cook, lay the fowl on a wire tea stand in a pot and put in 
about a quart of water; cover very closely; the fowl must 
not be in the water, but above it; put the pot over a slow 
fire and let it boil very slowly for two to three hours, de- 






LOS ANGELES COOKERY. 53 

pending on the age and toughness of the fowl; when tender 
put in a baking pan with the water, which should be much 
reduced by this time, and bake for twenty minutes or half 
an hour long enough to brown nicely. If the fowl is fat, 
as it should be, this is a sure way of making it eatable. 



TO ROAST TEAL DUCKS. 



MRS. ANNA OGIEB. 



Pick and clean and hang them for two days; make a 
stuffing of bread, picked up; salt, pepper, onions and a 
small piece of butter; put them into a pan and dredge them 
with flour, a little pepper and salt; baste frequently. 



BOILED FOWL WITH OYSTERS. 

MRS. GEORGE CLARK. 

Take a young fowl, stuff with oysters, put it into a jar, 
and plunge the jar in a kettle of water; boil for an hour 
and a half; there will be a quantity of gravy from the 
juices of the fowl and oysters, in the jar; make it into a 
white sauce with the addition of an egg and some cream, or 
a little flour and some butter; add oysters to it, or serve it 
plain with the fowl. The gravy that comes from a fowl 
dressed in this manner will be a stiff jelly the next day, 
while the fowl will be very white and tender and of an ex- 
ceedingly fine flavor. 



PRESSED CHICKEN. 



MRS. L. M. THOMPSON. 



Boil the chicken until the meat drops from the bones, 
remove from the pot and shred fine, season with pepper, salt 
and a little butter. Let the liquor left in the pot boil down, 
so as to leave not more than a small teacupful; pour it on 



54 LOS ANGELES COOKERY. 

the chicken and stir in. Dip a mold in cold water and fill 
with the chicken; press down and let stand over night. 
Serve with Saratoga potatoes. 



ROAST TURKEY. 



MRS. T. 8. STANWAY. 

Wash the inside and outside of the turkey. Prepare a 
dressing in the following manner: Soak sufficient bread in 
cold water to fill the turkey. Add half cup of melted butter, 
season with salt, pepper, sage, nutmeg or mace, thyme 
or marjoram. One egg in the dressing makes it cut 
smoothly. Fill the crop and body with dressing, sew 
up, tie the legs and wings, rub well with butter and a 
little salt; dredge with flour; roast it from two to four hours, 
according to size. It should roast slowly at first and be 
basted frequently, having two-thirds of a pint of water in 
the dripping pan. Boil the liver and gizzard, mince fine, 
thicken the gravy with a little flour, and add a spoonful of 
currant jelly if liked. 



ANOTHER WAY 



Stuff them with oysters and bread, put them in a pot 
with a little water and steam till done. 



TO COOK DUCKS OF A 


LARGE 


SIZE. 




MRS. ANNA OGIKR. 





ROAST GOOSE. 



MRS. T. 8. STAN WAY. 



A goose for roasting should be young, tender and fat. 
In preparing a goose for cooking, save the giblets for the 
gravy. After the goose has been drawn, singed well, 
washed and wiped inside and out, and trussed so as to look 
round and short, make a quantity of stuffing of dry bread 



LOS ANGELES COOKERY. 55 

crumbs, three good-sized onions, minced 'fine, sage, pep- 
per and salt, one egg, two if the goose is large, and three 
spoonfuls of butter. Fill the goose and roast; keep well 
basted. A goose must be thoroughly done. Roast from 
two to three hours, according to size. Boil the giblets in 
water, seasoned with salt, pepper and a bit of butter, 
dredged with flour. Mince liver and gizzard fine; put the 
two gravies together and serve them up in a gravy tureen. 
To serve with goose, have apple sauce, made of fine Jersey 
apples, steamed very dry and well sweetened. 



BONED TURKEY. 



MRS. ADELIA HALL. 

Boil a turkey in as little water as possible until the 
meat falls from the bones. Remove all the bones and skin. 
Pick the meat into small pieces and mix light and dark to- 
gether. Season with pepper, salt and sage; put into a mold 
and pour the liquor over, which must be kept Tfarm; press 
with a heavy weight. 



PLOVERS. 



MRS. T. 8. STANWAY. 



Birds with peculiar and pleasant flavor. Roast plain, 
basting only with butter, or fill them with a forcemeat and 
rub over the outside with beaten egg, and then roll each 
plover in finely-grated bread crumbs and roast. Serve upon 
buttered toast. 



SMOTHERED CHICKEN. 



MRS. ADELIA HALL. 



Dress chickens and let them stand in water half an hour, 
to make white; put in a baking pan, first cutting them open 
at the back; sprinkle salt and pepper over them, putting a 



56 LOS ANGELES COOKERY. 

piece of butter "here and there. Then cover tightly with 
another pan the same size and bake one hour. Baste often 
witb butter. 



BIRDS WITH MUSHROOMS. 



MRS. T. S. STANWAY. 

Take plovers, woodcock or snipe; truss them as if for 
roasting; put into each a button mushroom. Have a quart 
of mushrooms; put the birds and remaining mushrooms into 
a stew pan; season with a little salt and pepper; add a quar- 
ter of a pound of butter, rolled in flour, with a little water. 
If cream is plentiful you may use half cream and half but- 
ter. Cover the pan closely and stew gently till the birds and 
mushrooms are tender all through. Dip in hot water slices 
of toast with the crust trimmed off. When the birds are 
done lay them on the toast, with the mushrooms around. If 
you cannot get button mushrooms, divide large ones into 
quarters. 



CHICKEN SANDWICHES. 



MRS. ADELIA HALL. 

Stew a chicken until very tender; season with a little 
salt; take out the bones and pack the meat firmly in a deep 
dish, mixing white and dark meat nicely together; pour the 
broth in which the chicken was stewed over it. There 
should be just enough to cover the meat nicely. When 
cold cut in smooth slices; if desired, sprinkle with marjoram 
or sage, and place between slices of good bread. 



FORCEMEAT STUFFING. 



MRS. T. S. STANWAY. 

Forcemeat is considered an indispensable accompani- 
ment to most mado dishes, and when composed with good 
taste gives additional spirit and relish to even that "sover- 
eign of savoriness," turtle soup. It is also sent up in pat- 
ties, and for stuffing veal, game, poultry, etc. The ingredi- 
ents should be so proportioned that no one flavor predomi- 



LOS ANGELES COOKERY. 57 

nates. To give the same flavor to the stuffing of poultry, 
game, or veal, etc., argues a poverty of invention. With a 
little contrivance you may make as great a variety as you 
have dishes. The poignancy of forcemeat or stuffing should 
be proportioned to the savoriness of the viands to which it 
is intended to give an additional zest. Some dishes require 
a very delicately flavored forcemeat. For others it must be 
full and highly seasoned. What would be fine for turkey 
would be insipid for roast pig. Most people have an ac- 
quired and peculiar taste in stuffing, etc., and what exactly 
pleases one seldom is what another considers the most agree- 
able. The consistency of forcemeats is rather a difficult 
thing to manage. Take care to have the ingredients fine 
and thoroughly incorporated. Forcemeat balls must not be 
larger than a small nutmeg. If they are for brown sauce, 
flour and fry them; if for white, put them into boiling 
water and boil them for three minutes. The latter are by 
far the most delicate. Sweetbreads and tongues are the 
favorite materials for forcemeat. No one flavor should pre- 
dominate. A selection may be made from the following 
list, being careful to use the least of those articles which 
are the most pungent: Cold fowl, veal, ham, game, fat ba- 
con, beef suet, crumbs of bread, parsley, white pepper, salt, 
nutmeg, yolks and whites of eggs, well beaten, to bind the 
mixture. The forcemeat may be made with any of these 
articles without any striking flavor. Therefore any of the 
following different ingredients may be" made use of to vary 
the taste: Oysters, tarragon, savory, sage, thyme, mar- 
joram, sweet basil, garlic, cayenne, onions, mace, cloves, and 
yolks of hard-boiled eggs and curry powder. 



BROILED QUAIL. 



MRS. ADELIA HALL. 

Dress carefully, and soak a short time in salt and water. 
Split down the back; dry with a cloth, and rub them over 
with butter; place on the gridiron over a clear fire; turn 
often, and dip in melted butter; season with salt. Prepare 
a slice of thin toast, nicelv buttered and laid on a hot dish, 
for each bird. Lay a bird breast upward on each piece. 
Garnish with currant jelly. 



58 



AD VERTISEMENTS. 



1 



FASHIONABLE 



3L.OS 




F. LAZARUS. 



LOUIS LEWIN. 



LOUIS LEWIN & CO,, 

U & 16 Spring St., Los Angeles, Cat. 



AT WHOLESALE AND RETAIL. 

&x*iwaa e s &&f&,ias Q&S gp&eMz&Y. 



A. S. MCDONALD'S 




On your way to P. 0., 34 Spring St., Los Angeles. 

Men's, Ladies', Youths', Children's, Boys' and Misses', best 
San Fraucisco and Eastern Made 



BOOTS 




SIEIO-ES- 



Ladies' Custom Shoes, in euery style, Made a Specialty. 

The only place where Seamless Patches are put on. 



ADVERTISEMENTS. 59 



DEALER IN 



FANCY GOODS, 

Ladies' and Gents' Furnishing Goods, 

NOTIONS, CLOTHING, HATS, ETC,, 

35 Spring Street, Los Angeles. 

^-^ GO TO i*?*^ 

HEINZEMAN & ELLIS, 

DRUGGISTS AND CHEMISTS, 

72 MAIN STREET, 
Lanfranco Building, - Los Angeles, Cal. 

FOR FASHIONABLE 



vtv, 

CALL AT MRS. PONET'S, 

76 MAIN STREET. 

GOODS SOLD at New York Prices. 



60 LOS ANGELES COOKERY. 



VEGETABLE DEPARTMENT, 



OLD VIRGINIA CORN PUDDING. 



MRS. ANNA OGIER. 

Cut and scrape one dozen ears of corn ; place in a vel- 
low dish which it will nearly fill; break into this two eggs. 
When thoroughly beaten with the corn, add two tablespoon- 
fuls of flour, a teaspoonful of salt, half teaspooniul of black 
pepper; mix all well together; fill the pan with milk, stirring 
it very carefully into the corn, and when it is mixed put small 
bits of butter over the top and bake about half an hour. If 
the corn is not sweet corn, some add to the other ingredients 
one teaspoonful of sugar. 



SPINACH. 

MRS. R. M. WIDNEY. 

Wash and pick your spinach very carefully; drop into 
boiling water and cook fifteen minutes. Drain thoroughly 
through a colander; then chop quite fine. Return to the 
store; add one tablespoonful of butter; pepper and salt to 
taste. Put in vegetable dish and garnish with hard-boiled 
eggs. 

TO COOK CABBAGE. 

MRS. E. F. SPENCE. 

Take a nice, firm, medium-sized cabbage; wash; cut in 
four pieces. Have on a kettle with boiling water, in which 



LOS ANGELES COOKERY. 61 

is salt and one eighth of a teaspoonful of soda; put in the 
cabbage and boil twenty-five minutes. Serve hot. 



CABBAGE PUDDING. 



MRS. E. WORKMAN. 



Half head of cabbage, chopped fine and scalded in 
boiling water. Drain and mix with it four well beaten eggs, 
two cupfufs sweet cream, two tablespoonfuls melted butter, 
four biscuit, crumbled, salt and pepper; stir well and bake 
in a dish. 



STEWED TOMATOES. 

MRS. C. G. DU BOIS. 

Pour scalding water over your tomatoes, and as soon as 
the skin seems loosened pour off again; peel and cut up 
into a porcelain-lined stew pan. Let them boil some thirty 
minutes, and just a few minutes before taking up add but- 
ter, salt and pepper to taste. Sugar, cracker, bread or flour 
destroys the pure flavor of the tomato. 



EXCELLENT BAKED POTATOES. 



MRS. M. G. MOORE. 



One quart peeled potatoes, sliced thin; one cup of 
cream; pepper and salt. Bake one hour in a pudding dish. 
Serve hot. 



OLD-FASHIONED SLAW. 



MRS. MARY A. LINDLEY. 



Piece of butter the size of an egg, half a teacup of vinegar, 
one of sweet cream, one egg, heaped tablespoonful of sugar.. 
Put the butter and vinegar in a skillet and heat; mix egg, 



62 LOS ANGELES COOKERY. 

cream and sugar together and stir slowly into the heated vin- 
egar. Have the cabbage chopped or cut, and sprinkle with 
salt and pepper; put it into the mixture and let it scald for 
a minute or two. 



SARSA OF TOMATOES. 



MRS. M. K. J. 



Take one quart of tomatoes, six or eight pods of green 
peppers, and two onions; chop together; add salt and a lit- 
tle butter; stew slowly. To this may be added any kind of 
chopped meat desired. 



BAKED BEANS. 

MRS. C. G. DU BOIS. 

One pint of beans, parboiled till the skins crack when 
blown upon. Pour off the water and place the beans in your 
dish or pot. Take a piece of salt pork about two inches 
square; wash it clean; slit the skin and place in the middle 
of the beans so all is covered save the skin. Dissolve a 
tablespoonful of sugar in as much water as will cover the 
beans, and pour over them. Bake three or four hours. 



YOUNG CORN OMELET. 



MRS. GKO. CLA.RK. 

To a dozen ears of fine young corn allow five eggs. 
Boil the corn a quarter of an hour, and then with a large 
grater grate it down from the cob. Beat the eggs very light, 
and then stir gradually the grated corn into the pan of eggs. 
Add a small saltspoon of salt, a very little cayenne. Put 
into a frying-pan equal quantities of butter and fresh lard; 
stir them well together over the fire. When they boil, put 
in this mixture thick, and fry it, afterwards browning the 
top with a red-hot shovel or a salamandei. Transfer it, 



LOS ANGELES COOKERY. 63 

when done, to a heated dish, but do not fold it over. It will 
be found excellent. This is a good way of using boiled 
corn that has been left from dinner the preceding day. 



STRINGED BEANS. 

MBS. it. M. WIDNEY. 

Aftor stringing, washing, and snapping beans into small 
pieces, cover with cold water and cook until perfectly ten- 
der. If water remains turn it off. Cook dry being 
careful not to burn. Then add one tablespoon of butter; 
stir for a moment or two, after which add salt, pepper and 
cream; half a teacup will do; more is better. 



ASPAKAGUS. 



MRS. ANNA OGIER. 

Foil tender in salted water, and serve with melted butter. 



IMITATION OYSTEES. 



MKS. MARY A. LINDLEY. 

Grate young green corn in a dish. To one pint of 
grated corn add one egg, well beaten, a small teacup of 
flour, half a cup of butter. Season with salt and pepper; 
mix well together. A tablespoonful of the mixture will 
equal an oyster in size. Fry a light brown, and when done 
butter them. 



CORN PUDDING. 



MRS. GOODWIN. 



Cut the corn lengthwise and scrape out the juices. Fill 
the buttered dish two-thirds full of corn; add one-third of 



64 LOS AXGELES COOKERY. 

milk, to which has been added two well-beaten eggs. Stir 
this mixture, season with pepper and salt, and butter in bits 
on top. 



OKRA. 



MRS. ANNA OGIKR. 

Boil in clear water, with a little salt. When tender, 
dish and season with butter, pepper and salt. 



EGG PLANTS. 



AIRS. M. E. J. 



Boil three or four large ones till tender. Peel and 
mash. Season with black pepper, salt, and a teaspoonful of 
thyme; add a little butter and a few bread crumbs. Mold 
in a pie pan, sprinkle bread crumbs on top, and lay a few 
dabs of butter around. Brown in the oven. 



BAKED TOMATOES FOR BREAKFAST. 



MRS. T. S. STANWAY. 



Take a quart of cold stewed tomatoes, beat into it two 
eggs, four tablespoonfuls of bread crumbs, a tablespoonful 
of chopped parsley, a little more salt and pepper, and bake 
for twenty minutes in a quick oven. 



BAKED BEANS. 



MRS. MARY BACKMAN. 



One quart of white beans, soaked over night. Put on 
two quarts of water; boil one hour. Put in a piece of 
corned pork, about one pound a thin piece; boil a half hour 
in with the beans. Then take out the beans and pork; put 






LOS ANGELES COOKERY, 65 

them in a dish, to bake in the oven. Place the pork in the 
center of the beans and score well. Pour two tablespoon- 
fuls of molasses over the beans. 



FRIED TOMATOES FOR BREAKFAST. 



MRS. T. S. 8TANWAY. 



Take large, smooth tomatoes, cut them in slices, one- 
half inch thick; dip them in powdered bread-crumbs, and 
fry them a light brown, in half lard and half butter. 



TO BOIL CORN. 



MRS. T. S. STANWAY. 



Put it in boiling water. Never allow it to boil over five 
minutes; after that it becomes hard and tough. 



PARSNIPS. 



MRS. M. E. J. 



Boil, mash, season with butter, pepper and salt, and 
make into little cakes; roll in flour and brown in hot lard. 



MACARONI ITALIAN STYLE. 



LOUISEJ. 

Break macaroni in three-inch lengths and put in boil- 
ing salt water, and boil twenty-five minutes. Then drain 
and dress with following sauce: Take two pounds of lean 
beef; without any fat, and stew gently with a small cup of 
cold water until the juice is entirely extracted. Chop an 
onion very fine; cut up two tomatoes and three or four 
mushrooms; add pepper and salt, and stew in the beef juice 
until you are ready to dish the macaroni. First sprinkle 



66 LOS ANGELES COOKERY. 

your dish \vith grated Parmesan cheese; then add a layer of 
macaroni, over which pour some sauce. Fill the dish in 
this order, having macaroni with sauce on top. 



ASPARAGUS. 



MRS. T. S. STANWAY. 



Trim off the tough part of the stalks, tie in small bun- 
dles, and boil it fifteen to twenty minutes. Toast some 
bread and dip it in the water in which the asparagus was 
cooked. Then lay a bundle of asparagus on each slice of 
toast. Make drawn butter and turn it over the whole. 



FRIED TOMATOES. 



MRS. I. S. MAYO. 



Cut ripe tomatoes in two, and fry slowly on both sides, 
in butter or lard. When thoroughly cooked, take them out, 
pour a little milk or cream in the frying-pan, thicken with 
a little flour, and season with salt and a pinch of red pepper; 
pour it over the tomatoes, and serve. 



CORN OYSTERS. 

MRS. T. 8. STANWAY. 

Grate twelve ears of sweet corn; add two well-beaten 
eggs, a pinch of salt and two teaspoonfuls of white sugar. 
Drop in hot lard and fry until done. 

RICE AND CHEESE. 



MRS. M. E. J. 

Put a layer of rice boiled in milk in the bottom of a 
buttered pudding dish; grate upon it some rich, mild cheese, 
and scatter over it some bits of butter. Spread upon th< 



LOS ANGELES COOKERY. 67 

cheese more rice, and fill the dish in this order, having rice 
at the top, buttered well, without the cheese. Add a few 
spoonfuls of cream or milk and a very little salt. Cover 
and bake half an hour. Then brown nicely, and serve in 
the bake-dish. 



GREEN PEASE. 

MBS. T. S. STANWAY. 

To one quart of pease put a tablespoonful of white 
sugar. When cooked, drain them dry, and add butter, salt 
and pepper to your taste. If liked, use cream instead of 
butter. 



CHEESE OMELET. 



MRS. GEORGE CLARK. 

It is necessary to have a rather small frying-pan to have 
good omelets, for if a large one is used the ingredients will 
spread over it and become thin. Another rule to observe is, 
that omelets should be fried only on one side. Use from 
five to ten eggs, according to the sized dish required. Break 
them up singly and carefully, each one to be well and sep- 
arately beaten or whisked. Add to them grated cheese, 
the quantity to be regulated according to the number of 
eggs used three ounces to four eggs; salt and pepper to 
the taste. Dissolve in a small, clean frying-pan about an 
ounce of butter; pour in the ingredients, and as soon as the 
omelet is well risen and appears quite firm (from fire to 
seven minutes with a good fire), fold it over and slide it 
carefully onto a hot dish. Place it in the oven for one min- 
ute. Do not let it stand before serving. 



FRENCH, OR STRING BEANS. 



MRS. T. S. STANWAY. 



String the beans and cut off the ends. Cut them very 
small. To one pound and a half of beans take one tomato, 



68 LOS ANGELES COOKERY. 

peeled, a very small quantity of onion and two Chilleis. Re- 
move the seeds and chop fine, and add a large lump of but- 
ter and salt and pepper. When nearly cooked, add one 
tablespoonful of vinegar, and one-half . spoonful of flour, 
made smooth in a little water. Let it come to a boil, and 
dish up. Use only enough water to cook them. 



IRISH POTATOES, FRIED. 



MRS. T. S. STANWAY. 

Take raw potatoes, peel them, slice them very thin, 
pour cold water over them, and let them stand one hour or 
more; drain off the water, dry them in a napkin, and throw 
them into boiling la p d. When cooked, skim them out into 
a hot dish and sprinkle a little salt over them. 



MACARONI. 

MRS. M. E. J. 

One-half pound of macaroni in long pieces. Soak fif- 
teen minutes in warm water; drain and put in a saucepan; 
pour over it a half pint of meat gravy, with some shreds of 
meat in it; add three ounces of old cheese, two large toma- 
toes, and one clove of garlic, all chopped fine. Season well 
with red pepper and salt. Boil fifteen minutes, shaking it 
occasionally, but not stirring. When done, add a table - 
spoonful of butter and sprinkle two ounces of grated cheese 
over the top. 



SUCCOTASH. 



MRS. T. S. STANWAY. 

Cut the corn from twelve ears. Take one-third the 
quantity of Lima beans. Put the beans to cook in water 
enough to cover them. Cook one-half hour; then add the 
corn, with a large spoonful of white sugar, a good-sized 
piece of butter, and salt and pepper to taste. In cutting 



LOS ANGELES COOKERY. 69 

the corn from the ears use a sharp knife; cut only half of 
the kernel. This is added to the beans. Then take a knife 
and scrape the corn clean from the ears. Set this to one 
side. A few moments before dishing up the succotash, add 
the corn or milk taken from the ears last. Stir it well, as it 
will burn very easily afterwards. 

I 

, * O * *-- ~ 

SWEET POTATOES, FRIED. 



MRS. T. S. STAN WAY. 



Pour boiling 1 water over them; half cook them, drain off 
the water, peel them, cut in slices half an inch thick, and fry 
in batter to a nice brown. 



IRISH POTATOES, STEWED. 



MRS. T. S. STANWAY. 

Put into a saucepan two ounces of butter and one table- 
spoonful of flour; stir smooth. Add some parsley, chopped 
tine, salt and pepper, and stir up together. Then add a cup 
of rich milk. Set it on the fire, stirring continually until it 
boils. Cut some cold boiled potatoes in long, narrow strips 
or slices and put them in the saucepan. Let them boil up, 
and serve hot. 




70 



AD VERTISEMENTS. 



DOTTER & BRADLEY, 



DEALERS IX 




CARPETS, 

IPEI^ ETC, ETO., 
SO, 82 & 84 Main Street, 

LOS ANGELES, GAL. 




IN LOS ANGELES. 
HAMMEL & DENKER, - - - Proprietors. 

NEW AND ELEGANT HOTEL IS SITUATED IN 
. , the center of the City of Los Angeles, contains nearly a bundled 
spacious and airy rooms, newly furnished in the most comfortable 
style. Rooms in suites for families and parties on every floor, with 
hot and cold baths. 

THE TABLE will always be furnished with the best supplies 
that can be procured in the market. 

A FREE COACH is always on hand to carry guests to the house. 

No pains spared to make guests comfortable in every way A large 

reading-room open night and day. 

HEXRY HAMMEL,, 
A. H. DEXKEK. 



AD VERTISEMENTS. 



71 



Wholesale and Retail Dealers in 



igt^ gtttl 



FANCY GOODS, CLOTHING, GENTS' FUENISHINa GOODS, 

BOOTS & SHOES, HATS, CAPS, ETC. 
17 & 19 Spring St., Los Angeles. 

. IB. TCJT-iI-iIS, 

J WATCHMAKEK, V^^_ 



;anfat luring eweler ^ 



&7 Downey Block, Main St., Los Angeles. 

Repairing in all Branches of the Trade. Written Guarantee, with 
full description of watch, given with every watch repaired. Strictly 
first-class work done at reasonable rates. 

The Finest Letter tSnyraver in Southern Cal. 




MRS. B. NATHAN, PROP'*. 
READY-MADE DRESSES, 

Ladies' and Chile ren's Underwear. 

Satisfaction Guaranteed. 91 SPRING ST., LOS ANGELES. 



LOS ANGELES COOKERY. 



SAUCE DEPARTMENT, 



MAYONNAISE SAUCE. 

MRS. HENDERSON'S COOK BOOK. 

Put the uncooked yolk of an egg into a cold bowl; beat 
it well with a silver fork; then add two salt-spoonfuls of 
salt and one salt-spoonful of mustard powder; work them 
well a minute before adding the oil; then mix in a little 
good oil, which must be poured in very slowly (a few drops 
at a time) at first, alternated occasionally with a few drops 
of vinegar. In proportion as the oil is used, the sauce 
should gain consistency. When it begins to have the ap- 
pearance of jelly, alternate a few drops of lemon juice with 
the oil. When the egg has absorbed a gill of oil, finish the 
sauce by adding a very little pinch of cayenne pepper and 
one and a half teaspoonfuls of good vinegar. Taste it to 
see that there are salt, mustard, cayenne and vinegar enough. 
If not, add more very carefully. These proportions will 
suit most tastes; yet some like more mustard and more oil. 
Be cautious not to use too much cayenne. 

By beating the egg a minute before adding the oil, 
there is little danger of the sauce curdling; yet if, by adding 
too much oil at first, it should possibly curdle, immediately 
interrupt the operation. Put the yolks of one or two eggs 
on another plate; beat them well, and add the curdled May- 
onnaise 'by degrees, and finish by adding more oil, lemon 
juice, vinegar, salt, and cayenne according to taste. If 
lemons are not at hand, many use vinegar instead. 

Delrnonico uses four yolks of eggs for two quart bottles 
of oil. It is only necessary, then, to use one yolk for a pint 
of oil, the egg only being a foundation for the sauce. It is 



LOS ANGELES COOKERY. 73 

easier, however, to begin with more yolks; many use three 
of them for a gill of oil. The sauce will not curdle so easily 
if the few drops of vinegar are used at first, after a very lit- 
tle oil is used. It keeps perfectly well by putting it into a 
glass preserve or pickle bottle, with a ground-glass stopper. 
It is well to have enough made to last a week at least. The 
opportunity of making it may be taken, and adding it to 
the Mayonnaise bottle, when there are extra yolks left after 
the whites of the eggs are used for other purposes, such as 
white cake, corn-starch, pudding, etc. 

It requires about a quarter of an hour to make this 
sauce. In summer the process of making it is greatly facil- 
itated by placing the eggs and oil in the ice-chest half an 
hour before using them. 



TOMATOES A' LA MAYONNAISE. 



MKS. HENDERSON'S COOK BOOK. 

This is truly a delicious dish; it would, in fact, be good 
every day during the tomato season. 

Select large, fine tomatoes and place them in the ice- 
chest; the colder they are the better, if not frozen. Skin 
them without the use of hot water and slice them, still re- 
taining the form of the whole tomato. Arrange them in 
uniform order on a dish, with a spoonful of Mayonnaise 
sauce thick as a jelly on the top of each tomato. Garnish 
the dish with leaves of any kind. Parsley is very pretty. 

Some marinate the tomato slices, i. e., dip them into a 
mixture of three spoonfuls of vinegar to one spoonful of oil, 
pepper, and salt; and then, after draining well, mix them in 
the Mayonnaise sauce. 



CHICKEN SALAD. 



MRS. HENDERSON'S COOK BOOK. 

Boil a young tender chicken, and when cold, separate 
the meat from the bones; cut it into little square blocks or 
dice; do not mince it. Cut white tender stalks of celery 
into about three quarter-inch lengths, saving the outside 
green stalks for soups. Mix the chicken and celery together, 



74 LOS ANGELES COOKERY. 

and then stir well into them a mixture in the proportion of 
three tablespoonfuls of vinegar to one tablespoonful of oil, 
with pepper, salt, and a little mustard to taste. Put this 
aside for an hour or two, or until just before serving. This 
is called marinating the chicken; it will absorb the vinegar, 
etc. When about to serve, mix the celery and chicken with 
a Mayonnaise sauce, leaving a portion of the sauce to mask 
the top. Reserve several fresh ends or leaves of celery with 
which to garnish the dish. Stick a little bouquet of these 
tops in the center of the salad, then a row of them around 
it. From the center to each of the four sides sprinkle rows 
of capers. Sometimes slices or little cut diamonds of hard- 
boiled eggs are used for garnishing. 

Chicken salad is often made with lettuce instead of cel- 
ery. Marinate the chicken alone; add it to the small tender 
leaves (uncut) of the lettuce the last moment before serving; 
then pour Mayonnaise dressing over the top. Garnish with 
little center-heads of lettuce, capers, cold chopped red beets 
if you choose, or sliced hard boiled eggs. Sometimes little 
strips of anchovy are added for a garnish. When on the 
table it should all be mixed together. Many may profit by 
this recipe for chicken salad, for it is astonishing how few 
understand making so common a dish. It is generally 
minced, and mixed with hard-boiled eggs, etc., for a dress- 
ing. 



SALAD DRESSING. 



MRS. J. K. HOLLENBECK. 

Beat yolks of eight eggs, add to them a cup of sugar, 
one tablespoonful each of salt, mustard, and black pepper, 
a little cayenne pepper, and half a cupful of cream; mix 
thoroughly. Bring to a boil a pint and a half of vinegar; 
add one cupful of butter, and boil again; pour upon the 
mixture, and stir it well. It can be kept for weeks by 
bottling when cold, and putting away in a cool place. 

ANOTHER: Yolks of two hard-boiled eggs, rubbed 
very fine and smooth, one teaspoonful English mustard, one 
of salt, the yolks of two raw eggs beaten into tlie others, 
a dessertspoonful of fine sugar; add very fresh sweet oil, 



LOS ANGELES COOKERY. 75 

poured in by very small quantities, and beaten as long as 
the mixture continues to thicken; then add vinegar till as 
thin as desired; if not hot enough with mustard, add a little 
cayenne pepper. 



CABBAGE SALAD. 



MRS. J. M. STEWART. 

One salad bowl cabbage, cut fine, three-quarter pint of 
vinegar, and lump of butter the size of a walnut; bring to 
a boil, then add one (or two, if the cabbage is watery,) well- 
beaten eggs, with one-half pint rich cream. One teaspoonful 
sugar, one-half teaspoonful salt, one-half teaspoonful corn- 
starch, one teaspoonful, grated dry, horse-radish, two pinches 
black pepper. Stir briskly until it boils, and mix with the 
cut cabbage while hot. 



POTATO SALAD. 



MRS. M. M. TEMPLETON. 

Chop fine one small onion, slice then twelve cold pota- 
toes; season with pepper, salt, and three tablespoonfuls of 
vinegar, one of made mustard, two of salad oil; mix thor- 
oughly. A little chopped celery improves it. 



POTATO SALAD. 



MRS. J. E. HOLLEXBECK. 

Slice cold boiled potatoes fine, with enough fine sliced 
raw onions to season; add pepper, salt, sweet oil, and vine- 
gar to suit taste; mixing with care not to break slices of 
potatoes. 

:o: 

SALAD DRESSING. 

MRS. J. DE EARTH SHORB. 

For an ordinary salad of any kind for a family of six or 
ight persons. To a teaspoonful of mustard add sufficient 



76 LOS ANGELES COOKERY. 

water to reduce to a paste about the consistence of hatter; 
then add the yolks of two or three fresh eggs; beat the 
compound well until the ingredients are thoroughly mixed. 
Two teaspoonfuls of white sugar are then dissolved in the 
smallest quantity of water, and stirred into the mixture. 
Add a small quantity of red pepper (one-quarter of a tea- 
spoonful). Pour in the oil, two tablespoonfuls at a time, 
mixing thoroughly in the dressing until ten or twelve table- 
spoonfuls of oil have been used. Finally add two table- 
spoonfuls of vinegar. 



SALAD DRESSING. 

MRS. S. SPEEDY. 

Beat two eggs; add one-half teacup of vinegar, one 
teaspoonful of mustard, one of sugar, one-half teaspoonful of 
salt, and a lump of butter the size of a walnut. Set this in 
boiling water until the egg is cooked; stir constantly. This 
makes a very nice dressing, especially for cabbage. 



CHICKEN SALAD. 



MRS. M. M. TEMPLETON. 






Two large chickens, boiled; the yolks of nine hard- 
boiled eggs, half pint of vinegar, one gill of mustard, 
mixed, one small teaspoonful of cayenne pepper, one tea- 
spoonful of salt, and four large heads of celery, chopped 
fine. 



SALAD DRESSING. 

MRS. ANNA OGIER. 

To two hard-boiled yolks of eggs, beaten well, add am 
incorporate one salt-spoonful of table salt, one mustard- 
spoonful of raw mustard, a teaspoonful of soft sugar, am 
one cayenne-spoonful of cayenne pepper. Before begin- 
ning, rub the basin over with a bit of garlic or onion. When 
all is well pounded, add very gently, mixing all the time, 
four tablespoonfuls of cream or milk and two tablespoonfuls 



LOS ANGELES COOKERY. 77 

of vinegar. The last must be put in slowly, as it depends 
on the strength of the vinegar how much to use. Stop 
pouring in when the dressing becomes thick. This dressing 
was taught me by an old epicure, and whenever I make it 
every one speaks of its perfection. 



DRESSING FOR SALAD. 



MRS. M. M. TEMPLETON. 



One egg, one tablespoonful of cream, one tablespoonful 
of white sugar, three of vinegar, one of olive oil, one of 
mixed mustard, and a little salt. 



CHICKEN SALAD. 



MRS. J. E. HOLLENBECK. 



One teaspoonful mustard, two hard-boiled yolks of 
eggs, well mashed, two raw yolks of eggs, well beaten, pep- 
per and salt to taste, half a bottle of sweet oil, three table- 
spoonfuls of vinegar, celery and lettuce; breast of chicken; 
shred it; do not chop it. 



SALAD DRESSING. 



MISS TU1HILL. 

The yolk of one hard-boiled egg, mashed very fine and 
smooth, one teaspoonful of sugar, one salt-spoon even full 
of salt, one-half teaspoonful of dry mustard, and two or three 
sprinkles of black pepper from the pepper-box. Mix the 
dry things all together with the mashed yolk; then add one 
raw yolk; mix in well with a wooden salad-spoon; then add 
a salad-spoonful and a half of oil, a little at a time; beat 
thoroughly, and then add two salad-spoonfuls of vinegar. 



78 LOS ANGELES COOKERY. 



EGG DEPARTMENT, 



SHIRRED EGGS. 



MRS. S. C. HUBBKLL. 

Put a lump of butter in a tin plate or shallow pudding 
dish, and place on the stove till the butter is hissing hot; 
then put in the number of eggs desired, previously broken 
with care on a plate. Let them cook till the whites are par- 
tially set. Serve immediately, in the hot dish. They are to 
be seasoned to taste when eaten. 



OMELET. 

MRS. T. S. STANWAY. 

Break the eggs in one dish; stir rather than beat them. 
To each three eggs add a spoonful of cold water; salt and 
pepper to taste. Put two ounces of butter in the pan. 
When the butter is hot, put in the omelet. As soon 
cooked on one side, turn over quickly and cook on the other 
side. Serve on a very hot plate, and sprinkle a little chop- 
ped parsley over the top. " Water makes an omelet light 
tender, and moist." 



OMELET. 



MRS. H. K. s. O'MELVKNST. 

Take six eggs, well beaten (the yolks and whites se[ 
arately), a pint cupful of warm milk with a tablespoonful < 
butter melted in it, a tablespoonful of flour wet in a littl 
cold milk, a teaspoonful of salt, and a little pepper. Mi: 



LOS ANGELES COOKERY. 79 

all together, adding the whites of the eggs last. Cook im- 
mediately in a frying-pan on the top of the stove until baked 
on the bottom; then brown in the oven. 



FRENCH EGGS. 



MRS. E. WORKMAN. 



Boil hard five eggs; boil three onions; chop both fine; 
add a spoonful of butter, three biscuit, broken fine, and salt 
and pepper to taste. Stir well together and bake in a dish. 



BAKED OMELET. 



MRS. M. MCLELLAN. 

Heat three gills of milk with a dessert spoonful of but- 
ter in it. Beat four or five eggs thoroughly. Mix a table- 
spoonful of flour with a teaspoonful of salt; smooth in a lit- 
tle cold milk; mix the eggs with the flour and cold milk; 
then add the hot milk, stirring fast. Bake fifteen or twenty 
minutes in a buttered dish in a quick oven. 



OMELET. 



MRS. A. A. DODSWORTH. 



Six eggs, one cup of milk, one tablespoonful of flour, 
and a pinch of salt. Beat the whites and yolks separately; 
mix the flour, milk, and salt; add the yolks, and then the 
beaten whites. Have a buttered dish very hot; pour in; 
bake in a quick oven five minutes. A perfect omelet. 



CURRTED EGGS. 

MRS. M. K. J. 

Slice an onion; fry brown; add a tablespoonful of cur- 
ry powder, a pint of good broth, and a little salt; let it cook 
till the onion is tender. Thicken a half pint of milk with 
cornstarch, and stir in; let it simmer a few minutes; then 



80 LOS ANGELES COOKERY. 

add a dozen hard-boiled eggs, halved; warm through. Take 
the eggs up and arrange in a dish and pour the gravy over. 



OMELET SOUFFLE. 



MRS. E. C. STABIN. 

One cup of flour, one pint of milk, one spoonful of 
sugar, and a lump of butter the size of a walnut. Scald the 
milk, flour and butter together. After the batter is cold 
stir in the yolks of five eggs. Stir in the whites of the eggs, 
well beaten, just before baking. Bake in a quick oven; eat 
with sauce. This is a splendid pudding. 




AD VERTISEMENTS. 



81 



A. VIGNOLO. 



GEO. A. VIGNOLO. 



IO8 Main St., Los Angeles. 




Wholesale and Retail Dealers In 

4> 

l^l ""I*"""!. 

"I 




m<j| 

(i^ 



COMMISSION MERCHANTS, 
THE HIGHEST PRICE PAID FOR COUNTRY PRODUCE. 

Goods Delivered to all Parts of the City Free of Charge. 



1^9 JUit^^^^^LP^f h'^^Y 
CUOTURIERE FEANCAISE MODES DE PAEI3. 



KO. 28 SJPRIXG 8THEET. 



GENERAL AGENT FOR BUTTERICK'S CELEBRATED PATTERNS. 

Block and French Stamping Neatly and Promptly Done. 

CAROLEAN C. BURTON, 

- ^f 



HAIR DRESSING EMPORIUM, 

Hair Work of all kinds in the Best Manner, at Short Notice. 

Tangled Hair Straightened, and made up in any Style Desired, at Prices to 

SUIT THE TIMES. 
No. 137 Iffitin Street, Los Angeles, Cat. 



A D VE R TI8EMENTS. 



DEALER IN 



* 



t* mi 



Fancy Goods, Toys, Notions, Silverware, etc. Sewing 

Machine Needles for all Machines. Celluloid 

Collars and Cuffs. 



-^00 TO SLANEY'SM?r- 



II- 



FOR THE BEST 

Boots and Shoes in Southern California, 

AND FOR THE LEAST MONEY. 

161 Main Street, between First and Second, Los Angeles. 

THE BEST PLACE IN THE CITY TO BUY 

DRY GOODS & CLOTHING, 

c. 



IS AT 



GIVE HIM A CALL, LADIES. 




Temple Block, Main Street, Los Angeles, Cal. 



LOS ANGELES COOKERY. 83 



BREAD DEPARTMENT, 



YEAST BREAD. 



MRS. S. H. LA FETRA. 



Boil and mash very fine two or three medium-sized po- 
tatoes; add one quart of water, one-half tablespoonful of 
salt, the same of sugar, and four spoonfuls of best home- 
made yeast; stir in sufficient flour to make a moderately stiff 
batter; cover closely, and let it stand over night. In the 
morning stir down and let it rise again. Then add a pint of 
warm water and a lump of nice sweet lard; mix in flour and 
knead well; let rise; mold into pans, and when light, bake 
in a moderate oven. It is sometimes necessary in warm 
weather to add a small quantity of soda to the sponge be- 
fore mixing the bread. 



POTATO YEAST. 

MRS. S. H. LA FETRA. 

Boil and mash very fine two medium-sized potatoes; 
add one teaspoonful of salt, one tablespoonful of sugar, and 
one-half teaspoonful of ground ginger; thin with water. 
When milk-warm, put in one-half iupulin yeast gem, well 
soaked in warm water. Make fresh every two weeks. 

WHITE BREAD. 



MRS. J. M. CAMPBELL. 

One quart of warm water and one cup of yeast; mix 
flour enough to make a thick batter; set to rise one hour; 
mix and knead with more flour, until it is perfectly smooth 



84 LOS ANGELES COOKERY. 

and \vill not stick to the hands. Cover with a thick cloth 
and tin cover over that. Set to rise again in a warm place. 
When sufficiently raised knead again, using very little flour. 
Put it in your tins to rise again. Bake in a moderately hot 
oven. Use the potato yeast. Sift the flour. Use no salt in 
the bread if potato yeast is used. 



CORN BREAD. 



MISS M. MCLELLAN. 



One cup of corn meal, one cup of flour, and two tea- 
spoonfuls of baking-powder, well mixed; add one cup of 
milk, one or two beaten eggs, one tablespoonful of sugar, 
and one teaspoonful of salt. 



GRAHAM BREAD. 



MRS. J. M. CAMPBELL. 

One pint of warm water, half cup of potato yeast, half 
cup of syrup, half teaspoonful of soda, and enough Graham 
flour to make a stiff batter. Put in the tin you intend to 
bake it in; set in a warm place to rise. When sufficiently 
raised, bake in a moderately hot oven. 

:o: 

MILK YEAST, OR SALT RISING BREAD. 

MRS. C. C. LAMB. 

One pint wheat midlings; stir into it one tablespoonful 
of white sugar, one tablespoonful of ginger, one teaspoonful 
of salt, one teaspoontul of soda. Put the mixture into 
something tight. The day before you wish to make your 
bread, take two large tablespoonfuls of this dry mixture, 
put in a cup and pour boiling water upon it; make it about 
as thick as yeast, and set it where it will keep warm. Do 
this at noon, and by night it will be light, though it will not 
rise high. The next morning take a cup of new milk, and 
one of boiling water, and a little salt, stir in flour until it is 
about as thick as for fritters, then add the yeast made the 



LOS ANGELES COOKERY. 85 

day before (do not be afraid to use it if it is dark, it will not 
discolor your bread). Set in a kettle of water as hot as you 
can bear your hand in, and in two or three hours it will be 
up and foaming; then mix your bread, put it in your pans, 
let it rise until light, and it is ready to bake. 



YEAST. 



LOUISE J. 

Four large potatoes, three pints boiling water, two hand- 
ful hops, two tablespoonfuls salt, two tablespoonfuls sugar, 
one small cup of flour. Pare potatoes and put in boiling 
water, cover and boil until they break apart; take out and 
mash fine; leaving water boiling, in which place hops for 
one minute, then strain and pour over the mashed potatoes; 
when almost cold, add salt, sugar, with flour sprinkled on 
top; when cold, add four big spoonfuls of yeast. 



POTATO YEAST. 



MRS. J. M. CAMPBELL. 



Three large potatoes, pared and cut into small pieces, 
covered with water, and boiled until quite soft. Mash in the 
water; add two tablespoons of hops, boiled in half a pint of 
water and strained. When this cools, add a little of your 
old yeast. Set to rise. 



WHITE BREAD. 



MRS. DR. HAZLETINE. 

Put into your bread-pan a quantity of flour; in the cen- 
ter of it put a heaping teaspoon ful of white sugar, a small 
half-teaspoonful of salt, piece of lard as large as a walnut, 
two or more large spoonfuls potato yeast. With a spoon 
work the lard, yeast, sugar and salt together. Take one 
cup new milk, pour upon it one cup boiling water; let it 
cool, and put in your flour. Mix stiff enough to mold, half 
an hour or more, as you have time, set to rise in a warm 



86 LOS ANGELES COOKERY. 

place. When raised, cut it and mold into loaves. This 
quantity makes one good loaf. 

' ' * CK -- 



BUNS. 



MRS. C. C. LAMB. 



Mix a sponge the same as for bread, then add a piece of 
butter as large as an egg, one and one-half cups sugar, two 
eggs, one cup of milk, one teaspoonful of soda. Let it rise, 
put in your tins, and let rise again. Take the white of 
an egg, beat with sugar, and put on the top as soon as it 
comes from the oven. 



BREAD. 



LOUISE J. 



Six quarts flour make eight loves; two tablespoon fuls 
salt, one tablespoonful sugar, one pint yeast, two spoonfuls 
butter. Mix with a pint of milk, and same of tepid water. 
Large loaves bake one hour. 



POTATO YEAST. 



MRS. DR. HAZELTINE. 

Pour upon one cup of grated potato one quart of 
boiling water; let it stand on the stove and boil for a few 
minutes, then put in two-thirds of a cup of white sugar, 
two large spoonfuls of salt; beat it until dissolved, let it 
cool, and put in potato yeast to raise. It will keep two 
weeks in a cool place. 



CREAM BISCUIT. 



MRS. J. M. STEWART. 



To one quart of sifted flour add two heaping teaspoon- 
fuls of Dr. Price's cream baking-powder and one coffeecupful 
of sour cream, into which stir a scant quarter of a teaspoon of 



LOS ANGELES COOKERY. 87 

soda and a little salt. Use sweet milk enough to mix up the 
flour so it will roll out easily. Have the oven hot, and bake 
as quick as possible. 

The above makes a superior crust for strawberry short- 
cake. Roll out the dough in two equal parts; spread a very 
little butter between them, and when baked they divide 
easily. 

:o: 

MUFFINS. 



MRS. S. B. CASWELL. 

One cup of milk, two cups of flour, one teaspoonful of 
butter, one egg, half teaspoon of soda, one teaspoonful of 
cream of tartar, and sugar if you like. 



CORN BREAD. 



MRS. BARROWS. 

One cupful of flour, two cupfuls of corn meal, two 
tablespoonfuls of sugar, two teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar, 
one teaspoonful of soda, two and a half cupfuls of milk, and 
three eggs. Beat the yolks and whites separately, and put 
in last. 



STEAMED BROWN BREAD. 



MRS. C. C. LAMB. 

One cup of sour milk, one teaspoonful of soda, one cup 
of sweet milk, three-fourths of a cup of syrup, a little salt, 
one cup of rye flour, one and one-half cups of corn meal, 
one and one-half cups of Graham flour, and a piece of but- 
ter the size of an egg. Should the mixture prove to be too 
stiff, add a little more sweet milk. 

GEMS, FOR BREAKFAST. 



MRS. S. B. CASWELL. 

One cup of milk, one cup of water, three cups of sifted 
flour, and a pinch of salt. Beat together ten minutes; pour 



88 LOS AXGELES COOKERY. 

the mixture into hot buttered pans; bake in a quick oven 
ten minutes. 

MUFFINS. 

MRS. C. H. BRADLEY. 

One quart of flour, three teaspoonfuls of yeast powder, 
three eggs, well beaten, two tablespoonfuls of melted but- 
ter and one pint of milk. Bake in muffin rings in a quick 
oven. 



ROLLS. 



MRS. R. M. W1DXEY. 

One egg, one pint of sweet milk, half cup of fresh lard, 
fourth cup of white sugar, and one heaping tablespoonful of 
brewers' yeast, which has been soaked in cold water to ex- 
tract the bitterness of the beer. To the milk add lard, egg, 
sugar, and salt. Stir in sifted flour enough to make a thin 
batter; then add the yeast, and let it stand until very light. 
Mix and knead twenty or thirty minutes; let rise, and roll 
out. Cut with biscuit cutter, kneading as little as possible. 
When light again, bake twenty-five minutes. 



CORN MEAL CAKES. 



MRS. S. B. CASWELL. 



One good pint of corn meal, a little salt, a large spoon- 
ful of syrup, and a half spoonful of soda. Scald well; then 
add a handful of flour and one egg. Have plenty of hot 
fat in a pan, and drop in a spoonful of the batter at a time. 
Fry quickly. 



ROLLS, OR FLUM-DOODLES. 



ANONYMOUS. 

One pint of poiato yeast, one pint of fresh milk; make 
a sponge and let it rise light; add three eggs, one cup of 
sugar, one-fourth pound of butter, and a little salt. Make 



LOS ANGELES COOKERY. 89 

into a soft dough, mixing with a spoon; do not use the hands. 
Let it get very light; then pinch off small bits; roll out 
thin; spread lightly with butter, and roll up. Put it into 
pans, let rise, and bake light brown. The secret is in the 
manner of preparing, but it is a great success when well 
done. 



SALLY LUNN. 



MRS. GEX. STONEMAN. 



Rub a piece of butter the size of an egg into a quart of 
flour; add one tumbler of milk, two eggs, three tablespoon- 
fuls of sugar, two tablespooni'uls of cream of tartar, one 
teaspoonful of soda, and half a teaspoonful of salt. To be 
eaten warm, with butter. 



BUCKWHEAT BREAD. 



MRS. M. G. MOORE. 



Two coffee cupfuls of new buttermilk, one egg, well 
beaten, two tablespoonfuls of rich cream, two tablespoonfuls 
of molasses, a little salt, one teaspoonful of salaratus, and 
buckwheat enough to thicken the same as for corn bread. 
Bake one-half hour. 



BROWN BREAD. 



MRS. JENNIE STAFFORD, SANTA ANA. 

Three cupfuls of sour milk, one teaspoonful of soda, one 
cupful of syrup, two cupfuls of corn meal, two cupfuls of 
Graham flour, and one cupful of wheat flour. Steam two 
and a half hours. 



MARYLAND BISCUITS. 



ANONYMOUS. 



One quart of the best flour, a bit of lard (fresh) the 
size of an egg, a little salt, a quarter of a teaspoonful of 



30 LOS ANGELES COOKERY. 

cream of tartar, thoroughly mixed with the flour. Make a 
stiff dough by mixing with ice-water; knead until soft; mold 
by hand, and bake immediately in a moderately hot oven. 

*/") . .. _ 



MARY A. LIXDLEY. 

Take three cupfuls of sour milk and one of molasses, 
three cupfuls of Graham flour and one of corn meal. Add 
one heaping teaspoonful of soda, and beat well together. 
Steam three hours. 



SQUASH BISCUITS. 

MISS MARY MCLELLAX. 

Two cups of sifted squash, one tablespoonful of butter, 
one of lard, two large spoonfuls of sugar, two cups of milk, 
flour enough to roll out, and one cup of yeast. Boil the 
milk, sugar, butter, and lard together; let it cool, and mix 
with the squash, flour, and yeast. Let it rise over night, 
and make into biscuit in the morning. 



BROWN BREAD. 

MRS. DB. HAZLETON. 

Two cups of sour milk, two large spoonfuls of molasses, 
and one teaspoonful of soda, dissolved in half cup of water. 
Stir in an equal quantity of corn and Graham meal until it 
makes a stiff batter; put it in a two-quart tapering pail; 
cover tight, and boil in a kettle of water an hour; then take 
out, take off the cover, and bake slowly one hour. 



TEA BISCUITS ENGLISH. 



ANONYMOUS. 

Four tumblers of sifted flour, one-fourth pound of good 
butter, one teaspoonful of soda, two of cream of tartar, one 
dessert-spoonful of baking powder, and one and a half turn- 



LOS ANGELES COOKERY. 91 

biers of milk. Mix the butter, cream of tartar, and baking 
powder well into the flour; then add the milk, with the soda 
dissolved in it, and mix quickly with a spoon. Knead well 
on a board; roll an inch thick, and cut with a sharp cutter. 
Bake twenty or twenty-five minutes in a quick oven. 



CREAM OF TARTAR BISCUITS. 



MRS. M1LLIKEN. 

One quart of flour, three heaping teaspoonfuls of pure 
cream of tartar, a piece of butter two-thirds the size of an 
egg, well worked in flour, one heaping teaspoonful of Bab- 
bit's salaratus, dissolved in sweet milk. Make the dough as 
soft as can be kneaded conveniently; roll a 'half inch thick, 
cut in biscuits, and bake in a quick oven. 



STRAWBERRY SHORT-CAKE. 

MISS MART MCLELLAX. 

One quart of flour, sifted dry, with two large teaspoon- 
fuls of baking powder, a little salt, and one tablespoonful of 
white sugar. Add three tablespoonfuls of butter, and milk 
enough to form a soft dough. Bake in a round tin, and 
when partially cooled, split, spread with butter, and cover 
with a layer of strawberries, well sprinkled with white sugar. 
Lay the other half on top, and spread in the same way. 



PARKER HOUSE ROLLS. 



MRS. L. S. E. LOXGSTREKT. 



Two quarts of flour, two tablespoonfuls of butter, one 
teaspoonful of salt, and half teacupful of sugar; mix well 
through the flour with your hands; make a hole in the mid- 
dle of the flour and pour in a pint of scalded milk; after it 
cools put in a small cup of yeast, and set to rise at nine 
o'clock. About noon stir it well with a spoon; let rise 
again, and at four roll them out a quarter of an inch thick; 
cut round and fold over like an envelope, with a small piece 



92 LOS ANGELES COOKERY. 

of butter between; let rise again for an hour, and bake in a 
quick oven. 

.._ r\* _ _^ ___ 

CORN MEAL PANCAKES. 

L. C. GOODWIN. 

One pint of sour milk, a teaspoonful of soda, one cup- 
ful of flour and one of meal, a little salt, and two eggs, 
white and yolks well beaten separately, and whites added 
last. 



RICE CAKES. 



MISS MARY MCLELLAX. 

To one teacupful of cold boiled rice put one and one- 
half cupfuls of flour, two eggs, one tablespoonful of corn- 
starch, one teaspoonful of salt, two tablespoonfuls of sugar, 
and sour milk enough to make a batter. Mix smoothly, and 
add one teaspoonful of soda and a little melted, butter. 
Cook as griddle cakes. 



SARATOGA ROLLS. 



MRS. GEORGE CLARK. 

One quart of water, two ounces of butter, one teacup- 
ful of home-made yeast, and a little salt. Mix in the even- 
ing, as thick as you can stir with a spoon; put it in a warm 
place. Just before going to bed, knead it up, and cover till 
morning. An hour before breakfast make it into small 
buns, put them in pans, and let stand until light. Bake fif- 
teen or twenty minutes in a hot oven. 



MRS. SMITH'S HOT MUFFINS. 



MRS. I. S. MAYO. 



One quart of warm milk, two eggs, well beaten, a piece 
of butter tne size of an egg, one teacupful of yeast, a little 
salt, and enough flour to make a batter as thick as for pan- 



LOS ANGELES COOKERY. 93 

cakes. Let it rise till morning; then add a small teaspoon- 
ful of soda, dissolved in a little hot water. Have your gem- 
irons quite hot, and put a spoonful in each. Bake, in a 
quick oven. Splendid! 



GRAHAM GEMS. 



MISS MARY MCLELLAX. 



One and a half pints of Graham flour and three tea- 
spoonfuls of baking-powder, well mixed. Rub in one table- 
spoonful of butter; add salt, one beaten egg, and one table- 
spoonful of sugar. Stir all to a batter with sweet milk; 
drop into hot gem-pans and bake in a quick oven. 



POTATO PANCAKES. 



MRS. H. K. s. O'MSLVKNY. 

Grate some raw potatoes; let the water drain off a lit- 
tle; then add three well-beaten eggs to a pint of potatoes, 
some salt, and a spoonful of flour. Fry slowly in hot lard. 



MAG. MADDIN'S INDIAN CAKE. 

MRS. I. S. MAYO. 

Two cupfuls of flour, one cupful of corn meal, one egg, 
two tablespoonfuls of sugar, and half a teaspoonful of salt; 
stir up with sour milk, in which has been dissolved a tea- 
spoonful of soda. Make a thin batter, and bake in a sheet. 



MUFFINS. 



MRS. S. C. HUBBELL. 



Two eggs, a pint of flour, one teacupful of milk or 
cream, a piece of butter half the size of an egg, a little salt, 
a heaping tablespoonful of sugar, and one teaspoonful of 
baking powder. Mix the baking powder and salt in the 
flour. Beat the eggs; add to the yolks, first, the milk and 



94 LOS ANGELES COOKERY. 

sugar, then the butter (melted), then the flour, and then the 
whites. Beat well after it is all mixed, and bake in a hot 
oven. 

___^_^__ * C\ * _ _ 

CORN BREAD. 



MBS. MARY BACKMAN. 



One pint of sifted corn meal, half cup of sifted flour, 
one tablespoonful of lard, rubbed into the flour, half cup of 
milk, ona egg, one teaspoonful of salt, and one teaspoonful 
of baking powder. 



MUFFINS. 



MISS MARY MCLELLAN. 



Two and a half cupfuls of flour, a piece of butter the 
size of an egg, one tablespoonful of sugar, two eggs, salt, 
one and a half cupfuls of milk, and one cupful of yeast. 
Let it stand to rise over night, and do not stir in the morn- 
ing, but dip out into muffin rings or gem pans. 



MARYLAND BISCUIT. 



MRS. M. E. J. 

One quart of flour, a teaspoonful of salt, one table- 
spoonful of lard, and a half pint of lukewarm water. Make 
the dough very stiff, working the lard and salt in thoroughly 
before the water is added. Beat or knead till the dough is 
soft, and blisters. Prick each biscuit with a fork before 
baking. 



CORN CRUST. 



MRS. I. S. MAYO. 

One pint of corn meal, one pint of boiling water, one 
tablespoonful of sugar, half teaspoonful of salt, and one egg. 
Pour the boiling water on the meal, sugar, and salt; mix 



LOS ANGELES COOKER Y. 95 

well, stir in the beaten egg:, spread thin in a dripping-pan, 
smooth over with a knife, dipped in cold water, and score it. 
Bake in a quick oven. 



EICE WAFFLES. 



MRS. M. E. J. 



One and a half cupfuls of boiled rice and two cupfuls 
of flour. Add salt, and mix with milk to a thick batter. 
Beat separately two eggs, and add last. 



SQUASH BREAKFAST CAKE. 



One pint of sifted squash, one egg, a small cup of 
sugar, a piece of butter the size of an egg, two tablespoon- 
fuls of yeast, and enough flour to mold up. Set to rise over 
night. In the morning dissolve a teaspoon ful of soda in a 
little water and put into the mixture; mold, and cut into 
biscuit. Let them rise, and bake fifteen minutes. 



YEAST-POWDER BISCUIT. 



MKS. L. M. THOMPSON. 

Mix well with one quart of flour one teaspoonful of 
yeast powder and a little salt; add a small piece of butter 
or lard and a cupful of sweet milk, stirred in with a spoon. 
Work the dough as little as possible; roll out, and bake in 
a quick oven. 

._ r\ .. _. 

FRENCH ROLLS. 



MRS. M. B. J. 

Sift a pound of flour; rub in two ounces of butter and 
a little salt; mix in the beaten whites of three eggs and a 
tablespoonful of strong yeast; add enough milk for a stiff 
dough; cover and set before the fire to rise. Put it on a 



96 LOS ANGELES COOKERY. 

bread board, divide it into rolls, lay in a floured pan, and 
bake in a quick oven about ten minutes. 



CORN BREAD. 

MBS. H. K. s. O'MELVENY. 

Turn one pint of boiling water or milk on as much 
corn meal; when lukewarm, add one spoonful of lard or but- 
ter, one of sugar, two eggs, well beaten, three tablespoon- 
fuls of flour, and one teaspoonful of baking powder. If too 
stiff, add a little cold milk. 



CORN BUNS. 



MRS. GEN. STONEMAN. 



One quart of milk, three eggs, and a small piece of but- 
ter. Stir in meal for a batter just thick enough to drop 
from a spoon. Bake in a hot oven. 



FLAP-JACKS. 



MRS. T. S. STANWAY. 



Take two pounds of wheat flour and a teaspoonful of 
salt; make a pretty thick batter with warm water; add two 
good tablespoonfuls of brewers' yeast. Set to rise over 
night; bake the same as buckwheat cakes. Very nice. 



FRENCH ROLLS. 



MRS. GEN. STONEMAN. 

One pint of warm water, two tablespoonfuls of white 
sugar, one-half cupful of lard, and two-thirds of a cupful of 
hop-potato yeast. First put the lard into the warm water; 
then add the salt, sugar, and yeast. Knead up hard with 
flour, and put to rise. The next morning knead it an hour, 
or chop with a chopping-knife instead of an hour's knead- 
ing. Cut out with a large-sized biscuit-cutter; wet the top 



LOS ANGELES COOKERY. 97 

of each biscuit with a little melted butter, and turn over on 
one side. Do not put them close together. You can bake 
what you need and set the rest away; it will keep a long 
time. 



MUFFINS. 

MRS. DR. FRENCH. 

Warm a quart of milk, and melt in it a quarter of a 
pound of the best butter, cut into bits. Beat four eggs un- 
til very light, and stir into the milk. When quite cold, by 
degrees stir in enough sifted flour to malce a batter as thick 
as you can well stir. Add at least three tablespoonfuls of 
bakers' yeast. Set to rise in a warm place. Bake in muffin 
rings. 

- :o: - 

PHILADELPHIA MUFFINS. 



RELIABLE. 

One quart of milk, three eggs, one-fourth pound of lard, 
the same of butter, and a little salt. Put the butter, lard, 
and salt in the milk, stand it on the range, and let it get just 
warm; then stir in enough sifted flour to make a stiff bat- 
ter. Beat it well; then put in a small teacupful of yeast, 
and set it to rise. If you want them for tea, set them to 
rise about an hour. Use tin rings. Do not fill them quite 
full. They require but a few moments to bake. The milk 
must be only lukewarm. 

BREAD. 



MRS. R. N. C. WILSON. 

Boil three potatoes; mash them well; add a teaspoonful of 
salt and two of sugar; also enough boiling water to make 
rather a thin batter. Let it cool, and when lukewarm, add 
one Price's yeast cake, soaked in a little water. One cake 
is sufficient for four loaves of bread. Add two and a half 
cups of flour. Let this rise until light; then stir in enough 
flour to make a sponge. Let it remain in a warm place un- 



98 LOS ANGELES COOKERY. 

til morning, when it should be kneaded at least twenty min- 
utes. Return the dough to the pan, and when light, sepa- 
rate it into four loaves and let it rise again. When light, 
let it bake an hour. 



SPANISH WAFERS. 



MRS. T. S. STAN WAT. 



Take three eggs; mix them with as much flour as will 
permit it to be rolled out as thin as possible. Cut it in 
squares with a jaging iron, and fry in hot lard. Lay them 
on a hot dish and throw sugar and cinnamon over, if liked. 



POCKET-BOOKS BRE AD. 



MRS. F. D. BOVARD. 

One quart of new milk, one cupful of yeast, one tea- 
spoonful of salt, and one tablespoonful of butter. When 
light, knead and roll out, and cut into small, oblong pieces. 
Spread one-half of each piece with a mixture of butter and 
sugar, and fold together; then lay them in a baking pan to 
raise. 



CORN CAKES. 



MRS. T. S. STANWAY. 



One cup of sweet milk, a tablespoonful of white sugar, 
one egg, two table.spoonfuls of butter, one teaspoonful of 
soda, and two of cream of tartar. Make as stiff as batter. 
They are delicious for breakfast. 



A NICE DISH FOR BREAKFAST. 



MRS. T. S. STAN WAY. 

Take some slices of bread, cutting off the crust; make 
a batter of three eggs and a pint of milk; soak the bread in 
it. Put some butter in a frying-pan, and fry the slices of 
bread to a nice brown. 



AD VERTISEMENTS. 



99 




For Real Life and Business Pursuits, at the Los Angeles 
Business College, over Post-office, Los Angeles. 



C. W. LA FEJRA, In Business Penmanship, 

Bookkeeping, Arithmetic, Correspond' nee 

J. U. VINCENT, In Ornamental Penmanship 



T. W. LA FETRA, In English Language and 

Special Branches. 
A. CUYAS, In the Spanish Language. 



For further information, apply to 

C. IF. L.A FETRA, Principal. 

MISS BENGOUGH'S ' 




No. 3 Third St., bet. Spring and Main, 

Began its Seventh Term September 3d. All the 
English Branches Taught. 



TIEIRJVES 







TUNER OF Los ANGELES, 



Will take charge of your Piano for six months, as cheap as 
consistent with good work. 

Leave orders at Lewin's Book Store, or at their News 
stand, in P. O. Building, or by mail. 



100 ADVERTISEMENTS. 




HPHE FIRST BUILDING IS NOW COMPLETED, AND THE 
JL Literary College opened its first term October 6th, 1880, with 
the following Departments : 

1. Preparatory, 2. Elective. 

3. Normal, 4. Scientific. 

5. CluBdical. 

The building is new, commodious, and pleasantly situated, on the 
University Grounds. Sufficient apparatus has been secured for the 
different Departments. 

Good arrangements will be made for Boarding. 



FACULTY. 

Rev. M. M. BOVARD, A. M., President, and Professor of Moral, Mental 

and Natural Sciences. 

Rev. F. D. BOVARD, A. M., Prof. Ancient Languages and Mathematics 
J. P. WIDNEY, A. M , M. D., Prof, of English Literature, Physiology 

and Hygiene. 
Mrs. JENNIE ALLEN BOVARD, M. S., Professor of English Language 

and History. 
Mrs. ANNIE S. AVERILL, M. S., Teacher in Mathematics and Normal 

Instruction. 

Rev. G. H. BOLLINGER, - - - Teacher in German 

Miss JOSEPHINE T. CLABKE, Teacher in French & Instrumental Music 
MADAME MAKRA, Teacher in Vocal Music 

Miss MARIA PRUNEDA, - Teacher in Spanish 

Mrs. C. P. BRADFIELD, .... Teacher in Drawing 



CALENDAR FOR I88O-8I. 



First Term Begins, - Sept. 15, 
First Term Ends, - - Dec. 23, 
Second Term Begins, - Jan. 4, 



Second Term Ends, - March 31, 
Third Term Begins, - April 4, 
Third Term Ends, - - June 24. 



TERMS OF ADMISSION. 

Students entering the Freshman Class must pass examination 
upon the Studies in the Preparatory Course, and be over fourteen 
years of age. 

For further information send for circular, or apply to 

M. M. BOVARD, A. M., PRESIDENT, 

1,08 Angeles, Cal. 



LOS ANGELES COOKERY. 101 



PUDDING DEPARTMENT, 

CHRISTMAS PUDDING. 

MRS. H. C. AUSTIX. 

Give pound of raisins, seeded and cut fine, one pound of 
currants, thoroughly washed, one pound of leaf suet, freed 
from strings and chopped fine, one pint of bread crumbs, 
half pint of sifted flour, a quarter of a pound of best sugar, 
one tablespoonful of powdered mace ad cinnamon, mixed, 
and two ground nutmegs. Beat nine eggs, yolks and whites 
separately, and add one pint of rich milk in turn with the 
bread crumbs and flour. Mix with the sugar the grated rind 
and juice of two lemons or oranges. Mix all together, stir- 
ring hard, adding the fruit after it has been dredged in flour. 
Steam six hours in a tin vessel, covered tight, in a kettle of 
boiling water. 

A most excellent sauce for this pudding may be made 
in the following manner: Two cupfuls of sugar, one cupful 
of butter, and four eggs. Cream the butter and sugar; beat 
the yolks and whites of the eggs, and add them. Lastly, 
add one cup of boiling water. Flavor to taste. 

.Q. _____^^ 

EXCELLENT RICE PUDDING. 

MRS. C. G. DU BOIS. 

One quart of milk, one-fourth cupful of raw rice, and 
salt, sugar, and flavor to taste. Add some seeded raisins, 
and bake two and a half hours in a very moderate oven. 

/-v ^^^^^^^__ 

ICED PUDDING. 

MRS. J. G. HOWARD. 

Make a custard with a pint of milk, two eggs, and six 
ounces of sugar. Beat the eggs and sugar together, stir the 



102 LOS ANGELES COOKERY. 

hot milk on them, return to the fire, and stir until they 
thicken. When cool, flavor with vanilla; freeze, and add a 
pint of whipped cream, after which stir in six ounces of 
candied fruit citron, pears, pineapple, cherries all cut in 
very small squares, and a few chopped raisins and currants. 
Repack, and set away to finish freezing. 

PLUM PUDDING. 

MISS MARY MCLELLAX. 

Soak a loaf of baker's bread in two quarts of milk un- 
til well softened. Stir in thoroughly six eggs, a little salt, 
and a tablespoonful of molasses. Have a deep earthen dish 
well buttered, and put into it a little of the mixture; then a 
layer of seeded raisins. Fill the dish with alternate layers 
of the mixture and the raisins. Bake four or five hours. 
After it is well browned, keep the oven at a moderate heat. 
Eat with a rich sauce. 



BIBIFAUX. 

MRS. E. WORKMAN. 

Three pints of cream, beaten to a froth, half pound of 
white sugar, and six sheets of Cooper's isinglass. To one 
and one-fourth pints of water add the sugar, isinglass and 
one-third of a vanilla bean. Let it simmer till thoroughly 
dissolved; remove and strain. Let cool until it begins to 
thicken; then pour gently over it the beaten cream, stirring 
briskly until all is added. 

_ *o* . . 

BATTER PUDDING. 

MRS. S. B. CASWELL. 

Six or eight eggs, one quart of milk, a small bowl of 
flour and a little salt. Bake quickly. 

A DELICIOUS PUDDING. 

MRS. ADELIA HALL. 

Tvo cupfuls of bread crumbs, one and a half cupfuls of 
white sugar, five eggs, one tablespoonful of butter, one 
quart of fresh milk, and a half cupful of jelly or jam. Rub 
the butter and one cupful of sugar together; then add the 



LOS ANGELES COOKERY. 103 

beaten yolks of the eggs; beat all to a cream; then add the 
bread crumbs, which have previously been soaked in the 
milk. Bake in a pudding dish (not filling more than two- 
thirds full) until the custard is set; then draw to the mouth 
of the oven and spread over the jelly or jam; corer this 
with a meringue made of the beaten whites of the eggs and 
half cupful of sugar. Put back in the oven, and allow to 
remain until the meringue begins to color. To be eaten 
with cold cream. 



PORTLAND PUDDING. 

MISS MARY MCLELLAN. 

Three-fourths of a cupful of rice, cooked thoroughly in 
one quart of milk. Then stir into it the yolks of four eggs, 
a small piece of butter, the grated peel of one lemon, and 
three tablespoonfuls of sugar, all well beaten together. Put 
it in a dish and cover with a meringue composed of the 
whites of four eggs, four tablespoonfuls of sugar, and the 
juice of a lemon. Brown delicately in the oven. 

SYBILS' PUDDING. 

MRS. S. B. CASWELL. 

One big bowl of grated bread, one bowl of sugar, one 
bowl of chopped suet, one bowl of currants, and nine eggs. 
Cook six hours. 



BATTER PUDDING. 

RELIABLE. 

One pint of milk, three eggs, four tablespoonfuls of 
sifted flour, and one salt-spoonful of salt. Break the eggs 
into the flour and beat well together. Bake twenty minutes. 

APPLE PUDDING. 

MISS MARY MCLKLLAN. 

One pint of flour, one teaspoon ful of baking-powder, 
one of salt, one tablespopnful of butter and water enough 
to make a soft dough. Fill a pudding dish with apples, 
pared, cored, and quartered; add a little water, and cover 
with the dough. Put the pudding on top of the stove and 



104 LOS ANGELES COOKERY. 

cover tightly with another pan. Cook one hour. Serve with 
sauce. 

__ f\ _ 

SUET PUDDING. 

MRS. J. M. STEWART. 

One cupful of syrup or half cupful of brown sugar, one 
cupful of milk, two-thirds of a cupful of suet, one cupful of 
raisins, one teaspoonful of soda, and flour enough to make a 
stiff batter. Boil steadily three hours. 

LEMON PUDDING. 

RELIABLE. 

One lemon, two ounces of butter, two ounces of sugar, 
four eggs, a large tablespoonful of corn-starch, and one pint 
of boiling milk. Beat the yolks well; add the sugar, butter, 
grated peel and juice of the lemon. Pour the boiling milk 
in last. Bake in a well buttered dish till set, or for half an 
hour. Whisk the whites of the eggs to a solid froth, adding 
a little sugar, and drop in spoonfuls over the top when the 
pudding is cold. Put in the oven for two or three minutes, 
to set. 



CHRISTMAS PUDDING. 

MRS. FLANDERS. 

One pound of bread crumbs, one pound of currants, 
one pound of raisins (seeded), one pound of suet, a quarter 
of a pound of citron, chopped fine, one cup of molasses, 
eleven eggs, two teaspoonfuls of yoast-powder,and all kinds 
of spices. Boil five hours in a cloth. 

Sauce: Two cups of sugar, one cup of butter, and 
five eggs. Beat the sugar, butter and yolks of the eggs to 
a cream; froth the whites of the eggs and beat in; then 
pour in a cup of boiling water. 

DOG IN THE BLANKET. 

MRS. M. E. J. 

Slice bread a fourth of an inch thick, cut off the crust, 
butter it, and lay it in a pudding dish; cut some slices small, 



LOS ANGELES COOKERY. 105 

to fit your dish smoothly. Place a layer of bread and one of 
jam alternately, until the dish is filled, jam on top. Make a 
custard of three eggs and a pint and a half of milk, with 
about three tablespoonfuls of sugar; pour it over the pud- 
ding and let it stand half an hour. Bake thirty minutes. 
Serve with hard sauce, colored with the juice of the jam, 
such as you have used in the pudding. 

SWEET APPLE PUDDING. 

RELIABLE. 

Take one cupful of sweet milk, one teaspoonful of salt, 
two tablespoonfuls of sugar, and two eggs, well beaten; mix 
with sufficient flour to make as stiff as for dumplings; then 
stir in two quarts of chopped apples until thoroughly mixed 
with the dough. Put into a pan greased with butter, and 
bake one hour and a half. To be eaten either hot or cold, 
with butter and sugar. Season to taste. 

| r\ r 

CHEESE 'PUDDING. 

LOUISE J. 

Four eggs, one cupful of sugar, half a small cupful of 
grated Parmesan cheese, one cupful of flour, two teaspoonfuls 
of yeast-powder, one pinch of salt, and one quart of milk. 
Bake half an hour; serve as soon as baked, and eat with 
hard sauce. 

STEAM PUDDING. 

MRS. PARCELS. 

One coffee-cupful of sour milk, one coffee-cupful cf mo- 
lasses, half coffee-cupful of butter, four coffee-cupfuls of flour, 
one teaspoonful of soda, one teaspoonful of cinnamon, half 
teaspoonful of cloves, and one cupful of raisins. Steam three 
hours. 



PLUM PUDDING. 

MRS. H. MCLELLAN. 



Remove the top crust from a fresh loaf of baker's bread; 
break in pieces, and pour over it one quart of sweet milk. 
Let it soak a few hours; then add six eggs, a small cupful of 



106 LOS ANGELES COOKERY. 

sugar, one pound of seeded raisins, salt, and a little cinna- 
mon. Bake five or six hours. Pour a little milk on the 
pudding when baking, to prevent its being too stiff. 

_ " O " -- 

SALEM PUDDING. 

MRS. C. G. DU BOIS. 

One cupful of suet, chopped fine, one cupful of molasses, 
one cupful of sweet milk, three and a half cupfuls of flour, 
one cupful of raisins, a little salt, one tablespoonful of 
cloves, and three teaspoonfuls of yeast-powder. Steam three 
hours. 



LEMON CHEESE-CAKES. 

RELIABLE. 



A quarter of a pound of butter, three-fourths of a pound 
of lump sugar, powdered, six eggs, well beaten, the grated 
rind of two lemons, and the juice of three lemons. Cook 
in a brass or enameled pan till the sugar is dissolved and 
the mixture becomes of the thickness of honey. 



COTTAGE PUDDING. 

MBS. C. G. DU BOIS. 



One cup of sugar, one cup of sweet milk, a third of a 
cup of melted butter, one egg, two small teaspoonfuls of 
cream of tartar, one teaspoonful of soda, and one pint of 
sifted flour. Pake three-quarters of an hour. To be eaten 
with sauce. 



QUEEN OF PLUM PUDDINGS. 

MRS. HAMILTON. 

One pound of butter, one pound of suet, freed from 
strings and chopped fine, one pound of sugar, two and a 
half pounds of flour, two pounds of raisins, seeded, chopped 
and dredged with flour, two pounds of currants, a quarter 
of a pound of citron, chopped fine, twelve eggs, whites and 
yolks beaten separately, one pint of milk, one cup of boiled- 
down cider, half ounce of cloves, half ounce of mace, and 
two grated nutmegs. Cream the butter and sugar; beat in 
the yolka when you have whipped them smooth and light; 



LOS ANGELES COOKERY. 107 

next put in the milk, then the flour, alternately with the 
beaten whites, the cider and spices, and lastly the fruit, 
well dredged with flour. Mix all thoroughly; wring out 
your pudding cloth in hot water; flour well inside, pour in 
the mixture, and boil five hours. 



QUICK BAKED PUDDING. 

MRS. C. G. DU BOIS. 

Five tablespoonfuls of flour, five well-beaten eggs, salt, 
five tablespoonfuls of cold milk. Mix well, and turn into 
one quart of boiling milk. Bake fifteen or twenty minutes. 
Eat with sauce. 



DANDY PUDDING. 

MRS. BARROWS. 

One quart of milk, boiled in water. Mix two spoonfuls 
of corn-starch with the yolks of four eggs and half cup of 
sugar; pour into the boiling milk; stir quickly, and take off 
at once. Beat the whites of the eggs with half cup of sugar, 
and spread over the pudding when cool. Put it in the oven 
and brown. Flavor with essence of lemon. To be eaten 
cold. 



BAKED APPLE DUMPLINGS. 

MRS. C. G. DU BOIS. 

Take a half pint of raised dough, work into it a large 
spoonful of shortening, roll out, fold it, and set aside to 
lighten. When well raised, divide it into six parts and roll 
them out thin. Have ready six good-sized, tart apples, 
cored, and the holes filled with sugar and butter; close the 
dough neatly over the apples, and turn the folded side down 
in a deep dish. Let them stand till light; then sprinkle 
sugar, small pieces of butter, and any spice you like, be- 
twen the apples. Pour one teacupful of water over them, 
and bake three-fourths of an hour. 



ORANGE PUDDING. 

MRS. M. E. J. 



Enough oranges for four cups of juice, which must be 
put on to boil. Grate the peel of four oranges and squeeze 



108 LOS ANGELES COOKERY. 

the juice into a baking dish; add to this one and a half cups 
of sugar, the yolks of four eggs, well beaten, one teaspoon- 
ful of butter, eight tablespoonfuls of corn- starch, mixed in a 
little cold water or orange juice. Stir all well together, and 
set the pudding dish OB the stove to warm. Add the boil- 
ing juice, and stir (with the dish still on the stove) until it is 
thickened. Bake about half an hour. Make a meringue of 
the four whites, well thickened with powdered sugar, and 
put on top of the pudding, returning it to the oven long 
enough to make it a very light brown. 

TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

MRS. C. G. DU BOIS. 

Three coffee-cupfuls of tapioca, and nine coffee-cupfuls 
of water (cold). Let it soak one night. Add the rind of two 
lemons and the juice of one, two coffee-cupfuls of sugar, and 
soft, tart apples. Pour the tapioca over the apples and 
bake. Cream sauce. 



FOAM PUDDING. 

MRS. M. G. MOORE. 

One teaspoonful of boiled rice, salted, three eggs, one 
cupful sugar. Spread the rice in the pudding-pan; grate a 
little nutmeg over it; beat the whites of the eggs stiff, and 
spread over the rice, then beat the yolks and sugar together 
and spread on top. Bake twenty minutes in a moderate 
oven. 



BOILED BATTER PUDDING. 

SAN GABRIEL. 

Three tablespoonfuls of flour, three eggs, whites and 
yolks beaten separately, and milk enough to make it like a 
thin cream. Boil one hour. Take it up as soon as done- 
Serve with wine sauce. 



PLAIN BATTER PUDDING. 

MRS. COL. GEORGE SMITH. 

Six eggs, three tablespoonfuls of sifted flour (the spoons 
must be heaped), and two cupfuls mik. Beat the eggs 



LOS ANGELES COOKERY. 109 

separately, and very light; mix the milk and flour, then add 
the yolks, lastly the whites; after which, bake immediately 
in a moderately hot oven. Serve hot, and eat with stirred 
butter and sugar sauce. 



APPLE SAGO PUDDING. 

MRS. C. G. DU BOIS. 

One cupful of sago in six cupfuls of water; put near the 
stove to swell. In the meantime stew ten or twelve tart 
apples; mix with the swelled sago, and bake three- quarters 
of an hour. Eat with cream and sugar. 

r\ . 

BAKED APPLE DUMPLING. 

MRS. M. G. MOORE. 

Take one-half pint raised dough, work into it a large 
spoonful of shortening; roll out, fold it, and set aside to 
lighten. When well raised, cut into six pieces, roll out thin; 
have ready six good sized apples, pared and cored, the holes 
filled with sugar and butter. Close the dough neatly over 
the apples, and turn that side down in a deep dish. Let 
it stand one hour to lighten, then sprinkle sugar, spice (any 
kind you prefer), and small pieces of butter, over and be- 
tween the apples, and pour over all a teacupful of water. 
Bake an hour. 

SAUCE FOR PUDDINGS. 

MRS. M. E. HOYT. 

One large cupful of sugar and half cupful of butter, 
beat together till light. Break into the mixture the yolk ot 
one egg and the whites of two, and beat well. Flavor to 
taste, and place on the fire. Stir until it smokes, but do not 
let it boil. 

SNOW PUDDING. 

MRS. E. C. STARIN. 

One box of gelatine, cover with cold water and let soak 
half an hour; add a pint of boiling water, stir until dissolved, 
set away to cool. When cool, add the whites of four eggs 



110 LOS ANGELES COOKERY. 

beaten to solid froth, with the juice of two lemons, and two 
cups of sugar; beat all well together, and let stand until a 
stiff jelly. For a sauce, take yolks of the four eggs, and a 
pint of boiling milk, sweetened and flavored to taste; boil 
to a custard. 

LEMON PUDDING. 

MRS. C. G. DU BOIS. 

Half pound of fine bread crumbs, a quarter of a pound 
of well-chopped suet, a quarter of a pound of sifted sugar, 
the rind of two lemons and the juice of one, 01 the juice of 
three lemons (juice must be first strained), two eggs, thor- 
oughly beaten^ and a little salt. Mix all well together and 
steam one hour. Eat with sauce. 



STEAMED PUDDING. 

MRS. L. CKEEK. 

One cupful of sugar, one cupful of milk, one-half cup- 
ful of currants, five cupfuls of flour, two eggs, well beaten, 
and two teaspoonfuls of baking powder. Steam an hour 
and a half. 



CORN MEAL PUDDING. 

MRS. S. YARNELL. 

One cupful of corn meal, stirred in one quart of boiling 
milk, one cupful of molasses, half cupful of chopped suet, 
one chopped apple, and a pinch of salt. Put in a buttered 
pudding dish and sprinkle with cinnamon. Pour over a 
pint of cold milk. Do not stir the pudding. Bake slowly 
three hours. To be eaten with a sweet sauce. 

:o : 

KATY-DID PUDDING. 

MRS. M. G. MOORE. 

One quart of boiling water, three tablespoonfuls of 
corn-starch (wet in a little cold water), a pinch of salt, and 
the whites of three eggs. Stir the corn-starch into the boiling 
water, and let boil about four minutes, then stir into it the 
stiff whites do not let the eggs boil. Turn into molds until 
cold, then pour over it the following cold custard: One 



LOS ANGELES COOKERY. Ill 

quart boiling 1 milk, yolks of three eggs, one tablespoonful of 
corn-starch (wet in a little cold milk), sugar and salt to taste. 
Let the milk boil, stir into it the wet starch, eggs and sugar; 
as it cools, flavor with lemon. 



BLACK PUDDING. 

MRS. E. C. STARIN. 

One cupful suet, one cupful molasses, one cupful milk 
(sweet), three and a half cupfuls flour, one cupful fruit, one 
teaspoonful soda. Steam two hours. 

QUEEN OF PUDDINGS. 

MRS. JOHN FOY, SAN BERNARDINO. 

Beat together the yolks of four eggs, two tablespoonfuls 
of melted butter, one cupful of sugar, one quart of milk, 
and one pint of bread-crumbs; flavor with lemon extract, 
and bake in a deep dish. When done, spread over the top 
a layer of tart jelly. Beat the whites of four eggs, add a 
tablespoonful of powdered sugar, and spread over the jelly. 
Brown slightly in the oven. 

.Q 

PLAIN PUDDING. 

MRS. R. M. W'IDNEY. 

Three tablespoonfuls of flour, three tablespoonfuls of 
cold milk, three eggs, and one and a half pints of scalded 
milk. Bake in the oven, and serve with a sauce of butter 
and sugar, flavored with vanilla, or any sauce preferred. 

:o: 

COTTAGE PUDDING. 

MRS. E. C. STARIN. 

One cupful sugar, one cupful milk, one egg, one pint 
sifted flour, baking powder, two teaspoonfuls. 



112 



AD VERTISEMENTS. 



IMPORTER OP 



Practical Watch and Clock Repairer and Manufacturing Jeweler. 

Fine Gold Jewelery, Fine Watches, Clocks, Spectacles, Eye-Glasses, 
Sterling Silver, and Silver Plated Ware, 

44 Stain Street, ... - l^on Angeles, Cat. 



GO TO THE CHEAP MILLINERY STORE, 

129 Spring St., Second door from Turn Verein Hall, 



Ribbons of all Colors and Kinds. Hats and Bonnets Done over in 
New Shapes. REMEMBER THE PLACE, 

No. 129 Spring Street, Second Door from Turn Verein Hall. 

Orders from the Country Promptly and Carefully Filled. 

UR New Stock of Clothing, Furnish- 
ing Goods, Hats & Caps, Boots and 
Shoes, etc.. Imported from the East 
is now ready for sale. Call and examine them. 

IXL AUCTION CO., 

73 Main St., Downey Block, 

LOS ANGELES, CAL. 




XEW LOS AXGELE3 STREET. 
Everything in the Line of Ornamental 




L. J. STENGEL. 



AD VERTISEMENTS. 



113 



S. SPEEDY. SISSON, WALLACE & CO. >f. DODS WORTH. 

Los ANGELES PACKING Co,, 

Wos. 300 to 310 HOFF STREET, 



Q$ 3JC@EES. C&L. 

MANUFACTURERS AND DEALERS IN 



BACON AND HAMS, 

LARD IN TIERCES, CANS AND CADDIES. 

SMOKED AND PICKLED TONGUES. 



M. DODSWORTH, 



BUSINESS MANAGER. 



LADIES, ATTENTION 




The Cheapest and 
Best Selected Stock 
of Ladies', Misses' & 
Children's SHOES 
ever seen in Los An- 
geles. French Kid 
Goods a Specialty. 
Custom Work 25 per 
cent Cheaper than 
any Other House in 
the City. Perfect Fit. 
Satisfaction Guaranteed. 



Shoes Bought of Us Repaired Free of Charge. 



& SO Spring St., Opposite JP. O, 



114 LOS ANGELES COOKERY. 



PIE DEPARTMENT, 



LEMON PIE. 

MRS. JOHN FOY, SAN BERNARDINO. 

One cup of sugar, three eggs, a small lump of butter, 
a teacupful of milk, and the juice, with the grated yellow 
part of the rind, of a lemon. Roll the lemon and squeeze 
the juice over one-half the sugar; beat the yolks and mix 
together, adding the butter and milk last. Fill the pie and 
put in the oven. Beat the whites of the eggs with the other 
half of the sugar, and when the pie has baked, spread it 
over and brown in the oven. 



GERMAN PIE. 
MRS. H. K. s. O'MELVENY. 

Take a piece of bread dough (if made with milk, all 
the better), and work in some butter. Cove the bottom of a 
pie plate or dripping-pan with the dough, and let it raise a 
short time. Then peel some free-stone peaches (if small, 
halve them, if large, quarter them), and set them on the 
dough, the inside uppermost. Fill these with sugar, and 
bake. Any other fruit may be substituted if desired. This 
pie can be eaten by any dyspeptic. 

CREAM PIE. 

SAN GABRIEL. 

One cupful of flour, half cupful of sugar, two eggs, one 
teaspoonful cream of tartar, and half teaspoonful of soda. 
Bake in shallow round pans. 

Cream for filling: One tablespoonful of cornstarch, one 
pint of milk (reserving enough to wet the cornstarch), one 



LOS ANGELES COOKERY. 115 

tablespoonful of sugar, and two eggs, using the whites for 
frosting. 

.^^_ *Q _ 

LEMON TARTS. 

MRS. L. CHEEK. 

Take two large lemons, grate off the yellow rind, and 
squeeze out the juice; three large cupfuls of white sugar, 
six eggs, not separated, and butter the size of an egg. Beat 
all well together, put in a bowl, and set in boiling water. 
Let it cook to a thick custard, stirring frequently, and then 
fill the pastry. 

POTATO PIE. 

RELIABLE. 

Boil eight potatoes the size (when peeled) of an egg; 
mash fine; add four eggs, one cupful of sugar, and half cup- 
ful of butter, a little nutmeg, and one pint of milk. Bake 
with an under-crust only. 

:o: 

PEACH MERINGUE. 

MRS. GEORGE CLARK. 

Select a pie-plate that is not too deep, and after ar- 
ranging a lower crust, fill with peaches, pared, halved, and 
stoned; sprinkle sugar over them, and bake until done. 
When cool, spread over it the whites of two eggs, beaten 
very light; flavor with vanilla. Sprinkle over the top three 
tablespoon fuls of fine sugar, and brown in the oven for a 
few minutes. 



PUFF PASTE. 

MRS. JOHN SMITH. 

Two pounds of finely sifted flour, two pounds of butter; 
put the flour on a marble slab, make a hole in the pile, and 
add the yolks of four eggs. Work the butter in a napkin 
until quite free from water; two pinches of salt and juice of 
half a lemon. Cut up in small pieces one quarter of the 
butter, and work all this into the paste of eggs and flour, 
adding as much tepid water as will make the paste smooth. 



116 LOS AXGELES COOKERY. 

Beat one-quarter of the remainder of the butter to an inch 
in thickness; roll out the paste to four times the size; lay 
the butter on the center of the paste, and cover up on each 
side; roll ont to three times its original size; repeat twice, 
putting in a part of the butter each time. Cover for half 
an hour, when it is ready for use. 



LEMON PIE, EXTRA NICE. 

MRS. S. SPEEDY. 

Four lemons, one cupful water, one cupful sugar, two 
tablespoonfuls flour, three eggs, two tablespoonfuls sugar. 
Squeeze out the juice, add the yolks of three eggs, two 
tablespoonfuls of flour, one cupful sugar; work this mass in 
a smooth paste, then add a cupful of boiling water; set it 
in some boil'ng water until it cooks. Bake your crust, then 
pour in the sauce; beat the whites of three eggs to a stiff 
froth, adding two tablespoonfuis of sugar; spread this on 
your pies; set in the oven. Bake a light brown. This 
quantity is enough for two pies. 

L _, __ r\ __ . ___ 

GOOD PIE CRUST. 

MRS. J. M. CAMPBELL. 

One quart flour, one teaspoonful baking powder; put 
this through a sieve: four tablespoonfuls lard, one teaspooc- 
ful salt. Rub all into the flour; mix with one teacupful of 
water. 



PASTRY. 

MRS/ADELIA HALL. 



A well-beaten egg, rubbed with a piece of cloth over 
the lower crust of pies will prevent the juice from soaking 
through it. Puff-paste should be made of sweet, solid 
butter. The juice of fruit pies, if thickened with a little 
corn-starch, will not boil over. 



10: 

CREAM PIES. 



MISS MARY MCLELLAX. 

Three eggs, one cupful of white sugar, one tablespoon- 
ful of water, one and a half teaspoonfuls of baking-powder, 



LOS ANGELES COOKERY. 117 

and one and a half cupfuls of flour. Bake in two tins. 
Boil one pint of milk and, stir into it two eggs, one cupful 
of sugar, and one scant cupful of flour. Let it cook until 
sufficiently thick; then add a small piece of butter and the 
grated peel of a fresh lemon. Split the cakes and fill with 
the cream. 

WASHINGTON PIE. 

MRS. S. SPEEDY. 

Four eggs, one cupful of sugar, one of flour, a lump of 
butter the size of an egg, one teaspoonful of soda, and two 
teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar, dissolved in two tablespoon- 
fuls of milk. 

The sauce: One large tart apple, pared and grated, the 
juice of one orange, one cupful of sugar, and one egg. Stir 
together; set the dish in boiling water long enough to cook 
the egg; bake, and spread the sauce the same as on jelly 
cake. 



PLAIN LEMON PIE. 

MRS. Dfc. HAZLETINE. 

While your pie-crust shells are baking prepare the fol- 
lowing filling: Grate the yellow rind of one lemon and 
squeeze out the juice; put in one cupful of sugar and the 
yolk of one egg, and stir well together. Upon this pour a 
large cupful of cold water, into which has been stirred a 
tablespoonful of corn-starch. Put all in a saucepan, and 
stir until it is cooked into a clear jelly. The crust being 
baked, fill them, and from the white of the egg make a me- 
ringue to softly cover it. Put in the oven a few minutes, 
until a delicate brown. 



SQUASH PIE. 

MRS. R. M. WIDNET. 

One quart of baked squash (Hubbard, if possible), 
pressed through a sieve, eight eggs, whites and yolks beaten 
separately, two quarts of milk, two cupfuls of white or very 
light brown sugar, one teaspoonful of ginger, half teaspoon- 
ful of nutmeg, half teaspoonful of cinnamon, and one tea- 



118 LOS ANGELES COOKERY. 

spoonful of salt. Beat all together, and bake in under- 
crust, without cover. Under-crust first to be vubbed with 
a well beaten egg. 

APPLE CUSTARD PIE. 

MRS. S. SPEEDY. 

Pare sour apples and stew until soft, with very little 
water; then rub them through a colander. Beat three eggs 
for each pie to be baked, and put in at the rate of one cupful 
of butter and one of sugar for three pies. Season with nut- 
meg. A frosting, put upon them as in lemon pie and re- 
turned for a few moments to the oven, would at least im- 
prove their appearance. 

LEMON PIE. 

MRS. ADELIA HALL. 

Grate the rind of two lemons; beat together the rind, 
juice, tn tablespoonfuls of loaf sugar, and the yolks of four 
eggs, until very light; add two tablespoonfuls of water; 
line a large dish, and fill with the mixture. Bake until the 
paste is done. Beat the whites stiff, and stir into them two 
tablespoonfuls (of sugar; spread over the top, and bake a 
light brown. 



CRUST FOR PUMPKIN PIE. 

MRS. S. SPEEDY. 

Take your pie-dish and butter the tin well; then take 
some dry corn meal and shake it around in the buttered tin; 
empty it out, leaving only what sticks to the tin. Have 
your pumpkin ready, the same as for anypie;-pour it in 
your tin; set it in the oven and bake it. You will be sur- 
prised to see what a nice crust it will form. 



MINCE-MEAT. 

MRS. HAMILTON. 

Six pounds of fresh beef, boiled tender, and chopped 
fine when cold; one pound of beef suet, chopped fine, five 
pounds of apples, chopped fine, two pounds seeded raisins, 
two pounds of currants, half pound of citron, two table 






LOS ANGELES COOKERY. 119 

spoonfuls of cinnamon, one of cloves, one of nutmeg, one 
of allspice, one of salt, three pounds of brewn sugar, three 
pints of sweet cider, boiled as thick as syrup, and the liquor 
the meat is boiled in. When you make pies, add a little 
more apple and boiled-down cider. 

:o : 

LEMON PIE. 

MRS. H. C. AUSTIN. 

Three-fourths of a cupful of sugar, one tablespoonful 
of butter, the yolks of three eggs, one tablespoonful of flour 
in two-thirds of a cupful of water, and half the grated rind and 
all the juice of one lemon. Beat the whites of the three 
eggs very light, with a tablespoonful of sugar to each egg, 
for a meringue to put on the pie when baked. Flavor the 
meringue with lemon juice; spread it over the pie when 
baked, and put it back in the oven till it is slightly browned. 



LEMON CREAM PIE. 

MRS. ADELIA HALL. 

The juice and rind of one lemon, one cup of sugar, the 
yolks of two eggs, three tablespoonfuls silted flour; milk to 
fill the plate. Bake until nearly done; take from the oven, 
pour over it the whites of two eggs, and two tablespoonfuls 
of powdered sugar, beaten to a stiff froth. Put back in the 
oven, and brown lightly. 




120 LOS ANGELES COOKERY. 



CUSTARDS, CREAMS, FLOATS, SAUCES, 



VELVET CREAM. 

MRS. H. MCLELLAN. 

One-half box of gelatine in one quart of milk, with the 
yolks of three eggs; place on the stove and stir until it 
comes to a soft custard. When oold, beat the whites of the 
eggs to a stiff froth; add six tablespoonfuls of white sugar 
and one of vanilla flavoring. 

CITRON 'CUSTARD. 

MRS. JOHN SMITH. 

Six eggs, one cupful of butter, and two cupfuls of gran- 
ulated sugar. Separate the eggs and beat thoroughly the 
yolks, and add the whites, which should be whipped to a stiff 
froth. Wash the butter free from salt, and cream it with 
the sugar; then add to the eggs; mix thoroughly, and pour 
into the crust. This will make two custards. Flavor with 
very little lemon. 

.Q. __ 

STRAWBERRY CUSTARD. 

MRS. ANNA OGIKR. 

Make a nice boiled custard of a quart of milk and five 
eggs, properly seasoned; boil it till it thickens; take it off 
the fire and put in the flavoring. Take a gill of sugar and 
a pint of ripe strawberries; crush them together and pass 
them through a fine strainer. Take the whites of four of 
the eggs, and while beating them to a stiff froth, add a gill 
of sugar, little at a time. Then to the sugar and eggs add 
the sweetened strawberry juice, beating all the while to 
make it stiff. This makes a beautiful pink float, which is to 



LOS ANGELES COOKERY. 121 

be placed on top of the custard. The juice of canned straw- 
berries may be used. 



COFFEE CUSTARD. 

MRS. C. G. DUBOIS. 

For six cups measure out four cupfuls of milk; put it 
in a basin, -with one cupful of very strong coffee and one 
ounce powdered white sugar, and the yolks of five eggs; mix 
well and strain. Fill the cups with the mixture, skim off all 
froth from the surface, put them in a flat stew-pan of water, 
with live coals on its cover, or a very slow fire for fifteen 
minutes. The water should only bubble slightly; when set, 
let the cups cool in the water. 

.._- * o * L 

COCOANUT CUSTARD. 

MRS. COL. SMITH. 

One-half cupful of butter, one cupful of powdered sugar, 
four well-beaten eggs, one cupful of grated cocoanut and a 
quart of milk; mix butter and sugar together, and then add 
the eggs and cocoanut, and lastly the milk. Bake in a 
lower crust. 



ORANGE SOUFFLE. 

MRS. S. YARNELL. 

Make a rich boiled custard of one quart of milk and the 
yolks of six eggs (reserving the whites for frosting); sweeten 
to taste; when cool, pour the juice of four or five oranges, 
sprinkled with sugar and the grated rind of two; cover with 
frosting; set in a pan of cold water, and set in the oven until 
a nice brown; to be eaten cold. 



BAVARIAN CREAM. 

lilRS. J. G. EASTMAN. 

Whip one pint of cream to a stiff froth. Boil one pint of 
rich milk with a vanilla bean and two tablespoonfuls of sugar 
until it is well flavored; then take it off the fire and add half 
a box of Cox's gelatine, soaked for an hour in half a cupful 
of water. When slightly cooled, stir in the yolks of four 
eggs, well beaten. When it has become quite cold, and be- 



122 LOS ANGELES COOKERY. 

gins to thicken, stir it until it is very smooth; then stir in 
the whipped cream until it is well mixed. Put it in a mold 
and set in a cool place to harden. It is very nice, eaten 
with whipped cream. 

._ _.. f\ - 

WHIPPED CREAM. 

MKS. C. H. BRADLEY. 

One pint of sweet cream; add one teacupful of white 
sugar, and one teaspoonful of lemon extract; beat the whole 
briskly until a stiff froth is formed. Then have ready a dish 
lined with slices of sponge-cake stale is best. Take the 
froth in spoonfuls and lay it over the cake until the dish is 
full. 



LEMON PUDDING SAUCE. 

RELIABLE. 

One lemon, the juice and half the peel grated, one heaping 
teacup of sugar, one-third of a cup of butter, one egg; beat 
well together the butter and sugar and egg, then the lemon 
and a little nutmeg; add, slowly, half a teacup of boiling 
water, but do not boil the sauce. 

MY LEMON CUSTARD. 

MRS. JOHN SMITH. 

For each pie take three eggs, one small cupful of sugar, 
a lump of butter the size of a walnut, one dessert-spoon 
level full-of corn-starch, and one lemon. Separate the eggs; 
put the yolks, sugar, butter, and corn-starch in a bowl, and 
mix well, adding the juice and grated rind of the lemon. 
Beat the whites very stiff and add to the custard, mixing all 
together, and pour into the crust and bake. 

TAPIOCA SNOW. 

MISS LILLIE MILLIKEN. 

One teacupful of tapioca, soaked in four cupfuls of 
water over night. Add one cupful of sugar, the juice of one 
lemon, or the juice of three oranges. Boil until transparent; 
stir in while cooking the whites of four eggs, beaten to a 
froth; pour into a dish to cool. When cool, put strawber- 



LOS ANGELES COOKERY. 123 

ries over the top, and serve with cream and sugar. The 
fruit may be dispensed with. 

BLANC MANGE. 

MBS. COL. GEORGE SMITH. 

Take one-half ounce of Irish moss, and cleanse in two or 
three waters. Boil it in one pint and a half of milk until 
reduced to a proper thickness; then sweeten and flavor to 
taste, and pour through a strainer into moulds. 

T _, - _ _ r\ * _ -- - 

MARYLAND FLOAT. 

MRS. H. MCLELLAN. 

Whites of four eggs, beaten very stiff; one cupful of 
powdered sugar, and add raspberry or any kind of jam, and 
beat until the fork will nearly stand alone in the mixture. 
Put in a glass bowl of soft custard, or milk, and then the 
float on top. 

FLOATING ISLAND. 

BERTHA L1NDLEY. 

One quart of milk and four eggs; beat whites and yolks 
separately; heat the milk; put in the whites and let them 
remain till cooked; then takeout. Beat four tablespoonfuls 
of sugar with the yolks; pour into the milk; boil, and pour 
into a dish; flavor with lemon; put the whites on lop, and 
set by to cool. 



TAPIOCA CREAM. 

MRS. C. H. BRADLEY. 

One cupful of pearled tapioca; boil in four cupfuls of 
water until clear; then add the juice of one lemon and two 
cupfuls of white sugar. Beat the whites of four eggs to a 
stiff froth, and stir in while hot. To be eaten cold, with 
sweetened and flavored cream. 



CHARLOTTE DE RUSSE. 

MRS. L. S. E. LONGSTREET. 

Five and a half ounces of sugar and t^o eggs (beat 
the sugar and yolks together, whites separately); one pint of 



124 LOS ANGELES COOKERY. 

sweet cream, beaten to a stiff froth, and one-third of a box 
of Cox's gelatine, dissolved in a tablespoonful of warm 
water. Add this to the sugar and eggs; flavor with vanilla; 
then add cream, and stir up quickly. 

:o: 

CHANTILLA CREAM. 

MBS. W. WIDNEY. 

To a pint of cream, beaten stiff, add the whites of two 
well-beaten eggs, a cup of sugar, and flavoring to taste. 
Cut squares of sponge-cake and lay alternately in a dish 
with the cream. 



PUDDING SAUCE. 

MRS. C. G. DU BOIS. 

Stew a dozen plums or cherries; boil one pint of cream 
and pour it over a pound of sugar; add the fruit; flavor 
with lemon. 

PUDDING SAUCE. 

MRS. S. B. CASWELL. 

Two-thirds of a cupful of butter, one cupful of sugar, 
and one tablespoonful of flour, beat to a cream. Stand it 
over the fire; stir in quickly three gills of water, and flavor. 

: o : 

TAPIOCA CREAM. 

MRS. WRIGHT, SAN BERNARDINO. 

Two large tablespoonfuls of tapioca; pour over it two tea- 
cupfuls of warm water; put it on the back of the stove and 
let soften gradually. Should the water be absorbed before 
the tapioca is soft, add a little more. After an hour or so 
pour it in a sauce-pan and add one pint of milk. When it 
begins to boil, add the yolks of three eggs, well beaten, 
sugar to taste, a tablespoonful of cold milk, to prevent the 
eggs from curdling, a little lemon flavoring, and a little salt. 
Let it boil a minute or two; then pour into a pudding dish, 
leaving an inch or two for a soft icing. For the icing, the 
whites of the eggs, beaten stiff, and pulverized sugar stirred 
in until quite stiff. Flavor with lemon; pour over the tapi- 
oca, place it in the oven, and let the icing harden very 



LOS ANGELES COOKERY. 125 

quickly, becoming a delicate brown. Then place in an ice- 
chest, or some cool place. 



LIQUID SAUCE. 

MRS. C. G. DU BOIS. 

One tablespoonful of flour, two tablespoonfuls of sugar, 
a small piece of butter, nutmeg, and boiling water. Stir 
till cooked. 



CHOCOLATE CREAM. 

MRS. GEN. STONEMAN. 

Two quarts of milk, boiled and sweetened, and three- 
quarters of a pound of chocolate, scraped, and dissolved in 
inilk. Add the milk to the chocolate, stirring constantly, 
and boil till you think it is cooked. Beat the yolks of four 
eggs and add to the chocolate. When cool, strain the whole, 
and boil to the consistency of rich custard. 

,- .^^_ * O * ' -- 

CHARLOTTE DE RUSSE. 

MRS. E. C. STARIN. 

Line a pan with lady's fingers, or nice pound-cake of 
any kind. Sweeten a quart of cream to taste and flavor 
with vanilla; then whip it. Pour a cupful of hot water on 
half an ounce of gelatine, and after it is dissolved, stir very 
hard into the whipped cream and pour into the mold. Be 
careful not to upset the cake. 

CREAM' SAUCE. 

MRS. C. G. DU BOIS. 

Boil half pint of cream; thicken it a very little; put in 
a small lump of butter, and sweeten to taste. After it gets- 
cool, add flavoring. Good with boiled rice. 

o 

CREAM A' LA VANILLA. 

MRS. GEORGE CLARK. 

One ounce of gelatine, five ounces of sugar, three pints 
of fresh milk and one teaspoonful of extract of vanilla. Af- 
ter softening the gelatine by soaking it in cold water or 



126 LOS ANGELES COOKERY. 

milk, boil it in the milk till dissolved. Pour it, boiling hot, 
over the yolks of six eggs, after they have been beaten light 
and the sugar added. Return to the kettle and stir all rap- 
idly together for about three minutes. Meanwhile have 
ready blanc mange molds, which have been dipped in cold 
water. Remove from the stove, and continue to stir the 
cream until nearly cold; then fill the molds and set them 
aside until stiff enough to turn out. 

SPANISH CREAM. 

MRS. JOHN FOY, SAN BERNARDINO. 

Put a half box of gelatine in a quart of milk; let it 
soak from forty minutes to an hour; then put on the fire 
and stir until it is fully dissolved. Add th yolks of four 
eggs and four tablespoonfuls of sugar, well beaten together. 
Stir till it comes to the boiling point. Have ready the 
whites of four eggs and four tablespoonfuls of sugar, beaten 
to a froth. Remove from the stove, and add the whites and 
sugar thus prepared, stirring until thoroughly mixed; flavor 
to taste; put in the mold, and set in a cool place. If made 
in summer, it must be put on ice, or it will not separate. 
To be eaten with cream. 



STRAWBERRY ICE CREAM. 

MRS. MILT.IKEN. 

Beat four eggs with one pound of powdered sugar, add 
three pints of milk; set the dish in a kettle of hot water, 
constantly stirring until it thickens; set it away to cool. 
When cold, add five pints of cream, and strain through thin 
muslin into freezer. Fill the freezer one-third full of ice, 
with salt sprinkled in; turn very slowly ten minutes, then 
add one-third more ice, with salt; turn faster five minutes, 
then strain in three-fourths of a quart of strawberry juice, 
beaten with one-half a pound of pondered sugar; then turn 
as fast as possible for twenty minutes, draw off the water, 
pack and let it stand four hours. For vanilla or other 
flavorings leave out the half pound of sugar. Strawberries 
can be used in place of juice, if preferred. 



LOS ANGELES COOKERY. 127 



SPANISH DEPARTMENT. 



ESTOFADO. 

MRS. J. G. DOWNEY. 

Put into a saucepan a spoonful of lard; when hot, add 
two pounds of beef ribs or mutton a chicken is best. Add 
some onions and green peppers, whole, a little garlic, cut 
very fine, black pepper, thyme, a little vinegar, a few raisins 
and olives, a few tomatoes, and four slices of toast. Cover 
close and stew slowly. 

FRICASSEED TRIPE. 

MRS. T. S. STAN WAY. 

Fry brown in butter one large onion. Cut a pound or 
more of tripe in narrow strips; put a small cupful of water 
to it; add a bit of butter the size of an egg, one large to- 
mato, with the skin removed and cut up fine, two or three 
chilis, seeded, one hard boiled egg, one tablespoonful of 
vinegar, pepper, salt, a little nutmeg, and one teaspoonful 
of sugar. Let it simmer gently for an hour, and serve hot. 

MEAT PUDDING. 

MRS. J. G. DOWNEY. 

Boil four pounds of brisket; when done, remove the 
bone and cut into slices. Have ready some prepared dry 
peppers; throw the meat into the pepper and let it simmer 
a few minutes; add salt and onion. While simmering make 
a batter of one quart of corn meal, one tablespoonful of 
butter, and two teaspoonfuls of baking-powder. Make the 
batter very stiff. Add some raisins, olives, and salt; spread 
out on a pudding-cloth, and put the meat in the center of 
the batter, reserving some of the pepper-sauce for serving. 



128 LOS ANGELES COOKERY. 

Tie the cloth securely, and boil the pudding in the liquor 
the meat was boiled in. 

To prepare the dried peppers for the pudding: Take 
two dozen dried peppers, and remove the seeds and veins; 
wash them, and put enough cold water on them to just cover 
them. Place them in a saucepan on the stove and let come 
to a boil; take from the fire; when cold drain the water off, 
but do not throw it away. Pound the soaked peppers with 
a potato-masher for about ten minutes; add about one-third 
of the water they were boiled in ; stir well, and strain through 
a colander. The strained liquor should be of the consist- 
ency of thick gravy. A little garlic may be added, if the 
taste is not disagreeable. 

ROAST GOOSE A' LA ESPANOLA. 

RELIABLE. 

Select a young and tender goose; dress and draw one 
day previous to using; season well with salt and pepper in- 
side and out; hang in a dry, cool place till next day. Pre- 
pare the following stuffing: Four ounces of bread crumbs, 
and one onion, chopped fine with gizzard, liver, and heart; 
rub well together, adding half teaspoonful of good black 
pepper, some salt and finely-powdered sage. Mix well to- 
gether with a fork, adding slowly two heaping tablespoon- 
fuls of melted butter and one egg, beaten to a froth; fill 
the inside and neck of the goose, sewing the openings to- 
gether with needle and thread; place in a deep dripping- 
pan, with two tablespoonfuls of butter rubbed all over the 
goose, and one teacupful of warm water; dredge well with 
flour and bake in a slow oven, allowing fifteen minutes for 
each pound of weight. Serve with hot apple or onion sauce. 

:o: 

TO STUFF PEPPERS. 

MRS. J. G. DOWNEY. 

Take a dozen large peppers; remove the seeds; then 
throw them upon a bed of live coals and turn continually 
until they are a light brown. When taking them up, throw 
them immediately into a bowl of cold water and remove the 
skins. Put a tablespoonful of lard or butter into a sauce- 
pan, and when hot add an onion, finely chopped; fry slight- 
ly; add a large tomato, or two if small, half teacupful of 



LOS ANGELES COOKERY. 129 

grated corn; pepper and salt to taste. Let it simmer 
fifteen minutes, stirring occasionally to prevent scorching; 
then remove from the fire; add a heaped teacupful of finely 
chopped meat or chicken (a small piece of ham s or bacon 
greatly improves its flavor); mix well, and stuff the pep- 
pers; dip into batter and fry to a nice brown. 

Another way: Prepare the peppers as in the foregoing 
recipe. Put into a saucepan a spoonful of lard. When hot 
add one onion, and fry a little; add two teacupfuls of chop- 
ped meat, two tomatoes, if small, two peppers, chopped, a 
little black pepper, thyme, and salt. Fry a few minutes, 
and then stuff the Chilis. Dip into batter and fry. 

Sauce for the peppers: Put a spoonful of butter into 
a saucepan; add a spoonful of flour, one onion, one tomato, 
one green pepper, cut small, two apples, sliced, a few raisins, 
if liked, and olives. Add enough water to make a sauce, 
and let it boil until the apples are done. Before serving the 
peppers, put them into the gravy and let it simmer just a 
moment; then serve. 

*Q* _ 

CHILI (SPANISH) ZALZA, SAUCE PIQUANT. 

RELIABLE. 

Take four large tomatoes, removisg the tops and ends, 
one large silver-skin onion, and four large-sized green Chili 
peppers, removing the seed; chop fine and drain five min- 
utes through a colander; place in a deep dish; season to 
taste, with salt, black pepper, vinegar, and best Lucca oil. 
To be served with either hot or cold meats. Olives may be 
added before serving, if acceptable. 

_____ " O " '* 

STUFFING FOR DUCKS, CHICKENS, OR OTHER 
FOWLS. 

MRS. J. G. DOWNEY. 

Take the gizzards, livers, and a piece of lean beef, and 
boil them; afterwards, when cold, chop them up fine. Take 
a small onion, two green Chilis, and a medium-sized tomato; 
cut them up fine. Then take a tablespoonful of lard or 
fresh butter and put in a frying-pan; fry for a few seconds, 
and then add the above ingredients; stir for a little while; 
then add a half teacupful of vinegar and a half cupful of 
pure water; add a little sugar and browned flour, a dozen 



130 LOS ANGELES COOKERY. 

olives, half cupful of raisins, and two hard-boiled eggs, 
chopped fine. Stir up together, and cover until the mass 
obtains consistency, when it is ready for use. 

SOPA ESPANOLA. 

RELIABLE. 

Four pounds of lean veal and one-quarter of a pound 
of best salt pork. Place the veal in a stew-pan, covering 
well with cold water, and let it simmer slowly four hours. 
In the meantime chop the pork separately in fine pieces, and 
fry a light brown; add this to the contents of the stew-pan. 
One hour before serving, add two turnips, one small-sized 
onion, one carrot and one beet, all sliced. Cook slowly forty 
minutes; then remove the meat, strain the broth through a 
colander, and place again in the stew-pan with four table- 
spoonfuls of the best oat meal. Cook twenty minutes; add 
one teacupful of cream, half a nutmeg, grated, half tea- 
spoonful of alspice, and pepper and salt to taste. Pour into 
the tureen in which place previously toasted bread, cut in 
dice at pleasure. Serve hot. 

SQUASH AND CORN. 

MRS. J. G. DOWNEY. 

Take three squashes and three ears of corn; chop the 
squashes and cut the corn from the cobs. Put into a sauce- 
pan a spoonful of lard or butter, and when very hot add an 
onion; fry a little; add the corn and squash, one tomato, one 
green pepper, cut small, and salt to taste. Cover closely, 
and stir frequently to prevent scorching. 




AD VERTISEMENTS. 



131 



QUINCY HALL CLOTHING HOUSE, 



Wholesale and Retail Dealer in 




GENTLEMEN'S FURNISHING GOODS, ETC., ETC. 

65 Main St., Los Angeles, Cal. 

?F YOU WANT A GOOD BOARDING HOUSE 
where you can have all the comforts of a home, 
go to the 



WRIGHT HOUSE, 

189 Main St., opp. Cathedral. 
J. C. WRIGHT, - - - Proprietor. 



"A PENNY SAVED is EQUAL TO Two EARNED." 




& 2liL & & JL&. JZL* M& JO-3 -iliV 

No. 38 Spring St., Strelitz Block, 

AT WHOLESALE PRICES, AXD SAVE MOXEY. 

PICTURE FRAMES MADE TO ORDER, 

Box Frames Made for Moss, Shell, Worsted, and Wax Work. 



132 



AD VERTISEMENTS. 



W, W, & S, A, WIDNEY, 






We have Constantly on Hand a Full Line of 



TOYS, BIRDS AND CAGES, 

WORSTED, AND MATERIALS FOR LADIES' FANCY WORK, 

B.^E-2- C-a-^eKI-A-O-ES, ETC. 
O3f We Guarantee to all fair Dealing and One Price. 



CLOTHING HOUSE, 

TEMPLE BLOCK, 



ROB'T SHARP. 



JOHN BLOESER. 




CARPET AND FURNITURE 

UPHOLSTERERS AND MATTRESS MAKERS, 

Mattresses Taken, Eepaired and Returned Same Day. 

ALL KINDS OF FANCY DECORATING, 



P.O.BOX796. 



l41 Main St " Los Angeles. 



LOS ANGELES COOKERY. 133 



CAKE DEPARTMENT, 

COCOANUT CAKE. 

MRS. K. M. AVIDXEY. 

One cupful of sugar, four eggs, one small half cupful 
of butter, one third cupful of sweet milk, and one pint of 
sifted flour. Bake the cake in layers. 

Custard for the cake: One-half pint of sweet milk and 
one egg. Make a custard and thicken with cocoanut; place 
between the layers quite thick. Make an icing of the white 
of one egg and half tablespoonful of powdered sugar, and 
spread over the top layer; then sprinkle on dry cocoanut. 
Do not dry the icing before sprinkling on the cocoanut. 
Use Schepp's cocoanut. 

f\ - - r 

HARRISON CAKE. 

SIRS. DR. ROSS. 

One cupful brown sugar, one cupful molasses, one cup- 
ful butter, one cupful milk, three eggs, and three cupfuls 
flour, slightly browned. Mix into the flour one teaspoonful 
yeast-powder, and into the molasses one teaspoonfui of soda. 
Add one cupful of chopped raisins, one of currants, and one 
of citron. Season with allspice, cinnamon, cloves and mace; 
teaspoonful of each. This is a delicious cake almost equal 
to the richest fruit cake. 

NUT CAKE. 

MRS. I. W. HELLMAN. 

One-half cupful butter, one-half cupful sugar, three 
eggs, two and a half cupfuls flour, one and a half teaspoon- 
fuls baking powder, one-half cupful milk, one cupful chop- 
ped walnuts. Rub the butter and sugar to a light, white 



134 LOS ANGELES COOKERY. 

cream; add the eggs, beaten a little, then the flour, sifted 
with the powder; mix with the milk and nuts into a rather 
firm batter. Bake thirty-five minutes, and try with a straw. 

. * f\* 

v 

EXCELLENT GINGER SNAPS. 

MBS. GILLETTE. 

Two cupfuls molasses, one cupful butter and lard mixed, 
two teaspoonfuls saleratus, one egg. Boil molasses and the 
cupful of shortening together five minutes; let cool a few 
minutes, then stir in the beaten egg and salaratus, holding 
it over the pan of flour while stirring it in, as it will foam 
and run over. As much ginger as is liked. Mix thin, roll 
thin. A few minutes will bake them. These are excellent. 



EMMA'S JUMBLES. 

MRS. C. G. DU BOIS. 

Weigh one-half pound butter, three-quarter pounds flour, 
one-half pound powdered sugar (put by a little sugar to 
roll them in). Beat two eggs well; add little nut-meg. 
Make this into a stff dough; do not roll, but break off pieces 
the size of walnuts, and make into rings; lay them in tins 
to bake, an inch apart, as it runs and spreads. A moderate 
oven. 



ORANGE CAKE. 

MISS LILLIE MILLIKEN. 

Two small cupfuls of sugar and half cupful of butter, 
worked to a cream; then add three well-beaten eggs, one 
cupful of milk, three cupfuls of flour, and two teaspoonfuls 
of baking-powder; bake in five jelly-tins in a quick oven. 
For frosting to put between the ca<es, use the whites of two 
eggs, the juice and grated rind of one orange, and sugar 
enough to make it quite stiff. 



CREAM CAKE. 

MRS. O. W. GUILDS. 



Four eggs, one cupful of sugar, one cupful of flour, one 
teaspoonful of yeast-powder, and a pinch of salt. Pour the 



LOS ANGELES COOKERY. 135 

above mixture into jelly-cake pans, and bake a light brown 
in a quick oven. 

Cream custard for the above cake, to be used the same 
as for jelly cake: One pint of milk, one tablespoonful of 
corn-starch, one egg, two heaping tablespoonfuls of white 
sugar, and one teaspoonful of butter. Flavor with vanilla. 
Bring the milk and sugar almost to a boil; then add the 
corn-starch, stirred smooth with a little milk, and a pinch of 
salt. Stir it at the back of the range for five minutes, not 
allowing it to boil. Take it off and let cool a little; then 
stir in the egg well, and put the kettle on the fire again for 
a few minutes. Add the flavoring, and spread thick on the 
layers of cake. Ice the upper layer. 
- :o: - 
WHITE CAKE. 

MRS. J. W. GILLETTE. 

One cupful butter, two' cupfuls white sugar, whites of 
six eggs, beaten light, one-half cupful of milk, with a lump 
of soda the size of a pea, and three cupfuls of flour. Flavor 
to taste, lemoa or almond. 



CREAM SPONGE CAKE. 

MRS. J. YARNELL. 

One cupful sifted flour, one cupful granulated sugar, 
four eggs; beat the yolks and sugar thoroughly, then add the 
whites, beating again, then flour very lightly. Bake in layers 
in a quick oven. Make the cream with a little milk, the white 
of one egg, and sufficient corn-starch to make it the con- 
sistency of thick cream; sweeten and flavor to taste. 

PENNSYLVANIA SPONGE CAKE. 

MRS. I. R. DUNKELBERGER. 

Seven eggs, one pound of white sugar, three-quarters 
of a pound of flour, and one gill of warm water. Put the 
sugar into a vessel and pour the water over it; stand it 
where it will keep warm not hot; break the eggs into a 
tin bucket and pour the heated sugar on it, beating with the 
egg. beater as you pour it; keep the bucket containing the 
sugar and eggs over a vessel of hot water all the time you 



136 LOS ANGELES COOKERY. 

- , 

beat. Continue this half an hour; then stir in very lightly 
the flavoring and flour, and bake immediately in a buttered 
tin. 



BRIDE'S CAKE. 

MRS. M. M. TEMPLETON. 

Half cupful of butter, two cupfuls of white sugar, the 
whites of five eggs, one cupful of sweet milk, three cupfuls 
of flour, and two teaspoonfuls of baking-powder. Flavor 
to taste. 



CORN-STARCH CAKE. 

MBS. J. HINES. 



Two cupfuls sugar, one cupful butter, one-half cupful 
milk, whites of six eggs. Beat to a foam. Two teaspoon- 
fuls of cream of tartar, one cupful of soda, two cupfuls 
flour, one cupful corn-starch. 



SNOW SPONGE CAKE. 

MRS. J. W. GILLETTE. 

One cupful of flour, a little heated, one and a half cup- 
fuls sugar, two teaspoonfuls cream of tartar mixed with 
flour, (no soda,) whites of ten eggs. This makes a very 
white, beautiful cake. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

MRS. J. YARNELL. 

Piece of butter the size of a walnut, one cupful sugar, 
two eggs, one-half cupful sweet milk, two teaspoonfuls 
baking powder, flour enough to make into a stiff dough. 
This makes but a few, and they are very nice. 

ORANGE CAKE. 

MRS. DR. ROSS. 

One cupful of powdered sugar, one and a half cupfuls 
of flour, half cupful of sweet milk, a lump of butter the 
size of a walnut, one egg and the yolk of another, and one 
heaping teaspoonful of yeast-powder. Bake in three layers, 



LOS ANGELES COOKERY. 137 

as for jelly cake. Take the white of one egg, beaten to a 
stiff froth, to which add the grated rind and the juice of one 
orange and three tablespoonfuls of sugar. Spread this be- 
tween the cakes as you would jelly. 

COFFEE' CAKE. 

MRS. J. HINES. 

Two cupfuls sugar, one cupful butter, six eggs, one 
cupful cold, strong coffee, two cups raisins, one cupful cur- 
rants, two teaspoonfuls cream of tartar, one cupful soda, one 
dessert-spoonful of mace; spice to taste. 

CRULLERS. 

MRS. M. M. BOVARD. 

Four eggs, four tablespoonfuls of sugar, three table- 
spoonfuls of melted butter or lard, and four tablespoonfuls 
of flour. Roll thin, cut in two-inch squares, and slit in six 
bars, one under and one over the finger. Fry in hot lard. 
*o* ^ 

VELVET SPONGE CAKE. 

MKB. DR. FRENCH. 

Four eggs, two cupfuls sugar, two cupfuls flour, two- 
thirds of a cupful boiling water; add the water last; one 
teaspoonfui of baking powder, one teaspoonful of essence 
of lemon. 



DELICATE CAKE. 

MRS. C. G. DU BOIS. 

"Whites of eight eggs, three cupfuls sugar, one cupful 
butter, one-half cupful sweet milk, four cupfuls flour, four 
teaspoonfuls of baking-powder. 

, r\ ___ _ _ 

LEMON CAKE. 

MRS. J. W. GILLETTE. 

One cupful sugar, one-half cupful butter, two cupfuls 
flour, two eggs, one-half cupful milk, one teaspoonful cream 
baking powder, lemon essence. For the jelly: Take coffee- 
cupful sugar, two tablespoonfuls butter, two eggs, juice of 



138 LOS ANGELES COOKERY. 

two lemons. Beat all together, and boil until the consis- 
tency of jelly. Orange may be used in the same way. For 
orange and lemon pies, add one teaspoonful of corn-starch 
to the above. 



BOSTON GINGER-BREAD. 

MISS M. E. HOYT. 

One pound of flour, half a pound of butter, six eggs, a 
little brown sugar, one pint of molasses, and half a tsacup- 
ful of ginger, to which add nutmeg, cinnamon, or any other 
flavoring, to taste; also, one teaspoonful of soda, dissolved 
in a little vinegar. 

___^_ *o* - 

COFFEE' CAKE. 

MRS. G. W. WELLS. 

One cupful of sugar, one cupful of molasses, one cup- 
ful of cold coffee, two cupfuls of raisins, one cupful of 
melted butter, two eggs, two teaspoonf uls of baking-pow- 
der, half teaspoonful of cinnamon, and cloves and nutmeg. 
Bake on hour. 



GINGER NUTS. 

RELIABLE. 

One cupful of molasses, one cupful of sugar, one cup- 
ful of butter, two teaspoonfuls of ginger, two teaspoonfuls 
of baking-powder, and sufficient flour to make a stiff dough. 
Roll thin, cut out, and bake in a quick oven. 

COOKIES. 

MRS. A. W. POTTS. 

Two cupfuls of sugar, one cupful of butter, one cupful 
of cold water, and half teaspoonful of soda. 

POUND CAKE. 

MRS. S. SPEEDY. 

One light pound of butter, beat to a cream; twelve eggs, 
beat these well; one light pound of powdered sugar, add 
this to the butter, and beat ten minutes; add the eggs and 



LOS ANGELES COOKE RY. 1 39 

beat five minutes; one light pound of sifted flour; set this in 
the oven and make it warm; mix this in very lightly, barely 
enough to mix; bake in a moderate oven one hour. I find 
this is much easier and nicer stirred with the hand. 



SILVER CAKE. 

MRS. J. HINES. 

Two cupfuls of sugar, one cupful of butter, one cupful 
of milk, the whites of eight eggs, two teaspoonfulsof cream 
of tartar, one of soda, and four cupfuls of flour. 

NUT CAKE. 

MRS. W. D. GIBBS. 

One cupful of sugar, one cupful of cream, one-third of 
a cupful of butter, two eggs, one teaspoonful of soda, two 
teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar, dissolved in two spoonfuls 
of milk, and one cupful of nuts. 

:o : 

CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

MRS. M. M. BOVARD. 

Two cupfuls of sugar, one cupful of butter, the yolks 
of five eggs and the whites of two, one cupful of milk, three 
and a half cupfuls of flour, half teaspoonful of soda, and 
one teaspoonful of cream of tartar, sifted in the flour. Bake 
in jelly-cake tins. 

Mixture for filling: The whites of three eggs, half a 
cupful of sugar, three tablespoonfuls of grated chocolate, 
and one teaspoonful of vanilla. Beat together, and spread 

between the layers. 

. *o* 

MARBLE CAKE. 

MRS. J. M. STEWART. 

White Portion: Seven eggs (white only), two cupfuls 
white sugar, one cupful butter, three cupfuls flour, one and 
a half cupfuls milk, one teaspoonful soda, two teaspoonfuls 
cream of tartar. 

Dark Portion: Seven eggs (yolks only), one cupful 
butter, two cupfuls brown sugar, one cupful syrup, one cup- 



140 LOS ANGELES COOKERY. 

ful sour cream, five cupfuls flour, one teaspoonful nutmeg, 
two teaspoonfuls cinnamon, one teaspoonful soda. Combine 
to represent marble. 

. _ T _ r\ 1 _ 

GERMAN CHRISTMAS CAKE. 

MRS. A. HIGBIE, COMPTON. 

Two cupfuls of honey and one cupful of sugar; put on 
the stove to boil; add walnuts or almonds, and a lemon peel, 
cut fine. Let it cool a little, and add spices, cloves, nutmeg, 
etc. When quite cool, stir in the flour, in which has been 
mixed a teaspoonful of baking-powder; then add citron. 
Roll it out and cut in squares, to bake the same day or the 
next. 



GINGER-SNAPS. 

MRS. J. M. STEWART. 



One cupful of butter, one cupful of syrup, one and 'one- 
half cupfuls of brown sugar, one tablespoonful of cinnamon, 
one tablespoonful of ginger, one teaspoonful of soda, dis- 
solved in four tablespoonfuls of water; flour enough to roll. 



GOLD CAKE. 

MRS. J. HINES. 

Two cupfuls of sugar, one cupful of butter, one cupful 
of milk, the yolks of eight eggs, two teaspoonfuls of cieam 
of tartar, one of soda, and four cupfuls of flour. 

, _. _ r . j f\ _ . _ . _ __ 

CREAM CAKE. 

MRS. A. AV. POTTS. 

Three-quarters of a cupful of milk, half cupful of pow- 
dered sugar, a lump of butter half the size of an egg, and 
one tablespoonful of corn-starch. Boil the milk, butter, and 
sugar together; add the corn-starch, wet with a little cold 
milk; stir briskly while boiling. Boil from three to five 
minutes. When cold, flavor to taste. 

Cream for the cake: One cupful of sugar, half table- 
spoonful of butter, three eggs, half cupful of flour, half 
cupful of corn-starch, and one teaspoonful of Dooley's 
yeast-powders. Bake in jelly-cake tins, and put together 



LOS ANGELES COOKERY. 141 

one hour before serving, substituting the cream for jelly. 
The above is for a small cake. If your jelly-cake tins are 
large, double the quantities for cake and cream. 

^ * O * - --_-j m 

LAFAYETTE CAKE. 

MBS. J. M. STEWART. 

Two cupfuls of sugar, one-half cupful of butter, beat to a 
light cream; four cupfuls of flour, one cupful of sweet milk, 
three eggs, two teaspoonfuls of creamtartar, one teaspoonful 
of soda. 



GINGER COOKIES. 

MBS. A. N. HAMILTON. 



One cupful of butter, one cupful of sugar, two cupfuls of 
molasses, one tablespoonful alum, dissolved in two-thirds of 
a cupful of boiling water; two teaspoonfuls of soda, dis- 
solved in the same quantity of boiling water; Ginger to taste. 

_____ r\ , 

PORK CAKE. 

MKS. G. W. WELLS. 

One pound of salt pork, chopped fine; one pint of hot 
water, one pound of raisins, two cupfuls of sugar and one of 
molasses, one tablespoonful of soda, one tablespoonful of 
cloves, one tablespoonful of cinnamon, five cupfuls of flour. 



WHITE CAKE. 

MRS. L. CHEEK. 

Three-fourths of a cupful of butter, two cupfuls of 
sugar, one cupful of sweet milk, the whites of four eggs, 
and four cupfuls of flour, in which two teaspoonfuls of bak- 
ing-powder*has been mixed. Flavor with lemon. 

SPONGE JELLY CAKE ROLLED. 

MRS. JOHN FOY, SAN BERNARDINO. 

Five eggs, one cupful of sugar, one cupful of flour, and 
two teaspoonfuls of baking-powder. Beat the yolks and 
sugar to a cream; add the whites, beaten to a stiff froth; 
then the flour, in which the baking-powder has been well 



142 LOS ANGELES COOKERY. 

mixed. Bake in a dripping-pan. When done, turn out in 
a cloth, spread jelly on the bottom of the cake, and roll 
from the side. Sprinkle sugar over the top. This cako may 
be cut in slices and served, with a sweet sauce, for dessert. 

CUP 'CAKE. 

MRS. A. A. DODSWORTH. 

Four eggs, one and one-half cupfuls of sugar, three table- 
spoonfuls of butter, one and one-half teaspoonfuls of Royal 
baking-powder, two cupfuls of flour, nutmeg if you like, 
milk to make the right thickness. 

COCO AN UT CAKES. 

MRS. GEN. STONEMAN. 

To the whites of six eggs one pound of loaf sugar; mix 
a pound of the cocoanut, or sufficient to make a stiff paste. 
Flour your hands and make it up into little balls; lay them 
on buttered white paper, grate sugar over them, and bake in 
brisk oven. 



ICING. 

MRS. F. D. BOVARD. 



The whites of two eggs, twelve even tablespoonfuls of 
pulverized sugar; beat the eggs to a stiff froth. This will 
frost two good sized cakes. 



CITRON CAKE. 

MRS. J. E. HOLLENBECK. 



Take the whites of twelve eggs, three cupfuls of sugar, 
one small cupful of butter, a cupful of sweet milk, four 
small cupfuls of flour, half a cupful of corn-starch, two tea- 
spoonfuls of baking-powder, and lemon to taste, adding a 
cupful of citron, sliced thin and dusted with flour. 



BOILED SPONGE CAKE. 

MRS. CHARLES MACLA.Y, SAN FERNANDO. 

Three-quarters of a pound of sugar, seven eggs, and half 
pound of flour. Beat whites and yolks separately; then put 



LOS ANGELES COOKERY. 143 

them together; a few minutes before doing so put sugar on 
the stove, with half a teacupful of water; let it come to a 
good boil, and pour it on the eggs, stirring all the while until 
cold; then add flour and flavoring; try with a splint when 
done. 



GINGER COOKIES. 

MRS. S. B. CASWELL. 

Two cupfuls of molasses, one cupful of butter, five cup- 
fuls of flour, or enough to roll out very soft; add ginger to 
taste. Keep air tight. 

:o : 

COLD WATER CAKE. 

MISS MARY MCLELLAN. 

One cupful of butter, two cupfuls of sugar, one cupful of 
cold water, four cupfuls of flour, one cupful of seeded 
raisins, three eggs, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder. 
Flavor with nutmeg or mace. Beat all at once. 
. Q* __ _ 

SPICE CAKE. 

MRS. G. W. WELLS. 

Six eggs, leave out the whites of tro; one cupful of but- 
ter, two cupfuls of brown sugar, one cupful of sweet milk,, 
one tablespoonful of allspice, one teaspoonful of every kind 
of spice, three teaspoonfuls of baking powder; flour suffi- 
cient to make proper stiffness. 

COOKIES. 

MRS. J. M. STEWART. 

One cupful of butter, one cupful of sour cream, two 
cupfuls of sugar, three eggs, one teaspoonful of soda, and 
caraway seed if you like. 

CREAM CAKES. 
MRS. H. K. s. O'MELVENY. 

To one quart of cream add one pound of butter. Before 
mixing cream the butter and whip the cream. Add enough 
flour and a little salt to make a dough stiff enough to roll. 



144 LOS ANGELES COOKERY. 

Cut off a small piece, roll it out with your hand, then bring 
both ends to the center, making two loops. Have ready on 
your breadboard some granulated sugar, lay the cake on it, 
and press it down with the rolling-pin. Put the cakes in a 
dripping pan, with the sugar side up, and bake. 

-_ ,^^_ f\ 

CUP CAKE. 

MRS. J. E. HOLLENBECK. 

Three cupfuls of flour, two of sugar, one of butter, one- 
third of a cupful of cream, five eggs, well beaten, two tea- 
spoonfuls of cream of tartar and one of soda, dissolved sep- 
arately. Mix all well together, and bake in a moderate 
oven. 



DELICATE CAKE. 

MRS. G. W. WELLS. 

Whites of four eggs, beaten to.a stiff froth; one-half cup- 
ful of butter, and one cupful of sugar, stirred to a cream; 
one-half cupful of sweet milk, one cupful of flour, one tea- 
spoonful cream of tartar, one-half teaspoonful of soda, three 
tablespooufuls of cornstarch. 

.Q 

JELLY CAKE. 

MRS. DR. FRENCH. 

One cupful of sugar, a lump of butter the size of an 
gg, three eggs, one cupful of flour, one teaspoonful of 
cream of tartar, and a half teaspoonful of soda, dissolved in 
one tablespoonful of milk. Bake in jelly-cake tins. When 
cold, spread jelly between the layers. 

WALNUT CAKE. 

MRS. GEORGE CLARK. 

One cupful of milk, three-quarters of a cupful of but- 
ter, two cupfuls of granulated sugar, three cupfuls of flour, 
two teaspoonfuls of baking-powder, three eggs, and not 
quite a cupful of kernels of walnuts, broken up. In the 
first place beat the butter and sugar to a cream; next stir 
the milk in slowly; then beat separately the yolks and whites 
of the eggs; add the yolks, the butter, and sugar; then the 



LOS ANGELES COOKERY. 145 

whites, beaten to a st : ff froth; stir all well together; next 
sift in the flour, putting the broken nuts in last. Bake in 
square pans. Frost both cakes with icing, and put one cake 
on top of the other. Divide the frosting into small squares, 
laying half a nut in the middle of each square. 

MOUNTAIN CAKE. 

MRS. G. W. WELLS. 

Two cupfuls of butter, two cupfuls of sugar, four eggs, 
whites and yolks beaten separately; three and one-half cup- 
fuls of flour, one cupful of sweet milk, two teaspoonfuls of 
cream of tartar, one teaspoonful of soda. 

HONEY CAKE. 

MRS. I. W. HELLMAN. 

One cupful of honey, one-half cupful of butter, mix them 
well together; three eggs, three-quarters of a cupful of black 
coffee, three pieces of grated chocolate, one-half teaspoonful 
of cinnamon and allspice. To every cupful of flour take a 
teaspoonful of yeast powder, and enough flour to make a 
very stiff batter; one-half cupful of citron, one cupful of 
stoned raisins, and one-half cupful of almonds. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

MRS. J. E. HOLLEXCECK. 

Take one cupful of butter, two of sugar, one of milk, 
five eggs, leaving out the whites of three, four cupfuls of 
sifted flour, and two teaspoonfuls of baking-powder; bake 
in three or four layers. For icing, take the whites of three 
eggs, beaten stiff, one and a half cupfuls of powdered sugar, 
six tablespoonfuls of grated chocolate, and two teaspoonfuls 
of vanilla. 

BACHELORS' BUTTONS. 

MRS. S. B. CA8WELL. 

These are small cakes about the size of maccaroons. 
They are very nice. One cupful of white sugar, half cupful 
of butter, one and a half cupfuls of flour, and one egg; fla- 
vor with almond. Roll into little balls about the size of a 



146 LOS ANGELES COOKERY. 

small walnut; then roll them in white sugar and put into 
buttered pans some distance apart, to allow them to flatten 
out. Add a little more flour if they flatten too much. This 
recipe should make between fifty and sixty. 

f\* ^ 

CUP POUND CAKE. 

MISS A. E. WIDNEY. 

Two and one-half cupfuls of sugar, three-quarters of a 
cupful of butter, six eggs, one cupful of milk, three and one- 
half cupfuls of sifted flour, two teaspoonfuls of yeast powder, 
two teaspoonfuls of vanilla. 

ANGEL CAKE. 

RELIABLE. 

Take one large cupful of flour, add to it a teaspoonful of 
cream of tartar; sift through a sieve four times. Beat to a 
stiff froth the whites of eleven eggs, add to them slowly, as 
in making frosting, one and a half cupfuls of pulverized 
sugar, and one teaspoonful of extract of vanilla; then stir in 
the flour, sifting it slowly through the fingers. Bake in a 
deep unbuttered tin, and do not remove from the tin till quite 
cold. 



ORANGE CAKE. 

MISS A. TUTHILL. 

Two cupfuls of sugar and one-half cupful of butter, 
creamed, one cupful of sweet milk, three eggs, well beaten, 
and three teaspoonfuls of baking-powder. Mix with three 
cupfuls of flour. Bake in four layers. 

Filling: Grate the rind of one large orange; squeeze 
out the juice; mix with one cupful of sugar, one egg, and 
one tablespoonful of cocoanut, or not, as you please. Boil 
this about two minutes, and spread between the layers. 

:o: 

CREAM CAKES. 

MRS. J. C. NEWTON, SAN GABRIEL. 

For the outside: One pint of water, half pound of 
butter, three-quarters of a pound of flour, and ten eggs. 
Boil the water and butter together; stir in the flour while 



LOS ANGELES COOKERY. 147 

boiling; take it from the fire to cool; when cold, add the 
eggs by breaking them into the mixture one at a time; stir 
them in very thoroughly, but be sure not to beat them; add 
a teaspoonful of cold water; drop them into your pan; form 
them with a spoon, as they do not rise much. Bake fifteen 
or twentv minutes in a hot oven, and do not open the door 
until they are done. 

Mixture for the inside: Two cupfuls of sugar, one 
cupful of flour, one pint of milk, and four eggs. Boil the 
milk; beat the eggs, sugar and flour together, and stir them 
into the milk while boiling, until thickened. Next add es- 
sence of lemon, to flavor, and when the mixture is cool, fill 
your cakes. 

^ (") * . 

CREAM SPONGE -CAKE. 

MRS. H. C. AUSTIN. 

One cupful of sugar, two eggs, one-half cupful of cream, 
one cupful of flour, one teaspoonful of yeast powder. Beat 
sugar and eggs light; add the cream, and lastly, flour and 
powder. 

____^^ r\' 

RICH CRULLERS. 

MISS M. E. HOYT. 

Four pounds of flour, one pound of butter, one-quarter 
pound of lard, ten eggs, one and one-quarter pounds of sugar. 

, " C\ * 

COCOANUT CAKE. 

MRS. I/S. SMITH. 

One pound of fine sugar, half pound of butter, three- 
quarters of a pound of flour, one large cocoanut, grated, six 
eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately, half cupful of 
milk, or the milk from the nut, if good, and three teaspoon- 
fuls of baking-powder. Stir the butter and sugar to a 
cream; then add the yolks and other ingredients, and just 
before placing in the oven add the cocoanut. 

BOSTON CREAM CAKE. 

MISS A. TUTHILL. 

Paste: One cupful of water, two large tablespoonfuls of 
butter, one cupful of flour, and three eggs. Boil the water 



148 LOS ANGELES COOKERY. 

and butter together; stir in the flour while boiling, and let it 
cook a moment; when cool, add first the yolks, then the 
whites, well beaten. Drop with a spoon on buttered tins, 
forming little cakes some distance apart. Bake in a quick 
oven; they will puff in baking. When cold, cut one side 
large enough to insert the cream with a spoon. 

Cream: One tablespoonful of cornstarch, two tablespoon - 
fuls of sugar, one egg, and flavoring. Make like any other 
custard, and use cold. 



[In these recipes for fruit cake, the glass of wine r brandy usu- 
ally added for the preservation of the cake we omit.] 

FRUIT CAKE. 

MKS. O. W. CHILDS. 

One pound of white sugar, one pound of butter, one 
pound of flour, twelve eggs, two pounds of seeded raisins, 
two pounds of currants, two pounds of citron, cut fine, and 
two grated nutmegs. Mix the butter and sugar together to 
a cream; add the yolks, well beaten, and then the whites, 
whipped to a stiff froth; mix the flour lightly, and then add 
the fruit and nutmeg. Bake two hours in a moderate oven. 

FRUIT CAKE. 

MRS. STAFFORD, SANTA AXA. 

One and a half pounds of flour, one and a quarter 
pounds of brown sugar, one pound of butter, two pounds of 
seeded raisins, two pounds of currants, one and a half 
pounds of sliced citron, eleven eggs, two nutmegs, cloves, 
cinnamon, one teaspoonful of soda, and one cupful of mo- 
lasses. Reserve one-third of the flour to mix with the fruit. 



TUTTI FRUITTI CAKE. 

MRS. J. G. HOWARD. 

One cupful of butter, two cupfuls of sugar, one cupful 
of sweet milk, two and a half cupfuls of flour, good round 
measure, the whites of seven egfgs, three teaspoonfuls of 
yeast-powder, one pound of raisins, one pound of figs, one 
pound of dates, one pound of almonds, and one pound of 
citron. Blanch the almonds and slice them in fine slices 



LOS ANGELES COOKERY. 



do not chop them; bake in two long tin pans, as you would 
sponge cake, the width just right for a slice; bake in a slow 
oven about one hour and three-quarters. 

_ f\ _ _, 

FRUIT CAKE. 



MRS. IDA "VVIDNET. 



One pound of flour, one pound of sugar, one pound of 
butter, ten eggs, three pounds of seeded raisins, two pounds 
of currants, three quarters of a pound of citron, one ounce each 
of cinnamon, nutmeg, allspice and cloves, and half pint of 
molasses. 




150 



AD VERTISEMENTS. 



O 

CO 

H 

H 
H 

CO 



M 
tf 
tf 




(S 

O 



o 

c 

2 


c 

C3 

r 
** 

O 



*- 

fl^ 

^^ 

eS 



CO 
CM 



10 

8 



AD VERTISEJIENTS. 



151 



JESSE YARN ELL. 



T. J. CAYSTILE. 



S. J. MATHES 



YARNELL CAYSTILE & MATHES, 



BOOK AND JOB 



?k~_,-F 



r 



BOOK MANUFACTURERS.^ 



^<v S& 

"T 



-^3-*&JK?)> 



DOWNEY BLOCK, TEMPLE STREET, 



3L.OS 



152 LOS ANGELES COOKERY. 



FRUIT DEPARTMENT, 

ORANGES FILLED WITH JELLY. 

MRS. I. R. DUNKELBERGER. 

Select large oranges, and from the top of each remove 
with a sharp penknife a piece the size of a quarter of a dol- 
lar; then, with the handle of a teaspoon, take out the pulp, 
being careful not to break the rinds, and throw them into 
cold water. Press the juice from the pulp, strain (allow one 
ounce of white isinglass to six oranges); put the juice and 
isinglass over the fire, stir constantly, and boil four or five 
minutes. Color half the jelly a bright rose color, with red 
currant jelly, or cranberry jelly. Drain, and wipe the rinds, 
and when the jelly is quite cold, fill with al'ernate stripes of 
the two colored jellies. When perfectly cold, cut into quar- 
ters, with a very sharp knife, and arrange tastefully in a 
glass dish. This makes a beautiful ornamental dish for the 
dinner table. 



ORANGE MARMALADE. 

RELIABLE. 

Nine bitter, three sweet oranges, four lemons. Cut the 
fruit across the grain, in the thinnest slices possible. Let it 
stand for thirty-six hours in four quarts of spring water. 
Boil for two hours; add eight pounds of white sugar, and 
boil for one hour, or until it jellies. 

Lemon marmalade can be made in the same wav. 



PEAR PRESERVES. 

MRS. II. MCLELLAX. 



Parboil the fruit in just enough water to cover them. 
When done, place the pears on a plate; then take as many 



LOS ANGELES COOKERY. 153 

pounds of sugar of pears (before they were boiled), and 
place the sugar in the water the pears were boiled in. When 
it comes to a boil, drop in the pears and cook until they are 
soft enough not to fall in pieces. 

:o: 

PRESERVED FIGS. 

MRS. W. W. WIDNEY. 

Peel four pounds of white figs and add three pounds of 
sugar. Cook the same as other preserves. 

POTTED PEACHES. 

MRS. M. G. MOORE. 

Four pounds of fruit and one pound of sugar. Make 
a syrup of water and the sugar, put the peaches into it, and 
cook about the same as for canning; after which, spread the 
fruit on a dish, boil the syrup very thick, and as the fruit 
dries, moisten with the syrup on both sides. Do this sev- 
eral times, and when about half dry, put the fruit into jars 
and pour the warm syrup over it. The syrup must be warm 
when moistening the fruit. Stew before using. 

O " _^___^ 

LEMON JELLY. 

MRS. ADELIA HALL. 

One -half box of gelatine soaked in one-half pint of water, 
juice of five large lemons, two cupfuls of loaf sugar, or sugar 
to taste; beaten white and shell of an egg, one and one-half 
pints of boiling water. Soak the gelatine in one pint of 
water half an hour. Rub several of the pieces of sugar 
over the peel of the lemon to soak the oil on the surface. 
Pour a pint and a half of boiling water on the soaked gela- 
tine, and add lemon-juice, sugar, and egg; let it come to a 
boil, and set it on one side of the range for a few minutes, 
then skim carefully and pass through the jelly-bag. 

Q 

GRAPE JELLY. 

MRS. R. M. WIDNEY. 

"Wash your grapes the evening before making your jel- 
ly, to be sure they are perfectly dry before cooking them. 
Pick the small bunches from the main stem, put them in a 



154 LOS ANGELES COOKERY. 

porcelain kettle, and cook very soft; then turn into a flannel 
bag to drain. To one pint of the juice thus obtained add a 
pint of sugar, and boil twenty minutes. Never jelly a larger 
quantity than a pint in the same vessel at the same time. 

, . l * o * ^ ^ 

RASPBERRY OR BLACKBERRY JAM. 

MRS. COL. GEO. SMITH. 

To every pound of fruit weigh three-quarters of a 
pound of crushed sugar. Put the sugar into the oven to 
heat, but not melt, while the fruit is cooking. Cook the 
fruit twenty minutes, and then add the hot sugar, and let it 
boil ten minutes longer, stirring constantly after the sugar 
-oes in. 



SPICED GOOSEBERRIES. 

MRS. C. G. DU BOIS. 

Five pounds of gooseberries and two and a half pounds 
of brown sugar. Boil from two to three hours. One-half 
hour before done, add one pint of vinegar, one and a half 
ounces of cloves, and one ounce of cinnamon. Stir while 
cooking. 

ORANGE MARMALADE. 

MRS. J. E. HOLLENBECK. 

Grate off the outside or yellow peel of each orange 
and rub on salt as long as they will absorb it; put them in a 
gallon jar, add two cupfuls of salt, and pour boiling water 
over them once each day for three consecutive days. Then 
boil in fresh water for two hours; put in cold water until 
cool; quarter, remove the seeds and white pulp, and slice 
fine. Take equal weights of oranges and white sugar, and 
cook two hours in a preserve kettle, stirring frequently. 

SPICED PEACHES. 

MRS. 8. C. HUBBELL. 

To nine pounds of peaches add four and a half pounds 
of sugar, one pint of vinegar, and a half cupful each of 
cloves and cinnamon, tied in separate cloths. Pare and halve 
the peaches, and put them in a jar. Boil the vinegar, spice 



LOS ANGELES COOKERY. 155 

and sugar together for a few moments, and pour over the 
peaches boiling hot. Let them stand over night, and in the 
morning put all in a kettle and boil ten minutes. Take out 
the peaches, leaving the spice, and boil the vinegar until it 
begins to thicken; then pour it over the peaches. 

CANNED QUINCES. 

MRS. JOHN TOY, SAX BERNARDINO. 

For twelve pounds of fruit seedy preferred use four 
pounds of good sugar, making a light syrup, sufficient to 
cover the fruit, and boil until tender, usually requiring two, 
or two and a half hours. The fruit looks very nice when 
pared and cut in round slices, leaving the cores and seeds in. 

DELICIOUS APPLES FOR TEA. 

MRS. M. G. MOORE. 

Take two pounds of apples, pare and core, then slice them 
into a pan; add one pound of white sugar, the juice of three 
lemons, and grated rind of one. Let this boil about two 
hours, and turn into a mold. Serve cold, with custard or 
cream. 

BAKED PEACHES. 

MISS MAMIE VAN DOREN. 

Peel and place your peaches in a baking tin, sprinkle lib- 
erally on each peach brown sugar, little flour, and a lump of 
butter. Just before placing in the oven add warm water, 
sufficient to secure a nice gravy, being careful not to dis- 
turb the sugar, flour or butter. Bake until soft, and a light 
brovrn. 



GREEN TOMATO HIGDEN. 

MRS. M. E. J. 

One peck of green tomatoes, sliced thin and sprinkled 
with salt. Let stand for twenty-four boute, and drain them. 
Take twelve large onions and slice them thin. Mix well to- 
gether a quarter of a pound of mustard, one ounce of cloves, 
one ounce of ground ginger, one ounce of allspice, one 
ounce of ground pepper, one bottle of ground mustard, one 



156 LOS .ANGELES COOKERY. 

pound of sugar, and two soup ladles of olive oil. Place a 
layer of each the sliced tomatoes and the sliced onions, 
with the spices between in a large kettle; cover well with 
vinegar, and boil gently for three hours. 

_ Q __ 

SPICED FIGS. 

MRS. JOHN FOY, SAN BERNARDINO. 

One quart of the best vinegar, three pounds of sugar, nine 
pounds of figs, and two tablespoonfuls of mixed spices, 
cloves, cinnamon, and a little mace; simmer the fruit in the 
liquor until tender. Either the purple or the best white 
figs are delicious prepared in this manner. 



EUCHRED FRUIT. 

MRS. C. H. BRADLEY. 

To seven pounds of fruit take three pounds of sugar, one 
quart of vinegar, all kinds of spices. Heat vinegar, sugar 
and spices together, and pour over the fruit boiling hot, three 
days in succession; seal. 

^ ^ ' ' * ~ ~ 
PLUM CATSUP. 

MRS. JOHN FOY, SAN BERNARDINO. 

Boil together for two hours nine pounds of seeded plums, 
six pounds of sugar, and three pints of the best cider vine- 
gar. Just before removing from the fire add one tablespoon - 
ful each of cloves and allspice. 

PRESERVED FIGS. 

MRS. S. C. HUBBELL. 

Select fine, large, white figs, as near as possible, of equal 
ripeness, peel and weigh them. Boil slowly until tender, 
but not broken; take them out with care, and lay on platters. 
Throw away the liquor and prepare a thick syrup of sugar, 
as many pounds as of fruit; boil it well, and skim it. Put in 
the figs and cook slowly till transparent; when nearly done, 
add a few slices of lemon. Put in glass jars. 



LOS ANGELES COOKERY. 157 



PICKLE DEPARTMENT, 

TOMATO CATSUP. 

MRS. E. F. SPENCE. 

Three gallons of tomato juice, three pints of vinegar, nine 
tablespoonfulb of salt, six tablespoonfuls of black pepper^ 
one tabiespoonful of cayenne, five tablespoonfuls of cloves^ 
three tablespoonfuls of allspice, three tablespoonfuls of cin- 
namon, three tablespoonfuls of mustard. Boil until the 
usual consistency of catsup. 

TOMATO CATSUP. 

MRS. J. G. EASTMAN. 

To one gallon of strained tomato juice add four table- 
spoonfuls of mustard, four tablespoonfuls of black pepper, 
four tablespoonfuls of salt, three tablespoonfuls of cinnamon, 
two tablespoonfuls of allspice, one tabiespoonful of cloves, 
two tablespoonfuls of cayenne pepper, three pods of green 
pepper, one teacupful of sugar, one quart of vinegar. Boil 
three hours, stirring frequently. The vinegar should not be 
added until the juice and spices are nearly done. When 
cold, bottle and seal. 



PICCALILLI. 

MRS. E. S. CHASE. 

One gallon of sliced tomatoes (green). Salt them in 
layers and let them stand all night; drain in the morningj 
cut six green peppers fine and spread over the top. Take 
one tabiespoonful of black pepper, one ounce of stick-cin- 
namon, and one ounce of cloves. Boil the whole mixture in 
sufficient vinegar to cover it, until it is tender about two 



158 LOS ANGELES COOKERY. 

hours, moderately. Put up in cans while hot, and cover 
tightly. 

_ ___ ___ _ * O " LJ_ _._ ____ - T_ 

TOMATO CATSUP. 

MRS. G. W. WELLS. 

To one gallon of pulp put half a pint of vinegar, one 
teacupful of sugar, one tablespoonful of cinnamon, one ta- 
blespoonful of cloves, one tablespoonful of salt, half table- 
spoonful of black pepper, and half teaspoonful of cayenne 
pepper. Boil down one-half. 

^^^^^ * f\ * -- 

SPICED TOMATOES. 

MRS. E. F. SPENCE. 

For seven pounds of tomatoes take three and a half 
pounds of sugar, one pint of strong vinegar, one tablespoon- 
ful of whole cloves, and three sticks of cinnamon. Boil 
thirty-five minutes. Put the sugar and vinegar on to boil; 
remove the skins from the tomatoes and drop in. 
-- :o: -- 
CHILI SAUCE. 

MRS. STAFFORD, SANTA ANA. 

Ten ripe tomatoes, eight green peppers, six onions, one 
tablespoonful of salt, one- half cupful of sugar, one quart of 
vinegar; chop onions, pepper and tomatoes very fine; boil 
all together two hours. 

The above is the finest sauce I ever used, and bottled will 
keep years. 



PRESERVED WALNUTS. 

MRS. JOHN MILNER. 

Use full-grown nuts, when still green and in milk, before 
they begin to harden (the best time here to take them from 
the tree is generally in the month of May); pierce each nut 
with a thick needle in several places, and lay them in cold water 
for about eight days, changing the water three times a day; 
then boil them, well-covered with water, with a pinch of salt, 
until soft enough to be easily pierced with a needle; put 
again in cold water for a couple of days, changing the water 
three times a day. Then boil in sugar, pound for pound, for 



LOS ANGELES COOKERY. 159 

a few minutes, and allow to stand and cool; next day pour 
off the sugar, boil it do'wn, and pour over the nuts, the same 
to be repeated on the third and fourth day. On the fifth day 
boil the walnuts again with the sugar for a few minutes, add- 
ing some cloves and stick cinnamon; and then put the nuts 
in glasses or jars. Let the sugar boil down, and when about 
the thickness of syrup, pour over the nuts. Let them be 
well covered with the syrup, and, when cool, close the jars 
lightly. If after three or four days the sugar should have 
become thin, pour off and boil once more. Then fill and 
close up your jars tightly. 

CHILI SAUCE. 

MRS. M. G. MOORE. 

Forty-eight ripe tomatoes, eight green peppers, eight large 
onions, eight teacupfuls of vinegar, eight tablespoonfuls of 
salt, eight tablespoonfuls of brown sugar, eight teaspoonfuls 
of ginger, eight teaspoonfuls of cinnamon, eight teaspoon- 
fuls of allspice, eight teaspoonfuls of cloves, eight teaspoon- 
fuls of Worcestershire sauce. Bake four hours. 

CHILI SAUCE. 

MISS LILLIE E. BASHFORD, OAKLAND. 

Nine large tomatoes scalded, two teacupfuls of vinegar, 
one onion chopped, three small peppers. Boil one hour; add 
one teaspoonful of cloves, one teaspoonful of allspice, two 
teaspoonfuls of sugar, one teaspoonful of ginger, two tea- 
spoonfuls of salt. 

MANGOES OF EITHER CANTALOUPE OR CU- 
CUMBER. 

MRS. ANNA OG1ER. 

To thirty cantaloupes, when green and about the size 
of a large apple which have been laid in salt brine for a 
fortnight and freshened with water till not too salt it will 
take the following ingredients: One pound of horse-radish, 
scraped and dried, one pound of ginger, soaked, dried, and 
sliced into thin pieces; half pound of white mustard-seed, 
the same of black, half pound of cloves, same of black pep- 
per grains, half pound of spice, in grains, one ounce of 



160 LOS ANGELES COOKERY. 

mace, two of nutmeg, one of cinnamon, and one of tumeric, 
half dozen large onions, chopped, two large bunches of cel- 
ery and an ounce of celery seed, and about two dozen cloves 
of garlic, which must be skinned, soaked, and dried. Put 
all these into a large vessel, with about five pounds of brown 
sugar, and mix with a bottle of good olive oil. Put a gal- 
lon of vinegar on to boil, with a little of the stuffing in it, 
and pour it over the mangoes, which must have a small slice 
taken out of them. Tie them up carefully with fine twine, 
to keep the juice on evenly. Let the vinegar cover the 
mangoes; cover over the top with a thick coat of the oil, 
and let them stand for three or four months undisturbed. 
My mother, who was a famous housekeeper, made her man- 
goes a year in advance, as they are greatly improved by age. 
Yellow oil mangoes require the same ingredients, with the 
addition of a bag of turmeric, which must be put in the jar 
of vinegar, with a few spices, and set in the sun for several 
months; and the mangoes must be taken out of the brine, 
and laid on a table on a cloth in the sun to bleach. This 
will, perhaps, take four days. You can bleach young corn 
arid beans to put in the stuffing. 

_^^^___ * O * -^ ^ 

SWEET PEAR PICKLES. 

MRS. K. M. WIDNEY. 

To one pint of good vinegar take four pounds of brown 
sugar, a quarter of a pound of cinnamon stick, and a quarter 
of a pound of cloves. Tie up the spices in small bags, and 
boil with sugar and vinegar till a good syrup is formed. 
Put in Bartlett or Sickle pears; place on the back of the 
stove; cover closely, and cook very slowly, until they can be 
pierced through with a straw. 

i O ' 



CHOWDER. 

MRS. C. G. DU BOIS. 

One peck of green tomatoes chopped fine, sprinkle a good 
quantity of salt over and let it stand till morning; then 
squeeze out all the juice. Add one dozen of green peppers, 
chopped fine, and some horseradish, and cover with weak 
vinegar, letting it come to a boil; then drain off, and mix 
with it two tablespoonfuls of cloves, four tablespoonfuls of 



LOS ANGELES COOKERY. 161 

white mustard-seed, three tablespoonfuls of cinnamon, and 
one tablespoonful of black pepper. Put into jars and cover 
with fresh vinegar. Onions chopped fine can be added, if 

\\\rtA 



liked. 



GRAPE CATSUP. 



L. M. THOMPSON. 

Five cupfuls of pulp or juice, one cupful of brown sugar, 
one cupful of vinegar, one teaspoonful of black pepper, one 
teaspoonful of cloves, one teaspoonful of cinnamon, and one 
teaspoonful of salt. Boil half away. 



FRENCH PICKLES. 

MHS. J. HINES. 



Take small onions, tomatoes, cauliflowers, and string- 
beans; cook them in salt and water; when done, bottle, and 
pour over boiled vinegar, which has been thickened with 
mustard. 



-:o:- 



MARTEN AS BEANS. 

MRS. ANNA OGIER. 

Pour boiling salt water over the beans every other day 
for two weeks; then boil chopped onions and sugar, accord- 
ing to the quantity of beans used about four pounds to a 
half peck. Put spices, pepper, cloves, and cinnamon in the 
vinegar, and pour over while boiling hot; repeat five or six 
times. A most delicious pickle, but resemble pickled rats. 

GREEN PEPPER PICKLES. 

MRS. M. G. MOORE. 

If you prefer your peppers less pungent, cut an opening 
in the top of each and take out half the seeds. Lay them 
for two weeks in salt and water, which will bear an egg. Be 
careful to keep them covered with the brim, by putting some 
weight on them, and take off the scum as it rises. If they 
are not yellow at the end of two weeks, let them remain a 
little longer. When yellow, take them out, wash and put 
them into a kettle with cold water, cover the tops with grape- 
vine leaves, and place near the fiie; let them get hot, but not 



162 LOS ANGELES COOKERY. 

simmer. When they are greened in this manner, take them 
out, drain, place them in your jars, and pour cold, spiced 
vinegar over them. If you wish to stuff them, chop some 
cabbage and green cucumbers very fine; season it highly 
with maoe, cinnamon, cloves and mustard-seed. Stuff each 
pepper with this preparation, and tie a thread around it. I 
find the Bell pepper here too mild to soak. 

:o: 

PICKLED LIMES. 

RELIABLE. 

Cut the limes and fill with salt; put them in the sun to 
dry, and when dry (in two or three weeks), wash off the salt 
and put them in a jar, in alternate layers with the following 
spices: allspice, cloves, white mustard-seed, and sliced 
horse-radish. Fill up the jar with hot vinegar, and let it re- 
main for about four weeks, when they will be ready for use. 

:o: 

CURRANT CATSUP. 

MRS. C. H. BRADLEY. 

Five pounds of currants, three pounds of sugar, one 
pint of vinegar, one tablespoonful of allspice, one table- 
spoonful of cinnamon, one tablespoonful of ground cloves, 
one-half tablespoonful of salt, and one-half tablespoonful 
of pepper. Boil two hours over a slow fire. 

1L -!!_ M-J-.J L * O" ^ ^"^^ 

SWEET-PICKLE PEACHES. 

MRS. ANNA OGIER. 

To seven pounds of fruit, four pounds of sugar, one quart 
of vinegar, and one-half pound of cloves and cinnamon. 
Put the vinegar, sugar, and spices on to boil. Pare the 
peaches and drop in, letting them boil till solt enough to 
pierce with a straw. Take them out, put them in a jar, and 
when the vinegar has boiled an hour longer, pour it over the 
peaches while hot. 

JL *O" - 

BLACKBERRY PICKLES. 

MRS. A. X. HAMILTON. 

Twelve pounds of blackberries, three pounds of sugar, one 
quart of vinegar, three ounces of cloves. Put all together 



LOS ANGELES COOKERY. 163 

in a porcelain kettle, and scald, but do not boil. Let them 
stand twenty-four hours; then pour out the vinegar from 
the berries, and scald; pour back; let stand twenty-four 
hours; then scald all together and they are done. 

:o: 

SPICED BLACKBERRIES. 

MRS. F. D. BOVABD. 

Take fresh, firm blackberries, and fill glass jars. Make a 
syrup of seven pounds of s^ugar, one pint of vinegar, ten 
cents worth of cinnamon bark, five cents worth of cloves. 
Boil ten minutes; pour over the berries, and seal. 

:o: 

SWEET-PICKLE DAMSONS. 

MRS. ANtfA OGIBR. 

Prick the fruit with a needle, to prevent their bursting; 
put them in a jar; boil a quart of vinegar to ten pounds of 
the fruit, four pounds of sugar, and two tablespoonfuls of 
ground cloves and cinnamon; pour it over the fruit, and let 
it stand till the third day; boil it again and pour it over the 
fruit; do this every third day till you have boiled and 
poured it over the fruit seven times, when it will be ready 
for use. 




164 



AD VERTISEMENTS. 




TO" riBIfllllfilYilil,: O 3 

PFI 

94 SPRING STREET- 




ALL KINDS OF 

<%^ 

, 



r 

DELIVERED IN ANY PART OF THE CITY. 

Wedding Cakes Made at the Shortest Notice 



& & 



DKALERS IN 




Jfe^a 




jw 

CLOTHING, FANCY GOODS. 

GENTS' FURNISHING GOODS, 

58 Main St., cor. Commercial, Hellman Block, 

LOS ANGELES, GAL. 

MRS, M, J, WlNFIELD, 

No. 6 TEMPLE STREET, 

(Opposite MIRROR OFFICE.) 

OF ALL KINDS. 

JEWELRY, SWITCHES, SARATOGA WAVES, ETC, 



AD VERTISEMENTS. 



166 



ANDREW'S CANDY FACTORY 






36 Main St., Grand Central Hotel Building. 

Fresh Candies Made Every Day from Pure Sugars. Posi- 
tively we Use no Adulterations. 





Spring St., Los Angeles. 



The Latest of Fashions. A Large and Well Selected Stock Constantly 
on Hand. Worn: done with NEATNESS and DISPATCH. 

Los ANGELES MILLS 



*+*-- 



LANKERSHIM & CO, 




SOLD AT ALL RETAIL STORES, 



Office: 49, SI & S3 Commercial St. 



166 LOS ANGELES COOKERY. 



CANDY DEPARTMENT, 

LEMON CANDY. 

MRS. M. M. BOVAKD. 

Stir briskly in a porcelain-lined saucepan two cupfuls 
of white sugar, one of water, and three tablespoon fuls of 
vinegar. Try in water, as for molasses candy; turn into 
buttered dishes, and work as soon as cool enough to handle. 
Flavor before pouring into the buttered dishes. The secret 
of success is not to stir after it begins to boil. 

POP-CORN CANDY. 

MISS MAMIE VAN DOEEN. 

Pop, salt, and pound the corn very fine; then take two 
cupfuls of molasses, ono cupful of sugar, one teaspoonful 
of vinegar, and cook until done; then add one teaspoonful 
of butter, and stir well a moment or two; then stir in your 
corn until thick. Remove; do not pull, but when cold cut 
into square pieces. 

BUTTER-SCOTCH. 

MISS BEETHA LINDLEY. 

Three tablespoonfuls of molasses, two tablespoonfuls of 
sugar, two tablespoonfuls of water, one tablespoonful of 
butter. Add a pinch of soda before taking up. 

CREAM CANDY. 

MES. GEN. STONEMAN. 

To three pounds of white sugar pour water enough to 
cover, and let the sugar dissolve well. Boil it up once and 
skim clear, then put in one large tablespoonful of flour, with 
a little water, and about one-third of a pound of butter. 



LOS ANGELES COOKERY. 167 

Just before it is taken from the stove put in a tablespoonful 
of vanilla. Try it in cold water, to see if it is done. Pour 
it in well-buttered dishes, or on a marble-slab. Use great 
care in pulling it, so as not to twist it. Wash your table and 
sprinkle it with powdered sugar; let the candy lay on it till 
perfectly stiff; then put it in a glass jar. In moving the 
boiled sugar be very careful not to jar it, as it would candy it. 

TAFFY. 

MRS. S. B. CASWELL. 

Two cupfuls of brown sugar, two tablespoon fuls of mo- 
lasses, two tablespoonfuls of butter, and two tablespoonfuls 
of water. 



CHOCOLATE CARAMELS. 

RELIABLE. 

One cupful each of grated chocolate, milk and molasses, 
one and one-half cupfuls of sugar, a piece of butter the size 
of an egg. Melt the butter, then put in the sugar; when 
this boils, put in the other ingredients, adding, after a while, 
a tablespoonful of vinegar. Boil till it drops hard. 

CORN-BALLS. 

MRS. S. B. CASWELL. 

One-half cupful of molasses, one-half cupful of sugar, 
one-half cupful of water, and a piece of butter about the 
size of a walnut. 

CREAM CANDY. 

MISS MAMIE VAN DOREN. 

Two cupfuls of molasses, one cupful of sugar, half cup- 
ful of milk or cream, a lump of butter the size of an egg, a 
little soda and a little lemon. 

SUGAR CANDY. 

MISS EMMA BRADLEY. 

Stir half cupful of cold water in three cupfuls of white 
sugar, and boil slowly, stirring constantly. Test by a few 



168 LOS ANGELES COOKERY. 

drops thrown into a cup of cold water. When nearly done, 
add a pinch of soda and a teaspoonful of butter. 

CHOCOLATE CANDY. 

MISS EMMA BEADLE y. 

Two large cupfuls of brown sugar, one large teaspoonful 
of butter, half cupful of water, and a cupful of grated 
chocolate. Pour thin upon buttered plates, and when nearly 
cold, score in squares. 



COFFEE, 

TO BROWN COFFEE. 

MRS. C. G. DU BOIS. 

Take Java, or one part of Java and one part of a good 
article of Rio; pick out all the black grains, stones, etc.; 
wash clean, drain, and put into a pan, placing it in a slow 
oven until the grains become a dark yellow; then increase 
the heat, as the grains should brown and swell rapidly, be- 
ing careful not to let them burn or look as if the oil had 
come to the surface. Stir frequently. It is done when you 
can crack the grains by pressing hard between your thumb 
and finger, and should be of a light brown color. Before 
taking from the oven stir in a little butter, letting it dry in 
for a minute or two; then place in a can immediately, cov- 
ering tight. 

_ *O" -- 

COFFEE. 

MRS. I. R. DUNKELBERGER. 

Equal weights of old Java and Mocha will insure 
strength and aroma. If a roaster is not available, the coffee 
should be dried in an oven, with the door open, one or two 
hours before roasting; then set on the fire in an iron pan and 
stirred constantly until it becomes a light brown. To ascer- 
tain positively when it is done, bite one of the lightest col- 
ored kernels; if it is brittle, the whole is done. To make 
one quart of coffee grind one large cup of coffee, put it into 
the pot with one egg and sufficient cold water to moisten the 



LOS ANGELES COOKERY. 169 

whole, and allow it to stand until the coffee swells; then pour 
on boiling water, and place it over the fire long enough to 
reach the boiling point; take off; let it stand five minutes; 
turn it off into another pot, and send it to the table to be 
served with boiled cream. Coffee is best when roasted, 
ground and made within one hour. A few minutes before 
taking from the fire stir in a piece of butter, half the size of 
an egg. Be sure it is thoroughly incorporated, and it will 
tend to preserve the strength of coffee, browned to last several 

days. 

o* _, 

CARE OF COFFEE-POT. 

MBS. K. M. WIDNEY. 

Never allow cold coffee or grounds to remain in your 
coffee-pot. Empty, wash thoroughly, and dry well, as soon 
as the meal at which you have used coffee is over. If cold 
coffee remains it can be used to wet the fresh-ground coffeo 
for the next morning. A fruitful cause of much of the poor 
coffee is a poorly-kept coffee-pot. 

TO MAKE COFFEE. 

MRS. C. G. DU BOIS. 

Take two heaping tablespoon fuls of ground coffee to 
each pint of water; stir into this the white of an egg, and 
dampen with cold water; upon this pour the boiling water, 
and let it boil fifteen or twenty minutes, keeping it so close 
that the steam and aroma cannot escape. Take from the 
stove, pour in a little cold water to settle it, and after stand- 
ing a moment or so it is ready to serve. An excellent way 
to get the pure aroma is to reserve one-third of the coffee, ad- 
ding it about five minutes before removing from the stove. 



ADDENDA- 
REMEDY FOR MOTHS. 

MRS. M. G. MOORE. 

One ounce of gum-camphor, one ounce of powdered-shell 
of red pepper; all macerated in eight ounces of strong alco- 
hol for several days, and then strained. With this tincture 



170 LOS ANGELES COOKERY. 

the furs or clothes are sprinkled and rolled up in sheets. It 
does not stain. 



ORANGE ICE. 

MRS. L. CHEEK. 

The juice of six oranges and two lemons, mixed with 
one pint of cold water, in which has been dissolved one 
quart of sugar. Freeze the same as ice cream. 

QUICK PUFFS. 

MRS. H. K. "VV. BENT. 

One <pgg, one cupful of flour, and one cupful of sweet 
milk. Beat the egg very light; add the flour and milk grad- 
ually, to prevent lumping, and pour in very hot gem irons. 
This should make eighteen or twenty puffs. 

Q" 

TO REMOVE FRUIT, COFFEE OR TEA STAINS. 

L. M. THOMPSON. 

Hold the spot over a pail, and pour boiling water, from 
a considerable height, through it. , Soap sets the stains, and 
should never be allowed to touch them. 

o* 

OX-TAIL SOUP. 

MRS. J. E. HOLLENBECK. 

One joint of beef, well filled with marrow, and two ox- 
tails, cut up small. Let it come to a boil; skim it well; let 
it boil an hour and a half; then cut up half a pound of okra 
small; put in salt, a little red pepper, and a handful of rice. 
The vegetables are to be put in whole and removed with the 
beef when the soup is done. Let the soup boil five or six 
hours. 



BEST HOP YEAST. 

MRS. C. G. DU BOIS. 

Take five potatoes and one handful of hops, and boil in 
two quarts of water. After mashing the potatoes, add one 
tablespoonful of flour, one of molasses, half cupful of brown 
sugar, and half cupful of salt. Scald all with the two 
quarts of water. When cool add one teacupful of yeast; 
leave it in a warm place for twenty-four hours, stirring of- 



LOS ANGELES COOKERY. 171 

ten. It will not rise, but ferment. The oftener it is stirred 
the better. Then jug it. 

1 ___ . /\ _._.-._ 

ICE CREAM. 

MRS. L. CHEEK. 

One quart of good cream, a large coft'ee cupful of sugar; 
well-beaten, and flavor to taste. 

*Q* 

PRESSED BEEF. 

MRS. H. K. \V. BENT. 

The best piece for this purpose is what is called at the 
market a "shank." Boil till the meat is ready fall from 
the bones, and remove from the kettle to cool. Boil down 
the broth to about a pint, and add half a box of Cox's gela- 
tine, soaked till soft. Chop the meat including the fat and 
soft gelatine very fine, and season to taste with salt, pep- 
per, made mustard, and herbs. Pour over it the broth, pack 
closely, and set aside, under a heavy weight, till next day. 
It will turn out solid, and shave in thin slices. 



CAMPHOR ICE. 

MRS. L. CHEEK. 

Two ounces of almond oil, two ounces of spermaceta, one 
ounce of camphor gum, one ounce of white wax; melted 
together. 

A* ^ ^ 

SUNDAY MORNiNG MUFFINS. 

MRS. H. K. W. BENT. 

One tablespoonful of butter, two-thirds .of a cupful 
of sugar, two eggs, one cupful of sweet inilk, three cupfuls 
of flour, and one teaspoonful of baking-powder. Drop in 
hot gem irons and bake brown in a quick oven. 

INVINCIBLES. 

RELIABLE. 

When the dough for light bread is ready for the oven, 
take a sufficient quantity and roll it out about one-eighth o* 
an inch thick; cut in squares or lengths of two or three 
inches; bake in a dry frying-pan on top of the stove, over a 
hot fire. To be eaten hot, with sweet butter. 



172 



AD VERTISEMENTS. 



H. ERDMAN & CO, 




71 Main St., Downey Block, 
LOS ANGELES, CAL. 

E man who has more wants than anybody else in 
Los Angeles is HORATIO MARTEEN, at No. 8 
Aliso Street, and although he has stacks of gold coin, and 
will freely distribute them to those who will aid in supplying 
those wants, yet it seems the demand is greater than the 
supply. Here are a few of his wants. 

Millions of Empty Bottles. 

Thousands of Tons of Rags, Old Ropes, Iron, Brass, 
Copper, Zinc, Lead, and Second Hand Clothing, ad infini- 
tum. Ergo. 




