
ERY Daw \\ THE KiTce 



ui 



AND 



What She Learned There. 




^^''Av 



J ' By Mrs. Lucy W. Bostwick. 



' MAY 31 ]m. 



AUBURN, N.Y. : 

KNAPPdkPECK, Book and Job Printers. 

1881. 



7h 



A^ 



6 



^♦^ 



\ 



Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year i38o, by 

MRS. LUCY W. BOSTWICK, 
In the Office of the Librarian of Congress, at Washington. 



INDEX. 



SOUPS. 

Pafje. 

Beef 5 

English Beef, .5 

Mutton, 5 

Vermicelli 5 

Green Corn, 6 

Mock Turtle, 6 

Black Bean, 

Bean, 6 

Tomato, 7 

Pea 1 

Oninn, 7 

Turkey, 8 

Black,, 8 

While Almond, « 

Potato, 8 

Noodles for Soup 9 

Bread-Dice for Soup, ... 9 

OYSTERS, CLAMS, FISH. 

Stewed O.vsters. . 9 

Cream Oj'Sters, 9 

Panned Oysters, 10 

Fried Oysters 10 

Pickled Oysters, 10 

Deviled Oystern, 10 

Escaloped Oysters, 10 

Fricasseed Oysters, 11 

Oyster Omelette, 11 

Oyster Pie 11 

Oyster and Clam Scallop, 11 

Clam Soup, 12 

Stewed Clams, 12 

Clam Fritters, 12 

Susan's Clam Chowder, . 12 

Fish Chowder, 13 

Broiled Sardines 13 

Scalloped Salmon, 13 

Fish Turbot, 13 

Broiled Codfish 14 

Codfish Croquettes, 14 

STEWS, ETC. 

Brown Stew 14 

Stewed Kidneys 15 

Liver Hash, 1.5 

Beef Liver, 15 

Sweet-Bread and Peas, . . 15 

Fried Sweet-Bread, 16 

Mock Duck 16 

Cream Beef 16 

Deviled Beef 16 

Veal Ovsters, 16 

Beef Loaf, 17 

Veal Loaf, 17 

Chicken Croquettes, 17 

Veal Croquettes 17 

A la Mode Beef, 17 

Deviled Ham, 18 

French Sandwiches 18 



VEGETABLES. 

Page. 

Green Corn Cakes, 18 

Carrots a la Francaise, . . 19 

Cooked Celery, 19 

Turnips 19 

Baked Tomatoes, 19 

Baked Corn, 19 

Parsnips, 20 

Spinach 20 

Green Peas, 20 

Green Corn 20 

Cauliflower, 20 

Cabbage a la Cauliflower, 20 

Vegetable Oysters 21 

Scalloped Potatoes, 21 

Broiled Potatoes, 21 

Potatoes Boiled in Lard,. 21 

Potato Puff, 21 

Stuffed Potatoes, 22 

Potatoes in Jackets, 22 

Stir'd Potatoes with Eggs 22 
A Vegetable Shape, 22 

PICKLES, CATSUPS, . 
SAUCES. 

Pickled Cucumbers 23 

Green Tomato Pickles.. . 23 

Chow-Chow, 23 

Red Cabbage Pickled,. . . 24 

Chili Sauce, 24 

Tomato Catsup 24 

Pickled Peaches, 24 

Pickled Cherries 25 

Spiced Currants, 25 

Spiced Plums 25 

Grape Catsup, 25 

Currant (Catsup 26 

BREAD, BISCUIT, ETC. 

Graham Gems, 26 

Vanity Puffs, 26 

Waftles 26 

Richmond Muffins, 26 

Fried Rye Muffins 27 

Muflins 27 

Baking Powder Muffins,. 27 

Breakfast Cakes, 27 

Sally Lunn, 27 

Fritters 28 

Parker House Rolls, 28 

French Rolls, 28 

Soda Biscuit ^8 

Crackers, 28 

Graham Crackers,, 29 

Boston Brown Bread,.... 29 
Steamed Brown Bread, . . 29 

Johnny Cake, 29 

Southern Corn Pone, ... 30 

Corn Dodgers, 30 

Gr. Corn Griddle Cakes,. 30 



Page 
Indian Griddle Cakes, ... 30 
Rusk, 30 

PIES. 

Pie Crust, 31 

Puff Paste, 31 

Cream Pie 31 

Grant's Lemon Pie, 33 

Lemon Pie, 32 

Marlborough Pie, 32 

Cocoanut Pie, 32 

Mince Pie, 33 

Fried Apple Pie, 33 

Aunt Naomi's Cream Pie, 33 

Pie-Plant Pie 83 

Pumpkin Pie 34 

Almond Cheese Cakes, . . 34 
Cheese Cakes, 34 

PUDDINGS AND DESSERTS. 

Favorite Pudding, 34 

Sponge Pudding, 35 

Plunf Charlotte 35 

French Custard, 35 

Fig Pudding 35 

English Plum Pudding,. 36 

Saratoga Pudding, 36 

Margie's Brown Betty,.. 37 
Green Corn Pudding, .... 37 
Grandma's Baked Indian 

Pudding 37 

Katie's Cup Custards, ... 37 
Steamed Graham Pud'g,. 38 

Batter Pudding 38 

Cottage Padding 38 

Gingerbread Pudding. ... 39 

Tapioca Pudding 39 

Charlotte Russe Pudding, 39 
Peach Tapioca Pudding, 39 

Queen of Puddings 39 

Her Majesty's Pudding. . 40 
Steamed Apple Pudding, 40 

Tekla's Pudding 41 

Chocolate Pudding 41 

Royal Diplomatic Pud'g, 41 

German Sauce 42 

No-Name Pudding 42 

Harvard Sauce 42 

Benara Buns 42 

Velvet Cream 43 

A Beautiful Dessert 43 

TipseyCake 44 

Boiled Custard 44 

Roman Cream 44 

Prussian Cream 44 

Coffee Blanc Mange .... 44 

Potato Pudding 45 

Strawberry Charlotte.... 45 

Charlotte Rnsse \'S 

Orange Pudding 46 



INDEX. 



Page. 
riiilaiU'lptiia PiKldin^... 4() 
Apple S!i;,'o Piiddintr ... 40 
Apjilc Tapioca Pudding. 47 

Hasty Piiddiiii,' 47 

Corn-Starch I'liddinj; 47 

One- E'.'j.' Bread Pudding, 47 

l)eln\iiinc() Puddinij 47 

Lemon I'uddini; 48 

Mock Plum Pudding 48 

German PuffH 48 

Maple Sugar Sauce 49 

Wine Sauce 49 

Every Day Pudd'g Sauce 49 

Vanilhi Sauce 49 

Lemon Sauce 49 

Cream Sauce 50 

Fairy-Butter 50 

SALADS. 

Salad Dressing 50 

Grand Union Mayonnaise 

Dressing 51 

Cabbaire Salad 51 

Hot Cabbage Salad 51 

Chicken Salad 51 

Sweet-Bread Salad 52 

Lobster Salad 53 

Veal Salad 52 

Salmon Salad 53 

French Salad 53 

Potato Salad 53 

Tomato Salad 53 

Asparagus Salad 53 

ICE CREAMS, ETC. 

Ice Cream .. 54 

White Ice Cream 54 

Caramel Ice Cream 54 

Chocolate Ice Cream ... 54 

Lemon Ice 55 

Lemon Sherbet ,55 

Orange Sherbet 55 

Pineapple Sherbet 55 

Sherbet ,56 

Frozen Oranges 56 

Frozen Strawberries .56 

Fruit Frappers 56 

JELLIES AND PRESERVES. 

Lemon Jelly 5fi 

Orange Jelly 57 

Wine Jelly." 57 

Jelly Oi augcs 57 

Orange a la Surprise ,58 

Whipped Cream 58 

Moonshine 59 

Lemon Honey 59 

Grated Pineapple 59 

Brandy Tutti Fruitti 59 

Brandy Peaches 60 

Orange Marmalade 60 

Preserved Blackberries.. 61 



CAKES. 

Parje. 
White Mountain Cake. .. 61 

Neapolitan Cake 6 J 

Lincoln Cake 62 

Cocoanut Cake 62 

California Cocoanut Jel- 
ly Cake 62 

Clav Cake 62 

Tri-Color Cake 63 

E.xcelsior Sponge Cake.. 63 

Sponge Cake.... . 63 

Drop Sponsre Cake or 

Lady's Fingers 63 

Seneca Sj)onge Cake 64 

Almond Sponge Cake. ... 64 

Pound Cake (.4 

Measure Pound Cake.. .. 64 

Orange Cake 65 

Orange Wafers, 65 

Madalins 65 

Chocolate Layer Cake,.. 65 

Chocolate Cake 66 

Chocolate Eclair Cake, .. 66 

Jenny Lind Cake, 66 

Pearl Cake, 66 

Cinnamon Bunn, 66 

Spanish Bunn 66 

AnLrel's Food Cake, 67 

Rosy Morn Cake 67 

Sunshine Cake.. 67 

English Walnut Cake,... 67 
Miss Eliza Horner's Cup 

Cake, 68 

Snow Balls 68 

(iarfield's Whim.*.— 1881, 68 

Quick Loaf Cake, 6S 

Imperial Cake, 68 

California Fiir Cake, 68 

Delicate Cake 69 

Tumbler Fruitcake 69 

Wedding Cake 69 

White Fruit Cake 69 

Black Cake 70 

Hartford Election Cake 

—"Extra." 70 

Golden Jumbles 71 

Jumbles 71 

Almond Cookies 71 

Love Knots 71 

New Year's Cakes 71 

Gingerbread 72 

Katie's Ginger Snaps. .. . 72 

Bath Ginger Snaps 72 

Bolivars 72 

Fairy Gingerbread 72 

Mrs. Dr. Eudd's Ginger 

Cake-18i7 73 

Molasses Cakes 73 

Cinnamon Sand Tarts.. . . 73 

Doughnuts 73 

Crullers 73 

Dominoes 74 

Boiled Frosting 74 



Frostmg 74 

Chocolate Frosting 74 

Ciolden P'rosting 75 

Nut Frosting 75 

Cochineal Syrup 75 

CANDIES. 

Molasses Candy, 75 

Molasses Taffy, 76 

Butterscotch, 76 

Pea-Nur Candy 76 

Horehound Candy, 76 

Pop Corn Balls 76 

Vanilla Sugar Candy,... 77 

Wintergreen Candy 77 

French Cream Candy, .. 7T 

Peppermint Creams, 78 

Wintergreen Creams,... 78 

Fruit Cream, 78 

Nut Creams, 78 

Walnut Creams, 78 

Panache Cream 78 

Chocolate Creams, 79 

Cocoanut Cakes 79 

Chocolate Caramels, 79 

SUGGESTIONS FOR THE 
SICK ROOM. 

Invalid's Bill of Fare. ... 80 

Beef Tea 81 

Chicken Broth, . 81 

Mutton Broth, 81 

Water Gruel, 81 

Raisin Gruel 81 

Oatmeal Grnel 81 

Buckwheat Gruel, 81 

Flaxseed Tea 82 

For Hoarseness, 82 

Coueh Syrup 82 

Cure for a Felon 82 

Cholera Infantum, 82 

Hop Bitters, 82 

Sago Jelly, 83 

Panada 83 

Arrow-Root Custards. ... 83 

Baked Milk 83 

To Check a Cold 83 

SUNDRIES. 

For Corning Beef, 84 

French Mustard, 84 

Lemonade 84 

Guava Jelly Punch, ... .84 

Ginger Cordial 84 

Sarsaparilla Syrup, 85 

Fine Cologne Water, ... 85 

Recipe for Yeast, ^5 

Tooth Powder, 85 

Something Worth Know- 
ing 86 

College Hill Pie- Plant Pie 86 
Weis,'hts and Measures,. 86 



SOUPS 



Beef Soup. 

Take a shank of beef with plenty of meat upon it and boil 
live or six hours the day before using. The next day skim off 
the grease, put the jelly in the sou}) kettle, and one hour before 
serving add turnips, carrots, onions, and cabbage chopped fine 
in quantity desired ; a few tomatoes and a little celery improve 
it. Season with pepper and salt. Drop in a few noodles. 
Three tablespoonfuls of rice may be added with the vegetables. 

English Beef Soup. 

Three pounds of lean beef cut fine, one carrot, and one tur- 
nip cut fine ; put in a saucepan and fry brown ; then put them 
in a o-allon of watCT and boil until all are well cooked. Season 
with pepper and salt. Add one glass of sherry wine. 

Mutton Soup. 

Boil a leg of mutton three hours, and take the water for the 
soup, season with pepper and salt. Add a small cup of barley 
or rice, as preferred, throw in a little chopped parsley, if liked, 
and boil about an hour. 

Vermicelli Soup. 

Boil a shank of veal in three qiuarts of water, three hours 
with one whole turnip, onion and carrot, then strain, and add a 
small cu]) of vermicelli, and boil three-quarters of an hour. 
Season with pepper and salt ; if the water boils away add mora 



6 m.\U(;ki{V daw ix the kitchkx. 

Green Corn Soup. 

Take one dozen ears of corn, scrape the cobs and boil them 
twenty minutes in one quart of water. Remove tlie col^s, ])nt 
in the corn and boil lifteen minutes. Add two <|uarts of rich 
milk seasoned with salt, pepper and batter, and thicken with 
two tablespoonfvils ol flour. Boil ten minutes, turn into a 
tureen in which are the well beaten j-olks of three eggs. 

Mock Turtle Soup. 

One quart of black beans and live pounds of lean beef. Put 
into the soup kettle in the morning in cold water sufhcient for 
the quantity of soup desired, and cook slowly all (hiy. Strain 
through a sieve. Add salt, ite]:»per,, and plenty of cloves, to 
taste. Let it stand all night. When desired to serve cut two 
lemons into thin slices, put them into the tureen and pour over 
them the soup. 

Black Bean Soup. 

One quart of black beans, one pound of lean beef, one-half 
pound of salt pork, three quarts of water. Soak the beans all 
night, and in the morning pour off. the water and put them in the 
soup kettle with three quarts of cold water, in which are the 
meat and pork. Boil three or four hours, adding water as it 
boils awa3^ Slice some lemon into the tureen before serving, 
also some bread cut into small pieces, and fried in butter. 
Strain through a colander into the tureen. 

Bean Soup. 

Soak one quart of beans over uight in cold water ; in the 
morning pour off the water, and put them in a kettle with four 
quarts of water, boil until soft enough to pass through the col- 
ander. Season with ])epper and salt, and a piece of butter the 
size of an eifg, or boil with the beans a piece of salt jiork. 
Throw pieces of bread cut into small ])ieces and fried in butter, 
into the tureen, and strain the soup uj)on them ; if the soup is 
too thick, add boiling water. 



SOUPS. 7 

To:\[ATO Soup. 

Put one quart of water into a kettle, and when boiling add 
one quart of tomatoes. When it boils again put in one tea- 
spoonful of soda; as soon as it is done foaming add one pint of 
milk, four rolled crackers ; season with butter, pepper, and salt, 
and serve very hot 

Tomato Soup. 

One and onedialf pounds of lean beef in one gallon of water 
boiled down to three pints ; add one quart of tomatoes, one cup 
of sweet milk, two tablespoonfuls of flour rubbed into a piece 
of butter the size of an egg. Then boil one hour; less will do. 
Season with pepper and salt and strain through a colander. 

Pea Soup. 

One quart of split peas soaked over night in two quarts of 
water. In the morning pour off the water and put the peas in 
the soup kettle with four quarts of water. Let them boil un- 
til cooked enough to pass through the colander; about two 
hours. As soon as it begins to boil cut up one large onion and 
fry brown in a spider with a piece of butter the size of a large 
egg, and put into the kettle .with the soup. Strain and season 
with salt and pepper before serving. As the water boils away 
add more. A couple of slices of salt pork or a little beef stock 
is a great improvement. 

Onion Soup. 

Put a piece of butter the size of a small egg into a saucepan ; 
when very hot add two or three large onions sliced thin. Stir 
and cook them well until they are red ; then add half a teacup 
of flour ; stir this constantly until it is red. Do not let it burn. 
Now put in a pint of boiling water, and add pepper and salt. 
Mix it well and let it boil one minute. Pour it into the soup 
kettle and set it on the back of the range until nearly time to 
serve ; then add one quart of boiling milk and two or three 
well mashed boiled potatoes. Add to the potatoes a little of 
the soup, at first, then more until thin enough to put into the 



8 MAROERY DAW IN THE KITCHEN. 

soup kettle. Stir well together and season with pepper and 

salt. It requires plenty of salt. Pat pieces of toasted bread, 

cut in diamond shape, in the bottom of the tureen, pour over 

them the soup, strain through a colander, and serve very hot. 

This soup is improved b\^ using soup stock instead of water, or 

the water in which a chicken has been boiled, can be saved for 

this ])ur[)ose. 

Turkey Soup. 

Place the frame of a cold turkey, with the remnants of dress- 
ing and gravy in a pot, and cover with cold water, simmer 
gently three hours, let it stand till the next day. Remove the 
fat skim off all the bits and bones. Put the soup on to heat, 
until it boils ; then thicken slightly with flour wet with water, 

and season to taste. 

BuACK Soup. 

Boil a shank of beef five or six hours in water enough to 
cover it ; salt and skim well. Remove the meat, and thicken 
with one or two tablespoonfuls of browned flour mixed in cold 
water; season with pepper, salt, nutmeg, and cloves. A little 
tomato catsup improves it. Just before serving, throw into the 
tureen a few small crackers and thin slices of lemon. 

White Almond Soup. 

A shank of veal put into five quarts of cold water and boiled 
down to four ; put one carrot, one bunch of celery, one good 
sized onion, and two cloves into a bag, and ])ut them into the 
soup kettle W'ith the veal and boil half an hour, or until the 
flavor is extracted ; then take them out, there being no further 
use for them. When the liquor is boiled down to four cjuarts 
set it aside until the next day. When you wish to serve, put 
the jelly into the soup kettle, and add two ounces of blanched 
almonds chop|)ed fine, and half a pint of sweet cream. Cook a 
few moments, and send to the table. 

Potato Soup. 

Ten large potatoes boiled soft ; pour off the w^ater and mash. 
Add one-fourth pound of butter and })Ouron three pints of cold 



SOUPS. 9 

inilk : let it come to a boil, stirring to prevent burning. Sea- 
son with pepper and salt : put some toasted crackers or bread 
fried in batter into the tureen, and strain the soup on to them 
through a colander. Serve hot. 

Noodles for Soup. 

Take one egg, two tablespoonfuls of flour, a small teaspoon- 
ful of baking powder, a little salt : Beat the egg light, stir the 
flour with the baking ].)owder and salt, add the egg. Ten min- 
utes before serving the soup, drop this batter from the spoon 
into it. 

Bread-Dice for Soup. 

Take slices of stale bread cut in small squares; throw into 
hot lard and fry nntil brown. Skim out, drain, and put into 
the soup tureen before serving the soup. Crackers crisped in 
the oven are nice to serve with oj^ster son}i. 



OYSTERS, CLAMS, FISH, 



Steaved Ovstehs. 

Take one quart of oysters and one dozen clams (more if 
liked). AVash the oysters and put tliem into a kettle with one 
pint of boiling water. Add the clams and their liquor ; let 
them come to a boil. Add a little milk (cream if you have it) 
l)utter, pepper, and salt, with two rolled crackers. Let them 
boil only two or three minutes. 

Crea:\[ Oysters. 

Take one quart of fine large oysters ; wash and drain : one 
pint of cream (milk will do, \vith more butter). Put the oysters 
and cream into separate kettles to heat. The oysters, when the 



10 MARGKKY DAW IX THE KITCHEN. 

edges curl, are to be taken from the juice in the kettle and ])ut 
on a platter to keep warm ; tluMi take crackers rolled very line 
and sift into the cream or milk. Add the oyster juice, season 
with pepi)er and salt to taste, and more or less butter as the 
richness of the cream may require. Pour the cream ovei" the 
o^^sters, and serve, very hot. 

Panned Oysters. 

Wash the oysters and })ut them in a stew pan witliout water. 

Cook them only two or three minutes. Season with butter, 

pepper, and salt. Serve in hot oyster plates, as thej^ must be 

eaten hot. 

Fried Oysters. 

Take count oysters, drain them from their liquor, and di}i 
them first in beaten egg and then in rolled cracker, and fry in a 
spider or on a griddle in hot butter and lard (equal parts). 

Pickled Oysters. 

Scald fine large oysters in their own liquor; as soon as they 
come to the boiling point take them out with the skimmer and 
lay them smooth on platter. Take part of the liquor in which 
the oysters have been cooked, and add vinegar according to its 
strength, having enough to cover the oysters. Put with the 
liquor some whole pepper, cloves, alls})ice, and a few blades of 
mace. Put the oysters into a tureen or stone jar, and pour 
over them the vinegar and spices, scalding hot. Set them aside 
to cool. Use none but cider vinegar, as acid will eat the 

oysters. 

Deviled Oysters. 

To one quart of chopped oysters, add six tablespoonfuls of 
rolled cracker, four tablespoonfuls of melted butter, half a tea- 
spoonful of salt, one-fourth teaspoonful of pep})er. Bake in 
hot oyster shells fifteen or twenty minutes. 

Escaloped Oysters. 

Put a layer of cracker crumbs in the bottom of a baking dish, 
then a layer of o^-sters ; next a layer of cracker crumbs with 



OYSTERS, CLAMS, FISH. 11 

salt, pepper, and small pieces of butter sprinkled over, and so 
on until the dish is fall, having cracker crumbs, \Yith pepper, 
salt, and butter for the top layer. Then pour over all one cu}) 
of milk, and bake fort}^ minutes. 

Fricasseed Oysters. 

Wash one rpiart of oysters and drain in the colander; put a 
tablespoonful of butter in a spider, and when brown put in the 
03'sters. As soon as they commence to cook, add another table- 
spoonful of butter well mixed with a small tablespoonful of 
flour. Add one tablespoonful of cream or milk into which one 
egg has been beaten. When this has come to a boil, pour over 
toast and serve hot. Season with pepper and salt. 

Oyster Omelette. 

Beat six eggs sejiaratel}^ ; add, by degrees, one gill of cream 

to the beaten yolks; season with salt and pepper, add the 

whites, well beaten. Have ready one dozen large oysters cut 

in half. If the oysters are smaller, more can be taken, and 

chopped. Pat into a sauce pan to heat, one tablespoonful of 

butter; pour the eggs into it ; drop the oysters on evenly. Fry 

a light brown, then set in the oven to brown the top, or turn as 

an ordinary omelette. 

Oyster Pie. 

Line a deep dish with rich pie crust; lay a plate on top of 
the dish. Upon this place a top crust for the pie and bake it. 
While the crust is baking, wash and drain one rpiart of oysters. 
Cook them in a stew pan for three minutes. Season with but- 
ter, pepper, and salt, to taste. Add one tablespoonful of cream 
if you have it. If not, use milk. When the crust is done take 
off the crust on the plate and then fill the pie with the oysters 
prepared, place the top crust over them, and it is ready to serve. 

Oyster and Cla:\[ Scallop. 

Take one quart of oysters and one pint of clams ; put a layer 
of cracker crumbs into the bottom of a baking dish, then a 



12 MAIiOKRV DAW" IN' TIIK KITCIIEN", 

laver of oysters and clams, inixetl ; (the clams can be chopped, 
or not, as j)re{erred), then a layer of cracker crumbs, witli pep- 
\)cv and pieces of bntter, and so continue until the dish is full. 
J\)ur over the whole a cu]) of milk. Some of the clam juice 

can be used. 

Clam Soup. 

Wash fifty clams, ])iit them in a })ot and cover them with 
water: let them boil, and as soon as the shells open take them 
out with a skimmer. Chop the clams, strain the water they 
were boiled in, and return it to the kettle; add the chopped 
clams, one quart of milk, pej^per and salt, (not much salt) one- 
fourth ])Ound of butter, and thicken with rolled cracker. 

Stewed Clams. 

Take the clams from the shells, as many as you wish, put 
them into a stew pan with their own liquor, butter and pepper. 
Let them stew slowly. Butter some slices of toast, and })our 
them over it. Serve in a deep dish. 

Claim Fkitters. 

Two dozen clams chopped. Stir into them three well beaten 
eggs and three tablespoonfuls of their own liquor; add flour 
enough to make a thin batter. Fry in a spider, in hot butter 
and lard. When bi'own on one side, turn the other side. 

Susan's Cla]\[ Chowder. 

Fift\' clams chopped fnie ; an equal quantity in measure of 
chopped onions, small round crackers, eight slices of pork fried 
crisp in a s})ider, taken from the grease and chopped fine. (The 
grease is not used). ''J^ake a kettle and put in layers; first 
pork, then clams, then onions ; next crackers and little l)its of 
butter, salt and pepper. (Not much salt.) So continue luitil 
all is u.sed. Pour on clam juice enough to moisten, and set the 
kettle on the back of the range. If you should not have suffi- 
cient clam juice, add a little water. Cook three hours. Do not 
stir it. When done, take one and one-half cups of clam juice 



OYSTERS, CLAMS, FISH. 13 

thickened with a Httle flour, and put in two tablespoonfuls of 

Worcestershire sauce. When hot pour over the chowder and 

serve. 

Fish Chowder. 

Take four slices of salt pork and fry brown in the bottom of 
the pot, and pour off the grease ; chop the pork fine. Put in 
the bottom of the pot a layer of haddock, or fresh cod ; any 
other firm, fresh fish will do, cut in thin slices ; next a layer of 
crackers with some of the chopped pork and thin slices of onion, 
then fish, and so on until the whole is used. Season with pep- 
per and salt; pour over hot water enough to cover well, and 
boil one hour. Serve hot as soup. 

Broiled Sardines. 

Select fine large sardines; take them from the box with care ; 
wipe the oil from them ; dip them first in egg and then in 
rolled cracker, and fry in a spider in hot buttei', and serve on 
toast. 

Scalloped Salmon. 

Take salmon, (canned will do) picked up fine, taking care to 
remove all the bones; put a layer of cracker crumbs in a bak- 
ing dish, then a layer of salmon with pieces of butter, pepper, 
and salt, with a little milk ; then another of crumbs, another of 
salmon, and so on until the dish is filled, having cracker crumbs 
and pieces of butter on the -top : add milk enough to make it 
quite moist, then bake in a quick oven half an hour. 

Fish Turbot. 

Four pounds of white fish boiled twenty minutes in salted 
water ; pick out the bones, skin, and break in small })ieces and 
set it aside to cool. 

One pint of sweet milk, one teaspoonful of onion chopped 
fine, two tablespoonfuls of chopped parsley, one heaping tea- 
spoonful of thyme, two-thirds of teacup of butter, one large 
tablespoonful of flour, two eggs, one tablespoonful of cold 
water. When the milk boils, stir in the onions, parsley, and 



14 -^lAEGERY DAW IX THE KITCIIEX. 

thyme. Hub butter and flour together, tlien let it boil ; beat 
up the egg with the water, and stir in slowly just before taking 
from the lire. Salt the Ijoiled lisli and dressing. When both 
are })erfectly cold, put in a l)aking dish first a layer of fish, then 
a layer of dressing, until all is used ; cover the top with rolled 
cracker ci-umbs and small pieces of buttei*. Bake three-quar- 
ters of an hour in a moderate oven. 

Broiled Codfish. 

Take a nice piece of salt codfish, remove the skin, wash it 
and lay it on the gridiron and broil, turning it as often as ne- 
cessary to prevent burning. It requires broiling twenty min- 
utes. (It is a very nice relish for tea, for those who are fond 
of salt fish.) 

CoDP^isH Croquettes. 

One and three-fourth pounds of mashed potatoes, one pound 
of salt codfish, four ounces of butter, one gill of cream or milk, 
a half teaspoonful of pepper, one egg. Pour cold water on the 
fish ; let it come to a boil and then pour off the water ; melt 
the butter in the hot potato, add the fish, cream, and pepper; 
beat very hard and light with a fork until perfectly smooth. 
Make into balls, drop in hot lard like doughnuts, or fry in hot 
lard in a spider. 



STEWS, ETC. 



Browx Stew. 

One pound of beef cut in small pieces and browned in a hot 
spider with one tablespoonful of butter, one tablespoonful of 
flour sifted in gradually, and stirred until brown. Add one 
carrot cut into thin slices, two medium-sized onions sliced, three 
whole cloves, three allspice, pe])per and salt, to taste. Cover 



STEWS, ETC. 15 

with boiling water and simmer steadily three hours. Just be- 
fore serving, add two tablespoonfuls of tomato catsup, and a 
glass of sherry, if you like. 

Stewed Kidneys. 

Cut beef kidneys into inch square pieces, removing every 
particle of fat and gristle. Pour cold water over them and 
wash thoroughly, once, in hot water. Let them boil about 
three hours, or until they are tender. Do this the day before 
if desired for breakfast. In the morning take the kidnej's and 
the water in which they were boiled ; let them stew until just 
before breakfast is served, adding butter, pepper and salt, to 
taste. Stir a little flour in c;)ld water and add to thicken the 
grav}". Serve hot with baked or stewed potatoes. 

Liver Hash. 

Take calf's liver and parboil it in water fifteen minutes, when 
cold, chop fine. Put into a stew pan with water enough to 
cover it. Season with butter, pepper and salt, to taste, and 
thicken with a little flour. A little sweet cream is a great im- 
provement. This is a nice dish for breakfast or supper. 

Beef Liver. 

Take beef liver, lay it on the meat board, and scrape with a 
large knife, removing the pipes and strings. Put it in a bowl, 
season well with pepper and salt, beat in one egg, dro]") from 
the spoon into a spider with hot butter and lard. Cook well 
and turn. This is the best way to cook beef liver. 

Sweet-Breads and Peas. 

Boil the sweet-breads in water with a little salt fifteen min- 
utes. Make a white gravy, with half a cup of milk, butter and 
salt, thicken with one teaspoonful of flour. Cook the sweet- 
breads in this a few minutes. Serve on a platter with green 
peas around the outside edge. Canned French peas may be 
used. 



16 makcekv ])a\\' ix hie kitchen. 

Fkiei) Sweet-bheads. 

Wasli the swoet-breads in salt and water, and parboil twenty 
minutes. Either cut them in two. nv in smaller pieces, dip in 
egg', then in rolled cracker crundjs, ami fi'v in a spider in hot 
butter and lard. 

Mock Duck. 

Have a round beef steaic cut an inch thick. La}' on the 
meat board, remove tlic bone, sew ii[) the open places. Make 
a dressing of bread crumbs well sea.soned with jiepper and salt, 
and two small chopped onions. Pack the dressing thick in the 
middle of the steak, roll up and sew together. Put into a ket- 
tle on the top of the range, with just enough water to keep it 
from burning, adding more as it boils awa}'. Cook slowly three 
hours, turning often that it may brown nicel\^ on all sides. Re- 
move the steak to the platter, taking out the threads ; thicken 
the gravy slightl}'' witli Hour, and pour part over the meat, 
serving the rest in o gravy dish. 

Cream Beef. 

Throw dried beef, shaved very thin, into boiling water, let it 
stand a few moments, pour off the water, and add good rich 
cream, letting it come to a boil. If you have not cream, use 
milk and butter thickened with a ver}- little fiour. Sea.son with 
pepper, and serve on toast or not, as you please. 

Deviled Beef. 

Take slices of cold rare I'oast Ijcef, lay them on the bi'oiler 
over very hot coals, and broil quickly ; season with })epper and 
salt, laying a piece of butter on each, serving very hot. 

Yeal Oysters. 

Select nice white veal, cut into pieces the size of large oysters, 
pound well and dip into beaten egg, then into rolled, cracker 
and fry in hot lard, as oysters. A most delicious manner of 
cookino; veal. 



stews, etc. 17 

Beef Loaf. 

Three pounds of raw beef chopped line, one slice of pork, 
cliopped, three soda crackers rolled fine, one egg, one-half cup 
of milk, one tablespoonful of melted butter, one tablespoouful 
of salt, one teaspoonful of pepper. Mix well togethei-, pack 
into a tin, and bake two hours. 

Yeal Loaf. 

Three pounds of raw veal cutlet chopped line, two slices of 
salt pork chopped, two eggs, three teaspoonfuls of salt, one of 
pepper, two slices of bread crumbed fine, one-half cup of cream 
or milk. Make into a loaf, dredge with flour, and bake three 
hours. It is nice to put hard boiled eggs through the loaf. 

CiiiCKEisr Croquet'ie^. 

Three cups of chopped chicken, one cup of soft bread 
crumbs, two eggs, pepper and salt to taste. Mix well together 
and form into pear shaped balls. A little cliopped parsley 
may be added. Roll them in egg, then in cracker, and fry in 
lard in a wire basket, as doughnuts. 

Yeal Croquettes. 

Two pounds of well cooked veal, chopped very fine, season 
with pepper and salt, onion and parsley. Two eggs, one table- 
spoonful of butter, one tablespoonful of flour mixed well to- 
gether ; over this pour boiling water till well thickened. Stir 
this mixture well through the chopped meat and set it aside to 
cool. Beat an egg, form the dressed veal into cones the size of 
an egg, dip into the beaten egg ; roll in cracker crumbs, and 
fry in hot lard (in a wire basket) as you would doughnuts. 

A LA Mode Beef. 

Cut from the round, as heavy a piece as you would like. 
Take out the bone, and fill the place with bread crumbs, sea- 
soned with pepper and salt. Slash the top, insert blocks of salt 
pork an inch square, leaving them high over the beef; place 



18 MAUGERY ])AW IX THE KITCHEN. 

more dressing, leaving the pork to sliow through. Scatter 
whole cloves and blades of cinnamon over all, and around the 
sides of the beef stick in whole cloves. Put a band of clotli 
tightly round the beef to make it small and round, and fasten 
it closely to keep in shape. Put a })int of ])ort wine in a round- 
bottomed kettle, })ut in the beef, cover and let it stew slowly 
three or four hours, adding more wine should it cook away. 
Eemove the cover, ])ut the kettle in a hot oven to brown the 
dressing, then trim oil: the bits of pork, leaving them white. 
Add wine to the gravy in the kettle to make as much as want- 
ed, stir in a glass of currant jelly, also lay spoonfuls of jelly 
over the top of the beef, and garnish the platter with slices of 
lemon, and parsley. 

If desired, the wine can be omitted in cooking, using water 
instead, adding a cup of grape, currant, or sherry wine, before 
thickening. The wine may be entireh' omitted if desired. 

Deviled Ham. 

Use both the lean and fat ham, chopping fine. Season with 
salt, pepper, mixed mustard and' a trifle of vinegar. For sand- 
wiches, spread between thin slices of bread and butter. 

Feench Sandaviches. 

Remove the skins from sardines, picking them up fine. Add 
to them some finely chopped lean ham ; put with them, also, 
some ver}' fine chopped pickles. Mix all well with ma^'inaise 
dressing. Spread between thin slites of bread and butter. 



VEGETABLES. 



Green Corn Cakes. 

Six ears of corn grated, one tablespoonful of flour, the yolks 
of two eggs, a little salt. Fry in hot butter and lard. 



vegetables. 19 

Carrots a La Francaise. 

Scrape the carrots, cut the small end into two pieces and the 
larger end into eight pieces. Boil in water with a dessertspoon- 
ful of salt and a tablespoonf ul of sugar one hour. Drain on a 
cloth ; put them in a stew-pan with a piece of butter, and shake 
then! over the fire until the carrots have nearly absorbed the 
butter. Pour in half a pint of new milk and simmer gently 
one hour. Beat the yolks of two eggs, after having taken the 
carrots from the milk and put them in a vegetable dish ; stir 
the eggs into the milk, simmer two minutes and pour over the 
carrots. 

Cooked Celery. 

Cut the celery into pieces half an inch long, throw them 
into boiling water with a little salt, and boil three-quarters of 
an hour ; drain off the water and })our on cream if jow have it, 
if not, milk enough to cover it. Season with butter, pepper, 
and salt, to taste.- It is not necessary to use the choicest pieces 
(^f celery. 

Turnips. 

Take the flat turni})s, pare them, cut them into half-inch 
cubes, throw them into boiling water with a little salt and let 
them boil one and one-half hours. Drain off the water, add cream 
or milk, butter, pepper, and salt, to taste. Only the flat tur- 
nips are good to cook in this manner. 

Baked Tomatoes. 

Take a baking dish and put lirst a layer of tomatoes, either 
fresh or canned, a layer of onions sliced thin, a layer of bread 
and butter with pepper and salt, then another layer of tomatoes, 
onions, and so on until the dish is filled. Bake one and one- 
half hours. 

Baked Corn. 

Fill a baking dish with corn, cut or scraped from the cob. 
Cover the corn with milk, season with butter, pepper and salt, 
and bake two hours. 



20 margery daw ix the kitchen 

Parsnips. 

Three medium-si/ed parsnips boiled until tender, and mash- 
ed. Season with butter, pe])j)er and salt, and stir in a lightly 
beaten egg. Make into Jlat cakes and fry brown in a hot greas- 
ed spider. 

Spinach. 

Wash thoroughly and carefully, throwing it into just enough 
salted water to cover it. Boil about a half hour. When ten- 
der, squeeze dry in a clean towel, or colander, season with but- 
ter, pepper and salt. Serve with sliced hard boiled eggs over 
the top. A nice salad dressing may be served with it. 

Green Peas. 

AVash the ])ods, throw them into boiling water, and boil till 
tender, then skim them out, and put the peas into the same water 
and boil till tender. Season with butter, pepper, and a little 
salt, with a triile of sugar. 

Green Corn. 

Remove the leaves and silk. Cook in boiling salted water 
from fifteen to twenty minutes. Serve hot from the kettle, on 
a platter between napkins. 

, Cauliflower. 

Remove the outside leaves, and boil the cauliflower in salted 
water, taking care to remove it as soon as tender, that it ma}' 
not fall to pieces. Take two tablespooufuls of butter, and when 
hot in the sauce jmn, stir in three tablespooufuls of flour, stir- 
ring constantly until cooked. Add two teacupfuls of thin 
cream, seasoned with pepper and salt. Stir it over the lire un- 
til perfectly smooth. Pour the sauce over the cauliflower and 

serve. 

Cabbage a la Cauliflower. 

Cut the cabbage fine as for slaw, cover with water in a stew 
pan, and keep closely covered. When thoroughly cooked, pour 
off the water, add a piece of butter with a little salt, one-half 



VEGETABLES. 21 

cup of cream, or one cup of milk, let it remain on the range a 
few moments before serving. 

Vegetable Oysters. 

Wash and scrape them well. Cut into small round pieces, 
boil them an hour or until tender in sufficient water to cover 
them thoroughly. Pour off the whole, or a part of the water, 
as desired add cream or milk. Season well with butter, pep- 
})er, and salt. And if desired, thicken wdth flour well mixed 
with cold water. 

Scalloped Potatoes. 

Pare the potatoes, cut them in thin slices ; put a layer in a 
pudding dish, sprinkle with flour, pepper, salt, and small pieces 
of butter, then another layer of potatoes, flour, pepper, salt and 
butter, and so on until the dish is filled. Pour overall the milk 
the dish will hold. Bake two hours in a moderate oven. 

Broiled Potatoes. 

Large cold boiled potatoes cut lengthwise in slices a quarter 
of an inch thick, and broiled on the gridiron. Take from the 
fire and place on each a piece of butter, pepper and salt. Serve 

very hot. 

Potatoes Boiled in Lard. 

Choose very small potatoes, scrape or pare them very smooth, 
so that they will be round ; drop into boiling lard and cook a 
light brown. Serve the same as Saratoga potatoes. 

Potato Puff. 

Boil the potatoes in salted water, drain off the water and dry 
them a few minutes. Mash them perfectly smooth. To a pint of 
mashed potato put two tablespoonfuls of butter and beat with 
a large fork, until light and creamy ; add the yolks of two eggs, 
a small cup of rich milk, and lastly the whites of two eggs beat- 
en to a froth. Beat each ingredient in before adding the next. 
Add more salt if needed ; put in a buttered baking-dish, bake 
in a quick oven until nicely browned. The more thoroughly 



22 MARGEllY DAW IN THE KITCHEN. 

" it is beaten the better. This same potato is very nice shaped 
in cones and browned in the oven. 

Stuffed Potatoes. 

Take five Lirge potatoes, and scrape a hole in each ; fill it 
with meat chopped fine, seasoned with butter, pepper, salt, and 
a little chopped onion. Bake in a quick oven. 

Potatoes in Jackets. 

Select fine large potatoes and bake them ; take from the oven 
while hot, cut an oval piece from one side, remove the inside, 
taking care not to tear the skins. Put them in a dish, season 
with butter, pepper, salt, and a little cream or milk ; add one 
or two eggs. Beat all thoroughly together with a fork. Fill 
the skins, place a small piece of bntter on each, return to the 
oven until brown and serve on a platter. 

Stirred Potatoes with Eggs. 

Six or eight cold boiled potatoes chopped fine, heat the sauce 
pan, pnt into it a piece of bnttel* the size of an egg. When 
melted, stir in the chopped potatoes, stirring and browning 
them well ; then pour in three or four beaten eggs, stirring them 
well through the potatoes for two or three minutes, then serve. 

A Vegetable Shape. 

Boil spinach, carrots and tnrnips in separate kettles. Drain, 
mash and season the same quantity of each. Take a hot mould 
or vegetable dish well buttered, and put in first a layer of tur- 
nip, then one of carrot, and lastly, one of spinach ; })ack well, 
then turn from the mould on a plattin*, and serve. 



PICKLES, CATSUPS, SAUCES. 23 



PICKLES, CATSUPS, SAUCES. 



Pickled Cucumbers. 

Wash and wipe the cucumbers and place in a stone jar. To 
one gallon of the best cider vinegar add one teacup of salt, two 
red peppers cut line, one-fourth pound of white mustard seed, 
one-fourth ounce of ginger root, a piece of alum the size of a 
butternut, one teacupful of horse-radish root, not grated. Other 
spices may be added if desired. Bring the ingredients to a boil, 
pour over the cucumbers, ctn'cr closely, and they arc finished. 

Geeex To.mato Pickles. 

One peck of green tomatoes, six large onions, a teacu})fal of 
salt. Put into a jar and let them remain over night. In the 
morning cook them in three pints of vinegar and water twenty 
minutes, and drain. Boil four quarts of vinegar, one-fourth 
pound of white mustard seed, two green peppers sliced, two 
tablespoonfuls each of allspice, cloves, cinnamon, ginger and 
mustard, and pour hot over the tomatoes. 

Chow-Chow. 

Two large heads of cabbage, one-half peck of small onions, 
thirt}^ large cucumbers, two heads of cauliflower, ten green pep- 
pers, six red peppers, one pint of grated horse-radish, one-half 
pound of white mustard seed, one ounce of celery seed, one-half 
teacup of tumerick, two boxes of mustard, one-half pint of salad 
oil. Chodthe cabbage, cut the cucumber in inch square pieces, 
break the cauliflower in pieces, chop the peppers with some of 
the cabbage, as it will prevent the tears of the chopper from flow- 
ing. Be sure and throw away the seeds. Add a teacupof salt and 
pack down in a stone jar. In the morning drain off the brine ; 
take one part of vinegar and two of water, pour on hot, and let 
it itand two days. Drain, add tlie spices and other ingredients. 



24 MARGERY DXW IX THE KITCHEN". 

Boil six quarts of vinegar with throe pounds of sugar and pour 
on scalding hot for three mornings; then mix one pound of 
ground mustard with one-lialf pint of salad oil ; mix thorouo-h- 
Jv and add to the ehowchow when cold. 

Hed Cabbage Pickled. 

Slice the cabbage very fine, one head of red cabbage, to two 
or three of white cabbage, mix in a little salt. Scald two quarts 
of vinegar, add two tablespoonfuls of sugar. Put into a bag 
one tablespoonful of cloves, one of ground cinnamon, and half 
a teaspoonful of ground black pepper. Scald the spices in the 
vinegar, when cold pour the vinegar over the cabbage in a jar, 
and drop in the bag of spices. Keep the whole well covered 
with vinegar putting a plate over to hold it down. 

CiiiLi Sauce. 

Twenty-four ripe tomatoes, four green peppers, four onions, 
two tablespoonfuls of salt, four tablespoonfuls of sugar, four 
cups of vinegar. Peel the tomatoes and slice them, chop the 
13e])pers line, and if not liked tod flerj', remove the seeds. Chop 
the onions. Pat the ingredients into a porcelain kettle with 
the sugar and vinegar and boil three hours. Bottle and seal 
(Will mould if exposed to the air.) 

Tomato Catsup. 

Take tomatoes when fully ripe, wash and slice them, put in- 
to a jar in alternate layers of tomatoes and salt. Let them stand 
four daj'S, stirring each day to prevent fermentation. On the 
fifth day [)ut into a porcelain kettle, boil twenty-five minutes, 
put them through a colander, then back into the kettle and boil 
until reduced one-half. To each quart add one teaspoonful of 
mace, two of cloves, two of black pe})per, a half teaspoonful of 
cayenne, if liked. Bottle and cork tight. 

Pickled Peaches. 

Eight pounds of peaches, four pounds of sugar, one pint of 
vinegar Kub the peaches with a coarse cloth. Stick two 



FICKLES, CATSUPS, SAUCES. ^5 

whole cloves in each peach. Put the vhiegar and sugar with a 
small handful of broken bits of cinnamon, in a porcelain kettle 
upon the range. When the sjrup is made put the peaches into 
it, and i-emove the kettle to the back of the range, and let them 
cook slowly there nearly half a da}^, do not stir them. Skim 
the peaches carefull}'' out, and put them into a stone jar. If the 
syrup seems thin, boil it until richer and pour it hot over the 
peaches. 

Pickled Cherries. 

Take six pounds of Cherries, removing the pits, three pounds 
of sugar, a coffeecupful of vinegar, when the syrup is hot, throw 
in the cherries adding a litle cloves, and some small pieces of 
cinnamon ; let the whole boil about a half hour, then skim out 
the fruit. If the syrup is not sufliciently rich, boil longer, then 
])Our over the cherries and cover. 

Spiced Currants. 

Eight pounds of currants, four pounds of sugar, one coffee- 
cup of vinegar, two tablespoonfuls of cinnamon, one of allspice, 
one of mace, onedialf tablespoonful of cloves. Put the currants, 
sugar and vinegar into the kettle and boil ten minutes. Skim 
out the currants, put in the spices, and boil from half to three 
quarters of an houi'. Pour over the currants, and put in a jar 
with brandied paper over the top. 

Spiced Plums. 

Eight pounds of plums, four pounds of sugar, one teaspoon- 
ful of cloves, two of cinnamon, one teacupful of vinegar. Cook 
until as thick as jelly. 

Gkape Catsup. 

Five pounds of grapes, two and one-half pounds of sugar, one 
pint of vinegar, one tablespoonful each of cinnamon, cloves, all- 
spice and pepper, one-half tablespoonful of salt. Boil the grapes 
until soft, then ])ut them through the colander. Put back into 
the kettle with the sugar, vinegar and spices. Boil it until it 
thickens, and bottle. 



26 MARGERY DAW IN THE KITCIIEX. 

CuKRANT Catsup. 

Five pounds of currants freed from the stems, two jwunds of 
brown sugar, one pint of vinegar, one tablespoonful each of 
cinnamon and cloves, one teaspoonful of salt. Boil one hour. 
Keep in scaled jars in a cool }ilace. 



BREAD, BISCUIT, ETC. 



Grahai^i Gems. 

Two coffeecups Graham flour and one pint of cold water 
stirred well together at night. Next morning add butter the 
size of a large walnut, salt, and two heaping teaspoons of bak- 
ing powder. Put into heated gem-irons and bake in a hot 
oven, 

Graham Gems. 

One cup of Graham flour, one cup of fine flour, two eggs, two 
cups of sweet milk, one-fourth teaspoonful of salt. Bake in hot 
gem irons twenty minutes. 

Vanity Puffs. 

One})intand two tables])oonfuls of flour, one pint of milk, two 
eggs well beaten, a little salt. Stir well together and bake in 
cups or pattj-pans three (piartcrs of an hour. 

Waffles. 

One })int of sour milk, two tablespoonfuls of melted Initter, two 
eggs beaten separately, one teaspoonful of soda, one pint of flour, 
a little salt. Beat well together and bake. 

Richmond Muffins. 

One quart of milk, one pound of flour, one-half cup of yeast, 
three eggs beaten se}\arately, four tablespoonfuls of lard and but- 
ter mixed. Set to rise over night ; in the morning, let them 
stand one hour in the rino-g before bakino-. 



bread, biscuit, etc. 27 

Fried Eye Muffins. 

One and one-half cups of rye flour, one and one-half cups of 
wheat flour, one cup of sweet milk, two eggs, two tablespoonfuls 
of sugar, three teaspoonf uls of baking powder, one-half teaspoon- 
ful of salt. Mix the baking powder with the flour and sift into 
the rye ; add sugar and salt. Beat the eggs light, add the milk to 
the eggs and stir into the dr}' mixture. Drop this batter by 
small spoonfuls into a spider with hot lard, and fry ten or fif- 
teen minutes. 

Muffins. 

Two cups of milk, two tablespoonfuls of melted butter, one egg, 
two-thirds teaspoonful of salt, one-half cake of yeast Stir in 
flour until it just drops, not runs, from the spoon. Beat until 
smooth. Let it rise over night and in the morning drop into 
rings carefully. Bake twenty minutes or half an houi. 

Baking Powder Muffins. • 

One pint of milk, one quart of sifted flour, three teaspoonfuls 
of baking powder, one tablespoonful of melted butter, two eggs 
beaten very light, a little salt. Bake in rings twenty minutes, 
either on the griddle or in the oven. 

Breakfast Cakes. 

One cup of milk, one pint of flour, three eggs, a piece of but- 
ter the size of an egg, three teaspoonfuls of baking powder. 
Bake tw^enty minutes, in muffin rings. 

Sally Lunn. 

Three eggs, one-half cup of butter, one cup of sweet milk, 
three cups of flour, two tablespoonfuls of sugar, three teaspoon- 
fuls of baking powder. Bake in round loaf about half an hour. 

Sally Lunn. 

One quart of sweet milk, four eggs, one-half pound of but- 
ter, one teacup of yeast, or one yeast cake, one-half pound of su- 
gar, flour enough to make as stiff as bread dough. Mix over 



28 :NrAllGERY DAW IX THE KITCHEN". 

night. Beat tlie butter, sugar and eggs light, warm the milk, 
dissolve the yeast cake in warm water, stir the flour into the 
milk until quite stiff, add the yeast, mix in the butter, sugar 
and eggs. Add more flour if necessary, to make as stiff as 
bread dough. Bake for lunch or tea in a round tin. 

Fkitters. 

One pint of sweet milk, two eggs beaten very light, one salt- 
spoon of salt, four teacups of flour with two teaspoonfuls of 
baking powdei-. Drop from a spoon into very hot lard. Serve 
with mn])le syru]>, or with ])ulverized sugar and wine. 

Parker House Rolls. 

Into three pints of flour rub one tablespoonfu.1 of lard. Make 
a hole in the flour, and put into it one pint of cold, boiled milk, 
one-half cup of sugar, one-half cuj) of yeast, a little salt. Do 
not stir it. In the morning knead lightly, and let it rise until 
noon, then knead again and make up into long rolls, to rise un- 
til tea-time. Bake in a quick oven twent^y minutes. They 
can be rolled long or cut round, spread with butter and lapped 

over if preferred. 

French Eolls. 

Two cups of light dougli, two tablespoonfuls of sugar, two 
of melted butter, one egg. Roll thin, cut round, and lap over. 
Let them rise, and bake in a quick oven. 

Soda Biscuit. 

One quart of flour, a piece of butter the size of an egg, well 
rubbed together ; three teaspoonfuls of baking powder sifted 
into the flour, one and one-half cups of cold milk. Mix quite 
soft, stir all together with a fork ; n^ll out and bake quickly. 

Crackers. 

Take a piece of bread dough. When light, spread it with 
bits of butter and lard, a sprinkle of salt ; roll and pound well 
with the rolling pin. Spread with more shortening, and dust 



BREAD, BISCUIT, ETC. 29 

over with dry flour. Use very little more shortening, than for 
biscuit. Eoll and pound in flour enough to make them cracker 
like. The more they are pounded the better. Break oS. small 
pieces ; put a pinch of dr}^ flour in each, and make up into lit- 
tle balls, leaving the dry ffour in the center. Roll out thin and 
large. Mark them with the end of a clock key. Bake in a 
hot oven. • 

Graham Crackers. 

One pint of sweet cream, one quart of Graham flour, a little 
salt. Roll as thin as a wafer, cut in squares and bake in a hot 
oven. 

Boston Brown Bread. 

Two cups of r3-e flour and one cup of Indian stirred together. 
Add onedialf a cup of molasses, one-half cup of raisins, two 
cups of sour milk, two teaspoonfuls of soda, (sweet milk Avill 
do with three teaspoonfuls of baking powder.) Put the mix- 
ture into a tin pudding mould with a tube in the centre, and 
boil four or five hours. If desired for breakfast, boil the day 
before, leaving it in the tin, and putting it into boiling water to 
heat. 

Steamed Brown Bread. 

One cup of Indian meal, one cup of Graham flour, one cup 
of sour milk, one-half cup of molasses, one teaspoonful of soda, 
one saltspoon of salt. .Mix the Indian and Graham flour to- 
gether, add the sour milk, molasses and salt. Dissolve the 
soda in a little hot water. Beat all thoroughly together and 
steam in a buttered pan one and one-half hours. 

Johnny Cake. 

One pint of sour milk, or butter-milk, one egg, three table- 
spoonfuls of flour, one teaspoonful of salt, one teaspoonful of 
soda dissolved in hot water, one tablespoonful of sugar, mix the 
egg, milk and flour, and add enough meal to make a thick bat 
ter, and finally add the salt and soda ; Beat very rapidly and 
bake quickly and steadily. 



30 margery' daav ix the kitchen. 

Southern Corn Pone. 

One quart of milk, one quart of Indian meal, one tablespoon- 
ful of sugar, one teaspoonful of salt, two eggs, three tcasjioon- 
fuls of linking powder. Sour njilk may be used if jircfcrrcd, 
with two tcaspoonfuls of soda. Use the 3'ellow meal and l)cat 
until put into the oven. 

Corn Dodgers. 

Five tablespoonfuls of Indian meal and one tablespoonful of 
flour mixed together. Mix over night with enough boiling 
water to cover. In the morning })ut in one egg, one teaeu]) of 
milk, a little sugar and salt. Bake in muffin rings on a griddle. 

Green Corn Griddle Cakes. 

Twelve ears of corn grated, two eggs, two tablespoonfuls of 

flour, one tablespoonful of sugar, one teaspoonful of salt. Stir 

well together and bake on a hot griddle. They must be well 

cooked. 

Indian Griddle Cakes. 

Scald one pint of Indian meal, do not make it two wet, add 
one coffeecupfull of sour milk and a teaspoonful of salt, butter- 
milk is better if you have it ; stir in the milk a teaspoonful of 
soda, add a small cup of flour, and beat well ; If the batter 
should be too thick, add more sour milk. Bake well on a hot 

griddle. 

Eusk. 

To three cups of bread dough add two eggs beaten separately, 
jne cup of fine, w^hite sugar, half a cup of butter and lard mixed. 
Stir and knead w^ell, so the color will be even ; add sufficient 
flour to roll out and put in a covered dish to rise. When light, 
roll and cut into cakes a little more than an inch thick, and put 
in the pan to rise. It will take much longer than biscuit, and 
they must be very light. Bake, and glaze the top wdth yolk of 
esf"; and molasses mixed. 



PIES, 31 



PIES 



Pie Crust. 

One coffeecup of butter, one of lard, one of water and four 
of flour. Cut the shortening into the flour with a knife, have 
the water as cold as possible and mix quickly. Take a new 
slice of paste each time for the top crust, using the trimmings 
for under crust. This will make four pies. 

Puff Paste. 

One pound of flour, one pound of butter, yolks of two eggs. 
Prepare the butter by washing in several waters, and then press- 
ing in a soft cloth. Break or cut a few bits lightly into the 
flour ; do not rub it in ; mix with the egg and water into a 
smooth dough. Turn this out upon the board, roll into a sheet 
and put into the middle of this the rest of the butter shaped in- 
to a somewhat flattened ball and slightly floured. Fold the 
paste evenl}^ over this ball of butter and roll out. Cut the 
sheet into quarters and pile one upon another and roll out again. 
Repeat this process until you have given the paste five or six 
turns, as it is called, when it will be read}" for use. In making 
a smaller quantity as many turns will not be required. In 
summer it will be found necessary to use ice freel}^, in order to 
be successful in making this paste. Harden the butter before 
beginning to make it and cool the paste upon ice between the 
turns. A marble slab is desirable for a moulding board. The 
paste should be baked in a quick oven, and a piece one-fourth 
of an inch in thickness should rise in baking to tw^o inches, and 
should be a meve puff of flakes. 

Cream Pie. 

One pint of cream, yolks of three eggs, six to eight table- 
spoonfuls of sugar, one teaspoonful of butter, one small tea- 



32 MAHtiERY DAW IN THE Kll'CIIEX. 

spoonful of corn-starch, whites of live eggs, and five dessert 
s})oonfnls of pulverized sugar for meringue. Vanilla flavoring. 
Stir butter and sugar together as for cake ; beat the corn-starch 
into the 3^olks of the eggs until perfectly smooth ; then stir 
these two compounds together, add one teaspoonful of vanilla, 
and lastlv })ut in the cream, a little at a time, stirring well be- 
tween. Fill a shell of puff paste and bake half an hour, or un- 
til set, when cover with the meringue and i-eturn to the oven 
to l)ake a fawn color. The reci])e for this })ie, l)oth paste and 
filling, is very choice. 

Grant's Lemon Pie. 

The juice and grated rind of two lemons, one large cup of 
suo-ar, one cup of raisins seeded and chopped, two eggs beaten 
separately, two tablespoonfuls of grated cocoanut or cracker if 
perferred, three tablespoonfuls of water. Bak ^vith two crusts. 

Lemon Pie. 

Two lemons, one large cup of sugar, three eggs, one table- 
spoonful of corn-starch, one cup of cold water. Grate the rind 
squeeze the juice and put the lemon skins in the cold water; 
boil to extract all the juice. Squeeze out the skins and while 
boilinfy add the starch, dissolved in cold water. Take from the 
fire and while hot add the yolks of the eggs, beaten light, with 
the sucrar. Bake with one crust. Beat the whites to a stiff 
froth, add two tablespoonfuls of sugar and spread on the pie 
.when taken from the oven. Put back in the oven until slight- 
ly brown. 

Marlborough Pie. 

One pint of tart apples, stewed and |)nt through the colan- 
der, two eggs beaten light, w^th one cu}) of sugai', (if the apples 
are very tart more sugar must be added,) one tablespoonful of 
butter, nutmeg to taste, the juice and rind of one lemon. Bake 

with one crust. 

Cocoanut Pie. 

Make a nice custard of four eggs to a quart of milk and 
sweeten to taste. Bake with under crust only. When baked 



PIES. 33 

put on a frosting made of the whites .of four eggs and four 
tablespoonfuls of sugar and return to the oven until a light 
brown. While hot sprinkle over it fresh grated cocoanut. 

Mince Pie. 

Two bowls of meat chopped fine, one bowl of chopped suet, 
four bowls of apples, three and one-half pounds of raisins and 
currants seeded, onedialf pound of citron, one dessertspoonful 
of cloves, four talr)lespoonfuls of cinnamon, one coffeecup of 
molasses, two bowls of sugar, a little salt, one pint of ])randj, 
( less will do.) Mix with boiled cider, then cook ten or fifteen 

minutes. 

Fried Apple Pies. 

One cup of sugar, one coffeecup of sweet milk, three table- 
spoonfuls of melted butter, two heaping teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder, one egg, a little nutmeg. Add flour enough to roll out. 
Ilave read}^, dried sour ap|)les, stewed and seasoned, make into 
small turnovers, using the apples hot. Fry in hot lard as 

doughnuts. 

Aunt Naomi's Cream Pie. 

Two eggs, a little salt, and one cup of maple sugar, grated and 
stirred together. Then add as much sweet cream as your pie 
dish, lined with rich pastry, will hold. 

Pie-Plant Pie. 

Line your pie plate with pie crust, cut fresh pie-plant into 
small pieces, filling the dish very full, heaping it up as it 
shrinks in cooking. La}'' in small pieces of butter, one coffeecup 
of sugar, dredge a little flour over the whole, and cover with an 
upper crust. To keep the juice in the pie where it belongs, 
take a strip of cotton cloth one inch wide, and long enough to 
go round the pie and lap, wet this cloth in cold water and lay 
it around the edge of the pie, half on the crust and half on the 
plate, press it gently on the crust and on the plate. When the 
])ie is taken from the oven, remove the cloth. This will apply 
to any juicy pie. 



34 makgeky daw in the kitciiex 

Pumpkin Pie. 

One pint of stewed pumpkin, two or more eggs, sweeten with 
molasses and sugar to taste, one pint of rich milk, or cream, 
which is better. A little salt, season with cinnamon or nutmeg 
and ginger also if liked, stir well together and bake with one 
crust only,, in a deep pie dish, and in a quick oven. 

Almond Cheese Cakes. 

Beat the whites of three eggs to a stiff froth, add one-quarter 
of a pound of sugar beaten lightly in. The juice of half a 
lemon, and the grated rind of a whole lemon. Blanch one-half 
pound of almonds, chop them very fine and stir into the above 
mixture. Line patty-pans with puff paste, or ricli pie crust, and 
put into each, one or two spoonfuls of the mixture. Bake in a 
moderate oven. Serve on a napkin on a platter. 

Cheese Cakes. 

Eoll out some pastry very thin, cut it into pieces six inches 
long and four inches wide. Spread with quince, strawberry 
or other jam ; roll it over and over and bake quickly. 



PUDDINGS AND DESSERTS, 



Favorite Pudding. 

One cup of sugar, one cup of milk, one egg, two tablespoon- 
fuls of melted butter, two cups of flour, two teaspoon fuls of bak- 
ing powder ; flavor with nutmeg. Put fruit, oranges, peaches, 
cherries, or any preserves in the bottom of a pudding dish, an 
inch or more deep, then pour the mixture on top and bake. 
Turn from the dish and serve with fruit on top. Serve with 
sauce. 



puddings and desserts. 85 

Sponge Pudding. 

One pint of sweet milk, one-half cup of sugar, one-half cup of 
flour, one-half cup ol; butter, f]\^e eggs. Wet the flour with 
part of the milk, then cook it in all the milk ten minutes ; add 
the butter and sugar while hot. When cool add the yolks of 
live eggs well beaten, then add the beaten whites ai^d stir thor- 
oughly. Bake in a two quart basin, set in a pan of hot water, 
half an hour. Serve with butter and sugar sauce. 

Plum Charlotte. 

Take fresh plums if in season ; if not, one quart of canned 
plums. Put them in a pan on the range ; when hot add sugar 
to make them sweet and rich. Cut three or four slices of light 
bread, trim off the crust and soak in the juice one slice at a 
time. Take a dish or mould, first put in some of the plum, 
then a slice of the bread that has been soaked in the juice ; then 
some of the plum, then another slice of the bread until all is 
used. If any juice remains pour it over the whole and set it 
aside in a cool place. It is well to let it stand until the next 
day, as it is to be eaten cold. Turn from the mould on to a 
platter and serve with cream. It is very nice without cream- 

French Custard. 

Scald one quart of milk, add one half cup of sugar, a pinch 
of salt; beat well the yolks of four eggs, stir gradually in, and 
just allow it to thicken. Strain, and flavor when cold. Beat 
the whites to a stiff froth. Sweeten or not, as ]3referred. To 
make quince custard beat quince jelly with the whites of the 
eggs. Other jellies may be used in the same manner. Serve 
in a glass dish. The whites may be cooked as in floating island 
if preferred. 

Fig Pudding. 

One-half pound of butter, one half pound of figs, cut small, 
one-half pound of bread crumbs, one -half pound of sugar, i.'our 
eggs, a little grated nutmeg. Put the butter and figs in a sauce 



36 MARGERY DAW IN TJIK KITCllKX. 

pan ami simmer fifteen minutes. Cruml) the bread line, and 
mix it with the sugar, eggs, and nutmeg, in a l)asin, and pour 
the butter and figs over them. Wlien kikewarm mix all to- 
gether. Butter a pudding mould and steam three hours. Serve 
with any nice hot sauce. 

• English Plum Puddinc;. 

One pound of l)read crumbs, one pound of sugar, one p(jund 
of flour, oncdialf pound of suet, two pounds of raisins, two 
pounds of currants, ten eggs, a little salt, one tablespoonfnl each 
of cinnamon and mace, onedialf teaspoonful of cloves, and 
allspice each, one nutmeg, one-half pound of citron. (Almonds 
may be added if desired.) One wineglass of wine, one wineglass 
of brandy. Crumb the bread fine, (stale baker s bread is best) 
add the sugar and suet, beat the eggs light and add with the 
rest of the ingredients. Rub the fruit in flour, mix well togeth- 
er and steam three hours in a pudding form. Blanched almonds 
look very handsome stuck all over the outside of the pudding. 
Just before serving, at the dinning room door, pour over it 
some brandy and set it on fire. Alcohol is not so likely to go 
out while carrying, as brandy, and some prefer it on that 
account. 

SAUCE. 

One cup of sugar, one-half (.-up of butter, one egg, one-half 
cup of wine or brandy. Beat the butter and sugar together 
with a little hot water to make it jiasty, add the egg, beaten 
separately and light. Cook in boiling water, stirring all the 
time. Just as taken from the fire add the wine or brandy. If 
made right it will be white and just the right consistency. 

Saratoga Pudding. 

Four tablespoonfuls of corn-starch, one quart of cold milk. 
two tablespoonfuls of sugar, four eggs. Mix the corn-starch in 
cold milk, stir until it boils, when cool add the sugar and the 
eggs, the whites and yolks beaten separately. Bake in a pud- 
ding dish placed in a pan of hot water, one and one-half hours. 
This may be steamed if preferred. 



PUDDINGS AND DFSSERTS. 37 

SAUCE. 

One cup of sugar, ouc-half cup of butter, cue glass of wiue, 
the N-olks of two eo^gs,. Cream the butter and sugar, add tlie 
eggs and half the wine. Put the dish in boiling water, stir ten 
minutes, add the rest of the wine and serve. 

Margie's Brown Betty. 

One cup of bread crumbs, two cups of tart chopped apples, 
one-half cup of sugar, one teaspoonful of cinnamon, two table- 
spoonfuls of butter. Butter a |)udding dish, ]3ut a layer of 
bread crumbs in the bottom, then a layer of chopped apples 
witli a sprinkle of sugar, cinnamon and small ])ieces of butter, 
tlien a layer of bread crumbs, and so on until the dish is full, 
having bread crumbs for the top. Cover the dish with a pan, 
bake three-quarters of an hour, then uncover and brown. Serve 
with sugar and cream, or butter and sugar. A particularly 
nice dish for a nursery dinner. 

Green Corn Pudding. 

Two dozen ears of corn, one quart of milk, four eggs, one 
teaspoonful of salt, two tablespoonfuls of sugar, one tablespoon- 
ful of flour, grate the corn, add the milk, eggs, salt and sugar. 
If the corn is young, add one or two tablespoonfuls of flour. 
Bake m a greased pan two hours, and if the quantity is greatly 
increased, three hours. Bake moderately. 

Grandma's Baked Indian Pudding. 

One quart of milk, seven tablespoonfuls of Indian meal, one 
cup of molasses, one-half teaspoonful of salt. Put the milk in 
a kettle ; when scalding hot stir in the meal which has been 
wet with a little cold milk. Take from the stove and add the 
molasses, the salt and half a cup of cold milk. Two tablespoon- 
fuls of chopped suet maices it j'icher. Bake two hours in a 
moderate oven. 

Katies Cup Custards. 

One quart of milk, the yolks of eleven eggs, one large cup of 



38 ]\rARGEllV ])AW IN THE KITCHEN. 

Ku^ar. a })inc-li of salt, nutmeg to taste. Scald the milk one 
hour, then measure. Add tlie sugar, the eggs well beaten, salt 
and nutmeg. Pour into custard cups and uake in dnpping 
pan filled with hot water in a moderate oven, about half an 
hour. It is well to make these on the same day with Angel's 

Food. 

Steamed Graham Pudding. 

Two cups of Graham flour, one cup of milk, one cup of mo- 
lasses, one cup of raisins, one egg, one teaspoonful of soda, one- 
half teaspoonful of cloves and cinnamon each, a little nutmeg, 
a pinch of salt, Put the flour in a basin, then add all the other 
ingredients. Mix thoroughly. Flour the raisins, put the mix- 
ture into a greased pan and set in the steamer and steam three 
hours. (A very excellent pudding.) 

sauce. 

One cup of sugar, one-half cup of butter, one glass of wine. 
Stir well together and boil fifteen minutes in a farina kettle 

Batter Pudding. 

One quart of milk, four eggs, six tablespoonfuls of flour, a 
pinch of salt. Scald the milk, beat the eggs light, and stir in 
the flour with the egg, then into the milk. Stir thoroughly. 
Bake half an hour. When in the oven ten minutes stir from 
the bottom with a spoon, and it will l)ake more evenly. Serve 
with either hot or cold sauce. 

Cottage Pudding. 

One cup of sugar, one cup of milk, three tablespoonfuls of 

melted butter, one egg, one pint of flour, three teaspoonfuls of 

baking powder sifted thoroughly into the flour. Cream the 

butter, add the sugar, and beat light. Add the beaten egg. 

then the milk, lastly the flour. Bake in a loaf in a buttered 

tin. 

SAUCE. 

One cu}) of sugar, one-half cup of butter, one-half cup of wine, 
one egg. Cream the butter, add the sugar and egg^ and beat 
very light Lastly stir in the wine, hot. 



puddings and desserts. 39 

Gingerbread Pudding. 

One and one-half cups of molasse?, one-half cup of melted 
butter, one-half cup of boiling water, one and one-half cups of 
flour, two teaspoonfuls of ginger, one teaspoonfnl of cinnamon, 
two teaspoonfuls of soda dissolved in the hot water. Stir the 
molasses, butter, and water together; add the cinnamon and 
ginger, and lastly the flour. Serve with the cottage pudding 
sauce. 

Tapioca Pudding. 

Four tablespoonfuls of tapioca, one cpiait of rich milk, one 
cup of sugar, one teaspoonfnl of vanilla, four eggs. Soak the 
tapioca all night in milk. In the morning add the sugar and 
the beaten yolks. Heat the above ingredients together scald- 
ing hot, remove from the range, add the whites beaten to a 
stiff froth, and the vanilla. Bake like a custard, about thirty 
minutes. To be eaten either hot or cold, 

Charlotte Kusse Pudding. 

Two and one-half ounces of arrow-root or vermicelli, one 
quart of milk, eight eggs, ten ounces of white sugar, a piece of 
butter the size of a walnut, two teaspoonfuls of vanilla, one 
wineglass of brandy or sherry. Boil the arrow-root or vermi- 
celli in the milk, add the butter, beaten yolks of the eggs, the 
sugar, vanilla, and the brandy or wine. Beat the whites to a 
stiff froth and add just before baking. This is best eaten cold, 
and if successfully made is very nice. 

Peach Tapioca Pudding. 

One dozen peaches, one cup of tapioca, one cup of white su- 
gar. Soak the tapioca in cold water three honrs. Put it on 
the stove until it boils. Add the sugar. Pare and slice the 
peaches, sprinkle with sugar and pour the tapioca over them. 
Bake slowly one hour. Serve with cream. 

Queen of Puddings. 
One pint of bread crumbs, one quart of milk, one cup of 



40 MAEGEKY ])A^V IN THE KITCHEN. 

sugar, four eggs, one lemon, butter the size of an egg. Throw 
the bread crumbs into the milk, add the sugar, then the beaten 
yolks of the eggs, the grated i"ind of thf Icinoii, and tlic l>uttcr 
cut into small bits. Bake in a pudding dish about an hour, 
taking care that it docs not become watery. Beat the whites 
of the eggs to a still" froth, add onodialf cup of sugar, and the 
juice of the lemon. Put jam or jelly on top of the pudding, or 
not, as you prefer. Spread the meringue over it and set it back 
in the oven until slightly brown. 

Her Majesty's Pudding. 

One-third of a package of gelatine, yolks of four eggs, one 
quart of sweet milk, one cup of sugar, one teaspoonful of 
vanilla. Soak the gelatine in onedialf cup of cold water one 
houi". Beat tiic 'yolks of the eggs light with the sugar, stir 
them into the milk, letting it boil about three minutes, stirring 
constantly, taking care that it does not curdle. Add the gela- 
tine and vanilla, strain into moulds, and set aside to coo]. 

SAUCE. 

Whites of three eggs, four tablespoon fuls of cream, tliree 
tablespoonfuls of sugar. Beat the whites to a stiff froth, whip 
the cream light, add the whites of the eggs and the sugar and 
flavor with vanilla to taste, or brandy, if preferred. 

Steamed Apple Pudding. 

Pare, cpiai'tcr, and take the cores from tart ap{)les, enough to 
fdl a pudding dish, rub a piece of butter the size of an egg into 
one jjint of flour in which are sifted two teaspoonfuls of baking- 
powder. Mix with milk with the spoon, about the consistency 
of soda biscuit. Put the dish in a steamer over a kettle of 
boiling water and steam two hours. This is a general fa^•oritc, 
surpassing the old-fashioned dumpling. 

sauce 

Two tables})oonfu]s of flour, one cup of sugar, a little nutmeg, 
a tables|)oonful of butter. Mix these ingredients together with 



PUDDINGS AND DESSERTS. 41 

one tablespoonful of cold water. Put into a saucepan and pour 
on slowly a little less than a pint of boiling water. 

Tekla's Pudding. 

Twelve eggs, twelv^e ounces of sugar, one lemon, one glass of 
rum or brandy, beat the yolks with the sugar, add the rum or 
brandj^, then the whites beaten to a stiff froth. Bake quickly, 
and serve immediately. 

Chocolate Pudding. 

One quart of milk, three ounces of grated chocolate, six eggs, 
one cup of sugar, two teaspoonfuls of vanilla. Boil one quart 
of milk with the chocolate. AVhen dissolved, take from the 
fire and stir in the beaten yolks of six eggs. Add the sugar 
and vanilla. Bake like a custard, and when cold frost it with 
the whites. To be eaten cold. 

Royal Diplomatic Pudding. — Miss Parlor. 

Soak onedialf box of gelatine in half a cuj) of cold water one 
or two hours. Pour on this two-thirds of a pint of boiling 
water. Add the juice of one lemon, one cup of sugar, onedialf 
pint of wine; stir and strain. Have two moulds, one holding 
two quarts and the other one quart. Put a layer of jelly in 
the large mould and set on ice. When cold lay on the top can- 
died cherries cut in two, or other candied fruit, and put in a few 
spoonfuls of jelly, not hot, to hold the cherries, and then enough 
to cover them. When the jelly is perfectly hard set the small 
mould ^n the center of the large one on the jelly, and fill the 
space around it with jelly. Fill the small mould with ice and 
set them botli in a basin of ice. When the jelly is hard remove 
the ice from the small mould, fill it with warm water, and lift it 
out carefully. Tlie vacant space is to bo filled with a custard 
made as follows : The yolks of five eggs, onedialf cup of sugar, 
two tablespoonfuls oE wine, one teaspoonful of vanilla, one-half 
box of gelatme soaked in one-half cup of cold water, one scant 
cup of milk. Put the milk to boil, add the gelatine, the eggs 
:.nd the suo-ar beaten tog-ether. Strain and add the wine and 



42 MAUGKKY DAW IN THE KITCHEN. 

vanilla. When the custard begins to thicken add one-half pint 
of cream whipped to a still frotli ; pour the custard into the 
space mentioned and let it harden. Turn the pudding out of 
the mould and serve witli soft custard or German sauce. 

German Sauce. 

One cup of sugar, one cup of water, one tablespoonful of but- 
ter, three eggs, three tablespoonfuls of brandy or one teas})oonful 
of any flavoring extract you wish. Put the sugar and water in 
a saucepan and boil fifteen minutes. Beat the yolks of the eggs 
and stir into the boiling syruj). Put the basin into another of 
hot water until it begins to thicken. Then add the butter, the 
whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth, and the brandy. Stir 
one minute longer and serve. 

No-Name Pudding. 

One pint of f^our, one-half cup of sugar, three tablespoonfuls 
of melted butter, one-half pint of sweet milk, one egg, three 
tablespoonfuls of baking powder. Beat the butter, sugar and 
egg together until light. Add the milk, and lastly the flour 
with the baking powder. Steam one and one-half hours. 

Harvard Sauce. ' 

One cup of sugar, two eggs, one-half glass of wine or one tea- 
spoonful of vanilla, two tablespoonfuls of warm milk. Beat the 
yolks and sugar together, add the whites beaten to a stiff froth, 
then the wine or vanilla. When all is beaten thoroughly to- 
gether, add the warm milk. 

Benara Buns. 

Four eggs, one cup of butter, one and three-fourths cups of 
sugar, one cup of milk, three and one-half cups of flour. Cream 
the butter, stir in the sugar, beat till light; add beaten eggs, 
the milk, lastly the flour with three teaspoonfuls of baking pow- 
der. Bake these buns in deep patty-pans. When done take 
from the tins, let them cool. When cold turn u} side down on 



PUDDINGS AND DESSERTS. 48 

a platter, and with a teaspoon make a cavity in the bottom o{ 
each sufficiently large to contain a teaspoonful of raspberry jam. 
Pour over these three pints of cream whipped very light, and 
sweetened to taste. Add a little vawilla. These are particu- 
larly nice for tea. 

Velvet Cream. 

Onedialf package of gelatine, one cup of granulated sugar, 
one large cup of sherry wine, one generous pint of I'ich, sweet 
cream. Soak the gelatine in one cup of cold water one hour 
Put the sugar and wine on the soaked gelatine. Cover closely 
and leave for an hour. Then put the bowl containing them in- 
to a basin of hot water, stirring occasionally until the gelatine 
is dissolved, when strain and set aside to cool. Keep this cov- 
ered all the time to retain the flavor of the wine. Now whip 
the cream to a stiff froth, and as the gelatine begins to congeal, 
beat it, a spoonful at a time, into the whipped cream. Beat 
thoroughly when all together and turn into a mould wet with 
cold water, and set upon ice until wanted. 

A Beautiful Dessert. 

Five small tablespoonfuls of corn-starch, four tablespoonfuls 
of sugar, four tablespoonfuls of grated chocolate, one quart of 
milk. Put the milk on the stove, and while it is heating mix 
the rest of the ingredients in a bowl with a little cold milk. 
Then pour into the hot milk and boil a few moments until it 
thickens. Pour into a mould and set aside to cool. Make a 
boiled custard of one quart of milk, five eggs, leaving out the 
whites of two, two tablespoonfuls of sugar. When the pudding- 
is cold, turn it into a shallow glass dish or platter and pour the 
custard, which must be cold, around it, leaving the pudding- 
two or three inches out of the custard. Take the whites of the 
eggs beaten to a stiff froth, with two tablespoonfuls of pulver- 
ized sugar. Drop from a spoon, about the size of kisses, over 
the pudding and custard. Part of the meringue can be colored 
with a little cochineal syrup, and a small drop put on each kiss. 



44 :\rAK(;ERV daw in the kitchen. 

TiFSEY Cake. 

One bar of sponge cake, one-half cup of wine, one pint of 

boiled custard, one pound of almonds. Place the sponge cake 

on a ])latter, stick the alnionds in rows on the top and sides of 

^the cake, pour the wiue over it, and just before serving, pour 

over all the boiled custard. 

Boiled Custakd. 

One (piart of milk, four eggs, a small cup of sugar, lemon or 

vanilla extract. Put the milk on to scald, beat the eggs and 

sugar together and stir into the scalding milk, stirring all the 

time until it thickens. Do not cook too long, or it will curdle. 

When cool, flavor with lemon or vanilla to taste, or equal parts 

of each. 

Roman Cream. 

One-half box of gelatine, one-half glass of milk, three table- 
spoonfuls of sugar, (more if desired), one gill of wine, one pint 
of cream, whites of two eggs, vanilla to taste. Soak the gela- 
tine in the milk half an hour, then put the dish in which it has 
been soaked into a basin of hot w^ater on the stove until it is 
entirely dissolved ; whip the cream light, add the sugar and 
vanilla, then the wdiites beaten to a stiff froth ; stir the gelatine 
into the cream, sugar, etc., slowly, and beat it well. Pour it 
into moulds and set it on ice to harden. 

Prussian Cream. 

One-half box of gelatine, one cup of sugar, three eggs, one 
and one-half pints of milk, (part caeam is an improvement). 
Scald the milk in a farina kettle. Beat the yolks and sugar 
light, stir into the milk, then add the gelatine, which has been 
soaked in some of the cold milk; stir constantly until it thick- 
ens. Take from the stove, stir in the beaten whites, and pour 
into a mould. 

Coffee Blanc-Mange. 

One quart of cream, (part milk can be used) one-half package 
of gelatine, one-half cup of strong coffee, one cup of sugar. Soak 



PUDDINGS AXD DESSERTS. 45 

the gelatine one hour in one-half cri}) of cold watei", add the 
cotiee, hot, then the sugar ; set it on the range until the gela- 
tine is thoroughly dissolved ; set it aside until partly cold ; 
whip the cream and stir it gradually into the mixture. Pour 
into moulds and set aside to harden. 

Potato Pudding. 

Three boiled potatoes, five eggs, one pint of milk or cream, 
•butter the size of an egg, two tablespoonfuls of wine^ sugar to 
taste. Rub the potatoes while hot through a sieve, add the 
butter, next the eggs well beaten, the wine and sugar to sweeten 
to taste. Serve hot without sauce. 

Strawberry Charlotte. 

One quart of milk, yolks of six eggs, three quarters of a cup 
of sugar, flavor to taste. Scald the milk, beat the eggs and 
sugar and stir into tlie milk, and co<.)k until it thickens, taking 
care that it does not crack. Place slices of sponge cake in a 
glass dish, then a layer of ripe strawberries sprinkled with su- 
gar ; (a little wine poured on the cake is an improvement, but 
not necessary) another layer of cake, tlien another of berries with 
sugar. When the custard is cold, pour it over the cake and 
berries. Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, add sugar 
and put over the top, and decorate with ripe strawberries. 

Charlotte Russe. 

The whites of three eggs, three tablespoonfuls of sugar, one 
half pint of cream, one glass of sherry wine. Beat the whites 
of the eggs to a stiff froth, add three tablespoonfuls of sugar. 
Keep the cream stiff with a wheel-egg-beater and sweeten to 
taste. Then beat the cream and egg together, adding the wine 
to flavor. Bake two loaves of sponge cake in jelly cake tins, 
having one twice as thick as the other, using the thin cake for 
the bottom of the Charlotte Russe ; cut a circle an 'inch wide 
from the outside of the thick cake, and place upon the other 
cake ; then fill with the above mixture. Diamond shapes cut 



46 MAEGERY DAW TN THE KITCHEN. 

from the center taken out, will ornament the white fillinji- hand- 
somely. 

Orange Pudding. 

One cup of sugar, one-half cup of rolled crackers, two eggs, 
one half tablespoonful of butter, one orange, one quart of milk ; 
grate the rind and squeeze the juice. Bake like a custard, and 

serve cold. 

Orange Pudding. 

Slice four sweet oranges, having previously pared them, one 
quart of milk, one cup of sugar, two tablespoonfuls of corn- 
starch, and the yolks of three eggs. Scald the milk, and just 
as it comes to boiling, add the corn-starch mixed in a little cold 
milk, and the sugar and eggs thoroughly beaten ; boil until well 
thickened. When cold, pour over the sliced oranges. Make a 
meringue of the whites of three eggs, and a small cup of sugar. 
Spread on th-e pudding, and ornament wdtli sliced oranges. 

Philadelphia Pudding. 

One quart of milk, twenty sweet almonds, ten bitter almonds, 
five tablespoonfuls of rice flour, sweetened to taste. Blanch 
the almonds and chop quite fine, put them into the milk, and 
let it just boil, then stir in the rice flour mixed in a little cold 
milk, and let it boil hard two or three minutes. Pour into a 
pudding dish, and let it get perfectly cold. Beat the whites of 
three eggs to a still" froth, and drop on the top in pieces the 
size of an egg, and set in the oven until slightly brown. Serve 
with sugar and cream. 

Apple Sago Pudding. 

Pare and core about six tart apples, and place them in a 
pudding dish, fill the centre of the apples with sugar, grate the 
rind of one lemon over them, adding a few thin slices of the 
lemon. Pour one quart of boiling water over one teacup of 
sago, and let it stand an hour, then pour over the apples, and 
bake about one hour slowly. Serve with sugar and cream. 



puddings and desserts. 17 

Apple Tapioca Pudding. 

Six tart apples, one cup of tapioca, one and one-half cups of 
tepid water, one large cup of sugar ; pare and core the apples, 
cut them in quarters, slice them, or leave them whole, as pre- 
ferred. Wash the tapioca, and soak three hours in the tepid 
water, stir the sugar with the tapioca and pour over the apples, 
which have been put into a greased pudding dish. Bahe about 
two hours. Serve with cream ; sauce is not necessary. 

Hasty Pudding. 

Seven teacups of milk, three eggs, six tablespoonfuls of flour, 
and a little salt. Put six caps of milk in a kettle on the range, 
beat three eggs well, and stir into one cup of cold milk, add the 
flour and salt, beat vfell togetho- and stir into the milk on the 
range just as it begins to boil ; boil five minutes, taking great 
care lest it scorch. Pour into greased cups to mould. To be 
eaten either warm or cold, with sugar and cream. 

Corn-Starch Pudding. 

One quart of milk, four tablespoonfuls of corn-starch, two 
eggs, a pinch of salt. Let the milk come to a boil. Stir in a 
small cup of sugar, and the corn-starch well mixed in a little 
cold milk, stir in two well beaten eggs. Flavor with lemon or 
vanilla to taste, pour into moulds, and serve with cream, which 
is improved by being whipped. 

One-Egg Bread Pudding. 

One egg, two teaspoonfuls of flour, three of brown sugar, one 
pint of milk, a little salt, slices of bread and butter. Place 
some very thin slices of bread and butter in a small pudding 
dish until three parts full. Break the egg into a basin, beat 
with it the sugar, add the flour, and pour slowly into it a ])int 
of milk, add a little salt. Pour this custard over the bread, and 
bake about half an hour A handful of currants may be added. 

Delmonico Pudding. 
One quart of milk, four eggs, (reser\nng the whites of three,)- 



48 MAUGEUY DAW IX TIIK KITCHEN. 

three tablcsjiooiifuls of sugar, two tab!es})Oonfuls of corn-starch, 
one cup of concentrated cocoanut, a httle salt. Put the milk 
in a basin over boiling water to scaM : mix the corn-starch in a 
little cold milk ; beat the eggs and sugar and stir all into the 
boihng milk, add the cocoanut, and pour the whole into a pud- 
ding dish. Whip the whites of the three eggs very still', add 
three tablespoonfuls of sugar, flavor to taste. S})read this 
meringue over the pudding, and brown slightly. Serve either 

hot or cold. 

Lemon Pi^dding. 

Three rounding tablespoonfuls of corn-starch, mix smoothly 
in a little cold water. Add to this by degrees three coffeecups 
of boiling water, two teacups of sugar, the juice and grated rind 
of two lemons, one teaspoonful of butter, a pinch of salt, three 
beaten eggs. Stir all together on tlie range until it thickens, 
butter a pudding dish, pour tlie mixture in, and bake twenty 
minutes in a quick oven. The wliites of two more eggs beaten 
stiff, with a little sugar, spread over the pudding, and return to 
the oven till slightly brown. This is better made the day be- 
fore using, as it is to be eaten cold. One-half of this recipe 
made with two eggs makes a good sized pudding. 

Mock Plum P lidding. 

One pint ,of fine bread crumbs, (stale baker's bread is the 
best,) one cup of raisins seeded and chopped, one cup of mo- 
lasses, add spices if desired. Mix all well together and steam 
three hours. 

SAUCE. 

One cup of sugar, one-half cup of butter beaten to a cream, 
and steam over the tea-kettle, two tables|)oonfuls of cream ad<l- 
ed and wine to taste, stiri-ing all the time. 

German Puffs. 

Two eggs, the whites and yolks beaten separately, two cups 
of milk, two cups of flour, a little salt. Stir the yolks in the 
milk. Add the whites and llour altcrnatelv. Heat the 2'em 



PUDDINGS AND DESSERTS. 49 

irons or patty pans, before putting in the mixture. Serve hot 
with wine sauce. 

Maple Sugar Sauce. 

One-half cup of butter, one tablespoonful of flour well rubbed 
into the butter. Add one cup of- maple sugar, well stirred in, 
pour into a dish, set on the range and pour on boiling water 
until thin enough. Either white or brown sugar can be used 
flavored with wine or nutmeg. 

Wine Sauce. 

One cup of powdered sugar and one tablespoonful of butter, 

beaten to cream. Add one teacup of boiling water, and let it 

stand over boiling water ten minutes. Add a wineglass of 

sherry wine. 

Every Day Pudding Sauce. 

Two cups of boiling water, put in a b;isin with two-thirds of 
a cup of white sugar, one iieaping teaspoonful of corn starch, 
dissolved in cold water and stirred in ; boil the whole five min- 
utes, stirring frequently, remove from the range, allow it to cool 
slightly, and stir in thoroughly two well beaten eggs. Flavor 
to taste with wine, vanilla, or nutmeg. 

Yanilla Sauce. 

One-half cup of powdered sugar, the whites of two eggs, and 
yolk of one egg, one teaspoonful of vanilla, three tablespoon- 
fuls of milk. Beat the whites to a stiff froth, and beat in the 
sugar, then the yolk of the egg, and add the vanilla. Serve im- 
mediately. This sauce is for light puddings. 

Lemon Sauce. 

One cup of sugar, one-half cup of butter, one teaspoonful of 
corn-starch, and the yolks of two eggs, (or one egg). Beat the 
egg and sugar, add the juice and g-rated rind of one lemon, stir 
into the whole three gills of boiling water, stirring constantly 
until it thickens. Do not let it boil. 



50 margekv daw ix the kitchex. 

Cream Sauce. 

One cup of sugar, one-half cup of butter, one egg, one table- 
spoonful of flour. Beat all together to a cream, add either va- 
nilla or lemon flavoring. Set it over boiling water, Stirling in 
about a pint of boiling milk ; do not stop stirring, and serve 
when as thick as ricli cream. 

Fairy-Butter. 

One cup of white sugar, one-half cup of butter, the white of 
onb egg, beat all together until very light and creamy. Flavor 
with l:)r;indy, wine, or nutmeg. 



SALADS. 



Salad Dressing. 

Beat the raw yolks of three eggs with one tablespoonful of 
sugar, add one-half teaspoonful of mustard, one tablespoonful of 
butter, one teaspoonful of salt, and one tumbler of vinegar. 
Set the ingredients in a basin on the range, stirring constantly 
until it thickens. Add one tablespoonful of sweet cream if you 
have it. 

Salad. Dressing. 

Yolks of two raw eggs, one tablespoonful of mustard, two 
teaspoonfuls of salt, one teaspoonfubof sugar, one-half teaspoon- 
ful white pe})per, one bottle salad oil, one-half cup of vinegar. 
Mix the eggs, spices, salt, and sugar, on a platter and then stir 
wnth a fork, beginning with the oil, a few drops at a time, until 
thick, then vinegar in the same way, then alternate vinegar and 
oil; the oil thickens, the vinegar thins; drop the oil faster as 
you go on. It will be whiter if most of the vinegar is stirred in 
at the last very rapidly. This is delicious, and good for chick- 



SALADS. 51 

en, lobster or other salads. (Some prefer to mix in a bowl with 
a wheel egg beater.) 

Grand Union Mayonnaise Dressing. 

Pour into a stew pan one tablespoonful of oil, two tablespoon- 
fuls of flour wet with a little cold water, and four tablespoon- 
fuls of vinegar, pour in about one-half gill of boiling water and 
stir until it boils and looks clear like starch, place this upon the 
ice to cool. Take the yolks of four raw eggs, one large tea- 
spoonful of salt, one pint bottle of oil, mix thoroughly together. 
When the mixture placed upon the ice is cold, mix all together, 
adding two teaspoonfuls of made mustard, one teaspoonful of 
fine sugar, and cayenne pepper to suit taste ; mix all together 
well, and add to the salad. This makes dressing enough for 
four chickens 

Cabbage Salad. 

One quart of cabbage chopped . fine. One small tumbler of 
vinegar, the yolks of three raw eggs, one tablespoonful of sugar 
one-half teaspoonful mustard, one tablespoonful of butter, one 
teaspoonful of salt. Put these ingredients on the range in a 
basin, stirring constantly until it thickens; strain through a 
sieve upon the cabbage, adding one tablespoonful of cream, if 
you have it. The above dressing is very nice for lettuce, chop- 
ped celery, or other salad where oil is not liked. 

Hot Cabbage Salad. 

Two quarts of cabbage chopped fine. Take one pint of vin- 
egar, one tablespoonful of salt, one-half teacup of butter, put 
all but the cabbage into a farina kettle, and when hot, stir in 
two eggs well beaten. Season with pepper, then stir into this 
the cabbage and let the whole come to a boil. Celery chopped 
fine improves it. 

Chicken Salad. 

Take five chickens, boil until very tender, leaving them in 
the liquor to cool. Take them out, and cut in small pieces. 
To one part of chicken take two of celery ; less will do. Cut 



52 MARGERY DAW IX THE KITCHEX. 

the celery lengthwise, slice off thin, and })ut it in salted ice 
water until ready to mix. Dressing: — The yolks of eight or 
ten raw eggs, one large Ijottle of salad oil, three or four tea- 
spoonfuls of mustard, three teaspoonfuls of pepper, six teaspoon- 
fuls of sugar, one-half cupful of vinegar; more if liked may be 
added. Commence by beating the yolks until very smooth, 
then add the oil, a few drops at a time, beating all the while, 
either on a platter with a silver fork, or in a bowl with a wheel 
egg beater. When the oil is half beaten in, add the spices ; the 
last half of the oil may be added faster. Just before serving- 
mix the chicken, the celery, and neai'ly all the dressing, reserv- 
ing a little to pour over the top. Ornament with celery tops, 
olives and small radishes. This is sufficient for fort}' persons, 
making two large dishes. 

Sweet- Bread Salad. 

When the sweet-breads come from the market sprinkle salt 
upon them, leaving them until ready to use. Rinse off with 
cold water, throw them into boiling water, cook half an hour, 
chop quite fine, mix with either of the salad dressings previous- 
ly given. Select fine crisp, curly lettuce leaves, place a spoon- 
ful of the salad npon each leaf, and arrange in a salad bowl, or 
upon a platter, Salmon or lobster salad can be prepared and 
served in the same mannei-. 

Lobster Salad. 

Boil the lobsters, take them from the shells, cut into small 
pieces. If you have not fresh lobsters use canned. Cut celery 
as for chicken salad, two parts to one of lobster. If lettuce is 
preferred use it fresh and crisp, breaking or cutting into small 
pieces, and mix with the lobster and salad dressing, (previously 
given) and garnish with celery or lettuce leaves, olives, slices of 
lemon, or hard boiled eggs. 

Veal Salad. 

Boil lean veal until tender, chop quite fine, chop two or three 
hard boiled eggs and mix with it. Take cabbage or lettuce 



SALADS. 53 

clioi^petl fine, if liked one good sized cucumber may also be 
chopped line and added; mix with salad dressing and garnish. 

Salmon Salad. 

Take one can of salmon, drain the fish, and pick it to pieces, 
removing all the bones and pieces of skin. Chop double the 
(juantit}^ of celery, cabljage or lettuce, and mix with it. Use 
mayonnaise dressing, and garnish with plenty of lemons cut in 
slices or points. 

French Salad. 

Six nice ri})e tomatoes, skin and slice thom, ]iare and slice 
two large cucumbers, slice one onion very thin, have some ten- 
der crisp lettuce broken into small pieces, place these in laj^ers 
in a salad bowl and pour over them mayonnaise dressing. The 
tomatoCwS, cucumbers and onions may be cut into small pieces 
mixed with the dressing and served the same as sweet-bread 
salad. 

Potato Salad. 

Cut into small square pieces, six or eight cold boiled pota- 
toes, add one or two tablespoonfuls of finely chopped onion, 
(omit if pi-eferred), one teaspoouful of chopped parsley, over 
these pour one teacup of vinegar, let it stand two or three hours, 
pour off the vinegar, and mix with salad dressing, one or two 
hard boiled eggs chopped, may be added. 

Tomato Salad. 

Take round, smooth tomatoes, skin them, make a cavity in 
the top of each, and lay in the cavity a spoonful of the mayon- 
naise dressing, and lay each tomato on a crisp, curly lettuce 
leaf, or cut them round the centre, and lay the round side down, 
with the dressing laid on the flat side of each piece. 

Asparagus Salad. 

Boil asparagus in salted water, or steam until tender, remove 
carefully, laying the tops the same way, serving on a platter. 
Prepare a dressing of oil, pepper and salt, with a sprinkle of 



54 MARGERY DAW IN THE KITCHEN. 

vinegar. Put a large spoonful of this dressing u})on each plate 
on which the asparagus is served. Some ])refer the asparagus 
cold, boiling it early and laying it ii})on ice. 



ICE CREAMS, ETC. 



Ice Cream. 

One quart of cream, one (^uart of milk, two eggs, one pound 
of sugar, two teaspoonfuls of vaniHa. Scald tlie milk, sugar 
and eggs together until it thickens, strain and set aside until 
cold. Whip the cream and beat into the custard thoroughly ; 
add the vanilla, and freeze. If not sweet enough add more 
sugar. Equal parts of vanilla and lemon extract make an ex- 
cellent flavoring. 

White Ice Cream. 

Two quarts of cream, one quart of rich milk, one pound of 
sugar, whites of two eggs, lemon or vanilla to taste. Beat the 
sugar and eggs together as for cake, mix with the cream, and 
whip in a large bowl with a wheel egg beater; add the milk 

gradually, flavor and freeze. 

Caromel Ice Cream. 

Three pints of brown sugar, one quart of milk, two quarts of 
cream, put the sugar over the fire in an iron spidei', and stir until 
it becomes a liquid, taking care that it does not burn ; then turn 
into the spider with the melted sugar, gradually, the milk, 
which must be warm. It will curdle. Strain through thin 
muslin and cool. Add the two quarts of cream which have 
been whipped light, and it is ready for the freezer. 

Chocolate Ice Cream. 

Two quarts of cream, one quart of milk, two eggs, one-half 
cup of Baker's chocolate, one pound of sugar. Grate the choc- 



ICE CREAMS. ETC. 55 

olate fine, and mix it into a smooth paste with a little milk. 
Scald the quart of milk and stir into it the chocolate ; beat the 
yolks of the eggs, stir them into the milk, add the sugar ; let 
it boil two or three minutes, stirring constantly lest it burn. 
When cold, beat into it two quarts of cream whipped liglit with 
a wheel beater. Beat the whites of the two eggs, and stir them 
into the whipped cream aud custard. If not sweet enough add 
more sugar. Flavor with vanilla, and freeze. 

Lemon Ice. 

One pint of lemon juice, four pints of water, one tablespoOn- 
ful of gum-arabic dissolved in water, the rind of two or three 
lemons, the whites of three eggs, sugar to make sweeter than 
lemonade. Mix the lemon juice, water, sugar, gum-arabic and 
the grated rind of the lemon. Just as it is ready for the freezer 
add the whites of the eggs beaten light. Do not strain, but let 
the rinds of the lemon remain. 

Lemon Sherbet. 

Five lemons, one pint of sugar, one quart of water, one table- 
spoonful of gelatine. Soak the gelatine in a cup of water, boil 
one cupful of water, and dissolve the gelatme in it. When cold 
add the sugar, water, gelatine and lemon juice, and freeze. 
This is light and creamy. 

Orange Sherbet. 

One quart of water, one pint of sugar, two tablespoonfuls of 
gelatine, and the juice of ten oranges. Pour a cup of boiling 
water on the gelatine and when dissolved and cold, mix the 
orange juice and sugar with it; strain and freeze. 

Pineapple Sherbet, 

One quart of grated pineapple, four lemons, four quarts of 
water. Mix the juice of the lemon thoroughly with the pine- 
apple and water, with sugar enough to make it very sweet, and 
turn into the freezer. 



56 MAKCJEKY DAW IX THE KITCHEN. 

SllEP.HET. 

Boil in oiu> (juart of rich milk, the rind of one lemon, with 
one ]»onn(l of white sugar; when cool, ])nt in the freezer, and 
half freeze it. Have ready the juice of live lemons, and the 
whites of three eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Add a little sugar 
to the lemon juice. Add this mixture to the Imlf frozen milk 
in the freezer, and freeze solid. 

Frozen Oranges. 

Remove the peel, and slice as many oranges as may be required. 
To each pound of oranges add three-quarters of a pound of 
sugar and one-half pint of water, and freeze. 

Frozen Strawberries. 

Take nice, ripe strawd3erries, put them into a bowd and masli 
them, adding plenty of sugar, making sweeter than for the 
table ; let them stand until the juice is drawn out, and freeze. 
They are nice served with cream, ice cream, or as a water ice. 

Fruit Frappees. 

Line a mould with vanilla ice cream. In the centre put 
fresh berries, sliced peaches, or other fruit. Fill up the mould 
with ice cream, cover closely, and pack in salt and ice for half 
an hour. The fruit is better chilled than frozen. 



JELLIES AND PRESERVES. 



Lemon Jelly. 



One package of gelatine, one cup of lemon juice or six lem- 
ons, two and one-half cups of sugar, tw^o quarts of water. Dis- 
solve the gelatine in one pint of water, add the other three pints 



JELLIES AXD PRESERVES. 57 

of boiling water, the lemon juice and sugar. If desired it can 
be colored a beautiful red with cochineal syrup ; add a few 
drops at a time until the color is satisfactory. Strain into 
moulds and set into the ice chest to harden. 

Orange Jelly. 

One package of gelatine, one pint of orange juice, or one doz- 
en oranges, the juice of one lemon, ope pint of sugar, one and 
onedialf pints- of boiling* water, half a pint of cold water. Soak 
the gelatine in a half pint of ,cold Avater, add the boiling water, 
the orange, lemon juice, and sugar. Strain through a napkin 
into moulds wet with cold water. A pretty way to mould this 
jell}' is to fill tlie mould to the depth of two inches with liquid 
jeWy. When this is hardened, put on a layer of oranges divided 
into eighths, then a little more jelly to set the fruit; fill up the 
mould with jelly and set it aside to harden. 

.Wine Jelly. 

One package of gelatine, one pint of cold water, the juice of 
three lemons, the rind of one, two pints of boiling water, one 
pint of wine, two pounds of crushed or granulated sugar. Pour 
the pint of cold water on the gelatine, let it stand one hour. 
Add the boiling water, the wine, sugar, and lemon. Strain in- 
to moulds and set in a cool place to harden. The lemon can be 
omitted, and the flavor varied by adding three or four whole 
cloves, or a stick or two of cinnamon. This jelly can be col- 
ored red with cochineal syrup. 

Jelly Oranges. 

One dozen fine oranges, one package of gelatine dissolved in 
one cup of cold water, three cups of white sugar, juice of the 
oranges and grated rind of three, the juice of two lemons, two 
cups of boiling water, one-fourth teaspoonful of cinnamon. 
Soak the gelatine three hours in the cold water ; cut a small 
hole in the top of each orange, and take out all the pulp care- 
fully with a teaspoon handle, not tearing the edges of the holes ; 
(the smaller the hole in the orange, the better the dish will look.) 



58 MARGERY ])A\V IK TUE KITCHEN. 

Lay the empty skins in cold water, strain the juice tlirough 
coarse rnusHn upon the sugar, add the spice, pour the boiling 
water ou the gelatine, add sugar and juice. Strain through a 
flannel bag, not squeezing, as it will make it cloudy. Wi})e off 
the orange skins, set close in a dish and fill very full with the 
jell}', as it shrinks in cooling. Next day cut each in half with 
a pen-knife, being careful to cut the skin all around before cut- 
ting through the jelly. A large knife dipped for an instant in 
hot water and quickly drawn through the jelly part cuts more 
smoothly than a cold knife. Pile them in a dish with green 
leaves around them. It is a much easier dish to make than 
would appear at first. If desired, the oranges can be served 

whole. 

Orange a la Surprise. 

Take fine oranges and cut them around the middle with a 
sharp knife ; take out all the pulp clean with a teaspoon, taking 
care not to tear them. Throw the empty skins into cold water 
until you are ready to fill them. Take them, wipe them, fill 
half the empty skins with whipped cream, and the other half 
with jelly made of the pulp taken out. The jelly can be left 
the color of the orange, or colored a beautiful red with cochi- 
neal syrup, which is very pleasing in contrast with the white 
cream. These can be set on wine glasses or small cups while 
hardening. After the orange skins have been filled, and set in 
the ice chest until hardened, serve either alternately jelly and 
cream on a napkin on a })latter, or place together and tie with 
colored ribbons. The surprise is pleasant when the ribbons are 
untied. This is a very effective dish and easily prepared. 

Whipped Cream. 

One pint of sweet cream sweetened to taste, one teaspoonful 
of vanilla, or other flavoring. Put the cream in a bowl and 
beat with a wheel egg beater until thick, then sweeten and 
flavor. The cream will beat better if cold. The whites of two 
or three eggs beaten to a stiff froth ma}^ be added. This makes 
a delicious dessert. Different jellies or fruit may be served 
with it. 



jellies and preserves. 59 

Moonshine. 

This dessert combines a pretty appearance with a palatable 
flavor, and is a convenient substitute for ice cream. Beat the 
whites of six eggs to a stiff froth, then add gradually six table- 
spoonfuls of powdered sugai", beating for not less than thirty 
minutes, then beat in about one heaping tablespoonful of pre- 
served peaches cut in tiny bits (or some use one cup of jelly). In 
serving pour in each saucer some rich cream sweetened, and 
flavored with vanilla, and on the cream place a liberal portion 
of the moonshine. Bananas may be used instead of peaches, or 
jelly. This quantity is enough for seven or eight persons. 

Lemon Honey. 

One-half pound of sugar, two ounces of butter, one egg, two 
lemons ; squeeze the juice, grate the rind of one. Put all these 
ingredients in a saucepan, and simmer lifteen or twenty minutes. 

Grated Pineapple. 

Grate the pineapple on a coarse grater, taking three-quarters 
of a pound of gi-anulated sugar to one of the grated fruit. Put 
the fruit and su2:ar in a laro-e iar or earthen bowl. Let them 
remain twenty-four hours, stirring occasionally, that the sugar 
may be entirely dissolved ; then put the fruit in glass cans wdth- 
out cooking, leaving about one inch of space at the top of each, 
as the fruit will swell. Pineapple is delicious prepared in this 
manner, and has been kept perfectly for two or three years. It 
makes a choice sauce for puddings, and not being cooked it re- 
tains the fresh fruit flavor. It can also be stirred into ice cream, 
making pineapple cream. 

Brandy Tutu Fruittl 

As the season for strawberries approaches take one quart of 
brandy and three pounds of crushed sugar and put them in a 
three gallon jar with a small top. When strawberries are ripe 
prepare three pounds of strawberries as for the table and put 
them into the jar with the brandy and sugar and three pounds 



60 MARGERY DAW IX THE KITCHEN. 

more of sugar ; alwa^'s aeUl an equal weight of sugar and fruit. 
This must be stirred gently every day until the jar is filled, 
and the jar must be covered air tight. Add each fruit in its 
season, two or three pounds of each. White cherries and red, 
pineapple, oranges, api-icots, ]>eaches pared and cut in halves ; 
very sweet plums may be added. If the plums are tart, cook 
them. This must be ke})t in cool place, and stirred gently 
every dav until the jar is full. It must be covered air tight. 
This is very uice served witii ice cream or as a sweetmeat. 
This is a German recipe. 

Braxdy Peaches. 

Select fair peaches and weigh them, have ready a kettle of 
lye, drop the peaches in the boiling lye, and let them boil leav- 
ing them only a moment or two, when the peel will rub off 
easily. Skim out the peaches and drop them into cold water 
to cool ; take them out and rub off the skins with the hand, or 
with a cloth, then lay in fresh cold water until the syrup is 
made. Take of white sugar half the weight of the peaches, 
make a syrup, cook the fruit twenty minutes, when done add 
half as mucli brandy as you have syrup, use white brandy. 

Orange Marmalade. 

Six pounds of sour or Sicily oranges, six pounds of granu- 
lated sugar. Pai'e half a dozen oranges as thin as possible, only 
taking oft' the yellow part; boil this in a large kettle of water 
until tender. Then strain the water off and throw it awaj', cut 
the ])eel in tiny narrow strips with scissors. Cut the oranges 
in halves through the middle, and with a strong teaspoon tak- 
ing all the juice and pulp out, and as they are taken out, put 
them on the sugar which has been put in a large dish. Be care- 
ful to throw away all the seeds. Take the orange juice, pulp 
and sugar, and let them boil in a porcelain kettle tw^enty-five 
minutes. After it has boiled fifteen minutes throw in the strips 
of peel. After boiling the remainder of the required time, put 
it into small jars or tumblers. 



jellies and preserves, 61 

Preserved Blackberries. 

Seven pounds of blackberries, four pounds of sugar, one pint 
of vinegar, make a syrup of the sugar and vinegar, put in the 
berries and let them boil half an 'hour; skim out the berries, 
put them in small stone jai's. Boil the syrup until thick and 
rich, and pour while boiling hot, over the berries. Berries pre- 
pared in this manner, keep perfectly and are particularly nice 
for pies. 



CAKES 



In making cake use only the best materials. Eggs will beat 
more quickly if cold. Grease cake pans with fresh lard as it 
is better than butter. Line the bottom of cake tins with pa- 
per. Layer cake tins and patty pans also. Measure the flour 
before sifting unless otherwise stated. Sift the baking powder 
or cream tartar with the flour. 

In mixing cake, flrst beat the butter to a cream, add the su- 
gar and beat light, next beat in the eggs, add the milk, the fla- 
voring and spices ; then the flour, and if there is fruit, roll it in 
flour and stir in last. If the eggs are beaten separately add 
the whites alternately with the flour. 

If cake is baking too fast, take a square of brown paper, and 
make a cap large enough to cover well the cake pan, cut off 
the corners, lay a plait in the middle of each side fastened with 
a pin. This throws it up in the centre, so that the paper does 
not touch the cake. Save the paper caps for next time. If 
necessary to move cake v,^hile baking do so gently. T]-y with 
a broom splint or knitting needle, if done it will not adhere. 

White Mountain Cake. 

One cu]) of butter, three cups of sugar, one cup of sweet milk, 
four cups of flour, whites of ten eggs, three teaspoonf uls of bak- 
ing powder, flavor with bitter almond. 



62 MARflERY DAW IN THE KITCHEN. 

NEAroLiTAN Cake. 

One-half cup of butter, two cups of sugar, one cup of sweet 
milk, two and one-half cups of flour, whites of live eggs, three 
teaspoonf uls of baking powder.- Take four tablespoonf uls of the 
above mixture, add a small bowl of currants, a large bowl of 
raisins, one teaspoonf ul of cloves and cinnamon each, one-quarter 
of a nutmeg, one-half cup of molasses, one-half cu}) of flour. 
Roll the fruit in flour ; bake in a jelly cake tin. The tins should 
be an inch deep. Bake the white mixture in two tins, spread 
with jelly, placing the dark cake between the two white ones. 
Frost tlie loaf. 

Lincoln Cake. 

One-half cup of l^utter, two cups of sugar, one cup of sweet 
milk, three cups of flour, one cup of raisins, two eggs, two tea- 
spoonfuls of baking powder, flavor to taste. 

CocoANUT Cake. 

One cup of butter, three cups of sugar, one cup of sweet milk, 
whites of six eggs, five cups of flour, one cocoaaiut, grated, and 
the milk of the cocoanut, three teaspoonf uls of baking powder. 
Stir the cocoanut in the mixture and bake in one loaf. 

California Cocoanut Jelly Cake. 

One cup of butter, two cups of granulated sugar, one cup of 
milk, one and three-fourth cups of flour, one and one-half cups 
of corn starch, three teaspoonf uls of baking powder, whites of 
eight eggs beaten light. Bake in jelly-cake tins, in five layers. 
Grate with a coarse grater about two cocoanuts. (It is better 
if grated the day before using.) For the above, make a frost- 
ing of the whites of three eggs and sugar to make it quite stiff, 
not hard. Take first a layer of cake, then a layer of jelly, then 
icing sprinkled with the cocoanut, then a layer of cake jelly, 
and so on ; lastly putting icing and cocoanut over the top and 
sides of the cake. 

Clay Cake. 

One-half pound of butter, one pound of sugar, one pound of 
flour, one cup of sour cream, six eggs, one lemon, three tea- 



CAKES. 63 

spoonfuls of baking powder. Sour milk can be used instead of 
cream, b}^ adding quarter of a pound of butter. 

Tri-Color Cake. 

One-half cup of butter, two cups [of sugar, two and one-half 
cups of flour, the whites of five eggs, one cup of sweet milk, 
three teaspoonf uls of baking ' powder. Take one-third of this 
mixture and bake in a jelly-cake tin, (have the tins an inch 
deep), divide the remainder into two parts and color one pink 
with syrup of cochineal ; to the other portion add one teaspoon- 
ful of cinnamon, one-half teaspoonful of cloves, one tablespoon- 
ful of grated chocolate. Take the three cakes after baking and 
place the white one at the bottom, then the brown, and the pink 
one on top ; spread jelly between and frost the top. Flavor 
the pink and white cake to taste. 

Excelsior Sponge Cake. 

Three-quarters of a pound of sugar, one-half pound of flour, 
seven eggs. Break the eggs into a cake bowl, leaving out the 
wdiites of two ; add to the eggs the grated rind of a lemon and 
three teaspoonfuls of juice. Take the sugar, and one-half tum- 
bler of cold water and boil until clear. Pour this hot syrup 
over the unbeaten esfsfs in the bowl and beat with the wheel 
beater fifteen minutes, then stir in lightly the flour sifted two 
or three times. Bake in square tins and frost with the whites 
left out for that purpose. 

Sponge Cake. 

One pound of sugar, one-half pound of flour, ten eggs, one 
lemon, a pinch of salt. Separate the yolks and whites of the 
eggs, beat the sugar with the yolks, very light, add grated rind 
and lemon juice, beat the wdiites to a stiff froth with a pinch of 
salt and stir into the sugar and yolks. Lastly, stir in the well- 
sifted flour as lightly as possible. Bake in a quick oven about 
twenty minutes. 

Drop Sponge Cake or Lady's Fingers. 

One-half pound of sugar, one-quarter pound of flour, four eggs. 
Sift in with the flour one small teaspoonful of baking powder. 



64 :yiAH(;EiiY daw in the kitchen. 

Se])aratc the eggs, beat the wliitcs to a still: froth, beat the yolks 
and sugar together vary light; add the whites, flavoring, and 
lastly the flour. For Lady's Fingers they are baked in long, 
narrow strips, and are nice frosted witli chocolate icing. 

Seneca Sponge Cake. 

Three eggs beaten one minute ; add one and one-half cups 

• of sugar and beat five minutes, one cup of flour and beat one 

minute ; add one-half cup of cold water and another cup of 

flour with one teaspoonful of baking powder sifted thoroughh- 

through it. Flavor to taste and bake in square tins. 

Almond Sponge Cake. 

Whites of ten eggs, one goblet of Hour, one and one-half gob- 
lets of sugar, one teas])oonful of cream of tartar. Bake in two 
jelly cake tins. This will be much lighter to sift the flour three 
or four times as in Angel's Food. For the custard, one-half 
pint of cream or milk. Boil it and stir in three well beaten 
yolks, two tablespoonfuls of sugar, one teaspoonful of corn- 
starcli dissolved in cold milk. Boil until thick. When cool 
add one-half pound of blanched almonds chopped fine, saving 
out two dozen to decorate the top. After putting the cream 
between the cakes, ice the top with the white of one egg, a 
small cup of sugar, and a very little bitter almond; then orna- 
ment with whole almonds in i-ays from the center. 

Pound Cake. 

Three-quarters of a pound of butter, one pound of sugar, one 
pound of flour, one pound of eggs, one glass of brandy, one 
nutmeg. Cream half the flour with the butter, add the brandy 
and nutmeg; beat the yolks light with the sugar, add the 
whites beaten very light and the rest of the flour alternately. 
When thoroughly mixed add the cream, butter and flour, and 
beat steadily for half an hour. 

Measure Pound Cake. 

One cup of eggs, one cup of butter, one and one-half cups of 
sugar ; one and one-half cups of flour. Cream the butter, add 



CAKES. 65 

the flour, and beat thorough! y together ; beat the sugar and eggs 
very light, then put all together. The more it is beaten the bet- 
ter it will be. Flavor with brandy or nutmeg. This cake is 
remarkably good if properly made and baked. 

Orange Cake. 

One-half cup of butter, two cups of sugar, one cup of sweet 
milk, three eggs, three cups of flour, two teaspoonfuls of bak- 
ing powder. Bake in two or three jelly tins. For jelly, the 
juice of one orange and part of the rind grated, two tart apples 
grated, one egg, one small cup of sugar. Put these ingredients 
on tlie range, and cook a few minutes, stirring all the time. 
Spread this between the cakes with a thin layer of frosting, and 
frost the top. 

Oraxge Wafers. 

One-half pound of sugar, one-quarter pound of flour, four 
eggs. Separate the whites and yolks and beat very light, one 
lemon, half the rind, and all the juice, or lemon extract. Drop 
from a teaspoon upon buttered paper, and bake in a quick 
oven. Spread the under side with orange marmalade, and 
place two together. These are very delicious. 

Madalixs. 

One cup of butter, one and three-quarter cups of sugar, one 
cup of milk, three eggs, two cups of flour, one-half cup of corn- 
starch, three teaspoonfuls of baking powder, one teaspoonful of 
vanilla. Bake in patty pans in a quick oven, and frost. Very 
nice. 

Chocolate Layer Cake. 

One-half cup of butter, two cups of sugar, one cup of sweet 
milk, three cups of flour, yolks of five eggs, whites of three, 
two teas})oonfuls of baking powder. Bake in three or four jelly 
tins. Filling. — Beat the whites of the two eggs left, grate 
six tablespoon fuls of chocolate, mix with the whites, add 
enough fine sugar to make a thick frosting. Flavor with 
vanilla. Spread this between the cakes, and on the top and 
sides. 



66 MARGERY DAW IN THE KITCHEX. 

CHoroLATE Cake. 

One cu]) of butter, two caps of sn,u'ar, two cu}).s of Hour, one 
cuj) of grated chocolate, two-thirds of a cu|) of sweet milk, four 
eorgs, three teaspoonfuls of l)aking })owder, one teas})oonful of 

vanilla. 

Chocolate I^clair Cake. 

One large cu]) of sugar, one of ilour, three eggs, three table- 
spoonfuls. of sweet milk, two teaspoonfuls of Tjaking powder. 
Bake in two deej) jelly tins. Filling custard. — One-half cup of 
sugar, one-quarter cup of flour, one ejf<f^ one-half pint of milk. 
When the milk is boiling, add the egg and sugar, and the flour 
mixed smooth with water. Boil until thick. Frosting for top. — 
One egg beaten separatel\^, six tablespoonfuls of grated choco- 
late, thicken with sugar, add a little milk, cook over boiling 

water. 

Jenny Lind Cake. 

Two and one-half cups of sugar, one cup of l)utter, one cup 
of sweet milk, four cups of sifted flour, five eggs, three teaspoon- 
fuls of baking powder. Beat the whites separately. 

Pearl Cake. 

One cup of butter, one cup of sweet milk, two cups of sugar, 
two cups of flour, one cup of corn-starch, whites of six eggs, 
two teaspoonfuls of baking powder. Bake in small loaves. 

Cinnamon Bunn. 

One cup of butter, three scant cu})s of sugar, one cup of 
sweet milk, four cu})s of flour, four eggs, three teaspoonfuls of 
baking powder. Bake in shallow tins. When taken from the 
oven, spread the top with butter, and sift over with fine sugar 
and cinnamon. 

Spanish Bunn. 

One pint of flour, one pint of sugar, one cup oi butter, one 
cup of sweet milk, four eggs, three teaspoonfuls of baking pow- 
der, one tablespoonful of cinnamon, one teaspoonful of cloves. 
Bake in square tins and frost. 



CAKES. " 67 

Angel's Food Cake. 

The whites of eleven eggs, one and one-half tumblers of 
granulated sugar, one tumblei- of flour, one teas])oonfuI of cream 
tartar, one teaspoonful of vanilla. Break the whites of the 
eggs in a large cake bowl, add a pinch of salt, and beat very 
light with an egg beater. Sift the sugar once and stir lightly 
into the beaten whites, add the vnnilla. or other extract if pre- 
ferred, sift your flour four times, then measure ; add the cream 
tartar and sift once more and stir lightly into the eggs and 
sugar. Bake from fort}- minutes to an hour in a moderate oven. 
A tin with a tube in the center is much to be preferred. Do 
not grease the tin, and when taken from the oven, turn upside 
down on a sieve to cool. Tins made purposely for this cake 
can be obtained. 

Rosv MoHN Cake. 

This cake is made the same as Angel's Food and is colored 
to suit the taste, with cochineal syrup, and being a beautiful 
pink, forms a pleasing contrast with the white Angel's Food 
and black cake. 

Sunshine Cake. 

The whites of ten eo-s;s, the volks of seven, one tumbler of 
flour, one and one-half tumblers of granulated sugar, one tea- 
spoonful of cream tartar, juice and rind of one lemon, or one 
teaspoonful of lemon extract, one-half teaspoonful of ammonia. 
Beat the yolks and one-half tumbler of sugar very light, beat 
the whites to a stiff froth, beating in lightly the remainder of 
the sugar ; then add the beaten yolks and sugar, and flavor ; 
stir in the (lour lightl}^, adding the ammonia last. Bake in a 
tin the same as Angel's Food, without greasing it. Sift the su- 
gar once, and the flour four times. Turn the tin upside down 
to cool, as in Angel's Food. 

English Walnut Cake. 

One cup of butter, two cups of sugar, one cup of sweet milk, 
four cups of flour, four eggs, three teaspoonfuls of baking j)Ow- 
der, one cup of chopped English walnuts. Bake in square tins, 



68 MARGERY DAW IN THE KITCHEN 

frost, mark in squares, and ])]ace half a walnut meat on eacli 

piece. 

Miss Eliza Horner's Cup Cake. 

One cup of cream, two cu})s of butter, three cups of sugar, 
five cups of flour, six eggs, one teaspoonful of soda, (if sour 
cream is used) ; if sweet cream, three teaspoonfuls of baking pow- 
der. If liked, raisins may be added. 

Snow Balls. 

Two cups of sugar, one-half cup of butter, one cup of sweet 
milk, three cups of flour, three teaspoonfuls of baking powder, 
whites of five eggs. Bake in deep, square tins. The day fol- 
lowing, cut in two-incli squares, taking the outside off so as to 
leave it all white ; take each piece on a fork and frost upon all 
sides, and roll in freshly grated cocoanut. This is a delicious, 
as well as a novel cake. 

Garfield's AViiims. — 1881. 

One pound of sugar, one-half pound of l)utter, one pound of 
flour, six eggs, one-half pint of sour cream, one teaspoonful of 
soda, one pound of raisins. Bake in patty pans. One glass of 
brandy improves greatly. 

Quick Loaf Cake. 

Three quarters of a cup of butter, one and one-half cu})S of 
sugar, one cup of sweet milk, three cups of flour, whites of two 
eggs, thi-ee teaspoonfuls of baking powder, one wineglass of 
brandy, a half teaspoonful of mace or nutmeg, one cup of raisins. 

Imperial Cake. 

One pound of sugar, one pound of flour, tliree-quarters of a 
pound of butter, one-half pound of almonds, half a pound of 
citron, one pound of raisins, one nutmeg, ten eggs, one wine- 
glass of brandy. This cake will keep for months. 

California Fig Cake. 

One cuj) of sugar, one-half cup of butter, cu}) of flour, one- 
half cup of corn-starch, half a cup of sweet milk, whites of three 



CAKES. 69 

eggs. Bake in two jell}' tins in a quick oven. Take one pound 
of almonds, tliree-quarters of a pound of figs, one cu[) of seeded 
raisins, one-quarter pound of citron ; cliop tliese ingredients fine- 
ly together, and mix with one egg and a small cup of wine, and 
spread between the two cakes. 

Delicate Cake. 

One cup of butter, two cups of sugar, one cup of sweet milk, 
three and one-half cups of flour, whites of five eggs, three tea- 
spoonfuls of baking powder. Beat together thoroughly, adding 
the whites last. Flavor with bitter almond, or vanilla. 

Tumbler Fruit Cake. 

One tumbler of butter, one tumbler of sugar, one tumbler of 
molasses, one tumloler of sweet milk, four tumblers of flour, four 
eggs, one pound of raisins, one pound of currants, one teaspoon- 
ful of soda, one teaspoonful of cloves, one-quarter pound of cit- 
ron, two tablespoonfuls of cinnamon, one glass of brandy, one 
nutmeg. 

Wedding Cake. 

One half cup of butter, one-half cup of sour cream, one cup 
of brown sugar, one cup of molasses, two eggs, two cups of 
flour, a half teaspoonful of soda, one-half cup of brand}', one 
nutmeg, two teaspoonfuls of cinnamon, two of cloves, four 
pounds of raisins, two pounds of currants, and one pound of 
citron. Bake in one loaf about three hours in a moderate oven. 

White Fruit Cake. 

One cup of butter, two cups of sugar, three cups of flour, one- 
half cup of milk, whites of eight eggs, one wineglass of brandy, 
one-quarter of a pound of citron, one-half pound of blanched 
almonds, one-quarter pound of cocoanut. Slice citron, almonds 
and cocoanut very thin and roll in flour. If fresh cocoanut can- 
not be obtained, desiccated can be used. 



70 makg?:ry daw ix the kitchen' 

Black Cake. 

Tliree-c[uarters of a ])Ountl of butter, one })()Uii(l of sugar, one 
pound of flour, ten eggs, one wineglass of brandy, one of wine, 
one of molasses, one of milk, four pounds of raisins, two pounds 
of currants, one })ound of citron, one teaspoonful of soda in 
the milk, one tablespoonful of cinnamon, two teaspoonfuls of 
cloves, one nutmeg, one-quarter of a pound of blanched almonds. 
Stir tlie butter and sugar to a cream, add the eggs well beaten, 
brandy, wine, molasses and milk, with the soda, then the spices 
and flour, reserving enough to roll the fruit in, which is added 
last. Bake in a slow oven three or four hours. 

Hartford Election Cake — "Extra."' 

Four pounds of flour, two pounds of sugar, one pound of 
butter, one pound of lard, two |)Ounds of raisins, one pound of 
citron, four eggs, one quart of new milk, two heaping teaspoon- 
fuls of mace, four nutmegs, half a tumblei-ful each of wine and 
brandy, one })int of home-made yeast. In the morning cream 
the butter and lard, and when very light, add the sugar, mixing 
well, then take a little less than half of it, and rub well into the 
flour. After well warming the flour, add the milk blood warm, 
and the yeast. Mix thorouglily, and let it stand where it will 
keep quite warm, until it becomes very light. Do not disturb 
it while rising, beat the eggs separately and mix with the re- 
mainder of the shortning, adding spice, wine, etc. Mix well, 
let it rise a second time. Next morning when light, fill pans 
two-thirds full, putting in a little at a time, and dropping the 
fruit in thickly, in layers, to prevent its sinking. Bake in a 
slow oven. Observe all of these directions. 

For the yeast, boil a small handful of ho})S in one (juart of 
water, and strain through a sieve, pour boiling hot ov^er the flour 
enough to make a thin batter. When cool, add half a pint of 
distillery yeast, strain again and let it stand until it is very 
liglit and foam3\ Make the yeast the day before you wish to 
make the cake. 



CAKES. 71 

Golden Jl'mbles. 

The yolks of eleven eggs, one cup of butter, two cups of 
sugar, one-half cup of sweet milk, three teaspoonfuls of baking- 
powder, two and one-quarter cu})s of flour, making nearly as 
stiff as pound cake. Bake in thin cakes in square tins or in a 
dripping pan.' When baked, moisten the top with sweet milk, 
while hot, and sprinkle with sugar. Cut from the tins in small 
squares. 

Jumbles. 

One pound of butter, one 2)ound of sugar, two pounds of 
flour, three eggs, nine teaspoonfuls of water, three teaspoon- 
fuls of baking powder, salt, and flavor to taste. Handle lightly, 
roll thin, and bake in a quick oven. These jumbles are very 
nice, and will keep two or three months. 

Almond Cookies. 

One egg, two cups of sugar, one cup of butter, one-half cup 
of water, with one-half teaspoonful of soda dissolved therein. 
Make them quite stiff with flour, roll thin. When in the tins 
ready to bake, wet with lemon juice, sift sugar over them, and 
lay upon each cookie two almond meats previously blanched 
and halved. Flavor with grated lemon peel and bake quickly. 

Love Knots. 

Five cups of flour, two cups of sugar, one cup of butter, a 
piece of lard the size of an egg, two eggs, three tablespoonfnls 
of sweet milk, half a teaspoonful of soda. Rub the butter, 
flour and sugar together fine, add the other ingredients, roll 
thin, cut in strips one inch wide and five inches long, and lap 
across in love knots, and bake in a quick oven. 

New Year's Cakes. 

Seven 230unds of flour, three and one-half pounds of sugar, 
one and three-fourth pounds of butter, one teaspoonful of soda, 
one ounce of caraway seed. Moisten with enough tepid water 
to roll out. 



72 margery daav in tiik kitchen. 

Gingerbread. 

One pint of flour, one and one-half cups of molasses, one- 
half cup of butter and lard mixed, two tablespoonfuls of sweet 
milk, two tablespoonfuls of water, one teaspoonful of soda, one 
tablespoon ful of ginger, two teaspoonfuls of cinnamon and two 

eggs. 

Katie's Ginger Snaps. 

One })int of molasses, one cup of brown sugar, one cup of 
lard, one cup of boiling water, two teaspoonfuls of soda, one 
teaspoonful of ginger, one teaspoonful of cloves, flour sufficient 
to roll out. Roll very thin and bake in a quick oven. 

Bath Ginger Snaps. 

One large cup of butter, one of brown sugar, one of sour 
cream, two of molasses, one of lard, two tablespoonfuls of gin- 
ger, two of cinnamon, one of cloves, one of soda, flour enough 
to mix soft. Roll thin and bake quickly. 

Bolivars. 

One cup of shortning, one cup of sugar, two cups of molasses, 
one cup of tepid water, one tablespoonful of soda, one teaspoon- 
ful of salt, one tablespoonful of ginger if desired. Just flour 
enough to roll, and cut thick. 

Fairy Gingerbread. 

One cup of butter, two cups of sugar, one cup of sweet milk, 
four cups of flour, three-quarters of a teaspoonful of soda, two 
teaspoonfuls of ginger. Beat the butter to a cream, add the 
sugar gradually, and when very light add the ginger, the milk 
in which the soda has been dissolved, finally the flour. Turn 
dripping pans upside down and wipe the bottoms clean, butter 
them, and spread the mixture very thin on them ; bake in a mod- 
erate oven until brown. While still hot cut into squares with 
a case knife and slip from the pan. This is delicious. Keep 
in a tin box. Spread on the })an as thin as a wafer, and cut 
the moment it comes from the oven. MiSS Parloa. 



CAKES. 78 

Mes. Dr. Kudd's Ginger Cake.— 1827. 

One cup of sugar, one cu}) of molasses, one cap of batter, 
three eggs, a tablespooiiful of cloves, one of ginger, a very little 
soda, and flour enough to make as thick as pound cake. 
Bake in a slow oven. 

Molasses Cakes. 

One pint of molasses, one large cup of sour milk, one egg, 
a piece of butter the size of an egg, one tablespoonful of soda? 
one tablespoonful of ginger, one quart of flour. Heat all these 
ingredients together, milk warm, except the flour, stirring it 
all the time; take from 'the range, add the flour and bake in 
patty pans, or if preferred, in dripping pans, and cut in squares. 
These are unsurpassed. 

Cinnamon Sand Tarts. 

Eight ounces of butter, one pound of flour, one pound ol: 
brown sugar, three eggs. Rub the butter and sugar to a cream, 
add the eggs, leaving out the white of one ; stir in the flour, 
roll thin, cut in three-inch squares. Before putting into the 
oven, rub the top with the white of the egg and sprinkle with 
cinnamon and sugar mixed. Place a blanched almond in the 
center or part of one in each corner, and bake in a quick oven. 

Doughnuts. 

One pint warm milk, one teacup of lard, one teacup of yeast, 

one teaspoonful of salt, flour enough to make a stiff batter, 

(about 2 P. M.) Before bed time, mix the yolks of four eggs 

with two and one-half cups of sugar, then the whites beaten to 

a stifl: froth, and one teaspoonful of cinnamon. Mix very soft 

indeed. Roll out and cut before breakfast, and fry immediately 

after. 

Crullers. 

One pound of sugar, three-quarters of a ])ound of butter, 
eleven eggs, flour to make them stiff enough to roll out. Cut 
in forms, and fry in hot lard. 



74 margery daty i^ the kitchen. 

Dominoes. 

Have sponge or j)]ain cake baked in i-atlicr thin slieets and 
cut into small oblong |)ieces tlie size aiid shape of a domino, a 
trifle larger. Frost the to}) and sides. When the frosting is 
hard, draw the black lines and make the dots, with a small 
brush, dipped in melted chocolate. These are very nice for 
children's parties. The lines and dots can also be made with 
thin ])ink frosting on white, or white dots on ])irdv frosting. 

Boiled FrostinCx. 

One pint granulated sugar, moisten with water sufficient to 
dissolve it. Let it boil until it threads from the spoon, stirring- 
it often. Beat the whites of two eggs to a stiff froth, place in a 
deep dish, and turn the boiling sugar over them ; beat cpiickly 
until of the right consistency to spread over the cake ; this is 
sufficient for two loaves. Flavor as you like. 

Frosting. 

The whites of three eggs, one ])ound of powdered sugar, one- 
half teaspoonful of crearn tartar, a little flavoring. Put the 
whites of the eggs in a bowl with a little of the sugar, and beat 
with a wire spoon to a froth, then add the sugar and the cream 
tartar, a little at a time, beating constantly until when the frost- 
ing is drojjped from the spoon the dro])s retain their form; 
add the flavoring. If the quantity of sugar given is not suffi- 
cient add more. This recipe is enough for two cakes. One or 
two drops of boiling water makes frosting smoother for the out- 
side coat. Pink frosting is very effective on some cakes. Ob- 
tain the desired shade by adding to plain frosting a few drops 
of cochineal syrup. 

Chocolate Frosting. 

Make plain frosting, take part of a cake of baker's chocolate, 
break in pieces, and set in an earthen dish in the oven to melt ; 
do not let it cook. When melted, beat into the white frosting 
the melted chocolate, until you have it a good chocolate (or sat- 
isfactory) color. Flavor with vanilla. 



CAKES. 75 

Golden Frosting. 

Take the yolks of two eggs, beat in powdered sugar enough 
to make it the consistency of ordinary frosting ; flavor with 
lemon. This frosting is better to use when first made. 

Nut Frosting. 

Make either plain or boiled frosting, using a little less sugar. 
If almonds are used, blanch and ]iound, or chop them very fine, 
using about a handful of sweet almonds to the quantity given. 
Hickory nuts can be chopped and used in same manner. 

Cochineal Syrup. 

Put one ounce of cochineal into a bowl, pour over it one and 
one-half ounces of aqua ammonia, stirring it well. Let it stand 
two days near the range, stirring it two or three times. Then 
pour over it six ounces of hot water, add r)ne-qnarter pound of 
sugar and one medium teaspoonful cream tartar. Mix well, 
strain through a coarse muslin, and bottle. A few drops is suf- 
ficient. 



CANDIES. 



Molasses Candy. 

Two cups of molasses, one cup of sugar, a piece of butter the 
size of a small egg, one tablespoonful of glycerine. Put these 
ingredients into a kettle, and boil hard tw^enty or thirty min- 
utes ; when boiled thick, drop a few drops in a cup of cold water, 
and if the drops retain their shape, it is nearly done, which 
will be when it is brittle ; do not boil it too much. Have pans 
or platters well buttered, and just before the candy is poured 
into them, stir in one-half teaspoonful of cream tartar, or soda. 
If flavoring is desired, drop the flavoring on the top, as it be- 



76 MAKfiEliY DAW IN THE KITCIIEX. 

gins to cool, and when it is })ullecl the whole will be flavored. 
Pull till as white as desired, and draw into sticks, and cut with 

shears. 

Molasses Taffy. 

One cup of molasses, one cup of sugar, a piece of butter the 
size of an egg. Boil hard, test in cold water ; when brittle, pour 
in thin cakes on buttered tins; as it cools mark in squares with 
the back of a knife. 

Butter Scotch. 

One cup of brown sngai', one-half cup of water, one teaspoon-, 
fal vinegar, piece of butter the size of a walnut Boil about, 
twent}' minutes ; flavor if desired. 

Pea-Nut Candy. 

Two cups of molasses, one cup of brown sugar, one table- 
spoonful of butter, one of vinegar. Put into a kettle to boil. 
Having cracked and rubbed the skin from the pea-nuts, put 
them into buttered pans, and when the candy is done, pour it 
over the nuts. Cut into blocks while warm. 

IloRE HOUND Candy. 

Steep one tablespoonful of horehound, (dried leaves) in one- 
half cup of water ; strain and add one pint of sugar, one table- 
spoonful of vinegar. Boil without stirring, test in cold water, 
and when brittle pour into buttered pans, marking off in squares 
while warm, with the back of a knife. 

Pop-Corn Balls. 

Two cups of molasses, one cup of brown sugar, one table- 
spoonful of vinegar, a piece of butter size of a small egg. Make 
the candy in a large kettle, pop the corn, salt it, and sift it 
through the fingers, that the extra salt, and unpopped kernels 
may drop through. (It will take four quarts or more of corn 
that is popped.) Then stir all tlie corn into the kettle that the 
candy will take, heap it on buttered platters, or make into 
balls. 



CANDIES. 77 

Vanilla Sugar Candy. 

Two pounds of granulated sugar, two-thirds of a cup of water, 
one-third cup of vinegar, butter the size of an egg, one table- 
spoonful of glyceiine, two teaspoonfuls of vanilla. Boil all ex- 
cept the vanilla without stirring, twenty minutes or half an 
hour, till crisp, when dropped into water. Just before pouring 
upon platters to cool, add a small teaspoonful of soda, or cream 
tartar. After pouring upon the platters to cool, pour the two 
teaspoonfuls of vanilla over the top. You can pull it beauti- 
fully white. Draw it into sticks the size you wish, and cut off 
with shears, into sticks or kiss-shaped drops, to suit the eaters. 
If you can succeed in keeping it a week, it will become creamy. 

WiNTERGREEN CaNDY. 

Make the candy the same as the vanilla, and after it is poured 
upon the platter to cool, drop over the top one or two teaspoon- 
fuls of wintergreen essence to taste, and color pink by dropping 
a few drops of cochineal syrup either in the boiling candy or 
on the top with the flavoring. Make into sticks or kisses. 

French Cream Candy. 

Four cups of white sugar, one cup of hot water, flavor with 
vanilla ; put the sugar and water in a bright tin pan on the 
range, and let it boil without stirring, about eight minutes, and 
if it looks somewhat thick, test by letting some drop from the 
spoon, and if it threads remove the pan to the table, taking a 
small spoonful and rubbing it against the side of a cake bowl, 
and if creamy and will roll into a ball between the fingers, pour 
the whole into the bowl and beat rapidly with a large spoon or 
porcelain potato masher. If it is not boiled enough to cream, 
set it back upon the range, let it remain one or two minutes or 
as long as it is necessary, taking care not to cook it too much. 
Add the vanilla (or other flavoring) as soon as it begins to cool. 
This is the foundation for all French creams. It can be made 
into rolls and sliced off, or packed in plates and cut into small 
cubes, or made into any shape imitating French candies. A 



78 MARGERY DAW IN THE KITCIIEX. 

pretty form is made by coloring some of the cream pink, tak- 
ing a piece about as large as a liazcl nut, and crowding an 
almond meat half way into one side, till it looks like a bursting 
kenu'l. In working should the cream get too cold, warm it. 

Peppermint Creams. 

Make cream as previously directed, flavoring quite strong 
with essence of peppermint; take off small bits and shape into 
round flat forms. 

WiNTERGREEN CrEAMS. 

Make cream as directed, flavor with wintergreen, color pink 
with cochineal syrup, and form into round lozenger shapes. 

Fruit Cream. 

Add to French cream, raisins, currants, figs, a little citron, 
chopped and mixed thoroughly through the cream while quite 
warm. Make into bars or flat cakes. 

Nut Creams. 

Chop almonds, hickory, butternuts, or English walnuts, quite 

fine, and mix into French cream, forming into balls, bars or 

flat cakes. 

Walnut Creams. 

Take a piece of French cream the size of a walnut. Having 
cracked some English walnuts, using care not to break the 
meats ; place one-half of each nut upon each side of the ball 
pressing them into the ball. 

Panache Cream. 

Make the French cream recipe, and divide into three parts, 
leaving one part white, color one pink with cochineal S3a'up, and 
the third part color brown with chocolate, which is done by 
just letting the cream soften and stirring in a little finely grated 
chocolate. The piidv is colored by dropping on a few drops of 
cochineal syrup while the cream is warm, and beating it in. 
Take the white cream, make a flat ball of it, and lay it upon a 



CANDIES. 79 

buttered dish and pat it out flat until about half an inch thick. 
If it does not work easily dip the hand in alcohol. Take the 
pink cream, work in the same way as the white and lay it upon 
the white ; then the chocolate in the same manner, and lay 
upon the pink, pressing all together. Trim the edges off 
smooth, leaving it in a nice square cake, then cut into slices or 
small cubes, as 3^ou prefer. It is necessary to work it all up as 
rapidly as possible. 

Chocolate Creams. 

Use French cream and form it into small cone-shaped balls 
with the fingers. Lay them upon oiled paper to harden until 
all are formed. Melt one cake of baker's chocolate in an earth- 
en dish or small basin ; by setting it in the oven it will soon 
melt; do not let it cook. To keep the chocolate hot, it is well 
to have a hot soap-stone, and place the basin with the chocolate 
upon it. Take the balls of cream one at a time on a silver fork, 
pour the melted chocolate over them with a teaspoon, and when 
well covered, slip them fi-om the fork upon oiled paper. 

Cocoanut Cakes. 

Two caps of sugar, one-half cup of water, let it boil till it crisps 
iu water, (or the same as French cream,) take off and stir till it 
creams. One grated cocoanut stirred in after the candy is beat- 
en to a cream, make in good sized cakes, but thin. Reserve 
about two tablespoonfuls of the cream, add a little cocoanut and 
enough cochineal syrap to color it pink, and drop a little upon 
the center of the cakes. AVork very quickly, else it will cool. 

Chocolate Caramels. 

One cup of grated chocolate, one cup of luolasses, one cup of 
brown sugar, one cup of milk, a piece of butter the size of a 
small egg. Put all the ingredients in a kettle to boil, adding 
one tablespoonful of glycerine, and boil fast. When nearly 
done add the chocolate ; test it b}^ dropping into cold water, and 
when done pour into buttered pans. When cool mark into 
blocks with the back of a knife. 



SUGGESTIONS FOR THE SICK ROOM. 



Never keep f nut ill u sick room; the sight of it is apt to 
lessen the appetite for it. An orange delicately prepared, or a 
bunch of nialaga or other nice grapes, brought in on a dessert 
plate with a few green leaves, will form a tempting and agree- 
able surprise to the capricious appetite of an invalid. 

Sago, prepared like a custard, then baked with aj^ples, is an 
excellent sick room pudding. 

Oysters are good for the sick, especially raw, (without vine- 
gar, lemon juice may be used,) a very few at a time. They are 
easily digested and agreeable to the palate. 

Fresh tea shoidd l)e made as often as the invalid needs it, 
and no food or drinks should remain in the sick room, but 
should be kept in an adjoining room or out side of the window 
where they would be fresh and cool. The fevered atmosphere 
of the sick room, ]iasses readil)^ into the composition of food. 
Invalid's Bill of Fare. 

Breakfast. — Oranges, oatmeal, jelly and cream, dry toast, soft 
boiled eggs, cocoa. 

Lunch. — At 11 o'clock a. m., tea, steamed crackers, baked 
sweet apples. 

Dinner. — Cln'cken soup, oysters on half shell, raised roll. 

Dessert. — Boiled rice with maple sja'up, malaga grapes, wine- 
glass of sherry. 

Tea. — Milk toast with jelly, baked potato, milk l)roth. 

Swpper. — At 9 p. m. A bowl of delicate broth with a .few 
bits of stale bread, or cracker dropped in it, and a tablespoonful 
of wine added. 

Food for the sick should be of the best (quality, and neatly 
and delicately prepared. 

Every meal should be a surprise, and the patient should l)e 
left alone while eating, if possible. 

Food should be made as attractive as possible, served in the 
choicest china, with the cleanest of napkins, and the brightest 
of silver. 



suggestions for the sick r00]\[. bl 

Beef Tea. 

Take one pound of lean beef chopped tine, (at tlie market), 
pour over it one pint of cold water, let it stand an hour. Then 
set it on the back of the range, and let it simmer slowly about 
three-quarters of an honr ; strain and salt when used. 

Chicken" Broth. 

One chicken jointed, cover it with water, and let it boil, close- 
ly covered, until the meat drops from the bones. Skim off tlie 
fat, strain and season with salt, and if desired a teaspoonful or 
two of rice, and let it boil until the rice is cooked. In some 
cases of nausea a cup of chicken broth will prove efficacious. 

Mutton Broth. 
To each pound of meat add one quart of cold water, bring 
gently to a boil, skim it and salt to taste ; simmer three hours. 
A teaspoonful or more of rice may be added, and boil till the 
rice is cooked. 

Water Gruel. 

Mix two tablespoonfuls of Indian meal, and one of flour, 
with a little cold water, and stir it into a quart of water, and 
let it boil three-quarters of an hour, salt to taste, and if desired, 
flavor with nutmeg or cinnamon. A few raisins, and a small 
piece of butter may also be added. 

Raisin Gruel. 

One pint of water, and one handful of seeded raisins boiled 
therein until tender. Add one teaspoonful of flour wet with 
cold water. A little wnne or nutmeg may be added, or both if 
prcfen-ed. 

' Oatmeal Gruel. 

Stir two large spoonfuls of oatmeal into one pint of boiling 
water, boil it gently one-half hour, skim, add a little salt, sugar 

and nutmeg. 

Buckwheat Gruel (for Nausea). 

One quart of boiling water, stirring into it one tablespoonful 
of buckwheat flour, and one dozen seeded raisins ; salt to taste, 
boil one hour. 



82 makgery daw in the kitchen. 

Flaxseed Tea. 

One-half pound of flaxseed, one-half ])ound of rock candy, 
the juice of three lemons, the skins may be cut into small })ieces 
and added. Pour over this two (quarts of boiling water, and 
let it stand until perfectly cold. Strain before drinking ; this is 
good for a cough, (more sugar and lemon may be added). 

For Hoarseness. 

Beat the whites of two eggs to a stiff froth, add two table- 
spoonfuls of sugar, a little nutmeg, and one-half pint of tepid 
water, the juice of half a lemon. If one quantit}^ does not re- 
lieve, prepare another. 

Cough Syruf. 

One pint of boiling water, poured over one pound of loaf 
sugar, when cold add one ounce of wood naptha and one-half 
ounce of paragoric, stir well and cork tightly. Dose. — One tea- 
s230onful three times a day. If necessary more frequently. 

Cure for a Felon. 

Two drachms of gum ammoniac dissolved in one ounce of 
alcohol. Bind the finger u}) in a linen cloth, and kee^^ it con- 
stantly wet with the solution. Add more alcohol if necessary. 
(Gum ammoniac is a brown gum.) This has been tried yox^ 
successfully. 

Cholera Infantum. 

Steep one teaspoonful each of ground cinnamon, cloves and 
allspice in a little water. Then stir in enough ground flaxseed 
with one teaspoonful of bi-andy, to make a stiff batter; spread 
this on thin pieces of muslin, and lay on the pit of the stomach 
and small of the back. 

Hop Bitters. 

A double handful of hops, same quantity of dandelion roots 
and yellow dock, one-half ounce of buchu, one-fourth ounce of 
mandrake, one-fourth ounce of wild cherry bark. Pour two 
quarts of water over all but the hops, and let sinnuer four or 



SUGGESTIONS FOR THE SICK ROOM. 83 

live hours, then add tlie hops, and let all simniei- an Ikjui' or 
two. Then strain and it will be ready for use. Dose. — Onedialf 
a wineglassful before each meal. (Sufficient water should be 
added to make two quarts. A little spirits can also be added 
to keep it.) 

Sago Jelly. 

One quart of boiling water, six tablespoonfuls of sago, six 
tablespoonfuls of sugar, boiled to a jell}^, stirring all the time ; 
flavor with vanilla, nutmeg or cinnamon. Pour it into a mould 
or cups and eat cold with cream. 

Panada. 

Take four ci'ackers, break them into a bowl. Add one or 
two tablespoonfuls of sugar, a small bit of butter, one or two 
tablespoonfuls of whisky. Pour over tlie whole one-half pint 
of boiling water, and grate over it a little nutmeg. 

Arrow-Root Custards. 

Boil one pint of milk, and while boiling stir into it one table- 
spoonful of arrow-root, mixed smooth with a little cold milk, 
add a little salt and let it boil three or four minutes, and then 
let it cool and add two beaten eggs, sugar and nutmeg to taste. 
Return to the range, and stir all the time till it boils ; then pour 
into custard cups. 

Baked Milk. 

Bake two quarts of fresh milk in a moderate oven eight or 
ten hours in a jar. Cover the jar with white paper tied well 
over the top. When baked, it will be as thick as cream, and 
can be used by very delicate persons. 

To Check a Cold. 

As soon as you feel that you have taken cold, fill a glass half 
full of water, drop into it six drops of spirits of camphor, stir it 
and take a dessertspoonful ev^ery twenty minutes. This is re- 
markably successful if taken according to direction. 



81 MAllGERY DAW IN THE KITCHEN. 



SUNDRIES. 



For Cornincx Beef. 

Cut and pack the beef in a barrel. For one hundred pounds 
take six pounds of salt, two ounces of salt-petre, one cup of 
molasses, (or one-half pound of sugar,) put them into sufficient 
watex' to cover the beef. Boil the brine, and skim until clear, 
and pour over the beef while scalding hot. After one week it 
will be ready for use. 

French Mustard. 

Four tablespoonfuls of mustard, one tablespoonfnl of sugar, 
one teaspoonful of salt, one teaspoonful of cinnamon, one-half 
teaspoonful of cloves, one-half teaspoonful black pepper, one- 
half teaspoonful of flour, vinegar eiu^ugh to cover, making it 
quite moist. Mix all together smooth, and put it on the lire, 
letting it come to a boil. After it is cold, add one or two table- 
spoonfuls of salad oil and mix thoroughly. 

Lemonade. 

Two large, juicy lemons, or three smaller ones, one large cup 
of sugar, and one fpaart of ice water. Eipe sti-awberrics mashed 
and added are very delicious, or grated })ineap}»le, if j)reCerred. 

GuAVA Jelly Punch. 

One part of sour (lime or lemon juice), two parts of sweet 
(guava jelly and white sugar dissolved in boiling water), three 
parts of strong (old rum), four parts of weak (water). This is 
a very old recipe. 

Ginger Cordial. 

Four pounds of red or white currants, eight ounces of ginger 
root, two ounces of bittrr almonds, one-half ounce of sweet al- _ 
monds, three lemons sliced, one gallon of whisky. Mash the 



SUNDRIES. 85 

currants, cut the ginger into small pieces, crack and split the 
nuts. Pour the whisky over these ingredients, and let it stand 
ten days ; then pour it oS carefull}', add four pounds of loaf 
sugar, and bottle it. 

Saksaparilla Syrup. 

One-half pound of Spanish sarsaparilla, boil in two gallons of 
water four hours. Add enough water to make one gallon ; 
then add e^ght pounds of sugar, and five ounces of tartaric 
acid, mix thoroughly, boil two or three minutes and bottle. 

Put two tablespoonfuls of the s_yrup in two-thirds of a glass 
of ice water. Add a little soda, and drink while foaming. 

Fine Cologne Water. 

Oil of lemon two drachms, oil of rosemary two drachms, oil 
of lavender one drachm, oil of bergamot two drachms, oil of 
cinnamon ten dr(ips, oil of cloves ten drops, oil of roses two 
drops, tincture of musk eight drops. Put all these oils into a 
quart of the best alcohol, cork tightly and shake hard for a few 
minutes. It improves by age. If you wish it stronger useless 
alcohol. Good ; tiy it. 

Recipe for Yeast. 

One ounce of hops, one pint of corn (yellow) lightly browned. 
Boil each separately in one quart of water twenty minutes, then 
strain through a cloth. Two quarts of potatoes boiled in half 
a gallon of water, washed through a sieve, one teacup of sugar, 
half a teacup of salt. Let it cool and then put in two yeast 
cakes. Let it stand over night and bottle. Do not cork too 
tightly until the next day. 

Tooth Powder. i: 

One-fourth of a pound preci})itated chalk, one-fourth ' of a 
pound of })ulverizcd orris root, one ounce of pulveri;^ed siigar. . 
Mix all together and flavor with wintergreen. 

Something Worth Knowing. 

The great annoyance of those baking pies, is the loss of the 
rich syrup of juicy pies, which not only injures them,; but tries 



86 MARGERY DAW IN THE KITCHEN. 

the patience of the housekeeper. To })revcnt this, take a strij) 
of muslin one inch wide, and long enough to go around the 
pie and lap. Wet the cloth in cold water, and lay it ai'ound 
the pie, half upon the pie and half upon the plate, pressing it 
either side. When the pie is taken from the oven, remove the 
cloth. This is a success. Try it. 

College Hill Pie -Plant Pie. 

Stew and strain through a colander sufficient pie-plant to fill 
a large coffee cup. (It will require more pie-plant than for an or- 
dinary pie.) Return the strained pulp to the range, take one 
heaping tablespoonful of corn-starch, mixed in a little cold 
water, and stir into the pie-plant. Beat the yolks of three eggs, 
with a large cup of sugar, and stir well into the mixture. Bake 
with one crust, and cover with meringue made of the whites of 
the eggs. 



WEIGHTS AND MEASURES. 

One quart of flour weighs one pound and one ounce. 
One pint soft butter (well packed) weighs one pound. 
Two teacupfuls of granulated sugar weighs one pound. 
A common-sized tumbler holds one half pint. 
Four teacupfuls equal one quart. 
Four tablespoon fuls are equal to one-half gill. 
Sixteen ounces make one pound. 
A common-sized wineglass holds one-half gill. 
One tablespoonful of granulated sugar weighs one ounce. 
Two teaspoonfuls of flour, sugar, or meal, equal one table- 
spoonful. 

One tablespoonful of soft butter, weighs 'one ounce. 

Soft butter the size of an egg, weighs two ounces. 

Eight tablespoonfuls of liquid equal one-half tumbler. 

Two tablespoonfuls contain a fluid ounca 

Four gills make one }nnt. 

Two pints make one quart. 

Four quarts make one gallon. 

Ten medium sized eggs weigh one pound. 



