/ 

HOW TO COOK. 



THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND. 



CONTAINING 

VALUABLE RECIPES FOR COOKING ALL KINDS OF 
MEATS, FISH, OYSTERS AND GAME. 

ALSO 

FULL DIRECTIONS 

HOW TO MAKE BREAD, CAKE, 

PIES, PUDDINGS, AND ALMOST EVERY DISH 

THAT IS USED IN FAMILY 

COOKING. 



THIS BOOK HAS BEEN CAREFULLY PREPARED BY AN OLD 

AND EXPERIENCED COOK IN ONE OF OUR 

LEADING RESTAURANTS. 



3Uj3/h 



NEW YORK: 

FRANK TOUSEY, PUBLISHER, 
18 Rose Street. 



('7Sfi) 



-X 



^p- 



Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1881, by 

FRANK TOUSEY, 

in the office of the Librarian of Congress at Washington, D. C, 



CONTENTS, 



Pages. 



SOUPS.— Ox-tail— Soup ala Julienne; or, Vegetable 
— Chicken — Macaroni — Clam Chowder — Beef 
Broth — Kidney Soup — Oyster Soup — Clam 
Soup ---... 7—8 

ROAST MEATS.— Beef— Venison— Pork— Shoulder of 
Mutton — Stuffed Leg of Mutton — Veal — Ham 
. —Pig's Head— Beef Heart - - - 9—10 

STEWED MEATS.— Shin of Beef— Beef with Onions 
— English Stew of Cold Roast Beef — Loin of 
Mutton — Lrish Stew — Ham, Boiled — Bullock's 
Head, Boiled— Pig's Head, Boiled— Potted Veal 
—Leg of Mutton, Boiled— Beef, Boiled— Beef 
a la mode — Calves' Tongues — Kidneys - 10 — 13 

BROILED AND FRIED MEATS.— Steaks, Broiled- 
Beef Steaks, Fried— Pork Chops, Fried— Pork 
Sausages, Fi'ied — Lamb Steaks, Fried — Calf's 
Liver and Bacon, Fried — Veal Cutlets — Veal 
Cutlets with Fine Herbs — Pork Chops, another 
way — Ham and Eggs— Potted Ox Tongue — 
Tripe — Beef Steak Smothered with Onions 13 — 15 

MEAT PIES.— Beef Steak Pie— Mutton Pie— Cheshire 

Pork Pie—Veal Pie - - - - 15-16 

111 



iv CONTENTS. 

HASH.— Beef —Mutton - 16 

MISCELLANEOUS MEATS.— Bologna Sausage— , 

Minced Veal— Mint Sauce for Roast Lamb - 17 

POULTRY, GAME, ETC.— Roast Turkey— Roast 

Partridge — Roast Chicken — Stewed Duck with 1 

Green Peas— Chicken Fricassee— Chicken Jelly 
— StuflBng for Turkey— Sage and Onion Stuff- 
ing—Roast Wild Fowl— Prairie Chicken- 
Chicken Croquettes— Roast Ducks— Boiled 
Turkey— Game Pie— Stewed Rabbits - 17—20 

FISH,— Broiled Salmon — Pickled Salmon — Boiled 
Salmon — Broiled Mackerel — Shad Roes — Fried 
Eels— Baked Shad, Rock Fish or Bass— Fresh 
Halibut Fish Balls— Stewed Halibut— Sun Fish 
—Frost Fish— Smelts— Minnows— Large Fish 
Baked Whole— Chowder . » - 20—32 

OYSTERS, CLAMS ,AND SHELL FISH.— Broiled 
Oysters --Scalloped Oysters — Oyster Pie — 
Stewed Oysters— Fried Oysters — Lobster Pat- 
ties—Clam Fritters— Crab Pie— Cold Lobster — 
Soft-shell Crabs - - . . 23—24 

VEGETABLES, ETC.— Green Peas— Fried Tomatoes ^ 

— Green Corn — Lima Beans— String Beans — 
Potato Balls— Potatoes Mashed with Onions — 
Roasted Potatoes — Boiled Potatoes — Fried 
Potatoes— Spinach — Sweet Potatoes, Boiled, 
Baked and Roasted — Boiled Beets — Boiled 
Cabbage— Cauliflowers— Egg Plants — Aspara- 
gus—French or Scarlet Beans— Winter Squash 
—Succotash. - - - , - 24—27 



CONTENTS. V 

EGGS.— Boiled— Poached— Omelettes— Egg Balls - 28 

DESSERTS. -Floating Island— Plain Bread Pudding- 
Hard Times Pudding — Baked Custard— Lemon 
Custard — Apple Dumplings, Boiled — Baked — 
Suet Pudding — Poor Man's Pudding — Arrow- 
root Blanc Mange — Cheap Plum Pudding — 
Plum Puddiug — Indian Pudding — Old-Fasbion- 
ed Boiled Indian Meal Pudding— Mince Pie- 
Apple Pie — Rhubarb Pie — Cocoanut Pie — 
Squash. Pie — Pumpkin Pie— Custard Pie- 
Lemon Meringue Pie — Tomato Pie - 29 — 33 

SAUCES, ETC. -White Wine— Parsley— Apple- 
Bread— Cranberry— Tomato— Celery — Toma- 
to Catsup — Clear Gravy^— A rrowroot Sauce for 
Plum Pudding— Beef Tea— Lobster Salad- 
Cheap Brown Gravy — Mushroom Sauce- 
Mint Sauce 32—34 

PICKLES.— Green Pickles for Daily Use— Pickled Beet 
—Chow-Chow— Peppers— Pickled Red Cab- 
bage—Cucumbers—Onions - - - 34—35 

BREAD, BISCUIT^ AND PASTRY.— Family Bread 
—Milk Bread— Corn Bread— Brown Bread- 
Rye and Indian Bread— MufBns-Excellent \ 
Biscuits— French Bread and French Rolls- 
Indian Johnny Cake— Tea Biscuits— Flour 
Muffins— Corn Muffins— Plain Biscuits— Paste 
for Custards— Common Yeast - - 36—38 

CAKES, TARTS, ETC.— Plum Cake or Wedding 
Cake— Marble Cake— Macaroons— Sponge Cake 
— Chocolate Cake — Lemon Cake —Loaf Cake — 



CONTENTS, 

Ginger Cake— Washington Cake-Jumbles^ 
Jelly Cake— Seed Cake— Plain Cake— Cran- 
berry Tart— Open Tarts— Cherry Tarts- 
Rhubarb Tart— Plain Apple Tart— Crullers- 
Doughnuts— Ginger Snaps— Cookies- -Frosting 
for Cake—Charlotte Russe— Molasses Ginger- 
bread . - _ _ - 



as— 4# 



GRIDDLE CAKES, PANCAKES, ETC.— Buckwheat 
Cakes— Graham Griddle Cakes— Rice Cakes- 
Waffles— Indian Griddle Cakes— Apple Frit- 
ters—Snow Pancakes „ . - 42— 4S 

PRESERVES, JELLIES, JAMS, ETC.— Strawberry 
Jam— Apple Marmalade— Gooseberry Jam — 
Pineapples— Orange Marmalade— Grape Jelly 
—Wine Jell3'-Preserved Strawberries— Calves' 
Foot Jelly— 'Apple Jam— Green Gage Jam — 
Preserved Lemon Peel— Raspberry Jelly- 
Brandy Peaches— Plums, etc. - , - 43— HI 

COFFEE, TEA AND CHOCOLATE.— Excellent Cof 
fee— Tea— Chocolate — Substitute for Cream in 
Coffee or Tea _ - - - 46—47 



USEFUL RECIPES— Cold in the Head— Hoarseness, 
or Tickling in the Throat — Cure for Freckles- 
Remove Stains from Hands— Remove Rust- 
Prepare an Invigorating Bath— Clean Silver- 
Spruce Beer— Cottage Beer— Brighten a Cop- 
per Boiler— Cage Birds, How to Keep Them 
Healthy _ - - - - 

MISCELLANEOUS , .- - - 



47-49 



49-60 



HOW TO COOK 



The Housekeeper's Friend. 

SOUPS. 

Ox-Tail Soup. — Time, four hours and a half. —Cnt up two 
ox-tails, separating them at the joints; put them into a stew- 
pan with about an ounce and a half of butter, ahead of celery, 
two onions, two turnips, and two carrots cut into slices, and a 
quarter of a pound of lean ham cut very thin ; the pepper corns 
and savory herbs, and about half a pint of cold water. Stir it 
over a quick fii-e for a short time to extract the flavor of the 
herbs, or until the pan is covered with a glaze. Then pour iu 
three quarts of water, skim it well, and simmer slowly for 
four hours, or until the tails are tender. Take them out, strain 
the soup, stir in a little flour to thicken it, add a glass of port 
wine, the catsup, and half a head of celery (previously boiled 
and cut into small pieces). Put the pieces of tail into the stew- 
pan with the strained soup. Boil it up for a few minutes, and 
serve. This soup can be served clear, by omitting the flour 
and adding to it carrots and turnips cut into fancy shapes, 
with a head of celerj"- in slices. These may be boiled in a little 
of the soup, and put into the tureen before sending it to table. 

Soup a la Julienne, or Vegetable.— Cut various kinds of 
vegetables in pieces, celery, carrots, turnips, onions, etc., and 
having put two ounces of butter in a stew-pan, put the vege- 
tables on the top of the butter, together with any others that 
may be in season. Stew or fry them over a slow fire, keeping 
them stirred, and adding a little of the stock occasionally ; soak 
small pieces of crust of bread in the remainder of the broth or 
stock, and when the vegetables are nearly stewed, add them, 
and warm the whole up together. 

Chicken SouF.—Tiyne, four hours.— Boil a pair of chickens 
with great care, skimming constantly, and keeping them cov- 
ered with water. When tender, take out the chicken and re- 
move every bone from the meat; put a large lump of butter 
into a frying-pan, and dredge the chicken meat well with 
flour; lay in the hot pan; fry a nice brown, and keep it hot 
and dry. Take a pint of the chicken water, and stir in two 
largo spoonfuls of curry powder, two of butter, and one of 



8 HOW TO COOK. 

flour, one teaspoon ful of salt and a little cayenne; stir until 
smooth, then mix it with the broth in the pot; when well mix- 
ed, simmer five minutes, then add the browned chicken. Serve 
with rice. 

Macaroni Soup.— Tnng, three-quarters of an 7io?(r.— The 
macaroni must be boiled in water for ten minutes, strained and 
put into boiling stock, in the proportion of half a pound to the 
gallon: simmer slowly for half an hour, and serve very hot, 
with grated cheese on a separate dish. 

Clam Chowder. — Twenty-five clams chopped fine, six pota- 
toes, chopped fine, two onions chopped fine, a piece of sait 
pork, also chopped, and butter about the size of an egg; salt 
and pepper to taste; the clam juice and one pint of milk and 
the same of water; six crackers rolled, one nutmeg grated, 
teaspoonful celery-seed. Boil these slowly for at least four 
hours, adding water if it becomes too thick; half an hour be- 
fore serving add coffee cupful of tomato catsup and two table- 
spoonfuls of Worcestershire sauce. When ready for table add 
tumbler of sherry ; cut a lemon in slices and serve with it. 

Beef Broth.— Take a leg of beef, cut it in pieces; put it in- 
to a gallon of water; skim it; put in two or three blades of 
mace, some parsley, and a crust of bread; boil it till the beef 
and sinews ax-e tender. Toast bread and cut into dice; put it 
in a dish ; lay in the beef, and pour on the broth. 

Kjdney 8oup.— Ttwie, six hours.-— Add to the liquor from a 
boiled leg of mutton a bullock's kidney, put it over the fire, 
and vyhen half done, take out the kidney, and cut it into pieces 
the size of dice. Add three sticks of celery, three or four 
turnips, aud the same of carrots, all cut small, and a bunch of 
sweet herbs, tied together. Season to your taste with pepper 
and salt. Let it boil slowly for five or six hours, adding the 
catsup. When done, take out the herbs, and serve the vege- 
tables in the soup. It is always better (as all soups are) made 
the day before it is wanted. 

Oyster Soup.— Take 2 quarts of oysters and drain them 
with a fork from their liquor; wash them in one water to free 
them from grit; nut in small pieces 2 slices of lean bacon, 
strain the oyster liquor and put in it the bacon, oysters, some 
parsley, thyme, and onions tied in a bunch as thick as the 
thumb, season with pepper and salt, if necessary; let it boil 
slowly, and when almost done, add a lump of butter as large 
as a hen's egg, rolled in flour, and a gill of good cream. It will 
take from 20 to SO minutes to cook it. 

Clam Soup. — Time, one hour. — 25 clams, opened, raw and 
chopped fine; add 3 quarts of water; boil tliein one half hour, 
then add a pint of milk, 1 onion chopped fine, thicken with but- 
ter and flour; beat 3 eggs in the tureen and pour your broth 
over them boiling hot. 



HOW TO COOK. 
ROAST MEATS, 



Roast Beef. — The sirloin or rib is considered the best piece 
for roasting. After selecting the piece to roast, place it in the 
dripping-pan, with some salt and water; put it in the oven, 
which should be kept good and hot; baste it now and then 
with the drippings from the meat. A piece of 8 pounds will 
take from lj4 to 2 hours to roast. When almost done, sprinkle 
the meat with salt. 

Roast Venison. — A haunch of buck will take 3)^ or 3^ 
hours roasting; doe, only S}£ hours. Venison should be rather 
under than overdone. 

Spread a sheet of white paper with butter, and put it over 
the fat, first sprinkling it with a little salt; then lay a coarse 
paste on strong paper, and cover the haunch ; tie it with fine 
pack-thread, and set it at a distance from the fire, which must 
be a good one. Baste it; often; ten minutes before serving, take 
off the paste, draw the meat nearer the fire, and baste it with 
butter and a good deal of flour, to make it froth up well. 

Gravy for it should be put into a boat, and not into the dish, 
(unless the venison has none), and made thus: Cut off the fat 
from two^or three pounds of a loin of old mutton, and set it in 
steaks on a gridiron for a few minutes, just to brown one side; 
put them into a sauce-pan with a quart of water, cover close 
for an hour, and simmer it gently; then uncover it, and stew 
till the gravy is reduced to a pint. Season v/ith only salt. 

Currant-jelly sauce must be served in a boat. 

To Roast Pork. — Pork requires a longer time in roasting 
than any of the preceding meats. When stuffing is to be usQd, 
it must be composed of chopped sage and onion, pepper and 
salt. The pieces should be neatly and well scored in regular 
stripes on the outer skin, to enable the carv^er to cut slices 
easily. Before putting to the fire, rub the skin with salad oil, 
to prevent its blistering, and baste verj' frequently. The bast- 
ing may be done by rubbing it with a piece of butter in a mus- 
lin bag, when there is not enough of dripping. The gravy for 
pork mav be the same as for other joints, hot water and salt 
poured over it on the dish. It is considered an improvement 
to have apple-sauce served in a small tureen, as it assists in 
overcoming the richness or lusciousness of the meat, and im- 
parts a slight acidulous flavor. 

Roast Shoulder of Mutton.— 3 t?ne, a quartet' of an hour 
to each pound. — Take out the bone and fill the space with a 
stuffing made of bread crumbs, salt pork chopped fine, pepper, 
salt and sage, or sweet marjoram. 

Stuffed Leg of Mutton. — Boil two large white onions un- 
til tender, then chop fine; add breadcrumbs and sage to taste, 
a little salt and pepper; then slit the sinewy part of the leg and 
insert the stuffing, and roast. 



10 BOW TO COOIt. 

To Roast Veal.— The best parts of veal for roasting are the 
fillet, the breast, the loin, and the shoulder. The fiUet and the 
breast should be stuffed, particularly the fillet; the stuffing to be 
composed of crumbs of bread, chopped suet and parsley, a Little 
lemon peel, and pepper and salt, wet with an egg and a little 
milk. The piece should have a slow fire at first, and will require 
longer time to dress than beef or mutton. Let it be well l?asted 
with butter when there is not sufficient dripping from the joint. 
The gravj'- for roast veal is either the usual not water and salt, 
or thin melted butter, poured over the meat. 

To Bake Ham. — Time, four hours. — Take a medium-sized 
ham and place it to soak for ten or twelve hours. Then cut 
away the rusty part from underneath, wipe it dry, and cover it 
I'ather thickly over with a paste of flour and water. Put it 
into an earthen dish, and set it in a moderately-heated oven 
for four hours. When done, take off the crust cai'efully and 
peel off the skin ; put a frill of cut paper around the knuckle, 
and raspings of bread over the fat of the ham, or se^'ve it glaz- 
ed and garnished vvith cut vegetables. 

Pig's Head Baked.— Let it be divided and thoroughly clean- 
ed; take out the brains, trim the snout and ears, bake it an 
hour and a halt, wash the brains thoroughly; blanch them, 
beat them up with an egg, pepper and salt, and some finely- 
chopped or pounded sage, and a small piece of butter; fry or 
brown them before the fire; serve with the head. 

Beef Heart. — Let it be thoroughly well boiled, and the 
skin removed. Wipe it dry with a clean cloth, stuff it with 
veal stuffing; roast two houi-s and a quartei-. Make a brown 
gr^vy, as for hare; and serve with the gravy and currant 
jelly. 

The tnost pleasant way to the palate of dressing this dish, is 
to roast the heart rather less than two hours; let it get cold, 
cut it in pieces and jug it the same as hare. 



STE^A^ED MEATS, 

Stewed Shin of Beef.— Saw the bone into three or four 
pieces, put them into a stew-pan, and just cover them with 
cold water. When the pot simmers, skim it clean, and then 
add the sweet hei-bs, one large onion, celery, twelve black pep- 
percorns, and twelve allspice. Stew it very gently over a slow 
fire till the meat is tender. Then peel the carrots and turnips, 
and cut them into shapes; boil them with twelve small button 
onions till tender. The turnips and onions will take a quarter 
of an hour to boil, the carrots half an hour. Drain them care- 
fully. 

Beef Stewed With Onions.— Cut 2 pounds of tender beef 
into small pieces, and season with pepper and salt; slice one or 
two onions and add to it, with water enough to make a gravy. 



HOW TO COOK. 11 

Xefc it stew slowly till the beef is thoroughly cooked; then add 
: some pieces of butter rolled in flour, enough to make a rich 
gravy. Cold beef may be cooked in the same way, but the 
'onions must then be cooked before adding them to the meat. 
Add more boiling water if it dries too fast. 

An English Stew of Cold Roast B'eev. —Time, fifteen 
minutes. — Cut the meat in small and rather thin slices, sea- 
son them highly with salt and pepper, and dip each lightly 
in bread-crumbs moistened in gravy or melted butter. DresS 
them neatly on a dish, and lay over them a thin layer of 
cut pickles, and moisten the whole with a glassful of pickled 
vinegar and the preserved gravy of the roast beef: heat in 
a Dutch oven, and garnish with fried sippets or potato balls. 

Loin of Mutton Stewed. —Remove the skin, bone it, and 
then roll it; put it in a stewpan with a pint and a half of 
water, 2 dessert-spoonfuls of pyroligneous acid, a piece of but- 
ter, sweet herbs, and an onion or two; when it has stewed 
nearly four hours, strain the gravy, add 2 spoonfuls of red 
wine, heat up and serve with jelly sauce. 

Irish Stew. — Time, two hours cmd a half. — Put 2 pounds of 
mutton cutlets or chops, and 4 pounds good potatoes, peeled 
and sliced, in alternate layers in a large saucepan or stewpan, 
season to taste with pepper and salt, and a finely -shred onion; 
add a pint of cold water, and simmer gently for two hours. 
Serve very hot. 

To Boil a Ham.— Well soak the ham in a large quantity of 
water for twenty-four hours; then trim and scrape it very 
clean, put it into a large stewpan with more than sufficient 
water to cover it; put in a blade of mace, a few cloves, a spi'ig 
of thyme and two bay leaves. Boil it for four or five hours, 
according to its weight; and when done, let it become cold in 
the liquor in which it was boiled. Then remove the rind care- 
fully without injuring the fat; press a cloth over it to absorb 
as much of the grease as possible, and shake some bread-rasp- 
ings over the far, or brush it thickly over with glaze. Serve 
it cold, garnished with parsley, or aspic jelly in. the dish. 
Ornament the knuckle with a paper frill and vegetable 
flowexs. 

Boiled Bullock's Head.— 2i)/ie to boil, five hours.— This is 
a good dish for a large family. Place the head in salt water 
for six hours, to cleanse it; then wash and remove the palates, 
and place them asrain in salt and water; put the head in a 
saucepan, with sufficient water to cover; boil for five hours, 
adding 2 carrots, 2 turnips, and 2 onions, cut small; when done 
remove the head from the soup, and remove the bone from the 
meat; serve soup and meat in tureen; the palates, when white, 
boiled until tender, then pressed until cold, m^ke a delicious 
relish for lunch or supper. 

Pig's Head Boiled.— This is a more profitable dish, though 
pot so plearsaixd to the palate, It should first be salted, whiqli 



12 HOW TO COOK. 

is usually done by the pork butcher. It should be boiled 
1 1-4 hours; it must be boiled gently, or the meat will be hard. 

Potted Veal. — This may be potted as beef, or thus: Pound 
cold veal in a mortar, work up with it in a powder, mace, pep- 
per and salt; shred the leanest part of tongue very finely, or 
ham is sometimes used ; place in a jar or pot a layer of the 
pounded veal, and upon that a layer of tbe tongue, and con- 
tinue alternately until the pot is full, seeing that every layer 
is well pressed down; pour over the top melred clarified butter. 
If it is desired, and which is frequently done, to marble the 
veal, cut the tongue or bam in square dice instead of shredding 
it; but care must be taken that they do not touch each other or 
the effect is destroj^ ed. 

To Boil a Leg of Mutton.— A leg of mutton should be kept 
four or five days before boiling. Before putting it into the pot, 
bend around the shank, cutting the tendon at the joint if nec- 
essary, so as to shorten the leg. Two hours of slow, equal 
boiling will be sufficient for a good-sized leg of mutton. Some 
persons, to make the leg look white and tasteful, wrap it tight- 
ly in a cloth in boibng ; but this spoils the liquor for broth. It 
is not safe to boil vegetables with a leg of mutton, as they are 
apt to flavor the meat. Dish the leg with a little of the liquor, 
placing the lower side uppermost, convenient for carving. 
A good leg of nmttou will yield sufficient grav3\ 

To Boil Beef. — Reckon the time from the water coming to 
a boil. Keep the pot boiling, but let it boil very sloivly. If you 
let the pot cease boiling, you will be deceived in j'our time; 
therefore watch that it does not stop, and keep up a good fire. 
Just before the pot boils the scum rises. Be sure to skim it off 
carefully, or it- will fall back and adhere to the meat. 

Beef A-La-Mode. — Remove the bone from a round, or any 
piece of beef that will stew ^ell. Make a stuffing of bi-ead 
crumbs seasoned with sweet marjoram, pepper, mace, nutmeg, 
and onions, or shalots chopped fine. Mix this together with 
two eggs well beaten, and add, if j'ou like, some chopped salt 
pork. Fill the place from which the bone was taken with this 
seasoning, rubbing what is left over the outside of the meat. 
Bind, and skewer it well, to secure this stuffing. You may 
.stick whole cloves into the meat here and there, or lard it 
with fat pork. Cover the bottom of your stewpan with slices 
of the ham, or salt pork, and having put in the meat, lay slices 
of the ham or pork over it. Pour in about a pint of water; 
cover the pan closely, and bake in an oven six, seven, or eight 
hours, aecoi-ding to the size of tiie piece. Add, if j'ou like, a 
tea-cupful of port wine, and the same of mushroom catsup 
to the gravy; but it is very good without wine. This dish 
is best cold. 

Calves' Tongues.— Wash them well, and put them in hot 
water for a short time, in order to take off the hard skin; lard 
them here e^nd there with large pieces of bacon ; put them in a 



HOW TO COOK. 13 

saucepan, so as to yield a little gravy, with two or three large 
onions and carrots. When the whole is well glazed, add some 
water, salt, a clove, and a sprig of thyme, and let it simmer 
very slowly for five hours. Just before serving, skim the 
sauce, and thicken it with some flour; open each tongue in 
half, so that it forms a heart shape, and pour the sauce over, 
adding to it either some pickled gherkins, sliced, or some mush- 
rooms. 

To Stew Kidneys.— Cut the kidneys into slices, wash them 
and dry them with a clean cloth, dust them with flour, and fry 
them with butter until they are brown. Pour some hot water 
or beef gravy into the pan, a few minced onions, pepper and 
salt, according to taste, and add a spoonful or two of mush- 
room catsup before dishing. Minced herbs are considered an 
improvement to many tastes; cook slowly ten or fifteen min- 
utes. 

o 

BROILED AND FRIED MEATS. 

Steaks — Broiled. — They should not be cut more than 
three quarters of an inch thick, or they will not be done well 
througn. Let the gridiron be perfectly clean, and heat and 
grease it before laying on the meat. Set it over a bed of clear 
bright coals, and when done on one side turn the steaks with 
tongs made for the pui'pose, or a knife and fork. In a quarter 
of an hour they will be well done; or if you like them rare, ten 
or twelve minutes will be sufficient. Pour off into a dish and 
save all the gravy that accumulates while boiling; and when 
done lay the steaks in a dish, and season to your taste with 
pepper," salt, and butter. Serve hot. 

To Fry Beef-Steaks.— Cut the steaks as for broiling, and 
on being put into the pan, shift and turn them frequently. Let 
them be done brown all over, and placed in a hot dish when 
finished. G-ravy maj^ be made by pouring a little hot water 
into the pan after the steaks are out and the fat poured away, 
with a little pepper, salt, catsup, and flour. The gravy so 
formed is to be poured into the dish with the steaks. Serve to 
table immediately. 

To Fry Pork Chops.— Pork chops should be cut rather 
thin, and be thoroughly dressed. Thev may be either simply 
fried in the same manner as chops, or fried after being dipped 
in egg, and sprinkled with crumbs of bread, and sage and 
onion finely chopped. No gravy is expected with pork chops. 
If any sauce be used, it must be apple sauce. 

To Fry Pork Sausages.— All sausages are fried alike, and 
require to be dressed very slowly. Before being put into the 
pan, they should be pricked in several places with a fine fork, to 
prevent their bursting by the expansion of the air within. 

It is common in England to bring fried sausages to table 
neatly laid out on a flat dish of mashed potatoes. The sausages 
and potatoes are helped together. They may also be laid in 



HOW TO COOK. 

links on toasted bread, and garnished with poached eggs' around 
the dish. 

Fried sausages are sometimes used for garnishing roast tur- 
key. 

To Fry Lamb Steaks. — Dip each piece into well-beaten egg, 
cover with bread crumbs or corn meal, and fry in butter or 
new lard. Serve with mashed potatoes and boiled rice. Thick- 
en the gravy with flour and butter, adding a little lemon juice, 
and pour it hot upon the steaks, and place the rice in spoonfuls 
around the dish to garnish it. 

Calf's Liver and Bacon. — Soak two or three livers in cold 
water for half an hour, then dry it in a cloth, and cut it into 
thin, narrow slices; take about a pound of bacon, or as much 
as you may require, and cut an equal number of thin slices as 
you have of liver; fry the bacon lightly, take it out and keep 
it hot; then fry the liver in the same pan. seasoning it with 
pepper and salt, and dredge over It a little floui*. "When it is 
a nice brown, arrange it around the dish with a roll of bacon 
between each slice. Pour off the fat from the pan, put in about 
two ounces of butter well rubbed in flour to thicken the gravy; 
squeeze in the juice of a lemon and add a cupful of hot water; 
boil it and pour it into the center of the dish. Serve it gar- 
nished with forcemeat balls or slices of lemon. 

Veal Cutlets. — lime, tivelve to fifteen mimites. — Let the 
cutlet be about half an inch thick, and cut it into pieces the 
size and shape of a crown piece. Chop some sweet herbs very 
fine; mix them well with the bread crumbs. Brush the cutlets 
over with the yolk of an egg, then cover them with the bread 
crumbs and chopped herbs; frj^ them lightly in butter, turn- 
injr them when required. • Take them out when done. 

Mix about an ounce of fresh butter with the grated peel of 
half a lemon, a little nutmeg, and flour; pour a little water 
into the frying-pan, and stir the butter, flour, and grated 
lemon peel into it; then put the cutlets into this gravy to heat. 
Serve them piled in the center of the dish with thin rolls of 
bacon as a garnish. 

Veal Cutlets with Fine Herbs.— Melt a piece of butter 
in the frying-pan; put in the cutlets with salt, pepper, and 
some spice; move them about in the butter for five minutes; 
have ready some mixed herbs and mushrooms chopped finely; 
sprinkle half over one side of the cutlets, and, when fried 
enough, turn and sprinkle them with the other half; finish fry- 
ing, and add the juice of a lemon ; set them around the dish 
with the seasoning in the center. 

Pork Chops.— Cut the chops about half an inch thick, and 
trim them neatly; put a frying-pan on the fire, with a bit of 
butter; as soon as it is hot, put in your chops, turning them 
often till brown all over; a few minutes before they are done, 
season with powdered sage, pepper and salt. 

Ham and Eggs.— Chop finely some cold boiled ham, fat 
^pd J©»n together, say a pound to fovjr pgfs; put f, piece of 



HOW TO COOK. ■ 15 

butter in the "pan, then the ham ; let it get well warmed 
through, then beat the eggs light ; stir them in briskly. 

Potted Ox-Tongue.— Cut about a pound and a half from 
an unsmoked boiled tongue; remove the rind. Pound it in a 
mortar as fine as possible with six ounces butter and a small 
spoonful each of mace, nutmeg, and cloves beaten fine. When 
perfectly pounded, and the spice well blended with the meat, 
press it into small potting-pans and pour clarified butter over 
the top. A little roast veal added to the potted tongue is an 
improvement. 

Tripe. — Must be washed in warm water,and cut into squares 
of three inches; take one egg, three tablespoonfuls of flour, a 
little salt, and make a thick batter by adding milk; fry out 
some slices of pork, dip the tripe into the batter, and fry a 
light brown. 

Beef Steak Smothered with Onions.— Cut up six onions 
very fine; put them in a saucepan with two cuj^fulsof hot 
water, about two ounces of good butter, some pepper and 
salt; dredge in flour. Let it stew until the onions are quite 
soft, tlien have the steak broiled, put into the saucepan with 
the onions ; then simmer about ten minutes, and send to the 
table very hot. 



MEAT PIES. 

Beefsteak Pie. — A good common paste for meat pies, and 
which is intended to be eaten, is made as follows: Three ounces 
of butter and one pound of flour will be sufficient for one dish. 
Rub the butter well among the flour, so as to incorporate them 
thoroughly. If the butler be fresh, add a little salt. Mix up 
the flour and butter with as much cold water as will make a 
thick paste. Knead it quiclcly on a board, and roll it out flat 
with a rolling-pin. Turn the dish upside down upon the flat- 
tened paste, and cut or shape out the piece required for tha 
cover. Roll out the parings, and cut them into strips. Wet 
the edges of the dish, and place these strips neatly around on 
the edgeg, as a foundation for the cover. Then take some slices 
of tender beef, mixed with fat; those from the rump are the 
best. Season them with pepper and salt,, and roll each slice up 
in a small bundle, or lay them flat in the dish. Put in a little 
gravy or cold water, and a little flour for thickening. Then, 
after putting in the meat, lay the cover on the dish, pressing 
down the edges closely to keep all tight. If any paste remains, 
cut or stamp it into ornaments, such as leaves, and place these 
as a decoration on the cover. 

Mutton Pie. — Strip the meat from the bones of a loin of 
mutton without dividing it, and cut it into nice, thin slices, 
and season them with pepper and salt; put a pie-crust around 
the edge of a pie-dish, place in it a layer of mutton, then one 
of forcemeat, and again the slices of mutton, with.three or four 



IC HOW TO COOK. 

halves of kidneys, at equal distances; then pour in a gravy 
made from tlie bones, seasoned and well cleared from fat. 
Moisten the edge with water. Cover with a paste half an inch 
thick ; press it around with your thumbs, make a hole in the 
center, and cut the edges close to the dish; ornament the top 
and border according to your own taste, and bake it. 

Cheshire Pork Pie. — Take the skin and fat from a loin of 
pork, and cut it into thin steaks; season them with pepper, 
salt, and nutmeg; line a pie-dish with puff paste, put in a layer 
of pork, then of pippins, pared and cored, and about two 
ounces of sugar; then place in another layer of pork, and half 
a pint of white wine, and lay some butter on the top; cover it 
over with puff-paste, pass a"^knife through the top to leave an 
opening, cut the paste even with the dish, egg it once, and 
bake it. 

Veal Pie. — Take about two pounds of veal from the loin, 
fillet, or any odd pieces you may have. Parboil enough to 
clear it of the scum. If it is to be done in a pot, make a very 
light paste according to directions for such purposes; roll it 
out rather thick; and having your pot well greased, lay it 
around the sides, cutting out pieces to prevent thick folds, as the 
circle diminishes. Put in a layer of meat, with salt and pep- 
per. Enrich with butter, or slices of salt pork, and dredge in 
a little flour. So proceed until you have put all in. Cover 
with paste, and cut a hole in the top for the escape of the 
steam". Pour in a portion of the water in which the meat was 
boiled. Set it over a slow fire; watch that it does not burn; 
and if it get too dry, add more of the same water, through the 
hole in the top. li you wish the crust brown, cover the top 
with a heater or bake-pan cover. It will be done in an hour 
and a half. 

If the pie is baked, make a richer crust, in the proportion of 
a pound of butter to two pounds of flour; put it in a pan, in 
the same manner as above; notch the edges of the paste hand- 
somely, and bake about the same time. 



HASH. 

Hash.— Take cold pieces of beef that have been left over, 
and chop them fine ; then add cold boiled potatoes chopped fine ; 
add pepper and salt and a little warm water; put all in a fry- 
ing-pan and cook slowly for twenty minutes. 

Mutton Hashed. — Cut the remains of a cold leg or shoulder 
of nmtton into thin slices, whether fat or lean; flour and pep- 
per well and leave on the dish. Boil the bones, well broken 
up, with a few onions minced well, add some salt, a little 
mushroom catsup and the hashed meat; warm over a slow 
fire, but do not let it boil; then add port wine and currant jel- 
ly, or omit, as you please. If the former, it will impart a ven- 
ison flavor; if the latter method is adopted it will be plain. 



HOW TO COOK. 17 

MISCELLANEOUS MEATS. 

Bologna Sausages.— Take three pounds of lean beef, the 
same of lean pork, two pounds of fat bacon, and a pound and 
a half of beef suet; put the lean meat into a stewpan of hot 
water, and set it over the fire for half an hour, then cut it 
email, each sort by it?elf, shred the suet, and bacon or ham, 
each by itself. Season with pepper, thyme chopped fine, and 
ground mace; fill ox skins with it, tie them in lengths, and put 
them in a beef brine for ten days; then smoke them the same 
as ham or tongue. Rub ground ginger or pejjper over the 
outside after they are smoked, and keep them in a cool, dry 
place. 

Minced Veal. — Cut cold veal as fine as possible, but do not 
chop it. Put to it a very little lemon peel shred, two grates of 
nutmeg, some salt, and four or five spoonfuls of either a little 
weak broth, milk, or water; simmer these gently with the 
meat, but take care not to let it boil, and add a bit of butter 
rubbed in flour. Put sippets of thin toasted bread, cut into a 
three-cornered shape, around the dish.. 

Mint Sauce fob Roast Lamb.— Two table-spoonfuls of 
chopped green tnint;r)ne tablespoonful of pounded sugar, and 
a quarter of a pint of vinegar. Pick and wash the green mint 
very clean, chop it fine, mix the sugar and vinegar in a sauce 
tureen, put in the mint, and let it stand. 



POULTRY, GAME, ETC. 

T0R0A.ST aTubkey.— Pluck the bird carefully, and singe 
off the down with lighted paper; break the leg bone close to 
the foot and hang up the bird and draw out the strings from 
the thigh. Never cut the breast; make a slit down the back 
of the neck and take out the crop that way. then cut the neck 
bene close, and after the bird is stuffed the skin can be turned 
over the back and the crop will look full and round. Cut 
around the vent, making the opening as small as possible, and 
draw carefully, taking care that the gall-bag and the gut join- 
ing the gizzard are not broken. Open the gizzard and remove 
the contents, and detach the liver fi'om the gall-bladder. The 
liver, gizzard and heart, if used in the gravy, will need to be 
boiled an hour and a half, and chopped as fine as possible. 
Wash the turkey and wipe thoroughly dry, inside and out; 
then fill the inside with stuflSng, and either sew the skin of the 
neck over the back, or fasten it with a small skewer. Sew up 
the opening at the vent; then run a long skewer into the pin- 
ion and thigh, through the body, passing it through the oppo- 
site pinion and thigh. Put a skewer in the small part of the 
leg, close on the outside of the sidesman, and push it through. 
Pass a string over the points of the skewers, and tie it secure- 
ly at the back. 



18 HOW TO COOK. 

To Roast Partridges.— Pick, draw, singe and clean theni 
the same as fowls. Make a slit in the neck and draw out the 
craw; twist the neck around the wing and bring the head 
around to the side of the breast. The legs and wings are 
trussed the same as fowls, only the feet are left on and crossed 
over one another. Put them down to a clear fire and baste 
well with butter. When about half done, dust a little flour over 
them; let them be nicely browned. They will require to roast 
from twenty minutes to half an hour each. Serve on toasted 
bread dipped in the gravy, with gravy and bread-sauce. 

Roast Chicken. — Draw, singe, and truss the chicken and 
put it between some slices of bacon ; take care to tie up the 
legs on the spit, so that they be kept firm ; baste it with its own 
gravy; when done to a point, (i. e. half an hour), serve with 
cresses around it, seasoned with vinegar and salt. 

Stevs^ed Duck with Green Peas.— Put a deep stewpan on 
the fire with a piece of fresh butter; singe the duck; flour it, 
and put it in the stewpan to brown, turning it two or three 
times; pour out the fat, but let the duck remain in the pan; 
put to it a pint of good gravy, a pint of peas, two lettuces cut 
small, a bundle of sweet herbs, and a little pepper and salt; 
cover close, and let them stew half an hour. Give the pan a 
shake now and then. When they are just done, grate in a lit- 
tle nutmeg and a little beaten mace, and thicken it with a 
piece of butter rolled in flour; shake it all together for a few 
minutes; then take out the sweet herbs, lay the duck in a dish, 
and pour the sauce over it. Garnish with mint, chopped fine. 

Chicken Fricassee.— Half boil a chicken in a little water; 
let it cool, then cut it up, and simmer in a gravy made of some 
of the water in which it was boiled, and the neck, head, feet, 
liver, and gizzard stewed well together. Add an onion, a fag- 
got of herbs, pepper and salt, and thicken with butter rolled 
in flour added to the strained liquor with some nutmeg, then 
give it a boil, and add a pint of cream; stir over the flre, but 
do not let it boil. Put the hot chicken into a dish, pour the 
sauce over it, add some fried forcemxeat balls, and garnish with 
slices of lemon. 

Chicken Jelly.— Boil a pair of chickens until you can pull 
the meat from the bones; remove all the meat and allow the 
bones to boil about half an hour longer; stand this in a cool 
place and it will become jellied; the next day cut the meat 
into small pieces, melt the jelly, and throw it in; then add 
two tablespoonfuls of Worcestershire sauce, two of walnut 
sauce, one tablespoonful of salt, a pinch of powdered mace, 
cloves and allspice, slice ten hard-boiled eggs and two lemons; 
line a large bowl or form with these slices, then pour in the 
mixture and let it stand in a cool place, but not to freeze. The 
■water should just cover the chickens when put to boil. This is 
a very ornamental dish, and keeps for a long time. 

Stuffing for Turkey.— Mix thoroughly a quart of stale 
bread, (very finely grated), the grated rind of a lemon, quar- 



, ROW TO COOK. 19 

ter of an ounce of minced parsley and thyme (one part thyme, 
two parts parsley), and pepper and salb to season. Add to 
these one unbeaten egg and half a cup of butter; mix all well 
together, and moisten with hot water or milk. Other herbs 
than parsley or thyme may be used, if preferred, and a little 
onion, finely minced, added if desired. 

Sage and Onion Stuffing, for Geese, Ducks, or Pork.— 
Wash, peel and boil three onions in two waters, to extract the 
strong flavor, and scald eight sage leaves for a few minutes. 
Chop the onions and leaves very fine, mix them with five 
ounces of bread crumbs, seasoned with pepper and salt, a piece 
of butter broken into pieces, and the yolk of one egg. 

ToROAST Wild Fowl.— The flavor is best preserved with- 
out stuffing. Put pepper, salt and a piece of butter into each. 
Wild fowl require much less dressing than tame. A I'ich, 
brown gravy should be sent in the dish; and when the breast 
is cut into slices, before taking off the bone, a squeeze of lemon, 
with pepper and salt, is a great improvement to the flavoi". 
To take off the fishy taste which wild fowl sometimes have, 
put an onion, salt and hot water into the dripping-pan and 
baste them for the first ten minutes with this ; then take away 
the pan and baste constantly with butter. 

Prairie Chickens. —Skin the chickens, which makes them 
sweeter; cut them open on the back and througii the breast. 
Fry them in butter, with salt and-pepper to the taste. Cook 
them to a nice brown. 

Chicken Croquettes. — One large chicken, two sweet- 
breads, wine-glass of cream, one loaf baker's stale bread. 
Cook chicken and sweet-bread separate!}'', saving the chicken 
broth. Cliop chicken, meat, and sweet-bread finely together, 
season with pepper, salt, parsley, and half a teaspoonful grated 
onion. Rub the bread into crumbs until you have equal quan- 
tities of crumbs and meat. Place over the fire as much of the 
chicken broth as will moisten well the crumbs, into which stir 
the cream, and butter size of an egg. When it boils, stir in the 
crumbs until they adhere to the spoon. Add meat, and, when 
cold, two well-beaten eggs. Mold into roll?, with your hands, 
roll them in crumbs, and fry in hot lard, like doughnuts. 

To Roast Ducks.— Pick, draw, and singe them. Cutoff the 
head, and dip the feet in boiling water, to remove the yel- 
low skin; truss them plump, turning the feet flat upon the 
back. Stuff the same as goose, and serve with gravy and ap- 
ple sauce. An hour will roast a duck. Green peas usually 
accompany roast duck. 

To Boil a Turkey.— A boiled turkey is a most delicate 
and excellent dish, and requires to be dressed with extreme 
care. Clean the turkey from feathers and stumps, and singe 
off the hairs, taking care not to blacken the skin. Draw, 
and wipe it inside with a clean, dry cloth; cut off the legs 
at the first joint; dr^w out the sinews; then pull 4own the 



20 HOW TO COOK. 

skin and push the legs inside; cut the head off close to the 
bed}', leaving the skin long, and draw out the craw. Make 
a good veal-stufflng, and put it into the breast, leaving suffi- 
cient room for the stuffing to swell; then draw the skiu of 
the breast over the opening, and sew it neatly across the 
back, so that when the turkoy is brought to table no sew- 
ing will appear. Place the gizzard in one wing, and the 
liver in the other; turn the wings on the back, and fasten 
them to the sides. 

Game Pie. — Time, to bake, about two hours. — "Raise "a 
crust to a size corresponding wicli the quantity of your game. 
Cut with a sharp knife the flesh from the best parts; keep each 
kind separate, and set them aside for a moment. Then split 
the heads, break the bones, and put them with the inferior 
parts into a stewpan, with a roasted onion, a carrot, a tea* 
spoonful of salt, twenty black peppercorns, sprigs of winter 
savory, marjoram, lemon, and common thj'nie, two bay 
leaves, half a clove of gai-lic, and half a pound of gravy beef. 
Stew in a very little water (according to the quantity of the 
meat) five hours. When done, skim and strain and set it aside 
to cool. Line the whole of 3^our raised crust with a thin layer 
of short paste, then a la3'er of fat bacon or ham cut in thin 
slices. Now put in j^our different kinds of game \\\ layers, not 
round, but from the bottom, filling up the corners and crevices 
with forcemeat stufiing. Having mixed together two teaspoon- 
fuls of cayenne, and half a graced nutmeg, sprinkle a little of 
them over each layer. Finish the filling with a layer of ham 
or bacon; put over it a layer of the short paste; then cover 
with the raised crust. Pinch around the sides, ornament by 
crimping leaves set according to fancy, and bake in a moder- 
ate oven an hour, an hour and a half, or two hours, according 
to size. When both pivi and gravy are nearly cold, put the 
point of a funnel into the small hole, (which, by the way, you 
must make in the top of the pie before you bake it), and gently 
pour through it the gravy you prepared. 

To Stew Rabbits.— Wash the rabbits well; cut them in 
pieces, and put them in to scald for a few minutes. Melt a 
piece of butter, in which fry or brown the rabbits for a short 
time. When slightly browned, dust in some flour; then add 
as much gravy or hot water as will make sufficient soup. Put 
in onions, catsup, pepper and salt, according to taste. Stew 
for an hour slowly. 



FISH. 



Broiled Salmon.— Tijjte, ten to fifteen minutes.— Cnt slices 
of an inch, or an inch and a half thick from the middle of a 
large salmon; dust a little Cayenne pepper over them; wrap 
them in oiled or buttered paper, and broil them over a clear 



now TO COOK. 21 

fire, first rubbing the bars of the gridiron with suet. Broiled 
salmon is extremely rich, and really requires no sauce. The 
slices may also be simply dried in a cloth, floured, and broiled 
over a clear fire; but tiiey require the greatest care then to 
prevent them from burning. The gridiron is always rubbed 
with suet first. 

To Pickle Salmon.— Remove the bone from a boiled sal- 
mon, or part of one that has been boiled, and lay it in a dish; 
boil a sufficient quantity of the liquor the fish was boiled in, 
with the same quantity of vinegar; one ounce of black pepper, 
one ounce of allspice, four bay leaves, and some salt. When 
cold, pour it over the fish; and in twelve or fourteen hours it 
will be fit for use. 

Salmon — To Boil. — This fish cannot be too soon cooked af- 
ter being caught; it should be put into a kettle with plenty of 
cold water and a handful of salt — the addition of a small quan- 
tity of vinegar will add to the firmness of the fish — let it boil 
gently; if four pounds of salmon, fifty miimtes will suffice; if 
thick, a few minutes more may be allowed. 

The best criterion for ascertaining whether it be done, is to 
pass a knife between the bone and the fish — if it separates 
readily, it is done; this should be tried in the thickest part; 
when cooked, lay it on the fi-;h-strainer transversely across the 
kettle, so that the fish, while draining, may be kept hot. Place 
a fish-plate upon the dish on which tbe salmon is to be served, 
fold a clean vt hite napkin, lay it upon the fish-plate, and place 
the salmon upon the napkin. Garnish with parsley. 

Broiled Mackerel. — Prepare by boiling a short time a lit- 
tle fennel, parsley and mint; when done take it from the 
fire and chop all together fine, mix a piece of butter with 
it, a dust of flour, pepper and salt; cut your fish down the back 
and fill it with this stuffing: oil your gridiron and oil j^our fish; 
broil then over a clear slow fire. 

To Cook Shad-roes.— First, partially boil them in a small 
covered pan, and then fry in hot lard, atter covering or sprink- 
ling with flour. 

Fried Eels. — Time, eighteen or twenty mmii^es— Prepare 
and wash the eels, wipe them thoroughly dry, and dredge over 
them a very little flour; if large, cutthem into pieces of about 
four inches long, brush them over with egg, dip them in bread 
crumbs, and fry them in hot fat. If small, they should be 
curled around, and fried, being flrst dipped into egg and bread 
crumbs. Serve them up garnished with fried parsley. 

To Bake a Shad, P„ock-fish or Bass.— Clean the fish care- 
fully, sprinkle it lightly with salt, and let it lie a few minutes; 
then wash it, season it slightly with Cayenne pepper and salt, 
and fry it gently a light brown. Prepare a seasoning of bread- 
crumbs, pounded cloves, parsle}^, Cayenne pepper and salt; 
strew it over and in the fish ; let it stand an tiour. Put it in a 
deep dish, and set it in the oven to bake; to a large fish, put in 
the dish, the juice of a lemon made thick with loaf sugar, one-" 



22 HOW TO COOK. 

half teacupf 111 of tomato catsup ; to a small one, allow in pro- 
portion the same ingredients; baste frequently and garnish 
with sliced lemon. 

Fresh Halibut Fish-balls.— To two pounds of boiled hali- 
but add double the quantity of hot mashed potatoes; the fish 
must be picked in small pieces; add butter the size of an egg, a 
teaspoonful of powdered sugar, salt, and two eggs; mix them 
well, make them into round flat balls, and when the weather 
is cold they can stand over night, but in summer they must be 
made in the morning. Have a kettle of boiling-hot lard, put 
in only a few at a time, and boil them untiljthey are a nice light 
brown. If the lard is not quite boiling, they will soak the fat, 
and if too hot, they will come out black. 

Halibut. — Stewed. — Put into a stewpan half 'a pint of fish 
broth, a tablespoonful of vinegar, and one of mushroom 
catsup, two good-sized onions cut in quarters, a bunch of 
sweet herbs, add one clove of garlic, and a pint and a half of 
water; let it stew an hour and a quarter, strain it off clear, put 
into it the head and shoulders of a fine halibut, and stew until 
tender; thicken with butter and flour and serve. 

Sun Fish, Frost Fish, Smelts, Minnows, or other small 
fish, must be well cleaned and dried, and shaken in a floured 
cloth, and may then be fried, either with a little butter, or in 
boiling fat; or they may be first dipped in egg, and sprinkled 
with fine bread crumbs. 

They will scarcely take more than two minutes to make 
them of a nice brown color, when they are done. Let them 
be drained on a hair sieve, before the "fire, till they are pretty 
free from fat. 

To Bake a Large Fish Whole.— Cut off the head and 
split the fish down nearly to the tail; prepare a dressing of 
bread, butter, pepper and salt, moistened with a little water. 
Fill the fish with this dressing, and bind it together with fine 
cotton cord or tape; lay the fish on a grate, or a bake-pan, or a 
dripping-pan, and pour around it a little water, and melted 
butter. Baste frequently. A good-sized fish will bake in an 
hour. Serve with the gravy of the fish, drawn butter, or 
oyster sauce. 

Chdwder. — Take some thin pieces of pork and fry brown; 
cut each piece into several pieces, place them by layers in your 
pork fat, sprinkle a little pepper and salt — add cloves, mace, 
sliced onions; lay on bits of fried pork, if you choose, and 
crackers soaked in cold water; then turn on water just suffi- 
cient to cover them, and put on a heated bake-pan lid. After 
stewing about twenty minutes, take up the fish, and mix two 
tea-spoonf Ills of flour with a little water, and stir it into the 
gravy, adding a little pepper and butter, catsup, and spices 
also, if you choose. Cod and bass make the best chowder. 
Clams and black- fish are tolerably good. The har^ part of 
the clam should be cut off and rejected. 



HOW TO COOK. 3B 

OYSTERS, CLAMS, AND SHELL-FISH, 



Broiled Dysters.— Take the largest and finest oysters. See 
that your gridiron is very clean. Rub the bars with fresh but- 
ter, and set it over a clear, steady fire, entirely clear from 
smoke, or on a bed of bright, hot wood coals. Place the oys- 
ters on the gridiron, and when done on one side, take a fork 
and turn them on the other, being careful not to let them burn. 
Put some fresh butter in the bottom of a dish. Lay the oysters 
on it, and season them slightly with pepper. Send them to 
table hot. 

Scalloped Oysters. — Time, a quarter of an hour. — But- 
ter some tin scallop-shells, or, if you have not any, a small tart 
dish. Strew in a layer of grated bread, then put some thin 
slices of butter, and then oysters enough to fill your shells or 
dish. Cover them thickly with bread-crumbs, and again add 
slices of butter. Pepper the whole well, and add a little of the 
liquor kept from the oysters. Put butter over the whole sur- 
face, and bake in a quick oven. Serve them in their shells or 
in the dish. 

Brown them with a salamander. If you have not one, make 
the kitchen shovel red-hot, and hold it over closely enough to 
brown your scallops. 

Oyster Pie. — Line a deep dish with fine puff paste. Lay 
a plate of the same size over the top, to support the upper 
crust, which you must lay on and bake before the oysters 
are put in, as in the time required for cooking the paste, 
the oysters would be ovei'done. Wliile the paste is baking, 
px'epare the oysters. Take their liquor, and, having strained, 
thicken it with the yolk of egg, either boiled hard and grated 
or beaten thoroughly, and a piece of butter rolled in bread- 
crumbs. Season with mace and nutmeg. Stew the whole 
for five minutes, or till well done. Carefully remove the 
cover from the pie; take out the plate; put in the oysters, 
with their gravy; replace the cover, and send to table, hot. 
If you like the pie dryer, put in only half the liquor. You 
may make flowers of strips of the paste, and garnish the cnist. 

To Stew Oysters.— Time, ten minutes.— Mier pouring off 
the juice, put the oystere into some salt water, and pass each 
one between the thumb and finger to get rid of the slime. 
Then to 100 oysters add half a pound of butter rubbed up with 
a teaspoonf ul of flour ; stir for ten minutes or till done, then 
add a half pint of cream, but do not permit it to boil, other- 
wise the cream will curdle; add salt and Cayenne pepper to the 
taste. 

To Fry Oysters. —Make a thick batter of eggs, milk, flour, 
pepper and salt, and dip the oysters singly in the batter ; after 
which, fry them in dripping or lard in a frying-pan, being 
careful that they do not stick together. A sauce may be 



24 HOW TO COOK. 

used, composed of the hquor of the oysters, thickened with 
flour and butter, and seasoned with Cayenne pepper and a lit- 
tle catsup. 

Lobster Patties. — Time, tiventy minutes. — Roll out the 
puff paste about a quarter of an inch thick, take a hen-lobster 
already boiled, pick the meat from the tail and claws, and 
chop it fine, put it in a stewpan with a little of the inside 
spawn pounded into a mortar until quite smooth, w ith an ounce 
of butter, half spoonful of cream, the same of veal gravy, es- 
sence of anchovy, lemon juice, Cayenne pepper and salt, and a 
tablespoonful of flour and water. Let it stew five minutes, fill 
the patties, and serve. 

Clam Fitters. — Take twelve large or twenty-five small 
clams from their shells; if the clams are lai-ge divide them. 
Mix two gills of wheat flour with one gill of milk, half a9 
much of the clam liquor, and one egg well beaten. Make the 
batter smooth, and then star in the clams. Drop the batter by 
tablespoonfuls in boiling lard; let them fry gently, turning 
them when done on one side. 

To Make a Crab Pie.— Procure the crabs alive, and put 
them in boiling water, along with some salt. Boil them for a 
quarter of an hour or twenty minutes, according to the size. 
When cold, pick the meat from the claws and body. Chop all 
together, and mix it with crumbs of bread, pepper and salt, 
and a little butter. Put all this into the shell, and brown be- 
fore the fii'e. A crab shell will hold the meat of two crabs. 

Lobsters to be Cold.— Procure the lobsters alive. Hen- 
lobsters are the best, as they have spawn in and about them. 
Put them in boiling water, along with some salt, and boil 
from half an hour to three-quarters of an hour, or more, ac- 
cording to the size. When done, take them out of the water 
and wipe the shells. Before they are quite cold, rub the shells 
with a buttered cloth. Take off the large claws, and crack the 
shells carefully, so as not to bruise the meat. Split the body 
and tail lengthwise, in two pieces. This may be done with a 
knife. Place the whole of the pieces ornamentally on a dish 
and garnish with parsley. 

Soft-Shell Crabs.— Soft- shell crabs must be dipped in 
beaten egg:, and then in gi-ated bread or cracker crumbs, and 
thrown into a hot frying-pan in which salt pork has been 
fried out for the. purpose; it gives them a much better flavor 
than butter or lard. 



VEGETABLES ETC 

Green Peas.— A delicious vegetable, a grateful accessory 
to many dishes of a more substantial nature. Green peas 
should be sent to the table green ; no dish looks less tempting 



HOW TO COOK. 

than peas if they wear an autumnal aspect. Peas should also 
be young, and as short a time as possible should be allowed 
to elapse between the periods of shelling and boiling. If it is a 
matter of consequence to send them to table in perfection, 
these rules must be strictly observed. They should be as near 
of a size as a discrirainatiog eye can arrange them; they 
should then be put in a colander, and some cold water suffered 
to run through them in order to wash them ; then having the 
water in which they are to be boiled slightly salted and boiling 
rapidly, poui-j in the peas; keep the saucepan uncovered and 
keep them boiling swiftly until tender; they will take about 
twenty minutes, barely so long, unless older than they should 
be; drain completely, pour them into the tureen in which they 
are to be served, and in the center put a slice of butter, and 
when it has melted stir round the peas gentlj'', adding pepper 
and salt; serve as quickly and as hot as possible. 

Tomatoes Fried. — Do not pare them, but cut in slices as an 
apple; dip in cracker, pounded and sifted, and fry in a little 
good butter. 

Green Corn. — Time, twenty minutes. — This should be 
cooked on the same day it is gathered; it loses its sweetness in 
a few hours, and must be artificially supplied. Strip off the 
husks, pick out all the silk, and put it in boiling water; if not 
entirely fresh, add a tablespoonful of sugar to the water, but 
no salt; boil twenty minutes, fast, and serve, or you may cut 
it from the cob, put in plenty of butter and a little salt, and 
serve in a covered vegetable dish. 

Lima Beans.— Shell them into cold water; let them lie half 
an hour or longer; put them into a saucepan with plent}" of 
boiling water, a little salt, and cook till tender. Drain, and 
butter well, and pepper to taste. 

String Beans.— Break off both ends, and string carefully; 
if necessary pare both edges with a knife. Cut the beans in 
pieces an inch long, and put in cold water a few minutes. 
Drain and put them into boiling water, with a piece of bacon 
or salt pbrk. Boil quickly for half an hour, or till tender. 
Drain in a colander, and dish with plenty of butter. 

Potato Balls.— Mash boiled potatoes till they are quite 
smooth ; add a little salt, then knead them with flour to the 
thickness required; toast on the griddle, pricking them with a 
fork to prevent their bhstering. Eat them warm, with fresh 
butter; they will be found equal to crumpets, and much more 
nutritious. 

Potatoes Mashed with Onions.— Prepare some boiled 
onions by passing them through a sieve, and mix them with 
potatoes. Regulate the proportions according to taste. 

Roasted Potatoes. — Clean thoroughly; nick a small piece 
out of the skin, and roast in the oven of the range; a little but- 
ter is sometimes rubbed over the skin to make them crisp. 



26 HOW TO COOK. 

Boiled Potatoes.— Rather more than parboil the potatoes; 
pare off the skin, flour them and lay them on a gridiron over 
a clear fire-, seud them to table with cold fresh butter. 

Fried Potatoes.— Remove the peel from an uncooked pota- 
to. After it has been thoroughly washed, cut the potato into 
thin slices, and lay tbem in a pan with some fresh butter; fry- 
gently a clear brown, lay them cne upon the other in a small 
dish, and send to table as an enfre mets. 

To Cook Spinach.— Wash and clean the spinach thoroughly 
from grit, then boil it in salt and water; press the water en- 
tirely out of it, and chop it as fllie as powder. A quarter of 
an hour before serving, put it into a saucepan with a piece of 
butter mixed with a tablespoonful of flour and half a tumbler- 
ful of boiling water, some salt, pepper, and nutmeg, and let it 
simmer fifteen minutes. Serve with hard-boiled eggs on the 
top. 

Sweet Potatoes. — They should neither be pared nor cut; 
but select those that are nearest of k size, to cook together. 
When done, pour off the water and let them steam as other po- 
tatoes. They are sometimes half boiled, then cut in slices, and 
fried in sweet drippings, or butter. The best way to keep them 
is to bury them in dry sand. 

These are better roasted or baked than boiled. 

To Bake Them.— Wash them clean and wipe them dry; 
then place them in a quick oven. They will take from balf an 
hour to an hour, according to their size. 

To Roast Them.— Prepare them as for baking, and either 
cook them in the hot ashes of a wood fire, or in a Dutch oven. 
They take from half to three-quarters of an hour to be done. 

Young Beets Boiled.— Wash them very clean, but neither 
scrape nor cut them. Put them in boiling water, and, accord- 
ing to their size, boil them from one to two hours. Take off 
the skin when done, and put over them pepper, salt and a little 
butter. Beets are very nice baked, but require a much longer 
time to cook. 

How to Boil Cabbage.— Cut off the stalk and strip off the 
outer leaves ; quarter and wash them in plenty of water, and 
leave them to soak, top downwards, with a little salt in the 
water, for an hour or two. Put them into plenty of boiling 
water, with a good handful of salt and a bit of soda, and boil 
them till the stalk feels tender. Cabbage requires boiling from 
twenty to forty minutes, according to size. Drain through a 
colander. Greens may be pressed between two plates. 

To Dress Cauliflowers.— Having picked them into small 
pieces, which is absolutely necessary in order to remove the 
slugs with which this vegetable abounds, wash it thoroughly in 
several waters, and let it lay to soak for half an hour before 
you dress it, rut it into a saucepan of boiling water, with a 



HOW to COOK. 27 

lump of salt, and when tender it will be done; let it drain in a 
colander, and serve it up with melted butter. Some persons 
may prefer to see them brought to table whole, but they must 
then take the chance of being helped, along with the cauli- 
flower, to some unsightly insect, which would be suflScient to 
disgust the least delicate stomach; besides, if properly boiled, 
and laid carefully in the dish, the pretty appearance of the 
vegetable is by no means destroyed by its having been divided. 

Egg Plant.— Cut the egg plant in slices nair an Inch thick, 
and let it lay for several hours in salted water, to remove the 
bitter taste. To fry it put the slices in the frying-pan with a 
small quantity of butter, and turn them when one side is done. 
Be sure that they are thoroughly cooked. Stuffed egg plant is 
sometimes preferred to fried. Peel the plant whole, cut it in 
two, and let it lay in salted water. Then scoop out the in- 
side of the plant, chop it up fine, mixing crumbs of bread, salt 
and butter with it; fry it, return it to the hollow egg plant- 
join the cut pieces together, and let them bake awhile in an 
oven. 

Asparagus. — Cut the heads about four or five inches long; 
scrape them and throw them into cold water; tie them in bun- 
dles; put them into boiling water with plenty of salt in it; let 
them come quickly to a boil— they will take from a quarter of 
an hour to twenty minutes. When tpuder take them up with 
a slice; drain them well; remove the string, and lay the aspar- 
agus in a dish, heads inwards, on slices of toast pi"eviously 
dipped in the liquor. Serve with melted butter. Sea kale is 
dressed in the same manner". 

French or Scarlet Beans.— Cut off the two ends and 
string them, then split and cut them in two, throw them into 
a pan of clean water, and put them into plenty of boiling 
water with salt and a little soda. When they are soft, which 
will be in about a quarter of an hour or twenty minutes, 
strain them through a sieve, and serve them with melted but- 
ter in a boat. 

Winter Squash. —Cut it m pieces, take out the seeds and 

Bare as thin as possible; steam or boil until soft and tender, 
'rain and press well, then mash with butter, pepper, salt and 
a very little sugar. Summer squash may be cooked the same 
way ; if extremely tender they need not be pared. 

Succotash.— Time one hour and a half.— Cut off the corn 
from the cobs, and put the cobs in just water enough to cover 
them, and boil one hour; then remove the cobs and put in the 
corn and a quart of Lima beans, and boil thirty minutes. 
When boUed, add some cream or milk, salt and butter. 



HOW TO COOK. 
EGGS. 



To Boil Eggs. — The boiling of eggs is a very simple opera- 
tion, but is frequently ill-performed. The following is the best 
mode: — Put the egg into a pan of hot water, just off the boil. 
When 3^ou put in the egg, lift the pan from the fire and hold it 
in your handjfor an instant or two. This will allow the air to es- 
cape from the shell, and so the egg will not be cracked in boil- 
ing. Set the pan on the fire again, and boil for three minutes 
or more, if the egg be quite fresh, or two minutes and a half, 
if the egg has been kept any time. Eggs to be used hard for 
salads and other dishes, should be put into cold water, and 
boiled for a quarter of an hour after the water comes to the 
boil. In this case, the shells should not be taken off till the 
eggs are cold. 

To Poach Eggs. — Take a shallow saucepan or frying-pan, and 
fill it about half full of water. Let the water be perfectly 
clean, not a particle of dust or dirt upon it. Put some salt in- 
to the water. Break each egg into a separate tea-cup, and slip 
it gently from the cup into the water. There is a knack in do- 
ing this without causing the egg to spread or become ragged. 
A good way consists in allowing a little water to enter the cup 
and get below the egg, which sets the egg to a certain extent, 
before it is allowed to lie freely in the water. If the water be 
about boiling point, one minute is sufficient to dress the egg, 
but the eye is the best guide; the yolk must retain its liquid 
state. 

Omelettes.— Omelettes are composed of eggs, and anything 
that the fancy may direct to flavor and enrich them. For a 
common omelette, take six eggs, and beat them w^ell with a 
fork in a basin; add a little salt. .Next take a little finely -chop- 
ped parsley, finely-chopped eschalot or onion, and two ounces 
of butter cut into small pieces, and mix all this with the egg. 
Set a frying-pan on the fire with a piece of butter in it; as soon 
as the butter is melted, pour in the omelette, and continue to 
stir it till it assumes the appearance of a firm cake. When 
dressed on one side, turn it carefully, and dress it on the other. 
It will be dressed sufficiently when it is lightly browned. Serve 
it on a dish. 

Egg Balls, (for made dishes or soup.) — Time, twenty min- 
utes to boil the eggs. — Pound the hard-boiled yolks of eight 
eggs in a mortar until very smooth; then mix with them the 
yolK of four raw eggs, a little salt, and a dust or so of flour to 
make them bind. Roll them into small balls, boil them in 
watez*, and then add them to any made dishes or soups for 
which they may be required. 



HOW TO COOK. 20 

DESSERTS. 



To Make Floating Islands.— Scald any tart apples be- 
fore they are fully ripe, pulp them through a sieve, beat the 
whites of tvs^o eggs with sugar, mix it by degrees with the pulp 
and beat all together: serve it on raspberry cream, or color it 
with currant jelly, and set it on a white cream, having given 
it the flavor of lemon, sugar and wine, or it can be put on a 
custard. 

Plain Bread Pudding.— Weigh three-quarters of a pound 
of any odd scraps of bread, either crust or crumb; cut them 
small, and pour on them a pint and a half of boiling water to 
soak them well. Let it stand until the water is cool ; then press 
it out, and mash the bread smooth with the back of a spoon. 
Add to it a teaspoonful of powdered ginger, moist sugar to 
sweeten, three-quarters of a pound of picked and cleaned cur- 
rants. Mix well, and lay in a pan well buttered; flatten it 
down '^pith a spoon, lay some pieces of butter on the top, and 
bake in a moderate oven. Serve hot. 

Hard Times Pudding.— rime, three /lortrs.- Half apint of 
molasses, half a pint of water, two teaspoonfuls of soda, one 
teaspoonful of salt; thicken with flour, sifted, to a batter, 
thick as cup cake; put mto pudding-boiler, half full, to allow 
for swelling; boil steadily for three hours; eat with or without 
sauce. 

Custard, Baked.— Boil a pint of cream with mace and cin- 
namon; when cold, take four eggs, leaving out two of the 
whites, a little rose and orange-flower water, a little white 
wine, nutmeg, and sugar to your taste; mix them well together, 
and bake them in china cups. 

Lemon Custard. — Take the yolks of ten eggs, beaten, strain 
them, and whip them with a pint of cream; boil the juice of 
two lemons, sweetened, with the rind of one ; when cold strain it 
into the cream and eggs; when it almost boils, put it into a dish, 
grate over it the rind of a lemon, and brown it with a sala- 
mander. 

Apple Dumplings. — Pare a few good-sized baking apples, 
and roll out some paste, divide it into as many pieces as you 
have apples, cut two rounds from each, and put an apple 
under each piece, and put the other over, join the edges, tie 
them in cloths, and boil them one hour. 

Apple Dumplings, Baked.— Make them as directed above; 
but instead of tying them in cloths, place them in a buttered 
dish, and bake them. 

Suet Pudding.— Three-quarters of a pint of chopped suet^. 
one pint of milk or water, one egg, beaten, one-half teaspoon- 



30 now TO COOK. 

ful salt, and enough flour to Kiake a stiff batter, but thin 
enough to pour from a spoon. Put into a bowl, cover with a 
cloth, and boil three hours. The same, made a little thinner, 
with a few raisins added, and baked in a well-greased dish ii 
excellent. 

Poor Man's Pudding. — Into two quarts of boiling water, 
stir six heaping tablespoonfuls of meal, a little salt, and a piece 
of butter the size of an egg. When nearly cold, add three 
well-beaten eggs, and eight tablespoonfuls of sugar or molasses, 
and spice to taste. 

Arrowroot Blancmange. — Mix tw^o ounces of arrowroot 
with a large cupful of milk into a smooth, thick batter; boil 
one pint of milk with three laurel leaves until suflSciently 
flavored, then strain the milk into a jug and pour it over the 
arrowroot, stirring it constantly ; add sugar to taste, and stir 
it over a clear fire until very thick ; add a tablespoonf ul of 
brandy or of noyeau, and pour it into an oiled mold. Set it in 
a cold place, or in ice, if you have it. When firm, turn it care- 
fully out on a dish, and garnish it with fruit or flowers. 

Cheap Plum Pudding. — One cup suet, one cup raisins, one 
cup currants and citron mixed, one egg, one cup sweet 
milk, half a teacup molasses, one teaspoonful soda, three and 
a half cups flour, a little salt. Boil three hours. Serve with 
hard or liquid sauce. 

Plum Pudding. — A pint of bread crumbs; pour over them 
one half pint of boiling milk and let it cool thoroughly. Then 
add one pound stoned raisins, one-half pound currants, one 
tablespoonf ul of butter minced fine, one tablespoon ful of flour, 
one tablespoonful of sugar, one small teaspoonful cloves, nut- 
meg, and cinnamon, each; five eggs, beaten light. Flour your 
fruit before mixing, and boil three hom"s. Eat with hot 
brandy sauce. 

Indian Pudding.— Scald one pound of Indian meal— that is, 
pour boiling water on it, stirring until stiff; have ready one 
pound chopped suet; stir it in, and add one pint molasses and 
one ounce ground ginger; bake in a greased tin in a slow oven; 
takes about two hours to bake. 

Old-Fashioned Boiled Indian Meal Pudding.— To one 
quart of boiling milk stir in a pint and a half of Indian meal, 
well sifted, a teaspoonful of salt, a cup of molasses, chopped 
puet, if you like; tie it up tight in a cloth, not allowing room 
for it to swell, and boil four hours. 

Mince Pies.— Take equal weights of tender roast beef, suet, 
currants, raisins, and apples which have been previously pared 
and cored, with half their weight of soft sugar, one ounce of 

[)Owdered cinnamon, an equal quantity of candied orange and 
emon-peel, and citron, a little salt, and twelve sour almonds 
blanched and grated. Chop the meat and the suet separately; 



HOW TO COOK. 51 

wash and pick the currants, stone the raisins, and chop them 
with the peel; and having minced all the ingredients very fine, 
mix them together, adding a nutmeg. 

Apple Pie. — Pare and take out the cores of the apples, cut- 
ting each apple into four or eight pieces, according to their 
size. Lay them neatly in a baking-dish, seasoning with brown 
sugar, and any spice, such as pounded cloves and cinnamon, 
or grated lemon-peel, A little quince marmalade gives a fine 
flavor to the pie. Add a little water, and cover with puff paste. 
Bake for an hour. 

Rhubarb Pie. — Take the tender stalks of the rhubarb: strip 
off the skin, and cut the stalks into thin slices. Line deep 
plates with pie crust, then put in the rhubarb, with a thick 
layer of sugar to each layer of rhubarb--^, little grated lemon 
peel improves the pie. Cover the pies with a crust, press it 
down tight upon the edge of the plate, and prick the crust 
with a fork, so that the crust will not bui-st while baking, and 
let out the juices of the pie. Rhubarb pies should be baked 
about an hour, in a slow oven. It will not do to bake them 
quick. Some cooks stew the rhubarb before making it into 
pies, but it is not so good as when used without stewing. 

CocoANUT Pie.— Cut off the brown part of the cocoanut; 
grate the white part, mix it with milk, and set it on the fire. 
Let it boil slowly eight or ten minutes. To a pound of the 
grated cocoanut allow a quart of milk, eight eggs, four table- 
spoonfuls of sifted white sugar, a glass of wine, a small crack- 
er pounded fine, two spoonfuls of melted butter, and half a 
nutmeg. The eggs and sugar should be beaten together to a 
froth, then the wine stirred in. Put them into the milk and 
cocoanut, which should be first allowed to get quite cool; add 
the cracker and nutmeg, and turn the whole into deep pie- 
plates with a lining and rim of puff paste. Bake them as soon 
as turned into the plates. 

Squash Pies.— Boil and sift a good, dry squash, thin it with 
boiling milk until it is about the consistency of thick milk por- 
ridge. To every quart of this add three eggs, two great spoon- 
fuls of melted butter, nutmeg, (or ginger, if you prefer,) and 
sweeten quite sweet with sugar. Bake in a deep plate, with an 
nndercrust. 

Pumpkin Pie. — Cut the pumpkin into as thin slices as possi- 
ble, and in stewing it, the less water you use, the better ; stir 
so that it shall not burn; when cooked and tender, stir in two 
pinches of salt; mash thoroughly, and then strain through a 
sieve; while hoi add a tablespoonful of butter; for every 
measured quart of stewed pumpkin, add a quart of warm milk 
and four eggs, beating yolks and whites separately; sweeten 
with white sugar and cinnamon and nutmeg to taste, and a 
saltspoon of ground ginger. Before putting your pumpkin in 
your pies, itshould be scalding hot, 



S3 HOW TO COOK. 

Custard Pie. — Beat six eggs, sweeten a quart of rich milk, 
that has been boiled and cooled; a stick of cinnamon, or a bit 
of lemon-peel should be boiled in it. Sprinkle in a salt-spoon- 
ful of salt, add the eggs and a grated nutmeg, stirring the 
whole together; line two plates with good paste, set them m 
the oven five minutes to harden: then pour in the custard, and 
bake twenty or tvienty-five minutes. 

Lemon Maringue Pie. — Boil three lemons until they are 
soft enough for a straw to penetrate the rind; mash them up 
fine with a tablespoonful of butter, one cup and a half of pow- 
dered sugar, and the yolks of six eggs; make a thin crust, put 
in the mixture and bake it; when cool, beat up the whites of 
the eggs with one and a half cups of powdered sugar, and 
spread it over the pie; brown it a nice color. 

Tomato Pie.— Take six or eight tomatoes, two lemons, one 
teaspoonf ul flour, and sugar to taste. Crust top and bottom. 



SAUCES, ETC. 



White Wine Sauce.— Tnne, five viinutes.— Add to half a 
pint of good melted butter four spoonfuls of white wine, the 
grated rind of half a lemon, and the sugar pounded and sifted. 
Let it boil, and serve with plum, bread, or boiled batter pud- 
ding, etc. 

Parsley Sauce. — Time, six or seven minutes. — Wash the 
parsley thoroughly, boil it for six or seven minutes, till tender, 
then press the water well out of it; chop it very fine ; make 
half or a quarter of a pint of melted butter, as required, (the 
less butter the less parsley, of course), mix it gradually with 
tlie hot melted butter. 

Apple Sauce. — Pare, core, and slice some apples, put them 
with a little water into the saucepan to prevent them from 
burning, add a little lemon peel; when suflBciently done, take 
out the latter, bruise the apples, put in a bit of butter, and 
sweeten it. 

Bread Sauce, for Roast Turkey or Game. — Peel and slice 
an onion, and simmer it in a pint of new milk until tender; 
break the bread into pieces, and put it into a small stewpan. 
Strain the hot milk over it, cover it close, and let it soak for 
an hour. Then beat it up smooth with a fork, add the pound- 
ed mace, cayeime, salt, and an ounce of butter; boil it up, and 
serve it in a tureen. The onion must be taken out before the 
milk is poured over the bread. 



HOW TO COOK. 33 

Cranberry Sauce.— This sauce is very simply made._ A 
quart of cranberries are washed and stewed with sufficient 
water to cover them ; when they burst, mix with them a pound 
of brown sugar, and stir them. 

Tomato Sauce. — Fresh tomatoes, take out stalk, press them 
all tightly down in a stewpan, cover them, put on the fire, 
gtrain off the liquor that is drawn from them, add to the toma- 
toes a slice of raw ham, two onions; let it stew for an hour, 
then rub it through a sieve. Have in another stewpan a little 
good brown sauce, put your tomato into it, boil all together, 
season with cayenne, salt, sugar, and lemon-juice. 

Celery Sauce. — Three heads of fine white celery cut into 
two-inch lengths, keep them so, or shred them down as straws; 
boil them a few minutes, strain them off, return the celery 
into the stewpan, put either some brown or white stock, and 
boil it until tender; if too much liquor, reduce it by boiling, 
then add either white or brown sauce to it, season it with 
sugar, caj'^enne, pepper, and salt. 

Tomato Catsup.— Boil half a bushel of tomatoes until soft 
— force them through a fine sieve, and put a quart of vinegar, 
one pint of salt, two ounces of cloves, two ounces of allspice, 
cue and a half ounces of cayeime pepper, 1 tablespoonf ul of 
pepper, two heads of garlic, skinned; mix together and boil 
three hours, then bottle without being strained. 

Clear Gravy.— Slice beef thin; bi'oil a part of it over a 
very clear fire, just enough to give color to the gravy, but not 
to dress it; put that and the raw into a very nicely tinned 
stewpan, with two onions, a clove or two, whole black pep- 
pers, ben-ies of allspice, and a bunch of sweet herbs; cover it 
with hot water, give it one boil, and skim it well two or three 
times; then cover it, and simmer till quite strong. 

Arrowroot Sauce for Plum Pudding.— Tme, fifteen 
minutes. — Rub very smoothly a dessertspoonful of arrowroot 
in a little water, or in a glass of white wine; squeeze in the 
juice of half a lemon, add the pounded sugar, and pour grad- 
ually in a half pint of water. Stir it very quickly over a clear 
fire until it boils. Serve it with plum pudding. This sauce 
may be fiavored with anything )^ou prefer. 

Beef Tea.— Beef to be used for beef tea should be cut fine 
or chopped, and then soaked in cold water for two hours, if the 
time can be spared, and placed upon the fire in the same water. 
- After thorough boiling it should be strained, ail the fat care- 
fully removed, and a little salt added. Allow a pint of water 
to every pound of meat. 

Lobster Salad. — Take one or two heads of white heart let- 
tuce; they should be as fresh as possible; lay them in spring 
water for an hour or two; then carefully wash them, and trim 
off all the withered or ca.nkered leaves; 'let them drain awhile, 



34 HOW TO COOK. 

and dry them llglitly in a clean napkin; from the lobster take 
out the coral or red meat, and mince the remaining parts very 
fine. Mash the coral fine with the A'olks of four hard boiled 
eggs, a little sweet-oil, mustard, pepper, and salt, all mixed 
well, and moistened with vinegar; incorporate this mixture 
thoroughly with the meat; put it on a dish ; sprinkle the whole 
with lettuce minced ver}^ fine. 

A Cheap Brown Graa^. — Time, two hours. — Taken pound 
of gravy beef and a sheep's melt, cut it into slices, dredge them 
with flour, and fry them lightly in butter; then pour in hot 
quite a pint of water. Add a seasoning of pepper and salt, a 
small onion, and a piece of celery cut into slices. Set the stew- 
pan over the fire, and let it stew slowly for two hours. Skim 
it well; strain it; add a -spoonful of catsup, and set it by for 
use. 

Mushroom Sattce. — Stew one teacupful of mushrooms in just 
water enough to cover them; drain them, use a seive; add one 
teacupful of milk, three tablespoonfuls of butter, with a little 
nutmeg, mace, salt and pepper; stew over a good fire until it 
begins to thicken, then wet a teaspoonful of flour with cold 
milk, and stir it in until it comes to a boil. Serve in a sauce- 
boat, or pour over boiled chickens or rabbits. 

Mint Sauce. — Take some green mint and chop it fine; for 
every heaping tablespoonful of the chopped mint add one even 
teaspoonful of sugar and a wineglassful of cider vinegar; put 
the vinegar and sugar in a sauce-boat, then add the mint; let 
it stand fifteen minutes before serving. 



PICKLES. 



Green Pickles for Daily Use.— A gallon of vinegar, 
three quarters of a pound of salt, quarter pound of ginger, an 
ounce of mace, quarter ounce of Cayenne pepper, and an ounce 
of mustard seed, simmered in vinegar, and wlien cold 
put in a jar. You may throw in fresh vegetables when j^ou 
choose. 

To Pickle Beet.— Wash it, but do not cut off any of the 
rootlets; boil or bake it tender, peel it, or rub off the outside 
with a coarse cloth, cut it into slices, put it into a jar, with 
cold boiled vinegar, black pepper and ginger. 

Chow-Chow. — A peck of tomatoes, two quarts of green pep- 
pers, lialf a peck of onions, two cabbages cut as for slaw, and 
two quarts of mustard seed. Have a large firkin, put in a lay- 
er ot sliced tomatoes, then one of onions; next one of peppers, 
lastly cabbage; sprinkle over some of the mustard seed, re- 



i 



HOW TO COOK. 35 

peat the layers again, aud so on until you have used up the 
above quantity. Boil a gallon of vinegar with a bit of alum 
two ounces of cloves and two of allspice tied in a little bag and 
boiled with the vinegar, skim it well and turn iutq. the firkin 
l^et It stand twenty-four hours, then pour the whole into a 
large kettle, and let it boil five minutes: turn into the firkin 
and stand away for future use. • ' 

Peppers.— These are done in the same manner as cucumbers 
It you do not like them very fiery, first extract the seeds! 
Feppers should never be put in the same jar with cucumbers- 
but tomatoes are much improved by being pickled with them.' 
1 he bell pepper is the best for pickling. It should be gathered 
before it shows any signs of turning red. Peppers do not re- 
quire any spice. They may be stuffed like mangoes. 

To Pickle Red Cabbage.— Cut the cabbage across in very 
thin slices, lay it on a large dish, sprinkle a good handful of 
salt over it, and cover it with another dish ; let it stand twenty- 
tour hours, put It in a colander to drain, and then lay it in the 
jar. lake white- wine vinegar sufficient to cover it, a little 
mace, cloves and allspice, and put them in whole, with one pen- 
nyworth of cochineal bruised fine, and some whole pepper 
boil it all up together, let it stand till cold, then pour it over 
tUe cabbage, and tie the jar over with leather. 

To Pickle Cucumbers.— Let your cucumbers be small, fresh- 
gatbej-ed, and free from spots; then make a pickle of salt and 
water, strong enough to bear up an egg; boil the pickle and 
skim It well, and then pour it on the cucumbers, and stir them 
down for twenty-four hours; stram them out in a colander 
and dry them well with a cloth; take the best wine or cider 
vinegar, cloves, mace, nutmeg, pepper and race ginger, boil 
tbem up together, put the cucumbers in with a little salt- as 
soon as they begin to turn their color, put into jars, and when 
cold tie on a bladder or leather. 

To Pickle OxXiONS.-Peel and boil them in milk and water a 
tew moinents; put cloves, spice, pepper and salt uito your vine- 
gar, boil It in brass, turn it on your onions, and cover them 
tignt. 

i.^9^w^M"~-^°i^ ^^™?, '^^^^^' ''^^^^ s^^^' pour it over the onions 
Hot, let them stand all night, theji peel and put them into cold 
salt and water. Boil double-distilled vinega? with white spice 
• and when cold, put your onions in a jar and pour the vinegar 
; over them; tie them tight down with leather. Mind always 
to keep pickles tied down close, or they will spoil 



36 HOW TO COOK. 

BREAD, BISCUITS AND PASTRY. 



Family Bread.— Take eight pounds of fine wheat flour, and 
sift it into your bread-dish; rub well into the flour a table- 
spoonful of lard or butter. • Make a deep bole in the middle of 
the flour, and having ready a quart of water, lukewarm, with 
a heaped tablespoonful of fine salt, mix it with flour and 
j'^east, pour it into the cavity; take a large spoon and stir in 
the surrounding flour until you have a thick batter; then 
scatter a handful of flour over the dish, cover up your batter 
and put it in a warm place, if it is cold weather: if summer 
anywhere will be warm enough. This is called setting a sponge. 
When the batter shows pretty determined signs of fermenta- 
tion, pour in as much warm water as will make the whole 
mass of the flour and batter of a proper consistence. Knead it 
well, until it is perfectly clean and smooth ; put it directly 
into your bread pans, which must be fii'st well greased. In 
about half an hour it will be ready to put in the oven, which 
should be properly heated beforehand. 

Milk Bread. — lime, one hour. — One pint of boiling water, 
one pine of new milk, one teaspoonful soda, the same of salt, 
flour enough to form a batter; let it rise, add sufficient flour 
to form a dough, and bake immediately. 

Corn Bread. — Time, one hour and a half. — Take one quart 
of sweet milk, corn meal enough to thicken, three eggs, half a 
Clip of butter, two tablespoonfuls of brown sugar, one tea- 
spoonful of soda, and two of cream of tartar; bake in a moder- 
ate oven. 

Brown Bread. — Time, four or five hours. — One quart of 
Indian meal and one quart of rye, mixed well together; half a 
cup of molasses, one tablespoonful of salt, tablespoonful of 
crtam of tartar, two- thirds of a tablespoonful of soda, di^s-olv- 
ed in a pint of cold water. , When dissolved wet the mixture 
with it, and if it does not thoroughly wet it add a little more. It 
should be nearly as stiff as bread. 

Rye and Indian Bread. — There are mapy different propor- 
tions of mixing it — some put one-third Indian meal with two 
of rye; others like one-third rye and two of Indian; others pre- 
fer it half and half. 

If you use the largest proportion of rye meal, make your 
dough stiff, so that it will mould into loaves; when it is two- 
thirds Indian, it should be softer, and baked in deep earthen 
or tin pans, after the following rule: 

Take 2 quarts of sifted Indian meal; put it into a glazed 
earthen pan, sprinkle over it a tablespoonful of fine salt; pour 
over it about a quart of boiling water, stir and work it till 
every part of the meal is thoroughly wet; Indian meal ab- 
sorbs a greater quantity of water. When it is about milk-warm, 



HOW TO COOK. 37 

If needed. Work the mivMn'p\!JiiT m ' ^^ ,'"°^'^ '"^^'""i ^^afcer, 
stiff, but not firm Hour Vlou^^^^ 

well-buttered pan- nut in fiS f i^"""^^. ''^'"'^y ^ ^^^'S©' 'ieep, 
putting your hand in wnmw«^2""^ f?,^ '°'^°*^*^ ^^^^ top by 
loaf. Set this to r^ e hi a warf'X'^ t^en patting down'^thi 
summer it should i?ot bo pu^Sy h^e fi,-e'" WH ^'"^T' "^ '^^ 
crack on the top, which vvill iiJiT^iwK ?' J^^^^n it begnis to 
hour and a hal p t it uto a wi l^i I'' f^°"* ^" ^^°"^' «^' ^n 
nearlvrShours. Ic^s better to 1^^^^^^^^ oven, and bake it 
unless the weather S warm TnriL '^"""^i^^ tlie oven all night, 
cooked. ThelorfvvillwSabonrinn ^^^^^^ 

best in large loaves. ° ^ ^ pounds. Pan bread keeps 

lumpJoT^ug:;;';^^^^^^^ of hot water, 4 

enough to nTak^ the^miXreau^e n<f?hf i^"'^' ^'^^'^' ^^^ ^^"^ 
it rise well; bake in hoops onT^iddle'^ ^' ^^""^ "^^^- ^^^ 

Excellent Biscuits.— Take of fnn.-^^iKo u 

ammonia 3 drachms in fine powder wh^L' ^f^'^onate of 
root 1 oz., butter 4 oz.^ e^g^ mix in^o « cf 'i¥^^'' t °^-. ^''^■^^^- 
milk, and beat them well w^H.^ v^i ^ -^'f P^^te with new 
roll out thin, and eufcSfem out wi?h «^P."l^°^" *^^i^u^" ^«"''' 
quick oven for 15 minute? ^ ^''''^^''^ ^"^ ^^^^^ ^n a 

y^^sft\Zi^e^',f,?.^^^^ ROLLS. -Mix the 

ed, a peck of finelfour and a an« rfn/^'^^!^" ^^^^^"^ ^"'^ ^train- 
ter) with as much warm n?i Ik as win SS«? ^T^ ^^f "^^ ^^<^- 
thin light dough; stir?t well b,if dn ,^^ff the whole into a 
dough mto dishes and ^ItlttX • Jl ^^°^ ^^^^^^ it. Put the 
ovef; when dt'e'rasp ttioa^e:?''' *''" '™ '' ^"*° ^ <l"i<^k 

an';Ze\\7^i;^,t^,Tnte'gUfi;;^i?^^^^^ of flour 

milk to make a dough nSrSlv'.SiK^T^f' ^"? sufficient 
knead it. Let it risf anX W v i ' ^®!- '^ "P' ^"t do not 
rasp them. ^ ^^^'^ '"^ ^^lls on tnis; when baked, 

Of aMoe., cut w«.°'iri°.s^rj?s:?„f.tKr^^^^^^^^ 

buteroJ^S''c„p^rtu5rT ""-"'"--One-half cup of 



38 HOW TO COOK. 

Corn Muffins.— Time, X/'^een minutes.— Two cups yellow 
Indian meal, one cup flour, three eggs, four tablespooufuls of 
sugar, and a little salt, a piece of lard or butter the size of an 
egg, one teaspoonful saleratus and two of cream tartar (the 
cream tartar must be put in dry witli the flour, and the saler- 
atus mixed with a little warm water and put in last of all) ; 
mix all together with milk as thick as pound-cake batter. 
Pour in corn-muffin pans, and bake in a hot oven. 

Plain Biscuits. — One pound flour, half a pint of milk, two 
ounces and a half of fresh butter. 

Dissolve the butter in the milk made warm but not hot, and 
stir it into the flour to make a firm paste; roll it out thin with 
u plain tin shape or a tumbler; prick each biscuit and bake. 

Paste for Custards.— Rub six ounces of butter into half 
a pound of flour. Mix it well together with two beaten eggs 
and three tablespooufuls of cream. Let it stand a quarter of 
an hour; then work it up, and roll out very thin for use. 

Common Yeast.— Thicken two quarts of water with fine 
flour, about three spoonfuls; boil it half an hour, sweeten it 
with half a spoonful of brown sugar; when nearly cold put in- 
toit four spoonfuls of fresh yeast and pour it into a jug, shake 
it well together, and let it stand one day to ferment near tlie 
fire without being covered. There will be a thin liquor on the 
top, which must be poured off'; shake the remainder and cork 
it up for use. Take always four spoonfuls of the old mix- 
ture to ferment the next quantity, keeping it always in succes- 
ion: A half- peck loaf will require about a gill. 



CAKES, TARTS, ETC., ETC. 



Plum Cake or Wedding Cake.— One pound of dry flour, 
one pound of sweet butter, one pound of sugar, twelve eggs, 
two pounds of raisins, (the sultana raisins are the best), two 
pounds of currants. As much spice as you please. A glass of 
wine, one of brandy, and a pound of citron. Mix the butter 
and sugar as for pound-cake. Sift the spice, and beat the eggs 
very light. Put in the fruit last, stirring it ir gradually. It 
should be well floured. If necessary, add more flour after the 
fruit is in. Butter sheets of paper and line t)ie inside of one 
large pan, or two smaller ones. Lay in some slices of citron, 
then a layer of the mixture, then of the citron, and so on till 
the pan is full. Tliis cake requires a tolerably hot and steady 
oven, and will need baking 4 or 5 hours, according to its thick- 



HOW TO COOK. 

It will be better to let it cool gradually in the oven. Ice 
it when thoroughly cold. 

Marble Cake. — White Part. — Whites of four eggs, one cup 
white sugar, half cup of butter, half cup of sweet milk, two 
teaspoonfuls of baking-powder, one fceaspoonful of vanilla or 
lemons, and two and a half cups of sifted flour. Black part. — 

Yolks of four eggs, one cup brown sugar, half cup molas- 
ses, half cup butter, half cup sour milk, one teaspoonful 
cloves, one teaspoonful cinnamon, one teaspoonful mace, 
one nutmeg, one teaspoonful soda, and one and a half cups 
sifted flour. Put it in the cake-dish alternately, first one part 
and then the other. The tin should be lined with buttered paper. 

Macaroons. — Pound well in a mortar with the white of an 
egg half a pound of sweet almonds blanched, with a few bitter 
ones also blanched. Beat to a froth the whites of four eggs, 
and mix with them 2 lbs. of sugar. Mix all together, and drop 
them on paper placed on a tin. A half an hour in a gentle 
oven bakes them. 

Sponge Cake. — Five eggs, half a pound of sugar, and a 
quarter of a pound of flour. 

Another. — One pound of sugar, nine eggs, the weight of 
four eggs of flour; beat the yolks and white separate; mix the 
sugar and eggs together before you add the flour; a little nut- 
meg. 

Chocolate Cake.— Two cups of sugar, one half cup of but- 
ter, whites of three eggs, one cup of milk, two and three- 
fourths cups of flour, three teaspoonfuls of baking powder; 
bake on jelly-tins; whites of two eggs, well beaten, with not 
quite a cup of pulverized sugar; add six tablespoon fuls of grated 
German sweet chocolate, and two teaspoonfuls of vanilla; 
spread the cakes. 

Lemon Cake. — One cup butter, three cups sugar, four cups 
flour, one cup milk, five eggs, one teaspoonful soda, juice and 
rind of one lemon. 

Loaf Cake. — Five pounds of flour, two of sugar, one and a 
half of butter, eight eggs, one quart of milk; roll the sugar 
with the flour, add yeast suflicient to make it rise, and then 
add the raisins and spice. 

Ginger Cake.— Two and a half pounds flour, 1 of butter, 1 
of sugar, four eggs, one pint of molasses, teaspoonful and a 
half of pearlash, one half pint of milk, tvo ounces of ginger, 
two pounds of currants, half a pound of raisins and a few 
cloves. 

Washington Cake.— Beat six eggs very light, add one 
pound of butter, one of sugar, and one pint of rich milk a little 
sour, a glass of wine, a ground nutmeg, a spoonful of saleratus; 
bake in tins or small pans in a brisk oven. 



40 HOW TO COOK. 

Jumbles. — Stir together, till of a light color, a pound oflsugar 
and half the weight of butter — then add eight eggs, beaten to 
a frotl), essence of lemon, or rose-water, to the taste, and flour 
to make them sufiBciently stiff to roll out. Roll them out in 
powdered sugar, about half an inch thick, cut it into strips 
about half au inch wide, and four inches long,'join the ends to- 
gether, so as to form rings, lay them on flat tins that have been 
buttered, and bake them in a quick oven. 

Jelly Cake. — Beat three eggs well, the whites and yolks 
separately; take a cup of fine white sugar and beat that in well 
with the yolks, and a cupful of sifted flour stirred in gently; 
then stir "in the wliites, a little at a time, a teaspoonf ul of bak- 
ing i:>owder and one tablespoonf ul of milk, pour it in three jelly 
cake plates, and bake from five to ten minutes in a well heated 
oven, and when cold spread with currant jelly, and place each 
layer on top of the other and sift powdered sugar on the top. 

Seed Cake, — Mix quarter of peck of flour with half pound 
of sugar, quarter of an ounce of allspice, and a little ginger; 
melt three-quarters of a pound of butter with half pint of milk ; 
■when just warm, put to it quarter of a pint of yeast, and work 
up to a good dough. Let it stand before the fire a few minutes 
before it goes to the oven ; add seeds or currants ; bake one 
hour and a half. 

A Plain Cake.— Mix together three-quarters of a pound of 
flour, the same of moist sugar, a quarter of a pound of butter, 
one egg, well beaten, aud two tablespoonf uls of milk; bake 
moderately. 

Cranberry Tart. — Pick a quart of cranberries free from all 
imperfections, put a pint of water to them, and put them into 
a stewpan; add a pound of fine brown sugar to them, and set 
them over the fire to stew^ gently untO they are soft; then 
mash them with a silver spoon, and" turn them into a pie-dish 
to become cold. Put a puff -paste around the edge of the dish, 
and cover it over with a crust, or malce an open tart in a flat 
dish with paste all over the bottom of it, and around the edge; 
put in the cranberries; lay cross- bars of paste over the top, aud 
bake. 

Open Tarts, — These are tarts without covers, made in flat 
dishes. Cover the bottom of the dish with a common paste; 
then cut a strip of puff-paste and lay around the edge of the 
disli. Fill in the center with anj' jam or preserved fruit. 
Decorate the top of the jam with narrow V)arsof paste, crossed 
all over, or stamped leaves. Bake for half an hour. 

Cherry Tart. — Take about one pound and a half of cher- 
ries, half a pound of short crust, and moist sugar to taste. 

Pick the stalks from the cherries, put a tiny cup upside down 
in the middle of a deep pie-dish, fill around it with the fruit, 
and add moist sugar to taste. Lay some short crust around 
the edge of the dish, put on the cover as directed before, orna- 



HOW TO COOK. 41 

ment the edges, and bake it in a quick oven. When ready to 
serve, sift some loaf sugar over the top. 

Rhubarb Tart. — Cat the large stalks from the leaves, strip 
off the outside skin and cut the sticks into pieces half an inch 
long. Line a pie dish with paste rolled rather thicker than a 
dollar3piece, put in a layer of rhubarb, strew the sugar over 
it, then fill it up with the other pieces of stalks, cover it with a 
rich puff paste, cut a slit in the center, trim off the edge with 
a knife and bake it in a quick oven. Glaze the top or strew 
sugar over it. 

Plain- Apple Tart.— Rub a pie-dish over with butter, line 
it with short pie crust rolled thin, pare some cooking apples, 
cut them in small pieces, fill the pie-dish with them, sti'ew over 
them a cupful of fine moist sugar, three or four cloves or a lit- 
tle grated lemon peel, and add a few spoonfuls of water; then 
cover with puff -paste crust, trim off the edges with a sharp 
knife and cut a small slit at each end, pass a gigling iron 
around the pie half an inch inside the edge, and bake in a quick 
oven. 

Crullers. — One cup of sugar, one cup of buttermilk or sour 
milk, three tablespoon fuls of melted butter, one egg, one tea- 
spoonful of saleratus; flavor with nutmeg, a little salt; mix as 
soft as possible, and cut any desired shape. Have your fat 
hot. If a piece of raw potato be peeled and thrown in the fat, 
it will keep the crullers from burning. 

Doughnuts.— Half a pint of sweet milk, half a cup of but- 
ter, (scaur), one cup of yeast, salt; flavor with nutmeg or cin- 
namon. Mix them at night. In the morning roll out and let 
them raise until very light, and drop in hot fat. They are 
very nice, after they are fried, to roll them in pulverized 
sugar. 

Ginger Snaps. — Take two tea-cups of molasses, one of but 
ter, and one of sugar. Boil the butter and sugar together. 
Add a tablespoonful of black pepper, two of ginger, a tea- 
spoonful of saleratus, and flour to roll out. Roll them thin; 
cut in shapes and bake quick. These are very nice, and the 
longer they are kept the better they will be. 

Cookies. — To three cups of sugar put one of butter, one of 
milk, three eggs, a teaspoonful of saleratus dissolved in the 
milk, and carraway seeds, if you like, or other spice. 

Frosting for Cake.— For the white of one egg, 9 heaping 
teaspoons of white refined sugar, 1 Poland starch. Beat the 
eggs to a stiff froth so that you can turn the plate upside down 
without the eggs falling off, stir in the sugar slowly vvith a 
wooden spoon, 10 or 15 minutes constantly; to frost a com- 
mon-sized cake 1 egg and a half. 



42 HOW TO COOK. 

A Chaklotte Russe.— Cut as many very thin slices of 
white bread as will cover -the bottom and line the sides of a 
baking- dish, but first rub it thick with butter. Put apples, in 
thin slices, into the dish, in layers, till full, strewing sugar be- 
tween and bits of butter. In the meantime, soak as many 
slices of bread as will cover the whole, in warm milk, over 
which lay a plate and a weight to keep the bread close on the 
apples. Bake slowly three hours. To a middling-sized dish 
use half a pound of butter in the whole. 

Molasses Gingfrbread. — One egg, one tablespoon butter, 
two-thirds cup molasses, half cup milk, one teaspoon soda, two 
and one half cups flour, one tablespoon ginger, one teaspoon 
cream tartar, salt; sour milk may be used, but if so, use one 
cup, two teaspoons soda and no cream tartar. 



GRIDDLE CAKES, PAN CAKES, ETC.. 
ETC., ETC. 



Buckwheat Cakes.— Let the buckwheat be of the hulled 
sort, and fresh. Put into a two-quart pitcher one and a half 
pints of tepid water; add four tablespoonfuls of bakers' or as 
much "compressed" yeast as will make one loaf of bread — 
other kinds in proportion — with a little salt. Then stir in buck- 
wheat enough to make a thick batter: cover the pitcher and 
set away to rise over night, after beating thoroughly. In the 
morning add three tablespoonfuls of molasses and a quarter of 
a teaspooiiful of soda, dissolved in about three tablespoonfuls 
of milk. Beat all well together, and pour the cakes from the 
pitcher upon a well-heated griddle. 

Graham Griddle Cakes.— Ti^nfi, five minutes.— One pintof 
milk, half a cup of sour cream, half a teaspoonful of soda, the 
same of salt; stir in Graham flour not as stiff as for fine flour 
cakes, (no eggs) ; heve the gi'iddle quite hot; or with yeast the 
same as with buckwheat. 

Rice Cakes.— Boil a cupful of rice until it becomes a jelly; 
while it is warm, mix a large lump of butter with it and a lit- 
tle salt. Add as much milk to a small teacupful of flour as 
will make a tolerable stiff batter — stir it until it is quite 
smooth, and then mix it with the rice. Beat six eggs as light 
as possible, and add them to the rice. 

These cakes are fried on a griddle as all other pancakes— 
they must be carefully turned. 



HOW TO COOK. 43 

Serve them with powdered sugar and nutmeg. They should 
be served as hot as possible, or they will become heavy — and a 
heavy pancake is a very poor affair. 

Waffles.— Take a quart of flour, and wet it with a little 
sweet milk; then stir in enough milk to form a thick batter. 
Add a tablespoouf ul of melted butter, two eggs well-beaten, a 
teaspoonfiil of salt, and yeast to raise it. When light, heat 
your waffle U'on, by placing it on a bed of clear, bright coals; 
grease it well, aiid fill it with the batter. Two or three min- 
utes will suffice to bake on one side; then turn the iron over; 
and when brown on both sides, the cake is done. Butter the 
waffles as soon as done, and serve with powdered white sugar 
and cinnamon; or you may put on the sugar and spice at the 
same time with the butter. 

Indian Griddle Cakes.— 1 quart of milk, 6 eggs, teaspoon- 
ful of saleratus, some nutmeg, teaspoonful of salt, stir meal in 
until you have a thick batter, fry in melted butter and lard. 

Apple Fritters. — Beat and strain the yolks of seven eggs, 
and the whites of three; mix into thein a pint of new milk, a 
little grated nutmeg, a pinch of salt* and a glass of brandy. 
Well beat the mixture, and then add gradually sufficient flour 
to make a thick batter. Pare and core six large apples, cut 
them in slices about a quarter of an inch thick, sprinkle pound- 
ed sugar over them, and set them by for an hour or more; dip 
each piece of apple in the batter, "and fry them in hot lard 
about six minutes; the lard should not be niade too hot at first, 
but must become hotter as they are frying. Serve on a nap- 
kin with sifted sugar over them. 

Snow Pancakes. — Make a stiff batter with four ounces of 
flour, a quarter of a pint of milk, or more if required, a little 
grated nutmeg, and a pinch of salt. Divide the batter into any 
number of pancakes, and add three large spoonfuls of snow to 
each. Fry them light! v, in very good butter, and serve quick- 
ly. 



PRESERVES^ JELLIES, JAMS, ETC, 



Strawberry Jam.— To six pounds of strawbeiries allow 
three pounds of sugar. Procure some fine scarlet strawberries, 
strip off the stalks, nnd put them into a preserving pan over a 
moderate fire; boil them for half an hour, keeping them con- 
stantly stirred. Break the sugar into small pieces and mix 
it with the strawberries after they have been removed 
from the fire. Then place it again over the fii'e, and bpil it for 



44 HOW TO COOK. 

anothei* half hour very quickly. Put it into pots, and whan 
cold covei- it over with brandy papers and a piece of paper 
moistened with the white of an egg over the tops. 

Apple Marmalade. — Take a peck of apples, full grown, but 
not the least ripe, of all or any sort; quarter tbeni and take 
out the cores, but do not pare them; put theui into a preserv- 
ing pan with one g^allon of water, and let them boil moderate- 
ly until you think the pulp wall run, or suffer itself to be 
squeezed through a cheese-cloth, only leaving the peels behind. 
Then to each quart of pulp add one pound, good weight, of loaf 
sugar, either broken in small pieces or pounded, and boil it 
all together for half an hour and ten minutes, keeping it stir- 
red ; then put it into pots, the larger the better, as it keeps 
longer in a large body. 

Gooseberry Jam.— Three pounds of loaf sugar, six pounds 
of rough red gooseberries. Pick off the stalks and buds from 
the gooseberries, and boil them carefully but quickly for rather 
more than half an hour, stirring continually; then add the 
sugar, pounded fine, and boil the jam quickly for half an hour, 
stirriujT it all the time to prevent its sticking to the preserving 
pan. When done put it into pots, cover it with brandy paper, 
and secure it closely down w ith paper moistened with the white 
of an egg. 

Pine-Apples. — Take pine-apples as ripe as you can possibly 
get them, pare them, and cut them into thin slices. Weigh 
them, and to each pound of pine-apple allow a pound of loaf- 
sugar. Place a layer of the pine-apple slices in the bottom of 
a large, deep dish, and spiinkle it thickly with a layer of the 
sugar, which must first be powdered. Then put another layer 
of the pine-apple, and sugar it well; and so on till the dish is 
full, finishing with a layer of sugar on the top. Cover the dish, 
and let it stand all night. In the morning remove the slices of 
pine-apple to a tureen. Pour the syrup into a prcsei-ving ket- 
tle, and skim it at least half an hour. Do not remove it from 
the fire, till the scum has entirely ceased to rise. Then pour 
the syrup, boiling hot, over the slices of pine-apple in tiie 
tureen. Cover it and let it stand till cold. Then transfer the 
sliced pine-apple and the syrup to wide-mouthed glass jars, 
or cover them well, pasting down thick white paper over the 
top. 

'^ Orange Marmalade. — Take six pounds of oranges; cut the 
peel so as to make it peel off in foiir pieces. Put all the peels 
on the fire in a ])reserving-pan, with a large quantity of water, 
and boil them for two houi's, then cut them in very thin slices. 
While they are boiling, press the inside of the oranges through 
a splinter sieve, narrow enough to prevent the seeds and skin 
from going through. When this is done, and the peels cut into 
the thinnest shreds, put the whole on a fire in a copper or brass 
pan, wittj eight pounds of loaf su<5ar broken small, Boil it all 



HOW TO COOK, ^45 

together for ten minutes; it may then be taken off the fire and 
put into preserving jars. 

Grape Jelly. — Take grapes before they are fully ripe, and 
boil them gently with a very little water; then strain and pro- 
ceed as with currant jelly. Wild grapes will not make as firm 
a jelly as cultivated ones. 

• Wine Jelly.— To one and a half boxes gelatine, one pint 
cold water, juice of three lenions, grated rind of two; let stand 
an hour, then add two pounds of loaf sugar, three pints boiling 
water; boil five minutes; just before straining in flaimel 
bag, stir in one pint sherry wine, six tablespoonfuls of best 
brandy. 

Gooseberry Jam. — To every pound of gooseberries add a 
pound of sugar; bruise the gooseberries in a mortar, and boil 
them well. When cold put the jam in pots. 

Preserved Strawberries.— Pick off all the stems, and to 
every quart of fruit add a quart of sugar; mix well with the 
sugar, and put tliem over a slow fire till the syrup commences 
to form, then put them over a hot fire, and Jet them boil quick- 
ly for fifteen minutes, skimming it well. Put them boiling hot 
into stone jars, seal up tightly. 

Calves' Foot Jelly.— For one mould, chop up two calves' 
feet, put them on in about four quarts of water to boil — this 
should be done the day before you require the jelly — keep it 
well skimmed and boil gently all day ; it will then be reduced 
to about two quarts; the next morning take off all the grease, 
and wash the top with a little warm water, then rinse it with 
cold, place the stock in the proper size stewpan to allow it to 
boil well; then put in a paring of lemon, without any white ad- 
hering to it, two or three cloves, a piece of cinnamon, a few 
bruised coriander seeds, and a bay leaf; let it boil a few min- 
utes, then take it off to get cool. Have ready, broken in a bas- 
in, six or eight whites of eggs and the shells, chop them up to- 
gether, squeeze five or six lemons, strain the juice, add sugar 
to the whites of eggs and a glass of cold water, then add the 
lemon joice; add all this well mixed into the calves' foot stock, 
place it on your fire, and let it rise to the top of your scewpan; 
be cai'eful it does not go over; then take it off the fire, place it 
on the cover, and put some hot coals upon it; let it stand a few 
minutes, then run it repeatedly through the jelly-bag until 
beautifully bright and clear ; fiavor it with what may be re- 
quii'ed. 

Apple Jam. — Core and pare a good quantity of apples, chop 
them w-ell, allow equal weight of apples and sugar; make a 
syrup of your sugar by adding a little water, boiling and skim- 
ming well, then throw in some grated lemon peel and a little 
white ginger with the apples; boil until the fruit looks clear. 

Green Gage Jam. — Rub ripe green gages through a sieve, 
put dM the pulp into a pan with ai^ equal weight of loaf suge4' 



46 HOW TO COOK. 

pounded and sifted. Boil the whole till sufficiently thick, and 
put into pots. 

f" Preserved Lemon Peel.— Make a thick S3'rup of vrhite 
sugar, chop the lemon peel fine and boil it in the syrup t«n 
minutes; put in glass tumblers and paste paper over. A 
teaspoonful of this makes a loaf of cake, or a dish of sauce 

nice. 

• 

Raspberry Jellt. — This is ttie most agreeable of all jellies. 
Crush the raspberries, and strain them through a wet cloth. 
Put the juice into a preserving-pan, with three-quarters of a 
pound of sugar to one pound of juice; boil it ten niinutps, and 
take care that it does not darken ; remove the pan from the fire : 
strain the juice through a bag and pour it into pots. Do not 
toucli the bag till nil the jell}'" has passed through, else it may 
become thick. 

Brandy Peaches, Plums, etc.— Gather peaches before 
they are quite ripe, prick them with a large needle, and rub 
off the down with a piece of flannel. Cut a quill and pass it 
carefully around the stone to loosen it. Put them into a large 
preserving-pan, with cold water rather more than enough to 
cover them, and let the water become gradually scalding hot.' 
If the water does more than simmer very gently, or if the fire 
be fierce, the fruit will be likely to crack. AVhen thej' are 
tender, lift them carefully' out, and fold them up in flannel or| 
a soft tablecloth, in several folds. Have ready a quart, or 
more, as the peaches require, of the best white brandy, and 
dissolve ten ounces of powdered sugar in it. When the peaches 
are cool, put them into a glass jar, and pour the brandy and 
sugar over them. Cover with leather and a bladder. Apricots 
and plums in the same way. 



COFFEE, TEA AND CHOCOLATE. 



Excellent Cdffee.— For /7i >•<'<' Breakfastt cifp.v.— Take four 
tablespoonfuls of roasted coffee berries, and put them in tue 
oven till well warmed through; then grind them. Put the 
coffee in the pot, which should have a piece of tin over the 
middle strainer to prevent the coffee from filling up the holes; 
pour in three teacupfuls of boiling water. The breakfast cup 
should be filled with boiling milk. 

Of tea little need be said; almost every one knows the rules 
for making it. 

Boiling water should alone be used. 

Metal teapots in preference to earthenware. 

Silver is better than either. 



HOW TO COOK. 47 

A spoonful ot tea for each person. Heat the teapot first with 
some boiling water, then pour that into the teacups to warm 
them; put in your tea, and pour enough water on to the tea to 
cover it; let it stand three or four minutes, then nearly fill the 
teapot with water, let it stand a few minutes, and pour out, 
leaving some portion of tea in the pot when you replenish, that 
all the strength may not be poured away in the first cup. 

Chocolate. — Tiyne, ten to twelve minutes. — Scrape up 
abouE a quarter of a pound of the chocolate cake into a sauce- 
pan with two gills of water; set it on the fire; stir it constantly 
with a wooden spoon until it is rather thick, then work it very 
quickly with the spoon. Stir in a pint of boiling milk by de- 
gj"ees and serve it. 

Substitute FOR Cream in Coffee or Tea.— The white of 
an egg beaten to a froth, mixed with a lump of butter as big 
as a hazel-nut. Pour on the cofllee gradually, so it will not 
curdle, and you can hardly distinguish the preparation from 
fresh cream. 



USEFUL RECIPES. 



Cold in the Head. — This can be cured at once if taken in 
time. Dissolve a tablespoouf ul of pulverized borax in a pint of 
hot water; when tepid, snuff some up the nostrils two or three 
times a day; or use the dry powdered borax like snuff, taking 
a pinch as often as requii'ed. 

Hoarseness or Tickling in the Throat.— Take a small 
quantity of dry pulverized borax, place it on the tongue, and 
let it slowly dissolve, and run down the throat. It is also good 
to keep the throat moist at night, and prevent coughing. 

To Curb Freckles.— Mix together two ounces of lemon 
juice, one drachm of pulverized borax, one half drachm of 
sugar; allow them to stand in a bottle for a few days. Rub 
occasionally over the face and hands. 

To Remove Stains prom the Hands.— A few drops of oil 
vitriol (sulphuric acid) in water, will take the stains of fruit, 
dark dyes,"stove blacking, etc., from the hands without injur- 
ing them. Care must, however, be taken not to drop it upon 
the clothes. It will remove the color from woolen, and eat 
holes in cotton fabrics 



48 HOW TO COOK. 

To Remove Rust. — To remove rust from steel, cover with 
sweet oil weJl rubbed on; in forty eight hours use mislacked 
lime powdered very fine. Rub it till the rust disappears. To 
prevent rust, mix with fat oil varnish four-fifths of well-recti- 
fied spirits of turpentine. Apply the varnish by means of a 
sponge. Articles varnished in this manner will retain their 
brilliancy, and never contract any spots of rust. It may bo 
applied to copper philosophical instruments, etc. 

To Prepare an Invigorating Bath.— A tablespoonful or 
more of pulverized borax thrown into the bath-tub while 
bathing, will communicate a velvety softness to the water, and 
at the same time invigorate the bather. Persons troubled with 
nervousness or wakeful nights, will find this kind of bath very 
beneficial — more so than sea-bathing. 

To Clean Silver.— Table silver should be cleaned at least 
once or twice a week, and can easily be kept in good order, 
and polished brightly. Have your dish- pan half full of boiling 
water; place the silver in so that it may become warm, then, 
wdth a soft cloth dipped into the hot water, soaped and sprink- 
led with pulverized borax, scour well; rinse in clear hot 
water; dry with a clean, dry cloth. 

Spruce Beer.— Take four ounces of hops, boil half an hour 
in one gallon of water, strain it, add sixteen gallons of warm 
water, two gallons of molasses, eight ounces of essence of 
spruce dissolved in one quart of water; put it in a clean cask, 
shake it well together, add a half pint of yeast, let it stand and 
work one week; if warm weather, less time will do. When 
drawn off, add one spoonful of molasses to each bottle. 

Cottage Beer.— Take a pe«k of good wheat bran, and put 
it into ten gallons of water, with three handfuls of good hops, 
and boil the whole together mitil the bran and hops sink to the 
bottom. Then strain it through a hair sieve, or a thin cloth, 
into a cooler, and when it is about lukewarm add two quarts 
of molasses. As soon as the molasses is melted, pour the whole 
into a ten-gallon cask, with two tablespoonfuls of yeast. When 
the fermentation has subsided, bung up the cask, and in four 
days it will be ready to use. 

To Brighten a Copper Boiler.— Use a coarse cloth, have 
a pail of very hot w'ater, soap the cloth a little, sprinkle on 
plenty of pulverized borax, and rub the boiler well; rinse off 
with hot water, and dry with a soft cloth. This is much bet- 
ter and safer than using acid. 

Cage Birds. — Reared birds are exposed to several maladies, 
partly because their first nourishment consists of unnatural 
food, and partly, also, because pet birds have all kinds of deli- 
cacies given to them. They therefore rarely attain to the age 
of six years. They remain most healthy and live longest, 



HOW TO COOK. 49 

when they have neither sugar, pastry, nor other delicacies 
given them, but are fed constantly on rape-seed, intermixed 
occasionally, by way of treat, with henjp, and occasionally a 
little green food, which cleanses their stomachs. They aj'e 
more healthy, also, if they have some water and sand placed in 
the cage, that they may pick up grains to assist in the process 
of digestion. The remedy for moulting is a rustv nail placed 
in the drinking vessel, good food and ants' eggs, if accustomed 
to the latter when youug. 



MISCELLANEOUS. 



Toasted Cheese. — Cut equal quantities of cheese, and hav- 
ing pared it into extremely small pieces, ]:>lace it in a pan with a 
little milk, and a small si ice of butter. Stir it over a slow fii-e 
until melted and quite smooth. Take it off the fire quickly, 
mix the yolk of an egg with it, and brown it in a toaster before 
the fire. 

Oatmeal, Porridge. — Time, half an hour. — Put a pint of 
warm water into a ste wpan over the fire, and as it boils dredge 
in two ounces of oatmeal with your left. hand, and stir with 
the right. When it is made, turn it into a soup-plate, adding 
a little salt, or a little sugar, according to taste. Send it to 
table with a jug of hot milk, which should be added to it by 
degrees for eating. 

To Cook Hominy.— Take three cups of water to one cup of 
hominy; boil slowly for three-quarters of an hour; the longer 
it boils the better it is; then add half a teacupful of sweet milk 
to one cup of hominy, then boil ten minutes more; stir it fre- 
quently while boiling. 

Ragout of Ducks.— Put the gizzards, livers, necks, etc., 
into a pint of good, strong beef broth, or other well-seasoned 
stock. Season the ducks inside with salt and mixed spices. 
Brown them on all sides in a frying-pan, and then stew them 
till tender in strained stock. When nearly ready, thicken the 
sauce with browned flour and butter. 

To Pot Lobsters —Take from a hen lobster the spawn, 
coral, flesh, and pickings of the head and claws; pound wpII, 
and season with Cayenne, white pepper and mace, according 
to taste. Mix it to a firm paste with good melted butter. 
Pound and season the flesh from the tail, and put it into a pot, 
and then fill with the other paste. Cover the top of each pot 
with clarified butter, and keep it in a cool place. 



50 HOW TO COOK. 

Oyster Forcemeat.— Take off the beards from half a pint 
of oysters, wash them well in their own liquor, and mince 
them very fine; mix with them the peel of half a lemon 
chopped small, a sprig of parsley, a seasoning of salt, nutmeg, 
and a -uerj/ little Cayenne, and about an ounce of butter in 
small pieces. Stir into these ingredients five ounces of bread- 
crumbs, and when thoroughly mixed together, bind it with the 
yolk of an egg and part of the oyster liquor. 

Egg Plant au Gratin.— Peel and cut them in slices, length- 
wise, and arrange them in layers on a well-buttered tin, pre- 
viously rubbed with garlic. t*ut between the layers a sprink- 
ling of fine bread-crumbs, chopped parsley, sweet herbs, and 
pepper and salt to taste; pour over them some liquified butter; 
add a si)rinkling of grated cheese and a few baked bread- 
crumbs; bake in the oven, and brown with a salamander. 

Fowl Broiled. — Separate the back of the fowl and lay the 
two sides open ; skewer the wings, as for roasting, season well 
with pepper and salt, and broil; send to table with the inside 
of the fowl to the surface of the dish ; it is an admirable break- 
fast dish when a journey is to be performed. 

Chicken Currie. —Cut up the chicken raw, slice onions, and 
fry both in butfer with great care, of a fine light brown; 
or, if you use chickens that have been dressed, fry only the 
onions. Lay the joints, cut into two or three pieces each, into 
a stewpan, with a veal or mutton gravy, and a clove or two of 
garlic. Simmer till the chicken is quite tender. Half an hour 
before you serve it, rub smooth a spoonful or two of currie- 
powder, a spoonful of flour, and an ounce of butter; and add 
this, with fornr large spoonfuls of cream, to the stew. Salt to 
your taste. When serving, squeeze in a little lemon. 

Fresh Cod, Boiled.— The thickness of this fish being very 
unequal, the head and shoulders greatlj"- preponderating, it is 
seldom boiled whole, because in a large fit.h the tail, from its 
thinness in comparison to the upper part of the fish, would be 
very much overdone. Whenever it is boiled whole, a small fish 
should be selected. Tie up the head and shoulders well, place 
it in the kettle with enough cold water to completely cover it; 
cast in a handful of salt. The fish, if a small one, will be cook- 
ed in twenty minutes after it has boiled — if large, it will take 
half an hour. When enough, drain it clear of the scum, and 
remove the string; send ic to table garnished with the liver, 
the smelt, and the roe of the fish, scraped horse-radish, lemon 
sliced, and sprigs of parsley. 

The tail, when separated from the body of the fish, may be 
cooked in a variety of fashions. Some salt rubbed into it, and 
hanging it two days, will render it exceedingly good when 
cooked. It may be spread open, and thoroughly salted, or it 
may be cut into fillets, and fried. 



HOW TO COOK. 51 

If the cod is cooked when very fresh, some salt should be 
rubbed down the back and the bone before boiling — it much 
improves the flavor, or, if bung for a day, the eyes of the 
fish should be removed, and salt filled in the vacancies. It will 
be found to give firmness to the fish, and add to the richness 
of the flavor. 

Stewed Sweetbreads.— After they are parboiled and cold, 
lard them with fat pork; put them in a stewpan, with some 
good veal grav)^, and juice of a small lemon ; stew them till 
verj'' tender, and just before serving thicken with flour and 
butter; serve them with the gravy. " 

Rice Croquettes. — One teacupful of rice; boil in a pint of 
milk, and a pint of water; when boiled and hot, add a piece 
of butter the size of an egg, two tablespoonfuls of sugar, two 
eggs, juice and grated peel of one lemon; stir this up well; 
have ready the 3^olks of two eggs, beaten on a plate, cracker 
cinimbs on another; make the rice in rolls, and dip in the egg 
and crumbs; fry them in butter; serve hot. 

Suet Pudding. — Mix one pound of flour very dry with half 
a pound of flnelj'- chopped suet, add eggs and a pinch of salt; 
make it into a paste with the water, beating it all rapidly to- 
gether with a wooden spoon. Flour a pudding cloth, put the 
paste into it, tie the cloth tightly, and plunge it into boiling 
water. The shape may be either a roll, or a round ball. When 
it is done, untie the cloth, turn the pudding out, and serve very 
hot. 

Gooseberry Fool.— Put two quarts of gooseberries in a 
stewpan with a quart of water; when they begin to turn yel- 
low and swell drain the water from them and press them with 
the back of a spoon through a colander; sweeten them to your 
taste, and set them to cool. Put two quarts of milk over the 
fire beaten up with the 5'olks of four eggs and a little grated 
nutmeg: stir it over the fire until it begins to simmer, then 
take it off and stir it gradually into the cold gooseberries; let 
it stand until cold and serve it. The eggs may be left out 
and milk only may be used. Half this quaniity makes a 
good dishful. 



52 HOW TO COOK. 

Omelet Souffle. — Separate the whites fi-om the yolks of 
twelve eggs. Put the whites into a basin and beat them ex- 
tfemely fast till they form a very thick snow. Then beat six 
yolks separately, with two ounces of sugar, and a dessertspoon- 
ful of orange-fiower water, or just enough to flavor it to your 
taste. 

Before beating the eggs have readj^ a round tin, well greased 
all over the inside with fresh butter. 

When you have finished beating the six yolks mix them 
very quickly with the whites, lest the snow should turn — that 
is, melt into water. Put it then into the buttered tin, and 
pace it*n the oven. It will be so thick, if it is well and skil- 
fully mixed, that there will be no fear of its running over. 
Watch it well, glancing at it from time to time through a 
little opening of the oven door, to see how it is going on; as 
soon as it has risen very high, and is of a golden color, take it 
out of the oven. 

Do not suffer the omelet souffle to remain long in the oven. 
If it is not watched it will fall in and become a mere galette. 
Let the oven be of a very gentle heat, or the bottom of the 
omelet will be burnt before the top is done. 

Before putting the tin in the oven, you may powder the 
snow with fine sugar; it crystalizes and has a very pretty 
effect. As soon as the omelet is done it must be sent to table. 

Pumpkin Pudding.— r^ne, two hours.— Tare the pumpkin 
and put it down to stew, strain it through a colander; two 
pounds of pumpkin to one pound of butter, one pound of sugar, 
and eight eggs; beat to a froth; one wine-glass of brandy, half 
wine-glass of rose water, one teaspoonf ul mace, cinnamon, and 
nutmeg all together. 

Oyster Patties. — Cover some small tins, called patty- 
pans, with puff paste, cut it round, and put in the center a 
small piece of bread, (to prevent the top and bottom from col- 
lapsing) ; cover it with paste, slightlj" j^inch the edges together, 
and boke in a brisk oven a quarter of an hour. Then, having 
bearded and parboiled a dozen large 03'sters, cut them in 
quarters and put them in a stew pan -with an ounce of butter, 
a teaspoonful of flour, mixed with their liquor, and the broth 
from the beards, (which you must stew in a small saucepan, 
with a little stock gravy and two or three shreds of lemon). 



HOW TO COOK. 53 

Season with a very little salt, a quarter of a teaspoon ful of 
powdered mace, and the same quantity of Cayenne; then 
gradually add three tablespoonfuls of cream. Mix well; then, 
with a thin knife, open the patties, take out the bread, put in a 
spoonful of the oysters and cream gravy ; put the covers on 
again and serve. 

Potted Halibut. — Take two pounds of halibut; cut into 
square pieces; salt with a teaspoonful of salt; sprinkle over 
the pieces a teaspoonful of pepper, and put in a dozen whole 
cloves, one whole Jamaica pepper, and a few shreds of mace; 
pour over it one-half teacupful of vinegar, a teacupful of ale 
or lager beer, a teaspoonful of tarragon vinegar, and lastly, 
an ounce of butter; put in a baking dish, have a plate on top 
of the fish, and bake slowh/ for 40 minutes. 

Stewed Rock-fish.— Take a large rook-fish, and cut it in 
slices nearly an inch thick. Sprinkle it very slightly with salt, 
and let it remain for half an hour. Slice very thin a dozen 
large onions; put them into a stew-pan with a quarter of a 
pound of fresh butter, cut into bits. Set them over a slow fire, 
and stir them continually till they are quite soft, taking care 
not to let them become brown. Black-fish and bass are equal- 
ly good cooked this way. 

Salt Cod— BoiLED.—Put the fish to soak over night, in 
warm water; set in a w^arm place. The next morning take it 
out of the water; scrape and scrub it well with a hard brush; 
put it in a kettle of fresh cold water; bring it to the boiling 
point, and keep it at that heat until half an hour before dinner. 
Give it a good boil up-, drain it well, and send to table with 
egg-sauce, or melted butter thickened with hard-boiled eggs 
minced fine. Many people like salt pork cut in small square 
pieces, and fried brown, as a sauce for salt fish. It is some- 
times also minced with potato, and warmed over when first 
sent to table. 

To Steam a Ham. — If the ham has been hung for some time, 
put it into cold water, and let it soak all night, or let it lie on a 
damp stone sprinkled with water for two days to mellow. 
Wash it well, put it into a steamer — there are proper ones 
made for the purpose— over a pot of boiling water. Steam It; 
for as long a time as the weight requires, 



5i HOW TO COOK. 

This is by far the best way of cooking a ham. It prevents 
waste and retains the flavor. When it is done, skin it and 
strew bread-raspings over it as usual. If j^ou preserve the skin 
as whole as possible and cover the ham when cold with it, it 
will prevent its becoming drj^ 

Pigeon Soup. — Take eight good pigeons; cut up two, and 
put them on with as much water as will make a large tureen 
of soup, adding the pinions, neck<i, gizzards and livei's of the 
othej's; boil well and strain; season the whole pigeons within 
with mixed spices and salt, and truss them with their legs into 
their belly. Take a large l^andful of parsley, j'oung onions, 
and spinach"; pick and wash them clean, and shred small; then 
take a handful of grated bread, put a lump of butter about the 
size of a hen's egg in a frying-pan, and when it boils, throw in 
the bread, stirring well until it becomes a fine brown color. 

To Stew Cold Venison.— Cut the meat in small slices, and 
put the trimmings and bones into a saucepan, with barely 
enough water to cover them. Let them stew two hours. Sti'ain 
the liquor in a stew-pan: add to it some bits of butter rolled 
in flour, and whatever gravy was left of the venison. Stir in 
some currant jelly, and let it boil half an hour. Then put in 
the meat, and' keep it over the fire long enough to heat it 
through, but do not let it boil. 

Currant Puddino. — An excellent famil}^ pudding may be 
made of the following ingredients: A pound of minced suet, a 
pound of bread crumbs or flour, three quarters of a pound of 
currants, washed and picked, a little powdered cinnamon and 
grated nutmeg, and a very little salt. Beat two eggs, and add 
as much milk to them as will wet the whole. Mix all to- 
gether, tie in a cloth as previously directed, and boil for three 
hours. 

Elderberry Wine. — Take one quart of pure elderbery 
juice, two quarts water, three pounds sugar, (the best sugar 
for this purpose is what we call molasses sugar, viz. : sugar that 
settles from molasses into the bottom of hogsheads: mix all 
together, and let it ferment until it works itself clear; strain 
and bottle; Ipave the bottles uncorked until it is done working, 
then cork and put away in a cellar, and in a few months you 
will have good wine, but age will improve it. 



HOW TO COOK. 55 

Elderberry Wine. — Boil three gallons of elderberries in 
two and one-half gallons of water for 20 minutes, then strain 
through a fine sieve, not bruising the berries ; then measure 
the liquid into a boiJer, and to every quart add one pound of 
moist sugar and the peel of four lemons; place on fire and heat 
scalding hot; add the whites of four eggs, weU beaten, stirring 
into the liquid. When the liquor is cool place it in a keg; 
place a piece of toasted bread, spread with compressed yeast 
as you would butter, in the keg; bung the keg air-tight; a 
quarter of a pound of bruised ginger placed in the keg gives 
the wine a fine flavor; let it remain in the keg from six to 
eight weeks, when it will be ready to bottle. 

Chocolate Caramels.— Take of grated chocolate, milk, 
molasses, and sugar, each one cupful, and a piece of butter the 
size of an egg; boil until it will harden when dropped into cold 
water; add vanilla; put in a buttered pan, and before it cools 
mark off in square blocks. 

Mushroom Catsup.— Take a stewpanfuUof large-flap mush- 
rooms that are not worm-eaten, the skins and f linge of those 
you have pickled, throw a handful of salt among them, and set 
them by a slow fire; they will produce a great deal of liquor, 
which you must strain ; and put to it four ounces of sbalots, 
two cloves of garlic, a good deal of pepper, ginger, mace, cloves, 
and a few bay leaves — boil and skim very well. When cold, 
cork close. In two months boil it up again with a little fresh 
spice and a stick of horse-radish, and it will then keep the year, 
which mushroom catsup rarely does, if not boiled a second 
time. 

Eel Sauce. — Cut the eels into large pieces and put them 
into a stewpau with a few slices of bacon, ham, veal, two 
onions, with all sorts of roots; soak it till it catches, then add a 
glass of white wine and good broth, a little cullis, three or four 
tarragon leaves, chei'vil, a clove of garhc, two spices and a 
bay leaf; simmer for an hour, skim it very well and sift in a 
sieve for use. 

Kidney (jrRAVY.—lime, an hour and three-quay^ters.— Slice 
four kidneys, cut them into pieces, and dredge them with flour; 
put them into a stewpan with two ounces and a half of butter, 
a few sweet herbs and half an onion. Shake these over the 
fire for six or eight minutes, and then add about a pint of 



56 HOW TO COOK. 

water. Let it iiumier for an hour and three quarters, skimming 
it carefully ; strain the gravy and set it by for use. This gravy 
can be made from one beef kidney, instead of four sheep's 
kidneys. 

To Pickle Mushrooms.— Take button mushrooms; rub and 
clean them with flannel and salt; throw some salt over them, 
and lay them in a stewpan with mace and pepper. While the 
liquor comes from them, keep shaking them well till the whole 
is dried into them again ; then pour in as much vinegar as will 
cov^r them; warm them on the fire, and turn them into a jar. 

Mushrooms prepared in this manner are excellent, and will 
keep for two years. 

Pickled Walnuts.— When they will bear a pin to go into 
them, place in a brine of salt and water boiled and strong 
enough to bear an egg on it, being quite cold first. It must be 
well skimmed while boiling. Let them soak six days, then 
change the brine ; let them stand six more ; then drain them 
and put them into a jar ; pour over them a pickle of the best 
white wine-vinegar, with a good quantity of pepper, pimento, 
ginger, mace, cloves, mustard seeds and horseradish, all boiled 
together, but cold. To every hmidred of walnuts put six 
spoonfuls of mustard seed and two or three heads of shalot. 
Keep them six months. 

Common Puff Paste.— Put one pound of gifted flour on the 
slab, or in an earthen basin; make a hollow in the center, work 
into it a quarter of a pound of lard and half a teaspoonful of 
salt. When it is mixed through the flour, add as much cold 
water as will bind it together; then strew a little flour over the 
pasteboard d table; flour the rolling-pin, and roll out the j^aste 
to half an inch in thickness ; divide half a pound of butter in 
three parts, spread one evenly over the paste, fold it up, dredge 
a little flour over it and the paste-slab, or table, roll it out 
again, spread another portion of the butter over it, roll it out 
again, and so continue until all the butter is used; roll it out 
to a quai'ter of an inch in thickness for use. 

Very Rich Short Crust,— Break ten ounces of batter into 
a pound of flour, dried and sifted: add a pinch of salt and two 
ounces of loaf sugar rolled fine. Make it into a very smooth 



HOW TO COOK. 



57 



paste, as light as possible, with two well-beaten eggs, and suf- 
ficient milk to moisten the paste. 

An Antidote for Tobacco.— Trask, the anti-tobacco phil- 
anthropist, says that gentian root coarsely ground, chewed 
well, and the saliva swallowed, will cure the appetite for to- 
bacco, if its use is persisted in for a few weeks. Take as much 
of it after each meal, or oftener, as amounts to a common quid 
of "fine cut" or "cavendish." 

Indelible Ink. — An excellent ink of this kind may be pre- 
pared by rubbing up one drachm of analine black with a mixt- 
ure of sixty drops of concentrated hydrochloric acid, and one 
and one half ounce of alcohol. The resulting deep blue liquid 
is then to be diluted with a hot solution of one and one-half 
drachms of gum arable in six ounces of water. This ink does 
not corrode a steel pen, and is affected neither by concentrated 
mineral acids nor by strong lye. If the analine black solution 
be diluted with one and one half ounces of shellac, dissolved 
in six ounces of alcohol, instead of with gum water, an analine 
black is obtained, which, after being applied to wood stained 
black, brass or leather, is remarkable for its extraordinary 
deep black color. 

French Loaf Cake. — Two cups of white sugar, one scant 
cup of butter, one cup of sweet milk, three heaping cups of 
flour, three eggs, two teaspoon fuls cream of tartar, one tea- 
ppoonful soda. Put sugar, butter, eggs, (not previously beat- 
en), soda, and cream of tartar all together, beat to a froth; add 
the milk, beating well, flavor with lemon extracts; add 
the flour gradually, pour into a cake-tin lined with buttered 
paper, sprinkle a little powdered sugar over the cake before 
baking. It is well to cover it when first putting in the oven, 
in order not to harden the top too soon. 

Ginger Biscuits.— -Eight ounces of flour, four ounces of 
butter, four ounces of loaf sugar; yolks of three eggs and 
some ground ginger. 

Beat the butter to a cream before the fire, add the flour by 
degrees, then the sugar, pounded and sifted and a flavoring 
to taste of ground ginger, and mix the whole with the yolks 
of three well beaten eggs. When thoroughly mixed, drop the 



58 HOT'/ TO COOK. 

biscuit mixture on buttered paper, a sufficient distance froiri 
each other, to allow the biscuits to spread, and bake them a 
light color in a rather slow oven. 

Gooseberry Tart. — Cut off the tops and tails from a quart 
of gooseberries; put thein into a deep pie dLsh with five or six 
ounces of good moist sugar; line the edge of the dish with short 
crust; put on the cover, ornament the edges and top in the 
usual manner, and bake in a brisk oven. Serve wii-h boiled 
custard, or a jug of cold cream. 

Fig Cake.— Two cups of sugar, one of butter, one of cold 
water, with a teaspoonful of soda dissolved in it; three cups 
of raisins, chopped fine, cinnamon and nutmeg, four eggs, one 
pound of figs; use the figs whole, covering them well with the 
cake to prevent burning. Bake in layers, frosting between 
each layer. Make as stiff as pound cake. Cut with a very 
sharp knife to prevent crumbling. This recipe makes two 
loaves. 

Bread Pancakes. — Time, five mimites. — Soak pieces of stale 
bread in water until quite soft; drain through a sieve, then 
rub the bread through a colander. To a quart add three eggs 
and milk enough to make a soft batter. 

COMMO-s Pascakes.— Time, five minutes.— Beat three eggs, 
and stir them into a pint of milk; add a pinch of salt, and suf- 
ficient flour to make it into a thick, smooth batter; fry them 
In boiling fat, roll them over on each side, drain and serve 
them very hot, with lemon and sugar. 

Arrowroot Fritters.— Put two pints of milk, in a good 
sized stewpan, over the fire until it boils; have ten ounces of 
nrrowroot ready mixed, and stir it into the milk as 
quickly as possible; add a little vanilla and yolks of eight eggs, 
the sugar the last. Stir it for about twent}'- minutes over a 
quick fire, then put it into a deep cutlet pan, and bake it about 
ten minutes in a quick oven. When it is quite cold, cut out 
the fritters with a round cutter, and egg and bread crumb 
them, glaze and send them up quite hot. 

Pickled Peaches.— Nine pounds peaches, three pounds 
pugar, three quarts good cider vinegar. Peel the peaches, put 
two cloves in each peach, then put them with the sugar and 



HOW TO COOK. 59 

vinegar in a porcelain lined kettle; cook from five to ten min- 
utes. Add a little whole allspice. 

Chicken Salad. — Boil a chicken; do not chop very fine; cut 
up one bunch of celery, tfie size of a cent ; to make the dress- 
ing, wash smooth the yolk of a hard-boiled egg, one teaspoon- 
f ul of salt, one or two tablespoonfuls of made mustard ; stir in 
slowly four tablespoonfuls of sweet oil, then two tablespoon- 
fuls of vinegar; pour over the chicken and celery. 

To Pickle Cabbage.— Quarter them till they are thin 
enough to let the vinegar strike through; put them down in 
layers with spices, salt, and vinegar; scald your vinegar as 
often as is necessary to make them tender. 

Crullers. — Six eggs, six tablespoonfuls powdered sugar, 
six tablespoonfuls melted butter, a wineglass of brandy, and 
a little nutmeg; flour as for doughnuts. Roll thin and cut into 
fanciful shapes with a jagging iron. 

Gelatine Frosting.— One teaspoonful gelatine, two table- 
spoonfuls of cold water; when the gelatine is soft, one table- 
spoonful of hot water. When entirely dissolved, add one cup 
of powdered sugar, and beat it while it is yet warm, until 
white and light; lemon to taste. This frosts one sheet of 
cake. 

Raspberry Jam. — Allow a pound of sugar to each pound of 
fruit; press them with a spoon in an earthen dish, add the 
sugar, and boil all together for fifteen minutes. 

Bavarian Cream. — Dissolve half a package of gelatine in 
one quart of boiling milk; stir until it is dissolved, then add a 
pint of cream, and sweeten to taste. Add three tablespoonfuls 
of extract of vanilla. Let it cool a little, stirring it occasion- 
ally ; then put it into custard cups, or in a mold, and leave it 
in a cold place till ready to use. 

Candied Fruits. — Preserve the fruit, then dip it in sugar 
boiled to candy thickness; afterwards dry it. Grapes ma'y be 
thus dipped uncooked, and then dried. Or fruit may be taken 
from the syrup when preserved, rolled in powdered sugar, and 
afterwards set on a sieve to dry. 

Plain Plum Cake.— Beat six ounces of tutter to a cream, 
to which add six well-beaten eggs; work in one pound of flour. 



^ HOW TO COOK. 

and half a pound of sifted loaf sugar, half a pound of currants 
and two ounces of candied peels; mix well together, put it 
into a buttered tin, and bake it in a q^ick oven. 

GiXGER SA^APS.-Work a quarter of a pound of butter into 
a pound of fine flour, then mix it with a half pound of molas- 
ses, a quarter of a pound brown sugar, and one tablespoonful 
each of gmger and caraway seeds. Work it all well together 
and form it into cakes not larger then a crown piece; place 
them on a baking tin in a moderate oven, when they will be 
dry and crisp. 

HoMixY MvYFms.-Time, fifteen minntes.-Ta^,e two cups 
of fine hominy, boiled and cold; beat it smooth; stir in three 
cups of sour milk, half a cup of melted butter, two teaspoon- 
fuls of salt, and two tablespoonfuls of white sugar; then add 
three eggs well beaten, on© teaspoonful of soda dissolved in hot 
water, and one large cup of flower; bake quickly. 

Freed BREAD.-rtme, ten minutes.-Beat four eggs very 
light; add three tablespoonfuls of brown sugar, a little grated 
nutmeg, a tablespoonful of orange or rose water, and a quart 
ot milk. Cut into slices, an inch thick, a stale loaf of bread- 
remove the crust from the sides, and cut each slice into halves' 
Butter your, frying-pan, and when hot, lay in your bread 
(dipped m the custard), and brown on both sides. Lay them 
in a hot dish, and sprinkle over them a little loaf sugar. 

Swedish JELLY.-Cover a knuckle of veal with water add 
a small onion and a carrot, and let it boil until the meat is 
ready to fall off the bone. Take the meat and hash it fine and 
return it to the liquor after it is strained, and give it another 
boil until it jellies. Add salt, pepper, the juice and rind of 
a lemon, cut fine, and then pour into a form. Put it into a 
cold place. It makes a nice dish for lunch or tea. If the 
knuckle of veal is large, use three quarts of water; if small 
two quarts; let it boil slowly three or four hours, or until it 
is reduced to about half the quantity of water put in. 

New England Pancakes.-MIx a pint of cream, five 
spoonfuls of fine flour, seven yolks and four whites of eggs 
and a ve^-y little salt; fry them ^ery thin in fresh butter, and 
between each strew sugar and cinnamon. Send up six or eight 
at once. • 



The 5 Cent 

WIDE AWAKE^ LIBRARY. 

The Best Stories by the Best Authors, Both 
Humorous and Sensational, 



PRICE 5 CENTS A COPY. 
READ THE LIST. 






1 Tom Brown's Schooldays. 

2 The Pirate. 

3 Robinson Crusoe. 

4 Jack Sheppard. 

5 Sinbad, the Sailor. 

6 Peter Simple. 

7 Pantomime Joe. 

8 Snarlevow, the Dog Fiend. 

9 Aladdin and the Wonderful 

Lamp. 

10 Poor Jack. 

11 Tommy Bounce. 

12 Shorty; or, Kicked Into Good 

Luck. 

13 The Devil's Diamond. 

14 Shorty in Luck. 

15 Dick Dauntless. 

16 Skinny, the Tin Pedler. 

17 Dick Turpin. 

18 Gulliver's Travels. 

19 Ali Baba and the Forty Thieves 

20 The Mulcahv Twins. 

21 Jacob Faithful.* 

22 Oliver Optic's Engin'rSk'tch's- 

23 Oliver Twist. 

24 The Image of His Father, 

25 Gentleman George. 

26 Gentlem'n George and His Pal 

27 The Dead Boxer. 

28 Harry Hale. 

29 One of the Boys of New York. 

30 The King of Diamonds. 

31 The Four Knaves. 
82 The Pirate Doctor. 
m Jonathan Wild. 

34 The Pirate Chief. 

35 The Smuggler of St. Malo. 

36 Dick Clinton, the Masked High- 
« wayman. 

ST Josephine; or, the Maid of the 
Gulf. 

88 Ned Scarlet, the Daring High- 

wavman. 

89 Paul Jones. 

40 The Hangman of Newgate. 

41 The Black Mask. 

42 Dot Boy Fritz. 

48 Demon of the Deep, 

44 Mark Graham. 

45 Starboard Jack. 

46 San Francisco Bob. 

47 Tom, Dick, and the -« 

48 Yankee Privateer. 

49 The Rover's Oath. 
eO Corkey. 

51 Dick Llghtheart. 



52 Dick Lightheart's Trials. 

53 Dick Lightheart's Triumphs. 

54 Captain Havvke. 

55 The Boss Boy. 

56 Shorty, Jr.; or, the Son of Hii; 

Dad. 

57 The Pirate Schooner. 

58 The Gold Hunters. 

59 The Pirates of America. 

60 The Pirate Cutter. 

61 The Black Pirate. 

62 Captain Kyd; or, the Pirate «(»' 

Hell Gate. 

63 Will Waffles. 

64 Three Fingered Jack. 

65 The Sea King. 

66 Life in the Red Brigade. 

67 Billy Bo's wain. 

68 The Devil on Two Sticks. 

69 The Wild Robber. 

70 The Highwayman's Fate. 

71 The Lighthouse Murder. 

72 The Assassin's Doom, 

73 The Pirate of the Shoals, 

74 The Robbers of the Rhine. 

75 Jack Harkaway's Schooldays. 

76 Harkaway Afloat. 

77 Harkaway Among the Savages. 

78 Harkaway's Escape. 

79 Harkaway at Oxford. 

80 Harkaway and the Black Band 

81 Harkaway and the Brigands. 

82 Harkaway and the Spy. 

83 Harkaway Trapped. 

84 Harkaway and the Italians. 

85 Dick Lightheart at Sea. 

86 Dick Lightheart Around tb9 

World. 

87 Dick Lightheart in London. 

88 Dick Lightheart's Victory. 

89 The Island of Mystery. 

90 Detective Dan. 

91 Claude Duval. 

92 Claude and his Pals. 

93 Duval and Dick. 

94 Claude in a Fix. 

95 Duval Betraypd, 

96 On the Scaffold. 

97 The Highwayman's BId«, 

98 Claude Duval's Dead Shot, 

99 Bonnie Black Bess. 

100 Claude in Jail. 

101 Duval's Life Struggle^ 

102 Claude and the Nuns, 

103 Duval in the Cloistfv-- 

104 Claude and the Ladf, 



i05 Duval on Hand. 

106 Claude and the Spy. 

107 Duval In Chains, 

108 Claude's Bride. 

109 Duval on the Road. 

110 Claude's Duel. 

111 Duval and the Malden, 

112 Claude in the Toils. 

113 Duval and the Casket. 

114 Claude and his Chum. 

115 Duval in PeriL 

116 Clande at Bay. 

117 Duval and Luke. 

113 Death of Claude Duval. 

119 Jack Harkaway and His Son's 

Adventures Around the 
World. 

120 Harkaway and His Son Home- 

ward Bound, 

121 Jack Rushton. 

122 On and off the Stage. 
12:S The Bush Boys. 

124 The Rival Schools. 

125 Frank, the Fisher Boy, 

126 Young Tom Rodman. 

127 Shorty, Jr., on His Ear. 

128 Fred Spangle. 

129 The Young Tragedian. 

130 Clarence Rhett. 

131 Paddy JIcGroarty. 
182 Brian the Brave. 

133 Yank, Shank & Co. 

134 Master of Himself. 

135 Jim Jams; or. Jack of all Trades 

136 The Boy Bohemian. 

137 The Mysterious Messenger. 

138 Burt, the Detective. 

139 " 12;" or. Tracked to Death, 

140 The Young Ventriloquist. 

141 Denver Dick. 

142 Dick Daring. 

143 Glpsv Blanche. 

144 The Boy Clown. 

145 Three Yankee Churoo. 

146 Unlucky Tom. 

147 Lathy. 

148 The Sea Fiends, 

149 Under the Ocean. 

150 Andy Handy. 

151 Red Leary. 

152 Daniel Boone. 
15:^ Hale and Hearty, 

154 Tim of the Mall Train. 

155 Out with Stanley. 

156 Mad Maurice. 

157 Shorty and the Count. 

158 The Wharf Boyso 

159 Big Silas. 

160 Nip and Flip. 

161 The Four Jacks. 

162 The Miser of Harlem. 

163 Young Harkaway and the Pi- 

rates. 

164 Harkaway's Triumph. 

165 Harkaway on Magic Island. 

166 Ferret, the Little Detective, 



ICT The Man of Many Faces. 

168 Harkaway's Peril. 

169 " to the Rescue. 

170 " the Magician. 

171 Reckless Rob. 

172 Luke Lander, the Lion Hunten 

173 Rattler, the Scrapegrace. 

174 The Dwarf King; or. the Ad. 

ventures of Harry Bluff. 

175 The Gallant Middy. 

176 Harkaway, the Avenger. 

177 The Rival Crusoes. 

178 Harkaway in Australia, 

179 " and the Convicts. 

180 " and the Bushrangers, 

181 Chased Around the World, 

182 The Detective's Mistake. 

183 Chips and Chin Chin. 

^^ *v J' " " Among 
the Mormons. 

185 Chips and Chin Chin's Advent- 

ures With Indians, 

186 Chips and Chin Chin In Omaha 

187 •• ♦• " " "St.Louis 

188 " " •• " •' N. Yorls 

189 Jack Hawley, 

190 Two Boston Boys. 

191 Frank Martin, the Young Rajah 

192 The Locksmith's Apprentice, 

193 The Charmers & the Charmed. 

194 The Red Circle. 

195 The ^'emesls; or, Tracked ta 

Their Doom. 

196 Tom Trump. 

197 The Boy Pilot. 

198 Satan's Tree. 

199 The School on Wheels. 

200 A Lightning Flash. 

201 The Mystery of a Minute. 

202 Bound To Be An Actor. 

203 One of the Boys. 

204 The Mystery of the Red Rlvee 

205 The Masked Messenger. 

206 The Prairie Phantom. 

207 The Young Engineer. 

208 Fighting Against Odds. 

209 Harry Halsey, 
210DonnellO'Gig. 

211 The Burglars of New York. 

212 Jerry O'Keefe's Crimes. 

213 Dare Devil Detective. 

214 Game to the Death. 

215 Kickapoo Joe. 

216 The Struggle for a Mine, 

217 Stump. 

218 Stump at SchooL 
219 Stump at Sea. 

220 Stump and Jack Hawser. * 

221 Stump's Rackets Below Decks. 

222 Stump and his Chums Homo 

ward Bound. 

223 Three of a Kind. 

224 Charlie, Mike, and Don, 

225 Thirteen. 

226 The Brotherhood of Death. 
2^7 Tricks. 



For Sale by all Newsdealers, or Sent Post Paid o» 
Receipt of Price, 5 Cents a Copy. Address 

FEANK TOUSEY, Publish>»: 

(Box 2T30.) 180 WlULLtM Stbbjct. N. •». 



228 Under the Gallows 

229 Adrift on a Floating Island 

230 Fred Hazle 

231 Shot in the Dark 

232 Doonle Crandall 

233 Meta. the Girl Crusoe 

234 Teddy Doyle ^ ^ . .;,. 

235 A Trip to the Center of the 

Earth 

236 Drifting Harry 

237 Rory the Smasher 

238 An Irish Boy's LucK 

239 Behind the Bars 

240 The Boy Convict 

241 Tornado Tim 

242 The Boy Avenger 

243 Jaclc the Joker 

244 The Irish Robber's Apprentice 

245 Fighting His Way . 

246 A Knight of the Brush 

247 Fritz, the Tumbler 
243 Iron-Knuclcled Ted 
249 Dare-Devil Diclc 

25<) The Dock Boy of New YorK 

251 Captain Cartouche 

252 The Gipsy Boy's Vengeance 

253 The Boy Miners 

254 Water-Duck Jim, _ . 

255 The King of the Swimming Gang 
356 The Flying Ship of the Pacific 

257 The Adventures of Harry 

Franco 

258 Cripple Charley 

259 The Adventures of Two Tramps 

260 Plucky Jimmy 

261 The Blacksmith's Apprentice 

262 Jumping Joe 

263 Jack Gordon 

264 Mat McCarthy's Fortune 

265 London Bob 

266 An English Boy in America 

267 Scotty the Terrier 

268 Philadelphia Dave 

269 Billy the Boxer 

270 Cadger Con 

271 The False Detective 

272 Hlghfalutin' Jim 

273 Charley Lance 

274 A Search for a Missing Man 

275 Commodore Rip- Rap 

276 Teddy O'Flynu 

277 The Shadow Ship 

278 Lone Jack 

279 Blue Grass Bob ^ ^ , 

280 The Wild Rider of Old Kentuck 

281 Shoo-Fly, or. Nobody's Moke 

282 Shoo-Fly at School 

283 Shoo-Fly in Love 

284 Slioo-Fly the Gymnast 

285 Sharkey, the young Robber of 

the West 

286 Dashing Bob 

287 Johnny Burgoo 

288 Reliable Joe , ^ , 

289 The Yankee Claude Duval 

290 Midshipman Ned ^, ^^ ., 

291 The Cruise of the Old Ironsides 

292 Jack Feeney 

293 The Young Irish Brigand 

294 Lance the Lion 

295 Tipton Biue ^ , 

296 Freeaud-JSftsy Ned 



297 True Blue; or. Righted at Last 

298 That Boy of Ours 

299 Tom on His Muscle 

300 Bob Short; or, One of Our Boys 

301 Percy of the Strong Arm 

302 Jack Manly 

303 Freebooters of California 

304 Captain Merrit|and His Rangers 

305 Nero, the Hunchback 

306 Bell-Ringer of, Trinity 

307 Harry Harley 

308 The Arctic Queen 
809 Harry Fitzroy 

310 The Heart of Oak 

311 Tlie School on the Sea 

312 The Golden Island 

313 Among the Savages 

314 The Specter Schoolboy 

315 Headsman of Old London Bridge 

316 Harold Forrester 

317 Mat o' the Mist 

318 Eveline Duke 

319 Mark Bradley 
SM Driven to Sea 

321 Routing the Redskins 

322 Tom Fox . „ ^ j. *- 

323 Adventures of a Phil. Detectiv* 

324 Richard Savage 

325 Mystery of a Mis spent Life 

326 Double Six 

327 Dominoes of Death 

328 Gipsy Bess „, , 

329 The Queen of the Highway 

330 Rodolf, the Traitor 

331 The Boy Cavaliers 

332 Young Captain Kidd 

33:3 The Secret of Wizard Lake 

334 The Prairie Witch . 

335 The Hunters of the Silver Trail 

336 Traveling With Barnum 

337 Tln-ee Dashing Hussars 

338 Pat O'Corker 

339 The Diamond Eye _ 

340 Jack of the Naval Brigade 
841 The Zulu's Daughter 

342 The Haunted House of Deaa- 

man's Corner 

343 Sir Guy's Secret 

344 Fortunes of an Acrobat 

345 For the Green Flag of Old Ire- 

land 
?46 Kathleen O'Sliaughnessy 

347 Tom, the Midshipman 

348 Out with Captain Cook 

349 Every Inch a Sailor 

350 Ralph the Liglit Dragoon 

351 The Brothers in Arms 

352 Jack of Cheapside , ^ , _ 

353 The Green Banner of Islam 

354 The Colonel's Daughter 

355 Walter's Secret Tr„«„»f 
856 The Outlaws of Berkeley Forest 

357 Rpd Spear the Outlaw 

358 The House of a Hundred Terrors 

359 Oswald the Unknown 

360 Adventures of a ¥vee Lanca 

361 The Treacherous Knight 

362 Young Harkaway and His Boy 

Tinker 

363 Tinker's Man, Bogey 

^364 Young Harkaway in Spaln^ 



THE ARM CHAIR. 

A LAEGE, NEW, 16-PAGE 

ILLUSTRATED FAMILY PAPER. 
JUST ISSUED! - - IT CONTAINS THE 

BEST STORIES by THE FINEST AUTHOBS in the WORLD, 

and for general typography excels anything in family literature ever 
offered to an admiring public. 

ITS ILLUSTRATIONS ARE SUPERB, 

and the paper is edited by one who has made this class of journal- 
ism a life-long study. Although it is generally said tliat 
cheap articles are not good, we and our 100,000 
subscribers in this case repudiate that 
statement, and join in proclaiming 

THE ARM CHAIR 
WITHOUT AN EQUAL IN THE WORLD. 

We offer the paper at a rate that places it in reach of all classes, 

poor and rich. 
g^"You can have the paper sent to any address for 1 j^ear by for- 
warding us $3, or $1.50 for 6 months, or 75 cents for 3 months. 

SAMPLE COPIES FREE TO ALL! 

Send your address on a postal card, so 3'ou may get a copy and 

judge of the many qualifications of the "World's 

Favorite Family Paper, 

THE ARM CHAIR. 

BJF"/br sale by all newsdealers, or sent, post paid, on receipt of pricc^^H 
Address 

FRANK TOUSEY, Publisher, 

(P. O. Box 2730) 180 ^VilJiam Street, N. Y. 



Bade numbers of The Arm Chair are never out of print. If you 

cannot obtain tliem from your newsdealer, send direct to 

us and you will receive them by return mail. 



9 



T] 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 



BOYS OF I 




014 485 540 1 



The Best Sw „ _ _.^_,_ 
FOR THE YOUNG 

EVER PUBLISHED. 

It Contains 
The Best STORIES, 

ILLUSTRATIONS, 

SKETCHES, 

SONGS, 

PUZZLES, 

ETC., ETC., 
OF ANY 

BOYS PAPER 

PUBLISHED IN THE WORLD. 

For Sale by All Newsdealers. 

Sample Sent from Office on Receipt of 2-«ent Postage 
Stamp. 

Address 

FRANK TOUSEY, 

180 William Street, N. Y. 



cv 



