4. 



:^4 



/ ■> 



I- 



iTl 



iM. 




^^ 




r 



InlL 



'Cl-yt, 



(fii-^^ 







">>' 



p 



i 



f-' 



i^ 1 



V 







\ 



THE HOME COOK BOOK 



TRIED, TESTED, PROVED. 



x»»w m v m m»0»^0' m 



THE 



Home Cook Book 



COMPILED BT 

LADIES OF TORONTO AND OTHER CITIES AND TOWNS 
IN CANADA, 



^oxanit : 

ROSE-BELFORD PUBLISHING COMPANY, 

1881, 



Entered aceordinK to Act of the F&rl{amnnt of OanadH, in Vho yonr 
one thousand eight hundred and aAVAnty-Beven, by Brlpom) 
EaoTHERS, in the Office of the Minister of Agricaltur*. 



PxniTBD AND BOVHD 
BT 

HCHTBR, BOSB •0?. 
TOKOJCIO, 



A LETTER TO THE PUBLISHER& 



My Dear Sms, 

I have read your Cook-Book, and now I 
know how it is done. The mystery is solved. The ques- 
tion which puzzled King Greorge the Third is no longer 
an enigma. I know now how the apples get into the 
dumplings, how to baste a chicken, make a pork pie, and 
fry dough-nuts. I have read your book carefully, and can 
say it is full of good things. I can only compare it to old 
Dr. Kitchiner's recipe-book. Dr. Sir Theodore May erne's 
ArchiTnagirus Anglo-Gallicus, which you may remem- 
ber on account of the title. A badly cooked dinner, the 
records of crime will shew, has caused nearly haK the 
suicides of the nation, and matrimonial infelicities may 
be traced to the same direct cause. We have no Schools 
of Cookery, as you know, in our Dominion, where oui 
young ladies may learn that art which the ancients 
deemed second only to medicine. The Home Cook-Book 
is intended, as far as I can learn from . a penisal of its 
contents, to supply the place of the Academy. A man ia 
not necessarily a gourmand or ^n ^dei-man because he 



iv A LETTER TO THE PUBLISHERS. 

enjoys a good dinner. Many persons are blessed with a 
taste for gastronomies, and can descant as fluently and as 
pleasantly on this science as others can of the theories of 
Huxley or the " Social Studies " of Herbert Spencer. Poets 
have sung of the stomach and of good eating. Novelists 
have lingered lovingly over the matutinal meal, and even 
the historian has not neglected to chronicle events inti- 
mately associated with generous living. The subject of 
cookery is of national importance. The Scotsman dis- 
cusses his haggis, the Englishman his chop, the French- 
man his pSrt^, and the American would be uncomfortable 
all day Sunday, if his plate of beans and brown bread 
were forgotten. In Canada proper, we have no national 
dish yet, but in Quebec, in the old French parishes, our 
friends enjoy a mysterious black pudding, which savoury 
compound is fearfully and wonderfully made. I say it is 
mysterious to me, because the Home Cook-Book does not 
tell me how it is made. I sometimes wonder if it really 
is made at all. I think it must grow somewhere in Vau- 
dreuil or Longueuil or St. Hyacinthe. That pudding and 
French Canadian cheese are triumphs of the culinaiy art. 
How lonely the world would be without them — and 
Scotch haggis ! Do you know I sometimes feel glad that 
St. Andrew's day only comes once a year — ^a little haggis 
goes a long way ! 

The volume you have sent me is not only, in my 
opinion, an admirable receipt-book, but it is a perfect 
companion of the housewife. The hints, suggestions, and 



axis 



Home Cook Book. 



HOUSEKEEPING. 



Word of grace to women ; word that mates her the 
earthly providence of her family, that wins gratitude and 
attachment from those at home, and a good report of 
those that are without. Success in housekeeping adds 
credit to the woman of intellect, and lustre to a woman's 
accomplishments. It is a knowledge which it is as dis- 
creditable for any woman to be without as for a man not 
to know how to make a living, or how to defend himself 
when attacked. He may be ever so good an artist, ever 
BO polished a gentleman ; if deficient in these points of 
self-preservation you set him down for a weakling, and 
his real weight in society goes for very little. So, no 
matter how talented a woman may be, or how useful in 
the church or society, if she is an indifferent house- 
keeper it is fatal to her influence, a foil to her l^jiliiancy 
and a blemish in her garments. 



10 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

Housekeeping ought not to be taught in classes and by 
professors ; though when early training is lacking they 
may be of use. It is one of those things to be imbibed 
without effort in girlhood, instead of being taken up at 
marriage and experimented on with varying certainty for 
the rest of one's natural life. There is no earthly reason 
why girls, from eight to eighteen, should not learn and 
practice the whole round of housekeeping, from the first 
beating of eggs to laying carpets and presiding at a din- 
ner party, at the same time that they go on with music, 
languages, and philosophy. The lessons would be all the 
better learned if, instead of sitting down at once out of 
school hours, the girl was taught to take pride in keeping 
her room nice, or in helping about such work as canning 
fruit for the season, hanging clean curtains, or dusting 
every day. The wealthiest women of the oldest families 
in society are not above seeing to these things themselves, 
and they know how it should be done. They were bred 
to it as part of a lady's duty. But if a woman finds her- 
self ignorant or half taug]]t how to keep house, there is 
nothing so difficult to learn that she may not be proficient 
in a year or two at most. An intelligent woman will suc- 
ceed in most duties at first trying. Housekeeping is an 
exact science, and works like the multipHcation table if 
one only has learned it. But if one is shaky in figures 
how is he ever to keep accounts ? There is no chance 
about housekeeping. If Mrs. Smith's sitting room is 
always neat and fresh, it is because she sweeps it with tea 
leaves, and sponges the carpet with ox gall, and dusts it 
with a damp cloth, and keeps a door mat on the porch, 
and sends the boys back every time to use till they get the 



HOUSEKEEPINd. H 

taLit of keeping clean. While you hang a newspapej 
before the what-not and throw one over the work table, 
sweep with a soft broom, butting the broad side of it at 
every stroke against the moulding ; instead of carrying 
all the dust clean from the crevice next the wall by one 
lengthwise sweep with the corner of the broom, you 
blow the dust off some places and give a hasty rub at 
others; pass the stove with a touch from the hearth 
brush instead of blacking it, and let the boys track in 
mud and dust enough to deface a new carpet its first 
season, while you take it out in scolding — which was 
never known to brighten rooms yet. So, when your 
feather cake fails, though you made it precisely by the 
rule which the other day came out like bleached sponge, 
there is a very good reason for it, you did not stir it as 
much as the first time, or you beat it a httle too long and 
lost the best effervescence of your soda, or your baking 
powder had been left open a few minutes at a time on 
baking days and lost strength. By practicing the same 
recipe carefully all these and other points fix themselves 
in your mind, so that success is certain. Those clever 
cooks, whose success is so much a matter of instinct, 
observe all these points unconsciously each time, and 
lay it to luck ! There's no such word in housekeeping. 
This labour does not only mean keeping things clean, 
and having plenty to eat. It goes from the outside of 
the house to the inside of the travelling-bags of those 
who leave it. The mistress must observe the outside of 
her house regularly; on Saturday is the most convenient 
time to see if window- blinds need washing, if the catches 
are in repair, if the shades inside hang straight, and tlia 



12 YBB HOME COOS l^OOE. 

curtains drape well, if the walks, steps, and piazzas are 
neat, and the door knobs and paint in order, making a 
note of every want, and having it attended to at once. 
Dexterity with tools is very convenient to any one, and I 
have known accomplished women who would set a pane 
of glass, put on a door knob, and hang a gate in the best 
style. One of the valued contributors to the New York 
press is a woman who reads Horace in Latin, and 
Bastiat's political economy, makes point-lace and em- 
broiders beautifully, who at the gold mines with her 
husband built the chimney to her house, and finished 
most of the interior with her own hands. A little care, 
weekly, keeps a place in that bright order that so attracts 
and welcomes one at sight. It looks as if whole peo^jle 
lived in it, with live sensibilities and intelligence. In- 
doors the same spirit is reflected. The bell-pull never is 
left for weeks after it gets loose, the gas burners are never 
suffered to leak, or grow dim ; the kerosene lamps are 
large enough to give good light, and of the best pattern 
for safety, and for the eye. The stoves are the open 
"Fireside" kind, the modern version of the old Franklin 
stoves — giving the ventilation and delight of an open fire, 
bm-ning either coal or wood, with bars and fender like a 
grate; yet, capable of being shut up as tightly as any 
base-burning heater by two tight fitting covers that may 
be removed and put away at pleasure. The health, the 
comfort, the luxury of such an addition makes up for 
many a deficiency beside. The carpet was well-chosen 
at first in small figure and warm colours of good quahty, 
whether Brussels or three-ply, and it looks well as long 
fts it lasts, and kept clean by shaking twice a year. 



HOUSEKEEPING. 18 

laid siraight and stretched smooth OTer a soft linmg, 
which saves the carpet and saves noise ; darned at 
the first break with wool, matching the pattern, it wUl 
not be shabby lq ten years. It is pleasant to have 
things last with the family, and grow to seem a part 
of it. The true sentiment of the sharp, genteel woman, 
was expressed by the housekeeper who "liked to 
have her carpets wear out so she could have new 
ones." She let lodgings to have company, and money 
to dress by, against her husband's wish, and her 
only dread was that of "settling down and having a lot 
of children with no theatres, no opera, nobody to see." 
The home feeling, the attachment that grows for the 
pleasant enduring objects of daily use is one of the rare 
plants of sentiment that the housekeeper does well to 
cherish. There should be care at first to have things 
agreeable and handsome as possible, that they need not 
be a daily eyesore, and there need be no reason for wish- 
ing them to wear out. Manufactures constantly add 
service to trade by placing better patterns in reach of 
moderate purses. Thus, the mottled carpets in oak and 
brown, ash and crimson, maroon and elm-leaf yellow, 
with borders to match, so admired in velvet and Brus- 
sels, are found in fine three-plys and ingrain, and in the 
newer Venetians of hemp and wool, like the old-fashion- 
ed stair carpet that lasts so long. A word for these new 
Venetians, which is on account of their artistic quality, 
likely to be overlooked, because they are so cheap. All 
the best colours and patterns of Brussels, in two shades, 
in mottled, moss or leaf designs, are afiorded in this 
carpet, which is durable as the conscience of ^ hous@« 



14 T&E HOUE OOOE BOOK. 

keeper could exact. Two rules are enough for the looki 
of a carpet ; choose small figures and avoid contrasts of 
colour. Small figures, however, have different mean- 
ings to different people. As a rule, a small figure is not 
more than three inches at most, any way across. Very, 
very few rooms there are, but look better with carpets 
of small design. Then the oil-cloth under the stove 
must match, if possible, and be bound with leather 
strips to keep the edge from getting unsightly. The 
woodbox or basket is covered with wool work on canvas, 
or applique of bright cloth on Turkish toweling, making 
a handsome bit of furniture. A scrap basket, with ap- 
plique border, and a bright lining, goes far toward keep- 
ing a room tidy. The mistress will try to have her 
rooms in keeping with the style by a few pieces of furni 
ture in the fashion of the day, a Turkish chair embroid- 
ered in wools, a straight-backed one in unbleached 
toweling and applique of crimson, blue, black and gold, 
a stand covered with velvet, or a home-made easel with 
the single good picture the house affords on it, a jar- 
diniere of titles or wickerwork in the window, or a 
bamboo lounge, things not expensive in themselves, yet 
lending a graceful air to quiet surroundings. As for 
chairs, sofas and lambrequins, artists have been insist- 
ing on chintz for the last ten years, and women have as 
steadily bought woollen reps, which the doctors tell us 
harbours dust, absorbs vitiated matter from the air, and 
is absolutely dangerous in disease from the contagion it 
holds. But women of the best taste, who like to have 
their rooms pretty, will choose chintz, when they can- 
not afford silk and satin, and often when they can, lo? 
its intrinsic beauty. 



HOUSEKEEPnia. 16 

It is of more account to have broad seats and deep 
cushions to chairs and sofas, than to have them covered 
with rich material. See that there are plenty of low seats 
in 3'our sitting-room, for much of the furniture seen is 
of very little use for rest and ease, points essential to 
the health and comfort of women and children. If a 
woman will only start with the intention of making her 
house comfortable, she will gain all the admiration she 
wants. There are many elegant rooms in private 
houses, where there are only one or two that come up to 
the idea of comfort. Now that is a very important word 
one that cannot be infringed on without losing health. 
The mistress of a house must see that it is ventilated 
from top to bottom, by having every window and the 
skylight, if there is one, open at least once a day — if 
possible when the sun is shining. She is responsible 
for the health of the household, and must allow no scent 
of decay, whether from vegetables or meat, barrels or 
refuse in the cellar, no slops anywhere about the prem- 
ises, no mouldering food in closets, no confined bed- 
. ooms or closets with old clothes or soiled linen to taint 
the air, no dead, musty smell in any room, however 
seldom used, no sickly smell escaping from rooms where 
there is illness. She must see that fires are started as 
early in the fall and kept as late in the spring as the 
weakest, chilliest of her family desires, for these slow 
chilly days take more life, and play more mischief with 
nerves and blood than she could bear to think of, could 
she see their effects. She must look after the clothing 
from a hygienic view, to see that her children and fam- 
ily are warm enough and cool enough, so warding q& 



i6 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

many an attack of cramps, coughs and neuralgia. Tha 
food must be of the best quality, and she muEt know that 
it is. It pays to give an extra shilling on the half barrel 
for selected potatoes and apples, as they go farther and 
make more muscle than poor ones, and don't poison 
anybody. Sharp scrutiny of eggs, meat, butter, and 
milk, is a benefit to others as well as her own family, 
by raising the standard of provisions, besides more direct 
gain. More disease comes into the world in the shape 
of tainted butter and milk, than any one dreama of but 
the doctors. If she gets the hygienic craze about food, 
don't let her carry it to the verge of confounding things 
"healthful" with things uneatable, for badly cooked 
eatmeal and graham "gems" are as distressing to deli- 
cate organisms as the richest mince pie and old cheese 
together. That slight sour tinge, which nobody noticed, 
in the home-made bread, that solid pudding, which yet 
was not quite rejected at dessert, are responsible for the 
bad breath of the children and the beginning of a sick 
headache in their elders. Never be satisfied with any 
but the nicest cooking, with variety enough to make 
your table a delight as well as a necessity. And don't 
let anybody lay it to you that you are pampering your 
family, and devoting yourself to a low sphere of action. 
You are doing no such thing, but are giving them strong, 
active bodies, steady nerves and tempers, and clear 
brains to meet their work with. By just so much 
as you neglect your part of the work, they will fail in 
theirs. You are the engineer to feed the fires, and 
keep the wheels oiled, and the whole family system 
depends on you. Don't dare to call such work lo\y* 



HOUSEKEEPINCf. 17 

There is a great work to be done in American kitchens. 
You may and ought to delegate as much to hired helpers 
as you can, but you must see that all is done as it should 
be. And one receipt for training service is given, that is 
the whole secret in a nut-shell. If child or servant leaves 
anything undone, or ill-done, don't scold, but insist on 
having it done immediately as it ought to be. Put the 
badly ironed shirts in the basket to be done over, have 
the house-girl who left the china badly washed, take it 
out of the closet and do it right, time after time, and let 
her get tired of doing her work over before you get tired 
of telling her. It is no harder to do work nicely than to 
half do it, indeed the careless way is the hardest. 
Finally, let your housekeeping be as Hberal as you can. 
"Whether well-to-do, or in narrow circumstances, you will 
hold that waste is a sin, against yourself and the world. 
By keeping strict account of every cent received and paid 
out, you can gauge yoiir means, laying by what is proper, 
but within that limit be good to yourseK and yours. Make 
the most of your money. It was no less a divine than 
the orthodox Doctor John HaU, who said that, of the two 
faults, he had far rather see people extravagant than 
penurious. Stint nowhere in cleanliness, light, and 
warmth, and let what you have be the best and prettiest 
for the cost. By these things men live, in body at least, 
and the soul is very dej)endent on its surroundings, or 
at any rate greatly assisted by favourable ones. It is an 
every-day wonder to see how little rich people get for their 
money ; the common-place houses, with so Httle that is 
light or striking or original in them, the dull service, the 
narrow roimd of enjoyments. In some sense housekeep< 



13 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

ing is making the most of life, bringing taste and variety 
into it, compassing difficult ends with invention. Those 
"Who disdain it lower themselves. Never think that any- 
thing is too good for you or yours that you can obtain. 
Everywhere there are people living in small common ways, 
because they are absolutely afraid of the expense or the 
notice which a pleasanter life would bring. Half the 
niceties of life involve only care to secure them, without 
a dollar of expense. Good manners cost nothing, good 
taste is saving, and good housekeeping actually makes 
money. Though this book is an aid to the ambitious 
housekeeper in one direction only, that is on the way to 
all the rest. People grow refined first in their eating. 
How is it that the most brilliant and cleverest nation in 
the world has also the best cooking ? Put these things 
together, and do your best ac-o.ordixkg to their result. 



TABLE TALK. 



In all attempts at refinement, one cardinal point 
should be kept in view — ^tliat manners -were made for 
men, not men for manners. Nice customs courtsey to 
great kings, and the greatest of these is convenience. 
Most rules will be found to serve convenience, and there 
is no good breeding where etiquette is not observed for 
this end, the order and comfort of all concerned, not for 
the sake of definuiing one's social position. When any 
one begins to study manners as a set of arbitrary rules, 
followed because every other desirable acquaintance 
does the same, politeness breeds a sort of pharisaism 
that the best bred persons look down on as supremely 
vulgar. If any mistress of a house looks here for rules 
that will aid her to affect a trifle more of style than her 
neighbours she will only be disappointed. If any 
woman wishes hints how to reduce her household to 
regularity and make her children neat and gentle in 
habits, it may be that she will not find this chapter in 
vain. 

Martinet regularity as to hours and minutes is no 
longer held the saving virtue in a household. The rule 
in many families keeps all the rest waiting for a meal 
U one is tardy. Modem custom both for the family an4 



20 THE HOME COOK BOOS. 

for dinner parties takes the sensible course of sitting 
down to table when the hour comes, and the principal 
part of those expected. No guest should feel affronted, 
if he is late, and finds the party at dinner, provided the 
indispensible care has been shown to keep his portion 
warm over dishes of hot water, by which they neither 
grow cold or are dried up in the oven. Order the table 
daUy with the same care as for a dinner party. This 
is the only way to insure success for hostess and ser- 
vants when one does come off, and gives mistress and 
waiter the luxury of getting used to nice style, so that 
it is just as easy as common ways, and no sudden vis- 
itor can put them out. Home tables do not always 
compare to advantage with those at the restaurant or 
club, and the housemother should see that a man hnds 
as careful service at home as he does anywhere else. 
Unlimited laundry work should be one of the mdul- 
gence's of one's own house, and it should be of the ut- 
most nicety. Why should it be too much to provide 
clean napkins and table-cloth daily at home as weU as 
at a hotel ? They would cost half an hour's extra work 
a day, and this is not too much for the refinement it 
gives. We should then expect to see the table spread 
with a snowy cloth, less starched than many house- 
keepers think necessary, finish and phancy given by 
plenty of wax in the starch, which will keep it clean the 
lon<^er. It should fall below the table half a yard all 
rouid, and be pinned up at the corners to keep it from 
the floor if necessary. For ceremonious occasions a 
common white cloth is laid under the table-cloth to 
protect a handsome table, keep the upper cloth from 



tABLE tALS. 21 

wearing, and because dishes make less noise when set 
down on it. 

For breakfast the coffee is set before the mistress, the 
cups and spoons ranged in their saucers in front of it, in 
two rows if there are many of them; the meat and 
plates, which should be warm, before the master ; salt, 
butter and castor at the corner to the right of both, 
head and foot, if the table is a large one, when two sets 
of these things will be convenient. Otherwise put them 
in the centre with the dishes in regular order around 
them, and relishes at the comers. To meet this order, 
it is a trifle to have dishes in pairs of the same size, and 
use them always together for different things. Fruit, 
whether berries, baked apples, or pears, is served first 
at breakfast, then oatmeal or wheaten grits, now found 
on every good table in cities at least, then meats and 
vegetables, with toast, hot cakes and coffee following. 
Hot rolls come wrapped in a napkin to keep them warm, 
griddle-cakes between two hot plates, and all meats 
covered. Baked potatoes are scrubbed ' with a maniUa 
brush, the ends cut off, rinsed twice, and eaten without 
paring, as the best flavour goes with the skin. This is 
the custom with the best society in this country and 
abroad. Eggs are washed with a cloth in cold water 
before boiling, and eaten in egg cups from the shell, 
chipping the small end off, or broken into larger glasses, 
or held in the napkin and eaten from the shell with 
entire good form, in either method. Where individual 
Bait-cellars are used they should be emptied after each 
meal, and the salt thrown away, that one person may 
not Use it after another, and they fthould be very small, 



82 tBE HOl^E OOOE BOOS. 

that there be less wasted. Butter should be piled round 
a lump of ice in little pats. To be very nice, as many 
have learned to like it from living abroad, it should be 
churned daily from perfectly sweet cream, worked with- 
out being touched by the hands or with water, and with- 
out a particle of salt. Thus it has the delicate flavour 
of cream at its best. Honey is especially a breakfast 
dehcacy, and so is maple syrup, which should be served 
in small saucers to be eaten with hot biscuit. A basket 
of crisp cakes, toasted rusk and crackers, will accom- 
pany coffee. 

For lunch the coloured table cloths may be used if 
ever, though their use is gradually di^pped because the 
colours do not wash well. White cloths with striped 
border in colours, or fine gray or unbleached damask, 
with napkins to match, assist the easy half-dress style 
of this repast. Cups of broth and thick chocolate, with 
light meats, hashes, croquettes, and stews. Salad and 
fruit are the staple variety, and rather more attractive 
than the cold meat, tea and cracker fare too often set 
apart for this hurried meal. Nowhere is negligence 
more annoying than at luncheon, and the cloth, glasses, 
and arrangements should be fastidiously neat to do 
away with the disagreeable feeling that everybody is too 
busy with drudgery to look after comfort. Insist that 
the girl who waits on the table has her hair neat, her 
hands washed, and a clean apron and collar on. An 
unkempt servant will spoil the best dinner appetite was 
ever sharp-set for. Ceremonious lunches mean an 
hour's visit with a meal, at which salads, shell-fish, 
chops, in paper fiills, ar^d broiled chicken play a part, 
with ices, tarts, and fancy cakes for dessert. Mixed 



TABLE TALK. 23 

drinks, like Begent's punch, or claret snp, -with ale and 
beer, are more in keeping at lunch than wines. These 
drinks are served from the side-board, the malt liquors 
in common goblets, the claret cup in tumblers, the 
punch in small cups. Beef tea is taken from cups held 
in small saucers, or in small Chinese bowls, with little 
saucers. The absence of all ceremony with the presence 
of light charming detail makes the luncheon attractive. 
For dinner, the family table wants to have less the air 
of hotel arrangements. More delicate napery and ware, 
whether the latter is only " seconds," or the finest egg- 
shell china ; lighter, more convenient, knives and forks, 
and heavier teaspoons, nice thin glass for drinking, 
thick cut crystal for sweets, with above all things a well 
kept cruet stand, make the difference in favour of home 
taste and home comfort. Keep all cracked and nicked 
ware from the table. Buy nothing that cannot be 
replaced without regret, but let each article be the best 
of its material. There is choice in the quality of stone 
ware and blown glass as well as in the shapes of each. 
The plainest is always most satisfactory of inexpensive 
things. The old fashion of furnishing dining-rooms in 
dark and heavy styles is reversed. The room is Hght, 
cheerful, waxm in colour, the chairs broad and substan- 
tial, the table lower than it used to be, two points which 
add sensibly to the comfort of those who use them. 
Have the chair feet shod with rubber tips which come 
for the purpose, or if on castors, cover the wheel with 
rubber so that they can move without noise. See that 
the room is Kght and especially warm, for people want 
comfoi-t at meals of all times, and they feel the cold 
more in sitting. 



DINNER ETIQUETTE. 



Directions for a ceremonious dinner naturally include 
those for the family table, as much form in serving 
being kept as may be convenient. The number of guests 
for a state dinner rarely exceeds twelve. 

Written invitations are always complimentary and in 
finer style than any other for small parties, but persons 
who entertain often, have engraved cards with blanks 
left for the name of guest, and date, for convenience. 
The following is a form adopted for dinner caids, a 
large, nearly square form being used : 

Mb. and Mbs — 

Eequest the pleasure of 

rinmpflTiy (namo.) 
-^^t*) and Ko. 



-o'clock. 



Tlie favour of an answer is requested* 
(or) R. s. V. p, 

For a gentleman's party the host's name alone 
appears on the invitation. An early answer must be 
sent in all cases, either to accept or decline. Not to do 
BO is the grossest rudeness. 



DINK3B ETIQUETTl, 25 

Invitations are always sent to persons in the same 
town by private messenger. Outside envelopes are 
necessary only when sent by mail to another city. No 
particular excuse need be sent. It is enough to say " Mr. 
and Mrs. — — regret that they are unable to accept 

Mr. and Mrs. kind invitation for the date 

named." When the dinner is to meet any particular 
guest or distinguished person, it is made known by the 
words, " To meet So-and-So," at the head of the invi- 
tation, or after the name of the invited person before 
the date. 

Written invitations are on note sheets of mill-finished 
paper with side fold, the fancy rough and the highly 
glazed papers of eccentric shapes and fold being out of 
use. The large envelope, nearly square, allows the 
sheet to be doubled once to fit. Cards have the same 
finish, neither dull nor highly polished. The cipher of 
Initials entwined is preferred to the monogram, and 
iccupies the comer of the note sheet. 

Guests arrive at any time during the half hour before 
dinner, and after leaving wraps in the dressing room, 
we met by the host and hostess at the door of the drawing 
foom. Introductions follow if the guest is a stranger. If 
the party is given in honour of any distinguished person, 
or favourite visitor, the other guests are brought up to 
him or her and presented. It is an omen of success for 
her evening if the hostess can make conversation general 
before dinner. To this end, have some novelty at hand, 
either in the shape of a personage whom everybody wants 
to meet, or a new picture, a grotesque group, a rare plant 
in the drawing-room, the latest spice of news to tell, or 

3 



26 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

a pretty girl to bring forward. Whatever the attraction, 
bring it on at once, to prevent that very stupid haK hour. 
At the hour, the servant comes in and tells the hostess 
dinner is served. The arranging of the guests has all 
been considered beforehand. If she wishes people to 
think her dinner a pleasant one, the hostess will see that 
the likings of her guests are consulted in pairing off for 
the table. Host and hostess intimate to the gentlemen 
whom they are to escort. " Mr. Lance, will you be kind 
enough to take Miss Dart in to dinner. Mr. Curtis, be 
so good as to see Mrs. Vane. Jermingham, I know you'd 
prefer Miss Olney, she's such a good listener. Mr. King, 
if you want to finish telling that story to Mrs. Capron, 
suppose you give her your arm," and so on. If the guest 
to be honoured is a lady, the host offers her his arm and 
goes out first, the hostess last. If a gentleman, he escorts 
the hostess, and the host follows the company. Before 
dinner is announced, after the guests have arrived, the 
host has the names of each person written on a card and 
laid on the plates at the place where he or she is to sit. 
This does away with that awkward moment when the 
guests are in the dining room waiting to be told their 
places. The method long used at public dinners is now 
adopted for private ones in the best circles. 

The standard size for dinner tables is four and-a-half 
feet wide, by any Jength desired. Bound tables for gen- 
tlemen's dinners, where aU are wanted in the conversa- 
tion are made seven feet across. Dining chairs should 
have cushioned seats covered with fine leather, but no 
arms, or very low ones, that will not impede the flow of 
ladies' dresses. People who make a study oi entertain- 



DniTITEB ETIQUETTE. 27 

ing are particular on ench points. Each gentleman 
offers his right arm to the lady he takes to dinner and 
Beats her on his left, which gives occasion for a pretty 
piece of attention on his part. On reaching their places, 
he draws out her chair for her, and as her hand leaves 
his arm he takes the tips of her fingers and hands her 
to her seat, relinquishing his touch with a slight bow or 
glance of acknowledgment. Of course, the honoured 
guest, if a lady, takes the right hand of the host ; if a 
gentleman, he is at the right of the hostess. 

Small can-shaped pitchers of engraved crystal, holding 
about a quart, are placed with ice water between each pair 
of guests. The napkins are folded flat, with a thick piece 
of bread on each, a cruet-stand and silver salt celler is at 
each comer, and a silver butter dish at each end. The 
small individual salt cellars and butter plates, have an 
air of hotel arrangements which it is desirable to avoid at 
home dinners, though entirely admissable and convenient 
at breakfast. If wax lights are used, there should be as 
many candles as guests, accordinfg to the old rule. These 
are in branches held by Sevres and Dresden figures, 
above the heads oi the guests. Nor are wax lights by any 
means the extravagance they seem. Dinner napkins 
are from three-quarters to seven-eighths of a yard square, 
and should match the cloth, for which Greek, Moresque, 
and Celtic filigrees and diaper patterns are preferred to 
large arabesques and fruit pieces. French napkins of 
fine fringed damask, with crimson figures of lobster and 
crawfish woven in the centre, are sometimes used at first 
and removed with the fish. Decorations must be choice 
and used with discretion. Flowers should be fine but 



^8 THE EO:^ OOOE BOOS. 

few, for cultivated senses find their odor does not mingle 
pleasantly with that of food. All artificial contrivances, 
like epergnes and show-pieces, tin gutters lined with 
moss and filled with flowers for the edges of a table, or 
mirror plates to reflect baskets of blossoms, are banished 
by the latest and best taste. The finest fruit grouped in 
the centre of the table, set off with leaves, the garnished 
dishes, the lustre of glass and silver, and the colours of 
dehcately painted china, need no improvement as a 
picture. A low silver basket of flowers at the sides, and 
a crystal bouquet holder with a delicate blossom and 
leaf, sparingly introduced, are all that is allowed for 
ornament's sake. Large dinner services of one pattern 
are no longer chosen. The meats and large dishes are 
in silver or electrotype ware, the sweets come in heavy 
English cut crystal, and each course brings with it plates 
of a different ware. 

The order of wines is sometimes perplexing, and the 
novice should remember that Chablis or Sauterne comes 
with the small oysters before soup, and that Sherry is 
drank after soup. Claret may be taken by those who 
prefer it during a whole dinner with entire propriety. 
Champagne comes with the roast, and Burgundy with 
game. The French and Germans reserve champagne 
for a dessert wine, but we drink it with both roast and 
dessert. After dessert comes coffee, which should be 
served, however, in the drawing-room. Fingerbowls 
with warm water are placed on the napkin on the dessert 
plate, and removed by the guest to the left, to be used 
by dipping the fingers in lightly and drying them on the 
d'oylay. When the ladies are quite through with dessert 



DINNEE ETIQUETTE. 29 

the hostess catches the eye of each or raises her gloved 
hand slighly, as a signal, and they leave the table, the 
oldest lady going first, the youngest last, followed by the 
hostess — the youngest gentleman, or the one nearest the 
door, taking it on himself to hold the door open. After 
half an hour a guest is at liberty to withdraw, but a 
dinner party rarely breaks up till half past ten or later, 
if cards and dancing follow. 

As to the individual etiquette of the table, on seating 
himseK a guest draws off his gloves, and lays them in his 
lap under the napkin, which should be spread lightly not 
tucked in the dress. The raw oysters are eaten with a 
fork; the soup, only a ladleful to each plate, is sipped 
from the side of the spoon, without noise, or tilting the 
plate. The head should never stoop toward the plate or 
cup, but the shoulders kept straight and the food lifted 
to the .mouth, the head bent naturally a Httle. A quiet 
celerity in eating is preferable to the majestic deliberation 
which man^ people consider genteel. Bread should be 
broken, never cut at table, and should be eaten morsel 
by morsel, not crumbed into soup or gravy. Food 
should not be mixed on the plate. Sweet com is brought 
on, tied in its husk by a strip of leaf, and should be 
eaten from the cob, breaking the ear in two, and holding 
the piece in the left hand. Asparagus should riot be 
touched with the fingers, but the tender part cut up, 
and eaten with the fork. Fish is eaten with the fork, 
assisted by a piece of bread in the left hand. Macca- 
roni is cut and taken with the fork, unless served with 
the tomatoes, when a teaspoon is allowed, as with green 
peas, and stewed tomatoes alone. Cheese is crumbled 



80 THB HOME OOOE BOOK. 

"with the fork and eaten with it, never touched by tiie 
fingers. Pastry should be broken by the fork withoai 
the aid of a knife. Game and chicken are cut up, never 
picked with the fingers, unless in the indulgence oi a 
family dinner, when the bone may be held in one hand 
and eaten. Pears are held by the stem to be paired, 
and then cut and eaten like apples, beginning to remove 
the skin at the blossom end. Oranges are held on a 
fork while peeled and divided without breaking the skin. 
Cherries in pie, or natural, should have the stones 
passed to the napkin held at the lips and returned to 
the plate, and grape seeds and skins are disposed of in 
the same way. Salt is left on the edge of the plate, not 
on the table. Ladies take but a single glass of any wine 
at most, having their glasses half- filled with champagne 
a second time. It is beginning to be the custom to take 
soft bread as well as ice-cream with cake. Cocoanut 
pudding looks pie, but is helped and eaten with a spoon. 
Small meringues are best eaten with a spoon, though 
the practice is to take them in the fingers. 



SOCIAL OBSERVANCES. 



The simplest society duty is, that of maMng calls. A 
new comer should return each call within two weeks 
after it is made. After this, a call once in six months, 
or a year, serves to keep up acquaintance. Calls are 
due to a hostess two days after a dinner party, and two 
days after a ball, and a week after a small party, though 
these are amply fulfilled by leaving one's card in the 
case of a gentleman, a personal call being pohte from a 
lady who has more time. 

In town, leaving a card with the comer bent signifies 
that it was left by its owner in person, not sent by a 
servant. Bending the edges of a card, means that the 
visit was designed for the young ladies of the house, as 
well as the mistress of it. If there is a visitor with the 
family whom you wished to see, a separate card should 
be left for that person, naming him or her to the ser- 
vant. A card should also be left for the host, if the call 
was designed as a family matter, but more than three 
are not left at one house. 

Visits of condolence are paid within a week after the 
funeral, and are as weU expressed by leaving a card and 
kind inquiries of the servant. This is the only proper 
thing to do in case of sickness, beside asking if one can 



32 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

be of use. Visits of congratulation are paid in person. 
After the birth of a child, cards and inquiries are lett 
at the door, when the lady is able to receive her friends, 
she sends her card in return " with thanks for kind in- 
quiries," after which calls are made on her in person. 

Bending the corners of the cards to signify " condo- 
lence," "felicitation," "to take leave," etc., is not used 
so much as a penciled word or two, to eipress one's 
"kind inquiries," if there is trouble in the house, or 
" best wishes," if there is a wedding, or engagement. 

The P. P. C. card when one is going away, is a con- 
venient way of letting friends know of your absence, the 
initials of " pour porendre conge" being often relinquished 
for the plain English " to take leave." On returning, 
cards are sent to all the friends one wishes to see, with 
one's address, and receiving day, when one day of the 
week is set apart for company. 

From three to six are proper calling hours, and a 
visit may be from five minutes to half an hour, never 
longer, unless with a very intimate friend. A gentle- 
man leaves his umbrella in the hall, but carries hat 
and cane with him, keeping the former in his left hand, 
never venturing to lay it on table, or rack, unless in- 
vited to do so by the lady of the house. Her not doing 
80 is a sign that it is not convenient for her to prolong 
bis call. 

A soft hat is tolerated, but the dress hat is n&aally 
carried. 

The lady of the house rises to receive any guest, un- 
less it be a very young one, and gives her hand. After 
the visit, she receives a gentleman's bow, and if disposed 



lOCIAL 0BSEBVANCE8. 83 

to be very polite, walks with liim to the door of the room. 
She sees a lady visitor to the street door, if the parlour 
is on the same floor. If not, going to the head of the 
stairs is sufficient courtesy except to elderly guests. A 
gentleman must escort a lady who makes him a busi- 
ness call to the outer door, and to her carriage, if she 
has one. A caller should take leave as soon as possible 
on the arrival of another visitor, unless asked to stay. 

Where a lady has a large acquaintance, it is most con- 
venient for her to set apart a day for receiving their 
calls, of which she admonishes them by her visiting card 
on which the day of the week is pencilled. 

Unless specially invited otherwise, her friends will 
confine their visits to that day of the week. 

To these afternoons the hostess appears in usual 
afternoon dress ; her rooms are attractive with flowers 
and pictures, but no refreshments are served. Her 
guests find her, not sitting at the receipt of customs, 
but busy with some elegant trifle of lace or wool-work, 
writing letters, or touching a sketch, to be laid aside on 
the entrance of visitors. 

The set afternoon reception is announced by this form 
of card, the hostess usually preferring to have some 
young lady with her to add to the attractions of her 
house. 

Mbs. L. Pebsifeb, 

Miss Abnold, 

At Home, 

tktarday, Janoary thirteentllc 

from threa imtil sis. 

(Name And No. of gtreek^ 



84 THE HOME COOK BOOS. 

If there be a card receiver in the hall, the visitor's card 
is left in it, that the hostess may have the pleasure after- 
ward of recalling all the friends who favour her with 
their presence. 

Cofifee, chocolate, cake and ices, are to be found in a 
side room at such receptions. 

The form of card for afternoon tea, which means ladies 
in visiting or carriage dress, a harlequin tea service, each 
cup different, or a set of choice East India China, rooms 
coosy with warm curtains, and signs of womanly occupa- 
tion, everything in short to have the daintiest home-look 
possible, are issued in this fashion : 

Mes. Beadlet CoWIiES, 
Friday, January 18th, 
Tea at 4 o'clock. 
(Name and No. of street.) 

Guests arrive in the five minutes before the hour, or the 
five minutes after. The tea is brought in punctually and 
placed on the hostess' table in the corner, where are the 
urns of black, green and Russian tea for those who like 
each, a basket of wafers, delicate sandwiches of chicken 
or thin sHced meats, and a basket of fancy cake. If the 
EngHsh style is followed, the cups of tea are carried to 
the guests on a tray, and a tiny table to rest the cups on 
placed in reach of each group. 

Cards are issued for dinner parties and afternoon recep- 
tions in distinction from evening parties and weddings, 
invitations to which are engraved on notepaper. Written 
invitations are more complimentary than printed ones, 
but the idea of cards and engraved requests is to save 
the labour of writing notes for a large party, or 



fiOCIAL OBSEHVAHCES. 85 

where one entertains continually. Written invita- 
tions for the honour and style of the thing, cards 
and engraving for convenience, though this is perhaps 
contrary to the popular notion. Written invitations 
should he as fastidiously correct as printed ones, on 
mill-finished side-fold note sheets with cipher in the 
comer, and written in the same form as cards, unless to 
a familiar friend, when such precision would be absurd. 
Outside envelopes are only used when invitations are 
sent by mail. And whether so requested in the note or 
not, answer to accept or decline should be sent as soon 
as possible, no matter how sUsrb* the invitation may be, 
even to dine with a gentleman, or go to a picture gal- 
lery. It will not do to present oneself without a word 
to announce one's coming, or to stay away and apolo- 
gize the first time of meeting, jood breeding is hardly 
shown in nicer points than this. 

The person entering a room is the one to salute the 
company by a good morning, or how do you do, and to 
make his adieus, to which the rest respond. Where a 
stranger enters a small company, each one should be 
separately presented. The guest salutes hostess and 
host before speaking to anyone else, and if the party is 
large, is introduced to two or three convenient persons 
that he may have somebody to talk to, though in a pri- 
vate house guests may accost each other without formal 
presentation. Near the close of a party, the host and 
hostess usually are to be found near the door of the par- 
lour, and guests take leave of them with a bow and 
compliment for a pleasant evening, then pass to the 
dressing rooms after wraps and vanish without fufth®*- 



36 5HE HOME COOK BOOK. 

Reremony. In small circles a bow should be given to 
each person about one, and leave taken of any special 
friend whose conversation has been particularly pleasant. 

A gentleman does not shake hands with a lady not of 
his kindred, unless she offers to do so. Unmarried 
ladies do not give their hands in salute to any but gen- 
tlemen relations. Ladies in any case give the hand, 
the gentleman respectfully presses it without shaking. 
It is a piece of stupid bad breeding, however, not to take 
the hand of anyone offered in ignorance of the rule. 
The best breeding always adapts itself to the customs of 
those about one. 

When a gentleman escorts a lady to a party, he waits 
for her near the door of the ladies' dressing-room till 
she shows herself, gives her his right arm, or gives it to 
the elder lady if he takes two, and goes up to the host- 
ess with her to make salutations, then after a sentence 
or two, turning away to join the company. After a 
dance with any lady it is proper to take half a turn 
round the room in promenade with her, and take her to 
the refreshment room if she wishes, always leaving her 
with her chaperone. An unmarried lady does not ask 
gentlemen to call, but the gentleman asks permissioD 
for the favour of her, or waits to be invited by her 
father or mother. 



LITTLE HOUSEKEEPERa 



It often happens that a good deal of knowledge which 
we are not conscious of possessing — ^but which finds its 
way somehow into the brains of big and little people as 
well — comes very readily to hand when it is needed. It 
80 happened with Annie and Jennie, whosp first practi- 
cal lessons in housekeeping began after breakfast, one 
morning when Bridget was absent, at her sister's funeral, 
and in consequence of an accident by which mamma 
sprained her ankle. 

And the doctor had said, with a very wise shake of 
his head, and any amount of wisdom in his eye, that 
*' Little Mother " must not step on that foot for three 
days, she grew still whiter with dismay, for Bridget 
would not be back until quite late in the day, and how 
was all the house work to be done and nobody to do it ? 

It was thus that Annie's and Jennie's first practical 
experiences in housekeeping began, and as our object in 
telling you how and what they did is to give you some 
ideas how you should manage in similar circumstances. 
I must not pass over their mother's first caution : Before 
eommenciug your work prepare yourselves for it. This 
they did by putting long sleeved aprons over their 



38 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

dresses, rolling back their sleeves when it was evident 
the right place to begin with was 

THE DINING BOOM. 

The first thing here to do, was the clearing of the 
table. In this, aU the clean silver, china, and dishes 
that had not been used, were first put away in the silver 
drawer, the china closet and on the side-board. Next, 
the dishes to be cleaned were collected together ; the 
silver and the knives were first put into a pitcher of hot 
water, with the bowls and blades downwards. Next, the 
water was emptied from the glasses, and the coffee from 
the cups into a basin, and while Annie took these into 
the kitchen and placed them there on the table, Jennie 
gathered the plates in a pile, the cups and the saucers, 
each by themselves, in which way they were quickly and 
easily carried to the kitchen. 

They were careful not to take too many at once, as 
they would be liable to break them. Then the table- 
cloth was folded and laid in the side-board ; the napkins 
were put in the napkin basket ; the dining room floor 
was nicely swept and the furniture dusted ; the coal stove 
was attended to, that the fire was not too lively and not 
too low ; and then, after kissing and petting mamma a 
few minutes, the little housekeepers set about 

T^ WASHING OF THE DISHES. 

This, of course, with "Little Mother" at the head of 
affairs, was no disagreeable work, you may be sure. The 
large tin dish-pan, as bright as silver, was placed in the 



THE LITTLE HOUSEKEEPERS. 89 

sink ; the hot and cold water faucets turned on until the 
temperature of the water was hot enough for cleansing 
the dishes, and not too hot for the hands; then the suds 
was made by stirring about in the water the soap- shaker 
(a little tin box with soap in it, and perforated with holes 
having a long handle like a dipper). Then the glasses 
were first washed and quickly wiped on clean dry towels; 
then the silver ; then the pretty china cups, saucers, 
plates and other dishes, which were then rinsed by pour- 
ing clear hot water over them in another pan, from which 
they were wiped with the coarser towels. This finished, 
Jennie removed the dishes from the kitchen table, putting 
the silver, glass and china away, while Annie washed 
the sauce-pans and the tins, putting them in their places 
in the kitchen ; then brushed the range and swept the 
titchen floor; after which they washed their hands well 
and dried them on the roller-towel ; and then our Uttle 
housekeepers set themselves about preparations for 

THE CHAMBEE WOEK. 

First, the two little girls went into mamma's room, 
and put on over their bright glossy curls two little 
Martha "Washington dusting-caps of pink and blue cam- 
bric, trimmed around the edges with scolloped ruffles, 
and ornamented with pretty httle fanciful bows of pink 
and blue cambric, with scalloped edges. Then Annie 
took the pails and cloths, and Jennie the brushes, and 
brooms, and went up stairs. 

The first rule of chamber work is to open the windows 
and turn down the bed clothes to air them well ; beating 
up the pillows and the mattress. As Annie and Jennie 



40 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

always did this the first thing after dressing mihe mom« 
ing, and before going down to breakfast, the fii-st thing 
now to do was to make up the bed. While Annie went 
to the further side, Jennie remained on the other, and 
thus, each sheet and blankett was brought up and laid 
over straight and smooth, with not a wrinkle in sheet 
or blanket, or a single article out of line. When all was 
done, the spread and blankets were turned neatly back, 
with the pretty ruffled sheet lying back on the nice white 
counterpane; the clothes were all neatly tucked and 
folded at the sides and the corners, and the pillows put 
up against the headboard. Then, while Annie washed 
the bed-room service, first emptying the waste water, and 
then washing out the cleanest dishes in warm suds, 
Jennie brushed the room, dusted the furniture and put 
the hair and clothes-brushes in order, and arranged the 
bureau and toilet table. They followed the same order 
in their brother John's room, which was all of the cham- 
ber work to be done that day, and then went down stairs. 
By this time the little housekeepers began to feel tired, 
and so they rested a while in their two little easy chairs 
in mamma's room, talking to mamma and each other 
until it came the time for getting ready for the 

LUNCHEON. 

As John took his dinner with him to school, and papa 
ate his luncheon down town, and would not be home 
until the five o'clock dinner, there was only mamma and 
the two little girls to partake of this repast together ; and 
as mamma's luncheons were such cosy, tasteful though 
simple meals, we may gain some suggestions from the way 



THE LITTLE H0U8EKEEPEE9. 41 

onr Kttle housekeepers prepared them. The first thing 
to do in getting any meal, is to decide upon the various 
dishes to be served. A look at the supply of prepared 
food was quite disheartening to the ambitious desires 
of the little housekeepers, as there was bread and cake 
and cold meat in plenty, and it seemed as though there 
would be no opportunity for practicing their skill in 
cooking. But mamma, who saw the troubled look OQ 
the little faces, made out the following 

BILL OF FARE ; 

Tea. 

White Bread. Brown Bread. Cnoken. 

Ham. 

Cheese Sandwiches. 

Jnmhles. Preserved Strawberries. 

Whipped Cream. 

Now, it must be remembered, that in this arrange- 
_ment, the bread was at hand ready to slice ; the ham 
was boUed, ready to cut ; and the strawberries ready in 
the little glass can to be opened. There remained, 
therefore, jumbles and tea to make, and the cheese 
sandwiches to prepare. Following mamma's advice, 
they first undertook the jumbles, of which they were to 
make but haJi the recipe. They selected for this " Ex- 
cellent Jumbles," in the Home Cook Book, and while 
Jennie held the book and read the ingredients, Annie 
collected them together. Thus : one-half a cup of but- 
tes, one cup of sugar, and one-half cup of cream, and 
one-half teaspoon of soda. When Jennie came to the 
one egg of the recipe, they had some trouble how they 
should manage to make it half an egg ; but after con- 
sultation with mamma, they concluded to vary from the- 



42 THE HOME OOOE BOOK. 

given rule, and put the whole egg in. Then Jennie read 
on : " A little nutmeg ; flour enough to stiffen it, so as 
to bake in rings ; bake quickly." 

The flour was sifted; the butter and sugar first 
creamed together by Annie, while Jennie beat the yolk 
of the egg, and added it to the creamed sugar and but- 
ter ; then they put in the nutmeg, the eream and the 
soda ; then the beaten white of the egg, and the sifted 
flour ; then they put the jumbles into the buttered rings 
and baked them. As the oven was quick and hot, I am 
happy to say these jumbles were a success. In taking 
them out of the tins when done, they did not pile them on 
one another, but placed them carefully about on a large 
plate to cool. Then the little housekeepers made the 
tea, according to the directions in the Cook Book, and 
also the cheese sandwiches, which were a complete suc- 
sess. The cutting of the bread was a difficult task, since 
to be nice the slices should be even and thin, but it was 
managed nevertheless with patience and care. When 
all was ready, the cream nicely whipped, the strawber- 
ries put in the preserve dish, the little round table in 
mamma's room drawn out, and the luncheon arranged, 
they were just ready to sit down to enjoy the fruits of 
their labour, what should they hear but Bridget's voice 
at the door. So it came to pass, that with the luncheon 
ended for this time the practical experiments of our little 
housekeepers. But it all goes to prove that, if we live 
with our eyes open, we shall all of us find that, with 
such help as our Home Cook Book, we shall be ready 
for those emergencies which come to big as well as the 
little housekeepers, when Bridget is not at hand. 



OUR SUSAN'S OPINION OP A KITCHEN. 



*'My opinion of a kitchen?" said Susan, in a tone, with 
a glance, and a wave of her fork that spoke unwritten 
volumes, as she translated the perfection of fried cakes 
from the frying kettle to a tin colander to drain ; " my 
opinion of a kitchen ? "Well, that would vary somewhat 
with the mansion that contained it. In any case, how- 
ever, it would be the pleasantest room in the house, if I 
had the ordering of things." 

The queen of our kitchen said this with a half smile 
and a half apology, as she continued : " It makes a good 
deal of difference, you know, to one who is to spend the 
best part of her time there. I often think that many 
people with whom money is no object, have very limited 
ideas of their responsibilities when it comes to the ser- 
vant's quarter in. the houses they build, with all they may 
have of modern improvements and conveniences. 

" I have no conceit of those fine houses," said she, 
with considerable asperity of manner, " with not a room 
in it but where a regiment might meander comfortably 
about among the furniture but the kitchen, which is only 
large enough for the range, the siuk, the ironing table, 

and the cook. Neither for my part, could I ever 

see what those people are thinking about who do not 
keep servants, and where the mistress expects to do her 



44 IHE HOME COOK BOOK. 

own work, who allows, of all rooms in the house, her 
kitchen to be built a dark little box of a place, pervaded 
with the sole idea of work. Of work, too, without one 
gleam of cheerfulness about it, and from which every one 
who enters escapes with a glad feeling of relief. For 
my part," she continued, "I don't see why making fried 
cakes, and baking biscuit, and washing dishes, might not 

be made as bright and attractive as, well, as any 

thing else one has to do in the way of house work. 

**My opinion of a kitchen, * as is a kitchen,' is one with 
room enough about for the many little things and com- 
forts that give it a home-like look; a 'living room,' as we 
used to call our kitchen in the old home. For instance 
this comes the nearest my idea of it ; always excepting 
that" she said, with a gratified glance around at the 
pretty clock on its pretty bracket, and the newspaper 
rack, (for Susan enjoyed the papers,) at the various nick- 
nacks, and the landscapes, and home views, which Susan 
prized far above the costly conventional fruit and game 
pieces on the dining room walls. And then Susan's 
glance wandered, with a pleased softened look to the 
sunny window, with its geranium pots and hanging 
basket, near which the most cheerful of canaries in his 
cage made all the air melodious with song. Here, also, 
stood an easy chair inviting rest for those moments of 
waiting upon work which so often occur, and near it a 
stand with drawers for all sorts of little treasures which 
contained all of fancy work in which Susan ever indulged, 
"That easy chair, and that window, are great comforts 
to me," she resumed. " Now, if there was but one 
window to my kitchen, and the sink before that, as I see 



OUR stjaan's opinion of a kitohen. 46 

in so many kitchetis, if I had to take refuge in a stiff- 
backed chair in a dark corner or the middle of the room 
•where I could reach out and touch the walls all around 
whUe I was waiting for the biscuit to rise, or the cake 
was baking, as I sat there glaring at some dark melan- 
choly paper, instead of this bright cheerful tint of gray, 
with its hints of rose and violet, and then with the 
wood-work about, of an ugly, dingy blue, or mud col- 
oured brown, instead of this bright-grained wood, with 
gleams of sunshine in it on the darkest days, and that is 
BO easy to keep clean and is as pretty as a picture. I 
think if this was that kind of a kitchen, I would run 
away with the milkman some bright morning — I actu- 
ally think I would." This is a standing joke of our 
Susan's, but one nevertheless that brings fear and con- 
sternation in our household whenever it is revived. " I 
suppose I was spoiled for that sort of thing in my early 
days," said she, meditatively, with a look in her eyes 
that went out for the moment, " over the hills and far 
away," to the kitchen, where we first found our Susan. 
It was a wide, long room — so wide and long that the 
dresser and clock and tables and large old-fashioned 
furniture that stood here and there, never intruded 
themselves, but in large, comely, decorous, but uncom- 
promising dignity, formed each a part of the harmoni- 
ous whole. There was an indescribable charm about 
it, always orderly, always bright and the centre of a 
home-life where its duties went on in that easy cheerful 
way, a pleasure both to sight and sense. About its 
many windows, all the summer time, the roses clam- 
bered in sweet confusion, and through which the scent 



46 THE HOME COOK BOOK, 

of the fragrant sweet-biiar came floating in, with the 
song of the woodland birds and the pleasant farm 
soun«ls, and a vision of the far away hills, in their ever 
varying beauty of light and shadow ; while within, in 
conscious enjoyment of it all, was Susan, stepping mer- 
rily about, making custard pies, or folding the fragrant; 
linen, fresh from the line, for the morrow's ironing. 
But the prettiest picture of that old kitchen was of a 
winter evening, when the winds blew furiously without, 
of the grand old fire-place, with its heaping wood fire^ 
over which on the crane the kettle hung, humming and 
singing, and sending up the chimney white clouds oj 
steam, while before it stood the tin baker, -^hich held 
the rich juicy roast, or the light snowy biscuit, the like 
of which never came out of any range that ever was, or 
will be invented ; while the fire lighted up the fine old 
room with a rich warm glow, as Susan set the table with 
its snowy linen and polished ware, and golden butter, 
and luscious honey in the comb, and all those charming 
fancies she knew so well how to prepare. And to com- 
plete the picture, the comfortable easy chairs by the 
fire where the grandmother sat in placid enjoyment with 
her knitting, and not very far away, the father, tired 
with the work of the day, giving himself to the rest and 
comforts of the evening hour. This is the picture that 
rose so vividly before me, but which had faded all too 
suddenly from our Susan's past. 

Ah, well ! said she, after a time coming out of her 
reverie with a little sigh and back again, to her opinion 
of a kitchen. 

"It is not all of life to live" — making a hap-hazard 



6tIB SUSAN*S OPIKION OP A EITCHEH. 47 

Belection from her small stock of poetical fancies, but 
checking herself before reaching the concluding i_lines of 
this stanza. 

"My opinion," she said, with a sudden change of tone 
and manner as she snijEfed the air — is — that until some 
contrivance is invented to carry out all the steam, smoke, 
and smell of frying, that with all my care, and in spite 
of windows, and doors, and ventilators, will hang about 
my kitchen, the millenium won't come ; and if it does, I 
shan't be in it." 

As she said this, we looked around, and there stood 
the Pater. And we knew by the look in his eyes that he 
had heard these words of Susan's. And thus it will 
happen, that the Pater who is a born inventor, but who 
in the hurry and worry of business life has limited 
opportunities for the indulgence of this natural bent oi 
his genius, wiU seize upon this idea with the pretext of a 
duty, and with which he will retire to the depths of his 
inner consciousness, there to evolve some stange contriv- 
ance hereafter to assume form and shape for the perfect- 
ing of "Our Susan's" kitchen. 



UTENSILS 

mWSBiKi IK TES KITCHEN OF A SMAI4L FAfiltLT. 



WOODEN WAEB. 

Kitchen Table; Wash Bench; Wash Tubs, (three 
eizes) ; Wash Board ; Skirt Board ; Bosom Board ; Bread 
Board ; Towel Eoll ; Potatoe Masher ; Wooden Spoons ; 
Clothes Stick ; Flour Barrel Cover ; Flour Sieve » 'chop- 
ping Bowl ; Soap Bowl ; Pails ; Lemon Squeezer , Oxothes 
Wringer ; Clothes Bars ; Clothes Pins ; Clothes Baskets ; 
Mop; Wood Boxes, (nests). 

TIN WAEE. 

•One Boiler for Clothes; one Boiler for Ham; one 
Bread Pan ; two Dish Pans ; one Preserving Pan ; four 
Milk Pans; two Quart Basins; two Pint Basins; two 
quart covered Tin Pails; one four-quart covered Tin Pail; 
Sauce Pans with covers, two sizes ; two Tin Cups with 
handles; four Jelly Moulds, (half-pint) ; two Pint Moulds 
for rice, blanc-mange, etc. ; one Skimmer ; two Dippers, 
different sizes ; two Funnels, (one for jug and one for 
cruets) ; one quart measure, also, pint, half-pint and gill 
measures, (they should be broad and low as they are more 
easily kept clean) ; three Scoops; Bread Pans; two round 



UTENSILS. 49 

Jelly Cake Pans, and two long Pie Pans ; One Coffee 
Pot ; one Tea Steeper ; one Colander ; one Steamer ; one 
Horse Eadish Grater ; one Nutmeg Grater ; one small 
Salt Sieve ; one Hair Sieve for straining jelly ; one 
Dover's Egg Beater; one Cake Turner; one Cake Cutter; 
one Apple Corer ; one Potato Cutter ; one dozen Muffin 
Kings ; one Soap Shaker ; Ice Filter ; Flour Dredge ; 
Tea Canister; Coffee Canister; Cake, Bread, Cracker, 
and Cheese Boxes ; Crumb Tray ; Dust Pans. 

mON WAKE. 

Kange ; one Pot with steamer to fit; one Soup Kettle ; 
Preserving Kettle (porcelain) ; Tea Kettle ; large and 
small Frying Pans; Dripping Pans; Gem Pans; Iron 
Spoons of different sizes ; one Gridiron ; one Griddle ; 
one Waffle Iron ; Toasting Eack ; Meat Fork ; Jagging 
Iron ; Can Opener ; Coffee Mill ; Flat Irons ; Hammer ; 
Tack Hammer ; Screw Driver ; Ice Pick. 

STONE WAKE. 

Crocks of various sizes ; Bowls holding six quarts, 
four quarts, two quarts, and pint bowls; six Earthen 
Baking Dishes different sizes. 

BKUSHES. 

Table Brush ; two Dust Brushes ; two Scrub Brushes; 
one Blacking Brush for stove; Shoe Brush; Hearth 
Brush; Brooms. 



SOUPS. 



•• No useless dish onr table crowds ; 

Harmoniously ranged and consonantly jOBt, 

As in a concert instruments resound, 

Our ordered dishes in their courses chime." 

The basis of all good soups, is the broth of meat 
This may be made by boiling the cracked joints of beef, 
veal or mutton, and is best when cooked the day before 
it is to be eaten. After putting the meat into the pot, 
cover it well with cold water and let it come to a boil, 
when it should be well skimmed. Set the pot where it 
will simmer slowly until it is thoroughly done, keeping 
the pot closely covered the while. The next day, when 
the soup is cold, remove the fat, which will harden on 
the top of the soup. After this, add the vegetables and 
the herbs you use for seasoning, cooking all well together. 
Before sending to the table, the soup should be strained. 
A good stock for soups may be made from shreds and 
bits of uncooked meat and bones, poultry and the re- 
mains of game. When these are all put together and 
stewed down in the pot, the French term it consomme^ 
and use it chiefly in the preparation of brown soups. 

Soups may be varied in many ways, chiefly in the kinds 
of vegetables and different seasonings need; — as in herbs, 



VALUABLE EECTPES. 61 

bnrned caramel, eggs or slices of bread fried to a ftrisp 
in butter, which impart a saYOury relish. 

EGG BALLS FOE SOUP. 

Hn. Frisbie. 

Bub the yolis of three or four hard boiled eggs to a 
Fmooth paste, with a little melted butter, pepper and 
salt, to these add two raw ones, beat in light, add enough 
flour to hold the paste together, make into balls, with 
floured hands, and set in a cool place until just before 
vour soup comes off, when you put them in carefully and 
boil one minute. 

ANOTHER SOUP FOE SUET. 

Mrs. G. B. Wyllie. 

One tea-cup pearl barley in about one pint cold water, 
bring to the boil till it swells, boil in a tin pail, in hot 
water, four quarts milk, put in your barley and keep 
simmering for three or four hours, add, then serving, one 
teaspoonful of salt* 

POTATO SOUP. 

Boil a shank of beef two days before you want your 
soup, strain into a crock and let stand till you need it, 
the fat will rise to the top, this you must take off before 
beginning to. make your soup, now take your soup pot, 
and in about two tablespoonfuls of this same fat, fry 
brown four large onions sliced, put in half your stock, 
have ready a pot of nicely mashed potatoes, stir the pot- 
fttoes^into the soup till about the thickness of thick cream. 



52 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

and season with pepper and salt. The remaining stock 
is valuable for graveys, &c., or Scotch broth instead of 
mutton. 

SCOTCH BEOTH. 

Mrs. G. B. Wyllie. 

Take one-half teacup barley, four quarts cold water 
bring this to the boil and skim now put in a neck of 
mutton and boil again for half an hour, skim well the 
sides of the pot also ; have ready two carrots, one large 
onion, a small head of cabbage, one bunch parsley, one 
sprig of celery top : chop all these fine, add your chop- 
ped vegetables, pepper and salt to taste. This soup 
takes two hours to cook. 

SUET SOUP. 

MADE WITHOUT MEAT. 

In your soup pot put about a quarter of a pound of 
butter, set on the stove, slice into it four large onions ; 
fry them a nice brown, stirring all the time. Now put 
in four quarts of cold water, one large coffee cupful of 
split peas previously washed ; boil four hours. Before 
serving stir smartly with your potato-masher, strain 
through a colander into your tureen. Many like tomato 
catsup in this, but it is better to serve that separate. 

TO KEEP STOCK FOE SOUP. 

Mrs. G. B. Wyllie. 

Cover your crock with a cloth, and tie down, as a lid 
causes it to ferment. 



VALUABLE BECIPES. 68 

POTATOE SOUP FOR LENT. 

Mr. G. B. Wyllie. 

Slice aud fry to a nice brown four large onions in quarter 
pound of butter in your soup pot, add four quarts of 
skim milk, have pealed and boiled a good three pints of 
potatoes, mash them fine and reduce smooth with the 
milk from your soup pot; repeat this till all the potatoes 
are in your soup pot; just bring to a boil and add pepper 
aud salt to taste. 

OX TAIL SOUP. 

Miss Brokovski. 

Take two ox tails and two whole onions, two carrots 
a small turnip, two tablespoonfuls of flour, and a little 
white pepper, add a gallon of water, let all boil for two 
hours; then take out the tails and cut the meat into 
small pieces, return the bones to the pot, for a short 
time, boil for another hour, then Jstrain the soup, and 
rinse two spoonfuUs of arrowroot to add to it with xhe 
meat cut from the bones, and let all boil for a quarter of 
an hour. 

BEEF SOUP. 
Mrs. Wm. H. Low. 

Cut all the lean of the shank, and with a little beef suet 
in the bottom of the kettle, fry it to a nice brown ; put in 
the bones and cover with water ; cover the kettle closely ; 
let it cook slowly until the meat drops from the bones ; 
strain through a colander and leave it in the dish during 
the night, which is the only way to get off all the fat. 



54 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

The day it is wanted for the table, fry as brown as possi- 
ble a carrot, an onion and a very small turnip sliced thin. 
Just before taking up, put in half a teaspoonful of sugar, 
a blade of mace, six cloves, a dozen kernels of allspice, a 
small tablespoonful of celery seed. With the vegetables 
this must cook slowly in the soup an hour ; then strain 
again for the table. If you use vermicelli or pearl barley, 
soak in water. 

JULIENNE SOUP. 

M. A. T. 

Shred two onions and fry brown in a half spoon of but- 
ter; add a little mace, salt and pepper; then a spoonful 
or so of stock ; rub a tablesp^^onful of flour smooth witl 
a little butter and let fry with the onions; strain through «% 
colander, then add more stock if desired ; cut turnip, car 
rot and celery in fillets ; add a few green peas ; boil tei> 
der in a litlie water and add both water and vegetables k> 
the soup. If wished, the flour can be left out, and it will 
make a clear light-coloured soup. In that case the onions 
should be cut in fillets and boiled with the vegetablea 

MUTTON SOUP. 

Mrs. Whitehead. 

Boil a leg of mutton three hours; season to your taste 
with salt and pepper, and add one teaspoon of summer 
savory; make a batter of one egg, two tablespoons of 
milk, two tablespoons of flour, all well beaten together ; 
drop this batter into the soup with a spoon, and boil foi 
three minutes. 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 65 

YEAL SOUR 

To about three pounds of a joint of veal, which must 
be "Vfell broken up, put four quarts of water and set it 
over to boil. Prepare one-fourth pound of macaroni by 
boiling it by itseK, with sufficient water to cover it ; add 
a httle butter to the macaroni when it is tender ; strain 
the soup and season to taste with salt and pepper ; then 
add the macaroni in the water in which it is boiled. 
The addition of a pint of rich milk or cream and celery 
flavour is relished by many. 

TURKEY SOUP. 

AnoQjmotis. 

Take the turkey bones and cook for one hour in water 
f nough to cover them ; then stir in a little dressing and 
a beaten egg. Take fi-om the fire, and when the water 
hA« ceased boiling add a little butter with pepper and 

salt. 

OYSTER SOUP. 

M. A. T. 

Take one quart of water, one teacup of butter ; one 

pint of milk, two teaspoons of salt, four crackers rolled 

fine, and one teaspoon of pepper ; bring to full boiling 

heat as soon as possible, then add one quart of oysters : 

let the whole come to boiling heat quickly and remove 

from the fire. 

OYSTER SOUP. 

Mrs. T. V. Wadskier. 

Pour one quart of boiling water into a skillet ; then 
one quart of good rich milk ; stir in one teacup of rolled 



56 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

cracker crumbs ; season with pepper and salt to taste. 
When all come to a boil, add one quart of good fresh 
oysters ; stir well, so as to keep from scorching ; then 
add a piece of good sweet butter about the size of an 
egg ; let it boil up once, then remove from the fire im- 
mediately ; dish up and send to table. 

CLAM SOUP. 

Mrs. A. A. Carpenter. 

Cut salt pork in very small squares and fry light 
brown ; add one large or two small onions cut very fine, 
and cook about ten minutes ; add two quarts of water 
and one quart of raw potatoes sliced ; let it boil ; then 
add one quart of clams. Mix one tablespoonful of flour 
with water, put it with one ^int of milk and pour into 
the soup and let it boil about five minutes. Butter, 
pepper, salt, Worcestershire sauce to taste. 

LOBSTEE SOUP. 

, Mrs. Bobert Harris. 

One large lobster or two small ones ; pick all the meat 
from the shell and chop fine ; scald one quart of milk 
and one pint of water ; then add the lobster, one pound 
of butter, a tablespoonful of flour, and salt and red pep- 
per to taste. Boil ten minutes and serve hot. 

PLAIN CALF'S HEAD SOUP. 

Mrs. F. D. J. 

Take a calf s head well cleaned, a knuckle of veal, and 
put them both into a large kettle ; put one onion and 



VALUABLE EECIPE8. 5? 

a large tablespoon of sweet herbs, into a cloth and into 
the kettle, with the meat over which you have poured 
about four quarts of water. If you wish the soup for a 
CHie o'clock dinner, put the meat over to boU as early as 
eight o'clock iu the morning ; let it boil steadily and 
slowly and season well with salt and pepper. About 
one hour before serving, take off the soup and pour it 
through a colander, pick out all the meat carefully, chop 
very fine and return to the soup, putting it again over 
t!ie fire. Boil four eggs very hard, chop them fine, and 
slice one lemon very thin, adding at the very last. 

YEEMICELLI SOUP. 

AnonymoTis. 

A knuckle of lamb, a small piece of veal, and water to 
cover well ; when well cooked, season with salt, pepper, 
herbs to your taste, and a small onion, to which you 
may add Halford or Worcestershire sauce, about a table- 
spoonful. Have ready one-quarter of a pound of vermi- 
celU, which has been boiled tender; strain your soup 
from the meat, add the vermicelli, lei it boil well and 
serve. 

"^ GUMBO SOUP. 

Anonymoos. 

Put on half a peck of tomatoes in a porcelain kettle 
and let them stew ; have haK a peck of ochra cut in fine 
shreds ; put them with thyme, parsley and an onion cut 
fine, into the tomatoes and let them cook tmtil quiie 
tender. Fricassee one chicken in hanj gravy : then takd 



58 THE HOME COOK BOOS. 

the yolk of four eggs, a little vinegar,- the juice of one 
lemon, and season to taste, beating the eggs into the 
vinegar; pour this over the chicken, and put all then 
into the tomatoes, letting the kettle be nearly filled with 
water. Boil all together four or five hours, 

MOCK TUETLE SOUP. 
Mrs. C. H. Wheeler. 

One soup-bone, one quart of turtle beans, one largo 
spoonful of powdered cloves, salt and pepper. Soak the 
beans over night, put them on with the soup-bone in 
nearly six quarts of water and cook five or six hours. 
When half done, add the cloves, salt and pepper ; when 
done, strain through a colander, pressing the pulp of the 
beans through to make the soup the desired thickness, 
and serve with a few slices of hard-boiled egg and lemon 
sliced very thin. The turtle beans are black and can 
only be obtained from large grocers. 

TOMATO SOUP. 

Mrs. Whitehead. 

Boll chicken or beef four hours ; then strain ; add to 
the soup one can of tomatoes and boil one hour. This 
will make four quarts of soup. 

TOMATO SOUP WITHOUT MEAT. 

C. O. Van Cline. 

One quart of tomatoes, one quart of water, one quart 
of milk. Butter, salt and pepper to taste. Cook the 
tomatoes thoroughly in the water, have the milk scald- 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 59 

ing, (over \7ate1 to prevent scorching.) When the toma- 
toes are done add a large teaspoonful of salaratus, which 
will cause a violent effervescence. It is best to set the 
vessel in a pan before adding it to prevent waste. 
"When the commotion has ceased add the milk and 
Beasoning. When it is possible it is best to use more 
milk than water, and cream instead of butter. The soup 
is eaten with crackers and is by some preferred to oyster 
syrup. This recipe is very valuable for those who keep 
abstinence days. 

ASPARAGUS SOUP. 

Mrs. D. 

Three or four pounds of veal cut fine, a little salt 
pork, two three bunches of aparagus and three quarts 
of water. JBoil one-half of the asparagus with the meat, 
leaving the rest in water until about twenty minutes 
before serving ; then add the rest of the asparagus and 
boil just before serving ; add one pint of milk ; thicken 
with a little flour and season. The soup should boil 
about three hours before adding the last half of the 
asparagus. 

GREEN PEA SOUP. 

Anonymoas. 

Four pounds of lean beef cut in small pieces, one-half 
peck of green peas, one gallon of water ; boil the empty 
pods of the peas in the water one hour ; strain them out ; 
add the beef and boil slowly one and a half hours. Half 
an hour before serving strain out the meat and add tho 



60 THE HOME COOK BOOK.' 

peas; twenty minutes later add one-half cup of rice 
flour ; salt and pepper to taste ; and if you choose, one 
teaspoon of sugar. After adding the rice, stir frequently 
to prevent burning. 

COEN SOUP. 

Mrs. W. P. Nixon. 

One small beef bone, two quarts of water ; four toma- 
toes, eight ears of corn ; let the meat boil a short time 
in the water ; cut the com from the cob and put in the 
cobs with the cut corn and tomatoes; let it boU about 
half an hour ; remove the cobs ; just before serving add 
milk, which allow to boil for a few moments only; 
season with salt and pepper. 

COEN SOUP. 

Anonymous, 

One quart of com cut from the cob in three pints of 
water : when the grain is quite tender, mix with them 
two ounces of sweet butter rolled in a tablespoon of 
flour ; let it boil fifteen minutes longer ; just before tak- 
ing up the souiD, beat up an egg and stir in with pepper 
and salt. 

TURTLE BEAN SOUP. 

Mrs. A. N. Arnold. 

Take a quart of black beans, wash them and put them 
in a pot with three quarts of water ; boil until thoroughlji 
soft ; rub the pulp through a colander and return it to 
the pot ; add some thyme in a clean cloth, and let it boil 



VALUABLE BECIPES. 61 

a few minutes for flaTonr ; slice some hard boiled eggs 
and drop them into the soup ; add a little butter, pepper 
and salt. 

BEAN SOUP. 

Mrs. "Whiteliead. 

One pint beans, four quarts water, small piece fat 
beef ; boil three hours and strain. If too thin add one 
tablespoon flour. 

POTATO SOUP. 

M. A. T. 

BoH five or six potatoes with a small piece of salt 
pork and a little celery ; pass through a colander and 
add milk or cream (if miik, a little butter,) to make the 
consistency of thick cream ; chop a little parsley fine 
and throw in ; let boil five minutes ; cut some dry bread 
in small dice, fry brown in hot lard ; drain them and 
place in the bottom of soup tm-een, and pour the soup 
over ; chop two onions and boil with the soup, if Hked. 

FOECE MEAT BALLS. 

Mrs. James S. Gibbs. 

Mix with one pound of chopped veal or other meat, 
one egg, a little butter or raw pork chopped fine, one 
cup or less of bread crumbs ; the whole well moistened 
with warm water, or what is better, the water from 
stewed meat ; season with salt and pepper ; make in 
email balls and fry them brown. 



6^ THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

EGG BALLS FOR SOUP. 

M. A. T. 

Boil four egga ; put into cold water ; mash yolks with 
yolk of one raw egg, and one teaspoon of flour ; pepper, 
salt and parsley ; make into balls and boil two minutea. 

NOODLES FOR SOUP. 

Mrs. F. D. J. 

Rub into two eggs as much sifted flour as they will 
absorb ; then roll out until thin as a wafer ; dust over 
a little flour, and then roll over and over into a roll ; 
cut off thin slices from the edge of the roll and shake 
out into long strips ; put them into the soup lightly and 
boil for ten minutes ; salt should be added while mix- 
ing with the flour — about a saltspoonful. 

CARAMEL, OR BURNED SUGAR. 

Put two ounces of brown or white sugar in an old tin 
cup over a brisk fire, stir this until it is quite dark and 
gives forth a burned smell, then add half a cup of cold 
water ; let it boil gently a few minutes, stirring well and 
all the while. Take off, and when cold bottle for use. 
This keeps well, and may be used for flavoring gravies 
and soaps. 

CROUTONS. 

These are simply pieces of bread fried brown and 
crisp to be used in soups. 



FISH. 



* The BilTery fish, 
Grazing at large in meadows snhmarind, 
Fresh from the wave now oheera 
Onr festive board." 

— ASOH. 

Fish are good, when the gills are red, eyes are full, anc 
the body of the fish is firm and stiff. After washing then: 
well, they should be allowed to remain for a short time ir 
salt water sufficient to cover them ; before cooking, wipe 
them dry, dredge lightly with flour, and season with salt 
and pepper. Salmon trout and other small fish are 
usually fried or broiled ; all large fish should be put in a 
cloth, tied closely with twine, and placed in cold water, 
when they may be put over the fire to boil. When fish 
are baked, prepare the fish the same as for boiling, and 
put in the oven on a wire gridiron, over a dripping pan. 

SUGGESTIONS AS TO FISH, POULTRY, &c. 

Misa Biley. 

Cod-Fish — ^requires great care in cleaning, particularly 
in cleansing the back-bone from blood which spoils its 
appearance, and sometimes renders it too unsightly for 
the table. Fishes that are to be dressed in their scales, 



64 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

should be dipped in water, and rubbed with a coarse 
towel to remove the shine. All salt fish should be 
properly soaked in water, previous to cooking. It is 
asserted that a small proportion of sugar will keep fish 
perfectly fresh for several days ; it also cures salmon and 
white fish with a little salt added to please the taste. 
Presh water fish has often a muddy smell and taste ; to 
take this o£f, soak it in strong salt and water after it is 
nicely cleansed, then dry and dress it. 

BOILED WHITE FISH. 

Mrs. Andrews. 

Lay the fish open ; put it in a dripping pan, with the 
back down ; nearly cover with water ; to one fish put two 
tablespoons salt ; cover tightly and simmer (not boil) one- 
half hour ; dress with gravy, butter and pepper ; garnish 
with sliced eggs. 

For sauce use a piece of butter the size of an egg, one 
tablespoon of flour, one-half pint boihng water ; boil a 
few minutes, and add three hard boiled eggs, sliced. 

FISH A LA CEEME. 

Mrs. J. A. EUia. 

Take any firm salt water fish, rub it with salt and put 
it in a kettle with enough boiling water to cover it. As 
soon as it boils set it back where it will simmer, let it 
stand for an hour, then take it up and draw out all the 
bones. Put one ounce of flour into a sauce-pan, to which 
add by degree one quart of cream or new milk, mixing it 
very smoothly, then add the juice of one lemon, one 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 65 

onion chopped fine, a bunch of parsley, a Kttle nntmeg. 
Bait and pepper. Put this on the fire, stirring it till it 
forms a thick sauce; stir in a quarter of a pound of 
butter ; strain the sauce through a sieve. Put a little on 
a dish, then lay the fish on it and turn the remainder of 
the sauce over it. Beat to a froth the whites of six eggs, 
spread over the whole, and bake half an hour a light 
brown. 

SAUCE FOE BOILED FISH. 

To one teacup of milk, add one teacup of water ; put 
it on the fire to scald, and when hot stir in a tablespoon 
of flour, previously wet with cold water ; add two or 
three eggs ; season with salt and pepper, a little celery, 
vinegar and three tablespoons of butter. Boil four or 
five eggs hard, take off the shells, and cut in slices, and 
lay over the dish. Then pour over the sauce and serve. 

BAKED HALIBUT OR SALMON. 

Let the fish remain in cold water, shghtly salted, for 
an hour before it is time to cook it ; place the gridiron 
on a dripping pan with a little hot water in it and bake 
in a hot oven ; just before it is done, butter it well on 
the top, and brown it nicely. The time of baking de- 
pends upon the size of the fish. A small fish will bake 
in about half an hour, and a large one in an hour. 
They are very nice when cooked as above and served 
with a sauce which is made from the gravy in the drip- 
ping pan, to which is added a tablespoon of catsup and 
another of some pungent sauce and the juice of a lemon. 
Thicken with brown flour moistened with a little cold 



66 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

water. Garnish handsomely with sprigs of parsley and 
currant jelly. 

BAKED BLACK BASS. 

Mrs. P. B. Ayer. 

Eight good sized onions chopped fine; half that 
quantity of bread crumbs; butter size of hen's egg; 
plenty of pepper and salt, mix thoroughly with anchovy 
sauce until quite red. Stuff your fish with this com^ 
pound and pour the rest over it, previously sprinkling 
it with a little red pepper. Shad, pickerel and trout 
are good the same way. Tomatoes can be used instead 
of anchovies, and are more economical. If using them, 
take pork in place of butter and chop fine. 

BEOILED WHITE FISH— FEE SH. 

Mrs. a. E. P. 

Wash and drain the fish ; sprinkle with pepper and 
lay with the inside down upon the gridiron, and broil 
over fresh bright coals. When a nice brown, turn for 
a moment on the other side, then take up and spread 
with butter. This is a very nice way of broiling all 
kinds of fish, fresh or salted. A httle smoke under the 
fish adds to its flavour. This may be made by putting 
two or three cobs under the gridiron. 

SALT MACKEEEL. 

Mrs. F. D. J. 

Soak the fish for a few hours in lukewarm water, 
changing the water several times; then put into cold 



VALUABLE REOTPES. 67 

water loosely tied in cloths, and let the fish come to a 
Doil, taming off the water once, and pouring over the 
fish hot water from the tea kettle ; let this just come to 
a boil, then take them out and drain them, lay them on 
a platter, butter and pepper them, and place them for a 
few moments in the oven. Serve with sliced lemons, 
or with any nice fish sauce. 

BOILED CODFISH— SALT. 

Soak two pounds of codfish in lukewarm water over 
night or for several hours; change the water several 
times ; about one hour before dinner put this into cold 
fresh water, and set over the fire ; let it come to a boil, 
or just simmer, for fifteen minutes but not to boil hard, 
then take out of the water, drain and serve with egg 
sauce, or with cold boiled eggs sliced and laid over it, 
with a drawn butter or cream gravy poured over all. 

EELS. 

Mrs. P. B. Ayer. 

Skin and parboil them ; cleanse the back bone of all 
coagulations ; cut them in pieces about three inches in 
length; dip in flour and cook in pork fat, brown. 

CHOWDEPv. 

Mrs. P. B. Ayer. 

Five pounds of codfish cut in squares ; fry plenty of 
Bait pork cut in thin slices ; put a layer of pork in your 
kettle, then one of fish ; one of potatoes in thick slices, 
and one of onions in slices ; plenty of pepper and salt j 



68 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

repeat as long as yonr materials last, and finish with a 
layer of Boston crackers or crusts of bread. Water suffi- 
cient to cook with, or milk if you prefer. Cook one-half 
hour and turn over on your platter, disturbing as little 
as possible. Clams and eels the same way. 

POTTED FISH. 

Mrs. Gridley. 

Take out the backbone of the fish ; for one weighing 
two pounds take a tablespoon of allspice and cloves 
mixed ; these spices should be put into httle bags of not 
too thick muslin ; put sufficient salt directly upon each 
fish ; then roll in a cloth, over which sprinkle a little 
cayenne pepper ; put alternate layers of fish, spice and 
sago in an earthern jar ; cover with the best cider vinegar ; 
cover the jar closely with a plate and over this put a cov- 
ering of dough, rolled out to twice the thickness of pie 
crust. Make the edges of paste, to adhere closely to the» 
sides of the jar, so as to make it air-tight. Put the jar 
into a pot of cold water and let it boil from three to five 
hours, according to quantity. Eeady when cold. 

Sauces for "Fish and Meat" will follow "Meats." 



SHELL FISH. 



OYSTEES ON THE SHELL. 

"Wash the shells and put them on hot coals or upon 
the top of a hot stove, or bake them in a hot oven ; open. 



VALUABLE EEdPBS. 69 

Uie shells witli an oyster knife, taking care to lose none 
of the liquor, and serve quickly on hot plates, with toast. 
Oysters may be steamed in the shells, and are excellent 
eaten in the same manner. 

BROILED OYSTERS. 

Drain the oysters weU and dry them with a napkin. 
Have ready a griddle hot and well buttered ; season the 
oysters ; lay them to griddle and brown them on both 
Bides. Serve them on a hot plate with plenty of butter. 

CREAMED OYSTERS. 

Clara E. Thatcher. 

To one quart of oysters take one pint of cream or 
fiweet milk ; thicken with a httle flour, as for gravy ; 
when cooked pour in the oysters with hquor ; pepper, salt 
and butter the mixture. Have ready a f)latter with 
slices of nicely browned toast, pour creamed oysters on 
ioast and serve hot. 

OYSTERS A LA CREME. 

Mrs. 3. £. Lvon. 

One quart of oysters, one pint of cream; put the 
oysters in a double kettle, cook until the milk juice begins 
to flow out; drain the oysters in a colander; put the 
cream on the same way ; when it comes to a boil, thicken 
with flour wet with milk as thick as corn starch ready 
to mould ; then put in the oysters and cook Ave minutes, 
S-srve hot on toast. 



70 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

PANNED OYSTEKS. 

Mrs. J. B. Lyon. 

Drain the oysters from the liquor ; put them in a hot 
pan or spider ; as soon as they begin to curl, add butter, 
pepper and salt. Serve on toast, or without, if preferred. 

STEWED OYSTEES. 

Mrs. Andrews. 

In all cases, nnless shell oysters, wash and drain ; mix 
half a cup of butter and a tablespoon of com starch ; put 
with the oysters in a porcelain kettle; stir until they 
boil ; add two cups of cream or milk ; salt to taste ; do 
not use the liquor of the oysters in either stewing or 
escaloping. 

ESCALOPED OYSTERS. 

Mrs. Andrews. 

Butter the dish, (common earthem pie-plates are the 
best,) cover the bottom of the dish with very fine bread 
crumbs ; add a layer of oysters ; season with pepper and 
salt; alternate the crumbs and oysters until you have 
three layers ; finish with crumbs ; cover the top with 
small pieces of butter ; finish around the edge with bread 
cut into small oblong pieces dipped in butter ; bake half 
an hour ; unless shell oysters, wash them thoroughly 
and strain. 

OYSTER PATTIES. 

Aunt Maggie. 

Make some rich puff paste and bake it in very small 
tin patty pans ; when cool, turn them out upon a large 



Valuable sbcipes. 71 

dish ; stew some large fresh oysters with a few cloves, a 
little mace and nutmeg ; then add the yolk of one egg, 
boiled hard and grated ; add a little butter, and as much 
of the oyster liquor as will cover them. When they have 
stewed a little while, take them out of the pan and set 
them to cool. When quite cold, lay two or three oysters 
in each shell of pnf paste. 

TO FRY OYSTERS. 

Mrs. D. Wadskier. 

Use the largest and best oyr^t^rs ; lay them in rows 
upon a clean cloth and press another upon them, to 
absorb the moisture ; have ready several beaten eggs; 
and in another dish some finely crushed crackers ; in the 
frying pan heat enough butter to entirely cover the 
oysters ; dip the oysters first into the eggs, then into the 
* crackers, rolling it or them over that they may become 
well incrusted ; drop into the frjHing pan and fry quickly 
to a hght brown. Serve dry and let the dish be warm. 
A chafing dish is best. 

FEICASSEED OYSTERS. 

Mrs. W. P. Blown. 

For a quart can, drain the oysters dry as possible ; 
put a piece of butter the size of an egg into your spider, 
and let it get quite brown ; put in your oysters and as 
soon as they commence to cook, add as much more 
butter, which has been previously well mixed with a 
tablespoon of flour ; let it cook a moment and add one 
egg, beaten with a tablespoon of cream; let this cook a 
moment and pour all over toasted bread. 



72 THE HOME COOE BOOS. 

BTEWED OYSTEES. 

Mrs. T. McMish. 

Drain the liquor from two quarts of firm, plump oys- 
ters, mix with it a small teacup of hot water, add a little 
salt and pepper, and set over the fire in a saucepan. 
When it boils, add a large cupful of rich milk. Let it 
boil up once, add the oysters, let them boil five minutes. 
When they ruffle, add two tablespoons butter, and the 
instant it is melted, and well stirred in, take off the fire. 

BEEFSTEAK AND OYSTEE PIE, 

Miss Riley. 

Beat the steak gently with a rolling pin, and season 
with pepper and salt. Have ready a deep dish lined with 
not too rich a pastry. Put in the meat with layers ol 
oysters ; then the oyster liquor with a little mace, and a 
teaspoon catsup ; cover with top crust and bake. Veal 
will do as well as beef. 



p.n 



GALLOPED OYSTERS. 

Crush and roll several handfuls of Boston crackers ; 
put a layer in the bottom of a buttered pudding-dish. 
Wet this with a mixture of the oyster liquor and milk 
slightly warmed. Next a layer of oysters sprinkled with 
salt, pepper, and small bits of butter ; then another layer 
of the moistened crumbs, then a layer of oysters, and so 
on till the dish is full. Let the top layer be of crumbs, 
and beat an egg into the milk, which you pour over them. 
Stick bits of butter thickly over it, and bake half an hour. 



TALUABLE EECIPES. 73 

PICKLED OYSTERS. 

Mrs. 0. O. Smith. 

Wash them from their liquor and put them into a porce- 
lain lined kettle, with strong salt and water to cover them ; 
let them come to a boil, and then skim them into cold 
water ; scald whole peppers, mace, and cloves in a little 
vinegar ; the quantity of these must be determined by the 
number of oysters ; when the oysters are cold, put them 
into a stone jar with layers of spice between them, and 
make liquor enough to cover them from the liquor in 
which they were cooked; spice your vinegar and cold 
water to taste. 

LOBSTER CHOWDER. 

Mrs. Lambkin. 

Four or five pounds of lobster, chopped fine ; take the 
green part and add to it four pounded crackers ; stir this 
into one quart of boiling milk ; then add the lobster, a 
piece of butter one-half the size of an egg, a little pepper 
and salt, and bring it to a boil. 

LOBSTER CROQUETTES. 

M. A. T. 

The same mixture as given for stuffed lobster, without 
the cream ; made into pointed balls, dipped in egg, and 
then rolled in cracker and fried in very hot lard; served 
dry and garnished with parsley. 

CLAM STEW. 

Mrs. M. L. S. 

Lay the clams on a gridiron over hot coals, taking them 
out of the shells as soon as open, saving the juice; add a 



74 THE HOME OOOE BOOS. 

little hot water, pepper, a very little salt and butter rolled 
in flour sufficient for seasoning ; cook for five minutes 
and pour over toast. 

CLAM FEITTEES. 

M. A. T. 
Twelve clams chopped or not ; one pint milk ; three 
eggs ; add liquor from clams ; salt and pepper, and flour 
enough for thin batter. Fry in hot lard. 

TKIPE A LA LYONNAISE (LYONS FASHION). 

"When any cold tripe remains, cut it in thin slices 
about an inch square, and wipe it very dry. Mince two 
onions, put some butter (in the proportion of 3 oz. to 1 
lb. of tripe) into a frying-pan with the onions ; when 
they are about half done put in the tripe, and let all fry 
for about ten minutes; season with pepper and salt, 
and three tablespoonfuls of vinegar to each pound of 
tripe. Serve very hot. 

TEIPE. 

From Lady Harriet St. Clair's Dainty Dishes. 

Stewed Tripe. — Select two pounds of double tripe well 
cleaned and blanched, cut in pieces of rather less than 
a quarter of a pound each, put in a clean stew-pan with 
a pint of milk and one of water, two teaspoonfuls of salt, 
one of pepper, eight middle-sized onions carefully 
peeled ; set it on to boil, which it should do at first 
rather fast, then simmer till done, which will be in 
rather more than half an hour. Put it into a deep dish 
or tureen and serve with the milk and onions. 



POULTRY AND GAME. 



" WhoBO seeks an audit here, 
1 fopitious pays his tribute — game or fish, 
\Viii fowl or TeniBon, and his errand speed.** 

— COWPEB. 

POULTKY. 

When poultry is brought into the kitchen for use it 
should be kept as cool as possible. The best posi- 
tion in which to place it is with the breast down- 
wards on a shelf or marble slab. The crop should be 
taken out. Choose fowls with a thin, transparent skin, 
white and delicate. Time required to boil poultry : a 
chicken wiU take about 20 minutes ; a fowl about 40 
minutes ; a small turkey an hour and a half ; a large 
tiurkey two hours or more. 

BOILED FOWL. 

Take a young fowl and fill the inside with oysters ; 
place in a jar and plunge into a kettle of water ; boil for 
one and one-haK hours ; there wiU be a quantity of 
gravy in the jar from the juice of the fowl and the 
oysters ; make this into a white sauce with the addition 
of egg, cream, or a little flour and butter ; add oysters, 
or serve up plain with the fowl. This is very nice with 
the addition of a little parsley to the sauce. 



76 tHE HOME COOK BOOK. 

ROAST TUEKEY OR CHICKEN. 

Having picked and drawn the fowls, wash them well 
in two or three waters ; wipe them dry ; dredge them 
with a little flour ineide and out, and a little pepper and 
salt ; prepare a dressing of bread and cracker crumbs, 
fill the bodies and crops of the fowls and then bake them 
from two to three hours ; baste them frequently while 
roasting ; stew the giblets in a saucepan ; just before 
serving, chop the giblets fine ; after taking up the 
chicken, and the water in which the giblets were boiled, 
add the chopped giblets to the gravy of the roast fowl ; 
thicken with a little flour, which has been previously 
wet with the water ; boil up, and serve in a gravy-dish. 
Roast chickens and turkey should be accompanied with 
celery and jellies. 

TO BOIL A TURKEY. 

Mrs. Bobert Bcaty. 

Make a stuffing for the craw of chopped bread and 
butter, cream, oysters, and the yolks of eggs ; sew it in, 
and dredge flour over the turkey, and put it to boil in 
cold water, with a spoonful of salt in it, and enough 
water to cover them weU ; let it simmer for two hours 
and a half, or, if small, less time ; skim it while boil- 
ing; it looks nicer if wrapped in a cloth dredged with 
flour; serve it with drawn butter, in which put some 

oysters, 

ROAST CHICKENS. 

Mrs. Jas. Beaty. 

Wash them clean outside and inside ; stuff them as 



▼ALtJABLE RECIPES. 77 

directed for turkeys; baste them with butter, lard, or 
drippings, and roast them about an hour. Chickens 
should be cooked thoroughly. Stew the inwards till 
tender, and till there is but little water; chop them and 
mix in gravy from the dripping-pan ; thicken with brown 
flour; season with salt, pepper, and butter. Cran- 
berry or now made apple sauce, is good with them. 

TO STEW BIRDS. 

« Mrs. Jas. Beaty, 

Wash and stuff them with bread crumbs, seasoned 
with pepper, salt, butter or chopped salt pork, and fasten 
them tight. Line a stew pan with slices of bacon, add a 
quart of water and a bit of butter the size of a goose egg, 
or else four slices of salt pork. Add if you like sliced 
onions, and sweet herbs and mace. Stew till tender, 
then take them up and strain the gravy over them. Add 
boiling water if the liquor is too much reduced. 

ON THE PREPAEATION OF HASHES, GliAVIES, 
AND SAUCES. 

Mrs. Jas. Beaty. 

There is nothing worse for the health, or for the palate, 
than a poor hash, while a good hash is not only a 
favourite dish in most families, but an essential article 
of economy and convenience. For this reason a separate 
article is devoted to this subject. The following are the 
ways in which hashes are spoilt. The first is by cooking 
them. Meat, when once cooked, should only be heated. 
If it is again stewed or fried, it tends to make it hard or 



78 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

tough, and diminishes its flavour. The second is by fry- 
ing the butter or gravy in which they are prepared. It 
has been shown that this is very injurious to the health- 
fuhiess of food. Butter and oils may be melted without 
changing their nature, but when cooked, they become 
much more indigestible and injurious to weak stomachs. 
The third mode of injuring hashes is by putting in flour 
in such ways that it is not properly cooked. Flour 
dredged on to hashes while they are cooking imparts the 
raw taste of dough. The fourth mode, is by putting in 
so much water as to make them vapid, or else so much 
grease as to make them gross. The fifth is by seasoning 
them with so little care, that they either have very little 
savory taste, or else are so hot with pepper and spice as to 
be unhealthy. If a housekeeper will follow these direc- 
tions, or give them to a cook who will follow them exactly, 
she will always have good and healthful hashes. 

TO CUEEY CHICKEN. 

Mrs. W. Arthurs. 

Slice an onion and brown in a little butter ; add a 
spoonful of curry powder ; allow it to remain covered 
for a few minutes to cook ; add a little more butter and 
put in chicken, veal, &c., &c.; cut up small, thicken 
with a little flour. This is excellent. 

BAKED CHICKEN. 

Anonymous. 

Cut the fowls open and lay them flat in a pan, break- 
ing down the breast and the back bones ; dredge with 



VALUABLE EECIPES. 79 

flour and season well with salt and pepper, with bits of 
butter ; put in a very hot oven until done, basting fre- 
quently with melted butter ; or when half done take out 
the chicken and finish by broiling it upon a gridiron 
over bright coals ; pour over it melted butter and the 
juices in the pan in which it was baked. 

CHICKEN FEICASSEE. 

Sarah Page. 

Cut up the chickens and put on the fire in a kettle 
with cold water sufficient to cover, add a little salt or 
salt pork shced, if you like ; boil Kntil tender, and cut 
up and put in part of a head of celery. "When tender 
have ready hot baking-powder biscuits broken open and 
laid on a platter ; on this place the chicken ; thicken 
the gravy with flour moistened with water or milk, and 
pour it over the chicken and biscuits. If you prefer, 
use a good-sized piece of butter to season instead of the 
ealt pork. Oysters are an addition. 

FBIED CHICKEN. 

Mrs. Bansber. 

Cut the chicken in pieces, lay it in salt and water, 
which change several times; roll each piece in flour; 
fry in very hot lard or butter, season with salt and pep- 
per; fry parsley with them also. Make a gravy of 
cream seasoned with salt, pepper and a little mace, 
thickened with a little flour in the pan in which the 
chickens were fi'ied, pouring ofi' the lard. 



80 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

DEESSING FOR CHICKENS OE TUEKEY. 

Mrs. F. D. 

Chop bread crumbs quite fine, season well with pep- 
per, salt, and plenty of butter; moisten with a very little 
water, and add a few oysters with a little of the liquor, 
if you please. The best authorities say the dressing is 
the finest when it crumbles as the fowl is cut. 

DEESSING FOE TUEKEY. 

C. Eenuicot. 

One pint of soaked bread, two tablespoons of sage, 
two tablespoons of summer savory, two teaspoons of 
salt, two teaspoons pepper, butter size of an egg. 

CHICKEN CHEESE. 

Two chickens boiled tender, chop, but not too fine ; 
salt and pepper ; three or four eggs boiled and sliced ; 
line dishes or moulds with them ; pour in the chicken 
and the liquor they were boiled in ; when cold slice. 
Should be boiled in as little water as possible. 

CUEEY. 

Miss BrokoTski. 

To make curry with rabbit, chicken, or any" other 
meat, flour the meat and fry it a nice light brown ; fry 
also two large onions in the same way; mix a table- 
spoonful of curry powder, and a small quantity of 
cayenne in a tea cup, with warm water in the consistency 
of cream, and cover every part of the meat with the 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 81 

«iixture ; have ready some nice stock or thin gravy ; 
put all together into a stew-pan, and let it stew gently 
for twenty minutes; before serving slice two or three 
apples, let them stew away ; this addition is thought to 
be a great improvement, as it makes the curry milder; 
rice to be boiled very dry and served around the dish. 

JELLIED CHICHEN. 

M. A. T. 

Boil a fowl until it will slip easily from the bones ; let 
the water be reduced to about one pint in boiling ; pick 
the meat from the bones in good sized pieces, taking out 
all gristle, fat, and bones; place in a wet mould; skim the 
fat from the liquor ; a little butter ; pepper and salt to 
the taste and one half ounce of gelatine. When this dis- 
solves, pour it hot over the chicken. The liquor must be 
seasoned pretty high, for the chicken absorbs. 

CHICKEN PIE. 

Mrs. H. 

Stew chickens until tender; line the sides of a deep pie 
dish with nice pastry ; put in the chicken, and the water 
in which it has boiled, (which should be but half a pint) ; 
season with a large piece of butter, salt and pepper, and 
then cover loosely with crust. While this is baking, 
have ready a quart can of fine oysters ; put on the fire a 
pint of rich milk, (or the liquor of the oysters will do); 
let it come to a boil; thicken with a little flour, and 
season with butter, pepper, and salt ; pour this over the 
oysters boiling hot, and about fifteen minutes before the 



82 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

pie is done, lift the crust and pour the oysters and all into 
the pie ; then return to the oven to finish. 

CHICKEN LOAF. 

Mrs. W. H. Low. 

Take two chickens, boil them in as little water as pos- 
sible until the meat will drop from the bones ; cut it with 
a knife and fork, then put it back into the kettle ; put in 
plenty of butter, pepper and salt; heat it thoroughly; 
boil an egg hard and slice it and place it in the bottom 
of a dish ; pour it in hot, place a weight upon it, and put 
it away to cool ; it will come out in form. 

CHICKEN CEOQUETTES. 

Marion Harlan d. 

Minced chicken ; about one-quarter as much fine bread 
crumbs as you have of meat ; one egg beaten light to 
each cup of meat ; gravy enough to moisten the crumbs 
and chicken ; or, if you have no gravy, a little drawn 
butter ; pepper and salt and chopped parsley to taste ; 
yolks of two hard boiled eggs rubbed fine with the back 
of a silver spoon, added to the meat ; mix up into a paste 
with as little handling as may be ; nor must the paste be 
too wet to mould readily ; make with floured hands into 
Usro or ovate balls, roll in flour until weU coated, and 
fry a few at a time, lest crowding should injure the 
shape, in nice dripping, or a mixture half lard and half 
Dutter. As you take them out lay in a hot colander, 
that every drop of fat may be drained off. Serve in a 
heated dish with cresses or parsley. 



VALUABLE BECIPES. 88 

CHICKEN CEOQUETTES. 

Mrs. J. A. Ellifl. 

Fo'ui* and one-half pounds chicken boiled and chopped 
Vwry fine; moisten to a thick pulp with the liquor in 
"which it has been boiled. Mix with this a pint and a 
half of mashed potatoes, beaten to a cream ; three eggs, 
one teaspoon of mustard, sweet majoram, salt and pepper 
to taste; a little celery chopped very fine; soften with 
milk till very soft, and add a quarter of a pound of butter. 
Mould into forms, dip in egg and cracker dust, and fry 
in boiling lard. 

CHICKEN PATES. 

Mince chicken that has been previously roasted or 
boiled, and season weU ; stir into this a sauce made of 
half a pint of milk, into which while boiling a teaspoon- 
ful of com starch has been added to thicken , season with 
butter, about a teaspoonful, and salt and pepper to 
taste. Have ready small pate pans lined with a good 
pujff paste. Bake the crust in a brisk oven ; then fill the 
pans and set in the oven a few minutes to brown very 
slightly. 

DUCKS. 

ML3 S. P. 

When roasted, use dressing as for turkey, with the 
addition of a few slices of onion. Many cooks lay over 
the game sHces of onions, which take away the fishy 
flavour, removing the onion before serving. Make a 
sauce with the drippings in the pan in which the game 



84 tHE HOME COOK B002. 

is roasted, and to which are put the chopped giblets, 
which are previously well cooked ; thicken the gravy with 
brown flour, moistened with water. Serve with currant 
jeUy. 

EOAST GOOSE. 

Stuff and roast in the same manner as ducks. Many 
cooks cover poultry with a paste of flour and water while 
baking, removing it before it is served. 

TO EOAST WILD FOWL. 

M. A. T. 

Put an onion, salt and hot water into a pan, and baste 
for ten or fifteen minutes ; change the pan ; put in a slice 
of salt pork and baste with butter and pork drippings very 
often ; just before serving dredge lightly with flour and 
baste. Ducks take from twenty-five to thirty-five minutes 
to roast, and woodcock and snipes fifteen to twenty-five. 

Do not draw or take off the heads of either. Garnish 
with fried or toasted bread, lemon, parsley, and currant 
jelly. 

PEAIEIE CHICKENS. PAETEIDGES, AND QUAILS. 

Miss Sarah Page. 

Clean nicely, using a little soda in the water in which 
they are washed; rinse them and dry, and then fill them 
with dressing, sewing them up nicely, and binding down 
the legs and wings with cords. Put them in a steamer 
over hot water, and let them cook until just done. Then 
place then in a pan with a little butter ; set them in the 



VALUABLE EECIPES. 85 

oven and baste them frequently with melted bntter until 
of a nice brown. They ought to brown nicely in about 
fifteen minutes. Serve them on a platter, with sprigs of 
parsley alternating with currant jelly. 

QUAIL ON TOAST. 

After the birds are nicely cleaned, cut them open down 
the back ; salt and pepper them, and dredge with flour. 
Break down the breast and back-bgnes, so they will lie flat, 
and place them in a pan with very little water and but- 
ter in a hot oven, covering them up tightly until nearly 
done. Then place them in a spider in hot butter, and fry 
a moment to a nice brown. Have ready slices of baker's 
bread toasted, and slightly buttered upon a platter. The 
toast should be broken down with a carving knife, so that 
it will be tender. On this place the quail ; make a sauce 
of the gravy in the pan, thicken lightly with browned flour, 
and pour over each quail and the toast. 

A SUGGESTION. 

M. A. T. 

Singe all poultry with alcohol, and dip quails into clari- 
fied butter for broiling. 

PEESSED CHICKEN. 

Mrs. C. Belford. 

Cut up the fowls and place in a kettle with a tight cover, 
so as to retain the steam; put about two teacups of water 
and plenty of salt and pepper over the chicken, then let 
it cook until the meat cleaves easily from the bones, cut 



86 THE HOME COOK BOOK 

or chop all the meat (freed from skin, bone and gristle) 
about as for chicken salad ; season well, put into a dish 
and pour the remnant of the juice in which it was cooked 
over it. This will jelly when cold, and can then be sliced 
or set on the table in shape. Nice for tea or lunch. The 
knack of making this simple dish is not having too much 
water ; it will not jelly if too weak, or if the water is 
allowed to boil away entirely while cooking. 

PIOEON PIE. 

Mrs. L. 

Make a fine puff paste ; lay a border of it around a large 
dish, and cover the bottom with a veal cutlet, or a very 
tender steak free from fat and bone ; season with salt, 
cayenne pepper, and mace. Prepare as many pigeons as 
can be put in one layer of the dish; put in each pigeon a 
small lump of butter, and season with pepper and salt ; 
lay them in the dish breast downwards, and cut in slices 
a half dozen of hard boiled eggs, and lay in with the birds ; 
put in more butter, some veal broth, and cover the whole 
with crust. Bake slowly for an hour and a half. 



MEATS. 



— " Cook, Bee all yottr saweei 
Be sharp and poynant in the palate, that they may 
Commend you ; look to your roast and baked meats hanilaomdy. 
And what new kickshaws and delicate made things." 

— ^BaAUMOirr abo Flbtchsb. 

GENEEAL RULES FOR COOKLNG MEATS. 

All salt meat should be put on in cold water, that the 
salt may be extracted while cooking. Fresh meat, which 
is boiled to be served with sauces at the table, should be 
put to cook in boiling water; when the outer fibres con- 
tract, the inner juices are preserved. 

For making soup, put the meat over in cold water, to 
extract the juices for the broth. 

In boUing meats, if more water is needed, add thai 
which is hot, and be careful to keep the water on the 
meat constantly boUing. 

Remove the scum when it first begins to boil. The 
more gently meat boils, the more tender it will become. 
Allow twenty minutes for boiling each pound of fresh 
meat. 

Roast meats require a brisk fire. Baste often. Twenty 
minutes is required for roasting each pound of fresh 
meat. The variation in roasted meats consists simply 



88 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

in the method of preparing them to cook, before putting 
them in the oven. Some are to be larded, some stuffed 
with bread dressing, and others plain, only seasoning 
with pepper and salt. 

A piece of red pepper, cooked in a boiled dinner, is 
very nice. 

EOAST BEEF. 

Mrs. C. Belford. 

Prepare for the oven by dredging lightly with flour, 
and seasoning with salt and pepper ; place in the oven, 
and baste frequently while roasting. Allow a quarter 
of an hour for a pound of meat, if you like it rare ; 
longer if you like it well done. Serve with a sauce, 
made from the drippings in the pan, to which has been 
added a tablespoon of Harvey or Worcestershire sauce, 
and a tablespoon of tomato catsup. 

YOEKSHIEE PUDDING. 

Mrs. W. Gale. 

One and a half pints milk, six large tablespoonfula 
flour, three eggs, one saltspoonful salt ; bake under the 
meat for one hour and a half. 

YOEKSHIEE PUDDING. 

Mrs. Joseph B. Leake. 

To be eaten with roast beef, instead of a vegetable. 
Three tablespoons flour, mixed with one pint of milk, 
three eggs and a little salt. Pour into a shallow tin 
baking pan ; put into oven, an hour before dinner, for 



VALUABLE EECIPES/ 89 

ten minutes ; then put it under the roasting beef and 
leave it till you take up the beef ; leave it in about five 
minutes after you take up the beel ; then pour off the 
fat and send it to the tabic. 

BEEFSTEAK AND MUSHEOOMS. 

Mrs. Perry H. Smith. 

Put in a saucepan one ounce of butter, a small onion 
chopped fine, a little ground sage, and a little thyme, 
and put it over the fire ; when hot, shake in two table- 
spoons of flour, and when it becomes brown, put in one 
gill of water, and let it boil for half an hour. Then add 
three tablespoons of beef stock, a little salt, a little 
nutmeg and one wine glass of sherry wine. Put in one 
can of mushrooms, and let it boil for ten minutes. Pour 
this over a nicely broiled beefsteak. 

BROILED BEEFSTEAK. 

Lay a thick tender steak upon a gridiron over hot 
coals, having greased the bars with butter before the 
steak has been put upon it ; (a steel gridiron with slender 
bars is to be preferred, the broad flat iron bars of grid- 
irons commonly used fry and scorch the meat, impart- 
ing a disagreeable flavour). When done on one side, 
have ready your platter warmed, with a little butter on 
it ; lay the steak upon the platter with the cooked side 
down, that the juices which have gathered may run on 
the platter, but do not press the meat ; then lay your 
beefsteak again upon the gridiron quickly and cook the 
other side. When done to your liking, put again on the 



90 '^ THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

platter, spread lightly with butter, place where it will keep 
warm for a few moments, but not to let the butter be- 
come oily, (oyer boiling steam is best) ; and then serve 
on hot plates. Beefsteak should never be seasoned with 
salt and pepper while cooking. If your meat is tough, 
pound well with q. steak mallet on both sides. 

BEEF LOAF. 

Mrs. Carson. 

Three and a half pounds veal or beef, minced very fine, 
and uncooked ; four large crackers, crushed very fine ; 
one egg, one cup of milk, butter size of an egg, one 
tablespoon salt, one of pepper ; mix in shape of a loaf, 
and bake in a slow oven two hours and a half, basting 
often ; to be eaten cold ; very nice for tea or lunch. 

BEEP EN MIEOTON. 

Mrs. S. McMaster. 

Cut thin slices of cold roast beef, and put them into a 
frying pan with some butter and six onions, turn the 
pan frequently, then mix a little broth, add pepper and 
salt, and after a ijw boils serve up hot. 

BEEP WITH TOMATOES. 
Mrs. P. B. Ayer. 

Eight poundn iresh plats beef, second cut broiled; boil 
tender two quarts tomatoes, three cloves, plenty butter, 
pepper and salt ; when cocked nicely and thick, strain 
through a colander ar.d pour over your beef and servfl 
bot or cold. 



Valuable becepes. 91 

TO BOIL COKNED BEEP. 

Mrs. J. Beaty. 

Put the beef in water enongh to cover it, and let it, 
heat slowly, and boil slowly, and be careful to take ofl 
the grease. Many think it much improved by boiling 
potatoes, turnips, and cabbages with it. In this case 
the vegetables must be pealed and all the grease care- 
fully skimmed as fast as it rises. AUow about twenty 
minutes of boiling for each pound of meat. 

BEEF OR VEAL STEWED WITH APPLES. 

Mrs. James Beaty. 

Eub a stewpan with butter ; cut the meat in thin 
slices, and put in with pepper, salt, and apple, shced 
fine : some would add a little onion. Cover it tight, 
fuid stew till tender. 



DOMESTIC RECEIPTS. 



TO COOK A HAM (VERY FINE). 

Mrs. J. Beaty. 

Boil a common-sized ham four or five hours, then 
skin the whole and fit it for the table ; then set it in an 
oven for half an hour, then cover it thickly with pounded 
rusk or bread crumbs, and set it back for half an hour. 
Boiled ham is always improved by setting it into an 
oven for nearly an hour, till much of the fat fries out ; 
and this also makes it more tender. 

TO BOIL A LEG OF VEAL OR MUTTON. 

Miss Kate Beaty. 

Make a stuffing of bread and a quarter as much of 
salt pork, chopped fine and seasoned with sweet herbs, 
pepper and salt. Make deep gashes, or, what is better, 
take out the bone with a carving-knife and fill up with 
stuffing, and sew up the opening with strong thread. 
When there is a flap of flesh lap it over the opening and 
sew it down. Put it into a large pot and fill it with 
water, putting in a tablespoonful of salt, and let it sim- 
mer slowly three hours. If it is needful to add water 
pour in boiling \» ater. 



TALUABLE BECIPES. 93 

SALLIE MUNDER'S WAY OF DRESSING COLD 
MEAT. 

Mince beef or mutton, small, with onions, pepper and 
salt ; add a little gravy, put into scallop shells or smal 
cups, making them three parts full, and fill them up 
with potatoes mashed with a little cream, put a bit of 
butter on the top and brown them in an oven. 

BOILED BEEF (COLD). 

Madame E. Pernet. 

To use next day or when you like, for breakfast. 

Melt a good lump of butter, about two ounces, over a 
slow fire, into a tablespoonful of flour; when it has 
simmered a little add some chopped onion (to taste) and 
a dessert spoonful of chopped parsley when brown ; 
season with pepper and add a little stock or gravy, or 
water ; mince the meat, put it in with the rest, and let 
it heat gradually ; when nearly boiling thicken with a 
teaspoonful of flour. Add a little catsup or sauce of 
any kind. 

A LA MODE BEEF. 

Miss Sarah Page. 

Take a piece of beef four or five inches thick, and 
with a knife make small holes entirely through it 
at slight distances apart. Then take strips of fat salt 
pork, roU them in pepper and cloves. Lay on a pan, 
cover closely, and put over in a steamer, and steam for 
three hours. When done thicken the gravy in the pan 
with a little flour. This is excellent when eatsn as cold 
meat. 



94 YHE HOME OOOK BOCK. 

MOCK DUCK. 

Mrs. 0. C. Slrattoa. 

Take the round of beefsteak, salt anil pepi^er either 
side : prepare bread or crackers with oysters or with- 
out, as for stuffing a turkey ; lay your stuffing on the 
meat ; sew up and roast about an hour ; and if you do 
not see the wings and legs you will think you have roast 
duck. 

BEEF OMELET. 

Mrs. S. B. Adams. 

Four pounds of round beef, uncooked, chopped fine ; 
six eggs beaten together ; five or six soda crackers rolled 
fine, little butter and suet, pepper, salt, and sage, if 
you choose; make two loaves, roll in cracker; bake 
about an hour ; slice when cold. 

SPICED BEEF. 

Mrs. E. B. Harmon. 

Four pounds of round of beef chopped fine ; tata 
from it all fat ; add to it three dozen small crackers 
rolled fine, four eggs, one cup of milk, one tablespoon 
ground mace, two tablespoons of black pepper, ono 
tablespoon melted butter ; mix well and put in any tin 
pan that it will just fill, packing it well ; baste with 
butter and water, and bake two hours in a slow oven. 

MEAT FEOM SOUP BONES. 

Mrs. DeForest. 

Before thickening the soup or putting in the vege- 
tables, take out a large bowl of the Hq^uor ; take tho 



VALUABLE EECIPES. 95 

meat from the bones, chop it fine, season with catsup 
and spices ; pour over the liquor, which should be thick 
enough to jelly when cold ; putj into moulds and serve 
cold in slices. 

BEEF CEOQUETTES. 

Mrs. J. B. B. 

Chop fine some cold beef; beat two. eggs and mix 
with the meat and add a little milk, melted butter, and 
salt and pepper. Make into rolls and fry. 

BEEF CAEES FOE A SIDE DISH OF DEESSED 
MEAT. 

Mrs. S. McMaster, Toronto. 

Pound some beef that is underdone with a little fat 
bacon or ham ; season with pepper and salt, and a little 
shalot or garlic. Mis them well, and make into smaU 
cakes three inches long and half as wide and thick ; fry 
them a light brown, and serve them in a good thick 
gravy. 

BEEF OB VEAL LOAF. 

Three pounds of meat chopped fine with one-fourth 
of a pound of salt pork, six Boston crackers powdered 
fine, one sheet of Cooper's isinglass dissolved in a coffee- 
cup of warm water, one tablespoon of butter, one tea- 
spoon of salt, and one of pepper, one of powdered cloves, 
or a nutmeg grated. Mix well together with two eggs ; 
bake one hour. This will slice well when cold. 



96 THE HOME COOK BOOK» 

PEESERVED BEEP. 

Mrs. Carter. 

For preserving one hundred pounds beef : Six pounds 
salt, two ounces salt-petre, two tablespoons soda, two 
pounds sugar, four gallons water; mix well together; 
sprinkle the bottom of the barrel with salt ; put in the 
beef with very little salt between each layer ; pour over 
the brine and put on a weight to keep all well covered. 

TO GOEN BEEF. 

Mrs. A. M. Gibba. 

To each gallon of cold water, put one quart of rock 
salt, one ounce of salt-petre and four ounces of brown 
sugar, (it need not be boiled), as long as any salt remains 
undissolved, the meat will be sweet. If any scum should 
rise, scald and skim well ; add more salt, salt-petre and 
sugar ; as you put each piece of meat into the brine, rub 
over with salt. If the weather is hot, gash the meat to 
the bone, and put it in salt. Put a flat stone or some 
weight on the meat Jio keep it under the brine. 

Or this: To every four gallons of water allow two 
pounds of brown sugar and six pounds of salt, boil about 
twenty minutes, taking off the scum; the next day turn 
it on the meat packed in the pickling tub ; pour off this 
brine ; boil and strain every two months, adding three 
ounces of brown sugar and half a pound of common salt. 
It will keep good a year. Sprinkle the meat with salt 
the next day, wipe dry before turning the pickle over it. 
Let it entirely cover the meat ; add four ounces salt-petre. 
Canvas lids are excellent for covering, as they admit tlit 



VALUABLE RECIPES, 97 

air and exclude flies. Mutton and beef may be kept 
sweet several weeks by simply rubbing well with dry salt 
and closely covering. Turn the pieces whenever the 
vessel is uncovered. 

BOILED TONGUE WITH TOMATO SAUCE. 

Mrs. J. Ellis. 

Half boil a tongue, then stew it with a sauce made of 
a little broth, flour, parsley, one small onion, one small 
carrot, salt and pepper, and one can of tomatoes cooked 
and strained. Lay the tongue on a dish and strain the 
sauce oirer it. 

VEAL CAKE. 

Uiss BrokoTsM. 

Butter your mould, then put in a layer of veal and 
ham, cut in thin slices, season it with cayenne, salt, a 
little beaten mace, some parsley, and a very little sha- 
lot, some eggs boiled hard and cut in slices ; press it 
down and bake it, make a little veal gravy with a few 
shreds of Isinglass, strain it, and add a small quantity 
of catsup, pour it over hot, when cold turn it out. 

PICKLED POEK (EQUAL TO FEESH). 

Mrs. Dr. OUphani. 

Let the meat cool thoroughly, cut into pieces four to 
six inches wide, weigh them and pack as tight as possi- 
ble, salting lightly. Cover the meat with brine as strong 
as possible. Next day pour off a gallon of the brine 
and mix with it a tablespoonful of saltpetre for every 



98 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

hundred pounds of meat, and return it to the barrel. 
Let it stand one month, take out the meat and let it 
drain twelve hours. Put the brine into an iron kettle, 
add a quart of molasses or two pounds sugar, and boil 
till clear. When cold return the meat to the barrel and 
pour on the brine. Cover it close, and you will have 
the sweetest meat you ever tasted. 

STEWED TONGUE. 

Mrs. J. Ellis. 

Cut square fillets of bacon, which dredge with a mix- 
ture of chopped parsley, salt, pepper, and a little allspice. 
Lard the tongue with the fillets ; put ip a sauce-pan 
two ounces of bacon out in slices, four sprigs of parsley, 
two of thyme, a little garlic, two cloves, two carrots cut 
in small pieces, two small onions, salt and pepper. Lay 
the tongue on the whole ; wet with a glass of white 
wine and a glass of broth. Set it on a moderate fire 
and simmer about five hours, keeping it well covered. 
Put the tongue on a dish and strain the sauce over it. 

BOILED LEG OF MUTTON. 

Mrs. G. Brown. 

Boil well in clear water until tender, seasoning the 
water with salt; serve with egg sauce, and garnish 
with parsley, sliced lemons, or some sour jelly. 

MUTTON A LA VENISON. 

Mrs. J. B. L. 

Take a leg of mutton and lard it well with strips o' 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 99 

salt pork inserted in deep slits in the meat, wtich has 
been previously rolled in pepper and cloves ; bake two 
j hours or according to the size of the roast, basting fre- 
quently while in the oven ; about an hour before serving, 
spread over it currant jelly, return to the oven and let 
it brown. 

MUTTON CHOPS. 

Cut them nicely, clearing away all ragged ends and 
edges ; fry for a fevv moments covered closely, and then 
dip each piece in cracker crumbs and beaten egg, or you 
may prepare them as lor frying ; then, lay them in a 
dripping pan, and put into the oven to bake ; baste fre- 
quently with a little melted butter and water. 

EOAST VEAL. 

Mrs. D. S. F. 

Prepare a leg of veal for the oven, by washing, dry- 
ing, and larding it with strips of fat bacon or ham, and 
dredging it well with flour, and seasoning with salt and 
pepper; baste frequently and serve with the gravy 
thickened. A roast fillet of veal should be prepared by 
stuffing it with bread crumbs, seasoned with chopped 
ham, summer savory, pepper and salt. Dredge lightly 
with flour and bake. 

NECK PIECE OR SHOULDER OP VEAL. 

Urs. 0. 0. Stratton. 

Put a piece ot butter the size of an egg into a kettle ; 
put it on the stove ; when it begins to fry, put in the 



100 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

veal, season it and let it fry until brown ; then add 
water sufi&cient to cook it. When done take cream and 
flour well stirred, and thicken as for fricasseed chicken, 
and you have a nice dinner, very like chicken and much 
cheaper. Two pounds of veal will make a dinner for 
six or eight, providing it is not all bone. 

VEAL PATES. 

Mrs. H. Baird. 

Chop some cold veal fine, moisten with cream and an 
egg, beaten; season with salt, sweet marjoram, and 
powdered mace ; then make up with the hands in the 
shape of cones or patty-cakes, and roll in crumbs. 
Either fry in a buttered pan or bake in a hot oven. 

PATE OP VEAL. 

Mrs. L. J, Tilton. 

Three and one-half pounds of the leg of veal, fat and 
lean, chopped fine; six or eight small crackers rolled fine ; 
two eggs, piece of butter the size of an egg, one table- 
spoon of salt, one of pepper, and one of nutmeg; a shce 
of salt pork chopped fine. Work all together in the 
form of a loaf; put bits of butter and grate bread 
crumbs over the k)p. Bake two hours; to be cut in 
slices when cold. 

VEAL CUTLETS, A LA FEIED OYSTERS. 

Mrs. A. M. Gibbs. 

Cut the veal in small pieces three or four inches 
square ; dry with a towel ; season to taste ; have ready 



VALUABLE BECIPES. 101< 

ft beaten egg and crackers rolled fine, each on separate 
dishes ; dip each piece of the cutlet in the egg, then in 
the rolled cracker ; have enough lard or butter hot in 
your spider so that it will nearly cover the cutlets when 
you put them in. A rich gravy can be made after the 
meat is done by adding a Uttle boiling water. 

HASHEL LAMB OR MUTTON— COLD MEAT 
COOKERY. 

Madame E. Fernet. 

Take your bones, and stew them in a little water with 
an onion, some salt and pepper, and, if you like, a little 
savoury herbs; when the goodness is all out of the 
bones, and it tastes nice, thicken the gravy with a tea- 
spoonful of corn starch, and if it is not very strong put 
in a bit of butter, then place your stew pan on the hot 
hearth, and put in your slices of meat. Warm but not 
boil. Serve with toasted bread. 

SPICED VEAL. 

Mrs. G. E. Brovn. 

Take four pounds veal, chop it fine and season highly 
with salt, pepper, cloves, and cinnamon; add four -small 
crackers rolled out, one egg, and a lump of butter nearly 
the size of an egg ; mix thoroughly together and press it 
in a baking tin, and bake two and a half hours. When 
thoroughly cold, slice for tea. Some prefer it in rolls, 
convenient for sHcing, and baked from one-half to three 
quarters of an hour. 



\ 



10^ THE HOME OOOE BOOS. 

JELLIED VEAL. 

M. A. T. 

Boil the real tender, pick it up fine, put in a mould, 
add the water it was boiled in, and set it in a cold place ; 
season with salt and pepper to taste ; a layer of bard 
boiled eggs improves it. 

FEICANDEAU. 

Mrs. J. M. Brown and Mrs. M. L. 

Three and one-half pounds of cold roast veal chopped 
fine, one tablespoon of salt and one of pepper, one-half 
of a nutmeg, four or five rolled crackers, three eggs. K 
the veal is thin, add a piece of butter half as large as an 
egg, and tablespoon of cream. Form all this in a large 
roll, and spot the roll over with bits of butter ; then 
strew over it the pounded crackers, (a little of the cracker 
should be mixed with the meat), put it in the oven, and 
from time to time add a little water. Cook slowly two 
hours. When cold, slice thin, and it makes an excellent 
relish. 

SWEET BBEADS. 

Scald in salt and water, take out the stringy parl/i > 
then put in cold water a few minutes ; dry in a to-w el ; 
dip in egg and bread crumbs, and fry brown in butter ; 
when done place in a hot dish ; pour into the pan a cup 
of sweet cream, a little pepper and salt, and a little 
parsley chopped fine ; add flour, and when boiling pout 
over the sweet breads ; add mushrooms, if desired. 



▼ALUABLE EECIPES. 103 

SWEET BEEADS— BEOILED. 

Mrs. Bates. 

Parboil, rub them well with butter, and broil on a clean 
gridiron ; turn them often, and now and then roll them 
over in a plate containing hot melted butter, to prevent' 
them from getting hard and dry. 

CALF'S LIVEE— FKIED. 
• 

Cut in thin slices ; wash and drain them, roll them in 

com meal or cracked crumbs, and fry in fresh or salt 

pork gravy or butter. 

CALF'S LIVEE— STEWED. 

Boil till partly done ; take out of the sauce-pan ; chop 
in small pieces ; put back in the sauce-pan ; skim well ; 
stew until tender ; season with butter, pepper and salt ; 
thicken with a Uttle flour, and serve over slices of toastec 
bread. 

CALF'S LIVEE-MAEINE. 

Mrs. J. M. Aycr. 

Lard the liver; add pepper and salt sufficient to 
season it, then roll and tie it ; cut two onions in thin 
shces and lay in the bottom of an earthen crock ; add 
two slices of salt pork cut thin, and lay the liver on 
that J add more pepper and salt, a little vinegar and 
salad oU, and set in a cool place for twenty-four hours. 
Cook over a slow fire from half-past two until six; a 
wine-glass of claret added at half-past four is excellent. 



104 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

This is arranged for dinner at night ; of course the rule 
for time will do for noon dinner. Easily mistaken for 
canvas-back duck. 

TO EOAST VENISON. 

Mrs. Porter. 

Wash a saddle of venison thoroughly in several 
waters, then rub it over with vinegar, red pepper, and a 
little salt ; lard with strips of salt pork rolled in seasoned 
bread crumbs ; season if you like, with sweet marjoram 
and sweet basil, one teaspoon each, also pepper ; then 
rub the whole with currant jelly, and pour over it 
one bottle of claret wine. Let it stand aU night, and 
next morning cover the venison with a paste made of 
flour and water half an inch thick ; then cover with 
soft paper, and secure well with strings ; place it in the 
dripping-pan with some claret, butter, and water, and 
baste very often ; half an hour before you take it up, 
remove paste and paper, baste it with butter and dredge 
with flour to make it brown. 

Foe Sauce. — Take a pound and a half of scraps of 
venison, with three pints of water, a few cloves, a few 
blades of mace, one-half a nutmeg, and salt and cayenne 
pepper to taste ; boil it down to a pint, skim Off the fat 
and strain ; add half a pint of currant jelly, one pint of 
claret and one-quarter pound of butter, divided into bits 
and rolled in flour. 

TO COOK SLICED HAM (VERY NICE). 

Madame E. Pemet. 

Cut raw ham in slices, soak in scalding water half an 
hour, lay your slices in a frying pan, pepper each, and 



VALUABLE RECnES. 105 

lay on each slice a little made mustard ; pour in half a 
teaspoonful of vinegar to each slice ; fry quickly, turn 
often. "When done take out, serve on a dish ; add to 
the gravy a spoonful of wine, (if you have any handy), 
and a teaspoonful of sugar. Boil up once ; pour over 
your ham, and serve. 

OXFORD SAUSAGE. 

M. A. Sadler. 

Take one pound of young pork, fat and lean, without 
skin or gristle, one pound of loan veal, one pound of 
beef suet chopped very fine together. Put in half a 
pooid of bread crumbs, six sage leaves, a teaspoon of 
pepper and two of salt, some thyme, marjoram and 
savoury shred fine. Mix well together. 

SAUSAGES. 

IfCrs. G. Bradley and others. 

Six pounds of lean fresh pork, twelve teaspoons of 
sage, and six teaspoons of pepper, six teaspoons of salt, 
(and two of cloves, and one nutmeg, if you prefer), 
grind or chop very fine ; mix these mgredients thor- 
oughly, and pack in a jar, and pour hot lard over the 
top. 

HAM SANDWICHES. 

Mtb. W. Butterfield. 

Chop fine some cold boiled ham, a little fat with the 
lean ; add tongue and chicken also chopped fine ; make 



106 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

a dressing of one half a pound of butter, three table- 
spoons of salad oil, three of mustard, the yolk of one 
egg, and a little salt ; mix well together and spread over 
the meat smoothly on thin slices of bread. Very nice. 

TBAVELLING LUNCH. 

Mra. J. L. B. 

Chop sardines, ham, and a few picMes quite fine ; mix 
with mustard, pepper, catsup, salt, and vinegar; spread 
between bread nicely buttered. This is to be cut cross- 
wise, like jelly cake. 

BAKED HAM. 

Mrs. W. G. Davis. 

Most persons boil ham. It is much better baked, 
if baked right. Soak it for an hour in clean water and 
wipe it dry, next spread it all over with thin batter, and 
then put it into a deep dish with sticks under it to keep 
it out of the gravy. When it is fully done and the 
batter crusted on the flesh side, take off the skin and set 
it away to cool. 

bohjEd ham. 

' Mrs. C. Waggoner. 

Take a ham weighing about eight or ten pounds ; soak 
it for twelve or twenty-four hours in cold water ; then 
cover it with boiling water, add one pint of vinegar, two 
ox three bay-leaves, a little bunch of thyme and parsley, 
(the dried and sifted will do, or even the seeds of parsley 
may be used, if the fresh cannot be procured) ; boil very 



VALUABLE EECTPIS. 107 

slowly two hours and a half, take it out, skim it, remove 
all the fat, except a layer half an inch thick ; cut off with 
a sharp knife all the black-looking outside ; put the ham 
into your dripping pan, fat side uppermost, grate bread 
crust over it and sprinkle a teaspoon of powdered sugar 
over it ; put it in the oven for half an hour, until it is a 
beautiful brown. Eat cold; cut the nicest portion in 
slices; the ragged parts and odds and ends can be 
chopped fine and used for sandwiches; or, by adding 
three eggs to one pint of chopped ham, and frying brown, 
you have a delicious omelet for breakfast or lunch. The 
bones should be put in a soup-kettle, the rind and fat 
should be rendered and strained for frying potatoes and 
crullers. Ham cooked in this way will go much farther 
than when cooked in the ordinary manner. 

BOILED AND BAKED HAM. 

Mrs. P. B. Ayer. 

Boil your ham tender ; cover it with the white of a raw 
egg, and sprinkle sugar or bread crumbs over it ; put it 
in the oven and brown ; it is delicious also covered with 
a regular cake icing and browned. 

TO BOIL A HAM. 

M. 

Wash and scrape the ham clean; put it on in cold 
water enough to cover it ; put into the water two onions, 
two carrots, a head of celery, a dozen cloves and a hand- 
ful of timothy hay ; boil without stopping untU the skin 
will readily peel from the ham ; cover the ham with rolled 



108 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

crackers, or bread crumbs that have been browned and 
rolled, and bake in a slow oven for two hours. 

SALTING POEK. 

A. M.:a. 

Cover the bottom of the barrel with salt an inch deep ; 
put down one layer of pork and cover that with salt half 
an inch thick; continue this until all your pork is disposed 
of; then cover the whole with strong brine; pack as 
tight as possible, the rind side down or next to the barrel; 
keep the pork always under the brine by using an inner 
cover and clean stones. Should any scum arise, pour 
off the brine, scald it, and add more salt. Old brine can 
be boiled down, well skimmed, and used for a fresh supply. 

CUEING HAMS. 

> Mrs. Mulford. 

Hang up the hams a week or ten days, the longer the 
tenderer and better, if kept perfectly sweet; mix for 
each good-sized ham, one teacup of salt, one tablespoon 
of molasses, one ounce of salt-petre ; lay the hams in a 
clean dry tub ; heat the mixture and rub well into the 
hams, especially around the bones and recesses ; repeat 
the process once or twice, or until all the mixture is 
used ; then let the hams lie two or three days, when 
they must be put for three weeks in brine strong enough 
to bear an egg ; then soak eight hours in cold water ; 
hang up to dry in the kitchen or other more convenient 
place for a week or more ; smoke from three to five 
days, being careful not to heat the hams. Corn cobi 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 109 

and apple-tree wood are good for smoking. The juices 
are better retained if smoked with the hock down. Tie 
up carefully in bags for the summer. 



SALADS, SAUCES, AND PICKLES. 



•* To make tliis condiment, your poet begs 
The powdered yellow of two hard-boiled eggs ; 
Two boiled potatoes, passed through the kitchen sieve. 
Smoothness and softness to the salad give ; 
Let onions atoms luik within the bowl, 
And, half suspected, animate the whole ; 
Of mordant mustard, add a single spoon ; 
Distrust the condiment that bites so soon ; 
But, deem it not, thou man of herbs, a fault 
To add a double quantity of salt ; 
Four times the spoon with oil from Lueoa crown, 
And twice with vinegar, procured from town ; 
And lastly, o'er the flavoured compound tosa 
A magic toupcon of anchovy sauce. 
0, green and glorious 1 0, herbaceous treat I 
'Twould tempt the dying anchorite to eat ; 
Eack to the world he'd turn his fleeting soul, 
And plunge his fingers in the salad bowl ; 
Serenely full, the epicure would say, 
* Fate cannot harm me, I have dined to-day.* " 

— Sn)KE:Y Shith. 

CHICKEN SALAD. 

Mrs. Morgan. 

Cut the white meat of chickens into small bits, the 
size of peas, (also the dark meat, if you like), chop the 



no THE HOME OOOE BOOK. 

whole parts of celery nearly as small. Prepare a dress 
ing thus : Kub the yolks of hard boiled eggs smooth ; to 
each yolk put half a teaspoon of mustard, the same 
quantity of salt, a tablespoon of oil, and a wine glass of 
vinegar ; mix the chicken and celery in a large bowl and 
pour over this dressing with a little cream added. The 
dressing must not be put on till just before it is served. 

CHICKEN SALAD. 

Mrs. HigginB. 

Two chickens, chopped coarse ; eight heads of celery, 
three eggs, one piut vinegar, one tablespoon flour, one 
tablespoon sugar, rub the yolks of the eggs to a fine 
powder, then add the salt, mustard, and oil, mixing well 
together; then add the cream; and after that the 
vinegar and raw egg. 

CHICKEN SALAD. 

Mrs. Hobbs. 

Three chickens chopped fine, both light and dark 
meat ; the juice of two lemons ; eight or ten eggs boiled 
hard; the whites chopped fine and the yolks mashed 
fine, moisten with six teaspoons melted batter, two of 
sweet oil ; to which add one tablespoon oi mustard, one 
of pepper, one of salt, one of sugar, three oi cream ; and 
last, add six large bunches of celery chopped fine, with 
sufficient vinegar to moisten the whole. 

FEENCH POTATO SALAD. 

Slice some cold boiled potatoes into a salad bowl, 
sprinkle over them some parsley and a small quantity 



VALUABLE BECTPES. Ill 

of onions cut very fine, and then pour over a sauce made 
of the following ingredients : mustard, pepper, and salt, 
and a small quantity of vinegar, rub well together be- 
fore pouring in some fine olive oil, whip all till the sauce 
looks creamy, 

CHICKEN SALAD. 

Mary Norton. 

Take the breasts of four well boiled chickens, cut in 
email pieces, but not too fine ; mix with the chicken 
eight teacups of celery cut also in small pieces, and, with 
the above, the chopped whites of twelve hard-boiled 
eggs. For dressing, the yolks of four raw eggs ; beat 
into them half of an ordinary sized bottle of oUve oil, 
beginning with a teaspoon, and adding no more than 
that at a time, until it is thoroughly mixed ; then add 
the well-mashed and pulverized yolks of twelve eggs, 
salt and pepper, three tablespoons mustard, a pinch 
of cayenne pepper, and a gill of vinegar ; then stir this 
dressing thoroughly inko the mixed chicken celery and 
whites oi eggs. 

CHICKEN SALAD. 

Mrs. Farmelee. 

Boil one chicken tender, then take the meat and chop 
up, take two tablespoons of mustard, S.eggs boiled hard, 
chop the whites with the chickens, the yolks rub up fine 
with the mustard, one tablespoon of salt, three table- 
spoons melted butter, one tablespoon black pepper, 
vinegar enough to moisten it, chop three heads of celery 
to one chicken, mix all together and serve. 



112 THE HOME OOOK BOOK. 

SALAD DKESSING FOR CABBAGE OR LETTUCE, 

Mrs. Farmelee. 

Three eggs, two teaspoons black pepper, one teaspoon 
salt, one tablespoon mustard, three of melted butter, 
six teaspoons sweet cream, one coffee cup of vinegar ; 
put all together, on stove, and cook till it looks smooth 
like cream, stirring all the time to keep from burning ; 
then, when cold, put over cabbage chopped fine. 

SALAD. 

Miss Ads King. 

Two eggs boiled hard, one teaspoon mustard,^ two 
tablespoons vinegar, one cup milk, two heads celery, 
and one-half cup sugar. 

FISH SALAD. 

M. A. T. 

Boil tender a white-fish or trout ; chop fine ; add 
same quantity chopped celery, cabbage or lettuce; sea- 
son same as chicken salad. 

VEGETABLE SALAD. 

Anonymous. 

Take cold vegetables left from .dinner, such as pota- 
toes, peas, string beans, sheU beans, beets, etc., and chill 
them on the ice; cover with mayonaiso. and serve 
You may use for this any salad dressing. 



YALX7ABLE BEdPES. 113 

POTATO SALAD. 

M. A. T. 

Sliced cold boiled potatoes; almonds blanched and 
quartered ; hickory nuts, also, if liked (both of these 
may be omitted). A very small quantity of chopped 
onions ; pour over this any good salad dressing, not too 
much, and garnish with chopped parsley ; cold boiled 
beets, sliced lemon, and anchovies, may be added to the 
salad, if liked. 

ASPAKAGUS SALAD. 

Boil the asparagus in water until tender ; cut off 
the hard ends, and set the rest away. When cool, cut 
in inch long pieces, and put it in your salad dish. Pour 
over a mayonaise dressing, and garnish with a few 
capers. 

CUCUMBEE SALAD. 

Mrs. King. 

Take a dozen ripe " white spine" cucumbers ; wash, 
pare, and cut into strips, taking out the seeds ; cut into 
pieces, like small dice ; to each dozen cucumbers take 
twelve large white onions chopped ; six large green pep- 
pers, also chopped ; one-quarter pound each of black 
and white mustard seed, and a gill of celery seed ; mix 
aU well together ; add a teacup of salt, and hang up in 
a cotton bag to drain for twenty-four hours. Then add 
enough clear cold vinegar to cover it ; put into stone 
jars and fasten nearly air-tight. Li six weeks it will be 
fit for use. Excellent. 



114 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

CABBAGE SALAD. 

Mr. J. H. Mead. 

First prepare the cabbage by letting it stand for some 
time in cold water, in order to make it crisp ; dry well 
and shave as finely as possible. Choose a firm white 
cabbage. Dressing : Eub together a piece of butter the 
size of a walnut, and one tablespoon of flour ; stir in 
two tablespoons of vinegar, and scald for a minute ; then 
add the yolk of an egg (beaten) and two tablespoons of 
cream ; salt and pepper to taste. 

SALAD DBESSING FOR CHOPPED CABBAGE OR 
LETTUCE. 

Mrs. S. McMaster. 

Three eggs, two teaspoons black pepper, one teaspoon 
salt, one tablespoon mustard, three tablespoons melted 
butter, six teaspoons sweet cream, one coffee-cup of good 
vinegar. Put all on the stove and cook until it looks 
like cream, taking care to stir it all the time. 

DRESSING FOR SALAD. 

Mrs. Hoge. 

Two raw eggs, one tablespoon of butter, eight table- 
spoons of vinegar ; one-half teaspoon of mustard ; put 
in a bowl over boiling water and stir until it becomes 
. like cream ; pepper and salt to your taste. 

SALAD DRESSING. 
Mrs. A. A. Carpenter. 

The yolks of four eggs, two-thirds of a cup of oil, red 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 115 

pepper, salt and mustard to taste, the juice of two 
lemons, and last of all, one cup of thick cream. If the 
dressing is for chicken salad, use the oil or fat from the 
chicken instead of sweet oil. Be sure and put the cream 
in last, just before sending to table. 



SAUCES FOR MEAT OR FISH. 



DKAWN BUTTEB. 



Drawn butter forms the basis of most sauces. From 
this a gTeat variety may be made, by adding to this dif- 
ferent flavours — anchovies, ochra, onions, celery, par- 
sley, mint, and relishes — using those flavours, which 
are suitable for the meat, game, or fish, with which the 
sauces are to be served. A good standard receipt for 
drawn butter is as follows : 

Eub one tablespoon of flour with one-quarter of a 
pound of butter ; when weU mixed, put in a saucepan 
with a tablespoon of milk or water ; set it in a dish of 
boiling water, shaking it well until the butter melts and 
is near boiling. It should not be set directly on the 
Btove or over the coals, as the heat will make the butter 
•)ily and spoil it. 



116 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

MELTED BUTTER OR PARSLEY SAUCE. 

Miss A. C. 

One tablespoon of butter, one teaspoon of flour, rubbed 
together, one tablespoon chopped parsley, first boiled 
five minutes in water and squeezed out ; two tablespoons 
water ; shake over a clear fire, one way, until it boils ; 
add the parsley gradually. 

MINT SAUCE. 

Mrs. J. Salter. 

Mix one tablespoon of white sugar to half a teacup of 
good vinegar ; add the mint and let it infuse for half an 
hour in a cool place before sending to the table. Serve 
with roast lamb or mutton. 

CELERY SAUCE. 

Mrs. J. B. L. 

Mix two tablespoons of flour with half a teacup of 
butter ; have ready a pint of boiling milk ; stir the flour 
and butter into the milk ; take three heads of celery, cut 
into small bits, and boil for a few minutes in water, 
which strain off; put the celery into the melted butter, 
and keep it stirred over the fire for five or ten minutes. 
This is very nice with boiled fowl or turkey. 

CREAM SAUCE. 

Anonymous. 

Cream together a large tablespoon of butter with a 
little flour, and put over a gentle heat; add a little 



VILUABLE RECIPES. 117 

chopped parsley, a little grated onion, pepper, salt, and 

nutmeg ; -when these ingredients are well mixed, add half 

a pint of cream or milk and let it boil for fifteen minutes. 

If used with fresh fish, a little horse radish may be 

added. 

EGG SAUCE. 

Miss Hattie Back. 

Take the yolke of two eggs boiled hard ; mash them 

with a teaspoon of mustard, a little pepper and salt, 

three tablespoons of vinegar, and three of salad oil. A 

tablespoon of catsup improves this for some. Nice for 

boiled fish. 

EGG SAUCE. 

Mrs. C. Belford. 

Prepare drawn butter, and to this add three or four 
hard-boiled eggs sliced or chopped. 

FISH SAUCE. 

One-quarter of a pound of fresh butter ; one tablespoon 
of finely chopped parsley, a little salt and pepper and the 
juice of two lemons. Cream the butter ; mix aU weU 
together, adding at the least a teaspoon of mayonaise. 
Less lemon juice may be used if preferred. 

WHITE SAUCE FOR FOWLS. 

IfGss BrokoYskL 

Take half a pint of cream, and put some flour and 
butter mixed together to thicken it, some nutmeg grated, 
cayenne pepper, and some oyster or cucumber catsup — 
or a little of both ; stir it over the fire tni it thickens. 



118 THE HOME COOE BOOS. 

GOVEENOE'S SAUCE. 

Mrs. Mid^Iey. 

Slice a peck of green tomatoes, sprinkle salt over 

them, say about a cupful, and let them stand one night ; 

in the morning pour off the liquor, and put them in a 

kettle with vinegar enough to cover them, add six green 

r red peppers, (moderate size), four large onions 

hopped fine, one cup of brown sugar, one cup of scraped 

orse-radish, a tablespoonful of cloves, one of allspice, 

teaspoonful of cayenne, one of white pepper ; let it 

■jnmer tiU soft, put into jars and always keep it air 

ght. 

TOMATO SAUCE. 

Mrs. C. S. Horseman. 

Thirty-six ripe tomatoes, six green peppers, two 

aions chopped fine, two cups ot sugar, two tablespoons 

salt, two teaspoons of ground cloves, two teaspoons 

mustard, two teaspoons of cinnamon, two cups of 

negar, and boil half a day. 

TOMATO CHILI SAUCE. 

Mrs. n. Baird. 

Nine ripe tomatoes, peeled and cut small, red peppers 
and one onion chopped fine, one teacup vinegar, two 
tablespoons brown sugar, one tablespoon salt, one tea- 
spoon ginger, one of cloves, one of allspice, vinegar in 
last ; stew one hour. 



TALUIBLE BECIPE8. 119 

GO^^RNOE'S SAUCE. 

Mrs. H.BautL 

One peck green tomatoes, fon? large onionB, six red 
peppers, one teacup grated horse-radish, one teaspoon 
cayenne and one of black pepper, one teaspoon mus- 
tard, half cup sugar ; slice the tomatoes and sprinkle 
one teacup salt on, and lay all night ; drain well in the 
morning, then simmer all together till cooked through. 

SHIELEY SAUCE. 

Mrs. H. Baird. 

Wash, peel, and slice two dozen ripe tomatoes, four 
large onions, and four green peppers, not too large ; add 
four tablespoons sugar, one pint vinegar ; boil tomatoes 
and onions first, strain, then boil all slowly till done. 

CHILI SAUCE. 

Mrs. H. Baird. 

Twelve large ripe tomatoes, six green peppers, one 
large onion, all chopped fine, one tablespoon salt, one 
teaspoon ginger, one of cinnamon, one of allspice, one 
of cloves, one tablespoon sugar, two cups vinegar ; boil 
thick. 

WINTER SAUCE. 

Mrs. Snidex. 

One peck green tomatoes chopped fine, two dozen large 
onions peeled and chopped, one dozen green or red pep- 
pers chopped fine ; salt, pepper, and spice to suit taste ; 



120- THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

one cup brovm sugar, vinegar to cover ; pour the vinegar 
over all boiling hot, and bottle for winter use. 

ENGLISH SAUCE. 

Mrs. Snider. 

One pound brown sugar, half-pound salt, half-pound 
garlic, half-pound onions, quarter-pound pepper, quarter- 
pound ground ginger, half-pound mustard seed, one 
pound raisins, two pounds apples, half- ounce cayenne, 
two quarts vinegar. The raisins to be chopped, apples 
to be pealed and cut and boiled in one pint of the vinegar; 
garlic and onions must be chopped fine and well bruised ; 
the sugar made into a syrup with one pint of the vinegar. 
When the apples are cool, mix the whole, including the 
remainder of the vinegar ; blend well together and jar, 

TOMATO MUSTAED. 

M. B. Beard. 

One peck of ripe tomatoes ; boil with two onions, six 
red peppers, four cloves of garlic, for one hour ; then add 
a half-pint or half-pound salt, three tablespoons black 
pepper, half-ounce ginger, half-ounce allspice, half- 
ounce mace, half-ounce cloves ; then boil again for 
one hour longer, and when cold add one pint of vinegar 
and a qu&,rter-pound of mustard ; and if you like it very 
hot, a tablespoonful of cayenne. 

CHILI SAUCE. 

Mrs. E. H. Dennison. 

To nine large ripe tomatoes and three green peppers, 



Valuable eecipes. 121 

add one onion chopped fine, two cups of vinegar, two 
tablespoons of sugar, and one of salt ; steam one hour, 
then add one teaspoon of ginger, one of allspice, and one 
of cloves. 

HOESE-EADISH SAUCE. 

Two teaspoons of made mustard, two of white sugar, 
half a teaspoon of salt, and a gill of vinegar ; mix and 
pour over grated horse-radish. Excellent with beef. 

MADE MUSTARD. 

Pour a very little boiling water over three tablespoons 
of mustard ; add one saltspoon of salt, a tablespoon of 
olive oil, stirred slowly in, and one teaspoon of sugar ; 
add the yolk of an egg, beaten well, and pour in vinegar 
to taste. It is best eaten next day. 

CELEEY VINEGAR. 

Soak one ounce of celery seed in half a pint of vinegar; 
bottle it and use to flavour soups and gravies. 

SPICED CUEEANTS. 

Mrs. H. Baird. 

Six pounds cm-rants or gooseberries, five pounds 
sugar half a*pint of vinegar ; spices, cloves, and cinna- 
mon. Boil till thick. 

GOOSEBERRY CATSUP. 

Mrs. H. Baird. 

Five pints vinegar, four pounds green gooseberries, 



122 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

one-half pound brown sugar, one-half pound raisins, 
one-quarter pound currants, one-quarter pound common 
salt, two ounces mustard, two ounces onions, one-half 
ounce chilies, one-half ounce allspice, one-half ounce 
ground ginger, one-half ounce ground mace, one-half 
ounce turmeric, one nutmeg. Boil the vineg9,r, currants, 
raisins, onions, gooseberries, and chilies till quite soft, 
then pour through a fine sieve on the remaining ingre- 
dients. ' 

FEENCH PUDDING SAUCE. 

Mrs. J. H. Mead. 

Beat lour ounces butter to a cream ; stir in one- 
quarter ounce brown sugar; add the yolk of one egg 
and one gill of wine ; put it on the stove, stirring all 
the time till it simmers. Grate nutmeg over it before 
sending it to table. 

TOMATO CATSUP. 

Miss BrokoTBki. 

Boil the tomatoes until quite soft, and rub them well 
through a sieve ; to every quart add two ounces shalots 
and large red peppers, or or.e teaspoonful cayenne pep- 
per, one ounce bruised ginger, one spoonful salt, a few 
cloves ; boil until reduced one-third ; ten minutes before 
taking off the fire add a half-pint vinegar to each 
quart. 

TOMATO CATSUP. 

Mrs. George Simpson. 

Take a bushel of nice ripe tomatoes, and split, and 



tALUABLE RECIPES. 123 

Bprinkle -with salt, and lay twenty-four hours; mash 
them up and run through a sieve so as to waste nothing 
but seed and skin, and season to taste with red pepper 
and cloves ; boil until it begins to settle at the bottom of 
the kettle, then add one quart of vinegar, then bottle 
/uid seal up tight. 

TOMATO MUSTAED. 

MrB. Spence. 

Boil one peck tomatoes for one honr with six red 
peppers, strain through a colander, and add a half 
pound salt, three tablespoons of black pepper ground, 
one ounce ginger ground, one ounce allspice round, 
half ounce cloves ground, two onions ; boil for another 
hour, then add quarter pound mustard and half pint of 
vinegar, then bottle. 

GOOSEBERRY CATSUP. 

Mrs. J. B. Adams, Mrs. Henry Stevens, and Mrs. E. Harris. 

Eight pounds of ripe or partially ripe fruit, four 
pounds brown sugar, one pint of good vinegar, two ounces 
each fine cloves and cinnamon tied in a bag; boil the 
berries and sugar for three or four hours, then add 
spice ; boil a little more ; put in a jar and cover well. 
Will keep two years by occasionally scalding and add- 
ing a little vinegar and spice. 



S^VEET PICKLES. 



PICKLED CHEEEIES. 

Five pounds of cherries, stoned or not; one quart ol 
vinegar, two pounds of sugar, one-half ounce of cinna- 
mon, one-half ounce of cloves, one-half ounce of mace ; 
boil the sugar and vinegar and spices together, (grind 
the spices and tie them in a muslin bag), and pour hot 
oyer the cherries. 

PICKLED PLUMS. 

Mrs. Meek. 

To seven pounds plums, four pounds sugar, two 
ounces stick cinnamon, two ounces cloves, one quart 
vinegar, add a little mace ; put in the jar first a layer of 
plums, then a layer of spices alternately; scald the vine- 
gar and sugar together, pour it over the plums ; repeat 
three times for plums, (only once for cut apples and 
pears), the fourth time scald all together ; put them into 
glass jars and they are ready for use. 

PICKLED APPLES. 

Mrs. Watson. 

For one peck of sweet apples take three pounds of 
sugar, two quarts of vinegar, one-half ounce of cinna- 
mon, one-half ounce cloves ; pare the apples, leaving 
them whole ; boil them in part of the vinegar and sugar 



VALUABLE EECTPES, 125 

tmtil you can put a fork through them ; take them out ; 
beat the remainder of vinegar and sugar and pour over 
them. Be careful not to boil them too long or they will 
break. 

SPICED CUKRANTS TO BE EATEN WITH MEATS. 

Mrs. Carson. 

Four quarts currants, one pint of vinegar, three 
pounds sugar, one tablespoon cinnamon, one of allspice, 
one of cloves, one of nutmeg ; cook one hour; keep in cool 
place, tightly covered. 

PICKLED PEACHES. 

Mrs. C. D. Howard. 

Take five pounds of brown sugar to one gallon of pure 
cider vinegar ; boU it hard- for thirty minutes, skimming 
off the scum till clear ; rub off the peaches in the mean- 
time out of boiling water (quickly) with a flannel cloth, 
sticking four cloves in each peach ; and put a bag of cin- 
namon into the boihng syrup. If the peaches are 
clingstones, put them into the boiling syrup for fifteen 
or twenty minutes ; if freestones, lay them in the jar in 
layers, and pour the syrup over them while hot ; then 
put a small plate over to keep them from rising, and 
cover tightly with cloth or paper. In four days look at 
them, and if necessary, boil the syrup again, and pour 
on while hot; keep them in a cool place while the 
weather is hot to prevent their souring. The White 
Sugar Cling is nice for pickling, and the Blood Peach is 
very rich, but dark. SmaU pears can be pickled in th§ 
Bame manner, if the skin is taken off. 



SOUn PICKLES. 



** ^ho peppered the highest was aurest to ple»s«.* 

PEEPAEED MUSTAED. 

C. D. Adams. 

Two tablespoons mustard, one teaspoon sugar, one- 
balf teaspoon salt, boiling water enough to mix it ; when 
cold, add one tablespoon salad oil and vinegar enough 
to thin it. This will keep a week or two. 

GEEEN TOMATO PICKLE. 

Mrs, Joseph Saulter. 

Cut half-peck of green tomatoes and six large onions 
into thin sHces ; let them remain in salt and water over 
night ; then pour off the brine and put them in a preserv- 
ing kettle wdth four tablespoonsful of sugar, four of the 
best mustard, two teaspoonsful of ground cloves, two ot 
cinnamon, one of cayenne pepper, and one of curry 
powder, and let them simmer for one hour ; then put 
them in stone or glass jars. 

GEEEN TOMATO PICKLES. 

Mrs. Spence. 

Slice one peck of tomatoes into ajar, sprinkle a littla 
salt over each layer ; let them stand twenty-four hours, 
drain off the liquor ; put the tomatoes into a kettle with 
a teaspoonful of each of ths following spices : ground 



VALUABLE EECIPES. - 127 

ginger, allspice, cloves, mace, cinnamon, a teaspoonful 
of scraped horse-radish, twelve small or three large red 
peppers, three onions, a cup full of brown sugar ; cover 
all with vinegar ; boil slowly for three hours. 

Neither add to nor take from any of the ingredients or 
quantities given in the recipe, as it is perfect. 

OUDE SAUCE. 

C. Kennicott. 

One pint green tomatoes, six peppers (not large) ; four 
onions, chop together ; add one cup salt, and let it stand 
over night ; in the morning, drain off the water ; add one 
cup sugar, one cup horse-radish, one tablespoon ground 
cloves, one tablespoon cinnamon, cover with vinegar, 
and stew gently all day. 

MY MOTHER'S FAVOUEITE PICKLES. 

Mra. Savage. 

One quart raw cabbage chopped fine ; one quart boiled 
beets chopped fine ; two cups of sugar, tablespoon of 
salt, one teaspoon black pepper, one-fourth teaspoon red 
pepper, one teacup of grated horse-radish ; cover with 
cold vinegar, and keep from the air. 

MIXED PICKLES. 

Mrs. F. M. Cragin. 

Three hundred small cucumbers, four green peppers 
sliced fine, two large or three small heads cauliflower, 
three heads of white cabbage shaved fine, nine large 
onions sliced, one large root horse-radish, one quart of 



128 THE HOME COOE BOOS. 

green beans cut one incli long, one quart green tomatoes 
sliced ; put this mixture in a pretty strong brine twenty 
four hours; drain three hours, then- sprinkle in one- 
fourth pound black and one-fourth pound of white mustard 
seed ; also one tablespoon black ground pepper ; let it 
come to a good boil in just vinegar enough to cover it, 
adding a little alum. Drain again, and when cold, mix 
in one-half pint of ground mustard ; cover the whole 
with good cider vinegar ; add turmeric enough to colour, 
if you like. 

PICKLED CABBAGE. 

Mrs. A. N. Arnold. 

Select solid heads, slice very fine, put in a jar, then 
cover with boiling water ; when cold, drain off the water, 
and season with grated horse-radish, salt, equal parts 
of black and red pepper, cinnamon, and cloves whole ; 
cover with strong vinegar. This is convenient and 
always good. 

INDIA PICKLE. 

Mrs. George Simpson. 

Take three quarts vinegar, quarter pound mustard, 
half ounce black pepper, one ounce cloves, one ounce all- 
spice, one ounce turmeric, one ounce ginger, one ounce 
cayenne pepper, handfuU salt, same of sugar; boil 
for twenty minutes. When cold put in the vegetables 
and cover closely; if the liquid should become thin, boil 
again and add more mustard in three weeks after 
making. 



TALUABLS RECIPES. 129 

TOMATO MUSTARD. 

Mrs. George Simpson. 

Slice and boil for an hour, with six small red peppers, 
half bushel of ripe tomatoes strain through a colander 
and boil for an hour, with two tablespoonsful of black 
pepper, two ounces ginger, one ounce allspice, half ounce 
cloves, one-eighth ounce mace, quarter pound salt. When 
cold add two ounces mustard, two ounces currie powder, 
and one pint of vinegar. 

PICKLED CAULIFLOWER. 

After cutting off all the green leaves, put the cauli- 
flower into boiling water, with a good supply of salt, 
and boil from three to five minutes ; take them out of 
the salt and water, dip them in clear cold water one 
minute to send the heat to the heart of the cauliflower, 
cut them in pieces convenient to put in jars, then make 
a mixture of one tablespoonful of mace, one of cloves, one 
of allspice, one of ginger, two of white mustard seed, 
and a red pepper pod ; with each a gallon of vinegar. 
Let the mixture boil and pour it upon the cauliflower ; 
cover it closely and let it stand one week; then pour 
off the vinegar, s^ald it, and return it hot again to the 
cauKflower ; then put it in jars ready for use. The best 
cider vinegar should be used, and if it is not perfectly 
clear it will dissolve the cauliflower. 

PICKLES. 
IfeL H. Baird. 
Slice one peck green tomatoes, and one quart smalj 



130 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

white onions, each in a separate dish, with a small tea- 
cup of salt on them ; to stand over night. Drain well, 
then take two quarts vinegar, one pound brown sugar, a 
few pepper pods, capsicums, some mace and ginger root, 
and put all together and simmer until tender. A very 
nice pickle. 

ANOTHEE GOOD PICKLE. 

Two quarts small cucumbers, one quart small onions, 
two small cauliflowers, one quart beans ; let them lie 
over-night, with a small teacup of salt in a gallon of 
water ; in the morning put them on the stove and let 
them come to a scald, then take out and let them cool. 
To two quarts of vinegar put one ounce of curry powder, 
one ounce turmeric, one ounce ground ginger, two 
ounces mustard, one teaspoon cayenne pepper, two or 
three tablespoons salad oil ; mix all together, and let it 
just come to a boil and pour over the vegetables. 

FEENCH TOMATO PICKLE. 

One peck green tomatoes, six onions nicely sliced; 
sprmkle one teacup salt over and stand all night ; then 
drain well and scald in weak vinegar ten or fifteen 
miQutes ; drain again and scald with two quarts strong 
vinegar, one pound sugar, two tablespoons curry pow- 
der, two tablespoons turmeric, two teaspoons cinnamon, 
two teaspoons cloves, two teaspoons allspice, two tea- 
spoons mustard; simmer all together slowly a few 
minutes. It is a beautiful rich pickle. 



TALUABLB RECIPES. 131 

SHCED TOMATOES. 

Mrs. Stotesbtuy. 

To four pounds of large red tomatoes, take two pounds 
of good brown sugar, one pint of cider vinegar, half ounce 
of cloves, and half ounce of stick cinnamon ; stew 
all together in a preserving kettle until the tomatoes are 
cooked ; take the tomatoes out and put them on dishes 
to cool, letting the syrup go on simmering slowly ; when 
the tomatoes are cold return them to the syrup for a little 
while ; let them become cold before putting them in the 
jars. The syrup must be boiled down as thick as 
molasses, and poured cold over the tomatoes ; tie them 
down with bladder or waxed paper. 

PICKLED CUCUMBEKS. 

Mrs. Packard. 

Wash with care your cucumbers, and place in jars. 
Make a weak brine (a handful of salt to a gallon and a 
half of water). When scalding hot, turn over the cucum- 
bers and cover; repeat this process three mornings in 
succession, taking care to skim thoroughly. On the 
fourth day have ready a porcelain kettle of vinegar, to 
which has been added a piece of alum the size of a wal- 
nut. When scalding hot, put in as many cucumbers as 
may be covered with the vinegar ; do not let them boil, 
but skim off as soon as scalded through, and replace 
with others, adding each time a small piece of alum. 
When this process is through, throw out the vinegar and 
replace with good cider or white wine vinegar ; add 
spices, mustard seed, and red peppers. Sort the pickles 



132 THE HOME COOK BOOS. 

and place in stone or glass jars, turn over the hot spiced 
vinegar; seal and put away the jars not needed for 
immediate use. Pickles thus prepared are fine and crisp 
at the expiration of a year. Those that are kept in open- 
mouth jars maybe covered with a cloth, which will need 
to be taken off and rinsed occasionally. I prefer green 
peppers, and prepare them with cucumbers in brine. 
They are not as apt to become soft. 

DEESSING SALAD. 

Mrs. Riley. 

In dressing salad it should be thoroughly saturated 
with oil, and seasoned with salt and pepper hefore vin- 
egar is added. The salt should not be dissolved in the 
vinegar but in the oil, by which means it is more equally 
distributed through the salad. 

CUCUMBEES FOE PEESENT USE. 

Mrs. Riley. 

The best way of utilising cucumbers for present use 
is to parboil them in a solution of water, vinegar, and 
salt. They bhould be split in two before boiling, and, 
if dene properly, will present a beautiful green colour. 

TOMATO MUSTAED. 

Mrs. Spanldiug. 

One peck of tomatoes, ripe, half-pound ealt, six red 
peppers, three tablespoonsful^of blaok pepper, one ounce 
ginger, one ounce allspice, half ounce mace, half ounce 
cloves, a few cloves of garlic, two onions, 'juartei 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 133 

jK)nnd mustard, a tablespoonful of red peppers, and a 
half pint vinegar. Peel the tomatoes, and boil an hour 
with six red peppers ; then add the other spices (ex- 
cepting the mustard and vinegar, which are added after 
the sauce is strained through a colander and cooled), 
and boil another hour. 

WOEC^STER SAUCE. 

Mrs. T. B. Riley. 

One ounce cayenne pepper, one quart vinegar, two 
tablespoonsful soy, three cloves garlic pounded, three 
cloves shalots pounded, five anchovies bruised fine. 
The whole to be well mixed and rubbed through a 
sieve. Keep for ten days corked up, and then bottle for 
use. Strain or not as preferred. 

TOMATO CATSUP. 

Mrs. T. B. Riley. 

Take one bushel of ripe tomatoes, boil them until they 
are soft, squeeze them through a fine wire sieve, and 
add half a gallon of vinegar, one pint of salt, two ounces 
of cloves, a quarter of a pound of allspice, two ounces 
cayenne pepper, three tablespoonsful of ground peppers, 
five heads of garlic (skinned and separated). Mix 
together and boil three hours, or untU reduced to about 
one half. Bottle without straining. 

HORSE-RADISH SAUCE. 

Grate very fine a stick of horse-radish ; with two 
tablespoons of it mix a teaspoonful of salt and four 



134 1!HE HOME COOK BOOft. 

tablespoons of cream ; stir briskly and add by degrees a 
wineglass of vinegar. 

TOMATO MUSTARD. 

Mrs. Carson. 

One peck of tomatoes, one teacupful of salt ; boil in a 
preserving pan half an hour ; pulp it through a colander 
and return to kettle with the folio flying : one dessert 
spoon of cloves, (ground spices), on'' of allspice, one of 
black pepper, one of ginger, one of cayenne, a little gar- 
lic, some onions, and a little curry powder. Let it 
boil down considerably, then strain through a sieve and 
add flour of mustard, until the proper thickness is ob- 
tained, and simmer for a short time ; then bottle for 
use. 

TOMATO CATSUP. 

Mrs. Carson. 

One bushel of good ripe tomatoes, one-half gallon of 
good vinegar, also fresh ground spices, quarter pound 
allspice, two ounces cloves, three tablespoons black pep- 
per, six large onions or two heads garlic, one pint and 
a half of salt, four large red peppers ; boil for a length 
of time, and strain through a sieve, and add the vinegar 
last ; boil until it is thick enough. 

EAST INDIA PICKLES. 

Mrs. Ellas. 

One half peck sliced green tomatoes, one half peck 
sliced white onions, twenty-live small cucumbers, two 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 135 

cauliflowers cut in small branches ; sprinkle salt over 
these plentifully and let stand twenty-four hours, and 
then drain well ; mix half a cup of grated horse-radish 
root with half an ounce of turmeric, (get at drug store), 
haK an ounce of each of ground cinnamon and cloves, 
one ounce of ground pepper, one pint of ground mustard 
seed, one pint of brown sugar, two bunches of chopped 
celery. Put this mixture into a porcelain kettle in lay- 
ers with the vegetables. Cover with cold cider vinegar, 
and boil slowly for two hours. The turmeric gives the 
pickles the yellow colour peculiar to East India pickles, 
and in taste and appearance they cannot be distin- 
guished from the genuine. 

MRS. ELLAS' CHOW CHOW. 

Two quarts tomatoes, two white onions, half dozen 
greon peppers, one dozen cucumbers, two heads of cab- 
bage, all chopped fine ; let this stand over night ; 
sprinkle a teacup of salt in it. In the morning drain 
o£ the brine, and season with one tablespoonful celery 
seed, one ounce turmeric, half teaspoon cayenne pepper, 
one cup brown sugar, one ounce cinnamon, one ounce 
allspice, one ounce black pepper, one quarter ounce 
doves, Yinegar enough to cover, and boil two hours. 

DRAWN BUTTER, OR MELTED BUTTER. 

Miss Beaty. 

Rub in two teaspoonsful of flour into a qiu^rter of a 
pound of butter ; add five tablespoonsful of cold water ; 
set it into boiling water and let it melt, and heat until 
it begins to simmer, and it is done. Never simmer it 



13(J TflE HOME coot BOOK. 

on coals, as it fries the oil and spoils it. Be careful not 
to have the flour in lumps. If it is to be used with fish, 
put in chopped eggs and nasturtium, or capers. If 
used with boiled fowl, put in oysters while it is simmer- 
ing, and let them heat through. 

BUENT BUTTER FOR FISH OR EGGS. 

MisB Beatj. 

Heat two ounces of butter in a frying-pan till a dark 
brown, then add a teaspoonful of viuegar, half a tea- 
spoonful of salt, and half a dozen shakes from the 
pepper-box. 

TOMATO CATSUP. 

Miss Beaty. 

Pour boiling water on the tomatoes ; let them stand 
until you can rub off the skin, then cover them with 
salt and let them stand twenty-four hours. Then strain 
them, and to two quarts put three ounces of cloves, two 
ounces of pepper and two nutmegs. Boil half an hour, 
then add a pint of wine. 

CUEEIED DISHES. 

Miss Beaty. 

Chickens and veal are most suitable for curries. Boil 
the meat till tender, and separate the joints. Put a 
little butter in a stew-pan with the chickens, pour on a 
part of the liquor in which the meat was boiled, enough 
to cover it, and let it stew twenty minutes more. Pre- 
pare the curry thus ; for four pounds of meat take a 



VALUABLE RECIPBS. 137 

tablespoonfal of curry powder, a teacup of boiled rice, 
and a tablespoonful of flour and another of melted but- 
ter, a teacup of the liquor and half a teaspoonful of salt ; 
miT them, and pour them over the meat, and let stew 
ten minutes more. Rice should be boiled for an accom- 
paniment. 

BIPE TOMATO PICKLES. 

Mrs. C. M. Dickerman. 

To *even pounds of ripe tomatoes add three pounds 
sugar, one quart vinegar, boil them together fifteen min- 
utes, ikim out the tomatoes and boil the syrup a few 
minutes longer. Spice to suit the taste with cloves and 
cinnamon. 

PICCALILLI. 

Mrs. LamMn. 

One peck of green tomatoes ; (if the flavour of onions 
is desired, take eight, but it is very nice without any), 
four green peppers ; slice all, and put in layers, sprinkle 
on one cup of salt, and let them remain over night ; 
in the morning press dry through a sieve, put it in a 
porcelain kettle and cover with vinegar ; add one cup of 
sugar, a tablespoon of each kind of spice ; put into a 
muslin bag; stew slowly about an hour, or untU the 
tomatoes are as soft as you desire. 

TO PICKLE MUSHROOMS BEOWN. 

Miss Brokovski. 

Take the email buttons and rub them very clean with 



138 TEE HOME OOOE BOOS. 

a flannel, and some vinegar ; then put them in a dish 
with a little salt over them to draw the liquor from them, 
then put them into a kettle to stew very gently in their 
own liquor ; boU them in good vinegar, with mace, cloves, 
and black pepper. . 

TOMATOES WHOLE FOR WINTEE USE. 

Mrs. J. Sanlter. 

Fill a large stone jar with ripe tomatoes, then add a 
few whole cloves and a little sugar ; cover them well 
with one half cold vinegar and half water ; place a piece 
of flannel over the jar well down into the vinegar, then 
tie down with paper. I have kept tomatoes in this way 
the year round, and can cheerfully recommend them. 
Should mildew collect on the flannel it will not injure 
the tomatoes in the least. 

CHOW-CHOW. 

Mrs. John Corthell. 

Two heads cabbage, two heads cauliflower, one dozen 
cucumbers, six roots of celery, six peppers, one quart of 
small white onions, two quarts green tomatoes ; cut into 
small pieces, and boil each vegetable separately until 
tender, then strain them. Two gallons of vinegar, one- 
fourth pound of mustard, one-fourth pound of mustard 
seed, one pot of French mustard, one ounce of cloves, 
two ounces of turmeric ; put the vinegar and spices into 
a kettle and let them come to a boil ; mix the vegetables 
and pour over the dressing. 



VALT7ABLE BECITES. 189 

HCKLED QYSTEES. 

Mrs. Carl Hammond. 

Wash the oysters and scald them in strong salt and 
water ; skim them out and throw into cold water ; scald 
vinegar well and whole peppers ; let it get cold. Put 
the oysters in a stone jar ; make liquor to cover them of 
water they were scalded in, and vinegar. A cup of vin- 
egar to one quart liquor, to be used cold. 

BEINE THAT PRESEEVES BUTTEE A YEAR. 

Mrs. D. McCnmej. 

To three gallons of brine strong enough to bear an 
egg, add one-quarter pound good loaf sugar, and one 
tablespoonful of saltpetre ; boil the brine, and when it is 
cold strain carefully. Pack butter closely in small jars, 
and allow the brine to cover the butter to the depth of 
at least four inches. This completely excludes the air. 
If practicable make your butter into small roles, wrap 
each carefully in a clean muslin cloth, tying up with a 
string ; place a weight over the butter to keep it all sub- 
merged in the brine. This mode is most recommended 
by those who have tried both. 



BREAKFAST AND SUPPER. 



• Dinner may be pleasant | 

So may social tea ; 
But yet, methinks the breakfast 
Is best oi all the three." 

—Amoh, 



RELISHES. 



OYSTEE STEW. 

Mrs. A. S. Ewing. 

Strain the juice from the oysters placed in the colan- 
der into a stew pan ; let it come to a boil ; remove the 
scum and a clear liquor will remain ; turn cold water 
upon the oysters, and rinse thoroughly ; add them to 
the liquor, with a cup of cream or milk, butter, salt, and 
cayenne pepper. Have ready buttered dice-shaped 
pieces of toast upon a meat dish ; pour the oysters over, 
garnish with parsley, and serve hot. 

TOAST. 

Toast the bread very quickly, dip each slice in boil- 
ing water, (a little salt in the water), as soon as you 
have toasted it ; then spread it with butter ; cover and 
keep hot as you proceed. Make milk toast in the same 



Valuable recipes. 141 

way, keeping the milk at nearly boiling heat ; it is bet- 
ter to spread the butter on the bread after it is dipped 
in hot milk, than to melt it in the milk ; thicken what 
milk is left with a little corn starch, and pour over the 
toast when sent to the table. 

SCRAMBLED EGGS. 

Helena Smith. 

Beat up six eggs with two ounces of butter, one table- 
spoonful of cream of new milk, a little chopped parsley, 
and salt ; put all in a saucepan, and keep stirring over 
the fire until it begins to thicken, when it should be im- 
mediately dished on buttered totst. 

FRENCH TOAST. 

Mrs. M. J. Savage. 

To one egg thoroughly beaten, put one cup of sweet 
milk and a little salt. Slice light bread, and dip into 
the mixture, allowing each slice to absorb some of the 
milk ; then brown on a hot buttered griddle ; spread 
with butter and serve hot. 

TONGUE TOAST. 

M. A. P. 

Take cold boiled tongue, mince it fine ; mix it with 
cream or milk, and to every half pint of the mixture, 
allow the well beaten yolks of two eggs ; place over the 
fire and let it simmer a minute or two ; have ready some 
nicely toasted bread ; butter it ; place it on a hot dish 
and pour the mixture over ; send to the table hot. 



142 THE HOME COOK BOOK, 

LEMON TOAST. 

E. A. Forsyth. 

Take the yolks of six eggs, beai tlicm v.-ell and add 
three cups of sweet milk ; take baker's bread not too 
stale and cut into slices ; dip them into the milk and 
eggs, and lay the slices into a spider, with sufficient 
melted butter hot to fry a nice delicate brown ; take the 
whites of the six eggs, and beat them to a froth, adding 
a large cup of white sugar ; add the juice of two lemons, 
heating well, and adding two cups boiling water ; serve 
over the toast as a sauce, and you will find it a very de- 
licious dish. 

FKIED BEEAD IN BATTER. 

M. A. T. 

Take one tablespoon sweet light dough; dissolve it 
in one cup sweet milk ; add three or four eggs, one and 
a half cups flour, one teaspoon of salt ; cut some thin 
shoes of light bread, dip in this batter, and fry in hot 
lard!; sprinkle with powdered sugar, and garnish with 
jeUy. 

CODFISH BALLS. 

, Mrs. Banks. 

Take four cups of mashed potatoes, three cups of 
boiled codfish minced fine, add butter j mix well to- 
gether; then add two well beaten eggs, beating it up 
again thoroughly ; drop by spoonsful into hot lard and 
fry the same as doughnuts. Are nice fried in croquette 
baskets. 



t 



VALUABLE BECIPES. 143 

CODFISH PUFF. 

Mrs. Banks. 

Eecipe the same as for codfish balls put in an earthen 
baking plate ; smooth over the top, and put over some 
butter, and then in a hot oven to bake. 

CODFISH HASH. 

Mrs. N. P. Wilder. 

One pint boiled picked codfish well freshened, one 
quart cold boiled chopped potatoes mixed well together, 
three slices salt pork freshened, cut in very smaU pieces 
and fried brown ; remove half the pork, and add your 
fish and potatoes to the remainder ; let it stand and 
steam five minutes without stirring ; be careful not to 
let it bum ; then add one-third cup milk and stir thor- 
oughly ; put the remainder of the pork around the edge 
of the spider, and a little butter over it ; sinmier it over 
a slow fire for half an hour, until a brown crust is 
formed, when turn it over on a platter and serve. 

BEEF HASH. 

Chop fine cold beef, either boiled or baked ; have 
leady cold boiled potatoes ; to one pint of meat put one 
pint and a little more of potatoes, chopped fine ; have 
ready a spider, with a good piece of butter in it ; put in 
the hash ; season with pepper and salt, and then add 
rich milk or cream. Milk is a very great improvement. 

CORNED BEEF HASH. 
One and one-half pounds nice corned beef, boiled 



H4 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

tender and chopped fine ; one-third more potatoes when 
chopped than meat ; three large onions sliced fine and 
browned in butter, and when tender, add the meat and 
potatoes, well seasoned with salt and pepper ; enough 
water to moisten. A small red pepper chopped fine is a 
great improvement. It is good without onions also. 

BEEAKFAST STEAK. 

A nice steak of beef or veal ; pound it with a steak 
mallet, if tough ; lay in a baking tin, dredge it lightly 
with flour, season with salt and pepper, and, if you like, 
a Httle chopped parsley ; then put in the oven and bake 
for twenty or thirty minutes, or until sufiSciently well 
done ; take it up, put it on the platter, spread with but- 
ter, and dredge into the juices of the meat in the baking 
pan a little flour, and season with butter ; let this boil 
up and pour over the steak. This is very nice, 

SIDE DISH. 

R. A. Sibley. 

Chopped cold meat well seasoned ; wet with gravy, if 
convenient, put it on a platter; then take cold rice 
made moist with milk and one egg, season with pepper 
and salt; if not sufficient rice, add powdered bread 
crumbs ; place this around the platter quite thick ; set 
in oven to heat and brown. 

ANOTHER SIDE DISH. 

E. A. Sibley. 

Cold turkey, chicken or any cold meat, chopped fine, 



VALUABLE EECIPES. 145 

reasoned 'with salt, pepper, and gravy ; lay pie crust 
round the edge of the platter, and cover the same ; bake 
a nice brown in the oven. Very little meat makes a 
dish for several persons. 

A NICE BEEAKPAST DISH. 

Harriet N. Jonls. 

Mince cold beef or lamb ; if beef put in a pinch of pul- 
verized cloves ; if lamb, a pinch of summer savoui-y to 
season it, very little pepper and some salt, and put it in 
a baking dish ; mash potatoes and mix them -with cream 
and butter and a little salt, and spread them over the 
meat; beat up an egg with cream or milk, a very little ; 
spread it over the potatoes, and bake it a short time, 
sufficient to warm it through and brown the potatoes. 

POTATO PUFFS. 

S. S. Tierce. 

Take cold roast meat (either beef, veal, or mutton) ; 
clear it from gristle ; chop fine ; season with pepper and 
salt ; boil and mash some potatoes, and make them into 
a paste with one or two eggs ; roU it out with a httle 
flour; cut it round with a saucer; put your seasoned 
meat on one half; fold it over like a puff; turn it neatly 
round, and fry it a light brown; Nice for breakfast. 

KICE CAKES. 

Mrs. A. M. Gibbi. 

One teacup of soft boiled rice, the yolk of one egg, a 
pinch of salt, two tablespoons of sifted flour, beaten well 



146 THE HOME COOK BOOS. 

togetiier ; add sweet milk until it is about the consistency 
of sponge cake or thick cream, and just before baking 
stir in lightly the beaten white of the egg. The less flour 
used the better for invalids. 

VEAL STEW. 

Two pounds of veal steak cut in strips ; put in cold 
water in a skillet or spider and over the j&re. The water 
should be just sufficient to cover the meat. Pare, wash 
and sHce one small potato and put in with the meat. 
Stew for twenty or thirty minutes gently, taking care 
that the water does not boil away. Have ready two or 
three eggs boiled in the shell. When the meat is tender 
add to the broth one cup of fresh milk and one heaping 
tablespoon of flour wet with milk; season all with butter, 
salt and pepper, and, if you like, a little parsley. Cut 
the hard boiled eggs in slices and put into the broth. 
Let all boil up once, and serve with or without toast on 
the platter. A very nice breakfast dish. 

TO STEW MUSHEOOMS. 

Miss BrokoYskL 

Peel them and put them to stew in some milk till 
tender, when sufficiently done, put to them some butter 
and flour mixed together, a little cayenne, and some salt; 
part cream instead of milk will improve them. 

BAKED EGGS. 

Mrs. L. M. Angle. 

Break sis or seven eggs into a buttered dish, taking 



VALUABLE BECIPES. 147 

eare that each is whole, and does not encroach upon the 
ethers so much as to mix or disturb the yolks ; sprinkle 
\nth pepper and salt, and put a bit of butter upon each. 
Put into an oven and bake until the whites are set. 
This is far superior to fried eggs, and very nice for 
breakfast, served on toast or alone. 

POACHED EGGS. 

Break as many eggs as you wish to use, one at a time, 
and drop carefully into a spider filled with boiling water. 
When the whites of the eggs are well set, sHp a spoon 
carefully under and take out, laying each upon a small 
piece of buttered toast on the platter. Put a very small 
piece of butter on each egg, a slight dash of pepper, and 
serve immediately. 

OMELET— (SPLENDID). 

Six eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately ; half 
pint milk, six teaspoons com starch, one teaspoon of 
baking powder, and a little salt ; add the whites, beaten 
to a stiff froth, last ; cook in a little butter. 

EGG-OMELET. 

Mrs. CarBon. 

Six eggs beaten separately, half pint Bweet milk, six 
teaspoons ot com starch made smooth in a little of the 
milk, one teaspoon baking powder, a httle salt ; add the 
whites last, cook in a hot pan with a little butter|; when 
nicely browned, roll over on hot dish and serve at once. 



14d THB HOME COOK BOOS 

OMELET. 

Mrs. Midglcy. 

Six eggs, teacup of milk, pepper and salt ; beat yolks 
and whites separately ; add pepper and salt with yolks, 
then stir in the milk ; lastly stir in the whites very 
lightly ; have your pan very hot, put a good bit of but- 
ter in your pan, then the mixture. Cook ten minutes, 
put in the oven for three minutes, slip on a hot plato, 
and eat. 

OMELET. 

Miss E. C. Harris. 

One cup of milk, one tablespoon flour stirred into the 
milk ; four eggs, the yolks and whites beaten separately ; 
one-half tablespoon melted butter stirred into the mix- 
ture ; a little salt. Stir in the whites before putting 
into the spider. Cook on top of the stove about ten 
minutes, then set the spider in the oven to brown the 
top. To be eaten as soon as taken from the oven. 
Very nice. 

.FEIED OMELET. 

Mrs. P. B. Orr. 

Three eggs, two gills milk, two tablespoons flour, a 
ittle salt and pepper, fried on hot griddle. 

FEI^E'S OMELET. 

Mrs. DeForest. 

Boil a dozen apples, as for sauce ; stir in one-fourth 



TALUABLS RECIPES. 149 

pound of Lutter, ditto -white sugar ; ^hen cold, add fonr 
well beaten eggs and a few spoons of cream ; put it into 
a baking dish, well buttered, and thickly strewn with 
bread crumbs on the bottom and sides ; strew currants 
over the top. Bake forty-five minutes ; turn on a plat- 
ter, and sift sugar over it. Serve with sugar and cream, 
or a boiled custard ; the latter is much the nicer. 

FKENCH OMELET. 

One cup boiling milk with one tablespoon of butter 
melted in it ; pour this on one cup of bread crumbs, (the 
bread must be light) ; add salt, pepper, and the yolks of 
six eggs well beaten ; mix thoroughly; and lastly, add the 
six whites cut to a stiff froth ; mix lightly and fry with 
hot butter ; this will make two ; when almost done, turn 
together in shape of half moon. 

BAKED OMELET. 

Mrs. Edward Ely. 

Six eggs, two tablespoons of flour, a little salt, one 
cup of milk ; take a Uttle of the milk, and stir the flour 
into it; add the rest of the milk, and the yolks of the 
eggs; then beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, 
and pour into the flour, milk, and yolks ; put a piece of 
butter the size of a small egg into an iron spider, and 
let it get hot, but not so the butter will burn ; then pour 
the mixture in and put in a moderate oven to bake in 
the spider. It takes about ten minutes to bake. Then 
slip a knife under and loosen, and slip ofi on a larga 
plate or platter. 



150 THB EOMB OOOK BOOE* 

VEAL OMELET 

Mrs. J. S. Gano. 

Three pounds of lean veal, two eggs, six small butter 
crackers, one tablespoon of thyme, one of salt, one of 
pepper, two of milk; knead it like bread, and bake it two 
hours in a slow oven, basting it with butter often, then 
slice for tea. 

CHEESE SCALLOP. 

Soak one cup of dry bread crumbs in fresh milk. Beat 
into this three eggs; add one tablespoon of butter and 
one-half a pound of grated cheese ; strew upon the top 
sifted bread crumbs, and bake in the oven a delicate 
brown. An excellent relish when eaten with thin sUces 
of bread and butter. 

FISH EELISH. • 

After Marion Harland. 

One cup of drawn butter with an egg beaten in, two 
hard boiled eggs, mashed potato (a cup will do), one cup 
of cold fish (cod, halibut, or shad), roe of cod or shad, 
and one teaspoon of butter, one teaspoon of minced 
parsley, pepper and salt to taste. Method: Dry the roe 
previously well boiled ; mince the fish fine and season ; 
wash up the roe with the butter and the yolks of the 
boiled eggs ; cut the white into thin rings ; put a layer of 
mashed potatoes at the bottom of a deep buttered dish ; 
then alternate layers of fish ; drawn butter with the 
rings of the whites imbedded in this roe ; more potato at 
top; cover and set in the oven until it smokes and 



VALUABLE BEOIFES. 151 

bubbles ; brown by remoring the cover a few minutes 
Send to table in the baking dish, and pass pickles with 
it. 

BKEAEPAST GEMS. 

Ifrs. Brown. 

One cup sweet milk, one and a haK cups flour, one 
egg, one teaspoon salt, one teaspoon baking powder j 
beaten together five minutes ; bake in Jiot gem pans in 
a hot oven about fifteen minutes. 

POTATO CAKE. 

Mrs. S. McMaster. 

Crush cold boiled potatoes with butter and salt ; mix 
m a small proportion of flour and a little yeast (the 
last may be omitted at pleasure), and with milk work 
the whole to the consistency of very firm dough ; roll it 
out to the thickness of an inch and a half or two inches; 
cut it out the size of your frying pan, previously greased, 
and in it lay your cake after flouring it all over ; bake 
covered with a plate, shake and shift it 3, little from time 
to time to prevent burning ; when half done turn it, and 
cover with a plate again. 

EICE FEITTEES. 

Mrs. S. McMaster. 

Boil three tablespoonsful of rice until it swells to the 
full size, then drain quite dry and mix with it four eggs 
well beaten, quarter pound of currants and a Httls 
grated lemon peel, nutmeg and sugar to the taste ; stir 
in as much flour as will thicken it, and fry in lard. 



1£2 THE HOME COOE BOOS. 

BREAKFAST BUNS. 

Mrs. J. W. Preston. 

Two cups of flour, three-fourths cup of corn meal, 
three-fourths cup of butter, one-half cup of sugar, twG 
eggs beaten, one cup of milk, three teaspoons baking 
powder ; bake in hot oven twenty minutes. 

QUICK SALLY LUNN. 

One cup of sugar, one-half a cup of butter ; stir well 
together, and then add one or two eggs ; put in one good 
pint of sweet milk, and with sufficient flour to make a 
batter about as stiff as cake ; put in three teaspoons 
of baking powder ; bake and eat hot with butter, for tea 
or breakfast. 

BEEAKFAST CAKE. 

Mrs. C. Bradley. 

One pint of flour, three tablespoons of butter, three 
tablespoons of sugar, one egg, one cup sweet milk, one 
teaspoon cream tartar, one-half teaspoon soda ; to be 
eaten with butter. 

EYE CAKES FOE TEA. 

Harriet N. Jenks. 

Two teacups of rye flour, one of wheat flour, one of 
eour milk, one teaspoon of soda, put in the sour milk, 
and while foaming stir it in the flour and rye, with one- 
half teaspoon of salt, one-half teacup of molasses ; make 
it stiff and turn it into a buttered pan; spread it smooth 
with a spoon dipped in hot water ; bake one-half hour 



VALUABLE RECIPES, 153 

JOLLY BOYS. 

Je.^anie Brayton. 

One quart com meal ; scald and cool ; one pint of 
flour, two eggs, one teaspoon soda, two of cream tartar, 
a little milk, salt ; make as thick as pancakes, and fry 
in hot lard. Nice for breakfast. 

GEAHAM BREAKFAST CAEES. 

Mrs. Gibbs. 

Two cups of Graham flour, one cup of wheat flour, 
two eggs well beaten ; mix with sweet milk, to make a very 
thin batter ; bake in gem irons ; have the irons hot, then 
set them on the upper grate in the oven ; will bake in 
fifteen minutes. 

TEA CAKE. 

Mrs. H. P. Stowell. 

One egg, one cup sugar, one cup sweet milk, piece of 
butter size of an egg, one teaspoon cream-tartar, one- 
half teaspoon soda, one pint of flour. Eaten warm. 

COTTAGE CHEESE. 

Mrs. Gibbs. 

Pour boiling water on the thick milk in the pan in 
which it has turned, stirring while you pour ; as soon as 
the milk separates from the whey and begins to appear 
eooked, let it settle ; in a minute or two most of the 
water and whey can be poured off ; if not sufficiently 



154 THB HOME OOOE B002. 

cooked, more hot water may be used ; set the pan on 
edge, and with your spoon or hand draw the curd to the 
upper side, pressing out as much water as possible ; if 
desired, it can stand a few moments in cold water; 
when squeezed dry, work the curd fine, rolling it be- 
tween the hands ; add salt and cream to taste ; in very 
warm weather when the milk has turned quickly, it is 
very palatable without the addition of cream, 

WHITE COEN BKEAD. 

Mrs. E. S. Cbeeseborongh. 

One pint of meal thoroughly scalded with hard-boil- 
ing water ; butter the size of an egg, and jone well- 
beaten egg; add milk to make it just thin enough to 
flow over the pan. Have the batter an inch thick, and 
then bake, 

YPSILANTI EGG KOLLS. 

Miss Norria. 

Allow one egg for each person, two cups of milk for 
three eggs, four teaspoons of flour ; beat whites and 
yolks separately, and add the eggs last. Put a very 
little of the mixture into a hot frying pan well greased 
with butter ; roll as you would omelet, and put on a 
platter. Send in hot. For breakfast or teai Can be 
eaten with sugar. 



Vegetables. 

• NVltness, thou beet Anana, thou the pzide 
Of vegetable life, beyond wbaet'er 
The poets imaged in the golden age. 
Quick, let me strip thee of thy tnfty coat. 
Spread thy ambrosial stores, and feast with Jove." 

— Thoupsom. 

BOILED POTATOES. 

Old potatoes are better for being peeled and put in 
cold water an hour before being put over to boil. They 
should then be put into fresh cold water, when set over 
the fire. New potatoes should always be put into boiling 
water, said it is best to prepare them just in time for 
cooking. Are better steamed than boiled. 

MASHED POTATOES. 

Mrs. P. D. J. 

Peel the potatoes, and let them stand in cold water 
for half an hour ; then put in the steamer over boiling 
water and cook them until mealy and quite tender. Have 
ready an earthen basin, or a bright tin pan, into which 
you will put your potatoes, so that while mashing and 
preparing, they can be kept on the stove and hot. Now 
mash well and finely with the potato-masher, and then 
season with salt ; allow a generous piece of butter, and 
lastly, add a teacup of rich milk ; mix altogether well, 
and then take up on a deep dish. 

There will now be three or four ways to finish this, 



156 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

and wliich are, first by putting a little butter on the top, 
after smoothing nicely, and putting it a moment at the 
mouth of the oven, and then serving quite hot; or you 
may put it into the oven, which should be quick and hot, 
and bake the crust of a rich brown. Or, again, the top 
may be scored a golden brown with steel bars made for 
this purpose. Or, lastly, after mashing the potato, put 
it into a mould and shape it ; then loosen it from the 
mould and turn it on to a flat piece of sheet iron, large 
enough to cover the bottom of the mould with handles 
at the sides. Then have ready hot lard in which you 
immerse the moulded potato and fry a rich golden brown. 
Take out and with a knife under, slide carefully on your 
platter. Garnish the dish around with curled parsley 
leaves. If the potato is put in the oven to brown, it 
should be put in a baking plate and may be sent to the 
table in the dish in which it is baked, with a knitted 
cover over. 

FKENCH POTATOES. 

Mrs. W. G. Davis. 

Peel and cut some potatoes in slices lengthwise, wipe 
dry and drop them in boiling lard ; sqyve very hot. 

POTATOES AND GEE AM. 

Mince cold boiled potatoes fine ; put them into a spider 
with melted butter in it ; let them fry a little in the 
butter well covered; then put in a fresh piece of butter, 
season with salt and pepper, and pour over cream or rich 
milk; let it boil up once and serve. 



VALUABLE EECIPES. 157 

POTATOES FKIED. 

Mrs. A. 

Pare potatoes ; cut in pieces one-half inch wide, and 
AS long as the potato; keep them in cold "water till 
wanted ; drop in boiling lard ; when nearly done, take 
them out with a skinimer and drain them ; boil up the 
lard again, and drop them back, and fry till done ; this 
makes them puff up ; sprinkle with salt and serve very 
hot. 

POTATO CROQUETTES. 

Take finely mashed potato and mix through it sufficient 
salt, pepper, and butter to season well, with sweet milk 
or cream to moisten; mix thoroughly with this one 
beaten egg, and then make up into small rolls, being 
careful to have the surface perfectly smooth. Have 
ready one plate with a beaten egg upon it, and another 
with cracker crumbs. Dip each roll into the egg and 
then into the crumbs, and fry of a rich golden brown in 
hot lard. Lay the croquettes on brown paper first, and 
serve on a napkin. 

PAESNIPS. 

Boil until tender in a little salted water ; then take 
np ; skim them, cut in strips, dip in beaten egg, and fry 
in melted butter or hot lard. 

TUENIPS. 

Bon. until tender ; mash and season with butter, pep- 
per, salt, and a little rich milk or cream. Serve with 
mutton. 



158 . THE HOME OOOE BOOS. 

BEETS. 

Clean these nicely, but do not pare them, leaving on 
a short piece of the stalk. Then put over to boil in hot 
water. Young beets will cook tender in an hour ; old 
beets require several hours boiling. When done, skin 
quickly while hot ; slice thin into your vegetable dish, 
put on salt, pepper and a little butter; put over a 
little vinegar and serve hot or cold. 

BAKED SQUASH. 

Cut in pieces, scrape well, bake from one to one and 
a haK hours, according to the thickness of the squash ; 
to be eaten with salt and butter as sweet potatoes. 

EEIED SQUASHES. 

Mrs. P. M. Cragin. 

Cut the squash into thin slices, and sprinkle it with 
salt ; let it stand a few moments ; then beat two eggs, 
and dip the squash into the egg ; then fry it brown in 
butter. 

SUMMER SQUASHES. 

Cook them whole; when tender, if large, skin and 
remove the seeds ; if small, this will not be necessary ; 
drain and press the water out with a plate ; then put 
them in a stew-pan, and season well with butter, pepper, 
and salt, and a tablespoon of cream. 

GEE EN COEN— BOILED. 
Throw the ears, when husked, into a kettle of boiling 



VALUABLE EECIPES. 159 

water, slightly suited, and boil thirty minutes. Serve 
in a napi^in. 

GKEEN COKN OYSTEES. 

To a pint of grated com add two well beaten eggs ; 
one-half cup of cream, and a half cup of flour, with one- 
half spoon of baking powder stirred in it ; season with 
pepper and salt and fry in butter, dropping the batter 
in spoonsful ; serve a few at a time, very hot, as a rehsh 
with meats. 

GREEN CORN PATTIES. 

M. 

Grate as much com as will make one pint ; one tea- 
cup flour, one teacup butter, one egg, pepper and salt 
to taste. If too thick, add a little milk, and fry in 
butter. 

SOUTHERN WAY OF BOILING RICE. 

Mrs. Stotesbury. 

Pick over the rice ; rinse it in cold water until perfectly 
clean, then put it in a pot of boiling water, allowing a 
quart of water to less than a teacup of rice ; boil it hard 
seventeen minutes ; drain off the water very close, and 
let it steam fifteen minutes with the lid off. When care- 
fully done in this way, each kernel of rice stands out by 
itself, while it is perfectly tender. The water in which 
the rice has been boiled makes, it is said, good starch 
for muslin, if boiled a few minutes by itself. 



160 THE HOME OOOK BOOK. 

COEN OYSTEES. 

Mrs. Samuel McMaster. 

One pint of green grated corn, two tablespoons of 
milk, three eggs, two tablespoons butter ; flour to make 
a batter ; and fry on griddle with butter. 

SUCCOTASH. 

One pint of green corn cut from the cob, and two- 
thirds of a pint of Lima beans ; let them stew in just 
enough water to cover them until tender, then season 
with butter, pepper, salt, and a little milk ; simmer to- 
gether a few moments and serve. 

CANADIAN BAKED BEANS. 

Mrs. Higgins. 

Boil the beans until they begin to crack, with a pound 
or two of salt fat pork ; put the beans in the baking- 
pan ; score the pork across the top, and settle in the 
middle ; add two tablespoons of sugar or molasses, and 
bake in a moderate oven two hours ; they should be 
very moist when first put into the oven, or they will 
grow too dry in baking. Do not forget the sweetening 
if you want Yankee baked beans. 

GEEEN PEAS. 

Shell and put into boiling water, cook from thirty to 
thirty-five minutes ; drain and season with rich milk or 
cream, butter, pepper, and salt ; some cooks also add a 
little flour or corn starch to thicken the gravy, but which 



VALUABLE EECUES. 161 

elioiildbe nsed very sparingly, not more than a teaspoon. 
Ee sure the peas are young ; old peas are fit for nothing 
bat soup. 

ASPAEAGUS. 

Cut off the green ends, and chop up the remainder of 
the stalks ; boil until tender, and season with salt and 
pepper ; have ready some toasted bread in a deep dish ; 
mix together equal parts of flour and butter to a cream ; 
add to this slowly enough of the asparagus water or 
clear hot water to make a sauce ; boil this up once ; 
put the asparagus on the toast and pour over all the 
sauce. 

BAKEDICABBAGB. 

Boil a cabbage, then put in a colander, and drain it 
until perfectly dry; then chop fine ; put in pepper, salt, 
and a little cream, and put in an earthen baking-pan 
and into the oven. Bake one hour. 

DRESSED CABBAGE. 

Mrs. B. J. Seward. 

One small teacup of vinegar, one egg, two tablespoons 
of sugar, one teaspoon of salt, and butter half the size 
of an egg ; beat the egg before mixing with the other 
ingredients, which should be previously put over the 
fire, then put in the egg ; stir until it boils ; cool and 
pour over chopped or shaved cabbage, 



163 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

CAULIFLOWER. 

Mrs. C. Belford. 

Remove the leaves ; cut the main stalk close to the 
flower ; lay it in boiling milk and water slightly salted, 
with the stalk down ; when done, take out carefully and 
drain in a colander, then place in the vegetable dish 
and pour over it a rich drawn butter dressing. 

ESCALOPED TOMATOES. 

Put into an earthen baking dish a layer of cracker 
crumbs and small bits of butter ; then a layer of toma- 
toes with a very little sugar sprinkled over them ; then 
another layer of cracker crumbs seasoned with butter, 
and a layer of tomatoes, until your dish is full, with 
the cracker crumbs at the top ; pour over all this a little 
water to moisten, and bake half an hour. 

STEWED TOMATOES. 

Mrs. Saultex. 

Put ripe tomatoes into hot water and skin them ; then 
throw them into an earthen stew pan, (a new tin will 
do, but not so good); cut up and let the tomatoes cook 
gently a few minutes ; season with butter, pepper, salt, 
and serve. Or you may add bread crumbs and sugar 
to the tomatoes if preferred. Some cooks stew tomatoes 
tor a long time, but the flavour is finer if allowed to sim- 
mer but a few moments, just sufficient time to heat well 
through. 



TALUABLB EECIPES. 163 

* BAKED TOMATOES. 

Wash, wipe and then cut in two ; place them in a 
baking tin with the skin side down, and season with 
pepper and salt, and place in a hot oven ; take up care- 
fully when done, and put bits of butter on each piece of 
tomato. 

FRIED TOMATOES. 

Cut a large Feejee tomato in half, flour the cut side, 
heat very hot, and put the floured side down; when 
brown on one side, turn ; when done, pour over a teacup 
of hot cream or rich milk. 

TOMATO HASH. 

Butter the dish well ; put in a layer of sliced toma- 
toes, a layer of cold meat, sliced thin; then a layer of 
bread and butter, and so on until the dish is full, 
seasoning well with pepper and salt, and beaten eggs 
poured over the top. Bake brown. 

MACAEONI. 

/ Mrs. M. C. Gridley. 

Cook macaroni in water until soft; then put in a 
deep dish with alternate layers of grated crackers and 
cheese, a little salt ; fill up the dish with milk and bake 
one hour. 

MACAEONI AU TOMATO. 

Mrs. BcndclarL 

Throw one pound of macaroni into a preserving kettl 



164 THE HOME OOOE BOOS^ 

half filled with boiling water, (be sure that the water is 
boiling), and a small teaspoon of salt. Let it boil for about 
twenty minutes, or until it is tender; then drain in a col- 
ander before putting on a dish. Have about two table- 
spoons of cheese grated and sprinkle over it, then pour 
over a tomato sauce which has been strained, and made 
as follows : Two hours before the macaroni is put on 
the fire, take a quart of canned or fresh tomatoes and 
put in a saucepan with a little salt and pepper, hall a 
small onion, a teaspoon of parsley out fine, a piece of 
lard the size of an egg. Let it boil slowly for two hours; 
if it gets too dry add a few spoonsful of water. 

ONIONS— BOILED. 

Select those of uniform size ; remove the outer skin, 
then boil until tender in a large quantity of milk and 
water ; the flavour will be more delicate. Drain them 
when tender, and season with butter, salt, and pepper 

ONIONS— FEIED. 

Peel and slice and fry in lard or butter; season with 
pepper and salt, and serve hot. 

MUSHEOOMS— FRIED. 

When peeled put them into hot butter and let them 
heat thoroughly through — too much cooking toughens 
them. Season well with butter, pepper, and salt. Serve 
on buttered toast ; a teaspoon of wiixd <ix vinegar on each 
mushroom is a choice method* 



Valuable becipes. 165 

MUSHEOOMS— STEWED. 

If fresh, let them lie in salt and water about one hour, 
then put them in the stewpan, cover with water and let 
them cook two hours gently. Dress them with cream, 
butter and fioui as oysters, and season to taste. 



PUDDINGS. 



•• Ind solid pudding against empty praise.* 



EVE'S PUDDING. 

If you want a good pudding, mind what you are taught j 
Take eggs, six in number, when bought for a gicat ; 
The fruit with which Eve her husband did cozen, 
Well pared, and well chopped, at least half a dozen ; 
Six ounces of bread, let Moll eat the crust. 
And crumble the rest as fine as the dust ; 
Six ounces of currants, from the stem you must sort, 
Lest you break out your teeth, and spoil all the sport } 
Six ounces of sugar won't make it too sweet. 
Some salt and some nutmeg will make it complete ; 
Three hours lot it boil without any flutter, 
Bat Adam won't like it without wine and batter. 

SUET PUDDING. 

Mrs. E. B. Harmon. 

One cup of suet chopped fine, one cup chopped raisins, 
one cup of molasses, one cup of sweet milk, three tea- 
spoons baking powder ; spice to your taste ; four cups 
of flour ; mix and steam three hours. 

SUET PUDDING. 

Mrs. J. H. Brown. 

Two cups of chopped suet, two of raisins, two of 
molasses, four of flour, one of milk, three teaspoons of 



tiliUABLE EECIPES. 107 

baking powder ; boil three and one-half honrs ; eat 
while hot. Sauce for same : One cup of sugar, one- 
half of butter, one egg, one tablespoon of wine or 
vinegar ; beat Mteen minutes and heat to a scald. 

MAPEIEA PUDDING. 

Mrs. J. G. Smith. 

Ono-half pound chopped suet, three-quarters of a 
pound bread crumbs, six ounces moist sugar, one-quar- 
ter pound flour, two eggs, two wineglasses of sherry ; 
mix the suet, breadcrumbs, sugar, andflour well together. 
When these ingredients are well mixed add the eggs and 
two glasses of sherry, to make a thick batter ; boil three 
hours and a half ; serve with wine sauce. 

UNEIVALLED PLUM PUDDING. 

Mrs. J. E. Smith. 

Two pounds and a half of raisins, one or three quar- 
ters pound of currants, two pounds of the finest 
moist sugar, two pounds bread crumbs, sixteen eggs, 
two pounds finely chopped suet, six ounces of mixed 
candied peel, the rind of two lemons, one ounce of 
ground nutmeg, one ounce of ground cinnamon, half an 
ounce of pounded bitter almonds, one-quarter of a pint 
of brandy. Mode : stone and cut up the raisins, do 
not chop them ; wash and dry the currants ; cut the 
candied peel into thin slices ; mix all the dry ingredi- 
ents well together, and moisten with the eggs, which 
should be well beaten and strained ; then stir in the 
brandy ; and when all is thoroughly mixed, add butter 



168 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

and flour, and put the pudding into a stout new cloth ; tie 
it down very tightly and closely ; boil from six to eight 
hours, and serve with brandy sauce. This quantity may 
be divided and boiled in buttered moulds. 

SUET PUDDING. 

Mm. Banks. 

Three cups flour, one cup suet, one cup molasses, one 
cup sweet milk, one cup raisins, one and a half teaspoons 
soda ; three hours hard boiling in a bag or pudding-dish# 

PUDDING. 

Mrs. Metcalf. 

One teacup sugar, three tablespoons melted butter, 
one egg, one teacup of milk, two heaping cups of flour, 
one teaspoon soda, two cream tartar ; if the milk be sour 
leave out the cream of tartar ; bake in pan about half 
an hour. To put in a few currants improves it. 

SUET PUDDING. 

Mrs. W. Butterfield. 

One cup of suet, one cup of molasses, one cup of 
milk, one cup of raisins, three and a half cups of flour, 
one egg, one tablespoon of cloves, one tablespoon of 
cinnamon, one nutmeg, a little salt, one teaspoon of soda, 
(dissolve in the milk) ; steam three hours. 

STEAMED PLUM PUDDING. 

Mrs. J. W. Farlin. 

One and one-fourth cups beef suet, two cups raisins, 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 169 

fonr cnps flour, one cup milk, one cup molasses, one 
teaspoon soda, one teaspoon salt. Season with nutmeg, 
cloves, cinnamon, and allspice to taste ; steam four hours. 
Do not uncover the steamer, but raise occasionally to 
fill the kettle with boiling water. 



PLUM PUDDING. 

Mrs. H. E. Honghton« 

One cup suet, one cup sweet milk, one cup molasses, 
one cup sugar, one cup currants, two and a half cups 
raisins, four cups flour, one teaspoon cinnamon, one tea- 
spoon cloves, one teaspoon spice, one teaspoon soda ; 
boil three hours. 

ENGLISH FRUIT PUDDING. 

Mrs. H. S. BristoL 

One pound currants, one pound stoned raisins, one 
pound sugar, one pound suet, two pounds of grated or 
soaked bread, six eggs, one-half teaspoon saleratus, one 
teaspoon salt, and one grated nutmeg ; crumb the soft 
part of the bread fine ; soak the crust with boiling milk, 
or water will do ; beat up the eggn and put all together, 
mixing thoroughly with the hands ; take a square piece 
of cotton cloth and lay it in a tin pan, put the pudding 
into the cloth and tie down close ; put into a pot of boil- 
ing water, and boil five hours ; as the water boils away, 
keep adding- mora. 



170 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

ENGLISH PLUM PUDDING, 

M. Walker. 

One pound raisins (stoned), one pound of currants, 
one pound suet very finely chopped, one pound flour, 
seven eggs, two wineglasses brandy, three of sweet wine, 
sugar and spice to taste, (it may require a little sweet 
milk); tie it tightly in a well floured cloth, which should 
be first dipped in hot water, and boil four hours, or it 
may be boiled in a pudding form. 

SNOWDON PUDDING. 

Madame E. Fernet. 

Quarter pound bread crumbs, half pound suet, quar- 
ter pound sugar, two eggs well beaten, two tablespoons- 
ful preserves, two ounces candied citron or orange peel. 
Butter a mould or basin, stick some of the citron over it, 
pour in your mixture, and steam for three or four hours; 
melt some of the preserves, and pour over the pudding 
for sauce. 

FANNY L'S BATTEE PUDDING. 

Six eggs, eight tablespoons flour, one quart sweet 
milk, very little salt. Bake in a quiet oven. 

PLUM PUDDING. 

lira. E. Hempstead; 

One pint raisins, one pint currants, one pint suet, one 
pint flour, one-half pint bread crumbs, one cup milk, 
five eggs, epices to taste, a little candied orange and 



VALTJABLE BBOIPEfl. 171^ 

lemon ; mix all together and boil three hoars. To be 
eaten with wine sauce. 

BIED'S NEST. 

Mn. F. M. Oragin. 

Pare six or eight large apples (Spitzenbergs or Green- 
ings are best), and remove the core by cutting Irom the 
end down into the middle, so as to leave the apple whcle, 
except where the core has been removed ; place them as 
near together as they can stand with the open part up- 
ward in a deep pie-dish ; next make a thin batter, using 
one quart sweet milk, three eggs with sufficient flour, 
and poip: it into the dish around the apples, also filling 
the cavities in them ; bake them in a quick oven ; eat 
them with butter and sugar. * 

CHOCOLATE PUDDmG. 

MisB Riley. 

One quart milk, three tablespoons sugar, four table- 
spoons com starch, two and a half tablespoons choco- 
late; scald the milk over boiling water; dissolve the 
com starch in a little scalded milk, and before it thick- 
ens add the chocolate dissolved in boiling water; stir 
until sufficiently cooked. Use with cream, or sauce of 
butter and sugar stirred to a cream. 

COCOANUT PUDDING. 

C. A. Tinkham. 

One quart sweet milk, ten tablespoons grated cocoanut, 
one cup powdered sugar, and whites of ten eggs ; bake 



172 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

one hour, evenly and slowly ; to be served cold, with 
sugar and cream. 

ALMOND CUSTAED PUDDING. 

Mrs. D. 

Makt' a delicate sponge cake and stick it full of blanched 
almonds. Pour over a little wine, and then a rich 
vanilla custard. 

POTATO PUDDING. 

Boil until white, mealy, and very tender some potatoes ; 
rub them finely washed through a colander ; to a pint 
bowl of them while hot add one-quarter of a pound of 
butter, and mix well ; beat the yolks of six eggs well with 
one pound of fine sugar ; add the grated rind and juice 
of one lemon, and then the beaten whites ; stir lightly 
in, and bake in pie plates lined with paste ; eat cold. 

QUEEN'S PUDDING. 

Mrs. A. P. Wightman. 

One quart of sweet milk, one pint of bread crumbs, 
five eggs, one teaspoon of corn starch, one large or two 
small lemons, one cup of common sugar, and, one of 
pulverized sugar ; bring the milk to a scald, pour it over 
the bread crumbs and let it cool ; beat the yolks of the 
eggs and one cup of common sugar together, and mix in 
the corn starch also ; just before putting in to bake, add 
the grated rind of the lemon, and bake twenty minutes. 
Beat the whites of the eggs and one cup of pulverized 
sugar together, and add the lemon juice; when the 



VALUABLE BECIFES. 173 

pndding is done, put this on the top and set it in the 
oven again for a few minutes ; to he eaten cold. 

EOLY— POLY. 



Take one quart of flour ; make good biscuit crust ; roll 
cut one-half inch thick and spread with any kind of fruit, 
fresh or preserved; fold so that the fruit will not run 
out; dip cloth into boiling water, and flour it and lay 
around the pudding closely, leaving room to sweU ; 
steam one or one and one-haK hours ; serve with boiled 
sauce ; or lay in steamer without a cloth, and steam for 
one hour. 

STEAMED PUDDING. 

Mrs. Arthors. 

One cup suet, haK cup molasses, half cup sugar, two 
eggs, one cup sweet milk, two cups flour, one teaspoon- 
ful soda, two teaspoonsful cream tartar, dissolved in the 
milk, which you add the last thing. Butter a dish or 
bowl, strew raisins on the bottom ; steam two hours. 

PLUM PUDDING. 

Mi9. Gale. 

One and a half pounds of suet, one pound stoned 
raisins, one pound currants, eight eggs, half grated nut- 
meg, two ounces candied peel, one teaspoonful ground gin- 
ger, half pound bread crumbs, half pound flour, two 
pounds dark sugar, half pint milk. Boil ten hours and 
serve with brandy sauce. Excellent. 



174 THE HOME COOE BOOK. 

ftlCB PUDDING WITHOUT EGGS. 

Mrs. 0. H. Wheels and others. 

Two quarts of milk, half a teacup of rice, a little lesa 
than a teacup of sugar, the same quantity of raisins, a 
teaspoon of cinnamon or allspice ; wash the rice, and 
put it with the rest of the ingredients into the milk; 
bake rather slowly from two to three hours ; stir two or 
three times the first hour of baking. If properly done, 
this pudding is delicious. 

COTTAGE PUDDING. 

Mr. O. S. Whitaker. 

One cup of sugar, one cup of sweet milk, one pint of 
flour, two tablespoons of melted butter, one teaspoon of 
soda, two teaspoons of cream tartar, one egg. 

EICE AND APPLE PUDDING. 

Mrs. R. Beaty. 

One cup of rice boiled very soft ; stir well to keep from 
burning ; eight large apples, stewed ; press the pulp 
through a sieve, mix it thoroughly with the rice ; add 
half a teaspoonful of butter and yolks ot two eggs well 
beaten; sweeten to taste. Bake. Beat the whites of 
the eggs and put on the top. It is nicer almost cold. 

SUET PUDDING. 

Mrs. J. Kent. 

One cnp of suet, one cup of sour milk, one-half spoon 
soda, one cup sugar, nutmeg and salt, and flour to 
etiflen. 



YALUABLE RECIPES. 175 

A QUICK PUDDING. 

Mrs. A. W. D. 

One-half pint of milk, one-half pint of cream, three 
eggs beaten separately, little over one-half pint flour ; 
Boason with lemon or vanilla. 

BAKED INDIAN PUDDING. 

Two quarts scalded milk with salt, one and one-half 
cups Indian meal (yellow) ; one tablespoon of ginger, 
Icitting this Btand twenty minutes ; one cup molasses, 
two eggs (saleratus if no eggs), a piece of butter the size 
of a common walnut. Bake two hours. Splendid. 

COEN MEAL PUDDING. 

Etta 0. Springer. 

One quart of sweet milk, boiled ; stir "tn four table- 
spoons of com meal ; stand tiU cool ; put in four beaten 
eggs, sweeten to taste; two tablespoons of butter. 
Bake two hours. 

SAGO AND APPLE PUDDING. 

Mrs. Arthurs. 

Boil a cup of sago in boiling water with a little cinna- 
mon, a cup of sugar, lemon flavouring ; cut apples in 
thin slices, mix them with the sago ; after it is well 
boiled add a small piece of butter ; pour into pudding 
dish and bake half an hour. 



178 THE HOME COOK BOOJ[. 

YOEKSHIEE PUDDING. 

Mrs. S. McGee. 

When roasting a piece of beef lay it on sticks in your 
bake pan, so that the juice of the meat will drop into 
the pan below ; three-quarters of an hour before the beef 
is done, mix the following pudding and pour it into the 
pan under the meat, letting the drippings continue to 
fall upon it : one pint milk, four eggs well beaten, two 
cups flour, one teaspoon salt. 

LEMON PIE. 

Mrs. H. Baird. 

The juice and grated rind of one lemon, one cup of 
water, one tablespoon corn starch, one cup sugar, one 
egg, and a piece of butter the size of a small egg ; boil 
the water ; wet the corn starch with a little cold water, 
and stir it in ; when it boils up pour it on the sugar 
and butter ; after it cools add the egg and lemon. Bake 
with upper and under crust. 

AUNT LUCY'S APPLE CUSTAKD PIE. 

Peel some apples, stew until tender, (not too much 
water), put through the colander ; for one pie take three 
eggs, one-third cup butter, one-third sugar, flavour with 
lemon (fresh or extract), and nutmeg; use only the yolks 
of the eggs in the pie, and cover with the whites, and 
brown the same as for lemon pies. 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 177 

ORANGE PUBDINO. 

Mrs. Canon. 

Peel and cut five good oranges into thin slices, taking 
out all seeds ; put over them a coffee cap of fine white 
sugar. Let a pint of milk get boiling hot, by setting in 
hot water ; add the yolks of three eggs well beaten, one 
tablespoon of com starch made smooth in a little cold 
m ilk ; stir all the time, and as soon as thickened pour 
it over the fruit. Beat the whites to a stiff froth, add a 
tablespoon of sugar, and spread it over the top for frost- 
ing ; set in oven a minute to harden. Can be eaten 
hot, but is best cold. 

SNOW PUDDING. 

Mn. Frisbie. 

One-third of a box of gelatine, (the best you can find) ; 
soak ten minutes in cold water ; put un the stove and 
stir untn it is dissolved ; let it cool, then beat to a froth ; 
take the whites of two eggs beaten to a froth, one cup of 
sugar, flavour with lemon ; mix all together and put in 
small cups first wet in water, and set away to cool and 
harden. Make a soft custard of the yolks, turn over 
the pudding when cold, and it is ready for the table. 

COTTAGE PUDDING. 

Mrs. Ira Metcalf. 

One teacup of sugar, three tablespoons melted butter, 
one egg, one teacup of milk, two heaping cups of flour, 
one teaspoon of soda, two of cream tartar. If the milk 



178 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

be sour, leave out the cream tartar. Bake in a pan 
about half an hour ; add fruit if you like, it is quite an 
improvement. 

PUDDINGS. 

Mrs. Upham. 

Apple Dumpling. — One quart of flour, two table- 
spoonsful baking powder, two tablespoonfuls of lard or 
butter rubbed in flour, a little salt. Mix with water 
soft enough to roll. Slice your apples thin. Make 
either one large one or several small ones. 

Steam Fruit Pudding. — One cup sour milk, two eggs, 
butter size of half an egg, one teaspoonful of soda, a little 
salt. Stir flour to make a stiff batter. 

Sauce fob Pudding. — One half cup boiling water, 
one tablespoon corn starch, two tablespoonsful vinegar, 
one tablespoonful of butter, one cup sugar, one-half 
nutmeg. 

Floating Island. — Put a quart of milk over to boil, 
Bugar, salt, and flavouring to taste; separate three 
eggs ; beat the whites to a stiff froth ; drop them in the 
boiling milk from a tablespoon, letting them remain 
half a second ; then take two tablespoonsful and one- 
half of corn starch ; put it into the boiling milk ; let it 
remain five minutes, then add the yolks ; let it then 
boil two minutes, and take it off to cool ; then place it 
in a glass dish ; drop the whites upon it with a spoon- 
ful of currant jelly on each. 



VALUABLE BEdPES. 179 

PUDDINGS. 
l£n. Upham. 

Appi £ Float. — A pint of stewed, well-maslied apples, 
the whites of three eggs beaten (o a stiff froth, four 
large tablespoonsful of sugar ; then add the apples and 
sugar alternately, a spoonful of each, and beat all 
together until it stands up perfectly stiff ; it will swell 
immensely. Serve this in saucers on a custard made 
of the yolks of the eggs, one pint of milk, two table- 
spoonsful of sugar, and flavour with vanilla. 

Apple MERrNGUE. — Prepare a pudding dish two- 
thirds full of nice sour apples, add one and 
one-half cups of water, and one cup of brown 
sugar, and some salt. Cover closely, and let them 
sinmier in the oven until done to a mash. Beat the 
whites of five eggs, one cup of sugar, and the juice 
of a lemon, until they are a stiff froth ; pour over the 
apples and set in the oven to brown. Peaches or other 
canned fruits are very nice. The yolks of the eggs make 
a rich custard if beaten and stirred into a quart of boil- 
ing milk. Sweeten, season, and pour over it. 

BUET PUDDING. 

MIbs M. • 

Take three-quarters of a lb. of suet, three eggs, and 
haK pint of milk, flour sufficient to make a thick 
batter; to be well mixed together, and the suet not 
chopped too small ; boil two hours. 



180 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

"OUB OWN LITTLE PUDDINGS." 

Miss BrokoTski. 

Boil half a pint of milk, pour it over the crumbs of a 
"penny roll," or a "Sally Lunn" stale, two eggs, two 
ounces suet chopped fine, a little grated lemon peel, 
twelve bitter or sweet almonds ; sweeten to your taste 
with fine sugar, and a little nutmeg ; bake in teacup ; 
sweet sauce put over them. 

PBETTY PUDDING. 

Mrs. Charles Bradbury. 

One tablespoon flour wet with one-half cup of cold 
milk, the yolks of three eggs beaten, one small cup sugar ; 
mix these together ; put one quart of milk in a kettle 
and set it in boiling water ; when the milk is at the boil- 
ing point, stir in the above mixture with vanilla or rose 
flavouring ; stir till it begins to thicken, then take it off 
and let it cool a little ; pour it into a pudding dish or 
cups; then beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, 
add a teaspoon of fine white sugar, and drop it on the 
top of the custard in rounds about as large as an egg ; 
put a small spoon of currant or other tart jelly on the 
middle of each round ; serve cold. 

POUND CAKE PUDDING. 

Mtb. E. L. Nichols. 

One cup sugar, one-half of butter, rub to a cream, add 
one cup of milk, three eggs, the yolks and whites beaten 
separately, one teaspoon of soda in the milk, two tea- 



TALTJABLB RECIPES. 181 

epoons of cream tartar in the flour ; frnit ; bake or steam 
an hour. 

MADEIEA PUDDING. 

Mrs. J. H. Mead. 

Four eggs, four tablespoons butter, sugar and flour ; 
beat all very light and then add flavouring; bake in 
small cups in a quick oven ; serve immediately, with 
sauce. 

MATEIMONY SAUCE. 

Put a bit of butter into cold water in a saucepan, dust 
in a little flour, stirring one way till they are completely 
mixed ; then add some brown sugar and a tablespoonful 
or so of vinegar ; continue stirring till it boils ; pour into 
a sauce dish and serve with your dumplings. 

PUDDING— APPLE AND LEMON. 

Mrs. R. Beaty. 

Four eggs, whites of three to be kept for the top, six 
apples stewed or grated fine, four ounces of butter, six 
ounces of white sugar, juice and rind of one lemon. It 
is nicer cold. 

PRESERVES PUDDING. 

Mrf. R. Beaty. 

One pint of bread crumbs, one quart of milk, eight 
tablespoons sugar, yolks of four eggs ; beat yolks and 



182 THE HOME COOK BOOS. 

sugar together, then stir in the crumbs with the boiling 
milk and the rind of one lemon. When the pudding is 
done, beat the whites to a stiff froth with two table- 
spoons white sugar. Spread the pudding with jam or 
jelly over the top, then put on the whites of egg and 
bake to a light brown. ^ 

TEN CENT PUDDING. 

Mrs. Joseph Robinson. 

One cup of molasses, one cup of suet, one cup of cur 

rants, one cup of raisins, one and a half cups of milk, 

quarter of a teaspoonful of soda, three cups flour, 

spices to taste, and a little brandy or whiskey. 

If mixed over night so much the better, adding 

the soda in the morning dissolved in a little 

warm water; tie in a cloth like plum pudding, and 

steam three hours. This size must not be boiled. 

If double quantity is made four hours' steaming is 

required. Sauce made as for plum pudding, or wine 

sauce. This pudding is very nice warmed up the second 

day. 

BATTEE PUDDING. 

Mrs. E. L. Bristol. 

One pint of milk, four eggs, the yolks and whites 
beaten separately, ten tablespoons of sifted flour, a little 
salt ; beat in the whites of the eggs the last thing before 
baking ; bake half an hour. 

STEAMED BATTER PUDDING. 

Mrs. M. G. HubbelL 

Two eggs to two teacups of sour milk, two teaspoons 



TALUABLE BEOIPES. 183 

Baleratus and salt ; stir very thick or it will be heavy ; 
then add any f.T.it you wish ; steam two hours ; eaten 
with sweetened cream. 

AMHEEST PUDDING. 

Mrs. F. M. Ctagin. 

Three cups of flour, one of suet, one of milk, one oi 
mola:2ci, two of raisins ; salt and spice to your taste ; 
one teaspoon saleratus ; boil in a bag three hours. For 
sauce ; One cup of sugar, one-haJf of butter, one egg. 

CUP PUDDINGS. 

Mrs. ^Gdgley. 

Three eggs, three-quarters of a cup of sugar, the same 
of flour, the same of milk, about haK a cup of butter, 
and a teaspoonful and a half of baking powder ; butter 
your cups, pour in a small quantity of preserves, then 
fill with batter half way, and steam twenty minutes. 

MAKMALADE PUDDINGS. 

Mrs. J. H. Mead. 

Half pound suet, half pound grated bread crumbs, 
half pound sugar, three ounces orange marmalade ; mix 
these ingredients together with four eggs; boil four 
hours. Lay a few raisins open in the bottom of the 
mould. Sauce: Two ounces butter, ajid two ounces 
white sugar; beat to a cream and* flavour with brandy or 
lemon. 



134 THE HOME COOK BOOS* 

BUET PUDDING. 

Mrs. J. H. Mead. 

Half pound stale bread crumbs, three-quarters of & 
pound of flour, ten or twelve ounces of beef suet, half a 
teaspoon of salt, two eggs well beaten, one cup milk ; 
make into a smooth paste; add fruit if desired ; boil three 
and a half hours. 

POTATO PUDDING. 

Mrs. P. 

One pound of potatoes, half pound sugar, half pound 
butter, eight eggs, a nutmeg, sweet and bitter almonds 
to taste, one glass spirits, a small cup of cream ; potatoes 
and butter to be beaten to a cream, then the other 
ingredients added and let stand for two hours before it 
is ovened. This quantity makes a large pudding. 

APPLE AND BEEAD-CEUMB PUDDING. 

Mrs. S. MoMaster. 

Pare and chop fine half a dozen cooking apples, grease 
a pudding dish and put in a layer half an inch thick of 
grated bread, add bits of butter, put in a layer of chopped 
apples with sugar and nutmeg, and repeat till the dish 
is full ; pour over the whole a teacup of cold water ; bake 
thirty minutes. Eequires no sauce. 

COTTAGE PUDDING. 

Two eggs, one cup sugar, one cup milk, three and a 
half cups flour, one teaspoon soda, two cream tartar, 



VALUABLE BS0IPB8. 185 

one tablespoon butter melted and put in the last thing ; 
steam one and a half or two hours. 

PAEADISE PUDDING. 

One pint bread crumbs, one pint suet, four eggs, four 
apples minced fine, one cup currants, half-cup raisins, 
one cup milk, spice to taste ; thicken with flour, one and 
a half cups sugar ; put in a mould and steam or boil 
three and a half hours. 

SWEET MANCHESTEB PUDDING. 

One pint bread crumbs, three eggs, one cup sugar, 
one pint milk, piece of butter size of an egg, flavour with 
lemon; put a layer of bread crumbs in the dish, then 
one of jam, and so on till full; finish with crumbs ; pour 
the custard on the top. To be eaten with cream. 

SMALL AND CHEAP PLUM PUDDING. 

One cup suet, one cup raisins, one cup currants, one 
cup molasses, one egg, four cups flour, one cup milk, 
one teaspoon soda, one teaspoon cloves, one teaspoon 
cinnamon ; boil or steam three hours. 

QUEEN OF PUDDINGS. 

One pint of bread crumbs, one quart milk, four eggs, 
(the yolks), piece of butter size of an egg, sugar to sweeten, 
flavour with lemon. When baked, spread with jelly, 
then the whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff fi-oth, with a 
little sugar and lemon spread on the top ; brown slight* 
Iv in a hot oven. To be eaten with sugar and cream. 



186 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

SUET PUDDING. 

One cup suet, one of bread crumbs, one of flour, half- 
cup of milk with half a teaspoonful of soda, one cup 
molasses, one spoonful cream tartar. If you wish to 
make it richer, add a cup of currants and a few raisins. 

DELIGHTFUL PUDDING. 

One quart boiled milk, put one half of a tumbler of 
mashed potatoes, one half tumbler of flour, and a small 
piece of butter ; when cool add three beaten eggs ; bake 
half an hour. To be eaten with sugar and cream or 

milk. 

ANOTHER. 

One cup sugar, one egg, one spoonful of butter, one 
cup sweet milk, one pint flour, two and a half teaspoons 
of baking powder; bake three quarters of an hour; 
serve with sauce. 

COTTAGE PUDDING. 

Mrs. D. McCraney. 

Two cups of flour, one of sugar, one and a half cups 
of milk,',two tablespoons butter, one or two eggs, one tea- 
spoonful of cream of tartar and soda. Flavour with 
lemon ; bake one hour in a moderate oven ; serve with 
cream or sauce. 

FEENCH EICE PUDDING. 

Mrs. D. McCraney. 

Steam or carefully cook one cup full of rice. Mean- 
while take six grated tart apples, yolks of four eggs, ona 



tAiUABLB RECIPES. 187 

cup of sugar, nutmeg to tusie, one glass best wine, and 
one lemon, part of juice of which yon reserve for whites 
of eggs ; bake ihese, well whipped together, in the oven. 
Then form a pyramid of layers of rice and the apple 
mixture, making the first and last of rice ; then take 
the whites of the eggs whipped stiff and flavoured with 
the lemon juice ; cover the whole evenly with a long 
bladed knife dipped in cold water ; sift and put white 
sugar over the whole, and place in the oven until of a 
delicate brown colour. If the sugar be not sifted on 
top the surface is only glazed and pasty in appearance. 

CHEISTMAS PLUM PUDDING. 

Mrs. Snider. 

One pound raisins chopped fine, one pound currants, 
three-quarters pound bread crumbs, haK-pound flour, 
three-quarters pound of beef suet, three eggs, one-half 
pound citron and lemon peel, half a nutmeg, and one 
teaspoon ground ginger, two teaspoons cook's friend, 
Bweet milk enough just to wet aU ; tie in a cloth and boil 
three hours. 

STEAMED PUDDING. 

Mrs. Snider. 

One cup molasses, one cup suet, three cups flour, one 
cup sour milk, one teaspoon soda, two teaspoons cream 
tartar, one teaspoon ginger, one cup each of currants 
and raisins ; steam two hours. 

APPLE PUDDING. 

Mrs. Snider. • 

Pare and slice half a dozen cooking- apples ; grease a 



188 tHE HOME COOK BOOK. 

pudcling-disij, put a thick layer of grated bread crumbs, 
add bits of butter, then a layer of apples, with sugar 
find nutmeg, and repeat until the dish is full ; pour over 
the whole a teacup of cold water, and bake thirty min- 
utes. 

PLUM PUDDING. 

Miss M. E. Beard. 

-H^ pound of raisins, quarter pound of currants, 
quarter pound of sugar, bread crumbs, quarter of a 
pound of flour, half pound suet, six eggs, half cup milk ; 
nutmeg, cinnamon, and salt; half pound citron and 
lemon peel ; to boil five hours. 

CHAELOTTE PUDDING. 

Miss L. Stagman. 

Heat three pints of milk to a boiling point ; stir into 
it the yolks of eight eggs well beaten, and one largo 
tablespoonful of corn starch ; let it then thicken a 
little, and sweeten and flavour to taste. Lay slices of 
sponge cake in a pudding dish ; pour over the pudding ; 
add to the top of it the whites of eight eggs well beaten, 
and flavour with lemon; then set it in the oven to 
brown lightly. To be eaten cold. 

BEEAD PUDDING. 

Mrs. Freeman. 

Soak a pint of bread crumbs in milk for an hour, 
then squeeze with the hands to a pulp, and mix well 
with a gill of milk ; then add three tablespoons of sugar, 



VALUABLE EEfllPES. 189 

one-qTiarter pound raisins, one-quarter potmd of melted 
butter, and the yolks of four eggs ; then beat the whites 
of the eggs to a froth and mix with the rest ; turn the 
mixture into a dish and bake about forty minutes. 
Serve with wine sauce, hot or cold, according to taste. 

BAKED CEACKER PUDDING. 

Mrs. H. P. Stowell. 

Two quarts of sweet milk, seven Boston butter crackers 
rolled, three eggs, a little nutmeg, a little salt, s#eef en 
with sugar to taste. Bake two hours and a half in a 
moderate oven. 

THE QUEEN OF PUDDINGS. 

Mrs. John Morse. 

One pint of bread crumbs, one pint of milk, the yolks 
of three eggs ; bake in the oven a short time, until it 
becomes stiff; then place preserves over this, and beat the 
whites of the three eggs to a froth and lay all over this 
again ; sprinkle white sugar on the top, and allow it to 
brown in the oven for a few minutes. 

FIG PUDDING. 

Mrs. John Morse. 

Half pound suet, one pound figs, chopped ; one pound 
bread crumbs, half pound sugar, one egg, one nutmeg, 
haK teaspoonful of baking soda ; grease the tin mould 
weU ; boil three hours tied in a cloth ; it requires milk 
enough to moisten it, one cup of flour ; to be eaten with 
wine saucd. 



190 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

APPLE BEEAD PUDDING. 

Mrs. 0. L. Wheelock. 

Pare, core, and chop one-half dozen sour apples ; dry 
bread in the oven until crisp, then roll ; butter a deep 
dish and place in it a layer of crumbs and apples alter- 
nately, with spice, and one-half cup of beef suet chopped 
'fine ; pour in one-half pint of sweet milk, and bake till 
nicely browned; S ive with hard sauce. 

APPLE PUDDING. 

Mrs. W. Guthrie. 

Five eggs, one pint milk, four tablespoons flour, four 
apples grated ; bake one hour and a quarter. Serve 
with sweetened cream or pudding sauce. 

APPLE SAGO PUDDING. 

Mrs. K. 

One cup sago in a quart of tepid water, with a pinch 
of salt, soaked for one hour ; six or eight apples, pared 
and cored, or quartered, and steamed tender, and put in 
the pudding dish ; boil and stir the sago until clear, 
adding water to make it thin, and pour it over the 
apples ; this is good hot with butter and sugar, or cold 
with cream and sugar. 

HUCKLEBEERY PUDDING. 

Mrs. Bartlett. 

One brick loaf, wet it with boiling milk, say one pint, 
four eggs, little salt, and one quart of berries. Boil one 
f;,nd a half hours. Serve with wine sauce. 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 191 

BLACKBEEEY PUDDING OR OTHER BERRIES. 

One and one-half pints sifted flour ; put a little of this 
into one and one-half pints of fresh berries. To the 
balance of the flour add salt sufficient to season, one 
even teaspoon soda dissolved in one-half teacup of sweet 
milk, then fill the cup three-fourths full of syrup or 
molasses ; stir aU into a smooth batter ; lastly add the 
berries ; mix lightly so as not to break. Put into a 
buttered mould and place in boiling water that does not 
quite reach the top of the mould. Do not let it stop 
boiling for an instant. It must boil at least two hours. 
Serve with boiled sauce. 

FIG PUDDING. 

E. M. Walker. 

One-half pound figs, one-quarter pound grated bread, 
two and a half ounces powdered sugar, three ounces 
butter, two eggs, one teacup of milk. Chop the figs 
small and mix first with the butter, then all the other 
ingredients by degrees ; butter a mould, sprinkle with 
bread crumbs, cover it tight and boil for three hours. 

PLAIN FRUIT PUDDING. 

Mis. Hamilton. 

One cup of suet, three cups flour, one cup currants, 
one cup of molasses, one cup of milk, one teaspoon of 
Boda, one of salt, one of ginger, half teaspoon cloves, 
and one of cinnamon. Steam or boil three jor four 
hours. 



« 



192 THE HOME COOS BOOK. 

BATTER PUDDING. 

Mrs. Hamilton. 

Allow a pint of cold milk, four tablespoonsful of flour, 
two eggs, and a little salt ; stir the flour smooth in a 
part and beat them well with the mixed flour ; then add 
the remainder of the milk, and when well stirred together 
pour into a buttered dish and bake half an hour. 

TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

Mrs. J. D. OdeU. 

Soak one cup of tapioca over night, peel and core as 
many apples as needed, and fill the cores with sugar ; 
place them in a dish and pour over the tapioca, and 
bake until transparent. 

CUEEANT PUDDING. 

Mrs. Bartlett. 

Slice a baker's loaf, add butter, stew and sweeten 
three pints of currants, turn over the bread, and set 
away until cold. Serve without sauce ; slice the bread 
thin. 

LEMON PUDDING. 

Mrs. Wyllio. 

Half pound of sugar, half pound of butter, five eggs, 
half gill brandy, rind and juice of one large lemon; beat 
well the butter and sugar ; whisk the eggs; add them to 
the lemon, grate the peel ; line a dish with puff paste 
and bake in a moderate oven. 



VALUABLE BECTPES. 193 

BAKED BATTER PUDDING. 

Mrs. Wyllie. 

. Beat separately the yolks and whites of three eggs, 
mix three tablespoons of flour with a pint of milk and 
a small piece of batter ; add the eggs ; bake in a quick 
oven. Serve with sauce. 

STEAM PUDDING. 

Mrs. Wyllie. 

One and a-half cups flour, one and a-half cups suet, 
one cup of currants, one cup of golden syrup, spices to 
taste, two teaspoons cream of tartar. Steam four hours. 

CHERRY PUDDING. 

H. H. Jenks. 

A pint of bread crusts or soft crackers, scalded in a 
quart of boiling milk, piece of butter the size of an egg, 
one teaspoon of salt, three eggs, one and a half teacups 
of sugar if eaten without sauce, and if with sauce a 
tablespoon of sugar ; a pinch of pulverized cinnamon, 
and a quart of stoned cherries ; bake quickly. 

JELLY PUDDING. 

Mrs. C. H. Wheeler. 

One quart of milk, one pint of bread crumbs, yolks 
of four beaten eggs, one-half cup of sugar ; bake about 
half an hour ; when cool, spread jelly over the pudding, 
beat the whites with a Httle sugar, and spread on top 
for frosting ; set back in the oven a few minutes after 



194 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

the whites have been spread on the pudding ; excellent 
for Sunday dinners, as it may be eaten cold. 

KISS PUDDING. 

Mrs. G. Belford. 

One quart of milk, three tablespoons of com starch, 
yolks of four eggs, half cup sugar, and a little salt ; put 
part of the milk, salt, and sugar on the stove and let it 
boil ; dissolve the corn starch in the rest of the milk ; 
stir into the milk, and while boiling add the yolks. 
Flavour with vanilla. 

Feosting. — Whites of four eggs beaten to a stiff froth, 
haK a cup of sugar ; flavour with lemon, spread it on 
the pudding, and put it into the oven to brown, saving 
a little of the frosting to moisten the top ; then put on 
grated cocoanut to give it the appearance of snow flake. 

CABINET PUDDING. 

Mrs. Wyllie. 

Take three or four penny sponge cakes, cut into 
squares ; line a well buttered mould with raisins ; place 
the cake in the mould, adding raisins ; pour over a rich 
custard, and steam for one and a half hours. 

TO MAKE A DANDY PUDDING. 

Miss Brokovski. 

One pound of flour, half a pound of currants, half a 
pound of suet, four ounces of treacle, a little nutmeg ; 
mix it well together with milk, and boil it four hours. 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 195 

MEEINGUE PUDDING. 

Mrs. C. A. Bogers. 

One pint of stale bread crumbs, one quart of milk, the 
yolks of four eggs, butter the size of an egg, a small cup 
of sugar, salt, the grated rind of one lemon ; bake three- 
quarters of an hour. When cool, spread the top with 
preserves or jelly ; beat the whites of the eggs with five 
tablespoons of pulverized sugar ; spread on the pudding, 
and brown in a quick oven ; eat with cream. 

OKANGE PUDDING. 

Urs. J. G. Hamilton. 

Peel and cut five sweet oranges into thin slices, taking 
out the seeds ; pour over them a coffee cup of white 
sugar ; let a pint of milk get boUing hot, by setting it 
in a pot of boiling water ; add the yolks of three eggs 
weU beaten, one tablespoon of com starch, made smooth 
with a nttle cold milk ; stir all the time ; as soon as 
thickened, pour over the fruit. Beat the whites to a 
Btiff froth, adding a tablespoon of sugar, and spread 
over the top for frosting ; set it in the oven for a few 
minutes to harden ; eat cold or hot (better cold), for 
dinner or supper. Berries or peaches can be substituted 
for oranges. 

LEMON PUDDING. 

Mm. White. 

Put in a basin one-fourth pound of flour, the same of 
Bugar, same of bread crumbs and chopped suet, the juice 



196 THE HOME CJOOK BOOK. 

of one good- sized lemon, and the peel grated ; two egga, 
and enough milk to make it the consistency of porridge ; 
boil in a basin for one hour ; serve with or without sauce. 

CEACKED WHEAT PUDDINa. 

Mrs. A. M. Lewis. 

Cook cracked wheat enough for two meals ; stir in a 
few minutes before taking up, raisins, dates, or any 
dried fruit ; next day prepare a custard as usual, and 
stir thoroughly through the wheat, and bake just long 
enough to bake the custard ; thus you have two desserts 
with but little trouble. Very palatable and nutritious. 

•GEEMAN PUDDING. 

A. 8. Ewing. 

Beat six eggs separately until very light ; add one pint 
milk to the yolks, six tablespoons flour, one-half spoon 
butter, one-half nutmeg and saltspoon salt ; stir in whites 
of eggs last. Bake half an hour. 

Sauce. — Six tablespoons sugar, one-half pound butter 
worked to a cream, one egg, one wineglass wine, one-half 
nutmeg ; put on the fire and let it come to a boil. 

CHOCOLATE PUDDING. 

Mrs. E. Wood. 

One and a half quarts milk, boiled, one-half cake of 
chocolate stirred in milk, small cup of corn starch dis- 
solved in little water, add two eggs, with one cup of 
sugar, a little salt. Cream for sauce. 



Valuable becipes. 1&7 

OEANGE PUDDING. 

, Mrs. 8. F. McMaster. 

Peel and cut five good sweet juicy oranges into tliin 
slices, taking out all the seeds ; pour over them a coffee 
cup of white sugar. Let a pint of milk get boiling hot 
by setting in boiling water ; add the yolks of three eggs 
well beaten, one tablespoon com starch made smooth in 
a little cold milk ; stir all the time, and as soon as thick- 
ened pour over the fruit. Beat the whites to a stiff 
froth ; add a tablespoon sugar and spread it on for 
frosting ; set it in the oven a few minutes to harden. 
Substitute any fruit if you prefer; peaches are nice 
done this way. 

STEAM PUDDING. 

Mrs.B. 

Two cups flour, half cup suet, one cup sugar, one cup 
milk, one egg, a teaspoonful of soda, fruit to suit your 
taste ; steam two and a half hours. 

CAEROT PUDDING. 

Mrs. McMaster. 

One and a half cups flour, one cup sugar, one cup suet, 
one cup raisins, one cup currants, one cup potatoes 
grated, one cup carrots grated, one teaspoon soda ; steam 
or boil three hours. 

BOILED PLUM PUDDING. 

Mrs. HiU. 

One cup milk, one cup molasses, one cup suet chopped, 



198 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

one cup raisins, one teaspoon soda, three cups flour, 
half a nutmeg ; boil three hours and serve with wine 
sauce. 

TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

Mrs. Bioe. 

Cover three tablespoons tapioca with water ; stand 
over night ; add one quart milk, a small piece of butter, 
a little salt, and boil ; beat the yolks of three eggs with 
a cup of sugar, and boil the whole to a very thick cus- 
tard ; flavour with vanilla ; when cold cover with whites 
of eggs beaten. 

CEEAM TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

Mrs. A. T. HaU. 

Soak three tablespoons of tapioca in water over night ; 
put the tapioca into a quart of boiling milk, and boil 
half an hour ; beat the yolks of four eggs with a cup of 
sugar : add three tablespoons of prepared cocoanut ; stir 
in and boil ten minutes longer ; pour into a pudding 
dish ; beat the whites of the four eggs to a stiff froth, 
stir in three tablespoons of sugar ; put this over the top 
and sprinkle cocoanut over the top and brown for five 
minutes. 

SNOW PUDDING. 

" Mrs. D. 

One-half package Coxe's gelatine ; pour over it a cup 
of cold water and add one and one-half cups of sugar ; 
when soft, add one cup boiling water, juice of one 



VALUABLE BECIPE8. 199 

lemon and the whites of four well beaten eggs ; beat all 
together until very light ; put in glass dish and pour 
over it custard made as follows : One pint milk, yolks of 
four eggs and grated rind of one lemon ; boil. Splendid. 

EICE SNOW BALLS. 

Boil a pint of rice in two quarts of water, with a tea- 
spoon of salt, until quite soft, then put it in small cups, 
having them quite full ; when perfectly cold, turn them 
into a dish, take the yolks of three eggs, one pint of 
milk, one teaspoon com starch; flavour with lemon, 
and cook as you do soft custard ; turn over the rice half 
an hour previous to eating it. This is a nice dessert in 
hot weather. Sweet meats are a good accompaniment. 

CHOCOLATE PUFFS. 

Mrs. 0. L. Parker. 

One pound sugar sifted, one ofchocolate chopped very 
fine ; mix together ; beat the white of an egg, and stir in 
your chocolate and sugar ; continue to beat until stiff 
paste ; sugar your paper, drop them on it, and bake in a 
slow oven. 

CEEAM PUFFS. 

Mrs. Watson Thatcher. 

One and one-haK cups of flour, two-thirds of a cup of 
butter, one-half pint of boiling water ; boil butter and 
water together, and stir in the flour while boiling ; let it 
cool, and add five well-beaten eggs ; drop on tins, and 
bake thirty minutes in a quick oven. Fill them with the 



200 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

following: One pint of milk, one cup of sugar, two- 
thirds of a cup of flour, two eggs ; beat the eggs, flour, 
and sugar together, and stir them in the milk while it is 
boiling. When partially cool flavour with lemon. Theee 
are favourites in bake shops. 

^ DESSEET PUFFS. 

Mrs. N. 0. Gridley. 

One pint s^jreet milk, scant pint flour, three eggs, 
(whites and yolks beaten separately) ; bake in cups. To 
be eaten with liquid sauce. 

PUFF PUDDING. 

Mrs. 0. A. Bogers. 

Five tablespoons of flour, five tablespoons of milk, five 
eggs stirred smooth; turn on a pint of boiling milk, and 
bake twenty minutes. To be eaten with hard sauce 

GEEMAN PUFFS. 

H. M. Brewer. 

One pint sweet milk, five tablespoons flour, one table- 
spoon melted butter, six eggs, leaving out the whites of 
three ; bake in buttered cups, half filled, twenty minutes 
in hot oven. 

Fob Sauce. — Beat the whites of five eggs to a stiff 
froth, and one coffee cup powdered sugar, and the juice 
of two oranges ; turn the pudding from the cups on to a 
platter, and cover with the sauce just before sending to 
the table. 



TALUABLE BE0IPE3. 201 

GEEMAN PUFFS. 

Mrs. E. P. Thomas. 

One pint sweet milk, fonr eggs, five tablespoons flonr, 
%nd a little salt. Bake three quarters of an hour. 

LEMON FRITTEES. 

After Marion Harland. 

Beat up the whipped and strained yolks of five eggs 
with one-half a cup of powdered sugar ; add the grated 
peel of half a lemon, one teaspoon of mingled nutmeg 
and cinnamon, a little salt, and one-half a cup of cream ; 
then the whites of the eggs, and then two heaping cups 
of prepared flour ; work all together quickly and lightly 
into a soft paste, just stiff enough to roll out ; pass the 
rolling-pin over it until it be about three-quarters of an 
inch thick ; cut into small circular cakes with a tumbler 
or cake-cutter, and fry in hot lard. They ought to puS 
up like crullers. Drain on clean hot paper, and eat 
warm with a sauce made of the juice of two lemons and 
the grated peel of one, one cup of powdered sugar, one 
glass of wine, and the whites of two eggs beaten stifU 



PUDDING SAUCES. 



** I oraok mj brains to find ont tempting eanoef , 
And raise fortifioatlons in the pastry." 



PUDDING SAUCE. 

Anonymona. 

One cup of butter, one cup of milk, one cup of sugar, 
three eggs, flavour to taste. 

PUDDING SAUCE. 

^ Mrs. Dunham. 

One-half cup of butter, one cup of sugar, two eggs 
well beaten, and pour on one cup of holing water ; 
flavour with nutmeg or other flavour. 

PUDDING SAUCE. 

Mrs. A. B. Scranton. 

Four tablespoons of white sugar, two tablespoons of 
butter, one tablespoon of flour ; beat all to a cream and 
add the white of one egg well beaten ; then add one gill 
boiling water ; stir well ; flavour to taste. 

FOAMING SAUCE. 

Mrs. King. 

One-half teacup of butter, the same of sugar ; beat 
tc a froth ; put in a dish and set in a pan of hot water ; 



VALUABLE BEaPES. 203 

add a tablespoon of hot water, or if preferred a little 
vaTiilla ; stir one way until it comes to a very light 
foam. 

WINE PUDDING SAUCE. 

One cup of sugar, one-half cup butter, one-half cup 
of wine, one egg ; beat butter, sugar, and eggs together ; 
set it on the stove and heat, pour in the wine, add a 
little nutmeg ; pour from one dish to another a few 
times, and send to the table. 

WINE SAUCE. 

^. A. T. 

Two teacups of sugar, one teacup of butter, ; stir to 
a cream ; beat two eggs very ligHt, and stir all together ; 
add one teacup of wine ; mix and set on top of tea ket- 
tle of boiling water. It must not be put on the stove, 
nor boil. 

PUDDING SAUCE. 

Mrs. E. Beaty. 

One cup of milk, one teaspoonful butter, one egg, one- 
half cup pulverized sugar, one glass wine, nutmeg, one 
teaspoonful com starch; beat sugar and butter to- 
gether weU ; beat the egg well, and mix. Boil the milk 
and cornstarch, and mix aU together before bringing to 
table. 

EXTRA NICE PUDDING SAUCE. 

Mrs. Hamilton. 

One cup of butter, two of sugar, weU beaten, then 



204 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

add two eggs and beat some-time ; when ready for cook- 
ing add a cup of sherry wine, and put it over a pot of 
boiling water, and let it cook ten minutes, stirring very 
often. It is then ready for the table. 

PUDDING SAUCE. 

Mrs. B. P. Hntohinson. 

Two eggs well beaten, one cnp pulveri/ed sugar. 
When mixed pour over one cup boiling milk, and stir 
rapidly. Flavour as you please. 

PUDDING SAUCE. 

Mrs. Andrews. 

One cup of sugar, one-half cup of butter, yolks of 
three eggs ; one teaspoon of corn starch or arrow root ; 
stir the whole until very light; add sufi&cicut bo'ling 
water to make the consistency of thick cream ; wine or 
brandy to suit the taste. 

SAUCE FOE APPLE PUDDING. 
M. 

Boil good molasses with a Httle butter and serve hot, 

HAKD SAUCE FOE PUDDINGS, RICE, ETC.^ 

M. 
Take one teacup sugar, one-half teacup butter, stir 
together until light; flavour with wine or essence of 
lemon. Smooth the top with a knife and grate nutmeg 
over it. 



VALUABLE BEOIPES. 205 

WINE SAUCE. 

Brown one cup oi sugar and a piece of butter the size 
of a hen's egg, in a saucepan. Pour two-thirds of a 
teacap of boiling water slowly over the mixture ; when 
ready to serve add one-half cup of currant wine. 

WINE SAUCE. 

Mrs. Palfiifer. 

Two oi:nces of butter, two teaspoons of flour, one- 
quarter 01 J. pound of sugar, one gill of wine, and half a 
nutmeg ^jt ied ; mix the flour and butter together, add 
one-half ^:mt boiling water and the sugar and wine , 
just before serving add the grated nutmeg. Serve hot. 

GEEMAN SAUCE. 

M. D. Harris. 

The whites of two eggs, the juice of one lemon, sugar 
enough to beat up to a proper consistenc for serving. 



PIES. 



PASTRY. 



Drinli now the strong beer, 

Cut Ibe white loaf here, 
The -while the meat is ashredding 

For the rare mmce pie, 

J*nd the plums stand by 
To fill the paste that's a kneading. 

— OliB SONO. 



FINE PUFF PASTEY. 

One pound of flour, a little more for rolling pin and 
board, and half a pound of butter and half % pound of 
lard. Cut the butter and lard through the floi r (which 
should be sifted) into small thin shells and mix with 
sufficient ice water to roll easily. Avoid kneading it and 
use the hands as little as possible in mixing. 

PLAINEE PASTEY. 

One cup of butter, one cup of lar i, a little salt, cut 
through the flour and mix lightly together. Some cooks 
mix the lard through the flour and mix with water and 
then roll out ; when in a sheet cut the batter into thiD 
sheets, fold over and lay aside, cutting off from the roP 
wliat is used ior the bottom or top crust as wanted. 



Valuable recipes. 207 

PASTRY OF GRAHAM FLOUR. 

Half a pound of Graham flour, one cup of sweet cream, 
a little salt ; mix and roll and bake in the usual way 
with fruit between the crusts. 

RICE PIE. 

Mi8. A. B. Ewlng. 

One quart of mLi, bo ed ; one sma\ teacup of rice 
flour mixed in a little cold miik; add to the boiling milk 
two tablespoons of butter ; when cold, add five eggs well 
beaten ; sweeten to taste ; flavour with vauilla, and bake. 

FRUIT PIE. 

Mrs. L P. Car;'.', 

Must be baked in a two-quart tin basin ; to givo it the 
right shape the basin must be of nearly the same size 
top and bottom ; first make a nice pie crust ; put a layer 
of it in the bottom, but not around the side of the dish ; 
then a layer of chopped sour apples, two inches thick ; 
then a layer of chopped raisins ; sprinkle sugar over 
this, pieces of butter, and any spice you like — cloves and 
nutmeg are nice ; another layer of crust and fruit, etc., 
until your dish is full ; put a crust on the top ; bake 
slowly for two hours ; when done, turn bottom upwards 
on a plate, and before putting it on the table sprinkle 
fine sugar over it. It is quite as good when warmed 
again as when first baked. It takes one pound of 
raisins, ten or twelve good sized apples, two large cupa 
of sugar, more if you like. 



208 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

CENTENNIAL APPLE PIE. 

Miss L. Winstanley. 

Peel one dozen and a half of good apples, take out the 
cores, cut them small, put into a stewpan that will just 
hold them with a little water, a little cinnamon, two 
cloves, the rind of a lemon ; stew over a slow fire until 
quite soft, then sweeten them, pass it through a hair 
sieve, add the yolks of four eggs and one white, quarter 
of a pound of good butter, half a nutmeg, the peel of a 
lemon grated, and the juice of one lemon ; beat all well 
together ; line the inside of the pie dish with good pu2 
paste ; put in the pie and bake half an hour. 

PUMPKIN PIE. 

Mrs. Carson. 

One quart of strained pumpkins, two quarts rich milk, 
one teaspoon of salt, and two of ginger cooked with the 
pumpkins ; six well beaten eggs, and one and a half tea- 
cups of sugar. 

MINCE PIE. 

Mrs. Carson. 

Three cups chopped cooked meat, six cups of apples 
chopped fine ; make moist with boiled cider and sweeten 
with molasses or dark sugar ; spice to your taste, using 
cloves, cinnamon, allspice, and a very little black pepper ; 
put cu/rants and raisins into the pies when ready to 
bake. 



TALUABLE RECIPES. 209 

PIE PLANT PIE. 

Mrs. Carson. 

One Clip of stewed pie plant, one cup of sngar, one 
tablespoon of flour, yolk of one egg ; flavour •with lemon ; 
beat all together thoroughly. Don't use pie plant too hot 
for fear it -will cook the egg. Bake with just an under 
ciust, and use white of an egg for frosting. 

LEMON PIE. 

Mrs. Carson. 

One lemon rind and juice, one cup of sugar, one cup 
of water, one tablespoon of com starch cooked in water 
till thick, three eggs, two of whites saved for frosting, 
half cup of sugar. 

COCOANUT PIE. 

Mrs. C. Belford. 

One-half pound grated cocoanut, three-quarters of a 
pound of white sugar, six ounces of butter, five eggs (the 
whites only), two tablespoonsful rose water, one tea- 
spoonful nutmeg. Cream the butter and sugar, beat 
till very light, and add the rose water ; then add the 
cocoanut with as little and Hght beating as possible ; 
finally whip in the stiffened whites of the eggs with a 
iow skilful strokes, and bake at once in open shells. 
Eat cold, with powdered sugar sifted over them. These 
are very pretty and delightful pies. 



'210 TEE HOME COOE BOOK. 

LEMON PIE. 

Mrs. George Virtue. 

The juice and rind of two lemons, two cups wbita 
Bugar, one cup. of milk, two tablespoonsful corn starch, 
yolks of ten eggs ; bake in two pies ; beat the whites of 
eggs to a froth ; beat into it a teaspoonful powdered 
sugar ; pour over the pies, and put in the oven to brown. 

MINCE PIES. 

Miss Prissie. 

Three pounds of raisins, stone and chop them a little ; 
three pounds of currants, three pounds of sugar, three 
pounds of suet chopped very fine, two ounces candied 
lemon peel, two ounces of candied orange peel, six large 
apples grated, one ounce of cinnamon, two nutmegs, 
the juice of three lemons- and the rinds grat' d^ and half 
a pint of brandy. Excellent. 

LEMON PIE. 

Miss Prissie. 

The juice and rind of one lemon, one cup ot supar, 
the yolks of two eggs, two tablespoonsful of flour, a tea- 
cupful of milk ; line the dish with paste ; pour in the 
custard ; bake until done ; heat the whites of the eggs ; 
add four tablespoonsful of powdered sugar, spread on 
the pie and brown lightly. 



VALUABLE BECIPE8* 211 

LEMON PIE. 

Mrs. Joseph Sanlter. 

One lemon, one cup of sugar, half a cup water, two 
eggs, one teaspoonful butter ; line your pie plate with a 
nice crust ; pour in the above ; bake in a quick oven. 

ANOTHER. 

One lemon, one tablespoonful^orn starch, butter the 
size of an egg, one teacup of sugar, one teacup water ; 
bake as above. 

MOCK MINCE PIES. 

Mrs. J. King. 

Sis tablespoons of rolled crackers, two cups of warm 
water, one cup of chopped raisins, one cup of whole 
raisins, half a cup of vinegar, half a cup of melted butter, 
one cup of yellow sugar, one cup of molasses, one table- 
spoon cinnamon, cloves, and nutmeg. 

LEMON PIE. 

Mrs. G. Wyllie. 

Half a cup of butter, two cups of sugar, two cups of 
sweet milk, yolks of six eggs, one tablespoon of flour, 
one good lemon ; use whites for frosting. 

LEMON PIE. 

Mrs. Carson. 

One lemon, juice and rind grated, one cup of sugar, 
yolks of two eggs, one cup of water, one heaped table- 



212 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

spoonful of com starch ; put all in a small tin pail, 
stand the pail in a pot of boiling water, and boil thick ; 
make a nice puff paste, line the plate and cook the paste 
alone; when done a very light brown pour in.j'^our mix- 
ture ; put- on the top the whites of the eggs beaten stiff 
with sugar. 

LEMON EAISIN PIE. 

Anonymons. 

One cup of sugar, one lemon, one cup of raisins, one 
cup "water; chop lemon and raisins fine, cook in the 
water three-quarters of an hour. 

MINCE PIES. 

Six pounds of lean fresh beef boiled tender, when 
cold, chopped fine, a pound of beef suet chopped fine, 
five pounds of apples chopped, two pounds of raisins, 
(seeded), two pounds currants, half a pound of citron, two 
tablespoons of cinnamon, one of grated nutmeg, one 
tablespoon of cloves, one tablespoon of allspice, one 
tablespoon of salt, three pounds of brown sugar, a quart 
of wine, pint of brandy, and the liquor the meat is boiled 
in. Keep in a stone jar tied over with a double paper. 
It should be made, at least, the day before it is used, 
and when you make pies add a little more wine to what 
you take out for the pies, and more chopped apples. 

MINCE MEAT. 

Mrs. Higgins. 

Six pounds of beef and six pounds of apples, chopped 



VALUABLE REdPES. 213 

fine; four pounds of sugar, two of citron, tliree of raisins, 
three of currants, one of suet, two quarts of boiled cider, 
one-half cup of salt, two nutmegs, two tablespoons of 
ground cloves, two of allspice, two of cinnamon ; when 
used, enough sweet cider should be added to make the 
mixture quite moist. 

MINCE MEAT. 

Mrs. J. M. Darand. 

Two pounds of raisins, one of currants, one of suet, 
two and one-half of sugar, one-quarter of citron, one- 
eighth of cinnamon, two chopped pippins, three lemons, 
two nutmegs ; wine, brandy, and cloves to taste. 

MINCE PIE. 

Mrs. James Morgan. 

Boil beef until tender (three pounds after it is boiled) ; 
when cold, chop fine ; add three pounds of fine chopped 
suet, and mix with the beef ; add a tablespoon of salt, 
six pounds of apples, four pounds of currants, six pounds 
of raisins, two pounds of citron; season to taste with 
powdered cinnamon, mace, cloves, and nutmeg; add 
boiled cider, brandy, and wine until quite soft ; mix well 
and pack in stone jars, pour brandy over the top and 
cover tightly. This will make about five gallons ; add 
two pounds sugar. 

MOCK MINCE PIE. 

Mrs. G. F. DeForest. 

One egg, three or four large crackers, or six or eight 



214 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

small ones, one-half cup of molasses, one-half cup sugar, 
one-half cup vinegar, one- half cup strong tea, one cup 
chopped raisins, a small piece butter, spice and salt, 

CEEAM PIE. 

Mrs. M. A. Green. 

Boil nearly one pint of new milk ; take two small 
tablespoons of corn starch beaten with a little milk ; to 
this add two eggs ; when the milk has boiled, stir this 
in slowly with one scant teacup of sugar and one-half 
cup of butter, two teaspoons of lemon. Cakes : Three 
eggs, one cup of white sugar, one and a half of flour, 
one teaspoon of baking powder, mix it in flour ; three 
tablespoons of cold water ; bake in two pie-pans in a 
quick oven ; split the cake while hot, and spread in the 
cream. 

OEANGE TAET. 

Mrs. P. 

Squeeze two oranges and boil the rind tender, add 
half a teacupful of sugar and the juice and pulp of the 
fruit, an ounce of butter ; beat to a paste ; line a shal- 
low dish with light puff paste, and lay the paste of 
orange in it. 

MINCE PIE. 

Mrs. Samnel Piatt. 

Two pounds of boiled tongue, four pounds of suet, 
six pounds of currants, three pounds of chopped apples, 
the peel and juice of two lemons, a pint of sweet wine, 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 215 

a nutmeg, a quarter of an ounce of cloves, a quarter ol 
an ounce of mace, one pound of citron, one pound of 
orange and lemon peel. 

CEANBEEEY TAET. 

Mrs. P. 

Take Cranberries, pick and wash them in several 
waters, and put them in a dish with the juice of half a 
lemon, quarter pound of moist sugar or pounded loaf 
sugar, to a quart of Cranberries ; cover it with puff paste 
or short crust, and bake it three-quairters of an hour. 
If short crust is used, draw it from the oven five minutes 
before it is done, and ice it ; return it to the oven, and 
send it to the table cold. 

CEEAM PIE. 

Mrs. John Thomaa. 

One cup powdered sugar, one cup flour, one teaspoon 
cream tartar and one-half teaspoon soda, five eggs beaten 
separately, grated rind of lemon. Cream: Set in hot 
water one-half pint of milk; when scalding hot add one- 
half cup sugar, a little salt and one egg beaten together ; 
Btir until thick, and when cool add one tablespoon 
YanUla ; put between crusts. 

SQUASH PIE. 

Mrs. P. B. Ayer. 

One crust, one small cup of dry maple sugar dissolved 
in a little water, two cups of strained squash stirred in 
the sugar ; add four eggs, two teaspoons of allspice, two 



216 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

cups of milk, one teaspoon of butter, and two of ginger, 
added last. This makes two pies. 

SQUASH PIE. 

Mrs. L. H. Davis. 

Two teacups of boiled squash, three-fourths teacup of 
brown sugar, three eggs, two tablespoons of molasses, 
one tablespoon melted butter. One tablespoon ginger, one 
teaspoon of cinnamon, two teacups of milk, a little salt. 
Make two plate pies. 

OUSTAED PIE. 

Mrs. E. E. Marcy. 

Make a custard of the yolks of three eggs with milk, 
season to the taste ; bake it in ordinary crust ; put it in 
a brick oven, that the crust may not be heavy, and as 
soon as that is heated remove it to a place in the oven 
of a more moderate heat, that the custard may bake 
slowly and not curdle ; when done, beat the whites to a 
froth ; add sugar and spread over the top, and return to 
the oven to brown slightly ; small pinch of salt added to 
a custard heightens the flavour ; a little soda in the 
crust prevents it from being heavy. Very nice. 

TOEONTO PIE. 
Mrs. D. 

One cup of sugar, three eggs, one and one half cups 
of flour, one teaspoon of baking powder; flavour to 
taste; bake as for jelly cake in layers, and spread between 
the layers raspberry jam. 



VALUABLE BECIFES. 217 

COCOANUT PEE. 

M:3. Thomas. 

Grate fresli cocoanut ; to one cup of cocoanut add^ *ie 
and one-hall cups of sweet milk, the yolks of four eggs, 
a little salt, and sweeten to taste ; one tablespoon of 
ia*dted butter ; beafc the whole five or six minutes ; beat 
the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and put over the 
fop just long enough to slightly brown before taking the 
pie from the oven. If you use dessicated cocoanut, soak 
it in the milk over night. 

COCOANUT PIE. 

Mrs. Saulter. 

One and one-half pints of milk, six eggs, one cocoa- 
nut, three cups of sugar, one-half cup of butter ; mix 
sugar and butter, then the eggs, then the cocoanut, and 
lastly the milk. 

LEMON TARTS. 

Mrs. Edward Thomas. 

Mix well together the juice and grated rind of two 
lemons, two cups of sugar, two eggs, and the crumbs of 
sponge cake ; beat it all together until smooth ; put into 
twelve patty pans lined with puff paste, and bake until 
the crust is done. 



CUSTARDS, CREAMS, ETC. 



*' They serve np ealmon, yenison, and wild boui, 

By hundreds, dozens, and by scores,' 
Hogsheads of honey, kilderkins of mustard, 
Plum puddings, pancakes, apple pies, and oostard.** 



EICE CUSTARD. 

Mrs. G. M. Diokerman. 

To half a cup of rice, add one quart of milk, and a 
little salt ; steam one hour, or until quite soft; beat the 
yolks of four eggs with four tablespoons of white sugar ; 
add this just before taking off the rice ; stir in thoroughly, 
but do not let it boil any more ; flavour with vanilla. 
Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, with sugar ; 
after putting the mixture into the pudding dish in 
which you serve it, put the whites over it, and let it 
slightly brown in the oven. 

EICH CUSTARD. 

Mrs. Morgan. 

One quart of cream, the yolks of six eggs, six ounces 
of powdered white sugar, a small pinch of salt, two 
tablespoons of brandy, one tablespoon of peach water, 
half a tablespoon of lemon brandy, an ounce of blanched 
almonds pounded to a paste ; mix the cream with the 
sugar, and the yolks of the eggs well beaten , scald them 



Valuable becipes. 21d 

together in a tin pail in boiling water, stirring all the 
time until sufficiently thick ; when cool, add the other 
ingredients, and pour into custard cups. 

BOILED CUSTAED. 

Mrs. T. EingBford. 

Two tablespoons of the com starch to one quart of 
milk ; mix the com starch with a small quantity of the 
nulk and flavour it ; beat up two eggs. Heat the re- 
mainder of the nulk to near boiling, then add the mixed 
com starch, the eggs, four tablespoons of sugar, a little 
h itter and salt. Boil it two minutes, stirring briskly. 

BOILED CUSTAED. 

Mrs. B. M. Pickering. 

One quart milk, eight eggs, one-half pound of sugar ; 
beat to a good froth the eggs and sugar. Put the milk 
iu a tin paU and set it in boiling water ; pour in the 
eggs and sugar and stir it until it thickens. 

TAPIOCA CEEAM. 

Mrs. Bendelari. 

One teacup of tapioca, soaked over night in a pint of 
milk ; in the morning add one quart more, and when 
boiled till the tapioca is clear add the yolks of three 
eggs, well beaten, with one cup of sugar. Beat the 
whites to a foam. Sweeten and flavour the whole with 
vanilla. This pudding is better eaten cold. 



220 »HE HOME COOK BOOK. 

CHOCOLATE CUSTAED. 

Mrs. Higgins. 

Three ounces Baker's chocolate, three pints milk, font 
tablespoons white sugar, two tablespoons brown sugar ; 
prepare a soft custard of the milk and the yolks of five 
eggs and the white of one ; dissolve the chocolate in a 
cup of warm milk and heat it to boiling point ; when 
cool, sweeten it with brown sugar and flavour with the 
extract of vanilla ; pour the whole into a dish and cover 
with the whites of the five eggs beaten stiff, with a little 
BUgar ; brown slightly and serve cold. 

SAGO CUSTAED. 

C. D. Adams. 

Three tablespoons sago boiled in a little water till 
clear ; add one quart of milk, let it come to a boil, then 
add five or six well-beaten eggs and sugar to taste. Put 
the vessel containing the custard in a kettle of boiling 
water ; stir it briskly till it thickens a little ; flavour 
with vanilla after it is partly cool. 

APPLE CUSTAEB. 

Mrs. F. B. Orr. 

Pare, core, and quarter one dozen tart apples, strew 
into it the grated rind of one lemon ; stew until tender 
in very little water ; then mash smooth with back of a 
spoon. To one and a half pints of strained apple, add 
one and a quarter pounds sugar ; leave it until cold ; 
beat six eggs light and stir alternately into one quart of 



\ 



VALUABLE EEOIPES. 221 

milk with the apples ; put into cups or deep dish, and 
bake twenty minutes ; to be eaten cold. 

APPLE CUSTAEDS. 

Mrs. C. M. Dickerman. 

Take six tart apples, pare and quarter them, put into 
a baking dish with one cup water ; cook until tender, 
but not to pieces, then turn them into a pudding dish 
and sprinkle sugar over to cover them ; beat eight eggs 
with sugar, and mix with them three pints of milk, a 
little nutmeg ; turn it oyer the apples, and bake twenty- 
five minutes. 

. CAEAMEL CUSTARD. 

Mrs. Perry Smith. 

One quart of milk, one cup of white sugar, one cup 
of brown sugar, two tablespoons com starch, four eggs 
and a pinch of salt and vanilla. Place the milk with 
the white sugar and salt in a farina kettle over the fire ; 
if you have not such a kettle, a tin pail set in a pot of 
hot water will answer the purpose ; beat the eggs with- 
out separating in a large bowl, and wet the com starch 
with a Httle cold milk ; put the brown sugar in a tin 
pan and set over the fire ; stir until it is thoroughly 
scorched, but not burned ; then turn the scalding milk 
on the eggs ; put the mixture in the kettle again over 
the fire ; stir in the com starch until it thickens ; lastly, 
stir in the scorched sugar and remove from the fire ; 
then add a generous amount of vanilla. The scorched 
sugar falls into the custard in strings, but these will 



222 THE HOUE CODE BOOS. 

dissolve with vigourous stirring after removal from Iho 
fire. Turn into custard glasses and serve cold. 

FLOATING ISLAND. 

Mrs. E. Ei Maroy. 

One-half package gelatine, one pint of water ; soak 
twenty minutes ; add two cups of sugar ; set it on the 
stove to come to a boil; when nearly cold, add the 
whites of four eggs beaten stiff, the juice and rind of 
two lemons, and pour into a mould ; turn over the form. 
Make a custard of the yolks of four eggs, a quart of 
milk, and a small tablespooniul of corn starch ; sweet- 
en to taste. 

FLOATING ISLAND. 

Mrs. E. S. Miller. 

One tumbler of currant jelly, one pint of powdered 
sugar, five eggs ; beat the whites of the eggs very stiff 
Defore putting in the jelly ; then beat well ; add the 
sugar gradually and beat it perfectly stiff; chill it 
thoroughly on the ice and serve in a glass dish half 
filled with cold milk ; cover it with the island in spoons- 
ful standing in peaks. It is to be eaten with cream. 

APPLE FLOAT. 

Mrs. 0. L. Parker. 

To one quart of apples, partially stewed and well 
mashed, put the whites of three eggs well beaten, and 
four heaping tablespooons of loaf sugar ; beat them to- 



VALtTABLE EECIPES. 223 

gether for Efteen minutes, and eat with rich milk and 
nutmeg. 

WHIPPED CEEAM. 

Mix one pint of cream with nine tablespoons of fine 
sugar and one gill of wine in a large bowl ; whip these 
with the cream dasher, and as the froth rises, skim into 
the dish in which it is to be served. Fill the dish full 
to the top, and ornament with kisses or macaroons. 

SPANISH CEEAM. 

Mrs. J. H. Brown. 

Boil one ounce of gelatine in one pint of new milk 
until dissolved ; add four eggs well beaten and half a 
pound of sugar ; stir it over the fire until the eggs thick- 
en ; take it off the fire and add a full wine-glass of peach 
water ; and when cool pour it into moulds ; serve with 
cream. 

VELVET CEEAM. 

Mrs. R. Harris. 

Nearly a box of gelatine, soaked over nigh| in a cup 
of wine ; melt it over the fire, with the sugar ; when it 
is warm, put in a quart of cream or new milk and strain 
it into moulds. If the wine is too hot, it will curdle the 
milk. 

CHOCOLATE CEEAM. 

Mrs. Bpruance. 

Soak one box of Coxe's English gelatine (in cold water 
sufficient to cover) one hour ; one quart of milk boiled j 



224 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

scrape two ounces of French chocolate, mix with eight 
spoons of white sugar; moisten this with three spoons of 
the boiling milk ; then stir in the gelatine and the i oiks 
of ten well-beaten eggs ; stir three minutes briskly ; take 
off, strain, and add two teaspoons of vanilla ; strain and 
put in moulds to cool. Serve with sugar and cream. 

CHOCOLATE CEEAM. 

Mrs. Eing. 

Half a cake of chocolate dissolved in a little hot water; 
put in a cup of milk, and when it boils have five eggs 
well beaten and mixed with two cups of milk; pour the 
hot chocolate into the eggs and milk ; stir well and boil 
all together for a few minutes ; sweeten to your taste. 
To bo eaten cold. 

COCOANUT PUFFS. 

The whites of three eggs, one cup of ground sugar, 
one teaspoonful of the extract of vanilla, one table- 
spoonful of corn starch, two cups of dessicated cocoa- 
nut. Beat the whites well, then add the sugar, and 
beat over steam, until a crust forms on the bottom and 
sides of the dish. Take it off the steam, add the other 
ingredients and drop in small pieces on buttered tins. 
Bake rather quickly to a light brown. 

CHOCOLATE CAEAMELS. 

Miss E. Winstanley. 

One cup of grated chocolate, three cups of sugar, one 
cup of molasses, one cup of milk, and a small piece of 



VtALXJABLE RECIPES. . 225 

bntter. Boil for about twenty minutes, stirring all the 
time ; pour into a buttered pan ; wlien nearly cold mark 
off in Email squares. 

COFFEE CKEAM. 

Soak half an ounce of Coxe's gelatine in a little cold 
water half an hour ; then place it over boiling water and 
add one gill of strong coffee and one gill of sugar ; 
when the gelatine is well dissolved, take from the fire ; 
stir in three gills of cold cream and strain into your 
mould. Be sui-e that this has been previously wet with 
cold water. 

ORANGE CREAM. 

Make according to above rule, adding one gill of 
orange juice and the grated rind of one orange which 
has been previously soaked in the orange juice while the 
gelatine is dissolving over the boiling water, and the 
beaten yolka of two eggs when you take off, and quite 
hot. 

APPLE CREAM. 

Mrs. Mann. 

One cup thick cream, one cup sugar, beat till very 
smooth; then beat the whites of two eggs, and add; 
stew apples in water till soft ; take them from the water 
with a fork ; steam them if you prefer. Pour the cream 
over the apples when cold. 



226 THE HOME OOOE BOOK. 

FEUIT CEEAMS. 

The»3 consist of a rich cream ; blano mange poared 
over fruit and set on ice to chill. 

PISTACHIO AND ALMOND CEEAMS. 

Make a nice vaniUa ice-cream ; have ready pistachio 
nuts, which have been prepared by pouring boiUng water 
over them and letting them stand in it a few moments ; 
then strip off the skins and pound to a paste in a mor- 
tar, and mix with the cream. Freeze. 

ITALIAN CEEAM. 

E. V. Case. 

Take one quart of cream, one pint of milk sweetened 
very sweet, and highly seasoned with sherry wine and 
vanilla ; beat it with a whip dasher, and remove the 
froth as it rises until it is all converted into froth. Have 
ready one box of Coxe's sparkling gelatine dissolved in 
a little warm water ; set your frothed cream into a tub 
of ice ; pour the gelatine into it, and stir constantly 
until it thickens, then pour into moulds, and set in a 
cool place. 

TAPIOCA CEEAM. 

Two tablespoons of tapioca dissolved very soft, three 
yolks of eggs beaten and sweetened to the taste ; boil 
one quart of milk, when cool stir in the tapioca and 
flavour ; beat the whites very hght and mix aU together ; 
let boil ten minutes, pour into moulds. 



TALUABLE RECIPES. 227 

TAPIOCA MERINGUB% 

Mrs. Spru&nce. 

One teacup of tapioca soaked in one and a half pinta 
of warm water three hours ; peel and core eight tart 
apples ; fill apples with sugar, grating a little nutmeg 
or moistening with wine. One hour before needed pour 
the tapioca over the apples and bake, serving in the 
dish baked in. The addition of the whites of four well- 
beaten eggs spread over the top and browned slightly 
improves it. 

LEMON SPONGE. 

Mrs. Lambkin. 

Two ounces of gelatine ; pour over one pint of cold 
water ; let it stand fifteen minutes ; add half a pint of 
boiling water, three-quarters of a pound of white sugar, 
and the juice of four lemons. When the gelatine is cold, 
before it begins to get firm, add the well beaten whites 
of three eggs ; beat the whole fifteen minutes, until the 
mixture is quite white, and begins to thicken; then put 
in a mould first wet in cold water. 

SNOW SOUFFLE. 

Mrs. J. Looifl Harris. 

Beat the whites of two eggs to a etiff froth ; dissolve 
one-half box of gelatine in a little more than a pint of 
hot water, two cups of sugar, and the juice of two 
lemons ; when this is dissolved and cooled, stir into it 
the eggs you have beaten, beat the whole together until 



228 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

it is white and stiff; mould and pour around it soft 
cu Btard. 



CHAELOTTE RUSSB. 

Mrs. A. M. Qibbi. 

Whip one quart rich cream to a stiff froth, and drain 
well on a nice sieve. To one scant pint of milk add six 
eggs beaten Very light ; make very sweet ; flavour high 
with vanilla. Cook over hot water till it is a thick cus- 
tard. Soak one full ounce Coxe's gelatine in a very little 
■yater, and warm over hot water. When the custard is 
fery cold, beat in lightly the gelatine and the whipped 
cream. Line the bottom of your mould with buttered 
paper, the sides with sponge cake or lady-fingers fasten- 
ed together with the white of an egg. Fill with the 
cream^ put in a cold place or in summer on ice. To 
turn out dip the mould for a moment in hot water. In 
draining the whipped cream, all that drips through can 
be rewhipped, 

CHAELOTTE EUSSB. 

Mrs. J. P. HoU. 

Take one quart of thin cream, sweeten and flavour ; 
whip the cream until all in froth ; then take half box of 
gelatine, put in as little cold water as possible to soak, 
and set on the stove to melt ; have the gelatine cool be- 
fore putting into the cream ; have a dish already lined 
with cake or lady-fingers, pour the cream into it and aet 
on ice until ready for upe. 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 2^9 

CHAKLOTTE. 

Mrs. W. W. KimbalL 

One quart rich cream, three tablespoons of Madeira 
^rine, whites of two eggs berien to a stiff froth, one tea- 
cup of powdered sngar, half a box of gelatine -'Issolved 
in half a cup of sweet milk ; flavour with vanilla ; beat 
the cream and wine together; add the eggs, then the. 
sugar, and last, the gelatine. 

RICE CHARLOTTE. 

E. M. Walker. 

Blanch one-fourth pound of rice, and boil in one quart 
of milk, with a Httle sugar and vanilla ; when soft, let it 
cool, and then mix it with one pint of whipped cream ; 
oil a mould and fill with a layer of rice and preserves, or 
marmalade, alternately; let it stand until stiff, and then 
turn it out. 

BLANC MANGE— ARROWROOT. 

Mrs. P. B. Ayer. 

Boil one quart of milk, reserving one gill to wet up 
your arrowroot with ; when it boils up, stir in two and a 
half tablespoons of arrowroot, and after a few minutes 
add one tablespoon crushed sugar, one tablespoon rose- 
water, and a httle salt; pour into moulds. 

CHOCOLATE MANGE. 

S. D. F. 

One box of Coxe's gelatine dissolved in a pint of cold 



230 THE HOME COOK BOOfi:. 

water, three pints of milk ; put over to boil, with one 
cup of French chocolate ; when the milk is just scalded, 
pour in the gelatine ; sweeten to taste ; boil five min 
utes, then take from the fire, flavour with vanilla, pour 
into moulds. When cold, serve with powdered sugar 
and cream. 

MONT BLANC. 

Mrs. P. B. Orr. 

One-third box of gelatine, grated rind of two lemons, 
two cups of sugar, one pint of boiling water. Before 
the mixture gets stiff, stir in the whites of five eggs 
beaten to a stiff froth. Eat with custard, boiled, made 
with yolks of eggs and one pint of boiling milk. Sweet- 
en to taste, flavour with vanilla. Excellent. 

A SIMPLE DESSEET. 

A. S. Ewing. 

Put a teacup of tapioca into sufficient cold water ; boil 
until the lumps become almost transparent ; squeeze 
the juice of two lemons partially into the mixture, then 
slice them into it, sweeten or not, then eat when cold, 
with cream and sugar. 

JELLIED GEAPES, 

Mrs. A. M. Lewis. 

A very delicate dish is made of one-third of a cup of 
rice, two cups of grapes, half a cup of water, and two 
spoons of sugar. Sprinkle the rice and sugar among 
the grapes, while placing them in a deep dish ; pour on 



Valtjablb recipes. 231 

the water, coyer close and simmer two honrs slowly in 
the oven. Serve cream as sauce, or cold as pudding. 
If served warm as pudding, increase slightly the pro- 
portion ci rice and sugar* 



ICES. 



Glittenng sqoares of coloured ice, 
Sweetened with syrups, tinctured witb spice | 
Creams and cordials and sugared dates ; 
Syrian apples, Otiimanee quinces, 
Limes and citrons and apricots. 

And wines that are known to Eastern princes.' 
• •••••• 

And all that the cnrious palate could wish, 
Pass in and out of the cedarn doors. 

— T. B. Aldbich. 

Use one part of coarse table salt to two parts of ice 
broken the size of a walnut. This should be firmly 
packed around the cream pail to the height of the freezer. 
For three pints of cream, one and a half pints of water 
should be poured over the ice in the freezer, and for 
every additional quart of cream one pint of water should 
be added to the ice after packing. When there is no 
ice-cream freezer convenient, ices may be frozen by put- 
ting the cream to be frozen in a tin pail with a close 
cover. This ice and salt for packing may be put in a 
larger pail and packed firmly around the pail of cream 
to be frozen. Let this stand to chill for twenty or thirty 
minutes, then remove the cover and stir the freezing 
mixture within until stiff. Then re-pack, cover the 
whole closely with a woollen cloth or carpet and leave 
for an hour or two in a cool place. 



VALUABLE RECIPES. t&3 

CUEKANT ICE. 

One pint of currant juice, one pound of sugar, and 
one pint of water; put in freezer, and when partly 
frozen add the whites of three eggs well beaten. 

ORANGE AND LEMON ICES. 

The rind of three oranges grated and steeped a few 
moments in a little more than a pint of water ; strain 
one pint of this on a pound of sugar and then add one 
pint of orange or lemon juice ; pour in the freezer, and 
when half frozen add the whites of four eggs beaten to 
a stiff froth. 

ORANGE ICE. 

Juice of six oranges, grated peel of three, juice of two 
lemons, one pint of sugar, one pint of water, and freeze 

STRAWBERRY ICE CREAM. 

Mrs. Thomas. 

Mash with a potato pounder in an earthen bo"«l one 
quart of strawberries with one pound of sugar, rub it 
through the colander and add one quart of sweet cream 
and freeze. Very ripe peaches or coddled apples may 
be used instead of strawberries. 

LEMON ICE. 

Mrs. Carson. 

Six lemons, juice of all and grated rind of three, one 
large sweet orange, juice and rind, ono pint of water, 



?34 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

one pint of sugar'; squeeze out every drop of juice, and 
Bteep in it the rind of orange and lemons one hour, strain, 
squeezing the bag dry ; mix in the sugar, and then the 
water ; stir until dissolved, and freeze by turning in a 
freezer, opening three times to beat all up together. 
Many prefer it to ice cream. 

OEANGE ICE. 

Mrs. Carson. 

Six oranges, juice of all, and grated peel of three, two 
lemons, the juice only, one pint of sugar, dissolved in 
one pint of water; prepare and freeze as you would 
lemon ice. 

ICE CEEAM. 

M. 

One pint milk, yolks of two eggs, six ounces sugar, one 
tablespoon corn starch ; scald until it thickens ; when 
cool, add one pint whipped cream and the whites of two 
eggs, beaten stiff ; sweeten, flavour, and freeze. 

ICE CEEAM. 

Ifn. W. H. Ovington. 

Scald one quart of milk with one sheet of isinglass 
(broken), and a vanilla bean; when cool, strain, mix 
with one pint of cream whipped to a froth ; sweeten to 
taste and freeze. 



VALUABLE BBCIPB8. 235 

A NICE DESSEKT DISH. 

Mn. J. Thomey. 

Fill a qnart bowl with alternate layers of thinly sliced 
apples and sugar, and add half a cup of water, covered 
with a saucer, held in place by a weight ; bake slowly 
three hours; let it stand until cold, and you wiU turn 
out a round mass of clear red slices, imbedded in firm 
jeUy. For an accompaniment to a dessert of blanc 
mange, rennet custard, cold rice pudding, or similar 
dishes, or even with nice bread and butter, there is noth- 
ing better. 

AN EXCELLENT DESSERT. 

Mrs. J. Yoong Scammon. 

One can or twelve large peaches, two coffeecups of 
sugar, one pint of water and the whites of three eggs ; 
break the peaches with and stir all the ingredients to- 
gether ; freeze the whole iut j form ; beat the eggs to a 
froth. 



DISHES FOR DESSERT. 



SNOW DRIFTS. 

Mrs. S. MoMaster. 

Half a box of gelatine, one pint of boiling water, juIm 
of two lemons, two cups of sugar, whites of five eggs ; 
dissolve the gelatine in the water ; add the lemon and 
sugar mixed together ; put in mould to cool ; when cool, 
but not cold, take the whites of the eggs beaten stiff, 
sweetened and flavoured, and float them on boiling milk 
for about one minute. Now take the gelatine from your 
mould (instantly place the mould in cold water), and 
with a fork beat up the gelatine that has become firm 
into bits, but not into liquid. Now take your mould 
and add spoon about of the broken up jelly and the 
whites of eggs, filling up the mould with the jelly that 
became soft in spite of you ; place to cool. Serve on a 
dish surrounded by a custard made from the yolks of 
the eggs and one more ; one pint of milk. 

MACEDOINE OF FEUIT. 

Wine jelly and fruit in alternate layers frozen together. 
The fruit may be of any and all sorts, and may be can- 
died or preserved, or slices of pear, apple, etc. ; may be 
boiled in syrup and then drained ; the mould must be 



VALUABLE BECIPES. 237 

filled after the jelly has begun to form, but before it is 
stiff, and the first layer should be of jelly ; when filled, 
place the mould in salt and ice prepared as for freezing 
fee cream; coyer closolj, and let it remain several 
hours. 



FRUITS. 



«• Fruit of all kinds, in coat 
Rongli, or Bmooth rind, or bearded husk, or Bhell, 
She gathers tribute large, and on the board 
Heaps with unsparing hand." 

— Fabidibk Lost. 

Bring me berries or Buch cooling fuJi 
As the kind, hospitable woodB provide. 

— CoWPtB. 

Fruits for preserving should he carefully selected, 
removing all that are imperfect. They are in the best 
condition when not fully ripe, and as soon as possible 
after they are picked. Small fruits should not be 
allowed to stand over night after they are picked when 
they are to be preserved. Use only the finest sugar for 
preserving. When fruit is sealed in glass cans, wrap 
paper of two or three thicknesses around the cans. The 
chemical action of light will affect the quality of the 
preserves when perfectly air-tight. With this precau- 
tion, glass cans are preferable to any other for preserv* 
ing fruit. One-half a pound of sugar to a pound of fruit 
is a good rule for canned fruit, although many house- 
keepers use but one-quarter of a pound of sugar to a 
pound of fruit. 

An excellent rule for canning the larger fruits, as 
peaches, pears, etc., is to place them in a steamer over 
a kettle of boiling water, laying first a cloth in the bot- 



VALUABLE BECIPES. 239 

torn of the steamer. Fill this with the fmit and cover 
tightly. Let them steam for fifteen minutes, or until 
they can be easily pierced with a fork, (some fruits will 
require a longer time). Make a syrup of sugar of the right 
consistency. As the fruit is steamed, drop each for a 
moment in the syrup, then place in the cans, having 
each one -half full of fruit, and then fill up with the hot 
syrup, then cover and seal. 

A SUGGESTION. 

For canning all large fruits, where no other method 
Is given by contributors, the directions for canning large 
fruits are given in the recipe for Preserved Peaches. 
For canning all of the small fruit, follow the directions 
given in preserved Cherries. They are both excellent. 
If less sugar is preferred use one-quarter of a pound of 
sugar to a pound of fruit. The syrup should be pre- 
pared by adding a pint of water in your preserving ket- 
tle to each, pound and a half of sugar ; let it boil up 
gently and skim until perfectly clear, when it is ready 
for the fruit. 

SUGARED FEUITS. 

Beat the white of the egg just enough to break, then 
dip fine stems of cherries or currants into the egg and 
then into powdered sugar, and dry on a sieve. 

BAKED APPLES. 

Pare as many apples as you wish of some nice variety, 
neither sweet nor sour ; core them by using an apple 



240 THE HOME OOOK BOOK. 

corer or a steel fork ; set tliem in bi-^cuit tins and fill 
the cavities Tntb sugar, a little butter, and some ground 
cinnamon, if you like ; set them in the oven and bake 
until done. 

BAKED PEAES. 

Place in a stone jar, first a layer of pears (without par- 
ing) ; then a layer of sugar, then pears, and so on until 
the jar is full. Then put in as much water as it will 
hold. Bake in oven three hours. Very nice. 

QUINCE PBESERVE. 

Mrs. Bendelari. 

Pare, core, and quarter your fruit, then weigh it and 
aUow an equal quantity of white sugar. Take the peel- 
ings and cores and put in a preserving . kettle ; cover 
them with water and boil for half an hour ; then strain 
through a hair sieve and put the juice back into the 
l^ettle and boil the quinces in it a little at a time until 
they are tender ; lift out as they are done with a drainer 
and lay on a dish ; if the liquid seems scarce add more 
water. "When all are done throw in the sugar and allow 
it to boil ten minutes before putting in the quinces ; let 
them boil until they change colour, say one hour and a 
quarter, on a slow fire ; while they are boiling occasion- 
ally slip a silver spoon under them to see that they do 
not burn, but on no account stir them. Have two fresh 
lemons cut in thin slices, and when the fruit is being put 
in jars lay a slice or two in each. 



VALUABLE RECIPEg. ' 241 

BAKED QUINCES. 

One dozen nice qninces, cored and well rubbed. Put 
in baking pans, and fill the centre "vdlh pulverized sugar. 
Bake and serve cold, with or without cream. 

PRESEEYED PEACHES. > 

Select peaches of fine quality and firnj. If too ripe 
they are not likely to keep perfectly. Pare them and 
place them in a steamer over boiling water and cover 
tightly ; an earthen plate placed in the steamer under 
the fruit will preserve the juices which afterwards may 
be strained and added to the syrup. Let them steam 
for fifteen minutes or until they can be easily pierced 
with a fork ; make a syrup of the first quality of sugar, 
and as the fruit is steamed drop each peach into the 
syrup for a few seconds, then take out and place in the 
cans; when the cans are full, pour over the fruit the hot 
syrup and seal immediately. Inexperienced house-wivea 
wiU do well to remember that the syrup should be well 
skimmed before pouring over the fruit. We prefer the 
proportions of haK a pound of sugar to a pound of fruit 
for canning, although many excellent house-keepers use 
less. This rule is excellent for aU of the large fruits— 
as pears, quinces, apples, etc. 

PRESEEYED PLUMS. 

Jennie Jane. 

Allow to every pound of fruit three-quarters of a 
pound of sugar ; put into stone jars alternate layers of 
fruit and sugar, and place the jars in a moderately warm 



242 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

oven. Let them remain there until the oven is cool. 
If prepared at tea time let them remain until morning ; 
then strain the juice from the plums, boil and clarify it. 
Eemove the fruit carefully to glass or china jars, pour 
over the hot syrup and carefully cover "with egg, tissue 
paper, or thick white paper pasted, or bladder tied 
closely down. 

PEESEKVED PEARS. 

Mrs. Midglej. 

To six pounds of pears, four pounds of sugar, two 
coffee cups of water, the juice of two lemons, and the 
rind of one, a handful of whole ginger ; boil all together 
for twenty minutes, then put in your pears and boil tiU 
soft, say about a quarter of an hour ; take them out and 
boil your syrup a little longer ; then put back your fruit 
and give it a boil ; bottle whilst hot ; add a little cochi- 
neal to give them a nice colour. 

PBESERVED CHEEEIES. 

Jennie Jane. 

Stone the fruit, weigh it, and for every pound take 
three-quarters of a pound of sugar. Ffrst dissolve the 
sugar in water in the proportion of a pint of water to a 
pound and a half of sugar; then add the fruit and let it 
boil as fast as possible for half an hour, till it begins to 
jelly. As soon as it thickens put in pots, cover with 
' brandied paper, next the fruit, and then cover closely 
from the air. 



VALUABLE BECIPES. 243 

CAJTNED CHEERIES. 

Prepared in the same maimer, allowing but half a 
pound of sugar to a pound of fruit ; after putting the 
fruit into the syrup let it scald, (not boil hard), for ten 
or fifteen minutes and then can and seal. A few of the 
cherry stones put in a muslin bag and put into the syrup 
to scald with the fruit imparts a fine flavour; they 
should not be put in the jars with the fruit. This 
method is excellent for use with all the small fruits, as 
strawberries, raspberries, and also plums. 

PRESERVED ORANGE PEEL. 

Mrs. A. N. Arnold. 

Peel the oranges and cut the rinds into narrow shreds, 
boil till tender, change the water three times, squeeze 
the juice of the orange over the sugar ; put pound to 
pound of sugar and peel ; boil twenty minutes all to- 
gether. 

CITRON PRESERVES. 

Carter. 

Cut the citron in thin slices, boil in water with a small 
piece of alum until clear and tender, then rinse in cold 
water. Make a syrup of three -fourths pound of sugar 
to a pound of citron ; bol a piece of ginger in the syrup ; 
then pour the citron in and let it boil for a few minutes. 
Put in one lemon to five of the fruit. 



244 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

SPICED PEACHES OR PEAES. 

Mrs. Henry M. Knickerbocker. 

To ten pounds good mellow peaches, use five pounds 
sugar, oije pint of good vinegar, and some whole cloves 
or cinnamon. Take the sugar, vinegar, and cloves, and 
'et them come to a boil, and turn over the fruit. This 
do three days in succession, and the last day put the 
fruit into the syrup, a few at a time, and let them just 
boil up, 

CANNED PINE APPLE.' 

Mrs. F. L. Bristol. 

For six pounds of fruit when cut and ready to can 
make syrup with two and a half pounds of sugar and 
nearly three pints of water ; boil syrup five minutes and 
skim or strain if necessary ; then add the fruit, and let 
it boil up ; have cans hot, fiU and shut up as soon as 
possible. Use the best white sugar. As the cans cool 
keep tightening them up. 

CANNED STEAWBERRIES. 

Miss Blaikie. 

After the berries are pulled, let as many as can be put 
carefully in the preserve kettle at once, be placed on a 
platter. To each pound of fruit add three-fourths of a 
pound of sugar; let them stand two or 'three hours, till 
the juice is drawn from them ; pour it in the kettle and 
let it come to a boil, and remove the scum which rises ; 
then put in the berries very carefully. As soon as they 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 245 

come thorougbly to a boil put them in warm jars, and 
seal while boiling hot. Be sure the cans are air tight. 

CANNED CUESANTS. 

Mrs Wicker. 

Put sufficient sugar to prepare them for the table, 
then boil them ten minutes and seal hot as possible. 

GELATINE JELLY. 

Mra. W. ArthnrB. 

Small packet gelatine, pint and a half boiling water 
poured on the gelatine, stir until dissolved ; one teacup of 
white sugar, a little tartaric acid, the whites of three eggs 
beaten, flavour with lemon ; pour into a shape and let 
stand till next day. 

APPLE PEESERVE, GOOD. 

E. Pemet. 

Weigh equal quantities of good brown sugar and 
apples, peel, core, and cut the apples into small square 
pieces ; make a syrup of one pint of water to three 
pounds of sugar, boil until pretty thick, then add the 
apples, the grated peel of a lemon or two, a Uttle whole 
white ginger (if Hked) ; boil until the apples are clear 
and begin to fall, then it will be done. 

TO CAN TOMATOES. 

Mrs. Edward Ely. 

Wash your tomatoes and cut out any places that are 



246 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

green or imperfect ; then cut them up and put over to 
cook with a little salt ; boil them till perfectly soft ; then 
strain them through a colander ; turn them back to cook, 
and when they have come to boiling heat, pour them 
into stone jugs (one or two gallon jugs, as you prefer). 
They will keep a day or two in winter if all are not used 
at a time; put the cork in, and have some canning 
cement hot and pour over the cork. The jug must^. of 
course, be hot, when the tomatoes are poured in. 

CBANBERRY SAUCE 

Mrs. Bartlett. 

One quart cranberries, one quart water, one quart 
sugar, stew slowly. 

LEMON BUTTEIU 

Mrs. D. S. Monger. 

Beat six eggs, one-fourth pound butter, one pound 
sugar, the rind and juice of three lemons ; mix together 
and set in a pan of hot water to cook. Very nice foif 
tarts, or to eat with bread. 

PEACH BUTTEE. 

Mrs. M. L. 

Take pound for pound of peaches and sugar; cook 
peaches alone until they become soft, then put in one- 
half the sugar, and stir for one-half hour; then the 
remainder of sugar, and stir an hour and a half. Season 
with cloves and cinnamon. 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 247 

TOMATO BUTTER. 

Mrs. Johnson. 

Nine ponnds peeled tomatoes, three pounds sugar, one 
pint vinegar, three tablespoons cinnamon, one tablespoon 
cloves, one and one-half tablespoons allspice : boil three 
or four hours until quite thick, and stii often, that it 
may not burn. 

APPLE JELLY. 

Mrs. J. H. Brown. 

Take green apples that will cook nicely; quarter 
the apples without paring, put them in a pan or kettle 
and cover over with water, and keep them covered ; let 
them boil slowly until entirely done ; then put in a bag 
and drain (not squeeze) them. Put a pound of white 
sugar to a pint of juice. This is very easily made in the 
winter ; is best made day before using. 

APPLE JELLY FOR CAKE. 

Mrs. P. B. Ayer. 

Grate one large or two small apples, the rind and juice 
of one lemon ; add one cup sugar ; boil three minutes. 

DAMSON CHEESE. 

Mrs. J. H. Mead. 

Twelve pounds of damsons ; put them into the oven ; 
when they are soft take out the stones, crack them, and 
then blanch the kernels, then add three and a half 
pounds of lump sugar ; boil about three hours ; wet the 



848 Tffiii HOME COOK BOOZ. 

moulds before using them ; weigh the damsons before 
they are put into the oven. 

APPLE JELLY. 

Miss Beatj. 

Boil tart peeled apples in a little water till glutinous, 
strain out the juice, and put a pound of white sugar to 
a pint of juice. Flavour to taste ; boil till a good 
jelly, then put into moulds. 

APPLE JELLY. 

Take seven pounds of ripe apples — such as are excel- 
lent boilers — and if the rind is red the colour of the jelly 
will be beautifully tinged ; cut the fruit in pieces, with- 
out peeling or extracting the cores, and only removing 
the stalks and the eyes ; add two quarts of water, and 
boil or bake tiU the whole is a pulp, which pour into a 
jelly bag, placed near the fire, (as the pulp thickens in 
cooling); add eight ounces of white or loaf sugar to each 
pint of the liquid, with the juice of a small lemon, and 
the peel cut very thin ; boil to a tolerably thick jelly, 
which may be ascertained by trying a little on a plate ; 
strain again through the bag or a piece of muslin, and 
run into moulds or pots. When cold lay a piece of tissue 
paper over, and put by in a dry place. This jelly will 
keep two or three years. 

TO MAKE AN OENAIVIENTAL PYEAMID FOR A 
. TABLE. 

Miss Beaty. 

Boil loaf sugar as for candy, and rub it over a stiff 



VALUABLE BECIPES. 249 

form, made for the purpose, of stiff paper, which must be 
•well buttered ; set it on a table, and begin at the bot- 
tom and stick on to this frame with the sugar a row of 
macaroons, kisses, or other ornamental articles, and 
continue till the whole is covered. When cold draw out 
the pasteboard form and set the pyramid in the centre 
f the table with a small bit of wax candle burning with 
it, and it looks very beautiful. 

CUSTAED JELLY. 

Make a boiled custard of one quart of fresh milk, three 
eggs, one teacup of sugar, two teaspoons of vanilla; 
dissolve a half box of gelatine in as little water as will 
cover it, and when well dissolved add the juice of one 
lemon and two glasses of sherry ; stir the custard well 
while pouring in this mixture ; strain through a sieve 
into a mould. Serve with whipped cream, flavoured 
with wine and vanilla, or with rich cream. 

SNOW JELLY. 

A package of gelatine soaked till quite soft in a cup of 
cold water, then add about a quart of boiling water ; stir 
tni quite dissolved; add juice and grated rind of three 
lomons; sugar to taste; strain through muslin, and set 
in a cold place. When quite stiJBf, beat in the whites of 
four well-beaten eggs, and then pour into moulds. It 
will make about a quart and a half. This is very suit- 
able for invalids who cannot take wine, also an exceed- 
ingly ornamental jelly. 



250 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

CHANGE MAEMALADE. 

Mrs. Midglej. 

Nine Seville oranges, tliree sweet oranges, four lemons 
cut across the grain as finely as possible ; place in a 
deep dish with four quarts of water ; let it stand thirty- 
six hours; boil two hours, (water as well); then add 
eight pounds of crushed sugar ; boil one hour longer, or 
until you think it will jelly ; the addition of a wineglassful 
of spirits when nearly boiled has the effect of causing all 
impurities to rise to the surface, and clarifies the jelly. 

APPLE JELLY. 

Mrs N. P. Inglebart. 

Take juicy apples, (Eamboes, if possible) ; take the 
stem and top off, and wash them nicely, then cut up 
into quarters and put cold water upon them, just enough 
to cover them : boil them soft, afterward strain them 
through a jelly bag ; then take two pints at a time with 
two pounds of crush-ed sugar ; boil twenty minutes, then 
do the same with the other juice ; to be economical, pare 
and core the apples ; don't strain so close, but that you 
can, by adding a little more water, use the apples for 
sauce or pies. 

CRAB APPLE JELLY AND JAM. 

Mrs. Lndlam. 

Remove stems and blossoms from the apples; let 
them scald, and pour oS the first water ; next put them 
in plenty of water and let them cook slo\^ly ; as they 



VALUABLE EECIPES. ^1 

begin to soften dip off the juice for jelly, straining it 
through flannel. One pound of juice to a pound of 
sugar for jelly. Next add more water ; let apples stew 
very soft ; strain through a sieve, which takes out cores 
and seeds ; to this pulp add brown sugar, pound for 
pound ; it needs careful cooking and stirring. 

LEMON JELLY. 

Mrs. W. Qathiie. 

One paper of gelatine; let it stand one hour in warm 
water ; then add one quart of boiling water, the juice of 
three or four lemons, and a pint and a half of sugar. 

ORANGE JELLY. 

Mrs. J. P. Hoit. 

Soak one package of gelatine in one-half pint cold 
water for one hour ; add the juice of three lemons, two 
pounds sugar and one quart boiling water ; when all are 
dissolved add one pint of orange juice ; strain carefully 
and set on ice till ready for use ; eight oranges usually 
make it. 

CUREANT JELLY. 

Mrs. J. P. Hoit. 

Jam and strain the currants ; to each pint of juice add 
one pound sugar; boil the juice fifteen minutes without 
sugar, and the same time after it is in ; strain into glasses. 

When pouring hot fruit or jelly in cans or glasses, wring 
a towel out of cold water, lay it on a table, and set the 
cold cans upon it, pounng the boiling fruit into them. 



252 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

Care shotild be taken not to set two cans on the sam6 
spot without first wetting the towel. 

GELATINE. 

Mrs. J. H. Mead. 

Take a good packet of gelatine, the juice and rinda 
of three lemons, soak for one hour in a pint of cold 
water ; then add three pints of boiling water, two pounds 
of white sugar, one pint of wine ; strain into moulds, 
and set out to cool. 

TO PEE SERVE QUINCES. 

Mrs. W. Arthurs. 

Pare, core, and quarter a peck of quinces, then weigh 
them ; put the parings, cores, and seeds into a preserv- 
ing kettle, cover them with water, and boil slowly for 
twenty minutes ; then strain them, put the water back, 
and put in the quinces, a few at a time, and simmer 
them gently until tender, say five to ten minutes ; lay 
them on a dish ; when all are done add the sugar and a 
little warm water. Let them boil for a few minutes un- 
til clear, then put in all the quinces and boil them 
without stirring until they become a clear garnet, which 
will be about one hour. Have ready two lemons sliced 
thin and seeds taken out ; put them in a few minutes 
before taking off the fire. 

CUREANT JELLY. 
Mrs. 0. Wheeler. 
Take the currants when they first ripen ; pick them 



VALUABLE BE0IPE9. 253 

from the stems and put them on the stove in a stone 
jar, bruising them with a wooden spoon ; then when 
warm, squeeze through a coarse cloth or flannel, and 
put the juice on in a new tin pan or porcelain kettle ; 
one quart of juice requires two pounds of sugar, or a 
pound to a pint ; boil fifteen minutes ; to be a nice 
colour the currants should not come in contact with 
iron spoons or tin dishes, unless new and bright ; should 
be made quickly. It never fails to jelly good if the cur- 
rants are not too ripe. The same method for jam, only 
do not strain the currants, but mash them well. Cur- 
rants should not be dead ripe for jelly or jam. 

GOOSEBEKKY JELLY. 

E. M. Walker. 

Boil six pounds of green unripe gooseberries in six 
pints of water, (they must be well boiled, but not burst 
too much) ; pour them into a basin, and let them stand 
covered with a cloth for twenty-four hours, then straia 
through a jelly bag, and to every pint of juice add one 
pound of sugar. BoU it for an hour, then skim it and 
boil for one half hour longer with a sprig of vanilla. 

TO PEE SERVE CITRON. 

Mrs. W. Arthurs. 

Pare the citrons and cut them into slices about an inch 
and a half thick, then into strips the same thickness,leav- 
ing them the full length of the fruit ; take out aU the 
seeds with a small knife, then weigh, and to each pound 
of citron put a pound of white sugar, make a syrup; to ten 



254 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

pounds put a pint of water, and simmer gently for 
twenty minutes ; then put in the citron and boil for one 
hour, or until tender ; before taking off the fire put in 
two lemons, sliced thin,^ seeds taken out, and two ounces 
of root ginger ; do not let them boil long after the lemon 
and ginger are put in ; do not stir them while boiling. 
The above is very fine if carefully attended to. 

AETIFICIAL HONEY. 

Mrs. Oliphant. 

Mix together ten pounds white sugar, two pounds 
clear bees' honey, one quart of hot water, half an ounce 
of cream tartar ; when cool flavour with two or three 
drops otto roses and sprinkle in a handful of clear yellow 
honey comb broken up. This will deceive the best 
judges, and is perfectly healthy. 

COEN STAECH JELLY. 

One quart boiling water; wet five tablespoons corn 
starch, one teacup sugar, a pinch of salt, with cold water, 
and one teaspoon lemon or vanilla extract for flavour- 
ing ; stir the mixture into the boiling water, boil five 
minutes, stir all the while ; pour into cups previously 
dipped in cold water. This quantity will fill six or seven 
cups. If wished richer, milk may be used instead of 
water. Good for invalids. 

GELATINE JELLY. 

Dissolve one ounce package of sparkling gelatine in a 
pint of cold water for one hour ; add the rind and jui(?e 



TALTTABLE BECIPES. 255 

of two or three large lemons, one and a half ponnds of 
sugar, then pour on this mixture one quart of boiling 
■water, add one pint of orange or raspberry juice, and 
pour into mould. This flavouring is very nice, and is 
to supersede the necessity of wine, which some consider 
indispensable in the same proportion. 

RHUBARB JAM. 

Mrs. T. W. Anderson. 

Cut into pieces about an inch long, put a pound of 
sugar to every pound of rhubarb, and leave till morning ; 
pour the syrup from it and boil till thickens ; then add 
the rhubarb and boil gently fifteen minutes ; put up as 
you do currant jelly in tumblers ; it will keep good a 
year. 

GOOSEBERRY JAM. 

Take what quantity you please of red rough ripe 
gooseberries, take half tlfe quantity of lump sugar, 
break them well, and boil them together for half an 
hour, or more, if necessary. Put into pots and cover 
with papers. 

LEMON PRESERVE FOR TARTS. 
Mx8. W. a. Da-fis. 

One pound of sugar, four ounces of butter, six eggs, 
leaving out the whites of two, the juice and grated rind 
of three lemons ; put into a saucepan and stir over a 
slow fire until it becomes as thick as honey. 



25S , THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

GKAPE JAM. 
Mrs. S. W. Cheever. 

Take your grapes, separate the skin from the pulp, 
keeping them in separate dishes, put the pulps in your 
preserving kettle with a teacup of water ; when thor- 
oughly heated, run them through a colander to separate 
the seeds ; then put your skins with them and weigh ; to 
each pound of fruit, put three-fourths of a pound of 
sufrar ; add merely water enough to keep from burning ; 
cook flowly three-fourths of an hour. This is a delicioua 
jam, and worth the trouble. 

BLACKBEEEY JAM. 

M. A. T. 

To each pound of fruit add three-fourths of a pound 
of sugar ; mash each separately ; then put together and 
boil from one-half to three-fourths of an hour. 

EASPBEEEY JAM. 

To five or six pounds of fine red raspberries (not too 
ripe) add an equal quantity of the finest quality of white 
sugar. Mash the whole well in a preserving kettle ; add 
about one quart of currant juice, (a little less will do), 
and boil gently until it jellies upon a cold plate ; then 
put into small jars ; cover with brandied paper, and tie a 
thick M'hite paper over them. Keep in a dark, dry, and 
cool place. 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 257 

QUINCE JAM. 

Mrs. P. B. Ayer. 

Boil your fruit in as little water as possible, until soft 
enough to break easily; pour off all the water and rub 
with a spoon until entirely smooth. To one pound of 
the quince add ten ounces of brown sugar, and boil 
twenty minutes, stirring often. 

PINE-APPLE JAM. 

Mrs. P. B. Ayer. 

Grate your pine-apple; to one pound of the apple add 
three-fourths of a pound of loaf sugar ; boil ten minutes. 

OEANGE MAEMALADE. 

Mrs. J. Young Scammon. 

One dozen Seville oranges, one dozen common 
oranges, one dozen lemons ; boil the oranges and lemons 
whole in water for five hours ; scoop out the inside, re- 
moving the seeds ; cut the peel into thin slices with a 
knife, and add to every pound of pulp and peel a pint of 
water and two pounds of sugar. Boil twenty minutes. 

OEANGE MAEMALADE. 

Mm. Wm. Bracket. 

Take seven oranges and five lemons ; boil in water 
two or three hours ; throw away the water, and open the 
oranges and lemons, taking out the seeds and preserv- 
ing ail the pulp and juice possible ; cut the rinds in 
small strips or chop them, but cutting in strips is better ; 



258 THE HOME CODE BOOS. 

weigh it all when this is done ; then put three pound a 
of sugar to two of the pulp, and boil slowly till clear. 

SIBEKIAN CKAB JELLY. 

Mrs. W. Arthurs. 

Boil a peck of crabs for two hours in as much water 
ras will cover them, then put them into a jelly bag and 
allow to drain, (do not squeeze them) ; to each pint of 
syrup, put one pound of loaf sugar, and boil for half an 
Jiour. Select the reddest crabs you can find and the 
;jelly will be a beautiful colour. 

APPLES FOE PKESENT USE. 

Mrs. Joseph Sanlter. 

Take about twenty nice snow or other good cooking 
apples, and wipe them clean, and place them in a pre- 
serving kettle with water enough to about half cover 
them ; then add two cups of sugar, half a cup of vinegar, 
and a dessertspoonful of ground cinnamon ; cover them 
down tightly, and let them simmer over a slow fire until 
the apples become soft ; use them col4. 



CANDY. 



BweetB to the Sweet." 

In order to understand the secret of candy making, it 
will be necessary to understand the action of heat upon 
sugar. The first step in this process is the reduction of 
sugar to a syrup, which is done by adding water to 
sugar in the proportion of a pint and a half of water to 
three and a half pounds of sugar. When this boils up 
in the kettle we have simple syrup. A few more min- 
utes of boiling, reduces the water which holds the sugar 
in a perfect solution. At this stage, if the syrup is al- 
lowed to cool, the candy crystallizes on the sides of the 
dish, and we have rock candy. If, instead of allowing 
it to cool at this point, we allow it to reach a higher de« 
gree of heat, we shall find, in putting a spoon into the 
s}Tup, when drawing it out a long thread of sugar 
will follow the spoon. It is to this point that confec- 
tioners bring the syrup for the greater number of can- 
dies produced. The greatest skill is required on the 
part of the operator to push the boiling sugar to this 
point without allowing it to reach the caramel stafe, 
when it becomes bitter and dark and is no longer fit to 
use as a confection. The proportion of sugar and water 
for candy making will be three and one-half pounds of 
sugar to one and one-half pints of water. To this add 
u}ie tta«iH)on of cream of tartar, which wiU prevent thQ 



260 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

tendency of the sugar to assume the granular condition. 
To test the candy, drop into cold water. When this 
becomes at once hard and brittle the vessel should be at 
once removed from the fire. Flat sticks are formed by 
pouring the candy into long flat pans, and when cooling 
crease the mass, which will readily break into sticks 
when cold. To make round stick candy, when cool 
enough to handle and while warm enough to mould, roll 
into sticks with the hands. To colour candies, take 
small portions of the candy while cooling, and colour, 
then put together in strips and twist slightly. 

LEMON CANDY. 

Put into a kettle three and one-half pounds of sugar, 
one and one-half pints of water, and one teaspoon of 
cream of tartar. Let it boil until it becomes brittle 
when dropped in cold water ; when sufficiently done take 
off the fire and pour in a shallow dish which has been 
greased with a little butter. When this has cooled so 
that it can be handled, add a teaspoon of tartaric acid 
and the same quantity of extract of lemon, and work 
them into the mass. The acid must be fine and free 
from lumps. Work this in until evenly distributed, and 
no more, as it will tend to destroy the transparency of 
the candy. This method may be used for preparing all 
other candies, as pine-apple, etc., using different 
flavours, 

CEEAM CANDIES. 

Three and one-half pounds of sugar to one and one- 



VALUABtiE RECIPES. 261 

half pints of water ; dissolve in the water before putting 
with the sugar one-quarter of an ounce of fine white 
gum arabic, and when added to the sugar put in one tea- 
spoon of cream of tartar. The candy should not be 
boiled quite to the brittle stage. The proper degree can 
be ascertained if, when a small skimmer is put in and 
taken out, when blowing through the holes of the skim- 
mer, the melted sugar is forced through in feathery 
filaments ; remove from the fire at this point and rub the 
syrup against the sides of the dish with an iron spoon. 
If it is to be a chocolate candy, add two ounces of choco- 
late finely sifted and such flavouring as you prefer, 
vaniUa, rose, or orange. If you wish to make cocoanut 
candy, add this while soft and stir until cold. 

EVERTON TOFFEE. 

Miss Wyllie. 

Take one pound of treacle, the same quantity of moist 
sugar, half a pound of butter ; put them in a saucepan 
large enough to allow of fast boiling over a clear fire ; 
put in the butter first, and rub it well over the bottom 
of the saucepan, and add the treacle and sugar, stirring 
together gently with a knife ; after it has boiled for 
about ten minutes asceriiiin if it is done by having 
ready a basin of cold water, and drop a *little of the 
mixture into it from the point of a knife ; if it is 
sufficiently done, when you take it from the water 
it will be quite crisp. Now prepare a large, shallow tin 
pan or dish rubbed all over with butter to prevent its 
adhering, and into this pour the toffee from the sauce- 
pan to get it cold, when it can be easily removec* 



262 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

CANDY. 

One pound sugar, one and a half cups water, thre6 
tablespoons rose water ; boil twenty minutes ; then pull. 

CANDY. 

Carrie A. | 

One-half pound sugar, one-half cup syrup, butter the 
size of a walnut ; add little water to the syrup, and have 
the sugar thoroughly dissolved ; to try it, drop a spoon- 
ful in a glass of ice water, if brittle, it is done. 

CANDY CAEAMELS. 

Mary H. 

One pint cream, one pound sugar, one cup butter, one- 
fourth cup chocolate, one cup of molasses. 

CHOCOLATE CAEAMELS. 

One cup of fine granulated sugar, one cup of New 
Orleans molasses, one-fourth cup of milk, a piece of 
butter the size of an egg, one cup of chocolate after it is 
cut up, if made single quantity ; if doubled, it is as well 
not to put the chocolate in till about done, and then the 
same quantity of the recipe will suffice, as it retains the 
flavour if noifc cooked as much. Boil till it will stiffen.in 
\mter ; pour into flat buttered pans to the thickness of 
half an inch. Use Baker's chocolate. 

CHOCOLATE CARAMELS.- 

Mrs. P. B. Ayer. 

Two cups of brown sugar, one cup molasses, one cup 



VALUABLE fiECIPES. 263 

chocolate grated fine, one cup boiled milk, one table- 
spoon flour ; butter the size of a large English walnut ; 
let it boil slowly and pour on flat tins to cool ; mark off 
while warm. 

CREAM CANDY. 

One pound white sugar, one wineglass vinegar, one 
tumbler water, vanilla ; boil one-half hour, and pull, if 
you choose. 

COCOANUT DROPS. 

Mrs. P. B. Ayer. 

To one grated cocoanut, add half its weight of sugar 
and the white of one egg, cut to a stiff froth ; mix thor- 
oughly and drop on buttered white paper or tin sheets. 
Bake fifteen minutes. 

KISSES. . 

E. S. P. 

One egg, one cup su^ar, one-half cup of butter, one 
half cup milk, one teaspoon cream of tartar, one-half of 
soda, flour enough to make a stiff dough ; drop on tins 
and sprinkle over with powdered sugar. Bake in a 
quick oven. 

MOLASSES CANDY. 

Mrs. Benham. 

One cup molasses, two cups of sugar, one tablespoon 
vinegar, a little butter and vanilla ; boil ten minutes, 
then cool it enough to pull. 



264 THE HOME OOOE BOOS. 

MOLASSES CANDY. 

Julia French. 

One cup molasses, one cup sugar, one tablespoon 
vinegar, piece of butter size of an egg ; boil (but do not 
stir) until it hardens when dropped in cold water ; then 
stir in a teaspoon of soda, and pour on buttered tins ; 
when cool, pull and cut in sticks. 

Or, two cups sugar, two tablespoons vinegar, boil; 
when done add a teaspoon soda, cool and pull, or cut in 
squares without pulling; do not stir while it is boiling. 

BUTTEE SCOTCH CANDY. 

Four cups brown sugar, two of butter, vinegar to taste, 
two tablespoons water, and a little soda ; boil half an 
hour; drop a httle in hot water, and if crisp, it is done. 

BUTTEE SCOTCH. 

Fanny Waggoner. 

Three tablespoons of molasses, two of sugar, two of 
water, one of butter ; add a pinch of soda before taking 
up. 

SUGAE TOFFEE. 

Mrs. Joseph B. Leake. 

Three pounds best brown sugar, one pound butter, 
enough water to moisten the sugar; boil^ until crisp 
when dropped into cold water, then pour into pans, or 
upon platters, as thin as possible. It usually requires 
to boil fast, without stirring, three-quarters of an hour. 



BREAD AND YEAST. 



•• There is scent of Syrian myrrh. 
There ia incense, there is spice, 
There are delicate cakes and loavei. 
Cakes of meal and polypi." 

— QucuN Oi>a 
" Bat I ate nanght 
1U\ I that loTely child of Geres saw, 
A large sweet roand and yellow cake ; how then 
Conld I from snch a dish, my friends, abstain?" 

GENEKAL DIRECTIONS FOR MAKING BREAD. 

In the composition of good bread, there are three im- 
portant requisites : Good flour, good yeast and strength 
to knead it well. Flour should be white and dry, crumb- 
ling easily again after it is pressed in the hand. 

A very good method of ascertaining the quality of 
yeast will be to add a little flour to a very small quan- 
tity, setting it in a warm place. If in the course of ten 
or fifteen minutes it rises, it will do to use. 

When you make bread, first set the sponge with warm 
milk or water, keeping it in a waim place until quite 
light. Then mould this sponge, by adding flour into 
one large loaf, kneading it well. Set this to rise again, 
and then when sufficiently light mould it into smaller 
loaves, let it rise again, then bake. Care should be 
taken not to get the dough too stifl" with flour ; it should 
be as soft as it can be to knead well. To make bread 



266 THE HOMB COOK BOOK. 

or biscuits a nice colour, wet the dough over top with 
water just before putting into the oven. Flour should 
always be sifted. 

YEAST. 

Mrs. E. S. Ghesebrongh. 

Put two tablespoons of hops in a muslin bag and boil 
them in three quarts of water for a few minutes ; have 
ready a quart of hot mashed potatoes, put in one cup of 
flour, one tablespoon of sugar, one of salt ; pour over 
the mixture the boiling hop water, strain through a col- 
ander, put a pint or less of fresh baker's yeast, or two 
cakes of yeast in while it is warm, and set it in a warm 
place to rise. This yeast will keep three or four weeks, 
if set in a cool place. In making it from time to time, 
use a bowl of the same to raise the fresh with. 

YEAST. 

Mrs. Mary Ludlam. 

Six good potatoes grated raw, a little hop tea, one 
quart of boiling water, three-fourths cup of brown sugar, 
one-half teaspoon salt; when cool, add yeast to rise; 
keep covered and in a cool place. 

BEST BAKING POWDER. 

Mrs. Oliphant. 

Tartaric acid, four parts, by weight ; bicarbonate 
Boda, five parts, by weight ; baked flour, nine parts, by 
weight. The flour should be absolutely dry. The tar- 
taric acid and the soda must also be dry, and pulverized 



TALXTABLE BECIPES. 2G7 

as fine as possible separately in a clean porcelain mor- 
iar. When thus prepared sift all together repeatedly 
till perfectly mixed ; then put into well-corked bottles, 
and use two teaspoonsful to each pint of flour. 

BOSTON BEOWN BEEAD. 

Mrs. Oliphant. 

To make one loaf : — Eye meal unsifted, half a pint ; 
Indian meal sifted, one pint ; sour milk, one pint ; mo- 
lasses, half a gill. Add a teaspoonful of salt, one tea- 
spoonful of soda dissolved in a little hot water ; stir 
well, put in a greased pan, let it rise one hour, and 
steam four hours. 

SALT EISING BEEAD. 

Mrs. Upham, 

At supper time take one-fourth teaspoonful of salt, 
same of soda, and one teaspoonful of white sugar ; over 
this pour one teacupful of boiling water, and add one 
cupful of cold water; stir in three desertspoonsful of 
Indian meal and flour enough to make a thick batter, 
and cover tightly. In cold weather place it where it 
will be warm all night. In the morning place your 
bowl in a dish of water as hot as you can hold your finger 
in. Stir it often and thoroughly for an hour. Sift in a 
ten quart pan two-thirds full of flour, into it stir enough 
warm water, one tablespoonful of salt, and one-half tea- 
spoonful soda, to make a thin batter; then stir your 
yeast in thoroughly and place m a warm place, where 
no draughts of cold air will reach it. Let it rise to the 
top of pan 



263 ITES Bomb cook boos. 

YEAST. 

Mrs. W. C. Harris. 

Boil in separate pans one-half cup of hops and \ wo 
potatoes ; strain both liquids boiling hot on a large cup 
of flour, one spoon of salt, half cup of sugar, and a feup 
of yeast. Pour it into a jug and set it in a cool place. 

GOOD YEAST. 

» 

Mrs. Packard. 

Grate six good sized potatoes (raw) ; have ready a 
gallon of water in which has been well boiled three hand- 
fuls of hops ; strain through a cloth or sieve, while boil- 
ing hot, over the potatoes, stirring until well cooked, or 
the mixture thickens like starch; add one teacup of 
sugar, one-half cup of salt ; when sufficiently cool, one 
cup of good yeast. Let it stand until a thick foam rises 
upon the top. Care must be taken not to bottle too 
soon, or the bottles may burst. Use one coffee cup of 
yeast to six loaves of bread. If kept in a cool place this 
yeast will last a long time, and housekeepers need not 
fear having 80ur bread. 

YEAST FOE BBEAD. 

Miss L. Stagman. 

Grate ten or twelye good sized raw potatoes in a col- 
ander and let the water drip off them, and then add 
three parts of a saucerful of flour to the potatoes, and 
three parts of a cup of sugar ; then boil a good pinch of 
hops twenty minutes and throw over all ; when lake- 



VALUABLE EECIPES. 269 

warm add a cup of yeast, and when it rises add a table- 
Bpoonful of salt. This will keep three weeks. 



YEAST THAT WILL NOT SOUB. 

Mrs. J. B. Adams. 

Boil two ounces of hops in two quarts of water; put 
one cup of brown sugar in a jar ; boil and strain the 
hops and pour into the jar. Add one cup of flour stirred 
smooth ; let it stand in a warm kitchen till it ferments. 
Add six potatoes boiled and mashed, and one cup of salt. 

YEAST. 

Mrs. Anna Marble. 

Two quarts of wheat bran, one of Lidian bran, two 
gallons of boiling water ; simmer an hour or so ; put in 
a handful of hops. As soon as the water boils, add one 
teacup of molasses and one tablespoon of ground ginger. 
"When cold put in a teacup of yeast and cork tightly. 
Keep cool. 

BBEAD. 

Mrs. E. S. Chesebrongh. 

Take four quarts of sifted flour and a teacup of yeast, 
a pinch of salt, and wet with warm milk and water stiff 
enough to knead. Work it on the board until it re- 
quires no more flour. If made at night the bread will 
be Ught enough to work over and put in pans early in 



270 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

the morning. Tins quantity will make two large loaves. 
One-third ol the lump may be taken for rolls, which can 
be made by working in butter the size of an egg, and 
setting aside to rise again: when light the second time 
make out in oblong shapes ; cover them with a cloth and 
let them rise again. As soon as they break apart bake 
in a quick oven. They will not fail to be nice if they are 
baked as soon as they seam. This is the great secret of 
white, flaky rolls. Two or three potatoes will improve 
the bread. Good housekeepers always have flour sifted 
in readiness for use, and never use it in any other way. 

BEEAD. 
M. E. B. Ljnde. 

The sponge is made over night in the centre of a pan 
of flour, with milk and warm water and a cup of home- 
made hop and potato yeast to about four loaves. The 
yeast is put in when about half the flour and water are 
mixed, and then the remainder of the water is added 
and the sponge beaten with a wooden spoon for fifteen 
minutes and left to rise over night in a moderately warm 
place. In the morning, the bread-dough mixed and 
kneaded for half an hour, adding flour to make a stifi 
dough, and left to rise in a mass. It is then made into 
small loaves, being kneaded with as little flour as 
possible, and put in pans to rise the second time, all the 
while kept moderately warm, and when light bake in a 
moderately hot oven. The important part of said recipe 
is the beating of the sponge fifteen minutes, as given. 



Valuable recipes. 2tl 

EXCELLENT BREAD. 

Mrs. (ieo. W. PitMn. 

Four potatoes mashed fine, four teaspoons of salt, two 
quarts of lukewarm milk, one-half cake compressed yeast 
dissolved in one-half cup of warm water, flour enough to 
make a pliable dough; mould with hands well greased 
with lard ; place in pans, and when sufElciently Hght, it 
is ready for baking. 

YEAST. 

Mrs. John A. Framr. 

Monday — ^boil two ounces of hops in four quarts of 
water.for half an hour, strain it, and let it stand till cold, 
then put in a smaU handful of salt and haK a pound of 
sugar, beat up one pound of flour, with some of the 
liquor, mix all together. On Wednesday boil and mash 
three pounds of potatoes and add to it, let it stand till 
Thursday, then bottle and it is ready for use ; shake well 
before using. To be kept warm while making, and in a 
cool place after. 

SUPEEIOR BREAD. 

Mrs. D. 0. Norton. 

Scald one quart of sour milk ; when cool enough, set 
your sponge with the whey ; take about three quarts of 
flour, make a hole in the centre, put in the whey about 
a good teaspoon of salt, one teacup of good hop yeast 
(home made is best), and stir quite stiff with a spoon ; 
wrap in a thick cloth so as to keep as warm as possible 



272 THE HOME COOK BOO^ 

in cold weather, in summer it is not neeoftAry. In the 
morning knead well, adding flour until stiff enough, and 
keep warm until light ; then set it in pans to rise ; no 
saleratus is needed. Bread made in this way will never 
fail to be good if good flour and yeast ar« used* 

WHEAT BREAD, 

Mrs. D. W. Thatcher: 

Take a pan of flour, and put in a smaR handful of sal^ 
and a bowl of soft yeast and one pint of lukewarm milk, 
mix stiff with flour and let it rise. Then knead it into 
pans, and let it rise, and if wanted very white, knead i^ 
down two or three times ; this makes it whiter, but lose"* 
its sweet taste ; bake forty-five minuteg, 

RICE BBEAD. 

Mrs. E. S. Cihesebrong^ 

Boil a teacup of rice quite soft ; while hi>,t, add I utter 
the size of an egg, one and a half pints of milk, rathe? 
more than one^-half pint of bolted com meal, two table* 
spoons of flour, two eggs and a little Pali. Bake just 
one hour. Tho bread should be about two inches thick, 

SPLENDID BEOWN BREAD. 

One quart sour milk, half cup of molf ssfijs, one cup of 
lard, one tablespoon even of soda, one tablespoon salt, 
Graham flour enough to make a stiff ba';ter ; put it in a 
two quart tin pail and cover with the lid; suspend the 
pail by a stick through the handle in 6 pot of boiling; 



VALUABLE EEC3IPES. 273 

water and keep boiling three hours, take it off and after 
removing the lid bake in the same pail in a slow oven. 

STEAMED BEOWN BEEAD. 

Mrs. C. G. Smith. 

One pint of sweet milk, four tablespoons of molasses, 
one cup of Indian meal, two cups of rye or Graham flour, 
one teaspoon of salt, one of saleratus ; mix with a spoon, 
and steam three hours, and bake half an hour or more. 

BOSTON BEOWN BEEAD. 

Mrs. F. E. Stearns. 

One and one-half cups of Graham flour, two cups of 
corn meal, one-half cup of molasses, one pint of sweet 
milk, and one-half a teaspoon of soda ; steam three 
hours. 

BEOWN BEEAD TOAST. 

Cut the bread in slices and toast. Put it in the dish 
for the table, take a bowl of thick cream, add a little 
salt, then pour over the toast ; put it in the oven until 
it heats through. 

TEAVELLEE'S BEEAD. 

Take Graham flour (unsifted) ; and currants, figs, 
dates or raisins may be used by chopping them; stir 
quite stiffly with the coldest water as briskly as possible, 
so as to incorporate air with it ; then knead in all the 
itubolted wheat flour you can ; cut in cakes or rolls one- 
half inch thick, and bake in a quick oven. 



274 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

STEAMED COEN BREAD. 

Mrs. Jane Conger. 

Take three cups oi meal, and one of flour, scald two 
cups of the meal with boiling water, add the other cup 
of meal and flour, two cups ol sour milk, one cup 
molasses, one teaspoon ol soda, a little salt. Steam 
three hours. 

OLD FASHIONED GRAHAM BREAD. 

Mrs. Pulsiier. 

One tea cup of good yeast, one quart of warm water, 
one teaspoon of salt, two cups sugar, or less, one small 
teaspoon soda, stir in enough white winter wheat Graham 
flour to make it stifl enough to drop ofi the spoon readily, 
grease your bread pans, put in, and set to rise, let it get 
quite light, then bake in a moderate oven for three- 
quarters of an hour. 

BROWN BREAD. 

Mrs. Wm. Blair. 

Take part of the sponge that has been prepared for 
your white bread, warm water can be added, mix it with 
Graham flour (not too stiff). 

For Brown Biscuit. — Take this Graham dough, as 
prepared for bread, working in a little butter. Butter 
the size of an egg is sufficient for two dozen biscuits. 

CORN BREAD. 

Mrs. Juliet L. Strayer. 

One-half pint of buttermilk, one-haK pint of .sweet 
milk ; sweeten the sour milk with one-half teaspoon of 



VALUABLE HECIPES. 275 

soda ; beat two eggs, whites and yolks together ; pour the 
milk into the eggs, then thicken with about nine table- 
spoons of sifted com meal. Put the pan on the stove 
with a piece of lard the size of an egg ; when melted 
pour it in the batter ; this lard by stirring it will grease 
the pan to bake in ; add a teaspoon of salt. 



COEN BREAD. 

Mrs. Wm. H. Low. 

Two tablespoons of sugar, one tablespoon butter, two 
eggs ; stir all together, add one cup of sweet milk, three 
teaspoons of baking powder, and three-fourths of a cup 
corn meal ; flour to make it quite stiff. 

INDIAN BREAD. 

Mrs. A. T. HaU. 

One pint of meal, one pint of flour, one pint of milk, 
one teacup of molasses, one teaspoon of soda, one-half 
of cream tartar ; steam two hours and bake half an hour. 

GRAHAM BREAD. 

Mrs. J. B. Hobbs. 

For one loaf, take two cups of white bread sponge, to 
which add two tablespoons of brown sugar, and Graham 
flour to make a stiff batter ; let it rise, after which add 
Graham flour sufficient to knead, but not very stiff; then 
put in the pan to rise and bake. 



^76 THE HOltE tiOOE BOOK. 

GEAHAM BEEAD. 

Mrs, H. P. Stowell. 

Set sponge of fine flour, same as for wheat bread; 
(vhen sufficiently raised, instead of mixing with fine flour, 
cuix with Graham to the usual consistency ; mould with 
fine flour a little, raise once, then it is ready for the 
Dven. Sweeten with syrup or sugar, if desired, though 
I think it better without either. 

EOLLS. 

Mrs. H. F. Waite; 

To the quantity of light bread dough that you would 
take for twelve persons, add the white of one egg well 
beaten, two tablespoons of white sugar, and two table- 
spoons of butter ; work these thoroughly together ; roll 
out about half an inch thick ; cut the size desired, and 
spread one with melted butter and lay another upon the 
top of it. Bake delicately, when they have risen. 

FEENCH EOLLS. 

Mrs. Thos. Orton. 

Take one-half cup of yeast, rub a smaU one-half cup 
of butter in the flour (you will have to guess the 
quantity), then add the yeast, and water enough to wet; 
mix as for soda biscuit. Let it rise till morning. Eoll 
in thin sheets, and cut into squares, spread a very little 
butter on each, and sprinkle a Httle flour on to roll up. 
Put in the pan when light, bake twenty minutes. Nice. 



VALUABLE EECIPBS. 277 

FEENGH EOLLS. 

Etta C. Springer. 

One quart flour, add two eggs, one-half pint milk, 
tablespoon of yeast, knead it well ; rise till morning. 
Work in one ounce of butter and mould in small rolls ; 
bake immediately. 

BEOWN EOLLS. 

Mrg. Maiancthon Starr. 

One quart Graham flour, milk enough to make a stiff 
batter, one-third cut^ of yeast, and mix over night ; in 
the morning add twc eggs, one large tablespoon of sugar, 
one-fourth teaspoon of soda, piece of butter half the size 
of an egg, and a little salt ; put in cups, and let stand 
twenty minutes beiore baking. 

lEENCH BISCUITS. 

Mrs. Lind. 

Two cups of butter, two cups of sugar, one egg, (or the 
whites of two), haK a cup of sour milk, half a teaspoon 
of soda, flour to roll ; sprinkle with sugar. 

TEA BISCUITS. 

Mrs. NororosB. 

One cup of hot water, two of milk, three tablespoons 
of yeast; mix thoroughly; after it is risen, take two- 
thirds of a cup of butter and a little sugar and mould 
it ; then let it rise, and mould it into small cakes. 



278 THE HOME COOZ BOOK. 

TO MAKE STALE BEE AD OR CAKE FRESH. 

Mrs. M. G. Adams. 

Plunge the loaf one instant in cold water ; lay it upon 
a tin in the oven ten or fifteen minutes. Cake and rolls 
may be thus made almost as nice as if just baked, but 
must be eaten immediately. 

GRAHAM BISCUIT)? 

Mrs. Brodie. 

One quart of Graham flour, three and one-half heap- 
ing teaspoons of baking powder, one teaspoon of salt, 
one of butter. Make into soft dough with milk. 

BYE BISCUIT. 
Mrs. Lamkin. 

Two cups rye meal, one and a half cups flour, one« 
third cup molasses, one egg, a little salt, two cups sour 
milk, two even teaspoons saleratus. 

BUNS. 

Two coffee-cups bread dough, two eggs, one cup 
sugar, spices, a few currants. Mould like rusk and let 
them rise before baking. 

BUNS. 

M. 

Take one large coffee-cup of warm milk, one-quarter 
cake of yeast and salt ; make sponge ; let rise ; when 



YILUABLB EECIPBS. 279 

light work into a dough, adding one-half teacup of sugar, 
one egg, butter twice the size of an egg ; let rise ; roll into 
a sheet ; butter it ; cut into strips three inches wide and six 
inches long ; fold, not quite in the middle ; let rise again 
and bake ; when in a dough, if it rises before you are 
ready, push it down. Excellent. 

EUSKS. 
Mrs. P. B. Ayer. 

To one tumbler of warm milk add a half gill of yeast, 
three eggs and a coffeecup of sugar beaten together, two 
ounces of butter rubbed into flour, of which use only 
enough to enable you to mould it ; let it rise over night ; 
when very light, roll and put on tins to raise again, after 
which bake in a quick oven twenty minutes. 

EUSKS. 

Milk enough with one-half cup of yeast to make a pint ; 

make a sponge and rise ; then add one an^ a half cups 

•of white sugar, three eggs, one-haK cup of butter ; spice 

to your taste ; mould, then put in pan to rise. When 

baked, cover the tops with sugar dissolved in milk. 

SODA BISCUITS. 

M. 

To each quart of flour add one tablespoon of shorten- 
ing, one-half teaspoon of salt, and three and a half heap- 
ing teaspoons of Price's Cream Baking Powder; mix 
baking powder thoroughly through the flour, then add 
other ingredients. Do not knead, and bake quick. To 



TEE HOME COOK BOOS 

use cream tartar and soda, take the same proportions 
without the baking powder, using instead two heaping 
teaspoons cream tartar and one of soda. If good they 
will bake in five minutes. 

CKEAM BISCUITS. 

Mrs. A. M. Gibbs. 

Three heaping tablespoons of sour cream; put in a 
bowl or vessel containing a quart and fill two-thirds full 
of sweet milk, two teaspoons cream tartar, one teaspoon 
of soda, a little salt ; 'pour the cream in the flour, mix 
soft and bake in a quick oven. 

STEAWBERRY SHOETCAKE. 

Make good biscuit crust; bake in two tins of same 
shape and size ; mix berries with plenty of sugar ; open 
the shortcake, butter well and place berries in layers, 
alternated with the crust ; have the top layer of berries 
and over aU put charlotte russe or whipped cream. 

OEANGB SflORTCAKE. 

M. 

Make a nice shortcake; spread in layers of sliced 
oranges with sugar and a little cream. To be eaten with 
sweetened cream. 

APPLE SHOETCAKE. 

M. 

Season apple sauce with butter, sugar, etc. ; make a 
nice shortcake, open and butter it and put the apple 
sauce in layers. Serve with sweetened cream. 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 281 

SALLY LUNN. 

Mrs. J. H. Brown. 

One quart of warm milk, one-half cup of butter, one 
of sugar, five eggs and one cup of yeast ; flour enough 
for stiff batter. Bake one hour. 

. CREAM CAKES. 

Six eggs, beaten separately, a half pint of sour cream, 
one pint of sweet milk, one and one-half teaspoons of 
baking powder, flour enough to make a thin batter ; bake 
in cups. 

BEEAKPAST CAKES, 

Mrs. Eice. 

One cup milk, one pint flour, three eggs, piece butter 
size of an egg, two teaspoons cream tartar, one teaspoon 
soda, one tablespoon butter. 

TEA CAKES. 

Mrs. E. S. Cheaebrongh. 

One quart of sifted flour, one pint sweet milk, butter 
size of egg, two eggs, two teaspoons sugar, one oi soda, 
two of cream tartar ; bake in small patty-pans. 

WHEAT GEMS. 

Mrs. W. H. Ovington. 

One pink milk, two eggs, flour enough to make a batter 
not very stiff, two large spoons melted butter, yeast to 
raise them, a little- soda and salfc. Bake in gem irons. 



282 THE HOME OOOE BOOK. 

GRAHAM GEMS. 

Mrs. E. R. Harmon. 

One quart of sweet milk, one cup syrup, one teaspoon 
soda, two teaspoons cream tartar, little salt ; mix cream 
tartar in Graham flour, soda in milk, and make it as 
stiff with the flour as will make it drop easily from the 
spoon into muffin rings. 

POP OVERS. 

Mrs. Andrews. 

One cup milk, one cup flour, one egg, beaten sepa- 
rately. Bake in cups, a tablespoon to each cup. 

POP OVERS. 

S. S. Pierce. 

One cup flour, one cup milk, one egg, piece butter 
size of a walnut, a little salt ; to be baked in scallops in 
a very quick oven. This rule makes twelve. 

' POP OVERS. 

Mrs. King. 

Three cups of milk, three cups flour, three eggs, a 
little salt, one tablespoon melted butter put in the last 
thing ; two tablespoons to a puff. 

PUFFS. 
Mrs. Wren, 

Two eggs beaten separately, two cups milk, two cupa 
of flour, butter the size of a walnut ; drop into hot irona 
and bake quickly. 



VALUABLE REClPBSi ^83 

GRAHAM PUFFS. 

Mrs. 0. S. Wheelock. 

One pint of Graham flour, one egg, teaspoon salt, one 
tablespoons baking powder; wet with milk or water. 

FEITTERS. 

Mrs. Brown. 

One pint-sweet milk, four eggs, one quart flour and 
three teaspoons baking powder sifted together. Serve 
warm with maple syrup. 

APPLE FEITTERS. 

M. 

One teacup of sweet milk, one tablespoon of sweet 
light dough dissolved in milk, three eggs beaten sepa^ 
rately, one teaspoon of salt, one and one-half teacups of 
flour, one tablespoon of sugar, and the grated peel of a 
lemon, peeled apples sliced without the core ; drop into 
hot lard with a piece ol apple in each one ; sprinkle 
with powdered or spiced sugar. Let them stand after 
making and they will be lighter. Good. 

MUFFINS. 

Mrs. W. H. Low. 

One tablespoon of butter, two tablespoons sugar, two 
eggs — stir all together ; add one cup of sweet milk, three 
teaspoons of baking powder, flour to make a stiff batter. 
Bake twenty minutes in a quick oven. 



284 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

MUFFINS. 

Beat four eggs into a full tablespoon of lard, mix into 
them one and one-half pints sour milk, effervescing with 
a teaspoon of soda ; add enough flour to make the con- 
sistency of pound cake. Bake in heated rings. 

EYE MUFFINS. 

Mrs. Bartlett. 

Two cups of rye, one of flour, one of sugar, one egg, 
one teaspoon of soda, and a little salt ; mix quite stifi 
with sour milk. 

INDIAN MEAL MUFFINS. 

Two cups of Indian meal scalded with as little watei 
as possible, one coffeecup of flour, one teacup of sweet 
milk, one tablespoon of shortening, one-half cup of 
brown sugar, a small cup of yeast ; mixed over night. 

WAFFLES. 

Yolks of three eggs, one quart milk, half cup melted 
butter, one heaping teaspoon baking powder. After- 
wards add the whites of the eggs and flour enough to 
make a thin batter. 

WAFFLES. 

H. 

One pint sour milk, three tablespoons melted butter. 



VALUABLE EECIPES. 285 

three eggs, beaten separately, one teaspoon soda, a little 
salt, flour enough to make a thick batter. 

RICE CEOQUETTES. 

0. T. C. 

Boil one cup of rice in one quart of milk or water, 
till tender ; while warm add a piece of butter the size 
of an egg, two eggs ; make into rolls, dip them in 
crumbs and fry them in lard Or butter. 

EICE CEOQUETTES. 

One teacup rice, one pint milk, one pint water, a lit- 
tle salt ; butter a tin, put in the mixture and swell on 
the stove, where it will not quite simmer. When dry, 
add two eggs, beaten light, with two tablespoons of su- 
gar and one of butter. Have ready cracker crumbs 
spread on a board thickly. Make a roll of the rice in 
the crumbs ; drop in hot lard and brown. 

GOOD BEEAKFAST CAKES. 

Mrs. J. H. Brown. 

Three eggs well beaten, two and a half teacups of 
flour, one pint of sweet milk, a little salt. Make a bat- 
ter of these, put in cups or rings and bake in a quick 
oven. 

BANNOCKS. 

M. 

One pint com meal, pour on it boiling water to thor- 
pughly wet it. Let it stand a few minutes ; add salt 



286 THE HOME OOOE BOOS. 

and one egg and a little sweet cream, or a tablespoon 
melted butter. Make into balls and fry in hot lard. 



ENGLISH PANCAKES. 

Mr. Joseph Robinson. 

Make a batter of two teacups of flour, four eggs, and 
one quart of milk. Add, as a great improvement, one 
tablespoonful of brandy with a little nutmeg scraped in. 
Make the size of frying pan. Sprinkle a little granu- 
lated sugar over the pancake, roll it up, and send to the 
table hot. 

WAFFLES. 

Mrs. S. McMaster. 

One quart of sweet or sour milk, four eggs, two-thirds 
of a cup of butter, half a teaspoonful of salt, three tea- 
spoons of baking powder ; flour enough to make a nice 
batter. If you use sour milk leave out the baking pow- 
der and use two teaspoons soda. Splendid. 

MUFFINS, FOE BEEAKFAST, 

Mrs. S. McM. 

Three eggs, one cup milk, one tablespoon of good 
butter melted, one tablespoon sugar, a little salt, two 
heaping teaspoons good baking powder, flour enough 
to make a batter ; bake in muffin rings ; when almost 
done moisten over the top with a feather dipped in 
sweetened milk- 



y£X<<TA£LB BECIFES. 287 

TEA BESCUITS. 

Mrs. Irthors. 

One quart flour, four teas jyjonsful baking powder, about 
the size of an egg of butter, one tablespooniul of brown 
sugar, a teaspoonful of salt., and half cup of currants ; 
grate in a little i^tmeg ; ba'^ie twenty minutes in a quick 
oven. 

MBS. CUBTIB' MUFFINS. 

Ifrs. (Jpham. 

One quart flour, two and cme-half teaspoonsful baking 
powder. Mix all dry in floitr. Add cold water enough 
to make a stif batter, and tfiena tablespoonfulof melted 
lard. 

MUFIfmS. 

Mrs. J. D. OdelL 

One quart of milk, four oggs, one tablespoon sugar, 
two tablespoons of butter, one teaspoon salt, two tea- 
spoons baking pov/der, two tablespoons yeast ; flour to 
make a stiff battier j bake ir rings when light. 

BEEAT- CAKE. 

Hn. J. I>. OdeU. 

Two cups dough, one and one-half cups sugar, one- 
half cup butter, one cup raisins, one cup currants, one 
teaspoon soda, two eggs, one teaspoon each of cinna- 
mon, cloves, and ailipat^. 



288 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

GEMS. 

Mrs. Monshaw. 

One piece butter size of a walnut, three teaspoons 
sugar, three eggs, one-half cup sweet milk, flour enough 
to make a nice thick batter ; have your gem-pans burn- 
ing hot ; bake in a very hot oven. 

POET HOPE BISCUITS 

Mrs. Crawford. 

Two eggs, two cups sugar, one of butter, one-half cup 
of milk, one teaspoonful of cream tartar, one teaspoonful 
of carbonate soda, flour sufficient to roll very thin; 
flavour with nutmeg. 

COFFEE CAKE. 

Mrs. GarsoiL. 

One cup of molasses, one cup of brown sugar, one cold 
coffee, four cups sifted flour, half cup of butter, small 
teaspoon of allspice, two teaspoons of baking powder. 

STEAMED BEOWN BEEAD, 

Mrs. Carson. 

Three cups of yellow corn meal, one cup of flour, two 
cups of sweet milk, one cup of sour milk, half cup of 
molasses, one teaspoon of soda; dissolve soda in hot 
water, pour half in the sour milk and half in molasses ; 
steam three hours and bake half an hour in a quick 
oven ; just brown the top. 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 289 

SALLY LUNN FOR BEEAKFAST. 

Mrs. Carson. 

Four teacups of flonr, two tablespoons of sugar, one 
of lard, four eggs, four teaspoonsful of baking powder 
ase half milk and half water to a thin batter, and bake 
.a a quick 'oTen. 

WAFFLES. 
Mrs. Carson. 

One quart of milk, four eggs, two-thirds cup of butter, 
half teaspoon of salt, three teaspoons of baking powder ; 
flour enough for a batter, and bake in waffle irons and 
eat hot. 

COEN BREAKFAST CAKES. 

Mrs. Parmelee. 

One-half cup of sweet milk, two cups of flour, one 
com meal, two eggs, butter size of an egg, tablespoon 
of baking powder mixed with flour ; bake in small gem 
tins and cook quarter of an hour in a quick oven. 

MUFFINS. 
Mrs. Spense. 

One quart of flour ; mix five teaspoonsful of Cook's 
Friend in the flour, a piece of butter the size of two eggs, 
five teaspoons of sugar, and as much milk as will make 
a stiff batter. Bake twenty minutes in rings. 



290 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

GEAHAM CAKES. 

Mrs. Spence. 

One pint Graham flour, one pint white flour, one 
tablespoonful of butter or shortening, two tablespoons- 
ful of molasses, two teaspoonsful of cream tartar, one 
teaspoonful of soda ; sift cream tartar and soda in with 
the white flour ; do not sift the Graham flour ; rub well 
together ; then rub your shortening in thoroughly ; wet 
with milk or water not too stiff ; roll out and cut in 
cakes ; bake in a quiet oven. Baking powder may be 
used instead of cream of tartar and soda. 

BUNS. 

Miss Miller. 

Set in the evening, a pint of milk, butter the size of 
an egg, three tablespoons of yeast, and flour enough to 
make a thick batter. Warm the milk and butter to- 
gether ; add the yeast and flour. In the morning add 
two eggs, four tablespoons of sugar, and enough flour 
to roll in the hand, not on the board. After mixing let 
it stand till quite light ; then make into buns, and let 
them stand four hours in the pans before baking. Bake 
about a quarter of an hour. 

SALLY LUNN. 

Mrs. Carson. 

Four teacups flour, two tablespoons sugar, one table- 
spoon of lard, four eggs, four tablespoons of baking 
powder ; mix with half milk and water to a thin batter; 
bake in a quick oven, 



VALUABLE BECIPES. 291 

GEMS FOE BREAKFAST. 

Mrs. Carson. 

One and a half cups of sweet milk, two cups of flour, 
one cup of corn meal, two eggs, butter the size of an 
egg, one tablespoon of baking powder mixed dry in the 
flour ; bake in small tins, and cook quarter of an hour 
in a quick oyeu. 

. JOHNNIE CAKE. 

Mrs. H. Baird. 

One pint of com meal, one teacup of flour, two egg^, 
one pint of sweet milk, one tablespoon of molasses, one 
tablespoon of melted butter, a little salt, one teaspoon 
ol soda, one teaspoon of cream of tartar ; bake in square 
tins. 

GRIDDLE CAKES. 

Mrs. Orson Smith. 

Two quarts warm water, one teaspoon salt, one cup 
flour, one cup com meal, one-half teacup yeast, two 
eggs well beaten and added the last ; raise oyer night. 

CORN BREAKFAST CAKES. 

Mrs. W. A. Carson. 

One and one-half cups sweet milk, two of flour, one 
of corn meal, two eggs beaten light, butter size of an 
egg, tablespoon of Inking powder mixed in flour ; bake 
in gem pans, and have them hot before putting in the 
mixture ; cook quarter of an hour in a quick oven. 



292 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

SPLENDID COKN CAKE. * 
Mn. W. A. Carson. 

One pint of com meal scalded with hot water ; make aa 
thin as mush, let it stand until quite cool ; then add one 
teaspoon of salt, one tablespoon of melted butter, three 
eggs beaten light ; make about as thick as pound cake, 
and bake one hour in a slow oven. 

JOHNNIE CAKE. • 

Edith. 

Scald the meal at night ; let it stand where it will 
keep slightly warm until morning ; then, for any ordin- 
ary four quart panful, add sufficient sour milk to render 
the right consistency — generally a large teacupful is 
enough ; saleratus, one tablespoonful ; salt, at time of 
scalding the meal ; if the meal is very fine, do not use 
boiling water. 

QUICK BUCKWHEAT CAKES. 

One quart of buckwheat flour, one-half a teacup of 
corn meal or wheat flour, a little salt, and two table- 
spoons of syrup. Wet these with cold or warm water 
to a thin batter, and add, lastly, four good tablespoons 
of baking powder. 

BUCKWHEAT CAKES. 

Lake Forest. 

One quart buckwheat flour, four tablespoons yeast, 
one tablespoon salt, one handful Indian meal, two 



Valuable recipes. 293 

tablespoons molasses, not syrup. Warm water enough 
to make a thin batter ; beat very well and set in a warm 
place. If the batter is the least sour in the morning, 
add a little soda. 

OATMEAL GEIDDLE CAKES. 

Mrs. J. M. WetherelL 

One cup oatmeal, one cup flour, one teaspoon sugar, 
one teaspoon baking powder, one-half teaspoon salt ; 
sift the baking powder in with the flour ; add cold water 
to make a batter of the consistency of buckwheat cakes; 
beat very well together and bake immediately. This 
receipt is sufficient for a family of three. 

MUSH. 

Indian or oatmeal mush is best made in the following 
manner : Put fresh water in a kettle over the fire to 
boU, and put in some salt ; when the water boils, stir in 
handful by handful com or oatmeal until thick enough 
for use. In order to have excellent mush, the meal 
should be allowed to cook well, and long as possible 
while thin, and before the final handful is added. When 
desired to be fried for breakfast, turn into an earthen 
dish and set away to cool. Then cut in slices when you 
wish to fry ; dip each piece in beaten eggs and fry on a 
hot griddle. 

OATMEAL GEUEL. 

Take two tablespoons of oatmeal, pour on it a pint of 
cold water ; let it stand half a day, then pour it through 



294 THE HOME OOOE BOOS. 

a sieve and boil well one-quarter of an hour, stirring all 
the time ; season according to taste. The coarse meal 
to be rejected. Good for invalids or children. 



WEIGHTS AND MEASURES. 

Ten eggs are equal to one pound. 

One pound of brown sugar, one pound of white sugar, 
powdered or loaf sugar broken, is equal to one quart. 

One pound of butter, when soft, is equal to one quart. 

One pound and two ounces Indian meal is equal to 
one quart. • 

One pound and two ounces of wheat flour is equal to 
one quart. 

Four large tablespoons are equal to one-half gill. 

Eight large tablespoons are equal to one gill. 

Sixteen large tablespoons are equal to one-half pint. 

A common sized wine glass holds half a gill. 

A common sized tumbler holds half a pint. 

Four ordinary teacups of liquid are equal to one quaiL 



CAKES. 



Bat then mj fare was all so light and delicate ; 
The Fruit, the Cakes, the Meats so dainty frail, 
They would not hear a bite — no, not a munch — 
But melted away like ice. 

— Hood. 

SUGGESTIONS. 

In making Cake, it is very desirable that the materials 
be of the finest quality. Sweet, fresh butter, eggs and 
good flour are the first essentials. The process of put- 
ting together is also quite an important feature, and 
where other methods are not given in this work by con- 
tributors, it would be well for the young housekeeper to 
observe the following directions : Never allow the butter 
to oil, but soften it by putting it in a moderately warm 
place before you commence other preparations for your 
cake ; then put it into an earthen dish (tin, if not new, 
will discolor your cake as you stir it), and add your 
sugar ; beat the butter and sugar to a cream ; add the 
yolks of the eggs, then the milk, and lastly the beaten 
whites of the eggs and flour. Spices and liquors may 
be added after the yolks of the eggs are put in, and 
fruit should be put in with the flour. 

The oven should be pretty hot for small cakes, d,nd 
moderate for larger. To ascertain if a large cake is suffi- 



296 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

ciently baked, pierce it with a broom-straw through the 
centre ; if done the straw will come out free from dough ; 
if not done, dough will adhere to the straw. Take it out 
of the tin about fifteen minutes after it is taken from the 
oven (not sooner), and do not turn it over on the top to 
cool. 

ICING. 

The following rules should be observed where boiled 
icing is not used : 

Put the whites of your eggs in a shallow earthen dish, 
and allow, at least, a quarter of a pound or sixteen table- 
spoons of the finest white sugar for each egg. Take part 
of the sugar at first and sprinkle over the eggs ; beat them 
for about half an hour, stirring in gradually the rest of 
the sugar ; then add the flavour. If you use the juice of a 
lemon, allow more sugar. Tartaric acid and lemon juice 
whitens icing. It may be shaded a pretty pink with 
strawberry juice or cranberry syrup, or coloured yellow 
by putting the juice and rind of a lemon in a thick muslin 
bag and squeezing it hard into the egg and sugar. 

If cake is well dredged with flour after baking, and 
then carefully wiped before the icing is put on, it will 
not run and can be spread more smoothly. Put frosting 
on to the cake in large spoonsful, commencing over the 
centre ; then spread it over the cake, using a large knife, 
dipping it occasionally in cold water. Dry the frosting 
on the cake in a cool, dry place. 

FROSTING. 

Mrs. Louise Dewey. 

One pint granulated sugar, moisten thoroughly with 



TALUABLE RECIPES. 297 

water sufficient to dissolve it when heated ; let it boil 
until it threads from the spoon, stirring often ; while the 
sugar is boiling, beat the whites of two eggs till they are 
fimi; then when thoroughly beaten, turn them into a 
deep dish, and when the sugar is boiled, turn it over the 
whites, beating all together rapidly until of the right con- 
sistency to spread over the cake. Flavour with lemon if 
preferred. This is sufficient for two loaves. 

FROSTING FOE CAKE. 

Ella Goild. 

One cup frosting sugar, two tablespoons of water boiled 
together; take it off the stove and stir in the white of one 
egg beaten to a stiff froth ; stir all together well ; then 
frost your cake with it, and you wiU never want a 
nicer frosting than this. 

ICE CEEAM ICING FOR WHITE CAEE. 

Mrs. P. B. Aver. 

Two cups pulverized sugar boiled to a thick syrup ; 
add three teaspoons vanilla ; when cold, add the whites 
of two eggs weU beaten, and flavoured with two teaspoons 
of citric acid. 

ICING. 

Mrs. H. P. Stowell. 

One pound pulverized sugar, pour over one tablespoon 
cold water, beat whites of three eggs a little, not to a 
stiff froth ; add to the sugar and water ; put in a deep 
bowl; place in a vessel of boiling water and heat. It 



2dS THE HOME COOE BOOK. 

will become thin and clear, afterward begin to thicken. 
When it becomes quite thick remove from the fire and 
stir while it becomes cool till thick enough to spread 
with a knife. This will frost several ordinary sized 
cakes. 

CHOCOLATE FKOSTING. 

Mrs. 0. H. Wheeler. 

Whites of two eggs, one and one-half cups of fine 
sugar, six great sjpoons of grated chocolate, two tea- 
spoons of vanilla ; spread rather thickly between layers 
and on the top of cake. Best when freshly made. It 
should be made like any frosting. 

BLACK FEUIT CAKE. 

Mrs. 0. H. Wheeler. 

Three-fourths pound of butter, one pound sugar 
(brown), one pound flour, two pounds currants, three 
pounds raisins (seeded), one-half pound citron, one- 
fourth pound almonds, eight eggs, one nutmeg, clflives 
and cinnamon, one wineglass of brandy. The raisins 
are better if soaked in brandy over night. 

BLACK CAKE. 

Mrs. G. F. DeForrest 

Two pounas of flour, two pounds sugar, two pounds 
butter, eight pounds raisins, four pounds currants, one 
pint brandy, two pounds citron, twenty-four eggs, two 
ounces nutmeg, two teaspoons of cloves ; add a little 
molasses to make it more moist and blacK. This makes 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 299 

trro very large loaves, baked in tin pans or hoops. For 
weddings. Splendid. 

COOKIES. 

Mrs. G. Wyllie. 

One cnp of butter, one cup of brown sugar, one tea- 
spoon of soda, three eggs, flour enough to roll out thin. 

MOLASSES COOKIES. 

Mrs. G. "Wyllie. 

One cup of molasses, one tablespoon of soda ; dissolve 
in half a cup of boiling water ; one tablespoon ginger, 
two tablespoons butter, and flour enough to roU out thin ; 
cut with cake cutter, and cook in quick oven. 

SUGAE COOKIES. 

Mrs. W. A. C. 

One and a half cups of sugar, one of butter, two eggs, 
half a cup of sour cream, one teaspoon of soda ; mix 
just so that you can roU out ; then sprinkle with sugar 
j^ before putting in oven ; bake quicks 

COOKIES. 
One tablespoon of butter, one cup of sugar, one egg, 
half a cup of milk, half a teaspoon of soda, one table- 
spoonful of ginger, flour to roll; cut in round cakes 
and bake in a rather quick oven. 

COOKIES. 

Mrs. W. Baird. 

One cup of sugar, one of butter, two eggs, spices to 
laste, two tablespoons of milk, one teaspoon of soda and 



800 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

half of cream of tartar; beat all together witli flour 
enough to roll out thin. 

COOKIES. 

Mrs. Stotesbory. 

Two eggs, one cup of butter, one of sugar, half tea- 
spoonful of soda, and flour enough to make a dough; 
roll thin and bake quickly. 

DEOP COOKIES. 

Mrs. J. D. OdeU. 

Two cups of sugar, one cup of milk, half cup of butter, 
three-quarters cup of flour, two teas loqnsful baking 
powder, two eggs. 

WHITE COOKIES. 

Mrs. J. B. Silliman. 

One cup of butter, two cups of sugar, one cup cf milk, 
four eggs, two tablespoonsful caraway seeda ; add flour 
enough to roll, and cut out. 

COOKIES. 

Mrs. W. A. OarsoD. 

One cup of butter, two of sugar, one-half of spur miia, 
one teaspoon of soda, flour enough to roll out thin ; cut 
with a sharp tin cake cutter ; bake in a quick oven. 

POOB MAN'S DOUGHNUTS. 
Mrs. George Virtue. 

One quart of floj^, two saltspoons of salt, four tea* 



VALUABLE BECIPE3. 



801 



upoonsful of yeast powder, one and one-half cups of 
sugar, one cup of milk, nutmeg. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

Ada King. 

One cup of sugar, two eggs, two tablespoons of melted 
butter, two-thirds cup of milk, two even teaspoons of 
cream tartar, one even teaspoon of soda, flour enough to 
roll, salt and nutmeg. 

NELL'S GINGER CAKE. 

Mrs. S. MoMaster. 

Two cups molasses, one large tablespoon of lard, one 
of ginger, one of salt, one cup of sweet milk, one tea- 
spoon of soda, four cups and one-half of sifted flour. 

FRIED CAKES. 

Mrs. S. McMaster. 

Three eggs, two and one-half cups sweet milk, two 
cups sugar, two teaspoons of cream of tartar, one of 
soda ; spices to taste ; roll out and cut in shapes, and 
fry iu boiling lard ; while hot dip in fine sugar. 

CREAM CAKE. 

Mamie Nereti. 

Two eggs, one cup of sugar, one cup of cream, two 
cups of flour, one teaspoonful of cream of tartar, and 
one teaspoonful of soda. « 



802 THB HOME OOOE BOOK. 

GINGEE CAKES. 

Mrs. Joseph Saulter. 

Two cups of syrup and one cup of lard, scalded 
together ; add one dessertspoonful of baking soda ; 
when cool add flour enough to make a dough ; ginger to 
taste ; roll out and cut into shapes with cutter ; bake in 
a medium oven ; rub a little syrup over the tops before 
baking. 

GINGEEBEEAD. 

Miss L. Stagman. 

One cup of butter, one cup of sugar, two cups of 
molasses, five and one-half cups of flour, six eggs, one 
cup of buttermilk, ginger and cinnamon essences to 
taste, and one dessertspoonful of soda. 



WHITE GINGEEBEEAD. 

Ettie. 

Eub half a pound of butter into one pound of flour, 
add half a pound of loaf sugar, which should be finely 
pounded and sifted, and the rind of one lemon very fine- 
ly minced, one ounce of ground ginger and a nutmeg 
grated. Mix these well together ; make one gill of milk 
just warm, stir in half a teaspoonful of carbonate of 
soda, and work the whole into a smooth paste ; roll it 
out into cakes, and bake in a moderate oven from 
fifteen to twenty minutes. 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 303 

GINGEE SPICE CAKE. 

Mrs. J. D. OdelL 

One cup of molasses, half a cup of butter, half 
a cup of milk, two eggs, one teaspoon of cloves, 
one teaspoon of cinnamon, one teaspoon of baking pow- 
der, salt ; bake in a quick oven. 

GINGEE CAKE. 

Mrs. Howe. 

Three eggs, three-quarters of a cup of sugar, one cup 
of molasses, one cup of milk, three quarters of a cup of 
butter, one teaspoon of soda, one teaspoon of cream of 
tartar, one tablespoouful of ginger, one of cinnamon, 
allspice, three cups of flour. 

WALNUT HILL'S DOUGHNUTS. 

Mrs. Howe. 

One teacup sour cream or milk, two teacups of sugar, 
one teacup of butter, four eggs ; spice with nutmeg and 
cinnamon; one teaspoonful of soda; beat all weU to- 
gether with some of the flour ; then mix with the hands 
till stiff enough to roll ; cut in diamond cakes and fry 
in hot lard. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

Mrs. Howe. 

One teacup of sugar, half a cup of sweet milk, two 
eggs, three tablespoons melted butter, haH a teaspoon- 
ful of soda ; spice with cinnamon ana nutmeg. 



304 THE HOME COQE BOOlE. 

RICE FLOUE CAEE. 

Mrs. How«. 

Ten eggs, one pound of sugar, one pound of rice flour ; 
flavour with lemon; beat the eggs and sugar half an 
hour, then add the flour. 

SOFT GINGER CAEE. 

Mn. W. A. Carson. 

Two eggs, one and one-half cups of molasses, three 
tablespoons of butter, one teacup of milk, on© teaspoon 
of soda and two of cream of tartar. 

GINGER COOKIES. 

Mrs. W. A. Carson. 

Two cups of molasses, two-thirds of a cup of butter, 
two teaspoons ginger, three teaspoons soda dissolved in 
a httle boiling water in a cup ; now fill the cup vrith 
butter milk ; do not mix too thick. 

SPICE CAKE. 

Mra. Cook. 

One and onerhalf cups of sugar, half cup butter, half 
of sour milk, two cups of raisins chopped, three eggs, 
half a nutmeg, one teaspoon cinnamon, one of cloves, 
one saleratus; mix rather stiff; bake in loaf tins in 
moderate oven. 

SPONGE JELLY CAKE. 

Mrs. B. J. Belford. 

Three e£^, one cup suga^, one cup flour, two tea- 



Valuable recipes. 805 

spoonsful baking powder, five tablespoons boiling water. 
This is quickly made, and you may use any filling you 
choose. 

FRITTERS. 

Mrs. Isaac Shannon. 

Two eggs, two cups sour milk, one teaspoon soda, 
four tablespoons butter, flour to thicken, fry in boiling 
lard. 

SOFT GINGERBREAD. 

Mrs. Ted Thomas. 

One pint molasses, five eggs, one coffee-cup sour milk, 
one butter, one tablespoon ginger, one tablespoon soda, 
flour to thicken ; bake in a long tin. 

CREAM SPONGE CAKE. 

Mrs. John Thomas. 

One cup sugar, one-half cup cream, two eggs, one cup 
dour, one-half teaspoon cream tartar, one-fourth soda, 
flavour with a few drops of lemon essence. 

. JELLY CAKE. 

Mrs. John Thomas. 

One cup sugar, two tablespoons butter, two eggs, 
three tablespoons milk, one cup flour, essence, one tea- 
spoon Cook's Friend, or one-half teaspoon cream tartar 
and one-fourth soda ; bake in two jeUy tins in a 
moderately warm oven ; beat the sugar and butter welj 
together. ai 



30d THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

LOAF CAKE. 

Mrs. John Thomas. 

One cnp sugar, one-half cup butter, one egg, one cup 
Bweet milk, one pint flour, one cup raisins, one-half tea- 
spoon soda, one teaspoon cream tartar, essence. 

LIGHT TEA CAKES. 

Mrs. John Thomas. 

X)ne and one-half cups sugar, two-thirds cup butter, 
three eggs, three tablespoons sour milk, in which dissolve 
one-half teaspoon soda, flour ; mix as soft as possible 
and roll white sugar on top before cutting into rings. 

FEATHEE CAKE. 

Miss Enapp. 

White sugar one cup, butter one-half cup, flour two 
cups, eggs three, two teaspoonsful of baking powder, 
nutmeg or other flavouring to suit the taste. Very good, 

COCOANUT CAKE. 

Augusta Simmers. 

One cup of butter, three eggs, one of milk, lour and 
one-half cups of flour, four teaspoonsful Cook's Friend, 
two teacups of desicated cocoanut. 

GERMAN EINGS. 

Augusta Simmers. 

One-half pound of flour, one-half pound butter, one 
tablespoon sugar, one . tablespoon brandy, two eggs; 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 607 

beat all together ; make them in rings and put cinnamon 
and sugar on the top. 

POUND CAKE. 

Augusta SimmeTS. 

One ponnd of flour, three-fouitlis of a pound butter, 
three-fourths of a pound sugar, eight eggs ; flavour to 
taste. 

1, 2, 3, 4 CAKE. 

Angnsta Simmers. 

One cup of butter, two of sugar, three cups of 6our, 
four eggs add ; a little more flour, roll out very thin on 
sugar, cut any shape, and bake quickly. 

RICE cae:e. 

Mrs. BendelarL 

Half a pound of sugar, half a pound of flour, six eggs, 
one teaspoon vanUla ; break in the eggs on the flour 
and sugar, whip for half an hour with the back of a 
dinner knife ; bake twenty minutes in a moderate oven. 

RICE CAKE. 

Mrs. Arthurs. 

Break six eggs on half a pound of rice flour and 
half a pound of crushed white and sifted sugar, then 
beat all together for fifteen minutes, and flavour with a 
few drops of essence of lemon ; line a dish with buttered 
paper and bake half an hour. 



303 THE HOME OOOE BOOS. 

CUP CAKE. 

S. T. M. 

One and one-half cups sugar, one cup butter, three 
eggs well beaten, a little nutmeg, and two teaspoonsful 
of Cook's Friend or baking powder, and suflScient flour 
to make a rather thick batter, 

CUP CAKE. 

Mrs. Artburg. 

One cup of butter, one of sifted sugar, one of milk, 
three cups of flour, three eggs, three teaspoonsful of 
baking powder, flavour with essence of lemon; line a dish 
with buttered paper and bake one hour. 

PLAIN FEUIT CAKE. 

Mrs. Arthurs. 

One-half pound of well washed currants, and one-half 
pound of raisins, one cup of butter beaten to a cream, 
one cup of white sugar, one cup of milk, three cups of 
flour, three eggs, and three teaspoonsful of baking 
powder ; paper a dish and bake one hour. 

DEOP CAKES. 

Mrs. Arthnrs. 

One pint of flour, one-half pound of butter, one-fourth 
pound of sifted sugar, half a nutmeg grated, a handful 
of currants, two eggs, and one teaspoonful of baking 
powder ; to be baked in a slack oven for ten minutes. 
The above quantity will make about thirty cakes. 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 809 

SPONGE CAKE. 

Mrs. W. Arthurs. 

Four eggs, two cups sugar, two cups flour, one-hall 
cup cold water, three teaspoonsful Cook's Friend ; beat 
the eggs separately. 

CUP CAKE. . 

Mrs. Arthnrs. 

One cup butter, two cups sugar, three cups flour, four 
eggs, cup milk, three teaspoonsful Cook's Friend. 

GEEMAN LADIES' FINGERS. 

Helena Smith. 

Beat the yolks of five eggs with half a pound of sugar 
for fifteen minutes ; add half a pound of blanched 
almonds cut fine, the grated rind of one lemon ; mix 
well ; add half a pound of flour very gradually ; roU out 
the paste and cut into strips the length and size of the 
forefinger ; bake in a moderate oven. 

RICE CAKE. 

Helena Smith. 

One cup of white sugar, one of rice flour, five eggs, 
one teaspoonlul of any essence preferred ; beat all 
together for twenty minutes ; bake half an hour in a 
moderate oven. 

WHITE CAKE. 

Mrs. Oeorge Virtne. 

Beat one-half pound fresh butter to a cream, 
equal weight sifted sugar and dried sugar, the yolks and 



810 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

whites of eight eggs separately whisked, two ounces 
candied orange peel, one-half teaspoonful of mace, a 
glass of brandy, one pound flour stirred in by degrees, 
one and one-quarter pounds of currants, four ounces ot 
powdered almonds ; bake two hours. 

SWEET SANDWICHES. 

Clara Smith. 

Five eggs, one-half pound white sugar, one-fourth 
pound butter, all beaten together until rery light ; add 
one-fourth pound flour mixed with a teaspoonful of 
Cook's Friend. 

SHEEWSBURY CAKE, 

Clara Smith. 

One cup butter, two of brown sugar, five eggs (not 
divided,) one cup milk, four of flour, one of raisins, 
epice to taste ; use Cook's Friend in the flour ; bake 
three hours. 

COCOANU!r CAKE. 

Mrs. W. T. Eyre. 

Two eggs, cup of sugar, cup of flour, two tablespoons- 
ful of water ; white of one egg and teaspoonful of sugar 
mixed together to make the cocoa stick. 

CENTENNIAL CAKE. 

Mrs. George Virtue. 

Five eggs, three cups of powdered sugar, one cup of 
cream or milk, one cup of butter, four cups of flour, the 



VALIJABLE SEOIPBS. 811 

rind and part of juice of one lemon, and a little baking 
powder, or use prepared flour. 

LUNCHEON CAKE. 

M. a. 

One-half pound butter, one pound flour, one-hall 
ounce caraway seeds, one-fourth pound currants, six 
ounces moist sugar, one ounce candied peel, three eggs, 
one-half pint milk, one small teaspoonful of carbonate 
of soda ; bake in a moderate oven from one to one and 
one-half hours. Proved to be very good. 

PLAIN SPONGE FOR JELLY OR COCOANUT CAKE. 

Mrs. B. Beaty. 

One cup flour, one cup sugar, three eggs, yolks and 
whites beaten separately, one teaspoonful cream tar- 
tar, one-half teaspoonful soda, four tablespoons cold 
water. Flavour to taste. 

MOUNTAIN CAKE. 

Fannie. 

One cup of sugar, two eggs, one-half cup butter, one- 
half cup milk or water, two cups of flour, one teaspoon- 
ful of cream of tartar, one-half teaspoonful of soda, and 
a little nutmeg. 

JOE'S OAKE. 

Fannie S. 

Two cups of sugar, one-half cup butter, two eggs, half 
a cup ot raisins chopped line, half a cup of currants, a 



812 THE HOME COOK BOOR. 

little lemon-peel, one teaspoonful of essence of lemon, 
one-half cup of milk, two teaspoonsful of baking powdej: 
and three cups of flour. 

CHOCOLATE DEESSING FOB CAKE. 

Mrs. S. McMaster. 

One bar and a half chocolate, five tablespoons sweet 
milk, four of powdered sugar; boil soft and thick; 
when cool add whites of two eggs and sugar to thicken. 

PUFF CAKE. 

Mrs. Sam. McMaster. 

One cup of sugar, one of flour, three eggs, three tea- 
spoons cold water, two of baking powder, a pinch of salt ; 
bake in sponge cake pans. 

The Paste for Above. — One cup of milk, one table- 
spoon of com starch, one egg, a pinch of salt; cook like 
boiled custard ; split each cake open with a knife and 
fill the space with the paste, taking care not to let any 
appear outside the cakes. These may be made extra 
nice by iceing with chocolate dressing. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

Mrs. J. D. OdeU. 

One and one-half cups sugar, one cup of milk, two 
cups of flour, piece of butter the size of a small egg, 
one egg, two teaspoonsful baking powder. Iceing. Whites 
of two eggs, one cup of sugar, one-half cup chocolate ; 



*«fe, 



VALUABLE EECIPE8. 313 

beat all together and cook in a dish set in boiling water 
until smooth like iceing ; spread between the cakes. 



CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

M. B. Beard. 

One cup of butter, one cup milk, three of sugar, four 
cups of flour, six eggs, one teaspoon of soda, two tea- 
spoons of cream of tartar; bake in layers like jelly 
cake. Iceing for cake to place between: One cup of 
sugar, one cake of chocolate, the whites ot cwo eggs 
whipped together. 

COCOANUT CAKE. ^ 

M. B. Beard. 

One cup of butter, three of sugar, one of milk, four of 
flour or one pint, one teaspoonful of soda, two of cream of 
tartar, five eggs ; bake in layers like jelly cake. Iceing 
to place between the layers : Half a pound of white 
sugar to the whites of two eggs, whip the eggs and add 
the grated cocoanut in, and place between the layers. 

MOUNTAIN CAKE. 

M. B. Beard. 

One-half cup of sugar, one-half cup of butter, ona 
cup of milk, two and one-fourth cups of flour, one tea- 
spoonful soda, two teaspoonsful of crtjam of tartar, two 
eggs, a little nutmeg. 



314 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

COTTAGE PUDDING. 

M. B. Beard. 

One-half cup of sugar, one cup of milk, one pint of 
flour, three tablespoonsful of melted butter, one tea- 
spoonful soda, two of cream of tartar, two eggs, a little 
salt ; bake one-quarter of an hour in small pans. 

EKUIT CAKE. 

Mrs. Snider. 

Half a pound of butter, half a pound of sugar ; rub 
well together ; four eggs well beaten, haK a teaspoon of 
soda, one wine glass of whiskey, half a nutmeg, fruit to 
suit the taste, flour to stiSen ; bake in a slow oven j 

this cake will keep for weeks. 

CEULLIES. 

Mrs. Snider. 

Three eggs, two cups of sugar, one cup of butter, two 
cups of sour milk, two teaspoons Cook's Friend, spice, 
flour to stiffen ; cut in rings and fry in hot lard. 

MOLASSES CAKE. 

Mrs. Snider. 

One cup of butter, one cup of brown sugar, one cup 
of molasses, one cup of sweet milk, three cups of flour, 
four eggs, one and a half teaspoons of cream tartar, one 
teaspoon of soda, two pounds of raisins chopped fine, 
nutmeg ; bake in a slow oven. 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 815 

SOFT GINGERBEEAD. 
Mrs. Snider. 

Five cnps of flour, tliree cups of mola5''jes, one cup oi 
butter, one cup of milk or water, two tablespoons gin- 
ger, two eggs, one teaspoon soda ; baKe slowly. 

SPONGE CAK^. 
Mrs. Uphani* 

The weight of eight eggs izi sugar, half the weight in 
flour, and the juice and rind of one lemon ; beat two 
eggs separately. 

GINGER SNAPS. 

Mrs. Upham. 

Qne pint of molasses, one cup of butter, a teaspoon- 
f ul each of ginger, cloves, and soda ; put all over the fire 
together and let it come to a boil, using a large vessel, 
as it is likely to foam over ; when nearly cool add flour 
enough to make a stiff dough ; roU out and cut into 
small cakes. 

WINTER SPONGE CAKE. 

lira. Upbam. , 

Take four eggs, two cups of sugar, two coffee-cups of 
flour, two teaspoonsful cream tartar, two-thirds of a cup 
boiling water, and lemon to flavour ; add the water 
last ; pour into a pan and place into a weU-heated oven. 
This, though apparently very thin, will come from the 
oven a most delightful cake.' 



310 !rHE HOME COOK BOOg. 

WEDDING CAKE. 

Mrs. Upham. 

Five poiinds of seeded raisins, two pounds of cur- 
rants, one pound of citron, twelve eggs, one pound of 
butter, one pound sugar (brown), one coffee-cup of 
molasses, a little br«ndy, one tea-cup of spices. 

ICEING FOB ANY CAKE. 

Mrs. Upham. 

Instead of beating the eggs to a stiff froth, as is gen- 
erally the case, take four tablt'^epoons of sugar to the 
egg, and stir thoroughly; then spread on cake; will 
make a much harder iceing than b.^ating it. 

CAKE. 

Mr. Upham. 

Cream filled cakes: These delicious cakes are very 
easily made if care is taken to have the water boiling. 
Measure out one-half pint and put in a small kettle ; 
immediately after it comes to a boil again put in two- 
thii-ds of a cup of butter and one and a half cups of 
flour ; stir briskly for a moment, leaving it over the fire; 
remove this mixture and place in a dish where it will 
get entirely cold; beat five large fresh eggs very 
thoroughly, then stir in your cold mixture a spoonful at 
a time ; stir it all until smooth and free from lumps ; 
drop them upon a greased dripping pan in small pear- 
shaped cakes ; bake half an hour in a real hot oven ; 
don't be afraid they will burn unless you see them doing 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 817 

80. When done they will be hollow inside, of a bright 
brown colour ; if not well done they will flatten. The 
oven must be hot when you put them in, and if kept bo 
success is sure. 

Filling or Cream : Put a little more than one pint of 
Tnillc iu a pail and set in boiling water ; beat two eggs, 
two-thirds cup of com starch, one full cup sugar, one- 
half teaspoonful salt, and some vanilla, thoroughly to- 
gether ; add a full half cup of milk, and stir all into 
your boiling nulk; it should be very thick; cut open 
your cakes near the bottom and fill very full of cream ; 
be sure the cream is cold. 



DEIED APPLE CAKE. 

Mrs. Brodie. 

Soak three cupsful of dried apples over night in warm 
water, chop slightly, then let them simmer for one hour 
and a half in two cups of syrup or molasses ; add two 
eggs, one cup of sugar, one cup of sweet milk, half cup 
of butter, one teaspoonful of soda, flour enough to make 
a BiiS batter ; bake in a quick oven. 

CHEAP AND GOOD CAKE. 

Ada King. 

One cup of sugar, one-fourth cup of butter, three- 
fourths cup water cold, one and three- fourths cup of 
flour, whites of two eggs, one teaspoon of lemon, baking 
powder used. 



316 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

. SPICE CAKE. 

Ada King. 

One cup of sugar, three-fourths cup of hutter, fill up 
with milk, one egg, one and three-fourths cup of flour, 
one small teaspoon soda, one dessert spoon of cinna- 
mon, cloves, and allspice. 

FBUIT CAKE. 

Mrs. J. D. OdeU. 

One cup hutter, two cups of sugar, one cup molasses, 
fiix cups flour, one cup sour cream or milk, three eggs, 
one teaspoon soda, one pound raisins, one pound cur- 
rants, one-fourth pound citron, three nutmegs, cloves 
and mace one tablespoon each. This will make one 
large cake or two small ones. 

COEN STAECH CAKE. 

Two cups pulverized sugar, two-thirds cup melted 
butter, one-half cup milk, two teaspoons baking powder, 
one teaspoon vanilla, one paper com starch, six eggs. 

CKEAM PUFFS. 

Mrs. J. D. OdeU. 

One and one-half cups flour, two-thirds cup butter, 
one-half pint water ; boil butter and water together, stir 
in flour while boiling, let it cool, and add five well beaten 
eggs ; drop on tins and bake in a quick oven. When 
cool fill with the following : One pint of milk, one cup 
sugar, two-thirds cup corn stcorch, two .eggs ; beat sugar, 



TALUABLE RECIPES. 819 

eggs, and flour together ; stir in the milk while boiling ; 
flavour with lemon or vanilla, 

PLAIN FKUIT CAKE 

Mrs. Hamilton. 

Three cups of sffgar, one and a half of butter, one 
and a half of molasses, one of milk, four eggs, one tea- 
spoonful soda, two teaspoonsful cinnamon, two teaspoons- 
ful cloves, two teaspoonsful nutmeg, two pounds currants, 
one-half pound citron, one glass of wine, flour to make a 
stiff batter. 

MRS. J. R. SILLIMAN'S SPICE CAKE. 

Take one cup of butter, two cups of molasses, 
four eggs, two tablespoonsful of allspice, two tea- 
spoonsful of baking powder, one cup of milk, three cups 
of flour. 

MRS. J. R SILLIMAN'S WHITE SPONGE CAKE. 

Take two tumblers of white pulverized sugar, one and 
a half tumblers sifted flour, one teaspoonful cream tar- 
tar, white of ten eggs beaten very stiff; then add the 
flour and sugar, and beat as little as possible ; bake in 
a slow oven. 

LOVELY SPONGE CAKE. 

Mrs. J. D. King. 

One pound of sugar, one-half pound of flour, ten 
eggs, one grated lemon ; beat sugar and yolks to a cream, 



820 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

whites to a stiff froth ; add lemon to the sugar and ej gs 
when beaten. Takes two persons to make it. 

VANITY CAKE. 

Mrs. Hamilton. 

Two egga, one cup flour rolled thin as a wafer ; out 
in patterns ; boiled in lard. 

SODA CAKE. 

Mrs. Hamilton. 

Two cups sugar, one-half cup butter, one cup of milk, 
three and a half of flour, two eggs, one teaspoonful Cook's 
Friend ; flavour with lemon. 

NICE LITTLE CAKES— CHEAP. 

Madame E. Fernet. 

One-half cup butter, one-half cup sugar, one-half cup 
milk, three cups flour, two eggs, two spoonsful baking 
powder. Mode — Beat the eggs, add the sugar, the batter 
well beaten, and half a nutmeg if the flavour be approved 
of, if not any other spice, or a few drops of essence of 
any kind ; mix the baking powder well with the flour, 
and add by degrees to the mixture ; bake in small patty 
pans half an hour in a quick oven. They will be found 
very good if properly made. 

SANDWICH CAKE. 

Miss BrokoTsU. 

One coffee cup of sugar, one large tablespoonful of 
butter beaten to a cream with the sugar, three eggs 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 821 

beaten separately, one heaping coflfee-cup of flour, three 
teaspoonsful of baking powder mixed well through the 
flour, and one tablespoonful of milk ; if cream of tartar, 
two teaspoonsful and one of soda, mixing the cream 
tartar in the flour, and putting soda in the milk. Mix 
all together, seasoning with extract of lemon ; beat well 
for a few minutes ; bake on four flat tins in a quick 
oven. This may be put together with jelly or custard or 
cocoanut, using the desicated cocoanut, moistened with 
the whites of three eggs beaten to a froth, and iced over. 



LEMON CHEESE CAKE. 

Mrs. Joseph Saolter. 

Break one pound of loaf sugar into small lumps, put 
to it one-quarter pound of butter, the yolks of six eggs 
with the whites of four, the juice of three lemons, and 
the peel of two grated ; put these into a pan, let them 
simmer over a slow fire until the sugar is dissolved; 
continue to stir it gently one way while it is on the fire, 
or it will curdle ; keep it in a jar like mince meat ; let 
it simmer till it begins to thicken, or looks like honey. 

BHBEWSBUBY CAKE. 

Miss Isaac Shannon. 

One-half pound of flour, and butter and sugar 
firmly pounded, one egg, and a teaspoonful of 
mace ; roll them out the size you like ; bake them in a 
slow oven. Excellent. 



822 THE HOME COOK BOOS. 

EXCELLENT CAKE. 

Mrs. Joseph Eobinson. 

One pound flour, one-half pound butter, three-fourths 
pound sugar, one-half pint of milk, five eggs, two table- 
spoonsful of brandy, one teaspoonful of soda and two of 
cream of tartar. Put half this quantity into a cake tin 
for a plain cake, then add one cup of currants to the 
remainder, which will make a nice variety of cake. 

FEUIT CAKE. 

Mrs. Ira Metoalf. 

One pound butter, one pound brown sugar, one cup 
molasses, nine eggs, half a pint brandy, one pound flour, 
one-half pound mace, three pounds raisins, three pounds 
currants, one pound citron, nutmeg and cloves to taste; 
rub one-half pound flour with fruit ; steam two hours 
in a dish, then bake one hour. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

Mrs. Ira Metcalf. 

Three eggs, one cup white sugar, one teaspoon of 
creamof tartar, one-half of soda, three tablespoons of 
boiUng water, flour to thicken. 

FIG CAKE. 

Mrs. Tnisbie. 

For the white part : Take two cups of sugar, two of 
flour, two-thirds of sweet milk, one-half of butter, whites 
of five eggs, two teaspoons baking powder ; bake this in 
two round tins like you would jelly cake. For fig or dark 



VALUABLE BEOIPES. 823 

part : Take one cup of brown sugar, Lutter size of wal- 
nut, one cup flour, one cup chopped figs, one-half cup 
sweet milk, one egg, one teaspoon baking powder ; when 
done place the fig cake betvreen the light cake, with a 
little frosting. 

SPONGE JELLY CAKE. 

Mrs. Carson. 

Three eggs beaten separate, one cup sugar, one cup 
flour, two teaspoons baking powder put into the flour, * 
and three tablespoons boiling water. Mix all together 
and cook in jelly tins in a quick oven ; place either jelly 
or chocolate frosting between the cakes. 

CHOCOLATE FROSTING. 

Mrs. Carson. 

One-half cup chocolate grated, one cup sugar, yolk of 
one egg, small cup half full of sweet milk ; put on stove 
and stir while cooking till it will candy when dropped 
in cold water. 

WASHINGTON CREAM CAKE. 

Mrs. Canon. 

Two cups sugar, one-half cup sweet milk," four eggs, 
three cups flour, three even teaspoons baking powder, 
butter size of an egg. 

Cream fob Washington Case. — One pint of sweet 
milk, three eggs, one cup flour, one sugar, flavour with 



324 THE HOME OOOE BOOK. 

anything ; after it is cooked add half cup butter, and 
place between the cakes as you would jelly. 

COFFEE CAKE. 

Mrs. Canon. 

One cup molasses, one cup brown sugar, one cup cold 
coffee, four cups sifted flour, one-half cup butter, two 
teaspoons baking powder and a small teaspoon allspice. 

DELICATE CAKE. ' 

Mrs. Charles Rogers. 

One-half cup butter, one cup sugar, one cup sifted 
flour, one-half cup com starch, one-half cup milk, one 
teaspoon of baking powder, four eggs, using ^*ie whites 
only. 

POUND CAKE. 

Mrs. Charles Rogers. 

One cup of butter, one cup of sugar, four ef^s beaten 
separately, one and one-half cups sifted flour ; mix 
butter and sugar to a cream, then put in yo'ks b<^ten 
light, the flour and whites last. 

COCOANUT CAKE. 

Mrs. Carson. 

One cup butter, two cups white sugar, one cup milk, 
three coffee-cups sifted flour, whites of six eggs beaten 
light, three even teaspoons of baking powder, one 
cocoanut grated ; do not use the milk of nut ; mix and 
bake in oyen. 



VALUABLE EECIFES. B25 

GOLD CAKE. 

Mn. Ira Metoalf. 

One haK cup butter, two cups sugar, half cup milk, 
three of flour, three teaspoons baking powder, and 
yolks of four eggs. 

For the silver cake use the same receipt, only in place 
of the yolks of eggs use the whites of four eggs. 

For marble cake same receipt, using brown sugar one 
cup, and one cup molasses, and some spices, and drop 
in dish on the white cake or silver receipt. 

CALIFORNIA CAKE. 

Mrs. Charles Rogers. 

Two cups sugar, one cup butter, one cup milk, two 
eggs, three teaspoons baking powder, put in three cups 
sifted flour, flavour and add fruit. This receipt makes 
Iwo cakes. 

LEMON CHEESE CAKE. 

Mrs. Carson. 

Two cups sugar, half cup butter, three-quarters cup 
sweet milk, whites of six eggs, three cups flour, three 
teaspoons baking powder. 

Sauce fob Lemon Cheese Cake. — Grated rind and 
juice of two lemons, yolks of three eggs, half cup but- 
ter, one cup sugar ; mix all together, and set on stove, 
and cook till thick as sponge, stirring all the time ; then 
use like I'elly between the cakes. 



826 THE HOME COOK BOOS. 

' GINGER DEOP CAKES. 

Mrs. Carson. 

Two cups of molasses, two cups of sugar, two cups of 
butter or lard, two cups of sour milk, two tablespoons 
of soda, two spoons of cinnamon, one of cloves, nine 
cups of flour, and ginger to suit taste ; drop from spoon 
into a pan, and cook in oven, taking care not to burn. 

WHITE MOUNTAIN JELLY CAKE. 

Mrs. Carson. 

One cup of butter, two cups of sugar, three and a half 
cups of flour, one cup of milk, two eggs, two teaspoons 
cream of tartar, one teaspoon soda ; stir all together with- 
out separating eggs ; put soda in milk, and stir the 
cream of tartar in flour ; bake the same as jelly cake, 
and use frosting between made of whites of three eggs 
and fine white sugar. 

DELICATE CAKE. 

Mrs. Taylor. 

Half cup of butter, one of sugar, one of flour, one-half 
of com starch, one-half cup of milk, one teaspoon of 
baking powder, four eggs, whites alone. 

CALIFORNIA CAKE. 

Mrs. Taylor 

Two cups of sugar, half a cup of butter, one cup of 
milk, two eggs, three teaspoons of baking powder, three 
cups of sifted flour, flavour, or atld fruit. This makes 
two cakes. Bake in bread tins. 



TALUABLE RECIPES. 827 

PAN DADDLINGS. 
Mm. Bogen. 
Four cups rye meal, two cups of Indian meal, one 
cup of molasses, plenty of suet, a little allspice, one egg, 
milk to thin it to a batter that will drop from the spoon, 
one teaspoon of soda, three chopped apples ; fry in hot 
lard like fried cakes ; dip the spoon in the lard and dip 
up your batter and drop into hot lard ; fry a light brown. 

FRI^D CAKES. 

Mrs. Carson. 

One cnp of sugar, two eggs, half a cup of shortening, 
one teaspoon of soda, one cup of sour milk, cut in rings ; 
have your lard very Lot, in which place a peeled potato 
to keep lard from burning, and drop in your cakes ; they 
will come to the top of lard when light; fry a dark 
brown ; when taken out sprinkle sugar over them. 

FRENCH CAKES. 

Five' cups of flour, two cups of sugar, half a cup of 
butter, one cup of milk, one wineglass of wine, three 
eggs, spice to taste, one teaspoon of soda ; rub the but- 
ter and sugar together, then add the milk ; part of the 
flour, Boda in the wine next ; then the rest of the flour, 
and eggs beaten separately, the whites last ; bake in 
square tins. 

ORANGE CAKE. 

Mrs. Smith. 

One cup of sugar, half a cup of butter, half a cup of 
sweet milk, two cups of flour, three eggs, one and a- half 
teaspoonsful of baking powder ; bake in jelly tins. 



328 tHB HOME dOOK BOOK. 

Orange Frosting for Same. — One orange, grate off 
the outside, and mix with juice, and add sugar until 
quite stiff, and make like jelly cake ; make fOur layers 
ol the cake. 



MEg. EOGER'S CAKE. 

Two cups of sugar, one cup water cold, whites ot 
eleven eggs, three teaspoons of baking powder, one and 
one-haK cups flour, two-thirds cup butter ; stir butter 
and sugar up together till it is light ; put whites into 
sugar and butter, flour and powder in last. 



MRS. ROGER'S POUND CAKE. 

One cup of butter, one of sugar, four eggs beaten 
separately, one and one-half cups of sifted flour ; mix 
butter and sugar to a cream, then put in yolks beaten 
light, then flour and whites last. 



CORN STARCH CAKE. 

Mrs. Ira Metoalf. 

One cup butter, three cups sugar, beaten to a cream, 
then add in the following order : two scant cups flour, 
whites of eight eggs, three teaspoons of baking powder 
mixed with flour, and lastly, one and one-half cups of 
corn starch mixed smooth in one cup of milk ; flavour 
as you please ; bake in an ordinary flat tin pan, and cut 
in diamonds when cold. 



VALUABLE BE0IPB8. 829 

WHITE SPONGE CAKE. 

Mn. Ira Metcalf. 

• 

Whites of eight eggs, one and a half tumblers white 
sugar, one of flour, one teaspoon of cream of tartar, 
flavour to taste, bake in flat tins, and if you choose, ice 
Tvith " chocolate icing" No. 1 ; cut in diamond shapes. 

COCOANUT CAKE. 

Mrs. Ira Metoalf. 

One cup of butter, three cups of sugar, one cup of 
milk, three eggs, four teaspoons of baking powder, one 
large cocoanut grated. 

COCOANUT CAKE. 

Mrs. Bogera. 

One cup of butter, two cups of white sugar, one cup 
of milk, three coffee cups of flour, whites of six eggs, 
well beaten, three teaspoons baking powder, one cocoa- 
nut grated ; do not use the milk of nut. 

COCOANUT CAKE MADE AS JELLY CAKE. 

Mrs. Ira Metealf. 

One cup of butter, three cups of sugar, one cup oi 
milk, five cups of flour, six teaspoons of baking powder, 
whites of eight eggs ; bake in jelly cake pans ; for dress- 
ing to put between take the whites of six eggs beaten 
stiff, half a pound of dessicated cocoanut, and one cup 
of powdered sugar. 



880 TEE HOME COOK BOOK. 

LEMON CHEESE CAKE. 

Mrs. Ira Metoalf. 

For the cake take part of two caps of sngar, u**. "^ 
cup of butter, three-quarters of a cup of sweet milk, 
whites of six eggs, three cups of flour, three teaspoons 
of baking powder. 

Jelly for Lemon Cheese Cake. — Grated rind and 
juice of two lemons, yolks of three eggs, half a cup of 
butter, one cup of sugar, mix all together, and set on 
the stove and cook till thick as sponge, taking care not 
to burn ; use like jelly between the cakes, or bake 
one square cake and put the dressing on top and cut in 
shape of diamonds. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

Mrs. W. A. Carson. 

One cup of butter, two cups of sugar, five eggs, leav- 
ing out two of the whites ; one scant cup of milk, two 
full teaspoons of baking powder ; mix well in three cups 
of sifted flour ; bake in two long tins. 

For Frosting. — Beat whites of two eggs to a stiff 
froth, add a scant cup and a half of sugar ; flavour with 
vanilla, six tablespoons grated chocolate ; the cake must 
be cold. 

GOLD CAKE. 

Mra. "W. A. Canon. 

Three-quarters of a cup of butter beaten to a cream, 
one cup of sugar; the yolks of eight eggs, two cups of 
sifted flour, one teaspoon of cream of tartar, half a tea- 
spoon of soda dissolved in half a cup of sweet milk. 



YALTJABZiS BECIPEfl. 631 

MAEBLE CAKE. 

Mrs. D. McCraney. 

White Pabt. — One cnp of butter, two ctips of white 
Bugar, half a cup of sour cream or buttermilk, three and 
a half cups of flour, whites of seven eggs, one teaspoon- 
ful of soda. 

Black Pabt. — Two cupB of brown sugar, one cnp of 
butter, one cup of molasses, five cups of flour, haK a cup 
of sour cream or buttermilk, yolks of seven eggs, one 
grated nutmeg, two tablespoonsful of cinnamon, one 
tablespoonful of cloves, one tablespoonful of allspice, 
one teaspocnful of black pepper, one teaspoonful of 
soda. 

JELLY CAKE. 

Mrs. D. McCranej. 

One cupful of white sugar, three eggs, yolks and 
whites beaten separately ; one cup of flour, from which 
a tablespoon of flour is taken and its place supplied by 
com starch ; half a teaspoonful of soda, and one tea- 
spoonful of cream of tartar. If for sponge cake use 
four e.-^gs. 

VELVET CAKE. 



'OO^ 



Mra. D. MeCranej. 

Half pound of butter, one pound of pulverized sugar, 
one pound of flour, four eggs, one teacup of cold water, 
half teaspoonful of soda, one of cream of tartar, flavour to 
taste ; bake an hour, add fruit and spice if desired, or 
make into chocolate cake by being baked as jelly cake. 



882 THIS HOME COOK BOOK. 

LINCOLN FKUIT CAKE. 

Mrs. D. MoCraney. 

One ponnd of butter, one pound of brown sugar, one 
pound of flour, six eggs, two cups of sour cream or 
buttermilk, one grated nutmeg, one teaspoonful of 
powdered cinnamon, one tablespoonful of rose water, 
lemon peel and fruit to taste, one teaspoonful of soda 
dissolved in hot water and stirred into the milk just be- 
fore adding it to the cake. 

"CEEAM CAKE. 

Mrs. Ira Metcalf. 

One pint of good cream, two tablespoons flour, one- 
half cup white sugar, whites of two eggs well beaten ; 
bake in flat tins and frost with soft frosting. 
CKEAM CAKE NO. 2. 

Mrs. Ira Metcalf. 

One cup of cream, one cup of sugar, two cupi of flour, 
two eggs, one teaspoon of soda. 

SILVER CAKE. 

Mrs. Ira Metcalf. 

Two cups of fine white sugar, two and one-half cups 
of sifted flour, one-half cup of butter, one-quarter qup of 
'sweet milk, one-half teaspoon of soda dissolved in the 
milk, one teaspoon of cream of tartar, the whites of 
eight eggs. Flavour to taste. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

Mrs. H. Baird. 

Five eggs, one and one-half cups of flour, one and 



TALUABLE RECIPES. 833 

*- 

one-half oops sugar, one-third cup of water, one-quarter 
teas poon soda, one-half cream of tartar ; flavour with 
lemon. 

JELLY CAKE. 

Mrs. H. Baird. 

Three eggs, a small teacup of sugar, one cup of flour, 
whites and yolks of the eggs beaten together ; flavour, 
and bake in two layers, in a quick oven. 

COCOANUT CAKE. 

Mrs. H. Baird. 

Three eggs, one cup of sugar, one cup of nulk, two 
cups and one-half of flour, one tablespoon of butter, one 
teaspoon of soda, two teaspoons of cream of tartar. 
Beat with a fork. Add milk and whites of the eggs to- 
gether ; only half of the whites ; keep the rest for icing 
with cocoanut. 

LUCY'S TEA CAKE. 

Mrs. H. Baird. 

Two eggs, one cup of sugar, one-half cup of butter, 
one teacup of milk, two cups of flour, and a few currants. 
CORN STAECH CAKE. 

Mrs. Baird. 

Whites of six eggs, one cup of butter, two cups of 
flour, one cup of com starch, two cups of sugar, one cup 
of sweet milk, one-half teaspoon of soda, one of cream 
of tartar. 



834 i:he houb coos boos. 

CAKE— WASHINGTON. 

Mrs. J. H. Mead. 

One and three-quarters pounds of flour, one and one 
quarter of a pound of sugar, three-quarters of a pound 
of butter, four eggs, a wine glass of brandy and one of 
wine, one pint of milk, a teaspoon of soda, one nutmeg, 
two pounds of raisins, currants, and candied fruit. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

Mrs. J. H. Mead. 

One dozen eggs, ten ounces of flour, one pound fine 
white sugar ; break the eggs into the sugar, place on the 
stove and heat till milk warm, then take them off and 
beat till quite cold ; flavour with essence of lemon, stir 
in the flour very lightly ; butter your baking tins and 
sift sugar all over the bottom and sides ; put in the 
mixture, sift sugar on the top and bake in a yery 
moderate oven. 

LEMON CAKE. 

Mrs. J. H. Mead 

Half a cup of milk, half a cup of butter, two small 
cups of sugar, three small cups of flour, whites of four 
eggs, two teaspoons of cream of tartar, one teaspoon of 
Boda ; flavour with lemon ; beat the butter to a cream, 
add eggs well whipped, then sugar ; mix cream of tartar 
in the flour, and soda in milk. 



\ 

VALUABLE BSCIPE& 33b^ 

JELLY CAKE. 

Mrs. J. H. Mead. 

Two eggs, one cup of sugar, one tablespoon of butter, 
one and a half cups of flour, one tablespoon of baking 
powder, two-thirds of a cup of milk ; beat the butter to 
a cream, and add the yolks of the eg^ well beaten ; beat 
the whites to a froth and add them to the sugar ; mix all 
together ; then put in the flour with the baking powder 
well mixed in; last of all add the milk; flavour with 
essence. 

DELICATE CAKR 

Mn. J. H.MeML 

The whites of twelve eggs, three-quarters of a pound 
of butter, three-quarters of a pound of sugar, one pound 
of flour, two tablespoonsful of milk, two tablespoonsful 
Cook's Friend. Beat the eggs to a froth, beat butter 
and sugar to a cream ; mix the baking powder well with 
the flour, and add milk. If half com starch is used in 
place of flour it will be an improvement, and if for jelly 
cakes bake in square tins, and when cold cut into slices ; 
they are delicious filled with lemon hooey in place of 
jelly. 

BICE CAKB. 
Mn. MaoUa. 

Six eggs, one cup of wliito sugar, two oop« of ground 
rice; beaten thoroughly. 



S36 THE HOME COOS BOOK. 

COEN STAECH CAKES. 

Mrs. MaoUe. 

One cup of flour, one cup of cornstarch, one cup ol 
sugar, half cup of butter, whites of four eggs, half cup of 
sweet milk, one teaspoonful of cream of tartar, half of soda. 

CLOVE CAKE. 

Two eggs, one and one-half cupi of sugar, one cup of 
butter, one cup of chopped raisins, one-half cup of 
sweet milk, two cups of flour, one tablespoon of cloves, 
one-half teaspoon of soda. 

FEUIT CAKE. 

Two pounds of raisins, stoned, two pounds of cur- 
rants, one pound of butter, one pound of sugai, one and 
one-quarter pounds of flour, .ten eggs, one wine glass of 
brandy, one wine glass of wine, one tablespoon of cloves, 
one tablespoon of allspice, two tablespoons of cinnamon, 
one nutmeg, one teaspoon of sweet almond -meats 
blanched and cut in slices, two ounces candied lemon, 
two ounces citron ; a little molasses improves it, nearly 
a teacup ; flour the fruit, using it out of that weighed 
out for the cake ; put a half teaspoonful of soda or one 
teaspoonful of baking powder with it on the fruit ; bake 
three hours, slowly. 

POUND CAKE. 

Ten eggs, one pound of sugar, one pound of butter, one 
pound of flour ; flavour with lemon ; beat the butter and 
sugar together, then add the yolks well beaten, after 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 337 

them the whites ; beat to a stiff froth, then add flour 
HaK a pound of figs and same of almonds sliced makes 
it very nice. 

MAKBLE CAKE. 

White Part. — Whites of seven eggs, two cups of 
white sugar, one cup of butter, one cup of sweet milk, 
four cups of flour, two teaspoonsful of cream of tartar, 
one teaspoon of soda. 

Bbown Part. — Yolks of seven eggs, two cups of brown 
sugar, one cup of molasses, one cup of sour milk, one 
cup of butter, five cups of flour, two tablespoonsful of 
cloves, one nutmeg, one teaspoon and a half of soda. 

PLAIN SPONGE CAKE. 

One egg, one teacup of sugar, one cup of sweet milk, 
two cups and a half of flour, one dessert spoon of butter, 
two teaspoons cream of tartar, one teaspoon of soda, 
and a little salt. Bake fifteen minutes in pans size of 
a breakfast plate. 

COFFEE CAKE. 

One cup of butter, one cup of sugar, one cup of 
molasses, one cup of coffee cold, one cup of currants, 
one teaspoonf ul of soda, one teaspoonful of mixed spices, 
two or four ^ggs, flour to thicken. 

CAKES WITHOUT BUTTER. 

Five eggs well beaten, yolks and whites separately, 
one pound of powdered sugar ; when well mixed let it 



838 THE HOME OOOE BOOK. 

stand an hour, then add one pound of flour, chop the 
mixture in very small cakes on tin plates; any flavour- 
ing may be used. 

COMPOSITION CAKE. * 

Mrs. H. Baird. 

Five cups of flour, two cups of butter, three of biic»«.*^ 
one of milk, five eggs, one teaspoon of soda, two of creiini 
of tartar, fruit as you please, cinnamon, nutmeg and 
clove to taste. 

FEUIT LOAP. 

Mrs. H. Baird. 

One pint of bread sponge, one cup of bravm sugar, 
one cup of molasses, one of butter, half cup of sweet 
milk, one cup of raisins, one of currants, a little lemon 
and citron peel, one tablespoonful of cinnamon, one tea- 
spoon of cloves, one of allspice, two or three eggs. Beat 
eggs, butter and sugar, add all together with Hour 
enough to stiffen as an ordinary fruit cake. 

ORANGE CAKE AS JELLY CAKE. 

Mrs. H. Baird. 

Cake part. — Five eggs, two cups of sugar, two cups 
of flour, half a cup of cold water, one teaspoon of cream 
of tartar, half a teaspoon of soda. Dressing— Use the 
grated rind of one large orange, and the juice ; stiffen 
with the white of one egg and sugar. 



▼ALUABLB R£OIP£S. 839 

GINGEK NUTS. 

Urs. H. Baird. 

One and three-quarter ponnda of symp, one ponnd ol 
moist sugar, one pound of butter, two and three-quarter 
pounds of flour, one and a half ounces of ground ginger, 
one and a half ounces of allspice, one and a half ounces 
of coriander seed, salvolatile size of a bean, a little 
cayenne, flour enough to roll out but not thin, cut with 
a wineglass or roll between your hands into small balls 
and pinch. 

GINGER CAKE. 

Mrs. H. Baird. 

One cup of molasses, half a cup of butter, two-thirds 

of a cup of water, one teaspoon almost full of ginger, 

two teaspoons of soda ; mix in flour enough to let it 

drop off the spoon ; bake in a tin about two inches deep. 

CUP CAKE. 

One cup of butter, two cups of sugar, three cups of 
flour, four eggs, a teaspoonful of soda dissolved in a cup 
of milk, two teaspoonsful of cream of tartar mixed into 
the flour ; flavour with essence of any kind. 
ALMOND CAKE. 

Stir two eggs with half a pound of white sugar till 
very light ; half a pound of unpeeled split almonds, as 
much soda as will lie on the point of a knife, half a 
pound of flour ; roll it out and then put into a fiat tin ; 
brush it over with the yolk of an egg ; bake till a light 
brown ; then cut into long slices ; set them on edge and 
roast them. 



840 THE HOME OOOE BOOS. 

LEMON HONEY. 

Four ounces of butter, one pound of sugar, six eggs, 
leaving out two whites ; grate the rinds of three lemons 
and add the juice. Let all simmer over the fire till it 
becomes of the consistency of honey. Great care must 
be taken that it does not burn. 

FRUIT CAKE. 

One pound of flour, one pound of sugar, three-quar- 
ters of a pound of butter, two pounds raisins, two pounds 
currants, one pound mixed peel, one-quarter pound al- 
monds, two ounces mace, ten eggs, rose water and 
brandy. 

BIETHDAY CAKE. 

One pound and a half of fine sugar, one pound and a 
half of butter, theee pounds and one-half of currants, two 
pounds of flour, one-half pound candied peel, one-half 
pound almonds, two ounces spices, tl;e grated rind of 
three lemons, eighteen eggs, one gill of brandy. Paper 
the hoops, and bake three hours. Ice when cold. 

NELL'S CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

One cup of butter, two of sugar, five eggs, leaving out 
two of the whites, one scant cup of milk, two full tea- 
spoons of baking powder ; mix well in three cups flour ; 
bake in two long shallow tins. Dressing: Beat the whites 
of the two eggs to a stiff froth, add a scant cup and a 
half of sugar ; flavour with vanilla, add six tablespoons 
of grated chocolate ; add the dressing when the cake is 
cold, and cut in diamond slices. 



VALUABLE BECIPE8. 841 

OKANGE CAKE. 

Mrs. S. McMaster. 

Two cups of flour, two cups of sugar, one-haK cup of 
«7ater, two teaspoons of baking powder, yolks of j&ve 
eggs, whites of three ; bake like jelly cake. Dressing — 
Whites of the tsvo eggs, grate the rind of two oranges, 
add the juice, sugar to thicken ; put this between the 
eakes a^d set *^ack in the oven for a minute*. 



DRINKS. 



The bubbling and loud hissing urn, 
Throws up a steaming column; and the cnpa 
That cheer, but not inebriate, wait on each ; 
Bo let us welcome peaceful evening in. 

— C«WPK», 

TEA. 

When the water in the tea-kettle begins to boil, have 
ready a tin tea-steeper ; pour into the tea-steeper just a 
very little of the boiling water, and then put in tea, 
allowing one teaspoon of tea to each person. Pour over 
this boiling water until the steeper is little more than 
half full ; cover tightly and let it stand where it will 
keep hot, but not to boil. Let the tea infuse for ten or 
fifteen minutes, and then pour into the tea urn, adding 
more boiling water, in the proportion of one cup of 
water for every teaspoon of dry tea which has been 
infused. Have boiling water in a water pot, and weaken 
each cup of tea as desired. Do not use water for tea 
that has boiled long. Spiiiig watgr is.best for tea, and 
filtered water next-best. 

TEA A LA RUSSE. 

Pare and slice fresh, juicy lemons ; lay a piece in the 
bottom of each cup, sprinkle with white sugar, and pour 
hot, strong tea over. Or the lemon may be sent around 
in slices with the peel on. No cream is used. 



TALUASLS BXCIPIS. 343 

ICED TEA A LA BUSSK 

To each glass of tea add the juice of half a lemon, fill 
up the glass with pounded ice, and sweeten. 

CHOCOLATE. 

Scrape Baker's chocolate fine, mix with a little cold 
water and the yolks of eggs well beaten ; add this to 
equal parts of milk and water, and boll well, being care- 
ful that it does not bum. Sweeten to ti^te and serve 
hot. 

COFFEK 

Miu Riley. 

The following is a delicious dish either for summer 
breakfast or dessert : Make a strong infusion of mocha 
cofiee ; put it in a porcelain bowl, sugar it properly and 
add to it an equal portion of boiled milk, or one-third 
the quantity of a rich cream. Surround the bowl with 
poimded ice. 

BoASTDs'Q Coffee. — This process should be carefully 
watched and superintended. When the berry crackles 
and becomes crisp it is sufficiently roasted. Once taken 
off the roaster, it should be placed in several thick folds 
of flannel, to preserve the oil and aroma. When cool, 
place it in an air-tight cannister. 

CUBBANT WINE. 

Mrs. J. D. OdelL 

One quart currant juice, three pound* of sugar, suf- 
ficient water to make a gallon. 



844 THS HOMi: COOK BOOE* 

CREA¥ NECTAR. 

Mrs. John Morse. 

Four pounds of white sugar, six quarts of wate?, put 
over a slow fire, milk warm, add whites of two eggs well 
beaten ; bring the wh(de to nearly boiling point; let boil 
and strain immediately ; when cold add six ounces ol 
tartaric acid ; flavour with lemon ; a wineglass to be 
used in a tumbler of water ; add half a teaspoonful of 
baking soda. 

60DA CBEAM. 

M. G. Band. 

Two and one-half pounds white sugar, one-eighth 
pound tartaric acid, both dissolved in one quart of hot 
water ; when cold, add the beaten whites of three eggs, 
stirring well ; bottle for use. Put two large spoons of 
this syrup in a glass of cold water, and stir in it one- 
fourth of a spoon of bicarbonate of soda. Any flavour 
can be put in the syrup. An excellent drink for summev. 

EASPBEBEY ACID. 

Mrs. G. W. Viiktii. 

DisBolve five ounces of tartaric acid in two quarts of 
water ; pour it upon twelve pounds of red raspberries in 
a large bowl ; let it stand twenty-four hours ; strain it 
without pressing ; to a pint of this liquor add one and a 
half pounds of white sugar ; stir until dissolves. Bot- 
tle, but do not cook for several days, when it is ready for 
use. Two or three tablespoons in a glass of ice water 
will make a delicious beverage. 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 845 

BASPBERRY VINEGAR. 

Mrs. W. S. Walker. 

To four quarts red raspberries, put enough vinegar to 
cover, and let them stand twenty-four hours ; scald and 
strain it ; add a pound of sugar to one pint of juice ; 
boil it twenty minutes, and bottle ; it is then ready for 
use and will keep years. To one glass of water add a 
great spoonful. It is much relished by the sick. Very 
nice. 

RASPBERRY VINEGAR. 

Mrs. Joseph B. Leake. 

Fill a jar with red raspberries picked from the stalks. 
Pour in as much vinegar as it will hold. Let it stand 
ten days, then strain it through a sieve. Don't press 
the berries, just let the juice run through. To every 
pint add one pound loaf sugar. Boil it like other syrup ; 
ekim and bottle when cold. 



BLACKBERRY SYRUP. 

Mrs. Bausher. 

To one pint of juice, put one pound of white sugar, 
one-half ounce of powdered cinnamon, one-fourth ounce 
mace, and two teaspoons cloves ; boil all together for 

quarter of an hour, then -strain the - and add to 

each pint a glass of French Lrundj . 



846 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

LEMON SYEUP. 

Mrs. De Forrest* 

Pare off the yellow rind of the lemon, slice the lemon 
and put a layer of lemon and a thick layer of sugar in 
a deep plate ; cover close with a saucer, and set in a 
warm place. This is an excellent remedy for a cold. 

SPLENDID GINGER BEER. 

Mrs. H. L. Bristol. 

Five gallons of water, one-half pound ginger root 
boUed, four pounds of sugar, one-eighth pound of cream 
of tartar, one bottle of essence of lemon, one ounce of 
tartaric acid, one quart of yeast. 

GINGER WINE. 

Mrs. Oliphant. 

One-half pound of cinnamon bark, four ounces of 
pimento, two ounces of mace, three quarters of an ounce 
of capsicum, three quarters of a pound of ginger root, 
five gallons of alcohol; macerate and strain or filter, 
after standing fifteen days. Now make syrup, thirty 
pounds of white sugar, half pound of tartaric acid, one and 
a half pounds of cream tartar, dissolve with warm water, 
clarify with white of two eggs, and add soft water to 
malie forty gallons. Colour with cochineal and let it 
stand six months before use. 

GINGER WINE. 

Mrs. Betts. 

Inobbdients : Ten gallons of water, one pound bruised 



Valuable recipes^ 84t 

ginger, thirty-two pounds raw sugar, ten lemons, ten 
Seville oranges, four pounds of raisins, one-half ounce 
of isinglass. Peel the fruit, and express the juice. 
Boil the water, ginger, and sugar half an hour ; pour it 
boiling hot upon the peel ; add the juice. "When nearly 
cold put in a little yeast spread upon a toast. Let it 
stand three days, stirring it twice a day ; then put it 
into a cask with the raisins and isinglass. Continue 
stirring twice a day for ten days. It must not be stop- 
ped till it has ceased to ferment. Fit for use in three 
months. 

EED CURRANT WINE. 

Mrs. BettB. 

For erery gallon of water talie one gallon of currants 
off the stalks, bruise well and let them stand over night. 
Next morning mash them well with your hands and 
strain through a hair sieve. To every gallon of the 
liquor add four pounds of sugar. Rinse the cask well 
with brandy and strain the liquor again when putting 
in, by which you will see whether the sugar is dissolved. 
Lay the bung lightly on and stop it up in ten days. 

BOSTON CREAM (A SUMMER DRINK). 

Mrs. Kerr. 

!Make a s5Tup of four pounds of white sugar with four 
quarts of water ; boil ; when cold add four ounces of tar- 
taric acid, one and a half ounces of essence of lemon, 
and the whites of six eggs beaten to a stiff froth ; bottle. 
A wineglass of the cream to a tumbler of water, with 
sufficient carbonate of soda to make it effervesce. 



848 THE HOME OOOK B002. 

HOT MULLED WINE. 

Mrs. Bendelari. 

To every pint of wine allow one large cup of water, 
one tablespoon of sugar, half a salt spoon of cloves, hall 
a salt spoon of cinnamon, half a salt spoon of nutmeg. 
First tie your spices in a muslin bag, and put the water 
into a porcelain saucepan with the spices, and when it 
has simmered a few minutes add the wine. 

CHAMPAGNE CUP. 

Mrs. Bendelari. 

One quart bottle of champagne, two bottles of soda 
water, one liqueur glass of brandy, two tablespoons of 
powdered sugar, a few thin strips of cucumber rind ; 
make this just in time for use, and add a large piece of 
ice. 

CLAEET CUP. 

Mrs. Bendelari. 

One quart bottle of claret, one bottle of soda water, 
one lemon cut very thin, four tablespoons of powdered 
sugar, quarter of a teaspoon of grated nutmeg, one 
liqueur glass of brandy, one wine glass of sherry wine. 
Half an hour before it is to be used, put in a large piece 
of ice, so that it may get perfectly cold. 

LEMON SYEUP. 

Mrs. Christopher Patterson. 

Seven pounds of loaf sugar, three quarts of water, 
four ounces of citric acid, one drachm of oil of lemon. 



VALUABLE BECIPES. 349 

Dissolve acid in warm water ; mix ; don't put the acid 
in a brass kettle; when quite cold put in the oil of 
lemon and bottle. 

GINGER LIQUEUR. 

Mrs. Christopher Patterson. 

One gallon of strong malt whiskey, four pounds of 
lump sugar dissolved in one pint of boiling water, five 
ounces of bitter almonds, five ounces of sweet almonds, 
five ounces of bruised ginger, the rind of six lemons ; 
mix all in a jar ; in five or six days filter and bottle. 

ESSENCE OF GINGER. 

Mrs. Christopher Patterson. 

Infuse four ounces of well bruised ginger, and an 
ounce of lemon peel sliced thin in a pint and a half of 
strong rectified spirits (of brandy) ; let it be closely 
stopped and shaken every day. 

RED CURRANT CORDIAL. 

Mrs. Spence. 

To two quarts of red currants, put one quart of 
whiskey; let it stand twenty-four hours, then bruise and 
strain through a flannel bag. To every two quarts of 
this liquor, add one pound of loaf sugar, and quarter of 
a pound of ginger well bruised and boiled ; let the whole 
stand to settle, then strain or filter; bottle and cork, 
seal the corks tightly. 

N. B. — It is an improvement to have half red raspberry 
juice if the flavour is liked. The above is fit for use in 
a month. 



550 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

WHITE CUEEANT COEDIAIi. 

Mrs. Spence. 

To every quart of white currants bruised, add one 
quart of best whiskey, the rind of a fresh lemon pared 
very thin, let it stand for two days, then strain or filter. 
To the above add one pound of loaf sugar, quarter of an 
ounce of the best ginger, and juice of the lemon. Bottle 
and seal ; it will be lit for use in a month, and the longer 
it is kept the better it is. 

CHEREY WHISKEY. 

Mrs. Spence. 

Take eight quarts of fine ripe cherries ; put them into 
a jar, then pour over them six quarts of either good whis- 
key or brandy ; let it stand for a month, then take out 
the fruit, bruise it in a mortar, put it back into the liquor, 
and let it stand another month ; strain off the liquor, 
and to every quart add three-quarters of a pound of loaf 
sugar made into a syrup ; pour boiling hot into the cold 
liquor ; let it stand to settle and cool ; when quite cold 
bottle and cork well. Excellent, and improves by keep- 
ing. ^ 

BLACK CUEEANT COEDIAL. 

Mrs. Spence. 

To every four quarts of black currants, picked from 
the stems and lightly bruised, add one gallon of the best 
whiskey; let it remain four months, shaking the jar 
occasionally ; then drain off the liquor and strain ; add 



VALUABLE BECIPES. 851 

three pounds of loaf sugar and a quarter of a pound of 
best cloves, slightly bruised ; bottle well, and seal. 

GINGER COEBIAL. 

To one pound of picked currants, red or black, add 
one quart of whiskey, one ounce of bruised ginger ; put 
in a stone jar and let it stand for twenty-four or thirty- 
six hours ; strain through a flannel bag, and add half a 
pound of sugar ; when it is all melted, bottle. 

CHERRY CORDIAL. 

To six pounds of cherries add three pounds of sugar 
and one gallon of whiskey. Shake the jar often for the 
first three weeks, then bottle. 

LEMON SYRUP. 

Pour six quarts of boiling water on five pounds oi 
white sugar, one and a half ounces of tartaric acid, and 
a little whole ginger ; let stand till cold ; then add one 
small bottle of essence of lemon. Strain and bottle. 

CREAM NECTAR. 

Mrs. Spence. 

Dissolve two pounds of crlmned sugar in three quarts 
of water ; boil down to two quarts ; drop in the white 
of an egg while boiling ; then strain, and put in i|^' tar- 
taric acid ; when cold drop in the lemon to your taste ; 
then bottle and cork. Shake two or three times a day. 



B53 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

HOP BEEE. 

Mrs. Dickiasou. 

One handful of hops, boil an hour, strain, and add 
one pint of molasses, and enough water to make two 
gallons. When milk-warm, add one cup or cake of 
yeast ; let it stand over night ; skim and pour it off from 
he yeast carefully; add one tablespoon of wintergreen,. 
and bottle for use. 



MISCELLANEOUS. 



LIME WATER. 

Mrs. E. B. Lynde. 



One of the most useful agents of household economy 
if rightly understood, is lime water. Its mode of prepa- 
ration is as follows : Put a stone of fresh unslacked 
lime about the size of a half-peck measure into a large 
stone jar or unpainted pail, and pour over it slowly and 
carefully, (so as not to slacken too rapidly,) a teakettle 
full (four gallons,) of hot water, and stir thoroughly ; 
let it settle, and then stir again two or three times in 
twenty-four hours. Then bottle carefuUy, aU that can 
be poured off in a clear and limpid state. 

Uses. — It is often sold by druggists as a remedy for 
children's summer complaints, a teaspoon being a dose 
in a cup of milk, and when diarrhoea is caused by acid- 
ity of the stomach, it is an excellent remedy, and when 
put into milk gives no unpleasant taste, but rather im- 
proves the flavour. ' 

When put into milk that might curdle when heated, 
it will prevent its so doing, and can then be used for 
puddings and pies. A little stirred into cream or milk, 
after a hot day or night, will prevent its turning when 
used for tea or coffee. 

It is unequalled in cleansing bottles or small milk 
vessels, or babies' nursing bottles, as it sweetens and 



854 THE HOME OOOE BOOS. 

purifies without leaving an unpleasant odour or flavour. 

A cupful, or even more, mixed in the sponge of bread 

or cakes made over night, will prevent it from souring. 

PRESERVING AUTUMN LEAVES. 

Mrs. C. H. Wheeler. 

These may be easily preserved and retain their natu- 
ral tints, or nearly so, by either of the following methods: 
As they are gathered they may be laid between the 
leaves of a magazine until the book is full, and left with 
a light weight upon them until the moisture of the 
leaves has been absorbed ; two or three thicknesses of 
paper should intervene between the leaves. If the leaves 
are large or in clusters, take newspapers, lay them on a 
shelf and use in the same manner as above. Then dip 
the leaves into melted wax (such as is used for moulding 
fruits, etc.) into which you will have to put a few drops 
of turpentine and lay upon newspapers to harden per- 
fectly. This will make the leaves pliable and natural, 
and gives sufficient gloss. Great care should be taken 
that the wax is of right temperature. This can be 
ascertained by the first leaf which is dipped in. Draw 
out gently over the pan both sides of the leaf and hold 
it up by the stem. If the wax is too hot the leaf will 
shrivel — if too cool it will harden in lumps on the leaf. 

Another method is to iron each leaf with a middling 
hot iron until the moisture is all out of them. Are best 
without varnish. 

SKELETON LEAVES. 
Boil the leaves in equal parts of rain water and soft 
spap rmtil yoij can separate the pulp from the skin; 



VALUABLE RECIPE 3. 855 

take them out into clear water ; lay the leaf to be cleaned 
on glass, the upper side of the leaf next to the glass ; 
then with a tooth brush remove all pulp and skin, turn 
the leaf and repeat the process ; when thoroughly done 
put the leaf to bleach in this solution : One pound sal 
Boda, dissolved in five pints rain water ; one-half pound 
chloride of lime, in three pints water ; allow twenty-four 
hours for the latter to dissolve. Strain out the sediment, 
and pour out the clear solution of lime into the solution 
of sal soda. The result will be a thick butter-milk solu- 
tion, otherwise the lime was not strong enough. Filter 
this until it is perfectly clear. For leaves, use one part 
of solution to one part of water ; for ferns, use the solu- 
tion full strength. When perfectly white, remove to 
clear water ; let stand for several hours, changing two 
or three times ; the last water should be a little blue ; 
float out on paper, press in books when nearly dry. In 
mounting use mucilage made of five parts of gum arable, 
three parts white sugar, two parts of starch ; add a very 
little water, boil and stir until thick and white. 



TO EESTOIiE FBOZEN PLANTS. 

B. E. Enapp. 

As soon as discovered, pour cold water over the plant 
wetting every leaf thoroughly. In a few moments it 
will be crystallized with a thick coating of ice. In this 
state place it in the dark, carefully covered with a news- 
paper. The ice will slowly melt, leaving the plant in 
its original state of health. 



856 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

FOE CRYSTALLIZING GRASS. 

Mrs. Ludlam. 

Take one and one-half pounds of rock alum, pour on 
three pints of boiling water ; when quite cool put into a 
wide-mouthed vessel, hang in your grassep, a few at a 
time. Do not let them get too heavy, or the stems will 
not support them. You may again heat alum and add 
more grasses. By adding a little colouring it will give 
variety. 

CAMPHOR ICE. 

Mrs. A. M. 

One ounce of lard, one ounce of spermaceti, one ounce 
of camphor, one ounce of almond oil, one-half cake of 
white wax ; melt and turn into moulds. 

CAMPHOR ICE. 

Mrs. Bartlett. 

One-half ounce each of camphor gum and white wax, 
spermaceti and sweet oil ; melt slowly the hard ingre- 
dients and then add the oil. 

COLD CREAf. 

Mrs. Anna Marble. 

Four ounces sweet almond oil, two ounces of rose 
water, two ounces of white wax, two ounces of cocoa 
butter, two of spermaceti ; put a bowl in a pan of boiling 
water; cut the spermaceti, white wax, and cocoa butter 
in small pieces ; put them in the bowl, also the oil and 
rose water. When melted, stir contents until cold. 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 857 

TO BEAUTIFY TEETH. 

Dissolve two ounces of borax in three pints of boiling 
water, and before it is cold add one teaspoon of spirits 
of camphor ; bottle it for use. A teaspoon of this with 
an equal quantity of tepid water. 

HAIR TONIC. 

Mrs. A. M. 

One-half ounce sugar of lead, one-half ounce of lac 
sulphur, one quart of rose water, six tablespoons castor 
oil. 

FOR CLEANING HAIRBRUSHES. 

Mrs. C. H. Wheeler. 

Use spirits of ammonia and hot water ; wash them 
well and shake the water out, drying on a coarse towel ; 
they will look white and clean as new. Little or no 
soap is needed. 

TO CLEAN HAIRBRUSHES. 

E. A. Forsyth. 

Do not use soap, but put a tablespoon of hartshorn 
into the water, having it only tepid, and dip up and 
down until clean ; then dry with the brushes down, and 
they will be like new ones. If you do not have ammo- 
nia, use soda ; a teaspoonful dissolved in the water will 
do very well. 

JAPANESE CLEANSING CREAM. 

One-fourth pound of white castile soap, three ounces 
of ammonia, one of ether, one of spirits of wine, one oi 



858 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

glycerine ; cut the soap fine and dissolve in one quart of 
rain water ; then add four quarts rain water, and then 
all the ingredients. For cleansing silks. 

SALT OP LEMON TO TAKE OUT IKON EUST. 

Mrs. P. 

One ounce of cream tartar, one ounce of salt of sorrel. 
STAECH POLISH. 

Mrs. 0. Patterson. 

Take one ounce of spermaceti and one ounce of white 
wax, melt and run it into a thin cake on a plate. A 
piece the size of a quarter dollar added to a quart of 
prepared starch gives a beautiful lustre to the clothes 
and prevents the iron from sticking. 

COUGH MIXTURE. 

Mrs. C. Patterson. 

Two ounces of gum arable, one ounce of paregorio 
elixir, two ounces of sugar candy, juice of one lemon ; 
mix with six glasses of hot water. One wineglass to be 
taken morning, noon, and night. 

TO KEEP EGGS FOR WINTER USB. 

Mrs. 0. Patterson. 

Take a pint of unslacked lime, and a pint of salt ; 
put them into a pail of water ; the eggs must be well 
covered with the mixture. 



VALUABLE EECIPEfl. 859 

BECEIPT FOB COLD. 

Misi J. B. Biley. 

One pound of liverwort put into four quarts of water 
and boiled down to one quart ; add, while warm, a quar- 
ter pound of ball liquorice and a quarter pound of loaf 
sugar ; when cool add a half pint of gin. Dose — half a 
large wineglass half an hour before each meal. 

FOR CLOTHES THAT FADE. 
One ounce sugar of lead in a pail of rain water. Soak 

OVox Light. 

TO WASH CALICO. 

Mrs. Edward Ely. 

Blue caUcoes or muslins will retain their colour if one 
small teaspoon of sugar of lead is put into a pail of water 
and the articles washed in water. 

BLACK CALICOES. 

Wash black percales or calicoes as usual, rinse in 
water with a strong solution of salt. This will prevent 
black from running, and also colours. 

TO WASH WOOLLEN BLANKETS. 

Mrs. J. A. Packard. 

Dissolve soap enough to make a good suds in boiling 
water, add a tablespoon of aqua ammonia ; when scald- 
ing hot, turn over your i>lankets. If convenient, use a 



860 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

pounder, or any way to work thoroughly through tho 
suds without rubbing on a board. Einse well in hot 
water. There is usually soap enough from the first suds 
to make the second soft ; if not, aad a little soap and 
ammonia ; and after being put through the wringer, let 
two persons, standing opposite, pull them into shape ; 
dry in the sun. White flannels may be washed in tha 
same way without skrinking. 



TO WASH WOOLLEN. 

E. A. Forsyth. 

To every pail of water, add one tablespoon of ammo- 
nia, and the same of beef gall ; wash out quickly and 
rinse in warm water, adding a very little beef gall to the 
water. This will remove spots from carpets, making 
them look fresh. 

TO WASH CAEPETS. 

E. A. Forsyth. 

Spread the carpet where you can use a brush ; take 
Lrish potatoes and scrape them into a pail or tub of 
water and let them stand over night, using one peck to 
clean a large carpet ; two pails of water is sufficient to 
let them stand in, and you can add more when ready to 
use ; add two ounces of beef gall and use with a brush, 
as to scrub a floor ; the particles of potato will help 
cleanse ; when dry, brush with a broom or stiff brush. 



▼ALTTABL- T.T.aiES. 861 

WASHING FLUID. 

Mrs. A. P. Inglehart. 

Nine tablespoons unslacked lime, two pounds of sal 

ioda, four quarts water; let this simmer half an hour, 

then bottle up. Take a small teacup to a boiler of 

water 

WASHING FLUID. 

Mrs. A. W. D. 

One pound sal soda, one pound potash, each dissolved 
in one gallon of water (separately); then mix together 
and bottle. 

EXCELLENT FAMILY SOAP. 

Mrs. F. Enapp. 

iNoaEDiENTS. — One box of lye, five pounds of grease, 
one pound of resin, one and a half gallons of soft water ; 
make in an iron pot. When the water boils, put in the 
lye ; when this is dissolved add the grease ; stir till all 
is melted ; then add one pound of resin gradually, and 
boil for an hour and a half ; keep stirring with a stick, 
and add hot water to keep up the original quantity ; 
pour into wet tins, and let it stand for twenty-four hours ; 
cut into bars and keep in a dry warm place for a month. 

TO MAKE GOOD STAECH. 

Mn. D. 

Mix the starcb f^ith cold water, add boiling water 
until it thickens, then add dessert spoon of sugar, and 
a small piece of butter. Makes a stiff and glossy finish 
equal to laundry. 



862 THi: HOME COOK BOOK. 

AN EXCELLENT HAED SOAP. 

Mrs. Eate Jolmson. 

Pour twelve quarts soft boiling water on two and one- 
half pounds of unslacked lime ; dissolve five pounds sal 
soda in twelve quarts soft hot water ; then mix and let 
them remain from twelve to twenty -four hours. Pour 
off all the clear fluid, being careful not to allow any of 
the sediment to run off; boil three and one-half pounds 
clean grease and three or four ounces of rosin in the 
above lye till the grease disappears ; pour into a box 
and let it stand a day to stiffen and then cut in bars. 
It is as well to put the lime in all the water and then 
add the soda. After pouring off the fluid, add two or 
three gallons of water and let it stand with the lime 
and soda dregs a day or two. This makes an excellent 
washing fluid to boil or soak the clothes in, with one 
pint in a boiler of \\^terr 

CLEANING SILVER 

Mrs. 0. L. Parker. 

Never put a particle of soap about your silver if you 
would have it retain its original lustre. When it wants 
polish, take a piece of soft leather and whiting and rub 
hard. The proprietor of one of the oldest silver estab- 
lishments in the city of Philadelphia says that house- 
keepers ruin their silver in soap suds, as it makes it 
look like pewter. 

POLISH FOE ZINC OR TIN. 

Mrs. Thos. A. Hill. 

To three pints of water, add one ounce of nitric aci^ 



VALUABLE BEOIPES. 863 

two onnces of emery, and eight ounces of pumice stone; 
shake well together. Any druggist will fill it for fifteen 
cents. 

STOVE POLISH. 

Mrs. 0. L. Parker. 

Stove lustre, when mixed with turpentine and applied 
in the usual manner, is blacker, more glossy, and more 
durable than when mixed with any other liquid. The 
turpentine prevents rust, and when put on an old rusty 
stove will make it look as well as new. 

TO EXTRACT INK. 

To extract ink from cotton, silk, and woollen goods, 
saturate the spot with spirits of turpentine and let it 
remain several hours; then rub ifejto^een the hands. 
It will crumble away without injutmg either the colour 
or texture of the article. 

TO TAICE INK OUT OF LINEN. 

Dip the spotted part in pure tallow, melted ; then wash 
out the tallow and the ink wiU disappear. 

PATENT SOAP. 

Mrs. Ludlam. 

Five pounds hard soap, one quart lye, one-fourth 
ounce pearl-ash ; place on the fire and stir well until the 
soap is dissolved ; add one-half pint spirits of turpen- 
tine, one g-'U spirits hartshorn, and stir well. It ig 
then fit for use. The finest muslin may be put to soak 



864 VEE EOMB OOOE BOOK. 

in this snds, and if left for a time wiL become beauti- 
fully white. A small portion of soap put into a little 
hot water, and a flannel cloth will save hard labour and 
a brush in cleaning paint. One who ha^s tried it thinks 
it worth the price of the book. 

FOE BLEACHING COTTON CLOTE. 

Mrs. C. H. Wheeler. 

One pound chloride of lime, dissolved and strained ; 
put in two or three pails of water ; thoroughly wet the 
cloth and leave it in over night ; then rinse well in two 
waters. This will also take out mildew, and is equally 
good for brown cotton or white that has become yellow 
from any cause, and will not injure the fabric 

TO REMOVE TAR. 

Rub well with cle^ lard, afterwards wash with soap 
and warm water. Apply this to either hands or clothing, 

JAVELLE WATER FOR MILDEW STAINS. 

One pound of chloride of lime, two of washing soda, 

two gallons of soft water ; pour one gallon of boiling 

water to the ingredients to dissolve them, adding the 
cold water when dissolved. 

COLOURING COTTON CARPET RAGS. 

Mrs. S. I. Parker. 

Blue. — For five pounds of cloth, take five ounces of 
copperas, with two pails of water in a tin or copper 
boiler ; set it over the fire till the copperas is dissolved 
and it begins to heat, then put in the cloth, stirring it 
frequently till it boils, one-half or three-fourths of an 



VALUABLE EECIPES. 365 

hour ; then remove the cloth where it can drain ; pour 
away the copperas water and take two ounces of prus- 
siate of potash in about two pails of water in the same 
vessel ; when it is well dissolved and hot, put in the 
cloth from the copperas water, stirring it thoroughly 
till it boils, one-half an hour, then remove the cloth ; 
add (with care and caution, on account of the spattering 
which ensues) one tablespoon of oil of vitriol, and stir it 
well in the dye ; replace the cloth, stirring it briskly till 
it has boiled one-half an hour. Should be well rinsed 
and washed in clear water to prevent the dye from mak- 
ing it tender after colouring. 

Yellow. — For five pounds of cloth dissolve one-half 
pound of sugar of lead in a tub of warm water and 
twelve ounces of bichromate of potash in another tub of 
cold water ; soak, rinse, and wring the cloth in the lead 
water first, then in the other, and return from one to the 
other, till the right shade of colour is obtained. 

Oranoe. — Dip the yellow coloured cloth into strong 
lime water ; if it should not turn, boil it ; rinse all well. 

Green. — Put your blue cloth in the yellow dye in the 
same manner as for colouring yellow. Old calico will 
take a darker shade of blue or green in the same dye 
with the white cloth. 

TO PRESEKVB EGGS. 

Mrt. G. Wyllie. 

One pint salt, two pints fresh lime, three gallons water; 
mix well and put in eggs without cracking the shell ; 
they must be kept covered with the brine. 



366 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

TO PRESERVE EQGa 

sirs. Midgley. 

Take a patent pailful of spring water, pour it into a 
Btone jar, take one pound of lime, one pint of Liverpool 
salt ; let it stand for three days, stir it every day, tlien 
pour it off, and put in your eggs. 

HOW TO MAKE UP SHIRT BOSOMS. 

Take two ounces of fine gum arable powder ; put it 
in a pitcher and pour into it a pint or more of boiling 
water, according to the degree of strength you require, 
and then having covered it let it stand all night; in the 
morning pour it carefully from the dregs into a clean 
bottle, cork and keep it for use. A tablespoonful of 
gum stirred into a pint of starch made in the usual man- 
ner win give to lawn, either white or printed, a look of 
newness when nothing else can restore them after they 
have been washed. 

IRONING. 

To keep starch from sticking to irons rub the irons 
with a little piece of wax or sperm. 

' GREASE ERASER. 

Mn. Oliphani. 

Benzine, alcohol, ether, equal parts ; mix ; apply with 
sponge (patting the spot) ; put a piece of blotting paper 
on each side and iron with a hot flat iron. 



VALUABLE RBCIPES. 367 

TO KEEP GLASS JARS FROM BREAKING 

when pouring in boiling fruit, wrap a cold wet cloth 
lound each jar. 

TO PREVENT RED ANTS. 

Put one pint of tar in an earthen vessel, pour on it 
fewo quarts of boiling hot water, and place it in year 
closet. 

CLEANING MARBLE. 

Mrs. Gray. 

Dissolve a large lump of Spanish whiting in water 
which has previously dissolved a teaspoon of washing 
soda, take only sufficient water to moisten the whiting, 
and it wiU become a paste ; with a flannel cloth rub the 
marble well, leaving it on for a while and repeating the 
process two or three times, if necessary. Wash off with 
soap and water, then dry the marble well and polish 
with a soft duster. 

FURNITURE POLISH. 

No. 1. Shellac varnish, linseed oil, and spirits of 
wine, equal parts. No. fj. Linseed oil, alcohol, equal 
parts. No. 3. Lineecd oil five ounces, turpentine two 
ounces, oil of yilTiol one-half ounce. 

CLEANING WHITE PAINT. 

Mrs. C. Beliord. 

Spirits of ammonia, used in sufficient quantity to 
BOiben the water and ordinary hard soap, will make the 



368 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

paint look white and clean with half the effort of any 
other method I have ever tried. Care should be taken 
not to have too much ammonia, or the paint will be 
injured. 

HARD SOAP. 

Mrs. Mary A. Odell. 

Six pounds of clean grease, six pounds of sal soda, 
three pounds of stone lime ; slake the Hme and put it 
jnto four gallons of soft water ; add the sal soda, and 
when dissolved let it settle. Pour off the water into an 
iron kettle, and add the grease melted, and boil. If the 
Boap does not come after boiling a few minutes, add 
more 'soft water till it is of the consistency of honey. 
Wet a tub and pour the hot soap into it. When cold, 
cut into pieces and lay it away to dry. Always make 
Boao in an iron kettle. 



THE SICK ROOM. 



Egg Gruel. — Boil eggs from one to three hours tinti] 
hard enough to grate ; then boil new milk and thicken 
Willi the egg, and add a little salt. Excellent in case of 
nausea. — Mrs. Bartlett. 

Gritel for Infants. — To make a gruel for infanta 
suffering from marasmus, take one pint of goat's milk 
and the yolks of two eggs boiled sufficiently hard to 
reduce to an impalpable powder ; add a pint of boiling 
water, a little salt or sugar, and administer by a nursing 
bottle. — Dr. Small. 

Beep Tea. — To one pound of lean beef add one and 
one-half tumblers of cold water ; cut the beef in small 
pieces, cover and let it boil slowly for ten minutes, and 
add a little salt after it is boiled. Excellent. 

Beep Jelly por Invalids. — Three small onions, three 
small or one and one-half large carrots, a few whole 
cloves and black pepper, one small teaspoon of sugar, 
one slice of ham, two calf's feet, one and a half pounds 
of beef. Put in the onions and other ingredients in 
succession. Place the ham on top, then the calf's feet, 
and lastly the beef ; no water ; put on the side of the 
range, and let it stand xmtil reduced to a soft mass, then 
add a quart of water and let it boil one hour ; strain and 
let stand until cold, when take off the fat. Use by dis- 
solving a little in hot water. — Mrs. J. A. Ellis. 



370 VALUABLE RECIPES. 

Panada. — Two thick slices of stale bread half an inch 
in thickness ; cut off the crust, toast them a nice brown, 
cut them into squares of two inches in size, lay them in 
a bowl, sprinkle a little salt over them and pour on a 
pint of boiling water. 

Fever and Ague. — Four ounces galangal root in a 
quart of gin, steeped in a warm place ; take often. — Mas. 
E. A. Sibley. 

For a Caked Breast. — A Highland Eemedy. — 
Bake large potatoes, put two or more in a woollen 
stocking ; crush them soft and apply to the breast aa 
hot as can be borne ; repeat constantly^ till reUeved. — 
Mrs. G. B. Wyllib. 

To Cure a Sting of Bee or Wasp. — Mix common 
earth with water to about the consistency of mud. 
Apply at once. — Mrs. Story. 

An Indian Eemedy for a Caked Breast or Swollen 
Glands. — Gather mullein leaves, saturate in hot|vinegar, 
and apply to the skin very hot ; cover with flannel and 
keep repeating till cured. — JVIrs. G. B. Wyllib. 



MEDICINAL RECEIPTS. 



GRA'bTDMOrKIS'S SlLVE FOR EvERYTHINO. — TwO pOUndi 

toi rosin and half a teacup of mutton tallow aftei 
it is hard, half as much heeswax, and half an 
ounce of camphor gum ; put all together into an old 
kettle, and let it dissolve and just come to a boil, stir- 
ring with a stick ; then take half a pail of warm water, 
jusL the chill off, pour it in and stir carefully until you 
can get your hands around it. Two persons must each 
take half and pull like candy until quite white and brit- 
tle ; put a little grease on your hands to prevent stick- 
ing, and keep them wet all the time. "Wet the table, 
roll out the salve, and cut it with a knife. Keep it in a 
cool place. — Mrs. Gardner. 

Cholera Remedy. — Mix in a small bottle equal parts 
of tincture of opium (laudanum), rhubarb, capsicum 
(red pepper, double strength), camphor, and spirits of 
nitre, essence of peppermint double strength. Shake 
well, and cork tight. Dose : From five to thirty drops 
every fifteen minutes. Dose for children, from two to 
ten drops. — Mrs. Gardner. 

Fio Paste foe Cokstipa'i'ion. — One-half pound of 
good figs chopped fine, one-half pint of molasses, two 
ounces powdered senna leaves, one drachm fine powder- 
ed coriander seed, one drachm of fine powdered card- 
amom seed. Put the molasses on stove and let it come to 



S72 VALUABLE RBOIPES. 

a boil, then stir in all the rest and bring to a boil again. 
A teaspoonful once in a while is a dose. It will kerp, 
when covered, for a year. — Mrs. Gardner. 

Cure for Boils. — Isaiah, xxxviii. 21. — Go tJwu and 
do likewise. 

For Canker Sore Mouth. — Burn a corn cob and 
apply the ashes two or three times a day. 

Cure for Corns. — The strongest acetic acid, applied 
night and morning, will cure hard and soft corns in a 
week. 

BiNG Worm. — Put a penny into a tablespoon of vine- 
gar ; let it remain until it becomes green, and wash 
the ring worm with this two or three times a day. 

Cure for Chilblains. — Place red hot coals in a ves ■ 
sel, and throw upon them a handful^of corn meal ; hold 
the feet in the dense smoke, renewing the coals and 
meal, till the pain is relieved. This has been known to 
make very marked cures when all other remedies have 
failed. 

Cure for Eheumatism and Bilious Headache. — 
Finest Turkey rhubarb, half an ounce, carbonate 
magnesia, one ounce ; mix intimately ; keep well corked 
in glass bottle. Dose : One teaspoonful, in milk and 
sugar, the Giat thing in the morning ; repeat till cured. 
Tried with success. — F. A. K. 

Toothache. — ^At a meeting of the London Medical 
Society Dr. Blake, a distinguished physician, said that 
he was able to cure the most desperate case of toothache, 



THE HOME OOOE BOOS. 873 

tinless the disease was connected with rheumatism, by 
the application of the following remedy : Alum reduced 
to an impalpable powder, two drachms ; nitrous spirit of 
ether, seven drachms ; mix and apply to the tooth. 
Tried with success. 

Grease prom Cloth. — Grease can be removed from 
cloth by a paste of fuller's earth and turpentine. This 
should be rubbed on the fabric until the turpentine has 
evaporated and a white powder produced. The latter 
can be brushed off, and the grease will have disappeared. 

To Mend China. — Take a very thick solution of gum 
arable in water, and stir into it plaster of Paris until the 
mixture becomes of a proper consistency. Apply it with 
a brush to the fractured edges of the china, and stick 
them together. In three days the articles cannot be 
broken in the same place. The whiteness of the cement 
renders it doubly valuable. 

How TO Cure a Bone Felon. — Of all painful things 
can there be any so excruciatingly painful as a bone 
felon ? We know of none that the flesh is heir to, and, 
as this malady is quite frequent and the subject of much 
earnest consideration, we give the latest recipe for its 
cure, which is given by that high authority, the London 
Lancet : — " As soon as the pulsation which indicates the 
disease is felt, put directly over the spot a fly blister, 
about the size of your thumb nail, and let it remain for 
six hours, at the expiration of which time, directly under 
the surface of the blister, may be seen the felon, which 
can be instantly taken out with the point of a needle or 
a lancet." 



374 VALUABLE RECIPES. 

How TO GET RID OF Flies. — A clergyman, writing from 
Ireland, says : — " For three years I have lived in town, 
and during that time my sitting room has been free 
from flies, three or four only walking about my break- 
fast table, while all my neighbours' rooms were crowded. 
1 often congratulated myself on my escape, but never 
knew the reason of it until two days ago. I then had 
occasion to move my goods to another house, while I 
remained on for two days longer. Among other things 
moved were two boxes of geraniums and calceolarias, 
which stood in my window, the latter always being open 
to its full extent top and bottom. The boxes were not 
gone half an hour before my room was as full of flies 
as those around me. This, to me, is a new discovery, 
and perhaps it may serve to encourage others in that 
which is always a source of pleasure, and which now 
proves also to be a source of comfort, viz., window 
gardening." 

Smallpox Eemedy. — The following remedy a friend 
tried in Ohio in a case of confluent smallpox, when the 
doctor had little hope of saving the patient, and it saved 
the woman's life. The remedy is sure in scarlet fever. 
" I herewith append a recipe' which has been used to 
my own knowledge in a hundred cases. It will prevent 
or cure the small pox, even though the pittings "are 
filling. When Jenner discovered cow pox in England, 
the world of science hurled an avalanche of fame upon 
his head, and when the most scientific school of medi- 
cine in the world (that of Paris), published this panacea 
for the small pox, it passed unheeded. It is unfailing 



THE HOME OOOE BOOK. 875 

AS fate, and conquers in every instance. It is harmless 
when taken by a well person. It will also cure scarlet 
fever. Take sulphate of zinc, one grain; fox glove 
(digitalis) one grain ; half a teaspoon of water. When 
thoroughly mixed, add four ounces water. Take a 
spoonful every hour, and either disease will disappear 
in twelve hours. For a child, smaller doses, according 
to age." 

For HYDROpnoBii. — Franklin Dyer, a highly respec- 
table farmer of Galena, Kent county, Md., gives the fol- 
lowing as a sure cure for the bite of a mad dog. He 
has tested it with most gratifying results : Elecampane 
is a plant well known and found in many gardens. Im- 
mediately after being bitten, take one and a half ounces 
of the root of the plant, the green root is preferable. 
The dried, to be found in drug stores, will answer; 
bruise it, put it in a pint of fresh milk, boil down to half 
a pint, strain, and when cold drink it, fasting at least 
six hours afterwards. The next morning repeat the 
dose, fasting, using two ounces of the root. On the 
third morning, take another dose prepared as the last, 
and this will be sufficient. After each dose, nothing to 
be eaten for at least sis hours. I had a son who was 
bitten by a mad dog eighteedj^ears ago, and four other 
children in the neighbourhood were also bitten. They 
took the above, and are now alive and well. I have 
known many who were cured. It is supposed that the 
root contains a principle, which, being taken up by the 
blood in its circulation, counteracts or neutralizes the 
deadly effect of the virus of hydrophobia. I feel so 



376 VALUABLE RECIPEi. 

much confidence in this Bimple remedy that I am vrill- 
ing you should give my name in connection with this 
statement. 

For Felon. — Take common rock salt, as used for salt- 
ing down pork or beef, dry in an oven, then pound it 
fine and mix with spirits of turpentine in equal parts ; 
put it in a rag and wrap it around the parts affected ; 
as it gets dry put on more, and in twenty-four hours 
you are cured. The felon will be dead. No harm to 
try it, as I have with success. 

Cure for Neuralgia. — A friend who suffered horrible 
pains from neuralgia, hearing of a noted physician in 
Germany who invariably cured the disease, went to him, 
and was permanently cured after a short sojourn. The 
doctor gave him the remedy, which was nothing but a 
poultice and tea made from our common field thistle. 
The leaves are macerated and used as a poultice on the 
parts affected, while a small quantity of the same is 
boiled down to the proportion of a quart to a pint, and 
a small wine glass of the decoction drank before each 
meal. Our friend says he has never known it to fail of 
giving relief, while in almost every case it has effected a 
cure. God gave herbs for the healing of the nations. 

Tincture of Iodine on Corns. — Dr. Bajis states that 
corns may be rapidly curld by the apphcation of the 
Tincture of Iodine ; the corn disappearing in the course 
of a few days, if touched with the Tincture several times 
a day. If the corn be situated between the toes, it 
should be covered with a piece of linen steeped in a 
mixture of the Tincture and Glycerine. — Mrs. C. 
Patterson. 



THE HOME COOK BOOK. 877 

Flannels for Fomentation. — Fold the flannel the 
size to fit over a pot of boiling water, and coyer with 
a lid ; in a few minutes it will be hotter than if wrung 
out of boiling water and yet dry at the comers ; roll it 
up covered, and convey quickly to the patient. — J. K. 

GiLMOUE. 

For Hoarseness. — Squeeze the juice of half a lemon 
in a pint bowl, add loaf sugar (two tablespoons), one 
full teaspoon of glycerine, and one full tablespoon of 
whiskey ; pour over this boiling hot water to nearly fill 
the bowl, and drink hot just before going to bed. 

For Sore Throat. — Cut slices of salt pork or fat 
bacon ; simmer a few moments in hot vinegar, and 
apply to throat as hot as possible. When this is taken 
off, as the throat is relieved, put around a bandage of 
soft flannel. A gargle of equal parts of borax and alum, 
dissolved in water, is also excellent. To be used fre- 
quently. 

Healing Lotion. — One ounce glycerine, one ounce 
rose-water, ten drops carbolic acid. This preparation 
prevents and cures chapping of the skin, and at the 
same time bleaches it. It is also excellent for sore lips 
and gums. I consider it an indispensable adjunct to 
the toilet table. — Mrs. A. Yocuii. 

To STOP Bleeding. — A handful of flour bound on tho 
cut. — Mrs. A. M. 

To Prevent Contagion from Eruptive Diseases. — 
Keep constantly, in plates or saucers, sliced raw onions 
in the sick room, if possible. As fast as they become 

25 



$78 VALUABLE BEOIPEd. 

discoloured, replace by fresh ones. Daring any epi* 
demic of skin diseases that are eruptive, onions, except 
those taken fresh from the earth, are unsafe, as they 
are peculiarly sensitive to disease. 

To Eestoee from Stroke op Lightning. — Shower 
with cold water for two hours ; if the patient does not 
show signs of life, put salt in the water, and continue to 
shower an hour longer. 

For Toothache. — Of powdered alum and fine salt, 
equal quantities; apply to the tooth and it will give 
speedy relief. — Mrs. Baetlett. 

For Headache. — Pour a few drops of ether on one- 
half ounce of gum camphor and pulverize ; add to this 
an equal quantity of carbonate ammonia pulverized ; 
add twenty drops peppermint ; mix and put in an open- 
mouthed bottle and cork. — Mrs. A. M. Gibbs. 

Salve for Ohilblains. — Fry out nicely a little mutton 
tallow; into this while melted, and after it is nicely 
strained, put an equal quantity of coal oil ; stir well 
together while it is cooling. 

To Remove Discolouration from Bruises. — Apply a 
cloth wrung out in very hot water, and renew frequently 
until the pain ceases. Or, apply raw beefsteak. 

Curb for Wasp Sting. — Apply a poultice of saleratus 
water and flour, and bind on the sting. Apply slices of 
raw onion for a bee sting. 

Cure for Summer Complaint. — Two ounces tincture 
. rhubarb, one of paregoric, one-half of essence of pepper- 



THE HOME COOE BOOK. 879 

mint, one-half of essence of annis, one-half of prepared 
chalk. Dose for adult, one teaspoon in a little water ; 
take as often as needed. — Mrs. L. Bradley. 

The best Deodorizes. — Use bromo-chloralum in the 
proportion of one tablespoon to eight of soft water ; dip 
cloths in this solution and hang in the rooms ; it will 
purify sick rooms of any foul smells. The surface of 
anything may be purified by washing well and then rub- 
bing over with a weakened solution of bromo-chloralum. 
A weak solution is excellent to rinse the mouth with 
often, when from any cause the breath is offensive. It 
is also an excellent wash for sores and wounds that have 
an offensive odour. 

To Destroy Bed Bugs, Moths, and Other Vermin. 
— Dissolve alum in hot water, making a very strong 
solution ; apply to furniture or crevices in the walls with 
paint brush. This is sure destruction to those noxious 
vermin, and invaluable because easily obtained, is 
perfectly safe to use, and leaves no unpleasant traces 
behind. When you suspect moths have lodged in the 
borders of carpets, wet the edges of the carpets with a 
strong solution ; whenever it reaches them, it is certain 
death. 

How TO Select Meats. — An English journal gives 
the following hints on this subject : — "Good and whole- 
some meat should be neither of a pale rosy or pink 
colour, nor of a deep purple. The first denotes the 
diseased condition, the last proves the animal has died 
a natural death. Good meat has more of a marble look, 



880 VALrABLE RECIPES. 

in consequence of the branching of the veins which sur- 
round the adipose cells. The fat, especially of the inner 
organs, is alway firm and suety, and never moist, while 
in general the fat from diseased cattle is flabby and 
watery, and more often resembles jelly or boiled parch- 
ment. Wholesome meat will always show itself firm 
and elastic to the touch, and exhibit no dampness, while 
diseased meat will appear sof^ and moist, in fact often 
more wet, so that the liquid substances run out of the 
blood when pressed hard. Good meat has very little 
smell, while unsound meat has a disagreeable, cadaver- 
ous smell, and diffuses a certain medicinal odour. This 
can be distinctly proved by cutting the meat through 
with a knife and smelling the blade, or pouring warm 
water over it. Lastly, bad meat has the peculiarity 
that it shrinks considerably in the boiling ; wholesome 
meat rather swells, and does not lose an ounce in weight. 



n 



' 



BILLS OF FARE. 




In the accompanying Bills of Faro, the arrangement of the varionl 
sonrsea will be suggested by the form in which they are given : 

MENU. 

BREAKFAST— No. 1. 

Fine Hominy. Buttered Toast. 

Beefsteak. 

French Eolla. Potatoes a la Creme. 

Backwheat Cakes. 

Tea. Coffee. Chocolate. 

BREAKFAST— No. 2. 

Broiled Spring Chickens. 

Home Bolls. Irish Potatoes. 

Scrambled Eggs. Fried Oysters. 

Eye and Indian Loaf. 

Coffee. Tea. Chocolate. 

BREAKFAST— No. 3. 

White Fish. Potatoes. 

Moffins. 
Fried Ham. Egg Omelette. 

Coffee. Tea. Chocolate. 

LUNCHES. 

LUNCH PARTY— No. 1. 

Beef Tea, served in small porcelain cnps. 

Cold Chicken and Oyster and other forms of Croquettes. 

Chicken Salad. Minced Ham Sandwiches. 

E scalloped Oysters. 

Tutti Frutti. Chocolate Cream. 

Cake Basket of Mixed Cake. 

Mulled Chocolate. 

Mixed Pickles. Biscuits, etc. 

Ice Cream and Charlottes can either be added or snbstitnted. Fof 

twenty guests, allow one gallon. 



882 BILLS OP PARE. 

LUNCH PARTY— No. 2. 

Oyster Pie. BoUed Partridge. Cold Ham 

Sweet Pickles. Sandwiches. 

Found and Fruit Cake. Pyramids of Wine Jelly. 

Blanc Mange. Snow Jelly. 

Pineapple Flummery. 

Eisflea. Macaroons. Ice Cream. 

DINNERS. 

DINNER— No. 1. 

FIRST OOUBSE. 

Oyster Soup, with Celery, 

SECOND COUESE. 

Boast Turkey. 
Croquettes of Rice. Sweet and Irish Potatoes. 

THIBD COtJBSE. 

Quail on Toast. 

Vegetables. Pickles. Escalloped TomatoM. 

Macaroni. Jelly. 

DESSEBT. 

Almond Pudding. 

Mince Pie. Lemon Pie. 

Cheese. Fruits. Nuta. 

Coffee. 

DINNER— No. 2. 

FIBST COUBSB. 

Raw Oysters. 
White and Brown Soup. 

SECOND COUESE. 

BQiled White Fish, with Sauce and Sliced Lemon, 

IHIBD COUESE. 

Boast Beef. 

FOUBTH OOUBSB. 

Boast Turkey. Ducks. 

Vegetables in season. Croquettes of Eice or Hominy, 

Cranberry Sauce. Currant Jelly. 

DX33EBT. 

Cream Cnstard. Lemon Pie. 

Fruits. Nuts. 

Coffee. 



fHE HOME C00£ BOOS. 383 

TEA. 

TEA— No. 1. 

Tea. Coffee. Chocolate, 

Biscnits. 

Oyster Sandwiches. Chicken Salad; 

Cold Tongue. 

Cake and Preserres. 

Ice Cream and Cake later in the evening. 

TEA— No. 2. 

Tea, Coffee, or Chocolate. 

Escalloped or Fried Oysters. Muffins. 

Sliced Turkey and Ham. 

Cold Biscuits. 

Sardines and Sliced Lemons. 

Thin slices of Bread, rolled. Sliced Pressed Meftic. 

Cake in yariety. 

SUPPERS. 

SUPPER— No. 1. 

Cold Roast Turkey. Chicken Slilad. 

Quail on Toast. 

Ham Croquettes. Fricasseed Oysters. 

Charlotte Basse. Vanilla Cream. 

Chocolate Cake. Cocoanut Cake. 

Mixed Cakes. 

Fruit. 

Coffee and Chocolate. 

SUPPER— No. 2. 

Cold Roast Partridges or Ducks. 

Oyster Patties. Cold Boiled Ham. Dressed Celery. 

Oysters or Minced Ham Sandwiches. 

Baw Oysters. Chicken Croquettes or Fricasseed Oystcn, 

Wine Jelly. Ice Cream. Biscuit Glace. Cakes, 

Fruits. Chocolate. Coffee. 

PickleB and Biscnits. 



884 THE HOME COOZ BOOK. 

ALLOWANCE OF SUPPLIES FOR AN ENTERTAINMENT. 

In inviting guests, it is safe to calculate that out of one hundred 
and fifty, but two-thirds of the number will be present. If five 
hundred are invited, not more than three hundred can be counted 
upon as accepting. 

Allow one quart of oysters to every three persons present. Five 
chickens (or, what is better, a ten-pound turkey, boiled and 
minced), and fifteen heads of celery, are enough for chicken salad 
for fifty guests ; one gallon of ice cream to every twenty guests ; 
one hundred and thirty sandwiches for one hundred guests-: and 
six to ten quarts of wine jelly for each hundred. For a company 
of twenty, allow three chickens for salad ; one hundred pickled 
oysters ; two moulds of Charlotte Russe ; one gallon of cream ; 
and four dozen biscuits. 



COLD LUNCHES FOR WASHING DAYS, OR OTHER DAYS 
OF EXTRA LABOUR. 

Lunch No. 1. — Cold corn beef, nicely sliced ; baked potatoes ; 
bread, butter, and pickles. Dessert — mince pie and cheese. 

Lunch No. 2. — Chicken pie ; baked potatoes ; rolled bread or 
biscuit. Dessert — cake and custard. 

Lunch No. 3. — First course : Raw oysters, with lemon and 
crackers. Second course : Cold veal, with jelly and Saratoga pota- 
toes ; bread and butter. Dessert — cherry pie with cheese. 

Lunch No. 4. — Casserole of fish, with mushroom catsup ; bread 
and butter. Dessert — pie with cheese. 

ECONOMICAL DINNERS. 

Sunday. — Roast beef, potatoes, and greens. Dessert — pudding 
or pie, cheese. 

Monday. — Hashed beef, potatoes, and bread pudding. 

Tuesday. — Broiled beef, vegetables, apple pudding. 

Wednesday. — Boiled pork, beans, potatoes, greens, and pie or 
rice pudding. 

Thursday. — Roast or broiled fowl, cabbage, potatoes, lemon pie, 
cheese. 

Friday. — Fish, potato croquettes, escalloped tomatoes, pudding. 

Saturday. — A la mode beef, potatoes, vegetables, suet pudding 
ejad miuce pie, cheese. 






"1-7 ^A^ H-rfii^ >^-i 







1^£U^^ 



) 



v^ 



Vi% V; 



^- 



