•3. 



>£4tj 



Dessert, 

# Supper* 



Mrs. H. Xj. Kiii^rlit 




IVISON & PERRY, . 

Wholesale and Retail Dealers in 

ooks, Stationery, 

SCHOOL BOOKS, 

Blank Books, Pocket Books, Etc. 

Q7 Genesee St., Auburn, N. Y. 

Watches, Jewelry, 

Solid Silver Spoons and Forks, Silver Plated 

Spoons, Forks, Knives, Tea Sets, Cake 

Baskets, Fruit Dishes, Casters, 

Ice Pitchers, Etc., Etc. 

CLOCKS. 

JIll Styles a^d Pips of Spectacles a\d Eye Glasses. 

Don't buy of Pedlars claiming to sell our specs. We employ no travelers. 

Old Gold and Silver bought or made over into New Jewelry. 

Watches, Clocks and Jewelry Repaired. 

Hyde & Bettys, 

92 Genesee St Spwarrl RWl a,,^ ,^ ]sj > y 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS, 



®fpnL ®apgry(ft:$fc. 
Shelf i 



TTX T ITP.1> ST4TFS (\V kWTTtlCA. 






F. L GRISWOLD & CO., 



3* 



MANUFACTURING 



CLOTHIERS 



jN^W GfOO$)0 ©^ILT, 



AND SELECTED FROM THE 



Best Production of the World 



Qojlutyjlnd Prices Guaranteed. 



Con^e kqd $ee fot^ Youf$elve$. 



87 & 89 Genesee St., 



AUBURN, N. Y. 



SHERWOOD & GOLDEN, 



IMPORTERS AND DEALERS IN 



CHINA, CROCKER!, GLASS WARE, 



gilvei' ftkted Wki'e, ^kqdy G^ood^, 

Table Cutlery,- 

Lamps, Chandeliers, &c, 

Nos. 67&69 GeneseeSt.,Cor. Broad, 

UTICA, N.Y. . 



Our English Stone China Dinner Sets of 

125 Pieces for SlO. 
Every Piece Warranted ! Is a Great Bargain ! 



SEND FOR LIST OF PRICES. 



Ward &Tompkins, 



— DEALERS IN- 



CARPETS, 

Oil Cloths, Mattings, 

Upholstery, Shades, Lace Curtains, 

CORNICE, FIXTURES, &c. 

137 GENESEE STREET, 

f v b s -t V omp d k IN , Auburn, N. Y. 

>f. I<. W&I^SjY & do., 





AND DEALERS IN 



Patent Medicines, Paints, Oils and Varnishes, 

Chemicals and Toilet Articles, with a full line of Sundries as found in a 
large and complete Drug Stock, to which the attention of the public is invited. 

1 1 7 Genesee Street, Cor. State, 
AUBU RN, N. Y. 



ZDZEZLsTTISTIR/'Z" ! 



G. W. TRIPP, 

Dental Parlors, 

\26yi Genesee St., Tripp Block, 

AUBURN, N.Y., 



is the place to find the Best Tooth Powders, Mouth 

Washes and Tooth Brushes, also Tripp's Patent 

Screen, the best in the world. 

G. W. TRIPP. 



IgfAny information in regard to my Patent 
Screen may for the present be addressed to 

G. W. TRIPP, 

126^ Genesee St., Tripp Block, 

AUBURN, N. Y. 



MRS.W. H. HOTCHKISS, 

Ladies purnishing Goods, 

EMBROIDERIES, YARNS, WORSTEDS & 
MATERIALS FOR FANCY WORK. 

Stamping; Neatly Done. 

No. 118 Genesee St., Auburn, N. Y. 

DUNNING& COMPANY, 

Wholesale Hardware, 

Iron, Nails and Metals, White Lead and O^ 

AUBURN, N*. Y. 



STEEL'S DRUG STORE. 

THE OLDEST AND THE BEST. 
Over Fifty Years in the Same Building. 



To our friends and the public generally, in city and county, we would say 
YOU CAN AT ALL TIMES BUY 

PURE DRUGS AND MEDICINES, 

Perfumery, Fancy and Toilet Articles, Trusses, Surgical 
Instruments, Rubber Goods for Family and Phy- 
sicians' use, and all articles usually found 
in a well appointed Drug Store, at 

REASONABLE PRICES. 

JOSEPH N. STEEL, 

[Successor to Richard Steel & Co.] 

6 1 Genesee Street, Auburn, N. Y. 

All of Dr. Richard Steel's Preparations and Formulas kept in stock. 



THIS IS THE PLACE. 



W. S. COE, 

[Successor to Geo. P. Stone.] 

WHOLESALE & RETAIL 

GROCER, 

No. 3 State-st., 

AUBURN, N.Y. 



ESTABLISHED-1821. 



CHAS. CARPENTER, 

THE HATTER, 

101 Genesee Street. 

All The Latest Styles 



IN 



Hats^Caps, 

STRAW GOODS, 

Hammocks, &c. 

I^kdie^' hi\& Cfyildtf ei^ SSn% 

FANCY ROBES, 

BUFFALO ROBES, 

LAP RUGS. 

101 Genesee St., - - AUBURN, N. T; 



FINE GOODS AT POPULAR PRICES !! 



HENRY D. WILKIN, 



DEALER IN 



JL^adies Jp urnishing& J^ ancy^jj-oods, 
94 Genesee St., Auburn, N. Y. 

Ladies when in need of any of the following goods, 
do not fail to examine our assortment and prices. 

FINE MUSLIN AND MERINO UNDERWEAR, 

HAMBURGH LACES, 

CORSETS, GLOVES, 

HOSIERY, RIBBONS, 

Ties, Kuching, Germantown Zephyr, Shetland, 

Saxony, Embroidery, and Filling Silk, 

>tkterikl£ fof tfkqdy Wofk, &d 

STAMPING DONE .ON SHORT NOTICE, 

Agent for Domestic Patterns. 



INDEX 



Breakfast, 1 5—25 

Dessert, 25-48 

Supper, ....... 48-71 

Sundries, - .... 71-87 




OIEILTTS BUYS 
ONE POUND 

OF PURE CANE SUGAR 

CANDY 



Assorted Flavors of your own selecting, put 
up. in a box, at 

( 

EXCHANGE ST., OPP. POST OFFICE. 

Headquarters for Mathews' Imperial Sponge Cake and other Specialties 

SAGAR& BOWMAN, 

Druggists »* Pharmacists, 

AUBURN, N. Y. 

USE OUR PURE CREAM TARTAR, 

BAKING SODA, 
AND OUR OWN BAKING POWDER, 

Warranted Pure and Fresh. 

PURE GROUND SPICES. 

Bamily Receipts and Prescriptions accurately prepared at lowest prices. 



Breakfast, 
Dessert, 

# Supper. 

' TWO HUNDRED AND SEVENTY-FIVE 

Practical Recipes. 



The Result of Long Experience, and 
Thoroughly Tested, 

-"- / 

Mrs. H. L. Knight, o 



Price, Fifty Cents. On receipt of subscription price, books will be sent 
to any part of the United States free of Postage. 



r 

Entered according to'Act of Congress, in the year 1881, by Mrs. H. L. Knight, 
in the office of the Librarian of Congress, at Washington. 

AUBURN, N.Y.: 
PUBLISHED BY THE AUTHOR, 

(At Messrs. Knapp & Peck's.) 
l88l. 



> 



Ly 



on, Elliott & Bloom, 

85 Genesee Street, Auburn, N. Y., 
—DEALERS IN— 

Staple ahp Fancy Df[I Goods, 

AT ONE PRICE AND FOR CASH, 

Are the most extensive dealers in Dry Goods in Cay- 
uga County. At their extensive establish- 
ment may always be found a large 
and attractive assortment. 

I<yo:q, J^lliott & Bloorq 

Offer at all times attractive bargains in Cloaks, 
Shawls, Dress Goods, Silks, Hosiery, No- 
tions, Table Linens. White Goods, 
Blankets and Woolen Yarns. 

L(yoi), ^lliott & Bloom 

Are the Auburn Agents for E. Butterick & Co.'s 
Patterns and Publications. Also, sole agents 
for the celebrated brand of Excelsior Woolen 
Yarns, and dealers at wholesale and re- 
tail in the best make of German- 
town and Saxony Woolen 
Yarns manufactured. 

I<yon, Sjlliott j& rjloorq 

Carry on Dress Making and Cloak Manufacturing 
in all its branches, under the superin- 
tendence of Miss C. Conroy. 

Your Patronage is Respectfully Solicited. 

LYON, ELLIOTT & BLOOM, 

85 Genesee-St, Auburn, N. Y. 



BREAKFAST 



NEW YORK BREAKFAST CAKES. 

One quart flour, one pint milk, one teaspoon soda, two tea- 
spoons cream tartar, one tablespoon sugar, one tablespoon but- 
ter, one egg. 

Use the Propeller egg beater. 

BALTIMORE GEMS. 

Two cups flour, one cup milk, two tablespoons melted butter, 
one tablespoon sugar, three and one-half teaspoons Cleveland's 
Superior Baking Powder, a little salt. Bake in hot gem pans, 
and in a quick oven. 

BREAKFAST PUFFS. 

Three teacups flour, two cups milk, a little salt, three tea- 
spoons Cleveland's Superior Baking Powder. Bake in well 
heated gem pans in a hot oven. 

POP OVERS. 

Three cups flour, three cups milk, three eggs, a little salt. 
Beat the eggs separately, add the flour and a little of the milk. 
Beat together for fifteen minutes, then add the rest of the milk, 
and put them in hot gem pans in a very hot oven. They should 
bake ten minutes. 

Use the Propeller egg beater. 



16 BREAKFAST, DESSERT AND SUPPER. 



CORN MUFFINS. 

Four eggs, two cups milk, one and one-half cups flour, one 
and one-half cups corn meal, two-thirds cup sugar, one-half cup 
butter, three teaspoons cream tartar, one and one-half teaspoons 
soda. Mix well together. Bake in gem pans or patty pans. 

GRAHAM MUFFINS. 

Three cups Graham flour, one cup white flour, one quart 
milk, one-half cup yeast, one tablespoon of lard or butter, one 
teaspoon salt, two tablespoons sugar. Set to rise over night, 
and bake in muffin rings about twenty minutes. 

GRAHAM CAKES. 

One quart sour milk, two-thirds cup butter, one-half cup mo- 
lasses, two eggs, one-half tablespoon of soda, one tablespoon 
cream tartar. Thicken with Graham flour, as for Johnny cake. 

MUFFINS. 

One pint sweet milk, tablespoon of butter, two tablespoons 
yeast, two eggs, one and one-half pints flour, a little salt. 

MUFFINS. 

Two cups milk, two cups flour, two teaspoons cream tartar, 
one teaspoon soda, three eggs. 

MUFFINS. 

One quart sweet milk, lukewarm, one cup melted butter, one 
cup sugar, one small teacup yeast, eight eggs, whites beaten 
separately, flour for stiff batter. This makes a large amount, 



BREAKFAST, DESSERT AND SUPPER. 17 



INDIAN AND FLOUR GEMS. 

One cup sifted meal, three cups flour, three teaspoons 
Cleveland's Superior Baking Powder sifted in the flour, one and 
one-half cups sweet milk, four eggs, one-half cup sugar. Bake 
in a hot oven. This makes two square tins. 

MASSELON SALLY LUN. 

One-half cup butter, three-fourths cup sugar, beaten well 
together, four eggs beaten separately, one and one-half cups 
milk, one teaspoon soda, two teaspoons cream tartar, three cups 
sifted flour, one cup Indian meal, a little salt. 

CORN CAKE. 

One pint Indian meal, one pint sweet milk, two tablespoons 
melted butter, two eggs, two tablespoons sugar, one teaspoon 
cream tartar, one-half teaspoon soda, 

DELICIOUS GEMS. 

Take two tablespoons sugar, two eggs, two cups flour, one 
tablespoon Indian meal, one cup sweet milk, two teaspoons 
Cleveland's Superior Baking Powder, a little salt. Heat gem 
pans very hot, and bake in a quick oven fifteen minutes. 

BUCKWHEAT CAKES. 

For an ordinary sized family take a four quart tin pail with 
a cover, put about half full buckwheat, one tablespoon Indian 
meal, one tablespoon wheat flour; one-half cup potato yeast, 
one teaspoon salt, enough warm water to make a stiff batter. 
Beat it well, and in the morning add one tablespoon molasses 
and a little soda dissolved in a cup boiling water. In putting 
in soda you must vary the quantity according to the taste of 
the cakes. 



18 BREAKFAST, DESSERT AND SUPPER. 



FLOUE GRIDDLE CAKES. 

One quart of butter milk or sour milk, one dessert spoon 
melted butter, one egg, one teaspoon soda dissolved in hot 
water, a little salt. You may need more soda. This depends 
upon the condition of the milk. Add flour enough to make a 
batter, not very stiff. If wanted for breakfast, mix night be- 
fore ; if for supper, mix early in the morning. If is a mistake 
some make in stirring these cakes and baking at once. 

INDIAN MEAL GRIDDLE CAKES. 

One quart Indian meal. Scald well with boiling, water until 
it is about the thickness of hasty pudding. One pint wheat 
flour, one level teaspoon soda dissolved in a tablespoon hot 
water, two well beaten eggs, a little salt. Thin then with sweet 
milk. 

WAFFLES. 

One pint cream, one pint milk, four eggs, a little salt. Stir 
the batter as stiff as sponge cake. Beat the whites of eggs sep- 
arately and stir in last. 

SCOTCH BREAD. 

Two cups dough, one-half cup butter, one egg, one teaspoon 
soda dissolved in warm water, two tablespoons sugar heaped. 
Let it rise three or four hours. 

RAISED WAFFLES. 

Stir into one quart of lukewarm milk enough flour to make 
a stiff batter. Sift in gradually to prevent its being lumpy. 
One tablespoon melted butter, one-half teacup yeast, one-half 
teaspoon soda, one teaspoon salt. Fill your waffle irons with 
the batter when light. 



BREAKFAST, DESSERT AND SUPPER. 19 

BAKER'S ENGLISH BREAKFAST COCOA IN TIN 

CANS. 

Take milk and boil it. For three cups take a heaping 
tablespoon of the cocoa dissolved in some of the boiling milk. 
Add sugar, and boil ten or fifteen minutes, then take the yolk 
of one egg and beat in a little cold milk, and add to the cocoa 
after removing from the fire. Beat the white of the egg to a 
froth with sugar, and put on each cup after it is poured out. 

EGGS AND CHOPPED POTATOES. 

Take ten or twelve cold boiled potatoes, chop them fine, 
heat a spider very hot, and put in a piece butter size of an 
egg. Add the potatoes, salt a*little and stir frequently. When 
well heated through turn in five eggs beaten very light. Stir 
rapidly for five or six minutes, and serve on a hot platter. 

POTATOES FRIED IN CURLS. 

Peel large potatoes, and slice in half inch slices ; then cut 
them round and round as you pare apples. Drop each curl in 
ice cold water for a few minutes, then drain dry in a towel and 
fry in very hot lard until they are crisped, but hardly browned. 
Take out upon a sieve, and sprinkle a little salt over them 
They make a pretty supper dish. 

CODFISH BALLS. 

Two cups mashed potatoes, one cup codfish chopped fine, 
whites of three eggs. Soak the fish over night, and in the 
morning scald it. Pick out the bones and chop. Beat the 
whites of three eggs light and mix. Drop a small tablespoon 
at a time in boiling lard, and fry quickly. 



20 BREAKFAST, DESSERT AND SUPPER. 



BROILED CHICKENS. 

After having washed the chickens, split down the back bone 
and steam them for one hour. After having done this, place 
them on a gridiron over a hot bed of coals. When done, put 
them on a warm platter with plenty butter, pepper and salt. In 
broiling this way they cook more evenly and are better than to 
broil without steaming. Garnish chickens with parsley or hard 
boiled eggs sliced around the platter. 

BAKED CHICKENS. 

After having washed chickens, split down the back bone. 
Put them in a dripping pan with half cup butter and a few 
tablespoons water. Cover them until nearly done ; then take 
off cover. Have a very hot oven and brown them. The taste 
is similar to broiled chickens. Many prefer them cooked in 
this way to broiling. 

POACHED EGGS ON TOAST. 

Break one or two eggs into a dish at a time, taking care that 
the yolks are not broken, butter your skillet, fill with boiling 
water. Then pour eggs in gently, two or three at a time. In 
the meantime, have a platter of toast moistened with hot water 
and melted butter. Place the eggs on the toast, and on the 
eggs put a small piece of butter, a little salt and pepper. 

BROILED BEEFSTEAK. 

Pat either porter house or a sirloin steak on a gridiron over 
hot coals ; turn often ; cook nicely ; season with butter, pepper 
and salt. 



BREAKFAST, DESSERT AND SUPPER. 21 



FRIED HAM AND EGGS. 

If the ham is very salt, pour some cold water on it and boil 
.up once; turn water off ; put ham in and fry quickly. When 
done, place it on a platter. Pour on ham whatever remains in 
the skillet. Rinse all the salt out of the skillet, and put in 
fresh lard. When hot, drop carefully from a saucer a few eggs 
at a time. When done, garnish the ham by placing the eggs 
around them. 

CODFISH FRITTERS. 

One pound codfish, three eggs, one tablespoon flour, one 
coffee cup milk. Soak the fish over night. In the morning 
pour the water off. Put on fresh water, and simmer it on the 
back of the stove until soft. It must not boil, as it will make 
it tough. Take the bones out and chop it. After this is done, 
wet the flour with the milk. Stir the eggs in, and fry in hot 
lard. Drop a large spoonful in at a time, and fry a nice brown. 

FRIED BEEFSTEAK. 

Have your skillet very hot ; butter it well ; put steak in ; 
cover tight after turning it ; cover again as soon as possible. 
When done place it on a hot platter. Then put a little water 
in the skillet you fried the steak in with a good sized piece of 
butter, a little flour, salt and pepper. Pour this gravy over 
the steak, and serve while hot. 

BROILED HAM AND EGGS. 

Broil thin slices of ham over hot coals, turning often. Then 
place on a heated platter, and spread well with butter. Poach 
some fresh eggs, and place around the ham with a piece butter 
on each egg, and a little salt and pepper. This is a very deli- 
cate and delicious way to cook ham and eggs. 



22 BREAKFAST, DESSERT AND SUPPER. 



OMELET. 

Beat three eggs very light, separately, a little pepper and salt, 
three tablespoons milk. Butter the griddle or frying pan well 
and bake it. When done, double it one-half over, and serve it 
on a hot platter. 

HANCOCK CORN CAKES. 

Two coffee cups Indian meal, % one coffee cup flour, two and 
one-half coffee cups milk, three eggs, one tablespoon melted 
butter, one tablespoon sugar, one teaspoon soda dissolved in a 
little hot water, two teaspoons cream tartar sifted with the 
flour and added the last thing. Beat eggs separately. A little 
salt. 

VEAL TURNOVERS. 

Chop one quart bowl of cold veal exceedingly fine. Add to 
it half of the amount of cold boiled ham chopped. Mix them 
together with one raw egg well beaten, a little milk and and 
one thick slice of bread crumbs. Season highly with pepper 
and a little salt. Take some nice puff paste, roll it out thin, 
and cut with a large cake cutter. Put a tablespoon of the meat 
on one side and turn it over. Bake quickty. 

POTATO SNOW FLAKES. 

Mash potatoes in the usual manner, putting in butter, milk 
and salt. Then rub them through a colander. Put them in a 
vegetable dish, and place them in a heater, as they are apt to 
cool a little in putting them through a colander. 

STEAMED INDIAN BREAD. 

Three cups sweet milk, three cups butter milk, three cups 
meal, two cups flour, one teaspoon salt, -two teaspoons soda. 
Put in a buttered pan and steam three hours. 



BREAKFAST, DESSERT AND SUPPER. 23 



POTATO PUFFS. 

Two cups mashed potatoes, stir in two tablespoons of melted 
batter. Beat to a cream. Add two eggs, beaten separate^, 
one cup milk, a little salt. Pour in a deep dish, and bake in a 
quick oven a nice brown. 

POTATO YEAST. 

Cook and mash ten peeled potatoes. Pour on one quart 
boiling water. Stir well together. Add one coffee cup sugar. 
Let it stand a few minutes. Pour on a scant quart cold water. 
Stir in one pint yeast, and set it in a moderately warm place to 
rise. When well fermented, put into a stone jug. Cork very 
tightly. Keep enough for another batch. One cup will make 
one large loaf of bread or two small ones. 

•excellent BREAD. 

Three medium sized potatoes boiled and mashed. Rub 
them through the colander with the water they are boiled in. 
Two-thirds teacup home-made yeast, or one-half cup baker's 
yeast. Make one quart altogether. Add enough flour to 
make a stiff sponge. A little salt in the morning. Kneed it 
out, adding more flour. Do- not put in more than you can help. 

Use the best flour. This makes three good sized loaves. 

« 

GRAHAM BREAD. 

One-half cup Indian meal, one cup molasses, one teaspoon 
soda, one pint hot water, one pint bread sponge, one quart 
Graham flour. Scald the meal, and then add the rest with a 
little salt. This bread must be stirred with a spoon quite stiff. 
Let it rise until very light, and bake slowly. 



24 BREAKFAST, DESSERT AND SUPPER. 



VIENNA BREAD. 

For six small loaves take three pints tepid water or sweet 
milk, three and one-half quarts flour, one pint baker's yeast. 
Mix thoroughly, and set in a warm place. When light, whicli 
will be in about three hours, take one and one-half ounces salt 
dissolved in one pint water, two ounces butter. Thoroughly 
kneed it into the sponge, using flour enough to make the dough 
stiff to mould. Let it stand until risen. Mould into loaves, 
and bake in a moderately warm oven. 

CRACKERS. 

One coffee cup bread dough. When very light roll it out, 
and spread on it a piece of butter and lard together as large 
as a goose egg. Dridge a little flour over it, and fold it up and 
pound with a rolling pin for fifteen minutes. After this is done 
roll out very thin, and cut out with a large cajce cutter. Stamp 
with a clock key, which should be kept for this purpose. Bake 
in a hot oven quickly, then put them in the heater to dry ard 
crisp. Leave them there for several hours. 



ERRATA. 

Page 29— In Lemon Pudding, "the eggs' 1 should read "eight 

eggs." 
Page 29— In Suet Pudding, use 3£ cups of flour. 
Page 43— " Shad " apple pie should read " Sham/ 
Page 51— Gold Cake. See Silver Cake, page 53. 
Page 56— In Coffee (Jake, use two eggs. 
Page 6 6— In Adelma Cake use one cup of flour instead of 1* 

cups. 
Page 72— In Apple Snow, " snow " apples should read sour. 
p a g e 82—" Pickle Lilly " should read " Piccalilly." 



DESSERT. 



POTATO PUDDING. 

One pint boiled milk, one cup flour, one-half tablespoon 
melted butter, two eggs beaten separately very light, one table- 
spoon sugar, three potatoes boiled and mashed with a little salt. 
Mix well together, and bake one hour. The potatoes must not 
be very large. Wine or brandy sauce. 

Use the Propeller egg beater. 

PLUM PUDDING. 

One pound bread crumbs, one pound sugar, one pound flour, 
one-half pound suet, two pounds currants, two pounds raisins, 
one-fourth pound citron, ten eggs, salt, one-fourth ounce cloves, 
one-half ounce mace, one-fourth ounce cinnamon, wine glass of 
brandy or wine. Soak the bread crumbs in enough sweet milk 
to cover. Steam from three to four hours. Tie strong cloth 
over the steamer, and do not take off until you serve. Wine 
sauce. 

JELLY PUDDING. 

One teacup tapioca, three pints water. Wash -the tapioca 
and soak in the water it is to be cooked in, over night ; in the 
morning put in a farina kettle and cook until done ; add a little 
salt, half teacup sugar, one tumbler currant jelly. Wet a 
mould and pour the pudding in when cold. Serve with sweet- 
ened cream. Mix well together before putting in the mould. 



26 BREAKFAST, DESSERT AND SUPPER 



PKUNE PUDDING. 

Soak over night one-half pound prunes, cook them next day 
in water until soft, then chop fine with a knife, sweeten to 
taste and cook prunes and sugar together until they are a little 
thick, then beat the whites of five eggs very stiff and add, 
reserving enough to put on the top in little rocks, place in the 
oven just long enough to brown the egg rocks. 

CRACKER PLUM PUDDING. 

Ten Boston crackers, one quart milk, four eggs, three-quarters 
pound chopped raisins. Soak the crackers in the milk over 
night, beat the eggs very light, mix all together and bake one 
hour. When about half cold eat with wine sauce. 

CUSTARD PIE. 

Beat together the yolks of three eggs, two tablespoons sugar, 
one tablespoon flour, two cups milk, one teaspoon vanilla. 
Line a pie plate with a rich crust and pour in the mixture and 
bake. Beat whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, add two table- 
spoons sugar ; when the pie is done, spread over the top. Set 
in oven and brown. 

CHEAP PLUM PUDDING. 

One teacup chopped suet, one teacup chopped raisins, one 
teacup molasses or sugar, one cup sour milk, three cups flour, 
one tea spoon soda, one tablespoon ground cinnamon, one-half 
tablespoon "cloves, a little salt, and steam three hours. 

PUFF PUDDING. 

One cup flour, one cup milk, one egg, a little salt. Bake 
about twenty minutes. 



BREAKFAST, DESSERT AND SUPPER. 27 



PORK PUDDING. 

One cup sweet milk, one cup molasses, one cup salt pork, 
chopped fine, one cup chopped raisins, three cups flour, one tea- 
spoon soda. Steam two hours. Eat with hard sauce. 

VICTORIA PUDDING. 

Strain one quart stewed apples through a sieve, take the 
yolks of six eggs, one ounce butter, two teaspoons heaping full 
of flour. Sweeten it to taste. Line the dish with a rich paste, 
bake one-half hour, beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, 
stir in one-half pound pulverized sugar. Put the frosting on 
the pudding and return it to the oven for a few minutes to 
brown. 

ICE PUDDING. 

Put one-half package of gelatine in a cup cold water, let it 
stand one or two hours, then add one pint boiling water, two 
cups sugar, the juice of two lemons, beat the whites of two eggs 
to a stiff froth, and after straining the gelatine, sugar and lem- 
ons, add the beaten whites of the eggs. Beat it well into the 
mixture, wet a mo aid and pour it into it. 

Eat with a rich custard. 

ORANGE PUDDING. 

Take five oranges, remove the peels and cut into the thinnest 
possible slices. Place in a glass dish and scatter over them 
two tablespoons white sugar. Make a custard of one pint milk, 
one tablespoon of corn starch, rub fine with cold milk and then 
stir in boiling milk, and the yolks of three eggs, add one-third 
teacup sugar. When cold pour it over the oranges. Beat the 
whites of three eggs, and one-third cup pulverized sugar to a 
froth and pour over it. If preferred it can be made in an earth- 
en dish and the whites browned slightly in the oven. 



28 BREAKFAST, DESSERT AND SUPPER. 



GENERAL GRANT PUDDING. 

Eight large spoons tapioca put to soak over night in water 
enough to cover it In the morning boil two quarts milk, take 
the yolks of six eggs and two cups of sugar, a little salt, beat with 
the tapioca and stir them into the milk. Take the latter off 
the fire and stir gradually that it may not curdle, boil about 
ten minutes, flavor to taste. Pour it into your pudding dish 
and when cool make frosting with the whites of the eggs and 
spread it on and brown in a quick oven. Two whites of eggs 
are better put in the pudding. Use the other two for frosting- 
If you have not a farina kettle set it in a tin pail in a kettle of 
boiling water. 

STEAMED OAT MEAL PUDDING. 

Put to soak over night one coffee cup oat meal in one and 
one-half coffee cups of water. In the morning add a little salt 
and one pint of boiling milk, put in a pan and steam two hours. 
When done wet cups with cold water and fill. Eat with sweet- 
ened cream or boiled custard. 

APPLE PUDDING. 

One layer apple sauce, sweetened, one layer bread crumbs, 
then some small pieces of butter and a little cinnamon sprinkled 
over it and so on until your dish is full of layers, alternately 
pour over it one cup milk, bake one-half hour. Eat with sweet- 
ened cream or rich sauce. 

A PLAIN PUDDING FOR CHILDREN. 

Butter slices of bread on both sides, place them in a hot skillet 
containing about two-thirds of a cup of molasses or syrup, when 
the molasses has boiled up once, place the buttered bread in 
and brown nicely on both sides. It is very nice. 



BREAKFAST, DESSERT AND SUPPER. . 29 



LEMON PUDDING. 

* 

Two lemons, one pound granulated sugar, three ounces but- 
ter, one pint milk. Mix the butter and sugar thoroughly, beat 
the eggs separately very light. Grate the rind of on,e lemon 
and the juice of two lemons which must be added the last 
thing, a little salt. Bake three-quarters of an hour in a mod- 
erate oven. To be eaten cold without sauce. 

RICE PUDDING. 

Three pints milk, four eggs, one cup rice, one cup sugar one 
cup raisins, one tablespoon butter, a little salt. Wash rice in 
three or four waters until the last one is clear, then steam it in 
half of the milk. When steamed, take the rest of the milk and 
the yolks of the eggs, sugar, butter and salt, and mix all well 
together. Butter a pan and bake, then take the whites of the 
eggs and two spoons powdered sugar. Make a meringue, and 
after it is baked put it on and return it to the oven long enough 
to brown. 

ORANGE TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

One cup tapioca, soaked over night in one pint water ; in the 
morning add one quart of boiling water, and let it cook until it 
is like starch. One cup sugar, and the juice and grated rind of 
three oranges. Make a sourla of the whites of three eggs, two 
tablespoons powdered sugar, and set in the oven long enough 
to brown. 

SUET PUDDING. 

One cup suet, chopped line, one cup molasses, scant, one cup 
sweet milk, one cup raisins or currants, one teaspoon of salt, 
one small teaspoon of soda mixed in a tablespoon of hot water. 
Steam in a pan three hours. Wine or brandy sauce. 



30 BREAKFAST, DESSERT AND SUPPER. 



QUICK PUDDING. 

One quart milk, five eggs, five tablespoons flour. Beat the 
eggs very light, then mix the flour with a little of the milk and 
the eggs together. After boiling the remainder of the milk, pour 
it over the eggs, milk and flour stiring well, and bake from one 
-half to three-quarters of an hour in a pretty quick oven. A 
little pinch of salt. To be eaten with a rich cold sauce. This 
is a delicious pudding. 

LEMON TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

One cup tapioca, soaked over night, in a pint water, one cup 
sugar. In the morning add one quart boiling water, and let it 
cook until it is as thick as starch. Grate the rind of one lemon 
and add the juice of three lemons. Make a meringue of the 
whites of three eggs and drop it on the pudding and place it 
in the oven to brown. Eat with sweetened cream or sauce, cold. 

CHOCOLATE PUDDING. 

One quart milk, ten tablespoons bread crumbs, yolks of six 
eggs well beaten with one cup coffee sugar, flavor with vanilla, 
sprinkle six tablespoons chocolate on the top, bake slowly one 
hour. When done make a soufla of the whites of the eggs 
and one-half cup pulverized sugar. Spread on top and brown 
a little. Eat with cream. 

SPONGE CAKE PUDDING. 

Fill your dish with lady fingers. Then make a custard of 
one quart milk and four eggs ; pour over the cake, and bake 
as you would a common custard. It is a very light and delicate 
pudding. Pieces of stale sponge cake make a nice pudding- 
made in this way. 



BREAKFAST, DESSERT AND SUPPER. 31 



GRAHAM PUDDING. 

Two coffee cups Graham flour, one coffee cup sour milk, one 
coffee cup chopped raisins, one-half cup molasses, one egg, tea- 
spoon of soda mixed in a tablespoon of hot water, one teaspoon 
of cinnamon; one nutmeg, a little salt. Steam three hours. 

ENGLISH PLUM PUDDING. 

One-half pound butter, one half pound suet ctarpped fine, one- 
half pound sugar, one and one-fourth pounds flour, one pound 
raisins seeded and chopped, one pound currants, one-fourth 
pound citron, one cup milk, six eggs, one and one-half cups 
brandy, one-fourth ounce cloves, one-half ounce mace, one 
grated nutmeg. Cream the butter and sugar ; add the yolks 
of the eggs. When well beaten, then the milk. Whip the 
whites of the eggs, and put in alternately with the flour, then 
the spice, lastly the fruit. Steam from three to four hours. 
Wine or brandy sauce. 

TAPIOCA CREAM. 

Soak two tablespoons of tapioca. Boil one quart milk. Add 
the tapioca, and put in the yolks of three eggs, well beaten with 
one and one-half cups sugar. Let this boil up, then set away 
to cool. Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth. Add 
sugar, and put on the cream. Flavor with vanilla 

AMBROSIA IMPROVED. 

Slice oranges in a deep glass dish, sprinkle well with granu- 
lated sugar, cover with grated cocoanut, sprinkle with sugar ; 
repeat until the dish is full. Then whip a bowl of cream very 
stiff. Sweeten, and flavor with vanilla, and pour over the 
whole. 



32 BREAKFAST, DESSERT AND SUPPER. 



BAKED INDIAN PUDDING. 

Three pints milk, three eggs, one teacup Indian meal, sifted, 
one and one-half teacups molasses, one-half teacup melted 
butter, one teasjwon ginger, one teaspoon cinnamon, a pinch 
salt, put one quart of the milk over the fire to boil, then stir 
the meal with the remaining pint of milk and butter and 
when the milk commences to boil stir this in and let it boil five 
or ten minutes, then take it from fire and when a little cool 
beat the eggs, separately and stir in. Bake one and one-half 
hours. 

EGGLESS CORN STARCH PUDDING. 

One quart milk, three tablespoons com starch, a little salt. 
Put the milk in a farina kettle. When it boils, stir the corn 
starch with a little cold milk, in which must be reserved from 
the quart milk for this purpose. Eat with a boiled custard or 
sweetened cream. 

PEACH PUDDING. 

Put in a farina kettle a scant quart of milk. Reserve one- 
half cup of milk with which to moisten two tablespoons of corn 
starch. When the milk boils add corn starch, and stir con- 
stantly until it is thick. Then remove from the fire. Add 
one tablespoon butter. Allow this mixture to cool. When 
this is done beat in the yolks of three eggs till the mixture 
seems light and creamy. Add one-half coffee cup of granulated 
sugar. Cover the bottom of the baking dish with two or three 
layers of juicy peaches pared, halved and stoned. Sprinkle over 
three tablespoons of granulated sugar. Pour on the custard 
carefully, and bake twenty minutes. Make a meringue with 
the whites of the three eggs and a tablespoon of powdered 
sugar, and return to the oven to brown. To be eaten cold 
with sweetened cream. 



BREAKFAST, DESSERT AND SUPPER. 33 



TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

Soak three tablespoons tapioca in water enough to cover it 
about three hours. Then put it in one quart boiling milk, and 
boil fifteen minutes.- Beat the yolks of four eggs in one cup 
sugar. Stir them into the pudding five minutes before it is 
done. Flavor with vanilla. Beat the whites of four eggs with 
three tablespoons sugar. Mix one-half teacup grated cocoanut 
with this. Put on the pudding and brown. 

BIKDS NEST PUDDING. 

Pare whole apples ; take out the cores ; sprinkle sugar over 
them, and steam until a little tender. Then place them in a 
pudding dish, and pour over them a batter made of eight eggs, 
one quart milk, one pint flour, one teaspoon cream tartar, one- 
half teaspoon soda. The batter should almost cover the apples. 
Use as many apples as you please. If apples are large, halve 
them. To be eaten with a rich wine or brandy sauce. 

TAPIOCA BIKD'S NEST PUDDING. 

Soak one cup tapioca over night. In the morning put in a 
little water, a small cup full, and steam it until soft. Then 
take three eggs to one quart milk ; beat the eggs ; add milk 
and tapioca, sugar to taste, one tablespoon butter, a little nut- 
meg. Take nice tart apples; pare and take out the cores, 
leaving the apples whole. Pour over the mixture, and bake 
until the apples are done. 

FIG PUDDING. ■ . 

One-half pound of figs chopped, one-half pound coffee sugar, 
one-half pound bread crumbs, one-half pound suet, three eggs. 
Steam three hours. 



34 BREAKFAST, DESSERT AND SUPPER. 



CRANBERRY PUDDING. 

Steam one quart cranberries with one-half cup water and two 
cups sugar. Then make one quart soda biscuit dough, one 
quart flour, piece of butter the size of an egg, three teaspoons 
Cleveland's Superior Baking Powder, enough milk or water to 
make it about as soft as for biscuits. Roll out about one-hall 
inch thick, and spread the cranberries when cool on it. Roll 
it up, butter the steamer. Put it in and steam one hour. To 
be eaten with a rich sauce. 

BALTIMORE PUDDING. 

One cup sweet milk, two cups flour, one egg, three and one- 
half teaspoons Cleveland's Superior Baking Powder, one table- 
spoon sugar, two tablespoons melted butter. Flavor with 
vanilla or lemon. Bake half an hour. 

ORANGE PUDDING. 

One cup rice washed in three or four waters until white, one 
coffee cup milk, one coffee cup water. Steam the rice in the 
water and milk. When done, add the yolks of three eggs well 
beaten, two teacups sugar, the juice and grated rind of three 
oranges and one lemon. Mix well, and bake. When done beat 
the whites of the eggs stiff. Add two small tablespoons of 
sugar, then brown it in the oven for a few minutes. 

ORANGE SOUFLA. 

Four oranges cut in thin slices sweetened. Make a soft cus- 
tard of yolks of four eggs and one pint milk. When cold pour 
over the oranges ; beat the whites of the eggs and sweeten ; 
slide on the custard ; put dish in a pan of cold water ; set in 
the oven just long enough to warm the eggs. 



BREAKFAST, DESSERT AND SUPPER. 35 



APPLE DUMPLINGS. 

One quart flour, a piece butter size of an egg, three teaspoons 
Cleveland's Superior Baking Powder, a little salt. Mix with 
sweet milk ; slice apples ; steam them ; then put apples in the 
crust, and steam from fifteen to twenty minutes. Butter the 
steamer before putting them in. 

GERMAN TOAST. 

One-half loaf baker's bread, cut m slices and soaked in a cus- 
tard made by mixing four eggs with a pint of cold milk. Let it 
soak one hour. Fry the slices on a buttered griddle until light 
brown. To be eaten with a rich sauce. 

PUDDING SAUCE. 

One gill Madeira wine, one egg, the white beaten separately, 
the yolk beaten with one-half cup sugar. Heat the wine to a 
boil. Stir the white in with yolk and sugar, and turn the wine 
on boiling hot. 

STEAMED PUDDING. 

Three cups flour, one cup sugar, one cup milk, one egg, two 
tablespoons melted butter, two and one-half teaspoons Cleve- 
land's Superior Baking Powder, one cup cherries, currants or 
raisins, a little salt. Steam three hours. 

PUDDING SAUCE. 

One cup sugar, butter size of an egg, two dessert spooDS corn 
starch, one egg, a little salt. Put egg, sugar and butter in a 
bowl, and make nearly a pint of starch with the two' tablespoons 
corn starch. Stir this while hot on the sugar, butter and egg. 

O » CO 

Then add one wine glass of wine or brandy. 



36 BREAKFAST, DESSERT AND SUPPER. 



COTTAGE PUDDING. 

One pint flour, two teaspoons cream tartar, one teaspoon soda, 
one tablespoon butter, one-half cup sugar, one cup milk, one 
egg. Butter a pan. Pour it in and bake one-half hour. Serve 
with wine or brandy sauce. 

SNOWBALLS. 

One-half box Cox's gelatine, whites of three eggs, sugar and 
vanilla to taste. Soak the gelatine in enough cold water to 
cover it for one hour. Then add a teacup of boiling water. 
After it is dissolved add enough cold water to make one pint 
of it altogether. ' Strain this on a platter. Put whites of three 
eggs in it, and beat it until it is a stiff foam. When half beat- 
en, sweeten with granulated sugar. Add vanilla to it, and fin- 
ish beating. Put them in teacups previously wet with cold 
water. When moulded in the cups turn them out and eat with 

sweetened cream. 

t 

SOUFLA PUDDING. 

One quart milk, one pint bread crumbs, one cup sugar, the 
grated rind of one lemon, a piece butter size of an egg, yolks of 
four eggs. Soak the crumbs in the milk. Mix all together, 
and bake until it thickens. When cold spread a layer of jelly 
over the top, and beat the whites of the four eggs very light 
Add nearly a teacup sugar and the juice of the lemon. Heap 
it like rocks over the jelly, and stand it in the oven until it 
browns. 

AN EXCELLENT PUDDING SAUCE. 

One cup sugar, one-half cup butter. Stir to a perfect cream. 
After this is done add three or four tablespoons of red raspberry 
jam. 



BREAKFAST, DESSERT AND SUPPER. 37 



CHOCOLATE CUSTARD. 

One-fourth pound chocolate, one quart milk, three eggs, one 
cup sugar. Put the milk over to boil. Beat the whites of two 
of the eggs very light. When the milk begins to boil place 
the beaten whites of eggs on it until a little cooked. Then skim 
it off on a plate, and proceed to make the custard as follows : , 
Grate the chocolate, and stir into the milk on the fire. When 
it begins to thicken add the rest of the eggs and sugar. Stir it 
a few moments constantly. Then fill cups, and on the top of 
each one place some of the frosting. It can be put on one large 
dish if preferred. 

RICE DUMPLINGS. 

One cup rice washed in several waters until white. Then 
steam it with one and one-half cups water and two cups milk, 
one-half teaspoon salt. In the meantime steam some good sour 
apples. Have about one pint of apple sauce. When done, wet 
teacups with cold water. Then put m two tablespoons of the 
steamed rice, one tablespoon apple sauce, then two more of the 
rice. When ready to serve, turn them out, and eat with soft 
custard or sweetened cream. 

SAGO PUDDING. 

Three-fourths cup of sago, washed well, and put into a quart 
of milk. Let it stand in a farina kettle in boiling water until 
well swelled. While hot add two tablespoons butter and one 
cup white sugar. When cool add the well beaten yolks of four 
eggs. Bake three-fourths of an hour and cool. Beat the whites 
of the eggs to a froth with two tablespoons sugar. Spread the 
pudding with jelly or jam. Put on the frosting and brown 
lightly. 



38 BREAKFAST, DESSERT AND SUPPER. 



IMPROMPTU PUDDING. 

Two cups mince meat, two cups flour, one and one-half tea- 
spoons Cleveland's Superior Baking powder, five eggs. This 
pudding is a good one, and is made with little trouble. Steam 
three hours. Serve with wine sauce. 



PUDDING SAUCE. 

Beat the yolks of three eggs into a teacup sugar, add a tea- 
cup cream, and the juice and rind of three lemons. 

A DELICIOUS CREAM. 

One pint cream, one-half package Cox's gelatine, two wine 
glasses white wine, juice of two lemons, one cup powdered 
sugar, bitter almonds for flavoring. Soak the gelatine in a cup 
of cold water. After it is dissolved, put sugar, lemons, wine 
and soaked gelatine into a farina kettle. Have the water boil- 
ing, and let it remain for fifteen minutes, or until the gelatine 
is entirely dissolved. Strain, and let it cool before flavoring. 
Whip the cream stiff, and beat it gradually in with the other 
ingredients. Wet a mould, fill, and set directly upon the ice 
until needed. 

BLACKBERRIES FOR PIES. 

Seven pounds fruit, one quart vinegar, four pounds sugar. 
Pour out fruit ; boil down liquor ; pour over them ; keep in a 
jar. 

POP CORN PUDDING. 

Soak two quarts of freshly popped corn in three pints sweet 
milk over night. When ready to bake, add three well beaten 
eggs, a little salt, and sugar to taste. Bake like a custard. 



BREAKFAST, DESSERT AND SUPPER, 39 



CHOCOLATE BLANC MANGE. 

Two-thirds of a quart of milk, three eggs, one cup sugar, one- 
half cup grated chocolate, three tablespoons corn starch, vanilla 
to taste. Mix the corn starch with one-third quart milk. Stir 
in with the whites of the eggs well beaten. Add the sugar. 
After it has boiled pretty thick, flavor with vanilla. Then take 
one-third of it out, and place it where it will keep warm. Take 
the remainder, add the beaten yolks and chocolate, beat them 
up nicely together, wet a mould or a brick shaped pan, and 
first put a dark layer in, then a light one, then the dark one. 
Eat with sweetened cream or whipped cream. 

WASHINGTON LEMON PUDDING. 

One-half pound butter, one-half pound sugar, two ounces 
stale sponge cake rubbed fine, five well beaten eggs, two table- 
spoons brandy and rose water mixed, the grated rind and juice 
of one lemon. Beat the butter and sugar very light, then add 
the sponge cake. Stir in by degrees. Lastly the lemon, bran- 
dy and rose water alternately. Mix well without beating too 
much. Line deep pie plates with a rich paste, and bake in a 
quick oven. When done and cold, sift white sugar over. 

STEAMED BREAD PUDDING. 

One quart of light bread dough, two-thirds of a coffee cup of 
chopped suet, one teacup of chopped raisins. Steam in a pan 
with a tube in it one and one-half hours. Serve with a rich 
wine sauce. 

HUBBARD SQUASH PIES. 

One pint steamed and strained squash, one quart milk, three 
eggs, one teaspoon vanilla, one-half teaspoon ginger, a little salt. 
Sweeten to taste with syrup and sugar. Line pie plates with a 
rich crust, pour mixture in, and bake slowly one hour. 



40 BREAKFAST, DESSERT AND SUPPER. 



ROMAN CREAM. 

One quart cream, one-half box Cox's gelatine dissolved in 
one-half pint milk, five ounces powdered sugar added while 
hot. Flavor to taste. When cool strain the milk in which is 
dissolved the gelatine, sugar, etc., into the cream, and whip it 
to a froth before putting it into the mould. 

CREAMY SAUCE. 

One cup butter, two cups sugar, one-half cup wine. Stir 
butter and sugar to a cream. Add wine. Put all in a farina 
kettle, and let come to a boiling heat. It will be light and 
creamy. 

EGGLESS SQUASH PIES. 

One pint squash steamed and strained, one quart milk, one 
and one-half tablespoons corn starch, one-half teaspoon ginger, 
one-half teaspoon vanilla, one teaspoon cinnamon.. Sweeten to 
taste with sugar and syrup, a little salt. Boil the milk. Then 
stir the corn starch with a little cold milk, and pour it in the 
boiling milk. Boil it up once, then take it from the fire and 
add the other ingredients. Line pie plates with a rich crust, 
pour mixture in, and bake slowly for one hour. 

• 

MINCE PIES. 

Five bowls chopped apples, three bowls chopped meat, bowl 
chopped suet, five bowls boiled cider, two bowls sugar, one-half 
bowl molasses, three tablespoons of cinnamon, one teaspoon of 
mace, one teaspoon cloves, one teaspoon pepper, two teaspoons 
salt, one teaspoon nutmeg, one pound currants, one pound 
raisins, one bowl brandy or wine, juice of five lemons and the 
rind of three, one coffee cup made coffee, good and strong. The 
bowls referred to are pints. 



■ 



BREAKFAST, DESSERT AND SUPPER. 41 



APPLE MERINGUE PIE. 

Steam six large apples. While hot, put in a piece of butter 
the size of an egg. When cold, add one-half teacup of fine 
cracker crumbs, the yolks of three eggs, one and one-half cups 
of cream, not very rich. Flavor with essence of lemon, and 
sugar to taste. Bake in a large pie plate, or two small ones, 
with a rich under crust. When baked, take the whites of the 
eggs with two tablespoons of powdered or granulated sugar. 
Beat very stiff, and spread on the top. Set back in the oven 
and brown. 

&UMMER MINCE PIES. 

One teacup chopped raisins, one teacup chopped crackers, 
one teacup vinegar, not too sour, two 'teaspoons cinnamon, salt 
and pepper to taste, five eggs, beaten well, four cups sugar, 
butter size of an eo-or Bake with two crusts. 



J sn' 



CAROLINA PIES. 

One quart milk, yolks of eight eggs, one cup Sugar, one tea- 
spoon corn starch, flavor with lemon or vanilla, a little salt. 
These pies require no upper crust, and are convenient to make 
after making angle food cake, as it saves the yolks of the eggs 
besides making a delicious pie. 

' POT-PIE CRUST. 

One quart flour, three teaspoons Cleveland's superior bak- 
ing powder, one piece butter size of an egg. Wet it with milk 
and have it about as stiff as biscuits, then cut it in small pieces 
and place it in the steamer after having first buttered the steam- 
er to prevent their sticking. Steam from fifteen to twenty 
minutes, then place them around the meat on the platter. 



42 BREAKFAST, DESSERT AND SUPPER. 



COCOANUT TARTS. 

Grate the white part of a cocoanut, add to it its own weight 
in sugar, and one-half teacup milk. Stew in a sauce pan until 
tender. When" cool, add three eggs well beaten, the grated 
rind of one lemon, and a pinch of salt. Line patty pans with 
rich puff paste, and fill with the cocoanut mixture. Bake from 
twenty minutes to one-half hour. 

LEMON PIE WITH A CRUST. 

One coffee cup white sugar, one cup hot water, one table" 
spoon corn starch, one tablespoon butter, tile rind and juice of 
one lemon. Cook for a few moments, then add one well beaten 
egg, a little salt. Fill pies and bake. 

PUFF PASTE. 

One pint flour, yolk of one egg, one-half tablespoon butter, 
a little water, j ust enough to mix. Knead a little, roll out, fold. 
Leave in a cool place from three to six hours, unfold, add six 
ounces butter in middle of paste, fold and roll gently one way, 
fold again, repeating this folding six times. Now a little flour 
on the places that stick. Keep in a cool place from fifteen to 
twenty-four hours before using, wrapping in a floured towel. 

CANNED PIE-PLANT. 

Cut the pie-plant, wash and prepare it as you would to make 
a pie, then put it in a glass can, fill with cold water and seal 
tight, as we do ordinary canned fruit. This new method, strange 
as it may seem, is a perfect success. If you want a delicious 
pie in January, this will make it — in the ordinary way of mak- 
ing a pie-plant pie. One cup sugar, (add with pie-plant,) table- 
spoon flour, tablespoon melted butter, and nutmeg to taste. 



BREAKFAST, DESSERT AND SUPPER. 43 



LEMON TARTS. 

One teacup white sugar, one teacup hot water, one table- 
spoon corn- starch, one tablespoon melted butter, the rind 
and juice of one lemon. Cook for a few moments in a farina 
kettle, then add one well beaten egg and the yolk of another ; 
line patty pans with a rich paste and bake them ; when crust 
is done, fill with the mixture. Make a meringue with the 
white of one egg and a little pulverized sugar. Cover the tops 
and return to the oven to brown. 

LEMON PIE. 

One large lemon, one and one-half coffee cups sugar, two- 
thirds coffee cup water, two tablespoons flour, yolks of four 
eggs, one teaspoon melted butter. Line pie plates with rich 
puff paste, and fill with this mixture. When baked, beat the 
whites of four eggs very light with three tablespoons powdered 
sugar; place the soufla on the pies, return to the oven, and 
brown. 

Use the Propeller egg beater. 

SHAD APPLE PIE. 

Fill a deep pie plate with sliced apples, then cover with a 
good rich pie crust, (no under crust). After the pie is baked 
break the crust in with the apples, cut up fine, mix in well a 
cup of sugar, a tablespoon of butter, one teaspoon of ground cin- 
namon. Put in a pudding dish and press. When cold, eat in 
slices ; eat cream on it if you like. You may need more sugar 
and spice, as some apples are more tart than others. 

WHIPPED CREAM. 

One pint cream whipped stiff, and sugar and vanilla to taste, 
or wine if preferred. 



44 BREAKFAST, DESSERT AND SUPPER. 



FAMILY PIE CEUST. 

One pound flour, three-fourths pound butter and lard, (mixed,) 
rub the shortning in the flour in lumps, not very fine, and wet 
with ice water, then put on ice or in the cold for one hour. 

COCOANUT CREAM PIE. 

Yolks of five eggs, three coffee cups cream, one dessert spoon 
corn starch, eight tablespoons granulated sugar, one and one- 
half teacups grated cocoantit, one teaspoon melted butter, one 
teacup milk, one dessert spoon vanilla, a little salt. Line two 
good sized pie plates with a rich puff paste, and fill with this 
mixture. When pies are baked, beat the whites of five eggs 
very light with two tablespoons powdered sugar; place it on 
the pies, and put in the oven and brown. 

Use the Propeller egg beater. 

ICE CREAM. 

One quart cream, one quart custard, made of one quart milk, 
four eggs, one tablespoon of corn starch. Make very sweet, 
and flavor with vanilla. When it commences to freeze add two 
or three bananas sliced, stir in and freeze. 

COFFEE CREAM. 

Dissolve one and one-fourth ounces Cooper's isinglass in a 
half pint of cold water, boil for two hours ; one teacup of 
whole coffee, in a pint of cold water. Boil down to one-half 
cup strong coffee ; add one teacup of the melted isinglass, put 
them in a farina kettle with one-half pint milk; let it boil up' 
once or twice, then sweeten with granulated sugar ; let the 
whole stand ten minutes to cool. Whip one pint cream, stir 
it in with the rest of the ingredients ; wet a mould and place 
on ice to harden. 



BREAKFAST, DESSERT AND SUPPER. 45 



CHAKLOTTE RUSSE. 

One cup sugar, one cup flour, oue and one-half teaspoons 
Cleveland's Superior Baking powder, one-half lemon, three eggs. 

Cream for It. — One quart cream, one-half cup milk, four 
tablespoons sugar, two teaspoons vanilla, two tablespoons gela- 
tine. Soak the gelatine in a tablespoon of cold water for one 
hour. Whip the cream very stiff. Sweeten and flavor it. 
Then put a tablespoon of hot water on the gelatine, and strain 
on the whipped cream, milk, etc. When the cake is cold, split 
it open and line } r our dish with it. Pour cream mixture over 
it, and you will have a Charlotte Russe as good as can be made. 

CHOCOLATE CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 

One-half ounce Coopers isinglass. Soak in one cup cold 
water* three tablespoons grated chocolate rubbed smooth in 
one-half cup milk, one teacup powdered sugar, four eggs, one 
pint cream or milk. Heat the cream or milk to boiling. Add 
the sugar, chocolate, isinglass and beaten yolks, and boil five 
or ten minutes. Take it from the fire, beat the whites to a stiff 
froth, and stir in. Line a mould with spongecake, and fill with 
the mixture. This must be made in a farina kettle or a tin 
pail, placed in a pot of boiling water. If cream is used, whip it. 

FLOATING ISLAND. 

One quart milk, five eggs, one teaspoon corn starch. Put the 
milk in a skillet over the lire, and when it commences to boil, 
have the whites of three of the eggs beaten very light, and 
drop them on the boiling milk for two or three minutes. Then 
skim them off, and take the two eggs remaining and the three 
yolks beaten together with one teacup sugar and the corn 
starch. Mix with the boiling milk, which must be placed in a 
farina kettle, and stir constantly until it is about as thick as 
good cream. Flavor with vanilla, and put the floating island 
on the top. 



46 BREAKFAST, DESSERT AND SUPPER. 



WINE JELLY. 

One pint cold water poured on one paper of Cox's gelatine. 
Let it stand one hour. Acid one-fourth pound sugar, the rind 
of one lemon and the juice of three, one pint wine, one quart 
boiling water. Strain, and set it away to harden. 

DELICIOUS BLANC MANGE. 

I 

Put one ounce Cooper's isinglass in a little water over the 

fire until dissolved. Then sweeten one quart cream. Add 

vanilla to taste. Whip the cream well. Strain the isinglass 

on the cream. Wet moulds in cold water, fill, and set them 

near the ice until they congeal. 

EGGS IN JELLY. 

Put one ounce of Cooper's isinglass in a little water over 
the fire until it is all dissolved. Then sweeten one quart cream 
or milk, flavor with vanilla. Make a small hole in eight or nine' 
eggs. Empty and rinse thoroughly. Then strain the isin- 
glass on the cream or milk. Mix well, and fill the egg shells 
with this blanc mange. Place the eggs in a pan of meal to keep 
them steady until moulded. 

Jelly for the Eggs. — Put one pint cold water on one pa- 
per Cox's gelatine. Let it stand one hour. Add one and one- 
fourth pounds sugar, the rind of one lemon and juice of two, 
one pint Madeira or sherry wine, two-thirds quart boiling 
water. Strain it, and set it away in the dish you wish to serve 
it in. A high, flat, glass dish is suitable for it. When the 
jelly is nearly cold, break the shells from the blanc mange, and 
place the artificial eggs in the jelly. If put in at the right time, 
the jelly will harden around them, and in that way hold them 
up. It is a handsome dish and delicious. 



BREAKFAST, DESSERT AND SUPPER 47 



RICE CROQUETTES. 

One-half cup rice, one pint milk, two tablespoons sugar, three 
eggs, one tablespoon melted butter, a little grated lemon peel 
and salt. Soak the rice in enough warm water to cover it, then 
drain almost dry. Put in the milk, and steam until very ten- 
der. Then add sugar, butter and salt. Beat the eggs to a stiff 
froth, and add to the mixture. Cook all together about five 
minutes. Remove from the fire. Add the grated lemon peel, 
and turn it upon a well buttered dish. When cold, flour your 
hands, and roll into oval shaped balls. Dip into beaten eggs 
and cracker crumbs, and fry in good sweet lard. 

WHIPPED CREAM. 

One pint cream whipped very stiff, and sugar and vanilla to 
taste, whites of three eggs beaten to a froth, one tablespoon 
brandy. • 

Use the Propeller egg beater. 



SUPPER. 



MINNEHAHA CAKE. 

One and one-half coffee cups sugar, one-half coffee cup but- 
ter. Beat to a cream. Three eggs, three teaspoons Cleveland's 
superior baking powder, two coffee cups flour, one-half coffee 
cup milk. . ■ 

Cream for this Cake. — Pour one-half pint boiling water 
over three teacups pulverized sugar, and boil until one spoon- 
ful placed on a cold plate will stir to a thick cream. Pour this 
over the whites of four eggs beateh to a stiff froth, and stir un- 
til cold and creamy. Add one-half a teaspoon of tartaric acid. 
Flavor to taste. Spread between the cakes, and cover the top 
with the same. 

MARBLE CAKE. 

White. — One and one-half cup sugar, one-half cup butter, 
one-half cup sweet milk, two and one-half cups flour, one and 
one-half teaspoons Cleveland's superior baking powder, whites 
of four eggs. 

Black. — One cup brown sugar, one-half cup molasses, one 
half cup butter, one-half cup sweet milk, one and one-half tea- 
spoons Cleveland's superior baking powder, two and one-half 
cups flour, yolks of four eggs, one teaspoon cinnamon, one-half 
nutmeg, one-half teaspoon cloves, one-half teaspoon alspice. 
First put a tablespoonful of the light in, then one of the dark, 
and so on, alternately. 



BEEAKFAST, DESSERT AND SUPPER. 49 



ECLAIR CAKES. 

One teacup sugar, one teacup flour, three eggs, one teaspoon 
vanilla, one teaspoon Cleveland's Superior Baking Powder. 

Filling. — One pint sweet cream, whites of two eggs. Whip 
the cream very stiff. Beat the eggs light. Sweeten and flavor 
to taste. Mix well together, and fill the cakes when baked. 

Frosting for Eclairs. — One tablespoon corn starch, one 
cup milk, one egg, one cup sugar, one-half cup grated choco- 
late. Boil all together until thick, and frost. 

LEMON CAKE. 

Two and one-half cups sugar, one cup butter, rive eggs, two- 
thirds cup milk, one teaspoon soda, four cups flour, one large 
lemon or two small ones, the rind of one and the juice of two,' 
two teaspoons cream tartar ; sift cream tartar with the flour ; 
dissolve soda with one tablespoon hot water. 

Use the Propeller egg beater. 

ICE CREAM CAKE. 

Two cups pulverized sugar, three-fourths cup butter, one 
cup sweet milk, one cup corn starch, two cups flour, whites of 
seven eggs, beaten to a stiff froth, two teaspoons cream tartar, 
one teaspoon soda, a little salt. Bake in jelly pans, in a quick 
oven. 

Cream for this Cake. — Pour one-half pint boiling water 
over three cups pulverized sugar, and boil until one spoonful 
placed on a cold plate will stir to a thick cream. Pour this 
over the whites of four eggs beaten to a stiff froth and stir 
until cold and creamy, add one-half teaspoon of tartaric acid. 
Flavor to taste, spread between the cakes, and cover the top with 
the same. This makes two loaves. It is splendid. 

Use the Propeller egg beater. 



50 BREAKFAST, DESSERT AND SUPPER. 



COCOANUT CAKE. 

One coffee cup full sugar, a piece of butter size of an egg, 
the whites of three well beaten eggs, one-half teaspoon soda dis- 
solved in a wine glass of milk ; one coffee cup flour, one tea- 
spoon cream tartar. Bake in jelly cake tins in a quick oven. 

Cream for this Cake. — One pint milk, yolks of three eggs, 
one cup sugar, one-half cup flour, mix well the flour, sugar and 
ecro-s and when the milk boils stir them smooth! v in it: let it 
simmer a little while and when cool add one-half of a grated 
cocoanut, one teaspoon vanilla. Spread the first layer of the 
cake with cream, the second with currant jelly ; then put on 
the third cake, and cover thick with icing ; grate the other one- 
half of the cocoanut, sprinkle on top. 

ANGELS FOOD. 

Whites of eleven eggs, one and one-half tumblers granulated 
sugar, sifted twice, one tumbler flour, one teaspoon vanilla, one 
teaspoon cream tartar, sift flour four times then add cream tar- 
tar and sift again. Sift sugar before measuring, beat eggs to a 
stiff froth. Add sugar lightly, then the flour very gently, then 
vanilla. Bake forty minutes in a moderate oven, try with a 
broom splint. Turn pan up side down to cool. The pan 
should have tin feet about one inch deep on each corner of the 
pan, so that when it is turned over to cool it can rest on the 
feet that the air may circulate freely under it. Must not butter 
the pan. 

Use the Propeller egg beater. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

Ten eggs, eight ounces flour, one pound granulated sugar, 
the juice and rind of one lemon, a small pinch salt, sift the flour 
twice, and heat before putting in. 



BREAKFAST, DESSERT AND SUPPER. 51 



FRUIT AND DELICATE CAKE. 

Two and one-half teacups sugar, four and one-half teacups 
sifted flour, one teacup butter, four eggs, one teacup sour milk, 
one teaspoon soda, not heaping. Flavor with lemon. Take 
enough out of this to fill two jelly tins, then to the remainder 
add one cup chopped raisins, one cup currants, one-half cup 
citron, two tablespoons molasses, two tablespoons brandy, one 
tablespoon cinnamon, one-half tablespoon mace and half a tea- 
spoon cloves. Bake this in jelly tins ; when done spread jelly 
between the cakes, which must be put together in this way ; 
first delicate, then fruit, alternately. Then frost, it is delicious. 

COMPOSITION CAKE. 

One and one-half pounds brown sugar, one and three- fourths 
pounds flour, fourteen ounces butter, four eggs, one teaspoon of 
soda, two-thirds pint water, one and one-fourth pounds raisins, 
one tablespoon mace, one tablespoon cinnamon, one-half gill 
wine, one nutmeg. The above receipt makes two loaves, in two 
quart pans. 

ORANGE CAKE. 

Two cups sugar, one-half cup water, two and one-fourth cups 
of flour, two teaspoons Cleveland's superior baking powder, 
yolks of five eggs, and whites of two, juice and grated rind of 
one orange. Frosting to spread between cakes. Whites of 
three eggs beaten to a froth ; add four tablespoons sugar, the 
juice and rind of one orange, spread between layers. 

Sponge cake is nice made in layers, with this filling. 

GOLD CAKE. 

This is made the same as the silver cake, using the yolks in- 
stead of the whites. 



52 BREAKFAST, DESSERT AND SUPPER. 



CORN STARCH CAKE. 

Two cups sugar, two cups flour, one cup butter, one cup corn 
starch, one cup sweet milk, one teaspoon cream tartar, one-half 
teaspoon soda, whites of seven eggs. 

PORK CAKE. 

Thirteen ounces fat salt pork, chopped very fine, pour on one 
pint boiling water ; when cool, add one teacup molasses, three 
cups sugar, one tablespoon cloves, one tablespoon cinnamon, 
one tablespoon soda, nine cups flour, one pound raisins. 

SOFT GINGER BREAp. 

Four teacups flour, one teacup sugar, one teacup molasses, 
one teacup buttermilk, half teacup butter, three eggs, one and 
one-half teaspoon soda dissolved in one tablespoon hot water, 
one tablespoon ginger. 

PUFF CAKE. 

Three cups flour, two and one-fourth, cups sugar, one-half cup 
milk, three eggs, butter the size of an egg, one teaspoon cream 
tartar, one-half teaspoon soda, one-half teaspoon salt. Flavor to 
taste. 

DELICATE NUT CAKE. 

One and one-half coffee cups flour, one cup sugar, one-third 
cup butter, one-half cup milk, one spoon cream tartar, one-half 
teaspoon soda, whites of three eggs, put in last one cup hick- 
ory nuts. 

Use the Propeller egg beater. 



BREAKFAST, DESSERT AND SUPPER. 53 



CALIFORNIA CAKE. 

Yolks of five eggs, one-half cup butter, one cup sugar, one- 
half cup milk, one and one-half cups flour, one and one-half tea- 
spoons Cleveland's superior baking powder. Bake in two jelly 
tins. 

Chocolate Icing to put between and on the Cake. — 
One cup grated chocolate, one cup sugar, one wine glass water 
or milk, one tablespoon corn starch, put on the fire and boil 
pretty thick. Flavor cake and frosting with vanilla. 

FRENCH CAKE. 

Two cups sugar, two-thirds cup butter, four eggs, yolks and 
whites beaten separately, one clip sweet milk, three cups flour, 
three teaspoons Cleveland's superior baking powder. 

FIG PASTE. 

One pound figs, chopped fine, one cup sugar, one-half cup 
water ; boil until to a paste ; make French cake in two layers ; 
spread paste between and ice top ; boiled frosting is the nicest. 

BOILED FROSTING. 

One cup sugar, one-half cup boiling water, boil about fifteen 
minutes, until it threads from the spoon. Beat the white of 
one egg, then pour the hot syrup and stir. This frosting will 
not fall off in cutting the cake. 

SILVER CAKE. 

The whites of eight eggs, one cup butter, two cups sugar, 
three cups flour, one-half cup sweet milk, one teaspoon cream 
tartar, one-half teaspoon soda 



54 BREAKFAST, DESSERT AND SUPPER. 



MOUNTAIN CAKE. 

One pound sugar, one pound flour, one-half pound butter, 
six eggs, beaten separately, one cup raisins, one cup sliced cit- 
ron, one cup sweet milk, one cup blanched almonds or hickory 
nuts, two teaspoons Cleveland's superior baking powder. Bake 
in pans with tubes in the centre. 

CINNAMON BUNS. 

One cup .butter, two cups sugar, one cup sweet milk, four 
cups flour, four eggs. Bake in two shallow pans, and when 
baked, spread the top with butter. After taking out and spread- 
ing on a platter then sift cinnamon and sugar while hot on 
them and place the hot pans they were baked in, over them, 
this steams the cinnamon in, and makes them excellent. 

COCOANUT CAKE. 

One teacup cocoanut, one pound flour, one-half pound butter, 
one pound sugar, one-half pint milk, yolks of six eggs and three 
whites, beaten separately ; three teaspoons Cleveland's superior 
baking powder, mix one-half of the cocoanut with the cake. 

Frosting. — The other half of the cocoanut to be put in the 
frosting ; beat whites of three eggs very light, add one-half pound 
powdered sugar. 

APPLE CAKE. 

Butter the size of an egg, one cup full sugar, four eggs well 
beaten, one cup sifted flour, one heaping teaspoon Cleveland's 
superior baking powder. Bake in four layers. 

Jelly for the Above. — One lemon, the juice and half the 
rind, one large sour apple grated, one cup sugar. Boil five min- 
utes, then let it cool and spread between the cakes. 



BREAKFAST, DESSERT AND SUPPER. 55 



WHITE FRUIT CAKE. 

Two cups white sugar, three cups flour, one-half cup butter, 
three-fourths cup sweet milk, four cups currants, one cup rais- 
ins, one-half cup citron, whites of six eggs, one teaspoon cream 
tartar, one half teaspoon soda, one nutmeg. This makes two 
loaves. 

BREAD CAKE. 

Three cups light dough, three cups sugar, one cup butter, 
three eggs, one teaspoon soda, one pound seeded raisins, a little 
nutmeg. Let it stand a while before baking. 

Use the Propeller egg beater. 

BLACK CAKE. 

Twelve eggs, one and one-half pounds sugar, one pound but- 
ter, three-fourths pound scorched flour, four pounds raisins, three 
pounds currants, one and one-half pounds citron, one small cup 
of brandy, one cup molasses, spice to taste. Bake from two to 
three hours. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

One cup sugar, one cup flour, one and one-half teaspoons 
Cleveland's superior baking powder, one-half lemon, three eggs. 
Beat the eggs separately and light ; bake in a square tin and 
frost. 

QUICK CAKE. 

One cup sugar, one tablespoon butter, stir them to a cream 
and add one well beaten egg, two-thirds cup milk, one and one- 
half cups flour, two teaspoons Cleveland's superior baking pow- 
der, flavor with lemon or vanilla. 



56 BREAKFAST, DESSERT AND SUPPER. 



COFFEE CAKE. 

One cup butter, one cup sugar, one cup molasses, one cup 
cold coffee, strong. Four cups flour, nutmeg to suit taste, one 
and one-half teaspoons cream tartar, three-fourths spoon soda, 
add fruit if you like ; put soda in the coffee and cream tartar 
in the flour. 

Use the Propeller egg beater. 

JELLY CAKE. 

One and one-half cups sugar, two eggs, break in a cup and 
fill with rich morning's milk ; two teaspoons Cleveland's supe- 
rior baking powder sifted in two cups flour. Mix together and 
bake on three jelly tins. 

Lemon Jelly for this Cake. — Rind and juice of one lemon, 
one egg, one tablespoon water, one cup sugar, one teaspoon 
corn starch, all cooked together until a little thick when cold 
spread between the layers. 

WATER-MELON CAKE. 

White Part. — Two cups white sugar, two-thirds cup but- 
ter, one-half cup milk, the whites of five eggs, one teaspoon 
Cleveland's superior baking powder, sifted in three teacups 
flour, two teaspoons extract lemon. 

Red Part. — One cup red sugar sand, one-half cup butter, 
two-thirds cup milk, two cups flour, one teaspoon Cleveland's 
superior baking powder, yolks of five eggs, one teaspoon vanilla, 
one-half pound English currants for the seeds. In filling your 
cake pan, first put the red part in, drop in the currants, then 
put on the outside which must be the white. Bake in. a mod" 
crate oven, when done ornament it with a handsome frosting. 
It is a beautiful cake. 



BREAKFAST, DESSERT AND SUPPER. 5{ 



IMPERIAL CAKE. 

One-half pound flour, one-half pound sugar, one-half pound 
butter, one and one-half pounds blanched almonds, one pound 
raisins, one-half pound citron, two tablespoons brandy, five eggs, 
one nutmeg. 

Use the Propeller egg beater. 

SCOTCH CAKE. 

One pound sugar, three-fourths pound butter, one pound 
flour, eight eggs, one wine-glass of brandy, the juice and grated 
rind of one lemon, one pound raisins. Separate the yolks and 
whites of the eggs, beat them to a froth and mix with the but- 
ter and sugar, previously stirred together to a cream, then add 
the brandy, flour and lemon. 

Frosting for Cake. — One cup sugar, two tablespoons wa- 
ter, boil together ; take off the stove and stir in the white of one 
egg beaten to a stiff froth, mix all together, beat well ; then 
frost your cake with it. You will never want a better frosting 
than this of the kind. 

FIG CAKE. 

One cup sugar, nearly one-half cup butter, one-half cup corn 
starch, one cup flour heaped, whites of three eggs, one and one- 
half teaspoons Cleveland's superior baking powder, flavor with 
lemon. 

Dark Part. — One-half cup sugar, one full cup flour, scant 
one-fourth cup butter, one-fourth cup cold water, one-fourth 
teaspoon soda, dissolved in a teaspoon of hot water ; three-fourths 
cup chopped raisins, one teaspoon cinnamon, one nutmeg, one 
egg^ or yolks 'of two, from one-fourth to one-half pound fig cuts 
very fine. Bake in jelly tins and put together, alternately. 



58 BREAKFAST, DESSERT AND SUPPER. 



FEDERAL CAKE. 

One coffee cup butter, two and one-half coffee cups sugar, one 
coffee cup milk, five coffee cups flour, five eggs, beaten separ- 
ately, very light. One and one-half teaspoons Cleveland's supe- 
rior baking powder, one pound raisins, one-half pound citron, 
one wine-glass wine, one wine-glass brandy. 

This receipt makes two loaves. I usually ]3ut the fruit in 
one, and have the other without fruit. 

PORCUPINE CAKE. 

Put a sponge cake into a deep glass dish, pour around a glass 
of brandy, and some raisin wine ; after it has soaked up the wine 
and brandy, sprinkle granulated sugar on it, then pour over 
it a rich custard ; fill the top and sides with almonds, blanch 
them and put the small ends up. 

PRESSED CAKE. 

Two cups sugar, two-thirds cup butter, one cup milk, three 
cups flour, four eggs, three teaspoons Cleveland's superior bak- 
ing powder, bake in three jelly tins ; take one-third of it out, 
put spice, fruit and two tablespoons molasses in it, then pat to- 
gether with frosting. The one with the fruit in it, must be in 
the centre. When baked, put the cakes all in one tin, and place 
another tin over them, and press by putting two irons on the 
tin which cover the cake, and let them remain several hours. 
This will not make the cake heavy, but give it a very fine grain. 

GARFIELD CAKE. 

Two eggs, two cups sugar, one-half cup butter, one cup milk, 
three cups flour, two teaspoons Cleveland's superior baking pow- 
der, one cup raisins, one cup walnut meets. 



BREAKFAST, DESSERT AND SUPPER. 59 



JUMBLES IN MUFFIN RINGS. 

Two caps sugar, three eggs, three cups flour, one-half cup 
butter, three teaspoons Cleveland's superior baking powder, a 
little nutmeg; beat the whites of eggs separately, butter muffin 
rings, and bake. 

POUND CAKE No. 2. 

One pound flour, one pound sugar, three-fourths pound but- 
ter, nine eggs, a little nutmeg. 

FAVORITE PUFFS. 

Two and one-half cups water, two cups flour, one cup butter, 
five eggs. Boil the butter and water together, stir in the flour 
while boiling ; after it is cool, add the eggs well beaten, put a 
large spoonful in muffin rings and bake twenty or twenty-five 
minutes in a hot oven. 

Filling for the Puffs. — One pint sweet cream, whites of 
two eggs, whip the cream very stiff, then beat the whites well, 
stir them in the cream, sweeten and flavor with vanilla ; open 
puffs on one side and fill. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

One cup sugar, two cups flour, one tablespoon butter, two 
eggs, one teaspoon cream tartar, one-half teaspoon soda, one-half 
cup milk. Flavor with a teaspoon vanilla. This will make 
cake for three medium sized jelly tins. 

Mixture for the Cakes. — One cup grated chocolate, one 
cup milk, one teaspoon corn starch, dissolved in it ; yolk of one 
egg, one cup sugar, boil until thick, put between the cakes and 
around them, letting the frosting extend about one inch on the 
cake, then make a frosting of the white of one egg. 

This makes a handsome looking and a good cake. 



60 BREAKFAST, DESSERT AND SUPPER. 



SOFT POUND CAKE. 

One pound sugar, one pound flour, one-half pound butter, 
one even teaspoon soda, two teaspoons cream tartar, one cup 
sweet milk, five eggs. Flavor with nutmeg or vanilla. I gen- 
erally put currants or citron in one loaf. This makes two large 
loaves. 

LIGHT LAYER CAKE. 

Four eggs, two coffee cups sugar, three coffee cups flour, one 
coffee cup sweet milk, one coffee cup butter, two teaspoons of 
cream tartar, sifted with the flour ; one teaspoon soda dissolved 
in one tablespoon of hot water, a little salt, flavor to taste. This 
receipt makes two cakes, three layers in each ; put between jelly 
or soft frosting with cocoanut. 

Use the Propeller egg beater. 

LEMON JUMBLES. 

One teacup butter, two teacups sugar, two teaspoons sweet 
milk, two eggs, a piece soda the size of a dice, juice and rind of 
one-half lemon ; make as soft as possible, roll very thin. 
Sprinkle sugar on them before putting in the oven, and-bake 
quickly. 

WALNUT CAKE 

One cup white sugar, two cups flour, one-half cup butter, 
one-half cup sweet milk, two eggs, one teaspoon Cleveland's su- 
perior baking powder, one cup walnut meats, one cup raisins 
chopped fine. 

POLL JELLY CAKE. 

Three eggs, one cup sugar, one cup flour, three tablespoons 
sweet milk, one tablespoon Cleveland's superior baking pow- 
der. 



BREAKFAST, DESSERT AND SUPPER. 61 

ANGELICA WINE JUMBLES. 

One- half cup butter, one-half cup milk, one cup grauulated 
sugar, two eggs, three teaspoons Cleveland's superior baking 
powder. Enough flour to roll out thin ; after they are baked 
dip them in wine, then in granulated sugar. 

SOFT JUMBLES. 

One pint sugar, one half pound butter, one quart and one gill 
flour, one teaspoon soda dissolved in one and one-half gills 
sweet milk, one nutmeg, two teaspoons cream tartar sifted with 
the flour, four eggs. Stir the butter and sugar together to a 
cream and beat in the eggs one by one, add the milk, nutmeg 
and flour ; roll and bake. 

ONE EGG FRUIT CAKE. 

Three tea cups sugar, one egg, one teaspoon mace, piece but- 
ter size of an egg, stir to a cream ; one cup sour milk, one tea- 
spoon soda, three and one-half cups flour, a little salt, two table- 
spoons cinnamon, one teaspoon cloves, one cup raisins, one cup 
currants. 

CHOCOLATE JUMBLES. 

One cup sugar, one-half cup butter, one and one.half cup 
flour, one cup chocolate, two eggs, one teaspoon vanilla, a little 
salt. A nice white frosting improves these jumbles. 

MADEIRA NUT DROP CAKE. 

One-half pound sugar, scant one-half pound butter, one-half 
pound flour, three eggs, one-half pint nuts cut in small pieces. 
Drop off a spoon in small cakes. 



62 BREAKFAST, DESSERT AND SUPPER. 

1 

SPICE CAKES. 

One cup melted butter, one cup sugar, one half cup molasses, 
one-half cup water, one teaspoon cinnamon, one teaspoon ground 
coriander seed, one teaspoon ground caraway seed, one teaspoon 
ginger, one teaspoon soda, one nutmeg, flour. Roll thin and 
bake them quickl} T . 

CHILDREN'S DROP COOKIES. 

One-half cup butter, one cup sugar, two-thirds cup sweet 
milk, yolk of one egg, one teaspoon soda, two teaspoons cream 
tartar, the white of the egg put in before the flour which 
must be well beaten. Two cups flour heaped, drop from a tea- 
spoon on well buttered paper, flavor to taste. Just before put- 
ting in the oven sprinkle on them small sugar plums. 

LADY FINGER CREAM CAKES. 

One-half pound lad} 7 fingers, split them open and lay them 
on a dish, spread jelly on them, then a layer of whipped cream, 
then lady fingers, jelly and cream alternately until your dish is 
rilled. The cream must be whipped very stiff, then sweeten 
and flavor with vanilla. 

OLD FASHIONED. RAISED DOUGHNUTS. 

To one pint bread sponge add one-half cup melted lard, one- 
half teaspoon soda, one cup white sugar, two eggs, one-half tea- 
spoon mace, one-half nutmeg, one teaspoon cinnamon, a little salt. 
Mix in a soft dough, let it rise, knead down, let it rise again, then 
knead and roll out in small round cakes. Fry in hot lard and 
sugar while warm. 



BREAKFAST, DESSERT AND SUPPER. 68 



CHRISTMAS COOKIES. 

Two cups sugar, two-thirds cup water, one-half cup of lard, 
one teaspoon soda, one teaspoon caraway seed, and flour to 
roll out ; bake quickly. 

COOKIES. 

One-half cup butter, one-half cap lard, two cups sugar, one 
cup sweet milk, two teaspoons cream tartar, one teaspoon soda, 
one egg, a little nutmeg and salt. 

NEW YORK CREAM CAKES. 

Two and one-half coffee cups water, two coffee cups flour, one 
coffee cup butter, five eggs. Boil the butter and water togeth- 
er, stir in the flour while boiling; after it is cool add the eggs 
well beaten. Pat a large spoonful in muffin rings and bake 
twenty minutes in a hot oven. 

The cream for them is made in this way : Put over the fire 
one cup milk, a teacup of sugar, one egg, mixed with three tea- 
spoons of corn starch and one tablespoon of butter. When cool 
add vanilla to taste, boil a few moments only. Open the cakes 
on one side a little, and fill with this cream. Vanilla must not 
be put in until taken from the fire and cooled. 

NUT CAKES. 

One quart flour, three-fourths pound butter, one pound sugar, 
one and one-half cups hickory nuts, one cup milk, three tea- 
spoons Cleveland's superior baking powder, six eggs. 

CHOCOLATE ICING. 

One cup chocolate, one-half cup milk, yolk of one egg, one 
and one fourth cups sugar. Let it boil sufficiently thick. 



64: BREAKFAST, DESSERT AND SUPPER. 



DOUGHNUTS. 

One quart flour, three teaspoons Cleveland's superior baking 
powder, one coffee cup sugar, two tablespoons melted lard, one 
coffee cup milk, two eggs, one-half teaspoon salt, flavor with 
vanilla or nutmeg. A little more milk may be needed, as they 
must be mixed soft. Cut out in the form of a jumble. 

FRIED CAKES. 

One pint warm water, one pint sweet milk, two pounds sugar, 
one pint lard, one pint yeast, four eggs. When light enough 
to mix, add one nutmeg, one teaspoon soda, a little salt. When 
very light, cut in any shape you choose and fry ; after frying 
roll in sugar. 

CRULLERS. 

One cup sugar, one-third cup butter, one-half cup milk, one- 
third teaspoon soda, one and one-half tablespoons brandy or 
wine, two eggs, nutmeg and salt, flour enough to roll nicely. 

Use the Propeller egg beater. 

WHITE CAKE. 

Whites of four eggs, one coffee cup white sugar, one-half 
coffee cup butter, one-half coffee cup milk, two coffee cups flour, 
two teaspoons of Cleveland's superior baking powder and lemon 
extract. 

YELLOW CAKE. 

One coffee cup sugar, two coffee cups flour, one-half coffee 
cup butter, scant, one-half coffee cup sour milk, one teaspoon 
soda, flavor with vanilla, yolks of four eggs. 

These cakes may be used for layer cakes, and put jelly or 
cocoanut frosting between, if preferred. 



BREAKFAST, DESSERT AND SUPPER. 65 



SOFT GINGERBREAD, No. 1. 

Two-thirds cup butter, two-thirds cup molasses, one cup su- 
gar, one cup sour milk, one tablespoon ginger, four cups flour, 
two eggs, one teaspoon soda. 

SOFT GINGERBREAD, No. 2. 

Two cups molasses, one cup water, not quite one-half cup 
butter, one tablespoon soda, one tablespoon ginger ; to be made 
about as stiff as sponge cake. 

SEED CAKES. 

Five cups flour, two cups sugar, one cup butter, one-half cup 
thick sour milk, one teaspoon soda, one tablespoon caraway 
seeds. Roll out thin and bake well. 

GINGER SNAPS. 

One cup butter, one cup lard, one cup sugar, two cups mo- 
lasses, one tablespoon ginger, a small tablespoon of soda, a little 
salt. Boil molasses, sugar, butter and lard about ten minutes 
or a little less. Mix the soda in a little hot water, add ginger. 
When cool add the flour, mix them pretty stiff; roll out as 
thin as possible and bake quickly. 

ICING. 

Whites of four eggs, one pound powdered sugar. Beat the 
whites on a platter with the sugar, putting in a handful of su- 
gar at a time until all is beaten in. This method of making 
icing I consider far superior to the old way of beating the egg 
first and alone. 



6Q BREAKFAST, DESSERT AND SUPPER. 



DROP GINGER CAKES. 

One cup sugar, two-thirds cup molasses, one-half cup sweet 
milk, one-half cup hot water, twelve tablespoons shortning, two 
teaspoons soda, one teaspoon pulverized alum, one tablespoon 
ginger. Stir about as stiff as pound cake. Set it on ice for one 
or two hours, drop from a small tablespoon on pans a little dis- 
tance from each other and bake quickly. Take one-half of the 
hot water to dissolve the alum in and the other half for the 
soda, a little salt. If preferred, these cakes can be rolled and 
cut out with the cake cutter. They are very nice. 

SOFT FROSTING. 

The white of one egg beaten to a froth, one cup sugar, add 
two tablespoons water, let it come to a boil ; take it from the 
fire, add the egg white hot, and beat till cold. 

ADELMA CAKE. 

One cup sugar, one and one-half cups flour, two teaspoons 
Cleveland's superior baking powder, three eggs, a little salt, 
three tablespoons milk. Bake on three jelly tins. 

Cream to Spread between Cakes. — One small bowl thick 
cream, whip it very stiff, then add sugar and vanilla to taste. 
Have the cakes entirely cold before spreading the cream on. 
Put the cake in cool place until you wish to serve it. 

Sponge cake or Angel's Food cake are both delicious baked 
on jelly tins and this cream between the layers. 

CHOCOLATE ICING. 

One cup grated chocolate, one cup sugar, one tablespoon corn 
starch, one wine-glass water, boil pretty thick. 



BREAKFAST, DESSERT AND SUPPER. 67 



BOSTON EOLLS. 

Two quarts flour, one pint milk, one-half cup sugar (granu- 
lated), one-half cup yeast, one-half teaspoon soda, butter size of 
an egg. Scald the milk, and when lukewarm put it with the 
other ingredients. Mix in enough flour to make a sponge, let 
it rise ten or twelve hours; when light knead in the rest of the 
flour and let it rise again till light ; then knead about ten min- 
utes, roll out one-half inch thick, cut into circles the size of a 
small tea saucer. Spread with butter, double the buttered sur- 
faces together and let them rise a few hours. This is not much 
work biit very delicious. 

OYSTER SHORT CAKE. 

One quart flour, three teaspoons Cleveland's superior baking 
powder, one tablespoon butter, a pinch salt, enough milk to 
moisten well. Roll about one inch thick and bake on two 
medium sized pie plates. While these are baking take one- 
quart oysters, one cup water, salt and pepper, one cup milk, one- 
half cup butter, two tablespoons flour, add together and boil 
up once. When the cakes are done split them open and spread 
butter on the lower crust, then a layer of oysters, then the up- 
per crust on, placing the inner side up, then more oysters on 
the top. Put the remaining oysters and gravy in a gravy bowl 
and add to the cake when needed. 



DROP BISCUITS. 

One quart flour, a piece butter size of an egg, a piece of lard 
same size, three teaspoons Cleveland's superior baking powder, 
mix with sweet milk about as stiff as pound cake. Drop a 
tablespoonful at a time a short distance apart on buttered tins. 
Bake in a quick oven. 



BREAKFAST, DESSERT AND SUPPER. 



STEAWBEEEY SHORTCAKE. 

One quart flour, three teaspoons Cleveland's superior baking- 
powder, butter the size of an egg, a little salt, mix with sweet 
milk. Bake this quickly on two pie plates. While they are 
baking, hull, wash and mash* three pints strawberries, add 
enough sugar to sweeten them well. After the biscuits are 
baked, split them open, spread butter on the lower one, then 
a layer of strawberries, then the upper crust, placing the inner 
side up, spread butter, then another layer of strawberries. This 
receipt will make two common sized or one large cake. If any 
berries are left put on table to replenish, if needed, and last 
though not least, have a pitcher of good sweet cream to eat on 
it If cream is plenty, whip a pint, sweeten and pour over it. 

CEEAM SHOETCAKE. 

One quart flour, .three teaspoons Cleveland's superior baking 
powder, piece of lard or butter the size of an egg, mix soft with 
milk or water, a little salt, roll out on two pie plates. When 
done split them open carefully and put between and over this 
mixture : 

Mixture. — -One pint cream, one pint milk, one-half cup but- 
ter, one. heaping tablespoon flour. Put milk, cream and butter 
on the fire in a Farina kettle, reserving one-half cup of the milk 
to blend the flour in. When they commence to boil stir in the 
flour and milk, boil all together to about the consistency of a 
boiled custard. Then put between and over the shortcake. 

COEN BEEAD. 

One pint sweet milk, one pint buttermilk or sour milk, one 
pint flour, one quart meal, one-half cup molasses, one heaping 
teaspoon of soda, one teaspoon salt, steam three hours. 



BREAKFAST, DESSERT AND SUPPER. 69 



BAPTIST CAKE. 

• 

One quart flour, piece of butter one-half the size of a hen's egg 
rubbed into the flour; a little salt, two spoons Cleveland's supe- 
rior baking powder heaped, wet with milk so it can be easily 
rolled out, roll thin, say one-fourth inch thick, and cut into 
squares. Fry in lard as you do doughnuts, quickly as possible, 
and have them well done. 

Dip or Gravy for it. — Two tablespoons butter, two of 
flour, rub together and stir in one quart boiling milk until it 
thickens a little, put cakes in a tureen and *pour gravy over 
them and add a little salt. 



OYSTER OMELET. 

Stew one quart large oysters long enough to plump them, 
with one-half cup milk, one-half cup butter, one tablespoon 
flour, a little salt and pepper ; leave this on the stove and pro- 
ceed to make the omelet. Beat the yolks of six eggs light with, 
two tablespoons of cream or milk, a little salt ; lastly beat the 
whites of the eggs very stiff and stir with the yolks and milk, 
have in your sauce pan a piece of butter the size of an egg, and 
when this is hot pour the mixture in ' and then cover the top 
with oysters drained from the stew ; turn the omelet one-half 
over as you would a turnover and place on a well buttered plat- 
ter ; after this is done take the remainder of the oysters and 
gravy and pour over it. It is a delicious dish. 

, CLAM FRITTERS. 

Three dozen clams chopped fine, one quart sifted flour, two 
eggs, one pint of the clam liquor, soda size pf a large pea dis- 
solved in a little hot water ; mix the clams well through the bat- 
ter and drop from the spoon in a pot of boiling lard. 



70 BREAKFAST, DESSERT AND SUPPER. 



VANITY BISCUIT. 

One pint flour, one pint milk, three eggs, one-half teaspoon 
salt. 

OYSTEES ON TOAST. 

• 

One quart oysters, one cup sweet cream, one-half cup butter, 
pepper and salt, toast* The oysters must be put into a hot 
skillet with one cup cream and one-half of the butter, pepper 
and salt. Toast as many slices of bread as you need, then take 
the remaining one-half of the butter, add to it one-half cup boil- 
ing water, pour this on the toast to moisten it, then pour the 
oysters and cream over it. 

HAM TOAST. 

Chop the ham fine, then boil milk sufficient to soak the re- 
quired quantity of toast, when boiling hot dip nicely toasted 
slices of bread in the milk and as each piece is laid on the plat- 
ter spread with a little melted butter. When all the toast is 
moistened add two well beaten eggs to the milk and ham that 
remains, stir constantly, and as soon as it thickens pour over 
the toast and serve. 



SUNDRIES. 



MOONSHINE. 



Beat the whites of three eggs very light, sweeten to taste, 
then slice in thin pieces two bananas, and stir into it, or 
if you choose take two oranges and cut in small pieces, sweeten 
and add to it. Do not make it until just before going to table, 
it is not only a handsome dish but very delicious. 

LEMON JELLY. 

Soak one box Cox's gelatine in one pint cold water, make with 
two good sized lemons a quart of rich lemonade, let it come to 
a boil, stir in the gelatine and strain it in a mould previously 
wet with cold water. 

GEAPE MARMALADE. 

Take grapes and pulp them. Put a little water on them, 
barely enough to cover ; let them cook slowly until the seeds 
separate easily, then rub them through a sieve and the seeds 
will all come out. Cook the skins tender, putting a little water 
on them to prevent their burning, then add the pulps and three- 
fourths pound sugar to one pound fruit. Boil until thick. 

RED RASPBERRY JAM. 

Six pounds berries, four pounds sugar, boil berries twenty 
minutes then add sugar and boil until thick. 



72 BREAKFAST, DESSERT AND SUPPER. 



APPLE SNOW. 

Four large snow apples, bake and scrape out the pulp and 
add one-half coffee cup sugar and the whites of two eggs beat- 
en together for one-half hour or until it is very light. This 
is delicious with cake for dessert or for tea. 

PHILADELPHIA CHICKEN. 

Boil one chicken very tender with one small onion, then take 
out the bones, cut it in long, good sized pieces. Slice lemon 
very thin and line a deep dish with it, then place the chicken in 
the dish on the lemon and prepare the mixture for it which is 
made in this way : Boil the water the chicken was boiled in 
down to about a pint, then season it with a little mace, pepper 
and salt. In the meantime, have one-half a box of Cox's gela- 
tine soaked in about one-half pint of cold water. Pour this in 
the chicken gravy, strain and pour over the chicken, place it 
where it will be cold and turn out on the dish you wish to serve 
it on. 

CITRON PRESERVES. 

Eight pounds citron, six pounds granulated sugar, three lem- 
ons, one quart water. Cut the citron in, any form you wish, 
about one-half inch thick, boil 30 minutes in alum water, a des- 
sert spoon of pulverized alum to one gallon water, then take 
them out, put them in another water, and soak over night ; in 
the morning put them in fresh water in the preserving kettle 
and boil them until they have changed color and are pretty 
soft. In the meantime slice the lemons very thin, extract the 
seeds and boil them in a cup of water until soft ; then take out 
the citron, strain the water, take one quart of it, add sugar and 
lemons with the lemon water, boil slowly until the citron is 
transparent, then can them. 



BREAKFAST, DESSERT AND SUPPER. 73 



APPLE FLOAT. 

Stew one quart dried apples until perfectly tender, flavor 
with extract of lemon and sweeten, spread on a flat dish to cool, 
mash fine with a silver fork. Beat the whites of eight eggs very 
light and add to the apple, after thoroughly mixing ; turn into a 
glass dish and eat with sweetened cream. 

LEMON ICE. 

Make a strong but sweet lemonade, and after putting it in 
the freezer add the whites beaten to a stiff froth of two eggs, to 
one quart lemonade. It is very nice to cut up peaches or 
oranges, and let them lie in sugar all day and stir into lemon- 
ade not quite as strong as when made clear, also frozen. 

APPLE LEMON. 

Pear and quarter eight apples, then put one-half pound cof- 
fee sugar into, your preserving kettle with one quart water ; 
when it boils drop the apples in and le| them remain until ten- 
der, then take them out carefully and place them in your glass 
dish ; in the meantime have one lemon sliced very thin, and boil 
it in a teacup of water until tender, then add to the syrup, boil 
up once or twice and pour over the apples. 

NEWPOET ORANGE JELLY. 

Three oranges, two lemons, one-half box gelatine, one pound 
granulated sugar. Put in one-half pint of water the rind and 
juice of the oranges and boil until it becomes quite yellow. 
Then grate the rind of the lemons, add the juice and mix with 
the orange water. Put a cup of cold water on one-half box gel- 
atine, soak for one hour, then add one pint boiling water with 
the sugar, and wet the moulds and strain the jelly into them. 
This quantity makes three pints jelly. 



74 BREAKFAST, DESSERT AND SUPPER. 



CHICKEN SALAD. 

Boil two chickens, remove the skin and bones ; when cold, 
chop quite fine, add the white part of three bunches of celery. 
Pour over the above, a short time before serving, yolks of sev- 
en hard boiled eggs mashed fine and smooth, into which rub a 
gill of mixed mustard ; add a small cup sweet oil or a cup of 
melted butter, one-half pint vinegar, one teaspoon salt ; one- 
fourth teaspoon cayenne pepper. In summer, lettuce can be used 
or cabbage instead of celery. 

CHICKEN CHOWDER 

Take small pieces of chicken and cook tender, cut in dice 
pieces and allow one oyster cut fine to one shell. Then prepare 
the mixture, which n>ust be made of drawn butter, (use milk 
instead of water,) season this and turn it on the chicken and 
oysters ; then fill the shells, place a few bread crumbs on the 
top, and bake brown. 

PRESSED CHICKEN. 

Divide a chicken in the usual manner, boil until tender, then 
remove the skin and bones, cut fine, season with pepper, salt 
and butter ; let the water boil away that the chicken was boiled 
in, until only sufficient remains to moisten it, thicken as for the 
table, mix thoroughly, press in a shallow dish and when cold 
cut in thin slices. This is nice for tea. 

BREAKFAST OMELET. 

Three pounds of raw steak chopped fine, six butter crackers 
rolled very fine, four eggs, two tablespoons melted butter, season 
with salt and pepper, put in shape, butter a tin and bake, bast- 
ing often. 



BREAKFAST, DESSERT AND SUPPER. 75 



OYSTER SALAD. 

One quart oysters scalded in their liquor enough to plump 
them, pour in a colander to drain, when entirely cold cut them 
in small pieces and mix with a cup of cold chicken or turkey 
and a cup of celery, all cut as for chicken salad. Make your 
dressing of three hard boiled eggs, one tablespoon butter, two 
tablespoons mustard, four tablespoons vinegar, pepper and salt 
to taste, pour over oysters and chicken just before using. 

DEVILED CLAMS. 

Wash two dozen clams and place them in a dripping pan in a 
hot oven long enough to open, then take out the clams, sepa- 
rate them from their liquor and chop fine, add about a pint of 
bread crumbs, then the liquor and a little pepper, butter the 
shells, and put this mixture in on the top of each one ; place a 
small piece of butter and a few more bread crumbs, bake about 
ten minutes in a hot oven. They are delicious. 

MOCK TERRIPIN 

Cut lamb, mutton or chicken into small pieces, dredge with 
flour and season with pepper and salt, put into a small sauce 
pan, cover with water, add a piece of butter as large you like. 
A few blades of mace, two or three cloves, two hard boiled eggs, 
stew all slowly ten or fifteen minutes. Just before taking from 
the fire add one glass sherry wine. 

PRESSED BEEF. 

Take a shank of beef and two pigs feet, boil until tender, 
chop fine and season to taste with sage, salt and pepper, put 
in a deep dish to press. This is an excellent relish for break- 
fast or tea. 



76 BREAKFAST, DESSERT AND SUPPER. 



TURBOT. 

Take a large white fish, steam until tender, take out bones 
sprinkle with salt and pepper, heat a pint of milk, thicken with 
one-fourth pound flour, when cool, add two eggs and one-fourth 
pound butter, put in a baking dish a layer of fish made fine ; 
then a layer of sauce, season with a very little onion, parsely 
and thyme as you like. Cover top with bread crumbs, bits of 
butter, pepper and salt, bake one-half hour. 

POTATO SALAD. 

Boil potatoes so that a fork will pass through them rather slow- 
ly ; let them cool thoroughly or stand over night, then cut in small 
bits like dice. If onions are liked, chop one very fine and add 
to them. Make a dressing by taking one teaspoon of ground 
mustard, and rubbing it well with a teaspoon of salt, a little 
white pepper, and two raw eggs well beaten. Add slowly one- 
half teacup best salad oil and two tablespoons vinegar ; thick 
cream can be substituted for the oil. Beat this until very stiff 
and turn over the potatoes. Small pieces of cold veal or beef 
is an improvement to it. 

CROQUETTES. 

Mince beef, veal or lamb as fine as possible, season with salt 
and pepper, a small dash of powdered mace, a piece of onion 
the size of a pea grated. Then make for it a sauce in this way : 
Take a large tablespoon of butter, two tablespoons of flour, one- 
half tumbler of cream or milk, a little salt ; mix smoothly to- 
gether and boil, stirring all the time. When you take it from 
the fire put in the yolks of two eggs well beaten, and stir the 
meat thorough. When hard and cold shape and fry in hot 
lard. 



BREAKFAST, DESSERT AND SUPPER. 77 



CHICKEN CROQUETTE. 

Take the white and dark meat of a nicety roasted or boiled 
chicken, chop it fine and season highly with pepper and salt, 
moisten it with a little of its own gravy and form it into oval 
balls ; dip them into a well beaten egg, and then roll them in 
cracker crumbs and fry in boiling hot butter. Serve on a hot 
platter and ornament the dish with sprigs of parsley. 

COLD BOILED HAM. 

To use up bits of cold boiled ham, reject most of the fat, and 
to a coffee cup full of ham chopped very fine add the yolks 
of four eggs, a cup of milk, with one tablespoon flour, stir 
smoothly in it a little pepper, then add the whites of the eggs 
beaten stiff. Drop in the frying pan in one-half lard and one- 
half butter sufficient to fry ; when cooked enough to turn, do 
so being careful not to brown them too much, an onion may 
be chopped with the meat, if the flavor is liked. 

SCALLOPED OYSTERS. 

Butter your dish, put in a layer of oysters, then breadcrumbs 
and small pieces of butter and pepper on each layer; repeat un- 
til your dish is full, with alternate layers of oysters and bread 
crumbs. Put butter on top and pour the oyster liquor over the 
whole. Have the crumbs brown a little on top. It should be 
rather dry when done. 

CLAM CHOWDER. 

One peck clams, cut them out raw, chop them, save the liquor, 
pare and slice eight potatoes and three onions, put them in a 
kettle with a quart of boiling water, add the chopped clams and 
their liquor, a piece of butter the size of an egg, add one pint of 
milk just before serving, boil potatoes and onions until done 
before putting in the clams. 



BREAKFAST, DESSERT AND SUPPER. 



VEAL LOAF. 

Three pounds raw veal chopped fine, three eggs, two table- 
spoons milk or cream, butter, the size of an egg, two slices raw 
pork chopped very fine, mix all together, one teaspoon pepper, 
one teaspoon sage, one tablespoon salt, bread crumbs to be put 
on the top. Form into a loaf between two and three inches 
thick, bake two and one-half hours. Baste with butter and 
water while baking. 

VINEGAR CANDY. 

Two cups sugar, one cup vinegar, one teaspoon water, one 
teaspoon butter, flavor to taste. 

CREAM CANDY. 

One full teaspoon butter, one pound granulated sugar, one 
teaspoon cream tartar, one tablespoon vinegar, one and one- 
half tumblers water. When nearly done add one and one-half 
tablespoon extract of lemon. Cook without stirring, try it in 
cold water as you do molasses candy and pull it until it is very 
white. 

TAFFA. 

Two cups sugar, one-half cup vinegar, one-half cup water, 
a piece butter size of a small egg. 

MACAROONS. 

Half pound sugar, half pound of pounded almonds, after be- 
ing blanched, the whites of three well beaten eggs. 

KISSES. 
Whites of four eggs, beaten very stiff, one-half pound sugar. 



BREAKFAST, DESSERT AND SUPPER 79 



CHOCOLATE CREAM DROPS. 

Two cups granulated sugar, one-half cup milk, put them in a 
saucepan and heat until it boils, then boil hard for five min- 
utes, set the pan in a dish of cold water, stir until the mixture 
creams and cools enough to handle them, mould into small 
drops, laying them on a buttered platter, flavor as you wish, 
take one-half cake baker's chocolate, grate fine, put in a bowl 
and set in the top of a steaming kettle until dissolved, then 
take the creams one at a time, and drop in the chocolate, roll 
over quickly, take out with a fork and slip on a buttered plat- 
ter. Be careful not to let the chocolate cook or it will harden. 

CARAMELS. 

One coffee cup sweet milk, one coffee cup molasses, one and 
one-half coffee cups brown sugar ; boil together fifteen minutes, 
then add a piece of butter the size of an english walnut, rolled 
in a tablespoon of flour ; in the meantime melt a cake of bak- 
ers chocolate, and add it to the other ingredients, boil till thick 
and add a tablespoon of vanilla, try it as we do molasses candy 
pour it into square tins well buttered. When nearly hard, cut 
it into inch squares. 

COCOANUT CANDY. 

Boil one pound granulated sugar with one grated cocoanut 
and the milk of the nut, boil slowly until thick, pour it out on 
buttered plates. 

COCOANUT DROPS. 

Take one cocoanut, grate and dry it a little, then mix with 
the beaten whites of two eggs, sixteen teaspoons powdered su- 
gar, make them in small balls and bake quickly 



80 BREAKFAST, DESSERT AND SUPPER. 



COCOANUT DROP COOKIES. 

One-half pound grated cocoanut, one-third pound sugar, two 
eggs, one tablespoon flour, drop on buttered pans and bake 
quickly. 

MOLASSES CANDY. 

Two cups New Orleans molasses, two-thirds cup coffee su- 
gar, butter the size of a hen's egg. 

AN EXCELLENT SUMMER BEER. 

Burdock seeds, one ounce, dandelion roots, two ounces, but- 
ternut bark, two ounces, sassafras root bark, one ounce, boil 
these in two gallons water for one hour. Strain through fine 
cloth and stir in ; ginger, one tablespoon, molasses, one quart, 
add one teacup yeast, skim off the skum that rises from the 
first working, and cork up tight, as soon as it is clear. Keep 
in a cool place after it has worked. 

Drink as much as you like. 

SODA CREAM. 

Four quarts water, six pounds coffee sugar, six ounces tar- 
taric acid, whites of five eggs beaten to a stiff froth, six cents' 
worth of oil of wintergreen cut in alcohol. Mix all together 
and cork in a jug. When wanted for use pour a little in a tum- 
bler, add a pinch of soda for foam. It is a pleasant and healthy 
drink for warm weather. 

, PLUM CATSUP. 

Stew plums until soft, rub them through a colander, six 
pounds plums to three pounds sugar, cinnamon, cloves and al- 
spice to taste. Cook one hour, and bottle when cool. 



BREAKFAST, DESSERT AND SUPPER. 81 



TOMATO CATSUP. 

To every gallon of tomatoes put four tablespoons salt, four 
tablespoons black pepper, one tablespoon cayenne pepper, three 
tablespoons mustard, one-half tablespoon ground cloves, the 
same of alspica After having washed and cut up the tomatoes, 
boil them about twenty minutes, strain them, add the spice, &c., 
and simmer the whole together slowly three hours, then bottle 
and seal. 

PICKLES MIXED. 

Thirty large cucumbers cut in pieces, two large heads of 
cauliflowers, two quarts small onions, four quarts small cucum- 
bers, half a pint white mustard seed, one-half cup ground black 
pepper, one-half cup cinnamon, one cup tumeric. Pack pickles, 
cauliflowers and onions in salt over night. Take one cup salt 
and mix through them ; they will make their own brine. In 
the morning drain them out ; put them in fresh water and soak 
for a day or two. Change the water twice a day until they are 
fresh enough, then drain them very dry ; put in a large jar, put- 
ting the spices in alternately with the other ingredients. Then 
boil six quarts vinegar with three pounds brown sugar and 
pour over while hot. Do this three mornings in succession. 

SWEET PICKLES. 

Take ripe cucumbers, pare them, cut out the seeds, cut in 
strips, soak in brine 24 hours, then put them in vinegar and 
water, equal parts. After having done this ; put them in sweet- 
ened vinegar, the same as any sweet pickles, and cook until ten- 
der, one quart vinegar, three pounds coffee sugar, one table- 
spoon ground cinnamon, tie it in a cloth, also a few whole cloves, 
and boil altogether until clear and done. This receipt would 
require twelve ordinary sized ripe cucumbers. 



82 BREAKFAST, DESSERT AND SUPPER. 



CUCUMBER SALAD. 

One dozen ripe cucumbers, wash, pare and cut in strips, then 
into small pieces about the size of dice, taking out all the seeds, 
twelve large white onions chopped, six large green peppers 
chopped, one-fourth pound each of white and black mustard 
seed, one gill celery seed. After having prepared the cucum- 
bers, onions and peppers, add one teacup salt and put them in 
i cotton bag to drain for twenty-four hours. After this is done 
add the spices and celery seed, pack in a jar and fill with good 
cold vinegar. 

SWEET PICKLED TOMATOES. 

One-half bushel of green tomatoes sliced, six onions sliced, 
strew a cup of salt over and let them remain all night, drain off 
in the morning, then take two quarts of water and one quart, 
vinegar, boil them in this fifteen or twenty minutes. After 
boiling, put them in a sieve to drain them, take four quarts 
vinegar, one-half pound white mustard seed, four pounds coffee 
sugar, two tablespoons ground alspice, two tablespoons cinna- 
mon, two tablespoons ginger, two tablespoons mustard, one 
tablespoon ground cloves, one teaspoon cayenne pepper ; put all 
in a kettle, cook slowly about thirty minutes. 

PICKLE LILLY. 

One peck green tomatoes, chopped, one teacup salt, cover 
with water and stand twenty-four hours ; then take out and 
rinse with clear water, chop six red peppers, six onions, one 
cabbage, put all in a kettle and cover with equal parts of vine- 
gar and water, scald about twenty minutes, then drain, and add 
one pint of molasses, one tablespoon ground cloves, one table- 
spoon horse raddish, two ounces white mustard seed ; put in a 
jar and cover with cold vinegar. 



BREAKFAST, DESSERT AND SUPPER. 83 



CHILI SAUCE. 

Ten pounds tomatoes, two pounds onions, seven ounces 
green peppers without seeds, six ounces sugar, four ounces salt 
one and one-half pints vinegar. Slice tomatoes, chop onions 
and peppers, boil all together several hours or until quite thick 
This makes three or four quarts. 

FRENCH PICKLES. 

One peck green tomatoes chopped, sprinkle a little salt over 
them ; let them stand over night, drain quite dry, cook until ten- 
der, then strain through a colander. Add one head cabbage, 
two heads celery, one-half dozen green peppers ; cabbage, pep- 
pers and celery all to be chopped fine ; one gallon vinegar, one 
pound brown sugar, small box mustard, one-half cup grated 
horse radish. Scald together and pour on tomatoes. 

SPICED TOMATOES. 

Five pounds tomatoes, three and one-half pounds sugav, one 
pint vinegar, one-half ounce ground cinnamon, one-half ounce 
ground cloves. Remove the skin from the tomatoes and boil 
alone until very soft, then strain ; add the spices and boil three 
hours. 

SALAD FOR CABBAGE. 

Two tablespoons sweet oil, butter or cream, one-half tablespoon 
mustard, rub them together with a teaspoon of salt, two eggs 
beaten very light, add to the above six tablespoons vinegar and 
two of sugar, mix well together, put in an earthen stewpan put 
over the fire and stir constantly with a wooden spoon until it is 
of the consistency of thick cream, strain and put away to cool. 
One-half cabbage. 



84 BREAKFAST, DESSERT AND SUPPER. 



TOMATO EELISH. 

Twenty-four large peeled ripe tomatoes, four green peppers 
chopped fine, four onions chopped, two tablespoons salt, four 
tablespoons sugar, four cups vinegar ; boil three hours. 

PICKLED PEACHES. 

Four pounds sugar, one quart vinegar ; spice them by stick- 
ing one clove in each peach. Pour the vinegar and sugar over 
them cold. Set the jar in a pot of boiling water and keep them 
there until they boil nicely and are tender. A little cinnamon 
tied in a cloth and boiled with them is an improvement. 

CHOW-CHOW. 

One quart large cucumbers sliced, two quarts small ones 
whole, two quarts small onions, three quarts green tomatoes 
sliced, three heads cauliflower, six large green peppers, one and 
one-half gallons vinegar, tweaty-four tablespoons mustard, one 
coffee cup flour, two teacups sugar, one ounce tumeric. Soak 
the vegetables in a weak brine over night, in separate dishes ; 
cook in the brine they soak in separately. Stir the tumeric, 
flour, mustard and sugar with part of the vinegar, adding the 
rest slowly. Cook it fifteen minutes and pour it over the vege- 
tables, then boil all together in a pail. Set in a kettle of boil- 
ing water until thick enough. 

GKEEN TOMATOES. 

To one gall, green tomatoes, chopped fine and pressed as dry 
as possible, three peppers chopped, three onions chopped, one 
pint grated horse raddish, one-half pint black mustard seed, 
one tablespoon black pepper, two tablespoons cloves, one table- 
spoon alspice. Put in a jar and cover with cold vinegar. 



BREAKFAST, DESSERT AND SUPPER. 85 



TOMATO PICKLES. 

Take tomatoes two-thirds ripe, when they begin to get a little 
red ; prick them with a fork in several places, put them in a 
strong brine and let them remain eight days, then put them in 
vinegar ; if strong, must be reduced one-third with water. Let 
them remain twenty-four hours ; remove them from this and 
put them in a stone jar; to a peck of tomatoes put two ounces 
mustard, one ounce ground cloves, one ounce ground pepper, 
laying alternately a layer of tomatoes and spice, pour on cold 
vinegar ; they will be ready for use in one week. The brine 
should be prepared by putting in as much salt as will dissolve 
and bear up an egg. 

CORN PUDDING. 

To be eaten with meat. Two cups grated corn, one cup 
milk, one tablespoon sugar, two teaspoons even full salt, one 
well beaten egg, a piece butter the size of an egg, a little pep- 
per; bake one hour. 

DRESSING FOR CABBAGE. 

One cup cream, one-half cup vinegar, two tablespoons sugar, 
two teaspoons mustard, one teaspoon salt. 

FRENCH LOAF. 

Put a layer of sliced tomatos in a pudding dish, a layer of 
onions sliced very thin, a little pepper and salt, then spread two 
slices bread thick with butter, lay these on, then another layer 
of onions and tomatoes, and so on, until your dish is full, bake 
from one to two hours according to the size of the loaf. Can- 
ned tomatoes for the loaf are as good as fresh ones. The top 
layer should be tomatoes. 



86 BREAKFAST, DESSERT AND SUPPER. 



CELERY SLAW. 

Cut fine two bunches celery, chop one-half head cabbage, 
make a dressing of three hard boiled eggs, one teaspoon made 
mustard, one teaspoon sugar, two tablespoons melted butter, 
salt, pepper and vinegar. 

PICKLED OYSTERS FOR KEEPING. 

Separate the oysters from the liquor, pour boiling water on 
them, stir them well in it and rinse in cold water, put them in 
a kettle with barely enough water to cover, mixing with it one- 
half tablespoon salt to every one hundred oysters, boil up suffi- 
cient to plump them, take out and spread on a moulding board, 
cover with a cloth. To every pint of the oyster liquor add one 
quart vinegar not too strong, one tablespoon salt, one tablespoon 
whole cloves, one tablespoon whole black pepper, one teaspoon 
of whole mace. Boil liquor, vinegar and spices together, and 
when hot throw in the oysters and let them remain in it. 

SPICED CURRANTS. 

Five pounds fruit, four pound sugar, one pint vinegar, one- 
half ounce cinnamon, one-half ounce cloves ; boil three hours. 

COTTAGE PIE. 

Mince any kind of cold meat together, put it about one and 
one-half inches deep, in a pie dish ; cover with gravy, a little 
salt and pepper. Then put on it a thick covering of mashed 
potatoes, cross it in diamonds with a knife. Bake till it is crisp 
and brown on the top. 

Sour cream or milk may be restored by mixing with it 
carbonate of magnesia, allowing one heaping teaspoon to every 
quart of cream or milk. 



BREAKFAST, DESSERT AND SUPPER. 87 



MACARONI. 

Take two large handful of macaroni, break into small pieces, 
put over the fire with just enough water to cover, boil soft, then 
take one egg, two teaspoons salt, two teaspoons dry mustard, a 
piece of butter size an egg, small teacup milk, take a little hot 
water off the macaroni into the dish with the other ingredients, 
mix altogether and simmer a few moments, after this is done, 
place all in a well buttered quart dish for baking, grate a thick 
layer of cheese on the top. 



AGENTS WANTED. 



^ Copying ^ 

A few reliable Agents wanted to 
represent the business 

ft^" For terms and prices address, 

G. W. HOFFMAN, 

109 & 111 GENESEE ST., AUBURN, N.Y. 



TO ANY SIZE, AND FINISHED IN 



am 




SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. 

Q. W. HOFFMAN, Manager. 



FREDERICK ALLEN, 

Bookseller and Stationer, 



ALSO 



Circulating Library, 

1 10 Genesee Street, 

Auburn, N. Y. 



BUNDY'S 

lderful Clock ! 




Always on Exhibition at my 

JEWELRY STOEE, 

90 Genesee Street, 

AUBURN, N. Y., 
Where will be found 

A FULL LINE OF 

JEWELRY, 

Watches, Clocks, Etc. 

Repairing a Specialty. 



LOOK AT THIS! 



For making these choice recipes use otily 

PURE SPICES, 

CREAM TARTAR, 

AND 

ENGLISH SODA, 

which can be procured at the reliable 

DRUG STORE 

OF 

LEWIS HUNT, 

7 J GENESEE STREET, - AUBURN, N. Y. 

Try Our Baking Powder. 

Clioate & Brother, 

DEALERS IN 

PI ardware, Stoves, 

TIN, COPPER AND SHEET IRON WARE, 
Paints, Oils, Sash, Glass, Belting, &c 

88 GENESEE STREET, 

AUBURN, N. Y. 



Sole Agents for the Celebrated Happy Thought Range, 
the Cheapest and Best in the Market. 



PROF. O. v. LINGKE, 



of Auburn, is the best 



r\ 



TEACHER OF THE PIAN 



AND 

Cultivation of the Voice 

in the County of Cayuga and West of New York. Established since 1853. 
Reputation as High as the Highest. Unparalleled Success. Every- 
body knows who he is. No one Questions his ability. 

SATISFACTION GUARANTEED ! 

B3P~Orders left at P. C. Van Laer's Music Store at Auburn, or sent to Prof. 
O. V. Lingke, Auburn, N. Y., will be promptly attended to. 



T^e Se^t # t^e d^ekpe^t ! 



4 



m 



I Now have on Hand a Large Stock of 



U 



JJ 




ur 



CERIES ! 



which I offer at Bottom Prices for Cash. Also a Large Stock of 



Wooden ^Willow Ware, 

which I offer to my Customers at a small advance on First Cost. 

GIVE ME A TRIAL ORDER. 

JOHN D. SIMPSON, 

93 Genesee Street, Auburn, N. Y. 



W. M. WILLIAMS, 

Dealer in Shelf and Heavy 

Hardware 

Iron, Steel and Nails, 
Stoves, Furnaces, Ranges, Etc., Etc. 

PLUMBING, STEAM and GAS FITTING. 

House Furnishing Goods of all Kinds. 
73 Genesee Street, Auburn, N. Y. 

Charles A # 3 m ^h, 

DEALER IN 

Diamonds^ Watches, 

Fine Jewelry, 

SILVER AND PLATED WARE, 

FANCY GOODS, BRONZES, &c. 

105 Genesee Street, Auburn, N. Y. 

All kinds 0/ Watches Repaired, and Warranted. Fine Engraving and Job Work. 



}JL1. kqd }fo% $). Wet^efby, 



DEALERS IN FASHIONABLE 



MILLINEflJ }M FANCY GOODS. 

The Place is Well Known for 

FIRST-CLASS GOODS 



—AND— 

LOW PEIOE8. 



70V2 Genesee-st., 



Auburn, N. Y. 



WM. DUNDON, 

No. 131 Genesee Street, AUBURN, N. Y- 

New Goods Constantly Arriving and all Goods 
Warranted as represented. 

Brackets, Flying Trains, Steamboats, Eand Wagons, Ferry Boats, 
Pianos, Jewelry, Toys, Games, Dolls, Dry Goods, Chairs, 
Tin Goods, Leather Goods, Bags, Musical Instru- 
ments, Mirrors, Rogers Bro.'s Plated Ware, 
Glass Ware, Black Walnut Goods, 

Frames, Brackets, Cutlery, Baskets, Bronze Goods, 
Books, &c, &c. 

Your particular attention is desired to 

^e ^ii\e£t I<ir\e of S^ridy G[ood£ 

ever offered in this city or vicinity. 

Don't Fail to Call and. See Our 5c. Counter. 

J£^~ The Largest Assortment we have ever offered. 






W.G. HOSKINS, 

( Successor to H. J. Brown.) 

GROCER, 

All kinds of Staple and Fancy Gro- 
ceries, at wholesale or retail. 

65 GENESEE STREET, 
Auburn, N. Y. 



flie Great Bankrupt Shoe Store | 

l8 NORTH STREET, AUBURN, N. Y., 
Is the HEAD-QUARTERS for Bargains in 

J3oots, Shoes and Rubbers, 

Trunks, Satchels, Valises, &c. 



The best place in Cayuga County to purchase 
any of the above Goods. 



20 



G. W. INGALLS & CO. 



The Propeller 

Egg Beater! 



Price, 50 Cents. 



BEST IN THE WORLD 



Will send to any respon- 
sible person a Beater by mail, 
post-paid, provided they agree 
to remit the price, 50 cents, 
by mail if satisfactory. 

Address, 

W. E. GROVES, 

South Orange, N.J. 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 




014 487 410 9 



