Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 



SUPPLEMENT 



TO 



THE PEACTICE 



OF 



COOKERY AND PASTRY 



ADAPTED TO THE BUSINESS OF EVERYDAY LIFE. 



By D. WILLIAMSON, 
16 DUNDAS STREET, EDINBURGH. 




EDINBURGH: 
J. MENZIES & CO., 12 HANOVER STREET. 

1881. 



lU . C . fSl 



Copies may be obtained from 
D, Williamson, 16 Dtmdas Street, Edinburgh. 



CONTENTS. 



Soups. 

PAOE 

Clear Soup, ... 1 

Oyster Soup, ... l 

Celery Soup, ... 2 

Brussels Sprout Soup, . 2 

Chantilly Soup, . . 3 

White Haricot Bean Soup, 3 

Maccaroni Soup (Clear), . 3 

Maccaroni Soup (White), . 4 

Crab Soup, ... 4 

Plain White Soup, . . 6 

Tomato Soup, ... 6 

To Clarify Soup or Stock, . 6 

Fish Stock, ... 6 

Custard for Clear Soup, • 6 

Entrees and Made Dishes. 



Cream of Whiting, . 
Sole with Water Souchet, 
Sole (au Gratin), 
Supreme of Fowl, 
Fowl, k la Marengo, . 
Chicken Souffle, 
Chicken Eromeskies, 
Braised Fowl, . 
Zephyr of Chicken, . 



6 

7 
7 
8 
8 
9 
9 
10 
10 



Cutlets of Sweetbreads, 
Cutlets of Rabbit, 
Oysters and Bacon, 
Veal Quenelles, 
Panada, . 
Supreme of Eggs, 
Zephyr of Hare, 
Scollops of Hare, 
Croquettes of Veal, 
Braised Bibs of Beef, 
To Dress Cold Roast Beef, 
Croquettes of Sweetbreads, 
Cucumber P&t4s, 
Lobster Quenelles, . 
Plain Fish Sauce (White), 
Blanquette of Lamb's 

Sweetbreads, 
Croquettes of Potatoes, 
Dutch Sauce, . 
Dressed Ox Cheek, . 
Ox Cheek Another Way, 

Savouries. 

Cheese Ramakins, . 
Scotch Woodcock, . 
Ham Toast, 
Anchovy Eggs, 



PAGE 

11 

12 

12 

12 

13 

13 

13 

14 

15 

15 

16 

16 

16 

17 

17 

18 
18 
18 
19 
20 



20 
21 
21 
21 



IV 


CONTENTS. 






PAGE 




PAGE 


Cheese Custards in Shells, 


22 


Almond Custard Fritters, . 


30 


Finnan Haddock Canapes, 


22 


Stewed Rhubarb, 


30 


Mushroom Toast, 


23 


Sauce Royale for Plum 




Craigie Toast, . 


23 


Pudding, 


30 


Souffle Potatoes, 


23 


German Sauce for Pud- 




Iced Cheese, 


24 


dings, .... 


31 


Dressed Crab, . 


24 


Sauce for Puddings, . 


31 


Cauliflowers au Gratin, 


25 


Orange Jelly with Oranges, 


31 


Puddingrs, Jellies, 


etc. 


Claret Jelly, 

Burnt Almond Charlotte 


32 


Apples -with Rice, 


25 


Russe, .... 


32 


Croquettes of Rice, . 


26 


Coffee Charlotte Russe, 


33 


Lemon Fritters, 


26 


Plain Shape of Cream, 


3a 


Apple Fritters, 


26 


Apple Cheese, . 


33 


Omelette Souffle, 


27 


Pine- Apple Cheese, . 


34 


Albany Pudding, 


27 


Pine- Apple Charlotte Russe, 


34 


Vegetable Marrow Pudding 


J, 28 


To Prepare Chocolate for 




Souffle Pudding, 


28 


Creams, 


35 


Muffin Pudding, 


28 


Iced Souffle (Superior), 


35 


Custard Pudding, 


29 


Pine- Apple Iced Soufll^, . 


35 


Swiss Pudding, 


29 


Lemon Marmalade, . 


36 


Yenus Pudding, 


29 


Spanish Pastry, 


36 



SOUPS. 

Clear Soup. 

Take eight pounds of the hough of beef, and a knuckle 
of veal, cut the meat in pieces from the bones, and put 
all on in a large soup pot, placing the bones at the bottom, 
with eight quarts of cold water. Let it slowly come to 
the boiling point, carefully removing the scum as it rises, 
then add about a pint of cold water, and skim again as it 
comes to the boil, repeating this till it becomes quite 
clear. Add one carrot and one turnip, each sliced ; four 
onions, each cut in two, leaving the skins on; one small 
head of celery, cut in short lengths ; half an ounce of 
whole black pepper, and salt to taste. Let it simmer 
slowly and steadily by the side of the fire for eight hours, 
then strain through a hair-sieve, taking care not to press 
the meat or vegetables, and put it in a cool place for 
twenty-four hours. When it is to be used, remove the 
fat, which should be quite firm, then use a clean kitchen- 
cloth, wrung out of hot water, that every particle may be 
taken clean off. Put it on in a clean pan, keeping back 
the sediment at the bottom, and simmer gently for an 
hour. If not sufficiently transparent, it may be clarified 
in the usual way, but it ought not to be necessary, and 
the flavour of the soup is not improved by the process. 

Oyster Soup. 

Knead two ounces of butter into two ounces of flour, 
put it on to melt -in a stewpan, add one pint of sweet milk, 
stir and let it come to the boil, then add one pint of fish- 
stock and the strained liquor of one tin of oysters. 



2 SO UP 8. 

Season with a little white pepper, grated nutmeg and 
salt if necessary. Let it simmer for about fifteen minutes, 
then add the tin of oysters, after which do not let it boil. 
If liked, a tablespoonful of chopped parsley may be added 
just before serving. 

Celery Soup. 

Cut the white parts of two heads of celery into short 
pieces, put them on in a stewpan with three or four sliced 
onions, one carrot cut in pieces, and about six ounces of 
fat bacon, sliced also, and cut in small pieces. Put the 
cover on the pan, and let sdl fry or simmer together till 
the vegetables become tender, taking care that it does not 
brown. Stir in two tablespoonfuls of flour, then add 
three pints of white stock, and let it boil about an hour 
and a half— skimming ofiP the fat as it comes to the top. 
Pass through a wire sieve, pick out everjrthing but the 
celery, which must be pressed through with a wooden 
spoon into the soup. Before dishing add one teacupful 
of cream ; season to taste with white pepper and salt, and 
serve with small pieces of toast. 

Srussels Sprout Soup. 

Put on one pound of Brussels sprouts in boiling water 
with a little soda, let them boil with the cover off the 
pan till tender, then drain them and pass through a wire 
sieve with a wooden spoon. Put this pur^e into a clean 
pan with three pints of boiling white stock, add a small 
teacupful of good cream, season with a little white pepper 
and salt ; let it get quite hot, but do not allow it to boil. 
Serve with fried sippets. Observe, great care must be 
taken not to let this soup boil, as by boiling it will lose 
the colour, and be unfit to send to table. 



SOUPS. 3 

Chantilly Soup. 

Put on in boiling water two pints of fresh green peas, 
a small carrot cut up, one onion sliced, a small bunch of 
parsley, a little mint, and half a teaspoonful of sugar. 
Let them boil with the cover off the pan till tender, then 
take out the carrot and onion ; drain the peas, and pass 
through a wire sieve. Moisten one dessert-spoonful of 
corn flour with a little stock, and boil it in two pints and 
a half of seasoned white stock. Stir in the pur^e of 
green peas into the boiling stock, but on no account 
allow it to boil after the pur^e is added. 

WMte Haricot Bean Soup. 

Put one quart of cold water on in a stewpan with one 
pound of white haricot beans, one carrot cut in four, one 
small onion, a small bunch of parsley, a pinch of sugar, 
and the same of salt. Let this boil about forty-five 
minutes, or till the water reduces, then add more cold 
water, and repeat till the beans are soft, which takes 
about three hours. When quite ready, drain them through 
a colander ; take out the carrot, onion, and parsley, press 
them through a wire sieve, adding a little stock occasion- 
ally to soften them. Put this pur^e on in a clean stew- 
pan, with one pint and a half of white stock, stir and let 
it simmer for ten minutes, season with pepper and salt, 
and before serving, add a small teacupful of cream. 
This will give about two pints and a half of soup, and if 
too thick, a little more stock may be added, which, of 
course, will increase the quantity. 

Macoaroiii Soup (Clear). 

Put on two ounces of maccaroni in water, with a little 



4 SOUPS. 

salt, let it boil ten minutes, drain, and run cold water on 
it, then let it dry, and cut in pieces about an inch long. 
Put these pieces on again in stock, and simmer slowly for 
twenty minutes, then drain and put thorn in the tureen, 
with fully two pints of boiling clear soup. Serve grated 
Parmesan cheese with it on a separate dish. 

Maccaroni Soup (White). 

Put on four ounces of the best maccaroni in one quart 
of boiling water, let it boil gently for three quarters of an 
hour, then drain and cut in half- inch lengths. Put it on 
again in a quart of white stock, let it simmer gently for 
twenty minutes, then draw to the side of the fire for five 
minutes. Have the yolks of two eggs beaten and mixed 
with half a gill of cream ; add to the soup, along with one 
ounce of grated Parmesan cheese, a little white pepper, 
and a small pinch of cayenne. Stir till thoroughly heated, 
but do not allow it to boil. 

Oral) Soup. 

Take a good weighty crab freshly boiled, remove the 
claws, break them, take out the flesh carefully, separate 
the flakes either with the fingers or two forks, and put 
aside on a plate. Put on in a stewpan two ounces of 
butter with a carrot and turnip each sliced, a small bunch 
of parsley, a dozen white peppercorns, and two blades of 
mace. Let it simmer with the cover on for fifteen minutes, 
being careful not to let it brown, then add two ounces of 
flour, and gradually one quart of white stock. Let it boil 
slowly for an hour, then add the yellow pith from the 
body of the crab along with another quart of stock ; let 
it boil again for fifteen minutes, and press through a wire 
sieve, taking out the vegetables before doing so. Put it 



SOUPS. 5 

on again, let it come to the boil, then draw it to the side 
of the fire ; add the flesh of the crab, with half a gill of 
cream, a few grains of cayenne, and salt if necessary. 
Let it get thoroughly heated, stirring it gently, but it 
must not boil after the flesh of the crab is added. 

Plain White Soup. 

Knead two ounces of butter with two ounces of flour, 
put it on to melt in a stewpan, add one pint of sweet 
milk, stir and let it boil, then add three pints of nicely- 
seasoned white stock, a little grated nutmeg, and salt if 
necessary. Let it boil about fifteen minutes, add a good 
tablespoonful of chopped parsley, and serve. 

Tomato Soup. 

Put on in a stewpan six ounces of thinly-sliced Wilt- 
shire bacon, a large carrot, a small turnip, two onions, all 
cut in pieces, and a few pieces of celery. Let all simmer 
together, with the cover on the pan, for half-an-hour, 
being careful not to let it get brown, then stir in one 
dessert-spoonful of corn flour, add two quarts of good 
stock, and eight or ten fresh tomatoes. Let it boil gently 
for an hour, then take out all the vegetables except the 
tomatoes, and press it through a wire sieve. Season with 
pepper and salt, and serve very hot, with toast cut in dice 
on a separate plate. When fresh tomatoes cannot be got, 
tinned ones may be substituted. 

To Clarify Soup or Stock. 

To each quart of soup allow the white and shell of 
one egg, four ounces of fresh raw meat finely minced, 
and a wineglassful of cold water. Switch all together, 
add to the cold soup, put it on the fire, stir carefully till 



6 entrjSes and made dishes. 

it boils, and let it boil about twenty minutes. Draw it 
to the side for a little, and pour through the tamis. 

Pish Stock. 

Ptit on in cold water the skin, bone, and trimmings of 
fresh cod, haddock, and whiting, with a bunch of parsley, 
an onion, and a few white peppercorns. Let it simmer 
slowly for an hour, strain, and put aside for use. This 
stock is not so good if kept longer than twenty-four hours. 

Custard for Clear Soup. 

Beat up in a basin with a spoon the yolks of four eggs, 
half a gill of stock, a little grated nutmeg and salt. 
Strain through a piece of muslin, pour into a buttered 
custard mould, and steam till quite firm. When cold, 
turn it out and cut into small dice. When wanted, put 
it into the tureen, and pour the boiling soup over it. 
Sufficient for two quarts of soup. This custard may be 
of various colours — ^red by adding pur^e of carrots, green 
by adding pur^e of spinach, before pouring it into the 
mould to steam. 



ENTREES AND MADE DISHES. 

Cream of WMtiiig. 

Pound well in a mortar half a pound of whiting with 
two tablespoonfuls of fish stock made from the trimmings 
of the whiting, then pass through a fine wire sieve. Mix 
it with half a pint of switched cream, and season with 
white pepper, grated nutmeg, and salt. Have ten zephyr 
moulds well buttered, fill them three-quarters full with 



ENTRiJES AND MADE DISHES. 7 

the mixture, put them on in a stewpan with a little boil- 
ing water in the bottom, cover with white paper cut 
exactly the size of the pan, and let them steam slowly for 
twenty minutes. Turn out and dish them in a circle, fill- 
ing the space in the centre with fried parsley. Have 
some white fish sauce prepared, pour it over the zephyrs, 
and on the top of each sprinkle a little pounded lobster 
roe, or finely chopped parsley. If small zephyr moulds 
are not at hand, a single border mould may be used. 

Sole with Water Souchet. 

Glean the sole, take off the dark skin, and put it on a 
gratin dish. Put on to boil small pipes or stripes of 
carrot and turnip in fish stock. When ready, pour it over 
the fish, add a little picked parsley and about half-a-glass 
of sherry. Put another dish on the top, and bake in the 
oven from twenty to twenty-five minutea Serve with 
brown bread and butter. Haddock may be cooked in the 
same way, giving it about fifteen minutes in the oven. 

Sole (au Griatin). 

Butter a gratin dish rather thickly with about two 
ounces of butter, then spread over it a very small onion finely 
minced, a little parsley also finely minced, a few chopped 
mushrooms, and some brown bread crumbs. Cleanse, 
skin, and trim a sole, lay it on the dish, strew a little more 
parsley and bread crumbs over it, put a few small bits of 
butter and some button mushrooms neatly arranged, pour 
in about it one glass of sherry, the same of ketchup, and a 
few drops of the essence of anchovies. Bake in the oven 
twenty-five minutes. It must be sent to table on the dish 
on which it is cooked. A whiting may be done in the 
same way, giving it fifteen minutes in the oven. 



/ 



8 ENTRIES AND MADE DISHES. 

Supreme of Towl. 

Clean and skin a fleshy, tender young fowl, divide the 
breast from the back, and from the breast cut ten fillets. 
Fry these in clarified butter, taking care not to let them 
get brown. Eemove all the flesh from the remainder of 
the. fowl, extract the sinews, pound it in a mortar, and 
pass through a wire sieve. Switch up half-a-pint of 
cream till quite stifle and light, mix with the pounded 
flesh, and season with grated nutmeg, white pepper, and 
salt. Coat the fillets rather thickly with this mixture, then 
ornament them tastefully with stars or diamonds cut 
from truffles and tongue, and put them again in the clari- 
fied butter in the frying pan, or in a slow oven till tender. 
If in the oven, cover with a dish to prevent browning. 
Put on the skin, bones, and giblets with a small onion, a 
few sprigs of parsley, a few blades of mace, and about 
three gills of water, let it boil slowly till the substance is 
extracted and the liquid reduced to half the quantity, 
then strain and skim. Melt two ounces of butter with 
one ounce of flour, add the stock, with a little essence of 
mushrooms and two tablespoonfuls of cream. Let it boil 
five minutes, and if necessary add a little white pepper 
and salt. Fill a croustade with prepared green peas or 
small mushrooms, put it in the middle of the entree dish, 
place the fillets neatly round it, and pour the sauce 
about them. 

Fowl, ^ la Marengo. 

Skin a tender young fowl, cut off the legs, remove the 
bones from them, and divide each in two, thus making 
four pieces ; then cut the breast into four, which, with 
the wings, will make ten altogether. From the remainis 



ENTRIES AND MADE DISHEJ3. 9 

of the fowl, that is the skin, bones, and giblets, make a 
good stock, strain it, put on the pieces of fowl in it, and 
let them simmer slowly till tender. With a cutlet cutter, 
round, square, or oval, cut out about a dozen pieces of stale 
bread, half an inch thick, fry them in boiling fat, and lay 
aside to drain. Cut a carrot and turnip into very small 
dice, put these on separately to boil, with a little salt and 
a pinch of sugar in the water. Make a brown sauce with 
two ounces of butter, and flour sufficient to thicken it ; 
add a little of the stock in which the fowl has been sim- 
mering, a few chopped mushrooms, also a little white 
pepper, and salt if necessary. Dish the pieces of fowl in 
a circle, drain the carrot and turnip, and put them in the 
centre; pour the sauce over the fowl, on which neatly 
arrange the pieces of bread, the one overlapping the other, 
and last of all three poached eggs on the carrot and turnip 
in the centre. The dishing must be done quickly, in order 
to serve it as hot as possible. 

Chicken Souffle. 

To fill sixteen or eighteen cases — pound well in a mor- 
tar six ounces of the remains of cold chicken, mix with it 
four tablespoonfuls of French white sauce (see sauce for 
cutlets of sweetbreads), and pass through a sieve, Separate 
the yolks from the whites of two eggs, mix the yolks with 
the chicken, and season with grated nutmeg, white pepper, 
and salt, switch the whites to a stiff froth, mix together 
carefully, fill the paper cases, strew a little grated cheese 
on the tops, and bake in a moderately quick oven from ten 
to fifteen minutes. Serve immediately on a napkin. 

GMcken £roiiieskies. 

Take the remains of a cold chicken, a few cooked 



10 ENTRIES AND MADE DISHES. 

mushrooms, and a few truffles, and cut them in very small 
dice. Put them on in a saucepan with a little nicely- 
seasoned stiff white sauce, stir till quite hot, pour out 
on a flat dish and set aside to cool. Cut very thin 
slices of fat bacon two inches long, and an inch and a 
half wide, put a teaspoonful of the mixture on each, and 
roU them up like corks. Dip them in frying batter, and 
fry in boiling fat till nicely browned ; put them in the 
oven for a short time to drain, serve on a napkin, and 
garnish with parsley. 

Sweetbread Kromeskies may be done in the same way 
by substituting cooked sweetbreads for chicken. 

Braised Fowl. 

Draw and truss a fleshy young fowl as for boiling, and 
lard it with thin strips of fat bacon. Put a few slices of 
fat bacon in a stewpan, let them melt, then put in the 
fowl, add two bay leaves, one sprig of thyme, a small 
bunch of parsley, two small onions, one small carrot 
sliced, a few peppercorns, and a little salt. Cover closely, 
and let it simmer for an hour, or till the fowl is tender ; 
then take it out, strain and skim the fat off the sauce, and 
put it on again to reduce a little. While the sauce is 
reducing, put the fowl in the oven to brown the strips of 
bacon with which it is larded, then take it out, and serve 
with the sauce poured over it, and quenelles or croquettes 
of veal round it. 

Zephyr of Chicken. 

Eemove the fillets from the breast of two chickens, 
scrape the flesh clean from the sinews, pound it well in a 
mortar, and then rub through a fine sieve ; add to it the 
yolks of two eggs, and season with a little grated nutmeg. 



ENTRIES AND MADE DISHES, 1 1 

white pepper, and salt. Switch up till very stiflF about 
three-quarters of a pint of cream, and mix all together 
carefully. Have the zephyr pans carefully rubbed with 
clarified butter, and ornamented with truffles, fill a little 
more than half, giving them a shake ; place them in a pan, 
cover with white paper, let them steam slowly for about 
twenty minutes, then turn out and dish in a circle, 
filling the space in the centre with green peas or mush- 
rooms, and pour white sauce about the zephyrs. The above 
quantity should be sufficient for a double entree. 

Cutlets of Sweetbreads. 

Soak the sweetbreads for three hours in cold water, 
then put them in boiling water long enough to get firm 
but not hard, put them between two flat dishes or 
boards, with a weight on the top to press them into shape ; 
cut longwise into slices about a quarter of an inch thick, 
and form into neat cutlets of an equal size. Make a 
sauce as follows : — Melt in a pan two ounces of butter, 
stir in flour till pretty stiff, then brown it, add about a 
pint of stock, two bay leaves, a few white peppercorns, a 
few blades of mace, and a little ground white pepper and 
salt, let it boil about ten minutes, take it off, add the yolks 
of fouj eggs, put it through a fine wire sieve, and then 
through a tamis. Dip the cutlets in the sauce, then in 
fine fresh bread crumbs, and lay them aside for an hour 
or even longer ; dip them again in the sauce and bread- 
crumbs, and put them aside again for about an hour, or 
long enough to get firm. Fry them in boiling fat, and 
serve with green peas or mushrooms in the centre of the 
dish, with the cutlets neatly arranged around them. If 
wanted, they may be served with white sauce, made the 



12 ENTRi:E8 AND MADE DISHES. 

same as the foregoing, only cream is added instead of 
yolks of eggs. 

Cutlets of Eabbit. 

Kemove the fillets from the back of a young rabbit, cut 
each across, then from the two thick pieces make six 
slices longwise, and from the two thin four, making in all 
ten cutlets. Dip them in a mixture of beaten egg and 
finely minced parsley, then in equal quajitities of grated 
bread and Parmesan cheese, seasoned with a little pepper 
and salt. Fry in boiling fat, and dish in a circle with 
thin slices of Med bacon of the same size, one between 
each cutlet. Pour brown sauce round them, and 
fill the space in the centre with green peas or dressed, 
maccaxoni. 

Oysters and Sacon. 

Take two dozen large fresh oysters, sprinkle a little 
white pepper on them, then roll each into a very thin 
slice of bacon just large enough to cover the oyster. Dip 
them in beaten egg, then in fine bread-crumbs, and fry 
in boiling fat. Lace them on six short silver skdwers, 
four oysters on each, and garnish with parsley. 

Yeal Quenelles- 
Scrape with a knife on a board half-a-pound of raw 
veal, keeping back the sinews and pieces of skin, pound 
it in a mortar, and pass through a wire sieve, mix with 
it half-a-pound of panada, the yolks of three eggs, and 
the whites of two, about half-a-gill of cream, and a little 
white pepper and salt. Brush the quenelle moulds with 
clarified butter, fill them about two-thirds, put them in d 
saucepan with a little boiling water in it, cover with white 



ENTRiSES AND MADE DISHES. 13 

paper, and steam slowly for twenty minutes. Turn out 
and serve as a garnish or as an entr^. Observe, there 
must be half-a-pound of veal after it has been pounded 
and passed through the sieve. 

Panada. 

Put on in a small saucepan half a pint of water, with 
an ounce of butter and a little salt. Let it come to the 
boil, then stir in flour till pretty stiff and smooth, and put 
it out on a dish to cooL 

Supreme of Eggs. 

Boil five eggs till hard, let them cool, and take the shells 
from them carefully ; cut them across, scoop out the yolks, 
and cut the points off the whites to flatten them for dish- 
ing. Pound the yolks in a mortar with one ounce of 
butter, two ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, the raw 
yolk of one egg, a teaspoonf ul of dry mustard, two table- 
spoonfuls of thick cream, a pinch of cayenne, and a little 
white pepper and salt Pound all well together, fill the 
cups made from the whites, raising them towards the 
centre, and smoothing with a knife dipped in cold water. 
Strew a little grated cheese on them, and put them in the 
oven for ten minutes, but do not colour them. Spread 
what is left of the yolk mixture on the bottom of the 
entree dish. Arrange the eggs on it neatly, put a small 
diamond of beetroot or pickled gherkin on the top of each, 
and serve with Chili vinegar. 

Zephyr of Hare. 

When making hare soup keep back six ounces of the 
finest of the flesh, and from it carefully extract all the 
sinews, then pound it well in a mortar with two table- 

B 



14 ENTRilES AND MADE DISHES. 

spoonfuls of stock, pass it through a fine wire sieve with a 
wooden spoon into a basin. Mix with it one egg, a little 
grated nutmeg, pepper, and salt to taste. Switch up 
till very stiff and light half a gill of cream, and mix care- 
fully and lightly. Ornament the moulds with truffles or 
hard-boiled white of egg, cut in small dice, then three- 
quarters fill them with the mixture, put them in a pan 
with a little boiling water in the bottom, cover with white 
paper, and steam slowly from ten to fifteen minutes. Turn 
out and arrange neatly round a centre of fried chips 
of potatoes. Make a little brown sauce same as for 
scollops of hare, and pour round the zephyrs. 

Scollops of Eare. 

Eemove the fillets from the back of a hare, cut them 
across into slices about half an inch thick, and flatten 
them slightly with the handle of a knife dipped in water. 
Brown two ounces of butter in a saucepan ; in it brown 
the scollops nicely on both sides, then take them out, 
and dredge in a little flour to thicken it, add one gill of 
brown stock or hare soup, which is generally making at the 
same time, of the hare from which the fillets were taken, 
one dessert-spoonful of red currant jelly, one tablespoonful 
of spiced vinegar, a few cloves, and one small onion. Stir 
and let it boil slowly for five minutes, then pass through 
a fine gravy strainer into a clean saucepan, put in the 
scollops, add a glass of port wine, and a few chopped 
mushrooms, and let them simmer slowly till tender. Dish 
the scollops piled up in the centre, pour the sauce over 
them, and for a border put x5roquettes of potatoes, with 
small sprigs of parsley between each croquette. 



ENTRIES AND MADE DISHES. 15 

Croquettes of Veal. 

Take the remains of cold dressed veal, remove the skin 
and gristle, and mince it finely with cold ham or tongue, 
a little grated bread, and a few mushrooms, season with 
grated nutmeg, pepper, salt, and a few grains of cayenne. 
Put it on in a saucepan with a little strong stock made 
from the veal bones and trimmings, and let it simmer 
for ten minutes, then put it out on a flat dish to cool. 
When quite cold form into balls or corks of an equal size, 
roll them in beaten egg, then in fine bread-crumbs, and 
fry in boiling fat. Put them in the oven a minute to 
drain, serve on a napkin, and garnish with parsley. 

Braised Sabs of Beef 

Take two or three ribs of beef according to the quantity 
required, and saw off a piece of the chine-bone, so as to 
flatten it for dishing. Mix two ounces of salt with one 
and a half of brown sugar, rub it well into the beef, and 
let it stand for two days. Brown three or four ounces of 
butter in an oval stewpan, put in the beef and brown it 
nicely all over, being careful not to let it burn. When it 
is well browned add about a pint of stock, or more if 
necessary, one tablespoonful of vinegar, the same of 
ketchup, and a little pepper. Cover closely, and simmer 
slowly for an hour and a half, then take out the beef, 
skim off the fat, and thicken with corn flour. Eetum the 
beef to the pan along with half a pound of sultana raisins, 
and balls of carrots and turnip previously scooped out, 
and cooked separately in water with a pinch of brown 
sugar. Let it simmer slowly for nearly an hour. Have 
a dozen small onions peeled, and add them half an hour 
before dishing, or long enough to cook them thoroughly 



16 entMes and made dishes. 

withoiit breaking. Serve with the sauce poured over the 
meat, and the vegetables neatly arranged around it. 

To Dress Gold Eoast Beei^ 

Cut and trim into neat slices, about a quarter of an inch 
thick, one pound of cold roast beef, and make a sauce as 
follows :— Put on in a stewpan one ounce of butter with 
four tablespoonfuls of vinegar and a very small onion 
finely minced, stir with a wooden spoon tiU the vinegar 
is absorbed, then mix in one ounce of flour, go on stirring 
till it browns a little, then add one pint of stock, and 
black pepper to taste. Let it boil slowly for fifteen 
minutes, then add three chopped pickled gherkins and 
one tablespoonful of finely minced parsley, let it again 
come to the boil and skim. Put in the slices of beef and 
heat thoroughly, but do not allow it to boil. 

Croquettes of Sweetbreads. 

Cut equal quantities of parboiled sweetbreads and 
cooked mushrooms into quarter inch dice. Mix together 
in stiff white sauce, make it quite hot, but do not let it boil, 
then put it out on a dish till cold. Prepare some fine bread- 
crumbs, divide the mixture into balls of an equal size, and 
dip them in beaten egg seasoned with white pepper and 
salt, then roll them in the bread-crumbs and fry in boil- 
ing fat. Serve on a napkin, and garnish with parsley. 
This is a good way to use up the trimmings of sweetbreads 
from the shaping of Cutlets of Sweetbreads as well as the 
mushroom stalks left from Mushroom Toast. 

Cucumber F^lt^s. 

Peel and cut a fresh cucumber into slices about an 
inch and a half in thickness, making them all an equal 



ENTRIES AND MADE DISHES. 17 

size. Scoop out a little from the centre of each, leaving 
a sole at the bottom to hold the meat. Put them on in 
white stock with one teaspoonful of vinegar, and the 
same of sugar in it, and let them simmer slowly till 
tender, but not broken. Fill them with hot mince, such 
as chicken or veal, . and serve with white sauce made of 
the stock in which they were boiled. 

Lobster Quenelles. 

Eemove the meat from a freshly boiled hen lobster, 
pound it well in a mortar, then add to it an equal pro- 
portion of butter, one teacupful of grated bread soaked in 
a little white stock, the yolks of three eggs, and the whites 
of two. Season with white pepper, salt, grated nutmeg, 
and a small pinch of cayenne. Mix all well together, 
and pass through a fine wire sieve with a wooden spoon. 
Before filling the moulds, it is better to ascertain whether 
it is firm enough, by trying a dessert-spoonful in boiling 
water ; and if too soft, the addition of another egg will be 
necessary. Fill the quenelle moulds nearly to the top, 
cover with white paper, and steam slowly for twenty 
minutes. Dish neatly with prepared prawns or shrimps, 
heated in a little stock, in the centre, and white fish 
sauce slightly flavoured with essence of anchovies poured 
round them; garnish the top of each quenelle with a 
pinch of finely chopped green parsley. 

Plain Pish Sauce (WMte). 

Work one ounce of butter into one ounce of flour, put 
it on to melt in a saucepan, add half a pint of good sweet 
milk ; let it come to the boil, stirring it very carefully, 
then add gradually half a pint of fish stock, and let it 



18 ENTRIES AND MADE DISHES. 

boil from ten to fifteen minutes, stirring occasionally. 
Season with white pepper, and salt if necessary. 

Blanquette of Lamb's Sweetbreads. 

Make a casserole or border of mashed potatoes about 
three inches deep, brush it with beaten egg, and brown 
in the oven. Soak and scald ten sweetbreads in the 
usual way, and cook them in a little white stock about 
fifteen minutes, put them out on a dish to cool, then cut 
them into scollops a quarter of an inch thick. Make a 
nicely-seasoned white sauce, put the scollops into it along 
with a few cooked mushrooms cut in small pieces. Toss 
them a little till quite hot, but do not let them boil; 
dish in the casserole with the sauce poured over them. 

Croquettes of Potatoes. 

Boil and peel six large potatoes, pass through a wire 
sieve into a basin, add one egg or the yolks of two, and 
season with black pepper and salt. Mix well, and let it 
stand till nearly cold, then form into twelve or fourteen 
balls, roll them in fresh bread crumbs, then in beaten 
egg, and again in bread crumbs. Fry them in boiling 
felt to a nice golden brown, then put them in the oven 
for a minute to drain, and serve neatly dished on a 
napkin. 

Dutch Sauce. 

Put on in a saucepan four tablespoonfuls of vinegar, and 
reduce it by boiling to about half the quantity, then take 
it off and add two tablespoonfuls of white stock along 
with the yolks of two eggs ; put it on again and stir till 
thick like custard, but do not let it boil. Divide three 
ounces of butter into four pieces, add one to the sauce. 



ENTRIES AND MADE DISHES. 19 

put it on the fire and stir till melted, then take it o£f, add 
another, and repeat till all the butter has been put in. 
While adding the butter, the addition of a tablespoonful 
of white stock occasionally serves to keep the proper 
consistency or thickness, which should be somewhat like 
melted butter. Season with pepper and salt, and, if liked, 
a few grains of cayenne. Great care must be taken not 
to let this sauce boil, as if allowed to do so it will be 
sure to curdle. 

Dressed Ox Cheek. 

steep an ox cheek two hours in cold water, put it in 
boiling water for fifteen minutes, then take it out and 
bone it. Break the bones^ put them on in cold water, 
with some slices of carrot and onion, a bunch of parsley, 
a few peppercorns, and a little salt ; let them boil down 
to a strong stock, and strain. Put a few bones in the 
bottom of a stewpan, lay the ox cheek on them, cover 
with the stock, cover the pan closely, and let it simmer 
gently till tender, then take it out and press between two 
flat dishes, with a weight on the top, all night. If for a 
single entree, cut ten slices from the cheek two inches 
long, one and a-half broad, and three-eighths in thick- 
ness. Coat them with same sauce as for cutlets of sweet- 
breads (p. 1 1), lay them on bread-crumbs till cold and firm, 
brush with the whites of eggs left from making the sauce, 
beaten slightly, cover with bread-crumbs mixed with a 
little grated cheese, and fry in boiling fat. Have cawot 
and turnip cut in small dice, and boiled with a pinch of 
brown sugar in the water. For the sauce, brown one ounce 
of butter with a little flour, add a little stock, pepper, salt, 
and ketchup ; boil for ten minutes, then add one table- 
spoonful of spiced vinegar and a little finely minced 



20 SAVOURIES, 

parsley. Dish the cutlets in a circle, put the vegetables 
in the centre, and pour the sauce round them. One ox 
cheek is sufficient to make two double entries. 

Ox Cheek Another Way. 

Prepare the slices of cheek as above, only making them 
a little thicker, say half-an-inch instead of three-eighths. 
Put them on in a small stewpan with stock enough to 
cover them ; let them get thoroughly heated without boil- 
ing. Take three fresh tomatoes, cut each in two, and 
take out the seeds without breaking them; stuff them 
with a little minced ham mixed with a few chopped 
mushrooms, some bread-crumbs, an egg, and a little pepper 
and salt. Place them on a dish, strew bread-crumbs over 
them, and on each put a very small piece of butter ; put 
them in the oven for fifteen minutes, then take them out 
and cut each half in two. Dish the cutlets in a circle, 
fill the centre with the tomatoes, and pour the same 
brown sauce, as in the foregoing recipe, round them. 



SAYOUEIES. 

Cheese Eamakins. 



For eighteen cases, separate the yolks from the whites of 
five eggs. Beat two ounces of butter to a cream, then 
add by degrees, while beating, three of the yolks. Make 
a batter of one good tablespoonful of flour and a little milk, 
mix with the butter and yolks, then add about three 
ounces of grated Parmesan or Gruyfere cheese, pepper, salt, 
and a very little cayenne. Switch up to a stiff froth the 



SAVOURIES. 21 

five whites of eggs, and mix all together very gently and 
lightly. Have the ramakin cases oiled with a little salad 
oU, fill them a little more than half, sprinkle on each a 
little grated cheese, and bake in a quick oven for about 
seven minutes. Arrange them neatly on a folded napkin, 
and serve immediately. 

Scotcli Woodcock. 

Mix in a pan on the stove two ounces of grated 
Parmesan cheese, one teaspoonful and a half of anchovy 
paste, half a teacupful of cream, and a small pinch of 
cayenne. Let it melt and just come to the boiL Have 
three slices of bread fried in butter to a nice light brown. 
Cover each with the mixture, and serve as hot as possible. 

Ham Toast. 

Cut thin slices of bread from a stale loaf, take off the 
crust, divide into pieces from two to three inches long, 
and fully an inch wide, and fry in boiling fat Cover half 
the number of the pieces of toast with lean ham, sliced as 
thin as possible, sprinkle over them some grated Parmesan 
cheese, and lay on that the remaining slices of toast. Put 
them in the oven till thoroughly heated, and serve very 
hot on a folded napkin. 

Anchovy Eggs. 

For a party of twelve have six large eggs, boil them ten 
minutes, let them cool, and take the shells ftom them care- 
fully. Divide them in two crosswise, scoop out the yolks, 
and cut off the points from the white, in order to flatten them 
for dishing. Wa,sh, scale, and bone twelve anchovies, cut 
a long fillet from the back of each, which divide in two, 
and lay aside for garnishing. Pound the anchovies in a 



22 SAVOURIES. 

mortar, then add the yolks, and pound them together, 
adding a few drops of salad oil, a little finely chopped 
parsley and shalot, a few grains of cayenne, a Uttle grated 
nutmeg, and white pepper and salt to taste. With this 
mixture fill up the cups made from the white of the eggs, 
raising them a little towards the centre, and making them 
smooth with a knife dipped in cold water. Ornament 
with two stripes of anchovy and one of boiled white of 
egg, placing the stripe of egg in the middle, and one stripe 
of anchovy on each side of it. Chop some lettuce or 
endive, put it on a dish, arrange the eggs neatly on it, 
and serve cold. 

Cheese Custards in Shells. 

Boil a red herring for five minutes, cut off the head and 
tail, skin it, remove the bones, and pound it in a mortar 
with a few drops of cochineal sufficient to colour it. Pass 
it through a wire sieve with a wooden spoon, then dry on 
the stove, and put aside for use. Make a custard with 
three eggs and six tablespoonfuls of milk, add to it two 
ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, a little white pepper 
and grated nutmeg. Fill the shells with the custard, 
strew some of the red herring crumbs on the tops, warm 
in the oven, and serve. The above is sufficient to fill a 
dozen of shells. 

Finnan Haddock Canapes. 

Cook a little on the gridiron, or in the oven, a good 
sized finnan haddock, remove from it the bones, skin, and 
trimmings, pound it well in a mortar, with three ounces 
of butter, and pass through a wire sieve with a wooden 
spoon. Cut out eighteen or twenty rounds of stale bread, 
three-eighths of an inch thick, with a two-inch cutter, and 



SAVOURIES. 23 

fry them in butter to a nice golden brown. Cover them 
with the mixture, raising it towards the centres, put in 
the oven long enough to get thoroughly heated, but not to 
brown, and serve hot. 

Mushroom Toast. 

Take as many mushrooms just opened as will be wanted, 
remove the stalks, wash and drain them, and place them 
on a flat dish with the hollow part upwards. Put a small 
piece of butter into each mushroom, sprinkle a little 
pepper and salt on them, and put them in the oven for 
about fifteen minutes, or till they are tender. With a 
cutter two inches in diameter cut out as many rounds of 
bread, half an inch thick, as there are mushrooms, scoop 
a little hoUow in the centre of each, and fry them in 
boiling fat Place a mushroom on each round of toast, 
with a little of the gravy, and serve hot. 

Graigie Toast. 

Beat three eggs, add one green chili and the inside of 
two tomatoes, both finely minced, a little milk, one ounce 
of butter, and a little salt. Mix all together, and put on in 
a pan to get thoroughly heated. Have small pieces of 
stale bread cut out half an inch thick, with a cutter 
either round or square, and fried in boiling fat. Cover 
the toast with the mixture and serve hot. 

Souffle Potatoes. 

Wash and brush eight potatoes of an ordinary size, 
flatten them at one end by cutting a slice from each, and 
roast them in the oven. When quite ready take them 
out, cut a slice from the other end of each, scoop out the 
potatoes, taking care to keep the skins whole, and put 



24 SAVOURIES. 

them through a colander into a basin. Switch them till 
very light, with an ounce of butter, half a gill of cream, 
and one egg; add ketchup, pepper, and salt to taste. With 
this mixture refill the skins, sprinkle a little grated cheese 
on the top, and put them in the oven till they rise and 
get brown. Serve hot on a table-napkin, and garnish 
with parsley. 

Iced Cheese. 

Melt in a saucepan three ounces of grated Parmesan 
cheese, with half a pint of milk, then let it get cold, and 
mix it with a small teacupful of cream, one teaspoonful 
of dry mustard, and a little pepper and salt. Pour into a 
square mould, and freeze in the usual way. When wanted, 
turn out and cut into small cakes about two inches long 
by an inch and a quarter broad, and dish in a circle, the 
one overlapping the other. 

Dressed Crab. 

Take a large freshly-boiled crab, break it up, take out 
all the meat from the body, then rub it through a sieve, 
add one teaspoonful of salad oil, a little dry mustard, a 
few grains of cayenne, and pepper and salt to taste. 
Break the thick ends of the small claws, and the whole of 
the large ones, take out the white meat, break it very 
small, being careful that no small bits of shell are left in 
it, add one teaspoonful of salad oil, the same of vinegar, 
and season with pepper, salt, and a few grains of cayenne. 
Cleanse and brush the large round shell, break away the 
inside white part till within about an inch of the edge, 
fill the two ends with the prepared white meat, and the 
middle with the yellow. Ornament with finely minced 
parsley and pounded lobster roe, and serve on a napkin 
with the small claws placed neatly round it 



PUDDINGS, JELLIES, ETC. 25 

Cauliflowers au &ratiii. 

Take away the green stalks from the cauliflowers, 
divide them into quarters, throw them in cold water with 
a little vinegar in it to draw away the insects, then put 
them on in boiling water with a little salt in it, and let 
them boil about fifteen minutes. Drain on a sieve, and 
place them neatly on a vegetable dish, flowerets up. Mix 
one ounce of butter with one ounce of flour, put it on in 
a saucepan to melt, then add half a pint of milk, season 
with pepper and salt, and let it boil five minutes, stirring 
constantly. Have about two ounces of cheese grated, mix 
an ounce and a half with the sauce, pour it over the cauli- 
flowers, then sprinkle the remainder of the cheese on the 
coating of sauce, then breadcrumbs, with here and there a 
morsel of butter. Put the dish in a quick oven till 
nicely browned, and serve hot. 



PUDDINGS, JELLIES, ETC. 

Apples with Sice. 

Boil two ounces of the best whole rice with one pint 
of milk, one ounce of butter, a little sugar, and the rind 
of a lemon. When sufficiently boiled take it off the fil'e, 
take out the lemon rind, and add the yolk of an egg ; stir 
for a minute or two, but do not let it boil, then pour it 
out and set aside to cool a little. Have four apples of 
an equal size peeled and cored, cut three of them into 
quarters, keeping the fourth whole, put them on in a 
syrup made of one pint of water and four ounces of 
sugar, with a few smaU pieces of dried ginger in it for 
fldivouring ; let them boil gently till soft, but not broken. 



26 PUDDINGS, JELLIES, ETC. 

Dish the prepared rice neatly in the centre of a glass 
dish, arrange the quarters of apples round it, placing the 
whole apple on the top ; reduce ,the syrup a little by 
boiling, then pour it through a gravy strainer over the 
apples, and ornament with dried cherries or ginger 
and angelica. 

Croquettes of Bice. 

Wash six ounces of whole rice, put it on in a saucepan 
with one pint of milk, two ounces of ground sugar, half 
an ounce of butter, and the thin nnd of a lemon. Any 
other flavouring may be used if preferred. Simmer gently 
until the rice is soft and the milk absorbed, which will 
take from twenty to twenty-five minutes, then take it off, 
add the beaten yolks of two eggs, mix well, and allow it 
to stand till cold and stiff. Make it into a dozen balls, 
roll in bread crumbs, then in egg, and again in bread 
crumbs, and fry in boiling lard till equally browned. 
Serve them piled high on a dish. 

Lemon Mtters. 

Put on in a saucepan one ounce and a-half of butter 
with a third of a pint of water, let it come to the boil, 
add two ounces of sifted flour, stir it up for half a minute, 
then take it off and beat it up with two eggs, adding one 
at a time, along with half an ounce of sugar, and flavour- 
ing to taste. Drop with a teaspoon into boiHng fat, and 
boil about four minutes. Serve on a napkin piled up 
high, with ground sugar sprinkled on them. 

Apple Fritters. 

Peel five or six apples, remove the core with an apple- 
corer, and cut the apples across into slices of about half 



PUDDINGS, JELLIES, ETC. 27 

an inch thick. Put them on a flat dish, dust ground 
sugar over them, pour a little white wine, with the juice 
of two lemons, all over them, and let them stand a short 
time. For the batter take half a pound of flour, put it 
into a basin with two tablespoonfuls of salad oil and a 
little salt, work it into a paste rather thicker than cream, 
with tepid water, switch up to a stiff froth the whites of 
three eggs, and add to the batter a short time before it 
is wanted. Dip the slices of apple in the batter and fry 
them in boiling fat to a nice light brown, drain them on 
blotting-paper or in the oven, and serve on a napkin with 
sugar sifted over them. 

Omelette SouMd. 

Beat the yolk of one egg with as much ground sugar 
as it will take in, add one teaspoonful of com flour and a 
little vanilla sugar, switch the whites of four eggs till 
very stiff and light, and mix together very gently and 
lightly. Butter a souffle dish slightly, pour in the souflS^, 
and bake about ten minutes in a slow oven. Serve 
immediately. 

Albany Pudding. 

Soak two ounces of tapioca for an hour in one pint of 
milk, then put it on in a pan and let it simmer slowly till 
soft. PQund two stale penny sponge-cakes in a mortar, 
add to them one ounce of ground sweet almonds, mix with 
the tapioca and milk, and set aside to cool. Beat up 
three eggs with two ounces of ground white sugar, adding 
one egg at a time. Mix all together, flavour with a few 
drops of ratafia, pour into a buttered mould, and steam for 
one hour and a quarter. Turn out, and serve with wine 
sauce. 



28 PUDDINGS, JELLIES, ETC. 

Yegetable Mairow Pudding. 

Peel an ordinary-sized vegetable marrow, cut it into 
pieces, taking out the seeds, and put it on in boiling water 
with a little salt, boil till tender, and press through a wire 
sieve. Mix with this puree two tablespoonfuls of flour 
and a teacupful of grated bread, beat two ounces of butter 
to a cream, add three ounces of ground white sugar, beat 
a little longer, then add three eggs, beating five minutes 
between each. Mix all together, flavour with the juice 
and grated rind of half a lemon, pour into a well-buttered 
pudding mould, cover closely, and steam for one hour and 
a half. When ready, turn out and serve with the follow- 
ing sauce : — switch up together in a saucepan till very 
light the yolks of two eggs, two teaspoonf uls of sugar, and 
one glass of sherry, then put it near the fire and heat 
gradually, but do not allow it to boil. 

Souffle Pudding. 

Mix in a pan on the stove four ounces of flour with two 
ounces of sugar, one ounce of butter, and one pint of milk ; 
stir till it just boils, then take it off, and go on stirring 
till it cool a little. Separate the yolks from the whites of 
four eggs, beat the yolks a little, and add to the pudding 
by degrees. Switch the whites to a stiff froth, and mix 
very gently and lightly, flavour with the juice of a lemon, 
pour into a well-buttered pudding mould, and steam 
slowly for one hour and a quarter. Turn out and serve 
with German sauce. 

Muffin Pudding. 

Oat into slices about one pound of stale bread and soak 
them in one pint of cold milk for an hour, clean half a 
pound of currants, butter a melon mould, line it neatly 



PUDDINGS, JELLIES, ETC, 29 

with the slices of bread, then put in a layer of currants, 
again slices of bread, and so on till the mould is nearly 
full. Beat up two eggs with two tablespoonfuls of sugar, 
add one glass of sherry, and pour over the pudding. Let 
it stand a short time, then put it on and let it steam for 
an hour and a quarter. 

■ 

Custard Pudding. 

Put on in a pan one pint of milk, three ounces of sugar, 
half an ounce of cinnamon, and the rind of one lemon. 
Let it come to the boil, then take it off, let it stand about 
two minutes, and strain through a piece of muslin. Switch 
up in a basin for a little eight eggs, leaving out three 
whites. When the milk is cold mix all together, and 
pour into a weU-buttered custard pudding mould, let it 
steam slowly from twenty to twenty-five minutes, then 
turn out and serve with custard sauce. 

Swiss Pudding. 

Slice a small sponge-cake, cover each slice with straw- 
berry jam, or any other preserve that may be preferred, 
lay the slices in a glass dish one on the top of the other, 
then pour over it about two glasses of sherry. As the 
sherry soaks through the cake to the bottom of the dish, 
take it up with a spoon again and pour it over the cake 
until it is all absorbed. Switch up, till very thick and 
light, about half a pint of good cream, and pour over it, 
and ornament with pink sugar. The cream should set 
on the top and sides of the cake as it is poured over it. 

Yenus Pudding. 

Butter a quart melon mould, and ornament it with 
candied ginger and angelica. Make a custard of the yolks 



30 PUDDINGS, JELLIES, ETC, 

of twelve eggs, the whites of six, and one pint of cream. 
Put aside a little of this for sauce. Dissolve one ounce 
of gelatine in half a gill of cold water, then pour over it 
the same quantity of boiling water, and stir till cold; 
add one glass of sherry, the same of rum, and sugar to 
taste ; mix with the custard, and pour into the mould. 
When set, turn out as a jelly, flavour the sauce with 
syrup of ginger, and pour round it 

Almond Custard Fritters. 

Cut a cold custard pudding into slices about two inches 
long, one inch and a half broad, and half an inch thick. 
Blanch and chop some sweet almonds, dry them a little 
in the oven, or on the stove, and strew them thickly on 
both sides of the slices of custard. Fry in boiling fat to 
a nice light brown, and serve hot. 

Stewed Ehubail). 

To four pounds of rhubarb allow one pint and a half of 
water, and one pound and a half of sugar. Wipe the 
rhubarb with a clean towel, but do not peel it, and cut 
it into pieces an inch and a half long. Put on the sugar 
and water in a brass pan, let it boil, then put in the 
rhubarb and let it simmer till tender, taking care it does 
not break. It is better to watch it while cooking, and 
lift out the pieces with a spoon, as they become tender 
before breaking down. When it is all dished, reduce the 
syrup by boiling a little longer, and pour over it. 

Sauce Royale for Plum Pudding. 

Beat four ounces of fresh butter to a cream, add four 
ounces of fine ground sugar, and beat a little longer, then 



PUDDINGS, JELLIES, ETC. 31 

stir in gradually one glass of brandy and the same of 
sherry. The mixing must be done very carefully, adding 
the brandy and sherry at first by drops at short intervals, 
so as to make it blend with the butter. This sauce should 
be made shortly before it is wanted, and served cold in a 
sauce tureen. 

Grermaji Sauce for Puddings. 

Switch up in a basin inside a pan with boiling water in 
the bottom, on the stove, one egg, half a glass of sherry, 
the same of water, and one tablespoonful of sugar, till it 
gets quite light and spongy, and pour over the pudding. 

Sauce for Puddings. 

Beat one egg with one dessert-spoonful of white sugar, 
and half a teaspoonful of com flour in a small saucepan, 
put it near the fire, add a teacupful of good sweet milk, 
stir till it becomes thick, but do not allow it to boil, then 
add one glass of sherry. 

Orange Jelly with Oranges. 

Soak two ounces of gelatine m one pint of cold water 
for two hours, then pour pver it one pint of boiling water, 
stirring all the time. Put it on in a clean brass pan with 
eight ounces of the finest loaf-sugar, the thin rind of six 
oranges and the juice of five, two eggs, yolks, whites, 
and shells, slightly beaten together; stir till it boils, let it 
boil five minutes, then take it oiBf and add one glass of 
curaqoa. Let it stand by the fire a minute, then pour 
through a heated jelly-bag, returning it a second time if 
not sufficiently transparent at first. Carefully peel the 
white skin off* the orange from which the juice was not 
squeezed, divide it into quarters, take out the pips, taking 



32 PUDDTNOa, JELLIES, ETC. 

care not to break the thin skin between the sections. 
Pour a little jelly into a mould, allow it to set, then a 
layer of the orange sections, with a little more jelly; let it 
again set, pour in more jelly, let it set, then a layer of 
oranges with a little jeUy, let it set, and fill up the 
mould. 

Claret Jelly. 

To make a quart shape, soak two ounces of gelatine in 
half a pint of cold water, then pour over it the same of boil- 
ing, stirring all the time. Put it on in a clean brass or 
enamelled pan, with half a pound of finest loaf sugar, the 
rind and juice of one large lemon, a sixpenny pot of red- 
currant jelly, and two eggs, yolks, whites, and shells 
beaten up together. Stir carefully till it boils, let it boil 
five minutes, then take it off the fire, add one glass of 
brandy, let it again come to the boil, and pour through 
the jelly-bag, which ought to be previously soaked in 
and well wrung out of boHing water. If not clear enough 
at the first running. through, return it to the jelly-bag. 
When it has all run through and nearly cold, add one pint 
of good claret, and pour into a mould. 

Biinit Almond Charlotte Busse. 

Blanch and chop four ounces of good sweet almonds. 
Melt in a brass or copper pan two ounces of sugar, let it 
boil till quite brown, then add the almonds, and stir care- 
fully for a few minutes. Pour it out in a flat dish, let it 
get quite cold, then pound in a mortar, and set aside for 
use. Line a plain mould with finger biscuits. Soak three 
quarters of an ounce of gelatine in half a gill of cold water, 
then pour over it the same of boiling water, and stir 



PUDDINGS, JELLIES, ETC. 33 

occasionally till almost cold/ not allowing it to set. 
Switch up in a basin half a pint of good cream tiU quite 
light and stiff, adding at the same time four ounces of 
the finest ground sugar and two tablespoonfuls of lemon 
syrup. When switched enough, add the gelatine, mixing 
it very carefully with the cream, then the burnt almonds, 
pour into the mould, and when jellied, turn out and serve. 

Coffee Charlotte Eusse. 

Proceed exactly as in the foregoing recipe, substituting 
the following preparation of coffee for the almond and 
sugar mixture. Heat in the oven, or in a pan over the 
fire, two ounces of roasted coffee beans, then put them 
into quarter of a pint of boiling milk, cover closely, let them 
stand for an hour in a warm place, and strain through a 
piece of muslin. Let it stand till cold before mixing with 
the cream. 

Plain Shape of Cream. 

Soak three quarters of an ounce of gelatine in half a 
gill of cold water for an hour, then pour over it the same 
of boiling water, and stir occasionally till nearly cold, 
taking care that it does not set or get luinpy. Switch up 
in a basin one gill of good thick cream till very light and 
spongy, adding while doing so about two tablespoonfuls of 
lemon syrup (see Lemon Syrup), and four ounces of icing 
sugar. When light enough, add the prepared gelatine by 
degrees, mixing it with the cream very carefully and 
thoroughly, and pour into a mould previously dipped in 
cold water. 

Apple Cheese. 

Soak three quarters of an ounce of gelatine in half a 
pint of cold water for an hour. Peel, core, and slice one 



34 PUDDINGS, JELLIES, ETC. 

pound and a half of baking apples, put them on in a 
brass pan with the gelatine, half a pound of ground white 
sugar, and a few pieces of rough ginger. Stir and let it 
boil till the apples are quite soft, then pass through a 
hair sieve, stir occasionally till nearly cold, and pour into 
a round casserole mould. When quite set, turn it out on 
a glass dish, and fill the centre with switched cream, on 
which sprinkle a little pink sugar. 

Pine-Apple Cheese. 

Put on a pound of tinned pine-apple in its own juice, 
and simmer slowly till tender, adding a little water should 
it reduce too much, then pound it in a mortar, after which 
force through a hair sieve, and sweeten with three ounces 
of sugar. Soak one ounce of gelatine in three-quarters of 
a gill of cold water for an hour, then pour over it the 
same quantity of boiling water, stirring till nearly cold. 
Mix the prepared pine-apple and gelatine together, both 
being cold; this must be carefully done lest the gelatine 
should separate from the fruit and get into a lump. Pour 
it into a plain round casserole mould; when quite firm, 
turn out and serve with switched cream in 'the centre. 
Apricot Cheese is made in the same way, substituting 
the tinned apricots for the pine-apple. 

Fine-Apple Charlotte Eusse. 

Put on in a brass pan about eight or ten ounces of 
tinned pine-apple along with the juice and one ounce of 
loaf-sugar. Let it simmer slowly till tender, adding a 
little water should it reduce too much, then pass through 
a wire sieve, and put aside for use. When wanted, 
proceed as in the recipe for Burnt Almond Charlotte 



PUDDINGS, JELLIES, ETC. 35 

Busse, using the purfe of pine-apple instead of the burnt 

almonds. 

A pur^e of apricots may be made as above for Apricot 
Charlotte Eusse. 

To Prepare Chocolate for Creams. 

Dissolve two ounces of chocolate in half a pint of boil- 
ing milk. When cold, add the yolks of two eggs and a 
little sugar. 

Iced Souffle (Superior). 

Beat up the yolks of eight eggs with six ounces of 
ground white sugar in a copper or brass pan, over the 
stove, till very light, then draw it aside and allow it to 
cool. Switch up one pint of good cream with two ounces 
of ground sugar and three tablespoonfuls of lemon syrup 
till quite thick and spongy, switch up four of the whites 
of the eggs to a stifif froth ; have half a pound of any dried 
preserved fruit, such as ginger, pine- apple, or apricots 
chopped up into small pieces. The mixing must now be 
very carefully and lightly done, adding a spoonful of the 
yolks and sugar mixture to the cream alternately with so 
much of the frothed whites and half the fruit at a time. 
When thoroughly mixed pour it into the souffle dish 
with a paper band round it, place it among the ice and 
salt for a few hours, or tiU quite frozen to the centre, 
then take ofif the band of paper and serve on a silver dish 
with vanilla and pink sugar sprinkled on the top. 

Pine-Apple Iced SouflBid. 

Switch up till very stiff the whites of six eggs, adding 
the juice of half a lemon, then switch up one pint of good 
cream with six ounces of icing sugar and two tablespoon- 



36 PUDDINGS, JELLIES, ETC. 

m 

fuls of lemon syrup till very spongy and light, mix the 
cream and eggs together with half a pound of preserved 
pine-apple cut into small square pieces. The mixing 
must be done carefully, as it is apt to lose its spongy 
consistency. Have a band of white paper tied round the 
souffle dish, pour in the mixture, and place the dish 
amongst the ice and salt till quite frozen, then take off 
the paper, and serve on a silver souffle dish. 

Lemon Marmalade. 

Take twelve lemons and rub them with a rough towel. 
Divide them longwise into quarters, remove the seeds, and 
cut them into very thin slices. Weigh the fruit and put 
it into a basin with cold water, allowing three pints to 
each pound, and let it stand twenty-four hours. Put it 
on in a clean brass pan, let it boil till tender, and let it 
stand again in a basin for twenty-four hours. Weigh it 
again, and put it on, allowing one pound and a half of loaf- 
sugar to the pound, and let it boil briskly for a few 
minutes, or till it jellies. Orange marmalade may be 
made in the same way. 

Spanish Pastry. 

Put on in a saucepan one ounce of butter with half a 
gill of water, a pinch of salt, and the same of sugar, let it 
melt, and come to the boil, then stir in three ounces of 
flour, and go on stirring till very smootL Beat it over 
the fire for a minute, then take it off, and stir in three 
eggs, one at a time. Drop into boiling fat one tablespoon- 
ful of the paste for each puff, and keep turning them to 
brown them equally. Let them remain in the boiling fat 
till very much risen and of a nice golden brown. 



