
This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 
to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 
to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 
are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other marginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 
publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we have taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 

We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain from automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attribution The Google "watermark" you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liability can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 



at |http : //books . google . com/ 



► 



Schlesinger Library 
Radcliffe College 



Culinary Collection 

From the Collection of 
Sophie Coe 




SENSE IN THE KITCHEN. 



A aUIDE TO 



Economical CooKiM; 



BY 



ABBY MERRILL ADAMS. * 



Syracuse, N. Y.: 
A, S. HUNTER, PUBLISHER 

1884. 






COPYRIGHT, 4884. 



PREFACE. 



The peculiar and distinctive features of Sense in 
THE Kitchen to which we would call special atten- 
tion, are: 

ist. It is the result of experience, every recipe 
having been tested and known to be the best * \ 

2nd. The recipes are simple and plain, the work 
being primarily designed for the home, rather than 
for the hotel and restaurant. 

3d. The full and explicit directions with each 
recipe cannot lail to please every yoiing house- 
keeper. 

4th. The chemistry of Food is fully and clearly 
treated, ^o that one learns not only haw any kind of 
food should be prepared but why it should be so pre- 
pared. 

5th, Particular attention ^s paid to the hygienic 
effect of dififerent kinds of food upon the dififerent 
systems. 

6th. In the part devoted to etiquette and ceremo- 
nious entertainments we try to meet the needs of 
those who wish such help and yet who do not wish 
to follow the extremes of social life. 



INDEX OF SUBJECTS. 



PAGB. 

Arranging the Tables ..311 

Bills of Fare 324 

Bread • . 130 

Cake •. .• .•163 

Canned Fruit 264 

Catsups 115 

Confectionery 271 

Drinks • 278 

Elements of Animal 

Food..« 9 

Elements of Vegetable 

Food S3 

Eggs 67 

Etiquette 316 

Fancy Dishes for Des- 
sert 23s 

*Fish • 21 

Fritters 155 

Flavored Vinegars 104 

Game 62 

Gravies {See Sauces for 
Meat and Fish,) 

Griddle Cakes 151 

Hygiene of Animal Food 80 
Hygiene of Vegetable 
Food... 158 



pAgx. 
Hygiene of Drinks • • • .391 

Ice Cream • • • • .346 

Introductory.. •• *.••• 7 

Meats • • 36 

Meat Maxims. .•••.••• 78 , 
MilkyButter and Cheese. 71 . 

Miscellaneous. • 300 

Pies.... ..196 

Poultry i......; 56 

Puddings.... ••.«.. ..208 
Pudding Sauces' ii.'v»^,^ 227 

Pickles ./:> 105 ' 

Salads ...i!.tii8 

Sauces for Meat and 

Fish 64 

Sugars ....160 

SauceSy Preserves and ' 

Fruit Jellies 25 1 

Soup •••• II ; 

Sick Room 291 

Sweetmeat Maxims. .. .188 

Vegetables j.. 88 

Vegetable Maxims .... 15 7*^ ^ 
Vegetable Acids .*. • . . . 102 • 

WjSfles....^ 151 . 

Yeast 125 



We may live without poetry, music or art 
We may live without conscience, and live without heart ; 
We nuy live without friends ; we may live without books i 
But civilized man cannot live without cooks. 
He may live without books, — ^what is knowledge but grieving? 
He nuy live without hope, — ^what b hope but deceiving? 
tie nuy live without love,r-what is passion but pining ? 
But where is the man that can live without dining ? / 

— OWBN MXRKDITH. 



^ 



FOOD. 



Food is required by the body for two chief pur- 
poses, viz: to generate heat and to produce and 
maintain the structure under tiie influence of life and 
exertion. The duty assigned to food. is to supply the 
materials which are lost by the waste which is con- 
tinually going on in the body; so that bone must b6 
renewed by materials which compose bone; flesh by 
flesh. 

Flesh in its fresh state contains water, fat, flbrine, 
albumen and gelatine, besides compounds of lime, 
phosphorous, soda, potash, magnesia, silica and iron, 
and certain extractives. Blood ^has a composition 
similar in elements to that ot flesh. Bone is com- 
posed of cartilage, gelatine, fat with phosphoric and 
other acids. - - 

The brain is composed of water, albumen, fat, phos- 
phoric acid, osmazone and salts. 

Hence it is required that the body should be pro- 
vided with salts of potash, soda, lime, magnesia, sul- 
phur, iron as well as sulphuric, phosphoric acids and 
water. Thus a knowledge of the composition and the 
requirements of the physical sy<:lem leads to a proper 
combination of food; and these combinations have 
been eflected by investigation and experience which 
protect even the most ignorant from evil consequen- 
ces. 

All animal food is rich in the four most 
essential elements to man, viz: carbon, oxygen, 
hydrogen and nitrogen, as well as many other 
very important elements to our well being; 
such as phosphorus, sulphur chlorine, potassium | 



8 rooD. 

» ■ ■ • 

lime, iron and water Which is a compound. Phosphorus 
is found in all ahimals in the state of phosphoric acid. 
This united with lime forms the phosphorate of lime, never 
absent from bone. 

Sulphur is found in all animal substances. 

Chlorine is one of the parts of salt. 

Potassium is formed in a very small degree in animals 
and is the base of potash. 

Iiro'nin the state of oxide is found in minute portions 
in all animals. 

' Water, composed of hydrogen and oxygen, is found 
ready formed. Blood contains 80 per cent, water, flesh 
75 per cent. 

It is" calculated that the human body makes up three- 
fpiirths of its weight in water. 

These are called the elements; the first four i^amed are 
the principal or essential elements. The proximate prin- 
ciples of animals are fibrine, gelatine, albumen, oils and 
fats, osmazome and caseine. These elements will be 
found discussed undor such heads of food as they form 
an essential part. " : * 



ELEMENTS OF ANIMAL FOOD. 



It IS well known that the flesh of nearly all grazing an- 
imals, either wild or domestic, is good for food. - It con- 
tains the proximate principles of animals, viz., albumen, 
fibrine, fat, gelatine, yirater, salts Jjind osmazome. 

Albumen is found the most pure in the egg, and will- 
there be more fully discussed. 

Fibrine is found in the animal body in two distinct . 
^jtates, viz., in a solid condition in muscular flesh, and as 
a fl.u.id in the blood. That which we will discuss is the 
solid fibrine, which is the fleshy part of meat when freed 
from fat, and forms the base of the meat; when boiled 
sufliciently long to become tender, unites with the gelatine 
and is nutritive and strengthening. 

F^lt in animal flesh is found in the form of suet, mar- 
row apd leaf, or what is known as lard when tried out. 
Fat or oily substances are furnished to the system, mingled 
by nature with nearly all the food we eat. Milk contains 
three or four per cent, of it, and ordinary meat, fourteen 
per cent; while in butter, gravies and fat we have it con- 
centrqited and almosjt pure. Fat in small quantities is 
found to be an essential agent in promoting digestion, 
yrhile an excess of it exerts an injurious effect espepially 
in persons of weak digestion. 

Cooking generally renders fatty substances less agree- 
able to the stomach especiall;^ if the organ is weak. In' 
frying, the temperature runs high, tending to decomposi-' 
tion and the production of various acrid and irritant fatty 
acids. Fatty matters thus changed are liable to become 
rancid by the fermenting action of the stomach producing 
heart-burn and nausea. 



lO - ELEMENTS OF ANIMAL FOOD. 

Gelatine. — ^Various parts of the animal body such as 
the skin, tendons, cartilage and soft portions of the bones 
dissolve completely by long boiling and form, when co\d, a 
jelly, called gelatin'e, which is exclusively an animal prod- 
uct, and is never found in plants; that which forms a jelly 
in plants is pectine. Gelatine is rich in nitrogen and also 
contains some sulphur. Common glue is dried gelatine. 

Ising-glass, which is the purest variety. of gelatine, is 
mainly procured from the air bladders of several varieties 
of fish, especially of the sturgeon. As an article of food 
^gelatine is used largely in soups, jellies, etc. Although it 
has been proved to have little nutritive value, but is re- 
garded in the sick-room, in the form of jelly, as an agree- 
able accompaniment to more nutritious food. 

Osmazome is a substance which has a reddish brown 
color and gives the smell and flavor to meats; it varies 
with various animals and increases with their age. It 
takes its name from two Greek words, meaning smell and 
soup. 

Flesh of Fish differs little in chemical composition 
from animal flesh except in phosphorus, but greatly from 
it in flavor and texture. In different varieties the propor- 
tion of fat and oil varies, being much greater in some than 
in others, it is also found in greater proportion in them, 
than in (quadrupeds. The eel contains fifty per cent, of 
fat; herrmg, thirty per cent; salmon, in good condition, 
ten to twenty per cent. Fish is rich in phosphorus; but 
it will not sustain * full health and strength like flesh, al- 
though it is very good food. In countries where fish- 
forms the main diet, leprosy is found to be a more com- 
mon disease than in countnes where a mixed diet is used. 
Oysters are delicacies rather than necessary food. 

Lobsters and other kinds of shell fish are very indigest- 
ib4e and persons of weak digestion cannot eat them with 
impunity. 



SOUP. 



The base ot soup should always be lean, uncooked 
meat; to which may be added chicken, turkey, beef or 
mutton bones well broken up. Wash the meat and put it 
in cold water without salt; soft water is best; if hard wa- 
ter is used, a little soda improves the water; let it come 
slowly to a boil. Always skim often,, do not add the salt 
and other seasoning until the scum has ceased to rise. 
Let it gently simmer for eight or ten hours until the meat 
is in rags; then strain the stock into an earthen jar; do 
not cool in metal as there may be poison in the soldering 
or other parts; let it cool and remove all the grease. ,The 
stock will keep in a cool place several days, and from it 
can be made all the various kinds of soup. Be very care- 
ful in using cold meats and bones that none are tainted, 
as the soup may be ruined by the use of a very little 
tainted bone or meat. If the meat is cut in small pieces 
and bones well broken, the jjiices can be extracted much 
quicker than if used in large pieces. The neck and 
knuckle pieces are good for soup-stock. Whatever may 
be added to this stock when used, as rice, tapioca, vegeta- 
bles, etc., must be cooked before being added, as much 
boiling injures the flavor of the soup. Thin soups must 
be strained. If it is to be made very clear, stir In one or 
two well-beaten eggs, with the shells, and let it boil half 
an hour, and then strain. 

Flavors for Soups. 

The following are most of the flavors used by the best 
French cooks, also those of Professor Blot and* Soyer. 
Combinations are recommended by those authors in the 
following proportions: 



IS SOUP. 

}£ ounce thyme. 

jl ounce bay-leaf. 

ji ounce marjoram. 

yi ounce rosemary. 

Dry the above when fresh; mix in a mortaii and keep 
them corked tight in a glass bottle. 

Also the following in these proportions: 

% ounce nutmeg. 

% ounce cloves. 

}£ ounce black pepper. 

j5 ounce cayenne pepper. 

Pound, mix and keep corked tight in glass. In using 
these with salt, put one ounce of the last recipe to four 
ounces of salt. In making dressing, or force meat, and 
hash, use at the rate of one ounce of this spiced salt to 
three pounds of meat. 

Soup Powder. 

a ounces parsley. 

2*ounces summer savory. 

2 ounces sweet marjoram. 

2 ounces thyme. 

I ounce lemon peel. 

I ounce sweet basil. 

Dry, pound, sift and keep in a tight corked bottle; Let 
the housekeeper add these flikvors so that they will not be 
.strong, but quite delicate, and then make a rule for the 
cook. The excellence of French cooking is the combina- 
tion of flavors, all so delicate in force and quality that no 
one is allowed to predominate. 



MEAT AND' VEGETABLE SOUPS. 

Veal Soup with Macaroni. 

3 pound§ of veal knuckle, with the bones broken and 
meat cut up. 

3 quarts water. 

}{ pound Italian macaroni. 

Boil the meat alone in the water for nearly three hours, 
until it is reduced to shreds; put the macaroni in enough 
water to cover it, in a vessel by itself and boil until ten- 
der. The pieces shouldbe only an inch in length. Add 
a little butter to the macaroni when nearly done. Strain 
the meat out of the soup^ season to your taste, put in the 
macaroni, and the/ water ih<which it was boiled;/ let it boil 
up, and serve. '^ 

Turkey Soup. 

Put all the turkey bones, and little bits left of' a dinner 
into about three quarts of water. If you have turkey 
gravy, or the remnants of chicken, add them also, and 
boil them two hours or more. Skim out the meat and 
bones, and set the water aside in a cool place until the 
nextxday. Then take all the fat from the top; take the 
bones and pieces of skin out from the meat and return it 
to the liquor. If some of the dressing hais been left, put 
that in also, and boil all together a few minutes. Add 
more seasoning if necessary. An onion should be boiled 
in it. 

Rich Beep Soup. 

6 pounds of beef. 
6 quarts of water, 
a turnips 



14 MEAT AND VSGETABLB SOUPS. 

a carrots. 

X head of celery. 

1 quart of tomatoes. 

}4 head small white cabbage. 
1 1 pint green com, or Shaker com, (soaked over night.) 

Simmer the beef, in the water for six hours, using the 
bones, broken in small pieces. Cool it and take off the 
fat. Next dav, an hour before dinner, take out the meat 
to use for hasn or mince-meat, heat the liquor, throw in 
some salt to raise the scum, and skim it well. Then slice 
the vegetables small, and boil in a very little water. Cook 
the cabbage in two waters, throwing awa)r the first. Boil 
the soup half an hour after these are put in. Season with 
salt, pepper, mace and wine to suit the taste. 

Mutton Soup, 

4 pounds of mutton. 
4 quarts of water. 
4 heaping teaspoonfuls of salt 
' I even teaspoonf ul of pepper. 

2 teaspoonfuls of sugar. 
X small onion. 

a carrots. . 

a turnips. 

I teacup of rice, or broken macaroni 

Boil the meat in the water two hours. Then add the 
vegetables, all cut fine, and the seasoning, and boil one 
hour and a half longer. 

French Vegetable Soup. 

I leg of lamb, of moderate size. 

4 quarts of water. 

Potatoes, carrots, cabbage, tomatoes and turnips, take 

I teacupful of each, chopped fine. 

4 teaspoonfuls of salt 

Pepper to taste. • 

Wash the lamb and put it into the four quarts of cold 
water. Skim carefully. Cook two hours, then add the 
vegetables. Carrots require the most boiling, and should 



MEAT AND VEGETABLE S0UP& 15 

be put in first. This soup requires about three hours to 
boil \ 

Plain Calf's Head Soup. 

Boil the head and feet in just water enough to cover 
them; when tender, take out the bones, cut in small pieces, ; 
and season with marjoram, thyme, cloves, salt and pepper. 
Put all into the pot, with the liquor, and four spoonfuls ol , 
butter; stew gently an hour; then, just as you take it up, 
add two or three glasses of port-wine, and the yolks of ' 
three eggs boiled hard. 

Ox-Tail Soup. 

Take two tails, divide them at the joints. Soak them 
a little while in warm water, then put them Into cold wa- 
ter in a gallon pot or stew-pan, with a little salt. Skim off 
the froth. When the meat is boiled to shreds, take out 
the bones, and add a chopped onion and carrot. Use 
spices and sweet herbs as you prefer. Sprinkle in a little 
farina before serving. The bones and meat should be 
boiled the day before being served, and the next day take 
the fat off from the top of the liquor, and then add the 
vegetables and spice, and boil an hour and a half more. 

Mock Turtle Soup. 

X soup-bone. 

I quart of turtle beans. 

X large spoonful powdered cloves. 

Salt and pepper. 

6 quarts of water. 

Soak the beans over night, put them on with the soup- 
bone in nearly six quarts of water and cook five or six 
hours. When half done add the seasoning; when done, 
strain through a colander, pressing the pulp of the beans 
through to make the soup the desired thickness. Serve 
with a few slices of hard-boiled egg and lemon sliced very 
thin. 

The turtle beans are black and can only be obtained 
from large grocers. 



, l6 MXAT XKD VEGETABtB SOUPS^ 

^V^EbEfABLE Soup. 
3 carrots. 
3 turnips. 
^ I small cabbage. 
I pint tomatoes. . 

Chop the. vegetables, except the tomatoes, verv fine; 
have ready in a porcelain kettle, three quarts of ooiling 
water,, and put in all except the cabbage and tomatoes, and 
simmer for a half hour, then the chopped cabbage and 
tomatoes, the latter having been stewed; also a bunch of 
sweet herbs. Let the soup boil for twenty minutes, then 
strain through a sieve, rubbing all the vegetable through. 
. Take two tablespoonf ills of best btittefand one of flour, 
' and beat them to a* cream; Now,' pepper and salt your 
' ^oup to taste; adda teaspoonful of whitesugar^a half cup 
of cream, lastly stir in the butter and flour. Let it boil 
up} and it is ready for the* table. Serve with fried bread 
chips.' 
" . Green- Gorn' Soup.' 

rlaVge foWi, 01^4 i^burids of veal! 

/ i' gallon of cold' water. 

Pitt the' meat in the wktcjf witliout' salt, covier" tiglitiy 
and simmer slowly till the meat slips from the bone; do 
not let it boil to rags, as it will make a nice dish for break- 
fast. Set aside with the meat a cup full of the' liquor. 

' Strain the soup to remove all bones and rags of meat, 
grate one dozen ears of green com, scrape the cob to re- 
move the heart of the kernel; add the com to the soup, 
with salt, pepper, and a little parsley; simmer slowly a 
half hour; just before serving, add a tablespoonful of floiir 
beaten, very thoroughly with a tablespoonful of butter.; 
SetVe hbt. To serve the chicken or veal, put the cup of' 
bi-oth.in a clean saucepan; beat one egg, a tablespoonful 
of butter, a tablespoonful of flour,, all together very thor-^ 
olijghly, add to the broth, with salt, pepper, and chopped' 

' parsle)r;. boil all together for a minute; arrange the meat 
oh a dish, pour over the dressing while boiling hot, and 
serve at once. 






meat and vegetable soup, x7 

Pea Soup, 

2 quarts of good stock. 

I quart of split peas, or green peas, 

I tablespoonful of white sugai. 

Soak the peas, if split, over night, and then boil 
tender in just enough water to prevent them from 
scorching; when tender, pass through a sieve, and 
add them to the stock; add pepper and salt to taste; 
let all come slowly to a boil. Let the soup simmer 
slowly for thirty minutes, and just before serving, 
stir in a teaspoonful of butter in which has been 
stirred a teaspoonful of flour. Serve hot with chips 
of fried bread. 

Dry Bean Soup. 

To I quart of stock, use 

1 pint of dry beans. 

Soak the beans over night, in the morning boil 
until soft ; pass through a coliander or sieve^ and add 
to the stock, as in pea soup. A sliced onion may be 
added if desired. Salt and pepper to taste« 
Asparagus Soup. 

3 or 4 pounds of veal cut fine. 
A little salt pork. 

2 or 3 bunches ot asparagus. , 

3 quarts of water. 
I pint of milk. 

Boil one-half of the asparagus with the meat, l*f«v- 
ing the rest in water until about twenty ni.nutes I e- 
fore serving; then add the rest of the asparagus and 
boil just before serving; add the milk; thicken with 
a little flour and season. The soup shoiild boil 
about three hours before adding the last half ot the 
asparagus. 

- Tomato Soup* ^ 

I quart of stock. 

X quart of tomatoes. 

Cook the tomato 20 or 30 minutes, or until It b2* 

3 ' ■ ■ ■ ■■;' 



18 MEAT AND VEGETABLE SOUPS. 

comes a pulp; then strain. Add the tomatoes to the 
stocky and stir in one tablespoonful of flour rubbed 
smooth in a tablespoonful of butter. Cook the 
tomatoes in the stock gently for a half hour. Flavor 
with pepper. Celery also adds to its flavor. 

Noodles for Soup. 

Rub into two eggs as much sifted flour as they will 
absorb; then roll out until thin as a wafer; dust 
over a little flour, and then roll over and over into a 
roll. Cut ofl* thin slices from the edge of the roll and 
shake out into long strips ; put them into the soup 
lightly and boil for ten minutes ; about a salt-spoon- 
ful of salt should be added while mixing with the 
flour. 

Croutons. 

Cut wheat bread in squares of one-half inch, and 
fry in butter until a golden brown. Take them up 
in a dish and drain some time before ready for table. 
Serve with soup instead of crackers* 



FISH SOUPS, 

I Oyster Soup. No, i. 

I }i quarts of milt 

I quart of oysters. 

54 cup of butter. 

A little salt. 

Have ready a bright stew-pan or kettle, into which put 
the oysters and liquor, with sufficient boiling water to 
cover the oysters. Stew gently, stirring occasionally for 
fifteen or twenty minutes. As the scum rises it must be 
taken off. When the oysters are nearly done, add the 
milk;, and lastly, the butter and salt. 

Oyster Soup. No. 2. 

I can oysters. ^ 

% cup butter. 

I tablespoonful of flour. 

A little salt. 

Drain the liquor from the oysters, and put it m a porce- 
lain kettle, to which add an equal quantity of water. Mix 
butter and flour and stir in wheti the liquor boils. Last 
of all, pour in the oysters and dish as soon as they reach 
the boiling point. Many persons prefer a cup of cream 
or milk in addition. 

Cove oysters cooked in this way are a very good substi- 
tute for fresh ones. 

' Clam Soup 
. I quart clams. 
I small piece of salt pork. ^ ^ 

I large, or two small onions. ' 

2t quarts of water. 



■O ' FISH SOUPS. 

I quart raw potatoes, sliced. 

I tablespoonful flour. 

I pint of milk. 

Butter, pepper and salt to taste. 

Cut the pork in small squares and fry a light brown. 
Add onions cut very fine, and cook about ten minutes. 
Then put in the water and potatoes and let it boil, then 
add the clams. Mix the flour with milk, pour into the 
soup, and let it boil about five minutes. 

Lobster Soup. 

. I large, or 2 small lobsters. 
I quart of milk. ^ 

1 pint of water. 

/ I pound of butter. ^ 

X tablespoonful flour. 

Pick all the meat from the shell and chop fine; scald 
the milk and water, then add the lobster, butter, and flour. 
Season with salt and red pepper. Boil ten minutes and 
. serve hot. 

Cat-Fish Soup. 

6 cat •fish, in average weight ^ pound apiece. 
}4 pound salt pork. 
X pint milk. 

2 eggs. 

I head of celery, or small bag of celery seed. 
Skin and clean the fish and cut them up. Chop the 
pork into small pieces. Put these together into the pot, 
with two quarts of water, chopped sweet herbs, and the 
celery seasoning. Boil for an hour, or until fish and pork 
are in rags, and strain, if you desire a regular soup for 
first course. Return to the saucepan and add the milk, 
which should be already hot Next the eggs, beaten to a 
, froth, and a lump of butter the size of a walnut. Boil 
ap once, and serve with croutons. 



FISH. 



Purchase fish which have just been caught; of this you 
can judge by their being hard under the pressure of the 
finger. Fish soon lose their best flavor, and a few hours 
make a wide difference in the taste of some sorts. Cod 
are best in cold weather; mackerel in August, Septembei 
and October; halibut in May and June. Oysters are 
good from September to April; but are not healthy from 
the first of May to the last of August. 'Lobsters are best 
at the season when oysters are not good. Pond fish 
should be soaked in strong salt and water to take out the 
earthy taste. Fish may be kept good several days, if 
frozen. All large fish need to be. soaked in tepid water 
before being cleaned; which should be done with great 
care, all scales and shiny substance being removed with a , 
knife. 

Boiled Codfish. {Frcs/t.) 

Lay the fish in cold water, slightly salted, for half an 
hour before it is time to cook it. Wipe it dry and put it 
into the fish-kettle with water enough to cover it, in which 
a little salt has been dissolved. Let it boil quite briskly. 
A piece of cod weighing three pounds will cook in a half 
hour from the time the water fairly boils, if put in 
without a cloth. A better plan is, after wiping the fish, to 
wrap it in a clean linen cloth, which should be dredged 
with flour to prevent sticking. Sew up the edges, so as to 
envelope the fish entirely, but have only one thickness 
over any part. Fish cooked this way^will require twice as 
long to boil as when put into the water without any cov- 
ering; but the flavor is better preserved, and when un* 



ft nsH. -^ 

wrapped, it will not present the crumbling grain, that di» 
figures most boiled fish. 

Rock-Fish. 

Rock-fish and river-bass can be nicely cooked in the 
same way as codfish. It is not necessary to boil them as 
long. 

Boiled Codfish. * (&//.) 

The fish should be put in lukewarm water and soaked 
over night. Change the water once during the evening. 
In the morning change again, and wash off all the salt. 
An hour or more before dinner time, take it out and put 
< in ice-water, which will make it firm and hard. Set it over 
the fir6 in lukewarm water, sufficient to cover, and boil 
a half hour. Drain it well, lay in a hot dish and pour 
ovet drawn butter, in which hard-boiled eggs have been 
Gilt up. 

Codfish Sounds and Tongves. 

Soak them over night, wash, scrape, and boil them gently 
\ A short time, in milk and water. To be eaten with drawn 
butter. If fresh, wash and dry them with a cloth,; dip 
. them in com meal, and fry with a little salt pork. 

Salt Codfish and Eggs. 

Prepare the fish as for balls. 

X pint rich sweet milk. 
'3 eggs, well beaten. 
. I tablespoonf ul of butter. 

A little chopped parsley. 
; Pepper. 

Heat the milk to near boiling and gradually stir into it 
the eggs, butter, pariiley and finally the fish. Boil up af* 
ter the fish has been stirred in and then pour it over but 
tered toast in a deep dish. 



FISH. 23 

Broiled Fish. {Fresh or Salt,) 

Wash and drain the fish, sprinkle with pepper, and 
lay with the inside down upon the gridiron, and 
broil over bright coals. When a light brown, turn 
for a moment on the other side, then take up and 
spread with butter. Serve at once. 

Codfish and Potato Stew. 

Soak, boil and pick the fish, if salt, as for fish-ball^ 
If fresh, boil, and pick iiito bits. Add an equal 
quantity of rnashed potatoes, a large tablespoonful of 
butter, and milk enough to make it very soft. Put 
into a skillet, and add a very little boiling water to 
keep it from burning. Turn and toss constantly 
until it is smoking hot but not dry ; add pepper and 
parsley and dish. 

Codfish Balls. 

Chop the cold boiled fish very fine. Add one- half 
as much more mashed potatQes as fish. Mi:^ the 
potatoes and fish together and work into a stiff batter, 
adding a lump of butter, and sweet milk, and if you 
want to have them very nice, a beaten egg. Flour 
your hands, and make them icto balls or cakes. Drop 
them into hot butter or lard, and fry to a light brown; 
or melt enough lard or butter in a frying pan, and 
cook them until they are well browned, taking care 
to use enous:h lard or butter, to prevent their sti'^'-' 
ing to the pan. 

Salt Mackerel, 

Put to soak over night as many as needed, In 
plenty of water; in the morning drai.. them out,. put 
into a Skillet and partly cover with hot water; let 
them stand on top of the stove, cooking slowly (much 
boiling toughens), for about five minutes. Pour off 
the water, leaving it dry; melt cream and butter 
together and pour over. If the fish is No. 1, it will 
pav for the trouble. , , \,, 



24 ''ISH. 

Broiled Fresh Mackerel. 
Open it down the back; wash, and sprinkle salt 
ove-, and let it lie for an hour. Grease the gridiron. 
Lay the skin side down first. The fire should not be 
hot enough to scorch; turn once or twice, and allow 
fifteen minutes to broil; lay on a hot dish and put 
on shavings of butter. Tlie wire gridirons are most 
convenient for broiling fish, as they are turned with- 
out using a knife and fork. 

Fish Chowder. No. x. 
Take a pound or salt pork, cut in^o strips, and soak 
In hot water five minutes. Cover the bottom of a pot 
with a layer of this. Cut four pounds of cod or sea- 
bass into pieces two inches square, and lay enough of 
these on the pork to cover it. Follow with a layer 
of chopped onions, a little parsley, summer savory 
and pepper. Then a layer of split Boston, or butter, 
or whole cream crackers, which have been soaked in 
warm water until moist through, but not ready to 
break. Above this put a layer of pork, and repeat 
the order given above, until your materials are ex- 
hausted. Let the topmost layer be buttered crackers, 
well soaked. Put in enough cold water to cover all 
barely. Cover the pot, stew gently for an hour, 
watching that the water does not sink too low. 
Should it leave the upper layer exposed, replenish 
carefully with boiling water. When the chowder is 
done thoroughly, take out with a perforated skimmer 
and put into a tureen. Thicken the gravy with a 
tablespoonful of flour and about the same quantity of 
butter. Boil up and pour over the chowder. 

Fish Chowder. No. 2. 

; Takethinslicesof salt pork and fry brown; leave the 
fat in the bottom ot the kettle. Put in a layer of fried 
pork, tnen a !ayer of potatoes, a layer of fish, layer of 
crackers; if Boston crackers split them. Season each 
round of layers with salt and pepper. Fill the kettle in 
this way; on the top place small pieces of butter, and 



nsH 25 

water sufficient to keep from burning. Cook slowly for 
one hour and a half. A saucer put in the bottom of the 
kettle will prevent it sticking to the bottom. If onions . 
are used for seasoning, two or three are sufficient, slice, ^ 
and put in with the other seasoning. 

Broiled Salmon, or Steak. 

Cut it in slices an inch and a half thick, dry it in a 
clean cloth, salt it, and lay it upon a hot gridiron, the bars « 
having been rubbed with lard or drippings. It cooks very 
well in a stove oven, laid in a dripping-pan. 

Boiled Salmon. 

Clean a salmon in salt apd water. Allow twenty min- 
utes for boiling every pound. Wrap it in a floured cloth, 
and lay it in the kettle while the water is cold. Make the 
'water very salt; skim it well; in this respect it requires 
more care than any other fish. Serve it with drawn but* 
ter and parsley. If salmon is not thoroughly cooked it is 
unhealthy. When a piece of boiled fresh fish of any kind 
is left of dinner, it is a very good way to lay it in a deep 
dish, and pour over it a little vinegar, with catsup, and 
add pepper, or any other spice which is preferred. 

^ Baked Salmon, 

Wash and wipe dry, and rub with pepper and salt. 
Lay the fish upon a grating set over your baking pan, and 
roast or bake, basting it f/eely with butter, and, toward 
the last, with its own drippings only. Should it brown 
too fast, cover the top with a sheet of white paper until 
the whole is cooked. When it is done, transfer to a hot 
dish and cover closely, and add to the gravy a little hot 
water thickened with arrow-root, rice, or wheat flour, wet 
first with cold water; a great spoonful of tomato sauce, 
.lid the juice of a lemon. 

Salmon Trout. {Baked,) 

Clean, wash and wipe the fish; lay at full length in a ^ 
baking pan, with water enough to keep from scorching, 
4 



a6 FISH. 

s 

Wdd a very little salt, if needed. If the fish is large, cut 
across the back with a sharp knife, a few times. Baste 
often with butter and water, and bake slowly. When the 
fish is done, have ready a cup of rich cream, diluted with 
a few spoonfuls of hot water, in which you have stirred 
two spoonfuls of melted butter, and a little chopped pars- 
ley. Heat this in a vessel set within another vessel of 
boiling water; add the gravy from the dripping-pan, and 
boil up to thicken. Pour the gravy over the trout when 
ready for the table. 

Boiled Salmon Trout. 

Clean, wash and dry the trout; envelope in a thin cloth 
fitted neatly to the shape of the fish, lay within a fish- 
kettle, cover with cold, salted water, and boil gently a half 
hour, or longer, according to the size. When done, 
unwrap and lay in a hot dish. Pour around it a cream 
sauce and serve. 

Brook Trout. 

Clean, wash and wipe the fish; roll in flour or com meal, 
and fry in hot butter or a mixture of lard and butler. 
Fry them quickly to a light brown. If lard is used to fry 
them in, they should be seasoned with a little salt when 
done. Perch, White Fish, Pickerel and other small ush 
are cooked as above, except that they should be salted 
when rolled in the flour or meal. 

Cat-Fish. {Fried.) 

Skin; clean and remove the heads. Sprinkle well with 
salt an hour or more before ready to cook. Have ready 
a quantity of powdered cracker, and two or three eggs 
beaten to a froth. First, dip the fish in the egg and then 
into the powdered cracker and fry in hot lard or drippings. 

Boiled Shad. {Fresh,) 

A roe-shad is best for boiling. Clean, wash and wipe 
the fish. Cleanse the roes, and season both eggs and fish 



FISH. »J 

With salt; wrap in separate cloths, and put in the kettle. 
Cover with water, salted, and boil from half to three- 
quarters of an hour, according to size. Serve with a gravy 
of drawn butter mingled with chopped egg. 

Boiled Shad. (.5a//.) 

Soak the fish several hours in warm water (seven is not 
too much), changing it several times. Wipe off all the 
salt, and put it in ice-water for an hour. Put it in the 
kettle, with fresh water enough to cover, and boil fifteen 
or twenty minutes, according to size. When done, place 
a large lump of butter on the fish, and serve in a hot dish. 

Fried Shad. 

Clean, wash and wipe the shad, remove the head, tail 
and fins; split it open, and cut each side into four pieces. 
Season with salt and pepper; dredge with flour or corn- 
meaL Have ready in the frying-pan hot lard, or drippings; 

i>ut in the fish and, fry until brown. If it is a roe shad, 
ry the roe in the same way as the fish. 

Baked Shad. ' 

Only a large shad should be baked. Clean, wash and 
wipe the fish, and make a stuffing of grated bread crumbs, 
softened in sweet milk; add a little butter, salt, pepper , 
and sweet- herbs, moistened with a beaten egg. Fill the 
shad with the stuffing and sew it up. Put a cupful of 
water in the baking-pan to prevent scorching, and bake ^ 
one hour. Baste frequently with butter and water. When . 
done, make a gravy with the drippings, adding more water; 
thicken and season to taste. Turn the gravy over the fish, 
or serve from sauce boat. Take out the thread with which 
the fish was sewed before sending to the table. 

Broiled Shad. {Fresh!) 

Wash, wipe and split the fish. Season with salt and 
pepper; lay upon a buttered gridiron inside downward./ 
Turn the fish when the lower side is brown. A medium 



l8 FISH. 

sized shad will be done in about twenty minutes. Lay in 
allot dish and spread a good piece of butter on the ^sh. 

Broiled Shad. {SaU,) 

Lay in hikewarm water and soak over night. In the 
morning lay it in ice cold water for a half hour. 
Wipe and broil in the same manner as fresh shad. 

Baked Halibut. 

A piece weighing five or six pounds is large enough for 
baking. Lay it in salt and water for two hours. Score 
the outer skin and put it in the baking-pan in quite a hot 
oven, basting it frequently with butter and water, and bake 
an hour or until a fork will penetrate it easily. Make a 
gravy from the drippings, using additional water, a little 
butter, and flour to thicken. Serve the gravy in a sauce 
boat. ' 

V Boiled Halibi/t. 

Four or five potmds of halibut is sufficient to boil for 
an ordinary family. Lay in cold salt and water for a half 
hour. Wipe dry and cut the skin in squares. Put in 
the kettle with cold water (salted) enough to cover it, and 
boil from half to three-quarters of an hour, according to 
the size of the piece. Drain and serve with egg sauce, or 
drawn butter poured on the fish, or in a sauce boat. 

The remnants of the fish left over, can with the sauce 
and mashed potato, be warmed up together for breakfast. 
Season with salt and pepper. 

Halibut Steak. 

Wash and wipe the steak dry. Dip each steak, after 
salting, into beaten egg and then in fine pounded cracker; 
then fry in hot fat or lard. Or the steak can be broiled 
upon a buttered gridiron; season first with salt and pep- 
per; when done butter well. Lay in a hot dish covered 
closely. 



FISH. 39 

Smelts. 

Soak smelts a little while in warm water; scrape them, 
and cut the heads so far that you can gently pull them oflf, 
and thus draw out the dark vein that runs through the 
body ; then rinse and lay them into a dry cloth while you 
fry two or three slices of salt pork crisp. Dip the smelts 
into a plate of fine Indian meal, and fry them brown. If 
you fry them in lard or drippings, sprinkle them with sail 
when nearly done, as they will not brown as well if the 
salt is put on at first. 

Stewed Eels. 

An eel weighing a pound is better than one that weighs 
three. Skin and clean, carefully extracting all the fat 
from the inside. Cut into lengths of an inch and a half; 
put into a sauce-pan, with enough cold water to cover 
them; throw in a little salt and chopped parsley, and stew 
slowly closely covered for at least one hour. Add, at the 
last, a great spoonful of butter, and a little flour wet with 
cold water, also pepper. Serve in a deep dish. 

Fried Eels. 

Prepare as for stewing; roll in flour and fry, in hot 
lard or drippings, to a light brown. 



SHELL-FISH. 

To Open Clams. 

Mter washing them careifully, pour boiling water over, 
and let them stand awhile. The shells will open easily. 

Boiled Clams. 

To boil clams, wash them from the loose sand, put but 
very little water in the pot; as soon as the shells open 
they are done ; take them out, wash each one carefully 
in the liquor, cut o(T the black portions, lay them in a 
sauce-pan with some of the liquor, a piece of butter rolled 
in flour, with a little pepper and vinegar; heat scalding 
hot and serve. 

Clam Chowder, {Canned C/ams.) No. i. 

Take two or three slices* of salt pork, cut into small 
pieces and fry to a crisp; slice six or eight good-sized po- 
tatoes, and as many onions; take a large iron pot and put 
into it a little of the pork and of the fat; then a layer of 
potatoes; then a layer of onions; then pepper, salt and 
flour; then a layer of pork again, and repeat layer upon 
layer until the whole is arranged, then add hot water suf- 
ficiently to cover the whole, and let it cook slowly. When 
nearly done, add a half pound of butter, one quart of 
milk, and the canned clams. Cook until done, and just 
before serving, add a few large, hard crackers. 

CIlam Chowder. No. 2. 

• Fry five or six slices of fat pork crisp, and chop to 

Cieces. Sprinkle some of these in tjie bottom of a pot; 
ly upon them a stratum of clams; sprinkle with pepper 



SHELL FISH. 31 

and salt, ahd scatter bits of butter profusely overall; next 
have a layer of chopped onions, then one of small crack- 
ers, split and moistened with warm milk. On these pour 
a little of the fat left in the pan after the* pork is fried, 
and then comes a new round of pork, clams,' onions, etc. 
Proceed in this order until the pot is • nearly full, when 
cover with water and stew slowly, the pot closely covered, 
for three-quarters of an hour. Drain off the liquor that 
will flow freely, and when you have turned the chowder 
into the tureen, return the gravy to the pot. Thicken 
with flour, or better still, pounded crackers; ad<J a glass 
of wine, some catsup, and spiced sauce; boil up and pour 
over the contents of the tureen. 

Lobsters. {To select^ and open.) 

Buy those that have been boiled but a few hours. The 
heaviest, whether large or small, are best. Lobsters are 
sweet and tender early in the spring, and are good until 
September. In opening them, care mu^t lie . taken to re- 
move the poisonous part; this lies in the head, all of 
which niust be thrown away, as well as the vein which 
passes from it through the body; all the other parts are . 
good. Break the shells with a hammer, and cut open the 
body on the under side with a sharp knife. Carefully ex- 
amine the tomalley, or green fat, to see that there is none 
of the poison vein in it. If you are going to stew the 
•lobster or make salad, save the liquor to mix with jthe 
meat. 

Lobster. {^To Serve.) 

Prepare the lobster as above. Put it on a platter, the 
meat from the body in the center, and that of the large 
claws at each end of the dish. Arrange some of the 
small claws around the edge. Garnish with parsley and^ 
lettuce leaves, and serve with vinegar, mustard, and pepper.' 

Oyster Fritters. 

Drain the liquor from the oysters. Then take, 
I cup of the liquor. ' 

I cup of milk.^ 



39 SHELL FISIL 



3 eggs. 

A little salt. 



Flour enough for a thin batter. 

Mix all together, and stir the oysters in the batter. 
Have very hot in the frying-pan a few spoonfuls of lard, 
and drop the oyster batter in by the spoonful. When 
cooked to a light brown, they must be taken up and 
served hot. 

Oyster Patties. 

Line ^ small patty-pans with a nice crust, ^Vhen cool, 
turn them out upon a dish. Stew a pint of large oysters 
one or two minutes in their own liquor, with a heaping 
teaspoonful of butter, two blades of mace, and a little 
lemon-juice. Sprinkle in a little flour; take them up, and 
when they are cool, put two or three oysters in each puff 
and serve. If the patties are to be eaten hot, stew as 
above, and bake covers of paste on tins; put the oysters 
hot, into the puffs, and place over them the covers, fresh 
from the oven, and serve. 

Fried Oysters. 

Lay them in a cloth a few minutes to dry them; then 
dip each one in beaten egg, and then into sifted cracker 
crumbs^ and fry in just enough fat to brown them. Put 
pepper and salt on them before you turn them over. ^ 

Scalloped Oysters. 

Put a layer of crushed crackers in the bottom of a but- 
tered pudding-dish, wetting the layer with slightly warmed 
oyster-liquor and milk. Next, place a layer of oysters, 
sprinkled with pepper and salt; lay pieces of butter upon 
them, then put another layer of crumbs, and so on until 
the dish is full. Have top layer of crumbs thicker than 
rest, and beat an e^g into milk, poured over them. Stick 
pieces of butter thickly over it; cover the dish, and bake 
a half hour. 



shell fish. 33 

Oyster Pie. 

Roll out a nice puff-paste, a little thicker than for a 
fruit pie, for the top crust, and about the usual thickness 
for the lower. Line a pudding dish with the crust, and 
fill it with crackers or bread crust, to keep the upper crust 
in place. Cover the dish (having the edges well buttered) 
with the upper crust pressed down hard to prevent it 
curling up, and bake. Cook the oysters as for a stew, five 
. minutes, after which add two eggs and a spoonful of fine 
rolled cracker. Prepare the crust long enough before- 
hand that the oysters will be done when the crust is baked. 
Remove the crust, take out the bread crusts, turn in the 
hot oysters and replace the cover. Serve hot. 

Or, 

Some may prefer this method. Cover a deep plate 
with puff paste; put an extra layer round the edge of the 
plate, and bake nicely. When quite done, fill the pie with 
oysters; season with butter, salt and pepper; sprinkle a 
little flour over it, and cover with a thin crust of puff- 
paste. When the upper crust is done, the oysters should 
be. Serve immediately, as the crust soon absorbs the 
gravy. 

. Raw Oysters. 

Wash the shells very thoroughly, and wipe them dry. 
Open them, and remove the upper shell, but leave the 
under shell with the ouster in it. Place the 0)rster8 thus 
prepared on a dish, with one or two lemons cut in halves, 
and serve. HXxay should be eaten with salt, peppeii and 
lemon-juice, or vinegar. 

Pickled Oysters. 

100 large oysters. 
I pint white wine vinegar. 
I dozen blades t)f^ace. " ^ 

a dozen whole cloves, y ^ 

S 



M I 



34 SHELL FISH. 

a dozen whole black peppers. 

I large red pepper, broken in bits. 

Put oysters, liquor and all, into a porcelain kettle. Salt 
to taste. Heat slowly until the oysters are very hot, but 
not to boiling. Take them out with a perforated skim- 
mer and set aside to cool. Add the vinegar and spices 
to the liquor which remains in the kettle. ^ Boil up fairly 
and when the oysters are almost cold, pour over them 
scalding hot. Cover the jar in which they are, and put 
away in a cool place. Next day put the pickled oysters 
into glass cans with tight tops. Keep in the dark and 
where they are not liable to become heated. If you open 
a can, use as soon as practicable. 

Oyster Omelet. 

X dozen oysters, if large; 2 dozen if small 

X cup of milk. 

I % tablespoonfuls butter. 

6 eggs. 

Salt and pepper. 
^ Chop the oysters very fine. Beat the yolks and whites 
separately; the whites to a stiff froth. Melt three spoon- 
fuls of butter in the frying-pan, while mixing the omelet 
Stir the milk, yolks and seasoning well together in a dish, 
and then gradually stir the chopped oysters into the sea- 
soned milk. After they are well mixed pour in one and 
a half spoonfuls of melted butter, and lastly whip in the 
< whites with as few strokes as possible. Put the omelet in- 
to the frying-pan and as soon as it begins to stiffen, slip a 
broad-bladed knife around the edges, and lift it, that the 
butter may reach every part. The omelet should not be 
stirred. When it is stiff in the center, turn it into a hot 
dish, with the brown side uppermost 



ADDITWNAL RECIPES;. g^ 

Oyster Sausage. 

1 pint solid oysters, 
i pound veal. 

i pound suet, ^ f 

Pepper and salt. 

Cut the oysters into small pieces. Chop the^ vcsal 
and suet very fine. Mix with enough cracker to 
make into 'cakes. Dip into beaten egg, and fry in 
butter. 

Soup without Meat. 

2 tablespoonfuls of rice. 

2 large potatoes cut very fine. 

1 small onion. 

2 quarts of water. 

Boil till tender and season with a large cup of 
sweet cream, salt and pepper. Milk may be substi- 
tuted for cream by adding some butter. 



MEAT. 

Ox beef is the best; the next best is the flesh of the 
heifer; and both are in perfection during the first three 
* months of the year. The lean of good beef is red and 
of a fine grain, and the fat is white. The flesh of dis- 
eased animals is sometimes sold in city markets; therefore 
never buy beef, the fat of which is very yellow, nor mut- 
ton and lamb unless the fat is white. Yellow fat indicates 
that the meat is not healthy. The best roasting pieces of 
•beef are the sirloin; the second cut in* the fore quarter 
and the rump. If you buy a sirloin for a family of six 
or eight, get eight or ten pounds. Cut off the thin end 
in which there is no bone; it is very good corned, and not 
good roasted. The roasting-piece will still be lar^e 
enough for the family dinner, and the corned piece will 
do for another day. The back part of the rump is a con- 
venient and economical piece, especially for a small family. 
It is a long and narrow piece, weighing about ten pounds, 
and contams less bone and fat, than any other, equally 
good, in the ox. The thickest end affords nice steaks, 
■ and next to them is a good roasting piece, and the thin- 
nest end, which contains the bone, is good corned or for 
a soup. The whole piece is excellent for roasting, in case 
so large a one is needed. The spring is the best season 
for mutton. Select that which is not very large; it should 
be of a good red and white color, and fine grained. Lamb 
is best in July and August; veal is best in the spring; it 
should look white and be fat; the breast is nice stuffed; 
the loin should be roasted. The leg is an economical 
piece, as you can take off cutlets frbm the large end, stuff 
and roast the center, and make broth of the shank. 
Roasting pieces of all kinds of ribbed meat, except beef 



1IEAT& 37 

should be jointed by the butcher, else the carving will bo 
very difficult. Meat will keep in an ice-house, or a good 
refrigerator, several days in hot weather; if you have nei- 
ther, take your meat the moment it is brought in, wipe it 
dry and hang it in the cellar; sprinkling first a little pep- 
per and salt over it, especially the parts which flies arc 
most apt to visit; in mutton and lamb, these are the ten^ 
derloin, and the large end of the leg. The pepper and 
salt will also tend to preserve the meat from taint. You^ 
can keep meat longer by wrapping it in a cloth, and lay- 
ing it in a charcoal bin, with a shovel of coal thrown over 
it. A leg of mutton will keep several days wrapped in a 
cloth which has been dipped in vinegar, laid upon the 
ground of a dry cellar. Meat that is to be salted for im- 
mediate use, should, if the weather is cool, be hung up a 
. day or two first. To thaw frozen meat, bring it over night 
into a warm room; or early in the morning lay it inlo cold 
water. If meat is cooked before being entirely thawed, 
it will be tough. It is best to preserve fowls without freez- 
ing; they will keep very well packed in snow; the liver, 
etc., being taken out and laid by themselves in the snow, 
and the body filled with it. 

Directions for Boiling. 

Fresh meat should be put to cook in boiling water, and 
the water kept boiling; when done, leave the meat in the 
pot, closely covered,, until cool. Remove the scum at the 
first boil, from all meats. All salt meats should be put oa 
in cold water. Ham should be skinned as soon as it is 
done. Corned beef will be more tender if allowed to 
cool in the water in which it is boiled. Allow twenty 
minutes to a pound of fresh lueat; but a little more time 
' is required to cook a hind than a fore quarter. Salt meat 
should boil longer than fresh; allow forty minutes for ev- 
ery pound. The two things most important in boiling 
meat, are, to boil it gently, and to skim it until no more 
froth rises. Have a spoon and dish handy, and the mo-, y 
sient the froth begins to rise, skim it of]£. . If the water 



38 BIXATS. 

boils fast before you begin to take off the froth, it will re- 
turn to the water, adhere to the meat, and make it. look 
badly. Some persons throw a handful of flour into the 
kettle to prevent scum from adhering to the meat. If the 
water boils away so that the meat is not covered, add more, 
as the part which lies above the water will have a dark 
appearance. 

Directions for Roasting Meat. 

It is hot well to salt meat at first, as salt extracts the 
juices. In roasting all meats, the art depends chiefly on 
flouring thoroughly, basting frequently, and turning so 
often as not to allow any part to burn. To roast in a 
cooking-stove, it is necessary to attend carefully to the fire, 
lest the meat should burn. Lay it into the pan with three 
or four gills of water in it. Turn the pan around often, 
that all the parts may roast equally. When it is about 
half done, flour it agam, turn it over that the lower side 
may become brown. If the water in it dries away, add 
a little hot water. Allow about a quarter of an hour to a 
pound if you like the beef rare, more if you prefer it done. 
For gravy remove the beef to a dish, skim the drippings, 
add a cup of boiling water, a teaspoonful of flour stirred 
in cold water. Pepper and salt to taste. 

Beef Steak. No. i. 

' The best slices are cut from the rump, or through the 
sirloin. The round is seldom tender enough, and is very 
good cooked in other ways. Do not cut your slices very 
thick. Have ready a good bed of live coals, and a heated 
gridiron. Turn the steaks in less than a minute; and 
turn them repeatedly. If the fat makes a blaze under 
the gridiron, put it out by sprinkling fine salt on it 
^ Steaks will broil in about seven minutes. Have ready a 
hot dish, and sprinkle each piece with salt, and a little 
pepper; lay on small pieces of butter and cover close. 
This is a much better way than to melt the butter in the 
dish before taking up the meat. Some persons keep a 



MEATS. 39 

small pair of tongs on purpose to turn beef steaks, as us- 
ing a fork wastes the juice. Steaks should be served as 
hot as possible. 

Beef Steak. No. 2. 

Have your frying-pan very hot, wipe the steak dry, 
place in it, and cover tightly. Turn frequently and keep 
covered. When done, add to the gravy a good sized 
lump of butter, salt and pepper to taste. Pour over the 
steak, and serve hot. If your meat is tough, pound well 
with a steak mallet on both sides. 

Touch Beep Steak. 

Set a large kettle on the stove until it is hot, but not so 
as to scorch. Put in the beef, turning frequently, until it 
is well browned. Then pour in water, about a pint to a 
pound of beef, and let it simmer slowly for about a half 
hour. Take out the beef, season the soup with salt and 
pepper, catsup, onions and tomato, if liked, and thicken 
with a little browned flour. Chop the meat fine, season 
with butter, salt and pepper, and lay on slices of toast. 

Corned Beef. {Boiled,) '^ 

Wash the meat carefully. Corned beef should be put 
in cold water and boiled until tender; skim often. It is 
not too much to allow forty minutes for every pound, af- 
ter it has begun to boil. If it is to be eaten cold, it should 
be put away in some flat-bottomed dish, with a weight 
over it Let it stand until perfectly cold, and slice thin. 

Beef Tongue. 

A corned tongue may be put to boil as soon as washed; 
but one that has been long salted should be soaked over 
night. A smoked tongue should be well washed, then 
soaked in a plenty of water over night. All tongues 
should be boiled until so tender that a fork will go in very 
easily. This will require from three to five hours, accord- 
ing to the size. When they begin to boil, the water should 



40 . IIBATS. 

be' carefully skimmed. When you take up the tongue, 
while it is yet hot, remove the skin, which will easily pull 
/ ofiF with the aid of a sharp knife. When it is cold, before 
sending to the table, trim off the roots. The fat on the 
water in which a corned tongue is boiled is nice for short- 
ening; that from a smoked tongue must be put in the 
soap-grease. 

Dried Beef. 

Drfed beef is commonly served by shaving off thin 
shavings or chips to be eaten uncooked. A savory dish 
may be made by putting chips of the beef into a frying- 
pan with enough boiling water to cover them. Let this 
set over the fire for a few minutes, to soften the meat, 
then drain off the water, and put into the pan with the 
bits of meat, a tablespoonful of butter and a little pepper. 
Heat an e^g, or more, according to the quantity of meat, 
and pour mto the pan with the chipped meat. Stir to- 
. gether for a minute or two, until the egg is cooked. Serve 
m a covered dish. 

French Method for Cooking Beef. 

Fdr a family dinner buy several pounds of solid lean 
beef, having it cut, if possible, from that side of the 
round where the flesh is thickest. Do not have it in steaks, 
but thick and square. Lard it very fully with strips of 

; fat salt pork, tie it with a small cord to keep it in shape, 
and put it in a perfectly tight, covered tin pail. Put it in 
without water, and add one carrot chopped, one half slice 
of onion chopped, a little celery seed, a half teaspoonful 
of sage and the same of sweet marjoram and thyme, cover 
the pail in such a way as to entirely exclude the air, and 
put It in an iron pot of water and let it boil steadily. If 
the water in the outside vessel boils away replenish it with 

' hot water from the teakettle, which can be kept at hand 
for the purpose. After three hours open the pail and 
turn the beef the other side up. Add salt and pepper 
and fill the pail nearly to the top with raw potatoes cut in 
thick slices; cover again and boil three hours longer. 



MEATS. 41 

Then take the cord off the meat and put it in the center 
of a large flat dish and surround it with boiled rice; put 
the potatoes upon the rice and pour over all the seasoned 
extract or gravy which will be found in the pail. If it is 
inconvenient to have the range occupied so long by the- 
the kettle, set the pail in the oven and the result will be 
almost equal. In that case it will only require five hours 
cooking instead of six. It seems like a long process, but 
it requires very little care or watching, and if once suc- 
cessfully tried it is sure to become an oft repeated family 
institution. If it is properly prepared no one flavor pre- 
dominates. 

Beef Liver. 

Cut in slices half an inch thick, and pour over them ' 
boiling water until the outside turns white; remove this 
white outer skin, salt, pepper, and flour each slice, and 
fry in hot lard or butter, turning often. When done, take 
from the frying-pan, and pour into it a cup of sweet cream, 
add a little pepper and salt, a teaspoonful of flour ma^de 
smooth with water; boil up once, pour over the liver and 
serve. 

Beef Hash. 

Corned beef is best for a hash, but any kind can be 
used. Take about equal quantities of meat and potato. 
Chop the meat very fine and add the mashed potato; sea- 
son with salt and pepper. Melt a good sized piece of 
butter in the frying-pan, and put in the meat and potato 
with a cupful of milk. Set it over the fire for a few min- 
utes, stirring often to prevent burning. 

If you prefer you can mould the mixture into flat cakes, 
dip them m beaten egg, and fry in hot drippings. 

Meat Pie. 

Take pieces of meat, either steak or roast, and put them* 
' into water and cook^ until very tender. Line a pudding- 
dish with paste, put in a layer of the meat, and season as . 
for chicken pie; fill the dish. A chopped onion and 



49 MEATS. 

■ ! 

sliced parboiled potatoes can be added if desired. Pour 
over this the gravy in which the meat was cooked, thicken 
with a little flour and cover with a crust. Bake until the 
crusts are well cooked. Make a slit in the upper crust, 
before baking, for the steam to escape. 

Crust for Meat Pie. 

I quart of flour. 

3 tablespoonfuls of lard. 
2 14 cups of milk. 

1 teaspoonful of soda, dissolved in hot water, and 
stirred into the milk. 

2 teaspoonfuls cream tartar sifted in the dry flour. 
I teaspoonful of salt. 

"^ Work up quickly and lightly, and do not get too stiif. 

Beef Omelet. 

. 4 pounds of round beef, uncooked, chopped fine. 
6 eggs beaten together. 

5 or 6 soda crackers rolled fine. 
A little butter and suet. 

: Pepper and salt. 

Sage if you choose; make two loaves, roll in cracker; 
bake about an hour, and slice when cold. 

Beef Croquettes. 

Chop fine some cold beef; beat two eggs and mix with 
the meat and add a little milk, melted butter, and salt and 
pepper. Make into rolls and fry. 

Pickle for Beef, Pork and Tongues. 

4 gallons water. 

1 ^ pounds of sugar, or molasses. 

2 ounces saltpeter. 

6 pounds salt. < 

If to last a month or two, this quantity of salt is sufli- 
cicnt, if over summer, nine pounds of salt. Boil all to- 
gether gently; skim and let cool. Put the meat in the 



MEATS. 43 

vessel in which it is to stand. Pour the pickle on the 
meat until it is covered. Keep the meat under the pickle 
with a stone. Use the above proportions for a larger 
quantity if required. This is sufficient <or on^ hundred 
pounds of beef. 

Beef. {To corn.) 

To each gallon of cold water, put one quart of rock 
salt, one ounce of saltpeter and four ounces of brown 
sugar (it need not be boiled), as long as any salt remains 
undissolved, tlie meat will be sweet. If any scum sJiould 
rise, scald and skim well; add more salt, saltpeter and 
sugar; as you put each piece of meat into the brine, rub 
over with salt. If the weather is hot, gash the meat to 
the bone, and put it in salt. Put a flat stone or some 
weight on the meat to keep it under the brine. 

Veal Steak. 

This should be thinner than beef-steak and should be 
thoroughly cooked. Broil upon a well-greased gridiron^ 
over a clear fire; turn frequently while the steaks are cook- 

Veal Cutlets. 

Sprinkle the cutlets with pepper and salt. Dip them in 
beaten egg, roll in fine cracker crumbs, and fry in hot 
drippings or lard. For gravy, add a little water, thicken 
with flour and cook for a few minutes. Serve in a sauce- 
boat. Another way is, to rub the cutlets in melted butter 
and broil on a gridiron as beef-steak, and butter well be- 
fore sending to the table. 

Veal Chops. 

Veal chops are more juicy and less apt to be tough 
than cutlets. Trim as in mutton chops, and fry in butter 
or lard. Dip the chops in beaten egg and fine cracker 
crumbs. The gravy is made in the same way as for cut- 
lets and can be seasoned with parsley or any other season- 
ing desired. 



44 MEATS. 

Broiled Veau 

It must not be done too fast, and will take longer than 
beef. It is a great improvement to broil pork and lay be- 
tween the slices oif veal. Lay them upon the meat while 
it is broiling, and if they are not brown when the veal is 
done, put them a few minutes longer on the gridiron. If 
pork is not .used, season with butter. Add pepper and 
salt. 

Veal Pie, 

Take about two pounds of veal from the loin, fillet, or 
any odd pieces you may have. Parboil long enough to 
clear of the bone, cut in thin even slices. Line a pud- 
ding-dish with a good paste. Put a layer of veal in the 
bottom, seasoned with salt and pepper. Enrich with but- 
ter or slices of salt pork, and dredge in a little flour. So 
proceed until all is m. Pour in a portion of the water in 
which the meat was boiled. Cover with a crust and cut a 
little hole' in the top for the escape of steam. Bake one 

hour and a half. 

■ . * 

^ Roast Fillet op Veal. 

Veal requires more time for roasting than any other 
meat except pork. It is scarcely ever done too much. A 
leg weighing eight or nine pounds should roast three hours. 
Prepare a stuffing of bread, pepper, salt pork, and sweet 
marjoram; make deep incisions in the meat and fill them 
with-it. Fasten the fold of fat which is usually upon the 
fillet over the stuffed incisions with a skewer. Roast it 
slowly at first. Put into the dripping-pan some hot water 
with a little salt in it or some of the stock. When the 
meat has roasted about an hour, flour it thickly, and skewer 
upon it four or five slices of salt pprk; after the flour be- 
comes brown, baste the veal every fifteen minutes. In 
cutting the incisions, endeavor to make them wider inside 
than at the surface, so that the stuffing may not fall out. 



' MEATS. 45 

Veal Pot Pie. 

Take the neck, the shank, and almost any pieces you 
may have. Boil them long enough to skim off all the 
froth. Have ready a kettle; put m a layer of meat, then 
flour, salt and pepper, and add a little butter or a slice or 
two of salt pork, as your choose. *Do this until you have 
laid in all your meat; pour in enough of the water in which 
the veal was boiled to half fill the kettle, then lay on a 
top crust which has been rolled about half an inch thick, 
and make an incision in it to allow the escape of the steam. 
Watch that it does not burn, and pour in more of the 
water through the hole in the crust if necessary. Boil an 
hour and a half. The objection to this dish is, that boiled 
crust is apt to be heavy, and therefore unhealthy; but if 
it is made after the recipe for cream tartar biscuit, It will 
be light. 

A Loin of Veal. 

A breast or a loin of veal should be basted a great 
many times and roasted thoroughly. It is an improve- 
ment to put on slices of pork as m cooking the leg. Al- 
low two hours for roasting; more, if it is large. Flour it 
well. 

Veal Loaf. 

3}^ pounds raw veal (lean and fat). 

I slice salt pork. 

6 small crackers rolled fine. 

Piece of butter, size of an egg. - ^.. 

3 eggs. 

I tablespoonful salt 

I tablespoonful pepper. « 

I tablespoonful sage. 

3 tablespoonfuls extract celery. 

Chop the veal fine, and mix the ingredients thoroughly. 
Pack tightl)r in a deep square tin; cover with bits of but- 
ter, and sprinkle fine cracker-crumbs over the top.' Cov: 



. I 



46 l^EATS. 

cr with another tin. Bake two hours, uncover, and brown 
the top. A nice relish for tea, and should be sliced, thh^ 
when cold. 

Veal Omelet. 

4 pounds lean veal.^ 

1 pound salt pork, chopped fine. 

I tablespoonful salt. 

I tablespoonful pepper. 
. 2 tablespoonfuls sage or thyme. 

4 tablespoonfuls bread crumbs. 

4 eggs (beaten). 

5^ pint sweet cream. 
/; Mix the eggs, cream, and bread crumbs together, then 
add the other ingredients. Bake in a deep dish three 
hours and a half; put small pieces of butter on the top 
j^, before baking. When done turn out on a platter. 

Sweetbread. (Fried.) 

Scald in salt and water, take out the stringy parts; then 
put in cold water a few minutes; dry in a towel; dip in 
egg and bread crumbs, and fry brown in butter; when 
done place in a hot dish. Pour into the pan a cup of 
• sweet cream, a little pepper and salt, and a little parsley 
chopped line; add flour, and when boiling pour over the 
sweetbreads. 

i Sweetbread. {Broiled.) 

iParboil, rub them well with butter, and broil on a clean 
gridiron; turn them often and now and then roll them 
over in a plate containing hot melted butter, to prevent 
them from getting hard and dry. 

Mutton Stew. 

Take three or four poCt;«ad o. meat; cut it in small 
squares, crack the bones and remove all the fat. Put 
meat and bones in enough cold water to cover well, and 
set it where it will gradually heat Cover closely. When 



MEATS. 47 

it has stewed an hour, put in half a pound of salt pork 
cut in strips, a chopped onion, and some pepper. Cover 
and stew until the meat is tender. Make a paste like 
meat pie crust, roll and cut in squares, and drop in the 
stew, and cook ten minutes. Keep closely covered after 
the dumplings are put in or they will be heavy. More 
seasoning, such as parsley and thyme can be added when 
the dumplings are added. Finally thicken with two 
spoonfuls of flour broken up in cold milk, and boil up 
once more. The stew is greatly improved by the addition ' 
of green corn, if in season, which should be added an 
hour before it is taken from the fire. The grains from 
SIX or seven ears, cut from the cob, are sufficient. A stew 
made in this way from lamb, is even better than mutton. 

Roast Mutton. 

The .parts roasted are the shoulder, saddle, loin and 
chine. Wash the meat well, and dry it with a cloth. Put 
the meat on with a little water (which should always be 
done for roast meats). If your fire is hot, allow for roast- 
ing twelve minutes to each pound of meat; baste with 
salt and water, then with the drippings; thicken the. gravy 
with browned flour. 

Broiled Mutton, or Lamb Chops. 

Have the leg cut into steaks at the market, or by the 
♦butcher. Have the slices about the thickness of your 
finger; separate them from the bone neatly. Dip each in , 
beaten egg, roll in pounded cracker, and fry in hot lard or 
drippings. If the fat is not salt, sprinkle the chops with 
salt, before rolling in the egg. Serve up dry an4 hot. 

Or, 

The egg and cracker may be omitted, then broil on a 
gridiron over a brisk fire. Salt, pepper and butter each 
chop before they are sent to the table. Lamb chops may 
be cooked in the same way. ' . : 



48 MKATS. 

Boned Leo of Mutton. 

Have the bone taken out of a nice, fat leg of mutton. 
Make a rich stuffing of bread crumbs, hard boiled eggs 
chopped fine, butter, onions chopped fme, a little sage, a 
sn^all quantity of black pepper, some pickled pork, cut up. 
Fill the leg with this forcemeat, and bake, basting often. ^ 

Boiled Mutton. \ 

Wash a leg of mutton clean and wipe dry. Do not 
leave the knuckle and shank so long as to be unshapely. 
Put into a pot with hot water (saltedjf enough to cover it, 
and boil iintil you ascertain, by probing with a fork, that 
it is tender in the thickest part. Skim off all the scum as 
it rises. Allow about twelve minutes to each pound. Take 
from the fire, drain perfectly dry, and serve with melted 
butter. If you wish to use the broth for soup, put in very 
little salt while boiling; if not, salt it well, and boil the 
meat in a cloth. 

Mutton Cutlets. 

Cut the cutlets from the neck and trim neatly. The 
trimmings and bits of bone may be used for gravy. Lay 
them in melted butter for fifteen or twenty minutes, tak- 
ing care that the butter does not harden. Then dip each 
cutlet in beaten egg and fme cracker crumbs, and put in 
the dripping-pan witl) just water enough to prevent them 
from scorching. Baste often with butter and water, and 
bake quickly. Put the bones and bits of meat in just 
enough cold water to cover them, and stew sufficiently 
long to extract all the substance from them. Strain, sea- 
son, and thicken with a little flour; then pour it over the 
cutlets when ready for the table. 



PORK. I 

Lard. 

Leaf lard is the nicest for all cooking purposes. Skin 
all the fat that is to be tried into lard; if the fat is not 
skinned before trying, the gluten in the skin will make the 
iard impure and frothy. Cut the leaves into small pieces, 
put them in a clean kettle over a slow fire, or in a larger 
vessel of water; throw in a little salt to make the sedi- 
ment settle. Great care must be taken that it does not 
bum, for that will spoil the whole. A teacupful of water 
added before it becomes hot will prevent burning. Dip 
ofif the fat as fast as it liquefies and strain it through a 
cloth; when all is strained that can be dipped off, squeeze 
the remainder by itself through the cloth. If the cloth 
becomes clogged with the cold fat, dip it in hot water. 
Lard keeps much longer in small vessels than in large. 
Bladders tied over the jars are the best protection | next 
to these, paper, and outside of this, cloths dipped in the 
melted lard. To use up the refuse pieces of fat, take the 
fat to which the small intestines are attached (not the large 
ones), and flabby pieces of pork not good for salting; try 
these in the same way as the leaf lard, and set the fat thus 
obtained where it will freeze, and by spring the strong 
taste will be gone, and it can be used for frying. 

Roast Pig. 

It should not be more than a month old, and should be 
killed on the morning of the day it is to be cooked. 
Sprinkle fine salt over it an hour before it is put to the fire. 
Cut off the feet at the first joint Make stuffing enough . 
to fill it very full. When placed in the roaster, confine 
7 



50 PORK. 

the legs in such a manner as to ^ve it good shape. Rub 
it all over with butter or sweet oil, to keep it from blister- 
ing. Flour it at first a little; as soon as it begins to brown, 
dredge on a very thick covering of flour. If the flour 
falls off, instantly renew it. When it has all become of a 
dark brown color, scrape it off into a plate and set it aside. 
Put a piece of butter into the gravy in the roaster, and 
baste the pig very often, until it is done. The feet and 
liver should be boiled an hour or two, and the gravy from 
the roaster be poured into the water in which they were 
boiled. The ^avy should be thickened with the browned 
flour reserved in the plate. A pig a month old will roast 
in two hours and a half. 

Shoulder of Pork. 

^ One weighing ten pounds will require full three hours 
and a half to roast it. For a small family divide it, 
and roast one half and corn the other. With a sharp 
knife score the skin in strips about an inch wide. Make 
a dressing, and put this into deep incisions made in the 
thick part of the meat. Rub a little fine powdered sage 
into the skin where it is scored; and then rub the whole 
surface with sweet oil, or drippings, to prevent its blister- 
ing. Baste often and frequently turn the meat. Pork 
bums very easily, and both the taste and appearance are 
much injured by its being burnt. While cooking, flour it 
often. 

Spare-rid, or Chine. 

A spare-rib requires an hour and a half or two hours, 
according to the thickness. A very thin one will roast in 
an hour and a half. Flour it well, and take care it does 
not bum. Baste it often. The chine requires a longer 
time being a thicker piece, it is more healthy, because 
less fat than the spare-rib, and having more meat in pro- 
portion to the bone, is a more economical piece. Before 
roasting either, trim ofif neatly all the fat which can be 
removed without disfiguring the piece, and set it aside to 
be tried and used as lard. 



PORK. 51 

Pork Steaks. 

Cut slices from the loin and neck. To fry pork steaks ' 
requires twenty-five or thirty minutes. Turn them often. 
If they are quite fat, pour off all that fridi out when they 
are half done and reserve it for some other use. Then 
dip the steaks in crumbs of bread with a little powdered 
sage, and lay them back into the frying-pan. When done 
through take them up, dredge a little browned dour into 
the gravy, put in salt, pour m a gill of boiling water, and 
turn it instantly, as it boils up, upon tlie dish of stesdcs. 

To Make Sausages. 

6 lbs. lean fresh pork. 

3 lbs. fat fresh pork. ^ 

1 2 teaspoonfuls powdered sage. 

6 teaspoonfuls black pepper. 

6 teaspoonfuls salt. 

Grind the meat, fat and lean, in a sausage-mill, or chop 
it very fine, and the latter can l3e done much easier when 
the meat is frozen^ Mix the seasoning in with your hands, 
taste, to be sure all is right, and pack in stone jars, pour- 
ing melted lard on top. Another good way of preserving 
them is, to make long, narrow bags of stout muslin, large 
enough to contain, each, enough sausage for a family dish. 
Fill these with the meat, dip in melted lard, and hang 
from the beams of the cellar. If you wish to pack in the 
intestines of the hog, they should be carefully prepared, 
as follows: Empty them, cut them in lengths, and lay for 
two days in salt and water. Turn them inside out, and 
lay in soak one day longer. Scrape them, rinse in soda 
and water, wipe and blow into one end, having tied up 
the other with a bit of twine. If they are whole and 
clear, stuff with the meat; tie up and hang in the store- 
room or cellar. 

To Fry Sausages. 

These are fried in the cases, in a clean, dry frying-pan 
until brown. If you have the sausage meat in bulk, make 



5 a POBK. 

in small, round flat cakes, and fry in the same manner. 
Some dip in egg and pounded cracker, others roll in flour 
before cooking. Their own fat will cook them. Send to 
table dry and j^ot, but do not let them fry hard. When 
one side is done turn the other. The fire should be very 
brisk. Fifteen or twenty minutes is long enough to cook 
them. V 

Bologna Sausage. 

Take equal parts of veal, pork, and ham. Chop them 
fine and season with sweet herbs, salt, pepper (cayenne 
and black), and spices if desired. Stuff into beef skins; 
tie them up, prick the skins in several places to allow the 
steam to escape, and put them into hot water and gradu- 
ally heat to the boiling point. Cook slowly for an hour, 
then take out the skins and let them dry in the sun. Rub 
the outside of the skins when dry, with oil, or melted but- 
ter, and hang in a dry, cool cellar. If they are to be kept 
some time, rub pepper over the outside of the skins. 
These can be eaten without more cooking, although some 
persons prefer to boil them in a little water before eating. 
Cut in round slices when sent to the table. 

Molasses Cured Hams. 

Moisten every part of the ham with molasses, and then 
for every one hundred pounds, use one quart of fine salt, 
and four ounces of saltpetre; rubbing them in thoroughly 
at every point. Put the hams thus prepared, in a tight 
cask for four days. Then rub again with molasses and 
one quart salt, and return to the cask for four days. Re- 
peat this the third and fourth time, and then smoke the 
hams. This process takes only sixteen days, while other 
methods require five or six weeks. 

Boiled Ham or Shoulder. 

A ham, weighing twelve pounds, should be cooked four 
or five hours. Boil i^ slowly in a plenty of water half 
the time it should be cooked; then take off the skin and 



PORK. 53 

any excrescences that were not removed by washing. 
Cover the fat side with i)ounded cracker, and lay it in a 
dripping-pan, or iron basin, and put it into the stove. Let 
it remain the other half of the time. The baking roasts 
out a great quantity of fat, and leaves the . mea^ much 
more delicate. In warm weather it will keep in a dry, 
cool place, a long time. If a ham is very salt, it should 
lie in water over night. In baking it, care should be taken 
that it is not done too much, and thus made dry. The 
fat which bakes out is good to fry e^gs, or potatoes, and 
if not strong will do to use on the griddle. 

Ham Ai^D Eggs. 

Cut thin slices and take off the rind; if Very salt, 'pour 
hot water upon them, but do not suffer them to lie long 
in it, as the juices of the meat will be lost. Wipe them 
in a cloth; have the spider ready hot, lay in the pieces 
and turn them in a minute or two. They will cook in a 
very short time. The secret of having good fried ham is 
in cooking it quickly and not too much. The practice of 
cutting thick slices, laying them into a cold spider and 
frying a long time, makes ham black and hard. Have the 
eggs ready, and drop them, one at a time, in the hissing 
fat Have a large pan for this purpose, that they ma 
not touch and run together; in three minutes they will be 
done. The meat should be kept hot, and when the eggs 
are ready, lay one upon each slice of ham. 

Broiled Ham. 

Cut the slices very thin; pare off the rind, and lay them 
on the gridiron over hot coals. Do not leave them a mo* 
ment, as they must be almost immediately turned, and will 
need attention to keep the edges from burning. 

• Salt Pork. {Fried,) 

Cut into slices, and lay them in cold water in the spider; 
boil them up two or three minutes, then pour off. the wa- 
ter and set the spider again on the toals and brown the 



S4 PORK. 

slices on each side. Fried pork with baked potatoes, and 
fried sour apples makes a very good dinner. It is an im- 
provement to dip the pork, after being parboiled, into In- 
dian meal, before frying it. 

Pigs Feet. 

. They should be thoroughly cleaned and thrown into 
salt water over night, then boiled until almost in pieces. 
While cooking drop in the water a small red pepper pod, 
a few whole cloves and allspice. When done and well 
drained, put the feet one by one into a jar and cover with 
good clear vinegar, and in two days they will be ready for 
the table. A pice breakfast dish is made by cutting the 
feet into halves, dipping them in a batter, and frying in 
hot lard till they are of a light brown. , 

Head Cheese or Souse. 

This is made of the head, ears, and tongue. Boil them 
in salted water until very tender. Strip the meat from 
the bones and chop ftne. Season with salt, pepper, sage, 
sweet marjoram, and half a cup of strong vinegar. Mix 
all together thoroughly, taste to see that it is flavored suf- 
ficiently, remembering that the spice tends to keep it; 
pack hard in moulds or bowls. Press down and keep the 
meat in shape by putting a plate on the top of each mould 
(first wetting the plate), and a weight upon this. In two 
days the cheese will be ready for use. This is generally 
eaten cold for tea, with vinegar and mustard; but it is very 
nice cut in slices, seasoned slightly with' mustard, and 
warmed in a frying-pan with enough butter to prevent 
burning. 

Tripe. 

V 

Boil it until tender. AVhen cold, cut it in pieces four 
or five inches square; flour it a little, grease the gridiron 
and broil over a clear fire; lay it in a hot dish, add pepper 
and salt and butter and serve. To fry it; lay two or three 
slices of fat pork into a spider, and when these are crisp, 



PORK, ^ 55 

/ 
dip th^ pieces of tripe in a beaten egg, and sprinkle them * 
with fine crumbs of bread 'or cracker and fry brown« 
They are sometimes dipped in batter. 

Baked Pork and Deans. 

For a family of six or seven, take a quart of white beans, 
wash them in several waters, and put them into two or 
three quarts over night. In the morning boil them until 
they begin to crack open; then put them in a brown pan, 
such as are made for the purpose; pour upon them enough 
hot water to cover them. Take a pound of salt pork and 
cut the rind into narrow strips; lay it on top of the beans, 
and press it down so that it will lie more than half its 
thickness in the water. Bake several hours, four or five 
is not too much. Where a brick oven is used, it is well 
to let beans remain in it over night. If they are baked 
in a stove, or range, more water may be necessary, before 
they are done. Many persons think it" an improvement 
to put in a large spoonful or two of molasses. Those 
who object to the use of pork, can have a very good dish of 
beans by substituting fat beef, and adding two teaspoonfuls 
of salt. To heat over baked beans, put them in a spider 
with a little water; heat them slowly at first, and cover 
closely. If they are too moist, remove the cover and stir 
often. 



y 



POULTRY. 



A young turkey has a smooth leg, and a soft bill» and if 
fresh the eyes will be bright^ and the feet moist Old tur- 
keys have scaly, stiff feet. 

Young fowls have a tender skin, smooth legs, and the 
breast bone readily yields to the pressure of the finger. 
The best are those that have yellow legs. The feet and 
legs of old fowls look as if they had seen hard service in 
the world. Young ducks feel tender under the wing, and 
the web of the foot is transparent; the best are thick and 
hard on the breast. Young geese have yellow bills, and 
the feet are yellow and supple; the skin may be easily 
broken by the head of a pin; the breast is plump, and the 
.fat white. An old goose is unlit for the human stomach. 

Roast Turkey or Chicken. 

Dress and wash the fowl inside and out in two or three 
waters; in next to the last, mix a tea^poonful of soda, the 
soda is very cleansing. Fill the body with the soda water, 
shake well, empty it out and rinse thoroughly with clear 
water. Salt and pepper the inside, and fill the body and 
breast with the dressmg given below. Sew it up with a 
^needle and coarse thread; tie the skin over the neck with 
a thread or piece of twine. Sprinkle pepper and salt on 
the outside, and dredge thickly with flour. Put in a slow 
oven allowing fifteen minutes to the pound; as a general 
rule that is sufficient, but of course one must be guided 
by the age of the fowl. Baste frequently; stew the gib- 
lets in. a sauce-pan, when cooked chop fine, add the water 
in which they were boiled, to the gravy of the roast fowl, 
also the chopped giblets; thicken with a little flour previ- 



^ POULTRY, 57 

ously wet in water. Boil up once and pour in a gravj 
boat If the fowl is very fat, skim the drippings well be- 
fore putting in the giblets. 

Dressing for Turkey or Chicken. 

Grate bread crumbs line, and mix with them butter, 
pepper, salt, thyme, marjoram or sage; wet with hot water 
' or milk. You may, if you like, add the beaten yolks of 
two eggs, or mince a dozen oysters and stir into the dress- 
ing, and if partial to the taste wet the bread crumbs with 
the oyster liquor. Stuff the craw with this and tie a string 
tightly about the neck to prevent the escape of the stuff- 
ing; then fill the body of the fowl and sew up with a 
strong thread. This and the neck string must be removed i 
when the fowl is dished. 

Boiled Turkey or Chicken. 

Take a young fowl, fill the inside with oysters and 
dressing, and baste about it a thin cloth fitted closely to 
every part; the inside of the cloth should be dredged with 
flour to prevent the cloth sticking to it. Place in a kettle 
of boiling water, enough to cover it well. Boil until ten- 
der. There will be a gravy in the kettle from the juice 
of the fowl. Make this into a white sauce with the addi-^ 
tion of a little butter or cream. Add oysters, or serve up 
plain; the addition of a little parsley is an improvement. 

Pressed Turkey or Chick^en. 

Boil one or two chickens in enough water to cook very 
tenderl Take them out when done, remove all the bones, 
mincing the meat very fine; season with salt, pepper and 
butter, and return them to the water in which they were 
boiled. Cook them until the liquor is nearly gone; then 
pour the contents into a deep dish, lay a plate over it, put 
on a weight and set away in a cool place. When eaten, 
cut in slices. It will be as firm as cheese, and is very 
nice for tea. 
• ■ 8 '- ■ 



58 POULTRY. 

Fricasseed Chicken. 

Boil them until tender in water enough barely to 
cover them. Take ofF. the scum as fast as it rises. Take 
them up and carve in the usual way. Put part of the 
water in which they were boiled into a spider or stew-pan. 
For two cliickens rub a piece of butter as large as an egg, 
and a spoonful of flour together, and stir into the water 
as it boils up. Add some salt, and a gill of cream or milk. 
Lay in the pieces of chicken, cover the pan close, and 
stew them gently twenty minutes. Parsley cut fine is a 
decided improvement. 

' y ' ' Fried Chicken. 

Cut the chicken in pieces, lay it in salt and water," which 
should be changed several times. Roll each piece in flour, 
beat two eggs, dip each piece in this and fry in hot lard. 
Season with salt and pepper. For gravy use cream or 
rich milk, seasoned with salt and pepper, and' butter 
rubbed into flour. Stir constantly until it boils again. 

Broiled Chicken. 

If you are not sure your chicken is tender, it can be 
prepared in the followmg way: X-ay some sticks across a 
dripping-pan filled with boiling water, and place the fowl 
. on the sticks, after splitting it open through the back. 
Cover with a pan and steam for half an hour in the oven, 
and then transfer to a buttered gridiron, inside downward; 
broil slowly and let care be taken that they do not bum; 
turn in ten minutes. To keep them flat lay a tin sheet 
upon them with a weight. Turn several times; broil half or 
three-quarters of an hour. They can be broiled best in 
charcoal. 

Pickled Chicken. 

Take in the fall, large, fat chickens, dress and boil 
whole until the meat will slip easily from the bbne; place 
them in earthen jars, and pour over hot vinegar. When 
cold, they are ready for use. A nice relish for the tea- 



POULTRY. 59 

table, and much more wholesome, and quite as palatable, 
as pickled pigs feet. 

Chicken Pie. 

Boil chickens in water barely to cover them, until ten- 
der. Skim the water carefully. Take themout inadish* 
cut them up, and remove the larger bones. If the skin 
is very thick, remove it. ^ Hfive ready, lined with a thick 
paste, a deep dish, of a size proportioned to the number 
of chickens you wish to use; put in the pieces, with the 
hearts and livers, in layers; sprinkle each layer with flour, 
salt, and pepper, and put on each piece of chicken a 
thin shaving of butter; do this until you have laid in all 
the pieces; put rather more flour and butter over the top 
layer than on the previous ones, and pour in as much of 
the liquor in which the chickens were boiled as you can 
without danger of its boiling over. Lay on the upper 
crust, ^nd close the edges very carefully with flour and 
water; prick the top with a knife. Cut leaves of crust 
and ornament it. Bake two hours. The crust for chicken 
pie should be twice as thick as for fruit pies. 

Prairie Chickens, Quails and other Small Birds. 

Dress with care, using a little .soda in the water in 
which they are washed, then rinse and wipe them dry, and 
fill with dressing; sew them up neatly, and bind down the^ ' 
legs and wings with cords. Put them in a steamer and 
let them cook until just done. Then set them in the 
oven, in a pan, with salt and a small piece of butter, and 
baste often until they are of a nice brown, which ought 
not to take more tli^n fifteen minutes. 

Broiled Prairie Chicken. 

Broil like other chickens, but longer, because* they are 
larger, and the meat is thick. The fire should not be very 
hot, as they should broil gradually. Lay upon a hot plat- 
ter, s])rinkle with salt and pepper and put on a plenty of 
butter. The meat is very dry, therefore considerable but- 
ter is necessary. 



oo poultry. 

Fricasseed Prairie Chicken. 

Remove the inwards, wash the chickens, and boil an 
hour, or a little more. Skim carefully. Strain the liquor 
into a stew-pan. When it boils up, add, for one chicken, 
a spoonful of butter, two or three teaspoonfuls of browned 
flour, salt, and a Httle pepper, and stew ten minutes. 

Roast Duck. 

Clean, wash and wipe the ducks very carefully. To the 
usual dressing add a little sage, and a minced shallot. 
Stuff and sew up as usual, reserving the giblets for the 
gravy. If they are tender, they will not require more 
than an hour to roast. Baste well. Skim the gravv be* 
fore putting in the giblets and thickening. The giblets 
. should be stewed in a very little water, then chopped flne, 
, and added to the gravy in the dripping-pan, with a 
chopped shallot and a spoonful of browned flour. 

Roast Goose. 

Wash thoroughly, using a little soda, rinse and then boil 
half an hour to take- out the strong, oily taste; stuff and 
roast it exactly like a turkey. If it is a young one, an 
hour's roasting will be sufficient. 

Roast Pigeons. 

Pick out the pin feathers, or if there are a great many, 
pull off the skin. Examine the inside very carefully. 
Soak them half an hour in a good deal of water, to take 
out the blood. Then boil them with a little salt in the 
water, half an hour, and take off the scum as fast as it 
rises. Take them out, flour them well, and lay them in a 
dripping-pan; strain the water in which they were boiled, 
and put a part of it into the pan; stir in it a little piece 
of butter, and baste the pigeons often. Add pepper and 
sweet marjoram if you prefer. Roast them nearly two 
hours. Pigeons need to be cooked a long time. 



POULTRY. 6l 



Pigeon Pie. 



Picky soak and boil pigeons with the same care as di- 
rected in the recipe for roasting them. Make a crust as 
for chicken or veal pie. Lay in the pigeons whole, and 
season with pepper, salt, shavings of butter, and sweet 
marjoram; flour them thickly, then strain the water in 
which they were boiled, and fill the dish two-thirds full 
with it. Lay the top crust over and close the edges well. 
Make many incisions with the point of a knife, or a large 
fork, and bake an hour Hid. a half. 



GAME. 

To Keep Game from Tainting. 

Draw as soon as they come into your possession; rinse 
with soda and water, then with pure cold water; wipe dry, 
and rub them lightly with a mixture of fine salt and black 
pepper. If you must keep them some time, put in the 
cavity of each fowl a piece of charcoal; hang them in a 
cool, dark place, with a cloth thrown over them. Small 
birds, unless there are too many of them, may be kept in 
a refrigerator after you have drawn, washed and wiped 
them. The charcoad is an admirable preventive of de- 
composition. 

Venison. 

Roast a haunch like a loin or leg of veal, and about as 
long. Flour it thickly. Put some of the stock for gravies, 
or water in which beef has been boiled, into a pan, and 
baste it often. Half an hour before serving it, add a 
tablespoonful of butter to the gravy, and baste it again 
and again. Most persons like venison cooked simply with- 
out spices. But if you prefer a dressing, make it as for 
veal, with the addition of powdered clove. 

Venison steaks are cooked like beef steaks. 

Rabbits and Squirrels. 

Clean and wash them well; scald them fifteen or twenty 
minutes in just water enough to cover them. Skim the 
water, cut them up, and dip the pieces in beaten egg, and 
roll in bread crumbs or pounded crackers, with salt and a 
little pepper. Fry them brown in butter; lay them in a 
fricassee dish. Put a little of the water in which they 
were boiled into the spider; rub two spoonfuls of browned 



GAME. 63 

flour smooth in some of the water, and stir into the spider, 
and pour over the pieces. If the gravy does not seem 
. rich enough, stir into it a small spoonful of butter. Rab- 
bits are also stuffed and roasted. 

Roast Fawn. 

Clean and wash thoroughly; stuff with a dressing made of 
bread crumbs, chopped pork, pepper and salt. Moisten 
with water and cream, bind with beaten egg and melted 
butter. Sew up the fawn, turning the legs under, and 
binding close to the body. Cover with thin slices of fat 
pork, bound on with pack thread, crossing in every direc- 
tion, and roast at a quick fire. Allow twenty-two minutes 
to a pound. Twenty minutes before it is dished, remove 
the pork and set down the fawn to brown, basting with 
melted butter. At last, dredge with flour, let this brown, 
froth with butter and serve. A kid can be roasted the 
same way, also hares and rabbits. 

Boiled Partridges. 

Put them in a floured cloth into boiling water, and boil 
them fast fifteen minutes. For sauce, rub a very small 
piece of butter into some flour, and boil in a teacupful of 
cream. Add cut parsley if preferred. 

Roast Partridges. 

Prepare them like chickens, and roast three-quarters of 
<Ln hour. 



SAUCES FOR MEAT AND FISH. 

Gravy. 

When ready to make the gravy, remove the roast from 
the dripping-pan and stir into the stock which is in the 

Ean, flour sufficient to thicken the gravy, be careful to 
reak the flour thoroughly in a little water, then pour over 
the thickened stocky boiling water'and place over the fire, 
about five minutes, stirring constantly. If there is but 
little fat in the stock, as will be the case in veal or venison, 
add some butter when ready to stir in the flour. Strain 
when done. 

Gravy for Poultry is made by boiling the giblets (necks, 
gizzards, hearts and livers,) by themselves in five or six 
gills of wat^r. Skim carefully as a great deal of scum 
will rise. After an hour or more, take them out, and pour 
the water into the dripping-pan. Chop the liver §jie, and 
add this to the gravy, and a bit of butter, some wet flour, 
and if you choose, a little sweet marjoram. In making 
gravy for .a goose, pour off all the drippings, and put in 
some of the stock or meat liquor. 

Melted or Drawn Butter. 

3 tablespoonfuls of flour. 

% cup of butter. 

I pint of water or milk. 

A little salt 

Break up, and beat well, the flour in milk or water. 
Cut the butter in small bits and put it in the water, in a 
vessel on the stove and when hot stir in gradually the 
thickening; taking care that it does not form lumps. If 
mi^c b used, the vessel should be placed within . another 



SAUCES FOR MEAT AND FISH. 65 

containing water. Mix with milk for puddings, with 
water for fish and meat. 

Ego Sauce. 

Make a sauce of drawn butter as in directions above. 
Chop fine three hard boiled eggs, and stir into the drawn 
butter. This is used for fish and some kinds of vegeta- 
bles. For fish, add capers or nasturtium seeds. The 
hard boiled. eggs can be omitted, and two raw eggs well 
beaten, stirred into the drawn butter. 

Oyster Sauce, 

1 pint of oysters. 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 
% lemon. 

I teacup fill milk or cream. 

f teaspoonful of flour. 

Cayenne and nutmeg to taste. 

Stew the oysters in their own liquor five minutes, and 
then add the milk in which the flour has been broken up. 
Put in the butter and pepper, boil for one minute and 
remove the sauce-pan from the fire. Squeeze in lemon- 
juice when ready to serve. 

This sauce is used for boiled halibut, cod and other fish; 
also for boiled turkey, chickens, and any other kind of 
white meat. 

Celery Sauce. 

Put a pint of milk to boil in a tin pail set in a kettle of 
boiling water. Cut fine six stalks of celery, and add to 
the milk, with a little salt. When the celery is soft, which 
will be in about an hour, stir in a spoonful of butter 
rubbed into half a spoonful of flour. If the sauce seems 
too thick, add enough milk to make it of the consistency 
of good cream. Let it remain a few moments, stirring 
constantly, and then serve. 
9 



66 SAUCES FOR MEAT AND FISH. 

Caper Sauce. {For JSoiled Mutton or Lamb!) 

% pint milk. 

I teaspoonful cornstarch or flour. 

f teaspoonful butter. 

« tablespoonfuls capers. 

Boil the milk, then stir in the cornstarch or flour nibbed 
smooth in cold milk, and then the butter. Last of all, 
add the capers, and let it boil up. . 

Anchovy Sauce. 

Polmd three anchovies, and rub 'through a sieve. Stir 
them into half a pint of drawn butter. Add, also, lemon- 
juice, and a pinch of cayenne pepper. 

Mavonaise Sauce. 

Yolks of 2 raw eggs (not a particle of the white or 
your sauce will curdle). 

1 \^ mustard spoonfuls of mixed mustard. 

Beat the yolks of the eggs and mustard together; add 
very slowly the best salad oil, stirring constantly until you 
can reverse the dish without spilling; then add one table- 
spoonful of vinegir, and cayenne and black pepper to 
taste; half a teaspoonful of salt. Stir briskly until quite 
light colored, and serve on lobster, lettuce or fish. 

Mint Sauce for Roast Lamb. 

2 tablespoonfuls of green mint chopped fine. 
I tablespoonful powdered sugar. 

J4 teacupful of vinegar. 

Soak the mint to remove all the gravel and chop very 
fine. Mix the sugar and vinegar (taking care that the 
sugar is all dissolved before sending to the table) in a 
sauce-boat, and stir in the mint. This gives a very fine 
flavor to lamb. 



EGGS. 

Elements op Eggs. 

Eggs contain two distinct substances, the yolk and the 
white, and in the latter is found a greater proportion of 
albumen than in the yolk. The white contains fifteen 
parts albumen out of every one hundred parts, the re- 
mainder being water. After the white has been heated it 
changes its transparent color, hardens, and becomes an 
opaque white, from which it derives its Latin name albas, 
white. The yolk also contains a considerable quantity of 
albumen, also drops of yellow oil. This oil forms about 
iwo-Lhirds of the weight of the yolk. Sulphur is also 
found in large proportion in the yolk, which causes silver 
to tarnish, when used in cg^s which have been cooked; 
this also produces the offensive smell when the eggs are 
rotten. Vegetable albumen differs in no respect from 
that contained in eggs which is composed of carbon, oxy- 
gen, hydrogen, a large proportion of nitrogen and sulphur, 
except that albumen of eggs contains a slightly larger pro- 
portion of sulphur. Eggs form a very valuable food, for 
like milk they contain all the ^material reqi^red for the 
growth of the body, as is demonstrated in the chicken, 
which is formed from the materials within the shell. The 
digestibility of eggs greatly depend on the manner of 
cooking. When raw or lightly cooked, they are more 
readily digested than when hard boiled or fried. 

Scrambled Eggs. 
6 eggs. 

I tcaspoonful salt. 
I tablespoonfiil butter. 
Put the butter in the frying pan, and when hot drop in 



68 EGGS. 

the eggs (unbeaten) which should be broken into a bowL 
Stir ill the pepper and salt, and keep stirring without ces- 
sation for three minutes. Serve in a hot dish, or upon 
toast. Do not let them remain in the pan until stiff. 

Plain Omelbt. 

6 eggs. 

I cup milk. 

Butter, salt and pepper. 

Beat the whites to a stiff froth that will stand alone, the 
yolks to a smooth, thick batter. Add to the yolks, the 
milk, pepper and salt, lastly stir in the whites lightly. 
Have ready in the frying-pan a good lunip of butter. 
When it hisses pour in the mixture and set over a clear 
fire. It must not cook longer than ten minutes. Do not 
stir, but as the eggs "set" slip a knife under the omelet to 
guard against burning at the bottom. When done, lay a 
hot dish bottom up on the pan, and upset the latter to 
bring the brown side of the omelet uppermost. Eat soon, 
or it will falL 

Omelet. (Fried.) 

6 eggs. 

6 tablespoonfuls milk. 

}i cup butter (melted). 
.. A little salt. 
i-^Beat the eggs well, and add the milk, butter and salt. 
Fry on a griddle hot enough for cakes; buttered to*pre- 
vent sticking. Drop them on the griddle like large cakes. 
When they begin to set, turn up the edge, and as they 
brown fold them over and over. Then let them lie a 
moment more. Serve as hot as possible. 

Poached Eggs. 
6 eggs. 
I pmt milk. 
I teaspoonful salt. 
I tablespoon ful butter. 

Set a tin pan or pail on the stove containing the millL 
Beat the eggs well. When the milk is nearly boiling put 



EGGS. 69 

in salt and butter; then add the eggs, and stir steadily un- 
til it thickens, which will be in a minute or two. Set it 
off before it becomes very thick, and continue to stir it a 
minulc more. Have ready in a warm dish, a few slices 
of toasted bread spread with butter, and pour the egg 
over it. It should be a little thicker than boiled custard. 

Poached Eggs, (i la Crime,) 

Nearly fill a clean frying-pan \yith strained water boil- 
ing hot; strain a tablespoonful of vinegar through double 
muslin, and add to the water with a little salt. Slip your 
egg from the saucer upon the top of the water (first taking 
the pan from the fire). Boil three minutes and a half, 
drain, and lay on buttered toast in a warm dish. Turn 
the water from the pan and pour in half a cupful of cream 
or milk. If you use the latter, thicken with a very little 
cornstarch. Let it heat to a boil, stirring to prevent burn- 
ing, and add a great spoonful of butter, some pepper and 
salt. Boil up once slnd pour over the eggs. A better 
way still is to heat the milk in a separate saucepan, that 
the eggs may not have to stand. A little broth miprpves 
the sauce. 

Boiled Eggs. 

New laid eggs require half a minute longer to cook 
than others. The fresher they are the better, and the 
more healthful. Eggs over a week old should never be 
boiled; they will do to fry. Put them into water that 
boils, but not furiously, as it will crack them. If you like 
them very soft, boil them three minutes. If you wish the 
yolk hard, boil them five minutes. To be served with 
salad, they should be boiled twelve minutes. ^ 

Fried Eggs. 

After you have fried ham, drop in the eggs one at a 
time. In about a minute dip the boiling fat with a spoon 
over them again and again. This will prevent the neces- 
sity of turning them which is difficult to do without 



70 EGGS. 

breaking the ^olks. Take them up in about two minutes 
and a half,^with a skimmer. The fat that roasts out of a 
ham that is* browned in an oven, is good for frying eggs. 

Dropped Eggs. 

Drop fresh eggs into a sauce-pan of boiling water with 
salt in it. Put them in gently, so as not to break the yolks. 
Have ready slices of buttered toast, and either take up the 
eggs with a skimmer, or pour off the water, and then turn 
them out upon the toast. Add more salt if they are not 
seasoned enough by that which is in the water. 

Packing Eggs. 

Pack in bran or salt, with the small end downward if 

irou wish to use within a few weeks. If to be kept for a 
onger time, a surer method is to smear them well with 
linseed oil, or a weak solution of gum tragacanth, or var- 
nish, this excludes the air. Another method is to make a 
pretty strong lime water; allowing a pound of lime to a 
gallon of boiling water; when perfectly cold, fill a large 
jar with it, in which you have packed the eggs, small end 
downward. Lay a saucer, or light weight on the top to 
keep them under water, and keep in a cool place. Renew 
the lime water every three weeks. You may add an ounce 
of saltpeter to it. 



MILK, BUTTER AND CHEESE. 

Milk. 

Milk consists of water in large proportion, caseine, oi 
curd, butter, sugar of milk, and saline matter, in small 
proportions. Caseine in many of its properties closely re- 
sembles albumen. If a. little sulphuric acid be stirred in 
some skimmed milk, it will coagulate in a short time, and 
form a clird, from which can be obtained pure caseine, 
which forms one of the chief ingredients of cheese. 

Caseine is found also in beans, peas, and perhaps in all 
vegetable juices. So large a proportion of caseine is 
found in peas that the Chmese make a cheese from ihein, 
which in time accjuires the smell and taste of milk cheese, 
an^ is a favorite article of food when fresh. The caseine 
found in vegetables is called legumine, to distinguish it 
from that of milk. When milk has been exposed to the 
air for a length of time, it acquires a sour taste which 
gradually increases in intensity till at length the whole 
begins to ferment. This sour taste is owing to the pro^ 
duction of a peculiar acid, which is called acid of milk, 
or lactic acid. The same acid is formed during the fer- 
mentation of the juice of beets, in sour cabbage (sauer 
kraut), and in many other kinds of vegetables which are 
allowed to ferment. The souring of milk arises from the 
action of caseine by converting the sugar in the milk into 
an acid. If milk be kept at low temperature it may be 
preserved sweet for several days. The quality of the 
milk depends largely upon the race and size of the cTow. 
As a general rule small races, or small cows of a larger 
race, give the richest milk from the same kind of food. 
From extensive experiments made in England it was found 
that the Holderness breed gave the largest quantity of 
milk, and second the Alderney. Either of these varieties 



72 MILK, BUTTER AND CHEESS. 

will be found well suited for family or town dairymen who 
wish to use the milk and cream for market. Mr. Youatt 
states that the "milch cow should have a long, thin head, 
with* a brisk but placid eye; she should be thin and hol- 
low in the neck, narrow in the breast and point of the 
shoulders, and altogether lifeht in the fore quarters, but 
wide in the loins, with little dewlap. The udder should 
be especially large, round and full, with milk veins pro- 
truding, yet thin skinned, but not hanging loose or tend- 
ing far behind. The teats should also stand squarely, all 
pointing out at equal distance and of the same size, and 
although neither very large nor thick toward the udder, 
yet long and tapering toward a point. Her feeding should 
be carefully attended to; great care should be t;vken not 
to give food which will injure the flavor of the milk. She 
should have a teacuj) of salt at least once a week. Be 
careful that she is not allowed to run from the pasture. 

Butter. 

Butter prepared in any of the usual ways contains more 
or less of all the ingredients contained in milk, but con- 
sists more essentially of the fat of milk intimately mixed 
with greater or less proportion of caseine, water, and a small 
quantity of sugar of milk. The nature of the food must 
in all cases affect the proportion of fatty and cheesy mat- 
ter in our domestic butter. Besides the caseine and sugar, 
butter usually contains some coloring matter derived from 
the substance on which the cow has been feed. From 
experiments in England it has been proved^ that Ayrshire 
cows produced the largest amount of butter. The con- 
stitution of the animal will affect the quality of the but- 
ler, as there are some cows from which good butter can 
never be made, however well they may be fed. The 
chances of good butter at all seasons of the year are in 
favor of churning the whole milk, instead of the cream; 
but when the milk is churned, the temperature should be 
higher than for cream alone. This course is only prac- 
ticable in large dairies. Cream should not be warmer 



MILK, BUTTER AND CHEESE. 73 

when the churning begins than 55** F. Milk ought to be 
raised to 65** F. It is ahnost needless to allude to clean- 
liness, as being necessary for good butter, but we do wish to 
impress the fact upon the minds of those who may have 
had no experience in butter making. Cream is remark- 
able for the rapidity with which it absorbs, and becomes 
tainted by, unpleasant odors. It is very necessary that 
the air of the milk-room should be sweet and often re- 
newed, and be careful to have it away from the direction 
whence bad odors come. Also strict cleanliness and care 
must be taken with all dishes used in the dairy. If but- 
ter is to be kept for a length of time, great care must be 
taken to exclude the air from every part. In butter to be 
salted the sooner it can be done and the butter packed 
close, the better and sweeter it will remain. The salt 
should be as pure as possible, free from lime and magne- 
sia as it can be obtained, since these substances are apt to 
give it a bitter or other disagreeable taste. Common salt 
can be easily purified from these by pouring a couple 
quarts of water upon fifteen or twenty pounds of salt, 
stirring the whole occasionally for two hours and thtn 
straining it through a clean cloth. The water which runs 
through is a saturated solution of salt and contains all of 
the impurities, but may be used for common culinary 
purposes, or fed to the cattle. The salt which remains 
on the cloth is free from the soluble salts of lime and 
magnesia, and may be hung up in the cloth until it is dry 
enough to be used to mix with the butter and cheese. 
The point in salting butter is to take care that all the 
water which remains in the butter shall be fully saturated 
with salt, that is to say, shall have dissolved as much as it 
can possibly take up, and that in no part of the butter 
shall there be a particle of cheesy matter which is not 
also in contact with the salt. It is not uncommon to em- 
ploy a mixture of salt, saltpeter, sulphur and sugar (01 
the preservation of butter. 



^^ milk, dutter and cheess. 

Butter Making. 

As experienced butter makers have their own way of 
making butter, we do not presume to show a better way, 
but for the benefit of any who wish to make their own 
butter, or for market, and are inexperienced in the art, 
we have copied from the " New York Tribune " the direc- 
tions given by John Stuart, Manchester, Iowa, who re- 
ceived a gold medal for best 50-pound package of butter 
at the Centennial display in June. These directions, al- 
though applying to a large dairy can be made useful for 
family butter making. 

Mr. S. describes his mode of making as follows: His 
pans are 2 feet wide by 4 feetv long and "^4 inches deep. 
During warm weather they are set in vats of cold wa!er, 
in a room of 62 to 65 degrees which raises the cream in 
36 hours, when it is skimmed. In warm, muggy weather 
and thunder showers, it is skimmed sooner. He considers 
it important to skim at just the right time. His churn- 
ing is done by horse power in a rotating, rectangular box 
chum, having neither floats nor dasher inside. The 
churning is done upon the first appearance of acidity, 
and is put into the chum at 58 to 65 degrees according to 
outside temperature. Time of chuming, 30 to 45 min- 
utes. Churning ceases as soon as butter comes, and be- 
fore it is gathered into a mass. The butter-milk is then 
drawn off, and clear cold brine put in, and the churn gent- 
ly agitated, till the brine, butter and butter-milk are well 
mixed, when it is drawn off and more 'cold brine is added, 
and the same process repeated till the butter-milk is all 
removed, as it will quickly be, without working the butter 
at all, and the butter left in fine hard granules or lumps, 
and in the best possible condition for receiving salt. The 
butter-milk being out, the butter is seasoned with three- 
quarters of an ounce of salt to the pound, and set away 
till the next day, when it is worked and packed in tubs 
prepared by soaking in strong brine. 



MILK, DUTT£R AND CUE£S£. 75 

CUE£S£. 

When milk is left to itself for a certain length of time 
it becomes sour and curdles, but the curd and whey do 
not readily separate unless a gentle heat is applied, when 
the curd contracts in bulk and floats upon the whey, or 
is placed in a perforated cheese vat which allows the whey 
to How from it. The natural curdling of the milk is pro- 
duced by the lactic acid, but in the manufacture of cheese 
it is not usual to allow the milk to sour and curdle of its 
own accord. The process is hastened by the use of acids 
or of some substance such as rennet. A good way to 
prepare the rennet is to cut it in small pieces, put it in a 
jar with a handful or two of salt in one or two quarts of 
water and allow it to stand for two or three, days, after- 
wards pour on it another pint and allow it to stand two 
days more, then strain and bottle the whole for future use. 
In this state it may keep for several months. The milk 
should be raised to a temperature of 90**, or 95** F., and 
the rennet mixed with it. The (juanlily used varies from 
a tnblespoonful to half a pint for thirty or forty gallons of 
milk. The time for the complete fixing of the curd also 
varies from fifteen minutes to an hour or more. Great 
care should be taken in warming the milk, that it is not 
singed. In large dairies, a safe way is to have a pot with 
a double bottom after the manner of a glue pot, and have 
the space filled with water. In heating it is desirable not 
to raise the temperature too high, as great heat is apt to 
give an oiliness to the fatty matter of the milk. The 
' curd should be broken up as soon as it coagulates, as. the 
longer it stands after this the harder and tougher it be- 
comes. The quantity of the rennet should be regulated 
carefully, as too much makes the cord tough, and too lit- 
tle causes loss of time, and will permit a large portion of 
the butter to separate from the curd. In salting cheese, 
as in butter, the salt should be pure, and can be obtained 
for that purpose in the same manner. Cheese, like butter, 
depends in a great degree for its richness on the richness 
of, the milk, and is also susceptible to the various flavors 



^5 MILK, BUTTER AND CHEESE. 

which affect the milk. It^may be improved in quality by 
the addition of cream or butter to the dried and crumbled 
curd but it must be thoroughly worked in. The Rasckem 
cheese of Belgium is made by adding half an ounce of 
butter and the yolk of an egg to every pound of pressed 
cheese. New varieties of cheese are formed by mixing 
vegetable substances with the curd. A green decoction of 
two parts sage leaves, one of marigold, knd a little parsley, 
gives color and flavojr to the green cheese. 

The method of curing has a great effect upon the cheese; 
care in salting, warmth of the place where kept, tempera- 
ture and closeness of cheese-room in which they are stored, 
often turning, and cleaning from mould, and rubbing with 
butter. All these have due influence upon the cheese. 
Time and care must be bestowed in cheese making in or- 
der to produce rich cheese, and by varying the mode of 
curing, and especially the temperature at which they are 
kept, an almost endless variety may be produced. In 
conclusion we will recommend to all who may be interested 
in cheese making, a thorough study of Johnson's Agricul- 
tural Chemistry, to which we are largely indebted for 
what we have written on milk, butter and cheese. The 
result will richly repay one for the study. 

Cheese Making. 

Strain the night's milk into the tub; in the morning 
take off the cream, put it over a clear fire, stirring con- 
stantly, when hot, add part of the milk; heat it enough to 
make the milk which is still in the tub quite warm, but not 
hot; pour it back into the tub, and strain in the morning's 
milk. Put in a spoonful or two of rennet, stir it well, and 
let it stand half an hour; if the curd does not form well 
by that time, add more rennet. When the. curd is well 
formed, cut it in squares, making the knife go down to 
the bottom of the tub at every stroke; let it stand fifteen 
minutes for the whey to separate. Then break it up gent- 
ly, putting the spoon down through all parts; it must be 
done gently, or some of the milk will be lost in the whey. 



MILK, BUTTER AND CHEESE. 77 

This causes white whey; the greener the whey, the richer 
the cheese. Lay the strainer on top of tlie curd, and dip 
off the whey that presses up through, until you have taken 
about a third of it; put this over the fire to heat. When 
hot, pour it back upon the curd, and break it up small and 
as quickly as possible; then lay the strainer into the cheese 
basket, and pour the curd in to drain. When this is done, 
return it to the tub, salt it, put it again into the strainer, and 
then into the cheese hoop. Lay the strainer over smooth; 
lay a follower upon it, put it into the press, and press it tight; 
let it stay two days, and increase the pressure 'four or five 
times, turning the cheese over each time. Then turn the 
cheese out upon a shelf, in a dark closet, or room, secure 
from flies. Every day rub the side that has lain upon the 
shelf, and turn it over; rub it all over with butter often; 
these things must be done for six months. 

If cheese is rich, a strip of new cotton as wide as the 
thickness of the cheese, should be sewed tight around it, 
when first taken from the press, else it would sooif melt 
out of shape. Cheese rubbed now and then with butter 
sprinkled with red pepper, will be a good plan when flies 
are about. 

Cottage Cheese. 

Let the milk be turned by rennet, or by setting it in a 
warm place. It must not be heated^ as the oily ])arts will 
then pass off, and the richness is lost. When fully turned, 
put in a coarse linen bag, and hang it to drain several 
hours, till all the whey is out. Then mash it fine, salt it 
to the taste, and thin it with good cream, or add but little 
cream, and roll it into balls. A little butter improves it 



MEAT MAXIMS. 



Meats roast much better in a closely covered dish 
made for the purpose. 

If fresh meats become soiled before cooking trim the 
soil off. Do not wash it. 

If meat or fish are washed, they should be carefully 
dried with a napkin before cooking. 

To boil or roast fresh meat it should, at the first instant, 
be plunged in boiling water. 

Salt meats should be put to cook in cold water. 

Meats should not boil furiously, but simmer. 

Much good meat is spoiled by not being skimmed 
properly. 

Corned beef should be allowed to cool in the liquor in 
which it is cooked. 

Nothing improves a piece of meat so much as a sharp 
knife with which to cut it. 

There is as much in cutting a roast as in cooking it. 

Many people sharpen the table knives ; it makes the 
meat seem tenderer. 

Do not season food too highly; people differ in tastes. 

Pork and fish should cook slowly. 

If eggs are cooked too fast or too long, they become 
wheyey. 

To make browned gravies, brown the flour as you 
brown coffee. You can keep a little stock of it in store. 

If milk gravies are cooked too much or too fast they 
are apt to curdle. 

To heat over oyster soup, skim out the oysters, heat 
the liquor and turn over them. They are as good as 
•vhen fresh cooked 



MEAT MAXIMS. 79 

If you cannot open clams, pour boiling water over 
them and they will open themselves. 

Lard or grease may be cileansed by slicing raw potato 
into it, and boiling it. Fat in which fritters or cakes have 
been cooked, also sausage grease, may be cleansed in this 
way. 

To cleanse rancid butter boil it with^-fwice the amount 
of water and shake it well, and repeat till cleansed. 

Custards put in the cups and steamed for ten minutes 
are fully as nice as when baked. 

Tainted meat or fowl may be made sweet by boiling 
with a piece of charcoal. 

Scrambled eggs, overdone, are spoiled. 

Meat hash on toast is nice for breakfast. 

Dropped eggs on toast are nice for tea. 

Never put butter or meat on to cold iron to cook. 

Pork steak is nicer baked than fried. 

Keep milk, butter and eggs at a good distance from 
anything having a rank odor, as onions, lobster, fish, etc. 

Beef steak can be nicely broiled in a spider, by having 
the spider hot — not warm — ^>vhen it is put in. Do not 
salt till it is done. 



HYGIENIQ^EFFECT OF ANIMAL FOOD, 

Soup 

Soup has but little nutritious value compared with 
most kinds of food. The joints of meat, which are 
usually selected for soups contain a great amount of gel- 
atine which has very little nutrition, and is principally 
useful as waste matter to keep the bowels in action. To 
a person of sedentary habits or who is costively inclined, 
they are excellent for this purpose, but they form but 
.little blood, bone or muscle, and give but little heat to 
the body. 

Lean Meats, (Fresh.) 

Lean beef contains about twenty-five per cent, of ma- 
terial for muscle, but can never be eaten alone, not having 
the necessary carbon to produce heat. Either fat or 
starchy food is required to supply the lungs with fuel, 
fat being best in winter and starch m summer. The lean 
meat (muscle) of an animal which has led an active life 
js much harder and firmer and takes more time to digest 
than one that has only lived in a stall. Tender meats 
are more digestible than tough ones because they can be 
so separated by the teeth that gastric juice can*act upon 
them better* Lean beef, veal, mutton and pork do not 
vary greatly in their elements nor hygienic effects. They 
all tend to produce muscle, and are best adapted to the 
laboring man. Veal is more difficult to digest because 
it is slippery and difficult to chew properly 

Fat Meats 

contain a great amount of carbon which goes to produce 
heat Fats are much better food in cold climates and in 



HYGIENIC KFrECT OF ANIMAL FOOD 8l 

cold weather than in those which are warmer. A due 
amount of fatty matter is most necessary to produce heat, 
but an excess is very hurtful, especially to persons of 
weak digestion ; during the process of digestion it 
becomes rancid and partially decomposed and often pro- 
duces heat-burn and nausea. 

A surplus of carbonaceous food is, apt to induce 
inflammatory troubles, as gout and inflammatory* rhcuma* 
tism. When such food is used, it should always be 
accompanied by acid fruits and foods. The use o( too 
great an amount of carbon food is said to aggravate any 
scrofulous tendancy. 

Salt Meats 

do not digest so quickly nor so perfectly as fresh meats. 
For this reason they are preferred by laboring men, as 
they remain longer in the stomach, and are, as they say,* 
''better to lean upon.*' Scrofulous diseases, as erysipelas 
and salt rheum, are often produced and always aggra- 
vated by the too liberal use of salt and fat food. 

The five i)rincipal meats may be classed as follows, the 
first mentioned under each head standing flrst, and the 
last mentioned standing last : 

For /lea/ and /<// — pork, mutton, lamb, beef, veaL 

For wuscU — beef, veal, mutton, lamb, pork. 

For brain and nerve — beef, veal mutton, lamb, pork. 

Fish. 

The hygienic effect of fish depends much upon the 
kind of fish. The most active fish as trout, pickerel, 
shad, etc., contain more muscle and brain food than 
common fish, as white fish, cod and haddock. But all 
kinds of fish are alike in having a greater amount of 
brain 4iiaterial than almost any other kind of food. Prof. 
Agassiz thought so highly of fish for students and think- 
ers that for years he used hardly any other kind of 
animal food. But good medical authorities claim that 
this was really the cause of his death, as fish do not sup- 



Sa . nVGICNlC BFFIXT OF AKIMAL FOOD. 

ply sufficient of many of the elements which the system 
requires. Except the fatty fishes most of them require 
to be cooked in lard, fat pork or butter, and. to be eaten 
with potatoes or some farinaceous food to supply the 
requisite carbon. 

Shell-Fish. 

Lobsters, crabs, prawn, shrimp, etc., are hard to digest, 
and though good strong food, cannot be eaten with im- 
punity by persons of weak digestion, and are most 
miserably misapplied to evening entertainments in form 
of salads. 

, Oysters are unsatisfactory food for laboring men, but 
will do for the sedentary and for a supper to sleep on. 

Eggs 

contain all of the elements necessary to preserve health, 
and are healthful when cooked in any of the numberlesr 
ways common. 

Crusr 

has more than twice the amount of nourishment of any 
other known substance. It must therefore be used in 
small quantities and with such articles of food as fine 
floor or fruit which contains little nitrogen. It is hard 
of digestion, but there is much in being accustomed to it 



ELEMENTS OF VEGETABLE FOOD. 



When wheat flour is mixed up into a dough and washed 
on a linen cloth or sieve, under a stream of water, d milky 
substance passes through and gradually settles to the 
bottom of the vessel. This substance, when dried, will 
be found to be a fine, snow-white powder known as jAirM. 

Starch is found in (nearly) all kinds of grains, seeds, 
roots, bark, stems, pith and fruit of many plants. The 
various kinds of vegetable food which contain more or 
less starch as well as other principles will be considered 
in the following: 

TIu Potato, — Of all the vegetables which grow in the 
temperate climate, the potato is used the most generally 
by all classes of people. It appears daily on the table of 
the rich and poor. The chemical elements of the best 
varieties do not vary greatly; these do however, vary 
greatly with .the season, ripeness and soil. The solid 
part of the potato consists mainly of starch. It contains 
about 75 per cent, water, and also fat, sugar and salts in 
smaller proportion than starch. There is in the potato a 
bitter principle which is poisonous, and causes it to turn 
green if exposed to the light while growing. Cooking 
changes this principle, therefore the water in which pota- 
toes are boiled, should never be used in the preparation 
of other kinds of food. 

Par snips y Carrots and Turnips contain a greater propor- 
tion of water than potatoes, and are less valuable as arti- 
cles of food. Parsnips and carrots certain more sugar 
than potatoes, and all of them less starch. Turnips are 
of these three, the least visiluable as an article of fojOd. 



04 BLBMENTS OF VECETADLB FOOD. 

77ie Beet is especially valuable as an article of food on 
account of the sugar which it contains. The French 
prepare a large amount of sugar from it, and make it an 
article of export. 

Cabbage^ Parsley^ Mustard and all similar kinds of veg- 
etables are essentially alike in chemical composition, con- 
taining water in large proportion, woody fibre, gimi and 
sugar. They should be well cooked, indeed can hardly 
be too much cooked, and even then are found to require 
a longer time for digestion than animal food. 

Rhubarb contains an agreeable acid principle in so large 
proportion that it is used for a home-made wine. It also 
contains certain medicinal qualities which are found in 
the root. 

The Onion contains a large amount of nitrogenous mat- 
ter, and is for that reason very nutritive. It also contains 
. a strong smelling, sulphurized oil, which gives it its strong 
odor; this is also found in garlic; sugar and vegetable al- 
bumen is found in it. 

Indian Corn^ or Maiu contains more oil or fatty matter 
than any other vegetable, also albumen, starch and sugar, 
which adapts it.for sustaining life, and furnishing all the 
materials required for life, and is, perhaps, used more uni- 
versally for human and animal food than any other vege- 
table. , 

Oat Meal stands first in all grains in point of nutrmient, 
being first in nitrogenous element. It ranks next to In- 
dian corn in quantity of fat or oil which it contains. It 
is rich in starch, also contains sugar. 

Rice is remarkable for its starchy property, possessing 
more of it, than any other grain or vegetable, but is most 
deficient in oil. 

Buckwheat consists of starch in large proportion, and 
contains sugar and^ gluten. 

Seeds, — Of the seeds, such as peas and beans, they vary 
but little^ in chemicd <iomposition. Peas contain more 



ELEMENTS OF VEGETABLE FOOD. %$ 

Starch and vegetable caseine or ]ep;umine than beaifs. 
These take the first rank among nutritive foods, but being 
considered difficult of digestion are usually eaten with . 
other kinds of food. * 

Sa^o Starch is procured from the pith of several varie- 
ties of the palm tree. It comes in various forms. Sago 
njeal or flour is a whitish powder. 

Pearl Sago^ the kind in general use for domestic pur- 
poses, consists of pinkish or yellowish grains, about the 
the size of a pin's head. Common or brown sago con- 
sists of much larger grains, which are of a brownish white 
color, each grain being brownish on one side and whitish 
on the other. 

As all kinds of sago contain coloring matters, they are 
considered inferior to those varieties of starch, as arrow- 
root and tapioca which are perifectly white. 

Tapioca is a variety of starch which comes from South 
America, and is obtained from the root of a plant con- 
taining a poisonous milky juice. When it appears as a 
while powder, it is called Brazilian arrotv-root. 

The term tapioca is commonly applied to that form of 
it which appears in small irregular lumps, caused by its 
having been dried on hot plates, and then broken up into 
fragments.' 

Arratu-root, — A root growing in the West Indies con- 
taining a juice supposed to be capable of counteracting 
the effects of wounds inflicted by poisonous arrows. This 
root yielded a starch which took the name of Maranta 
arrow-root. But afterwards starches from other plants 
which had a resemblance to Maranta starch, took also the 
name of arrow-roots. Thus there is Tahiti arrow-root, 
Manihot arrow-root, from the plants which yield tapioca, 
and potato arrow-root, or British arrow-root, as it is some- 
times called. Maranta arrow-root, which is a very pure, 
white, starchy powder, is the most prized of all varieties, 
but is often adulterated with other and cheaper kinds. 

Corn Starch. — This is a preparation of the starch of 



86 BLXMSNTS or VSGBTABLB FOOD. 

Indian corn which has been separated as perfectly as i)09- 
sible from the other constituents of the grain. Chemical 
neans are used to efifect the separation. The grain is re- 
~ ported to yield from 30 to 35 pe/ cent, of pure starch 
which bears a general price about one-third greater than 
wheaten flour. 

Starch does not dissolve in water. A starch grain is 
composed of coats or layers like an onion. By boiling, 
the layers exfoliate or unfold, and the grains swell to 
twenty or thirty times their original size and form a thick 

A cold jelly of starch and water left to stand will grad- 
ually change, flrst into gum and then into sugar. This 
change will be slow and will take months before the whole 
is converted into sugar. If one or two per cent.. of sul- 
phuric acid is added to the water, and the starch is boiled 
for some time and then the acid by similar means is neu- 
tralized and removed, and the solution boiled down, it 
yields a rich syrup or a solid sugar. 

Potatoes treated in this way, it is said, will produce ten 
per cent, of their weight in sugar. Any substance which 
contains starch, as paper, raw cotton, flax, linen, and cot- 
ton rags, and even sawdust, may be changed into sugar 
by the same means. 

Starch has a constipating effect, because it is so com- 
pletely absolved, and leaves no residue to excite the intes- 
tines to act. The gastric juice contains both acid and 
pepsin, or ''ferment substance," these acting on starch 
tranform it into sugar, some of which enters into the blood, 
and it is burned away for the production of heat. 

Starchy food, more especially than any other, should be 
thoroughly masticated before being swallowed, as its di- 
gestion, depends almost entirely on its thorough intermix- 
ture with the saliva in the mouth. Those forms which are 
more solid, such as bread and potato, are better digested 
than when prepared in the form of slops, as sago, arrow- 
root, etc., because in the latter form it is swallowed with- 
out mixing with the saliva. 



BLEIIENT8 OF VEGSTADLE FOOD. 87 

Flour is principally composed of starch, gluten, sugar 
and gum. Of these, the first two constitute about 70 per 
cent. 

Gluten, — If dough is worked on a sieve under a stream 
of water wc have seen that the deposit in the vessel below 
will, when dried, contain the starch, while that substance 
wliich remains on the cloth will be found to be a gray, 
elastic, tough substance, almost resembling a piece of an« 
imal skin in appearance, presenting when dried, a glue^ 
like appearance; hence its nzx^^ygluten. < 

Good flour will absorb half its weight in water. The 
water combines with the gluten which becomes tou^h and 
elastic. The gluten acts upon the sugar, changing it into 
alcohol and carbonic acid gas. The tough nature of the 
gluten does not allow the gas to escape, and as it swells 
or expands, the dough will swell or *' rise " to a n^uch 
greater bulk. 

The best flour is that in which there is the most gluteiit 
and which is the toughest and most els^tic when wet. 

Whatever injury the flour may sustain is manifested ia 
a change in the gluten, reducing the quantity and dimin- 
ishing Its tenacity. 

Flour dealers and bakers determine the quality of flour 
by working a handful into paste with water, when its valu^ 
is Judged by the tenacity of the dough, the length to 
which It may be drawn into a thread, or the extent it may 
be spread out into a sheet 

Afaccaroni and VermiceUi are pastes formed from wheat 
flour and made into various shapes by pressing the paste 
through holes in metallic plates. The flours, therefore, 
which are best for these preparations are those which 
make the toughest paste and are richest in gluten. The 
best maccaroni should retain its form, and only swell after 
long boiling, without running into a mass or falling to 
pieces. 



VEGETABLES. 

To Boil Potatoes. 

The best potatoes are good boiled without paring, but 
even these are best pared; and poor potatoes are unfit to 
eat, boiled with the skins on. New potatoes are made 
watery by being laid in water, but late in the winter, and 
in the spring, they should be pared and laid in cold water 
ah hour or two before they are cooked. l*ut them into 
boiling water, with salt in it, an^ allow thirty or forty 
minutes for boiling, according to the size. When they 
are done through, pour off the water, and take the kettle 
to the door, or window, and shake them. Doing this in 
the open air makes them mealy; return them to the fire a 
minute or two, and then serve. Potatoes require nearly 
an hour to bake in a cooking stove or range. 

Potato Balls. 

Mash boiled potatoes fme, stir into them the yolk of an 
egg, and make them into balls; then dip them into a beat- 
en egg, roll them in cracker crumbs, and brown them in 
a quick oven; or fry them in a small quantity of nice 
drippings, and, in that case, flatten them so they can be 
* easily turned, and browned on both sides. 

Mashed Potatoes. 

Boil them according to the directions in the preceding 
recipe, allowing twenty minutes more time before dinner, 
than if they were to be put on the table whole. When 
they are dried, set off the kettle and mash them in it with 
a wooden pestle. Have ready a gill or two of hot milk 
or cream; if you use milk, put a small piece of butter in- 
to it. Sprinkle salt into the potato and mash it until it is 



VEGETABLES. 89 

perfectly fine; then pour in the hot milk and mix it thor- 
oughly. The more it is worked with the pestle, the whiter 
it becomes. Put it into the dish for the table, smooth the 
top into proper shape, and set it into the stbve to brown. 
To prepare it in the nicest manner, beat the yolk of an 
egg and spread over the top, before putting it into the oven. 
If you do not care to take all this trouble, it is very good 
without being browned. 

Fried Potatoes. 

Pare, wash and slice the raw potatoes very thin; thb 
can be done with a sharp knife, but an instrument for the 
purpose is much better. When they are sliced, lay tliem 
m ice cold water for half an hour, then dry them by , 
spreading between two cloths. Have the lard boiling hot 
in the frying-pan, and fry the potatoes to a light brown. 
Take them from the frying-pan as soon as they are brown 
and drain in a colander for a moment. Sprinkle with 
salty and lay on a napkin in a deep dish. 

Old Potatoes. 

AVhcn potatoes are poor, as they often arc in the spring, 
pare, soak, and boil them as directed in the first recipe, 
then take two together in a coarse cloth, squeeze and 
wring them. 

Potato Cakes. 

Mould into flat cakes, cold mashed potatoes, salt them, 
and fry in hot lard or drippings until a light brown. 

Potatoes Heated in Milk. 

To make a very good dish for breakfast, cut cold pota- 
toes quite small, and put them into a sauce-pan or spider, 
with milk enough to almost, but not entirely cover them. 
When the milk becomes hot, stir and mash the potatoes 
with a large spoon until there are no lumps. Add salt, 
and a small bit of butter, stir it often, until it is as dry as 
you wish to have it. It is a nicer dish, when prepared 

13 



90 VSGBTADLBS. 

with 80 much milk that a jgood deal of stirring is neces- 
sary to make it dry, than if done in but a small quantity. 

Sweet Potatoes. 

They are best baked; are very nice boiled till tender, 
and then pared and laid into the oven to brown. They 
require a third longer time to cook than the common po- 
tato. Cold sweet potatoes are excellent sliced and browned 
on the griddle. When one side is done, sprinkle salt over 
before turning. 

Boiled Cabbage* 

Pick off the outer green leaves, cut in quarters; ex- 
amine carefully for the insects which may get between the 
leaves. Lay them for an hour in cold water; then put 
them in a pot of boiling water and cook twenty minutes, 
change the water, putting in more boiling water and cook 
until tender. It takes nearly an hour to cook a good 
sized cabbage, when young; and a longer time for an old- 
er one. When done, drain well, and serve. 

Ladies Cabbage. 

Boil the cabbage, as directed in boiled cabbage. When 
tender, drain and set aside until cold. Chop fme, and 
then add and stir well together, two well-beaten eggs, one 
tablespoonful of butter, four tablespoonfuls of cream, a 
little salt and pepper. Put in the oven and bake until 
brown. 

Cabbage. (Boiled in Milk.) 

Cut the cabbage as fine as it can be sliced, boil it in 
milk thirty minutes; then ad4 butte^, pepper and salt* 
and thicken with a little flour. 

Sauer Kraut. 

Line a barrel, keg, or jar with cabbage leaves, on the 
bottom and sides. Chop the cabbage fme, and put in a 
layer three inches deep; press this down well, and sprinkle 



VXGETABLSS. 91 

with four tablespoonfuls of salt. Pack in this manner 
four or five layers, press down hard with a board made to 
fit loosely the inside of the vessel used for the purpose. 
Place heavy weights on the board or pound it down with, 
a wooden beetle, until it is a compact mass, then remove 
the board, and put in another layer, repeating the process 
of pressing until the vessel is full. Cover with leaves and 
replace the board and weights to keep it down. Let it 
stand to ferment; in three weeks remove the scum, and if 
necessary cover with water. This should be kept in a cool 
dry cellar. To be eaten raw or boiled. 

Boiled Cauliflower. 

Pick the leaves and cut of! the stalk close to the bot- 
tom of the bunches of flowers. It should be cut in quar- 
ters if very large. Tie it in a coarse lace or tarlatan bag 
to prevent it breaking, and put it into boiling water, salted, 
and cook until tender. When done, turn it in a hot dish 
and pour over it a large cupful of drawn butter. Do not 
let it stay in the water after it is done as it will darken. 
Serve hot 

Broccoli and Eggs. 

Boil two or three heads of broccoli until tender. Put 
buttered toast in the bottom of a deep dish and lay on 
the toast the heads of broccoli arranged with the stems 
downward, and pQur over the whole two cupfuls of drawn 
butter, into which four eggs have been beaten while hot. 
Serve hot 

Mashed Turnips. 

Peel the turnips and put them on to cook in cold water, 
slightly salted. Boil until tender; drain and mash with a 
wooden spoon or potato masher. Stir in a spoonful of 
butter, and season with salt and pepper. 

Scalloped Tomatoes. 

Peel and cut in quite thin slices; make a forcemeat of 
bread crumbs, butter, salt, pepper and a little sugar. Put 



9a VEGETABLES. 

m a pudding-dish the sliced tomatoes and forcemeat in 
alternate layers. Spread the forcemeat quite thick upon 
each layer; when the dish is nearly full put on a layer of 
tomatoes and a piece of butter on each slice. Sprinkle in 
a little sugar and pepper. Strew the whole with dry 
bread crumbs, cover and bake a half hour, then remove 
the cover and brown. 

Stewed Tomatoes. 

Loosen the skins by pouring scalding water upon ihem; 
peel and cut them up, extracting the hard part of the stem- 
end, and removing all unripe portions. Stew in a tin or 
porcelain sauce-pan, half an hour, when add salt and 
pepper to taste, a teaspoonful of white sugar, and a table- 
spoonful of butter. Stew gently fifteen minutes longer, 
and serve. Some cooks thicken the tomatoes with a little 
grated bread. 

Raw Tomatoes. 

Pare with a sharp knife, as it impairs the flavor to re- 
move the skins with hot water. Slice and lay in a dish. 
Season with vinegar, pepper and salt. Pieces of ice laid 
on the slices improve them very much. 

Raw Cucumbers. 

Pare and lay in ice-water for a half hour or more, then 
wipe and slice thin. Season with salt, pepper and vine* 
gar. They are improved by laying bits of ice in with the 
slices. Some people who cannot eat them in vinegar find 
them a very nice relish eaten with salt. Thin slices of 
onion laid m the dish with the cucumbers, are an improve- 
ment. Cucumbers should be kept in a cool place; they 
are better to be eaten the same day they arc gathered. 

Fried Cucumbers, 

Pare and lay in ice-water half an hour. Cut len^h- 
wise into slices nearly half an inch thick, and lay in ice- 
water ten minutes longer. Wipe each piece dry with a 



VEGETABLES. 93 

soft cloth, sprinkle with pepper and salt, and dredge with 
flour. Fry to a delicate brown, in nice lard or butter. 

Green Peas. 

If peas are young and fresh ^and none others are good) 
they will boil in half an hour or thirty-five minutes. They 
should be put into cold water, without salt. When ten- 
der, drain them through a colander, and dish, adding a 
little butter and salt. When the peas are old, put a little 
soda in the water in which they are boiled. 

Asparagus. No. i. 

Wash it, trim off the white ends, and tie it up in bunches 
with a twine or a strip of old cotton. Throw them into 
boiling water with salt in it. Boil twentyrfive minutes or 
half an hour. Have ready two or three slices of toasted 
bread, dip them in the water and lay them in the dish. 
Spread them with butter and lay the bunches of asparagus 
upon the toast. Cut the strings with scissors and draw 
them out without breaking the stalks; lay tliin shavings of 
butter over the asparagus, and send it to the table. 

Asparagus. No. 2. 

Cut the asparagus in pieces a half-inch long, boil in wa« 
ter with a little salt, and add rich, sweet cream to thicken. 

Asparagus. No. 3. 

. Take the green heads of young asparagus, and cut into 
pieces no larger than peas; put them in boiling water with 
a little salt, and boil ten or twelve minutes. Drain a min- 
ute or two on a napkin; then put into a stew-pan two ta- 
blespoonfuls of butter, a sprig of mint, a half cup of 
cream, a teaspoonful of salt, and as much sugar; stew for 
ten minutes; then stir in the beaten yolks of two eggs; 
and in three minutes more, turn the asparagus out on a 
dish, and serve in the ^uce with sippets of fried bread. 



94 vsgetablis. 

Boiled Onions. 

Boil them one hour in salted water, or half an hoiir in 
dear water, then drain the water off, cover them with 
milk, and boil until tender. When dished, put a little 
butter and a very little p^per on them. 

Fried Onions. 

Cut the' onions in thin slices; turn over them a quart of 
boiling water, let them stand half an hour; drain and 
wipe them dry with a cloth; dredge in a little flour, pep- 
per and salt, and have ready some hot butter or nice 
drippings. Fry them a nice brown. 

Stewed Green Corn. 

Cut the com^from the cob, and stew fifteen minutes in 
boiling water; then turn off most of the water and cover 
with milk, and stew until tender. When nearly done, rub 
smooth a very little flour into butter and put in. Season 
with salt and pepper. Cold boiled com can be used in 
the same way, using the milk only; stew for a few min- 
utes. 

Boiled Green Corn. 

Throw the ears, when husked, into a kettle of boiling 
water, slightly salted, and boil thirty minutes. Serve in a 
napkin. Or, you can cut from the cob while hot, and sea- 
son with butter, pepper and salt 

Hulled Corn. 

The white, yellow, or sweet com may be used. Soak 
the com over night in warm water, and in the moming 
put it in an iron kettle with water enough to cover it. To 
each quart of com, put in a rounding tablespoonful of 
soda or saleratus,' ana boil until the hulls come off readilv; 
then wash in several clelr waters, and after it is thorough- 
ly washed, put it on to boil again in clear water. Boil 
until tender, and then salt it, and let '\ boil a little longer. 
Turn into a sieve anid drain thoroughly. 



vegetables. 95 

Succotash, 

Ten or twelve ears of sweet green com, boiled on the 
ear, in a kettle containing a small piece of fresh beef; also 
one quart, or less, of Lima, oi' common garden beans. 
When done cut the corn from the ear, mix with the beans 
and a small quantity of the liquid from the kettle, one 
cup of cream or rich milk, with plenty of butter, salt and 
pepper. Place on the stove, allowing it to come to a boil; 
then serve. 

Corn Patties. 

Take a coarse grater, and grate green com. To every 
quart add three eggs, and one pint of milk; thicken with 
flour to a stiff batter, and fry in lard mixed with butter 
and salt. 

Spinage. 

Put it into a net, or a bag of coarse muslin, kept for the 
purpose, and boil it in plenty of water salted, for half 
an hour. All kinds of greens should be boiled in plenty 
of water, else they will be bitter. Drain your spinage 
thoroughly, lay it ma dish, put upon the toj^ hard boiled 
eggs, sliced, and pour melted butter over it. Another 
way, is to press it between two plates, then put it into a 
sauce-pan with a small bit of butter, salt, and a little creani, 
and boil it up. ' ^ ' ■ 

Boiled CAkROTs. 

Wash and scrape well; if large, cut in a few pieces and 

. lay in cold water. Put in boiling water, salted, and cook 

until tender. Large carrots will require an hour and a 

half to cook. Young carrots should not bescraped^ only 

washed. Season with butter and serve hot. 

Salsify, or Oyster Plant. (Stewed.) 

Scrape the roots and drop into cold water as soon as 
cleaned. Cut in pieces an inch long, and put into boiling 
water enough to cover them. Stew until tender; turn off 



90 VSGETADLSS. 

nearly all the water and put in a cupful of cold milk 
cook ten minutes after this begins to boil. Rub a little 
flour into considerable butter and put it in. Season with 
salt and pepper. Boil up once more and serve hot. 

Beets. 

They must not be scraped or cut, as they would then 
lose their color and sweetness. Salt the water, and boil 
them for an hour in summer, and in the winter for three 
hours. Cold beets make a nice pickle, if cut in slices, and 
put into vinegar. 

Boiled Parsnips. 

Scrape if young, before cooking; if old, pare, and split' 
if they are large. Put them into boiling water and cook 
from thirty to forty-five minutes. If they are full grown 
they will require an hour or more to cook tender. Drain 
them, slice lengthwise and butter when ready for the table. 

Fried Parsnips. 

Boil until tender, scrape o(T the skin, and cut in thick 
lengthwise pieces. Dredge with flour, and fry in hot lard, 
turning when one side is browned. Drain off all the fat; 
pepper them and serve hot. 

Parsnip Stew. 

Take as many slices of salt pork as you have people 
to dine. To six slices, put six good sized sliced parsnips, 
and eight or nine potatoes peeled and sliced. ],et the 
pork boil fifteen or twenty mmutes, then add parsnips and 
potatoes, and boil till tender. Add slices of bread, and 
salt if needed. 

String or "Snap" Beans. 

Break off the tops and bottoms and " string *• carefully. 
Then pare both edges with a sharp knife, to be certam 
that no remnant of the tough fibre remains. Cut the 
beans in pieces an inch long, and lay in cold water with 



VEGETABLES. 97 

a little salt for fifteen or twenty minutes. Drain them 
and put into a sauce-pan of boiling water. Boil quickly 
twenty minutes if well grown, less if small, or until tender 
Drain in a colander until the water ceases to drip from 
them. Dish with a great spoonful of butter stirred in. 

Shelled Deans, or Lima. 

Shell, and let them lie awhile in cold water. Put them 
in boiling water, salted, and cook until tender. Large 
ones will require nearly an hour to cook; a half hour or 
forty minutes is long enough for small ones. Drain them 
and add butter and pepper. 

Baked Squash. 

Cut in pieces, scrape well, and bake from one to one and 
a half hours, according to the thickness of the squash; to be 
eaten with salt and butter as sweet potatoes. 

Summer Squash. 

If the rind is tender, boil it whole, in a little bag kept 
for the purj)ose. Put it in boiling water, and cook three- 
quarters of an hour. Take the bag into a pan and press 
it with the edge of a plate or with a ladle, until the water 
is out; then turn the squash out into a dish, add salt and 
butter, and smooth over the top. 

Winter Squash. 

Cut it up and take out the inside. Pare the pieces and 
stew in as little water as possible. If you have a tin with 
holes in it, which will fit the kettle and keep the squash 
from touching the water, it is the nicest way to steam it 
Be careful it does not burn. It will cook in an hour. 
Mash it in a dish, or if watery, squeeze it^in a coarse cloth 
like summer squash. Stir in butter and salt, and if yoo 
like add pepper. ' 

>3 



98 vegetables; 

Celery. 

Cutoff the roots, and take off the greenest, toughest 
stalks. Wash and scrape the blanched stalks which grow 
nearest the heart. Lay in cold water until it is sent to the 
table. Serve in a celery glass without seasoning. Each 
person will dip in salt for himself. 

Radishes. 

A little while before using, lay them upon ice, or put 
them in cold water. To prepare them for the table,' cut 
off the leaves; then scrape them, and put them in a 
tumbler with ice-water. Serve with salt, or pepper and 
vinegar. 

Fried Egg Plant. 

Slice the egg plant half an inch thick; pare each piece 
carefully, and lay in salt and water, putting a plate upon 
the topmost to keep it under the brine, and let them lie 
for an hour or more. Wipe each slice; dip in beaten egg, . 
then in cracker crumbs, and fry in hot lard until well done 
and nicely browned. 

Mushrooms. 

There is great difference of opinion in regard to the 
varieties of mushroom which can be safely eaten, and un- 
less one has learned to distinguish between the edible kind 
and the poisonous, it is not safe to have any thing to do 
with them. If they have an offensive smell, a bitter as- 
tringent taste, or even an unpleasant flavor, they are unfit 
for food. Color and texture can not with absolute certainty 
be relied on. The pale or sulphur yellow, bright or blood 
red and greenish are generally poisonous. The safe kinds 
have mostly a compact brittle texture; the flesh is white; 
they grow more readily in open places, than in damp or 
shady spots. The edible kinds are most plenty in August 
and September. The heads of these are round when they 
spring up, and as they §row, the lower parts unfold, ana 
show a lining fringed with salmon color, the stalks and 



VtlCKtA^LES. 09 

top are a dirty white. The skin cah be mdre easily peeled 
from the edges^ than from the poisonous kinds. If an 
onion is boiled m the pot with the mushrooms and turns 
bliick, they are poisonous, or ijf in stirring them with a sil- 
ver spoon, it blackens, they should not be eaten. 

Mushrooms. {Stewed.) 

Select button mushrooms. Cut off the stalks and wipe 
clean with a wet flannel cloth. Put them in a sauce-pan, 
cover with cold water and stew gently fifteen minutes. 
Rub a little flour smooth in a spoonful of butter and^ add 
it* with a little salt. Whip up an egg in three or four ta-. 
blespoonfuls of cream, and stir in without letting it boil, 
and serve. 

Mushrooms. {Broiiedi) 

You must' be careful to get a wholesonde' one; peeV it 
carefully, grease the bars of a gridiron, lay your mush- 
room on with the stalk uppermost. ^ Do not turn it; in 
seven minutes it will be full of delicious ketchup which 
you must be careful not to spill in taking off. 

Greens. 

Cabbage plants, turnip or mustard tops, the roots and 
tops of young beets, cowslips, dandelions, and various 
other things, make a good dish in the spring. When 
boiled enough, they will sink to the bottom of the kettle. 
Some require an hour, and others less time. Turnip- 
tops will boil enough in twenty minutes. Put salt in the 
water, unless you boil pork with them. 

Baked Maccaroni. 

Break half a pound of pipe maccaroni in pieces an 
inch long, and put into a sauce-pan of boiling water 
slightly salted. Stew gently twenty minutes. It should 
be soft but not broken or split. Drain well and put a 
layer in the bottom of a buttered pie or pudding-dish; 
upon this grate some mild, rich cheese, and scatter over 



/ • 

100 VXCXTABLES. 

it some bits of butter. ^ Spread upon the cheese more 
maccaroni, and fill the dish in this order, having macca- 
roni at the top, buttered well, without the cheese. Add 
a few spoonfuls of cream or milk, and a very little salt 
Bake covered, half an hour, then brown nicely, and serve 
in the bake-dish. 

Maccaroni with Cheese. 

Jf pound of maccaroni.. 

2 ounces of cheese (near the rind.) 

I pint of milk. 

Wash and break the pipe maccaroni in pieces an inch 
' long, and let it boil gently in water slightly salted, half an 
hour. Strain it off and put in the milk, let it simmer one 
hour, and then spread in layers in a deep dish. Upon 
each layer spread the grated cheese and scatter in bits of 
butter, fill the dish in this manner. Brown it in the oven. 



ADDITIONAL RECIPES lOX 

To Can Green Corn. 

.Fill the can with uncooked corn (freshly gathered) 
cut from the cob» and seal them hermetically, Sur* 
round them with straw to prevent their striking 
against each other, and put them into a broiler over 
the fire, with enough cold water to cover them. Heat 
the water gradually, and after boiling an hour and a 
half, puncture the tops of the cans to let the gases 
escape. Seal them immediately, while they are still 
hot, and continue to boil them two and a half hours 
longer, when they are ready to set away for use. 
Nothing need be put 'n the can except the corn, as 
the milk and juices ot the coru are ^all the liquid 
needed. • 



VEGETABLE ACIDS. 



Tlie sourness of fruits and succulent vegetables is due 
to various acids produced in the plants, and which they 
contain usually in quite small quantities. They exist in 
two states: ist, as pure acids, or free, when they arc 
strongest, and 2d, combined with bases, as potash, lime, 
etc., by Which they are partly neutralized, and thus ren- 
dered less pungent to the taste. Their nutritive value is 
very low. 

Acid of Apples. Malic Acid was first obtained from the 
juice of the apple, but it is also found in numerous small 
fruits. It exists very abundantly in green apples, hence 
their acidity which diminishes as they ripen. No use is 
made of this acid in a separate state. 

Acid of Lemons, Citric Acid is obtained chiefly from 
the lemon (citron). Citric acid is prepared by saturating 
the lemon juice with lime and then the citrate of lime, so 
formed, mixed with several times its weight of warm water 
is decomposed with sulphuric acid. The clear liquid is 
then drawn off and evaporated until the crystals of citric 
acid are deposited as the solution cools. Artificial lemon 
juice is produced by redissolving the crystals in water and 
flavoring with essence of lemon. 

Acid of Grapes. Tartaric Acid. This acid in the free 
. state exists in the grape and is found in some other fruits. 
When the expressed juice of the grape is fermented as in 
the manufacture of wine, the tartaric acid in combination 
with potash, separates from the liquor, and deposits itself 
as a crust upon the interior of the casks, and in this con- 
dition b known in commerce as crude tartar. The pure 



VKQRTARLK ACIDS. lOJ 

acid obtained from this source is a white crystallized solid, 
soluble in water and of an a«;reeablc acid taste. Tartaric 
acid is chiefly employed in dyeing. 

Oxalic Acid exists in sorrel and also in the garden rhu- 
bard or pie plant combined with and partially neutralized 
by potash or lime. It is a propipt and mortal poison 
when pure, and fatal results frequently occur from mistak- 
ing its crystals for those of Epsom salts, which they much 
resemble. It possesses an intensely sour taste which Epsom 
salts do not. The proper antidote for it is the adminstra* 
tion of chalk or magnesia dissolved in water. This acid 
is extensively used in printing calico, and by straw work- 
ers to cleanse their wares. 

Vegetable Jelly^ or Pectic Acid is obtained from the juice 
of apples, pears, quinces, currants, raspberries and many 
other fruits; also from turnips, carrots, beets and other 
roots. It is commonly prepared by mixing sugar with the 
juice and allowing it to stand for some time in the sun, by 
which a portion of the water is evaporated; or it may be 
boiled for a short time. When long boiled it loses ihe 
property of gelatinizing by cooling, and becomes a muci* 
laginous ot gummy nature. Isinglass is often used to pro- 
mote the thickening of vegetable jellies. Sugar lia.i a 
similar effect. 

Acetic Acid^ or Vinegar. This acid is in the most gen- 
eral use for culinary purposes and is obtained by fermen- 
tation. Good strong vinegar contains about 4 per cent, 
of the pure acid. Vinegar may easily be made at any 
time by adding yeast to water sweetened with sugar or 
molasses or any sweet vegetable juice and letting the mix- 
ture stand for a length of time to air in a warm place. 
Apple and grape juice allowed to stand will undergo a 
•change which will convert them into vinegar, and arc 
highly prized for all purposes of cookery. 



FLAVORED VINEGARS. 

Celery Vinegar. 

Put into a muslin bag four ounces of celery seed, put 
the bag in a wide-mouthed bottle, holding three or four 
quarts, fill with the white wine vinegar, and cork light; set 
the bottle in cold water, heat it to boiling heat, take it 
from the bath, cork tightly, and set it in a cool place; this 
will be found a good substitute for celery, in all salads 
where this flavor is required. 

Peach Vinegar. 

Blanch, by putting them in boiling water, one pint of 
peach pits; pour over them cold vinegar, as strong as can 
be obtained, and cork tightly. 

. Oyster Vinegar. 

Boil oysters in strong vinegar, until the vinegar is high- 
ly flavored; add clove, mace, and pepper, to suit the taste, 
then strain and bottle. 

Horse Radish Vinegar. 

6 tablespoonfuls grated horse radish. 
I tablespoonful white sugar. 
I quart vinegar. 

Scald the vmegar; pour boiling hot over the horse 
radish. Steep a week, strain and bottle. 



PICKLES. 



Use none but the best cider vinegar; especially avoid 
the sharp, colorless liquid sold under that name. If you 
boil pickles in bell metal, do not let them stand in it one 
moment when it is off the fire; and see that it is perfectly 
clean and newly scoured before the vinegar is put in. 
Keep pickles in glass or hard stoneware; they should 
never be kept in glazed ware; look them over every month; 
remove the soft ones, and if there are several of these, 
drain off and scald the vinegar, adding a cup of sugar for 
each gallon, and pour hot over the pickles. If they are 
keeping well throw in a liberal handful of sugar for every 
gallon, and tie them up again. This tends to preserve 
them, and mellows the sharpness of the vinegar. This 
does not apply to sufeet pickle. Pickles, well made, are 
better when a year old than at the end of six months. 

Keep your pickles well covered with vinegar. If you 
use ground spices, tie them up in thin muslin bags. 

Cucumber or Gherkin Pickles. 

Select the small, young and slender cucumber^, and 
leave about half an inch of the stem, as this makes them 
keep better. Piit them in a strong brine as they are ^ath* 
ered; be sure to keep them under the brine by placing a 
plate or board on the top of the vessel. When you wish 
to green and prepare a portion of them, cover the bottom 
and sides of the kettle with vine or cabbage leaves, and 
lay in the pickles, cover with a layer of leaves and pour 
over cold water to cover. Set the kettle over a moderate 
fire and bring to a scalding heat; keep at that temperature 
until perfectly green, which they should be in the course 
14 



I06 PICKLES. - 

of ten or twelve hours. If they do not become green in 
that time, repeat the process. When well greeted, re- 
move and drain; put them in a stone jar and .pour over 
them enough best cider vinegar boiling hot, to cover them. 

If you wish to make spiced cider pickles, allow to every 
gallon of vinegar, 

I cup of sugar. 

3 dozen whole black peppers; same of cloves. 

.1 ^ dozen allspice. 

ii dozen blades of mace. 

Put these in the vinegar and heat boiling hot and pour 
over. Turn off the vinegar, scald and pour on again in 
two days. Repeat the process three or four times. Keep 
in a dry, cool place closely covered. 

Salt Cucumber Pickles. 

Put them fresh, unwashed, into a vessel, and cover with 
boiling water; when cold, pour off and cover again with 
hot water. When cold, put them into a cask of brine 
sufficiently strong ifor salt to settle on the bottom. Stir 
thoroughly every time fresh ones are added, and see that 
salt remains lon the bottom. When the cask is full, cover 
the pickles with a cloth and a slight weight. Remove the 
cloth ioccasionally, and rinse it. The pickles keep well, 
are easily soaked, plump and fresh. 

Pickled Peppers. 

(Cut the stems out in a circle with a sharp penknife, and 
preserve them; fill each pepper with a mixture of finely 
chopped cabbage, horse radish, mustard seed, and salt. 
Before filling, wash the peppers in cold water; then fill, 
replace the piece cut out, tie with coarse thread, pack in 
stone jars, and fill up with cold, sharp vinegar. They 
will be ready for use in two weeks. 

Cauliflower. 

Cut a large cauliflower in several pieces; wash and ex- 
•mine carefully for any insects which may be in it. Put 



PICKLES. 107 

it into cold water with two spoonfuls of salt. Heat the 
water gradually, until it comes to a boil. Boil for ten 
minutes, then drain until perfectly dry and put them in a 
glass jar. Prepare a flavored vinegar by boiling in one 
quart of vinegar, one teaspoonful cloves, and two of mus- 
tard for a few minutes. Pour the vinegar over the cauli- 
flower when cold, this should cover the cauliflower. 

Red Cabbage. 

In proportion to two heads red cabbage, put twelve 
peppers, each chopped fine. To a gallon of the mixture, 
add, 

I tablespoonful cloves. 

1 tablespoonful ground cinnamon. 

2 tablespoonfuls salt. 

% cup fine black mustard-seed. ^ 

A few pepper corns. 

Mix well, lay it in a stone jar, and pour over enough 
boiling vinegar to cover. Keep in a cool place. 

Pickled Butternuts, or Walnuts. 

■ » 

Gather them when they are soft enough to be pierced 
with a pin. Place them m a very strong brine of salt and 
water, and let them -soak six days, changing this twice 
during the time. Drain them dry, and pierce each nut by 
running a large needle through it. Lay in cold water for 
six hours. Prepare the vinegar by allowing to each gallon, 

1 cup of sugar. 

4 dozen whole cloves. 

3 dozen black pepper corns. 

2 do%cn whole allspice. 

1 dozen blades of mace. 

Boil together five minutes. Place the nuts in jars, and 
pour the flavored vinegar over scalding hot. Repeat the 
scalding of the vinegar twice during the week. Tie up 
closely and they will be ready to use in a month or six 
weeks. 



io8 picKUia. 

Bean Pickles. 

Procure young beans from the late crops; wash a^d 
boil in slightly salted water until tender; drain them 
through a sieve or colander, then dry with a cloth. Pour 
boiling vinegar, spiced to taste, over them, repeat this two 
or three days, or until they look green. 

Mangoes. 

Select small musk-melons (the common kind are much 
better for this purpose than cantelopes), cut an oval piece 
out of one side. You must have a sharp knife, and be 
careful to make a smooth incision. Take out the seeds 
with a teaspoon. Fill the melons with a stuffing made of 
cloves, mustard seed, pepper corns, scrapings of. horse 
radish, and chopped onion if you like it. Sew on the 
piece with^ needle and coarse thread, or bind a strip of 
old cotton around each one and sew it. Lay them in a 
jar, and pour boiling vinegar on them with a little salt in 
It. Do it two or three times, then lay them in fresh vine- 
gar and cover close. 

« Nasturtiums. 

Gather the seeds while green, let them lie a few days, 
then throw them into vinegar. They need no spice ex- 
cept a little salt, being themselves sufficiently spicy. Boil 
the vinegar and pour on them. They are considered by 
many persons better than capers, and are much like them. 
They should be kept six months, covered close, before 
they are used. 

Green Tomato Pickles. 

I peck green tomatoes. 
8 onions. 

4 green peppers. i 

• I cup salt. 
1 cup sugar. 
1 tablespoonful of pepper. 



PICKLES. 109 

I tablespoonful whole cloves. 

X tablespoonful mustard. * 

X tablespoonful cinnamon. 

I tablespoonful mace. 

Slice the tomatoes, peppers and onions, put in layers , 
and sprinkle over them the salt, and let them remain over 
night. In the morning press dry through a sieve. Put 
in the spice (in a thin muslin bag) and cover with vinegar. 
Stew slowly about an hour, or until the tomatoes are as 
soft as you desire. The onions can be omitted if you 
wish. 

Cucumber Chow-Chow. 

To six large cucumbers, take six onions, peel and chop 
very fine, separately; add salt enough to season, and let 
them stand until the water rises on them; squeeze them 
dry, mix together; add a little i)epper, and vinegar enough 
to cover. Lottie and seal up air tight. 

Chow-Chow. 

I peck green tomatoes. 

1 large cup salt 
6 green peppers. 
6 onions. 

6 or 8 large stalks of celery. 
X pound sugar. 

2 tablespoonfuls ground mustard. 

4 tablespoonfuls fine black mustard*8eed. 

I tablespoonful pepper corns. 

I tablespoonful whole cloves. 

I tablespoonful ground cinnamon. 

I tablespoonful mace. 

J^ tablespoonful ground pepper. 

Chop the tomatges, and sprinkle over them the salt; let 
this ^tand twelve hours, then drain off the water, and mix 
with it the onions, pepper and celery, all chopped fine. 
Mix the spices with the suga,r. Put a layer of the 
chopped mixture in a preserving kettle, and scatter over 



VXO FICKLSa. 

it some of the sugar' and' spice; and so^ on alternately. 
Then cover with vinegar and let it dimmer two 'hours. 

English Chow-Chow. 

I' peck cucumbers. 

1 peck onions. 

y^ peck string beans. 

3 heads cauliflower. 

3 bunches celery. 

J^ dozen* sweet peppers. 

Soak the whole in strong salt and water over night; in 
the morning drain off the brine: and scald them all in 
weak salt and water, but before scalding cut them into 
shape so that they will go easily into glass jars. Add 

^ pound mustard. 

2 packages curry-powder. 
6 quarts good' vmegan 

Put the mustard and curry-powder into the vinegar, 
and let it come to a boil; put the pickles into the cans, 
and pour the boiling liquid over them while hot Do not 
cover while scalding. 



SWEET PICKLES. 

Sweet Tomato Pickle. 

8 pounds ripe tomatoes, peeled and sliced. 

4 pounds sugar. 

I ounce cinnamon and mace mixed. 

1 14 ounces cloves. 

I j4 quarts vinegar. 

Mix all together and stew an hour. 

Cucumber Sweet Pickle. 

Take ripe cucumbers, pare and seed; cut in strips; soak 
them in vmegar twenty-four hours. Drain and boil until 
clear, in a syrup o£ equal parts vinegar and sugar,, with 
spices to your taste. 

Cantelope Pickle. 

Take fine ripe cantelopes, wash, pare and cut into small 
pieces, taking out the seeds; cover them with^ vinegar for 
twenty-four hours; throw away one quart' of the vinegar 
to each quart remaining; Allow three pounds sugar to a 
dozen cantelopes, three ounces stick cinnamon, two 
ounces cloves, two ounces allspice (spices wholes boil 
them with the vinegar, when well skimmed put in the 
fruit, boil fifteen minutes, then take out, boil and skim the 
syrup, and pour boiling hot over the fruit 

Damsons. . ♦ 

5, pounds sugar, 
i^pint vinegan 
'lipeck damsons, 
a.tablespoonfuls ground dhnamonj 



1X3 8WEXT PICKUS. 

» 

X tablespoonful whole cloves. 

Boil the sugar and vinegar for a few minutes. Skim; 
then add the damsons and spice. Boil gently three hours, 
stirring frequently. 

Spiced Plums, or any Fruit. 

7 pounds of plums. , 

4 pounds of sugar. 

I quart vinegar. 

I tablespoonful cinnamon. 

I tablespoonful cloves. 

Put the plums into the kettle with alternate layers of- 
su^ar. Heat slowly to a boil; add the vinegar and spice; 
boil five minutes; take out the fruit with a perforated 
skimmer and spread upon dishes to cool. Boil the syrup 
thick; pack the fruit in glass jars, and pour the syrup on 
foiling hot. Examine every few days for the first month, 
and should it show signs of fermentmg, set the jars (un- 
covered) in a kettle of water, and heat until the contents 
are scalding. 

Pickled Peaches. 

Do not peel the peaches, .but wipe with a coarse cloth; 
stick three or four cloves in each peach. Heat the peaches 
in just water enough to cover them, until they nearly 
boil; take them out and add to the water sugar in the 
following proportions: 

For every 8 pounds of fruit, , 

4 pounds of sugar. 

Boil fifteen minutes, skim and add, 

3}4 pints vinegar. 

I tablespoonful (each) allspice, cinnamon and mace. 

Put the spice in a thin muslin bag. Boil all together 
ten minutes then put in the fruit, and boil until thc^y can 
be pierced with a straw. Take out the fruit with a skim- 
mer; spread u[>on dishes to cool. Boil the syrup until it 
is thick; pack the peaches in glass jars, and pour this 



8WKKT PICKLES. II3 

over them scalding hot. Pickle pears in the same 
way without peeling. Cinnamon in sucks is prefer^ 
able to the ground. 

Watermelon rinds. 

7 pounds of rinds. 

3^ pounds of sugar. 

I quart of vinegar. 

i ounce white ginger. 

Cloves and cinnamon to taste. 

Take the thickest rinds, and pare off the hard 
green rind, and remove the seeds, slice and drain in 
a colander over night. In the morning put in a 
strong brine, changing every three days; in tde last 
brine, put in a little alum to make the rinds hard. 
Make the syrup and when hot put the rinds in and 
cook ten minutes, then remove and cook the syrup 
fifteen minutes, and pour over the lindSt They will 
be fit lor use in two weeks* 
15 



114 ADDITINONAL RECIPf^ 

Grebn Tomato CAT&crp. *" 

, Select tomatoes not over ripe, which skin and 
Strain. To each g^allon add, 

3 tablespoonfuls salt, 

3 '• ground black pepper, 

3 " mustard, 
I teaspoon ful allspice. 

Mix the spices with a part of the tomato and strain 
tbroup^h a sieve. 
In a small bag put 

4 large pods of sweet peppers, 

1 small onion. ^ 

. T5oii these with the catsup while it is being reduced. 
A'"i expressed juice of one quart of horse-radish, 

-'lit in bottles, tie a piece of cloth over the neck 
an • let stand three months to ripen. 
An improvement is to add, 
I cup chopped suet, 

3 pounds ot sugar, 

I quart of vinegar, • 
for each peck of tomatoes. Cook the suet with 
tomatoes and strain through a colander* 

Chili Saucb. 

i8 large ripe tomatoes. 
6 onions. 

4 red peppers. 

i head cabbage, or one small ono 
6 tablespoontuls sugar. 

5 " " salt. 
5 cupfuls vinegar. 

Chop all fine and cook one hour, then stir Inj 

I tablespoonful cinnamon. 

I ** mustard. 

1 " celery-seed* 

t teaspoonful of cloves. 

Seal for use. 



CATSUP& 

Walnut Catsup. 

The walnuts must be young, and tender enough to be 
pierced with a needle. Prick them in several places, and 
put them in a jar adding a handful of salt to every, thirty, 
and sufficient water to cover them. Break them up and 
leave them in the pickle two weeks, stirring every day. 
Drain off the liquor and cover the shells with boiling vin- 
egar to extract what remains in theni. Mash and strain 
through a colander. Allow for every quart, an ounce 
each of pepper and ginger, half an ounce each of cloves 
and nutmeg, beaten fine. For every two quarts add a 
pinch of cayenne, and half a teaspoonful celery-seed tied 
m a bag. Boil all together for one hour, if there are four 
quarts of the mixture. When cold put in bottles, putting 
an equal quantity of the spice in each one. Butternuts 
make a very nice catsup, made in the same manner. 

Currant Catsup. 

5 pounds ripe currants. 

4 pounds sugar. 

2 teaspoonfuls cloves, pounded fine. 

2 teaspoonful ground cinnamon. 

I pint vinegar. 

Mix the currants, sugar and spice together, and boil 
two hours; then add the vinegar. Boil up once and re- 
move from the fire. 

Tomato Catsup. 

I peck ripe tomatoes! 

5 tablespoonsful (level) of salt 
I teaspoonful cayenne pepper. 



Il6 CATSUPS. 

1 tablcspoonrul each of black pepper, powdered cloves 
and celery seed in a bag. 

7 tablespoonfuls ground mustard. 
. % ounce mace. 

Cut the tomatoes in halves, and put in the preserving 
kettle. Boil until the pulp is dissolved. Press through a 
hair sieve. Return to the fire, add the seasoning and 
boil four hours, stirring freciucntly. When cold, add a 
pint of strong vinegar. Take out the celery seed, and 
bottle, sealing the corks. Keep in a cool, dark [)lace. 

Horse Radish. 

Wash the roots, and scrape them free from the outside 
skin; grate the roots fmely an4 mix with strong vinegar. 
Add to one pint of the grated roots a teaspoonful of loaf 
sugar. 

Imitation Worcestershire Sauce. 

3 tablespoonfuls cayenne pepper. 

2 tablespoonfuls walnut or tomato catsup (strained 
through muslin). 

3 shallots minced Hne. 

3 anchovies chopped into bits. 

1 quart of vinegar. 

hi teaspoonful powdered cloves. 

Mix and nib through a sieve. Put in a stone jar^ set 
in a pot of boiling water, and heat until the liquid is so 
hot you cannot bear your fmgers in it. Strain, and let it 
stand in the jar, closely covered, two days tlien bottle for 
use. 

Gooseberry Catsup. 

a quarts gooseberries. 

I pint water. 

I teaspoonful ground cinnamon. 

I teaspoonful mace. , 

hi teaspoonful pepper. 

^ teaspoonful cloves. 



CATSUPS. 117 

rick clean ripe gooseberries, and boil till the fruit is 
quite tender; then add the spice, stir them together, and 
let it simmer a few minutes; then press out all the juice; 
add to each quart, one pound of sugar; reduce until the 
syrup is nearly a jelly, then thin with the best vinegar 
until of the consistency of molasses. Bottle and cork 
lightly. 

Ever Ready Catsup. 

2 quarts of cider vinegar. 

12 anchovies, soaked and pulled to pieces. 
12 small onions, chopped. 

1 tablcspoonful, each, mace and cloves. 

3 tablespoon fuls, each, salt, sugar and whole black 
pepper. 

2 tablespoonfuls ground ginger. 
l4 tablcspoonful cayenne. 

I quart sliced ripe tomatoes. 

Put in the kettle and boil until the mixture is reduced 
«to one-half its original quantity. Strain through a bag. 
. Let it remain until the next day, then bottle, fill to the 
lop and seal. 



SALADS, 

Sydney Smith's Recipb for Salad Dressing. 

Two boiled potatoes, strained through a kitchen sieve. 

Softness and smoothness to the salad give; 

Of mordaunt mustard take a single spoon — 

Distrust the condiment that bites too soon; 

Yet deem it not, thou man of taste, a fault, 

To add a double quantity of salt. 

Four times the spoon with oil of Lucca crown. 

And twice with vinegar procured from town; 

True taste requires it, and your poet begs 

The pounded yellow of two well-boiled eggs. 

Let onions' atoms lurk within the bowl, 

And, scarce suspected, animate the whole; 

And lastly, in the flavored compound toss 

A magic spoonful of anchovy sauce. 

Oh, great and glorious! oh, herbaceous meat! 

"T would tempt the dying anchorite to eat; 

Back to the world he*d turn his weary soul, 

And plunge his fingers in the salad bowl. 

Made Mustard. 

Pour a very little boiling water over three tablespoon- 
fals of mustard; to this stir in slowly, 
I teaspoonful sugar. 
I tablespoonful olive oil 
I saltspoonful salt. 
Yolk of I egg, well beaten. 
Add vinegar to suit your taste. 



SALADS. 119, 

Cold Slaw. 

I cup vinegar. 

A piece of bulter size of a walnut 

I egg. 

t teaspoonfiil mustard. 

I leaspoonful sugar. 

I teaspoonful salt, x 

1 leaspoonful flour. 

»4 leaspoonful pepper. 

Boil the vinegar and melt Ihc butter in it and pour 
over the above mixture; stir it well, then put it back on 
the stove to boil again about a minute; then pour thei 
whole upon the chopped cabbage. 

Horse Radish Sauce. 

2 teaspoonfuls made mustard. 
2 teaspoonfuls white sugar. 

J^ teaspoonful salt. > 

I gill of vinegar. , 

Mix and pour over grated horse-radish. 
Excellent with beef. 

Lettuce. / 

Get that in which the head is hard and compact. Lay , 
it in ice-water until nearly time to serve; then break off 
the imperfect leaves, and throw them aside. Cut off the 
remainder of the leaves from the root, and look them over 
carefully. Wash in two or three waters, and arrange the 
leaves in the bottom of a salad or other deep dish. Allow 
two hard-boiled eggs for each head of lettuce; have them 
ready, cold, to slice, and lay over the lettuce. Put bits of 
ice in here and there. Send at once to the table, and 
serve with sugar, vinegar, mustard and the best salad oiL 

Celery Salad. 

1 boiled egg. 

2 raw egg. 

I tablespoonful salad oil 



lao SALADS. 

2 teaspoonfuls white sugar. 

I saltspoonful salt. 

I saltspoonful pepper. 

6 tablespoon fu Is vinegar. 

i teaspoonful made mustard. 

Prepare the dressing as for tomato salad; cut the celery 
into bits half an inch long, and season. Eat at once, be- 
fore the vinegar injures the crispness of the vegetable. 

Tomato Salad. 

I dozen medium sized tomatoes. 
4 hard boiled eggs. 
1 raw egg. 

1 teaspoonful of salt. 
I teaspoonful cayenne pepper. 
, I teaspoonful white sugar. 

1 tablespoonful salad oil. 

2 teaspoonfuls made mustard. 
I teacupful vinegar. 

Rub the yolks to a smooth paste, and gradually add the 
seasoning, lastly the vinegar. Peel and slice the tomatoes 
a quarter of an inch thick, and put them on ice. Put a 
lump of ice in the dressing and let it remain until the 
dressing is cold, then remove and pour the dressing over 
the tomatoes and set it on the ice until ready to use. 

Lobster Salad. No. i. 

Cut very small the meat of one good sized lobster. 
The hen lobsters are best for salad, because they contain 
the red meat called " coral," which is desirable for gar- 
nishing. Put it in a salad dish, reserving the coral for or- 
namenting the salad. Make a- dressing as follows: 

Yolks of 2 raw eggs. 

Yolks of 2 eggs boiled hard. 

I tablespoonful made mustard. 

3 of melted butter, or the best salad oiL 
A little salt and pepper. 

Vinegar to your taste. 



SALADS. 181 

Mash the yolks of the boiled eggs very fine, and mix 
with the beaten raw eggs. Add gradually the other in- 
gredients. Beat the mixture a long time. Some persons 
like the addition of lemon-juice and a little brown sugar. 
Increase the quantity of dressing, as you may find neces- 
sary, according to the size of the lobster. Just before 
serving, take one or two good heads of lettuce which have 
been on the ice for several hours, and cut up very small 
the crisp inside leaves only. Put them over the lobster 
meat in the salad dish, first pouring over the lobster some 
of the dressing. Pour the remainder over the salad; gar- 
nish with the coral cut fine, the white of the two hard 
boiled eggs cut in rings, and two others boiled hard, and 
sliced. The salad is ready to serve. 

Lobster Salad. No. 2. 

Take one or two heads of white heart lettuce; they 
should be as fresh as possible; lay them in spring water 
for an hour or two; then carefully wash them, and trim 
off all the withered or cankered leaves; let them drain 
awhile, and dry them lightly in a clean napkin. Then 
take out the coral, or red meat, and mince the remaining 
parts very fine. Mash the coral fine, with the yolks of 
four hard boiled eggs, a little sweet oil, mustard, pepi)er 
and salt, all mixed well, and moistened with vinegar; in- 
corporate this mixture thoroughly with the meat; put it 
on a dish; sprinkle the whole with lettuce minced very 
fine. 

Salad Dressing. 

2 raw eggs. 

I tablespoonful of butter. 
8 tablespoonfuls of vinegar. 
J^ teaspoon ful mustard. 

Put it in a bowl over boiling water and stir until it be* 
comes like cream; pepper and salt to your taste. 
16 



122 SALADS. 

Suggestions. 

Chicken for salad, should boil until it comes from the 
bone easily. It it better to shred it than cut or chop. 
Equal parts of butter and salad oil are preferred by many 
to the entire quantity of either. The addition of the 
liquor the fowl is boiled in, is an improvement to moisten 
the salad with. P^t celery and cabbage in ice cold water 
for an hour or two before using for salads, to make it 
crisp. 

Chicken Salad. 

The meat of a cold chicken or turkey (boiled or roasted). 

^X the same amount chopped celery. 

2 eggs, boiled hard. 

I raw egg, beaten well. 

I teaspoonful of made mustard. 

I teaspoonful of salt. 

I teaspoonful pepper. 

I tablespoonful salad oil, or melted butter. 

I tablespoonful white sugar. 

5^ teacupful vinegar. 

Shred the meat well, removing all gristle and skin; cut 
the celery into pieces half an inch long or less, mix them 
well, and then prepare the dressing. Rub the yolks to a 
powder, add the seasoning, and then the oil, beating hard 
and putting it in a few drops at a time. Then add the 
raw egg beaten to a froth, and pour in the vinegar slowly, 
beating the dressing well as you do it. Pour this over the 
meat and celery, tossing up lightly, so that all will become 
saturated. When ready for the table, turn into a salad 
dish and garnish with the whites of cold boiled eggs, cut 
into rings, and sprigs of bleached celery tops. If you can- 
not get celery, crisp white cabbage may be substituted for 
celery, and celery vinegar used in the dressing. 

Turkey makes better salad than chicken. A fme salad 
may be made by using lean fresh roasted pork, instead of 
chicken* 



8ALAD8. 123 

Salad for Two CmcKSNa. 

Yolks of 8 eggs, well beaten. 

J^ cup of sugar. 

I tablespoonful of salt 

3 tablespoonfuls prepared mustard* 

Cayenne pepper to taste. 

\i cup of cream. 

I pint of vinegar. 

I cup of butter. 

Stir together until thoroughly mixed. 



IS4 ADDITIONAL RECIPES. 

CrSAM DrKSSINO for CABBAQii 

I cup milk. ^ • 

1 egg. 

1 teaspoonfiil mnstanL 

1 tablespoonful flour. 

i cup sugar. 

I cup vinepfar. 

Let I he milk come to a boll, and stir fn the ecTff, 
iu>>ar^ flour and mustard, well braten together. Add 
the vine|>;ar and let cool. Chop one head of cabbage 
very fine and pour the dressing over. Have the cab* 
bage as qold as possible. 



YEAST. 



Good yeast is indispensable to good bread. Many of 
the compounds sold for yeast are unfit for use. Every 
housekeeper should make sure, by her own personal atten- 
tion, that the yeast is properly made, and the jar well 
scalded. A jar having a close cover is best; bottles will 
burst, and you cannot be perfectly sure that a jug is 
cleansed from every particle of old yeast. To scald the 
jar, put it into a kettle of boiling water. This should be 
done every time you make yeast. Stoneware is liable to 
be cracked by the pouring of boiling water into it. Soft 
hop, or potato yeast, should be made once a week in the 
sunimer, and once in two weeks in the winter. No soft 
yeast can be fit for use if kept week after week; it may 
be rectified with saleratus, but the bread will not be very 
good. 

, Potato Yeast, No. i. 

4 large potatoes, or six small. 

2 quarts cold water. 

Double handful hops, tied in a coarse muslin bag. 

4 tablespoonfuls flour. 

2 tablespoonfuls white sugar. 

I tablespoonful salt. 

Boil and mash the potatoes while hot, stir in the flour, 
sugar and salt. Boil the hops in water five minutes and 
pour the tea over the mixture. Strain through a colander 
and let cool. When still slightly warm add four table 
spoonfuls of baker's yeast, or two yeast cakes. Set it in a 
warm place to rise until it ceases to bubble up, or until the 
next day. In summer it will work well in a few hours. 



196 YXA8T. 

Potato Ybast. No. t. 

4 good siz6d potatoes. 

4 tablespoon fuls white sugar. 
• I teaspoon fill of ginger. 

I teaspoonful of salt. 
« 2 cupfuls of flour. 

I pint of boiling water. 

Boil and mash the potatoes, then add the other ingre* 
dients, and pour over this the boiling water, and beat un- 
til the lumps disappear. After it is cooled add to it one 
cup of baker's yeast, and set away to rise. After it is 
done rising, put it in a glass jar and close; set away in a 
cool place. Add six tablespoonfuls of this yeast to your 
sponge. 

Salt Rising, or Milk Yeast. 

l4 cup new milk. 

I cup of boiling water. 

I teaspoonful of salt. 

Stir in flour enough to make a thick batter, and set it 
in a covered dish in warm w^ter; keep it at an even heat 
until light. 

To make the bread: Add a pint of warm water, or milk, 
and make a thick sponge, and let it rise. When light, 
knead well, and put into pans, and set to rise again, when 
it will be ready for the oven. 

Hop Yeast. No. i. 

3 good sized potatoes. 

A small handful hops. 

I teaspoonful sugar. 

I tablespoonful salt. 

Peel and grate the potatoes, put in enough walei 
to make two quarts of the mixture; then strain out 
the starch and let it settle, and return the water to the 
potatoes and boil them. Steep the hops and strain in 
when the potato is soft. Add the sugar and salt. Let 
the mixture boil up, then stir in the starch, that has set- 



YEAST. 127 

.. ibout the right thickness without adding 
any flour. When cold, add two-thirds cup of lively yeast; 
set it in a warm place to rise. Keep in a cool place. 

Hop Yeast. No. 2. 

4 large potatoes. 

1 handful hops. 
4 quarts water. 

3 large spoonfuls flour. 

2 spoonfuls sugar. 
I spoonful salt. 

I spoonful ginger. 

I teacup yeast. 

Put the hops in a coarse muslin bag. Boil in the water 
the hops and potatoes. When the potatoes are done, 
take out the hops, mash the potatoes and add the flour, 
sugar, salt and ginger. Scald the whole together; when 
cool add the yeast and set it to rise. 

Yeast Cak^ 

. Handful hops in a bag. 

3 large potatoes. 

I quart water (cold). 

I pint flour. 

I teacup sugar. 

I spoonful salt. 

Peel and slice the potatoes and place with the hops in 
the water; boil until the potatoes are soft. Put into a 
pan the flour, sugar and salt; scald them with the hop- 
water and potatoes, mashing the whole until smooth. 
When cool ndd four yeast cakes which have been well 
soaked. When the yeast is light, stir in corn meal till 
stiff enough to cut into cakes for drying. If too stiff, 
the cakes will be too hard. Sprinkle the moulding board 
with meal and spread the cakes on it, turning them fre- 
quently until dry. In warm weather place them in the 
air, but not \r\ the sun; in cold weather they will dry in a 
warm room near the stove. When dry, wrap in a paper 
and keei^ from the air. 



IS8 YSA8T. 

Yeast without Hops. 

I quart boiling water. 

4 ounces white sugar. 

I teaspoonful salt. 

I teacupful yeast. 

Stir into the water enough wheat flour to make a smooth 
thick batter. While hot stir in the sugar and salt. When 
cold add the yeast, and when fermented place in a cov- 
ered jar for use. One half teacupful is enough for two 
loaves of bread. This yeast is good for raising buck- 
wheat cakes» and makes bread very light and white, when 
good flour is used. 



\ 
ADDITIONAL RECIPES. 1 29 



BREAD. 



In the composition of good bread there are four im- 
portant requirements; good flour, good yeast, thorough 
kneading, and proper baking. Flour should be white and 
and dry, crumbling easily again after being pressed hard 
in the hand. If in handling the flour you notice a heavi- 
ness like ground plaster; if in squeezing it tightly, it re- 
tains the prints of the palm and fingers, and lies in the 
tray like a compact roll, or ball; or if it is in the least 
musty, or sour, the chances are ten to one against your 
having good bread. Next to the flour in importance is 
the yeast. This should be light in color and lively, effer- 
vescing easily when shaken, and emitting an odor like am- 
monia. If dull or sour, it is bad. Knead your bread 
faithfully. Do not work the dough over without spend- 
ing any strength. The hands should be shut closely, and 
the fists pressed hard and quickly on the dough (so. as to 
separate the fibres). A half hour is the least time to be 
given to kneading a baking of bread, unless you prefer, 
after having kneaded it till you have worked in the proper 
amount of flour, to chop it with a chopping-knife, four or 
five hundred strokes. An hour's kneading is not too 
much. . Young housekeepers, and often those who should 
have learned better, frequently fall into a mistake in the 
consistency of the dough. It should be mixed as soft as 
it can be handled. The dough should be set in a moder- 
ately warm place, and kept at an even temperature. If it 
is too cool, the fermentation is arrested, and the bread 
fails to rise; if it is too warm, the work goes forward too 
rapidly, and the bread is puffy and strong. The former 
difficulty may be remedied by more heat, and the latter by 



BREAD. 13 1 

a little soda dissolved in water and worked thoroughly in- 
to the dough. While rising it is much better to cover 
closely with a tin dish, as this prevents the steam from es- 
caping, or the forming of a crust before it is placed in the 
oven. The oven should not be too hot, as too much fire 
at first and then cooling it, forms a hard crust and leaves 
the middle undone, or what is termed "slack-baked." 
The heat should be uniform in all parts of the oven as 
this prevents the loaf from cracking open, or one side 
rising lighter than the other, and opening the oven door 
to turn the loaf injures the bread. When the loaves are 
. baked do not lay them flat on the table, as it is apt to make 
them heavy. Set them on the edge and put a cloth close- 
ly over them. This keeps in the steam and makes the 
crust soft. Some of the best cooks think that covering a 
cloth over hot bread injures its flavor, and prefer to leave 
the crust hard to covering it. 

Buttermilk Bread. 

1 quart of buttermilk, heated to scalding. 

2 quarts of flour. 
% cup of yeast. 

When the milk is slightly cool, pour over the flour the 
whey, and when cool enough, stir in the yeast. Beat well, 
and let it rise over night. Mix early in the morning add- 
ing as much tepid water as is needed for the required 
quantity of biread. Let the whole rise until quite light, 
then knead thoroughly and let it rise before baking. 

Hop Yeast Bread. 

I cup yeast. 

I quart new milk and water, or scalded milk and water. 

Stir in flour enough to make a stiff sponge and let h 
rise over night. In the morning stir it down and let it 
rise again; then mould thoroughly and fill bread pans 
half full; let them stand until light and bake three-quarters 
of an hour. ^ 



Ija DREAD. 

Bread for Large Baktno. 

Tajce eight pounds of flour, sift into bread disli; rub 
well into the flour a tablcspoonful lard or butter, ^[ake 
a deep hole in the Hour and having ready a quart of luke- 
warm water with a heaped tablcspoonful of fine salt, mix 
with flour and yeast, and pour in the cavity. Take a 
large spoon and stir in flour for a thick batter, then scat- 
ter a handful of flour over the batter; cover up the bread 
dish, and keep in a warm place, if cold weather. If sum- 
mer, any where will be warm enough, 'i'his is called set- 
ting the sponge. When the batter is fermented pour in as 
much warm water as will make it of projicr consistency. 
Knead it well until Arm and smooth. Tut it in the bread 
pans which must be well greased. In about one-half hour 
It will be ready for the oven which must be properly 
heated beforehand. 

Milk Bread. 

I quart milk. 

I teacupful yeast. 

l{ pound butter. 

I tablcspoonful white sugar. 

Stir in the milk, which should be made blood warm, a 
pint of flour and the sugar, lastly the yeast. Beat all to- 
gether well and let them rise five or six hours. Then 
melt the butter and add with a little salt. Work in flour 
enough to make a stiff dough, let this rise four hours, 
and make into small loaves. Set near the Are for half an 
hour and bake. In warm weather, add a "teaspoon ful of 
soda, dissolved in warm water to the risen sponge as ail 
bread mixed with milk is apt to sour. 

Patterson Bread. 

I quart flour. 

I teaspoonful soda. 

a teaspoonfuls cream tartar. 

I teaspoonful salt. 

Piece of butter twice the size of an egg. 



^ BREAD. 133 

2 eggs well beaten. 
2 teaspoonfuls sugar. 

1 pint sweet milk. 

Put into the flour the soda, cream tartar, salt and but- 
ter, before mixing with the milk; and bake in well greased 
gem pans, or-little tins. 

Milk Yeast Bread. 

See direction for Milk Yeast or Salt Rising. 

Bread Sponge. 

6 potatoes. 

2 tablespoon fuls white sugar. 

2 tablespooofuls of butteri 

1 quart of tepid water. 

3 cups of flour. 

^ 6 tablespoonfuls of yeast. * 

Boil and mash the potatoes while hot; stir the ingredi- 
ents to a smooth batter, then add the yeast. • Set over 
night; in the morning knead in sufficient flour to make a 
stiff spongy dough; knead vigorously for fifteen minutes. 
Set away to rise, and when light knead for ten minutes, 
mould out into modern sized loaves. Lot them rise until 
they are like delicate or light sponge cake. 

Graham Bread. No. i. 

2 cups of sour milk or buttermilk. 
l4 cup of best sugar or syrup. 

I teaspoon ful soda. 

l4 tcaspoonful salt. 

Stir with a spoon to a stiff mass (not too stiff, or the 
bread will be too hard). Put it in a three pint or two 
quart basin, well buttered, and place in the steamer over 
xM water, which gives the loaf more time to rise. Steam 
about two hours, then put in the oven just long enough 1^' 
to give a rich brown colpr. 



134 BMAD. 

Graham Bread. No. a. 

a cups Graham flour. 

I cup Indian meal. 

a tablespoon fuls molasses. 

I teaspoonful salt. 

I teaspoonful baking powder. 

I small teaspoonful soda. 

Add enough milk (half sweet and half sour) to make 
it a little stiffer than pound cake, and bake in a quick 
oven. 

Cream Biscuit. 

These are made in the same manner as butter milk bis- 
cuit, except no butter is required. Cream will make 
them sufhciently short. 

Cream Tartar Biscuit. 

I quart flour. , 

a teaspoonfuls cream tartiar. 

I teaspoonful soda. 

I teaspoonful salt. 

I pint cold water. 

Piece of butter size of an egg. 

Rub the butter into the flour until there are no lumps, 
tnen add the salt, and scatter in the cream tartar. Have 
ready the water in which the sods^ has been dissolved, 
pour into tjie flour, stirring quickly with a knife. Do this 
until the ingredients are well mixed, then add flour enough 
to mould smooth. Bake in a quick oven. These can be 
made of unbolted flour if desired. Make one half the 
quantity for a small family. 

Strawberry Shortcake. 

Make cream of tartar biscuit dough, a little shorter than 

usual. Roll it quite thin, and lay in the pans in sheets. 

Bake quickly. Take fresh strawberries or raspberries, and 

.^ itir sugar into them. Split the cake and butter both 

parts, and put on a layer of fruit and replace the upper 



BREAD. 135 

half of the cake. To be set on the table uncut, and eaten 
hot. Use buttermilk, or rich sour milk for this cake ii 
more convenient, but in that case omit the cream tartar. 

B.AKiNo Powder Biscuit. 

I quart flour. 

4 heaping teaspoonfuls baking powder. 

A little salt. 

Mix the powder and salt well in the flour. Wet up with 
sweet milk, stiff enough to roll, but do not knead. Cut 
with biscuit cutter and bake flftecn minutes. They are 
much nicer than with shortening. If desired one can use 
a piece of lard the size of an English walnut, well rubbed 
in the flour. 

Raised Biscuit. No. t. 

I pint of milk. 
j4 cup of yeast. 
I tablespoon ful of sugar. 

I teaspoonful of salt. / 

A piece of butter the size of an egg. 
Warmtthe milk and butter together. Set the sponge at 
night and mix hard in the morning. 

Soda Biscuit. 

To each quart of flour, add 

1 tablespoonful of butter. 

3^ teaspoonfuls baking powder. 
J^ teaspoon^salt. 

2 cups sweet milk. 

If soda and cream tartar are used, use one teaspoon 
soda and two teaspoonfuls cream tartar. Mix the baking 
powder thoroughly in the flour, then wet with the milk; if ' 
v^icT is used take double the quantity of butter. Knead 
but little and bake quickly. 

Raised Biscuit. No. 2. 

Cut off a portion of raised dough wMch bos bceii *mu4« 
ready for bread. Roll it out, spread uu a iituu- diioriea- 



136 ^ BltSAD. * 

bg, and mould it in; cut the biscuit^ and let them rise 
until light and then bake. These biscuit can be moulded 
in the morning when the bread is prepared, and placed in 
a cool place until tea, but must be raised before baking. 
Bake in a quick oven. 

Buttermilk. OR Sour Milk Biscuit. 

I pint buttermilk or sour milk. 

I quart* flour. 

Piece of butter half the size of an egg rubbed into the 
flour. 

I t^aspoonful soda, dissolved in hot water. 

A little salt. 

Rub the butter and salt into the flour and stir in the 
milk. Stir the soda in with a knife till well mi.xed. Add 
flour enough to mould it smooth. Roll and cut as tea 
biscuit. Bake in a quick oven. * 

Easter Buns. 

3 cups sweet milk. 

I cup yeast. 

Flour to make a thick batter. 

Set this as a sponge over night In the morning add 
* X cup sugar. 

% cup butter, melted. 

J^ nutmeg. ^ 

I saltspoonful salt. 

Flour enough to roll out like biscuit. Knead well, and 
set to rise for Ave hours. Roll half an inch thick, cut 
into round cakes, and lay in rows in a buttered baking- 
pan. When they have stood a half hour, make a cross 
upon each with a knife, and put instantly into the oven. 
I Bake to a light brown, and brush over with a feather or 
soft bit of rag, dipped in the white of an egg beaten up 
stiff with white sugar. . 

Buns. 

I pint warm milk. 
Jj cup white sugar. 



BREAD. «37 

}i Clip yeast 
J4 cup butter. 
I egg. 

Beat up and sponge with flour, and rise overnight; then 
knead and work up three times before baking. 

Plain Buns. 

These are made like the Easter buns, but not rolled in- 
to a sheet. Knead them like biscuit dough, taking care 
not to get it too stiff, and after the five-hour rising, work 
in two or three handfuls of currants which have been pre- 
viously well washed and dredged with flour. Mould with 
your hands into round balls, set these closely together in 
a pan, that they may form a loaf, which can easily be 
broken apart when baked. Let them stand nearly an 
hour, or until very light; then bake from half to. three- 
quarters of an hour until brown. Wash them over while 
hot with the beaten egg and sugar. These are generally 
eaten cold, or barely warm, and are best the day they are 
baked. 

Butter Crackers. 

1 quart of flour. 

4 tablespoonfuls of butter. 

\i teaspoonful soda dissolved in hot water. 

J^ teaspoonful salt. 

2 cups of sweet milk. 

Mix the butter in the flour as for pastry. Add the salt 
soda and milk, mixing well/ mould it into a ball and beat 
with the rolling pin for a half hour, turning the mass 
often. Roll into a sheet one quarter of an mch thick; 
prick with a fork and bake hard in a moderate oven. 
Dry in a bag hung up in the kitchen. 

Puffs. ^ 

6 heaping tablespoonfuls flour. 
I pint milk. 
« eggs. 

i8 



t38 BREAD. 

A saltspoonful salt. 

Bake in cups not quite half full. ^ Put in the oven when 
you sit down to dinner, and they will be ready (or desert 
Serve with cream ^nd sugar, or maple syrup. 

Crumpets. {Plain.) 

3 cups warm milk* 

J^ cup yeast. 

2 tablespoonfuls melted butter. 

I saltspoonful salt. 

1 saltspoonful soda, dissolved in hot water. 

Flour to make a good batter. 

Set these ingredients (leaving out the butter and soda) 
as a sponge. When very light, beat in the melted butter, 
with a very little flour, to prevent the butter from thin- 
ning the batter too much, stir in the soda hard, fill mufHn- 
rings, or patty-pans with the mixture, and let them stand 
fifteen mmutes before baking. 

/ 
Wafers. 

1 pound flour. 

2 tablespoonfuls butter. 
A little salt. 

Mix with sweet milk into a stiff dough, and roll very 
thin, cut into round cakes, and again roll these as thin as 
they can be handled. Lift them carefully and lay in a 
pan and bake quickly. They should be hardly thicker 
than writing paper. Flour the baking-pan instead of 
greasing. These are very nice, especially for invalids. 

Rolls. No. i. 

^ pint milk. 
j4 cup shortening. 
J^ cup yeast. 
6 cups flour. 
2 spoonfuls sugar. 

Mix early and set it to rise. Make out into rolls, let 
them rise half an hour in pans before baking. 



BREAD. 139 

^ Rolls, No. 2. 

2 quarts flour. 

I tablespoonful white sugar. 

I pint milk. 

j4 teacup yeast 

Butter the size of an egg. 

A little salt. 

Make a hole in center of the flour, put in the butter, 
salt and sugar; pour over this the milk previously boiled 
and cold, and also the yeast. When the sponge is light, 
mould for fifteen minutes. Let it rise again, and cut in 
long cakes. When light, flatten each cake with the roll- 
ing pin and put a small piece of butter on top and fold 
each over itself as a turnover. Put in pans to rise, and 
when light bake in a quick oven. 

French Rolls. No. i. 

Take out from the risen dough when ready to knead, 
enough for the tea rolls. Work into this dough a table- 
spoonful of lard or butter and let it stand in a cool place 
for four hours. Knead it and let it stand for three hours 
longer. Then make into rolls by rolling pieces of the 
dough into round cakes and fold these up like turnovers. 
Agam let these rise for one hour. Bake half an hour 
or less if the oven is quick. 

French Rolls. No. 2. 

I quart of milk; new, warm milk is best. 
I tcacupful of yeast. 
I }4 quarts of flour. 

1 egg. 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter. 
I teaspoon ful of salt. 

j4 teaspoonful soda dissolved in hot w^tcr. 
1 tablespoonful sugar. 

When the sponge is light, work in the egg, well beaten, 

•butter, soda, salt and sugar, and flour enough to make a 

soft dough. Let it stand Ave hours, then roll into round 



I40 BREAD. 

cakes and fold like turnovers. Set them closely together 
in the baking tin, let them rise one hour. Just before 
baking, draw a sharp knife across each roll to make them 
break in baking. Bake half an hour. 

Sweet Rusk. 

I pint warm milk. 
^ cup butter. 

1 cup sugar. 

2 eggs. 

1 teaspoonful salt. 

2 tablespoon fu Is yeast. 

Make a sponge with milk, yeast, and enough flour for a 
thin batter, and let it rise over night. In the morning 
add butter, eggs and sugar previously well beaten together, 
the salt, and flour enough to make soft dough. Mould 
with the hands into balls of uniform size. Set close to- 
gether in a pan and let them rise until very light. After 
baking wash the tops with a cloth dipped in molasses and 
water. 

Rusk. 

AVhen moulding bread into loaves, reserve suflicient for 
one loaf to make up into rusk. Add 

I large, heaping tablespoon of half butter and half lard 
(it should be fresh, sweet and cold). 

Whites of two eggs, well beaten. 

I tablespoonful sugar. 

Mix well, and set aside until very light; then mould in- 
to rather small rolls, let them stand half an hour, or until 
they look light and pufl*y. Wash over lightly with the 
beaten yolk of egg. liake twenty to twenly-flve minutes 
in a quick oven. 

Sally Lunn. No. i. 

I scant quart flour. 

4 eggs. 

I tcacupful milk. 



DREAD. ,141 

I teacupful lard and butter mixed. 

I tcasiioonful cream tartar. 

li leaspoonful soda dissolved in hot water. 

I teaspoonful salt. 

Beat the eggs very light, yolks and whites separately, 
melt the shortening, sift the cream tartar into the flour, 
add the whites the last thing. 

Muffins. No. i. 

I pint sweet milk. 

1 quart flour. 
^ egg. 

3 large spoonfuls sugar. 

2 teaspoon f u Is cream tartar. 
I teaspoon ful soda. 

Piece of butter size of an egg. 

Muffins. No. 2. 

I pint sour cream. 

3 eggs. 

I teaspoon ful soda. 

1 teaspoon ful salt. 

Enough flour to make as stiff as you can stir with m 
spoon. 

Buttermilk Muffins. 

i quart' buttermilk. 

2 eggs. 

I teaspoon ful soda, dissolved in hot water. 

I teaspoon ful salt. 

Flour to make good batter. Beat the eggs well and 
stir into the milk, beating hard all the while. Add the 
flour and salt, and lastly the soda. Bake in a quick oven. 

Sour Milk Muffins. 

I pint sour milk. 

X egg. 

I teaspoonful saleratus. 



t49 BREAD. 

X teaspoonful butter. 

X teaspoonful salt. 

Put the egg in the milk without beating. -Melt the but- 
ter and saleratus in a spoonful of hot water. Make quite 
a thick batter and beat well. Have the griddle of mod- 
erate heat; grease it and^also the rings, lay them on and 
fill only half full of the batter. ^ 

Rice Muffins. 

I cup cold boiled rice. 

I pint flour. 

2. eggs. 

I quart milk, or enough to make thin batter. 

I tablespoonful lard or butter. 

I teaspoonful salt. 

Beat hard, and bake quickly. 

Graham Muffins. 

3 cups Graham flour. 

1 cup wheat flour. 

2 tablespoonfuls sugar. 

2 eggs. . . 

2 teaspoonfuls cream tartar. 
X teaspoonful soda. 

A little salt. 

Take piece of butter the size of an egg, put it into a 
pint of sweet milk, set it on the stove pntil melted, and 
mix together. 

Raised Graham Muffins. 

3 cups Graham flour. 
X cup wheat flour. 

I quart milk. 
5^ cup yeast. 
I tablespoonful lard or butter. 

1 teaspoonful salt. 

2 tablespoonfuls sugar. 

Set to rise over night; bake in muffin-rings twenty 
minutes in quick oven. Eat when hot. 



BREAD. 143 

Corn Meal Muffins. 

I cup com meal. 

ij4 cups flour. 

I yi cups sweet milk. 

1 egg. O ^ 

2 small tablespoonfuls shortening. 

2 small teaspoon fuls baking powder. 

I teaspoonful'salt. 

The egg can be omitted. If baking powder is not used, 
take two teaspoonfuls cream tartar^ and one teci^poonful 
soda. * • . 

Graham Rolls. 

1 egg. 

2 tablespoonfuls sugar. 
Ji cup molasses. 

I cup sour milk. 
I teaspoonful soda. 
I teaspoonful ginger. 
j4 teaspoonful salt. 
2^4 cups Graham flour. 
Bake in gem pans. 

Graham Gems.^ 

I pint of sour milk. ^ 

I teaspoonful soda. * 
I egg. 

1 tablespoonful shortenmg. 

Graham flour enough to make a sti£f batter* 
Bake in gem irons. 

French Toast. 

2 eggs. 

I pmt cold milk. 

I teaspoonful salt. 

Take thin slices of stale bread and dip into the eggs 
and milk after being beaten together. Drain off the milk 
from the bread, and brown both sides on buttered grid- 



144 DREAD. 

die; serve in hot covered dish. Eat with syrup or butter 
and sugar. ' 

Milk Toast. 

I quart milk. 

J4 cup butler. ^ ;• 

Thicken with flour broken ijup in cold milk or water,and 
scald for a few niij^tes. ^Brown the slices of bread, and 
dip into the thickened *lnilk. It is well to soften the 
bread by dipping itUn hot water, in which a little salt has 
been dissolved. . This can be used for butter toast, by us- 
bg water instead of milk, and using one cupful butter. 

^ . Johnny Cake. No. i. 

I pint sour milk, or buttermilk. 

I egg. 

a tablespoon fuls flour. 

I teaspoon fill salt. 

I teaspoonful soda dissolved in hot water. 

Mix the egg, milk and (lour, and^add enough meal to 
make a thick batter; and finally add salt and soda after 
being dissolved in the hot water. Beat very rapidly, and 
bake quickly and steadily. 

Johnny Cakb. No. a. 

I cup cream. ♦ 

I cup sweet milk. 

a tablespoonfuls sugar. 

< I egg. 
I teaspoonful salt. 
I teaspoonful soda. 
Meal to mix soft. The sugar can be omitted* 

Johnny Cakx. No. 3, 
x-egg. 

a cups com meaL 
^ cup flour. 
3 tablespoonfuls sugar. 



BREAD. 



MS 



2 teaspoonfuls baking powder. 
Milk enough to make it soft. 

Brown Bread. 
t quart sweet milk, 

4 cups meal. /S^u- ^^ 

2 cups flour. \'[ ')■ r} 

^ cup molasses. ^•^ij'rr 

I teaspoonful salt. ^ ' ""'s^S 

1 teaspoonful soda. 

Bake slowly for one hour. » 

Steamed Brown Bread. ^ 

2 cups sweet milk, i '1. f ,"" v . r" ^ ^ f ^ 

I cup sour milk. / ], ' ^ / i ' ;\: 

3 cups corn meal. /" , ^' r '' ' " . « 
I cup flour. /; ' ' ^ 

yi cup molasses. {/'^ r 

I egg. 

I teaspoonful sodafc 

I teaspoonful salt. 

Steam three hours. 

Graham and Indian Bread. 

3 cups Indian nieaL^ 

I heaping cup Graham flour. 

j4 Cup molasses. 

I teaspoonful salt. * 

I teaspoonful soda. 

1 cup SOU]; milk. 

Scald the meal over night; steam three hours, and bake 
k) give a nice crust 

Boston Brown Bread. 

2 pints Indian meal. ^ 
' I pint rye meal. 

r cup molasses. 
I tablespoonful soda. 
'9 



146" BREAD. 

Mix with sour or buttermilk quite soft, so it will pour. 
Put the soda into the molasses, and molasses into meal. 
Add a little salt. Steam five or six hours. 

Raised Brown Bread. 

I pint warm waterT 

1 cup flour. 

7 cups rye meal. 

2 cups Indian meal. 
I cup molasses. 

I small cup good yeasf 

I teaspoonful salf. 

I small teaspobnful soda. 

Pour the mixture into a tin pudding pan or pail; let it 
rise three hours. Set it into a kettle of boiling water, and 
steam four hours. 



ADDITIONAL RECIPES. 147 



ny 



148 AODITfONAL RBCIPBS. 



ADDITIONAL ULCSnSL I49 



15^ ADDITIONAL RBCIPSS^ 



GRIDDLE CAKES AND WAFFLES. 

Green Corn Griddle Cakes. 

Grate the corn from the cob, and allow one egg for ev- 
ery cupful, with one tablespobnful of milk or cream; beat 
eggs well, add the corn, salt to taste; add one tablespoon- 
ful melted butter to every pint of com, stir in the milk, , 
and thicken with just enough flour to hold them together, 
ss^y one tablespoonful for every two eggs. Fry m hot 
lard; or better, cook on griddle. 

Buckwheat Cakes. No. x. 

2 quarts'buckwheat flour. 
4 tablespoonfuls yeast. 
I teaspoonful salt. 

1 handful Indian meal. 

2 tablespoonfuls molasses, not syrup. 
Warm Avater enough to make -a thin batter. 

Beat well, and set to rise in a warm place. If the bat- 
ter is the least sour in the morning, stir in a little soda 
dissolved in hot water. Mix in an earthen crock, and 
leave a cupful or more in the bottom each morning to, 
serve as sponge the next night, instead of getting fresh 
yeast. In cold weather, this plan can be pursued for i 
week or ten days Avithout getting a fresh supply. 

Buckwheat Cakes. No. 2. 

I quart warm water. 

I tablespoonful scalded Indian meal. 

I teaspoonful salt. 

I gill yeast. 

Buckwheat flour enough to make a thin batter. Let it 



15 a GRIDDLS CAKES AND WAFFLES. 

rise oyer night, in the morning add a quarter of a tea* 
spoonful of soda, do this whether the cakes are sour or 
not. Buckwheat cakes cannot be made in perfection 
without this addition; but it should never be put in until 
just before they arc baked. They should be made as thin 
as they can be, and be turned on the griddle. All kinds 
of griddle cakes should bef well beaten. Flour Or Graham 
flour can be used with buckwheat; if used, omit the Indian 
meal, and take oiie-third ds much wheat flour, or Graham 
as buckwheat. 

BkEAti CRmoLK Cakes. 

1 quart milk (boiling hot)« 
a quarts fme bre^d crumbs. 

i eggs. 

1 tablespoonful melted butter. 

1 teaspoonful salt. 

I teaspoonful soda dissolved In hot water. 

Soak the bread in the milk ten minutes in a covered 
bowl; beat it to a smooth paste, add the beaten yolks, the 
butter, salt, soda and finally the whites beaten stiff. Bake 
on griddle. 

RiCB Griddle CaIces. 

Puf a pint arid a half of cold boiled rice, in warm wa- 
tet enough to cover it, and let it soak an hour. Mash the 
rice well, and make a batter with one quart of sour milk, 
one light quart Of flour, salt to taste, and two eggs well 
bftilten. The batter should be moderately thick. Stir in 
II tablespoonful of soda just before frying. 

Griddle Cakes. No. x. 

1 pint sour milk. 

« egg. 

a teaspoonfuls soda. 

Piece of butter size of a walnut. 

Flour enough to make smooth batter 



GRIDDLK CAKES AN0 WAFFLES. %$^ 

Stale bread tan be used by soaking until soft, in either 
milk or water, several hours. Less flour will be needed if 
the bread is used. 

CRfDt>t£ Cakes. No. 2. 

1 quart sweet milk. , 

2 eggs 

I teaspoonful salt. 

I tablespoonful butter, melted in, the milk. * • , , 
I gill yeast. 

Flour enough to make a smooth batter. Make in the 
morning, and they will be light for tea. 

Risen Waffles. 

I quart milk. 

1 heaping quart flour. 
5 tablespoon fuls yeast 

2 eggs. 

I tablespoonful melted butter. 

I teaspoonful salt. . 

Set the mixture — without the eggs and butter — over 
night as a sponge; Add these in the morning; bake in 
waiile irons. 

Rice Waffles. 

I cup boiled rice. 

1 pint milk. 

2 eggs. 

Piece of lard, size of a walnut 

hi teaspoonful ^oda. 

I teaspoonful cream tartar. 

I teaspoonful salt. 

Enough flour for a thin batter. 

Quick Waffles. 

I pint milk; 

3 eggs beaten very lightly. 

I tablespoonful melted butter. 



154 GRIDDLE CAKES AND WAFFLES. 

^ I teaspoonful cream tartar sifted in the flour. 
}i teaspoonful soda. 
I teaspoonful salt. 
I pint flour, or enough to make a soft batter. 



FRITTERS. 

Fritters. 

2 eggs well beaten. 

2 tablespoonfuls melted lard. 

J^ cup sweet milk. 

I heaping teaspoonful baking powder. 
• A little salt. 

Flour to make a stiff batter. 

Drop from spoon into hot lard; turn two or three timM. 
while cooking to prevent too much browning. To be 
eaten warm with maple or sugar syrup. | 

Snow Fritters. 

Stir together enough milk, flour and a little salt to 
make a thick batter; add new fallen snow in the propor- 
tion of a teacupful to a i)iht of milk. Have the fat ready 
hot, at the time you stir in* the snow, and drop the batter 
into it with a spoon. These are preferred by some to 
those made with eggs. 

Ego Plant Fritters. 

Take a larpe sized egg plant, leave the stem and skin 
on, and boil it in a porcelain kettle until very soft, just so 
you can get it out with the aid of a fork or spoon; take 
off all the skin and mash very fine in an earthen bowl. 
When cold, add a teaspoon of salt, plenty of pepper, a 
large iron spoonful of flour, a half teacupful of cream or 
milk, and three eggs. This forms a nice batter. Have 
lard hot, drop the batter in as you would fritters, and 
brown them nicely on each side. 



c56 frittfrs 

^ Fritters or Pancakss. 

I pint milk. 

3 eggs. 

A little salt. 

Flour enough to make quite a thick batter. Beat wel!, 
then drop with a spoon into hot fat and fry like dough- 
nuts. To be eaten with syrup. 



VEGETABLE MAXIMS. 



To beat mashed potatoes with a fork| improves them 
as much as to beat the eggs for a cake. 

Sweet potatoes are best steamed until tender and then 
baked. 

Potatoes fried in boiling lard» like fritters, are verjr nice, 
and do not soak fat if the grease is hot enough. 

Three hours is short time enough to cook oat meaL 

It is a rare thing to see any kind of farinaceous food, 
— either of oat, com, barley^ rice or wheat — sufficient!/ 
cooked. 

Any kind of mush cooks more quickly and is nicer, 
not to be salted till nearly done. 

Many people think tomatoes equal to peaches when 
eaten with cream and sugar. ^ 

Tomatoes are preserved with salt the same as cucum- 
bers. 

Vegetables which are eaten without cooking, as radishes 
and celery, should be kept cold till they are eaten. 

No vegetable is nice if it wilts before it is cooked. 

Bread mixed with water will keep moist longer than if 
mixed with milk. ( 

To warm over gems, rolls, etc., dip them in cold water 
for an instant, and put them into a hot oven. 

To freshen stale crackers, put them into a hot oven 
dry. 

Fried cakes can be freshened in the same way .as 
crackers. 

Cold griddle cakes soaked soft and stirred into fresli 
batter are fully equal to bread crumbs. 

Chocolate is never nice warmed up after it has cooled. 
It should be kept hot. 

Use boiling milk in coffee and chocolate. 

Unused tea may be saved by pouring it off «the|;roundt 
and heating the liquid over. 



HYGIENIC EFFECT OF VEGETABLES. 

Wheat. 

' Wheat contains all of the elements necessary to health 
m the best proportions for a moderate climate, when 
cooked by boiling, or as cracked wheat, or. Graham flour. 
The common superfine flour, however, contains, little 
except starchy matter which serves as fuel 

Indian Corn. 

Indian com contains a |;reat amount of oil, and so 
possesses remarkable fattenmg qualities, and is likewise 
remarkable as a heat producer. 

Oats 

are very rich in nutriment for the brain and muscles. 

Rice 

will keep a person fat, but lacks the elements which pro- 
duce muscle or brain. 

Potatoes. 

Both Irish and sweet potatoes are very poor food for 
brain and muscle, but they contain a great amount of 
waste matter, and they are the best of anything to mix 
with strong foods like most meats. 

Turnips, Carrots, Squashes, Parsnips, etc., 

are nearly all water and are dear at any price except in 
hot weather, when we need to flood the system and take 
very little strong food. 



hygienic effect of vegetables. i59 

Buckwheat 

is only good for a ride in the- cold, having but little m^te* 
rial for muscle or brain, but over 75 per cent, of heating 
matter. It should never be eaten except in winter. 

RVE 

is excellent food for persons inclined to constipation and 
with com meal makes good bread, nourishing and di- 
gestible. ^ 

Beans and Peas. / 

These contain double the amount of muscle and brain 
matter, and treble the waste material necessary, but lack 
in heating material. The are appropriately used with 
pork or butter to supply the requisite carbonates. Being 
hard of digestion they are good for actiye persons of 
strong digestion. 

Fruits, 

Fruits are necessary to people of sedentary habits. Their 
acids are needed every day to eliminate effete matter 
which clogs the system, causing jaundice, sleeplessness, 
scurvy and troublesome diseases of the skin. Their 
solid matter also is of great value as it is mostly woody 
fibre and indigestible, so remedying constipation. 
Apples compared with wheat contain twice as much food 
for muscle, and four times as much for brain. 



SUGAR. 



The sap and juices of all plants and fruits contain su- 
sar. Those plants and fruits which contain sour or acid 
juice yield grape sugar; while those 'which jcontain little 
OT no acid in their saps, contain generally cane sugar. 

Grape Sugar consists of twelve parts of carbon to four- 
teen parts of water; while cane sugar contains twelve 
parts of carbon to eleven parts of water. Two pounds 
of cane sugar will sweeten as much as five pounds of 
grape sugar. Grape sugar may be produced by art, while 
cane sugar cannot. - Eleven- twelfths of all the su^ar of 
commerce is made from sugar cane. This is sold m the 
forms of raw, or muscovado, or is commonly called ^r^<^ 
tugar^ molasses, refined sugars, sugar-house molasses, and 
syrups. 

CarU' Juice contains vegetable albumen, a substance 
which has a strong tendency to fermentation, hence when 
left to itself is rapidly changed; the acid of vinegar be- 
in^ generated. To neutralize this acid, lime is added and 
it IS boiled until a syrup is produced. The liquid is then 
drawn off into shallow vessels and stirred. As it cools, 
the sugar granulates or appears in the form of grains or 
crystals. Part of the syrup will be changed by the boil- 
ing so that it will not granulate, and this will keep the re- 
mainder from becoming solid. The product is then 
placed where it can drain and a large part of this syrup 
flows away, and is collected in separate vessels and is 
known as molasses. This sugar is muscovado, or more 
commonly called brown sugar. 

This brown sugar contains more or less vegetable albu- 



/ SUGAR. ^ l6l 

men; this albumen has a great tendency to decomposition . 
by which process the cane sugar is changed to grape sugar. 
This change, of course, lessens its sweetening properties, 
and lowers its value. 

The vegetable albumen in this raw sugar offers nourish- 
ment to a minute insect called the sugar-mite. This sugar 
is seldom found without this disgusting insect. The re- 
fined sugars contain no albumen, and consequently offer 
no nourishment to them. Their presence can be detected 
by dissolviilg two or three tablespoonfuls of sugar in a 
wine-glass of tepid water. Let it stand an hour or two, 
and the animalculae will be found on the Surface. The 
mite is visible to the naked eye as a mere speck, but can 
be easily seen with the microscope. 

TJu molasses which flows away from the sugar consists 
of the saccharine, or sugary matter combined with tlie 
lime used in its manufacture; also with small quantities 
of alkalies. 

Molasses itself is also aciduous. On this account it 
cannot be used with yeast. But the molasses takes effect , 
upon saleratus (or soda) and sets free carbonate acid gas. 
Carbonate of magnesia and tartaric acid may be used 
instead of saleratus with molasses, and it is more agreeable, . 
as well as more wholesome. The peculiar strong taste of 
molasses may be removed by boiling for half an hour with 
pulverized charcoal. Crude sugar is refined to clearise it 
of its impurities, and improve its color and taste; this is ' 
done, by first melting it, and mixing with it a small por- 
tion of animal albumen (ox blood), which clears it of 
mechanical contaminations. The syrup is then filtered 
through a bed of animal charcoal (burnt bones crushed), 
by which it is decolorized. It is then crystallized by boil- 
ing at a low temperature in vacuum pans in which the at- 
mospheric pressure is removed. 

Sugar-Jiouse Molasses and Syrups are the residue which 
remain uncrystallized in purifying and refining brown 
sugars. These are much more cleanly and pure than 
common molasses and consequently are less used for cook- 

21 I . 



|6a SUGAR. 

\ . ing. Part of the sugar taken into the system is absolved 
:'' through the veins and burned away to produce heat. 
Y' Another part is turned into lactic acid, and assists in di- 
gestion; and a part is converted into fat in the body. 
There is an old opinion that sugar when eaten freely, at- 
tacks the teeth, corrupting them and spoiling their color, 
but ^ood authoritv, including Dr. Pereira, declares this 
opinion totally unfounded. No people have finer teeth 
than the negroes of Jamaica, and none, perhaps, use sugar 
more liberally. 

Nature evidently intended children to have sugar, as a 
fondness for it seems a common instinct; and besides it 
is very plenty in their first food — ^milk. 



i 



CAKE. 



Use none but the best materials for cake making. 
Have all your materials ready for use before you begin 
mixing the ingredients; butter your pans beforehand, for 
cake IS injured by standing. Cake is better made in 
earthen than in tin. All kinds of cake are better if the 
whites and yolks are beaten separately; be careful in sep- 
arating that none of the yolk gets in the white, as it may 
prevent their frothing well. Eggs beat more quickly that 
have been laid two or three days, than when laid the same 
day. In warm weather if the . eggs are placed in cold 
water or on ice some time before using, they will cut into 
a much finer froth. Much time can be saved by using an ' 
egg-beater, and we would recommend the " Dover " as ' 
bemg the best in use for this purpose. The whites ^re 
perfectly beaten when they will remain on the upturned 
vessel in which they were beaten without slipping; the 
yolks are light with no stringy appearance, when perfectly 
beaten; it takes as long, if not longer to beat the yolks 
than the whites. The whites make the cake lighter and 
the yolks enrich it. For very nice cake the yolks should 
be strained after beating. Do not use fresh and stale 
milk in the same cake. Sour milk makes a spongy cake; 
sweet milk one closer in grain. Except for molasses cake 
use none but white sugar, and many prefer the*powdered 
to the granulated. Be careful in your weights and meas* 
ures. Beat the butter and sugar together, until they look 
like cream. When creant or sour milk is used, half of it 
should be added when half the flour is, and the rest of 
the flour, milk and soda stirred in last. When fruit is 



^. 



t64 CAKB. 

used it should be dredged in the flour, as it prevents it 
settling to the bottom. In winter soften^ but do not melt 
the butter. In summer do not stir the ca)ce with your 
hands as the warmth makes it less light. If the butter is 
from a firkin, wash it to remove the salt. Streaks in cake 
are caused by unskilful mixing, too rapid baking, or sud- 
den decrease in heat while baking. If necessary to move 
the cake while in the oven, do so very carefully as a slight 
jar may cause it to fall; if it hardens too quickly on top, 
cover with paper. It should rise to its full height before 
the crust forms. Sift your flour before measuring, as all 
recipes are for sifted flour. It is better to line the pans 
with paper, which can be buttered; in buttering the pans 
melt the butter to extract the salt. Keep the cake in a 
tin box or stone jar. 

Molasses Cakes should be made of real West India 
molasses, syrup will not do. They should be put in the 
oven immediately after adding the soda; bake m a quick 
but not hot oven, without burning, until well done. They 
must be used fresh unless made hard; when thus made 
they will keep some time. If shortened with lard, salt 
must be added. Alum makes hard gingerbread more brit- 
tle, but should be used in small quantities, and when used 
more soda is needed. If eaten warm, break instead of 
cutting. Bake in shallow pans, as most people prefer the 
cruSt to soft gingerbread. Warm gingerbread baked in 
deeper pans, and eaten with sauce makes a good dessert 
for dinner. 

Orangs Cakb. No. i. 

I cup white sugar, """"t^ 

. J^ cup butter. 
^ cup of milk. 
4 eggs. ^ 

I heapmg table^oonful bakmg powder. 
8 cups sifted flour. 
I orange (grated peel). 
Beat the Hutter and sugar to a cream, then add the eggs 



CAKE. 165 

well beaten, and the milk. Stir the baking powder into 
the flour, and add lastly. Grate the orange peel into the ' 
cake. This is sufficient for four layers. Bake in jelly ( 
cake tinsi * 

Icing for the Same. 

if 

Whites of 2 eggs. 

t heaping coffee-.cup pulverized sugar. 

Juice of one orange. 

Beat the \Vhites of the eggs and sugar until it creams; 
then add the orange juice. Spread between the layers of 
cake when cold. Reserve a little for frosting on top layer. 

L^MON Cake. 

Make the same as orange, only substituting one lemon 

for the orange, and using in the same manner, 

* ^ . . 

Orange Cake. No. 2. *• 

i^ Yolks of s eggs. 
X 2 cups of sugar. 
^ 4 tablespoonfuls butter. 
}4 cup sweet milk. 

2}^ cups of flour. • *^ 

I ]4 teaspoonfuls baking powder. « '*- 

Juice of one orange. 

Bake in four cakes. Make icing as in the first recipe 
using the whites of the five eggs, and spread between the 
layers, sprinkling the grated peel over it. Frost the top. 



""x^ Sea Foam Cake.' 



;f 



■* 



Whites of 10 eggs. 
I J^ teacups pulverized sugar. r 

I rounding cup of flour. • • 

}4 teaspoonful cream tartar mixed in the fldur. ^1* 

Flavor with lemon. . * , ^^^ 

Beat the wljjjes to a stiff froth, sift the sugar in, then 
add the flou? m which the cream tartar has been mixed, ^, 



l66 CAKB. 

Stir lightly, just enough to mix the flour. Bake one hoar 
When the sizzling sound cf^ases, the cake is done. 

Ribbon Cake. {fV/iiU Part.) 

Whites of 6 eggs. 
I cup sugar. 
J^ cup of butter. 
J4 cup of milk. 

1 teaspoonful baking powder. 

2 cups of flour. 

Flavor with lemon. t 

Beat the sugar and butter to a cream, and the whites to 
a stiff froth. Bake in jelly cake tins. This will make 
two layers, which will be an inch thick when done. 

\|l ^ . Dark Part. 

}{ cup molasses. 
}{ cup of sugar. 

I egg. 

j£ cup of butter. 

I cup of seeded raisins. 

}i cup of currants. 

I cup flour. 

J^ cup hot water or coffee. 
/ (i teaspoonful saleratus. 
' 5^ teaspoonful cloves, and same of cinnamon. 

A little nutmeg, and small piece of citron chopped pcpy 
fine. > ^ 

Beat the sugar, molasses and butter together; then add 
the egg we|l beaten. Rub the fruit in the flour, so all 
will^mix well. Dissolve the saleratus in the hot water. 
Mix together. This is suflicient for one layer. When 
the cake is done, place a layer of white on a plate, and 
spread with jelly of some kind; then put the dark cake 
on, and. spread* this with jelly also; then put the layer of 
white on, and frost the top. * 



CAKK. i6y , 

^ Silver Cake. 

Whites of 5 eggs. 
8 cups white sugar. 
I cup butter. 

1 cup milk. 

2 J^ cups sifted flour. ' 

1 cup cornstarch. 

2 teaspoonfuls baking powder. 
Flavor with lemon. ' . 

Cream the butter and sugar; add next the whites of the 
eggs well beaten, then the comstarcli and flour into which 
the baking powder has been sifted; lastly the flavoring. 

Gold Cake. 

Make in the same manner as silver cake, only using the 
yolks instead of whites, and flavor with vanilla. 

Feather Cake. 

I cup of sugar. 

I cup of milk. ^ 

I tablespoonful of butter. 

1 egg. 

2}4 cups of flour. 

2 teaspoonfuls cream tartar. 

z teaspoonful soda. % 

Flavor with nutmeg or lemon. Bake in loal 

Tri-Color Cake. 

' I coffee cup of white sugar. l- 

z tablespoonful butter. 

"Wiites of 4 eggs. ^ 

f' jj cup of sweet cream. { 

z cup of flour. . 

% teaspoonful soda. 

z teaspoonful cream tartar. 

Make another cake the same way, using the yolks; then 
another, using one-half cup of red sand sugar, and one- ' 



! l68 CAKK. , 

^half cup white sugar, in place of the white sugar. Bake 
in sheets having each slbout three-quarters of^ an inch in 
thickness. . Lay the three sheets one above another thus: 
the yellow underneath, the red in the center, and the white 
above. Put them together while warm, and brush with 
the beaten white of an egg, to make them adhere. Put 
icing on the top. 

Citron Cake. 
jf(?r Yolks of 6 eggs. 
'*V > 1 cup of sugar. 
V; M J4 cup of butter, ^'i^' , 
\% cups of sifted flour. 
j4 cup of cornstarch. ' 
J^ cup of milk. 
I teaspoonful baking powder. 
5^ pound citron. 
'; , Flavor with vanilla. 

Miit according to previous directions for cake. The 
citron must be shaved in very thin pieces, and rolled in 
flour to prevent settling to the bottom of the cake. Bake 
in a loaf. 

For the Frosting. 
White of I egg. 

^ cup of pulverized sugar beaten together and flavored 
with vanilla. 

Delicate Cake. 

Whites of 4 eggs. 
I J^ cups of sugar. 
14 cup of butter. 
^ cup sweet milk. . 

^ teaspoonful soda, dissolved in the milk. 
^ ; I teaspoon/ul cream tartar. 
' a teacupfuls flour. 
Bake in a loaf. 

Chocolate Cake. 



■^/ 



* x'l cup of butter. 
. 8 cups of sugar. 



CAJCE. I^ . 

3 cups of flour, . '\ 

4 eggs. ^• 

1 cup of milk. ' 

2 teaspoonfuls baking powder mixed in flour. 
Bake m jelly cake tins. 

Filling. 

Whites of two eggs beaten to a froth. 

I cup of powdered sugar. 

J^ pound grated chocolate, wet in , • " 

1 tablespoonful of cream. 

1 teaspoonful of vanilla. • 
Beat the sugar into the whipped whites; then the choc- 
olate. Whisk all together hard for t^ree minutes before 
adding the vanilla. Let the cake ^et quite -cold before ■ 
you spread it. Reserve a little of the mixture for the 
top, and beat more sugar into ttiis to form a firm icing. 

Water Melon Care. \White Fart^ 

Whites of 6 eggs. 

2 cups of white sugar. 

1 cup of butter. 

i cup of milk. # ' 

4 even cups of flourr» j^ • ^k 

2 teaspoonfuls baking powden ^P^ ;V^ 
Flavored with lemon. "" i? , 

RedFarC 

Whites of 2 eggs. 

5^ cup red sugar sand. 

J^ cup butter. ("^ 

J4 cup milk. ' A 

2 cups flour. ^ '.. 

I teaspoonful baking powder. ' , v 4. 

Beat the sugar and butter to a cream, and the e^gs to a 
stiff froth. Take one-half the quantity of the white niix- ^ 
turej^pi| the bottom layer; then put the red mixture on, 
andfp^ two rows of seed^ raisins so they will be an 
inch^part. Then the rest of the white for top layer. 

22 . . ■ *.. ■■ '' 



I70 CAKK. 

:Bake in loaf tins. The raisins rq>re8ent the seeds cl 
water melons, so only a f eir are nec^sary. 

Crbam Cauu 

z cup of sugar. 

a eggs. 

% cup of milk. 

^ teaspoonful soda. 

z teaspoonful cream tartar. 

I }i cups of flour. 

» Cream far Filling. 

.« eggs. 

I cup of sugar, p 
. }i cup of flour. ^ < 

I pint of milk. 

Boil as a'custard in a v&sel M within another of boil- 
ing water. When cold, flavor with v^illa. Bake the cake 
' in two jelly cake tins. When cold, split them, and spread 
the cream on the lower crust of each, and then place the 
top on. 

lex Cream Cakb. 



Whites of 6 eggs. • 




f cups^Fsifted^flour. , 

■ I'cup of cornstarch. • 

^ z cup of butter. 

1 cup of milk. 

2 teaspoonfuls baking powder, or i teaspoonful soda, 
and two of cream tartar. 

Bake in jelly cake tins. 

Jcif^ to put Between the Lasers. 

White? of 4 eggs. 
# 4 cups pulverized sugar. « 

Pouf a pint of boiling water over the sugar, bAl^ard 
\ until cleaf and strings from %He spoon; then pour llv^iDil- 
^ inir hot sugar over the beaten whites of the eggs, stirring 



CAKE. 171 

hard all the time until a stiff cream or foam. Then add ' 
a half teaspoonful of citric acid, and flavor to taste with 
vanilla. Spread between each layer, and on the top. . 

Hickory Nut Cake. No. i. ' 

2 cups of sugar. 

5^ cup of butter. 

\l cup sweet milk. 

25^ cups flour. 

I coffee cup of hickory nuts. 

% teaspoonful soda. 

I teaspoonful cream tartar. 

Whites of 3 eggs. r 

Hickory Nut Cake. No. 2. 

1 % cups of sugar. \r ' " 
% cup of butter. - ^ 

2 cups of flour. 

}i cup sweet milk. 
2 eggs. 

I % teaspoonf uls baking powder. 
I cup hickory nuts, chopped. ' 

If soda and cream tartar are used, take i teaspoonful 
cream tartar, and }i teaspoonful of soda. • 

" One, Two, Three, Four" Cake. 

1 cup of butter. 

2 cups of sugai;, 

3 cups of flour. A 

4 eggs. / * ^^ 

J^ cup of milk. ^ , 

2 teaspoonfuls baking powder. " ' 

A little vinilla. 

B|^he sugar and butter to a cream, then add the eggs, 
welwiRaten, then the flour-into which the baking powder 
has been sifted, then the milk, and last the flavoring. ^ 



"1 

Almond Cakb. 

I cup of butter, 
, 2 cups of sugar. 

2^ups of flour. 

6 eggs. 

A little baking powder. 
• I teaspoonful almond extract. 

Split almonds in halves and put over the top. Bake b 
shallow tins. 

Coffee Cake. 

I cup of sugar. 
' 2 cups of flour. 

}i cup butter. 

yi cup molasses. 

}^ cup cold coffee. 

1 cup raisins seeded. 

2 eggs. 

I teaspoonful cinnamon. 
' I te,aspoonful mace. 
I teaspoonful cloves. 

I teaspoonful soda, dissolved in the coffee. 
Mix together, adding the flour last 

Pound Cake. 

I pound of sugar. 

^ pound butter, worked free from salt. ^ 

I pound flour, sifted. 

8 eggs. 

Beat the sugar and butter to a cream, and add the yolks 
well beaten. Beat the whites to a stiff froth, and add 
them in alt^^ate spoonfuls with the flour. Beat a long 
time and balft in round basins. It should be three days 
old before cutting. A glass of wine or brandy improves 
it. Flavor or not as you please. 

Every Day Fruit Cake. 

I cup of sour milk. ' 

I cup of butter. ^ 



CAK«. 173 

2 cups of sugar. 

4 cups of flour. 

4 eggs. 

2 cup&of raisins. 

z teaspoonful soda. 

Salt, cinnamon, cloves, citron, and wine or brandy to 
taste. 

Beat butter and sugar to a cream; then add the milk, 
spices, and raisins, after stirring these together, add the 
yolks of eggs well beaten. Beat the whites to a froth, and 
stir in with the flour. ^ Dissolve the soda in a little water 
and add it last. This will make two .loaves. 

Wedding Cake. 

I pound of powdered sugar. , 

I pound of butter. 

1 pound of flour. 

12 eggs. / 

z pound of currants, well washed and dredged, 
z pound of raisins, seeded and chopped. 
J5 pound of citron, cut into slips, 
z tablespoonful cinnamon. 

2 tcaspoonfuls nutmeg, 
z teaspoonful cloves. 

z wineglass of boiled cider. | 

Cream the butter and sugar, then add the yolks "of the 
eggs well beaten, and stir well together; then put in half 
of the flour. The spice should come next, then the 
whipped whites stirred in alternately with the rest of the 
flour; lastly the cider. This is sufficient for two large 
cakes. Line deep tins with well buttered paper, and bake 
at least two hours. The icing should be laid on stiff and 
thickly. Be sure your cake is entirely done before taking 
from the oven. 

Fruit Cake. - 

z'pound powdered sugar, 
z pound of flour. 



174 CAKB. 

5^ pound of butter. 

7 eggs. 

J^ pound currants, picked over and dredged, 

^ pound of raisins, seeded and chopped, then dredged. 

^ pound citron, cut into slips. 

X teaspoonful of nutmeg. 

I teaspoonful cinnamon. 

X glass of boiled cider. 
' Beat the sugar and butter to a cream; add the yolks 
well beaten, then the spice and the whipped whites alter- 
nately with the flour; fruit and branny last. 

Farmer's Fruit Cake. 

8 cups dried apples. 
8 cups molasses. 

a eggs. 

I cup of butter. 

1 teaspoonful each of cloves, cinnamon and nutmeg. 
3J4 cups of flour, 

X teaspoonful of soda. ' 

Soak the apples over night in cold water, then chop 
them the size of raisins; put them in the molasses and 
simmer slowly two hours. Add the other ingredients, mix 
well and bake. 

Fruit and Nut Cake. 

4 cups of flour. 

2 cups of sugar, 
I cup of butter. 

3 eggs, whites and yolks separated. 
I cup cold water, 

I coffee cup full of hickory nut kernels. 
^ pound raisins, seeded, chopi^d and dredged with 
flour. 

1 teaspoonful soda, dissolved in hot water. 

2 teaspoonfuls cream tartar, sifted in the flour. 

X teaspoonful mixed nutmeg and cinnamon. ' ' 
Rub butter and sugar together to a smooth cream; put 



CAKE. 175 

in the yolks, then the water, spice, soda; next the whites 
and flour. The fruit and nuts, stirred together and 
dredged, should go in last. Mix thoroughly and bake in 
two loaares. 

Sponge Cake. No. i. 

I teacup powdered sugar. 

3 eggs. ' 

J^ teaspoonful cream tartar. 

J^ teaspoonful soda. 
/ I teacupful flour. 1 

Flavor with lemon, half the juice and half the rind of 
one. 

Bake twenty minutes in shallow tins. 

Sponge Cake. No. a, 

3 eggs. 

1 ^ cups sugar, 

2 even cups sifted flour. 

1 teaspoonful cream tartar. 
^ teaspoonful soda. 

% cup cold water. 

Juice of half a lemon. 

A little salt. 

Beat eggs altogether, then add one cup of flour with 
the cream tartar mixed in it. Beat again, then add the 
soda in the water, then the lemon, and lastly one cup of 
flour. Stir and bake quickly. ' 

Plain Cake. 

3 eggs. 

2 cups of sugar. 
J4 cup of butter. 

^ cup of sweet milk. 

I teaspoonful cream tartar. • 

^ teaspoonful soda. 

Flavor with lemon or vanilla. 

Flour enough to make it of proper consisteiiqr. 



176 ' , OAKB.^ 

COCOANUT GaKB. 

2^ggs. 

1 cup.of sugar. 

1 cup of milk. , 
. i cup of butter. 

2 cups of flour. 

2 heaping teaspoonfuls baking powder. 
' Bake in jelly cake tins. 

Frosting. 

Whites of 2 eggs. 

8 teaspoonfuls sugar. 

Flavor to taste. 

Spread each cake with a thin layer of frosting, 
sprinkled with prepared cocoanut, and frost the top, 
which should bo thickly sprinkled with the cocoanut. 
Myrtle's Cake. 

5 eggs, beaten light and yolks strained. ' 

8 cups of powdered sugar. 

1 cup of butter creamed with the sugar. 

1 cup sweet milk, 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder. 

4 cups of sifted flour. 

Juice of 1 lemon, and half the grated peel. 

A little nutmeg. 

Bake in two loavea Cover with lemon frosting. 
Spice Cake. 

'4 eggs. 

1 cup of butter. 

2 cups of brown sugar. 
1 cup ot- sweet milk, 

8 cups of flour. 
1 nutmeg. 

1 teaspoonful of cloves. 

2 teaspoonfuls of cinnamon. 

1\ teaspoonfuls of baking powder, or 

1^ teaspoonful of soda and 1 teaspoonful cream tartar. 



CAKS. 177 

White Caks. 

a cups of sugar. : >^^£ '^ 

I cup of butter. "' ^ 

3 cups of flour. 

Whites of 4 eggs. 

I even teaspoonful of soda. 

I cup sour cream. 

Beat butter and sugar to a cream; add the eggs well 
beaten, stir in the flour, and then the soda dissolved and 
strained; lastly add the cream. Bake immediately. 

Currant Cakb. 

1 cup of butter. - "^ 

2 cups of powdered sugar. ' 

3 cups of sifted flour. 

4 eggs. 

% cup sweet milk. ^ ' 

^ pound currants, washed, dried and dredged. 
}i grated nutmeg. • 

Beat the sugar and butter to a cream. Put the foiil 
in last. Bake in cups or small pans. 

Jelly Caks. 

I cup of sugar. ♦ ., . ; 

I cup of flour. ^Y 

3 eggs. , . ■ I ,jS 

Butter the size of an egg. * 

I teaspoonful cream tartar, sifted in the flour. • 
^ teaspoonful soda, dissolved in a tablespoonful of 

milk. 
Bake in jelly cake tins^ and when cold spread willi 

fruit jelly. 1 

Marble Cake. No. i« ^ v \ 

1 cup butter. 

2 cups powdered sugar. 

3 cups flour. 
a eggs. 

«3 , ,^ . ^ "... . I 



178 . CAKB. 

I cup sweet milk. 

^ teaspoonful soda. 

I teaspoonful cream tartar, sifted with the flour. 

After the cake is mixed take out about a teacupful of 
the batter, and stir into this a great spoonful of grated 
chocolate, wet with a scant tablespoonful of milk. Fill 
your tin about an inch deep with the yellow batter, and 
drop upon this, in two or three places, a spoonful of the 
dark mixture. Give to^the brown spots a slight stir with 
the tip of your spoon, spreading it in broken circles upon 
the lighter surface. Pour in more yellow batter, then 
drop in the brown as before, proceeding in this order, un- 
til all is used up. 

Marble Cake. No. 2. 

I }^ cups of white sugar. 
^ cup of butter. 
}i cup of sweet milk. 
* yi teaspoonful soda dissolved in the mUk. 
I teaspoonful cream tartar mixed with the flour, 
aj^xups of flour. 

Whites of 4 eggs beat to a stiff froth. 
Flavor with lemon. 

For the Dark Cake^ take 

I cup of nice coffee sugar. 

1 tablespoonful of molasses. 
^ cup of butter. 

% cup of sour milk. 

^ teaspoonful soda dissolved in the milk. 

2 % cups of flour. 

Yolks of 4 eggs, well beaten. 

I teaspoonful of clove. 

A little allspice, cinna;non and nutmeg. • 

Put a layer of the light cake in your pan, and mix in 
some of the dark, then more of the light, and so on until 
your pan is a little more than half full. 



CAKE. 179 

, Corn Starch Cake. 

^4 cup of butter. 

2 cups of sugar. 

Whites of 3 eggs well beaten. 

1 cup of milk. 
Juice of J^ lemon. 

2 cups sifted flour. 

2 teaspoonfuls cream tartar in the Hour. 

I teaspoonful soda. 

I cup cornstarch dissqlved in the milk. 

Beat sugar and butter to a cream; then add the other 
ingredients, and lastly the cornstarch. Bake immediately 
in a moderate oven. One tablespoonful of baking powder 
can be used instead of soda and cream tartar. 

Pork Cake. 

I pound salt pork, chopped fine. 

1 pint boiling water poured oh the pork. 

2 cups of sugar. 

I cup of molasses. 

I tablespoonful of cloves. 

I tablespoonful cinnamon. 

1 pound of raisins. 

2 teaspoonfuls saleratus. 

Flour enough to make it rather thick but not too stiff. 
Bake in two cakes. 

Snow Drift Cake. 

2 cups powdered sugar. 

I heaping cup sifted flour. 

Whites of 6 eggs, whipped stiff. 

Juice of I lemon and half the grated peel. 
^ A little salt. 

Wliip the eggs stiff, beat in the sugar, lemon, salt, and 
finally the flour. Stir in very lightly and quickly and bake 
at once in two loaves. Or, it may be baked as jelly cake, 
and spread with this 



l8o CAKX. 

Filling. 

Whites of 3 eggs. 
I heaping cup of powdered sugar. 
Juice of I orange and half the peel. 
Juice of ^ lemon. 

Whip to a good meringue and put between the layerii 
adding more sugar for the frosting on the top, « 

Tea Caks. 

I % cups of white sugar. 
}^ cup of butter. 
j4 cup of milk. 
3 eggs. 

3 cups of flour. 
I teaspoonful of soda. 
% teaspoonfuls of cream tartar. Flavoring. 
. Mix according to previous directions, and bake quickly. 

Raspberry Rolls. 

3 eggs. 

I cup of white sugar. 

I cup of flour. 

I teaspoonful cream tartar. 

yi teaspoonful soda. 

Flavor with lemon. 

Beat the eggs, yolks and whites together, for one 6r two 
minutes; then add the sugar, and beat a few minutes more, 
next the flour with the cream tartar mixed in it Dissolve 
the soda in as little hot water as possible, and stir in thor- 
6ughl^; add the flavoring, and beat well for a few minutes. 
Bake in two rather wide, shallow tins. When done turn 
the cake upon a sieve, and, while warm, spread a little 
raspberry or strawberry jam over it; roll up the cake and 
sift sugar over; This should be done carefully. Cut in 
slices, when cold. 

Icing. No. i. 



Whites of a eggs.. 

% pound powdered white sugar. 



\ 



CAKE. l8l 

Lemon, vanilla, or other flavoring. 

Break the whites into a broad, clean, cool dish. Throw 
a small handful of sugar upon them, and whip it in with 
long, even strokes'of the beater. In a few mmutes throw 
in more sugar, and keep doing so, until it is all used up. 
Beat steadily, always with a regular, sweeping movement, 
until the icing is of a smooth, fine, and firm texture. 
Half an hour's beating should be sufficient, if done well. 
If not stiff enough, put in more sugar. If seasoned with 
lemon juice, allow, in measuring your sugar, for the ad- 
ditional liquid. Lemon juice or tartaric acid whitens the 
icing. .Use at least a quarter of a pound of sugar for each 
e^g. In spreading^ the icing, use a broad-bladed knife, 
dipped in cold water. It is better to dry it in a sunny win- 
dow, where no dust can reach it; but it may be set in a 
moderate oven for two or three minutes. Icing may be 
colored yellow, by putting the grated peel of a lemon or 
orange in a thin muslin bag, straining a little juice through 
it, and squeezing it hard into the egg and sugar. Straw- 
berry juice colors a pretty pink, as does also cranberry 
syrup. * 

Icing. No. 2. 

20 tcaspoonfuls powdered sugar. 

Whites of 2 eggs. ' 

}i teaspoonful cornstarch. 

Beat the whites until they will adhere to the plate when 
turned up; then add sugar and cornstarch. Rub the cake 
when warm, with a little flour, and* the icing will remain 
in place better. Many persons prefer this way of mak-' y 
ing icing, but the directions given in recipe No. i. kre 
recommended as being preferable. J' , 

Rich Cookies. 

1 teacupful of butter. 

2 teacupfuls of sugar. 

2 eggs. . f 

% teaspoonful of soda. 

I teaspoonful of cream tartar. /% 

■ ■ . %^- 



:A 



l8a CAKE. 

Work the butter and sugar together. Beat the eggs 
separately and stir in, first the yolk, and then the white. 
Mix the cream tartar with the flour, and dissolve the soda 
in a very little hot water. Mix in a little flour before the 
soda is put in, and then add flour enough to knead soft. 
Spread granulated sugar on the paste board, and roll the 
dough on it, instead of flour, and after it is rolled thin 
enough sift sugar over the dough and pass the rolling-pin 
lightly over. Be as quick as possible in getting the cakes 
into the oven after the cream tartar and flour are added ; 
' bake quickly on buttered papers in the pans. If there 
is danger of scorching, cover with papers. Let them 
cool a little, and then lift the paper with the cakes; 
do not remove the cakes from the paper until they are 
cool 

Cookies. 

a coffee cups of coffee sugar. 
I coffee cup of butter. 
I coffee cup of sour milk.' 
• 2 eggs. 

I teaspoonful saleratus. 

Spice, or seeds, as you pleas^ 

Flour to make b^tte^ustjtifi enough to be moulded. 

*^' Ammonia Cookies. 

I cup of butter. 
- 2 cups of sugar. 
; : a eggs. ' 

. 5^ pmt of sweet milk. 

5^ ounce of carbonate of ammonia, dissolved over 
night in the milk; cover tight. Mix soft, and roll thin. 

' , CocoANUT Drops. 

Grate a cocoanut and weigh it, then add half the weight 
of powdered sugar, and the white of one egg cut to a stiff 
froth. Stir the mgredients together, then drop the mix- 
ture with a dessert spoon uponrbuttered white paper, and 
^ ' sift sugar over them. Bake in a slow oven fifteen minutes. 



* CAKE. 183 

Ring Jumbles. 

I pound of butter. 

I pound of sugar. 

4 eggs. 

Flour enough to make a soft dough. 

Small wine-glass of tose-water. 

Cream the butter and sugar, add the beaten yolks, then 
the rose-water, next half the flour, lastly the whites, stirred 
In very lightly, alternately with the remaining flour. 
Have a broad and shallow pan ready, lined on the bottom 
with buttered paper. With a tablespoon form regular 
rings of the dough upon this, leaving a hole in the center 
of each. Bake quickly, and sift fine sugar over them as 
soon as they are done. Lemon or vanilla may be substi- 
tuted for the rose-water. 

Macaroons. 

}i pound of sweet almonds. 

Whites of 3 eggs. 

J^ pound of powdered sugar. 

Prepare the almonds th^day before you niake the cakes 
by blanching them in b6iUj|g' water, strippi^ off the skins 
and pounding them, when p,ejile9^3^5ia,va1few at a time, 
and adding from time to time a iittlelfb^e-water, or orang^^^;^ 
flower water. Beat the eggs very stiff and stir in the sugar. 7 
Mix well, and then add the almonds. Drop with a tea^-^ ' 
spoon upon buttered tin sheets, sift fine sugar over, and 
bake in a slack oven. 



Whites of 3 eggs. 

5 tablespoonfuls of finest white sugar. 

Flavor with lemon. 

Beat the eggs to a stiff froth, then add the sugar and 
lemon. Have ready a nice pan, buttered, in which lay 
white paper, and drop them on it with a teaspoon, and 
sift sugar over them. Bake in a slow oven half an hour. 
This measure will make a cake-basket full. . ! 



>84 CAUL 

Sugar Gingxrbriad. 

1 cup butter. * 
a cups sugar. 

^ cup sour milk. 

2 eggs. 

I small teaspoonful soda. 
A little ginger. 
^ Flour to make a stiff batter; bake as soon as mixed. 

Hard Gingerbread. 

^ cup of shortening. 

I cup of molasses. 

I cup of sugar. 

^ cup hot water. 

I teaspoonful of salt 

I tablespoonful of ginger. 
/ A piece of alum, the size of a hazelnut, dissolved in 
the water. 
, A dessert spoonful of soda^ dissolved in the molasses. 

Mix the ingredients, and add flour enough to make a 
stiff batter; it must not be quite stiff enough. to roll out. 
Put it in square pans, pat it smooth, and mark it in strips. 

Soft Gingerbread. 

i cup of butter. 
1 cup of sugar. 
• t cup of molasses. 
I r.up sour or buttermilk. 
I teaspoonful of soda dissolved in boiling water. 
I teaspoonful of cinnamon. 
I tablespoonful of ginger. 

« eggs. 
^\ Enough flour to make it as thick as the batter for cup 
cike^ add the flo^r, working it in, gradually; it will take 
nearlv five cups. Stir the butter, sugar,* molasses, and 
spice together to a light cream, «et them on the stove un- 
til slightly warmed; add the milk to the*warmed mixture, 



CAKE. 185 

then the eggs (beaten light), the soda, and lastly the flour. 
Beat very hard ten minutes, and bake at once. 

Sponge Gingerbread. (Without Eggs.) 

5 cups of flour. 

4 heaping tablespoonful of butter. 

I cup of molasses. 

I cup of sugar. 

1 cup of milk (sour is best). 

2 teaspoonfuls saleratus, dissolved in hot water 
2 teaspoonfuls ginger. 

I teaspoonful of cinnamon. 

Mix the molasses, sugar, Ijutter, and spice together; 
warm them slightly, and beat until they are several de- 
grees lighter than when you began. Add the milk, then 
the soda, and when all are mixed well, put in the flour. 
Beat hard five minutes, and bake in a broad shallow pan. 

. Ginger Snaps. No. i. 

I cup of brown sugar. 
I cup of molasses. 
I cup of butter. 

1 teaspoonful of soda. 

2 teaspoonfuls of ginger. 

Boil the sugar, molasses and butter together, then add 
the soda and ginger while warm. Add flour enough to 
mix stiff; and toll very thin:^' , 

Ginger SnAs. No. 2. "^ 

I large cup butter and lard mixed. 
I coffee cup sugar. 
I cup of molasses. 
% cup of water -. 
I tablespponfjfljTof ginger. \ * 

I teaspoonful of soda dissolved in hot water* 
Flour for pretty stiff dough. 
Roll out thin, and bake quickly. 
«4 / . 



l86 CAKB. 

Brbakfast Cookixs. 

I cup of sugar. 
I cup of molasses. 
% cup of butter. 
yi cup of lard. 
I egg. 

4 tablespoonfuls warm water. 
4 even teaspoonfuls of soda, dissolved in the water. 
I even teaspoonful of ginger. 
I even teaspoonful of grated alunu 
Flour. enough to make batter just stiff enough to be 
moulded. 

Doughnuts. No. i. • 

I cup of sour milk. 

I ^ cups of sugar; 

I teaspoonful soda. 

I egg. 

1 tablespoonful melted lard. 

A little salt. 

Beat the eggs, and mix ^nth sugar and lard. Dissolve 
the soda in the milk, and s.ir into the above mixture as 
rapidly as possible, stirring ia floiir at the same time. 

Knead soft. 

Doughnuts. {Very Nice.) No. a. 

,1 cup white sugar (scant). 

a eggs. 

I tablespoonful of ^ream, or small piece of butter 
melted, the size of a walnut. 

I cup of milk. 

a teaspoonfuls of baking powder. 

Beat the eggs and sugar together one-half hour, before 
putting in the flour; this beating will make them very 
white. Add flour to make them about the same consist- 
ency of cookies. 



CAKS. 187 . 

Raised Doughnuts. 

1 pint of milk. 

J^ teacupful of yeast. 

2 teacupfuls of sugar. 
% teacupful of lard. 
2 eggs. 

1 teaspoonful of soda. 
Nutmeg or cinnamon to taste. 

Put yeast in the milk, stir^in the flour, and let it rise 
over night; in the morning add the other ingredients; 
work in more flour, and let it rise very light. Fry in hot 
lard. 

Crullers. No. i. 

2 cups of sugar. 

1 cup of butter. 

2 eggs. 

2 cups sour milk. 

I teaspoonful soda dissolved in hot water. 
Flour to roll out tolerably stiff. Roll thin, cut into 
small cakes, and fry in a plenty of hot lard. 



SWEET-MEAT MAXIMS. 



Cake without butter should never be beaten, as it is 
sure to make it tough an'U leathery. Put the materials 
together as lightly as possible, stirring it on the top, not 
from the bottom. Remember this in sponge cake, and 
save yourself trouble. 

To keep fruit cake, change it occasionally from a dry to 
a damp and from a damp to a dry place. 

As a rule, egp having a dark shell beat up nicer than 
those with a light shell. 

AH kinds of cake are better foi having the whites and 
yolks beaten separately. 

It is hard to whip whites stiff in a warm room. 

Stir butter and sugar to a cream. . 

Never use fresh and old milk in the same cake. 

Remember soda will not take the place of eggs. 

A cake should not be moved while baking. 

Cake is best kept in a tight can or jar. 

Do not cut more at a time than you expect to use. 

None but the best butter will do in pastry. 

In making pastry everything should be kept as cool aj 
possible. 

If the shortening is soft, the crust will be heavy and 
solid. 

Good pastry has no resemblance to putty or leather. 

" Pork fat and pies kill more people yearly in the Uni- 
ted States than do liquor and tobacco." 

Batter puddings and custards should be baked as soon 
as mixed. 

For baked puddings and custards beat the eggs but 
litUe. 



MEASURES. « 189 

A Dover egg beater is worth a good many times its 
cost to a cake or pastry cook. 

Flour is equal to cornstarch for blanc-mange. 

A little cream tartar will keep jellies and rich preserves 
from candying. 

To boil a pudding takes twice as long as to bake it 

Creams and custards which are to be frozen should 
have one-third more sugar than those which are not to be 
frozen. 

Do not cook a dish of custard on v the stove, but in a 
dish of boiling water. 

To retain the color of fruit in glass cans,, wrap them 
in something to exdude the light 



MEASURES. 

One common sized tumbler equals half a pint- or two 
gills. 

A quart of sifted flour, heaped, a quart of sifted sugar, 
and a quart of softened butter, each weigh about a pound, 
and so nearly that measuring is as good as weighing, 

Water is heavier, and a pint of water weighs nearly a 
pound. 

Ten eggs weigh about a pound. 

A common sized wine glass holds half a gilL 

Four ordinary teacups, of liquid are equtd to one quart. 



« Axons' Foqol 

ITi'tes of 11 er^s. 

rr r==:-lcrfisl of cnr^Iarcd s=^v,^ 

1 tiiiiblcrf j; of izzr^ sined. 

I icasprDoi*-! of crraT t^nsr. 

I icispDcaf^ tm::'/-X- 

Beax rbe cg^ sci^* o« a p^artcn «Si sofar, x^faea 
Co=r, wh>r^ Bust be sned focir i:t:«s a»i ttica neiES- 
mrcd. A5i crcxa tamr. a=d sifi jet^s: a5d itie 
waxLIa bat- LSo «?« sr-c bei:i=ig sxiii par ixiD ibe 
pxss lo b&kc B::££ fcrrj z^ix-ies ix a i» r>drTaic 
OTcm. asd trr v.ik a s:t2v; if loo scf:, iet ii rc^si^aa 
liiilc Ir^s^rrl r=rt =ps.3c co-ira. a»i ict ir coal aa ite 
t^ Xrc i:a sh>^ld aoc be greased ax alL 

Mks. BriLxmjLX^s Fu Cakx. 

1 * f ^^, sifted. 
4 ,• baner- 
♦ • sveei ci!k 
4^ • cora starch 

a icasrocafuls bi&kifi^ pr^wdcr, Kixed anA tbe 
floor v:;.:cs of 4 e^^ areJ tksiieai a«i sirred :a 1b&. 
Biike r^e cakes ia 3 roc&d lias Ijr ibe lajcn^ 



J poaad of igs^ ci^pped £] 

1 COD sotsar^ 

5 tat>Iespo(>a^als of cx>!d 

Bnag ibe vater xad ssigar h> a bccl aiMi »o 
to mike a syra^ : arbea cocl poor orer liac figs^ 

Spread ibc i^-iag be ta c g ji lije iarets of ca^e: liaf 
wLa auke ito lajen of £^ asd three lajers of < 



ADDITIONAL RECIPES. I9I 



192 

J 



^ ADDITION At RECIPES. 



193 



191- ADDITIONAL RECIPES. f:"-.^^^^^ ^M.^:-^< ^" 



ADDITIONAL RECIPES, 155 



PIES. 



\ 



The flour should be sifted. Lard can be mixed with 
butter for shortening; use none but good butter for pastry; 
but which ever you use rub it into the flour; do not rub 
out every lump, the less the hands are used, the better. . 
Add cola water in winter, ice- water iii summer. If lard 
is. used, salt must be added. Stir the mixture quickly 
with a knife, after the water is added. Do not mould it, 
as it makes it tough. The thickness of the crust depends 
on the filling. If juicy fruit is used, such as cherries, 
plums and berries, the crust should be thicker than foi 
apple, peach and pumpkin. In making pies from juicy 
fruit, use deep dishes. Sprinkle a little flour in such pies 
to absorb the juice. Most pies require an hour to cook. 
Much depends on the kind of oven used. 

Pre Crust. No. i. 

2}i cups of flour. 
^ cup of butter. 

J^ cup of lard. ^ 

J^ cup of water. 
A little salt. 

Mix with a sAarp knife; do not use the hand. The 
above is sufficient for two pies. 

Pie Crust. No. 2. 

To 1 quart flour, take 
I cup butter or lard. 
, If lard is used, salt must be added. Stir or chop the 
flour and butter together. Soften this with ice water, if in 



V 



PIES. 107 

summer, and cold water in winter. Prepare the lower 
crust and fill with whatever filling you may use. Take ' 
out from the crust as much as you may need for the up- 
;per crust. Roll the top crust out, and spread evenly over 
it a small quantity of butter, and dredge well with flour, t 
Cut the air holes and cover the pie. Take it in your left 
hand, hold it slightly inclined, and quickly' pour over it 
enough cold water to nearly wash off the flour. The 
butter and the flour which remain will make a more flaky 
crust than by the old fashioned way of rolling the crust 
repeatedly. 

French Puff-Paste. 

I pound of flour. 
^ pound of butter. 

1 egg; the yolk only. 
Ice water. 

Chop half the butter into the flour; stir the beaten e^g 
into half a cup of ice water, and work the flour into a stiff 
dough; roll out thin; baste with one-third the remaning 
butter, fold closely, roll out again, and so on until the .■ 
butter is used up. Roll very thin, and set the last folded 
roll in a very cold place ten or fifteen minutes before mak- ' 
ing out the crust. Wash with beaten egg while hot. This 
paste is very nice for fruit pies, and oyster /<£//j, ^ , 

Mince Pies.^ 

2 pounds lean fresh beef, boiled, and, when cold, 
chopped fine. " 

5^ pound beef suet, chopped very fine. 
4 pounds of apples, pared and chopped. ' 

I ^ pounds of raisins. 
I pound of currants, well washed. 
5^ pound citron, shaved fine. 

Cinnamon, nutmeg, mace, cloves, allspice, sugar and 
fialt to taste. 

1 pint boiled cider, or syrup of canned fruit. 

Mix thoroughly using enough of the liquo in which' 



198 TIES. 

the meat was boQed, to moisten it Heat all together, 
and when done, pour in a stone jar. Keep dosely cov- 
ered in a cool, diy place. 

Mock Mincx Pis. 

4 large crackers, rolled fine. 

% cup sugar. 

^ cup molasses. 

I cup water (more if necessary). 

^ cup vinegar. 

I cup chopped raisins. ; 

}i cup currants. . 

^ cup butter. 

Spices and salt to taste. 

' . Apple Pie. No. i. 

Pare, core and slice, ripe, tart, winter apples; line your 
dish with a good crust, put in a layer of fruit, then sprinkle 
light brown sugar thickly over it, lay on more apples, and 
so on until the dish is well filled. Lay on two or three 
thin shavinp of butter, and add about two spoonfuls of 
water. Flavor to taste. Cover with crust immediately, 
as the under crust will be clammy if it is not put directly 
in the oven. When done, sift powdered sugar over the 
top before sending to the table. 

Apple Pie. No. 2. 

Stew green^ or ripe apples, after they have been pared 
and cored. Mash to a smooth mass, sweeten to taste, and 
while hot, stir in a teaspoonful of butter to each pie. 
Season with nutmeg. When . cool, fill your crust, and 
' either cross-bar the top with strips of paste, or bake with- 
out a cover. Eat cold, with powdered sugar strewed over 
it 



PISS. 199 

Apple Custard Pul 

3 cups stewed apples. 

4 eggs. 

I quart milk. 

Mash the apple fine and make very sweet Beat the 
yolks light, and mix well with the apple. Season with 
nutmeg, stir the milk in gradually. Lastly add the whites, 
well beaten. Fill the crust and bake without cover. 

Cherry Pie. 

Line the dish with a good crust, and fill with ripe cher* 
ries, spread sugar ove( them, enough to sweeten. Sprinkle 
a little flour over, cover and bake. Eat cold, with sugar 
sifted over the top. 

Blackberry, Raspberry and Plum Pies, 
Axe made in the same manner. 

Green Currants and Gooseberries. 

These require a great deal of sugar, at least two-thirds > 
as much in measure as of fruit. Currant pies should be 
made in a deep plate, and with an upper crust. 

Gooseberries should be stewed like cranberries, sweet- 
ened to suit the taste, and laid upon the under crust, with 
strips placed diagonally across the top. 

Rhubarb Pie. 

Skin the stalks, and cut in lengths of half an inch; fill . 
the crust with the raw fruit, and sprinkle liberally with 
sugar. Cover and bake nearly three-quarters of an hour. 
Brush with egg while hot, and return to the oven to glaze, 
if you wish. It should be eaten cold, like all fruit pies. 

If hot water in which a teaspoonful of soda has jbeen 
dissolved is poured over the rhubard and allowed to stand 
a few minutes, it will extract a great deal of its acid. ' 



800 PIS8. 

Sweet Potato Pie. 

, I pound mealy sweet potatoes. The firm, yellow ones 
are best. 

% cup butter. 

5^ cup white sugar. 

I tablespoonful cinnamon. 

I teaspoonful nutmeg. 
' 4 eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately. 
. I lemon, juice and rind, and glass of boiled cider. 

Parboil the potatoes, and grate them when quite cold. 
They will be sticky and heavy, if grated hot. Cream the 
sugar and butter; add the yolk, the spice and lemon; beat 
the potato in by degrees, and until all is light; then the 
brandy, and stir in the whites. Bake in dishes lined with 
good paste, without cover. Cool before eating. 

CocoANUT Pie. 

I quart of new milk. 
3 eggs.* 

1 tablespoonful of butter. 

2 tablespoonfuls of sugar. 

I pint of grated cocoanut, whiqh should be fresh. 
Da t; like custard pie. 

Custard Pie. 

i quart milk. 

5 eggs (u plain, 3). 

5 tablespoonfuls sugar. 
Flavor with lemon. 

VV little salt. ^ ^ 

Line your plate with pastry, pour in the custard and 
bake half an hour. 

Chocolate Custard Pie. 

I quarter-cake of Baker's chocolate, grated. 
i' pint of boiling water. 

6 eggs. 



PIES. 20I 

1 quart milk. 

}^ cup white sugar. 

2 teaspoonfuls vanilla. 

Dissolve the chocolate in a very little milk, stir into the 
boiling water, and boil three minutes. When nearly cold, 
beat up the yolks of all the eggs, and the whites of three. 
Stir this mixture into the milk, season/and pour into shells 
of good paste. When the custard is " set," but not more 
than half done, spread over the whites, whipped to a froth, 
with two tablespoon fuls of sugar. These custards maybe 
baked without paste, in a pudding-dish, or cups set in 
boiling water. 

Corn Starch Pie. 

3 eggs. . 

ij^ pints of milk. 

3 tablespoon fuls white sugar. 

I tablespoonful cornstarch. 

I teaspoonful essence bitter almonds or vanilla. 

Boil the milk, stir in the cornstarch, wet in a little cold 
milk, and boil one minute. When nearly cold, stir in the . 
sugar, the yolks of all the eggs, and the whites of two; 
flavor, and pour into your paste. Whip the reniaining 
whites to a meringue, with two tablespoonfuls white sugar, 
and a teaspoonful of vanilla. When the custard is just 
** set,** draw your pies to the edge of the oven to spread 
this over them. Do it quickly, else the custard will fall 
by exposure to the air. 

Cranberry Pie. 

Take the sauce as prepared to cat with meat; grate^a 
little nutmeg over it, put three or four thin shavmgs of 
butter on it, and then lay on the upper ctust. Perhaps it 
may be necessary to add more sugar. Instead of an up- 
per crust you can lay very narrow strips across, diagonally. 

Cream Pie. 

1 pint milk. 

2 tablespoonfuls of corn starch. 



309 ' • pns. 

' a eggs (beaten well). 
I cup of sugar. > 
A little salt. 
. Juice of I lemon. 

The crust should be previously baked. Boil nearly the 
pint of milky beat the com starch in the remainder of the 
milk; and stir it in to the boiled milk; remove from th^ 
stove. To this add the other ingredients, and fill the paste. 
Then take the white of an egg well whipped, sweeten and 
spread on the top, and put in the oven to brown a little. 
• 

Lemon Pik. No, i. 

I tablespoonful com starch. 

I cup of sugar. 

I cup of cold water. 

3 eggs. 

Juice and pulp of i lemon. 

A little salt. 

Cook the com starch In the water; when cold, add the 
yolks of the eggs, sugar, lemon and salt. Beat the whites 
of the eggs to a froth, and stir them in carefully just be- 
fore putting in the oven. 

Lemon Pie. ( JVM two crusts.) No. 2. 

I cup sugar. 
. I lemon. 

1 egg- 
Beat the sugar and egg together; then add the lemon 

, which has been peeled and sliced. Spread a small plate 
with paste and cover. It needs a richer paste than other 
. pies. 

Lemon Pie. ( With Frosting.) No. 3. 

Grated rind and juice of 2 lemons. - 

2 cups sugar. 

3 eggs. 

A piece of butter as large as^an egg. 
2 tablespoonf uls of com starch. 




Have ready two cups of boiling water in a saucepan^ 
and stir into it the corn starch (which h^ been rubbed 
smooth in cold water) until it looks clelr. Then pour 
into a dish, and add the sugar and butter. When it be* 
comes nearly cool, add the yolks of the three eggs and 
one of the whites, beaten together, the lemons, and bake 
in two squash pie plates of medium size, lined with a del- 
icate crust. Beat up the two whites with two spoonfuls of 
sugar very stiff; spread this over the pies after they are 
baked; sprinkle with sugar, and brown a few moments in 
the oven. • 

Lemon Pis. No. 4. 

3 lemons, the juice and grated peeL 
3 crackers (grated). 
. 2 cups of sugar. 

3 eggs. 

I cup cold water. « 

This is sufficient for two pies. 

Peach Pie. 

Peel, stone and slice the peaches. Line a pie plate with 
a good crust, and lay in your fruif, sprinkling sugar liber- 
ally over them in proportion to their sweetness. Very 
ripe peaches require comparatively little. Allow three 
peach kernels, chopped fine, to eiach pie; pour in a very 
little water, and bake with an upper crust, or with crosS' 
bars of paste over the top. If the peaches have been 
dried, stew in a little water. ^ 

Orange Pie. O 

4 eggs. 

1 cup of white sugar. 

2 tablespoonfuls butter. 

I yi oranges, juice and half the grated rind. 
Juice of I lemon. 
Nutmeg to taste. 

Cream the butter and sugar, beating in the orange and 
lemon until very light; add the beaten yolks, fill two pas* 



204 • PIES. 

try shells and bake. Beat the whites stiff with two table- 
spoonfuls of powdered sugar, and when the pies are done, 
spread over them, returning to the oven for three or four 
minutes. 

Strawberry Pie. 

Cap and pick over the berries, arrange rn layers, sprinkle 
wit^ a good coating of sugar. P'ill the plate very full, as 
strawberries slirink very much in cooking. Cover with 
crust and bake. 

Huckleberry pie is made in the same way. 

Pumpkin Pie. 

I pint of pumpkin, stewed and strained. 
I quart of milk. 

1 cup sugar. 

2 eggs. 

A little salt. 

Flavor with ginger and allspice, or cinnamon and nut-^^ 
meg, as you prefer. The above mixture will make tw6 
pies. 

Squash pies may be made in the same way, by using less 
squash and more eggs. * 

TARTLETTS. 
Orange Tartletts. 

2 fine Havana oranges, juice of both, and grated peel 
of one. 

5^ cup of sugar, J^ cup if the oranges are very sweet. 

I tablespoonful of butter. 

^ lemon, juice only, to wet i teaspoonful corn starch. 

Beat all well together, and bake in tartlet shells without 
a cover. 

Lemon Tart Filling. 

The grated rind, pulp and juice of i lemon. 
I cup white sugar. 



lARTLETTS. ^ 20S 

4 eggs. 

I tablespoonful of butter. 

Beat all together, put in a tin pail and place in boil- ' 
ing water, stir five minutes, put in tarts. 

A nice dish of tarts for the tea-table can be made of f ; 
scraps of pie crust, that are often wasted: Roll out thin, ./ 
cut with a small biscuit cutter, bake, arrange on a plate, 
and place a teaspoonful of jelly on each one just before ' 
tea time. ^ 

Cream Raspberry Tartletts. l\ '■] 

Line a dish with paste. Sweeten the raspberries vety \,V 
sweet with white sugar, and fill the dish. Cover as for a " 
pie, do not press the paste down at the edges very closely. ^ 
When done, remove the cover and pour over this mixture: 

I cup milk or cream heated to boiling. 

Whites of 2 eggs. 

I tablespoonful white sugar. v . 

4^ j4 teaspoonful corn starch wet in cold water. 

Beat the whites lightly, and stir into the boiling milk, , 
mix the ingredients together and boil three minutes. 
When cold put them in the tartlet. Replace the cover, : 
and set aside to cool. Sprinkle sugar over the top. 

Strawberry cream tartlets can be made in the same 
manner. • . 



I 



PUDDINGS. 



The eggs for all kinds of puddings should be strained 
and if hot milk is used, stirred in after all the other in- 
gredients. Milk for tapioca, rice, and such, should be 
boiled, also , for bread and cracker, unless the bread is 
soaked over night. Suet must be chopped fine. In bat- 
ter pudding stir in the flour gradually. Put berries or 
cherries in last. In boiling puddings the cloth must be 
dipped and dredged well with flour, and be sure that the 
water is boiling hot and do not let it stop boiling. Dip 
the pudding in cold water when it comes from the kettle 
and it will turn out easily. A flour pudding is lighter 
when all the materials are beaten together. If you boil 
the pudding in a dish it must be well buttered, the same 
must be done for a baked pudding. 

To cut a boiled pudding without making it heavy, lay 
the knife blade first one side and then the other to warm 
it. Boiled puddings should be served immediately, as 
they soon become heavy. 

English Plum Pudding. Ng i. 

I pound suet, chopped fine. 

I pound fine bread crumbs. 

I pound seeded raisins. 

J^ pound citron chopped fine. 

I pound sugar. 

j4 cup o( flour. 

lo e^gs. 

}4 pmt brandy. 

}4 teaspoonf ul salt. 



"'M^^ 






SXO , PUDDINGS. 

I teaspoonful ginger. 

Mix together and steam tivo hours. 

Queen of Puddings. 

I pint fine bread crumbs. 

I quart fresh, rich milk (hot). 

Yolks of 4 eggs. 

I J4 cups of white sugar. 

I tablespoonful butter. 

5^ cup of jelly or jam. 

Soak the crumbs in the hot milk; rub the butter and 
iugar together, and stir in the yolks well beaten. Mix 
all together with such flavoring as you like, and bake in a 
deep pudding dish. When done, make a meringue of the 
whipped whites and half a cup of sugar; cover the pudding 
with the jelly, and over that place the meringue and brown 
in the oven. Eat cold with cream. Fresh fruit is very 
nice > instead of the jelly. 

Black Pudding. 

I cup of suet (chopped fine). 

I cup of molasses. 
•I cup of raisins. 

X cup of milk. 

3\i cups of flour. 

If teaspoonful soda. 

A little cinnamon. 
. Put in a dish and steam three hours. 

Baked Plum Pudding. 

I Jf pounds of flour. 

I pound of raisins, seeded and dredged in floor 

}4 cup of suet, powdered. 

1 cup of sugar. 

2 ounces of citron cut in bits. 
S eggs. 



. PUDDINGS. ail V 

1 teaspoonful each, nutmeg, cinnamon and cloves. 

2 cups of milk, or enough to make a thick batter of the 
flour. 

Beat yolks and sugar together, add the spice, suet and 
flour, gradually moistening with the milk, until you ca.n 
stir with the spoon. Put in the fruit by degrees, and Anally 
stir in the beaten whites. Beat well, and bake in a but- 
tered mould one and one-half hours, in a moderate oven. 
Serve with cream sauce. 

Plum Pudding. No. 2. 

I pound bread crumbs, or six pounded crackers. 

I quart milk. 

I large spoonful flour. 

I teacupful sugar. 

I nutmeg. 

I teaspoonful cinnamon. 

"4 teaspoonful powdered clove. 

A piece of butter the size of an egg. 

The same quantity of chopped suet. 

I pound raisins. 

6 eggs. 

Boil the milk. It is well to soak the bread in the milk 
over night; then the entire crust becomes soft, and mixes 
well with the other ingredients. Bake one hour and a 
half. Serve with rich sauce, if eaten warm; but it is ex- 
cellent cold, cut up like cake. A pudding made in this 
way will keep several weeks, and when one is to be used, 
it may be loosened from the dish by a knife passed around 
it, and a little hot water be poured around the edge. It 
should then be covered close, and set for half an hour 
into the stove or oven. 

Cracker Pudding. 

1 quart milk. 

1 cup powdered cracker. 

3 «ggs- 



JI9 PUDDINGS. 

2 tablespoonfuls melted butter. 

}4 tablespoonful soda, dissolved in hot water. 

Heat the milk slightly, and pouring it over the^ cracker 
;let them stand together fifteen minutes. Stir into this 
first the beaten yolks, then the butter and soda; beat all 
smooth and add the whipped whites. 

Bird's Nest. (Apple.) 

I pint cold milk. 

3 eggs. 

5 tablespoonfuls flour. 

6 medium sized, fair apples. 
I small teaspoonful salt. 

Pare the apples and take out the cores; arrange them 
in a buttered dish that will just receive them (one in the 
centre and five around it). Wet the flour smooth in part 
of the milk, then add the eggs and beat all together a few 
minutes; then put in the salt and the rest of the milk. 
Stir it well, and pour it into the dish of apples. Bake it 
an hour and make a melted sauce. For a large family 
make double measure, but bake it in two dishes, as the 
centre apples of a large dish will not cook as quickly as 
those around the edge. ^ 

Hen's Nest Pudding. 

Make a hole at one end of five small eggs and empty 
them, and wash the interior with pure water, shaken 
around well in them, then fill with blanc-mange, and when 
stiff and cold take off the shell; pare the yellow rind very 
thin from two lemons or oranges, boil them in water till 
very tender, then cut them in very thin strips to resemble 
straw; add to them half a cup of sugar and simmer fif- 
teen minutes longer in the syrup. Lay them out upon a 
dish to cool, taking care not to break them. Fill a small 
deep , dish full of nice jelly, and when it is set put the 
straw in the form of a nest, and lay the eggs in it Nice 
for dessert or supper. 



puddings. 213 

Bread Pudding. 

Take nice pieces of light bread, break them up^ and put 
a small pint bowl full into a quart of milk; set it in a tin 
pail or brown dish on the back part of the stove or range, 
where it will heat very gradually, and let it stand an hour 
or more. When the bread is soft enough to be' made fine 
with a spoon, just boil it up; set it off, stir in a large tea- 
spoonful of butter, a little salt, and from two to four beaten 
eggs. Bake one hour.. To be eaten with a sauce. If 
you wish it without a sauce, put in twice the quantity of 
butterj beat the eggs with a cup of sugar, a teaspoonful 
of cinnamon and half as much powdered clove. 

Sago Pudding. 

I pint of milk. 

1 yi tablespoonfuls of pearl sago. 

2 eggs. 

2 largQ tablespoonfuls of sugar, 

j4 A teaspoonful of salt. 

Flavor with vanilla or lemon. 

Wash the sago in warm but not hot water, twice; then 
put it. with the niilk into a pail and set it into a kettle .of 
hot water. Stir it very often, as it swells fast, or it will lie 
in a compact mass at the bottom. When it has boiled 
two or three minutes, take the pail from the kettle, add 
the salt, and the eggs beaten with the sugar. Add the 
flavoring, put it into a dish, and grate nutmeg over it. 
Set it immcJiiiately into the oven and bake about three- 
quarters of an hour. If you make a quart of milk, three 
eggs answer very well. It should then bake an hour. 
With this number of eggs, the sago settles a little. To 
have it equally diffused, take five eggs. 

Apple and Tapioca Pudding. 

I teacupful tapioca. 

6 good-sized, mellow, sour apples. 

X quart water. 



214 PUDDINGS. 

i teaspoonful salt. 

I teacupful sugar. 

Pare the apples and remove the core. Cover the tapioca 
with three cups of lukewarm water, and set it in a tol- 
erably warm place to soak five or six hours, stirring now 
and then. Wash the apples, butter a deep pudding dish 
and lay them in with the open end up. Fill the holes in 
the apples with the sugar, and add a cup of lukewarm 
water; cover closely and steam in a moderate oven until 
soft all through, turning them as they cook at the bottom. 
If the dish is more than a third full of liquid, turn some of 
it out before you pour the soaked tapioca over all. Bake, 
after the tapioca goes in, one hour. Eat warm, with sweet, 
hard sauce. You can make sago pudding in the same 
way. 

Tapioca Pudding. 

r cup tapioca. 

1 quart milk. 

5 eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately. 
' 2 tablespoonfuls butter, melted. 

2 tablespoonfuls sugar. 

; Soak the tapioca in enough cold water^to cover it, two 
hours; drain off the water if it be not all absorbed; soak 
two hours longer in the milk, which should be slightly 
warmed. When the tapioca is quite soft, beat the sugar 
and butter together; add the yolks, the milk and tapioca, 
lastly the whites. Stir very well, and bake in a buttered 
dish. Eat warm with sweet sauce. 

Farina Pudding. 

2 tablespoonfuls farina. 
"I pint milk, 
a eggs. 

I small cup sugar. 
% teaspopnful salt. 
Flavor with lemon or nutmeg. 
Set the milk in a pail into a kettle of hot water. When 



PUDDINGS. 215 

the top foams up, stir in the farina gradually, and add the 
salt. Let it remain ten or fifteen minutes, and stir re- 
peatedly. Take the pail from the kettle, beat the eggs 
and sugar together, and stir them in; add the essence, and 
pour the mixture in a buttered dish. Bake half an hour 
or forty minutes. No sauce is necessary. 

CocoANUT Pudding. 

% pound grated cocoanut. 

% cup stale sponge cake, broken up fine. 

2 tablespoonfuls butter. 

I cup of sugar. 

1 cup of rich milk or cream. 
6 eggs. 

2 teaspoonfuls vanilla or rose water. 

Rub together the butter and sugar, and then add the 
beaten yolks. Stir in the cocoanut when these are well 
mixed. Add the milk, cake crumbs, flavoring, and finally 
the whites of three eggs. Bake the pudding nearly three- 
quarters of an hour. Make a meringue of the whipped 
whites of the other three eggs, and three tablespoonfuls 
of sugar flavored with vanilla spread over the top, and 
set back in the oven until this is slightly browned. 

Berry Pudding., 

1 pint of milk. 

2 eggs. 

I saltspoonful of salt. 

}i teaspoonful soda, dissolved in hot water. 

^ teaspoonful cream tartar, sifted through a cup of 
flour, and added to enough flour to make a thick batter. ' 

I pint blackberries, raspberries, currants or huckleber- 
ries, well dredged with flour, stirred in at the last. Boil 
one hour in buttered mould. 

Fruit Valise Pudding. 

1 quart of flour. 

2 tablespoonfuls butter. 



; tl6 PUDI>INGS. 

1 teaspoonful soda,' dissolved in hot water. 

8 teaspoonfuls cream tartar mixed with the flour. 
yi teaspoonful salt. ^ . 

2 cups of milk, or enough to make the flour into a soft 
dough. 

1 quart of berries. 

Stoned cherries, sliced peaches, oranges or other fruit; 
jam, preserves, canned fruit or marmalade may be substi- 
tuted for the berries. Roll the crust into a sheet less than 
half an inch thick. Cover thickly with the fruit and 
sprinkle with sugar. Roll the sheet closely, leaving a mar- 
gin at one end to fold over the roll. Pinch the ends 
down closely to prevent the escape of the fruit and then 
sew up in a bag the size and shape of the valise. Dip 
the bag in hot water, and flour well before putting in the 
pudding. Boil an hour and a half. Cut the slices cross- 
wise, and serve hot with sauce. 

Lemon Pudding. 
X cup of sugar. 
-4 eggs. 

2 tablespoonfuls of com starch. 

2 lemons, juice of both and rind of one. 
I pint milk. 
^ I tablespoonful butter. 

Heat the milk to boiling, and stir in the com starch, 
wet with a few spoonfuls of cold water. Boil (\vt min- 
utes, stirring constantly. While hot mix in the butter 
and set it away to cool. Beat the yolks light, and add the 
sugar, mixing very thoroughly before putting in the lemon 
. juice and grated rind. Beat this to a stiff cream and add 
. gradually to the com starch and milk, when the latter is 
cold. Stir all smooth, put in a buttered dish, and bake 
Eat cold. 

Orange Pudding. 
5 sweet oranges. 
I coffee cupful of white sugar. 
I pint milk. 



PUPDINGS. 21) 

Yolks of 3 eggs. 

1 tablespoonful corn starch. . 

Peel and cut the oranges into thin slices, taking out the 
seeds; pour over them the sugar; set the milk in a pot of 
boiling water, and let it get boiling hot; add the yolks of 
the eggs well beaten, then the corn starch made smooth 
with a little cold milk; stir all the time; as soon as thick- 
ened, pour over the fruit. Beat the whites to a stiff 
froth, adding a tablespoon of sugar, and spread over the 
top for frosting; set it in the oven for a few minutes to 
harden; cat cold or hot (but better cold), for dinner or 
supper. Berries or peaches can be substituted for oranges. * 

Boston Lemon Pudding. ' 

2 cups dry bread crumbs. , 
5i cup powdered sugar. 

ji cup butter (or a little less). 

2 lemons, all the juice and half the grated rind. 

2 tablespoonfuls sifted flour. 

5 eggs, beaten light. 

The yolk? must be strained. Rub butter and sugar to 
a cream; add the beaten yolks and lemoti. Whip very 
light; put in handful by handful the bread crumbs, alter- 
nately with the stiffened whites; then the flour. Butter 
the mould, and put in the mixture (remembering to leave 
room for swelling), and boil two hours steadily, 

Boston Orange Pudding 

Is made in the same way, substituting oranges for lemons 
in the pudding, but retaining the lemon in the sauce. 
Both of these are excellent desserts. They can be. 
baked as well as boiled. 

Rice Pudding. {Plain.) 

4 tablespoonfuls rice. 

2 quarts milk. 

8 tablespoonfuls sugar. 

28 . 



Sl8 PUDDINGS. 

X teaspoonful salt. 

Butter the size of. an egg, melted. 

Nutmeg and cinnamon to taste. 

Wash and pick over the rice, and soak in one pint of 
the milk two hours. Then add the rest of the milk, the 
sugar, salt, butter, and spice. Bake two hours, and eat 
cold. 

Rice Pudding with Eggs. * 
I quart milk. 
. 4 eggs. . 
* j4 cup rice. 
5^ cup sugar. 
I tablespoonful butter. 
Handful of raisins, seeded and cut in two. 
Soak the rice for an hour in a pint of milk and then set 
it on the stove where it will slowly heat to a boil. Re- 
move it in five minutes after boiling, and let it cook. 
Beat the yolks, add )he sugar and rice in the boiled milk, 
with the unboiled, the beaten whites and lastly the raisins. 
Grate nutmeg over it, and bake three-fourths of an hour 
or until the custard is a light brown. Eat cold. 

Rice and Tapioca Pudding. 

. J^ cup rice. » 

j4 cup tapioca. 

5^ cup sugar. 

3 pints milk. 

Cinnamon to taste. 

Soak the tapioca in a cup of the milfc three hours; wash 
the rice in several waters, and soak in another cup of milk 
as long as you do the tapioca. Sweeten the remaining 
quart of milk; put all the ingredients together, and bak ' 
two hours in a slow oven. Eat cold. 

Boiled Rice. 

I cup whole rice. ; ][ 

I quart water (cold). . ; • 



PUDDINGS. a 19 

A little salt. 

Pick over and wash the rice, put it in the water and set 
the vessel in a kettle of boiling water. As it swells, and 
the water boils away, add more from the teakettle. It. 
will require an hour or more to cook it To be eaten 
with a sauce, or with sugar and cream. 

Velvet Pudding. 

5 eggs beaten separately. 

I teacupful of wliite sugar, 

4 tablespoonfuls corn starch dissolved in a little cold 
milk and added to the yolks and sugar. Boil three pints'^ 
of sweet milk, and pour into it the yolks and sugar while 
boiling. Remove from the fire when it has become quite 
thick. Flavor with vanilla and pour into a baking dish. 
Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth with half a 
teacupful of white sugar; then pour it over the top of the 
pudding, and return it to the stove until it is slightly 
browned. Eat with sauce. 

Food Pudding. 

4 eggs, yolks and whites beaten separately. 
I tablespoon ful of flour to each egg. 
I pint of milk. 
A little salt. 

Bake in jelly tins fifteen minutes; and must be eaten 
as soon as done. Eat with sauce. 

Pine Apple Pudding. ^ 

Prepare ripe pine apples by grating them very fine. 
Make a custard with cream and egg. Heat the custard 
over steam until sufficiently hot' to congeal the cream. 
Having previously drained the pine apple free from juice, 
and sweetened it one hour before, it will be ready to mix 
with the cream. Pour in a fancy dish (that has been 
heated, so that it will not break) a layer of the cream, then 
a layer of the pine apple, alternately, until the whole is in 
the dish. Beat sweet cream stiff, sweeten with loaf sugar 



a20 PUDDINGS. 

very sweet, and just before thd dessert is served add the 
juice >of the fruit, and put the beaten cream on the top of 
the pudding. The only care in making this dessert, is 
the danger of the custard and cream becoming sour. 

Cocoa pudding can be made in the same way, adding 
the cocoa milk to the cream. 

Corn Starch Pudding. {Boiied.) 

3 tablespoonfuls com starch. 
I quart milk. 

3 eggs. • 

A little salt. 

Flavor with lemon or vanilla. 

Mix the corn starch in a little of the milk, add to it the 
eggs, well beaten, and the salt. Heat the remainder of 
the milk till near boiling. Add the above preparation 
and boil four minutes. Stir briskly. Eat warm with 
sauce or cream and sugar. ,v^ 

Corn Starch Pudding. {Bak^d.) 

4 tablespoonfuls com starch ' 
I quart milk. 

4 eggs, whites and yolks separate. 

\i cup sugar. 
' Nutmeg and cinnamon. 

I tablespoonful butter. 

Dissolve the com starch in a little cold milk, and hav- 
ing heated the rest of the milk to boiling, stir this in and 
boil three minutes, stirring all the time. Remove from 
the fire, and while still very hot, put in the butter. Set 
away until cold; beat the eggs very light, the sugar 
and seasoning with th^m, and stir into the corn starif**^, 
beating thoroughly to a smooth custard.. Turn intl. ^ 
buttered dish, and bake half an hour. Eat cold, wilii 
powdered sugar sifted over it. 

Arrow Root, Pudding. 

Is made according to either of the recipes for com 
starch, substituting arrow root for corn starch. 



puddings. . 221 

German Puffs. 

3 cups flour. 

3 cups milk. 

3 eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately and very light. 

3 teaspoonfuls melted butter.^ 

I saltspoonful salt. 

Pour m nine well buttered cups of same size as that 
used for measuring, and bake to a fine brown. Eat as 
soon as done, with sauce. 

Snow Pudding. ^ ^ 

yi package of gelatme. ^ 

1 pmt of boiling water. 

2 teacupfuls sugar. 
Juice of I lemon. 
Whites of 3 eggs. 

Dissolve the gelatme in a little cold water, then add the 
boiling water, sugar and lemon juice; strain . it, break in 
whites of three eggs, beat one hour, then pour in moulds. 
For sauce, . '■ ' 

Yolks of 3 eggs. • , J. 

I pint of milk. 

Make the same as boiled custard, and flavor and sweeten 
to taste. To be eaten cold. 

Cottage Pudding. 

\ 2 eggs. 

I cup sweet milk. 
I cup sugar. 

3 cups flour or enough to make quite a stiff batter. 
• i^tablespoonful of butter. 

'ma. teaspoonful cream tartar worked into the flour. . , 

J^ teaspoonful soda. ,' » i '* 

I teaspoonful salt. ' %vi 

Cream the butter and sugar. Beat in yolks, and thei?!: j- 

the milk, salt and sgda (dissolved in hot water) then the V 

beaten whites and flour, alternately. Bake in buttered ')j'' 

mould, cut in slic^ and eat with liquid sauce. ♦ ' V ^'■:'^^ 

h ■ * • ' ' ' . ■ ^^ ^ I "■ / 



lia PUDDINGS. 

Delicate Pudding. 

I teacup sweet milk. 

1 tablespoon ful flour. 

4 tablespoonfuls melted butter. 

Yolks of 5 eggs. 

Sweeten and flavor to taste. 

Beat the sugar and eggs together, and stir in the other 
ingredients. Place on the stove to thicken, not boil. 
Line a deep dish with pastry and cover the bottom with 
preserves, jelly or any fruit, pour on the mixture when 
thick, and bake. Make a frosting of the whites and put 
on the top and brown slightly. Eat cold. 

Apple Dumplings. {Boiled,) 

Make a paste like cream tartar biscuit, and roll it out 
large, make the middle one-third of an inch thick, but 
roll the edges thin. Wring a thick, square cloth in water, 
flour it well, and lay it in a deep dish; lay the crust into 
it, and fill with sliced or quartered tart apples. Close the 
crust together, and draw up the cloth around it; tie with 
a strong string closely, allowing no room to swell. If the 
dumpling holds three pints of sliced apples, boil it two 
hours; when done take it from the' pot, and plunge for a 
moment in cold water, then turn into a dish. Eat with 
sauce. , 

Apple Dumplings. {Baked.) 

Make a paste same as above, roll it into a sheet less 
than half an inch thick, cut it in squares, and lay in the 
center of each, a juicy tart apple, pared and cored. 
Bring the corners together and pinch slightly. Lay in 
buttered pan, the pinched edges downward, and bake to 
a light brown. Sift powdered sugar over, and serve with 
a richy sweet sauce. 

Steam Pudding. 

2 cups sweet milk. 
I cup sweet butter. 



PUDDINGS. 92% 

I cup sugar. 

1 cup seedless raisins, or currants or citron* 
4 cups flour. 

2 teaspoonfuls baking powder. 
Cinnamon or nutmeg to taste. 
A little salt. 

Steam two hours and you will have an excellent pud* 
ding. 

Indian Pudding. 



% pint of corn meal. 
I quart boiling milk. 
• I teaspoonful of salt. ^ 

I cup of chopped suet, or 
J^ cup of butter. 
I cup of molasses. 
I egg. 

A little ginger. 

Stir the meal into the boiling milk. When cool add the 
other ingredients. Bake two hours. 

Indian Suet Pudding. 

I teacupful of molasses. 

1 teacupful of chopped suet. 

2 ^ cups of Indian meal. 
I cup of boiled milk. 

^ cup of cold milk. 

1 teaspoonful of salt. 

Good without eggs though two or three can be used if 
preferred. Steam three hours in a pudding pan. ' 

Batter Pudding. / 

.1 pint of milk. . 
4 eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately. 

2 even cups of flour. 
I teaspoonful salt 

I pinch of soda. ' 



224 PUDDINGS. 

Bake in a buttered dish three-quarters of an hour. 
Serve in the pudding-dish as soon as it is drawn from the 
oven, and eat with a rich sauce. 

Or. 

You may boil it in a buttered mould or floured bag, 
flouring it very thickly. Boil two hours, taking care the 
boiling does not cease for a moment until the pudding is 
done. 

• Thanksgiving Plum Pudding. 

I pound raisins. 

1 dozen crackers. 

4 eggs, well beaten. 

2 cups sugar. 

I teaspoonful salt. 

I teaspoonful each, ground cloves, allspice and cinna- 
mon. 

I ^ated nutmeg. 

Mix together the eggs, sugar, salt and spice. 

Open the crackers (Boston crackers are best,) and but- 
ter them, soak in milk until quite soft. Half fill a pan 
(which has been well greased) with alternate layers of 
crackers and the egg mixture, and good muscatel or box 
raisins. Fill the pan three-fourths full of milk, if filled 
full it will swell and run over. It requires two hours to 
bake. Cover while baking, if likely to burn. Slices of 
bread can be used instead of crackers. It may be served 
with or without sauce. 

Baked Custard. 

I quart of milk. 

4 eggs, beaten light, whites and jrolks separately. 

5 tablespoonfuls sugar, mixed with the yolks. 
, Nutmeg and vanilla. 

Scald, but not boil the milk ; add gradually the beaten 
yolkSy and when mixed well, stir in the whites. Flavor 



PUDDINGS. f85 

and pour into a deep dish, or custard-cups. Set these in 
a pan of hot water, grate nutmeg upon each, and bake 
until firm. Eat cold from the cups. 

Minute Pudding. 'V 

I quart water boiling. 

Flour ready sifted. 

Add a little salt to the water, and stir in rapidly the 
flour, dropping it from the hand until it is of proper con- 
sistency. If milk is used with the water do not salt it, 
until the flour is stirred In, as there will be danger of 
curdling the milk^ If the fire is very hot it \|^ill make the 
pudding lumpy. 

Cracked Wheat.'' 

Take one or two quarts, according to the size of the 
family, put it into cold water and after stirring it well, let 
it settle, then pour off the water and add more, in the 
proportion of three quarts to a quart of wheat. Let it 
stand over night, and the next day boil it very moderately 
two or three hours in a tin pail set into a kettle of boiling 
water. If it becomes too thick, add more water. The 
evaporation is more rapid at some times than at others. 
It should not be quite as thick as hasty pudding. ' Take 
it up in dishes wet in cold water. ^ '^ ', 

To brown it for breakfast, grease a tin or dripping-pan, 
turn the wheat out of the dish upon it, and set it into the 
stove oven. It will become heated through, and browned . 
in half an hour or forty minutes. Some like it better 
this way than when first boiled. 

Oat Meal Pudding. 

Have a pint of water in a sauce-pan. Wet two table- 
spoonfuls of oat-meal in cold water, with a small teaspoon- 
ful of salt. Rub it smooth as you can (it will not rub 
smooth as flour), thien stir it into the boiling water, and 
boil slowly half an hour. Stir it often. Should it be too 
thin after it has boiled about twenty minutes, j^cattex in a 
29 ..■.-.... .-...,.^ 



226 PUDDINGS. 

little more oat meal dry ; if too thick, add more water, 
eat with sugar and cre^im. There is much difference in 
oat meal Be sure and get fresh, sweet, Scotch oat meal. 

Graham Pudding. 

I cup Graham flour, wet up with cold water. 

I large cup boiling water, and same quantity of milk. 

Stir the wet flour into the boiling water, slightly salted. 

Boil ten minutes, stirring almost constantly. Add the 
milk, and cook, after it has come again to a boil, ten min- 
utes longer. Serve with milk and sugar, for breakfast. 

Hominy. {Boiled and Fried.) 

Take a pint of hominy, put cold water over it, stir and 
let it settle; then pour off the water. Do this twice; then 
put it into a tin pudding pan or pail, in three pints of 
water to soak over night. In the morning set the pail 
into a kettle of boiling water ; add a little salt ; stir it often. 
If it becomes so thick as not to stir easily, add more water. 
It should be just thick enough, when done, to settle down 
almost smooth, in a deep dish. Fine hominy will cook in 
two hours ; the coarse requires three. This is nice eaten 
with milk. 

To fry it for breakfast, slice it about half an inch thick, 
and lay it on a fiddle greased with nice beef drippings 
or butter. It will require about fiften minutes to brown 
both sides. The coarse does not fry as nicely as the fine. 

Hasty Pudding. 

Boil in a pot or kettle about six quarts of water, leav- 
ing room for the addition of the meal ; mix a pint bowl 
full of Indian meal and cold water, with a small spoonful 
of sjllt. When the water boils, stir this into it. After 
thirty or forty minutes, stir in four or five handfuls of dry 
meal, and let it boil as muqh longer ; then add more dry 
mcaL Taste to see if it is salt enough. Stir it very often 



PUDDINGS. 227 

to prevent its burning. Most people make it too thick 
and do not cook it half long enough. ^ Boil it all together 
at least two hours. When taken out it should be so soft 
that it will in a few minutes settle down smooth in a dish. 
This can be fried in the same manner as hominy. 



PUDDING SAUCES. 



Plain Pudding Sauce. 

4 large spoonfuls white sugar. 

2 spoonfuls butter.' 

I spoonful flour. 

White of I egg, beaten to a stiff froth. 

Stir the flour, sugar and butter together, then add the 
white of the egg; pour into this a gill of boiling water, 
stirring the mixture very fast. Add essence of lemon or 
rose, or grate nutmeg over the top. 

Hard Saucb. 

I teacupful of sugar. 

}i teacupful butter. 

Stir together until light; flavor with nutmeg or essence 
of lemon. Smooth the top with a knife, and grate nut* 
meg over it. 

Lemon Sauce. 

1 /ar^e cup of sugar. 
Nearly half a cup of butter. 
» egg- 



, ili28 . ^^' PUDDING SAUCJLa. 

I lemoh, iail the juice and half the grated peeL 

I teaspoonful nutmeg. 

3 tablespoonfuls boiling water. 
^ Cream the butter and sugar, and beat in the egg whipped 
light; then the lemon and nutmeg. Beat hard ten min- 
utes, and add, a spoonful at a time, the boiling water. 
Put in a tin pail and set within the uncovered top of the 
tea kettle, which you must keep boiling until the steam 
heats the sauce very hot, but not to boiling. Stir con- 
stantly. 

Sauce for Velvet Pudding. 

Yolks of 2 eggs. 

I cup of white sugar. 
;^ I tablespoonful of butter. 

Cream the butter and sugar, and add the eggs well 
beaten; then one cup of boiling milk. Put it over the 
fire and let it come to a boiling heat. Flavor with vanilla. 

Jelly Sauce. / ' ' 

, 5^ cup currant jelly. \ ,^i 

I tablespoonful butter melted. «* 

^ }i dessert spoonful arrow root or, com starch, wet with 
cold water. 

3 tablespoonfuls boiling water. ,'" 

Stir the arrow root into the boiling water and heat, 
stirring all the time, until it thickens; add the butter, and 
set aside until almost cool, when beat in, spoonful bv 
spoonful, the jelly to a smooth, pink paste.. Stir hard, 
and heat in a tin vessel, set within another of boiling wa- 
ter, until very hot. 

Sweetened Crea!m. {CM.) 

I pint of cream. 

4 tablespoonfuls powdered sugar. 
I teaspoonful of nutmeg. 

I teaspoonful of vanilla. 

Mix all well together, stirring until the sugar is dis- 
solved. 



PUDDING SAUCES. ^^g 

English Plum Pudding Saucb. /O y^ipii 

1 cup of sugar. /-/2^ ^. HZ^f,-^ ^ '^.^' ' - ' 

I tablespoonfiil melted butter, t-yi / » 

I tablespoonful corn starch. . ^ / [/ 
I pint boiling hot water. 

Flavoring to taste. • 

Beat the sugar and butter to a cream; and add the 
. corn starch which has been beaten smoothly with a little 

cold water. Pour over this the hot water and flavoring, ^' 

and boil fifteen minutes. 

Sauce for all Kinds op Puddings. 

1 pint of boiling water. , ' * 
» egg. • ^ 
3 spoonfuls sugar. 

a spoonfuls butter. 

2 spoonfuls flour. 

Mix the flour smooth in cold water, and stir it into the 
boiling water and butter, and cook until it thickens, stir- 
ring it, that it may not be lumpy; the same as for drawn 
butter. Beat the egg and sugar together in a bowl, and 
pour the liquid over them. Season to taste. No farther 
cooking is necessary. 

[We have inserted some wine sauces, as many insist on the use of 
them ; but strawberry, orange or lemon juice maybe used instead, and 
by many is preferred.] 

Wine Saucb. 

3 teacups of sugar. . 
I teacup of butter. 

a eggs. 

I teacupful of wine. 

Stir the sugar and butter to a cream; beat the egss' 
very light, and stir all together^ then add the wine. Mix ' 
and set on top of a teakettle of boiling water. It must 
not be put on the stove nor boil. \' 



. I 



'tJO PUDDING SAUCES 

Foaming Pudding Saucb. 

Whites of 3 eggs, well beaten. 
^ teacup of sugar. 
Jj cup of water. 
I glass wine. 

Melt and boil the sugar in the water; add the wine, 
and stir in the whites. Serve at once. 



ADDITIONAL RECIPES. gjl 

Steamed Graham PuDDiNOf 
I cup milk. 

1 ** molasses. , 

2 cups graham flour. 
1 cup raisins. 

1 teaspoonful cloves. 
1 ** cinnamon, 

1 heaping teaspoonful sod«li 
Steam three hours* 



ijfi' ^^ ADDITIONAL RECIPES. 



ADDITIONAL RECIPES. ^ ^^^ r.J u^33.,^^y 



2xj^, ADDITIONAL RECIPES. 



FANCY DISHES FOR DESSERT, 

General Directions for Custard and Blanc- 
Mange. 

Creams and custards which are to be frozen should 
have quite one-third more sugar than those which are not 
In heating milk for custards, do not let it quite boil before 
adding the eggs. A good plan is to take the scalding 
milk from the fire and slowly pour it over the beaten eggs, 
beating the eggs and milk all of the time, and return to 
the fire and boil ten or fifteen minutes, stirring constantly. 
Always boil the milk in a vessel set in another vessel of 
boiling water. Custards are better with the whites and 
yolks beaten separately; and stir the whites in last. 

Boiled Custard. 

I quart of milk. 

Yolks of five eggs, and whites of seven. 

6 tablespoonfuls of sugar. 

Flavor with vanilla. 

Heat the milk nearly to boiling; beat the yolks li|;ht 
and stir in the sugar. Add the milk; stir in five whites 
whipped stiff; return to the fire and stir until thick, biit 
not until it breaks. Season with vanilla, and pour into 
custard cups; whip the whites of two eggs to a stiff froth, 
and add a heaping tablespoonful of powdered sugar. 
When the custard is cold, pile a little of this upon the top 
of each cup. A preserved berry, or a little bright jcUy 
placed upon each improves its looks. ♦ 

Floating Island. 

/ I quart of milk. 

4 eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately. 



2$6 ' FANCY DISHES FOR DESSERT. 

/ 

4 tablespoon fuls white sugar. 

2 teaspoonfuls^extract vanilla. 

}4 cup currant jelly. 

Beat the yolks well and stir in the sugar. Heat the milk 
hot and stir in a little at a time; boil until it begins to* 
thicken. Flavor when cool, stir well, and pour into a 
glass dish. Make a meringue of the whites and beat into 
It the jelly. Lay on the top bits of jelly cut into any 
fanciful shape. 

Whipped Syllabubs. 

I pint rich cream. 
. Whites of 2 eggs. 

I small glass of wine. 

I cup powdered sugar. 

Flavor with vanilla or any other extract. 

Whip half the sugar into the cream, the rest with the 
whites of the eggs. Mix these, and add flavoring. Chum 
in a syllabub chum to a strong froth. Heap in glasses. 

Raspberry Trifle. 

Lay in a deep glass dish slices of sponge cake or any 
delicate cup cake. Pour over some cr^am or juice of 

E reserved fruit; then add a layer of raspberry or straw- 
erry jam, as thick as your finger. Pour upon this a pint 
of boiled custard, and beat the whites of three eggs very 
stifF| and spread over the custard. 

Meringues. 

Whites of 6 eggs. 

1 pound powdered sugar. 

Flavor with any essence you like. 

.Cut the whites of the eggs very stiff. Stir in gradually 
the sugar; beat until thick; add the flavoring. Butter , 
slightly sheets of white paper, j^nd lay upon pieces of 
hard wood boards. Drop the mixture on the paper, a 
spoonful at a time, in oval form, rounded, and thick at 
the top. Bake in a slow oven till the outside is crisp, and 
of a light brown. Then remove from the paper, and join 



FANCY DISHES FOR DESSERT. 237 , 

them by the under side, two by two. The inside will be 
soft and creamy. Placed singly upon cream in a glass 
dish, tliey are a handsome dessert. 

Orange Souffle. 

4 large oranges. 

3 heaping tablespoonfuls powdered sugar. 

6 eggs. 

3 gills new milk. 

Peel, slice, and seed the oranges, put them into the dish 
you wish to send to the table, sprinkling a heaping table- 
spoon of sugar over them. Make a custard of the yolkS, 
of six eggs, the new milk, and two tablespoonfuls of sugar; 
set aside to cool, and when cold, pour over the ^sliced ^ 
oranges. Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiiT froth, add 
a spoon of powdered sugar, and spread over the pudding, 
then set in the stove and brown slightly. Excellent for 
dessert or tea. . 

Charlotte Russe. 

I pint of milk. 
• I pint of cream. 

4 eggs. 

^ ounce of gelatine. 

^ cup of sugar. 

Flavor with any kind of flavoring desired. Make a cus- 
tard of the milk, eggs, and sugar,»and set away to cooL 
Dissolve the gelatine in a gill of milk by putting it iit a 
warm place; when it is dissolved pour it into the cream 
and whip to a froth. When the custard is cold, stir it 
gently into the cream. Make a mould of sponge cake, 
by cutting strips from the loaf for the sides, leaving the 
crust for^ the bottom in one piece. Pour^the mixture in^ 
and set it in a cool place. 

Lemon Snow. 

Whites of 12 eggs. 

}4 box of gelatine. ' 

X pint of hot water; 



238 FANCY DASHES FOR DESSERT. 

I cup of white sugar. 

Juice of 2 lemons. 

Beat the eggs to a stiff froth. Dissolve the gelatine in 
the hot water, and add the sugar and lemon juice to it. 
When it is cooling, add the eggs. Run in moulds. 

Stained Froth. 

Take the whites of three or four eggs, and whip them 
to a stiff froth, then beat into them the syrup of damsons, 
or any highly colored preserve. This makes an elegant 
addition to a dish of soft custard. Some persons, when 
' making custards, lay the white of eggs, cut in this way, 
upon, the top of the boiling milk for a minute^ or two. 
This hardens it, and it is taken off upon a dish, and when 
the custard cups are fijled, a piece is laid upon the top of 
each. 

Corn Starch Blanc Mange. 

xi quart of milk. 

4 tablespoonfuls com starch, wet in a Httle cold water. 

3 eggs, well beaten, whites and yolks separately. 

I cup of sugar. 

Vanilla, lemon, or other essence. 

One saltspoonful salt. 

Heat the milk to boiling; stir in the com starch and 
salt, and boil together five minutes, then add the yolks, 
beaten light, with the sugar; boil two minutes longer, stir- 
ring all the while; remove the mixture from the fire, and 
beat in the whipped whites while it is boiling hot. Pour 
into a mould wet with cold water, and set in a cold place. 
Eat with sugar and cream. 

Velvet Blanc Mange. 

a cups sweet cream. 

j4 ounce Cooper's gelatine, soaked in a little cold water 
one hour. 

^ cup powdered white sugar. 

I teaspoonful extract of bitter almonds. 



FANCY DISHES FOR DESERT. 339 

1 glass white wine. 

Heat the cream to boiling, stir in the gelatine and sugary 
as soon as they are dissolved, take from the fire. Beat 
ten minutes, or churn in a syllabub churn until very light; 
flavor, and add by degrees the wine, mixing it in well. 
Put in moulds wet with cold water. 

Moss Blanc Mange. 

In making this blanc mange as little moss should be used 
as will suffice to harden the milk. If the moss is old, 
more is necessary than if it is fresh. Allow half a tea- 
cupful for a quart of milk. Wash it and put it in soak 
over night; in the morning tie it up in a piece of muslin, 
and boil it in the milk gently twenty minutes or half an 
hour. Then put in half a saltspoonful of salt, strain it 
upon a large spoonful of crushed sugar, and put it into a 
mould immediately, as it soon begins to harden. Eat it 
with sugar and cream. 

Lemon Cream. 

Whites of 9 eggs. 

I (juart of cream. 

Juice of I large lemon. 

Beat the eggs well; put the cream over the fire, and 
when it comes to the boil stir it swiftly into the eggs, as 
in making boiled custard, and set the cream back on the ^ 
fire, and stir slowly until it thickens somewhat. Take it 
from the fire and put in the lemon juice, stirring con- 
stantly all the time until it becomes cool enough not to 
send off any steam; place on ice. This makes a solid 
blanc mange, and is quite as good as ice cream. 

Tapioca Cream. ' 

3 tablespoonfuls tapioca. 

3 eggs. 

I quart of milk. 

Su^ar and flavor to taste. 

A little salt if you like. 



^40' . FANCY DISHES FOR DESSERT. 

Soak the tapioca in a little water for an hour, or until 
soft Beat the yolks and the whites of the eggs separate- 
ly. Boil a quart of new milk; while boiling add the yolks, 
tapioca and sugar, stirring ^adually until thickened. 
When nearly cold, add the whites beaten to a froth, and 
flavor. This makes a very nice dish for tea, as well as 
dessert. 

Spanish Cream. 

}4 box of gelatine. 
# I small cup of sugar. 
' Yolks of 3 eggs. 

1 quart of milk. 

, Soak the gelatine in the milk for one hour, then put it 
on the fire, and as it warms, stir it well. Beat the yolks 
very light, and stir in the sugar, and add to the scalding 
milk. Heat to boiling, stirnng all the time. Flavor with 
lemon or vanilla. Strain through thin muslin or tarlatan, 
and when nearly cold, wet the mould in cold water and 
, pour in the cream. 

Wine Jelly. 

2 pounds sugar. 

I pint of wine (white, or pale sherry). 

I pint cold water. 

I package Coxe's gelatine. 

Juice of two lemons and grated peel of one. 

I quart of boiling water. 

Little bit of ground cinnamon. 

Soak the gelatine in the cold water one hour, and then 
add to the water, sugar, lemons and cinnamon. Pour 
over the mixture the boiling water and stir until the gela- 
tine is thoroughly dissolved. Lastly put in the wine and 
strain the whole through a flannel bag. Do not squeeze 
the bag. Wet the jelly moulds with cold water and set 
the jelly away in them to cooL 



fancy dishes for dessert. 24i 

Orange Jelly. 

2 oranges, juice of both and grated peel of one, 
I lemon, juice and peel. 

I package Coxe's gelatine. 

I pint boiling water. 

I J4 cups sugar. 

1 small cup of wine. 

Little bit of ground cinnamon. 

Soak the gelatine in very little water, one hour. 

Squeeze the juice of the oranges and lemons into a 
bowl, and put with Ihem the grated peel and the cinna- 
mon. Pour over this the boiling water, cover tight and 
let it stand half an hour. Strain and add the sugar. Let 
it come to a boil and stir in the gelatine; when this is well 
dissolved, take it off from the fire. Strain through jelly 
bag into the moulds. 

Calf's Foot Jelly. 

4 calfs feet (cleaned). 
4 quarts water. 
I pint wine. 

3 cups sugar. 

Whites of 3 eggs (well beaten). 

I teaspoonful nutmeg. 

Juice of I lemon and half the grated peel. 

Boil the feet in the water until it is reduced one-half 
Strain the litjuor and let it stand ten or twelve hours. Be 
careful to remove all the fat and dregs. Melt slowly in ^ 
the preserving kettle, and add the seasoning, sugar, and 
the whipped whites of the eggs; boil fast ten minutes; 
skim well. Strain through the jelly bag. Do not squeeze 
the bag until it ceases to run freely, then gently squeeze 
the remainder into another bowl, as it will Miscolor the 
clear jelly; the second lot will taste as well . as the first, ^ . 
Set awiy in moulds, which have been wet, in a cool place. 
31 




' *4* ■is££> -tancy dishes for^pessert, 

.; Lemon JelIyJ' 

3 sheets American isinglass. 

2 pints cold Vatct. '- ' ■ ; ., 

ji^cup white sugar, i'."*^ ^ 
fjuice and grated peel of* i lemoh. 
Break the ;sin glass in small pieces and soak half an 
, U^;.fy^^ in one pint of cold water, dissolve in this water the 

J^|j'( sugar and lemon. Boil in one pint of water two or three 
V'^.f-l^ cloves for a few minutes, and stir into it the water con- 
,^>j;tainingthe isinglasSj and strain into a mould. Wet the 
■^^^mJJuld^ Let it set till the next dzy, " . .-. ^ _^^*;^ 



**i 




,M4 |3;^H%^?:^' .' ^Vv: ;Al>DITION4t' ; lOCCIPBSL 



ICE-CREAM, 

DiRBCTIONS FOR SsLF-FrBKZINO. 



Have ready a Quantity of ice, cracked in small pieces, 
the smaller the better. This can be done by laying a 
great lump of ice between two folds of coarse sacking or 
an old carpet, tucking it in snugly, and beating it, through 
the cloth, with an ax or mallet, until fine enough. There 
b no waste of ice; gather up the comers of the cloth and 
slide as much as you want into the outer vessel. Use an 
ordinarv upright freezer, set in a deep pail; pack around 
it closely, nrst, a layer of pounded ice, then one of rock 
wit'^amm^n soli will not do. In this order fill the pail; 
but before covering the freezer-lid, remove it carefully, 
that none of the salt may get in, and, with a long wooden 
ladle or fiat stick, beat the custard steadily for five min- 
utes.^ Replace the lid, pack the ice and salt upon it, pat- 
ting it down hard on top; cover all with severd folds of 
bUmket or carpet, and leave it for one hour. Then re* 
move the cover of the freezer, when you have wiped it 
carefully outside. With your ladle scrape ofif all the frozen 
qistard which has gathered upon the bottom and sides. 
Beat again until the custard is a smooth, half congealed 
paste. The smoothness of the ice cream depends -upon 
^our action at this point. Put on the cover, pack in more 
ice and salt, and turn off the brine. Spread the double 
carpet over all once more, having buried the freezer out of 
fight in ice, and leave it for three or four hours. If the 
ice melts so that there is a quantity of water in the pail, 
poor it off, but do not open the freezer. In two hours 
more it will be ready for use. Should the ice melt very 



ICE-CREAM. 247 

fast, you may have lo turn the water of! more than twice; 
but this will seldom happen except in very hot weathek. 
You need not devote fifteen minutes in all to the business 
after the custard is made. If you do not own a freezer, 
a wooden or tin pail, holding ten or twelve quarts, can be 
used for the ice and salt, and a three quart pail for the 
cream, when only a small quantity is required. 

Ice Cream. No. i. 

1 quart rich milk. 

6 eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately. 

4 cups of sugar. 

3 pints of rich cream. 

5 teaspoonfuls vanilla or other flavoring. 

Ileat the milk nearly to boiling. Beat the yolks light 
and stir in the sugar. Pour the hot milk on this gradually, 
beating all the while. Put in the frothed whites and set 
the vessel inside another containing hot water. Stir the 
custard steadily for flfteen minutes, or until as thick as 
boiled custard. When quite cool, beat in the cream and 
flavoring, and freeze. 

Ice Cream. No. 2. 

I quart rich milk. 

3 eggs. 

I coffee cup granulated sugar. ' 

I large spoonful of corn starch. . 

Put the milk in a tin pail, and set it in a kettle of hot 
water to boil; rub the corn starch smooth in a little cold 
milk, add to it the sugar and the eggs. Beat these well 
together and stir into the boiling milk. Remove from tl)e 
fire in a minute or two, and set it to cool. When perfect- ' 
ly cold, add vanilla or lemon, and put it into the ireezer. 

Chocolate Ice Cream. 

1 quart of cream. 

1 pint new milk. ' 

2 cups sugar. ^ . 



348 ICE-CREAM. 

V 2 eggs beaten very light. 

. 5 tablespoonfuls chocolate rubbed smooth in a little 
milk. 

Heat the milk nearly to boiling, and pour slowly in with 
the beaten egg and sugar. Stir in the chocolate, beat well 
three minutes, and return to the inner kettle. Heat until 
it thickens well, stirring constantly; take from the fire and 
set aside to cool, When the custard is cold, beat in the 
cream and freeze. 

Pine Apple Ice Cream. 

I large, ripe pine apple. -j 

I pound i)Owdered sugar. 

1 quart of cream. 

The pine apple must be sliced thin, and the sugar scat- 
tered between the slices; cover, and let the fruit steep 
three hours. Then cut it up in the syrup, and strain it 
through a hair sieve or bag of coarse lace. Beat gradu- 
ally into the cream, and freeze as rapidly as possible. A 
few pieces of pine apple, unsugared, may be reserved, cut 
into square bits, and stirred through the cream when it is 
half frozen. 

Orange Ice Cream. 

. 2 oranges, tjjie juice of one, and the grated peel of one 
uid a half. 

2 cups of sugar. * 
I I quart of cream. 

Sweeten the cream, beat the orange gradually into it, 
and put at once into the freezer. Freeze rapidly in a pat- 
tent freezer, as the acid is apt to turn the cream. 

Lemon ice cream may be made in the same way. 

•Strawberry or Raspberry Ice Cream. 

I quart fresh cream. 

I pound of sugar. 

I quart ripe, sweet berries. 



ICE-CREAM. 249 

Sprinkle over the berries half the sugar and let them 
stand three hours, then press, mash, and strain through a 
thin muslin bag. Add the rest of the sugar and beat in 
the cream litife by little. Freeze quickly; open the freezer 
and stir several times. This is improved by adding, when 
the cream is stiff, a pint* of whole berries, unsugared. If 
these are added, a cup more of sugar must be added to 
the prepared berries. , 

ICES. 

Strawberry Icb. 

I box of strawberries. 

I pint of water. ' 

1 lemon, juice only. 

2 cups of white sugar. 

Crush the strawberries, then add the water and lemon 
juice. Let it stand for a few hours, then strain through a 
bag or cloth upon the sugar. Squeeze out all the juice 
possible, and stir until the sugar is entirely dissolved. 
Make it sweeter if desired. Put it in the freezer for an 
hour. 

Lemon Ice. 

6 lemons, juice of all, and grated peel of 3. 

I large, sweet orange, juice and grated peeL 

I pint of water. 

I pint of sugar. 

Squeeze out all the juice and put into it the grated 
peels; let inem lay or steep in it one hour. Strain, squeez- 
mg through a bag. Mix in the sugar and then the water. 
Stir until the sugar is dissolved, then put in the freezer. 
Beat all together two or three times while freezing. 

Orange Ice , 

May be made in the same manner as lemon ice, only us- 
ing six oranges and the juice of two lemons. 



150 ice-cream. 

Currant and. Raspberry Icb. 

1 pint of raspberries. 
I quart red currants. 
I % pints of sugar. 
1 pint of water. 

Squeeze out the juice, mix in the sugar and water and 
freeze. 



SAUCE, PREjSERVES AND FRUIT 
JELLIES. • 



Porcelain kettles are best for preserving. If bell metal 
is used, have it thoroughly cleaned, which is done by pour-, 
in^ into it a cupful of vinegar, and a handful of salt, heat 
this and faithfully scour every part of the inside. Do 
not let your preserv.es stand in it a moment after being 
taken from the stove. If you wish to use again in a few- 
minutes event wash the kettle, as all acids produce a chem- ^ 
ical action on bell-metal which is poisonous. Use only 
fine sugar for nice preserves, for, like every thing else, the 
better the material used, the more satisfactory the result. 
Moist or dark sugar can not be used with the same; resuU 
as white sugar. 

If you are desirous of having very nice preserves, ox 
jellies, the su^ar can be clarified according to directions 
given for clarifying sugar for candy. Do not hurry in the 
process of preserving. Weigh accurately. Put up your 
preserves in small jars in preference to larger ones, and 
if many kinds are made, label each jar to prevent mis« 
takes. Keep them in a cool, dark place, that- is perfectly 
dry. If care is taken in )veighing and cooking, preserves, 
ought never to require cooking the second time. This, 
trouble may arise if they can not be kept in a dry;^ copl 
placcj and if so they must be looked after often, asi fer- 
mentation is quite rapid and will generally show itself 
soon after they are made, say in a month or six weeks.' 
If they do need attention from that cause, make a little 
syrup and heat, but do not cook as in the first proces>s. 

Cover jellies and jams with tissue paper, double, and 



35^ ^ SAUCEy PRESERVES AND FRUIT JELLIES 

. wet with brandy, pressed close to the conserve before you 
put on the lid. If the jellies are not as firm, after six or 

. ei^ht hours, as you like them to be, set them in the sun 
with piecesof window glass over them. Remove the glass 

; at night and wipe off the moisture which will collect on 
the under side. This will be found to be a much better 
way than boiling, as that injures the flavor and color of 

■ lellies. 

• Citron Preserves. 

Cut the citron in thin slices, boil in water, with a small 
piece of alum until clear and tender, then rinse in cold 
water. Make a syrup of three-fourths pound sugar to 
one pound citron; boil a piece of ginger in the syrup; 
" then pour the citron in and let it boil a few minutes. Put 
in one lemon to Ave citrons. 

Preserved Peaches. 

Select ripe, but not soft peaches. If they are free- 
stones, pour boiling water on them and let them stand for 
five minutes, then pour off, and their skins can easily be 
pulled off; cling-stones must be pared. Extract the stones 
and weigh the peaches, allowing equal weight of sugar 
for the same of peaches. Put in, the kettle, alternately, a 
la^erof sugar, and then of fruit; set it where the sugar 
will slowly melt. Crack one quarter of the stones and 
extract the kernels, break them in pieces and boil in just 
water enough to cover. When the fruit is well heated 
through, put in the sti'ained kernel water and boil tlie 
fruit until tender, take it out and boil the syrup fast until 
clear,^skimming off all the scum. Place the fruit in a 
jar, arfd po:ir over it the boiling syrup. When cold, 
' cover closely, and set in a dry, cool place. 

Preserved Pears 

; Are put up precisely as are peaches, but are only pared, 
not divided. Leave the stems on. 



wiiuce, preserves and fruit jellies. 2$$, 

Preserved Apples. • 

Firm, well flavored pippins or bell-flower apples make 
an excellent preserve, prepared in the same manner as 
quinces. A few quinces cut up among them, or the juice 
of two lemons to every three pounds of fruit improves , 
them. 

Steamed Apples. 

Wash rich flavored apples, take out the cores and leave 
the fruit whole. Steam them in a steamer, until perfectly 
tender, take them out and serve with cream and sugar. 

Baked Pears. 

Take a stone jar and fill it with alternate layers of pears 
^without paring) and sugar, until the jar is full, then pour 
in as much water as the jar will hold. Bake them in an 
oven three hours. They are very nice. 

Preserved Pine Apple. 

Pare, cut into slices, and take out thd core of each. 
Allow equal weight of sugar for the same weight of pine 
apples. Put in alternate layers the sugar and fruit in the 
preserving kettle, allowing a teacupful of water for every 
pound of sugar. Heat to a boil, then remove the apijle. 
Boil and skim the syrup for half an hour. Put the pine 
apple back in the kettle and boil again flfteen minutes. , 
Pack in wide-mouthed jars, and pour over the hot syrup./ 
Cover and when cold, tie up tightly. r 

Preserved Cherries. 

- Stone the cherries and save all the juice. Weigh the , 
fruit and allow pound for pound. Put in the kettle alter- 
nate layers of sugar and fruit, pour over this the juice 
and boil until the syrup thickens. The short stem red 
cherries, or the Morellas are the best for Uiis purpose. 
The sweet cherries are unfit for preserves. : * • '/ 



/as4 8aucb, presbrvbs and fruit jelubs. 

Dried Cherries. 

Pit the cherries and stew gently with a little sugar, iifter 
which spread them on tins and dry gently in the . oven. 
While drying boil down the syrup and pour it over the 
fruit each day, a little at a time. When dry, ^ack in jars 
and paste paper over the top. 

PRiESERVED CrAB ApPLES. 

The red Siberian crab is the best for preserving. Pick 
out those that are nearly perfect, leaving the stems on^ and 
put into a -preserving kettle with enough warm water to 
<2over them. Heat this to boiling, slowly, and simmer un- 
til the skins break. Drain and skin t)iem; then, with a 
!pen-knife, extract the cores through the blossom ends. 
W^igh them; allow a pound and a quarter of sugat and 
'a teacupful of water to every pound of fruit. Boil the 
water and sugar together until the scum xreases to rise; 
put in the fruit, cover the kettle, and simmer until the 
apples are a clear ted, and tender. Take out with a 
skimmer, spread upon dishes to cool and harden; add to 
^he syrup the juice bf one lemon to three pounds of fruit, 
and boil until clear and rich. Fill your jars threfe-quartiers 
Full of itppleii, pour the syrup in, and when cool, tie up. 

Cranberry SaucH. 

Wash and pick a quart of ripe cranberries, and put in- 
to a sauce-pan with a teacupful of water. Stew slowly, 
stirring often until they are thick as marmalade. Cook 
at least an hour and a half. When done, sweeten abund- 
antly with white sugar. If sweetened while cooking, the 
color will be bad. Put them into a mould and set aside 
" to gdt cold. 9 

Cider Apple Sauce. 

If you .wish very sweet sauce, take only sweet apples 
if not, one-third sour and two-thirds sweet. Peel, quartet 
and core the apples; lay them in the sun two or three 



SAUCiCy PRESERVES ANt> fe-Rtlt JEtLlfeS. ^55 

days to prevent the fruit breaking. To 6very pailful of 
apples, put one quart of boiled cider. Boil slowly until 
the fruit becomes a dark mahogany color. To those who 
like the flavor of quinces, two to each pailful, cut tint, 
will be an addition. 

Cherry Sauce. 

Take thoroughly ripe and stoned cherries; pour over 
them melted sugar while. boiling hot, in the proportion of 
half a pound of sugar to a pound^ of cherries. Put them\ 
on ice until cold, when the sauce is ready for the table. 

CURkANtS. . 

Strip them front the stems, and allow a pound of sugar 
to a pound of fruit. Boil together ten minutes. Take 
them from the syrup and let the syrup boil twenty mih- 
utes and pour it on the fruit. Put them in small jars or , 
tumblers and let them stand a few days. 

\ 
Preserved Strawberries. 

Pound for pound. Put them in a preserving kettle over 
a slow fire until the sugar melts. Boil twenty-five minutes, , 
fast Take out the fruit in a perforated skimmer and fill' 
a number of small cans three-quarters full, ^oil and 
skim the syrup five minutes longer, fill up the jars, and 
seal while hot Keep in a cool, dry place. 

klPE TOMAtOES. 

Peel the tomatoes and allow equal quantities of fruit . 
and sugar. Let them stand together over night; in< the 
morning drain off the syrup and boil, skimming well. ' Put ^ 
in the tomatoes and boil gently twenty minutes. Remove 
the tomatoes, and boil the syrup until it thickens, add to 
it the juice of one lemon for every four pounds of friiit 
When ready to put in jars, lay in between the fruit/sliees 
of lemon and pour over it the hot syrup* Cover cl0>sely. > 



§56 8AUCS, PRESERVES AND FRUIT JELLIES 

J 

EoG Plums.^ 

Take the plums ripe, but not very ripe. The skin can 
iisually be pulled off, if not easily, pour on boiling water, 
and instantly turn it orf. Allow equal quantities of fruit 
and sugar, and make the syrup in the usual way. Then 
lay in a few plums at a time, and boil gently five min- 
utes; lay them into a jar as you take them from the kettle, 
and when all are done, pour the boiling syrup over them, 
After two days, drain off the syrup, boil it, and pour it 
upon them again; do this every two or three days till they 
look clear. Then if you wish the syrup to be very thick, 
boil it half an hour, and when cold, pour it upon the 
plums. 

Preserved Green Gages and Large Purple Plumsj. 

Weigh the fruit and scald in boiling water to make the 
skins come off easily. Let them stand in a large bowl an 
hour after they are .peeled, that the juice may exude. 
Drain this off, lay the plums in the kettle, alternately with 
layers of sugar, allowing pound for pound; pour the juice 
over the top and heat slowly to a boil. Take out the 
plums at this point, very carefully, with a perforated 
. skimmer, draining them well through it, and spread upon 
broad dishes in the sun. Boil the syrup until thick and 
clear, skimming it faithfully. Return the plums to this, 
and boil ten minutes. Spread out again until cool and 
firm; keeping the syrup hot on the fire, fill your jars 
three-quarters full with the fruit; pour on the scalding 
syrup, cover to keep in the heat, and, when cold, tie up. 

If you do not care to take the trouble of peeling the 
fruit, prick it in several places with a needle, and proceed 
as directed. 

Damsons, 

Are put up in the same manner as plums, but pricked in- 
stead of skinned 



sauce, preserves and fruit jellies. ^57 

Preserved Figs. 

The weight of ripe figs in sugar. 

Peel of one lemon and juice of two, 

A little ginger. ' ' 

^ Cover the figs with cold water for twelve hours. Then 
simmer in water enough to cover them until tender, and 
spread out upon a sieve to cool and harden. Make a 
syrup of the sugar, and a cup of cold water for every 
pound. Boil until clear of scum; put in the figs and 
simmer ten minutes. Take them out and spread upon 
dishes in the sun. Add the lemons and ginger; boil the 
syrup thick; give the figs another boil of fifteen minutes, 
and fill the jars three-quarters of tlic way to the top. 
Fill up with boiling syrup, cover, and when cold, seal up. 

Preserved Orange Peel. 

Weigh the oranges whole, and allow pound for pound. 
Peel the fruit neatly, and cuj the rind mto narrow strips. 
Boil until tender, changing the water twice, and replen- 
ishing with hot from the kettle. Squeeze the strained 
juice of the oranges over the sugar; let this heat to a boil; 
put in the strips and boil twenty minutes. 

Lemon peel can be preserved in the same way, allowing 
more sugar. 

Peach Butter. 

Select very ripe peaches, peel, remove the pits, and mash 
them; have ready rich, sweet cider, reduced by boiling to 
the consistency of molasses (or four gallons to one); add 
to each gallon, after boiling, one pound of sugar; simmer 
the peaches in the cider and sugar until the whole is re- 
duced to paste; allow a pint of the molasses and sugar, 
to three quarts of the mashed fruit. This is a southern , 
mode of preserving peaches, and is very excellent; it ii:, 
used in the same manner as cider apple sauce. 
33 



35^ 8aucb, preserves and fruit jellies. 

Apple Butter. ' 

Boil down a kettleful of sweet cider to two-thirds the 
original quantity. Pare, core and slice juicy apples, and 
put as many iijto the cider as it will cover. Boil slowly, 
stirring often with aflat stick, and when the apples are 
tender to breaking, take them out with a perforated skim- 
^mer, draining well against the sides of the kettle. Put in 
'some more apples, as many as the cider will hold, and stew 
them soft. Take from the lire, pour all together into a 
tub or large crock; cover and let it stand twelve hours. 
Then return to the kettle and boil down, stirring all the 
; while, until it is the consistency of soft soap and brown 
in color; spice with cloves, allspice and cinnamon, if it is 
agreeable, being careful not to have one spice predomi- 
nate over the others. Keep in stone jars, m a dry, cool, 
place. 

Preserved Watermelon Rinds. 

,- Peel the melon, and boil in just enough water to cover 
■- it till it i? soft, trying with a fork. (If you wish it green, 
put green vine leaves above and below each layer, and 
scatter powdered alum, less than ^ teaspoonful to each 
pound). Allow a pound of sugar to each pound of rind, 
made into a syrup; simmer the rinds two hours in this 
sjrrup,^ and flavor with lemon peel tied in a bag. Put the 
nnds in a dish, and boil the syrup till it looks thick, and 

Eour over the rinds. Next day give the syrup another 
oiling, and add juice of one lemon, to each quart of 
syrup. Take care not to make it bitter by too much of 
the peel. 

Citrons can be preserved in the same way. Both these 
keep through the hot weather with very little care in seal- 
ing and keeping. 

Preserved Quinces and Sweet Apples. 

Equal parts quinces and apples. 

^ of a pound of sugar to one of fruit 

Pare, quarter and core both quinces and apples. Cook 



SAUCE, rRESfiUVES AND FRUIT JELLIES. 259 

the quince (and apple if you wish) parings and cores in 
water sufficient to dissolve the sugar. Steam in a steamer 
the fruit, a little at a time, until it can be pierced with a 
straw. The quince will need much longer steaming than 
the apple, as it is very hard. AVhen the syrup is scalding 
(not boiling), put the steamed fruit in it and let it remain 
till the next lot is ready and then put in the Jar. It is 
better to put alternate layers of apple and quince. When 
the fruit is all scalded, pour over the syrup. 

OlaciCrerry Jam. 

Boil and strain one-third of the berries you expect to 
use; add to this juice as many pints of sugar as you have 
pints of fruit remaining, and let it dissolve over the fire; ' 
put in the berries and let it cook until the juice is a jelly; 
mash the berries and take off; seal up in cans. 

Raspberry Jam. 

J^ pound of sugar to every pound of fruit. 

Put the fruit on alone, or with the addition of a pint of 
currant juice to every four pounds of fruit. Boil half . 
an hour, mashing and stirring well. Add the su^ar, and 
f:ook twenty minutes more. 

Strawberry Jam. 

For every pound of fruit three-quarters of a ^und of 
sugar. : , 

I pint red currant juice to every 4 pounds of straw- 
berries. . 

Boil the juice of th« currants with the strawberries ■ 
half an hour, stirring all the time. Add the sugar, and 
boil up rapidly for about twenty minutes, skimming care- 
fully. Put in small jars, with brandied tissue-paper over J 
the top. The currant juice can be omitted, but the flavor '[ 
will not be so fine. ' / ^ \ ^ 

' ■ ' ■ ■ ' ■■•''■ ,i\ ~ '• • 



96o SAUCE, PRESERVES AND FRUIT JELLIES. 



¥ 



r 



Grape Jam. 

Separate the skins from the pulp, keeping them in sep* 
arate dishes; heat the pulp in a preserving kettle with a 
teacup of water; when heated through, press them through 
a colander to separate the seeds, add the skins to the pulp, 
and weigh; to each pound of frui( add three-fourths of a 
pound of. sugar, and just enough water to keep from bum- 
mg; cook slowly for three-quarters of an hour. 

^ Goosederry Jam 

Is made in the same manner as raspberry, only the cur- 
rant juice is omitted, and the gooseberries are boiled one 
hour without the sugar, and another after it is put in.^ 
The fruit must be ripe, 

Currant, Blackberry, Strawberry, etc. 

Put the fruit in a stone jar and set the jar in a kettle of , 

- tepid water over the fire. Keep it closely covered, and boil 
till the fruit is broken in pieces. Then strain, by pressing it 

- through a stout coarse bag; do not put in but a few hand* 
fuls of fruit at a time, turn out the pulp, skins and seeds 

' between each squeezing. To each pint of juice allow a 
^ pound of sugar. Set the juice on alone to boil, and while 
It is warming, put the sugar in shallow pans in the oven 
to heat; stir the sugar often to prevent burning. Boil the 
juice Hveniy minutes from the time it be^ns to boil. Throw 
the hot suear into the boiling juice stirring rapidly. The 
sugar will hiss" as it falls in and will quickly melt. If 
the sugar should be burned about the edges, it will form 
lumps which can easily be taken out. Take out the spoon 
when the sugar has dissolved. Let the jelly come to a 
boil, and take instantly from the fire. Roll your glass or 
cups in hot water, and fill with the hot liquid. If the 
jellies do not harden as well as you like, follow directions 
given in general directions for preserves and fruit jellies. 
Strawberry jelly should have a little lemon juice added 
to that of the fruit. Strawberry, raspberry and blackberry 



SAUCE, PRESERVES AND FRUIT JELLIES. 36i 

jellies are apt to be less firm than those made from more 
acid fruity but do not boil. 



Quince Jelly. 

Pare and slice the quinces, and add for every five pounds 
of fruit a cup of water. Put peelings, cores, and all into 
a stone jar; set this in a pot of boiling water, and when 
the fruit is soft and broken, proceed as with other jellies. 

Crab Apple Jelly. 

^ Siberian crab apples are the best for jelly. Cut into 
pieces without paring or removing the seeds, as the latter 
^ve a pleasant flavor to the fruit. Put in a jar with very 
little water and place the jar in a kettle of hot water; let 
it boil eight hours. Leave in the jar over night closely 
covered; in the morning squeeze out the juice allowing 
for every pint of juice a pound of sugar, then proceed at 
yrith other jelly. 

Currant Jelly. 

Take ripe currants (gathered if possible when the 
weather has been dry a week), remove leaves and imper^ 
feet fruit without picking the currants off the stems, mash 
thoroughly, and strain through a strong cloth or jelly bag 
(much depends upon pressing out all the juice, as that 
which is expressed with the greatest difficulty is the best, 
,and helps most in forming the jelly). To each pint of 
juice take one pound of sugar; put the juice into a po 
celain kettle over the fire, and at the same time set XL 
sugar into a not too hot oven to dry and heat; it should b^ 
stirred often to prevent browning. Heat the juice slowly, '.. 
let it boil five minutes, and then stir in the hot sugar and 
boil together just one minute; remove from the fire, and 
fill the glasses and bowls immediately, or the jelly i will 
form before they can be filled. ' ' V; 



962 saucsy preserves and pruit jellies. 

Raspberry and Currant Jelly. 

To four quarts red, or black raspberries, put two quarts 
of red currants; then proceed as with any other berry 
jelly. The flavor is delicious. 

Green Grape Jelly 

Is made like currant jelly, only allowing a pound and a 
half of sugar to a pint of juice. 

Ripe grapes require but a pound for a pint. 

Apple Jelly. 

Take nice, .green apples that will cook nicely; quarter 
the apples without paring, put them in a pan or kettle and 
cover over with water, and keep them covered; let them 
boil slowly until entirely done; then put in a bag and 
drain (not squeeze^ them. Allow a pound Of sugar to a 
pint of juice. This is very easily made in the winter. 

Wild Plum Jelly. 

Boil one gallon of plums in a quart of water, until they 
break open, then proceed as with other fruit. Allow one 
pound of sugar for one pint of juice. Boil the juice 
about fifteen minutes, then add the heated sugar and boil 
up. 

Crab Apple Marmalade. 

Stew the apples in just enough water to prevent them 
from burning. Rub them through a sieve as soon as they 
are soft, and to each pound of the pulp put a pound of 
white sugar. Return them to the kettle and stew slowly, 
stirring all the time until thick. Put a spoonful of the 
marmalade upon the ice; if it cuts smooth when perfectly 
cold, it is ready to take up. 

Sweet Apple Marmalade. 

This is made by boiling sweet apples alone in cider 
made of sweet apples, and boiled down so as to be very 



SAUCE, PKESERVES AND FRUIT JELLIES. 263 

rich. Strain through a very coarse sieve or riddle, and 
boil again a little while. 

Wild Plum Marmalade. 

Strain the juice and pulp through a wire sieve; add as 
much sugar as you have strained pulp; boil well, stirring 
constantly to prevent burning to the kettle. 

Peach Marmalade. 

f 

When the fruit is pared, stoned and weighed, heat slow- 
ly to draw out the juice, stirring up often from the bot- 
tom. After it is hot, boil quickly, still stirring, three quar- 
ters of an hour. Then add the sugar, allowing three- 
quarters of a pound to each pound of the fruit. Boil 
well for five minutes, removing every bit of scum. Add 
the juice of one lemon, for every three pounds of fruit, 
and the water in which one quarter of the kernels have 
been boiled and steeped. Stew altogether ten minutes, 
stirring to a smooth paste, and take from the fire. Spread 
tissue paper, wet with brandy, over the top of the marma- 
lade. 

Pear Marmalade. 

6 good sized pears boiled to a pulp. 

}^ their weight in sugar made into a «yrup. 

Add the pulp and boil a few minutes. Put in foui 
drops of essence of cloves. When cold it is ready foi 
use. 

Quince Marmalade. 

Peel, core, and slice the quinces, stewing the skins, cores 
and seeds in a vessel by themselves, with just enough water - 
to cover t\jem. When the flavor has been extracted, and 
the parings are broken to pieces, strain through a thick 
cloth. Put the quinces into the preserve kettle; when this 
water is almost cold pour it over them and boil, stirring 
and mashing the fruit with a wooden spoon as it becomes 
soft. Add the juice of two oranges to every three pounds 
of fruit. When all is reduced to a smooth paste, add a 



S64 jpAUCSy PRESERVES AND FRUIT JELLIES. 

scant three-quarters of a pound of sugar for every pound 
of fruit; boil ten minutes more, stirring constantly. When 
cool, put into small jars, with brandied papers over them. 

Grape Marmalade. 

Take the cooked grapes, rub through a fine colander, 
measure the pulp, and add the same amount of good coffee 
sugar. Cook until stiff; turn into cups, and cover with 
bi;andied paper. 

CANNED FRUITS. 



Canned fruits have within a few years taken the place 
of preserved fruits and are cheaper and much more whole- 
some and less difficult to prepare. A little attention will 
soon insure success in the art of canning fruit which for 
richness of flavor far surpasses the canned fruit which is 
sent out from the various factories. 

If glass cans are used, which are much better for the 

Curpose than tin ones, be careful to see that the rubber 
ands fit tight, and that there is no crack in the can. If 
they crack after the fruit is put in, the fruit will not keep; 
this may be prevented in almost every case by immersing 
the can in hot water and keeping them in it till you are 
ready to put the fruit in. When the fruit is sealed, wrap 
two or three papers round the cans to exclude the light, 
as the chemical action of light will change the quality and 
color of the fruit. 

If tin cans are used, which are closed with rosin and 
soldering, they should be heated as glass cans when ready 
for the fruit, and care should be taken that no rosin drops 
through the aperture left in the top for the air to escape, 
as a single drop of rosin will often make the whole can 
bitter. Be careful in opening cans closed in this way that 
none of the rosin gets into the can. Cans can be easily 
closed with cement, the directions for which will be found 
elsewhere. Keep your cans, if glass or tin, in a cool, dark 
place. In canning fruit a good rule is to prepare a syrup 



CANNED FRUITS. 265 

of sugar and water, in pro[)ortion of one quarter of a 
pound of sugar to a pound of fruit; lay the fruit in, and 
bring to boiling heat; fill the cans full to overflowing, as 
the fruit will shrink as it cools, and instantly coVer, then 
remove the cans from the hot water in which they have 
been standing, and when cool are ready to be packed 
away. A good way in large fruit, such as apples, pears, 
etc.,- is to put them in a steamer, with a cloth in the bottom, 
and steam until they can be pierced with a fork, have the* 
syrup ready, dip each piece in it, and quickly fill the cans; 
when through, pour the hot .syrup over the fruit and seal 
quickly'. The amount of sugar to be used depends upon 
the acidity of the fruit. A wide mouthed tunnel and a 
small dipper with perpendicular handle facilitates all fruit 
canning very much. * • 

Canned Berries. 

Put in a large kettle, and heat slowly to boiling, then 
add sugar, in the proportion of one tablespoonful to each 
quart of fruit. If there is much juice in the kettle, dip 
out the sur])lus, aiid leave the berries nearly dry before 
adding \\\e sugar, for there will be syrup enough. Boil 
together fifteen minutes, then can. Strawberries, rasp- 
berries, cherries, currants, blackberries, grapes, etc., put 
up in this way, make very nice pies, and are good eaten 
as preserves. 

Canned Pine Applje. 

6 pounds of fruit (after being cut). 

2}4 ])ounds of sugar. 

3 pints of water. z 

Make a syrup of sugar and water and boil five minutes, 
and skim or strain if necessary. Then add the fruit, and 
let it boil up; have cans hot, fill and shut up as soon as 
possible. As the cans cool, keep tightening them up. 

Canned Peaches. I 

The large free-stones are the best for this purpose. 
They should be ripe, but not soft. Pare, and extract the , 



266' CANNED FRUITS, 

Stone, breaking the ffuit as little as possible. Allow a 
tablespoonful of sugar, or a little more to a pound of 
fniit. ' Put a very little water in the kettle to prevent the 
fruit from scorching, then fill with the fruit. Be sure that 
all is well heated through. A few kernels put in each 
can) improves the flavor 

Canned Plums. 

• Prepare a syrup, allowing a gill of water and one-fourth 

of a pound of sugar, for every pound of fruit. Dissolve 

the sugar and put in the plums; prick them to prevent 

^ bursting. Heat slowly to a boil. Boil five minutes, then 

' fill the cans, and pour in the hot syrup and seal. 

Green gages are nice canned in the same way. 

Canned Pears. 

Make a syrup, allowing a pint of water and a quarter 
of a pound of sugar to a pound of fruit. Peel the pears, 
and, if large, quarter and remove the cores, and drop 
them into water as soon as pared. As soon as the syrup 
comes to a boil, put in the pears and boil till they can be 
pierced with a fork, and look clear. Have the cans ready 
hot, and when filled with fruit, fill them with the hot 
syrup. If the pears are small and hard, they must be 
boiled in water until tender, before putting them in the 
hot syrup. 

Canned Tomatoes. 

Pour boiling water over the tomatoes, to loosen the 
skins. Remove these, strain off all the juice that will 
come away without pressing hard; put them into a kettle 
and heat slowly to a boil. Your tomatoes will look much 
nicer if you remove all the hard parts before putting tlrem 
on the fire, and rub the pulp soft with your hands. Coil 
ten minutes, dip out the surplus liquid, pour tJie tomatoes 
boiling hot into the cans, and seal. Keep in a cool, dark 
place. 



ADDITIOHAL RECIPES* «^7 

Tomato Butter. 
9 pints ripe tomatoes, peeled aid mashed. 
I pint vinegar. 
3 pounds brown supar. 
I tabiespoonful of cloves. 

spiccs alter it is cooUU, 



/ 

S6S ADDITIONAL RBCIPES. 



ADDITIONAL RECIPES. 369 



; 27.0 ADDITIONAL RBCIPKS. 



CONFECTIONERY. 

Clarification of Sugar. : 

Take the white of. one egg for brown sugar, and one- 
half the white for white sugar. Put with the white of ,. 
the egg one pint of water, and beat it to a froth; then 
put it in the kettle and turn the sugar on top, so that the 
water may pass through the sugar in rising. To twelve 
pounds of sugar take one quart of water. Stir it lightly, 
to loosen the sugar. Put the kettle over the fire and stir 
once more. As soon as it boils add a little more water, 
take it from the fire and skim off the froth which will 
rise. Repeat the boiling and skimming till the froth is 
colorless. 

Boiling Sugar. 

If a pound of refined sugar be dissolved in three gills 
of water, and clarified as above, it will in boiling pass 
through the various changes or degrees described m the 
succeeding part of th.e directions. 

\5t Degree^ is called the Thread or Lisse, This is as- 
certained by dipping the finger first in cold water then 
into the hot sugar and quickly back into the cold water, 
when the sugar on the finger will stretch into a thread, the 
length of which depends on the length of time the sugar ' 
has been boiling. . . 

2d Degree is The Pearl, This takes place when the 
sugar has been boiled a few mihutes longer. Small bub- 
bles will rise to the surface which look like pearls. These 
will increase in size and number the longer it is boiled. 
If tried as before, the thread will snap quickly when \ 
drawn out. Syrups are boiled to this degree- * ' 



MJi CONFECTIONBRY. 

■ X \- ' 

'$d j!)egree is The Blatv, If the boiling is continued a 

few minutes longer, and the skimmer is dipped into the 

sugar and then blown upon, the sugar will form itself 

. into small globules on the back, which gives the name to 

the degree. 

^th Degree is The Feather, This degree is ascertained 
by dipping the skimmer into the sugar and shakinj; it, the 
sugar will form on the edge like a fringe. 

$th Degree h The Bail,' When, by dropping the sugar 
into cold water, it can be made into a ball by rolling it on 
the hand, it has reached this decree. # 

6th Degree is The Crack. This degree is reached when 
it has been boiled sufficiently that when tried as in the 
first degree, it will draw in a thread and break quickly, 
and be hard and dry. Taffy, lemon, twist and cream 
candies are boiled to this degree. 

7/// Degree is The Caramel or Hard-baked, As soon as 
the sugar begins to give out a strong, acid odo.r and grows 
more or less dark colored, it has reached this last degree. 
This is the degree for caramels and cocoanut candies. 
• ' When boiled hard enough, the candy is poured upon 
an oiled, marble slab, a smooth piece of thick tin will an- 
swer nearly as well, and then cut into small pieces, which 
are drawn out into sticks of the desired size. Candy 
lumps are made by cutting the sticks into small lumps with 
a sharp knife before they are cold. 

Flavoring and Coloring. 

The flavoring and coloring matter should never be 
Mledy but should be added just as it is about to be taken 
^rom the fire. Boiling destroys the fineness of the flavor, 
and brilliancy of the color. White candy may easily be 
stripped or decorated with colored designs, by taking a lit- 
tle of the syrup from the kettle while yet soft, and color- 
ing as may be desired; then boil the remainder brittle, cut 
into lumps or sticks, and then stripe on the outside with 
the soft, colored Wndy. 

All mineral substance, except pure ultra marine and 



CONFECTIONERY. ^ , J^J3 

Prussian blue, are poisonous. Brilliant colors can be pro- 
duced without using poisonous substances. For red, use 
cochineal, carmine or Brazil-wood; for blue, Prussian blue, 
blue lake, indigo precipitate and pure ultra marine; for 
yellow, saffron, marigold and turmeric. All of these, 
which are but a few of the many used, mix well to pro- 
duce different shades, and are harmless. If one-half tea- 
spoon of soda be used for one quart of molasses it will 
make that kind of candy much whiter and tenderer. 

EvERTON Taffy. 

3 ounces butter melted. 

I pound of brown sugar. 

Grated rind of a lemon or teaspoon of ginger. 

Boil the mixture over a clear fire until the syrup, when 
dropped into cold water, breaks between the teeth, with- 
out adhering to them. Fifteen minutes is usually long 
enough for boiling. Pour into buttered pans. If lemon > 
peel IS used, put it in when the sugar is half done; if, gin- 
ger is used, stir it in when the sugar is dissolved. 

Almond Taf^y. 

. 5 ounces butter, melted* 

1 pound brown sugar. 

2 ounces of almonds. 

The almonds must be blanched, split and- thoroughly 
dried in a slow oven. Peanuts, hickory nuts or cocoanut 
may be substituted for almonds. Lemon or rose water 
used for flavoring. Boil the mixture to caramel, then pour 
quickly into buttered pans. A single minute suffices to 
burn and spoil the candy at this stage. 

Best White Molasses Candy. 

I pound granulated sugar. 

I pint Stewart's syrup. 

Boil till quite thick when dropped into cold water. 
-Then add i pint best Porto Rico molasses., 
, 3 or 4 tablespoonfuls vinegar. 



274 CONFECTIONERY. 

\t • . . 

i Boil to the snap, remove from the fire and stir in quick- 
ly one-half a small tablespoonful soda, and flavor with 
essence of lemon. Pour on the slab and work white. 
This makes a better candy than that which Is usually sold 
by confectioners. Good candy can be made in this way 
by using all Porto Rico molasses; it can also be made 
with no sugar. 

Cream Candy. 

% pound loaf sugar. 

I gill water. 

Set it over a slow fire for half an hour, then add 

J^ teaspoonful gum arabic (dissolved). 

l4 tablespoon of vinegar. 

Boil till it is brittle, then take off and flavor to suit your 
taste, Rub the hands with sweet butter and pull the 
candy till it is white, after which cut in any shape desired. 

Common Lemon Candy. 

I pound of brown sugar (clarified). 

Extract of lemon or lemon juice; if wanted especially 
sour use a little tartaric acid. 

Peppermint, rose or hoarhound may ])e used instead of 
lemon. Boil till it is brittle, pour on buttered pans or on 
a slab, and cut it in sticks. 

Caramels. 

Boil clarified sugar till it is very brittle and has a slight 
odor of burning. Pour it on the slab. As soon as cool 
enough to receive an impression with the finger, stamping 
it in small squares, about an inch in size, with a caramel 
mould. Turn over the mass, wipe the bottom to remove 
any oil that may adhere to it, put it in a dry place to harden. 
If you have no caramel mould it can be scored with a 
knife, after which they are glazed with another coating of 
' sugar. Caramels should be kept tightly closed. > 



confectionery. *7s 

Lemon Caramels. 






Prepare the synip as for caramels; when nearly done 
add the lemon which has been prepared by gratmg the 
yellow peel with a lump of sugar and to the grated peel a 
few drops of the juice with water enough to dissolve the 
sugar completely, stir this in a few minutes before taking 
from the fire. Orange and Lime caramels are prepared 
in the same way from these fruits. 

Coffee Caramel. 

2 ounces coffee. 

1 pound sugar. 

Make an infusion of the coffee using as little water as 
possible, strain it through a cloth and stir gradually into 
the boiled syrup a few minutes before taking it from the 
fire. 

Chocolate Carameu 

j4 pound chocolate. 

2 cups sugar. ' . 
^ cup milk. 

Small lump of butter. 

Scrape the chocolate in the milk, add it to the boiled 
sugar and stir in the butter, same as in coffee carameL 

Cream Coffee Caramels. 

2 pounds sugar. 

1 cup cream. 

2 ounces butter. 
2 ounces coffee. 

Boil the sugar in a large sauce-pan to give room for ex- 
pansion. As soon as it begins to bubble, stir in the cream 
very slowly; add next the butter, then the coffee infused 
with a little butter. "Stir constantly over a good fire. , 
When the syrup is brittle and has a slight odor of caramel, 
pour it on*a slab, let it cool and imprint with a caramel 
mould. * 



9j6 ' CONFECTIONERY. 

Cream Chocolate Caramel. 

2 pounds sugar. 

4 ounces chocolate. 

2 ounces butter. 

I cup cream. 

Made the same as cream coffee carameL 

Ginger Candy Tablets. 

I pound loaf sugar. 

Juice of half a lemon, or a few drops of acetic acid. 

I dessert spoonful essence of Jamaica ginger. 

Take just enough water to dissolve the sugar, and boil 
it to the ball degree; then add the acid and essence. Rub 
the sugar with the back of the bowl of a silver spoon 
against the sides of the kettle, until it is whitened or 
grained, and somewhat resembles an opal in Color. Aftei 
the sugar has been so worked pour it immediately intc 
very small moulds measuring half an inch or an incl 
square,' a tin pan which is divided into small squares can 
be used; when the candy has dried, it can then be snapped 
apart into the tablets. Smear the moulds slightly with oil 
of almonds. The tablets should be dried hard under a 
screen for half an hour. 

Vanilla Candy Tablets. 

I pound loaf sugar. 

A few drops essence of vanilla; 

A few drops acetic acid. 

No color. Made same as ginger candy tablets. 

Cinnamon Candy Tablets. 

X pound loaf sugar. • 

A few drops essence cinnamon. 

Boil the sugar to the crack. This may be celored rose- 
pink. The color is added while the sugar is boiling. 



confectionery. ' '77 

Nut Candy. 

2 cups sugar. 
I table spoon vinegar. 

I cup nuts. ^ N * ' 

Piece of butter size of a walnut. 
Tartaric acid size of a small bean. 
Boil twenty minutes, stirring all the time. Stir in the 
nuts when ready to pour out. 



DRINKS. 

Tea. 

Tea consists of the prepared leaves of the tea plant, a 
hardy shrub 'which grows from three to six feet, high, 
chiefly in China. 

The plant is raised from the seed, and matures in from 
two to three years, yielding usually three crops of leaves 
each season. The leaves are picked by hand in May and 
June. The plant yields leaves from four to six seasons. 

Many varieties of tea of all grades of quality are known 
in the market. These depend first upon the soil, climate, 
culture, etc., of the locality where it is grown. Second^ 
upon the time of picking; the young leaves that are first 
gathered being tender and delicate, while the second and 
third are more bitter, tough and woody. Thirds the mode 
of treatment or preparation, which consists in drying and 
roasting and rolling in the hand, by which the leaves ac- 
quire their twisted appearance, and finally, sifting and 
winnowing. 

All the different varieties of tea are classed as either 
green or black. , \Vliat constituted the real difference was 
long a matter of doubt. It was first supposed that they 
came from different species «c>f plants, but the latest ac* 
counts agree that they come from the same species, but 
differ on account of being differently treated. 

Green tea is cultivated in manured soil. The leaves 
are steamed, withered and roasted, almost immediately af- 
ter gathering. They are dried quickly after the rolling 
process, the whole operation being brief and simple. 

Black tea is grown chiefly on the slopes of hills and 
ledges of mountains. The leaves are allowed to be spread 



DRINKS. 279 

out in the air for some time after tl^ey are gathered, and 
are then tossed about until they become soft and flaccid, 
the^ are then roasted for a few minutes and rolled, after 
which they are exposed to the air a few hours, in a soft, 
moist state, and lastly, are slowly dried over a charcoal 
fire. 

Green tea gives up much less of its juice in the drying 
process, which explains its more energetic action upon the 
nervous system. 

The most important teas of commerce are arranged 
according to their grade, and price per pound paid for 
them in Canton: 



Green Teas. 




Black Teas. 


Twangay, 18 to 27 


cts. 


Bohea, 


12 to 18 cts. 


Hyson Skin, 18 "30 


it 


Congou, 


22 '* 2$ " 


Young Hyson, 27 " 40 


it 


Campoi, 


22 "30 'V 


Hyson, 40 " 56 


It 


Souchong, 


"^!! 35 :: 


Imperial, 45 " 58 


tt 


Caper, 


20 40 " 


Gunpowder, 45 " 60 


« 


Pekoe, 


35 " 75 " 



The Chinese method of making tea is to throw some 
tea into a cup and pour boiling water over it, then cover 
the cup with a shallow saucer, and let it rest for some 
time. . After standing sufficiently they pour the de^r 
liquid into a saucer and drink it hot. Various methods 
are pursued in different countries, but it is desirable to 
obtain from the leaves the largest amount of matter which 
water will extract and retain in the liquid, therefore the' 
best plan is to pour boiling water upon the tea in a close 
vessel and let it gently heat for a few minutes. 

Teas of all sorts are liable to the grossest adulterations. 
Green teas are extensively stained or painted by the Chi- 
nese to heighten their green color. Other leaves are often 
mixed with the tea leaves. A crude and worthless prep- 
aration of sweepings, dust, sand, leaves and other impu- 
rities of the tea warehouse, are cemented together with 
pum or rice water, which the Chinese honestly call //V Ua, 
IS employed to mix with other tea. ^ 



aSo DRINKS. 

In England, exhausted leaves are bought up and their i 
astringent property restored by the addition ot catachu 
(a tanning extract), and colored with black lead, logwood, 
etc., and sold as genuine tea. These adulterations are 
carried on so extensively, that it is said we fi€ver get pure 
green tea. 

To detect indigo or Prussian blue in tea, let a portion 
of it be shaken with cold water and thrown upon a bit of 
muslin, the fine coloring matter will pass through the 
muslin and settle to the bottom of the water. When the 
water is poured off, the blue matter may be treated with 
a solution of chloride of lime. If it is bleached, the col- 
oring matter is indigo. If potash makes it brown, and 
afterwards a few drops of sulphuric acid make it blue 
again, it is Prussian blue. 

Dr. Edward Smith says: "The conclusions at which we 
arrived after our researches in 1858, were that tea should 
not be taken without food, unless after a full meal; or with 
insufficient food, or by the young or very feeble, and that 
its essential action is to waste the system, or consume food 
by promoting vital action which it does not support, and 
they have not been disproved by any subsequent scientific 
researches." He also says: "The perceptible effects of 
full doses of tea, which are generally, if not universally, 
admitted are: 

ist. A sense of wakefulness. 

2d. Clearness of mind, and activity of thought and 
imagination. 

3d. Increased disposition to muscular exertion. 

4th. Reaction, with sense of exhaustion in the morn- 
ing following the preceding efforts, and in proportion to 
them." 

. Tea is a strong narcotic, and like all other narcotics 
produces a morbid state of brain and nervous system. 
It is especially hurtful to persons of a nervous tempera- 
ment, and to growing children of this constitution it should 
be strictly denied. Dr. Settson declares that it is the 
main cause of scrofula. Those to whom it is best suited 
are the plethoric and sanguine. It is used with benefit as 



DRINKS. ,2Si 

a common drink at the commencement of fevers, and in* 
flammatory complaints. Persons of gouty and rheumatic 
natures find weak tea one of the least objectionable of all 
drinks. Some cases of severe nervous headache may be 
relieved by a cup of strong green tea. 

Coffee. 

The coffee plant was orfginally a native of Arabia and 
Abyssinia, but has been naturalized over a large part of 
the tropics. It is supposed to have been introduced into 
the new world by the French in 1717, who first planted it 
in the island of Martinique. On examining the present 
state of coffee production throughout the world, we find 
it has undergone great revolutions within the past thirty 
years. 

Thus Brazil, which at the beginning of the century was 
hardly known in the coffee market, now furnishes nearly 
as much as all the rest of the world beside. 

Java ranks next to Brazil among coffee producing coun- 
tries. According to Agassiz, " more than half the ^ coffee 
produced by the world is of Brazilian growth. And yet 
the coffee of Brazil has little reputation simply because a 
great deal of the best produce of Brazilian plantations is 
sold under, the name of Mocha or Java, as coffee of Mar- 
tinique or Bourbon. A great part of the coffee which is 
bought under those names, or under that of Java coffee, 
is Brazilian, while the so called Mocha coffee is often 
nothing but the small round beans of the Brazilian plant, 
found at the summit of the branches, and very carefully 
selected." The plant requires a deep, good soil, with 
plenty of moisture, and a temperature not lower than 65°, 
and IS usually grown on a hillside very much after the 
manner of the tea plant. 

The plant is very prolific for it remains in flower during 
eight months of the year, and produces a succession of; 
crops of fruit, so that there are usually three harvests an* 
ually, but at the same time the fruit is in all stages of de- 
velopment, and the picking of it requires great care* 
j6 ^ • / 



983 " DRINKS. 

AVhen left to a free growth of nature, the tree attains a 
hight of fifteen to twenty feet, but when cultivated, it is 
pruned so as to remain about six feet, by which process it 
throws out a large quantity of branches at its lower part, 
and produces more fruit. Its leaves are opposite, ever- 
grcien, and not unlike those of the bay tree. Its blossoms 
are white, resembling the flower of the jasmine. The 
fruit is called a bean, or berry, but the former is the more 
correct expression. The beans • are in pairs, which are 
, placed face to face in a hard, leathery skin, surrounded 
by a fleshy covering, somewhat resembling the cherry. 
After the thick pulp has been removed, the seeds are left 
in a cistern till fermentation sets in, the mucilage is then 
washed off, and the coffee is in a fit state to be taken to . 
the drying ground. 

Much of the superior quality of the coffee from Mo- 
cha is attributable to the slower method of drying, which 
is done by allowing the berries to remain in the sun; but 
in the larger plantations of Brazil, it is necessary to resort 
to quicker means of freeing the beans from their cover- 
ings, which is performed by machinery. 

The object of roasting is not only to make it more easy 
to crush or grind but also to create or develop an aromatic 
volatile oil, and care must be taken in the roasting that 
the goodreffects of the latter may not be destroyed by 
burning the substance of the bean. The natural color of 
the bean is a dull, pale green, but in roasting, it acquires 
three colors according to the degree, viz: yellowish-brown, 
chestnut-brown and black. The proper degree of roast- 
ing is that of chestnut-brown, and when the color ap- 
, preaches black, it gives a burnt, dry flavor to the infusion. 

The modes of preparing the beverage are almost infinite, 
but all should combme two principles, namely, to extract 
the greatest amount of aroma and body, and to render 
the fluid quite clear and separate from the grounds. 
. Ground coffee is very extensively adulterated. Various 
substances are employed for this purpose, as roasted peas, 
beans and corn, and dried and roasted roots, such as tur- 
nips, carrots, potatoes, etc. But the most common adul- 



DRINKS. 383 

terant is chiccory, a plant of the dandelion tribe, which 
has a large, white, parsnip-like root abounding in a bitter 
juice. 

Cheats in coffee may be quite easily detected by pour- 
ing cold water upon the coffee, if pure, the liquid acquires 
color very slowly, and does not become very deep after 
remaining in the water for a considerable time. If chic- 
cory root is used, it quickly becomes a deep brown, and 
in a short time becomes very dark; with boiling water the 
change is more quickly seen. The mixture of burnt and 
ground peas and beans is not so quickly seen, and the 
most certain method is by examining the coffee through a 
microscope. 

Coffee acts upon the brain as a stimulant, inciting it to 
increased .activity, and producing sleeplessness; hence it 
is of great value as. an antidote to narcotic poisons. Cof- 
fee, unlike tea, does not increase the vaporising actioiji of , 
the skin, but decreases it, and therefore dries the skin. It 
increases the action of the heart, and the fullness of the 
pulse, and excites the mucous membranes. It is more fit-, 
ted than tea' for the poor and feeble. It is also more fit- 
ted for breakfast, inasmuch as the skin is active, and the 
heart's action feeble; whilst in good health and with suf-. 
ficient food, it is not needful after dinner; but if drank, 
should be taken soon after the meal. There probably is 
not the same degree of reaction after taking strong coffee' 
as follows strong tea, and none of these effects may bef, 
marked, if the infusion be very weak. ■ , ^ 

Cocoa and Chocolate. 

These are closely allied to tea and coffee, as respiratory ^ 
/excitants, and are valuable as food, as they possess a large ^ 
amount of fat, which is its chief nutritive element, as well ' 
as other food materials. . ;•' 

Chocolate is produced from the seeds of the cocoa 
palm. The seeds are inclosed in a fruit somewhat re- ^ 
sembling the cucumber in size. They are about the size,' j 
of an almond, and when extracted are reduced to a pow- / . 



M4 DRINKS. , 

der, after which they are mixed with sugar and rolled in-/ 
to a very thick paste, which takes the name chocolate. 

Cocoa nibs are the nuts roughly broken, and may be 
boiled in tjiat state, but it is necessary to boil them for 
several hours to exti^act the strength from them. 

Coffee. {To Make.) 

Delmonico uses one and one-half pounds of coffee to a 
gallon of water, pouring the hot water on the coffee which 
"^ IS placed on a strainer. The coffee is never boiled. An- 
other method, better adaptqd for family use, is to allow 
one heaping tablespoonful of ground coffee for every per- 
son, and if wished quite strong, two extra spoonfuls for 
the pot. Mix with the ground coffee a part or whole of 
an egg, according to the amount made. Pour over half 
as much water as you need. Let the coffee froth up, then 
stir down the grounds and let it boil three minutes; then 
set it where it will keep hot — not boil — for fifteen or twen- 
ty minutes longer. Those who use the " National Coffee 
Pot" need to keep it over the fire a longer time, and will 
hive most delicately flavored coffee. A mixture of three- 
fourths Java and one-fourth Mocha is a most excellent 
mixture. Keep the coffee closely covered when making. 

Tea. {To a fake.) 

Allow one teaspoon ful of tea to each cup. Have the 
water in the teakettle boiling when poured on the tea. 
Cover the teapot closely, and let it set where it will keep 
hot ten or fifteen minutes, then add more boiling water. 
Keep the teapot sweet and clean. 

Chocolate. {To Make.) 

6 tablespoonfuls grated chocolate to each pint of water, 
with the same quantity of milk as water. Sweeten to 
taste. Rub the chocolate smooth in cold water. Pour 
on the water boiling hot. Boil twenty minutes and then 
add the milk and boil ten minutes longer. The sugar can 
be added to the chocolate on the fire or in the cuds. 



DRINKS. , >885 

Cocoa Nibs or Shells. 

Wet the shells in a little cold water. Use one cupful 
of shells for one quart of water, which must be boiling. 
Cook one hotir or more and theQ add a quart of milk. . 
Let it heat to nearly boiling, and then take from the fire. 

Hop Beer. 

One handful of hops, boil one hour, strain, and add one 
pint of molasses, and enough water to make two gallons. 
•When milk-warm,"add one cup or cake of yeast; let it 
stand over night; skim, and pour it off from 'the yeast 
carefully; add one tablespoonful of wintergreen, or any 
other flavoring, and bottle for use. 

Spruce and Boneset Beer. 

Boil a small handful each of hops and boneset for an 
hour or two, in a pailful of water; strain it, and dilute it 
with cold water until it is of the right strength. Add a 
small tablespoonful of essence of spruce, sweeten, fer- 
ment and bottle it, like the spring beer. 

The essences of hops, checkerberry, ginger and spruce, 
put into warm water in suitable proportions, then sweet- 
ened, fermented and bottled, make good beer. 

Jamaica Ginger Beer. 

I yi ounces of Jamaica ginger extract. 
I ounce cream tartar. 

1 po'und of sugar. 

4 quarts of boiling water. 

2 lemons sliced thin. 

Stir until the su^ar is melted. Let it cool to a blood 
he«at, then add two gills of good yeast, and let it work for 
twenty-four hours, then bottle. It improves by. keeping 
several weeks, unless the weathei: is hot. 



' , ■ ■ • ■ 

a86 . ' DRINKS. ' 

; Spring Beer. 

Take a handful of checkerberry (wintergrecn), a few 
sassafras roots cut up, half a handful of pine-buds, while 
they are small and gummy, and a small handful of hops. 
Put all these into a pail of water over night, arid in the 
morning boil them two pr three hours; fill up the kettle 
when it boils away. Strain it into a jar or firkin that will 
hold a half pailful more of water. Stir in a pint and a 
half of molasses, then add the half pailful of water. If 
not sweet enough add more molasses. It loses the sweet- 
ness a little in the process of fermentation, and should be 
made rather too sweet at first. Add two or three gills of 
good yeast, set it in a warm place, and let it remain un- 
disturbed till it is fermented. When the top is covered 
with a thick dark foam, take it off; pour off the beer into 
another vessel, so gently as not to disturb the sediment; 
then bottle it, and set it in a cool place. It will be ready 
for use in two days. The'sediment should be put into a 
bottle by itself, loosely corked, and kept to ferment the 
next brewing. 

* / Lemonade. 

3 lemons to a quart of water. 

6 tablespoonfuls of sugar. 

Pare the yellow peel from the lemons, and unless jrou 
intend to use the drink immediately, leave it out. It gives 
a bitter taste to the sugar if left long in it. Slice and 
squeeze the lemons upon the sugar, add a very little water, 
and let them stand fifteen minutes. Then fill up with 
water; ice well. 

V Orangeade 

Is made in the same manner, substituting oranges for 
lemons. 

Egg Nogg. 

6 eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately, and very 
stiflf. 



DRINKS. iSi 

1 quart rich milk. ' , ^ 
}^ cup of sugar. 

J4 pint of best brandy. - 

Flavor with nutmeg. 

Stir the yolks into the milk with the sugar, which should 
first be beaten with the yolks. Next comes the brandy. , 
Lastly whip in the whites of three eggs. •• -^ 

Blackberry Wine. 

Measure your berries and bruise them; to every gallon 
add one quart of boiling water. Let the mixture stand 
twenty-four hours, stirring occasionally; then strain into 
a cask. To each gallon add two pounds of su^ar, stir 
until well dissolved. Cork tightly and let it stand m your 
cellar one year before you open it for use. 

Black Currant Wine. 

Pick the currants, measure them, arid to every foUr 
quarts, put one quart water; then break the currants, add 
the water, stir them up, let them stand three days; then 
squeeze out the juice, and to each quait add one pound 
of sugar, put in a vessel and let it work. Skim it fre- 
quently, and when it is clear, cork it up, and in the course 
* of five months draw off and bottle. 

Raisin Wine. 

I J4 pounds of white sugar. 

2 }^ pounds raisins, seeded and chopped. 

2 lemons, all the juice and half the grated peeL 
2 j4 gallons boiling water. 

Put all into a stone jar, and stir every day for a week.' 
Strain, then, and bottle it. 

Cherry Wine, ' 

I gallon of bruised cherries* 

I gallon of rain water. 

5 pounds of sugar. ' 



388 DRINKS. 

Let the cherries and water stand twenty-four hours, 
strain and add the sugar. Let it stand three weeks, strain 
again and bottle. 

Currant Wine. 

Pick, stem, mash and strain the currants, which should 
be ver>' ripe. 

To 1 quart of juice add 

}{ pound white sugar. 

j4 pint of water. 

Stir all together long and well; put into a clean cask, 
leaving out the bung, and covering the hole with a bit 
of lace or mosquito net. Let it ferment about four weeks, 
rack off when it is quite still, aiid bottle. 

Rhine Wine. 

Take one gallon of the Rhine variety of black grapes; 
or if you cannot get them, use* the real Delaware grapes; 
and add one gallon of water, after bruising the grapes. 
Let it stand for eight days and then draw it off; now add 
to each gallon of wine three pounds of sugar, stirring it 
in. Let it stand ten or twelve hours, when it can be 
bottled or barreled for use. If allowed to stand for a suf- 
ficient length of time, it will in every respect prove equal 
to the imported wine. 

Elderberry Wine. 

8 quarts of berries. 

4 quarts of boiling water poured over the berries. 

Let it stand twelve hours, stirring now and then. Strain, 
well, pressing out all the juice. Add 

3 pounds of sugar to 4 quarts of juice. 

1 ounce of powdered cinnamon. 

j4 ounce of powdered cloves. 
. Boil Cwt minutes, and set away to ferment in a stone 
jar, with a cloth thrown lightly over it. When it has done 
'ermenting, rack it off carefully, not to disturb the lees. 
Bottle and cork it well. 



DRINKS.. ' 989 

\- Raspberry Shrub.. No. x. 

' Cover the raspberries with b^st vinegar, and lay over 
night. In the morning mash the berries, and squeeze 
through a coarse bag. To every pint of the juice, add 
one pound of sugar. Boil twenty minutes; when cool, 
bottle. This will make quite a thick syrup, which must 
be diluted with water when drank. 

Raspberry Shrub. No. 2 

. Fill a jar with red raspberries; pour in as xnuch vinegar 
as it will hold. Let it stand ten days, then strain it through 
a sieve. Don't press the berries, but let the juice run 
through. To every pint add one pound of loaf sugar. 
Boil it like other syrup; skim, and bottle when cold. 

Blackberry Shrub 

Is made in the same manner as raspberry, allowing one 
pound and a quarter of sugar to a pmt of tlie juice. 

Blackberry Syrup. 

1 pint of juice.^ 

X pound of white sugar. 

^ ounce of powdered cinnamon. 

}{ ounce of mace. ' 

2 teaspoonfuls cloves. 

I glass of best French brandy to every pint of the mix- 
ture. 

Procure perfectly ripe high blackberries, as they have 
more of the medicinal quality than the low berries. Put 
them in a porcelain-lined kettle over a moderate fire. 
Let them remain until they break in pieces; then mash 
and strain through a flannel bag. Boil all together (ex- 
cept the brandy) for fifteen minutes, stirring occasionally; 
then strain the syrup again, and add the brandy. Put 
into bottles, cork and seal them tight, and keep in a cool 
'37 






flpO DRINKS. 

place. This syrup, mixed with cold water, is an excellent . 
remedy for bowel complaint 

Strawberry Sherbet. 

I quart of strawberries. 

3 ijints of water. 

Juice of I lemon. 

I tablespoonful orange-flower water. 

^ pound white sugar. 

Select fresh and ripe strawberries. Crush to a smooth 
paste; add the rest of the ingredients (except the sugar), 
and let it stand three hours. Strain over the sugar, 
squeezing the berries through a cloth hard; stir until the 
sugar is dissolved, strain again and set on ice for two 
hours or more before you use it. 



HYGIENIC EFFECT OF DRINKS. 

[For Hygienic Eflfecti of Tea and Coffee, tee pps. 280 and 283.] 

Alcoholic. 

All alcoholic drinks are the result of the decomposi- 
tion of sugar. Nature will only assimilate such substances 
as come to her in an organized state. Alcohol has the 
same elements as sugar — carbon, hydrogen and oxygen 
— but the latter being organized for digestion, is agree- 
able to the taste, and is readily appropriated as heating 
food, while alcohol, being disorganized, creates rebellion 
and is expelled as an intruder. Alcoholic stimuls^nts 
may be beneficial, however, in rare cases, to give strength 
till natural food can be taken and digested, but if con- 
tinued longer, react, and produce only harm. 

Beer and Light Wines 

are less injurious, as many of the elements have not 
become sufficiently disorganized so but that much nutri- 
ment in the form of sugary and starchy matter is supplied ; 
to the system. But this might better be tak^n in any 
other form without the deleterious element always enter- > 
ing with them — that of alcohol. 

Cocoa 

is supplied with all the requisite elements of food, and 
to those who like its flavor it is a very agreeable and 
useful beverage, having all the advantages of tea and 
coffee without their deleterious qualities. Its nutritive 
elements are, however, too concentrated to agree. with 
very delicate stomachs. 

It contains a large share of oily matter with four per 
cent, of phosphates, and also some albumen. 



THE SICK ROOM. 

, Milk Porridge. 

I tablcspoonful Indian meal, and 

1 tablespoonful white flour wet to a paste with cold 
water. 

2 cups boih'ng water. 
2 cups milk. 

A f^ood pinch of salt. 

Boil the paste in the hot water twenty minutes; add the 
milk and cook ten minutes more, stirring often. 

Corn Meal Gruel. 

2 quarts of boiling water. 
I I cup of Indian meal, and 

I tablespoonful flour, .wet up with cold water. 

Salt to taste, and, if you like, sugar and nutmeg. 

Wet the flour and meal to a smooth paste, and stir into 
the water while it is boiling. Boil slowly half an hour, 
stirring up well from the bottom. If a cathartic is desired 
omit the wheat flour altogether. 

Oat meal gruel is made in the same way. 

Rice Flour Gruel. 

Make this exactly like Indian meal gruel, using less of 
the rice flour than of the Indian meal for the same quan« 
tity. . 

Flour Grueu 

Tie a teacup of flour in a strong cloth, and boil it six 
hours; when it is done it will be a hard cake of flour; dry 
it, and grate a large teaspoonful, mix it in paste with cold 



THE SICR ROOM. 293 

water, and stir it ir. boiled milk; let the gruel boil gently 
ten minutes, and add salt. This is excellent for patients 
suffering with bowel complaints. 

Barley Gruel. 

Boil pearl barlef until tender, reduce it to a pulp, pass 
it through a sieve, add water until of the right consistency, 
boil fifteen minutes and season to suit the taste. 

Rice Jelly. 

j4 cup whole rice, well washed and soaked two hours 
in^a little warm water; then added with the water to that 
in the kettle. 

3 pints cold water. 

I small pinch of salt put into the water. 

Sweeten to taste with loaf sugar. 

Simmer the rice half an hour; then boil until it is a 
smooth paste, and the water is reduced one half. Strain 
through double tarletan, sweeten and give to the child. 
This IS an admirable preparation for an infant sudering 
with weakness of the bowels. If there is no fever, you 
may put one-third part milk, boiled with the rice. 

Arrowroot. 
I cup boiling water. 

1 cup fresh milk. • 

2 teaspoonfuls best Bermuda arrowroot, wet with cold 
water. 

1 small pinch of salt. 

2 even teaspoonfuls white sugar dissolved in the milk. 
Stir the arrowroot paste into the salted boiling water; 

stir and boil five minutes, or until it is clear; add the 
sweetened milk, and boil ten minutes slowly, still stirring. 

Farina. 
I cup baiting water. 
I cup fresh milk. 

X large tablespoonful Hecker's Farina,ywet with cold 
water. 



294 THB SICK ROOM. 

2 teaspoonfuls white sugar. 
. A little salt. ' ^ 

Stir the farina into the boiling water (slightly salted) in 
the farina kettle (i. e. one boiler set within another, the 
latter filled with hot water). Boil fifteen minutes, stirring 
constantly until well thickened. Then^dd the milk, stir- 
ring it in gradually, and boil fifteen minutes longer. You 
may make enough in the morning to last all day; warm- 
ing it up with a little hot milk as you want it. Keep in a 
cold place. This is very nice for children. 

Beef Tea. 

Chop a pound of lean beef as fine as sausage meat; 
pour on it a pint of cold water, let it soak for half an 
hour, then put it over a slow fire; when it has boiled five 
minutes, pour it off and season with salt 

Mutton Broth. 

I pound lean mutton or lamb, cut small. 

I quart cold water. 

I tablcspoonful rice, or barley, soaked in a very little 
warm water. • 

•4 tablespoonfuls milk. 

Salt and pepper, with a little chopped parsley. 

Boil the meat, unsalted, in the water, keeping it closely 
covered until it falls to pieces. Strain it out, add the 
soaked barley or rice, simmer half an hour, stirring often; 
stir in the seasoning and the milk, and simmer five min- 
utes after it heats up well, taking care it does not bum. 
Serve hot 

Chicken Broth 

Is excellent made in the same manner as mutton, cracking 
the bones well before you put in the fowl 

Chicken Jelly. 

Half a raw dhicken pounded with a mallet, bones and 
meat together. 



THX SICK ROOIL i9S 

Plenty of cold water to cover it well — <tiout a quart 
Heat slowly in a covered vessel, and let it simmer until 
the meat is in white rags, and the liquid reduced one-half. 
Strain and press, first through a colander, then through a 
coarse cloth. Salt to taste, and pepj)er, if you think best; 
return to the fire, and simmer five minutes longer. Skim 
when cool. Give to the patient cold^ just from the ice. 
You can make into sandwiches by puttmg the jelly between 
thin slices of bread spread lightly with butter. 

Toast Water^ 

Slices of toast, nicely browned, without a symptom, of 
burning. 

Enough boiling water to cover them. 

Cover closely, and let them steep until cold. Strain the' 
water, sweeten to taste, and put a piece of ice in eadi 

S;lassf uL If the physician thinks it safe, add a little lemon 
nice. 

Jelly Water. 

I large teaspoonful currant or cranberry jelly. 
X goblet ice water. ' 

Desit up well, for a fever patient. Wild cherry or black* 

berry jelly is excellent, prepared in like manner, for those 

suffering with f^ummer complaint 

Apple Water. 

I large juicy pippin, the most finely flavored you can 
get 

3 cups cold water, x quart, if the apple is very large. 

Pare and quarter the apple, but do not core it Put it 
on the fire in a tin or porcelain saucepan with the water, 
and boil, closely covered, until the apple stews to pieces. 
Strain the liquor at oncc^ pressing the apple hard m the 
cloth. Strain this again through a finer bag, and set 
away to cool. Sweeten with white sugar, and ice for drink- 
ing. It is a refreshing and palatable drink. 



s96 thx sick room. 

Milk Punch. 

1 tumbler milk, well sweetened. 

2 tablespoonfuls best brandy» well stirred in. 

/j Patients in a very low condition have been kept alive 
for* days at a time by this drink, until nature could rally 
her. forces. Give cold with ice. 



29^ ADDITIONAL RECIPES. 



ADDITIONAL RECIPES. 899 



MISCELLANEOUS. 

Cure for Burns and Scalds. 

The first thing to be done is to remove the clothes, it 
the body is scalded. Then apply a thick layer of flour, 
and when it falls off lay on more. The object is to shield 
the wound from the air. Cotton wool is another good ap- 
plication. Lay a thick fold of it on, and then wet with 
good sweet oil; let the cotton remain until a new skin is 
formed. A soft bandage should be put outside the cot- 
ton. If the cotton is removed for the sake of putting on 
fresh, there will be a scar; if suffered to remain as direct- 
edy there will be no scar. 

To Clean Kid Gloves. 

I drachm carbonate of ammonia. 

I drachm chloroform. 
/ I drachm sulphuric ether. 

I pint deodorized benzine. 

\yash the glove in a little of the mixture, as you would 
apiece of cotton; then slip it on your hand while wet, 
and wipe with a clean, soft cloth, until thoroughly dry. 
Let them hang in the air awhile to remove the unpleasant 
odor of the benzine. They will be soft and pliable and 
look nearly as well as new. 

Prepared Glycerine for the Hands. 

Equal parts of glycerine, camphor and ammonia. 

To Prepare Earth for House Plants. 

Put together equal parts of the three following things, 
■oil from the sides of a barnyard, well-rotted manure, and 



MISCELLANEOUS. ^ tOI 

leaf mould from the woods, or earth from the inside of 
an old tree or stump. Add a small quantity of sand. 
For cactuses put as much sand as of the other inaterials 
and a little fine charcoal. 

To Wash Silk. ^ 

I tablcspoonful honey. 

1 tablcspoonful soft soap. 

2 cups of cold water. 

I wineglass of alcohol. 

Mix and shake up well; lay a breadth of the silk at a 
time on a table, and sponge both sides with this, rubbing ' 
it well in; shake it well up and down in a tub of coldwa-' 
ter; ./lap it as dry as you can, but do not wring it. Hang, 
it by the edges, not the middle, until fit to iron. While 
it is very damp, iron on the wrong side. Dark silks may 
be treated in this way. 

To Clean Black Silk. - 

Into one quart of water put a black kid glove and boil 
down to a pint; sponge the silk with this, and iron on the 
wrong side while damp. / 

Tp Clean Alpaca. 

Sponge the alpaca with spirits of ammonia and water, 
and iron on the wjong side while damp. ' 

To Renew Wrinkled Crape. 

Stretch over a basin of boiling water, holding it smooth, 
but not tight, over the top, and shifting as the steam fair- 
ly penetrates it. Fold, while damp, in the original creases, 
^ and lay under a heavy book or board to dry. It will look 
nearly as well as new. 

To Restore the Pile of Velvet. 

Wet on the wrong side; let some one hold a hot iron 
bottom upward, and pass the wet side of the velvet slowly 



30a ^ MISCELLANEOUS. 

cKver the flat surface, \\nien the steam rises thickly throngli 
to the right side, it will raise the pile with it 

To Curl Tumoled Feathers. 

Hold over the top of a hot stove, but not near enough 
to bum; withdraw, shake them out, and hold them over 
> it again until curled. 

To Clean Straw Matting. 

Wash with a cloth dipped in clean salt and water; then 
wipe dry ^t once. This prevents it from turning yellow. 

To Remove Paint from Windows. 

y Rub the paint spots with spirits of ammonia, or with 
a copper cent. 

To Remove Fruit Stains. 

Hold the stained article, before it has been wet, tightly 
over a bucket or tub, and pour boiling water upon the 
spots until they disappear. Do not allow the fabric to 
touch the water below. 

To Remove Iron Rust and Ink Stains. 

Oxalic acid is infallible in removing iron rust and ink 
stains. Use in the proportion of one ounce to a quart of 
soft water. The article must be spread with this mixture, 
over the steam of hot water, wetting occasionally. It will 
remove indelible ink and other stains. It is very poison- 
ous, and must be kept in a bottle corked. Wash the arti- 
cle afterward, or the liquor will injure it. This will ap- 
ply only to white goods, as the acid will cliangc the color 
of colored goods. 

To Remove Iron Mould. 

If the mould is fresh and not very dark, tie up a tea- 
spoonful of^ cream tartar in the moulded place, and put 
h into cold water without soap, and boil it half *o hour. 



MISCELLANEOUS. 303 ; 

^' To Destroy Rats and Mice* 

Take equal quantities of rye meal and unslacked limei 
mix them without adding any water. Put small quantities 
in places infested by rats; they will devour itj be thirsty, 
and the water they drink slackens the lime and destroys 
|hem. 

To Remove Grease. 

Fo^grease spots of any kind, benzine or gasoline are 
much used, applied with a small sponge.or linen rag. They , 
do not injure any colors, but they have to be used with a 
good deal of perseverance, or they will spread the spot 
without removing it. Tailors use equal parts of alcohol 
and ammonia to clean coats and pants, and nothing is 
better. For very nice articles, chloroform is better than 
anything else; it will remove all kinds of grease, paint or 
varnish. Magnesia or powdered French chalk rubbed on 
the wrong side, will often remove grease spots. ^ 

To Remove Tar. / 

Rub well with clean lard, afterwards wash with soap 
and warm water. Apply this to either hands or clothing. 

Camphor Ice. 

I ounce of lard, or sweet oil 
I ounce of spermaceti 
X ounce of camphor. 
I ounce of almond oil. 
J^ cake of white wax. 
Melt and turn into moulds. 

To Remove Discoloration from Bruises. ', 

Apply a cloth wrung out in very hot water, and renew 
frequently until the pain ceases. Or apply raw beefsteak. 

For Sudden Hoarseness. \ 

Roast a lemon in the oven, turning now and then, that 
all sides may be equalljr cooked. It should not crack or 



304 lasqBLLANBOUS. 

burst, but be soft all through. Just before going to bed 
take the lemon (which should be very hot), cut a piece 
from the top, and fill it with as much white sugar as it 
will hold. Eat all the sugar, filling the lemon with more, 
as you find it becoming acid. This simple remedy induc^es 
gentle perspiration, besides acting favorably upon the 
clogged menibranes of the throat. . 

Perspiration. % 

^ The unpleasant odor produced by perspiration maj^ be 
removed by putting a spoonful of spirits of ammonia in a 
basin of w^ter and bathing in this. This is especially 
good for bathing the feet. 

White Soap for Toilet Use. 

. 6 pounds of washing soda. 

6 pounds of lard or fat. 

3 pounds unslacked lime. 

I teacupful of salt. 

5- gallons of soft water. 
. Put the soda and lime in a tub and poUr over them the 
water boiling hot. Stir to dissolve. Let it stand until 
clear and all dissolved; then pour off the clear liquid. 
Add the fat and salt, and boil four hours, then pour into 
pans to cool Should it be inclined to curdle or separate, 
if the lime be too strong, pour in water and boil over 
again. 

To Clean Flat-Irons. 

Tic up a piece of yellow beeswax in a rag, and when 
the iron is almost, but not quite hot enough to use, rub it 
quickly with the wax, and then with a coarse cloth. 

Stove Polish. 

Stove lustre, when mixed with turpentine and applied 
in the usual manner, is blacker, more glossy, and more 
durable than when mixed *vith any odier liquid. The 



MISCELLANEOUS. 305 

turpentine prevents rust, and when put on an old, rusty 
stove will make it look as well as new. 

Cleaning Pots, Kettles and Tins. 

Boil a double handful of hay or grass in a new iron 
pot, before attempting to cook with it; scrub* with soap 
and sand, then set on full of clear water and let it boil 
half an hour. After this it can be used with safety. As 
soon as a pot or frying-pan is emptied of that which has 
been cooked in it, All with hot or cold water, and set back 
upon the fire to scald thoroughly. New tins should stand 
near the fire, with boiling water in them, in which has 
been dissolved a spoonful of soda, for an hour; then be 
scoured with soft soap, afterwards rinsed with hot water. 
Use sifted wood ashes or whiting for cleaning them. 
Copper utensils should be cleaned with brick-dust and 
flanneL , "^ 

Starch. 

To Make the Starch, Dissolve three tablespoonfuls of 
the best starch in cold* water; stir it very fast into a quart 
of boiling water; boil a few minutes. Five minutes before 
it is done stir in a piece of spermaceti the size of a wal- , 
nut, and stir till it is well mixed. 

Siarc/iiftg. As soon as you can bear your hands in the , 
starch dip the linen in, and be careful to rub the starchy 
into every part, or you will have blisters in the bosom. 
Fold the shirts so as to bring the two bosoms tosrciher, 'L 
gnd fold the collars in a dry towel. Let thcin He over 
night. 

A bosom board is an indispensable article, and is made m j 
by taking a board eight inches by eighteen, and covering t ^' 
one side with three thicknesses of flannel fastened to the 
edge with small tacks; then cover the flannel with three 
thicknesses of cotton cloth, sewed on tight, and perfectly , . 
smooth. 

Iron the shirt and bosom on the board; when the bosom 
is diy, brush it over with water till slightly damp, and thea ^; 
39 



X06 MISCELLANEOUS. 

with a polishing iron (which can be got at any hardware 
store) rub the surface of the linen hard until you have a 
fine polish. If the irons are rough, rub ^ them over with 
salt or smear the face slightly with beeswax, which must 
be cleaned off before using. The pan used for starch 
should not be used for any thing else. 

Cold Starch. 

Dissolve three tablespoon fuls of starch in a pint o 
cold water. Dip the linen in and thoroughly wet every . 
part; then rinsf the articles starched, in clear water to 
take pf the starch which will adhere to the linen. Do 
not be afraid to rinse the linen ^wellj Jot it will be stiff 
enough when ironed. They may be ironed in ten or fif- 
teen minutes, but shpuld not be allowed to remain in the 
doths longer, as they will not iron wfell. Lay a thin cloth 
upon them when you pass the iron over the first time. 
The irons should be quite hot. This mode of starching 
is preferred by many persons to the use of boiled starch. 
The starch which is not taken up by the linen, will settle 
in the water and can be used again. , 

To Clean Hair Brushes. 

Put a few drops spirits of ammonia in soft water and 
dip the bristles in, taking care not to wet the handles. 
Soda can be used instead of ammonia. Combs can be 
cleaned in this mixture. 

Patent Soap. 

5 pounds hard soap. 
I quart of ley. 

M ounce of pearlash. 
ace on the fire and stir well until the soap is dissolved; 
add 

}4 pint spirits of turpentine. 
I gill hartshorn. 

Stir well; it is then fit for use. The finest muslin may 
be put to soak in this suds, and if left for a time will be 



MISCELLANEOUS. 307 

come very white. A small portion of this soap* put in a . 
little hot water, and a flannel cloth, will save labor and a 
brush in cleaning paint. 

S()A«» Madi-: with Potash. 

Allow sixteen pounds each of grease and potash for a 
barrel of soap. The grease should be such as has been 
well taken care of, vii: tried before it became womiy 
and mouldy. Th** color of the potash should be about 
that of pumice stone. That which is red makes dark 
soap unfit for washing clothes. Cut the grease into pieces 
of two or three ounces, put it into a tight barrel with the 
potash, then pour in two pailfuls of rain water. The soap 
will make sooner if the water is hot, but will be as good 
made of cold. Add a pailful of sofi water every day un- 
til the barrel is half full, and stir well each day. When 
the barrel is half full add no more water for a week, but 
stir it daily. After that add a pailful a day until the batr- 
rel is fjLiU. It is better to keep soap three or four months 
before using it, it spends more economically, and is less 
sharp to the hands. When half of it has been used, put 
. two pails of soft water to the rest, and stir up well from 
the bottom; the lower half is always the strongest. ' It is- 
good economy to make soap, and it is so little work to 
make it with potash, and the result is so sure, that no one- > 
need be deterred from it by the fear of trouble or ill suc- 
cess. , 

Tooth Powder. No. i. 

2 ounces of Peruvian bark. ^ 

\ 2 ounces of myrrh. ^ 

I ounce of chalk. ^ 

, I ounce Armenian bole. / 

I ounce orris root. , / ; 

Tooth Powder. No. a. / i o- 

Equal parts of orris root, pulverized pumice stone and 
prepared chalk. Use once a week. :: v' 



,308. MISCELLANEOUS. 

Wash for the Teeth 

One ounce of myrrh, powdered and dissolved in one 
pint of spirits of . wine. A little of this dropped on the 
tooth brush is excellent for the teeth and gums. 

To Keep Suet. 

Pull off the skin or membrane from fresh suet, sprinkle 
salt upon it, tie it up in a cloth or bag, and hang it in a 
cool dry place. It will keep sweet the year round. 

To Clear Sugar. 

' Dissolve in hot water a little gum'arabic and isinglass; 
pour it into sugar when boiling and all sediment will rise 
t6 the top of the pan to be skimmed off. 

To Cleanse Lard or Butter. 

Rancid lard or butter may.be purified and made sweet 
for cooking purposes by trying it over with a little water 
added and a few sliced raw potatoes. 

Crackers. 

Crafckers, after being kept for some time, lose their ten- 
derness and delicacy. To renew these qualities, put the 
crackers into a broad shallow pan, and let them stand in 
a moderately hot oven for half an hour. Upon taking 
them out, they will be fresh and crisp. 

To Clean Furniture. 

An old cabinet maker says the best preparation for 
cleaning picture frames and restoring furniture, especially 
that somewhat marred or scratched, is a mixture of three 
' parts linseed oil and one part spirits of turpentine. It 
not only covers the disfigured surface, birt restores wood 
to its natural color, and leaves a lustre upon its surface. 
Put on with a woolen cloth, and when dry rub with 
woolen. 



miscellaneous. 3^9 ^ 

Papering Whitewashed Walls. ; . 

To make paper stick to whitewashed wajls, make a siz- . 
ing of common glue and water, of the consistency of lin- 
seed oil, and apply with whitewash or other brush to the 
walls, taking care to go over every part, and especially the. , 
top and bottom. Apply the paper as soon as you please, '. : 
in the ordinary way, and if the paste is properly made it 
will remain firm for years.- 

Rules for Keeping Goldfish. 

1. Have the diameter of the globe at least Civq times 
the fish's length. 

2. Change the water no oftener than three times a 
week, and have it moderately wai^m. 

3. In changing, lift the fish in a cup or linen net; nevMr , 
in the hand. 

4. Feed with fine bread crumbs, and the yolks of eggs } 
boiled hard and powdered. ^ 

5. Furnish the globe with water-plants, to give refroch- 
ing shadow, to purify the water and afford food. 

The following weeds are procurable in fresh water ponds: ' 
Water Starwort, Water Milfoil, Ditch Moss, Eel Gra^s, ' 

Pennywort, Hornweed, Duckweed. The puckweed is 

especially liked for its seeds. 

To Purify a Sink or Drain. I 

Dissolve a pound or two of chloride of lime in plenty 
of water, and pour down; or use carbolate of lime. 

The Best Deodorizer. 

Use bromo-chloralum in the proportion of one table* 
spoonful to eight of soft water; dip cloths in this solution : 
and hang in the rooms; it will purify sick-rooms of any 
foul smells. The surface of anything may be purified by - 
washing well and then rubbing over with a weakened so- • 
lution of bromo-chloralum. It is an excellent wash fqr 
sores and wounds that have an offensive odor. 



3IO . laSCELLANEOUS. 

To Soften Old Putty or Paint. 

Soft soap mixed with a solution of potash or caustic 
soda; or pearlash and slacked lime mixed with ^sufficient 
water to form a paste. Either of these may be applied 
with a brush or rag, and when left for some time will ren- 
der its removal easy. 

Cement for Fastening Wood and Stone. 

Melt together four parts of pitch and one part of wax; 
then add four parts of powdered brick-dust or chalk. It 
must be warmed before use, and thinly applied to the sur- 
faces to be joined. / 

Sealing Wax. 

6}4 pounds of rosin. 
i4 pound of beeswax. 
I j4 pounds of Venetian red. 
' Melt all together. 

To Remove Bottle Stoppers. 

A few drops of ammonia will loosen glass stoppers in 
jars or bottles. 

To Make Hens Lay. 

Give one teaspoonful powdered cayenne pepper every 
other day, to every dozen fowls. 

"" Antidotes for Poison. 

^ For any poison swallow instantly a glass of cold water 
with a heaping teaspoonful of common salt and one of 
ground mustard stirred . in. This is a speedy emetic. 

.When it has acted, swallow the whites of two raw eggs. 
If you have taken corrosive sublimate, take half a dozen 
raw eggs besides the emetic. If laudanum, a cup of vf/y 
strong coffee. If arsenic, flrst the emetic, then half a 
CUD of sweet oil or melted lafdr 



ARRANGING THE TABLE. 

Shape and Size of Table. 

Regarding the setting of the table, and the serving of 
the food we start with the supposition that the ordinary 
oval "extension" table is used. Some authors recom- 
mend a circular table about five feet in diameter, and 
think this plenty large for six or even eight persons. This 
would do well if all the dishes were to be carved and, 
served by the servant in what is known as the Russian 
style. But most Americans, with Addison, do not like all 
their food both bestowed and distributed like rations to 
paupers. And then, too, we like plenty of room— elbow-' 
room — ^at table. Be sure that you have the table large . 
enough so that not only the guests need not jostle or 
crowd each other, but that you may have sufficient room 
to arrange the dishes with taste, and also to place such 
ornaments upon the table as are needed to give it a 
bright and cheery look. Nothing looks more vulgar and 
unpleasant than a crowded or overloaded table devoid of 
ornaments, so do not not fail to provide plenty of room 
for dishes and ornaments. . ■ f 

Tadls Linen. 

Too much cannot be said about the pleasant effect 
produced by having the linen of the most spotless white- 
ness. 

There should be a thick baize placed under the table- • 
cloth. It prevents noise, and the heaviest table-linen will 
look comparatively thin and sleazy when placed upon a 
bare table. Few people afford such table-cloths as need. 



512 I ' SERVING FRUITS. 

no Starch, but when starch is used there should be so 
little that it cannot be detected by the eye. Napkins 

. should not be starched. It makes them stiff and disa- 

^ greeable. ^ 

Table Ornaments. 

Nothing is so pretty and so indicative of a fine taste as 
flowers. If you have no epergne (an ornamental stand 
for a large dish in the center of the table) w^e vl compaiur^ 
or raised dish, with a plate upon the top for cut flowers ; 
or place flower-pots with blossoming plants on the table. 
A net-work of wire painte4 green, or of wood or crochet 
work, may be used to conceal the roughness of the flower- 
pot,, or it may be set into a jardiniere vase. The flowers 
form a handsome center-piece around which to place two 
or four fancy dessert dishes. The dessert will consist of 
fruit, fresh or candied, fancy cakes, candies, nuts, rai- 
sins, etc. 



SERVING FRUITS. 

Mixed Fruits. 

Always choose a raised dish for fruits. Arrange part 
of the clusters of grapes to fall gracefully over the edge 
, of the dish. Mix any kind of pretty green leaves or 
vines which may also fall and wind around the stem of 
the dish. Arrange firmly, so that when the dish is moved 
there will be no danger of an avalanche. 

Water-Melon. 

^ A water-melon should be thorqughly chilled. It should 
be kept on the ice until about to be served. It may be 
simply cut in two with a slice cut from the convex ends 
to enable the ends to stand firmly on the platter. Then 
the pulp is scooped out in egg-shaped pieces, with a table- 
] snoon, and served. 



combination of dishes. . 313^ 

Peaches. 

Choose large, fresh, ripe and juicy, peaches, pare and 
cut Ihem into two or three pieces. They should be large, 
luscious looking peaches, not little chipped affairs. 
Sprinkle over granulated sugar, put them into the freezer 
and half freeze them ; this will require about an hour, as 
they are more difficult to freeze than cream. Do not take 
them from the freezer till the moment of serving, then 
sprinkle over a little more sugar. Serve in a glass dish. 
Canned peaches can be treated in the same way. 



COMBINATION OF DISHES.' 

Soups. 

Soup is generally served alone ; however, pickles and 
crackers are a. pleasant accompaniment for oyster soup, 
and many serve grated cheese with macaroni or vermicelli 
soups. Hot boiled rice is served with gumbo soup. This 
the hostess serves in the soup, a ladleful of soup and a 
spoonful of the rice. Cold slaw is sometimes served at 
the same time with the soup, and eaten with the soup or 
just after the soup-plates are removed. 

Fish. 

The only vegetable to be served with fish is potato. ', 
They may be served boiled whole, or some stuff the fish 
with seasoned mashed potatoes. 

Beef .AND Veal. 

Almost any vegetable may be served with beef. At 
dinner parties, mushroom sauce is generally served with 
beef. Horse-radish is a favorite accompanunent for beef. . 
Tomatoes, parsnips and oyster-plant are especially suit- 
able for veal. 



314 preparing the tablb. 

Corned Beef. 

^ This should be served with carrots, parsnips, turnips, 
cabbage or pickles around it. 

Turkeys. 
Cranberry sauce or some acid jelly should be served 
with turkey. Any vegetable may be served with it. 

Chickens. 

A boiled chicken is generally served on a bed of boiled 
rice. A row of baked potatoes is a pretty garnish for a 
roast chicken. Serve salads with chicken. 

Lamb and Mutton 

are nice with green peas, spinach, cauliflower or as- 
paragus. 

Pork. 

The best combinations for pork are fried apples, apple 
sauce, sweet potatoes, tomatoes or Irish potatoes. Pork 
sausages should always be served with fried apples or 
apple sauce. 

Roast Goose 

calls for apple sauce and turnips. 

^ ■ Game . 

should be served with some kind of acid jelly, as currant 
or plum. Spinach, tomatoes and salads are especially 
suitable for game. 



PREPARING THE TABLE. 



Put a knife and fork by the side of, and a napkin on, 
each plate. Place water glasses by the plates ready to 
be filled just before the dinner is announced. At a din- 
ner party, place a little bouquet by the plate of each lady 
in a glass or silver bouquet-holder. At each gentleman's 



SERVING THE DINNER. 3x5 

plate put a little biinch of three or four flovirers, called a 
boutonniere in the folds of the napkin. As soon as the 
gentlemen are seated at table they may attach them to 
the left lappel of the coat. 

Have the plates intended for dessert already prepared, 
with a finger-bowl on each plate. The finger-glasses* 
should be half filled with water with a slice of lemon in 
each, or a geranium leaf and one flower. - 

The warm dishes — not hot dishes — keep in a doset 
or on the top shelf of the range till the moment of serving. 

Place the soup tureen (with soup that has been brought, 
to the boiling point just before serving) before the seat 
of the hostess. • 

Dinner being now ready it should be announced by the 
butler or waiting-maid. Never ring a bell for a meal. 

If the company be so large that the hostess cannot 
place her guests without confusion, have a little card on 
each plate bearing the name of the person who is to 
occupy the place. 

Bills of fare when they are used are often written in 
French, but ^ood sense would lead one to prefer our own 
language, as it is almost impossible to find a compan^ all 
of the members of which could read the French. 



SERVING THE DINNER. 



The soup, salad and dessert should be placed invariably 
before the hostess, and all other dishes before the host. 

As each plate is ready, the host puts it upon the small ' 
salver held by the butler who then with his' own hand 
places this and the other plates on the table before eaCh 
guest. If a second dish is served in the course, the 
butler, putting a spoon in it, presents it on the left side 
of each person, allowing him to help himself. As soon 
as any one has finished with his plate, the butler should 
remove it without waiting for the others to finish. When 
the plates are all removed, the butler should bring on 
the next course. It is not necessary to use the crumb- 
scraper till just before the dessert is served. 



TABLE ETIQUETTE. 



" Chatted food is half digested." 

, —Old Proverb. 

The first essential is to catch the hare, and the second 
to cook it welly but the third is undoubtedly to eat it 
properly. Human beings were never intended to be the 
mere guzzlers of food that they too often are. A due at- 
tention to the grace and decency of feeding is often the 
surest means of provoking the taste of the nice. A well 
presented meal will entice the languid appetite, when the 
same food ill served will repel all desire. Cheerfulness 
of mind is as essential to a good digestion, as a good di- 
gestion is essential to cheerfulness of mind. Sterne said, 
* A man's body and his mind are like a jerkin and a jer- 
icin's lining; rumple the one, you rumple the other." 

The first duty of an entertainer is to see that his friends 
are well served. " The host who has compelled a guest 
to ask him for anything, is almost a dishonored man." 
He should anticii)ate the wants of all. An excessive en- 
tre.ity to eat is, however, not in good taste, and a refined 
guest never expects it. 

The guest should commence eating as soon as helped, 
and not wait, as some people with a strain of excessive 
politeness do, until all are served, and thus produce an 
awkward pivuse of staring expectancy. 

We need not go so far. back into the elements of good 
breeding as some writers on etiquette have, and remind 
our well-bred readers that it is not. considered polite to 
pick one's teeth with a fork at the table, and that the wa- 
ter in the finger-glasses is not to be drank, but to be used 



». TABLE ETIQUETTE. 317 . 

to wash the fingers. The various observances of table 
cereiTiony are not so frivolous as they may appear. For 
example, soup should not be taken the second time, as it 
is too much fluid for any stomach at the beginning of a 
dinner. The knife should be used for cutting food and 
tioi iox conveying it to the mouth. The waiter should 
not be allowed to serve from the right hand, for nothing 
can be more awkward than to attempt to take anything 
from the waiter on the wrong side, which is the right hand. 

At a large dinner party it is better to confine your pow- 
ers of entertainment to your immediate neighbors, and 
avoid brawling out to those opposite, or at a considerable 
distance from you. When the waiters are limited in num- 
ber, the gentlemen present should attend carefully to the 
wants of the ladies in their vicinity. Avoid all gross heap- 
ing up of your plates. As a general rule, refuse to be 
served with more than one kind of meat and vegetable 
at a time. There is one good rule, which, if followed, will 
make you an acceptable guest everywhere: Be not obtru- 
sive; do everything smoothly and quietly; talk in a low , 
tone of voice, and handle you knife, fork and i)late with- 
out clatter, and eat without any audible gulping and ' 
smacking of the lips. 

By common consent many of the usual table formali- 
ties are dispensed with at breakfast; at this informal re- 
past, each person is left free within certain limits, to con- 
sult exclusively his own convenience. It is not expected 
that there should be a gathering in the drawing-room or 
elsewhere, of the whole party, and a simultaneous move- 
ment to the breakfast table as at dinner. The presence 
of the host and hostess is not exacted, althougli where 
there is a family of children requiring the discipline of 
order and punctuality, no parent should fail to set the ex- < 
ample of regular observance of the hour of breakfast, as . 
of every other meal. \ 

The breakfast table should be, in accordance with the, ^ 
unceremoniousness of the repast, very simply dressed. 
The damask tablecloth and napkins, the white china, the 



3Ta TAULE ETIQUETTE. 

shining um^ the gh'ttering glassware sjrmmetrically ar-. 
ranged, will of themselves contribute to entice a morning 
appetite. The center of the table should always be 
adorned with flowers, if they can be obtained, or fruit 
when in season. The mistress of the house takes her 
place at the head or side of the table and before her she 
has the tray with the various vessels for the usual domes- 
tic beverages, tea and coffee. The hot water should be 
freely used, not so much to temper the tea and coffee, as 
to rinse out the cups. The slop-bowl is a necessary ves- 
sel, which, however, is too often wanting. Fastidious 
people do not care to see the "jetsams" and " flotsams " 
of their first cup floating in their second. 

It is not customary for fastidious people to accept of 
more than two cups of tea or coffee; but we do not know 
why good breeding, though moderation and temperance 
in all things is one of its cardinal principles, should con- 
fine itself to precisely that number. It has always been 
recognized as a symbol — the origin of which we do not 
pretend to know — of having had enough when the drink- 
er leaves his spoon in his cup, and of his wanting more 
when it is left in his saucer. 

It is always considered good breeding to get through 
the breakfast with as little formality of service as possible. 
The well-bred on such occasions whatever force they may 
have of servants, dispense as far as possible 'with their 
presence, and content themselves with a neatly dressed 
and unobtrusive maid, who knows when to make a timely 
exit. 

The simplest costume is always regarded as the most , 
becoming for breakfast. The matron should make her 
appearance in white cap and early morning indoor dress; 
and the master of the house may present himself in his 
ordinary dress, or even in shooting jacket. 

The wedding or formal official breakfast is a stereo- 
typed affair. It is little else than the fashionable ball 
supper, lighted up by day instead of gaslight,. 

The proper costume at wedding and formal breakfasts, 
as at all festivals before dinner, is a morning dress. The 



TABLE ETIQUETTE. 3^9 

gentlemen should wear frock coats and light vests and 
trousers, and the ladies with their usual morning visiting 
drapery. The gentleman ordinarily enters the drawing- V 
room with his hat in his hand, and the lady will always, 
unless very intimate, present herself with her bonnet on 
her head. The guests take their places with all the cere- 
mony of a formal banquet. The bride and bride-groom 
always have the precedence in the procession to the re- 
freshment room, and others take their position according 
to their age and rank. The gentleman in escorting his 
lady, should always give her his right arm. 

Of late years the luncheon, or ddjetincr h la fourchcite 
— the breakfast with a fork — has been dignified by its for- 
mal recognition by society as a cermonious repast. There 
is, however, much less formality in the serving of a lunch 
than a dinner. It is seldom in this country, though gen- 
erally in France, composed of several courses. The 
whole repast, whatever it may be, is set before the guests 
at the same time. When only one or two are to partake 
of the meal, a tray is served; but when more, the whole 
table is spread, but everything to be eaten ordinarily ap- 
pears upon it. The formal breakfast or lunch is more es- 
pecially the feast of literary men, fashionable wpmen, • ' 
and other idlers. At their "receptions" the dames gen- ' 
erally serve up chocolate and cake. 

The origin of dinner eating is coeval with the creation 
of man, but dinner giving is the late product of advanced 
civilization. A popular author says: " It may be received 
as an axiom that the social progress of a community is in 
direct proportion to the number of its dinner parties." 
It is unquestipnable that more enduring alliances have 
been struck by diplomatists across the mahognny than 
were ever agreed upon in ministerial cabinets. . , \ 

In regard to eating, parsimony is by no means the best 
economy of time. It is partiqularly necessary to lengthen 
the American dinner, and we know of no better means of^ ; 
doing this than by dividing it into courses, and interspers- 
ing between them cheerful interludes of social talk. ' The' ^ 
old proverb, that "chatted food is half digested" is worth . 



v,:: 



J 20 TABLE ETIQUBTTK. 

remembering; A full hour, at least, should be spared 
from the busiest day for the main repast. Let each one 
make the most of his dinner, whatever it may be; let it 
be prolonged and fi;ped from grossness by a graceful cer- 
emony; and above all, let it be partaken of in company, 
fqr nothing is so depressing to mind and body as solitary 
feeding. 

The number of persons at a dinner party, according to 
an old saying, should never be "more than the muses 
(nineV or less than the graces (three)." Brillat-Savarin 
says. Let not the number of the company exceed twelve;" 
for he, like all of his country-men, stops suddenly short 
of the thirteen — an ominotis number in the superstitious 
fancy of the French. It is too much the practice, partic- 
ularly in this country, to invite people of the same pro- 
fession or occupation to dine together. Brillat-Savarin, 
than whom thefe is no better authority, says, " that the 
guests invited to a dinner should be so selected that their 
occupations shall be varied^ and their tastes analogous, and 
with such points of contact, that there shall be no neces- 
• sity for the odious formality of a presentation." 

The invitations, if the party is a formal one, should be 
sent about a week or ten days before the dinner. The 
usual formula is simply this, either written in a note or 
printed on a card: 

Mr. and Mrs. request the pleasure of ,Mr. -^ — 's 

company, (date and No.), at o'clock. 

The favor of an answer is requested; (or) R. S. V. P. 

A formal acceptation should read thus: 

, Mr. accepts with pleasure Mrs. *s invitation 

to dinner, at o'clock, on . 

All written invitations should be answered immediately 
in writing, but especially invitations*to dinner, .and should 
be complied with at all hazards. If, by any mischance — 
' as. the death of a relative, or some other serious cause — the 
guest, after having once accepted an invitation, is unable 
to comply with it, he must be careful to send notice of the 
fact, with his regrets, at the earliest possible moment. 

At all dinner parties, the ladies and gentlemen are ex- 



TABLE ETTQUETTK. S^l 

pected to present themselves in full evening costume. - 
The host and hostess, particularly when the occasion is 
not a very formal one, will take care to keep their own . 
dresses in due subordination, lest they may possibly out^ 
. shine too evidently some of their guests, and unnecessa- 
rily put them to the blush. / 

Punctuality is essential to the perfection of dining, as 
it is to the proper' performance of every social duty. 
Fashion now sanctions what common sense has always in- 
culcated, and men of society are expected, alike with men : 
of business to be exact in their engagements. 

On arriving at the house, the gentleman if accompanied 
by a lady, gives her his arm on entering the drawing-room, '^ 
and the first person addressed should be the hostess. 
Very fashionable people have a footman at the door to 
announce the names of the guests as they present them- 
selves. If this is not done, the host or hostess may in- 
troduce their visitors to each other, taking care to make as 
little fuss as possible about it. When introductions are " 
dispensed with, as they may be with propriety, the guests 
should have i>o hesitation in conversing freely with each .' 
other as mutual acquaintances. 

When the dinner is announced, a procession is at once 
formed. The host gives his right arm to the female guest ' 
who, from age, rank or strangeness, has the precedence, 
and leads her to a place at the dinner table at his right, 
he being at the head or at one side; after whom comes the 
most distinguished male guest with the hostess. In Eng- 
• land, the hostess often remains with the most important 
male person until, the last, and performs the duty of pair . 
ing the guests. The hostess will seat herself at the other 
extremity, or at the opposite side of the table, \vith her 
escort on her right. The rest follow in couples, ranked 
generally according to age, and as they enter the dining- ; 
room are placed so that the host may be flanked on either . 
side by a lady, and the hostess by a gentleman. The 
rest of the guests are arranged in successive couples, so 
that each gentleman will be between two ladies, and each^ 
^ady between two gentlemen, provided the guests will al- 

•■41 ' ■. '. ■ y' 



397 TABLE ETIQUETTE, 

low of such ah arrangement. It is usual to separate the 
husband from the wife, and temporarily sever other do- 
mestic relations. 

If you value your health you will take a substantial 
men] at an early hour of the day, say at noon, or there- 
abi) Ks. The appetite is^ilmost universally strong at this 
time, and the corporeal energies being in their fullest 
strength, the function of digestion is more readily and ef- 
fectively performed. The mistake which is made by 
many who take a late dinner is, that they make it serve 
the purpose of both dinner and supper. It is dangerous 
to abandon the early dinner without an equivalent in the 
form of a solid luncheon. All epicures agree, moreover, 
that to appreciate a fme dinner, it must not be eaten with 
the voracity of the man famished by a whole day's hun- 
ger. In England, people seldom sit down to a dinner 
before seven, or half past seven or eight o'clock. In 
France six is the usual hour, and the fashionable people 
of the United States seem generally inclined to follow the 
French in this, as in other things. If our advice, and a 
substantial lunch at noon be taken, we would recommend 
the ceremonious repast of the day never to be eaten ear- 
lier than half past five. 

The ordinary mode of serving a dinner is the French 
one. The various dishes are placed upon the table just 
as they leave the hands of the cook, and being carved by 
host and hostess are distributed by the servants to the 
guests. Fpr formal occasions, however, the Russian mode, 
or the /ihier a la Russe^ has become fashionable. The 
dishes, when this style is adopted, are not served until cut 
up, when they are handed in succession to each guest by 
the waiters. The table is adorned in the center with 
flowers and fruit, various gelatines and ornamental con- 
fectionery. The plates of soup are generally put on the 
table before the guests are called in, and a bill of fare, as 
well as the name of each person, to indicate the seat he is 
; to occupy, printed or written upon a card, is placed on 
the napkin. Under each soup-plate is one of the ordi- 
nary kind of plates. % When the dessert is to be eaten, a 



TABLE ETTQUETTB. JtJ, 

Silver knife, fork and spoon are served upon a small plate : 
with the finger bowl and d'oylay. The guest on receiving 
these, spreads his d'oylay on his left, deposits the finger- 
l)owl upon it, and noiselessly sets his knife on the right, 
and his fork and spoon on the left. 

Soup should be placed on the table first. Some old 
fashioned people place fish and soup together, but" it is 
a custom more honored in the breach than in the observ- 
ance." All well ordered dinners begin with soup, which 
the hostess should serve and send round. If wine' is 
served, it should follow the soup. 

For ordinary dinner, the following minu is sufficient: 
One kind of soup, one kind of fish, two entries^ a roast, a 
boil, game, cheese, ices, dessert and coffee. 

For more ceremonious dinners, two soups (one white, 
the other clear), two kinds of fish, and four entries arc 
necessary. Bread should not be cut less than an inch 
thick, rolls are preferred. 

Entries are those dishes which are served in the first 
course after the fish. ^ ' ' . 

Entretntnts are those served in the second course after \ 
the roast. .' 

It is a foreign custom, and an excellent one, to serve 
the coffee in the dining-room before the ladies retire, 
as it puts an end to the prolonged wioe drinking, now 
so universally condemned by all well-bred pebple. 

The hostess gives the signal by rising from the table, 
and the gentlemen and ladies return to the drawing- 
room in the order in which they left. 

It is seldom that a person takes a seat, but all remain * 
standing or walk about the drawing-room conversing or 
admiring the pictures, articles of vertu^ and whatever else 
may invite notice. The visit to the drawing-room be- 
ing merely designed to graduate the farewell, and thus 
render the departure less abrupt, is naturally informal. 
The stay after dinner) unless additional company has been 
invited, and there is a supplementary evening party, ' is 
seldom prolonged beyond half an hour, i;«hen leave is 
quietly taken. 



BILLS OF FARE. 



f , Breakfast. No. i. 

Mutton Chops, . Minced Codfish with Eggs» 

. Stewed Potatoes, 

Rice Cakes, Gems, 

Cold Bread,* 
' Tea, Coffee. 

\ 

Breakfast. No. 2. 

Codfish Balls, Cold Venison, 
Muffins, 

Com Bread, Rolls, 

Tea, Coffee.' 

. Breakfast. No. 3. 

Broiled Beefsteak, Cold Tongue, 

Baked Potatoes, 

Cracker Toast, Com Meal Muffins, 

Tea, Coffee. 

Breakfast. No. 4. 

Broiled Fresh Fish, Beefsteak, 

• Fried Potatoes, 

Cream Toast, Grdham Biscuit, 

Rolls, 
^ Tc«t Coffee. 

I 



bills of fare. 3^5 

Dinner. No. i. 

Ox-Tail Soup, 

Salmon; 

Roast Beef, Roast Pork, 

Mashed Potatoes, Boiled Rice, Apple Sauce, 

Stewed Tomatoes, Onions, Squash, 

Horse Radish, Chow Chow, 

Apple Pie, Cream Pie» 

Apples, Raisins, Nuts, 

Tea, Coffee. 

Dinner. No. a. 

Oyster Soup. 

Baked Halibut, 

Turkey, ^ Roast Mutton, 

Betted Potatoes, Cabbage, Parsnips, Hominy, 

Cranberry Sauce, Currant Jelly, 

Tapioca Pudding, Mince Pie, 

Assorted Cake, 

Lemon Ice Cream, Nuts, Oranges, Apples, Raisins, 

Tea, Coffee. 

- Dinner. No. 3. 

Asparagus Soup, 

Fresh Mackerel, 

Roast Lamb, Boiled Tongue, 

Mashed Potatoes, Green Peas, Squash, 

Cucumbers, Onions, Horse Radish, Pickled Beet% 

Cocoanut Pie, Jelly Cake, 

Ice Cream, , ^ Wine Jelly, 

Tea, Coffee. 



3»6 BILLS OF FARl. 

Dinner. No. 4. 

Pesv Soup, 

Rock Fish, 

Spare-rib of Pork, Roast Veal Stuffed, 

Boiled Potatoes, Escallopcd Tomatoes, Onions, 

Pickled Beets, Apple Sauce, Chow Chow, Celery, 

Horseradish, Anchovy Sauce^ 'I'omato Catsup, 

Boston Lemon Pudding, Squash Pie, 

Blanc Mange, Charlotte Russe, 

Oranges, Apples, Nuts, Raisins, 

Tea, Coffee. 

Supper. No. i. 

Cold Pickled Salmon, Cold Boiled Tongue, 

Bread and Hutter, 

Crackers and Cheese, SdSerted Cake, 

Tea, Coffee. 

SuppEjt. No. 2. 

Cold Roast Meat, Raw Oysters, 

Bread and Butter, Canned Fruit, 

Selected Cake, Tea, Coffee. 

Supper. No. 3. 

Cold Ham, Lobster, 

Biscuit and Butter, 

' Preserved Pine Apple, Sponge Cake, Cup Cake, 

Tea, Coffee. 

Supper. No. 4. 

Cold Fowl, Sardines, 

French Rolls and Butter, Crackers and Cheese, 

Preserved Fruit, Selected Cake, 

Tea, Coffee. 



INDEX 



SOUP. 

MEAT AND VEGETABLE. 

PAGE. 

Asparagus 17 

Beef 13 

Bean, Dry 17 

Calf 's Head, Plain 15 

Corn, Green 16 

Croutons 18 

Flavors for 11 

French Vegetable ...... 14 

Mutton •... 14 

Mock Turtle 15 

Noodles for 18 

Ox-Tail 15 

Pea 17 

Powder for . : 12 

Turkey 13 

Tomato 17 

Veal with Macaroni . . . 13 

Vegetable 16 

FISH SOUP. 

Catfish 20 

Clam 19 

Lobster 20 

Oyster (iVi?. I ^ ^9 

Oyster {No, 2) ig 

FISH. 

Catfish, fried 26 



Codfish, (fresh) boiled, at 
Codfish (sait) boiled.. . aa 
Codfish Sounds and 

Tongues * .. . aa 

Codfish Balls aj 

Codfish (sali) and Eggs, aa 
Codfish and Potato Stew 23 

Eels, stewed 39 

Eels, fried a9 

Fish, broiled a3 

Fish Chowder (No. i) . a4 
Fish Chowder \No. 2) . 24 

Halibut, boiled aS 

Halibut, baked a8 

Halibut Steak 28 

Mackerel {salt) 23 

Mackerel {fresh) broiled 24 

Rock Fish aa 

Salmon, broiled 2$ 

Salmon, boiled 25 

Salmon, baked 25 

Shad, (fresh) broiled .• 27 
Shad, (salt) broiled.... 28 
Shad, (/r^j//) boiled... 26 

Shad, {salt) boiled 27 

Shad, fried 27 

Shad, baked 27 

Smelts 29 

Trout, Salmon, boiled.. 26 
Trout, Salmon, baked.. 2^ 



i 
^ 



328 



INDEX 



PAGB. 

Trout, Brook, fried .... 26 

SHELL FISH. 

Clams, To Open 30 

Clams, boiled 30 

Clam Chowder I No, iV 30 

Clam Chowder \No, 2). 36 

Lobster, To Select .... 31 

' Lobster, To Serve 31 

Oysters, fried , 32 

Oyster Fritters 31 

Oyster Omelet ........ 34 

Oyster Pie . . 33 

Oysters, PicKlcd 33 

Oyster Patties 32 

Oysters, Raw 33 

Oysters, Scalloped .... 32 

MEAT. 

BEEF AND VEAL. 

. Beef, Directions • for 

Boiling...; 37 

Beef, Directions for 

Roasting 38 

Beef, (corned) boiled. . . 39 

Beef, To Corn 43 

Beef Cro(|uettes 42 

Beef, (dried) 40 

Beef, French Method . . 40 

Beef, hashed 41 

Beef's Liver 41 

Beef Omelet 42 

^ Beef Pickle 42 

Beef Tongue , 39 

Beef Steak (No, i|.... 38 

Beef Steak (No, 2).... 39 

Beef Steak, Tough .... 39 



PAGB. 

Crust for Meat Pie 42 

Meat Pie 41 

Sweetbread, fried 46 

Sweetbread, broiled .... 46 

Veal, broiled 44 

Veal Chops 43 

Veal Cutlets 43 

Veal Fillet 44 

Veal Loaf 45 

Veal Loin 45 

Veal Omelet 46 

Veal Pot Pie 45 

Veal Pie 44 

Veal Steak 43 

MUTTON. 

Mutton, boiled 48 

Mutton or Lamb Chops 

Broiled 47 

Mutton Cutlets 48 

Mutton Leg, boned.... 48 

Mutton, roast 47 

Mutton, stew 46 

PORK. 

Ham, broiled .... ^ ... . 53 

Ham and Eggs 53. 

Ham or Shoulder, boiled 52 

H a m s, ( molasses cured) . . 52 

Head Cheese or Souse . 54 

Lard 49 

Pig, roast 49 

Pork Steak 51 

Pig's Feet 54 

Pork and Beans, baked. 55 

Shoulder of Pork 50 

Sausages, To Make.... 51 

Sausages, To Fry 51 



INbEX. 



329 



PACB. 

Sausage, Bologna 52 

Salt Pork, fried 53 

Spare-rib or Cliine .... 50 
Tripe 54 

POULTRY. 

Chicken, broiled 58 

•• fried 58 

*** fricasseed : . . . 58 

" Pit 59 

" Pidkled 58 

" Prairie, Quails. 

etc 59 

Prairie broiled. 59 
" Prairie, Fricas- 
seed ...... 60 

Duck, roasted 60 

Goose, roasted 60 

Pigeon Pie 61 

Pigeons, roasted 60 

Turkey or Chicken boiled 57 
Turkey or Chicken 

dressing 57 

Turkey or Chicken 

pressed 57 

Turkey or Chicken 
roasted 56 

GAME. 

Fawn, roasted 6^ 

Game, To Keep 62 

Partridges, boiled 63 

" roasted 63 

Rabbits and Squirrels. . 62 
Venison 62 

GRAVIES AND SAUCES 

FOR FISH AND MEAT. 

Butter, drawn or melted 64 



^ PAGE. 

Gravies V. 64 ' 

Sauces, Anchovy 66 

" Caper 66 

" Celery........ 65 

:; Egg 6s 

. " Mint 66 

" Oyster.. 65 

" Mayonaise .... 66 

EGGS. 

Boiled 67 

Dropped 70 

Elements of .67 

Fried k 69 

Omelet Fried 68 , 

" Plain. 68 

Packing 70 

Poached 68 

Poached d la Crdme ... 69 

Scrambled 67 

MILK, BUTTER AND 
CHEESE. '^ 

Butter 72 

" Making 74^ 

Cheese 75' 

" Making 76 

" Cottage 77 

Milk.. 71 

MEAT MAXIMS .. 78 

HYGIENIC EFFECT OF 
ANIMAL FOOD. 

Cheese 4 .. 83 

Eggs 83 

Fat Meats 81 

Fish 81 

Lean Meats (fresh) .... 80 



530 



IKDSX. 



U 



PAGE. 

Salt Meats 8i 

Shell Fish 82 

. VEGETABLES. 

Asparagus {N0. i). . . . . 93 
i^o..) 93 

(^o.z) .... 93 

Beans, shelled 97 

" string or snap , . 96 

Beets, boiled 96 

Broccoli and Eggs 91 

Cabbage, boiled 90 

boiled in milk 90 

ladies' 90 

Cauliflower 91 

Carrots, boiled ........ 95 

Celery 93 

Corn, green, boiled .... 94 
" " stewed.. . 94 

" Patties 95 

" Hulled 94 

Cucumbers, fried 92 

" raw 92 

Elements of 83 

Egg Plant fried 98 

Greens 99 

Maccaroni with Cheese. 100 

baked 99 

Mushrooms, stewed ... 99 
" broiled.. . 99 

" To Select . 98 

Onions, boiled 04 

" fried 94 

Oyster Plant(5^^ Salsify.) 

Peas, green ,. . . . 93 

Parsnips, boiled 96 

" fried 96 



Parsnips, stewed 96 

Potato balls 88 

Potatoes, boiled 88 

Potato Cakes 89 

Potatoes, fried 89 

" old. To Cook.. 89 
" heated in milk . 89 

" mashed 88 

" sweet.; .•90 

Radishes t 98 

Squash, summer 97 

" winter 97 

" baked 97 

Salsify or Oyster Plant. 95 

Succotash 95 

Spinage 95 

Sauer Kraut 90 

Turnips, mashed 92 

Tomatoes, stewed 91 

" scalloped .... 91 
" raw 92 

VEGETABLE ACIDS. 

Acetic acid 103 

Citric acid 102 

Malic acid 102 

Oxalic acid 103 

Pectic acid. 103 

Tartaric acid 102 

FLAVORED VINEGARS. 

Celery 104 

Horseradish 104 

Oyster 104 

Peach .4 104 

PICKLES. 
Bean 108 



INDEX* 



33^ 



PAGB. 

Butternut and Walnut. • 107 
Cucumber or Gherkin .105 

Cucumber, salt 106 

Cabbage, red 107 

Cauliflower 106 

Chow-Chow 109 

" Cucumber.. 109 
"' English .. ..no 

Mangoes 108 

Nasturtiums ,1 oS 

Peppers 106 

Tomato, green 108 

SWEET PICKLES. 

Cucumbers iii 

Cantelope iii 

Damsons. iii 

Peaches 112 

Plums, spiced. ...•.•..112 

Tomatoes iii 

Watermelon B^nd 113 

CATSUPS. 

Currant 115 

Ever Ready.. •• * 117 

Gooseberry .116 

Horseradish.... 4*....ii6 

Tomato ,»••,•• .115 

Walnut.. 115 

Worcestershire, Imita- 
tion ..216 

SALADS. 

Celery.... .... 119 

Chicken, Suggestions.. .122 

Chicken '. • ..122 

Chicken Salad Dressing.122 
Cold Slaw 119 



PACK. 

Dressing for 121 

Horseradish ...«.«••• 119 

Lettuce ••119 

Lobster iJV^o. i) .... . . 126 

Lobster {JV0, 2). ..... . 121 

Made Mustard 118 

Sydney Smith's 118 

Tomato 120 

YEAST. 

Hop Yeast (No. i) .... 1 26 
Hop Yeast (iVi?. 2J .... 127 
Milk or Salt Rising. . . . 126 
Potato Yeast {JVo. j) ..125 
Potato Yeast (jSTo. 2) ..126 

Yeast Cakes 127 

Yeast without Hops. . . • 128 

BREAD. 

Bread, buttermilk 131 

" hop yeast -131 

" for large baking. 132 

" milk 7.132 

" milk yeast or salt 

rising 126 

" Patterson 132 

" sponge..- 133 

" Graham (JVo. i).i33 ' 
" Graham (iVi?. 2).i34 

Biscuit, baking powder. 135 
" butter-milk or 

sour milk....i35 

" cream.... .....134 

" cream tartar. . . .134 

" raised (No, i)..235 
" raised (No. 2)..i^$ 
" soda 135 



S3« 



INDEX* 



?AGB. 

Buns.......... 136 

" Easter..... 136 

" plain 137 

Crackers 137 

Crumpets 138 

Gems, Graham 143 

Muffins {No. i) 141 

{No. i) 






Puffs. 



..141 

buttermilk ....141 

sour milk 141 

corn meal ....143 

Graham 142 

Grojiam raised. 142 
rice 142 

137 

Rolls (iV<;. i) .138 

:: (^0.2) 139 

French (No. 1) ..139 
" French {No. 2) ..139 

'' " Graham 143 

Rusk 140 

Rusk sweet 140 

Strawberry shortcake... 134 
Sally Lunn {No. i)....i4o 

Toast, French 143 

" milk 144 

Wafers. . . ^ 138 

CORN BREAD. 

Brown bread . . .', 145 

Boston brown bread.. .145 
Brown bread, raised ... 146 
Graham and Indian .... 145 
Johnny cake {No. 1). . . 144 
\No.2)..i44 

^ " (^^.3) ..144 

Steamed brown bread. . 145 



PAGE. 

GRIDDLE CAKES AND 

WAFFLES. 
Cakes,buckwheat(A^^.i) 1154 

:: ^ " W44\ 

bread 150 

" green corn .151 

" rice 152 

Griddle cakes {No. i). . 152 
(A^^. 2)..iS3 

Waffles, rice 153 

" risen 153 

" quick 153 

FRITTERS. 

Fritters 156 

I ••'•, '55 

eggplant.. ....155 

snow 15s 

VEGETABLE MAX- 

HYGIENIC EFFECTS 
OF VEGETABLES. 

Beans and Peas 159 

Buckwheat 159 

Carrots 158 

Fruits .......159 

Indian Corn 158 

Oats 158 

Parsnips 158 

Rye ....159 

Squashes 158 

Turnips 158 

SUGAR .....160 

CAKE. 
Almond 172 



INDEX. 



333 



PAGE. 

Citron • 158 

Chocolate 168 

Cream 170 

Codee 172 

Cocoanut • ••..176 

Currant 177 

Cornstarch .••179 

Delicate.,.. 168 

Feather 167 

Fruit 173 

Fruit, everyday 173 

Fruit, farmer's.. 174 

Fruit and nut 174 

Gold .167 

Hickory nut (No. ih. .171 
Hickory nut \No. 2) • . • 1 7 1 

Ice Cream. . .* 170 

Jelly .177 

Lemon 165 

Marble fiV^i?. I ).... ...177 

Marble {No. 2) 178 

Myrtle's 176 

Orange (No, i) 164 

Orange \No, 2) 165 

One, two, three, four. . . 171 

Pound 172 

Plain..*. X75 

Pork 179 

Ribbon 166 

Raspberry roll 180 

Sea foam 165 

Silver .167 

Spice 176 

Sponge {No. i) 175 

Sponge {No. 2) 175 

Snow drift.... 179 

Tii-color. • • • • . • 167 



PACft. 

Tea .180 

Watermelon 169 ' 

Wedding.... 173 

White 177 

' ICING. 

Icing {No. i)... 180/ 

Icing {No. 2 181 

COOKIES AND SMALL CAKES. 

Cookies 182 

'' ammonia 182 

" rich 181 

Cocoanut drops 182 

Kisses 183 

^[acaroons 183 

Ring jumbles 183 

GINGERBREAD AND SNAPS. 

Breakfast cookies 186 

Ginger snaps {No,> i\ . . 185 

Ginger snaps {No. 2) . . 185 

Gingerbread, hard. . . . . 184 

" sugar... .184 

" soft 184 

" sponge... 1 85 

CRULLERS AND DOUGHNUTS 

Crullers 187 

Doughnuts (-A^ic?. i)....i86 

{No.2)....iZ6 

" raised. .. ..187^ 

SWEETMEAT' MAX- 

IMS. 188 

Measures. • 189 

PIES. 

Apple custard 199 

Apple (No. i\ 198 

Apple {No. 2). • •, • • • •X98 



134 



IKDSX. 



?ACE. 

Blackberry. • • • • • i99 

Cherry « •••••/• • • 199 

Cocoanut 200 

Chocolate custard 300 

Custard ••••••, 200 

Cornstarch ^••«2oi 

Cranberry • . • 201 

Cream ^ • 201 

Currant «.. ••199 

Gooseberry green .... .199 

"Lemon (J^o. 1) 202 

" iJ^Tif.'a) 202 

" i-^^'i) 202 

" W(^.4) 203 

.Mince. ...*.... 197 

Mock Mince 198 

Orange ' 203 

Pie Crust (J^o. i) 196 

Pie Crust (TV^i^. 2) 196 

Puff Paste, French .... 197 

Peach 205 

Plum. 199 

Potato, sweet .200 

Pumpkin 204 

Raspberry 199 

Rhubarb ...199 

Strawberry 204 

Squash {See Puntjfkin). .20^ 

TARTLETS. 

Lemon Tart Filling. . . . 204 

Orange 204 

Raspberry Cream 205 

PUDDINGS. 

Apple Dumpling,baked . 222 
Apple DumpIing;boiled.222 
Apple and Tapioca. . . .213 



?A6I. 

Arrowroot 220 

Black • 210 

Bird's Nest .,..212 

Bread 213 

Berry •••• ..215 

Boston Lemon 217 

Boston Orange 217 

Batter ^ 223 

Cracker 211 

Cocoanut .....215 

Cornstarch, boiled 220 

Cornstarch, baked 220 

Cottage • 221 

Custard, baked 224 

Cracked Wheat 225 

Delicate.. 222 

English Plum (No. i^..^o8 
English Plum {No. 2).. 209 

Fanna ...214 

Fruit Valise. ^ ... 215 

Food • .... 219 

German Puffs.... .....221 

Graham •• ...226 

Hen's Nest 212 

Hominy 226' 

Hasty .....226 

Indian'. ....223 

Indian and Suet 223 

Lemon 216 

Minute..,. ,.225 

Orange.... ,216 

Oatmeal 225 

Porcupine 209 

Plum (No, ij.... ...«.2ib 

Plum {No, 2) ,.^.211 

Plum, Thanksgiving. . ,224 
Pineapple. .♦aio 



INDEX* 



335 



?AGB. 

Queen of Puddings. ..aio 

Rice 217 

Rice with Eggs 218 

Rice and Tapioca 218 

Rice, boiled 218 

Sago 213 

Snow 221 

Steam 222 

Tapioca 214 

Velvet 2I9 

PUDDING SAUCES. 

Cream, sweetened 228 

Foaming 230 

Hard 227 

Jelly ..228 

Lemon 227 

Plain ..227 

Sauce for English Plum.229 

Sauce for Velvet 228 

Sauce for all kinds 229 

Wine ..229 

FANCY DISHES FOR 
DESSERT. 

Blanc Mange,cornstarch228 
Blanc Mange, moss, • . . 239 
Blanc Mange, velvet... 238 

Custard, boiled 235* 

Charlotte Russe. 235 

Cream, Lemon . .* 239 

Cream, Spanish • . 240 

Cream, Tapioca 239 

Floating Island 235 

General Directions .... 235 

Jelly, Wine 240 

Jelly, Calf's Foot 241 

Jelly^ Lemon • « • • 242 



dAGK. 

Jelly, Orange 241 

Lemon Snow 237 

Meringues «• •^236 

Orange Souffle 237 

Raspberry Trifle ..... .236 

Stained Froth 238 

Whipped Syllabubs .... 236 

ICE CREAM. 

Chocolate • • • .247 

Ice Cream (No, i) , . . . 236 
Ice Cream {No, 2) .... 247 
Lemon {S€e Orange) . . . 

Orange 248 

Pineapple 248 

Raspberry 248 

Strawberry 248 

Self-Freezing,Directions 
for 246 

ICES. 
Currant and Raspberry. 250 

Lemon . • • • 249 

Orange «..249 

Strawberry 249 

SAUCES, PRESERVES 

AND FRUIT JELLIES. 

Apples ••••253 

*' Sweet(.Sr^ Quinces) , 

Apple Butter .258 

Apples steamed. ..... .253 

Citron 252; 

Cherries .y ...... 253 

Cherries, dried .*.*.... 254 

Cherry Sauce ...•••••• 255 

Cider Apple Sauce; » • .254 
Crab Apples , «. 254 



33^ 



INDEX. 



Cranberry Sauce ...... ^54 

Currant 255 

Damsons. . , 256 

Egg Plums 256 

Figs 257 

Gages, gr6en 256 

Jam, Blackberry 259 

Jam, Grape 260 

Jam, Gooseberry 260 

Jam, Raspberry 259 

Jam, Strawberry ...... 259 

Marmalade,Crab apple. 262 

" Grape 264 

" Teach.... 263 

" Pear 263 

" Sweet apple.262 

** Quince . ..263 

Wild Plum. 263 

Orange Peel.... 257 

Peachea 252 

Peach Butter 257 



Pears. 



252 



Pears, baked 253 

Pineapple 253 

Quince and sweet apple . 258 

Strawberries 255 

Tomato, Ripe ......... 255 

Watermelon Rind 258 

FRUIT JELLIES." 

Apple 262 

Blackberry..,. 260 

Currant 260 

Curarnt 261 

Crab Apple 261 

Green Grape. . . ; 262 

Quince 261 

Raspberry and Currant. 262 



rxoB 

Strawberry 260 

Wild Plum 262 

CANNED FRUIT. 

Berries ....265 

Pears 266 

Peaches 265 

Plums 266 

Pineapple , 265 

Tomato 266 

CONFECTIONERY. 

Boiling Sugar 271 

Clarification of Sugar.. 271 
Coloring and Flavoring. 272 

Candy, Cream. 274 

Candy, Lemon 274 

Candy, Molasses, white.273 

Candy, Nut 272 

Carahfiels 274 

Caramels, Coffee 275 

Caramels, Chocolate. ..275 
Caramels, Cream Choc- 
olate 276 

Caramels, Cream Coffee.275 

Caramels, Lemon 275 

Tablets, Cinnamon .... 276 

Tablets, Ginger 276 

Tablets, Ginger 276 

Tablets, Vanilla 276 

Taffy, Almond 273 

Taffy, Evcrton 273 

DRINKS. 

Beer, Hop 285 

Beer, Spring 286 

Beer, Spruce and Bone- 
set 28s 



INDEX. 



337 



PAGB. 

Beer, Jamaica Ginger. .285 
Chocolate, to make. . . . 284 

CofTee -281 

CofTee, to make 284 

Cocoa and Chocolate. .283 
Cocoa Nibs or Shells. .285 

Egg Nogg 286 

Lemonade 286 

Orangeade 286 

Shrub, Blackberrv 289 

Shrub,Raspberry(A^(t?.i) 289 
Shrub,Raspberry(iVi?.2) 289 
Sherbet, Strawberry.. .290 

Syrup, Blackberry 289 

Tea 278 

Tea, to make 284 

Wine, Blackberry 287 

Wine, Cherry 287 

Wine, Elderberry 288 

Wine, Raisin 287 

Wine, Rhine 288 

HYGIENE OF DRINKS. 

Alcoholic 291 

Beer 291 

Cocoa 221 

Light Wines 291 

SICK ROOM. 

Arrowroot 293 

Beef Tea 294 

. Broth, Chicken 294 

Broth, Mutton 294 

Farina 293 

Gruel, Barley 293 

Gruel, Flour 292 

Gruel, Corn Meal 292 



PAQB. 

Gruel, Oat Meal {Sec 

Corn Meat) 292 

Gruel, Rice Flour . . • . .292 

Jelly, Chicken 294 

Jelly, Rice. 293 

Milk Punch 296 

Milk Porridge 29-2 

Water, Apple r. ... 295 

Water, Jelly 295 

Water, Toast 295 

MISCELLANEOUS. 

Antidotes for poisons. ..310 
Burns and Scalds, cure 

for 300 

Crackers 308 

Cement for Wood or 

Stone • • 3 '^ 

Cleanse Lard or Butter.308 

Clean Furniture 308 

" Kid Gloves 300 

" Alpaca 301 

" Black Silk 301 

" Straw Matting. . .302 

" Flat Irons 304 

" Pots, Kettles and 

Tins --SOS 

. ** Hair Brushes. , . .306 
" or wash Silk ....301 
Crape, wrinkled, to Re- 
new..., 30 J 

Camphor Ice ^of 

Deodorizer, best ..... j ly 
Earth for House Plant? v^ 
Feathers, to curl .... i^^ 
Fruit Stains,to remove. .30s 
Grease, to remove . • • • • 303 
Glycerine, prepared. • • .300 



Si8 



IHDIX. 



PAGI. 

Goldfisli, to Iccp,,., . .309 
Ironrust and Ink sUms, 

to remove ...302 

Ironmould, to remove. 302 
Make Hens Lay,... ..,310 
Paint from Glass, to re- 
move «•••< 302 

Perspiration. .... .... .304 

Putty or Paint,to8often.3io 
Papering Whitewashed 

Walls , 309 

Remove Bottle Stoppers.310 
Remove Di^colorations 

from Bruises .303 

Rats and Mice, to de* 

stroy 303 

Sugar to clear. . . . .... 308 

Sink or Drain, to purify.309 

Sealing Wax. 310 

Sudden Hoarseness. . . .303 

Stove Polish 304 

Suet, to keep. 308 

Starch, cold 306 

Starch, boiled 305 

Soap, Patent 306 

Soap made with Potash.3o7' 
Soq), White Toilet .... 330 
Tar, to remove ... .^ ... . 307 
Tooth Powder (No. i). .304 
Tooth Powder (No. 3). 307 



PAGI. 

Tooth Wash ...308 

Velvet, to restore, .•••301 

ARRANGING THE 
TABLE. 

Shape and Size of Table 311 

Table Linen 3x1 

Table Ornaments 312 

SERVING FRUITS, 

Mixed Fruits. 312 

Peaches..,,, 312 

Watermelon .312 

COMBINATION OF 
DISHES. 

Beef and Veal 313 

Chickens 3 14 

Corned Beef 313 

Fish 313 

Game , 314 

Lamb and Mutton 314 

Pork 314 

Roast Goose , , . ,314 

Soups 313 

Turkeys 313 

Serving the Dinner.... 315 

TABLE ETI- 
QUETTE 316 

BILLS OF FARE.. .-^ 



ADDITIONAL RECIPES. 



Oyster Sausage 35 

Soup without Meat. , 35 
Green Corn, to can. .101 
GreenTomato Catsup. ) 14 

* Chili Sauce, 114 

Cream Dressing for 
Cabbage 124 



Angels' Food. , 190 

Fig Cake, Mrs. Burn- 
ham's 190 

Steamed Graham Pud- 
ding ...231 

Tomato Butter 267 



NOTICE. 

Our agents are averaging to earn 

$15 A WEEK 

Canvassing for SENiSE IN THE KITCHEN. 

For terms address 

A. JS. HUNTER, Publisher, 
Syracuse, N. Y. 



OPINIONS. 



From the best known cook in America, 
I have examined your book with a great deal of pleasure. I 
like it because it is plain and practical. Iulipt Corson, 
Superintendent of New York Cooking School. 

From a well knottm Author, 

Rutland, Vermont 
Your book is what you intended it to be— a home book for 
home bodies. Julia C. R. Dorr. 

From the wife of ex' Governor Douglass, of Connecticut. 

Middleiown, Cotmecticut, 
I find your book very sensible and practical. 

Mrs. Benjamin Douglass. 



From the wife of ex-Senator Conkling, 

No.jRutger Place, Utica, N. Y. 
I would heartily recommend ' Sense in the Kitchen, as a 
book well worthy of the attention of all ladies. 

Mrs. Roscob Conkling. 



Prom Utica, N. Y. 

From the wife of Hon, William H, Comstock, 
I have examined this book, and fmd it to be just what I want 
— ^a practical guide to plain cooking. 

Mrs. William H. Comstock, 4 Rutger Place. 
\ — ^— — 

Frofn the wife of the most extensive baker in Central N. Y, ' 
I have had Sense in the Kitchen in my house a year. I 
have tested its recipes, and find Ihem excellent. 

Mrs. George M. Young, 27 Rutger St. 



From the wife of Rev, Dr, Goodrich of Calvary Church, 
I like this book very much ; it calls for so few eggs, which is 
ja point worthy of consideration. Mrs. A. B. Goodrich. 



OPINIONS. dil 

From xvife of Rev. Mr, Bachtnan of ist Presbyterian Church, 
I would recommend Sbnsb in thb Kitchen as a useful guide 
to Good Economical Cooking. Mrs. R. L. Bachman. 

From the wife of Rev, Mr, Schulte, of St, Luke's, 
I have several cooking books, but this is the only one that is 
at the same time Economical and Good. Mrs. B. Schultb. 



From a lady who has used it in her home. 
I have used this book a year, and every recipe is perfectly 
reliable. The hints on arranging the Table, and for Combina- 
tion of Dishes, are particularly good. 

Mrs. J. KoHLER, 00 Varick St 

From a Boarding- House Keeper, 
Sense in the Kitchen will save its cost in butter and eggs 
alone, in a short time. I would recommend it to all Boarding- ■ 
House Keepers. Mrs. Cornelia Ferry, 

Steam Cotton Factory Boarding-House. 

From a Hotel Cook, 
As a Hotel Cook I find Sense in the Kitchen indispensa- 
ble. .For soups it is excellent, and for desserts and confection- 
ery unrivaled. C. A. Watson, 
Formerly cook at American Hotel, Utica, N, Y. 

From the wife of William R, Griffith, 
This is the most reliable Cook Book I have ever used. 

Mrs. Wm. R. Griffith. 



From Romey ^» Y* 

From the wife of Rev, Dr, Taylor^ ofist Presbyterian Church, 
The recipes are excellent The directions are given in a 
clear and practical manner, which makes the book a helpful 
companion for the housekeeper. Mrs. James H. Taylor. 

From the wife of Rev, Mr, Reynolds of 2d M, E, Church, 
This book will be of the greatest help to young housekeep- 
ers * while those of more experience cannot fall to find many 
new hints and economical suggestions. 

Mrs. W. F- Rsynofjmu 



342 OPINIONS. 

From the wife of Rev. Dr. Peabody of ist Baptist Church. 
Tfiisbook is well hamed SKH^ttiN this KitCHttN. Iii n6 
other plac6 is Sbnsb more needed. Mrs. N. N. PbabodV. 

From the w\fe of Rev, Mr. Palmer^ P. E, of Utica District. 
In Sbnsb In tHB KktcHKN the redpes Are Economical and 
dtoiible. To all who value an inviting table and healthful food 
it will be a great help. Mrs. L* L. Palmbr. 

From Etmira Sunday Telegram. 
Ladies, this is better than any charm to win a man's heaft, 
for it takes the short and sure road— via his stomach. 



From the Northern Christian Advocate. 
Perhaps we are wrong, but we believe it is the best Cook 
Book published. 

From a Hotel Cook. 
I have found in this book the very best recipe for cooking 
of all kinds. I can truly recommend it to all. 

Miss Mary Dooly, 
Pastry Cook, Globe Hotel, Syracuse, N. Y. 

FhnH a Prqfessional Cook, 

Ceddes, N. K 
''Sense lA tht Kitchen ** will save its cost tn butter and eggs 
in a very short time. I have tested its recipes and find them 
good and reliable. Mrs. E. McGowbn. 

From a Bearding House Keeper. 

Etmira, N. Y. 
I have tried several cook books and I have found yours the 
best. It has been a great help to me in cooking. 

Mrs. Ai L. Watrons. 



Cadiz, O. 
Ybur Cook Book is just what t have long: been looking tor. 
It is Reliable and Practical. Mrs. (Rev.) S. M. Bailby. 

Fall River ^ Mate. 
' t kin sure ihkt t can save the cost of the book in eggs alone 
by Using your recipeil. But thifty are not only ecohomi<^l, they 
are excellent. Mrs. ALbx. BRYsbN. 



OPINIONS. 343 

Wheeling, West Virginia. 
''Sense in the Kitchen ''is invaluable. I have had a great- 
deal of experience in cooking, but I never open the book with- 
out getting some hint that helps me make something either 
better or for less cost Mrs. M. A. Hobbs. 



Elmira, N. K 
I have used this book three years, and everything about it 
seems p^srfect. Mrs. Hattib I. Pbttingill. 

Ckazy, N. K 
I have been singing the praises of the book all day, while 
putting up fruit Mrs. H. C. I<iskb, 

Fall River , Mass. 
I thought that my " Buckeye Cookery " was .the best of all, 
but your *' Sense " is in many respects superior, and cosls less. 

Mrs. £. F. Bryson. 



Uricksville, Ohio. 
I own both " Practical Housekeeping '* (Buckeye Cookeiy) 
and also ** Sense in the Kitchen.'* I find that the recipes in th.e 
latter call for only about half as many eggs as the others. 

Mrs. Ina Cressap. 
1/ 

Ybungsiazvn, Ohio, 
I have " Sense in the Kitchen," and also " Practical House* 
keeping." I never use the latter, as the other is much more 
ecoiiomical and better suited to ordinary means. 

Mrs. W. a. Reitzbll. 



Voungsloztm, Ohio. 
I own " Sense in the Kitchen " and also " Buckeye Cookery.** 
For Plain, Practical, Economical and Nice Cooking, yours is 
4ar superior. . Mrs. Frbd. A. Ksarchbr. 



844 . KiTOHiM ]uacABAin>:&. ' 



# kV ' 



KIXCHKX MEMORANDA. ' 845 

* t * 



4 



846;% KITOHKN MEMABANDA. - ; Hfc^ ***. 

TV* 



KITCHEN MEMARiUJPA. * - 347 



848 ^ , KITCHBN MBKARANDA. 



9 



lOTCHEN ICKHARANDA. 849 



'Wd? KITCHSN iriMARAKBJL 



■^ ■"■■•-.-. 

L. : „ KITOHBK JipPMABJUaU. . ^ 861 *' 



852 KTTGHSN MSMAIUKDA. 



KITOHBN MEMAItAin)A, /l 868 



JS54 . KHQHgy IfTClf ABAKPJL 



KirCUEN MfiMARAN'PA, . . ^5 



M 



S5d KITOHBK MXICABAKDA. 



KITCHEN H£lCABANi)iL ) 



357 



.N 



S59 KITCHEN MKMAKANDA* 



KITCHEN ITEMARAKDA. , 369 



860 i:iTOHSN KIEICABANDA. 



K1TCH£N MEMAKANDA. S61 



£62 KITCUEX UEMARANOA. 



/ 

KITCHEN MEMAliANDA. 363 



8f64 KITCHEN UBMABAKDA. 



KrrOHEN MBMARANDA. 365 



4 



SCO KITCHEN MEM A KAN J) A. 



^►*, 






KITCUEK HEITARANDA. 



« 



S68 



KITCHEN MBMARANDA. 











This book is a preservation photocofjy. 

It is made in compliance with copyright law 

and produced on acid-free archival 

60# book weight paper 

which meets the requirements of 

ANSI/NISO Z39.48-1992 (permanence of ps^r) 

Preservation photocopying and binding 

by 

Acme Boold»nding 

Charlestown, Massachusetts 

a 

1999 



i 




